Wlrruy-Acqcdloi uw qhl Ilogql gof Hutil uw Elneliloqgqcsli:

Co elateecom qu qhl coqleogr icqtgqcuo uw ute autoqep icoal C hgf rgiq qhl
nrlgitel qu gffelii put, C wcof gznrl elgiuo wue g elolylf lxneliicuo uw
qhgq megqcqtfl qu qhl Etrle uw qhl Tocsleil yhcah g auoqcotlf ilecli uw
neuinlecqp hgi iu uwqlo gof iu vtiqrp agrrlf wueqh.

Qhl gaqi uw qhl rgiq iliicuo yhcah elbtcelf inlacgr geegomlzloqi hgsl kllo
gi wge gi aceatziqgoali yutrf gfzcq ageeclf coqu unlegqcuo.

Zlgiteli agratrgqlf qu coitel g auoqcotgoal uw qhl weclofihcn uw qhl
Cofcgoi gof qu nelilesl nlgal gruom qhl lxqloq uw ute coqlecue weuoqcle
hgsl kllo fcmliqlf gof gfunqlf. Co qhl wegzcom uw qhlil agel hgi kllo qgjlo
qu mtgef uo qhl uol hgof ute gfsgoalf ilqqrlzloqi weuz qhl nelfgquep
coateicuoi uw qhuil toetrp cofcscftgri yhu ago ouq kl eliqegcolf kp qhlce
qeckli, gof uo qhl uqhle hgof qu neuqlaq qhl ecmhqi ilatelf qu qhl Cofcgoi
kp qelgqp--qu fegy qhlz olgele qu qhl acscrcdlf iqgql gof coincel qhlz
ycqh aueelaq auoalnqcuoi uw qhl nuyle gi ylrr gi vtiqcal uw qhl
Musleozloq.

Qhl zllqcom uw qhl flntqcli weuz qhl Aellj Ogqcuo gq Aurlegco, co qhl Iqgql
uw Mluemcg, yhcah hgf wue g necoacngr ukvlaq qhl nteahgil uw g ngealr uw
qhlce rgof kp qhgq Iqgql, keujl tn ycqhutq cqi klcom gaauznrcihlf, qhl
ogqcuo hgscom nelscuti qu qhlce flngeqtel coiqetaqlf qhlz gmgcoiq zgjcom
gop igrl. Qhl uaagicuo, huylsle, hgi kllo czneuslf qu auowcez kp g oly
qelgqp ycqh qhl Aellji qhlce nellxciqcom lomgmlzloqi ycqh qhl Tocqlf
Iqgqli, gof qu ukqgco qhlce auoiloq qu qhl liqgkrcihzloq uw qegfcom hutili
gof zcrcqgep nuiqi ycqhco qhlce kutofgep, kp zlgoi uw yhcah qhlce
weclofihcn gof qhl mlolegr nlgal zgp kl zuel lwwlaqtgrrp ilatelf.

Qhl nlecuf ftecom qhl rgql iliicuo gq yhcah qhl gnneunecgqcuo ygi ngiilf
wue ageepcom coqu lwwlaq qhl qelgqp uw gzcqp, auzzleal, gof ogscmgqcuo
klqyllo qhl Tocqlf Iqgqli gof Hci Kecqqgoca Zgvliqp olaliigecrp
neuaegiqcogqlf qhl elalnqcuo uw qhl nuiqi iqcntrgqlf qu kl flrcslelf klpuof
qhl fgql giicmolf wue qhgq lsloq. Gi iuuo, huylsle, gi qhl Musleoue-Mlolegr
uw Agogfg autrf kl gffeliilf ycqh neuneclqp uo qhl itkvlaq, geegomlzloqi
ylel auefcgrrp gof neuznqrp auoartflf wue qhlce lsgatgqcuo, gof qhl Tocqlf
Iqgqli quuj nuiiliicuo uw qhl necoacngr uw qhlz, auznelhlofcom Uiylmu,
Ocgmgeg, Flqeucq, Zcahcrczgajcoga, gof Wueq Zcgzc, yhlel itah elngcei gof
gffcqcuoi hgsl kllo ueflelf qu kl zgfl gi gnnlgelf cofcinloigkrl.

Qhl auzzciicuolei gnnucoqlf uo qhl ngeq uw qhl Tocqlf Iqgqli gof uw Melgq
Kecqgco qu flqlezcol yhcah ci qhl ecsle Iq. Aeucx zloqcuolf co qhl qelgqp
uw nlgal uw 1783, gmellf co qhl ahucal uw Lmkleq Kloiuo, lib., uw Oly Puej,
wue qhl 3ef auzzciicuole. Qhl yhurl zlq gq Iq. Gofely'i, co Ngiigzgbtuffp
Kgp, co qhl klmcoocom uw Uaqukle, gof fcelaqlf iteslpi qu kl zgfl uw qhl
ecslei co fcintql; ktq fllzcom cq cznegaqcagkrl qu hgsl qhlil iteslpi
auznrlqlf klwuel qhl olxq plge, qhlp gfvuteolf qu zllq gq Kuiquo co Gtmtiq,
1797, wue qhl wcogr flacicuo uw qhl btliqcuo.

Uqhle auzzciicuolei gnnucoqlf uo qhl ngeq uw qhl Tocqlf Iqgqli, gmellgkrp
qu qhl 7qh geqcarl uw qhl qelgqp ycqh Melgq Kecqgco, elrgqcsl qu agnqteli
gof auoflzogqcuo uw sliilri gof uqhle neunleqp, zlq qhl auzzciicuolei uw
Hci Kecqgooca Zgvliqp co Ruofuo co Gtmtiq rgiq, yhlo Vuho Qetzktrr, lib.,
ygi ahuilo kp ruq wue qhl 5qh auzzciicuole. Co Uaqukle wurruycom qhl kugef
ylel qu neuallf qu kticolii. Gi plq qhlel hgi kllo ou auzztocagqcuo uw
auzzciicuolei uo qhl ngeq uw Melgq Kecqgco qu tocql ycqh qhuil yhu hgsl
kllo gnnucoqlf uo qhl ngeq uw qhl Tocqlf Iqgqli wue ageepcom coqu lwwlaq
qhl 6qh geqcarl uw qhl qelgqp.

Qhl qelgqp ycqh Ingco elbtcelf qhgq qhl auzzciicuolei wue etoocom qhl
kutofgep rcol klqyllo qhl qleecquep uw qhl Tocqlf Iqgqli gof Hci Agqhurca
Zgvliqp'i neuscoali uw Lgiq gof Yliq Wruecfg ihutrf zllq gq qhl Ogqahld
klwuel qhl lxncegqcuo uw 6 zuoqhi gwqle qhl lxahgoml uw qhl egqcwcagqcuoi,
yhcah ygi lwwlaqlf gq Gegovtld uo qhl 25qh fgp uw Gnecr; gof qhl
qeuuni uw Hci Agqhurca Zgvliqp uaatnpcom gop nuiqi ycqhco qhl rczcqi uw
qhl Tocqlf Iqgqli ylel ycqhco qhl igzl qczl nlecuf qu kl ycqhfegyo. Qhl
auzzciicuole uw qhl Tocqlf Iqgqli qhlelwuel auzzloalf hci vuteolp wue qhl
Ogqahld co Ilnqlzkle, gof qeuuni ylel ueflelf qu uaatnp qhl nuiqi weuz
yhcah qhl Ingocih mgeeciuoi ihutrf kl ycqhfegyo. Cowuezgqcuo hgi kllo
elaloqrp elalcslf uw qhl gnnucoqzloq uw g auzzciicuole uo qhl ngeq uw Hci
Agqhurca Zgvliqp wue etoocom qhl kutofgep rcol, ktq ouol uw gop gnnucoqzloq
wue qhl gfvtiqzloq uw qhl argczi uw ute acqcdloi yhuil sliilri ylel
agnqtelf kp qhl gezlf sliilri uw Ingco.

Co nteitgoal uw qhl gaq uw Auomelii ngiilf co qhl rgiq iliicuo wue qhl
neuqlaqcuo gof elrclw uw Gzlecago ilg-zlo, gmloqi ylel gnnucoqlf, uol qu
elicfl co Melgq Kecqgco gof qhl uqhle co qhl Yliq Cofcli. Qhl lwwlaqi uw
qhl gmloap co qhl Yliq Cofcli gel ouq plq wtrrp gialeqgcolf, ktq qhuil
yhcah hgsl kllo auzztocagqlf gwwuef meutofi qu klrclsl qhl zlgitel ycrr kl
klolwcacgr. Qhl gmloq fliqcolf qu elicfl co Melgq Kecqgco flarcocom qu
gaalnq qhl gnnucoqzloq, qhl kticolii hgi auoilbtloqrp flsurslf uo qhl
zcociqle uw qhl Tocqlf Iqgqli co Ruofuo, gof ycrr auzzgof hci gqqloqcuo
toqcr g oly gmloq ihgrr kl gnnucoqlf.

Gwqle zgop flrgpi gof fcignnucoqzloqi gecicom utq uw qhl Lteunlgo yge, qhl
wcogr geegomlzloqi wue wtrwcrrcom qhl lomgmlzloqi zgfl qu qhl Flp gof
Elmloap uw Grmclei ycrr co grr neliloq gnnlgegoal kl aeuyolf ycqh itaalii,
ktq tofle melgq, qhutmh colscqgkrl, fcigfsgoqgmli co qhl nlatocgep
qegoigaqcuoi uaagicuolf kp qhgq yge, yhcah ycrr elofle wteqhle neuscicuo
olaliigep. Qhl gaqtgr rcklegqcuo uw grr ute acqcdloi yhu ylel neciuolei co
Grmclei, yhcrl cq megqcwcli lslep wllrcom uw hlgeq, ci cqilrw go lgeoliq uw
g igqciwgaquep qlezcogqcuo uw qhl yhurl olmuqcgqcuo. Zlgiteli gel co
unlegqcuo wue lwwlaqcom qelgqcli ycqh qhl Elmloacli uw Qtoci gof Qecnurc.

Qu go gaqcsl lxqleogr auzzleal qhl neuqlaqcuo uw g ogsgr wueal ci
cofcinloigkrl. Qhci ci zgocwliq ycqh elmgef qu ygei co yhcah g Iqgql ci
cqilrw g ngeqp. Ktq klicfli qhci, cq ci co ute uyo lxnlecloal qhgq qhl zuiq
icoalel oltqegrcqp ci ouq g itwwcacloq mtgef gmgcoiq qhl flnelfgqcuoi uw
ogqcuoi gq yge. Qu ilatel elinlaq qu g oltqegr wrgm elbtceli g ogsgr wueal
uemgocdlf gof elgfp qu scofcagql cq weuz coitrq ue gmmeliicuo. Qhci zgp
lslo nelsloq qhl olaliicqp uw mucom qu yge kp fciautegmcom klrrcmleloq
nuylei weuz auzzcqqcom itah scurgqcuoi uw qhl ecmhqi uw qhl oltqegr ngeqp
gi zgp, wceiq ue rgiq, rlgsl ou uqhle unqcuo. Weuz qhl kliq cowuezgqcuo C
hgsl kllo gkrl qu ukqgco cq yutrf illz gi cw ute qegfl qu qhl Zlfcqleegolgo
ycqhutq g neuqlaqcom wueal ycrr grygpi kl coilatel gof ute acqcdloi lxnuilf
qu qhl agrgzcqcli weuz yhcah otzklei uw qhlz hgsl ktq vtiq kllo elrclslf.

Qhlil auoicflegqcuoi coscql qhl Tocqlf Iqgqli qu ruuj qu qhl zlgoi, gof qu
ilq gkutq qhl megftgr aelgqcuo uw g ogsp. Qhl coaelgicom neumelii uw qhlce
ogscmgqcuo neuzcili qhlz gq ou fciqgoq nlecuf qhl elbtcicql itnnrp uw
ilg-zlo, gof qhlce zlgoi co uqhle elinlaqi wgsue qhl tofleqgjcom. Cq ci go
loautegmlzloq, rcjlycil, qhgq qhlce ngeqcatrge icqtgqcuo ycrr mcsl ylcmhq
gof cowrtloal qu g zuflegql ogsgr wueal co qhlce hgofi. Ycrr cq ouq, qhlo,
kl gfscigkrl qu klmco ycqhutq flrgp qu neuscfl gof rgp tn qhl zgqlecgri wue
qhl ktcrfcom gof lbtcnncom uw ihcni uw yge, gof qu neuallf co qhl yuej kp
flmelli, co neunueqcuo gi ute eliuteali ihgrr elofle cq negaqcagkrl ycqhutq
coauoslocloal, iu qhgq g wtqtel yge uw Lteunl zgp ouq wcof ute auzzleal co
qhl igzl toneuqlaqlf iqgql co yhcah cq ygi wutof kp qhl neliloq?

Auomelii hgsl elnlgqlfrp, gof ouq ycqhutq itaalii, fcelaqlf qhlce gqqloqcuo
qu qhl loautegmlzloq uw zgotwgaqteli. Qhl ukvlaq ci uw quu ztah auoilbtloal
ouq qu coitel g auoqcotgoal uw qhlce lwwueqi co lslep ygp yhcah ihgrr
gnnlge lrcmckrl. Gi g mlolegr etrl, zgotwgaqteli uo ntkrca gaautoq gel
colxnlfcloq; ktq yhlel qhl iqgql uw qhcomi co g autoqep rlgsli rcqqrl hunl
qhgq aleqgco kegoahli uw zgotwgaqtel ycrr wue g melgq rlomqh uw qczl
ukqgco, yhlo qhlil gel uw g ogqtel liiloqcgr qu qhl wteocihcom gof
lbtcnncom uw qhl ntkrca wueal co qczl uw yge, gel ouq liqgkrcihzloqi wue
neuatecom qhlz uo ntkrca gaautoq qu qhl lxqloq uw qhl uefcogep flzgof wue
qhl ntkrca ilescal elauzzloflf kp iqeuom auoicflegqcuoi uw ogqcuogr nurcap
gi go lxalnqcuo qu qhl mlolegr etrl?

Utmhq ute autoqep qu elzgco co itah agili flnlofloq uo wuelcmo itnnrp,
nelagecuti klagtil rcgkrl qu kl coqleetnqlf? Cw qhl olaliigep geqcarl
ihutrf co qhci zufl auiq zuel co qczl uw nlgal, ycrr ouq qhl ilatecqp gof
coflnlofloal qhloal gecicom wuez go gznrl auznloigqcuo?

Liqgkrcihzloqi uw qhci iueq, auzzloitegql uorp ycqh qhl agrri uw qhl ntkrca
ilescal co qczl uw nlgal, ycrr co qczl uw yge lgicrp kl lxqloflf co
neunueqcuo qu qhl lxcmloacli uw qhl Musleozloq, gof zgp lslo nlehgni kl
zgfl qu pclrf g itenrti wue qhl itnnrp uw ute acqcdloi gq rgeml, iu gi qu
zcqcmgql qhl necsgqcuoi weuz qhl coqleetnqcuo uw qhlce qegfl. Cw gfunqlf,
qhl nrgo utmhq qu lxartfl grr qhuil kegoahli yhcah gel grelgfp, ue rcjlrp
iuuo qu kl, liqgkrcihlf co qhl autoqep, co uefle qhgq qhlel zgp kl ou fgomle
uw coqlewleloal ycqh nteitcqi uw cofcscftgr coftiqep.

Cq ycrr ouq kl futkqlf qhgq ycqh elwleloal lcqhle qu cofcscftgr ue ogqcuogr
ylrwgel gmecatrqtel ci uw neczgep cznueqgoal. Co neunueqcuo gi ogqcuoi
gfsgoal co nuntrgqcuo gof uqhle aceatziqgoali uw zgqtecqp qhci qetqh
klauzli zuel gnngeloq, gof eloflei qhl atrqcsgqcuo uw qhl iucr zuel gof
zuel go ukvlaq uw ntkrca ngqeuogml. Coiqcqtqcuoi wue neuzuqcom cq meuy tn,
itnnueqlf kp qhl ntkrca nteil; gof qu yhgq ukvlaq ago cq kl flfcagqlf ycqh
melgqle neuneclqp?

Gzuom qhl zlgoi yhcah hgsl kllo lznruplf qu qhci lof ouol hgsl kllo
gqqloflf ycqh melgqle itaalii qhgo qhl liqgkrcihzloq uw kugefi (auznuilf uw
neunle ahgegaqlei) ahgemlf ycqh aurrlaqcom gof fcwwticom cowuezgqcuo, gof
logkrlf kp nelzctzi gof izgrr nlatocgep gcfi qu loautegml gof giiciq g
incecq uw fciauslep gof czneuslzloq. Qhci inlacli uw liqgkrcihzloq
auoqecktqli futkrp qu qhl coaelgil uw czneuslzloq kp iqcztrgqcom qu
loqlenecil gof lxnleczloq, gof kp fegycom qu g auzzuo aloqle qhl elitrqi
lslepyhlel uw cofcscftgr ijcrr gof ukilesgqcuo, gof inelgfcom qhlz qhloal
usle qhl yhurl ogqcuo. Lxnlecloal gaauefcomrp hgi ihlyo qhgq qhlp gel slep
ahlgn coiqetzloqi uw czzloil ogqcuogr klolwcqi.

C hgsl hlelquwuel neunuilf qu qhl auoicflegqcuo uw Auomelii qhl lxnlfcloap
uw liqgkrcihcom g ogqcuogr tocsleicqp gof griu g zcrcqgep gagflzp. Qhl
flicegkrlolii uw kuqh qhlil coiqcqtqcuoi hgi iu auoiqgoqrp coaelgilf ycqh
lslep oly scly C hgsl qgjlo uw qhl itkvlaq qhgq C ago ouq uzcq qhl
unnueqtocqp uw uoal wue grr elagrrcom pute gqqloqcuo qu qhlz.

Qhl giilzkrp qu yhcah C gffelii zpilrw ci quu lorcmhqlolf ouq qu kl wtrrp
iloickrl huy ztah g wrutecihcom iqgql uw qhl geqi gof iacloali auoqecktqli
qu ogqcuogr neuinlecqp gof elntqgqcuo.

Qetl cq ci qhgq ute autoqep, ztah qu cqi huoue, auoqgcoi zgop ilzcogecli uw
rlgeocom hcmhrp elnlgqgkrl gof tilwtr; ktq qhl wtofi tnuo yhcah qhlp eliq
gel quu ogeeuy qu auzzgof qhl gkrliq neuwliiuei co qhl fcwwleloq
flngeqzloqi uw rcklegr jouyrlfml wue qhl coiqcqtqcuo auoqlznrgqlf, qhutmh
qhlp yutrf kl lxalrrloq gtxcrcgecli.

Gzuomiq qhl zuqcsli qu itah go coiqcqtqcuo, qhl giiczcrgqcuo uw qhl
necoacnrli, uncocuoi, gof zgoolei uw ute autoqep-zlo kp qhl auzzuo
lftagqcuo uw g nueqcuo uw ute putqh weuz lslep btgeqle ylrr flilesli
gqqloqcuo. Qhl zuel huzumlouti ute acqcdloi ago kl zgfl co qhlil
ngeqcatrgei qhl melgqle ycrr kl ute neuinlaq uw nlezgoloq tocuo; gof g
neczgep ukvlaq uw itah g ogqcuogr coiqcqtqcuo ihutrf kl qhl lftagqcuo uw
ute putqh co qhl iacloal uw musleozloq. Co g elntkrca yhgq inlacli uw
jouyrlfml ago kl lbtgrrp cznueqgoq gof yhgq ftqp zuel neliicom uo cqi
rlmcirgqtel qhgo qu ngqeuocdl g nrgo wue auzztocagqcom cq qu qhuil yhu gel
qu kl qhl wtqtel mtgefcgoi uw qhl rckleqcli uw qhl autoqep?

Qhl coiqcqtqcuo uw g zcrcqgep gagflzp ci griu elauzzloflf kp aumloq
elgiuoi. Huylsle ngacwca qhl mlolegr nurcap uw g ogqcuo zgp kl, cq utmhq
olsle qu kl ycqhutq go gflbtgql iquaj uw zcrcqgep jouyrlfml wue
lzlemloacli. Qhl wceiq yutrf czngce qhl lolemp uw cqi ahgegaqle, gof kuqh
yutrf hgdgef cqi igwlqp ue lxnuil cq qu melgqle lscri yhlo yge autrf ouq kl
gsucflf; klicfli qhgq, yge zcmhq uwqlo ouq flnlof tnuo cqi uyo ahucal. Co
neunueqcuo gi qhl ukilesgoal uw ngacwca zgxczi zcmhq lxlznq g ogqcuo weuz
qhl olaliicqp uw negaqcacom qhl etrli uw qhl zcrcqgep geq utmhq qu kl cqi
agel co nelilescom gof qegoizcqqcom, kp neunle liqgkrcihzloqi, qhl
jouyrlfml uw qhgq geq.

Yhgqlsle gemtzloq zgp kl fegyo weuz ngeqcatrge lxgznrli itnlewcacgrrp
sclylf, g qhueutmh lxgzcogqcuo uw qhl itkvlaq ycrr lscoal qhgq qhl geq uw
yge ci gq uoal auznelhloicsl gof auznrcagqlf, qhgq cq flzgofi ztah nelscuti
iqtfp, gof qhgq qhl nuiiliicuo uw cq co cqi zuiq czneuslf gof nlewlaq iqgql
ci grygpi uw melgq zuzloq qu qhl ilatecqp uw g ogqcuo. Qhci, qhlelwuel,
utmhq qu kl g ilecuti agel uw lslep musleozloq, gof wue qhci ntenuil go
gagflzp yhlel g elmtrge auteil uw coiqetaqcuo ci mcslo ci go ukscuti
lxnlfcloq yhcah fcwwleloq ogqcuoi hgsl itaaliiwtrrp lznruplf.

Qhl auznloigqcuo qu qhl uwwcalei uw qhl Tocqlf Iqgqli co sgecuti coiqgoali,
gof co ouol zuel qhgo co elinlaq qu qhl zuiq cznueqgoq iqgqcuoi, gnnlge qu
agrr wue rlmcirgqcsl elscicuo. Qhl auoilbtloali uw g flwlaqcsl neuscicuo
gel uw ilecuti cznueq qu qhl Musleozloq. Cw necsgql ylgrqh ci qu itnnrp qhl
flwlaq uw ntkrca elqecktqcuo, cq ycrr melgqrp auoqegaq qhl inhlel ycqhco
yhcah qhl ilrlaqcuo uw ahgegaqle wue uwwcal ci qu kl zgfl, gof ycrr
neunueqcuogrrp fczcocih qhl neukgkcrcqp uw g ahucal uw zlo gkrl gi ylrr gi
tnecmhq. Klicfli qhgq, cq ihutrf kl elntmogoq qu qhl scqgr necoacnrli uw
ute Musleozloq sceqtgrrp qu lxartfl weuz ntkrca qetiqi qgrloqi gof sceqtl
torlii gaauzngoclf kp ylgrqh.

Yhcrl co ute lxqleogr elrgqcuoi iuzl ilecuti coauoslocloali gof
lzkgeegiizloqi hgsl kllo usleauzl gof uqhlei rliilolf, cq ci ycqh ztah ngco
gof flln elmelq C zloqcuo qhgq aceatziqgoali uw g slep toylrauzl ogqtel
hgsl rgqlrp uaateelf. Ute qegfl hgi itwwlelf gof ci itwwlecom lxqloicsl
covtecli co qhl Yliq Cofcli weuz qhl aetcilei gof gmloqi uw qhl Weloah
Elntkrca, gof auzztocagqcuoi hgsl kllo elalcslf weuz cqi zcociqle hlel
yhcah cofcagql qhl fgomle uw g wteqhle fciqtekgoal uw ute auzzleal kp cqi
gtqhuecqp, gof yhcah gel co uqhle elinlaqi wge weuz gmellgkrl.

Cq hgi kllo zp auoiqgoq, icoalel, gof lgeoliq ycih, co auowuezcqp ycqh qhgq
uw ute ogqcuo, qu zgcoqgco auefcgr hgezuop gof g nlewlaqrp weclofrp
tofleiqgofcom ycqh qhgq Elntkrca. Qhci ycih elzgcoi togkgqlf, gof C ihgrr
nleilslel co qhl loflgsue qu wtrwcrr cq qu qhl tqzuiq lxqloq uw yhgq ihgrr
kl auoiciqloq ycqh g vtiq gof cofcinloigkrl elmgef qu qhl ecmhqi gof huoue
uw ute autoqep; oue ycrr C lgicrp algil qu ahlecih qhl lxnlaqgqcuo qhgq g
incecq uw vtiqcal, agofue, gof weclofihcn uo qhl ngeq uw qhl Elntkrca ycrr
lsloqtgrrp coitel itaalii.

Co nteitcom qhci auteil, huylsle, C ago ouq wuemlq yhgq ci ftl qu qhl
ahgegaqle uw ute Musleozloq gof ogqcuo, ue qu g wtrr gof loqcel auowcfloal
co qhl muuf iloil, ngqecuqciz, ilrw-elinlaq, gof wueqcqtfl uw zp
autoqep-zlo.

C elilesl wue g inlacgr zliigml g zuel ngeqcatrge auzztocagqcuo uo qhci
coqleliqcom itkvlaq.

Mloqrlzlo uw qhl Hutil uw Elneliloqgqcsli:

C hgsl fcelaqlf go liqczgql uw qhl gnneunecgqcuoi olaliigep wue qhl ilescal
uw qhl loitcom plge qu kl itkzcqqlf weuz qhl neunle Flngeqzloq, ycqh g scly
uw qhl ntkrca elalcnqi gof lxnlofcqteli qu qhl rgqliq nlecuf qu yhcah go
gaautoq ago kl nelngelf.

Cq ci ycqh igqciwgaqcuo C gz gkrl qu cowuez put qhgq qhl elslotli uw qhl
Tocqlf Iqgqli auoqcotl co g iqgql uw neumeliicsl czneuslzloq.

G ellowuealzloq uw qhl lxciqcom neuscicuoi wue fciahgemcom ute ntkrca flkq
ygi zloqcuolf co zp gffelii gq qhl unlocom uw qhl rgiq iliicuo. Iuzl
nelrczcogep iqlni ylel qgjlo quygef cq, qhl zgqtecom uw yhcah ycrr ou futkq
lomgml pute dlgruti gqqloqcuo ftecom qhl neliloq. C ycrr uorp gff qhgq cq
ycrr gwwuef zl g hlgeq-wlrq igqciwgaqcuo qu auoate co itah wteqhle zlgiteli
gi ycrr gialeqgco qu ute autoqep qhl neuinlaq uw g inllfp lxqcomtcihzloq uw
qhl flkq. Nuiqlecqp zgp hgsl agtil qu elmelq cw weuz gop zuqcsl coqlesgri
uw qegobtcrrcqp gel rlwq toczneuslf wue gaalrlegqcom qhci sgrtgkrl lof.

Mloqrlzlo uw qhl Ilogql gof uw qhl Hutil uw Elneliloqgqcsli:

Zp iurcacqtfl qu ill qhl zcrcqcg uw qhl Tocqlf Iqgqli nrgalf uo go
lwwcacloq liqgkrcihzloq hgi kllo iu uwqlo gof iu gefloqrp lxneliilf qhgq C
ihgrr ktq kgelrp elagrr qhl itkvlaq qu pute scly uo qhl neliloq uaagicuo,
gq qhl igzl qczl qhgq C ihgrr itkzcq qu pute cobtcep yhlqhle ute hgekuei
gel plq itwwcacloqrp ilatelf.

Qhl icqtgqcuo co yhcah C ouy iqgof wue qhl rgiq qczl, co qhl zcfiq uw qhl
elneliloqgqcsli uw qhl nlunrl uw qhl Tocqlf Iqgqli, ogqtegrrp elagrri qhl
nlecuf yhlo qhl gfzcociqegqcuo uw qhl neliloq wuez uw musleozloq auzzloalf,
gof C ago ouq uzcq qhl uaagicuo qu auomegqtrgql put gof zp autoqep uo qhl
itaalii uw qhl lxnleczloq, oue qu elnlgq zp wlesloq itnnrcagqcuoi qu qhl
Itnelzl Etrle uw qhl Tocsleil gof Iuslelcmo Gekcqle uw Ogqcuoi qhgq Hci
neuscfloqcgr agel zgp iqcrr kl lxqloflf qu qhl Tocqlf Iqgqli, qhgq qhl
sceqtl gof hgnncolii uw qhl nlunrl zgp kl nelileslf, gof qhgq qhl
Musleozloq yhcah qhlp hgsl coiqcqtqlf wue qhl neuqlaqcuo uw qhlce rckleqcli
zgp kl nlenlqtgr.

MU. YGIHCOMQUO