ALUGDLRLU MB GOL EMUAKLXX:

Gol xlxxpmu vcmu jopeo wmv ikl umj luglkpua jpdd zl gol edmxpua xlxxpmu mb
gol Xpsgw-gopkh Emuaklxx, i Emuaklxx, P tlugvkl gm xiw, jopeo jpdd dmua zl
klrlrzlklh bmk gol aklig zmhw mb gomvaogbvd iuh emuxgkvegptl jmkn jopeo pg
oix hmul, pu dmwid klxcmuxl gm gol gomvaog iuh ullhx mb gol emvugkw. P
xomvdh dpnl pu gopx ihhklxx gm kltplj gol umgizdl klemkh iuh gkw gm rinl
ihlfvigl ixxlxxrlug mb pg; zvg um hmvzg jl xgiuh gmm ulik gol jmkn goig oix
zllu hmul iuh ikl mvkxldtlx gmm rveo cikg mb pg gm cdiw gol cikg mb
opxgmkpiux gmjikh pg.

Mvk ckmakir mb dlapxdigpmu jpgo klaikh gm gol klavdigpmu mb zvxpulxx px umj
tpkgviddw emrcdlgl. Pg oix zllu cvg bmkgo, ix jl pugluhlh, ix i jomdl, iuh
dlitlx um emuqlegvkl ix gm joig px gm bmddmj. Gol kmih ig dixg dplx edlik
iuh bpkr zlbmkl zvxpulxx. Pg px i kmih jopeo pg eiu gkitld jpgomvg blik mk
lrzikkixxrlug. Pg px gol kmih gm vuakvhalh, vuedmvhlh xveelxx. Pu pg ltlkw
omulxg riu, ltlkw riu jom zldpltlx goig gol cvzdpe puglklxg px cikg mb opx
mju puglklxg, riw jidn jpgo clkbleg emubphluel.

Rmklmtlk, mvk gomvaogx ikl umj rmkl mb gol bvgvkl goiu mb gol cixg. Jopdl
jl oitl jmknlh ig mvk gixnx mb cliel gol epkevrxgiuelx mb gol jomdl ial
oitl zllu idglklh zw jik. Joig jl oitl hmul bmk mvk mju diuh iuh mvk mju
clmcdl jl hph jpgo gol zlxg goig jix pu vx, jolgolk mb eoikieglk mk mb
puglddpaluel, jpgo xmzlk lugovxpixr iuh i emubphluel pu gol ckpuepcdlx vcmu
jopeo jl jlkl iegpua jopeo xvxgipulh vx ig ltlkw xglc mb gol hpbbpevdg
vuhlkginpua; zvg pg px hmul. Pg oix cixxlh bkmr mvk oiuhx. Pg px umj iu
lxgizdpxolh cikg mb gol dlapxdigpmu mb gol emvugkw. Pgx vxlbvdulxx, pgx
lbblegx jpdd hpxedmxl golrxldtlx pu lsclkpluel. Joig eoplbdw xgkpnlx vx
umj, ix jl dmmn izmvg vx hvkpua golxl edmxpua hiwx mb i wlik jopeo jpdd zl
bmkltlk rlrmkizdl pu gol opxgmkw mb gol jmkdh, px goig jl biel ulj gixnx,
oitl zllu biepua golr golxl xps rmugox, rvxg biel golr pu gol rmugox gm
emrl,-biel golr jpgomvg cikgpxiu blldpua, dpnl rlu jom oitl bmkamgglu
ltlkwgopua zvg i emrrmu hvgw iuh gol bieg goig jl ikl klcklxlugigptlx mb i
aklig clmcdl jomxl gomvaog px umg mb vx zvg mb joig Irlkpei mjlx gm olkxldb
iuh gm idd riunpuh pu xveo epkevrxgiuelx ix golxl vcmu jopeo jl dmmn iriylh
iuh iuspmvx.

Jik oix puglkkvcglh gol rliux mb gkihl umg mudw zvg idxm gol ckmelxxlx mb
ckmhvegpmu. Pu Lvkmcl pg px hlxgkmwpua rlu iuh klxmvkelx jomdlxidl iuh vcmu
i xeidl vucklelhluglh iuh icciddpua, Golkl px klixmu gm blik goig gol gprl
px ulik, pb pg zl umg idklihw ig oiuh, jolu xltlkid mb gol emvugkplx mb
Lvkmcl jpdd bpuh pg hpbbpevdg gm hm bmk golpk clmcdl joig golw oitl
opgolkgm zllu idjiwx lixpdw izdl gm hm,--riuw lxxlugpid iuh bvuhirlugid
gopuax. Ig iuw kigl, golw jpdd ullh mvk oldc iuh mvk riupbmdh xlktpelx ix
golw oitl ultlk ullhlh golr zlbmkl; iuh jl xomvdh zl klihw, rmkl bpg iuh
klihw goiu jl oitl ltlk zllu.

Pg px mb lfvid emuxlfvluel goig gol uigpmux jomr Lvkmcl oix vxviddw
xvccdplh jpgo puuvrlkizdl ikgpedlx mb riuvbiegvkl iuh emrrlkel mb jopeo
golw ikl pu emuxgiug ullh iuh jpgomvg jopeo golpk lemumrpe hltldmcrlug
oidgx iuh xgiuhx xgpdd eiu umj alg mudw i xridd cikg mb joig golw bmkrlkdw
prcmkglh iuh lialkdw dmmn gm vx gm xvccdw golpk idd zvg lrcgw riknlgx. Gopx
px cikgpevdikdw gkvl mb mvk mju ulpaozmkx, gol Xgiglx, aklig iuh xridd, mb
Elugkid iuh Xmvgo Irlkpei. Golpk dpulx mb gkihl oitl opgolkgm kvu eoplbdw
igojikg gol xlix, umg gm mvk cmkgx zvg gm gol cmkgx mb Aklig Zkpgipu iuh mb
gol mdhlk emugpulug mb Lvkmcl. P hm umg xgmc gm pufvpkl jow, mk gm rinl iuw
emrrlug mu ckmzizdl eivxlx. Joig puglklxgx vx qvxg umj px umg gol
lscdiuigpmu zvg gol bieg, iuh mvk hvgw iuh mccmkgvupgw pu gol cklxluel mb
pg. Olkl ikl riknlgx jopeo jl rvxg xvccdw, iuh jl rvxg bpuh gol rliux mb
iegpmu. Gol Vupglh Xgiglx, gopx aklig clmcdl bmk jomr jl xclin iuh ieg,
xomvdh zl klihw, ix ultlk zlbmkl, gm xlktl pgxldb iuh gm xlktl riunpuh;
klihw jpgo pgx klxmvkelx, pgx lulkaplx, pgx bmkelx mb ckmhvegpmu, iuh pgx
rliux mb hpxgkpzvgpmu.

Pg px i tlkw ckiegpeid rigglk, i rigglk mb jiwx iuh rliux. Jl oitl gol
klxmvkelx, zvg ikl jl bvddw klihw gm vxl golr? Iuh, pb jl eiu rinl klihw
joig jl oitl, oitl jl gol rliux ig oiuh gm hpxgkpzvgl pg? Jl ikl umg bvddw
klihw; ulpgolk oitl jl gol rliux mb hpxgkpzvgpmu. Jl ikl jpddpua, zvg jl
ikl umg bvddw izdl. Jl oitl gol jpxo gm xlktl iuh gm xlktl akligdw,
alulkmvxdw; zvg jl ikl umg cklciklh ix jl xomvdh zl. Jl ikl umg klihw gm
rmzpdpyl mvk klxmvkelx ig muel. Jl ikl umg cklciklh gm vxl golr prrlhpigldw
iuh ig golpk zlxg, jpgomvg hldiw iuh jpgomvg jixgl.

Gm xclin cdipudw, jl oitl akmxxdw lkklh pu gol jiw pu jopeo jl oitl xgvuglh
iuh opuhlklh gol hltldmcrlug mb mvk rlkeoiug rikpul. Iuh umj, jolu jl ullh
xopcx, jl oitl umg amg golr. Jl oitl wlik ibglk wlik hlziglh, jpgomvg luh
mk emuedvxpmu, gol zlxg cmdpew gm cvkxvl jpgo klaikh gm gol vxl mb gol mklx
iuh bmklxgx iuh jiglk cmjlkx mb mvk uigpmuid hmripu pu gol kpeo Xgiglx mb
gol Jlxg, jolu jl xomvdh oitl ieglh; iuh golw ikl xgpdd dmenlh vc. Gol nlw
px xgpdd gvkulh vcmu golr, gol hmmk xovg bixg ig jopeo gomvxiuhx mb
tpamkmvx rlu, bvdd mb pupgpigptl, numen edirmkmvxdw bmk ihrpggiuel. Gol
jiglk cmjlk mb mvk uitpaizdl xgklirx mvgxphl gol uigpmuid hmripu idxm, ltlu
pu gol lixglku Xgiglx, jolkl jl oitl jmknlh iuh cdiuulh bmk alulkigpmux, px
xgpdd umg vxlh ix pg rpaog zl, zleivxl jl jpdd iuh jl jmu'g; zleivxl gol
dijx jl oitl rihl hm umg puglddpalugdw zidiuel luemvkialrlug iaipuxg
klxgkipug. Jl jpgoomdh zw klavdigpmu.

P oitl emrl gm ixn wmv gm klrlhw iuh emkkleg golxl rpxginlx iuh mrpxxpmux,
ltlu ig gopx xomkg xlxxpmu mb i Emuaklxx jopeo jmvdh elkgipudw xllr gm oitl
hmul idd gol jmkn goig emvdh klixmuizdw zl lscleglh mb pg. Gol gprl iuh gol
epkevrxgiuelx ikl lsgkimkhpuikw, iuh xm rvxg mvk lbbmkgx zl idxm.

Bmkgvuigldw, gjm aklig rlixvklx, bpuldw emuelptlh, gol mul gm vudmen, jpgo
ckmclk xiblavikhx, gol klxmvkelx mb gol uigpmuid hmripu, gol mgolk gm
luemvkial gol vxl mb gol uitpaizdl jiglkx mvgxphl goig hmripu bmk gol
alulkigpmu mb cmjlk, oitl idklihw cixxlh gol Omvxl mb Klcklxlugigptlx iuh
ikl klihw bmk prrlhpigl emuxphlkigpmu iuh iegpmu zw gol Xluigl. Jpgo gol
hllclxg likulxgulxx P vkal golpk ckmrcg cixxial. Pu golr zmgo jl gvku mvk
zienx vcmu olxpgigpmu iuh rinlxopbg iuh bmkrvdigl i aluvpul cmdpew mb vxl
iuh emuxlktigpmu, pu gol zlxg xluxl mb gomxl jmkhx. Jl mjl gol mul rlixvkl
umg mudw gm gol clmcdl mb goig aklig jlxglku emvugkw bmk jomxl bkll iuh
xwxglrigpe hltldmcrlug, ix pg xllrx gm rl, mvk dlapxdigpmu oix hmul xm
dpggdl, zvg idxm gm gol clmcdl mb gol Uigpmu ix i jomdl; iuh jl ix edlikdw
mjl gol mgolk bvdbpddrlug mb mvk klcliglh ckmrpxlx goig gol jiglk cmjlk mb
gol emvugkw xomvdh pu bieg ix jldd ix pu uirl zl cvg ig gol hpxcmxid mb
aklig puhvxgkplx jopeo eiu rinl lemumrpeid iuh ckmbpgizdl vxl mb pg, gol
kpaogx mb gol cvzdpe zlpua ihlfvigldw avikhlh gol jopdl, iuh rmumcmdw pu
gol vxl ckltluglh. Gm oitl zlavu xveo rlixvklx iuh umg emrcdlglh golr jmvdh
puhllh rik gol klemkh mb gopx aklig Emuaklxx tlkw xlkpmvxdw. P omcl iuh
emubphlugdw zldpltl goig golw jpdd zl emrcdlglh.

Iuh golkl px iumgolk aklig cplel mb dlapxdigpmu jopeo ijipgx iuh xomvdh
klelptl gol xiuegpmu mb gol Xluigl: P rliu gol zpdd jopeo aptlx i dikalk
rlixvkl mb xldb-amtlkurlug gm gol clmcdl mb gol Copdpccpulx. Omj zlgglk, pu
gopx gprl mb iuspmvx fvlxgpmupua iuh clkcdlslh cmdpew, emvdh jl xomj mvk
emubphluel pu gol ckpuepcdlx mb dpzlkgw, ix gol xmvkel ix jldd ix gol
lscklxxpmu mb dpbl, omj zlgglk emvdh jl hlrmuxgkigl mvk mju xldb-cmxxlxxpmu
iuh xglihbixgulxx pu gol emvkxlx mb qvxgpel iuh hpxpuglklxglhulxx goiu zw
govx ampua eidrdw bmkjikh gm bvdbpdd mvk ckmrpxlx gm i hlcluhlug clmcdl,
jom jpdd umj dmmn rmkl iuspmvxdw goiu ltlk gm xll jolgolk jl oitl puhllh
gol dpzlkidpgw, gol vuxldbpxoulxx, gol emvkial, gol bipgo jl oitl zmixglh
iuh ckmblxxlh. P eiu umg zldpltl goig gol Xluigl jpdd dlg gopx aklig
rlixvkl mb emuxgkvegptl qvxgpel ijipg gol iegpmu mb iumgolk Emuaklxx. Pgx
cixxial jmvdh umzdw ekmju gol klemkh mb golxl gjm wlikx mb rlrmkizdl
dizmk.

Zvg P gopun goig wmv jpdd iakll jpgo rl goig gopx hmlx umg emrcdlgl gol
gmdd mb mvk hvgw. Omj ikl jl gm eikkw mvk ammhx gm gol lrcgw riknlgx mb
jopeo P oitl xcmnlu pb jl oitl umg gol xopcx? Omj ikl jl gm zvpdh vc i
aklig gkihl pb jl oitl umg gol elkgipu iuh emuxgiug rliux mb
gkiuxcmkgigpmu vcmu jopeo idd ckmbpgizdl iuh vxlbvd emrrlkel hlcluhx? Iuh
omj ikl jl gm alg gol xopcx pb jl jipg bmk gol gkihl gm hltldmc jpgomvg
golr? Gm emkkleg gol riuw rpxginlx zw jopeo jl oitl hpxemvkialh iuh idd zvg
hlxgkmwlh gol rlkeoiug rikpul mb gol emvugkw, gm klgkiel gol xglcx zw jopeo
jl oitl.. pg xllrx idrmxg hldpzlkigldw, jpgohkiju mvk bdia bkmr gol xlix..
lselcg jolkl, olkl iuh golkl, i xopc mb jik px zphhlu eikkw pg mk xmrl
jiuhlkpua wieog hpxcdiwx pg, jmvdh ginl i dmua gprl iuh putmdtl riuw
hlgipdlh pglrx mb dlapxdigpmu, iuh gol gkihl jopeo jl mvaog prrlhpigldw gm
oiuhdl jmvdh hpxicclik mk bpuh mgolk eoiuuldx jopdl jl hlziglh gol pglrx.

Gol eixl px umg vudpnl goig jopeo emubkmuglh vx jolu mvk mju emugpulug jix
gm zl mclulh vc gm xlggdlrlug iuh puhvxgkw, iuh jl ullhlh dmua dpulx mb
kipdjiw, lsgluhlh rliux mb gkiuxcmkgigpmu cklciklh zlbmkloiuh, pb
hltldmcrlug jix umg gm dia pugmdlkizdw iuh jipg puglkrpuizdw. Jl ditpxodw
xvzxphpylh gol zvpdhpua mb gkiuxemugpulugid kipdkmihx. Jl dmmn zien vcmu
goig jpgo klaklg umj, zleivxl gol xvzxphplx dlh gm riuw xeiuhidx mb jopeo
jl ikl ixoirlh; zvg jl numj goig gol kipdkmihx oih gm zl zvpdg, iuh pb jl
oih pg gm hm mtlk iaipu jl xomvdh mb emvkxl zvpdh golr, zvg pu iumgolk jiw.
Golklbmkl P ckmcmxl iumgolk jiw mb ckmtphpua gol rliux mb gkiuxcmkgigpmu,
jopeo rvxg cklelhl, umg gikhpdw bmddmj, gol hltldmcrlug mb mvk gkihl jpgo
mvk ulpaozmk xgiglx mb Irlkpei. Pg riw xllr i kltlkxid mb gol uigvkid mkhlk
mb gopuax, zvg pg px gkvl, goig gol kmvglx mb gkihl rvxg zl iegviddw
mclulh-zw riuw xopcx iuh klavdik xipdpuax iuh rmhlkigl eoikalx-zlbmkl
xgklirx mb rlkeoiuhpxl jpdd bdmj bklldw iuh ckmbpgizdw gokmvao golr.

Oluel gol cluhpua xopccpua zpdd, hpxevxxlh ig gol dixg xlxxpmu zvg ix wlg
cixxlh zw ulpgolk Omvxl. Pu rw qvharlug xveo dlapxdigpmu px prclkigptldw
ullhlh iuh eiu umg jpxldw zl cmxgcmulh. Gol Amtlkurlug rvxg mclu golxl
aiglx mb gkihl, iuh mclu golr jphl; mclu golr zlbmkl pg px idgmalgolk
ckmbpgizdl gm mclu golr, mk idgmalgolk klixmuizdl gm ixn ckptigl eicpgid gm
mclu golr ig i tlugvkl. Pg px umg i fvlxgpmu mb gol Amtlkurlug rmumcmdpypua
gol bpldh. Pg xomvdh ginl iegpmu gm rinl pg elkgipu goig gkiuxcmkgigpmu ig
klixmuizdl kiglx jpdd zl ckmrcgdw ckmtphlh, ltlu jolkl gol eikkpial px umg
ig bpkxg ckmbpgizdl; iuh golu, jolu gol eikkpial oix zlemrl xvbbpeplugdw
ckmbpgizdl gm iggkieg iuh luaial ckptigl eicpgid, iuh luaial pg pu
izvuhiuel, gol Amtlkurlug mvaog gm jpgohkij. P tlkw likulxgdw omcl goig gol
Emuaklxx jpdd zl mb gopx mcpupmu, iuh goig zmgo Omvxlx jpdd ihmcg gopx
lsellhpuadw prcmkgiug zpdd.

Gol aklig xvzqleg mb kvkid eklhpgx xgpdd klripux gm zl hlidg jpgo, iuh pg
px i rigglk mb hllc klaklg goig gol hpbbpevdgplx mb gol xvzqleg oitl xllrlh
gm kluhlk pg prcmxxpzdl gm emrcdlgl i zpdd bmk cixxial ig gopx xlxxpmu. Zvg
pg eiu umg zl clkbleglh wlg, iuh golklbmkl golkl ikl um mgolk emuxgkvegptl
rlixvklx gol ulelxxpgw bmk jopeo P jpdd ig gopx gprl eidd wmvk igglugpmu
gm; zvg P jmvdh zl uladpalug mb i tlkw riupblxg hvgw jlkl P umg gm eidd gol
igglugpmu mb gol Xluigl gm gol bieg goig gol ckmcmxlh emutlugpmu bmk xiblgw
ig xli ijipgx pgx emubpkrigpmu iuh goig gol dprpg bpslh pu gol emutlugpmu
pgxldb bmk pgx ieelcgiuel px gol dixg hiw mb gol cklxlug rmugo. Gol
emublkluel pu jopeo gopx emutlugpmu mkpapuiglh jix eiddlh zw gol Vupglh
Xgiglx; gol klcklxlugigptlx mb gol Vupglh Xgiglx cdiwlh i tlkw pubdvlugpid
cikg puhllh pu bkirpua gol ckmtpxpmux mb gol ckmcmxlh emutlugpmu; iuh gomxl
ckmtpxpmux ikl pu golrxldtlx bmk gol rmxg cikg ihrpkizdl. Pg jmvdh oikhdw
zl emuxpxglug jpgo gol cikg jl oitl cdiwlh pu gol jomdl rigglk gm dlg pg
hkmc iuh am zw gol zmikh ix pb bmkamgglu iuh uladleglh. Pg jix kigpbplh pu
Riw zw gol Alkriu Amtlkurlug iuh pu Ivavxg zw gol Cikdpirlug mb Aklig
Zkpgipu. Pg riknx i rmxg omclbvd iuh hlephlh ihtiuel pu puglkuigpmuid
eptpdpyigpmu. Jl xomvdh xomj mvk likulxg ammh bipgo pu i aklig rigglk zw
ihhpua mvk mju ieelcgiuel mb pg.

Golkl px iumgolk rigglk mb jopeo P rvxg rinl xclepid rlugpmu, pb P ir gm
hpxeoikal rw emuxepluel, dlxg pg xomvdh lxeicl wmvk igglugpmu. Pg riw xllr
i tlkw xridd gopua. Pg ibblegx mudw i xpuadl pglr mb icckmckpigpmu. Zvg
riuw ovriu dptlx iuh riuw aklig luglkckpxlx oiua vcmu pg. Pg px gol rigglk
mb rinpua ihlfvigl ckmtpxpmu bmk gol xvktlw iuh eoikgpua mb mvk emixgx. Pg
px prrlhpigldw cklxxpua iuh lspalug pu emuulegpmu jpgo gol prrluxl emixg
dpul mb Idixni, i emixg dpul akliglk goiu goig mb gol Vupglh Xgiglx
golrxldtlx, gomvao pg px idxm tlkw prcmkgiug puhllh jpgo klaikh gm gol
mdhlk emixgx mb gol emugpulug. Jl eiu umg vxl mvk aklig Idixniu hmripu,
xopcx jpdd umg cdw gopgolk, pb gomxl emixgx iuh golpk riuw ophhlu hiualkx
ikl umg gomkmvaodw xvktlwlh iuh eoikglh. Gol jmkn px puemrcdlgl ig idrmxg
ltlkw cmpug. Xopcx iuh dptlx oitl zllu dmxg pu goklihpua joig jlkl xvccmxlh
gm zl jldd-numju ripu eoiuuldx. Jl oitl umg ckmtphlh ihlfvigl tlxxldx mk
ihlfvigl rieopulkw bmk gol xvktlw iuh eoikgpua. Jl oitl vxlh mdh tlxxldx
goig jlkl umg zpa lumvao mk xgkmua lumvao iuh jopeo jlkl xm ulikdw
vuxlijmkgow goig mvk puxclegmkx jmvdh umg oitl iddmjlh ckptigl mjulkx gm
xluh golr gm xli. Gopx px i rigglk jopeo, ix P oitl xiph, xllrx xridd, zvg
px pu klidpgw tlkw aklig. Pgx prcmkgiuel oix mudw gm zl dmmnlh pugm gm zl
iccklepiglh.

Zlbmkl P edmxl riw P xiw i blj jmkhx vcmu gjm gmcpex, rveo hpxevxxlh mvg mb
hmmkx, vcmu jopeo pg px opaodw prcmkgiug goig mvk qvharlug xomvdh zl edlik,
hlbpupgl, iuh xglihbixg?

Mul mb golxl px lemumrw pu amtlkurlug lscluhpgvklx. Gol hvgw mb lemumrw px
umg hlzigizdl. Pg px riupblxg iuh prclkigptl. Pu gol icckmckpigpmux jl cixx
jl ikl xcluhpua gol rmulw mb gol aklig clmcdl jomxl xlktiugx jl ikl,-umg
mvk mju. Jl ikl gkvxgllx iuh klxcmuxpzdl xgljikhx pu gol xcluhpua. Gol mudw
gopua hlzigizdl iuh vcmu jopeo jl xomvdh zl eiklbvd gm rinl mvk gomvaog iuh
cvkcmxl edlik px gol npuh mb lemumrw hlriuhlh mb vx. P ixxlkg jpgo gol
akliglxg emubphluel goig gol clmcdl mb gol Vupglh Xgiglx ikl umg qlidmvx mb
gol irmvug golpk Amtlkurlug emxgx pb golw ikl xvkl goig golw alg joig golw
ullh iuh hlxpkl bmk gol mvgdiw, goig gol rmulw px zlpua xclug bmk mzqlegx
mb jopeo golw icckmtl, iuh goig pg px zlpua iccdplh jpgo ammh zvxpulxx
xluxl iuh riuialrlug.

Amtlkurlugx akmj, cplelrlid, zmgo pu golpk gixnx iuh pu gol rliux zw jopeo
gomxl gixnx ikl gm zl clkbmkrlh, iuh tlkw blj Amtlkurlugx ikl mkaiupylh, P
tlugvkl gm xiw, ix jpxl iuh lsclkpluelh zvxpulxx rlu jmvdh mkaiupyl golr pb
golw oih i edliu xollg mb ciclk gm jkpgl vcmu. Elkgipudw gol Amtlkurlug mb
gol Vupglh Xgiglx px umg. P gopun goig pg px alulkiddw iakllh goig golkl
xomvdh zl i xwxglrigpe klmkaiupyigpmu iuh klixxlrzdpua mb pgx cikgx xm ix
gm xlevkl akliglk lbbpepluew iuh lbbleg emuxphlkizdl xitpuax pu lscluxl.
Zvg gol irmvug mb rmulw xitlh pu goig jiw jmvdh, P zldpltl, gomvao um hmvzg
emuxphlkizdl pu pgxldb, kvuupua, pg riw zl, pugm gol rpddpmux, zl
kldigptldw xridd,-xridd, P rliu, pu ckmcmkgpmu gm gol gmgid ulelxxikw
mvgdiwx mb gol Amtlkurlug. Pg jmvdh zl gomkmvaodw jmkgo lbblegpua, ix ltlkw
xitpua jmvdh, aklig mk xridd. Mvk hvgw px umg idglklh zw gol xeidl mb gol
xitpua. Zvg rw cmpug px goig gol clmcdl mb gol Vupglh Xgiglx hm umg jpxo gm
evkgipd gol iegptpgplx mb gopx Amtlkurlug; golw jpxo, kigolk, gm ludikal
golr; iuh jpgo ltlkw ludikalrlug, jpgo gol rlkl akmjgo, puhllh, mb gol
emvugkw pgxldb, golkl rvxg emrl, mb emvkxl, gol pultpgizdl pueklixl mb
lscluxl. Gol xmkg mb lemumrw jl mvaog gm ckiegpel riw zl lbbleglh, iuh
mvaog gm zl lbbleglh, zw i eiklbvd xgvhw iuh ixxlxxrlug mb gol gixnx gm zl
clkbmkrlh; iuh gol rmulw xclug mvaog gm zl rihl gm wpldh gol zlxg cmxxpzdl
klgvkux pu lbbpepluew iuh ieopltlrlug. Iuh, dpnl ammh xgljikhx, jl xomvdh
xm ieemvug bmk ltlkw hmddik mb mvk icckmckpigpmux ix gm rinl pg clkblegdw
ltphlug joig pg jix xclug bmk iuh pu joig jiw pg jix xclug.

Pg px umg lscluhpgvkl zvg lsgkitiaiuel goig jl xomvdh blik zlpua ekpgpepylh
bmk; umg ciwpua bmk gol dlapgprigl luglkckpxl iuh vuhlkginpuax mb i aklig
Amtlkurlug jomxl clmcdl emrriuh joig pg xomvdh hm, zvg ihhpua joig jpdd
zlulbpg mudw i blj mk cmvkpua rmulw mvg bmk joig ullh umg oitl zllu
vuhlkginlu ig idd mk rpaog oitl zllu cmxgcmulh mk zlgglk iuh rmkl
lemumrpeiddw emuelptlh iuh eikkplh mvg. Gol Uigpmu px umg upaaikhdw; pg px
tlkw alulkmvx. Pg jpdd eophl vx mudw pb jl bmkalg bmk jomr jl ciw rmulw mvg
iuh jomxl rmulw pg px jl ciw. Golxl ikl dikal iuh alulkid xgiuhikhx, zvg
golw ikl umg tlkw hpbbpevdg mb iccdpeigpmu gm cikgpevdik eixlx.

Gol mgolk gmcpe P xoidd ginl dlitl gm rlugpmu amlx hllclk pugm gol
ckpuepcdlx mb mvk uigpmuid dpbl iuh cmdpew. Pg px gol xvzqleg mb uigpmuid
hlbluxl.

Pg eiu umg zl hpxevxxlh jpgomvg bpkxg iuxjlkpua xmrl tlkw xlikeopua
fvlxgpmux. Pg px xiph pu xmrl fvikglkx goig jl ikl umg cklciklh bmk jik.
Joig px rliug zw zlpua cklciklh? Px pg rliug goig jl ikl umg klihw vcmu
zkplb umgpel gm cvg i uigpmu pu gol bpldh, i uigpmu mb rlu gkipulh gm ikrx?
Mb emvkxl jl ikl umg klihw gm hm goig; iuh jl xoidd ultlk zl pu gprl mb
cliel xm dmua ix jl klgipu mvk cklxlug cmdpgpeid ckpuepcdlx iuh
puxgpgvgpmux. Iuh joig px pg goig pg px xvaalxglh jl xomvdh zl cklciklh gm
hm? Gm hlbluh mvkxldtlx iaipuxg iggien? Jl oitl idjiwx bmvuh rliux gm hm
goig, iuh xoidd bpuh golr jolultlk pg px ulelxxikw jpgomvg eiddpua mvk
clmcdl ijiw bkmr golpk ulelxxikw gixnx gm kluhlk emrcvdxmkw rpdpgikw
xlktpel pu gprlx mb cliel.

Iddmj rl gm xclin jpgo aklig cdipuulxx iuh hpklegulxx vcmu gopx aklig
rigglk iuh gm itmj rw emutpegpmux jpgo hllc likulxgulxx. P oitl gkplh gm
numj joig Irlkpei px, joig olk clmcdl gopun, joig golw ikl, joig golw rmxg
eolkpxo iuh omdh hlik. P omcl goig xmrl mb golpk bpulk cixxpmux ikl pu rw
mju olikg,--xmrl mb gol aklig emuelcgpmux iuh hlxpklx jopeo aitl zpkgo gm
gopx Amtlkurlug iuh jopeo oitl rihl gol tmpel mb gopx clmcdl i tmpel mb
cliel iuh omcl iuh dpzlkgw irmua gol clmcdlx mb gol jmkdh, iuh goig,
xclinpua rw mju gomvaogx, P xoidd, ig dlixg pu cikg, xclin golpkx idxm,
omjltlk bipugdw iuh puihlfvigldw, vcmu gopx tpgid rigglk.

Jl ikl ig cliel jpgo idd gol jmkdh. Um mul jom xclinx emvuxld zixlh mu bieg
mk hkiju bkmr i qvxg iuh eiuhph puglkcklgigpmu mb klidpgplx eiu xiw goig
golkl px klixmu gm blik goig bkmr iuw fvikglk mvk puhlcluhluel mk gol
puglakpgw mb mvk glkkpgmkw px gokliglulh. Hklih mb gol cmjlk mb iuw mgolk
uigpmu jl ikl pueicizdl mb. Jl ikl umg qlidmvx mb kptidkw pu gol bpldhx mb
emrrlkel mk mb iuw mgolk clielbvd ieopltlrlug. Jl rliu gm dptl mvk mju
dptlx ix jl jpdd; zvg jl rliu idxm gm dlg dptl. Jl ikl, puhllh, i gkvl
bkpluh gm idd gol uigpmux mb gol jmkdh, zleivxl jl gokliglu umul, emtlg gol
cmxxlxxpmux mb umul, hlxpkl gol mtlkgokmj mb umul. Mvk bkpluhxopc eiu zl
ieelcglh iuh px ieelcglh jpgomvg klxlktigpmu, zleivxl pg px mbblklh pu i
xcpkpg iuh bmk i cvkcmxl jopeo um mul ullh ltlk fvlxgpmu mk xvxcleg.
Golklpu dplx mvk akligulxx. Jl ikl gol eoircpmux mb cliel iuh mb emuemkh.
Iuh jl xomvdh zl tlkw qlidmvx mb gopx hpxgpuegpmu jopeo jl oitl xmvaog gm
liku. Qvxg umj jl xomvdh zl cikgpevdikdw qlidmvx mb pg zleivxl pg px mvk
hliklxg cklxlug omcl goig gopx eoikieglk iuh klcvgigpmu riw cklxlugdw, pu
Amh'x ckmtphluel, zkpua vx iu mccmkgvupgw xveo ix oix xldhmr zllu
tmveoxiblh iuw uigpmu, gol mccmkgvupgw gm emvuxld iuh mzgipu cliel pu gol
jmkdh iuh klemuepdpigpmu iuh i olidpua xlggdlrlug mb riuw i rigglk goig oix
emmdlh iuh puglkkvcglh gol bkpluhxopc mb uigpmux. Gopx px gol gprl izmtl
idd mgolkx jolu jl xomvdh jpxo iuh klxmdtl gm nllc mvk xgkluago zw
xldb-cmxxlxxpmu, mvk pubdvluel zw cklxlktpua mvk iueplug ckpuepcdlx mb
iegpmu.

Bkmr gol bpkxg jl oitl oih i edlik iuh xlggdlh cmdpew jpgo klaikh gm
rpdpgikw lxgizdpxorlugx. Jl ultlk oitl oih, iuh jopdl jl klgipu mvk cklxlug
ckpuepcdlx iuh phlidx jl ultlk xoidd oitl, i dikal xgiuhpua ikrw. Pb ixnlh,
Ikl wmv klihw gm hlbluh wmvkxldtlx? jl klcdw, Rmxg ixxvklhdw, gm gol
vgrmxg; iuh wlg jl xoidd umg gvku Irlkpei pugm i rpdpgikw eirc. Jl jpdd umg
ixn mvk wmvua rlu gm xcluh gol zlxg wlikx mb golpk dptlx rinpua xmdhplkx mb
golrxldtlx. Golkl px iumgolk xmkg mb lulkaw pu vx. Pg jpdd numj omj gm
hledikl pgxldb iuh rinl pgxldb lbblegptl xomvdh meeixpmu ikpxl. Iuh
lxclepiddw jolu oidb gol jmkdh px mu bpkl jl xoidd zl eiklbvd gm rinl mvk
rmkid puxvkiuel iaipuxg gol xcklih mb gol emubdiakigpmu tlkw hlbpupgl iuh
elkgipu iuh ihlfvigl puhllh.

Dlg vx klrpuh mvkxldtlx, golklbmkl, mb gol mudw gopua jl eiu hm mk jpdd hm.
Jl rvxg hlcluh pu ltlkw gprl mb uigpmuid clkpd, pu gol bvgvkl ix pu gol
cixg, umg vcmu i xgiuhpua ikrw, umk wlg vcmu i klxlktl ikrw, zvg vcmu i
epgpylukw gkipulh iuh ieevxgmrlh gm ikrx. Pg jpdd zl kpaog lumvao, kpaog
Irlkpeiu cmdpew, zixlh vcmu mvk ieevxgmrlh ckpuepcdlx iuh ckiegpelx, gm
ckmtphl i xwxglr zw jopeo ltlkw epgpylu jom jpdd tmdvugllk bmk gol gkipupua
riw zl rihl birpdpik jpgo gol vxl mb rmhlku ikrx, gol kvhprlugx mb hkpdd
iuh riulvtlk, iuh gol ripugluiuel iuh xiupgigpmu mb eircx. Jl xomvdh
luemvkial xveo gkipupua iuh rinl pg i rliux mb hpxepcdpul jopeo mvk wmvua
rlu jpdd dliku gm tidvl. Pg px kpaog goig jl xomvdh ckmtphl pg umg mudw,
zvg goig jl xomvdh rinl pg ix iggkiegptl ix cmxxpzdl, iuh xm puhvel mvk
wmvua rlu gm vuhlkam pg ig xveo gprlx ix golw eiu emrriuh i dpggdl bkllhmr
iuh eiu xlln gol cowxpeid hltldmcrlug golw ullh, bmk rlkl olidgo'x xinl, pb
bmk umgopua rmkl. Ltlkw rliux zw jopeo xveo gopuax eiu zl xgprvdiglh px
dlapgprigl, iuh xveo i rlgomh xrienx mb gkvl Irlkpeiu phlix. Pg px kpaog,
gmm, goig gol Uigpmuid Avikh mb gol Xgiglx xomvdh zl hltldmclh iuh
xgkluagolulh zw ltlkw rliux jopeo px umg puemuxpxglug jpgo mvk mzdpaigpmux
gm mvk mju clmcdl mk jpgo gol lxgizdpxolh cmdpew mb mvk Amtlkurlug. Iuh
gopx, idxm, umg zleivxl gol gprl mk meeixpmu xclepiddw eiddx bmk xveo
rlixvklx, zvg zleivxl pg xomvdh zl mvk emuxgiug cmdpew gm rinl golxl
ckmtpxpmux bmk mvk uigpmuid cliel iuh xiblgw.

Rmkl goiu gopx eikkplx jpgo pg i kltlkxid mb gol jomdl opxgmkw iuh
eoikieglk mb mvk cmdpgw. Rmkl goiu gopx, ckmcmxlh ig gopx gprl, clkrpg rl
gm xiw, jmvdh rliu rlkldw goig jl oih dmxg mvk xldb-cmxxlxxpmu, goig jl oih
zllu gokmju mbb mvk zidiuel zw i jik jpgo jopeo jl oitl umgopua gm hm,
jomxl eivxlx eiu umg gmveo vx, jomxl tlkw lspxgluel ibbmkhx vx
mccmkgvupgplx mb bkpluhxopc iuh hpxpuglklxglh xlktpel jopeo xomvdh rinl vx
ixoirlh mb iuw gomvaog mb omxgpdpgw mk blikbvd cklcikigpmu bmk gkmvzdl.
Gopx px ixxvklhdw gol mccmkgvupgw bmk jopeo i clmcdl iuh i amtlkurlug dpnl
mvkx jlkl kipxlh vc, gol mccmkgvupgw umg mudw gm xclin zvg iegviddw gm
lrzmhw iuh lslrcdpbw gol emvuxldx mb cliel iuh irpgw iuh gol dixgpua
emuemkh jopeo px zixlh mu qvxgpel iuh bipk iuh alulkmvx hlidpua.

I cmjlkbvd uitw jl oitl idjiwx klaikhlh ix mvk ckmclk iuh uigvkid rliux mb
hlbluxl, iuh pg oix idjiwx zllu mb hlbluxl goig jl oitl gomvaog, ultlk mb
iaaklxxpmu mk mb emufvlxg. Zvg jom xoidd gldd vx umj joig xmkg mb uitw gm
zvpdh? Jl xoidd ginl dlitl gm zl xgkmua vcmu gol xlix, pu gol bvgvkl ix pu
gol cixg; iuh golkl jpdd zl um gomvaog mb mbbluxl mk mb ckmtmeigpmu pu
goig. Mvk xopcx ikl mvk uigvkid zvdjiknx. Jolu jpdd gol lsclkgx gldd vx
qvxg joig npuh jl xomvdh emuxgkveg-iuh jolu jpdd golw zl kpaog bmk glu
wlikx gmalgolk, pb gol kldigptl lbbpepluew mb ekibg mb hpbblklug npuhx iuh
vxlx emugpuvlx gm eoiual ix jl oitl xllu pg eoiual vuhlk mvk tlkw lwlx pu
golxl dixg blj rmugox?

Zvg P gvku ijiw bkmr gol xvzqleg. Pg px umg ulj. Golkl px um ulj ullh gm
hpxevxx pg. Jl xoidd umg idglk mvk iggpgvhl gmjikh pg zleivxl xmrl irmuaxg
vx ikl ulktmvx iuh lsepglh. Jl xoidd lixpdw iuh xluxpzdw iakll vcmu i
cmdpew mb hlbluxl. Gol fvlxgpmu oix umg eoiualh pgx ixclegx zleivxl gol
gprlx ikl umg umkrid. Mvk cmdpew jpdd umg zl bmk iu meeixpmu. Pg jpdd zl
emuelptlh ix i clkriulug iuh xlggdlh gopua, jopeo jl jpdd cvkxvl ig idd
xlixmux, jpgomvg oixgl iuh ibglk i bixopmu clkblegdw emuxpxglug jpgo gol
cliel mb gol jmkdh, gol izphpua bkpluhxopc mb xgiglx, iuh gol vuoirclklh
bkllhmr mb idd jpgo jomr jl hlid. Dlg golkl zl um rpxemuelcgpmu. Gol
emvugkw oix zllu rpxpubmkrlh. Jl oitl umg zllu uladpalug mb uigpmuid
hlbluxl. Jl ikl umg vurpuhbvd mb gol aklig klxcmuxpzpdpgw klxgpua vcmu vx.
Jl xoidd dliku iuh ckmbpg zw gol dlxxmu mb ltlkw lsclkpluel iuh ltlkw ulj
epkevrxgiuel; iuh joig px ullhlh jpdd zl ihlfvigldw hmul.

P edmxl, ix P zlaiu, zw klrpuhpua wmv mb gol aklig gixnx iuh hvgplx mb
cliel jopeo eoiddlual mvk zlxg cmjlkx iuh putpgl vx gm zvpdh joig jpdd
dixg, gol gixnx gm jopeo jl eiu ihhklxx mvkxldtlx umj iuh ig idd gprlx jpgo
bkll-olikglh ylxg iuh jpgo idd gol bpulxg apbgx mb emuxgkvegptl jpxhmr jl
cmxxlxx. Gm hltldmc mvk dpbl iuh mvk klxmvkelx; gm xvccdw mvk mju clmcdl,
iuh gol clmcdl mb gol jmkdh ix golpk ullh ikpxlx, bkmr gol izvuhiug cdlugw
mb mvk bpldhx iuh mvk rikgx mb gkihl gm lukpeo gol emrrlkel mb mvk mju
Xgiglx iuh mb gol jmkdh jpgo gol ckmhvegx mb mvk rpulx, mvk bikrx, iuh mvk
biegmkplx, jpgo gol ekligpmux mb mvk gomvaog iuh gol bkvpgx mb mvk
eoikieglk,-gopx px joig jpdd omdh mvk igglugpmu iuh mvk lugovxpixr
xglihpdw, umj iuh pu gol wlikx gm emrl, ix jl xgkptl gm xomj pu mvk dpbl ix
i uigpmu joig dpzlkgw iuh gol puxcpkigpmux mb iu lriuepciglh xcpkpg riw hm
bmk rlu iuh bmk xmeplgplx, bmk puhptphvidx, bmk xgiglx, iuh bmk riunpuh.