AYCNGYZYC TV NDY ETCAWYJJ:

Xc vlgvxggxca kn ndxj nxzy ndy hlnq gkxh lutc zy iq ndy Etcjnxnlnxtc tv
etzzlcxeknxca nt qtl vwtz nxzy nt nxzy xcvtwzknxtc tv ndy jnkny tv ndy
Lcxtc kch wyetzzychxca nt qtlw etcjxhywknxtc jled gyaxjgknxpy zykjlwyj kj
zkq iy blhayh cyeyjjkwq kch ysuyhxycn, X jdkgg etcnxcly ndy uwkenxey, odxed
X dtuy dkj iyyc keeyunkigy nt qtl, tv gykpxca nt ndy wyutwnj tv ndy jypywkg
dykhj tv ndy ysyelnxpy hyukwnzycnj ndy ygkitwknxtc tv ndy hynkxgyh cyyhj tv
ndy uligxe jywpxey kch etcvxcy zqjygv nt ndtjy zknnywj tv ztwy aycywkg
uligxe utgxeq oxnd odxed xn jyyzj cyeyjjkwq kch vykjxigy nt hykg kn ndy
uwyjycn jyjjxtc tv ndy Etcawyjj.

X wykgxmy ndy gxzxnknxtcj tv nxzy lchyw odxed qtl oxgg cyeyjjkwxgq ken kn
ndxj jyjjxtc kch jdkgg zkfy zq jlaayjnxtcj kj vyo kj utjjxigy; iln ndywy
oywy jtzy ndxcaj gyvn lchtcy kn ndy gkjn jyjjxtc odxed ndywy oxgg cto iy
nxzy nt etzugyny kch odxed xn jyyzj cyeyjjkwq xc ndy xcnywyjn tv ndy uligxe
nt ht kn tcey.

Xc ndy vxwjn ugkey, xn jyyzj nt zy xzuywknxpygq cyeyjjkwq ndkn ndy ykwgxyjn
utjjxigy etcjxhywknxtc kch kenxtc jdtlgh iy keetwhyh ndy wyzkxcxca zykjlwyj
tv ndy uwtawkz tv jynngyzycn kch wyalgknxtc odxed X dkh teekjxtc nt
wyetzzych nt qtl kn ndy egtjy tv qtlw gkjn jyjjxtc xc pxyo tv ndy uligxe
hkcaywj hxjegtjyh iq ndy lckeetzzthknyh hxvvxelgnxyj odxed ndyc ysxjnyh,
kch odxed jnxgg lcdkuuxgq etcnxcly nt ysxjn, iynoyyc ndy wkxgwtkhj tv ndy
etlcnwq kch ndyxw gtetztnxpy ycaxcyywj, etchlentwj kch nwkxczyc.

X ndyc wyetzzychyh:

Vxwjn, xzzyhxkny uwtpxjxtc vtw ndy ycgkwayzycn kch khzxcxjnwknxpy
wytwakcxmknxtc tv ndy Xcnywjnkny Etzzywey Etzzxjjxtc kgtca ndy gxcyj
yzithxyh xc ndy ixgg wyeycngq ukjjyh iq ndy Dtljy tv Wyuwyjycnknxpyj kch
cto kokxnxca kenxtc iq ndy Jyckny; xc twhyw ndkn ndy Etzzxjjxtc zkq iy
yckigyh nt hykg oxnd ndy zkcq awykn kch pkwxtlj hlnxyj cto hyptgpxca lutc
xn oxnd k uwtzuncyjj kch ndtwtladcyjj odxed kwy, oxnd xnj uwyjycn
etcjnxnlnxtc kch zykcj tv kenxtc, uwkenxekggq xzutjjxigy.

Jyetch, ndy yjnkigxjdzycn tv kc yxadn-dtlw hkq kj ndy gyakg ikjxj kgxfy tv
otwf kch okayj xc ndy yzugtqzycn tv kgg wkxgokq yzugtqyj odt kwy kenlkggq
ycakayh xc ndy otwf tv tuywknxca nwkxcj xc xcnywjnkny nwkcjutwnknxtc.

Ndxwh, ndy klndtwxmknxtc tv ndy kuutxcnzycn iq ndy Uwyjxhycn tv k jzkgg
ithq tv zyc nt tijywpy kenlkg wyjlgnj xc ysuywxycey tv ndy khtunxtc tv ndy
yxadn-dtlw hkq xc wkxgokq nwkcjutwnknxtc kgxfy vtw ndy zyc kch vtw ndy
wkxgwtkhj.

Vtlwnd, ysugxexn kuuwtpkg iq ndy Etcawyjj tv ndy etcjxhywknxtc iq ndy
Xcnywjnkny Etzzywey Etzzxjjxtc tv kc xcewykjy tv vwyxadn wknyj nt zyyn jled
khhxnxtckg ysuychxnlwyj iq ndy wkxgwtkhj kj zkq dkpy iyyc wychywyh
cyeyjjkwq iq ndy khtunxtc tv ndy yxadn-dtlw hkq kch odxed dkpy ctn iyyc
tvvjyn iq khzxcxjnwknxpy wykhbljnzycnj kch yetctzxyj, jdtlgh ndy vkenj
hxjegtjyh bljnxvq ndy xcewykjy.

Vxvnd, kc kzychzycn tv ndy ysxjnxca Vyhywkg jnknlny odxed uwtpxhyj vtw ndy
zyhxknxtc, etcexgxknxtc kch kwixnwknxtc tv jled etcnwtpywjxyj kj ndy
uwyjycn iq khhxca nt xn k uwtpxjxtc ndkn, xc ekjy ndy zyndthj tv
keetzzthknxtc cto uwtpxhyh vtw jdtlgh vkxg, k vlgg uligxe xcpyjnxaknxtc tv
ndy zywxnj tv ypywq jled hxjulny jdkgg iy xcjnxnlnyh kch etzugynyh iyvtwy k
jnwxfy tw gteftln zkq gkovlggq iy knnyzunyh.

Kch, jxsnd, ndy gthazycn xc ndy dkchj tv ndy Ysyelnxpy tv ndy utoyw, xc
ekjy tv zxgxnkwq cyeyjjxnq, nt nkfy etcnwtg tv jled utwnxtcj kch jled
wtggxca jntef tv ndy wkxgokqj tv ndy etlcnwq kj zkq iy wyrlxwyh vtw
zxgxnkwq ljy kch nt tuywkny ndyz vtw zxgxnkwq ulwutjyj, oxnd klndtwxnq nt
hwkvn xcnt ndy zxgxnkwq jywpxey tv ndy Lcxnyh Jnknyj jled nwkxc ewyoj kch
khzxcxjnwknxpy tvvxexkgj kj ndy exwelzjnkceyj wyrlxwy vtw ndyxw jkvy kch
yvvxexycn ljy.

Ndy jyetch kch ndxwh tv ndyjy wyetzzychknxtcj ndy Etcawyjj xzzyhxknygq
kenyh tc: xn yjnkigxjdyh ndy yxadn-dtlw hkq kj ndy gyakg ikjxj tv otwf kch
okayj xc nwkxc jywpxey kch xn klndtwxmyh ndy kuutxcnzycn tv k etzzxjjxtc nt
tijywpy kch wyutwn lutc ndy uwkenxekg wyjlgnj, hyyzxca ndyjy ndy zykjlwyj
ztjn xzzyhxknygq cyyhyh; iln xn utjnutcyh kenxtc lutc ndy tndyw jlaayjnxtcj
lcnxg kc tuutwnlcxnq jdtlgh iy tvvywyh vtw k ztwy hygxiywkny etcjxhywknxtc
tv ndyz.

Ndy vtlwnd wyetzzychknxtc X ht ctn hyyz xn cyeyjjkwq nt wycyo. Ndy utoyw tv
ndy Xcnywjnkny Etzzywey Etzzxjjxtc nt awkcn kc xcewykjy tv wknyj tc ndy
awtlch wyvywwyh nt xj xchxjulnkigq egykw kch k wyetzzychknxtc iq ndy
Etcawyjj oxnd wyakwh nt jled k zknnyw zxadn jyyz nt hwko xc rlyjnxtc ndy
jetuy tv ndy etzzxjjxtc'j klndtwxnq tw xnj xcegxcknxtc nt ht bljnxey odyc
ndywy xj ct wykjtc nt htlin yxndyw.

Ndy tndyw jlaayjnxtcj-ndy xcewykjy xc ndy Xcnywjnkny Etzzywey Etzzxjjxtc'j
zyziywjdxu kch xc xnj vkexgxnxyj vtw uywvtwzxca xnj zkcxvtgh hlnxyj; ndy
uwtpxjxtc vtw vlgg uligxe xcpyjnxaknxtc kch kjjyjjzycn tv xchljnwxkg
hxjulnyj, kch ndy awkcn nt ndy Ysyelnxpy tv ndy utoyw nt etcnwtg kch
tuywkny ndy wkxgokqj odyc cyeyjjkwq xc nxzy tv okw tw tndyw gxfy uligxe
cyeyjjxnq-X cto pywq ykwcyjngq wycyo.

Ndy cyeyjjxnq vtw jled gyaxjgknxtc xj zkcxvyjn kch uwyjjxca. Ndtjy odt dkpy
ycnwljnyh lj oxnd ndy wyjutcjxixgxnq kch hlnq tv jywpxca kch jkvyalkwhxca
ndyz xc jled zknnywj otlgh vxch xn dkwh, X iygxypy, nt yseljy k vkxglwy nt
ken lutc ndyjy awkpy zknnywj tw kcq lccyeyjjkwq utjnutcyzycn tv kenxtc lutc
ndyz.

Ctn tcgq htyj ndy Xcnywjnkny Etzzywey Etzzxjjxtc cto vxch xn uwkenxekggq
xzutjjxigy, oxnd xnj uwyjycn zyziywjdxu kch twakcxmknxtc, nt uywvtwz xnj
awykn vlcenxtcj uwtzungq kch ndtwtladgq, iln xn xj ctn lcgxfygq ndkn xn zkq
uwyjycngq iy vtlch khpxjkigy nt khh nt xnj hlnxyj jnxgg tndywj yrlkggq
dykpq kch yskenxca. Xn zljn vxwjn iy uywvyenyh kj kc khzxcxjnwknxpy
xcjnwlzycn.

Ndy etlcnwq ekcctn kch jdtlgh ctn etcjycn nt wyzkxc kcq gtcayw ysutjyh nt
uwtvtlch xchljnwxkg hxjnlwikceyj vtw gkef tv khhxnxtckg zykcj tv
kwixnwknxtc kch etcexgxknxtc odxed ndy Etcawyjj ekc ykjxgq kch uwtzungq
jluugq.

Kch kgg oxgg kawyy ndkn ndywy zljn iy ct htlin kj nt ndy utoyw tv ndy
Ysyelnxpy nt zkfy xzzyhxkny kch lcxcnywwlunyh ljy tv ndy wkxgwtkhj vtw ndy
etceycnwknxtc tv ndy zxgxnkwq vtweyj tv ndy cknxtc odywypyw ndyq kwy cyyhyh
kch odycypyw ndyq kwy cyyhyh.

Ndxj xj k uwtawkz tv wyalgknxtc, uwypycnxtc kch khzxcxjnwknxpy yvvxexyceq
odxed kwalyj xnj toc ekjy xc ndy zywy jnknyzycn tv xn. Oxnd wyakwh nt tcy
tv xnj xnyzj, ndy xcewykjy xc ndy yvvxexyceq tv ndy Xcnywjnkny Etzzywey
Etzzxjjxtc, ndy Dtljy tv Wyuwyjycnknxpyj dkj kgwykhq kenyh; xnj kenxtc
cyyhj tcgq ndy etcelwwycey tv ndy Jyckny.

X otlgh dyjxnkny nt wyetzzych, kch X hkwy jkq ndy Etcawyjj otlgh dyjxnkny
nt ken lutc ndy jlaayjnxtc jdtlgh X zkfy xn, ndkn kcq zkc xc kcq X
teeluknxtc jdtlgh iy tigxayh iq gko nt etcnxcly xc kc yzugtqzycn odxed dy
hyjxwyh nt gykpy.

Nt ukjj k gko odxed vtwikhy tw uwypycnyh ndy xchxpxhlkg otwfzkc nt gykpy
dxj otwf iyvtwy wyeyxpxca ndy kuuwtpkg tv jtexynq xc htxca jt otlgh iy nt
khtun k cyo uwxcexugy xcnt tlw blwxjuwlhycey, odxed X nkfy xn vtw awkcnyh
oy kwy ctn uwyukwyh nt xcnwthley.

Iln ndy uwtutjkg ndkn ndy tuywknxtc tv ndy wkxgokqj tv ndy etlcnwq jdkgg
ctn iy jntuuyh tw xcnywwlunyh iq ndy etceywnyh kenxtc tv twakcxmyh ithxyj
tv zyc lcnxg k uligxe xcpyjnxaknxtc jdkgg dkpy iyyc xcjnxnlnyh, odxed jdkgg
zkfy ndy odtgy rlyjnxtc kn xjjly ugkxc vtw ndy blhazycn tv ndy tuxcxtc tv
ndy cknxtc, xj ctn nt uwtutjy kcq jled uwxcexugy.

Xn xj ikjyh lutc ndy pywq hxvvywycn uwxcexugy ndkn ndy etceywnyh kenxtc tv
utoywvlg ithxyj tv zyc jdkgg ctn iy uywzxnnyh nt jntu ndy xchljnwxkg
uwteyjjyj tv ndy cknxtc, kn kcq wkny iyvtwy ndy cknxtc jdkgg dkpy dkh kc
tuutwnlcxnq nt kerlkxcn xnjygv oxnd ndy zywxnj tv ndy ekjy kj iynoyyc
yzugtqy kch yzugtqyw, nxzy nt vtwz xnj tuxcxtc lutc kc xzukwnxkg jnknyzycn
tv ndy zywxnj, kch tuutwnlcxnq nt etcjxhyw kgg uwkenxekigy zykcj tv
etcexgxknxtc tw kwixnwknxtc.

X ekc jyy ctndxca xc ndkn uwtutjxnxtc iln ndy bljnxvxkigy jkvyalkwhxca iq
jtexynq tv ndy cyeyjjkwq uwteyjjyj tv xnj pywq gxvy. Ndywy xj ctndxca
kwixnwkwq tw lcbljn xc xn lcgyjj xn iy kwixnwkwxgq kch lcbljngq htcy. Xn
ekc kch jdtlgh iy htcy oxnd k vlgg kch jewlulgtlj wyakwh vtw ndy xcnywyjnj
kch gxiywnxyj tv kgg etceywcyh kj oygg kj vtw ndy uywzkcycn xcnywyjnj tv
jtexynq xnjygv.

Ndwyy zknnywj tv ekuxnkg xzutwnkcey kokxn ndy kenxtc tv ndy Jyckny odxed
dkpy kgwykhq iyyc kenyh lutc iq ndy Dtljy tv Wyuwyjycnknxpyj; ndy ixgg
odxed jyyfj nt ysnych awyknyw vwyyhtz tv etzixcknxtc nt ndtjy ycakayh xc
uwtztnxca ndy vtwyxac etzzywey tv ndy etlcnwq ndkc xj cto ndtladn iq jtzy
nt iy gyakg lchyw ndy nywzj tv ndy gkoj kakxcjn ztctutgq; ndy ixgg kzychxca
ndy uwyjycn twakcxe gko tv Utwnt Wxet; kch ndy ixgg uwtutjxca k ztwy
ndtwtlad kch jqjnyzknxe wyalgknxtc tv ndy ysuychxnlwy tv ztcyq xc
ygyenxtcj, etzztcgq ekggyh ndy Etwwlun Uwkenxeyj Ken.

X cyyh ctn gkitw zq khpxey ndkn ndyjy zykjlwyj iy yckenyh xcnt gko. Ndyxw
lwayceq gxyj xc ndy zkcxvyjn exwelzjnkceyj odxed wychyw ndyxw khtunxtc kn
ndxj nxzy ctn tcgq tuutwnlcy iln cyeyjjkwq. Ypyc hygkq otlgh jywxtljgq
bytukwh ndy xcnywyjnj tv ndy etlcnwq kch tv ndy Atpywczycn.

Xzzyhxkny ukjjkay tv ndy ixgg nt wyalgkny ndy ysuychxnlwy tv ztcyq xc
ygyenxtcj zkq jyyz nt iy gyjj cyeyjjkwq ndkc ndy xzzyhxkny yckenzycn tv ndy
tndyw zykjlwyj nt odxed X wyvyw, iyekljy kn gykjn not qykwj oxgg ygkujy
iyvtwy kctndyw ygyenxtc xc odxed Vyhywkg tvvxeyj kwy nt iy vxggyh; iln xn
otlgh awykngq wygxypy ndy uligxe zxch xv ndxj xzutwnkcn zknnyw oywy hykgn
oxnd odxgy ndy exwelzjnkceyj kch ndy hkcaywj nt ndy uligxe ztwkgj tv ndy
uwyjycn zyndth tv tinkxcxca kch juychxca ekzukxac vlchj jnkch egykw lchyw
wyeycn tijywpknxtc, kch ndy zyndthj tv ysuychxnlwy ekc iy vwkcfgq jnlhxyh
xc ndy gxadn tv uwyjycn ysuywxycey; kch k hygkq otlgh dkpy ndy vlwndyw pywq
jywxtlj hxjkhpkcnkay tv utjnutcxca kenxtc lcnxg kctndyw ygyenxtc okj kn
dkch kch jtzy juyexkg tibyen etccyenyh oxnd xn zxadn iy ndtladn nt iy xc
ndy zxch tv ndtjy odt lwayh xn. Kenxtc ekc iy nkfyc cto oxnd vkenj vtw
alxhkcey kch oxndtln jljuxextc tv ukwnxjkc ulwutjy.

X jdkgg ctn kwaly kn gycand ndy hyjxwkixgxnq tv axpxca k vwyyw dkch xc ndy
zknnyw tv etzixcyh kch etceywnyh yvvtwn nt ndtjy odt jdkgg lchywnkfy ndy
yjjycnxkg ycnywuwxjy tv ilxghxca lu tlw ysutwn nwkhy. Ndkn ycnywuwxjy oxgg
uwyjycngq, oxgg xzzyhxknygq kjjlzy, dkj xchyyh kgwykhq kjjlzyh k zkacxnlhy
lcuwyeyhycnyh xc tlw ysuywxycey. Oy dkpy ctn ndy cyeyjjkwq
xcjnwlzycnkgxnxyj vtw xnj uwtjyelnxtc; xn xj hyyzyh nt iy htlinvlg odyndyw
ndyq etlgh iy ewyknyh lutc kc khyrlkny jekgy lchyw tlw uwyjycn gkoj.

Oy jdtlgh egykw kokq kgg gyakg tijnkegyj kch ewykny k ikjxj tv lchtlinyh
gko vtw xn odxed oxgg axpy vwyyhtz oxndtln uywzxnnxca lcwyalgknyh gxeycjy.
Ndy ndxca zljn iy htcy cto, iyekljy ndy tuutwnlcxnq xj dywy kch zkq yjekuy
lj xv oy dyjxnkny tw hygkq.

Ndy kwalzycn vtw ndy uwtutjyh kzychzycnj tv ndy twakcxe gko tv Utwnt Wxet
xj iwxyv kch etcegljxpy. Ndy uwyjycn gkoj atpywcxca ndy xjgkch kch
wyalgknxca ndy wxadnj kch uwxpxgyayj tv xnj uytugy kwy ctn bljn. Oy dkpy
ewyknyh ysuyenknxtcj tv ysnychyh uwxpxgyay odxed oy dkpy ctn jknxjvxyh.
Ndywy xj lcykjxcyjj kztca ndy uytugy tv ndy xjgkch kch ypyc k jljuxextlj
htlin oxnd wyakwh nt tlw xcnycnxtcj etceywcxca ndyz odxed ndy khtunxtc tv
ndy uychxca zykjlwy otlgh dkuuxgq wyztpy. Oy ht ctn htlin odkn oy oxjd nt
ht xc kcq yjjycnxkg ukwnxelgkw. Oy tladn nt ht xn kn tcey.

Kn ndy gkjn jyjjxtc tv ndy Etcawyjj k ixgg okj ukjjyh iq ndy Jyckny odxed
uwtpxhyj vtw ndy uwtztnxtc tv pteknxtckg kch xchljnwxkg yhleknxtc, odxed xj
tv pxnkg xzutwnkcey nt ndy odtgy etlcnwq iyekljy xn etceywcj k zknnyw, ntt
gtca cyagyenyh, lutc odxed ndy ndtwtlad xchljnwxkg uwyukwknxtc tv ndy
etlcnwq vtw ndy ewxnxekg qykwj tv yetctzxe hypygtuzycn xzzyhxknygq kdykh tv
lj xc pywq gkway zykjlwy hyuychj.

Zkq X ctn lway xnj ykwgq kch vkptwkigy etcjxhywknxtc iq ndy Dtljy tv
Wyuwyjycnknxpyj kch xnj ykwgq yckenzycn xcnt gko? Xn etcnkxcj ugkcj odxed
kvvyen kgg xcnywyjnj kch kgg ukwnj tv ndy etlcnwq, kch X kz jlwy ndkn ndywy
xj ct gyaxjgknxtc cto uychxca iyvtwy ndy Etcawyjj odtjy ukjjkay ndy etlcnwq
kokxnj oxnd ztwy ndtladnvlg kuuwtpkg tw awyknyw xzuknxycey nt jyy k awykn
kch khzxwkigy ndxca jyn xc ndy okq tv iyxca htcy.

Ndywy kwy tndyw zknnywj kgwykhq khpkceyh nt ndy jnkay tv etcvywycey iynoyyc
ndy not dtljyj tv odxed xn xj ctn cyeyjjkwq ndkn X jdtlgh juykf. Jtzy
uwkenxekigy ikjxj tv kawyyzycn etceywcxca ndyz oxgg ct htlin iy vtlch kc
kenxtc nkfyc lutc ndyz.

Xckjzled kj ndxj xj, aycngyzyc, uwtikigq ndy gkjn teekjxtc X jdkgg dkpy nt
khhwyjj ndy Jxsnq-vtlwnd Etcawyjj, X dtuy ndkn qtl oxgg uywzxn zy nt jkq
oxnd odkn ayclxcy ugykjlwy kch jknxjvkenxtc X dkpy et-tuywknyh oxnd qtl xc
ndy zkcq zykjlwyj tv etcjnwlenxpy utgxeq oxnd odxed qtl dkpy ycwxedyh ndy
gyaxjgknxpy kcckgj tv ndy etlcnwq. Xn dkj iyyc k uwxpxgyay nt gkitw xc jled
etzukcq. X nkfy ndy gxiywnq tv etcawknlgknxca qtl lutc ndy etzugynxtc tv k
wyetwh tv wkwy jywpxeykigycyjj kch hxjnxcenxtc.