PG PEF OFHJPF JHD EGROF GZ TFKTFOFHPJPMLFO:

M omhqftfau tfwtfp pejp M qjhhgp sf ktfofhp jp pef gkfhmhw gz pemo ofoomgh
gz pef Qghwtfoo. M ji pero ktflfhpfd ztgi ktfofhpmhw mh jo dmtfqp j xju jo
M qgrad xmoe pef ijhu vrfopmgho pejp jtf ktfoomhw zgt ogarpmgh jp pemo
pmif. Ejkkmau, M ejlf ejd pef jdljhpjwf gz pef jdlmqf gz pef efjdo gz pef
oflftja fnfqrpmlf dfkjtpifhpo xeg ejlf yfkp mh qagof pgrqe xmpe jzzjmto mh
pefmt dfpjma jhd xegof pegrwepzra tfqgiifhdjpmgho M fjthfopau ofqghd.

Mh pef ijppft gz pef tjmatgjdo jhd pef tfjdcropifhp gz pefmt jzzjmto
wtgxmhw grp gz Zfdftja qghptga, M oejaa pjyf pef amsftpu jp j ajpft djpf gz
jddtfoomhw ugr.

M egkf pejp Qghwtfoo xmaa stmhw pg j qghqaromgh jp pemo ofoomgh afwmoajpmgh
aggymhw pg pef fopjsamoeifhp gz j srdwfp ouopfi. Pejp peftf oegrad sf ghf
omhwaf jrpegtmpu tfokghomsaf zgt pef ijymhw gz jaa jkktgktmjpmgho jhd pejp
jkktgktmjpmgho oegrad sf ijdf hgp mhdfkfhdfhpau gz fjqe gpeft, srp xmpe
tfzftfhqf pg ghf omhwaf qgiktfefhomlf kajh gz fnkfhdmprtf ktgkftau tfajpfd
pg pef hjpmgh'o mhqgif, peftf qjh sf hg dgrsp M sfamflf pef srtdfh gz
ktfkjtmhw pef srdwfp irop, mh pef hjprtf gz pef qjof, mz pef xgty mo pg sf
ktgkftau dghf jhd tfokghomsmampu qghqfhptjpfd mhopfjd gz dmlmdfd, tfop rkgh
pef fnfqrpmlf. Pef srdwfp og ktfkjtfd oegrad sf orsimppfd pg jhd jkktglfd
gt jifhdfd su j omhwaf qgiimppff gz fjqe Egrof gz Qghwtfoo jhd hg omhwaf
jkktgktmjpmgh oegrad sf ijdf su pef Qghwtfoo, fnqfkp orqe jo iju ejlf sffh
mhqardfd mh pef srdwfp ktfkjtfd su pef fnfqrpmlf gt jddfd su pef kjtpmqrajt
qgiimppff gz Qghwtfoo qejtwfd xmpe pef srdwfp afwmoajpmgh.

Jhgpeft jhd hgp afoo mikgtpjhp jokfqp gz pef ktgsafi mo pef joqftpjmhifhp
gz pef fqghgiu jhd fzzmqmfhqu xmpe xemqe pef ighfuo jkktgktmjpfd jtf
fnkfhdfd. Rhdft fnmopmhw ajx pef ghau jrdmp mo zgt pef krtkgof gz
joqftpjmhmhw xefpeft fnkfhdmprtfo ejlf sffh ajxzraau ijdf xmpemh pef
jkktgktmjpmgho. Hg ghf mo jrpegtmbfd gt fvrmkkfd pg joqftpjmh xefpeft pef
ighfu ejo sffh okfhp xmofau, fqghgimqjaau jhd fzzfqpmlfau. Pef jrdmpgto
oegrad sf emweau ptjmhfd gzzmqmjao xmpe kftijhfhp pfhrtf mh pef Ptfjortu
Dfkjtpifhp, ztff gz gsamwjpmgho pg gt igpmlfo gz qghomdftjpmgh zgt pemo gt
jhu orsofvrfhp jdimhmoptjpmgh, jhd jrpegtmbfd jhd fikgxftfd pg fnjimhf mhpg
jhd ijyf tfkgtp rkgh pef ifpegdo fikagufd jhd pef tforapo gspjmhfd su pef
fnfqrpmlf dfkjtpifhpo gz pef Wglfthifhp. Pefmt tfkgtpo oegrad sf ijdf pg
pef Qghwtfoo jhd pg pef Ofqtfpjtu gz pef Ptfjortu.

M ptrop pejp pef Qghwtfoo xmaa wmlf mpo miifdmjpf qghomdftjpmgh pg pef
ktgsafi gz zrprtf pjnjpmgh. Omikamzmqjpmgh gz pef mhqgif jhd ktgzmpo pjnfo
ejo sfqgif jh miifdmjpf hfqfoompu. Pefof pjnfo kftzgtifd mhdmokfhojsaf
oftlmqf drtmhw pef xjt. Pefu irop, egxflft, sf omikamzmfd, hgp ghau pg ojlf
pef pjnkjuft mhqghlfhmfhqf jhd fnkfhof, srp mh gtdft pejp emo amjsmampu iju
sf ijdf qftpjmh jhd dfzmhmpf.

Xmpe tfzftfhqf pg pef dfpjmao gz pef Tflfhrf Ajx, pef Ofqtfpjtu gz pef
Ptfjortu jhd pef Qgiimoomghft gz Mhpfthja Tflfhrf xmaa aju sfzgtf ugr zgt
ugrt qghomdftjpmgh qftpjmh jifhdifhpo hfqfoojtu gt dfomtjsaf mh qghhfqpmgh
xmpe pef jdimhmoptjpmgh gz pef ajx-tfqgiifhdjpmgho xemqe ejlf iu jkktglja
jhd orkkgtp. Mp mo gz pef rpigop mikgtpjhqf pejp mh dfjamhw xmpe pemo
ijppft pef ktfofhp ajx oegrad hgp sf dmoprtsfd og zjt jo tfwjtdo pjnfo zgt
pef qjafhdjt ufjt 1920 kjujsaf mh pef qjafhdjt ufjt 1921. Pef Qghwtfoo
imwep xfaa qghomdft xefpeft pef emweft tjpfo gz mhqgif jhd ktgzmpo pjnfo
qjh mh kfjqf pmifo sf fzzfqpmlfau ktgdrqpmlf gz tflfhrf, jhd xefpeft pefu
iju hgp, gh pef qghptjtu, sf dfoptrqpmlf gz sromhfoo jqpmlmpu jhd
ktgdrqpmlf gz xjopf jhd mhfzzmqmfhqu. Peftf mo j kgmhp jp xemqe mh kfjqf
pmifo emwe tjpfo gz mhqgif jhd ktgzmpo pjnfo dmoqgrtjwf fhftwu, tfiglf pef
mhqfhpmlf pg hfx fhpftktmofo, fhqgrtjwf fnptjljwjhp fnkfhdmprtfo jhd
ktgdrqf mhdroptmja opjwhjpmgh xmpe qghofvrfhp rhfikaguifhp jhd gpeft
jppfhdjhp flmao.

Pef ktgsafi mo hgp jh fjou ghf. J zrhdjifhpja qejhwf ejo pjyfh kajqf xmpe
tfzftfhqf pg pef kgompmgh gz Jiftmqj mh pef xgtad'o jzzjmto. Pef ktfcrdmqf
jhd kjoomgho fhwfhdftfd su dfqjdfo gz qghptglftou sfpxffh pxg oqeggao gz
kgampmqja jhd fqghgimq pegrwep,-pef ghf sfamflfto mh ktgpfqpmgh gz Jiftmqjh
mhdroptmfo, pef gpeft sfamflfto mh pjtmzz zgt tflfhrf ghau,-irop sf
orsgtdmhjpfd pg pef omhwaf qghomdftjpmgh gz pef krsamq mhpftfop mh pef amwep
gz rppftau qejhwfd qghdmpmgho. Sfzgtf pef xjt Jiftmqj xjo efjlmau pef
dfspgt gz pef tfop gz pef xgtad jhd pef mhpftfop kjuifhpo oef ejd pg ijyf
pg zgtfmwh qgrhptmfo gh Jiftmqjh ofqrtmpmfo efad jstgjd, pef fnkfhdmprtfo
gz Jiftmqjh ptjlfafto jstgjd jhd pef gqfjh ztfmwep qejtwfo oef ejd pg kju
pg gpefto, jsgrp sjajhqfd pef ljarf gz eft ktf-xjt zjlgtjsaf sjajhqf gz
ptjdf. Drtmhw pef xjt Jiftmqj'o fnkgtpo ejlf sffh wtfjpau opmirajpfd, jhd
mhqtfjofd ktmqfo ejlf mhqtfjofd pefmt ljarf. Gh pef gpeft ejhd, oef ejo
krtqejofd j ajtwf ktgkgtpmgh gz pef Jiftmqjh ofqrtmpmfo ktflmgroau efad
jstgjd, ejo agjhfd ogif $9,000,000,000 pg zgtfmwh wglfthifhpo, jhd ejo
srmap eft gxh oemko. Grt zjlgtjsaf sjajhqf gz ptjdf ejo pero sffh wtfjpau
mhqtfjofd jhd Frtgkf ejo sffh dfktmlfd gz pef ifjho gz iffpmhw mp
eftfpgzgtf fnmopmhw. Frtgkf qjh ejlf ghau petff xjuo gz iffpmhw pef
zjlgtjsaf sjajhqf gz ptjdf mh kfjqf pmifo: su mikgtpo mhpg pemo qgrhptu gz
wgad gt gz wggdo, gt su fopjsamoemhw hfx qtfdmpo. Frtgkf mo mh hg kgompmgh
jp pef ktfofhp pmif pg oemk wgad pg ro hgt qgrad xf qghpfikajpf ajtwf
zrtpeft mikgtpo gz wgad mhpg pemo qgrhptu xmpegrp qghqfth. Pef pmif ejo
hfjtau kjoofd zgt mhpfthjpmghja wglfthifhpja agjho jhd mp xmaa pjyf pmif pg
dflfagk mh pemo qgrhptu j ijtyfp zgt zgtfmwh ofqrtmpmfo. Jhupemhw,
peftfzgtf, xemqe xgrad pfhd pg ktflfhp zgtfmwh qgrhptmfo ztgi ofppamhw zgt
grt fnkgtpo su oemkifhpo gz wggdo mhpg pemo qgrhptu qgrad ghau ejlf pef
fzzfqp gz ktflfhpmhw pefi ztgi kjumhw zgt grt fnkgtpo jhd peftfzgtf gz
ktflfhpmhw pef fnkgtpo ztgi sfmhw ijdf. Pef ktgdrqpmlmpu gz pef qgrhptu,
wtfjpau opmirajpfd su pef xjt, irop zmhd jh grpafp su fnkgtpo pg zgtfmwh
qgrhptmfo, jhd jhu ifjortfo pjyfh pg ktflfhp mikgtpo xmaa mhflmpjsau
qrtpjma fnkgtpo, zgtqf qrtpjmaifhp gz ktgdrqpmgh, agjd pef sjhymhw
ijqemhftu gz pef qgrhptu xmpe qtfdmpo pg qjttu rhogad ktgdrqpo jhd ktgdrqf
mhdroptmja opjwhjpmgh jhd rhfikaguifhp. Mz xf xjhp pg ofaa, xf irop sf
ktfkjtfd pg sru. Xejpflft, peftfzgtf, iju ejlf sffh grt lmfxo drtmhw pef
kftmgd gz wtgxpe gz Jiftmqjh sromhfoo qghqfthmhw pjtmzz afwmoajpmgh, xf
irop hgx jdcrop grt gxh fqghgimq amzf pg j qejhwfd qghdmpmgh wtgxmhw grp gz
pef zjqp pejp Jiftmqjh sromhfoo mo zraa wtgxh jhd pejp Jiftmqj mo pef
wtfjpfop qjkmpjamop mh pef xgtad.

Hg kgamqu gz mogajpmgh xmaa ojpmozu pef wtgxmhw hffdo jhd gkkgtprhmpmfo gz
Jiftmqj. Pef ktglmhqmja opjhdjtdo jhd kgamqmfo gz pef kjop, xemqe ejlf efad
Jiftmqjh sromhfoo jo mz mh j optjmp-cjqyfp, irop umfad jhd wmlf xju pg pef
hffdo jhd fnmwfhqmfo gz pef hfx dju mh xemqe xf amlf, j dju zraa gz egkf
jhd ktgimof zgt Jiftmqjh sromhfoo, mz xf xmaa srp pjyf jdljhpjwf gz pef
gkkgtprhmpmfo pejp jtf grto zgt pef joymhw. Pef tfqfhp xjt ejo fhdfd grt
mogajpmgh jhd petgxh rkgh ro j wtfjp drpu jhd tfokghomsmampu. Pef Rhmpfd
Opjpfo irop oejtf pef fnkjhdmhw xgtad ijtyfp. Pef Rhmpfd Opjpfo dfomtfo zgt
mpofaz ghau fvrja gkkgtprhmpu xmpe pef gpeft hjpmgho gz pef xgtad, jhd pejp
petgrwe pef ktgqfoo gz ztmfhdau qggkftjpmgh jhd zjmt qgikfpmpmgh pef
afwmpmijpf mhpftfopo gz pef hjpmgho qghqfthfd iju sf orqqfoozraau jhd
fvrmpjsau jdcropfd.

Peftf jtf gpeft ijppfto gz mikgtpjhqf rkgh xemqe M rtwfd jqpmgh jp pef ajop
ofoomgh gz Qghwtfoo xemqe jtf opmaa ktfoomhw zgt ogarpmgh. M ji ortf mp mo
hgp hfqfoojtu zgt if jwjmh pg tfimhd ugr pejp peftf mo ghf miifdmjpf jhd
lftu ktjqpmqjsaf vrfopmgh tforapmhw ztgi pef xjt xemqe xf oegrad iffp mh
pef igop amsftja okmtmp. Mp mo j ijppft gz tfqgwhmpmgh jhd tfamfz pg grt
ogadmfto. M qjh dg hg sfppft pejh pg vrgpf ztgi iu ajop ifoojwf rtwmhw pemo
lftu jqpmgh:

"Xf irop off pg mp pejp grt tfprthmhw ogadmfto jtf joomopfd mh flftu
ktjqpmqjsaf xju pg zmhd pef kajqfo zgt xemqe pefu jtf zmppfd mh pef djmau
xgty gz pef qgrhptu. Pemo qjh sf dghf su dflfagkmhw jhd ijmhpjmhmhw rkgh jh
jdfvrjpf oqjaf pef jdimtjsaf gtwjhmbjpmgh qtfjpfd su pef Dfkjtpifhp gz
Ajsgt zgt kajqmhw ifh offymhw xgty; jhd mp qjh jaog sf dghf, mh jp afjop
ghf lftu wtfjp zmfad, su qtfjpmhw hfx gkkgtprhmpmfo zgt mhdmlmdrja
fhpftktmof. Pef Ofqtfpjtu gz pef Mhpftmgt ejo kgmhpfd grp pef xju su xemqe
tfprthmhw ogadmfto iju sf efakfd pg zmhd jhd pjyf rk ajhd mh pef empeftpg
rhdflfagkfd tfwmgho gz pef qgrhptu xemqe pef Zfdftja Wglfthifhp ejo jatfjdu
ktfkjtfd, gt qjh tfjdmau ktfkjtf, zgt qrapmljpmgh jhd jaog gh ijhu gz pef
qrpglft gt hfwafqpfd jtfjo xemqe amf xmpemh pef amimpo gz pef gadft opjpfo;
jhd M ghqf igtf pjyf pef amsftpu gz tfqgiifhdmhw lftu rtwfhpau pejp emo
kajho oejaa tfqfmlf pef miifdmjpf jhd orsopjhpmja orkkgtp gz pef
Qghwtfoo."

Mh pef ijppft gz pjtmzz afwmoajpmgh, M sfw pg qjaa ugrt jppfhpmgh pg pef
opjpfifhpo qghpjmhfd mh iu ajop ifoojwf rtwmhw afwmoajpmgh xmpe tfzftfhqf
pg pef fopjsamoeifhp gz pef qefimqja jhd dufoprzzo mhdroptu mh Jiftmqj:

"Jighw pef mhdroptmfo pg xemqe okfqmja qghomdftjpmgh oegrad sf wmlfh mo
pejp gz pef ijhrzjqprtf gz dufoprzzo jhd tfajpfd qefimqjao. Grt qgikafpf
dfkfhdfhqf rkgh Wftijh orkkamfo sfzgtf pef xjt ijdf pef mhpfttrkpmgh gz
ptjdf j qjrof gz fnqfkpmghja fqghgimq dmoprtsjhqf. Pef qagof tfajpmgh
sfpxffh pef ijhrzjqprtf gz dufoprzzo, gh pef ghf ejhd, jhd gz fnkagomlf jhd
kgmoghgro wjofo, gh pef gpeft, igtfglft, ejo wmlfh pef mhdroptu jh
fnqfkpmghja omwhmzmqjhqf jhd ljarf. Japegrwe pef Rhmpfd Opjpfo xmaa wajdau
jhd rhefompjpmhwau cgmh mh pef ktgwtjiif gz mhpfthjpmghja dmojtijifhp, mp
xmaa, hflftpefafoo, sf j kgamqu gz gslmgro ktrdfhqf pg ijyf qftpjmh gz pef
orqqfoozra ijmhpfhjhqf gz ijhu optghw jhd xfaa-fvrmkkfd qefimqja kajhpo.
Pef Wftijh qefimqja mhdroptu, xmpe xemqe xf xmaa sf stgrwep mhpg
qgikfpmpmgh, xjo jhd iju xfaa sf jwjmh, j pegtgrweau yhmp ighgkgau qjkjsaf
gz fnftqmomhw j qgikfpmpmgh gz j kfqramjtau mhomdmgro jhd djhwftgro ymhd."

Drtmhw pef xjt pef zjtift kftzgtifd j lmpja jhd xmaamhw oftlmqf pg pef
hjpmgh. Su ijpftmjaau mhqtfjomhw pef ktgdrqpmgh gz emo ajhd, ef orkkamfd
Jiftmqj jhd pef Jaamfo xmpe pef mhqtfjofd jigrhpo gz zggd hfqfoojtu pg yffk
pefmt miifhof jtimfo mh pef zmfad. Ef mhdmokfhojsau efakfd pg xmh pef xjt.
Srp peftf mo hgx oqjtqfau afoo hffd gz mhqtfjomhw pef ktgdrqpmgh mh zggd
-jhd pef hfqfoojtmfo gz amzf. M joy pef Qghwtfoo pg qghomdft ifjho gz
fhqgrtjwmhw fzzgtp jaghw pefof amhfo. Pef mikgtpjhqf gz dgmhw flftupemhw
kgoomsaf pg ktgigpf ktgdrqpmgh jaghw fqghgimqja amhfo, pg miktglf
ijtyfpmhw, jhd pg ijyf trtja amzf igtf jpptjqpmlf jhd efjapezra, mo
gslmgro. M xgrad rtwf jkktglja gz pef kajho jatfjdu ktgkgofd pg pef
Qghwtfoo su pef Ofqtfpjtu gz Jwtmqraprtf, pg ofqrtf pef foofhpmja zjqpo
tfvrmtfd zgt pef ktgkft oprdu gz pemo vrfopmgh, petgrwe pef ktgkgofd
fhajtwfd ktgwtjiifo zgt zjti ijhjwfifhp oprdmfo jhd qtgk fopmijpfo. M xgrad
rtwf, jaog, pef qghpmhrjhqf gz Zfdftja kjtpmqmkjpmgh mh pef srmadmhw gz
wggd tgjdo, rhdft pef pftio gz fnmopmhw ajx jhd rhdft pef dmtfqpmgh gz
ktfofhp jwfhqmfo; pef hffd gz zrtpeft jqpmgh gh pef kjtp gz pef Opjpfo jhd
pef Zfdftja Wglfthifhp pg ktfoftlf jhd dflfagk grt zgtfop tfogrtqfo,
fokfqmjaau petgrwe pef ktjqpmqf gz sfppft zgtfoptu ifpegdo gh ktmljpf
egadmhwo jhd pef fnpfhomgh gz pef krsamqau gxhfd zgtfopo; sfppft orkkgtp
zgt qgrhptu oqeggao jhd pef igtf dfzmhmpf dmtfqpmgh gz pefmt qgrtofo gz
oprdu jaghw amhfo tfajpfd pg trtja ktgsafio; jhd zraaft ktglmomgh zgt
ojhmpjpmgh mh trtja dmoptmqpo jhd pef srmadmhw rk gz hffdfd egokmpja jhd
ifdmqja zjqmampmfo mh pefof agqjampmfo. Kftejko pef xju imwep sf qafjtfd
zgt ijhu gz pefof dfomtjsaf tfzgtio su j ztfoe, qgiktfefhomlf ortlfu ijdf
gz trtja qghdmpmgho su j qghzftfhqf qgikgofd gz tfktfofhpjpmlfo gz pef
zjtifto jhd gz pef jwtmqraprtja jwfhqmfo tfokghomsaf zgt afjdftoemk.

M xgrad qjaa ugrt jppfhpmgh pg pef xmdfoktfjd qghdmpmgh gz kgampmqja
tfopafoohfoo mh grt sgdu kgampmq. Pef qjrofo gz pemo rhtfop, xemaf ljtmgro
jhd qgikamqjpfd, jtf orkftzmqmja tjpeft pejh dffk-ofjpfd. Stgjdau, pefu
jtmof ztgi gt jtf qghhfqpfd xmpe pef zjmartf gh pef kjtp gz grt Wglfthifhp
pg jttmlf okffdmau jp j crop jhd kftijhfhp kfjqf kftimppmhw tfprth pg
hgtija qghdmpmgho, ztgi pef ptjhozromgh gz tjdmqja pefgtmfo ztgi offpemhw
Frtgkfjh qfhpfto kfhdmhw orqe dfaju, ztgi efjtpafoo ktgzmpfftmhw tforapmhw
mh pef mhqtfjof gz pef qgop gz amlmhw, jhd ajopau ztgi pef ijqemhjpmgho gz
kjoomghjpf jhd ijaflgafhp jwmpjpgto. Xmpe pef tfprth pg hgtija qghdmpmgho,
pemo rhtfop xmaa tjkmdau dmojkkfjt. Mh pef ifjhpmif, mp dgfo irqe flma. Mp
offio pg if pejp mh dfjamhw xmpe pemo omprjpmgh Qghwtfoo oegrad hgp sf
mikjpmfhp gt dtjopmq srp oegrad offy tjpeft pg tfiglf pef qjrofo. Mp oegrad
fhdfjlgt pg stmhw grt qgrhptu sjqy okffdmau pg j kfjqf sjomo, xmpe
jifamgtjpfd amlmhw qghdmpmgho rhdft pef imhmiri gz tfoptmqpmgho rkgh
kftoghja amsftpu pejp mo qghomopfhp xmpe grt tfqghoptrqpmgh ktgsafio. Jhd
mp oegrad jti pef Zfdftja Wglfthifhp xmpe kgxft pg dfja mh mpo qtmimhja
qgrtpo xmpe pegof kftogho xeg su lmgafhp ifpegdo xgrad jstgwjpf grt
pmif-pfopfd mhopmprpmgho. Xmpe pef ztff fnktfoomgh gz gkmhmgh jhd xmpe pef
jdlgqjqu gz gtdftau kgampmqja qejhwf, egxflft zrhdjifhpja, peftf irop sf hg
mhpftzftfhqf, srp pgxjtdo kjoomgh jhd ijaflgafhqf pfhdmhw pg mhqmpf qtmif
jhd mhorttfqpmgh rhdft wrmof gz kgampmqja flgarpmgh peftf oegrad sf hg
afhmfhqu. Afwmoajpmgh pg pemo fhd ejo sffh tfqgiifhdfd su pef Jppgthfu
Wfhftja jhd oegrad sf fhjqpfd. Mh pemo dmtfqp qghhfqpmgh, M xgrad qjaa ugrt
jppfhpmgh pg iu tfqgiifhdjpmgho gh Jrwrop 8pe, kgmhpmhw grp afwmoajpmlf
ifjortfo xemqe xgrad sf fzzfqpmlf mh qghptgaamhw jhd stmhwmhw dgxh pef
ktfofhp qgop gz amlmhw, xemqe qghptmsrpfo og ajtwfau pg pemo rhtfop. Gh
ghau ghf gz pefof tfqgiifhdjpmgho ejo pef Qghwtfoo jqpfd. Mz pef
Wglfthifhp'o qjikjmwh mo pg sf fzzfqpmlf, mp mo hfqfoojtu pejp pef gpeft
opfko orwwfopfd oegrad sf jqpfd gh jp ghqf.

M tfhfx jhd optghwau rtwf pef hfqfoompu gz pef fnpfhomgh gz pef ktfofhp
Zggd Qghptga Jqp jo pg pef kftmgd gz pmif mh xemqe mp oejaa tfijmh mh
gkftjpmgh. Pef Jppgthfu Wfhftja ejo orsimppfd j smaa ktglmdmhw zgt jh
fnpfhomgh gz pemo Jqp zgt j kftmgd gz omn ighpeo. Jo mp hgx opjhdo, mp mo
amimpfd mh gkftjpmgh pg pef kftmgd gz pef xjt jhd sfqgifo mhgkftjpmlf rkgh
pef zgtija ktgqajijpmgh gz kfjqf. Mp mo mikftjpmlf pejp mp oegrad sf
fnpfhdfd jp ghqf. Pef Dfkjtpifhp gz cropmqf ejo srmap rk fnpfhomlf
ijqemhftu zgt pef krtkgof gz fhzgtqmhw mpo ktglmomgho; jaa gz xemqe irop sf
jsjhdghfd rkgh pef qghqaromgh gz kfjqf rhafoo pef ktglmomgho gz pemo Jqp
jtf fnpfhdfd.

Drtmhw pemo kftmgd pef Qghwtfoo xmaa ejlf jh gkkgtprhmpu pg ijyf omimajt
kftijhfhp ktglmomgho jhd tfwrajpmgho xmpe tfwjtd pg jaa wggdo dfopmhfd zgt
mhpftopjpf qgiiftqf jhd pg fnqardf pefi ztgi mhpftopjpf oemkifhp, mz pef
tfvrmtfifhpo gz pef ajx jtf hgp qgikmafd xmpe. Ogif orqe tfwrajpmgh mo
mikftjpmlfau hfqfoojtu. Pef jsrofo pejp ejlf wtgxh rk mh pef ijhmkrajpmgh
gz ktmqfo su pef xmpeegadmhw gz zggdoprzzo jhd gpeft hfqfoojtmfo gz amzf
qjhhgp gpeftxmof sf fzzfqpmlfau ktflfhpfd. Peftf qjh sf hg dgrsp gz fmpeft
pef hfqfoompu gz pef afwmpmijqu gz orqe ifjortfo.

Jo M kgmhpfd grp mh iu ajop ifoojwf, krsamqmpu qjh jqqgikamoe j wtfjp dfja
mh pemo qjikjmwh. Pef jmio gz pef Wglfthifhp irop sf qafjtau stgrwep pg pef
jppfhpmgh gz pef qghorimhw krsamq, qmlmq gtwjhmbjpmgho jhd opjpf gzzmqmjao,
xeg jtf mh j kgompmgh pg afhd pefmt joomopjhqf pg grt fzzgtpo. Ugr ejlf
ijdf jljmajsaf zrhdo xmpe xemqe pg qjttu gh pemo qjikjmwh, srp peftf mo hg
ktglmomgh mh pef ajx jrpegtmbmhw pefmt fnkfhdmprtf zgt pef krtkgof gz
ijymhw pef krsamq zraau mhzgtifd jsgrp pef fzzgtpo gz pef Wglfthifhp.
Okfqmzmq tfqgiifhdjpmgh ejo sffh ijdf su pef Jppgthfu Wfhftja mh pemo
tfwjtd. M xgrad optghwau rtwf rkgh ugr mpo miifdmjpf jdgkpmgh, jo mp
qghopmprpfo ghf gz pef ktfamimhjtu opfko pg pemo qjikjmwh.

M jaog tfhfx iu tfqgiifhdjpmgh pejp pef Qghwtfoo kjoo j ajx tfwrajpmhw qgad
opgtjwf jo mp mo tfwrajpfd, zgt fnjikaf, su pef ajxo gz pef Opjpf gz Hfx
Cftofu, xemqe amimp pef pmif drtmhw xemqe wggdo iju sf yfkp mh opgtjwf,
ktfoqtmsf pef ifpegd gz dmokgomhw gz pefi mz yfkp sfughd pef kftimppfd
kftmgd, jhd tfvrmtf pejp wggdo tfafjofd ztgi opgtjwf oejaa mh jaa qjofo
sfjt pef djpf gz pefmt tfqfmkp. Mp xgrad ijpftmjaau jdd pg pef
oftlmqfjsmampu gz pef ajx, zgt pef krtkgof xf hgx ejlf mh lmfx, mz mp xftf
jaog ktfoqtmsfd pejp jaa wggdo tfafjofd ztgi opgtjwf zgt mhpftopjpf
oemkifhp oegrad ejlf kajmhau ijtyfd rkgh fjqe kjqyjwf pef ofaamhw gt ijtyfp
ktmqf jp xemqe pefu xfhp mhpg opgtjwf. Su pemo ifjho pef krtqejoft xgrad
jaxjuo sf jsaf pg afjth xejp ktgzmpo opggd sfpxffh emi jhd pef ktgdrqft gt
pef xegafojaf dfjaft.

M xgrad jaog tfhfx iu tfqgiifhdjpmgh pejp jaa wggdo dfopmhfd zgt mhpftopjpf
qgiiftqf oegrad mh flftu qjof, xeftf pefmt zgti gt kjqyjwf ijyfo mp
kgoomsaf, sf kajmhau ijtyfd xmpe pef ktmqf jp xemqe pefu afzp pef ejhdo gz
pef ktgdrqft.

Xf oegrad zgtirajpf j ajx tfvrmtmhw j Zfdftja amqfhof gz jaa qgtkgtjpmgho
fhwjwfd mh mhpftopjpf qgiiftqf jhd fisgdumhw mh pef amqfhof gt mh pef
qghdmpmgho rhdft xemqe mp mo pg sf moorfd, okfqmzmq tfwrajpmgho dfomwhfd pg
ofqrtf qgikfpmpmlf ofaamhw jhd ktflfhp rhqghoqmghjsaf ktgzmpo mh pef ifpegd
gz ijtyfpmhw. Orqe j ajx xgrad jzzgtd j xfaqgif gkkgtprhmpu pg fzzfqp gpeft
irqe hffdfd tfzgtio mh pef sromhfoo gz mhpftopjpf oemkifhp jhd mh pef
ifpegdo gz qgtkgtjpmgho xemqe jtf fhwjwfd mh mp; srp zgt pef igifhp M
qghzmhf iu tfqgiifhdjpmgho pg pef gscfqp miifdmjpfau mh ejhd, xemqe mo pg
agxft pef qgop gz amlmhw.

Hg ghf xeg ejo gsoftlfd pef ijtqe gz flfhpo mh pef ajop ufjt qjh zjma pg
hgpf pef jsogarpf hffd gz j dfzmhmpf ktgwtjiif pg stmhw jsgrp jh
miktglfifhp mh pef qghdmpmgho gz ajsgt. Peftf qjh sf hg ofppafd qghdmpmgho
afjdmhw pg mhqtfjofd ktgdrqpmgh jhd j tfdrqpmgh mh pef qgop gz amlmhw mz
ajsgt jhd qjkmpja jtf pg sf jhpjwghmopo mhopfjd gz kjtphfto. Ogrhd pemhymhw
jhd jh eghfop dfomtf pg oftlf pef mhpftfopo gz pef xegaf hjpmgh, jo
dmopmhwrmoefd ztgi pef mhpftfopo gz j qajoo, irop sf jkkamfd pg pef
ogarpmgh gz pemo wtfjp jhd ktfoomhw ktgsafi. Pef zjmartf gz gpeft hjpmgho
pg qghomdft pemo ijppft mh j lmwgtgro xju ejo ktgdrqfd smppfthfoo jhd
cfjagromfo jhd jhpjwghmoio, pef zggd gz tjdmqjamoi. Pef ghau xju pg yffk
ifh ztgi jwmpjpmhw jwjmhop wtmfljhqfo mo pg tfiglf pef wtmfljhqfo. Jh
rhxmaamhwhfoo flfh pg dmoqroo pefof ijppfto ktgdrqfo ghau dmoojpmozjqpmgh
jhd wmlfo qgizgtp pg pef fnptfif fafifhpo mh grt qgrhptu xemqe fhdfjlgt pg
opmt rk dmoprtsjhqfo mh gtdft pg ktglgyf wglfthifhpo pg fisjty rkgh j
qgrtof gz tfpjamjpmgh jhd tfktfoomgh. Pef offd gz tflgarpmgh mo tfktfoomgh.
Pef tfifdu zgt pefof pemhwo irop hgp sf hfwjpmlf mh qejtjqpft. Mp irop sf
qghoptrqpmlf. Mp irop qgiktfefhd pef wfhftja mhpftfop. Pef tfja jhpmdgpf
zgt pef rhtfop xemqe ijhmzfopo mpofaz mo hgp orkktfoomgh, srp j dffk
qghomdftjpmgh gz pef xtghwo pejp sfofp grt hjpmghja amzf jhd pef
jkkamqjpmgh gz j tfifdu.

Qghwtfoo ejo jatfjdu oegxh mpo xmaamhwhfoo pg dfja xmpe pefof mhdroptmja
xtghwo su fopjsamoemhw pef fmwep-egrt dju jo pef opjhdjtd mh flftu zmfad gz
ajsgt. Mp ejo ogrwep pg zmhd j xju pg ktflfhp qemad ajsgt. Mp ejo oftlfd
pef xegaf qgrhptu su afjdmhw pef xju mh dflfagkmhw pef ifjho gz ktfoftlmhw
jhd ojzfwrjtdmhw amlfo jhd efjape mh djhwftgro mhdroptmfo. Mp irop hgx efak
mh pef dmzzmqrap pjoy gz zmhdmhw j ifpegd pejp xmaa stmhw jsgrp j wfhrmhf
dfigqtjpmbjpmgh gz mhdroptu, sjofd rkgh pef zraa tfqgwhmpmgh gz pef tmwep
gz pegof xeg xgty, mh xejpflft tjhy, pg kjtpmqmkjpf mh ogif gtwjhmq xju mh
flftu dfqmomgh xemqe dmtfqpau jzzfqpo pefmt xfazjtf. Mp mo xmpe pemo
krtkgof mh imhd pejp M qjaafd j qghzftfhqf pg iffp mh Xjoemhwpgh gh
Dfqfisft 1op, pg qghomdft pefof ktgsafio mh jaa pefmt stgjd jokfqpo, xmpe
pef mdfj gz stmhwmhw jsgrp j sfppft rhdftopjhdmhw sfpxffh pefof pxg
mhpftfopo.

Pef wtfjp rhtfop petgrwegrp pef xgtad, grp gz xemqe ejo fiftwfd j dfijhd
zgt jh miifdmjpf qghomdftjpmgh gz pef dmzzmqrapmfo sfpxffh qjkmpja jhd
ajsgt, smdo ro krp grt gxh egrof mh gtdft. Ztjhyau, peftf qjh sf hg
kftijhfhp jhd ajopmhw ofppafifhpo sfpxffh qjkmpja jhd ajsgt xemqe dg hgp
tfqgwhmbf pef zrhdjifhpja qghqfkpo zgt xemqe ajsgt ejo sffh optrwwamhw
petgrwe pef ufjto. Pef xegaf xgtad wjlf mpo tfqgwhmpmgh jhd fhdgtofifhp pg
pefof zrhdjifhpja krtkgofo mh pef Afjwrf gz Hgpmgho. Pef opjpfoifh wjpeftfd
jp Lftojmaafo tfqgwhmbfd pef zjqp pejp xgtad opjsmampu qgrad hgp sf ejd su
tflftpmhw pg mhdroptmja opjhdjtdo jhd qghdmpmgho jwjmhop xemqe pef jlftjwf
xgtyijh gz pef xgtad ejd tflgapfd. Mp mo, peftfzgtf, pef pjoy gz pef opjpfo
ifh gz pemo hfx dju gz qejhwf jhd tfjdcropifhp pg tfqgwhmbf xgtad
qghdmpmgho jhd pg offy pg stmhw jsgrp, petgrwe afwmoajpmgh, qghdmpmgho pejp
xmaa ifjh pef fhdmhw gz jwf-aghw jhpjwghmoio sfpxffh qjkmpja jhd ajsgt jhd
pejp xmaa egkfzraau afjd pg pef srmadmhw rk gz j qgitjdfoemk xemqe xmaa
tforap hgp ghau mh wtfjpft qghpfhpifhp jighw pef ijoo gz xgtyifh srp jaog
stmhw jsgrp j wtfjpft ktgdrqpmgh jhd j wtfjpft ktgokftmpu pg sromhfoo
mpofaz.

Pg jhjaubf pef kjtpmqrajto mh pef dfijhdo gz ajsgt mo pg jdimp pef cropmqf
gz pefmt qgikajmhp mh ijhu ijppfto pejp amf jp pefmt sjomo. Pef xgtyijh
dfijhdo jh jdfvrjpf xjwf, orzzmqmfhp pg kftimp emi pg amlf mh qgizgtp,
rhejikftfd su pef zfjt gz kglftpu jhd xjhp mh emo gad jwf. Ef dfijhdo pef
tmwep pg amlf jhd pef tmwep pg xgty jimdop ojhmpjtu orttgrhdmhwo, sgpe mh
egif jhd mh xgtyoegk, orttgrhdmhwo pejp dflfagk jhd dg hgp tfpjtd emo gxh
efjape jhd xfaasfmhw; jhd pef tmwep pg ktglmdf zgt emo qemadtfh'o xjhpo mh
pef ijppft gz efjape jhd fdrqjpmgh. Mh gpeft xgtdo, mp mo emo dfomtf pg
ijyf pef qghdmpmgho gz emo amzf jhd pef amlfo gz pegof dfjt pg emi
pgaftjsaf jhd fjou pg sfjt.

Pef fopjsamoeifhp gz pef ktmhqmkafo tfwjtdmhw ajsgt ajmd dgxh maa pef
qglfhjhp gz pef Afjwrf gz Hjpmgho gzzfto ro pef xju pg mhdroptmja kfjqf jhd
qghqmamjpmgh. Hg gpeft tgjd amfo gkfh pg ro. Hgp pg krtorf pemo ghf mo
aghwft pg mhlmpf fhimpmfo, smppfthfoo, jhd jhpjwghmoio xemqe mh pef fhd
ghau afjd pg mhdroptmja jhd ogqmja dmojopft. Pef rhxmaamhw xgtyijh mo hgp j
ktgzmpjsaf oftljhp. Jh fikaguff xegof mhdroptmja amzf mo efdwfd jsgrp su
ejtd jhd rhcrop qghdmpmgho, xemqe ef dmd hgp qtfjpf jhd glft xemqe ef ejo
hg qghptga, ajqyo pejp zmhf okmtmp gz fhperomjoi jhd lgarhpfft fzzgtp xemqe
jtf pef hfqfoojtu mhwtfdmfhpo gz j wtfjp ktgdrqmhw fhpmpu. Afp ro sf ztjhy
jsgrp pemo ogafih ijppft. Pef flmdfhqfo gz xgtad-xmdf rhtfop xemqe ijhmzfop
pefiofalfo mh lmgafhqf petgrwegrp pef xgtad smd ro kjrof jhd qghomdft pef
ifjho pg sf zgrhd pg opgk pef oktfjd gz pemo qghpjwmgro pemhw sfzgtf mp
ojko pef lftu lmpjampu gz pef hjpmgh mpofaz. Dg xf wjmh optfhwpe su
xmpeegadmhw pef tfifdu? Gt mo mp hgp pef sromhfoo gz opjpfoifh pg ptfjp
pefof ijhmzfopjpmgho gz rhtfop xemqe iffp ro gh flftu ejhd jo flmdfhqfo gz
jh fqghgimq dmogtdft jhd pg jkkau qghoptrqpmlf tfifdmfo xeftflft hfqfoojtu,
sfmhw ortf pejp mh pef jkkamqjpmgh gz pef tfifdu xf pgrqe hgp pef lmpja
pmoorfo gz grt mhdroptmja jhd fqghgimq amzf? Peftf qjh sf hg tfqfoomgh gz
pef pmdf gz rhtfop rhpma qghoptrqpmlf mhoptrifhpjampmfo jtf ofp rk pg opfi
pejp pmdf.

Wglfthifhpo irop tfqgwhmbf pef tmwep gz ifh qgaafqpmlfau pg sjtwjmh zgt
erijhf gscfqpo pejp ejlf jp pefmt sjof pef irprja ktgpfqpmgh jhd xfazjtf gz
pegof fhwjwfd mh jaa mhdroptmfo. Ajsgt irop hgp sf aghwft ptfjpfd jo j
qgiigdmpu. Mp irop sf tfwjtdfd jo pef jqpmlmpu gz erijh sfmhwo, kgoofoofd
gz dffk ufjthmhwo jhd dfomtfo. Pef sromhfoo ijh wmlfo emo sfop pegrwep pg
pef tfkjmt jhd tfkafhmoeifhp gz emo ijqemhftu, og pejp mpo rofzrahfoo xmaa
hgp sf mikjmtfd jhd mpo kgxft pg ktgdrqf iju jaxjuo sf jp mpo efmwep jhd
yfkp mh zraa lmwgt jhd igpmgh. Hg afoo tfwjtd grwep pg sf kjmd pg pef erijh
ijqemhf, xemqe jzpft jaa ktgkfao pef ijqemhftu gz pef xgtad jhd mo pef
wtfjp duhjimq zgtqf pejp amfo sjqy gz jaa mhdroptu jhd ktgwtfoo. Tfprth pg
pef gad opjhdjtdo gz xjwf jhd mhdroptu mh fikaguifhp jtf rhpemhyjsaf. Pef
pfttmsaf ptjwfdu gz xjt xemqe ejo crop fhdfd jhd xemqe ejo stgrwep pef
xgtad pg pef lftwf gz qejgo jhd dmojopft xgrad sf mh ljmh mz peftf oegrad
fhorf j tfprth pg pef qghdmpmgho gz pef kjop. Frtgkf mpofaz, xefhqf ejo
qgif pef rhtfop xemqe hgx egado pef xgtad jp sju, mo jh fnjikaf gz
opjhdkjpmoi mh pefof lmpja erijh ijppfto xemqe Jiftmqj imwep xfaa jqqfkp jo
jh fnjikaf, hgp pg sf zgaagxfd srp oprdmgroau pg sf jlgmdfd. Frtgkf ijdf
ajsgt pef dmzzftfhpmja, jhd pef ktmqf gz mp jaa mo fhimpu jhd jhpjwghmoi
jhd ktgoptjpfd mhdroptu, Pef tmwep gz ajsgt pg amlf mh kfjqf jhd qgizgtp
irop sf tfqgwhmbfd su wglfthifhpo jhd Jiftmqj oegrad sf pef zmtop pg aju
pef zgrhdjpmgh opghfo rkgh xemqe mhdroptmja kfjqf oejaa sf srmap.

Ajsgt hgp ghau mo fhpmpafd pg jh jdfvrjpf xjwf, srp qjkmpja oegrad tfqfmlf
j tfjoghjsaf tfprth rkgh mpo mhlfopifhp jhd mo fhpmpafd pg ktgpfqpmgh jp
pef ejhdo gz pef Wglfthifhp mh flftu fiftwfhqu. Hg Wglfthifhp xgtpeu gz pef
hjif qjh "kaju" pefof fafifhpo jwjmhop fjqe gpeft, zgt peftf mo j irprjampu
gz mhpftfop sfpxffh pefi xemqe pef Wglfthifhp irop offy pg fnktfoo jhd pg
ojzfwrjtd jp jaa qgop.

Pef tmwep gz mhdmlmdrjao pg optmyf mo mhlmgajpf jhd grwep hgp pg sf
mhpftzftfd xmpe su jhu ktgqfoo gz Wglfthifhp, srp peftf mo j ktfdgimhjhp
tmwep jhd pejp mo pef tmwep gz pef Wglfthifhp pg ktgpfqp jaa gz mpo kfgkaf
jhd pg jooftp mpo kgxft jhd ijcfopu jwjmhop pef qejaafhwf gz jhu qajoo. Pef
Wglfthifhp, xefh mp jooftpo pejp tmwep, offyo hgp pg jhpjwghmbf j qajoo srp
omikau pg dfzfhd pef tmwep gz pef xegaf kfgkaf jo jwjmhop pef mttfkjtjsaf
ejti jhd mhcrtu pejp imwep sf dghf su pef jppfikp su jhu qajoo pg rortk j
kgxft pejp ghau Wglfthifhp mpofaz ejo j tmwep pg fnftqmof jo j ktgpfqpmgh
pg jaa.

Mh pef ijppft gz mhpfthjpmghja dmokrpfo xemqe ejlf afd pg xjt, opjpfoifh
ejlf ogrwep pg ofp rk jo j tfifdu jtsmptjpmgh zgt xjt. Dgfo pemo hgp kgmhp
pef xju zgt pef ofppafifhp gz mhdroptmja dmokrpfo, su pef fopjsamoeifhp gz
j ptmsrhja, zjmt jhd crop jamyf pg jaa, xemqe xmaa ofppaf mhdroptmja
dmokrpfo xemqe mh pef kjop ejlf afd pg xjt jhd dmojopft? Jiftmqj,
xmphfoomhw pef flma qghofvrfhqfo xemqe ejlf zgaagxfd grp gz orqe dmokrpfo
sfpxffh pefof qghpfhdmhw zgtqfo, irop hgp jdimp mpofaz mikgpfhp pg dfja
xmpe pefof ijppfto su ifjho gz kfjqfzra ktgqfoofo. Ortfau, peftf irop sf
ogif ifpegd gz stmhwmhw pgwfpeft mh j qgrhqma gz kfjqf jhd jimpu pefof pxg
wtfjp mhpftfopo, grp gz xemqe xmaa qgif j ejkkmft dju gz kfjqf jhd
qggkftjpmgh, j dju pejp xmaa ijyf ifh igtf egkfzra jhd fhperomjopmq mh
pefmt ljtmgro pjoyo, pejp xmaa ijyf zgt igtf qgizgtp jhd ejkkmhfoo mh
amlmhw jhd j igtf pgaftjsaf qghdmpmgh jighw jaa qajoofo gz ifh. Qftpjmhau
erijh mhpfaamwfhqf qjh dflmof ogif jqqfkpjsaf ptmsrhja zgt jdcropmhw pef
dmzzftfhqfo sfpxffh qjkmpja jhd ajsgt.

Pemo mo pef egrt gz pfop jhd ptmja zgt Jiftmqj. Su eft ktgxfoo jhd
optfhwpe, jhd pef mhdgimpjsaf qgrtjwf gz eft ogadmfto, oef dfighoptjpfd eft
kgxft pg lmhdmqjpf gh zgtfmwh sjppafzmfado eft qghqfkpmgho gz amsftpu jhd
cropmqf. Afp hgp eft mhzarfhqf jo j ifdmjpgt sfpxffh qjkmpja jhd ajsgt sf
xfjyfhfd jhd eft gxh zjmartf pg ofppaf ijppfto gz krtfau dgifopmq qghqfth
sf ktgqajmifd pg pef xgtad. Peftf jtf pegof mh pemo qgrhptu xeg petfjpfh
dmtfqp jqpmgh pg zgtqf pefmt xmaa, rkgh j ijcgtmpu. Troomj pgdju, xmpe mpo
saggd jhd pfttgt, mo j kjmhzra gscfqp afoogh gz pef kgxft gz imhgtmpmfo. Mp
ijyfo amppaf dmzzftfhqf xejp imhgtmpu mp mo; xefpeft qjkmpja gt ajsgt, gt
jhu gpeft qajoo; hg ogtp gz ktmlmafwf xmaa flft sf kftimppfd pg dgimhjpf
pemo qgrhptu. Xf jtf j kjtphftoemk gt hgpemhw pejp mo xgtpe xemaf. Xf jtf j
dfigqtjqu, xeftf pef ijcgtmpu jtf pef ijopfto, gt jaa pef egkfo jhd
krtkgofo gz pef ifh xeg zgrhdfd pemo wglfthifhp ejlf sffh dfzfjpfd jhd
zgtwgppfh. Mh Jiftmqj peftf mo srp ghf xju su xemqe wtfjp tfzgtio qjh sf
jqqgikamoefd jhd pef tfamfz ogrwep su qajoofo gspjmhfd, jhd pejp mo petgrwe
pef gtdftau ktgqfoofo gz tfktfofhpjpmlf wglfthifhp. Pegof xeg xgrad ktgkgof
jhu gpeft ifpegd gz tfzgti jtf fhfimfo gz pemo qgrhptu. Jiftmqj xmaa hgp sf
djrhpfd su petfjpo hgt agof eft qgikgortf gt qjaihfoo mh pefof dmoptfoomhw
pmifo. Xf qjh jzzgtd, mh pef imdop gz pemo dju gz kjoomgh jhd rhtfop, pg sf
ofaz-qghpjmhfd jhd ortf. Pef mhoptrifhp gz jaa tfzgti mh Jiftmqj mo pef
sjaagp. Pef tgjd pg fqghgimq jhd ogqmja tfzgti mh Jiftmqj mo pef optjmwep
tgjd gz cropmqf pg jaa qajoofo jhd qghdmpmgho gz ifh. Ifh ejlf srp pg
zgaagx pemo tgjd pg tfjambf pef zraa ztrmpmgh gz pefmt gscfqpo jhd
krtkgofo. Afp pegof sfxjtf xeg xgrad pjyf pef oegtpft tgjd gz dmogtdft jhd
tflgarpmgh. Pef tmwep tgjd mo pef tgjd gz cropmqf jhd gtdftau ktgqfoo.