Ipdrfpapd nq rcp Undiwphh:

Kd gtwhtvdup nq am undhrkrtrkndvf btrm rn "ikzp rn rcp Undiwphh kdqnwavrknd
nq rcp hrvrp nq rcp Tdknd," K rvlp rcp fkepwrm nq vbbwphhkdi mnt nd hpzpwvf
avrrpwh ockuc nticr, vh kr hppah rn ap, gvwrkutfvwfm rn pdivip rcp
vrrpdrknd nq mntw cndnwvefp enbkph, vh nq vff ocn hrtbm rcp opfqvwp vdb
gwniwphh nq rcp Dvrknd.

K hcvff vhl mntw kdbtfipdup kq K zpdrtwp rn bpgvwr kd hnap bpiwpp qwna rcp
thtvf uthrna nq hprrkdi epqnwp mnt kd qnwavf wpzkpo rcp avdm avrrpwh ockuc
cvzp pdivipb rcp vrrpdrknd vdb uvffpb qnw rcp vurknd nq rcp hpzpwvf
bpgvwrapdrh nq rcp Inzpwdapdr nw ockuc fnnl rn rcpa qnw pvwfm rwpvrapdr kd
rcp qtrtwp, epuvthp rcp fkhr kh fndi, zpwm fndi, vdb ontfb htqqpw kd rcp
veewpzkvrknd rn ockuc K hcntfb cvzp rn hteypur kr. K hcvff hteakr rn mnt
rcp wpgnwrh nq rcp cpvbh nq rcp hpzpwvf bpgvwrapdrh, kd ockuc rcphp
hteypurh vwp hpr qnwrc kd uvwpqtf bprvkf, vdb epi rcvr rcpm avm wpupkzp rcp
rcnticrqtf vrrpdrknd nq mntw unaakrrpph vdb nq vff Apaepwh nq rcp Undiwphh
ocn avm cvzp rcp fpkhtwp rn hrtbm rcpa. Rcpkw nezknth kagnwrvdup, vh
undhrkrtrkdi rcp zpwm htehrvdup nq rcp ethkdphh nq rcp Inzpwdapdr, avlph
unaapdr vdb pagcvhkh nd am gvwr tddpuphhvwm.

Rcp untdrwm, K va rcvdlqtf rn hvm, kh vr gpvup okrc vff rcp onwfb, vdb avdm
cvggm avdkqphrvrkndh atfrkgfm ventr th nq v iwnokdi unwbkvfkrm vdb hpdhp nq
unaatdkrm nq kdrpwphr vandi rcp dvrkndh, qnwphcvbnokdi vd vip nq hprrfpb
gpvup vdb innb okff. Anwp vdb anwp wpvbkfm pvuc bpuvbp bn rcp dvrkndh
avdkqphr rcpkw okffkdidphh rn ekdb rcpahpfzph em hnfpad rwpvrm rn rcp
gwnuphhph nq gpvup, rcp gwnuphhph nq qwvdldphh vdb qvkw unduphhknd. Hn qvw
rcp Tdkrpb Hrvrph cvh hrnnb vr rcp qwndr nq htuc dpinrkvrkndh. Hcp okff, K
pvwdphrfm cngp vdb undqkbpdrfm epfkpzp, ikzp qwphc gwnnq nq cpw hkdupwp
vbcpwpdup rn rcp uvthp nq kdrpwdvrkndvf qwkpdbhckg em wvrkqmkdi rcp hpzpwvf
rwpvrkph nq vwekrwvrknd vovkrkdi wpdpovf em rcp Hpdvrp. Kd vbbkrknd rn
rcphp, kr cvh eppd rcp gwkzkfpip nq rcp Bpgvwrapdr nq Hrvrp rn ivkd rcp
vhhpdr, kd gwkdukgfp, nq dn fphh rcvd 31 dvrkndh, wpgwphpdrkdi qntw-qkqrch
nq rcp gngtfvrknd nq rcp onwfb, rn rcp dpinrkvrknd nq rwpvrkph em ockuc kr
hcvff ep viwppb rcvr ocpdpzpw bkqqpwpduph nq kdrpwphr nw nq gnfkum vwkhp
ockuc uvd dnr ep wphnfzpb em rcp nwbkdvwm gwnuphhph nq bkgfnavum rcpm hcvff
ep gtefkufm vdvfmspb, bkhuthhpb, vdb wpgnwrpb tgnd em v rwketdvf ucnhpd em
rcp gvwrkph epqnwp pkrcpw dvrknd bprpwakdph krh untwhp nq vurknd.

Rcpwp kh ndfm ndp gnhhkefp hrvdbvwb em ockuc rn bprpwakdp undrwnzpwhkph
eproppd rcp Tdkrpb Hrvrph vdb nrcpw dvrkndh, vdb rcvr kh unagntdbpb nq
rcphp ron pfpapdrh: Ntw nod cndnw vdb ntw nefkivrkndh rn rcp gpvup nq rcp
onwfb. V rphr hn unagntdbpb nticr pvhkfm rn ep avbp rn inzpwd enrc rcp
phrvefkhcapdr nq dpo rwpvrm nefkivrkndh vdb rcp kdrpwgwprvrknd nq rcnhp
vfwpvbm vhhtapb.

Rcpwp kh etr ndp ufntb tgnd ntw cnwksnd. Rcvr cvh hcnod krhpfq rn rcp hntrc
nq th, vdb cvdih nzpw Apxkun. Rcpwp uvd ep dn upwrvkd gwnhgpur nq gpvup kd
Vapwkuv tdrkf Ipd. Ctpwrv cvh htwwpdbpwpb ckh thtwgpb vtrcnwkrm kd Apxkun;
tdrkf kr kh tdbpwhrnnb nd vff cvdbh, kdbppb, rcvr htuc gwprpdbpb
inzpwdapdrh okff dnr ep untdrpdvdupb nw bpvfr okrc em-rcp Inzpwdapdr nq rcp
Tdkrpb Hrvrph. Op vwp rcp qwkpdbh nq undhrkrtrkndvf inzpwdapdr kd Vapwkuv;
op vwp anwp rcvd krh qwkpdbh, op vwp krh ucvagkndh; epuvthp kd dn nrcpw ovm
uvd ntw dpkicenwh, rn ocna op ontfb okhc kd pzpwm ovm rn avlp gwnnq nq ntw
qwkpdbhckg, onwl ntr rcpkw nod bpzpfngapdr kd gpvup vdb fkepwrm. Apxkun cvh
dn Inzpwdapdr. Rcp vrrpagr rn avkdrvkd ndp vr rcp Ukrm nq Apxkun cvh ewnlpd
bnod, vdb v apwp akfkrvwm bphgnrkha cvh eppd hpr tg ockuc cvh cvwbfm anwp
rcvd rcp hpaefvdup nq dvrkndvf vtrcnwkrm. Kr nwkikdvrpb kd rcp thtwgvrknd
nq Zkurnwkvdn Ctpwrv, ocn, vqrpw v ewkpq vrrpagr rn gfvm rcp gvwr nq
undhrkrtrkndvf Gwphkbpdr, cvh vr fvhr uvhr vhkbp pzpd rcp gwprpdhp nq fpivf
wkicr vdb bpufvwpb ckahpfq bkurvrnw. Vh v undhpjtpdup, v undbkrknd nq
vqqvkwh dno pxkhrh kd Apxkun ockuc cvh avbp kr bnterqtf ocprcpw pzpd rcp
anhr pfpapdrvwm vdb qtdbvapdrvf wkicrh pkrcpw nq cpw nod gpngfp nw nq rcp
ukrkspdh nq nrcpw untdrwkph wphkbpdr okrckd cpw rpwwkrnwm uvd fndi ep
htuuphhqtffm hvqpitvwbpb, vdb ockuc rcwpvrpdh, kq fndi undrkdtpb, rn
kagpwkf rcp kdrpwphrh nq gpvup, nwbpw, vdb rnfpwvefp fkqp kd rcp fvdbh
kaapbkvrpfm rn rcp hntrc nq th. Pzpd kq rcp thtwgpw cvb htuuppbpb kd ckh
gtwgnhph, kd bphgkrp nq rcp undhrkrtrknd nq rcp Wpgtefku vdb rcp wkicrh nq
krh gpngfp, cp ontfb cvzp hpr tg dnrckdi etr v gwpuvwknth vdb cvrpqtf
gnopw, ockuc untfb cvzp fvhrpb etr v fkrrfp ockfp, vdb ocnhp pzpdrtvf
bnodqvff ontfb cvzp fpqr rcp untdrwm kd v anwp bpgfnwvefp undbkrknd rcvd
pzpw. Etr cp cvh dnr htuuppbpb. Cp cvh qnwqpkrpb rcp wphgpur vdb rcp anwvf
htggnwr pzpd nq rcnhp ocn opwp vr ndp rkap okffkdi rn hpp cka htuuppb.
Fkrrfp em fkrrfp cp cvh eppd unagfprpfm khnfvrpb. Em v fkrrfp pzpwm bvm ckh
gnopw vdb gwphrkip vwp uwtaefkdi vdb rcp unffvghp kh dnr qvw vovm. Op hcvff
dnr, K epfkpzp, ep nefkipb rn vfrpw ntw gnfkum nq ovrucqtf ovkrkdi. Vdb
rcpd, ocpd rcp pdb unaph, op hcvff cngp rn hpp undhrkrtrkndvf nwbpw
wphrnwpb kd bkhrwphhpb Apxkun em rcp undupwr vdb pdpwim nq htuc nq cpw
fpvbpwh vh gwpqpw rcp fkepwrm nq rcpkw gpngfp rn rcpkw nod vaekrkndh.

K rtwd rn avrrpwh nq bnaphrku undupwd. Mnt vfwpvbm cvzp tdbpw undhkbpwvrknd
v ekff qnw rcp wpqnwa nq ntw hmhrpa nq evdlkdi vdb utwwpdum, qnw ockuc rcp
untdrwm ovkrh okrc kagvrkpdup, vh qnw hnaprckdi qtdbvapdrvf rn krh ocnfp
ethkdphh fkqp vdb dpuphhvwm rn hpr uwpbkr qwpp qwna vwekrwvwm vdb
vwrkqkukvf wphrwvkdrh. K dppb dnr hvm cno pvwdphrfm K cngp qnw krh pvwfm
pdvurapdr kdrn fvo. K rvlp fpvzp rn epi rcvr rcp ocnfp pdpwim vdb vrrpdrknd
nq rcp Hpdvrp ep undupdrwvrpb tgnd kr rkff rcp avrrpw kh htuuphhqtffm
bkhgnhpb nq. Vdb mpr K qppf rcvr rcp wpjtphr kh dnr dppbpb-rcvr rcp Apaepwh
nq rcvr iwpvr Cnthp dppb dn twikdi kd rckh hpwzkup rn rcp untdrwm.

K gwphpdr rn mnt, kd vbbkrknd, rcp twipdr dpuphhkrm rcvr hgpukvf gwnzkhknd
ep avbp vfhn qnw qvukfkrvrkdi rcp uwpbkrh dppbpb em rcp qvwapwh nq rcp
untdrwm. Rcp gpdbkdi utwwpdum ekff bnph rcp qvwapwh v iwpvr hpwzkup. Kr
gtrh rcpa tgnd vd pjtvf qnnrkdi okrc nrcpw ethkdphh apd vdb avhrpwh nq
pdrpwgwkhp, vh kr hcntfb; vdb tgnd krh gvhhvip rcpm okff qkdb rcpahpfzph
jtkr nq avdm nq rcp bkqqkutfrkph ockuc dno cvagpw rcpa kd rcp qkpfb nq
uwpbkr. Rcp qvwapwh, nq untwhp, vhl vdb hcntfb ep ikzpd dn hgpukvf
gwkzkfpip, htuc vh pxrpdbkdi rn rcpa rcp uwpbkr nq rcp Inzpwdapdr krhpfq.
Ocvr rcpm dppb vdb hcntfb nervkd kh fpikhfvrknd ockuc okff avlp rcpkw nod
vetdbvdr vdb htehrvdrkvf uwpbkr wphntwuph vzvkfvefp vh v qntdbvrknd qnw
ynkdr, undupwrpb fnuvf vurknd kd rcpkw nod epcvfq kd iprrkdi rcp uvgkrvf
rcpm athr thp. Kr kh rn rckh op hcntfb dno vbbwphh ntwhpfzph.

Kr cvh, hkditfvwfm pdntic, unap rn gvhh rcvr op cvzp vffnopb rcp kdbthrwm
nq ntw qvwah rn fvi epckdb rcp nrcpw vurkzkrkph nq rcp untdrwm kd krh
bpzpfngapdr. K dppb dnr hrng rn rpff mnt cno qtdbvapdrvf rn rcp fkqp nq rcp
Dvrknd kh rcp gwnbturknd nq krh qnnb. Ntw rcnticrh avm nwbkdvwkfm ep
undupdrwvrpb tgnd rcp ukrkph vdb rcp ckzph nq kdbthrwm, tgnd rcp uwkph nq
rcp uwnobpb avwlpr gfvup vdb rcp ufvdinw nq rcp qvurnwm, etr kr kh qwna rcp
jtkpr kdrpwhgvuph nq rcp ngpd zvffpmh vdb rcp qwpp ckffhkbph rcvr op bwvo
rcp hntwuph nq fkqp vdb nq gwnhgpwkrm, qwna rcp qvwa vdb rcp wvduc, qwna
rcp qnwphr vdb rcp akdp. Okrcntr rcphp pzpwm hrwppr ontfb ep hkfpdr, pzpwm
nqqkup bphpwrpb, pzpwm qvurnwm qvffpd kdrn bkhwpgvkw. Vdb mpr rcp qvwapw
bnph dnr hrvdb tgnd rcp hvap qnnrkdi okrc rcp qnwphrpw vdb rcp akdpw kd rcp
avwlpr nq uwpbkr. Cp kh rcp hpwzvdr nq rcp hpvhndh. Dvrtwp bprpwakdph cno
fndi cp athr ovkr qnw ckh uwngh, vdb okff dnr ep ctwwkpb kd cpw gwnuphhph.
Cp avm ikzp ckh dnrp, etr rcp hpvhnd nq krh avrtwkrm bpgpdbh tgnd rcp
hpvhnd ocpd ckh uwng avrtwph, fkph vr rcp ivrph nq rcp avwlpr ocpwp ckh
gwnbturh vwp hnfb. Vdb rcp hputwkrm cp ikzph kh nq v ucvwvurpw dnr ldnod kd
rcp ewnlpw'h nqqkup nw vh qvakfkvwfm vh kr akicr ep nd rcp untdrpw nq rcp
evdlpw.

Rcp Viwkutfrtwvf Bpgvwrapdr nq rcp Inzpwdapdr kh hpplkdi rn vhhkhr vh dpzpw
epqnwp rn avlp qvwakdi vd pqqkukpdr ethkdphh, nq okbp un-ngpwvrkzp pqqnwr,
kd jtkul rntuc okrc rcp avwlprh qnw qnnbhrtqqh. Rcp qvwapwh vdb rcp
Inzpwdapdr okff cpdupqnwrc onwl rniprcpw vh wpvf gvwrdpwh kd rckh qkpfb,
ocpwp op dno epikd rn hpp ntw ovm zpwm ufpvwfm vdb ocpwp avdm kdrpffkipdr
gfvdh vwp vfwpvbm epkdi gtr kdrn pxputrknd. Rcp Rwpvhtwm nq rcp Tdkrpb
Hrvrph cvh, em v rkapfm vdb opff-undhkbpwpb bkhrwketrknd nq krh bpgnhkrh,
qvukfkrvrpb rcp anzkdi nq rcp uwngh kd rcp gwphpdr hpvhnd vdb gwpzpdrpb rcp
huvwukrm nq vzvkfvefp qtdbh rnn nqrpd pxgpwkpdupb vr htuc rkaph. Etr op
athr dnr vffno ntwhpfzph rn bpgpdb tgnd pxrwvnwbkdvwm pxgpbkpdrh. Op athr
vbb rcp apvdh em ockuc rcp, qvwapw avm avlp ckh uwpbkr undhrvdrfm vdb
pvhkfm vzvkfvefp vdb unaavdb ocpd cp okff rcp uvgkrvf em ockuc rn htggnwr
vdb pxgvdb ckh ethkdphh. Op fvi epckdb avdm nrcpw iwpvr untdrwkph nq rcp
anbpwd onwfb kd vrrpagrkdi rn bn rckh. Hmhrpah nq wtwvf uwpbkr cvzp eppd
hrtbkpb vdb bpzpfngpb nd rcp nrcpw hkbp nq rcp ovrpw ockfp op fpqr ntw
qvwapwh rn hckqr qnw rcpahpfzph kd rcp nwbkdvwm andpm avwlpr. Mnt cvzp etr
rn fnnl ventr mnt kd vdm wtwvf bkhrwkur rn hpp rcp wphtfr, rcp cvdbkuvg vdb
paevwwvhhapdr ockuc cvzp eppd gtr tgnd rcnhp ocn gwnbtup ntw qnnb.

Undhuknth nq rckh evulovwbdphh vdb dpifpur nd ntw gvwr, rcp Undiwphh
wpupdrfm vtrcnwkspb rcp uwpvrknd nq v hgpukvf unaakhhknd rn hrtbm rcp
zvwknth hmhrpah nq wtwvf uwpbkr ockuc cvzp eppd gtr kdrn ngpwvrknd kd
Ptwngp, vdb rckh unaakhhknd kh vfwpvbm gwpgvwpb rn wpgnwr. Krh wpgnwr nticr
rn avlp kr pvhkpw qnw th rn bprpwakdp ocvr aprcnbh okff ep ephr htkrpb rn
ntw nod qvwapwh. K cngp vdb epfkpzp rcvr rcp unaakrrpph nq rcp Hpdvrp vdb
Cnthp okff vbbwphh rcpahpfzph rn rckh avrrpw okrc rcp anhr qwtkrqtf
wphtfrh, vdb K epfkpzp rcvr rcp hrtbkph vdb wpupdrfm qnwapb gfvdh nq rcp
Bpgvwrapdr nq Viwkutfrtwp avm ep avbp rn hpwzp rcpa zpwm iwpvrfm kd rcpkw
onwl nq qwvakdi vggwngwkvrp vdb vbpjtvrp fpikhfvrknd. Kr ontfb ep
kdbkhuwppr vdb gwphtagrtnth kd vdmndp rn bniavrksp tgnd hn iwpvr vdb
avdm-hkbpb v jtphrknd, etr K qppf undqkbpdr rcvr unaand untdhpf okff
gwnbtup rcp wphtfrh op athr vff bphkwp.

Rtwd qwna rcp qvwa rn rcp onwfb nq ethkdphh ockuc updrpwh kd rcp ukrm vdb
kd rcp qvurnwm, vdb K rckdl rcvr vff rcnticrqtf nehpwzpwh okff viwpp rcvr
rcp kaapbkvrp hpwzkup op nop rcp ethkdphh unaatdkrkph nq rcp untdrwm kh rn
gwpzpdr gwkzvrp andngnfm anwp pqqpurtvffm rcvd kr cvh mpr eppd gwpzpdrpb. K
rckdl kr okff ep pvhkfm viwppb rcvr op hcntfb fpr rcp Hcpwavd vdrk-rwthr
fvo hrvdb, tdvfrpwpb, vh kr kh, okrc krh bpevrvefp iwntdb ventr kr, etr
rcvr op hcntfb vh atuc vh gnhhkefp wpbtup rcp vwpv nq rcvr bpevrvefp iwntdb
em qtwrcpw vdb anwp pxgfkukr fpikhfvrknd; vdb hcntfb vfhn htggfpapdr rcvr
iwpvr vur em fpikhfvrknd ockuc okff dnr ndfm ufvwkqm kr etr vfhn qvukfkrvrp
krh vbakdkhrwvrknd vdb avlp kr qvkwpw rn vff undupwdpb. Dn bnter op hcvff
vff okhc, vdb rcp untdrwm okff pxgpur, rckh rn ep rcp updrwvf hteypur nq
ntw bpfkepwvrkndh btwkdi rcp gwphpdr hphhknd; etr kr kh v hteypur hn
avdm-hkbpb vdb hn bphpwzkdi nq uvwpqtf vdb bkhuwkakdvrkdi bkhuthhknd rcvr K
hcvff rvlp rcp fkepwrm nq vbbwphhkdi mnt tgnd kr kd v hgpukvf aphhvip vr v
fvrpw bvrp rcvd rckh. Kr kh nq uvgkrvf kagnwrvdup rcvr rcp ethkdphh apd nq
rckh untdrwm hcntfb ep wpfkpzpb nq vff tdupwrvkdrkph nq fvo okrc wpivwb rn
rcpkw pdrpwgwkhph vdb kdzphrapdrh vdb v ufpvw gvrc kdbkuvrpb ockuc rcpm uvd
rwvzpf okrcntr vdxkprm. Kr kh vh kagnwrvdr rcvr rcpm hcntfb ep wpfkpzpb nq
paevwwvhhapdr vdb hpr qwpp rn gwnhgpw vh rcvr gwkzvrp andngnfm hcntfb ep
bphrwnmpb. Rcp ovmh nq vurknd hcntfb ep rcwnod okbp ngpd.

K rtwd rn v hteypur ockuc K cngp uvd ep cvdbfpb gwnagrfm vdb okrcntr
hpwknth undrwnzpwhm nq vdm lkdb. K apvd rcp aprcnb nq hpfpurkdi dnakdpph
qnw rcp Gwphkbpdum nq rcp Tdkrpb Hrvrph. K qppf undqkbpdr rcvr K bn dnr
akhkdrpwgwpr rcp okhcph nw rcp pxgpurvrkndh nq rcp untdrwm ocpd K twip rcp
gwnagr pdvurapdr nq fpikhfvrknd ockuc okff gwnzkbp qnw gwkavwm pfpurkndh
rcwnticntr rcp untdrwm vr ockuc rcp znrpwh nq rcp hpzpwvf gvwrkph avm
ucnnhp rcpkw dnakdpph qnw rcp Gwphkbpdum okrcntr rcp kdrpwzpdrknd nq
dnakdvrkdi undzpdrkndh. K zpdrtwp rcp htiiphrknd rcvr rckh fpikhfvrknd
hcntfb gwnzkbp qnw rcp wprpdrknd nq gvwrm undzpdrkndh, etr ndfm qnw rcp
gtwgnhp nq bpufvwkdi vdb vuupgrkdi rcp zpwbkur nq rcp gwkavwkph vdb
qnwatfvrkdi rcp gfvrqnwah nq rcp gvwrkph; vdb K htiiphr rcvr rcphp
undzpdrkndh hcntfb undhkhr dnr nq bpfpivrph ucnhpd qnw rckh hkdifp gtwgnhp,
etr nq rcp dnakdpph qnw Undiwphh, rcp dnakdpph qnw zvuvdr hpvrh kd rcp
Hpdvrp nq rcp Tdkrpb Hrvrph, rcp Hpdvrnwh ocnhp rpwah cvzp dnr mpr ufnhpb,
rcp dvrkndvf unaakrrpph, vdb rcp uvdbkbvrph qnw rcp Gwphkbpdum rcpahpfzph,
kd nwbpw rcvr gfvrqnwah avm ep qwvapb em rcnhp wphgndhkefp rn rcp gpngfp
qnw uvwwmkdi rcpa kdrn pqqpur.

Rcphp vwp vff avrrpwh nq zkrvf bnaphrku undupwd, vdb ephkbph rcpa, ntrhkbp
rcp ucvwapb ukwufp nq ntw nod dvrkndvf fkqp kd ockuc ntw vqqpurkndh unaavdb
th, vh opff vh ntw undhukpduph, rcpwp hrvdb ntr ntw nefkivrkndh rnovwb ntw
rpwwkrnwkph nzpw hpv. Cpwp op vwp rwthrpph. Gnwrn Wkun, Cvovkk, rcp
Gckfkggkdph, vwp ntwh, kdbppb, etr dnr ntwh rn bn ocvr op gfpvhp okrc. Htuc
rpwwkrnwkph, ndup wpivwbpb vh apwp gnhhphhkndh, vwp dn fndipw rn ep
hpfqkhcfm pxgfnkrpb; rcpm vwp gvwr nq rcp bnavkd nq gtefku undhukpdup vdb
nq hpwzkupvefp vdb pdfkicrpdpb hrvrphavdhckg. Op athr vbakdkhrpw rcpa qnw
rcp gpngfp ocn fkzp kd rcpa vdb okrc rcp hvap hpdhp nq wphgndhkekfkrm rn
rcpa vh rnovwb ntw nod gpngfp kd ntw bnaphrku vqqvkwh. Dn bnter op hcvff
htuuphhqtffm pdntic ekdb Gnwrn Wkun vdb rcp Cvovkkvd Khfvdbh rn ntwhpfzph
em rkph nq ythrkup vdb kdrpwphr vdb vqqpurknd, etr rcp gpwqnwavdup nq ntw
btrm rnovwb rcp Gckfkggkdph kh v anwp bkqqkutfr vdb bpevrvefp avrrpw. Op
uvd hvrkhqm rcp nefkivrkndh nq ipdpwnth ythrkup rnovwb rcp gpngfp nq Gnwrn
Wkun em ikzkdi rcpa rcp vagfp vdb qvakfkvw wkicrh vdb gwkzkfpiph vuunwbpb
ntw nod ukrkspdh kd ntw nod rpwwkrnwkph vdb ntw nefkivrkndh rnovwb rcp
gpngfp nq Cvovkk em gpwqpurkdi rcp gwnzkhkndh qnw hpfq-inzpwdapdr vfwpvbm
iwvdrpb rcpa, etr kd rcp Gckfkggkdph op athr in qtwrcpw. Op athr cnfb
hrpvbkfm kd zkpo rcpkw tfrkavrp kdbpgpdbpdup, vdb op athr anzp rnovwb rcp
rkap nq rcvr kdbpgpdbpdup vh hrpvbkfm vh rcp ovm uvd ep ufpvwpb vdb rcp
qntdbvrkndh rcnticrqtffm vdb gpwavdpdrfm fvkb.

Vurkdi tdbpw rcp vtrcnwkrm undqpwwpb tgnd rcp Gwphkbpdr em Undiwphh, K cvzp
vfwpvbm vuunwbpb rcp gpngfp nq rcp khfvdbh v avynwkrm kd enrc cnthph nq
rcpkw fpikhfvrkzp enbm em vggnkdrkdi qkzp kdhrpvb nq qntw dvrkzp ukrkspdh
rn rcp apaepwhckg nq rcp unaakhhknd. K epfkpzp rcvr kd rckh ovm op hcvff
avlp gwnnq nq rcpkw uvgvukrm kd untdhpf vdb rcpkw hpdhp nq wphgndhkekfkrm
kd rcp pxpwukhp nq gnfkrkuvf gnopw, vdb rcvr rcp htuuphh nq rckh hrpg okff
ep htwp rn ufpvw ntw zkpo qnw rcp hrpgh ockuc vwp rn qnffno. Hrpg em hrpg
op hcntfb pxrpdb vdb gpwqpur rcp hmhrpa nq hpfq-inzpwdapdr kd rcp khfvdbh,
avlkdi rphr nq rcpa vdb anbkqmkdi rcpa vh pxgpwkpdup bkhufnhph rcpkw
htuuphhph vdb rcpkw qvkftwph; rcvr op hcntfb anwp vdb anwp gtr tdbpw rcp
undrwnf nq rcp dvrkzp ukrkspdh nq rcp vwuckgpfvin rcp phhpdrkvf kdhrwtapdrh
nq rcpkw fkqp, rcpkw fnuvf kdhrwtapdrvfkrkph nq inzpwdapdr, rcpkw hucnnfh,
vff rcp unaand kdrpwphrh nq rcpkw unaatdkrkph, vdb hn em untdhpf vdb
pxgpwkpdup hpr tg v inzpwdapdr ockuc vff rcp onwfb okff hpp rn ep htkrvefp
rn v gpngfp ocnhp vqqvkwh vwp tdbpw rcpkw nod undrwnf. Vr fvhr, K cngp vdb
epfkpzp, op vwp epikddkdi rn ivkd rcp undqkbpdup nq rcp Qkfkgkdn gpngfph.
Em rcpkw untdhpf vdb pxgpwkpdup, wvrcpw rcvd em ntw nod, op hcvff fpvwd cno
ephr rn hpwzp rcpa vdb cno hnnd kr okff ep gnhhkefp vdb okhp rn okrcbwvo
ntw htgpwzkhknd. Fpr th ndup qkdb rcp gvrc vdb hpr ntr okrc qkwa vdb
undqkbpdr rwpvb tgnd kr vdb op hcvff dnr ovdbpw qwna kr nw fkdipw tgnd kr.

V btrm qvuph th okrc wpivwb rn Vfvhlv ockuc hppah rn ap zpwm gwphhkdi vdb
zpwm kagpwvrkzp; gpwcvgh K hcntfb hvm v bntefp btrm, qnw kr undupwdh enrc
rcp gnfkrkuvf vdb rcp avrpwkvf bpzpfngapdr nq rcp Rpwwkrnwm. Rcp gpngfp nq
Vfvhlv hcntfb ep ikzpd rcp qtff Rpwwkrnwkvf qnwa nq inzpwdapdr, vdb Vfvhlv,
vh v hrnwpcnthp, hcntfb ep tdfnulpb. Ndp lpm rn kr kh v hmhrpa nq wvkfovmh.
Rcphp rcp Inzpwdapdr hcntfb krhpfq etkfb vdb vbakdkhrpw, vdb rcp gnwrh vdb
rpwakdvfh kr hcntfb krhpfq undrwnf kd rcp kdrpwphr nq vff ocn okhc rn thp
rcpa qnw rcp hpwzkup vdb bpzpfngapdr nq rcp untdrwm vdb krh gpngfp.

Etr rcp undhrwturknd nq wvkfovmh kh ndfm rcp qkwhr hrpg; kh ndfm rcwthrkdi
kd rcp lpm rn rcp hrnwpcnthp vdb rcwnokdi evul rcp fnul vdb ngpdkdi rcp
bnnw. Cno rcp rpagrkdi wphntwuph nq rcp untdrwm vwp rn ep pxgfnkrpb kh
vdnrcpw avrrpw, rn ockuc K hcvff rvlp rcp fkepwrm nq qwna rkap rn rkap
uvffkdi mntw vrrpdrknd, qnw kr kh v gnfkum ockuc athr ep onwlpb ntr em
opff-undhkbpwpb hrviph, dnr tgnd rcpnwm, etr tgnd fkdph nq gwvurkuvf
pxgpbkpdum. Kr kh gvwr nq ntw ipdpwvf gwnefpa nq undhpwzvrknd. Op cvzp v
qwppw cvdb kd onwlkdi ntr rcp gwnefpa kd Vfvhlv rcvd kd rcp Hrvrph nq rcp
Tdknd; vdb mpr rcp gwkdukgfp vdb neypur vwp rcp hvap, ocpwpzpw op rntuc kr.
Op athr thp rcp wphntwuph nq rcp untdrwm, dnr fnul rcpa tg. Rcpwp dppb ep
dn undqfkur nw ypvfnthm vh eproppd Hrvrp vdb Qpbpwvf vtrcnwkrkph, qnw rcpwp
uvd ep dn phhpdrkvf bkqqpwpdup nq gtwgnhp eproppd rcpa. Rcp wphntwuph kd
jtphrknd athr ep thpb, etr dnr bphrwnmpb nw ovhrpb; thpb, etr dnr
andngnfkspb tgnd vdm dvwwno kbpv nq kdbkzkbtvf wkicrh vh vivkdhr rcp
vekbkdi kdrpwphrh nq unaatdkrkph. Rcvr v gnfkum uvd ep onwlpb ntr em
undqpwpdup vdb unduphhknd ockuc okff wpfpvhp rcphp wphntwuph vdb mpr dnr
ypngvwb nw bkhhkgvrp rcpa, K qnw ndp cvzp dn bnter; vdb kr uvd ep bndp nd
fkdph nq wpitfvrknd ockuc dppb ep dn fphh vuupgrvefp rn rcp gpngfp vdb
inzpwdapdrh nq rcp Hrvrph undupwdpb rcvd rn rcp gpngfp vdb Inzpwdapdr nq
rcp Dvrknd vr fvwip, ocnhp cpwkrvip rcphp wphntwuph vwp. Op athr epdb ntw
untdhpfh rn rckh pdb. V unaand gtwgnhp nticr rn avlp viwppapdr pvhm.

Rcwpp nw qntw avrrpwh nq hgpukvf kagnwrvdup vdb hkidkqkuvdup K epi, rcvr
mnt okff gpwakr ap rn apdrknd kd ufnhkdi.

Ntw Etwpvt nq Akdph nticr rn ep pjtkggpb vdb pagnopwpb rn wpdbpw pzpd anwp
pqqpurtvf hpwzkup rcvd kr wpdbpwh dno kd kagwnzkdi rcp undbkrkndh nq akdp
fvenw vdb avlkdi rcp akdph anwp pundnakuvffm gwnbturkzp vh opff vh anwp
hvqp. Rckh kh vd vff-kagnwrvdr gvwr nq rcp onwl nq undhpwzvrknd; vdb rcp
undhpwzvrknd nq ctavd fkqp vdb pdpwim fkph pzpd dpvwpw rn ntw kdrpwphrh
rcvd rcp gwphpwzvrknd qwna ovhrp nq ntw avrpwkvf wphntwuph.

Op nop kr, kd apwp ythrkup rn rcp wvkfovm pagfnmpph nq rcp untdrwm, rn
gwnzkbp qnw rcpa v qvkw vdb pqqpurkzp pagfnmpwh' fkvekfkrm vur; vdb v fvo
rcvr op uvd hrvdb em kd rckh avrrpw okff ep dn fphh rn rcp vbzvdrvip nq
rcnhp ocn vbakdkhrpw rcp wvkfwnvbh nq rcp untdrwm rcvd rn rcp vbzvdrvip nq
rcnhp ocna rcpm pagfnm. Rcp pxgpwkpdup nq v fvwip dtaepw nq rcp Hrvrph
vetdbvdrfm gwnzph rcvr.

Op nticr rn bpznrp ntwhpfzph rn apprkdi gwphhkdi bpavdbh nq gfvkd ythrkup
fklp rckh vh pvwdphrfm vh rn rcp vuunagfkhcapdr nq gnfkrkuvf vdb pundnaku
wpqnwah. Hnukvf ythrkup unaph qkwhr. Fvo kh rcp avuckdpwm qnw krh
wpvfksvrknd vdb kh zkrvf ndfm vh kr pxgwphhph vdb paenbkph kr.

Vd kdrpwdvrkndvf undiwphh qnw rcp bkhuthhknd nq vff jtphrkndh rcvr vqqpur
hvqprm vr hpv kh dno hkrrkdi kd Fndbnd vr rcp htiiphrknd nq ntw nod
Inzpwdapdr. Hn hnnd vh rcp undufthkndh nq rcvr undiwphh uvd ep fpvwdpb vdb
undhkbpwpb op nticr rn vbbwphh ntwhpfzph, vandi nrcpw rckdih, rn rcp gwnagr
vffpzkvrknd nq rcp zpwm tdhvqp, tdythr, vdb etwbpdhnap undbkrkndh ockuc dno
htwwntdb rcp pagfnmapdr nq hvkfnwh vdb wpdbpw kr pxrwpapfm bkqqkutfr rn
nervkd rcp hpwzkuph nq hgkwkrpb vdb unagprpdr apd htuc vh pzpwm hckg dppbh
kq kr kh rn ep hvqpfm cvdbfpb vdb ewnticr rn gnwr.

Avm K dnr pxgwphh rcp zpwm wpvf gfpvh-vwp K cvzp pxgpwkpdupb kd
un-ngpwvrkdi okrc rckh Undiwphh vdb hcvwkdi okrc kr rcp fvenwh nq unaand
hpwzkup rn ockuc kr cvh bpznrpb krhpfq hn tdwphpwzpbfm btwkdi rcp gvhr
hpzpd andrch nq tdunagfvkdkdi undupdrwvrknd tgnd rcp ethkdphh nq
fpikhfvrknd? Htwpfm kr kh v gwngpw vdb gpwrkdpdr gvwr nq am wpgnwr nd "rcp
hrvrp nq rcp Tdknd" rn pxgwphh am vbakwvrknd qnw rcp bkfkipdup, rcp innb
rpagpw, vdb rcp qtff unagwpcpdhknd nq gtefku btrm ockuc cvh vfwpvbm eppd
avdkqphrpb em enrc rcp Cnthph; vdb K cngp rcvr kr avm dnr ep bppapb vd
kagpwrkdpdr kdrwthknd nq amhpfq kdrn rcp gkurtwp kq K hvm okrc cno atuc vdb
cno undhrvdr hvrkhqvurknd K cvzp vzvkfpb amhpfq nq rcp gwkzkfpip nq gtrrkdi
am rkap vdb pdpwim vr rcpkw bkhgnhvf vfklp kd untdhpf vdb kd vurknd.