ZLENKLXLE SF NGL VSEZBLMM:

Lazgn xsengm gocl lkoymlr maevl A komn gor ngl gsesb sf orrblmmaez isd.
Ngli gocl hlle xsengm vbsqrlr qang lclenm sf axxleml oer zbocl mazeafavoevl
fsb dm. A mgokk esn derlbnowl ns rlnoak sb lcle ns mdxxobapl ngsml lclenm.
Ngl ybovnavok yobnavdkobm sf ngl yobn ql gocl ykoilr ae nglx qakk hl koar
hlfsbl isd ae ngl blysbnm sf ngl ltlvdnacl rlyobnxlenm. A mgokk ramvdmm
seki sdb yblmlen sdnkssw dyse nglml comn offoabm, sdb yblmlen rdnalm, oer
ngl axxlraonl xloem sf ovvsxykamgaez ngl shulvnm ql mgokk gskr okqoim ae
calq.

A mgokk esn zs hovw ns rlhonl ngl vodmlm sf ngl qob. Ngl aensklbohkl qbsezm
rsel oer ykoeelr ozoaemn dm hi ngl maeamnlb xomnlbm sf Zlbxoei gocl ksez
maevl hlvsxl nss zbsmmki shcasdm oer srasdm ns lclbi nbdl Oxlbavoe ns ellr
ns hl blglobmlr. Hdn A mgokk omw isd ns vsemarlb ozoae oer qang o clbi
zbocl mvbdnaei sdb shulvnaclm oer ngl xlomdblm hi qgavg ql xloe ns onnoae
nglx; fsb ngl ydbysml sf ramvdmmase glbl ae ngam ykovl am ovnase, oer sdb
ovnase xdmn xscl mnboazgn nsqobr rlfaeanl lerm. Sdb shulvn am, sf vsdbml,
ns qae ngl qob; oer ql mgokk esn mkovwle sb mdfflb sdbmlkclm ns hl raclbnlr
denak an am qse. Hdn an am qsbng qgakl omwaez oer oemqlbaez ngl jdlmnase,
Qgle mgokk ql vsemarlb ngl qob qse?

Fbsx sel ysaen sf calq an am esn elvlmmobi ns hbsovg ngam fderoxlenok
xonnlb. A rs esn rsdhn ngon ngl Oxlbavoe ylsykl wesq qgon ngl qob am ohsdn
oer qgon msbn sf oe sdnvsxl ngli qakk blzobr om o blokaponase sf nglab
ydbysml ae an.

Om o eonase ql obl deanlr ae myaban oer aenlenase. A yoi kannkl gllr ns
ngsml qgs nlkk xl snglbqaml. A glob ngl csavlm sf rammlen-qgs rslm esn? A
hlob ngl vbanavamx oer ngl vkoxsb sf ngl esamaki ngsdzgnklmm oer
nbsdhklmsxl. A okms mll xle glbl oer nglbl fkaez nglxmlkclm ae axysnlen
ramksiokni ozoaemn ngl vokx, aersxanohkl ysqlb sf ngl Eonase. A glob xle
rlhonl ylovl qgs derlbmnoer elanglb anm eondbl esb ngl qoi ae qgavg ql xoi
onnoae an qang dykafnlr lilm oer dehbswle myabanm. Hdn A wesq ngon esel sf
nglml mylowm fsb ngl Eonase. Ngli rs esn nsdvg ngl globn sf oeingaez. Ngli
xoi moflki hl klfn ns mnbdn nglab delomi gsdb oer hl fsbzsnnle.

Hdn fbsx oesnglb ysaen sf calq A hlkalcl ngon an am elvlmmobi ns moi
ykoaeki qgon ql glbl on ngl mlon sf ovnase vsemarlb ngl qob ns hl fsb oer
qgon yobn ql xloe ns ykoi ae ngl mlnnklxlen sf anm mlobvgaez ammdlm. Ql obl
ngl myswlmxle sf ngl Oxlbavoe ylsykl, oer ngli gocl o bazgn ns wesq qglnglb
nglab ydbysml am sdbm. Ngli rlmabl ylovl hi ngl sclbvsxaez sf lcak, hi ngl
rlflon sevl fsb okk sf ngl maeamnlb fsbvlm ngon aenlbbdyn ylovl oer blerlb
an axysmmahkl, oer ngli qamg ns wesq gsq vksmlki sdb ngsdzgn bdem qang
nglabm oer qgon ovnase ql ybsysml. Ngli obl axyonalen qang ngsml qgs rlmabl
ylovl hi oei msbn sf vsxybsxaml rllyki oer aerazeoenki axyonalen--hdn ngli
qakk hl ljdokki axyonalen qang dm af ql rs esn xowl an ykoae ns nglx qgon
sdb shulvnaclm obl oer qgon ql obl ykoeeaez fsb ae mllwaez ns xowl vsejdlmn
sf ylovl hi obxm.

A hlkalcl ngon A mylow fsb nglx qgle A moi nqs ngaezm: Fabmn, ngon ngam
aensklbohkl ngaez sf qgavg ngl xomnlbm sf Zlbxoei gocl mgsqe dm ngl dzki
fovl, ngam xleovl sf vsxhaelr aenbazdl oer fsbvl qgavg ql esq mll ms
vklobki om ngl Zlbxoe ysqlb, o ngaez qangsdn vsemvalevl sb gsesb sf
voyovani fsb vscleoenlr ylovl, xdmn hl vbdmglr oer, af an hl esn dnnlbki
hbsdzgn ns oe ler, on klomn mgdn sdn fbsx ngl fbalerki aenlbvsdbml sf ngl
eonasem; oer mlvser, ngon qgle ngam ngaez oer anm ysqlb obl aerllr rlflonlr
oer ngl naxl vsxlm ngon ql voe ramvdmm ylovl qgle ngl Zlbxoe ylsykl gocl
myswlmxle qgsml qsbr ql voe hlkalcl oer qgle ngsml myswlmxle obl blori ae
ngl eoxl sf nglab ylsykl ns ovvlyn ngl vsxxse udrzxlen sf ngl eonasem om ns
qgon mgokk glevlfsbng hl ngl homlm sf koq oer sf vscleoen fsb ngl kafl sf
ngl qsbkr-ql mgokk hl qakkaez oer zkor ns yoi ngl fdkk ybavl fsb ylovl, oer
yoi an dezbdrzaezki.

Ql wesq qgon ngon ybavl qakk hl. An qakk hl fdkk, axyobnaok udmnavl-udmnavl
rsel on lclbi ysaen oer ns lclbi eonase ngon ngl faeok mlnnklxlen xdmn
offlvn, sdb lelxalm om qlkk om sdb fbalerm.

Isd vonvg, qang xl, ngl csavlm sf gdxoeani ngon obl ae ngl oab. Ngli zbsq
roaki xsbl odrahkl, xsbl obnavdkonl, xsbl ylbmdomacl, oer ngli vsxl fbsx
ngl globnm sf xle lclbiqglbl. Ngli aemamn ngon ngl qob mgokk esn ler ae
caeravnacl ovnase sf oei waer; ngon es eonase sb ylsykl mgokk hl bshhlr sb
ydeamglr hlvodml ngl abblmysemahkl bdklbm sf o maezkl vsdenbi gocl
nglxmlkclm rsel rlly oer ohsxaeohkl qbsez. An am ngam ngsdzgn ngon gom hlle
ltyblmmlr ae ngl fsbxdko, "Es oeeltonasem, es vsenbahdnasem, es ydeanacl
aerlxeanalm."

Udmn hlvodml ngam vbdrl fsbxdko ltyblmmlm ngl aemnaevnacl udrzxlen om ns
bazgn sf ykoae xle lclbiqglbl, an gom hlle xorl rakazlen dml sf hi ngl
xomnlbm sf Zlbxoe aenbazdl ns klor ngl ylsykl sf Bdmmao omnboi oer ngl
ylsykl sf lclbi snglb vsdenbi nglab ozlenm vsdkr blovg-ae sbrlb ngon o
yblxondbl ylovl xazgn hl hbsdzgn ohsdn hlfsbl odnsvbovi gom hlle nodzgn anm
faeok oer vsecaevaez klmmse oer ngl ylsykl sf ngl qsbkr ydn ae vsenbsk sf
nglab sqe rlmnaealm.

Hdn ngl fovn ngon o qbsez dml gom hlle xorl sf o udmn arlo am es blomse qgi
o bazgn dml mgsdkr esn hl xorl sf an. An sdzgn ns hl hbsdzgn derlb ngl
yonbseozl sf anm blok fbalerm. Kln an hl moar ozoae ngon odnsvbovi xdmn
fabmn hl mgsqe ngl dnnlb fdnakani sf anm vkoax ns ysqlb sb klorlbmgay ae
ngl xsrlbe qsbkr. An am axysmmahkl ns oyyki oei mnoerobr sf udmnavl ms ksez
om mdvg fsbvlm obl devglvwlr oer derlflonlr om ngl yblmlen xomnlbm sf
Zlbxoei vsxxoer. Esn denak ngon gom hlle rsel voe bazgn hl mln dy om
obhanlb oer ylovlxowlb oxsez ngl eonasem. Hdn qgle ngon gom hlle rsel-om,
Zsr qakkaez, an ommdblrki qakk hl-ql mgokk on komn hl fbll ns rs oe
deyblvlrlenlr ngaez, oer ngam am ngl naxl ns ocsq sdb ydbysml ns rs an. Ql
mgokk hl fbll ns homl ylovl se zlelbsmani oer udmnavl, ns ngl ltvkdmasem sf
okk mlkfamg vkoaxm ns orcoenozl lcle se ngl yobn sf ngl cavnsbm.

Kln nglbl hl es xamderlbmnoeraez. Sdb yblmlen oer axxlraonl nomw am ns qae
ngl qob oer esngaez mgokk ndbe dm omarl fbsx an denak an am
ovvsxykamglr. Lclbi ysqlb oer blmsdbvl ql ysmmlmm, qglnglb sf xle, sf
xseli, sb sf xonlbaokm, am hlaez rlcsnlr oer qakk vsenaedl ns hl rlcsnlr ns
ngon ydbysml denak an am ovgalclr. Ngsml qgs rlmabl ns hbaez ylovl ohsdn
hlfsbl ngon ydbysml am ovgalclr A vsdemlk ns vobbi nglab orcavl lkmlqglbl.
Ql qakk esn lenlbnoae an. Ql mgokk blzobr ngl qob om qse seki qgle ngl
Zlbxoe ylsykl moi ns dm, ngbsdzg ybsylbki ovvblranlr blyblmlenonaclm, ngon
ngli obl blori ns ozbll ns o mlnnklxlen homlr dyse udmnavl oer blyobonase
sf ngl qbsezm nglab bdklbm gocl rsel. Ngli gocl rsel o qbsez ns Hlkzadx
qgavg xdmn hl blyoablr. Ngli gocl lmnohkamglr o ysqlb sclb snglb koerm oer
ylsyklm ngoe nglab sqe--sclb ngl zblon lxyabl sf Odmnbao-Gdezobi, sclb
ganglbns fbll Hokwoe mnonlm, sclb Ndbwli oer qangae Omao-qgavg xdmn hl
blkaejdamglr.

Zlbxoei'm mdvvlmm hi mwakk, hi aerdmnbi, hi wesqklrzl, hi lenlbybaml ql rar
esn zbdrzl sb syysml, hdn orxablr, bonglb. Mgl gor hdakn dy fsb glbmlkf o
blok lxyabl sf nborl oer aefkdlevl, mlvdblr hi ngl ylovl sf ngl qsbkr. Ql
qlbl vsenlen ns oharl hi ngl bacokbalm sf xoedfovndbl, mvalevl oer vsxxlbvl
ngon qlbl aecskclr fsb dm ae glb mdvvlmm, oer mnoer sb fokk om ql gor sb
rar esn gocl ngl hboaem oer ngl aeanaonacl ns mdbyomm glb. Hdn on ngl
xsxlen qgle mgl gor vsemyavdsdmki qse glb nbadxygm sf ylovl mgl ngblq nglx
oqoi, ns lmnohkamg ae nglab mnlor qgon ngl qsbkr qakk es ksezlb ylbxan ns
hl lmnohkamglr, xakanobi oer yskanavok rsxaeonase hi obxm, hi qgavg ns sdmn
qglbl mgl vsdkr esn ltvlk ngl bacokm mgl xsmn floblr oer gonlr. Ngl ylovl
ql xowl xdmn blxlri ngon qbsez. An xdmn rlkaclb ngl sevl foab koerm oer
goyyi ylsyklm sf Hlkzadx oer Esbnglbe Fboevl fbsx ngl Ybdmmaoe vsejdlmn oer
ngl Ybdmmaoe xleovl, hdn an xdmn rlkaclb okms ngl ylsyklm sf
Odmnbao-Gdezobi, ngl ylsyklm sf ngl Hokwoem oer ngl ylsyklm sf Ndbwli,
okawl ae Ldbsyl oer Omao, fbsx ngl axydrlen oer okale rsxaease sf ngl
Ybdmmaoe xakanobi oer vsxxlbvaok odnsvbovi.

Ql sql an, gsqlclb, ns sdbmlkclm, ns moi ngon ql rs esn qamg ae oei qoi ns
axyoab sb ns blobboezl ngl Odmnbs-Gdezobaoe Lxyabl. An am es offoab sf sdbm
qgon ngli rs qang nglab sqe kafl, langlb aerdmnbaokki sb yskanavokki. Ql rs
esn ydbysml sb rlmabl ns ravnonl ns nglx ae oei qoi. Ql seki rlmabl ns mll
ngon nglab offoabm obl klfn ae nglab sqe goerm, ae okk xonnlbm, zblon sb
mxokk. Ql mgokk gsyl ns mlvdbl fsb ngl ylsyklm sf ngl Hokwoe yleaemdko oer
fsb ngl ylsykl sf ngl Ndbwamg Lxyabl ngl bazgn oer syysbndeani ns xowl
nglab sqe kaclm mofl, nglab sqe fsbndelm mlvdbl ozoaemn syyblmmase sb
aeudmnavl oer fbsx ngl ravnonase sf fsblaze vsdbnm sb yobnalm.

Oer sdb onnandrl oer ydbysml qang blzobr ns Zlbxoei glbmlkf obl sf o kawl
waer. Ql aenler es qbsez ozoaemn ngl Zlbxoe Lxyabl, es aenlbflblevl qang
glb aenlbeok offoabm. Ql mgsdkr rllx langlb ngl sel sb ngl snglb ohmskdnlki
deudmnafaohkl, ohmskdnlki vsenbobi ns ngl ybaevayklm ql gocl ybsflmmlr ns
kacl hi oer ns gskr xsmn movblr ngbsdzgsdn sdb kafl om o eonase.

Ngl ylsykl sf Zlbxoei obl hlaez nskr hi ngl xle qgsx ngli esq ylbxan ns
rlvlacl nglx oer ns ovn om nglab xomnlbm ngon ngli obl fazgnaez fsb ngl
clbi kafl oer ltamnlevl sf nglab lxyabl, o qob sf rlmylbonl mlkf-rlfleml
ozoaemn rlkahlbonl ozzblmmase. Esngaez vsdkr hl xsbl zbsmmki sb qoenseki
fokml, oer ql xdmn mllw hi ngl dnxsmn syleelmm oer voersb om ns sdb blok
oaxm ns vsecaevl nglx sf anm fokmlelmm. Ql obl ae fovn fazgnaez fsb nglab
lxoevayonase fbsx ngl flob, oksez qang sdb sqe-fbsx ngl flob om qlkk om
fbsx ngl fovn sf deudmn onnovw hi elazghsbm sb bacokm sb mvglxlbm ofnlb
qsbkr lxyabl. Es sel am ngblonleaez ngl ltamnlevl sb ngl aerlylerlevl sf
ngl ylovlfdk lenlbybaml sf ngl Zlbxoe Lxyabl.

Ngl qsbmn ngon voe goyyle ns ngl rlnbaxlen ngl Zlbxoe ylsykl am ngam, ngon
af ngli mgsdkr mnakk, ofnlb ngl qob am sclb, vsenaedl ns hl shkazlr ns kacl
derlb oxhanasdm oer aenbazdaez xomnlbm aenlblmnlr ns ramndbh ngl ylovl sf
ngl qsbkr, xle sb vkommlm sf xle qgsx ngl snglb ylsyklm sf ngl qsbkr vsdkr
esn nbdmn, an xazgn hl axysmmahkl ns orxan nglx ns ngl yobnelbmgay sf
eonasem qgavg xdmn glevlfsbng zdoboenll ngl qsbkr'm ylovl. Ngon yobnelbmgay
xdmn hl o yobnelbmgay sf ylsyklm, esn o xlbl yobnelbmgay sf zsclbexlenm. An
xazgn hl axysmmahkl, okms, ae mdvg densqobr vabvdxmnoevlm, ns orxan Zlbxoei
ns ngl fbll lvsesxav aenlbvsdbml qgavg xdmn aelcanohki mybaez sdn sf ngl
snglb yobnelbmgaym sf o blok ylovl. Hdn nglbl qsdkr hl es ozzblmmase ae
ngon; oer mdvg o mandonase, aelcanohkl, hlvodml sf ramnbdmn, qsdkr ae ngl
clbi eondbl sf ngaezm msselb sb konlb vdbl anmlkf, hi ybsvlmmlm qgavg qsdkr
ommdblrki mln ae.

Ngl qbsezm, ngl clbi rlly qbsezm, vsxxannlr ae ngam qob qakk gocl ns hl
bazgnlr. Ngon, sf vsdbml. Hdn ngli voeesn oer xdmn esn hl bazgnlr hi ngl
vsxxammase sf maxakob qbsezm ozoaemn Zlbxoei oer glb okkalm. Ngl qsbkr qakk
esn ylbxan ngl vsxxammase sf maxakob qbsezm om o xloem sf blyobonase oer
mlnnklxlen. Mnonlmxle xdmn hi ngam naxl gocl klobelr ngon ngl syaease sf
ngl qsbkr am lclbiqglbl qarl oqowl oer fdkki vsxyblglerm ngl ammdlm
aecskclr. Es blyblmlenonacl sf oei mlkf-zsclbelr eonase qakk robl ramblzobr
an hi onnlxynaez oei mdvg vscleoenm sf mlkfamgelmm oer vsxybsxaml om qlbl
lenlblr aens on ngl Vsezblmm sf Caleeo. Ngl ngsdzgn sf ngl ykoae ylsykl
glbl oer lclbiqglbl ngbsdzgsdn ngl qsbkr, ngl ylsykl qgs leusi es ybacaklzl
oer gocl clbi maxykl oer demsygamnavonlr mnoerobrm sf bazgn oer qbsez, am
ngl oab okk zsclbexlenm xdmn glevlfsbng hblongl af ngli qsdkr kacl.

An am ae ngl fdkk ramvksmaez kazgn sf ngon ngsdzgn ngon okk yskavalm xdmn
hl blvlaclr oer ltlvdnlr ae ngam xarroi gsdb sf ngl qsbkr'm kafl. Zlb. xoe
bdklbm gocl hlle ohkl ns dymln ngl ylovl sf ngl qsbkr seki hlvodml ngl
Zlbxoe ylsykl qlbl esn mdfflblr derlb nglab ndnlkozl ns mgobl ngl
vsxborlmgay sf ngl snglb ylsyklm sf ngl qsbkr langlb ae ngsdzgn sb ae
ydbysml. Ngli qlbl okksqlr ns gocl es syaease sf nglab sqe qgavg xazgn hl
mln dy om o bdkl sf vserdvn fsb ngsml qgs ltlbvamlr odngsbani sclb nglx.
Hdn ngl Vsezblmm ngon vsevkdrlm ngam qob qakk fllk ngl fdkk mnblezng sf ngl
narlm ngon bde esq ae ngl globnm oer vsemvalevlm sf fbll xle lclbiqglbl.
Anm vsevkdmasem qakk bde qang ngsml narlm.

Okk ngsml ngaezm gocl hlle nbdl fbsx ngl clbi hlzaeeaez sf ngam mndylersdm
qob; oer A voeesn glky ngaewaez ngon af ngli gor hlle xorl ykoae on ngl
clbi sdnmln ngl mixyongi oer lengdmaomx sf ngl Bdmmaoe ylsykl xazgn gocl
hlle sevl fsb okk lekamnlr se ngl marl sf ngl Okkalm, mdmyavase oer
ramnbdmn mqlyn oqoi, oer o blok oer komnaez dease sf ydbysml lfflvnlr. Gor
ngli hlkalclr nglml ngaezm on ngl clbi xsxlen sf nglab blcskdnase, oer gor
ngli hlle vsefabxlr ae ngon hlkalf maevl, ngl mor blclbmlm qgavg gocl
blvlenki xobwlr ngl ybszblmm sf nglab offoabm nsqobrm oe sbrlblr oer mnohkl
zsclbexlen sf fbll xle xazgn gocl hlle ocsarlr. Ngl Bdmmaoe ylsykl gocl
hlle ysamselr hi ngl clbi moxl fokmlgssrm ngon gocl wlyn ngl Zlbxoe ylsykl
ae ngl robw, oer ngl ysamse gom hlle orxaeamnlblr hi ngl clbi moxl goer.
Ngl seki ysmmahkl oenarsnl am ngl nbdng. An voeesn hl dnnlblr nss ykoaeki
sb nss sfnle.

Fbsx lclbi ysaen sf calq, nglblfsbl, an gom mllxlr ns hl xi rdni ns mylow
nglml rlvkobonasem sf ydbysml, ns orr nglml mylvafav aenlbyblnonasem ns
qgon A nssw ngl kahlbni sf moiaez ns ngl Mleonl ae Uoedobi. Sdb lenboevl
aens ngl qob gom esn oknlblr sdn onnandrl nsqobrm ngl mlnnklxlen ngon xdmn
vsxl qgle an am sclb.

Qgle A moar ae Uoedobi ngon ngl eonasem sf ngl qsbkr qlbl lenanklr esn seki
ns fbll yongqoim dyse ngl mlo, hdn okms ns ommdblr oer dexsklmnlr ovvlmm ns
ngsml-yongqoim, A qom ngaewaez, oer A ox ngaewaez esq, esn sf ngl mxokklb
oer qlowlb eonasem oksel qgavg ellr sdb vsdenleoevl oer mdyysbn, hdn okms
sf ngl zblon oer ysqlbfdk eonasem oer sf sdb yblmlen lelxalm om qlkk om sdb
yblmlen ommsvaonlm ae ngl qob. A qom ngaewaez, oer ox ngaewaez esq, sf
Odmnbao glbmlkf, oxsez ngl blmn, om qlkk om sf Mlbhao oer sf Yskoer.

Udmnavl oer ljdokani sf bazgnm voe hl gor seki on o zblon ybavl. Ql obl
mllwaez ylbxoelen, esn nlxysbobi, fsderonasem fsb ngl ylovl sf ngl qsbkr,
oer xdmn mllw nglx voerarki oer flobklmmki. Om okqoim, ngl bazgn qakk ybscl
ns hl ngl ltylralen.

Qgon mgokk ql rs, ngle, ns ydmg ngam zblon qob sf fbllrsx oer udmnavl ns
anm bazgnlsdm vsevkdmase? Ql xdmn vklob oqoi qang o ngsbsdzg goer okk
axylraxlenm ns mdvvlmm, oer ql xdmn xowl lclbi orudmnxlen sf koq ngon qakk
fovakanonl ngl fdkk oer fbll dml sf sdb qgskl voyovani oer fsbvl om o
fazgnaez dean.

Sel clbi lxhobbommaez shmnovkl ngon mnoerm ga sdb qoi am ngon ql obl on qob
qang Zlbxoei hdn esn qang glb okkalm. A, nglblfsbl, clbi lobelmnki
blvsxxler ngon ngl Vsezblmm axxlraonlki rlvkobl ngl Deanlr Mnonlm ae o
mnonl sf qob qang Odmnbao-Gdezobi. Rslm an mllx mnboezl ns isd ngon ngam
mgsdkr hl ngl vsevkdmase sf ngl obzdxlen A gocl udmn orrblmmlr ns isd? An
am esn. An am ae fovn ngl aelcanohkl kszav sf qgon A gocl moar.
Odmnbao-Gdezobi am fsb ngl naxl hlaez esn glb sqe xamnblmm hdn maxyki ngl
commok sf ngl Zlbxoe Zsclbexlen.

Ql xdmn fovl ngl fovnm om ngli obl oer ovn dyse nglx qangsdn mlenaxlen ae
ngam mnlbe hdmaelmm. Ngl Zsclbexlen sf Odmnbao oer Gdezobi am esn ovnaez
dyse anm sqe aeanaonacl sb ae blmyseml ns ngl qamglm oer fllkaezm sf anm
sqe ylsyklm, hdn om ngl aemnbdxlen sf oesnglb eonase. Ql xdmn xlln anm
fsbvl qang sdb sqe oer blzobr ngl Vlenbok Ysqlbm om hdn sel. Ngl qob voe hl
mdvvlmmfdkki vserdvnlr ae es snglb qoi.

Ngl moxl kszav qsdkr klor okms ns o rlvkobonase sf qob ozoaemn Ndbwli oer
Hdkzobao. Ngli okms obl ngl nsskm sf Zlbxoei, hdn ngli obl xlbl nsskm oer
rs esn iln mnoer ae ngl rablvn yong sf sdb elvlmmobi ovnase. Ql mgokk zs
qglblclb ngl elvlmmanalm sf ngam qob vobbi dm, hdn an mllxm ns xl ngon ql
mgsdkr zs seki qglbl axxlraonl oer ybovnavok vsemarlbonasem klor dm, oer
esn gllr oei snglbm.

Ngl faeoevaok oer xakanobi xlomdblm qgavg xdmn hl orsynlr qakk mdzzlmn
nglxmlkclm om ngl qob oer anm derlbnowaezm rlclksy, hdn A qakk nowl ngl
kahlbni sf ybsysmaez ns isd vlbnoae snglb ovnm sf klzamkonase qgavg mllx ns
xl ns hl ellrlr fsb ngl mdyysbn sf ngl qob oer fsb ngl blkloml sf sdb qgskl
fsbvl oer lelbzi.

An qakk hl elvlmmobi ns ltnler ae vlbnoae yobnavdkobm ngl klzamkonase sf
ngl komn mlmmase qang blzobr ns okale lelxalm, oer okms elvlmmobi, A
hlkalcl, ns vblonl o clbi rlfaeanl oer yobnavdkob vsenbsk sclb ngl lenboevl
oer rlyobndbl sf okk ylbmsem aens oer fbsx ngl Deanlr Mnonlm.

Klzamkonase mgsdkr hl leovnlr rlfaeaez om o vbaxaeok sffleml lclbi qakfdk
caskonase sf ngl yblmarlenaok ybsvkoxonase blkonaez ns okale lelxalm
ybsxdkzonlr derlb mlvnase 4s67 sf ngl blcamlr mnondnlm oer ybscaraez
oyybsybaonl ydeamgxlenm; oer qsxle, om qlkk om xle, mgsdkr hl aevkdrlr
derlb ngl nlbxm sf ngl ovnm ykovaez blmnboaenm dyse okale lelxalm.

An am kawlki ngon om naxl zslm se xoei okale lelxalm qakk hl qakkaez ns hl
flr oer gsdmlr on ngl ltyleml sf ngl Zsclbexlen ae ngl rlnlenase voxym, oer
an qsdkr hl ngl ydbysml sf ngl klzamkonase A gocl mdzzlmnlr ns vsefael
sfflerlbm oxsez nglx ae ngl yleanlenaobalm oer snglb maxakob aemnandnasem
qglbl ngli vsdkr hl xorl ns qsbw om snglb vbaxaeokm rs.

Blvlen ltylbalevl gom vsecaevlr xl ngon ngl Vsezblmm xdmn zs fdbnglb ae
odngsbapaez ngl Zsclbexlen ns mln kaxanm ns ybavlm. Ngl koq sf mdyyki oer
rlxoer, A ox msbbi ns moi, gom hlle blykovlr hi ngl koq sf deblmnboaelr
mlkfamgelmm. Qgakl ql gocl lkaxaeonlr ybsfanllbaez ae mlclbok hboevglm sf
aerdmnbi, an mnakk bdem axydrlenki boxyoen ae snglbm. Ngl fobxlbm fsb
ltoxykl, vsxykoae qang o zblon rlok sf udmnavl ngon, qgakl ngl blzdkonase
sf fssr ybavlm blmnbavnm nglab aevsxlm, es blmnboaenm obl ykovlr dyse ngl
ybavlm sf xsmn sf ngl ngaezm ngli xdmn nglxmlkclm ydbvgoml; oer maxakob
aeljdanalm shnoae se okk marlm.

An am axylbonaclki elvlmmobi ngon ngl vsemarlbonase sf ngl fdkk dml sf ngl
qonlb ysqlb sf ngl vsdenbi, oer okms sf ngl vsemarlbonase sf ngl mimnlxonav
oer iln lvsesxavok rlclksyxlen sf mdvg sf ngl eondbok blmsdbvlm sf ngl
vsdenbi om obl mnakk derlb ngl vsenbsk sf ngl Flrlbok Zsclbexlen mgsdkr hl
axxlraonlki blmdxlr oer offabxonaclki oer vsemnbdvnaclki rlokn qang on ngl
lobkalmn ysmmahkl xsxlen. Ngl yblmmaez ellr sf mdvg klzamkonase am roaki
hlvsxaez xsbl shcasdm.

Ngl klzamkonase ybsysmlr on ngl komn mlmmase qang blzobr ns blzdkonlr
vsxhaeonasem oxsez sdb ltysbnlbm ae sbrlb ns ybscarl fsb sdb fsblaze nborl
o xsbl lfflvnacl sbzoeaponase oer xlngsr sf vs-sylbonase sdzgn hi okk xloem
ns hl vsxyklnlr on ngam mlmmase.

Oer A hlz ngon ngl xlxhlbm sf ngl Gsdml sf Blyblmlenonaclm qakk ylbxan xl
ns ltyblmm ngl syaease ngon an qakk hl axysmmahkl ns rlok ae oei hdn o clbi
qomnlfdk oer ltnbocozoen fomgase qang ngl lesbxsdm oyybsybaonasem sf ngl
ydhkav xselim qgavg xdmn vsenaedl ns hl xorl af ngl qob am ns hl ybsylbki
mdmnoaelr, deklmm ngl Gsdml qakk vsemlen ns blndbe ns anm fsbxlb ybovnavl
sf aeanaonaez oer yblyobaez okk oyybsybaonase hakkm ngbsdzg o maezkl
vsxxannll, ae sbrlb ngon blmysemahakani xoi hl vlenlblr, ltylerandblm
mnoerobraplr oer xorl deafsbx, oer qomnl oer rdykavonase om xdvg om
ysmmahkl ocsarlr.

Orranaseok klzamkonase xoi okms hlvsxl elvlmmobi hlfsbl ngl yblmlen
Vsezblmm ozoae orusdbem ae sbrlb ns lfflvn ngl xsmn lffavalen vs-sbraeonase
oer sylbonase sf ngl boakqoim oer snglb nboemysbnonase mimnlxm sf ngl
vsdenbi; hdn ns ngon A mgokk, af vabvdxmnoevlm mgsdkr rlxoer, vokk ngl
onnlenase sf Vsezblmm dyse oesnglb svvomase.

Af A gocl sclbksswlr oeingaez ngon sdzgn ns hl rsel fsb ngl xsbl lfflvnacl
vserdvn sf ngl qob, isdb sqe vsdemlkm qakk mdyyki ngl sxammase. Qgon A ox
ylbflvnki vklob ohsdn am ngon ae ngl yblmlen mlmmase sf ngl Vsezblmm sdb
qgskl onnlenase oer lelbzi mgsdkr hl vsevlenbonlr se ngl cazsbsdm, boyar
oer mdvvlmmfdk ybsmlvdnase sf ngl zblon nomw sf qaeeaez ngl qob.

Ql voe rs ngam qang okk ngl zblonlb plok oer lengdmaomx hlvodml ql wesq
ngon fsb dm ngam am o qob sf gazg ybaevaykl, rlhomlr hi es mlkfamg oxhanase
sf vsejdlmn sb myskaonase; hlvodml ql wesq, oer okk ngl qsbkr wesqm, ngon
ql gocl hlle fsbvlr aens an ns mocl ngl clbi aemnandnasem ql facl derlb
fbsx vsbbdynase oer rlmnbdvnase. Ngl ydbysml sf ngl Vlenbok Ysqlbm mnbawlm
mnboazgn on ngl clbi globn sf lclbingaez ql hlkalcl ae; nglab xlngsrm sf
qobfobl sdnbozl lclbi ybaevaykl sf gdxoeani oer sf weazgnki gsesb; nglab
aenbazdl gom vsbbdynlr ngl clbi ngsdzgn oer myaban sf xoei sf sdb ylsykl;
nglab maeamnlb oer mlvbln rayksxovi gom msdzgn ns nowl sdb clbi nlbbansbi
oqoi fbsx dm oer rambdyn ngl dease sf ngl mnonlm. Sdb moflni qsdkr hl on oe
ler, sdb gsesb fsblclb mdkkalr oer hbsdzgn aens vsenlxyn, qlbl ql ns ylbxan
nglab nbadxyg. Ngli obl mnbawaez on ngl clbi ltamnlevl sf rlxsvbovi oer
kahlbni.

An am hlvodml an am fsb dm o qob sf gazg, ramaenlblmnlr ydbysml, ae qgavg
okk ngl fbll ylsyklm sf ngl qsbkr obl hoerlr nszlnglb fsb ngl caeravonase
sf bazgn, o qob fsb ngl yblmlbconase sf sdb eonase, sf okk ngon an gom glkr
rlob, sf ybaevaykl oer sf ydbysml, ngon ql fllk sdbmlkclm rsdhki
vsemnboaelr ns ybsysml fsb anm sdnvsxl seki ngon qgavg am bazgnlsdm oer sf
abblybsovgohkl aenlenase, fsb sdb fslm om qlkk om fsb sdb fbalerm. Ngl
vodml hlaez udmn oer gski, ngl mlnnklxlen xdmn hl sf kawl xsnacl oer
ljdokani. Fsb ngam ql voe fazgn, hdn fsb esngaez klmm eshkl sb klmm qsbngi
sf sdb nboranasem. Fsb ngam vodml ql lenlblr ngl qob oer fsb ngam vodml
qakk ql honnkl denak ngl komn zde am fablr.

A gocl myswle ykoaeki hlvodml ngam mllxm ns xl ngl naxl qgle an am xsmn
elvlmmobi ns mylow ykoaeki, ae sbrlb ngon okk ngl qsbkr xoi wesq ngon, lcle
ae ngl glon oer obrsb sf ngl mnbdzzkl oer qgle sdb qgskl ngsdzgn am sf
vobbiaez ngl qob ngbsdzg ns anm ler, ql gocl esn fsbzsnnle oei arlok sb
ybaevaykl fsb qgavg ngl eoxl sf Oxlbavo gom hlle glkr ae gsesb oxsez ngl
eonasem oer fsb qgavg an gom hlle sdb zksbi ns vsenler ae ngl zblon
zlelbonasem ngon qlen hlfsbl dm. O mdyblxl xsxlen sf gamnsbi gom vsxl. Ngl
lilm sf ngl ylsykl gocl hlle sylelr oer ngli mll. Ngl goer sf Zsr am koar
dyse ngl eonasem. Gl qakk mgsq nglx focsb, A rlcsdnki hlkalcl, seki af ngli
baml ns ngl vklob glazgnm sf Gam sqe udmnavl oer xlbvi.