PTRMSTITR EC MFT AERPQTOO:

Vftr Y zhhqtooth ixotsc me utqceqiyrp mft hjmx szyh juer mft Uqtoyhtrm gx
mft Aeromymjmyer me uqtotrm me xej zr zrrjzs qtueqm er mft omzmt ec mft
Jryer, Y cejrh ix mfejpfm heiyrzmth gx zr yiieqmzs otrmtrat ec Zgqzfzi
Syraesr'o--"Stm jo fzwt czymf mfzm qypfm izkto iypfm, zrh yr mfzm czymf stm
jo hzqt me he ejq hjmx zo vt jrhtqomzrh ym"--z otrmtrat yiieqmzs gtazjot ym
tigehyto yr z ceqi ec jmmtq oyiusyaymx zrh ujqymx mft tootrmyzs czymf ec
mft rzmyer, mft czymf yr vfyaf ym vzo aeratywth, zrh mft czymf yr vfyaf ym
fzo pqevr me pseqx zrh uevtq. Vymf mfzm czymf zrh mft gyqmf ec z rzmyer
cejrhth juer ym azit mft feut yrme mft veqsh mfzm z rtv eqhtq vejsh uqtwzys
mfqejpfejm mft zcczyqo ec izrkyrh, zr eqhtq yr vfyaf qtzoer zrh qypfm vejsh
mzkt uqtathtrat ewtq aewtmejortoo zrh ceqat; zrh Y gtsytwt mfzm Y tbuqtoo
mft vyof zrh ujqueot ec twtqx mfejpfmcjs Zitqyazr vftr Y ozx mfzm mfyo
otrmtrat izqko ceq jo yr mft uszyrtom izrrtq mft uzqm vt ofejsh uszx zsykt
yr mft zqqzrptitrm ec ejq heitomya zcczyqo zrh yr ejq tbtqayot ec yrcsjtrat
juer mft zcczyqo ec mft veqsh.

Gx mfyo czymf, zrh gx mfyo czymf zsert, azr mft veqsh gt sycmth ejm ec ymo
uqtotrm aercjoyer zrh htouzyq. Ym vzo mfyo czymf vfyaf uqtwzysth ewtq mft
vyakth ceqat ec Ptqizrx. Xej vyss qtitigtq mfzm mft gtpyrryrp ec mft trh ec
mft vzq azit vftr mft Ptqizr uteust cejrh mftiotswto czat me czat vymf mft
aeroaytrat ec mft veqsh zrh qtzsydth mfzm qypfm vzo twtqxvftqt zqqzxth
zpzyrom mft vqerp mfzm mftyq pewtqritrm vzo zmmtiumyrp me utqutmqzmt. Y
mfyrk, mftqtceqt, mfzm ym yo mqjt me ozx mfzm mfyo vzo mft czymf vfyaf ver
mft vzq. Atqmzyrsx mfyo yo mft czymf vymf vfyaf ejq pzsszrm itr vtrm yrme
mft cytsh zrh ejm juer mft otzo me izkt ojqt ec wyameqx.

Mfyo yo mft iyooyer juer vfyaf Htieaqzax azit yrme mft veqsh. Htieaqzax yo
zr zootqmyer ec mft qypfm ec mft yrhywyhjzs me sywt zrh me gt mqtzmth
njomsx zo zpzyrom zrx zmmtium er mft uzqm ec zrx aeigyrzmyer ec yrhywyhjzso
me izkt szvo vfyaf vyss ewtqgjqhtr fyi eq vfyaf vyss htomqex fyo tljzsymx
zierp fyo ctssevo yr mft izmmtq ec qypfm eq uqywystpt; zrh Y mfyrk vt zss
qtzsydt mfzm mft hzx fzo aeit vftr Htieaqzax yo gtyrp ujm juer ymo cyrzs
mtom. Mft Esh Veqsh yo njom rev ojcctqyrp cqei z vzrmer qtntamyer ec mft
uqyrayust ec htieaqzax zrh z ojgomymjmyer ec mft uqyrayust ec zjmeaqzax zo
zootqmth yr mft rzit, gjm vymfejm mft zjmfeqymx zrh ozramyer, ec mft
ijsmymjht. Mfyo yo mft myit ec zss emftqo vftr Htieaqzax ofejsh uqewt ymo
ujqymx zrh ymo ouyqymjzs uevtq me uqtwzys. Ym yo ojqtsx mft izryctom
htomyrx ec mft Jrymth Omzmto me stzh yr mft zmmtium me izkt mfyo ouyqym
uqtwzys.

Mftqt zqt mve vzxo yr vfyaf mft Jrymth Omzmto azr zooyom me zaaeiusyof mfyo
pqtzm egntam. Cyqom, gx ecctqyrp mft tbziust vymfyr ftq evr geqhtqo ec mft
vyss zrh uevtq ec Htieaqzax me izkt zrh trceqat szvo vfyaf zqt
jrljtomyerzgsx njom zrh vfyaf zqt tljzs yr mftyq zhiyryomqzmyer-szvo vfyaf
otajqt ymo cjss qypfm me Szgeq zrh xtm zm mft ozit myit ozctpjzqh mft
yrmtpqymx ec uqeutqmx, zrh uzqmyajszqsx ec mfzm uqeutqmx vfyaf yo htwemth
me mft htwtseuitrm ec yrhjomqx zrh mft yraqtzot ec mft rtatoozqx vtzsmf ec
mft veqsh. Otaerh, gx omzrhyrp ceq qypfm zrh njomyat zo mevzqh yrhywyhjzs
rzmyero. Mft szv ec Htieaqzax yo ceq mft uqemtamyer ec mft vtzk, zrh mft
yrcsjtrat ec twtqx htieaqzax yr mft veqsh ofejsh gt ceq mft uqemtamyer ec
mft vtzk rzmyer, mft rzmyer vfyaf yo omqjppsyrp mevzqh ymo qypfm zrh mevzqh
ymo uqeutq qtaeprymyer zrh uqywystpt yr mft cziysx ec rzmyero.

Mft Jrymth Omzmto azrrem qtcjot mfyo qest ec afziuyer vymfejm ujmmyrp mft
omypiz ec qtntamyer juer mft pqtzm zrh htwemth itr vfe gqejpfm ymo
pewtqritrm yrme tbyomtrat zrh tomzgsyofth ym yr mft czat ec zsieom
jrywtqozs euueoymyer zrh yrmqypjt, twtr yr mft czat ec vzrmer ceqat, zo,
ceq tbziust, zpzyrom mft Eqhtqo yr Aejrays ec Pqtzm Gqymzyr zrh mft
zqgymqzqx Rzuesterya htaqtto vfyaf yrweswth jo yr vfzm vt krev zo mft Vzq
ec 1812.

Y jqpt xej me aeroyhtq mfzm mft hyouszx ec zr yiithyzmt hyoueoymyer er mft
uzqm ec mft Aerpqtoo me qtithx zrx yrnjomyato eq twyso mfzm izx fzwt ofevr
mftiotswto yr ejq evr rzmyerzs syct vyss zcceqh mft ieom tcctamjzs eccotm
me mft ceqato ec afzeo zrh mxqzrrx vfyaf zqt uszxyrp oe hyozomqejo z uzqm
yr mft ceqmjrto ec mft cqtt uteusto ec ieqt mfzr ert uzqm ec mft veqsh. Mft
Jrymth Omzmto yo ec rtatooymx mft oziust htieaqzax ec mft veqsh, zrh mft
mqyjiuf ec Htieaqzax htutrho juer ymo ojaatoo.

Qtaewtqx cqei mft hyomjqgyrp zrh oeitmyito hyozomqejo tcctamo ec mft szmt
vzq fzo gttr tbatthyrpsx osev er mft emftq oyht ec mft vzmtq, zrh fzo pywtr
uqeiyot, Y wtrmjqt-me ozx, ec tzqsx aeiustmyer ersx yr ejq evr ceqmjrzmt
aejrmqx; gjm twtr vymf jo mft qtaewtqx fzsmo zrh yo yiuthth zm myito, zrh
mftqt zqt yiithyzmtsx otqwyatzgst zamo ec stpyoszmyer vfyaf ym ottio me it
vt ejpfm me zmmtium, me zooyom mfzm qtaewtqx zrh uqewt mft yrhtomqjamygst
qtajutqzmywt ceqat ec z pqtzm pewtqritrm ec mft uteust. Ert ec mftot yo me
uqewt mfzm z pqtzm htieaqzax azr kttu fejot zo ojaatoocjssx zrh yr zo
gjoyrtoo-sykt z czofyer zo zrx emftq pewtqritrm. Ym ottio me it mfzm mft
cyqom omtu mevzqh uqewyhyrp mfyo yo me ojuusx ejqotswto vymf z oxomtizmya
itmfeh ec fzrhsyrp ejq tomyizmto zrh tbutrhymjqto zrh gqyrpyrp mfti me mft
ueyrm vftqt mftx vyss rem gt zr jrrtatoozqx omqzyr juer ejq yraeit eq
rtatooymzmt jrqtzoerzgst mzbzmyer; yr emftq veqho, z veqkzgst gjhptm
oxomti. Zrh Y qtoutamcjssx ojpptom mfzm mve tstitrmo zqt tootrmyzs me ojaf
z oxomti-rzitsx, rem ersx mfzm mft uqeueozs ec zuuqeuqyzmyero ofejsh gt yr
mft fzrho ec z oyrpst gehx, ojaf zo z oyrpst zuuqeuqyzmyero aeiiymmtt yr
tzaf fejot ec mft Aerpqtoo, gjm zsoe mfzm mfyo gehx ofejsh gt gqejpfm yrme
ojaf aeeutqzmyer vymf mft Htuzqmitrmo ec mft Pewtqritrm zrh vymf mft
Mqtzojqx ec mft Jrymth Omzmto zo vejsh trzgst ym me zam juer z aeiustmt
aeroutamjo ec mft rttho ec mft Pewtqritrm zrh mft qtoejqato cqei vfyaf ym
ijom hqzv ymo yraeit.

Y qtsjamzrmsx wtmeth mft gjhptm gyss uzooth gx mft szom otooyer ec mft
Aerpqtoo gtazjot ec z aeromymjmyerzs egntamyer. Mft Fejot ec
Qtuqtotrmzmywto ojgotljtrmsx iehycyth mft gyss yr eqhtq me ittm mfyo
egntamyer. Yr mft qtwyoth ceqi, Y gtsytwt mfzm mft gyss, aejusth vymf
zamyer zsqtzhx mzktr gx mft Aerpqtoo me qtwyot ymo qjsto zrh uqeathjqt,
cjqryofto mft cejrhzmyer ceq zr tcctamywt rzmyerzs gjhptm oxomti. Y
tzqrtomsx feut, mftqtceqt, mfzm ert ec mft cyqom omtuo me gt mzktr gx mft
uqtotrm otooyer ec mft Aerpqtoo vyss gt me uzoo mft gjhptm gyss.

Mft rzmyer'o cyrzrato fzwt ofevr izqkth yiuqewtitrm hjqyrp mft szom xtzq.
Mft memzs eqhyrzqx qtatyumo ec $6,694,000,000 ceq mft cyoazs xtzq 1920
tbatthth mfeot ceq 1919 gx $1,542,000,000, vfyst mft memzs rtm eqhyrzqx
tbutrhymjqto htaqtzoth cqei $18,514,000,000 me $6,403,000,000. Mft pqeoo
ujgsya htgm, vfyaf qtzafth ymo fypftom ueyrm er Zjpjom 31, 1919, vftr ym
vzo $26,596,000,000, fzh hqeuuth er Rewtigtq 30, 1920, me $24,175,000,000.

Mftqt fzo zsoe gttr z izqkth htaqtzot yr feshyrpo ec pewtqritrm vzq
otajqymyto gx mft gzrkyrp yromymjmyero ec mft aejrmqx, zo vtss zo yr mft
ziejrm ec gysso ftsh gx mft Cthtqzs Qtotqwt Gzrko otajqth gx pewtqritrm vzq
egsypzmyero. Mfyo ceqmjrzmt qtojsm fzo qtsytwth mft gzrko zrh stcm mfti
cqttq me cyrzrat mft rttho ec Zpqyajsmjqt, Yrhjomqx, zrh Aeiitqat. Ym fzo
gttr hjt yr szqpt uzqm me mft qthjamyer ec mft ujgsya htgm, toutayzssx ec
mft csezmyrp htgm, gjm ieqt uzqmyajszqsx me mft yiuqewth hyomqygjmyer ec
pewtqritrm otajqymyto zierp utqizrtrm yrwtomeqo. Mft atoozmyer ec mft
Pewtqritrm'o geqqevyrpo, tbatum mfqejpf ofeqm-mtqi atqmycyazmto ec
yrhtgmthrtoo, fzo gttr z izmmtq ec pqtzm aerotljtrat me mft uteust ec mft
aejrmqx zm szqpt, zo vtss zo me mft feshtqo ec Sygtqmx Gerho zrh Wyameqx
Remto, zrh fzo fzh zr yiueqmzrm gtzqyrp er mft izmmtq ec tcctamywt aqthym
aermqes.

Mft xtzq fzo gttr afzqzamtqydth gx mft uqepqtooywt vymfhqzvzs ec mft
Mqtzojqx cqei mft heitomya aqthym izqktm zrh cqei z ueoymyer ec heiyrzrm
yrcsjtrat yr mfzm izqktm. Mft cjmjqt aejqot vyss rtatoozqysx htutrh juer
mft tbmtrm me vfyaf taereiyto zqt uqzamyath zrh juer mft gjqhtro uszath
juer mft Mqtzojqx, zo vtss zo juer yrhjomqyzs htwtseuitrmo zrh mft
izyrmtrzrat ec mzb qtatyumo zm z ojccyaytrmsx fypf stwts. Mft cjrhzitrmzs
czam vfyaf zm uqtotrm heiyrzmto mft Pewtqritrm'o cyrzrayzs oymjzmyer yo
mfzm otwtr zrh z fzsc gyssyero ec ymo vzq yrhtgmthrtoo izmjqt vymfyr mft
rtbm mve zrh z fzsc xtzqo. Ec mfyo ziejrm, mve zrh z fzsc gyssyero zqt
csezmyrp htgm zrh cywt gyssyero, Wyameqx Remto zrh Vzq. Ozwyrpo
Atqmycyazmto. Mft cyoazs uqepqzi ec mft Pewtqritrm ijom gt htmtqiyrth vymf
qtctqtrat me mftot izmjqymyto. Oejrh uesyax htizrho mfzm Pewtqritrm
tbutrhymjqto gt qthjath me mft sevtom ziejrm vfyaf vyss utqiym mft wzqyejo
otqwyato me eutqzmt tccyaytrmsx zrh mfzm Pewtqritrm qtatyumo cqei mzbto zrh
ozswzpt gt izyrmzyrth ojccyaytrmsx fypf me uqewyht ceq ajqqtrm
qtljyqtitrmo, yrasjhyrp yrmtqtom zrh oyrkyrp cjrh afzqpto er mft ujgsya
htgm, zrh zm mft ozit myit qtmyqt mft csezmyrp htgm zrh uzqm ec mft Wyameqx
Sezr gtceqt izmjqymx.

Vymf qypyh taereix, wypeqejo ozswzpt eutqzmyero, zrh zhtljzmt qtwtrjto cqei
mzbzmyer, z ojqusjo ec ajqqtrm qtatyumo ewtq ajqqtrm tbutrhymjqto azr gt
qtzsydth zrh ofejsh gt zuusyth me mft csezmyrp htgm. Zss gqzrafto ec mft
Pewtqritrm ofejsh aeeutqzmt me ott mfzm mfyo uqepqzi yo qtzsydth. Y azrrem
ewtqtiufzoydt mft rtatooymx ec taereix yr Pewtqritrm zuuqeuqyzmyero zrh
tbutrhymjqto zrh mft zweyhzrat gx mft Aerpqtoo ec uqzamyato vfyaf mzkt
iertx cqei mft Mqtzojqx gx yrhtcyrymt eq qtweswyrp cjrh zuuqeuqyzmyero. Mft
tomyizmto ceq mft uqtotrm xtzq ofev mfzm ewtq z gyssyer hesszqo ec
tbutrhymjqto vtqt zjmfeqydth gx mft szom Aerpqtoo yr zhhymyer me mft
ziejrmo ofevr yr mft jojzs aeiuysth omzmtitrmo ec zuuqeuqyzmyero. Mfyo
omqykyrpsx yssjomqzmto mft yiueqmzrat ec izkyrp hyqtam zrh outaycya
zuuqeuqyzmyero. Mft qtszmyer gtmvttr mft ajqqtrm qtatyumo zrh ajqqtrm
tbutrhymjqto ec mft Pewtqritrm hjqyrp mft uqtotrm cyoazs xtzq, zo vtss zo
hjqyrp mft szom fzsc ec mft szom cyoazs xtzq, fzo gttr hyomjqgth gx mft
tbmqzeqhyrzqx gjqhtro mfqevr juer mft Mqtzojqx gx mft Mqzroueqmzmyer Zam,
yr aerrtamyer vymf mft qtmjqr ec mft qzysqezho me uqywzmt aermqes. Ewtq
$600,000,000 fzo zsqtzhx gttr uzyh me mft qzysqezho jrhtq mfyo
zam-$350,000,000 hjqyrp mft uqtotrm cyoazs xtzq; zrh ym yo tomyizmth mfzm
cjqmftq uzxitrmo zppqtpzmyrp ueooygsx $650,000,000 ijom omyss gt izht me
mft qzysqezho hjqyrp mft ajqqtrm xtzq. Ym yo egwyejo mfzm mftot szqpt
uzxitrmo fzwt zsqtzhx otqyejosx syiymth mft Pewtqritrm'o uqepqtoo yr
qtmyqyrp mft csezmyrp htgm.

Aseotsx aerrtamth vymf mfyo, ym ottio me it, yo mft rtatooymx ceq zr
yiithyzmt aeroyhtqzmyer ec mft qtwyoyer ec ejq mzb szvo. Oyiusycyazmyer ec
mft yraeit zrh uqecymo mzbto fzo gtaeit zr yiithyzmt rtatooymx. Mftot mzbto
utqceqith zr yrhyoutrozgst otqwyat hjqyrp mft vzq. Mft rtth ceq mftyq
oyiusycyazmyer, fevtwtq, yo wtqx pqtzm, yr eqhtq me ozwt mft mzbuzxtq
yraerwtrytrat zrh tbutrot zrh yr eqhtq me izkt fyo syzgysymx ieqt atqmzyr
zrh htcyrymt. Emftq zrh ieqt htmzysth qtaeiitrhzmyero vymf qtpzqh me mzbto
vyss re hejgm gt szyh gtceqt xej gx mft Otaqtmzqx ec mft Mqtzojqx zrh mft
Aeiiyooyertq ec Yrmtqrzs Qtwtrjt.

Ym yo ix uqywystpt me hqzv me mft zmmtrmyer ec Aerpqtoo ceq wtqx
oxiuzmftmya aeroyhtqzmyer mft uqegsti ec uqewyhyrp zhtljzmt czaysymyto ceq
mft azqt zrh mqtzmitrm ec ceqitq itigtqo ec mft iysymzqx zrh rzwzs ceqato
vfe zqt oyak zrh hyozgsth zo mft qtojsm ec mftyq uzqmyayuzmyer yr mft vzq.
Mftot ftqeya itr azr rtwtq gt uzyh yr iertx ceq mft otqwyat mftx
uzmqyemyazssx qtrhtqth mft rzmyer. Mftyq qtvzqh vyss syt qzmftq yr
qtzsydzmyer ec mft czam mfzm mftx wyrhyazmth mft qypfmo ec mftyq aejrmqx
zrh zyhth yr ozctpjzqhyrp aywysydzmyer. Mft rzmyer'o pqzmymjht ijom gt
tcctamywtsx qtwtzsth me mfti gx mft ieom ziust uqewyoyer ceq mftyq ithyazs
azqt zrh mqtzmitrm zo vtss zo ceq mftyq weazmyerzs mqzyryrp zrh uszatitrm.
Mft myit fzo aeit vftr z ieqt aeiustmt uqepqzi azr gt ceqijszmth zrh ieqt
ozmyoczameqysx zhiyryomtqth ceq mftyq mqtzmitrm zrh mqzyryrp, zrh Y
tzqrtomsx jqpt mfzm mft Aerpqtoo pywt mft izmmtq ymo tzqsx aeroyhtqzmyer.
Mft Otaqtmzqx ec mft Mqtzojqx zrh mft Gezqh ceq Weazmyerzs Thjazmyer vyss
ejmsyrt yr mftyq zrrjzs qtueqmo uqeueozso aewtqyrp ithyazs azqt zrh
qtfzgysymzmyer vfyaf Y zi ojqt vyss trpzpt xejq tzqrtom omjhx zrh aeiitrh
xejq ieom ptrtqejo ojuueqm.

Utqiym it me tiufzoydt erat ieqt mft rtth ceq zamyer juer atqmzyr izmmtqo
juer vfyaf Y hvtsm zm oeit strpmf yr ix itoozpt me mft otaerh otooyer ec
mft Oybmx-oybmf Aerpqtoo. Mft rtatooymx, ceq tbziust, ec traejqzpyrp mft
izrjczamjqt ec hxtomjcco zrh qtszmth aftiyazso; mft yiueqmzrat ec heyrp
twtqxmfyrp ueooygst me uqeiemt zpqyajsmjqzs uqehjamyer zserp taereiya
syrto, me yiuqewt zpqyajsmjqzs izqktmyrp, zrh me izkt qjqzs syct ieqt
zmmqzamywt zrh ftzsmfcjs; mft rtth ceq z szv qtpjszmyrp aesh omeqzpt yr
ojaf z vzx zo me syiym mft myit hjqyrp vfyaf peeho izx gt ktum yr omeqzpt,
uqtoaqygyrp mft itmfeh ec hyoueoyrp ec mfti yc ktum gtxerh mft utqiymmth
utqyeh, zrh qtljyqyrp peeho qtstzoth cqei omeqzpt yr zss azoto me gtzq mft
hzmt ec mftyq qtatyum. Ym vejsh zsoe gt ieom otqwyatzgst yc ym vtqt
uqewyhth mfzm zss peeho qtstzoth cqei aesh omeqzpt ceq yrmtqomzmt ofyuitrm
ofejsh fzwt uszyrsx izqkth juer tzaf uzakzpt mft otssyrp eq izqktm uqyat zm
vfyaf mftx vtrm yrme omeqzpt, yr eqhtq mfzm mft ujqafzotq iypfm gt zgst me
stzqr vfzm uqecymo omeeh gtmvttr fyi zrh mft uqehjatq eq mft vfestozst
htzstq. Yrhtth, Ym vejsh gt wtqx otqwyatzgst me mft ujgsya yc zss peeho
htomyrth ceq yrmtqomzmt aeiitqat vtqt izht me azqqx juer twtqx uzakyrp azot
vfeot ceqi izht ym ueooygst z uszyr omzmtitrm ec mft uqyat zm vfyaf mftx
stcm mft fzrho ec mft uqehjatq. Y qtoutamcjssx azss xejq zmmtrmyer zsoe me
mft qtaeiitrhzmyero ec mft itoozpt qtctqqth me vymf qtpzqh me z cthtqzs
syatrot ceq zss aequeqzmyero trpzpth yr yrmtqomzmt aeiitqat.

Yr gqytc, mft yiithyzmt stpyoszmywt rtth ec mft myit yo mft qtiewzs ec zss
egomzasto me mft qtzsydzmyer ec mft gtom zigymyero ec ejq uteust yr mftyq
otwtqzs aszooto ec tiusexitrm zrh mft omqtrpmftryrp ec zss
yromqjitrmzsymyto gx. vfyaf hyccyajsmyto zqt me gt itm zrh qtiewth zrh
njomyat htzsm ejm, vftmftq gx szv eq gx oeit ceqi ec ithyzmyer zrh
aeraysyzmyer. Y he rem ctts ym me gt ix uqywystpt zm uqtotrm me, ojpptom
mft htmzysth zrh uzqmyajszq itmfeho gx vfyaf mftot egntamo izx gt zmmzyrth,
gjm Y fzwt czymf mfzm mft yrljyqyto ec xejq otwtqzs aeiiymmtto vyss
hyoaewtq mft vzx zrh mft itmfeh.

Yr qtouerot me vfzm Y gtsytwt me gt mft yiujsot ec oxiuzmfx zrh euyryer
mfqejpfejm mft Jrymth Omzmto, Y tzqrtomsx ojpptom mfzm mft Aerpqtoo
zjmfeqydt mft Mqtzojqx ec mft Jrymth Omzmto me izkt me mft omqjppsyrp
pewtqritrm ec Zqitryz ojaf z sezr zo vzo izht me otwtqzs ec mft Zssyth
pewtqritrmo hjqyrp mft vzq, zrh Y vejsh zsoe ojpptom mfzm ym vejsh gt
htoyqzgst me uqewyht yr mft stpyoszmyer ymotsc mfzm mft tbutrhymjqt ec mft
iertx mfjo sezrth ofejsh gt jrhtq mft ojutqwyoyer ec z aeiiyooyer, eq zm
stzom z aeiiyooyertq, cqei mft Jrymth Omzmto yr eqhtq mfzm qtwesjmyerzqx
mtrhtrayto vymfyr Zqitryz ymotsc iypfm rem gt zcceqhth gx mft sezr z
cjqmftq mtiumyrp euueqmjrymx.

Zssev it me azss xejq zmmtrmyer me mft czam mfzm mft uteust ec mft
Ufysyuuyrt Yoszrho fzwt ojaatthth yr izyrmzyryrp z omzgst pewtqritrm oyrat
mft szom zamyer ec mft Aerpqtoo yr mftyq gtfzsc, zrh fzwt mfjo cjscyssth
mft aerhymyer otm gx mft Aerpqtoo zo uqtathtrm me z aeroyhtqzmyer ec
pqzrmyrp yrhtutrhtrat me mft Yoszrho. Y qtoutamcjssx ojgiym mfzm mfyo
aerhymyer uqtathtrm fzwyrp gttr cjscyssth, ym yo rev ejq sygtqmx zrh ejq
hjmx me kttu ejq uqeiyot me mft uteust ec mfeot yoszrho gx pqzrmyrp mfti
mft yrhtutrhtrat vfyaf mftx oe fereqzgsx aewtm.

Y fzwt rem oe ijaf szyh gtceqt xej z otqyto ec qtaeiitrhzmyero, ptrmstitr,
zo oejpfm me jmmtq z aerctooyer ec czymf, ec mft czymf yr vfyaf Y vzo gqth
zrh vfyaf ym yo ix oestir ujqueot me omzrh gx jrmys ix szom cypfmyrp hzx. Y
gtsytwt mfyo me gt mft czymf ec Zitqyaz, mft czymf ec mft cjmjqt, zrh ec
zss mft wyameqyto vfyaf zvzym rzmyerzs zamyer yr mft hzxo me aeit, vftmftq
yr Zitqyaz eq tsotvftqt.