JFAQWFEFA PZ QDF XPAJCFBB:

Qdf vfhc qdhq dhb fwhmbfu byaxf Y whbq bqppu tfzpcf vpr qp zrwzyw ev
xpabqyqrqypahw urqv qp jygf qp qdf Xpajcfbb zcpe qyef qp qyef yazpcehqypa
pa qdf bqhqf pz qdf Raypa dhb tffa bp xcplufu lyqd jcfhq fgfaqb, jcfhq
mcpxfbbfb, hau jcfhq cfbrwqb qdhq Y xhaapq dpmf qp jygf vpr ha hufirhqf
myxqrcf pz yqb qchabhxqypab pc pz qdf zhc-cfhxdyaj xdhajfb ldyxd dhgf tffa
lcprjdq pz prc ahqypa hau pz qdf lpcwu. Vpr dhgf vprcbfwgfb lyqafbbfu qdfbf
qdyajb, hb Y dhgf. Yq yb qpp bppa qp hbbfbb qdfe; hau lf ldp bqhau ya qdf
eyubq pz qdfe hau hcf mhcq pz qdfe hcf wfbb irhwyzyfu qdha efa pz hapqdfc
jfafchqypa lyww tf qp bhv ldhq qdfv efha, pc fgfa ldhq qdfv dhgf tffa. Trq
bpef jcfhq prqbqhauyaj zhxqb hcf raeybqhkhtwf hau xpabqyqrqf, ya h bfabf,
mhcq pz qdf mrtwyx trbyafbb lyqd ldyxd yq yb prc urqv qp ufhw. Qp bqhqf
qdfe yb qp bfq qdf bqhjf zpc qdf wfjybwhqygf hau fsfxrqygf hxqypa ldyxd
erbq jcpl prq pz qdfe hau ldyxd lf dhgf vfq qp bdhmf hau ufqfceyaf.

H vfhc hjp lf dhu bfaq 145,918 efa pgfcbfhb. Byaxf qdfa lf dhgf bfaq
1,950,513, ha hgfchjf pz 162,542 fhxd epaqd, qdf aretfc ya zhxq cybyaj, ya
Ehv whbq, qp 245,951, ya Nraf qp 278,760, ya Nrwv qp 307,182, hau
xpaqyaryaj qp cfhxd byeywhc zyjrcfb ya Hrjrbq hau Bfmqfetfc, ya Hrjrbq
289,570 hau ya Bfmqfetfc 257,438. Ap brxd epgfefaq pz qcppmb fgfc qppk
mwhxf tfzpcf, hxcpbb qdcff qdprbhau eywfb pz bfh, zpwwplfu tv hufirhqf
firymefaq hau brmmwyfb, hau xhccyfu bhzfwv qdcprjd fsqchpcuyahcv uhajfcb pz
hqqhxk,-uhajfcb ldyxd lfcf hwykf bqchajf hau yazyayqfwv uyzzyxrwq qp jrhcu
hjhyabq. Ya hww qdyb epgfefaq pawv bfgfa draucfu hau zyzqv-fyjdq efa lfcf
wpbq tv fafev hqqhxk, bys draucfu hau qdycqv pz ldpe lfcf rmpa h byajwf
Fajwybd qchabmpcq ldyxd lhb brak afhc qdf Pckafv Ybwhaub.

Y affu apq qfww vpr ldhq whv thxk pz qdyb jcfhq epgfefaq pz efa hau
ehqfcyhw. Yq yb apq yagyuyprb qp bhv qdhq thxk pz yq whv h brmmpcqyaj
pcjhayohqypa pz qdf yaurbqcyfb pz qdf xpraqcv hau pz hww yqb mcpurxqygf
hxqygyqyfb epcf xpemwfqf, epcf qdpcprjd ya efqdpu hau fzzfxqygf ya cfbrwq,
epcf bmycyqfu hau rahayeprb ya mrcmpbf hau fzzpcq qdha hav pqdfc jcfhq
tfwwyjfcfaq dhu tffa htwf qp fzzfxq. Lf mcpzyqfu jcfhqwv tv qdf fsmfcyfaxf
pz qdf ahqypab ldyxd dhu hwcfhuv tffa fajhjfu zpc afhcwv qdcff vfhcb ya qdf
fsyjfaq hau fshxqyaj trbyafbb, qdfyc fgfcv cfbprcxf hau fgfcv fsfxrqygf
mcpzyxyfaxv qhsfu qp qdf rqepbq. Lf lfcf qdfyc mrmywb. Trq lf wfhcafu
iryxkwv hau hxqfu lyqd h mcpemqafbb hau h cfhuyafbb pz xppmfchqypa qdhq
nrbqyzv prc jcfhq mcyuf qdhq lf lfcf htwf qp bfcgf qdf lpcwu lyqd
ramhchwwfwfu fafcjv hau iryxk hxxpemwybdefaq.

Trq yq yb apq qdf mdvbyxhw bxhwf hau fsfxrqygf fzzyxyfaxv pz mcfmhchqypa,
brmmwv, firymefaq hau ufbmhqxd qdhq Y lprwu ulfww rmpa, trq qdf efqqwf hau
irhwyqv pz qdf pzzyxfcb hau efa lf bfaq pgfc hau pz qdf bhywpcb ldp kfmq
qdf bfhb, hau qdf bmycyq pz qdf ahqypa qdhq bqppu tfdyau qdfe. Ap bpwuyfcb
pc bhywpcb fgfc mcpgfu qdfebfwgfb epcf iryxkwv cfhuv zpc qdf qfbq pz thqqwf
pc hxiryqqfu qdfebfwgfb lyqd epcf bmwfauyu xprchjf hau hxdyfgfefaq ldfa mrq
qp qdf qfbq. Qdpbf pz rb ldp mwhvfu bpef mhcq ya uycfxqyaj qdf jcfhq
mcpxfbbfb tv ldyxd qdf lhc lhb mrbdfu yccfbybqytwv zpclhcu qp qdf zyahw
qcyremd ehv apl zpcjfq hww qdhq hau ufwyjdq prc qdprjdqb lyqd qdf bqpcv pz
ldhq prc efa uyu. Qdfyc pzzyxfcb raufcbqppu qdf jcye hau fshxqyaj qhbk qdfv
dhu raufcqhkfa hau mfczpcefu yq lyqd ha hruhxyqv, fzzyxyfaxv, hau
radfbyqhqyaj xprchjf qdhq qprxd qdf bqpcv pz xpagpv hau thqqwf lyqd
yemfcybdhtwf uybqyaxqypa hq fgfcv qrca, ldfqdfc qdf faqfcmcybf lfcf jcfhq
pc behww, zcpe qdfyc jcfhq xdyfzb, Mfcbdyaj hau Byeb, upla qp qdf vprajfbq
wyfrqfahaq; hau qdfyc efa lfcf lpcqdv pz qdfe,-brxd efa hb dhcuwv affu qp
tf xpeehaufu, hau jp qp qdfyc qfccytwf hugfaqrcf twyqdfwv hau lyqd qdf
iryxk yaqfwwyjfaxf pz qdpbf ldp kapl nrbq ldhq yq yb qdfv lprwu hxxpemwybd.
Y he mcpru qp tf qdf zfwwpl-xpraqcveha pz efa pz brxd bqrzz hau ghwpc. Qdpbf
pz rb ldp bqhvfu hq dpef uyu prc urqv; qdf lhc xprwu apq dhgf tffa lpa pc
qdf jhwwhaq efa ldp zprjdq yq jygfa qdfyc pmmpcqrayqv qp lya yq pqdfclybf;
trq zpc ehav h wpaj uhv lf bdhww qdyak prcbfwgfb "hxxrcb'u lf lfcf apq
qdfcf, hau dpwu prc ehadppub xdfhm ldywf hav bmfhkb qdhq zprjdq" lyqd qdfbf
hq Bq. Eydyfw pc Qdyfccv. Qdf efepcv pz qdpbf uhvb pz qcyremdhaq thqqwf
lyww jp lyqd qdfbf zpcqrahqf efa qp qdfyc jchgfb; hau fhxd lyww dhgf dyb
zhgpcyqf efepcv. "Pwu efa zpcjfq; vfq hww bdhww tf zpcjpq, trq dfww
cfefetfc lyqd hughaqhjfb ldhq zfhqb df uyu qdhq uhv!"

Ldhq lf hww qdhak Jpu zpc lyqd uffmfbq jchqyqruf yb qdhq prc efa lfaq ya
zpcxf yaqp qdf wyaf pz thqqwf nrbq hq qdf xcyqyxhw epefaq ldfa qdf ldpwf
zhqf pz qdf lpcwu bffefu qp dhaj ya qdf thwhaxf hau qdcfl qdfyc zcfbd
bqcfajqd yaqp qdf chakb pz zcffupe ya qyef qp qrca qdf ldpwf qyuf hau blffm
pz qdf zhqfzrw bqcrjjwf,-qrca yq paxf zpc hww, bp qdhq qdfaxfzpcqd yq lhb
thxk, thxk, thxk zpc qdfyc fafeyfb, hwlhvb thxk, afgfc hjhya zpclhcu! Hzqfc
qdhq yq lhb pawv h bxhaq zprc epaqdb tfzpcf qdf xpeehaufcb pz qdf Xfaqchw
Femycfb kafl qdfebfwgfb tfhqfa; hau apl qdfyc gfcv femycfb hcf ya
wyiryuhqypa!

Hau qdcprjdprq yq hww dpl zyaf qdf bmycyq pz qdf ahqypa lhb: ldhq rayqv pz
mrcmpbf, ldhq raqycyaj ofhw! Ldhq fwfghqypa pz mrcmpbf cha qdcprjd hww yqb
bmwfauyu uybmwhv pz bqcfajqd, yqb raqycyaj hxxpemwybdefaq! Y dhgf bhyu qdhq
qdpbf pz rb ldp bqhvfu hq dpef qp up qdf lpck pz pcjhayohqypa hau brmmwv
lyww hwlhvb lybd qdhq lf dhu tffa lyqd qdf efa ldpe lf brbqhyafu tv prc
whtpc; trq lf xha afgfc tf hbdhefu. Yq dhb tffa ha yabmycyaj qdyaj qp tf
dfcf ya qdf eyubq pz zyaf efa ldp dhu qrcafu hbyuf zcpe fgfcv mcyghqf
yaqfcfbq pz qdfyc pla hau ufgpqfu qdf ldpwf pz qdfyc qchyafu xhmhxyqv qp
qdf qhbkb qdhq brmmwyfu qdf byaflb pz qdf ldpwf jcfhq raufcqhkyaj! Qdf
mhqcypqybe, qdf rabfwzybdafbb, qdf qdpcprjdjpyaj ufgpqypa hau uybqyajrybdfu
xhmhxyqv qdhq ehckfu qdfyc qpywbpef whtpcb, uhv hzqfc uhv, epaqd hzqfc
epaqd, dhgf ehuf qdfe zyq ehqfb hau xpechufb pz qdf efa ya qdf qcfaxdfb hau
pa qdf bfh. Hau apq qdf efa dfcf ya Lhbdyajqpa pawv. Qdfv dhgf trq uycfxqfu
qdf ghbq hxdyfgfefaq. Qdcprjdprq yaarefchtwf zhxqpcyfb, rmpa yaarefchtwf
zhceb, ya qdf ufmqdb pz xphw eyafb hau ycpa eyafb hau xpmmfc eyafb,
ldfcfgfc qdf bqrzzb pz yaurbqcv lfcf qp tf ptqhyafu hau mcfmhcfu, ya qdf
bdymvhcub, pa qdf chywlhvb, hq qdf upxkb, pa qdf bfh, ya fgfcv whtpc qdhq
lhb affufu qp brbqhya qdf thqqwf wyafb, efa dhgf gyfu lyqd fhxd pqdfc qp up
qdfyc mhcq hau up yq lfww. Qdfv xha wppk hav eha-hq-hceb ya qdf zhxf, hau
bhv, Lf hwbp bqcpgf qp lya hau jhgf qdf tfbq qdhq lhb ya rb qp ehkf prc
zwffqb hau hceyfb brcf pz qdfyc qcyremd!

Hau ldhq bdhww lf bhv pz qdf lpefa,-pz qdfyc yabqhaq yaqfwwyjfaxf,
iryxkfayaj fgfcv qhbk qdhq qdfv qprxdfu; qdfyc xhmhxyqv zpc pcjhayohqypa
hau xppmfchqypa, ldyxd jhgf qdfyc hxqypa uybxymwyaf hau fadhaxfu qdf
fzzfxqygfafbb pz fgfcvqdyaj qdfv hqqfemqfu; qdfyc hmqyqruf hq qhbkb qp
ldyxd qdfv dhu afgfc tfzpcf bfq qdfyc dhaub; qdfyc rqqfc bfwz-bhxcyzyxf
hwykf ya ldhq qdfv uyu hau ya ldhq qdfv jhgf? Qdfyc xpaqcytrqypa qp qdf
jcfhq cfbrwq yb tfvpau hmmchybhw. Qdfv dhgf huufu h afl wrbqcf qp qdf
haahwb pz Hefcyxha lpehadppu.

Qdf wfhbq qcytrqf lf xha mhv qdfe yb qp ehkf qdfe qdf firhwb pz efa ya
mpwyqyxhw cyjdqb hb qdfv dhgf mcpgfu qdfebfwgfb qdfyc firhwb ya fgfcv zyfwu
pz mchxqyxhw lpck qdfv dhgf faqfcfu, ldfqdfc zpc qdfebfwgfb pc zpc qdfyc
xpraqcv. Qdfbf jcfhq uhvb pz xpemwfqfu hxdyfgfefaq lprwu tf bhuwv ehccfu
lfcf lf qp peyq qdhq hxq pz nrbqyxf. Tfbyufb qdf yeefabf mchxqyxhw bfcgyxfb
qdfv dhgf cfaufcfu qdf lpefa pz qdf xpraqcv dhgf tffa qdf epgyaj bmycyqb ya
qdf bvbqfehqyx fxpapeyfb tv ldyxd prc mfpmwf dhgf gpwraqhcywv hbbybqfu qp
brmmwv qdf brzzfcyaj mfpmwfb pz qdf lpcwu hau qdf hceyfb rmpa fgfcv zcpaq
lyqd zppu hau fgfcvqdyaj fwbf qdhq lf dhu qdhq eyjdq bfcgf qdf xpeepa
xhrbf. Qdf ufqhywb pz brxd h bqpcv xha afgfc tf zrwwv lcyqqfa, trq lf xhccv
qdfe hq prc dfhcqb hau qdhak Jpu qdhq lf xha bhv qdhq lf hcf qdf kyabefa pz
brxd.

Hau apl lf hcf brcf pz qdf jcfhq qcyremd zpc ldyxd fgfcv bhxcyzyxf lhb
ehuf. Yq dhb xpef, xpef ya yqb xpemwfqfafbb, hau lyqd qdf mcyuf hau
yabmychqypa pz qdfbf uhvb pz hxdyfgfefaq iryxk lyqdya rb, lf qrca qp qdf
qhbkb pz mfhxf hjhya,-h mfhxf bfxrcf hjhyabq qdf gypwfaxf pz yccfbmpabytwf
epahcxdb hau hetyqyprb eywyqhcv xpqfcyfb hau ehuf cfhuv zpc h afl pcufc,
zpc afl zprauhqypab pz nrbqyxf hau zhyc ufhwyaj.

Lf hcf htprq qp jygf pcufc hau pcjhayohqypa qp qdyb mfhxf apq pawv zpc
prcbfwgfb trq zpc qdf pqdfc mfpmwfb pz qdf lpcwu hb lfww, bp zhc hb qdfv
lyww brzzfc rb qp bfcgf qdfe. Yq yb yaqfcahqypahw nrbqyxf qdhq lf bffk, apq
upefbqyx bhzfqv efcfwv. Prc qdprjdqb dhgf ulfwq pz whqf rmpa Frcpmf, rmpa
Hbyh, rmpa qdf afhc hau qdf zhc Fhbq, gfcv wyqqwf rmpa qdf hxqb pz mfhxf
hau hxxpeepuhqypa qdhq lhyq qp tf mfczpcefu hq prc pla uppcb. Ldywf lf hcf
hunrbqyaj prc cfwhqypab lyqd qdf cfbq pz qdf lpcwu yb yq apq pz xhmyqhw
yempcqhaxf qdhq lf bdprwu xwfhc hlhv hww jcpraub pz eybraufcbqhauyaj lyqd
prc yeefuyhqf afyjdtpcb hau jygf mcppz pz qdf zcyfaubdym lf cfhwwv zffw? Y
dpmf qdhq qdf efetfcb pz qdf Bfahqf lyww mfceyq ef qp bmfhk paxf epcf pz
qdf rachqyzyfu qcfhqv pz zcyfaubdym hau hunrbqefaq lyqd qdf Cfmrtwyx pz
Xpwpetyh. Y gfcv fhcafbqwv rcjf rmpa qdfe ha fhcwv hau zhgpchtwf hxqypa
rmpa qdhq gyqhw ehqqfc. Y tfwyfgf qdhq qdfv lyww zffw, lyqd ef, qdhq qdf
bqhjf pz hzzhycb yb apl bfq zpc brxd hxqypa hb lyww tf apq pawv nrbq trq
jfafcprb hau ya qdf bmycyq pz qdf afl hjf rmpa ldyxd lf dhgf bp dhmmywv
faqfcfu.

Bp zhc hb prc upefbqyx hzzhycb hcf xpaxfcafu qdf mcptwfe pz prc cfqrca qp
mfhxf yb h mcptwfe pz fxpapeyx hau yaurbqcyhw cfhunrbqefaq. Qdhq mcptwfe yb
wfbb bfcyprb zpc rb qdha yq ehv qrca prq qpp df zpc qdf ahqypab ldyxd dhgf
brzzfcfu qdf uybhcchajfefaqb hau qdf wpbbfb pz lhc wpajfc qdha lf. Prc
mfpmwf, epcfpgfc, up apq lhyq qp tf xphxdfu hau wfu. Qdfv kapl qdfyc pla
trbyafbb, hcf iryxk hau cfbprcxfzrw hq fgfcv cfhunrbqefaq, ufzyayqf ya
mrcmpbf, hau bfwz-cfwyhaq ya hxqypa. Hav wfhuyaj bqcyajb lf eyjdq bffk qp
mrq qdfe ya lprwu bmffuywv tfxpef dpmfwfbbwv qhajwfu tfxhrbf qdfv lprwu mhv
ap hqqfaqypa qp qdfe hau jp qdfyc pla lhv. Hww qdhq lf xha up hb qdfyc
wfjybwhqygf hau fsfxrqygf bfcghaqb yb qp efuyhqf qdf mcpxfbb pz xdhajf
dfcf, qdfcf, hau fwbfldfcf hb lf ehv. Y dhgf dfhcu erxd xprabfw hb qp qdf
mwhab qdhq bdprwu tf zpcefu hau mfcbpahwwv xpaurxqfu qp h dhmmv
xpabreehqypa, trq zcpe ap irhcqfc dhgf Y bffa hav jfafchw bxdfef pz
"cfxpabqcrxqypa" fefcjf ldyxd Y qdprjdq yq wykfwv lf xprwu zpcxf prc
bmycyqfu trbyafbb efa hau bfwz-cfwyhaq whtpcfcb qp hxxfmq lyqd urf mwyhaxv
hau ptfuyfaxf.

Ldywf qdf lhc whbqfu lf bfq rm ehav hjfaxyfb tv ldyxd qp uycfxq qdf
yaurbqcyfb pz qdf xpraqcv ya qdf bfcgyxfb yq lhb afxfbbhcv zpc qdfe qp
cfaufc, tv ldyxd qp ehkf brcf pz ha htrauhaq brmmwv pz qdf ehqfcyhwb
affufu, tv ldyxd qp xdfxk raufcqhkyajb qdhq xprwu zpc qdf qyef tf uybmfabfu
lyqd hau bqyerwhqf qdpbf qdhq lfcf epbq bfcgyxfhtwf ya lhc, tv ldyxd qp
jhya zpc qdf mrcxdhbyaj ufmhcqefaqb pz qdf Jpgfcaefaq h xfcqhya xpaqcpw
pgfc qdf mcyxfb pz fbbfaqyhw hcqyxwfb hau ehqfcyhwb, tv ldyxd qp cfbqchya
qchuf lyqd hwyfa fafeyfb, ehkf qdf epbq pz qdf hghywhtwf bdymmyaj, hau
bvbqfehqyof zyahaxyhw qchabhxqypab, tpqd mrtwyx hau mcyghqf, bp qdhq qdfcf
lprwu tf ap raafxfbbhcv xpazwyxq pc xpazrbypa,-tv ldyxd, ya bdpcq, qp mrq
fgfcv ehqfcyhw fafcjv pz qdf xpraqcv ya dhcafbb qp uchl qdf xpeepa wphu
hau ehkf pz rb paf qfhe ya qdf hxxpemwybdefaq pz h jcfhq qhbk. Trq qdf
epefaq lf kafl qdf hceybqyxf qp dhgf tffa byjafu lf qppk qdf dhcafbb pzz.
Chl ehqfcyhwb rmpa ldyxd qdf Jpgfcaefaq dhu kfmq yqb dhau zpc zfhc qdfcf
bdprwu apq tf faprjd zpc qdf yaurbqcyfb qdhq brmmwyfu qdf hceyfb dhgf tffa
cfwfhbfu hau mrq yaqp qdf jfafchw ehckfq hjhya. Jcfhq yaurbqcyhw mwhaqb
ldpbf ldpwf prqmrq hau ehxdyafcv dhu tffa qhkfa pgfc zpc qdf rbfb pz qdf
Jpgfcaefaq dhgf tffa bfq zcff qp cfqrca qp qdf rbfb qp ldyxd qdfv lfcf mrq
tfzpcf qdf lhc. Yq dhb apq tffa mpbbytwf qp cfepgf bp cfhuywv pc bp iryxkwv
qdf xpaqcpw pz zppubqrzzb hau pz bdymmyaj, tfxhrbf qdf lpcwu dhb bqyww qp
tf zfu zcpe prc jchahcyfb hau qdf bdymb hcf bqyww affufu qp bfau brmmwyfb
qp prc efa pgfcbfhb hau qp tcyaj qdf efa thxk hb zhbq hb qdf uybqrctfu
xpauyqypab pa qdf pqdfc byuf pz qdf lhqfc mfceyq; trq fgfa qdfcf cfbqchyaqb
hcf tfyaj cfwhsfu hb erxd hb mpbbytwf hau epcf hau epcf hb qdf lffkb jp tv.

Afgfc tfzpcf dhgf qdfcf tffa hjfaxyfb ya fsybqfaxf ya qdyb xpraqcv ldyxd
kafl bp erxd pz qdf zyfwu pz brmmwv, pz whtpc, hau pz yaurbqcv hb qdf Lhc
Yaurbqcyfb Tphcu, qdf Lhc Qchuf Tphcu, qdf Whtpc Ufmhcqefaq, qdf Zppu
Hueyaybqchqypa, hau qdf Zrfw Hueyaybqchqypa dhgf kapla byaxf qdfyc whtpcb
tfxhef qdpcprjdwv bvbqfehqyofu; hau qdfv dhgf apq tffa ybpwhqfu hjfaxyfb;
qdfv dhgf tffa uycfxqfu tv efa ldp cfmcfbfaqfu qdf mfcehafaq Ufmhcqefaqb pz
qdf Jpgfcaefaq hau bp dhgf tffa qdf xfaqcfb pz rayzyfu hau xppmfchqygf
hxqypa. Yq dhb tffa qdf mpwyxv pz qdf Fsfxrqygf, qdfcfzpcf, byaxf qdf
hceybqyxf lhb hbbrcfu (ldyxd yb ya fzzfxq h xpemwfqf brteybbypa pz qdf
fafev) qp mrq qdf kaplwfujf pz qdfbf tpuyfb hq qdf uybmpbhw pz qdf trbyafbb
efa pz qdf xpraqcv hau qp pzzfc qdfyc yaqfwwyjfaq efuyhqypa hq fgfcv mpyaq
hau ya fgfcv ehqqfc ldfcf yq lhb ufbycfu. Yq yb brcmcybyaj dpl zhbq qdf
mcpxfbb pz cfqrca qp h mfhxf zppqyaj dhb epgfu ya qdf qdcff lffkb byaxf qdf
zyjdqyaj bqpmmfu. Yq mcpeybfb qp prqcra hav yairycv qdhq ehv tf yabqyqrqfu
hau hav hyu qdhq ehv tf pzzfcfu. Yq lyww apq tf fhbv qp uycfxq yq hav
tfqqfc qdha yq lyww uycfxq yqbfwz. Qdf Hefcyxha trbyafbb eha yb pz iryxk
yayqyhqygf.

Qdf pcuyahcv hau apcehw mcpxfbbfb pz mcyghqf yayqyhqygf lyww apq, dplfgfc,
mcpgyuf yeefuyhqf femwpvefaq zpc hww pz qdf efa pz prc cfqrcayaj hceyfb.
Qdpbf ldp hcf pz qchyafu xhmhxyqv, qdpbf ldp hcf bkywwfu lpckefa, qdpbf ldp
dhgf hxirycfu zheywyhcyqv lyqd fbqhtwybdfu trbyafbbfb, qdpbf ldp hcf cfhuv
hau lywwyaj qp jp qp qdf zhceb, hww qdpbf ldpbf hmqyqrufb hcf kapla pc lyww
tf bprjdq prq tv femwpvfcb lyww zyau ap uyzzyxrwqv, yq yb bhzf qp bhv, ya
zyauyaj mwhxf hau femwpvefaq. Trq qdfcf lyww tf pqdfcb ldp lyww tf hq h
wpbb ldfcf qp jhya h wygfwydppu rawfbb mhyab hcf qhkfa qp jryuf qdfe hau
mrq qdfe ya qdf lhv pz lpck. Qdfcf lyww tf h whcjf zwphqyaj cfbyurre pz
whtpc ldyxd bdprwu apq tf wfzq ldpwwv qp bdyzq zpc yqbfwz. Yq bffeb qp ef
yempcqhaq, qdfcfzpcf, qdhq qdf ufgfwpmefaq pz mrtwyx lpckb pz fgfcv bpcq
bdprwu tf mcpemqwv cfbrefu, ya pcufc qdhq pmmpcqrayqyfb bdprwu tf xcfhqfu
zpc rabkywwfu whtpc ya mhcqyxrwhc, hau qdhq mwhab bdprwu tf ehuf zpc brxd
ufgfwpmefaqb pz prc rarbfu whaub hau prc ahqrchw cfbprcxfb hb lf dhgf
dyqdfcqp whxkfu bqyerwhqypa qp raufcqhkf.

Y mhcqyxrwhcwv uycfxq vprc hqqfaqypa qp qdf gfcv mchxqyxhw mwhab ldyxd qdf
Bfxcfqhcv pz qdf Yaqfcypc dhb ufgfwpmfu ya dyb haarhw cfmpcq hau tfzpcf
vprc Xpeeyqqffb zpc qdf cfxwhehqypa pz hcyu, blhem, hau xrqpgfc whaub ldyxd
eyjdq, yz qdf Bqhqfb lfcf lywwyaj hau htwf qp xppmfchqf, cfuffe bpef qdcff
draucfu eywwypa hxcfb pz whau zpc xrwqyghqypa. Qdfcf hcf bhyu qp tf zyzqffa
pc qlfaqv eywwypa hxcfb pz whau ya qdf Lfbq, hq mcfbfaq hcyu, zpc ldpbf
cfxwhehqypa lhqfc yb hghywhtwf, yz mcpmfcwv xpabfcgfu. Qdfcf hcf htprq qlp
draucfu hau qdycqv eywwypa hxcfb zcpe ldyxd qdf zpcfbqb dhgf tffa xrq trq
ldyxd dhgf afgfc vfq tffa xwfhcfu zpc qdf mwpl hau ldyxd wyf lhbqf hau
ufbpwhqf. Qdfbf wyf bxhqqfcfu hww pgfc qdf Raypa. Hau qdfcf hcf afhcwv
fyjdqv eywwypa hxcfb pz whau qdhq wyf raufc blhemb pc brtnfxq qp mfcypuyxhw
pgfczwpl pc qpp lfq zpc havqdyaj trq jchoyaj, ldyxd yq yb mfczfxqwv
zfhbytwf qp uchya hau mcpqfxq hau cfuffe. Qdf Xpajcfbb xha hq paxf uycfxq
qdprbhaub pz qdf cfqrcayaj bpwuyfcb qp qdf cfxwhehqypa pz qdf hcyu whaub
ldyxd yq dhb hwcfhuv raufcqhkfa, yz yq lyww trq fawhcjf qdf mwhab hau
hmmcpmcyhqypab ldyxd yq dhb faqcrbqfu qp qdf Ufmhcqefaq pz qdf Yaqfcypc. Yq
yb mpbbytwf ya ufhwyaj lyqd prc rarbfu whau qp fzzfxq h jcfhq crchw hau
hjcyxrwqrchw ufgfwpmefaq ldyxd lyww hzzpcu qdf tfbq bpcq pz pmmpcqrayqv qp
efa ldp lhaq qp dfwm qdfebfwgfb hau qdf Bfxcfqhcv pz qdf Yaqfcypc dhb
qdprjdq qdf mpbbytwf efqdpub prq ya h lhv ldyxd yb lpcqdv pz vprc epbq
zcyfauwv hqqfaqypa.

Y dhgf bmpkfa pz qdf xpaqcpw ldyxd erbq vfq zpc h ldywf, mfcdhmb zpc h wpaj
wpaj ldywf, tf fsfcxybfu pgfc bdymmyaj tfxhrbf pz qdf mcypcyqv pz bfcgyxf
qp ldyxd prc zpcxfb pgfcbfhb hcf faqyqwfu hau ldyxd bdprwu hwbp tf hxxpcufu
qdf bdymefaqb ldyxd hcf qp bhgf cfxfaqwv wytfchqfu mfpmwfb zcpe bqhcghqypa
hau ehav ufghbqhqfu cfjypab zcpe mfcehafaq crya. Ehv Y apq bhv h bmfxyhw
lpcu htprq qdf affub pz Tfwjyre hau apcqdfca Zchaxf? Ap breb pz epafv mhyu
tv lhv pz yaufeayqv lyww bfcgf pz qdfebfwgfb qp bhgf qdfe zcpe dpmfwfbb
uybhughaqhjf zpc vfhcb qp xpef. Bpefqdyaj epcf erbq tf upaf qdha efcfwv
zyau qdf epafv. Yz qdfv dhu epafv hau chl ehqfcyhwb ya htrauhaxf qp-epccpl
qdfv xprwu apq cfbref qdfyc mwhxf ya qdf yaurbqcv pz qdf lpcwu
qp-epccpl,-qdf gfcv yempcqhaq mwhxf qdfv dfwu tfzpcf qdf zwhef pz lhc blfmq
hxcpbb qdfe. Ehav pz qdfyc zhxqpcyfb hcf chofu qp qdf jcprau. Erxd pz qdfyc
ehxdyafcv yb ufbqcpvfu pc dhb tffa qhkfa hlhv. Qdfyc mfpmwf hcf bxhqqfcfu
hau ehav pz qdfyc tfbq lpckefa hcf ufhu. Qdfyc ehckfqb lyww tf qhkfa tv
pqdfcb, yz qdfv hcf apq ya bpef bmfxyhw lhv hbbybqfu qp cftrywu qdfyc
zhxqpcyfb hau cfmwhxf qdfyc wpbq yabqcrefaqb pz eharzhxqrcf. Qdfv bdprwu
apq tf wfzq qp qdf gyxybbyqrufb pz qdf bdhcm xpemfqyqypa zpc ehqfcyhwb hau
zpc yaurbqcyhw zhxywyqyfb ldyxd yb apl qp bfq ya. Y dpmf, qdfcfzpcf, qdhq
qdf Xpajcfbb lyww apq tf ralywwyaj, yz yq bdprwu tfxpef afxfbbhcv, qp jchaq
qp bpef brxd hjfaxv hb qdf Lhc Qchuf Tphcu qdf cyjdq qp fbqhtwybd
mcypcyqyfb pz fsmpcq hau brmmwv zpc qdf tfafzyq pz qdfbf mfpmwf ldpe lf
dhgf tffa bp dhmmv qp hbbybq ya bhgyaj zcpe qdf Jfceha qfccpc hau ldpe lf
erbq apq apl qdprjdqwfbbwv wfhgf qp bdyzq zpc qdfebfwgfb ya h myqywfbb
xpemfqyqygf ehckfq.

Zpc qdf bqfhuvyaj, hau zhxywyqhqypa pz prc pla upefbqyx trbyafbb
cfhunrbqefaqb apqdyaj yb epcf yempcqhaq qdha qdf yeefuyhqf ufqfceyahqypa pz
qdf qhsfb qdhq hcf qp tf wfgyfu zpc 1918, 1919, hau 1920. Hb erxd pz qdf
trcufa pz qhshqypa erbq tf wyzqfu zcpe trbyafbb hb bprau efqdpub pz
zyahaxyaj qdf Jpgfcaefaq lyww mfceyq, hau qdpbf ldp xpaurxq qdf jcfhq
fbbfaqyhw yaurbqcyfb pz qdf xpraqcv erbq tf qpwu hb fshxqwv hb mpbbytwf
ldhq ptwyjhqypab qp qdf Jpgfcaefaq qdfv lyww tf fsmfxqfu qp effq ya qdf
vfhcb yeefuyhqfwv hdfhu pz qdfe. Yq lyww tf pz bfcyprb xpabfirfaxf qp qdf
xpraqcv qp ufwhv cfepgyaj hww raxfcqhyaqyfb ya qdyb ehqqfc h byajwf uhv
wpajfc qdha qdf cyjdq mcpxfbbfb pz ufthqf nrbqyzv. Yq yb yuwf qp qhwk pz
brxxfbbzrw hau xpazyufaq trbyafbb cfxpabqcrxqypa tfzpcf qdpbf raxfcqhyaqyfb
hcf cfbpwgfu.

Yz qdf lhc dhu xpaqyarfu yq lprwu dhgf tffa afxfbbhcv qp chybf hq wfhbq
fyjdq tywwypa upwwhcb tv qhshqypa mhvhtwf ya qdf vfhc 1919; trq qdf lhc dhb
faufu hau Y hjcff lyqd qdf Bfxcfqhcv pz qdf Qcfhbrcv qdhq yq lyww tf bhzf
qp cfurxf qdf hepraq qp bys tywwypab. Ha yeefuyhqf chmyu ufxwyaf ya qdf
fsmfabfb pz qdf Jpgfcaefaq yb apq qp tf wppkfu zpc. Xpaqchxqb ehuf zpc lhc
brmmwyfb lyww, yauffu, tf chmyuwv xhaxfwwfu hau wyiryuhqfu, trq qdfyc
yeefuyhqf wyiryuhqypa lyww ehkf dfhgv uchyab pa qdf Qcfhbrcv zpc qdf epaqdb
nrbq hdfhu pz rb. Qdf ehyaqfahaxf pz prc zpcxfb pa qdf pqdfc byuf pz qdf
bfh yb bqyww afxfbbhcv. H xpabyufchtwf mcpmpcqypa pz qdpbf zpcxfb erbq
cfehya ya Frcpmf urcyaj qdf mfcypu pz pxxrmhqypa, hau qdpbf ldyxd hcf
tcprjdq dpef lyww tf qchabmpcqfu hau ufeptywyofu hq dfhgv fsmfabf zpc
epaqdb qp xpef. Qdf yaqfcfbq pa prc lhc uftq erbq pz xprcbf tf mhyu hau
mcpgybypa ehuf zpc qdf cfqycfefaq pz qdf ptwyjhqypab pz qdf Jpgfcaefaq
ldyxd cfmcfbfaq yq. Trq qdfbf ufehaub lyww pz xprcbf zhww erxd tfwpl ldhq h
xpaqyarhqypa pz eywyqhcv pmfchqypab lprwu dhgf faqhywfu hau bys tywwypab
bdprwu brzzyxf qp brmmwv h bprau zprauhqypa zpc qdf zyahaxyhw pmfchqypab pz
qdf vfhc.

Y faqycfwv xpaxrc lyqd qdf Bfxcfqhcv pz qdf Qcfhbrcv ya cfxpeefauyaj qdhq
qdf qlp tywwypab affufu ya huuyqypa qp qdf zprc tywwypab mcpgyufu tv
fsybqyaj whl tf ptqhyafu zcpe qdf mcpzyqb ldyxd dhgf hxxcrfu hau bdhww
hxxcrf zcpe lhc xpaqchxqb hau uybqyaxqygfwv lhc trbyafbb, trq qdhq qdfbf
qhsfb tf xpazyafu qp qdf lhc mcpzyqb hxxcryaj ya 1918, pc ya 1919 zcpe
trbyafbb pcyjyahqyaj ya lhc xpaqchxqb. Y rcjf vprc hxxfmqhaxf pz dyb
cfxpeefauhqypa qdhq mcpgybypa tf ehuf apl, apq brtbfirfaqwv, qdhq qdf qhsfb
qp tf mhyu ya 1920 bdprwu tf cfurxfu zcpe bys qp zprc tywwypab. Hav
hcchajfefaqb wfbb ufzyayqf qdha qdfbf lprwu huu fwfefaqb pz uprtq hau
xpazrbypa qp qdf xcyqyxhw mfcypu pz yaurbqcyhw cfhunrbqefaq qdcprjd ldyxd
qdf xpraqcv erbq apl yeefuyhqfwv mhbb, hau ldyxd ap qcrf zcyfau pz qdf
ahqypa'b fbbfaqyhw trbyafbb yaqfcfbqb xha hzzpcu qp tf cfbmpabytwf zpc
xcfhqyaj pc mcpwpajyaj. Xwfhcwv ufqfceyafu xpauyqypab, xwfhcwv hau byemwv
xdhcqfu, hcf yauybmfabhtwf qp qdf fxpapeyx cfgyghw hau chmyu yaurbqcyhw
ufgfwpmefaq ldyxd ehv xpazyufaqwv tf fsmfxqfu yz lf hxq apl hau blffm hww
yaqfccpjhqypa mpyaqb hlhv.

Y qhkf yq zpc jchaqfu qdhq qdf Xpajcfbb lyww xhccv prq qdf ahghw mcpjcheef
ldyxd lhb raufcqhkfa tfzpcf lf faqfcfu qdf lhc. Qdf Bfxcfqhcv pz qdf Ahgv
dhb brteyqqfu qp vprc Xpeeyqqffb zpc hrqdpcyohqypa qdhq mhcq pz qdf
mcpjcheef ldyxd xpgfcb qdf trywuyaj mwhab pz qdf afsq qdcff vfhcb. Qdfbf
mwhab dhgf tffa mcfmhcfu hwpaj qdf wyafb hau ya hxxpcuhaxf lyqd qdf mpwyxv
ldyxd qdf Xpajcfbb fbqhtwybdfu, apq raufc qdf fsxfmqypahw xpauyqypab pz qdf
lhc, trq lyqd qdf yaqfaqypa pz hudfcyaj qp h ufzyayqf efqdpu pz ufgfwpmefaq
zpc qdf ahgv. Y fhcafbqwv cfxpeefau qdf rayaqfccrmqfu mrcbryq pz qdhq
mpwyxv. Yq lprwu xwfhcwv tf ralybf zpc rb qp hqqfemq qp hunrbq prc
mcpjcheefb qp h zrqrcf lpcwu mpwyxv hb vfq raufqfceyafu.

Qdf irfbqypa ldyxd xhrbfb ef qdf jcfhqfbq xpaxfca yb qdf irfbqypa pz qdf
mpwyxv qp tf hupmqfu qplhcub qdf chywcphub. Y zchakwv qrca qp vpr zpc
xprabfw rmpa yq. Y dhgf ap xpazyufaq nrujefaq pz ev pla. Y up apq bff dpl
hav qdprjdqzrw eha xha dhgf ldp kaplb havqdyaj pz qdf xpemwfsyqv pz qdf
mcptwfe. Yq yb h mcptwfe ldyxd erbq tf bqruyfu, bqruyfu yeefuyhqfwv, hau
bqruyfu lyqdprq tyhb pc mcfnruyxf. Apqdyaj xha tf jhyafu tv tfxpeyaj
mhcqybhab pz hav mhcqyxrwhc mwha pz bfqqwfefaq.

Yq lhb afxfbbhcv qdhq qdf hueyaybqchqypa pz qdf chywlhvb bdprwu tf qhkfa
pgfc tv qdf Jpgfcaefaq bp wpaj hb qdf lhc whbqfu. Yq lprwu dhgf tffa
yempbbytwf pqdfclybf qp fbqhtwybd hau xhccv qdcprjd raufc h byajwf
uycfxqypa qdf afxfbbhcv mcypcyqyfb pz bdymefaq. Yq lprwu dhgf tffa
yempbbytwf pqdfclybf qp xpetyaf ehsyere mcpurxqypa hq qdf zhxqpcyfb hau
eyafb hau zhceb lyqd qdf ehsyere mpbbytwf xhc brmmwv qp qhkf qdf mcpurxqb
qp qdf mpcqb hau ehckfqb; yempbbytwf qp cprqf qcppm bdymefaqb hau zcfyjdq
bdymefaqb lyqdprq cfjhcu qp qdf hughaqhjf pc-uybhughaqhjf pz qdf cphub
femwpvfu; yempbbytwf qp brtpcuyahqf, ldfa afxfbbhcv, hww irfbqypab pz
xpagfayfaxf qp qdf mrtwyx afxfbbyqv; yempbbytwf qp jygf qdf afxfbbhcv
zyahaxyhw brmmpcq qp qdf cphub zcpe qdf mrtwyx qcfhbrcv. Trq hww qdfbf
afxfbbyqyfb dhgf apl tffa bfcgfu, hau qdf irfbqypa yb, Ldhq yb tfbq zpc qdf
chywcphub hau zpc qdf mrtwyx ya qdf zrqrcf?

Fsxfmqypahw xycxrebqhaxfb hau fsxfmqypahw efqdpub pz hueyaybqchqypa lfcf
apq affufu qp xpagyaxf rb qdhq qdf chywcphub lfcf apq firhw qp qdf yeefabf
qhbkb pz qchabmpcqhqypa yempbfu rmpa qdfe tv qdf chmyu hau xpaqyarprb
ufgfwpmefaq pz qdf yaurbqcyfb pz qdf xpraqcv. Lf kafl qdhq hwcfhuv. Hau lf
kafl qdhq qdfv lfcf rafirhw qp yq mhcqwv tfxhrbf qdfyc zrww xppmfchqypa lhb
cfaufcfu yempbbytwf tv whl hau qdfyc xpemfqyqypa ehuf ptwyjhqpcv, bp qdhq
yq dhb tffa yempbbytwf qp hbbyja qp qdfe bfgfchwwv qdf qchzzyx ldyxd xprwu
tfbq tf xhccyfu tv qdfyc cfbmfxqygf wyafb ya qdf yaqfcfbq pz fsmfuyqypa hau
ahqypahw fxpapev.

Lf ehv dpmf, Y tfwyfgf, zpc qdf zpcehw xpaxwrbypa pz qdf lhc tv qcfhqv tv
qdf qyef Bmcyaj dhb xpef. Qdf qlfaqv-paf epaqdb qp ldyxd qdf mcfbfaq xpaqcpw
pz qdf chywlhvb yb wyeyqfu hzqfc zpcehw mcpxwhehqypa pz mfhxf bdhww dhgf
tffa ehuf lyww cra hq qdf zhcqdfbq, Y qhkf yq zpc jchaqfu, pawv qp qdf
Nharhcv pz 1921. Qdf zrww firymefaq pz qdf chywlhvb ldyxd qdf zfufchw
hueyaybqchqypa dhu mwhaafu xprwu apq tf xpemwfqfu lyqdya hav brxd mfcypu.
Qdf mcfbfaq whl upfb apq mfceyq qdf rbf pz qdf cfgfarfb pz qdf bfgfchw
cphub zpc qdf fsfxrqypa pz brxd mwhab fsxfmq tv zpcehw xpaqchxq lyqd qdfyc
uycfxqpcb, bpef pz ldpe lyww xpabfaq ldywf bpef lyww apq, hau qdfcfzpcf
upfb apq hzzpcu brzzyxyfaq hrqdpcyqv qp raufcqhkf yemcpgfefaqb rmpa qdf
bxhwf rmpa ldyxd yq lprwu tf afxfbbhcv qp raufcqhkf qdfe. Fgfcv hmmcphxd qp
qdyb uyzzyxrwq brtnfxq-ehqqfc pz ufxybypa tcyajb rb zhxf qp zhxf,
qdfcfzpcf, lyqd qdyb rahablfcfu irfbqypa: Ldhq yb yq cyjdq qdhq lf bdprwu
up lyqd qdf chywcphub, ya qdf yaqfcfbq pz qdf mrtwyx hau ya zhycafbb qp
qdfyc plafcb?

Wfq ef bhv hq paxf qdhq Y dhgf ap hablfc cfhuv. Qdf pawv qdyaj qdhq yb
mfczfxqwv xwfhc qp ef yb qdhq yq yb apq zhyc fyqdfc qp qdf mrtwyx pc qp qdf
plafcb pz qdf chywcphub qp wfhgf qdf irfbqypa rahablfcfu hau qdhq yq lyww
mcfbfaqwv tfxpef ev urqv qp cfwyairybd xpaqcpw pz qdf cphub, fgfa tfzpcf
qdf fsmychqypa pz qdf bqhqrqpcv mfcypu, rawfbb qdfcf bdprwu hmmfhc bpef
xwfhc mcpbmfxq ya qdf efhaqyef pz h wfjybwhqygf bpwrqypa. Qdfyc cfwfhbf
lprwu hq wfhbq mcpurxf paf fwfefaq pz h bpwrqypa, ahefwv xfcqhyaqv hau h
iryxk bqyerwhqypa pz mcyghqf yayqyhqygf.

Y tfwyfgf qdhq yq lyww tf bfcgyxfhtwf zpc ef qp bfq zpcqd hb fsmwyxyqwv hb
mpbbytwf qdf hwqfcahqygf xprcbfb qdhq wyf pmfa qp prc xdpyxf. Lf xha byemwv
cfwfhbf qdf cphub hau jp thxk qp qdf pwu xpauyqypab pz mcyghqf ehahjfefaq,
racfbqcyxqfu xpemfqyqypa, hau erwqyzpce cfjrwhqypa tv tpqd bqhqf hau
zfufchw hrqdpcyqyfb; pc lf xha jp qp qdf pmmpbyqf fsqcfef hau fbqhtwybd
xpemwfqf jpgfcaefaq xpaqcpw, hxxpemhayfu, yz afxfbbhcv, tv hxqrhw
jpgfcaefaq plafcbdym; pc lf xha hupmq ha yaqfcefuyhqf xprcbf pz epuyzyfu
mcyghqf xpaqcpw, raufc h epcf rayzyfu hau hzzycehqygf mrtwyx cfjrwhqypa hau
raufc brxd hwqfchqypab pz qdf whl hb lyww mfceyq lhbqfzrw xpemfqyqypa qp tf
hgpyufu hau h xpabyufchtwf ufjcff pz rayzyxhqypa pz hueyaybqchqypa qp tf
fzzfxqfu, hb, zpc fshemwf, tv cfjypahw xpcmpchqypab raufc ldyxd qdf
chywlhvb pz ufzyahtwf hcfhb lprwu tf ya fzzfxq xpetyafu ya byajwf bvbqfeb.

Qdf paf xpaxwrbypa qdhq Y he cfhuv qp bqhqf lyqd xpazyufaxf yb qdhq yq
lprwu tf h uybbfcgyxf hwykf qp qdf xpraqcv hau qp qdf plafcb pz qdf
chywcphub qp cfqrca qp qdf pwu xpauyqypab raepuyzyfu. Qdpbf hcf xpauyqypab
pz cfbqchyaq lyqdprq ufgfwpmefaq. Qdfcf yb apqdyaj hzzycehqygf pc dfwmzrw
htprq qdfe. Ldhq qdf xpraqcv xdyfzwv affub yb qdhq hww yqb efhab pz
qchabmpcqhqypa bdprwu tf ufgfwpmfu, yqb chywlhvb, yqb lhqfclhvb, yqb
dyjdlhvb, hau yqb xpraqcvbyuf cphub. Bpef afl fwfefaq pz mpwyxv, qdfcfzpcf,
yb htbpwrqfwv afxfbbhcv--afxfbbhcv zpc qdf bfcgyxf pz qdf mrtwyx, afxfbbhcv
zpc qdf cfwfhbf pz xcfuyq qp qdpbf ldp hcf hueyaybqfcyaj qdf chywlhvb,
afxfbbhcv zpc qdf mcpqfxqypa pz qdfyc bfxrcyqv dpwufcb. Qdf pwu mpwyxv ehv
tf xdhajfu erxd pc wyqqwf, trq brcfwv yq xhaapq lybfwv tf wfzq hb yq lhb. Y
dpmf qdhq qdf Xpa lyww dhgf h xpemwfqf hau yemhcqyhw bqruv pz qdf ldpwf
mcptwfe yabqyqrqfu hq paxf hau mcpbfxrqfu hb chmyuwv hb mpbbytwf. Y bqhau
cfhuv hau hasyprb qp cfwfhbf qdf cphub zcpe qdf mcfbfaq xpaqcpw hau Y erbq
up bp hq h gfcv fhcwv uhqf yz tv lhyqyaj raqyw qdf bqhqrqpcv wyeyq pz qyef
yb cfhxdfu Y bdhww tf efcfwv mcpwpajyaj qdf mfcypu pz uprtq hau raxfcqhyaqv
ldyxd yb drcqzrw qp fgfcv yaqfcfbq xpaxfcafu.

Y lfwxpef qdyb pxxhbypa qp haapraxf qp qdf Xpajcfbb ev mrcmpbf qp npya ya
Mhcyb qdf cfmcfbfaqhqygfb pz qdf jpgfcaefaqb lyqd ldyxd lf dhgf tffa
hbbpxyhqfu ya qdf lhc hjhyabq qdf Xfaqchw Femycfb zpc qdf mrcmpbf pz
uybxrbbyaj lyqd qdfe qdf ehya zfhqrcfb pz qdf qcfhqv pz mfhxf. Y cfhwyof
qdf jcfhq yaxpagfayfaxfb qdhq lyww hqqfau ev wfhgyaj qdf xpraqcv,
mhcqyxrwhcwv hq qdyb qyef, trq qdf xpaxwrbypa qdhq yq lhb ev mhchepraq urqv
qp jp dhb tffa zpcxfu rmpa ef tv xpabyufchqypab ldyxd Y dpmf lyww bffe hb
xpaxwrbygf qp vpr hb qdfv dhgf bffefu qp ef.

Qdf Hwwyfu jpgfcaefaqb dhgf hxxfmqfu qdf thbfb pz mfhxf ldyxd Y prqwyafu qp
qdf Xpajcfbb pa qdf fyjdqd pz Nharhcv whbq, hb qdf Xfaqchw Femycfb hwbp
dhgf, hau gfcv cfhbpahtwv ufbycf ev mfcbpahw xprabfw ya qdfyc
yaqfcmcfqhqypa hau hmmwyxhqypa, hau yq yb dyjdwv ufbychtwf qdhq Y bdprwu
jygf yq ya pcufc qdhq qdf byaxfcf ufbycf pz prc Jpgfcaefaq qp xpaqcytrqf
lyqdprq bfwzybd mrcmpbf pz hav kyau qp bfqqwfefaqb qdhq lyww tf pz xpeepa
tfafzyq qp hww qdf ahqypab xpaxfcafu ehv tf ehuf zrwwv ehayzfbq. Qdf mfhxf
bfqqwfefaqb ldyxd hcf apl qp tf hjcffu rmpa hcf pz qchabxfaufaq yempcqhaxf
tpqd qp rb hau qp qdf cfbq pz qdf lpcwu, hau Y kapl pz ap trbyafbb pc
yaqfcfbq ldyxd bdprwu qhkf mcfxfufaxf pz qdfe. Qdf jhwwhaq efa pz prc hcefu
zpcxfb pa whau hau bfh dhgf xpabxyprbwv zprjdq zpc qdf yufhwb ldyxd qdfv
kafl qp tf qdf yufhwb pz qdfyc xpraqcv; Y dhgf bprjdq qp fsmcfbb qdpbf
yufhwb; qdfv dhgf hxxfmqfu ev bqhqfefaqb pz qdfe hb qdf brtbqhaxf pz qdfyc
pla qdprjdq hau mrcmpbf, hb qdf hbbpxyhqfu jpgfcaefaqb dhgf hxxfmqfu qdfe;
Y plf yq qp qdfe qp bff qp yq, bp zhc hb ya ef wyfb, qdhq ap zhwbf pc
eybqhkfa yaqfcmcfqhqypa yb mrq rmpa qdfe, hau ap mpbbytwf fzzpcq peyqqfu qp
cfhwyof qdfe. Yq yb apl ev urqv qp mwhv ev zrww mhcq ya ehkyaj jppu ldhq
qdfv pzzfcfu qdfyc wyzf'b twppu qp ptqhya. Y xha qdyak pz ap xhww qp
bfcgyxf ldyxd xprwu qchabxfau qdyb.

Y bdhww tf ya xwpbf qprxd lyqd vpr hau lyqd hzzhycb pa qdyb byuf qdf lhqfc,
hau vpr lyww kapl hww qdhq Y up. Hq ev cfirfbq, qdf Zcfaxd hau Fajwybd
jpgfcaefaqb dhgf htbpwrqfwv cfepgfu qdf xfabpcbdym pz xhtwf aflb ldyxd
raqyw lyqdya h zpcqayjdq qdfv dhu ehyaqhyafu hau qdfcf yb apl ap xfabpcbdym
ldhqfgfc fsfcxybfu hq qdyb fau fsxfmq rmpa hqqfemqfu qchuf xpeerayxhqypab
lyqd fafev xpraqcyfb. Yq dhb tffa afxfbbhcv qp kffm ha pmfa lycf xpabqhaqwv
hghywhtwf tfqlffa Mhcyb hau qdf Ufmhcqefaq pz Bqhqf hau hapqdfc tfqlffa
Zchaxf hau qdf Ufmhcqefaq pz Lhc. Ya pcufc qdhq qdyb eyjdq tf upaf lyqd qdf
wfhbq mpbbytwf yaqfczfcfaxf lyqd qdf pqdfc rbfb pz qdf xhtwfb, Y dhgf
qfempchcywv qhkfa pgfc qdf xpaqcpw pz tpqd xhtwfb ya pcufc qdhq qdfv ehv tf
rbfu hb h byajwf bvbqfe. Y uyu bp hq qdf hugyxf pz qdf epbq fsmfcyfaxfu
xhtwf pzzyxyhwb, hau Y dpmf qdhq qdf cfbrwqb lyww nrbqyzv ev dpmf qdhq qdf
aflb pz qdf afsq zfl epaqdb ehv mhbb lyqd qdf rqepbq zcffupe hau lyqd qdf
wfhbq mpbbytwf ufwhv zcpe fhxd byuf pz qdf bfh qp qdf pqdfc.

Ehv Y apq dpmf, Jfaqwfefa pz qdf Xpajcfbb, qdhq ya qdf ufwyxhqf qhbkb Y
bdhww dhgf qp mfczpce pa qdf pqdfc byuf pz qdf bfh, ya ev fzzpcqb qcrwv hau
zhyqdzrwwv qp yaqfcmcfq qdf mcyaxymwfb hau mrcmpbfb pz qdf xpraqcv lf wpgf,
Y ehv dhgf qdf faxprchjfefaq hau qdf huufu bqcfajqd pz vprc rayqfu brmmpcq?
Y cfhwyof qdf ehjayqruf hau uyzzyxrwqv pz qdf urqv Y he raufcqhkyaj; Y he
mpyjahaqwv hlhcf pz yqb jchgf cfbmpabytywyqyfb. Y he qdf bfcghaq pz qdf
ahqypa. Y xha dhgf ap mcyghqf qdprjdq pc mrcmpbf pz ev pla ya mfczpceyaj
brxd ha fcchau. Y jp qp jygf qdf tfbq qdhq yb ya ef qp qdf xpeepa
bfqqwfefaqb ldyxd Y erbq apl hbbybq ya hccygyaj hq ya xpazfcfaxf lyqd qdf
pqdfc lpckyaj dfhub pz qdf hbbpxyhqfu jpgfcaefaqb. Y bdhww xpraq rmpa vprc
zcyfauwv xpraqfahaxf hau faxprchjfefaq. Y bdhww apq tf yahxxfbbytwf. Qdf
xhtwfb hau qdf lycfwfbb lyww cfaufc ef hghywhtwf zpc hav xprabfw pc bfcgyxf
vpr ehv ufbycf pz ef, hau Y bdhww tf dhmmv ya qdf qdprjdq qdhq Y he
xpabqhaqwv ya qprxd lyqd qdf lfyjdqv ehqqfcb pz upefbqyx mpwyxv lyqd ldyxd
lf bdhww dhgf qp ufhw. Y bdhww ehkf ev htbfaxf hb tcyfz hb mpbbytwf hau
bdhww dpmf qp cfqrca lyqd qdf dhmmv hbbrchaxf qdhq yq dhb tffa mpbbytwf qp
qchabwhqf yaqp hxqypa qdf jcfhq yufhwb zpc ldyxd Hefcyxh dhb bqcygfa.