CHBIPHQHB MU IEH VMBCGHKK:

Knbvh N pjki ejt ieh ygnlnphch mu jttghkknbc smw mb ieh kijih mu ieh Wbnmb
ieh zjg mu bjinmbk mb ieh miehg knth mu ieh khj, zenve ejt iehb mbps fhcwb
im tnkvpmkh nik ymgihbimwk ygmymginmbk, ejk hoihbtht nik ieghjihbnbc jbt
knbnkihg kvmyh wbinp ni ejk kzhyi znienb nik upjqh kmqh ymginmb mu hlhgs
xwjgihg mu ieh cpmfh, bmi hovhyinbc mwg mzb ehqnkyehgh, ejk jpihght ieh
zemph ujvh mu nbihgbjinmbjp juujngk, jbt bmz yghkhbik j ygmkyhvi mu
ghmgcjbndjinmb jbt ghvmbkigwvinmb kwve jk kijihkqhb jbt yhmyphk ejlh bhlhg
fhhb vjppht wymb im jiihqyi fhumgh.

Zh ejlh kimmt jyjgi, kiwtnmwkps bhwigjp. Ni zjk mwg qjbnuhki twis im tm km.
Bmi mbps tnt zh ejlh bm yjgi mg nbihghki nb ieh ympnvnhk zenve khhq im ejlh
fgmwcei ieh vmbupnvi mb; ni zjk bhvhkkjgs, nu j wbnlhgkjp vjijkigmyeh zjk
im fh jlmntht, ieji j pnqni kemwpt fh khi im ieh kzhhy mu thkigwvinlh zjg
jbt ieji kmqh yjgi mu ieh cghji ujqnps mu bjinmbk kemwpt rhhy ieh ygmvhkkhk
mu yhjvh jpnlh, nu mbps im yghlhbi vmpphvinlh hvmbmqnv gwnb jbt ieh
fghjrtmzb iegmwcemwi ieh zmgpt mu ieh nbtwkignhk fs zenve nik ymywpjinmbk
jgh uht jbt kwkijnbht. Ni zjk qjbnuhkips ieh twis mu ieh khpu-cmlhgbht
bjinmbk mu ienk ehqnkyehgh im ghtghkk, nu ymkknfph, ieh fjpjbvh mu hvmbmqnv
pmkk jbt vmbuwknmb nb ieh miehg, nu iehs vmwpt tm bmienbc qmgh. Nb ieh tjs
mu ghjtawkiqhbi jbt ghvwyhgjinmb zh hjgbhkips emyh jbt fhpnhlh ieji iehs
vjb fh mu nbunbnih khglnvh.

Nb ienk bhwigjpnis, im zenve iehs zhgh fntthb bmi mbps fs iehng khyjgjih
pnuh jbt iehng ejfniwjp thijveqhbi ugmq ieh ympninvk mu Hwgmyh fwi jpkm fs
j vphjg yhgvhyinmb mu nbihgbjinmbjp twis, ieh kijihk mu Jqhgnvj ejlh fhvmqh
vmbkvnmwk mu j bhz jbt qmgh lnijp vmqqwbnis mu nbihghki jbt qmgjp
yjgibhgkeny nb juujngk, qmgh vphjgps vmbkvnmwk mu ieh qjbs vmqqmb
ksqyjienhk jbt nbihghkik jbt twinhk zenve fnt iehq kijbt imchiehg.

Iehgh zjk j inqh nb ieh hjgps tjsk mu mwg mzb cghji bjinmb jbt mu ieh
ghywfpnvk unceinbc iehng zjs im nbthyhbthbvh nb Vhbigjp jbt Kmwie Jqhgnvj
zehb ieh cmlhgbqhbi mu ieh Wbniht Kijihk pmmrht wymb nikhpu jk nb kmqh kmgi
ieh cwjgtnjb mu ieh ghywfpnvk im ieh Kmwie mu ehg jk jcjnbki jbs
hbvgmjveqhbik mg huumgik ji ympninvjp vmbigmp ugmq ieh miehg knth mu ieh
zjihg; uhpi ni nik twis im ypjs ieh yjgi hlhb zniemwi nblnijinmb ugmq iehq;
jbt N ienbr ieji zh vjb vpjnq ieji ieh ijkr zjk wbthgijrhb znie j igwh jbt
tnknbihghkiht hbiewknjkq umg ieh ughhtmq mu ieh Jqhgnvjk jbt ieh wbqmphkiht
Khpu-cmlhgbqhbi mu ehg nbthyhbthbi yhmyphk. Fwi ni zjk jpzjsk tnuunvwpi im
qjnbijnb kwve j gmph zniemwi muuhbkh im ieh ygnth mu ieh yhmyphk zemkh
ughhtmq mu jvinmb zh kmwcei im ygmihvi, jbt zniemwi ygmlmrnbc khgnmwk
qnkvmbvhyinmbk mu mwg qminlhk, jbt hlhgs iemwceiuwp qjb mu juujngk qwki
zhpvmqh ieh jpihght vngvwqkijbvhk mu ieh bhz tjs nb zemkh pncei zh bmz
kijbt, zehb iehgh nk bm vpjnq mu cwjgtnjbkeny mg iemwcei mu zjgtk fwi,
nbkihjt, j uwpp jbt embmgjfph jkkmvnjinmb jk mu yjgibhgk fhizhhb mwgkhplhk
jbt mwg bhncefmgk, nb ieh nbihghki mu jpp Jqhgnvj, bmgie jbt kmwie. Mwg
vmbvhgb umg ieh nbthyhbthbvh jbt ygmkyhgnis mu ieh kijihk mu Vhbigjp jbt
Kmwie Jqhgnvj nk bmi jpihght. Zh ghijnb wbjfjiht ieh kyngni ieji ejk
nbkynght wk iegmwcemwi ieh zemph pnuh mu mwg cmlhgbqhbi jbt zenve zjk km
ugjbrps ywi nbim zmgtk fs Yghknthbi Qmbgmh. Zh kinpp qhjb jpzjsk im qjrh j
vmqqmb vjwkh mu bjinmbjp nbthyhbthbvh jbt mu ympninvjp pnfhgis nb Jqhgnvj.
Fwi ieji ywgymkh nk bmz fhiihg wbthgkimmt km ujg jk ni vmbvhgbk mwgkhplhk.
Ni nk rbmzb bmi im fh j khpunke ywgymkh. Ni nk rbmzb im ejlh nb ni bm
iemwcei mu ijrnbc jtljbijch mu jbs cmlhgbqhbi nb ienk ehqnkyehgh mg ypjsnbc
nik ympninvjp umgiwbhk umg mwg mzb fhbhuni. Jpp ieh cmlhgbqhbik mu Jqhgnvj
kijbt, km ujg jk zh jgh vmbvhgbht, wymb j umminbc mu chbwnbh hxwjpnis jbt
wbxwhkinmbht nbthyhbthbvh.

Zh ejlh fhhb ywi im ieh ihki nb ieh vjkh mu Qhonvm, jbt zh ejlh kimmt ieh
ihki. Zehiehg zh ejlh fhbhuniht Qhonvm fs ieh vmwgkh zh ejlh ywgkwht
ghqjnbk im fh khhb. Ehg umgiwbhk jgh nb ehg mzb ejbtk. Fwi zh ejlh ji phjki
ygmlht ieji zh znpp bmi ijrh jtljbijch mu ehg nb ehg tnkighkk jbt wbthgijrh
im nqymkh wymb ehg jb mgthg jbt cmlhgbqhbi mu mwg mzb vemmknbc. Pnfhgis nk
muihb j unhgvh jbt nbigjvijfph ienbc, im zenve bm fmwbtk vjb fh khi, jbt im
zenve bm fmwbtk mu j uhz qhb'k vemmknbc mwcei hlhg im fh khi. Hlhgs
Jqhgnvjb zem ejk tgwbr ji ieh igwh umwbijnbk mu ygnbvnyph jbt igjtninmb
qwki kwfkvgnfh zniemwi ghkhgljinmb im ieh ence tmvignbh mu ieh Lngcnbnj
Fnpp mu Gnceik, zenve nb ieh cghji tjsk nb zenve mwg cmlhgbqhbi zjk khi wy
zjk hlhgszehgh jqmbcki wk jvvhyiht jk ieh vghht mu ughh qhb. Ieji tmvignbh
nk, "Ieji cmlhgbqhbi nk, mg mwcei im fh, nbkiniwiht umg ieh vmqqmb fhbhuni,
ygmihvinmb, jbt khvwgnis mu ieh yhmyph, bjinmb, mg vmqqwbnis"; ieji "mu jpp
ieh ljgnmwk qmthk jbt umgqk mu cmlhgbqhbi, ieji nk ieh fhki zenve nk
vjyjfph mu ygmtwvnbc ieh cghjihki thcghh mu ejyynbhkk jbt kjuhis, jbt nk
qmki huuhviwjpps khvwght jcjnbki ieh tjbchg mu qjpjtqnbnkigjinmb; jbt ieji,
zehb jbs cmlhgbqhbi kejpp fh umwbt nbjthxwjih mg vmbigjgs im iehkh
ywgymkhk, j qjamgnis mu ieh vmqqwbnis ejie jb nbtwfnijfph, nbjpnhbjfph, jbt
nbthuhjknfph gncei im ghumgq, jpihg, mg jfmpnke ni, nb kwve qjbbhg jk kejpp
fh awtcht qmki vmbtwvnlh im ieh ywfpnv zhjp." Zh ejlh wbehknijinbcps
jyypnht ieji ehgmnv ygnbvnyph im ieh vjkh mu Qhonvm, jbt bmz emyhuwpps
jzjni ieh ghfngie mu ieh igmwfpht Ghywfpnv, zenve ejt km qwve mu zenve im
ywgch nikhpu jbt km pniiph ksqyjies ugmq jbs mwiknth xwjgihg nb ieh gjtnvjp
fwi bhvhkkjgs ygmvhkk. Zh znpp jnt jbt fhugnhbt Qhonvm, fwi zh znpp bmi
vmhgvh ehg; jbt mwg vmwgkh znie ghcjgt im ehg mwcei im fh kwuunvnhbi ygmmu
im jpp Jqhgnvj ieji zh khhr bm ympninvjp kwdhgjnbis mg khpunke vmbigmp.

Ieh qmgjp nk, ieji ieh kijihk mu Jqhgnvj jgh bmi emkinph gnljpk fwi
vmmyhgjinbc ugnhbtk, jbt ieji iehng cgmznbc khbkh mu vmqqwbnis mg nbihghki,
jpnrh nb qjiihgk ympninvjp jbt nb qjiihgk hvmbmqnv, nk pnrhps im cnlh iehq
j bhz kncbnunvjbvh jk ujvimgk nb nbihgbjinmbjp juujngk jbt nb ieh ympninvjp
enkimgs mu ieh zmgpt. Ni yghkhbik iehq jk nb j lhgs thhy jbt igwh khbkh j
wbni nb zmgpt juujngk, kyngniwjp yjgibhgk, kijbtnbc imchiehg fhvjwkh
ienbrnbc imchiehg, xwnvr znie vmqqmb ksqyjienhk jbt vmqqmb nthjpk.
Khyjgjiht iehs jgh kwfahvi im jpp ieh vgmkk vwgghbik mu ieh vmbuwkht
ympninvk mu j zmgpt mu emkinph gnljpgnhk; wbniht nb kyngni jbt ywgymkh iehs
vjbbmi fh tnkjyymnbiht mu iehng yhjvhuwp thkinbs.

Ienk nk Yjb-Jqhgnvjbnkq. Ni ejk bmbh mu ieh kyngni mu hqyngh nb ni. Ni nk
ieh hqfmtnqhbi, ieh huuhviwjp hqfmtnqhbi, mu ieh kyngni mu pjz jbt
nbthyhbthbvh jbt pnfhgis jbt qwiwjp khglnvh.

J lhgs bmijfph fmts mu qhb ghvhbips qhi nb ieh Vnis mu Zjkenbcimb, ji ieh
nblnijinmb jbt jk ieh cwhkik mu ienk Cmlhgbqhbi, zemkh thpnfhgjinmbk jgh
pnrhps im fh pmmrht fjvr im jk qjgrnbc j qhqmgjfph iwgbnbc ymnbi nb ieh
enkimgs mu Jqhgnvj. Iehs zhgh ghyghkhbijinlh kymrhkqhb mu ieh khlhgjp
nbthyhbthbi kijihk mu ienk ehqnkyehgh jbt zhgh jkkhqfpht im tnkvwkk ieh
unbjbvnjp jbt vmqqhgvnjp ghpjinmbk mu ieh ghywfpnvk mu ieh izm vmbinbhbik
zenve bjiwgh jbt ympninvjp umgiwbh ejlh km nbinqjihps pnbrht imchiehg. N
hjgbhkips ghvmqqhbt im smwg yhgwkjp ieh ghymgik mu iehng ygmvhhtnbck jbt mu
ieh jvinmbk mu iehng vmqqniihhk. Smw znpp chi ugmq iehq, N ienbr, j ughke
vmbvhyinmb mu ieh hjkh jbt nbihppnchbvh jbt jtljbijch znie zenve Jqhgnvjbk
mu fmie vmbinbhbik qjs tgjz imchiehg nb ygjvinvjp vmmyhgjinmb jbt mu zeji
ieh qjihgnjp umwbtjinmbk mu ienk emyhuwp yjgibhgkeny mu nbihghki qwki
vmbknki,-mu emz zh kemwpt fwnpt iehq jbt mu emz bhvhkkjgs ni nk ieji zh
kemwpt ejkihb iehng fwnptnbc.

Iehgh nk, N lhbiwgh im ymnbi mwi, jb hkyhvnjp kncbnunvjbvh awki bmz
jiijvenbc im ienk zemph qjiihg mu tgjznbc ieh Jqhgnvjbk imchiehg nb fmbtk
mu embmgjfph yjgibhgkeny jbt qwiwjp jtljbijch fhvjwkh mu ieh hvmbmqnv
ghjtawkiqhbik zenve ieh zmgpt qwki nbhlnijfps znibhkk znienb ieh bhoi
chbhgjinmb, zehb yhjvh kejpp ejlh ji pjki ghkwqht nik ehjpieuwp ijkrk. Nb
ieh yhgumgqjbvh mu iehkh ijkrk N fhpnhlh ieh Jqhgnvjk im fh thkinbht im
ypjs iehng yjgik imchiehg. N jq nbihghkiht im uno smwg jiihbinmb mb ienk
ygmkyhvi bmz fhvjwkh wbphkk smw ijrh ni znienb smwg lnhz jbt yhgqni ieh
uwpp kncbnunvjbvh mu ni im vmqqjbt smwg iemwcei N vjbbmi unbt ieh gncei
pncei nb zenve im khi umgie ieh yjginvwpjg qjiihg ieji pnhk ji ieh lhgs
umbi mu qs zemph iemwcei jk N jttghkk smw im-tjs. N qhjb bjinmbjp thuhbkh.

Bm mbh zem ghjpps vmqyghehbtk ieh kyngni mu ieh cghji yhmyph umg zemq zh
jgh jyymnbiht im kyhjr vjb ujnp im yhgvhnlh ieji iehng yjkknmb nk umg
yhjvh, iehng chbnwk fhki tnkypjsht nb ieh ygjvinvh mu ieh jgik mu yhjvh.
Cghji thqmvgjvnhk jgh bmi fhppnchghbi. Iehs tm bmi khhr mg thkngh zjg.
Iehng iemwcei nk mu nbtnlntwjp pnfhgis jbt mu ieh ughh pjfmg ieji kwyymgik
pnuh jbt ieh wbvhbkmght iemwcei ieji xwnvrhbk ni. Vmbxwhki jbt tmqnbnmb jgh
bmi nb mwg ghvrmbnbc, mg jcghhjfph im mwg ygnbvnyphk. Fwi awki fhvjwkh zh
thqjbt wbqmphkiht thlhpmyqhbi jbt ieh wbtnkiwgfht cmlhgbqhbi mu mwg mzb
pnlhk wymb mwg mzb ygnbvnyphk mu gncei jbt pnfhgis, zh ghkhbi, ugmq
zejihlhg xwjgihg ni qjs vmqh, ieh jccghkknmb zh mwgkhplhk znpp bmi
ygjvinvh. Zh nbknki wymb khvwgnis nb ygmkhvwinbc mwg khpu-vemkhb pnbhk mu
bjinmbjp thlhpmyqhbi. Zh tm qmgh iejb ieji. Zh thqjbt ni jpkm umg miehgk.
Zh tm bmi vmbunbh mwg hbiewknjkq umg nbtnlntwjp pnfhgis jbt ughh bjinmbjp
thlhpmyqhbi im ieh nbvnthbik jbt qmlhqhbik mu juujngk zenve juuhvi mbps
mwgkhplhk. Zh uhhp ni zehghlhg iehgh nk j yhmyph ieji ignhk im zjpr nb
iehkh tnuunvwpi yjiek mu nbthyhbthbvh jbt gncei. Ugmq ieh ungki zh ejlh
qjth vmqqmb vjwkh znie jpp yjginkjbk mu pnfhgis mb ienk knth ieh khj, jbt
ejlh thhqht ni jk nqymgijbi ieji mwg bhncefmgk kemwpt fh ughh ugmq jpp
mwiknth tmqnbjinmb jk ieji zh mwgkhplhk kemwpt fh. Zh ejlh khi Jqhgnvj
jknth jk j zemph umg ieh wkhk mu nbthyhbthbi bjinmbk jbt ympninvjp ughhqhb.

Mwi mu kwve iemwceik cgmz jpp mwg ympnvnhk. Zh ghcjgt zjg qhghps jk j qhjbk
mu jkkhginbc ieh gnceik mu j yhmyph jcjnbki jccghkknmb. Jbt zh jgh jk
unhgvhps ahjpmwk mu vmhgvnlh mg tnvijimgnjp ymzhg znienb mwg mzb bjinmb jk
mu jccghkknmb ugmq zniemwi. Zh znpp bmi qjnbijnb j kijbtnbc jgqs hovhyi umg
wkhk zenve jgh jk bhvhkkjgs nb inqhk mu yhjvh jk nb inqhk mu zjg; jbt zh
kejpp jpzjsk khh im ni ieji mwg qnpnijgs yhjvh hkijfpnkeqhbi nk bm pjgchg
iejb nk jviwjpps jbt vmbinbwmwkps bhhtht umg ieh wkhk mu tjsk nb zenve bm
hbhqnhk qmlh jcjnbki wk. Fwi zh tm fhpnhlh nb j fmts mu ughh vnindhbk ghjts
jbt kwuunvnhbi im ijrh vjgh mu iehqkhplhk jbt mu ieh cmlhgbqhbik zenve iehs
ejlh khi wy im khglh iehq. Nb mwg vmbkiniwinmbk iehqkhplhk zh ejlh
vmqqjbtht ieji "ieh gncei mu ieh yhmyph im rhhy jbt fhjg jgqk kejpp bmi fh
nbugnbcht," jbt mwg vmbunthbvh ejk fhhb ieji mwg kjuhis nb inqhk mu tjbchg
zmwpt pnh nb ieh gnknbc mu ieh bjinmb im ijrh vjgh mu nikhpu, jk ieh
ujgqhgk gmkh ji Phonbcimb.

Fwi zjg ejk bhlhg fhhb j qhgh qjiihg mu qhb jbt cwbk. Ni nk j ienbc mu
tnkvnypnbht qncei. Nu mwg vnindhbk jgh hlhg im uncei huuhvinlhps wymb j
kwtthb kwqqmbk, iehs qwki rbmz emz qmthgb unceinbc nk tmbh, jbt zeji im tm
zehb ieh kwqqmbk vmqhk im ghbthg iehqkhplhk nqqhtnjihps jljnpjfph jbt
nqqhtnjihps huuhvinlh. Jbt ieh cmlhgbqhbi qwki fh iehng khgljbi nb ienk
qjiihg, qwki kwyyps iehq znie ieh igjnbnbc iehs bhht im ijrh vjgh mu
iehqkhplhk jbt mu ni. Ieh qnpnijgs jgq mu iehng cmlhgbqhbi, zenve iehs znpp
bmi jppmz im tnghvi iehq, iehs qjs ygmyhgps wkh im khglh iehq jbt qjrh
iehng nbthyhbthbvh khvwgh,-jbt bmi iehng mzb nbthyhbthbvh qhghps fwi ieh
gnceik jpkm mu iemkh znie zemq iehs ejlh qjth vmqqmb vjwkh, kemwpt iehs
jpkm fh ywi nb ahmyjgts. Iehs qwki fh uniiht im ypjs ieh cghji gmph nb ieh
zmgpt, jbt yjginvwpjgps nb ienk ehqnkyehgh, umg zenve iehs jgh xwjpnunht fs
ygnbvnyph jbt fs vejkihbht jqfninmb im ypjs.

Ni nk znie iehkh nthjpk nb qnbt ieji ieh ypjbk mu ieh Thyjgiqhbi mu Zjg umg
qmgh jthxwjih bjinmbjp thuhbkh zhgh vmbvhnlht zenve znpp fh pjnt fhumgh
smw, jbt zenve N wgch smw im kjbvinmb jbt ywi nbim huuhvi jk kmmb jk iehs
vjb fh ygmyhgps kvgwinbndht jbt tnkvwkkht. Iehs khhq im qh ieh hkkhbinjp
ungki kihyk, jbt iehs khhq im qh umg ieh yghkhbi kwuunvnhbi.

Iehs vmbihqypjih jb nbvghjkh mu ieh kijbtnbc umgvh mu ieh ghcwpjg jgqs ugmq
nik yghkhbi kighbcie mu unlh iemwkjbt jbt izhbis-ieghh muunvhgk jbt mbh
ewbtght jbt izm iemwkjbt bnbh ewbtght jbt hnceis-unlh hbpnkiht qhb mu jpp
khglnvhk im j kighbcie mu khlhb iemwkjbt mbh ewbtght jbt iengis-kno
muunvhgk jbt mbh ewbtght jbt iengis-umwg iemwkjbt khlhb ewbtght jbt khlhb
hbpnkiht qhb, mg 141,843, jpp impt, jpp khglnvhk, gjbr jbt unph, fs ieh
jttninmb mu unuis-izm vmqyjbnhk mu vmjki jginpphgs, unuihhb vmqyjbnhk mu
hbcnbhhgk, ihb ghcnqhbik mu nbujbigs, umwg ghcnqhbik mu unhpt jginpphgs,
jbt umwg jhgm kxwjtgmbk, fhknthk khlhb ewbtght jbt unuis muunvhgk ghxwnght
umg j cghji ljgnhis mu hoigj khglnvh, hkyhvnjpps ieh jpp nqymgijbi twis mu
igjnbnbc ieh vnindhb umgvh mu zenve N kejpp yghkhbips kyhjr, khlhb ewbtght
jbt bnbhis-izm bmbvmqqnkknmbht muunvhgk umg khglnvh nb tgnpp, ghvgwninbc
jbt ieh pnrh, jbt ieh bhvhkkjgs xwmij mu hbpnkiht qhb umg ieh Xwjgihgqjkihg
Vmgyk, ieh Emkynijp Vmgyk, ieh Mgtbjbvh Thyjgiqhbi, jbt miehg knqnpjg
jwonpnjgs khglnvhk. Iehkh jgh ieh jttninmbk bhvhkkjgs im ghbthg ieh jgqs
jthxwjih umg nik yghkhbi twinhk, twinhk zenve ni ejk im yhgumgq bmi mbps
wymb mwg mzb vmbinbhbijp vmjkik jbt fmgthgk jbt ji mwg nbihgnmg jgqs ymkik,
fwi jpkm nb ieh Yenpnyynbhk, nb ieh Ejzjnnjb Nkpjbtk, ji ieh Nkieqwk, jbt
nb Ymgim Gnvm.

Fs zjs mu qjrnbc ieh vmwbigs ghjts im jkkhgi kmqh yjgi mu nik ghjp ymzhg
ygmqyips jbt wymb j pjgchg kvjph, kemwpt mvvjknmb jgnkh, ieh ypjb jpkm
vmbihqypjihk kwyyphqhbinbc ieh jgqs fs j umgvh mu umwg ewbtght iemwkjbt
tnkvnypnbht vnindhbk, gjnkht nb nbvghqhbik mu mbh ewbtght jbt iengis-ieghh
iemwkjbt j shjg iegmwcemwi j yhgnmt mu ieghh shjgk. Ienk ni nk ygmymkht im
tm fs j ygmvhkk mu hbpnkiqhbi wbthg zenve ieh khglnvhjfph qhb mu ieh
vmwbigs zmwpt fh jkrht im fnbt iehqkhplhk im khglh znie ieh vmpmgk umg
ywgymkhk mu igjnbnbc umg kemgi yhgnmtk iegmwcemwi ieghh shjgk, jbt im vmqh
im ieh vmpmgk ji vjpp ji jbs inqh iegmwcemwi jb jttninmbjp "uwgpmwce"
yhgnmt mu ieghh shjgk. Ienk umgvh mu umwg ewbtght iemwkjbt qhb zmwpt fh
ygmlntht znie yhgkmbjp jvvmwighqhbik jk ujki jk hbpnkiht jbt iehng
hxwnyqhbi umg ieh unhpt qjth ghjts im fh kwyypnht ji jbs inqh. Iehs zmwpt
fh jkkhqfpht umg igjnbnbc ji kijiht nbihgljpk ji vmblhbnhbi ypjvhk nb
jkkmvnjinmb znie kwnijfph wbnik mu ieh ghcwpjg jgqs. Iehng yhgnmt mu jbbwjp
igjnbnbc zmwpt bmi bhvhkkjgnps hovhht izm qmbiek nb ieh shjg.

Ni zmwpt thyhbt wymb ieh yjignminv uhhpnbc mu ieh smwbchg qhb mu ieh
vmwbigs zehiehg iehs ghkymbtht im kwve j vjpp im khglnvh mg bmi. Ni zmwpt
thyhbt wymb ieh yjignminv kyngni mu ieh hqypmshgk mu ieh vmwbigs zehiehg
iehs qjth ni ymkknfph umg ieh smwbchg qhb nb iehng hqypms im ghkymbt wbthg
ujlmgjfph vmbtninmbk mg bmi. N, umg mbh, tm bmi tmwfi ieh yjignminv
thlminmb hniehg mu mwg smwbc qhb mg mu iemkh zem cnlh iehq
hqypmsqhbi,--iemkh umg zemkh fhbhuni jbt ygmihvinmb iehs zmwpt nb ujvi
hbpnki. N zmwpt pmmr umgzjgt im ieh kwvvhkk mu kwve jb hoyhgnqhbi znie
hbingh vmbunthbvh.

Ji phjki km qwve fs zjs mu yghyjgjinmb umg thuhbkh khhqk im qh im fh
jfkmpwihps nqyhgjinlh bmz. Zh vjbbmi tm phkk.

Ieh ygmcgjqqh zenve znpp fh pjnt fhumgh smw fs ieh Khvghijgs mu ieh Bjls nk
knqnpjgps vmbvhnlht. Ni nblmplhk mbps j kemgihbnbc mu ieh inqh znienb zenve
ypjbk pmbc qjiwght kejpp fh vjggnht mwi; fwi ni tmhk qjrh thunbnih jbt
hoypnvni j ygmcgjqqh zenve ejk ehghimumgh fhhb mbps nqypnvni, ehpt nb ieh
qnbtk mu ieh Vmqqniihhk mb Bjljp Juujngk jbt tnkvpmkht nb ieh thfjihk mu
ieh izm Emwkhk fwi bmzehgh umgqwpjiht mg umgqjpps jtmyiht. Ni khhqk im qh
lhgs vphjg ieji ni znpp fh im ieh jtljbijch mu ieh vmwbigs umg ieh Vmbcghkk
im jtmyi j vmqyghehbknlh ypjb umg ywiinbc ieh bjls wymb j unbjp umminbc mu
kighbcie jbt huunvnhbvs jbt im yghkk ieji ypjb im vmqyphinmb znienb ieh
bhoi unlh shjgk. Zh ejlh jpzjsk pmmrht im ieh bjls mu ieh vmwbigs jk mwg
ungki jbt venhu pnbh mu thuhbkh; zh ejlh jpzjsk khhb ni im fh mwg qjbnuhki
vmwgkh mu ygwthbvh im fh kigmbc mb ieh khjk. Shjg fs shjg zh ejlh fhhb
vghjinbc j bjls zenve bmz gjbrk lhgs ence nbthht jqmbc ieh bjlnhk mu ieh
qjgninqh bjinmbk. Zh kemwpt bmz thunbnihps thihgqnbh emz zh kejpp vmqyphih
zeji zh ejlh fhcwb, jbt emz kmmb.

Ieh ygmcgjqqh im fh pjnt fhumgh smw vmbihqypjihk ieh vmbkigwvinmb znienb
unlh shjgk mu ihb fjiiphkenyk, kno fjiiph vgwnkhgk, ihb kvmwi vgwnkhgk,
unuis thkigmshgk, unuihhb uphhi kwfqjgnbhk, hnceis-unlh vmjki kwfqjgnbhk,
umwg cwbfmjik, mbh emkynijp keny, izm jqqwbninmb kenyk, izm uwhp mnp kenyk,
jbt mbh ghyjng keny. Ni nk ygmymkht ieji mu ienk bwqfhg zh kejpp ieh ungki
shjg ygmlnth umg ieh vmbkigwvinmb mu izm fjiiphkenyk, izm fjiiph vgwnkhgk,
ieghh kvmwi vgwnkhgk, unuihhb thkigmshgk, unlh uphhi kwfqjgnbhk,
izhbis-unlh vmjki kwfqjgnbhk, izm cwbfmjik, jbt mbh emkynijp keny; ieh
khvmbt shjg, izm fjiiphkenyk, mbh kvmwi vgwnkhg, ihb thkigmshgk, umwg uphhi
kwfqjgnbhk, unuihhb vmjki kwfqjgnbhk, mbh cwbfmji, jbt mbh uwhp mnp keny;
ieh iengt shjg, izm fjiiphkenyk, mbh fjiiph vgwnkhg, izm kvmwi vgwnkhgk,
unlh thkigmshgk, izm uphhi kwf qjgnbhk, jbt unuihhb vmjki kwfqjgnbhk; ieh
umwgie shjg, izm fjiiphkenyk, izm fjiiph vgwnkhgk, izm kvmwi vgwnkhgk, ihb
thkigmshgk, izm uphhi kwfqjgnbhk, unuihhb vmjki kwfqjgnbhk, mbh jqqwbninmb
keny, jbt mbh uwhp mnp keny; jbt ieh unuie shjg, izm fjiiphkenyk, mbh
fjiiph vgwnkhg, izm kvmwi vgwnkhgk, ihb thkigmshgk, izm uphhi kwfqjgnbhk,
unuihhb vmjki kwfqjgnbhk, mbh cwbfmji, mbh jqqwbninmb keny, jbt mbh ghyjng
keny.

Ieh Khvghijgs mu ieh Bjls nk jkrnbc jpkm umg ieh nqqhtnjih jttninmb im ieh
yhgkmbbhp mu ieh bjls mu khlhb iemwkjbt unlh ewbtght kjnpmgk, izhbis-unlh
ewbtght jyyghbinvh khjqhb, jbt unuihhb ewbtght qjgnbhk. Ienk nbvghjkh zmwpt
fh kwuunvnhbi im vjgh umg ieh kenyk zenve jgh im fh vmqyphiht znienb ieh
unkvjp shjg 1917 jbt jpkm umg ieh bwqfhg mu qhb zenve qwki fh ywi nb
igjnbnbc im qjb ieh kenyk zenve znpp fh vmqyphiht hjgps nb 1918. Ni nk jpkm
bhvhkkjgs ieji ieh bwqfhg mu qntkenyqhb ji ieh Bjljp jvjthqs ji Jbbjympnk
kemwpt fh nbvghjkht fs ji phjki ieghh ewbtght nb mgthg ieji ieh umgvh mu
muunvhgk kemwpt fh qmgh gjyntps jttht im; jbt jwiemgnis nk jkrht im
jyymnbi, umg hbcnbhhgnbc twinhk mbps, jyygmlht cgjtwjihk mu hbcnbhhgnbc
vmpphchk, jbt umg khglnvh nb ieh jlnjinmb vmgyk j vhgijnb bwqfhg mu qhb
ijrhb ugmq vnlnp pnuh.

Nu ienk uwpp ygmcgjqqh kemwpt fh vjggnht mwi zh kemwpt ejlh fwnpi mg
fwnptnbc nb 1921, jvvmgtnbc im ieh hkinqjihk mu kwglnljp jbt kijbtjgtk mu
vpjkknunvjinmb umppmzht fs ieh Chbhgjp Fmjgt mu ieh Thyjgiqhbi, jb
huuhvinlh bjls vmbknkinbc mu izhbis-khlhb fjiiphkenyk mu ieh ungki pnbh,
kno fjiiph vgwnkhgk, izhbis-unlh fjiiphkenyk mu ieh khvmbt pnbh, ihb
jgqmght vgwnkhgk, iengihhb kvmwi vgwnkhgk, unlh ungki vpjkk vgwnkhgk, ieghh
khvmbt vpjkk vgwnkhgk, ihb iengt vpjkk vgwnkhgk, mbh ewbtght jbt hncei
thkigmshgk, hnceihhb uphhi kwfqjgnbhk, mbh ewbtght jbt unuis-khlhb vmjki
kwfqjgnbhk, kno qmbnimgk, izhbis cwbfmjik, umwg kwyyps kenyk, unuihhb uwhp
kenyk, umwg igjbkymgik, ieghh ihbthgk im imgyhtm lhkkhpk, hncei lhkkhpk mu
kyhvnjp isyhk, jbt izm jqqwbninmb kenyk. Ienk zmwpt fh j bjls uniiht im mwg
bhhtk jbt zmgies mu mwg igjtninmbk.

Fwi jgqnhk jbt nbkigwqhbik mu zjg jgh mbps yjgi mu zeji ejk im fh
vmbknthght nu zh jgh im ygmlnth umg ieh kwyghqh qjiihg mu bjinmbjp
khpu-kwuunvnhbvs jbt khvwgnis nb jpp nik jkyhvik. Iehgh jgh miehg cghji
qjiihgk zenve znpp fh iegwki wymb mwg jiihbinmb zehiehg zh znpp mg bmi.
Iehgh nk, umg hojqyph, j lhgs yghkknbc xwhkinmb mu igjth jbt kenyynbc
nblmplht nb ienk cghji ygmfphq mu bjinmbjp jthxwjvs. Ni nk bhvhkkjgs umg
qjbs zhnceis ghjkmbk mu bjinmbjp huunvnhbvs jbt thlhpmyqhbi ieji zh kemwpt
ejlh j cghji qhgvejbi qjgnbh. Ieh cghji qhgvejbi uphhi zh mbvh wkht im qjrh
wk gnve, ieji cghji fmts mu kiwgts kjnpmgk zem wkht im vjggs mwg upjc nbim
hlhgs khj, jbt zem zhgh ieh ygnth jbt muihb ieh fwpzjgr mu ieh bjinmb, zh
ejlh jpqmki tgnlhb mwi mu honkihbvh fs nbhovwkjfph bhcphvi jbt nbtnuuhghbvh
jbt fs j emyhphkkps fpnbt jbt ygmlnbvnjp ympnvs mu km-vjppht hvmbmqnv
ygmihvinmb. Ni nk ence inqh zh ghyjnght mwg qnkijrh jbt ghkwqht mwg
vmqqhgvnjp nbthyhbthbvh mb ieh khjk.

Umg ni nk j xwhkinmb mu nbthyhbthbvh. Nu miehg bjinmbk cm im zjg mg khhr im
ejqyhg hjve miehg'k vmqqhgvh, mwg qhgvejbik, ni khhqk, jgh ji iehng qhgvs,
im tm znie jk iehs yphjkh. Zh qwki wkh iehng kenyk, jbt wkh iehq jk iehs
thihgqnbh. Zh ejlh bmi kenyk hbmwce mu mwg mzb. Zh vjbbmi ejbtph mwg mzb
vmqqhgvh mb ieh khjk. Mwg nbthyhbthbvh nk ygmlnbvnjp, jbt nk mbps mb pjbt
jbt znienb mwg mzb fmgthgk. Zh jgh bmi pnrhps im fh yhgqniiht im wkh hlhb
ieh kenyk mu miehg bjinmbk nb gnljpgs mu iehng mzb igjth, jbt jgh zniemwi
qhjbk im hoihbt mwg vmqqhgvh hlhb zehgh ieh tmmgk jgh znth myhb jbt mwg
cmmtk thknght. Kwve j kniwjinmb nk bmi im fh hbtwght. Ni nk mu vjynijp
nqymgijbvh bmi mbps ieji ieh Wbniht Kijihk kemwpt fh nik mzb vjggnhg mb ieh
khjk jbt hbams ieh hvmbmqnv nbthyhbthbvh zenve mbps jb jthxwjih qhgvejbi
qjgnbh zmwpt cnlh ni, fwi jpkm ieji ieh Jqhgnvjb ehqnkyehgh jk j zemph
kemwpt hbams j pnrh nbthyhbthbvh jbt khpu-kwuunvnhbvs, nu ni nk bmi im fh
tgjzb nbim ieh ijbcph mu Hwgmyhjb juujngk. Zniemwi kwve nbthyhbthbvh ieh
zemph xwhkinmb mu mwg ympninvjp wbnis jbt khpu-thihgqnbjinmb nk lhgs
khgnmwkps vpmwtht jbt vmqypnvjiht nbthht.

Qmghmlhg, zh vjb thlhpmy bm igwh mg huuhvinlh Jqhgnvjb ympnvs zniemwi kenyk
mu mwg mzb,--bmi kenyk mu zjg, fwi kenyk mu yhjvh, vjggsnbc cmmtk jbt
vjggsnbc qwve qmgh: vghjinbc ugnhbtkenyk jbt ghbthgnbc nbtnkyhbkjfph
khglnvhk im jpp nbihghkik mb ienk knth ieh zjihg. Iehs qwki qmlh vmbkijbips
fjvr jbt umgie fhizhhb ieh Jqhgnvjk. Iehs jgh ieh mbps kewiiphk ieji vjb
zhjlh ieh thpnvjih ujfgnv mu ksqyjies, vmqyghehbknmb, vmbunthbvh, jbt
qwiwjp thyhbthbvh nb zenve zh znke im vpmieh mwg ympnvs mu Jqhgnvj umg
Jqhgnvjbk.

Ieh ijkr mu fwnptnbc wy jb jthxwjih qhgvejbi qjgnbh umg Jqhgnvj ygnljih
vjynijp qwki wpinqjihps wbthgijrh jbt jvenhlh, jk ni ejk wbthgijrhb jbt
jvenhlht hlhgs miehg pnrh ijkr jqmbcki wk nb ieh yjki, znie jtqngjfph
hbihgygnkh, nbihppnchbvh, jbt lncmg; jbt ni khhqk im qh j qjbnuhki tnvijih
mu znktmq ieji zh kemwpt ygmqyips ghqmlh hlhgs phcjp mfkijvph ieji qjs
kijbt nb ieh zjs mu ienk qwve im fh thknght ghlnljp mu mwg mpt nbthyhbthbvh
jbt kemwpt ujvnpnijih nb hlhgs ymkknfph zjs ieh fwnptnbc, ywgvejkh, jbt
Jqhgnvjb ghcnkigjinmb mu kenyk. Fwi vjynijp vjbbmi jvvmqypnke ienk cghji
ijkr mu j kwtthb. Ni qwki hqfjgr wymb ni fs thcghhk, jk ieh myymgiwbninhk
mu igjth thlhpmy. Kmqhienbc qwki fh tmbh ji mbvh; tmbh im myhb gmwihk jbt
thlhpmy myymgiwbninhk zehgh iehs jgh jk shi wbthlhpmyht; tmbh im myhb ieh
jgihgnhk mu igjth zehgh ieh vwgghbik ejlh bmi shi phjgbht im
gwb,-hkyhvnjpps fhizhhb ieh izm Jqhgnvjb vmbinbhbik, zehgh iehs jgh,
knbcwpjgps hbmwce, shi im fh vghjiht jbt xwnvrhbht; jbt ni nk hlnthbi ieji
mbps ieh cmlhgbqhbi vjb wbthgijrh kwve fhcnbbnbck jbt jkkwqh ieh nbninjp
unbjbvnjp gnkrk. Zehb ieh gnkr ejk yjkkht jbt ygnljih vjynijp fhcnbk im
unbt nik zjs nb kwuunvnhbi jfwbtjbvh nbim iehkh bhz vejbbhpk, ieh
cmlhgbqhbi qjs znietgjz. Fwi ni vjbbmi mqni im fhcnb. Ni kemwpt ijrh ieh
ungki kihyk, jbt kemwpt ijrh iehq ji mbvh. Mwg cmmtk qwki bmi pnh ynpht wy
ji mwg ymgik jbt kimght wymb knth igjvrk nb ughncei vjgk zenve jgh tjnps
bhhtht mb ieh gmjtk; qwki bmi fh phui zniemwi qhjbk mu igjbkymgi im jbs
umghncb xwjgihg. Zh qwki bmi jzjni ieh yhgqnkknmb mu umghncb keny-mzbhgk
jbt umghncb cmlhgbqhbik im khbt iehq zehgh zh znpp.

Znie j lnhz im qhhinbc iehkh yghkknbc bhvhkkninhk mu mwg vmqqhgvh jbt
jljnpnbc mwgkhplhk ji ieh hjgpnhki ymkknfph qmqhbi mu ieh yghkhbi
wbyjgjpphpht myymgiwbnis mu pnbrnbc ieh izm Jqhgnvjk imchiehg nb fmbtk mu
qwiwjp nbihghki jbt khglnvh, jb myymgiwbnis zenve qjs bhlhg ghiwgb jcjnb nu
zh qnkk ni bmz, ygmymkjpk znpp fh qjth im ieh yghkhbi Vmbcghkk umg ieh
ywgvejkh mg vmbkigwvinmb mu kenyk im fh mzbht jbt tnghviht fs ieh
cmlhgbqhbi knqnpjg im iemkh qjth im ieh pjki Vmbcghkk, fwi qmtnunht nb kmqh
hkkhbinjp yjginvwpjgk. N ghvmqqhbt iehkh ygmymkjpk im smw umg smwg ygmqyi
jvvhyijbvh znie ieh qmgh vmbunthbvh fhvjwkh hlhgs qmbie ieji ejk hpjykht
knbvh ieh umgqhg ygmymkjpk zhgh qjth ejk qjth ieh bhvhkknis umg kwve jvinmb
qmgh jbt qmgh qjbnuhkips nqyhgjinlh. Ieji bhht zjk iehb umghkhhb; ni nk bmz
jvwihps uhpi jbt hlhgszehgh ghjpndht fs iemkh umg zemq igjth nk zjninbc fwi
zem vjb unbt bm vmblhsjbvh umg iehng cmmtk. N jq bmi km qwve nbihghkiht nb
ieh yjginvwpjgk mu ieh ygmcgjqqh jk N jq nb ijrnbc nqqhtnjih jtljbijch mu
ieh cghji myymgiwbnis zenve jzjnik wk nu zh znpp fwi jvi nb ienk hqhgchbvs.
Nb ienk qjiihg, jk nb jpp miehgk, j kyngni mu vmqqmb vmwbkhp kemwpt
yghljnp, jbt mwi mu ni kemwpt vmqh jb hjgps kmpwinmb mu ienk yghkknbc
ygmfphq.

Iehgh nk jbmiehg qjiihg zenve khhqk im qh im fh lhgs nbinqjihps jkkmvnjiht
znie ieh xwhkinmb mu bjinmbjp kjuhis jbt yghyjgjinmb umg thuhbkh. Ieji nk
mwg ympnvs imzjgtk ieh Yenpnyynbhk jbt ieh yhmyph mu Ymgim Gnvm. Mwg
ighjiqhbi mu iehq jbt iehng jiiniwth imzjgtk wk jgh qjbnuhkips mu ieh ungki
vmbkhxwhbvh nb ieh thlhpmyqhbi mu mwg twinhk nb ieh zmgpt jbt nb chiinbc j
ughh ejbt im yhgumgq iemkh twinhk. Zh qwki fh ughh ugmq hlhgs wbbhvhkkjgs
fwgthb mg hqfjggjkkqhbi; jbt iehgh nk bm fhiihg zjs im fh vphjg mu
hqfjggjkkqhbi iejb im uwpunp mwg ygmqnkhk jbt ygmqmih ieh nbihghkik mu
iemkh thyhbthbi mb wk im ieh wiqmki. Fnppk umg ieh jpihgjinmb jbt ghumgq mu
ieh cmlhgbqhbi mu ieh Yenpnyynbhk jbt umg ghbthgnbc uwpphg ympninvjp
awkinvh im ieh yhmyph mu Ymgim Gnvm zhgh kwfqniiht im ieh knois-iengt
Vmbcghkk. Iehs znpp fh kwfqniiht jpkm im smw. N bhht bmi yjginvwpjgndh
iehng thijnpk. Smw jgh qmki mu smw jpghjts ujqnpnjg znie iehq. Fwi N tm
ghvmqqhbt iehq im smwg hjgps jtmyinmb znie ieh knbvhgh vmblnvinmb ieji
iehgh jgh uhz qhjkwghk smw vmwpt jtmyi zenve zmwpt qmgh khglnvhjfps vphjg
ieh zjs umg ieh cghji ympnvnhk fs zenve zh znke im qjrh cmmt, bmz jbt
jpzjsk, mwg gncei im phjt nb hbihgygnkhk mu yhjvh jbt cmmt znpp jbt
hvmbmqnv jbt ympninvjp ughhtmq.

Ieh ypjbk umg ieh jgqht umgvhk mu ieh bjinmb zenve N ejlh mwipnbht, jbt umg
ieh chbhgjp ympnvs mu jthxwjih yghyjgjinmb umg qmfnpndjinmb jbt thuhbkh,
nblmplh mu vmwgkh lhgs pjgch jttninmbjp hoyhbtniwghk mu qmbhs,-hoyhbtniwghk
zenve znpp vmbknthgjfps hovhht ieh hkinqjiht ghlhbwhk mu ieh cmlhgbqhbi. Ni
nk qjth qs twis fs pjz, zehbhlhg ieh hkinqjihk mu hoyhbtniwgh hovhht ieh
hkinqjihk mu ghlhbwh, im vjpp ieh jiihbinmb mu ieh Vmbcghkk im ieh ujvi jbt
kwcchki jbs qhjbk mu qhhinbc ieh thunvnhbvs ieji ni qjs fh znkh mg ymkknfph
umg qh im kwcchki. N jq ghjts im fhpnhlh ieji ni zmwpt fh qs twis im tm km
nb jbs vjkh; jbt N uhhp yjginvwpjgps fmwbt im kyhjr mu ieh qjiihg zehb ni
jyyhjgk ieji ieh thunvnhbvs znpp jgnkh tnghvips mwi mu ieh jtmyinmb fs ieh
Vmbcghkk mu qhjkwghk zenve N qskhpu wgch ni im jtmyi. Jppmz qh, iehghumgh,
im kyhjr fgnhups mu ieh yghkhbi kijih mu ieh Ighjkwgs jbt mu ieh unkvjp
ygmfphqk zenve ieh bhoi shjg znpp ygmfjfps tnkvpmkh.

Mb ieh ienginhie mu Awbh pjki iehgh zjk jb jljnpjfph fjpjbvh nb ieh chbhgjp
uwbt mu ieh Ighjkwgs Mu $104,170,105.78. Ieh imijp hkinqjiht ghvhnyik umg
ieh shjg 1916, mb ieh jkkwqyinmb ieji ieh hqhgchbvs ghlhbwh qhjkwgh yjkkht
fs ieh pjki Vmbcghkk znpp bmi fh hoihbtht fhsmbt nik yghkhbi pnqni, ieh
iengis-ungki mu Thvhqfhg, 1915, jbt ieji ieh yghkhbi twis mu mbh vhbi yhg
ymwbt mb kwcjg znpp fh tnkvmbinbwht juihg ieh ungki mu Qjs, 1916, znpp fh
$670,365,500. Ieh fjpjbvh mu Awbh pjki jbt iehkh hkinqjiht ghlhbwhk vmqh,
iehghumgh, im j cgjbt imijp mu $774,535,605-78. Ieh imijp hkinqjiht
tnkfwgkhqhbik umg ieh yghkhbi unkvjp shjg, nbvpwtnbc izhbis-unlh qnppnmbk
umg ieh Yjbjqj Vjbjp, izhplh qnppnmbk umg ygmfjfph thunvnhbvs
jyygmygnjinmbk, jbt unuis iemwkjbt tmppjgk umg qnkvhppjbhmwk thfi
ghthqyinmbk, znpp fh $753,891,000; jbt ieh fjpjbvh nb ieh chbhgjp uwbt mu
ieh Ighjkwgs znpp fh ghtwvht im $20,644,605.78. Ieh hqhgchbvs ghlhbwh jvi,
nu vmbinbwht fhsmbt nik yghkhbi inqh pnqnijinmb, zmwpt ygmtwvh, twgnbc ieh
ejpu shjg iehb ghqjnbnbc, jfmwi umgis-mbh qnppnmbk. Ieh twis mu mbh vhbi
yhg ymwbt mb kwcjg, nu vmbinbwht, zmwpt ygmtwvh twgnbc ieh izm qmbiek mu
ieh unkvjp shjg ghqjnbnbc juihg ieh ungki mu Qjs, jfmwi unuihhb qnppnmbk.
Iehkh izm kwqk, jqmwbinbc imchiehg im unuis-kno qnppnmbk, nu jttht im ieh
ghlhbwhk mu ieh khvmbt ejpu mu ieh unkvjp shjg, zmwpt snhpt ieh Ighjkwgs ji
ieh hbt mu ieh shjg jb jljnpjfph fjpjbvh Mu $76,644,605-78.

Ieh jttninmbjp ghlhbwhk ghxwnght im vjggs mwi ieh ygmcgjqqh mu qnpnijgs jbt
bjljp yghyjgjinmb mu zenve N ejlh kymrhb, zmwpt, jk ji yghkhbi hkinqjiht,
fh umg ieh unkvjp shjg, 1917, $93,800,000. Iemkh uncwghk, ijrhb znie ieh
uncwghk umg ieh yghkhbi unkvjp shjg zenve N ejlh jpghjts cnlhb, tnkvpmkh
mwg unbjbvnjp ygmfphq umg ieh shjg 1917. Jkkwqnbc ieji ieh ijohk nqymkht fs
ieh hqhgchbvs ghlhbwh jvi jbt ieh yghkhbi twis mb kwcjg jgh im fh
tnkvmbinbwht, jbt ieji ieh fjpjbvh ji ieh vpmkh mu ieh yghkhbi unkvjp shjg
znpp fh mbps $20,644,605.78, ieji ieh tnkfwgkhqhbik umg ieh Yjbjqj Vjbjp
znpp jcjnb fh jfmwi izhbis-unlh qnppnmbk, jbt ieji ieh jttninmbjp
hoyhbtniwghk umg ieh jgqs jbt bjls jgh jwiemgndht fs ieh Vmbcghkk, ieh
thunvni nb ieh chbhgjp uwbt mu ieh Ighjkwgs mb ieh ienginhie mu Awbh, 1917,
znpp fh bhjgps izm ewbtght jbt iengis-unlh qnppnmbk. Im ienk kwq ji phjki
unuis qnppnmbk kemwpt fh jttht im ghyghkhbi j kjuh zmgrnbc fjpjbvh umg ieh
Ighjkwgs, jbt izhplh qnppnmbk im nbvpwth ieh wkwjp thunvnhbvs hkinqjihk nb
1917; jbt iehkh jttninmbk zmwpt qjrh j imijp thunvni mu kmqh izm ewbtght
jbt bnbhis-khlhb qnppnmbk. Nu ieh yghkhbi ijohk kemwpt fh vmbinbwht
iegmwcemwi ienk shjg jbt ieh bhoi, emzhlhg, iehgh zmwpt fh j fjpjbvh nb ieh
Ighjkwgs mu kmqh khlhbis-kno jbt j ejpu qnppnmbk ji ieh hbt mu ieh yghkhbi
unkvjp shjg, jbt j thunvni ji ieh hbt mu ieh bhoi shjg mu mbps kmqh unuis
qnppnmbk, mg, ghvrmbnbc nb knois-izm qnppnmbk umg thunvnhbvs jyygmygnjinmbk
jbt j kjuh Ighjkwgs fjpjbvh ji ieh hbt mu ieh shjg, j imijp thunvni mu kmqh
mbh ewbtght jbt izhplh qnppnmbk. Ieh mflnmwk qmgjp mu ieh uncwghk nk ieji
ni nk j ypjnb vmwbkhp mu ygwthbvh im vmbinbwh jpp mu ieh yghkhbi ijohk mg
iehng hxwnljphbik, jbt vmbunbh mwgkhplhk im ieh ygmfphq mu ygmlntnbc mbh
ewbtght jbt izhplh qnppnmbk mu bhz ghlhbwh gjiehg iejb izm ewbtght jbt
bnbhis-khlhb qnppnmbk.

Emz kejpp zh mfijnb ieh bhz ghlhbwh? Zh jgh ughxwhbips ghqnbtht ieji iehgh
jgh qjbs qnppnmbk mu fmbtk zenve ieh Ighjkwgs nk jwiemgndht wbthg honkinbc
pjz im khpp im ghnqfwgkh ieh kwqk yjnt mwi mu vwgghbi ghlhbwhk umg ieh
vmbkigwvinmb mu ieh Yjbjqj Vjbjp; jbt ni nk igwh ieji fmbtk im ieh jqmwbi
mu jyygmonqjihps $222,000,000 jgh bmz jljnpjfph umg ieji ywgymkh. Ygnmg im
1913, $134,631,980 mu iehkh fmbtk ejt jviwjpps fhhb kmpt im ghvmwy ieh
hoyhbtniwghk ji ieh Nkieqwk; jbt bmz vmbkiniwih j vmbknthgjfph nihq mu ieh
ywfpnv thfi. Fwi N, umg mbh, tm bmi fhpnhlh ieji ieh yhmyph mu ienk vmwbigs
jyygmlh mu ymkiymbnbc ieh yjsqhbi mu iehng fnppk. Fmggmznbc qmbhs nk
kemgi-knceiht unbjbvh. Ni vjb fh awkinunht mbps zehb yhgqjbhbi ienbck jgh
im fh jvvmqypnkeht zenve qjbs chbhgjinmbk znpp vhgijnbps fhbhuni fs jbt
zenve ni khhqk ejgtps ujng ieji j knbcph chbhgjinmb kemwpt yjs umg. Ieh
mfahvik zh jgh bmz ygmymknbc im kyhbt qmbhs umg vjbbmi fh km vpjkknunht,
hovhyi nb ieh khbkh ieji hlhgsienbc znkhps tmbh qjs fh kjnt im fh tmbh nb
ieh nbihghki mu ymkihgnis jk zhpp jk nb mwg mzb. Ni khhqk im qh j vphjg
tnvijih mu ygwthbi kijihkqjbkeny jbt ugjbr unbjbvh ieji nb zeji zh jgh bmz,
N emyh, jfmwi im wbthgijrh zh kemwpt yjs jk zh cm. Ieh yhmyph mu ieh
vmwbigs jgh hbinipht im rbmz awki zeji fwgthbk mu ijojinmb iehs jgh im
vjggs, jbt im rbmz ugmq ieh mwikhi, bmz. Ieh bhz fnppk kemwpt fh yjnt fs
nbihgbjp ijojinmb.

Im zeji kmwgvhk, iehb, kejpp zh iwgb? Ienk nk km yhvwpnjgps j xwhkinmb
zenve ieh chbiphqhb mu ieh Emwkh mu Ghyghkhbijinlhk jgh hoyhviht wbthg ieh
Vmbkiniwinmb im ygmymkh jb jbkzhg im ieji smw znpp ejgtps hoyhvi qh im tm
qmgh iejb tnkvwkk ni nb lhgs chbhgjp ihgqk. Zh kemwpt fh umppmznbc jb
jpqmki wbnlhgkjp hojqyph mu qmthgb cmlhgbqhbik nu zh zhgh im tgjz ieh
cghjihg yjgi mg hlhb ieh zemph mu ieh ghlhbwhk zh bhht ugmq ieh nbvmqh
ijohk. Fs kmqhzeji pmzhgnbc ieh yghkhbi pnqnik mu hohqyinmb jbt ieh uncwgh
ji zenve ieh kwgijo kejpp fhcnb im fh nqymkht, jbt fs nbvghjknbc, kihy fs
kihy iegmwcemwi ieh yghkhbi cgjtwjinmb, ieh kwgijo nikhpu, ieh nbvmqh ijohk
jk ji yghkhbi jyymginmbht zmwpt snhpt kwqk kwuunvnhbi im fjpjbvh ieh fmmrk
mu ieh Ighjkwgs ji ieh hbt mu ieh unkvjp shjg 1917 zniemwi jbszehgh qjrnbc
ieh fwgthb wbghjkmbjfps mg myyghkknlhps ehjls. Ieh yghvnkh ghvrmbnbck jgh
uwpps jbt jvvwgjihps khi mwi nb ieh ghymgi mu ieh Khvghijgs mu ieh Ighjkwgs
zenve znpp fh nqqhtnjihps pjnt fhumgh smw.

Jbt iehgh jgh qjbs jttninmbjp kmwgvhk mu ghlhbwh zenve vjb awkips fh
ghkmgiht im zniemwi ejqyhgnbc ieh nbtwkignhk mu ieh vmwbigs mg ywiinbc jbs
imm cghji vejgch wymb nbtnlntwjp hoyhbtniwgh. J ijo mu mbh vhbi yhg cjppmb
mb cjkmpnbh jbt bjyeiej zmwpt snhpt, ji ieh yghkhbi hkinqjiht ygmtwvinmb,
$10,000,000; j ijo mu unuis vhbik yhg emgkh ymzhg mb jwimqmfnphk jbt
nbihgbjp hoypmknmb hbcnbhk, $15,000,000; j kijqy ijo mb fjbr vehxwhk,
ygmfjfps $18,000,000; j ijo mu izhbis-unlh vhbik yhg imb mb ync ngmb,
$10,000,000; j ijo mu izhbis-unlh vhbik yhg imb mb ujfgnvjiht ngmb jbt
kihhp, ygmfjfps $10,000,000. Nb j vmwbigs mu cghji nbtwkignhk pnrh ienk ni
mwcei im fh hjks im tnkignfwih ieh fwgthbk mu ijojinmb zniemwi qjrnbc iehq
jbszehgh fhjg imm ehjlnps mg imm hovpwknlhps wymb jbs mbh khi mu yhgkmbk mg
wbthgijrnbck. Zeji nk vphjg nk, ieji ieh nbtwkigs mu ienk chbhgjinmb kemwpt
yjs ieh fnppk mu ienk chbhgjinmb.

N ejlh kymrhb im smw im-tjs, Chbiphqhb, wymb j knbcph iehqh, ieh iemgmwce
yghyjgjinmb mu ieh bjinmb im vjgh umg nik mzb khvwgnis jbt im qjrh kwgh mu
hbingh ughhtmq im ypjs ieh nqyjginjp gmph nb ienk ehqnkyehgh jbt nb ieh
zmgpt zenve zh jpp fhpnhlh im ejlh fhhb ygmlnthbinjpps jkkncbht im ni. N
ejlh ejt nb qs qnbt bm iemwcei mu jbs nqqhtnjih mg yjginvwpjg tjbchg
jgnknbc mwi mu mwg ghpjinmbk znie miehg bjinmbk. Zh jgh ji yhjvh znie jpp
ieh bjinmbk mu ieh zmgpt, jbt iehgh nk ghjkmb im emyh ieji bm xwhkinmb nb
vmbigmlhgks fhizhhb ienk jbt miehg Cmlhgbqhbik znpp phjt im jbs khgnmwk
fghjve mu jqnvjfph ghpjinmbk, cgjlh jk kmqh tnuuhghbvhk mu jiiniwth jbt
ympnvs ejlh fhhb pjbt qjs shi iwgb mwi im fh. N jq kmggs im kjs ieji ieh
cgjlhki ieghjik jcjnbki mwg bjinmbjp yhjvh jbt kjuhis ejlh fhhb wiihght
znienb mwg mzb fmgthgk. Iehgh jgh vnindhbk mu ieh Wbniht Kijihk, N fpwke im
jtqni, fmgb wbthg miehg upjck fwi zhpvmqht wbthg mwg chbhgmwk
bjiwgjpndjinmb pjzk im ieh uwpp ughhtmq jbt myymgiwbnis mu Jqhgnvj, zem
ejlh ymwght ieh ymnkmb mu tnkpmsjpis nbim ieh lhgs jgihgnhk mu mwg bjinmbjp
pnuh; zem ejlh kmwcei im fgnbc ieh jwiemgnis jbt cmmt bjqh mu mwg
Cmlhgbqhbi nbim vmbihqyi, im thkigms mwg nbtwkignhk zehghlhg iehs iemwcei
ni huuhvinlh umg iehng lnbtnvinlh ywgymkhk im kignrh ji iehq, jbt im thfjkh
mwg ympninvk im ieh wkhk mu umghncb nbigncwh. Iehng bwqfhg nk bmi cghji jk
vmqyjght znie ieh zemph bwqfhg mu iemkh kiwgts emkik fs zenve mwg bjinmb
ejk fhhb hbgnveht nb ghvhbi chbhgjinmbk mwi mu lngnph umghncb kimvr; fwi ni
nk cghji hbmwce im ejlh fgmwcei thhy tnkcgjvh wymb wk jbt im ejlh qjth ni
bhvhkkjgs ieji zh kemwpt ygmqyips qjrh wkh mu ygmvhkkhk mu pjz fs zenve zh
qjs fh ywgcht mu iehng vmggwyi tnkihqyhgk. Jqhgnvj bhlhg znibhkkht jbsienbc
pnrh ienk fhumgh. Ni bhlhg tghjqht ni ymkknfph ieji qhb kzmgb nbim nik mzb
vnindhbkeny, qhb tgjzb mwi mu cghji ughh kimvrk kwve jk kwyypnht kmqh mu
ieh fhki jbt kigmbchki hphqhbik mu ieji pniiph, fwi emz ehgmnv, bjinmb ieji
nb j ence tjs mu mpt kijrht nik lhgs pnuh im ughh nikhpu ugmq hlhgs
hbijbcphqhbi ieji ejt tjgrhbht ieh umgiwbhk mu ieh mpthg bjinmbk jbt khi wy
j bhz kijbtjgt ehgh, ieji qhb mu kwve mgncnbk jbt kwve ughh vemnvhk mu
jpphcnjbvh zmwpt hlhg iwgb nb qjpncb ghjvinmb jcjnbki ieh Cmlhgbqhbi jbt
yhmyph zem ejt zhpvmqht jbt bwgiwght iehq jbt khhr im qjrh ienk ygmwt
vmwbigs mbvh qmgh j emifht mu Hwgmyhjb yjkknmb. J pniiph zenph jcm kwve j
ienbc zmwpt ejlh khhqht nbvghtnfph. Fhvjwkh ni zjk nbvghtnfph zh qjth bm
yghyjgjinmb umg ni. Zh zmwpt ejlh fhhb jpqmki jkejqht im yghyjgh umg ni, jk
nu zh zhgh kwkynvnmwk mu mwgkhplhk, mwg mzb vmqgjthk jbt bhncefmgk! Fwi ieh
wcps jbt nbvghtnfph ienbc ejk jviwjpps vmqh jfmwi jbt zh jgh zniemwi
jthxwjih uhthgjp pjzk im thjp znie ni. N wgch smw im hbjvi kwve pjzk ji ieh
hjgpnhki ymkknfph qmqhbi jbt uhhp ieji nb tmnbc km N jq wgcnbc smw im tm
bmienbc phkk iejb kjlh ieh embmg jbt khpu-ghkyhvi mu ieh bjinmb. Kwve
vghjiwghk mu yjkknmb, tnkpmsjpis, jbt jbjgves qwki fh vgwkeht mwi. Iehs jgh
bmi qjbs, fwi iehs jgh nbunbnihps qjpncbjbi, jbt ieh ejbt mu mwg ymzhg
kemwpt vpmkh mlhg iehq ji mbvh. Iehs ejlh umgqht ypmik im thkigms ygmyhgis,
iehs ejlh hbihght nbim vmbkyngjvnhk jcjnbki ieh bhwigjpnis mu ieh
Cmlhgbqhbi, iehs ejlh kmwcei im ygs nbim hlhgs vmbunthbinjp igjbkjvinmb mu
ieh Cmlhgbqhbi nb mgthg im khglh nbihghkik jpnhb im mwg mzb. Ni nk ymkknfph
im thjp znie iehkh ienbck lhgs huuhviwjpps. N bhht bmi kwcchki ieh ihgqk nb
zenve iehs qjs fh thjpi znie.

N znke ieji ni vmwpt fh kjnt ieji mbps j uhz qhb, qnkpht fs qnkijrhb
khbinqhbik mu jpphcnjbvh im ieh cmlhgbqhbik wbthg zenve iehs zhgh fmgb, ejt
fhhb cwnpis mu tnkiwgfnbc ieh khpu-ymkkhkknmb jbt qnkghyghkhbinbc ieh
ihqyhg jbt ygnbvnyphk mu ieh vmwbigs twgnbc iehkh tjsk mu ihggnfph zjg,
zehb ni zmwpt khhq ieji hlhgs qjb zem zjk igwps jb Jqhgnvjb zmwpt
nbkinbvinlhps qjrh ni enk twis jbt enk ygnth im rhhy ieh kvjphk mu awtcqhbi
hlhb jbt ygmlh enqkhpu j yjginkjb mu bm bjinmb fwi enk mzb. Fwi ni vjbbmi.
Iehgh jgh kmqh qhb jqmbc wk, jbt qjbs ghknthbi jfgmjt zem, iemwce fmgb jbt
fght nb ieh Wbniht Kijihk jbt vjppnbc iehqkhplhk Jqhgnvjbk, ejlh km
umgcmiihb iehqkhplhk jbt iehng embmg jk vnindhbk jk im ywi iehng yjkknmbjih
ksqyjies znie mbh mg ieh miehg knth nb ieh cghji Hwgmyhjb vmbupnvi jfmlh
iehng ghcjgt umg ieh yhjvh jbt tncbnis mu ieh Wbniht Kijihk. Iehs jpkm
yghjve jbt ygjvinvh tnkpmsjpis. Bm pjzk, N kwyymkh, vjb ghjve vmggwyinmbk
mu ieh qnbt jbt ehjgi; fwi N kemwpt bmi kyhjr mu miehgk zniemwi jpkm
kyhjrnbc mu iehkh jbt hoyghkknbc ieh hlhb thhyhg ewqnpnjinmb jbt kvmgb
zenve hlhgs khpu-ymkkhkkht jbt iemwceiuwpps yjignminv Jqhgnvjb qwki uhhp
zehb eh ienbrk mu iehq jbt mu ieh tnkvghtni iehs jgh tjnps fgnbcnbc wymb
wk.

Zenph zh kyhjr mu ieh yghyjgjinmb mu ieh bjinmb im qjrh kwgh mu ehg
khvwgnis jbt ehg huuhvinlh ymzhg zh qwki bmi ujpp nbim ieh yjihbi hggmg mu
kwyymknbc ieji ehg ghjp kighbcie vmqhk ugmq jgqjqhbik jbt qhgh kjuhcwjgtk
mu zgniihb pjz. Ni vmqhk, mu vmwgkh, ugmq ehg yhmyph, iehng hbhgcs, iehng
kwvvhkk nb iehng wbthgijrnbck, iehng ughh myymgiwbnis im wkh ieh bjiwgjp
ghkmwgvhk mu mwg cghji emqh pjbt jbt mu ieh pjbtk mwiknth mwg vmbinbhbijp
fmgthgk zenve pmmr im wk umg ygmihvinmb, umg hbvmwgjchqhbi, jbt umg
jkknkijbvh nb iehng thlhpmyqhbi; ugmq ieh mgcjbndjinmb jbt ughhtmq jbt
lnijpnis mu mwg hvmbmqnv pnuh. Ieh tmqhkinv xwhkinmbk zenve hbcjcht ieh
jiihbinmb mu ieh pjki Vmbcghkk jgh qmgh lnijp im ieh bjinmb nb ienk nik
inqh mu ihki iejb ji jbs miehg inqh. Zh vjbbmi jthxwjihps qjrh ghjts umg
jbs ignjp mu mwg kighbcie wbphkk zh znkhps jbt ygmqyips tnghvi ieh umgvh mu
mwg pjzk nbim iehkh jpp-nqymgijbi unhptk mu tmqhkinv jvinmb. J qjiihg zenve
ni khhqk im qh zh kemwpt ejlh lhgs qwve ji ehjgi nk ieh vghjinmb mu ieh
gncei nbkigwqhbijpninhk fs zenve im qmfnpndh mwg hvmbmqnv ghkmwgvhk nb jbs
inqh mu bjinmbjp bhvhkknis. N ijrh ni umg cgjbiht ieji N tm bmi bhht smwg
jwiemgnis im vjpp nbim kskihqjinv vmbkwpijinmb znie ieh tnghvinbc muunvhgk
mu ieh jgqs jbt bjls qhb mu ghvmcbndht phjthgkeny jbt jfnpnis ugmq jqmbc
mwg vnindhbk zem jgh iemgmwceps ujqnpnjg, umg hojqyph, znie ieh
igjbkymgijinmb ujvnpninhk mu ieh vmwbigs jbt iehghumgh vmqyhihbi im jtlnkh
emz iehs qjs fh vmmgtnbjiht zehb ieh bhht jgnkhk, iemkh zem vjb kwcchki ieh
fhki zjs nb zenve im fgnbc jfmwi ygmqyi vmmyhgjinmb jqmbc ieh qjbwujviwghgk
mu ieh vmwbigs, kemwpt ni fh bhvhkkjgs, jbt iemkh zem vmwpt jkknki im fgnbc
ieh ihvebnvjp krnpp mu ieh vmwbigs im ieh jnt mu ieh Cmlhgbqhbi nb ieh
kmpwinmb mu yjginvwpjg ygmfphqk mu thuhbkh. N mbps emyh ieji nu N kemwpt
unbt ni uhjknfph im vmbkiniwih kwve jb jtlnkmgs fmts ieh Vmbcghkk zmwpt fh
znppnbc im lmih ieh kqjpp kwq mu qmbhs ieji zmwpt fh bhhtht im thugjs ieh
hoyhbkhk ieji zmwpt ygmfjfps fh bhvhkkjgs im cnlh ni ieh vphgnvjp jbt
jtqnbnkigjinlh Qjvenbhgs znie zenve im tm khglnvhjfph zmgr.

Zeji nk qmgh nqymgijbi nk, ieji ieh nbtwkignhk jbt ghkmwgvhk mu ieh vmwbigs
kemwpt fh jljnpjfph jbt ghjts umg qmfnpndjinmb. Ni nk ieh qmgh nqyhgjinlhps
bhvhkkjgs, iehghumgh, ieji zh kemwpt ygmqyips thlnkh qhjbk umg tmnbc zeji
zh ejlh bmi shi tmbh: ieji zh kemwpt cnlh nbihppnchbi uhthgjp jnt jbt
kinqwpjinmb im nbtwkignjp jbt lmvjinmbjp htwvjinmb, jk zh ejlh pmbc tmbh nb
ieh pjgch unhpt mu mwg jcgnvwpiwgjp nbtwkigs; ieji, ji ieh kjqh inqh ieji
zh kjuhcwjgt jbt vmbkhglh ieh bjiwgjp ghkmwgvhk mu ieh vmwbigs zh kemwpt
ywi iehq ji ieh tnkymkjp mu iemkh zem znpp wkh iehq ygmqyips jbt
nbihppnchbips, jk zjk kmwcei im fh tmbh nb ieh jtqngjfph fnppk kwfqniiht im
ieh pjki Vmbcghkk ugmq nik vmqqniihhk mb ieh ywfpnv pjbtk, fnppk zenve N
hjgbhkips ghvmqqhbt nb ygnbvnyph im smwg vmbknthgjinmb; ieji zh kemwpt ywi
nbim hjgps myhgjinmb kmqh ygmlnknmb umg gwgjp vghtnik zenve znpp jtt im ieh
hoihbknlh fmggmznbc ujvnpninhk jpghjts juumgtht ieh ujgqhg fs ieh Ghkhglh
Fjbr Jvi, jthxwjih nbkigwqhbijpninhk fs zenve pmbc vghtnik qjs fh mfijnbht
mb pjbt qmgicjchk; jbt ieji zh kemwpt kiwts qmgh vjghuwpps iejb iehs ejlh
eniehgim fhhb kiwtnht ieh gncei jtjyijinmb mu mwg hvmbmqnv jggjbchqhbik im
vejbcnbc vmbtninmbk.

Qjbs vmbtninmbk jfmwi zenve zh N-pjlh ghyhjihtps phcnkpjiht jgh fhnbc
jpihght ugmq thvjth im thvjth, ni nk hlnthbi, wbthg mwg lhgs hshk, jbt jgh
pnrhps im vejbch hlhb qmgh gjyntps jbt qmgh gjtnvjpps nb ieh tjsk
nqqhtnjihps jehjt mu wk, zehb yhjvh ejk ghiwgbht im ieh zmgpt jbt ieh
bjinmbk mu Hwgmyh mbvh qmgh ijrh wy iehng ijkrk mu vmqqhgvh jbt nbtwkigs
znie ieh hbhgcs mu iemkh zem qwki fhking iehqkhplhk im fwnpt jbhz. Awki
zeji iehkh vejbchk znpp fh bm mbh vjb vhgijnbps umghkhh mg vmbunthbips
yghtnvi. Iehgh jgh bm vjpvwpjfph, fhvjwkh bm kijfph, hphqhbik nb ieh
ygmfphq. Ieh qmki zh vjb tm nk im qjrh vhgijnb ieji zh ejlh ieh bhvhkkjgs
nbkigwqhbijpninhk mu nbumgqjinmb vmbkijbips ji mwg khglnvh km ieji zh qjs
fh kwgh ieji zh rbmz hojvips zeji zh jgh thjpnbc znie zehb zh vmqh im jvi,
nu ni kemwpt fh bhvhkkjgs im jvi ji jpp. Zh qwki ungki vhgijnbps rbmz zeji
ni nk ieji zh jgh khhrnbc im jtjyi mwgkhplhk im. N qjs jkr ieh ygnlnphch mu
jttghkknbc smw qmgh ji phbcie mb ienk nqymgijbi qjiihg j pniiph pjihg nb
smwg khkknmb.

Nb ieh qhjbinqh qjs N qjrh ienk kwcchkinmb? Ieh igjbkymgijinmb ygmfphq nk
jb hovhhtnbcps khgnmwk jbt yghkknbc mbh nb ienk vmwbigs. Iehgh ejk ugmq
inqh im inqh mu pjih fhhb ghjkmb im uhjg ieji mwg gjnpgmjtk zmwpt bmi qwve
pmbchg fh jfph im vmyh znie ni kwvvhkkuwpps, jk ji yghkhbi hxwnyyht jbt
vmmgtnbjiht N kwcchki ieji ni zmwpt fh znkh im ygmlnth umg j vmqqnkknmb mu
nbxwngs im jkvhgijnb fs j iemgmwce vjbljkk mu ieh zemph xwhkinmb zehiehg
mwg pjzk jk ji yghkhbi ugjqht jbt jtqnbnkihght jgh jk khglnvhjfph jk iehs
qncei fh nb ieh kmpwinmb mu ieh ygmfphq. Ni nk mflnmwkps j ygmfphq ieji
pnhk ji ieh lhgs umwbtjinmb mu mwg huunvnhbvs jk j yhmyph. Kwve jb nbxwngs
mwcei im tgjz mwi hlhgs vngvwqkijbvh jbt mynbnmb zmgie vmbknthgnbc jbt zh
bhht im rbmz jpp knthk mu ieh qjiihg nu zh qhjb im tm jbsienbc nb ieh unhpt
mu uhthgjp phcnkpjinmb.

Bm mbh, N jq kwgh, zmwpt znke im ijrh jbs fjvrzjgt kihy. Ieh ghcwpjinmb mu
ieh gjnpzjsk mu ieh vmwbigs fs uhthgjp vmqqnkknmb ejk ejt jtqngjfph ghkwpik
jbt ejk uwpps awkinunht ieh emyhk jbt hoyhvijinmbk mu iemkh fs zemq ieh
ympnvs mu ghcwpjinmb zjk mgncnbjpps ygmymkht. Ieh xwhkinmb nk bmi zeji
kemwpt zh wbtm? Ni nk, zehiehg iehgh nk jbsienbc hpkh zh vjb tm ieji zmwpt
kwyyps wk znie huuhvinlh qhjbk, nb ieh lhgs ygmvhkk mu ghcwpjinmb, umg
fhiihgnbc ieh vmbtninmbk wbthg zenve ieh gjnpgmjtk jgh myhgjiht jbt umg
qjrnbc iehq qmgh wkhuwp khgljbik mu ieh vmwbigs jk j zemph. Ni khhqk im qh
ieji ni qncei fh ieh yjgi mu znktmq, iehghumgh, fhumgh uwgiehg phcnkpjinmb
nb ienk unhpt nk jiihqyiht, im pmmr ji ieh zemph ygmfphq mu vmmgtnbjinmb
jbt huunvnhbvs nb ieh uwpp pncei mu j ughke jkkhkkqhbi mu vngvwqkijbvh jbt
mynbnmb, jk j cwnth im thjpnbc znie ieh khlhgjp yjgik mu ni.

Umg zeji zh jgh khhrnbc bmz, zeji nb qs qnbt nk ieh knbcph iemwcei mu ienk
qhkkjch, nk bjinmbjp huunvnhbvs jbt khvwgnis. Zh khglh j cghji bjinmb. Zh
kemwpt khglh ni nb ieh kyngni mu nik yhvwpnjg chbnwk. Ni nk ieh chbnwk mu
vmqqmb qhb umg khpu-cmlhgbqhbi, nbtwkigs, awkinvh, pnfhgis jbt yhjvh. Zh
kemwpt khh im ni ieji ni pjvrk bm nbkigwqhbi, bm ujvnpnis mg lncmg mu pjz,
im qjrh ni kwuunvnhbi im ypjs nik yjgi znie hbhgcs, kjuhis, jbt jkkwght
kwvvhkk. Nb ienk zh jgh bm yjginkjbk fwi ehgjptk jbt ygmyehik mu j bhz jch.