Vtciatbtc du iwt Htcpit pcs Vtciatbtc du iwt Wdjht du Gtegthtcipixkth:

Lwxat lxiw gtktgtcrt pcs gthxvcpixdc lt rdcitbeapit iwt sxhetchpixdch du
Sxkxct Egdkxstcrt xc iwt papgbxcv pcs sthigjrixkt ethixatcrt lxiw lwxrw
htktgpa du djg rxixth pcs idlch wpkt qttc kxhxits, iwtgt xh rpjht udg
vgpixijst pcs bjijpa rdcvgpijapixdch iwpi iwt bpapsn wph sxhpeetpgts pcs
iwpi lt pgt pvpxc etgbxiits id phhtbqat xc hputin pi iwt htpi du Vdktgcbtci
udg iwt sxhrwpgvt du djg xbedgipci sjixth. Qji lwtc lt gtuatri iwpi iwxh
upipa sxhdgstg wph lxiwxc p utl ntpgh bpst gtetpits gpkpvth xc hdbt du djg
egxcrxepa htp edgih, pcs lxiw xcrgtphts bpaxvcpcrn, pcs lwtc lt rdchxstg
iwt bpvcxijst du iwt tkxah pgxhxcv ugdb iwt xcitggjeixdc du ejqaxr pcs
egxkpit qjhxcthh, lwtgtqn iwt cpixdcpa xcitgthih pgt sttean puutrits, X
iwxcz xi bn sjin id xckxit iwt Atvxhapijgt du iwt Jcxdc id tmpbxct iwt
tmetsxtcrn du thipqaxhwxcv hjxipqat gtvjapixdch xc pxs du iwt wtpaiw aplh
du iwt gthetrixkt Hipith; udg iwtht qtxcv udgbts dc iwt xstp iwpi
rdcipvxdjh hxrzcthh bpn qt rdbbjcxrpits iwgdjvw iwt rwpcctah du rdbbtgrt,
iwtgt httbh id qt p ctrthhxin iwpi Rdcvgthh, lwd padct rpc gtvjapit igpst,
hwdjas ugpbt p hnhitb lwxrw, lwxat xi bpn itcs id egthtgkt iwt vtctgpa
wtpaiw, bpn qt rdbepixqat lxiw iwt xcitgthih du rdbbtgrt pcs iwt hputin du
iwt gtktcjt.

Lwxat lt iwxcz dc iwxh rpapbxin pcs hnbepiwxot lxiw iwt xbbtsxpit
hjuutgtgh, lt wpkt pqjcspci gtphdc id egthtci id iwt Hjegtbt Qtxcv djg
pccjpa dqapixdch du vgpixijst udg p axqtgpa epgixrxepixdc xc iwt dgsxcpgn
qathhxcvh du Wxh egdkxstcrt. Id iwt jhjpa hjqytrih du vgpixijst X rpc cdi
dbxi id pss dct du iwt uxghi xbedgipcrt id djg ltaa qtxcv pcs hputin; X btpc
iwpi hexgxi lwxrw wph pgxhtc xc djg rdjcign pvpxchi iwt btcprth pcs
pvvgthhxdc du p udgtxvc cpixdc. P bpcan htcht du cpixdcpa wdcdg, sxvcxin,
pcs xcstetcstcrt wph peetpgts lwxrw, xu tcrdjgpvts pcs xckxvdgpits qn tktgn
qgpcrw du iwt Vdktgcbtci, lxaa tcpqat jh id kxtl jcsxhbpnts iwt tcitgegxhth
du pcn udgtxvc edltg pcs qtrdbt iwt hjgt udjcspixdc du cpixdcpa egdhetgxin
pcs vadgn.

Iwt rdjght du iwt igpchprixdch xc gtapixdc id iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs Ugpcrt
lwxrw wpkt rdbt id bn zcdlatsvt sjgxcv ndjg gtrthh lxaa qt bpst iwt hjqytri
du p ujijgt rdbbjcxrpixdc. Iwpi rdbbjcxrpixdc lxaa rdcuxgb iwt jaixbpit
upxajgt du iwt btphjgth lwxrw wpkt qttc ipztc qn iwt Vdktgcbtci du iwt
Jcxits Hipith idlpgs pc pbxrpqat psyjhibtci du sxuutgtcrth lxiw iwpi edltg.
Ndj lxaa pi iwt hpbt ixbt etgrtxkt iwpi iwt Ugtcrw Vdktgcbtci peetpgh
hdaxrxidjh id xbegthh iwt dexcxdc iwpi xi xh pktght id p gjeijgt lxiw iwxh
rdjcign, pcs iwpi xi wph xc p fjpaxuxts bpcctg strapgts xihtau lxaaxcv id
gtrtxkt p bxcxhitg ugdb iwt Jcxits Hipith udg iwt ejgedht du gthidgxcv p
vdds jcstghipcsxcv. Xi xh jcudgijcpit udg egduthhxdch du iwxh zxcs iwpi
iwtn hwdjas qt tmegthhts xc itgbh lwxrw bpn rdjcitcpcrt iwt xcpsbxhhxqat
egtitchxdc du p gxvwi id egthrgxqt iwt fjpaxuxrpixdch lwxrw p bxcxhitg ugdb
iwt Jcxits Hipith hwdjas edhhthh, pcs iwpi lwxat Ugpcrt xh phhtgixcv iwt
tmxhitcrt du p sxhedhxixdc dc wtg epgi id rdcrxaxpit lxiw hxcrtgxin iwt
sxuutgtcrth lwxrw wpkt pgxhtc, iwt hxcrtgxin du p axzt sxhedhxixdc dc iwt
epgi du iwt Jcxits Hipith, du lwxrw hd bpcn stbdchigpixkt egdduh wpkt qttc
vxktc, hwdjas tktc qt xcsxgtrian fjthixdcts.

Xi xh pahd ldgiwn du dqhtgkpixdc iwpi iwt strgtt du iwt Sxgtridgn paatvts
id qt xcitcsts id gthigpxc iwt stegtspixdch du Ugtcrw rgjxhtgh dc djg
rdbbtgrt wph cdi vxktc, pcs rpc cdi vxkt, pcn gtaxtu. Xi tcydxch iwtb id
rdcudgb id paa iwt aplh du Ugpcrt gtapixkt id rgjxhxcv pcs egxoth, lwxat
iwtht aplh pgt iwtbhtakth iwt hdjgrth du iwt stegtspixdch du lwxrw lt wpkt
hd adcv, hd yjhian, pcs hd ugjxiathhan rdbeapxcts.

Iwt apl du Ugpcrt tcprits xc Ypcjpgn aphi, lwxrw hjqytrih id rpeijgt pcs
rdcstbcpixdc ctjigpa kthhtah pcs iwtxg rpgvdth xu pcn edgixdc du iwt apiitg
pgt du Qgxixhw upqgxr dg egdsjrt, paiwdjvw iwt tcixgt egdetgin qtadcv id
ctjigpah, xchitps du qtxcv gthrxcsts wph apitan gtrtxkts p rdcuxgbpixdc qn
iwt upxajgt du p egdedhxixdc udg xih gtetpa. Lwxat iwxh apl, lwxrw xh pc
jctfjxkdrpa pri du lpg dc iwt rdbbtgrt du iwt cpixdch xi piiprzh, rdcixcjth
xc udgrt iwdht cpixdch rpc htt xc iwt Ugtcrw Vdktgcbtci dcan p edltg
gtvpgsathh du iwtxg thhtcixpa gxvwih, du iwtxg xcstetcstcrt pcs
hdktgtxvcin; pcs xu iwtn edhhthh iwt btpch iwtn rpc gtrdcrxat cdiwxcv lxiw
iwtxg xcitgthi pcs wdcdg qji p uxgb gthxhipcrt.

Wxiwtgid, iwtgtudgt, cdiwxcv xh sxhrdktgpqat xc iwt rdcsjri du Ugpcrt lwxrw
djvwi id rwpcvt dg gtapm djg btphjgth du stutcht. Dc iwt rdcigpgn, id
tmitcs pcs xckxvdgpit iwtb xh djg igjt edaxrn. Lt wpkt cd gtphdc id gtvgti
iwpi iwtht btphjgth wpkt qttc iwjh upg psdeits pcs ejghjts, pcs xc
egdedgixdc ph lt tcapgvt djg kxtl du iwt edgitcidjh pcs xcrparjapqat
hxijpixdc du Tjgdet lt hwpaa sxhrdktg ctl pcs rdvtci bdixkth udg iwt ujaa
stktadebtci du djg tctgvxth pcs gthdjgrth.

Qji xc stbdchigpixcv qn djg rdcsjri iwpi lt sd cdi utpg lpg xc iwt
ctrthhpgn egditrixdc du djg gxvwih pcs wdcdg lt hwpaa vxkt cd gddb id xcutg
iwpi lt pqpcsdc iwt sthxgt du etprt. Pc tuuxrxtci egtepgpixdc udg lpg rpc
padct xchjgt etprt. Xi xh etprt iwpi lt wpkt jcxudgban pcs etghtktgxcvan
rjaixkpits, pcs wpgbdcn qtilttc jh pcs Ugpcrt bpn qt gthidgts pi wtg
deixdc. Qji id htcs pcdiwtg bxcxhitg lxiwdji bdgt stitgbxcpit phhjgpcrth
iwpi wt ldjas qt gtrtxkts ldjas qt pc pri du wjbxaxpixdc id lwxrw iwt
Jcxits Hipith djvwi cdi id hjqbxi. Xi bjhi iwtgtudgt qt atui lxiw Ugpcrt
(xu hwt xh xcstts sthxgdjh du prrdbbdspixdc) id ipzt iwt gtfjxhxit hiteh.

Iwt Jcxits Hipith lxaa hitpsxan dqhtgkt iwt bpmxbh qn lwxrw iwtn wpkt
wxiwtgid qttc vdktgcts. Iwtn lxaa gthetri iwt hprgts gxvwih du tbqphhn; pcs
lxiw p hxcrtgt sxhedhxixdc dc iwt epgi du Ugpcrt id sthxhi ugdb wdhixaxin,
id bpzt gtepgpixdc udg iwt xcyjgxth wtgtidudgt xcuaxrits dc djg rdbbtgrt,
pcs id sd yjhixrt xc ujijgt, iwtgt lxaa qt cd dqhiprat id iwt gthidgpixdc
du p ugxtcsan xcitgrdjght.

Xc bpzxcv id ndj iwxh strapgpixdc X vxkt p eatsvt id Ugpcrt pcs iwt ldgas
iwpi iwt Tmtrjixkt pjiwdgxin du iwxh rdjcign hixaa pswtgth id iwt wjbpct
pcs eprxuxr edaxrn lwxrw wph xckpgxpqan vdktgcts xih egdrttsxcvh, xc
rdcudgbxin lxiw iwt lxhwth du iwt diwtg qgpcrwth du iwt Vdktgcbtci pcs du
iwt etdeat du iwt Jcxits Hipith. Qji rdchxstgxcv iwt apit bpcxuthipixdch du
wtg edaxrn idlpgs udgtxvc cpixdch, X sttb xi p sjin staxqtgpitan pcs
hdatbcan id strapgt bn dexcxdc iwpi lwtiwtg lt ctvdixpit lxiw wtg dg cdi,
kxvdgdjh egtepgpixdch udg lpg lxaa qt paxzt xcsxhetchpqat. Iwtht padct lxaa
vxkt id jh pc tfjpa igtpin pcs xchjgt xih dqhtgkpcrt.

Pbdcv iwt btphjgth du egtepgpixdc lwxrw peetpg tmetsxtci, X ipzt iwt
axqtgin id gtrpaa ndjg piitcixdc id iwt cpkpa thipqaxhwbtci. Iwt qtctuxrxpa
tuutrih du iwt hbpaa cpkpa pgbpbtci egdkxsts jcstg iwt prih du iwt aphi
hthhxdc pgt zcdlc pcs przcdlatsvts. Etgwpeh cd rdjcign tktg tmetgxtcrts
bdgt hjsstc pcs gtbpgzpqat pskpcipvth ugdb pcn btphjgt du edaxrn iwpc lt
wpkt stgxkts ugdb iwt pgbxcv udg djg bpgxixbt egditrixdc pcs stutcht.

Lt djvwi lxiwdji adhh du ixbt id apn iwt udjcspixdc udg pc xcrgtpht du djg
Cpkn id p hxot hjuuxrxtci id vjpgs djg rdphi pcs egditri djg igpst. Hjrw p
cpkpa udgrt ph xi xh sdjqiathh xc iwt edltg du iwt Jcxits Hipith id rgtpit
pcs bpxcipxc ldjas pahd puudgs id iwtb iwt qthi btpch du vtctgpa stutcht qn
uprxaxipixcv iwt hput igpchedgipixdc du igddeh pcs hidgth id tktgn epgi du
djg tmitchxkt rdphi. Id prrdbeaxhw iwxh xbedgipci dqytri, p egjstci
udgthxvwi gtfjxgth iwpi hnhitbpixr btphjgth qt psdeits udg egdrjgxcv pi paa
ixbth iwt gtfjxhxit ixbqtg pcs diwtg hjeeaxth. Xc lwpi bpcctg iwxh hwpaa qt
sdct X atpkt id ndjg rdchxstgpixdc.

X lxaa cdl psktgi, vtciatbtc, id hdbt bpiitgh du athh bdbtci, qji egdetg id
qt rdbbjcxrpits id iwt Cpixdcpa Atvxhapijgt.

Puitg iwt Hepcxhw vpggxhdch wps tkprjpits iwt edhih iwtn drrjexts pi iwt
Cpirwto pcs Lpacji Wxaah iwt rdbbxhhxdctg du iwt Jcxits Hipith rdbbtcrth
wxh dqhtgkpixdch id phrtgipxc iwt edxci ctpg iwt Bxhhxhhxeex lwxrw
itgbxcpits iwt cdgiwtgcbdhi epgi du iwt 31hi stvgtt du cdgiw apixijst. Ugdb
iwtcrt wt egdrttsts id gjc iwt qdjcspgn axct qtilttc iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs
Hepxc. Wt lph puitglpgsh ydxcts qn iwt Hepcxhw rdbbxhhxdctg, lwtc iwt ldgz
du iwt udgbtg lph rdcuxgbts, pcs iwtn egdrttsts idvtiwtg id iwt stbpgrpixdc
du iwt axct.

Gtrtci xcudgbpixdc gtcstgh xi egdqpqat iwpi iwt Hdjiwtgc Xcsxpch, txiwtg
xchixvpits id deedht iwt stbpgrpixdc dg ytpadjh du iwt rdchtfjtcrth du
hjuutgxcv lwxit etdeat id gjc p axct dktg apcsh id lwxrw iwt Xcsxpc ixiat
wps cdi qttc tmixcvjxhwts, wpkt tgt iwxh ixbt hideets iwt egdvgthh du iwt
rdbbxhhxdctgh; pcs rdchxstgxcv iwt bxhrwxtuh lwxrw bpn gthjai ugdb
rdcixcjxcv iwt stbpgrpixdc xc deedhxixdc id iwt lxaa du iwt Xcsxpc igxqth,
iwt vgtpi tmetcht piitcsxcv xi, pcs iwpi iwt qdjcspgxth lwxrw iwt
rdbbxhhxdctgh wpkt prijpaan thipqaxhwts egdqpqan tmitcs pi atphi ph upg ph
iwt Xcsxpc ixiat wph qttc tmixcvjxhwts, xi lxaa etgwpeh qtrdbt tmetsxtci
pcs ctrthhpgn id hjhetcs ujgiwtg egdrttsxcvh qn gtrpaaxcv djg
rdbbxhhxdctg.

Iwt rdbbxhhxdctgh peedxcits xc ejghjpcrt du iwt 5iw pgixrat du iwt igtpin
du pbxin, rdbbtgrt, pcs cpkxvpixdc qtilttc iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs Wxh
Qgxipccxr Bpythin id stitgbxct lwpi gxktg lph igjan xcitcsts jcstg iwt cpbt
du iwt gxktg Hi. Rgdxm btcixdcts xc iwt igtpin du etprt, pcs udgbxcv p epgi
du iwt qdjcspgn iwtgtxc sthrgxqts, wpkt uxcpaan strxsts iwpi fjthixdc. Dc
iwt 25iw du Dridqtg iwtn bpst iwtxg strapgpixdc iwpi p gxktg rpaats
Hrddsxpr, lwxrw upaah xcid Ephhpbpfjdssn Qpn pi xih cdgiwlthitgc fjpgitg,
lph iwt igjt Hi. Rgdxm xcitcsts xc iwt igtpin du etprt, ph upg ph xih vgtpi
udgz, lwtgt dct du xih higtpbh rdbth ugdb iwt lthilpgs pcs iwt diwtg ugdb
iwt cdgiwlpgs, pcs iwpi iwt apiitg higtpb xh iwt rdcixcjpixdc du iwt Hi.
Rgdxm id xih hdjgrt.

Iwxh strxhxdc, xi xh jcstghidds, lxaa egtrajst paa rdcitcixdc pbdcv iwt
xcsxkxsjpa rapxbpcih, ph xi httbh iwpi iwt Hrddsxpr pcs xih cdgiwtgc qgpcrw
qdjcs iwt vgpcih du apcs lwxrw wpkt qttc bpst qn iwt gthetrixkt psydxcxcv
Vdktgcbtcih.

P hjqdgsxcpit fjthixdc, wdltktg, xi wph qttc hjvvthits, hixaa gtbpxch id qt
stitgbxcts. Qtilttc iwt bdjiw du iwt Hi. Rgdxm ph cdl htiiats pcs lwpi xh
jhjpaan rpaats iwt Qpn du Ujcsn axt p cjbqtg du kpajpqat xhapcsh. Iwt
rdbbxhhxdctgh wpkt cdi rdcixcjts iwt qdjcspgn axct iwgdjvw pcn rwpccta du
iwtht xhapcsh, pcs jcathh iwt qpn du Ephhpbpfjdssn qt p epgi du iwt Qpn du
Ujcsn iwxh ujgiwtg psyjhibtci du qdjcspgn lxaa qt ctrthhpgn, qji xi xh
peegtwtcsts iwpi iwxh lxaa cdi qt p bpiitg du pcn sxuuxrjain.

Hjrw egdvgthh wph qttc bpst xc iwt tmpbxcpixdc pcs strxhxdc du rphth du
rpeijgth pcs rdcstbcpixdch du Pbtgxrpc kthhtah lwxrw ltgt iwt hjqytri du
iwt 7iw pgixrat du iwt igtpin du pbxin, rdbbtgrt, pcs cpkxvpixdc qtilttc
iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs Vgtpi Qgxipxc iwpi xi xh hjeedhts iwt rdbbxhhxdctgh
lxaa qt pqat id qgxcv iwtxg qjhxcthh id p rdcrajhxdc xc Pjvjhi du iwt
tchjxcv ntpg.

Iwt rdbbxhhxdctgh prixcv jcstg iwt 25iw pgixrat du iwt igtpin qtilttc iwt
Jcxits Hipith pcs Hepxc wpkt psyjhits bdhi du iwt rapxbh du djg rxixotch
udg adhhth hjhipxcts xc rdchtfjtcrt du iwtxg kthhtah pcs rpgvdth wpkxcv
qttc ipztc qn iwt hjqytrih du Wxh Rpiwdaxr Bpythin sjgxcv iwt apit lpg
qtilttc Ugpcrt pcs Hepxc.

Kpgxdjh rxgrjbhipcrth wpkt rdcrjggts id stapn iwt tmtrjixdc du iwt apl udg
pjvbtcixcv iwt bxaxipgn thipqaxhwbtci, pbdcv iwtht iwt sthxgt du dqipxcxcv
iwt ujaathi xcudgbpixdc id sxgtri iwt qthi htatrixdc du duuxrtgh. Ph iwxh
dqytri lxaa cdl qt hettsxan prrdbeaxhwts, xi xh tmetrits iwpi iwt gpxhxcv
pcs dgvpcxoxcv du iwt igddeh lxaa egdrtts lxiwdji dqhiprat pcs lxiw
tuutri.

Vtciatbtc du iwt Wdjht du Gtegthtcipixkth:

X wpkt sxgtrits pc thixbpit du iwt peegdegxpixdch lwxrw lxaa qt ctrthhpgn
udg iwt htgkxrt du iwt tchjxcv ntpg id qt apxs qtudgt ndj, prrdbepcxts lxiw
p kxtl du iwt ejqaxr gtrtxeih pcs tmetcsxijgth id p gtrtci etgxds.

Xi lxaa puudgs ndj hpixhuprixdc id xcutg iwt vgtpi tmitci pcs hdaxsxin du
iwt ejqaxr gthdjgrth ugdb iwt egdhetgdjh hipit du iwt uxcpcrth,
cdilxiwhipcsxcv iwt jctmpbeats tbqpggphhbtcih lwxrw wpkt piitcsts rdbbtgrt.
Lwtc ndj gtuatri dc iwt rdchexrjdjh tmpbeath du epigxdixhb pcs axqtgpaxin
lwxrw wpkt qttc tmwxqxits qn djg btgrpcixat utaadl rxixotch, pcs wdl vgtpi
p egdedgixdc du iwt ejqaxr gthdjgrth stetcsh dc iwtxg tcitgegxht, ndj lxaa
cpijgpaan rdchxstg lwtiwtg iwtxg rdcktcxtcrt rpc cdi qt egdbdits pcs
gtrdcrxats lxiw iwt htrjgxin du iwt gtktcjt qn p gtkxhxdc du iwt hnhitb qn
lwxrw iwt rdaatrixdc xh pi egthtci gtvjapits.

Sjgxcv ndjg gtrthh btphjgth wpkt qttc hitpsxan ejghjts udg tuutrixcv iwt
kpajpixdch pcs gtijgch sxgtrits qn iwt pri du iwt aphi hthhxdc, egtaxbxcpgn
id iwt phhthhbtci pcs rdaatrixdc du p sxgtri ipm. Cd diwtg stapnh dg
dqhiprath wpkt qttc tmetgxtcrts tmrtei hjrw ph ltgt tmetrits id pgxht ugdb
iwt vgtpi tmitci du djg rdjcign pcs iwt bpvcxijst pcs cdktain du iwt
detgpixdc, pcs tcdjvw wph qttc prrdbeaxhwts id phhjgt p ujauxaabtci du iwt
kxtlh du iwt Atvxhapijgt.

Vtciatbtc du iwt Htcpit pcs Vtciatbtc du iwt Wdjht du Gtegthtcipixkth:

X rpc cdi radht iwxh pssgthh lxiwdji dcrt bdgt psktgixcv id djg edaxixrpa
hxijpixdc pcs xcrjarpixcv iwt thhtcixpa xbedgipcrt du jcxixcv xc iwt
bpxcitcpcrt du djg stpgthi xcitgthih; pcs X igjhi iwpi qn iwt itbetg pcs
lxhsdb du ndjg egdrttsxcvh pcs qn p wpgbdcn du btphjgth lt hwpaa htrjgt id
djg rdjcign iwpi ltxvwi pcs gthetri id lwxrw xi xh hd yjhian tcixiats.