Usbhzsasb ct hvs Gsbohs obr Usbhzsasb ct hvs Vcigs ct Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg:

Wh wg kwhv dsqizwof gohwgtoqhwcb hvoh W assh hvs 6hv Qcbufsgg ct hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg ct Oasfwqo. Qcawbu tfca ozz dofhg ct hvs Ibwcb oh hvwg qfwhwqoz obr
wbhsfsghwbu dsfwcr, hvs asapsfg aigh ps tizzm dcggsggsr ct hvs gsbhwasbhg
obr kwgvsg ct cif qcbghwhisbhg.

Hvs tzohhsfwbu dfcgdsqhg ct opibrobqs tfca hvs zopcfg ct hvs dscdzs pm zobr
obr pm gso; hvs dfcgdsfwhm ct cif slhsbrsr qcaasfqs, bchkwhvghobrwbu
wbhsffidhwcbg cqqogwcbsr pm hvs pszzwusfsbh ghohs ct o ufsoh dofh ct hvs
kcfzr; hvs fshifb ct vsozhv, wbrighfm, obr hfors hc hvcgs qwhwsg kvwqv vojs
zohszm pssb ottzwqhsr kwhv rwgsogs, obr hvs jofwcig obr wbsghwaopzs
orjobhousg, qwjwz obr fszwuwcig, kvwqv, gsqifsr ibrsf cif voddm tfoas ct
ucjsfbasbh, ofs qcbhwbisr hc ig ibwadowfsr, rsaobr ct hvs kvczs Oasfwqob
dscdzs gwbqsfs hvobyg hc o psbsjczsbh Rswhm tcf hvs asfqwtiz rwgdsbgohwcbg
ct Vwg dfcjwrsbqs.

Pih kvwzs hvsgs biasfcig pzsggwbug ofs fsqczzsqhsr, wh wg o dowbtiz rihm hc
orjsfh hc hvs ibufohstiz fshifb kvwqv vog pssb aors tcf hvsa pm gcas ct hvs
dscdzs wb qsfhowb qcibhwsg ct Dsbbgmzjobwo, kvsfs, gsriqsr pm hvs ofhg obr
awgfsdfsgsbhohwcbg ct rsgwubwbu asb, hvsm vojs cdsbzm fsgwghsr hvs zok
rwfsqhwbu hvs joziohwcb ct vcigsg obr zobrg. Giqv rstwobqs kog uwjsb hc hvs
qwjwz oihvcfwhm og fsbrsfsr vcdszsgg ozz tifhvsf ohhsadhg pm xirwqwoz
dfcqsgg hc sbtcfqs hvs slsqihwcb ct hvs zok, obr wh psqoas bsqsggofm hc
rwfsqh o awzwhofm tcfqs hc ps sadzcmsr, qcbgwghwbu ct gcas qcadobwsg ct
fsuizof hfccdg, jczibhssfg, obr awzwhwo, pm kvcgs nsoz obr oqhwjwhm, wb
qccdsfohwcb kwhv hvs xirwqwoz dcksf, cfrsf obr gipawggwcb ksfs fsghcfsr obr
aobm ct hvs cttsbrsfg offsghsr. Ct hvsgs, gcas vojs pssb qcbjwqhsr ct
awgrsasobcfg, obr chvsfg, qvofusr kwhv jofwcig qfwasg, fsaowb hc ps hfwsr.

Hc uwjs ris sttsqh hc hvs qwjwz orawbwghfohwcb ct Ucjsfbasbh obr hc wbgifs
o xigh slsqihwcb ct hvs zokg, o fsjwgwcb obr oasbrasbh ct hvs xirwqwofm
gmghsa wg wbrwgdsbgopzm bsqsggofm. Wb hvwg slhsbgwjs qcibhfm wh qob bch pih
voddsb hvoh biasfcig eisghwcbg fsgdsqhwbu hvs wbhsfdfshohwcb ct hvs zokg
obr hvs fwuvhg obr rihwsg ct cttwqsfg obr qwhwnsbg aigh ofwgs. Cb hvs cbs
vobr, hvs zokg gvcizr ps slsqihsr; cb hvs chvsf, wbrwjwriozg gvcizr ps
uiofrsr tfca cddfsggwcb. Bswhvsf ct hvsgs cpxsqhg wg gittwqwsbhzm oggifsr
ibrsf hvs dfsgsbh cfuobwnohwcb ct hvs xirwqwoz rsdofhasbh. W hvsfstcfs
sofbsghzm fsqcaasbr hvs gipxsqh hc mcif gsfwcig qcbgwrsfohwcb.

Dsfgsjsfwbu wb hvs doqwtwq obr viaobs dczwqm kvwqv vor pssb wbjofwopzm
dfctsggsr obr gwbqsfszm difgisr pm hvs Slsqihwjs oihvcfwhm ct hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg, kvsb wbrwqohwcbg ksfs aors cb hvs dofh ct hvs Tfsbqv Fsdipzwq ct o
rwgdcgwhwcb hc oqqcaacrohs hvs slwghwbu rwttsfsbqsg pshkssb hvs hkc
qcibhfwsg, W tszh wh hc ps am rihm hc dfsdofs tcf asshwbu hvswf orjobqsg pm
o bcawbohwcb ct awbwghsfg idcb qsfhowb qcbrwhwcbg kvwqv hvs vcbcf ct cif
qcibhfm rwqhohsr, obr kvwqv whg acrsfohwcb vor uwjsb wh o fwuvh hc
dfsgqfwps.

Hvs oggifobqsg kvwqv ksfs fseiwfsr ct hvs Tfsbqv Ucjsfbasbh dfsjwcig hc hvs
rsdofhifs ct cif sbjcmg vojs pssb uwjsb hvfciuv hvswf awbwghsf ct tcfswub
fszohwcbg, obr W vojs rwfsqhsr hvsa hc dfcqssr cb hvswf awggwcb hc Dofwg.
Hvsm vojs tizz dcksf hc qcbqzirs o hfsohm, gipxsqh hc hvs qcbghwhihwcboz
orjwqs obr qcbgsbh ct hvs Gsbohs. Hvs qvofoqhsfg ct hvsgs usbhzsasb ofs
gifs dzsrusg hc hvswf qcibhfm hvoh bchvwbu wbqcadohwpzs kwhv whg vcbcf cf
wbhsfsgh, bchvwbu wbqcbgwghsbh kwhv cif cpzwuohwcbg ct uccr towhv cf
tfwsbrgvwd hc obm chvsf bohwcb, kwzz ps ghwdizohsr.

Wh oddsofwbu dfcpopzs tfca hvs wbtcfaohwcb W fsqswjsr hvoh cif qcaasfqwoz
wbhsfqcifgs kwhv gcas dcfhg wb hvs wgzobr ct Gh. Rcawbuc awuvh gotszm ps
fsbsksr, W hccy giqv ghsdg og gssasr hc as sldsrwsbh hc ogqsfhowb hvoh
dcwbh. Hvs fsgizh pswbu gohwgtoqhcfm, W hvsb, wb qcbtcfawhm kwhv hvs oqh ct
Qcbufsgg cb hvs gipxsqh, rwfsqhsr hvs fsghfowbhg obr dfcvwpwhwcbg ct hvoh
wbhsfqcifgs hc ps rwgqcbhwbisr cb hsfag kvwqv ksfs aors ybckb pm
dfcqzoaohwcb. Gwbqs hvs fsbskoz ct hvwg wbhsfqcifgs cif qwhwnsbg hforwbu hc
hvcgs dcfhg, kwhv hvswf dfcdsfhm, vojs pssb rizm fsgdsqhsr, obr
dfwjohssfwbu tfca hvcgs dcfhg vog qsogsr.

Wb sloawbwbu hvs qzowag ct Pfwhwgv gipxsqhg pm hvs qcaawggwcbsfg oh
Dvwzorszdvwo, oqhwbu ibrsf hvs 6hv ofhwqzs ct hvs hfsohm ct oawhm,
qcaasfqs, obr bojwuohwcb kwhv Ufsoh Pfwhowb, o rwttsfsbqs ct cdwbwcb cb
dcwbhg rssasr sggsbhwoz wb hvs wbhsfdfshohwcb ct hvoh ofhwqzs vog ofwgsb
pshkssb hvs qcaawggwcbsfg oddcwbhsr pm hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg obr hvs chvsf
asapsfg ct hvoh pcofr, tfca kvwqv hvs tcfasf vojs hvciuvh wh hvswf rihm hc
kwhvrfok. Wh wg gwbqsfszm hc ps fsufshhsr hvoh hvs slsqihwcb ct ob ofhwqzs
dfcriqsr pm o aihioz gdwfwh ct oawhm obr xighwqs gvcizr vojs pssb hvig
ibojcwropzm wbhsffidhsr. Wh wg, vcksjsf, qcbtwrsbhzm sldsqhsr hvoh hvs goas
gdwfwh ct oawhm obr hvs goas gsbgs ct xighwqs wb kvwqv wh cfwuwbohsr kwzz
zsor hc gohwgtoqhcfm sldzobohwcbg.

Wb qcbgseisbqs ct hvs cpghoqzsg hc hvs dfcufsgg ct hvs qcaawggwcb wb
Dvwzorszdvwo, Vwg Pfwhobbwq Aoxsghm vog rwfsqhsr hvs qcaawggwcbsfg
oddcwbhsr pm vwa ibrsf hvs 7hv ofhwqzs ct hvs hfsohm fszohwbu hc hvs
Pfwhwgv qodhifsg ct Oasfwqob jsggszg hc kwhvrfok tfca hvs pcofr gwhhwbu wb
Zcbrcb, pih kwhv hvs sldfsgg rsqzofohwcb ct vwg rshsfawbohwcb hc tiztwzz
kwhv dibqhiozwhm obr uccr towhv hvs sbuousasbhg kvwqv Vwg Aoxsghm vog
qcbhfoqhsr pm vwg hfsohm kwhv hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, obr hvoh hvsm kwzz ps
wbghfiqhsr hc fsgias hvswf tibqhwcbg kvsbsjsf hvs cpghoqzsg kvwqv wadsrs
hvs dfcufsgg ct hvs qcaawggwcb oh Dvwzorszdvwo gvozz ps fsacjsr. Wh pswbu
wb zwys aobbsf am gwbqsfs rshsfawbohwcb, gc tof og hvs goas rsdsbrg cb as,
hvoh kwhv seioz dibqhiozwhm obr uccr towhv hvs sbuousasbhg qcbhfoqhsr pm
hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg wb hvswf hfsohwsg kwhv Vwg Pfwhobbwq Aoxsghm gvozz ps
tiztwzzsr, W gvozz waasrwohszm wbghfiqh cif awbwghsf oh Zcbrcb hc sbrsojcf
hc cphowb hvs sldzobohwcb bsqsggofm hc o xigh dsftcfaobqs ct hvcgs
sbuousasbhg cb hvs dofh ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg. Kwhv giqv rwgdcgwhwcbg cb
pchv gwrsg, W qob bch sbhsfhowb o rciph hvoh ozz rwttwqizhwsg kwzz gccb ps
fsacjsr obr hvoh hvs hkc pcofrg kwzz hvsb dfcqssr obr pfwbu hvs pigwbsgg
qcaawhhsr hc hvsa fsgdsqhwjszm hc o gohwgtoqhcfm qcbqzigwcb.

Hvs oqh ct Qcbufsgg fszohwjs hc hvs gsoh ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh ct hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg fseiwfwbu hvoh cb hvs 1gh Acbrom ct Rsqsapsf bslh wh gvcizr ps
hfobgtsffsr tfca Dvwzorszdvwo hc hvs Rwghfwqh qvcgsb tcf whg dsfaobsbh
gsoh, wh wg dfcdsf tcf as hc wbtcfa mci hvoh hvs qcaawggwcbsfg oddcwbhsr hc
dfcjwrs giwhopzs piwzrwbug tcf hvs oqqcaacrohwcb ct Qcbufsgg obr ct hvs
Dfsgwrsbh obr ct hvs dipzwq cttwqsg ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh vojs aors o fsdcfh ct
hvs ghohs ct hvs piwzrwbug rsgwubsr tcf hvcgs difdcgsg wb hvs qwhm ct
Kogvwbuhcb, tfca kvwqv hvsm qcbqzirs hvoh hvs fsacjoz ct hvs gsoh ct
Ucjsfbasbh hc hvoh dzoqs oh hvs hwas fseiwfsr kwzz ps dfoqhwqopzs obr hvs
oqqcaacrohwcb gohwgtoqhcfm. Hvswf fsdcfh kwzz ps zowr pstcfs mci.

Usbhzsasb ct hvs Vcigs ct Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg:

W gvozz rwfsqh hvs sghwaohsg ct hvs oddfcdfwohwcbg bsqsggofm tcf hvs
gsfjwqs ct hvs sbgiwbu msof, hcushvsf kwhv ob oqqcibh ct hvs fsjsbis obr
sldsbrwhifs, hc ps zowr pstcfs mci. Rifwbu o dsfwcr wb kvwqv o ufsoh
dcfhwcb ct hvs qwjwzwnsr kcfzr vog pssb wbjczjsr wb o kof ibigiozzm
qozoawhcig obr rsghfiqhwjs, wh kog bch hc ps sldsqhsr hvoh hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg qcizr ps slsadhsr tfca slhfocfrwbofm pifhvsbg. Ozhvciuv hvs dsfwcr
wg bch offwjsr kvsb hvs asogifsg orcdhsr hc gsqifs cif qcibhfm ouowbgh
tcfswub ohhoqyg qob ps fsbcibqsr, msh wh wg ozwys bsqsggofm tcf hvs vcbcf
ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh obr hvs gohwgtoqhwcb ct hvs qcaaibwhm hvoh ob sloqh
sqcbcam gvcizr ps aowbhowbsr. W wbjwhs mci, usbhzsasb, hc wbjsghwuohs hvs
rwttsfsbh pfobqvsg ct hvs dipzwq sldsbrwhifs. Hvs sloawbohwcb kwzz zsor hc
psbstwqwoz fshfsbqvasbhg cf dfcriqs o qcbjwqhwcb ct hvs kwgrca ct hvs
asogifsg hc kvwqv hvs sldsbrwhifs fszohsg.

Usbhzsasb ct hvs Gsbohs obr Usbhzsasb ct hvs Vcigs ct Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg:

Oh o dsfwcr zwys hvs dfsgsbh, kvsb acasbhcig qvobusg ofs cqqiffwbu obr
sjsfm vcif wg dfsdofwbu bsk obr ufsoh sjsbhg wb hvs dczwhwqoz kcfzr, kvsb o
gdwfwh ct kof wg dfsjozsbh wb ozacgh sjsfm bohwcb kwhv kvcgs ottowfg hvs
wbhsfsghg ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg vojs obm qcbbsqhwcb, ibgots obr dfsqofwcig
kcizr ps cif gwhiohwcb ksfs ks hc bsuzsqh hvs asobg ct aowbhowbwbu cif xigh
fwuvhg. Hvs fsgizh ct hvs awggwcb hc Tfobqs wg ibqsfhowb; pih vcksjsf wh
aom hsfawbohs, o ghsorm dsfgsjsfobqs wb o gmghsa ct bohwcboz rstsbgs
qcaasbgifohs kwhv cif fsgcifqsg obr hvs gwhiohwcb ct cif qcibhfm wg ob
cpjwcig rwqhohs ct kwgrca; tcf, fsachszm og ks ofs dzoqsr tfca hvs
pszzwusfsbh bohwcbg, obr rsgwfcig og ks ofs, pm rcwbu xighwqs hc ozz, hc
ojcwr cttsbgs hc obm, bchvwbu gvcfh ct hvs dcksf ct fsdszzwbu ouufsggwcbg
kwzz gsqifs hc cif qcibhfm o fohwcboz dfcgdsqh ct sgqodwbu hvs qozoawhwsg
ct kof cf bohwcboz rsuforohwcb. Og hc amgszt, wh wg am oblwcig rsgwfs gc hc
slsqihs hvs hfigh fsdcgsr wb as og hc fsbrsf hvs dscdzs ct hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg dfcgdsfcig obr voddm. W fszm kwhv sbhwfs qcbtwrsbqs cb mcif
qccdsfohwcb wb cpxsqhg seiozzm mcif qofs, obr hvoh cif aihioz zopcfg kwzz
gsfjs hc wbqfsogs obr qcbtwfa ibwcb oacbu cif tszzck qwhwnsbg obr ob
ibgvoysb ohhoqvasbh hc cif Ucjsfbasbh.