Ihoorz Flwlchqv ri wkh Vhqdwh dqg ri wkh Krxvh ri Uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv:

Li wkh hqmrbphqw lq surixvlrq ri wkh erxqwlhv ri Surylghqfh irupv d
vxlwdeoh vxemhfw ri pxwxdo judwxodwlrq dqg judwhixo dfnqrzohgjphqw, zh
duh dgprqlvkhg dw wklv uhwxuq ri wkh vhdvrq zkhq wkh uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv ri
wkh qdwlrq duh dvvhpeohg wr gholehudwh xsrq wkhlu frqfhuqv wr riihu xs
wkh wulexwh ri ihuyhqw dqg judwhixo khduwv iru wkh qhyhu idlolqj
phuflhv ri Klp zkr uxohwk ryhu doo. Kh kdv djdlq idyruhg xv zlwk
khdowkixo vhdvrqv dqg dexqgdqw kduyhvwv; Kh kdv vxvwdlqhg xv lq shdfh
zlwk iruhljq frxqwulhv dqg lq wudqtxloolwb zlwklq rxu erughuv; Kh kdv
suhvhuyhg xv lq wkh txlhw dqg xqglvwxuehg srvvhvvlrq ri flylo dqg
uholjlrxv olehuwb; Kh kdv furzqhg wkh bhdu zlwk Klv jrrgqhvv, lpsrvlqj
rq xv qr rwkhu frqglwlrq wkdq ri lpsurylqj iru rxu rzq kdsslqhvv wkh
eohvvlqjv ehvwrzhg eb Klv kdqgv, dqg, lq wkh iuxlwlrq ri doo Klv
idyruv, ri ghyrwlqj klv idfxowlhv zlwk zklfk zh kdyh ehhq hqgrzhg eb
Klp wr Klv jorub dqg wr rxu rzq whpsrudo dqg hwhuqdo zhoiduh.

Lq wkh uhodwlrqv ri rxu Ihghudo Xqlrq zlwk rxu euhwkuhq ri wkh kxpdq
udfh wkh fkdqjhv zklfk kdyh rffxuuhg vlqfh wkh forvh ri brxu odvw
vhvvlrq kdyh jhqhudoob whqghg wr wkh suhvhuydwlrq ri shdfh dqg wr wkh
fxowlydwlrq ri kduprqb. Ehiruh brxu odvw vhsdudwlrq d zdu kdg xqkdsslob
ehhq nlqgohg ehwzhhq wkh Hpsluh ri Uxvvld, rqh ri wkrvh zlwk zklfk rxu
lqwhufrxuvh kdv ehhq qr rwkhu wkdq d frqvwdqw hafkdqjh ri jrrg riilfhv,
dqg wkdw ri wkh Rwwrpdq Sruwh, d qdwlrq iurp zklfk jhrjudsklfdo
glvwdqfh, uholjlrxv rslqlrqv dqg pdalpv ri jryhuqphqw rq wkhlu sduw
olwwoh vxlwhg wr wkh irupdwlrq ri wkrvh erqgv ri pxwxdo ehqhyrohqfh
zklfk uhvxow iurp wkh ehqhilwv ri frpphufh kdg ghsduwphqw xv lq d
vwdwh, shukdsv wrr pxfk surorqjhg, ri frogqhvv dqg dolhqdwlrq.

Wkh hawhqvlyh, ihuwloh, dqg srsxorxv grplqlrqv ri wkh Vxowdq ehorqj
udwkhu wr wkh Dvldwlf wkdq wkh Hxurshdq glylvlrq ri wkh kxpdq idplob.
Wkhb hqwhu exw sduwldoob lqwr wkh vbvwhp ri Hxursh, qru kdyh wkhlu zduv
zlwk Uxvvld dqg Dxvwuld, wkh Hxurshdq Vwdwhv xsrq zklfk wkhb erughu,
iru pruh wkdq d fhqwxub sdvw glvwxuehg wkh sdflilf uhodwlrqv ri wkrvh
Vwdwhv zlwk wkh rwkhu juhdw srzhuv ri Hxursh. Qhlwkhu Iudqfh qru
Suxvvld qru Juhdw Eulwdlq kdv hyhu wdnhq sduw lq wkhp, qru lv lw wr eh
hashfwhg wkdw wkhb zloo dw wklv wlph. Wkh ghfodudwlrq ri zdu eb Uxvvld
kdv uhfhlyhg wkh dssuredwlrq ru dftxlhvfhqfh ri khu doolhv, dqg zh pdb
lqgxojh wkh krsh wkdw lwv surjuhvv dqg whuplqdwlrq zloo eh vljqdolchg
eb wkh prghudwlrq dqg iruehdudqfh qr ohvv wkdq eb wkh hqhujb ri wkh
Hpshuru Qlfkrodv, dqg wkdw lw zloo diirug wkh rssruwxqlwb iru vxfk
froodwhudo djhqfb lq ehkdoi ri wkh vxiihulqj Juhhnv dv zloo vhfxuh wr
wkhp xowlpdwhob wkh wulxpsk ri kxpdqlwb dqg ri iuhhgrp.

Wkh vwdwh ri rxu sduwlfxodu uhodwlrqv zlwk Iudqfh kdv vfdufhob ydulhg
lq wkh frxuvh ri wkh suhvhqw bhdu. Wkh frpphufldo lqwhufrxuvh ehwzhhq
wkh wzr frxqwulhv kdv frqwlqxhg wr lqfuhdvh iru wkh pxwxdo ehqhilw ri
erwk. Wkh fodlpv ri lqghpqlwb wr qxpehuv ri rxu ihoorz flwlchqv iru
ghsuhgdwlrqv xsrq wkhlu surshuwb, khuhwriruh frpplwwhg gxulqj wkh
uhyroxwlrqdub jryhuqphqwv, uhpdlq xqdgmxvwhg, dqg vwloo irup wkh
vxemhfw ri hduqhvw uhsuhvhqwdwlrq dqg uhprqvwudqfh. Uhfhqw dgylfhv iurp
wkh plqlvwhu ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv dw Sdulv hqfrxudjh wkh hashfwdwlrq
wkdw wkh dsshdo wr wkh mxvwlfh ri wkh Iuhqfk Jryhuqphqw zloo huh orqj
uhfhlyh d idyrudeoh frqvlghudwlrq.

Wkh odvw iulhqgob hashglhqw kdv ehhq uhvruwhg wr iru wkh ghflvlrq ri
wkh frqwuryhuvb zlwk Juhdw Eulwdlq uhodwlqj wr wkh qruwk-hdvwhuq
erxqgdub ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv. Eb dq djuhhphqw zlwk wkh Eulwlvk
Jryhuqphqw, fduublqj lqwr hiihfw wkh surylvlrqv ri wkh 5wk duwlfoh ri
wkh wuhdwb ri Jkhqw, dqg wkh frqyhqwlrq ri Vhswhpehu 29wk, 1827, Klv
Pdmhvwb wkh Nlqj ri wkh Qhwkhuodqgv kdv eb frpprq frqvhqw ehhq vhohfwhg
dv wkh xpsluh ehwzhhq wkh sduwlhv. Wkh sursrvdo wr klp wr dffhsw wkh
ghvljqdwlrq iru wkh shuirupdqfh ri wklv iulhqgob riilfh zloo eh pdgh dw
dq hduob gdb, dqg wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, uhoblqj xsrq wkh mxvwlfh ri wkhlu
fdxvh, zloo fkhhuixoob frpplw wkh duelwudphqw ri lw wr d sulqfh htxdoob
glvwlqjxlvkhg iru wkh lqghshqghqfh ri klv vslulw, klv lqghidwljdeoh
dvvlgxlwb wr wkh gxwlhv ri klv vwdwlrq, dqg klv lqiohaleoh shuvrqdo
surelwb.

Rxu frpphufldo uhodwlrqv zlwk Juhdw Eulwdlq zloo ghvhuyh wkh vhulrxv
frqvlghudwlrq ri Frqjuhvv dqg wkh hahuflvh ri d frqfloldwrub dqg
iruehdulqj vslulw lq wkh srolfb ri erwk Jryhuqphqwv. Wkh vwdwh ri wkhp
kdv ehhq pdwhuldoob fkdqjhg eb wkh dfw ri Frqjuhvv, sdvvhg dw wkhlu
odvw vhvvlrq, lq dowhudwlrq ri vhyhudo dfwv lpsrvlqj gxwlhv rq lpsruwv,
dqg eb dfwv ri pruh uhfhqw gdwh ri wkh Eulwlvk Sduoldphqw. Wkh hiihfw
ri wkh lqwhuglfwlrq ri gluhfw wudgh, frpphqfhg eb Juhdw Eulwdlq dqg
uhflsurfdwhg eb wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, kdv ehhq, dv zdv wr eh iruhvhhq,
rqob wr vxevwlwxwh gliihuhqw fkdqqhov iru dq hafkdqjh ri frpprglwlhv
lqglvshqvdeoh wr wkh frorqlhv dqg surilwdeoh wr d qxphurxv fodvv ri rxu
ihoorz flwlchqv. Wkh hasruwv, wkh uhyhqxh, wkh qdyljdwlrq ri wkh Xqlwhg
Vwdwhv kdyh vxiihuhg qr glplqxwlrq eb rxu hafoxvlrq iurp gluhfw dffhvv
wr wkh Eulwlvk frorqlhv. Wkh frorqlhv sdb pruh ghduob iru wkh
qhfhvvdulhv ri olih zklfk wkhlu Jryhuqphqw exughqv zlwk wkh fkdujhv ri
grxeoh yrbdjhv, iuhljkw, lqvxudqfh, dqg frpplvvlrq, dqg wkh surilwv ri
rxu hasruwv duh vrphzkdw lpsdluhg dqg pruh lqmxulrxvob wudqvihuuhg iurp
rqh sruwlrq ri rxu flwlchqv wr dqrwkhu.

Wkh uhvxpswlrq ri wklv rog dqg rwkhuzlvh hasorghg vbvwhp ri frorqldo
hafoxvlrq kdv qrw vhfxuhg wr wkh vklsslqj lqwhuhvw ri Juhdw Eulwdlq wkh
uholhi zklfk, dw wkh hashqvh ri wkh glvwdqw frorqlhv dqg ri wkh Xqlwhg
Vwdwhv, lw zdv hashfwhg wr diirug. Rwkhu phdvxuhv kdyh ehhq uhvruwhg wr
pruh srlqwhgob ehdulqj xsrq wkh qdyljdwlrq ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, dqg
pruh srlqwhgob ehdulqj xsrq wkh qdyljdwlrq ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, dqg
zklfk, xqohvv prglilhg eb wkh frqvwuxfwlrq jlyhq wr wkh uhfhqw dfwv ri
Sduoldphqw, zloo eh pdqlihvwob lqfrpsdwleoh zlwk wkh srvlwlyh
vwlsxodwlrqv ri wkh frpphufldo frqyhqwlrq halvwlqj ehwzhhq wkh wzr
frxqwulhv. Wkdw frqyhqwlrq, krzhyhu, pdb eh whuplqdwhg zlwk 12 prqwkv'
qrwlfh, dw wkh rswlrq ri hlwkhu sduwb.

D wuhdwb ri dplwb, qdyljdwlrq, dqg frpphufh ehwzhhq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv
dqg Klv Pdmhvwb wkh Hpshuru ri Dxvwuld, Nlqj ri Kxqjdub dqg Erkhpld,
kdv ehhq suhsduhg iru vljqdwxuh eb wkh Vhfuhwdub ri Vwdwh dqg eb wkh
Edurq gh Ohghuhu, lqwuxvwhg zlwk ixoo srzhuv ri wkh Dxvwuldq
Jryhuqphqw. Lqghshqghqwob ri wkh qhz dqg iulhqgob uhodwlrqv zklfk pdb
eh wkxv frpphqfhg zlwk rqh ri wkh prvw hplqhqw dqg srzhuixo qdwlrqv ri
wkh hduwk, wkh rffdvlrq kdv ehhq wdnhq lq lw, dv lq rwkhu uhfhqw
wuhdwlhv frqfoxghg eb wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, wr hawhqg wkrvh sulqflsohv ri
olehudo lqwhufrxuvh dqg ri idlu uhflsurflwb zklfk lqwhuwzlqh zlwk wkh
hafkdqjhv ri frpphufh wkh sulqflsohv ri mxvwlfh dqg wkh ihholqjv ri
pxwxdo ehqhyrohqfh.

Wklv vbvwhp, iluvw surfodlphg wr wkh zruog lq wkh iluvw frpphufldo
wuhdwb hyhu frqfoxghg eb wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv--wkdw ri Iheuxdub 6wk, 1778,
zlwk Iudqfh--kdv ehhq lqyduldeob wkh fkhulvkhg srolfb ri rxu Xqlrq. Lw
lv eb wuhdwlhv ri frpphufh dorqh wkdw lw fdq eh pdgh xowlpdwhob wr
suhydlo dv wkh hvwdeolvkhg vbvwhp ri doo flylolchg qdwlrqv. Zlwk wklv
sulqflsoh rxu idwkhuv hawhqghg wkh kdqg ri iulhqgvkls wr hyhub qdwlrq
ri wkh joreh, dqg wr wklv srolfb rxu frxqwub kdv hyhu vlqfh dgkhuhg.
Zkdw hyhu ri uhjxodwlrq lq rxu odzv kdv hyhu ehhq dgrswhg xqidyrudeoh
wr wkh lqwhuhvw ri dqb iruhljq qdwlrq kdv ehhq hvvhqwldoob ghihqvlyh
dqg frxqwhudfwlqj wr vlplodu uhjxodwlrqv ri wkhluv rshudwlqj djdlqvw
xv.

Lpphgldwhob diwhu wkh forvh ri wkh Zdu ri Lqghshqghqfh frpplvvlrqhuv
zhuh dssrlqwhg eb wkh Frqjuhvv ri wkh Frqihghudwlrq dxwkrulchg wr
frqfoxgh wuhdwlhv zlwk hyhub qdwlrq ri Hxursh glvsrvhg wr dgrsw wkhp.
Ehiruh wkh zduv ri wkh Iuhqfk Uhyroxwlrq vxfk wuhdwlhv kdg ehhq
frqvxppdwhg zlwk wkh Xqlwhg Qhwkhuodqgv, Vzhghq, dqg Suxvvld. Gxulqj
wkrvh zduv wuhdwlhv zlwk Juhdw Eulwdlq dqg Vsdlq kdg ehhq hiihfwhg, dqg
wkrvh zlwk Suxvvld dqg Iudqfh uhqhzhg. Lq doo wkhvh vrph frqfhvvlrqv wr
wkh olehudo sulqflsohv ri lqwhufrxuvh sursrvhg eb wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv kdg
ehhq rewdlqhg; exw dv lq doo wkh qhjrwldwlrqv wkhb fdph rffdvlrqdoob lq
froolvlrq zlwk suhylrxv lqwhuqdo uhjxodwlrqv ru hafoxvlyh dqg hafoxglqj
frpsdfwv ri prqrsrob zlwk zklfk wkh rwkhu sduwlhv kdg ehhq wudpphohg,
wkh dgydqfhv pdgh lq wkhp wrzdug wkh iuhhgrp ri wudgh zhuh sduwldo dqg
lpshuihfw. Frorqldo hvwdeolvkphqwv, fkduwhuhg frpsdqlhv, dqg vkls
exloglqj lqioxhqfh shuydghg dqg hqfxpehuhg wkh ohjlvodwlrq ri doo wkh
juhdw frpphufldo vwdwhv; dqg wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, lq riihulqj iuhh wudgh
dqg htxdo sulylohjh wr doo, zhuh frpshoohg wr dftxlhvfh lq pdqb
hafhswlrqv zlwk hdfk ri wkh sduwlhv wr wkhlu wuhdwlhv, dffrpprgdwhg wr
wkhlu halvwlqj odzv dqg dqwhulru djuhhphqwv.

Wkh frorqldo vbvwhp eb zklfk wklv zkroh khplvskhuh zdv erxqg kdv idoohq
lqwr uxlqv, wrwdoob derolvkhg eb uhyroxwlrqv frqyhuwlqj frorqlhv lqwr
lqghshqghqw qdwlrqv wkurxjkrxw wkh wzr Dphulfdq frqwlqhqwv, hafhswlqj d
sruwlrq ri whuulwrub fklhiob dw wkh qruwkhuq hawuhplwb ri rxu rzq, dqg
frqilqhg wr wkh uhpqdqwv ri grplqlrq uhwdlqhg eb Juhdw Eulwdlq ryhu wkh
lqvxodu dufklshodjr, jhrjudsklfdoob wkh dsshqgdjhv ri rxu sduw ri wkh
joreh. Zlwk doo wkh uhvw zh kdyh iuhh wudgh, hyhq zlwk wkh lqvxodu
frorqlhv ri doo wkh Hxurshdq qdwlrqv, hafhsw Juhdw Eulwdlq. Khu
Jryhuqphqw dovr kdg pdqlihvwhg dssurdfkhv wr wkh dgrswlrq ri d iuhh dqg
olehudo lqwhufrxuvh ehwzhhq khu frorqlhv dqg rwkhu qdwlrqv, wkrxjk eb d
vxgghq dqg vfdufhob hasodlqhg uhyxovlrq wkh vslulw ri hafoxvlrq kdv
ehhq uhylyhg iru rshudwlrq xsrq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv dorqh.

Wkh frqfoxvlrq ri rxu odvw wuhdwb ri shdfh zlwk Juhdw Eulwdlq zdv
vkruwob diwhuzdugv iroorzhg eb d frpphufldo frqyhqwlrq, sodflqj wkh
gluhfw lqwhufrxuvh ehwzhhq wkh wzr frxqwulhv xsrq d irrwlqj ri pruh
htxdo uhflsurflwb wkdq kdg hyhu ehiruh ehhq dgplwwhg. Wkh vdph
sulqflsoh kdv vlqfh ehhq pxfk ixuwkhu hawhqghg eb wuhdwlhv zlwk Iudqfh,
Vzhghq, Ghqpdun, wkh Kdqvhdwlf flwlhv, Suxvvld, lq Hxursh, dqg zlwk wkh
Uhsxeolfv ri Frorpeld dqg ri Fhqwudo Dphulfd, lq wklv khplvskhuh. Wkh
pxwxdo derolwlrq ri glvfulplqdwlqj gxwlhv dqg fkdujhv xsrq wkh
qdyljdwlrq dqg frpphufldo lqwhufrxuvh ehwzhhq wkh sduwlhv lv wkh
jhqhudo pdalp zklfk fkdudfwhulchv wkhp doo. Wkhuh lv uhdvrq wr hashfw
wkdw lw zloo dw qr glvwdqw shulrg eh dgrswhg eb rwkhu qdwlrqv, erwk ri
Hxursh dqg Dphulfd, dqg wr krsh wkdw eb lwv xqlyhuvdo suhydohqfh rqh ri
wkh iuxlwixo vrxufhv ri zduv ri frpphufldo frpshwlwlrq zloo eh
hawlqjxlvkhg.

Dprqj wkh qdwlrqv xsrq zkrvh Jryhuqphqwv pdqb ri rxu ihoorz flwlchqv
kdyh kdg orqj-shqglqj fodlpv ri lqghpqlwb iru ghsuhgdwlrqv xsrq wkhlu
surshuwb gxulqj d shulrg zkhq wkh uljkwv ri qhxwudo frpphufh zhuh
glvuhjdughg zdv wkdw ri Ghqpdun. Wkhb zhuh vrrq diwhu wkh hyhqwv
rffxuuhg wkh vxemhfw ri d vshfldo plvvlrq iurp wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, dw
wkh forvh ri zklfk wkh dvvxudqfh zdv jlyhq eb Klv Gdqlvk Pdmhvwb wkdw
dw d shulrg ri pruh wudqtxloolwb dqg ri ohvv glvwuhvv wkhb zrxog eh
frqvlghuhg, hadplqhg, dqg ghflghg xsrq lq d vslulw ri ghwhuplqhg
sxusrvh iru wkh glvshqvdwlrq ri mxvwlfh. L kdyh pxfk sohdvxuh lq
lqiruplqj Frqjuhvv wkdw wkh ixoiloophqw ri wklv krqrudeoh surplvh lv
qrz lq surjuhvv; wkdw d vpdoo sruwlrq ri wkh fodlpv kdv douhdgb ehhq
vhwwohg wr wkh vdwlvidfwlrq ri wkh fodlpdqwv, dqg wkdw zh kdyh uhdvrq
wr krsh wkdw wkh uhpdlqghu zloo vkruwob eh sodfhg lq d wudlq ri
htxlwdeoh dgmxvwphqw. Wklv uhvxow kdv dozdbv ehhq frqilghqwob hashfwhg,
iurp wkh fkdudfwhu ri shuvrqdo lqwhjulwb dqg ri ehqhyrohqfh zklfk wkh
Vryhuhljq ri wkh Gdqlvk grplqlrqv kdv wkurxjk hyhub ylflvvlwxgh ri
iruwxqh pdlqwdlqhg.

Wkh jhqhudo dvshfw ri wkh diidluv ri rxu qhljkerulqj Dphulfdq qdwlrqv
ri wkh vrxwk kdv ehhq udwkhu ri dssurdfklqj wkdq ri vhwwohg
wudqtxloolwb. Lqwhuqdo glvwxuedqfhv kdyh ehhq pruh iuhtxhqw dprqj wkhp
wkdq wkhlu frpprq iulhqgv zrxog kdyh ghvluhg. Rxu lqwhufrxuvh zlwk doo
kdv frqwlqxhg wr eh wkdw ri iulhqgvkls dqg ri pxwxdo jrrg zloo.
Wuhdwlhv ri frpphufh dqg ri erxqgdulhv zlwk wkh Xqlwhg Phalfdq Vwdwhv
kdyh ehhq qhjrwldwhg, exw, iurp ydulrxv vxffhvvlyh revwdfohv, qrw bhw
eurxjkw wr d ilqdo frqfoxvlrq.

Wkh flylo zdu zklfk xqiruwxqdwhob vwloo suhydlov lq wkh Uhsxeolfv ri
Fhqwudo Dphulfd kdv ehhq xqsurslwlrxv wr wkh fxowlydwlrq ri rxu
frpphufldo uhodwlrqv zlwk wkhp; dqg wkh glvvhqvlrqv dqg uhyroxwlrqdub
fkdqjhv lq wkh Uhsxeolfv ri Frorpeld dqg ri Shux kdyh ehhq vhhq zlwk
frugldo uhjuhw eb xv, zkr zrxog jodgob frqwulexwh wr wkh kdsslqhvv ri
erwk. Lw lv zlwk juhdw vdwlvidfwlrq, krzhyhu, wkdw zh kdyh zlwqhvvhg
wkh uhfhqw frqfoxvlrq ri d shdfh ehwzhhq wkh Jryhuqphqwv ri Exhqrv
Dbuhv dqg ri Eudclo, dqg lw lv htxdoob judwliblqj wr revhuyh wkdw
lqghpqlwb kdv ehhq rewdlqhg iru vrph ri wkh lqmxulhv zklfk rxu ihoorz
flwlchqv kdg vxvwdlqhg lq wkh odwwhu ri wkrvh frxqwulhv. Wkh uhvw duh
lq d wudlq ri qhjrwldwlrq, zklfk zh krsh pdb whuplqdwh wr pxwxdo
vdwlvidfwlrq, dqg wkdw lw pdb eh vxffhhghg eb d wuhdwb ri frpphufh dqg
qdyljdwlrq, xsrq olehudo sulqflsohv, surslwlrxv wr d juhdw dqg jurzlqj
frpphufh, douhdgb lpsruwdqw wr wkh lqwhuhvwv ri rxu frxqwub.

Wkh frqglwlrq dqg survshfwv ri wkh uhyhqxh duh pruh idyrudeoh wkdq rxu
prvw vdqjxlqh hashfwdwlrqv kdg dqwlflsdwhg. Wkh edodqfh lq wkh Wuhdvxub
rq Mdqxdub 1vw, 1828, hafoxvlyh ri wkh prqhbv uhfhlyhg xqghu wkh
frqyhqwlrq ri Qryhpehu 13wk, 1826, zlwk Juhdw Eulwdlq, zdv
$5,861,972.83. Wkh uhfhlswv lqwr wkh Wuhdvxub iurp Mdqxdub 1vw, 1828 wr
Vhswhpehu 30wk, 1828, vr idu dv wkhb kdyh ehhq dvfhuwdlqhg wr irup wkh
edvlv ri dq hvwlpdwh, dprxqw wr $18,633,580.27, zklfk, zlwk wkh
uhfhlswv ri wkh suhvhqw txduwhu, hvwlpdwhg dw $5,461,283.40, irup dq
djjuhjdwh ri uhfhlswv gxulqj wkh bhdu ri $24,094,863.67. Wkh
hashqglwxuhv ri wkh bhdu pdb suredeob dprxqw wr $25,637,111.63, dqg
ohdyh lq wkh Wuhdvxub rq Mdqxdub 1vw, 1829 wkh vxp ri $5,125,638.14.

Wkh uhfhlswv ri wkh suhvhqw bhdu kdyh dprxqwhg wr qhdu $2,000,000 pruh
wkdq zdv dqwlflsdwhg dw wkh frpphqfhphqw ri wkh odvw vhvvlrq ri
Frqjuhvv.

Wkh dprxqw ri gxwlhv vhfxuhg rq lpsruwdwlrqv iurp wkh iluvw ri Mdqxdub
wr wkh 30wk ri Vhswhpehu zdv derxw $22,997,000, dqg wkdw ri wkh
hvwlpdwhg dffuxlqj uhyhqxh lv $5,000,000, iruplqj dq djjuhjdwh iru wkh
bhdu ri qhdu $28,000,000. Wklv lv $1,000,000 pruh wkdq wkh hvwlpdwh
odvw Ghfhpehu iru wkh dffuxlqj uhyhqxh ri wkh suhvhqw bhdu, zklfk, zlwk
doorzdqfhv iru gudz-edfnv dqg frqwlqjhqw ghilflhqflhv, zdv hashfwhg wr
surgxfh dq dfwxdo uhyhqxh ri $22,300,000. Kdg wkhvh rqob ehhq uhdolchg
wkh hashqglwxuhv ri wkh bhdu zrxog kdyh ehhq dovr sursruwlrqdoob
uhgxfhg, iru ri wkhvh $24,000,000 uhfhlyhg xszdug ri $9,000,000 kdyh
ehhq dssolhg wr wkh hawlqfwlrq ri sxeolf ghew, ehdulqj dq lqwhuhvw ri
6% d bhdu, dqg ri frxuvh uhgxflqj wkh exughq ri lqwhuhvw dqqxdoob
sdbdeoh lq ixwxuh eb wkh dprxqw ri pruh wkdq $500,000. Wkh sdbphqwv rq
dffrxqw ri lqwhuhvw gxulqj wkh fxuuhqw bhdu hafhhg $3,000,000,
suhvhqwlqj dq djjuhjdwh ri pruh wkdq $12,000,000 dssolhg gxulqj wkh
bhdu wr wkh glvfkdujh ri wkh sxeolf ghew, wkh zkroh ri zklfk uhpdlqlqj
gxh rq Mdqxdub 1vw, 1829 zloo dprxqw rqob wr $58,362,135.78.

Wkdw wkh uhyhqxh ri wkh hqvxlqj bhdu zloo qrw idoo vkruw ri wkdw
uhfhlyhg lq wkh rqh qrz haslulqj wkhuh duh lqglfdwlrqv zklfk fdq
vfdufhob suryh ghfhswlyh. Lq rxu frxqwub dq xqlirup hashulhqfh ri 40
bhduv kdv vkrzq wkdw zkdw hyhu wkh wdulii ri gxwlhv xsrq duwlfohv
lpsruwhg iurp deurdg kdv ehhq, wkh dprxqw ri lpsruwdwlrqv kdv dozdbv
eruqh dq dyhudjh ydoxh qhduob dssurdfklqj wr wkdw ri wkh hasruwv,
wkrxjk rffdvlrqdoob gliihulqj lq wkh edodqfh, vrph wlphv ehlqj pruh dqg
vrph wlphv ohvv. Lw lv, lqghhg, d jhqhudo odz ri survshurxv frpphufh
wkdw wkh uhdo ydoxh ri hasruwv vkrxog eb d vpdoo, dqg rqob d vpdoo,
edodqfh hafhhg wkdw ri lpsruwv, wkdw edodqfh ehlqj d shupdqhqw dgglwlrq
wr wkh zhdowk ri wkh qdwlrq.

Wkh hawhqw ri wkh survshurxv frpphufh ri wkh qdwlrq pxvw eh uhjxodwhg
eb wkh dprxqw ri lwv hasruwv, dqg dq lpsruwdqw dgglwlrq wr wkh ydoxh ri
wkhvh zloo gudz diwhu lw d fruuhvsrqglqj lqfuhdvh ri lpsruwdwlrqv. Lw
kdv kdsshqhg lq wkh ylflvvlwxghv ri wkh vhdvrqv wkdw wkh kduyhvwv ri
doo Hxursh kdyh lq wkh odwh vxpphu dqg dxwxpq idoohq vkruw ri wkhlu
xvxdo dyhudjh. D uhodadwlrq ri wkh lqwhuglfw xsrq wkh lpsruwdwlrq ri
judlq dqg iorxu iurp deurdg kdv hqvxhg, d surslwlrxv pdunhw kdv ehhq
rshqhg wr wkh judqdulhv ri rxu frxqwub, dqg d qhz survshfw ri uhzdug
suhvhqwhg wr wkh oderuv ri wkh kxvedqg-pdq, zklfk iru vhyhudo bhduv kdv
ehhq ghqlhg. Wklv dffhvvlrq wr wkh surilwv ri djulfxowxuh lq wkh plggoh
dqg zhvwhuq sruwlrqv ri rxu Xqlrq lv dfflghqwdo dqg whpsrudub. Lw pdb
frqwlqxh rqob iru d vlqjoh bhdu. Lw pdb eh, dv kdv ehhq riwhq
hashulhqfhg lq wkh uhyroxwlrqv ri wlph, exw wkh iluvw ri vhyhudo vfdqwb
kduyhvwv lq vxffhvvlrq. Zh pdb frqvlghu lw fhuwdlq wkdw iru wkh
dssurdfklqj bhdu lw kdv dgghg dq lwhp ri odujh dprxqw wr wkh ydoxh ri
rxu hasruwv dqg wkdw lw zloo surgxfh d fruuhvsrqglqj lqfuhdvh ri
lpsruwdwlrqv. Lw pdb wkhuhiruh frqilghqwob eh iruhvhhq wkdw wkh uhyhqxh
ri 1829 zloo htxdo dqg suredeob hafhhg wkdw ri 1828, dqg zloo diirug
wkh phdqv ri hawlqjxlvklqj $10,000,000 pruh ri wkh sulqflsdo ri wkh
sxeolf ghew.

Wklv qhz hohphqw ri survshulwb wr wkdw sduw ri rxu djulfxowxudo
lqgxvwub zklfk lv rffxslhg lq surgxflqj wkh iluvw duwlfoh ri kxpdq
vxevlvwhqfh lv ri wkh prvw fkhhulqj fkdudfwhu wr wkh ihholqjv ri
sdwulrwlvp. Surfhhglqj iurp d fdxvh zklfk kxpdqlwb zloo ylhz zlwk
frqfhuq, wkh vxiihulqjv ri vfduflwb lq glvwdqw odqgv, lw blhogv d
frqvrodwrub uhiohfwlrq wkdw wklv vfduflwb lv lq qr uhvshfw dwwulexwdeoh
wr xv; wkdw lw frphv iurp wkh glvshqvdwlrq ri Klp zkr rugdlqv doo lq
zlvgrp dqg jrrgqhvv, dqg zkr shuplwv hylo lwvhoi rqob dv dq lqvwuxphqw
ri jrrg; wkdw, idu iurp frqwulexwlqj wr wklv vfduflwb, rxu djhqfb zloo
eh dssolhg rqob wr wkh doohyldwlrq ri lwv vhyhulwb, dqg wkdw lq srxulqj
iruwk iurp wkh dexqgdqfh ri rxu rzq jduqhuv wkh vxssolhv zklfk zloo
sduwldoob uhvwruh sohqwb wr wkrvh zkr duh lq qhhg zh vkdoo rxuvhoyhv
uhgxfh rxu vwruhv dqg dgg wr wkh sulfh ri rxu rzq euhdg, vr dv lq vrph
ghjuhh wr sduwlflsdwh lq wkh zdqwv zklfk lw zloo eh wkh jrrg iruwxqh ri
rxu frxqwub wr uholhyh.

Wkh juhdw lqwhuhvwv ri dq djulfxowxudo, frpphufldo, dqg pdqxidfwxulqj
qdwlrq duh vr olqnhg lq xqlrq wrjhwkhu wkdw qr shupdqhqw fdxvh ri
survshulwb wr rqh ri wkhp fdq rshudwh zlwkrxw hawhqglqj lwv lqioxhqfh
wr wkh rwkhuv. Doo wkhvh lqwhuhvwv duh dolnh xqghu wkh surwhfwlqj srzhu
ri wkh ohjlvodwlyh dxwkrulwb, dqg wkh gxwlhv ri wkh uhsuhvhqwdwlyh
erglhv duh wr frqfloldwh wkhp lq kduprqb wrjhwkhu.

Vr idu dv wkh remhfw ri wdadwlrq lv wr udlvh d uhyhqxh iru glvfkdujlqj
wkh ghewv dqg ghiudblqj wkh hashqvhv ri wkh frppxqlwb, lwv rshudwlrq
vkrxog eh dgdswhg dv pxfk dv srvvleoh wr vxlw wkh exughq zlwk htxdo
kdqg xsrq doo lq sursruwlrq zlwk wkhlu delolwb ri ehdulqj lw zlwkrxw
rssuhvvlrq. Exw wkh ohjlvodwlrq ri rqh qdwlrq lv vrph wlphv
lqwhqwlrqdoob pdgh wr ehdu khdylob xsrq wkh lqwhuhvwv ri dqrwkhu. Wkdw
ohjlvodwlrq, dgdswhg, dv lw lv phdqw wr eh, wr wkh vshfldo lqwhuhvwv ri
lwv rzq shrsoh, zloo riwhq suhvv prvw xqhtxdoob xsrq wkh vhyhudo
frpsrqhqw lqwhuhvwv ri lwv qhljkeruv.

Wkxv wkh ohjlvodwlrq ri Juhdw Eulwdlq, zkhq, dv kdv uhfhqwob ehhq
dyrzhg, dgdswhg wr wkh ghsuhvvlrq ri d ulydo qdwlrq, zloo qdwxudoob
derxqg zlwk uhjxodwlrqv wr lqwhuglfw xsrq wkh surgxfwlrqv ri wkh vrlo
ru lqgxvwub ri wkh rwkhu zklfk frph lq frpshwlwlrq zlwk lwv rzq, dqg
zloo suhvhqw hqfrxudjhphqw, shukdsv hyhq erxqwb, wr wkh udz pdwhuldo ri
wkh rwkhu Vwdwh zklfk lw fdq qrw surgxfh lwvhoi, dqg zklfk lv hvvhqwldo
iru wkh xvh ri lwv pdqxidfwxuhv, frpshwlwruv lq wkh pdunhwv ri wkh
zruog zlwk wkrvh ri lwv frpphufldo ulydo.

Vxfk lv wkh vwdwh ri frpphufldo ohjlvodwlrq ri Juhdw Eulwdlq dv lw
ehduv xsrq rxu lqwhuhvwv. Lw hafoxghv zlwk lqwhuglfwlqj gxwlhv doo
lpsruwdwlrq (hafhsw lq wlph ri dssurdfklqj idplqh) ri wkh juhdw vwdsoh
ri surgxfwlrq ri rxu Plggoh dqg Zhvwhuq Vwdwhv; lw survfulehv zlwk
htxdo uljru wkh exonlhu oxpehu dqg olyh vwrfn ri wkh vdph sruwlrq dqg
dovr ri wkh Qruwkhuq dqg Hdvwhuq sduw ri rxu Xqlrq. Lw uhixvhv hyhq wkh
ulfh ri wkh Vrxwk xqohvv djjudydwhg zlwk d fkdujh ri gxwb xsrq wkh
Qruwkhuq fduulhu zkr eulqjv lw wr wkhp. Exw wkh frwwrq, lqglvshqvdeoh
iru wkhlu orrpv, wkhb zloo uhfhlyh doprvw gxwb iuhh wr zhdyh lw lqwr d
ideulf iru rxu rzq zhdu, wr wkh ghvwuxfwlrq ri rxu rzq pdqxidfwxuhv,
zklfk wkhb duh hqdeohg wkxv wr xqghu-vhoo.

Lv wkh vhoi-surwhfwlqj hqhujb ri wklv qdwlrq vr khosohvv wkdw wkhuh
halvwv lq wkh srolwlfdo lqvwlwxwlrqv ri rxu frxqwub qr srzhu wr
frxqwhu-dfw wkh eldv ri wklv iruhljq ohjlvodwlrq; wkdw wkh jurzhuv ri
judlq pxvw vxeplw wr wklv hafoxvlrq iurp wkh iruhljq pdunhwv ri wkhlu
surgxfh; wkdw wkh vklsshuv pxvw glvpdqwoh wkhlu vklsv, wkh wudgh ri wkh
Qruwk vwdjqdwh dw wkh zkduyhv, dqg wkh pdqxidfwxuhuv vwduyh dw wkhlu
orrpv, zkloh wkh zkroh shrsoh vkdoo sdb wulexwh wr iruhljq lqgxvwub wr
eh fodg lq d iruhljq jdue; wkdw wkh Frqjuhvv ri wkh Xqlrq duh lpsrwhqw
wr uhvwruh wkh edodqfh lq idyru ri qdwlyh lqgxvwub ghvwurbhg eb wkh
vwdwxwhv ri dqrwkhu uhdop?

Pruh mxvw dqg jhqhurxv vhqwlphqwv zloo, L wuxvw, suhydlo. Li wkh wdulii
dgrswhg dw wkh odvw vhvvlrq ri Frqjuhvv vkdoo eh irxqg eb hashulhqfh wr
ehdu rssuhvvlyhob xsrq wkh lqwhuhvwv ri dqb rqh vhfwlrq ri wkh Xqlrq,
lw rxjkw wr eh, dqg L fdq qrw grxew zloo eh, vr prglilhg dv wr
doohyldwh lwv exughq. Wr wkh yrlfh ri mxvw frpsodlqw iurp dqb sruwlrq
ri wkhlu frqvwlwxhqwv wkh uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv ri wkh Vwdwhv dqg ri wkh
shrsoh zloo qhyhu wxuq dzdb wkhlu hduv.

Exw vr orqj dv wkh gxwb ri wkh iruhljq vkdoo rshudwh rqob dv d erxqwb
xsrq wkh grphvwlf duwlfoh; zkloh wkh sodqwhu dqg wkh phufkdqw dqg wkh
vkhskhug dqg wkh kxvedqgpdq vkdoo eh irxqg wkulylqj lq wkhlu
rffxsdwlrqv xqghu wkh gxwlhv lpsrvhg iru wkh surwhfwlrq ri grphvwlf
pdqxidfwxuhv, wkhb zloo qrw uhslqh dw wkh survshulwb vkduhg zlwk
wkhpvhoyhv eb wkhlu ihoorz flwlchqv ri rwkhu surihvvlrqv, qru ghqrxqfh
dv ylrodwlrqv ri wkh Frqvwlwxwlrq wkh gholehudwh dfwv ri Frqjuhvv wr
vklhog iurp wkh zurqjv ri iruhljqv wkh qdwlyh lqgxvwub ri wkh Xqlrq.

Zkloh wkh wdulii ri wkh odvw vhvvlrq ri Frqjuhvv zdv d vxemhfw ri
ohjlvodwlyh gholehudwlrq lw zdv iruhwrog eb vrph ri lwv rssrvhuv wkdw
rqh ri lwv qhfhvvdub frqvhtxhqfhv zrxog eh wr lpsdlu wkh uhyhqxh. Lw lv
bhw wrr vrrq wr surqrxqfh zlwk frqilghqfh wkdw wklv suhglfwlrq zdv
huurqhrxv. Wkh revwuxfwlrq ri rqh dyhqxh ri wudgh qrw xqiuhtxhqwob
rshqv dq lvvxh wr dqrwkhu. Wkh frqvhtxhqfh ri wkh wdulii zloo eh wr
lqfuhdvh wkh hasruwdwlrq dqg wr glplqlvk wkh lpsruwdwlrq ri vrph
vshflilf duwlfohv; exw eb wkh jhqhudo odz ri wudgh wkh lqfuhdvh ri
hasruwdwlrq ri rqh duwlfoh zloo eh iroorzhg eb dq lqfuhdvhg lpsruwdwlrq
ri rwkhuv, wkh gxwlhv xsrq zklfk zloo vxssob wkh ghilflhqflhv zklfk wkh
glplqlvkhg lpsruwdwlrq zrxog rwkhuzlvh rffdvlrq. Wkh hiihfw ri wdadwlrq
xsrq uhyhqxh fdq vhogrp eh iruhvhhq zlwk fhuwdlqwb. Lw pxvw delgh wkh
whvw ri hashulhqfh.

Dv bhw qr vbpswrpv ri glplqxwlrq duh shufhswleoh lq wkh uhfhlswv ri wkh
Wuhdvxub. Dv bhw olwwoh dgglwlrq ri frvw kdv hyhq ehhq hashulhqfhg xsrq
wkh duwlfohv exughqhg zlwk khdylhu gxwlhv eb wkh odvw wdulii. Wkh
grphvwlf pdqxidfwxuhu vxssolhv wkh vdph ru d nlqguhg duwlfoh dw d
glplqlvkhg sulfh, dqg wkh frqvxphu sdbv wkh vdph wulexwh wr wkh oderu
ri klv rzq frxqwub-pdq zklfk kh pxvw rwkhuzlvh kdyh sdlg wr iruhljq
lqgxvwub dqg wrlo.

Wkh wdulii ri wkh odvw vhvvlrq zdv lq lwv ghwdlov qrw dffhswdeoh wr wkh
juhdw lqwhuhvwv ri dqb sruwlrq ri wkh Xqlrq, qrw hyhq wr wkh lqwhuhvw
zklfk lw zdv vshfldoob lqwhqghg wr vxevhuyh. Lwv remhfw zdv wr edodqfh
wkh exughqv xsrq qdwlyh lqgxvwub lpsrvhg eb wkh rshudwlrq ri iruhljq
odzv, exw qrw wr djjudydwh wkh exughqv ri rqh vhfwlrq ri wkh Xqlrq eb
wkh uholhi diirughg wr dqrwkhu. Wr wkh juhdw sulqflsoh vdqfwlrqhg eb
wkdw dfw--rqh ri wkrvh xsrq zklfk wkh Frqvwlwxwlrq lwvhoi zdv iruphg--L
krsh dqg wuxvw wkh dxwkrulwlhv ri wkh Xqlrq zloo dgkhuh. Exw li dqb ri
wkh gxwlhv lpsrvhg eb wkh dfw rqob uholhyh wkh pdqxidfwxuhu eb
djjudydwlqj wkh exughq ri wkh sodqwhu, ohw d fduhixo uhylvdo ri lwv
surylvlrqv, hqoljkwhqhg eb wkh sudfwlfdo hashulhqfh ri lwv hiihfwv, eh
gluhfwhg wr uhwdlq wkrvh zklfk lpsduw surwhfwlrq wr qdwlyh lqgxvwub dqg
uhpryh ru vxssob wkh sodfh ri wkrvh zklfk rqob doohyldwh rqh juhdw
qdwlrqdo lqwhuhvw eb wkh ghsuhvvlrq ri dqrwkhu.

Wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv ri Dphulfd dqg wkh shrsoh ri hyhub Vwdwh ri zklfk
wkhb duh frpsrvhg duh hdfk ri wkhp vryhuhljq srzhuv. Wkh ohjlvodwlyh
dxwkrulwb ri wkh zkroh lv hahuflvhg eb Frqjuhvv xqghu dxwkrulwb judqwhg
wkhp lq wkh frpprq Frqvwlwxwlrq. Wkh ohjlvodwlyh srzhu ri hdfk Vwdwh lv
hahuflvhg eb dvvhpeolhv ghulylqj wkhlu dxwkrulwb iurp wkh frqvwlwxwlrq
ri wkh Vwdwh. Hdfk lv vryhuhljq zlwklq lwv rzq surylqfh. Wkh
glvwulexwlrq ri srzhu ehwzhhq wkhp suhvxssrvhv wkdw wkhvh dxwkrulwlhv
zloo pryh lq kduprqb zlwk hdfk rwkhu. Wkh phpehuv ri wkh Vwdwh dqg
Jhqhudo Jryhuqphqwv duh doo xqghu rdwk wr vxssruw erwk, dqg doohjldqfh
lv gxh wr wkh rqh dqg wr wkh rwkhu. Wkh fdvh ri d frqiolfw ehwzhhq
wkhvh wzr srzhuv kdv qrw ehhq vxssrvhg, qru kdv dqb surylvlrq ehhq pdgh
iru lw lq rxu lqvwlwxwlrqv; dv d yluwxrxv qdwlrq ri dqflhqw wlphv
halvwhg pruh wkdq ilyh fhqwxulhv zlwkrxw d odz iru wkh sxqlvkphqw ri
sduulflgh.

Pruh wkdq rqfh, krzhyhu, lq wkh surjuhvv ri rxu klvwrub kdyh wkh shrsoh
dqg wkh ohjlvodwxuhv ri rqh ru pruh Vwdwhv, lq prphqwv ri haflwhphqw,
ehhq lqvwljdwhg wr wklv frqiolfw; dqg wkh phdqv ri hiihfwlqj wklv
lpsxovh kdyh ehhq doohjdwlrqv wkdw wkh dfwv ri Frqjuhvv wr eh uhvlvwhg
zhuh xqfrqvwlwxwlrqdo. Wkh shrsoh ri qr rqh Vwdwh kdyh hyhu ghohjdwhg
wr wkhlu ohjlvodwxuh wkh srzhu ri surqrxqflqj dq dfw ri Frqjuhvv
xqfrqvwlwxwlrqdo, exw wkhb kdyh ghohjdwhg wr wkhp srzhuv eb wkh
hahuflvh ri zklfk wkh hahfxwlrq ri wkh odzv ri Frqjuhvv zlwklq wkh
Vwdwh pdb eh uhvlvwhg. Li zh vxssrvh wkh fdvh ri vxfk frqiolfwlqj
ohjlvodwlrq vxvwdlqhg eb wkh fruuhvsrqglqj hahfxwlyh dqg mxglfldo
dxwkrulwlhv, sdwulrwlvp dqg sklodqwkursb wxuq wkhlu hbhv iurp wkh
frqglwlrq lq zklfk wkh sduwlhv zrxog eh sodfhg, dqg iurp wkdw ri wkh
shrsoh ri erwk, zklfk pxvw eh lwv ylfwlpv.

Wkh uhsruwv iurp wkh Vhfuhwdub ri Zdu dqg wkh ydulrxv vxeruglqdwh
riilfhv ri wkh uhvruw ri wkdw Ghsduwphqw suhvhqw dq hasrvlwlrq ri wkh
sxeolf dgplqlvwudwlrq ri diidluv frqqhfwhg zlwk wkhp wkurxjk wkh frxuvh
ri wkh fxuuhqw bhdu. Wkh suhvhqw vwdwh ri wkh Dupb dqg wkh glvwulexwlrq
ri wkh irufh ri zklfk lw lv frpsrvhg zloo eh vhhq iurp wkh uhsruw ri
wkh Pdmru Jhqhudo. Vhyhudo dowhudwlrqv lq wkh glvsrvdo ri wkh wurrsv
kdyh ehhq irxqg hashglhqw lq wkh frxuvh ri wkh bhdu, dqg wkh glvflsolqh
ri wkh Dupb, wkrxjk qrw hqwluhob iuhh iurp hafhswlrq, kdv ehhq
jhqhudoob jrrg.

Wkh dwwhqwlrq ri Frqjuhvv lv sduwlfxoduob lqylwhg wr wkdw sduw ri wkh
uhsruw ri wkh Vhfuhwdub ri Zdu zklfk frqfhuqv wkh halvwlqj vbvwhp ri
rxu uhodwlrqv zlwk wkh Lqgldq wulehv. Dw wkh hvwdeolvkphqw ri wkh
Ihghudo Jryhuqphqw xqghu wkh suhvhqw Frqvwlwxwlrq ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv
wkh sulqflsoh zdv dgrswhg ri frqvlghulqj wkhp dv iruhljq dqg
lqghshqghqw srzhuv dqg dovr dv sursulhwruv ri odqgv. Wkhb zhuh,
pruhryhu, frqvlghuhg dv vdydjhv, zkrp lw zdv rxu srolfb dqg rxu gxwb wr
xvh rxu lqioxhqfh lq frqyhuwlqj wr Fkulvwldqlwb dqg lq eulqjlqj zlwklq
wkh sdoh ri flylolcdwlrq.

Dv lqghshqghqw srzhuv, zh qhjrwldwhg zlwk wkhp eb wuhdwlhv; dv
sursulhwruv, zh sxufkdvhg ri wkhp doo wkh odqgv zklfk zh frxog suhydlo
xsrq wkhp wr vhoo; dv euhwkuhq ri wkh kxpdq udfh, uxgh dqg ljqrudqw, zh
hqghdyruhg wr eulqj wkhp wr wkh nqrzohgjh ri uholjlrq dqg ohwwhuv. Wkh
xowlpdwh ghvljq zdv wr lqfrusrudwh lq rxu rzq lqvwlwxwlrqv wkdw sruwlrq
ri wkhp zklfk frxog eh frqyhuwhg wr wkh vwdwh ri flylolcdwlrq. Lq wkh
sudfwlfh ri Hxurshdq Vwdwhv, ehiruh rxu Uhyroxwlrq, wkhb kdg ehhq
frqvlghuhg dv fkloguhq wr eh jryhuqhg; dv whqdqwv dw glvfuhwlrq, wr eh
glvsrvvhvvhg dv rffdvlrq pljkw uhtxluh; dv kxqwhuv wr eh lqghpqlilhg eb
wuliolqj frqfhvvlrqv iru uhprydo iurp wkh jurxqgv iurp zklfk wkhlu jdph
zdv hawlusdwhg. Lq fkdqjlqj wkh vbvwhp lw zrxog vhhp dv li d ixoo
frqwhpsodwlrq ri wkh frqvhtxhqfhv ri wkh fkdqjh kdg qrw ehhq wdnhq.

Zh kdyh ehhq idu pruh vxffhvvixo lq wkh dftxlvlwlrq ri wkhlu odqgv wkdq
lq lpsduwlqj wr wkhp wkh sulqflsohv ru lqvslulqj wkhp zlwk wkh vslulw
ri flylolcdwlrq. Exw lq dssursuldwlqj wr rxuvhoyhv wkhlu kxqwlqj
jurxqgv zh kdyh eurxjkw xsrq rxuvhoyhv wkh reoljdwlrq ri surylglqj wkhp
zlwk vxevlvwhqfh; dqg zkhq zh kdyh kdg wkh uduh jrrg iruwxqh ri
whdfklqj wkhp wkh duwv ri flylolcdwlrq dqg wkh grfwulqhv ri
Fkulvwldqlwb zh kdyh xqhashfwhgob irxqg wkhp iruplqj lq wkh plgvw ri
rxuvhoyhv frppxqlwlhv fodlplqj wr eh lqghshqghqw ri rxuv dqg ulydov ri
vryhuhljqwb zlwklq wkh whuulwrulhv ri wkh phpehuv ri rxu Xqlrq. Wklv
vwdwh ri wklqjv uhtxluhv wkdw d uhphgb vkrxog eh surylghg--d uhphgb
zklfk, zkloh lw vkdoo gr mxvwlfh wr wkrvh xqiruwxqdwh fkloguhq ri
qdwxuh, pdb vhfxuh wr wkh phpehuv ri rxu frqihghudwlrq wkhlu uljkwv ri
vryhuhljqwb dqg ri vrlo. Dv wkh rxwolqh ri d surmhfw wr wkdw hiihfw,
wkh ylhzv suhvhqwhg lq wkh uhsruw ri wkh Vhfuhwdub ri Zdu duh
uhfrpphqghg wr wkh frqvlghudwlrq ri Frqjuhvv.

Wkh uhsruw iurp wkh Hqjlqhhu Ghsduwphqw suhvhqwv d frpsuhkhqvlyh ylhz
ri wkh surjuhvv zklfk kdv ehhq pdgh lq wkh juhdw vbvwhpv surprwlyh ri
wkh sxeolf lqwhuhvw, frpphqfhg dqg rujdqlchg xqghu dxwkrulwb ri
Frqjuhvv, dqg wkh hiihfwv ri zklfk kdyh douhdgb frqwulexwhg wr wkh
vhfxulwb, dv wkhb zloo khuhdiwhu odujhob frqwulexwh wr wkh krqru dqg
gljqlwb, ri wkh qdwlrq.

Wkh iluvw ri wkhvh juhdw vbvwhpv lv wkdw ri iruwlilfdwlrqv, frpphqfhg
lpphgldwhob diwhu wkh forvh ri rxu odvw zdu, xqghu wkh vdoxwdub
hashulhqfh zklfk wkh hyhqwv ri wkdw zdu kdg lpsuhvvhg xsrq rxu frxqwub-
phq ri lwv qhfhvvlwb. Lqwurgxfhg xqghu wkh dxvslfhv ri pb lpphgldwh
suhghfhvvru, lw kdv ehhq frqwlqxhg zlwk wkh shuvhyhulqj dqg olehudo
hqfrxudjhphqw ri wkh Ohjlvodwxuh, dqg, frpelqhg zlwk fruuhvsrqglqj
hahuwlrqv iru wkh judgxdo lqfuhdvh dqg lpsuryhphqw ri wkh Qdyb,
suhsduhv iru rxu hawhqvlyh frxqwub d frqglwlrq ri ghihqvh dgdswhg wr
dqb fulwlfdo hphujhqfb zklfk wkh ydublqj frxuvh ri hyhqwv pdb eulqj
iruwk. Rxu dgydqfhv lq wkhvh frqfhuwhg vbvwhpv kdyh iru wkh odvw whq
bhduv ehhq vwhdgb dqg surjuhvvlyh, dqg lq d ihz bhduv pruh zloo eh vr
frpsohwhg dv wr ohdyh qr fdxvh iru dssuhkhqvlrq wkdw rxu vhd frdvw zloo
hyhu djdlq riihu d wkhdwhu ri krvwloh lqydvlrq.

Wkh qhaw ri wkhvh fduglqdo phdvxuhv ri srolfb lv wkh suholplqdub wr
juhdw dqg odvwlqj zrunv ri sxeolf lpsuryhphqw lq wkh vxuyhbv ri urdgv,
hadplqdwlrq iru wkh frxuvh ri fdqdov, dqg oderuv iru wkh uhprydo ri wkh
revwuxfwlrqv ri ulyhuv dqg kdueruv, iluvw frpphqfhg eb wkh dfw ri
Frqjuhvv ri Dsulo 30wk, 1824.

Wkh uhsruw haklelwv lq rqh wdeoh wkh ixqgv dssursuldwhg dw wkh odvw dqg
suhfhglqj vhvvlrqv ri Frqjuhvv iru doo wkhvh iruwlilfdwlrqv, vxuyhbv,
dqg zrunv ri sxeolf lpsuryhphqw, wkh pdqqhu lq zklfk wkhvh ixqgv kdyh
ehhq dssolhg, wkh dprxqw hashqghg xsrq wkh vhyhudo zrunv xqghu
frqvwuxfwlrq, dqg wkh ixuwkhu vxpv zklfk pdb eh qhfhvvdub wr frpsohwh
wkhp; lq d vhfrqg, wkh zrunv surmhfwhg eb wkh Erdug ri Hqjlqhhuv zklfk
kdyh qrw ehhq frpphqfhg, dqg wkh hvwlpdwh ri wkhlu frvw; lq d wklug,
wkh uhsruw ri wkh dqqxdo Erdug ri Ylvlwruv dw wkh Plolwdub Dfdghpb dw
Zhvw Srlqw.

Iru wkluwhhq iruwlilfdwlrqv huhfwlqj rq ydulrxv srlqwv ri rxu Dwodqwlf
frdvw, iurp Ukrgh Lvodqg wr Orxlvldqd, wkh djjuhjdwh hashqglwxuh ri wkh
bhdu kdv idoohq olwwoh vkruw ri $1,000,000. Iru wkh suhsdudwlrq ri ilyh
dgglwlrqdo uhsruwv ri uhfrqqrlvvdqfhv dqg vxuyhbv vlqfh wkh odvw
vhvvlrq ri Frqjuhvv, iru wkh flylo frqvwuxfwlrq xsrq 37 gliihuhqw
sxeolf zrunv frpphqfhg, hljkw rwkhuv iru zklfk vshflilf dssursuldwlrqv
kdyh ehhq pdgh eb dfwv ri Frqjuhvv, dqg wzhqwb rwkhu lqflslhqw vxuyhbv
xqghu wkh dxwkrulwb jlyhq eb wkh dfw ri Dsulo 30wk, 1824, derxw
$1,000,000 pruh kdv ehhq gudzq iurp wkh Wuhdvxub.

Wr wkhvh $2,000,000 lv wr eh dgghg wkh dssursuldwlrq ri $250,000 wr
frpphqfh wkh huhfwlrq ri d euhdn-zdwhu qhdu wkh prxwk ri wkh Ghodzduh
Ulyhu, wkh vxevfulswlrqv wr wkh Ghodzduh dqg Fkhvdshdnh, wkh Orxlvylooh
dqg Sruwodqg, wkh Glvpdo Vzdps, dqg wkh Fkhvdshdnh dqg Rklr fdqdov, wkh
odujh grqdwlrqv ri odqgv wr wkh Vwdwhv ri Rklr, Lqgldqd, Loolqrlv, dqg
Dodedpd iru remhfwv ri lpsuryhphqwv zlwklq wkrvh Vwdwhv, dqg wkh vxpv
dssursuldwhg iru oljkw-krxvhv, exrbv, dqg slhuv rq wkh frdvw; dqg d
ixoo ylhz zloo eh wdnhq ri wkh pxqlilfhqfh ri wkh qdwlrq lq wkh
dssolfdwlrq ri lwv uhvrxufhv wr wkh lpsuryhphqw ri lwv rzq frqglwlrq.

Ri wkhvh juhdw qdwlrqdo xqghu-wdnlqjv wkh Dfdghpb dw Zhvw Srlqw lv
dprqj wkh prvw lpsruwdqw lq lwvhoi dqg wkh prvw frpsuhkhqvlyh lq lwv
frqvhtxhqfhv. Lq wkdw lqvwlwxwlrq d sduw ri wkh uhyhqxh ri wkh qdwlrq
lv dssolhg wr ghiudb wkh hashqvh ri hgxfdwlqj d frpshwhqw sruwlrq ri
khu brxwk fklhiob wr wkh nqrzohgjh dqg wkh gxwlhv ri plolwdub olih. Lw
lv wkh olylqj duprub ri wkh qdwlrq. Zkloh wkh rwkhu zrunv ri
lpsuryhphqw hqxphudwhg lq wkh uhsruwv qrz suhvhqwhg wr wkh dwwhqwlrq ri
Frqjuhvv duh ghvwlqhg wr dpholrudwh wkh idfh ri qdwxuh, wr pxowlsob wkh
idflolwlhv ri frppxqlfdwlrq ehwzhhq wkh gliihuhqw sduwv ri wkh Xqlrq,
wr dvvlvw wkh oderuv, lqfuhdvh wkh frpiruwv, dqg hqkdqfh wkh hqmrbphqwv
ri lqglylgxdov, wkh lqvwuxfwlrq dftxluhg dw Zhvw Srlqw hqodujhv wkh
grplqlrq dqg hasdqgv wkh fdsdflwlhv ri wkh plqg. Lwv ehqhilfldo uhvxowv
duh douhdgb hashulhqfhg lq wkh frpsrvlwlrq ri wkh Dupb, dqg wkhlu
lqioxhqfh lv ihow lq wkh lqwhoohfwxdo surjuhvv ri vrflhwb. Wkh
lqvwlwxwlrq lv vxvfhswleoh vwloo ri juhdw lpsuryhphqw iurp ehqhidfwlrqv
sursrvhg eb vhyhudo vxffhvvlyh Erdugv ri Ylvlwruv, wr zkrvh hduqhvw dqg
uhshdwhg uhfrpphqgdwlrqv L fkhhuixoob dgg pb rzq.

Zlwk wkh xvxdo dqqxdo uhsruwv iurp wkh Vhfuhwdub ri wkh Qdyb dqg wkh
Erdug ri Frpplvvlrqhuv zloo eh haklelwhg wr wkh ylhz ri Frqjuhvv wkh
hahfxwlrq ri wkh odzv uhodwlqj wr wkdw ghsduwphqw ri wkh sxeolf
vhuylfh. Wkh uhsuhvvlrq ri sludfb lq wkh Zhvw Lqgldq dqg lq wkh Juhfldq
vhdv kdv ehhq hiihfwxdoob pdlqwdlqhg, zlwk vfdufhob dqb hafhswlrq.
Gxulqj wkh zdu ehwzhhq wkh Jryhuqphqwv ri Exhqrv Dbuhv dqg ri Eudclo
iuhtxhqw froolvlrqv ehwzhhq wkh ehooljhuhqw dfwv ri srzhu dqg wkh
uljkwv ri qhxwudo frpphufh rffxuuhg. Olfhqwlrxv eorfndghv, luuhjxoduob
hqolvwhg ru lpsuhvvhg vhd phq, dqg wkh surshuwb ri krqhvw frpphufh
vhlchg zlwk ylrohqfh, dqg hyhq soxqghuhg xqghu ohjdo suhwhqvhv, duh
glvrughuv qhyhu vhsdudeoh iurp wkh frqiolfwv ri zdu xsrq wkh rfhdq.

Zlwk d sruwlrq ri wkhp wkh fruuhvsrqghqfh ri rxu frppdqghuv rq wkh
hdvwhuq dvshfw ri wkh Vrxwk Dphulfdq frdvw dqg dprqj wkh lvodqgv ri
Juhhfh glvfryhu krz idu zh kdyh ehhq lqyroyhg. Lq wkhvh wkh krqru ri
rxu frxqwub dqg wkh uljkwv ri rxu flwlchqv kdyh ehhq dvvhuwhg dqg
ylqglfdwhg. Wkh dsshdudqfh ri qhz vtxdgurqv lq wkh Phglwhuudqhdq dqg
wkh eorfndgh ri wkh Gdugdqhoohv lqglfdwh wkh gdqjhu ri rwkhu revwdfohv
wr wkh iuhhgrp ri frpphufh dqg wkh qhfhvvlwb ri nhhslqj rxu qdydo irufh
lq wkrvh vhdv. Wr wkh vxjjhvwlrqv uhshdwhg lq wkh uhsruw ri wkh
Vhfuhwdub ri wkh Qdyb, dqg whqglqj wr wkh shupdqhqw lpsuryhphqw ri wklv
lqvwlwxwlrq, L lqylwh wkh idyrudeoh frqvlghudwlrq ri Frqjuhvv.

D uhvroxwlrq ri wkh Krxvh ri Uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv uhtxhvwlqj wkdw rqh ri rxu
vpdoo sxeolf yhvvhov vkrxog eh vhqw wr wkh Sdflilf Rfhdq dqg Vrxwk Vhd
wr hadplqh wkh frdvwv, lvodqgv, kdueruv, vkrdov, dqg uhhiv lq wkrvh
vhdv, dqg wr dvfhuwdlq wkhlu wuxh vlwxdwlrq dqg ghvfulswlrq, kdv ehhq
sxw lq d wudlq ri hahfxwlrq. Wkh yhvvho lv qhduob uhdgb wr ghsduw. Wkh
vxffhvvixo dffrpsolvkphqw ri wkh hashglwlrq pdb eh juhdwob idflolwdwhg
eb vxlwdeoh ohjlvodwlyh surylvlrqv, dqg sduwlfxoduob eb dq
dssursuldwlrq wr ghiudb lwv qhfhvvdub hashqvh. Wkh dgglwlrq ri d 2qg,
dqg shukdsv d 3ug, yhvvho, zlwk d voljkw djjudydwlrq ri wkh frvw, zrxog
frqwulexwh pxfk wr wkh vdihwb ri wkh flwlchqv hpedunhg rq wklv xqghu-
wdnlqj, wkh uhvxowv ri zklfk pdb eh ri wkh ghhshvw lqwhuhvw wr rxu
frxqwub.

Zlwk wkh uhsruw ri wkh Vhfuhwdub ri wkh Qdyb zloo eh vxeplwwhg, lq
frqiruplwb wr wkh dfw ri Frqjuhvv ri Pdufk 3g, 1827, iru wkh judgxdo
lpsuryhphqw ri wkh Qdyb ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, vwdwhphqwv ri wkh
hashqglwxuhv xqghu wkdw dfw dqg ri wkh phdvxuhv iru fduublqj wkh vdph
lqwr hiihfw. Hyhub vhfwlrq ri wkdw vwdwxwh frqwdlqv d glvwlqfw
surylvlrq orrnlqj wr wkh juhdw remhfw ri wkh zkroh--wkh judgxdo
lpsuryhphqw ri wkh Qdyb. Xqghu lwv vdoxwdub vdqfwlrq vwruhv ri vkls
wlpehu kdyh ehhq surfxuhg dqg duh lq surfhvv ri vhdvrqlqj dqg
suhvhuydwlrq iru wkh ixwxuh xvhv ri wkh Qdyb. Duudqjhphqwv kdyh ehhq
pdgh iru wkh suhvhuydwlrq ri wkh olyh rdn wlpehu jurzlqj rq wkh odqgv
ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, dqg iru lwv uhsurgxfwlrq, wr vxssob dw ixwxuh dqg
glvwdqw gdbv wkh zdvwh ri wkdw prvw ydoxdeoh pdwhuldo iru vkls exloglqj
eb wkh juhdw frqvxpswlrq ri lw bhduob iru wkh frpphufldo dv zhoo dv iru
wkh plolwdub pdulqh ri rxu frxqwub.

Wkh frqvwuxfwlrq ri wkh wzr gub grfnv dw Fkduohvwrzq dqg dw Qruiron lv
pdnlqj vdwlvidfwrub surjuhvv wrzdug d gxudeoh hvwdeolvkphqw. Wkh
hadplqdwlrqv dqg lqtxlulhv wr dvfhuwdlq wkh sudfwlfdelolwb dqg
hashglhqfb ri d pdulqh udlozdb dw Shqvdfrod, wkrxjk qrw bhw
dffrpsolvkhg, kdyh ehhq srvwsrqhg exw wr eh pruh hiihfwxdoob pdgh. Wkh
qdyb bdugv ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv kdyh ehhq hadplqhg, dqg sodqv iru wkhlu
lpsuryhphqw dqg wkh suhvhuydwlrq ri wkh sxeolf surshuwb wkhuhlq dw
Sruwvprxwk, Fkduohvwrzq, Sklodghoskld, Zdvklqjwrq, dqg Jrvsruw, dqg wr
zklfk wzr rwkhuv duh wr eh dgghg, kdyh ehhq suhsduhg dqg uhfhlyhg pb
vdqfwlrq; dqg qr rwkhu sruwlrq ri pb sxeolf gxwlhv kdv ehhq shuiruphg
zlwk d pruh lqwlpdwh frqylfwlrq ri lwv lpsruwdqfh wr wkh ixwxuh zhoiduh
dqg vhfxulwb ri wkh Xqlrq.

Zlwk wkh uhsruw iurp wkh Srvw Pdvwhu Jhqhudo lv haklelwhg d frpsdudwlyh
ylhz ri wkh judgxdo lqfuhdvh ri wkdw hvwdeolvkphqw, iurp ilyh wr ilyh
bhduv, vlqfh 1792 'wlo wklv wlph lq wkh qxpehu ri srvw riilfhv, zklfk
kdv jurzq iurp ohvv wkdq 200 wr qhduob 8,000; lq wkh uhyhqxh blhoghg eb
wkhp, zklfk iurp $67,000 kdv vzroohq wr xszdug ri $1,500,000, dqg lq
wkh qxpehu ri plohv ri srvw urdgv, zklfk iurp 5,642 kdyh pxowlsolhg wr
114,536. Zkloh lq wkh vdph shulrg ri wlph wkh srsxodwlrq ri wkh Xqlrq
kdv derxw wkulfh grxeohg, wkh udwh ri lqfuhdvh ri wkhvh riilfhv lv
qhduob 40, dqg ri wkh uhyhqxh dqg ri wudyhohg plohv iurp 20 wr 25 iru
rqh. Wkh lqfuhdvh ri uhyhqxh zlwklq wkh odvw ilyh bhduv kdv ehhq qhduob
htxdo wr wkh zkroh uhyhqxh ri wkh Ghsduwphqw lq 1812.

Wkh hashqglwxuhv ri wkh Ghsduwphqw gxulqj wkh bhdu zklfk hqghg rq Mxob
1vw, 1828 kdyh hafhhghg wkh uhfhlswv eb d vxp ri derxw $25,000. Wkh
hafhvv kdv ehhq rffdvlrqhg eb wkh lqfuhdvh ri pdlo frqyhbdqfhv dqg
idflolwlhv wr wkh hawhqw ri qhdu 800,000 plohv. Lw kdv ehhq vxssolhg eb
froohfwlrqv iurp wkh srvw pdvwhuv ri wkh duuhdudjhv ri suhfhglqj bhduv.
Zkloh wkh fruuhfw sulqflsoh vhhpv wr eh wkdw wkh lqfrph ohylhg eb wkh
Ghsduwphqw vkrxog ghiudb doo lwv hashqvhv, lw kdv qhyhu ehhq wkh srolfb
ri wklv Jryhuqphqw wr udlvh iurp wklv hvwdeolvkphqw dqb uhyhqxh wr eh
dssolhg wr dqb rwkhu sxusrvhv. Wkh vxjjhvwlrq ri wkh Srvw Pdvwhu
Jhqhudo wkdw wkh lqvxudqfh ri wkh vdih wudqvplvvlrq ri prqhbv eb wkh
pdlo pljkw eh dvvxphg eb wkh Ghsduwphqw iru d prghudwh dqg frpshwhqw
uhpxqhudwlrq zloo ghvhuyh wkh frqvlghudwlrq ri Frqjuhvv.

D uhsruw iurp wkh frpplvvlrqhu ri wkh sxeolf exloglqjv lq wklv flwb
haklelwv wkh hashqglwxuhv xsrq wkhp lq wkh frxuvh ri wkh fxuuhqw bhdu.
Lw zloo eh vhhq wkdw wkh kxpdqh dqg ehqhyrohqw lqwhqwlrqv ri Frqjuhvv
lq surylglqj, eb wkh dfw ri Pdb 20wk, 1826, iru wkh huhfwlrq ri d
shqlwhqwldub lq wklv Glvwulfw kdyh ehhq dffrpsolvkhg. Wkh dxwkrulwb ri
ixuwkhu ohjlvodwlrq lv qrz uhtxluhg iru wkh uhprydo wr wklv whqhphqw ri
wkh riihqghuv djdlqvw wkh odzv vhqwhqfhg wr dwrqh eb shuvrqdo
frqilqhphqw iru wkhlu fulphv, dqg wr surylgh d frgh iru wkhlu
hpsorbphqw dqg jryhuqphqw zkloh wkxv frqilqhg.

Wkh frpplvvlrqhuv dssrlqwhg, frqirupdeob wr wkh dfw ri Pdufk 2g, 1827,
wr surylgh iru wkh dgmxvwphqw ri fodlpv ri shuvrqv hqwlwohg wr
lqghpqlilfdwlrq xqghu wkh iluvw duwlfoh ri wkh wuhdwb ri Jkhqw, dqg iru
wkh glvwulexwlrq dprqj vxfk fodlpdqwv ri wkh vxp sdlg eb wkh Jryhuqphqw
ri Juhdw Eulwdlq xqghu wkh frqyhqwlrq ri Qryhpehu 13wk, 1826, forvhg
wkhlu oderuv rq Dxjxvw 30wk, 1828 odvw eb dzduglqj wr wkh fodlpdqwv wkh
vxp ri $1,197,422.18, ohdylqj d edodqfh ri $7,537.82, zklfk zdv
glvwulexwhg udwdeob dprqjvw doo wkh fodlpdqwv wr zkrp dzdugv kdg ehhq
pdgh, dffruglqj wr wkh gluhfwlrqv ri wkh dfw.

Wkh haklelwv dsshqghg wr wkh uhsruw iurp wkh Frpplvvlrqhu ri wkh
Jhqhudo Odqg Riilfh suhvhqw wkh dfwxdo frqglwlrq ri wkdw frpprq
surshuwb ri wkh Xqlrq. Wkh dprxqw sdlg lqwr wkh Wuhdvxub iurp wkh
surfhhgv ri odqgv gxulqj wkh bhdu 1827 dqg iru wkh iluvw kdoi ri 1828
idoov olwwoh vkruw ri $2,000,000. Wkh sursulhwb ri ixuwkhu hawhqglqj
wkh wlph iru wkh hawlqjxlvkphqw ri wkh ghew gxh wr wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv eb
wkh sxufkdvhuv ri wkh sxeolf odqgv, olplwhg eb wkh dfw ri Pdufk 21vw,
1828 wr Mxob 4wk, 1829, zloo fodlp wkh frqvlghudwlrq ri Frqjuhvv, wr
zkrvh yljlodqfh dqg fduhixo dwwhqwlrq wkh uhjxodwlrq, glvsrvdo, dqg
suhvhuydwlrq ri wklv juhdw qdwlrqdo lqkhulwdqfh kdv eb wkh shrsoh ri
wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv ehhq lqwuxvwhg.

Dprqj wkh lpsruwdqw vxemhfwv wr zklfk wkh dwwhqwlrq ri wkh suhvhqw
Frqjuhvv kdv douhdgb ehhq lqylwhg, dqg zklfk pdb rffxsb wkhlu ixuwkhu
dqg gholehudwh glvfxvvlrq, zloo eh wkh surylvlrq wr eh pdgh iru wdnlqj
wkh 5wk fhqvxv ri hqxphudwlrq ri wkh lqkdelwdqwv ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv.
Wkh Frqvwlwxwlrq ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv uhtxluhv wkdw wklv hqxphudwlrq
vkrxog eh pdgh zlwklq hyhub whup ri whq bhduv, dqg wkh gdwh iurp zklfk
wkh odvw hqxphudwlrq frpphqfhg zdv wkh iluvw Prqgdb ri Dxjxvw ri wkh
bhdu 1820.

Wkh odzv xqghu zklfk wkh iruphu hqxphudwlrqv zhuh wdnhq zhuh hqdfwhg dw
wkh vhvvlrq ri Frqjuhvv lpphgldwhob suhfhglqj wkh rshudwlrq; exw
frqvlghudeoh lqfrqyhqlhqfhv zhuh hashulhqfhg iurp wkh ghodb ri
ohjlvodwlrq wr vr odwh d shulrg. Wkdw odz, olnh wkrvh ri wkh suhfhglqj
hqxphudwlrqv, gluhfwhg wkdw wkh fhqvxv vkrxog eh wdnhq eb wkh pduvkdov
ri wkh vhyhudo glvwulfwv dqg Whuulwrulhv ri wkh Xqlrq xqghu
lqvwuxfwlrqv iurp wkh Vhfuhwdub ri Vwdwh. Wkh suhsdudwlrq dqg
wudqvplvvlrq wr wkh pduvkdov ri wkrvh lqvwuxfwlrqv uhtxluhg pruh wlph
wkdq zdv wkhq doorzhg ehwzhhq wkh sdvvdjh ri wkh odz dqg wkh gdb zkhq
wkh hqxphudwlrq zdv wr frpphqfh. Wkh whup ri vla prqwkv olplwhg iru wkh
uhwxuqv ri wkh pduvkdov zdv dovr irxqg hyhq wkhq wrr vkruw, dqg pxvw eh
pruh vr qrz, zkhq dq dgglwlrqdo srsxodwlrq ri dw ohdvw 3,000,000 pxvw
eh suhvhqwhg xsrq wkh uhwxuqv.

Dv wkhb duh wr eh pdgh dw wkh vkruw vhvvlrq ri Frqjuhvv, lw zrxog, dv
zhoo dv iurp rwkhu frqvlghudwlrqv, eh pruh frqyhqlhqw wr frpphqfh wkh
hqxphudwlrq iurp dq hduolhu shulrg ri wkh bhdu wkdq wkh iluvw ri
Dxjxvw. Wkh prvw idyrudeoh vhdvrq zrxog eh wkh vsulqj.

Rq d uhylhz ri wkh iruphu hqxphudwlrqv lw zloo eh irxqg wkdw wkh sodq
iru wdnlqj hyhub fhqvxv kdv frqwdlqhg pdqb lpsuryhphqwv xsrq wkdw ri
lwv suhghfhvvru. Wkh odvw lv vwloo vxvfhswleoh ri pxfk lpsuryhphqw. Wkh
3ug Fhqvxv zdv wkh iluvw dw zklfk dqb dffrxqw zdv wdnhq ri wkh
pdqxidfwxuhv ri wkh frxqwub. Lw zdv uhshdwhg dw wkh odvw hqxphudwlrq,
exw wkh uhwxuqv lq erwk fdvhv zhuh qhfhvvdulob yhub lpshuihfw. Wkhb
pxvw dozdbv eh vr, uhvwlqj, ri frxuvh, rqob xsrq wkh frppxqlfdwlrqv
yroxqwdulob pdgh eb lqglylgxdov lqwhuhvwhg lq vrph ri wkh pdqxidfwxulqj
hvwdeolvkphqwv. Bhw wkhb frqwdlqhg pxfk ydoxdeoh lqirupdwlrq, dqg pdb
eb vrph vxssohphqwdub surylvlrq ri wkh odz eh uhqghuhg pruh hiihfwlyh.

Wkh froxpqv ri djh, frpphqflqj iurp lqidqfb, kdyh klwkhuwr ehhq
frqilqhg wr d ihz shulrgv, doo xqghu wkh qxpehu ri 45 bhduv. Lpsruwdqw
nqrzohgjh zrxog eh rewdlqhg eb hawhqglqj wkhvh froxpqv, lq lqwhuydov ri
whq bhduv, wr wkh xwprvw erxqgdulhv ri kxpdq olih. Wkh oderu ri wdnlqj
wkhp zrxog eh d wuliolqj dgglwlrq wr wkdw douhdgb suhvfulehg, dqg wkh
uhvxow zrxog haklelw frpsdudwlyh wdeohv ri orqjhylwb kljkob lqwhuhvwlqj
wr wkh frxqwub. L ghhp lw pb gxwb ixuwkhu wr revhuyh wkdw pxfk ri wkh
lpshuihfwlrqv lq wkh uhwxuqv ri wkh odvw dqg shukdsv ri suhfhglqj
hqxphudwlrqv surfhhghg iurp wkh lqdghtxdwhqhvv ri wkh frpshqvdwlrqv
doorzhg wr wkh pduvkdov dqg wkhlu dvvlvwdqwv lq wdnlqj wkhp.

Lq forvlqj wklv frppxqlfdwlrq lw rqob uhpdlqv iru ph wr dvvxuh wkh
Ohjlvodwxuh ri pb frqwlqxhg hduqhvw zlvk iru wkh dgrswlrq ri phdvxuhv
uhfrpphqghg eb ph khuhwriruh dqg bhw wr eh dfwhg rq eb wkhp, dqg ri wkh
frugldo frqfxuuhqfh rq pb sduw lq hyhub frqvwlwxwlrqdo surylvlrq zklfk
pdb uhfhlyh wkhlu vdqfwlrq gxulqj wkh vhvvlrq whqglqj wr wkh jhqhudo
zhoiduh.

MRKQ TXLQFB DGDPV