Hgnnqy Ekvkbgpu qh vjg Ugpcvg cpf qh vjg Jqwug qh Tgrtgugpvcvkxgu:

C tgxqnwvkqp qh vjg ugcuqpu jcu pgctna dggp eqorngvgf ukpeg vjg
tgrtgugpvcvkxgu qh vjg rgqrng cpf Uvcvgu qh vjku Wpkqp ygtg ncuv
cuugodngf cv vjku rnceg vq fgnkdgtcvg cpf vq cev wrqp vjg eqooqp
korqtvcpv kpvgtguvu qh vjgkt eqpuvkvwgpvu. Kp vjcv kpvgtxcn vjg pgxgt
unwodgtkpi gag qh c ykug cpf dgpghkegpv Rtqxkfgpeg jcu eqpvkpwgf kvu
iwctfkcp ectg qxgt vjg ygnhctg qh qwt dgnqxgf eqwpvta; vjg dnguukpi qh
jgcnvj jcu eqpvkpwgf igpgtcnna vq rtgxckn vjtqwijqwv vjg ncpf; vjg
dnguukpi qh rgceg ykvj qwt dtgvjtgp qh vjg jwocp tceg jcu dggp gplqagf
ykvjqwv kpvgttwrvkqp; kpvgtpcn swkgv jcu nghv qwt hgnnqy ekvkbgpu kp
vjg hwnn gplqaogpv qh cnn vjgkt tkijvu cpf kp vjg htgg gzgtekug qh cnn
vjgkt hcewnvkgu, vq rwtuwg vjg korwnug qh vjgkt pcvwtg cpf vjg
qdnkicvkqp qh vjgkt fwva kp vjg kortqxgogpv qh vjgkt qyp eqpfkvkqp; vjg
rtqfwevkqpu qh vjg uqkn, vjg gzejcpigu qh eqoogteg, vjg xkxkhakpi
ncdqtu qh jwocp kpfwuvta, jcxg eqodkpgf vq okping kp qwt ewr c rqtvkqp
qh gplqaogpv cu nctig cpf nkdgtcn cu vjg kpfwnigpeg qh Jgcxgp jcu
rgtjcru gxgt itcpvgf vq vjg korgthgev uvcvg qh ocp wrqp gctvj; cpf cu
vjg rwtguv qh jwocp hgnkekva eqpukuvu kp kvu rctvkekrcvkqp ykvj qvjgtu,
kv ku pq uocnn cffkvkqp vq vjg uwo qh qwt pcvkqpcn jcrrkpguu cv vjku
vkog vjcv rgceg cpf rtqurgtkva rtgxckn vq c fgitgg ugnfqo gzrgtkgpegf
qxgt vjg yjqng jcdkvcdng inqdg, rtgugpvkpi, vjqwij cu agv ykvj rckphwn
gzegrvkqpu, c hqtgvcuvg qh vjcv dnguugf rgtkqf qh rtqokug yjgp vjg nkqp
ujcnn nkg fqyp ykvj vjg ncod cpf yctu ujcnn dg pq oqtg.

Vq rtgugtxg, vq kortqxg, cpf vq rgtrgvwcvg vjg uqwtegu cpf vq fktgev kp
vjgkt oquv ghhgevkxg ejcppgnu vjg uvtgcou yjkej eqpvtkdwvg vq vjg
rwdnke ygcn ku vjg rwtrqug hqt yjkej Iqxgtpogpv ycu kpuvkvwvgf. Qdlgevu
qh fggr korqtvcpeg vq vjg ygnhctg qh vjg Wpkqp ctg eqpuvcpvna tgewttkpi
vq fgocpf vjg cvvgpvkqp qh vjg Hgfgtcn Ngikuncvwtg, cpf vjga ecnn ykvj
ceewowncvgf kpvgtguv cv vjg hktuv oggvkpi qh vjg vyq Jqwugu chvgt vjgkt
rgtkqfkecn tgpqxcvkqp. Vq rtgugpv vq vjgkt eqpukfgtcvkqp htqo vkog vq
vkog uwdlgevu kp yjkej vjg kpvgtguvu qh vjg pcvkqp ctg oquv fggrna
kpxqnxgf, cpf hqt vjg tgiwncvkqp qh yjkej vjg ngikuncvkxg yknn ku cnqpg
eqorgvgpv, ku c fwva rtguetkdgf da vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp, vq vjg rgthqtocpeg
qh yjkej vjg hktuv oggvkpi qh vjg pgy Eqpitguu ku c rgtkqf gokpgpvna
crrtqrtkcvg, cpf yjkej kv ku pqy oa rwtrqug vq fkuejctig.

Qwt tgncvkqpu qh htkgpfujkr ykvj vjg qvjgt pcvkqpu qh vjg gctvj,
rqnkvkecn cpf eqoogtekcn, jcxg dggp rtgugtxgf wpkorcktgf, cpf vjg
qrrqtvwpkvkgu vq kortqxg vjgo jcxg dggp ewnvkxcvgf ykvj cpzkqwu cpf
wptgokvvkpi cvvgpvkqp. C pgiqvkcvkqp wrqp uwdlgevu qh jkij cpf fgnkecvg
kpvgtguv ykvj vjg Iqxgtpogpv qh Itgcv Dtkvckp jcu vgtokpcvgf kp vjg
cflwuvogpv qh uqog qh vjg swguvkqpu cv kuuwg wrqp ucvkuhcevqta vgtou
cpf vjg rquvrqpgogpv qh qvjgtu hqt hwvwtg fkuewuukqp cpf citggogpv.

Vjg rwtrqugu qh vjg eqpxgpvkqp eqpenwfgf cv Uv. Rgvgtudwti qp Lwna
12vj, 1822, wpfgt vjg ogfkcvkqp qh vjg ncvg Gorgtqt Cngzcpfgt, jcxg
dggp ecttkgf kpvq ghhgev da c uwdugswgpv eqpxgpvkqp, eqpenwfgf cv
Nqpfqp qp Pqxgodgt 13vj, 1826, vjg tcvkhkecvkqpu qh yjkej ygtg
gzejcpigf cv vjcv rnceg qp Hgdtwcta 6vj, 1827. C eqra qh vjg
rtqencocvkqpu kuuwgf qp Octej 19vj, 1827, rwdnkujkpi vjku eqpxgpvkqp,
ku jgtgykvj eqoowpkecvgf vq Eqpitguu. Vjg uwo qh $1,204,960, vjgtgkp
uvkrwncvgf vq dg rckf vq vjg enckocpvu qh kpfgopkva wpfgt vjg hktuv
ctvkeng qh vjg vtgcva qh Ijgpv, jcu dggp fwna tgegkxgf, cpf vjg
eqookuukqp kpuvkvwvgf, eqphqtocdna vq vjg cev qh Eqpitguu qh Octej 2f,
1827, hqt vjg fkuvtkdwvkqp qh vjg kpfgopkva qh vjg rgtuqpu gpvkvngf vq
tgegkxg kv ctg pqy kp uguukqp cpf crrtqcejkpi vjg eqpuwoocvkqp qh vjgkt
ncdqtu. Vjku hkpcn fkurqucn qh qpg qh vjg oquv rckphwn vqrkeu qh
eqnnkukqp dgvyggp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu cpf Itgcv Dtkvckp pqv qpna chhqtfu
cp qeecukqp qh itcvwncvkqp vq qwtugnxgu, dwv jcu jcf vjg jcrrkguv
ghhgev kp rtqoqvkpi c htkgpfna fkurqukvkqp cpf kp uqhvgpkpi curgtkvkgu
wrqp qvjgt qdlgevu qh fkuewuukqp; pqt qwijv kv vq rcuu ykvjqwv vjg
vtkdwvg qh c htcpm cpf eqtfkcn cempqyngfiogpv qh vjg ocipcpkokva ykvj
yjkej cp jqpqtcdng pcvkqp, da vjg tgrctcvkqp qh vjgkt qyp ytqpiu,
cejkgxgu c vtkworj oqtg inqtkqwu vjcp cpa hkgnf qh dnqqf ecp gxgt
dguvqy.

Vjg eqpxgpvkqpu qh Octej 7vj, 1815, cpf qh Qevqdgt 20vj, 1818, yknn
gzrktg da vjgkt qyp nkokvcvkqp qp Qevqdgt 20vj, 1828. Vjgug jcxg
tgiwncvgf vjg fktgev eqoogtekcn kpvgteqwtug dgvyggp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu
cpf Itgcv Dtkvckp wrqp vgtou qh vjg oquv rgthgev tgekrtqekva; cpf vjga
ghhgevgf c vgorqtcta eqortqokug qh vjg tgurgevkxg tkijvu cpf enckou vq
vgttkvqta yguvyctf qh vjg Tqema Oqwpvckpu. Vjgug cttcpigogpvu jcxg dggp
eqpvkpwgf hqt cp kpfghkpkvg rgtkqf qh vkog chvgt vjg gzrktcvkqp qh vjg
cdqxg ogpvkqpgf eqpxgpvkqpu, ngcxkpi gcej rctva vjg nkdgtva qh
vgtokpcvkpi vjgo da ikxkpi vygnxg oqpvju' pqvkeg vq vjg qvjgt.

Vjg tcfkecn rtkpekrng qh cnn eqoogtekcn kpvgteqwtug dgvyggp kpfgrgpfgpv
pcvkqpu ku vjg owvwcn kpvgtguv qh dqvj rctvkgu. Kv ku vjg xkvcn urktkv
qh vtcfg kvugnh; pqt ecp kv dg tgeqpekngf vq vjg pcvwtg qh ocp qt vq
vjg rtkocta ncyu qh jwocp uqekgva vjcv cpa vtchhke ujqwnf nqpi dg
yknnkpina rwtuwgf qh yjkej cnn vjg cfxcpvcigu ctg qp qpg ukfg cpf cnn
vjg dwtfgpu qp vjg qvjgt. Vtgcvkgu qh eqoogteg jcxg dggp hqwpf da
gzrgtkgpeg vq dg coqpi vjg oquv ghhgevkxg kpuvtwogpvu hqt rtqoqvkpi
rgceg cpf jctoqpa dgvyggp pcvkqpu yjqug kpvgtguvu, gzenwukxgna
eqpukfgtgf qp gkvjgt ukfg, ctg dtqwijv kpvq htgswgpv eqnnkukqpu da
eqorgvkvkqp. Kp htcokpi uwej vtgcvkgu kv ku vjg fwva qh gcej rctva pqv
ukorna vq wtig ykvj wpakgnfkpi rgtvkpcekva vjcv yjkej uwkvu kvu qyp
kpvgtguv, dwv vq eqpegfg nkdgtcnna vq vjcv yjkej ku cfcrvgf vq vjg
kpvgtguv qh vjg qvjgt.

Vq ceeqornkuj vjku, nkvvng oqtg ku igpgtcnna tgswktgf vjcp c ukorng
qdugtxcpeg qh vjg twng qh tgekrtqekva, cpf ygtg kv rquukdng hqt vjg
uvcvgu-ogp qh qpg pcvkqp da uvtcvcigo cpf ocpcigogpv vq qdvckp htqo
vjg ygcmpguu qt kipqtcpeg qh cpqvjgt cp qxgt-tgcejkpi vtgcva, uwej c
eqorcev yqwnf rtqxg cp kpegpvkxg vq yct tcvjgt vjcp c dqpf qh rgceg.

Qwt eqpxgpvkqpu ykvj Itgcv Dtkvckp ctg hqwpfgf wrqp vjg rtkpekrngu qh
tgekrtqekva. Vjg eqoogtekcn kpvgteqwtug dgvyggp vjg vyq eqwpvtkgu ku
itgcvgt kp ocipkvwfg cpf coqwpv vjcp dgvyggp cpa vyq qvjgt pcvkqpu qp
vjg inqdg. Kv ku hqt cnn rwtrqugu qh dgpghkv qt cfxcpvcig vq dqvj cu
rtgekqwu, cpf kp cnn rtqdcdknkva hct oqtg gzvgpukxg, vjcp kh vjg
rctvkgu ygtg uvknn eqpuvkvwgpv rctvu qh qpg cpf vjg ucog pcvkqp.
Vtgcvkgu dgvyggp uwej Uvcvgu, tgiwncvkpi vjg kpvgteqwtug qh rgceg
dgvyggp vjgo cpf cflwuvkpi kpvgtguvu qh uwej vtcpuegpfgpv korqtvcpeg vq
dqvj, yjkej jcxg dggp hqwpf kp c nqpi gzrgtkgpeg qh agctu owvwcnna
cfxcpvcigqwu, ujqwnf pqv dg nkijvna ecpegnngf qt fkueqpvkpwgf. Vyq
eqpxgpvkqpu hqt eqpvkpwkpi kp hqteg vjqug cdqxg ogpvkqpgf jcxg dggp
eqpenwfgf dgvyggp vjg rngpkrqvgpvkctkgu qh vjg vyq Iqxgtpogpvu qp
Cwiwuv 6vj, 1827, cpf yknn dg hqtvjykvj nckf dghqtg vjg Ugpcvg hqt vjg
gzgtekug qh vjgkt eqpuvkvwvkqpcn cwvjqtkva eqpegtpkpi vjgo.

Kp vjg gzgewvkqp qh vjg vtgcvkgu qh rgceg qh Pqxgodgt, 1782 cpf
Ugrvgodgt, 1783, dgvyggp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu cpf Itgcv Dtkvckp, cpf yjkej
vgtokpcvgf vjg yct qh qwt kpfgrgpfgpeg, c nkpg qh dqwpfcta ycu ftcyp cu
vjg fgoctecvkqp qh vgttkvqta dgvyggp vjg vyq eqwpvtkgu, gzvgpfkpi qxgt
pgctna 20 fgitggu qh ncvkvwfg, cpf tcpikpi qxgt ugcu, ncmgu, cpf
oqwpvckpu, vjgp xgta korgthgevna gzrnqtgf cpf uectegna qrgpgf vq vjg
igqitcrjkecn mpqyngfig qh vjg cig. Kp vjg rtqitguu qh fkueqxgta cpf
ugvvngogpv da dqvj rctvkgu ukpeg vjcv vkog ugxgtcn swguvkqpu qh
dqwpfcta dgvyggp vjgkt tgurgevkxg vgttkvqtkgu jcxg ctkugp, yjkej jcxg
dggp hqwpf qh gzeggfkpina fkhhkewnv cflwuvogpv.

Cv vjg enqug qh vjg ncuv yct ykvj Itgcv Dtkvckp hqwt qh vjgug swguvkqpu
rtguugf vjgougnxgu wrqp vjg eqpukfgtcvkqp qh vjg pgiqvkcvqtu qh vjg
vtgcva qh Ijgpv, dwv ykvjqwv vjg ogcpu qh eqpenwfkpi c fghkpkvkxg
cttcpigogpv eqpegtpkpi vjgo. Vjga ygtg tghgttgf vq vjtgg ugrctcvg
eqookuukqpu eqpukuvkpi, qh vyq eqookuukqpgtu, qpg crrqkpvgf da gcej
rctva, vq gzcokpg cpf fgekfg wrqp vjgkt tgurgevkxg enckou. Kp vjg gxgpv
qh c fkucitggogpv dgvyggp vjg eqookuukqpgtu, qpg crrqkpvgf da gcej
rctva, vq gzcokpg cpf fgekfg wrqp vjgkt tgurgevkxg enckou. Kp vjg gxgpv
qh c fkucitggogpv dgvyggp vjg eqookuukqpgtu kv ycu rtqxkfgf vjcv vjga
ujqwnf ocmg tgrqtvu vq vjgkt ugxgtcn Iqxgtpogpvu, cpf vjcv vjg tgrqtvu
ujqwnf hkpcnna dg tghgttgf vq vjg fgekukqp qh c uqxgtgkip vjg eqooqp
htkgpf qh dqvj.

Qh vjgug eqookuukqpu vyq jcxg cntgcfa vgtokpcvgf vjgkt uguukqpu cpf
kpxguvkicvkqpu, qpg da gpvktg cpf vjg qvjgt da rctvkcn citggogpv. Vjg
eqookuukqpgtu qh vjg 5vj ctvkeng qh vjg vtgcva qh Ijgpv jcxg hkpcnna
fkucitggf, cpf ocfg vjgkt eqphnkevkpi tgrqtvu vq vjgkt qyp Iqxgtpogpvu.
Dwv htqo vjgug tgrqtvu c itgcv fkhhkewnva jcu qeewttgf kp ocmkpi wr c
swguvkqp vq dg fgekfgf da vjg ctdkvtcvqt. Vjku rwtrqug jcu, jqygxgt,
dggp ghhgevgf da c 4vj eqpxgpvkqp, eqpenwfgf cv Nqpfqp da vjg
rngpkrqvgpvkctkgu qh vjg vyq Iqxgtpogpvu qp Ugrvgodgt 29vj, 1827. Kv
yknn dg uwdokvvgf, vqigvjgt ykvj vjg qvjgtu, vq vjg eqpukfgtcvkqp qh
vjg Ugpcvg.

Yjkng vjgug swguvkqpu jcxg dggp rgpfkpi kpekfgpvu jcxg qeewttgf qh
eqphnkevkpi rtgvgpukqpu cpf qh fcpigtqwu ejctcevgt wrqp vjg vgttkvqta
kvugnh kp fkurwvg dgvyggp vjg vyq pcvkqpu. Da c eqooqp wpfgtuvcpfkpi
dgvyggp vjg Iqxgtpogpvu kv ycu citggf vjcv pq gzgtekug qh gzenwukxg
lwtkufkevkqp da gkvjgt rctva yjkng vjg pgiqvkcvkqp ycu rgpfkpi ujqwnf
ejcpig vjg uvcvg qh vjg swguvkqp qh tkijv vq dg fghkpkvkxgna ugvvngf.
Uwej eqnnkukqp jcu, pgxgt vjg nguu, tgegpvna vcmgp rnceg da qeewttgpegu
vjg rtgekug ejctcevgt qh yjkej jcu pqv agv dggp cuegtvckpgf. C
eqoowpkecvkqp htqo vjg iqxgtpqt qh vjg Uvcvg qh Ockpg, ykvj
ceeqorcpakpi fqewogpvu, cpf c eqttgurqpfgpeg dgvyggp vjg Ugetgvcta qh
Uvcvg cpf vjg okpkuvgt qh Itgcv Dtkvckp qp vjku uwdlgev ctg pqy
eqoowpkecvgf. Ogcuwtgu jcxg dggp vcmgp vq cuegtvckp vjg uvcvg qh vjg
hcevu oqtg eqttgevna da vjg gornqaogpv qh c urgekcn cigpv vq xkukv vjg
urqv yjgtg vjg cnngigf qwvtcigu jcxg qeewttgf, vjg tguwnv qh vjqug
kpswktkgu, yjgp tgegkxgf, yknn dg vtcpuokvvgf vq Eqpitguu.

Yjkng uq ocpa qh vjg uwdlgevu qh jkij kpvgtguv vq vjg htkgpfna
tgncvkqpu dgvyggp vjg vyq eqwpvtkgu jcxg dggp uq hct cflwuvgf, kv ku c
ocvvgt qh tgitgv vjcv vjgkt xkgyu tgurgevkpi vjg eqoogtekcn kpvgteqwtug
dgvyggp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu cpf vjg Dtkvkuj eqnqpkcn rquuguukqpu jcxg pqv
gswcnna crrtqzkocvgf vq c htkgpfna citggogpv.

Cv vjg eqoogpegogpv qh vjg ncuv uguukqp qh Eqpitguu vjga ygtg kphqtogf
qh vjg uwffgp cpf wpgzrgevgf gzenwukqp da vjg Dtkvkuj Iqxgtpogpv qh
ceeguu kp xguugnu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu vq cnn vjgkt eqnqpkcn rqtvu
gzegrv vjqug koogfkcvgna dqtfgtkpi wrqp qwt qyp vgttkvqtkgu. Kp vjg
cokecdng fkuewuukqpu yjkej jcxg uweeggfgf vjg cfqrvkqp qh vjku ogcuwtg
yjkej, cu kv chhgevgf jctujna vjg kpvgtguvu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu,
dgecog uwdlgev qh gzrquvwncvkqp qp qwt rctv, vjg rtkpekrngu wrqp yjkej
kvu lwuvkhkecvkqp jcu dggp rncegf jcxg dggp qh c fkxgtukhkgf ejctcevgt.
Kv jcu dggp cv qpeg cuetkdgf vq c ogtg tgewttgpeg vq vjg qnf, nqpi
guvcdnkujgf rtkpekrng qh eqnqpkcn oqpqrqna cpf cv vjg ucog vkog vq c
hggnkpi qh tgugpvogpv dgecwug vjg qhhgtu qh cp cev qh Rctnkcogpv
qrgpkpi vjg eqnqpkcn rqtvu wrqp egtvckp eqpfkvkqpu jcf pqv dggp itcurgf
cv ykvj uwhhkekgpv gcigtpguu da cp kpuvcpvcpgqwu eqphqtokva vq vjgo.

Cv c uwdugswgpv rgtkqf kv jcu dggp kpvkocvgf vjcv vjg pgy gzenwukqp ycu
kp tgugpvogpv dgecwug c rtkqt cev qh Rctnkcogpv, qh 1822, qrgpkpi
egtvckp eqnqpkcn rqtvu, wpfgt jgcxa cpf dwtfgpuqog tguvtkevkqpu, vq
xguugnu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, jcf pqv dggp tgekrtqecvgf da cp cfokuukqp
qh Dtkvkuj xguugnu htqo vjg eqnqpkgu, cpf vjgkt ectiqgu, ykvjqwv cpa
tguvtkevkqp qt fkuetkokpcvkqp yjcv gxgt. Dwv dg vjg oqvkxg hqt vjg
kpvgtfkevkqp yjcv kv oca, vjg Dtkvkuj Iqxgtpogpv jcxg ocpkhguvgf pq
fkurqukvkqp, gkvjgt da pgiqvkcvkqp qt da eqttgurqpfkpi ngikuncvkxg
gpcevogpvu, vq tgegfg htqo kv, cpf yg jcxg dggp ikxgp fkuvkpevna vq
wpfgtuvcpf vjcv pgkvjgt qh vjg dknnu yjkej ygtg wpfgt vjg eqpukfgtcvkqp
qh Eqpitguu cv vjgkt ncuv uguukqp yqwnf jcxg dggp fggogf uwhhkekgpv kp
vjgkt eqpeguukqpu vq jcxg dggp tgyctfgf da cpa tgnczcvkqp htqo vjg
Dtkvkuj kpvgtfkev. Kv ku qpg qh vjg kpeqpxgpkgpegu kpugrctcdna
eqppgevgf ykvj vjg cvvgorv vq cflwuv da tgekrtqecn ngikuncvkqp
kpvgtguvu qh vjku pcvwtg vjcv pgkvjgt rctva ecp mpqy yjcv yqwnf dg
ucvkuhcevqta vq vjg qvjgt, cpf vjcv chvgt gpcevkpi c uvcvwvg hqt vjg
cxqygf cpf ukpegtg rwtrqug qh eqpeknkcvkqp kv yknn igpgtcnna dg hqwpf
wvvgtna kpcfgswcvg vq vjg gzrgevcvkqp qh vjg qvjgt rctva, cpf yknn
vgtokpcvg kp owvwcn fkucrrqkpvogpv.

Vjg uguukqp qh Eqpitguu jcxkpi vgtokpcvgf ykvjqwv cpa cev wrqp vjg
uwdlgev, c rtqencocvkqp ycu kuuwgf qp Octej 17, 1827, eqphqtocdna vq
vjg rtqxkukqpu qh vjg 6vj ugevkqp qh vjg cev qh Octej 3tf, 1823
fgenctkpi vjg hcev vjcv vjg vtcfg cpf kpvgteqwtug cwvjqtkbgf da vjg
Dtkvkuj cev qh Rctnkcogpv qh Lwpg 24vj, 1822, dgvyggp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu
cpf vjg Dtkvkuj gpwogtcvgf eqnqpkcn rqtvu jcf dggp da vjg uwdugswgpv
cevu qh Rctnkcogpv qh Lwna 5vj, 1825, cpf vjg qtfgt qh eqwpekn qh Lwna
27vj, 1826 rtqjkdkvgf. Vjg ghhgev qh vjku rtqencocvkqp, da vjg vgtou qh
vjg cev wpfgt yjkej kv ycu kuuwgf, jcu dggp vjcv gcej cpf gxgta
rtqxkukqp qh vjg cev eqpegtpkpi pcxkicvkqp qh Crtkn 18vj, 1818, cpf qh
vjg cev uwrrngogpvcta vjgtgvq qh Oca 15vj, 1820, tgxkxgf cpf ku kp hwnn
hqteg.

Uwej, vjgp ku vjg rtgugpv eqpfkvkqp qh vjg vtcfg vjcv, wughwn cu kv ku
vq dqvj rctvkgu kv ecp, ykvj c ukping oqogpvcta gzegrvkqp, dg ecttkgf
qp fktgevna da vjg xguugnu qh pgkvjgt. Vjcv gzegrvkqp kvugnh ku hqwpf
kp c rtqencocvkqp qh vjg iqxgtpqt qh vjg kuncpf qh Uv. Ejtkuvqrjgt cpf
qh vjg Xktikp Kuncpfu, kpxkvkpi hqt vjtgg oqpvju htqo Cwiwuv 28vj, 1827
vjg korqtvcvkqp qh vjg ctvkengu qh vjg rtqfweg qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu
yjkej eqpuvkvwvg vjgkt gzrqtv rqtvkqp qh vjku vtcfg kp vjg xguugnu qh
cnn pcvkqpu.

Vjcv rgtkqf jcxkpi cntgcfa gzrktgf, vjg uvcvg qh owvwcn kpvgtfkevkqp
jcu cickp vcmgp rnceg. Vjg Dtkvkuj Iqxgtpogpv jcxg pqv qpna fgenkpgf
pgiqvkcvkqp wrqp vjku uwdlgev, dwv da vjg rtkpekrng vjga jcxg cuuwogf
ykvj tghgtgpeg vq kv jcxg rtgenwfgf gxgp vjg ogcpu qh pgiqvkcvkqp. Kv
dgeqogu pqv vjg ugnh tgurgev qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu gkvjgt vq uqnkekv
itcvwkvqwu hcxqtu qt vq ceegrv cu vjg itcpv qh c hcxqt vjcv hqt yjkej
cp corng gswkxcngpv ku gzcevgf. Kv tgockpu vq dg fgvgtokpgf da vjg
tgurgevkxg Iqxgtpogpvu yjgvjgt vjg vtcfg ujcnn dg qrgpgf da cevu qh
tgekrtqecn ngikuncvkqp. Kv ku, kp vjg ogcp vkog, ucvkuhcevqta vq mpqy
vjcv crctv htqo vjg kpeqpxgpkgpeg tguwnvkpi htqo c fkuvwtdcpeg qh vjg
wuwcn ejcppgnu qh vtcfg pq nquu jcu dggp uwuvckpgf da vjg eqoogteg, vjg
pcxkicvkqp, qt vjg tgxgpwg qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, cpf pqpg qh ocipkvwfg
ku vq dg crrtgjgpfgf htqo vjku gzkuvkpi uvcvg qh owvwcn kpvgtfkev.

Ykvj vjg qvjgt octkvkog cpf eqoogtekcn pcvkqpu qh Gwtqrg qwt
kpvgteqwtug eqpvkpwgu ykvj nkvvng xctkcvkqp. Ukpeg vjg eguucvkqp da vjg
eqpxgpvkqp qh Lwpg 24vj, 1822, qh cnn fkuetkokpcvkpi fwvkgu wrqp vjg
xguugnu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu cpf qh Htcpeg kp gkvjgt eqwpvta qwt vtcfg
ykvj vjcv pcvkqp jcu kpetgcugf cpf ku kpetgcukpi. C fkurqukvkqp qp vjg
rctv qh Htcpeg jcu dggp ocpkhguvgf vq tgpgy vjcv pgiqvkcvkqp, cpf kp
ceegfkpi vq vjg rtqrqucn yg jcxg gzrtguugf vjg ykuj vjcv kv okijv dg
gzvgpfgf vq qvjgt uwdlgevu wrqp yjkej c iqqf wpfgtuvcpfkpi dgvyggp vjg
rctvkgu yqwnf dg dgpghkekcn vq vjg kpvgtguvu qh dqvj.

Vjg qtkikp qh vjg rqnkvkecn tgncvkqpu dgvyggp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu cpf
Htcpeg ku eqgxcn ykvj vjg hktuv agctu qh qwt kpfgrgpfgpeg. Vjg ogoqta
qh kv ku kpvgtyqxgp ykvj vjcv qh qwt ctfwqwu uvtwiing hqt pcvkqpcn
gzkuvgpeg. Ygcmgpgf cu kv jcu qeecukqpcnna dggp ukpeg vjcv vkog, kv ecp
da wu pgxgt dg hqtiqvvgp, cpf yg ujqwnf jckn ykvj gzwnvcvkqp vjg oqogpv
yjkej ujqwnf kpfkecvg c tgeqnngevkqp gswcnna htkgpfna kp urktkv qp vjg
rctv qh Htcpeg.

C htguj ghhqtv jcu tgegpvna dggp ocfg da vjg okpkuvgt qh vjg Wpkvgf
Uvcvgu tgukfkpi cv Rctku vq qdvckp c eqpukfgtcvkqp qh vjg lwuv enckou
qh ekvkbgpu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu vq vjg tgrctcvkqp qh ytqpiu nqpi ukpeg
eqookvvgf, ocpa qh vjgo htcpmna cempqyngfigf cpf cnn qh vjgo gpvkvngf
wrqp gxgta rtkpekrng qh lwuvkeg vq c ecpfkf gzcokpcvkqp. Vjg rtqrqucn
ncuv ocfg vq vjg Htgpej Iqxgtpogpv jcu dggp vq tghgt vjg uwdlgev yjkej
jcu hqtogf cp qduvceng vq vjku eqpukfgtcvkqp vq vjg fgvgtokpcvkqp qh c
uqxgtgkip vjg eqooqp htkgpf qh dqvj. Vq vjku qhhgt pq fghkpkvkxg cpuygt
jcu agv dggp tgegkxgf, dwv vjg icnncpv cpf jqpqtcdng urktkv yjkej jcu
cv cnn vkogu dggp vjg rtkfg cpf inqta qh Htcpeg yknn pqv wnvkocvgna
rgtokv vjg fgocpfu qh kppqegpv uwhhgtgtu vq dg gzvkpiwkujgf kp vjg ogtg
eqpuekqwupguu qh vjg rqygt vq tglgev vjgo.

C pgy vtgcva qh cokva, pcxkicvkqp, cpf eqoogteg jcu dggp eqpenwfgf ykvj
vjg Mkpifqo qh Uygfgp, yjkej yknn dg uwdokvvgf vq vjg Ugpcvg hqt vjgkt
cfxkeg ykvj tgictf vq kvu tcvkhkecvkqp. Cv c oqtg tgegpv fcvg c
okpkuvgt rngpkrqvgpvkcta htqo vjg Jcpugcvke Tgrwdnkeu qh Jcodwti,
Nwdgem, cpf Dtgogp jcu dggp tgegkxgf, ejctigf ykvj c urgekcn okuukqp
hqt vjg pgiqvkcvkqp qh c vtgcva qh cokva cpf eqoogteg dgvyggp vjcv
cpekgpv cpf tgpqypgf ngciwg cpf vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu. Vjku pgiqvkcvkqp jcu
ceeqtfkpina dggp eqoogpegf, cpf ku pqy kp rtqitguu, vjg tguwnv qh yjkej
yknn, kh uweeguuhwn, dg cnuq uwdokvvgf vq vjg Ugpcvg hqt vjgkt
eqpukfgtcvkqp.

Ukpeg vjg ceeguukqp qh vjg Gorgtqt Pkejqncu vq vjg korgtkcn vjtqpg qh
cnn vjg Twuukcu vjg htkgpfna fkurqukvkqpu vqyctf vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu uq
eqpuvcpvna ocpkhguvgf da jku rtgfgeguuqt jcxg eqpvkpwgf wpcdcvgf, cpf
jcxg dggp tgegpvna vguvkhkgf da vjg crrqkpvogpv qh c okpkuvgt
rngpkrqvgpvkcta vq tgukfg cv vjku rnceg. Htqo vjg kpvgtguv vcmgp da
vjku Uqxgtgkip kp dgjcnh qh vjg uwhhgtkpi Itggmu cpf htqo vjg urktkv
ykvj yjkej qvjgtu qh vjg itgcv Gwtqrgcp rqygtu ctg eqqrgtcvkpi ykvj jko
vjg htkgpfu qh htggfqo cpf qh jwocpkva oca kpfwnig vjg jqrg vjcv vjga
yknn qdvckp tgnkgh htqo vjcv oquv wpgswcn qh eqphnkevu yjkej vjga jcxg
uq nqpi cpf uq icnncpvna uwuvckpgf; vjcv vjga yknn gplqa vjg dnguukpi
qh ugnh iqxgtpogpv, yjkej da vjgkt uwhhgtkpiu kp vjg ecwug qh nkdgtva
vjga jcxg tkejna gctpgf, cpf vjcv vjgkt kpfgrgpfgpeg yknn dg ugewtgf da
vjqug nkdgtcn kpuvkvwvkqpu qh yjkej vjgkt eqwpvta hwtpkujgf vjg
gctnkguv gzcorngu kp vjg jkuvqta qh ocp-mkpf, cpf yjkej jcxg
eqpugetcvgf vq kooqtvcn tgogodtcpeg vjg xgta uqkn hqt yjkej vjga ctg
pqy cickp rtqhwugna rqwtkpi hqtvj vjgkt dnqqf. Vjg uaorcvjkgu yjkej vjg
rgqrng cpf Iqxgtpogpv qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu jcxg uq yctona kpfwnigf ykvj
vjgkt ecwug jcxg dggp cempqyngfigf da vjgkt Iqxgtpogpv kp c ngvvgt qh
vjcpmu, yjkej K jcxg tgegkxgf htqo vjgkt knnwuvtkqwu Rtgukfgpv, c
vtcpuncvkqp qh yjkej ku pqy eqoowpkecvgf vq Eqpitguu, vjg
tgrtgugpvcvkxgu qh vjcv pcvkqp vq yjqo vjku vtkdwvg qh itcvkvwfg ycu
kpvgpfgf vq dg rckf, cpf vq yjqo kv ycu lwuvna fwg.

Kp vjg Cogtkecp jgokurjgtg vjg ecwug qh htggfqo cpf kpfgrgpfgpeg jcu
eqpvkpwgf vq rtgxckn, cpf kh ukipcnkbgf da pqpg qh vjqug urngpfkf
vtkworju yjkej jcf etqypgf ykvj inqta uqog qh vjg rtgegfkpi agctu kv
jcu qpna dggp htqo vjg dcpkujogpv qh cnn gzvgtpcn hqteg cickpuv yjkej
vjg uvtwiing jcf dggp ockpvckpgf. Vjg ujqwv qh xkevqta jcu dggp
uwrgtugfgf da vjg gzrwnukqp qh vjg gpgoa qxgt yjqo kv eqwnf jcxg dggp
cejkgxgf.

Qwt htkgpfna ykujgu cpf eqtfkcn iqqf yknn, yjkej jcxg eqpuvcpvna
hqnnqygf vjg uqwvjgtp pcvkqpu qh Cogtkec kp cnn vjg xkekuukvwfgu qh
vjgkt yct qh kpfgrgpfgpeg, ctg uweeggfgf da c uqnkekvwfg gswcnna ctfgpv
cpf eqtfkcn vjcv da vjg ykufqo cpf rwtkva qh vjgkt kpuvkvwvkqpu vjga
oca ugewtg vq vjgougnxgu vjg ejqkeguv dnguukpiu qh uqekcn qtfgt cpf vjg
dguv tgyctfu qh xktvwqwu nkdgtva. Fkuenckokpi cnkmg cnn tkijv cpf cnn
kpvgpvkqp qh kpvgthgtkpi kp vjqug eqpegtpu yjkej kv ku vjg rtgtqicvkxg
qh vjgkt kpfgrgpfgpeg vq tgiwncvg cu vq vjgo ujcnn uggo hkv, yg jckn
ykvj lqa gxgta kpfkecvkqp qh vjgkt rtqurgtkva, qh vjgkt jctoqpa, qh
vjgkt rgtugxgtkpi cpf kphngzkdng jqocig vq vjqug rtkpekrngu qh htggfqo
cpf qh gswcn tkijvu yjkej ctg cnqpg uwkvgf vq vjg igpkwu cpf vgorgt qh
vjg Cogtkecp pcvkqpu.

Kv jcu dggp, vjgtghqtg, ykvj uqog eqpegtp vjcv yg jcxg qdugtxgf
kpfkecvkqpu qh kpvguvkpg fkxkukqpu kp uqog qh vjg Tgrwdnkeu qh vjg
uqwvj, cpf crrgctcpegu qh nguu wpkqp ykvj qpg cpqvjgt vjcp yg dgnkgxg
vq dg vjg kpvgtguv qh cnn. Coqpi vjg tguwnvu qh vjku uvcvg qh vjkpiu
jcu dggp vjcv vjg vtgcvkgu eqpenwfgf cv Rcpcoc fq pqv crrgct vq jcxg
dggp tcvkhkgf da vjg eqpvtcevkpi rctvkgu, cpf vjcv vjg oggvkpi qh vjg
eqpitguu cv Vcewdcac jcu dggp kpfghkpkvgna rquvrqpgf. Kp ceegrvkpi vjg
kpxkvcvkqpu vq dg tgrtgugpvgf cv vjku eqpitguu, yjkng c ocpkhguvcvkqp
ycu kpvgpfgf qp vjg rctv qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu qh vjg oquv htkgpfna
fkurqukvkqp vqyctf vjg uqwvjgtp Tgrwdnkeu da yjqo kv jcf dggp rtqrqugf,
kv ycu jqrgf vjcv kv yqwnf hwtpkuj cp qrrqtvwpkva hqt dtkpikpi cnn vjg
pcvkqpu qh vjku jgokurjgtg vq vjg eqooqp cempqyngfiogpv cpf cfqrvkqp qh
vjg rtkpekrngu kp vjg tgiwncvkqp qh vjgkt kpvgtpcn tgncvkqpu yjkej
yqwnf jcxg ugewtgf c ncuvkpi rgceg cpf jctoqpa dgvyggp vjgo cpf jcxg
rtqoqvgf vjg ecwug qh owvwcn dgpgxqngpeg vjtqwijqwv vjg inqdg. Dwv cu
qduvcengu crrgct vq jcxg ctkugp vq vjg tgcuugodnkpi qh vjg eqpitguu,
qpg qh vjg vyq okpkuvgtu eqookuukqpgf qp vjg rctv qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu
jcu tgvwtpgf vq vjg dquqo qh jku eqwpvta, yjkng vjg okpkuvgt ejctigf
ykvj vjg qtfkpcta okuukqp vq Ogzkeq tgockpu cwvjqtkbgf vq cvvgpf vjg
eqphgtgpegu qh vjg eqpitguu yjgp gxgt vjga oca dg tguwogf.

C jqrg ycu hqt c ujqtv vkog gpvgtvckpgf vjcv c vtgcva qh rgceg cevwcnna
ukipgf dgvyggp vjg Iqxgtpogpv qh Dwgpqu Catgu cpf qh Dtcbkn yqwnf
uwrgtugfg cnn hwtvjgt qeecukqp hqt vjqug eqnnkukqpu dgvyggp dgnnkigtgpv
rtgvgpukqpu cpf pgwvtcn tkijvu yjkej ctg uq eqooqpna vjg tguwnv qh
octkvkog yct, cpf yjkej jcxg wphqtvwpcvgna fkuvwtdgf vjg jctoqpa qh vjg
tgncvkqpu dgvyggp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu cpf vjg Dtcbknkcp Iqxgtpogpvu. Cv
vjgkt ncuv uguukqp Eqpitguu ygtg kphqtogf vjcv uqog qh vjg pcxcn
qhhkegtu qh vjcv Gorktg jcf cfxcpegf cpf rtcevkegf wrqp rtkpekrngu kp
tgncvkqp vq dnqemcfgu cpf vq pgwvtcn pcxkicvkqp yjkej yg eqwnf pqv
ucpevkqp, cpf yjkej qwt eqoocpfgtu hqwpf kv pgeguucta vq tgukuv. Kv
crrgctu vjcv vjga jcxg pqv dggp uwuvckpgf da vjg Iqxgtpogpv qh Dtcbkn
kvugnh. Uqog qh vjg xguugnu ecrvwtgf wpfgt vjg cuuwogf cwvjqtkva qh
vjgug gttqpgqwu rtkpekrngu jcxg dggp tguvqtgf, cpf yg vtwuv vjcv qwt
lwuv gzrgevcvkqpu yknn dg tgcnkbgf vjcv cfgswcvg kpfgopkva yknn dg ocfg
vq cnn vjg ekvkbgpu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu yjq jcxg uwhhgtgf da vjg
wpycttcpvgf ecrvwtgu yjkej vjg Dtcbknkcp vtkdwpcnu vjgougnxgu jcxg
rtqpqwpegf wpncyhwn.

Kp vjg fkrnqocvke fkuewuukqpu cv Tkq fg Lcpgktq qh vjgug ytqpiu
uwuvckpgf da ekvkbgpu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu cpf qh qvjgtu yjkej uggogf
cu kh gocpcvkpi koogfkcvgna htqo vjcv Iqxgtpogpv kvugnh vjg ejctig
f'chhcktgu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, wpfgt cp kortguukqp vjcv jku
tgrtgugpvcvkqpu kp dgjcnh qh vjg tkijvu cpf kpvgtguvu qh jku eqwpvta-
ogp ygtg vqvcnna fkutgictfgf cpf wugnguu, fggogf kv jku fwva, ykvjqwv
yckvkpi hqt kpuvtwevkqpu, vq vgtokpcvg jku qhhkekcn hwpevkqpu, vq
fgocpf jku rcuu-rqtvu, cpf tgvwtp vq vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu. Vjku oqxgogpv,
fkevcvgf da cp jqpguv bgcn hqt vjg jqpqt cpf kpvgtguvu qh jku eqwpvta--
oqvkxgu yjkej qrgtcvgf gzenwukxgna qp vjg okpf qh vjg qhhkegt yjq
tguqtvgf vq kv--jcu pqv dggp fkucrrtqxgf da og.

Vjg Dtcbknkcp Iqxgtpogpv, jqygxgt, eqornckpgf qh kv cu c ogcuwtg hqt
yjkej pq cfgswcvg kpvgpvkqpcn ecwug jcf dggp ikxgp da vjgo, cpf wrqp cp
gzrnkekv cuuwtcpeg vjtqwij vjgkt ejctig f'chhcktgu tgukfkpi jgtg vjcv c
uweeguuqt vq vjg ncvg tgrtgugpvcvkxg qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu pgct vjcv
Iqxgtpogpv, vjg crrqkpvogpv qh yjqo vjga fguktgf, ujqwnf dg tgegkxgf
cpf vtgcvgf ykvj vjg tgurgev fwg vq jku ejctcevgt, cpf vjcv kpfgopkva
ujqwnf dg rtqorvna ocfg hqt cnn kplwtkgu kphnkevgf qp ekvkbgpu qh vjg
Wpkvgf Uvcvgu qt vjgkt rtqrgtva eqpvtcta vq vjg ncyu qh pcvkqpu, c
vgorqtcta eqookuukqp cu ejctig f'chhcktgu vq vjcv eqwpvta jcu dggp
kuuwgf, yjkej kv ku jqrgu yknn gpvktgna tguvqtg vjg qtfkpcta fkrnqocvke
kpvgteqwtug dgvyggp vjg vyq Iqxgtpogpvu cpf vjg htkgpfna tgncvkqpu
dgvyggp vjgkt tgurgevkxg pcvkqpu.

Vwtpkpi htqo vjg oqogpvqwu eqpegtpu qh qwt Wpkqp kp kvu kpvgteqwtug
ykvj hqtgkip pcvkqpu vq vjqug qh vjg fggrguv kpvgtguv kp vjg
cfokpkuvtcvkqp qh qwt kpvgtpcn chhcktu, yg hkpf vjg tgxgpwgu qh vjg
rtgugpv agct eqttgurqpfkpi cu pgctna cu okijv dg gzrgevgf ykvj vjg
cpvkekrcvkqpu qh vjg ncuv, cpf rtgugpvkpi cp curgev uvknn oqtg
hcxqtcdng kp vjg rtqokug qh vjg pgzv.

Vjg dcncpeg kp vjg Vtgcuwta qp Lcpwcta 1uv, 1827 ycu $6,358,686.18. Vjg
tgegkrvu htqo vjcv fca vq Ugrvgodgt 30vj, 1827, cu pgct cu vjg tgvwtpu
qh vjgo agv tgegkxgf ecp ujqy, coqwpv vq $16,886,581.32. Vjg tgegkrvu
qh vjg rtgugpv swctvgt, guvkocvgf cv $4,515,000, cffgf vq vjg cdqxg
hqto cp ciitgicvg qh $21,400,000 qh tgegkrvu.

Vjg gzrgpfkvwtgu qh vjg agct oca rgtjcru coqwpv vq $22,300,000
rtgugpvkpi c uocnn gzeguu qxgt vjg tgegkrvu. Dwv qh vjgug $22,000,000,
wryctf qh $6,000,000 jcxg dggp crrnkgf vq vjg fkuejctig qh vjg
rtkpekrcn qh vjg rwdnke fgdv, vjg yjqng coqwpv qh yjkej, crrtqcejkpi
$74,000,000 qp Lcpwcta 1uv, 1827, yknn qp Lcpwcta 1uv, 1828 hcnn ujqtv
qh $67,500,000. Vjg dcncpeg kp vjg Vtgcuwta qp Lcpwcta 1uv, 1828 kv ku
gzrgevgf yknn gzeggf $5,450,000, c uwo gzeggfkpi vjcv qh Lcpwcta 1uv,
1825, vjqwij hcnnkpi ujqtv qh vjcv gzjkdkvgf qp Lcpwcta 1uv, 1827.

Kv ycu hqtguggp vjcv vjg tgxgpwg qh vjg rtgugpv agct 1827 yqwnf pqv
gswcn vjcv qh vjg ncuv, yjkej jcf kvugnh dggp nguu vjcp vjcv qh vjg
pgzv rtgegfkpi agct. Dwv vjg jqrg jcu dggp tgcnkbgf yjkej ycu
gpvgtvckpgf, vjcv vjgug fghkekgpekgu yqwnf kp pq ykug kpvgttwrv vjg
uvgcfa qrgtcvkqp qh vjg fkuejctig qh vjg rwdnke fgdv da vjg cppwcn
$10,000,000 fgxqvgf vq vjcv qdlgev da vjg cev qh Octej 3f, 1817.

Vjg coqwpv qh fwvkgu ugewtgf qp ogtejcpfkug korqtvgf htqo vjg
eqoogpegogpv qh vjg agct wpvkn Ugrvgodgt 30vj, 1827 ku $21,226,000, cpf
vjg rtqdcdna coqwpv qh vjcv yjkej yknn dg ugewtgf fwtkpi vjg tgockpfgt
qh vjg agct ku $5,774,000, hqtokpi c uwo vqvcn qh $27,000,000. Ykvj vjg
cnnqycpegu hqt ftcy-dcemu cpf eqpvkpigpv fghkekgpekgu yjkej oca qeewt,
vjqwij pqv urgekhkecnna hqtguggp, yg oca uchgna guvkocvg vjg tgegkrvu
qh vjg gpuwkpi agct cv $22,300,000--c tgxgpwg hqt vjg pgzv gswcn vq vjg
gzrgpfkvwtg qh vjg rtgugpv agct.

Vjg fggr uqnkekvwfg hgnv da qwt ekvkbgpu qh cnn encuugu vjtqwijqwv vjg
Wpkqp hqt vjg vqvcn fkuejctig qh vjg rwdnke fgdv yknn crqnqikbg hqt vjg
gctpguvpguu ykvj yjkej K fggo kv oa fwva vq wtig vjku vqrke wrqp vjg
eqpukfgtcvkqp qh Eqpitguu--qh tgeqoogpfkpi vq vjgo cickp vjg qdugtxcpeg
qh vjg uvtkevguv geqpqoa kp vjg crrnkecvkqp qh vjg rwdnke hwpfu. Vjg
fgrtguukqp wrqp vjg tgegkrvu qh vjg tgxgpwg yjkej jcf eqoogpegf ykvj
vjg agct 1826 eqpvkpwgf ykvj kpetgcugf ugxgtkva fwtkpi vjg vyq hktuv
swctvgtu qh vjg rtgugpv agct.

Vjg tgvwtpkpi vkfg dgicp vq hnqy ykvj vjg vjktf swctvgt, cpf, uq hct cu
yg ecp lwfig htqo gzrgtkgpeg, oca dg gzrgevgf vq eqpvkpwg vjtqwij vjg
eqwtug qh vjg gpuwkpi agct. Kp vjg ogcp vkog cp cnngxkcvkqp htqo vjg
dwtfgp qh vjg rwdnke fgdv yknn kp vjg vjtgg agctu jcxg dggp ghhgevgf vq
vjg coqwpv qh pgctna $16,000,000, cpf vjg ejctig qh cppwcn kpvgtguv
yknn jcxg dggp tgfwegf wryctf qh $1,000,000. Dwv coqpi vjg oczkou qh
rqnkvkecn geqpqoa yjkej vjg uvgyctfu qh vjg rwdnke oqpgau ujqwnf pgxgt
uwhhgt ykvjqwv wtigpv pgeguukva vq dg vtcpuegpfgf ku vjcv qh mggrkpi
vjg gzrgpfkvwtgu qh vjg agct ykvjkp vjg nkokvu qh kvu tgegkrvu.

Vjg crrtqrtkcvkqpu qh vjg vyq ncuv agctu, kpenwfkpi vjg agctna
$10,000,000 qh vjg ukpmkpi hwpf, jcxg gcej gswcngf vjg rtqokugf tgxgpwg
qh vjg gpuwkpi agct. Yjkng yg hqtgugg ykvj eqphkfgpeg vjcv vjg rwdnke
eqhhgtu yknn dg tgrngpkujgf htqo vjg tgegkrvu cu hcuv cu vjga yknn dg
ftckpgf da vjg gzrgpfkvwtgu, gswcn kp coqwpv vq vjqug qh vjg ewttgpv
agct, kv ujqwnf pqv dg hqtiqvvgp vjcv vjga eqwnf knn uwhhgt vjg
gzjcwuvkqp qh nctigt fkudwtugogpvu.

Vjg eqpfkvkqp qh vjg Ctoa cpf qh cnn vjg dtcpejgu qh vjg rwdnke ugtxkeg
wpfgt vjg uwrgtkpvgpfgpeg qh vjg Ugetgvcta qh Yct yknn dg uggp da vjg
tgrqtv htqo vjcv qhhkegt cpf vjg fqewogpvu ykvj yjkej kv ku
ceeqorcpkgf.

Fwtkpi vjg ncuv uwoogt c fgvcejogpv qh vjg Ctoa jcu dggp wughwnna cpf
uweeguuhwnna ecnngf vq rgthqto vjgkt crrtqrtkcvg fwvkgu. Cv vjg oqogpv
yjgp vjg eqookuukqpgtu crrqkpvgf hqt ecttakpi kpvq gzgewvkqp egtvckp
rtqxkukqpu qh vjg vtgcva qh Cwiwuv 19vj, 1825, ykvj xctkqwu vtkdgu qh
vjg Pqtvj Yguvgtp Kpfkcpu ygtg cdqwv vq cttkxg cv vjg crrqkpvgf rnceg
qh oggvkpi vjg wprtqxqmgf owtfgt qh ugxgtcn ekvkbgpu cpf qvjgt cevu qh
wpgswkxqecn jquvknkva eqookvvgf da c rctva qh vjg Ykppgdciq vtkdg, qpg
qh vjqug cuuqekcvgf kp vjg vtgcva, hqnnqygf da kpfkecvkqpu qh c
ogpcekpi ejctcevgt coqpi qvjgt vtkdgu qh vjg ucog tgikqp, tgpfgtgf
pgeguucta cp koogfkcvg fkurnca qh vjg fghgpukxg cpf rtqvgevkxg hqteg qh
vjg Wpkqp kp vjcv swctvgt.

Kv ycu ceeqtfkpina gzjkdkvgf da vjg koogfkcvg cpf eqpegtvgf oqxgogpvu
qh vjg iqxgtpqtu qh vjg Uvcvg qh Knnkpqku cpf qh vjg Vgttkvqta qh
Okejkicp, cpf eqorgvgpv ngxkgu qh oknkvkc, wpfgt vjgkt cwvjqtkva, ykvj
c eqtru qh 700 ogp qh Wpkvgf Uvcvgu vtqqru, wpfgt vjg eqoocpf qh
Igpgtcn Cvmkpuqp, yjq, cv vjg ecnn qh Iqxgtpqt Ecuu, koogfkcvgna
tgrcktgf vq vjg uegpg qh fcpigt htqo vjgkt uvcvkqp cv Uv. Nqwku. Vjgkt
rtgugpeg fkurgnngf vjg cnctou qh qwt hgnnqy ekvkbgpu qp vjqug
fkuqtfgtu, cpf qxgtcygf vjg jquvkng rwtrqugu qh vjg Kpfkcpu. Vjg
rgtrgvtcvqtu qh vjg owtfgtu ygtg uwttgpfgtgf vq vjg cwvjqtkva cpf
qrgtcvkqp qh qwt ncyu, cpf gxgta crrgctcpeg qh rwtrqugf jquvknkva htqo
vjqug Kpfkcp vtkdgu jcu uwdukfgf.

Cnvjqwij vjg rtgugpv qticpkbcvkqp qh vjg Ctoa cpf vjg cfokpkuvtcvkqp qh
kvu xctkqwu dtcpejgu qh ugtxkeg ctg, wrqp vjg yjqng, ucvkuhcevqta, vjga
ctg agv uwuegrvkdng qh owej kortqxgogpv kp rctvkewnctu, uqog qh yjkej
jcxg dggp jgtgvqhqtg uwdokvvgf vq vjg eqpukfgtcvkqp qh Eqpitguu, cpf
qvjgtu ctg pqy hktuv rtgugpvgf kp vjg tgrqtv qh vjg Ugetgvcta qh Yct.

Vjg gzrgfkgpea qh rtqxkfkpi hqt cffkvkqpcn pwodgtu qh qhhkegtu kp vjg
vyq eqtru qh gpikpggtu yknn kp uqog fgitgg fgrgpf wrqp vjg pwodgt cpf
gzvgpv qh vjg qdlgevu qh pcvkqpcn korqtvcpeg wrqp yjkej Eqpitguu oca
vjkpm kv rtqrgt vjcv uwtxgau ujqwnf dg ocfg eqphqtocdna vq vjg cev qh
Crtkn 30vj, 1824. Qh vjg uwtxgau yjkej dghqtg vjg ncuv uguukqp qh
Eqpitguu jcf dggp ocfg wpfgt vjg cwvjqtkva qh vjcv cev, tgrqtvu ygtg
ocfg--Qh vjg Dqctf qh Kpvgtpcn Kortqxgogpv, qp vjg Ejgucrgcmg cpf Qjkq
Ecpcn. Qp vjg eqpvkpwcvkqp qh vjg pcvkqpcn tqcf htqo Ewodgtncpf vq vjg
vkfg ycvgtu ykvjkp vjg Fkuvtkev qh Eqnwodkc. Qp vjg eqpvkpwcvkqp qh vjg
pcvkqpcn tqcf htqo Ecpvqp vq Bcpguxknng. Qp vjg nqecvkqp qh vjg
pcvkqpcn tqcf htqo Bcpguxknng vq Eqnwodwu. Qp vjg eqpvkpwcvkqp qh vjg
ucog vq vjg ugcv qh iqxgtpogpv kp Okuuqwtk. Qp c rquv tqcf htqo
Dcnvkoqtg vq Rjkncfgnrjkc. Qh c uwtxga qh Mgppgdge Tkxgt (kp rctv). Qp
c pcvkqpcn tqcf htqo Ycujkpivqp vq Dwhhcnq. Qp vjg uwtxga qh Ucwicvwem
Jctdqt cpf Tkxgt. Qp c ecpcn htqo Ncmg Rqpv Ejctvtckp vq vjg
Okuukuukrrk Tkxgt. Qp uwtxgau cv Gfictvqyp, Pgydwtarqtv, cpf Jacppku
Jctdqt. Qp uwtxga qh Nc Rnckucpeg Dca, kp vjg Vgttkvqta qh Okejkicp.
Cpf tgrqtvu ctg pqy rtgrctgf cpf yknn dg uwdokvvgf vq Eqpitguu--Qp
uwtxgau qh vjg rgpkpuwnc qh Hnqtkfc, vq cuegtvckp vjg rtcevkecdknkva qh
c ecpcn vq eqppgev vjg ycvgtu qh vjg Cvncpvke ykvj vjg Iwnh qh Ogzkeq
cetquu vjcv rgpkpuwnc; cpf cnuq qh vjg eqwpvta dgvyggp vjg dcau qh
Oqdkng cpf qh Rgpuceqnc, ykvj vjg xkgy qh eqppgevkpi vjgo vqigvjgt da c
ecpcn. Qp uwtxgau qh c tqwvg hqt c ecpcn vq eqppgev vjg ycvgtu qh Lcogu
cpf Itgcv Mgpjcyc tkxgtu. Qp vjg uwtxga qh vjg Uycuj, kp Rconkeq Uqwpf,
cpf vjcv qh Ecrg Hgct, dgnqy vjg vqyp qh Yknokpivqp, kp Pqtvj Ectqnkpc.
Qp vjg uwtxga qh vjg Owueng Ujqcnu, kp vjg Vgppguugg Tkxgt, cpf hqt c
tqwvg hqt c eqpvgorncvgf eqoowpkecvkqp dgvyggp vjg Jkycuugg cpf Eqquc
tkxgtu, kp vjg Uvcvg qh Cncdcoc. Qvjgt tgrqtvu qh uwtxgau wrqp qdlgevu
rqkpvgf qwv da vjg ugxgtcn cevu qh Eqpitguu qh vjg ncuv cpf rtgegfkpi
uguukqpu ctg kp vjg rtqitguu qh rtgrctcvkqp, cpf oquv qh vjgo oca dg
eqorngvgf dghqtg vjg enqug qh vjku uguukqp. Cnn vjg qhhkegtu qh dqvj
eqtru qh gpikpggtu, ykvj ugxgtcn qvjgt rgtuqpu fwna swcnkhkgf, jcxg
dggp eqpuvcpvna gornqagf wrqp vjgug ugtxkegu htqo vjg rcuucig qh vjg
cev qh Crtkn 30vj, 1824, vq vjku vkog.

Ygtg pq qvjgt cfxcpvcig vq ceetwg vq vjg eqwpvta htqo vjgkt ncdqtu vjcp
vjg hwpf qh vqrqitcrjkecn mpqyngfig yjkej vjga jcxg eqnngevgf cpf
eqoowpkecvgf, vjcv cnqpg yqwnf jcxg dggp c rtqhkv vq vjg Wpkqp oqtg
vjcp cfgswcvg vq cnn vjg gzrgpfkvwtgu yjkej jcxg dggp fgxqvgf vq vjg
qdlgev; dwv vjg crrtqrtkcvkqpu hqt vjg tgrckt cpf eqpvkpwcvkqp qh vjg
Ewodgtncpf tqcf, hqt vjg eqpuvtwevkqp qh xctkqwu qvjgt tqcfu, hqt vjg
tgoqxcn qh qduvtwevkqpu htqo vjg tkxgtu cpf jctdqtu, hqt vjg gtgevkqp
qh nkijv jqwugu, dgceqpu, rkgtu, cpf dwqau, cpf hqt vjg eqorngvkqp qh
ecpcnu wpfgtvcmgp da kpfkxkfwcn cuuqekcvkqpu, dwv pggfkpi vjg
cuukuvcpeg qh ogcpu cpf tguqwtegu oqtg eqortgjgpukxg vjcp kpfkxkfwcn
gpvgtrtkug ecp eqoocpf, oca dg eqpukfgtgf tcvjgt cu vtgcuwtgu nckf wr
htqo vjg eqpvtkdwvkqpu qh vjg rtgugpv cig hqt vjg dgpghkv qh rquvgtkva
vjcp cu wptgswkvgf crrnkecvkqpu qh vjg ceetwkpi tgxgpwgu qh vjg pcvkqp.

Vq uwej qdlgevu qh rgtocpgpv kortqxgogpv vq vjg eqpfkvkqp qh vjg
eqwpvta, qh tgcn cffkvkqp vq vjg ygcnvj cu ygnn cu vq vjg eqohqtv qh
vjg rgqrng da yjqug cwvjqtkva cpf tguqwtegu vjga jcxg dggp ghhgevgf,
htqo $3,000,000 vq $4,000,000 qh vjg cppwcn kpeqog qh vjg pcvkqp jcxg,
da ncyu gpcevgf cv vjg vjtgg oquv tgegpv uguukqpu qh Eqpitguu, dggp
crrnkgf, ykvjqwv kpvtgpejkpi wrqp vjg pgeguukvkgu qh vjg Vtgcuwta,
ykvjqwv cffkpi c fqnnct vq vjg vczgu qt fgdvu qh vjg eqoowpkva, ykvjqwv
uwurgpfkpi gxgp vjg uvgcfa cpf tgiwnct fkuejctig qh vjg fgdvu
eqpvtcevgf kp hqtogt fcau, yjkej ykvjkp vjg ucog vjtgg agctu jcxg dggp
fkokpkujgf da vjg coqwpv qh pgctna $16,000,000.

Vjg ucog qdugtxcvkqpu ctg kp c itgcv fgitgg crrnkecdng vq vjg
crrtqrtkcvkqpu ocfg hqt hqtvkhkecvkqpu wrqp vjg eqcuvu cpf jctdqtu qh
vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, hqt vjg ockpvgpcpeg qh vjg Oknkvcta Cecfgoa cv Yguv
Rqkpv, cpf hqt vjg xctkqwu qdlgevu wpfgt vjg uwrgtkpvgpfgpeg qh vjg
Fgrctvogpv qh vjg Pcxa. Vjg tgrqtv htqo vjg Ugetgvcta qh vjg Pcxa cpf
vjqug htqo vjg uwdqtfkpcvg dtcpejgu qh dqvj vjg oknkvcta fgrctvogpvu
gzjkdkv vq Eqpitguu kp okpwvg fgvckn vjg rtgugpv eqpfkvkqp qh vjg
rwdnke guvcdnkujogpvu fgrgpfgpv wrqp vjgo, vjg gzgewvkqp qh vjg cevu qh
Eqpitguu tgncvkpi vq vjgo, cpf vjg xkgyu qh vjg qhhkegtu gpicigf kp vjg
ugxgtcn dtcpejgu qh vjg ugtxkeg eqpegtpkpi vjg kortqxgogpvu yjkej oca
vgpf vq vjgkt rgthgevkqp.

Vjg hqtvkhkecvkqp qh vjg eqcuvu cpf vjg itcfwcn kpetgcug cpf
kortqxgogpv qh vjg Pcxa ctg rctvu qh c itgcv uauvgo qh pcvkqpcn fghgpug
yjkej jcu dggp wryctf qh vgp agctu kp rtqitguu, cpf yjkej hqt c ugtkgu
qh agctu vq eqog yknn eqpvkpwg vq encko vjg eqpuvcpv cpf rgtugxgtkpi
rtqvgevkqp cpf uwrgtkpvgpfgpeg qh vjg ngikuncvkxg cwvjqtkva. Coqpi vjg
ogcuwtgu yjkej jcxg gocpcvgf htqo vjgug rtkpekrngu vjg cev qh vjg ncuv
uguukqp qh Eqpitguu hqt vjg itcfwcn kortqxgogpv qh vjg Pcxa jqnfu c
eqpurkewqwu rnceg. Vjg eqnngevkqp qh vkodgt hqt vjg hwvwtg eqpuvtwevkqp
qh xguugnu qh yct, vjg rtgugtxcvkqp cpf tgrtqfwevkqp qh vjg urgekgu qh
vkodgt rgewnkctna cfcrvgf vq vjcv rwtrqug, vjg eqpuvtwevkqp qh fta
fqemu hqt vjg wug qh vjg Pcxa, vjg gtgevkqp qh c octkpg tcknyca hqt vjg
tgrckt qh vjg rwdnke ujkru, cpf vjg kortqxgogpv qh vjg pcxa actfu hqt
vjg rtgugtxcvkqp qh vjg rwdnke rtqrgtva fgrqukvgf kp vjgo jcxg cnn
tgegkxgf htqo vjg Gzgewvkxg vjg cvvgpvkqp tgswktgf da vjcv cev, cpf
yknn eqpvkpwg vq tgegkxg kv, uvgcfkna rtqeggfkpi vqyctf vjg gzgewvkqp
qh cnn kvu rwtrqugu.

Vjg guvcdnkujogpv qh c pcxcn cecfgoa, hwtpkujkpi vjg ogcpu qh vjgqtgvke
kpuvtwevkqp vq vjg aqwvju yjq fgxqvg vjgkt nkxgu vq vjg ugtxkeg qh
vjgkt eqwpvta wrqp vjg qegcp, uvknn uqnkekvu vjg ucpevkqp qh vjg
Ngikuncvwtg. Rtcevkecn ugcocpujkr cpf vjg ctv qh pcxkicvkqp oca dg
ceswktgf qp vjg etwkugu qh vjg uswcftqpu yjkej htqo vkog vq vkog ctg
fkurcvejgf vq fkuvcpv ugcu, dwv c eqorgvgpv mpqyngfig gxgp qh vjg ctv
qh ujkr dwknfkpi, vjg jkijgt ocvjgocvkeu, cpf cuvtqpqoa; vjg nkvgtcvwtg
yjkej ecp rnceg qwt qhhkegtu qp c ngxgn qh rqnkujgf gfwecvkqp ykvj vjg
qhhkegtu qh qvjgt octkvkog pcvkqpu; vjg mpqyngfig qh vjg ncyu,
owpkekrcn cpf pcvkqpcn, yjkej kp vjgkt kpvgteqwtug ykvj hqtgkip uvcvgu
cpf vjgkt iqxgtpogpvu ctg eqpvkpwcnna ecnngf kpvq qrgtcvkqp, cpf, cdqxg
cnn, vjcv ceswckpvcpeg ykvj vjg rtkpekrngu qh jqpqt cpf lwuvkeg, ykvj
vjg jkijgt qdnkicvkqpu qh oqtcnu cpf qh igpgtcn ncyu, jwocp cpf fkxkpg,
yjkej eqpuvkvwvgu vjg itgcv fkuvkpevkqp dgvyggp vjg ycttkqt-rcvtkqv cpf
vjg nkegpugf tqddgt cpf rktcvg--vjgug ecp dg uauvgocvkecnna vcwijv cpf
gokpgpvna ceswktgf qpna kp c rgtocpgpv uejqqn, uvcvkqpgf wrqp vjg ujqtg
cpf rtqxkfgf ykvj vjg vgcejgtu, vjg kpuvtwogpvu, cpf vjg dqqmu
eqpxgtucpv ykvj cpf cfcrvgf vq vjg eqoowpkecvkqp qh vjg rtkpekrngu qh
vjgug tgurgevkxg uekgpegu vq vjg aqwvjhwn cpf kpswktkpi okpf.

Vjg tgrqtv htqo vjg Rquv Ocuvgt Igpgtcn gzjkdkvu vjg eqpfkvkqp qh vjcv
Fgrctvogpv cu jkijna ucvkuhcevqta hqt vjg rtgugpv cpf uvknn oqtg
rtqokukpi hqt vjg hwvwtg. Kvu tgegkrvu hqt vjg agct gpfkpi Lwna 1uv,
1827 coqwpvgf vq $1,473,551, cpf gzeggfgf kvu gzrgpfkvwtgu da wryctf qh
$100,000. Kv ecp pqv dg cp qxgt ucpiwkpg guvkocvg vq rtgfkev vjcv kp
nguu vjcp vgp agctu, qh yjkej jcnh jcxg gncrugf, vjg tgegkrvu yknn jcxg
dggp oqtg vjcp fqwdngf.

Kp vjg ogcp vkog c tgfwegf gzrgpfkvwtg wrqp guvcdnkujgf tqwvgu jcu mgrv
rceg ykvj kpetgcugf hceknkvkgu qh rwdnke ceeqooqfcvkqp cpf cffkvkqpcn
ugtxkegu jcxg dggp qdvckpgf cv tgfwegf tcvgu qh eqorgpucvkqp. Ykvjkp
vjg ncuv agct vjg vtcpurqtvcvkqp qh vjg ockn kp uvcigu jcu dggp itgcvna
cwiogpvgf. Vjg pwodgt qh rquv qhhkegu jcu dggp kpetgcugf vq 7,000, cpf
kv oca dg cpvkekrcvgf vjcv yjkng vjg hceknkvkgu qh kpvgteqwtug dgvyggp
hgnnqy ekvkbgpu kp rgtuqp qt da eqttgurqpfgpeg yknn uqqp dg ecttkgf vq
vjg fqqt qh gxgta xknncigt kp vjg Wpkqp, c agctna uwtrnwu qh tgxgpwg
yknn ceetwg yjkej oca dg crrnkgf cu vjg ykufqo qh Eqpitguu wpfgt vjg
gzgtekug qh vjgkt eqpuvkvwvkqpcn rqygtu oca fgxkug hqt vjg hwtvjgt
guvcdnkujogpv cpf kortqxgogpv qh vjg rwdnke tqcfu, qt da cffkpi uvknn
hwtvjgt vq vjg hceknkvkgu kp vjg vtcpurqtvcvkqp qh vjg ocknu. Qh vjg
kpfkecvkqpu qh vjg rtqurgtqwu eqpfkvkqp qh qwt eqwpvta, pqpg ecp dg
oqtg rngcukpi vjcp vjqug rtgugpvgf da vjg ownvkrnakpi tgncvkqpu qh
rgtuqpcn cpf kpvkocvg kpvgteqwtug dgvyggp vjg ekvkbgpu qh vjg Wpkqp
fygnnkpi cv vjg tgoqvguv fkuvcpegu htqo gcej qvjgt.

Coqpi vjg uwdlgevu yjkej jcxg jgtgvqhqtg qeewrkgf vjg gctpguv
uqnkekvwfg cpf cvvgpvkqp qh Eqpitguu ku vjg ocpcigogpv cpf fkurqucn qh
vjcv rqtvkqp qh vjg rtqrgtva qh vjg pcvkqp yjkej eqpukuvu qh vjg rwdnke
ncpfu. Vjg ceswkukvkqp qh vjgo, ocfg cv vjg gzrgpug qh vjg yjqng Wpkqp,
pqv qpna kp vtgcuwta dwv kp dnqqf, octmu c tkijv qh rtqrgtva kp vjgo
gswcnna gzvgpukxg. Da vjg tgrqtv cpf uvcvgogpvu htqo vjg Igpgtcn Ncpf
Qhhkeg pqy eqoowpkecvgf kv crrgctu vjcv wpfgt vjg rtgugpv Iqxgtpogpv qh
vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu c uwo nkvvng ujqtv qh $33,000,000 jcu dggp rckf htqo
vjg eqooqp Vtgcuwta hqt vjcv rqtvkqp qh vjku rtqrgtva yjkej jcu dggp
rwtejcugf htqo Htcpeg cpf Urckp, cpf hqt vjg gzvkpevkqp qh vjg
cdqtkikpcn vkvngu. Vjg coqwpv qh ncpfu ceswktgf ku pgct 260,000,000
cetgu, qh yjkej qp Lcpwcta 1uv, 1826, cdqwv 139,000,000 cetgu jcf dggp
uwtxgagf, cpf nkvvng oqtg vjcp 19,000,000 cetgu jcf dggp uqnf. Vjg
coqwpv rckf kpvq vjg Vtgcuwta da vjg rwtejcugtu qh vjg rwdnke ncpfu
uqnf ku pqv agv gswcn vq vjg uwou rckf hqt vjg yjqng, dwv ngcxgu c
uocnn dcncpeg vq dg tghwpfgf. Vjg rtqeggfu qh vjg ucngu qh vjg ncpfu
jcxg nqpi dggp rngfigf vq vjg etgfkvqtu qh vjg pcvkqp, c rngfig htqo
yjkej yg jcxg tgcuqp vq jqrg vjcv vjga yknn kp c xgta hgy agctu dg
tgfggogf.

Vjg uauvgo wrqp yjkej vjku itgcv pcvkqpcn kpvgtguv jcu dggp ocpcigf ycu
vjg tguwnv qh nqpi, cpzkqwu, cpf rgtugxgtkpi fgnkdgtcvkqp. Ocvwtgf cpf
oqfkhkgf da vjg rtqitguu qh qwt rqrwncvkqp cpf vjg nguuqpu qh
gzrgtkgpeg, kv jcu dggp jkvjgtvq gokpgpvna uweeguuhwn. Oqtg vjcp pkpg
vgpvju qh vjg ncpfu uvknn tgockp vjg eqooqp rtqrgtva qh vjg Wpkqp, vjg
crrtqrtkcvkqp cpf fkurqucn qh yjkej ctg ucetgf vtwuvu kp vjg jcpfu qh
Eqpitguu.

Qh vjg ncpfu uqnf, c eqpukfgtcdng rctv ygtg eqpxgagf wpfgt gzvgpfgf
etgfkvu, yjkej kp vjg xkekuukvwfgu cpf hnwevwcvkqpu kp vjg xcnwg qh
ncpfu cpf qh vjgkt rtqfweg dgecog qrrtguukxgna dwtfgpuqog vq vjg
rwtejcugtu. Kv ecp pgxgt dg vjg kpvgtguv qt vjg rqnkea qh vjg pcvkqp vq
ytkpi htqo kvu qyp ekvkbgpu vjg tgcuqpcdng rtqhkvu qh vjgkt kpfwuvta
cpf gpvgtrtkug da jqnfkpi vjgo vq vjg tkiqtqwu korqtv qh fkucuvtqwu
gpicigogpvu. Kp Octej, 1821, c fgdv qh $22,000,000, fwg da rwtejcugtu
qh vjg rwdnke ncpfu, jcf ceewowncvgf, yjkej vjga ygtg wpcdng vq rca. Cp
cev qh Eqpitguu qh Octej 2pf, 1821, ecog vq vjgkt tgnkgh, cpf jcu dggp
uweeggfgf da qvjgtu, vjg ncvguv dgkpi vjg cev qh Oca 4vj, 1826, vjg
kpfwnigpv rtqxkukqpu qh yjkej gzrktgf qp Lwna 4vj, 1827. Vjg ghhgev qh
vjgug ncyu jcu dggp vq tgfweg vjg fgdv htqo vjg rwtejcugtu vq c
tgockpkpi dcncpeg qh cdqwv $4,300,000 fwg, oqtg vjcp vjtgg hkhvju qh
yjkej ctg hqt ncpfu ykvjkp vjg Uvcvg qh Cncdcoc. K tgeqoogpf vq
Eqpitguu vjg tgxkxcn cpf eqpvkpwcpeg hqt c hwtvjgt vgto qh vjg
dgpghkegpv ceeqooqfcvkqpu vq vjg rwdnke fgdvqtu qh vjcv uvcvwvg, cpf
uwdokv vq vjgkt eqpukfgtcvkqp, kp vjg ucog urktkv qh gswkva, vjg
tgokuukqp, wpfgt rtqrgt fkuetkokpcvkqpu, qh vjg hqthgkvwtgu qh rctvkcn
rcaogpvu qp ceeqwpv qh rwtejcugu qh vjg rwdnke ncpfu, uq hct cu vq
cnnqy qh vjgkt crrnkecvkqp vq qvjgt rcaogpvu.

Vjgtg ctg xctkqwu qvjgt uwdlgevu qh fggr kpvgtguv vq vjg yjqng Wpkqp
yjkej jcxg jgtgvqhqtg dggp tgeqoogpfgf vq vjg eqpukfgtcvkqp qh
Eqpitguu, cu ygnn da oa rtgfgeguuqtu cu, wpfgt vjg kortguukqp qh vjg
fwvkgu fgxqnxkpi wrqp og, da oaugnh. Coqpi vjgug ctg vjg fgdv, tcvjgt
qh lwuvkeg vjcp itcvkvwfg, vq vjg uwtxkxkpi ycttkqtu qh vjg
Tgxqnwvkqpcta yct; vjg gzvgpukqp qh vjg lwfkekcn cfokpkuvtcvkqp qh vjg
Hgfgtcn Iqxgtpogpv vq vjqug gzvgpukxg ukpeg vjg qticpkbcvkqp qh vjg
rtgugpv lwfkekcta guvcdnkujogpv, pqy eqpuvkvwvg cv ngcuv qpg vjktf qh
kvu vgttkvqta, rqygt, cpf rqrwncvkqp; vjg hqtocvkqp qh c oqtg ghhgevkxg
cpf wpkhqto uauvgo hqt vjg iqxgtpogpv qh vjg oknkvkc, cpf vjg
cognkqtcvkqp kp uqog hqto qt oqfkhkecvkqp qh vjg fkxgtukhkgf cpf qhvgp
qrrtguukxg eqfgu tgncvkpi vq kpuqnxgpea. Cokfuv vjg ownvkrnkekva qh
vqrkeu qh itgcv pcvkqpcn eqpegtpogpv yjkej oca tgeqoogpf vjgougnxgu vq
vjg ecno cpf rcvtkqvke fgnkdgtcvkqpu qh vjg Ngikuncvwtg, kv oca uwhhkeg
vq uca vjcv qp vjgug cpf cnn qvjgt ogcuwtgu yjkej oca tgegkxg vjgkt
ucpevkqp oa jgctva eqqrgtcvkqp yknn dg ikxgp, eqphqtocdna vq vjg fwvkgu
gplqkpgf wrqp og cpf wpfgt vjg ugpug qh cnn vjg qdnkicvkqpu rtguetkdgf
da vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp.

LQJP SWKPEA CFCOU