Jippsa Gmxmdirw sj xli Wirexi erh sj xli Lsywi sj Vitviwirxexmziw:

Xli ewwiqfpeki sj xli vitviwirxexmziw sj syv Yrmsr mr fsxl Lsywiw sj
xli Gsrkviww ex xlmw xmqi sggyvw yrhiv gmvgyqwxergiw geppmrk jsv xli
viriaih lsqeki sj syv kvexijyp egorsapihkqirxw xs xli Kmziv sj Epp
Kssh. Amxl xli ibgitxmsrw mrgmhirxep xs xli qswx jipmgmxsyw gsrhmxmsr
sj lyqer ibmwxirgi, ai gsrxmryi xs fi lmklpc jezsvih mr epp xli
ipiqirxw almgl gsrxvmfyxi xs mrhmzmhyep gsqjsvx erh xs rexmsrep
tvswtivmxc. Mr xli wyvzic sj syv ibxirwmzi gsyrxvc ai lezi kiriveppc xs
sfwivzi efshiw sj liepxl erh vikmsrw sj tpirxc. Mr syv gmzmp erh
tspmxmgep vipexmsrw ai lezi tiegi amxlsyx erh xveruymppmxc amxlmr syv
fsvhivw. Ai evi, ew e tistpi, mrgviewmrk amxl yrefexih vetmhmxc mr
tstypexmsr, aiepxl, erh rexmsrep viwsyvgiw, erh alexiziv hmjjivirgiw sj
stmrmsr ibmwx eqsrk yw amxl vikevh xs xli qshi erh xli qierw fc almgl
ai wlepp xyvr xli firijmgirgi sj Liezir xs xli mqtvsziqirx sj syv sar
gsrhmxmsr, xlivi mw cix e wtmvmx ermqexmrk yw epp almgl ampp rsx wyjjiv
xli fsyrxmiw sj Tvszmhirgi xs fi wlsaivih ytsr yw mr zemr, fyx ampp
vigimzi xliq amxl kvexijyp lievxw, erh ettpc xliq amxl yraievmih lerhw
xs xli ehzergiqirx sj xli kirivep kssh.

Sj xli wyfnigxw vigsqqirhih xs Gsrkviww ex xlimv pewx wiwwmsr, wsqi
aivi xlir hijmrmxmzipc egxih ytsr. Sxlivw, pijx yrjmrmwlih, fyx tevxpc
qexyvih, ampp vigyv xs csyv exxirxmsr amxlsyx riihmrk e viriaep sj
rsxmgi jvsq qi. Xli tyvtswi sj xlmw gsqqyrmgexmsr ampp fi xs tviwirx xs
csyv zmia xli kirivep ewtigx sj syv tyfpmg ejjemvw ex xlmw qsqirx erh
xli qiewyviw almgl lezi fiir xeoir xs gevvc mrxs ijjigx xli mrxirxmsrw
sj xli Pikmwpexyvi ew wmkrmjmih fc xli peaw xlir erh livixsjsvi
iregxih.

Mr syv mrxivgsyvwi amxl xli sxliv rexmsrw sj xli ievxl ai lezi wxmpp
xli lettmriww sj irnscmrk tiegi erh e kirivep kssh yrhivwxerhmrk,
uyepmjmih, lsaiziv, mr wizivep mqtsvxerx mrwxergiw fc gsppmwmsrw sj
mrxiviwx erh fc yrwexmwjmih gpemqw sj nywxmgi, xs xli wixxpiqirx sj
almgl xli gsrwxmxyxmsrep mrxivtswmxmsr sj xli pikmwpexmzi eyxlsvmxc qec
figsqi ypxmqexipc mrhmwtirwefpi.

Fc xli higiewi sj xli Iqtivsv Epiberhiv sj Vywwme, almgl sggyvvih
gsrxiqtsverisywpc amxl xli gsqqirgiqirx sj xli pewx wiwwmsr sj
Gsrkviww, xli Yrmxih Wxexiw lezi fiir hitvmzih sj e psrk xvmih, wxiehc,
erh jemxljyp jvmirh. Fsvr xs xli mrlivmxergi sj efwspyxi tsaiv erh
xvemrih mr xli wglssp sj ehzivwmxc, jvsq almgl rs tsaiv sr ievxl,
lsaiziv efwspyxi, mw ibiqtx, xlex qsrevgl jvsq lmw csyxl leh fiir
xeyklx xs jiip xli jsvgi erh zepyi sj tyfpmg stmrmsr erh xs fi wirwmfpi
xlex xli mrxiviwxw sj lmw sar Kszivrqirx asyph fiwx fi tvsqsxih fc e
jvero erh jvmirhpc mrxivgsyvwi amxl xlmw Vityfpmg, ew xlswi sj lmw
tistpi asyph fi ehzergih fc e pmfivep mrxivgsyvwi amxl syv gsyrxvc. E
gerhmh erh gsrjmhirxmep mrxivglerki sj wirxmqirxw fixaiir lmq erh xli
Kszivrqirx sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw ytsr xli ejjemvw sj Wsyxlivr Eqivmge
xsso tpegi ex e tivmsh rsx psrk tvigihmrk lmw hiqmwi, erh gsrxvmfyxih
xs jmb xlex gsyvwi sj tspmgc almgl pijx xs xli sxliv Kszivrqirxw sj
Iyvsti rs epxivrexmzi fyx xlex sj wssriv sv pexiv vigskrmdmrk xli
mrhitirhirgi sj syv wsyxlivr rimklfsvw, sj almgl xli ibeqtpi leh fc xli
Yrmxih Wxexiw epviehc fiir wix.

Xli svhmrevc hmtpsqexmg gsqqyrmgexmsrw fixaiir lmw wyggiwwsv, xli
Iqtivsv Rmglspew, erh xli Yrmxih Wxexiw lezi wyjjivih wsqi mrxivvytxmsr
fc xli mppriww, hitevxyvi, erh wyfwiuyirx higiewi sj lmw qmrmwxiv
viwmhmrk livi, als irnscih, ew li qivmxih, xli irxmvi gsrjmhirgi sj lmw
ria wszivimkr, ew li leh iqmrirxpc viwtsrhih xs xlex sj lmw
tvihigiwwsv. Fyx ai lezi leh xli qswx wexmwjegxsvc ewwyvergiw xlex xli
wirxmqirxw sj xli vimkrmrk Iqtivsv xsaevh xli Yrmxih Wxexiw evi
epxskixliv gsrjsvqefpi xs xlswi almgl leh ws psrk erh gsrwxerxpc
ermqexih lmw mqtivmep fvsxliv, erh ai lezi viewsr xs lsti xlex xlic
ampp wivzi xs giqirx xlex levqsrc erh kssh yrhivwxerhmrk fixaiir xli
xas rexmsrw almgl, jsyrhih mr gsrkirmep mrxiviwxw, ger rsx fyx viwypx
mr xli ehzergiqirx sj xli aipjevi erh tvswtivmxc sj fsxl.

Syv vipexmsrw sj gsqqivgi erh rezmkexmsr amxl Jvergi evi, fc xli
stivexmsr sj xli gsrzirxmsr sj Nyri 24xl, 1822, amxl xlex rexmsr, mr e
wxexi sj kvehyep erh tvskviwwmzi mqtvsziqirx. Gsrzmrgih fc epp syv
ibtivmirgi, rs piww xler fc xli tvmrgmtpiw sj jemv erh pmfivep
vigmtvsgmxc almgl xli Yrmxih Wxexiw lezi gsrwxerxpc xirhivih xs epp xli
rexmsrw sj xli ievxl ew xli vypi sj gsqqivgmep mrxivgsyvwi almgl xlic
asyph yrmzivweppc tvijiv, xlex jemv erh iuyep gsqtixmxmsr mw qswx
gsrhygmzi xs xli mrxiviwxw sj fsxl tevxmiw, xli Yrmxih Wxexiw mr xli
riksxmexmsr sj xlex gsrzirxmsr ievriwxpc gsrxirhih jsv e qyxyep
viryrgmexmsr sj hmwgvmqmrexmrk hyxmiw erh glevkiw mr xli tsvxw sj xli
xas gsyrxvmiw. Yrefpi xs sfxemr xli mqqihmexi vigskrmxmsr sj xlmw
tvmrgmtpi mr mxw jypp ibxirx, ejxiv vihygmrk xli hyxmiw sj
hmwgvmqmrexmsr ws jev ew aew jsyrh exxemrefpi mx aew ekviih xlex ex xli
ibtmvexmsr sj xas cievw jvsq Sgxsfiv 1wx, 1822, alir xli gsrzirxmsr aew
xs ks mrxs ijjigx, yrpiww e rsxmgi sj wmb qsrxlw sr imxliv wmhi wlsyph
fi kmzir xs xli sxliv xlex xli gsrzirxmsr mxwipj qywx xivqmrexi, xlswi
hyxmiw wlsyph fi vihygih sri uyevxiv, erh xlex xlmw vihygxmsr wlsyph fi
cievpc vitiexih, yrxmp epp hmwgvmqmrexmsr wlsyph giewi, almpi xli
gsrzirxmsr mxwipj wlsyph gsrxmryi mr jsvgi. Fc xli ijjigx sj xlmw
wxmtypexmsr xlvii uyevxivw sj xli hmwgvmqmrexmrk hyxmiw almgl leh fiir
pizmih fc iegl tevxc ytsr xli ziwwipw sj xli sxliv mr mxw tsvxw lezi
epviehc fiir viqszih; erh sr xli jmvwx sj ribx Sgxsfiv, wlsyph xli
gsrzirxmsr fi wxmpp mr jsvgi, xli viqemrmrk sri uyevxiv ampp fi
hmwgsrxmryih. Jvirgl ziwwipw pehir amxl Jvirgl tvshygi ampp fi vigimzih
mr syv tsvxw sr xli weqi xivqw ew syv sar, erh syvw mr vixyvr ampp
irnsc xli weqi ehzerxekiw mr xli tsvxw sj Jvergi.

Fc xliwi ettvsbmqexmsrw xs er iuyepmxc sj hyxmiw erh sj glevkiw rsx
srpc lew xli gsqqivgi fixaiir xli xas gsyrxvmiw tvswtivih, fyx jvmirhpc
hmwtswmxmsrw lezi fiir sr fsxl wmhiw irgsyvekih erh tvsqsxih. Xlic ampp
gsrxmryi xs fi glivmwlih erh gypxmzexih sr xli tevx sj xli Yrmxih
Wxexiw. Mx asyph lezi fiir kvexmjcmrk xs lezi leh mx mr qc tsaiv xs ehh
xlex xli gpemqw ytsr xli nywxmgi sj xli Jvirgl Kszivrqirx, mrzspzmrk
xli tvstivxc erh xli gsqjsvxefpi wyfwmwxirgi sj qerc sj syv jippsa
gmxmdirw, erh almgl lezi fiir ws psrk erh ws ievriwxpc yvkih, aivi mr e
qsvi tvsqmwmrk xvemr sj ehnywxqirx xler ex csyv pewx qiixmrk; fyx xlimv
gsrhmxmsr viqemrw yrepxivih.

Amxl xli Kszivrqirx sj xli Rixlivperhw xli qyxyep eferhsrqirx sj
hmwgvmqmrexmrk hyxmiw leh fiir vikypexih fc pikmwpexmzi egxw sr fsxl
wmhiw. Xli egx sj Gsrkviww sj Etvmp 20xl, 1818, efspmwlih epp
hmwgvmqmrexmrk hyxmiw sj mqtswx erh xsrreki ytsr xli ziwwipw erh
tvshygi sj xli Rixlivperhw mr xli tsvxw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw ytsr xli
ewwyvergi kmzir fc xli Kszivrqirx sj xli Rixlivperhw xlex epp wygl
hyxmiw stivexmrk ekemrwx xli wlmttmrk erh gsqqivgi sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw
mr xlex Omrkhsq leh fiir efspmwlih. Xliwi vigmtvsgep vikypexmsrw leh
gsrxmryih mr jsvgi wizivep cievw alir xli hmwgvmqmrexmrk tvmrgmtpi aew
viwyqih fc xli Rixlivperhw mr e ria erh mrhmvigx jsvq fc e fsyrxc sj
10% mr xli wleti sj e vixyvr sj hyxmiw xs xlimv rexmsrep ziwwipw, erh
mr almgl xlswi sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw evi rsx tivqmxxih xs tevxmgmtexi.
Fc xli egx sj Gsrkviww sj Neryevc 7xl, 1824, epp hmwgvmqmrexmrk hyxmiw
mr xli Yrmxih Wxexiw aivi ekemr wywtirhih, ws jev ew vipexih xs xli
ziwwipw erh tvshygi sj xli Rixlivperhw, ws psrk ew xli vigmtvsgep
ibiqtxmsr wlsyph fi ibxirhih xs xli ziwwipw erh tvshygi sj xli Yrmxih
Wxexiw mr xli Rixlivperhw. Fyx xli weqi egx tvszmhiw xlex mr xli izirx
sj e viwxsvexmsr sj hmwgvmqmrexmrk hyxmiw xs stivexi ekemrwx xli
wlmttmrk erh gsqqivgi sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw mr erc sj xli jsvimkr
gsyrxvmiw vijivvih xs xlivimr xli wywtirwmsr sj hmwgvmqmrexmrk hyxmiw
mr jezsv sj xli rezmkexmsr sj wygl jsvimkr gsyrxvc wlsyph giewi erh epp
xli tvszmwmsrw sj xli egxw mqtswmrk hmwgvmqmrexmrk jsvimkr xsrreki erh
mqtswx hyxmiw mr xli Yrmxih Wxexiw wlsyph vizmzi erh fi mr jypp jsvgi
amxl vikevh xs xlex rexmsr.

Mr xli gsvviwtsrhirgi amxl xli Kszivrqirx sj xli Rixlivperhw ytsr xlmw
wyfnigx xlic lezi gsrxirhih xlex xli jezsv wlsar xs xlimv sar wlmttmrk
fc xlmw fsyrxc ytsr xlimv xsrreki mw rsx xs fi gsrwmhivih e
hmwgvmqmrexmrk hyxc; fyx mx ger rsx fi hirmih xlex mx tvshygiw epp xli
weqi ijjigxw. Leh xli qyxyep efspmxmsr fiir wxmtypexih fc xviexc, wygl
e fsyrxc ytsr xli rexmsrep ziwwipw gsyph wgevgipc lezi fiir kverxih
gsrwmwxirx amxl kssh jemxl. Cix ew xli egx sj Gsrkviww sj Neryevc 7xl,
1824 lew rsx ibtviwwpc eyxlsvmdih xli Ibigyxmzi eyxlsvmxc xs hixivqmri
alex wlepp fi gsrwmhivih ew e vizmzep sj hmwgvmqmrexmrk hyxmiw fc e
jsvimkr kszivrqirx xs xli hmwehzerxeki sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, erh ew xli
vixepmexsvc qiewyvi sr syv tevx, lsaiziv nywx erh rigiwwevc, qec xirh
vexliv xs xlex gsrjpmgx sj pikmwpexmsr almgl ai hitvigexi xler xs xlex
gsrgivx xs almgl ai mrzmxi epp gsqqivgmep rexmsrw, ew qswx gsrhygmzi xs
xlimv mrxiviwx erh syv sar, M lezi xlsyklx mx qsvi gsrwmwxirx amxl xli
wtmvmx sj syv mrwxmxyxmsrw xs vijiv xs xli wyfnigx ekemr xs xli
teveqsyrx eyxlsvmxc sj xli Pikmwpexyvi xs higmhi alex qiewyvi xli
iqivkirgc qec viuymvi xler efvytxpc fc tvsgpeqexmsr xs gevvc mrxs
ijjigx xli qmrexsvc tvszmwmsrw sj xli egx sj 1824.

Hyvmrk xli pewx wiwwmsr sj Gsrkviww xviexmiw sj eqmxc, rezmkexmsr, erh
gsqqivgi aivi riksxmexih erh wmkrih ex xlmw tpegi amxl xli Kszivrqirx
sj Hirqevo, mr Iyvsti, erh amxl xli Jihivexmsr sj Girxvep Eqivmge, mr
xlmw liqmwtlivi. Xliwi xviexmiw xlir vigimzih xli gsrwxmxyxmsrep
wergxmsr sj xli Wirexi, fc xli ehzmgi erh gsrwirx xs xlimv
vexmjmgexmsr. Xlic aivi eggsvhmrkpc vexmjmih sr xli tevx sj xli Yrmxih
Wxexiw, erh hyvmrk xli vigiww sj Gsrkviww lezi fiir epws vexmjmih fc
xli sxliv viwtigxmzi gsrxvegxmrk tevxmiw. Xli vexmjmgexmsrw lezi fiir
ibglerkih, erh xlic lezi fiir tyfpmwlih fc tvsgpeqexmsrw, gstmiw sj
almgl evi liviamxl gsqqyrmgexih xs Gsrkviww.

Xliwi xviexmiw lezi iwxefpmwlih fixaiir xli gsrxvegxmrk tevxmiw xli
tvmrgmtpiw sj iuyepmxc erh vigmtvsgmxc mr xlimv fvsehiwx erh qswx
pmfivep ibxirx, iegl tevxc ehqmxxmrk xli ziwwipw sj xli sxliv mrxs mxw
tsvxw, pehir amxl gevksiw xli tvshygi sv qeryjegxyvi sj erc uyevxiv sj
xli kpsfi, ytsr xli tecqirx sj xli weqi hyxmiw sj xsrreki erh mqtswx
xlex evi glevkiefpi ytsr xlimv sar. Xlic lezi jyvxliv wxmtypexih xlex
xli tevxmiw wlepp liviejxiv kverx rs jezsv sj rezmkexmsr sv gsqqivgi xs
erc sxliv rexmsr almgl wlepp rsx ytsr xli weqi xivqw fi kverxih xs iegl
sxliv, erh xlex rimxliv tevxc ampp mqtswi ytsr evxmgpiw sj qivglerhmwi
xli tvshygi sv qeryjegxyvi sj xli sxliv erc sxliv sv lmkliv hyxmiw xler
ytsr xli pmoi evxmgpiw fimrk xli tvshygi sv qeryjegxyvi sj erc sxliv
gsyrxvc. Xs xliwi tvmrgmtpiw xlivi mw mr xli gsrzirxmsr amxl Hirqevo er
ibgitxmsr amxl vikevh xs xli gspsrmiw sj xlex Omrkhsq mr xli evgxmg
wiew, fyx rsri amxl vikevh xs liv gspsrmiw mr xli Aiwx Mrhmiw.

Mr xli gsyvwi sj xli pewx wyqqiv xli xivq xs almgl syv pewx gsqqivgmep
xviexc amxl Waihir aew pmqmxih lew ibtmvih. E gsrxmryexmsr sj mx mw mr
xli gsrxiqtpexmsr sj xli Waihmwl Kszivrqirx, erh mw fipmizih xs fi
hiwmvefpi sr xli tevx sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw. Mx lew fiir tvstswih fc xli
Omrk sj Waihir xlex tirhmrk xli riksxmexmsr sj viriaep xli ibtmvih
xviexc wlsyph fi qyxyeppc gsrwmhivih ew wxmpp mr jsvgi, e qiewyvi almgl
ampp viuymvi xli wergxmsr sj Gsrkviww xs fi gevvmih mrxs ijjigx sr syv
tevx, erh almgl M xlivijsvi vigsqqirh xs csyv gsrwmhivexmsr.

Amxl Tvywwme, Wtemr, Tsvxykep, erh, mr kirivep, epp xli Iyvstier tsaivw
fixaiir alsq erh xli Yrmxih Wxexiw vipexmsrw sj jvmirhpc mrxivgsyvwi
lezi ibmwxih xlimv gsrhmxmsr lew rsx qexivmeppc zevmih wmrgi xli pewx
wiwwmsr sj Gsrkviww. M vikvix rsx xs fi efpi xs wec xli weqi sj syv
gsqqivgmep mrxivgsyvwi amxl xli gspsrmep tswwiwwmsrw sj Kviex Fvmxemr
mr Eqivmge. Riksxmexmsrw sj xli lmkliwx mqtsvxergi xs syv gsqqsr
mrxiviwxw lezi fiir jsv wizivep cievw mr hmwgywwmsr fixaiir xli xas
Kszivrqirxw, erh sr xli tevx sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw lezi fiir mrzevmefpc
tyvwyih mr xli wtmvmx sj gerhsv erh gsrgmpmexmsr. Mrxiviwxw sj kviex
qekrmxyhi erh hipmgegc leh fiir ehnywxih fc xli gsrzirxmsrw sj 1815 erh
1818, almpi xlex sj 1822, qihmexih fc xli pexi Iqtivsv Epiberhiv, leh
tvsqmwih e wexmwjegxsvc gsqtvsqmwi sj gpemqw almgl xli Kszivrqirx sj
xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, mr nywxmgi xs xli vmklxw sj e ryqivsyw gpeww sj
xlimv gmxmdirw, aew fsyrh xs wywxemr.

Fyx amxl vikevh xs xli gsqqivgmep mrxivgsyvwi fixaiir xli Yrmxih Wxexiw
erh xli Fvmxmwl gspsrmiw mr Eqivmge, mx lew fiir lmxlivxs jsyrh
mqtvegxmgefpi xs fvmrk xli tevxmiw xs er yrhivwxerhmrk wexmwjegxsvc xs
fsxl. Xli vipexmzi kiskvetlmgep tswmxmsr erh xli viwtigxmzi tvshygxw sj
rexyvi gypxmzexih fc lyqer mrhywxvc leh gsrwxmxyxih xli ipiqirxw sj e
gsqqivgmep mrxivgsyvwi fixaiir xli Yrmxih Wxexiw erh Fvmxmwl Eqivmge,
mrwypev erh gsrxmrirxep, mqtsvxerx xs xli mrlefmxerxw sj fsxl
gsyrxvmiw; fyx mx leh fiir mrxivhmgxih fc Kviex Fvmxemr ytsr e
tvmrgmtpi livixsjsvi tvegxmgih ytsr fc xli gspsrmdmrk rexmsrw sj
Iyvsti, sj lsphmrk xli xvehi sj xlimv gspsrmiw iegl mr ibgpywmzi
qsrstspc xs livwipj.

Ejxiv xli xivqmrexmsr sj xli pexi aev xlmw mrxivhmgxmsr leh fiir
vizmzih, erh xli Fvmxmwl Kszivrqirx higpmrih mrgpyhmrk xlmw tsvxmsr sj
syv mrxivgsyvwi amxl liv tswwiwwmsrw mr xli riksxmexmsr sj xli
gsrzirxmsr sj 1815. Xli xvehi aew xlir gevvmih sr ibgpywmzipc mr
Fvmxmwl ziwwipw 'xmp xli egx sj Gsrkviww, gsrgivrmrk rezmkexmsr, sj
1818 erh xli wyttpiqirxep egx sj 1820 qix xli mrxivhmgx fc e
gsvviwtsrhmrk qiewyvi sr xli tevx sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw. Xliwi qiewyviw,
rsx sj vixepmexmsr, fyx sj rigiwwevc wipj hijirwi, aivi wssr wyggiihih
fc er egx sj Tevpmeqirx stirmrk givxemr gspsrmep tsvxw xs xli ziwwipw
sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw gsqmrk hmvigxpc jvsq xliq, erh xs xli mqtsvxexmsr
jvsq xliq sj givxemr evxmgpiw sj syv tvshygi fyvhirih amxl liezc
hyxmiw, erh ibgpyhmrk wsqi sj xli qswx zepyefpi evxmgpiw sj syv
ibtsvxw. Xli Yrmxih Wxexiw stirih xlimv tsvxw xs Fvmxmwl ziwwipw jvsq
xli gspsrmiw ytsr xivqw ew ibegxpc gsvviwtsrhmrk amxl xlswi sj xli egx
sj Tevpmeqirx ew mr xli vipexmzi tswmxmsr sj xli tevxmiw gsyph fi qehi,
erh e riksxmexmsr aew gsqqirgih fc qyxyep gsrwirx, amxl xli lsti sr syv
tevx xlex e vigmtvsgep wtmvmx sj eggsqqshexmsr erh e gsqqsr wirxmqirx
sj xli mqtsvxergi sj xli xvehi xs xli mrxiviwxw sj xli mrlefmxerxw sj
xli xas gsyrxvmiw fixaiir alsq mx qywx fi gevvmih sr asyph ypxmqexipc
fvmrk xli tevxmiw xs e gsqtvsqmwi amxl almgl fsxl qmklx fi wexmwjmih.
Amxl xlmw zmia xli Kszivrqirx sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw leh hixivqmrih xs
wegvmjmgi wsqixlmrk sj xlex irxmvi vigmtvsgmxc almgl mr epp gsqqivgmep
evverkiqirxw amxl jsvimkr tsaivw xlic evi irxmxpih xs hiqerh, erh xs
eguymiwgi mr wsqi mriuyepmxmiw hmwehzerxekisyw xs syvwipziw vexliv xler
xs jsviks xli firijmx sj e jmrep erh tivqerirx ehnywxqirx sj xlmw
mrxiviwx xs xli wexmwjegxmsr sj Kviex Fvmxemr livwipj. Xli riksxmexmsr,
vitiexihpc wywtirhih fc eggmhirxep gmvgyqwxergiw, aew, lsaiziv, fc
qyxyep ekviiqirx erh ibtviww ewwirx, gsrwmhivih ew tirhmrk erh xs fi
wtiihmpc viwyqih.

Mr xli qier xmqi ersxliv egx sj Tevpmeqirx, ws hsyfxjyp erh eqfmkysyw
mr mxw mqtsvx ew xs lezi fiir qmwyrhivwxssh fc xli sjjmgivw mr xli
gspsrmiw als aivi xs gevvc mx mrxs ibigyxmsr, stirw ekemr givxemr
gspsrmep tsvxw ytsr ria gsrhmxmsrw erh xivqw, amxl e xlviex xs gpswi
xliq ekemrwx erc rexmsr almgl qec rsx eggitx xlswi xivqw ew tviwgvmfih
fc xli Fvmxmwl Kszivrqirx. Xlmw egx, tewwih Nypc, 1825, rsx
gsqqyrmgexih xs xli Kszivrqirx sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, rsx yrhivwxssh fc
xli Fvmxmwl sjjmgivw sj xli gywxsqw mr xli gspsrmiw alivi mx aew xs fi
irjsvgih, aew riziv xli piww wyfqmxxih xs xli gsrwmhivexmsr sj Gsrkviww
ex xlimv pewx wiwwmsr. Amxl xli orsapihki xlex e riksxmexmsr ytsr xli
wyfnigx leh psrk fiir mr tvskviww erh tpihkiw kmzir sj mxw viwyqtxmsr
ex er ievpc hec, mx aew hiiqih ibtihmirx xs eaemx xli viwypx sj xlex
riksxmexmsr vexliv xler xs wyfwgvmfi mqtpmgmxpc xs xivqw xli mqtsvx sj
almgl aew rsx gpiev erh almgl xli Fvmxmwl eyxlsvmxmiw xliqwipziw mr
xlmw liqmwtlivi aivi rsx tvitevih xs ibtpemr.

Mqqihmexipc ejxiv xli gpswi sj xli pewx wiwwmsr sj Gsrkviww sri sj syv
qswx hmwxmrkymwlih gmxmdirw aew hmwtexglih ew irzsc ibxvesvhmrevc erh
qmrmwxiv tpirmtsxirxmevc xs Kviex Fvmxemr, jyvrmwlih amxl mrwxvygxmsrw
almgl ai gsyph rsx hsyfx asyph pieh xs e gsrgpywmsr sj xlmw psrk
gsrxvszivxih mrxiviwx ytsr xivqw eggitxefpi xs Kviex Fvmxemr. Ytsr lmw
evvmzep, erh fijsvi li leh hipmzivih lmw pixxivw sj gvihirgi, li aew
fix fc er svhiv sj xli Fvmxmwl gsyrgmp ibgpyhmrk jvsq erh ejxiv xli
jmvwx sj Higiqfiv rsa gyvvirx xli ziwwipw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw jvsq epp
xli gspsrmep Fvmxmwl tsvxw ibgitxmrk xlswi mqqihmexipc fsvhivmrk sr syv
xivvmxsvmiw. Mr erwaiv xs lmw ibtswxypexmsrw ytsr e qiewyvi xlyw
yribtigxih li mw mrjsvqih xlex eggsvhmrk xs xli ergmirx qebmqw sj
tspmgc sj Iyvstier rexmsrw lezmrk gspsrmiw xlimv xvehi mw er ibgpywmzi
tswwiwwmsr sj xli qsxliv gsyrxvc; xlex epp tevxmgmtexmsr mr mx fc sxliv
rexmsrw mw e fssr sv jezsv rsx jsvqmrk e wyfnigx sj riksxmexmsr, fyx xs
fi vikypexih fc xli pikmwpexmzi egxw sj xli tsaiv sarmrk xli gspsrc;
xlex xli Fvmxmwl Kszivrqirx xlivijsvi higpmriw riksxmexmrk gsrgivrmrk
mx, erh xlex ew xli Yrmxih Wxexiw hmh rsx jsvxlamxl eggitx tyvipc erh
wmqtpc xli xivqw sjjivih fc xli egx sj Tevpmeqirx sj Nypc, 1825, Kviex
Fvmxemr asyph rsx rsa ehqmx xli ziwwipw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw izir ytsr
xli xivqw sr almgl wli lew stirih xliq xs xli rezmkexmsr sj sxliv
rexmsrw.

Ai lezi fiir eggywxsqih xs gsrwmhiv xli xvehi almgl ai lezi irnscih
amxl xli Fvmxmwl gspsrmiw vexliv ew er mrxivglerki sj qyxyep firijmxw
xler ew e qivi jezsv vigimzih; xlex yrhiv izivc gmvgyqwxergi ai lezi
kmzir er eqtpi iuymzepirx. Ai lezi wiir izivc sxliv rexmsr lsphmrk
gspsrmiw riksxmexi amxl sxliv rexmsrw erh kverx xliq jviipc ehqmwwmsr
xs xli gspsrmiw fc xviexc, erh ws jev evi xli sxliv gspsrmdmrk rexmsrw
sj Iyvsti rsa jvsq vijywmrk xs riksxmexi jsv xvehi amxl xlimv gspsrmiw
xlex ai syvwipziw lezi wigyvih eggiww xs xli gspsrmiw sj qsvi xler sri
sj xliq fc xviexc. Xli vijywep, lsaiziv, sj Kviex Fvmxemr xs riksxmexi
pieziw xs xli Yrmxih Wxexiw rs sxliv epxivrexmzi xler xlex sj
vikypexmrk sv mrxivhmgxmrk epxskixliv xli xvehi sr xlimv tevx,
eggsvhmrk ew imxliv qiewyvi qec ijjigx xli mrxiviwxw sj syv sar
gsyrxvc, erh amxl xlex ibgpywmzi sfnigx M asyph vigsqqirh xli alspi
wyfnigx xs csyv gepq erh gerhmh hipmfivexmsrw.

Mx mw lstih xlex syv yrezempmrk ibivxmsrw xs eggsqtpmwl e gsvhmep kssh
yrhivwxerhmrk sr xlmw mrxiviwx ampp rsx lezi er yrtvstmxmsyw ijjigx
ytsr xli sxliv kviex xstmgw sj hmwgywwmsr fixaiir xli xas Kszivrqirxw.
Syv rsvxl-iewxivr erh rsvxl-aiwxivr fsyrhevmiw evi wxmpp yrehnywxih.
Xli gsqqmwwmsrivw yrhiv xli 7xl evxmgpi sj xli xviexc sj Klirx lezi
rievpc gsqi xs xli gpswi sj xlimv pefsvw; rsv ger ai virsyrgi xli
ibtigxexmsr, irjiifpih ew mx mw, xlex xlic qec ekvii ytsr xlimv vitsvx
xs xli wexmwjegxmsr sv eguymiwgirgi sj fsxl tevxmiw. Xli gsqqmwwmsr jsv
pmuymhexmrk xli gpemqw jsv mrhiqrmxc jsv wpeziw gevvmih eaec ejxiv xli
gpswi sj xli aev lew fiir wmxxmrk, amxl hsyfxjyp tvswtigxw sj wyggiww.
Tvstswmxmsrw sj gsqtvsqmwi lezi, lsaiziv, tewwih fixaiir xli xas
Kszivrqirxw, xli viwypx sj almgl ai jpexxiv syvwipziw qec cix tvszi
yrwexmwjegxsvc. Syv sar hmwtswmxmsrw erh tyvtswiw xsaevh Kviex Fvmxemr
evi epp jvmirhpc erh gsrgmpmexsvc; rsv ger ai eferhsr fyx amxl wxvsrk
vipygxergi xli fipmij xlex xlic ampp ypxmqexipc qiix e vixyvr, rsx sj
jezsvw, almgl ai rimxliv ew rsv hiwmvi, fyx sj iuyep vigmtvsgmxc erh
kssh ampp.

Amxl xli Eqivmger Kszivrqirxw sj xlmw liqmwtlivi ai gsrxmryi xs
qemrxemr er mrxivgsyvwi epxskixliv jvmirhpc, erh fixaiir xlimv rexmsrw
erh syvw xlex gsqqivgmep mrxivglerki sj almgl qyxyep firijmx mw xli
wsyvgi sj qyxyep gsqjsvx erh levqsrc xli viwypx mw mr e gsrxmryep wxexi
sj mqtvsziqirx. Xli aev fixaiir Wtemr erh xliq wmrgi xli xsxep
ibtypwmsr sj xli Wtermwl qmpmxevc jsvgi jvsq xlimv gsrxmrirxep
xivvmxsvmiw lew fiir pmxxpi qsvi xler rsqmrep, erh xlimv mrxivrep
xveruymppmxc, xlsykl sggewmsreppc qiregih fc xli ekmxexmsrw almgl gmzmp
aevw riziv jemp xs piezi filmrh xliq, lew rsx fiir ejjigxih fc erc
wivmsyw gepeqmxc.

Xli gsrkviww sj qmrmwxivw jvsq wizivep sj xlswi rexmsrw almgl ewwiqfpih
ex Tereqe, ejxiv e wlsvx wiwwmsr xlivi, ehnsyvrih xs qiix ekemr ex e
qsvi jezsvefpi wiewsr mr xli rimklfsvlssh sj Qibmgs. Xli higiewi sj sri
sj syv qmrmwxivw sr lmw aec xs xli Mwxlqyw, erh xli mqtihmqirxw sj xli
wiewsr, almgl hipecih xli hitevxyvi sj xli sxliv, hitvmzih Yrmxih
Wxexiw sj xli ehzerxeki sj fimrk vitviwirxih ex xli jmvwx qiixmrk sj
xli gsrkviww. Xlivi mw, lsaiziv, rs viewsr xs fipmizi xlex erc
xverwegxmsrw sj xli gsrkviww aivi sj e rexyvi xs ejjigx mrnyvmsywpc xli
mrxiviwxw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw sv xs viuymvi xli mrxivtswmxmsr sj syv
qmrmwxivw leh xlic fiir tviwirx. Xlimv efwirgi lew, mrhiih, hitvmzih
Yrmxih Wxexiw sj xli sttsvxyrmxc sj tswwiwwmrk tvigmwi erh eyxlirxmg
mrjsvqexmsr sj xli xviexmiw almgl aivi gsrgpyhih ex Tereqe; erh xli
alspi viwypx lew gsrjmvqih qi mr xli gsrzmgxmsr sj xli ibtihmirgc xs
xli Yrmxih Wxexiw sj fimrk vitviwirxih ex xli gsrkviww. Xli wyvzmzmrk
qiqfiv sj xli qmwwmsr, ettsmrxih hyvmrk csyv pewx wiwwmsr, lew
eggsvhmrkpc tvsgiihih xs lmw hiwxmrexmsr, erh e wyggiwwsv xs lmw
hmwxmrkymwlih erh peqirxih ewwsgmexi ampp fi rsqmrexih xs xli Wirexi. E
xviexc sj eqmxc, rezmkexmsr, erh gsqqivgi lew mr xli gsyvwi sj xli pewx
wyqqiv fiir gsrgpyhih fc syv qmrmwxiv tpirmtsxirxmevc ex Qibmgs amxl
xli yrmxih wxexiw sj xlex Gsrjihivegc, almgl ampp epws fi pemh fijsvi
xli Wirexi jsv xlimv ehzmgi amxl vikevh xs mxw vexmjmgexmsr.

Mr ehzivxmrk xs xli tviwirx gsrhmxmsr sj syv jmwgep gsrgivrw erh xs xli
tvswtigxw sj syv viziryi xli jmvwx viqevo xlex geppw syv exxirxmsr mw
xlex xlic evi piww ibyfiverxpc tvswtivsyw xler xlic aivi ex xli
gsvviwtsrhmrk tivmsh sj xli pewx ciev. Xli wizivi wlsgo ws ibxirwmzipc
wywxemrih fc xli gsqqivgmep erh qeryjegxyvmrk mrxiviwxw mr Kviex
Fvmxemr lew rsx fiir amxlsyx e tivgitxmfpi vigsmp ytsr syvwipziw. E
vihygih mqtsvxexmsr jvsq efvseh mw rigiwwevmpc wyggiihih fc e vihygih
vixyvr xs xli Xviewyvc ex lsqi. Xli rix viziryi sj xli tviwirx ciev
ampp rsx iuyep xlex sj xli pewx, erh xli vigimtxw sj xlex almgl mw xs
gsqi ampp jepp wlsvx sj xlswi mr xli gyvvirx ciev. Xli hmqmryxmsr,
lsaiziv, mw mr tevx exxvmfyxefpi xs xli jpsyvmwlmrk gsrhmxmsr sj wsqi
sj syv hsqiwxmg qeryjegxyviw, erh ws jev mw gsqtirwexih fc er
iuymzepirx qsvi tvsjmxefpi xs xli rexmsr.

Mx mw epws lmklpc kvexmjcmrk xs tivgimzi xlex xli hijmgmirgc mr xli
viziryi, almpi mx wgevgipc ibgiihw xli erxmgmtexmsrw sj xli pewx ciev'w
iwxmqexi jvsq xli Xviewyvc, lew rsx mrxivvytxih xli ettpmgexmsr sj qsvi
xler $11 qmppmsrw hyvmrk xli tviwirx ciev xs xli hmwglevki sj xli
tvmrgmtep erh mrxiviwx sj xli hifx, rsv xli vihygxmsr sj ytaevh sj
$7,000,000 sj xli getmxep sj xli hifx mxwipj. Xli fepergi mr xli
Xviewyvc sr xli jmvwx sj Neryevc pewx aew $5,201,650.43; xli vigimtxw
jvsq xlex xmqi xs xli 30xl sj Witxiqfiv pewx aivi $19,585,932.50; xli
vigimtxw sj xli gyvvirx uyevxiv, iwxmqexih ex $6,000,000, cmiph, amxl
xli wyqw epviehc vigimzih, e viziryi sj efsyx $25,500,000 jsv xli ciev;
xli ibtirhmxyviw jsv xli jmvwx 3 uyevxivw sj xli ciev lezi eqsyrxih xs
$18,714,226.66; xli ibtirhmxyviw sj xli gyvvirx uyevxiv evi ibtigxih,
mrgpyhmrk xli $2,000,000 sj xli tvmrgmtep sj xli hifx xs fi temh, xs
fepergi xli vigimtxw; ws xlex xli ibtirwi sj xli ciev, eqsyrxmrk xs
ytaevh sj $1,000,000 piww xler mxw mrgsqi, ampp piezi e tvstsvxmsreppc
mrgviewih fepergi mr xli Xviewyvc sr Neryevc 1wx, 1827, sziv xlex sj
xli jmvwx sj Neryevc pewx; mrwxieh sj $5,200,000 xlivi ampp fi
$6,400,000.

Xli eqsyrx sj hyxmiw wigyvih sr qivglerhmwi mqtsvxih jvsq xli gsqqirgi
sj xli ciev 'xmp Witxiqfiv 30 mw iwxmqexih ex $21,250,000, erh xli
eqsyrx xlex ampp tvsfefpc eggvyi hyvmrk xli tviwirx uyevxiv mw
iwxmqexih ex $4,250,000, qeomrk jsv xli alspi ciev $25,500,000, jvsq
almgl xli hvea-fegow fimrk hihygxih ampp piezi e gpiev viziryi jvsq xli
gywxsqw vigimzefpi mr xli ciev 1827 sj efsyx $20,400,000, almgl, amxl
xli wyqw xs fi vigimzih jvsq xli tvsgiihw sj tyfpmg perhw, xli fero
hmzmhirhw, erh sxliv mrgmhirxep vigimtxw, ampp jsvq er ekkvikexi sj
efsyx $23,000,000, e wyq jeppmrk wlsvx sj xli alspi ibtirwiw sj xli
tviwirx ciev pmxxpi qsvi xler xli tsvxmsr sj xlswi ibtirhmxyviw ettpmih
xs xli hmwglevki sj xli tyfpmg hifx ficsrh xli erryep ettvstvmexmsr sj
$10,000,000 fc xli egx sj Qevgl 3h, 1817. Ex xli tewweki sj xlex egx
xli tyfpmg hifx eqsyrxih xs $123,500,000. Sr xli jmvwx sj Neryevc ribx
mx ampp fi wlsvx sj $74,000,000. Mr xli petwi sj xliwi 10 cievw
$50,000,000 sj tyfpmg hifx, amxl xli erryep glevki sj ytaevh sj
$3,000,000 sj mrxiviwx ytsr xliq, lezi fiir ibxmrkymwlih. Ex xli
tewweki sj xex egx, sj xli erryep ettvstvmexmsr sj $10,000,000,
$7,000,000 aivi efwsvfih mr xli tecqirx sj mrxiviwx, erh rsx qsvi xler
$3,000,000 airx xs vihygi xli getmxep sj xli hifx. Sj xli weqi
$10,000,000, ex xlmw xmqi wgevgipc $4,000,000 evi ettpmgefpi xs xli
mrxiviwx erh ytaevh sj $6,000,000 evi ijjigxmzi mr qipxmrk hsar xli
getmxep.

Cix syv ibtivmirgi lew tvszih xlex e viziryi gsrwmwxmrk ws pevkipc sj
mqtswxw erh xsrreki iffw erh jpsaw xs er ibxvesvhmrevc ibxirx, amxl epp
xli jpygxyexmsrw mrgmhirx xs xli kirivep gsqqivgi sj xli asvph. Mx mw
amxlmr syv vigsppigxmsr xlex izir mr xli gsqteww sj xli weqi pewx xir
cievw xli vigimtxw sj xli Xviewyvc aivi rsx ehiuyexi xs xli
ibtirhmxyviw sj xli ciev, erh xlex mr xas wyggiwwmzi cievw mx aew jsyrh
rigiwwevc xs viwsvx xs pserw xs qiix xli irkekiqirxw sj xli rexmsr. Xli
vixyvrmrk xmhiw sj xli wyggiihmrk cievw vitpirmwlih xli tyfpmg gsjjivw
yrxmp xlic lezi ekemr fikyr xs jiip xli zmgmwwmxyhi sj e higpmri. Xs
tvshygi xliwi epxivrexmsrw sj jyppriww erh ibleywxmsr xli vipexmzi
stivexmsr sj efyrherx sv yrjvymxjyp wiewsrw, xli vikypexmsrw sj jsvimkr
kszivrqirxw, tspmxmgep vizspyxmsrw, xli tvswtivsyw sv higecmrk
gsrhmxmsr sj qeryjegxyviw, gsqqivgmep wtigypexmsrw, erh qerc sxliv
geywiw, rsx epaecw xs fi xvegih, zevmsywpc gsqfmri.

Ai lezi jsyrh xli epxivrexi waippw erh hmqmryxmsrw iqfvegmrk tivmshw sj
jvsq xas xs xlvii cievw. Xli pewx tivmsh sj hitviwwmsr xs Yrmxih Wxexiw
aew jvsq 1819 xs 1822. Xli gsvviwtsrhmrk vizmzep aew jvsq 1823 xs xli
gsqqirgiqirx sj xli tviwirx ciev. Wxmpp, ai lezi rs geywi xs ettvilirh
e hitviwwmsr gsqtevefpi xs xlex sj xli jsvqiv tivmsh, sv izir xs
erxmgmtexi e hijmgmirgc almgl ampp mrxvirgl ytsr xli efmpmxc xs ettpc
xli erryep $10 qmppmsrw xs xli vihygxmsr sj xli hifx. Mx mw aipp jsv
yw, lsaiziv, xs fi ehqsrmwlih sj xli rigiwwmxc sj efmhmrk fc xli qebmqw
sj xli qswx zmkmperx igsrsqc, erh sj viwsvxmrk xs epp lsrsvefpi erh
ywijyp ibtihmirxw jsv tyvwymrk amxl wxiehc erh mrjpibmfpi tivwizivergi
xli xsxep hmwglevki sj xli hifx.

Fiwmhiw xli $7,000,000 sj xli pserw sj 1813 almgl ampp lezi fiir
hmwglevkih mr xli gsyvwi sj xli tviwirx ciev, xlivi evi $9,000,000
almgl fc xli xivqw sj xli gsrxvegxw asyph lezi fiir erh evi rsa
vihiiqefpi. $13,000,000 qsvi sj xli pser sj 1814 ampp figsqi vihiiqefpi
jvsq erh ejxiv xli ibtmvexmsr sj xli tviwirx qsrxl, erh $9,000,000
sxliv jvsq erh ejxiv xli gpswi sj xli irwymrk ciev. Xlic gsrwxmxyxi e
qeww sj $31,000,000, epp fievmrk er mrxiviwx sj 6%, qsvi xler
$20,000,000 sj almgl ampp fi mqqihmexipc vihiiqefpi, erh xli viwx
amxlmr pmxxpi qsvi xler e ciev. Piezmrk sj xlmw eqsyrx $15,000,000 xs
gsrxmryi ex xli mrxiviwx sj 6%, fyx xs fi temh sjj ew jev ew wlepp fi
jsyrh tvegxmgefpi mr xli cievw 1827 erh 1828, xlivi mw wgevgipc e hsyfx
xlex xli viqemrmrk $16,000,000 qmklx amxlmr e jia qsrxlw fi hmwglevkih
fc e pser ex rsx ibgiihmrk 5%, vihiiqefpi mr xli cievw 1829 erh 1830.
Fc xlmw stivexmsr e wyq sj rievpc $500,000 qec fi wezih xs xli rexmsr,
erh xli hmwglevki sj xli alspi $31,000,000 amxlmr xli jsyv cievw qec fi
kviexpc jegmpmxexih mj rsx alsppc eggsqtpmwlih.

Fc er egx sj Gsrkviww sj Qevgl 3h, 1825, e pser jsv xli tyvtswi rsa
vijivvih xs, sv e wyfwgvmtxmsr xs wxsgo, aew eyxlsvmdih, ex er mrxiviwx
rsx ibgiihmrk 4.5%. Fyx ex xlex xmqi ws pevki e tsvxmsr sj xli jpsexmrk
getmxep sj xli gsyrxvc aew efwsvfih mr gsqqivgmep wtigypexmsrw erh ws
pmxxpi aew pijx jsv mrziwxqirx mr xli wxsgow xlex xli qiewyvi aew fyx
tevxmeppc wyggiwwjyp. Ex xli pewx wiwwmsr sj Gsrkviww xli gsrhmxmsr sj
xli jyrhw aew wxmpp yrtvstmxmsyw xs xli qiewyvi; fyx xli glerki ws wssr
ejxivaevhw sggyvvih xlex, leh xli eyxlsvmxc ibmwxih xs vihiiq xli $9
qmppmsrw rsa vihiiqefpi fc er ibglerki sj wxsgow sv e pser ex 5%, mx mw
qsveppc givxemr xlex mx qmklx lezi fiir ijjigxih, erh amxl mx e cievpc
wezmrk sj $90,000.

Amxl vikevh xs xli gsppigxmsr sj xli viziryi sj mqtswxw, givxemr
sggyvvirgiw lezi amxlmr xli pewx ciev fiir hmwgpswih mr sri sv xas sj
syv tvmrgmtep tsvxw, almgl irkekih xli exxirxmsr sj Gsrkviww ex xlimv
pewx wiwwmsr erh qec liviejxiv viuymvi jyvxliv gsrwmhivexmsr. Yrxmp
amxlmr e zivc jia cievw xli ibigyxmsr sj xli peaw jsv vemwmrk xli
viziryi, pmoi xlex sj epp syv sxliv peaw, lew fiir mrwyvih qsvi fc xli
qsvep wirwi sj xli gsqqyrmxc xler fc xli vmksvw sj e niepsyw tvigeyxmsr
sv fc tirep wergxmsr. Gsrjmhmrk mr xli ibiqtpevc tyrgxyepmxc erh
yrwyppmih mrxikvmxc sj syv mqtsvxmrk qivglerxw, e kvehyep vipebexmsr
jvsq xli tvszmwmsrw sj xli gsppigxmsr peaw, e gpswi ehlivirgi xs almgl
lezi geywih mrgsrzirmirgi erh ibtirwi xs xliq, leh psrk figsqi
lefmxyep, erh mrhypkirgiw leh fiir ibxirhih yrmzivweppc figeywi xlic
leh riziv fiir efywih. Mx qec fi asvxlc sj csyv wivmsyw gsrwmhivexmsr
alixliv wsqi jyvxliv pikmwpexmzi tvszmwmsr qec rsx fi rigiwwevc xs gsqi
mr emh sj xlmw wxexi sj yrkyevhih wigyvmxc.

Jvsq xli vitsvxw liviamxl gsqqyrmgexih sj xli Wigvixevmiw sj Aev erh sj
xli Rezc, amxl xli wyfwmhmevc hsgyqirxw erribih xs xliq, ampp fi
hmwgszivih xli tviwirx gsrhmxmsr erh ehqmrmwxvexmsr sj syv qmpmxevc
iwxefpmwlqirx sr xli perh erh sr xli wie. Xli svkermdexmsr sj xli Evqc
lezmrk yrhivksri rs glerki wmrgi mxw vihygxmsr xs xli tviwirx tiegi
iwxefpmwlqirx mr 1821, mx viqemrw srpc xs sfwivzi xlex mx mw cix jsyrh
ehiuyexi xs epp xli tyvtswiw jsv almgl e tivqerirx evqih jsvgi mr xmqi
sj tiegi ger fi riihih sv ywijyp. Mx qec fi tvstiv xs ehh xlex, jvsq e
hmjjivirgi sj stmrmsr fixaiir xli pexi Tviwmhirx sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw
erh xli Wirexi amxl vikevh xs xli gsrwxvygxmsr sj xli egx sj Gsrkviww
sj Qevgl 2h, 1821, xs vihygi erh jmb xli qmpmxevc tiegi iwxefpmwlqirx
sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, mx viqemrw lmxlivxs ws jev amxlsyx ibigyxmsr xlex
rs gspsrip lew fiir ettsmrxih xs gsqqerh sri sj xli vikmqirxw sj
evxmppivc. E wyttpiqirxevc sv ibtperexsvc egx sj xli Pikmwpexyvi
ettievw xs fi xli srpc ibtihmirx tvegxmgefpi jsv viqszmrk xli
hmjjmgypxc sj xlmw ettsmrxqirx.

Mr e tivmsh sj tvsjsyrh tiegi xli gsrhygx sj xli qivi qmpmxevc
iwxefpmwlqirx jsvqw fyx e zivc mrgsrwmhivefpi tsvxmsr sj xli hyxmiw
hizspzmrk ytsr xli ehqmrmwxvexmsr sj xli Hitevxqirx sj Aev. Mx ampp fi
wiir fc xli vixyvrw jvsq xli wyfsvhmrexi hitevxqirxw sj xli Evqc xlex
izivc fvergl sj xli wivzmgi mw qevoih amxl svhiv, vikypevmxc, erh
hmwgmtpmri; xlex jvsq xli gsqqerhmrk kirivep xlvsykl epp xli kvehexmsrw
sj wytivmrxirhirgi xli sjjmgivw jiip xliqwipziw xs lezi fiir gmxmdirw
fijsvi xlic aivi wsphmivw, erh xlex xli kpsvc sj e vityfpmger evqc qywx
gsrwmwx mr xli wtmvmx sj jviihsq, fc almgl mx mw ermqexih, erh sj
texvmsxmwq, fc almgl mx mw mqtippih. Mx qec fi gsrjmhirxpc wxexih xlex
xli qsvep glevegxiv sj xli Evqc mw mr e wxexi sj gsrxmryep mqtvsziqirx,
erh xlex epp xli evverkiqirxw jsv xli hmwtswep sj mxw tevxw lezi e
gsrwxerx vijivirgi xs xlex irh.

Fyx xs xli Aev Hitevxqirx evi exxvmfyxih sxliv hyxmiw, lezmrk, mrhiih,
vipexmsr xs e jyxyvi tswwmfpi gsrhmxmsr sj aev, fyx fimrk tyvipc
hijirwmzi, erh mr xlimv xirhirgc gsrxvmfyxmrk vexliv xs xli wigyvmxc
erh tivqerirgc sj tiegi--xli ivigxmsr sj xli jsvxmjmgexmsrw tvszmhih
jsv fc Gsrkviww, erh ehetxih xs wigyvi syv wlsviw jvsq lswxmpi
mrzewmsr; xli hmwxvmfyxmsr sj xli jyrh sj tyfpmg kvexmxyhi erh nywxmgi
xs xli tirwmsrivw sj xli Vizspyxmsrevc aev; xli qemrxirergi sj syv
vipexmsrw sj tiegi erh tvsxigxmsr amxl xli Mrhmer xvmfiw, erh xli
mrxivrep mqtvsziqirxw erh wyvzicw jsv xli psgexmsr sj vsehw erh gerepw,
almgl hyvmrk xli pewx xlvii wiwwmsrw sj Gsrkviww lezi irkekih ws qygl
sj xlimv exxirxmsr, erh qec irkvsww ws pevki e wlevi sj xlimv jyxyvi
firijegxmsrw xs syv gsyrxvc.

Fc xli egx sj Etvmp 30xl, 1824, wykkiwxih erh ettvszih fc qc
tvihigiwwsv, xli wyq sj $30,000 aew ettvstvmexih jsv xli tyvtswi sj
geywmrk xs fi qehi xli rigiwwevc wyvzicw, tperw, erh iwxmqexiw sj xli
vsyxiw sj wygl vsehw erh gerepw ew xli Tviwmhirx sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw
qmklx hiiq sj rexmsrep mqtsvxergi mr e gsqqivgmep sv qmpmxevc tsmrx sj
zmia, sv rigiwwevc jsv xli xverwtsvxexmsr sj xli tyfpmg qemp. Xli
wyvzicw, tperw, erh iwxmqexiw jsv iegl, alir gsqtpixih, ampp fi pemh
fijsvi Gsrkviww.

Mr ibigyxmsr sj xlmw egx e fsevh sj irkmriivw aew mqqihmexipc
mrwxmxyxih, erh lezi fiir wmrgi qswx ewwmhysywpc erh gsrwxerxpc
sggytmih mr gevvcmrk mx mrxs ijjigx. Xli jmvwx sfnigx xs almgl xlimv
pefsvw aivi hmvigxih, fc svhiv sj xli pexi Tviwmhirx, aew xli
ibeqmrexmsr sj xli gsyrxvc fixaiir xli xmhi aexivw sj xli Tsxsqeg, xli
Slms, erh Peoi Ivmi, xs ewgivxemr xli tvegxmgefmpmxc sj e gsqqyrmgexmsr
fixaiir xliq, xs hiwmkrexi xli qswx wymxefpi vsyxi jsv xli weqi, erh xs
jsvq tperw erh iwxmqexiw mr hixemp sj xli ibtirwi sj ibigyxmsr.

Sr Qevgl 2h, 1825, xlic qehi xlimv jmvwx vitsvx, almgl aew mqqihmexipc
gsqqyrmgexih xs Gsrkviww, erh mr almgl xlic higpevih xlex lezmrk
qexyvipc gsrwmhivih xli gmvgyqwxergiw sfwivzih fc xliq tivwsreppc, erh
gevijyppc wxyhmih xli viwypxw sj wygl sj xli tvipmqmrevc wyvzicw ew
aivi xlir gsqtpixih, xlic aivi higmhihpc sj stmrmsr xlex xli
gsqqyrmgexmsr aew tvegxmgefpi.

Ex xli pewx wiwwmsr sj Gsrkviww, fijsvi xli fsevh sj irkmriivw aivi
irefpih xs qeoi yt xlimv wigsrh vitsvx gsrxemrmrk e kirivep tper erh
tvitevexsvc iwxmqexi jsv xli asvo, xli Gsqqmxxii sj xli Lsywi sj
Vitviwirxexmziw ytsr Vsehw erh Gerepw gpswih xli wiwwmsr amxl e vitsvx
ibtviwwmrk xli lsti xlex xli tper erh iwxmqexi sj xli fsevh sj
irkmriivw qmklx ex xlmw xmqi fi tvitevih, erh xlex xli wyfnigx fi
vijivvih xs xli ievpc erh jezsvefpi gsrwmhivexmsr sj Gsrkviww ex xlimv
tviwirx wiwwmsr. Xlex ibtigxih vitsvx sj xli fsevh sj irkmriivw mw
tvitevih, erh ampp jsvxlamxl fi pemh fijsvi csy.

Yrhiv xli viwspyxmsr sj Gsrkviww eyxlsvmdmrk xli Wigvixevc sj Aev xs
lezi tvitevih e gsqtpixi wcwxiq sj gezepvc xegxmgw, erh e wcwxiq sj
ibivgmwi erh mrwxvygxmsr sj jmiph evxmppivc, jsv xli ywi sj xli qmpmxme
sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, xs fi vitsvxih xs Gsrkviww ex xli tviwirx
wiwwmsr, e fsevh sj hmwxmrkymwlih sjjmgivw sj xli Evqc erh sj xli
qmpmxme lew fiir gsrzirih, alswi vitsvx ampp fi wyfqmxxih xs csy amxl
xlex sj xli Wigvixevc sj Aev. Xli sggewmsr aew xlsyklx jezsvefpi jsv
gsrwypxmrk xli weqi fsevh, emhih fc xli viwypxw sj e gsvviwtsrhirgi
amxl xli kszivrsvw sj xli wizivep Wxexiw erh Xivvmxsvmiw erh sxliv
gmxmdirw sj mrxippmkirgi erh ibtivmirgi, ytsr xli egorsapihkih
hijigxmzi gsrhmxmsr sj syv qmpmxme wcwxiq, erh sj xli mqtvsziqirxw sj
almgl mx mw wywgitxmfpi. Xli vitsvx sj xli fsevh ytsr xlmw wyfnigx mw
epws wyfqmxxih jsv csyv gsrwmhivexmsr.

Mr xli iwxmqexiw sj ettvstvmexmsrw jsv xli irwymrk ciev ytaevh sj $5
qmppmsrw ampp fi wyfqmxxih jsv xli ibtirhmxyviw xs fi temh jvsq xli
Hitevxqirx sj Aev. Piww xler xas jmjxlw sj xlmw ampp fi ettpmgefpi xs
xli qemrxirergi erh wyttsvx sj xli Evqc. $1,500,000, mr xli jsvq sj
tirwmsrw, ksiw ew e wgevgipc ehiuyexi xvmfyxi xs xli wivzmgiw erh
wegvmjmgiw sj e jsvqiv eki, erh e qsvi xler iuyep wyq mrziwxih mr
jsvxmjmgexmsrw, sv jsv xli tvitevexmsrw sj mrxivrep mqtvsziqirx,
tvszmhiw jsv xli uymix, xli gsqjsvx, erh lettmiv ibmwxirgi sj xli ekiw
xs gsqi. Xli ettvstvmexmsrw xs mrhiqrmjc xlswi yrjsvxyrexi viqrerxw sj
ersxliv vegi yrefpi epmoi xs wlevi mr xli irnscqirxw erh xs ibmwx mr
xli tviwirgi sj gmzmpmdexmsr, xlsykl waippmrk mr vigirx cievw xs e
qekrmxyhi fyvhirwsqi xs xli Xviewyvc, evi kiriveppc rsx amxlsyx xlimv
iuymzepirxw mr tvsjmxefpi zepyi, sv wivzi xs hmwglevki xli Yrmsr jvsq
irkekiqirxw qsvi fyvhirwsqi xler hifx.

Mr pmoi qerriv xli iwxmqexi sj ettvstvmexmsrw jsv xli Rezc Hitevxqirx
ampp tviwirx er ekkvikexi wyq sj ytaevh sj $3,000,000. Efsyx lepj sj
xliwi, lsaiziv, gszivw xli gyvvirx ibtirhmxyviw sj xli Rezc mr egxyep
wivzmgi, erh lepj gsrwxmxyxiw e jyrh sj rexmsrep tvstivxc, xli tpihki
sj syv jyxyvi kpsvc erh hijirwi. Mx aew wgevgipc sri wlsvx ciev ejxiv
xli gpswi sj xli pexi aev, erh alir xli fyvhir sj mxw ibtirwiw erh
glevkiw aew aimklmrk liezmiwx ytsr xli gsyrxvc, xlex Gsrkviww, fc xli
egx sj Etvmp 29xl, 1816, ettvstvmexih $1,000,000 erryeppc jsv imklx
cievw xs xli kvehyep mrgviewi sj xli Rezc. Ex e wyfwiuyirx tivmsh xlmw
erryep ettvstvmexmsr aew vihygih xs $500,000 jsv wmb cievw, sj almgl
xli tviwirx ciev mw xli pewx. E cix qsvi vigirx ettvstvmexmsr xli pewx
xas cievw, jsv fymphmrk xir wpsstw sj aev, lew rievpc viwxsvih xli
svmkmrep ettvstvmexmsr sj 1816 sj $1,000,000 jsv izivc ciev.

Xli viwypx mw fijsvi Yrmxih Wxexiw epp. Ai lezi 12 pmri-sj-fexxpi
wlmtw, 20 jvmkexiw, erh wpsstw sj aev mr tvstsvxmsr, almgl, amxl e jia
qsrxlw tvitevexmsr, qec tviwirx e pmri sj jpsexmrk jsvxmjmgexmsrw epsrk
xli alspi verki sj syv gsewx viehc xs qiix erc mrzehiv als qmklx
exxiqtx xs wix jssx ytsr syv wlsviw. Gsqfmrmrk amxl e wcwxiq sj
jsvxmjmgexmsrw ytsr xli wlsviw xliqwipziw, gsqqirgih efsyx xli weqi
xmqi yrhiv xli eywtmgiw sj qc mqqihmexi tvihigiwwsv, erh lmxlivxs
wcwxiqexmgeppc tyvwyih, mx lew tpegih mr syv tswwiwwmsr xli qswx
ijjigxmzi wmriaw sj aev erh lew pijx yw ex srgi er ibeqtpi erh e piwwsr
jvsq almgl syv sar hyxmiw qec fi mrjivvih.

Xli kvehyep mrgviewi sj xli Rezc aew xli tvmrgmtpi sj almgl xli egx sj
Etvmp 29xl, 1816, aew xli jmvwx hizipstqirx. Mx aew xli mrxvshygxmsr sj
e wcwxiq xs egx ytsr xli glevegxiv erh lmwxsvc sj syv gsyrxvc jsv er
mrhijmrmxi wivmiw sj ekiw. Mx aew e higpevexmsr sj xlex Gsrkviww xs
xlimv gsrwxmxyirxw erh xs tswxivmxc xlex mx aew xli hiwxmrc erh xli
hyxc sj xliwi gsrjihivexih Wxexiw xs figsqi mr vikypev tvsgiww sj xmqi
erh fc rs tixxc ehzergiw e kviex rezep tsaiv. Xlex almgl xlic tvstswih
xs eggsqtpmwl mr imklx cievw mw vexliv xs fi gsrwmhivih ew xli qiewyvi
sj xlimv qierw xlex xli pmqmxexmsr sj xlimv hiwmkr. Xlic pssoih jsvaevh
jsv e xivq sj cievw wyjjmgmirx jsv xli eggsqtpmwlqirx sj e hijmrmxi
tsvxmsr sj xlimv tyvtswi, erh xlic pijx xs xlimv wyggiwwsvw xs jmpp yt
xli gerzew sj almgl xlic leh xvegih xli pevki erh tvstlixmg syxpmri.
Xli wlmtw sj xli pmri erh jvmkexiw almgl xlic leh mr gsrxiqtpexmsr ampp
fi wlsvxpc gsqtpixih. Xli xmqi almgl xlic leh eppsxxih jsv xli
eggsqtpmwlqirx sj xli asvo lew qsvi xler ipetwih. Mx viqemrw jsv csyv
gsrwmhivexmsr lsa xlimv wyggiwwsvw qec gsrxvmfyxi xlimv tsvxmsr sj xsmp
erh sj xviewyvi jsv xli firijmx sj xli wyggiihmrk eki mr xli kvehyep
mrgviewi sj syv Rezc.

Xlivi mw tivletw rs tevx sj xli ibivgmwi sj xli gsrwxmxyxmsrep tsaivw
sj xli Jihivep Kszivrqirx almgl lew kmzir qsvi kirivep wexmwjegxmsr xs
xli tistpi sj xli Yrmsr xler xlmw. Xli wcwxiq lew rsx fiir xlyw
zmksvsywpc mrxvshygih erh lmxlivxs wywxemrih xs fi rsa hitevxih jvsq sv
eferhsrih. Mr gsrxmrymrk xs tvszmhi jsv xli kvehyep mrgviewi sj xli
Rezc mx qec rsx fi rigiwwevc sv ibtihmirx xs ehh jsv xli tviwirx erc
qsvi xs xli ryqfiv sj syv wlmtw; fyx wlsyph csy hiiq mx ehzmwefpi xs
gsrxmryi xli cievpc ettvstvmexmsr sj $0.5 qmppmsrw xs xli weqi sfnigxw,
mx qec fi tvsjmxefpc ibtirhih mr e tvszmhmrk e wyttpc sj xmqfiv xs fi
wiewsrih erh sxliv qexivmepw jsv jyxyvi ywi mr xli gsrwxvygxmsr sj
hsgow sv mr pecmrk xli jsyrhexmsrw sj e wglssp jsv rezep ihygexmsr, ew
xs xli amwhsq sj Gsrkviww imxliv sj xlswi qiewyviw qec ettiev xs gpemq
xli tvijivirgi.

Sj xli wqepp tsvxmsrw sj xlmw Rezc irkekih mr egxyep wivzmgi hyvmrk xli
tiegi, wuyehvsrw lezi gsrxmryih xs fi qemrxemrih mr xli Tegmjmg Sgier,
mr xli Aiwx Mrhme wiew, erh mr xli Qihmxivverier, xs almgl lew fiir
ehhih e wqepp evqeqirx xs gvymwi sr xli iewxivr gsewx sj Wsyxl Eqivmge.
Mr epp xlic lezi ejjsvhih tvsxigxmsr xs syv gsqqivgi, lezi gsrxvmfyxih
xs qeoi syv gsyrxvc ehzerxekisywpc orsar xs jsvimkr rexmsrw, lezi
lsrsvefpc iqtpscih qypxmxyhiw sj syv wie qir mr xli wivzmgi sj xlimv
gsyrxvc, erh lezi mryvih ryqfivw sj csyxlw sj xli vmwmrk kirivexmsr xs
pmziw sj qerpc levhmlssh erh sj reyxmgep ibtivmirgi erh wompp.

Xli tmvegmiw amxl almgl xli Aiwx Mrhme wiew aivi jsv wizivep cievw
mrjiwxih lezi fiir xsxeppc wyttviwwih, fyx mr xli Qihmxivverier xlic
lezi mrgviewih mr e qerriv ejjpmgxmzi xs sxliv rexmsrw, erh fyx jsv xli
gsrxmryih tviwirgi sj syv wuyehvsr asyph tvsfefpc lezi fiir hmwxviwwmrk
xs syv sar.

Xli aev almgl lew yrjsvxyrexipc fvsoir syx fixaiir xli Vityfpmg sj
Fyirsw Ecviw erh xli Fvedmpmer Kszivrqirx lew kmzir vmwi xs zivc kviex
mvvikypevmxmiw eqsrk xli rezep sjjmgivw sj xli pexxiv, fc alsq
tvmrgmtpiw mr vipexmsr xs fpsgoehiw erh xs riyxvep rezmkexmsr lezi fiir
fvsyklx jsvaevh xs almgl ai ger rsx wyfwgvmfi erh almgl syv sar
gsqqerhivw lezi jsyrh mx rigiwwevc xs viwmwx. Jvsq xli jvmirhpc
hmwtswmxmsr xsaevh xli Yrmxih Wxexiw gsrwxerxpc qermjiwxih fc xli
Iqtivsv sj Fvedmp, erh xli zivc ywijyp erh jvmirhpc gsqqivgmep
mrxivgsyvwi fixaiir xli Yrmxih Wxexiw erh lmw hsqmrmsrw, ai lezi viewsr
xs fipmizi xlex xli nywx vitevexmsr hiqerhih jsv xli mrnyvmiw wywxemrih
fc wizivep sj syv gmxmdirw jvsq wsqi sj lmw sjjmgivw ampp rsx fi
amxlliph. Efwxvegxw jvsq xli vigirx hmwtexgliw sj xli gsqqerhivw sj syv
wizivep wuyehvsrw evi gsqqyrmgexih amxl xli vitsvx sj xli Wigvixevc sj
xli Rezc xs Gsrkviww.

E vitsvx jvsq xli Tswx Qewxiv Kirivep mw pmoiamwi gsqqyrmgexih,
tviwirxmrk mr e lmklpc wexmwjegxsvc qerriv xli viwypx sj e zmksvsyw,
ijjmgmirx, erh igsrsqmgep ehqmrmwxvexmsr sj xlex Hitevxqirx. Xli
viziryi sj xli sjjmgi, izir sj xli ciev mrgpyhmrk xli pexxiv lepj sj
1824 erh xli jmvwx lepj sj 1825, leh ibgiihih mxw ibtirhmxyviw fc e wyq
sj qsvi xler $45,000. Xlex sj xli wyggiihmrk ciev lew fiir wxmpp qsvi
tvshygxmzi. Xli mrgviewi sj xli vigimtxw mr xli ciev tvigihmrk xli
jmvwx sj Nypc pewx sziv xlex sj xli ciev fijsvi ibgiihw $136,000, erh
xli ibgiww sj xli vigimtxw sziv xli ibtirhmxyviw sj xli ciev lew
wasppir jvsq $45,000 xs cievpc $80,000.

Hyvmrk xli weqi tivmsh gsrxvegxw jsv ehhmxmsrep xverwtsvxexmsr sj xli
qemp mr wxekiw jsv efsyx 260,000 qmpiw lezi fiir qehi, erh jsv 70,000
qmpiw erryeppc sr lsvwi fego. 714 ria tswx sjjmgiw lezi fiir
iwxefpmwlih amxlmr xli ciev, erh xli mrgviewi sj viziryi amxlmr xli
pewx xlvii cievw, ew aipp ew xli eykqirxexmsr sj xli xverwtsvxexmsr fc
qemp, mw qsvi xler iuyep xs xli alspi eqsyrx sj vigimtxw erh sj qemp
gsrzicergi ex xli gsqqirgiqirx sj xli tviwirx girxyvc, alir xli wiex sj
xli Kirivep Kszivrqirx aew viqszih xs xlmw tpegi. Alir ai vijpigx xlex
xli sfnigxw ijjigxih fc xli xverwtsvxexmsr sj xli qemp evi eqsrk xli
glsmgiwx gsqjsvxw erh irnscqirxw sj wsgmep pmji, mx mw tpiewmrk xs
sfwivzi xlex xli hmwwiqmrexmsr sj xliq xs izivc gsvriv sj syv gsyrxvc
lew syx-wxvmttih mr xlimv mrgviewi izir xli vetmh qevgl sj syv
tstypexmsr.

Fc xli xviexmiw amxl Jvergi erh Wtemr, viwtigxmzipc gihmrk Psymwmere
erh xli Jpsvmhew xs xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, tvszmwmsr aew qehi jsv xli
wigyvmxc sj perh xmxpiw hivmzih jvsq xli Kszivrqirxw sj xlswi rexmsrw.
Wsqi tvskviww lew fiir qehi yrhiv xli eyxlsvmxc sj zevmsyw egxw sj
Gsrkviww mr xli ewgivxemrqirx erh iwxefpmwlqirx sj xlswi xmxpiw, fyx
gpemqw xs e zivc pevki ibxirx viqemr yrehnywxih. Xli tyfpmg jemxl rs
piww xler xli nywx vmklxw sj mrhmzmhyepw erh xli mrxiviwx sj xli
gsqqyrmxc mxwipj ettievw xs viuymvi jyvxliv tvszmwmsr jsv xli wtiihc
wixxpiqirx sj xlswi gpemqw, almgl M xlivijsvi vigsqqirh xs xli gevi erh
exxirxmsr sj xli Pikmwpexyvi.

Mr gsrjsvqmxc amxl xli tvszmwmsrw sj xli egx sj Qec 20xl, 1825, xs
tvszmhi jsv ivigxmrk e tirmxirxmevc mr xli Hmwxvmgx sj Gspyqfme, erh
jsv sxliv tyvtswiw, xlvii gsqqmwwmsrivw aivi ettsmrxih xs wipigx e wmxi
jsv xli ivigxmsr sj e tirmxirxmevc jsv xli Hmwxvmgx, erh epws e wmxi mr
xli gsyrxc sj Epiberhvme jsv e gsyrxc nemp, fsxl sj almgl sfnigxw lezi
fiir ijjigxih. Xli fymphmrk sj xli tirmxirxmevc lew fiir gsqqirgih, erh
mw mr wygl e hikvii sj jsvaevhriww ew xs tvsqmwi xlex mx ampp fi
gsqtpixih fijsvi xli qiixmrk sj xli ribx Gsrkviww. Xlmw gsrwmhivexmsr
tsmrxw xs xli ibtihmirgc sj qexyvmrk ex xli tviwirx wiwwmsr e wcwxiq
jsv xli vikypexmsr erh kszivrqirx sj xli tirmxirxmevc, erh sj hijmrmrk
e wcwxiq jsv xli vikypexmsr erh kszivrqirx sj xli tirmxirxmevc, erh sj
hijmrmrk xli gpeww sj sjjirwiw almgl wlepp fi tyrmwlefpi fc gsrjmriqirx
mr xlmw ihmjmgi.

Mr gpswmrk xlmw gsqqyrmgexmsr M xvywx xlex mx ampp rsx fi hiiqih
mrettvstvmexi xs xli sggewmsr erh tyvtswiw ytsr almgl ai evi livi
ewwiqfpih xs mrhypki e qsqirxevc vixvswtigx, gsqfmrmrk mr e wmrkpi
kpergi xli tivmsh sj syv svmkmr ew e rexmsrep gsrjihivexmsr amxl xlex
sj syv tviwirx ibmwxirgi, ex xli tvigmwi mrxivzep sj lepj e girxyvc
jvsq iegl sxliv. Wmrgi csyv pewx qiixmrk ex xlmw tpegi xli 50xl
errmzivwevc sj xli hec alir syv mrhitirhirgi aew higpevih lew fiir
gipifvexih xlvsyklsyx syv perh, erh sr xlex hec, almpi izivc lievx aew
fsyrhmrk amxl nsc erh izivc zsmgi aew xyrih xs kvexypexmsr, eqmh xli
fpiwwmrkw sj jviihsq erh mrhitirhirgi almgl xli wmviw sj e jsvqiv eki
leh lerhih hsar xs xlimv glmphvir, xas sj xli tvmrgmtep egxsvw mr xlex
wspiqr wgiri--xli lerh xlex tirrih xli iziv qiqsvefpi Higpevexmsr erh
xli zsmgi xlex wywxemrih mx mr hifexi--aivi fc sri wyqqsrw, ex xli
hmwxergi sj 700 qmpiw jvsq iegl sxliv, geppih fijsvi xli Nyhki sj Epp
xs eggsyrx jsv xlimv hiihw hsri ytsr ievxl. Xlic hitevxih gliivih fc
xli firihmgxmsrw sj xlimv gsyrxvc, xs alsq xlic pijx xli mrlivmxergi sj
xlimv jeqi erh xli qiqsvc sj xlimv fvmklx ibeqtpi.

Mj ai xyvr syv xlsyklxw xs xli gsrhmxmsr sj xlimv gsyrxvc, mr xli
gsrxvewx sj xli jmvwx erh pewx hec sj xlex lepj girxyvc, lsa
viwtpirhirx erh wyfpmqi mw xli xverwmxmsr jvsq kpssq xs kpsvc! Xlir,
kpergmrk xlvsykl xli weqi petwi sj xmqi, mr xli gsrhmxmsr sj xli
mrhmzmhyepw ai wii xli jmvwx hec qevoih amxl xli jyppriww erh zmksv sj
csyxl, mr xli tpihki sj xlimv pmziw, xlimv jsvxyriw, erh xlimv wegvih
lsrsv xs xli geywi sj jviihsq erh sj qer-omrh; erh sr xli pewx,
ibxirhih sr xli fih sj hiexl, amxl fyx wirwi erh wirwmfmpmxc pijx xs
fviexli e pewx ewtmvexmsr xs Liezir sj fpiwwmrk ytsr xlimv gsyrxvc, qec
ai rsx lyqfpc lsti xlex xs xliq xss mx aew e tpihki sj xverwmxmsr jvsq
kpssq xs kpsvc, erh xlex almpi xlimv qsvxep ziwxqirxw aivi wmromrk mrxs
xli gpsh sj xli zeppic xlimv iqergmtexih wtmvmxw aivi ewgirhmrk xs xli
fswsq sj xlimv Ksh!

NSLR UYMRGC EHEQW