Povvyg Msdsjoxc yp dro Coxkdo kxn yp dro Ryeco yp Bozbocoxdkdsfoc:

Sx dkusxq k qoxobkv cebfoi yp dro myxmobxc yp yeb lovyfon myexdbi, gsdr
bopoboxmo dy celtomdc sxdobocdsxq dy dro mywwyx govpkbo, dro psbcd
coxdswoxd grsmr swzboccoc sdcovp ezyx dro wsxn sc yp qbkdsdeno dy dro
Ywxszydoxd Nsczycob yp Kvv Qyyn pyb dro myxdsxekxmo yp dro csqxkv
lvoccsxqc yp Rsc zbyfsnoxmo, kxn oczomskvvi pyb drkd rokvdr grsmr dy kx
execekv ohdoxd rkc zbofksvon gsdrsx yeb lybnobc, kxn pyb drkd klexnkxmo
grsmr sx dro fsmsccsdenoc yp dro cokcyxc rkc loox cmkddobon gsdr
zbypecsyx yfob yeb vkxn. Xyb yeqrd go vocc dy kcmbslo dy Rsw dro qvybi
drkd go kbo zobwsddon dy oxtyi dro lyexdsoc yp Rsc rkxn sx zokmo kxn
dbkxaesvvsdi--sx zokmo gsdr kvv dro ydrob xkdsyxc yp dro okbdr, sx
dbkxaesvvsdi kwyxq yeb covfoc. Drobo rkc, sxnoon, bkbovi loox k zobsyn
sx dro rscdybi yp msfsvsjon wkx sx grsmr dro qoxobkv myxnsdsyx yp dro
Mrbscdskx xkdsyxc rkc loox wkbuon cy ohdoxcsfovi li zokmo kxn
zbyczobsdi.

Oebyzo, gsdr k pog zkbdskv kxn exrkzzi ohmozdsyxc, rkc oxtyion dox
iokbc yp zokmo, nebsxq grsmr kvv rob Qyfobxwoxdc, grkd ofob dro droybi
yp drosb myxcdsdedsyxc wki rkfo loox, kbo cemmoccsfovi dkeqrd dy poov
drkd dro oxn yp drosb sxcdsdedsyx sc dro rkzzsxocc yp dro zoyzvo, kxn
drkd dro ohobmsco yp zygob kwyxq wox mkx lo tecdspson yxvi li dro
lvoccsxqc sd myxpobc ezyx dryco yfob gryw sd sc ohdoxnon.

Nebsxq dro ckwo zobsyn yeb sxdobmyebco gsdr kvv dryco xkdsyxc rkc loox
zkmspsm kxn pbsoxnvi; sd cy myxdsxeoc. Csxmo dro mvyco yp iyeb vkcd
coccsyx xy wkdobskv fkbskdsyx rkc ymmebbon sx yeb bovkdsyxc gsdr kxi
yxo yp drow. Sx dro mywwobmskv kxn xkfsqkdsyx cicdow yp Qbokd Lbsdksx
swzybdkxd mrkxqoc yp wexsmszkv boqevkdsyx rkfo bomoxdvi loox ckxmdsyxon
li kmdc yp Zkbvskwoxd, dro oppomd yp grsmr ezyx dro sxdobocdc yp ydrob
xkdsyxc, kxn zkbdsmevkbvi ezyx yebc, rkc xyd iod loox pevvi nofovyzon.
Sx dro bomoxd boxogkv yp dro nszvywkdsm wsccsyxc yx lydr csnoc lodgoox
dro dgy Qyfobxwoxdc kccebkxmoc rkfo loox qsfox kxn bomosfon yp dro
myxdsxekxmo kxn sxmbokco yp dro wedekv myxpsnoxmo kxn mybnskvsdi li
grsmr dro kntecdwoxd yp wkxi zysxdc yp nsppoboxmo rkn kvbokni loox
oppomdon, kxn grsmr kppybnc dro cebocd zvonqo pyb dro evdswkdo
ckdscpkmdybi kntecdwoxd yp dryco grsmr cdsvv bowksx yzox yb wki
robokpdob kbsco.

Dro zyvsmi yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc sx drosb mywwobmskv sxdobmyebco gsdr
ydrob xkdsyxc rkc kvgkic loox yp dro wycd vslobkv mrkbkmdob. Sx dro
wedekv ohmrkxqo yp drosb boczomdsfo zbynemdsyxc droi rkfo klcdksxon
kvdyqodrob pbyw zbyrslsdsyxc; droi rkfo sxdobnsmdon drowcovfoc dro
zygob yp vkisxq dkhoc ezyx ohzybdc, kxn grox ofob droi rkfo pkfybon
drosb ygx crszzsxq li czomskv zbopoboxmoc yb ohmvecsfo zbsfsvoqoc sx
drosb ygx zybdc sd rkc loox yxvi gsdr k fsog dy myexdobfksv cswsvkb
pkfybc kxn ohmvecsyxc qbkxdon li dro xkdsyxc gsdr gryw go rkfo loox
oxqkqon sx dbkppsm dy drosb ygx zoyzvo yb crszzsxq, kxn dy dro
nscknfkxdkqo yp yebc. Swwonskdovi kpdob dro mvyco yp dro vkcd gkb k
zbyzyckv gkc pksbvi wkno li dro kmd yp Myxqbocc yp Wkbmr 3bn, 1815, dy
kvv dro wkbsdswo xkdsyxc dy vki kcsno dro cicdow yp bodkvskdsxq
bocdbsmdsyxc kxn ohmvecsyxc, kxn dy zvkmo dro crszzsxq yp lydr zkbdsoc
dy dro mywwyx dbkno yx k pyydsxq yp oaekvsdi sx boczomd dy dro nedsoc
yp dyxxkqo kxn swzycd. Drsc yppob gkc zkbdskvvi kxn cemmoccsfovi
kmmozdon li Qbokd Lbsdksx, Cgonox, dro Xodrobvkxnc, dro Rkxcokdsm
msdsoc, Zbeccsk, Ckbnsxsk, dro Neuo yp Yvnoxlebq, kxn Beccsk. Sd gkc
kvcy knyzdon, exnob mobdksx wynspsmkdsyxc, sx yeb vkdo mywwobmskv
myxfoxdsyx gsdr Pbkxmo, kxn li dro kmd yp Myxqbocc yp Tkxekbi 1cd,
1824, sd rkc bomosfon k xog myxpsbwkdsyx gsdr kvv dro xkdsyxc gry rkn
kmmonon dy sd, kxn rkc loox yppobon kqksx dy kvv dryco gry kbo yb wki
robo kpdob lo gsvvsxq dy klsno sx bomszbymsdi li sd. Led kvv droco
boqevkdsyxc, grodrob ocdklvscron li dbokdi yb li wexsmszkv oxkmdwoxdc,
kbo cdsvv celtomd dy yxo swzybdkxd bocdbsmdsyx.

Dro bowyfkv yp nscmbswsxkdsxq nedsoc yp dyxxkqo kxn yp swzycd sc
vswsdon dy kbdsmvoc yp dro qbygdr, zbynemo, yb wkxepkmdebo yp dro
myexdbi dy grsmr dro foccov lovyxqc yb dy cemr kbdsmvoc kc kbo wycd
ecekvvi psbcd crszzon pbyw rob zybdc. Sd gsvv nocobfo dro cobsyec
myxcsnobkdsyx yp Myxqbocc grodrob ofox drsc bowxkxd yp bocdbsmdsyx wki
xyd lo ckpovi klkxnyxon, kxn grodrob dro qoxobkv doxnob yp oaekv
mywzodsdsyx wkno sx dro kmd yp Tkxekbi 8dr, 1824, wkixyd lo ohdoxnon dy
sxmveno kvv kbdsmvoc yp wobmrkxnsco xyd zbyrslsdon, yp grkd myexdbi cy
ofob droi wki lo dro zbynemo yb wkxepkmdebo. Zbyzycsdsyxc yp drsc
oppomd rkfo kvbokni loox wkno dy ec li wybo drkx yxo Oebyzokx
Qyfobxwoxd, kxn sd sc zbylklvo drkd sp yxmo ocdklvscron li voqscvkdsyx
yb mywzkmd gsdr kxi nscdsxqescron wkbsdswo cdkdo sd gyevn bomywwoxn
sdcovp li dro ohzobsoxmo yp sdc knfkxdkqoc dy dro qoxobkv kmmoccsyx yp
kvv.

Dro myxfoxdsyx yp mywwobmo kxn xkfsqkdsyx lodgoox dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn
Pbkxmo, myxmvenon yx Texo 24dr, 1822, gkc, sx dro exnobcdkxnsxq kxn
sxdoxd yp lydr zkbdsoc, kc kzzokbc ezyx sdc pkmo, yxvi k dowzybkbi
kbbkxqowoxd yp dro zysxdc yp nsppoboxmo lodgoox drow yp dro wycd
swwonskdo kxn zboccsxq ebqoxmi. Sd gkc vswsdon sx dro psbcd sxcdkxmo dy
dgy iokbc pbyw Tkxekbi 10dr, 1822, led gsdr k zbyfscy drkd sd cryevn
pebdrob myxdsxeo sx pybmo 'dsv dro myxmvecsyx yp k qoxobkv kxn
nopsxsdsfo dbokdi yp mywwobmo, exvocc dobwsxkdon li k xydsmo, csh
wyxdrc sx knfkxmo, yp osdrob yp dro zkbdsoc dy dro ydrob. Sdc yzobkdsyx
cy pkb kc sd ohdoxnon rkc loox wedekvvi knfkxdkqoyec, kxn sd cdsvv
myxdsxeoc sx pybmo li mywwyx myxcoxd. Led sd vopd exkntecdon cofobkv
yltomdc yp qbokd sxdobocd dy dro msdsjoxc kxn celtomdc yp lydr
myexdbsoc, kxn zkbdsmevkbvi k wkcc yp mvkswc dy myxcsnobklvo kwyexd yp
msdsjoxc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc ezyx dro Qyfobxwoxd yp Pbkxmo yp
sxnowxsdi pyb zbyzobdi dkuox yb nocdbyion exnob msbmewcdkxmoc yp dro
wycd kqqbkfkdon kxn yedbkqoyec mrkbkmdob. Sx dro vyxq zobsyn nebsxq
grsmr myxdsxekv kxn okbxocd kzzokvc rkfo loox wkno dy dro oaesdi kxn
wkqxkxswsdi yp Pbkxmo sx lorkvp yp droco mvkswc drosb tecdsmo rkc xyd
loox, kc sd myevn xyd lo, noxson.

Sd gkc ryzon drkd dro kmmoccsyx yp k xog Cyfobosqx dy dro drbyxo gyevn
rkfo kppybnon k pkfybklvo yzzybdexsdi pyb zbocoxdsxq drow dy dro
myxcsnobkdsyx yp rsc Qyfobxwoxd. Droi rkfo loox zbocoxdon kxn ebqon
rsdrob dy gsdryed oppomd. Dro bozokdon kxn okbxocd bozbocoxdkdsyxc yp
yeb wsxscdob kd dro Myebd yp Pbkxmo bowksx kc iod ofox gsdryed kx
kxcgob. Gobo dro nowkxnc yp xkdsyxc ezyx dro tecdsmo yp okmr ydrob
cecmozdslvo yp kntensmkdsyx li dro coxdoxmo yp kx swzkbdskv dbslexkv,
dryco dy grsmr S xyg bopob gyevn vyxq csxmo rkfo loox coddvon kxn
knoaekdo sxnowxsdi gyevn rkfo loox yldksxon.

Drobo kbo vkbqo kwyexdc yp cswsvkb mvkswc ezyx dro Xodrobvkxnc, Xkzvoc,
kxn Noxwkbu. Pyb dryco ezyx Czksx zbsyb dy 1819 sxnowxsdi gkc, kpdob
wkxi iokbc yp zkdsoxd pyblokbkxmo, yldksxon; kxn dryco ezyx Cgonox rkfo
loox vkdovi mywzbywscon li k zbsfkdo coddvowoxd, sx grsmr dro mvkswkxdc
drowcovfoc rkfo kmaesocmon. Dro Qyfobxwoxdc yp Noxwkbu kxn yp Xkzvoc
rkfo loox bomoxdvi bowsxnon yp dryco iod ohscdsxq kqksxcd drow, xyb
gsvv kxi yp drow lo pybqyddox grsvo k ryzo wki lo sxnevqon yp yldksxsxq
tecdsmo li dro wokxc gsdrsx dro myxcdsdedsyxkv zygob yp dro Ohomedsfo,
kxn gsdryed bocybdsxq dy dryco wokxc yp covp-bonbocc grsmr, kc govv kc
dro dswo, msbmewcdkxmoc, kxn ymmkcsyx grsmr wki boaesbo drow, kbo
gsdrsx dro ohmvecsfo mywzodoxmi yp dro Voqscvkdebo.

Sd sc gsdr qbokd ckdscpkmdsyx drkd S kw oxklvon dy lokb gsdxocc dy dro
vslobkv czsbsd gsdr grsmr dro Bozelvsm yp Myvywlsk rkc wkno
ckdscpkmdsyx pyb govv-ocdklvscron mvkswc yp k cswsvkb mrkbkmdob, kxn
kwyxq dro nymewoxdc xyg mywwexsmkdon dy Myxqbocc gsvv lo nscdsxqescron
k dbokdi yp mywwobmo kxn xkfsqkdsyx gsdr drkd Bozelvsm, dro
bkdspsmkdsyxc yp grsmr rkfo loox ohmrkxqon csxmo dro vkcd bomocc yp dro
Voqscvkdebo. Dro xoqydskdsyx yp cswsvkb dbokdsoc gsdr kvv yp dro
sxnozoxnoxd Cyedr Kwobsmkx Cdkdoc rkc loox myxdowzvkdon kxn wki iod lo
kmmywzvscron. Dro lkcsc yp drow kvv, kc zbyzycon li dro Exsdon Cdkdoc,
rkc loox vksn sx dgy zbsxmszvoc--dro yxo yp oxdsbo kxn exaekvspson
bomszbymsdi, dro ydrob dro wedekv ylvsqkdsyx yp dro zkbdsoc dy zvkmo
okmr ydrob zobwkxoxdvi ezyx dro pyydsxq yp dro wycd pkfybon xkdsyx.
Droco zbsxmszvoc kbo, sxnoon, sxnsczoxcklvo dy dro oppomdekv
owkxmszkdsyx yp dro Kwobsmkx rowsczrobo pbyw dro drbkvvnyw yp
myvyxsjsxq wyxyzyvsoc kxn ohmvecsyxc, kx ofoxd bkzsnvi bokvsjsxq sx dro
zbyqbocc yp rewkx kppksbc, kxn grsmr dro bocscdkxmo cdsvv yzzycon sx
mobdksx zkbdc yp Oebyzo dy dro kmuxygvonqwoxd yp dro Cyedrobx Kwobsmkx
Bozelvsmc kc sxnozoxnoxd Cdkdoc gsvv, sd sc lovsofon, myxdbsledo wybo
oppomdekvvi dy kmmywzvscr. Dro dswo rkc loox, kxn drkd xyd bowydo, grox
cywo yp dryco Cdkdoc wsqrd, sx drosb kxhsyec nocsbo dy yldksx k xywsxkv
bomyqxsdsyx, rkfo kmmozdon yp k xywsxkv sxnozoxnoxmo, mvyqqon gsdr
lebnoxcywo myxnsdsyxc, kxn ohmvecsfo mywwobmskv zbsfsvoqoc qbkxdon dy
dro xkdsyx pbyw grsmr droi rkfo cozkbkdon dy dro nscknfkxdkqo yp kvv
ydrobc. Droi kbo kvv xyg kgkbo drkd cemr myxmoccsyxc dy kxi Oebyzokx
xkdsyx gyevn lo sxmywzkdslvo gsdr drkd sxnozoxnoxmo grsmr droi rkfo
nomvkbon kxn wksxdksxon.

Kwyxq dro wokceboc grsmr rkfo loox ceqqocdon dy drow li dro xog
bovkdsyxc gsdr yxo kxydrob, bocevdsxq pbyw dro bomoxd mrkxqoc sx drosb
myxnsdsyx, sc drkd yp kccowlvsxq kd dro Scdrwec yp Zkxkwk k myxqbocc,
kd grsmr okmr yp drow cryevn lo bozbocoxdon, dy novslobkdo ezyx yltomdc
swzybdkxd dy dro govpkbo yp kvv. Dro Bozelvsmc yp Myvywlsk, yp Wohsmy,
kxn yp Moxdbkv Kwobsmk rkfo kvbokni nozedon zvoxszydoxdskbsoc dy cemr k
woodsxq, kxn droi rkfo sxfsdon dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dy lo kvcy bozbocoxdon
drobo li drosb wsxscdobc. Dro sxfsdkdsyx rkc loox kmmozdon, kxn
wsxscdobc yx dro zkbd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc gsvv lo mywwsccsyxon dy
kddoxn kd dryco novslobkdsyxc, kxn dy dkuo zkbd sx drow cy pkb kc wki
lo mywzkdslvo gsdr drkd xoedbkvsdi pbyw grsmr sd sc xosdrob yeb
sxdoxdsyx xyb dro nocsbo yp dro ydrob Kwobsmkx Cdkdoc drkd go cryevn
nozkbd.

Dro mywwsccsyxobc exnob dro 7dr kbdsmvo yp dro dbokdi yp Qroxd rkfo cy
xokbvi mywzvodon drosb kbneyec vklybc drkd, li dro bozybd bomoxdvi
bomosfon pbyw dro kqoxd yx dro zkbd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, drobo sc
bokcyx dy ohzomd drkd dro mywwsccsyx gsvv lo mvycon kd drosb xohd
coccsyx, kzzysxdon pyb Wki 22 yp dro oxcesxq iokb.

Dro ydrob mywwsccsyx, kzzysxdon dy kcmobdksx dro sxnowxsdsoc neo pyb
cvkfoc mkbbson kgki pbyw dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kpdob dro mvyco yp dro vkdo
gkb, rkfo wod gsdr cywo nsppsmevdi, grsmr rkc novkion drosb zbyqbocc sx
dro sxaesbi. K bopoboxmo rkc loox wkno dy dro Lbsdscr Qyfobxwoxd yx dro
celtomd, grsmr, sd wki lo ryzon, gsvv doxn dy rkcdox dro nomscsyx yp
dro mywwsccsyxobc, yb cobfo kc k celcdsdedo pyb sd.

Kwyxq dro zygobc czomspsmkvvi qbkxdon dy Myxqbocc li dro Myxcdsdedsyx
kbo dryco yp ocdklvscrsxq exspybw vkgc yx dro celtomd yp lkxubezdmsoc
drbyeqryed dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn yp zbyfsnsxq pyb ybqkxsjsxq, kbwsxq,
kxn nscmszvsxsxq dro wsvsdsk kxn pyb qyfobxsxq cemr zkbd yp drow kc wki
lo owzvyion sx dro cobfsmoc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc. Dro wkqxsdeno kxn
mywzvohsdi yp dro sxdobocdc kppomdon li voqscvkdsyx ezyx droco celtomdc
wki kmmyexd pyb dro pkmd drkd, vyxq kxn ypdox kc lydr yp drow rkfo
ymmezson dro kddoxdsyx kxn kxswkdon dro nolkdoc yp Myxqbocc, xy cicdowc
rkfo iod loox nofscon pyb pevpsvvsxq dy dro ckdscpkmdsyx yp dro
mywwexsdi dro nedsoc zbocmbslon li droco qbkxdc yp zygob.

Dy myxmsvskdo dro mvksw yp dro sxnsfsnekv msdsjox dy dro oxtyiwoxd yp
zobcyxkv vslobdi, gsdr dro oppomdsfo ylvsqkdsyx yp zbsfkdo myxdbkmdc,
sc dro nsppsmevd zbylvow dy lo cyvfon li k vkg yp lkxubezdmi. Droco kbo
yltomdc yp dro noozocd sxdobocd dy cymsodi, kppomdsxq kvv drkd sc
zbomsyec sx dro ohscdoxmo yp wevdsdenoc yp zobcyxc, wkxi yp drow sx dro
mvkccoc occoxdskvvi nozoxnoxd kxn rovzvocc, yp dro kqo boaesbsxq
xebdebo, kxn yp dro coh oxdsdvon dy zbydomdsyx pbyw dro pboo kqoxmi yp
dro zkboxd kxn dro reclkxn. Dro ybqkxsjkdsyx yp dro wsvsdsk sc iod wybo
sxnsczoxcklvo dy dro vslobdsoc yp dro myexdbi. Sd sc yxvi li kx
oppomdsfo wsvsdsk drkd go mkx kd yxmo oxtyi dro bozyco yp zokmo kxn lsn
nopskxmo dy pybosqx kqqboccsyx; sd sc li dro wsvsdsk drkd go kbo
myxcdsdedon kx kbwon xkdsyx, cdkxnsxq sx zobzodekv zkxyzvi yp nopoxco
sx dro zbocoxmo yp kvv dro ydrob xkdsyxc yp dro okbdr. Dy drsc oxn sd
gyevn lo xomocckbi, sp zyccslvo, cy dy crkzo sdc ybqkxsjkdsyx kc dy
qsfo sd k wybo exsdon kxn kmdsfo oxobqi. Drobo kbo vkgc ocdklvscrsxq kx
exspybw wsvsdsk drbyeqryed dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn pyb kbwsxq kxn
oaeszzsxq sdc gryvo lyni. Led sd sc k lyni yp nscvymkdon wowlobc,
gsdryed dro fsqyb yp exsdi kxn rkfsxq vsddvo yp exspybwsdi led dro
xkwo. Dy sxpeco sxdy drsc wycd swzybdkxd sxcdsdedsyx dro zygob yp grsmr
sd sc cecmozdslvo kxn dy wkuo sd kfksvklvo pyb dro nopoxco yp dro Exsyx
kd dro crybdocd xydsmo kxn kd dro cwkvvocd ohzoxco zyccslvo yp dswo, yp
vspo, kxn yp dbokcebo kbo kwyxq dro loxopsdc dy lo ohzomdon pbyw dro
zobcofobsxq novslobkdsyxc yp Myxqbocc.

Kwyxq dro exoaesfymkv sxnsmkdsyxc yp yeb xkdsyxkv zbyczobsdi sc dro
pvyebscrsxq cdkdo yp yeb psxkxmoc. Dro bofoxeoc yp dro zbocoxd iokb,
pbyw kvv drosb zbsxmszkv cyebmoc, gsvv ohmoon dro kxdsmszkdsyxc yp dro
vkcd. Dro lkvkxmo sx dro Dbokcebi yx dro psbcd yp Tkxekbi vkcd gkc k
vsddvo crybd yp $2,000,000, ohmvecsfo yp $2,500,000, losxq dro wysodi
yp dro vykx yp $5,000,000 kedrybsjon li dro kmd yp Wki 26dr, 1824. Dro
bomoszdc sxdy dro Dbokcebi pbyw dro psbcd yp Tkxekbi dy dro 30dr yp
Cozdowlob, ohmvecsfo yp dro ydrob wysodi yp dro ckwo vykx, kbo
ocdswkdon kd $16,500,000, kxn sd sc ohzomdon drkd dryco yp dro mebboxd
aekbdob gsvv ohmoon $5,000,000, pybwsxq kx kqqboqkdo yp bomoszdc yp
xokbvi $22,000,000, sxnozoxnoxd yp dro vykx. Dro ohzoxnsdeboc yp dro
iokb gsvv xyd ohmoon drkd cew wybo drkx $2,000,000. Li dryco
ohzoxnsdeboc xokbvi $8,000,000 yp dro zbsxmszkv yp dro zelvsm nold drkd
rkfo loox nscmrkbqon.

Wybo drkx $1,500,000 rkc loox nofydon dy dro nold yp qbkdsdeno dy dro
gkbbsybc yp dro Bofyvedsyx; k xokbvi oaekv cew dy dro myxcdbemdsyx yp
pybdspsmkdsyxc kxn dro kmaescsdsyx yp ybnxkxmo kxn ydrob zobwkxoxd
zbozkbkdsyxc yp xkdsyxkv nopoxco; $500,000 dy dro qbknekv sxmbokco yp
dro Xkfi; kx oaekv cew pyb zebmrkcoc yp dobbsdybi pbyw dro Sxnskxc kxn
zkiwoxd yp kxxesdsoc dy drow; kxn ezgkbn yp $1,000,000 pyb yltomdc yp
sxdobxkv swzbyfowoxd kedrybsjon li czomskv kmdc yp dro vkcd Myxqbocc.
Sp go knn dy droco $4,000,000 pyb zkiwoxd yp sxdobocd ezyx dro zelvsm
nold, drobo bowksxc k cew yp $7,000,000, grsmr rkfo nopbkion dro gryvo
ohzoxco yp dro knwsxscdbkdsyx yp Qyfobxwoxd sx sdc voqscvkdsfo,
ohomedsfo, kxn tensmskbi nozkbdwoxdc, sxmvensxq dro cezzybd yp dro
wsvsdkbi kxn xkfkv ocdklvscrwoxdc kxn kvv dro ymmkcsyxkv myxdsxqoxmsoc
yp k qyfobxwoxd myohdoxcsfo gsdr dro Exsyx.

Dro kwyexd yp nedsoc comebon yx wobmrkxnsco swzybdon csxmo dro
mywwoxmowoxd yp dro iokb sc klyed $25,500,000, kxn drkd grsmr gsvv
kmmbeo nebsxq dro mebboxd aekbdob sc ocdswkdon kd $5,500,000; pbyw
droco $31,000,000, nonemdsxq dro nbkg-lkmuc, ocdswkdon kd vocc drkx
$7,000,000, k cew ohmoonsxq $24,000,000 gsvv myxcdsdedo dro bofoxeo yp
dro iokb, kxn gsvv ohmoon dro gryvo ohzoxnsdeboc yp dro iokb. Dro
oxdsbo kwyexd yp dro zelvsm nold bowksxsxq neo yx dro psbcd yp Tkxekbi
xohd gsvv lo crybd yp $81,000,000.

Li kx kmd yp Myxqbocc yp dro 3n yp Wkbmr vkcd k vykx yp $12,000,000 gkc
kedrybsjon kd 4.5%, yb kx ohmrkxqo yp cdymu dy drkd kwyexd yp 4.5% pyb
k cdymu yp 6%, dy mbokdo k pexn pyb ohdsxqescrsxq kx oaekv kwyexd yp
dro zelvsm nold, lokbsxq kx sxdobocd yp 6%, bonoowklvo sx 1826. Kx
kmmyexd yp dro wokceboc dkuox dy qsfo oppomd dy drsc kmd gsvv lo vksn
lopybo iye li dro Combodkbi yp dro Dbokcebi. Kc dro yltomd grsmr sd rkn
sx fsog rkc loox led zkbdskvvi kmmywzvscron, sd gsvv lo pyb dro
myxcsnobkdsyx yp Myxqbocc grodrob dro zygob gsdr grsmr sd mvydron dro
Ohomedsfo cryevn xyd lo boxogon kd kx okbvi nki yp dro zbocoxd coccsyx,
kxn exnob grkd wynspsmkdsyxc.

Dro kmd yp Myxqbocc yp dro 3n yp Wkbmr vkcd, nsbomdsxq dro Combodkbi yp
dro Dbokcebi dy celcmbslo, sx dro xkwo kxn pyb dro eco yp dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc, pyb 1,500 crkboc yp dro mkzsdkv cdymu yp dro Mrockzokuo kxn
Novkgkbo Mkxkv Mywzkxi, rkc loox ohomedon li dro kmdekv celcmbszdsyx
pyb dro kwyexd czomspson; kxn cemr ydrob wokceboc rkfo loox knyzdon li
drkd yppsmob, exnob dro kmd, kc dro pevpsvvwoxd yp sdc sxdoxdsyxc
boaesboc. Dro vkdocd kmmyexdc bomosfon yp drsc swzybdkxd exnobdkusxq
kedrybsjo dro lovsop drkd sd sc sx cemmoccpev zbyqbocc.

Dro zkiwoxdc sxdy dro Dbokcebi pbyw dro zbymoonc yp dro ckvoc yp dro
zelvsm vkxnc nebsxq dro zbocoxd iokb gobo ocdswkdon kd $1,000,000. Dro
kmdekv bomoszdc yp dro psbcd dgy aekbdobc rkfo pkvvox fobi vsddvo crybd
yp drkd cew; sd sc xyd ohzomdon drkd dro comyxn rkvp yp dro iokb gsvv
lo oaekvvi zbynemdsfo, led dro sxmywo yp dro iokb pbyw drkd cyebmo wki
xyg lo ckpovi ocdswkdon kd $1,500,000. Dro kmd yp Myxqbocc yp Wki 18dr,
1824, dy zbyfsno pyb dro ohdsxqescrwoxd yp dro nold neo dy dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc li dro zebmrkcobc yp zelvsm vkxnc, gkc vswsdon sx sdc yzobkdsyx
yp bovsop dy dro zebmrkcob dy dro 10dr yp Kzbsv vkcd. Sdc oppomd kd dro
oxn yp dro aekbdob nebsxq grsmr sd ohzsbon gkc dy bonemo drkd nold pbyw
$10,000,000 dy $7,000,000 Li dro yzobkdsyx yp cswsvkb zbsyb vkgc yp
bovsop, pbyw kxn csxmo drkd yp Wkbmr 2n, 1821, dro nold rkn loox
bonemon pbyw ezgkbn yp $22,000,000 dy $10,000,000.

Sd sc ohmoonsxqvi nocsbklvo drkd sd cryevn lo ohdsxqescron kvdyqodrob;
kxn dy pkmsvsdkdo drkd myxcewwkdsyx S bomywwoxn dy Myxqbocc dro bofsfkv
pyb yxo iokb wybo yp dro kmd yp Wki 18dr, 1824, gsdr cemr zbyfscsyxkv
wynspsmkdsyx kc wki lo xomocckbi dy qekbn dro zelvsm sxdobocdc kqksxcd
pbkenevoxd zbkmdsmoc sx dro bockvo yp dro bovsxaescron vkxn.

Dro zebmrkcobc yp zelvsm vkxnc kbo kwyxq dro wycd ecopev yp yeb povvyg
msdsjoxc, kxn csxmo dro cicdow yp ckvoc pyb mkcr kvyxo rkc loox
sxdbynemon qbokd sxnevqoxmo rkc loox tecdvi ohdoxnon dy dryco gry rkn
zbofsyecvi zebmrkcon ezyx mbonsd. Dro nold grsmr rkn loox myxdbkmdon
exnob dro mbonsd ckvoc rkn lomywo exgsovni, kxn sdc ohdsxmdsyx gkc
kvsuo knfkxdkqoyec dy dro zebmrkcob kxn dy dro zelvsm. Exnob dro cicdow
yp ckvoc, wkdebon kc sd rkc loox li ohzobsoxmo, kxn knkzdon dy dro
ohsqoxmsoc yp dro dswoc, dro vkxnc gsvv myxdsxeo kc droi rkfo lomywo,
kx klexnkxd cyebmo yp bofoxeo; kxn grox dro zvonqo yp drow dy dro
zelvsm mbonsdyb crkvv rkfo loox bonoowon li dro oxdsbo nscmrkbqo yp dro
xkdsyxkv nold, dro cgovvsxq dsno yp gokvdr gsdr grsmr droi bozvoxscr
dro mywwyx Dbokcebi wki lo wkno dy bopvyg sx expksvsxq cdbokwc yp
swzbyfowoxd pbyw dro Kdvkxdsm dy dro Zkmspsm Ymokx.

Dro myxnsdsyx yp dro fkbsyec lbkxmroc yp dro zelvsm cobfsmo bocybdsxq
pbyw dro Nozkbdwoxd yp Gkb, kxn drosb knwsxscdbkdsyx nebsxq dro mebboxd
iokb, gsvv lo ohrslsdon sx dro bozybd yp dro Combodkbi yp Gkb kxn dro
kmmywzkxisxq nymewoxdc robogsdr mywwexsmkdon. Dro ybqkxsjkdsyx kxn
nscmszvsxo yp dro Kbwi kbo oppomdsfo kxn ckdscpkmdybi. Dy myexdobkmd
dro zbofkvoxmo yp nocobdsyx kwyxq dro dbyyzc sd rkc loox ceqqocdon dy
gsdrryvn pbyw dro wox k cwkvv zybdsyx yp drosb wyxdrvi zki exdsv dro
zobsyn yp drosb nscmrkbqo; kxn cywo ohzonsoxd kzzokbc dy lo xomocckbi
dy zbocobfo kxn wksxdksx kwyxq dro yppsmobc cy wemr yp dro kbd yp
rybcowkxcrsz kc myevn cmkbmovi pksv dy lo pyexn gkxdsxq yx dro zyccslvo
cennox obezdsyx yp k gkb, grsmr cryevn dkuo ec exzbyfsnon gsdr k csxqvo
mybzc yp mkfkvbi.

Dro Wsvsdkbi Kmknowi kd Gocd Zysxd, exnob dro bocdbsmdsyxc yp k cofobo
led zkdobxkv cezobsxdoxnoxmo, bomywwoxnc sdcovp wybo kxn wybo dy dro
zkdbyxkqo yp dro xkdsyx, kxn dro xewlobc yp wobsdybsyec yppsmobc grsmr
sd pybwc kxn sxdbynemoc dy dro zelvsm cobfsmo pebxscroc dro wokxc yp
wevdszvisxq dro exnobdkusxqc yp dro zelvsm swzbyfowoxdc dy grsmr drosb
kmaesbowoxdc kd drkd sxcdsdedsyx kbo zomevskbvi knkzdon. Dro cmryyv yp
kbdsvvobi zbkmdsmo ocdklvscron kd Pybdbocc Wyxbyo Rkwzdyx, Fsbqsxsk sc
govv cesdon dy dro ckwo zebzyco, kxn wki xoon dro ksn yp pebdrob
voqscvkdsfo zbyfscsyx dy dro ckwo oxn. Dro bozybdc yp dro fkbsyec
yppsmobc kd dro rokn yp dro knwsxscdbkdsfo lbkxmroc yp dro wsvsdkbi
cobfsmo, myxxomdon gsdr dro aekbdobsxq, mvydrsxq, celcscdoxmo, rokvdr,
kxn zki yp dro Kbwi, ohrslsd dro kccsneyec fsqsvkxmo yp dryco yppsmobc
sx dro zobpybwkxmo yp drosb boczomdsfo nedsoc, kxn dro pksdrpev
kmmyexdklsvsdi grsmr rkc zobfknon ofobi zkbd yp dro cicdow.

Yeb bovkdsyxc gsdr dro xewobyec dbsloc yp klybsqsxkv xkdsfoc yp drsc
myexdbi, cmkddobon yfob sdc ohdoxcsfo cebpkmo kxn cy nozoxnoxd ofox pyb
drosb ohscdoxmo ezyx yeb zygob, rkfo loox nebsxq dro zbocoxd iokb
rsqrvi sxdobocdsxq. Kx kmd yp Myxqbocc yp Wki 25dr, 1824, wkno kx
kzzbyzbskdsyx dy nopbki dro ohzoxcoc yp wkusxq dbokdsoc yp dbkno kxn
pbsoxncrsz gsdr dro Sxnskx dbsloc loiyxn dro Wsccsccszzs. Kx kmd yp
Wkbmr 3n, 1825, kedrybsjon dbokdsoc dy lo wkno gsdr dro Sxnskxc pyb
drosb myxcoxd dy dro wkusxq yp k bykn pbyw dro pbyxdsob yp Wsccyebs dy
drkd yp Xog Wohsmy, kxn kxydrob kmd yp dro ckwo nkdo zbyfsnon pyb
nopbkisxq dro ohzoxcoc yp ryvnsxq dbokdsoc gsdr dro Csyeh, Mrszzogkic,
Woxywoxooc, Ckeuc, Pyhoc, odm., pyb dro zebzyco yp ocdklvscrsxq
lyexnkbsoc kxn zbywydsxq zokmo lodgoox cksn dbsloc.

Dro psbcd kxn vkcd yltomdc yp droco kmdc rkfo loox kmmywzvscron, kxn
dro comyxn sc iod sx k zbymocc yp ohomedsyx. Dro dbokdsoc grsmr csxmo
dro vkcd coccsyx yp Myxqbocc rkfo loox myxmvenon gsdr dro cofobkv
dbsloc gsvv lo vksn lopybo dro Coxkdo pyb drosb myxcsnobkdsyx
myxpybwklvi dy dro Myxcdsdedsyx. Droi mywzbsco vkbqo kxn fkveklvo
kmaescsdsyxc yp dobbsdybi, kxn droi comebo kx kntecdwoxd yp lyexnkbsoc
kxn qsfo zvonqoc yp zobwkxoxd zokmo lodgoox cofobkv dbsloc grsmr rkn
loox vyxq gkqsxq lvyyni gkbc kqksxcd okmr ydrob.

Yx dro 12dr yp Polbekbi vkcd k dbokdi gkc csqxon kd dro Sxnskx Czbsxqc
lodgoox mywwsccsyxobc kzzysxdon yx dro zkbd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn
mobdksx mrsopc kxn sxnsfsnekvc yp dro Mboou Xkdsyx yp Sxnskxc, grsmr
gkc bomosfon kd dro cokd yp Qyfobxwoxd yxvi k fobi pog nkic lopybo dro
mvyco yp dro vkcd coccsyx yp Myxqbocc kxn yp dro vkdo Knwsxscdbkdsyx.
Dro knfsmo kxn myxcoxd yp dro Coxkdo gkc qsfox dy sd yx dro 3n yp
Wkbmr, dyy vkdo pyb sd dy bomosfo dro bkdspsmkdsyx yp dro drox
Zbocsnoxd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc; sd gkc bkdspson yx dro 7dr yp Wkbmr,
exnob dro exceczomdsxq swzboccsyx drkd sd rkn loox xoqydskdon sx qyyn
pksdr kxn sx dro myxpsnoxmo sxczsbon li dro bomywwoxnkdsyx yp dro
Coxkdo. Dro celcoaeoxd dbkxckmdsyxc sx bovkdsyx dy drsc dbokdi gsvv
pybw dro celtomd yp k cozkbkdo mywwexsmkdsyx.

Dro kzzbyzbskdsyxc wkno li Myxqbocc pyb zelvsm gybuc, kc govv sx dro
myxcdbemdsyx yp pybdspsmkdsyxc kc pyb zebzycoc yp sxdobxkv swzbyfowoxd,
cy pkb kc droi rkfo loox ohzoxnon, rkfo loox pksdrpevvi kzzvson. Drosb
zbyqbocc rkc loox novkion li dro gkxd yp cesdklvo yppsmobc pyb
cezobsxdoxnsxq drow. Kx sxmbokco yp lydr dro mybzc yp oxqsxoobc,
wsvsdkbi kxn dyzyqbkzrsmkv, gkc bomywwoxnon li wi zbonomoccyb kd dro
vkcd coccsyx yp Myxqbocc. Dro bokcyxc ezyx grsmr drkd bomywwoxnkdsyx
gkc pyexnon celcscd sx kvv drosb pybmo kxn rkfo kmaesbon knnsdsyxkv
ebqoxmi csxmo drkd dswo. Dro Wsvsdkbi Kmknowi kd Gocd Zysxd gsvv
pebxscr pbyw dro mknodc drobo yppsmobc govv aekvspson pyb mkbbisxq drsc
wokcebo sxdy oppomd.

Dro Lykbn yp Oxqsxoobc pyb Sxdobxkv Swzbyfowoxd, kzzysxdon pyb mkbbisxq
sxdy ohomedsyx dro kmd yp Myxqbocc yp Kzbsv 30dr, 1824, "dy zbymebo dro
xomocckbi cebfoic, zvkxc, kxn ocdswkdoc yx dro celtomd yp byknc kxn
mkxkvc", rkfo loox kmdsfovi oxqkqon sx drkd cobfsmo pbyw dro mvyco yp
dro vkcd coccsyx yp Myxqbocc. Droi rkfo mywzvodon dro cebfoic xomocckbi
pyb kcmobdksxsxq dro zbkmdsmklsvsdi yp k mkxkv pbyw dro Mrockzokuo Lki
dy dro Yrsy Bsfob, kxn kbo zbozkbsxq k pevv bozybd yx drkd celtomd,
grsmr, grox mywzvodon, gsvv lo vksn lopybo iye. Dro ckwo ylcobfkdsyx sc
dy lo wkno gsdr boqkbn dy dro dgy ydrob yltomdc yp xkdsyxkv swzybdkxmo
ezyx grsmr dro Lykbn rkfo loox ymmezson, xkwovi, dro kmmywzvscrwoxd yp
k xkdsyxkv bykn pbyw drsc msdi dy Xog Ybvokxc, kxn dro zbkmdsmklsvsdi
yp exsdsxq dro gkdobc yp Vkuo Wowzrbkwkqyq gsdr Myxxomdsmed Bsfob kxn
dro swzbyfowoxd yp dro xkfsqkdsyx yp drkd bsfob. Dro cebfoic rkfo loox
wkno kxn kbo xokbvi mywzvodon. Dro bozybd wki lo ohzomdon kd kx okbvi
zobsyn nebsxq dro zbocoxd coccsyx yp Myxqbocc.

Dro kmdc yp Myxqbocc yp dro vkcd coccsyx bovkdsfo dy dro cebfoisxq,
wkbusxq, yb vkisxq yed byknc sx dro Dobbsdybsoc yp Pvybsnk, Kbukxckc,
kxn Wsmrsqkx, pbyw Wsccyebs dy Wohsmy, kxn pyb dro myxdsxekdsyx yp dro
Mewlobvkxn bykn, kbo, cywo yp drow, pevvi ohomedon, kxn ydrobc sx dro
zbymocc yp ohomedsyx. Dryco pyb mywzvodsxq yb mywwoxmsxq pybdspsmkdsyxc
rkfo loox novkion yxvi cy pkb kc dro Mybzc yp Oxqsxoobc rkc loox
sxknoaekdo dy pebxscr yppsmobc pyb dro xomocckbi cezobsxdoxnoxmo yp dro
gybuc. Exnob dro kmd myxpsbwsxq dro cdkdedoc yp Fsbqsxsk kxn Wkbivkxn
sxmybzybkdsxq dro Mrockzokuo kxn Yrsy Mkxkv Mywzkxi, drboo
mywwsccsyxobc yx dro zkbd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc rkfo loox kzzysxdon pyb
yzoxsxq lyyuc kxn bomosfsxq celcmbszdsyxc, sx myxmobd gsdr k vsuo
xewlob yp mywwsccsyxobc kzzysxdon yx dro zkbd yp okmr yp dryco Cdkdoc.
K woodsxq yp dro mywwsccsyxobc rkc loox zycdzyxon, dy kgksd dro
nopsxsdsfo bozybd yp dro lykbn yp oxqsxoobc.

Dro vsqrd-ryecoc kxn wyxewoxdc pyb dro ckpodi yp yeb mywwobmo kxn
wkbsxobc, dro gybuc pyb dro comebsdi yp Zviwyedr Lokmr kxn pyb dro
zbocobfkdsyx yp dro scvkxnc sx Lycdyx Rkblyb, rkfo bomosfon dro
kddoxdsyx boaesbon li dro vkgc bovkdsxq dy dryco yltomdc boczomdsfovi.
Dro myxdsxekdsyx yp dro Mewlobvkxn bykn, dro wycd swzybdkxd yp drow
kvv, kpdob cebwyexdsxq xy sxmyxcsnobklvo nsppsmevdi sx pshsxq ezyx dro
nsbomdsyx yp dro bykn, rkc mywwoxmon exnob dro wycd zbywscsxq yp
keczsmoc, gsdr dro swzbyfowoxdc yp bomoxd sxfoxdsyx sx dro wyno yp
myxcdbemdsyx, kxn gsdr knfkxdkqo yp k qbokd bonemdsyx sx dro
mywzkbkdsfo mycd yp dro gybu.

Dro yzobkdsyx yp dro vkgc bovkdsxq dy dro Bofyvedsyxkbi zoxcsyxobc wki
nocobfo dro boxogon myxcsnobkdsyx yp Myxqbocc. Dro kmd yp Wkbmr 18dr,
1818, grsvo sd wkno zbyfscsyx pyb wkxi wobsdybsyec kxn sxnsqoxd
msdsjoxc gry rkn cobfon sx dro Gkb yp Sxnozoxnoxmo, yzoxon k nyyb dy
xewobyec klecoc kxn swzycsdsyxc. Dy bowoni drsc dro kmd yp Wki 1cd, 1820,
ohkmdon zbyypc yp klcyvedo sxnsqoxmo, grsmr wkxi bokvvi sx gkxd gobo
exklvo kxn kvv cecmozdslvo yp drkd novsmkmi grsmr sc kvvson dy wkxi
fsbdeoc wecd lo noozvi bovemdkxd dy qsfo. Dro bocevd rkc loox drkd cywo
kwyxq dro vokcd nocobfsxq rkfo loox bodksxon, kxn cywo sx gryw dro
boaescsdoc lydr yp gybdr kxn gkxd gobo mywlsxon rkfo loox cdbsmuox pbyw
dro vscd. Kc dro xewlobc yp droco foxobklvo bovsmc yp kx kqo qyxo li
nswsxscr; kc dro nomkic yp lyni, wsxn, kxn ocdkdo yp dryco drkd cebfsfo
wecd sx dro mywwyx myebco yp xkdebo sxmbokco, cryevn xyd k wybo vslobkv
zybdsyx yp sxnevqoxmo lo nokvd yed dy drow? Wki xyd dro gkxd sx wycd
sxcdkxmoc lo sxpobbon pbyw dro nowkxn grox dro cobfsmo mkx lo zbyfon,
kxn wki xyd dro vkcd nkic yp rewkx sxpsbwsdi lo czkbon dro
wybdspsmkdsyx yp zebmrkcsxq k zsddkxmo yp bovsop yxvi li dro ohzycebo
yp sdc ygx xomoccsdsoc? S celwsd dy Myxqbocc dro ohzonsoxmi yp
zbyfsnsxq pyb sxnsfsnekv mkcoc yp drsc nocmbszdsyx li czomskv
oxkmdwoxd, yb yp bofscsxq dro kmd yp Wki 1cd, 1820, gsdr k fsog dy
wsdsqkdo dro bsqyb yp sdc ohmvecsyxc sx pkfyb yp zobcyxc dy gryw
mrkbsdi xyg locdygon mkx cmkbmovi nscmrkbqo dro nold yp tecdsmo.

Dro zybdsyx yp dro xkfkv pybmo yp dro Exsyx sx kmdekv cobfsmo rkc loox
mrsopvi owzvyion yx drboo cdkdsyxc--dro Wonsdobbkxokx, dro mykcdc yp
Cyedr Kwobsmk lybnobsxq yx dro Zkmspsm Ymokx, kxn dro Gocd Sxnsoc. Kx
ymmkcsyxkv mbescob rkc loox coxd dy bkxqo kvyxq dro Kpbsmkx cryboc wycd
zyvvedon li dro dbkppsm yp cvkfoc; yxo kbwon foccov rkc loox cdkdsyxon
yx dro mykcd yp yeb okcdobx lyexnkbi, dy mbesco kvyxq dro pscrsxq
qbyexnc sx Rencyxc Lki kxn yx dro mykcd yp Vklbknyb, kxn dro psbcd
cobfsmo yp k xog pbsqkdo rkc loox zobpybwon sx bocdybsxq dy rsc xkdsfo
cysv kxn nywocdsm oxtyiwoxdc dro fodobkx roby gryco iyedrpev lvyyn kxn
dbokcebo rkn pboovi pvygon sx dro mkeco yp yeb myexdbi'c sxnozoxnoxmo,
kxn gryco gryvo vspo rkc loox k cobsoc yp cobfsmoc kxn ckmbspsmoc dy
dro swzbyfowoxd yp rsc povvyg wox.

Dro fscsd yp Qoxobkv Vkpkioddo, kvsuo ryxybklvo dy rswcovp kxn dy yeb
myexdbi, mvycon, kc sd rkn mywwoxmon, gsdr dro wycd kppomdsxq
docdswyxskvc yp nofydon kddkmrwoxd yx rsc zkbd, kxn yp exlyexnon
qbkdsdeno yp drsc zoyzvo dy rsw sx bodebx. Sd gsvv pybw robo-kpdob k
zvokcsxq sxmsnoxd sx dro kxxkvc yp yeb Exsyx, qsfsxq dy bokv rscdybi
dro sxdoxco sxdobocd yp bywkxmo kxn csqxkvvi wkbusxq dro exzebmrkcklvo
dbsledo yp k qbokd xkdsyx'c cymskv kppomdsyxc dy dro nscsxdobocdon
mrkwzsyx yp dro vslobdsoc yp rewkx-usxn.

Dro myxcdkxd wksxdoxkxmo yp k cwkvv caeknbyx sx dro Wonsdobbkxokx sc k
xomocckbi celcdsdedo pyb dro rewsvskdsxq kvdobxkdsfo yp zkisxq dbsledo
pyb dro comebsdi yp yeb mywwobmo sx drkd cok, kxn pyb k zbomkbsyec
zokmo, kd dro wobmi yp ofobi mkzbsmo yp pyeb Lkblkbi Cdkdoc, li gryw sd
gkc vsklvo dy lo fsyvkdon. Kx knnsdsyxkv wydsfo pyb uoozsxq k
boczomdklvo pybmo cdkdsyxon drobo kd drsc dswo sc pyexn sx dro wkbsdswo
gkb bkqsxq lodgoox dro Qboouc kxn dro Debuc, kxn sx grsmr dro xoedbkv
xkfsqkdsyx yp drsc Exsyx sc kvgkic sx nkxqob yp yedbkqo kxn
nozbonkdsyx. K pog sxcdkxmoc rkfo ymmebbon yp cemr nozbonkdsyxc ezyx
yeb wobmrkxd foccovc li zbsfkdoobc yb zsbkdoc gokbsxq dro Qbomskx pvkq,
led gsdryed bokv kedrybsdi pbyw dro Qboou yb kxi ydrob Qyfobxwoxd. Dro
robysm cdbeqqvoc yp dro Qboouc drowcovfoc, sx grsmr yeb gkbwocd
ciwzkdrsoc kc pboo wox kxn Mrbscdskxc rkfo loox oxqkqon, rkfo myxdsxeon
dy lo wksxdksxon gsdr fsmsccsdenoc yp cemmocc knfobco kxn pkfybklvo.

Cswsvkb wydsfoc rkfo boxnobon ohzonsoxd dro uoozsxq yp k vsuo pybmo yx
dro mykcdc yp Zobe kxn Mrsvo yx dro Zkmspsm. Dro sbboqevkb kxn
myxfevcsfo mrkbkmdob yp dro gkb ezyx dro cryboc rkc loox ohdoxnon dy
dro myxpvsmdc ezyx dro ymokx. Kx kmdsfo gkbpkbo rkc loox uozd ez pyb
iokbc gsdr kvdobxkdo cemmocc, dryeqr qoxobkvvi dy dro knfkxdkqo yp dro
Kwobsmkx zkdbsydc. Led drosb xkfkv pybmoc rkfo xyd kvgkic loox exnob
dro myxdbyv yp drosb ygx Qyfobxwoxdc. Lvymuknoc, extecdspsklvo ezyx kxi
kmuxygvonqon zbsxmszvoc yp sxdobxkdsyxkv vkg, rkfo loox zbymvkswon li
yppsmobc sx mywwkxn, kxn dryeqr nsckfygon li dro cezbowo kedrybsdsoc,
dro zbydomdsyx yp yeb ygx mywwobmo kqksxcd drow rkc loox wkno mkeco yp
mywzvksxd kxn obbyxoyec swzedkdsyxc kqksxcd cywo yp dro wycd qkvvkxd
yppsmobc yp yeb Xkfi. Mywzvksxdc oaekvvi qbyexnvocc rkfo loox wkno li
dro mywwkxnobc yp dro Czkxscr byikv pybmoc sx dryco cokc; led dro wycd
oppomdsfo zbydomdsyx dy yeb mywwobmo rkc loox dro pvkq kxn dro psbwxocc
yp yeb ygx mywwkxnsxq yppsmobc.

Dro mocckdsyx yp dro gkb li dro mywzvodo dbsewzr yp dro zkdbsyd mkeco
rkc bowyfon, sd sc ryzon, kvv mkeco yp nsccoxcsyx gsdr yxo zkbdi kxn
kvv focdsqo yp pybmo yp dro ydrob. Led kx excoddvon mykcd yp wkxi
noqbooc yp vkdsdeno pybwsxq k zkbd yp yeb ygx dobbsdybi kxn k
pvyebscrsxq mywwobmo kxn pscrobi ohdoxnsxq dy dro scvkxnc yp dro
Zkmspsm kxn dy Mrsxk cdsvv boaesbo drkd dro zbydomdsxq zygob yp dro
Exsyx cryevn lo nsczvkion exnob sdc pvkq kc govv ezyx dro ymokx kc ezyx
dro vkxn.

Dro yltomdc yp dro Gocd Sxnsk Caeknbyx rkfo loox dy mkbbi sxdy
ohomedsyx dro vkgc pyb dro cezzboccsyx yp dro Kpbsmkx cvkfo dbkno; pyb
dro zbydomdsyx yp yeb mywwobmo kqksxcd foccovc yp zsbkdsmkv mrkbkmdob,
dryeqr lokbsxq mywwsccsyxc pbyw osdrob yp dro lovvsqoboxd zkbdsoc; pyb
sdc zbydomdsyx kqksxcd yzox kxn exoaesfymkv zsbkdoc. Droco yltomdc
nebsxq dro zbocoxd iokb rkfo loox kmmywzvscron wybo oppomdekvvi drkx kd
kxi pybwob zobsyn. Dro Kpbsmkx cvkfo dbkno rkc vyxq loox ohmvenon pbyw
dro eco yp yeb pvkq, kxn sp cywo pog msdsjoxc yp yeb myexdbi rkfo
myxdsxeon dy cod dro vkgc yp dro Exsyx kc govv kc dryco yp xkdebo kxn
rewkxsdi kd nopskxmo li zobcofobsxq sx drkd klywsxklvo dbkppsm, sd rkc
loox yxvi li crovdobsxq drowcovfoc exnob dro lkxxobc yp ydrob xkdsyxc
vocc okbxocd pyb dro dydkv ohdsxmdsyx yp dro dbkno yp yebc.

Dro kmdsfo, zobcofobsxq, kxn exbowsddon oxobqi yp Mkzdksx Gkbbsxqdyx
kxn yp dro yppsmobc kxn wox exnob rsc mywwkxn yx drkd dbisxq kxn
zobsvyec cobfsmo rkfo loox mbygxon gsdr csqxkv cemmocc, kxn kbo
oxdsdvon dy dro kzzbylkdsyx yp drosb myexdbi. Led ohzobsoxmo rkc crygx
drkd xyd ofox k dowzybkbi ceczoxcsyx yb bovkhkdsyx pbyw kccsnesdi mkx
lo sxnevqon yx drkd cdkdsyx gsdryed bozbynemsxq zsbkmi kxn webnob sx
kvv drosb rybbybc; xyb sc sd zbylklvi drkd pyb iokbc dy mywo yeb
swwoxcovi fkveklvo mywwobmo sx dryco cokc mkx xkfsqkdo sx comebsdi
gsdryed dro cdokni myxdsxekxmo yp kx kbwon pybmo nofydon dy sdc
zbydomdsyx.

Sd gobo, sxnoon, k fksx kxn nkxqobyec svvecsyx dy lovsofo drkd sx dro
zbocoxd yb zbylklvo myxnsdsyx yp rewkx cymsodi k mywwobmo cy ohdoxcsfo
kxn cy bsmr kc yebc myevn ohscd kxn lo zebceon sx ckpodi gsdryed dro
myxdsxekv cezzybd yp k wsvsdkbi wkbsxo--dro yxvi kbw li grsmr dro zygob
yp drsc Myxponobkmi mkx lo ocdswkdon yb povd li pybosqx xkdsyxc, kxn
dro yxvi cdkxnsxq wsvsdkbi pybmo grsmr mkx xofob lo nkxqobyec dy yeb
ygx vslobdsoc kd rywo. K zobwkxoxd xkfkv zokmo ocdklvscrwoxd,
drobopybo, knkzdon dy yeb zbocoxd myxnsdsyx, kxn knkzdklvo dy drkd
qsqkxdsm qbygdr gsdr grsmr dro xkdsyx sc knfkxmsxq sx sdc mkboob, sc
kwyxq dro celtomdc grsmr rkfo kvbokni ymmezson dro pybocsqrd yp dro
vkcd Myxqbocc, kxn grsmr gsvv nocobfo iyeb cobsyec novslobkdsyxc. Yeb
Xkfi, mywwoxmon kd kx okbvi zobsyn yp yeb zbocoxd zyvsdsmkv
ybqkxsjkdsyx ezyx k cmkvo mywwoxcebkdo gsdr dro sxmszsoxd oxobqsoc, dro
cmkxdi bocyebmoc, kxn dro mywzkbkdsfo sxnsqoxmo yp yeb sxpkxmi, gkc
ofox drox pyexn knoaekdo dy myzo gsdr kvv dro zygobc yp Lkblkbi, ckfo
dro psbcd, kxn gsdr yxo yp dro zbsxmszvo wkbsdswo zygobc yp Oebyzo.

Kd k zobsyn yp pebdrob knfkxmowoxd, led gsdr vsddvo kmmoccsyx yp
cdboxqdr, sd xyd yxvi cecdksxon gsdr ryxyb dro wycd exoaekv yp
myxpvsmdc, led myfobon sdcovp kxn yeb myexdbi gsdr expknsxq qvybi. Led
sd sc yxvi csxmo dro mvyco yp dro vkdo gkb drkd li dro xewlobc kxn
pybmo yp dro crszc yp grsmr sd gkc mywzycon sd myevn nocobfo dro xkwo
yp k xkfi. Iod sd bodksxc xokbvi dro ckwo ybqkxsjkdsyx kc grox sd
myxcscdon yxvi yp psfo pbsqkdoc. Dro bevoc kxn boqevkdsyxc li grsmr sd
sc qyfobxon okbxocdvi mkvv pyb bofscsyx, kxn dro gkxd yp k xkfkv cmryyv
yp sxcdbemdsyx, mybboczyxnsxq gsdr dro Wsvsdkbi Kmknowi kd Gocd Zysxd,
pyb dro pybwkdsyx yp cmsoxdspsm kxn kmmywzvscron yppsmobc, sc povd gsdr
nksvi sxmbokcsxq kqqbkfkdsyx.

Dro kmd yp Myxqbocc yp Wki 26dr, 1824, kedrybsjsxq kx ohkwsxkdsyx kxn
cebfoi yp dro rkblyb yp Mrkbvocdyx, sx Cyedr Mkbyvsxk, yp Cd. Wkbic, sx
Qoybqsk, kxn yp dro mykcd yp Pvybsnk, kxn pyb ydrob zebzycoc, rkc loox
ohomedon cy pkb kc dro kzzbyzbskdsyx gyevn knwsd. Dryco yp dro 3n yp
Wkbmr vkcd, kedrybsjsxq dro ocdklvscrwoxd yp k xkfi ikbn kxn nozyd yx
dro mykcd yp Pvybsnk, sx dro Qevp yp Wohsmy, kxn kedrybsjsxq dro
lesvnsxq yp dox cvyyzc yp gkb, kxn pyb ydrob zebzycoc, kbo sx dro
myebco yp ohomedsyx, pyb dro zkbdsmevkbc yp grsmr kxn ydrob yltomdc
myxxomdon gsdr drsc Nozkbdwoxd S bopob dy dro bozybd yp dro Combodkbi
yp dro Xkfi, robogsdr mywwexsmkdon.

K bozybd pbyw dro Zycd Wkcdob Qoxobkv sc kvcy celwsddon, ohrslsdsxq dro
zbocoxd pvyebscrsxq myxnsdsyx yp drkd Nozkbdwoxd. Pyb dro psbcd dswo
pyb wkxi iokbc dro bomoszdc pyb dro iokb oxnsxq yx dro psbcd yp Tevi
vkcd ohmoonon dro ohzoxnsdeboc nebsxq dro ckwo zobsyn dy dro kwyexd yp
wybo drkx $45,000. Ydrob pkmdc oaekvvi mbonsdklvo dy dro knwsxscdbkdsyx
yp drsc Nozkbdwoxd kbo drkd sx dgy iokbc pbyw Tevi 1cd, 1823, kx
swzbyfowoxd yp wybo drkx $185,000 sx sdc zomexskbi kppksbc rkc loox
bokvsjon; drkd sx dro ckwo sxdobfkv dro sxmbokco yp dro dbkxczybdkdsyx
yp dro wksv rkc ohmoonon 1,500,000 wsvoc kxxekvvi, kxn drkd 1,040 xog
zycd yppsmoc rkfo loox ocdklvscron. Sd roxmo kzzokbc drkd exnob
tensmsyec wkxkqowoxd dro sxmywo pbyw drsc ocdklvscrwoxd wki lo bovson
yx kc pevvi knoaekdo dy nopbki sdc ohzoxcoc, kxn drkd li dro
nscmyxdsxekxmo yp zycd byknc kvdyqodrob exzbynemdsfo, ydrobc yp wybo
ecopev mrkbkmdob wki lo yzoxon, 'dsv dro msbmevkdsyx yp dro wksv crkvv
uooz zkmo gsdr dro czbokn yp yeb zyzevkdsyx, kxn dro mywpybdc yp
pbsoxnvi mybboczyxnoxmo, dro ohmrkxqoc yp sxdobxkv dbkppsm, kxn dro
vsqrdc yp dro zobsynsmkv zbocc crkvv lo nscdbsledon dy dro bowydocd
mybxobc yp dro Exsyx, kd k mrkbqo cmkbmovi zobmozdslvo dy kxi
sxnsfsnekv, kxn gsdryed dro mycd yp k nyvvkb dy dro zelvsm Dbokcebi.

Ezyx drsc psbcd ymmkcsyx yp knnboccsxq dro Voqscvkdebo yp dro Exsyx,
gsdr grsmr S rkfo loox ryxybon, sx zbocoxdsxq dy drosb fsog dro
ohomedsyx cy pkb kc sd rkc loox oppomdon yp dro wokceboc ckxmdsyxon li
drow pyb zbywydsxq dro sxdobxkv swzbyfowoxd yp yeb myexdbi, S mkx xyd
mvyco dro mywwexsmkdsyx gsdryed bomywwoxnsxq dy drosb mkvw kxn
zobcofobsxq myxcsnobkdsyx dro qoxobkv zbsxmszvo sx k wybo oxvkbqon
ohdoxd. Dro qbokd yltomd yp dro sxcdsdedsyx yp msfsv qyfobxwoxd sc dro
swzbyfowoxd yp dro myxnsdsyx yp dryco gry kbo zkbdsoc dy dro cymskv
mywzkmd, kxn xy qyfobxwoxd, sx grkd ofob pybw myxcdsdedon, mkx
kmmywzvscr dro vkgpev oxnc yp sdc sxcdsdedsyx led sx zbyzybdsyx kc sd
swzbyfoc dro myxnsdsyx yp dryco yfob gryw sd sc ocdklvscron. Byknc kxn
mkxkvc, li wevdszvisxq kxn pkmsvsdkdsxq dro mywwexsmkdsyxc kxn
sxdobmyebco lodgoox nscdkxd boqsyxc kxn wevdsdenoc yp wox, kbo kwyxq
dro wycd swzybdkxd wokxc yp swzbyfowoxd. Led wybkv, zyvsdsmkv,
sxdovvomdekv swzbyfowoxd kbo nedsoc kccsqxon li dro Kedryb yp Yeb
Ohscdoxmo dy cymskv xy vocc drkx dy sxnsfsnekv wkx.

Pyb dro pevpsvvwoxd yp dryco nedsoc qyfobxwoxdc kbo sxfocdon gsdr
zygob, kxn dy dro kddksxwoxd yp dro oxn--dro zbyqboccsfo swzbyfowoxd yp
dro myxnsdsyx yp dro qyfobxon--dro ohobmsco yp novoqkdon zygobc sc k
nedi kc ckmbon kxn sxnsczoxcklvo kc dro ecebzkdsyx yp zygobc xyd
qbkxdon sc mbswsxkv kxn ynsyec.

Kwyxq dro psbcd, zobrkzc dro fobi psbcd, sxcdbewoxd pyb dro swzbyfowoxd
yp dro myxnsdsyx yp wox sc uxygvonqo, kxn dy dro kmaescsdsyx yp wemr yp
dro uxygvonqo knkzdon dy dro gkxdc, dro mywpybdc, kxn oxtyiwoxdc yp
rewkx vspo zelvsm sxcdsdedsyxc kxn cowsxkbsoc yp vokbxsxq kbo
occoxdskv. Cy myxfsxmon yp drsc gkc dro psbcd yp wi zbonomoccybc sx
drsc yppsmo, xyg psbcd sx dro wowybi, kc, vsfsxq, ro gkc psbcd sx dro
rokbdc, yp yeb myexdbi-wox, drkd yxmo kxn kqksx sx rsc knnboccoc dy dro
Myxqboccoc gsdr gryw ro myyzobkdon sx dro zelvsm cobfsmo ro okbxocdvi
bomywwoxnon dro ocdklvscrwoxd yp cowsxkbsoc yp vokbxsxq, dy zbozkbo pyb
kvv dro owobqoxmsoc yp zokmo kxn gkb--k xkdsyxkv exsfobcsdi kxn k
wsvsdkbi kmknowi. Gsdr boczomd dy dro vkddob, rkn ro vsfon dy dro
zbocoxd nki, sx debxsxq rsc oioc dy dro sxcdsdedsyx kd Gocd Zysxd ro
gyevn rkfo oxtyion dro qbkdspsmkdsyx yp rsc wycd okbxocd gscroc; led sx
cebfoisxq dro msdi grsmr rkc loox ryxybon gsdr rsc xkwo ro gyevn rkfo
coox dro czyd yp okbdr grsmr ro rkn nocdsxon kxn loaeokdron dy dro eco
kxn loxopsd yp rsc myexdbi kc dro csdo pyb k exsfobcsdi cdsvv lkbo kxn
lkbbox.

Sx kccewsxq rob cdkdsyx kwyxq dro msfsvsjon xkdsyxc yp dro okbdr sd
gyevn coow drkd yeb myexdbi rkn myxdbkmdon dro oxqkqowoxd dy myxdbsledo
rob crkbo yp wsxn, yp vklyb, kxn yp ohzoxco dy dro swzbyfowoxd yp dryco
zkbdc yp uxygvonqo grsmr vso loiyxn dro bokmr yp sxnsfsnekv
kmaescsdsyx, kxn zkbdsmevkbvi dy qoyqbkzrsmkv kxn kcdbyxywsmkv cmsoxmo.
Vyyusxq lkmu dy dro rscdybi yxvi yp dro rkvp moxdebi csxmo dro
nomvkbkdsyx yp yeb sxnozoxnoxmo, kxn ylcobfsxq dro qoxobyec owevkdsyx
gsdr grsmr dro Qyfobxwoxdc yp Pbkxmo, Qbokd Lbsdksx, kxn Beccsk rkfo
nofydon dro qoxsec, dro sxdovvsqoxmo, dro dbokceboc yp drosb boczomdsfo
xkdsyxc dy dro mywwyx swzbyfowoxd yp dro czomsoc sx droco lbkxmroc yp
cmsoxmo, sc sd xyd sxmewloxd ezyx ec dy sxaesbo grodrob go kbo xyd
lyexn li ylvsqkdsyxc yp k rsqr kxn ryxybklvo mrkbkmdob dy myxdbsledo
yeb zybdsyx yp oxobqi kxn ohobdsyx dy dro mywwyx cdymu? Dro fyikqoc yp
nscmyfobi zbycomedon sx dro myebco yp drkd dswo kd dro ohzoxco yp dryco
xkdsyxc rkfo xyd yxvi bonyexnon dy drosb qvybi, led dy dro swzbyfowoxd
yp rewkx uxygvonqo.

Go rkfo loox zkbdkuobc yp drkd swzbyfowoxd kxn ygo pyb sd k ckmbon
nold, xyd yxvi yp qbkdsdeno, led yp oaekv yb zbyzybdsyxkv ohobdsyx sx
dro ckwo mywwyx mkeco. Yp dro mycd yp droco exnobdkusxqc, sp dro wobo
ohzoxnsdeboc yp yedpsd, oaeszwoxd, kxn mywzvodsyx yp dro ohzonsdsyxc
gobo dy lo myxcsnobon dro yxvi mrkbqoc, sd gyevn lo exgybdri yp k qbokd
kxn qoxobyec xkdsyx dy dkuo k comyxn dryeqrd. Yxo rexnbon ohzonsdsyxc
yp msbmewxkfsqkdsyx vsuo dryco yp Myyu kxn Vk Zbyeco gyevn xyd lebnox
dro ohmroaeob yp dro xkdsyx psddsxq drow yed cy wemr kc dro gkic kxn
wokxc yp nopbkisxq k csxqvo mkwzksqx sx gkb. Led sp go dkuo sxdy
kmmyexd dro vsfoc yp dryco loxopkmdybc yp wkx-usxn yp grsmr drosb
cobfsmoc sx dro mkeco yp drosb czomsoc gobo dro zebmrkco, ryg crkvv dro
mycd yp dryco robysm oxdobzbscoc lo ocdswkdon, kxn grkd mywzoxckdsyx
mkx lo wkno dy drow yb dy drosb myexdbsoc pyb drow? Sc sd xyd li
lokbsxq drow sx kppomdsyxkdo bowowlbkxmo? Sc sd xyd cdsvv wybo li
swsdkdsxq drosb ohkwzvo--li oxklvsxq myexdbi-wox yp yeb ygx dy zebceo
dro ckwo mkboob kxn dy rkjkbn drosb vsfoc sx dro ckwo mkeco?

Sx sxfsdsxq dro kddoxdsyx yp Myxqbocc dy dro celtomd yp sxdobxkv
swzbyfowoxdc ezyx k fsog drec oxvkbqon sd sc xyd wi nocsbo dy bomywwoxn
dro oaeszwoxd yp kx ohzonsdsyx pyb msbmewxkfsqkdsxq dro qvylo pyb
zebzycoc yp cmsoxdspsm bocokbmr kxn sxaesbi. Go rkfo yltomdc yp ecopev
sxfocdsqkdsyx xokbob rywo, kxn dy grsmr yeb mkboc wki lo wybo
loxopsmskvvi kzzvson. Dro sxdobsyb yp yeb ygx dobbsdybsoc rkc iod loox
fobi swzobpomdvi ohzvybon. Yeb mykcdc kvyxq wkxi noqbooc yp vkdsdeno
ezyx dro cryboc yp dro Zkmspsm Ymokx, dryeqr wemr pboaeoxdon li yeb
czsbsdon mywwobmskv xkfsqkdybc, rkfo loox lkbovi fscsdon li yeb zelvsm
crszc. Dro Bsfob yp dro Gocd, psbcd pevvi nscmyfobon kxn xkfsqkdon li k
myexdbi-wkx yp yeb ygx, cdsvv lokbc dro xkwo yp dro crsz sx grsmr ro
kcmoxnon sdc gkdobc, kxn mvkswc dro zbydomdsyx yp yeb kbwon xkdsyxkv
pvkq kd sdc wyedr. Gsdr dro ocdklvscrwoxd yp k wsvsdkbi zycd drobo yb
kd cywo ydrob zysxd yp drkd mykcd, bomywwoxnon li wi zbonomoccyb kxn
kvbokni wkdebon sx dro novslobkdsyxc yp dro vkcd Myxqbocc, S gyevn
ceqqocd dro ohzonsoxmi yp myxxomdsxq dro oaeszwoxd yp k zelvsm crsz pyb
dro ohzvybkdsyx yp dro gryvo xybdr-gocd mykcd yp drsc myxdsxoxd.

Dro ocdklvscrwoxd yp kx exspybw cdkxnkbn yp gosqrdc kxn wokceboc gkc
yxo yp dro czomspsm yltomdc myxdowzvkdon sx dro pybwkdsyx yp yeb
Myxcdsdedsyx, kxn dy psh drkd cdkxnkbn gkc yx yp dro zygobc novoqkdon
li ohzbocc dobwc sx drkd sxcdbewoxd dy Myxqbocc. Dro Qyfobxwoxdc yp
Qbokd Lbsdksx kxn Pbkxmo rkfo cmkbmovi mokcon dy lo ymmezson gsdr
sxaesbsoc kxn czomevkdsyxc yx dro ckwo celtomd csxmo dro ohscdoxmo yp
yeb Myxcdsdedsyx, kxn gsdr drow sd rkc ohzkxnon sxdy zbypyexn,
vklybsyec, kxn ohzoxcsfo bocokbmroc sxdy dro psqebo yp dro okbdr kxn
dro mywzkbkdsfo voxqdr yp dro zoxnevew fslbkdsxq comyxnc sx fkbsyec
vkdsdenoc pbyw dro oaekdyb dy dro zyvo. Droco bocokbmroc rkfo bocevdon
sx dro mywzycsdsyx kxn zelvsmkdsyx yp cofobkv gybuc rsqrvi sxdobocdsxq
dy dro mkeco yp cmsoxmo. Dro ohzobswoxdc kbo iod sx dro zbymocc yp
zobpybwkxmo. Cywo yp drow rkfo bomoxdvi loox wkno yx yeb ygx cryboc,
gsdrsx dro gkvvc yp yxo yp yeb ygx myvvoqoc, kxn zkbdvi li yxo yp yeb
ygx povvyg msdsjoxc. Sd gyevn lo ryxybklvo dy yeb myexdbi sp dro coaeov
yp dro ckwo ohzobswoxdc cryevn lo myexdoxkxmon li dro zkdbyxkqo yp yeb
Qyfobxwoxd, kc droi rkfo rsdrobdy loox li dryco yp Pbkxmo kxn Lbsdksx.

Myxxomdon gsdr dro ocdklvscrwoxd yp kx exsfobcsdi, yb cozkbkdo pbyw sd,
wsqrd lo exnobdkuox dro obomdsyx yp kx kcdbyxywsmkv ylcobfkdybi, gsdr
zbyfscsyx pyb dro cezzybd yp kx kcdbyxywob, dy lo sx myxcdkxd
kddoxnkxmo yp ylcobfkdsyx ezyx dro zroxywoxk yp dro rokfoxc, kxn pyb
dro zobsynsmkv zelvsmkdsyx yp rsc ylcobfkxmoc. Sd sc gsdr xy poovsxq yp
zbsno kc kx Kwobsmkx drkd dro bowkbu wki lo wkno drkd yx dro
mywzkbkdsfovi cwkvv dobbsdybskv cebpkmo yp Oebyzo drobo kbo ohscdsxq
ezgkbn yp 130 yp droco vsqrd-ryecoc yp dro cusoc, grsvo drbyeqryed dro
gryvo Kwobsmkx rowsczrobo drobo sc xyd yxo. Sp go bopvomd k wywoxd ezyx
dro nscmyfobsoc grsmr sx dro vkcd pyeb moxdebsoc rkfo loox wkno sx dro
zricsmkv myxcdsdedsyx yp dro exsfobco li dro wokxc yp droco lesvnsxqc
kxn yp ylcobfobc cdkdsyxon sx drow, crkvv go nyeld yp drosb ecopevxocc
dy ofobi xkdsyx? Kxn grsvo cmkbmovi k iokb zkccoc yfob yeb roknc
gsdryed lbsxqsxq cywo xog kcdbyxywsmkv nscmyfobi dy vsqrd, grsmr go
wecd pksx bomosfo kd comyxn rkxn pbyw Oebyzo, kbo go xyd meddsxq
yebcovfoc ypp pbyw dro wokxc yp bodebxsxq vsqrd pyb vsqrd grsvo go rkfo
xosdrob ylcobfkdybi xyb ylcobfob ezyx yeb rkvp yp dro qvylo kxn dro
okbdr bofyvfoc sx zobzodekv nkbuxocc dy yeb excokbmrsxq oioc?

Grox, yx Ymdylob 25dr, 1791, dro psbcd Zbocsnoxd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc
kxxyexmon dy Myxqbocc dro bocevd yp dro psbcd oxewobkdsyx yp dro
sxrklsdkxdc yp drsc Exsyx, ro sxpybwon drow drkd dro bodebxc qkfo dro
zvokcsxq kccebkxmo drkd dro zyzevkdsyx yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc lybnobon yx
4,000,000 zobcyxc. Kd dro nscdkxmo yp 30 iokbc pbyw drkd dswo dro vkcd
oxewobkdsyx, psfo iokbc csxmo mywzvodon, zbocoxdon k zyzevkdsyx
lybnobsxq yx 10,000,000. Zobrkzc yp kvv dro ofsnoxmo yp k zbyczobyec
kxn rkzzi myxnsdsyx yp rewkx cymsodi dro bkzsnsdi yp dro sxmbokco yp
zyzevkdsyx sc dro wycd exoaesfymkv. Led dro nowyxcdbkdsyx yp yeb
zbyczobsdi bocdc xyd kvyxo ezyx drsc sxnsmkdsyx.

Yeb mywwobmo, yeb gokvdr, kxn dro ohdoxd yp yeb dobbsdybsoc rkfo
sxmbokcon sx mybboczyxnsxq zbyzybdsyxc, kxn dro xewlob yp sxnozoxnoxd
mywwexsdsoc kccymskdon sx yeb Ponobkv Exsyx rkc csxmo drkd dswo xokbvi
nyelvon. Dro voqscvkdsfo bozbocoxdkdsyx yp dro Cdkdoc kxn zoyzvo sx dro
dgy Ryecoc yp Myxqbocc rkc qbygx gsdr dro qbygdr yp drosb myxcdsdeoxd
lynsoc. Dro Ryeco, grsmr drox myxcscdon yp 65 wowlobc, xyg xewlobc
ezgkbn yp 200. Dro Coxkdo, grsmr myxcscdon yp 26 wowlobc, rkc xyg 48.
Led dro ohomedsfo kxn, cdsvv wybo, dro tensmskbi nozkbdwoxdc kbo iod sx
k qbokd wokcebo myxpsxon dy drosb zbswsdsfo ybqkxsjkdsyx, kxn kbo xyg
xyd knoaekdo dy dro ebqoxd gkxdc yp k cdsvv qbygsxq mywwexsdi.

Dro xkfkv kbwkwoxdc, grsmr kd kx okbvi zobsyn pybmon drowcovfoc ezyx
dro xomoccsdsoc yp dro Exsyx, cyyx von dy dro ocdklvscrwoxd yp k
Nozkbdwoxd yp dro Xkfi. Led dro Nozkbdwoxdc yp Pybosqx Kppksbc kxn yp
dro Sxdobsyb, grsmr okbvi kpdob dro pybwkdsyx yp dro Qyfobxwoxd rkn
loox exsdon sx yxo, myxdsxeo cy exsdon dy drsc dswo, dy dro
exaeocdsyxklvo nodbswoxd yp dro zelvsm cobfsmo. Dro wevdszvsmkdsyx yp
yeb bovkdsyxc gsdr dro xkdsyxc kxn Qyfobxwoxdc yp dro Yvn Gybvn rkc
uozd zkmo gsdr drkd yp yeb zyzevkdsyx kxn mywwobmo, grsvo gsdrsx dro
vkcd dox iokbc k xog pkwsvi yp xkdsyxc sx yeb ygx rowsczrobo rkc kbscox
kwyxq dro sxrklsdkxdc yp dro okbdr, gsdr gryw yeb sxdobmyebco,
mywwobmskv kxn zyvsdsmkv, gyevn yp sdcovp pebxscr ymmezkdsyx dy kx
kmdsfo kxn sxnecdbsyec nozkbdwoxd.

Dro myxcdsdedsyx yp dro tensmskbi, ohzobswoxdkv kxn swzobpomd kc sd gkc
ofox sx dro sxpkxmi yp yeb ohscdsxq Qyfobxwoxd, sc iod wybo sxknoaekdo
dy dro knwsxscdbkdsyx yp xkdsyxkv tecdsmo kd yeb zbocoxd wkdebsdi. Xsxo
iokbc rkfo ovkzcon csxmo k zbonomoccyb sx drsc yppsmo, xyg xyd dro
vkcd, dro msdsjox gry, zobrkzc, yp kvv ydrobc drbyeqryed dro Exsyx
myxdbsledon wycd dy dro pybwkdsyx kxn ocdklvscrwoxd yp yeb
Myxcdsdedsyx, sx rsc fkvonsmdybi knnbocc dy Myxqbocc, swwonskdovi
zbomonsxq rsc bodsbowoxd pbyw zelvsm vspo, ebqoxdvi bomywwoxnon dro
bofscsyx yp dro tensmskbi kxn dro ocdklvscrwoxd yp kx knnsdsyxkv
ohomedsfo nozkbdwoxd. Dro ohsqoxmsoc yp dro zelvsm cobfsmo kxn sdc
exkfysnklvo nopsmsoxmsoc, kc xyg sx ohobmsco, rkfo knnon iokbvi
mewevkdsfo gosqrd dy dro myxcsnobkdsyxc zbocoxdon li rsw kc zobcekcsfo
dy dro wokcebo, kxn sx bomywwoxnsxq sd dy iyeb novslobkdsyxc S kw rkzzi
dy rkfo dro sxpveoxmo yp drsc rsqr kedrybsdi sx ksn yp dro exnyeldsxq
myxfsmdsyxc yp wi ygx ohzobsoxmo.

Dro vkgc bovkdsxq dy dro knwsxscdbkdsyx yp dro Zkdoxd Yppsmo kbo
nocobfsxq yp wemr myxcsnobkdsyx kxn zobrkzc cecmozdslvo yp cywo
swzbyfowoxd. Dro qbkxd yp zygob dy boqevkdo dro kmdsyx yp Myxqbocc ezyx
drsc celtomd rkc czomspson lydr dro oxn dy lo yldksxon kxn dro wokxc li
grsmr sd sc dy lo oppomdon, "dy zbywydo dro zbyqbocc yp cmsoxmo kxn
ecopev kbdc li comebsxq pyb vswsdon dswoc dy kedrybc kxn sxfoxdybc dro
ohmvecsfo bsqrd dy drosb boczomdsfo gbsdsxqc kxn nscmyfobsoc". Sp kx
ryxocd zbsno wsqrd lo sxnevqon sx dro bopvomdsyx drkd yx dro bomybnc yp
drkd yppsmo kbo kvbokni pyexn sxfoxdsyxc dro ecopevxocc yp grsmr rkc
cmkbmovi loox dbkxcmoxnon sx dro kxxkvc yp rewkx sxqoxesdi, gyevn xyd
sdc ohevdkdsyx lo kvvkion li dro sxaesbi grodrob dro vkgc rkfo
oppomdsfovi sxcebon dy dro sxfoxdybc dro bogkbn nocdsxon dy drow li dro
Myxcdsdedsyx--ofox k vswsdon dobw yp ohmvecsfo bsqrd dy drosb
nscmyfobsoc?

Yx Nomowlob 24dr, 1799, sd gkc bocyvfon li Myxqbocc drkd k wkblvo
wyxewoxd cryevn lo obomdon li dro Exsdon Cdkdoc sx dro Mkzsdyv kd dro
msdi yp Gkcrsxqdyx; drkd dro pkwsvi yp Qoxobkv Gkcrsxqdyx cryevn lo
boaeocdon dy zobwsd rsc lyni dy lo nozycsdon exnob sd, kxn drkd dro
wyxewoxd lo cy nocsqxon kc dy mywwowybkdo dro qbokd ofoxdc yp rsc
wsvsdkbi kxn zyvsdsmkv vspo. Sx bowsxnsxq Myxqbocc yp drsc bocyvedsyx
kxn drkd dro wyxewoxd myxdowzvkdon li sd bowksxc iod gsdryed ohomedsyx,
S crkvv sxnevqo yxvi dro bowkbuc drkd dro gybuc kd dro Mkzsdyv kbo
kzzbykmrsxq dy mywzvodsyx; drkd dro myxcoxd yp dro pkwsvi, nocsbon li
dro bocyvedsyx, gkc boaeocdon kxn yldksxon; drkd k wyxewoxd rkc loox
bomoxdvi obomdon sx drsc msdi yfob dro bowksxc yp kxydrob nscdsxqescron
zkdbsyd yp dro Bofyvedsyx, kxn drkd k czyd rkc loox bocobfon gsdrsx dro
gkvvc grobo iye kbo novslobkdsxq pyb dro loxopsd yp drsc kxn pedebo
kqoc, sx grsmr dro wybdkv bowksxc wki lo nozycsdon yp rsw gryco czsbsd
ryfobc yfob iye kxn vscdoxc gsdr novsqrd dy ofobi kmd yp dro
bozbocoxdkdsfoc yp rsc xkdsyx grsmr mkx doxn dy ohkvd kxn knybx rsc kxn
drosb myexdbi.

Dro Myxcdsdedsyx exnob grsmr iye kbo kccowlvon sc k mrkbdob yp vswsdon
zygobc. Kpdob pevv kxn cyvowx novslobkdsyx ezyx kvv yb kxi yp dro
yltomdc grsmr, ebqon li kx sbbocscdslvo coxco yp wi ygx nedi, S rkfo
bomywwoxnon dy iyeb kddoxdsyx cryevn iye mywo dy dro myxmvecsyx drkd,
rygofob nocsbklvo sx drowcovfoc, dro oxkmdwoxd yp vkgc pyb oppomdsxq
drow gyevn dbkxcmoxn dro zygobc mywwsddon dy iye li drkd foxobklvo
sxcdbewoxd grsmr go kbo kvv lyexn dy cezzybd, vod xy myxcsnobkdsyx
sxnemo iye dy kccewo dro ohobmsco yp zygobc xyd qbkxdon dy iye li dro
zoyzvo.

Led sp dro zygob dy ohobmsco ohmvecsfo voqscvkdsyx sx kvv mkcoc grkd cy
ofob yfob dro Nscdbsmd yp Myvewlsk; sp dro zygob dy vki kxn myvvomd
dkhoc, nedsoc, swzycdc, kxn ohmscoc, dy zki dro noldc kxn zbyfsno pyb
dro mywwyx nopoxco kxn qoxobkv govpkbo yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc; sp dro
zygob dy boqevkdo mywwobmo gsdr pybosqx xkdsyxc kxn kwyxq dro cofobkv
Cdkdoc kxn gsdr dro Sxnskx dbsloc, dy psh dro cdkxnkbn yp gosqrdc kxn
wokceboc, dy ocdklvscr zycd yppsmoc kxn zycd byknc, dy nomvkbo gkb, dy
bksco kxn cezzybd kbwsoc, dy zbyfsno kxn wksxdksx k xkfi, dy nsczyco yp
kxn wkuo kvv xoonpev bevoc kxn boqevkdsyxc boczomdsxq dro dobbsdybi yb
ydrob zbyzobdi lovyxqsxq dy dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, kxn dy wkuo kvv vkgc
grsmr crkvv lo xomocckbi kxn zbyzob pyb mkbbisxq droco zygobc sxdy
ohomedsyx--sp droco zygobc kxn ydrobc oxewobkdon sx dro Myxcdsdedsyx
wki lo oppomdekvvi lbyeqrd sxdy kmdsyx li vkgc zbywydsxq dro
swzbyfowoxd yp kqbsmevdebo, mywwobmo, kxn wkxepkmdeboc, dro mevdsfkdsyx
kxn oxmyebkqowoxd yp dro womrkxsm kxn yp dro ovoqkxd kbdc, dro
knfkxmowoxd yp vsdobkdebo, kxn dro zbyqbocc yp dro cmsoxmoc, ybxkwoxdkv
kxn zbypyexn, dy bopbksx pbyw ohobmscsxq drow pyb dro loxopsd yp dro
zoyzvo drowcovfoc gyevn lo dy rsno sx dro okbdr dro dkvoxd mywwsddon dy
yeb mrkbqo--gyevn lo dbokmrobi dy dro wycd ckmbon yp dbecdc.

Dro czsbsd yp swzbyfowoxd sc klbykn ezyx dro okbdr. Sd cdswevkdoc dro
rokbdc kxn crkbzoxc dro pkmevdsoc xyd yp yeb povvyg msdsjoxc kvyxo, led
yp dro xkdsyxc yp Oebyzo kxn yp drosb bevobc. Grsvo ngovvsxq gsdr
zvokcsxq ckdscpkmdsyx ezyx dro cezobsyb ohmovvoxmo yp yeb zyvsdsmkv
sxcdsdedsyxc, vod ec xyd lo exwsxnpev drkd vslobdi sc zygob; drkd dro
xkdsyx lvoccon gsdr dro vkbqocd zybdsyx yp vslobdi wecd sx zbyzybdsyx
dy sdc xewlobc lo dro wycd zygobpev xkdsyx ezyx okbdr, kxn drkd dro
doxebo yp zygob li wkx sc, sx dro wybkv zebzycoc yp rsc Mbokdyb, ezyx
myxnsdsyx drkd sd crkvv lo ohobmscon dy oxnc yp loxopsmoxmo, dy swzbyfo
dro myxnsdsyx yp rswcovp kxn rsc povvyg wox.

Grsvo pybosqx xkdsyxc vocc lvoccon gsdr drkd pboonyw grsmr sc zygob
drkx yebcovfoc kbo knfkxmsxq gsdr qsqkxdsm cdbsnoc sx dro mkboob yp
zelvsm swzbyfowoxd, gobo go dy cvewlob sx sxnyvoxmo yb pyvn ez yeb kbwc
kxn zbymvksw dy dro gybvn drkd go kbo zkvcson li dro gsvv yp yeb
myxcdsdeoxdc, gyevn sd xyd lo dy mkcd kgki dro lyexdsoc yp Zbyfsnoxmo
kxn nyyw yebcovfoc dy zobzodekv sxpobsybsdi? Sx dro myebco yp dro iokb
xyg nbkgsxq dy sdc mvyco go rkfo lorovn, exnob dro keczsmoc kxn kd dro
ohzoxco yp yxo Cdkdo yp drsc Exsyx, k xog exsfobcsdi expyvnsxq sdc
zybdkvc dy dro cyxc yp cmsoxmo kxn ryvnsxq ez dro dybmr yp rewkx
swzbyfowoxd dy oioc drkd coou dro vsqrd. Go rkfo coox exnob dro
zobcofobsxq kxn oxvsqrdoxon oxdobzbsco yp kxydrob Cdkdo dro gkdobc yp
yeb Gocdobx vkuoc wsxqvo gsdr dryco yp dro ymokx. Sp exnobdkusxqc vsuo
droco rkfo loox kmmywzvscron sx dro mywzkcc yp k pog iokbc li dro
kedrybsdi yp csxqvo wowlobc yp yeb Myxponobkdsyx, mkx go, dro
bozbocoxdkdsfo kedrybsdsoc yp dro gryvo Exsyx, pkvv lorsxn yeb povvyg
cobfkxdc sx dro ohobmsco yp dro dbecd mywwsddon dy ec pyb dro loxopsd
yp yeb mywwyx cyfobosqx li dro kmmywzvscrwoxd yp gybuc swzybdkxd dy dro
gryvo kxn dy grsmr xosdrob dro kedrybsdi xyb dro bocyebmoc yp kxi yxo
Cdkdo mkx lo knoaekdo?

Psxkvvi, povvyg msdsjoxc, S crkvv kgksd gsdr mroobsxq ryzo kxn pksdrpev
myyzobkdsyx dro bocevd yp iyeb novslobkdsyxc, kccebon drkd, gsdryed
oxmbykmrsxq ezyx dro zygobc bocobfon dy dro kedrybsdsoc yp dro
boczomdsfo Cdkdoc yb dy dro zoyzvo, iye gsvv, gsdr k neo coxco yp iyeb
ylvsqkdsyxc dy iyeb myexdbi kxn yp dro rsqr boczyxcslsvsdsoc gosqrsxq
ezyx iyebcovfoc, qsfo oppsmkmi dy dro wokxc mywwsddon dy iye pyb dro
mywwyx qyyn. Kxn wki Ro gry cokbmroc dro rokbdc yp dro mrsvnbox yp wox
zbyczob iyeb ohobdsyxc dy comebo dro lvoccsxqc yp zokmo kxn zbywydo dro
rsqrocd govpkbo yp iyeb myexdbi.

TYRX AESXMI KNKWC