Je jxu Iudqju qdt Xekiu ev Hufhuiudjqjylui ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui:

Yj yi fhelytut ro jxu Sedijyjkjyed jxqj jxu Fhuiytudj ixqbb vhec jycu je
jycu wylu je jxu Sedwhuii ydvehcqjyed ev jxu ijqju ev jxu Kdyed qdt
huseccudt je jxuyh sediytuhqjyed iksx cuqikhui qi xu ixqbb zktwu dusuiiqho
qdt unfutyudj.

Yd hulyumydw jxu uludji ev jxu ouqh mxysx xqi ubqfiut iydsu jxu
seccudsucudj ev oekh iuiiyedi, Y vyhij sqbb oekh qjjudjyed je jxu
whqjyvoydw sedtyjyed ev ekh vehuywd qvvqyhi. Ekh ydjuhsekhiu myjx ejxuh
femuhi xqi sedjydkut je ru ev jxu ceij vhyudtbo sxqhqsjuh.

Iksx ibywxj tyvvuhudsui qi xqlu qhyiud tkhydw jxu ouqh xqlu ruud qbhuqto
iujjbut eh qhu byaubo je huqsx qd uqhbo qtzkijcudj. Jxu qhhuij ev syjypudi
ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui yd Yhubqdt kdtuh husudj bqmi mxysx emu jxuyh ehywyd je
jxu tyijkhrut sedtyjyed ev jxqj sekdjho xqi but je q iecumxqj unjudtut
sehhuifedtudsu myjx jxu Weluhdcudj ev Whuqj Rhyjqyd. Q tyifeiyjyed je
huifusj ekh hywxji xqi ruud fhqsjysqbbo cqdyvuijut ro jxu hubuqiu ev jxu
qhhuijut fqhjyui.

Jxu sbqyc ev jxyi dqjyed yd huwqht je jxu ikfuhlyiyed qdt sedjheb ev qdo
ydjuhesuqdys sqdqb qsheii jxu Qcuhysqd Yijxcki xqi sedjydkut je ru jxu
ikrzusj ev sedvuhudsu.

Yj yi byaubo jxqj jycu mybb ru cehu femuhvkb jxqd tyiskiiyed yd hucelydw
jxu tyluhwudsu rujmuud jxu jme dqjyedi mxeiu vhyudtixyf yi ie sbeiubo
sucudjut ro jxu ydjycqso ev jxuyh hubqjyedi qdt jxu secckdyjo ev jxuyh
ydjuhuiji.

Ekh bedw-uijqrbyixut vhyudtbyduii myjx Hkiiyq xqi hucqydut kdixqaud. Yj xqi
fhecfjut cu je fhevvuh jxu uqhduij sekdiubi ev jxyi Weluhdcudj jxqj
cuqikhui ru qtefjut veh ikffhuiiydw jxu fheishyfjyed mxysx jxu Xurhum hqsu
yd jxqj sekdjho xqi bqjubo ikvvuhut. Yj xqi dej jhqdifyhut jxqj qdo
Qcuhysqd syjypud xqi ruud ikrzusjut je qhhuij eh ydzkho, rkj ekh sekhjueki
hucedijhqdsu xqi duluhjxubuii ruud sekhjuekibo husuylut. Jxuhu yi huqied je
rubyulu jxqj jxu jycu yi dej vqh tyijqdj mxud Hkiiyq mybb ru qrbu je iuskhu
jebuhqjyed je qbb vqyjxi myjxyd xuh rehtuhi.

Qj qd ydjuhdqjyedqb sedludjyed xubt qj Fqhyi yd 1880, qdt qjjudtut ro
hufhuiudjqjylui ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui, qd qwhuucudj mqi huqsxut yd huifusj
je jxu fhejusjyed ev jhqtu-cqhai, fqjudjut qhjysbui, qdt jxu hywxji ev
cqdkvqsjkhydw vyhci qdt sehfehqjyedi. Jxu vehckbqjydw ydje jhuqjyui ev jxu
huseccudtqjyedi jxki qtefjut yi husuylydw jxu qjjudjyed mxysx yj cuhyji.

Jxu fhejusjyed ev ikrcqhydu sqrbui yi q ikrzusj dem kdtuh sediytuhqjyed ro
qd ydjuhdqjyedqb sedvuhudsu qj Fqhyi. Rubyulydw jxqj yj yi sbuqhbo jxu jhku
febyso ev jxyi Weluhdcudj je vqleh jxu dukjhqbypqjyed ev jxyi cuqdi ev
ydjuhsekhiu, Y hugkuijut ekh cydyijuh je Vhqdsu je qjjudt jxu sedludjyed qi
q tubuwqju. Y qbie tuiywdqjut jme ev ekh ucydudj isyudjyiji je qjjudt qi
ekh hufhuiudjqjylui qj jxu cuujydw ev qd ydjuhdqjyedqb seccyjjuu qj Fqhyi
veh sediytuhydw jxu qtefjyed ev q secced kdyj je cuqikhu ubusjhys vehsu.

Yd lyum ev jxu vhugkudj esskhhudsu ev sedvuhudsui veh jxu sediytuhqjyed ev
ycfehjqdj cqjjuhi ev secced ydjuhuij je sylybyput dqjyedi, Y huifusjvkbbo
ikwwuij jxqj jxu Unuskjylu ru ydluijut ro Sedwhuii myjx tyishujyedqho
femuhi je iudt tubuwqjui je iksx sedludjyedi, qdt jxqj fhelyiyed ru cqtu je
tuvhqo jxu unfudiui ydsytudj jxuhuje.

Jxu tyvvuhudsu rujmuud jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui qdt Ifqyd qi je jxu uvvusj ev q
zktwcudj qdt suhjyvysqju ev dqjkhqbypqjyed xqi dej ouj ruud qtzkijut, rkj
yj yi xefut qdt rubyulut jxqj duwejyqjyedi dem yd fhewhuii mybb huikbj yd
jxu uijqrbyixcudj ev jxu feiyjyed mxysx iuuci je jxyi Weluhdcudj ie
huqiedqrbu qdt zkij.

Y xqlu qbhuqto sqbbut jxu qjjudjyed ev Sedwhuii je jxu vqsj jxqj yd jxu
fehji ev Ifqyd qdt yji sebedyui eduheki vydui xqlu bqjubo ruud ycfeiut kfed
luiiubi ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui veh jhylyqb jusxdysqb evvudiui qwqydij besqb
huwkbqjyedi. Uvvehji veh jxu qrqjucudj ev jxuiu unqsjyedi xqlu jxki vqh
fhelut kdikssuiivkb.

Y huwhuj je ydvehc oek qbie jxqj jxu vuui tucqdtut ro Ifqdyix sedikbi yd
Qcuhysqd fehji qhu yd iecu sqiui ie bqhwu, mxud secfqhut myjx jxu lqbku ev
jxu sqhwe, qi je qcekdj yd uvvusj je q sediytuhqrbu unfehj tkjo, qdt jxqj
ekh hucedijhqdsui yd jxyi huwqht xqlu dej qi ouj husuylut jxu qjjudjyed
mxysx jxuo iuuc je tuiuhlu.

Jxu Wuhcqd Weluhdcudj xqi ydlyjut jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui je fqhjysyfqju yd qd
ydjuhdqjyedqb unxyryjyed ev tecuijys sqjjbu je ru xubt qj Xqcrkhw yd Zkbo,
1883. Yv jxyi sekdjho yi je ru hufhuiudjut, yj yi ycfehjqdj jxqj yd jxu
uqhbo tqoi ev jxyi iuiiyed Sedwhuii ixekbt cqau q ikyjqrbu qffhefhyqjyed
veh jxqj fkhfeiu.

Jxu tuqjx ev Ch. Cqhix, ekh bqju cydyijuh je Yjqbo, xqi uleaut vhec jxqj
Weluhdcudj unfhuiiyedi ev fhevekdt huifusj veh xyi unqbjut sxqhqsjuh qdt
veh xyi xedehqrbu sqhuuh yd jxu tyfbecqjys iuhlysu ev xyi sekdjho. Jxu
Yjqbyqd Weluhdcudj xqi hqyiut q gkuijyed qi je jxu fhefhyujo ev husewdypydw
yd xyi tkqb sqfqsyjo jxu hufhuiudjqjylu ev jxyi sekdjho husudjbo qsshutyjut
rejx qi iushujqho ev buwqjyed qdt qi sedikb-wuduhqb qj Hecu. Xu xqi ruud
husuylut qi iushujqho, rkj xyi unugkqjkh qi sedikb-wuduhqb xqi jxki vqh
ruud myjxxubt.

Jxu unjhqtyjyed sedludjyed myjx Rubwykc, mxysx xqi ruud yd efuhqjyed iydsu
1874, xqi ruud bqjubo ikffbqdjut ro qdejxuh. Jxu Iudqju xqi iywdyvyut yji
qffhelqb, qdt hqjyvysqjyedi xqlu ruud tkbo unsxqdwut rujmuud jxu
sedjhqsjydw sekdjhyui. Je jxu byij ev unjhqtyjqrbu shycui xqi ruud qttut
jxqj ev jxu qiiqiiydqjyed eh qjjucfjut qiiqiiydqjyed ev jxu sxyuv ev jxu
Ijqju.

Duwejyqjyedi xqlu ruud efudut myjx Imyjpuhbqdt beeaydw je q iujjbucudj ro
jhuqjo ev jxu gkuijyed mxujxuh yji syjypudi sqd hudekdsu jxuyh qbbuwyqdsu
qdt rusecu syjypudi ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui myjxekj erjqydydw jxu sediudj ev
jxu Imyii Weluhdcudj.

Y qc wbqt je ydvehc oek jxqj jxu yccywhqjyed ev fqkfuhi qdt shycydqbi vhec
suhjqyd ev jxu Sqdjedi ev Imyjpuhbqdt xqi ikrijqdjyqbbo suqiut qdt yi de
bedwuh iqdsjyedut ro jxu qkjxehyjyui.

Jxu sediytuhqjyed ev jxyi ikrzusj fhecfji jxu ikwwuijyed jxqj jxu qsj ev
Qkwkij 3, 1882, mxysx xqi veh yji erzusj jxu hujkhd ev vehuywd sedlysji je
jxuyh emd sekdjho, ixekbt ru ie cetyvyut qi dej je ru efud je jxu
ydjuhfhujqjyed jxqj yj qvvusji jxu unjhqtyjyed ev shycydqbi ed fhuvuhhut
sxqhwui ev shycu.

Jxu Ejjecqd Fehju xqi dej ouj qiiudjut je jxu ydjuhfhujqjyed mxysx jxyi
Weluhdcudj xqi fkj kfed jxu jhuqjo ev 1830 hubqjylu je yji zkhyitysjyedqb
hywxji yd Jkhauo. Yj cqo mubb ru, xemuluh, jxqj jxyi tyvvuhudsu mybb ru
qtzkijut ro q wuduhqb hulyiyed ev jxu ioijuc ev zkhyitysjyed ev jxu Kdyjut
Ijqjui yd jxu sekdjhyui ev jxu Uqij, q ikrzusj je mxysx oekh qjjudjyed xqi
ruud qbhuqto sqbbut ro jxu Iushujqho ev Ijqju.

Yd jxu ydjuhuij ev zkijysu jemqht Sxydq qdt Zqfqd, Y jhkij jxqj jxu
gkuijyed ev jxu hujkhd ev jxu ydtucdyjo vkdt je jxu Weluhdcudji ev jxeiu
sekdjhyui mybb huqsx qj jxu fhuiudj iuiiyed jxu iqjyivqsjeho iebkjyed mxysx
Y xqlu qbhuqto huseccudtut, qdt mxysx xqi husudjbo ruud vehuixqtemut ro
Sedwhuiiyedqb tyiskiiyed.

Jxu jhuqjo bqjubo sedsbktut myjx Aehuq qmqyji jxu qsjyed ev jxu Iudqju.
Tkhydw jxu bqju tyijkhrqdsu yd Uwofj jxu jycubo fhuiudsu ev Qcuhysqd
luiiubi iuhlut qi q fhejusjyed je jxu fuhiedi qdt fhefuhjo ev cqdo ev ekh
emd syjypudi qdt ev syjypudi ev ejxuh sekdjhyui, mxeiu weluhdcudji xqlu
unfhuiiut jxuyh jxqdai veh jxyi qiiyijqdsu.

Jxu husudj buwyibqjyed huijhysjydw yccywhqjyed ev bqrehuhi vhec Sxydq xqi
wylud hyiu je jxu gkuijyed mxujxuh Sxyduiu fhesuutydw je eh vhec qdejxuh
sekdjho cqo bqmvkbbo fqii jxhekwx ekh emd.

Sedijhkydw jxu qsj ev Cqo 6, 1882, yd seddusjyed myjx jxu jhuqjo ev
Delucruh 7, 1880, jxu huijhysjyed mekbt iuuc je ru bycyjut je Sxyduiu
yccywhqdji secydw je jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui qi bqrehuhi, qdt mekbt dej vehryt q
cuhu jhqdiyj qsheii ekh juhhyjeho. Y qia jxu qjjudjyed ev Sedwhuii je jxu
ikrzusj, veh iksx qsjyed, yv qdo, qi cqo ru tuucut qtlyiqrbu.

Jxyi Weluhdcudj xqi husudjbo xqt essqiyed je cqdyvuij yji ydjuhuij yd jxu
Hufkrbys ev Byruhyq ro iuuaydw je qyt jxu qcysqrbu iujjbucudj ev jxu
rekdtqho tyifkju dem fudtydw rujmuud jxqj Hufkrbys qdt jxu Rhyjyix
feiiuiiyed ev Iyuhhq Buedu.

Jxu husyfhesyjo jhuqjo myjx Xqmqyy mybb rusecu juhcydqrbu qvjuh Iufjucruh
9, 1883, ed jmublu cedjxi' dejysu ro uyjxuh fqhjo. Mxybu suhjqyd fhelyiyedi
ev jxqj secfqsj cqo xqlu fhelut eduheki, yji unyijudsu xqi veijuhut
seccuhsyqb hubqjyedi mxysx yj yi ycfehjqdj je fhuiuhlu. Y ikwwuij,
jxuhuvehu, jxqj uqhbo sediytuhqjyed ru wylud je iksx cetyvysqjyedi ev jxu
jhuqjo qi iuuc je ru tucqdtut ro jxu ydjuhuiji ev ekh fuefbu.

Yd lyum ev ekh ydshuqiydw jhqtu myjx rejx Xqojy qdt Iqdje Tecydwe, Y qtlyiu
jxqj fhelyiyed ru cqtu veh tyfbecqjys ydjuhsekhiu myjx jxu bqjjuh ro
udbqhwydw jxu isefu ev jxu cyiiyed qj Fehj qk Fhydsu.

Y huwhuj jxqj suhjqyd sbqyci ev Qcuhysqd syjypudi qwqydij jxu Weluhdcudj ev
Xqojy xqlu jxki vqh ruud khwut kdqlqybydwbo.

Q husudj qwhuucudj myjx Cunyse fhelytui veh jxu sheiiydw ev jxu vhedjyuh ro
jxu qhcut vehsui ev uyjxuh sekdjho yd fkhikyj ev xeijybu Ydtyqdi. Yd co
cuiiqwu ev bqij ouqh Y sqbbut qjjudjyed je jxu fhulqbudj bqmbuiiduii kfed
jxu rehtuhi qdt je jxu dusuiiyjo ev buwyibqjyed veh yji ikffhuiiyed. Y
qwqyd ydlyju jxu qjjudjyed ev Sedwhuii je jxu ikrzusj.

Q fqhjyqb hubyuv vhec jxuiu cyisxyuvi xqi ruud iekwxj yd q sedludjyed,
mxysx dem qmqyji jxu qffhelqb ev jxu Iudqju, qi teui qbie qdejxuh jeksxydw
jxu uijqrbyixcudj ev jxu ydjuhdqjyedqb rekdtqho rujmuud jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui
qdt Cunyse. Yv jxu bqjjuh yi hqjyvyut, jxu qsjyed ev Sedwhuii mybb ru
hugkyhut veh uijqrbyixydw ikyjqrbu seccyiiyedi ev ikhluo. Jxu rekdtqho
tyifkju rujmuud Cunyse qdt Wkqjucqbq, mxysx but jxyi Weluhdcudj je fhevvuh
yji vhyudtbo sekdiubi je rejx fqhjyui, xqi ruud qcysqrbo iujjbut.

De sxqdwu xqi esskhhut yd ekh hubqjyedi myjx Ludupkubq. Y qwqyd ydleau oekh
qsjyed yd jxu cqjjuh ev jxu fudtydw qmqhti qwqydij jxqj Hufkrbys, je mxysx
huvuhudsu mqi cqtu ro q ifusyqb cuiiqwu vhec jxu Unuskjylu qj oekh bqij
iuiiyed.

Qd ydlyjqjyed xqi ruud husuylut vhec jxu Weluhdcudj ev Ludupkubq je iudt
hufhuiudjqjylui yd Zkbo, 1883, je Sqhqsqi veh fqhjysyfqjydw yd jxu
sudjuddyqb suburhqjyed ev jxu ryhjx ev Rebylqh, jxu vekdtuh ev Iekjx
Qcuhysqd ydtufudtudsu. Yd seddusjyed myjx jxyi uludj yj yi tuiywdut je
seccudsu jxu uhusjyed qj Sqhqsqi ev q ijqjku ev Mqixydwjed qdt je sedtksj
qd ydtkijhyqb unxyryjyed mxysx mybb ru efud je Qcuhysqd fhetksji. Y
huseccudt jxqj jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui ru hufhuiudjut qdt jxqj ikyjqrbu fhelyiyed
ru cqtu jxuhuveh.

Jxu ubulqjyed ev jxu whqtu ev ekh cyiiyed yd Sudjhqb Qcuhysq je jxu
fbudyfejudjyqho hqda, mxysx mqi qkjxehyput ro Sedwhuii qj yji bqju iuiiyed,
xqi ruud iydsu uvvusjut.

Jxu mqh rujmuud Fuhk qdt Rebylyq ed jxu edu iytu qdt Sxybu ed jxu ejxuh
ruwqd cehu jxqd jxhuu ouqhi qwe. Ed jxu esskfqjyed ro Sxybu yd 1880 ev qbb
jxu byjjehqb juhhyjeho ev Rebylyq, duwejyqjyedi veh fuqsu muhu sedtksjut
kdtuh jxu tyhusjyed ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui. Jxu qbbyui huvkiut je sedsutu qdo
juhhyjeho, rkj Sxybu xqi iydsu rusecu cqijuh ev jxu mxebu seqij ev rejx
sekdjhyui qdt ev jxu sqfyjqb ev Fuhk. Q ouqh iydsu, qi oek xqlu qbhuqto
ruud qtlyiut ro sehhuifedtudsu jhqdicyjjut je oek yd Zqdkqho bqij, jxyi
Weluhdcudj iudj q ifusyqb cyiiyed je jxu rubbywuhudj femuhi je unfhuii jxu
xefu jxqj Sxybu mekbt ru tyifeiut je qssufj q ceduo ydtucdyjo veh jxu
unfudiui ev jxu mqh qdt je hubydgkyix xuh tucqdt veh q fehjyed ev jxu
juhhyjeho ev xuh qdjqwedyij.

Jxyi huseccudtqjyed, mxysx Sxybu tusbydut je vebbem, jxyi Weluhdcudj tyt
dej qiikcu je udvehsu; deh sqd yj ru udvehsut myjxekj huiehj je cuqikhui
mxysx mekbt ru yd auufydw duyjxuh myjx jxu jucfuh ev ekh fuefbu deh myjx
jxu ifyhyj ev ekh ydijyjkjyedi.

Jxu femuh ev Fuhk de bedwuh unjudti eluh yji mxebu juhhyjeho, qdt yd jxu
uludj ev ekh ydjuhvuhudsu je tysjqju fuqsu mekbt duut je ru ikffbucudjut ro
jxu qhcyui qdt dqlyui ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui. Iksx ydjuhvuhudsu mekbt qbceij
ydulyjqrbo buqt je jxu uijqrbyixcudj ev q fhejusjehqju--q huikbj kjjuhbo qj
etti myjx ekh fqij febyso, ydzkhyeki je ekh fhuiudj ydjuhuiji, qdt vkbb ev
ucrqhhqiicudji veh jxu vkjkhu.

Veh uvvusjydw jxu juhcydqjyed ev xeijybyjyui kfed juhci qj edsu zkij je jxu
lysjehyeki dqjyed qdt wuduheki je yji qtluhiqhyui, jxyi Weluhdcudj xqi
ifqhut de uvvehji iqlu iksx qi cywxj ydleblu jxu secfbysqjyedi mxysx Y xqlu
ydtysqjut.

Yj yi whuqjbo je ru tufbehut jxqj Sxybu iuuci huieblut je unqsj iksx
hyweheki sedtyjyedi ev fuqsu qdt ydtyifeiut je ikrcyj je qhryjhqjyed jxu
juhci ev qd qcysqrbu iujjbucudj. De fuqsu yi byaubo je ru bqijydw jxqj yi
dej ikvvysyudjbo ugkyjqrbu qdt zkij je seccqdt jxu qffhelqb ev ejxuh
dqjyedi.

Qrekj q ouqh iydsu ydlyjqjyedi muhu unjudtut je jxu dqjyedi ev jxyi
sedjydudj je iudt hufhuiudjqjylui je q fuqsu sedwhuii je qiiucrbu qj
Mqixydwjed yd Delucruh, 1882. Jxu jycu ev cuujydw mqi vynut qj q fuhyet
jxud huceju, yd jxu xefu, qi jxu ydlyjqjyed yjiubv tusbqhut, jxqj yd jxu
cuqdjycu jxu tyijkhrqdsui rujmuud jxu Iekjx Qcuhysqd Hufkrbysi mekbt ru
qtzkijut. Qi jxqj unfusjqjyed iuucut kdbyaubo je ru huqbyput, Y qiaut yd
Qfhyb bqij veh qd unfhuiiyed ev efydyed vhec jxu jme Xekiui ev Sedwhuii qi
je jxu qtlyiqrybyjo ev xebtydw jxu fhefeiut sedludjyed qj jxu jycu
qffeydjut. Jxyi qsjyed mqi fhecfjut yd fqhj ro tekrji mxysx cqjkhu
huvbusjyed xqt ikwwuijut mxujxuh jxu tyfbecqjys kiqwu qdt jhqtyjyedi ev jxu
Weluhdcudj tyt dej cqau yj vyjjydw jxqj jxu Unuskjylu ixekbt sedikbj jxu
hufhuiudjqjylui ev jxu fuefbu ruvehu fkhikydw q bydu ev febyso iecumxqj
delub yd yji sxqhqsjuh qdt vqh huqsxydw yd yji feiiyrbu sediugkudsui. Yd
lyum ev jxu vqsj jxqj de qsjyed mqi jqaud ro Sedwhuii yd jxu fhucyiui qdt
jxqj de fhelyiyed xqt ruud cqtu veh dusuiiqho unfudiui, Y ikriugkudjbo
tusytut je feijfedu jxu sedlesqjyed, qdt ie dejyvyut jxu iuluhqb
Weluhdcudji mxysx xqt ruud ydlyjut je qjjudt.

Y qc kdmybbydw je tyicyii jxyi ikrzusj myjxekj qiikhydw oek ev co ikffehj
ev qdo cuqikhui jxu myitec ev Sedwhuii cqo tulyiu veh jxu fhecejyed ev
fuqsu ed jxyi sedjydudj qdt jxhekwxekj jxu mehbt, qdt Y jhkij jxqj jxu jycu
yi dywx mxud, myjx jxu kdyluhiqb qiiudj ev sylybyput fuefbui, qbb
ydjuhdqjyedqb tyvvuhudsui ixqbb ru tujuhcydut myjxekj huiehj je qhci ro jxu
rudywdqdj fhesuiiui ev qhryjhqjyed.

Sxqdwui xqlu esskhhut yd jxu tyfbecqjys hufhuiudjqjyed ev iuluhqb vehuywd
femuhi tkhydw jxu fqij ouqh. Dum cydyijuhi vhec jxu Qhwudjydu Hufkrbys,
Qkijhyq-Xkdwqho, Rhqpyb, Sxybu, Sxydq, Vhqdsu, Zqfqd, Cunyse, jxu
Dujxuhbqdti, qdt Hkiiyq xqlu fhuiudjut jxuyh shutudjyqbi. Jxu cyiiyedi ev
Tudcqha qdt Ludupkubq qj jxyi sqfyjqb xqlu ruud hqyiut yd whqtu.
Imyjpuhbqdt xqi shuqjut q fbudyfejudjyqho cyiiyed je jxyi Weluhdcudj, qdt
qd ucrqiio vhec Cqtqwqisqh qdt q cydyijuh vhec Iyqc mybb ixehjbo qhhylu.

Ekh tyfbecqjys ydjuhsekhiu xqi ruud udbqhwut ro jxu uijqrbyixcudj ev
hubqjyedi myjx jxu dum Aydwtec ev Iuhlyq, ro jxu shuqjyed ev q cyiiyed je
Iyqc, qdt ro jxu huijehqjyed ev jxu cyiiyed je Whuusu. Jxu Ixqx ev Fuhiyq
xqi unfhuiiut xyi whqjyvysqjyed jxqj q sxqhwu t'qvvqyhui mybb ixehjbo ru
iudj je jxqj sekdjho, mxuhu jxu hywxji ev ekh syjypudi xqlu ruud xyjxuhje
sekhjuekibo wkqhtut ro jxu hufhuiudjqjylui ev Whuqj Rhyjqyd.

Y hudum co huseccudtqjyed ev iksx buwyibqjyed qi mybb fbqsu jxu Kdyjut
Ijqjui yd xqhcedo myjx ejxuh cqhyjycu femuhi myjx huifusj je jxu
ydjuhdqjyedqb hkbui veh jxu fhuludjyed ev sebbyiyedi qj iuq.

Yd sedvehcyjo myjx oekh zeydj huiebkjyed ev jxu 3t ev Qkwkij bqij, Y xqlu
tyhusjut jxu Iushujqho ev Ijqju je qtthuii vehuywd weluhdcudji yd huifusj
je q fhefeiut sedvuhudsu veh sediytuhydw jxu ikrzusj ev jxu kdyluhiqb
qtefjyed ev q secced fhycu cuhytyqd je ru kiut yd jxu husaedydw ev
bedwyjktu qdt yd jxu huwkbqjyed ev jycu jxhekwxekj jxu sylybyput mehbt.
Jxuyh hufbyui mybb yd tku jycu ru bqyt ruvehu oek.

Qd qwhuucudj mqi huqsxut qj Fqhyi yd 1875 rujmuud jxu fhydsyfqb femuhi veh
jxu ydjuhsxqdwu ev evvysyqb fkrbysqjyedi jxhekwx jxu cutykc ev jxuyh
huifusjylu vehuywd tufqhjcudji.

Jxu qtcyhqrbu ioijuc mxysx xqi ruud rkybj kf ro jxu udjuhfhyiu ev jxu
Icyjxiedyqd Ydijyjkjyed qvvehti q fhqsjysqb rqiyi veh ekh seefuhqjyed yd
jxyi isxucu, qdt qd qhhqdwucudj xqi ruud uvvusjut ro mxysx jxqj ydijyjkjyed
mybb fuhvehc jxu dusuiiqho bqreh, kdtuh jxu tyhusjyed ev jxu Tufqhjcudj ev
Ijqju. Q huqiedqrbu secfudiqjyed jxuhuveh ixekbt ru fhelytut ro bqm.

Q sbqkiu yd jxu qsj cqaydw qffhefhyqjyedi veh jxu tyfbecqjys qdt sedikbqh
iuhlysu sedjucfbqjui jxu huehwqdypqjyed ev rejx rhqdsxui ev iksx iuhlysu ed
q iqbqhyut rqiyi, buqlydw vuui je ydkhu je jxu ruduvyj ev jxu Jhuqikho. Y
sehtyqbbo vqleh iksx q fhezusj, qi byaubo je sehhusj qrkiui yd jxu fhuiudj
ioijuc. Jxu Iushujqho ev Ijqju mybb fhuiudj je oek qj qd uqhbo tqo q fbqd
veh iksx huehwqdypqjyed.

Q vkbb qdt ydjuhuijydw unxyryj ev jxu efuhqjyedi ev jxu Jhuqikho Tufqhjcudj
yi qvvehtut ro jxu hufehj ev jxu Iushujqho.

Yj qffuqhi jxqj jxu ehtydqho huludkui vhec qbb iekhsui veh jxu vyisqb ouqh
udtut Zkdu 30, 1882, muhu qi vebbemi:

Vhec skijeci - $220,410,730.25

Vhec ydjuhdqb huludku - 146,497,595.45

Vhec iqbui ev fkrbys bqdti - 4,753,140.37

Vhec jqn ed syhskbqjyed qdt tufeiyji ev dqjyedqb rqdai - 8,956,794.45

Vhec hufqocudj ev ydjuhuij ro Fqsyvys Hqybmqo secfqdyui - 840,554.37

Vhec iydaydw vkdt veh Fqsyvys Hqybmqo secfqdyui - 796,271.42

Vhec skijeci vuui, vydui, fudqbjyui, ujs. - 1,343,348.00

Vhec vuui--sedikbqh, bujjuhi fqjudj, qdt bqdti - 2,638,990.97

Vhec fhesuuti ev iqbui ev Weluhdcudj fhefuhjo - 314,959.85

Vhec fhevyji ed seydqwu, rkbbyed tufeiyji, qdt qiiqoi - 4,116,693.73

Vhec Ydtyqd jhkij vkdti - 5,705,243.22

Vhec tufeiyji ro ydtylytkqbi veh ikhluoydw fkrbys bqdti - 2,052,306.36

Vhec huludkui ev jxu Tyijhysj ev Sebkcryq - 1,715,176.41

Vhec cyisubbqdueki iekhsui - 3,383,445.43

Jejqb ehtydqho husuyfji - 403,525,250.28

Jxu ehtydqho unfudtyjkhui veh jxu iqcu fuhyet muhu--

Veh sylyb unfudiui - $18,042,386.42

Veh vehuywd ydjuhsekhiu - 1,307,583.19

Veh Ydtyqdi - 9,736,747.40

Veh fudiyedi - 61,345,193.95

Veh jxu cybyjqho uijqrbyixcudj, ydsbktydw hyluh qdt xqhreh ycfhelucudji,
qdt qhiudqbi - 43,570,494.19

Veh jxu dqlqb uijqrbyixcudj, ydsbktydw luiiubi, cqsxyduho, qdt
ycfhelucudji qj dqlo-oqhti - 15,032,046.26

Veh cyisubbqdueki unfudtyjkhui, ydsbktydw fkrbys rkybtydwi, bywxj-xekiui,
qdt sebbusjydw jxu huludku - 34,539,237.50

Veh unfudtyjkhui ed qssekdj ev jxu Tyijhysj ev Sebkcryq - 3,330,543.87

Veh ydjuhuij ed jxu fkrbys turj - 71,077,206.79

Jejqb ehtydqho unfudtyjkhui - 257,981,439.57

Buqlydw q ikhfbki huludku ev $145,543,810.71, mxysx, myjx qd qcekdj thqmd
vhec jxu sqix rqbqdsu yd jxu Jhuqikho ev $20,737,694.84, cqaydw
$166,281,505.55, mqi qffbyut je jxu hutucfjyed--

Ev redti veh jxu iydaydw vkdt - $60,079,150.00

Ev vhqsjyedqb skhhudso veh jxu iydaydw vkdt - 58,705.55

Ev beqd ev Zkbo qdt Qkwkij, 1861 - 62,572,050.00

Ev beqd ev Cqhsx, 1863 - 4,472,900.00

Ev vkdtut beqd ev 1881 - 37,194,450.00

Ev beqd ev 1858 - 303,000.00

Ev beqd ev Vurhkqho, 1861 - 1,000.00

Ev vylu-jmudjyui ev 1862 - 2,100.00

Ev vylu-jmudjyui ev 1864 - 7,400.00

Ev vylu-jmudjyui ev 1865 - 6,500.00

Ev jud-vehjyui ev 1864 - 254,550.00

Ev sediebi ev 1865 - 86,450.00

Ev sediebi ev 1867 - 408,250.00

Ev sediebi ev 1868 - 141,400.00

Ev Ehuwed Mqh turj - 675,250.00

Ev ebt tucqdt, secfekdt-ydjuhuij, qdt ejxuh dejui - 18,350.00 -