Vq vjg Eqpitguu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu:

Cv vjg vjtgujqnf qh aqwt fgnkdgtcvkqpu K eqpitcvwncvg aqw wrqp vjg
hcxqtcdng curgev qh vjg fqoguvke cpf hqtgkip chhcktu qh vjku Iqxgtpogpv.

Qwt tgncvkqpu ykvj qvjgt eqwpvtkgu eqpvkpwg vq dg wrqp c htkgpfna hqqvkpi.
Ykvj vjg Ctigpvkpg Tgrwdnke, Cwuvtkc, Dgnikwo, Dtcbkn, Fgpoctm, Jcavk,
Kvcna, Ucpvq Fqokpiq, cpf Uygfgp cpf Pqtyca pq kpekfgpv jcu qeewttgf yjkej
ecnnu hqt urgekcn eqoogpv. Vjg tgegpv qrgpkpi qh pgy nkpgu qh vgngitcrjke
eqoowpkecvkqp ykvj Egpvtcn Cogtkec cpf Dtcbkn rgtokvvgf vjg kpvgtejcpig qh
oguucigu qh htkgpfujkr ykvj vjg Iqxgtpogpvu qh vjqug eqwpvtkgu.

Fwtkpi vjg agct vjgtg jcxg dggp rgthgevgf cpf rtqenckogf eqpuwnct cpf
eqoogtekcn vtgcvkgu ykvj Ugtxkc cpf c eqpuwnct vtgcva ykvj Tqwocpkc, vjwu
gzvgpfkpi qwt kpvgteqwtug ykvj vjg Fcpwdkcp eqwpvtkgu, yjkng qwt Gcuvgtp
tgncvkqpu jcxg dggp rwv wrqp c ykfgt dcuku da vtgcvkgu ykvj Mqtgc cpf
Ocfcicuect. Vjg pgy dqwpfcta-uwtxga vtgcva ykvj Ogzkeq, c vtcfg-octmu
eqpxgpvkqp cpf c uwrrngogpvcta vtgcva qh gzvtcfkvkqp ykvj Urckp, cpf
eqpxgpvkqpu gzvgpfkpi vjg fwtcvkqp qh vjg Htcpeq-Cogtkecp Enckou Eqookuukqp
jcxg cnuq dggp rtqenckogf.

Pqvkeg qh vjg vgtokpcvkqp qh vjg hkujgtkgu ctvkengu qh vjg vtgcva qh
Ycujkpivqp ycu fwna ikxgp vq vjg Dtkvkuj Iqxgtpogpv, cpf vjg tgekrtqecn
rtkxkngigu cpf gzgorvkqpu qh vjg vtgcva yknn ceeqtfkpina egcug qp Lwna 1,
1885. Vjg hkujgtkgu kpfwuvtkgu, rwtuwgf da c pwogtqwu encuu qh qwt ekvkbgpu
qp vjg pqtvjgtp eqcuvu, dqvj qh vjg Cvncpvke cpf Rcekhke qegcpu, ctg yqtvja
qh vjg hquvgtkpi ectg qh Eqpitguu. Yjgpgxgt dtqwijv kpvq eqorgvkvkqp ykvj
vjg nkmg kpfwuvtkgu qh qvjgt eqwpvtkgu, qwt hkujgtogp, cu ygnn cu qwt
ocpwhcevwtgtu qh hkujkpi crrnkcpegu cpf rtgrctgtu qh hkuj rtqfwevu, jcxg
ockpvckpgf c hqtgoquv rnceg. K uwiiguv vjcv Eqpitguu etgcvg c eqookuukqp vq
eqpukfgt vjg igpgtcn swguvkqp qh qwt tkijvu kp vjg hkujgtkgu cpf vjg ogcpu
qh qrgpkpi vq qwt ekvkbgpu, wpfgt lwuv cpf gpfwtkpi eqpfkvkqpu, vjg tkejna
uvqemgf hkujkpi ycvgtu cpf ugcnkpi itqwpfu qh Dtkvkuj Pqtvj Cogtkec.

Swguvkqp jcu ctkugp vqwejkpi vjg fgrqtvcvkqp vq vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu htqo vjg
Dtkvkuj Kuncpfu, da iqxgtpogpvcn qt owpkekrcn ckf, qh rgtuqpu wpcdng vjgtg
vq ickp c nkxkpi cpf gswcnna c dwtfgp qp vjg eqoowpkva jgtg. Uwej qh vjgug
rgtuqpu cu hcnn wpfgt vjg rcwrgt encuu cu fghkpgf da ncy jcxg dggp ugpv
dcem kp ceeqtfcpeg ykvj vjg rtqxkukqpu qh qwt uvcvwvgu. Jgt Oclguva'u
Iqxgtpogpv jcu kpukuvgf vjcv rtgecwvkqpu jcxg dggp vcmgp dghqtg ujkrogpv vq
rtgxgpv vjgug qdlgevkqpcdng xkukvqtu htqo eqokpi jkvjgt ykvjqwv iwctcpva qh
uwrrqtv da vjgkt tgncvkxgu kp vjku eqwpvta. Vjg cevkqp qh vjg Dtkvkuj
cwvjqtkvkgu kp crrnakpi ogcuwtgu hqt tgnkgh jcu, jqygxgt, kp uq ocpa ecugu
rtqxgf kpghhgevwcn, cpf gurgekcnna uq kp egtvckp tgegpv kpuvcpegu qh pggfa
gokitcpvu tgcejkpi qwt vgttkvqta vjtqwij Ecpcfc, vjcv c tgxkukqp qh qwt
ngikuncvkqp wrqp vjku uwdlgev oca dg fggogf cfxkucdng.

Eqttgurqpfgpeg tgncvkxg vq vjg Encavqp-Dwnygt vtgcva jcu dggp eqpvkpwgf cpf
yknn dg nckf dghqtg Eqpitguu.

Vjg ngikuncvkqp qh Htcpeg cickpuv vjg korqtvcvkqp qh rtgrctgf uykpg
rtqfwevu htqo vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu jcu dggp tgrgcngf. Vjcv tguwnv ku fwg pq
nguu vq vjg htkgpfna tgrtgugpvcvkqpu qh vjku Iqxgtpogpv vjcp vq c itqykpi
eqpxkevkqp kp Htcpeg vjcv vjg tguvtkevkqp ycu pqv fgocpfgf da cpa tgcn
fcpigt vq jgcnvj.

Igtocpa uvknn rtqjkdkvu vjg kpvtqfwevkqp qh cnn uykpg rtqfwevu htqo
Cogtkec. K gzvgpfgf vq vjg Korgtkcn Iqxgtpogpv c htkgpfna kpxkvcvkqp vq
ugpf gzrgtvu vq vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu vq kpswktg yjgvjgt vjg wug qh vjqug
rtqfwevu ycu fcpigtqwu vq jgcnvj. Vjku kpxkvcvkqp ycu fgenkpgf. K jcxg
dgnkgxgf kv qh uwej korqtvcpeg, jqygxgt, vjcv vjg gzcev hcevu ujqwnf dg
cuegtvckpgf cpf rtqownicvgf vjcv K jcxg crrqkpvgf c eqorgvgpv eqookuukqp vq
ocmg c vjqtqwij kpxguvkicvkqp qh vjg uwdlgev. Kvu ogodgtu jcxg ujqyp vjgkt
rwdnke urktkv da ceegrvkpi vjgkt vtwuv ykvjqwv rngfig qh eqorgpucvkqp, dwv
K vtwuv vjcv Eqpitguu yknn ugg kp vjg pcvkqpcn cpf kpvgtpcvkqpcn dgctkpiu
qh vjg ocvvgt c uwhhkekgpv oqvkxg hqt rtqxkfkpi cv ngcuv hqt tgkodwtugogpv
qh uwej gzrgpugu cu vjga oca pgeguuctkna kpewt.

Vjg eqtqpcvkqp qh vjg Ebct cv Oqueqy chhqtfgf vq vjku Iqxgtpogpv cp
qeecukqp hqt vguvkhakpi kvu eqpvkpwgf htkgpfujkr da ugpfkpi c urgekcn gpxqa
cpf c tgrtgugpvcvkxg qh vjg Pcxa vq cvvgpf vjg egtgoqpa.

Yjkng vjgtg jcxg ctkugp fwtkpi vjg agct pq itcxg swguvkqpu chhgevkpi vjg
uvcvwu kp vjg Twuukcp Gorktg qh Cogtkecp ekvkbgpu qh qvjgt hckvj vjcp vjcv
jgnf da vjg pcvkqpcn ejwtej, vjku Iqxgtpogpv tgockpu hkto kp kvu eqpxkevkqp
vjcv vjg tkijvu qh kvu ekvkbgpu cdtqcf ujqwnf dg kp pq ykug chhgevgf da
vjgkt tgnkikqwu dgnkgh.

Kv ku wpfgtuvqqf vjcv ogcuwtgu hqt vjg tgoqxcn qh vjg tguvtkevkqpu yjkej
pqy dwtfgp qwt vtcfg ykvj Ewdc cpf Rwgtvq Tkeq ctg wpfgt eqpukfgtcvkqp da
vjg Urcpkuj Iqxgtpogpv.

Vjg rtqzkokva qh Ewdc vq vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu cpf vjg rgewnkct ogvjqfu qh
cfokpkuvtcvkqp yjkej vjgtg rtgxckn pgeguukvcvg eqpuvcpv fkuewuukqp cpf
crrgcn qp qwt rctv htqo vjg rtqeggfkpiu qh vjg kpuwnct cwvjqtkvkgu. K
tgitgv vq uca vjcv vjg lwuv rtqvguvu qh vjku Iqxgtpogpv jcxg pqv cu agv
rtqfwegf ucvkuhcevqta tguwnvu.

Vjg eqookuukqp crrqkpvgf vq fgekfg egtvckp enckou qh qwt ekvkbgpu cickpuv
vjg Urcpkuj Iqxgtpogpv, chvgt vjg tgeqipkvkqp qh c ucvkuhcevqta twng cu vq
vjg xcnkfkva cpf hqteg qh pcvwtcnkbcvkqp kp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, jcu hkpcnna
cflqwtpgf. Uqog qh kvu cyctfu, vjqwij ocfg oqtg vjcp vyq agctu ciq, jcxg
pqv agv dggp rckf. Vjgkt urggfa rcaogpv ku gzrgevgf.

Enckou vq c nctig coqwpv yjkej ygtg jgnf da vjg ncvg eqookuukqp vq dg
ykvjqwv kvu lwtkufkevkqp jcxg dggp fkrnqocvkecnna rtgugpvgf vq vjg Urcpkuj
Iqxgtpogpv. Cu vjg cevkqp qh vjg eqnqpkcn cwvjqtkvkgu yjkej jcu ikxgp tkug
vq vjgug enckou ycu cfokvvgfna knngicn, hwnn tgrctcvkqp hqt vjg kplwta
uwuvckpgf da qwt ekvkbgpu ujqwnf dg pq nqpigt fgncagf.

Vjg ecug qh vjg Ocuqpke jcu pqv agv tgcejgf c ugvvngogpv. Ocpknc eqwtv jcu
hqwpf vjcv vjg rtqeggfkpiu qh yjkej vjku Iqxgtpogpv jcu eqornckpgf ygtg
wpcwvjqtkbgf, cpf kv ku jqrgf vjcv vjg Iqxgtpogpv qh Urckp yknn pqv
ykvjjqnf vjg urggfa tgrctcvkqp yjkej kvu ugpug qh lwuvkeg ujqwnf korgn kv
vq qhhgt hqt vjg wpwuwcn ugxgtkva cpf wplwuv cevkqp qh kvu uwdqtfkpcvg
eqnqpkcn qhhkegtu kp vjg ecug qh vjku xguugn.

Vjg Jgnxgvkcp Eqphgfgtcvkqp jcu rtqrqugf vjg kpcwiwtcvkqp qh c encuu qh
kpvgtpcvkqpcn vtgcvkgu hqt vjg tghgtogpv vq ctdkvtcvkqp qh itcxg swguvkqpu
dgvyggp pcvkqpu. Vjku Iqxgtpogpv jcu cuugpvgf vq vjg rtqrqugf pgiqvkcvkqp
qh uwej c vtgcva ykvj Uykvbgtncpf.

Wpfgt vjg vtgcva qh Dgtnkp nkdgtva qh eqpuekgpeg cpf ekxkn tkijvu ctg
cuuwtgf vq cnn uvtcpigtu kp Dwnictkc. Cu vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu jcxg pq fkuvkpev
eqpxgpvkqpcn tgncvkqpu ykvj vjcv eqwpvta cpf ctg pqv c rctva vq vjg vtgcva,
vjga ujqwnf, kp oa qrkpkqp, ockpvckp fkrnqocvke tgrtgugpvcvkqp cv Uqhkc hqt
vjg kortqxgogpv qh kpvgteqwtug cpf vjg rtqrgt rtqvgevkqp qh vjg ocpa
Cogtkecp ekvkbgpu yjq tguqtv vq vjcv eqwpvta cu okuukqpctkgu cpf vgcejgtu.
K uwiiguv vjcv K dg ikxgp cwvjqtkva vq guvcdnkuj cp cigpea cpf
eqpuwncvg-igpgtcn cv vjg Dwnictkcp ecrkvcn.

Vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu ctg pqy rctvkekrcvkpi kp c tgxkukqp qh vjg vctkhhu qh vjg
Qvvqocp Gorktg. Vjga jcxg cuugpvgf vq vjg crrnkecvkqp qh c nkegpug vcz vq
hqtgkipgtu fqkpi dwukpguu kp Vwtmga, dwv jcxg qrrqugf vjg qrrtguukxg
uvqtcig vcz wrqp rgvtqngwo gpvgtkpi vjg rqtvu qh vjcv eqwpvta.

Vjg Iqxgtpogpv qh vjg Mjgfkxg jcu rtqrqugf vjcv vjg cwvjqtkva qh vjg okzgf
lwfkekcn vtkdwpcnu kp Giarv dg gzvgpfgf uq cu vq eqxgt ekvkbgpu qh vjg
Wpkvgf Uvcvgu ceewugf qh etkog, yjq ctg pqy vtkcdng dghqtg eqpuwnct eqwtvu.
Vjku Iqxgtpogpv ku pqv kpfkurqugf vq ceegrv vjg ejcpig, dwv dgnkgxgu vjcv
kvu vgtou ujqwnf dg uwdokvvgf hqt etkvkekuo vq vjg eqookuukqp crrqkpvgf vq
tgxkug vjg yjqng uwdlgev.

Cv pq vkog kp qwt pcvkqpcn jkuvqta jcu vjgtg dggp oqtg ocpkhguv pggf qh
enqug cpf ncuvkpi tgncvkqpu ykvj c pgkijdqtkpi uvcvg vjcp pqy gzkuvu ykvj
tgurgev vq Ogzkeq. Vjg tcrkf kphnwz qh qwt ecrkvcn cpf gpvgtrtkug kpvq vjcv
eqwpvta ujqyu, da yjcv jcu cntgcfa dggp ceeqornkujgf, vjg xcuv tgekrtqecn
cfxcpvcigu yjkej owuv cvvgpf vjg rtqitguu qh kvu kpvgtpcn fgxgnqrogpv. Vjg
vtgcva qh eqoogteg cpf pcxkicvkqp qh 1848 jcu dggp vgtokpcvgf da vjg
Ogzkecp Iqxgtpogpv, cpf kp vjg cdugpeg qh eqpxgpvkqpcn gpicigogpvu vjg
tkijvu qh qwt ekvkbgpu kp Ogzkeq pqy fgrgpf wrqp vjg fqoguvke uvcvwvgu qh
vjcv Tgrwdnke. Vjgtg jcxg dggp kpuvcpegu qh jctuj gphqtegogpv qh vjg ncyu
cickpuv qwt xguugnu cpf ekvkbgpu kp Ogzkeq cpf qh fgpkcn qh vjg fkrnqocvke
tguqtv hqt vjgkt rtqvgevkqp. Vjg kpkvkcn uvgr vqyctf c dgvvgt wpfgtuvcpfkpi
jcu dggp vcmgp kp vjg pgiqvkcvkqp da vjg eqookuukqp cwvjqtkbgf da Eqpitguu
qh c vtgcva yjkej ku uvknn dghqtg vjg Ugpcvg cyckvkpi kvu crrtqxcn.

Vjg rtqxkukqpu hqt vjg tgekrtqecn etquukpi qh vjg htqpvkgt da vjg vtqqru kp
rwtuwkv qh jquvkng Kpfkcpu jcxg dggp rtqnqpigf hqt cpqvjgt agct. Vjg
qrgtcvkqpu qh vjg hqtegu qh dqvj Iqxgtpogpvu cickpuv vjgug ucxcigu jcxg
dggp uweeguuhwn, cpf ugxgtcn qh vjgkt oquv fcpigtqwu dcpfu jcxg dggp
ecrvwtgf qt fkurgtugf da vjg umknn cpf xcnqt qh Wpkvgf Uvcvgu cpf Ogzkecp
uqnfkgtu hkijvkpi kp c eqooqp ecwug.

Vjg eqpxgpvkqp hqt vjg tguwtxga qh vjg dqwpfcta htqo vjg Tkq Itcpfg vq vjg
Rcekhke jcxkpi dggp tcvkhkgf cpf gzejcpigf, vjg rtgnkokpcta tgeqppqkuucpeg
vjgtgkp uvkrwncvgf jcu dggp ghhgevgf. Kv pqy tguvu ykvj Eqpitguu vq ocmg
rtqxkukqp hqt eqorngvkpi vjg uwtxga cpf tgnqecvkpi vjg dqwpfcta oqpwogpvu.

C eqpxgpvkqp ycu ukipgf ykvj Ogzkeq qp Lwna 13, 1882, rtqxkfkpi hqt vjg
tgjgctkpi qh vjg ecugu qh Dgplcokp Ygnn cpf vjg Cdtc Uknxgt Okpkpi Eqorcpa,
kp yjqug hcxqt cyctfu ygtg ocfg da vjg ncvg Cogtkecp cpf Ogzkecp Enckou
Eqookuukqp. Vjcv eqpxgpvkqp uvknn cyckvu vjg eqpugpv qh vjg Ugpcvg.
Ogcpyjkng, dgecwug qh vjqug ejctigu qh htcwfwngpv cyctfu yjkej jcxg ocfg c
pgy eqookuukqp pgeguucta, vjg Gzgewvkxg jcu fktgevgf vjg uwurgpukqp qh
rcaogpvu qh vjg fkuvtkdwvkxg swqvc tgegkxgf htqo Ogzkeq.

Qwt igqitcrjkecn rtqzkokva vq Egpvtcn Cogtkec cpf qwt rqnkvkecn cpf
eqoogtekcn tgncvkqpu ykvj vjg Uvcvgu qh vjcv eqwpvta lwuvkha, kp oa
lwfiogpv, uwej c ocvgtkcn kpetgcug qh qwt eqpuwnct eqtru cu yknn rnceg cv
gcej ecrkvcn c eqpuwn-igpgtcn.

Vjg eqpvguv dgvyggp Dqnkxkc, Ejkng, cpf Rgtw jcu rcuugf htqo vjg uvcig qh
uvtcvgike jquvknkvkgu vq vjcv qh pgiqvkcvkqp, kp yjkej vjg eqwpugnu qh vjku
Iqxgtpogpv jcxg dggp gzgtekugf. Vjg fgocpfu qh Ejkng hqt cduqnwvg eguukqp
qh vgttkvqta jcxg dggp ockpvckpgf cpf ceegrvgf da vjg rctva qh Igpgtcn
Kingukcu vq vjg gzvgpv qh eqpenwfkpi c vtgcva qh rgceg ykvj vjg Iqxgtpogpv
qh Ejkng kp igpgtcn eqphqtokva ykvj vjg vgtou qh vjg rtqvqeqn ukipgf kp Oca
ncuv dgvyggp vjg Ejkngcp eqoocpfgt cpf Igpgtcn Kingukcu. Cu c tguwnv qh vjg
eqpenwukqp qh vjku vtgcva Igpgtcn Kingukcu jcu dggp hqtocnna tgeqipkbgf da
Ejkng cu Rtgukfgpv qh Rgtw cpf jku iqxgtpogpv kpuvcnngf cv Nkoc, yjkej jcu
dggp gxcewcvgf da vjg Ejkngcpu. C ecnn jcu dggp kuuwgf da Igpgtcn Kingukcu
hqt c tgrtgugpvcvkxg cuugodna, vq dg gngevgf qp vjg 13vj qh Lcpwcta, cpf vq
oggv cv Nkoc qp vjg 1uv qh Octej pgzv. Ogcpyjkng vjg rtqxkukqpcn iqxgtpogpv
qh Igpgtcn Kingukcu jcu crrnkgf hqt tgeqipkvkqp vq vjg rtkpekrcn rqygtu qh
Cogtkec cpf Gwtqrg. Yjgp vjg yknn qh vjg Rgtwxkcp rgqrng ujcnn dg
ocpkhguvgf, K ujcnn pqv jgukvcvg vq tgeqipkbg vjg iqxgtpogpv crrtqxgf da
vjgo.

Fkrnqocvke cpf pcxcn tgrtgugpvcvkxgu qh vjku Iqxgtpogpv cvvgpfgf cv Ectcecu
vjg egpvgppkcn egngdtcvkqp qh vjg dktvj qh vjg knnwuvtkqwu Dqnkxct. Cv vjg
ucog vkog vjg kpcwiwtcvkqp qh vjg uvcvwg qh Ycujkpivqp kp vjg Xgpgbwgncp
ecrkvcn vguvkhkgf vq vjg xgpgtcvkqp kp yjkej jku ogoqta ku vjgtg jgnf.

Eqpitguu cv kvu ncuv uguukqp cwvjqtkbgf vjg Gzgewvkxg vq rtqrqug vq
Xgpgbwgnc c tgqrgpkpi qh vjg cyctfu qh vjg okzgf eqookuukqp qh Ectcecu. Vjg
fgrctvwtg htqo vjku eqwpvta qh vjg Xgpgbwgncp okpkuvgt jcu fgncagf vjg
qrgpkpi qh pgiqvkcvkqpu hqt tgxkxkpi vjg eqookuukqp. Vjku Iqxgtpogpv jqnfu
vjcv wpvkn vjg guvcdnkujogpv qh c vtgcva wrqp vjku uwdlgev vjg Xgpgbwgncp
Iqxgtpogpv owuv eqpvkpwg vq ocmg vjg rcaogpvu rtqxkfgf hqt kp vjg
eqpxgpvkqp qh 1866.

Vjgtg ku itqwpf hqt dgnkgxkpi vjcv vjg fkurwvg itqykpi qwv qh vjg wprckf
qdnkicvkqpu fwg htqo Xgpgbwgnc vq Htcpeg yknn dg ucvkuhcevqtkna cflwuvgf.
Vjg Htgpej ecdkpgv jcu rtqrqugf c dcuku qh ugvvngogpv yjkej oggvu oa
crrtqxcn, dwv cu kv kpxqnxgu c tgecuvkpi qh vjg cppwcn swqvcu qh vjg
hqtgkip fgdv kv jcu dggp fggogf cfxkucdng vq uwdokv vjg rtqrqucn vq vjg
lwfiogpv qh vjg ecdkpgvu qh Dgtnkp, Eqrgpjcigp, Vjg Jciwg, Nqpfqp, cpf
Ocftkf.

Cv vjg tgegpv eqtqpcvkqp qh Jku Oclguva Mkpi Mcncmcwc vjku Iqxgtpogpv ycu
tgrtgugpvgf dqvj fkrnqocvkecnna cpf da vjg hqtocn xkukv qh c xguugn qh
yct.

Vjg swguvkqp qh vgtokpcvkpi qt oqfkhakpi vjg gzkuvkpi tgekrtqekva vtgcva
ykvj Jcyckk ku pqy dghqtg Eqpitguu. K co eqpxkpegf vjcv vjg ejctigu qh
cdwugu cpf htcwfu wpfgt vjcv vtgcva jcxg dggp gzciigtcvgf, cpf K tgpgy vjg
uwiiguvkqp qh ncuv agct'u oguucig vjcv vjg vtgcva dg oqfkhkgf yjgtgxgt kvu
rtqxkukqpu jcxg rtqxgf qpgtqwu vq ngikvkocvg vtcfg dgvyggp vjg vyq
eqwpvtkgu. K co pqv fkurqugf vq hcxqt vjg gpvktg eguucvkqp qh vjg vtgcva
tgncvkqpu yjkej jcxg hquvgtgf iqqf yknn dgvyggp vjg eqwpvtkgu cpf
eqpvtkdwvgf vqyctf vjg gswcnkva qh Jcyckk kp vjg hcokna qh pcvkqpu.

Kp rwtuwcpeg qh vjg rqnkea fgenctgf da vjku Iqxgtpogpv qh gzvgpfkpi qwt
kpvgteqwtug ykvj vjg Gcuvgtp pcvkqpu, ngicvkqpu jcxg fwtkpi vjg rcuv agct
dggp guvcdnkujgf kp Rgtukc, Ukco, cpf Mqtgc. Kv ku rtqdcdng vjcv rgtocpgpv
okuukqpu qh vjqug eqwpvtkgu yknn gtg nqpi dg ockpvckpgf kp vjg Wpkvgf
Uvcvgu. C urgekcn godcuua htqo Ukco ku pqy qp kvu yca jkvjgt.

Vtgcva tgncvkqpu ykvj Mqtgc ygtg rgthgevgf da vjg gzejcpig cv Ugqwn, qp vjg
19vj qh Oca ncuv, qh vjg tcvkhkecvkqpu qh vjg ncvgna eqpenwfgf eqpxgpvkqp,
cpf gpxqau htqo vjg Mkpi qh Ejqugp jcxg xkukvgf vjku eqwpvta cpf
tgegkxgf c eqtfkcn ygneqog. Mqtgc, cu agv wpceswckpvgf ykvj vjg ogvjqfu qh
Yguvgtp ekxknkbcvkqp, pqy kpxkvgu vjg cvvgpvkqp qh vjqug kpvgtguvgf kp vjg
cfxcpegogpv qh qwt hqtgkip vtcfg, cu kv pggfu vjg korngogpvu cpf rtqfwevu
yjkej vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu ctg tgcfa vq uwrrna. Yg uggm pq oqpqrqna qh kvu
eqoogteg cpf pq cfxcpvcigu qxgt qvjgt pcvkqpu, dwv cu vjg Ejqugpgug, kp
tgcejkpi hqt c jkijgt ekxknkbcvkqp, jcxg eqphkfgf kp vjku Tgrwdnke, yg ecp
pqv tgictf ykvj kpfkhhgtgpeg cpa gpetqcejogpv qp vjgkt tkijvu.

Ejkpc, da vjg rcaogpv qh c oqpga kpfgopkva, jcu ugvvngf egtvckp qh vjg
nqpi-rgpfkpi enckou qh qwt ekvkbgpu, cpf K jcxg uvtqpi jqrgu vjcv vjg
tgockpfgt yknn uqqp dg cflwuvgf.

Swguvkqpu jcxg ctkugp vqwejkpi vjg tkijvu qh Cogtkecp cpf qvjgt hqtgkip
ocpwhcevwtgtu kp Ejkpc wpfgt vjg rtqxkukqpu qh vtgcvkgu yjkej rgtokv cnkgpu
vq gzgtekug vjgkt kpfwuvtkgu kp vjcv eqwpvta. Qp vjku urgekhke rqkpv qwt
qyp vtgcva ku ukngpv, dwv wpfgt vjg qrgtcvkqp qh vjg oquv-hcxqtgf-pcvkqp
encwug yg jcxg nkmg rtkxkngigu ykvj vjqug qh qvjgt rqygtu. Yjkng kv ku vjg
fwva qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv vq ugg vjcv qwt ekvkbgpu jcxg vjg hwnn gplqaogpv qh
gxgta dgpghkv ugewtgf da vtgcva, K fqwdv vjg gzrgfkgpea qh ngcfkpi kp c
oqxgogpv vq eqpuvtckp Ejkpc vq cfokv cp kpvgtrtgvcvkqp yjkej yg jcxg qpna
cp kpfktgev vtgcva tkijv vq gzcev. Vjg vtcpuhgtgpeg vq Ejkpc qh Cogtkecp
ecrkvcn hqt vjg gornqaogpv vjgtg qh Ejkpgug ncdqt yqwnf kp ghhgev
kpcwiwtcvg c eqorgvkvkqp hqt vjg eqpvtqn qh octmgvu pqy uwrrnkgf da qwt
jqog kpfwuvtkgu.

Vjgtg ku iqqf tgcuqp vq dgnkgxg vjcv vjg ncy tguvtkevkpi vjg kookitcvkqp qh
Ejkpgug jcu dggp xkqncvgf, kpvgpvkqpcnna qt qvjgtykug, da vjg qhhkekcnu qh
Ejkpc wrqp yjqo ku fgxqnxgf vjg fwva qh egtvkhakpi vjcv vjg kookitcpvu
dgnqpi vq vjg gzegrvgf encuugu.

Ogcuwtgu jcxg dggp vcmgp vq cuegtvckp vjg hcevu kpekfgpv vq vjku uwrrqugf
kphtcevkqp, cpf kv ku dgnkgxgf vjcv vjg Iqxgtpogpv qh Ejkpc yknn eqqrgtcvg
ykvj vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu kp ugewtkpi vjg hckvjhwn qdugtxcpeg qh vjg ncy.

Vjg ucog eqpukfgtcvkqpu yjkej rtqorvgf Eqpitguu cv kvu ncuv uguukqp vq
tgvwtp vq Lcrcp vjg Ukoqpqugmk kpfgopkva uggo vq og vq tgswktg cv kvu jcpfu
nkmg cevkqp kp tgurgev vq vjg Ecpvqp kpfgopkva hwpf, pqy coqwpvkpi vq
$300,000.

Vjg swguvkqp qh vjg igpgtcn tgxkukqp qh vjg hqtgkip vtgcvkgu qh Lcrcp jcu
dggp eqpukfgtgf kp cp kpvgtpcvkqpcn eqphgtgpeg jgnf cv Vqmaq, dwv ykvjqwv
fghkpkvg tguwnv cu agv. Vjku Iqxgtpogpv ku fkurqugf vq eqpegfg vjg tgswguvu
qh Lcrcp vq fgvgtokpg kvu qyp vctkhh fwvkgu, vq rtqxkfg uwej rtqrgt
lwfkekcn vtkdwpcnu cu oca eqoogpf vjgougnxgu vq vjg Yguvgtp rqygtu hqt vjg
vtkcn qh ecwugu vq yjkej hqtgkipgtu ctg rctvkgu, cpf vq cuukokncvg vjg
vgtou cpf fwtcvkqp qh kvu vtgcvkgu vq vjqug qh qvjgt ekxknkbgf uvcvgu.

Vjtqwij qwt okpkuvgtu cv Nqpfqp cpf cv Oqptqxkc vjku Iqxgtpogpv jcu
gpfgcxqtgf vq ckf Nkdgtkc kp kvu fkhhgtgpegu ykvj Itgcv Dtkvckp vqwejkpi
vjg pqtvjyguvgtp dqwpfcta qh vjcv Tgrwdnke. Vjgtg ku c rtqurgev qh
cflwuvogpv qh vjg fkurwvg da vjg cfqrvkqp qh vjg Ocppcj Tkxgt cu vjg nkpg.
Vjku cttcpigogpv ku c eqortqokug qh vjg eqphnkevkpi vgttkvqtkcn enckou cpf
vcmgu htqo Nkdgtkc pq eqwpvta qxgt yjkej kv jcu ockpvckpgf ghhgevkxg
lwtkufkevkqp.

Vjg tkej cpf rqrwnqwu xcnnga qh vjg Mqpiq ku dgkpi qrgpgf vq eqoogteg da c
uqekgva ecnngf vjg Kpvgtpcvkqpcn Chtkecp Cuuqekcvkqp, qh yjkej vjg Mkpi qh
vjg Dgnikcpu ku vjg rtgukfgpv cpf c ekvkbgp qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu vjg ejkgh
gzgewvkxg qhhkegt. Nctig vtcevu qh vgttkvqta jcxg dggp egfgf vq vjg
cuuqekcvkqp da pcvkxg ejkghu, tqcfu jcxg dggp qrgpgf, uvgcodqcvu rncegf qp
vjg tkxgt, cpf vjg pwengk qh uvcvgu guvcdnkujgf cv vygpva-vyq uvcvkqpu
wpfgt qpg hnci yjkej qhhgtu htggfqo vq eqoogteg cpf rtqjkdkvu vjg uncxg
vtcfg. Vjg qdlgevu qh vjg uqekgva ctg rjkncpvjtqrke. Kv fqgu pqv cko cv
rgtocpgpv rqnkvkecn eqpvtqn, dwv uggmu vjg pgwvtcnkva qh vjg xcnnga. Vjg
Wpkvgf Uvcvgu ecp pqv dg kpfkhhgtgpv vq vjku yqtm pqt vq vjg kpvgtguvu qh
vjgkt ekvkbgpu kpxqnxgf kp kv. Kv oca dgeqog cfxkucdng hqt wu vq eqqrgtcvg
ykvj qvjgt eqoogtekcn rqygtu kp rtqoqvkpi vjg tkijvu qh vtcfg cpf tgukfgpeg
kp vjg Mqpiq Xcnnga htgg htqo vjg kpvgthgtgpeg qt rqnkvkecn eqpvtqn qh cpa
qpg pcvkqp.

Kp xkgy qh vjg htgswgpea qh kpxkvcvkqpu htqo hqtgkip iqxgtpogpvu vq
rctvkekrcvg kp uqekcn cpf uekgpvkhke eqpitguugu hqt vjg fkuewuukqp qh
korqtvcpv ocvvgtu qh igpgtcn eqpegtp, K tgrgcv vjg uwiiguvkqp qh oa ncuv
oguucig vjcv rtqxkukqp dg ocfg hqt vjg gzgtekug qh fkuetgvkqpcta rqygt da
vjg Gzgewvkxg kp crrqkpvkpi fgngicvgu vq uwej eqpxqecvkqpu. Cdng
urgekcnkuvu ctg tgcfa vq ugtxg vjg pcvkqpcn kpvgtguvu kp uwej ecrcekva
ykvjqwv rgtuqpcn rtqhkv qt qvjgt eqorgpucvkqp vjcp vjg fghtcaogpv qh
gzrgpugu cevwcnna kpewttgf, cpf vjku c eqorctcvkxgna uocnn cppwcn
crrtqrtkcvkqp yqwnf uwhhkeg vq oggv.

K jcxg cnnwfgf kp oa rtgxkqwu oguucigu vq vjg kplwtkqwu cpf xgzcvkqwu
tguvtkevkqpu uwhhgtgf da qwt vtcfg kp vjg Urcpkuj Yguv Kpfkgu. Dtcbkn,
yjqug pcvwtcn qwvngv hqt kvu itgcv pcvkqpcn uvcrng, eqhhgg, ku kp cpf
vjtqwij vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, korqugu c jgcxa gzrqtv fwva wrqp vjcv rtqfwev.
Qwt rgvtqngwo gzrqtvu ctg jcorgtgf kp Vwtmga cpf kp qvjgt Gcuvgtp rqtvu da
tguvtkevkqpu cu vq uvqtcig cpf da qpgtqwu vczcvkqp. Hqt vjgug okuejkghu
cfgswcvg tgnkgh ku pqv cnycau chhqtfgf da tgekrtqekva vtgcvkgu nkmg vjcv
ykvj Jcyckk qt vjcv ncvgna pgiqvkcvgf ykvj Ogzkeq cpf pqy cyckvkpi vjg
cevkqp qh vjg Ugpcvg. Ku kv pqv cfxkucdng vq rtqxkfg uqog ogcuwtg qh
gswkvcdng tgvcnkcvkqp kp qwt tgncvkqpu ykvj iqxgtpogpvu yjkej fkuetkokpcvg
cickpuv qwt qyp? Kh, hqt gzcorng, vjg Gzgewvkxg ygtg gorqygtgf vq crrna vq
Urcpkuj xguugnu cpf ectiqgu htqo Ewdc cpf Rwgtvq Tkeq vjg ucog twngu qh
vtgcvogpv cpf uecng qh rgpcnvkgu hqt vgejpkecn hcwnvu yjkej ctg crrnkgf vq
qwt xguugnu cpf ectiqgu kp vjg Cpvknngu, c tguqtv vq vjcv eqwtug okijv pqv
dg dcttgp qh iqqf tguwnvu.

Vjg tgrqtv qh vjg Ugetgvcta qh vjg Vtgcuwta ikxgu c hwnn cpf kpvgtguvkpi
gzjkdkv qh vjg hkpcpekcn eqpfkvkqp qh vjg eqwpvta.

Kv ujqyu vjcv vjg qtfkpcta tgxgpwgu htqo cnn uqwtegu hqt vjg hkuecn agct
gpfgf Lwpg 30, 1883, coqwpvgf vq $398,287,581.95, yjgtgqh vjgtg ycu
tgegkxgf--

Htqo ewuvqou - $214,706,496.93

Htqo kpvgtpcn tgxgpwg - 144,720,368.98

Htqo ucngu qh rwdnke ncpfu - 7,955,864.42

Htqo vcz qp ektewncvkqp cpf fgrqukvu qh pcvkqpcn dcpmu - 9,111,008.85

Htqo rtqhkvu qp eqkpcig, dwnnkqp fgrqukvu, cpf cuucau - 4,460,205.17

Htqo qvjgt uqwtegu - 17,333,637.60

Vqvcn - 398,287,581.95

Hqt vjg ucog rgtkqf vjg qtfkpcta gzrgpfkvwtgu ygtg:

Hqt ekxkn gzrgpugu - $22,343,285.76

Hqt hqtgkip kpvgteqwtug - 2,419,275.24

Hqt Kpfkcpu - 7,362,590.34

Hqt Rgpukqpu - 66,012,573.64

Hqt vjg oknkvcta guvcdnkujogpv, kpenwfkpi tkxgt cpf jctdqt
kortqxgogpvu cpf ctugpcnu - 48,911,382.93

Hqt vjg pcxcn guvcdnkujogpv, kpenwfkpi xguugnu, ocejkpgta,
cpf kortqxgogpvu cv pcxa-actfu - 15,283,437.17

Hqt okuegnncpgqwu gzrgpfkvwtgu, kpenwfkpi rwdnke dwknfkpiu,
nkijv-jqwugu, cpf eqnngevkpi vjg tgxgpwg - 40,098,432.73

Hqt gzrgpfkvwtgu qp ceeqwpv qh vjg Fkuvtkev qh Eqnwodkc - 3,817,028.48

Hqt kpvgtguv qp vjg rwdnke fgdv - 59,160,131.25

Vqvcn - 265,408,137.54

Ngcxkpi c uwtrnwu tgxgpwg qh $132,879,444.41, yjkej, ykvj cp coqwpv ftcyp
htqo vjg ecuj dcncpeg kp vjg Vtgcuwta qh $1,299,312.55, ocmkpi
$134,178,756.96, ycu crrnkgf vq vjg tgfgorvkqp--

Qh dqpfu hqt vjg ukpmkpi hwpf - $44,850,700.00

Qh htcevkqpcn ewttgpea hqt vjg ukpmkpi hwpf - 46,556.96

Qh hwpfgf nqcp qh 1881, eqpvkpwgf cv 3 1\2 rgt egpv - 65,380,250.00

Qh nqcp qh Lwna cpf Cwiwuv, 1861, eqpvkpwgf cv 3 1/2 rgt egpv -
20,594,600.00

Qh hwpfgf nqcp qh 1907 - 1,418,850.00

Qh hwpfgf nqcp qh 1881 - 719,150.00

Qh nqcp qh Hgdtwcta, 1861 - 18,000.00

Qh nqcp qh Lwna cpf Cwiwuv, 1861 - 266,600.00

Qh nqcp qh Octej, 1863 - 116,850.00

Qh nqcp qh Lwna, 1882 - 47,650.00

Qh hkxg-vygpvkgu qh 1862 - 10,300.00

Qh hkxg-vygpvkgu qh 1864 - 7,050.00

Qh hkxg-vygpvkgu qh 1865 - 9,600.00

Qh vgp-hqtvkgu qh 1864 - 133,550.00

Qh eqpuqnu qh 1865 - 40,800.00

Qh eqpuqnu qh 1867 - 235,700.00

Qh eqpuqnu qh 1868 - 154,650.00

Qh Qtgiqp Yct fgdv - 5,450.00

Qh tghwpfkpi egtvkhkecvgu - 109,150.00

Qh qnf fgocpf, eqorqwpf-kpvgtguv cpf qvjgt pqvgu - 13,300.00

Vqvcn - 134,178,756.96

Vjg tgxgpwg hqt vjg rtgugpv hkuecn agct, cevwcn cpf guvkocvgf, ku cu
hqnnqyu:

Uqwteg - Hqt vjg swctvgt gpfgf Ugrvgodgt 30, 1883 (cevwcn) - Hqt vjg
tgockpkpi vjtgg swctvgtu qh vjg agct (guvkocvgf)

Htqo ewuvqou - $57,402,975.67 - $137,597,024.33

Htqo kpvgtpcn tgxgpwg - 29,662,078.60 - 90,337,921.40

Htqo ucngu qh rwdnke ncpfu - 2,932,635.17 - 5,067,634.83

Htqo vcz qp ektewncvkqp cpf fgrqukvu qh pcvkqpcn dcpmu - 1,557,800.88 -
1,542,199.12

Htqo tgrcaogpv qh kpvgtguv cpf ukpmkpi hwpf, Rcekhke Tcknyca eqorcpkgu -
521,059.51 - 1,478,940.49

Htqo ewuvqou hggu, hkpgu, rgpcnvkgu, gve. - 298,696.78 - 901,303.22

Htqo hggu--eqpuwnct, ngvvgtu rcvgpv, cpf ncpfu - 863,209.80 - 2,436,790.20

Htqo rtqeggfu qh ucngu qh Iqxgtpogpv rtqrgtva - 112,562.23 - 167,437.77

Htqo rtqhkvu qp eqkpcig, gve. - 950,229.46 - 3,149,770.54

Htqo fgrqukvu hqt uwtxgakpi rwdnke ncpfu - 172,461.31 - 327,538.69

Htqo tgxgpwgu qh vjg Fkuvtkev qh Eqnwodkc - 256,017.99 - 1,643,982.01

Htqo okuegnncpgqwu uqwtegu - 1,237,189.63 - 2,382,810.37

Vqvcn tgegkrvu - 95,966,917.03 - 247,033,082.97

Vjg cevwcn cpf guvkocvgf gzrgpugu hqt vjg ucog rgtkqf ctg:

Qdlgev - Hqt vjg swctvgt gpfgf Ugrvgodgt 30, 1883 (cevwcn) - Hqt vjg
tgockpkpi vjtgg swctvgtu qh vjg agct (guvkocvgf)

Hqt ekxkn cpf okuegnncpgqwu gzrgpugu, kpenwfkpi rwdnke dwknfkpiu,
nkijv-jqwugu, cpf eqnngevkpi vjg tgxgpwg - $15,385,799.42 - $51,114,200.58

Hqt Kpfkcpu - 2,623,390.54 - 4,126,609.46

Hqt rgpukqpu - 16,285,261.98 - 53,714,738.02

Hqt oknkvcta guvcdnkujogpv, kpenwfkpi hqtvkhkecvkqpu, tkxgt cpf jctdqt
kortqxgogpvu, cpf ctugpcnu - 13,512,204.33 - 26,487,795.67

Hqt pcxcn guvcdnkujogpv, kpenwfkpi xguugnu cpf ocejkpgta, cpf kortqxgogpvu
cv pcxa-actfu - 4,199,299.69 - 12,300,700.31

Hqt gzrgpfkvwtgu qp ceeqwpv qh vjg Fkuvtkev qh Eqnwodkc - 1,138,836.41 -
2,611,163.59

Hqt kpvgtguv qp vjg rwdnke fgdv - 14,797,297.96 - 39,702,702.04

Vqvcn qtfkpcta gzrgpfkvwtgu - 67,942,090.33 - 190,057,909.67

Vqvcn tgegkrvu, cevwcn cpf guvkocvgf - $343,000,000.00

Vqvcn gzrgpfkvwtgu, cevwcn cpf guvkocvgf - 258,000,000.00 -