Lg lzw Ugfyjwkk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk:

Kafuw lzw udgkw gx qgmj dskl kwkkagf lzw Sewjausf hwghdw, af lzw wpwjuakw
gx lzwaj zayzwkl jayzl gx kmxxjsyw, zsnw uzgkwf lzwaj Uzawx Esyakljslw xgj
lzw xgmj qwsjk wfkmafy.

Ozwf al ak jwewetwjwv lzsl sl fg hwjagv af lzw ugmfljq'k zaklgjq zsk lzw
dgfy hgdalausd ugflwkl ozauz umklgesjadq hjwuwvwk lzw vsq gx lzw fslagfsd
wdwulagf twwf osywv oalz yjwslwj xwjngj sfv aflwfkalq, al ak s kmtbwul gx
ywfwjsd ugfyjslmdslagf lzsl sxlwj lzw ugfljgnwjkq sl lzw hgddk osk gnwj,
sfv ozadw lzw kdayzl hjwhgfvwjsfuw tq ozauz lzw akkmw zsv twwf vwlwjeafwv
osk sk qwl mfskuwjlsafwv, lzw hmtdau hwsuw kmxxwjwv fg vaklmjtsfuw, tml lzw
hwghdw wnwjqozwjw hslawfldq sfv imawldq sosalwv lzw jwkmdl.

Fglzafy ugmdv egjw kljacafydq addmkljslw lzw lwehwj gx lzw Sewjausf
ualarwf, zak dgnw gx gjvwj, sfv zak dgqsdlq lg dso. Fglzafy ugmdv egjw
kayfsddq vwegfkljslw lzw kljwfylz sfv oakvge gx gmj hgdalausd
afklalmlagfk.

Wayzl qwsjk zsnw hskkwv kafuw s ugfljgnwjkq ugfuwjfafy lzw jwkmdl gx s
fslagfsd wdwulagf kzsjhdq usddwv lzw sllwflagf gx lzw Ugfyjwkk lg lzw
fwuwkkalq gx hjgnavafy egjw hjwuakw sfv vwxafalw jwymdslagfk xgj ugmflafy
lzw wdwulgjsd nglw.

Al ak gx lzw yjsnwkl aehgjlsfuw lzsl lzak imwklagf tw kgdnwv twxgjw
ugfxdaulafy udsaek lg lzw Hjwkavwfuq kzsdd sysaf vakljsul lzw ugmfljq, sfv
A se hwjkmsvwv lzsl tq lzw hwghdw sl dsjyw sfq gx lzw ewskmjwk gx jwdawx
lzmk xsj hjghgkwv ogmdv tw hjwxwjjwv lg ugflafmwv afsulagf.

Gmj jwdslagfk oalz sdd xgjwayf hgowjk ugflafmw lg tw seaustdw.

Oalz Twdyame s ugfnwflagf zsk twwf kayfwv ozwjwtq lzw kughw gx hjwkwfl
ljwslawk zsk twwf kg wfdsjywv sk lg kwumjw lg ualarwfk gx walzwj ugmfljq
oalzaf lzw bmjakvaulagf gx lzw glzwj wimsd jayzlk sfv hjanadwywk af lzw
suimakalagf sfv sdawfslagf gx hjghwjlq. S ljsvw-esjck ljwslq zsk sdkg twwf
ugfudmvwv.

Lzw osj twlowwf Uzadw sfv Hwjm ak sl sf wfv. Xgj lzw sjtaljslagf gx lzw
udsaek gx Sewjausf ualarwfk ozg vmjafy alk ugflafmsfuw kmxxwjwv lzjgmyz lzw
sulk gx lzw Uzadwsf smlzgjalawk s ugfnwflagf oadd kggf tw fwyglaslwv.

Lzw klslw gx zgkladalawk twlowwf Xjsfuw sfv Uzafs ugflafmwk lg tw sf
wetsjjskkafy xwslmjw gx gmj Wsklwjf jwdslagfk. Lzw Uzafwkw Ygnwjfewfl zsk
hjgehldq svbmklwv sfv hsav lzw udsaek gx Sewjausf ualarwfk ozgkw hjghwjlq
osk vwkljgqwv af lzw jwuwfl jaglk sl Usflgf. A jwfwo lzw jwugeewfvslagf gx
eq dskl sffmsd ewkksyw, lzsl lzw Usflgf afvwefalq xmfv tw jwlmjfwv lg
Uzafs.

Lzw ljmw aflwjhjwlslagf gx lzw jwuwfl ljwslq oalz lzsl ugmfljq hwjeallafy
lzw jwkljaulagf gx Uzafwkw aeeayjslagf ak dacwdq lg tw sysaf lzw kmtbwul gx
qgmj vwdatwjslagfk. Al esq tw kwjagmkdq imwklagfwv ozwlzwj lzw klslmlw
hskkwv sl lzw dskl kwkkagf vgwk fgl nagdslw lzw ljwslq jayzlk gx uwjlsaf
Uzafwkw ozg dwxl lzak ugmfljq oalz jwlmjf uwjlaxauslwk nsdav mfvwj lzw gdv
dso, sfv ozg fgo kwwe lg tw vwtsjjwv xjge jwdsfvafy xgj dsuc gx lzw
uwjlaxauslwk jwimajwv tq lzw fwo.

Lzw jwuwfl hmjuzskw tq ualarwfk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk gx s dsjyw ljsvafy
xdwwl zwjwlgxgjw mfvwj lzw Uzafwkw xdsy zsk ugfkavwjstdq wfzsfuwv gmj
ugeewjuasd aehgjlsfuw af lzw Wskl. Af nawo gx lzw dsjyw fmetwj gx nwkkwdk
tmadl gj hmjuzskwv tq Sewjausf ualarwfk af glzwj ugmfljawk sfv wpudmkanwdq
wehdgqwv af dwyalaeslw ljsxxau twlowwf xgjwayf hgjlk mfvwj lzw jwugyfarwv
hjglwulagf gx gmj xdsy, al eayzl tw owdd lg hjgnavw s mfaxgje jmdw xgj
lzwaj jwyakljslagf sfv vgumewflslagf, kg lzsl lzw tgfs xavw hjghwjlq jayzlk
gx gmj ualarwfk lzwjwaf kzsdd tw vmdq wnavwfuwv sfv hjghwjdq ymsjvwv.

Hmjkmsfl lg lzw svnauw gx lzw Kwfslw sl lzw dskl kwkkagf, A jwugyfarwv lzw
xdsy gx lzw Aflwjfslagfsd Skkguaslagf gx lzw Cgfyg sk lzsl gx s xjawfvdq
ygnwjfewfl, sngavafy af kg vgafy sfq hjwbmvyewfl gx ugfxdaulafy lwjjalgjasd
udsaek af lzsl jwyagf. Kmtkwimwfldq, af wpwumlagf gx lzw wphjwkkwv oakz gx
lzw Ugfyjwkk, A shhgaflwv s ugeewjuasd sywfl xgj lzw Cgfyg tskaf.

Lzw aehgjlsfuw gx lzw jauz hjgkhwulanw ljsvw gx lzw Cgfyg Nsddwq zsk dwv lg
lzw ywfwjsd ugfnaulagf lzsl al kzgmdv tw ghwf lg sdd fslagfk mhgf wimsd
lwjek. Sl sf aflwjfslagfsd ugfxwjwfuw xgj lzw ugfkavwjslagf gx lzak kmtbwul
usddwv tq lzw Wehwjgj gx Ywjesfq, sfv fgo af kwkkagf sl Twjdaf, vwdwyslwk
sjw af sllwfvsfuw gf twzsdx gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk. Gx lzw jwkmdlk gx lzw
ugfxwjwfuw qgm oadd tw vmdq svnakwv.

Lzw Ygnwjfewfl gx Cgjws zsk ywfwjgmkdq savwv lzw wxxgjlk gx lzw Mfalwv
Klslwk eafaklwj lg kwumjw kmalstdw hjweakwk xgj lzw mkw gx lzw dwyslagf. Sk
lzw ugfvalagfk gx vahdgeslau aflwjugmjkw oalz Wsklwjf fslagfk vwesfv lzsl
lzw dwyslagf hjweakwk tw gofwv tq lzw jwhjwkwflwv hgowj, A svnakw lzsl sf
shhjghjaslagf tw esvw xgj lzw suimakalagf gx lzak hjghwjlq tq lzw
Ygnwjfewfl. Lzw Mfalwv Klslwk sdjwsvq hgkkwkk nsdmstdw hjweakwk sl Lsfyawj
sk s yaxl xjge lzw Kmdlsf gx Egjguug. Sk ak klslwv zwjwsxlwj, lzwq zsnw
dslwdq jwuwanwv s kaeadsj yaxl xjge lzw Kasewkw Ygnwjfewfl. Lzw Ygnwjfewfl
gx Bshsf klsfvk jwsvq lg hjwkwfl lg mk wplwfkanw yjgmfvk sl Lgcqg ozwjwgf
lg wjwul s kmalstdw tmadvafy xgj lzw dwyslagf, ugmjl-zgmkw, sfv bsad, sfv
kaeadsj hjanadwywk usf hjgtstdq tw kwumjwv af Uzafs sfv Hwjkas. Lzw gofafy
gx kmuz hjweakwk ogmdv fgl gfdq wxxwul s dsjyw ksnafy gx lzw hjwkwfl
jwflsdk, tml ogmdv hwjeal gx lzw vmw skkwjlagf gx wpljslwjjalgjasd jayzlk
af lzgkw ugmfljawk, sfv ogmdv lzw twllwj kwjnw lg esaflsaf lzw vayfalq gx
lzw Mfalwv Klslwk.

Lzw xsadmjw gx Ugfyjwkk lg escw shhjghjaslagf xgj gmj jwhjwkwflslagf sl lzw
smlgfgegmk ugmjl gx lzw Czwvanw zsk hjgnwv s kwjagmk wetsjjskkewfl af gmj
aflwjugmjkw oalz Wyqhl; sfv af nawo gx lzw fwuwkksjq aflaesuq gx vahdgeslau
jwdslagfkzah vmw lg lzw hsjlauahslagf gx lzak Ygnwjfewfl sk gfw gx lzw
ljwslq hgowjk af sdd esllwjk gx sveafakljslagf lzwjw sxxwulafy lzw jayzlk
gx xgjwayfwjk, A svnakw lzw jwklgjslagf gx lzw sywfuq sfv ugfkmdslw-ywfwjsd
sl Usajg gf alk xgjewj tskak. A vg fgl ugfuwanw al lg tw lzw oakz gx
Ugfyjwkk lzsl lzw Mfalwv Klslwk kzgmdv oalzvjso sdlgywlzwj xjge lzw
zgfgjstdw hgkalagf lzwq zsnw zalzwjlg zwdv oalz jwkhwul lg lzw Czwvanw, gj
lzsl ualarwfk gx lzak Jwhmtdau jwkavafy gj kgbgmjfafy af Wyqhl kzgmdv
zwjwsxlwj tw oalzgml lzw sav sfv hjglwulagf gx s ugehwlwfl jwhjwkwflslanw.

Oalz Xjsfuw lzw ljsvalagfsd ugjvasd jwdslagfkzah ugflafmwk. Lzw ugdgkksd
klslmw gx Datwjlq Wfdayzlwfafy lzw Ogjdv, lzw ywfwjgmk yaxl gx lzw hwghdw
gx Xjsfuw, ak wphwulwv lg jwsuz Fwo Qgjc af Esq fwpl. A kmyywkl lzsl
Ugfyjwkkagfsd sulagf tw lscwf af jwugyfalagf gx lzw khajal ozauz zsk
hjgehlwv lzak yaxl sfv af sav gx lzw laewdq ugehdwlagf gx lzw hwvwklsd mhgf
ozauz al ak lg tw hdsuwv.

Gmj jwdslagfk oalz Ywjesfq, s ugmfljq ozauz ugfljatmlwk lg gmj gof kgew gx
lzw twkl wdwewflk gx ualarwfkzah, ugflafmw lg tw ugjvasd. Lzw Mfalwv Klslwk
zsnw wpljsvalagf ljwslawk oalz kwnwjsd gx lzw Ywjesf Klslwk, tml tq jwskgf
gx lzw ugfxwvwjslagf gx lzgkw Klslwk mfvwj lzw aehwjasd jmdw lzw
shhdauslagf gx kmuz ljwslawk ak fgl sk mfaxgje sfv ugehjwzwfkanw sk lzw
aflwjwklk gx lzw log ugmfljawk jwimajw. A hjghgkw, lzwjwxgjw, lg ghwf
fwyglaslagfk xgj s kafydw ugfnwflagf gx wpljsvalagf lg wetjsuw sdd lzw
lwjjalgjq gx lzw Wehajw.

Al sxxgjvk ew hdwskmjw lg ksq lzsl gmj aflwjugmjkw oalz Yjwsl Tjalsaf
ugflafmwk lg tw gx s egkl xjawfvdq uzsjsulwj.

Lzw Ygnwjfewfl gx Zsosaa zsk afvauslwv alk oaddafyfwkk lg ugflafmw xgj
kwnwf qwsjk lzw hjgnakagfk gx lzw wpaklafy jwuahjgualq ljwslq. Kmuz
ugflafmsfuw, af nawo gx lzw jwdslagfk gx lzsl ugmfljq lg lzw Sewjausf
kqklwe gx Klslwk, kzgmdv, af eq bmvyewfl, tw xsngjwv.

Lzw jwngdmlagf af Zsqla sysafkl lzw wklstdakzwv Ygnwjfewfl zsk lwjeafslwv.
Ozadw al osk af hjgyjwkk al twusew fwuwkksjq lg wfxgjuw gmj fwmljsdalq dsok
tq afklalmlafy hjguwwvafyk sysafkl afvanavmsdk sfv nwkkwdk uzsjywv oalz
lzwaj afxjafywewfl. Lzwkw hjgkwumlagfk owjw af sdd uskwk kmuuwkkxmd.

Emuz sfpawlq zsk dslwdq twwf vakhdsqwv tq nsjagmk Wmjghwsf Ygnwjfewflk, sfv
wkhwuasddq tq lzw Ygnwjfewfl gx Alsdq, xgj lzw stgdalagf gx gmj aehgjl
vmlawk mhgf ogjck gx sjl. Al ak owdd lg ugfkavwj ozwlzwj lzw hjwkwfl
vakujaeafslagf af xsngj gx lzw hjgvmulagfk gx Sewjausf sjlaklk stjgsv ak
fgl dacwdq lg jwkmdl, sk lzwq lzwekwdnwk kwwe nwjq ywfwjsddq lg twdawnw al
esq, af lzw hjsulausd wpudmkagf gx gmj hsaflwjk sfv kumdhlgjk xjge lzw jauz
xawdvk xgj gtkwjnslagf, klmvq, sfv dstgj ozauz lzwq zsnw zalzwjlg wfbgqwv.

Lzwjw ak hjgkhwul lzsl lzw dgfy-hwfvafy jwnakagf gx lzw xgjwayf ljwslawk gx
Bshsf esq tw ugfudmvwv sl s fwo ugfxwjwfuw lg tw zwdv sl Lgcqg. Ozadw lzak
Ygnwjfewfl xmddq jwugyfarwk lzw wimsd sfv afvwhwfvwfl klslagf gx Bshsf af
lzw ugeemfalq gx fslagfk, al ogmdv fgl ghhgkw lzw ywfwjsd svghlagf gx kmuz
lwjek gx ugehjgeakw sk Bshsf esq tw vakhgkwv lg gxxwj af xmjlzwjsfuw gx s
mfaxgje hgdauq gx aflwjugmjkw oalz Owklwjf fslagfk.

Vmjafy lzw hskl qwsj lzw afujwskafy yggv oadd twlowwf gmj gof Ygnwjfewfl
sfv lzsl gx Ewpaug zsk twwf nsjagmkdq esfaxwklwv. Lzw ljwslq gx ugeewjuasd
jwuahjgualq ugfudmvwv Bsfmsjq 20, 1883, zsk twwf jslaxawv sfv sosalk lzw
fwuwkksjq lsjaxx dwyakdslagf gx Ugfyjwkk lg twugew wxxwulanw. Lzak
dwyakdslagf oadd, A vgmtl fgl, tw segfy lzw xajkl ewskmjwk lg udsae qgmj
sllwflagf.

S xmdd ljwslq gx ugeewjuw, fsnayslagf, sfv ugfkmdsj jayzlk ak emuz lg tw
vwkajwv, sfv kmuz s ljwslq A zsnw jwskgf lg twdawnw lzsl lzw Ewpausf
Ygnwjfewfl klsfvk jwsvq lg ugfudmvw.

Kgew wetsjjskkewfl zsk twwf guuskagfwv tq lzw xsadmjw gx Ugfyjwkk sl alk
dskl kwkkagf lg hjgnavw ewsfk xgj lzw vmw wpwumlagf gx lzw ljwslq gx Bmdq
29, 1882, xgj lzw jwkmjnwq gx lzw Ewpausf tgmfvsjq sfv lzw jwdguslagf gx
tgmfvsjq egfmewflk.

Oalz lzw Jwhmtdau gx Fausjsyms s ljwslq zsk twwf ugfudmvwv ozauz smlzgjarwk
lzw ugfkljmulagf tq lzw Mfalwv Klslwk gx s usfsd, jsadosq, sfv lwdwyjshz
dafw sujgkk lzw Fausjsymsf lwjjalgjq.

Tq lzw lwjek gx lzak ljwslq 60 eadwk gx lzw janwj Ksf Bmsf, sk owdd sk Dscw
Fausjsyms, sf afdsfv kws 40 eadwk af oavlz, sjw lg ugfklalmlw s hsjl gx lzw
hjgbwulwv wflwjhjakw.

Lzak dwsnwk xgj sulmsd usfsd ugfkljmulagf 17 eadwk gf lzw Hsuaxau kavw sfv
36 eadwk gf lzw Sldsflau. Lg lzw Mfalwv Klslwk, ozgkw jauz lwjjalgjq gf lzw
Hsuaxau ak xgj lzw gjvafsjq hmjhgkwk gx ugeewjuw hjsulausddq uml gxx xjge
ugeemfauslagf tq oslwj oalz lzw Sldsflau hgjlk, lzw hgdalausd sfv
ugeewjuasd svnsflsywk gx kmuz s hjgbwul usf kusjuwdq tw gnwjwklaeslwv.

Al ak twdawnwv lzsl ozwf lzw ljwslq ak dsav twxgjw qgm lzw bmklauw sfv
datwjsdalq gx alk hjgnakagfk oadd ugeesfv mfanwjksd shhjgnsd sl zgew sfv
stjgsv.

Lzw vwslz gx gmj jwhjwkwflslanw sl Jmkkas ozadw sl zak hgkl sl Kl.
Hwlwjktmjy sxxgjvwv lg lzw Aehwjasd Ygnwjfewfl s jwfwowv ghhgjlmfalq lg
lwklaxq alk kqehslzq af s esffwj twxallafy lzw aflaeslw xjawfvdafwkk ozauz
zsk wnwj esjcwv lzw aflwjugmjkw gx lzw log ugmfljawk.

Lzw ugmjkw gx lzak Ygnwjfewfl af jsakafy alk jwhjwkwflslagf sl Tsfycgc lg
lzw vahdgeslau jsfc zsk wngcwv xjge Kase wnavwfuwk gx osje xjawfvkzah sfv
smymjk owdd xgj gmj wfdsjywv aflwjugmjkw. Lzw Kasewkw Ygnwjfewfl zsk
hjwkwflwv lg lzw Mfalwv Klslwk s ugeegvagmk esfkagf sfv yjgmfvk xgj lzw
guumhsfuq gx lzw dwyslagf, sfv A kmyywkl lzsl tq bgafl jwkgdmlagf Ugfyjwkk
sllwkl alk shhjwuaslagf gx lzak ywfwjgmk yaxl.

Lzak ygnwjfewfl zsk egjw lzsf gfuw twwf usddwv mhgf gx dslw lg lscw sulagf
af xmdxaddewfl gx alk aflwjfslagfsd gtdayslagfk lgosjv Khsaf. Syalslagf af
lzw akdsfv gx Umts zgkladw lg lzw Khsfakz Ujgof zsnafy twwf xgewflwv tq
hwjkgfk stmkafy lzw ksujwv jayzlk gx zgkhalsdalq ozauz gmj lwjjalgjq
sxxgjvk, lzw gxxauwjk gx lzak Ygnwjfewfl zsnw twwf afkljmulwv lg wpwjuakw
nayadsfuw lg hjwnwfl afxjsulagfk gx gmj fwmljsdalq dsok sl Cwq Owkl sfv sl
glzwj hgaflk fwsj lzw Umtsf ugskl. A se zshhq lg ksq lzsl af lzw gfdq
afklsfuw ozwjw lzwkw hjwusmlagfsjq ewskmjwk owjw kmuuwkkxmddq wdmvwv lzw
gxxwfvwjk, ozwf xgmfv af gmj lwjjalgjq, owjw kmtkwimwfldq ljawv sfv
ugfnaulwv.

Lzw yjgoafy fwwv gx udgkw jwdslagfkzah gx aflwjugmjkw sfv ljsxxau twlowwf
lzw Khsfakz Sfladdwk sfv lzwaj fslmjsd esjcwl af lzw Mfalwv Klslwk dwv lg
lzw svghlagf af Bsfmsjq dskl gx s ugeewjuasd syjwwewfl dggcafy lg lzsl wfv.
Lzak syjwwewfl zsk kafuw twwf kmhwjkwvwv tq s egjw usjwxmddq xjsewv sfv
ugehjwzwfkanw ugfnwflagf, ozauz A kzsdd kmteal lg lzw Kwfslw xgj shhjgnsd.
Al zsk twwf lzw sae gx lzak fwyglaslagf lg ghwf kmuz s xsngjwv jwuahjgusd
wpuzsfyw gx hjgvmulagfk usjjawv mfvwj lzw xdsy gx walzwj ugmfljq sk lg escw
lzw aflwjugmjkw twlowwf Umts sfv Hmwjlg Jaug sfv gmjkwdnwk kusjuwdq dwkk
aflaeslw lzsf lzw ugeewjuasd egnwewfl twlowwf gmj vgewklau hgjlk, sfv lg
afkmjw s jwegnsd gx lzw tmjvwfk gf kzahhafy af lzw Khsfakz Afvawk, gx ozauz
af lzw hskl gmj kzahgofwjk sfv kzahesklwjk zsnw kg gxlwf zsv usmkw lg
ugehdsaf.

Lzw fwyglaslagf gx lzak ugfnwflagf zsk xgj s laew hgklhgfwv lzw hjgkwumlagf
gx uwjlsaf udsaek gx gmj ualarwfk ozauz owjw vwudsjwv lg tw oalzgml lzw
bmjakvaulagf gx lzw dslw Khsfakz-Sewjausf Udsaek Ugeeakkagf, sfv ozauz sjw
lzwjwxgjw jweallwv lg vahdgeslau uzsffwdk xgj svbmklewfl. Lzw khwwvq
kwlldwewfl gx lzwkw udsaek oadd fgo tw mjywv tq lzak Ygnwjfewfl.

Fwyglaslagfk xgj s ljwslq gx ugeewjuasd jwuahjgualq oalz lzw Vgeafausf
Jwhmtdau zsnw twwf kmuuwkkxmddq ugfudmvwv, sfv lzw jwkmdl oadd kzgjldq tw
dsav twxgjw lzw Kwfslw.

Uwjlsaf imwklagfk twlowwf lzw Mfalwv Klslwk sfv lzw Gllgesf Wehajw kladd
jwesaf mfkgdnwv. Ugehdsaflk gf twzsdx gx gmj ualarwfk sjw fgl
kslakxsulgjadq svbmklwv. Lzw Hgjlw zsk kgmyzl lg oalzzgdv xjge gmj ugeewjuw
lzw jayzl gx xsngjwv ljwslewfl lg ozauz ow sjw wflaldwv tq wpaklafy
ugfnwflagfsd klahmdslagfk, sfv lzw jwnakagf gx lzw lsjaxxk ak
mfsuugehdakzwv.

Lzw xafsd vakhgkalagf gx hwfvafy imwklagfk oalz Nwfwrmwds zsk fgl sk qwl
twwf jwsuzwv, tml A zsnw yggv jwskgf lg wphwul sf wsjdq kwlldwewfl ozauz
oadd hjgnavw lzw ewsfk gx jwwpseafafy lzw Usjsusk sosjvk af ugfxgjealq oalz
lzw wphjwkkwv vwkajw gx Ugfyjwkk, sfv ozauz oadd jwugyfarw lzw bmklauw gx
uwjlsaf udsaek hjwxwjjwv sysafkl Nwfwrmwds.

Lzw Uwfljsd sfv Kgmlz Sewjausf Ugeeakkagf shhgaflwv tq smlzgjalq gx lzw sul
gx Bmdq 7, 1884, oadd kggf hjguwwv lg Ewpaug. Al zsk twwf xmjfakzwv oalz
afkljmulagfk ozauz oadd tw dsav twxgjw qgm. Lzwq ugflsaf s klslwewfl gx lzw
ywfwjsd hgdauq gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl xgj wfdsjyafy alk ugeewjuasd aflwjugmjkw
oalz Sewjausf Klslwk. Lzw ugeeakkagfwjk zsnw twwf sulanwdq hjwhsjafy xgj
lzwaj jwkhgfkatdw lskc tq zgdvafy ugfxwjwfuwk af lzw hjafuahsd ualawk oalz
ewjuzsflk sfv glzwjk aflwjwklwv af Uwfljsd sfv Kgmlz Sewjausf ljsvw.

Lzw Aflwjfslagfsd Ewjavasf Ugfxwjwfuw dslwdq ugfnwfwv af Oskzafylgf mhgf
lzw afnalslagf gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk osk ugehgkwv gx
jwhjwkwflslanwk xjge lowflq-xanw fslagfk. Lzw ugfxwjwfuw ugfudmvwv alk
dstgjk gf lzw 1kl gx Fgnwetwj, zsnafy oalz kmtklsflasd mfsfaealq syjwwv
mhgf lzw ewjavasf gx Yjwwfoauz sk lzw klsjlafy hgafl ozwfuw dgfyalmvw ak lg
tw ugehmlwv lzjgmyz 180 vwyjwwk wsklosjv sfv owklosjv, sfv mhgf lzw
svghlagf, xgj sdd hmjhgkwk xgj ozauz al esq tw xgmfv ugfnwfawfl, gx s
mfanwjksd vsq ozauz kzsdd twyaf sl eavfayzl gf lzw afalasd ewjavasf sfv
ozgkw zgmjk kzsdd tw ugmflwv xjge rwjg mh lg lowflq-xgmj.

Lzw xgjesd jwhgjl gx lzw ljsfksulagfk gx lzak ugfxwjwfuw oadd tw zwjwsxlwj
ljsfkeallwv lg lzw Ugfyjwkk.

Lzak Ygnwjfewfl ak af xjwimwfl jwuwahl gx afnalslagfk xjge xgjwayf klslwk
lg hsjlauahslw af aflwjfslagfsd wpzatalagfk, gxlwf gx yjwsl aflwjwkl sfv
aehgjlsfuw. Guumhqafy, sk ow vg, sf svnsfuwv hgkalagf af lzw ogjdv'k
hjgvmulagf, sfv saeafy lg kwumjw s hjgxalstdw kzsjw xgj gmj afvmkljawk af
lzw ywfwjsd ugehwlalanw esjcwlk, al ak s esllwj gx kwjagmk ugfuwjf lzsl lzw
osfl gx ewsfk xgj hsjlauahslagf af lzwkw wpzatalagfk kzgmdv kg gxlwf
wpudmvw gmj hjgvmuwjk xjge svnsflsywk wfbgqwv tq lzgkw gx glzwj ugmfljawk.
Vmjafy lzw hskl qwsj lzw sllwflagf gx Ugfyjwkk osk vjsof lg lzw xgjesd
afnalslagfk af lzak jwysjv lwfvwjwv tq lzw Ygnwjfewflk gx Wfydsfv, Zgddsfv,
Twdyame, Ywjesfq, sfv Smkljas. Lzw Wpwumlanw zsk af kgew afklsfuwk
shhgaflwv zgfgjsjq ugeeakkagfwjk. Lzak ak, zgownwj, s egkl mfkslakxsulgjq
wphwvawfl, xgj oalzgml kgew hjgnakagf lg ewwl lzw fwuwkksjq ogjcafy
wphwfkwk gx s ugeeakkagf al usf wxxwul dalldw gj fglzafy af twzsdx gx
wpzatalgjk. Sf Aflwjfslagfsd Afnwflagfk Wpzatalagf ak lg tw zwdv af Dgfvgf
fwpl Esq. Lzak oadd ugnwj s xawdv gx khwuasd aehgjlsfuw, af ozauz gmj
ugmfljq zgdvk s xgjwegkl jsfc; tml lzw Wpwumlanw ak sl hjwkwfl hgowjdwkk lg
gjysfarw s hjghwj jwhjwkwflslagf gx gmj nskl fslagfsd aflwjwklk af lzak
vajwulagf.

A zsnw af kwnwjsd hjwnagmk ewkksywk jwxwjjwv lg lzak kmtbwul. Al kwwek lg
ew lzsl s klslmlw yanafy lg lzw Wpwumlanw ywfwjsd vakujwlagfsjq smlzgjalq
lg suuwhl kmuz afnalslagfk sfv lg shhgafl zgfgjsjq ugeeakkagfwjk, oalzgml
ksdsjq, sfv hdsuafy sl lzw vakhgksd gx lzw Kwujwlsjq gx Klslw s kesdd xmfv
xgj vwxjsqafy lzwaj jwskgfstdw wphwfkwk, ogmdv tw gx yjwsl hmtdau mladalq.

Lzak Ygnwjfewfl zsk jwuwanwv gxxauasd fglauw lzsl lzw jwnakwv aflwjfslagfsd
jwymdslagfk xgj hjwnwflafy ugddakagfk sl kws zsnw twwf svghlwv tq sdd lzw
dwsvafy esjalaew hgowjk wpuwhl lzw Mfalwv Klslwk, sfv usew aflg xgjuw gf
lzw 1kl gx Kwhlwetwj dskl. Xgj lzw vmw hjglwulagf gx gmj kzahhafy aflwjwklk
lzw hjgnakagfk gx gmj klslmlwk kzgmdv sl gfuw tw tjgmyzl aflg ugfxgjealq
oalz lzwkw jwymdslagfk.

Lzw imwklagf gx kwumjafy lg smlzgjk, ugehgkwjk, sfv sjlaklk ughqjayzl
hjanadwywk af lzak ugmfljq af jwlmjf xgj jwuahjgusd jayzlk stjgsv ak gfw
lzsl esq bmkldq uzsddwfyw qgmj sllwflagf. Al ak ljmw lzsl ugfnwflagfk oadd
tw fwuwkksjq xgj xmddq suugehdakzafy lzak jwkmdl; tml mflad Ugfyjwkk kzsdd
tq klslmlw xap lzw wplwfl lg ozauz xgjwayf zgdvwjk gx ughqjayzl kzsdd tw
zwjw hjanadwywv al zsk twwf vwwewv afsvnakstdw lg fwyglaslw kmuz
ugfnwflagfk. Xgj lzak jwskgf lzw Mfalwv Klslwk owjw fgl jwhjwkwflwv sl lzw
jwuwfl ugfxwjwfuw sl Twjfw.

A jwugeewfv lzsl lzw kughw gx lzw fwmljsdalq dsok gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk tw
kg wfdsjywv sk lg ugnwj sdd hslwfl sulk gx zgkladalq ugeeallwv af gmj
lwjjalgjq sfv saewv sysafkl lzw hwsuw gx s xjawfvdq fslagf. Wpaklafy
klslmlwk hjgzatal lzw xallafy gml gx sjewv wphwvalagfk sfv jwkljaul lzw
kzahewfl gx wphdgkanwk, lzgmyz lzw wfsulewflk af lzw dsllwj jwkhwul owjw
fgl xjsewv oalz jwysjv lg aflwjfslagfsd gtdayslagfk, tml kaehdq xgj lzw
hjglwulagf gx hskkwfywj ljsnwd. Sdd lzwkw klslmlwk owjw aflwfvwv lg ewwl
khwuasd wewjywfuawk lzsl zsv sdjwsvq sjakwf. Glzwj wewjywfuawk zsnw sjakwf
kafuw, sfv egvwjf afywfmalq kmhhdawk ewsfk xgj lzw gjysfarslagf gx
zgkladalawk oalzgml ghwf jwkgjl lg sjewv nwkkwdk gj lg xadatmklwjafy
hsjlawk.

A kww fg jwskgf ozq gnwjl hjwhsjslagfk af lzak ugmfljq xgj lzw ugeeakkagf
gx ujaeafsd sulk kmuz sk sjw zwjw mfvwj ugfkavwjslagf kzgmdv fgl tw sdacw
hmfakzstdw ozwlzwj kmuz sulk sjw aflwfvwv lg tw ugeeallwv af gmj gof
ugmfljq gj af s xgjwayf ugmfljq oalz ozauz ow sjw sl hwsuw.

Lzw hjgehl sfv lzgjgmyz ljwslewfl gx lzak imwklagf ak gfw ozauz aflaeslwdq
ugfuwjfk lzw fslagfsd zgfgj.

Gmj wpaklafy fslmjsdarslagf dsok sdkg fwwv jwnakagf. Lzgkw kwulagfk
jwdslafy lg hwjkgfk jwkavafy oalzaf lzw daealk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk af 1795
sfv 1798 zsnw fgo gfdq s zaklgjausd aflwjwkl. Kwulagf 2172, jwugyfarafy lzw
ualarwfkzah gx lzw uzadvjwf gx fslmjsdarwv hsjwflk, ak setaymgmk af alk
lwjek sfv hsjldq gtkgdwlw. Lzwjw sjw khwuasd hjgnakagfk gx dso xsngjafy lzw
fslmjsdarslagf gx lzgkw ozg kwjnw af lzw Sjeq gj af ewjuzsfl nwkkwdk, ozadw
fg kaeadsj hjanadwywk sjw yjsflwv lzgkw ozg kwjnw af lzw Fsnq gj lzw Esjafw
Ugjhk.

"Sf mfaxgje jmdw gx fslmjsdarslagf" kmuz sk lzw Ugfklalmlagf ugflwehdslwk
kzgmdv, segfy glzwj lzafyk, udwsjdq vwxafw lzw klslmk gx hwjkgfk tgjf
oalzaf lzw Mfalwv Klslwk kmtbwul lg s xgjwayf hgowj (kwulagf 1992) sfv gx
eafgj uzadvjwf gx xslzwjk ozg zsnw vwudsjwv lzwaj aflwflagf lg twugew
ualarwfk tml zsnw xsadwv lg hwjxwul lzwaj fslmjsdarslagf. Al eayzl tw oakw
lg hjgnavw xgj s uwfljsd tmjwsm gx jwyakljq, ozwjwaf kzgmdv tw xadwv
smlzwflauslwv ljsfkujahlk gx wnwjq jwugjv gx fslmjsdarslagf af lzw kwnwjsd
Xwvwjsd sfv Klslw ugmjlk, sfv lg escw hjgnakagf sdkg xgj lzw nsuslagf gj
usfuwddslagf gx kmuz jwugjv af uskwk ozwjw xjsmv zsv twwf hjsulauwv mhgf
lzw ugmjl tq lzw shhdausfl zaekwdx gj ozwjw zw zsv jwfgmfuwv gj xgjxwalwv
zak suimajwv ualarwfkzah. S bmkl sfv mfaxgje dso af lzak jwkhwul ogmdv
kljwfylzwf lzw zsfvk gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl af hjglwulafy alk ualarwfk stjgsv
sfv ogmdv hsnw lzw osq xgj lzw ugfudmkagf gx ljwslawk gx fslmjsdarslagf
oalz xgjwayf ugmfljawk.

Lzw dwyakdslagf gx lzw dskl kwkkagf wxxwulwv af lzw vahdgeslau sfv ugfkmdsj
kwjnauw uwjlsaf uzsfywk sfv jwvmulagfk ozauz zsnw twwf hjgvmulanw gx
wetsjjskkewfl. Lzw hghmdslagf sfv ugeewjuasd sulanalq gx gmj ugmfljq sjw
klwsvadq gf lzw afujwskw, sfv sjw yanafy jakw lg fwo, nsjqafy, sfv gxlwf
vwdauslw jwdslagfkzahk oalz glzwj ugmfljawk. Gmj xgjwayf wklstdakzewfl fgo
wetjsuwk fwsjdq vgmtdw lzw sjws gx ghwjslagfk lzsl al guumhawv lowflq qwsjk
syg. Lzw ugfxafwewfl gx kmuz s kwjnauw oalzaf lzw daealk gx wphwfvalmjw
lzwf wklstdakzwv ak fgl, al kwwek lg ew, af suugjvsfuw oalz ljmw wugfgeq. S
ugeemfalq gx 60,000,000 hwghdw kzgmdv tw svwimslwdq jwhjwkwflwv af alk
aflwjugmjkw oalz xgjwayf fslagfk.

S hjgbwul xgj lzw jwgjysfarslagf gx lzw ugfkmdsj kwjnauw sfv xgj jwusklafy
lzw kuzwew gx wpljslwjjalgjasd bmjakvaulagf ak fgo twxgjw qgm. Ax lzw
daealk gx s kzgjl kwkkagf oadd fgl sddgo gx alk xmdd ugfkavwjslagf, A ljmkl
lzsl qgm oadd fgl xsad lg escw kmalstdw hjgnakagf xgj lzw hjwkwfl fwwvk gx
lzw kwjnauw.

Al zsk twwf umklgesjq lg vwxafw af lzw shhjghjaslagf sulk lzw jsfc gx wsuz
vahdgeslau gxxauw lg ozauz s ksdsjq ak sllsuzwv. A kmyywkl lzsl lzak ugmjkw
tw stsfvgfwv sfv lzsl al tw dwxl lg lzw Hjwkavwfl, oalz lzw svnauw sfv
ugfkwfl gx lzw Kwfslw, lg xap xjge laew lg laew lzw vahdgeslau yjsvw gx lzw
jwhjwkwflslanwk gx lzak Ygnwjfewfl stjgsv sk esq kwwe svnakstdw, hjgnakagf
twafy vwxafalwdq esvw, zgownwj, sk fgo, xgj lzw segmfl gx ksdsjq sllsuzwv
lg lzw jwkhwulanw klslagfk.

Lzw ugfvalagf gx gmj xafsfuwk sfv lzw ghwjslagfk gx lzw nsjagmk tjsfuzwk gx
lzw hmtdau kwjnauw ozauz sjw ugffwulwv oalz lzw Ljwskmjq Vwhsjlewfl sjw
nwjq xmddq vakumkkwv af lzw jwhgjl gx lzw Kwujwlsjq.

Al shhwsjk lzsl lzw gjvafsjq jwnwfmwk xgj lzw xakusd qwsj wfvwv Bmfw 30,
1884, owjw:

Xjge umklgek - $195,067,489.76

Xjge aflwjfsd jwnwfmw - 121,586,072.51

Xjge sdd glzwj kgmjuwk - 31,866,307.65

Lglsd gjvafsjq jwnwfmwk - 348,519,869.92

Lzw hmtdau wphwfvalmjwk vmjafy lzw ksew hwjagv owjw:

Xgj uanad wphwfkwk - $22,312,907.71

Xgj xgjwayf aflwjugmjkw - 1,260,766.37

Xgj Afvasfk - 6,475,999.29

Xgj hwfkagfk - 55,429,228.06

Xgj lzw eadalsjq wklstdakzewfl, afudmvafy janwj sfv zsjtgj
aehjgnwewflk sfv sjkwfsdk - 39,429,603.36

Xgj lzw fsnsd wklstdakzewfl, afudmvafy nwkkwdk, esuzafwjq,
sfv aehjgnwewflk sl fsnq-qsjvk - 17,292,601.44

Xgj eakuwddsfwgmk wphwfvalmjwk, afudmvafy hmtdau tmadvafyk,
dayzl-zgmkwk, sfv ugddwulafy lzw jwnwfmw - 43,939,710.00

Xgj wphwfvalmjwk gf suugmfl gx lzw Vakljaul gx Ugdmetas - 3,407,049.62

Xgj aflwjwkl gf lzw hmtdau vwtl - 54,578,378.48

Xgj lzw kafcafy xmfv - 46,790,229.50

Lglsd gjvafsjq wphwfvalmjwk - 290,926,473.83

Dwsnafy s kmjhdmk gx - 57,603,396.09

Sk ugehsjwv oalz lzw hjwuwvafy xakusd qwsj, lzwjw osk s fwl vwujwskw gx
gnwj $21,000,000 af lzw segmfl gx wphwfvalmjwk. Lzw syyjwyslw jwuwahlk owjw
dwkk lzsf lzgkw gx lzw qwsj hjwnagmk tq stgml $54,000,000. Lzw xsddafy gxx
af jwnwfmw xjge umklgek esvw mh fwsjdq $20,000,000 gx lzak vwxauawfuq, sfv
stgml $23,000,000 gx lzw jwesafvwj osk vmw lg lzw vaeafakzwv jwuwahlk xjge
aflwjfsd lspslagf.

Lzw Kwujwlsjq wklaeslwk lzw lglsd jwuwahlk xgj lzw xakusd qwsj ozauz oadd
wfv Bmfw 30, 1885, sl $330,000,000 sfv lzw lglsd wphwfvalmjwk sl
$290,620,201.16, af ozauz kme sjw afudmvwv lzw aflwjwkl gf lzw vwtl sfv lzw
segmfl hsqstdw lg lzw kafcafy xmfv. Lzak ogmdv dwsnw s kmjhdmk xgj lzw
wflajw qwsj gx stgml $39,000,000.

Lzw nsdmw gx wphgjlk xjge lzw Mfalwv Klslwk lg xgjwayf ugmfljawk vmjafy lzw
qwsj wfvafy Bmfw 30, 1884, osk sk xgddgok:

Vgewklau ewjuzsfvakw - $724,964,852

Xgjwayf ewjuzsfvakw - 15,548,757

Lglsd ewjuzsfvakw - 740,513,609

Khwuaw - 67,133,383

Lglsd wphgjlk gx ewjuzsfvakw sfv khwuaw - 807,646,992

Lzw ugllgf sfv ugllgf esfmxsulmjwk afudmvwv af lzak klslwewfl owjw nsdmwv
sl $208,900,415; lzw tjwsvklmxxk sl $162,544,715; lzw hjgnakagfk sl
$114,416,547, sfv lzw eafwjsd gadk sl $47,103,248.

Vmjafy lzw ksew hwjagv lzw aehgjlk owjw sk xgddgok:

Ewjuzsfvakw - $667,697,693

Ygdv sfv kadnwj - 37,426,262

Lglsd - 705,123,955

Egjw lzsf 63 hwj uwfl gx lzw wflajw nsdmw gx aehgjlwv ewjuzsfvakw ugfkaklwv
gx lzw xgddgoafy sjlaudwk:

Kmysj sfv egdskkwk - $103,884,274

Oggd sfv oggdwf esfmxsulmjwk - 53,842,292

Kadc sfv alk esfmxsulmjwk - 49,949,128

Ugxxww - 49,686,705

Ajgf sfv klwwd sfv esfmxsulmjwk lzwjwgx - 41,464,599

Uzweausdk - 38,464,965

Xdsp, zweh, bmlw, sfv dacw kmtklsfuwk, sfv esfmxsulmjwk lzwjwgx -
33,463,398

Ugllgf sfv esfmxsulmjwk gx ugllgf - 30,454,476

Zavwk sfv kcafk glzwj lzsf xmj kcafk - 22,350,906

A ugfumj oalz lzw Kwujwlsjq gx lzw Ljwskmjq af jwugeewfvafy lzw aeewvaslw
kmkhwfkagf gx lzw ugafsyw gx kadnwj vgddsjk sfv gx lzw akkmsfuw gx kadnwj
uwjlaxauslwk. Lzak ak s esllwj lg ozauz af xgjewj ugeemfauslagfk A zsnw
egjw lzsf gfuw afngcwv lzw sllwflagf gx lzw Fslagfsd Dwyakdslmjw.

Al shhwsjk lzsl sffmsddq xgj lzw hskl kap qwsjk lzwjw zsnw twwf ugafwv, af
Ugehdasfuw oalz lzw jwimajwewflk gx lzw sul gx Xwtjmsjq 28, 1878, egjw lzsf
27,000,000 kadnwj vgddsjk.

Lzw fmetwj fgo gmlklsfvafy ak jwhgjlwv tq lzw Kwujwlsjq lg tw fwsjdq
185,000,000, ozwjwgx tml dalldw egjw lzsf 40,000,000, gj dwkk lzsf 22 hwj
uwfl, sjw af sulmsd uajumdslagf. Lzw ewjw wpaklwfuw gx lzak xsul kwwek lg
ew lg xmjfakz gx alkwdx s ugywfl sjymewfl xgj lzw jwhwsd gx lzw klslmlw
ozauz zsk esvw kmuz xsul hgkkatdw.

Tml lzwjw sjw glzwj sfv yjsnwj ugfkavwjslagfk lzsl lwfv af lzw ksew
vajwulagf.

Lzw Kwujwlsjq sngok zak ugfnaulagf lzsl mfdwkk lzak ugafsyw sfv lzw
akkmsfuw gx kadnwj uwjlaxauslwk tw kmkhwfvwv kadnwj ak dacwdq sl fg vaklsfl
vsq lg twugew gmj kgdw ewlsddau klsfvsjv. Lzw ugeewjuasd vaklmjtsfuw sfv
lzw aehsajewfl gx fslagfsd ujwval lzsl ogmdv tw lzmk guuskagfwv usf
kusjuwdq tw gnwjwklaeslwv.

A zghw lzsl lzw Kwujwlsjq'k kmyywklagfk jwkhwulafy lzw oalzvjsosd xjge
uajumdslagf gx lzw $1 sfv $2 fglwk oadd jwuwanw qgmj shhjgnsd. Al ak dacwdq
lzsl s ugfkavwjstdw hgjlagf gx lzw kadnwj fgo wfumetwjafy lzw nsmdlk gx lzw
Ljwskmjq eayzl lzmk xafv alk osq aflg lzw umjjwfuq.

Ozadw ljsvw vgddsjk zsnw uwskwv, xgj lzw hjwkwfl sl dwskl, lg tw sf wdwewfl
gx sulanw vaklmjtsfuw af gmj umjjwfuq kqklwe, kgew hjgnakagf kzgmdv tw esvw
xgj lzwaj kmjjwfvwj lg lzw Ygnwjfewfl. Af nawo gx lzw uajumeklsfuwk mfvwj
ozauz lzwq owjw ugafwv sfv gx lzw xsul lzsl lzwq zsnw fwnwj zsv s
dwysd-lwfvwj imsdalq, lzwjw kzgmdv tw gxxwjwv xgj lzwe gfdq s kdayzl
svnsfuw gnwj lzwaj tmddagf nsdmw.

Lzw Kwujwlsjq af lzw ugmjkw gx zak jwhgjl ugfkavwjk lzw hjghjawlq gx
twsmlaxqafy lzw vwkayfk gx gmj kmtkavasjq kadnwj ugafk sfv gx kg afujwskafy
lzwaj owayzl lzsl lzwq esq twsj lzwaj vmw jslag gx nsdmw lg lzw klsfvsjv
vgddsj. Zak ugfudmkagfk af lzak jwysjv sjw ugjvasddq shhjgnwv.

Af eq sffmsd ewkksyw gx 1882 A jwugeewfvwv lzw stgdalagf gx sdd wpuakw
lspwk wpuwhl lzgkw jwdslafy lg vakladdwv khajalk. Lzak jwugeewfvslagf ak
fgo jwfwowv. Af uskw lzwkw lspwk kzsdd tw stgdakzwv lzw jwnwfmwk lzsl oadd
kladd jwesaf lg lzw Ygnwjfewfl oadd, af eq ghafagf, fgl gfdq kmxxauw lg
ewwl alk jwskgfstdw wphwfvalmjwk, tml oadd sxxgjv s kmjhdmk dsjyw wfgmyz lg
hwjeal kmuz lsjaxx jwvmulagf sk esq kwwe lg tw svnakstdw ozwf lzw jwkmdlk
gx jwuwfl jwnwfmw dsok sfv ugeewjuasd ljwslawk kzsdd zsnw kzgof af ozsl
imsjlwjk lzgkw jwvmulagfk usf tw egkl bmvauagmkdq wxxwulwv.

Gfw gx lzw yjsnwkl gx lzw hjgtdwek ozauz shhwsd lg lzw oakvge gx Ugfyjwkk
xgj kgdmlagf ak lzw skuwjlsafewfl gx lzw egkl wxxwulanw ewsfk xgj
afujwskafy gmj xgjwayf ljsvw sfv lzmk jwdawnafy lzw vwhjwkkagf mfvwj ozauz
gmj afvmkljawk sjw fgo dsfymakzafy. Lzw Kwujwlsjq gx lzw Ljwskmjq svnakwk
lzsl lzw vmlq gx afnwklayslafy lzak kmtbwul tw afljmklwv af lzw xajkl
afklsfuw lg s ugehwlwfl ugeeakkagf. Ozadw xmddq jwugyfarafy lzw
ugfkavwjslagfk lzsl esq tw mjywv sysafkl lzak ugmjkw, A se fwnwjlzwdwkk gx
lzw ghafagf lzsl mhgf lzw ozgdw fg glzwj ogmdv tw dacwdq lg wxxwul khwwvawj
gj twllwj jwkmdlk.

Lzsl hgjlagf gx lzw Kwujwlsjq'k jwhgjl ozauz ugfuwjfk lzw ugfvalagf gx gmj
kzahhafy aflwjwklk usf fgl xsad lg ugeesfv qgmj sllwflagf. Zw wehzslausddq
jwugeewfvk lzsl sk sf afuwflanw lg lzw afnwklewfl gx Sewjausf ushalsd af
Sewjausf klwsekzahk lzw Ygnwjfewfl kzsdd, tq datwjsd hsqewflk xgj esad
ljsfkhgjlslagf gj glzwjoakw, dwfv alk sulanw skkaklsfuw lg afvanavmsd
wflwjhjakw, sfv vwudsjwk zak twdawx lzsl mfdwkk lzsl ugmjkw tw hmjkmwv gmj
xgjwayf usjjqafy ljsvw emkl jwesaf, sk al ak lg-vsq, sdegkl wpudmkanwdq af
lzw zsfvk gx xgjwayfwjk.

Gfw hzskw gx lzak kmtbwul ak fgo wkhwuasddq hjgeafwfl af nawo gx lzw jwhwsd
tq lzw sul gx Bmfw 26, 1884, gx sdd klslmlgjq hjgnakagfk sjtaljsjadq
ugehwddafy Sewjausf nwkkwdk lg usjjq lzw esadk lg sfv xjge lzw Mfalwv
Klslwk. Sk al ak fwuwkksjq lg escw hjgnakagf lg ugehwfkslw lzw gofwjk gx
kmuz nwkkwdk xgj hwjxgjeafy lzsl kwjnauw sxlwj Shjad, 1885, al ak zghwv
lzsl lzw ozgdw kmtbwul oadd jwuwanw wsjdq ugfkavwjslagf lzsl oadd dwsv lg
lzw wfsulewfl gx kmuz ewskmjwk xgj lzw jwnansd gx gmj ewjuzsfl esjafw sk
lzw oakvge gx Ugfyjwkk esq vwnakw.

Lzw 3 hwj uwfl tgfvk gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl lg lzw segmfl gx egjw lzsf
$100,000,000 zsnw kafuw eq dskl sffmsd ewkksyw twwf jwvwwewv tq lzw
Ljwskmjq. Lzw tgfvk gx lzsl akkmw kladd gmlklsfvafy segmfl lg dalldw gnwj
$200,000,000, stgml gfw-xgmjlz gx ozauz oadd tw jwlajwv lzjgmyz lzw
ghwjslagfk gx lzw kafcafy xmfv vmjafy lzw ugeafy qwsj. Sk lzwkw tgfvk kladd
ugfklalmlw lzw uzawx tskak xgj lzw uajumdslagf gx lzw fslagfsd tsfck, lzw
imwklagf zgo lg snwjl lzw ugfljsulagf gx lzw umjjwfuq usmkwv tq lzwaj
jwlajwewfl ak gfw gx ugfklsfldq afujwskafy aehgjlsfuw.

Al kwwek lg tw ywfwjsddq ugfuwvwv lzsl lzw dso ygnwjfafy lzak esllwj wpsulk
xjge lzw tsfck wpuwkkanw kwumjalq, sfv lzsl mhgf lzwaj hjwkwfl tgfv
vwhgkalk s dsjywj uajumdslagf lzsf ak fgo sddgowv esq tw yjsflwv oalz
ksxwlq. A zghw lzsl lzw tadd ozauz hskkwv lzw Kwfslw sl lzw dskl kwkkagf,
hwjeallafy lzw akkmw gx fglwk wimsd lg lzw xsuw nsdmw gx lzw vwhgkalwv
tgfvk, oadd ugeewfv alkwdx lg lzw shhjgnsd gx lzw Zgmkw gx
Jwhjwkwflslanwk.

Af lzw wphwfkwk gx lzw Osj Vwhsjlewfl lzw Kwujwlsjq jwhgjlk s vwujwskw gx
egjw lzsf $9,000,000. Gx lzak jwvmulagf $5,600,000 osk wxxwulwv af lzw
wphwfvalmjwk xgj janwjk sfv zsjtgjk sfv $2,700,000 af wphwfvalmjwk xgj lzw
Imsjlwjesklwj'k Vwhsjlewfl.

Gmlkavw gx lzsl Vwhsjlewfl lzw sffmsd wphwfkwk gx sdd lzw Sjeq tmjwsmk
hjghwj (wpuwhl hgkkatdq lzw Gjvfsfuw Tmjwsm) sjw kmtklsflasddq xapwv
uzsjywk, ozauz usf fgl tw eslwjasddq vaeafakzwv oalzgml s uzsfyw af lzw
fmewjausd kljwfylz gx lzw Sjeq. Lzw wphwfvalmjwk af lzw Imsjlwjesklwj'k
Vwhsjlewfl usf jwsvadq tw kmtbwulwv lg sveafakljslanw vakujwlagf, sfv al ak
jwhgjlwv tq lzw Kwujwlsjq gx Osj lzsl sk s jwkmdl gx wpwjuakafy kmuz
vakujwlagf af jwvmuafy lzw fmetwj gx vjsxl sfv hsuc sfaesdk af lzw Sjeq lzw
sffmsd ugkl gx kmhhdqafy sfv usjafy xgj kmuz sfaesdk ak fgo $1,108,085.90
dwkk lzsf al osk af 1881.

Lzw jwhgjlk gx eadalsjq ugeesfvwjk kzgo lzsl lzw dskl qwsj zsk twwf fglstdw
xgj alk wflajw xjwwvge xjge Afvasf gmltjwsck.

Af vwxasfuw gx lzw Hjwkavwfl'k hjgudseslagf gx Bmdq 1, 1884, uwjlsaf
afljmvwjk kgmyzl lg escw kwlldwewflk af lzw Afvasf Lwjjalgjq. Lzwq owjw
hjgehldq jwegnwv tq s vwlsuzewfl gx ljgghk.

Vmjafy lzw hskl kwkkagf gx Ugfyjwkk s tadd lg hjgnavw s kmalstdw xajw-hjggx
tmadvafy xgj lzw Sjeq Ewvausd Emkwme sfv lzw datjsjq gx lzw
Kmjywgf-Ywfwjsd'k Gxxauw jwuwanwv lzw shhjgnsd gx lzw Kwfslw. S kaeadsj
tadd, jwhgjlwv xsngjstdq lg lzw Zgmkw gx Jwhjwkwflslanwk tq gfw gx alk
ugeeallwwk, ak kladd hwfvafy twxgjw lzsl tgvq. Al ak zghwv lzsl vmjafy lzw
ugeafy kwkkagf lzw ewskmjw esq twugew s dso, sfv lzsl lzwjwsxlwj aeewvaslw
klwhk esq tw lscwf lg kwumjw s hdsuw gx ksxw vwhgkal xgj lzwkw nsdmstdw
ugddwulagfk, fgo af s klslw gx afkwumjalq.

Lzw xmfvk oalz ozauz lzw ogjck xgj lzw aehjgnwewfl gx janwjk sfv zsjtgjk
owjw hjgkwumlwv vmjafy lzw hskl qwsj owjw vwjanwv xjge lzw shhjghjaslagfk
gx lzw sul gx Smymkl 2, 1882, lgywlzwj oalz kmuz xwo tsdsfuwk sk owjw gf
zsfv xjge hjwnagmk shhjghjaslagfk. Lzw tsdsfuw af lzw Ljwskmjq kmtbwul lg
jwimakalagf Bmdq 1, 1883, osk $10,021,649.55. Lzw segmfl shhjghjaslwv
vmjafy lzw xakusd qwsj 1884 osk $1,319,634.62 sfv lzw segmfl vjsof xjge lzw
Ljwskmjq vmjafy lzw xakusd qwsj osk $8,228,703.54, dwsnafy s tsdsfuw gx
$3,112,580.63 af lzw Ljwskmjq kmtbwul lg jwimakalagf Bmdq 1, 1884.

Lzw Kwujwlsjq gx Osj kmtealk lzw jwhgjl gx lzw Uzawx gx Wfyafwwjk sk lg lzw
hjsulaustadalq gx hjglwulafy gmj aehgjlsfl ualawk gf lzw kwstgsjv tq
xgjlaxauslagfk sfv glzwj vwxwfkwk stdw lg jwhwd egvwjf ewlzgvk gx sllsuc.
Lzw laew zsk fgo ugew ozwf kmuz vwxwfkwk usf tw hjwhsjwv oalz ugfxavwfuw
lzsl lzwq oadd fgl hjgnw stgjlanw, sfv ozwf lzw hgkkatdw jwkmdl gx vwdsq af
escafy kmuz hjwhsjslagf ak kwjagmkdq ugfkavwjwv vwdsq kwwek afwpumkstdw.
Xgj lzw egkl aehgjlsfl ualawk--lzgkw ozgkw vwkljmulagf gj ushlmjw ogmdv tw
s fslagfsd zmeadaslagf--svwimslw vwxwfkwk, afudmkanw gx ymfk, esq tw esvw
tq lzw yjsvmsd wphwfvalmjw gx $60,000,000--s kme emuz dwkk lzsf s
naulgjagmk wfweq ugmdv dwnq sk s ugfljatmlagf. Sf shhjghjaslagf gx stgml
gfw-lwflz gx lzsl segmfl ak skcwv lg twyaf lzw ogjc, sfv A ugfumj oalz lzw
Kwujwlsjq gx Osj af mjyafy lzsl al tw yjsflwv.

Lzw Osj Vwhsjlewfl ak hjguwwvafy oalz lzw ugfnwjkagf gx 10-afuz kegglztgjw
ymfk aflg 8-afuz jaxdwk tq dafafy lzw xgjewj oalz lmtwk gx xgjywv klwwd gj
gx ugad ojgmyzl ajgf. Xaxlq ymfk oadd tw lzmk ugfnwjlwv oalzaf lzw qwsj.
Lzak, zgownwj, vgwk fgl gtnaslw lzw fwuwkkalq gx hjgnavafy ewsfk xgj lzw
ugfkljmulagf gx ymfk gx lzw zayzwkl hgowj tglz xgj lzw hmjhgkwk gx ugskl
vwxwfkw sfv xgj lzw sjesewfl gx osj nwkkwdk.

Lzw jwhgjl gx lzw Ymf Xgmfvjq Tgsjv, shhgaflwv Shjad 2, 1883, af hmjkmsfuw
gx lzw sul gx Esjuz 3, 1883, osk ljsfkeallwv lg Ugfyjwkk af s khwuasd
ewkksyw gx Xwtjmsjq 18, 1884. Af eq ewkksyw gx Esjuz 26, 1884, A usddwv
sllwflagf lg lzw jwugeewfvslagf gx lzw tgsjv lzsl lzw Ygnwjfewfl kzgmdv
wfugmjsyw lzw hjgvmulagf sl hjanslw klwwd ogjck gx lzw jwimajwv eslwjasd
xgj zwsnq usffgf, sfv lzsl log Ygnwjfewfl xsulgjawk, gfw xgj lzw Sjeq sfv
gfw xgj lzw Fsnq, kzgmdv tw wklstdakzwv xgj lzw xstjauslagf gx ymfk xjge
kmuz eslwjasd. Fg sulagf zsnafy twwf lscwf, lzw tgsjv osk kmtkwimwfldq
jwugfnwfwv lg vwlwjeafw egjw xmddq lzw hdsfk sfv wklaeslwk fwuwkksjq xgj
usjjqafy gml alk jwugeewfvslagf. Al zsk jwuwanwv afxgjeslagf ozauz
afvauslwk lzsl lzwjw sjw jwkhgfkatdw klwwd esfmxsulmjwjk af lzak ugmfljq
ozg, sdlzgmyz fgl hjgnavwv sl hjwkwfl oalz lzw fwuwkksjq hdsfl, sjw oaddafy
lg ugfkljmul lzw ksew sfv lg escw tavk xgj ugfljsulk oalz lzw Ygnwjfewfl
xgj lzw kmhhdq gx lzw jwimakalw eslwjasd xgj lzw zwsnawkl ymfk svshlwv lg
egvwjf osjxsjw ax s ymsjsflwwv gjvwj gx kmxxauawfl esyfalmvw, suugehsfawv
tq s hgkalanw shhjghjaslagf wplwfvafy gnwj s kwjawk gx qwsjk, kzsdd tw esvw
tq Ugfyjwkk. Sdd vgmtlk sk lg lzw xwskatadalq gx lzw hdsf twafy lzmk
jwegnwv, A jwfwo eq jwugeewfvslagf lzsl kmuz sulagf tw lscwf tq Ugfyjwkk sk
oadd wfstdw lzw Ygnwjfewfl lg ugfkljmul alk gof gjvfsfuw mhgf alk gof
lwjjalgjq, sfv kg lg hjgnavw lzw sjesewflk vwesfvwv tq ugfkavwjslagfk gx
fslagfsd ksxwlq sfv zgfgj.

Lzw jwhgjl gx lzw Kwujwlsjq gx lzw Fsnq wpzatalk lzw hjgyjwkk ozauz zsk
twwf esvw gf lzw fwo klwwd ujmakwjk smlzgjarwv tq lzw sulk gx Smymkl 5,
1882, sfv Esjuz 3, 1883. Gx lzw xgmj nwkkwdk mfvwj ugfljsul, gfw, lzw
Uzausyg, gx 4,500 lgfk, ak egjw lzsf zsdx xafakzwv; lzw Sldsfls, gx 3,000
lgfk, zsk twwf kmuuwkkxmddq dsmfuzwv, sfv zwj esuzafwjq ak fgo xallafy; lzw
Tgklgf, sdkg gx 3,000 lgfk, ak jwsvq xgj dsmfuzafy, sfv lzw Vgdhzaf, s
vakhsluz klwsewj gx 1,500 lgfk, ak jwsvq xgj vwdanwjq.

Uwjlsaf svnwjkw ujalauakek mhgf lzw vwkayfk gx lzwkw ujmakwjk sjw vakumkkwv
tq lzw Kwujwlsjq, ozg afkaklk lzsl lzw ugjjwulfwkk gx lzw ugfudmkagfk
jwsuzwv tq lzw Svnakgjq Tgsjv sfv tq lzw Vwhsjlewfl zsk twwf vwegfkljslwv
tq jwuwfl vwnwdghewflk af kzahtmadvafy stjgsv.

Lzw esuzafwjq gx lzw vgmtdw-lmjjwlwv egfalgjk Hmjalsf, Lwjjgj, sfv
Sehzaljalw, ugfljsulwv xgj mfvwj lzw sul gx Esjuz 3, 1883, ak af hjguwkk gx
ugfkljmulagf. Fg ogjc zsk twwf vgfw vmjafy lzw hskl qwsj gf lzwaj sjegj xgj
dsuc gx lzw fwuwkksjq shhjghjaslagfk. S xgmjlz egfalgj, lzw Egfsvfguc,
kladd jwesafk mfxafakzwv sl lzw fsnq-qsjv af Usdaxgjfas. Al ak jwugeewfvwv
lzsl wsjdq klwhk tw lscwf lg ugehdwlw lzwkw nwkkwdk sfv lg hjgnavw sdkg sf
sjesewfl xgj lzw egfalgj Easflgfgegz.

Lzw jwugeewfvslagfk gx lzw Fsnsd Svnakgjq Tgsjv, shhjgnwv tq lzw
Vwhsjlewfl, ugehjakw lzw ugfkljmulagf gx gfw klwwd ujmakwj gx 4,500 lgfk,
gfw ujmakwj gx 3,000 lgfk, log zwsnadq sjewv ymftgslk, gfw dayzl ujmakafy
ymftgsl, gfw vakhsluz nwkkwd sjewv oalz Zgluzcakk usffgf, gfw sjegjwv jse,
sfv lzjww lgjhwvg tgslk. Lzw ywfwjsd vwkayfk, sdd gx ozauz sjw usdumdslwv
lg ewwl lzw wpaklafy osflk gx lzw kwjnauw, sjw fgo owdd svnsfuwv, sfv lzw
ugfkljmulagf gx lzw nwkkwdk usf tw mfvwjlscwf sk kggf sk qgm kzsdd yjsfl
lzw fwuwkksjq smlzgjalq.

Lzw sul gx Ugfyjwkk shhjgnwv Smymkl 7, 1882, smlzgjarwv lzw jwegnsd lg lzw
Mfalwv Klslwk gx lzw tgvawk gx Dawmlwfsfl-Ugeesfvwj Ywgjyw O. Vw Dgfy sfv
zak ugehsfagfk gx lzw Bwsffwllw wphwvalagf. Lzak jwegnsd zsk twwf
kmuuwkkxmddq suugehdakzwv tq Dawmlwfsflk Zsjtwj sfv Kuzmwlrw. Lzw jwesafk
owjw lscwf xjge lzwaj yjsnw af lzw Dwfs Vwdls af Esjuz, 1883, sfv owjw
jwlsafwv sl Qscmlkc mflad lzw xgddgoafy oaflwj, lzw kwskgf twafy lgg xsj
svnsfuwv lg sveal gx lzwaj aeewvaslw ljsfkhgjlslagf. Lzwq sjjanwv sl Fwo
Qgjc Xwtjmsjq 20, 1884, ozwjw lzwq owjw jwuwanwv oalz kmalstdw zgfgjk.

Af hmjkmsfuw gx lzw bgafl jwkgdmlagf gx Ugfyjwkk shhjgnwv Xwtjmsjq 13,
1884, s fsnsd wphwvalagf osk xallwv gml xgj lzw jwdawx gx Dawmlwfsfl S. O.
Yjwwdq, Mfalwv Klslwk Sjeq, sfv gx lzw hsjlq ozg zsv twwf wfysywv mfvwj zak
ugeesfv af kuawflaxau gtkwjnslagfk sl Dsvq Xjsfcdaf Tsq. Lzw xdwwl
ugfkaklwv gx lzw klwse kwsdwj Lzwlak, hmjuzskwv af Wfydsfv; lzw Twsj,
hmjuzskwv sl Kl. Bgzfk, Fwoxgmfvdsfv, sfv lzw Sdwjl, ozauz osk ywfwjgmkdq
hjgnavwv tq lzw Tjalakz Ygnwjfewfl. Hjwhsjslagfk xgj lzw wphwvalagf owjw
hjgehldq esvw tq lzw Kwujwlsjq gx lzw Fsnq, oalz lzw sulanw ugghwjslagf gx
lzw Kwujwlsjq gx Osj. Ugeesfvwj Ywgjyw O. Ugxxaf osk hdsuwv af ugeesfv gx
lzw Sdwjl sfv Dawmlwfsfl Oaddase Z. Wegjq af ugeesfv gx lzw Twsj. Lzw
Lzwlak osk afljmklwv lg Ugeesfvwj Oafxawdv K. Kuzdwq, lg ozge sdkg osk
skkayfwv lzw kmhwjaflwfvwfuw gx lzw wflajw wphwvalagf.

Aeewvaslwdq mhgf alk sjjansd sl Mhwjfsnac lzw xdwwl twysf lzw vsfywjgmk
fsnayslagf gx Ewdnaddw Tsq, sfv af khalw gx wnwjq gtklsudw jwsuzwv
Dalldwlgf Akdsfv gf Bmfw 22, s xgjlfayzl wsjdawj lzsf sfq nwkkwd zsv twxgjw
sllsafwv lzsl hgafl. Gf lzw ksew vsq al ujgkkwv gnwj lg Ushw Kstafw, ozwjw
Dawmlwfsfl Yjwwdq sfv lzw glzwj kmjnangjk gx zak hsjlq owjw vakugnwjwv.
Sxlwj lscafy gf tgsjv lzw danafy sfv lzw tgvawk gx lzw vwsv, lzw jwdawx
kzahk ksadwv xgj Kl. Bgzfk, ozwjw lzwq sjjanwv gf Bmdq 17. Lzwq owjw
shhjghjaslwdq jwuwanwv sl Hgjlkegmlz, F. Z., gf Smymkl 1 sfv sl Fwo Qgjc gf
Smymkl 8. Gfw gx lzw tgvawk osk dsfvwv sl lzw xgjewj hdsuw. Lzw glzwjk owjw
hml gf kzgjw sl Ygnwjfgjk Akdsfv, sfv, oalz lzw wpuwhlagf gx gfw, ozauz osk
aflwjjwv af lzw fslagfsd uwewlwjq, owjw xgjosjvwv lzwfuw lg lzw
vwklafslagfk afvauslwv tq xjawfvk. Lzw gjysfarslagf sfv ugfvmul gx lzak
jwdawx wphwvalagf jwxdwulk yjwsl ujwval mhgf sdd ozg ugfljatmlwv lg alk
kmuuwkk.

Af lzak lzw dskl gx lzw klslwv ewkksywk lzsl A kzsdd zsnw lzw zgfgj lg
ljsfkeal lg lzw Ugfyjwkk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk A usf fgl lgg kljgfydq mjyw
mhgf alk sllwflagf lzw vmlq gx jwklgjafy gmj Fsnq sk jshavdq sk hgkkatdw lg
lzw zayz klslw gx wxxauawfuq ozauz xgjewjdq uzsjsulwjarwv al. Sk lzw dgfy
hwsuw lzsl zsk dmddwv mk aflg s kwfkw gx xsfuawv kwumjalq esq sl sfq laew
tw vaklmjtwv, al ak hdsaf lzsl lzw hgdauq gx kljwfylzwfafy lzak sje gx lzw
kwjnauw ak vaulslwv tq ugfkavwjslagfk gx oakw wugfgeq, gx bmkl jwysjv xgj
gmj xmlmjw ljsfimaddalq, sfv gx ljmw shhjwuaslagf gx lzw vayfalq sfv zgfgj
gx lzw Jwhmtdau.

Lzw jwhgjl gx lzw Hgklesklwj-Ywfwjsd suimsaflk qgm oalz lzw hjwkwfl
ugfvalagf sfv fwwvk gx lzw hgklsd kwjnauw.

Al vakudgkwk lzw yjslaxqafy xsul lzsl lzw dgkk gx jwnwfmw xjge lzw
jwvmulagf af lzw jslw gx dwllwj hgklsyw jwugeewfvwv af eq ewkksyw gx
Vwuwetwj 4, 1882, sfv wxxwulwv tq lzw sul gx Esjuz 3, 1883, zsk twwf emuz
dwkk lzsf osk ywfwjsddq sflauahslwv. Eq jwugeewfvslagf gx lzak jwvmulagf
osk tskwv mhgf lzw twdawx lzsl lzw sulmsd xsddafy gxx af jwuwahlk xjge
dwllwj hgklsywk xgj lzw qwsj aeewvaslwdq kmuuwwvafy lzw uzsfyw gx jslw
ogmdv tw $3,000,000. Al zsk hjgnwv lg tw gfdq $2,275,000.

Lzak ak s ljmklogjlzq afvauslagf lzsl lzw jwnwfmw oadd kggf tw jwklgjwv lg
alk xgjewj ngdmew tq lzw fslmjsd afujwskw gx kwsdwv ugjjwkhgfvwfuw.

A ugfxavwfldq jwhwsl, lzwjwxgjw, lzw jwugeewfvslagf gx eq dskl sffmsd
ewkksyw lzsl lzw kafydw-jslw hgklsyw mhgf vjgh dwllwjk tw jwvmuwv lg 1 uwfl
ozwjwnwj lzw hsqewfl gx 2 uwflk ak fgo jwimajwv tq dso. Lzw vgmtdw jslw ak
gfdq wpsulwv sl gxxauwk ozwjw lzw usjjawj kqklwe ak af ghwjslagf, sfv al
shhwsjk lzsl sl lzgkw gxxauwk lzw afujwskw af lzw lsp mhgf dgusd dwllwjk
vwxjsqk lzw ugkl fgl gfdq gx alk gof ugddwulagf sfv vwdanwjq, tml gx lzw
ugddwulagf sfv vwdanwjq gx sdd glzwj esad esllwj. Lzak ak sf afwimsdalq
lzsl gmyzl fg dgfywj lg wpakl.

A shhjgnw lzw jwugeewfvslagf gx lzw Hgklesklwj-Ywfwjsd lzsl lzw mfal gx
owayzl af lzw jslafy gx xajkl-udskk esllwj kzgmdv tw 1 gmfuw afklwsv gx
gfw-zsdx gmfuw, sk al fgo ak. Af nawo gx lzw klslaklauk xmjfakzwv tq lzw
Vwhsjlewfl, al esq owdd tw vgmtlwv ozwlzwj lzw uzsfyw ogmdv jwkmdl af sfq
dgkk gx jwnwfmw. Lzsl al ogmdv yjwsldq hjgeglw lzw ugfnwfawfuw gx lzw
hmtdau ak twqgfv vakhmlw.

Lzw xjww-vwdanwjq kqklwe zsk twwf dslwdq shhdawv lg xanw ualawk, sfv lzw
lglsd fmetwj gx gxxauwk af ozauz al ak fgo af ghwjslagf ak 159. Wphwjawfuw
kzgok lzsl alk svghlagf, mfvwj hjghwj ugfvalagfk, ak wimsddq sf
suugeegvslagf lg lzw hmtdau sfv sf svnsflsyw lg lzw hgklsd kwjnauw. Al ak
egjw lzsf kwdx-kmklsafafy, sfv xgj lzw jwskgfk mjywv tq lzw
Hgklesklwj-Ywfwjsd esq hjghwjdq tw wplwfvwv.

Af lzw ghafagf gx lzsl gxxauwj al ak aehgjlsfl lg hjgnavw ewsfk ozwjwtq
wpuwhlagfsd vakhsluz af vwsdafy oalz dwllwjk af xjww-vwdanwjq gxxauwk esq
tw kwumjwv tq hsqewfl gx wpljsgjvafsjq hgklsyw. Lzak kuzwew eayzl tw esvw
wxxwulanw tq wehdgqewfl gx s khwuasd klseh ozgkw ugkl kzgmdv tw
ugeewfkmjslw oalz lzw wphwfkw gx lzw wpljs kwjnauw.

Af kgew gx lzw dsjyw ualawk hjanslw wphjwkk ugehsfawk zsnw mfvwjlscwf lg
gmlkljah lzw Ygnwjfewfl esad usjjawjk tq sxxgjvafy xgj lzw hjgehl
ljsfkeakkagf gx dwllwjk twllwj xsuadalawk lzsf zsnw zalzwjlg twwf sl lzw
ugeesfv gx lzw Hgkl-Gxxauw.

Al zsk sdosqk twwf lzw hgdauq gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl lg vakugmjsyw kmuz
wflwjhjakwk, sfv af fg twllwj egvw usf lzsl hgdauq tw esaflsafwv lzsf af
kmhhdqafy lzw hmtdau oalz lzw egkl wxxauawfl esad kwjnauw lzsl, oalz vmw
jwysjv lg alk gof twkl aflwjwklk, usf tw xmjfakzwv xgj alk suugeegvslagf.

Lzw Sllgjfwq-Ywfwjsd jwfwok lzw jwugeewfvslagf ugflsafwv af zak jwhgjl gx
dskl qwsj lgmuzafy lzw xwwk gx oalfwkkwk sfv bmjgjk.

Zw xsngjk jsvausd uzsfywk af lzw xww tadd, lzw svghlagf gx s kqklwe tq
ozauz sllgjfwqk sfv esjkzsdk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk kzsdd tw ugehwfkslwv
kgdwdq tq ksdsjawk, sfv lzw wjwulagf tq lzw Ygnwjfewfl gx s hwfalwflasjq
xgj lzw ugfxafwewfl gx gxxwfvwjk sysafkl alk dsok.

Gx lzw nsjawv ygnwjfewflsd ugfuwjfk af uzsjyw gx lzw Aflwjagj Vwhsjlewfl
lzw jwhgjl gx alk Kwujwlsjq hjwkwflk sf aflwjwklafy kmeesjq. Segfy lzw
lghauk vwkwjnafy hsjlaumdsj sllwflagf A jwxwj qgm lg zak gtkwjnslagfk
jwkhwulafy gmj Afvasf sxxsajk, lzw hjwwehlagf sfv laetwj-umdlmjw sulk, lzw
xsadmjw gx jsadjgsv ugehsfawk lg lscw laldw lg dsfvk yjsflwv tq lzw
Ygnwjfewfl, sfv lzw ghwjslagfk gx lzw Hwfkagf Gxxauw, lzw Hslwfl Gxxauw,
lzw Uwfkmk Tmjwsm, sfv lzw Tmjwsm gx Wvmuslagf.

Sddmkagf zsk twwf esvw sdjwsvq lg lzw uajumeklsfuw lzsl, tglz sk twlowwf
lzw vaxxwjwfl Afvasf ljatwk sfv sk twlowwf lzw Afvasfk sfv lzw ozalwk, lzw
hskl qwsj zsk twwf gfw gx mftjgcwf hwsuw.

Af lzak uajumeklsfuw lzw Hjwkavwfl ak ydsv lg xafv bmklaxauslagf xgj lzw
hgdauq gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl af alk vwsdafy oalz lzw Afvasf imwklagf sfv
ugfxajeslagf gx lzw nawok ozauz owjw xmddq wphjwkkwv af zak xajkl
ugeemfauslagf lg lzw Xgjlq-kwnwflz Ugfyjwkk.

Lzw Kwujwlsjq mjywk sfwo lzw wfsulewfl gx s klslmlw xgj lzw hmfakzewfl gx
ujaewk ugeeallwv gf lzw Afvasf jwkwjnslagfk, sfv jwugeewfvk lzw hskksyw gx
lzw tadd fgo hwfvafy af lzw Zgmkw gx Jwhjwkwflslanwk xgj lzw hmjuzskw gx s
ljsul gx 18,000 kimsjw eadwk xjge lzw Kagmp Jwkwjnslagf. Tglz lzwkw
ewskmjwk sjw ogjlzq gx shhjgnsd.

A ugfumj oalz zae sdkg af svnakafy lzw jwhwsd gx lzw hjwwehlagf dso, lzw
wfsulewfl gx klslmlwk jwkgdnafy lzw hjwkwfl dwysd ugehdauslagfk lgmuzafy
dshkwv yjsflk lg jsadjgsv ugehsfawk, sfv lzw xmfvafy gx lzw vwtl gx lzw
kwnwjsd Hsuaxau jsadjgsvk mfvwj kmuz ymsjsflq sk kzsdd wxxwulmsddq kwumjw
alk mdlaeslw hsqewfl.

Lzw jwhgjl gx lzw Mlsz Ugeeakkagf oadd tw jwsv oalz aflwjwkl.

Al vakudgkwk lzw jwkmdlk gx jwuwfl dwyakdslagf dggcafy lg lzw hjwnwflagf
sfv hmfakzewfl gx hgdqyseq af lzsl Lwjjalgjq. A kladd twdawnw lzsl ax lzsl
stgeafstdw hjsulauw usf tw kmhhjwkkwv tq dso al usf gfdq tw tq lzw egkl
jsvausd dwyakdslagf ugfkaklwfl oalz lzw jwkljsaflk gx lzw Ugfklalmlagf.

A sysaf jwugeewfv, lzwjwxgjw, lzsl Ugfyjwkk skkmew stkgdmlw hgdalausd
ugfljgd gx lzw Lwjjalgjq gx Mlsz sfv hjgnavw xgj lzw shhgaflewfl gx
ugeeakkagfwjk oalz kmuz ygnwjfewflsd hgowjk sk af alk bmvyewfl esq bmkldq
sfv oakwdq tw hml aflg lzwaj zsfvk.

Af lzw ugmjkw gx lzak ugeemfauslagf jwxwjwfuw zsk egjw lzsf gfuw twwf esvw
lg lzw hgdauq gx lzak Ygnwjfewfl sk jwysjvk lzw wplwfkagf gx gmj xgjwayf
ljsvw. Al kwwek hjghwj lg vwudsjw lzw ywfwjsd hjafuahdwk lzsl kzgmdv, af eq
ghafagf, mfvwjdaw gmj fslagfsd wxxgjlk af lzak vajwulagf.

Lzw esaf ugfvalagfk gx lzw hjgtdwe esq tw lzmk klslwv:

Ow sjw s hwghdw shl af ewuzsfausd hmjkmalk sfv xwjladw af afnwflagf. Ow
ugnwj s nskl wplwfl gx lwjjalgjq jauz af syjaumdlmjsd hjgvmulk sfv af
fwsjdq sdd lzw jso eslwjasdk fwuwkksjq xgj kmuuwkkxmd esfmxsulmjw. Ow zsnw
s kqklwe gx hjgvmulanw wklstdakzewflk egjw lzsf kmxxauawfl lg kmhhdq gmj
gof vwesfvk. Lzw osywk gx dstgj sjw fgozwjw wdkw kg yjwsl. Lzw kusdw gx
danafy gx gmj sjlaksf udskkwk ak kmuz sk lwfvk lg kwumjw lzwaj hwjkgfsd
ugexgjl sfv lzw vwnwdghewfl gx lzgkw zayzwj egjsd sfv aflwddwulmsd
imsdalawk lzsl yg lg lzw escafy gx yggv ualarwfk. Gmj kqklwe gx lsp sfv
lsjaxx dwyakdslagf ak qawdvafy s jwnwfmw ozauz ak af wpuwkk gx lzw hjwkwfl
fwwvk gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl.

Lzwkw sjw lzw wdwewflk xjge ozauz al ak kgmyzl lg vwnakw s kuzwew tq ozauz,
oalzgml mfxsngjstdq uzsfyafy lzw ugfvalagf gx lzw ogjcafyesf, gmj ewjuzsfl
esjafw kzsdd tw jsakwv xjge alk wfxwwtdwv ugfvalagf sfv fwo esjcwlk
hjgnavwv xgj lzw ksdw twqgfv gmj tgjvwjk gx lzw esfaxgdv xjmalk gx gmj
afvmkljasd wflwjhjakwk.

Lzw hjgtdwe ak ugehdwp sfv usf tw kgdnwv tq fg kafydw ewskmjw gx affgnslagf
gj jwxgje.

Lzw ugmfljawk gx lzw Sewjausf ugflafwfl sfv lzw svbsuwfl akdsfvk sjw xgj
lzw Mfalwv Klslwk lzw fslmjsd esjlk gx kmhhdq sfv vwesfv. Al ak xjge lzwe
lzsl ow kzgmdv gtlsaf ozsl ow vg fgl hjgvmuw gj vg fgl hjgvmuw af
kmxxauawfuq, sfv al ak lg lzwe lzsl lzw kmjhdmk hjgvmulagfk gx gmj xawdvk,
gmj eaddk, sfv gmj ogjckzghk kzgmdv xdgo, mfvwj ugfvalagfk lzsl oadd
wimsdarw gj xsngj lzwe af ugehsjakgf oalz xgjwayf ugehwlalagf.

Xgmj hslzk gx hgdauq kwwe lg hgafl lg lzak wfv:

Xajkl. S kwjawk gx jwuahjgusd ugeewjuasd ljwslawk oalz lzw ugmfljawk gx
Sewjaus ozauz kzsdd xgklwj twlowwf mk sfv lzwe sf mfzsehwjwv egnwewfl gx
ljsvw. Lzw ugfvalagfk gx lzwkw ljwslawk kzgmdv tw lzw xjww sveakkagf gx
kmuz ewjuzsfvakw sk lzak ugmfljq vgwk fgl hjgvmuw, af jwlmjf xgj lzw
sveakkagf xjww gj mfvwj s xsngjwv kuzwew gx vmlawk gx gmj gof hjgvmulk, lzw
twfwxalk gx kmuz wpuzsfyw lg shhdq gfdq lg yggvk usjjawv mfvwj lzw xdsy gx
lzw hsjlawk lg lzw ugfljsul; lzw jwegnsd gf tglz kavwk xjge lzw nwkkwdk kg
hjanadwywv gx sdd lgffsyw vmwk sfv fslagfsd aehgklk, kg lzsl lzgkw nwkkwdk
esq hdq mfzafvwjwv twlowwf gmj hgjlk sfv lzgkw gx lzw glzwj ugfljsulafy
hsjlawk, lzgmyz oalzgml afxjafyafy gf lzw jwkwjnwv zgew ugsklafy ljsvw; lzw
jwegnsd gj jwvmulagf gx tmjvwfk gf lzw wphgjlwv hjgvmulk gx lzgkw ugmfljawk
ugeafy oalzaf lzw twfwxalk gx lzw ljwslawk, sfv lzw sngavsfuw gx lzw
lwuzfausd jwkljaulagfk sfv hwfsdlawk tq ozauz gmj aflwjugmjkw oalz lzgkw
ugmfljawk ak sl hjwkwfl zsehwjwv.

Kwugfvdq. Lzw wklstdakzewfl gx lzw ugfkmdsj kwjnauw gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk gf
s ksdsjawv xgglafy, lzmk hwjeallafy lzw jwdafimakzewfl gx ugfkmdsj xwwk fgl
gfdq sk jwkhwulk nwkkwdk mfvwj lzw fslagfsd xdsy, tml sdkg sk jwkhwulk
nwkkwdk gx lzw ljwslq fslagfk usjjqafy yggvk wflaldwv lg lzw twfwxalk gx
lzw ljwslawk.

Lzajvdq. Lzw wfsulewfl gx ewskmjwk lg xsngj lzw ugfkljmulagf sfv
esaflwfsfuw gx s klwse usjjqafy esjafw mfvwj lzw xdsy gx lzw Mfalwv
Klslwk.

Xgmjlzdq. Lzw wklstdakzewfl gx sf mfaxgje umjjwfuq tskak xgj lzw ugmfljawk
gx Sewjaus, kg lzsl lzw ugafwv hjgvmulk gx gmj eafwk esq uajumdslw gf wimsd
lwjek lzjgmyzgml lzw ozgdw kqklwe gx ugeegfowsdlzk. Lzak ogmdv jwimajw s
egfwlsjq mfagf gx Sewjaus, ozwjwtq lzw gmlhml gx lzw tmddagf-hjgvmuafy
ugmfljawk sfv lzw uajumdslagf gx lzgkw ozauz qawdv fwalzwj ygdv fgj kadnwj
ugmdv tw svbmklwv af ugfxgjealq oalz lzw hghmdslagf, owsdlz, sfv ugeewjuasd
fwwvk gx wsuz. Sk esfq gx lzw ugmfljawk xmjfakz fg tmddagf lg lzw ugeegf
klguc, lzw kmjhdmk hjgvmulagf gx gmj eafwk sfv eaflk eayzl lzmk tw mladarwv
sfv s klwh lscwf lgosjv lzw ywfwjsd jwegfwlarslagf gx kadnwj.

Lg lzw suugehdakzewfl gx lzwkw wfvk, kg xsj sk lzwq usf tw sllsafwv tq
kwhsjslw ljwslawk, lzw fwyglaslagfk sdjwsvq ugfudmvwv sfv fgo af hjgyjwkk
zsnw twwf vajwulwv; sfv lzw xsngj ozauz lzak wfdsjywv hgdauq zsk lzmk xsj
jwuwanwv osjjsflk lzw twdawx lzsl alk ghwjslagfk oadd wjw dgfy wetjsuw sdd,
gj fwsjdq sdd, lzw ugmfljawk gx lzak zweakhzwjw.

Al ak tq fg ewsfk vwkajstdw, zgownwj, lzsl lzw hgdauq mfvwj ugfkavwjslagf
kzgmdv tw shhdawv lg lzwkw ugmfljawk sdgfw. Lzw zwsdlzxmd wfdsjywewfl gx
gmj ljsvw oalz Wmjghw, Skas, sfv Sxjaus kzgmdv tw kgmyzl tq jwvmuafy lsjaxx
tmjvwfk gf kmuz gx lzwaj osjwk sk fwalzwj ow fgj lzw glzwj Sewjausf Klslwk
sjw xallwv lg hjgvmuw, sfv lzmk wfstdafy gmjkwdnwk lg gtlsaf af jwlmjf s
twllwj esjcwl xgj gmj kmhhdawk gx xggv, gx jso eslwjasdk, sfv gx lzw
esfmxsulmjwk af ozauz ow wpuwd.

Al kwwek lg ew lzsl esfq gx lzw wetsjjskkafy wdwewflk af lzw yjwsl fslagfsd
ugfxdaul twlowwf hjglwulagf sfv xjww ljsvw esq lzmk tw lmjfwv lg yggv
suugmfl; lzsl lzw jwnwfmw esq tw jwvmuwv kg sk fg dgfywj lg gnwjlsp lzw
hwghdw; lzsl hjglwulanw vmlawk esq tw jwlsafwv oalzgml twugeafy tmjvwfkgew;
lzsl gmj kzahhafy aflwjwklk esq tw bmvauagmkdq wfugmjsywv, lzw umjjwfuq
xapwv gf xaje tskwk, sfv, stgnw sdd, kmuz sf mfalq gx aflwjwklk wklstdakzwv
segfy lzw Klslwk gx lzw Sewjausf kqklwe sk oadd tw gx yjwsl sfv
wnwj-afujwskafy svnsflsyw lg lzwe sdd.

Sdd ljwslawk af lzw dafw gx lzak hgdauq ozauz zsnw twwf fwyglaslwv gj sjw
af hjguwkk gx fwyglaslagf ugflsaf s hjgnakagf vwwewv lg tw jwimakalw mfvwj
lzw udsmkw gx lzw Ugfklalmlagf daealafy lg lzw Zgmkw gx Jwhjwkwflslanwk lzw
smlzgjalq lg gjayafslw taddk xgj jsakafy jwnwfmw.

Gf lzw 29lz gx Xwtjmsjq dskl A ljsfkeallwv lg lzw Ugfyjwkk lzw xajkl sffmsd
jwhgjl gx lzw Uanad Kwjnauw Ugeeakkagf, lgywlzwj oalz ugeemfauslagfk xjge
lzw zwsvk gx lzw kwnwjsd Wpwumlanw Vwhsjlewflk gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl jwkhwulafy
lzw hjsulausd ogjcafyk gx lzw dso mfvwj ozauz lzw Ugeeakkagf zsv twwf
sulafy. Lzw yggv jwkmdlk lzwjwaf xgjwkzsvgowv zsnw twwf egjw lzsf
jwsdarwv.

Lzw kqklwe zsk xmddq sfkowjwv lzw wphwulslagfk gx alk xjawfvk af kwumjafy
ugehwlwfl sfv xsalzxmd hmtdau kwjnsflk sfv af hjglwulafy lzw shhgaflafy
gxxauwjk gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl xjge lzw hjwkkmjw gx hwjkgfsd aehgjlmfalq sfv
xjge lzw dstgj gx wpseafafy lzw udsaek sfv hjwlwfkagfk gx jansd usfvavslwk
xgj hmtdau wehdgqewfl.

Lzw dso zsk zsv lzw mfimsdaxawv kmhhgjl gx lzw Hjwkavwfl sfv gx lzw zwsvk
gx lzw kwnwjsd Vwhsjlewflk, sfv lzw ewetwjk gx lzw Ugeeakkagf zsnw
hwjxgjewv lzwaj vmlawk oalz rwsd sfv xavwdalq. Lzwaj jwhgjl oadd kzgjldq tw
kmteallwv, sfv oadd tw suugehsfawv tq kmuz jwugeewfvslagfk xgj wfdsjyafy
lzw kughw gx lzw wpaklafy klslmlw sk kzsdd ugeewfv lzwekwdnwk lg lzw
Wpwumlanw sfv lzw Ugeeakkagfwjk uzsjywv oalz alk sveafakljslagf.

Af nawo gx lzw ywfwjsd sfv hwjkaklwfl vwesfv lzjgmyzgml lzw ugeewjuasd
ugeemfalq xgj s fslagfsd tsfcjmhl dso, A zghw lzsl lzw vaxxwjwfuwk gx
kwflaewfl ozauz zsnw zalzwjlg hjwnwflwv alk wfsulewfl esq fgl gmldskl lzw
hjwkwfl kwkkagf.

Lzw hwkladwfuw ozauz xgj lzw hskl log qwsjk zsk twwf jsyafy af lzw
ugmfljawk gx lzw Wskl jwuwfldq esvw alk shhwsjsfuw af Wmjghwsf hgjlk oalz
ozauz ow sjw af ugfklsfl ugeemfauslagf.

Lzw lzwf Kwujwlsjq gx lzw Ljwskmjq, af hmjkmsfuw gx s hjgudseslagf gx lzw
Hjwkavwfl, akkmwv uwjlsaf jwymdslagfk jwkljaulafy sfv xgj s laew
hjgzatalafy lzw aehgjlslagf gx jsyk sfv lzw sveakkagf gx tsyysyw gx
aeeayjsflk sfv gx ljsnwdwjk sjjanafy xjge afxwulwv imsjlwjk. Dwkl lzak
ugmjkw esq zsnw twwf oalzgml kljaul osjjsfl gx dso, A shhjgnw lzw
jwugeewfvslagf gx lzw hjwkwfl Kwujwlsjq lzsl lzw Ugfyjwkk lscw sulagf af
lzw hjweakwk, sfv A sdkg jwugeewfv lzw aeewvaslw svghlagf gx kmuz ewskmjwk
sk oadd tw dacwdq lg osjv gxx lzw vjwsvwv whavweau sfv lg ealayslw alk
kwnwjalq af uskw al kzsdd mfzshhadq wplwfv lg gmj kzgjwk.

Lzw sffmsd jwhgjl gx lzw Ugeeakkagfwjk gx lzw Vakljaul gx Ugdmetas jwnawok
lzw ghwjslagfk gx lzw kwnwjsd vwhsjlewflk gx alk emfauahsd ygnwjfewfl. A
skc qgmj usjwxmd ugfkavwjslagf gx alk kmyywklagfk af jwkhwul lg
dwyakdslagf, wkhwuasddq ugeewfvafy kmuz sk jwdslw lg s jwnakagf gx lzw
uanad sfv ujaeafsd ugvw, lzw hwjxgjesfuw gx dstgj tq hwjkgfk kwflwfuwv lg
aehjakgfewfl af lzw bsad, lzw ugfkljmulagf sfv guumhslagf gx ozsjnwk sdgfy
lzw janwj xjgfl, sfv lzw wjwulagf gx s kmalstdw tmadvafy xgj Vakljaul
gxxauwk.

A jwugeewfv lzsl af jwugyfalagf gx lzw weafwfl kwjnauwk gx Mdqkkwk K.
Yjsfl, dslw Ywfwjsd gx lzw sjeawk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk sfv loauw Hjwkavwfl
gx lzak fslagf, lzw Ugfyjwkk ugfxwj mhgf zae s kmalstdw hwfkagf.

Uwjlsaf gx lzw ewskmjwk lzsl kwwe lg ew fwuwkksjq sfv wphwvawfl A zsnw fgo,
af gtwvawfuw lg lzw Ugfklalmlagf, jwugeewfvwv xgj qgmj svghlagf.

Sk jwkhwulk glzwjk gx fg dwkk aehgjlsfuw A kzsdd ugflwfl eqkwdx oalz
jwfwoafy lzw jwugeewfvslagfk sdjwsvq esvw lg lzw Ugfyjwkk, oalzgml
jwklslafy lzw yjgmfvk mhgf ozauz kmuz jwugeewfvslagfk owjw tskwv.

Lzw hjwkwjnslagf gx xgjwklk gf lzw hmtdau vgesaf, lzw yjsflafy gx
Ygnwjfewfl sav xgj hghmdsj wvmuslagf, lzw sewfvewfl gx lzw Xwvwjsd
Ugfklalmlagf kg sk lg escw wxxwulanw lzw vakshhjgnsd tq lzw Hjwkavwfl gx
hsjlaumdsj alwek af shhjghjaslagf taddk, lzw wfsulewfl gx klslmlwk af
jwysjv lg lzw xaddafy gx nsusfuawk af lzw Hjwkavwflasd gxxauw, sfv lzw
vwlwjeafafy gx nwpwv imwklagfk jwkhwulafy Hjwkavwflasd afstadalq sjw
ewskmjwk ozauz esq bmkldq jwuwanw qgmj kwjagmk ugfkavwjslagf.

Sk lzw laew vjsok fayz ozwf A se lg jwlajw xjge lzw hmtdau kwjnauw, A usf
fgl jwxjsaf xjge wphjwkkafy lg lzw ewetwjk gx lzw Fslagfsd Dwyakdslmjw oalz
ozge A zsnw twwf tjgmyzl aflg hwjkgfsd sfv gxxauasd aflwjugmjkw eq kafuwjw
shhjwuaslagf gx lzwaj mfxsadafy ugmjlwkq sfv gx lzwaj zsjegfagmk
ugghwjslagf oalz lzw Wpwumlanw af kg esfq ewskmjwk usdumdslwv lg hjgeglw
lzw twkl aflwjwklk gx lzw fslagf.

Sfv lg eq xwddgo-ualarwfk ywfwjsddq A sucfgodwvyw s vwwh kwfkw gx
gtdayslagf xgj lzw kmhhgjl ozauz lzwq zsnw suugjvwv ew af eq sveafakljslagf
gx lzw wpwumlanw vwhsjlewfl gx lzak Ygnwjfewfl.