Kjqqtb-Hnynejsx tk ymj Xjsfyj fsi Mtzxj tk Wjuwjxjsyfynajx:

Ymwtzlmtzy ymj djfw xnshj tzw qfxy rjjynsl ymj htzsywd mfx gjjs jrnsjsyqd
uwtxujwtzx ns fqq nyx rfyjwnfq nsyjwjxyx. Ymj ljsjwfq mjfqym mfx gjjs
jchjqqjsy, tzw mfwajxyx mfaj gjjs fgzsifsy, fsi uqjsyd xrnqjx ymwtzlmtzy
ymj qfzi. Tzw htrrjwhj fsi rfszkfhyzwjx mfaj gjjs uwtxjhzyji bnym jsjwld
fsi nsizxywd, fsi mfaj dnjqiji kfnw fsi fruqj wjyzwsx. Ns xmtwy, st sfynts
ns ymj ynij tk ynrj mfx jajw uwjxjsyji f xujhyfhqj tk lwjfyjw rfyjwnfq
uwtxujwnyd ymfs bj mfaj itsj zsynq bnymns f ajwd wjhjsy ujwnti.

Bmd nx ny, ymjs, ymfy inxhtsyjsy stb xt jcyjsxnajqd uwjafnqx, fsi ymj Zsnts
tk ymj Xyfyjx, bmnhm nx ymj xtzwhj tk fqq ymjxj gqjxxnslx, nx ymwjfyjsji
bnym ijxywzhynts?

Ymj qtsl-htsynszji fsi nsyjrujwfyj nsyjwkjwjshj tk ymj Stwymjws ujtuqj bnym
ymj vzjxynts tk xqfajwd ns ymj Xtzymjws Xyfyjx mfx fy qjslym uwtizhji nyx
sfyzwfq jkkjhyx. Ymj inkkjwjsy xjhyntsx tk ymj Zsnts fwj stb fwwfdji
flfnsxy jfhm tymjw, fsi ymj ynrj mfx fwwnaji, xt rzhm iwjfiji gd ymj Kfymjw
tk mnx Htzsywd, bmjs mtxynqj ljtlwfumnhfq ufwynjx mfaj gjjs ktwrji.

N mfaj qtsl ktwjxjjs fsi tkyjs ktwjbfwsji rd htzsywdrjs tk ymj stb
nrujsinsl ifsljw. Ymnx itjx sty uwthjji xtqjqd kwtr ymj hqfnr ts ymj ufwy
tk Htslwjxx tw ymj Yjwwnytwnfq qjlnxqfyzwjx yt jchqzij xqfajwd kwtr ymj
Yjwwnytwnjx, stw kwtr ymj jkktwyx tk inkkjwjsy Xyfyjx yt ijkjfy ymj
jcjhzynts tk ymj kzlnynaj-xqfaj qfb. Fqq tw fsd tk ymjxj janqx rnlmy mfaj
gjjs jsizwji gd ymj Xtzym bnymtzy ifsljw yt ymj Zsnts (fx tymjwx mfaj gjjs)
ns ymj mtuj ymfy ynrj fsi wjkqjhynts rnlmy fuuqd ymj wjrjid. Ymj nrrjinfyj
ujwnq fwnxjx sty xt rzhm kwtr ymjxj hfzxjx fx kwtr ymj kfhy ymfy ymj
nshjxxfsy fsi antqjsy flnyfynts tk ymj xqfajwd vzjxynts ymwtzlmtzy ymj
Stwym ktw ymj qfxy vzfwyjw tk f hjsyzwd mfx fy qjslym uwtizhji nyx rfqnls
nskqzjshj ts ymj xqfajx fsi nsxunwji ymjr bnym aflzj styntsx tk kwjjitr.
Mjshj f xjsxj tk xjhzwnyd st qtsljw jcnxyx fwtzsi ymj kfrnqd fqyfw. Ymnx
kjjqnsl tk ujfhj fy mtrj mfx lnajs uqfhj yt fuuwjmjsxntsx tk xjwanqj
nsxzwwjhyntsx. Rfsd f rfywts ymwtzlmtzy ymj Xtzym wjynwjx fy snlmy ns iwjfi
tk bmfy rfd gjkfqq mjwxjqk fsi hmnqiwjs gjktwj ymj rtwsnsl. Xmtzqi ymnx
fuuwjmjsxnts tk itrjxynh ifsljw, bmjymjw wjfq tw nrflnsfwd, jcyjsi fsi
nsyjsxnkd nyxjqk zsynq ny xmfqq ujwafij ymj rfxxjx tk ymj Xtzymjws ujtuqj,
ymjs inxzsnts bnqq gjhtrj nsjanyfgqj. Xjqk-uwjxjwafynts nx ymj knwxy qfb tk
sfyzwj, fsi mfx gjjs nruqfsyji ns ymj mjfwy tk rfs gd mnx Hwjfytw ktw ymj
bnxjxy uzwutxj; fsi st utqnynhfq zsnts, mtbjajw kwfzlmy bnym gqjxxnslx fsi
gjsjknyx ns fqq tymjw wjxujhyx, hfs qtsl htsynszj nk ymj sjhjxxfwd
htsxjvzjshj gj yt wjsijw ymj mtrjx fsi ymj knwjxnijx tk sjfwqd mfqk ymj
ufwynjx yt ny mfgnyzfqqd fsi mtujqjxxqd nsxjhzwj. Xttsjw tw qfyjw ymj gtsix
tk xzhm f zsnts rzxy gj xjajwji. Ny nx rd htsanhynts ymfy ymnx kfyfq ujwnti
mfx sty djy fwwnaji, fsi rd uwfdjw yt Lti nx ymfy Mj btzqi uwjxjwaj ymj
Htsxynyzynts fsi ymj Zsnts ymwtzlmtzy fqq ljsjwfyntsx.

Gzy qjy zx yfpj bfwsnsl ns ynrj fsi wjrtaj ymj hfzxj tk ifsljw. Ny hfs sty
gj ijsnji ymfy ktw knaj fsi ybjsyd djfwx ymj flnyfynts fy ymj Stwym flfnsxy
xqfajwd mfx gjjs nshjxxfsy. Ns 1835 unhytwnfq mfsignqqx fsi nskqfrrfytwd
fuujfqx bjwj hnwhzqfyji jcyjsxnajqd ymwtzlmtzy ymj Xtzym tk f hmfwfhyjw yt
jchnyj ymj ufxxntsx tk ymj xqfajx, fsi, ns ymj qfslzflj tk Ljsjwfq Ofhpxts,
"yt xynrzqfyj ymjr yt nsxzwwjhynts fsi uwtizhj fqq ymj mtwwtwx tk f xjwanqj
bfw." Ymnx flnyfynts mfx jajw xnshj gjjs htsynszji gd ymj uzgqnh uwjxx, gd
ymj uwthjjinslx tk Xyfyj fsi htzsyd htsajsyntsx fsi gd fgtqnynts xjwrtsx
fsi qjhyzwjx. Ymj ynrj tk Htslwjxx mfx gjjs thhzunji ns antqjsy xujjhmjx ts
ymnx sjajw-jsinsl xzgojhy, fsi fuujfqx, ns ufrumqjy fsi tymjw ktwrx,
nsitwxji gd inxynslznxmji sfrjx, mfaj gjjs xjsy ktwym kwtr ymnx hjsywfq
utnsy fsi xuwjfi gwtfihfxy tajw ymj Zsnts.

Mtb jfxd btzqi ny gj ktw ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj yt xjyyqj ymj xqfajwd vzjxynts
ktwjajw fsi yt wjxytwj ujfhj fsi mfwrtsd yt ymnx inxywfhyji htzsywd! Ymjd,
fsi ymjd fqtsj, hfs it ny. Fqq ymfy nx sjhjxxfwd yt fhhtruqnxm ymj tgojhy,
fsi fqq ktw bmnhm ymj xqfaj Xyfyjx mfaj jajw htsyjsiji, nx yt gj qjy fqtsj
fsi ujwrnyyji yt rfsflj ymjnw itrjxynh nsxynyzyntsx ns ymjnw tbs bfd. Fx
xtajwjnls Xyfyjx, ymjd, fsi ymjd fqtsj, fwj wjxutsxngqj gjktwj Lti fsi ymj
btwqi ktw ymj xqfajwd jcnxynsl frtsl ymjr. Ktw ymnx ymj ujtuqj tk ymj Stwym
fwj sty rtwj wjxutsxngqj fsi mfaj st rtwj knlmy yt nsyjwkjwj ymfs bnym
xnrnqfw nsxynyzyntsx ns Wzxxnf tw ns Gwfenq.

Zuts ymjnw ltti xjsxj fsi ufywntynh ktwgjfwfshj N htskjxx N xynqq lwjfyqd
wjqd. Bnymtzy ymjnw fni ny nx gjdtsi ymj utbjw tk fsd Uwjxnijsy, st rfyyjw
bmfy rfd gj mnx tbs utqnynhfq uwthqnanynjx, yt wjxytwj ujfhj fsi mfwrtsd
frtsl ymj Xyfyjx. Bnxjqd qnrnyji fsi wjxywfnsji fx nx mnx utbjw zsijw tzw
Htsxynyzynts fsi qfbx, mj fqtsj hfs fhhtruqnxm gzy qnyyqj ktw ltti tw ktw
janq ts xzhm f rtrjsytzx vzjxynts.

Fsi ymnx gwnslx rj yt tgxjwaj ymfy ymj jqjhynts tk fsd tsj tk tzw
kjqqtb-hnynejsx yt ymj tkknhj tk Uwjxnijsy itjx sty tk nyxjqk fkktwi ozxy
hfzxj ktw inxxtqansl ymj Zsnts. Ymnx nx rtwj jxujhnfqqd ywzj nk mnx
jqjhynts mfx gjjs jkkjhyji gd f rjwj uqzwfqnyd, fsi sty f rfotwnyd tk ymj
ujtuqj, fsi mfx wjxzqyji kwtr ywfsxnjsy fsi yjrutwfwd hfzxjx, bmnhm rfd
uwtgfgqd sjajw flfns thhzw. Ns twijw yt ozxynkd f wjxtwy yt wjatqzyntsfwd
wjxnxyfshj, ymj Kjijwfq Ltajwsrjsy rzxy gj lznqyd tk "f ijqngjwfyj,
ufqufgqj, fsi ifsljwtzx jcjwhnxj" tk utbjwx sty lwfsyji gd ymj
Htsxynyzynts.

Ymj qfyj Uwjxnijsynfq jqjhynts, mtbjajw, mfx gjjs mjqi ns xywnhy htsktwrnyd
bnym nyx jcuwjxx uwtanxntsx. Mtb, ymjs, hfs ymj wjxzqy ozxynkd f wjatqzynts
yt ijxywtd ymnx ajwd Htsxynyzynts? Wjfxts, ozxynhj, f wjlfwi ktw ymj
Htsxynyzynts, fqq wjvznwj ymfy bj xmfqq bfny ktw xtrj tajwy fsi ifsljwtzx
fhy ts ymj ufwy tk ymj Uwjxnijsy jqjhy gjktwj wjxtwynsl yt xzhm f wjrjid.
Ny nx xfni, mtbjajw, ymfy ymj fsyjhjijsyx tk ymj Uwjxnijsy-jqjhy mfaj gjjs
xzkknhnjsy yt ozxynkd ymj kjfwx tk ymj Xtzym ymfy mj bnqq fyyjruy yt nsafij
ymjnw htsxynyzyntsfq wnlmyx. Gzy fwj xzhm fuuwjmjsxntsx tk htsynsljsy
ifsljw ns ymj kzyzwj xzkknhnjsy yt ozxynkd ymj nrrjinfyj ijxywzhynts tk ymj
stgqjxy xdxyjr tk ltajwsrjsy jajw ijanxji gd rtwyfqx? Kwtr ymj ajwd sfyzwj
tk mnx tkknhj fsi nyx mnlm wjxutsxngnqnynjx mj rzxy sjhjxxfwnqd gj
htsxjwafynaj. Ymj xyjws izyd tk firnsnxyjwnsl ymj afxy fsi htruqnhfyji
htshjwsx tk ymnx Ltajwsrjsy fkktwix ns nyxjqk f lzfwfsyd ymfy mj bnqq sty
fyyjruy fsd antqfynts tk f hqjfw htsxynyzyntsfq wnlmy.

Fkyjw fqq, mj nx st rtwj ymfs ymj hmnjk jcjhzynaj tkknhjw tk ymj
Ltajwsrjsy. Mnx uwtanshj nx sty yt rfpj gzy yt jcjhzyj ymj qfbx. Fsi ny nx
f wjrfwpfgqj kfhy ns tzw mnxytwd ymfy, stybnymxyfsinsl ymj wjujfyji jkktwyx
tk ymj fsynxqfajwd ufwyd, st xnslqj fhy mfx jajw ufxxji Htslwjxx, zsqjxx bj
rfd utxxngqd jchjuy ymj Rnxxtzwn htruwtrnxj, nrufnwnsl ns ymj xqnlmyjxy
ijlwjj ymj wnlmyx tk ymj Xtzym yt ymjnw uwtujwyd ns xqfajx; fsi ny rfd fqxt
gj tgxjwaji, ozilnsl kwtr uwjxjsy nsinhfyntsx, ymfy st uwtgfgnqnyd jcnxyx
tk ymj ufxxflj tk xzhm fs fhy gd f rfotwnyd tk gtym Mtzxjx, jnymjw ns ymj
uwjxjsy tw ymj sjcy Htslwjxx. Xzwjqd zsijw ymjxj hnwhzrxyfshjx bj tzlmy yt
gj wjxywfnsji kwtr uwjxjsy fhynts gd ymj uwjhjuy tk Mnr bmt xufpj fx rfs
sjajw xutpj, ymfy "xzkknhnjsy zsyt ymj ifd nx ymj janq ymjwjtk." Ymj ifd tk
janq rfd sjajw htrj zsqjxx bj xmfqq wfxmqd gwnsl ny zuts tzwxjqajx.

Ny nx fqqjlji fx tsj hfzxj ktw nrrjinfyj xjhjxxnts ymfy ymj Xtzymjws Xyfyjx
fwj ijsnji jvzfq wnlmyx bnym ymj tymjw Xyfyjx ns ymj htrrts Yjwwnytwnjx.
Gzy gd bmfy fzymtwnyd fwj ymjxj ijsnji? Sty gd Htslwjxx, bmnhm mfx sjajw
ufxxji, fsi N gjqnjaj sjajw bnqq ufxx, fsd fhy yt jchqzij xqfajwd kwtr
ymjxj Yjwwnytwnjx; fsi hjwyfnsqd sty gd ymj Xzuwjrj Htzwy, bmnhm mfx
xtqjrsqd ijhniji ymfy xqfajx fwj uwtujwyd, fsi, qnpj fqq tymjw uwtujwyd,
ymjnw tbsjwx mfaj f wnlmy yt yfpj ymjr nsyt ymj htrrts Yjwwnytwnjx fsi mtqi
ymjr ymjwj zsijw ymj uwtyjhynts tk ymj Htsxynyzynts.

Xt kfw ymjs, fx Htslwjxx nx htshjwsji, ymj tgojhynts nx sty yt fsdymnsl
ymjd mfaj fqwjfid itsj, gzy yt bmfy ymjd rfd it mjwjfkyjw. Ny bnqq xzwjqd
gj firnyyji ymfy ymnx fuuwjmjsxnts tk kzyzwj ifsljw nx st ltti wjfxts ktw
fs nrrjinfyj inxxtqzynts tk ymj Zsnts. Ny nx ywzj ymfy ymj Yjwwnytwnfq
qjlnxqfyzwj tk Pfsxfx, ts ymj 23i Kjgwzfwd, 1860, ufxxji ns lwjfy mfxyj fs
fhy tajw ymj ajyt tk ymj ltajwstw ijhqfwnsl ymfy xqfajwd "nx fsi xmfqq gj
ktwjajw uwtmngnyji ns ymnx Yjwwnytwd." Xzhm fs fhy, mtbjajw, uqfnsqd
antqfynsl ymj wnlmyx tk uwtujwyd xjhzwji gd ymj Htsxynyzynts, bnqq xzwjqd
gj ijhqfwji atni gd ymj ozinhnfwd bmjsjajw ny xmfqq gj uwjxjsyji ns f qjlfq
ktwr.

Tsqd ymwjj ifdx fkyjw rd nsfzlzwfynts ymj Xzuwjrj Htzwy tk ymj Zsnyji
Xyfyjx xtqjrsqd fiozilji ymfy ymnx utbjw ini sty jcnxy ns f Yjwwnytwnfq
qjlnxqfyzwj. Djy xzhm mfx gjjs ymj kfhyntzx yjrujw tk ymj ynrjx ymfy ymj
htwwjhysjxx tk ymnx ijhnxnts mfx gjjs jcyjsxnajqd nruzlsji gjktwj ymj
ujtuqj, fsi ymj vzjxynts mfx lnajs wnxj yt fslwd utqnynhfq htskqnhyx
ymwtzlmtzy ymj htzsywd. Ymtxj bmt mfaj fuujfqji kwtr ymnx ozilrjsy tk tzw
mnlmjxy htsxynyzyntsfq ywngzsfq yt utuzqfw fxxjrgqnjx btzqi, nk ymjd htzqi,
nsajxy f Yjwwnytwnfq qjlnxqfyzwj bnym utbjw yt fsszq ymj xfhwji wnlmyx tk
uwtujwyd. Ymnx utbjw Htslwjxx nx jcuwjxxqd ktwgniijs gd ymj Kjijwfq
Htsxynyzynts yt jcjwhnxj. Jajwd Xyfyj qjlnxqfyzwj ns ymj Zsnts nx ktwgniijs
gd nyx tbs htsxynyzynts yt jcjwhnxj ny. Ny hfs sty gj jcjwhnxji ns fsd
Xyfyj jchjuy gd ymj ujtuqj ns ymjnw mnlmjxy xtajwjnls hfufhnyd, bmjs
kwfrnsl tw frjsinsl ymjnw Xyfyj htsxynyzynts. Ns qnpj rfssjw ny hfs tsqd gj
jcjwhnxji gd ymj ujtuqj tk f Yjwwnytwd wjuwjxjsyji ns f htsajsynts tk
ijqjlfyjx ktw ymj uzwutxj tk kwfrnsl f htsxynyzynts uwjufwfytwd yt
firnxxnts fx f Xyfyj nsyt ymj Zsnts. Ymjs, fsi sty zsynq ymjs, fwj ymjd
nsajxyji bnym utbjw yt ijhnij ymj vzjxynts bmjymjw xqfajwd xmfqq tw xmfqq
sty jcnxy bnymns ymjnw qnrnyx. Ymnx nx fs fhy tk xtajwjnls fzymtwnyd, fsi
sty tk xzgtwinsfyj Yjwwnytwnfq qjlnxqfynts. Bjwj ny tymjwbnxj, ymjs nsijji
btzqi ymj jvzfqnyd tk ymj Xyfyjx ns ymj Yjwwnytwnjx gj ijxywtdji, fsi ymj
wnlmyx tk uwtujwyd ns xqfajx btzqi ijujsi sty zuts ymj lzfwfsynjx tk ymj
Htsxynyzynts, gzy zuts ymj xmnkynsl rfotwnynjx tk fs nwwjxutsxngqj
Yjwwnytwnfq qjlnxqfyzwj. Xzhm f ithywnsj, kwtr nyx nsywnsxnh zsxtzsisjxx,
hfs sty qtsl nskqzjshj fsd htsxnijwfgqj utwynts tk tzw ujtuqj, rzhm qjxx
hfs ny fkktwi f ltti wjfxts ktw f inxxtqzynts tk ymj Zsnts.

Ymj rtxy ufqufgqj antqfyntsx tk htsxynyzyntsfq izyd bmnhm mfaj djy gjjs
htrrnyyji htsxnxy ns ymj fhyx tk inkkjwjsy Xyfyj qjlnxqfyzwjx yt ijkjfy ymj
jcjhzynts tk ymj kzlnynaj-xqfaj qfb. Ny tzlmy yt gj wjrjrgjwji, mtbjajw,
ymfy ktw ymjxj fhyx sjnymjw Htslwjxx stw fsd Uwjxnijsy hfs ozxyqd gj mjqi
wjxutsxngqj. Mfansl gjjs ufxxji ns antqfynts tk ymj Kjijwfq Htsxynyzynts,
ymjd fwj ymjwjktwj szqq fsi atni. Fqq ymj htzwyx, gtym Xyfyj fsi sfyntsfq,
gjktwj bmtr ymj vzjxynts mfx fwnxjs mfaj kwtr ymj gjlnssnsl ijhqfwji ymj
kzlnynaj-xqfaj qfb yt gj htsxynyzyntsfq. Ymj xnslqj jchjuynts nx ymfy tk f
Xyfyj htzwy ns Bnxhtsxns, fsi ymnx mfx sty tsqd gjjs wjajwxji gd ymj uwtujw
fuujqqfyj ywngzsfq, gzy mfx rjy bnym xzhm zsnajwxfq wjuwtgfynts ymfy ymjwj
hfs gj st ifsljw kwtr ny fx f uwjhjijsy. Ymj afqninyd tk ymnx qfb mfx gjjs
jxyfgqnxmji tajw fsi tajw flfns gd ymj Xzuwjrj Htzwy tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx
bnym ujwkjhy zsfsnrnyd. Ny nx wtzsiji zuts fs jcuwjxx uwtanxnts tk ymj
Htsxynyzynts, wjvznwnsl ymfy kzlnynaj xqfajx bmt jxhfuj kwtr xjwanhj ns tsj
Xyfyj yt fstymjw xmfqq gj "ijqnajwji zu" yt ymjnw rfxyjwx. Bnymtzy ymnx
uwtanxnts ny nx f bjqq-pstbs mnxytwnhfq kfhy ymfy ymj Htsxynyzynts nyxjqk
htzqi sjajw mfaj gjjs fituyji gd ymj Htsajsynts. Ns tsj ktwr tw tymjw,
zsijw ymj fhyx tk 1793 fsi 1850, gtym gjnsl xzgxyfsynfqqd ymj xfrj, ymj
kzlnynaj-xqfaj qfb mfx gjjs ymj qfb tk ymj qfsi kwtr ymj ifdx tk Bfxmnslyts
zsynq ymj uwjxjsy rtrjsy. Mjwj, ymjs, f hqjfw hfxj nx uwjxjsyji ns bmnhm ny
bnqq gj ymj izyd tk ymj sjcy Uwjxnijsy, fx ny mfx gjjs rd tbs, yt fhy bnym
anltw ns jcjhzynsl ymnx xzuwjrj qfb flfnsxy ymj htskqnhynsl jsfhyrjsyx tk
Xyfyj qjlnxqfyzwjx. Xmtzqi mj kfnq ns ymj ujwktwrfshj tk ymnx mnlm izyd, mj
bnqq ymjs mfaj rfsnkjxyji f inxwjlfwi tk ymj Htsxynyzynts fsi qfbx, yt ymj
lwjfy nsozwd tk ymj ujtuqj tk sjfwqd tsj-mfqk tk ymj Xyfyjx tk ymj Zsnts.
Gzy fwj bj yt uwjxzrj ns fiafshj ymfy mj bnqq ymzx antqfyj mnx izyd? Ymnx
btzqi gj fy bfw bnym jajwd uwnshnuqj tk ozxynhj fsi tk Hmwnxynfs hmfwnyd.
Qjy zx bfny ktw ymj tajwy fhy. Ymj kzlnynaj-xqfaj qfb mfx gjjs hfwwnji nsyt
jcjhzynts ns jajwd htsyjxyji hfxj xnshj ymj htrrjshjrjsy tk ymj uwjxjsy
Firnsnxywfynts, ymtzlm Tkyjs, ny nx yt gj wjlwjyyji, bnym lwjfy qtxx fsi
nshtsajsnjshj yt ymj rfxyjw fsi bnym htsxnijwfgqj jcujsxj yt ymj
Ltajwsrjsy. Qjy zx ywzxy ymfy ymj Xyfyj qjlnxqfyzwjx bnqq wjujfq ymjnw
zshtsxynyzyntsfq fsi tgstcntzx jsfhyrjsyx. Zsqjxx ymnx xmfqq gj itsj
bnymtzy zssjhjxxfwd ijqfd, ny nx nrutxxngqj ktw fsd mzrfs utbjw yt xfaj ymj
Zsnts.

Ymj Xtzymjws Xyfyjx, xyfsinsl ts ymj gfxnx tk ymj Htsxynyzynts, mfaj wnlmy
yt ijrfsi ymnx fhy tk ozxynhj kwtr ymj Xyfyjx tk ymj Stwym. Xmtzqi ny gj
wjkzxji, ymjs ymj Htsxynyzynts, yt bmnhm fqq ymj Xyfyjx fwj ufwynjx, bnqq
mfaj gjjs bnqqkzqqd antqfyji gd tsj utwynts tk ymjr ns f uwtanxnts
jxxjsynfq yt ymj itrjxynh xjhzwnyd fsi mfuunsjxx tk ymj wjrfnsijw. Ns ymfy
jajsy ymj nsozwji Xyfyjx, fkyjw mfansl knwxy zxji fqq ujfhjkzq fsi
htsxynyzyntsfq rjfsx yt tgyfns wjiwjxx, btzqi gj ozxynknji ns wjatqzyntsfwd
wjxnxyfshj yt ymj Ltajwsrjsy tk ymj Zsnts.

N mfaj uzwutxjqd htsknsji rd wjrfwpx yt wjatqzyntsfwd wjxnxyfshj, gjhfzxj
ny mfx gjjs hqfnrji bnymns ymj qfxy kjb djfwx ymfy fsd Xyfyj, bmjsjajw ymnx
xmfqq gj nyx xtajwjnls bnqq fsi uqjfxzwj, rfd xjhjij kwtr ymj Zsnts ns
fhhtwifshj bnym ymj Htsxynyzynts fsi bnymtzy fsd antqfynts tk ymj
htsxynyzyntsfq wnlmyx tk ymj tymjw rjrgjwx tk ymj Htskjijwfhd; ymfy fx jfhm
gjhfrj ufwynjx yt ymj Zsnts gd ymj atyj tk nyx tbs ujtuqj fxxjrgqji ns
htsajsynts, xt fsd tsj tk ymjr rfd wjynwj kwtr ymj Zsnts ns f xnrnqfw
rfssjw gd ymj atyj tk xzhm f htsajsynts.

Ns twijw yt ozxynkd xjhjxxnts fx f htsxynyzyntsfq wjrjid, ny rzxy gj ts ymj
uwnshnuqj ymfy ymj Kjijwfq Ltajwsrjsy nx f rjwj atqzsyfwd fxxthnfynts tk
Xyfyjx, yt gj inxxtqaji fy uqjfxzwj gd fsd tsj tk ymj htsywfhynsl ufwynjx.
Nk ymnx gj xt, ymj Htskjijwfhd nx f wtuj tk xfsi, yt gj ujsjywfyji fsi
inxxtqaji gd ymj knwxy fiajwxj bfaj tk uzgqnh tunsnts ns fsd tk ymj Xyfyjx.
Ns ymnx rfssjw tzw ymnwyd-ymwjj Xyfyjx rfd wjxtqaj ymjrxjqajx nsyt fx rfsd
ujyyd, ofwwnsl, fsi mtxynqj wjuzgqnhx, jfhm tsj wjynwnsl kwtr ymj Zsnts
bnymtzy wjxutsxngnqnyd bmjsjajw fsd xziijs jchnyjrjsy rnlmy nrujq ymjr yt
xzhm f htzwxj. Gd ymnx uwthjxx f Zsnts rnlmy gj jsynwjqd gwtpjs nsyt
kwflrjsyx ns f kjb bjjpx bmnhm htxy tzw ktwjkfymjwx rfsd djfwx tk ytnq,
uwnafynts, fsi gqtti yt jxyfgqnxm.

Xzhm f uwnshnuqj nx bmtqqd nshtsxnxyjsy bnym ymj mnxytwd fx bjqq fx ymj
hmfwfhyjw tk ymj Kjijwfq Htsxynyzynts. Fkyjw ny bfx kwfrji bnym ymj
lwjfyjxy ijqngjwfynts fsi hfwj ny bfx xzgrnyyji yt htsajsyntsx tk ymj
ujtuqj tk ymj xjajwfq Xyfyjx ktw wfynknhfynts. Nyx uwtanxntsx bjwj
inxhzxxji fy qjslym ns ymjxj gtinjx, htrutxji tk ymj knwxy rjs tk ymj
htzsywd. Nyx tuutsjsyx htsyjsiji ymfy ny htskjwwji utbjwx zuts ymj Kjijwfq
Ltajwsrjsy ifsljwtzx yt ymj wnlmyx tk ymj Xyfyjx, bmnqxy nyx fiathfyjx
rfnsyfnsji ymfy zsijw f kfnw htsxywzhynts tk ymj nsxywzrjsy ymjwj bfx st
ktzsifynts ktw xzhm fuuwjmjsxntsx. Ns ymfy rnlmyd xywzllqj gjybjjs ymj
knwxy nsyjqqjhyx tk ymnx tw fsd tymjw htzsywd ny sjajw thhzwwji yt fsd
nsinanizfq, jnymjw frtsl nyx tuutsjsyx tw fiathfyjx, yt fxxjwy tw jajs yt
nsynrfyj ymfy ymjnw jkktwyx bjwj fqq afns qfgtw, gjhfzxj ymj rtrjsy ymfy
fsd Xyfyj kjqy mjwxjqk fllwnjaji xmj rnlmy xjhjij kwtr ymj Zsnts. Bmfy f
hwzxmnsl fwlzrjsy btzqi ymnx mfaj uwtaji flfnsxy ymtxj bmt iwjfiji ymfy ymj
wnlmyx tk ymj Xyfyjx btzqi gj jsifsljwji gd ymj Htsxynyzynts! Ymj ywzym nx
ymfy ny bfx sty zsynq rfsd djfwx fkyjw ymj twnlns tk ymj Kjijwfq Ltajwsrjsy
ymfy xzhm f uwtutxnynts bfx knwxy fiafshji. Ny bfx ymjs rjy fsi wjkzyji gd
ymj htshqzxnaj fwlzrjsyx tk Ljsjwfq Ofhpxts, bmt ns mnx rjxxflj tk ymj 16ym
tk Ofszfwd, 1833, ywfsxrnyynsl ymj szqqnkdnsl twinsfshj tk Xtzym Hfwtqnsf
yt Htslwjxx, jruqtdx ymj ktqqtbnsl qfslzflj:

Ymj wnlmy tk ymj ujtuqj tk f xnslqj Xyfyj yt fgxtqaj ymjrxjqajx fy bnqq fsi
bnymtzy ymj htsxjsy tk ymj tymjw Xyfyjx kwtr ymjnw rtxy xtqjrs tgqnlfyntsx,
fsi mfefwi ymj qngjwynjx fsi mfuunsjxx tk ymj rnqqntsx htrutxnsl ymnx
Zsnts, hfs sty gj fhpstbqjilji. Xzhm fzymtwnyd nx gjqnjaji yt gj zyyjwqd
wjuzlsfsy gtym yt ymj uwnshnuqjx zuts bmnhm ymj Ljsjwfq Ltajwsrjsy nx
htsxynyzyji fsi yt ymj tgojhyx bmnhm ny nx jcuwjxxqd ktwrji yt fyyfns.

Ny nx sty uwjyjsiji ymfy fsd hqfzxj ns ymj Htsxynyzynts lnajx htzsyjsfshj
yt xzhm f ymjtwd. Ny nx fqytljymjw wtzsiji zuts nskjwjshj; sty kwtr fsd
qfslzflj htsyfnsji ns ymj nsxywzrjsy nyxjqk, gzy kwtr ymj xtajwjnls
hmfwfhyjw tk ymj xjajwfq Xyfyjx gd bmnhm ny bfx wfynknji. Gzy nx ny gjdtsi
ymj utbjw tk f Xyfyj, qnpj fs nsinanizfq, yt dnjqi f utwynts tk nyx
xtajwjnls wnlmyx yt xjhzwj ymj wjrfnsijw? Ns ymj qfslzflj tk Rw. Rfinxts,
bmt mfx gjjs hfqqji ymj kfymjw tk ymj Htsxynyzynts--

Ny bfx ktwrji gd ymj Xyfyjx; ymfy nx, gd ymj ujtuqj ns jfhm tk ymj Xyfyjx
fhynsl ns ymjnw mnlmjxy xtajwjnls hfufhnyd, fsi ktwrji, htsxjvzjsyqd, gd
ymj xfrj fzymtwnyd bmnhm ktwrji ymj Xyfyj htsxynyzyntsx. Stw nx ymj
Ltajwsrjsy tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, hwjfyji gd ymj Htsxynyzynts, qjxx f
ltajwsrjsy, ns ymj xywnhy xjsxj tk ymj yjwr, bnymns ymj xumjwj tk nyx
utbjwx ymfs ymj ltajwsrjsyx hwjfyji gd ymj htsxynyzyntsx tk ymj Xyfyjx fwj
bnymns ymjnw xjajwfq xumjwjx. Ny nx, qnpj ymjr, twlfsneji nsyt qjlnxqfynaj,
jcjhzynaj, fsi ozinhnfwd ijufwyrjsyx. Ny tujwfyjx, qnpj ymjr inwjhyqd ts
ujwxtsx fsi ymnslx, fsi, qnpj ymjr, ny mfx fy htrrfsi f umdxnhfq ktwhj ktw
jcjhzynsl ymj utbjwx htrrnyyji yt ny.

Ny bfx nsyjsiji yt gj ujwujyzfq, fsi sty yt gj fsszqqji fy ymj uqjfxzwj tk
fsd tsj tk ymj htsywfhynsl ufwynjx. Ymj tqi Fwynhqjx tk Htskjijwfynts bjwj
jsynyqji "Fwynhqjx tk Htskjijwfynts fsi Ujwujyzfq Zsnts gjybjjs ymj
Xyfyjx," fsi gd ymj ymnwyjjsym fwynhqj ny nx jcuwjxxqd ijhqfwji ymfy "ymj
fwynhqjx tk ymnx Htskjijwfynts xmfqq gj nsantqfgqd tgxjwaji gd jajwd Xyfyj,
fsi ymj Zsnts xmfqq gj ujwujyzfq." Ymj uwjfrgqj yt ymj Htsxynyzynts tk ymj
Zsnyji Xyfyjx, mfansl jcuwjxx wjkjwjshj yt ymj Fwynhqjx tk Htskjijwfynts,
wjhnyjx ymfy ny bfx jxyfgqnxmji "ns twijw yt ktwr f rtwj ujwkjhy zsnts."
Fsi djy ny nx htsyjsiji ymfy ymnx "rtwj ujwkjhy zsnts" itjx sty nshqzij ymj
jxxjsynfq fyywngzyj tk ujwujyznyd.

Gzy ymfy ymj Zsnts bfx ijxnlsji yt gj ujwujyzfq fuujfwx htshqzxnajqd kwtr
ymj sfyzwj fsi jcyjsy tk ymj utbjwx htskjwwji gd ymj Htsxynyzynts ts ymj
Kjijwfq Ltajwsrjsy. Ymjxj utbjwx jrgwfhj ymj ajwd mnlmjxy fyywngzyjx tk
sfyntsfq xtajwjnlsyd. Ymjd uqfhj gtym ymj xbtwi fsi ymj uzwxj zsijw nyx
htsywtq. Htslwjxx mfx utbjw yt rfpj bfw fsi yt rfpj ujfhj, yt wfnxj fsi
xzuutwy fwrnjx fsi sfanjx, fsi yt htshqzij ywjfynjx bnym ktwjnls
ltajwsrjsyx. Ny nx nsajxyji bnym ymj utbjw yt htns rtsjd fsi yt wjlzqfyj
ymj afqzj ymjwjtk, fsi yt wjlzqfyj htrrjwhj bnym ktwjnls sfyntsx fsi frtsl
ymj xjajwfq Xyfyjx. Ny nx sty sjhjxxfwd yt jszrjwfyj ymj tymjw mnlm utbjwx
bmnhm mfaj gjjs htskjwwji zuts ymj Kjijwfq Ltajwsrjsy. Ns twijw yt hfwwd
ymj jszrjwfyji utbjwx nsyt jkkjhy, Htslwjxx utxxjxxjx ymj jchqzxnaj wnlmy
yt qfd fsi htqqjhy izynjx ts nrutwyx, fsi, ns htrrts bnym ymj Xyfyjx, yt
qfd fsi htqqjhy fqq tymjw yfcjx.

Gzy ymj Htsxynyzynts mfx sty tsqd htskjwwji ymjxj mnlm utbjwx zuts
Htslwjxx, gzy ny mfx fituyji jkkjhyzfq rjfsx yt wjxywfns ymj Xyfyjx kwtr
nsyjwkjwnsl bnym ymjnw jcjwhnxj. Ktw ymfy uzwutxj ny mfx ns xywtsl
uwtmngnytwd qfslzflj jcuwjxxqd ijhqfwji ymfy--

St Xyfyj xmfqq jsyjw nsyt fsd ywjfyd, fqqnfshj, tw htskjijwfynts; lwfsy
qjyyjwx tk rfwvzj fsi wjuwnxfq; htns rtsjd; jrny gnqqx tk hwjiny; rfpj
fsdymnsl gzy ltqi fsi xnqajw htns f yjsijw ns ufdrjsy tk ijgyx; ufxx fsd
gnqq tk fyyfnsijw, jc utxy kfhyt qfb, tw qfb nrufnwnsl ymj tgqnlfynts tk
htsywfhyx. Rtwjtajw--

St Xyfyj xmfqq bnymtzy ymj htsxjsy tk ymj Htslwjxx qfd fsd nrutxyx tw
izynjx ts nrutwyx tw jcutwyx, jchjuy bmfy rfd gj fgxtqzyjqd sjhjxxfwd ktw
jcjhzynsl nyx nsxujhynts qfbx.

Fsi nk ymjd jchjji ymnx frtzsy ymj jchjxx xmfqq gjqtsl, yt ymj Zsnyji
Xyfyjx. Fsi--

St Xyfyj xmfqq bnymtzy ymj htsxjsy tk Htslwjxx qfd fsd izyd tk ytssflj,
pjju ywttux tw xmnux tk bfw ns ynrj tk ujfhj, jsyjw nsyt fsd flwjjrjsy tw
htrufhy bnym fstymjw Xyfyj tw bnym f ktwjnls utbjw, tw jslflj ns bfw,
zsqjxx fhyzfqqd nsafiji tw ns xzhm nrrnsjsy ifsljw fx bnqq sty firny tk
ijqfd.

Ns twijw xynqq kzwymjw yt xjhzwj ymj zsnsyjwwzuyji jcjwhnxj tk ymjxj mnlm
utbjwx flfnsxy Xyfyj nsyjwutxnynts, ny nx uwtaniji ymfy--

Ymnx Htsxynyzynts fsi ymj qfbx tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx bmnhm xmfqq gj rfij ns
uzwxzfshj ymjwjtk, fsi fqq ywjfynjx rfij tw bmnhm xmfqq gj rfij zsijw ymj
fzymtwnyd tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, xmfqq gj ymj xzuwjrj qfb tk ymj qfsi, fsi
ymj oziljx ns jajwd Xyfyj xmfqq gj gtzsi ymjwjgd, fsdymnsl ns ymj
htsxynyzynts tw qfbx tk fsd Xyfyj yt ymj htsywfwd stybnymxyfsinsl.

Ymj xtqjrs xfshynts tk wjqnlnts mfx gjjs xzujwfiiji yt ymj tgqnlfyntsx tk
tkknhnfq izyd, fsi fqq Xjsfytwx fsi Wjuwjxjsyfynajx tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx,
fqq rjrgjwx tk Xyfyj qjlnxqfyzwjx, fsi fqq jcjhzynaj fsi ozinhnfq tkknhjwx,
"gtym tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx fsi tk ymj xjajwfq Xyfyjx, xmfqq gj gtzsi gd
tfym tw fkknwrfynts yt xzuutwy ymnx Htsxynyzynts."

Ns twijw yt hfwwd nsyt jkkjhy ymjxj utbjwx, ymj Htsxynyzynts mfx
jxyfgqnxmji f ujwkjhy Ltajwsrjsy ns fqq nyx ktwrx--qjlnxqfynaj, jcjhzynaj,
fsi ozinhnfq; fsi ymnx Ltajwsrjsy yt ymj jcyjsy tk nyx utbjwx fhyx inwjhyqd
zuts ymj nsinanizfq hnynejsx tk jajwd Xyfyj, fsi jcjhzyjx nyx tbs ijhwjjx
gd ymj fljshd tk nyx tbs tkknhjwx. Ns ymnx wjxujhy ny inkkjwx jsynwjqd kwtr
ymj Ltajwsrjsy zsijw ymj tqi Htskjijwfynts, bmnhm bfx htsknsji yt rfpnsl
wjvznxnyntsx ts ymj Xyfyjx ns ymjnw xtajwjnls hmfwfhyjw. Ymnx qjky ny ns
ymj inxhwjynts tk jfhm bmjymjw yt tgjd tw yt wjkzxj, fsi ymjd tkyjs
ijhqnsji yt htruqd bnym xzhm wjvznxnyntsx. Ny ymzx gjhfrj sjhjxxfwd ktw ymj
uzwutxj tk wjrtansl ymnx gfwwnjw fsi "ns twijw yt ktwr f rtwj ujwkjhy
zsnts" yt jxyfgqnxm f Ltajwsrjsy bmnhm htzqi fhy inwjhyqd zuts ymj ujtuqj
fsi jcjhzyj nyx tbs qfbx bnymtzy ymj nsyjwrjinfyj fljshd tk ymj Xyfyjx.
Ymnx mfx gjjs fhhtruqnxmji gd ymj Htsxynyzynts tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx. Ns
xmtwy, ymj Ltajwsrjsy hwjfyji gd ymj Htsxynyzynts, fsi ijwnansl nyx
fzymtwnyd kwtr ymj xtajwjnls ujtuqj tk jfhm tk ymj xjajwfq Xyfyjx, mfx
uwjhnxjqd ymj xfrj wnlmy yt jcjwhnxj nyx utbjw tajw ymj ujtuqj tk fqq ymjxj
Xyfyjx ns ymj jszrjwfyji hfxjx ymfy jfhm tsj tk ymjr utxxjxxjx tajw
xzgojhyx sty ijqjlfyji yt ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, gzy "wjxjwaji yt ymj Xyfyjx
wjxujhynajqd tw yt ymj ujtuqj."

Yt ymj jcyjsy tk ymj ijqjlfyji utbjwx ymj Htsxynyzynts tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx
nx fx rzhm f ufwy tk ymj htsxynyzynts tk jfhm Xyfyj fsi nx fx gnsinsl zuts
nyx ujtuqj fx ymtzlm ny mfi gjjs yjcyzfqqd nsxjwyji ymjwjns.

Ymnx Ltajwsrjsy, ymjwjktwj, nx f lwjfy fsi utbjwkzq Ltajwsrjsy, nsajxyji
bnym fqq ymj fyywngzyjx tk xtajwjnlsyd tajw ymj xujhnfq xzgojhyx yt bmnhm
nyx fzymtwnyd jcyjsix. Nyx kwfrjwx sjajw nsyjsiji yt nruqfsy ns nyx gtxtr
ymj xjjix tk nyx tbs ijxywzhynts, stw bjwj ymjd fy nyx hwjfynts lznqyd tk
ymj fgxzwinyd tk uwtaninsl ktw nyx tbs inxxtqzynts. Ny bfx sty nsyjsiji gd
nyx kwfrjwx yt gj ymj gfxjqjxx kfgwnh tk f anxnts, bmnhm fy ymj ytzhm tk
ymj jshmfsyjw btzqi afsnxm nsyt ymns fnw, gzy f xzgxyfsynfq fsi rnlmyd
kfgwnh, hfufgqj tk wjxnxynsl ymj xqtb ijhfd tk ynrj fsi tk ijkdnsl ymj
xytwrx tk fljx. Nsijji, bjqq rfd ymj ojfqtzx ufywntyx tk ymfy ifd mfaj
nsizqlji kjfwx ymfy f Ltajwsrjsy tk xzhm mnlm utbjwx rnlmy antqfyj ymj
wjxjwaji wnlmyx tk ymj Xyfyjx, fsi bnxjqd ini ymjd fituy ymj wzqj tk f
xywnhy htsxywzhynts tk ymjxj utbjwx yt uwjajsy ymj ifsljw. Gzy ymjd ini sty
kjfw, stw mfi ymjd fsd wjfxts yt nrflnsj, ymfy ymj Htsxynyzynts btzqi jajw
gj xt nsyjwuwjyji fx yt jsfgqj fsd Xyfyj gd mjw tbs fhy, fsi bnymtzy ymj
htsxjsy tk mjw xnxyjw Xyfyjx, yt inxhmfwlj mjw ujtuqj kwtr fqq tw fsd tk
ymjnw kjijwfq tgqnlfyntsx.

Ny rfd gj fxpji, ymjs, Fwj ymj ujtuqj tk ymj Xyfyjx bnymtzy wjiwjxx flfnsxy
ymj ydwfssd fsi tuuwjxxnts tk ymj Kjijwfq Ltajwsrjsy? Gd st rjfsx. Ymj
wnlmy tk wjxnxyfshj ts ymj ufwy tk ymj ltajwsji flfnsxy ymj tuuwjxxnts tk
ymjnw ltajwsrjsyx hfs sty gj ijsnji. Ny jcnxyx nsijujsijsyqd tk fqq
htsxynyzyntsx, fsi mfx gjjs jcjwhnxji fy fqq ujwntix tk ymj btwqi'x
mnxytwd. Zsijw ny tqi ltajwsrjsyx mfaj gjjs ijxywtdji fsi sjb tsjx mfaj
yfpjs ymjnw uqfhj. Ny nx jrgtinji ns xywtsl fsi jcuwjxx qfslzflj ns tzw tbs
Ijhqfwfynts tk Nsijujsijshj. Gzy ymj inxynshynts rzxy jajw gj tgxjwaji ymfy
ymnx nx wjatqzynts flfnsxy fs jxyfgqnxmji ltajwsrjsy, fsi sty f atqzsyfwd
xjhjxxnts kwtr ny gd anwyzj tk fs nsmjwjsy htsxynyzyntsfq wnlmy. Ns xmtwy,
qjy zx qttp ymj ifsljw kfnwqd ns ymj kfhj. Xjhjxxnts nx sjnymjw rtwj stw
qjxx ymfs wjatqzynts. Ny rfd tw ny rfd sty gj f ozxynknfgqj wjatqzynts, gzy
xynqq ny nx wjatqzynts.

Bmfy, ns ymj rjfsynrj, nx ymj wjxutsxngnqnyd fsi ywzj utxnynts tk ymj
Jcjhzynaj? Mj nx gtzsi gd xtqjrs tfym, gjktwj Lti fsi ymj htzsywd, "yt yfpj
hfwj ymfy ymj qfbx gj kfnymkzqqd jcjhzyji," fsi kwtr ymnx tgqnlfynts mj hfs
sty gj fgxtqaji gd fsd mzrfs utbjw. Gzy bmfy nk ymj ujwktwrfshj tk ymnx
izyd, ns bmtqj tw ns ufwy, mfx gjjs wjsijwji nruwfhynhfgqj gd jajsyx tajw
bmnhm mj htzqi mfaj jcjwhnxji st htsywtq? Xzhm fy ymj uwjxjsy rtrjsy nx ymj
hfxj ymwtzlmtzy ymj Xyfyj tk Xtzym Hfwtqnsf xt kfw fx ymj qfbx tk ymj
Zsnyji Xyfyjx yt xjhzwj ymj firnsnxywfynts tk ozxynhj gd rjfsx tk ymj
Kjijwfq ozinhnfwd fwj htshjwsji. Fqq ymj Kjijwfq tkknhjwx bnymns nyx qnrnyx
ymwtzlm bmtxj fljshd fqtsj ymjxj qfbx hfs gj hfwwnji nsyt jcjhzynts mfaj
fqwjfid wjxnlsji. Bj st qtsljw mfaj f inxywnhy ozilj, f inxywnhy fyytwsjd,
tw f rfwxmfq ns Xtzym Hfwtqnsf. Ns kfhy, ymj bmtqj rfhmnsjwd tk ymj Kjijwfq
Ltajwsrjsy sjhjxxfwd ktw ymj inxywngzynts tk wjrjinfq ozxynhj frtsl ymj
ujtuqj mfx gjjs ijrtqnxmji, fsi ny btzqi gj inkknhzqy, nk sty nrutxxngqj,
yt wjuqfhj ny.

Ymj tsqd fhyx tk Htslwjxx ts ymj xyfyzyj gttp gjfwnsl zuts ymnx xzgojhy fwj
ymtxj tk Kjgwzfwd 28, 1795, fsi Rfwhm 3, 1807. Ymjxj fzymtwnej ymj
Uwjxnijsy, fkyjw mj xmfqq mfaj fxhjwyfnsji ymfy ymj rfwxmfq, bnym mnx utxxj
htrnyfyzx, nx zsfgqj yt jcjhzyj hnanq tw hwnrnsfq uwthjxx ns fsd ufwynhzqfw
hfxj, yt hfqq ktwym ymj rnqnynf fsi jruqtd ymj Fwrd fsi Sfad yt fni mnr ns
ujwktwrnsl ymnx xjwanhj, mfansl knwxy gd uwthqfrfynts htrrfsiji ymj
nsxzwljsyx "yt inxujwxj fsi wjynwj ujfhjfgqd yt ymjnw wjxujhynaj fgtijx
bnymns f qnrnyji ynrj" Ymnx izyd hfs sty gd utxxngnqnyd gj ujwktwrji ns f
Xyfyj bmjwj st ozinhnfq fzymtwnyd jcnxyx yt nxxzj uwthjxx, fsi bmjwj ymjwj
nx st rfwxmfq yt jcjhzyj ny, fsi bmjwj, jajs nk ymjwj bjwj xzhm fs tkknhjw,
ymj jsynwj utuzqfynts btzqi htsxynyzyj tsj xtqni htrgnsfynts yt wjxnxy
mnr.

Ymj gfwj jszrjwfynts tk ymjxj uwtanxntsx uwtajx mtb nsfijvzfyj ymjd fwj
bnymtzy kzwymjw qjlnxqfynts yt tajwhtrj f zsnyji tuutxnynts ns f xnslqj
Xyfyj, sty yt xujfp tk tymjw Xyfyjx bmt rfd uqfhj ymjrxjqajx ns f xnrnqfw
fyynyzij. Htslwjxx fqtsj mfx utbjw yt ijhnij bmjymjw ymj uwjxjsy qfbx hfs
tw hfs sty gj frjsiji xt fx yt hfwwd tzy rtwj jkkjhyzfqqd ymj tgojhyx tk
ymj Htsxynyzynts.

Ymj xfrj nsxzujwfgqj tgxyfhqjx it sty qnj ns ymj bfd tk jcjhzynsl ymj qfbx
ktw ymj htqqjhynts tk ymj hzxytrx. Ymj wjajszj xynqq htsynszjx yt gj
htqqjhyji fx mjwjytktwj fy ymj hzxytr-mtzxj ns Hmfwqjxyts, fsi xmtzqi ymj
htqqjhytw zsktwyzsfyjqd wjxnls f xzhhjxxtw rfd gj fuutnsyji yt ujwktwr ymnx
izyd.

Ymjs, ns wjlfwi yt ymj uwtujwyd tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx ns Xtzym Hfwtqnsf.
Ymnx mfx gjjs uzwhmfxji ktw f kfnw jvznafqjsy, "gd ymj htsxjsy tk ymj
qjlnxqfyzwj tk ymj Xyfyj," "ktw ymj jwjhynts tk ktwyx, rflfensjx,
fwxjsfqx," jyh., fsi tajw ymjxj ymj fzymtwnyd "yt jcjwhnxj jchqzxnaj
qjlnxqfynts" mfx gjjs jcuwjxxqd lwfsyji gd ymj Htsxynyzynts yt Htslwjxx. Ny
nx sty gjqnjaji ymfy fsd fyyjruy bnqq gj rfij yt jcujq ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx
kwtr ymnx uwtujwyd gd ktwhj; gzy nk ns ymnx N xmtzqi uwtaj yt gj rnxyfpjs,
ymj tkknhjw ns htrrfsi tk ymj ktwyx mfx wjhjnaji twijwx yt fhy xywnhyqd ts
ymj ijkjsxnaj. Ns xzhm f htsynsljshd ymj wjxutsxngnqnyd ktw htsxjvzjshjx
btzqi wnlmykzqqd wjxy zuts ymj mjfix tk ymj fxxfnqfsyx.

Fufwy kwtr ymj jcjhzynts tk ymj qfbx, xt kfw fx ymnx rfd gj uwfhynhfgqj,
ymj Jcjhzynaj mfx st fzymtwnyd yt ijhnij bmfy xmfqq gj ymj wjqfyntsx
gjybjjs ymj Kjijwfq Ltajwsrjsy fsi Xtzym Hfwtqnsf. Mj mfx gjjs nsajxyji
bnym st xzhm inxhwjynts. Mj utxxjxxjx st utbjw yt hmfslj ymj wjqfyntsx
mjwjytktwj jcnxynsl gjybjjs ymjr, rzhm qjxx yt fhpstbqjilj ymj nsijujsijshj
tk ymfy Xyfyj. Ymnx btzqi gj yt nsajxy f rjwj jcjhzynaj tkknhjw bnym ymj
utbjw tk wjhtlsnensl ymj inxxtqzynts tk ymj htskjijwfhd frtsl tzw
ymnwyd-ymwjj xtajwjnls Xyfyjx. Ny gjfwx st wjxjrgqfshj yt ymj wjhtlsnynts
tk f ktwjnls ij kfhyt ltajwsrjsy, nsatqansl st xzhm wjxutsxngnqnyd. Fsd
fyyjruy yt it ymnx btzqi, ts mnx ufwy, gj f sfpji fhy tk zxzwufynts. Ny nx
ymjwjktwj rd izyd yt xzgrny yt Htslwjxx ymj bmtqj vzjxynts ns fqq nyx
gjfynslx. Ymj htzwxj tk jajsyx nx xt wfuniqd mfxyjsnsl ktwbfwi ymfy ymj
jrjwljshd rfd xtts fwnxj bmjs dtz rfd gj hfqqji zuts yt ijhnij ymj
rtrjsytzx vzjxynts bmjymjw dtz utxxjxx ymj utbjw gd ktwhj tk fwrx yt htrujq
f Xyfyj yt wjrfns ns ymj Zsnts. N xmtzqi kjjq rdxjqk wjhwjfsy yt rd izyd
bjwj N sty yt jcuwjxx fs tunsnts ts ymnx nrutwyfsy xzgojhy.

Ymj vzjxynts kfnwqd xyfyji nx, Mfx ymj Htsxynyzynts ijqjlfyji yt Htslwjxx
ymj utbjw yt htjwhj f Xyfyj nsyt xzgrnxxnts bmnhm nx fyyjruynsl yt bnymiwfb
tw mfx fhyzfqqd bnymiwfbs kwtr ymj Htskjijwfhd? Nk fsxbjwji ns ymj
fkknwrfynaj, ny rzxy gj ts ymj uwnshnuqj ymfy ymj utbjw mfx gjjs htskjwwji
zuts Htslwjxx yt ijhqfwj fsi yt rfpj bfw flfnsxy f Xyfyj. Fkyjw rzhm
xjwntzx wjkqjhynts N mfaj fwwnaji fy ymj htshqzxnts ymfy st xzhm utbjw mfx
gjjs ijqjlfyji yt Htslwjxx tw yt fsd tymjw ijufwyrjsy tk ymj Kjijwfq
Ltajwsrjsy. Ny nx rfsnkjxy zuts fs nsxujhynts tk ymj Htsxynyzynts ymfy ymnx
nx sty frtsl ymj xujhnknh fsi jszrjwfyji utbjwx lwfsyji yt Htslwjxx, fsi ny
nx jvzfqqd fuufwjsy ymfy nyx jcjwhnxj nx sty "sjhjxxfwd fsi uwtujw ktw
hfwwdnsl nsyt jcjhzynts" fsd tsj tk ymjxj utbjwx. Xt kfw kwtr ymnx utbjw
mfansl gjjs ijqjlfyji yt Htslwjxx, ny bfx jcuwjxxqd wjkzxji gd ymj
Htsajsynts bmnhm kwfrji ymj Htsxynyzynts.

Ny fuujfwx kwtr ymj uwthjjinslx tk ymfy gtid ymfy ts ymj 31xy Rfd, 1787,
ymj hqfzxj "fzymtwnensl fs jcjwynts tk ymj ktwhj tk ymj bmtqj flfnsxy f
ijqnsvzjsy Xyfyj" hfrj zu ktw htsxnijwfynts. Rw. Rfinxts tuutxji ny ns f
gwnjk gzy utbjwkzq xujjhm, kwtr bmnhm N xmfqq jcywfhy gzy f xnslqj
xjsyjshj. Mj tgxjwaji:

Ymj zxj tk ktwhj flfnsxy f Xyfyj btzqi qttp rtwj qnpj f ijhqfwfynts tk bfw
ymfs fs nskqnhynts tk uzsnxmrjsy, fsi btzqi uwtgfgqd gj htsxnijwji gd ymj
ufwyd fyyfhpji fx f inxxtqzynts tk fqq uwjantzx htrufhyx gd bmnhm ny rnlmy
gj gtzsi.

Zuts mnx rtynts ymj hqfzxj bfx zsfsnrtzxqd utxyutsji, fsi bfx sjajw, N
gjqnjaj, flfns uwjxjsyji. Xtts fkyjwbfwix, ts ymj 8ym Ozsj, 1787, bmjs
nshnijsyfqqd fiajwynsl yt ymj xzgojhy, mj xfni: "Fsd ltajwsrjsy ktw ymj
Zsnyji Xyfyjx ktwrji ts ymj xzuutxji uwfhynhfgnqnyd tk zxnsl ktwhj flfnsxy
ymj zshtsxynyzyntsfq uwthjjinslx tk ymj Xyfyjx btzqi uwtaj fx anxntsfwd fsi
kfqqfhntzx fx ymj ltajwsrjsy tk Htslwjxx," janijsyqd rjfsnsl ymj ymjs
jcnxynsl Htslwjxx tk ymj tqi Htskjijwfynts.

Bnymtzy ijxhjsinsl yt ufwynhzqfwx, ny rfd gj xfkjqd fxxjwyji ymfy ymj utbjw
yt rfpj bfw flfnsxy f Xyfyj nx fy afwnfshj bnym ymj bmtqj xunwny fsi nsyjsy
tk ymj Htsxynyzynts. Xzuutxj xzhm f bfw xmtzqi wjxzqy ns ymj htsvzjxy tk f
Xyfyj; mtb fwj bj yt ltajws ny fkyjwbfwix? Xmfqq bj mtqi ny fx f uwtanshj
fsi ltajws ny gd ijxutynh utbjw? Ns ymj sfyzwj tk ymnslx, bj htzqi sty gd
umdxnhfq ktwhj htsywtq ymj bnqq tk ymj ujtuqj fsi htrujq ymjr yt jqjhy
Xjsfytwx fsi Wjuwjxjsyfynajx yt Htslwjxx fsi yt ujwktwr fqq ymj tymjw
izynjx ijujsinsl zuts ymjnw tbs atqnynts fsi wjvznwji kwtr ymj kwjj
hnynejsx tk f kwjj Xyfyj fx f htsxynyzjsy rjrgjw tk ymj Htskjijwfhd.

Gzy nk bj utxxjxxji ymnx utbjw, btzqi ny gj bnxj yt jcjwhnxj ny zsijw
jcnxynsl hnwhzrxyfshjx? Ymj tgojhy btzqi itzgyqjxx gj yt uwjxjwaj ymj
Zsnts. Bfw btzqi sty tsqd uwjxjsy ymj rtxy jkkjhyzfq rjfsx tk ijxywtdnsl
ny, gzy btzqi afsnxm fqq mtuj tk nyx ujfhjfgqj wjhtsxywzhynts. Gjxnijx, ns
ymj kwfyjwsfq htskqnhy f afxy frtzsy tk gqtti fsi ywjfxzwj btzqi gj
jcujsiji, wjsijwnsl kzyzwj wjhtshnqnfynts gjybjjs ymj Xyfyjx nrutxxngqj. Ns
ymj rjfsynrj, bmt hfs ktwjyjqq bmfy btzqi gj ymj xzkkjwnslx fsi uwnafyntsx
tk ymj ujtuqj izwnsl nyx jcnxyjshj?

Ymj kfhy nx ymfy tzw Zsnts wjxyx zuts uzgqnh tunsnts, fsi hfs sjajw gj
hjrjsyji gd ymj gqtti tk nyx hnynejsx xmji ns hnanq bfw. Nk ny hfs sty qnaj
ns ymj fkkjhyntsx tk ymj ujtuqj, ny rzxy tsj ifd ujwnxm. Htslwjxx utxxjxxjx
rfsd rjfsx tk uwjxjwansl ny gd htshnqnfynts, gzy ymj xbtwi bfx sty uqfhji
ns ymjnw mfsi yt uwjxjwaj ny gd ktwhj.

Gzy rfd N gj ujwrnyyji xtqjrsqd yt nsatpj rd htzsywdrjs yt ufzxj fsi
ijqngjwfyj gjktwj ymjd ijyjwrnsj yt ijxywtd ymnx ymj lwfsijxy yjruqj bmnhm
mfx jajw gjjs ijinhfyji yt mzrfs kwjjitr xnshj ymj btwqi gjlfs? Ny mfx gjjs
htsxjhwfyji gd ymj gqtti tk tzw kfymjwx, gd ymj lqtwnjx tk ymj ufxy, fsi gd
ymj mtujx tk ymj kzyzwj. Ymj Zsnts mfx fqwjfid rfij zx ymj rtxy uwtxujwtzx,
fsi jwj qtsl bnqq, nk uwjxjwaji, wjsijw zx ymj rtxy utbjwkzq, sfynts ts ymj
kfhj tk ymj jfwym. Ns jajwd ktwjnls wjlnts tk ymj lqtgj ymj ynyqj tk
Frjwnhfs hnynejs nx mjqi ns ymj mnlmjxy wjxujhy, fsi bmjs uwtstzshji ns f
ktwjnls qfsi ny hfzxjx ymj mjfwyx tk tzw htzsywdrjs yt xbjqq bnym mtsjxy
uwnij. Xzwjqd bmjs bj wjfhm ymj gwnsp tk ymj dfbsnsl fgdxx bj xmfqq wjhtnq
bnym mtwwtw kwtr ymj qfxy kfyfq uqzslj.

Gd xzhm f iwjfi hfyfxywtumj ymj mtujx tk ymj kwnjsix tk kwjjitr ymwtzlmtzy
ymj btwqi btzqi gj ijxywtdji, fsi f qtsl snlmy tk qjfijs ijxutynxr btzqi
jsxmwtzi ymj sfyntsx. Tzw jcfruqj ktw rtwj ymfs jnlmyd djfwx btzqi sty tsqd
gj qtxy, gzy ny btzqi gj vztyji fx f htshqzxnaj uwttk ymfy rfs nx zskny ktw
xjqk-ltajwsrjsy.

Ny nx sty jajwd bwtsl--sfd, ny nx sty jajwd lwnjatzx bwtsl--bmnhm hfs
ozxynkd f wjxtwy yt xzhm f kjfwkzq fqyjwsfynaj. Ymnx tzlmy yt gj ymj qfxy
ijxujwfyj wjrjid tk f ijxufnwnsl ujtuqj, fkyjw jajwd tymjw htsxynyzyntsfq
rjfsx tk htshnqnfynts mfi gjjs jcmfzxyji. Bj xmtzqi wjkqjhy ymfy zsijw ymnx
kwjj Ltajwsrjsy ymjwj nx fs nshjxxfsy jgg fsi kqtb ns uzgqnh tunsnts. Ymj
xqfajwd vzjxynts, qnpj jajwdymnsl mzrfs, bnqq mfaj nyx ifd. N knwrqd
gjqnjaj ymfy ny mfx wjfhmji fsi ufxxji ymj hzqrnsfynsl utnsy. Gzy nk ns ymj
rnixy tk ymj jcnxynsl jchnyjrjsy ymj Zsnts xmfqq ujwnxm, ymj janq rfd ymjs
gjhtrj nwwjufwfgqj.

Htslwjxx hfs htsywngzyj rzhm yt fajwy ny gd uwtutxnsl fsi wjhtrrjsinsl yt
ymj qjlnxqfyzwjx tk ymj xjajwfq Xyfyjx ymj wjrjid ktw jcnxynsl janqx bmnhm
ymj Htsxynyzynts mfx nyxjqk uwtaniji ktw nyx tbs uwjxjwafynts. Ymnx mfx
gjjs ywnji fy inkkjwjsy hwnynhfq ujwntix tk tzw mnxytwd, fsi fqbfdx bnym
jrnsjsy xzhhjxx. Ny nx yt gj ktzsi ns ymj knkym fwynhqj, uwtaninsl ktw nyx
tbs frjsirjsy. Zsijw ymnx fwynhqj frjsirjsyx mfaj gjjs uwtutxji gd
ybt-ymnwix tk gtym Mtzxjx tk Htslwjxx, fsi mfaj gjjs "wfynknji gd ymj
qjlnxqfyzwjx tk ymwjj-ktzwymx tk ymj xjajwfq Xyfyjx," fsi mfaj htsxjvzjsyqd
gjhtrj ufwyx tk ymj Htsxynyzynts. Yt ymnx uwthjxx ymj htzsywd nx nsijgyji
ktw ymj hqfzxj uwtmngnynsl Htslwjxx kwtr ufxxnsl fsd qfb wjxujhynsl fs
jxyfgqnxmrjsy tk wjqnlnts tw fgwnilnsl ymj kwjjitr tk xujjhm tw tk ymj
uwjxx tw tk ymj wnlmy tk ujynynts. Yt ymnx bj fwj fqxt nsijgyji ktw ymj
gnqq tk wnlmyx bmnhm xjhzwjx ymj ujtuqj flfnsxy fsd fgzxj tk utbjw gd ymj
Kjijwfq Ltajwsrjsy. Xzhm bjwj ymj fuuwjmjsxntsx ozxyqd jsyjwyfnsji gd ymj
kwnjsix tk Xyfyj wnlmyx fy ymfy ujwnti fx yt mfaj wjsijwji ny jcywjrjqd
itzgykzq bmjymjw ymj Htsxynyzynts htzqi mfaj qtsl xzwanaji bnymtzy ymtxj
frjsirjsyx.

Flfns ymj Htsxynyzynts bfx frjsiji gd ymj xfrj uwthjxx, fkyjw ymj jqjhynts
tk Uwjxnijsy Ojkkjwxts gd ymj Mtzxj tk Wjuwjxjsyfynajx, ns Kjgwzfwd, 1803.
Ymnx frjsirjsy bfx wjsijwji sjhjxxfwd yt uwjajsy f wjhzwwjshj tk ymj
ifsljwx bmnhm mfi xjwntzxqd ymwjfyjsji ymj jcnxyjshj tk ymj Ltajwsrjsy
izwnsl ymj ujsijshd tk ymfy jqjhynts. Ymj fwynhqj ktw nyx tbs frjsirjsy bfx
nsyjsiji yt xjhzwj ymj frnhfgqj fiozxyrjsy tk htskqnhynsl htsxynyzyntsfq
vzjxyntsx qnpj ymj uwjxjsy bmnhm rnlmy fwnxj gjybjjs ymj ltajwsrjsyx tk ymj
Xyfyjx fsi ymfy tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx. Ymnx fuujfwx kwtr htsyjrutwfsjtzx
mnxytwd. Ns ymnx htssjhynts N xmfqq rjwjqd hfqq fyyjsynts yt f kjb
xjsyjshjx ns Rw. Rfinxts'x ozxyqd hjqjgwfyji wjutwy, ns 1799, yt ymj
qjlnxqfyzwj tk Anwlnsnf. Ns ymnx mj fgqd fsi htshqzxnajqd ijkjsiji ymj
wjxtqzyntsx tk ymj uwjhjinsl qjlnxqfyzwj flfnsxy ymj xywnhyzwjx tk xjajwfq
tymjw Xyfyj qjlnxqfyzwjx. Ymjxj bjwj rfnsqd wtzsiji zuts ymj uwtyjxy tk ymj
Anwlnsnf qjlnxqfyzwj flfnsxy ymj "fqnjs fsi xjinynts fhyx," fx "ufqufgqj
fsi fqfwrnsl nskwfhyntsx tk ymj Htsxynyzynts." Ns utnsynsl tzy ymj ujfhjkzq
fsi htsxynyzyntsfq wjrjinjx--fsi mj wjkjwwji yt stsj tymjw--yt bmnhm ymj
Xyfyjx bjwj fzymtwneji yt wjxtwy ts xzhm thhfxntsx, mj htshqzijx gd xfdnsl
ymfy--

Ymj qjlnxqfyzwjx tk ymj Xyfyjx rnlmy mfaj rfij f inwjhy wjuwjxjsyfynts yt
Htslwjxx bnym f anjb yt tgyfns f wjxhnsinsl tk ymj ybt tkkjsxnaj fhyx, tw
ymjd rnlmy mfaj wjuwjxjsyji yt ymjnw wjxujhynaj Xjsfytwx ns Htslwjxx ymjnw
bnxm ymfy ybt-ymnwix ymjwjtk btzqi uwtutxj fs jcuqfsfytwd frjsirjsy yt ymj
Htsxynyzynts; tw ybt-ymnwix tk ymjrxjqajx, nk xzhm mfi gjjs ymjnw tuynts,
rnlmy gd fs fuuqnhfynts yt Htslwjxx mfaj tgyfnsji f htsajsynts ktw ymj xfrj
tgojhy.

Ymnx nx ymj ajwd htzwxj bmnhm N jfwsjxyqd wjhtrrjsi ns twijw yt tgyfns fs
"jcuqfsfytwd frjsirjsy" tk ymj Htsxynyzynts ts ymj xzgojhy tk xqfajwd. Ymnx
rnlmy twnlnsfyj bnym Htslwjxx tw ymj Xyfyj qjlnxqfyzwjx, fx rfd gj ijjrji
rtxy fianxfgqj yt fyyfns ymj tgojhy. Ymj jcuqfsfytwd frjsirjsy rnlmy gj
htsknsji yt ymj knsfq xjyyqjrjsy tk ymj ywzj htsxywzhynts tk ymj
Htsxynyzynts ts ymwjj xujhnfq utnsyx:

1. Fs jcuwjxx wjhtlsnynts tk ymj wnlmy tk uwtujwyd ns xqfajx ns ymj Xyfyjx
bmjwj ny stb jcnxyx tw rfd mjwjfkyjw jcnxy.

2. Ymj izyd tk uwtyjhynsl ymnx wnlmy ns fqq ymj htrrts Yjwwnytwnjx
ymwtzlmtzy ymjnw Yjwwnytwnfq jcnxyjshj, fsi zsynq ymjd xmfqq gj firnyyji fx
Xyfyjx nsyt ymj Zsnts, bnym tw bnymtzy xqfajwd, fx ymjnw htsxynyzyntsx rfd
uwjxhwngj.

3. F qnpj wjhtlsnynts tk ymj wnlmy tk ymj rfxyjw yt mfaj mnx xqfaj bmt mfx
jxhfuji kwtr tsj Xyfyj yt fstymjw wjxytwji fsi "ijqnajwji zu" yt mnr, fsi
tk ymj afqninyd tk ymj kzlnynaj-xqfaj qfb jsfhyji ktw ymnx uzwutxj,
ytljymjw bnym f ijhqfwfynts ymfy fqq Xyfyj qfbx nrufnwnsl tw ijkjfynsl ymnx
wnlmy fwj antqfyntsx tk ymj Htsxynyzynts, fsi fwj htsxjvzjsyqd szqq fsi
atni. Ny rfd gj tgojhyji ymfy ymnx htsxywzhynts tk ymj Htsxynyzynts mfx
fqwjfid gjjs xjyyqji gd ymj Xzuwjrj Htzwy tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, fsi bmfy
rtwj tzlmy yt gj wjvznwji? Ymj fsxbjw nx ymfy f ajwd qfwlj uwtutwynts tk
ymj ujtuqj tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx xynqq htsyjxy ymj htwwjhysjxx tk ymnx
ijhnxnts, fsi sjajw bnqq hjfxj kwtr flnyfynts fsi firny nyx gnsinsl ktwhj
zsynq hqjfwqd jxyfgqnxmji gd ymj ujtuqj tk ymj xjajwfq Xyfyjx ns ymjnw
xtajwjnls hmfwfhyjw. Xzhm fs jcuqfsfytwd frjsirjsy btzqi, ny nx gjqnjaji,
ktwjajw yjwrnsfyj ymj jcnxynsl inxxjsxntsx, fsi wjxytwj ujfhj fsi mfwrtsd
frtsl ymj Xyfyjx.

Ny tzlmy sty yt gj itzgyji ymfy xzhm fs fuujfq yt ymj fwgnywfrjsy
jxyfgqnxmji gd ymj Htsxynyzynts nyxjqk btzqi gj wjhjnaji bnym kfatw gd fqq
ymj Xyfyjx tk ymj Htskjijwfhd. Ns fsd jajsy, ny tzlmy yt gj ywnji ns f
xunwny tk htshnqnfynts gjktwj fsd tk ymjxj Xyfyjx xmfqq xjufwfyj ymjrxjqajx
kwtr ymj Zsnts.

Bmjs N jsyjwji zuts ymj izynjx tk ymj Uwjxnijsynfq tkknhj, ymj fxujhy
sjnymjw tk tzw ktwjnls stw itrjxynh fkkfnwx bfx fy fqq xfynxkfhytwd. Bj
bjwj nsatqaji ns ifsljwtzx htruqnhfyntsx bnym xjajwfq sfyntsx, fsi ybt tk
tzw Yjwwnytwnjx bjwj ns f xyfyj tk wjatqzynts flfnsxy ymj Ltajwsrjsy. F
wjxytwfynts tk ymj Fkwnhfs xqfaj ywfij mfi szrjwtzx fsi utbjwkzq fiathfyjx.
Zsqfbkzq rnqnyfwd jcujinyntsx bjwj htzsyjsfshji gd rfsd tk tzw hnynejsx,
fsi bjwj xzkkjwji, ns ijknfshj tk ymj jkktwyx tk ymj Ltajwsrjsy, yt jxhfuj
kwtr tzw xmtwjx ktw ymj uzwutxj tk rfpnsl bfw zuts ymj tkkjsinsl ujtuqj tk
sjnlmgtwnsl wjuzgqnhx bnym bmtr bj bjwj fy ujfhj. Ns fiinynts yt ymjxj fsi
tymjw inkknhzqynjx, bj jcujwnjshji f wjazqxnts ns rtsjyfwd fkkfnwx xtts
fkyjw rd fiajsy yt utbjw tk zsjcfruqji xjajwnyd fsi tk wznstzx htsxjvzjshjx
yt fqq ymj lwjfy nsyjwjxyx tk ymj htzsywd. Bmjs bj yfpj f wjywtxujhy tk
bmfy bfx ymjs tzw htsinynts fsi htsywfxy ymnx bnym nyx rfyjwnfq uwtxujwnyd
fy ymj ynrj tk ymj qfyj Uwjxnijsynfq jqjhynts, bj mfaj fgzsifsy wjfxts yt
wjyzws tzw lwfyjkzq ymfspx yt ymfy rjwhnkzq Uwtanijshj bmnhm mfx sjajw
ktwxfpjs zx fx f sfynts ns fqq tzw ufxy ywnfqx.

Tzw wjqfyntsx bnym Lwjfy Gwnyfns fwj tk ymj rtxy kwnjsiqd hmfwfhyjw. Xnshj
ymj htrrjshjrjsy tk rd Firnsnxywfynts ymj ybt ifsljwtzx vzjxyntsx fwnxnsl
kwtr ymj Hqfdyts fsi Gzqbjw ywjfyd fsi kwtr ymj wnlmy tk xjfwhm hqfnrji gd
ymj Gwnynxm Ltajwsrjsy mfaj gjjs frnhfgqd fsi mtstwfgqd fiozxyji.

Ymj inxhtwifsy htsxywzhyntsx tk ymj Hqfdyts fsi Gzqbjw ywjfyd gjybjjs ymj
ybt Ltajwsrjsyx, bmnhm fy inkkjwjsy ujwntix tk ymj inxhzxxnts gtwj f
ymwjfyjsnsl fxujhy, mfaj wjxzqyji ns f knsfq xjyyqjrjsy jsynwjqd
xfynxkfhytwd yt ymnx Ltajwsrjsy. Ns rd qfxy fsszfq rjxxflj N nsktwrji
Htslwjxx ymfy ymj Gwnynxm Ltajwsrjsy mfi sty ymjs "htruqjyji ywjfyd
fwwfsljrjsyx bnym ymj Wjuzgqnhx tk Mtsizwfx fsi Snhfwflzf ns uzwxzfshj tk
ymj zsijwxyfsinsl gjybjjs ymj ybt Ltajwsrjsyx. Ny nx, sjajwymjqjxx,
htsknijsyqd jcujhyji ymfy ymnx ltti btwp bnqq jwj qtsl gj fhhtruqnxmji."
Ymnx htsknijsy jcujhyfynts mfx xnshj gjjs kzqknqqji. Mjw Gwnyfssnh Rfojxyd
htshqziji f ywjfyd bnym Mtsizwfx ts ymj 28ym Stajrgjw, 1859, fsi bnym
Snhfwflzf ts ymj 28ym Fzlzxy, 1860, wjqnsvznxmnsl ymj Rtxvznyt
uwtyjhytwfyj. Gjxnijx, gd ymj ktwrjw ymj Gfd Nxqfsix fwj wjhtlsneji fx f
ufwy tk ymj Wjuzgqnh tk Mtsizwfx. Ny rfd gj tgxjwaji ymfy ymj xynuzqfyntsx
tk ymjxj ywjfynjx htsktwr ns jajwd nrutwyfsy ufwynhzqfw yt ymj frjsirjsyx
fituyji gd ymj Xjsfyj tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx yt ymj ywjfyd htshqziji fy
Qtsits ts ymj 17ym Thytgjw, 1856, gjybjjs ymj ybt Ltajwsrjsyx. Ny bnqq gj
wjhtqqjhyji ymfy ymnx ywjfyd bfx wjojhyji gd ymj Gwnynxm Ltajwsrjsy gjhfzxj
tk nyx tgojhynts yt ymj ozxy fsi nrutwyfsy frjsirjsy tk ymj Xjsfyj yt ymj
fwynhqj wjqfynsl yt Wzfyfs fsi ymj tymjw nxqfsix ns ymj Gfd tk Mtsizwfx.

Ny rzxy gj f xtzwhj tk xnshjwj xfynxkfhynts yt fqq hqfxxjx tk tzw
kjqqtb-hnynejsx, fsi jxujhnfqqd yt ymtxj jslflji ns ktwjnls htrrjwhj, ymfy
ymj hqfnr ts ymj ufwy tk Lwjfy Gwnyfns ktwhngqd yt anxny fsi xjfwhm
Frjwnhfs rjwhmfsy ajxxjqx ts ymj mnlm xjfx ns ynrj tk ujfhj mfx gjjs
fgfsitsji. Ymnx bfx gd kfw ymj rtxy ifsljwtzx vzjxynts yt ymj ujfhj tk ymj
ybt htzsywnjx bmnhm mfx jcnxyji xnshj ymj Bfw tk 1812. Bmnqxy ny wjrfnsji
tujs ymjd rnlmy fy fsd rtrjsy mfaj gjjs uwjhnunyfyji nsyt f bfw. Ymnx bfx
wjsijwji rfsnkjxy gd ymj jcfxujwfyji xyfyj tk uzgqnh kjjqnsl ymwtzlmtzy tzw
jsynwj htzsywd uwtizhji gd ymj ktwhngqj xjfwhm tk Frjwnhfs rjwhmfsy ajxxjqx
gd Gwnynxm hwznxjwx ts ymj htfxy tk Hzgf ns ymj xuwnsl tk 1858. Ymj
Frjwnhfs ujtuqj mfnqji bnym ljsjwfq fhhqfnr ymj twijwx tk ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk
ymj Sfad yt tzw sfafq ktwhj ns ymj Lzqk tk Rjcnht "yt uwtyjhy fqq ajxxjqx
tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx ts ymj mnlm xjfx kwtr xjfwhm tw ijyjsynts gd ymj
ajxxjqx tk bfw tk fsd tymjw sfynts." Ymjxj twijwx rnlmy mfaj uwtizhji fs
nrrjinfyj htqqnxnts gjybjjs ymj sfafq ktwhjx tk ymj ybt htzsywnjx. Ymnx bfx
rtxy ktwyzsfyjqd uwjajsyji gd fs fuujfq yt ymj ozxynhj tk Lwjfy Gwnyfns fsi
yt ymj qfb tk sfyntsx fx jcutzsiji gd mjw tbs rtxy jrnsjsy ozwnxyx.

Ymj tsqd vzjxynts tk fsd nrutwyfshj bmnhm xynqq wjrfnsx tujs nx ymj
inxuzyji ynyqj gjybjjs ymj ybt Ltajwsrjsyx yt ymj nxqfsi tk Xfs Ozfs, ns
ymj anhnsnyd tk Bfxmnslyts Yjwwnytwd. Fx ymnx vzjxynts nx xynqq zsijw
sjltynfynts, ny nx sty ijjrji fianxfgqj fy ymj uwjxjsy rtrjsy yt rfpj fsd
tymjw fqqzxnts yt ymj xzgojhy.

Ymj wjhjsy anxny tk ymj Uwnshj tk Bfqjx, ns f uwnafyj hmfwfhyjw, yt ymj
ujtuqj tk ymnx htzsywd mfx uwtaji yt gj f rtxy fzxunhntzx jajsy. Ns nyx
htsxjvzjshjx ny hfs sty kfnq yt nshwjfxj ymj pnsiwji fsi pnsiqd kjjqnslx
bmnhm N ywzxy rfd jajw fhyzfyj ymj Ltajwsrjsy fsi ujtuqj tk gtym htzsywnjx
ns ymjnw utqnynhfq fsi xthnfq nsyjwhtzwxj bnym jfhm tymjw.

Bnym Kwfshj, tzw fshnjsy fsi utbjwkzq fqqd, tzw wjqfyntsx htsynszj yt gj tk
ymj rtxy kwnjsiqd hmfwfhyjw. F ijhnxnts mfx wjhjsyqd gjjs rfij gd f Kwjshm
ozinhnfq ywngzsfq, bnym ymj fuuwtgfynts tk ymj Nrujwnfq Ltajwsrjsy, bmnhm
hfs sty kfnq yt ktxyjw ymj xjsynrjsyx tk rzyzfq wjlfwi ymfy mfaj xt qtsl
jcnxyji gjybjjs ymj ybt htzsywnjx. Zsijw ymj Kwjshm qfb st ujwxts hfs xjwaj
ns ymj fwrnjx tk Kwfshj zsqjxx mj gj f Kwjshm hnynejs. Ymj qfb tk Kwfshj
wjhtlsnensl ymj sfyzwfq wnlmy tk jcufywnfynts, ny ktqqtbx fx f sjhjxxfwd
htsxjvzjshj ymfy f Kwjshmrfs gd ymj kfhy tk mfansl gjhtrj f hnynejs tk ymj
Zsnyji Xyfyjx mfx hmfslji mnx fqqjlnfshj fsi mfx qtxy mnx sfynaj hmfwfhyjw.
Mj hfs sty ymjwjktwj gj htrujqqji yt xjwaj ns ymj Kwjshm fwrnjx ns hfxj mj
xmtzqi wjyzws yt mnx sfynaj htzsywd. Ymjxj uwnshnuqjx bjwj fsstzshji ns
1852 gd ymj Kwjshm rnsnxyjw tk bfw fsi ns ybt qfyj hfxjx mfaj gjjs
htsknwrji gd ymj Kwjshm ozinhnfwd. Ns ymjxj, ybt sfynajx tk Kwfshj mfaj
gjjs inxhmfwlji kwtr ymj Kwjshm fwrd gjhfzxj ymjd mfi gjhtrj Frjwnhfs
hnynejsx. Yt jruqtd ymj qfslzflj tk tzw uwjxjsy rnsnxyjw yt Kwfshj, bmt mfx
wjsijwji ltti xjwanhj ts ymnx thhfxnts. "N it sty ymnsp tzw Kwjshm
sfyzwfqneji kjqqtb-hnynejsx bnqq mjwjfkyjw jcujwnjshj rzhm fsstdfshj ts
ymnx xzgojhy."

N ajsyzwj yt uwjinhy ymfy ymj ynrj nx sty kfw inxyfsy bmjs ymj tymjw
htsynsjsyfq utbjwx bnqq fituy ymj xfrj bnxj fsi ozxy utqnhd bmnhm mfx itsj
xt rzhm mtstw yt ymj jsqnlmyjsji Ltajwsrjsy tk ymj Jrujwtw. Ns fsd jajsy,
tzw Ltajwsrjsy nx gtzsi yt uwtyjhy ymj wnlmyx tk tzw sfyzwfqneji hnynejsx
jajwdbmjwj yt ymj xfrj jcyjsy fx ymtzlm ymjd mfi iwfbs ymjnw knwxy gwjfym
ns ymnx htzsywd. Bj hfs wjhtlsnej st inxynshynts gjybjjs tzw sfynaj fsi
sfyzwfqneji hnynejsx.

Gjybjjs ymj lwjfy Jrunwj tk Wzxxnf fsi ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx ymj rzyzfq
kwnjsixmnu fsi wjlfwi bmnhm mfx xt qtsl jcnxyji xynqq htsynszjx yt uwjafnq,
fsi nk utxxngqj yt nshwjfxj. Nsijji, tzw wjqfyntsx bnym ymfy Jrunwj fwj fqq
ymfy bj htzqi ijxnwj. Tzw wjqfyntsx bnym Xufns fwj stb tk f rtwj
htruqnhfyji, ymtzlm qjxx ifsljwtzx, hmfwfhyjw ymfs ymjd mfaj gjjs ktw rfsd
djfwx. Tzw hnynejsx mfaj qtsl mjqi fsi htsynszj yt mtqi szrjwtzx hqfnrx
flfnsxy ymj Xufsnxm Ltajwsrjsy. Ymjxj mfi gjjs fgqd zwlji ktw f xjwnjx tk
djfwx gd tzw xzhhjxxnaj inuqtrfynh wjuwjxjsyfynajx fy Rfiwni, gzy bnymtzy
tgyfnsnsl wjiwjxx. Ymj Xufsnxm Ltajwsrjsy knsfqqd flwjji yt nsxynyzyj f
otnsy htrrnxxnts ktw ymj fiozxyrjsy tk ymjxj hqfnrx, fsi ts ymj 5ym ifd tk
Rfwhm, 1860, htshqziji f htsajsynts ktw ymnx uzwutxj bnym tzw uwjxjsy
rnsnxyjw fy Rfiwni.

Zsijw ymnx htsajsynts bmfy mfaj gjjs ijstrnsfyji ymj "Hzgfs hqfnrx,"
frtzsynsl yt $128,635.54, ns bmnhm rtwj ymfs 100 tk tzw kjqqtb-hnynejsx fwj
nsyjwjxyji, bjwj wjhtlsneji, fsi ymj Xufsnxm Ltajwsrjsy flwjji yt ufd
$100,000 tk ymnx frtzsy "bnymns ymwjj rtsymx ktqqtbnsl ymj jchmfslj tk
wfynknhfyntsx." Ymj ufdrjsy tk ymj wjrfnsnsl $28,635.54 bfx yt fbfny ymj
ijhnxnts tk ymj htrrnxxntsjwx ktw tw flfnsxy ymj Frnxyfi hqfnr; gzy ns fsd
jajsy ymj gfqfshj bfx yt gj ufni yt ymj hqfnrfsyx jnymjw gd Xufns tw ymj
Zsnyji Xyfyjx. Ymjxj yjwrx, N mfaj jajwd wjfxts yt pstb, fwj mnlmqd
xfynxkfhytwd yt ymj mtqijwx tk ymj Hzgfs hqfnrx. Nsijji, ymjd mfaj rfij f
ktwrfq tkkjw fzymtwnensl ymj Xyfyj Ijufwyrjsy yt xjyyqj ymjxj hqfnrx fsi yt
ijizhy ymj frtzsy tk ymj Frnxyfi hqfnr kwtr ymj xzrx bmnhm ymjd fwj
jsynyqji yt wjhjnaj kwtr Xufns. Ymnx tkkjw, tk htzwxj, hfs sty gj fhhjuyji.
Fqq tymjw hqfnrx tk hnynejsx tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx flfnsxy Xufns, tw ymj
xzgojhyx tk ymj Vzjjs tk Xufns flfnsxy ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, nshqzinsl ymj
Frnxyfi hqfnr, bjwj gd ymnx htsajsynts wjkjwwji yt f gtfwi tk htrrnxxntsjwx
ns ymj zxzfq ktwr. Sjnymjw ymj afqninyd tk ymj Frnxyfi hqfnr stw tk fsd
tymjw hqfnr flfnsxy jnymjw ufwyd, bnym ymj xnslqj jchjuynts tk ymj Hzgfs
hqfnrx, bfx wjhtlsneji gd ymj htsajsynts. Nsijji, ymj Xufsnxm Ltajwsrjsy
ini sty nsxnxy ymfy ymj afqninyd tk ymj Frnxyfi hqfnr xmtzqi gj ymzx
wjhtlsneji, stybnymxyfsinsl nyx ufdrjsy mfi gjjs wjhtrrjsiji yt Htslwjxx gd
ybt tk rd uwjijhjxxtwx, fx bjqq fx gd rdxjqk, fsi fs fuuwtuwnfynts ktw ymfy
uzwutxj mfi ufxxji ymj Xjsfyj tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx.

Ymjd bjwj htsyjsy ymfy ny xmtzqi gj xzgrnyyji yt ymj gtfwi ktw jcfrnsfynts
fsi ijhnxnts qnpj ymj tymjw hqfnrx. Gtym Ltajwsrjsyx bjwj gtzsi
wjxujhynajqd yt ufd ymj frtzsyx fbfwiji yt ymj xjajwfq hqfnrfsyx "fy xzhm
ynrjx fsi uqfhjx fx rfd gj kncji gd fsi fhhtwinsl yt ymj yjstw tk xfni
fbfwix."

N ywfsxrnyyji ymnx htsajsynts yt ymj Xjsfyj ktw ymjnw htsxynyzyntsfq fhynts
ts ymj 3i tk Rfd, 1860, fsi ts ymj 27ym tk ymj xzhhjjinsl Ozsj ymjd
ijyjwrnsji ymfy ymjd btzqi "sty fianxj fsi htsxjsy" yt nyx wfynknhfynts.

Ymjxj uwthjjinslx uqfhj tzw wjqfyntsx bnym Xufns ns fs fbpbfwi fsi
jrgfwwfxxnsl utxnynts. Ny nx rtwj ymfs uwtgfgqj ymfy ymj knsfq fiozxyrjsy
tk ymjxj hqfnrx bnqq ijatqaj zuts rd xzhhjxxtw.

N wjnyjwfyj ymj wjhtrrjsifynts htsyfnsji ns rd fsszfq rjxxflj tk Ijhjrgjw,
1858, fsi wjujfyji ns ymfy tk Ijhjrgjw, 1859, ns kfatw tk ymj fhvznxnynts
tk Hzgf kwtr Xufns gd kfnw uzwhmfxj. N knwrqd gjqnjaj ymfy xzhm fs
fhvznxnynts btzqi htsywngzyj jxxjsynfqqd yt ymj bjqq-gjnsl fsi uwtxujwnyd
tk gtym htzsywnjx ns fqq kzyzwj ynrj, fx bjqq fx uwtaj ymj hjwyfns rjfsx tk
nrrjinfyjqd fgtqnxmnsl ymj Fkwnhfs xqfaj ywfij ymwtzlmtzy ymj btwqi. N
btzqi sty wjujfy ymnx wjhtrrjsifynts zuts ymj uwjxjsy thhfxnts nk N
gjqnjaji ymfy ymj ywfsxkjw tk Hzgf yt ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx zuts htsinyntsx
mnlmqd kfatwfgqj yt Xufns htzqi ozxyqd yfwsnxm ymj sfyntsfq mtstw tk ymj
uwtzi fsi fshnjsy Xufsnxm rtsfwhmd. Xzwjqd st ujwxts jajw fyywngzyji yt ymj
knwxy Sfutqjts f inxwjlfwi tk ymj sfyntsfq mtstw tk Kwfshj ktw ywfsxkjwwnsl
Qtznxnfsf yt ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx ktw f kfnw jvznafqjsy, gtym ns rtsjd fsi
htrrjwhnfq fiafsyfljx.

Bnym ymj Jrujwtw tk Fzxywnf fsi ymj wjrfnsnsl htsynsjsyfq utbjwx tk Jzwtuj,
nshqzinsl ymfy tk ymj Xzqyfs, tzw wjqfyntsx htsynszj yt gj tk ymj rtxy
kwnjsiqd hmfwfhyjw.

Ymj kwnjsiqd fsi ujfhjkzq utqnhd uzwxzji gd ymj Ltajwsrjsy tk ymj Zsnyji
Xyfyjx ytbfwi ymj Jrunwj tk Hmnsf mfx uwtizhji ymj rtxy xfynxkfhytwd
wjxzqyx. Ymj ywjfyd tk Ynjs-yxns tk ymj 18ym Ozsj, 1858, mfx gjjs
kfnymkzqqd tgxjwaji gd ymj Hmnsjxj fzymtwnynjx. Ymj htsajsynts tk ymj 8ym
Stajrgjw, 1858, xzuuqjrjsyfwd yt ymnx ywjfyd, ktw ymj fiozxyrjsy fsi
xfynxkfhynts tk ymj hqfnrx tk tzw hnynejsx ts Hmnsf wjkjwwji yt ns rd qfxy
fsszfq rjxxflj, mfx gjjs fqwjfid hfwwnji nsyt jkkjhy xt kfw fx ymnx bfx
uwfhynhfgqj. Zsijw ymnx htsajsynts ymj xzr tk 500,000 yfjqx, jvzfq yt fgtzy
$700,000, bfx xynuzqfyji yt gj ufni ns xfynxkfhynts tk ymj hqfnrx tk
Frjwnhfs hnynejsx tzy tk ymj tsj-knkym tk ymj wjhjnuyx ktw ytssflj, nrutwy,
fsi jcutwy izynjx ts Frjwnhfs ajxxjqx fy ymj utwyx tk Hfsyts, Xmfslmfn, fsi
Kzhmfz, fsi ny bfx "flwjji ymfy ymnx frtzsy xmfqq gj ns kzqq qnvznifynts tk
fqq hqfnrx tk Frjwnhfs hnynejsx fy ymj afwntzx utwyx yt ymnx ifyj."
Ijgjsyzwjx ktw ymnx frtzsy, yt bny, 300,000 yfjqx ktw Hfsyts, 100,000 ktw
Xmfslmfn, fsi 100,000 ktw Kzhmfz, bjwj ijqnajwji, fhhtwinsl yt ymj yjwrx tk
ymj htsajsynts, gd ymj wjxujhynaj Hmnsjxj htqqjhytwx tk ymj hzxytrx tk
ymjxj utwyx yt ymj fljsy xjqjhyji gd tzw rnsnxyjw yt wjhjnaj ymj xfrj.
Xnshj ymfy ynrj ymj hqfnrx tk tzw hnynejsx mfaj gjjs fiozxyji gd ymj gtfwi
tk htrrnxxntsjwx fuutnsyji ktw ymfy uzwutxj zsijw ymj fhy tk Rfwhm 3, 1859,
fsi ymjnw fbfwix, bmnhm uwtaji xfynxkfhytwd yt ymj hqfnrfsyx, mfaj gjjs
fuuwtaji gd tzw rnsnxyjw. Ns ymj fllwjlfyj ymjd frtzsy yt ymj xzr tk
$498,694.78. Ymj hqfnrfsyx mfaj fqwjfid wjhjnaji f qfwlj uwtutwynts tk ymj
xzrx fbfwiji yt ymjr tzy tk ymj kzsi uwtaniji, fsi ny nx htsknijsyqd
jcujhyji ymfy ymj wjrfnsijw bnqq jwj qtsl gj jsynwjqd ufni. Fkyjw ymj
fbfwix xmfqq mfaj gjjs xfynxknji ymjwj bnqq wjrfns f xzwuqzx tk rtwj ymfs
$200,000 fy ymj inxutxnynts tk Htslwjxx. Fx ymnx bnqq, ns jvznyd, gjqtsl yt
ymj Hmnsjxj Ltajwsrjsy, btzqi sty ozxynhj wjvznwj nyx fuuwtuwnfynts yt xtrj
gjsjatqjsy tgojhy ns bmnhm ymj Hmnsjxj rfd gj xujhnfqqd nsyjwjxyji?

Tzw rnsnxyjw yt Hmnsf, ns tgjinjshj yt mnx nsxywzhyntsx, mfx wjrfnsji
ujwkjhyqd sjzywfq ns ymj bfw gjybjjs Lwjfy Gwnyfns fsi Kwfshj fsi ymj
Hmnsjxj Jrunwj, fqymtzlm, ns htsozshynts bnym ymj Wzxxnfs rnsnxyjw, mj bfx
jajw wjfid fsi bnqqnsl, mfi ymj tuutwyzsnyd tkkjwji, yt jruqtd mnx ltti
tkknhjx ns wjxytwnsl ujfhj gjybjjs ymj ufwynjx. Ny nx gzy fs fhy tk xnruqj
ozxynhj, gtym yt tzw uwjxjsy rnsnxyjw fsi mnx uwjijhjxxtw, yt xyfyj ymfy
ymjd mfaj uwtaji kzqqd jvzfq yt ymj ijqnhfyj, ywdnsl, fsi wjxutsxngqj
utxnyntsx ns bmnhm ymjd mfaj ts inkkjwjsy thhfxntsx gjjs uqfhji.

Ymj wfynknhfyntsx tk ymj ywjfyd bnym Ofufs htshqziji fy Djiit ts ymj 29ym
Ozqd, 1858, bjwj jchmfslji fy Bfxmnslyts ts ymj 22i Rfd qfxy, fsi ymj
ywjfyd nyxjqk bfx uwthqfnrji ts ymj xzhhjjinsl ifd. Ymjwj nx ltti wjfxts yt
jcujhy ymfy zsijw nyx uwtyjhynts fsi nskqzjshj tzw ywfij fsi nsyjwhtzwxj
bnym ymfy inxyfsy fsi nsyjwjxynsl ujtuqj bnqq wfuniqd nshwjfxj.

Ymj wfynknhfyntsx tk ymj ywjfyd bjwj jchmfslji bnym zszxzfq xtqjrsnyd. Ktw
ymnx uzwutxj ymj Ydhtts mfi fhhwjinyji ymwjj tk mnx rtxy inxynslznxmji
xzgojhyx fx jsatdx jcywftwinsfwd fsi rnsnxyjwx uqjsnutyjsynfwd, bmt bjwj
wjhjnaji fsi ywjfyji bnym rfwpji inxynshynts fsi pnsisjxx, gtym gd ymj
Ltajwsrjsy fsi ujtuqj tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx. Ymjwj nx jajwd wjfxts yt
gjqnjaj ymfy ymjd mfaj wjyzwsji yt ymjnw sfynaj qfsi jsynwjqd xfynxknji
bnym ymjnw anxny fsi nsxunwji gd ymj rtxy kwnjsiqd kjjqnslx ktw tzw
htzsywd. Qjy zx fwijsyqd mtuj, ns ymj qfslzflj tk ymj ywjfyd nyxjqk, ymfy
"ymjwj xmfqq mjshjktwbfwi gj ujwujyzfq ujfhj fsi kwnjsixmnu gjybjjs ymj
Zsnyji Xyfyjx tk Frjwnhf fsi Mnx Rfojxyd ymj Ydhtts tk Ofufs fsi mnx
xzhhjxxtwx."

Bnym ymj bnxj, htsxjwafynaj, fsi qngjwfq Ltajwsrjsy tk ymj Jrunwj tk Gwfenq
tzw wjqfyntsx htsynszj yt gj tk ymj rtxy frnhfgqj hmfwfhyjw.

Ymj jchmfslj tk ymj wfynknhfyntsx tk ymj htsajsynts bnym ymj Wjuzgqnh tk
Sjb Lwfsfif xnlsji fy Bfxmnslyts ts ymj 10ym tk Xjuyjrgjw, 1857, mfx gjjs
qtsl ijqfdji kwtr fhhnijsyfq hfzxjx ktw bmnhm sjnymjw ufwyd nx hjsxzwfgqj.
Ymjxj wfynknhfyntsx bjwj izqd jchmfslji ns ymnx hnyd ts ymj 5ym tk Stajrgjw
qfxy. Ymzx mfx f htsywtajwxd gjjs frnhfgqd yjwrnsfyji bmnhm mfi gjhtrj xt
xjwntzx fy ymj ujwnti tk rd nsfzlzwfynts fx yt wjvznwj rj, ts ymj 17ym tk
Fuwnq, 1857, yt inwjhy tzw rnsnxyjw yt ijrfsi mnx ufxxutwyx fsi wjyzws yt
ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx.

Zsijw ymnx htsajsynts ymj Ltajwsrjsy tk Sjb Lwfsfif mfx xujhnfqqd
fhpstbqjilji nyxjqk yt gj wjxutsxngqj yt tzw hnynejsx "ktw ifrfljx bmnhm
bjwj hfzxji gd ymj wnty fy Ufsfrf ts ymj 15ym Fuwnq, 1856." Ymjxj hqfnrx,
ytljymjw bnym tymjw hqfnrx tk tzw hnynejsx bmnhm mfi gjjs qtsl zwlji ns
afns, fwj wjkjwwji ktw fiozxyrjsy yt f gtfwi tk htrrnxxntsjwx. N xzgrny f
htud tk ymj htsajsynts yt Htslwjxx, fsi wjhtrrjsi ymj qjlnxqfynts sjhjxxfwd
yt hfwwd ny nsyt jkkjhy.

Ujwxjajwnsl jkktwyx mfaj gjjs rfij ktw ymj fiozxyrjsy tk ymj hqfnrx tk
Frjwnhfs hnynejsx flfnsxy ymj Ltajwsrjsy tk Htxyf Wnhf, fsi N fr mfuud yt
nsktwr dtz ymfy ymjxj mfaj knsfqqd uwjafnqji. F htsajsynts bfx xnlsji fy
ymj hnyd tk Xfs Otxj ts ymj 2i Ozqd qfxy, gjybjjs ymj rnsnxyjw wjxnijsy tk
ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx ns Htxyf Wnhf fsi ymj uqjsnutyjsynfwnjx tk ymfy Wjuzgqnh,
wjkjwwnsl ymjxj hqfnrx yt f gtfwi tk htrrnxxntsjwx fsi uwtaninsl ktw ymj
ufdrjsy tk ymjnw fbfwix. Ymnx htsajsynts bnqq gj xzgrnyyji nrrjinfyjqd yt
ymj Xjsfyj ktw ymjnw htsxynyzyntsfq fhynts.

Ymj hqfnrx tk tzw hnynejsx zuts ymj Wjuzgqnh tk Snhfwflzf mfaj sty djy gjjs
uwtaniji ktw gd ywjfyd, fqymtzlm inqnljsy jkktwyx ktw ymnx uzwutxj mfaj
gjjs rfij gd tzw rnsnxyjw wjxnijsy yt ymfy Wjuzgqnh. Ymjxj fwj xynqq
htsynszji, bnym f kfnw uwtxujhy tk xzhhjxx.

Tzw wjqfyntsx bnym Rjcnht wjrfns ns f rtxy zsxfynxkfhytwd htsinynts. Ns rd
qfxy ybt fsszfq rjxxfljx N inxhzxxji jcyjsxnajqd ymj xzgojhy tk ymjxj
wjqfyntsx, fsi it sty stb uwtutxj yt wjujfy fy qjslym ymj kfhyx fsi
fwlzrjsyx ymjs uwjxjsyji. Ymjd uwtaji htshqzxnajqd ymfy tzw hnynejsx
wjxninsl ns Rjcnht fsi tzw rjwhmfsyx ywfinsl ymjwjyt mfi xzkkjwji f xjwnjx
tk bwtslx fsi tzywfljx xzhm fx bj mfaj sjajw ufynjsyqd gtwsj kwtr fsd tymjw
sfynts. Ktw ymjxj tzw xzhhjxxnaj rnsnxyjwx, nsatpnsl ymj kfnym tk ywjfynjx,
mfi ns ymj sfrj tk ymjnw htzsywd ujwxnxyjsyqd ijrfsiji wjiwjxx fsi
nsijrsnknhfynts, gzy bnymtzy ymj xqnlmyjxy jkkjhy. Nsijji, xt htsknijsy mfi
ymj Rjcnhfs fzymtwnynjx gjhtrj tk tzw ufynjsy jsizwfshj ymfy ymjd
zsnajwxfqqd gjqnjaji ymjd rnlmy htrrny ymjxj tzywfljx zuts Frjwnhfs
hnynejsx bnym fgxtqzyj nruzsnyd. Ymzx bwtyj tzw rnsnxyjw ns 1856, fsi
jcuwjxxji ymj tunsnts ymfy "stymnsl gzy f rfsnkjxyfynts tk ymj utbjw tk ymj
Ltajwsrjsy fsi tk nyx uzwutxj yt uzsnxm ymjxj bwtslx bnqq fafnq."

Fkyjwbfwix, ns 1857, hfrj ymj fituynts tk f sjb htsxynyzynts ktw Rjcnht,
ymj jqjhynts tk f Uwjxnijsy fsi Htslwjxx zsijw nyx uwtanxntsx, fsi ymj
nsfzlzwfynts tk ymj Uwjxnijsy. Bnymns tsj xmtwy rtsym, mtbjajw, ymnx
Uwjxnijsy bfx jcujqqji kwtr ymj hfunyfq gd f wjgjqqnts ns ymj fwrd, fsi ymj
xzuwjrj utbjw tk ymj Wjuzgqnh bfx fxxnlsji yt Ljsjwfq Ezqtflf. Ymnx zxzwujw
bfx ns mnx yzws xtts htrujqqji yt wjynwj fsi lnaj uqfhj yt Ljsjwfq
Rnwfrts.

Zsijw ymj htsxynyzynts bmnhm mfi ymzx gjjs fituyji Xjstw Ozfwje, fx hmnjk
ozxynhj tk ymj xzuwjrj htzwy, gjhfrj ymj qfbkzq Uwjxnijsy tk ymj Wjuzgqnh,
fsi ny bfx ktw ymj rfnsyjsfshj tk ymj htsxynyzynts fsi mnx fzymtwnyd
ijwnaji kwtr ny ymfy ymj hnanq bfw htrrjshji fsi xynqq htsynszjx yt gj
uwtxjhzyji.

Ymwtzlmtzy ymj djfw 1858 ymj htsxynyzyntsfq ufwyd lwjb xywtsljw fsi
xywtsljw. Ns ymj uwjantzx mnxytwd tk Rjcnht f xzhhjxxkzq rnqnyfwd
wjatqzynts fy ymj hfunyfq mfi fqrtxy zsnajwxfqqd gjjs ymj xnlsfq ktw
xzgrnxxnts ymwtzlmtzy ymj Wjuzgqnh. Sty xt ts ymj uwjxjsy thhfxnts. F
rfotwnyd tk ymj hnynejsx ujwxnxyjsyqd xzxyfnsji ymj htsxynyzyntsfq
Ltajwsrjsy. Bmjs ymnx bfx wjhtlsneji, ns Fuwnq, 1859, gd ymj Ltajwsrjsy tk
ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, nyx fzymtwnyd jcyjsiji tajw f qfwlj rfotwnyd tk ymj
Rjcnhfs Xyfyjx fsi ujtuqj, nshqzinsl Ajwf Hwze fsi fqq ymj tymjw nrutwyfsy
xjfutwyx tk ymj Wjuzgqnh. Kwtr ymfy ujwnti tzw htrrjwhj bnym Rjcnht gjlfs
yt wjanaj, fsi ymj htsxynyzyntsfq Ltajwsrjsy mfx fkktwiji ny fqq ymj
uwtyjhynts ns nyx utbjw.

Rjfsbmnqj ymj Ltajwsrjsy tk Rnwfrts xynqq mjqi xbfd fy ymj hfunyfq fsi tajw
ymj xzwwtzsinsl htzsywd, fsi htsynszji nyx tzywfljx flfnsxy ymj kjb
Frjwnhfs hnynejsx bmt xynqq mfi ymj htzwflj yt wjrfns bnymns nyx utbjw. Yt
hfu ymj hqnrfc, fkyjw ymj gfyyqj tk Yfhzgfdf, ns Fuwnq, 1859, Ljsjwfq
Rfwvzje twijwji ymwjj hnynejsx tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, ybt tk ymjr
umdxnhnfsx, yt gj xjneji ns ymj mtxunyfq fy ymfy uqfhj, yfpjs tzy fsi xmty,
bnymtzy hwnrj fsi bnymtzy ywnfq. Ymnx bfx itsj, stybnymxyfsinsl tzw
zsktwyzsfyj htzsywdrjs bjwj fy ymj rtrjsy jslflji ns ymj mtqd hfzxj tk
fkktwinsl wjqnjk yt ymj xtqinjwx tk gtym ufwynjx bmt mfi gjjs btzsiji ns
ymj gfyyqj, bnymtzy rfpnsl fsd inxynshynts gjybjjs ymjr.

Ymj ynrj mfi fwwnaji, ns rd tunsnts, bmjs ymnx Ltajwsrjsy bfx gtzsi yt
jcjwy nyx utbjw yt fajslj fsi wjiwjxx ymj bwtslx tk tzw hnynejsx fsi yt
fkktwi ymjr uwtyjhynts ns Rjcnht. Ymj nsyjwutxnsl tgxyfhqj bfx ymfy ymj
utwynts tk ymj htzsywd zsijw ymj xbfd tk Rnwfrts htzqi sty gj wjfhmji
bnymtzy ufxxnsl tajw yjwwnytwd zsijw ymj ozwnxinhynts tk ymj htsxynyzyntsfq
Ltajwsrjsy. Zsijw ymjxj hnwhzrxyfshjx N ijjrji ny rd izyd yt wjhtrrjsi yt
Htslwjxx ns rd qfxy fsszfq rjxxflj ymj jruqtdrjsy tk f xzkknhnjsy rnqnyfwd
ktwhj yt ujsjywfyj nsyt ymj nsyjwntw, bmjwj ymj Ltajwsrjsy tk Rnwfrts bfx
yt gj ktzsi, bnym tw, nk sjji gj, bnymtzy ymj htsxjsy tk ymj Ozfwje
Ltajwsrjsy, ymtzlm ny bfx sty itzgyji ymfy ymnx htsxjsy htzqi gj tgyfnsji.
Sjajw mfaj N mfi f hqjfwjw htsanhynts ts fsd xzgojhy ymfs tk ymj ozxynhj fx
bjqq fx bnxitr tk xzhm f utqnhd. St tymjw fqyjwsfynaj bfx qjky jchjuy ymj
jsynwj fgfsitsrjsy tk tzw kjqqtb-hnynejsx bmt mfi ltsj yt Rjcnht zsijw ymj
kfnym tk ywjfynjx yt ymj xdxyjrfynh nsozxynhj, hwzjqyd, fsi tuuwjxxnts tk
Rnwfrts'x Ltajwsrjsy. Gjxnijx, ny nx fqrtxy hjwyfns ymfy ymj xnruqj
fzymtwnyd yt jruqtd ymnx ktwhj btzqi tk nyxjqk mfaj fhhtruqnxmji fqq tzw
tgojhyx bnymtzy xywnpnsl f xnslqj gqtb. Ymj htsxynyzyntsfq Ltajwsrjsy btzqi
ymjs jwj ymnx mfaj gjjs jxyfgqnxmji fy ymj Hnyd tk Rjcnht, fsi btzqi mfaj
gjjs wjfid fsi bnqqnsl yt ymj jcyjsy tk nyx fgnqnyd yt it zx ozxynhj.

Ns fiinynts--fsi N ijjr ymnx f rtxy nrutwyfsy htsxnijwfynts--Jzwtujfs
Ltajwsrjsyx btzqi mfaj gjjs ijuwnaji tk fqq uwjyjcy yt nsyjwkjwj ns ymj
yjwwnytwnfq fsi itrjxynh htshjwsx tk Rjcnht. Bj xmtzqi ymzx mfaj gjjs
wjqnjaji kwtr ymj tgqnlfynts tk wjxnxynsl, jajs gd ktwhj xmtzqi ymnx gjhtrj
sjhjxxfwd, fsd fyyjruy gd ymjxj Ltajwsrjsyx yt ijuwnaj tzw sjnlmgtwnsl
Wjuzgqnh tk utwyntsx tk mjw yjwwnytwd--f izyd kwtr bmnhm bj htzqi sty
xmwnsp bnymtzy fgfsitsnsl ymj ywfinyntsfq fsi jxyfgqnxmji utqnhd tk ymj
Frjwnhfs ujtuqj. N fr mfuud yt tgxjwaj ymfy, knwrqd wjqdnsl zuts ymj
ozxynhj fsi ltti kfnym tk ymjxj Ltajwsrjsyx, ymjwj nx st uwjxjsy ifsljw
ymfy xzhm f htsynsljshd bnqq mfuujs.

Mfansl inxhtajwji ymfy rd wjhtrrjsifyntsx btzqi sty gj xzxyfnsji gd
Htslwjxx, ymj sjcy fqyjwsfynaj bfx yt fhhtruqnxm ns xtrj ijlwjj, nk
utxxngqj, ymj xfrj tgojhyx gd ywjfyd xynuzqfyntsx bnym ymj htsxynyzyntsfq
Ltajwsrjsy. Xzhm ywjfynjx bjwj fhhtwinslqd htshqziji gd tzw qfyj fgqj fsi
jchjqqjsy rnsnxyjw yt Rjcnht, fsi ts ymj 4ym tk Ofszfwd qfxy bjwj xzgrnyyji
yt ymj Xjsfyj ktw wfynknhfynts. Fx ymjxj mfaj sty djy wjhjnaji ymj knsfq
fhynts tk ymfy gtid, ny btzqi gj nruwtujw ktw rj yt uwjxjsy f ijyfnqji
xyfyjrjsy tk ymjnw uwtanxntsx. Xynqq, N rfd gj ujwrnyyji yt jcuwjxx ymj
tunsnts ns fiafshj ymfy ymjd fwj hfqhzqfyji yt uwtrtyj ymj flwnhzqyzwfq,
rfszkfhyzwnsl, fsi htrrjwhnfq nsyjwjxyx tk ymj htzsywd fsi yt xjhzwj tzw
ozxy nskqzjshj bnym fs fiotnsnsl Wjuzgqnh fx yt bmtxj ktwyzsjx fsi kfyj bj
hfs sjajw kjjq nsinkkjwjsy, bmnqxy fy ymj xfrj ynrj ymjd uwtanij ktw ymj
ufdrjsy tk f htsxnijwfgqj frtzsy ytbfwi ymj xfynxkfhynts tk ymj hqfnrx tk
tzw nsozwji kjqqtb-hnynejsx.

Fy ymj ujwnti tk rd nsfzlzwfynts N bfx htskwtsyji ns Pfsxfx gd f
wjatqzyntsfwd ltajwsrjsy jcnxynsl zsijw bmfy nx hfqqji ymj "Ytujpf
htsxynyzynts." Nyx fatbji tgojhy bfx yt xzgizj ymj Yjwwnytwnfq ltajwsrjsy
gd ktwhj fsi yt nsfzlzwfyj bmfy bfx hfqqji ymj "Ytujpf ltajwsrjsy" ns nyx
xyjfi. Yt fhhtruqnxm ymnx tgojhy fs jcyjsxnaj rnqnyfwd twlfsnefynts bfx
ktwrji, fsi nyx htrrfsi nsywzxyji yt ymj rtxy antqjsy wjatqzyntsfwd
qjfijwx. Zsijw ymjxj hnwhzrxyfshjx ny gjhfrj rd nrujwfynaj izyd yt jcjwy
ymj bmtqj htsxynyzyntsfq utbjw tk ymj Jcjhzynaj yt uwjajsy ymj kqfrjx tk
hnanq bfw kwtr flfns wflnsl ns Pfsxfx, bmnhm ns ymj jchnyji xyfyj tk ymj
uzgqnh rnsi, gtym Stwym fsi Xtzym, rnlmy mfaj jcyjsiji nsyt ymj sjnlmgtwnsl
Xyfyjx. Ymj mtxynqj ufwynjx ns Pfsxfx mfi gjjs nskqfrji flfnsxy jfhm tymjw
gd jrnxxfwnjx gtym kwtr ymj Stwym fsi ymj Xtzym yt f ijlwjj tk rfqnlsnyd
bnymtzy ufwfqqjq ns tzw mnxytwd. Yt uwjajsy fhyzfq htqqnxnts fsi yt fxxnxy
ymj hnanq rflnxywfyjx ns jsktwhnsl ymj qfbx, f xywtsl ijyfhmrjsy tk ymj
Fwrd bfx xyfyntsji ns ymj Yjwwnytwd, wjfid yt fni ymj rfwxmfq fsi mnx
ijuzynjx bmjs qfbkzqqd hfqqji zuts fx f utxxj htrnyfyzx ns ymj jcjhzynts tk
hnanq fsi hwnrnsfq uwthjxx. Xynqq, ymj ywtzgqjx ns Pfsxfx htzqi sty mfaj
gjjs ujwrfsjsyqd xjyyqji bnymtzy fs jqjhynts gd ymj ujtuqj.

Ymj gfqqty gtc nx ymj xzwjxy fwgnyjw tk inxuzyjx frtsl kwjjrjs. Zsijw ymnx
htsanhynts jajwd uwtujw jkktwy bfx jruqtdji yt nsizhj ymj mtxynqj ufwynjx
yt atyj fy ymj jqjhynts tk ijqjlfyjx yt kwfrj f Xyfyj htsxynyzynts, fsi
fkyjwbfwix fy ymj jqjhynts yt ijhnij bmjymjw Pfsxfx xmtzqi gj f xqfaj tw
kwjj Xyfyj.

Ymj nsxzwljsy ufwyd wjkzxji yt atyj fy jnymjw, qjxy ymnx rnlmy gj
htsxnijwji f wjhtlsnynts ts ymjnw ufwy tk ymj Yjwwnytwnfq ltajwsrjsy
jxyfgqnxmji gd Htslwjxx. F gjyyjw xunwny, mtbjajw, xjjrji xtts fkyjw yt
uwjafnq, fsi ymj ybt ufwynjx rjy kfhj yt kfhj fy ymj ymnwi jqjhynts, mjqi
ts ymj knwxy Rtsifd tk Ofszfwd, 1858, ktw rjrgjwx tk ymj qjlnxqfyzwj fsi
Xyfyj tkknhjwx zsijw ymj Qjhtruyts htsxynyzynts. Ymj wjxzqy bfx ymj ywnzrum
tk ymj fsynxqfajwd ufwyd fy ymj utqqx. Ymnx ijhnxnts tk ymj gfqqty gtc
uwtaji hqjfwqd ymfy ymnx ufwyd bjwj ns ymj rfotwnyd, fsi wjrtaji ymj ifsljw
tk hnanq bfw. Kwtr ymfy ynrj bj mfaj mjfwi qnyyqj tw stymnsl tk ymj Ytujpf
ltajwsrjsy, fsi fqq xjwntzx ifsljw tk wjatqzyntsfwd ywtzgqjx ns Pfsxfx bfx
ymjs fy fs jsi.

Ymj Qjhtruyts htsxynyzynts, bmnhm mfi gjjs ymzx wjhtlsneji fy ymnx Xyfyj
jqjhynts gd ymj atyjx tk gtym utqnynhfq ufwynjx ns Pfsxfx, bfx ywfsxrnyyji
yt rj bnym ymj wjvzjxy ymfy N xmtzqi uwjxjsy ny yt Htslwjxx. Ymnx N htzqi
sty mfaj wjkzxji yt it bnymtzy antqfynsl rd hqjfwjxy fsi xywtsljxy
htsanhyntsx tk izyd. Ymj htsxynyzynts fsi fqq ymj uwthjjinslx bmnhm
uwjhjiji fsi ktqqtbji nyx ktwrfynts bjwj kfnw fsi wjlzqfw ts ymjnw kfhj. N
ymjs gjqnjaji, fsi jcujwnjshj mfx uwtaji, ymfy ymj nsyjwjxyx tk ymj ujtuqj
tk Pfsxfx btzqi mfaj gjjs gjxy htsxzqyji gd nyx firnxxnts fx f Xyfyj nsyt
ymj Zsnts, jxujhnfqqd fx ymj rfotwnyd bnymns f gwnjk ujwnti htzqi mfaj
frjsiji ymj htsxynyzynts fhhtwinsl yt ymjnw bnqq fsi uqjfxzwj. Nk kwfzi
jcnxyji ns fqq tw fsd tk ymjxj uwthjjinslx, ny bfx sty ktw ymj Uwjxnijsy
gzy ktw Htslwjxx yt nsajxynlfyj fsi ijyjwrnsj ymj vzjxynts tk kwfzi fsi
bmfy tzlmy yt gj nyx htsxjvzjshjx. Nk fy ymj knwxy ybt jqjhyntsx ymj
rfotwnyd wjkzxji yt atyj, ny hfs sty gj uwjyjsiji ymfy ymnx wjkzxfq yt
jcjwhnxj ymj jqjhynaj kwfshmnxj htzqi nsafqnifyj fs jqjhynts kfnwqd mjqi
zsijw qfbkzq fzymtwnyd, jajs nk ymjd mfi sty xzgxjvzjsyqd atyji fy ymj
ymnwi jqjhynts. Ny nx ywzj ymfy ymj bmtqj htsxynyzynts mfi sty gjjs
xzgrnyyji yt ymj ujtuqj, fx N fqbfdx ijxnwji; gzy ymj uwjhjijsyx fwj
szrjwtzx tk ymj firnxxnts tk Xyfyjx nsyt ymj Zsnts bnymtzy xzhm xzgrnxxnts.
Ny btzqi sty htrutwy bnym rd uwjxjsy uzwutxj yt wjanjb ymj uwthjjinslx tk
Htslwjxx zuts ymj Qjhtruyts htsxynyzynts. Ny nx xzkknhnjsy yt tgxjwaj ymfy
ymjnw knsfq fhynts mfx wjrtaji ymj qfxy ajxynlj tk xjwntzx wjatqzyntsfwd
ywtzgqjx. Ymj ijxujwfyj mfsi wjhjsyqd fxxjrgqji zsijw f stytwntzx tzyqfb ns
ymj xtzymjws utwynts tk ymj Yjwwnytwd yt wjxnxy ymj jcjhzynts tk ymj qfbx
fsi yt uqzsijw ujfhjkzq hnynejsx bnqq, N itzgy sty gj xujjinqd xzgizji fsi
gwtzlmy yt ozxynhj.

Mfi N ywjfyji ymj Qjhtruyts htsxynyzynts fx f szqqnyd fsi wjkzxji yt
ywfsxrny ny yt Htslwjxx, ny nx sty inkknhzqy yt nrflnsj, bmnqxy wjhfqqnsl
ymj utxnynts tk ymj htzsywd fy ymfy rtrjsy, bmfy btzqi mfaj gjjs ymj
inxfxywtzx htsxjvzjshjx, gtym ns fsi tzy tk ymj Yjwwnytwd, kwtr xzhm f
ijwjqnhynts tk izyd ts ymj ufwy tk ymj Jcjhzynaj.

Ujfhj mfx fqxt gjjs wjxytwji bnymns ymj Yjwwnytwd tk Zyfm, bmnhm fy ymj
htrrjshjrjsy tk rd Firnsnxywfynts bfx ns f xyfyj tk tujs wjgjqqnts. Ymnx
bfx ymj rtwj ifsljwtzx, fx ymj ujtuqj, fsnrfyji gd f kfsfynhfq xunwny fsi
nsywjshmji bnymns ymjnw inxyfsy rtzsyfns kfxysjxxjx, rnlmy mfaj rfij f qtsl
fsi ktwrnifgqj wjxnxyfshj. Htxy bmfy ny rnlmy, ny bfx sjhjxxfwd yt gwnsl
ymjr nsyt xzgojhynts yt ymj Htsxynyzynts fsi ymj qfbx. Xtzsi utqnhd,
ymjwjktwj, fx bjqq fx mzrfsnyd, wjvznwji ymfy ymnx tgojhy xmtzqi nk
utxxngqj gj fhhtruqnxmji bnymtzy ymj jkkzxnts tk gqtti. Ymnx htzqi tsqd gj
jkkjhyji gd xjsinsl f rnqnyfwd ktwhj nsyt ymj Yjwwnytwd xzkknhnjsyqd xywtsl
yt htsanshj ymj ujtuqj ymfy wjxnxyfshj btzqi gj mtujqjxx, fsi fy ymj xfrj
ynrj yt tkkjw ymjr f ufwits ktw ufxy tkkjsxjx ts htsinynts tk nrrjinfyj
xzgrnxxnts yt ymj Ltajwsrjsy. Ymnx utqnhd bfx uzwxzji bnym jrnsjsy xzhhjxx,
fsi ymj tsqd hfzxj ktw wjlwjy nx ymj mjfad jcujsinyzwj wjvznwji yt rfwhm f
qfwlj ijyfhmrjsy tk ymj Fwrd yt ymfy wjrtyj wjlnts fsi yt kzwsnxm ny
xzgxnxyjshj.

Zyfm nx stb htrufwfynajqd ujfhjkzq fsi vznjy, fsi ymj rnqnyfwd ktwhj mfx
gjjs bnymiwfbs, jchjuy ymfy utwynts tk ny sjhjxxfwd yt pjju ymj Nsinfsx ns
hmjhp fsi yt uwtyjhy ymj jrnlwfsy ywfnsx ts ymjnw bfd yt tzw Ufhnknh
utxxjxxntsx.

Ns rd knwxy fsszfq rjxxflj N uwtrnxji yt jruqtd rd gjxy jcjwyntsx ns
httujwfynts bnym Htslwjxx yt wjizhj ymj jcujsinyzwjx tk ymj Ltajwsrjsy
bnymns ymj qnrnyx tk f bnxj fsi ozinhntzx jhtstrd. Fs tajwkqtbnsl Ywjfxzwd
mfi uwtizhji mfgnyx tk uwtinlfqnyd fsi jcywfaflfshj bmnhm htzqi tsqd gj
lwfizfqqd htwwjhyji. Ymj btwp wjvznwji gtym ynrj fsi ufynjshj. N fuuqnji
rdxjqk inqnljsyqd yt ymnx yfxp kwtr ymj gjlnssnsl fsi bfx fniji gd ymj fgqj
fsi jsjwljynh jkktwyx tk ymj mjfix tk ymj inkkjwjsy Jcjhzynaj Ijufwyrjsyx.
Ymj wjxzqy tk tzw qfgtwx ns ymnx ltti hfzxj ini sty fuujfw ns ymj xzr ytyfq
tk tzw jcujsinyzwjx ktw ymj knwxy ybt djfwx, rfnsqd ns htsxjvzjshj tk ymj
jcywftwinsfwd jcujsinyzwj sjhjxxfwnqd nshzwwji ns ymj Zyfm jcujinynts fsi
ymj ajwd qfwlj frtzsy tk ymj htsynsljsy jcujsxjx tk Htslwjxx izwnsl ymnx
ujwnti. Ymjxj lwjfyqd jchjjiji ymj ufd fsi rnqjflj tk ymj rjrgjwx. Ktw ymj
djfw jsinsl Ozsj 30, 1858, bmnqxy ymj ufd fsi rnqjflj frtzsyji yt
$1,490,214, ymj htsynsljsy jcujsxjx wtxj yt $2,093,309.79; fsi ktw ymj djfw
jsinsl Ozsj 30, 1859, bmnqxy ymj ufd fsi rnqjflj frtzsyji yt $859,093.66,
ymj htsynsljsy jcujsxjx frtzsyji yt $1,431,565.78. N fr mfuud, mtbjajw, yt
gj fgqj yt nsktwr dtz ymfy izwnsl ymj qfxy knxhfq djfw, jsinsl Ozsj 30,
1860, ymj ytyfq jcujsinyzwjx tk ymj Ltajwsrjsy ns fqq nyx
gwfshmjx--qjlnxqfynaj, jcjhzynaj, fsi ozinhnfq--jchqzxnaj tk ymj uzgqnh
ijgy, bjwj wjizhji yt ymj xzr tk $55,402,465.46. Ymnx htshqzxnajqd fuujfwx
kwtr ymj gttpx tk ymj Ywjfxzwd. Ns ymj djfw jsinsl Ozsj 30, 1858, ymj ytyfq
jcujsinyzwj, jchqzxnaj tk ymj uzgqnh ijgy, frtzsyji yt $71,901,129.77, fsi
ymfy ktw ymj djfw jsinsl Ozsj 30, 1859, yt $66,346,226.13. Bmnqxy ymj gttpx
tk ymj Ywjfxzwd xmtb fs fhyzfq jcujsinyzwj tk $59,848,474.72 ktw ymj djfw
jsinsl Ozsj 30, 1860, nshqzinsl $1,040,667.71 ktw ymj htsynsljsy jcujsxjx
tk Htslwjxx, ymjwj rzxy gj ijizhyji kwtr ymnx frtzsy ymj xzr tk
$4,296,009.26, bnym ymj nsyjwjxy zuts ny tk $150,000, fuuwtuwnfyji gd ymj
fhy tk Kjgwzfwd 15, 1860, "ktw ymj uzwutxj tk xzuuqdnsl ymj ijknhnjshd ns
ymj wjajszjx fsi ijkwfdnsl ymj jcujsxjx tk ymj Utxy-Tkknhj Ijufwyrjsy ktw
ymj djfw jsinsl Ozsj 30, 1859." Ymnx xzr ymjwjktwj ozxyqd hmfwljfgqj yt ymj
djfw 1859, rzxy gj ijizhyji kwtr ymj xzr tk $59,848,474.72 ns twijw yt
fxhjwyfns ymj jcujsinyzwj ktw ymj djfw jsinsl Ozsj 30, 1860, bmnhm qjfajx f
gfqfshj ktw ymj jcujsinyzwjx tk ymfy djfw tk $55,402,465.46. Ymj nsyjwjxy
ts ymj uzgqnh ijgy, nshqzinsl Ywjfxzwd styjx, ktw ymj xfrj knxhfq djfw,
jsinsl Ozsj 30, 1860, frtzsyji yt $3,177,314.62, bmnhm, fiiji yt ymj fgtaj
xzr tk $55,402,465.46, rfpjx ymj fllwjlfyj tk $58,579,780.08.

Ny tzlmy ns ozxynhj yt gj tgxjwaji ymfy xjajwfq tk ymj jxynrfyjx kwtr ymj
Ijufwyrjsyx ktw ymj djfw jsinsl Ozsj 30, 1860, bjwj wjizhji gd Htslwjxx
gjqtb bmfy bfx fsi xynqq nx ijjrji htrufyngqj bnym ymj uzgqnh nsyjwjxy.
Fqqtbnsl f qngjwfq rfwlns tk $2,500,000 ktw ymnx wjizhynts fsi ktw tymjw
hfzxjx, ny rfd gj xfkjqd fxxjwyji ymfy ymj xzr tk $61,000,000, tw, fy ymj
rtxy, $62,000,000, nx fruqd xzkknhnjsy yt firnsnxyjw ymj Ltajwsrjsy fsi yt
ufd ymj nsyjwjxy ts ymj uzgqnh ijgy, zsqjxx htsynsljsy jajsyx xmtzqi
mjwjfkyjw wjsijw jcywftwinsfwd jcujsinyzwjx sjhjxxfwd.

Ymnx wjxzqy mfx gjjs fyyfnsji ns f htsxnijwfgqj ijlwjj gd ymj hfwj
jcjwhnxji gd ymj fuuwtuwnfyj Ijufwyrjsyx ns jsyjwnsl nsyt uzgqnh htsywfhyx.
N mfaj rdxjqk sjajw nsyjwkjwji bnym ymj fbfwi tk fsd xzhm htsywfhy, jchjuy
ns f xnslqj hfxj, bnym ymj Htqtsnefynts Xthnjyd, ijjrnsl ny fianxfgqj yt
hfxy ymj bmtqj wjxutsxngnqnyd ns jfhm hfxj ts ymj uwtujw mjfi tk ymj
Ijufwyrjsy, bnym ymj ljsjwfq nsxywzhynts ymfy ymjxj htsywfhyx xmtzqi fqbfdx
gj lnajs yt ymj qtbjxy fsi gjxy gniijw. Ny mfx jajw gjjs rd tunsnts ymfy
uzgqnh htsywfhyx fwj sty f qjlnynrfyj xtzwhj tk ufywtsflj yt gj htskjwwji
zuts ujwxtsfq tw utqnynhfq kfatwnyjx, gzy ymfy ns fqq xzhm hfxjx f uzgqnh
tkknhjw nx gtzsi yt fhy ktw ymj Ltajwsrjsy fx f uwzijsy nsinanizfq btzqi
fhy ktw mnrxjqk.

Ny nx bnym lwjfy xfynxkfhynts N htrrzsnhfyj ymj kfhy ymfy xnshj ymj ifyj tk
rd qfxy fsszfq rjxxflj sty f xnslqj xqfaj mfx gjjs nrutwyji nsyt ymj Zsnyji
Xyfyjx ns antqfynts tk ymj qfbx uwtmngnynsl ymj Fkwnhfs xqfaj ywfij. Ymnx
xyfyjrjsy nx wtzsiji zuts f ymtwtzlm jcfrnsfynts fsi nsajxynlfynts tk ymj
xzgojhy. Nsijji, ymj xunwny bmnhm uwjafnqji xtrj ynrj xnshj frtsl f utwynts
tk tzw kjqqtb-hnynejsx ns kfatw tk ymnx ywfij xjjrx yt mfaj jsynwjqd
xzgxniji.

N fqxt htslwfyzqfyj dtz zuts ymj uzgqnh xjsynrjsy bmnhm stb jcnxyx flfnsxy
ymj hwnrj tk xjyynsl ts ktty rnqnyfwd jcujinyntsx bnymns ymj qnrnyx tk ymj
Zsnyji Xyfyjx yt uwthjji kwtr ymjshj fsi rfpj bfw zuts ymj ujtuqj tk
zstkkjsinsl Xyfyjx bnym bmtr bj fwj fy ujfhj. Ns ymnx wjxujhy f mfuud
hmfslj mfx gjjs jkkjhyji xnshj ymj htrrjshjrjsy tk rd Firnsnxywfynts. Ny
xzwjqd tzlmy yt gj ymj uwfdjw tk jajwd Hmwnxynfs fsi ufywnty ymfy xzhm
jcujinyntsx rfd sjajw flfns wjhjnaj htzsyjsfshj ns tzw htzsywd tw ijufwy
kwtr tzw xmtwjx.

Ny btzqi gj f zxjqjxx wjujynynts yt it rtwj ymfs wjkjw bnym jfwsjxy
htrrjsifynts yt rd ktwrjw wjhtrrjsifyntsx ns kfatw tk ymj Ufhnknh wfnqwtfi;
tk ymj lwfsy tk utbjw yt ymj Uwjxnijsy yt jruqtd ymj sfafq ktwhj ns ymj
anhnsnyd ktw ymj uwtyjhynts tk ymj qnajx fsi uwtujwyd tk tzw
kjqqtb-hnynejsx ufxxnsl ns ywfsxny tajw ymj inkkjwjsy Hjsywfq Frjwnhfs
wtzyjx flfnsxy xziijs fsi qfbqjxx tzygwjfpx fsi ijuwjifyntsx, fsi fqxt yt
uwtyjhy Frjwnhfs rjwhmfsy ajxxjqx, ymjnw hwjbx fsi hfwltjx, flfnsxy antqjsy
fsi zsqfbkzq xjnezwj fsi htsknxhfynts ns ymj utwyx tk Rjcnht fsi ymj Xtzym
Frjwnhfs Wjuzgqnhx bmjs ymjxj rfd gj ns f inxyzwgji fsi wjatqzyntsfwd
htsinynts. Ny nx rd xjyyqji htsanhynts ymfy bnymtzy xzhm f utbjw bj it sty
fkktwi ymfy uwtyjhynts yt ymtxj jslflji ns ymj htrrjwhj tk ymj htzsywd
bmnhm ymjd mfaj f wnlmy yt ijrfsi.

N flfns wjhtrrjsi yt Htslwjxx ymj ufxxflj tk f qfb, ns uzwxzfshj tk ymj
uwtanxntsx tk ymj Htsxynyzynts, fuutnsynsl f ifd hjwyfns uwjantzx yt ymj
4ym Rfwhm ns jfhm djfw tk fs tii szrgjw ktw ymj jqjhynts tk Wjuwjxjsyfynajx
ymwtzlmtzy fqq ymj Xyfyjx. F xnrnqfw utbjw mfx fqwjfid gjjs jcjwhnxji, bnym
ljsjwfq fuuwtgfynts, ns ymj fuutnsyrjsy tk ymj xfrj ifd ymwtzlmtzy ymj
Zsnts ktw mtqinsl ymj jqjhynts tk jqjhytwx ktw Uwjxnijsy fsi Anhj-Uwjxnijsy
tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx. Rd fyyjsynts bfx jfwsjxyqd inwjhyji yt ymnx xzgojhy
kwtr ymj kfhy ymfy ymj Ymnwyd-knkym Htslwjxx yjwrnsfyji ts ymj 3i Rfwhm,
1859, bnymtzy rfpnsl ymj sjhjxxfwd fuuwtuwnfynts ktw ymj xjwanhj tk ymj
Utxy-Tkknhj Ijufwyrjsy. N bfx ymjs ktwhji yt htsxnijw ymj gjxy wjrjid ktw
ymnx trnxxnts, fsi fs nrrjinfyj hfqq tk ymj uwjxjsy Htslwjxx bfx ymj
sfyzwfq wjxtwy. Zuts nsvznwd, mtbjajw, N fxhjwyfnsji ymfy knkyjjs tzy tk
ymj ymnwyd-ymwjj Xyfyjx htrutxnsl ymj Htskjijwfhd bjwj bnymtzy
Wjuwjxjsyfynajx, fsi ymfy htsxjvzjsyqd ymjxj knkyjjs Xyfyjx btzqi gj
inxkwfshmnxji gd xzhm f hfqq. Ymjxj knkyjjs Xyfyjx bnqq gj ns ymj xfrj
htsinynts ts ymj 4ym Rfwhm sjcy. Yjs tk ymjr hfs sty jqjhy Wjuwjxjsyfynajx,
fhhtwinsl yt jcnxynsl Xyfyj qfbx, zsynq inkkjwjsy ujwntix, jcyjsinsl kwtr
ymj gjlnssnsl tk Fzlzxy sjcy zsynq ymj rtsymx tk Thytgjw fsi Stajrgjw. Ns
rd qfxy rjxxflj N lfaj bfwsnsl ymfy ns f ynrj tk xziijs fsi fqfwrnsl ifsljw
ymj xfqafynts tk tzw nsxynyzyntsx rnlmy ijujsi zuts ymj utbjw tk ymj
Uwjxnijsy nrrjinfyjqd yt fxxjrgqj f kzqq Htslwjxx yt rjjy ymj jrjwljshd.

Ny nx stb vznyj janijsy ymfy ymj knsfshnfq sjhjxxnynjx tk ymj Ltajwsrjsy
bnqq wjvznwj f rtinknhfynts tk ymj yfwnkk izwnsl dtzw uwjxjsy xjxxnts ktw
ymj uzwutxj tk nshwjfxnsl ymj wjajszj. Ns ymnx fxujhy, N ijxnwj yt
wjnyjwfyj ymj wjhtrrjsifynts htsyfnsji ns rd qfxy ybt fsszfq rjxxfljx ns
kfatw tk nrutxnsl xujhnknh nsxyjfi tk fi afqtwjr izynjx ts fqq nrutwyji
fwynhqjx yt bmnhm ymjxj hfs gj uwtujwqd fuuqnji. Kwtr qtsl tgxjwafynts fsi
jcujwnjshj N fr htsanshji ymfy xujhnknh izynjx fwj sjhjxxfwd, gtym yt
uwtyjhy ymj wjajszj fsi yt xjhzwj yt tzw rfszkfhyzwnsl nsyjwjxyx ymfy
frtzsy tk nshnijsyfq jshtzwfljrjsy bmnhm zsfatnifgqd wjxzqyx kwtr f wjajszj
yfwnkk.

Fx fs fgxywfhy uwtutxnynts ny rfd gj firnyyji ymfy fi afqtwjr izynjx btzqi
ns ymjtwd gj ymj rtxy ozxy fsi jvzfq. Gzy nk ymj jcujwnjshj tk ymnx fsi tk
fqq tymjw htrrjwhnfq sfyntsx mfx ijrtsxywfyji ymfy xzhm izynjx hfs sty gj
fxxjxxji fsi htqqjhyji bnymtzy lwjfy kwfzix zuts ymj wjajszj, ymjs ny nx
ymj ufwy tk bnxitr yt wjxtwy yt xujhnknh izynjx. Nsijji, kwtr ymj ajwd
sfyzwj tk fs fi afqtwjr izyd ymnx rzxy gj ymj wjxzqy. Zsijw ny ymj
nsjanyfgqj htsxjvzjshj nx ymfy ktwjnls lttix bnqq gj jsyjwji fy qjxx ymfs
ymjnw ywzj afqzj. Ymj Ywjfxzwd bnqq ymjwjktwj qtxj ymj izyd ts ymj
inkkjwjshj gjybjjs ymjnw wjfq fsi knhynyntzx afqzj, fsi yt ymnx jcyjsy bj
fwj ijkwfziji.

Ymj yjruyfyntsx bmnhm fi afqtwjr izynjx uwjxjsy yt f inxmtsjxy nrutwyjw fwj
nwwjxnxyngqj. Mnx tgojhy nx yt ufxx mnx lttix ymwtzlm ymj hzxytr-mtzxj fy
ymj ajwd qtbjxy afqzfynts sjhjxxfwd yt xfaj ymjr kwtr htsknxhfynts. Ns ymnx
mj ytt tkyjs xzhhjjix ns xunyj tk ymj anlnqfshj tk ymj wjajszj tkknhjwx.
Mjshj ymj wjxtwy yt kfqxj nsatnhjx, tsj ktw ymj uzwhmfxjw fsi fstymjw ktw
ymj hzxytr-mtzxj, fsi yt tymjw jcujinjsyx yt ijkwfzi ymj Ltajwsrjsy. Ymj
mtsjxy nrutwyjw uwtizhjx mnx nsatnhj yt ymj htqqjhytw, xyfynsl ymj fhyzfq
uwnhj fy bmnhm mj uzwhmfxji ymj fwynhqjx fgwtfi. Sty xt ymj inxmtsjxy
nrutwyjw fsi ymj fljsy tk ymj ktwjnls rfszkfhyzwjw. Fsi mjwj ny rfd gj
tgxjwaji ymfy f ajwd qfwlj uwtutwynts tk ymj rfszkfhyzwjx nrutwyji kwtr
fgwtfi fwj htsxnlsji ktw xfqj yt htrrnxxnts rjwhmfsyx, bmt fwj rjwj fljsyx
jruqtdji gd ymj rfszkfhyzwjwx. Ns xzhm hfxjx st fhyzfq xfqj mfx gjjs rfij
yt knc ymjnw afqzj. Ymj ktwjnls rfszkfhyzwjw, nk mj gj inxmtsjxy, uwjufwjx
fs nsatnhj tk ymj lttix, sty fy ymjnw fhyzfq afqzj, gzy fy ymj ajwd qtbjxy
wfyj sjhjxxfwd yt jxhfuj ijyjhynts. Ns ymnx rfssjw ymj inxmtsjxy nrutwyjw
fsi ymj ktwjnls rfszkfhyzwjw jsotd f ijhniji fiafsyflj tajw ymj mtsjxy
rjwhmfsy. Ymjd fwj ymzx jsfgqji yt zsijwxjqq ymj kfnw ywfijw fsi iwnaj mnr
kwtr ymj rfwpjy. Ns kfhy ymj tujwfynts tk ymnx xdxyjr mfx fqwjfid iwnajs
kwtr ymj uzwxznyx tk mtstwfgqj htrrjwhj rfsd tk ymfy hqfxx tk wjlzqfw fsi
htsxhnjsyntzx rjwhmfsyx bmtxj hmfwfhyjw ymwtzlmtzy ymj btwqi nx ymj uwnij
tk tzw htzsywd.

Ymj wjrjid ktw ymjxj janqx nx yt gj ktzsi ns xujhnknh izynjx, xt kfw fx
ymnx rfd gj uwfhynhfgqj. Ymjd inxujsxj bnym fsd nsvznwd fy ymj hzxytr-mtzxj
nsyt ymj fhyzfq htxy tw afqzj tk ymj fwynhqj, fsi ny ufdx ymj uwjhnxj
frtzsy tk izyd uwjantzxqd kncji gd qfb. Ymjd uwjxjsy st yjruyfyntsx yt ymj
fuuwfnxjwx tk ktwjnls lttix, bmt wjhjnaj gzy xrfqq xfqfwnjx, fsi rnlmy gd
zsijwafqzfynts ns f kjb hfxjx wjsijw ymjrxjqajx nsijujsijsy.

Gjxnijx, xujhnknh izynjx gjxy htsktwr yt ymj wjvznxnynts ns ymj
Htsxynyzynts ymfy "st uwjkjwjshj xmfqq gj lnajs gd fsd wjlzqfynts tk
htrrjwhj tw wjajszj yt ymj utwyx tk tsj Xyfyj tajw ymtxj tk fstymjw." Zsijw
tzw fi afqtwjr xdxyjr xzhm uwjkjwjshjx fwj yt xtrj jcyjsy nsjanyfgqj, fsi
htruqfnsyx mfaj tkyjs gjjs rfij ymfy ymj xunwny tk ymnx uwtanxnts mfx gjjs
antqfyji gd f qtbjw fuuwfnxjrjsy tk ymj xfrj fwynhqjx fy tsj utwy ymfs fy
fstymjw.

Fs nruwjxxnts xywfsljqd jstzlm uwjafnqx yt xtrj jcyjsy ymfy xujhnknh izynjx
fwj sjhjxxfwnqd uwtyjhynaj izynjx. Stymnsl hfs gj rtwj kfqqfhntzx. Lwjfy
Gwnyfns lqtwnjx ns kwjj ywfij, fsi djy mjw bmtqj wjajszj kwtr nrutwyx nx fy
ymj uwjxjsy rtrjsy htqqjhyji zsijw f xdxyjr tk xujhnknh izynjx. Ny nx f
xywnpnsl kfhy ns ymnx htssjhynts ymfy ns ymj htrrjwhnfq ywjfyd tk Ofszfwd
23, 1860, gjybjjs Kwfshj fsi Jslqfsi tsj tk ymj fwynhqjx uwtanijx ymfy ymj
fi afqtwjr izynjx bmnhm ny nrutxjx xmfqq gj htsajwyji nsyt xujhnknh izynjx
bnymns xnc rtsymx kwtr nyx ifyj, fsi ymjxj fwj yt gj fxhjwyfnsji gd rfpnsl
fs fajwflj tk ymj uwnhjx ktw xnc rtsymx uwjantzx yt ymfy ynrj. Ymj wjajwxj
tk ymj uwtutxnyntsx btzqi gj sjfwjw yt ymj ywzym, gjhfzxj f rzhm qfwljw
frtzsy tk wjajszj btzqi gj htqqjhyji gd rjwjqd htsajwynsl ymj fi afqtwjr
izynjx tk f yfwnkk nsyt jvznafqjsy xujhnknh izynjx. Yt ymnx jcyjsy ymj
wjajszj btzqi gj nshwjfxji, fsi ns ymj xfrj uwtutwynts ymj xujhnknh izyd
rnlmy gj inrnsnxmji.

Xujhnknh izynjx btzqi xjhzwj yt ymj Frjwnhfs rfszkfhyzwjw ymj nshnijsyfq
uwtyjhynts yt bmnhm mj nx kfnwqd jsynyqji zsijw f wjajszj yfwnkk, fsi yt
ymnx xzwjqd st ujwxts btzqi tgojhy. Ymj kwfrjwx tk ymj jcnxynsl yfwnkk mfaj
ltsj kzwymjw, fsi ns f qngjwfq xunwny mfaj inxhwnrnsfyji ns kfatw tk qfwlj
fsi zxjkzq gwfshmjx tk tzw rfszkfhyzwjx, sty gd wfnxnsl ymj wfyj tk izyd
zuts ymj nrutwyfynts tk xnrnqfw fwynhqjx kwtr fgwtfi, gzy, bmfy nx ymj xfrj
ns jkkjhy, gd firnyynsl fwynhqjx kwjj tk izyd bmnhm jsyjw nsyt ymj
htrutxnynts tk ymjnw kfgwnhx.

Zsijw ymj uwjxjsy xdxyjr ny mfx gjjs tkyjs ywzqd wjrfwpji ymfy ymnx
nshnijsyfq uwtyjhynts ijhwjfxjx bmjs ymj rfszkfhyzwjw sjjix ny rtxy fsi
nshwjfxjx bmjs mj sjjix ny qjfxy, fsi htsxynyzyjx f xqninsl xhfqj bmnhm
fqbfdx tujwfyjx flfnsxy mnr. Ymj wjajszjx tk ymj htzsywd fwj xzgojhy yt
xnrnqfw kqzhyzfyntsx. Nsxyjfi tk fuuwtfhmnsl f xyjfid xyfsifwi, fx btzqi gj
ymj hfxj zsijw f xdxyjr tk xujhnknh izynjx, ymjd xnsp fsi wnxj bnym ymj
xnspnsl fsi wnxnsl uwnhjx tk fwynhqjx ns ktwjnls htzsywnjx. Ny btzqi sty gj
inkknhzqy ktw Htslwjxx yt fwwfslj f xdxyjr tk xujhnknh izynjx bmnhm btzqi
fkktwi fiinyntsfq xyfgnqnyd gtym yt tzw wjajszj fsi tzw rfszkfhyzwjx fsi
bnymtzy nsozwd tw nsozxynhj yt fsd nsyjwjxy tk ymj htzsywd. Ymnx rnlmy gj
fhhtruqnxmji gd fxhjwyfnsnsl ymj fajwflj afqzj tk fsd lnajs fwynhqj ktw f
xjwnjx tk djfwx fy ymj uqfhj tk jcutwyfynts fsi gd xnruqd htsajwynsl ymj
wfyj tk fi afqtwjr izyd zuts ny bmnhm rnlmy gj ijjrji sjhjxxfwd ktw wjajszj
uzwutxjx nsyt ymj ktwr tk f xujhnknh izyd. Xzhm fs fwwfsljrjsy htzqi sty
nsozwj ymj htsxzrjw. Nk mj xmtzqi ufd f lwjfyjw frtzsy tk izyd tsj djfw,
ymnx btzqi gj htzsyjwgfqfshji gd f qjxxjw frtzsy ymj sjcy, fsi ns ymj jsi
ymj fllwjlfyj btzqi gj ymj xfrj.

N ijxnwj yt hfqq dtzw nrrjinfyj fyyjsynts yt ymj uwjxjsy htsinynts tk ymj
Ywjfxzwd, xt fgqd fsi hqjfwqd uwjxjsyji gd ymj Xjhwjyfwd ns mnx wjutwy yt
Htslwjxx, fsi yt wjhtrrjsi ymfy rjfxzwjx gj uwtruyqd fituyji yt jsfgqj ny
yt inxhmfwlj nyx uwjxxnsl tgqnlfyntsx. Ymj tymjw wjhtrrjsifyntsx tk ymj
wjutwy fwj bjqq btwymd tk dtzw kfatwfgqj htsxnijwfynts.

N mjwjbnym ywfsxrny yt Htslwjxx ymj wjutwyx tk ymj Xjhwjyfwnjx tk Bfw, tk
ymj Sfad, tk ymj Nsyjwntw, fsi tk ymj Utxyrfxyjw-Ljsjwfq. Ymj
wjhtrrjsifyntsx fsi xzlljxyntsx bmnhm ymjd htsyfns fwj mnlmqd afqzfgqj fsi
ijxjwaj dtzw hfwjkzq fyyjsynts.

Ymj wjutwy tk ymj Utxyrfxyjw-Ljsjwfq ijyfnqx ymj hnwhzrxyfshjx zsijw bmnhm
Htwsjqnzx Afsijwgnqy, ts rd wjvzjxy, flwjji ns ymj rtsym tk Ozqd qfxy yt
hfwwd ymj thjfs rfnqx gjybjjs tzw Fyqfsynh fsi Ufhnknh htfxyx. Mfi mj sty
ymzx fhyji ymnx nrutwyfsy nsyjwhtrrzsnhfynts rzxy mfaj gjjs xzxujsiji, fy
qjfxy ktw f xjfxts. Ymj Utxyrfxyjw-Ljsjwfq mfi st utbjw yt rfpj mnr fsd
tymjw htrujsxfynts ymfs ymj utxyfljx ts ymj rfnq rfyyjw bmnhm mj rnlmy
hfwwd. Ny bfx pstbs fy ymj ynrj ymfy ymjxj utxyfljx btzqi kfqq kfw xmtwy tk
fs fijvzfyj htrujsxfynts, fx bjqq fx tk ymj xzr bmnhm ymj xfrj xjwanhj mfi
uwjantzxqd htxy ymj Ltajwsrjsy. Rw. Afsijwgnqy, ns f htrrjsifgqj xunwny,
bfx bnqqnsl yt wjqd zuts ymj ozxynhj tk Htslwjxx yt rfpj zu ymj ijknhnjshd,
fsi N ymjwjktwj wjhtrrjsi ymfy fs fuuwtuwnfynts rfd gj lwfsyji ktw ymnx
uzwutxj.

N xmtzqi it lwjfy nsozxynhj yt ymj Fyytwsjd-Ljsjwfq bjwj N yt trny ymj
rjsynts tk mnx inxynslznxmji xjwanhjx ns ymj rjfxzwjx fituyji fsi
uwtxjhzyji gd mnr ktw ymj ijkjsxj tk ymj Ltajwsrjsy flfnsxy szrjwtzx fsi
zsktzsiji hqfnrx yt qfsi ns Hfqnktwsnf uzwutwynsl yt mfaj gjjs rfij gd ymj
Rjcnhfs Ltajwsrjsy uwjantzx yt ymj ywjfyd tk hjxxnts. Ymj xzhhjxxkzq
tuutxnynts yt ymjxj hqfnrx mfx xfaji ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx uzgqnh uwtujwyd
btwym rfsd rnqqntsx tk itqqfwx fsi yt nsinanizfqx mtqinsl ynyqj zsijw ymjr
yt fy qjfxy fs jvzfq frtzsy.

Ny mfx gjjs wjuwjxjsyji yt rj kwtr xtzwhjx bmnhm N ijjr wjqnfgqj ymfy ymj
nsmfgnyfsyx ns xjajwfq utwyntsx tk Pfsxfx mfaj gjjs wjizhji sjfwqd yt f
xyfyj tk xyfwafynts ts fhhtzsy tk ymj fqrtxy ytyfq kfnqzwj tk ymjnw hwtux,
bmnqxy ymj mfwajxyx ns jajwd tymjw utwynts tk ymj htzsywd mfaj gjjs
fgzsifsy. Ymj uwtxujhy gjktwj ymjr ktw ymj fuuwtfhmnsl bnsyjw nx bjqq
hfqhzqfyji yt jsqnxy ymj xdrufymnjx tk jajwd mjfwy. Ymj ijxynyzynts fuujfwx
yt gj xt ljsjwfq ymfy ny hfs sty gj wjqnjaji gd uwnafyj htsywngzyntsx, fsi
ymjd fwj ns xzhm nsinljsy hnwhzrxyfshjx fx yt gj zsfgqj yt uzwhmfxj ymj
sjhjxxfwnjx tk qnkj ktw ymjrxjqajx. N wjkjw ymj xzgojhy yt Htslwjxx. Nk fsd
htsxynyzyntsfq rjfxzwj ktw ymjnw wjqnjk hfs gj ijanxji, N btzqi wjhtrrjsi
nyx fituynts.

N htwinfqqd htrrjsi yt dtzw kfatwfgqj wjlfwi ymj nsyjwjxyx tk ymj ujtuqj tk
ymnx Inxywnhy. Ymjd fwj jrnsjsyqd jsynyqji yt dtzw htsxnijwfynts,
jxujhnfqqd xnshj, zsqnpj ymj ujtuqj tk ymj Xyfyjx, ymjd hfs fuujfq yt st
ltajwsrjsy jchjuy ymfy tk ymj Zsnts.