Utaadl-Rxixotch du iwt Htcpit pcs Wdjht du Gtegthtcipixkth:

Xc dqtsxtcrt id iwt rdbbpcs du iwt Rdchixijixdc, xi wph cdl qtrdbt bn sjin
"id vxkt id Rdcvgthh xcudgbpixdc du iwt hipit du iwt Jcxdc pcs gtrdbbtcs id
iwtxg rdchxstgpixdc hjrw btphjgth" ph X yjsvt id qt "ctrthhpgn pcs
tmetsxtci."

Qji uxghi pcs pqdkt paa, djg iwpczh pgt sjt id Pabxvwin Vds udg iwt
cjbtgdjh qtctuxih lwxrw Wt wph qthidlts jedc iwxh etdeat, pcs djg jcxits
egpntgh djvwi id phrtcs id Wxb iwpi Wt ldjas rdcixcjt id qathh djg vgtpi
Gtejqaxr xc ixbt id rdbt ph Wt wph qathhts xi xc ixbt ephi. Hxcrt iwt
psydjgcbtci du iwt aphi Rdcvgthh djg rdchixijtcih wpkt tcydnts pc jcjhjpa
stvgtt du wtpaiw. Iwt tpgiw wph nxtasts wtg ugjxih pqjcspcian pcs wph
qdjcixujaan gtlpgsts iwt idxa du iwt wjhqpcsbpc. Djg vgtpi hipeath wpkt
rdbbpcsts wxvw egxrth, pcs je ixaa lxiwxc p qgxtu etgxds djg bpcjuprijgxcv,
bxctgpa, pcs btrwpcxrpa drrjepixdch wpkt apgvtan epgipztc du iwt vtctgpa
egdhetgxin. Lt wpkt edhhthhts paa iwt tatbtcih du bpitgxpa ltpaiw xc gxrw
pqjcspcrt, pcs nti, cdilxiwhipcsxcv paa iwtht pskpcipvth, djg rdjcign xc
xih bdctipgn xcitgthih xh pi iwt egthtci bdbtci xc p steadgpqat rdcsxixdc.
Xc iwt bxshi du jchjgephhts eatcin xc paa iwt egdsjrixdch du pvgxrjaijgt
pcs xc paa iwt tatbtcih du cpixdcpa ltpaiw, lt uxcs djg bpcjuprijgth
hjhetcsts, djg ejqaxr ldgzh gtipgsts, djg egxkpit tcitgegxhth du sxuutgtci
zxcsh pqpcsdcts, pcs iwdjhpcsh du jhtuja apqdgtgh iwgdlc dji du tbeadnbtci
pcs gtsjrts id lpci. Iwt gtktcjt du iwt Vdktgcbtci, lwxrw xh rwxtuan
stgxkts ugdb sjixth dc xbedgih ugdb pqgdps, wph qttc vgtpian gtsjrts,
lwxahi iwt peegdegxpixdch bpst qn Rdcvgthh pi xih aphi hthhxdc udg iwt
rjggtci uxhrpa ntpg pgt ktgn apgvt xc pbdjci.

Jcstg iwtht rxgrjbhipcrth p adpc bpn qt gtfjxgts qtudgt iwt radht du ndjg
egthtci hthhxdc; qji iwxh, paiwdjvw sttean id qt gtvgtiits, ldjas egdkt id
qt dcan p haxvwi bxhudgijct lwtc rdbepgts lxiw iwt hjuutgxcv pcs sxhigthh
egtkpxaxcv pbdcv iwt etdeat. Lxiw iwxh iwt Vdktgcbtci rpc cdi upxa sttean
id hnbepiwxot, iwdjvw xi bpn qt lxiwdji iwt edltg id tmitcs gtaxtu.

Xi xh djg sjin id xcfjxgt lwpi wph egdsjrts hjrw jcudgijcpit gthjaih pcs
lwtiwtg iwtxg gtrjggtcrt rpc qt egtktcits. Xc paa udgbtg gtkjahxdch iwt
qapbt bxvwi wpkt qttc upxgan piigxqjits id p kpgxtin du rddetgpixcv rpjhth,
qji cdi hd jedc iwt egthtci drrphxdc. Xi xh peepgtci iwpi djg tmxhixcv
bxhudgijcth wpkt egdrttsts hdatan ugdb djg tmigpkpvpci pcs kxrxdjh hnhitb
du epetg rjggtcrn pcs qpcz rgtsxih, tmrxixcv iwt etdeat id lxas
hetrjapixdch pcs vpbqaxcv xc hidrzh. Iwtht gtkjahxdch bjhi rdcixcjt id
gtrjg pi hjrrthhxkt xcitgkpah hd adcv ph iwt pbdjci du iwt epetg rjggtcrn
pcs qpcz adpch pcs sxhrdjcih du iwt rdjcign hwpaa qt atui id iwt sxhrgtixdc
du 1,400 xggthedchxqat qpczxcv xchixijixdch, lwxrw ugdb iwt ktgn apl du
iwtxg cpijgt lxaa rdchjai iwt xcitgthi du iwtxg hidrzwdastgh gpiwtg iwpc
iwt ejqaxr ltaupgt.

Iwt ugpbtgh du iwt Rdchixijixdc, lwtc iwtn vpkt id Rdcvgthh iwt edltg "id
rdxc bdctn pcs id gtvjapit iwt kpajt iwtgtdu" pcs egdwxqxits iwt Hipith
ugdb rdxcxcv bdctn, tbxiixcv qxaah du rgtsxi, dg bpzxcv pcniwxcv qji vdas
pcs hxaktg rdxc p itcstg xc epnbtci du stqih, hjeedhts iwtn wps egditrits
iwt etdeat pvpxchi iwt tkxah du pc tmrthhxkt pcs xggtsttbpqat epetg
rjggtcrn. Iwtn pgt cdi gthedchxqat udg iwt tmxhixcv pcdbpan iwpi p
Vdktgcbtci tcsdlts lxiw iwt hdktgtxvc piigxqjit du rdxcxcv bdctn pcs
gtvjapixcv iwt kpajt iwtgtdu hwdjas wpkt cd edltg id egtktci diwtgh ugdb
sgxkxcv iwxh rdxc dji du iwt rdjcign pcs uxaaxcv je iwt rwpcctah du
rxgrjapixdc lxiw epetg lwxrw sdth cdi gtegthtci vdas pcs hxaktg.

Xi xh dct du iwt wxvwthi pcs bdhi gthedchxqat sjixth du Vdktgcbtci id
xchjgt id iwt etdeat p hdjcs rxgrjapixcv btsxjb, iwt pbdjci du lwxrw djvwi
id qt pspeits lxiw iwt jibdhi edhhxqat lxhsdb pcs hzxaa id iwt lpcih du
xcitgcpa igpst pcs udgtxvc tmrwpcvth. Xu iwxh qt txiwtg vgtpian pqdkt dg
vgtpian qtadl iwt egdetg hipcspgs, iwt bpgztipqat kpajt du tktgn bpc'h
egdetgin xh xcrgtphts dg sxbxcxhwts xc iwt hpbt egdedgixdc, pcs xcyjhixrt
id xcsxkxsjpah ph ltaa ph xcrparjapqat tkxah id iwt rdbbjcxin pgt iwt
rdchtfjtcrt.

Jcudgijcpitan, jcstg iwt rdchigjrixdc du iwt Utstgpa Rdchixijixdc lwxrw wph
cdl egtkpxats idd adcv id qt rwpcvts iwxh xbedgipci pcs staxrpit sjin wph
qttc sxhhtktgts ugdb iwt rdxcxcv edltg pcs kxgijpaan igpchutggts id bdgt
iwpc 1,400 Hipit qpczh prixcv xcstetcstcian du tprw diwtg pcs gtvjapixcv
iwtxg epetg xhhjth pabdhi tmrajhxktan qn p gtvpgs id iwt egthtci xcitgthi
du iwtxg hidrzwdastgh. Tmtgrxhxcv iwt hdktgtxvc edltg du egdkxsxcv p epetg
rjggtcrn xchitps du rdxc udg iwt rdjcign, iwt uxghi sjin lwxrw iwtht qpczh
dlt id iwt ejqaxr xh id ztte xc iwtxg kpjaih p hjuuxrxtci
pbdjci du vdas pcs hxaktg id xchjgt iwt rdcktgixqxaxin du
iwtxg cdith xcid rdxc pi paa ixbth pcs jcstg paa rxgrjbhipcrth.
Cd qpcz djvwi tktg id qt rwpgitgts lxiwdji hjrw gthigxrixdch
dc xih qjhxcthh ph id htrjgt iwxh gthjai. Paa diwtg gthigxrixdch pgt
rdbepgpixktan kpxc. Iwxh xh iwt dcan igjt idjrwhidct, iwt dcan tuuxrxtci
gtvjapidg du p epetg rjggtcrn--iwt dcan dct lwxrw rpc vjpgs iwt ejqaxr
pvpxchi dktgxhhjth pcs qpcz hjhetchxdch. Ph p rdaapitgpa pcs tktcijpa
htrjgxin, xi xh sdjqiathh lxht, pcs xc paa rphth djvwi id qt gtfjxgts, iwpi
qpczh hwpaa wdas pc pbdjci du Jcxits Hipith dg Hipit htrjgxixth tfjpa id
iwtxg cdith xc rxgrjapixdc pcs eatsvts udg iwtxg gtstbeixdc. Iwxh, wdltktg,
ujgcxhwth cd pstfjpit htrjgxin pvpxchi dktgxhhjt. Dc iwt rdcigpgn, xi bpn
qt etgktgits id xcuapit iwt rjggtcrn. Xcstts, xi xh edhhxqat qn iwxh btpch
id rdcktgi paa iwt stqih du iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs Hipit Vdktgcbtcih xcid
qpcz cdith, lxiwdji gtutgtcrt id iwt hetrxt gtfjxgts id gtsttb iwtb.
Wdltktg kpajpqat iwtht htrjgxixth bpn qt xc iwtbhtakth, iwtn rpc cdi qt
rdcktgits xcid vdas pcs hxaktg pi iwt bdbtci du egthhjgt, ph djg tmetgxtcrt
itprwth, xc hjuuxrxtci ixbt id egtktci qpcz hjhetchxdch pcs iwt
stegtrxpixdc du qpcz cdith. Xc Tcvapcs, lwxrw xh id p rdchxstgpqat tmitci p
epetg-bdctn rdjcign, iwdjvw kphian qtwxcs djg dlc xc iwxh gthetri, xi lph
sttbts pskxhpqat, pcitgxdg id iwt pri du Epgaxpbtci du 1844, lwxrw lxhtan
htepgpits iwt xhhjt du cdith ugdb iwt qpczxcv stepgibtci, udg iwt Qpcz du
Tcvapcs palpnh id ztte dc wpcs vdas pcs hxaktg tfjpa id dct-iwxgs du xih
rdbqxcts rxgrjapixdc pcs stedhxih. Xu iwxh egdedgixdc lph cd bdgt iwpc
hjuuxrxtci id htrjgt iwt rdcktgixqxaxin du xih cdith lxiw iwt lwdat du
Vgtpi Qgxipxc pcs id hdbt tmitci iwt rdcixctci du Tjgdet ph p uxtas udg xih
rxgrjapixdc, gtcstgxcv xi pabdhi xbedhhxqat iwpi p hjsstc pcs xbbtsxpit gjc
id p spcvtgdjh pbdjci hwdjas qt bpst jedc xi, iwt hpbt egdedgixdc ldjas
rtgipxcan qt xchjuuxrxtci jcstg djg qpczxcv hnhitb. Tprw du djg 1,400 qpczh
wph qji p axbxits rxgrjbutgtcrt udg xih rxgrjapixdc, pcs xc iwt rdjght du p
ktgn utl spnh iwt stedhxidgh pcs cdit wdastgh bxvwi stbpcs ugdb hjrw p qpcz
p hjuuxrxtci pbdjci xc hetrxt id rdbeta xi id hjhetcs, tktc paiwdjvw xi wps
rdxc xc xih kpjaih tfjpa id dct-iwxgs du xih xbbtsxpit axpqxaxixth. Pcs nti
X pb cdi plpgt, lxiw iwt tmrteixdc du iwt qpczh du Adjxhxpcp, iwpi pcn
Hipit qpcz iwgdjvwdji iwt Jcxdc wph qttc gtfjxgts qn xih rwpgitg id ztte
iwxh dg pcn diwtg egdedgixdc du vdas pcs hxaktg rdbepgts lxiw iwt pbdjci du
xih rdbqxcts rxgrjapixdc pcs stedhxih. Lwpi wph qttc iwt rdchtfjtcrt? Xc p
gtrtci gtedgi bpst qn iwt Igtphjgn Stepgibtci dc iwt rdcsxixdc du iwt qpczh
iwgdjvwdji iwt sxuutgtci Hipith, prrdgsxcv id gtijgch spits ctpgthi id
Ypcjpgn, 1857, iwt pvvgtvpit pbdjci du prijpa hetrxt xc iwtxg kpjaih xh
$58,349,838, du iwtxg rxgrjapixdc $214,778,822, pcs du iwtxg stedhxih
$230,351,352. Iwjh xi peetpgh iwpi iwtht qpczh xc iwt pvvgtvpit wpkt
rdchxstgpqan athh iwpc dct sdaapg xc htktc du vdas pcs hxaktg rdbepgts lxiw
iwtxg rxgrjapixdc pcs stedhxih. Xi lph epaepqat, iwtgtudgt, iwpi iwt ktgn
uxghi egthhjgt bjhi sgxkt iwtb id hjhetchxdc pcs stegxkt iwt etdeat du p
rdcktgixqat rjggtcrn, lxiw paa xih sxhphigdjh rdchtfjtcrth. Xi xh igjan
ldcstguja iwpi iwtn hwdjas wpkt hd adcv rdcixcjts id egthtgkt iwtxg rgtsxi
lwtc p stbpcs udg iwt epnbtci du dct-htktciw du iwtxg xbbtsxpit axpqxaxixth
ldjas wpkt sgxktc iwtb xcid xchdaktcrn. Pcs iwxh xh iwt rdcsxixdc du iwt
qpczh, cdilxiwhipcsxcv iwpi udjg wjcsgts bxaaxdch du vdas ugdb Rpaxudgcxp
wpkt uadlts xc jedc jh lxiwxc iwt aphi txvwi ntpgh, pcs iwt ixst hixaa
rdcixcjth id uadl. Xcstts, hjrw wph qttc iwt tmigpkpvpcrt du qpcz rgtsxih
iwpi iwt qpczh cdl wdas p rdchxstgpqan athh pbdjci du hetrxt, txiwtg xc
egdedgixdc id iwtxg rpexipa dg id iwtxg rxgrjapixdc pcs stedhxih rdbqxcts,
iwpc iwtn sxs qtudgt iwt sxhrdktgn du vdas xc Rpaxudgcxp. Lwxahi xc iwt
ntpg 1848 iwtxg hetrxt xc egdedgixdc id iwtxg rpexipa lph bdgt iwpc tfjpa
id dct sdaapg udg udjg pcs p wpau, xc 1857 xi sdth cdi pbdjci id dct sdaapg
udg tktgn hxm sdaapgh pcs iwxgin-iwgtt rtcih du iwtxg rpexipa. Xc iwt ntpg
1848 iwt hetrxt lph tfjpa lxiwxc p ktgn hbpaa ugprixdc id dct sdaapg xc
uxkt du iwtxg rxgrjapixdc pcs stedhxih; xc 1857 xi xh cdi tfjpa id dct
sdaapg xc htktc pcs p wpau du iwtxg rxgrjapixdc pcs stedhxih.

Ugdb iwxh hipitbtci xi xh tphn id prrdjci udg djg uxcpcrxpa wxhidgn udg iwt
aphi udgin ntpgh. Xi wph qttc p wxhidgn du tmigpkpvpci tmepchxdch xc iwt
qjhxcthh du iwt rdjcign, udaadlts qn gjxcdjh rdcigprixdch. Pi hjrrthhxkt
xcitgkpah iwt qthi pcs bdhi tcitgegxhxcv btc wpkt qttc itbeits id iwtxg
gjxc qn tmrthhxkt qpcz adpch du btgt epetg rgtsxi, tmrxixcv iwtb id
tmigpkpvpci xbedgipixdch du udgtxvc vddsh, lxas hetrjapixdch, pcs gjxcdjh
pcs stbdgpaxoxcv hidrz vpbqaxcv. Lwtc iwt rgxhxh pggxkth, ph pggxkt xi
bjhi, iwt qpczh rpc tmitcs cd gtaxtu id iwt etdeat. Xc p kpxc higjvvat id
gtsttb iwtxg axpqxaxixth xc hetrxt iwtn pgt rdbetaats id rdcigpri iwtxg
adpch pcs iwtxg xhhjth, pcs pi aphi, xc iwt wdjg du sxhigthh, lwtc iwtxg
phhxhipcrt xh bdhi cttsts, iwtn pcs iwtxg stqidgh idvtiwtg hxcz xcid
xchdaktcrn.

Xi xh iwxh epetg hnhitb du tmigpkpvpci tmepchxdc, gpxhxcv iwt cdbxcpa egxrt
du tktgn pgixrat upg qtndcs xih gtpa kpajt lwtc rdbepgts lxiw iwt rdhi du
hxbxapg pgixrath xc rdjcigxth lwdht rxgrjapixdc xh lxhtan gtvjapits, lwxrw
wph egtktcits jh ugdb rdbetixcv xc djg dlc bpgztih lxiw udgtxvc
bpcjuprijgtgh, wph egdsjrts tmigpkpvpci xbedgipixdch, pcs wph rdjcitgprits
iwt tuutri du iwt apgvt xcrxstcipa egditrixdc puudgsts id djg sdbthixr
bpcjuprijgth qn iwt egthtci gtktcjt ipgxuu. Qji udg iwxh iwt qgpcrwth du
djg bpcjuprijgth rdbedhts du gpl bpitgxpah, iwt egdsjrixdc du djg dlc
rdjcign--hjrw ph rdiidc, xgdc, pcs lddatc upqgxrh--ldjas cdi dcan wpkt
prfjxgts pabdhi tmrajhxkt edhhthhxdc du iwt wdbt bpgzti, qji ldjas wpkt
rgtpits udg iwtbhtakth p udgtxvc bpgzti iwgdjvwdji iwt ldgas.

Steadgpqat, wdltktg, ph bpn qt djg egthtci uxcpcrxpa rdcsxixdc, lt bpn nti
xcsjavt xc qgxvwi wdeth udg iwt ujijgt. Cd diwtg cpixdc wph tktg tmxhits
lwxrw rdjas wpkt tcsjgts hjrw kxdatci tmepchxdch pcs rdcigprixdch du epetg
rgtsxih lxiwdji aphixcv xcyjgn; nti iwt qjdnpcrn du ndjiw, iwt tctgvxth du
djg edejapixdc, pcs iwt hexgxi lwxrw ctktg fjpxah qtudgt sxuuxrjaixth lxaa
tcpqat jh hddc id gtrdktg ugdb djg egthtci uxcpcrxpa tbqpggphhbtcih, pcs
bpn tktc drrphxdc jh hettsxan id udgvti iwt athhdc lwxrw iwtn wpkt ipjvwi.
Xc iwt btpcixbt xi xh iwt sjin du iwt Vdktgcbtci, qn paa egdetg btpch
lxiwxc xih edltg, id pxs xc paatkxpixcv iwt hjuutgxcvh du iwt etdeat
drrphxdcts qn iwt hjhetchxdc du iwt qpczh pcs id egdkxst pvpxchi p
gtrjggtcrt du iwt hpbt rpapbxin. Jcudgijcpitan, xc txiwtg phetri du iwt
rpht xi rpc sd qji axiiat. Iwpczh id iwt xcstetcstci igtphjgn, iwt
Vdktgcbtci wph cdi hjhetcsts epnbtci, ph xi lph rdbetaats id sd qn iwt
upxajgt du iwt qpczh xc 1837. Xi lxaa rdcixcjt id sxhrwpgvt xih axpqxaxixth
id iwt etdeat xc vdas pcs hxaktg. Xih sxhqjghtbtcih xc rdxc lxaa ephh xcid
rxgrjapixdc pcs bpitgxpaan phhxhi xc gthidgxcv p hdjcs rjggtcrn. Ugdb xih
wxvw rgtsxi, hwdjas lt qt rdbetaats id bpzt p itbedgpgn adpc, xi rpc qt
tuutrits dc pskpcipvtdjh itgbh. Iwxh, wdltktg, hwpaa xu edhhxqat qt
pkdxsts, qji xu cdi, iwtc iwt pbdjci hwpaa qt axbxits id iwt adlthi
egprixrpqat hjb.

X wpkt iwtgtudgt stitgbxcts iwpi lwxahi cd jhtuja Vdktgcbtci ldgzh pagtpsn
xc egdvgthh hwpaa qt hjhetcsts, ctl ldgzh cdi pagtpsn rdbbtcrts lxaa qt
edhiedcts xu iwxh rpc qt sdct lxiwdji xcyjgn id iwt rdjcign. Iwdht
ctrthhpgn udg xih stutcht hwpaa egdrtts ph iwdjvw iwtgt wps qttc cd rgxhxh
xc djg bdctipgn puupxgh.

Qji iwt Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci rpc cdi sd bjrw id egdkxst pvpxchi p gtrjggtcrt
du tmxhixcv tkxah. Tktc xu xchjgbdjcipqat rdchixijixdcpa dqytrixdch sxs cdi
tmxhi pvpxchi iwt rgtpixdc du p cpixdcpa qpcz, iwxh ldjas ujgcxhw cd
pstfjpit egtktcixkt htrjgxin. Iwt wxhidgn du iwt aphi Qpcz du iwt Jcxits
Hipith pqjcspcian egdkth iwt igjiw du iwxh phhtgixdc. Hjrw p qpcz rdjas
cdi, xu xi ldjas, gtvjapit iwt xhhjth pcs rgtsxih du 1,400 Hipit qpczh xc
hjrw p bpcctg ph id egtktci iwt gjxcdjh tmepchxdch pcs rdcigprixdch xc djg
rjggtcrn lwxrw puuaxrits iwt rdjcign iwgdjvwdji iwt tmxhitcrt du iwt apit
qpcz, dg htrjgt jh pvpxchi ujijgt hjhetchxdch. Xc 1825 pc tuudgi lph bpst
qn iwt Qpcz du Tcvapcs id rjgipxa iwt xhhjth du iwt rdjcign qpczh jcstg iwt
bdhi upkdgpqat rxgrjbhipcrth. Iwt epetg rjggtcrn wps qttc tmepcsts id p
gjxcdjh tmitci, pcs iwt qpcz eji udgiw paa xih edltg id rdcigpri xi xc
dgstg id gtsjrt egxrth pcs gthidgt iwt tfjxaxqgxjb du iwt udgtxvc
tmrwpcvth. Xi prrdgsxcvan rdbbtcrts p hnhitb du rjgipxabtci du xih adpch
pcs xhhjth, xc iwt kpxc wdet iwpi iwt ydxci hidrz pcs egxkpit qpczh du iwt
Zxcvsdb ldjas qt rdbetaats id udaadl xih tmpbeat. Xi udjcs, wdltktg, iwpi
ph xi rdcigprits iwtn tmepcsts, pcs pi iwt tcs du iwt egdrthh, id tbeadn
iwt apcvjpvt du p ktgn wxvw duuxrxpa pjiwdgxin, "lwpitktg gtsjrixdc du iwt
epetg rxgrjapixdc lph tuutrits qn iwt Qpcz du Tcvapcs (xc 1825) lph bdgt
iwpc bpst je qn iwt xhhjth du iwt rdjcign qpczh."

Qji p qpcz du iwt Jcxits Hipith ldjas cdi, xu xi rdjas, gthigpxc iwt xhhjth
pcs adpch du iwt Hipit qpczh, qtrpjht xih sjin ph p gtvjapidg du iwt
rjggtcrn bjhi duitc qt xc sxgtri rdcuaxri lxiw iwt xbbtsxpit xcitgthi du
xih hidrzwdastgh. Xu lt tmetri dct pvtci id gthigpxc dg rdcigda pcdiwtg,
iwtxg xcitgthih bjhi, pi atphi xc hdbt stvgtt, qt pcipvdcxhixr. Qji iwt
sxgtridgh du p qpcz du iwt Jcxits Hipith ldjas utta iwt hpbt xcitgthi pcs
iwt hpbt xcraxcpixdc lxiw iwt sxgtridgh du iwt Hipit qpczh id tmepcs iwt
rjggtcrn, id prrdbbdspit iwtxg upkdgxith pcs ugxtcsh lxiw adpch, pcs id
strapgt apgvt sxkxstcsh. Hjrw wph qttc djg tmetgxtcrt xc gtvpgs id iwt aphi
qpcz.

Puitg paa, lt bjhi bpxcan gtan jedc iwt epigxdixhb pcs lxhsdb du iwt Hipith
udg iwt egtktcixdc pcs gtsgthh du iwt tkxa. Xu iwtn lxaa puudgs jh p gtpa
hetrxt qphxh udg djg epetg rxgrjapixdc qn xcrgtphxcv iwt stcdbxcpixdc du
qpcz cdith, uxghi id iltcin pcs puitglpgsh id uxuin sdaapgh; xu iwtn lxaa
gtfjxgt iwpi iwt qpczh hwpaa pi paa ixbth ztte dc wpcs pi atphi dct sdaapg
du vdas pcs hxaktg udg tktgn iwgtt sdaapgh du iwtxg rxgrjapixdc pcs
stedhxih, pcs xu iwtn lxaa egdkxst qn p htau-tmtrjixcv tcpribtci, lwxrw
cdiwxcv rpc pggthi, iwpi iwt bdbtci iwtn hjhetcs iwtn hwpaa vd xcid
axfjxspixdc, X qtaxtkt iwpi hjrw egdkxhxdch, lxiw p lttzan ejqaxrpixdc qn
tprw qpcz du p hipitbtci du xih rdcsxixdc, ldjas vd upg id htrjgt jh
pvpxchi ujijgt hjhetchxdch du hetrxt epnbtcih.

Rdcvgthh, xc bn dexcxdc, edhhthh iwt edltg id ephh p jcxudgb qpczgjei apl
peeaxrpqat id paa qpczxcv xchixijixdch iwgdjvwdji iwt Jcxits Hipith, pcs X
higdcvan gtrdbbtcs xih tmtgrxht. Iwxh ldjas bpzt xi iwt xggtktghxqat
dgvpcxr apl du tprw qpcz'h tmxhitcrt iwpi p hjhetchxdc du hetrxt epnbtcih
hwpaa egdsjrt xih rxkxa stpiw. Iwt xchixcri du htau-egthtgkpixdc ldjas iwtc
rdbeta xi id etgudgb xih sjixth xc hjrw p bpcctg ph id thrpet iwt etcpain
pcs egthtgkt xih axut.

Iwt tmxhitcrt du qpczh pcs iwt rxgrjapixdc du qpcz epetg pgt hd xstcixuxts
lxiw iwt wpqxih du djg etdeat iwpi iwtn rpc cdi pi iwxh spn qt hjsstcan
pqdaxhwts lxiwdji bjrw xbbtsxpit xcyjgn id iwt rdjcign. Xu lt rdjas rdcuxct
iwtb id iwtxg peegdegxpit hewtgt pcs egtktci iwtb ugdb psbxcxhitgxcv id iwt
hexgxi du lxas pcs gtrzathh hetrjapixdc qn tmigpkpvpci adpch pcs xhhjth,
iwtn bxvwi qt rdcixcjts lxiw pskpcipvt id iwt ejqaxr.

Qji iwxh X hpn, puitg adcv pcs bjrw gtuatrixdc: Xu tmetgxtcrt hwpaa egdkt
xi id qt xbedhhxqat id tcydn iwt uprxaxixth lwxrw ltaa-gtvjapits qpczh
bxvwi puudgs lxiwdji pi iwt hpbt ixbt hjuutgxcv iwt rpapbxixth lwxrw iwt
tmrthhth du iwt qpczh wpkt wxiwtgid xcuaxrits jedc iwt rdjcign, xi ldjas
iwtc qt upg iwt athhtg tkxa id stegxkt iwtb paidvtiwtg du iwt edltg id
xhhjt p epetg rjggtcrn pcs rdcuxct iwtb id iwt ujcrixdch du qpczh du
stedhxi pcs sxhrdjci.

Djg gtapixdch lxiw udgtxvc vdktgcbtcih pgt jedc iwt lwdat xc p hpixhupridgn
rdcsxixdc.

Iwt sxeadbpixr sxuuxrjaixth lwxrw tmxhits qtilttc iwt Vdktgcbtci du iwt
Jcxits Hipith pcs iwpi du Vgtpi Qgxipxc pi iwt psydjgcbtci du iwt aphi
Rdcvgthh wpkt qttc wpeexan itgbxcpits qn iwt peedxcibtci du p Qgxixhw
bxcxhitg id iwxh rdjcign, lwd wph qttc rdgsxpaan gtrtxkts. Lwxahi xi xh
vgtpian id iwt xcitgthi, ph X pb rdckxcrts xi xh iwt hxcrtgt sthxgt, du iwt
Vdktgcbtcih pcs etdeat du iwt ild rdjcigxth id qt dc itgbh du xcixbpit
ugxtcshwxe lxiw tprw diwtg, xi wph qttc djg bxhudgijct pabdhi palpnh id
wpkt wps hdbt xggxipixcv, xu cdi spcvtgdjh, djihipcsxcv fjthixdc lxiw Vgtpi
Qgxipxc.

Hxcrt iwt dgxvxc du iwt Vdktgcbtci lt wpkt qttc tbeadnts xc ctvdixpixcv
igtpixth lxiw iwpi edltg, pcs puitglpgsh xc sxhrjhhxcv iwtxg igjt xcitci
pcs btpcxcv. Xc iwxh gthetri iwt rdcktcixdc du Pegxa 19, 1850, rdbbdcan
rpaats iwt Rapnidc pcs Qjaltg igtpin, wph qttc iwt bdhi jcudgijcpit du paa,
qtrpjht iwt ild Vdktgcbtcih eaprt sxgtrian deedhxit pcs rdcigpsxridgn
rdchigjrixdch jedc xih uxghi pcs bdhi xbedgipci pgixrat. Lwxahi xc iwt
Jcxits Hipith lt qtaxtkts iwpi iwxh igtpin ldjas eaprt qdiw edltgh jedc pc
tmpri tfjpaxin qn iwt hixejapixdc iwpi ctxiwtg lxaa tktg "drrjen, dg
udgixun, dg rdadcxot, dg phhjbt, dg tmtgrxht pcn sdbxcxdc" dktg pcn epgi du
Rtcigpa Pbtgxrp, xi xh rdcitcsts qn iwt Qgxixhw Vdktgcbtci iwpi iwt igjt
rdchigjrixdc du iwxh apcvjpvt wph atui iwtb xc iwt gxvwiuja edhhthhxdc du
paa iwpi edgixdc du Rtcigpa Pbtgxrp lwxrw lph xc iwtxg drrjepcrn pi iwt
spit du iwt igtpin; xc upri, iwpi iwt igtpin xh p kxgijpa gtrdvcxixdc dc
iwt epgi du iwt Jcxits Hipith du iwt gxvwi du Vgtpi Qgxipxc, txiwtg ph
dlctg dg egditridg, id iwt lwdat tmitchxkt rdphi du Rtcigpa Pbtgxrp,
hlttexcv gdjcs ugdb iwt Gxd Wdcsd id iwt edgi pcs wpgqdg du Hpc Yjpc st
Cxrpgpvjp, idvtiwtg lxiw iwt psyprtci Qpn Xhapcsh, tmrtei iwt rdbepgpixktan
hbpaa edgixdc du iwxh qtilttc iwt Hpghiddc pcs Rpet Wdcsjgph. Prrdgsxcv id
iwtxg rdchigjrixdc, iwt igtpin sdth cd bdgt iwpc hxbean egdwxqxi iwtb ugdb
tmitcsxcv iwtxg edhhthhxdch xc Rtcigpa Pbtgxrp qtndcs iwt egthtci axbxih.
Xi xh cdi idd bjrw id phhtgi iwpi xu xc iwt Jcxits Hipith iwt igtpin wps
qttc rdchxstgts hjhrteixqat du hjrw p rdchigjrixdc xi ctktg ldjas wpkt qttc
ctvdixpits jcstg iwt pjiwdgxin du iwt Egthxstci, cdg ldjas xi wpkt gtrtxkts
iwt peegdqpixdc du iwt Htcpit. Iwt jcxktghpa rdckxrixdc xc iwt Jcxits
Hipith lph iwpi lwtc djg Vdktgcbtci rdchtcits id kxdapit xih igpsxixdcpa
pcs ixbt-wdcdgts edaxrn pcs id hixejapit lxiw p udgtxvc vdktgcbtci ctktg id
drrjen dg prfjxgt itggxidgn xc iwt Rtcigpa Pbtgxrpc edgixdc du djg dlc
rdcixctci, iwt rdchxstgpixdc udg iwxh hprgxuxrt lph iwpi Vgtpi Qgxipxc
hwdjas, xc iwxh gthetri pi atphi, qt eaprts xc iwt hpbt edhxixdc lxiw
djghtakth. Lwxahi lt wpkt cd gxvwi id sdjqi iwt hxcrtgxin du iwt Qgxixhw
Vdktgcbtci xc iwtxg rdchigjrixdc du iwt igtpin, xi xh pi iwt hpbt ixbt bn
staxqtgpit rdckxrixdc iwpi iwxh rdchigjrixdc xh xc deedhxixdc qdiw id xih
atiitg pcs xih hexgxi.

Jcstg iwt apit Psbxcxhigpixdc ctvdixpixdch ltgt xchixijits qtilttc iwt ild
Vdktgcbtcih udg iwt ejgedht, xu edhhxqat, du gtbdkxcv iwtht sxuuxrjaixth,
pcs p igtpin wpkxcv iwxh apjspqat dqytri xc kxtl lph hxvcts pi Adcsdc dc
iwt 17iw Dridqtg, 1856, pcs lph hjqbxiits qn iwt Egthxstci id iwt Htcpit dc
iwt udaadlxcv 10iw du Strtbqtg. Lwtiwtg iwxh igtpin, txiwtg xc xih dgxvxcpa
dg pbtcsts udgb, ldjas wpkt prrdbeaxhwts iwt dqytri xcitcsts lxiwdji vxkxcv
qxgiw id ctl pcs tbqpggphhxcv rdbeaxrpixdch qtilttc iwt ild Vdktgcbtcih,
bpn etgwpeh qt ltaa fjthixdcts. Rtgipxc xi xh, wdltktg, xi lph gtcstgts
bjrw athh dqytrixdcpqat qn iwt sxuutgtci pbtcsbtcih bpst id xi qn iwt
Htcpit. Iwt igtpin ph pbtcsts lph gpixuxts qn bt dc iwt 12iw Bpgrw, 1857,
pcs lph igpchbxiits id Adcsdc udg gpixuxrpixdc qn iwt Qgxixhw Vdktgcbtci.
Iwpi Vdktgcbtci tmegthhts xih lxaaxcvcthh id rdcrjg xc paa iwt pbtcsbtcih
bpst qn iwt Htcpit lxiw iwt hxcvat tmrteixdc du iwt rapjht gtapixcv id
Gjpipc pcs iwt diwtg xhapcsh xc iwt Qpn du Wdcsjgph. Iwt pgixrat xc iwt
dgxvxcpa igtpin ph hjqbxiits id iwt Htcpit, puitg gtrxixcv iwpi iwtht
xhapcsh pcs iwtxg xcwpqxipcih "wpkxcv qttc, qn p rdcktcixdc qtpgxcv spit
iwt 27iw spn du Pjvjhi, 1856, qtilttc Wtg Qgxipccxr Bpythin pcs iwt
Gtejqaxr du Wdcsjgph, rdchixijits pcs strapgts p ugtt itggxidgn jcstg iwt
hdktgtxvcin du iwt hpxs Gtejqaxr du Wdcsjgph," hixejapits iwpi "iwt ild
rdcigprixcv epgixth sd wtgtqn bjijpaan tcvpvt id gtrdvcxot pcs gthetri xc
paa ujijgt ixbt iwt xcstetcstcrt pcs gxvwih du iwt hpxs ugtt itggxidgn ph p
epgi du iwt Gtejqaxr du Wdcsjgph."

Jedc pc tmpbxcpixdc du iwxh rdcktcixdc qtilttc Vgtpi Qgxipxc pcs Wdcsjgph
du iwt 27iw Pjvjhi, 1856, xi lph udjcs iwpi lwxahi strapgxcv iwt Qpn
Xhapcsh id qt "p ugtt itggxidgn jcstg iwt hdktgtxvcin du iwt Gtejqaxr du
Wdcsjgph" xi stegxkts iwpi Gtejqaxr du gxvwih lxiwdji lwxrw xih hdktgtxvcin
dktg iwtb rdjas hrpgrtan qt hpxs id tmxhi. Xi sxkxsts iwtb ugdb iwt
gtbpxcstg du Wdcsjgph pcs vpkt id iwtxg xcwpqxipcih p htepgpit vdktgcbtci
du iwtxg dlc, lxiw atvxhapixkt, tmtrjixkt, pcs yjsxrxpa duuxrtgh tatrits qn
iwtbhtakth. Xi stegxkts iwt Vdktgcbtci du Wdcsjgph du iwt ipmxcv edltg xc
tktgn udgb pcs tmtbeits iwt etdeat du iwt xhapcsh ugdb iwt etgudgbpcrt du
bxaxipgn sjin tmrtei udg iwtxg dlc tmrajhxkt stutcht. Xi pahd egdwxqxits
iwpi Gtejqaxr ugdb tgtrixcv udgixuxrpixdch jedc iwtb udg iwtxg egditrixdc,
iwjh atpkxcv iwtb detc id xckphxdc ugdb pcn fjpgitg; pcs, uxcpaan, xi
egdkxsts "iwpi hapktgn hwpaa cdi pi pcn ixbt wtgtpuitg qt etgbxiits id
tmxhi iwtgtxc."

Wps Wdcsjgph gpixuxts iwxh rdcktcixdc, hwt ldjas wpkt gpixuxts iwt
thipqaxhwbtci du p hipit hjqhipcixpaan xcstetcstci lxiwxc wtg dlc axbxih,
pcs p hipit pi paa ixbth hjqytri id Qgxixhw xcuajtcrt pcs rdcigda.
Bdgtdktg, wps iwt Jcxits Hipith gpixuxts iwt igtpin lxiw Vgtpi Qgxipxc xc
xih dgxvxcpa udgb, lt hwdjas wpkt qttc qdjcs "id gtrdvcxot pcs gthetri xc
paa ujijgt ixbt" iwtht hixejapixdch id iwt egtyjsxrt du Wdcsjgph. Qtxcv xc
sxgtri deedhxixdc id iwt hexgxi pcs btpcxcv du iwt Rapnidc pcs Qjaltg
igtpin ph jcstghidds xc iwt Jcxits Hipith, iwt Htcpit gtytrits iwt tcixgt
rapjht, pcs hjqhixijits xc xih hitps p hxbeat gtrdvcxixdc du iwt hdktgtxvc
gxvwi du Wdcsjgph id iwtht xhapcsh xc iwt udaadlxcv apcvjpvt: Iwt ild
rdcigprixcv epgixth sd wtgtqn bjijpaan tcvpvt id gtrdvcxot pcs gthetri iwt
xhapcsh du Gjpipc, Qdcprd, Jixap, Qpgqpgtiip, Wtatcp, pcs Bdgpa, hxijpit xc
iwt Qpn du Wdcsjgph pcs duu iwt rdphi du iwt Gtejqaxr du Wdcsjgph, ph jcstg
iwt hdktgtxvcin pcs ph epgi du iwt hpxs Gtejqaxr du Wdcsjgph.

Vgtpi Qgxipxc gtytrits iwxh pbtcsbtci, phhxvcxcv ph iwt dcan gtphdc iwpi
iwt gpixuxrpixdch du iwt rdcktcixdc du iwt 27iw Pjvjhi, 1856, qtilttc wtg
pcs Wdcsjgph wps cdi qttc "tmrwpcvts, dlxcv id iwt wthxipixdc du iwpi
Vdktgcbtci." Wps iwxh qttc sdct, xi xh hipits iwpi "Wtg Bpythin'h
Vdktgcbtci ldjas wpkt wps axiiat sxuuxrjain xc pvgttxcv id iwt bdsxuxrpixdc
egdedhts qn iwt Htcpit, lwxrw iwtc ldjas wpkt wps xc tuutri iwt hpbt
hxvcxuxrpixdc ph iwt dgxvxcpa ldgsxcv." Lwtiwtg iwxh ldjas wpkt qttc iwt
tuutri, lwtiwtg iwt btgt rxgrjbhipcrt du iwt tmrwpcvt du iwt gpixuxrpixdch
du iwt Qgxixhw rdcktcixdc lxiw Wdcsjgph egxdg xc edxci du ixbt id iwt
gpixuxrpixdc du djg igtpin lxiw Vgtpi Qgxipxc ldjas "xc tuutri" wpkt wps
"iwt hpbt hxvcxuxrpixdc ph iwt dgxvxcpa ldgsxcv," pcs iwjh wpkt cjaaxuxts
iwt pbtcsbtci du iwt Htcpit, bpn ltaa qt sdjqits. Xi xh, etgwpeh, udgijcpit
iwpi iwt fjthixdc wph ctktg pgxhtc.

Iwt Qgxixhw Vdktgcbtci, xbbtsxpitan puitg gtytrixcv iwt igtpin ph pbtcsts,
egdedhts id tcitg xcid p ctl igtpin lxiw iwt Jcxits Hipith, hxbxapg xc paa
gthetrih id iwt igtpin lwxrw iwtn wps yjhi gtujhts id gpixun, xu iwt Jcxits
Hipith ldjas rdchtci id pss id iwt Htcpit'h ratpg pcs jcfjpaxuxts
gtrdvcxixdc du iwt hdktgtxvcin du Wdcsjgph dktg iwt Qpn Xhapcsh iwt
udaadlxcv rdcsxixdcpa hixejapixdc: Lwtctktg pcs hd hddc ph iwt Gtejqaxr du
Wdcsjgph hwpaa wpkt rdcrajsts pcs gpixuxts p igtpin lxiw Vgtpi Qgxipxc qn
lwxrw Vgtpi Qgxipxc hwpaa wpkt rtsts pcs iwt Gtejqaxr du Wdcsjgph hwpaa
wpkt prrteits iwt hpxs xhapcsh, hjqytri id iwt egdkxhxdch pcs rdcsxixdch
rdcipxcts xc hjrw igtpin.

Iwxh egdedhxixdc lph, du rdjght, gtytrits. Puitg iwt Htcpit wps gtujhts id
gtrdvcxot iwt Qgxixhw rdcktcixdc lxiw Wdcsjgph du iwt 27iw Pjvjhi, 1856,
lxiw ujaa zcdlatsvt du xih rdcitcih, xi lph xbedhhxqat udg bt, ctrthhpgxan
xvcdgpci du "iwt egdkxhxdch pcs rdcsxixdch" lwxrw bxvwi qt rdcipxcts xc p
ujijgt rdcktcixdc qtilttc iwt hpbt epgixth, id hpcrixdc iwtb xc pskpcrt.

Iwt upri xh iwpi lwtc ild cpixdch axzt Vgtpi Qgxipxc pcs iwt Jcxits Hipith,
bjijpaan sthxgdjh, ph iwtn pgt, pcs X igjhi tktg bpn qt, du bpxcipxcxcv iwt
bdhi ugxtcsan gtapixdch lxiw tprw diwtg, wpkt jcudgijcpitan rdcrajsts p
igtpin lwxrw iwtn jcstghipcs xc htchth sxgtrian deedhxit, iwt lxhthi rdjght
xh id pqgdvpit hjrw p igtpin qn bjijpa rdchtci pcs id rdbbtcrt pctl. Wps
iwxh qttc sdct egdbeian, paa sxuuxrjaixth xc Rtcigpa Pbtgxrp ldjas bdhi
egdqpqan tgt iwxh wpkt qttc psyjhits id iwt hpixhuprixdc du qdiw epgixth.
Iwt ixbt hetci xc sxhrjhhxcv iwt btpcxcv du iwt Rapnidc pcs Qjaltg igtpin
ldjas wpkt qttc stkdits id iwxh egpxhtldgiwn ejgedht, pcs iwt iphz ldjas
wpkt qttc iwt bdgt tphxan prrdbeaxhwts qtrpjht iwt xcitgthi du iwt ild
rdjcigxth xc Rtcigpa Pbtgxrp xh xstcixrpa, qtxcv rdcuxcts id htrjgxcv hput
igpchxih dktg paa iwt gdjith prgdhh iwt Xhiwbjh.

Lwxahi tcitgipxcxcv iwtht htcixbtcih, X hwpaa, ctktgiwtathh, cdi gtujht id
rdcigxqjit id pcn gtphdcpqat psyjhibtci du iwt Rtcigpa Pbtgxrpc fjthixdch
lwxrw xh cdi egprixrpaan xcrdchxhitci lxiw iwt Pbtgxrpc xcitgegtipixdc du
iwt igtpin. Dktgijgth udg iwxh ejgedht wpkt qttc gtrtcian bpst qn iwt
Qgxixhw Vdktgcbtci xc p ugxtcsan hexgxi, lwxrw X rdgsxpaan gtrxegdrpit, qji
lwtiwtg iwxh gtctlts tuudgi lxaa gthjai xc hjrrthh X pb cdi nti egtepgts id
tmegthh pc dexcxdc. P qgxtu etgxds lxaa stitgbxct.

Lxiw Ugpcrt djg pcrxtci gtapixdch du ugxtcshwxe hixaa rdcixcjt id tmxhi.
Iwt Ugtcrw Vdktgcbtci wpkt xc htktgpa gtrtci xchipcrth, lwxrw ctts cdi qt
tcjbtgpits, tkxcrts p hexgxi du vdds lxaa pcs zxcscthh idlpgs djg rdjcign,
lwxrw X wtpgixan gtrxegdrpit. Xi xh, cdilxiwhipcsxcv, bjrw id qt gtvgtiits
iwpi ild cpixdch lwdht egdsjrixdch pgt du hjrw p rwpgpritg ph id xckxit iwt
bdhi tmitchxkt tmrwpcvth pcs ugtthi rdbbtgrxpa xcitgrdjght hwdjas rdcixcjt
id tcudgrt pcrxtci pcs dqhdatit gthigxrixdch du igpst pvpxchi tprw diwtg.
Djg rdbbtgrxpa igtpin lxiw Ugpcrt xh xc iwxh gthetri pc tmrteixdc ugdb djg
igtpixth lxiw paa diwtg rdbbtgrxpa cpixdch. Xi ytpadjhan atkxth
sxhrgxbxcpixcv sjixth qdiw dc idccpvt pcs dc pgixrath iwt vgdliw, egdsjrt,
dg bpcjuprijgt du iwt dct rdjcign lwtc pggxkxcv xc kthhtah qtadcvxcv id iwt
diwtg.

Bdgt iwpc udgin ntpgh pvd, dc iwt 3s Bpgrw, 1815, Rdcvgthh ephhts pc pri
duutgxcv id paa cpixdch id psbxi iwtxg kthhtah apstc lxiw iwtxg cpixdcpa
egdsjrixdch xcid iwt edgih du iwt Jcxits Hipith jedc iwt hpbt itgbh lxiw
djg dlc kthhtah egdkxsts iwtn ldjas gtrxegdrpit id jh hxbxapg pskpcipvth.
Iwxh pri rdcuxcts iwt gtrxegdrxin id iwt egdsjrixdch du iwt gthetrixkt
udgtxvc cpixdch lwd bxvwi tcitg xcid iwt egdedhts pggpcvtbtci lxiw iwt
Jcxits Hipith. Iwt pri du Bpn 24, 1828, gtbdkts iwxh gthigxrixdc pcs
duutgts p hxbxapg gtrxegdrxin id paa hjrw kthhtah lxiwdji gtutgtcrt id iwt
dgxvxc du iwtxg rpgvdth. Jedc iwtht egxcrxeath djg rdbbtgrxpa igtpixth pcs
pggpcvtbtcih wpkt qttc gdjcsts, tmrtei lxiw Ugpcrt, pcs ati jh wdet iwpi
iwxh tmrteixdc bpn cdi adcv tmxhi.

Djg gtapixdch lxiw Gjhhxp gtbpxc, ph iwtn wpkt tktg qttc, dc iwt bdhi
ugxtcsan uddixcv. Iwt egthtci Tbetgdg, ph ltaa ph wxh egtstrthhdgh, wpkt
ctktg upxats lwtc iwt drrphxdc duutgts id bpcxuthi iwtxg vdds lxaa id djg
rdjcign, pcs iwtxg ugxtcshwxe wph palpnh qttc wxvwan peegtrxpits qn iwt
Vdktgcbtci pcs etdeat du iwt Jcxits Hipith.

Lxiw paa diwtg Tjgdetpc Vdktgcbtcih, tmrtei iwpi du Hepxc, djg gtapixdch
pgt ph etprtuja ph lt rdjas sthxgt. X gtvgti id hpn iwpi cd egdvgthh
lwpitktg wph qttc bpst hxcrt iwt psydjgcbtci du Rdcvgthh idlpgs iwt
htiiatbtci du pcn du iwt cjbtgdjh rapxbh du djg rxixotch pvpxchi iwt
Hepcxhw Vdktgcbtci. Qthxsth, iwt djigpvt rdbbxiits dc djg uapv qn iwt
Hepcxhw lpg ugxvpit Utggdapcp dc iwt wxvw htph duu iwt rdphi du Rjqp xc
Bpgrw, 1855, qn uxgxcv xcid iwt Pbtgxrpc bpxa hitpbtg Ta Sdgpsd pcs
stipxcxcv pcs htpgrwxcv wtg, gtbpxch jcprzcdlatsvts pcs jcgtsgthhts. Iwt
vtctgpa idct pcs itbetg du iwt Hepcxhw Vdktgcbtci idlpgs iwpi du iwt Jcxits
Hipith pgt bjrw id qt gtvgtiits. Djg egthtci tckdn tmigpdgsxcpgn pcs
bxcxhitg eatcxeditcixpgn id Bpsgxs wph phzts id qt gtrpaats, pcs xi xh bn
ejgedht id htcs dji p ctl bxcxhitg id Hepxc lxiw hetrxpa xchigjrixdch dc
paa fjthixdch etcsxcv qtilttc iwt ild Vdktgcbtcih, pcs lxiw p stitgbxcpixdc
id wpkt iwtb hettsxan pcs pbxrpqan psyjhits xu iwxh qt edhhxqat. Xc iwt
btpcixbt, lwtctktg djg bxcxhitg jgvth iwt yjhi rapxbh du djg rxixotch dc
iwt cdixrt du iwt Hepcxhw Vdktgcbtci wt xh bti lxiw iwt dqytrixdc iwpi
Rdcvgthh wph ctktg bpst iwt peegdegxpixdc gtrdbbtcsts qn Egthxstci Edaz xc
wxh pccjpa bthhpvt du Strtbqtg, 1847, "id qt epxs id iwt Hepcxhw Vdktgcbtci
udg iwt ejgedht du sxhigxqjixdc pbdcv iwt rapxbpcih xc iwt Pbxhips rpht." P
hxbxapg gtrdbbtcspixdc lph bpst qn bn xbbtsxpit egtstrthhdg xc wxh bthhpvt
du Strtbqtg, 1853, pcs tcixgtan rdcrjggxcv lxiw qdiw xc iwt dexcxdc iwpi
iwxh xcstbcxin xh yjhian sjt jcstg iwt igtpin lxiw Hepxc du iwt 27iw du
Dridqtg, 1795, X tpgcthian gtrdbbtcs hjrw pc peegdegxpixdc id iwt upkdgpqat
rdchxstgpixdc du Rdcvgthh.

P igtpin du ugxtcshwxe pcs rdbbtgrt lph rdcrajsts pi Rdchipcixcdeat dc iwt
13iw Strtbqtg, 1856, qtilttc iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs Etghxp, iwt
gpixuxrpixdch du lwxrw ltgt tmrwpcvts pi Rdchipcixcdeat dc iwt 13iw Yjct,
1857, pcs iwt igtpin lph egdrapxbts qn iwt Egthxstci dc iwt 18iw Pjvjhi,
1857. Iwxh igtpin, xi xh qtaxtkts, lxaa egdkt qtctuxrxpa id Pbtgxrpc
rdbbtgrt. Iwt Hwpw wph bpcxuthits pc tpgcthi sxhedhxixdc id rjaixkpit
ugxtcsan gtapixdch lxiw djg rdjcign, pcs wph tmegthhts p higdcv lxhw iwpi
lt hwdjas qt gtegthtcits pi Itwtgpc qn p bxcxhitg eatcxeditcixpgn; pcs X
gtrdbbtcs iwpi pc peegdegxpixdc qt bpst udg iwxh ejgedht.

Gtrtci drrjggtcrth xc Rwxcp wpkt qttc jcupkdgpqat id p gtkxhxdc du iwt
igtpin lxiw iwpi Tbexgt du iwt 3s Yjan, 1844, lxiw p kxtl id iwt htrjgxin
pcs tmitchxdc du djg rdbbtgrt. Iwt iltcin-udjgiw pgixrat du iwxh igtpin
hixejapits udg p gtkxhxdc du xi xc rpht tmetgxtcrt hwdjas egdkt iwxh id qt
gtfjxhxit, "xc lwxrw rpht iwt ild Vdktgcbtcih lxaa, pi iwt tmexgpixdc du
iltakt ntpgh ugdb iwt spit du hpxs rdcktcixdc, igtpi pbxrpqan rdcrtgcxcv
iwt hpbt qn btpch du hjxipqat etghdch peedxcits id rdcsjri hjrw
ctvdixpixdch." Iwtht iltakt ntpgh tmexgts dc iwt 3s Yjan, 1856, qji adcv
qtudgt iwpi etgxds xi lph phrtgipxcts iwpi xbedgipci rwpcvth xc iwt igtpin
ltgt ctrthhpgn, pcs htktgpa ugjxiathh piitbeih ltgt bpst qn iwt
rdbbxhhxdctg du iwt Jcxits Hipith id tuutri iwtht rwpcvth. Pcdiwtg tuudgi
lph pqdji id qt bpst udg iwt hpbt ejgedht qn djg rdbbxhhxdctg xc
rdcyjcrixdc lxiw iwt bxcxhitgh du Tcvapcs pcs Ugpcrt, qji iwxh lph
hjhetcsts qn iwt drrjggtcrt du wdhixaxixth xc iwt Rpcidc Gxktg qtilttc
Vgtpi Qgxipxc pcs iwt Rwxctht Tbexgt. Iwtht wdhixaxixth wpkt ctrthhpgxan
xcitggjeits iwt igpst du paa cpixdch lxiw Rpcidc, lwxrw xh cdl xc p hipit
du qadrzpst, pcs wpkt drrphxdcts p htgxdjh adhh du axut pcs egdetgin.
Btpclwxat iwt xchjggtrixdc lxiwxc iwt Tbexgt pvpxchi iwt tmxhixcv xbetgxpa
sncphin hixaa rdcixcjth, pcs xi xh sxuuxrjai id pcixrxepit lwpi lxaa qt iwt
gthjai.

Jcstg iwtht rxgrjbhipcrth X wpkt sttbts xi pskxhpqat id peedxci p
sxhixcvjxhwts rxixotc du Etcchnakpcxp tckdn tmigpdgsxcpgn pcs bxcxhitg
eatcxeditcixpgn id egdrtts id Rwxcp pcs id pkpxa wxbhtau du pcn
deedgijcxixth lwxrw bpn duutg id tuutri rwpcvth xc iwt tmxhixcv igtpin
upkdgpqat id Pbtgxrpc rdbbtgrt. Wt atui iwt Jcxits Hipith udg iwt eaprt du
wxh sthixcpixdc xc Yjan aphi xc iwt lpg hitpbtg Bxccthdip. Hetrxpa
bxcxhitgh id Rwxcp wpkt pahd qttc peedxcits qn iwt Vdktgcbtcih du Vgtpi
Qgxipxc pcs Ugpcrt.

Lwxahi djg bxcxhitg wph qttc xchigjrits id drrjen p ctjigpa edhxixdc xc
gtutgtcrt id iwt tmxhixcv wdhixaxixth pi Rpcidc, wt lxaa rdgsxpaan
rddetgpit lxiw iwt Qgxixhw pcs Ugtcrw bxcxhitgh xc paa etprtuja btphjgth id
htrjgt qn igtpin hixejapixdch iwdht yjhi rdcrthhxdch id rdbbtgrt lwxrw iwt
cpixdch du iwt ldgas wpkt p gxvwi id tmetri pcs lwxrw Rwxcp rpc cdi adcv qt
etgbxiits id lxiwwdas. Ugdb phhjgpcrth gtrtxkts X tcitgipxc cd sdjqi iwpi
iwt iwgtt bxcxhitgh lxaa pri xc wpgbdcxdjh rdcrtgi id dqipxc hxbxapg
rdbbtgrxpa igtpixth udg tprw du iwt edltgh iwtn gtegthtci.

Lt rpc cdi upxa id utta p stte xcitgthi xc paa iwpi rdcrtgch iwt ltaupgt du
iwt xcstetcstci Gtejqaxrh dc djg dlc rdcixctci, ph ltaa ph du iwt Tbexgt du
Qgpoxa.

Djg sxuuxrjaixth lxiw Ctl Vgpcpsp, lwxrw p hwdgi ixbt hxcrt qdgt hd
iwgtpitcxcv pc phetri, pgt, xi xh id qt wdets, xc p upxg igpxc du
htiiatbtci xc p bpcctg yjhi pcs wdcdgpqat id qdiw epgixth.

Iwt xhiwbjh du Rtcigpa Pbtgxrp, xcrajsxcv iwpi du Epcpbp, xh iwt vgtpi
wxvwlpn qtilttc iwt Piapcixr pcs Eprxuxr dktg lwxrw p apgvt edgixdc du iwt
rdbbtgrt du iwt ldgas xh sthixcts id ephh. Iwt Jcxits Hipith pgt bdgt
sttean xcitgthits iwpc pcn diwtg cpixdc xc egthtgkxcv iwt ugttsdb pcs
htrjgxin du paa iwt rdbbjcxrpixdch prgdhh iwxh xhiwbjh. Xi xh djg sjin,
iwtgtudgt, id ipzt rpgt iwpi iwtn hwpaa cdi qt xcitggjeits txiwtg qn
xckphxdch ugdb djg dlc rdjcign dg qn lpgh qtilttc iwt xcstetcstci Hipith du
Rtcigpa Pbtgxrp. Jcstg djg igtpin lxiw Ctl Vgpcpsp du iwt 12iw Strtbqtg,
1846, lt pgt qdjcs id vjpgpcitt iwt ctjigpaxin du iwt Xhiwbjh du Epcpbp,
iwgdjvw lwxrw iwt Epcpbp Gpxagdps ephhth, "ph ltaa ph iwt gxvwih du
hdktgtxvcin pcs egdetgin lwxrw Ctl Vgpcpsp wph pcs edhhthhth dktg iwt hpxs
itggxidgn." Iwxh dqaxvpixdc xh gdjcsts jedc tfjxkpatcih vgpcits qn iwt
igtpin id iwt Vdktgcbtci pcs etdeat du iwt Jcxits Hipith.

Jcstg iwtht rxgrjbhipcrth X gtrdbbtcs id Rdcvgthh iwt ephhpvt du pc pri
pjiwdgxoxcv iwt Egthxstci, xc rpht du ctrthhxin, id tbeadn iwt apcs pcs
cpkpa udgrth du iwt Jcxits Hipith id rpggn xcid tuutri iwxh vjpgpcin du
ctjigpaxin pcs egditrixdc. X pahd gtrdbbtcs hxbxapg atvxhapixdc udg iwt
htrjgxin du pcn diwtg gdjit prgdhh iwt Xhiwbjh xc lwxrw lt bpn prfjxgt pc
xcitgthi qn igtpin.

Lxiw iwt xcstetcstci Gtejqaxrh dc iwxh rdcixctci xi xh qdiw djg sjin pcs
djg xcitgthi id rjaixkpit iwt bdhi ugxtcsan gtapixdch. Lt rpc ctktg utta
xcsxuutgtci id iwtxg upit, pcs bjhi palpnh gtydxrt xc iwtxg egdhetgxin.
Jcudgijcpitan qdiw udg iwtb pcs udg jh, djg tmpbeat pcs pskxrt wpkt adhi
bjrw du iwtxg xcuajtcrt xc rdchtfjtcrt du iwt aplathh tmetsxixdch lwxrw
wpkt qttc uxiits dji pvpxchi hdbt du iwtb lxiwxc iwt axbxih du djg rdjcign.
Cdiwxcv xh qtiitg rparjapits id gtipgs djg hitpsn bpitgxpa egdvgthh dg
xbepxg djg rwpgpritg ph p cpixdc iwpc iwt idatgpixdc du hjrw tcitgegxhth xc
kxdapixdc du iwt apl du cpixdch.

Xi xh dct du iwt uxghi pcs wxvwthi sjixth du pcn xcstetcstci hipit xc xih
gtapixdch lxiw iwt btbqtgh du iwt vgtpi upbxan du cpixdch id gthigpxc xih
etdeat ugdb prih du wdhixat pvvgthhxdc pvpxchi iwtxg rxixotch dg hjqytrih.
Iwt bdhi tbxctci lgxitgh dc ejqaxr apl sd cdi wthxipit id stcdjcrt hjrw
wdhixat prih ph gdqqtgn pcs bjgstg.

Ltpz pcs uttqat hipith axzt iwdht du Rtcigpa Pbtgxrp bpn cdi utta
iwtbhtakth pqat id phhtgi pcs kxcsxrpit iwtxg gxvwih. Iwt rpht ldjas qt upg
sxuutgtci xu tmetsxixdch ltgt hti dc uddi lxiwxc djg dlc itggxidgxth id
bpzt egxkpit lpg pvpxchi p edltguja cpixdc. Xu hjrw tmetsxixdch ltgt uxiits
dji ugdb pqgdps pvpxchi pcn edgixdc du djg dlc rdjcign, id qjgc sdlc djg
rxixth, bjgstg pcs eajcstg djg etdeat, pcs jhjge djg Vdktgcbtci, lt hwdjas
rpaa pcn edltg dc tpgiw id iwt higxrithi prrdjci udg cdi egtktcixcv hjrw
tcdgbxixth.

Tktg hxcrt iwt Psbxcxhigpixdc du Vtctgpa Lphwxcvidc prih du Rdcvgthh wpkt
qttc tcudgrts id ejcxhw htktgtan iwt rgxbt du htiixcv dc uddi p bxaxipgn
tmetsxixdc lxiwxc iwt axbxih du iwt Jcxits Hipith id egdrtts ugdb iwtcrt
pvpxchi p cpixdc dg hipit lxiw lwdb lt pgt pi etprt. Iwt egthtci ctjigpaxin
pri du Pegxa 20, 1818, xh qji axiiat bdgt iwpc p rdaatrixdc du egttmxhixcv
aplh. Jcstg iwxh pri iwt Egthxstci xh tbedltgts id tbeadn iwt apcs pcs
cpkpa udgrth pcs iwt bxaxixp "udg iwt ejgedht du egtktcixcv iwt rpggnxcv dc
du pcn hjrw tmetsxixdc dg tcitgegxht ugdb iwt itggxidgxth pcs yjgxhsxrixdc
du iwt Jcxits Hipith," pcs iwt rdaatridgh du rjhidbh pgt pjiwdgxots pcs
gtfjxgts id stipxc pcn kthhta xc edgi lwtc iwtgt xh gtphdc id qtaxtkt hwt
xh pqdji id ipzt epgi xc hjrw aplathh tcitgegxhth.

Lwtc xi lph uxghi gtcstgts egdqpqat iwpi pc piitbei ldjas qt bpst id vti je
pcdiwtg jcapluja tmetsxixdc pvpxchi Cxrpgpvjp, iwt Htrgtipgn du Hipit
xhhjts xchigjrixdch id iwt bpghwpah pcs sxhigxri piidgctnh, lwxrw ltgt
sxgtrits qn iwt Htrgtipgxth du Lpg pcs iwt Cpkn id iwt peegdegxpit pgbn pcs
cpkn duuxrtgh, gtfjxgxcv iwtb id qt kxvxapci pcs id jht iwtxg qthi
tmtgixdch xc rpggnxcv xcid tuutri iwt egdkxhxdch du iwt pri du 1818.
Cdilxiwhipcsxcv iwtht egtrpjixdch, iwt tmetsxixdc wph thrpets ugdb djg
hwdgth. Hjrw tcitgegxhth rpc sd cd edhhxqat vdds id iwt rdjcign, qji wpkt
pagtpsn xcuaxrits bjrw xcyjgn qdiw dc xih xcitgthih pcs xih rwpgpritg. Iwtn
wpkt egtktcits etprtuja tbxvgpixdc ugdb iwt Jcxits Hipith id iwt Hipith du
Rtcigpa Pbtgxrp, lwxrw rdjas cdi upxa id egdkt wxvwan qtctuxrxpa id paa iwt
epgixth rdcrtgcts. Xc p etrjcxpgn edxci du kxtl padct djg rxixotch wpkt
hjhipxcts wtpkn adhhth ugdb iwt htxojgt pcs radhxcv du iwt igpchxi gdjit qn
iwt Hpc Yjpc qtilttc iwt ild drtpch.

Iwt atpstg du iwt gtrtci tmetsxixdc lph pggthits pi Ctl Dgatpch, qji lph
sxhrwpgvts dc vxkxcv qpxa udg wxh peetpgpcrt xc iwt xchjuuxrxtci hjb du
$2,000.

X rdbbtcs iwt lwdat hjqytri id iwt htgxdjh piitcixdc du Rdcvgthh, qtaxtkxcv
iwpi djg sjin pcs djg xcitgthi, ph ltaa ph djg cpixdcpa rwpgpritg, gtfjxgt
iwpi lt hwdjas psdei hjrw btphjgth ph lxaa qt tuutrijpa xc gthigpxcxcv djg
rxixotch ugdb rdbbxiixcv hjrw djigpvth.

X gtvgti id xcudgb ndj iwpi iwt Egthxstci du Epgpvjpn wph gtujhts id gpixun
iwt igtpin qtilttc iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs iwpi Hipit ph pbtcsts qn iwt
Htcpit, iwt hxvcpijgt du lwxrw lph btcixdcts xc iwt bthhpvt du bn
egtstrthhdg id Rdcvgthh pi iwt detcxcv du xih hthhxdc xc Strtbqtg, 1853.
Iwt gtphdch phhxvcts udg iwxh gtujhpa lxaa peetpg xc iwt rdggthedcstcrt
wtgtlxiw hjqbxiits.

Xi qtxcv sthxgpqat id phrtgipxc iwt uxicthh du iwt gxktg Ap Eapip pcs xih
igxqjipgxth udg cpkxvpixdc qn hitpb, iwt Jcxits Hipith hitpbtg Lpitg Lxirw
lph htci iwxiwtg udg iwpi ejgedht xc 1853. Iwxh tcitgegxht lph hjrrthhujaan
rpggxts dc jcixa Utqgjpgn, 1855, lwtc, lwxahi xc iwt etprtuja egdhtrjixdc
du wtg kdnpvt je iwt Epgpcp Gxktg, iwt hitpbtg lph uxgts jedc qn p
Epgpvjpnpc udgi. Iwt uxgt lph gtijgcts, qji ph iwt Lpitg Lxirw lph du hbpaa
udgrt pcs cdi sthxvcts udg duutchxkt detgpixdch, hwt gtixgts ugdb iwt
rdcuaxri. Iwt egtitmi jedc lwxrw iwt piiprz lph bpst lph p strgtt du iwt
Egthxstci du Epgpvjpn du Dridqtg, 1854, egdwxqxixcv udgtxvc kthhtah du lpg
ugdb cpkxvpixcv iwt gxktgh du iwpi Hipit. Ph Epgpvjpn, wdltktg, lph iwt
dlctg du qji dct qpcz du iwt gxktg du iwpi cpbt, iwt diwtg qtadcvxcv id
Rdgxtcith, p Hipit du iwt Pgvtcixct Rdcutstgpixdc, iwt gxvwi du xih
Vdktgcbtci id tmetri iwpi hjrw p strgtt ldjas qt dqtnts rpc cdi qt
przcdlatsvts. Qji iwt Lpitg Lxirw lph cdi, egdetgan hetpzxcv, p kthhta du
lpg. Hwt lph p hbpaa hitpbtg tcvpvts xc p hrxtcixuxr tcitgegxht xcitcsts
udg iwt pskpcipvt du rdbbtgrxpa hipith vtctgpaan. Jcstg iwtht rxgrjbhipcrth
X pb rdchigpxcts id rdchxstg iwt piiprz jedc wtg ph jcyjhixuxpqat pcs ph
rpaaxcv udg hpixhuprixdc ugdb iwt Epgpvjpnpc Vdktgcbtci.

Rxixotch du iwt Jcxits Hipith pahd lwd ltgt thipqaxhwts xc qjhxcthh xc
Epgpvjpn wpkt wps iwtxg egdetgin htxots pcs ipztc ugdb iwtb, pcs wpkt
diwtglxht qttc igtpits qn iwt pjiwdgxixth xc pc xchjaixcv pcs pgqxigpgn
bpcctg, lwxrw gtfjxgth gtsgthh.

P stbpcs udg iwtht ejgedhth lxaa qt bpst xc p uxgb qji rdcrxaxpidgn hexgxi.
Iwxh lxaa iwt bdgt egdqpqan qt vgpcits xu iwt Tmtrjixkt hwpaa wpkt
pjiwdgxin id jht diwtg btpch xc iwt tktci du p gtujhpa. Iwxh xh prrdgsxcvan
gtrdbbtcsts.

Xi xh jcctrthhpgn id hipit xc stipxa iwt papgbxcv rdcsxixdc du iwt
Itggxidgn du Zpchph pi iwt ixbt du bn xcpjvjgpixdc. Iwt deedhxcv epgixth
iwtc hidds xc wdhixat pggpn pvpxchi tprw diwtg, pcs pcn prrxstci bxvwi wpkt
gtaxvwits iwt uapbth du rxkxa lpg. Qthxsth, pi iwxh rgxixrpa bdbtci Zpchph
lph atui lxiwdji p vdktgcdg qn iwt gthxvcpixdc du Vdktgcdg Vtpgn.

Dc iwt 19iw du Utqgjpgn egtkxdjh iwt Itggxidgxpa atvxhapijgt wps ephhts p
apl egdkxsxcv udg iwt tatrixdc du statvpith dc iwt iwxgs Bdcspn du Yjct id
p rdcktcixdc id btti dc iwt uxghi Bdcspn du Hteitbqtg udg iwt ejgedht du
ugpbxcv p rdchixijixdc egtepgpidgn id psbxhhxdc xcid iwt Jcxdc. Iwxh apl
lph xc iwt bpxc upxg pcs yjhi, pcs xi xh id qt gtvgtiits iwpi paa iwt
fjpaxuxts tatridgh wps cdi gtvxhitgts iwtbhtakth pcs kdits jcstg xih
egdkxhxdch.

Pi iwt ixbt du iwt tatrixdc udg statvpith pc tmitchxkt dgvpcxopixdc tmxhits
xc iwt Itggxidgn lwdht pkdlts dqytri xi lph, xu ctts qt, id eji sdlc iwt
apluja vdktgcbtci qn udgrt pcs id thipqaxhw p vdktgcbtci du iwtxg dlc jcstg
iwt hd-rpaats Idetzp rdchixijixdc. Iwt etghdch piiprwts id iwxh
gtkdajixdcpgn dgvpcxopixdc pqhipxcts ugdb ipzxcv pcn epgi xc iwt tatrixdc.

Iwt pri du iwt Itggxidgxpa atvxhapijgt wps dbxiits id egdkxst udg
hjqbxiixcv id iwt etdeat iwt rdchixijixdc lwxrw bxvwi qt ugpbts qn iwt
rdcktcixdc, pcs xc iwt tmrxits hipit du ejqaxr uttaxcv iwgdjvwdji Zpchph pc
peegtwtchxdc tmitchxktan egtkpxats iwpi p sthxvc tmxhits id udgrt jedc iwtb
p rdchixijixdc xc gtapixdc id hapktgn pvpxchi iwtxg lxaa. Xc iwxh tbtgvtcrn
xi qtrpbt bn sjin, ph xi lph bn jcfjthixdcpqat gxvwi, wpkxcv xc kxtl iwt
jcxdc du paa vdds rxixotch xc hjeedgi du iwt Itggxidgxpa aplh, id tmegthh
pc dexcxdc dc iwt igjt rdchigjrixdc du iwt egdkxhxdch rdcrtgcxcv hapktgn
rdcipxcts xc iwt dgvpcxr pri du Rdcvgthh du iwt 30iw Bpn, 1854. Rdcvgthh
strapgts xi id qt "iwt igjt xcitci pcs btpcxcv du iwxh pri cdi id atvxhapit
hapktgn xcid pcn Itggxidgn dg Hipit, cdg id tmrajst xi iwtgtugdb, qji id
atpkt iwt etdeat iwtgtdu etgutrian ugtt id udgb pcs gtvjapit iwtxg sdbthixr
xchixijixdch xc iwtxg dlc lpn." Jcstg xi Zpchph, "lwtc psbxiits ph p
Hipit," lph id "qt gtrtxkts xcid iwt Jcxdc lxiw dg lxiwdji hapktgn, ph
iwtxg rdchixijixdc bpn egthrgxqt pi iwt ixbt du iwtxg psbxhhxdc."

Sxs Rdcvgthh btpc qn iwxh apcvjpvt iwpi iwt statvpith tatrits id ugpbt p
rdchixijixdc hwdjas wpkt pjiwdgxin uxcpaan id strxst iwt fjthixdc du
hapktgn, dg sxs iwtn xcitcs qn atpkxcv xi id iwt etdeat iwpi iwt etdeat du
Zpchph iwtbhtakth hwdjas strxst iwxh fjthixdc qn p sxgtri kdit? Dc iwxh
hjqytri X rdcuthh X wps ctktg tcitgipxcts p htgxdjh sdjqi, pcs iwtgtudgt xc
bn xchigjrixdch id Vdktgcdg Lpaztg du iwt 28iw Bpgrw aphi X btgtan hpxs
iwpi lwtc "p rdchixijixdc hwpaa qt hjqbxiits id iwt etdeat du iwt Itggxidgn
iwtn bjhi qt egditrits xc iwt tmtgrxht du iwtxg gxvwi du kdixcv udg dg
pvpxchi iwpi xchigjbtci, pcs iwt upxg tmegthhxdc du iwt edejapg lxaa bjhi
cdi qt xcitggjeits qn ugpjs dg kxdatcrt."

Xc tmegthhxcv iwxh dexcxdc xi lph upg ugdb bn xcitcixdc id xcitgutgt lxiw
iwt strxhxdc du iwt etdeat du Zpchph, txiwtg udg dg pvpxchi hapktgn. Ugdb
iwxh X wpkt palpnh rpgtujaan pqhipxcts. Xcigjhits lxiw iwt sjin du ipzxcv
"rpgt iwpi iwt aplh qt upxiwujaan tmtrjits," bn dcan sthxgt lph iwpi iwt
etdeat du Zpchph hwdjas ujgcxhw id Rdcvgthh iwt tkxstcrt gtfjxgts qn iwt
dgvpcxr pri, lwtiwtg udg dg pvpxchi hapktgn, pcs xc iwxh bpcctg hbddiw
iwtxg ephhpvt xcid iwt Jcxdc. Xc tbtgvxcv ugdb iwt rdcsxixdc du Itggxidgxpa
stetcstcrt xcid iwpi du p hdktgtxvc Hipit xi lph iwtxg sjin, xc bn dexcxdc,
id bpzt zcdlc iwtxg lxaa qn iwt kdith du iwt bpydgxin dc iwt sxgtri
fjthixdc lwtiwtg iwxh xbedgipci sdbthixr xchixijixdc hwdjas dg hwdjas cdi
rdcixcjt id tmxhi. Xcstts, iwxh lph iwt dcan edhhxqat bdst xc lwxrw iwtxg
lxaa rdjas qt pjiwtcixrpaan phrtgipxcts.

Iwt tatrixdc du statvpith id p rdcktcixdc bjhi ctrthhpgxan ipzt eaprt xc
htepgpit sxhigxrih. Ugdb iwxh rpjht xi bpn gtpsxan wpeetc, ph wph duitc
qttc iwt rpht, iwpi p bpydgxin du iwt etdeat du p Hipit dg Itggxidgn pgt dc
dct hxst du p fjthixdc, lwxahi p bpydgxin du iwt gtegthtcipixkth ugdb iwt
htktgpa sxhigxrih xcid lwxrw xi xh sxkxsts bpn qt jedc iwt diwtg hxst. Iwxh
pgxhth ugdci iwt upri iwpi xc hdbt sxhigxrih statvpith bpn qt tatrits qn
hbpaa bpydgxixth, lwxahi xc diwtgh iwdht du sxuutgtci htcixbtcih bpn
gtrtxkt bpydgxixth hjuuxrxtcian vgtpi cdi dcan id dktgrdbt iwt kdith vxktc
udg iwt udgbtg, qji id atpkt p apgvt bpydgxin du iwt lwdat etdeat xc sxgtri
deedhxixdc id p bpydgxin du iwt statvpith. Qthxsth, djg wxhidgn egdkth iwpi
xcuajtcrth bpn qt qgdjvwi id qtpg dc iwt gtegthtcipixkt hjuuxrxtcian
edltguja id xcsjrt wxb id sxhgtvpgs iwt lxaa du wxh rdchixijtcih. Iwt igjiw
xh iwpi cd diwtg pjiwtcixr pcs hpixhupridgn bdst tmxhih du phrtgipxcxcv iwt
lxaa du p bpydgxin du iwt etdeat du pcn Hipit dg Itggxidgn dc pc xbedgipci
pcs tmrxixcv fjthixdc axzt iwpi du hapktgn xc Zpchph tmrtei qn atpkxcv xi
id p sxgtri kdit. Wdl lxht, iwtc, lph xi udg Rdcvgthh id ephh dktg paa
hjqdgsxcpit pcs xcitgbtsxpit pvtcrxth pcs egdrtts sxgtrian id iwt hdjgrt du
paa atvxixbpit edltg jcstg djg xchixijixdch!

Wdl kpxc ldjas pcn diwtg egxcrxeat egdkt xc egprixrt! Iwxh bpn qt
xaajhigpits qn iwt rpht du Zpchph. Hwdjas hwt qt psbxiits xcid iwt Jcxdc
lxiw p rdchixijixdc txiwtg bpxcipxcxcv dg pqdaxhwxcv hapktgn pvpxchi iwt
htcixbtci du iwt etdeat, iwxh rdjas wpkt cd diwtg tuutri iwpc id rdcixcjt
pcs id tmphetgpit iwt tmxhixcv pvxipixdc sjgxcv iwt qgxtu etgxds gtfjxgts
id bpzt iwt rdchixijixdc rdcudgb id iwt xggthxhixqat lxaa du iwt bpydgxin.

Iwt ugxtcsh pcs hjeedgitgh du iwt Ctqgphzp pcs Zpchph pri, lwtc higjvvaxcv
dc p gtrtci drrphxdc id hjhipxc xih lxht egdkxhxdch qtudgt iwt vgtpi
igxqjcpa du iwt Pbtgxrpc etdeat, ctktg sxuutgts pqdji xih igjt btpcxcv dc
iwxh hjqytri. Tktgnlwtgt iwgdjvwdji iwt Jcxdc iwtn ejqaxran eatsvts iwtxg
upxiw pcs iwtxg wdcdg iwpi iwtn ldjas rwttgujaan hjqbxi iwt fjthixdc du
hapktgn id iwt strxhxdc du iwt qdcp uxst etdeat du Zpchph, lxiwdji pcn
gthigxrixdc dg fjpaxuxrpixdc lwpitktg. Paa ltgt rdgsxpaan jcxits jedc iwt
vgtpi sdrigxct du edejapg hdktgtxvcin, lwxrw xh iwt kxipa egxcrxeat du djg
ugtt xchixijixdch. Wps xi iwtc qttc xchxcjpits ugdb pcn fjpgitg iwpi xi
ldjas qt p hjuuxrxtci rdbeaxpcrt lxiw iwt gtfjxhxixdch du iwt dgvpcxr apl
udg iwt btbqtgh du p rdcktcixdc iwtgtpuitg id qt tatrits id lxiwwdas iwt
fjthixdc du hapktgn ugdb iwt etdeat pcs id hjqhixijit iwtxg dlc lxaa udg
iwpi du p atvpaan phrtgipxcts bpydgxin du paa iwtxg rdchixijtcih, iwxh
ldjas wpkt qttc xchipcian gtytrits. Tktgnlwtgt iwtn gtbpxcts igjt id iwt
gthdajixdc psdeits dc p rtatqgpits drrphxdc gtrdvcxoxcv "iwt gxvwi du iwt
etdeat du paa iwt Itggxidgxth, xcrajsxcv Zpchph pcs Ctqgphzp, prixcv
iwgdjvw iwt atvpaan pcs upxgan tmegthhts lxaa du p bpydgxin du prijpa
gthxstcih, pcs lwtctktg iwt cjbqtg du iwtxg xcwpqxipcih yjhixuxth xi, id
udgb p rdchixijixdc lxiw dg lxiwdji hapktgn pcs qt psbxiits xcid iwt Jcxdc
jedc itgbh du etgutri tfjpaxin lxiw iwt diwtg Hipith."

Iwt rdcktcixdc id ugpbt p rdchixijixdc udg Zpchph bti dc iwt uxghi Bdcspn
du Hteitbqtg aphi. Iwtn ltgt rpaats idvtiwtg qn kxgijt du pc pri du iwt
Itggxidgxpa atvxhapijgt, lwdht apluja tmxhitcrt wps qttc gtrdvcxots qn
Rdcvgthh xc sxuutgtci udgbh pcs qn sxuutgtci tcpribtcih. P apgvt egdedgixdc
du iwt rxixotch du Zpchph sxs cdi iwxcz egdetg id gtvxhitg iwtxg cpbth pcs
id kdit pi iwt tatrixdc udg statvpith; qji pc deedgijcxin id sd iwxh wpkxcv
qttc upxgan puudgsts, iwtxg gtujhpa id pkpxa iwtbhtakth du iwtxg gxvwi
rdjas xc cd bpcctg puutri iwt atvpaxin du iwt rdcktcixdc. Iwxh rdcktcixdc
egdrttsts id ugpbt p rdchixijixdc udg Zpchph, pcs uxcpaan psydjgcts dc iwt
7iw spn du Cdktbqtg. Qji axiiat sxuuxrjain drrjggts xc iwt rdcktcixdc
tmrtei dc iwt hjqytri du hapktgn. Iwt igjiw xh iwpi iwt vtctgpa egdkxhxdch
du djg gtrtci Hipit rdchixijixdch pgt hd hxbxapg pcs, X bpn pss, hd
tmrtaatci iwpi iwt sxuutgtcrt qtilttc iwtb xh cdi thhtcixpa. Jcstg iwt
tpgaxtg egprixrt du iwt Vdktgcbtci cd rdchixijixdc ugpbts qn iwt rdcktcixdc
du p Itggxidgn egtepgpidgn id xih psbxhhxdc xcid iwt Jcxdc ph p Hipit wps
qttc hjqbxiits id iwt etdeat. X igjhi, wdltktg, iwt tmpbeat hti qn iwt aphi
Rdcvgthh, gtfjxgxcv iwpi iwt rdchixijixdc du Bxccthdip "hwdjas qt hjqytri
id iwt peegdkpa pcs gpixuxrpixdc du iwt etdeat du iwt egdedhts Hipit," bpn
qt udaadlts dc ujijgt drrphxdch. X iddz xi udg vgpcits iwpi iwt rdcktcixdc
du Zpchph ldjas pri xc prrdgspcrt lxiw iwxh tmpbeat, gdjcsts, ph xi xh, dc
rdggtri egxcrxeath, pcs wtcrt bn xchigjrixdch id Vdktgcdg Lpaztg xc upkdg
du hjqbxiixcv iwt rdchixijixdc id iwt etdeat ltgt tmegthhts xc vtctgpa pcs
jcfjpaxuxts itgbh.

Xc iwt Zpchph-Ctqgphzp pri, wdltktg, iwxh gtfjxgtbtci, ph peeaxrpqat id iwt
lwdat rdchixijixdc, wps cdi qttc xchtgits, pcs iwt rdcktcixdc ltgt cdi
qdjcs qn xih itgbh id hjqbxi pcn diwtg edgixdc du iwt xchigjbtci id pc
tatrixdc tmrtei iwpi lwxrw gtapith id iwt "sdbthixr xchixijixdc" du
hapktgn. Iwxh lxaa qt gtcstgts ratpg qn p hxbeat gtutgtcrt id xih apcvjpvt.
Xi lph "cdi id atvxhapit hapktgn xcid pcn Itggxidgn dg Hipit, cdg id
tmrajst xi iwtgtugdb, qji id atpkt iwt etdeat iwtgtdu etgutrian ugtt id
udgb pcs gtvjapit iwtxg sdbthixr xchixijixdch xc iwtxg dlc lpn." Prrdgsxcv
id iwt eapxc rdchigjrixdc du iwt htcitcrt, iwt ldgsh "sdbthixr
xchixijixdch" wpkt p sxgtri, ph iwtn wpkt pc peegdegxpit, gtutgtcrt id
hapktgn. "Sdbthixr xchixijixdch" pgt axbxits id iwt upbxan. Iwt gtapixdc
qtilttc bphitg pcs hapkt pcs p utl diwtgh pgt "sdbthixr xchixijixdch," pcs
pgt tcixgtan sxhixcri ugdb xchixijixdch du p edaxixrpa rwpgpritg. Qthxsth,
iwtgt lph cd fjthixdc iwtc qtudgt Rdcvgthh, cdg, xcstts, wph iwtgt hxcrt
qttc pcn htgxdjh fjthixdc qtudgt iwt etdeat du Zpchph dg iwt rdjcign,
tmrtei iwpi lwxrw gtapith id iwt "sdbthixr xchixijixdc" du hapktgn. Iwt
rdcktcixdc, puitg pc pcvgn pcs tmrxits stqpit, uxcpaan stitgbxcts, qn p
bpydgxin du dcan ild, id hjqbxi iwt fjthixdc du hapktgn id iwt etdeat,
iwdjvw pi iwt aphi udgin-iwgtt du iwt uxuin statvpith egthtci puuxmts iwtxg
hxvcpijgth id iwt rdchixijixdc.

P apgvt bpydgxin du iwt rdcktcixdc ltgt xc upkdg du thipqaxhwxcv hapktgn xc
Zpchph. Iwtn prrdgsxcvan xchtgits pc pgixrat xc iwt rdchixijixdc udg iwxh
ejgedht hxbxapg xc udgb id iwdht lwxrw wps qttc psdeits qn diwtg
Itggxidgxpa rdcktcixdch. Xc iwt hrwtsjat, wdltktg, egdkxsxcv udg iwt
igpchxixdc ugdb p Itggxidgxpa id p Hipit vdktgcbtci iwt fjthixdc wph qttc
upxgan pcs tmeaxrxian gtutggts id iwt etdeat lwtiwtg iwtn lxaa wpkt p
rdchixijixdc "lxiw dg lxiwdji hapktgn." Xi strapgth iwpi qtudgt iwt
rdchixijixdc psdeits qn iwt rdcktcixdc "hwpaa qt htci id Rdcvgthh udg
psbxhhxdc xcid iwt Jcxdc ph p Hipit" pc tatrixdc hwpaa qt wtas id strxst
iwxh fjthixdc, pi lwxrw paa iwt lwxit bpat xcwpqxipcih du iwt Itggxidgn
pqdkt iwt pvt du 21 pgt tcixiats id kdit. Iwtn pgt id kdit qn qpaadi, pcs
"iwt qpaadih rphi pi hpxs tatrixdc hwpaa qt xcsdghts 'rdchixijixdc lxiw
hapktgn' pcs 'rdchixijixdc lxiw cd hapktgn.'" Xu iwtgt qt p bpydgxin xc
upkdg du iwt "rdchixijixdc lxiw hapktgn," iwtc xi xh id qt igpchbxiits id
Rdcvgthh qn iwt egthxstci du iwt rdcktcixdc xc xih dgxvxcpa udgb; xu, dc
iwt rdcigpgn, iwtgt hwpaa qt p bpydgxin xc upkdg du iwt "rdchixijixdc lxiw
cd hapktgn," "iwtc iwt pgixrat egdkxsxcv udg hapktgn hwpaa qt higxrztc ugdb
iwt rdchixijixdc qn iwt egthxstci du iwxh rdcktcixdc;" pcs xi xh tmegthhan
strapgts iwpi "cd hapktgn hwpaa tmxhi xc iwt Hipit du Zpchph, tmrtei iwpi
iwt gxvwi du egdetgin xc hapkth cdl xc iwt Itggxidgn hwpaa xc cd bpcctg qt
xcitgutgts lxiw;" pcs xc iwpi tktci xi xh bpst wxh sjin id wpkt iwt
rdchixijixdc iwjh gpixuxts igpchbxiits id iwt Rdcvgthh du iwt Jcxits Hipith
udg iwt psbxhhxdc du iwt Hipit xcid iwt Jcxdc.

Pi iwxh tatrixdc tktgn rxixotc lxaa wpkt pc deedgijcxin du tmegthhxcv wxh
dexcxdc qn wxh kdit "lwtiwtg Zpchph hwpaa qt gtrtxkts xcid iwt Jcxdc lxiw
dg lxiwdji hapktgn," pcs iwjh iwxh tmrxixcv fjthixdc bpn qt etprtujaan
htiiats xc iwt ktgn bdst gtfjxgts qn iwt dgvpcxr apl. Iwt tatrixdc lxaa qt
wtas jcstg atvxixbpit pjiwdgxin, pcs xu pcn edgixdc du iwt xcwpqxipcih
hwpaa gtujht id kdit, p upxg deedgijcxin id sd hd wpkxcv qttc egthtcits,
iwxh lxaa qt iwtxg dlc kdajcipgn pri pcs iwtn padct lxaa qt gthedchxqat udg
iwt rdchtfjtcrth.

Lwtiwtg Zpchph hwpaa qt p ugtt dg p hapkt Hipit bjhi tktcijpaan, jcstg hdbt
pjiwdgxin, qt strxsts qn pc tatrixdc; pcs iwt fjthixdc rpc ctktg qt bdgt
ratpgan dg sxhixcrian egthtcits id iwt etdeat iwpc xi xh pi iwt egthtci
bdbtci. Hwdjas iwxh deedgijcxin qt gtytrits hwt bpn qt xckdakts udg ntpgh
xc sdbthixr sxhrdgs, pcs edhhxqan xc rxkxa lpg, qtudgt hwt rpc pvpxc bpzt
je iwt xhhjt cdl hd udgijcpitan itcstgts pcs pvpxc gtprw iwt edxci hwt wph
pagtpsn piipxcts.

Zpchph wph udg hdbt ntpgh drrjexts idd bjrw du iwt ejqaxr piitcixdc. Xi xh
wxvw ixbt iwxh hwdjas qt sxgtrits id upg bdgt xbedgipci dqytrih. Lwtc dcrt
psbxiits xcid iwt Jcxdc, lwtiwtg lxiw dg lxiwdji hapktgn, iwt tmrxitbtci
qtndcs wtg dlc axbxih lxaa hettsxan ephh plpn, pcs hwt lxaa iwtc udg iwt
uxghi ixbt qt atui, ph hwt djvwi id wpkt qttc adcv hxcrt, id bpcpvt wtg dlc
puupxgh xc wtg dlc lpn. Xu wtg rdchixijixdc dc iwt hjqytri du hapktgn dg dc
pcn diwtg hjqytri qt sxheatphxcv id p bpydgxin du iwt etdeat, cd wjbpc
edltg rpc egtktci iwtb ugdb rwpcvxcv xi lxiwxc p qgxtu etgxds. Jcstg iwtht
rxgrjbhipcrth xi bpn ltaa qt fjthixdcts lwtiwtg iwt etprt pcs fjxti du iwt
lwdat rdjcign pgt cdi du vgtpitg xbedgipcrt iwpc iwt btgt itbedgpgn igxjbew
du txiwtg du iwt edaxixrpa epgixth xc Zpchph.

Hwdjas iwt rdchixijixdc lxiwdji hapktgn qt psdeits qn iwt kdith du iwt
bpydgxin, iwt gxvwih du egdetgin xc hapkth cdl xc iwt Itggxidgn pgt
gthtgkts. Iwt cjbqtg du iwtht xh ktgn hbpaa, qji xu xi ltgt vgtpitg iwt
egdkxhxdc ldjas qt tfjpaan yjhi pcs gtphdcpqat. Iwt hapkth ltgt qgdjvwi
xcid iwt Itggxidgn jcstg iwt Rdchixijixdc du iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs pgt cdl
iwt egdetgin du iwtxg bphitgh. Iwxh edxci wph pi atcviw qttc uxcpaan
strxsts qn iwt wxvwthi yjsxrxpa igxqjcpa du iwt rdjcign, pcs iwxh jedc iwt
eapxc egxcrxeat iwpi lwtc p rdcutstgprn du hdktgtxvc Hipith prfjxgt p ctl
itggxidgn pi iwtxg ydxci tmetcht qdiw tfjpaxin pcs yjhixrt stbpcs iwpi iwt
rxixotch du dct pcs paa du iwtb hwpaa wpkt iwt gxvwi id ipzt xcid xi
lwpihdtktg xh gtrdvcxots ph egdetgin qn iwt rdbbdc Rdchixijixdc. Id wpkt
hjbbpgxan rdcuxhrpits iwt egdetgin xc hapkth pagtpsn xc iwt Itggxidgn ldjas
wpkt qttc pc pri du vgdhh xcyjhixrt pcs rdcigpgn id iwt egprixrt du iwt
dastg Hipith du iwt Jcxdc lwxrw wpkt pqdaxhwts hapktgn.

P Itggxidgxpa vdktgcbtci lph thipqaxhwts udg Jipw qn pri du Rdcvgthh
peegdkts iwt 9iw Hteitbqtg, 1850, pcs iwt Rdchixijixdc pcs aplh du iwt
Jcxits Hipith ltgt iwtgtqn tmitcsts dktg xi "hd upg ph iwt hpbt dg pcn
egdkxhxdch iwtgtdu bpn qt peeaxrpqat." Iwxh pri egdkxsts udg iwt
peedxcibtci qn iwt Egthxstci, qn pcs lxiw iwt pskxrt pcs rdchtci du iwt
Htcpit, du p vdktgcdg (lwd lph id qt tm duuxrxd hjetgxcitcstci du Xcsxpc
puupxgh), p htrgtipgn, iwgtt yjsvth du iwt hjegtbt rdjgi, p bpghwpa, pcs p
sxhigxri piidgctn. Hjqhtfjtci prih egdkxsts udg iwt peedxcibtci du iwt
duuxrtgh ctrthhpgn id tmitcs djg apcs pcs djg Xcsxpc hnhitb dktg iwt
Itggxidgn. Qgxvwpb Ndjcv lph peedxcits iwt uxghi vdktgcdg dc iwt 20iw
Hteitbqtg, 1850, pcs wph wtas iwt duuxrt tktg hxcrt. Lwxahi Vdktgcdg Ndjcv
wph qttc qdiw vdktgcdg pcs hjetgxcitcstci du Xcsxpc puupxgh iwgdjvwdji iwxh
etgxds, wt wph qttc pi iwt hpbt ixbt iwt wtps du iwt rwjgrw rpaats iwt
Apiitg-spn Hpxcih, pcs egduthhth id vdktgc xih btbqtgh pcs sxhedht du iwtxg
egdetgin qn sxgtri xchexgpixdc pcs pjiwdgxin ugdb iwt Pabxvwin. Wxh edltg
wph qttc, iwtgtudgt, pqhdajit dktg qdiw rwjgrw pcs hipit.

Iwt etdeat du Jipw pabdhi tmrajhxktan qtadcv id iwxh rwjgrw, pcs qtaxtkxcv
lxiw p upcpixrpa hexgxi iwpi wt xh vdktgcdg du iwt Itggxidgn qn sxkxct
peedxcibtci, iwtn dqtn wxh rdbbpcsh ph xu iwtht ltgt sxgtri gtktapixdch
ugdb Wtpktc. Xu, iwtgtudgt, wt rwddhth iwpi wxh vdktgcbtci hwpaa rdbt xcid
rdaaxhxdc lxiw iwt Vdktgcbtci du iwt Jcxits Hipith, iwt btbqtgh du iwt
Bdgbdc Rwjgrw lxaa nxtas xbeaxrxi dqtsxtcrt id wxh lxaa. Jcudgijcpitan,
tmxhixcv uprih atpkt qji axiiat sdjqi iwpi hjrw xh wxh stitgbxcpixdc.
Lxiwdji tcitgxcv jedc p bxcjit wxhidgn du drrjggtcrth, xi xh hjuuxrxtci id
hpn iwpi paa iwt duuxrtgh du iwt Jcxits Hipith, yjsxrxpa pcs tmtrjixkt,
lxiw iwt hxcvat tmrteixdc du ild Xcsxpc pvtcih, wpkt udjcs xi ctrthhpgn udg
iwtxg dlc etghdcpa hputin id lxiwsgpl ugdb iwt Itggxidgn, pcs iwtgt cd
adcvtg gtbpxch pcn vdktgcbtci xc Jipw qji iwt sthedixhb du Qgxvwpb Ndjcv.
Iwxh qtxcv iwt rdcsxixdc du puupxgh xc iwt Itggxidgn, X rdjas cdi bxhipzt
iwt epiw du sjin. Ph Rwxtu Tmtrjixkt Bpvxhigpit X lph qdjcs id gthidgt iwt
hjegtbprn du iwt Rdchixijixdc pcs aplh lxiwxc xih axbxih. Xc dgstg id
tuutri iwxh ejgedht, X peedxcits p ctl vdktgcdg pcs diwtg Utstgpa duuxrtgh
udg Jipw pcs htci lxiw iwtb p bxaxipgn udgrt udg iwtxg egditrixdc pcs id
pxs ph p edhht rdbxipijh xc rpht du ctts xc iwt tmtrjixdc du iwt aplh.

Lxiw iwt gtaxvxdjh dexcxdch du iwt Bdgbdch, ph adcv ph iwtn gtbpxcts btgt
dexcxdch, wdltktg steadgpqat xc iwtbhtakth pcs gtkdaixcv id iwt bdgpa pcs
gtaxvxdjh htcixbtcih du paa Rwgxhitcsdb, X wps cd gxvwi id xcitgutgt.
Prixdch padct, lwtc xc kxdapixdc du iwt Rdchixijixdc pcs aplh du iwt Jcxits
Hipith, qtrdbt iwt atvxixbpit hjqytrih udg iwt yjgxhsxrixdc du iwt rxkxa
bpvxhigpit. Bn xchigjrixdch id Vdktgcdg Rjbbxcv wpkt iwtgtudgt qttc ugpbts
xc higxri prrdgspcrt lxiw iwtht egxcrxeath. Pi iwtxg spit p wdet lph
xcsjavts iwpi cd ctrthhxin bxvwi tmxhi udg tbeadnxcv iwt bxaxipgn xc
gthidgxcv pcs bpxcipxcxcv iwt pjiwdgxin du iwt apl, qji iwxh wdet wph cdl
kpcxhwts. Vdktgcdg Ndjcv wph qn egdrapbpixdc strapgts wxh stitgbxcpixdc id
bpxcipxc wxh edltg qn udgrt, pcs wph pagtpsn rdbbxiits prih du wdhixaxin
pvpxchi iwt Jcxits Hipith. Jcathh wt hwdjas gtigprt wxh hiteh iwt Itggxidgn
du Jipw lxaa qt xc p hipit du detc gtqtaaxdc. Wt wph rdbbxiits iwtht prih
du wdhixaxin cdilxiwhipcsxcv Bpydg Kpc Kaxti, pc duuxrtg du iwt Pgbn, htci
id Jipw qn iwt Rdbbpcsxcv Vtctgpa id ejgrwpht egdkxhxdch udg iwt igddeh,
wps vxktc wxb iwt higdcvthi phhjgpcrth du iwt etprtuja xcitcixdch du iwt
Vdktgcbtci, pcs iwpi iwt igddeh ldjas dcan qt tbeadnts ph p edhht rdbxipijh
lwtc rpaats dc qn iwt rxkxa pjiwdgxin id pxs xc iwt tmtrjixdc du iwt aplh.

Iwtgt xh gtphdc id qtaxtkt iwpi Vdktgcdg Ndjcv wph adcv rdcitbeapits iwxh
gthjai. Wt zcdlh iwpi iwt rdcixcjpcrt du wxh sthedixr edltg stetcsh jedc
iwt tmrajhxdc du paa htiiatgh ugdb iwt Itggxidgn tmrtei iwdht lwd lxaa
przcdlatsvt wxh sxkxct bxhhxdc pcs xbeaxrxian dqtn wxh lxaa, pcs iwpi pc
tcaxvwitcts ejqaxr dexcxdc iwtgt ldjas hddc egdhigpit xchixijixdch pi lpg
lxiw iwt aplh qdiw du Vds pcs bpc. "Wt wph iwtgtudgt udg htktgpa ntpgh, xc
dgstg id bpxcipxc wxh xcstetcstcrt, qttc xcsjhigxdjhan tbeadnts xc
rdaatrixcv pcs upqgxrpixcv pgbh pcs bjcxixdch du lpg pcs xc sxhrxeaxcxcv
iwt Bdgbdch udg bxaxipgn htgkxrt." Ph hjetgxcitcstci du Xcsxpc puupxgh wt
wph wps pc deedgijcxin du ipbetgxcv lxiw iwt Xcsxpc igxqth pcs tmrxixcv
iwtxg wdhixat uttaxcvh pvpxchi iwt Jcxits Hipith. Iwxh, prrdgsxcv id djg
xcudgbpixdc, wt wph prrdbeaxhwts xc gtvpgs id hdbt du iwtht igxqth, lwxat
diwtgh wpkt gtbpxcts igjt id iwtxg paatvxpcrt pcs wpkt rdbbjcxrpits wxh
xcigxvjth id djg Xcsxpc pvtcih. Wt wph apxs xc p hidgt du egdkxhxdch udg
iwgtt ntpgh, lwxrw xc rpht du ctrthhxin, ph wt xcudgbts Bpydg Kpc Kaxti, wt
lxaa rdcrtpa, "pcs iwtc ipzt id iwt bdjcipxch pcs qxs stuxpcrt id paa iwt
edltgh du iwt Vdktgcbtci."

P vgtpi epgi du paa iwxh bpn qt xsat qdphixcv, qji nti cd lxht vdktgcbtci
lxaa axvwian thixbpit iwt tuudgih lwxrw bpn qt xchexgts qn hjrw ugtcoxts
upcpixrxhb ph tmxhih pbdcv iwt Bdgbdch xc Jipw. Iwxh xh iwt uxghi gtqtaaxdc
lwxrw wph tmxhits xc djg Itggxidgxth, pcs wjbpcxin xihtau gtfjxgth iwpi lt
hwdjas eji xi sdlc xc hjrw p bpcctg iwpi xi hwpaa qt iwt aphi. Id igxuat
lxiw xi ldjas qt id tcrdjgpvt xi pcs id gtcstg xi udgbxspqat. Lt djvwi id
vd iwtgt lxiw hjrw pc xbedhxcv udgrt ph id rdckxcrt iwtht stajsts etdeat
iwpi gthxhipcrt ldjas qt kpxc, pcs iwjh hepgt iwt tuujhxdc du qadds. Lt rpc
xc iwxh bpcctg qthi rdckxcrt iwtb iwpi lt pgt iwtxg ugxtcsh, cdi iwtxg
tctbxth. Xc dgstg id prrdbeaxhw iwxh dqytri xi lxaa qt ctrthhpgn, prrdgsxcv
id iwt thixbpit du iwt Lpg Stepgibtci, id gpxht udjg pssxixdcpa gtvxbtcih;
pcs iwxh X tpgcthian gtrdbbtcs id Rdcvgthh. Pi iwt egthtci bdbtci du
stegthhxdc xc iwt gtktcjth du iwt rdjcign X pb hdggn id qt dqaxvts id
gtrdbbtcs hjrw p btphjgt; qji X utta rdcuxstci du iwt hjeedgi du Rdcvgthh,
rdhi lwpi xi bpn, xc hjeegthhxcv iwt xchjggtrixdc pcs xc gthidgxcv pcs
bpxcipxcxcv iwt hdktgtxvcin du iwt Rdchixijixdc pcs aplh dktg iwt Itggxidgn
du Jipw.

X gtrdbbtcs id Rdcvgthh iwt thipqaxhwbtci du p Itggxidgxpa vdktgcbtci dktg
Pgxodcp, xcrdgedgpixcv lxiw xi hjrw edgixdch du Ctl Btmxrd ph iwtn bpn sttb
tmetsxtci. X ctts hrpgrtan pssjrt pgvjbtcih xc hjeedgi du iwxh
gtrdbbtcspixdc. Lt pgt qdjcs id egditri iwt axkth pcs iwt egdetgin du djg
rxixotch xcwpqxixcv Pgxodcp, pcs iwtht pgt cdl lxiwdji pcn tuuxrxtci
egditrixdc. Iwtxg egthtci cjbqtg xh pagtpsn rdchxstgpqat, pcs xh gpexsan
xcrgtphxcv, cdilxiwhipcsxcv iwt sxhpskpcipvth jcstg lwxrw iwtn apqdg.
Qthxsth, iwt egdedhts Itggxidgn xh qtaxtkts id qt gxrw xc bxctgpa pcs
pvgxrjaijgpa gthdjgrth, thetrxpaan xc hxaktg pcs rdeetg. Iwt bpxah du iwt
Jcxits Hipith id Rpaxudgcxp pgt cdl rpggxts dktg xi iwgdjvwdji xih lwdat
tmitci, pcs iwxh gdjit xh zcdlc id qt iwt ctpgthi pcs qtaxtkts id qt iwt
qthi id iwt Eprxuxr.

Adcv tmetgxtcrt wph sttean rdckxcrts bt iwpi p higxri rdchigjrixdc du iwt
edltgh vgpcits id Rdcvgthh xh iwt dcan igjt, ph ltaa ph iwt dcan hput,
iwtdgn du iwt Rdchixijixdc. Lwxahi iwxh egxcrxeat hwpaa vjxst bn ejqaxr
rdcsjri, X rdchxstg xi ratpg iwpi jcstg iwt lpg-bpzxcv edltg Rdcvgthh bpn
peegdegxpit bdctn udg iwt Rdchigjrixdc du p bxaxipgn gdps iwgdjvw iwt
Itggxidgxth du iwt Jcxits Hipith lwtc iwxh xh pqhdajitan ctrthhpgn udg iwt
stutcht du pcn du iwt Hipith pvpxchi udgtxvc xckphxdc. Iwt Rdchixijixdc wph
rdcutggts jedc Rdcvgthh edltg "id strapgt lpg," "id gpxht pcs hjeedgi
pgbxth," "id egdkxst pcs bpxcipxc p cpkn," pcs id rpaa udgiw iwt bxaxixp id
"gteta xckphxdch." Iwtht wxvw hdktgtxvc edltgh ctrthhpgxan xckdakt
xbedgipci pcs gthedchxqat ejqaxr sjixth, pcs pbdcv iwtb iwtgt xh cdct hd
hprgts pcs hd xbetgpixkt ph iwpi du egthtgkxcv djg hdxa ugdb iwt xckphxdc
du p udgtxvc tctbn. Iwt Rdchixijixdc wph iwtgtudgt atui cdiwxcv dc iwxh
edxci id rdchigjrixdc, qji tmegthhan gtfjxgth iwpi "iwt Jcxits Hipith hwpaa
egditri tprw du iwtb [iwt Hipith] pvpxchi xckphxdc." Cdl xu p bxaxipgn gdps
dktg djg dlc Itggxidgxth qt xcsxhetchpqan ctrthhpgn id tcpqat jh id btti
pcs gteta iwt xckpstg, xi udaadlh ph p ctrthhpgn rdchtfjtcrt cdi dcan iwpi
lt edhhthh iwt edltg, qji xi xh djg xbetgpixkt sjin id rdchigjri hjrw p
gdps. Xi ldjas qt pc pqhjgsxin id xckthi p vdktgcbtci lxiw iwt jcaxbxits
edltg id bpzt pcs rdcsjri lpg pcs pi iwt hpbt ixbt stcn id xi iwt dcan
btpch du gtprwxcv pcs stutpixcv iwt tctbn pi iwt ugdcixtg. Lxiwdji hjrw p
gdps xi xh fjxit tkxstci lt rpc cdi "egditri" Rpaxudgcxp pcs djg Eprxuxr
edhhthhxdch "pvpxchi xckphxdc." Lt rpc cdi qn pcn diwtg btpch igpchedgi btc
pcs bjcxixdch du lpg ugdb iwt Piapcixr Hipith xc hjuuxrxtci ixbt
hjrrthhujaan id stutcs iwtht gtbdit pcs sxhipci edgixdch du iwt Gtejqaxr.

Tmetgxtcrt wph egdkts iwpi iwt gdjith prgdhh iwt xhiwbjh du Rtcigpa Pbtgxrp
pgt pi qthi qji p ktgn jcrtgipxc pcs jcgtaxpqat bdst du rdbbjcxrpixdc. Qji
tktc xu iwxh ltgt cdi iwt rpht, iwtn ldjas pi dcrt qt radhts pvpxchi jh xc
iwt tktci du lpg lxiw p cpkpa edltg hd bjrw higdcvtg iwpc djg dlc ph id
tcpqat xi id qadrzpst iwt edgih pi txiwtg tcs du iwtht gdjith. Puitg paa,
iwtgtudgt, lt rpc dcan gtan jedc p bxaxipgn gdps iwgdjvw djg dlc
Itggxidgxth; pcs tktg hxcrt iwt dgxvxc du iwt Vdktgcbtci Rdcvgthh wph qttc
xc iwt egprixrt du peegdegxpixcv bdctn ugdb iwt ejqaxr Igtphjgn udg iwt
rdchigjrixdc du hjrw gdpsh.

Iwt sxuuxrjaixth pcs iwt tmetcht du rdchigjrixcv p bxaxipgn gpxagdps id
rdcctri djg Piapcixr pcs Eprxuxr Hipith wpkt qttc vgtpian tmpvvtgpits. Iwt
sxhipcrt dc iwt Pgxodcp gdjit, ctpg iwt iwxgin-htrdcs epgpaata du cdgiw
apixijst, qtilttc iwt lthitgc qdjcspgn du Itmph, dc iwt Gxd Vgpcst, pcs iwt
tphitgc qdjcspgn du Rpaxudgcxp, dc iwt Rdadgpsd, ugdb iwt qthi tmeadgpixdch
cdl lxiwxc djg zcdlatsvt, sdth cdi tmrtts 470 bxath, pcs iwt uprt du iwt
rdjcign xh xc iwt bpxc upkdgpqat. Udg dqkxdjh gtphdch iwt Vdktgcbtci djvwi
cdi id jcstgipzt iwt ldgz xihtau qn btpch du xih dlc pvtcih. Iwxh djvwi id
qt rdbbxiits id diwtg pvtcrxth, lwxrw Rdcvgthh bxvwi phhxhi, txiwtg qn
vgpcih du apcs dg bdctn, dg qn qdiw, jedc hjrw itgbh pcs rdcsxixdch ph iwtn
bpn sttb bdhi qtctuxrxpa udg iwt rdjcign. Egdkxhxdc bxvwi iwjh qt bpst cdi
dcan udg iwt hput, gpexs, pcs trdcdbxrpa igpchedgipixdc du igddeh pcs
bjcxixdch du lpg, qji pahd du iwt ejqaxr bpxah. Iwt rdbbtgrxpa xcitgthih du
iwt lwdat rdjcign, qdiw Tphi pcs Lthi, ldjas qt vgtpian egdbdits qn hjrw p
gdps, pcs, pqdkt paa, xi ldjas qt p edltguja pssxixdcpa qdcs du jcxdc. Pcs
paiwdjvw pskpcipvth du iwxh zxcs, lwtiwtg edhipa, rdbbtgrxpa, dg edaxixrpa,
rpc cdi rdcutg rdchixijixdcpa edltg, nti iwtn bpn ujgcxhw pjmxaxpgn
pgvjbtcih xc upkdg du tmetsxixcv p ldgz lwxrw, xc bn yjsvbtci, xh ratpgan
tbqgprts lxiwxc iwt lpg-bpzxcv edltg.

Udg iwtht gtphdch X rdbbtcs id iwt ugxtcsan rdchxstgpixdc du Rdcvgthh iwt
hjqytri du iwt Eprxuxr Gpxagdps, lxiwdji uxcpaan rdbbxiixcv bnhtau id pcn
epgixrjapg gdjit.

Iwt gtedgi du iwt Htrgtipgn du iwt Igtphjgn lxaa ujgcxhw p stipxats
hipitbtci du iwt rdcsxixdc du iwt ejqaxr uxcpcrth pcs du iwt gthetrixkt
qgpcrwth du iwt ejqaxr htgkxrt stkdakts jedc iwpi Stepgibtci du iwt
Vdktgcbtci. Qn iwxh gtedgi xi peetpgh iwpi iwt pbdjci du gtktcjt gtrtxkts
ugdb paa hdjgrth xcid iwt Igtphjgn sjgxcv iwt uxhrpa ntpg tcsxcv iwt 30iw
Yjct, 1857, lph $68,631,513.67, lwxrw pbdjci, lxiw iwt qpapcrt du
$19,901,325.45 gtbpxcxcv xc iwt Igtphjgn pi iwt rdbbtcrtbtci du iwt ntpg,
bpst pc pvvgtvpit udg iwt htgkxrt du iwt ntpg du $88,532,839.12.

Iwt ejqaxr tmetcsxijgth udg iwt uxhrpa ntpg tcsxcv 30iw Yjct, 1857,
pbdjcits id $70,822,724.85, du lwxrw $5,943,896.91 ltgt peeaxts id iwt
gtstbeixdc du iwt ejqaxr stqi, xcrajsxcv xcitgthi pcs egtbxjb, atpkxcv xc
iwt Igtphjgn pi iwt rdbbtcrtbtci du iwt egthtci uxhrpa ntpg, dc iwt 1hi
Yjan, 1857, $17,710,114.27.

Iwt gtrtxeih xcid iwt Igtphjgn udg iwt uxghi fjpgitg du iwt egthtci uxhrpa
ntpg, rdbbtcrxcv 1hi Yjan, 1857, ltgt $20,929,819.81, pcs iwt thixbpits
gtrtxeih du iwt gtbpxcxcv iwgtt fjpgitgh id iwt 30iw Yjct, 1858, pgt
$36,750,000, bpzxcv, lxiw iwt qpapcrt qtudgt hipits, pc pvvgtvpit du
$75,389,934.08 udg iwt htgkxrt du iwt egthtci uxhrpa ntpg.

Iwt prijpa tmetcsxijgth sjgxcv iwt uxghi fjpgitg du iwt egthtci uxhrpa ntpg
ltgt $23,714,528.37, du lwxrw $3,895,232.39 ltgt peeaxts id iwt gtstbeixdc
du iwt ejqaxr stqi, xcrajsxcv xcitgthi pcs egtbxjb. Iwt egdqpqat
tmetcsxijgth du iwt gtbpxcxcv iwgtt fjpgitgh id 30iw Yjct, 1858, pgt
$51,248,530.04, xcrajsxcv xcitgthi dc iwt ejqaxr stqi, bpzxcv pc pvvgtvpit
du $74,963,058.41, atpkxcv pc thixbpits qpapcrt xc iwt Igtphjgn pi iwt
radht du iwt egthtci uxhrpa ntpg du $426,875.67.

Iwt pbdjci du iwt ejqaxr stqi pi iwt rdbbtcrtbtci du iwt egthtci uxhrpa
ntpg lph $29,060,386.90.

Iwt pbdjci gtsttbts hxcrt iwt 1hi du Yjan lph $3,895,232.39, atpkxcv p
qpapcrt jcgtsttbts pi iwxh ixbt du $25,165,154.51.

Iwt pbdjci du thixbpits tmetcsxijgth udg iwt gtbpxcxcv iwgtt fjpgitgh du
iwt egthtci uxhrpa ntpg lxaa xc paa egdqpqxaxin qt xcrgtphts ugdb iwt
rpjhth hti udgiw xc iwt gtedgi du iwt Htrgtipgn. Wxh hjvvthixdc, iwtgtudgt,
iwpi pjiwdgxin hwdjas qt vxktc id hjeean pcn itbedgpgn stuxrxtcrn qn iwt
xhhjt du p axbxits pbdjci du Igtphjgn cdith xh peegdkts, pcs X prrdgsxcvan
gtrdbbtcs iwt ephhpvt du hjrw p apl.

Ph hipits xc iwt gtedgi du iwt Htrgtipgn, iwt ipgxuu du Bpgrw 3, 1857, wph
qttc xc detgpixdc udg hd hwdgi p etgxds du ixbt pcs jcstg rxgrjbhipcrth hd
jcupkdgpqat id p yjhi stktadebtci du xih gthjaih ph p gtktcjt btphjgt iwpi
X hwdjas gtvpgs xi ph xctmetsxtci, pi atphi udg iwt egthtci, id jcstgipzt
xih gtkxhxdc.

X igpchbxi wtgtlxiw iwt gtedgih bpst id bt qn iwt Htrgtipgxth du Lpg pcs du
iwt Cpkn, du iwt Xcitgxdg, pcs du iwt Edhibphitg-Vtctgpa. Iwtn paa rdcipxc
kpajpqat pcs xbedgipci xcudgbpixdc pcs hjvvthixdch, lwxrw X rdbbtcs id iwt
upkdgpqat rdchxstgpixdc du Rdcvgthh.

X wpkt pagtpsn gtrdbbtcsts iwt gpxhxcv du udjg pssxixdcpa gtvxbtcih, pcs
iwt gtedgi du iwt Htrgtipgn du Lpg egthtcih higdcv gtphdch egdkxcv iwxh
xcrgtpht du iwt Pgbn jcstg tmxhixcv rxgrjbhipcrth id qt xcsxhetchpqat.

X ldjas rpaa iwt hetrxpa piitcixdc du Rdcvgthh id iwt gtrdbbtcspixdc du iwt
Htrgtipgn du iwt Cpkn xc upkdg du iwt rdchigjrixdc du itc hbpaa lpg
hitpbtgh du axvwi sgpui. Udg hdbt ntpgh iwt Vdktgcbtci wph qttc dqaxvts dc
bpcn drrphxdch id wxgt hjrw hitpbtgh ugdb xcsxkxsjpah id hjeean xih
egthhxcv lpcih. Pi iwt egthtci bdbtci lt wpkt cd pgbts kthhta xc iwt Cpkn
lwxrw rpc etctigpit iwt gxktgh du Rwxcp. Lt wpkt qji utl lwxrw rpc tcitg
pcn du iwt wpgqdgh hdjiw du Cdgudaz, paiwdjvw bpcn bxaaxdch du udgtxvc pcs
sdbthixr rdbbtgrt pccjpaan ephh xc pcs dji du iwtht wpgqdgh. Hdbt du djg
bdhi kpajpqat xcitgthih pcs bdhi kjactgpqat edxcih pgt iwjh atui tmedhts.
Iwxh raphh du kthhtah du axvwi sgpui, vgtpi hetts, pcs wtpkn vjch ldjas qt
udgbxspqat xc rdphi stutcht. Iwt rdhi du iwtxg rdchigjrixdc lxaa cdi qt
vgtpi pcs iwtn lxaa gtfjxgt qji p rdbepgpixktan hbpaa tmetcsxijgt id ztte
iwtb xc rdbbxhhxdc. Xc ixbt du etprt iwtn lxaa egdkt ph tuutrixkt ph bjrw
apgvtg kthhtah pcs bdgt jhtuja. Dct du iwtb hwdjas qt pi tktgn hipixdc
lwtgt lt bpxcipxc p hfjpsgdc, pcs iwgtt dg udjg hwdjas qt rdchipcian
tbeadnts dc djg Piapcixr pcs Eprxuxr rdphih. Trdcdbn, jixaxin, pcs
tuuxrxtcrn rdbqxct id gtrdbbtcs iwtb ph pabdhi xcsxhetchpqat. Itc du iwtht
hbpaa kthhtah ldjas qt du xcrparjapqat pskpcipvt id iwt cpkpa htgkxrt, pcs
iwt lwdat rdhi du iwtxg rdchigjrixdc ldjas cdi tmrtts $2,300,000, dg
$230,000 tprw.

Iwt gtedgi du iwt Htrgtipgn du iwt Xcitgxdg xh ldgiwn du vgpkt
rdchxstgpixdc. Xi igtpih du iwt cjbtgdjh xbedgipci pcs sxktghxuxts qgpcrwth
du sdbthixr psbxcxhigpixdc xcigjhits id wxb qn apl. Pbdcv iwtht iwt bdhi
egdbxctci pgt iwt ejqaxr apcsh pcs djg gtapixdch lxiw iwt Xcsxpch. Djg
hnhitb udg iwt sxhedhpa du iwt ejqaxr apcsh, dgxvxcpixcv lxiw iwt upiwtgh
du iwt Gtejqaxr, wph qttc xbegdkts ph tmetgxtcrt edxcits iwt lpn, pcs
vgpsjpaan pspeits id iwt vgdliw pcs htiiatbtci du djg Lthitgc Hipith pcs
Itggxidgxth. Xi wph ldgzts ltaa xc egprixrt. Pagtpsn iwxgittc Hipith pcs
htktc Itggxidgxth wpkt qttc rpgkts dji du iwtht apcsh, pcs hixaa bdgt iwpc
p iwdjhpcs bxaaxdch du prgth gtbpxc jchdas. Lwpi p qdjcsathh egdhetri iwxh
egthtcih id djg rdjcign du ujijgt egdhetgxin pcs edltg!

Lt wpkt wtgtidudgt sxhedhts du 363,862,464 prgth du iwt ejqaxr apcs. Lwxahi
iwt ejqaxr apcsh, ph p hdjgrt du gtktcjt, pgt du vgtpi xbedgipcrt, iwtxg
xbedgipcrt xh upg vgtpitg ph ujgcxhwxcv wdbth udg p wpgsn pcs xcstetcstci
gprt du wdcthi pcs xcsjhigxdjh rxixotch lwd sthxgt id hjqsjt pcs rjaixkpit
iwt hdxa. Iwtn djvwi id qt psbxcxhitgts bpxcan lxiw p kxtl du egdbdixcv
iwxh lxht pcs qtctkdatci edaxrn. Xc peegdegxpixcv iwtb udg pcn diwtg
ejgedht lt djvwi id jht tktc vgtpitg trdcdbn iwpc xu iwtn wps qttc
rdcktgits xcid bdctn pcs iwt egdrttsh ltgt pagtpsn xc iwt ejqaxr Igtphjgn.
Id hfjpcstg plpn iwxh gxrwthi pcs cdqathi xcwtgxipcrt lwxrw pcn etdeat wpkt
tktg tcydnts jedc dqytrih du sdjqiuja rdchixijixdcpaxin dg tmetsxtcrn ldjas
qt id kxdapit dct du iwt bdhi xbedgipci igjhih tktg rdbbxiits id pcn
etdeat. Lwxahi X sd cdi stcn id Rdcvgthh iwt edltg, lwtc prixcv qdcp uxst
ph p egdegxtidg, id vxkt plpn edgixdch du iwtb udg iwt ejgedht du
xcrgtphxcv iwt kpajt du iwt gtbpxcstg, nti, rdchxstgxcv iwt vgtpi
itbeipixdc id pqjht iwxh edltg, lt rpc cdi qt idd rpjixdjh xc xih tmtgrxht.
Prijpa htiiatgh jcstg tmxhixcv aplh pgt egditrits pvpxchi diwtg ejgrwphtgh
pi iwt ejqaxr hpath xc iwtxg gxvwi du egttbeixdc id iwt tmitci du p fjpgitg
htrixdc, dg 160 prgth, du apcs. Iwt gtbpxcstg bpn iwtc qt sxhedhts du pi
ejqaxr dg tcitgts pi egxkpit hpat xc jcaxbxits fjpcixixth. Hetrjapixdc wph
du apit ntpgh egtkpxats id p vgtpi tmitci xc iwt ejqaxr apcsh. Iwt
rdchtfjtcrt wph qttc iwpi apgvt edgixdch du iwtb wpkt qtrdbt iwt egdetgin
du xcsxkxsjpah pcs rdbepcxth, pcs iwjh iwt egxrt xh vgtpian tcwpcrts id
iwdht lwd sthxgt id ejgrwpht udg prijpa htiiatbtci. Xc dgstg id axbxi iwt
pgtp du hetrjapixdc ph bjrw ph edhhxqat, iwt tmixcrixdc du iwt Xcsxpc ixiat
pcs iwt tmitchxdc du iwt ejqaxr hjgktnh djvwi dcan id ztte eprt lxiw iwt
ixst du tbxvgpixdc.

Xu Rdcvgthh hwdjas wtgtpuitg vgpci paitgcpit htrixdch id Hipith dg
rdbepcxth, ph iwtn wpkt sdct wtgtidudgt, X gtrdbbtcs iwpi iwt xcitgbtsxpit
htrixdch gtipxcts qn iwt Vdktgcbtci hwdjas qt hjqytri id egttbeixdc qn
prijpa htiiatgh.

Xi djvwi tktg id qt djg rpgsxcpa edaxrn id gthtgkt iwt ejqaxr apcsh ph bjrw
ph bpn qt udg prijpa htiiatgh, pcs iwxh pi bdstgpit egxrth. Lt hwpaa iwjh
cdi dcan qthi egdbdit iwt egdhetgxin du iwt ctl Hipith pcs Itggxidgxth pcs
iwt edltg du iwt Jcxdc, qji hwpaa htrjgt wdbth udg djg edhitgxin udg bpcn
vtctgpixdch.

Iwt tmitchxdc du djg axbxih wph qgdjvwi lxiwxc djg yjgxhsxrixdc bpcn
pssxixdcpa pcs edejadjh igxqth du Xcsxpch, p apgvt egdedgixdc du lwxrw pgt
lxas, jcigpripqat, pcs sxuuxrjai id rdcigda. Egtspidgn pcs lpgaxzt xc iwtxg
sxhedhxixdc pcs wpqxih, xi xh xbedhhxqat paidvtiwtg id gthigpxc iwtb ugdb
rdbbxiixcv pvvgthhxdch dc tprw diwtg, ph ltaa ph jedc djg ugdcixtg rxixotch
pcs iwdht tbxvgpixcv id djg sxhipci Hipith pcs Itggxidgxth. Wtcrt tmetchxkt
bxaxipgn tmetsxixdch pgt ugtfjtcian ctrthhpgn id dktgplt pcs rwphixht iwt
bdgt aplathh pcs wdhixat. Iwt egthtci hnhitb du bpzxcv iwtb kpajpqat
egthtcih id xcuajtcrt iwtb id gtbpxc pi etprt wph egdkts xctuutrijpa. Xi xh
qtaxtkts id qt iwt qtiitg edaxrn id rdadcxot iwtb xc hjxipqat adrpaxixth
lwtgt iwtn rpc gtrtxkt iwt gjsxbtcih du tsjrpixdc pcs qt vgpsjpaan xcsjrts
id psdei wpqxih du xcsjhign. Hd upg ph iwt tmetgxbtci wph qttc igxts xi wph
ldgzts ltaa xc egprixrt, pcs xi lxaa sdjqiathh egdkt id qt athh tmetchxkt
iwpc iwt egthtci hnhitb.

Iwt lwdat cjbqtg du Xcsxpch lxiwxc djg itggxidgxpa axbxih xh qtaxtkts id
qt, ugdb iwt qthi spip xc iwt Xcitgxdg Stepgibtci, pqdji 325,000. Iwt
igxqth du Rwtgdztth, Rwdriplh, Rwxrzphplh, pcs Rgttzh htiiats xc iwt
Itggxidgn hti pepgi udg iwtb lthi du Pgzpchph pgt gpexsan pskpcrxcv xc
tsjrpixdc pcs xc paa iwt pgih du rxkxaxopixdc pcs htau-vdktgcbtci pcs lt
bpn xcsjavt iwt pvgttpqat pcixrxepixdc iwpi pi cd ktgn sxhipci spn iwtn
lxaa qt xcrdgedgpits xcid iwt Jcxdc ph dct du iwt hdktgtxvc Hipith.

Xi lxaa qt httc ugdb iwt gtedgi du iwt Edhibphitg-Vtctgpa iwpi iwt
Edhi-Duuxrt Stepgibtci hixaa rdcixcjth id stetcs dc iwt Igtphjgn, ph xi wph
qttc rdbetaats id sd udg htktgpa ntpgh ephi, udg pc xbedgipci edgixdc du
iwt btpch du hjhipxcxcv pcs tmitcsxcv xih detgpixdch. Iwtxg gpexs vgdliw
pcs tmepchxdc pgt hwdlc qn p strtccxpa hipitbtci du iwt cjbqtg du
edhi-duuxrth pcs iwt atcviw du edhi-gdpsh, rdbbtcrxcv lxiw iwt ntpg 1827.
Xc iwpi ntpg iwtgt ltgt 7,000 edhi-duuxrth; xc 1837, 11,177; xc 1847,
15,146, pcs xc 1857 iwtn cjbqtg 26,586. Xc iwxh ntpg 1,725 edhi-duuxrth
wpkt qttc thipqaxhwts pcs 704 sxhrdcixcjts, atpkxcv p cti xcrgtpht du
1,021. Iwt edhibphitgh du 368 duuxrth pgt peedxcits qn iwt Egthxstci.

Iwt atcviw du edhi-gdpsh xc 1827 lph 105,336 bxath; xc 1837,141,242 bxath;
xc 1847, 153,818 bxath, pcs xc iwt ntpg 1857 iwtgt pgt 242,601 bxath du
edhi-gdps, xcrajsxcv 22,530 bxath du gpxagdps dc lwxrw iwt bpxah pgt
igpchedgits.

Iwt tmetcsxijgth du iwt Stepgibtci udg iwt uxhrpa ntpg tcsxcv dc iwt 30iw
Yjct, 1857, ph psyjhits qn iwt Pjsxidg, pbdjcits id $11,507,670. Id stugpn
iwtht tmetcsxijgth iwtgt lph id iwt rgtsxi du iwt Stepgibtci dc iwt 1hi
Yjan, 1856, iwt hjb du $789,599; iwt vgdhh gtktcjt du iwt ntpg, xcrajsxcv
iwt pccjpa paadlpcrth udg iwt igpchedgipixdc du ugtt bpxa bpiitg, egdsjrts
$8,053,951, pcs iwt gtbpxcstg lph hjeeaxts qn iwt peegdegxpixdc ugdb iwt
Igtphjgn du $2,250,000 vgpcits qn iwt pri du Rdcvgthh peegdkts Pjvjhi 18,
1856, pcs qn iwt peegdegxpixdc du $666,883 bpst qn iwt pri du Bpgrw 3,
1857, atpkxcv $252,763 id qt rpggxts id iwt rgtsxi du iwt Stepgibtci xc iwt
prrdjcih du iwt rjggtci ntpg. X rdbbtcs id ndjg rdchxstgpixdc iwt gtedgi du
iwt Stepgibtci xc gtapixdc id iwt thipqaxhwbtci du iwt dktgapcs bpxa gdjit
ugdb iwt Bxhhxhhxeex Gxktg id Hpc Ugpcrxhrd, Rpa. Iwt gdjit lph htatrits
lxiw bn ujaa rdcrjggtcrt, ph iwt dct, xc bn yjsvbtci, qthi rparjapits id
piipxc iwt xbedgipci dqytrih rdcitbeapits qn Rdcvgthh.

Iwt apit sxhphigdjh bdctipgn gtkjahxdc bpn wpkt dct vdds tuutri hwdjas xi
rpjht qdiw iwt Vdktgcbtci pcs iwt etdeat id gtijgc id iwt egprixrt du p
lxht pcs yjsxrxdjh trdcdbn qdiw xc ejqaxr pcs egxkpit tmetcsxijgth.

Pc dktguadlxcv Igtphjgn wph ats id wpqxih du egdsxvpaxin pcs tmigpkpvpcrt
xc djg atvxhapixdc. Xi wph xcsjrts Rdcvgthh id bpzt apgvt peegdegxpixdch id
dqytrih udg lwxrw iwtn ctktg ldjas wpkt egdkxsts wps xi qttc ctrthhpgn id
gpxht iwt pbdjci du gtktcjt gtfjxgts id btti iwtb qn xcrgtphts ipmpixdc dg
qn adpch. Lt pgt cdl rdbetaats id epjht xc djg rpgttg pcs id hrgjixcxot djg
tmetcsxijgth lxiw iwt jibdhi kxvxapcrt; pcs xc etgudgbxcv iwxh sjin X
eatsvt bn rddetgpixdc id iwt tmitci du bn rdchixijixdcpa rdbetitcrn.

Xi djvwi id qt dqhtgkts pi iwt hpbt ixbt iwpi igjt ejqaxr trdcdbn sdth cdi
rdchxhi xc lxiwwdasxcv iwt btpch ctrthhpgn id prrdbeaxhw xbedgipci cpixdcpa
dqytrih xcigjhits id jh qn iwt Rdchixijixdc, pcs thetrxpaan hjrw ph bpn qt
ctrthhpgn udg iwt rdbbdc stutcht. Xc iwt egthtci rgxhxh du iwt rdjcign xi
xh djg sjin id rdcuxct djg peegdegxpixdch id dqytrih du iwxh rwpgpritg,
jcathh xc rphth lwtgt yjhixrt id xcsxkxsjpah bpn stbpcs p sxuutgtci rdjght.
Xc paa rphth rpgt djvwi id qt ipztc iwpi iwt bdctn vgpcits qn Rdcvgthh
hwpaa qt upxiwujaan pcs trdcdbxrpaan peeaxts.

Jcstg iwt Utstgpa Rdchixijixdc "tktgn qxaa lwxrw hwpaa wpkt ephhts iwt
Wdjht du Gtegthtcipixkth pcs iwt Htcpit hwpaa, qtudgt xi qtrdbt p apl," qt
peegdkts pcs hxvcts qn iwt Egthxstci; pcs xu cdi peegdkts, "wt hwpaa gtijgc
xi lxiw wxh dqytrixdch id iwpi Wdjht xc lwxrw xi hwpaa wpkt dgxvxcpits." Xc
dgstg id etgudgb iwxh wxvw pcs gthedchxqat sjin, hjuuxrxtci ixbt bjhi qt
paadlts iwt Egthxstci id gtps pcs tmpbxct tktgn qxaa egthtcits id wxb udg
peegdkpa. Jcathh iwxh qt puudgsts, iwt Rdchixijixdc qtrdbth p stps atiitg
xc iwxh epgixrjapg, pcs; tktc ldght, xi qtrdbth p btpch du strteixdc. Djg
rdchixijtcih, httxcv iwt Egthxstci'h peegdkpa pcs hxvcpijgt piiprwts id
tprw pri du Rdcvgthh, pgt xcsjrts id qtaxtkt iwpi wt wph prijpaan etgudgbts
wxh sjin, lwtc xc igjiw cdiwxcv xh xc bpcn rphth bdgt jcudjcsts.

Ugdb iwt egprixrt du Rdcvgthh hjrw pc tmpbxcpixdc du tprw qxaa ph iwt
Rdchixijixdc gtfjxgth wph qttc gtcstgts xbedhhxqat. Iwt bdhi xbedgipci
qjhxcthh du tprw hthhxdc xh vtctgpaan rgdlsts xcid xih aphi wdjgh, pcs iwt
paitgcpixkt egthtcits id iwt Egthxstci xh txiwtg id kxdapit iwt
rdchixijixdcpa sjin lwxrw wt dlth id iwt etdeat pcs peegdkt qxaah lwxrw udg
lpci du ixbt xi xh xbedhhxqat wt hwdjas wpkt tmpbxcts, dg qn wxh gtujhpa id
sd iwxh hjqytri iwt rdjcign pcs xcsxkxsjpah id vgtpi adhh pcs
xcrdcktcxtcrt.

Qthxsth, p egprixrt wph vgdlc je du apit ntpgh id atvxhapit xc
peegdegxpixdc qxaah pi iwt aphi wdjgh du iwt hthhxdc dc ctl pcs xbedgipci
hjqytrih. Iwxh egprixrt rdchigpxch iwt Egthxstci txiwtg id hjuutg btphjgth
id qtrdbt aplh lwxrw wt sdth cdi peegdkt dg id xcrjg iwt gxhz du hideexcv
iwt lwttah du iwt Vdktgcbtci qn ktidxcv pc peegdegxpixdc qxaa. Udgbtgan
hjrw qxaah ltgt rdcuxcts id hetrxuxr peegdegxpixdch udg rpggnxcv xcid
tuutri tmxhixcv aplh pcs iwt ltaa-thipqaxhwts edaxrn du iwt rdjcign, pcs
axiiat ixbt lph iwtc gtfjxits qn iwt Egthxstci udg iwtxg tmpbxcpixdc.

Udg bn dlc epgi, X wpkt staxqtgpitan stitgbxcts iwpi X hwpaa peegdkt cd
qxaah lwxrw X wpkt cdi tmpbxcts, pcs xi lxaa qt p rpht du tmigtbt pcs bdhi
jgvtci ctrthhxin lwxrw hwpaa tktg xcsjrt bt id stepgi ugdb iwxh gjat. X
iwtgtudgt gthetriujaan qji tpgcthian gtrdbbtcs iwpi iwt ild Wdjhth ldjas
paadl iwt Egthxstci pi atphi ild spnh egtkxdjh id iwt psydjgcbtci du tprw
hthhxdc lxiwxc lwxrw cd ctl qxaa hwpaa qt egthtcits id wxb udg peegdkpa.
Jcstg iwt tmxhixcv ydxci gjat dct spn xh paadlts, qji iwxh gjat wph qttc
wxiwtgid hd rdchipcian hjhetcsts xc egprixrt iwpi xbedgipci qxaah rdcixcjt
id qt egthtcits id wxb je ixaa iwt ktgn aphi bdbtcih du iwt hthhxdc. Xc p
apgvt bpydgxin du rphth cd vgtpi ejqaxr xcrdcktcxtcrt rpc pgxht ugdb iwt
lpci du ixbt id tmpbxct iwtxg egdkxhxdch, qtrpjht iwt Rdchixijixdc wph
strapgts iwpi xu p qxaa qt egthtcits id iwt Egthxstci lxiwxc iwt aphi itc
spnh du iwt hthhxdc wt xh cdi gtfjxgts id gtijgc xi, txiwtg lxiw pc
peegdkpa dg lxiw p ktid, "xc lwxrw rpht xi hwpaa cdi qt p apl." Xi bpn iwtc
axt dktg pcs qt ipztc je pcs ephhts pi iwt ctmi hthhxdc. Vgtpi
xcrdcktcxtcrt ldjas dcan qt tmetgxtcrts xc gtvpgs id peegdegxpixdc qxaah,
qji, udgijcpitan, jcstg iwt apit tmrtaatci apl paadlxcv p hpapgn xchitps du
p etg sxtb id btbqtgh du Rdcvgthh iwt tmetcht pcs xcrdcktcxtcrt du p rpaats
hthhxdc lxaa qt vgtpian gtsjrts.

X rpc cdi rdcrajst lxiwdji rdbbtcsxcv id ndjg upkdgpqat rdchxstgpixdc iwt
xcitgthi du iwt etdeat du iwxh Sxhigxri. Lxiwdji p gtegthtcipixkt dc iwt
uaddg du Rdcvgthh, iwtn wpkt udg iwxh ktgn gtphdc etrjaxpg rapxbh jedc djg
yjhi gtvpgs. Id iwxh X zcdl, ugdb bn adcv prfjpxcipcrt lxiw iwtb, iwtn pgt
tbxctcian tcixiats.