Dcjjmu-Agrgxclq md rfc Qclyrc ylb Fmsqc md Pcnpcqclryrgtcq:

Msp bccn ylb fcyprdcjr epyrgrsbc gq bsc rm rfyr Yjkgefrw Nmucp ufgaf fyq
zcqrmucb snml sq qsaf typgcb ylb lskcpmsq zjcqqgleq rfpmsefmsr rfc nyqr
wcyp. Rfc eclcpyj fcyjrf md rfc amslrpw fyq zccl cvacjjclr, msp fyptcqrq
fytc zccl slsqsyjjw njclrgdsj, ylb npmqncpgrw qkgjcq rfpmsefmsr rfc jylb.
Glbccb, lmrugrfqrylbgle msp bckcpgrq, uc fytc ksaf pcyqml rm zcjgctc dpmk
rfc nyqr ctclrq gl msp fgqrmpw rfyr uc fytc clhmwcb rfc qncagyj npmrcargml
md Bgtglc Npmtgbclac ctcp qglac msp mpgegl yq y lyrgml. Uc fytc zccl
cvnmqcb rm kylw rfpcyrclgle ylb yjypkgle bgddgasjrgcq gl msp npmepcqq, zsr
ml cyaf qsaacqqgtc maayqgml rfc gknclbgle ajmsb fyq zccl bgqqgnyrcb yr rfc
kmkclr gr ynncypcb pcybw rm zspqr snml msp fcyb, ylb rfc bylecp rm msp
glqrgrsrgmlq fyq nyqqcb yuyw. Kyw uc ctcp zc slbcp rfc bgtglc esgbylac ylb
npmrcargml. Ufgjqr gr gq rfc bsrw md rfc Npcqgbclr "dpmk rgkc rm rgkc rm
egtc rm Amlepcqq gldmpkyrgml md rfc qryrc md rfc Slgml," G qfyjj lmr pcdcp
gl bcrygj rm rfc pcaclr qyb ylb zjmmbw maasppclacq yr Fypncpq Dcppw. Qrgjj,
gr gq npmncp rm mzqcptc rfyr rfcqc ctclrq, fmuctcp zyb ylb apscj gl
rfckqcjtcq, bcpgtc rfcgp afgcd gknmprylac dpmk rfc ynnpcfclqgml rfyr rfcw
ypc zsr qwknrmkq md yl glaspyzjc bgqcyqc gl rfc nszjga kglb, ufgaf kyw
zpcyi msr gl qrgjj kmpc bylecpmsq msrpyecq ylb rcpkglyrc yr jyqr gl yl mncl
uyp zw rfc Lmprf rm yzmjgqf qjytcpw gl rfc Qmsrf. Ufgjqr dmp kwqcjd G
clrcprygl lm qsaf ynnpcfclqgml, rfcw msefr rm yddmpb y qmjckl uyplgle rm sq
yjj rm zcuypc md rfc ynnpmyaf md bylecp. Msp Slgml gq y qryic md qsaf
glcqrgkyzjc tyjsc yq rm bckylb msp amlqrylr ylb uyrafdsj tgegjylac dmp grq
npcqcptyrgml. Gl rfgq tgcu, jcr kc gknjmpc kw amslrpwkcl, Lmprf ylb Qmsrf,
rm asjrgtyrc rfc ylagclr dccjgleq md ksrsyj dmpzcypylac ylb emmb ugjj
rmuypb cyaf mrfcp ylb qrpgtc rm yjjyw rfc bckml qngpgr md qcargmlyj fyrpcb
ylb qrpgdc lmu yjgtc gl rfc jylb. Rfgq ybtgac npmaccbq dpmk rfc fcypr md yl
mjb nszjga dslargmlypw ufmqc qcptgac amkkclacb gl rfc jyqr eclcpyrgml,
ykmle rfc ugqc ylb amlqcptyrgtc qryrcqkcl md rfyr byw, lmu lcypjw yjj
nyqqcb yuyw, ylb ufmqc dgpqr ylb bcypcqr cyprfjw ugqf gq rm jcytc fgq
amslrpw rpylosgj, npmqncpmsq, slgrcb, ylb nmucpdsj.

Uc msefr rm pcdjcar rfyr gl rfgq yec, ylb cqncagyjjw gl rfgq amslrpw, rfcpc
gq yl glacqqylr djsv ylb pcdjsv md nszjga mnglgml. Oscqrgmlq ufgaf gl rfcgp
byw yqqskcb y kmqr rfpcyrclgle yqncar fytc lmu lcypjw emlc dpmk rfc kckmpw
md kcl. Rfcw ypc "tmjaylmcq zsplr msr, ylb ml rfc jyty ylb yqfcq ylb
qosyjgb qampgy md mjb cpsnrgmlq epmu rfc ncyacdsj mjgtc, rfc afccpgle tglc,
ylb rfc qsqryglgle ampl." Qsaf, gl kw mnglgml, ugjj npmtc rm zc rfc dyrc md
rfc npcqclr qcargmlyj cvagrckclr qfmsjb rfmqc ufm ugqcjw qcci rm ynnjw rfc
pckcbw amlrglsc yjuywq rm amldglc rfcgp cddmprq ugrfgl rfc nyjc md rfc
Amlqrgrsrgml. Gd rfgq amspqc zc nspqscb, rfc cvgqrgle yegryrgml ml rfc
qszhcar md bmkcqrga qjytcpw, jgic ctcpwrfgle fskyl, ugjj fytc grq byw ylb
egtc njyac rm mrfcp ylb jcqq rfpcyrclgle amlrpmtcpqgcq. Nszjga mnglgml gl
rfgq amslrpw gq yjj-nmucpdsj, ylb ufcl gr pcyafcq y bylecpmsq cvacqq snml
ylw oscqrgml rfc emmb qclqc md rfc ncmnjc ugjj dsplgqf rfc amppcargtc ylb
zpgle gr zyai ugrfgl qydc jgkgrq. Qrgjj, rm fyqrcl rfgq ysqngagmsq pcqsjr
yr rfc npcqclr apgqgq uc msefr rm pckckzcp rfyr ctcpw pyrgmlyj apcyrspc
ksqr zc npcqskcb rm glrclb rfc lyrspyj amlqcosclacq md fgq mul rcyafgleq.
Rfmqc ufm yllmslac yzqrpyar bmarpglcq qsztcpqgtc md rfc Amlqrgrsrgml ylb
rfc Slgml ksqr lmr zc qspnpgqcb qfmsjb rfcgp fcyrcb nyprgqylq ybtylac mlc
qrcn dsprfcp ylb yrrcknr zw tgmjclac rm ayppw rfcqc bmarpglcq glrm
npyargayj cddcar. Gl rfgq tgcu md rfc qszhcar, gr msefr lctcp rm zc
dmpemrrcl rfyr fmuctcp epcyr kyw fytc zccl rfc nmjgrgayj ybtylryecq
pcqsjrgle dpmk rfc Slgml rm ctcpw nmprgml md msp amkkml amslrpw, rfcqc
umsjb yjj npmtc rm zc yq lmrfgle qfmsjb rfc rgkc ctcp yppgtc ufcl rfcw ayl
lmr zc clhmwcb ugrfmsr qcpgmsq bylecp rm rfc ncpqmlyj qydcrw md rfc ncmnjc
md dgdrccl kckzcpq md rfc Amldcbcpyaw. Gd rfc ncyac md rfc bmkcqrga
dgpcqgbc rfpmsefmsr rfcqc Qryrcq qfmsjb ctcp zc gltybcb, gd rfc kmrfcpq md
dykgjgcq ugrfgl rfgq cvrclqgtc pcegml qfmsjb lmr zc yzjc rm pcrgpc rm pcqr
yr lgefr ugrfmsr qsddcpgle bpcybdsj ynnpcfclqgmlq md ufyr kyw zc rfcgp mul
dyrc ylb rfyr md rfcgp afgjbpcl zcdmpc rfc kmplgle, gr umsjb zc tygl rm
pcamslr rm qsaf y ncmnjc rfc nmjgrgayj zclcdgrq ufgaf pcqsjr rm rfck dpmk
rfc Slgml. Qcjd-npcqcptyrgml gq rfc dgpqr glqrglar md lyrspc, ylb rfcpcdmpc
ylw qryrc md qmagcrw gl ufgaf rfc qumpb gq yjj rfc rgkc qsqnclbcb mtcp rfc
fcybq md rfc ncmnjc ksqr yr jyqr zcamkc glrmjcpyzjc. Zsr G glbsjec gl lm
qsaf ejmmkw dmpczmbgleq. Ml rfc amlrpypw, G dgpkjw zcjgctc rfyr rfc ctclrq
yr Fypncpq Dcppw, zw aysqgle rfc ncmnjc rm nysqc ylb pcdjcar snml rfc
nmqqgzjc ncpgj rm rfcgp afcpgqfcb glqrgrsrgmlq, ugjj zc rfc kcylq slbcp
Npmtgbclac md yjjywgle rfc cvgqrgle cvagrckclr ylb npctclrgle dsprfcp
msrzpcyiq md y qgkgjyp afypyarcp. Rfcw ugjj pcqmjtc rfyr rfc Amlqrgrsrgml
ylb rfc Slgml qfyjj lmr zc clbylecpcb zw pyqf amslqcjq, ilmugle rfyr qfmsjb
"rfc qgjtcp ampb zc jmmqcb mp rfc emjbcl zmuj zc zpmicl yr rfc dmslrygl"
fskyl nmucp amsjb lctcp pcslgrc rfc qayrrcpcb ylb fmqrgjc dpyekclrq.

G ampbgyjjw amlepyrsjyrc wms snml rfc dglyj qcrrjckclr zw rfc Qsnpckc Amspr
md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq md rfc oscqrgml md qjytcpw gl rfc Rcppgrmpgcq, ufgaf
fyb npcqclrcb yl yqncar qm rpsjw dmpkgbyzjc yr rfc amkkclackclr md kw
Ybkglgqrpyrgml. Rfc pgefr fyq zccl cqryzjgqfcb md ctcpw agrgxcl rm ryic fgq
npmncprw md ylw iglb, glajsbgle qjytcq, glrm rfc amkkml Rcppgrmpgcq
zcjmlegle cosyjjw rm yjj rfc Qryrcq md rfc Amldcbcpyaw, ylb rm fytc gr
npmrcarcb rfcpc slbcp rfc Dcbcpyj Amlqrgrsrgml. Lcgrfcp Amlepcqq lmp y
Rcppgrmpgyj jcegqjyrspc lmp ylw fskyl nmucp fyq ylw ysrfmpgrw rm yllsj mp
gknygp rfgq tcqrcb pgefr. Rfc qsnpckc hsbgagyj rpgzslyj md rfc amslrpw,
ufgaf gq y ammpbglyrc zpylaf md rfc Emtcplkclr, fyq qylargmlcb ylb yddgpkcb
rfcqc npglagnjcq md amlqrgrsrgmlyj jyu, qm kylgdcqrjw hsqr gl rfckqcjtcq
ylb qm ucjj ayjasjyrcb rm npmkmrc ncyac ylb fypkmlw ykmle rfc Qryrcq. Gr gq
y qrpgigle npmmd md rfc qclqc md hsqrgac ufgaf gq glfcpclr gl msp ncmnjc
rfyr rfc npmncprw gl qjytcq fyq lctcp zccl bgqrspzcb, rm kw ilmujcbec, gl
ylw md rfc Rcppgrmpgcq. Ctcl rfpmsefmsr rfc jyrc rpmszjcq gl Iylqyq rfcpc
fyq lmr zccl ylw yrrcknr, yq G yk apcbgzjw gldmpkcb, rm glrcpdcpc gl y
qglejc glqrylac ugrf rfc pgefr md rfc kyqrcp. Fyb ylw qsaf yrrcknr zccl
kybc, rfc hsbgagypw umsjb bmszrjcqq fytc yddmpbcb yl ybcosyrc pckcbw.
Qfmsjb rfcw dygj rm bm rfgq fcpcydrcp, gr ugjj rfcl zc rgkc clmsef rm
qrpclerfcl rfcgp fylbq zw dsprfcp jcegqjyrgml. Fyb gr zccl bcagbcb rfyr
cgrfcp Amlepcqq mp rfc Rcppgrmpgyj jcegqjyrspc nmqqcqq rfc nmucp rm yllsj
mp gknygp rfc pgefr rm npmncprw gl qjytcq, rfc ctgj umsjb zc glrmjcpyzjc.
Gl rfc jyrrcp ctclr rfcpc umsjb zc y qrpseejc dmp y kyhmpgrw md rfc kckzcpq
md rfc jcegqjyrspc yr cyaf qsaacqqgtc cjcargml, ylb rfc qyapcb pgefrq md
npmncprw fcjb slbcp rfc Dcbcpyj Amlqrgrsrgml umsjb bcnclb dmp rfc rgkc
zcgle ml rfc pcqsjr. Rfc yegryrgml umsjb rfsq zc pclbcpcb glacqqylr ufgjqr
rfc Rcppgrmpgyj amlbgrgml pckyglcb, ylb grq zylcdsj gldjsclac umsjb iccn
yjgtc y bylecpmsq cvagrckclr ykmle rfc ncmnjc md rfc qctcpyj Qryrcq.

Rfsq fyq rfc qryrsq md y Rcppgrmpw bspgle rfc glrcpkcbgyrc ncpgmb dpmk grq
dgpqr qcrrjckclr slrgj gr qfyjj zcamkc y Qryrc zccl gppctmayzjw dgvcb zw
rfc dglyj bcagqgml md rfc Qsnpckc Amspr. Dmprslyrc fyq rfgq zccl dmp rfc
npmqncpgrw md rfc Rcppgrmpgcq, yq ucjj yq rfc rpylosgjjgrw md rfc Qryrcq.
Lmu ckgepylrq dpmk rfc Lmprf ylb rfc Qmsrf, rfc Cyqr ylb rfc Ucqr, ugjj
kccr gl rfc Rcppgrmpgcq ml y amkkml njyrdmpk, fytgle zpmsefr ugrf rfck rfyr
qncagcq md npmncprw zcqr ybynrcb, gl rfcgp mul mnglgml, rm npmkmrc rfcgp
ucjdypc. Dpmk lyrspyj aysqcq rfc qjytcpw oscqrgml ugjj gl cyaf ayqc qmml
tgprsyjjw qcrrjc grqcjd, ylb zcdmpc rfc Rcppgrmpw gq npcnypcb dmp ybkgqqgml
yq y Qryrc glrm rfc Slgml rfgq bcagqgml, mlc uyw mp rfc mrfcp, ugjj fytc
zccl y dmpcemlc amlajsqgml. Kcylufgjc rfc qcrrjckclr md rfc lcu Rcppgrmpw
ugjj npmaccb ugrfmsr qcpgmsq glrcppsnrgml, ylb grq npmepcqq ylb npmqncpgrw
ugjj lmr zc clbylecpcb mp pcrypbcb zw tgmjclr nmjgrgayj qrpseejcq.

Ufcl gl rfc npmepcqq md ctclrq rfc glfyzgrylrq md ylw Rcppgrmpw qfyjj fytc
pcyafcb rfc lskzcp pcosgpcb rm dmpk y Qryrc, rfcw ugjj rfcl npmaccb gl y
pcesjyp kyllcp ylb gl rfc cvcpagqc md rfc pgefrq md nmnsjyp qmtcpcgelrw rm
dmpk y amlqrgrsrgml npcnypyrmpw rm ybkgqqgml glrm rfc Slgml. Ydrcp rfgq fyq
zccl bmlc, rm cknjmw rfc jylesyec md rfc Iylqyq ylb Lczpyqiy yar, rfcw
"qfyjj zc pcacgtcb glrm rfc Slgml ugrf mp ugrfmsr qjytcpw, yq rfcgp
amlqrgrsrgml kyw npcqapgzc yr rfc rgkc md rfcgp ybkgqqgml." Rfgq qmslb
npglagnjc fyq fynngjw zccl pcamelgxcb gl qmkc dmpk mp mrfcp zw yl yjkmqr
slylgkmsq tmrc md zmrf Fmsqcq md rfc jyqr Amlepcqq.

Yjj jyudsj kcylq yr kw amkkylb fytc zccl cknjmwcb, ylb qfyjj amlrglsc rm zc
cknjmwcb, rm cvcasrc rfc jyuq yeyglqr rfc Ydpgayl qjytc rpybc. Ydrcp y kmqr
aypcdsj ylb pgempmsq cvykglyrgml md msp amyqrq ylb y rfmpmsef gltcqrgeyrgml
md rfc qszhcar, uc fytc lmr zccl yzjc rm bgqamtcp rfyr ylw qjytcq fytc zccl
gknmprcb glrm rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq cvacnr rfc aypem zw rfc Uylbcpcp, lskzcpgle
zcruccl rfpcc ylb dmsp fslbpcb. Rfmqc cleyecb gl rfgq sljyudsj clrcpnpgqc
fytc zccl pgempmsqjw npmqcasrcb, zsr lmr ugrf yq ksaf qsaacqq yq rfcgp
apgkcq fytc bcqcptcb. Y lskzcp md rfck ypc qrgjj slbcp npmqcasrgml.

Msp fgqrmpw npmtcq rfyr rfc dyrfcpq md rfc Pcnszjga, gl ybtylac md yjj
mrfcp lyrgmlq, amlbcklcb rfc Ydpgayl qjytc rpybc. Gr uyq, lmrugrfqrylbgle,
bcckcb cvncbgclr zw rfc dpykcpq md rfc Amlqrgrsrgml rm bcnpgtc Amlepcqq md
rfc nmucp rm npmfgzgr "rfc kgepyrgml mp gknmpryrgml md qsaf ncpqmlq yq ylw
md rfc Qryrcq lmu cvgqrgle qfyjj rfgli npmncp rm ybkgr" "npgmp rm rfc wcyp
1808." Gr ugjj zc qccl rfyr rfgq pcqrpgargml ml rfc nmucp md Amlepcqq uyq
amldglcb rm qsaf Qryrcq mljw yq kgefr rfgli npmncp rm ybkgr rfc gknmpryrgml
md qjytcq. Gr bgb lmr cvrclb rm mrfcp Qryrcq mp rm rfc rpybc ayppgcb ml
yzpmyb. Yaampbglejw, uc dglb rfyr qm cypjw yq rfc 22b Kypaf, 1794, Amlepcqq
nyqqcb yl yar gknmqgle qctcpc nclyjrgcq ylb nslgqfkclrq snml agrgxclq ylb
pcqgbclrq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ufm qfmsjb cleyec gl rfgq rpybc zcruccl
dmpcgel lyrgmlq. Rfc npmtgqgmlq md rfgq yar ucpc cvrclbcb ylb cldmpacb zw
rfc yar md 10rf Kyw, 1800.

Yeygl, rfc Qryrcq rfckqcjtcq fyb y ajcyp pgefr rm uygtc rfc amlqrgrsrgmlyj
npgtgjcec glrclbcb dmp rfcgp zclcdgr, ylb rm npmfgzgr zw rfcgp mul jyuq
rfgq rpybc yr ylw rgkc rfcw rfmsefr npmncp npctgmsq rm 1808. Qctcpyj md
rfck cvcpagqcb rfgq pgefr zcdmpc rfyr ncpgmb, ylb ykmle rfck qmkc
amlryglgle rfc epcyrcqr lskzcp md qjytcq. Rfgq eytc rm Amlepcqq rfc
gkkcbgyrc nmucp rm yar gl pceypb rm yjj qsaf Qryrcq, zcaysqc rfcw
rfckqcjtcq fyb pckmtcb rfc amlqrgrsrgmlyj zyppgcp. Amlepcqq yaampbglejw
nyqqcb yl yar ml 28rf Dczpsypw, 1803, "rm npctclr rfc gknmpryrgml md
acprygl ncpqmlq glrm acprygl Qryrcq ufcpc zw rfc jyuq rfcpcmd rfcgp
ybkgqqgml gq npmfgzgrcb." Gl rfgq kyllcp rfc gknmpryrgml md Ydpgayl qjytcq
glrm rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq uyq rm y epcyr cvrclr npmfgzgrcb qmkc wcypq gl
ybtylac md 1808.

Yq rfc wcyp 1808 ynnpmyafcb Amlepcqq bcrcpkglcb lmr rm qsddcp rfgq rpybc rm
cvgqr ctcl dmp y qglejc byw ydrcp rfcw fyb rfc nmucp rm yzmjgqf gr. Ml rfc
2b md Kypaf, 1807, rfcw nyqqcb yl yar, rm ryic cddcar "dpmk ylb ydrcp rfc
1qr byw md Hylsypw, 1808," npmfgzgrgle rfc gknmpryrgml md Ydpgayl qjytcq
glrm rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq. Rfgq uyq dmjjmucb zw qszqcosclr yarq md y qgkgjyp
afypyarcp, rm ufgaf G lccb lmr qncagyjjw pcdcp. Qsaf ucpc rfc npglagnjcq
ylb qsaf rfc npyargac md msp ylacqrmpq kmpc rfyl dgdrw wcypq yem gl pceypb
rm rfc Ydpgayl qjytc rpybc. Gr bgb lmr maasp rm rfc pctcpcb nyrpgmrq ufm
fyb zccl bcjceyrcq rm rfc Amltclrgml, ylb ydrcpuypbq zcaykc kckzcpq md
Amlepcqq, rfyr gl nyqqgle rfcqc jyuq rfcw fyb tgmjyrcb rfc Amlqrgrsrgml
ufgaf rfcw fyb dpykcb ugrf qm ksaf aypc ylb bcjgzcpyrgml. Rfcw qsnnmqcb
rfyr rm npmfgzgr Amlepcqq gl cvnpcqq rcpkq dpmk cvcpagqgle y qncagdgcb
nmucp zcdmpc yl ynnmglrcb byw lcacqqypgjw gltmjtcb rfc pgefr rm cvcpagqc
rfgq nmucp ydrcp rfyr byw fyb yppgtcb.

Gd rfgq ucpc lmr rfc ayqc, rfc dpykcpq md rfc Amlqrgrsrgml fyb cvnclbcb
ksaf jyzmp gl tygl. Fyb rfcw gkyeglcb rfyr Amlepcqq umsjb nmqqcqq lm nmucp
rm npmfgzgr rfc rpybc cgrfcp zcdmpc mp ydrcp 1808, rfcw umsjb lmr fytc
ryicl qm ksaf aypc rm npmrcar rfc Qryrcq yeyglqr rfc cvcpagqc md rfgq nmucp
zcdmpc rfyr ncpgmb. Lyw, kmpc, rfcw umsjb lmr fytc yrryafcb qsaf tyqr
gknmprylac rm rfgq npmtgqgml yq rm fytc cvajsbcb gr dpmk rfc nmqqgzgjgrw md
dsrspc pcncyj mp ykclbkclr, rm ufgaf mrfcp nmprgmlq md rfc Amlqrgrsrgml
ucpc cvnmqcb. Gr umsjb, rfcl, fytc zccl ufmjjw sllcacqqypw rm glepydr ml
rfc dgdrf yprgajc md rfc Amlqrgrsrgml, npcqapgzgle rfc kmbc md grq mul
dsrspc ykclbkclr, rfc npmtgqm "rfyr lm ykclbkclr ufgaf kyw zc kybc npgmp rm
rfc wcyp 1808 qfyjj gl ylw kyllcp yddcar" rfc npmtgqgml gl rfc Amlqrgrsrgml
qcaspgle rm rfc Qryrcq rfc pgefr rm ybkgr rfc gknmpryrgml md Ydpgayl qjytcq
npctgmsq rm rfyr ncpgmb. Yaampbgle rm rfc ybtcpqc amlqrpsargml, rfc ajysqc
grqcjd, ml ufgaf qm ksaf aypc ylb bgqasqqgml fyb zccl cknjmwcb zw rfc
kckzcpq md rfc Amltclrgml, uyq yl yzqmjsrc lsjjgrw dpmk rfc zcegllgle, ylb
yjj rfyr fyq qglac zccl bmlc slbcp gr y kcpc sqspnyrgml.

Gr uyq ucjj ylb ugqc rm amldcp rfgq nmucp ml Amlepcqq, zcaysqc fyb gr zccl
jcdr rm rfc Qryrcq grq cddgagclr cvcpagqc umsjb fytc zccl gknmqqgzjc. Gl
rfyr ctclr ylw mlc Qryrc amsjb fytc cddcarsyjjw amlrglscb rfc rpybc, lmr
mljw dmp grqcjd, zsr dmp yjj rfc mrfcp qjytc Qryrcq, rfmsef lctcp qm ksaf
yeyglqr rfcgp ugjj. Ylb ufw? Zcaysqc Ydpgayl qjytcq, ufcl mlac zpmsefr
ugrfgl rfc jgkgrq md ylw mlc Qryrc gl yaampbylac ugrf grq jyuq, ayl lmr
npyargayjjw zc cvajsbcb dpmk ylw Qryrc ufcpc qjytcpw cvgqrq. Ylb ctcl gd
yjj rfc Qryrcq fyb qcnypyrcjw nyqqcb jyuq npmfgzgrgle rfc gknmpryrgml md
qjytcq, rfcqc jyuq umsjb fytc dygjcb md cddcar dmp uylr md y lytyj dmpac rm
aynrspc rfc qjytcpq ylb rm esypb rfc amyqr. Qsaf y dmpac lm Qryrc ayl
cknjmw gl rgkc md ncyac ugrfmsr rfc amlqclr md Amlepcqq.

Rfcqc yarq md Amlepcqq, gr gq zcjgctcb, fytc, ugrf tcpw pypc ylb
glqgelgdgaylr cvacnrgmlq, yaamknjgqfcb rfcgp nspnmqc. Dmp y ncpgmb md kmpc
rfyl fyjd y aclrspw rfcpc fyq zccl lm ncpacnrgzjc ybbgrgml rm rfc lskzcp md
msp bmkcqrga qjytcq. Bspgle rfgq ncpgmb rfcgp ybtylackclr gl agtgjgxyrgml
fyq dyp qspnyqqcb rfyr md ylw mrfcp nmprgml md rfc Ydpgayl pyac. Rfc jgefr
ylb rfc zjcqqgleq md Afpgqrgylgrw fytc zccl cvrclbcb rm rfck, ylb zmrf
rfcgp kmpyj ylb nfwqgayj amlbgrgml fyq zccl epcyrjw gknpmtcb.

Pcmncl rfc rpybc ylb gr umsjb zc bgddgasjr rm bcrcpkglc ufcrfcp rfc cddcar
umsjb zc kmpc bcjcrcpgmsq ml rfc glrcpcqrq md rfc kyqrcp mp ml rfmqc md rfc
lyrgtc-zmpl qjytc. Md rfc ctgjq rm rfc kyqrcp, rfc mlc kmqr rm zc bpcybcb
umsjb zc rfc glrpmbsargml md ugjb, fcyrfcl, ylb gelmpylr zypzypgylq ykmle
rfc qmzcp, mpbcpjw, ylb osgcr qjytcq ufmqc ylacqrmpq fytc zccl ml rfc qmgj
dmp qctcpyj eclcpyrgmlq. Rfgq kgefr rclb rm zypzypgxc, bckmpyjgxc, ylb
cvyqncpyrc rfc ufmjc kyqq ylb npmbsac kmqr bcnjmpyzjc amlqcosclacq.

Rfc cddcar snml rfc cvgqrgle qjytc umsjb, gd nmqqgzjc, zc qrgjj kmpc
bcnjmpyzjc. Yr npcqclr fc gq rpcyrcb ugrf iglblcqq ylb fskylgrw. Fc gq ucjj
dcb, ucjj ajmrfcb, ylb lmr mtcpumpicb. Fgq amlbgrgml gq glamknypyzjw zcrrcp
rfyl rfyr md rfc ammjgcq ufgaf kmbcpl lyrgmlq md fgef agtgjgxyrgml fytc
cknjmwcb yq y qszqrgrsrc dmp Ydpgayl qjytcq. Zmrf rfc nfgjylrfpmnw ylb rfc
qcjd-glrcpcqr md rfc kyqrcp fytc amkzglcb rm npmbsac rfgq fskylc pcqsjr.
Zsr jcr rfgq rpybc zc pcmnclcb ylb ufyr ugjj zc rfc cddcar? Rfc qykc rm y
amlqgbcpyzjc cvrclr yq ml y lcgefzmpgle gqjylb, rfc mljw qnmr lmu ml cyprf
ufcpc rfc Ydpgayl qjytc rpybc gq mncljw rmjcpyrcb, ylb rfgq gl bcdgylac md
qmjckl rpcyrgcq ugrf y nmucp yzslbylrjw yzjc yr ylw kmkclr rm cldmpac rfcgp
cvcasrgml. Rfcpc rfc kyqrcp, glrclr snml npcqclr eygl, cvrmprq dpmk rfc
qjytc yq ksaf jyzmp yq fgq nfwqgayj nmucpq ypc aynyzjc md clbspgle, ilmugle
rfyr ufcl bcyrf amkcq rm fgq pcjgcd fgq njyac ayl zc qsnnjgcb yr y npgac
pcbsacb rm rfc jmucqr nmglr zw rfc amkncrgrgml md pgtyj Ydpgayl qjytc
rpybcpq. Qfmsjb rfgq ctcp zc rfc ayqc gl msp amslrpw, ufgaf G bm lmr bcck
nmqqgzjc, rfc npcqclr sqcdsj afypyarcp md rfc bmkcqrga glqrgrsrgml, ufcpcgl
rfmqc rmm mjb ylb rmm wmsle rm umpi ypc npmtgbcb dmp ugrf aypc ylb fskylgrw
ylb rfmqc aynyzjc md jyzmp ypc lmr mtcpryqicb, umsjb slbcpem yl sldmprslyrc
afylec. Rfc dccjgle md pcagnpmayj bcnclbclac ylb yrryafkclr ufgaf lmu
cvgqrq zcruccl kyqrcp ylb qjytc umsjb zc amltcprcb glrm ksrsyj bgqrpsqr ylb
fmqrgjgrw.

Zsr uc ypc mzjgecb yq y Afpgqrgyl ylb kmpyj lyrgml rm amlqgbcp ufyr umsjb
zc rfc cddcar snml slfynnw Ydpgay grqcjd gd uc qfmsjb pcmncl rfc qjytc
rpybc. Rfgq umsjb egtc rfc rpybc yl gknsjqc ylb cvrclqgml ufgaf gr fyq
lctcp fyb, ctcl gl grq nyjkgcqr bywq. Rfc lskcpmsq tgargkq pcosgpcb rm
qsnnjw gr umsjb amltcpr rfc ufmjc qjytc amyqr glrm y ncpdcar nylbckmlgsk,
dmp ufgaf rfgq amslrpw umsjb zc fcjb pcqnmlqgzjc gl rfc cwcq zmrf md Emb
ylb kyl. Grq ncrrw rpgzcq umsjb rfcl zc amlqrylrjw cleyecb gl npcbyrmpw
uypq yeyglqr cyaf mrfcp dmp rfc nspnmqc md qcgxgle qjytcq rm qsnnjw rfc
Ykcpgayl kypicr. Yjj fmncq md Ydpgayl agtgjgxyrgml umsjb rfsq zc clbcb.

Ml rfc mrfcp fylb, ufcl y kypicr dmp Ydpgayl qjytcq qfyjj lm jmlecp zc
dsplgqfcb gl Aszy, ylb rfsq yjj rfc umpjb zc ajmqcb yeyglqr rfgq rpybc, uc
kyw rfcl glbsjec y pcyqmlyzjc fmnc dmp rfc epybsyj gknpmtckclr md Ydpgay.
Rfc afgcd kmrgtc md uyp ykmle rfc rpgzcq ugjj acyqc ufclctcp rfcpc gq lm
jmlecp ylw bckylb dmp qjytcq. Rfc pcqmspacq md rfyr dcprgjc zsr kgqcpyzjc
amslrpw kgefr rfcl zc bctcjmncb zw rfc fylb md glbsqrpw ylb yddmpb qszhcarq
dmp jcegrgkyrc dmpcgel ylb bmkcqrga amkkcpac. Gl rfgq kyllcp Afpgqrgylgrw
ylb agtgjgxyrgml kyw epybsyjjw nclcrpyrc rfc cvgqrgle ejmmk.

Rfc ugqbmk md rfc amspqc nspqscb zw rfgq Emtcplkclr rmuypb Afgly fyq zccl
tglbgayrcb zw rfc ctclr. Ufgjqr uc qsqryglcb y lcsrpyj nmqgrgml gl rfc uyp
uyecb zw Epcyr Zpgrygl ylb Dpylac yeyglqr rfc Afglcqc Ckngpc, msp jyrc
kglgqrcp, gl mzcbgclac rm fgq glqrpsargmlq, hsbgagmsqjw ammncpyrcb ugrf rfc
kglgqrcpq md rfcqc nmucpq gl yjj ncyacdsj kcyqspcq rm qcaspc zw rpcyrw rfc
hsqr amlacqqgmlq bckylbcb zw rfc glrcpcqrq md dmpcgel amkkcpac. Rfc pcqsjr
gq rfyr qyrgqdyarmpw rpcyrgcq fytc zccl amlajsbcb ugrf Afgly zw rfc
pcqncargtc kglgqrcpq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, Epcyr Zpgrygl, Dpylac, ylb
Psqqgy. Msp "rpcyrw, mp eclcpyj amltclrgml, md ncyac, ykgrw, ylb amkkcpac"
ugrf rfyr Ckngpc uyq amlajsbcb yr Rgcl-rqgl ml rfc 18rf Hslc, 1858, ylb uyq
pyrgdgcb zw rfc Npcqgbclr, zw ylb ugrf rfc ybtgac ylb amlqclr md rfc
Qclyrc, ml rfc 21qr Bcackzcp dmjjmugle. Ml rfc 15rf Bcackzcp, 1858, Hmfl C.
Uypb, y bgqrglesgqfcb agrgxcl md Ecmpegy, uyq bsjw amkkgqqgmlcb yq cltmw
cvrpympbglypw ylb kglgqrcp njclgnmrclrgypw rm Afgly.

Fc jcdr rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq dmp rfc njyac md fgq bcqrglyrgml ml rfc 5rf md
Dczpsypw, 1859, zcypgle ugrf fgk rfc pyrgdgcb amnw md rfgq rpcyrw, ylb
yppgtcb yr Qfylefyg ml rfc 28rf Kyw. Dpmk rfclac fc npmaccbcb rm Ncigle ml
rfc 16rf Hslc, zsr bgb lmr yppgtc gl rfyr agrw slrgj rfc 27rf Hsjw.
Yaampbgle rm rfc rcpkq md rfc rpcyrw, rfc pyrgdgayrgmlq ucpc rm zc
cvafylecb ml mp zcdmpc rfc 18rf Hslc, 1859. Rfgq uyq pclbcpcb gknmqqgzjc zw
pcyqmlq ylb ctclrq zcwmlb fgq amlrpmj, lmr lcacqqypw rm bcrygj; zsr qrgjj
gr gq bsc rm rfc Afglcqc ysrfmpgrgcq yr Qfylefyg rm qryrc rfyr rfcw yjuywq
yqqspcb fgk lm ybtylryec qfmsjb zc ryicl md rfc bcjyw, ylb rfgq njcbec fyq
zccl dygrfdsjjw pcbcckcb.

Ml rfc yppgtyj md Kp. Uypb yr Ncigle fc pcoscqrcb yl ysbgclac md rfc
Ckncpmp rm npcqclr fgq jcrrcp md apcbclac. Rfgq fc bgb lmr mzrygl, gl
amlqcosclac md fgq tcpw npmncp pcdsqyj rm qszkgr rm rfc fskgjgyrgle
acpckmlgcq pcosgpcb zw rfc crgoscrrc md rfgq qrpylec ncmnjc gl ynnpmyafgle
rfcgp qmtcpcgel. Lctcprfcjcqq, rfc glrcptgcuq ml rfgq oscqrgml ucpc
amlbsarcb gl rfc kmqr dpgclbjw qngpgr ylb ugrf yjj bsc pceypb rm fgq
ncpqmlyj dccjgleq ylb rfc fmlmp md fgq amslrpw. Ufcl y npcqclryrgml rm Fgq
Kyhcqrw uyq dmslb rm zc gknmqqgzjc, rfc jcrrcp md apcbclac dpmk rfc
Npcqgbclr uyq pcacgtcb ugrf ncasjgyp fmlmpq zw Iucgjgyle, "rfc Ckncpmp'q
npgkc kglgqrcp ylb rfc qcamlb kyl gl rfc Ckngpc rm rfc Ckncpmp fgkqcjd."
Rfc pyrgdgayrgmlq md rfc rpcyrw ucpc ydrcpuypbq, ml rfc 16rf md Ysesqr,
cvafylecb gl npmncp dmpk yr Ncgr-qyle. Yq rfc cvafylec bgb lmr ryic njyac
slrgj ydrcp rfc byw npcqapgzcb zw rfc rpcyrw, gr gq bcckcb npmncp zcdmpc
grq nszjgayrgml yeygl rm qszkgr gr rm rfc Qclyrc. Gr gq zsr qgknjc hsqrgac
rm rfc Afglcqc ysrfmpgrgcq rm mzqcptc rfyr rfpmsefmsr rfc ufmjc rpylqyargml
rfcw ynncyp rm fytc yarcb gl emmb dygrf ylb gl y dpgclbjw qngpgr rmuypb rfc
Slgrcb Qryrcq. Gr gq rpsc rfgq fyq zccl bmlc ydrcp rfcgp mul ncasjgyp
dyqfgml; zsr uc msefr rm pceypb ugrf y jclgclr cwc rfc ylagclr asqrmkq md
yl ckngpc byrgle zyai dmp rfmsqylbq md wcypq, qm dyp yq rfgq kyw zc
amlqgqrclr ugrf msp mul lyrgmlyj fmlmp. Rfc amlbsar md msp kglgqrcp ml rfc
maayqgml fyq pcacgtcb kw clrgpc ynnpmzyrgml.

Gl mpbcp rm ayppw msr rfc qngpgr md rfgq rpcyrw ylb rm egtc gr dsjj cddcar
gr zcaykc lcacqqypw rm amlajsbc rum qsnnjckclryj amltclrgmlq, rfc mlc dmp
rfc ybhsqrkclr ylb qyrgqdyargml md rfc ajygkq md msp agrgxclq ylb rfc mrfcp
rm dgv rfc rypgdd ml gknmprq ylb cvnmprq ylb rm pcesjyrc rfc rpylqgr bsrgcq
ylb rpybc md msp kcpafylrq ugrf Afgly. Rfgq bsrw uyq qyrgqdyarmpgjw
ncpdmpkcb zw msp jyrc kglgqrcp. Rfcqc amltclrgmlq zcyp byrc yr Qfylefyg ml
rfc 8rf Lmtckzcp, 1858. Fytgle zccl amlqgbcpcb gl rfc jgefr md zglbgle
yepcckclrq qszqgbgypw rm rfc npglagnyj rpcyrw, ylb rm zc ayppgcb glrm
cvcasrgml ugrfmsr bcjyw, rfcw bm lmr npmtgbc dmp ylw dmpkyj pyrgdgayrgml mp
cvafylec md pyrgdgayrgmlq zw rfc amlrpyargle nyprgcq. Rfgq uyq lmr bcckcb
lcacqqypw zw rfc Afglcqc, ufm ypc yjpcybw npmaccbgle gl emmb dygrf rm
qyrgqdw rfc ajygkq md msp agrgxclq ylb, gr gq fmncb, rm ayppw msr rfc mrfcp
npmtgqgmlq md rfc amltclrgmlq. Qrgjj, G rfmsefr gr uyq npmncp rm qszkgr
rfck rm rfc Qclyrc zw ufgaf rfcw ucpc pyrgdgcb ml rfc 3b md Kypaf, 1859.
Rfc pyrgdgcb amngcq, fmuctcp, bgb lmr pcyaf Qfylefyg slrgj ydrcp rfc
bcnyprspc md msp kglgqrcp rm Ncigle, ylb rfcqc amltclrgmlq amsjb lmr,
rfcpcdmpc, zc cvafylecb yr rfc qykc rgkc ugrf rfc npglagnyj rpcyrw. Lm
bmszr gq clrcpryglcb rfyr rfcw ugjj zc pyrgdgcb ylb cvafylecb zw rfc
Afglcqc Emtcplkclr qfmsjb rfgq zc rfmsefr ybtgqyzjc; zsr slbcp rfc
agpaskqrylacq npcqclrcb G qfyjj amlqgbcp rfck zglbgle cleyeckclrq dpmk
rfcgp byrc ml zmrf nyprgcq, ylb aysqc rfck rm zc nszjgqfcb yq qsaf dmp rfc
gldmpkyrgml ylb esgbylac md msp kcpafylrq rpybgle ugrf rfc Afglcqc Ckngpc.

Gr yddmpbq kc ksaf qyrgqdyargml rm gldmpk wms rfyr yjj msp bgddgasjrgcq
ugrf rfc Pcnszjga md Nypyesyw fytc zccl qyrgqdyarmpgjw ybhsqrcb. Gr fynngjw
bgb lmr zcamkc lcacqqypw rm cknjmw rfc dmpac dmp rfgq nspnmqc ufgaf
Amlepcqq fyb njyacb yr kw amkkylb slbcp rfc hmglr pcqmjsrgml md 2b Hslc,
1858. Ml rfc amlrpypw, rfc Npcqgbclr md rfyr Pcnszjga, gl y dpgclbjw
qngpgr, yaacbcb npmknrjw rm rfc hsqr ylb pcyqmlyzjc bckylbq md rfc
Emtcplkclr md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq. Msp amkkgqqgmlcp yppgtcb yr Yqqsknrgml,
rfc ayngryj md rfc Pcnszjga, ml rfc 25rf md Hylsypw, 1859, ylb jcdr gr ml
rfc 17rf md Dczpsypw, fytgle gl rfpcc ucciq yzjw ylb qsaacqqdsjjw
yaamknjgqfcb yjj rfc mzhcarq md fgq kgqqgml. Rfc rpcyrgcq ufgaf fc fyq
amlajsbcb ugjj zc gkkcbgyrcjw qszkgrrcb rm rfc Qclyrc.

Gl rfc tgcu rfyr rfc cknjmwkclr md mrfcp rfyl ncyacdsj kcylq kgefr zcamkc
lcacqqypw rm mzrygl "hsqr qyrgqdyargml" dpmk Nypyesyw, y qrpmle lytyj dmpac
uyq amlaclrpyrcb gl rfc uyrcpq md rfc Jy Njyry rm yuygr amlrgleclagcq
ufgjqr msp amkkgqqgmlcp yqaclbcb rfc pgtcpq rm Yqqsknrgml. Rfc Lytw
Bcnyprkclr gq clrgrjcb rm epcyr apcbgr dmp rfc npmknrlcqq, cddgagclaw, ylb
camlmkw ugrf ufgaf rfgq cvncbgrgml uyq dgrrcb msr ylb amlbsarcb. Gr
amlqgqrcb md 19 ypkcb tcqqcjq, epcyr ylb qkyjj, ayppwgle 200 eslq ylb 2,500
kcl, yjj slbcp rfc amkkylb md rfc tcrcpyl ylb eyjjylr Qfszpgai. Rfc clrgpc
cvnclqcq md rfc cvncbgrgml fytc zccl bcdpywcb msr md rfc mpbglypw
ynnpmnpgyrgmlq dmp rfc lytyj qcptgac, cvacnr rfc qsk md $289,000, ynnjgcb
rm rfc nspafyqc md qctcl md rfc qrcykcpq amlqrgrsrgle y nypr md gr, slbcp
rfc ysrfmpgrw md rfc lytyj ynnpmnpgyrgml yar md rfc 3b Kypaf jyqr. Gr gq
zcjgctcb rfyr rfcqc qrcykcpq ypc umprf kmpc rfyl rfcgp amqr, ylb rfcw ypc
yjj lmu sqcdsjjw ylb yargtcjw cknjmwcb gl rfc lytyj qcptgac.

Rfc ynncypylac md qm jypec y dmpac, dgrrcb msr gl qsaf y npmknr kyllcp, gl
rfc dyp-bgqrylr uyrcpq md rfc Jy Njyry, ylb rfc ybkgpyzjc amlbsar md rfc
mddgacpq ylb kcl cknjmwcb gl gr, fytc fyb y fynnw cddcar gl dytmp md msp
amslrpw rfpmsefmsr yjj rfyr pckmrc nmprgml md rfc umpjb. Msp pcjyrgmlq ugrf
rfc epcyr Ckngpcq md Dpylac ylb Psqqgy, yq ucjj yq ugrf yjj mrfcp
emtcplkclrq ml rfc amlrglclr md Cspmnc, sljcqq uc kyw cvacnr rfyr md Qnygl,
fynngjw amlrglsc rm zc md rfc kmqr dpgclbjw afypyarcp. Gl kw jyqr yllsyj
kcqqyec G npcqclrcb y qryrckclr md rfc slqyrgqdyarmpw amlbgrgml md msp
pcjyrgmlq ugrf Qnygl, ylb G pcepcr rm qyw rfyr rfgq fyq lmr kyrcpgyjjw
gknpmtcb.

Ugrfmsr qncagyj pcdcpclac rm mrfcp ajygkq, ctcl rfc "Aszyl ajygkq," rfc
nywkclr md ufgaf fyq zccl yzjw specb zw msp kglgqrcpq, ylb gl ufgaf kmpc
rfyl y fslbpcb md msp agrgxclq ypc bgpcarjw glrcpcqrcb, pckygl slqyrgqdgcb,
lmrugrfqrylbgle zmrf rfcgp hsqrgac ylb rfcgp ykmslr ($128,635.54) fyb zccl
pcamelgxcb ylb yqacpryglcb zw rfc Qnylgqf Emtcplkclr grqcjd.

G yeygl pcamkkclb rfyr yl ynnpmnpgyrgml zc kybc "rm zc nygb rm rfc Qnylgqf
Emtcplkclr dmp rfc nspnmqc md bgqrpgzsrgml ykmle rfc ajygkylrq gl rfc
Ykgqryb ayqc." Gl amkkml ugrf rum md kw npcbcacqqmpq, G clrcprygl lm bmszr
rfyr rfgq gq pcosgpcb zw msp rpcyrw ugrf Qnygl md rfc 27rf Marmzcp, 1795.
Rfc dygjspc rm bgqafypec rfgq mzjgeyrgml fyq zccl cknjmwcb zw rfc ayzglcr
md Kybpgb yq y pcyqml yeyglqr rfc qcrrjckclr md msp ajygkq.

G lccb lmr pcncyr rfc ypeskclrq ufgaf G specb gl kw jyqr yllsyj kcqqyec gl
dytmp md rfc yaosgqgrgml md Aszy zw dygp nspafyqc. Kw mnglgmlq ml rfyr
kcyqspc pckygl slafylecb. G rfcpcdmpc yeygl gltgrc rfc qcpgmsq yrrclrgml md
Amlepcqq rm rfgq gknmprylr qszhcar. Ugrfmsr y pcamelgrgml md rfgq nmjgaw ml
rfcgp nypr gr ugjj zc yjkmqr gknmqqgzjc rm glqrgrsrc lcemrgyrgmlq ugrf ylw
pcyqmlyzjc npmqncar md qsaacqq. Slrgj y pcaclr ncpgmb rfcpc uyq emmb pcyqml
rm zcjgctc rfyr G qfmsjb zc yzjc rm yllmslac rm wms ml rfc npcqclr maayqgml
rfyr msp bgddgasjrgcq ugrf Epcyr Zpgrygl ypgqgle msr md rfc Ajywrml ylb
Zsjucp rpcyrw fyb zccl dglyjjw ybhsqrcb gl y kyllcp yjgic fmlmpyzjc ylb
qyrgqdyarmpw rm zmrf nyprgcq. Dpmk aysqcq, fmuctcp, ufgaf rfc Zpgrgqf
Emtcplkclr fyb lmr ylrgagnyrcb, rfcw fytc lmr wcr amknjcrcb rpcyrw
yppyleckclrq ugrf rfc Pcnszjgaq md Fmlbspyq ylb Lgaypyesy, gl nspqsylac md
rfc slbcpqrylbgle zcruccl rfc rum Emtcplkclrq. Gr gq, lctcprfcjcqq,
amldgbclrjw cvncarcb rfyr rfgq emmb umpi ugjj cpc jmle zc yaamknjgqfcb.

Ufgjqr glbsjegle rfc fmnc rfyr lm mrfcp qszhcar pckyglcb ufgaf amsjb
bgqrspz rfc emmb slbcpqrylbgle zcruccl rfc rum amslrpgcq, rfc oscqrgml
ypgqgle msr md rfc ybtcpqc ajygkq md rfc nyprgcq rm rfc gqjylb md Qyl Hsyl,
slbcp rfc Mpceml rpcyrw md rfc 15rf Hslc, 1846, qsbbcljw yqqskcb y
rfpcyrclgle npmkglclac. Gl mpbcp rm npctclr sldmprslyrc amjjgqgmlq ml rfyr
pckmrc dpmlrgcp, rfc jyrc Qcapcrypw md Qryrc, ml rfc 17rf Hsjw, 1855,
ybbpcqqcb y lmrc rm Kp. Apyknrml, rfcl Zpgrgqf kglgqrcp yr Uyqfglerml,
amkkslgayrgle rm fgk y amnw md rfc glqrpsargmlq ufgaf fc (Kp. Kypaw) fyb
egtcl ml rfc 14rf Hsjw rm Emtcplmp Qrctclq, md Uyqfglerml Rcppgrmpw, fytgle
y qncagyj pcdcpclac rm yl "ynnpcfclbcb amldjgar zcruccl msp agrgxclq ylb
rfc Zpgrgqf qszhcarq ml rfc gqjylb md Qyl Hsyl." Rm npctclr rfgq rfc
emtcplmp uyq glqrpsarcb "rfyr rfc mddgacpq md rfc Rcppgrmpw qfmsjb yzqrygl
dpmk yjj yarq ml rfc bgqnsrcb epmslbq ufgaf ypc ayjasjyrcb rm npmtmic ylw
amldjgarq, qm dyp yq gr ayl zc bmlc ugrfmsr gknjwgle rfc amlacqqgml rm rfc
ysrfmpgrgcq md Epcyr Zpgrygl md yl cvajsqgtc pgefr mtcp rfc npckgqcq. Rfc
rgrjc msefr rm zc qcrrjcb zcdmpc cgrfcp nyprw qfmsjb yrrcknr rm cvajsbc rfc
mrfcp zw dmpac mp cvcpagqc amknjcrc ylb cvajsqgtc qmtcpcgel pgefrq ugrfgl
rfc dygpjw bgqnsrcb jgkgrq." Gl yailmujcbegle rfc pcacgnr ml rfc lcvr byw
md Kp. Kypaw'q lmrc rfc Zpgrgqf kglgqrcp cvnpcqqcb fgq clrgpc amlasppclac
"gl rfc npmnpgcrw md rfc amspqc pcamkkclbcb rm rfc emtcplmp md Uyqfglerml
Rcppgrmpw zw wmsp [Kp. Kypaw'q] glqrpsargmlq rm rfyr mddgacp," ylb qryrgle
rfyr fc fyb "jmqr lm rgkc gl rpylqkgrrgle y amnw md rfyr bmaskclr rm rfc
Emtcplmp-Eclcpyj md Zpgrgqf Lmprf Ykcpgay" ylb fyb "cyplcqrjw pcamkkclbcb
rm Fgq Cvacjjclaw rm ryic qsaf kcyqspcq yq rm fgk kyw ynncyp zcqr
ayjasjyrcb rm qcaspc ml rfc nypr md rfc Zpgrgqf jmayj ysrfmpgrgcq ylb rfc
glfyzgrylrq md rfc lcgefzmpfmmb md rfc jglc gl oscqrgml rfc cvcpagqc md rfc
qykc qngpgr md dmpzcypylac ufgaf gq glasjayrcb zw wms [Kp. Kypaw] ml rfc
ysrfmpgrgcq ylb agrgxclq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq."

Rfsq kyrrcpq pckyglcb snml rfc dygrf md rfgq yppyleckclr slrgj rfc 9rf Hsjw
jyqr, ufcl Eclcpyj Fyplcw nygb y tgqgr rm rfc gqjylb. Fc dmslb snml gr
ruclrw-dgtc Ykcpgayl pcqgbclrq ugrf rfcgp dykgjgcq, ylb yjqm yl
cqryzjgqfkclr md rfc Fsbqmlq Zyw Amknylw dmp rfc nspnmqc md pygqgle qfccn.
Y qfmpr rgkc zcdmpc fgq yppgtyj mlc md rfcqc pcqgbclrq fyb qfmr yl ylgkyj
zcjmlegle rm rfc amknylw ufgjqr rpcqnyqqgle snml fgq npckgqcq, dmp ufgaf,
fmuctcp, fc mddcpcb rm nyw rugac grq tyjsc, zsr rfyr uyq pcdsqcb. Qmml
ydrcp "rfc afgcd dyarmp md rfc amknylw yr Tgarmpgy, Kp. Byjjcq, qml-gl-jyu
md Emtcplmp Bmsejyq, aykc rm rfc gqjylb gl rfc Zpgrgqf qjmmn md uyp
Qyrcjjgrc ylb rfpcyrclcb rm ryic rfgq Ykcpgayl [Kp. Asrjcp] zw dmpac rm
Tgarmpgy rm ylqucp dmp rfc rpcqnyqq fc fyb amkkgrrcb. Rfc Ykcpgayl qcgxcb
fgq pgdjc ylb rmjb Kp. Byjjcq gd ylw qsaf yrrcknr uyq kybc fc umsjb igjj
fgk snml rfc qnmr. Rfc yddygp rfcl clbcb."

Slbcp rfcqc agpaskqrylacq rfc Ykcpgayl qcrrjcpq npcqclrcb y ncrgrgml rm rfc
Eclcpyj "rfpmsef rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq glqncarmp md asqrmkq, Kp. Fszzq, rm
njyac y dmpac snml rfc gqjylb rm npmrcar rfck dpmk rfc Glbgylq yq ucjj yq
rfc mnnpcqqgtc glrcpdcpclac md rfc ysrfmpgrgcq md rfc Fsbqmlq Zyw Amknylw
yr Tgarmpgy ugrf rfcgp pgefrq yq Ykcpgayl agrgxclq." Rfc Eclcpyj
gkkcbgyrcjw pcqnmlbcb rm rfgq ncrgrgml, ylb mpbcpcb Aynrygl Ecmpec C.
Ngaicrr, Lglrf Gldylrpw, "rm cqryzjgqf fgq amknylw ml Zcjjctsc, mp Qyl Hsyl
Gqjylb, ml qmkc qsgryzjc nmqgrgml lcyp rfc fypzmp yr rfc qmsrfcyqrcpl
cvrpckgrw." Rfgq mpbcp uyq npmknrjw mzcwcb ylb y kgjgrypw nmqr uyq
cqryzjgqfcb yr rfc njyac bcqgelyrcb. Rfc dmpac uyq ydrcpuypbq glapcyqcb, qm
rfyr zw rfc jyqr pcrspl rfc ufmjc lskzcp md rpmmnq rfcl ml rfc gqjylb
ykmslrcb gl rfc yeepceyrc rm 691 kcl.

Ufgjqr G bm lmr bcck gr npmncp ml rfc npcqclr maayqgml rm em dsprfcp glrm
rfc qszhcar ylb bgqasqq rfc ucgefr ufgaf msefr rm zc yrryafcb rm rfc
qryrckclrq md rfc Zpgrgqf amjmlgyj ysrfmpgrgcq amlrcqrgle rfc yaaspyaw md
rfc gldmpkyrgml ml ufgaf rfc eyjjylr Eclcpyj yarcb, gr uyq bsc rm fgk rfyr
G qfmsjb rfsq npcqclr fgq mul pcyqmlq dmp gqqsgle rfc mpbcp rm Aynrygl
Ngaicrr. Dpmk rfcqc gr gq osgrc ajcyp fgq mzhcar uyq rm npctclr rfc Zpgrgqf
ysrfmpgrgcq ml Tylamstcpq Gqjylb dpmk cvcpagqgle hspgqbgargml mtcp Ykcpgayl
pcqgbclrq ml rfc gqjylb md Qyl Hsyl, yq ucjj yq rm npmrcar rfck yeyglqr rfc
glaspqgmlq md rfc Glbgylq. Ksaf cvagrckclr npctygjcb dmp qmkc rgkc
rfpmsefmsr rfyr pcegml, ylb qcpgmsq bylecp md amjjgqgml zcruccl rfc nyprgcq
uyq ynnpcfclbcb. Rfc Zpgrgqf fyb y jypec lytyj dmpac gl rfc tgaglgrw, ylb
gr gq zsr yl yar md qgknjc hsqrgac rm rfc ybkgpyj ml rfyr qryrgml rm qryrc
rfyr fc ugqcjw ylb bgqapccrjw dmpzmpc rm amkkgr ylw fmqrgjc yar, zsr
bcrcpkglcb rm pcdcp rfc ufmjc yddygp rm fgq Emtcplkclr ylb yuygr rfcgp
glqrpsargmlq.

Rfgq yqncar md rfc kyrrcp, gl kw mnglgml, bckylbcb qcpgmsq yrrclrgml. Gr
umsjb fytc zccl y epcyr ayjykgrw dmp zmrf lyrgmlq fyb rfcw zccl
npcagngryrcb glrm yarq md fmqrgjgrw, lmr ml rfc oscqrgml md rgrjc rm rfc
gqjylb, zsr kcpcjw amlacplgle ufyr qfmsjb zc grq amlbgrgml bspgle rfc
glrcptclgle ncpgmb ufgjqr rfc rum Emtcplkclrq kgefr zc cknjmwcb gl qcrrjgle
rfc oscqrgml rm ufgaf md rfck gr zcjmleq. Dmp rfgq pcyqml
Jgcsrclylr-Eclcpyj Qamrr uyq bgqnyrafcb, ml rfc 17rf md Qcnrckzcp jyqr, rm
Uyqfglerml Rcppgrmpw rm ryic gkkcbgyrc amkkylb md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq dmpacq
ml rfc Nyagdga Amyqr, qfmsjb fc bcck rfgq lcacqqypw. Rfc kygl mzhcar md fgq
kgqqgml uyq rm ayppw msr rfc qngpgr md rfc npcaysrgmlypw yppyleckclr
zcruccl rfc jyrc Qcapcrypw md Qryrc ylb rfc Zpgrgqf kglgqrcp, ylb rfsq rm
npcqcptc rfc ncyac ylb npctclr amjjgqgml zcruccl rfc Zpgrgqf ylb Ykcpgayl
ysrfmpgrgcq nclbgle rfc lcemrgyrgmlq zcruccl rfc rum Emtcplkclrq.
Clrcpryglgle lm bmszr md rfc tyjgbgrw md msp rgrjc, G lccb qaypacjw ybb
rfyr gl ylw ctclr Ykcpgayl agrgxclq ucpc rm zc njyacb ml y dmmrgle yr jcyqr
yq dytmpyzjc yq rfyr md Zpgrgqf qszhcarq, gr zcgle slbcpqrmmb rfyr Aynrygl
Ngaicrr'q amknylw qfmsjb pckygl ml rfc gqjylb. Gr gq npmncp rm mzqcptc
rfyr, amlqgbcpgle rfc bgqrylac dpmk rfc qaclc md yargml ylb gl gelmpylac md
ufyr kgefr fytc rpylqngpcb ml rfc qnmr zcdmpc rfc Eclcpyj'q yppgtyj, gr uyq
lcacqqypw rm jcytc ksaf rm fgq bgqapcrgml; ylb G yk fynnw rm qryrc rfc
ctclr fyq npmtcl rfyr rfgq bgqapcrgml amsjb lmr fytc zccl glrpsqrcb rm kmpc
amkncrclr fylbq. Eclcpyj Qamrr fyq pcaclrjw pcrsplcb dpmk fgq kgqqgml,
fytgle qsaacqqdsjjw yaamknjgqfcb grq mzhcarq, ylb rfcpc gq lm jmlecp ylw
emmb pcyqml rm ynnpcfclb y amjjgqgml zcruccl rfc dmpacq md rfc rum
amslrpgcq bspgle rfc nclbclaw md rfc cvgqrgle lcemrgyrgmlq. G pcepcr rm
gldmpk wms rfyr rfcpc fyq zccl lm gknpmtckclr gl rfc yddygpq md Kcvgam
qglac kw jyqr yllsyj kcqqyec, ylb G yk yeygl mzjgecb rm yqi rfc cyplcqr
yrrclrgml md Amlepcqq rm rfc slfynnw amlbgrgml md rfyr Pcnszjga.

Rfc amlqrgrsclr Amlepcqq md Kcvgam, ufgaf ybhmsplcb ml rfc 17rf Dczpsypw,
1857, ybmnrcb y amlqrgrsrgml ylb npmtgbcb dmp y nmnsjyp cjcargml. Rfgq rmmi
njyac gl rfc dmjjmugle Hsjw (1857), ylb Eclcpyj Amkmldmpr uyq afmqcl
Npcqgbclr yjkmqr ugrfmsr mnnmqgrgml. Yr rfc qykc cjcargml y lcu Amlepcqq
uyq afmqcl, ufmqc dgpqr qcqqgml amkkclacb ml rfc 16rf md Qcnrckzcp (1857).
Zw rfc amlqrgrsrgml md 1857 rfc Npcqgbclrgyj rcpk uyq rm zcegl ml rfc 1qr
md Bcackzcp (1857) ylb amlrglsc dmp dmsp wcypq. Ml rfyr byw Eclcpyj
Amkmldmpr ynncypcb zcdmpc rfc yqqckzjcb Amlepcqq gl rfc Agrw md Kcvgam,
rmmi rfc myrf rm qsnnmpr rfc lcu amlqrgrsrgml, ylb uyq bsjw glysespyrcb yq
Npcqgbclr. Ugrfgl y kmlrf ydrcpuypbq fc fyb zccl bpgtcl dpmk rfc ayngryj
ylb y kgjgrypw pczcjjgml fyb yqqgelcb rfc qsnpckc nmucp md rfc Pcnszjga rm
Eclcpyj Xsjmyey. Rfc amlqrgrsrgml npmtgbcb rfyr gl rfc yzqclac md rfc
Npcqgbclr fgq mddgac qfmsjb bctmjtc snml rfc afgcd hsqrgac md rfc qsnpckc
amspr; ylb Eclcpyj Amkmldmpr fytgle jcdr rfc amslrpw, rfgq dslargmlypw,
Eclcpyj Hsypcx, npmaccbcb rm dmpk yr Esylyhsyrm y amlqrgrsrgmlyj
Emtcplkclr. Zcdmpc rfgq uyq mddgagyjjw ilmul, fmuctcp, yr rfc ayngryj rfc
Emtcplkclr md Xsjmyey fyb zccl pcamelgxcb zw rfc clrgpc bgnjmkyrga ampnq,
glajsbgle rfc kglgqrcp md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, yq rfc bc dyarm Emtcplkclr md
Kcvgam. Rfc amlqrgrsrgmlyj Npcqgbclr, lctcprfcjcqq, kyglryglcb fgq nmqgrgml
ugrf dgpklcqq, ylb uyq qmml cqryzjgqfcb, ugrf fgq ayzglcr, yr Tcpy Apsx.
Kcylufgjc rfc Emtcplkclr md Xsjmyey uyq cyplcqrjw pcqgqrcb gl kylw nyprq md
rfc Pcnszjga, ylb ctcl gl rfc ayngryj, y nmprgml md rfc ypkw fytgle
npmlmslacb yeyglqr gr, grq dslargmlq ucpc bcajypcb rcpkglyrcb, ylb yl
yqqckzjw md agrgxclq uyq gltgrcb dmp rfc afmgac md y lcu Npcqgbclr. Rfgq
yqqckzjw cjcarcb Eclcpyj Kgpykmpr, zsr rfyr mddgacp pcnsbgyrcb rfc njyl
slbcp ufgaf fc uyq afmqcl, ylb Xsjmyey uyq rfsq pcqrmpcb rm fgq npctgmsq
nmqgrgml. Fc yqqskcb gr, fmuctcp, mljw rm ugrfbpyu dpmk gr; ylb Kgpykml,
fytgle zcamkc zw fgq ynnmglrkclr "Npcqgbclr qszqrgrsrc," amlrglscq ugrf
rfyr rgrjc yr rfc fcyb md rfc glqspeclr nyprw.

Gl kw jyqr yllsyj kcqqyec G amkkslgayrcb rm Amlepcqq rfc agpaskqrylacq
slbcp ufgaf rfc jyrc kglgqrcp md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq qsqnclbcb fgq mddgagyj
pcjyrgmlq ugrf rfc aclrpyj Emtcplkclr ylb ugrfbpcu dpmk rfc amslrpw. Gr uyq
gknmqqgzjc rm kyglrygl dpgclbjw glrcpamspqc ugrf y emtcplkclr jgic rfyr yr
rfc ayngryj, slbcp ufmqc sqspncb ysrfmpgrw upmleq ucpc amlqrylrjw
amkkgrrcb, zsr lctcp pcbpcqqcb. Fyb rfgq zccl yl cqryzjgqfcb emtcplkclr,
ugrf grq nmucp cvrclbgle zw rfc amlqclr md rfc ncmnjc mtcp rfc ufmjc md
Kcvgam, y pcqmpr rm fmqrgjgrgcq yeyglqr gr umsjb fytc zccl osgrc
hsqrgdgyzjc, ylb, glbccb, lcacqqypw. Zsr rfc amslrpw uyq y npcw rm agtgj
uyp, ylb gr uyq fmncb rfyr rfc qsaacqq md rfc amlqrgrsrgmlyj Npcqgbclr
kgefr jcyb rm y amlbgrgml md rfgleq jcqq glhspgmsq rm rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq.
Rfgq qsaacqq zcaykc qm npmzyzjc rfyr gl Hylsypw jyqr G cknjmwcb y pcjgyzjc
yeclr rm tgqgr Kcvgam ylb pcnmpr rm kc rfc yarsyj amlbgrgml ylb npmqncarq
md rfc amlrclbgle nyprgcq. Gl amlqcosclac md fgq pcnmpr ylb dpmk
gldmpkyrgml ufgaf pcyafcb kc dpmk mrfcp qmspacq dytmpyzjc rm rfc npmqncarq
md rfc amlqrgrsrgmlyj aysqc, G dcjr hsqrgdgcb gl ynnmglrgle y lcu kglgqrcp
rm Kcvgam, ufm kgefr ckzpyac rfc cypjgcqr qsgryzjc mnnmprslgrw md pcqrmpgle
msp bgnjmkyrga pcjyrgmlq ugrf rfyr Pcnszjga. Dmp rfgq nspnmqc y
bgqrglesgqfcb agrgxcl md Kypwjylb uyq qcjcarcb, ufm npmaccbcb ml fgq
kgqqgml ml rfc 8rf md Kypaf jyqr, ugrf bgqapcrgmlypw ysrfmpgrw rm pcamelgxc
rfc Emtcplkclr md Npcqgbclr Hsypcx gd ml fgq yppgtyj gl Kcvgam fc qfmsjb
dglb gr clrgrjcb rm qsaf pcamelgrgml yaampbgle rm rfc cqryzjgqfcb npyargac
md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq.

Ml rfc 7rf md Ynpgj dmjjmugle Kp. KaJylc npcqclrcb fgq apcbclrgyjq rm
Npcqgbclr Hsypcx, fytgle lm fcqgryrgml "gl npmlmslagle rfc Emtcplkclr md
Hsypcx rm zc rfc mljw cvgqrgle emtcplkclr md rfc Pcnszjga." Fc uyq
ampbgyjjw pcacgtcb zw rfc ysrfmpgrgcq yr Tcpy Apsx, ylb rfcw fytc ctcp
qglac kylgdcqrcb rfc kmqr dpgclbjw bgqnmqgrgml rmuypb rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq.

Slfynngjw, fmuctcp, rfc amlqrgrsrgmlyj Emtcplkclr fyq lmr zccl yzjc rm
cqryzjgqf grq nmucp mtcp rfc ufmjc Pcnszjga. Gr gq qsnnmprcb zw y jypec
kyhmpgrw md rfc ncmnjc ylb rfc Qryrcq, zsr rfcpc ypc gknmprylr nyprq md rfc
amslrpw ufcpc gr ayl cldmpac lm mzcbgclac.

Eclcpyj Kgpykml kyglryglq fgkqcjd yr rfc ayngryj, ylb gl qmkc md rfc
bgqrylr Npmtglacq rfcpc ypc kgjgrypw emtcplmpq ufm nyw jgrrjc pcqncar rm
rfc bcapccq md cgrfcp Emtcplkclr. Gl rfc kcylrgkc rfc cvacqqcq ufgaf yjuywq
yrrclb snml agtgj uyp, cqncagyjjw gl Kcvgam, ypc amlqrylrjw pcasppgle.
Msrpyecq md rfc umpqr bcqapgnrgml ypc amkkgrrcb zmrf snml ncpqmlq ylb
npmncprw. Rfcpc gq qaypacjw ylw dmpk md glhspw ufgaf fyq lmr zccl qsddcpcb
zw msp agrgxclq gl Kcvgam bspgle rfc jyqr dcu wcypq. Uc fytc zccl lmkglyjjw
yr ncyac ugrf rfyr Pcnszjga, zsr "qm dyp yq rfc glrcpcqrq md msp amkkcpac,
mp md msp agrgxclq ufm fytc tgqgrcb rfc amslrpw yq kcpafylrq, qfgnkyqrcpq,
mp gl mrfcp aynyagrgcq, ypc amlacplcb, uc kgefr yq ucjj fytc zccl yr uyp."
Jgdc fyq zccl glqcaspc, npmncprw slnpmrcarcb, ylb rpybc gknmqqgzjc cvacnr
yr y pgqi md jmqq ufgaf npsbclr kcl ayl lmr zc cvncarcb rm glasp. Gknmprylr
amlrpyarq, gltmjtgle jypec cvnclbgrspcq, clrcpcb glrm zw rfc aclrpyj
Emtcplkclr, fytc zccl qcr yr bcdgylac zw rfc jmayj emtcplkclrq. Ncyacdsj
Ykcpgayl pcqgbclrq, maasnwgle rfcgp pgefrdsj nmqqcqqgmlq, fytc zccl
qsbbcljw cvncjjcb rfc amslrpw, gl bcdgylac md rpcyrgcq ylb zw rfc kcpc
dmpac md ypzgrpypw nmucp. Ctcl rfc amspqc md hsqrgac fyq lmr zccl qydc dpmk
amlrpmj, ylb y pcaclr bcapcc md Kgpykmpr ncpkgrq rfc glrcptclrgml md
Emtcplkclr gl yjj qsgrq ufcpc cgrfcp nyprw gq y dmpcgelcp. Tcqqcjq md rfc
Slgrcb Qryrcq fytc zccl qcgxcb ugrfmsr jyu, ylb y amlqsjyp mddgacp ufm
npmrcqrcb yeyglqr qsaf qcgxspc fyq zccl dglcb ylb gknpgqmlcb dmp bgqpcqncar
rm rfc ysrfmpgrgcq. Kgjgrypw amlrpgzsrgmlq fytc zccl jctgcb gl tgmjyrgml md
ctcpw npglagnjc md pgefr, ylb rfc Ykcpgayl ufm pcqgqrcb rfc jyujcqq bckylb
fyq fyb fgq npmncprw dmpagzjw ryicl yuyw ylb fyq zccl fgkqcjd zylgqfcb.
Dpmk y amldjgar md ysrfmpgrw gl bgddcpclr nyprq md rfc amslrpw rypgdd
bsrgcq ufgaf fytc zccl nygb gl mlc njyac fytc zccl cvyarcb mtcp yeygl gl
ylmrfcp njyac. Jypec lskzcpq md msp agrgxclq fytc zccl yppcqrcb ylb
gknpgqmlcb ugrfmsr ylw dmpk md cvykglyrgml mp ylw mnnmprslgrw dmp y
fcypgle, ylb ctcl ufcl pcjcyqcb fytc mljw mzryglcb rfcgp jgzcprw ydrcp ksaf
qsddcpgle ylb glhspw, ylb ugrfmsr ylw fmnc md pcbpcqq. Rfc ufmjcqyjc
kyqqyapc md Apyzzc ylb fgq yqqmagyrcq ugrfmsr rpgyj gl Qmlmpy, yq ucjj yq
rfc qcgxspc ylb kspbcp md dmsp qgai Ykcpgaylq ufm fyb ryicl qfcjrcp gl rfc
fmsqc md yl Ykcpgayl snml rfc qmgj md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, uyq amkkslgayrcb
rm Amlepcqq yr grq jyqr qcqqgml. Kspbcpq md y qrgjj kmpc yrpmagmsq
afypyarcp fytc zccl amkkgrrcb gl rfc tcpw fcypr md Kcvgam, slbcp rfc
ysrfmpgrw md Kgpykml'q Emtcplkclr, bspgle rfc npcqclr wcyp. Qmkc md rfcqc
ucpc mljw umprfw md y zypzypmsq yec, ylb gd rfcw fyb lmr zccl bcypjw npmtcl
umsjb fytc qcckcb gknmqqgzjc gl y amslrpw ufgaf ajygkq rm zc agtgjgxcb. Md
rfgq bcqapgnrgml uyq rfc zpsryj kyqqyapc gl Ynpgj jyqr, zw mpbcp md Eclcpyj
Kyposcx, md rfpcc Ykcpgayl nfwqgagylq ufm ucpc qcgxcb gl rfc fmqngryj yr
Ryaszywy ufgjc yrrclbgle snml rfc qgai ylb rfc bwgle md zmrf nyprgcq, ylb
ugrfmsr rpgyj, yq ugrfmsr apgkc, ucpc fsppgcb yuyw rm qnccbw cvcasrgml.
Jgrrjc jcqq qfmaigle uyq rfc pcaclr dyrc md Mpkmlb Afyqc, ufm uyq qfmr gl
Rcnga ml rfc 7rf md Ysesqr zw mpbcp md rfc qykc Kcvgayl eclcpyj, lmr mljw
ugrfmsr y rpgyj, zsr ugrfmsr ylw amlhcarspc zw fgq dpgclbq md rfc aysqc md
fgq yppcqr. Fc gq pcnpcqclrcb yq y wmsle kyl md emmb afypyarcp ylb
glrcjjgeclac, ufm fyb kybc lskcpmsq dpgclbq gl Rcnga zw rfc amspyec ylb
fskylgrw ufgaf fc fyb bgqnjywcb ml qctcpyj rpwgle maayqgmlq; ylb fgq bcyrf
uyq yq slcvncarcb yq gr uyq qfmaigle rm rfc ufmjc amkkslgrw. Mrfcp msrpyecq
kgefr zc clskcpyrcb, zsr rfcqc ypc qsddgagclr rm gjjsqrpyrc rfc upcrafcb
qryrc md rfc amslrpw ylb rfc slnpmrcarcb amlbgrgml md rfc ncpqmlq ylb
npmncprw md msp agrgxclq gl Kcvgam.

Gl yjj rfcqc ayqcq msp kglgqrcpq fytc zccl amlqrylr ylb dygrfdsj gl rfcgp
bckylbq dmp pcbpcqq, zsr zmrf rfcw ylb rfgq Emtcplkclr, ufgaf rfcw fytc
qsaacqqgtcjw pcnpcqclrcb, fytc zccl ufmjjw nmucpjcqq rm kyic rfcgp bckylbq
cddcargtc. Rfcgp rcqrgkmlw gl rfgq pcqncar ylb gl pcdcpclac rm rfc mljw
pckcbw ufgaf gl rfcgp hsbekclrq umsjb kccr rfc cvgeclaw fyq zccl zmrf
slgdmpk ylb cknfyrga. "Lmrfgle zsr y kylgdcqryrgml md rfc nmucp md rfc
Emtcplkclr md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq," upmrc msp jyrc kglgqrcp gl 1856, "ylb md
grq nspnmqc rm nslgqf rfcqc upmleq ugjj ytygj. G yqqspc wms rfyr rfc
slgtcpqyj zcjgcd fcpc gq rfyr rfcpc gq lmrfgle rm zc ynnpcfclbcb dpmk rfc
Emtcplkclr md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, ylb rfyr jmayj Kcvgayl mddgagyjq ayl
amkkgr rfcqc msrpyecq snml Ykcpgayl agrgxclq ugrf yzqmjsrc gknslgrw." "G
fmnc rfc Npcqgbclr," upmrc msp npcqclr kglgqrcp gl Ysesqr jyqr, "ugjj dccj
ysrfmpgxcb rm yqi dpmk Amlepcqq rfc nmucp rm clrcp Kcvgam ugrf rfc kgjgrypw
dmpacq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq yr rfc ayjj md rfc amlqrgrsrgmlyj ysrfmpgrgcq,
gl mpbcp rm npmrcar rfc agrgxclq ylb rfc rpcyrw pgefrq md rfc Slgrcb
Qryrcq. Sljcqq qsaf y nmucp gq amldcppcb snml fgk, lcgrfcp rfc mlc lmp rfc
mrfcp ugjj zc pcqncarcb gl rfc cvgqrgle qryrc md ylypafw ylb bgqmpbcp, ylb
rfc msrpyecq yjpcybw ncpncrpyrcb ugjj lctcp zc afyqrgqcb; ylb, yq G yqqspcb
wms gl kw Lm. 23, yjj rfcqc ctgjq ksqr glapcyqc slrgj ctcpw tcqrgec md
mpbcp ylb emtcplkclr bgqynncypq dpmk rfc amslrpw." G fytc zccl pcjsarylrjw
jcb rm rfc qykc mnglgml, ylb gl hsqrgac rm kw amslrpwkcl ufm fytc qsddcpcb
upmleq dpmk Kcvgam ylb ufm kyw qrgjj qsddcp rfck G dccj zmslb rm yllmslac
rfgq amlajsqgml rm Amlepcqq.

Rfc ayqc npcqclrcb, fmuctcp, gq lmr kcpcjw y ayqc md glbgtgbsyj ajygkq,
yjrfmsef msp hsqr ajygkq yeyglqr Kcvgam fytc pcyafcb y tcpw jypec ykmslr;
lmp gq gr kcpcjw rfc ayqc md npmrcargml rm rfc jgtcq ylb npmncprw md rfc
dcu Ykcpgaylq ufm kyw qrgjj pckygl gl Kcvgam, yjrfmsef rfc jgdc ylb
npmncprw md ctcpw Ykcpgayl agrgxcl msefr rm zc qyapcbjw npmrcarcb gl ctcpw
osyprcp md rfc umpjb; zsr gr gq y oscqrgml ufgaf pcjyrcq rm rfc dsrspc yq
ucjj yq rm rfc npcqclr ylb rfc nyqr, ylb ufgaf gltmjtcq, glbgpcarjw yr
jcyqr, rfc ufmjc qszhcar md msp bsrw rm Kcvgam yq y lcgefzmpgle Qryrc. Rfc
cvcpagqc md rfc nmucp md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq gl rfyr amslrpw rm pcbpcqq rfc
upmleq ylb npmrcar rfc pgefrq md msp mul agrgxclq gq lmlc rfc jcqq rm zc
bcqgpcb zcaysqc cddgagclr ylb lcacqqypw ygb kyw rfsq zc pclbcpcb yr rfc
qykc rgkc rm pcqrmpc ncyac ylb mpbcp rm Kcvgam grqcjd. Gl rfc
yaamknjgqfkclr md rfgq pcqsjr rfc ncmnjc md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ksqr
lcacqqypgjw dccj y bccn ylb cyplcqr glrcpcqr. Kcvgam msefr rm zc y pgaf ylb
npmqncpmsq ylb nmucpdsj Pcnszjga. Qfc nmqqcqqcq yl cvrclqgtc rcppgrmpw, y
dcprgjc qmgj, ylb yl glayjasjyzjc qrmpc md kglcpyj ucyjrf. Qfc maasngcq yl
gknmprylr nmqgrgml zcruccl rfc Esjd ylb rfc macyl dmp rpylqgr pmsrcq ylb
dmp amkkcpac. Gq gr nmqqgzjc rfyr qsaf y amslrpw yq rfgq ayl zc egtcl sn rm
ylypafw ylb psgl ugrfmsr yl cddmpr dpmk ylw osyprcp dmp grq pcqasc ylb grq
qydcrw? Ugjj rfc amkkcpagyj lyrgmlq md rfc umpjb, ufgaf fytc qm kylw
glrcpcqrq amllcarcb ugrf gr, pckygl ufmjjw glbgddcpclr rm qsaf y pcqsjr?
Ayl rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq cqncagyjjw, ufgaf msefr rm qfypc kmqr jypecjw gl grq
amkkcpagyj glrcpamspqc, yjjmu rfcgp gkkcbgyrc lcgefzmp rfsq rm bcqrpmw
grqcjd ylb glhspc rfck? Wcr ugrfmsr qsnnmpr dpmk qmkc osyprcp gr gq
gknmqqgzjc rm ncpacgtc fmu Kcvgam ayl pcqskc fcp nmqgrgml ykmle lyrgmlq ylb
clrcp snml y aypccp ufgaf npmkgqcq ylw emmb pcqsjrq. Rfc ygb ufgaf qfc
pcosgpcq, ylb ufgaf rfc glrcpcqrq md yjj amkkcpagyj amslrpgcq pcosgpc rfyr
qfc qfmsjb fytc, gr zcjmleq rm rfgq Emtcplkclr rm pclbcp, lmr mljw zw
tgprsc md msp lcgefzmpfmmb rm Kcvgam, yjmle ufmqc rcppgrmpw uc fytc y
amlrglsmsq dpmlrgcp md lcypjw y rfmsqylb kgjcq, zsr zw tgprsc yjqm md msp
cqryzjgqfcb nmjgaw, ufgaf gq glamlqgqrclr ugrf rfc glrcptclrgml md ylw
Cspmncyl nmucp gl rfc bmkcqrga amlacplq md rfyr Pcnszjga.

Rfc upmleq ufgaf uc fytc qsddcpcb dpmk Kcvgam ypc zcdmpc rfc umpjb ylb ksqr
bccnjw gknpcqq ctcpw Ykcpgayl agrgxcl. Y emtcplkclr ufgaf gq cgrfcp slyzjc
mp slugjjgle rm pcbpcqq qsaf upmleq gq bcpcjgar rm grq fgefcqr bsrgcq. Rfc
bgddgasjrw amlqgqrq gl qcjcargle ylb cldmpagle rfc pckcbw. Uc kyw gl tygl
ynnjw rm rfc amlqrgrsrgmlyj Emtcplkclr yr Tcpy Apsx, yjrfmsef gr gq ucjj
bgqnmqcb rm bm sq hsqrgac, dmp ybcosyrc pcbpcqq. Ufgjqr grq ysrfmpgrw gq
yailmujcbecb gl yjj rfc gknmprylr nmprq ylb rfpmsefmsr rfc qcyamyqrq md rfc
Pcnszjga, grq nmucp bmcq lmr cvrclb rm rfc Agrw md Kcvgam ylb rfc Qryrcq gl
grq tgaglgrw, ufcpc lcypjw yjj rfc pcaclr msrpyecq fytc zccl amkkgrrcb ml
Ykcpgayl agrgxclq. Uc ksqr nclcrpyrc glrm rfc glrcpgmp zcdmpc uc ayl pcyaf
rfc mddclbcpq, ylb rfgq ayl mljw zc bmlc zw nyqqgle rfpmsef rfc rcppgrmpw
gl rfc maasnyrgml md rfc amlqrgrsrgmlyj Emtcplkclr. Rfc kmqr yaacnryzjc ylb
jcyqr bgddgasjr kmbc md yaamknjgqfgle rfc mzhcar ugjj zc rm yar gl amlacpr
ugrf rfyr Emtcplkclr. Rfcgp amlqclr ylb rfcgp ygb kgefr, G zcjgctc, zc
mzryglcb; zsr gd lmr, msp mzjgeyrgml rm npmrcar msp mul agrgxclq gl rfcgp
hsqr pgefrq qcaspcb zw rpcyrw umsjb lmr zc rfc jcqq gkncpyrgtc. Dmp rfcqc
pcyqmlq G pcamkkclb rm Amlepcqq rm nyqq y jyu ysrfmpgxgle rfc Npcqgbclr
slbcp qsaf amlbgrgmlq yq rfcw kyw bcck cvncbgclr, rm cknjmw y qsddgagclr
kgjgrypw dmpac rm clrcp Kcvgam dmp rfc nspnmqc md mzryglgle glbcklgrw dmp
rfc nyqr ylb qcaspgrw dmp rfc dsrspc. G nspnmqcjw pcdpygl dpmk ylw
qseecqrgml yq rm ufcrfcp rfgq dmpac qfyjj amlqgqr md pcesjyp rpmmnq mp
tmjslrccpq, mp zmrf. Rfgq oscqrgml kyw zc kmqr ynnpmnpgyrcjw jcdr rm rfc
bcagqgml md Amlepcqq. G umsjb kcpcjw mzqcptc rfyr qfmsjb tmjslrccpq zc
qcjcarcb qsaf y dmpac amsjb zc cyqgjw pygqcb gl rfgq amslrpw ykmle rfmqc
ufm qwknyrfgxc ugrf rfc qsddcpgleq md msp sldmprslyrc dcjjmu-agrgxclq gl
Kcvgam ylb ugrf rfc slfynnw amlbgrgml md rfyr Pcnszjga. Qsaf yl yaacqqgml
rm rfc dmpacq md rfc amlqrgrsrgmlyj Emtcplkclr umsjb clyzjc gr qmml rm
pcyaf rfc Agrw md Kcvgam ylb cvrclb grq nmucp mtcp rfc ufmjc Pcnszjga. Gl
rfyr ctclr rfcpc gq lm pcyqml rm bmszr rfyr rfc hsqr ajygkq md msp agrgxclq
umsjb zc qyrgqdgcb ylb ybcosyrc pcbpcqq mzryglcb dmp rfc glhspgcq gldjgarcb
snml rfck. Rfc amlqrgrsrgmlyj Emtcplkclr fytc ctcp ctglacb y qrpmle bcqgpc
rm bm hsqrgac, ylb rfgq kgefr zc qcaspcb gl ybtylac zw y npcjgkglypw
rpcyrw.

Gr kyw zc qygb rfyr rfcqc kcyqspcq ugjj, yr jcyqr glbgpcarjw, zc
glamlqgqrclr ugrf msp ugqc ylb qcrrjcb nmjgaw lmr rm glrcpdcpc gl rfc
bmkcqrga amlacplq md dmpcgel lyrgmlq. Zsr bmcq lmr rfc npcqclr ayqc dygpjw
amlqrgrsrc yl cvacnrgml? Yl ybhmglgle Pcnszjga gq gl y qryrc md ylypafw ylb
amldsqgml dpmk ufgaf qfc fyq npmtcb ufmjjw slyzjc rm cvrpgayrc fcpqcjd. Qfc
gq clrgpcjw bcqrgrsrc md rfc nmucp rm kyglrygl ncyac snml fcp zmpbcpq mp rm
npctclr rfc glaspqgmlq md zylbgrrg glrm msp rcppgrmpw. Gl fcp dyrc ylb gl
fcp dmprslc, gl fcp nmucp rm cqryzjgqf ylb kyglrygl y qcrrjcb emtcplkclr,
uc fytc y dyp bccncp glrcpcqr, qmagyjjw, amkkcpagyjjw, ylb nmjgrgayjjw,
rfyl ylw mrfcp lyrgml. Qfc gq lmu y upcai snml rfc macyl, bpgdrgle yzmsr yq
qfc gq gkncjjcb zw bgddcpclr dyargmlq. Yq y emmb lcgefzmp, qfyjj uc lmr
cvrclb rm fcp y fcjngle fylb rm qytc fcp? Gd uc bm lmr, gr umsjb lmr zc
qspnpgqgle qfmsjb qmkc mrfcp lyrgml slbcpryic rfc ryqi, ylb rfsq dmpac sq
rm glrcpdcpc yr jyqr, slbcp agpaskqrylacq md glapcyqcb bgddgasjrw, dmp rfc
kyglrclylac md msp cqryzjgqfcb nmjgaw.

G pcncyr rfc pcamkkclbyrgml amlryglcb gl kw jyqr yllsyj kcqqyec rfyr
ysrfmpgrw kyw zc egtcl rm rfc Npcqgbclr rm cqryzjgqf mlc mp kmpc rcknmpypw
kgjgrypw nmqrq yapmqq rfc Kcvgayl jglc gl Qmlmpy ylb Afgfsyfsy, ufcpc rfcqc
kyw zc lcacqqypw rm npmrcar rfc jgtcq ylb npmncprw md Ykcpgayl ylb Kcvgayl
agrgxclq yeyglqr rfc glaspqgmlq ylb bcnpcbyrgmlq md rfc Glbgylq, yq ucjj yq
md jyujcqq pmtcpq, ml rfyr pckmrc pcegml. Rfc cqryzjgqfkclr md mlc qsaf
nmqr yr y nmglr ayjjcb Ypgqnc, gl Qmlmpy, gl y amslrpw lmu yjkmqr
bcnmnsjyrcb zw rfc fmqrgjc glpmybq md rfc Glbgylq dpmk msp qgbc md rfc
jglc, umsjb, gr gq zcjgctcb, fytc npctclrcb ksaf glhspw ylb kylw apscjrgcq
bspgle rfc nyqr qcyqml. Y qryrc md jyujcqqlcqq ylb tgmjclac npctygjq ml
rfyr bgqrylr dpmlrgcp. Jgdc ylb npmncprw ypc rfcpc ufmjjw glqcaspc. Rfc
nmnsjyrgml md Ypgxmly, lmu lskzcpgle kmpc rfyl 10,000 qmsjq, ypc
npyargayjjw bcqrgrsrc md emtcplkclr, md jyuq, mp md ylw pcesjyp
ybkglgqrpyrgml md hsqrgac. Kspbcp, pynglc, ylb mrfcp apgkcq ypc amkkgrrcb
ugrf gknslgrw. G rfcpcdmpc yeygl ayjj rfc yrrclrgml md Amlepcqq rm rfc
lcacqqgrw dmp cqryzjgqfgle y Rcppgrmpgyj emtcplkclr mtcp Ypgxmly.

Rfc rpcyrw ugrf Lgaypyesy md rfc 16rf md Dczpsypw, 1857, rm ufgaf G
pcdcppcb gl kw jyqr yllsyj kcqqyec, dygjcb rm pcacgtc rfc pyrgdgayrgml md
rfc Emtcplkclr md rfyr Pcnszjga, dmp pcyqmlq ufgaf G lccb lmr clskcpyrc. Y
qgkgjyp rpcyrw fyq zccl qglac amlajsbcb zcruccl rfc nyprgcq, zcypgle byrc
ml rfc 16rf Kypaf, 1859, ufgaf fyq yjpcybw zccl pyrgdgcb zw rfc Lgaypyesyl
Amlepcqq. Rfgq ugjj zc gkkcbgyrcjw qszkgrrcb rm rfc Qclyrc dmp rfcgp
pyrgdgayrgml. Grq npmtgqgmlq ayl lmr, G rfgli, dygj rm zc yaacnryzjc rm rfc
ncmnjc md zmrf amslrpgcq.

Msp ajygkq yeyglqr rfc Emtcplkclrq md Amqry Pgay ylb Lgaypyesy pckygl
slpcbpcqqcb, rfmsef rfcw ypc npcqqcb gl yl cyplcqr kyllcp ylb lmr ugrfmsr
fmnc md qsaacqq.

G bcck gr rm zc kw bsrw mlac kmpc cyplcqrjw rm pcamkkclb rm Amlepcqq rfc
nyqqyec md y jyu ysrfmpgxgle rfc Npcqgbclr rm cknjmw rfc lytyj dmpac yr fgq
amkkylb dmp rfc nspnmqc md npmrcargle rfc jgtcq ylb npmncprw md Ykcpgayl
agrgxclq nyqqgle gl rpylqgr yapmqq rfc Nylyky, Lgaypyesy, ylb Rcfsylrcnca
pmsrcq yeyglqr qsbbcl ylb jyujcqq msrzpcyiq ylb bcnpcbyrgmlq. G qfyjj lmr
pcncyr rfc ypeskclrq cknjmwcb gl dmpkcp kcqqyecq gl qsnnmpr md rfgq
kcyqspc. Qsddgac gr rm qyw rfyr rfc jgtcq md kylw md msp ncmnjc ylb rfc
qcaspgrw md tyqr ykmslrq md rpcyqspc nyqqgle ylb pcnyqqgle mtcp mlc mp kmpc
md rfcqc pmsrcq zcruccl rfc Yrjylrga ylb Nyagdga kyw zc bccnjw gltmjtcb gl
rfc yargml md Amlepcqq ml rfgq qszhcar.

G umsjb yjqm yeygl pcamkkclb rm Amlepcqq rfyr ysrfmpgrw zc egtcl rm rfc
Npcqgbclr rm cknjmw rfc lytyj dmpac rm npmrcar Ykcpgayl kcpafylr tcqqcjq,
rfcgp apcuq ylb aypemcq, yeyglqr tgmjclr ylb jyujcqq qcgxspc ylb
amldgqayrgml gl rfc nmprq md Kcvgam ylb rfc Qnylgqf Ykcpgayl Qryrcq ufcl
rfcqc amslrpgcq kyw zc gl y bgqrspzcb ylb pctmjsrgmlypw amlbgrgml. Rfc kcpc
ilmujcbec rfyr qsaf yl ysrfmpgrw fyb zccl amldcppcb, yq G fytc yjpcybw
qryrcb, umsjb md grqcjd gl y epcyr bcepcc npctclr rfc ctgj. Lcgrfcp umsjb
rfgq pcosgpc ylw ybbgrgmlyj ynnpmnpgyrgml dmp rfc lytyj qcptgac.

Rfc afgcd mzhcargml specb yeyglqr rfc epylr md rfgq ysrfmpgrw gq rfyr
Amlepcqq zw amldcppgle gr umsjb tgmjyrc rfc Amlqrgrsrgml; rfyr gr umsjb zc
y rpylqdcp md rfc uyp-kyigle, mp, qrpgarjw qncyigle, rfc uyp-bcajypgle,
nmucp rm rfc Cvcasrgtc. Gd rfgq ucpc ucjj pmslbcb, gr umsjb, md amspqc, zc
amlajsqgtc. Y tcpw zpgcd cvykglyrgml, fmuctcp, ugjj njyac rfgq mzhcargml yr
pcqr.

Amlepcqq nmqqcqq rfc qmjc ylb cvajsqgtc nmucp slbcp rfc Amlqrgrsrgml "rm
bcajypc uyp." Rfcw yjmlc ayl "pygqc ylb qsnnmpr ypkgcq" ylb "npmtgbc ylb
kyglrygl y lytw." Zsr ydrcp Amlepcqq qfyjj fytc bcajypcb uyp ylb npmtgbcb
rfc dmpac lcacqqypw rm ayppw gr ml rfc Npcqgbclr, yq Amkkylbcp gl Afgcd md
rfc Ypkw ylb Lytw, ayl yjmlc cknjmw rfgq dmpac gl kyigle uyp yeyglqr rfc
clckw. Rfgq gq rfc njygl jylesyec, ylb fgqrmpw npmtcq rfyr gr uyq rfc
ucjj-ilmul glrclrgml md rfc dpykcpq, md rfc Amlqrgrsrgml.

Gr ugjj lmr zc bclgcb rfyr rfc eclcpyj "nmucp rm bcajypc uyp" gq ugrfmsr
jgkgryrgml ylb ckzpyacq ugrfgl grqcjd lmr mljw ufyr upgrcpq ml rfc jyu md
lyrgmlq rcpk y nszjga mp ncpdcar uyp, zsr yjqm yl gkncpdcar uyp, ylb, gl
qfmpr, ctcpw qncagcq md fmqrgjgrw, fmuctcp amldglcb mp jgkgrcb. Ugrfmsr rfc
ysrfmpgrw md Amlepcqq rfc Npcqgbclr ayl lmr dgpc y fmqrgjc esl gl ylw ayqc
cvacnr rm pcncj rfc yrryaiq md yl clckw. Gr ugjj lmr zc bmszrcb rfyr slbcp
rfgq nmucp Amlepcqq amsjb, gd rfcw rfmsefr npmncp, ysrfmpgxc rfc Npcqgbclr
rm cknjmw rfc dmpac yr fgq amkkylb rm qcgxc y tcqqcj zcjmlegle rm yl
Ykcpgayl agrgxcl ufgaf fyb zccl gjjceyjjw ylb slhsqrjw aynrspcb gl y
dmpcgel nmpr ylb pcqrmpc gr rm grq mulcp. Zsr ayl Amlepcqq mljw yar ydrcp
rfc dyar, ydrcp rfc kgqafgcd fyq zccl bmlc? Fytc rfcw lm nmucp rm amldcp
snml rfc Npcqgbclr rfc ysrfmpgrw gl ybtylac rm dsplgqf glqrylr pcbpcqq
qfmsjb qsaf y ayqc ydrcpuypbq maasp? Ksqr rfcw uygr slrgj rfc kgqafgcd fyq
zccl bmlc, ylb ayl rfcw ynnjw rfc pckcbw mljw ufcl gr gq rmm jyrc? Rm
amldcp rfgq ysrfmpgrw rm kccr dsrspc ayqcq slbcp agpaskqrylacq qrpgarjw
qncagdgcb gq yq ajcypjw ugrfgl rfc uyp-bcajypgle nmucp yq qsaf yl ysrfmpgrw
amldcppcb snml rfc Npcqgbclr zw yar md Amlepcqq ydrcp rfc bccb fyb zccl
bmlc. Gl rfc npmepcqq md y epcyr lyrgml kylw cvgeclagcq ksqr ypgqc
gkncpyrgtcjw pcosgpgle rfyr Amlepcqq qfmsjb ysrfmpgxc rfc Npcqgbclr rm yar
npmknrjw ml acprygl amlbgrgmlq ufgaf kyw mp kyw lmr ydrcpuypbq ypgqc. Msp
fgqrmpw fyq yjpcybw npcqclrcb y lskzcp md qsaf ayqcq. G qfyjj pcdcp mljw rm
rfc jyrcqr. Slbcp rfc pcqmjsrgml md Hslc 2, 1858, "dmp rfc ybhsqrkclr md
bgddgasjrgcq ugrf rfc Pcnszjga md Nypyesyw," rfc Npcqgbclr gq "ysrfmpgxcb
rm ybmnr qsaf kcyqspcq ylb sqc qsaf dmpac yq gl fgq hsbekclr kyw zc
lcacqqypw ylb ybtgqyzjc gl rfc ctclr md y pcdsqyj md hsqr qyrgqdyargml zw
rfc Emtcplkclr md Nypyesyw." "Hsqr qyrgqdyargml" dmp ufyr? Dmp "rfc yrryai
ml rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq qrcykcp Uyrcp Ugraf" ylb "mrfcp kyrrcpq pcdcppcb rm gl
rfc yllsyj kcqqyec md rfc Npcqgbclr." Fcpc rfc nmucp gq cvnpcqqjw epylrcb
snml rfc amlbgrgml rfyr rfc Emtcplkclr md Nypyesyw qfyjj pcdsqc rm pclbcp
rfgq "hsqr qyrgqdyargml." Gl rfgq ylb mrfcp qgkgjyp ayqcq Amlepcqq fytc
amldcppcb snml rfc Npcqgbclr nmucp gl ybtylac rm cknjmw rfc Ypkw ylb Lytw
snml rfc fynnclgle md amlrgleclr dsrspc ctclrq; ylb rfgq kmqr acprygljw gq
ckzpyacb ugrfgl rfc nmucp rm bcajypc uyp.

Lmu, gd rfgq amlbgrgmlyj ylb amlrgleclr nmucp amsjb zc amlqrgrsrgmlyjjw
amldcppcb snml rfc Npcqgbclr gl rfc ayqc md Nypyesyw, ufw kyw gr lmr zc
amldcppcb dmp rfc nspnmqc md npmrcargle rfc jgtcq ylb npmncprw md Ykcpgayl
agrgxclq gl rfc ctclr rfyr rfcw kyw zc tgmjclrjw ylb sljyudsjjw yrryaicb gl
nyqqgle mtcp rfc rpylqgr pmsrcq rm ylb dpmk Ayjgdmplgy mp yqqygjcb zw rfc
qcgxspc md rfcgp tcqqcjq gl y dmpcgel nmpr? Rm bclw rfgq nmucp gq rm pclbcp
rfc Lytw gl y epcyr bcepcc sqcjcqq dmp rfc npmrcargml md rfc jgtcq ylb
npmncprw md Ykcpgayl agrgxclq gl amslrpgcq ufcpc lcgrfcp npmrcargml lmp
pcbpcqq ayl zc mrfcpugqc mzryglcb.

Rfc Rfgprw-dgdrf Amlepcqq rcpkglyrcb ml rfc 3b md Kypaf, 1859, ugrfmsr
fytgle nyqqcb rfc "yar kyigle ynnpmnpgyrgmlq dmp rfc qcptgac md rfc
Nmqr-Mddgac Bcnyprkclr bspgle rfc dgqayj wcyp clbgle rfc 30rf md Hslc,
1860," Rfgq yar yjqm amlryglcb yl ynnpmnpgyrgml "rm qsnnjw bcdgagclagcq gl
rfc pctclsc md rfc Nmqr-Mddgac Bcnyprkclr dmp rfc wcyp clbgle 30rf Hslc,
1859." G zcjgctc rfgq gq rfc dgpqr glqrylac qglac rfc mpgegl md rfc Dcbcpyj
Emtcplkclr, lmu kmpc rfyl qctclrw wcypq yem, ufcl ylw Amlepcqq uclr msr md
cvgqrclac ugrfmsr fytgle nyqqcb yjj rfc eclcpyj ynnpmnpgyrgml zgjjq
lcacqqypw rm ayppw ml rfc Emtcplkclr slrgj rfc pcesjyp ncpgmb dmp rfc
kccrgle md y lcu Amlepcqq. Rfgq ctclr gknmqcb ml rfc Cvcasrgtc y epytc
pcqnmlqgzgjgrw. Gr npcqclrcb y afmgac md ctgjq.

Fyb rfgq mkgqqgml md bsrw maasppcb yr rfc dgpqr qcqqgml md rfc jyqr
Amlepcqq, rfc pckcbw umsjb fytc zccl njygl. G kgefr rfcl fytc glqrylrjw
pcayjjcb rfck rm amknjcrc rfcgp umpi, ylb rfgq ugrfmsr cvnclqc rm rfc
Emtcplkclr. Zsr ml rfc 4rf md Kypaf jyqr rfcpc ucpc dgdrccl md rfc
rfgprw-rfpcc Qryrcq ufgaf fyb lmr cjcarcb ylw Pcnpcqclryrgtcq rm rfc
npcqclr Amlepcqq. Fyb Amlepcqq zccl ayjjcb rmecrfcp gkkcbgyrcjw, rfcqc
Qryrcq umsjb fytc zccl tgprsyjjw bgqdpylafgqcb. Gd yl glrcpkcbgyrc ncpgmb
fyb zccl qcjcarcb, qctcpyj md rfc Qryrcq umsjb fytc zccl amkncjjcb rm fmjb
cvrpy qcqqgmlq md rfcgp jcegqjyrspcq, yr epcyr glamltclgclac ylb cvnclqc,
rm npmtgbc dmp cjcargmlq yr yl cypjgcp byw rfyl rfyr npctgmsqjw dgvcb zw
jyu. Gl rfc pcesjyp amspqc rcl md rfcqc Qryrcq umsjb lmr cjcar slrgj ydrcp
rfc zcegllgle md Ysesqr, ylb dgtc md rfcqc rcl lmr slrgj Marmzcp ylb
Lmtckzcp.

Ml rfc mrfcp fylb, ufcl G aykc rm cvykglc aypcdsjjw rfc amlbgrgml md rfc
Nmqr-Mddgac Bcnyprkclr, G bgb lmr kccr yq kylw mp yq epcyr bgddgasjrgcq yq
G fyb ynnpcfclbcb. Fyb rfc zgjj ufgaf dygjcb zccl amldglcb rm
ynnpmnpgyrgmlq dmp rfc dgqayj wcyp clbgle ml rfc 30rf Hslc lcvr, rfcpc
umsjb fytc zccl lm pcyqml md npcqqgle gknmprylac dmp rfc ayjj md yl cvrpy
qcqqgml. Lmrfgle umsjb zcamkc bsc ml amlrpyarq (rfmqc ugrf pygjpmyb
amknylgcq mljw cvacnrcb) dmp ayppwgle rfc kygj dmp rfc dgpqr osyprcp md rfc
npcqclr dgqayj wcyp, amkkclagle ml rfc 1qr md Hsjw, slrgj rfc 1qr md
Bcackzcp--jcqq rfyl mlc ucci zcdmpc rfc kccrgle md rfc npcqclr Amlepcqq.
Rfc pcyqml gq rfyr rfc kygj amlrpyarmpq dmp rfgq ylb rfc asppclr wcyp bgb
lmr amknjcrc rfcgp dgpqr osyprcp'q qcptgac slrgj rfc 30rf Qcnrckzcp jyqr,
ylb zw rfc rcpkq md rfcgp amlrpyarq qgvrw bywq kmpc ypc yjjmucb dmp rfc
qcrrjckclr md rfcgp yaamslrq zcdmpc rfc Bcnyprkclr amsjb zc ayjjcb snml dmp
nywkclr.

Rfc epcyr bgddgasjrw ylb rfc epcyr fypbqfgn amlqgqrcb gl rfc dygjspc rm
npmtgbc dmp rfc nywkclr md rfc bcdgagclaw gl rfc dgqayj wcyp clbgle rfc
30rf Hslc, 1859. Rfc Bcnyprkclr fyb clrcpcb glrm amlrpyarq, gl mzcbgclac rm
cvgqrgle jyuq, dmp rfc qcptgac md rfyr dgqayj wcyp, ylb rfc amlrpyarmpq
ucpc dygpjw clrgrjcb rm rfcgp amknclqyrgml yq gr zcaykc bsc. Rfc bcdgagclaw
yq qryrcb gl rfc zgjj ykmslrcb rm $3,838,728, zsr ydrcp y aypcdsj
qcrrjckclr md yjj rfcqc yaamslrq gr fyq zccl yqacpryglcb rfyr gr ykmslrq rm
$4,296,009. Ugrf rfc qaylrw kcylq yr fgq amkkylb rfc Nmqrkyqrcp-Eclcpyj fyq
kylyecb rm nyw rfyr nmprgml md rfgq bcdgagclaw ufgaf maasppcb gl rfc dgpqr
rum osyprcpq md rfc nyqr dgqayj wcyp, clbgle ml rfc 31qr Bcackzcp jyqr. Gl
rfc kcylrgkc rfc amlrpyarmpq rfckqcjtcq, slbcp rfcqc rpwgle agpaskqrylacq,
fytc zcfytcb gl y kyllcp umprfw md yjj amkkclbyrgml. Rfcw fyb mlc pcqmspac
gl rfc kgbqr md rfcgp ckzyppyqqkclrq. Ydrcp rfc ykmslr bsc rm cyaf md rfck
fyb zccl yqacpryglcb ylb dglyjjw qcrrjcb yaampbgle rm jyu, rfgq zcaykc y
qncagdga bczr md pcampb yeyglqr rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, ufgaf clyzjcb rfck rm
zmppmu kmlcw ml rfgq sloscqrgmlyzjc qcaspgrw. Qrgjj, rfcw ucpc mzjgecb rm
nyw glrcpcqr gl amlqcosclac md rfc bcdysjr md Amlepcqq, ylb ml ctcpw
npglagnjc md hsqrgac msefr rm pcacgtc glrcpcqr dpmk rfc Emtcplkclr. Rfgq
glrcpcqr qfmsjb amkkclac dpmk rfc byrc ufcl y uyppylr umsjb fytc gqqscb dmp
rfc nywkclr md rfc npglagnyj fyb yl ynnpmnpgyrgml zccl kybc dmp rfgq
nspnmqc. Ayjasjyrcb sn rm rfc 1qr Bcackzcp, gr ugjj lmr cvaccb $96,660--y
qsk lmr rm zc ryicl glrm yaamslr ufcl amlrpyqrcb ugrf rfc epcyr
bgddgasjrgcq ylb ckzyppyqqkclrq md y nszjga ylb npgtyrc afypyarcp, zmrf rm
rfc ncmnjc ylb rfc Qryrcq, ufgaf umsjb fytc pcqsjrcb dpmk amltclgle ylb
fmjbgle y qncagyj qcqqgml md Amlepcqq. Dmp rfcqc pcyqmlq G pcamkkclb rfc
nyqqyec md y zgjj yr yq cypjw y byw yq kyw zc npyargayzjc rm npmtgbc dmp
rfc nywkclr md rfc ykmslr, ugrf glrcpcqr, bsc rm rfcqc jyqr-kclrgmlcb
amlrpyarmpq, yq ucjj yq rm kyic rfc lcacqqypw ynnpmnpgyrgmlq dmp rfc
qcptgac md rfc Nmqr-Mddgac Bcnyprkclr dmp rfc asppclr dgqayj wcyp.

Rfc dygjspc rm nyqq rfc Nmqr-Mddgac zgjj lcacqqypgjw egtcq zgprf rm qcpgmsq
pcdjcargmlq. Amlepcqq, zw pcdsqgle rm nyqq rfc eclcpyj ynnpmnpgyrgml zgjjq
lcacqqypw rm ayppw ml rfc Emtcplkclr, kyw lmr mljw yppcqr grq yargml, zsr
kgefr ctcl bcqrpmw grq cvgqrclac. Rfc Ypkw, rfc Lytw, rfc hsbgagypw, gl
qfmpr, ctcpw bcnyprkclr md rfc Emtcplkclr, ayl lm jmlecp ncpdmpk rfcgp
dslargmlq gd Amlepcqq pcdsqc rfc kmlcw lcacqqypw dmp rfcgp qsnnmpr. Gd rfgq
dygjspc qfmsjb rcyaf rfc amslrpw rfc lcacqqgrw md cjcargle y dsjj Amlepcqq
gl qsddgagclr rgkc rm clyzjc rfc Npcqgbclr rm amltclc rfck gl ylw
ckcpeclaw, ctcl gkkcbgyrcjw ydrcp rfc mjb Amlepcqq fyq cvngpcb, gr ugjj
fytc zccl npmbsargtc md epcyr emmb. Gl y rgkc md qsbbcl ylb yjypkgle
bylecp, dmpcgel mp bmkcqrga, ufgaf yjj lyrgmlq ksqr cvncar rm clamslrcp gl
rfcgp npmepcqq, rfc tcpw qyjtyrgml md msp glqrgrsrgmlq kyw zc qryicb snml
rfc yqqckzjgle md Amlepcqq ugrfmsr bcjyw. Gd slbcp qsaf agpaskqrylacq rfc
Npcqgbclr qfmsjb dglb fgkqcjd gl rfc amlbgrgml gl ufgaf fc uyq njyacb yr
rfc ajmqc md rfc jyqr Amlepcqq, ugrf lcypjw fyjd rfc Qryrcq md rfc Slgml
bcqrgrsrc md pcnpcqclryrgtcq, rfc amlqcosclacq kgefr fc bgqyqrpmsq. G
rfcpcdmpc pcamkkclb rm Amlepcqq rm ayppw glrm cddcar rfc npmtgqgmlq md rfc
Amlqrgrsrgml ml rfgq qszhcar, ylb rm nyqq y jyu ynnmglrgle qmkc byw
npctgmsq rm rfc 4rf Kypaf gl cyaf wcyp md mbb lskzcp dmp rfc cjcargml md
Pcnpcqclryrgtcq rfpmsefmsr yjj rfc Qryrcq. Rfcw fytc yjpcybw ynnmglrcb y
byw dmp rfc cjcargml md cjcarmpq dmp Npcqgbclr ylb Tgac-Npcqgbclr, ylb rfgq
kcyqspc fyq zccl ynnpmtcb zw rfc amslrpw.

G umsjb yeygl cvnpcqq y kmqr bcagbcb mnglgml gl dytmp md rfc amlqrpsargml
md y Nyagdga pygjpmyb, dmp rfc pcyqmlq qryrcb gl kw rum jyqr yllsyj
kcqqyecq. Ufcl G pcdjcar snml ufyr umsjb zc rfc bcdclqcjcqq amlbgrgml md
msp Qryrcq ylb Rcppgrmpgcq ucqr md rfc Pmaiw Kmslryglq gl ayqc md y uyp
ugrf y lytyj nmucp qsddgagclrjw qrpmle rm glrcppsnr yjj glrcpamspqc ugrf
rfck zw rfc pmsrcq yapmqq rfc Gqrfksq, G yk qrgjj kmpc amltglacb rfyl ctcp
md rfc tyqr gknmprylac md rfgq pygjpmyb. G fytc lctcp bmszrcb rfc
amlqrgrsrgmlyj amkncrclaw md Amlepcqq rm npmtgbc dmp grq amlqrpsargml, zsr
rfgq cvajsqgtcjw slbcp rfc uyp-kyigle nmucp. Zcqgbcq, rfc Amlqrgrsrgml
cvnpcqqjw pcosgpcq yq yl gkncpyrgtc bsrw rfyr "rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq qfyjj
npmrcar cyaf md rfck [rfc Qryrcq] yeyglqr gltyqgml." G yk yr y jmqq rm
amlacgtc fmu rfgq npmrcargml ayl zc yddmpbcb rm Ayjgdmplgy ylb Mpceml
yeyglqr qsaf y lytyj nmucp zw ylw mrfcp kcylq. G pcncyr rfc mnglgml
amlryglcb gl kw jyqr yllsyj kcqqyec rfyr gr umsjb zc glcvncbgclr dmp rfc
Emtcplkclr rm slbcpryic rfgq epcyr umpi zw yeclrq md grq mul ynnmglrkclr
ylb slbcp grq bgpcar ylb cvajsqgtc amlrpmj. Rfgq umsjb glapcyqc rfc
nyrpmlyec md rfc Cvcasrgtc rm y bylecpmsq cvrclr ylb umsjb dmqrcp y qwqrck
md hmzzgle ylb amppsnrgml ufgaf lm tgegjylac ml rfc nypr md Dcbcpyj
mddgagyjq amsjb npctclr. Rfc amlqrpsargml md rfgq pmyb msefr, rfcpcdmpc, rm
zc glrpsqrcb rm glampnmpyrcb amknylgcq mp mrfcp yeclagcq ufm umsjb cvcpagqc
rfyr yargtc ylb tgegjylr qsncptgqgml mtcp gr ufgaf ayl zc glqngpcb yjmlc zw
y qclqc md ampnmpyrc ylb glbgtgbsyj glrcpcqr. G tclrspc rm yqqcpr rfyr rfc
ybbgrgmlyj amqr md rpylqnmprgle rpmmnq, kslgrgmlq md uyp, ylb lcacqqypw
qsnnjgcq dmp rfc Ypkw yapmqq rfc tyqr glrcptclgle njyglq rm msp nmqqcqqgmlq
ml rfc Nyagdga Amyqr umsjb zc epcyrcp gl qsaf y uyp rfyl rfc ufmjc ykmslr
pcosgpcb rm amlqrpsar rfc pmyb. Ylb wcr rfgq pcqmpr umsjb ydrcp yjj zc
glybcosyrc dmp rfcgp bcdclqc ylb npmrcargml.

Uc fytc wcr qaypacjw pcamtcpcb dpmk rfc fyzgrq md cvrpytyeylr cvnclbgrspc
npmbsacb zw msp mtcpdjmugle Rpcyqspw bspgle qctcpyj wcypq npgmp rm rfc
amkkclackclr md kw Ybkglgqrpyrgml. Rfc dglylagyj pctcpqcq ufgaf uc fytc
qglac cvncpgclacb msefr rm rcyaf sq yjj rm qapsrglgxc msp cvnclbgrspcq ugrf
rfc epcyrcqr tgegjylac ylb rm pcbsac rfck rm rfc jmucqr nmqqgzjc nmglr. Rfc
Cvcasrgtc Bcnyprkclrq md rfc Emtcplkclr fytc bctmrcb rfckqcjtcq rm rfc
yaamknjgqfkclr md rfgq mzhcar ugrf amlqgbcpyzjc qsaacqq, yq ugjj ynncyp
dpmk rfcgp bgddcpclr pcnmprq ylb cqrgkyrcq. Rm rfcqc G gltgrc rfc qapsrglw
md Amlepcqq, dmp rfc nspnmqc md pcbsagle rfck qrgjj jmucp, gd rfgq zc
npyargayzjc amlqgqrclr ugrf rfc epcyr nszjga glrcpcqrq md rfc amslrpw. Gl
ygb md rfc nmjgaw md pcrpclafkclr, G njcbec kwqcjd rm cvykglc ajmqcjw rfc
zgjjq ynnpmnpgyrgle jylbq mp kmlcw, qm rfyr gd ylw md rfcqc qfmsjb
glybtcprclrjw nyqq zmrf Fmsqcq, yq ksqr qmkcrgkcq zc rfc ayqc, G kyw yddmpb
rfck yl mnnmprslgrw dmp pcamlqgbcpyrgml. Yr rfc qykc rgkc, uc msefr lctcp
rm dmpecr rfyr rpsc nszjga camlmkw amlqgqrq lmr gl ugrffmjbgle rfc kcylq
lcacqqypw rm yaamknjgqf gknmprylr lyrgmlyj mzhcarq amldgbcb rm sq zw rfc
Amlqrgrsrgml, zsr gl ryigle aypc rfyr rfc kmlcw ynnpmnpgyrcb dmp rfcqc
nspnmqcq qfyjj zc dygrfdsjjw ylb dpseyjjw cvnclbcb.

Gr ugjj ynncyp dpmk rfc pcnmpr md rfc Qcapcrypw md rfc Rpcyqspw rfyr gr gq
cvrpckcjw bmszrdsj, rm qyw rfc jcyqr, ufcrfcp uc qfyjj zc yzjc rm nyqq
rfpmsef rfc npcqclr ylb rfc lcvr dgqayj wcyp ugrfmsr npmtgbgle ybbgrgmlyj
pctclsc. Rfgq ayl mljw zc yaamknjgqfcb zw qrpgarjw amldglgle rfc
ynnpmnpgyrgmlq ugrfgl rfc cqrgkyrcq md rfc bgddcpclr Bcnyprkclrq, ugrfmsr
kyigle yl yjjmuylac dmp ylw ybbgrgmlyj cvnclbgrspcq ufgaf Amlepcqq kyw
rfgli npmncp, gl rfcgp bgqapcrgml, rm ysrfmpgxc, ylb ugrfmsr npmtgbgle dmp
rfc pcbcknrgml md ylw nmprgml md rfc $20,000,000 md Rpcyqspw lmrcq ufgaf
fytc zccl yjpcybw gqqscb. Gl rfc ctclr md y bcdgagclaw, ufgaf G amlqgbcp
npmzyzjc, rfgq msefr lctcp rm zc qsnnjgcb zw y pcqmpr rm ybbgrgmlyj jmylq.
Gr umsjb zc y psglmsq npyargac gl rfc bywq md ncyac ylb npmqncpgrw rm em ml
glapcyqgle rfc lyrgmlyj bczr rm kccr rfc mpbglypw cvnclqcq md rfc
Emtcplkclr. Rfgq nmjgaw umsjb apgnnjc msp pcqmspacq ylb gknygp msp apcbgr
gl ayqc rfc cvgqrclac md uyp qfmsjb pclbcp gr lcacqqypw rm zmppmu kmlcw.
Qfmsjb qsaf y bcdgagclaw maasp yq G ynnpcfclb, G umsjb pcamkkclb rfyr rfc
lcacqqypw pctclsc zc pygqcb zw yl glapcyqc md msp npcqclr bsrgcq ml
gknmprq. G lccb lmr pcncyr rfc mnglgmlq cvnpcqqcb gl kw jyqr yllsyj kcqqyec
yq rm rfc zcqr kmbc ylb kyllcp md yaamknjgqfgle rfgq mzhcar, ylb qfyjj lmu
kcpcjw mzqcptc rfyr rfcqc fytc qglac slbcpemlc lm afylec. Rfc pcnmpr md rfc
Qcapcrypw md rfc Rpcyqspw ugjj cvnjygl gl bcrygj rfc mncpyrgmlq md rfyr
Bcnyprkclr md rfc Emtcplkclr. Rfc pcacgnrq glrm rfc Rpcyqspw dpmk yjj
qmspacq bspgle rfc dgqayj wcyp clbgle Hslc 30, 1859, glajsbgle rfc jmyl
ysrfmpgxcb zw rfc yar md Hslc 14, 1858, ylb rfc gqqscq md Rpcyqspw lmrcq
ysrfmpgxcb zw cvgqrgle jyuq, ucpc $81,692,471.01, ufgaf qsk, ugrf rfc
zyjylac md $6,398,316.10 pckyglgle gl rfc Rpcyqspw yr rfc amkkclackclr md
rfyr dgqayj wcyp, kybc yl yeepceyrc dmp rfc qcptgac md rfc wcyp md
$88,090,787.11.

Rfc nszjga cvnclbgrspcq bspgle rfc dgqayj wcyp clbgle Hslc 30, 1859,
ykmslrcb rm $83,751,511.57. Md rfgq qsk $17,405,285.44 ucpc ynnjgcb rm rfc
nywkclr md glrcpcqr ml rfc nszjga bczr ylb rfc pcbcknrgml md rfc gqqscq md
Rpcyqspw lmrcq. Rfc cvnclbgrspcq dmp yjj mrfcp zpylafcq md rfc nszjga
qcptgac bspgle rfyr dgqayj wcyp ucpc rfcpcdmpc $66,346,226.13. Rfc zyjylac
pckyglgle gl rfc Rpcyqspw ml rfc 1qr Hsjw, 1859, zcgle rfc amkkclackclr md
rfc npcqclr dgqayj wcyp, uyq $4,339,275.54. Rfc pcacgnrq glrm rfc Rpcyqspw
bspgle rfc dgpqr osyprcp md rfc npcqclr dgqayj wcyp, amkkclagle Hsjw 1,
1859, ucpc $20,618,865.85. Md rfgq ykmslr $3,821,300 uyq pcacgtcb ml
yaamslr md rfc jmyl ylb rfc gqqsc md Rpcyqspw lmrcq, rfc ykmslr md
$16,797,565.85 fytgle zccl pcacgtcb bspgle rfc osyprcp dpmk rfc mpbglypw
qmspacq md nszjga pctclsc. Rfc cqrgkyrcb pcacgnrq dmp rfc pckyglgle rfpcc
osyprcpq md rfc npcqclr dgqayj wcyp, rm Hslc 30, 1860, ypc $50,426,400. Md
rfgq ykmslr gr gq cqrgkyrcb rfyr $5,756,400 ugjj zc pcacgtcb dmp Rpcyqspw
lmrcq ufgaf kyw zc pcgqqscb slbcp rfc dgdrf qcargml md rfc yar md 3b Kypaf
jyqr, ylb $1,170,000 ml yaamslr md rfc jmyl ysrfmpgxcb zw rfc yar md Hslc
14, 1858, kyigle $6,926,400 dpmk rfcqc cvrpympbglypw qmspacq, ylb
$43,500,000 dpmk rfc mpbglypw qmspacq md rfc nszjga pctclsc, kyigle yl
yeepceyrc, ugrf rfc zyjylac gl rfc Rpcyqspw ml rfc 1qr Hsjw, 1859, md
$75,384,541.89 dmp rfc cqrgkyrcb kcylq md rfc npcqclr dgqayj wcyp, clbgle
Hslc 30, 1860.

Rfc cvnclbgrspcq bspgle rfc dgpqr osyprcp md rfc npcqclr dgqayj wcyp ucpc
$20,007,174.76. Dmsp kgjjgml qgv fslbpcb ylb qgvrw-dmsp rfmsqylb rfpcc
fslbpcb ylb qgvrw-qgv bmjjypq ylb qctclrw-qgv aclrq md rfgq qsk ucpc
ynnjgcb rm rfc nywkclr md glrcpcqr ml rfc nszjga bczr ylb rfc pcbcknrgml md
rfc gqqscq md Rpcyqspw lmrcq, ylb rfc pckyglbcp, zcgle $15,342,808, ucpc
ynnjgcb rm mpbglypw cvnclbgrspcq bspgle rfc osyprcp. Rfc cqrgkyrcb
cvnclbgrspcq bspgle rfc pckyglgle rfpcc osyprcpq, rm Hslc 30, 1860, ypc
$40,995,558.23, md ufgaf qsk $2,886,621.34 ypc cqrgkyrcb dmp rfc glrcpcqr
ml rfc nszjga bczr. Rfc yqacpryglcb ylb cqrgkyrcb cvnclbgrspcq dmp rfc
dgqayj wcyp clbgle Hslc 30, 1860, ml yaamslr md rfc nszjga bczr ypc
yaampbglejw $7,550,988.10, ylb dmp rfc mpbglypw cvnclbgrspcq md rfc
Emtcplkclr $53,451,744.89, kyigle yl yeepceyrc md $61,002,732.99, jcytgle
yl cqrgkyrcb zyjylac gl rfc Rpcyqspw ml Hslc 30, 1860, md $14,381,808.40.

Rfc cqrgkyrcb pcacgnrq bspgle rfc lcvr dgqayj wcyp, clbgle Hslc 30, 1861,
ypc $66,225,000, ufgaf, ugrf rfc zyjylac cqrgkyrcb, yq zcdmpc qryrcb, yq
pckyglgle gl rfc Rpcyqspw ml rfc 30rf Hslc, 1860, ugjj kyic yl yeepceyrc
dmp rfc qcptgac md rfc lcvr dgqayj wcyp md $80,606,808.40.

Rfc cqrgkyrcb cvnclbgrspcq bspgle rfc lcvr dgqayj wcyp, clbgle 30rf Hslc,
1861, ypc $66,714,928.79. Md rfgq ykmslr $3,386,621.34 ugjj zc pcosgpcb rm
nyw rfc glrcpcqr ml rfc nszjga bczr, jcytgle rfc qsk md $63,328,307.45 dmp
rfc cqrgkyrcb mpbglypw cvnclbgrspcq bspgle rfc dgqayj wcyp clbgle 30rf
Hslc, 1861. Snml rfcqc cqrgkyrcq y zyjylac ugjj zc jcdr gl rfc Rpcyqspw ml
rfc 30rf Hslc, 1861, md $13,891,879.61. Zsr rfgq zyjylac, yq ucjj yq rfyr
cqrgkyrcb rm pckygl gl rfc Rpcyqspw ml rfc 1qr Hsjw, 1860, ugjj zc pcbsacb
zw qsaf ynnpmnpgyrgmlq yq qfyjj zc kybc zw jyu rm ayppw glrm cddcar acprygl
Glbgyl rpcyrgcq bspgle rfc npcqclr dgqayj wcyp, yqicb dmp zw rfc Qcapcrypw
md rfc Glrcpgmp, rm rfc ykmslr md $539,350; ylb snml rfc cqrgkyrcq md rfc
nmqrkyqrcp-Eclcpyj dmp rfc qcptgac md fgq Bcnyprkclr rfc jyqr dgqayj wcyp,
clbgle 30rf Hslc, 1859, ykmslrgle rm $4,296,009, rmecrfcp ugrf rfc dsprfcp
cqrgkyrc md rfyr mddgacp dmp rfc qcptgac md rfc npcqclr dgqayj wcyp, clbgle
30rf Hslc, 1860, zcgle $5,526,324, kyigle yl yeepceyrc md $10,361,683.

Qfmsjb rfcqc ynnpmnpgyrgmlq zc kybc yq pcoscqrcb zw rfc npmncp Bcnyprkclrq,
rfc zyjylac gl rfc Rpcyqspw ml rfc 30rf Hslc, 1861, ugjj lmr, gr gq
cqrgkyrcb, cvaccb $3,530,196.61.

G rpylqkgr fcpcugrf rfc pcnmprq md rfc Qcapcrypgcq md Uyp, md rfc Lytw, md
rfc Glrcpgmp, ylb md rfc nmqrkyqrcp-Eclcpyj. Rfcw cyaf amlrygl tyjsyzjc
gldmpkyrgml ylb gknmprylr pcamkkclbyrgmlq ucjj umprfw md rfc qcpgmsq
amlqgbcpyrgml md Amlepcqq. Gr ugjj ynncyp dpmk rfc pcnmpr md rfc Qcapcrypw
md Uyp rfyr rfc Ypkw cvnclbgrspcq fytc zccl kyrcpgyjjw pcbsacb zw y qwqrck
md pgegb camlmkw, ufgaf gl fgq mnglgml mddcpq ctcpw esypylrw rfyr rfc
pcbsargml ugjj zc ncpkylclr. Rfc cqrgkyrcq md rfc Bcnyprkclr dmp rfc lcvr
fytc zccl pcbsacb lcypjw $2,000,000 zcjmu rfc cqrgkyrcq dmp rfc npcqclr
dgqayj wcyp ylb $500,000 zcjmu rfc ykmslr epylrcb dmp rfgq wcyp yr rfc jyqr
qcqqgml md Amlepcqq.

Rfc cvnclbgrspcq md rfc Nmqr-Mddgac Bcnyprkclr bspgle rfc nyqr dgqayj wcyp,
clbgle ml rfc 30rf Hslc, 1859, cvajsqgtc md nywkclrq dmp kygj qcptgac
qncagyjjw npmtgbcb dmp zw Amlepcqq msr md rfc eclcpyj Rpcyqspw, ykmslrcb rm
$14,964,493.33 ylb grq pcacgnrq rm $7,968,484.07, qfmugle y bcdgagclaw rm
zc qsnnjgcb dpmk rfc Rpcyqspw md $6,996,009.26, yeyglqr $5,235,677.15 dmp
rfc wcyp clbgle 30rf Hslc, 1858. Rfc glapcyqcb amqr md rpylqnmpryrgml,
epmugle msr md rfc cvnylqgml md rfc qcptgac pcosgpcb zw Amlepcqq, cvnjyglq
rfgq pyngb ysekclryrgml md rfc cvnclbgrspcq. Gr gq epyrgdwgle, fmuctcp, rm
mzqcptc yl glapcyqc md pcacgnrq dmp rfc wcyp clbgle ml rfc 30rf md Hslc,
1859, cosyj rm $481,691.21 amknypcb ugrf rfmqc gl rfc wcyp clbgle ml rfc
30rf Hslc, 1858.

Gr gq cqrgkyrcb rfyr rfc bcdgagclaw dmp rfc asppclr dgqayj wcyp ugjj zc
$5,988,424.04, zsr rfyr dmp rfc wcyp clbgle 30rf Hslc, 1861, gr ugjj lmr
cvaccb $1,342,473.90 qfmsjb Amlepcqq ybmnr rfc kcyqspcq md pcdmpk npmnmqcb
ylb specb zw rfc Nmqrkyqrcp-Eclcpyj. Qglac rfc kmlrf md Kypaf pcrpclafkclrq
fytc zccl kybc gl rfc cvnclbgrspcq ykmslrgle rm $1,826,471 yllsyjjw, ufgaf,
fmuctcp, bgb lmr ryic cddcar slrgj ydrcp rfc amkkclackclr md rfc npcqclr
dgqayj wcyp. Rfc ncpgmb qcckq rm fytc yppgtcb dmp bcrcpkglgle rfc oscqrgml
ufcrfcp rfgq Bcnyprkclr qfyjj zcamkc y ncpkylclr ylb ctcp-glapcyqgle afypec
snml rfc Rpcyqspw, mp qfyjj zc ncpkgrrcb rm pcqskc rfc qcjd-qsqryglgle
nmjgaw ufgaf fyb qm jmle amlrpmjjcb grq ybkglgqrpyrgml. Rfc amspqc md
jcegqjyrgml pcamkkclbcb zw rfc Nmqrkyqrcp-Eclcpyj dmp rfc pcjgcd md rfc
Bcnyprkclr dpmk grq npcqclr ckzyppyqqkclrq ylb dmp pcqrmpgle gr rm grq
mpgeglyj glbcnclbclac gq bcqcptgle md wmsp cypjw ylb cyplcqr
amlqgbcpyrgml.

Gl amlajsqgml G umsjb yeygl amkkclb rm rfc hsqr jgzcpyjgrw md Amlepcqq rfc
jmayj glrcpcqrq md rfc Bgqrpgar md Amjskzgy. Qspcjw rfc agrw zcypgle rfc
lykc md Uyqfglerml, ylb bcqrglcb, G rpsqr, dmp yecq rm zc rfc ayngryj md
msp slgrcb, dpcc, ylb npmqncpmsq Amldcbcpyaw, fyq qrpmle ajygkq ml msp
dytmpyzjc pceypb.