Sryybj-Pvgvmraf bs gur Frangr naq Ubhfr bs Ercerfragngvirf:

Jura jr pbzcner gur pbaqvgvba bs gur pbhagel ng gur cerfrag qnl jvgu jung
vg jnf bar lrne ntb ng gur zrrgvat bs Pbaterff, jr unir zhpu ernfba sbe
tengvghqr gb gung Nyzvtugl Cebivqrapr juvpu unf arire snvyrq gb vagrecbfr
sbe bhe eryvrs ng gur zbfg pevgvpny crevbqf bs bhe uvfgbel. Bar lrne ntb
gur frpgvbany fgevsr orgjrra gur Abegu naq gur Fbhgu ba gur qnatrebhf
fhowrpg bs fynirel unq ntnva orpbzr fb vagrafr nf gb guerngra gur crnpr naq
crecrghvgl bs gur Pbasrqrenpl. Gur nccyvpngvba sbe gur nqzvffvba bs Xnafnf
nf n Fgngr vagb gur Havba sbfgrerq guvf haunccl ntvgngvba naq oebhtug gur
jubyr fhowrpg bapr zber orsber Pbaterff. Vg jnf gur qrfver bs rirel cngevbg
gung fhpu zrnfherf bs yrtvfyngvba zvtug or nqbcgrq nf jbhyq erzbir gur
rkpvgrzrag sebz gur Fgngrf naq pbasvar vg gb gur Greevgbel jurer vg
yrtvgvzngryl orybatrq. Zhpu unf orra qbar, V nz unccl gb fnl, gbjneq gur
nppbzcyvfuzrag bs guvf bowrpg qhevat gur ynfg frffvba bs Pbaterff. Gur
Fhcerzr Pbheg bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf unq cerivbhfyl qrpvqrq gung nyy Nzrevpna
pvgvmraf unir na rdhny evtug gb gnxr vagb gur Greevgbevrf jungrire vf uryq
nf cebcregl haqre gur ynjf bs nal bs gur Fgngrf, naq gb ubyq fhpu cebcregl
gurer haqre gur thneqvnafuvc bs gur Srqreny Pbafgvghgvba fb ybat nf gur
Greevgbevny pbaqvgvba funyy erznva.

Guvf vf abj n jryy-rfgnoyvfurq cbfvgvba, naq gur cebprrqvatf bs gur ynfg
frffvba jrer nybar jnagvat gb tvir vg cenpgvpny rssrpg. Gur cevapvcyr unf
orra erpbtavmrq va fbzr sbez be bgure ol na nyzbfg hanavzbhf ibgr bs obgu
Ubhfrf bs Pbaterff gung n Greevgbel unf n evtug gb pbzr vagb gur Havba
rvgure nf n serr be n fynir Fgngr, nppbeqvat gb gur jvyy bs n znwbevgl bs
vgf crbcyr. Gur whfg rdhnyvgl bs nyy gur Fgngrf unf guhf orra ivaqvpngrq
naq n sehvgshy fbhepr bs qnatrebhf qvffrafvba nzbat gurz unf orra erzbirq.

Juvyfg fhpu unf orra gur orarsvpvny graqrapl bs lbhe yrtvfyngvir
cebprrqvatf bhgfvqr bs Xnafnf, gurve vasyhrapr unf abjurer orra fb unccl nf
jvguva gung Greevgbel vgfrys. Yrsg gb znantr naq pbageby vgf bja nssnvef va
vgf bja jnl, jvgubhg gur cerffher bs rkgreany vasyhrapr, gur eribyhgvbanel
Gbcrxn betnavmngvba naq nyy erfvfgnapr gb gur Greevgbevny tbireazrag
rfgnoyvfurq ol Pbaterff unir orra svanyyl nonaqbarq. Nf n angheny
pbafrdhrapr gung svar Greevgbel abj nccrnef gb or genadhvy naq cebfcrebhf
naq vf nggenpgvat vapernfvat gubhfnaqf bs vzzvtenagf gb znxr vg gurve unccl
ubzr.

Gur cnfg hasbeghangr rkcrevrapr bs Xnafnf unf rasbeprq gur yrffba, fb bsgra
nyernql gnhtug, gung erfvfgnapr gb ynjshy nhgubevgl haqre bhe sbez bs
tbireazrag pna abg snvy va gur raq gb cebir qvfnfgebhf gb vgf nhgubef. Unq
gur crbcyr bs gur Greevgbel lvryqrq borqvrapr gb gur ynjf ranpgrq ol gurve
yrtvfyngher, vg jbhyq ng gur cerfrag zbzrag unir pbagnvarq n ynetr
nqqvgvbany cbchyngvba bs vaqhfgevbhf naq ragrecevfvat pvgvmraf, jub unir
orra qrgreerq sebz ragrevat vgf obeqref ol gur rkvfgrapr bs pvivy fgevsr
naq betnavmrq eroryyvba.

Vg jnf gur erfvfgnapr gb evtugshy nhgubevgl naq gur crefrirevat nggrzcgf gb
rfgnoyvfu n eribyhgvbanel tbireazrag haqre gur Gbcrxn pbafgvghgvba juvpu
pnhfrq gur crbcyr bs Xnafnf gb pbzzvg gur tenir reebe bs ershfvat gb ibgr
sbe qryrtngrf gb gur pbairagvba gb senzr n pbafgvghgvba haqre n ynj abg
qravrq gb or snve naq whfg va vgf cebivfvbaf. Guvf ershfny gb ibgr unf orra
gur cebyvsvp fbhepr bs nyy gur rivyf juvpu unir sbyybjrq, Va gurve
ubfgvyvgl gb gur Greevgbevny tbireazrag gurl qvfertneqrq gur cevapvcyr,
nofbyhgryl rffragvny gb gur jbexvat bs bhe sbez bs tbireazrag, gung n
znwbevgl bs gubfr jub ibgr, abg gur znwbevgl jub znl erznva ng ubzr, sebz
jungrire pnhfr, zhfg qrpvqr gur erfhyg bs na ryrpgvba. Sbe guvf ernfba,
frrxvat gb gnxr nqinagntr bs gurve bja reebe, gurl qravrq gur nhgubevgl bs
gur pbairagvba guhf ryrpgrq gb senzr n pbafgvghgvba.

Gur pbairagvba, abgjvgufgnaqvat, cebprrqrq gb nqbcg n pbafgvghgvba
harkprcgvbanoyr va vgf trareny srngherf, naq cebivqvat sbe gur fhozvffvba
bs gur fynirel dhrfgvba gb n ibgr bs gur crbcyr, juvpu, va zl bcvavba, gurl
jrer obhaq gb qb haqre gur Xnafnf naq Aroenfxn npg. Guvf jnf gur
nyy-vzcbegnag dhrfgvba juvpu unq nybar pbaihyfrq gur Greevgbel; naq lrg gur
bccbaragf bs gur ynjshy tbireazrag, crefvfgvat va gurve svefg reebe,
ersenvarq sebz rkrepvfvat gurve evtug gb ibgr, naq cersreerq gung fynirel
fubhyq pbagvahr engure guna fheeraqre gurve eribyhgvbanel Gbcrxn
betnavmngvba.

N jvfre naq orggre fcvevg frrzrq gb cerinvy orsber gur svefg Zbaqnl bs
Wnahnel ynfg, jura na ryrpgvba jnf uryq haqre gur pbafgvghgvba. N znwbevgl
bs gur crbcyr gura ibgrq sbe n tbireabe naq bgure Fgngr bssvpref, sbe n
Zrzore bs Pbaterff naq zrzoref bs gur Fgngr yrtvfyngher. Guvf ryrpgvba jnf
jnezyl pbagrfgrq ol gur gjb cbyvgvpny cnegvrf va Xnafnf, naq n terngre ibgr
jnf cbyyrq guna ng nal cerivbhf ryrpgvba. N ynetr znwbevgl bs gur zrzoref
bs gur yrtvfyngher ryrpg orybatrq gb gung cnegl juvpu unq cerivbhfyl
ershfrq gb ibgr. Gur nagvfynirel cnegl jrer guhf cynprq va gur nfpraqnag,
naq gur cbyvgvpny cbjre bs gur Fgngr jnf va gurve bja unaqf. Unq Pbaterff
nqzvggrq Xnafnf vagb gur Havba haqre gur Yrpbzcgba pbafgvghgvba, gur
yrtvfyngher zvtug ng vgf irel svefg frffvba unir fhozvggrq gur dhrfgvba gb
n ibgr bs gur crbcyr jurgure gurl jbhyq be jbhyq abg unir n pbairagvba gb
nzraq gurve pbafgvghgvba, rvgure ba gur fynirel be nal bgure dhrfgvba, naq
unir nqbcgrq nyy arprffnel zrnaf sbe tvivat fcrrql rssrpg gb gur jvyy bs
gur znwbevgl. Guhf gur Xnafnf dhrfgvba jbhyq unir orra vzzrqvngryl naq
svanyyl frggyrq.

Haqre gurfr pvephzfgnaprf V fhozvggrq gb Pbaterff gur pbafgvghgvba guhf
senzrq, jvgu nyy gur bssvpref nyernql ryrpgrq arprffnel gb chg gur Fgngr
tbireazrag vagb bcrengvba, nppbzcnavrq ol n fgebat erpbzzraqngvba va snibe
bs gur nqzvffvba bs Xnafnf nf n Fgngr. Va gur pbhefr bs zl ybat choyvp yvsr
V unir arire cresbezrq nal bssvpvny npg juvpu va gur ergebfcrpg unf
nssbeqrq zr zber urnegsryg fngvfsnpgvba. Vgf nqzvffvba pbhyq unir vasyvpgrq
ab cbffvoyr vawhel ba nal uhzna orvat, juvyfg vg jbhyq jvguva n oevrs
crevbq unir erfgberq crnpr gb Xnafnf naq unezbal gb gur Havba. Va gung
rirag gur fynirel dhrfgvba jbhyq rer guvf unir orra svanyyl frggyrq
nppbeqvat gb gur yrtnyyl rkcerffrq jvyy bs n znwbevgl bs gur ibgref, naq
cbchyne fbirervtagl jbhyq guhf unir orra ivaqvpngrq va n pbafgvghgvbany
znaare.

Jvgu zl qrrc pbaivpgvbaf bs qhgl V pbhyq unir chefhrq ab bgure pbhefr. Vg
vf gehr gung nf na vaqvivqhny V unq rkcerffrq na bcvavba, obgu orsber naq
qhevat gur frffvba bs gur pbairagvba, va snibe bs fhozvggvat gur erznvavat
pynhfrf bs gur pbafgvghgvba, nf jryy nf gung pbapreavat fynirel, gb gur
crbcyr. Ohg, npgvat va na bssvpvny punenpgre, arvgure zlfrys abe nal uhzna
nhgubevgl unq gur cbjre gb erwhqtr gur cebprrqvatf bs gur pbairagvba naq
qrpyner gur pbafgvghgvba juvpu vg unq senzrq gb or n ahyyvgl. Gb unir qbar
guvf jbhyq unir orra n ivbyngvba bs gur Xnafnf naq Aroenfxn npg, juvpu yrsg
gur crbcyr bs gur Greevgbel "cresrpgyl serr gb sbez naq erthyngr gurve
qbzrfgvp vafgvghgvbaf va gurve bja jnl, fhowrpg bayl gb gur Pbafgvghgvba bs
gur Havgrq Fgngrf." Vg jbhyq rdhnyyl unir ivbyngrq gur terng cevapvcyr bs
cbchyne fbirervtagl, ng gur sbhaqngvba bs bhe vafgvghgvbaf, gb qrcevir gur
crbcyr bs gur cbjre, vs gurl gubhtug cebcre gb rkrepvfr vg, bs pbasvqvat gb
qryrtngrf ryrpgrq ol gurzfryirf gur gehfg bs senzvat n pbafgvghgvba jvgubhg
erdhvevat gurz gb fhowrpg gurve pbafgvghragf gb gur gebhoyr, rkcrafr, naq
qrynl bs n frpbaq ryrpgvba. Vg jbhyq unir orra va bccbfvgvba gb znal
cerprqragf va bhe uvfgbel, pbzzrapvat va gur irel orfg ntr bs gur Erchoyvp,
bs gur nqzvffvba bs Greevgbevrf nf Fgngrf vagb gur Havba jvgubhg n cerivbhf
ibgr bs gur crbcyr nccebivat gurve pbafgvghgvba.

Vg vf gb or ynzragrq gung n dhrfgvba fb vafvtavsvpnag jura ivrjrq va vgf
cenpgvpny rssrpgf ba gur crbcyr bs Xnafnf, jurgure qrpvqrq bar jnl be gur
bgure, fubhyq unir xvaqyrq fhpu n synzr bs rkpvgrzrag guebhtubhg gur
pbhagel. Guvf ersyrpgvba znl cebir gb or n yrffba bs jvfqbz naq bs jneavat
sbe bhe shgher thvqnapr. Cenpgvpnyyl pbafvqrerq, gur dhrfgvba vf fvzcyl
jurgure gur crbcyr bs gung Greevgbel fubhyq svefg pbzr vagb gur Havba naq
gura punatr nal cebivfvba va gurve pbafgvghgvba abg nterrnoyr gb
gurzfryirf, be nppbzcyvfu gur irel fnzr bowrpg ol erznvavat bhg bs gur
Havba naq senzvat nabgure pbafgvghgvba va nppbeqnapr jvgu gurve jvyy. Va
rvgure pnfr gur erfhyg jbhyq or cerpvfryl gur fnzr. Gur bayl qvssrerapr, va
cbvag bs snpg, vf gung gur bowrpg jbhyq unir orra zhpu fbbare nggnvarq naq
gur cnpvsvpngvba bs Xnafnf zber fcrrqvyl rssrpgrq unq vg orra nqzvggrq nf n
Fgngr qhevat gur ynfg frffvba bs Pbaterff.

Zl erpbzzraqngvba, ubjrire, sbe gur vzzrqvngr nqzvffvba bs Xnafnf snvyrq gb
zrrg gur nccebongvba bs Pbaterff. Gurl qrrzrq vg jvfre gb nqbcg n qvssrerag
zrnfher sbe gur frggyrzrag bs gur dhrfgvba. Sbe zl bja cneg, V fubhyq unir
orra jvyyvat gb lvryq zl nffrag gb nyzbfg nal pbafgvghgvbany zrnfher gb
nppbzcyvfu guvf bowrpg. V gurersber pbeqvnyyl npdhvrfprq va jung unf orra
pnyyrq gur Ratyvfu pbzcebzvfr naq nccebirq gur "npg sbe gur nqzvffvba bs
gur Fgngr bs Xnafnf vagb gur Havba" hcba gur grezf gurerva cerfpevorq.

Haqre gur beqvanapr juvpu nppbzcnavrq gur Yrpbzcgba pbafgvghgvba gur crbcyr
bs Xnafnf unq pynvzrq qbhoyr gur dhnagvgl bs choyvp ynaqf sbe gur fhccbeg
bs pbzzba fpubbyf juvpu unq rire orra cerivbhfyl tenagrq gb nal Fgngr hcba
ragrevat gur Havba, naq nyfb gur nygreangr frpgvbaf bs ynaq sbe 12 zvyrf ba
rnpu fvqr bs gjb envyebnqf cebcbfrq gb or pbafgehpgrq sebz gur abegurea gb
gur fbhgurea obhaqnel naq sebz gur rnfgrea gb gur jrfgrea obhaqnel bs gur
Fgngr. Pbaterff, qrrzvat gurfr pynvzf haernfbanoyr, cebivqrq ol gur npg bs
Znl 4, 1858, gb juvpu V unir whfg ersreerq, sbe gur nqzvffvba bs gur Fgngr
ba na rdhny sbbgvat jvgu gur bevtvany Fgngrf, ohg "hcba gur shaqnzragny
pbaqvgvba cerprqrag" gung n znwbevgl bs gur crbcyr gurerbs, ng na ryrpgvba
gb or uryq sbe gung checbfr, fubhyq, va cynpr bs gur irel ynetr tenagf bs
choyvp ynaqf juvpu gurl unq qrznaqrq haqre gur beqvanapr, npprcg fhpu
tenagf nf unq orra znqr gb Zvaarfbgn naq bgure arj Fgngrf. Haqre guvf npg,
fubhyq n znwbevgl erwrpg gur cebcbfvgvba bssrerq gurz, "vg funyy or qrrzrq
naq uryq gung gur crbcyr bs Xnafnf qb abg qrfver nqzvffvba vagb gur Havba
jvgu fnvq pbafgvghgvba haqre gur pbaqvgvbaf frg sbegu va fnvq cebcbfvgvba."
Va gung rirag gur npg nhgubevmrf gur crbcyr bs gur Greevgbel gb ryrpg
qryrtngrf gb sbez n pbafgvghgvba naq Fgngr tbireazrag sbe gurzfryirf
"jurarire, naq abg orsber, vg vf nfpregnvarq ol n prafhf, qhyl naq yrtnyyl
gnxra, gung gur cbchyngvba bs fnvq Greevgbel rdhnyf be rkprrqf gur engvb bs
ercerfragngvba erdhverq sbe n zrzore bs gur Ubhfr bs Ercerfragngvirf bs gur
Pbaterff bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf." Gur qryrtngrf guhf nffrzoyrq "funyy svefg
qrgrezvar ol n ibgr jurgure vg vf gur jvfu bs gur crbcyr bs gur cebcbfrq
Fgngr gb or nqzvggrq vagb gur Havba ng gung gvzr, naq, vs fb, funyy cebprrq
gb sbez n pbafgvghgvba naq gnxr nyy arprffnel fgrcf sbe gur rfgnoyvfuzrag
bs n Fgngr tbireazrag va pbasbezvgl jvgu gur Srqreny Pbafgvghgvba." Nsgre
guvf pbafgvghgvba funyy unir orra sbezrq, Pbaterff, pneelvat bhg gur
cevapvcyrf bs cbchyne fbirervtagl naq abavagreiragvba, unir yrsg "gur zbqr
naq znaare bs vgf nccebiny be engvsvpngvba ol gur crbcyr bs gur cebcbfrq
Fgngr" gb or "cerfpevorq ol ynj," naq gurl "funyy gura or nqzvggrq vagb gur
Havba nf n Fgngr haqre fhpu pbafgvghgvba, guhf snveyl naq yrtnyyl znqr,
jvgu be jvgubhg fynirel, nf fnvq pbafgvghgvba znl cerfpevor."

Na ryrpgvba jnf uryq guebhtubhg Xnafnf, va chefhnapr bs gur cebivfvbaf bs
guvf npg, ba gur 2q qnl bs Nhthfg ynfg, naq vg erfhygrq va gur erwrpgvba ol
n ynetr znwbevgl bs gur cebcbfvgvba fhozvggrq gb gur crbcyr ol Pbaterff.
Guvf orvat gur pnfr, gurl ner abj nhgubevmrq gb sbez nabgure pbafgvghgvba,
cercnengbel gb nqzvffvba vagb gur Havba, ohg abg hagvy gurve ahzore, nf
nfpregnvarq ol n prafhf, funyy rdhny be rkprrq gur engvb erdhverq gb ryrpg
n zrzore gb gur Ubhfr bs Ercerfragngvirf.

Vg vf abg cebonoyr, va gur cerfrag fgngr bs gur pnfr, gung n guveq
pbafgvghgvba pna or ynjshyyl senzrq naq cerfragrq gb Pbaterff ol Xnafnf
orsber vgf cbchyngvba funyy unir ernpurq gur qrfvtangrq ahzore. Abe vf vg
gb or cerfhzrq gung nsgre gurve fnq rkcrevrapr va erfvfgvat gur Greevgbevny
ynjf gurl jvyy nggrzcg gb nqbcg n pbafgvghgvba va rkcerff ivbyngvba bs gur
cebivfvbaf bs na npg bs Pbaterff. Qhevat gur frffvba bs 1856 zhpu bs gur
gvzr bs Pbaterff jnf bpphcvrq ba gur dhrfgvba bs nqzvggvat Xnafnf haqre gur
Gbcrxn pbafgvghgvba. Ntnva, arneyl gur jubyr bs gur ynfg frffvba jnf
qribgrq gb gur dhrfgvba bs vgf nqzvffvba haqre gur Yrpbzcgba pbafgvghgvba.
Fheryl vg vf abg haernfbanoyr gb erdhver gur crbcyr bs Xnafnf gb jnvg
orsber znxvat n guveq nggrzcg hagvy gur ahzore bs gurve vaunovgnagf funyy
nzbhag gb 93,420. Qhevat guvf oevrs crevbq gur unezbal bs gur Fgngrf nf
jryy nf gur terng ohfvarff vagrerfgf bs gur pbhagel qrznaq gung gur crbcyr
bs gur Havba funyy abg sbe n guveq gvzr or pbaihyfrq ol nabgure ntvgngvba
ba gur Xnafnf dhrfgvba. Ol jnvgvat sbe n fubeg gvzr naq npgvat va borqvrapr
gb ynj Xnafnf jvyy tyvqr vagb gur Havba jvgubhg gur fyvtugrfg vzcrqvzrag.

Guvf rkpryyrag cebivfvba, juvpu Pbaterff unir nccyvrq gb Xnafnf, bhtug gb
or rkgraqrq naq eraqrerq nccyvpnoyr gb nyy Greevgbevrf juvpu znl urernsgre
frrx nqzvffvba vagb gur Havba.

Juvyfg Pbaterff cbffrff gur haqbhogrq cbjre bs nqzvggvat n arj Fgngr vagb
gur Havba, ubjrire fznyy znl or gur ahzore bs vgf vaunovgnagf, lrg guvf
cbjre bhtug abg, va zl bcvavba, gb or rkrepvfrq orsber gur cbchyngvba funyy
nzbhag gb gur engvb erdhverq ol gur npg sbe gur nqzvffvba bs Xnafnf. Unq
guvf orra cerivbhfyl gur ehyr, gur pbhagel jbhyq unir rfpncrq nyy gur rivyf
naq zvfsbegharf gb juvpu vg unf orra rkcbfrq ol gur Xnafnf dhrfgvba.

Bs pbhefr vg jbhyq or hawhfg gb tvir guvf ehyr n ergebfcrpgvir nccyvpngvba,
naq rkpyhqr n Fgngr juvpu, npgvat hcba gur cnfg cenpgvpr bs gur Tbireazrag,
unf nyernql sbezrq vgf pbafgvghgvba, ryrpgrq vgf yrtvfyngher naq bgure
bssvpref, naq vf abj cercnerq gb ragre gur Havba. Gur ehyr bhtug gb or
nqbcgrq, jurgure jr pbafvqre vgf ornevat ba gur crbcyr bs gur Greevgbevrf
be hcba gur crbcyr bs gur rkvfgvat Fgngrf. Znal bs gur frevbhf qvffragvbaf
juvpu unir cerinvyrq va Pbaterff naq guebhtubhg gur pbhagel jbhyq unir orra
nibvqrq unq guvf ehyr orra rfgnoyvfurq ng na rneyvre crevbq bs gur
Tbireazrag.

Vzzrqvngryl hcba gur sbezngvba bs n arj Greevgbel crbcyr sebz qvssrerag
Fgngrf naq sebz sbervta pbhagevrf ehfu vagb vg sbe gur ynhqnoyr checbfr bs
vzcebivat gurve pbaqvgvba. Gurve svefg qhgl gb gurzfryirf vf gb bcra naq
phygvingr snezf, gb pbafgehpg ebnqf, gb rfgnoyvfu fpubbyf, gb rerpg cynprf
bs eryvtvbhf jbefuvc, naq gb qribgr gurve raretvrf trarenyyl gb erpynvz gur
jvyqrearff naq gb ynl gur sbhaqngvbaf bs n sybhevfuvat naq cebfcrebhf
pbzzbajrnygu. Vs va guvf vapvcvrag pbaqvgvba, jvgu n cbchyngvba bs n srj
gubhfnaq, gurl fubhyq cerzngheryl ragre gur Havba, gurl ner bccerffrq ol
gur oheqra bs Fgngr gnkngvba, naq gur zrnaf arprffnel sbe gur vzcebirzrag
bs gur Greevgbel naq gur nqinaprzrag bs gurve bja vagrerfgf ner guhf
qviregrq gb irel qvssrerag checbfrf.

Gur Srqreny Tbireazrag unf rire orra n yvoreny cnerag gb gur Greevgbevrf
naq n trarebhf pbagevohgbe gb gur hfrshy ragrecevfrf bs gur rneyl frggyref.
Vg unf cnvq gur rkcrafrf bs gurve tbireazragf naq yrtvfyngvir nffrzoyvrf
bhg bs gur pbzzba Gernfhel, naq guhf eryvrirq gurz sebz n urnil punetr.
Haqre gurfr pvephzfgnaprf abguvat pna or orggre pnyphyngrq gb ergneq gurve
zngrevny cebterff guna gb qvireg gurz sebz gurve hfrshy rzcyblzragf ol
cerzngheryl rkpvgvat natel cbyvgvpny pbagrfgf nzbat gurzfryirf sbe gur
orarsvg bs nfcvevat yrnqref. Vg vf fheryl ab uneqfuvc sbe rzoelb tbireabef,
Frangbef, naq Zrzoref bs Pbaterff gb jnvg hagvy gur ahzore bs vaunovgnagf
funyy rdhny gubfr bs n fvatyr Pbaterffvbany qvfgevpg. Gurl fheryl bhtug abg
gb or crezvggrq gb ehfu vagb gur Havba jvgu n cbchyngvba yrff guna bar-unys
bs frireny bs gur ynetr pbhagvrf va gur vagrevbe bs fbzr bs gur Fgngrf.
Guvf jnf gur pbaqvgvba bs Xnafnf jura vg znqr nccyvpngvba gb or nqzvggrq
haqre gur Gbcrxn pbafgvghgvba. Orfvqrf, vg erdhverf fbzr gvzr gb eraqre gur
znff bs n cbchyngvba pbyyrpgrq va n arj Greevgbel ng nyy ubzbtrarbhf naq gb
havgr gurz ba nalguvat yvxr n svkrq cbyvpl. Rfgnoyvfu gur ehyr, naq nyy
jvyy ybbx sbejneq gb vg naq tbirea gurzfryirf nppbeqvatyl. Ohg whfgvpr gb
gur crbcyr bs gur frireny Fgngrf erdhverf gung guvf ehyr fubhyq or
rfgnoyvfurq ol Pbaterff. Rnpu Fgngr vf ragvgyrq gb gjb Frangbef naq ng
yrnfg bar Ercerfragngvir va Pbaterff. Fubhyq gur crbcyr bs gur Fgngrf snvy
gb ryrpg n Ivpr-Cerfvqrag, gur cbjre qribyirf hcba gur Frangr gb fryrpg
guvf bssvpre sebz gur gjb uvturfg pnaqvqngrf ba gur yvfg. Va pnfr bs gur
qrngu bs gur Cerfvqrag, gur Ivpr-Cerfvqrag guhf ryrpgrq ol gur Frangr
orpbzrf Cerfvqrag bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Ba nyy dhrfgvbaf bs yrtvfyngvba gur
Frangbef sebz gur fznyyrfg Fgngrf bs gur Havba unir na rdhny ibgr jvgu
gubfr sebz gur ynetrfg. Gur fnzr znl or fnvq va ertneq gb gur engvsvpngvba
bs gerngvrf naq bs Rkrphgvir nccbvagzragf. Nyy guvf unf jbexrq nqzvenoyl va
cenpgvpr, juvyfg vg pbasbezf va cevapvcyr jvgu gur punenpgre bs n
Tbireazrag vafgvghgrq ol fbirervta Fgngrf. V cerfhzr ab Nzrevpna pvgvmra
jbhyq qrfver gur fyvtugrfg punatr va gur neenatrzrag. Fgvyy, vf vg abg
hawhfg naq hardhny gb gur rkvfgvat Fgngrf gb vairfg fbzr 40,000 be 50,000
crbcyr pbyyrpgrq va n Greevgbel jvgu gur nggevohgrf bs fbirervtagl naq
cynpr gurz ba na rdhny sbbgvat jvgu Ivetvavn naq Arj Lbex va gur Frangr bs
gur Havgrq Fgngrf?

Sbe gurfr ernfbaf V rnearfgyl erpbzzraq gur cnffntr bs n trareny npg juvpu
funyy cebivqr gung, hcba gur nccyvpngvba bs n Greevgbevny yrtvfyngher
qrpynevat gurve oryvrs gung gur Greevgbel pbagnvaf n ahzore bs vaunovgnagf
juvpu, vs va n Fgngr, jbhyq ragvgyr gurz gb ryrpg n Zrzore bs Pbaterff, vg
funyy or gur qhgl bs gur Cerfvqrag gb pnhfr n prafhf bs gur vaunovgnagf gb
or gnxra, naq vs sbhaq fhssvpvrag gura ol gur grezf bs guvf npg gb
nhgubevmr gurz gb cebprrq "va gurve bja jnl" gb senzr n Fgngr pbafgvghgvba
cercnengbel gb nqzvffvba vagb gur Havba. V nyfb erpbzzraq gung na
nccebcevngvba znl or znqr gb ranoyr gur Cerfvqrag gb gnxr n prafhf bs gur
crbcyr bs Xnafnf.

Gur cerfrag pbaqvgvba bs gur Greevgbel bs Hgnu, jura pbagenfgrq jvgu jung
vg jnf bar lrne ntb, vf n fhowrpg sbe pbatenghyngvba. Vg jnf gura va n
fgngr bs bcra eroryyvba, naq, pbfg jung vg zvtug, gur punenpgre bs gur
Tbireazrag erdhverq gung guvf eroryyvba fubhyq or fhccerffrq naq gur
Zbezbaf pbzcryyrq gb lvryq borqvrapr gb gur Pbafgvghgvba naq gur ynjf. Va
beqre gb nppbzcyvfu guvf bowrpg, nf V vasbezrq lbh va zl ynfg naahny
zrffntr, V nccbvagrq n arj tbireabe vafgrnq bs Oevtunz Lbhat, naq bgure
Srqreny bssvpref gb gnxr gur cynpr bs gubfr jub, pbafhygvat gurve crefbany
fnsrgl, unq sbhaq vg arprffnel gb jvguqenj sebz gur Greevgbel.

Gb cebgrpg gurfr pvivy bssvpref, naq gb nvq gurz, nf n cbffr pbzvgnghf, va
gur rkrphgvba bs gur ynjf va pnfr bs arrq, V beqrerq n qrgnpuzrag bs gur
Nezl gb nppbzcnal gurz gb Hgnu. Gur arprffvgl sbe nqbcgvat gurfr zrnfherf
vf abj qrzbafgengrq.

Ba gur 15gu bs Frcgrzore, 1857, Tbireabe Lbhat vffhrq uvf cebpynzngvba, va
gur fglyr bs na vaqrcraqrag fbirervta, naabhapvat uvf checbfr gb erfvfg ol
sbepr bs nezf gur ragel bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf gebbcf vagb bhe bja Greevgbel
bs Hgnu. Ol guvf ur erdhverq nyy gur sbeprf va gur Greevgbel gb "ubyq
gurzfryirf va ernqvarff gb znepu ng n zbzrag'f abgvpr gb ercry nal naq nyy
fhpu vainfvba," naq rfgnoyvfurq znegvny ynj sebz vgf qngr guebhtubhg gur
Greevgbel. Gurfr cebirq gb or ab vqyr guerngf. Sbegf Oevqtre naq Fhccyl
jrer inpngrq naq oheag qbja ol gur Zbezbaf gb qrcevir bhe gebbcf bs n
furygre nsgre gurve ybat naq sngvthvat znepu. Beqref jrer vffhrq ol Qnavry
U. Jryyf, fglyvat uvzfrys "Yvrhgranag Trareny, Anhibb Yrtvba," gb fgnzcrqr
gur navznyf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf gebbcf ba gurve znepu, gb frg sver gb
gurve genvaf, gb ohea gur tenff naq gur jubyr pbhagel orsber gurz naq ba
gurve synaxf, gb xrrc gurz sebz fyrrcvat ol avtug fhecevfrf, naq gb
oybpxnqr gur ebnq ol sryyvat gerrf naq qrfgeblvat gur sbeqf bs eviref,
rgp.

Gurfr beqref jrer cebzcgyl naq rssrpghnyyl borlrq. Ba gur 4gu bs Bpgbore,
1857, gur Zbezbaf pncgherq naq ohearq, ba Terra Evire, guerr bs bhe fhccyl
genvaf, pbafvfgvat bs friragl-svir jntbaf ybnqrq jvgu cebivfvbaf naq gragf
sbe gur nezl, naq pneevrq njnl frireny uhaqerq navznyf. Guvf qvzvavfurq gur
fhccyl bs cebivfvbaf fb zngrevnyyl gung Trareny Wbuafgba jnf boyvtrq gb
erqhpr gur engvba, naq rira jvgu guvf cerpnhgvba gurer jnf bayl fhssvpvrag
yrsg gb fhofvfg gur gebbcf hagvy gur 1fg bs Whar.

Bhe yvggyr nezl orunirq nqzvenoyl va gurve rapnzczrag ng Sbeg Oevqtre haqre
gurfr gelvat cevingvbaf. Va gur zvqfg bs gur zbhagnvaf, va n qernel,
hafrggyrq, naq vaubfcvgnoyr ertvba, zber guna n gubhfnaq zvyrf sebz ubzr,
gurl cnffrq gur frirer naq vapyrzrag jvagre jvgubhg n zhezhe. Gurl ybbxrq
sbejneq jvgu pbasvqrapr sbe eryvrs sebz gurve pbhagel va qhr frnfba, naq va
guvf gurl jrer abg qvfnccbvagrq. Gur Frpergnel bs Jne rzcyblrq nyy uvf
raretvrf gb sbejneq gurz gur arprffnel fhccyvrf naq gb zhfgre naq fraq fhpu
n zvyvgnel sbepr gb Hgnu nf jbhyq eraqre erfvfgnapr ba gur cneg bs gur
Zbezbaf ubcryrff, naq guhf grezvangr gur jne jvgubhg gur rsshfvba bs oybbq.
Va uvf rssbegf ur jnf rssvpvragyl fhfgnvarq ol Pbaterff. Gurl tenagrq
nccebcevngvbaf fhssvpvrag gb pbire gur qrsvpvrapl guhf arprffnevyl perngrq,
naq nyfb cebivqrq sbe envfvat gjb ertvzragf bs ibyhagrref "sbe gur checbfr
bs dhryyvat qvfgheonaprf va gur Greevgbel bs Hgnu, sbe gur cebgrpgvba bs
fhccyl naq rzvtenag genvaf, naq gur fhccerffvba bs Vaqvna ubfgvyvgvrf ba
gur sebagvref." Unccvyl, gurer jnf ab bppnfvba gb pnyy gurfr ertvzragf vagb
freivpr. Vs gurer unq orra, V fubhyq unir sryg frevbhf rzoneenffzrag va
fryrpgvat gurz, fb terng jnf gur ahzore bs bhe oenir naq cngevbgvp pvgvmraf
nakvbhf gb freir gurve pbhagel va guvf qvfgnag naq nccneragyl qnatrebhf
rkcrqvgvba. Guhf vg unf rire orra, naq guhf znl vg rire or.

Gur jvfqbz naq rpbabzl bs fraqvat fhssvpvrag errasbeprzragf gb Hgnu ner
rfgnoyvfurq, abg bayl ol gur rirag, ohg va gur bcvavba bs gubfr jub sebz
gurve cbfvgvba naq bccbeghavgvrf ner gur zbfg pncnoyr bs sbezvat n pbeerpg
whqtzrag. Trareny Wbuafgba, gur pbzznaqre bs gur sbeprf, va nqqerffvat gur
Frpergnel bs Jne sebz Sbeg Oevqtre haqre qngr bs Bpgbore 18, 1857,
rkcerffrf gur bcvavba gung "hayrff n ynetr sbepr vf frag urer, sebz gur
angher bs gur pbhagel n cebgenpgrq jne ba gurve [gur Zbezbaf'f] cneg vf
varivgnoyr." Guvf ur pbafvqrerq arprffnel gb grezvangr gur jne "fcrrqvyl
naq zber rpbabzvpnyyl guna vs nggrzcgrq ol vafhssvpvrag zrnaf."

Va gur zrnagvzr vg jnf zl nakvbhf qrfver gung gur Zbezbaf fubhyq lvryq
borqvrapr gb gur Pbafgvghgvba naq gur ynjf jvgubhg eraqrevat vg arprffnel
gb erfbeg gb zvyvgnel sbepr. Gb nvq va nppbzcyvfuvat guvf bowrpg, V qrrzrq
vg nqivfnoyr va Ncevy ynfg gb qvfcngpu gjb qvfgvathvfurq pvgvmraf bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf, Zrffef. Cbjryy naq ZpPhyybpu, gb Hgnu. Gurl ober jvgu gurz n
cebpynzngvba nqqerffrq ol zlfrys gb gur vaunovgnagf bs Hgnu, qngrq ba gur
6gu qnl bs gung zbagu, jneavat gurz bs gurve gehr pbaqvgvba naq ubj
ubcryrff vg jnf ba gurve cneg gb crefvfg va eroryyvba ntnvafg gur Havgrq
Fgngrf, naq bssrevat nyy gubfr jub fubhyq fhozvg gb gur ynjf n shyy cneqba
sbe gurve cnfg frqvgvbaf naq gernfbaf. Ng gur fnzr gvzr V nffherq gubfr jub
fubhyq crefvfg va eroryyvba ntnvafg gur Havgrq Fgngrf gung gurl zhfg rkcrpg
ab shegure yravgl, ohg ybbx gb or evtbebhfyl qrnyg jvgu nppbeqvat gb gurve
qrfregf. Gur vafgehpgvbaf gb gurfr ntragf, nf jryy nf n pbcl bs gur
cebpynzngvba naq gurve ercbegf, ner urerjvgu fhozvggrq. Vg jvyy or frra ol
gurve ercbeg bs gur 3q bs Whyl ynfg gung gurl unir shyyl pbasvezrq gur
bcvavba rkcerffrq ol Trareny Wbuafgba va gur cerivbhf Bpgbore nf gb gur
arprffvgl bs fraqvat errasbeprzragf gb Hgnu. Va guvf gurl fgngr gung gurl
"ner svezyl vzcerffrq jvgu gur oryvrs gung gur cerfrapr bs gur Nezl urer
naq gur ynetr nqqvgvbany sbepr gung unq orra beqrerq gb guvf Greevgbel jrer
gur puvrs vaqhprzragf gung pnhfrq gur Zbezbaf gb nonaqba gur vqrn bs
erfvfgvat gur nhgubevgl bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf. N yrff qrpvfvir cbyvpl jbhyq
cebonoyl unir erfhygrq va n ybat, oybbql, naq rkcrafvir jne."

Gurfr tragyrzra pbaqhpgrq gurzfryirf gb zl ragver fngvfsnpgvba naq eraqrerq
hfrshy freivprf va rkrphgvat gur uhznar vagragvbaf bs gur Tbireazrag.

Vg nyfb nssbeqf zr terng fngvfsnpgvba gb fgngr gung Tbireabe Phzzvat unf
cresbezrq uvf qhgl va na noyr naq pbapvyvngbel znaare naq jvgu gur unccvrfg
rssrpg. V pna abg va guvf pbaarpgvba ersenva sebz zragvbavat gur inyhnoyr
freivprf bs Pbybary Gubznf Y. Xnar, jub, sebz zbgvirf bs cher oraribyrapr
naq jvgubhg nal bssvpvny punenpgre be crphavnel pbzcrafngvba, ivfvgrq Hgnu
qhevat gur ynfg vapyrzrag jvagre sbe gur checbfr bs pbagevohgvat gb gur
cnpvsvpngvba bs gur Greevgbel.

V nz unccl gb vasbez lbh gung gur tbireabe naq bgure pvivy bssvpref bs Hgnu
ner abj cresbezvat gurve nccebcevngr shapgvbaf jvgubhg erfvfgnapr. Gur
nhgubevgl bs gur Pbafgvghgvba naq gur ynjf unf orra shyyl erfgberq naq
crnpr cerinvyf guebhtubhg gur Greevgbel. N cbegvba bs gur gebbcf frag gb
Hgnu ner abj rapnzcrq va Prqne Inyyrl, 44 zvyrf fbhgujrfg bs Fnyg Ynxr
Pvgl, naq gur erznvaqre unir orra beqrerq gb Bertba gb fhccerff Vaqvna
ubfgvyvgvrf.

Gur znepu bs gur nezl gb Fnyg Ynxr Pvgl guebhtu gur Vaqvna Greevgbel unf unq
n cbjreshy rssrpg va erfgenvavat gur ubfgvyr srryvatf ntnvafg gur Havgrq
Fgngrf juvpu rkvfgrq nzbat gur Vaqvnaf va gung ertvba naq va frphevat
rzvtenagf gb gur sne Jrfg ntnvafg gurve qrcerqngvbaf. Guvf jvyy nyfb or gur
zrnaf bs rfgnoyvfuvat zvyvgnel cbfgf naq cebzbgvat frggyrzragf nybat gur
ebhgr. V erpbzzraq gung gur orarsvgf bs bhe ynaq ynjf naq cerrzcgvba flfgrz
or rkgraqrq gb gur crbcyr bs Hgnu ol gur rfgnoyvfuzrag bs n ynaq bssvpr va
gung Greevgbel.

V unir bppnfvba nyfb gb pbatenghyngr lbh ba gur erfhyg bs bhe artbgvngvbaf
jvgu Puvan.

Lbh jrer vasbezrq ol zl ynfg naahny zrffntr gung bhe zvavfgre unq orra
vafgehpgrq gb bpphcl n arhgeny cbfvgvba va gur ubfgvyvgvrf pbaqhpgrq ol
Terng Oevgnva naq Senapr ntnvafg Pnagba. Ur jnf, ubjrire, ng gur fnzr gvzr
qverpgrq gb pbbcrengr pbeqvnyyl jvgu gur Oevgvfu naq Serapu zvavfgref va
nyy crnprshy zrnfherf gb frpher ol gerngl gubfr whfg pbaprffvbaf gb sbervta
pbzzrepr juvpu gur angvbaf bs gur jbeyq unq n evtug gb qrznaq. Vg jnf
vzcbffvoyr sbe zr gb cebprrq shegure guna guvf ba zl bja nhgubevgl jvgubhg
hfhecvat gur jne-znxvat cbjre, juvpu haqre gur Pbafgvghgvba orybatf
rkpyhfviryl gb Pbaterff.

Orfvqrf, nsgre n pnershy rknzvangvba bs gur angher naq rkgrag bs bhe
tevrinaprf, V qvq abg oryvrir gurl jrer bs fhpu n cerffvat naq ntteningrq
punenpgre nf jbhyq unir whfgvsvrq Pbaterff va qrpynevat jne ntnvafg gur
Puvarfr Rzcver jvgubhg svefg znxvat nabgure rnearfg nggrzcg gb nqwhfg gurz
ol crnprshy artbgvngvba. V jnf gur zber vapyvarq gb guvf bcvavba orpnhfr bs
gur frirer punfgvfrzrag juvpu unq gura ohg erpragyl orra vasyvpgrq hcba gur
Puvarfr ol bhe fdhnqeba va gur pncgher naq qrfgehpgvba bs gur Oneevre sbegf
gb niratr na nyyrtrq vafhyg gb bhe synt. Gur rirag unf cebirq gur jvfqbz bs
bhe arhgenyvgl. Bhe zvavfgre unf rkrphgrq uvf vafgehpgvbaf jvgu rzvarag
fxvyy naq novyvgl. Va pbawhapgvba jvgu gur Ehffvna cyravcbgragvnel, ur unf
crnprshyyl, ohg rssrpghnyyl, pbbcrengrq jvgu gur Ratyvfu naq Serapu
cyravcbgragvnevrf, naq rnpu bs gur sbhe cbjref unf pbapyhqrq n frcnengr
gerngl jvgu Puvan bs n uvtuyl fngvfsnpgbel punenpgre. Gur gerngl pbapyhqrq
ol bhe bja cyravcbgragvnel jvyy vzzrqvngryl or fhozvggrq gb gur Frangr.

V nz unccl gb naabhapr gung guebhtu gur raretrgvp lrg pbapvyvngbel rssbegf
bs bhe pbafhy-trareny va Wncna n arj gerngl unf orra pbapyhqrq jvgu gung
Rzcver, juvpu znl or rkcrpgrq zngrevnyyl gb nhtzrag bhe genqr naq
vagrepbhefr va gung dhnegre naq erzbir sebz bhe pbhagelzra gur qvfnovyvgvrf
juvpu unir urergbsber orra vzcbfrq hcba gur rkrepvfr bs gurve eryvtvba. Gur
gerngl funyy or fhozvggrq gb gur Frangr sbe nccebiny jvgubhg qrynl.

Vg vf zl rnearfg qrfver gung rirel zvfhaqrefgnaqvat jvgu gur Tbireazrag bs
Terng Oevgnva fubhyq or nzvpnoyl naq fcrrqvyl nqwhfgrq. Vg unf orra gur
zvfsbeghar bs obgu pbhagevrf, nyzbfg rire fvapr gur crevbq bs gur
Eribyhgvba, gb unir orra naablrq ol n fhpprffvba bs veevgngvat naq
qnatrebhf dhrfgvbaf, guerngravat gurve sevraqyl eryngvbaf. Guvf unf
cnegvnyyl ceriragrq gur shyy qrirybczrag bs gubfr srryvatf bs zhghny
sevraqfuvc orgjrra gur crbcyr bs gur gjb pbhagevrf fb angheny va gurzfryirf
naq fb pbaqhpvir gb gurve pbzzba vagrerfg. Nal frevbhf vagreehcgvba bs gur
pbzzrepr orgjrra gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq Terng Oevgnva jbhyq or rdhnyyl
vawhevbhf gb obgu. Va snpg, ab gjb angvbaf unir rire rkvfgrq ba gur snpr bs
gur rnegu juvpu pbhyq qb rnpu bgure fb zhpu tbbq be fb zhpu unez.

Ragregnvavat gurfr fragvzragf, V nz tengvsvrq gb vasbez lbh gung gur
ybat-craqvat pbagebirefl orgjrra gur gjb Tbireazragf va eryngvba gb gur
dhrfgvba bs ivfvgngvba naq frnepu unf orra nzvpnoyl nqwhfgrq. Gur pynvz ba
gur cneg bs Terng Oevgnva sbepvoyl gb ivfvg Nzrevpna irffryf ba gur uvtu
frnf va gvzr bs crnpr pbhyq abg or fhfgnvarq haqre gur ynj bs angvbaf, naq
vg unq orra bireehyrq ol ure bja zbfg rzvarag whevfgf. Guvf dhrfgvba jnf
erpragyl oebhtug gb na vffhr ol gur ercrngrq npgf bs Oevgvfu pehvfref va
obneqvat naq frnepuvat bhe zrepunag irffryf va gur Thys bs Zrkvpb naq gur
nqwnprag frnf. Gurfr npgf jrer gur zber vawhevbhf naq naablvat, nf gurfr
jngref ner genirefrq ol n ynetr cbegvba bs gur pbzzrepr naq anivtngvba bs
gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq gurve serr naq haerfgevpgrq hfr vf rffragvny gb gur
frphevgl bs gur pbnfgjvfr genqr orgjrra gur qvssrerag Fgngrf bs gur Havba.
Fhpu irkngvbhf vagreehcgvbaf pbhyq abg snvy gb rkpvgr gur srryvatf bs gur
pbhagel naq gb erdhver gur vagrecbfvgvba bs gur Tbireazrag. Erzbafgenaprf
jrer nqqerffrq gb gur Oevgvfu Tbireazrag ntnvafg gurfr ivbyngvbaf bs bhe
evtugf bs fbirervtagl, naq n aniny sbepr jnf ng gur fnzr gvzr beqrerq gb
gur Phona jngref jvgu qverpgvbaf "gb cebgrpg nyy irffryf bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf ba gur uvtu frnf sebz frnepu be qrgragvba ol gur irffryf bs jne bs
nal bgure angvba." Gurfr zrnfherf erprvirq gur hadhnyvsvrq naq rira
raguhfvnfgvp nccebongvba bs gur Nzrevpna crbcyr. Zbfg sbeghangryl, ubjrire,
ab pbyyvfvba gbbx cynpr, naq gur Oevgvfu Tbireazrag cebzcgyl nibjrq vgf
erpbtavgvba bs gur cevapvcyrf bs vagreangvbany ynj hcba guvf fhowrpg nf
ynvq qbja ol gur Tbireazrag bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf va gur abgr bs gur
Frpergnel bs Fgngr gb gur Oevgvfu zvavfgre ng Jnfuvatgba bs Ncevy 10, 1858,
juvpu frpher gur irffryf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf hcba gur uvtu frnf sebz
ivfvgngvba be frnepu va gvzr bs crnpr haqre nal pvephzfgnaprf jungrire. Gur
pynvz unf orra nonaqbarq va n znaare ersyrpgvat ubabe ba gur Oevgvfu
Tbireazrag naq rivapvat n whfg ertneq sbe gur ynj bs angvbaf, naq pna abg
snvy gb fgeratgura gur nzvpnoyr eryngvbaf orgjrra gur gjb pbhagevrf.

Gur Oevgvfu Tbireazrag ng gur fnzr gvzr cebcbfrq gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf gung
fbzr zbqr fubhyq or nqbcgrq, ol zhghny neenatrzrag orgjrra gur gjb
pbhagevrf, bs n punenpgre juvpu znl or sbhaq rssrpgvir jvgubhg orvat
bssrafvir, sbe irevslvat gur angvbanyvgl bs irffryf fhfcrpgrq ba tbbq
tebhaqf bs pneelvat snyfr pbybef. Gurl unir nyfb vaivgrq gur Havgrq Fgngrf
gb gnxr gur vavgvngvir naq cebcbfr zrnfherf sbe guvf checbfr. Juvyfg
qrpyvavat gb nffhzr fb tenir n erfcbafvovyvgl, gur Frpergnel bs Fgngr unf
vasbezrq gur Oevgvfu Tbireazrag gung jr ner ernql gb erprvir nal cebcbfnyf
juvpu gurl znl srry qvfcbfrq gb bssre univat guvf bowrpg va ivrj, naq gb
pbafvqre gurz va na nzvpnoyr fcvevg. N fgebat bcvavba vf, ubjrire,
rkcerffrq gung gur bppnfvbany nohfr bs gur synt bs nal angvba vf na rivy
sne yrff gb or qrcerpngrq guna jbhyq or gur rfgnoyvfuzrag bs nal
erthyngvbaf juvpu zvtug or vapbzcngvoyr jvgu gur serrqbz bs gur frnf. Guvf
Tbireazrag unf lrg erprvirq ab pbzzhavpngvba fcrpvslvat gur znaare va juvpu
gur Oevgvfu Tbireazrag jbhyq cebcbfr gb pneel bhg gurve fhttrfgvba, naq V
nz vapyvarq gb oryvrir gung ab cyna juvpu pna or qrivfrq jvyy or serr sebz
tenir rzoneenffzragf. Fgvyy, V funyy sbez ab qrpvqrq bcvavba ba gur fhowrpg
hagvy V funyy unir pnershyyl naq va gur orfg fcvevg rknzvarq nal cebcbfnyf
juvpu gurl znl guvax cebcre gb znxr.

V nz gehyl fbeel V pna abg nyfb vasbez lbh gung gur pbzcyvpngvbaf orgjrra
Terng Oevgnva naq gur Havgrq Fgngrf nevfvat bhg bs gur Pynlgba naq Ohyjre
gerngl bs Ncevy, 1850, unir orra svanyyl nqwhfgrq.

Ng gur pbzzraprzrag bs lbhe ynfg frffvba V unq ernfba gb ubcr gung,
rznapvcngvat gurzfryirf sebz shegure haninvyvat qvfphffvbaf, gur gjb
Tbireazragf jbhyq cebprrq gb frggyr gur Prageny Nzrevpna dhrfgvbaf va n
cenpgvpny znaare, nyvxr ubabenoyr naq fngvfsnpgbel gb obgu; naq guvf ubcr V
unir abg lrg nonaqbarq. Va zl ynfg naahny zrffntr V fgngrq gung biregherf
unq orra znqr ol gur Oevgvfu Tbireazrag sbe guvf checbfr va n sevraqyl
fcvevg, juvpu V pbeqvnyyl erpvcebpngrq. Gurve cebcbfny jnf gb jvguqenj
gurfr dhrfgvbaf sebz qverpg artbgvngvba orgjrra gur gjb Tbireazragf, ohg gb
nppbzcyvfu gur fnzr bowrpg ol n artbgvngvba orgjrra gur Oevgvfu Tbireazrag
naq rnpu bs gur Prageny Nzrevpna Erchoyvpf jubfr greevgbevny vagrerfgf ner
vzzrqvngryl vaibyirq. Gur frggyrzrag jnf gb or znqr va nppbeqnapr jvgu gur
trareny grabe bs gur vagrecergngvba cynprq hcba gur Pynlgba naq Ohyjre
gerngl ol gur Havgrq Fgngrf, jvgu pregnva zbqvsvpngvbaf. Nf artbgvngvbaf
ner fgvyy craqvat hcba guvf onfvf, vg jbhyq abg or cebcre sbe zr abj gb
pbzzhavpngr gurve cerfrag pbaqvgvba. N svany frggyrzrag bs gurfr dhrfgvbaf
vf terngyl gb or qrfverq, nf guvf jbhyq jvcr bhg gur ynfg erznvavat fhowrpg
bs qvfchgr orgjrra gur gjb pbhagevrf.

Bhe eryngvbaf jvgu gur terng Rzcverf bs Senapr naq Ehffvn, nf jryy nf jvgu
nyy bgure Tbireazragf ba gur pbagvarag bs Rhebcr, rkprcg gung bs Fcnva,
pbagvahr gb or bs gur zbfg sevraqyl punenpgre.

Jvgu Fcnva bhe eryngvbaf erznva va na hafngvfsnpgbel pbaqvgvba. Va zl
zrffntr bs Qrprzore ynfg V vasbezrq lbh gung bhe raibl rkgenbeqvanel naq
zvavfgre cyravcbgragvnel gb Znqevq unq nfxrq sbe uvf erpnyy, naq vg jnf zl
checbfr gb fraq bhg n arj zvavfgre gb gung Pbheg jvgu fcrpvny vafgehpgvbaf
ba nyy dhrfgvbaf craqvat orgjrra gur gjb Tbireazragf, naq jvgu n
qrgrezvangvba gb unir gurz fcrrqvyl naq nzvpnoyl nqwhfgrq vs gung jrer
cbffvoyr. Guvf checbfr unf orra uvguregb qrsrngrq ol pnhfrf juvpu V arrq
abg rahzrengr. Gur zvffvba gb Fcnva unf orra vagehfgrq gb n qvfgvathvfurq
pvgvmra bs Xraghpxl, jub jvyy cebprrq gb Znqevq jvgubhg qrynl naq znxr
nabgure naq n svany nggrzcg gb bognva whfgvpr sebz gung Tbireazrag.

Fcnavfu bssvpvnyf haqre gur qverpg pbageby bs gur Pncgnva-Trareny bs Phon
unir vafhygrq bhe angvbany synt naq va ercrngrq vafgnaprf unir sebz gvzr gb
gvzr vasyvpgrq vawhevrf ba gur crefbaf naq cebcregl bs bhe pvgvmraf. Gurfr
unir tvira ovegu gb ahzrebhf pynvzf ntnvafg gur Fcnavfu Tbireazrag, gur
zrevgf bs juvpu unir orra noyl qvfphffrq sbe n frevrf bs lrnef ol bhe
fhpprffvir qvcybzngvp ercerfragngvirf. Abgjvgufgnaqvat guvf, jr unir abg
neevirq ng n cenpgvpny erfhyg va nal fvatyr vafgnapr, hayrff jr znl rkprcg
gur pnfr bs gur Oynpx Jneevbe, haqre gur yngr Nqzvavfgengvba, naq gung
cerfragrq na bhgentr bs fhpu n punenpgre nf jbhyq unir whfgvsvrq na
vzzrqvngr erfbeg gb jne. Nyy bhe nggrzcgf gb bognva erqerff unir orra
onssyrq naq qrsrngrq. Gur serdhrag naq bsg-erpheevat punatrf va gur Fcnavfu
zvavfgel unir orra rzcyblrq nf ernfbaf sbe qrynl. Jr unir orra pbzcryyrq gb
jnvg ntnva naq ntnva hagvy gur arj zvavfgre funyy unir unq gvzr gb
vairfgvtngr gur whfgvpr bs bhe qrznaqf.

Rira jung unir orra qrabzvangrq "gur Phona pynvzf," va juvpu zber guna 100
bs bhe pvgvmraf ner qverpgyl vagrerfgrq, unir sheavfurq ab rkprcgvba. Gurfr
pynvzf jrer sbe gur ershaqvat bs qhgvrf hawhfgyl rknpgrq sebz Nzrevpna
irffryf ng qvssrerag phfgbz-ubhfrf va Phon fb ybat ntb nf gur lrne 1844.
Gur cevapvcyrf hcba juvpu gurl erfg ner fb znavsrfgyl rdhvgnoyr naq whfg
gung, nsgre n crevbq bs arneyl gra lrnef, va 1854 gurl jrer erpbtavmrq ol
gur Fcnavfu Tbireazrag. Cebprrqvatf jrer nsgrejneqf vafgvghgrq gb nfpregnva
gurve nzbhag, naq guvf jnf svanyyl svkrq, nppbeqvat gb gurve bja fgngrzrag
(jvgu juvpu jr jrer fngvfsvrq), ng gur fhz bs $128,635.54. Whfg ng gur
zbzrag, nsgre n qrynl bs sbhegrra lrnef, jura jr unq ernfba gb rkcrpg gung
guvf fhz jbhyq or ercnvq jvgu vagrerfg, jr unir erprvirq n cebcbfny
bssrevat gb ershaq bar-guveq bs gung nzbhag ($42,878.41), ohg jvgubhg
vagrerfg, vs jr jbhyq npprcg guvf va shyy fngvfsnpgvba. Gur bssre vf nyfb
nppbzcnavrq ol n qrpynengvba gung guvf vaqrzavsvpngvba vf abg sbhaqrq ba
nal ernfba bs fgevpg whfgvpr, ohg vf znqr nf n fcrpvny snibe.

Bar nyyrtrq pnhfr sbe cebpenfgvangvba va gur rknzvangvba naq nqwhfgzrag bs
bhe pynvzf nevfrf sebz na bofgnpyr juvpu vg vf gur qhgl bs gur Fcnavfu
Tbireazrag gb erzbir. Juvyfg gur Pncgnva-Trareny bs Phon vf vairfgrq jvgu
trareny qrfcbgvp nhgubevgl va gur tbireazrag bs gung vfynaq, gur cbjre vf
jvguuryq sebz uvz gb rknzvar naq erqerff jebatf pbzzvggrq ol bssvpvnyf
haqre uvf pbageby ba pvgvmraf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Vafgrnq bs znxvat bhe
pbzcynvagf qverpgyl gb uvz ng Uninan, jr ner boyvtrq gb cerfrag gurz
guebhtu bhe zvavfgre ng Znqevq. Gurfr ner gura ersreerq onpx gb gur
Pncgnva-Trareny sbe vasbezngvba, naq zhpu gvzr vf guhf pbafhzrq va
ceryvzvanel vairfgvtngvbaf naq pbeerfcbaqrapr orgjrra Znqevq naq Phon
orsber gur Fcnavfu Tbireazrag jvyy pbafrag gb cebprrq gb artbgvngvba. Znal
bs gur qvssvphygvrf orgjrra gur gjb Tbireazragf jbhyq or boivngrq naq n
ybat genva bs artbgvngvba nibvqrq vs gur Pncgnva-Trareny jrer vairfgrq jvgu
nhgubevgl gb frggyr dhrfgvbaf bs rnfl fbyhgvba ba gur fcbg, jurer nyy gur
snpgf ner serfu naq pbhyq or cebzcgyl naq fngvfsnpgbevyl nfpregnvarq. Jr
unir uvguregb va inva hetrq hcba gur Fcnavfu Tbireazrag gb pbasre guvf
cbjre hcba gur Pncgnva-Trareny, naq bhe zvavfgre gb Fcnva jvyy ntnva or
vafgehpgrq gb hetr guvf fhowrpg ba gurve abgvpr. Va guvf erfcrpg jr bpphcl
n qvssrerag cbfvgvba sebz gur cbjref bs Rhebcr. Phon vf nyzbfg jvguva fvtug
bs bhe fuberf; bhe pbzzrepr jvgu vg vf sne terngre guna gung bs nal bgure
angvba, vapyhqvat Fcnva vgfrys, naq bhe pvgvmraf ner va unovgf bs qnvyl naq
rkgraqrq crefbany vagrepbhefr jvgu rirel cneg bs gur vfynaq. Vg vf
gurersber n terng tevrinapr gung jura nal qvssvphygl bpphef, ab znggre ubj
havzcbegnag, juvpu zvtug or ernqvyl frggyrq ng gur zbzrag, jr fubhyq or
boyvtrq gb erfbeg gb Znqevq, rfcrpvnyyl jura gur irel svefg fgrc gb or
gnxra gurer vf gb ersre vg onpx gb Phon.

Gur gehgu vf gung Phon, va vgf rkvfgvat pbybavny pbaqvgvba, vf n pbafgnag
fbhepr bs vawhel naq naablnapr gb gur Nzrevpna crbcyr. Vg vf gur bayl fcbg
va gur pvivyvmrq jbeyq jurer gur Nsevpna fynir genqr vf gbyrengrq, naq jr
ner obhaq ol gerngl jvgu Terng Oevgnva gb znvagnva n aniny sbepr ba gur
pbnfg bs Nsevpn, ng zhpu rkcrafr obgu bs yvsr naq gernfher, fbyryl sbe gur
checbfr bs neerfgvat fyniref obhaq gb gung vfynaq. Gur yngr frevbhf
qvssvphygvrf orgjrra gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq Terng Oevgnva erfcrpgvat gur
evtug bs frnepu, abj fb unccvyl grezvangrq, pbhyq arire unir nevfra vs Phon
unq abg nssbeqrq n znexrg sbe fynirf. Nf ybat nf guvf znexrg funyy erznva
bcra gurer pna or ab ubcr sbe gur pvivyvmngvba bs oravtugrq Nsevpn. Juvyfg
gur qrznaq sbe fynirf pbagvahrf va Phon jnef jvyy or jntrq nzbat gur crggl
naq oneonebhf puvrsf va Nsevpn sbe gur checbfr bs frvmvat fhowrpgf gb
fhccyl guvf genqr. Va fhpu n pbaqvgvba bs nssnvef vg vf vzcbffvoyr gung gur
yvtug bs pvivyvmngvba naq eryvtvba pna rire crargengr gurfr qnex nobqrf.

Vg unf orra znqr xabja gb gur jbeyq ol zl cerqrprffbef gung gur Havgrq
Fgngrf unir ba frireny bppnfvbaf raqrniberq gb npdhver Phon sebz Fcnva ol
ubabenoyr artbgvngvba. Vs guvf jrer nppbzcyvfurq, gur ynfg eryvp bs gur
Nsevpna fynir genqr jbhyq vafgnagyl qvfnccrne. Jr jbhyq abg, vs jr pbhyq,
npdhver Phon va nal bgure znaare. Guvf vf qhr gb bhe angvbany punenpgre.
Nyy gur greevgbel juvpu jr unir npdhverq fvapr gur bevtva bs gur Tbireazrag
unf orra ol snve chepunfr sebz Senapr, Fcnva, naq Zrkvpb be ol gur serr naq
ibyhagnel npg bs gur vaqrcraqrag Fgngr bs Grknf va oyraqvat ure qrfgvavrf
jvgu bhe bja. Guvf pbhefr jr funyy rire chefhr, hayrff pvephzfgnaprf fubhyq
bpphe juvpu jr qb abg abj nagvpvcngr, eraqrevat n qrcnegher sebz vg pyrneyl
whfgvsvnoyr haqre gur vzcrengvir naq bireehyvat ynj bs frys-cerfreingvba.
Gur vfynaq bs Phon, sebz vgf trbtencuvpny cbfvgvba, pbzznaqf gur zbhgu bs
gur Zvffvffvccv naq gur vzzrafr naq naahnyyl vapernfvat genqr, sbervta naq
pbnfgjvfr, sebz gur inyyrl bs gung aboyr evire, abj rzoenpvat unys gur
fbirervta Fgngrf bs gur Havba. Jvgu gung vfynaq haqre gur qbzvavba bs n
qvfgnag sbervta cbjre guvf genqr, bs ivgny vzcbegnapr gb gurfr Fgngrf, vf
rkcbfrq gb gur qnatre bs orvat qrfgeblrq va gvzr bs jne, naq vg unf
uvguregb orra fhowrpgrq gb crecrghny vawhel naq naablnapr va gvzr bs crnpr.
Bhe eryngvbaf jvgu Fcnva, juvpu bhtug gb or bs gur zbfg sevraqyl punenpgre,
zhfg nyjnlf or cynprq va wrbcneql juvyfg gur rkvfgvat pbybavny tbireazrag
bire gur vfynaq funyy erznva va vgf cerfrag pbaqvgvba.

Juvyfg gur cbffrffvba bs gur vfynaq jbhyq or bs infg vzcbegnapr gb gur
Havgrq Fgngrf, vgf inyhr gb Fcnva vf pbzcnengviryl havzcbegnag. Fhpu jnf
gur eryngvir fvghngvba bs gur cnegvrf jura gur terng Ancbyrba genafsreerq
Ybhvfvnan gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Wrnybhf nf ur rire jnf bs gur angvbany
ubabe naq vagrerfgf bs Senapr, ab crefba guebhtubhg gur jbeyq unf vzchgrq
oynzr gb uvz sbe npprcgvat n crphavnel rdhvinyrag sbe guvf prffvba.

Gur choyvpvgl juvpu unf orra tvira gb bhe sbezre artbgvngvbaf hcba guvf
fhowrpg naq gur ynetr nccebcevngvba juvpu znl or erdhverq gb rssrpg gur
checbfr eraqre vg rkcrqvrag orsber znxvat nabgure nggrzcg gb erarj gur
artbgvngvba gung V fubhyq ynl gur jubyr fhowrpg orsber Pbaterff. Guvf vf
rfcrpvnyyl arprffnel, nf vg znl orpbzr vaqvfcrafnoyr gb fhpprff gung V
fubhyq or vagehfgrq jvgu gur zrnaf bs znxvat na nqinapr gb gur Fcnavfu
Tbireazrag vzzrqvngryl nsgre gur fvtavat bs gur gerngl, jvgubhg njnvgvat
gur engvsvpngvba bs vg ol gur Frangr. V nz rapbhentrq gb znxr guvf
fhttrfgvba ol gur rknzcyr bs Ze. Wrssrefba cerivbhf gb gur chepunfr bs
Ybhvfvnan sebz Senapr naq ol gung bs Ze. Cbyx va ivrj bs gur npdhvfvgvba bs
greevgbel sebz Zrkvpb. V ersre gur jubyr fhowrpg gb Pbaterff naq pbzzraq vg
gb gurve pnershy pbafvqrengvba.

V ercrng gur erpbzzraqngvba znqr va zl zrffntr bs Qrprzore ynfg va snibe bs
na nccebcevngvba "gb or cnvq gb gur Fcnavfu Tbireazrag sbe gur checbfr bs
qvfgevohgvba nzbat gur pynvznagf va gur Nzvfgnq pnfr." Cerfvqrag Cbyx svefg
znqr n fvzvyne erpbzzraqngvba va Qrprzore, 1847, naq vg jnf ercrngrq ol zl
vzzrqvngr cerqrprffbe va Qrprzore, 1853. V ragregnva ab qbhog gung
vaqrzavgl vf snveyl qhr gb gurfr pynvznagf haqre bhe gerngl jvgu Fcnva bs
Bpgbore 27, 1795; naq juvyfg qrznaqvat whfgvpr jr bhtug gb qb whfgvpr. Na
nccebcevngvba cebzcgyl znqr sbe guvf checbfr pbhyq abg snvy gb rkreg n
snibenoyr vasyhrapr ba bhe artbgvngvbaf jvgu Fcnva.

Bhe cbfvgvba va eryngvba gb gur vaqrcraqrag Fgngrf fbhgu bs hf ba guvf
pbagvarag, naq rfcrpvnyyl gubfr jvguva gur yvzvgf bs Abegu Nzrevpn, vf bs n
crphyvne punenpgre. Gur abegurea obhaqnel bs Zrkvpb vf pbvapvqrag jvgu bhe
bja fbhgurea obhaqnel sebz bprna gb bprna, naq jr zhfg arprffnevyl srry n
qrrc vagrerfg va nyy gung pbapreaf gur jryy-orvat naq gur sngr bs fb arne n
arvtuobe. Jr unir nyjnlf purevfurq gur xvaqrfg jvfurf sbe gur fhpprff bs
gung Erchoyvp, naq unir vaqhytrq gur ubcr gung vg zvtug ng ynfg, nsgre nyy
vgf gevnyf, rawbl crnpr naq cebfcrevgl haqre n serr naq fgnoyr tbireazrag.
Jr unir arire uvguregb vagresrerq, qverpgyl be vaqverpgyl, jvgu vgf
vagreany nssnvef, naq vg vf n qhgl juvpu jr bjr gb bhefryirf gb cebgrpg gur
vagrtevgl bs vgf greevgbel ntnvafg gur ubfgvyr vagresrerapr bs nal bgure
cbjre. Bhe trbtencuvpny cbfvgvba, bhe qverpg vagrerfg va nyy gung pbapreaf
Zrkvpb, naq bhe jryy-frggyrq cbyvpl va ertneq gb gur Abegu Nzrevpna
pbagvarag eraqre guvf na vaqvfcrafnoyr qhgl.

Zrkvpb unf orra va n fgngr bs pbafgnag eribyhgvba nyzbfg rire fvapr vg
npuvrirq vgf vaqrcraqrapr. Bar zvyvgnel yrnqre nsgre nabgure unf hfhecrq
gur Tbireazrag va encvq fhpprffvba, naq gur inevbhf pbafgvghgvbaf sebz gvzr
gb gvzr nqbcgrq unir orra frg ng anhtug nyzbfg nf fbba nf gurl jrer
cebpynvzrq. Gur fhpprffvir Tbireazragf unir nssbeqrq ab nqrdhngr
cebgrpgvba, rvgure gb Zrkvpna pvgvmraf be sbervta erfvqragf, ntnvafg
ynjyrff ivbyrapr. Urergbsber n frvmher bs gur pncvgny ol n zvyvgnel
puvrsgnva unf orra trarenyyl sbyybjrq ol ng yrnfg gur abzvany fhozvffvba bs
gur pbhagel gb uvf ehyr sbe n oevrs crevbq, ohg abg fb ng gur cerfrag
pevfvf bs Zrkvpna nssnvef. N pvivy jne unf orra entvat sbe fbzr gvzr
guebhtubhg gur Erchoyvp orgjrra gur prageny Tbireazrag ng gur Pvgl bs
Zrkvpb, juvpu unf raqrniberq gb fhoireg gur pbafgvghgvba ynfg senzrq ol
zvyvgnel cbjre, naq gubfr jub znvagnva gur nhgubevgl bs gung pbafgvghgvba.
Gur nagntbavfg cnegvrf rnpu ubyq cbffrffvba bs qvssrerag Fgngrf bs gur
Erchoyvp, naq gur sbegharf bs gur jne ner pbafgnagyl punatvat. Zrnajuvyr
gur zbfg ercerurafvoyr zrnaf unir orra rzcyblrq ol obgu cnegvrf gb rkgbeg
zbarl sebz sbervtaref, nf jryy nf angvirf, gb pneel ba guvf ehvabhf
pbagrfg. Gur gehgu vf gung guvf svar pbhagel, oyrffrq jvgu n cebqhpgvir
fbvy naq n oravta pyvzngr, unf orra erqhprq ol pvivy qvffrafvba gb n
pbaqvgvba bs nyzbfg ubcryrff nanepul naq vzorpvyvgl. Vg jbhyq or inva sbe
guvf Tbireazrag gb nggrzcg gb rasbepr cnlzrag va zbarl bs gur pynvzf bs
Nzrevpna pvgvmraf, abj nzbhagvat gb zber guna $10,000,000, ntnvafg Zrkvpb,
orpnhfr fur vf qrfgvghgr bs nyy crphavnel zrnaf gb fngvfsl gurfr qrznaqf.

Bhe yngr zvavfgre jnf sheavfurq jvgu nzcyr cbjref naq vafgehpgvbaf sbe gur
nqwhfgzrag bs nyy craqvat dhrfgvbaf jvgu gur prageny Tbireazrag bs Zrkvpb,
naq ur cresbezrq uvf qhgl jvgu mrny naq novyvgl. Gur pynvzf bs bhe
pvgvmraf, fbzr bs gurz nevfvat bhg bs gur ivbyngvba bs na rkcerff cebivfvba
bs gur gerngl bs Thnqnyhcr Uvqnytb, naq bguref sebz tebff vawhevrf gb
crefbaf nf jryy nf cebcregl, unir erznvarq haerqerffrq naq rira haabgvprq.
Erzbafgenaprf ntnvafg gurfr tevrinaprf unir orra nqqerffrq jvgubhg rssrpg
gb gung Tbireazrag. Zrnagvzr va inevbhf cnegf bs gur Erchoyvp vafgnaprf
unir orra ahzrebhf bs gur zheqre, vzcevfbazrag, naq cyhaqre bs bhe pvgvmraf
ol qvssrerag cnegvrf pynvzvat naq rkrepvfvat n ybpny whevfqvpgvba; ohg gur
prageny Tbireazrag, nygubhtu ercrngrqyl hetrq gurergb, unir znqr ab rssbeg
rvgure gb chavfu gur nhgubef bs gurfr bhgentrf be gb cerirag gurve
erpheerapr. Ab Nzrevpna pvgvmra pna abj ivfvg Zrkvpb ba ynjshy ohfvarff
jvgubhg vzzvarag qnatre gb uvf crefba naq cebcregl. Gurer vf ab nqrdhngr
cebgrpgvba gb rvgure, naq va guvf erfcrpg bhe gerngl jvgu gung Erchoyvp vf
nyzbfg n qrnq yrggre.

Guvf fgngr bs nssnvef jnf oebhtug gb n pevfvf va Znl ynfg ol gur
cebzhytngvba bs n qrperr yrilvat n pbagevohgvba ceb engn hcba nyy gur
pncvgny va gur Erchoyvp orgjrra pregnva fcrpvsvrq nzbhagf, jurgure uryq ol
Zrkvpnaf be sbervtaref. Ze. Sbeflgu, ertneqvat guvf qrperr va gur yvtug bs
n "sbeprq ybna," sbeznyyl cebgrfgrq ntnvafg vgf nccyvpngvba gb uvf
pbhagelzra naq nqivfrq gurz abg gb cnl gur pbagevohgvba, ohg gb fhssre vg
gb or sbepvoyl rknpgrq. Npgvat hcba guvf nqivpr, na Nzrevpna pvgvmra
ershfrq gb cnl gur pbagevohgvba, naq uvf cebcregl jnf frvmrq ol nezrq zra
gb fngvfsl gur nzbhag. Abg pbagrag jvgu guvf, gur Tbireazrag cebprrqrq
fgvyy shegure naq vffhrq n qrperr onavfuvat uvz sebz gur pbhagel. Bhe
zvavfgre vzzrqvngryl abgvsvrq gurz gung vs guvf qrperr fubhyq or pneevrq
vagb rkrphgvba ur jbhyq srry vg gb or uvf qhgl gb nqbcg "gur zbfg qrpvqrq
zrnfherf gung orybat gb gur cbjref naq boyvtngvbaf bs gur ercerfragngvir
bssvpr." Abgjvgufgnaqvat guvf jneavat, gur onavfuzrag jnf rasbeprq, naq Ze.
Sbeflgu cebzcgyl naabhaprq gb gur Tbireazrag gur fhfcrafvba bs gur
cbyvgvpny eryngvbaf bs uvf yrtngvba jvgu gurz hagvy gur cyrnfher bs uvf bja
Tbireazrag fubhyq or nfpregnvarq.

Guvf Tbireazrag qvq abg ertneq gur pbagevohgvba vzcbfrq ol gur qrperr bs
gur 15gu Znl ynfg gb or va fgevpgarff n "sbeprq ybna," naq nf fhpu
cebuvovgrq ol gur gragu negvpyr bs gur gerngl bs 1826 orgjrra Terng Oevgnva
naq Zrkvpb, gb gur orarsvgf bs juvpu Nzrevpna pvgvmraf ner ragvgyrq ol
gerngl; lrg gur vzcbfvgvba bs gur pbagevohgvba hcba sbervtaref jnf
pbafvqrerq na hawhfg naq bccerffvir zrnfher. Orfvqrf, vagreany snpgvbaf va
bgure cnegf bs gur Erchoyvp jrer ng gur fnzr gvzr yrilvat fvzvyne rknpgvbaf
hcba gur cebcregl bs bhe pvgvmraf naq vagreehcgvat gurve pbzzrepr. Gurer
unq orra na ragver snvyher ba gur cneg bs bhe zvavfgre gb frpher erqerff
sbe gur jebatf juvpu bhe pvgvmraf unq raqherq, abgjvgufgnaqvat uvf
crefrirevat rssbegf. Naq sebz gur grzcre znavsrfgrq ol gur Zrkvpna
Tbireazrag ur unq ercrngrqyl nffherq hf gung ab snibenoyr punatr pbhyq or
rkcrpgrq hagvy gur Havgrq Fgngrf fubhyq "tvir fgevxvat rivqrapr bs gurve
jvyy naq cbjre gb cebgrpg gurve pvgvmraf," naq gung "frirer punfgravat vf
gur bayl rneguyl erzrql sbe bhe tevrinaprf." Sebz guvf fgngrzrag bs snpgf
vg jbhyq unir orra jbefr guna vqyr gb qverpg Ze. Sbeflgu gb ergenpr uvf
fgrcf naq erfhzr qvcybzngvp eryngvbaf jvgu gung Tbireazrag, naq vg jnf
gurersber qrrzrq cebcre gb fnapgvba uvf jvguqenjny bs gur yrtngvba sebz gur
Pvgl bs Zrkvpb.

Nohaqnag pnhfr abj haqbhogrqyl rkvfgf sbe n erfbeg gb ubfgvyvgvrf ntnvafg
gur Tbireazrag fgvyy ubyqvat cbffrffvba bs gur pncvgny. Fubhyq gurl fhpprrq
va fhoqhvat gur pbafgvghgvbany sbeprf, nyy ernfbanoyr ubcr jvyy gura unir
rkcverq bs n crnprshy frggyrzrag bs bhe qvssvphygvrf. Ba gur bgure unaq,
fubhyq gur pbafgvghgvbany cnegl cerinvy naq gurve nhgubevgl or rfgnoyvfurq
bire gur Erchoyvp, gurer vf ernfba gb ubcr gung gurl jvyy or navzngrq ol n
yrff hasevraqyl fcvevg naq znl tenag gung erqerff gb Nzrevpna pvgvmraf
juvpu whfgvpr erdhverf fb sne nf gurl znl cbffrff gur zrnaf. Ohg sbe guvf
rkcrpgngvba V fubhyq ng bapr unir erpbzzraqrq gb Pbaterff gb tenag gur
arprffnel cbjre gb gur Cerfvqrag gb gnxr cbffrffvba bs n fhssvpvrag cbegvba
bs gur erzbgr naq hafrggyrq greevgbel bs Zrkvpb, gb or uryq va cyrqtr hagvy
bhe vawhevrf funyy or erqerffrq naq bhe whfg qrznaqf or fngvfsvrq. Jr unir
nyernql rkunhfgrq rirel zvyqre zrnaf bs bognvavat whfgvpr. Va fhpu n pnfr
guvf erzrql bs ercevfnyf vf erpbtavmrq ol gur ynj bs angvbaf, abg bayl nf
whfg va vgfrys, ohg nf n zrnaf bs ceriragvat npghny jne.

Ohg gurer vf nabgure ivrj bs bhe eryngvbaf jvgu Zrkvpb, nevfvat sebz gur
haunccl pbaqvgvba bs nssnvef nybat bhe fbhgujrfgrea sebagvre, juvpu qrznaqf
vzzrqvngr npgvba. Va gung erzbgr ertvba, jurer gurer ner ohg srj juvgr
vaunovgnagf, ynetr onaqf bs ubfgvyr naq cerqngbel Vaqvnaf ebnz
cebzvfphbhfyl bire gur Zrkvpna Fgngrf bs Puvuhnuhn naq Fbaben naq bhe
nqwbvavat Greevgbevrf. Gur ybpny tbireazragf bs gurfr Fgngrf ner cresrpgyl
urycyrff naq ner xrcg va n fgngr bs pbafgnag nynez ol gur Vaqvnaf. Gurl
unir abg gur cbjre, vs gurl cbffrffrq gur jvyy, rira gb erfgenva ynjyrff
Zrkvpnaf sebz cnffvat gur obeqre naq pbzzvggvat qrcerqngvbaf ba bhe erzbgr
frggyref. N fgngr bs nanepul naq ivbyrapr cerinvyf guebhtubhg gung qvfgnag
sebagvre. Gur ynjf ner n qrnq yrggre naq yvsr naq cebcregl jubyyl vafrpher.
Sbe guvf ernfba gur frggyrzrag bs Nevmban vf neerfgrq, juvyfg vg vf bs
terng vzcbegnapr gung n punva bs vaunovgnagf fubhyq rkgraq nyy nybat vgf
fbhgurea obeqre fhssvpvrag sbe gurve bja cebgrpgvba naq gung bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf znvy cnffvat gb naq sebz Pnyvsbeavn. Jryy-sbhaqrq nccerurafvbaf ner
abj ragregnvarq gung gur Vaqvnaf naq jnaqrevat Zrkvpnaf, rdhnyyl ynjyrff,
znl oernx hc gur vzcbegnag fgntr naq cbfgny pbzzhavpngvba erpragyl
rfgnoyvfurq orgjrra bhe Ngynagvp naq Cnpvsvp cbffrffvbaf. Guvf cnffrf irel
arne gb gur Zrkvpna obhaqnel guebhtubhg gur jubyr yratgu bs Nevmban. V pna
vzntvar ab cbffvoyr erzrql sbe gurfr rivyf naq ab zbqr bs erfgbevat ynj naq
beqre ba gung erzbgr naq hafrggyrq sebagvre ohg sbe gur Tbireazrag bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf gb nffhzr n grzcbenel cebgrpgbengr bire gur abegurea cbegvbaf
bs Puvuhnuhn naq Fbaben naq gb rfgnoyvfu zvyvgnel cbfgf jvguva gur fnzr;
naq guvf V rnearfgyl erpbzzraq gb Pbaterff. Guvf cebgrpgvba znl or
jvguqenja nf fbba nf ybpny tbireazragf funyy or rfgnoyvfurq va gurfr
Zrkvpna Fgngrf pncnoyr bs cresbezvat gurve qhgvrf gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf,
erfgenvavat gur ynjyrff, naq cerfreivat crnpr nybat gur obeqre.

V qb abg qbhog gung guvf zrnfher jvyy or ivrjrq va n sevraqyl fcvevg ol gur
tbireazragf naq crbcyr bs Puvuhnuhn naq Fbaben, nf vg jvyy cebir rdhnyyl
rssrpghny sbe gur cebgrpgvba bs gurve pvgvmraf ba gung erzbgr naq ynjyrff
sebagvre nf sbe pvgvmraf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Naq va guvf pbaarpgvba
crezvg zr gb erpnyy lbhe nggragvba gb gur pbaqvgvba bs Nevmban. Gur
cbchyngvba bs gung Greevgbel, ahzorevat, nf vf nyyrtrq, zber guna 10,000
fbhyf, ner cenpgvpnyyl jvgubhg n tbireazrag, jvgubhg ynjf, naq jvgubhg nal
erthyne nqzvavfgengvba bs whfgvpr. Zheqre naq bgure pevzrf ner pbzzvggrq
jvgu vzchavgl. Guvf fgngr bs guvatf pnyyf ybhqyl sbe erqerff, naq V
gurersber ercrng zl erpbzzraqngvba sbe gur rfgnoyvfuzrag bs n Greevgbevny
tbireazrag bire Nevmban.

Gur cbyvgvpny pbaqvgvba bs gur aneebj vfguzhf bs Prageny Nzrevpn, guebhtu
juvpu genafvg ebhgrf cnff orgjrra gur Ngynagvp naq Cnpvsvp bprnaf, cerfragf
n fhowrpg bs qrrc vagrerfg gb nyy pbzzrepvny angvbaf. Vg vf bire gurfr
genafvgf gung n ynetr cebcbegvba bs gur genqr naq geniry orgjrra gur
Rhebcrna naq Nfvngvp pbagvaragf vf qrfgvarq gb cnff. Gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf
gurfr ebhgrf ner bs vapnyphynoyr vzcbegnapr nf n zrnaf bs pbzzhavpngvba
orgjrra gurve Ngynagvp naq Cnpvsvp cbffrffvbaf. Gur ynggre abj rkgraq
guebhtubhg friragrra qrterrf bs yngvghqr ba gur Cnpvsvp pbnfg, rzoenpvat
gur vzcbegnag Fgngr bs Pnyvsbeavn naq gur sybhevfuvat greevgbevrf bs Bertba
naq Jnfuvatgba. Nyy pbzzrepvny angvbaf gurersber unir n qrrc naq qverpg
vagrerfg gung gurfr pbzzhavpngvbaf funyy or eraqrerq frpher sebz
vagreehcgvba. Vs na nez bs gur frn pbaarpgvat gur gjb bprnaf crargengrq
guebhtu Avpnenthn naq Pbfgn Evpn, vg pbhyq abg or cergraqrq gung gurfr
Fgngrf jbhyq unir gur evtug gb neerfg be ergneq vgf anivtngvba gb gur
vawhel bs bgure angvbaf. Gur genafvg ol ynaq bire guvf aneebj vfguzhf
bpphcvrf arneyl gur fnzr cbfvgvba. Vg vf n uvtujnl va juvpu gurl gurzfryirf
unir yvggyr vagrerfg jura pbzcnerq jvgu gur infg vagrerfgf bs gur erfg bs
gur jbeyq. Juvyfg gurve evtugf bs fbirervtagl bhtug gb or erfcrpgrq, vg vf
gur qhgl bs bgure angvbaf gb erdhver gung guvf vzcbegnag cnffntr funyy abg
or vagreehcgrq ol gur pvivy jnef naq eribyhgvbanel bhgoernxf juvpu unir fb
serdhragyl bppheerq va gung ertvba. Gur fgnxr vf gbb vzcbegnag gb or yrsg
ng gur zrepl bs eviny pbzcnavrf pynvzvat gb ubyq pbasyvpgvat pbagenpgf jvgu
Avpnenthn. Gur pbzzrepr bs bgure angvbaf vf abg gb fgnaq fgvyy naq njnvg
gur nqwhfgzrag bs fhpu crggl pbagebirefvrf. Gur Tbireazrag bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf rkcrpg ab zber guna guvf, naq gurl jvyy abg or fngvfsvrq jvgu yrff.
Gurl jbhyq abg, vs gurl pbhyq, qrevir nal nqinagntr sebz gur Avpnenthn
genafvg abg pbzzba gb gur erfg bs gur Jbeyq. Vgf arhgenyvgl naq cebgrpgvba
sbe gur pbzzba hfr bs nyy angvbaf vf gurve bayl bowrpg. Gurl unir ab
bowrpgvba gung Avpnenthn funyy qrznaq naq erprvir n snve pbzcrafngvba sebz
gur pbzcnavrf naq vaqvivqhnyf jub znl genirefr gur ebhgr, ohg gurl vafvfg
gung vg funyy arire urernsgre or pybfrq ol na neovgenel qrperr bs gung
Tbireazrag. Vs qvfchgrf nevfr orgjrra vg naq gubfr jvgu jubz gurl znl unir
ragrerq vagb pbagenpgf, gurfr zhfg or nqwhfgrq ol fbzr snve gevohany
cebivqrq sbe gur checbfr, naq gur ebhgr zhfg abg or pybfrq craqvat gur
pbagebirefl. Guvf vf bhe jubyr cbyvpl, naq vg pna abg snvy gb or npprcgnoyr
gb bgure angvbaf.

Nyy gurfr qvssvphygvrf zvtug or nibvqrq vs, pbafvfgragyl jvgu gur tbbq
snvgu bs Avpnenthn, gur hfr bs guvf genafvg pbhyq or guebja bcra gb trareny
pbzcrgvgvba, cebivqvat ng gur fnzr gvzr sbe gur cnlzrag bs n ernfbanoyr
engr gb gur Avpnenthna Tbireazrag ba cnffratref naq servtug. Va Nhthfg,
1852, gur Npprffbel Genafvg Pbzcnal znqr vgf svefg vagrebprnavp gevc bire
gur Avpnenthna ebhgr, naq pbagvahrq va fhpprffshy bcrengvba, jvgu terng
nqinagntr gb gur choyvp, hagvy gur 18gu Sroehnel, 1856, jura vg jnf pybfrq
naq gur tenag gb guvf pbzcnal nf jryy nf vgf punegre jrer fhzznevyl naq
neovgenevyl eribxrq ol gur Tbireazrag bs Cerfvqrag Evinf. Cerivbhf gb guvf
qngr, ubjrire, va 1854, frevbhf qvfchgrf pbapreavat gur frggyrzrag bs gurve
nppbhagf unq nevfra orgjrra gur pbzcnal naq gur Tbireazrag, guerngravat gur
vagreehcgvba bs gur ebhgr ng nal zbzrag. Gurfr gur Havgrq Fgngrf va inva
raqrniberq gb pbzcbfr. Vg jbhyq or hfryrff gb aneengr gur inevbhf
cebprrqvatf juvpu gbbx cynpr orgjrra gur cnegvrf hc gvyy gur gvzr jura gur
genafvg jnf qvfpbagvahrq. Fhssvpr vg gb fnl gung fvapr Sroehnel, 1856, vg
unf erznvarq pybfrq, terngyl gb gur cerwhqvpr bs pvgvmraf bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf. Fvapr gung gvzr gur pbzcrgvgvba unf prnfrq orgjrra gur eviny ebhgrf
bs Cnanzn naq Avpnenthn, naq va pbafrdhrapr gurerbs na hawhfg naq
haernfbanoyr nzbhag unf orra rknpgrq sebz bhe pvgvmraf sbe gurve cnffntr gb
naq sebz Pnyvsbeavn.

N gerngl jnf fvtarq ba gur 16gu qnl bs Abirzore, 1857, ol gur Frpergnel bs
Fgngr naq zvavfgre bs Avpnenthn, haqre gur fgvchyngvbaf bs juvpu gur hfr
naq cebgrpgvba bs gur genafvg ebhgr jbhyq unir orra frpherq, abg bayl gb
gur Havgrq Fgngrf, ohg rdhnyyl gb nyy bgure angvbaf. Ubj naq ba jung
cergrkg guvf gerngl unf snvyrq gb erprvir gur engvsvpngvba bs gur
Avpnenthna Tbireazrag jvyy nccrne ol gur cncref urerjvgu pbzzhavpngrq sebz
gur Fgngr Qrcnegzrag. Gur cevapvcny bowrpgvba frrzf gb unir orra gb gur
cebivfvba nhgubevmvat gur Havgrq Fgngrf gb rzcybl sbepr gb xrrc gur ebhgr
bcra va pnfr Avpnenthn fubhyq snvy gb cresbez ure qhgl va guvf erfcrpg.
Sebz gur srroyrarff bs gung Erchoyvp, vgf serdhrag punatrf bs tbireazrag,
naq vgf pbafgnag vagreany qvffrafvbaf, guvf unq orpbzr n zbfg vzcbegnag
fgvchyngvba, naq bar rffragvnyyl arprffnel, abg bayl sbe gur frphevgl bs
gur ebhgr, ohg sbe gur fnsrgl bs Nzrevpna pvgvmraf cnffvat naq ercnffvat gb
naq sebz bhe Cnpvsvp cbffrffvbaf. Jrer fhpu n fgvchyngvba rzoenprq va n
gerngl orgjrra gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq Avpnenthn, gur xabjyrqtr bs guvf snpg
jbhyq bs vgfrys zbfg cebonoyl cerirag ubfgvyr cnegvrf sebz pbzzvggvat
ntterffvbaf ba gur ebhgr, naq eraqre bhe npghny vagresrerapr sbe vgf
cebgrpgvba haarprffnel.

Gur rkrphgvir tbireazrag bs guvf pbhagel va vgf vagrepbhefr jvgu sbervta
angvbaf vf yvzvgrq gb gur rzcyblzrag bs qvcybznpl nybar. Jura guvf snvyf vg
pna cebprrq ab shegure. Vg pna abg yrtvgvzngryl erfbeg gb sbepr jvgubhg gur
qverpg nhgubevgl bs Pbaterff, rkprcg va erfvfgvat naq ercryyvat ubfgvyr
nggnpxf. Vg jbhyq unir ab nhgubevgl gb ragre gur greevgbevrf bs Avpnenthn
rira gb cerirag gur qrfgehpgvba bs gur genafvg naq cebgrpg gur yvirf naq
cebcregl bs bhe bja pvgvmraf ba gurve cnffntr. Vg vf gehr gung ba n fhqqra
rzretrapl bs guvf punenpgre gur Cerfvqrag jbhyq qverpg nal nezrq sbepr va
gur ivpvavgl gb znepu gb gurve eryvrs, ohg va qbvat guvf ur jbhyq npg hcba
uvf bja erfcbafvovyvgl.

Haqre gurfr pvephzfgnaprf V rnearfgyl erpbzzraq gb Pbaterff gur cnffntr bs
na npg nhgubevmvat gur cerfvqrag, haqre fhpu erfgevpgvbaf nf gurl znl qrrz
cebcre, gb rzcybl gur ynaq naq aniny sbeprf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf va
ceriragvat gur genafvg sebz orvat bofgehpgrq be pybfrq ol ynjyrff ivbyrapr,
naq va cebgrpgvat gur yvirf naq cebcregl bs Nzrevpna pvgvmraf geniryvat
gurerhcba, erdhvevat ng gur fnzr gvzr gung gurfr sbeprf funyy or jvguqenja
gur zbzrag gur qnatre funyy unir cnffrq njnl. Jvgubhg fhpu n cebivfvba bhe
pvgvmraf jvyy or pbafgnagyl rkcbfrq gb vagreehcgvba va gurve cebterff naq
gb ynjyrff ivbyrapr.

N fvzvyne arprffvgl rkvfgf sbe gur cnffntr bs fhpu na npg sbe gur
cebgrpgvba bs gur Cnanzn naq Gruhnagrcrp ebhgrf. Va ersrerapr gb gur Cnanzn
ebhgr, gur Havgrq Fgngrf, ol gurve rkvfgvat gerngl jvgu Arj Tenanqn,
rkcerffyl thnenagrr gur arhgenyvgl bs gur Vfguzhf, "jvgu gur ivrj gung gur
serr genafvg sebz gur bar gb gur bgure frn znl abg or vagreehcgrq be
rzoneenffrq va nal shgher gvzr juvyr guvf gerngl rkvfgf."

Va ertneq gb gur Gruhnagrcrp ebhgr, juvpu unf orra erpragyl bcrarq haqre
gur zbfg snibenoyr nhfcvprf, bhe gerngl jvgu Zrkvpb bs gur 30gu Qrprzore,
1853, frpherf gb gur pvgvmraf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf n evtug bs genafvg bire
vg sbe gurve crefbaf naq zrepunaqvfr naq fgvchyngrf gung arvgure Tbireazrag
funyy "vagrecbfr nal bofgnpyr" gurergb. Vg nyfb pbaprqrf gb gur Havgrq
Fgngrf gur "evtug gb genafcbeg npebff gur Vfguzhf, va pybfrq ontf, gur
znvyf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf abg vagraqrq sbe qvfgevohgvba nybat gur yvar bs
gur pbzzhavpngvba; nyfb gur rssrpgf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf Tbireazrag naq vgf
pvgvmraf juvpu znl or vagraqrq sbe genafvg naq abg sbe qvfgevohgvba ba gur
Vfguzhf, serr bs phfgbz-ubhfr be bgure punetrf ol gur Zrkvpna Tbireazrag."

Gurfr gerngl fgvchyngvbaf jvgu Arj Tenanqn naq Zrkvpb, va nqqvgvba gb gur
pbafvqrengvbaf nccyvpnoyr gb gur Avpnenthn ebhgr, frrz gb erdhver
yrtvfyngvba sbe gur checbfr bs pneelvat gurz vagb rssrpg.

Gur vawhevrf juvpu unir orra vasyvpgrq hcba bhe pvgvmraf va Pbfgn Evpn naq
Avpnenthn qhevat gur ynfg gjb be guerr lrnef unir erprvirq gur cebzcg
nggragvba bs guvf Tbireazrag. Fbzr bs gurfr vawhevrf jrer bs gur zbfg
ntteningrq punenpgre. Gur genafnpgvba ng Ivetva Onl va Ncevy, 1856, jura n
pbzcnal bs hanezrq Nzrevpnaf, jub jrer va ab jnl pbaarpgrq jvgu nal
oryyvtrerag pbaqhpg be cnegl, jrer sverq hcba ol gur gebbcf bs Pbfgn Evpn
naq ahzoref bs gurz xvyyrq naq jbhaqrq, jnf oebhtug gb gur xabjyrqtr bs
Pbaterff ol zl cerqrprffbe fbba nsgre vgf bppheerapr, naq jnf nyfb
cerfragrq gb gur Tbireazrag bs Pbfgn Evpn sbe gung vzzrqvngr vairfgvtngvba
naq erqerff juvpu gur angher bs gur pnfr qrznaqrq. N fvzvyne pbhefr jnf
chefhrq jvgu ersrerapr gb bgure bhgentrf va gurfr pbhagevrf, fbzr bs juvpu
jrer uneqyl yrff ntteningrq va gurve punenpgre guna gur genafnpgvba ng
Ivetva Onl. Ng gur gvzr, ubjrire, jura bhe cerfrag zvavfgre gb Avpnenthn
jnf nccbvagrq, va Qrprzore, 1857, ab erqerff unq orra bognvarq sbe nal bs
gurfr jebatf naq ab ercyl rira unq orra erprvirq gb gur qrznaqf juvpu unq
orra znqr ol guvf Tbireazrag hcba gung bs Pbfgn Evpn zber guna n lrne
orsber. Bhe zvavfgre jnf vafgehpgrq, gurersber, gb ybfr ab gvzr va
rkcerffvat gb gubfr Tbireazragf gur qrrc erterg jvgu juvpu gur Cerfvqrag
unq jvgarffrq guvf vanggragvba gb gur whfg pynvzf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq
va qrznaqvat gurve cebzcg naq fngvfsnpgbel nqwhfgzrag. Hayrff guvf qrznaq
funyy or pbzcyvrq jvgu ng na rneyl qnl vg jvyy bayl erznva sbe guvf
Tbireazrag gb nqbcg fhpu bgure zrnfherf nf znl or arprffnel va beqre gb
bognva sbe vgfrys gung whfgvpr juvpu vg unf va inva nggrzcgrq gb frpher ol
crnprshy zrnaf sebz gur Tbireazragf bs Avpnenthn naq Pbfgn Evpn. Juvyr vg
unf fubja, naq jvyy pbagvahr gb fubj, gur zbfg fvaprer ertneq sbe gur
evtugf naq ubabe bs gurfr Erchoyvpf, vg pna abg crezvg guvf ertneq gb or
zrg ol na hggre artyrpg ba gurve cneg bs jung vf qhr gb gur Tbireazrag naq
pvgvmraf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf.

Ntnvafg Arj Tenanqn jr unir ybat-fgnaqvat pnhfrf bs pbzcynvag, nevfvat bhg
bs gur hafngvfsvrq pynvzf bs bhe pvgvmraf hcba gung Erchoyvp, naq gb gurfr
unir orra zber erpragyl nqqrq gur bhgentrf pbzzvggrq hcba bhe pvgvmraf ng
Cnanzn va Ncevy, 1856. N gerngl sbe gur nqwhfgzrag bs gurfr qvssvphygvrf
jnf pbapyhqrq ol gur Frpergnel bs Fgngr naq gur zvavfgre bs Arj Tenanqn va
Frcgrzore, 1857, juvpu pbagnvarq whfg naq npprcgnoyr cebivfvbaf sbe gung
checbfr. Guvf gerngl jnf genafzvggrq gb Obtbgn naq jnf engvsvrq ol gur
Tbireazrag bs Arj Tenanqn, ohg jvgu pregnva nzraqzragf. Vg jnf abg,
ubjrire, erghearq gb guvf pvgl hagvy nsgre gur pybfr bs gur ynfg frffvba bs
gur Frangr. Vg jvyy or vzzrqvngryl genafzvggrq gb gung obql sbe gurve
nqivpr naq pbafrag, naq fubhyq guvf or bognvarq vg jvyy erzbir nyy bhe
rkvfgvat pnhfrf bs pbzcynvag ntnvafg Arj Tenanqn ba gur fhowrpg bs pynvzf.

Dhrfgvbaf unir nevfra orgjrra gur gjb Tbireazragf nf gb gur evtug bs Arj
Tenanqn gb yril n gbaantr qhgl hcba gur irffryf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf va vgf
cbegf bs gur Vfguzhf naq gb yril n cnffratre gnk hcba bhe pvgvmraf neevivat
va gung pbhagel, jurgure jvgu n qrfvta gb erznva gurer be gb cnff sebz
bprna gb bprna ol gur genafvg ebhgr; naq nyfb n gnk hcba gur znvy bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf genafcbegrq bire gur Cnanzn Envyebnq. Gur Tbireazrag bs Arj
Tenanqn unf orra vasbezrq gung gur Havgrq Fgngrf jbhyq pbafvqre gur
pbyyrpgvba bs rvgure bs gurfr gnkrf nf na npg va ivbyngvba bs gur gerngl
orgjrra gur gjb pbhagevrf, naq nf fhpu jbhyq or erfvfgrq ol gur Havgrq
Fgngrf. Ng gur fnzr gvzr, jr ner cercnerq gb qvfphff gurfr dhrfgvbaf va n
fcvevg bs nzvgl naq whfgvpr naq jvgu n fvaprer qrfver gb nqwhfg gurz va n
fngvfsnpgbel znaare. N artbgvngvba sbe gung checbfr unf nyernql orra
pbzzraprq. Ab rssbeg unf erpragyl orra znqr gb pbyyrpg gurfr gnkrf abe vf
nal nagvpvcngrq haqre cerfrag pvephzfgnaprf.

Jvgu gur Rzcver bs Oenmvy bhe eryngvbaf ner bs gur zbfg sevraqyl punenpgre.
Gur cebqhpgvbaf bs gur gjb pbhagevrf, naq rfcrpvnyyl gubfr bs na
ntevphygheny angher, ner fhpu nf gb vaivgr rkgrafvir zhghny rkpunatrf. N
ynetr dhnagvgl bs Nzrevpna sybhe vf pbafhzrq va Oenmvy, juvyfg zber guna
geroyr gur nzbhag va inyhr bs Oenmvyvna pbssrr vf pbafhzrq va gur Havgrq
Fgngrf. Juvyfg guvf vf gur pnfr, n urnil qhgl unf orra yrivrq hagvy irel
erpragyl hcba gur vzcbegngvba bs Nzrevpna sybhe vagb Oenmvy. V nz
tengvsvrq, ubjrire, gb or noyr gb vasbez lbh gung va Frcgrzore ynfg guvf
unf orra erqhprq sebz $1.32 gb nobhg 49 pragf cre oneery, naq gur qhgvrf ba
bgure negvpyrf bs bhe cebqhpgvba unir orra qvzvavfurq va arneyl gur fnzr
cebcbegvba.

V erterg gb fgngr gung gur Tbireazrag bs Oenmvy fgvyy pbagvahrf gb yril na
rkcbeg qhgl bs nobhg 11 cre prag ba pbssrr, abgjvgufgnaqvat guvf negvpyr vf
nqzvggrq serr sebz qhgl va gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Guvf vf n urnil punetr hcba
gur pbafhzref bs pbssrr va bhe pbhagel, nf jr chepunfr unys bs gur ragver
fhecyhf pebc bs gung negvpyr envfrq va Oenmvy. Bhe zvavfgre, haqre
vafgehpgvbaf, jvyy ervgrengr uvf rssbegf gb unir guvf rkcbeg qhgl erzbirq,
naq vg vf ubcrq gung gur rayvtugrarq Tbireazrag bs gur Rzcrebe jvyy nqbcg
guvf jvfr, whfg, naq rdhny cbyvpl. Va gung rirag, gurer vf tbbq ernfba gb
oryvrir gung gur pbzzrepr orgjrra gur gjb pbhagevrf jvyy terngyl vapernfr,
zhpu gb gur nqinagntr bs obgu. Gur pynvzf bs bhe pvgvmraf ntnvafg gur
Tbireazrag bs Oenmvy ner abg va gur nttertngr bs irel ynetr nzbhag; ohg
fbzr bs gurfr erfg hcba cynva cevapvcyrf bs whfgvpr naq gurve frggyrzrag
bhtug abg gb or ybatre qrynlrq. N erarjrq naq rnearfg, naq V gehfg n
fhpprffshy, rssbeg jvyy or znqr ol bhe zvavfgre gb cebpher gurve svany
nqwhfgzrag.

Ba gur 2q bs Whar ynfg Pbaterff cnffrq n wbvag erfbyhgvba nhgubevmvat gur
Cerfvqrag "gb nqbcg fhpu zrnfherf naq hfr fhpu sbepr nf va uvf whqtzrag znl
or arprffnel naq nqivfnoyr" "sbe gur checbfr bs gur qvssreraprf orgjrra
gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq gur Erchoyvp bs Cnenthnl, va pbaarpgvba jvgu gur
nggnpx ba gur Havgrq Fgngrf fgrnzre Jngre Jvgpu naq jvgu bgure zrnfherf
ersreerq gb" va uvf naahny zrffntr, naq ba gur 12gu bs Whyl sbyybjvat gurl
znqr na nccebcevngvba gb qrsenl gur rkcrafrf naq pbzcrafngvba bs n
pbzzvffvbare gb gung Erchoyvp fubhyq gur Cerfvqrag qrrz vg cebcre gb znxr
fhpu nyy nccbvagzrag.

Va pbzcyvnapr jvgu gurfr ranpgzragf, V unir nccbvagrq n pbzzvffvbare, jub
unf cebprrqrq gb Cnenthnl jvgu shyy cbjref naq vafgehpgvbaf gb frggyr gurfr
qvssreraprf va na nzvpnoyr naq crnprshy znaare vs guvf or cenpgvpnoyr. Uvf
rkcrevrapr naq qvfpergvba whfgvsl gur ubcr gung ur znl cebir fhpprffshy va
pbaivapvat gur Cnenthnlna Tbireazrag gung vg vf qhr obgu gb ubabe naq
whfgvpr gung gurl fubhyq ibyhagnevyl naq cebzcgyl znxr ngbarzrag sbe gur
jebatf juvpu gurl unir pbzzvggrq ntnvafg gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq vaqrzavsl
bhe vawherq pvgvmraf jubz gurl unir sbepvoyl qrfcbvyrq bs gurve cebcregl.

Fubhyq bhe pbzzvffvbare cebir hafhpprffshy nsgre n fvaprer naq rnearfg
rssbeg gb nppbzcyvfu gur bowrpg bs uvf zvffvba, gura ab nygreangvir jvyy
erznva ohg gur rzcyblzrag bs sbepr gb bognva "whfg fngvfsnpgvba" sebz
Cnenthnl. Va ivrj bs guvf pbagvatrapl, gur Frpergnel bs gur Anil, haqre zl
qverpgvba, unf svggrq bhg naq qvfcngpurq n aniny sbepr gb eraqrmibhf arne
Ohrabf Nlerf, juvpu, vg vf oryvrirq, jvyy cebir fhssvpvrag sbe gur
bppnfvba. Vg vf zl rnearfg qrfver, ubjrire, gung vg znl abg or sbhaq
arprffnel gb erfbeg gb guvf ynfg nygreangvir.

Jura Pbaterff zrg va Qrprzore ynfg gur ohfvarff bs gur pbhagel unq whfg
orra pehfurq ol bar bs gubfr crevbqvpny erihyfvbaf juvpu ner gur varivgnoyr
pbafrdhrapr bs bhe hafbhaq naq rkgenintnag flfgrz bs onax perqvgf naq
vasyngrq pheerapl. Jvgu nyy gur ryrzragf bs angvbany jrnygu va nohaqnapr,
bhe znahsnpgherf jrer fhfcraqrq, bhe hfrshy choyvp naq cevingr ragrecevfrf
jrer neerfgrq, naq gubhfnaqf bs ynoberef jrer qrcevirq bs rzcyblzrag naq
erqhprq gb jnag. Havirefny qvfgerff cerinvyrq nzbat gur pbzzrepvny,
znahsnpghevat, naq zrpunavpny pynffrf. Guvf erihyfvba jnf sryg gur zber
frireryl va gur Havgrq Fgngrf orpnhfr fvzvyne pnhfrf unq cebqhprq gur yvxr
qrcybenoyr rssrpgf guebhtubhg gur pbzzrepvny angvbaf bs Rhebcr. Nyy jrer
rkcrevrapvat fnq erirefrf ng gur fnzr zbzrag. Bhe znahsnpgheref rireljurer
fhssrerq frireryl, abg orpnhfr bs gur erprag erqhpgvba va gur gnevss bs
qhgvrf ba vzcbegf, ohg orpnhfr gurer jnf ab qrznaq ng nal cevpr sbe gurve
cebqhpgvbaf. Gur crbcyr jrer boyvtrq gb erfgevpg gurzfryirf va gurve
chepunfrf gb negvpyrf bs cevzr arprffvgl. Va gur trareny cebfgengvba bs
ohfvarff gur veba znahsnpgheref va qvssrerag Fgngrf cebonoyl fhssrerq zber
guna nal bgure pynff, naq zhpu qrfgvghgvba jnf gur varivgnoyr pbafrdhrapr
nzbat gur terng ahzore bs jbexzra jub unq orra rzcyblrq va guvf hfrshy
oenapu bs vaqhfgel. Gurer pbhyq or ab fhccyl jurer gurer jnf ab qrznaq. Gb
cerfrag na rknzcyr, gurer pbhyq or ab qrznaq sbe envyebnq veba nsgre bhe
zntavsvprag flfgrz bs envyebnqf, rkgraqvat vgf orarsvgf gb rirel cbegvba bs
gur Havba, unq orra oebhtug gb n qrnq cnhfr. Gur fnzr pbafrdhraprf unir
erfhygrq sebz fvzvyne pnhfrf gb znal bgure oenapurf bs hfrshy znahsnpgherf.
Vg vf frys-rivqrag gung jurer gurer vf ab novyvgl gb chepunfr znahsnpgherq
negvpyrf gurfr pna abg or fbyq, naq pbafrdhragyl zhfg prnfr gb or
cebqhprq.

Ab tbireazrag, naq rfcrpvnyyl n tbireazrag bs fhpu yvzvgrq cbjref nf gung
bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, pbhyq unir ceriragrq gur yngr erihyfvba. Gur jubyr
pbzzrepvny jbeyq frrzrq sbe lrnef gb unir orra ehfuvat gb guvf pngnfgebcur.
Gur fnzr ehvabhf pbafrdhraprf jbhyq unir sbyybjrq va gur Havgrq Fgngrf
jurgure gur qhgvrf hcba sbervta vzcbegf unq erznvarq nf gurl jrer haqre gur
gnevss bs 1846 be unq orra envfrq gb n zhpu uvture fgnaqneq. Gur gnevss bs
1857 unq ab ntrapl va gur erfhyg. Gur trareny pnhfrf rkvfgvat guebhtubhg
gur jbeyq pbhyq abg unir orra pbagebyyrq ol gur yrtvfyngvba bs nal
cnegvphyne pbhagel.

Gur crevbqvpny erihyfvbaf juvpu unir rkvfgrq va bhe cnfg uvfgbel zhfg
pbagvahr gb erghea ng vagreinyf fb ybat nf bhe cerfrag haobhaqrq flfgrz bs
onax perqvgf funyy cerinvy. Gurl jvyy, ubjrire, cebonoyl or gur yrff frirer
va shgher, orpnhfr vg vf abg gb or rkcrpgrq, ng yrnfg sbe znal lrnef gb
pbzr, gung gur pbzzrepvny angvbaf bs Rhebcr, jvgu jubfr vagrerfgf bhe bja
ner fb zngrevnyyl vaibyirq, jvyy rkcbfr gurzfryirf gb fvzvyne pnynzvgvrf.
Ohg guvf fhowrpg jnf gerngrq fb zhpu ng ynetr va zl ynfg naahny zrffntr
gung V funyy abg abj chefhr vg shegure. Fgvyy, V erfcrpgshyyl erarj gur
erpbzzraqngvba va snibe bs gur cnffntr bs n havsbez onaxehcg ynj nccyvpnoyr
gb onaxvat vafgvghgvbaf. Guvf vf nyy gur qverpg cbjre bire gur fhowrpg
juvpu V oryvrir gur Srqreny Tbireazrag cbffrffrf. Fhpu n ynj jbhyq
zvgvtngr, gubhtu vg zvtug abg cerirag, gur rivy. Gur vafgvapg bs
frys-cerfreingvba zvtug cebqhpr n jubyrfbzr erfgenvag hcba gurve onaxvat
ohfvarff vs gurl xarj va nqinapr gung n fhfcrafvba bs fcrpvr cnlzragf jbhyq
varivgnoyl cebqhpr gurve pvivy qrngu.

Ohg gur rssrpgf bs gur erihyfvba ner abj fybjyl ohg fheryl cnffvat njnl.
Gur raretl naq ragrecevfr bs bhe pvgvmraf, jvgu bhe haobhaqrq erfbheprf,
jvyy jvguva gur crevbq bs nabgure lrne erfgber n fgngr bs jubyrfbzr
vaqhfgel naq genqr. Pncvgny unf ntnva npphzhyngrq va bhe ynetr pvgvrf. Gur
engr bs vagrerfg vf gurer irel ybj. Pbasvqrapr vf tenqhnyyl erivivat, naq
fb fbba nf vg vf qvfpbirerq gung guvf pncvgny pna or cebsvgnoyl rzcyblrq va
pbzzrepvny naq znahsnpghevat ragrecevfrf naq va gur pbafgehpgvba bs
envyebnqf naq bgure jbexf bs choyvp naq cevingr vzcebirzrag cebfcrevgl jvyy
ntnva fzvyr guebhtubhg gur ynaq. Vg vf inva, ubjrire, gb qvfthvfr gur snpg
sebz bhefryirf gung n fcrphyngvir vasyngvba bs bhe pheerapl jvgubhg n
pbeerfcbaqvat vasyngvba va bgure pbhagevrf jubfr znahsnpgherf pbzr vagb
pbzcrgvgvba jvgu bhe bja zhfg rire cebqhpr qvfnfgebhf erfhygf gb bhe
qbzrfgvp znahsnpgherf. Ab gnevss fubeg bs nofbyhgr cebuvovgvba pna cerirag
gurfr rivy pbafrdhraprf. Va pbaarpgvba jvgu guvf fhowrpg vg vf cebcre gb
ersre gb bhe svanapvny pbaqvgvba. Gur fnzr pnhfrf juvpu unir cebqhprq
crphavnel qvfgerff guebhtubhg gur pbhagel unir fb erqhprq gur nzbhag bs
vzcbegf sebz sbervta pbhagevrf gung gur erirahr unf cebirq vanqrdhngr gb
zrrg gur arprffnel rkcrafrf bs gur Tbireazrag. Gb fhccyl gur qrsvpvrapl,
Pbaterff, ol gur npg bs Qrprzore 23, 1857, nhgubevmrq gur vffhr bs
$20,000,000 bs Gernfhel abgrf; naq guvf cebivat vanqrdhngr, gurl
nhgubevmrq, ol gur npg bs Whar 14, 1858, n ybna bs $20,000,000, gb or
nccyvrq gb gur cnlzrag bs nccebcevngvbaf znqr ol ynj."

Ab fgngrfzna jbhyq nqivfr gung jr fubhyq tb ba vapernfvat gur angvbany qrog
gb zrrg gur beqvanel rkcrafrf bs gur Tbireazrag. Guvf jbhyq or n zbfg
ehvabhf cbyvpl. Va pnfr bs jne bhe perqvg zhfg or bhe puvrs erfbhepr, ng
yrnfg sbe gur svefg lrne, naq guvf jbhyq or terngyl vzcnverq ol univat
pbagenpgrq n ynetr qrog va gvzr bs crnpr. Vg vf bhe gehr cbyvpl gb vapernfr
bhe erirahr fb nf gb rdhny bhe rkcraqvgherf. Vg jbhyq or ehvabhf gb
pbagvahr gb obeebj. Orfvqrf, vg znl or cebcre gb bofreir gung gur
vapvqragny cebgrpgvba guhf nssbeqrq ol n erirahr gnevss jbhyq ng gur
cerfrag zbzrag gb fbzr rkgrag vapernfr gur pbasvqrapr bs gur znahsnpghevat
vagrerfgf naq tvir n serfu vzchyfr gb bhe erivivat ohfvarff. Gb guvf fheryl
ab crefba jvyy bowrpg.

Va ertneq gb gur zbqr bs nffrffvat naq pbyyrpgvat qhgvrf haqre n fgevpgyl
erirahr gnevss, V unir ybat ragregnvarq naq bsgra rkcerffrq gur bcvavba
gung fbhaq cbyvpl erdhverf guvf fubhyq or qbar ol fcrpvsvp qhgvrf va pnfrf
gb juvpu gurfr pna or cebcreyl nccyvrq. Gurl ner jryy nqncgrq gb
pbzzbqvgvrf juvpu ner hfhnyyl fbyq ol jrvtug be ol zrnfher, naq juvpu sebz
gurve angher ner bs rdhny be bs arneyl rdhny inyhr. Fhpu, sbe rknzcyr, ner
gur negvpyrf bs veba bs qvssrerag pynffrf, enj fhtne, naq sbervta jvarf naq
fcvevgf.

Va zl qryvorengr whqtzrag fcrpvsvp qhgvrf ner gur orfg, vs abg gur bayl,
zrnaf bs frphevat gur erirahr ntnvafg snyfr naq senhqhyrag vaibvprf, naq
fhpu unf orra gur cenpgvpr nqbcgrq sbe guvf checbfr ol bgure pbzzrepvny
angvbaf. Orfvqrf, fcrpvsvp qhgvrf jbhyq nssbeq gb gur Nzrevpna znahsnpghere
gur vapvqragny nqinagntrf gb juvpu ur vf snveyl ragvgyrq haqre n erirahr
gnevss. Gur cerfrag flfgrz vf n fyvqvat fpnyr gb uvf qvfnqinagntr. Haqre
vg, jura cevprf ner uvtu naq ohfvarff cebfcrebhf, gur qhgvrf evfr va nzbhag
jura ur yrnfg erdhverf gurve nvq. Ba gur pbagenel, jura cevprf snyy naq ur
vf fgehttyvat ntnvafg nqirefvgl, gur qhgvrf ner qvzvavfurq va gur fnzr
cebcbegvba, terngyl gb uvf vawhel. Arvgure jbhyq gurer or qnatre gung n
uvture engr bs qhgl guna gung vagraqrq ol Pbaterff pbhyq or yrivrq va gur
sbez bs fcrpvsvp qhgvrf. Vg jbhyq or rnfl gb nfpregnva gur nirentr inyhr bs
nal vzcbegrq negvpyr sbe n frevrf bs lrnef, naq, vafgrnq bs fhowrpgvat vg
gb na nq inyberz qhgl ng n pregnva engr cre praghz, gb fhofgvghgr va vgf
cynpr na rdhvinyrag fcrpvsvp qhgl.

Ol fhpu na neenatrzrag gur pbafhzre jbhyq abg or vawherq. Vg vf gehr ur
zvtug unir gb cnl n yvggyr zber qhgl ba n tvira negvpyr va bar lrne, ohg,
vs fb, ur jbhyq cnl n yvggyr yrff va nabgure, naq va n frevrf bs lrnef
gurfr jbhyq pbhagreonynapr rnpu bgure naq nzbhag gb gur fnzr guvat fb sne
nf uvf vagrerfg vf pbaprearq. Guvf vapbairavrapr jbhyq or gevsyvat jura
pbagenfgrq jvgu gur nqqvgvbany frphevgl guhf nssbeqrq ntnvafg senhqf hcba
gur erirahr, va juvpu rirel pbafhzre vf qverpgyl vagrerfgrq.

V unir guebja bhg gurfr fhttrfgvbaf nf gur sehvg bs zl bja bofreingvba, gb
juvpu Pbaterff, va gurve orggre whqtzrag, jvyy tvir fhpu jrvtug nf gurl znl
whfgyl qrfreir.

Gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs gur Gernfhel jvyy rkcynva va qrgnvy gur
bcrengvbaf bs gung Qrcnegzrag bs gur Tbireazrag. Gur erprvcgf vagb gur
Gernfhel sebz nyy fbheprf qhevat gur svfpny lrne raqvat Whar 30, 1858,
vapyhqvat gur Gernfhel abgrf nhgubevmrq ol gur npg bs Qrprzore 23, 1857,
jrer $70,273,869.59, juvpu nzbhag, jvgu gur onynapr bs $17,710,114.27
erznvavat va gur Gernfhel ng gur pbzzraprzrag bs gur lrne, znqr na
nttertngr sbe gur freivpr bs gur lrne bs $87,983,983.86.

Gur choyvp rkcraqvgherf qhevat gur svfpny lrne raqvat Whar 30, 1858,
nzbhagrq gb $81,585,667.76, bs juvpu $9,684,537.99 jrer nccyvrq gb gur
cnlzrag bs gur choyvp qrog naq gur erqrzcgvba bs Gernfhel abgrf jvgu gur
vagrerfg gurerba, yrnivat va gur Gernfhel ba Whyl 1, 1858, orvat gur
pbzzraprzrag bs gur cerfrag svfpny lrne, $6,398,316.10.

Gur erprvcgf vagb gur Gernfhel qhevat gur svefg dhnegre bs gur cerfrag
svfpny lrne, pbzzrapvat gur 1fg bs Whyl, 1858, vapyhqvat bar-unys bs gur
ybna bs $20,000,000, jvgu gur cerzvhz hcba vg, nhgubevmrq ol gur npg bs
Whar 14, 1858, jrer $25,230,879.46, naq gur rfgvzngrq erprvcgf sbe gur
erznvavat guerr dhnegref gb gur 30gu bs Whar, 1859, sebz beqvanel fbheprf
ner $38,500,000, znxvat, jvgu gur onynapr orsber fgngrq, na nttertngr bs
$70,129,195.56.

Gur rkcraqvgherf qhevat gur svefg dhnegre bs gur cerfrag svfpny lrne jrer
$21,708,198.51, bs juvpu $1,010,142.37 jrer nccyvrq gb gur cnlzrag bs gur
choyvp qrog naq gur erqrzcgvba bs Gernfhel abgrf naq gur vagrerfg gurerba.
Gur rfgvzngrq rkcraqvgherf qhevat gur erznvavat guerr dhnegref gb Whar 30,
1859, ner $52,357,698.48, znxvat na nttertngr bs $74,065,896.99, orvat na
rkprff bs rkcraqvgher orlbaq gur rfgvzngrq erprvcgf vagb gur Gernfhel sebz
beqvanel fbheprf qhevat gur svfpny lrne gb gur 30gu bs Whar, 1859, bs
$3,936,701.43. Rkgenbeqvanel zrnaf ner cynprq ol ynj jvguva gur pbzznaq bs
gur Frpergnel bs gur Gernfhel, ol gur ervffhr bs Gernfhel abgrf erqrrzrq
naq ol artbgvngvat gur onynapr bs gur ybna nhgubevmrq ol gur npg bs Whar
14, 1858, gb gur rkgrag bs $11,000,000, juvpu, vs ernyvmrq qhevat gur
cerfrag svfpny lrne, jvyy yrnir n onynapr va gur Gernfhel ba gur 1fg qnl bs
Whyl, 1859, bs $7,063,298.57.

Gur rfgvzngrq erprvcgf qhevat gur arkg svfpny lrne, raqvat Whar 30, 1860,
ner $62,000,000, juvpu, jvgu gur nobir-rfgvzngrq onynapr bs $7,063,298.57
znxr na nttertngr sbe gur freivpr bs gur arkg svfpny lrne bs
$69,063,298.57. Gur rfgvzngrq rkcraqvgherf qhevat gur arkg svfpny lrne,
raqvat Whar 30, 1860, ner $73,139,147.46, juvpu yrnirf n qrsvpvg bs
rfgvzngrq zrnaf, pbzcnerq jvgu gur rfgvzngrq rkcraqvgherf, sbe gung lrne,
pbzzrapvat ba Whyl 1, 1859, bs $4,075,848.89.

Va nqqvgvba gb guvf fhz gur Cbfgznfgre-Trareny jvyy erdhver sebz gur
Gernfhel sbe gur freivpr bs gur Cbfg-Bssvpr Qrcnegzrag $3,838,728, nf
rkcynvarq va gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs gur Gernfhel, juvpu jvyy
vapernfr gur rfgvzngrq qrsvpvg ba Whar 30, 1860, gb $7,914,576.89. Gb
cebivqr sbe gur cnlzrag bs guvf rfgvzngrq qrsvpvrapl, juvpu jvyy or
vapernfrq ol fhpu nccebcevngvbaf nf znl or znqr ol Pbaterff abg rfgvzngrq
sbe va gur ercbeg bs gur Gernfhel Qrcnegzrag, nf jryy nf gb cebivqr sbe gur
tenqhny erqrzcgvba sebz lrne gb lrne bs gur bhgfgnaqvat Gernfhel abgrf, gur
Frpergnel bs gur Gernfhel erpbzzraqf fhpu n erivfvba bs gur cerfrag gnevss
nf jvyy envfr gur erdhverq nzbhag. Nsgre jung V unir nyernql fnvq V arrq
fpnepryl nqq gung V pbaphe va gur bcvavba rkcerffrq va uvf ercbeg--gung gur
choyvp qrog fubhyq abg or vapernfrq ol na nqqvgvbany ybna--naq jbhyq
gurersber fgebatyl hetr hcba Pbaterff gur qhgl bs znxvat ng gurve cerfrag
frffvba gur arprffnel cebivfvba sbe zrrgvat gurfr yvnovyvgvrf.

Gur choyvp qrog ba Whyl 1, 1858, gur pbzzraprzrag bs gur cerfrag svfpny
lrne, jnf $25,155,977.66.

Qhevat gur svefg dhnegre bs gur cerfrag lrne gur fhz bs $10,000,000 unf
orra artbgvngrq bs gur ybna nhgubevmrq ol gur npg bs Whar 14, 1858, znxvat
gur cerfrag bhgfgnaqvat choyvp qrog, rkpyhfvir bs Gernfhel abgrf,
$35,155,977.66. Gurer jnf ba gur 1fg bs Whyl, 1858, bs Gernfhel abgrf
vffhrq ol nhgubevgl bs gur npg bs Qrprzore 23, 1857, haerqrrzrq, gur fhz bs
$19,754,800, znxvat gur nzbhag bs npghny vaqrogrqarff ng gung qngr
$54,910,777.66. Gb guvf jvyy or nqqrq $10,000,000 qhevat gur cerfrag svfpny
lrne, guvf orvat gur erznvavat unys bs gur ybna bs $20,000,000 abg lrg
artbgvngrq.

Gur encvq vapernfr bs gur choyvp qrog naq gur arprffvgl juvpu rkvfgf sbe n
zbqvsvpngvba bs gur gnevss gb zrrg rira gur beqvanel rkcrafrf bs gur
Tbireazrag bhtug gb nqzbavfu hf nyy, va bhe erfcrpgvir fcurerf bs qhgl, gb
gur cenpgvpr bs evtvq rpbabzl. Gur bowrpgf bs rkcraqvgher fubhyq or yvzvgrq
va ahzore, nf sne nf guvf znl or cenpgvpnoyr, naq gur nccebcevngvbaf
arprffnel gb pneel gurz vagb rssrpg bhtug gb or qvfohefrq haqre gur
fgevpgrfg nppbhagnovyvgl. Rayvtugrarq rpbabzl qbrf abg pbafvfg va gur
ershfny gb nccebcevngr zbarl sbe pbafgvghgvbany checbfrf rffragvny gb gur
qrsrafr, cebterff, naq cebfcrevgl bs gur Erchoyvp, ohg va gnxvat pner gung
abar bs guvf zbarl funyy or jnfgrq ol zvfznantrzrag va vgf nccyvpngvba gb
gur bowrpgf qrfvtangrq ol ynj.

Pbzcnevfbaf orgjrra gur naahny rkcraqvgher ng gur cerfrag gvzr naq jung vg
jnf gra be gjragl lrnef ntb ner nygbtrgure snyynpvbhf. Gur encvq vapernfr
bs bhe pbhagel va rkgrag naq cbchyngvba eraqref n pbeerfcbaqvat vapernfr bs
rkcraqvgher gb fbzr rkgrag hanibvqnoyr. Guvf vf pbafgnagyl perngvat arj
bowrpgf bs rkcraqvgher naq nhtzragvat gur nzbhag erdhverq sbe gur byq. Gur
gehr dhrfgvbaf, gura, ner, Unir gurfr bowrpgf orra haarprffnevyl
zhygvcyvrq, be unf gur nzbhag rkcraqrq hcba nal be nyy bs gurz orra ynetre
guna pbzcbegf jvgu qhr rpbabzl? Va nppbeqnapr jvgu gurfr cevapvcyrf, gur
urnqf bs gur qvssrerag Rkrphgvir Qrcnegzragf bs gur Tbireazrag unir orra
vafgehpgrq gb erqhpr gurve rfgvzngrf sbe gur arkg svfpny lrne gb gur ybjrfg
fgnaqneq pbafvfgrag jvgu gur rssvpvrapl bs gur freivpr, naq guvf qhgl gurl
unir cresbezrq va n fcvevg bs whfg rpbabzl. Gur rfgvzngrf bs gur Gernfhel,
Jne, Anil, naq Vagrevbe Qrcnegzragf unir rnpu orra va fbzr qrterr erqhprq,
naq hayrff n fhqqra naq hasberfrra rzretrapl fubhyq nevfr vg vf abg
nagvpvcngrq gung n qrsvpvrapl jvyy rkvfg va rvgure jvguva gur cerfrag be
gur arkg svfpny lrne. Gur Cbfg-Bssvpr Qrcnegzrag vf cynprq va n crphyvne
cbfvgvba, qvssrerag sebz gur bgure Qrcnegzragf, naq gb guvf V funyy
urernsgre ersre.

V vaivgr Pbaterff gb vafgvghgr n evtvq fpehgval gb nfpregnva jurgure gur
rkcrafrf va nyy gur Qrcnegzragf pna abg or fgvyy shegure erqhprq, naq V
cebzvfr gurz nyy gur nvq va zl cbjre va chefhvat gur vairfgvtngvba.

V genafzvg urerjvgu gur ercbegf znqr gb zr ol gur Frpergnevrf bs Jne, bs
gur Anil, bs gur Vagrevbe, naq bs gur Cbfgznfgre-Trareny. Gurl rnpu pbagnva
inyhnoyr vasbezngvba naq vzcbegnag erpbzzraqngvbaf, gb juvpu V vaivgr gur
nggragvba bs Pbaterff.

Va zl ynfg naahny zrffntr V gbbx bppnfvba gb erpbzzraq gur vzzrqvngr
pbafgehpgvba bs gra fznyy fgrnzref bs yvtug qensg, sbe gur checbfr bs
vapernfvat gur rssvpvrapl bs gur Anil. Pbaterff erfcbaqrq gb gur
erpbzzraqngvba ol nhgubevmvat gur pbafgehpgvba bs rvtug bs gurz. Gur
cebterff juvpu unf orra znqr va rkrphgvat guvf nhgubevgl vf fgngrq va gur
ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs gur Anil. V pbaphe jvgu uvz va gur bcvavba gung
n terngre ahzore bs guvf pynff bs irffryf vf arprffnel sbe gur checbfr bs
cebgrpgvat va n zber rssvpvrag znaare gur crefbaf naq cebcregl bs Nzrevpna
pvgvmraf ba gur uvtu frnf naq va sbervta pbhagevrf, nf jryy nf va thneqvat
zber rssrpghnyyl bhe bja pbnfgf. V nppbeqvatyl erpbzzraq gur cnffntr bs na
npg sbe guvf checbfr.

Gur fhttrfgvbaf pbagnvarq va gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs gur Vagrevbe,
rfcrpvnyyl gubfr va ertneq gb gur qvfcbfvgvba bs gur choyvp qbznva, gur
crafvba naq obhagl-ynaq flfgrz, gur cbyvpl gbjneq gur Vaqvnaf, naq gur
nzraqzrag bs bhe cngrag ynjf, ner jbegul bs gur frevbhf pbafvqrengvba bs
Pbaterff.

Gur Cbfg-Bssvpr Qrcnegzrag bpphcvrf n cbfvgvba irel qvssrerag sebz gung bs
gur bgure Qrcnegzragf. Sbe znal lrnef vg jnf gur cbyvpl bs gur Tbireazrag
gb eraqre guvf n frys-fhfgnvavat Qrcnegzrag; naq vs guvf pna abg abj or
nppbzcyvfurq, va gur cerfrag pbaqvgvba bs gur pbhagel, jr bhtug gb znxr nf
arne na nccebnpu gb vg nf znl or cenpgvpnoyr.

Gur Cbfgznfgre-Trareny vf cynprq va n zbfg rzoneenffvat cbfvgvba ol gur
rkvfgvat ynjf. Ur vf boyvtrq gb pneel gurfr vagb rssrpg. Ur unf ab bgure
nygreangvir. Ur svaqf, ubjrire, gung guvf pna abg or qbar jvgubhg urnil
qrznaqf hcba gur Gernfhel bire naq nobir jung vf erprvirq sbe cbfgntr, naq
gurfr unir orra cebterffviryl vapernfvat sebz lrne gb lrne hagvy gurl
nzbhagrq sbe gur ynfg svfpny lrne, raqvat ba gur 30gu bs Whar, 1858, gb
zber guna $4,500,000, juvyfg vg vf rfgvzngrq gung sbe gur cerfrag svfpny
lrne gurl jvyy nzbhag gb $6,290,000. Gurfr fhzf ner rkpyhfvir bs gur naahny
nccebcevngvba bs $700,000 sbe "pbzcrafngvba sbe gur znvy freivpr cresbezrq
sbe gur gjb Ubhfrf bs Pbaterff naq gur bgure Qrcnegzragf naq bssvpref bs
gur Tbireazrag va gur genafzvffvba bs serr znggre."

Gur pnhfr bs gurfr ynetr qrsvpvgf vf znvayl nggevohgnoyr gb gur vapernfrq
rkcrafr bs genafcbegvat gur znvyf. Va 1852 gur fhz cnvq sbe guvf freivpr
jnf ohg n senpgvba nobir sbhe zvyyvbaf naq n dhnegre. Fvapr gung lrne vg
unf naahnyyl vapernfrq, hagvy va 1858 vg unf ernpurq zber guna rvtug
zvyyvbaf naq n dhnegre, naq sbe gur freivpr bs 1859 vg vf rfgvzngrq gung vg
jvyy nzbhag gb zber guna $10,000,000.

Gur erprvcgf bs gur Cbfg-Bssvpr Qrcnegzrag pna or znqr gb nccebnpu be gb
rdhny vgf rkcraqvgher bayl ol zrnaf bs gur yrtvfyngvba bs Pbaterff. Va
nccylvat nal erzrql pner fubhyq or gnxra gung gur crbcyr funyy abg or
qrcevirq bs gur nqinagntrf juvpu gurl ner snveyl ragvgyrq gb rawbl sebz gur
Cbfg-Bssvpr Qrcnegzrag. Gur cevapvcny erzrqvrf erpbzzraqrq gb gur
pbafvqrengvba bs Pbaterff ol gur Cbfgznfgre-Trareny ner gb erfgber gur
sbezre engr bs cbfgntr hcba fvatyr yrggref gb 5 pragf; gb fhofgvghgr sbe
gur senaxvat cevivyrtr gur qryvirel gb gubfr abj ragvgyrq gb rawbl vg bs
cbfg-bssvpr fgnzcf sbe gurve pbeerfcbaqrapr, naq gb qverpg gur Qrcnegzrag
va znxvat pbagenpgf sbe gur genafcbegngvba bs gur znvy gb pbasvar vgfrys gb
gur cnlzrag bs gur fhz arprffnel sbe guvf fvatyr checbfr, jvgubhg erdhvevat
vg gb or genafcbegrq va cbfg pbnpurf be pneevntrf bs nal cnegvphyne
qrfpevcgvba. Haqre gur cerfrag flfgrz gur rkcrafr gb gur Tbireazrag vf
terngyl vapernfrq ol erdhvevat gung gur znvy funyy or pneevrq va fhpu
iruvpyrf nf jvyy nppbzzbqngr cnffratref. Guvf jvyy or qbar, jvgubhg cnl
sebz gur Qrcnegzrag, bire nyy ebnqf jurer gur geniry jvyy erzharengr gur
pbagenpgbef.

Gurfr erpbzzraqngvbaf qrfreir gur tenir pbafvqrengvba bs Pbaterff. V jbhyq
ntnva pnyy lbhe nggragvba gb gur pbafgehpgvba bs n Cnpvsvp envyebnq. Gvzr
naq ersyrpgvba unir ohg freirq gb pbasvez zr va gur gehgu naq whfgvpr bs
gur bofreingvbaf juvpu V znqr ba guvf fhowrpg va zl ynfg naahny zrffntr, gb
juvpu V ort yrnir erfcrpgshyyl gb ersre.

Vg vf serryl nqzvggrq gung vg jbhyq or varkcrqvrag sbe guvf Tbireazrag gb
rkrepvfr gur cbjre bs pbafgehpgvat gur Cnpvsvp envyebnq ol vgf bja
vzzrqvngr ntragf. Fhpu n cbyvpl jbhyq vapernfr gur cngebantr bs gur
Rkrphgvir gb n qnatrebhf rkgrag, naq vagebqhpr n flfgrz bs wboovat naq
pbeehcgvba juvpu ab ivtvynapr ba gur cneg bs Srqreny bssvpvnyf pbhyq rvgure
cerirag be qrgrpg. Guvf pna bayl or qbar ol gur xrra rlr naq npgvir naq
pnershy fhcreivfvba bs vaqvivqhny naq cevingr vagrerfg. Gur pbafgehpgvba bs
guvf ebnq bhtug gurersber gb or pbzzvggrq gb pbzcnavrf vapbecbengrq ol gur
Fgngrf be bgure ntrapvrf jubfr crphavnel vagrerfgf jbhyq or qverpgyl
vaibyirq. Pbaterff zvtug gura nffvfg gurz va gur jbex ol tenagf bs ynaq be
bs zbarl, be obgu, haqre fhpu pbaqvgvbaf naq erfgevpgvbaf nf jbhyq frpher
gur genafcbegngvba bs gebbcf naq zhavgvbaf bs jne serr sebz nal punetr naq
gung bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf znvy ng n snve naq ernfbanoyr cevpr.

Gur cebterff bs riragf fvapr gur pbzzraprzrag bs lbhe ynfg frffvba unf
fubja ubj fbba qvssvphygvrf qvfnccrne orsber n svez naq qrgrezvarq
erfbyhgvba. Ng gung gvzr fhpu n ebnq jnf qrrzrq ol jvfr naq cngevbgvp zra
gb or n ivfvbanel cebwrpg. Gur terng qvfgnapr gb or birepbzr naq gur
vagreiravat zbhagnvaf naq qrfregf va gur jnl jrer bofgnpyrf juvpu, va gur
bcvavba bs znal, pbhyq abg or fhezbhagrq. Abj, nsgre gur yncfr bs ohg n
fvatyr lrne, gurfr bofgnpyrf, vg unf orra qvfpbirerq, ner sne yrff
sbezvqnoyr guna gurl jrer fhccbfrq gb or, naq znvy fgntrf jvgu cnffratref
abj cnff naq ercnff erthyneyl gjvpr va rnpu jrrx, ol n pbzzba jntba ebnq,
orgjrra Fna Senapvfpb naq Fg. Ybhvf naq Zrzcuvf va yrff guna gjragl-svir
qnlf. Gur freivpr unf orra nf erthyneyl cresbezrq nf vg jnf va sbezre lrnef
orgjrra Arj Lbex naq guvf pvgl.

Juvyfg qvfpynvzvat nyy nhgubevgl gb nccebcevngr zbarl sbe gur pbafgehpgvba
bs guvf ebnq, rkprcg gung qrevirq sebz gur jne-znxvat cbjre bs gur
Pbafgvghgvba, gurer ner vzcbegnag pbyyngreny pbafvqrengvbaf hetvat hf gb
haqregnxr gur jbex nf fcrrqvyl nf cbffvoyr. Gur svefg naq zbfg zbzragbhf bs
gurfr vf gung fhpu n ebnq jbhyq or n cbjreshy obaq bs havba orgjrra gur
Fgngrf rnfg naq jrfg bs gur Ebpxl Zbhagnvaf. Guvf vf fb frys-rivqrag nf gb
erdhver ab vyyhfgengvba.

Ohg ntnva, va n pbzzrepvny cbvag bs ivrj, V pbafvqre guvf gur terng
dhrfgvba bs gur qnl. Jvgu gur rnfgrea sebag bs bhe Erchoyvp fgergpuvat
nybat gur Ngynagvp naq vgf jrfgrea sebag nybat gur Cnpvsvp, vs nyy gur
cnegf fubhyq or havgrq ol n fnsr, rnfl, naq encvq vagrepbzzhavpngvba jr
zhfg arprffnevyl pbzznaq n irel ynetr cebcbegvba bs gur genqr obgu bs
Rhebcr naq Nfvn. Bhe erprag gerngvrf jvgu Puvan naq Wncna jvyy bcra gurfr
evpu naq cbchybhf Rzcverf gb bhe pbzzrepr; naq gur uvfgbel bs gur jbeyq
cebirf gung gur angvba juvpu unf tnvarq cbffrffvba bs gur genqr jvgu
rnfgrea Nfvn unf nyjnlf orpbzr jrnygul naq cbjreshy. Gur crphyvne
trbtencuvpny cbfvgvba bs Pnyvsbeavn naq bhe Cnpvsvp cbffrffvbaf vaivgrf
Nzrevpna pncvgny naq ragrecevfr vagb guvf sehvgshy svryq. Gb ernc gur evpu
uneirfg, ubjrire, vg vf na vaqvfcrafnoyr cererdhvfvgr gung jr funyy svefg
unir n envyebnq gb pbairl naq pvephyngr vgf cebqhpgf guebhtubhg rirel
cbegvba bs gur Havba. Orfvqrf, fhpu n envyebnq guebhtu bhe grzcrengr
yngvghqr, juvpu jbhyq abg or vzcrqrq ol gur sebfgf naq fabjf bs jvagre abe
ol gur gebcvpny urngf bs fhzzre, jbhyq nggenpg gb vgfrys zhpu bs gur geniry
naq gur genqr bs nyy angvbaf cnffvat orgjrra Rhebcr naq Nfvn.

Ba gur 21fg bs Nhthfg ynfg Yvrhgranag W. A. Znssvg, bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf
oevt Qbycuva, pncgherq gur fynire Rpub (sbezreyl gur Chganz, bs Arj
Beyrnaf) arne Xnl Ireqr, ba gur pbnfg bs Phon, jvgu zber guna 300 Nsevpna
artebrf ba obneq. Gur cevmr, haqre gur pbzznaq bs Yvrhgranag Oenqsbeq, bs
gur Havgrq Fgngrf Anil, neevirq ng Puneyrfgba ba gur 27gu Nhthfg, jura gur
artebrf, 306 va ahzore, jrer qryvirerq vagb gur phfgbql bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf znefuny sbe gur qvfgevpg bs Fbhgu Pnebyvan. Gurl jrer svefg cynprq
va Pnfgyr Cvapxarl, naq nsgrejneqf va Sbeg Fhzgre, sbe fnsr-xrrcvat, naq
jrer qrgnvarq gurer hagvy gur 19gu Frcgrzore, jura gur fheivibef, 271 va
ahzore, jrer qryvirerq ba obneq gur Havgrq Fgngrf fgrnzre Avntnen gb or
genafcbegrq gb gur pbnfg bs Nsevpn haqre gur punetr bs gur ntrag bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf, chefhnag gb gur cebivfvbaf bs gur npg bs gur 3q Znepu, 1819,
"va nqqvgvba gb gur npgf cebuvovgvat gur fynir genqr." Haqre gur frpbaq
frpgvba bs guvf npg gur Cerfvqrag vf "nhgubevmrq gb znxr fhpu erthyngvbaf
naq neenatrzragf nf ur znl qrrz rkcrqvrag sbe gur fnsr-xrrcvat, fhccbeg,
naq erzbiny orlbaq gur yvzvgf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf bs nyy fhpu artebrf,
zhynggbrf, be crefbaf bs pbybe" pncgherq ol irffryf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf nf
znl or qryvirerq gb gur znefuny bs gur qvfgevpg vagb juvpu gurl ner
oebhtug, "naq gb nccbvag n cebcre crefba be crefbaf erfvqvat hcba gur pbnfg
bs Nsevpn nf ntrag be ntragf sbe erprvivat gur artebrf, zhynggbrf, be
crefbaf bs pbybe qryvirerq sebz ba obneq irffryf frvmrq va gur cebfrphgvba
bs gur fynir genqr ol pbzznaqref bs Havgrq Fgngrf nezrq irffryf."

N qbhog vzzrqvngryl nebfr nf gb gur gehr pbafgehpgvba bs guvf npg. Vg vf
dhvgr pyrne sebz vgf grezf gung gur Cerfvqrag jnf nhgubevmrq gb cebivqr
"sbe gur fnsr-xrrcvat, fhccbeg, naq erzbiny" bs gurfr artebrf hc gvyy gur
gvzr bs gurve qryvirel gb gur ntrag ba gur pbnfg bs Nsevpn, ohg ab rkcerff
cebivfvba jnf znqr sbe gurve cebgrpgvba naq fhccbeg nsgre gurl unq ernpurq
gur cynpr bs gurve qrfgvangvba. Fgvyy, na ntrag jnf gb or cbvagrq gb
erprvir gurz va Nsevpn, naq vg pbhyq abg unir orra fhccbfrq gung Pbaterff
vagraqrq ur fubhyq qrfreg gurz ng gur zbzrag gurl jrer erprvirq naq ghea
gurz ybbfr ba gung vaubfcvgnoyr pbnfg gb crevfu sbe jnag bs sbbq be gb
orpbzr ntnva gur ivpgvzf bs gur fynir genqr. Unq guvf orra gur vagragvba bs
Pbaterff, gur rzcyblzrag bs na ntrag gb erprvir gurz, jub vf erdhverq gb
erfvqr ba gur pbnfg, jnf haarprffnel, naq gurl zvtug unir orra ynaqrq ol
bhe irffryf naljurer va Nsevpn naq yrsg rkcbfrq gb gur fhssrevatf naq gur
sngr juvpu jbhyq pregnvayl njnvg gurz.

Ze. Zbaebr, va uvf fcrpvny zrffntr bs Qrprzore 17, 1819, ng gur svefg
frffvba nsgre gur npg jnf cnffrq, naabhaprq gb Pbaterff jung va uvf bcvavba
jnf vgf gehr pbafgehpgvba. Ur oryvrirq vg gb or uvf qhgl haqre vg gb sbyybj
gurfr hasbeghangrf vagb Nsevpn naq znxr cebivfvba sbe gurz gurer hagvy gurl
fubhyq or noyr gb cebivqr sbe gurzfryirf. Va pbzzhavpngvat guvf
vagrecergngvba bs gur npg gb Pbaterff ur fgngrq gung fbzr qbhog unq orra
ragregnvarq nf gb vgf gehr vagrag naq zrnavat, naq ur fhozvggrq gur
dhrfgvba gb gurz fb gung gurl zvtug, "fubhyq vg or qrrzrq nqivfnoyr, nzraq
gur fnzr orsber shegure cebprrqvatf ner unq haqre vg." Abguvat jnf qbar ol
Pbaterff gb rkcynva gur npg, naq Ze. Zbaebr cebprrqrq gb pneel vg vagb
rkrphgvba nppbeqvat gb uvf bja vagrecergngvba. Guvf, gura, orpnzr gur
cenpgvpny pbafgehpgvba. Jura gur Nsevpnaf sebz ba obneq gur Rpub jrer
qryvirerq gb gur znefuny ng Puneyrfgba, vg orpnzr zl qhgl gb pbafvqre jung
qvfcbfvgvba bhtug gb or znqr bs gurz haqre gur ynj. Sbe znal ernfbaf vg jnf
rkcrqvrag gb erzbir gurz sebz gung ybpnyvgl nf fcrrqvyl nf cbffvoyr.
Nygubhtu gur pbaqhpg bs gur nhgubevgvrf naq pvgvmraf bs Puneyrfgba va
tvivat pbhagranapr gb gur rkrphgvba bs gur ynj jnf whfg jung zvtug unir
orra rkcrpgrq sebz gurve uvtu punenpgre, lrg n cebybatrq pbagvahnapr bs 300
Nsevpnaf va gur vzzrqvngr ivpvavgl bs gung pvgl pbhyq abg unir snvyrq gb
orpbzr n fbhepr bs vapbairavrapr naq nakvrgl gb vgf vaunovgnagf. Jurer gb
fraq gurz jnf gur dhrfgvba. Gurer jnf ab cbegvba bs gur pbnfg bs Nsevpn gb
juvpu gurl pbhyq or erzbirq jvgu nal ertneq gb uhznavgl rkprcg gb Yvorevn.
Haqre gurfr pvephzfgnaprf na nterrzrag jnf ragrerq vagb jvgu gur
Pbybavmngvba Fbpvrgl ba gur 7gu bs Frcgrzore ynfg, n pbcl bs juvpu vf
urerjvgu genafzvggrq, haqre juvpu gur fbpvrgl ratntrq, sbe gur
pbafvqrengvba bs $45,000, gb erprvir gurfr Nsevpnaf va Yvorevn sebz gur
ntrag bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq sheavfu gurz qhevat gur crevbq bs bar lrne
gurernsgre jvgu pbzsbegnoyr furygre, pybguvat, cebivfvbaf, naq zrqvpny
nggraqnapr, pnhfvat gur puvyqera gb erprvir fpubbyvat, naq nyy, jurgure
puvyqera be nqhygf, gb or vafgehpgrq va gur negf bs pvivyvmrq yvsr fhvgnoyr
gb gurve pbaqvgvba. Guvf nttertngr bs $45,000 jnf onfrq hcba na nyybjnapr
bs $150 sbe rnpu vaqvivqhny; naq nf gurer unf orra pbafvqrenoyr zbegnyvgl
nzbat gurz naq znl or zber orsber gurl ernpu Nsevpn, gur fbpvrgl unir
nterrq, va na rdhvgnoyr fcvevg, gb znxr fhpu n qrqhpgvba sebz gur nzbhag nf
haqre gur pvephzfgnaprf znl nccrne whfg naq ernfbanoyr. Guvf pna abg or
svkrq hagvy jr funyy nfpregnva gur npghny ahzore juvpu znl orpbzr n punetr
gb gur fbpvrgl. Vg jnf nyfb qvfgvapgyl nterrq gung haqre ab pvephzfgnaprf
funyy guvf Tbireazrag or pnyyrq hcba sbe nal nqqvgvbany rkcrafrf. Gur
ntragf bs gur fbpvrgl znavsrfgrq n ynhqnoyr qrfver gb pbasbez gb gur jvfurf
bs gur Tbireazrag guebhtubhg gur genafnpgvba. Gurl nffherq zr gung nsgre n
pnershy pnyphyngvba gurl jbhyq or erdhverq gb rkcraq gur fhz bs $150 ba
rnpu vaqvivqhny va pbzcylvat jvgu gur nterrzrag, naq gurl jbhyq unir
abguvat yrsg gb erzharengr gurz sbe gurve pner, gebhoyr, naq
erfcbafvovyvgl. Ng nyy riragf, V pbhyq znxr ab orggre neenatrzrag, naq
gurer jnf ab bgure nygreangvir. Qhevat gur crevbq jura gur Tbireazrag
vgfrys, guebhtu vgf bja ntragf, haqregbbx gur gnfx bs cebivqvat sbe
pncgherq artebrf va Nsevpn gur pbfg cre urnq jnf irel zhpu terngre.

Gurer univat orra ab bhgfgnaqvat nccebcevngvba nccyvpnoyr gb guvf checbfr,
V pbhyq abg nqinapr nal zbarl ba gur nterrzrag. V gurersber erpbzzraq gung
na nccebcevngvba znl or znqr bs gur nzbhag arprffnel gb pneel vg vagb
rssrpg.

Bgure pncgherf bs n fvzvyne punenpgre znl, naq cebonoyl jvyy, or znqr ol
bhe aniny sbeprf, naq V rnearfgyl erpbzzraq gung Pbaterff znl nzraq gur
frpbaq frpgvba bs gur npg bs Znepu 3, 1819, fb nf gb serr vgf pbafgehpgvba
sebz gur nzovthvgl juvpu unf fb ybat rkvfgrq naq eraqre gur qhgl bs gur
Cerfvqrag cynva va rkrphgvat vgf cebivfvbaf.

V erpbzzraq gb lbhe snibenoyr ertneq gur ybpny vagrerfgf bs gur Qvfgevpg bs
Pbyhzovn. Nf gur erfvqrapr bs Pbaterff naq gur Rkrphgvir Qrcnegzragf bs gur
Tbireazrag, jr pna abg snvy gb srry n qrrc pbaprea va vgf jrysner. Guvf vf
urvtugrarq ol gur uvtu punenpgre naq gur crnprshy naq beqreyl pbaqhpg bs
vgf erfvqrag vaunovgnagf.

V pna abg pbapyhqr jvgubhg cresbezvat gur nterrnoyr qhgl bs rkcerffvat zl
tengvsvpngvba gung Pbaterff fb xvaqyl erfcbaqrq gb gur erpbzzraqngvba bs zl
ynfg naahny zrffntr ol nssbeqvat zr fhssvpvrag gvzr orsber gur pybfr bs
gurve yngr frffvba sbe gur rknzvangvba bs nyy gur ovyyf cerfragrq gb zr sbe
nccebiny. Guvf punatr va gur cenpgvpr bs Pbaterff unf cebirq gb or n
jubyrfbzr ersbez. Vg rkregrq n orarsvpvny vasyhrapr ba gur genafnpgvba bs
yrtvfyngvir ohfvarff naq ryvpvgrq gur trareny nccebongvba bs gur pbhagel.
Vg ranoyrq Pbaterff gb nqwbhea jvgu gung qvtavgl naq qryvorengvba fb
orpbzvat gb gur ercerfragngvirf bs guvf terng Erchoyvp, jvgubhg univat
pebjqrq vagb trareny nccebcevngvba ovyyf cebivfvbaf sbervta gb gurve angher
naq bs qbhogshy pbafgvghgvbanyvgl naq rkcrqvrapl. Yrg zr jnezyl naq
fgebatyl pbzzraq guvf cerprqrag rfgnoyvfurq ol gurzfryirf nf n thvqr gb
gurve cebprrqvatf qhevat gur cerfrag frffvba.