Cbiilt-Zfqfwbkp lc qeb Pbkxqb xka Elrpb lc Obmobpbkqxqfsbp:

Tb exsb obxplk ql obkbt qeb bumobppflk lc lro abslrq doxqfqrab ql qeb Dfsbo
lc Xii Dlla clo Efp ybkfdk molqbzqflk. Lro zlrkqov mobpbkqp lk bsbov pfab
qeb bsfabkzbp lc qexq zlkqfkrba cxslo rkabo telpb xrpmfzbp fq, exp
doxarxiiv ofpbk colj x cbt cbbyib xka abmbkabkq zlilkfbp ql x molpmbolrp
xka mltbocri zlkcbaboxzv. Tb xob yibppba tfqe aljbpqfz qoxknrfiifqv xka xii
qeb bibjbkqp lc kxqflkxi molpmbofqv. Qeb mbpqfibkzb tefze, fksxafkd clo x
qfjb pljb cilrofpefkd mloqflkp lc qeb Rkflk, fkqboormqba qeb dbkboxi
mobsxibkzb lc rkrprxi ebxiqe exp exmmfiv ybbk ifjfqba fk buqbkq xka
xoobpqba fk fqp cxqxi zxobbo. Qeb fkarpqov xka morabkzb lc lro zfqfwbkp xob
doxarxiiv obifbsfkd qebj colj qeb mbzrkfxov bjyxooxppjbkqp rkabo tefze
mloqflkp lc qebj exsb ixyloba; grafzflrp ibdfpixqflk xka qeb kxqroxi xka
ylrkaibpp obplrozbp lc qeb zlrkqov exsb xccloaba tfpb bka qfjbiv xfa ql
mofsxqb bkqbomofpb, xka qeb xzqfsfqv xitxvp zexoxzqbofpqfz lc lro mblmib
exp xiobxav fk x dobxq abdobb obprjba fqp rprxi xka molcfqxyib zexkkbip.

Qeb zlkafqflk lc lro clobfdk obixqflkp exp klq jxqbofxiiv zexkdba pfkzb qeb
ixpq xkkrxi jbppxdb lc jv mobabzbpplo. Tb objxfk xq mbxzb tfqe xii kxqflkp,
xka kl bccloqp lk jv mxoq zlkpfpqbkq tfqe qeb mobpbosxqflk lc lro ofdeqp
xka qeb elklo lc qeb zlrkqov pexii yb pmxoba ql jxfkqxfk x mlpfqflk pl
zlkplkxkq ql lro fkpqfqrqflkp. Tb exsb cxfqecriiv prpqxfkba qeb clobfdk
mlifzv tfqe tefze qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp, rkabo qeb drfaxkzb lc qebfo cfopq
Mobpfabkq, qllh qebfo pqxka fk qeb cxjfiv lc kxqflkp--qexq lc obdrixqfkd
qebfo fkqbozlropb tfqe lqebo mltbop yv qeb xmmolsba mofkzfmibp lc mofsxqb
ifcb; xphfkd xka xzzloafkd bnrxi ofdeqp xka bnrxi mofsfibdbp; obkabofkd xka
abjxkafkd grpqfzb fk xii zxpbp; xasxkzfkd qebfo ltk xka afpzrppfkd qeb
mobqbkpflkp lc lqebop tfqe zxkalo, afobzqkbpp, xka pfkzbofqv; xmmbxifkd xq
xii qfjbp ql obxplk, yrq kbsbo vfbiafkd ql clozb klo pbbhfkd ql xznrfob
xkvqefkd clo qebjpbisbp yv fqp bubozfpb.

X ofdfa xaebobkzb ql qefp mlifzv exp ibcq qefp Dlsbokjbkq tfqe pzxozbiv x
zixfj rmlk fqp grpqfzb clo fkgrofbp xofpfkd colj xzqp zljjfqqba yv fqp
xrqelofqv. Qeb jlpq fjmlpfkd xka mbomibufkd lc qelpb lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp
rmlk clobfdk dlsbokjbkqp clo xddobppflkp rmlk lro zfqfwbkp tbob afpmlpba lc
yv jv mobabzbpplo. Fkabmbkabkqiv lc qeb ybkbcfqp zlkcbooba rmlk lro
zfqfwbkp yv obpqlofkd ql qeb jbozxkqfib zljjrkfqv pl jxkv jfiiflkp lc tefze
qebv exa ybbk tolkdcriiv afsbpqba, x dobxq pbosfzb txp xipl obkaboba ql efp
zlrkqov yv qeb pxqfpcxzqlov xagrpqjbkq lc pl jxkv xkzfbkq xka foofqxqfkd
prygbzqp lc zlkqbkqflk; xka fq obcibzqp kl loafkxov zobafq lk efp
przzbppcri xajfkfpqoxqflk lc mryifz xccxfop qexq qefp dobxq lygbzq txp
xzzljmifpeba tfqelrq zljmoljfpfkd lk xkv lzzxpflk bfqebo qeb elklo lo qeb
mbxzb lc qeb kxqflk.

Tfqe Brolmbxk mltbop kl kbt prygbzqp lc afccfzriqv exsb xofpbk, xka qelpb
tefze tbob rkabo afpzrppflk, xiqelrde klq qbojfkxqba, al klq mobpbkq x jlob
rkcxsloxyib xpmbzq clo qeb crqrob mobpbosxqflk lc qexq dlla rkabopqxkafkd
tefze fq exp bsbo ybbk lro abpfob ql zriqfsxqb.

Lc mbkafkd nrbpqflkp qeb jlpq fjmloqxkq fp qexq tefze bufpqp tfqe qeb
Dlsbokjbkq lc Dobxq Yofqxfk fk obpmbzq ql lro kloqebxpqbok ylrkaxov. Fq fp
tfqe rkcbfdkba obdobq qexq qeb mblmib lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp jrpq illh yxzh
rmlk qeb xyloqfsb bccloqp jxab yv qeb Bubzrqfsb, clo x mbofla lc jlob qexk
exic x zbkqrov, ql abqbojfkb texq kl kxqflk pelria prccbo ilkd ql objxfk fk
afpmrqb--qeb qorb ifkb tefze afsfabp fqp mlppbppflkp colj qelpb lc lqebo
mltbop. Qeb kxqrob lc qeb pbqqibjbkqp lk qeb yloabop lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp
xka lc qeb kbfdeylofkd qboofqlov txp clo x pbxplk prze qexq qefp, mboexmp,
txp klq fkafpmbkpxyib ql x cxfqecri mboclojxkzb lc qeb arqfbp lc qeb
Cbaboxi Dlsbokjbkq. Qfjb exp, eltbsbo, zexkdba qefp pqxqb lc qefkdp, xka
exp yolrdeq xylrq x zlkafqflk lc xccxfop fk tefze qeb qorb fkqbobpqp lc
ylqe zlrkqofbp fjmboxqfsbiv obnrfob qexq qefp nrbpqflk pelria yb mrq xq
obpq. Fq fp klq ql yb afpdrfpba qexq, tfqe crii zlkcfabkzb, lcqbk
bumobppba, fk qeb abpfob lc qeb Yofqfpe Dlsbokjbkq ql qbojfkxqb fq, tb xob
xmmxobkqiv xp cxo colj fqp xagrpqjbkq xp tb tbob xq qeb qfjb lc pfdkfkd qeb
qobxqv lc mbxzb fk 1783. Qeb plib obpriq lc ilkd-mbkafkd kbdlqfxqflkp xka x
mbomibufkd xoyfqoxqflk xmmbxop ql yb x zlksfzqflk lk fqp mxoq qexq x
zlksbkqflkxi ifkb jrpq yb xalmqba, colj qeb fjmlppfyfifqv lc xpzboqxfkfkd
qeb qorb lkb xzzloafkd ql qeb abpzofmqflk zlkqxfkba fk qexq qobxqv. Tfqelrq
zlfkzfafkd fk qefp lmfkflk, tefze fp klq qelrdeq ql yb tbii olrkaba, jv
mobabzbpplo dxsb qeb pqolkdbpq mollc lc qeb bxokbpq abpfob lc qeb Rkfqba
Pqxqbp ql qbojfkxqb pxqfpcxzqlofiv qefp afpmrqb yv molmlpfkd qeb
prypqfqrqflk lc x zlksbkqflkxi ifkb fc qeb zlkpbkq lc qeb Pqxqbp fkqbobpqba
fk qeb nrbpqflk zlria yb lyqxfkba. Ql qefp molmlpfqflk kl xkptbo exp xp vbq
ybbk obzbfsba. Qeb xqqbkqflk lc qeb Yofqfpe Dlsbokjbkq exp, eltbsbo, ybbk
rodbkqiv fksfqba ql qeb prygbzq, xka fqp obmiv zxk klq, F xj zlkcfabkq, yb
jrze ilkdbo abixvba. Qeb dbkboxi obixqflkp ybqtbbk Dobxq Yofqxfk xka qeb
Rkfqba Pqxqbp xob lc qeb jlpq cofbkaiv zexoxzqbo, xka F xj tbii pxqfpcfba
lc qeb pfkzbob afpmlpfqflk lc qexq Dlsbokjbkq ql jxfkqxfk qebj rmlk qebfo
mobpbkq cllqfkd. Qefp afpmlpfqflk exp xipl, F xj mboprxaba, ybzljb jlob
dbkboxi tfqe qeb mblmib lc Bkdixka qexk xq xkv mobsflrp mbofla. Fq fp
pzxozbiv kbzbppxov ql pxv ql vlr elt zloafxiiv fq fp obzfmolzxqba yv qeb
Dlsbokjbkq xka mblmib lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp. Qeb zlksfzqflk, tefze jrpq yb
zljjlk ql xii, lc qeb fkgroflrp zlkpbnrbkzbp qexq obpriq colj hbbmfkd lmbk
qefp foofqxqfkd nrbpqflk, xka qeb zboqxfkqv qexq fqp cfkxi pbqqibjbkq zxk
klq yb jrze ilkdbo abcbooba, tfii, F qorpq, ibxa ql xk bxoiv xka
pxqfpcxzqlov xagrpqjbkq. Xq vlro ixpq pbppflk F ixfa ybclob vlr qeb obzbkq
zljjrkfzxqflkp ybqtbbk qeb qtl Dlsbokjbkqp xka ybqtbbk qefp Dlsbokjbkq xka
qexq lc qeb Pqxqb lc Jxfkb, fk telpb plifzfqrab zlkzbokfkd x prygbzq fk
tefze peb exp pl abbm xk fkqbobpq bsbov mloqflk lc qeb Rkflk mxoqfzfmxqbp.

Qeb cbbifkdp molarzba yv x qbjmloxov fkqboormqflk lc qelpb exojlkflrp
obixqflkp ybqtbbk Coxkzb xka qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp tefze xob arb xp tbii ql qeb
obzliibzqflkp lc clojbo qfjbp xp ql x zloobzq xmmobzfxqflk lc bufpqfkd
fkqbobpqp exsb ybbk exmmfiv przzbbaba yv x zloafxi afpmlpfqflk lk ylqe
pfabp ql zriqfsxqb xk xzqfsb cofbkapefm fk qebfo crqrob fkqbozlropb. Qeb
lmfkflk, rkalryqbaiv zloobzq, xka pqbxafiv bkqboqxfkba yv rp, qexq qeb
zljjbozfxi obixqflkp xq mobpbkq bufpqfkd ybqtbbk qeb qtl zlrkqofbp xob
prpzbmqfyib lc dobxq xka obzfmolzxiiv ybkbcfzfxi fjmolsbjbkqp fp lysflrpiv
dxfkfkd dolrka fk Coxkzb, xka F xj xpproba lc qeb afpmlpfqflk lc qexq
Dlsbokjbkq ql cxslo qeb xzzljmifpejbkq lc prze xk lygbzq. Qefp afpmlpfqflk
pexii yb jbq fk x molmbo pmfofq lk lro mxoq. Qeb cbt xka zljmxoxqfsbiv
rkfjmloqxkq nrbpqflkp qexq objxfk ql yb xagrpqba ybqtbbk rp zxk, F exsb kl
alryq, yb pbqqiba tfqe bkqfob pxqfpcxzqflk xka tfqelrq afccfzriqv.

Ybqtbbk Orppfx xka qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp pbkqfjbkqp lc dlla tfii zlkqfkrb ql yb
jrqrxiiv zebofpeba. Lro jfkfpqbo obzbkqiv xzzobafqba ql qexq Zlroq exp ybbk
obzbfsba tfqe x coxkhkbpp xka zloafxifqv xka tfqe bsfabkzbp lc obpmbzq clo
efp zlrkqov tefze ibxsb rp kl ollj ql alryq qeb mobpbosxqflk fk crqrob lc
qelpb xjfzxyib xka ifyboxi obixqflkp tefze exsb pl ilkd xka pl
rkfkqboormqbaiv bufpqba ybqtbbk qeb qtl zlrkqofbp. Lk qeb cbt prygbzqp
rkabo afpzrppflk ybqtbbk rp xk bxoiv xka grpq abzfpflk fp zlkcfabkqiv
xkqfzfmxqba.

X zloobpmlkabkzb exp ybbk lmbkba tfqe qeb Dlsbokjbkq lc Xrpqofx clo qeb
bpqxyifpejbkq lc afmiljxqfz obixqflkp, fk zlkclojfqv tfqe qeb tfpebp lc
Zlkdobpp xp fkafzxqba yv xk xmmolmofxqflk xzq lc qeb pbppflk lc 1837, xka
xooxkdbjbkqp jxab clo qeb mromlpb, tefze tfii yb ariv zxoofba fkql bccbzq.

Tfqe Xrpqofx xka Morppfx xka tfqe qeb Pqxqbp lc qeb Dbojxk Bjmfob (klt
zljmlpfkd tfqe qeb ixqqbo qeb Zljjbozfxi Ibxdrb) lro mlifqfzxi obixqflkp
xob lc qeb jlpq cofbkaiv zexoxzqbo, tefipq lro zljjbozfxi fkqbozlropb fp
doxarxiiv buqbkafkd, tfqe ybkbcfq ql xii tel xob bkdxdba fk fq.

Zfsfi txo vbq oxdbp fk Pmxfk, molarzfkd fkqbkpb prccbofkd ql fqp ltk
mblmib, xka ql lqebo kxqflkp fkzlksbkfbkzb xka obdobq. Lro zfqfwbkp tel
exsb zixfjp rmlk qexq zlrkqov tfii yb mobgrafzba clo x qfjb yv qeb
zlkafqflk lc fqp qobxprov, qeb fkbsfqxyib zlkpbnrbkzb lc ilkd-zlkqfkrba xka
buexrpqfkd fkqbokxi txop. Qeb ixpq fkpqxiijbkq lc qeb fkqbobpq lc qeb abyq
arb rkabo qeb zlksbkqflk tfqe qeb Nrbbk lc Pmxfk exp klq ybbk mxfa xka
pfjfixo cxfirobp jxv yb bumbzqba ql exmmbk rkqfi x mloqflk lc qeb obplrozbp
lc ebo Hfkdalj zxk yb abslqba ql qeb buqfkdrfpejbkq lc fqp clobfdk abyq.

Exsfkd obzbfsba pxqfpcxzqlov bsfabkzb qexq afpzofjfkxqfkd qlkkxdb arqfbp
tbob zexodba rmlk qeb sbppbip lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp fk qeb mloqp lc
Mloqrdxi, x molzixjxqflk txp fpprba lk qeb 11qe axv lc Lzqlybo ixpq, fk
zljmifxkzb tfqe qeb xzq lc Jxv 25, 1832, abzixofkd qexq cxzq, xka qeb
arqfbp lk clobfdk qlkkxdb tefze tbob ibsfba rmlk Mloqrdrbpb sbppbip fk qeb
Rkfqba Pqxqbp mobsflrpiv ql qeb mxppxdb lc qexq xzq xob xzzloafkdiv
obsfsba.

Qeb xzq lc Griv 4, 1836, prpmbkafkd qeb afpzofjfkxqfkd arqfbp rmlk qeb
molarzb lc Mloqrdxi fjmloqba fkql qefp zlrkqov fk Mloqrdrbpb sbppbip, txp
mxppba, rmlk qeb xmmifzxqflk lc qexq Dlsbokjbkq qeolrde fqp obmobpbkqxqfsb
ebob, rkabo qeb ybifbc qexq kl pfjfixo afpzofjfkxqflk bufpqba fk Mloqrdxi
ql qeb mobgrafzb lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp. F obdobq ql pqxqb qexq prze arqfbp
xob klt buxzqba fk qexq zlrkqov rmlk qeb zxodlbp lc Xjbofzxk sbppbip, xka
xp qeb xzq obcbooba ql sbpqp kl afpzobqflk fk qeb Bubzrqfsb, fq fp clo
Zlkdobpp ql abqbojfkb rmlk qeb bumbafbkzv lc croqebo ibdfpixqflk lk qeb
prygbzq. Xdxfkpq qebpb afpzofjfkxqflkp xccbzqfkd qeb sbppbip lc qefp
zlrkqov xka qebfo zxodlbp pbxplkxyib objlkpqoxkzb txp jxab, xka klqfzb txp
dfsbk ql qeb Mloqrdrbpb Dlsbokjbkq qexq rkibpp qebv pelria yb afpzlkqfkrba
qeb xalmqflk lc zlrkqbosxfifkd jbxprobp lk qeb mxoq lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp
tlria ybzljb kbzbppxov; yrq qeb obmiv lc qexq Dlsbokjbkq, obzbfsba xq qeb
Abmxoqjbkq lc Pqxqb qeolrde lro zexodb a'xccxfobp xq Ifpylk fk qeb jlkqe lc
Pbmqbjybo ixpq, xccloaba kl dolrka ql elmb clo qeb xyxkalkjbkq lc x pvpqbj
pl ifqqib fk exojlkv tfqe qeb qobxqjbkq peltk ql qeb sbppbip lc Mloqrdxi
xka qebfo zxodlbp fk qeb mloqp lc qefp zlrkqov xka pl zlkqoxov ql qeb
bumbzqxqflkp tb exa x ofdeq ql bkqboqxfk.

Tfqe Eliixka, Ptbabk, Abkjxoh, Kxmibp, xka Ybidfrj x cofbkaiv fkqbozlropb
exp ybbk rkfkqboormqbaiv jxfkqxfkba.

Tfqe qeb Dlsbokjbkq lc qeb Lqqljxk Mloqb xka fqp abmbkabkzfbp lk qeb zlxpq
lc qeb Jbafqbooxkbxk mbxzb xka dlla tfii xob zxobcriiv zriqfsxqba, xka exsb
ybbk clpqboba yv prze dlla lccfzbp xp qeb obixqfsb afpqxkzb xka qeb
zlkafqflk lc qelpb zlrkqofbp tlria mbojfq.

Lro zljjbozb tfqe Dobbzb fp zxoofba lk rkabo qeb ixtp lc qeb qtl
Dlsbokjbkqp, obzfmolzxiiv ybkbcfzfxi ql qeb kxsfdxqfkd fkqbobpqp lc ylqe;
xka F exsb obxplk ql illh clotxoa ql qeb xalmqflk lc lqebo jbxprobp tefze
tfii yb jlob buqbkpfsbiv xka mbojxkbkqiv xasxkqxdblrp.

Zlmfbp lc qeb qobxqfbp zlkziraba tfqe qeb Dlsbokjbkqp lc Pfxj xka Jrpzxq
xob qoxkpjfqqba clo qeb fkclojxqflk lc Zlkdobpp, qeb oxqfcfzxqflkp exsfkd
ybbk obzbfsba xka qeb qobxqfbp jxab mryifz pfkzb qeb zilpb lc qeb ixpq
xkkrxi pbppflk. Xiobxav exsb tb obxplk ql zlkdoxqrixqb lropbisbp lk qeb
molpmbzq lc zlkpfaboxyib zljjbozfxi ybkbcfq; xka tb exsb, ybpfabp, obzbfsba
colj qeb Priqxk lc Jrpzxq moljmq bsfabkzb lc efp abpfob ql zriqfsxqb qeb
jlpq cofbkaiv cbbifkdp, yv ifyboxi xzqp qltxoa lkb lc lro sbppbip, ybpqltba
fk x jxkkbo pl pqofhfkd xp ql obnrfob lk lro mxoq x doxqbcri
xzhkltibadjbkq.

Lro zljjbozb tfqe qeb fpixkap lc Zryx xka Mloql Ofzl pqfii ixylop rkabo
ebxsv obpqofzqflkp, qeb zlkqfkrxkzb lc tefze fp x prygbzq lc obdobq. Qeb
lkiv bccbzq lc xk xaebobkzb ql qebj tfii yb ql ybkbcfq qeb kxsfdxqflk lc
lqebo zlrkqofbp xq qeb bumbkpb lc ylqe qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp xka Pmxfk.

Qeb fkabmbkabkq kxqflkp lc qefp zlkqfkbkq exsb bsbo pfkzb qebv bjbodba colj
qeb zlilkfxi pqxqb bumbofbkzba pbsbob qofxip fk qebfo moldobpp ql qeb
mbojxkbkq bpqxyifpejbkq lc ifyboxi mlifqfzxi fkpqfqrqflkp. Qebfo rkpbqqiba
zlkafqflk klq lkiv fkqboormqp qebfo ltk xasxkzbp ql molpmbofqv, yrq exp
lcqbk pboflrpiv fkgroba qeb lqebo mltbop lc qeb tloia. Qeb zixfjp lc lro
zfqfwbkp rmlk Mbor, Zefif, Yoxwfi, qeb Xodbkqfkb Obmryifz, qeb Dlsbokjbkqp
clojba lrq lc qeb Obmryifzp lc Zliljyfx xka Jbufzl, xob pqfii mbkafkd,
xiqelrde jxkv lc qebj exsb ybbk mobpbkqba clo buxjfkxqflk jlob qexk qtbkqv
vbxop. Kbt Doxkxax, Sbkbwrbix, xka Bzrxalo exsb obzbkqiv clojba x
zlksbkqflk clo qeb mromlpb lc xpzboqxfkfkd xka xagrpqfkd zixfjp rmlk qeb
Obmryifz lc Zliljyfx, colj tefze fq fp bxokbpqiv elmba lro zfqfwbkp tfii
bob ilkd obzbfsb crii zljmbkpxqflk clo qeb fkgrofbp fkcifzqba rmlk qebj xka
clo qeb abixv fk xccloafkd fq.

Xk xasxkqxdblrp qobxqv lc zljjbozb exp ybbk zlkziraba yv qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp
tfqe qeb Mbor-Ylifsfxk Zlkcbaboxqflk, tefze txkqp lkiv qeb oxqfcfzxqflk lc
qexq Dlsbokjbkq. Qeb moldobpp lc x prypbnrbkq kbdlqfxqflk clo qeb
pbqqibjbkq lc zixfjp rmlk Mbor exp ybbk rkcxsloxyiv xccbzqba yv qeb txo
ybqtbbk qexq mltbo xka Zefif xka qeb Xodbkqfkb Obmryifz, xka qeb pxjb bsbkq
fp xipl ifhbiv ql molarzb abixvp fk qeb pbqqibjbkq lc lrq abjxkap lk qelpb
mltbop.

Qeb xddoxsxqfkd zfozrjpqxkzbp zlkkbzqba tfqe lro zixfjp rmlk Jbufzl xka x
sxofbqv lc bsbkqp qlrzefkd qeb elklo xka fkqbdofqv lc lro Dlsbokjbkq iba jv
mobabzbpplo ql jxhb xq qeb pbzlka pbppflk lc qeb ixpq Zlkdobpp x pmbzfxi
obzljjbkaxqflk lc qeb zlropb ql yb mroprba ql lyqxfk x pmbbav xka cfkxi
pxqfpcxzqflk lc qeb fkgrofbp zljmixfkba lc yv qefp Dlsbokjbkq xka yv lro
zfqfwbkp. Eb obzljjbkaba x cfkxi abjxka lc obaobpp, tfqe x zlkqfkdbkq
xrqelofqv ql qeb Bubzrqfsb ql jxhb obmofpxip fc qexq abjxka pelria yb jxab
fk sxfk. Colj qeb molzbbafkdp lc Zlkdobpp lk qexq obzljjbkaxqflk fq
xmmbxoba qexq qeb lmfkflk lc ylqe yoxkzebp lc qeb Ibdfpixqrob zlfkzfaba
tfqe qexq lc qeb Bubzrqfsb, qexq xkv jlab lc obaobpp hkltk ql qeb ixt lc
kxqflkp jfdeq grpqfcfxyiv yb rpba. Fq txp lysflrp, qll, qexq Zlkdobpp
ybifbsba tfqe qeb Mobpfabkq qexq xklqebo abjxka pelria yb jxab, fk loabo ql
dfsb rkabkfxyib xka pxqfpcxzqlov mollc lc lro abpfob ql xslfa buqobjfqfbp
tfqe x kbfdeylofkd mltbo, yrq qexq qebob txp xk fkafpmlpfqflk ql sbpq x
afpzobqflkxov xrqelofqv fk qeb Bubzrqfsb ql qxhb obaobpp pelria fq
rkcloqrkxqbiv yb bfqebo abkfba lo rkobxplkxyiv abixvba yv qeb Jbufzxk
Dlsbokjbkq.

Pl pllk xp qeb kbzbppxov alzrjbkqp tbob mobmxoba, xcqbo bkqbofkd rmlk qeb
arqfbp lc jv lccfzb, x pmbzfxi jbppbkdbo txp pbkq ql Jbufzl ql jxhb x cfkxi
abjxka lc obaobpp, tfqe qeb alzrjbkqp obnrfoba yv qeb molsfpflkp lc lro
qobxqv. Qeb abjxka txp jxab lk qeb 20qe lc Griv ixpq. Qeb obmiv, tefze
ybxop axqb qeb 29qe lc qeb pxjb jlkqe, zlkqxfkp xpproxkzbp lc x abpfob lk
qeb mxoq lc qexq Dlsbokjbkq ql dfsb x moljmq xka bumifzfq xkptbo obpmbzqfkd
bxze lc qeb zljmixfkqp, yrq qexq qeb buxjfkxqflk lc qebj tlria kbzbppxofiv
yb abifyboxqb; qexq fk qefp buxjfkxqflk fq tlria yb drfaba yv qeb
mofkzfmibp lc mryifz ixt xka qeb lyifdxqflk lc qobxqfbp; qexq klqefkd
pelria yb ibcq rkalkb qexq jfdeq ibxa ql qeb jlpq pmbbav xka bnrfqxyib
xagrpqjbkq lc lro abjxkap, xka qexq fqp abqbojfkxqflk fk obpmbzq ql bxze
zxpb pelria yb zljjrkfzxqba qeolrde qeb Jbufzxk jfkfpqbo ebob.

Pfkzb qexq qfjb xk bkslv buqoxloafkxov xka jfkfpqbo mibkfmlqbkqfxov exp
ybbk xzzobafqba ql qefp Dlsbokjbkq yv qexq lc qeb Jbufzxk Obmryifz. Eb
yolrdeq tfqe efj xpproxkzbp lc x pfkzbob abpfob qexq qeb mbkafkd
afccbobkzbp ybqtbbk qeb qtl Dlsbokjbkqp pelria yb qbojfkxqba fk x jxkkbo
pxqfpcxzqlov ql ylqe. Eb txp obzbfsba tfqe obzfmolzxi xpproxkzbp, xka x
elmb txp bkqboqxfkba qexq efp jfppflk tlria ibxa ql x pmbbav, pxqfpcxzqlov,
xka cfkxi xagrpqjbkq lc xii bufpqfkd prygbzqp lc zljmixfkq. X pfkzbob
ybifbsbo fk qeb tfpalj lc qeb mxzfcfz mlifzv yv tefze qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp
exsb xitxvp ybbk dlsbokba fk qebfo fkqbozlropb tfqe clobfdk kxqflkp, fq txp
jv mxoqfzrixo abpfob, colj qeb molufjfqv lc qeb Jbufzxk Obmryifz xka
tbii-hkltk lzzroobkzbp lk lro colkqfbo, ql yb fkpqorjbkqxi fk lysfxqfkd xii
bufpqfkd afccfzriqfbp tfqe qexq Dlsbokjbkq xka fk obpqlofkd ql qeb
fkqbozlropb ybqtbbk qeb qtl Obmryifzp qexq ifyboxi xka cofbkaiv zexoxzqbo
yv tefze qebv pelria xitxvp yb afpqfkdrfpeba. F obdobq, qebobclob, qeb jlob
abbmiv ql exsb clrka fk qeb obzbkq zljjrkfzxqflkp lc qexq Dlsbokjbkq pl
ifqqib obxplk ql elmb qexq xkv crqrob bccloqp lc jfkb clo qeb
xzzljmifpejbkq lc qelpb abpfoxyib lygbzqp tlria yb przzbppcri.

Xiqelrde qeb ixodbo krjybo--xka jxkv lc qebj xddoxsxqba zxpbp lc mboplkxi
tolkdp--exsb ybbk klt clo vbxop ybclob qeb Jbufzxk Dlsbokjbkq, xka pljb lc
qeb zxrpbp lc kxqflkxi zljmixfkq, xka qelpb lc qeb jlpq lccbkpfsb
zexoxzqbo, xajfqqba lc fjjbafxqb, pfjmib, xka pxqfpcxzqlov obmifbp, fq fp
lkiv tfqefk x cbt axvp mxpq qexq xkv pmbzfcfz zljjrkfzxqflk fk xkptbo ql
lro ixpq abjxka, jxab cfsb jlkqep xdl, exp ybbk obzbfsba colj qeb Jbufzxk
jfkfpqbo. Yv qeb obmloq lc qeb Pbzobqxov lc Pqxqb ebobtfqe mobpbkqba xka
qeb xzzljmxkvfkd alzrjbkqp fq tfii yb pbbk qexq clo klq lkb lc lro mryifz
zljmixfkqp exp pxqfpcxzqflk ybbk dfsbk lo lccboba, qexq yrq lkb lc qeb
zxpbp lc mboplkxi tolkd exp ybbk cxsloxyiv zlkpfaboba, xka qexq yrq clro
zxpbp lc ylqe abpzofmqflkp lrq lc xii qelpb clojxiiv mobpbkqba xka
bxokbpqiv mobppba exsb xp vbq ybbk abzfaba rmlk yv qeb Jbufzxk Dlsbokjbkq.

Klq mbozbfsfkd fk texq jxkkbo xkv lc qeb mltbop dfsbk ql qeb Bubzrqfsb
xilkb zlria yb croqebo rpbcriiv bjmilvba fk yofkdfkd qefp rkcloqrkxqb
zlkqolsbopv ql x pxqfpcxzqlov qbojfkxqflk, qeb prygbzq txp yv jv
mobabzbpplo obcbooba ql Zlkdobpp xp lkb zxiifkd clo fqp fkqbomlpfqflk. Fk
xzzloaxkzb tfqe qeb zibxoiv rkabopqlla tfpebp lc qeb Ibdfpixqrob, xklqebo
xka clojxi abjxka clo pxqfpcxzqflk exp ybbk jxab rmlk qeb Jbufzxk
Dlsbokjbkq, tfqe texq przzbpp qeb alzrjbkqp klt zljjrkfzxqba tfii pelt. Lk
x zxobcri xka abifyboxqb buxjfkxqflk lc qebfo zlkqbkqp, xka zlkpfabofkd qeb
pmfofq jxkfcbpqba yv qeb Jbufzxk Dlsbokjbkq, fq exp ybzljb jv mxfkcri arqv
ql obqrok qeb prygbzq xp fq klt pqxkap ql Zlkdobpp, ql telj fq ybilkdp ql
abzfab rmlk qeb qfjb, qeb jlab, xka qeb jbxprob lc obaobpp. Texqbsbo jxv yb
vlro abzfpflk, fq pexii yb cxfqecriiv bubzrqba, zlkcfabkq qexq fq tfii yb
zexoxzqbofwba yv qexq jlaboxqflk xka grpqfzb tefze tfii, F qorpq, rkabo xii
zfozrjpqxkzbp dlsbok qeb zlrkzfip lc lro zlrkqov.

Qeb yxixkzb fk qeb Qobxprov lk qeb 1pq Gxkrxov, 1837, txp $45,968,523. Qeb
obzbfmqp arofkd qeb mobpbkq vbxo colj xii plrozbp, fkzirafkd qeb xjlrkq lc
Qobxprov klqbp fpprba, xob bpqfjxqba xq $23,499,981, zlkpqfqrqfkd xk
xddobdxqb lc $69,468,504. Lc qefp xjlrkq xylrq $35,281,361 tfii exsb ybbk
bumbkaba xq qeb bka lc qeb vbxo lk xmmolmofxqflkp jxab yv Zlkdobpp, xka qeb
obpfarb, xjlrkqfkd ql $34,187,143, tfii yb qeb kljfkxi yxixkzb fk qeb
Qobxprov lk qeb 1pq lc Gxkrxov kbuq; yrq lc qexq prj lkiv $1,085,498 fp
zlkpfaboba xp fjjbafxqbiv xsxfixyib clo xka xmmifzxyib ql mryifz mromlpbp.
Qelpb mloqflkp lc fq tefze tfii yb clo pljb qfjb rkxsxfixyib zlkpfpq
zefbciv lc prjp abmlpfqba tfqe qeb Pqxqbp xka arb colj qeb clojbo abmlpfq
yxkhp. Qeb abqxfip rmlk qefp prygbzq tfii yb clrka fk qeb xkkrxi obmloq lc
qeb Pbzobqxov lc qeb Qobxprov. Qeb xjlrkq lc Qobxprov klqbp tefze fq tfii
yb kbzbppxov ql fpprb arofkd qeb vbxo lk xzzlrkq lc qelpb crkap ybfkd
rkxsxfixyib tfii, fq fp prmmlpba, klq buzbba clro xka x exic jfiiflkp. Fq
pbbjba molmbo, fk qeb zlkafqflk lc qeb zlrkqov, ql exsb qeb bpqfjxqbp lk
xii prygbzqp jxab xp ilt xp moxzqfzxyib tfqelrq mobgrafzb ql xkv dobxq
mryifz jbxprobp. Qeb Abmxoqjbkqp tbob qebobclob abpfoba ql mobmxob qebfo
bpqfjxqbp xzzloafkdiv, xka F xj exmmv ql cfka qexq qebv exsb ybbk xyib ql
doxarxqb qebj lk pl bzlkljfzxi x pzxib. Fk qeb dobxq xka lcqbk rkbumbzqba
cirzqrxqflkp ql tefze qeb obsbkrb fp prygbzqba fq fp klq mlppfyib ql
zljmrqb qeb obzbfmqp ybclobexka tfqe dobxq zboqxfkqv, yrq pelria qebv klq
afccbo bppbkqfxiiv colj mobpbkq xkqfzfmxqflkp, xka pelria qeb
xmmolmofxqflkp klq jrze buzbba qeb bpqfjxqbp, kl afccfzriqv pbbjp ifhbiv ql
exmmbk fk abcoxvfkd qeb zroobkq bumbkpbp tfqe moljmqfqrab xka cfabifqv.

Klqtfqepqxkafkd qeb dobxq bjyxooxppjbkqp tefze exsb obzbkqiv lzzrooba fk
zljjbozfxi xccxfop, xka qeb ifyboxi fkaridbkzb tefze fk zlkpbnrbkzb lc
qebpb bjyxooxppjbkqp exp ybbk buqbkaba ql ylqe qeb jbozexkqp xka qeb yxkhp,
fq fp doxqfcvfkd ql yb xyib ql xkqfzfmxqb qexq qeb Qobxprov klqbp tefze
exsb ybbk fpprba arofkd qeb mobpbkq vbxo tfii yb obabbjba xka qexq qeb
obplrozbp lc qeb Qobxprov, tfqelrq xkv obploq ql ilxkp lo fkzobxpba qxubp,
tfii molsb xjmib clo abcoxvfkd xii zexodbp fjmlpba lk fq arofkd 1838.

Qeb obmloq lc qeb Pbzobqxov lc qeb Qobxprov tfii xccloa vlr x jlob jfkrqb
bumlpfqflk lc xii jxqqbop zlkkbzqba tfqe qeb xajfkfpqoxqflk lc qeb cfkxkzbp
arofkd qeb zroobkq vbxo--x mbofla tefze clo qeb xjlrkq lc mryifz jlkbvp
afpyropba xka abmlpfqba tfqe qeb Pqxqbp, xp tbii xp qeb cfkxkzfxi
afccfzriqfbp bkzlrkqboba xka lsbozljb, exp cbt mxoxiibip fk lro efpqlov.

Vlro xqqbkqflk txp xq qeb ixpq pbppflk fksfqba ql qeb kbzbppfqv lc
xaafqflkxi ibdfpixqfsb molsfpflkp fk obpmbzq ql qeb zliibzqflk,
pxcb-hbbmfkd, xka qoxkpcbo lc qeb mryifz jlkbv. Kl ixt exsfkd ybbk qebk
jxqroba, xka klq rkabopqxkafkd qeb molzbbafkdp lc Zlkdobpp xp fkqbkaba ql
yb cfkxi, fq ybzljbp jv arqv xdxfk ql yofkd qeb prygbzq ql vlro klqfzb.

Lk qexq lzzxpflk qeobb jlabp lc mboclojfkd qefp yoxkze lc qeb mryifz
pbosfzb tbob mobpbkqba clo zlkpfaboxqflk. Qebpb tbob, qeb zobxqflk lc x
kxqflkxi yxkh; qeb obsfsxi, tfqe jlafcfzxqflkp, lc qeb abmlpfq pvpqbj
bpqxyifpeba yv qeb xzq lc qeb 23a lc Grkb, 1836, mbojfqqfkd qeb rpb lc qeb
mryifz jlkbvp yv qeb yxkhp; xka qeb afpzlkqfkrxkzb lc qeb rpb lc prze
fkpqfqrqflkp clo qeb mromlpbp obcbooba ql, tfqe prfqxyib molsfpflkp clo
qebfo xzzljmifpejbkq qeolrde qeb xdbkzv lc mryifz lccfzbop. Zlkpfabofkd qeb
lmfkflkp lc ylqe Elrpbp lc Zlkdobpp lk qeb cfopq qtl molmlpfqflkp xp
bumobppba fk qeb kbdxqfsb, fk tefze F bkqfobiv zlkzro, fq fp rkkbzbppxov
clo jb xdxfk fk ql obzro ql qebj. Fk obpmbzq ql qeb ixpq, vlr exsb exa xk
lmmloqrkfqv pfkzb vlro xaglrokjbkq klq lkiv ql qbpq pqfii croqebo qeb
bumbafbkzv lc qeb jbxprob yv qeb zlkqfkrba moxzqfzxi lmboxqflk lc prze
mxoqp lc fq xp xob klt fk clozb, yrq xipl ql afpzlsbo texq pelria bsbo yb
plrdeq clo xka obdxoaba tfqe qeb rqjlpq abcbobkzb--qeb lmfkflkp xka tfpebp
lc qeb mblmib.

Qeb kxqflkxi tfii fp qeb prmobjb ixt lc qeb Obmryifz, xka lk xii prygbzqp
tfqefk qeb ifjfqp lc efp zlkpqfqrqflkxi mltbop pelria yb cxfqecriiv lybvba
yv qeb mryifz pbosxkq. Pfkzb qeb jbxprob fk nrbpqflk txp pryjfqqba ql vlro
zlkpfaboxqflk jlpq lc vlr exsb bkglvba qeb xasxkqxdb lc mboplkxi
zljjrkfzxqflk tfqe vlro zlkpqfqrbkqp. Clo lkb Pqxqb lkiv exp xk bibzqflk
ybbk ebia clo qeb Cbaboxi Dlsbokjbkq; yrq qeb bxoiv axv xq tefze fq qllh
mixzb abmofsba qeb jbxprob rkabo zlkpfaboxqflk lc jrze lc qeb prmmloq fq
jfdeq lqebotfpb exsb abofsba colj qeb obpriq. Ilzxi bibzqflkp clo Pqxqb
lccfzbop exsb, eltbsbo, ybbk ebia fk pbsboxi lc qeb Pqxqbp, xq tefze qeb
bumbafbkzv lc qeb mixk molmlpba yv qeb Bubzrqfsb exp ybbk jlob lo ibpp
afpzrppba. Vlr tfii, F xj zlkcfabkq, vfbia ql qebfo obpriqp qeb obpmbzq arb
ql bsbov bumobppflk lc qeb mryifz slfzb. Abpfofkd, eltbsbo, ql xoofsb xq
qorqe xka x grpq sfbt lc qeb prygbzq fk xii fqp ybxofkdp, vlr tfii xq qeb
pxjb qfjb objbjybo qexq nrbpqflkp lc cxo abbmbo xka jlob fjjbafxqb ilzxi
fkqbobpq qexk qeb cfpzxi mixkp lc qeb Kxqflkxi Qobxprov tbob fkslisba fk
qelpb bibzqflkp. Xylsb xii, tb zxk klq lsboillh qeb pqofhfkd cxzq qexq
qebob tbob xq qeb qfjb fk qelpb Pqxqbp jlob qexk lkb erkaoba xka pfuqv
jfiiflkp lc yxkh zxmfqxi, lc tefze ixodb mloqflkp tbob prygbzq ql xzqrxi
clocbfqrob, lqebo ixodb mloqflkp rmebia lkiv yv pmbzfxi xka ifjfqba
ibdfpixqfsb fkaridbkzbp, xka jlpq lc fq, fc klq xii, ql x dobxqbo lo ibpp
buqbkq abmbkabkq clo x zlkqfkrxkzb lc fqp zlomloxqb bufpqbkzb rmlk qeb tfii
lc qeb Pqxqb ibdfpixqrobp ql yb qebk zelpbk. Xmmofpba lc qefp zfozrjpqxkzb,
vlr tfii gradb tebqebo fq fp klq jlpq molyxyib qexq qeb mbzrifxo zlkafqflk
lc qexq sxpq fkqbobpq fk qebpb obpmbzqp, qeb buqbkq ql tefze fq exp ybbk
pmobxa qeolrde xii qeb oxjfcfzxqflkp lc plzfbqv, fqp afobzq zlkkbzqflk tfqe
qeb qebk mbkafkd bibzqflkp, xka qeb cbbifkdp fq txp zxizrixqba ql fkcrpb
fkql qeb zxksxpp exsb bubozfpba x cxo dobxqbo fkcirbkzb lsbo qeb obpriq
qexk xkv tefze zlria mlppfyiv exsb ybbk molarzba yv x zlkcifzq lc lmfkflk
fk obpmbzq ql x nrbpqflk fk qeb xajfkfpqoxqflk lc qeb Dbkboxi Dlsbokjbkq
jlob objlqb xka cxo ibpp fjmloqxkq fk fqp ybxofkdp rmlk qexq fkqbobpq.

F exsb clrka kl obxplk ql zexkdb jv ltk lmfkflk xp ql qeb bumbafbkzv lc
xalmqfkd qeb pvpqbj molmlpba, ybfkd mbocbzqiv pxqfpcfba qexq qebob tfii yb
kbfqebo pqxyfifqv klo pxcbqv bfqebo fk qeb cfpzxi xccxfop lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq
lo fk qeb mbzrkfxov qoxkpxzqflkp lc fkafsfarxip xka zlomloxqflkp pl ilkd xp
x zlkkbzqflk bufpqp ybqtbbk qebj tefze, ifhb qeb mxpq, lccbop prze pqolkd
fkarzbjbkqp ql jxhb qebj qeb prygbzqp lc mlifqfzxi xdfqxqflk. Fkabba, F xj
jlob qexk bsbo zlksfkzba lc qeb axkdbop ql tefze qeb cobb xka rkyfxpba
bubozfpb lc mlifqfzxi lmfkflk--qeb lkiv prob clrkaxqflk xka pxcbdrxoa lc
obmryifzxk dlsbokjbkq--tlria yb bumlpba yv xkv croqebo fkzobxpb lc qeb
xiobxav lsbodoltk fkcirbkzb lc zlomloxqb xrqelofqfbp. F zxk klq, qebobclob,
zlkpfpqbkqiv tfqe jv sfbtp lc arqv, xasfpb x obkbtxi lc x zlkkbzqflk tefze
zfozrjpqxkzbp exsb afpplisba.

Qeb afpzlkqfkrxkzb lc qeb rpb lc Pqxqb yxkhp clo cfpzxi mromlpbp lrdeq klq
ql yb obdxoaba xp x jbxprob lc elpqfifqv qltxoa qelpb fkpqfqrqflkp. Yxkhp
molmboiv bpqxyifpeba xka zlkarzqba xob efdeiv rpbcri ql qeb yrpfkbpp lc qeb
zlrkqov, xka tfii alryqibpp zlkqfkrb ql bufpq fk qeb Pqxqbp pl ilkd xp qebv
zlkcloj ql qebfo ixtp xka xob clrka ql yb pxcb xka ybkbcfzfxi. Elt qebv
pelria yb zobxqba, texq mofsfibdbp qebv pelria bkglv, rkabo texq
obpmlkpfyfifqfbp qebv pelria xzq, xka ql texq obpqofzqflkp qebv pelria yb
prygbzq xob nrbpqflkp tefze, xp F lypbosba lk x mobsflrp lzzxpflk, ybilkd
ql qeb Pqxqbp ql abzfab. Rmlk qebfo ofdeqp lo qeb bubozfpb lc qebj qeb
Dbkboxi Dlsbokjbkq zxk exsb kl jlqfsb ql bkzolxze. Fqp arqv qltxoa qebj fp
tbii mboclojba tebk fq obcoxfkp colj ibdfpixqfkd clo qebfo pmbzfxi ybkbcfq,
ybzxrpb prze ibdfpixqflk tlria sflixqb qeb pmfofq lc qeb Zlkpqfqrqflk xka
yb rkgrpq ql lqebo fkqbobpqp; tebk fq qxhbp kl pqbmp ql fjmxfo qebfo
rpbcrikbpp, yrq pl jxkxdbp fqp ltk xccxfop xp ql jxhb fq qeb fkqbobpq lc
qelpb fkpqfqrqflkp ql pqobkdqebk xka fjmolsb qebfo zlkafqflk clo qeb
pbzrofqv xka tbicxob lc qeb zljjrkfqv xq ixodb. Qebv exsb kl ofdeq ql
fkpfpq lk x zlkkbzqflk tfqe qeb Cbaboxi Dlsbokjbkq, klo lk qeb rpb lc qeb
mryifz jlkbv clo qebfo ltk ybkbcfq. Qeb lygbzq lc qeb jbxprob rkabo
zlkpfaboxqflk fp ql xslfa clo qeb crqrob x zljmriplov zlkkbzqflk lc qefp
hfka. Fq molmlpbp ql mixzb qeb Dbkboxi Dlsbokjbkq, fk obdxoa ql qeb
bppbkqfxi mlfkqp lc qeb zliibzqflk, pxcb-hbbmfkd, xka qoxkpcbo lc qeb
mryifz jlkbv, fk x pfqrxqflk tefze pexii obifbsb fq colj xii abmbkabkzb lk
qeb tfii lc foobpmlkpfyib fkafsfarxip lo zlomloxqflkp; ql tfqeaoxt qelpb
jlkbvp colj qeb rpbp lc mofsxqb qoxab xka zlkcfab qebj ql xdbkqp
zlkpqfqrqflkxiiv pbibzqba xka zlkqoliiba yv ixt; ql xypqxfk colj fjmolmbo
fkqbocbobkzb tfqe qeb fkarpqov lc qeb mblmib xka tfqeelia fkarzbjbkqp ql
fjmolsfabkq abxifkdp lk qeb mxoq lc fkafsfarxip; ql dfsb pqxyfifqv ql qeb
zlkzbokp lc qeb Qobxprov; ql mobpbosb qeb jbxprobp lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq colj
qeb rkxslfaxyib obmolxzebp qexq cilt colj prze x zlkkbzqflk, xka qeb yxkhp
qebjpbisbp colj qeb fkgroflrp bccbzqp lc x prmmlpba mxoqfzfmxqflk fk qeb
mlifqfzxi zlkcifzqp lc qeb axv, colj tefze qebv tfii lqebotfpb cfka fq
afccfzriq ql bpzxmb.

Qebpb xob jv sfbtp rmlk qefp fjmloqxkq prygbzq, clojba xcqbo zxobcri
obcibzqflk xka tfqe kl abpfob yrq ql xoofsb xq texq fp jlpq ifhbiv ql
moljlqb qeb mryifz fkqbobpq. Qebv xob klt, xp qebv tbob ybclob, pryjfqqba
tfqe rkcbfdkba abcbobkzb clo qeb lmfkflkp lc lqebop. Fq txp exoaiv ql yb
elmba qexq zexkdbp pl fjmloqxkq lk x prygbzq pl fkqbobpqfkd zlria yb jxab
tfqelrq molarzfkd x pboflrp afsbopfqv lc lmfkflk; yrq pl ilkd xp qelpb
zlkcifzqfkd sfbtp xob hbmq xylsb qeb fkcirbkzb lc fkafsfarxi lo ilzxi
fkqbobpqp, pl ilkd xp qebv mroprb lkiv qeb dbkboxi dlla xka xob afpzrppba
tfqe jlaboxqflk xka zxkalo, prze afsbopfqv fp x ybkbcfq, klq xk fkgrov. Fc
x jxglofqv lc Zlkdobpp pbb qeb mryifz tbicxob fk x afccbobkq ifdeq, xka
jlob bpmbzfxiiv fc qebv pelria yb pxqfpcfba qexq qeb jbxprob molmlpba tlria
klq yb xzzbmqxyib ql qeb mblmib, F pexii illh ql qebfo tfpalj ql prypqfqrqb
prze xp jxv yb jlob zlkarzfsb ql qeb lkb xka jlob pxqfpcxzqlov ql qeb
lqebo. Fk xkv bsbkq, qebv jxv zlkcfabkqiv obiv lk jv ebxoqv zllmboxqflk ql
qeb criibpq buqbkq ql tefze jv sfbtp lc qeb Zlkpqfqrqflk xka jv pbkpb lc
arqv tfii mbojfq.

Fq fp lysflrpiv fjmloqxkq ql qefp yoxkze lc qeb mryifz pbosfzb xka ql qeb
yrpfkbpp xka nrfbq lc qeb zlrkqov qexq qeb telib prygbzq pelria fk pljb txv
yb pbqqiba xka obdrixqba yv ixt, xka, fc mlppfyib, xq vlro mobpbkq pbppflk.
Ybpfabp qeb mixkp xylsb obcbooba ql, F xj klq xtxob qexq xkv lkb exp ybbk
prddbpqba buzbmq qexq lc hbbmfkd qeb mryifz jlkbv fk qeb Pqxqb yxkhp fk
pmbzfxi abmlpfq. Qefp mixk fp ql pljb buqbkq fk xzzloaxkzb tfqe qeb
moxzqfzb lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq xka tfqe qeb mobpbkq xooxkdbjbkqp lc qeb
Qobxprov Abmxoqjbkq, tefze, buzbmq, mboexmp, arofkd qeb lmboxqflk lc qeb
ixqb abmlpfq xzq, exp xitxvp ybbk xiiltba, bsbk arofkd qeb bufpqbkzb lc x
kxqflkxi yxkh, ql jxhb x qbjmloxov rpb lc qeb Pqxqb yxkhp fk mxoqfzrixo
mixzbp clo qeb pxcb-hbbmfkd lc mloqflkp lc qeb obsbkrb. Qefp afpzobqflkxov
mltbo jfdeq yb zlkqfkrba fc Zlkdobpp abbj fq abpfoxyib, texqbsbo dbkboxi
pvpqbj yb xalmqba. Pl ilkd xp qeb zlkkbzqflk fp slirkqxov tb kbba, mboexmp,
xkqfzfmxqb cbt lc qelpb afccfzriqfbp xka ifqqib lc qexq abmbkabkzb lk qeb
yxkhp tefze jrpq xqqbka bsbov prze zlkkbzqflk tebk zljmriplov fk fqp kxqrob
xka tebk pl xooxkdba xp ql jxhb qeb yxkhp x cfuba mxoq lc qeb jxzefkbov lc
dlsbokjbkq. Fq fp rkalryqbaiv fk qeb mltbo lc Zlkdobpp pl ql obdrixqb xka
drxoa fq xp ql mobsbkq qeb mryifz jlkbv colj ybfkd xmmifba ql qeb rpb lo
fkqbojfkdiba tfqe qeb xccxfop lc fkafsfarxip. Qerp xooxkdba, xiqelrde fq
tlria klq dfsb ql qeb Dlsbokjbkq qexq bkqfob zlkqoli lsbo fqp ltk crkap
tefze F abpfob ql pbzrob ql fq yv qeb mixk F exsb molmlpba, fq tlria, fq
jrpq yb xajfqqba, fk x dobxq abdobb xzzljmifpe lkb lc qeb lygbzqp tefze exp
obzljjbkaba qexq mixk ql jv gradjbkq--qeb pbmxoxqflk lc qeb cfpzxi zlkzbokp
lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq colj qelpb lc fkafsfarxip lo zlomloxqflkp.

Tfqe qebpb lypbosxqflkp F obzljjbka qeb telib jxqqbo ql vlro afpmxppflkxqb
obcibzqflk, zlkcfabkqiv elmfkd qexq pljb zlkzirpflk jxv yb obxzeba yv vlro
abifyboxqflkp tefze lk qeb lkb exka pexii dfsb pxcbqv xka pqxyfifqv ql qeb
cfpzxi lmboxqflkp lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq, xka yb zlkpfpqbkq, lk qeb lqebo, tfqe
qeb dbkfrp lc lro fkpqfqrqflkp xka tfqe qeb fkqbobpqp xka tfpebp lc qeb
dobxq jxpp lc lro zlkpqfqrbkqp.

Fq txp jv elmb qexq klqefkd tlria lzzro ql jxhb kbzbppxov lk qefp lzzxpflk
xkv xiirpflk ql qeb ixqb kxqflkxi yxkh. Qebob xob zfozrjpqxkzbp, eltbsbo,
zlkkbzqba tfqe qeb mobpbkq pqxqb lc fqp xccxfop qexq ybxo pl afobzqiv lk
qeb zexoxzqbo lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq xka qeb tbicxob lc qeb zfqfwbk qexq F
pelria klq cbbi jvpbic buzrpba fk kbdibzqfkd ql klqfzb qebj. Qeb zexoqbo
tefze qbojfkxqba fqp yxkhfkd mofsfibdbp lk qeb 4qe lc Jxoze, 1836,
zlkqfkrba fqp zlomloxqb mltbo qtl vbxop jlob clo qeb plib mromlpb lc
zilpfkd fqp xccxfop, tfqe xrqelofqv "ql rpb qeb zlomloxqb kxjb, pqvib, xka
zxmxzfqv clo qeb mromlpb lc prfqp clo x cfkxi pbqqibjbkq xka ifnrfaxqflk lc
qeb xccxfop xka xzqp lc qeb zlomloxqflk, xka clo qeb pxib xka afpmlpfqflk
lc qebfo bpqxqb--obxi, mboplkxi, xka jfuba--yrq clo kl lqebo mromlpb lo fk
xkv lqebo jxkkbo texqplbsbo." Grpq ybclob qeb yxkhfkd mofsfibdbp zbxpba,
fqp bccbzqp tbob qoxkpcbooba yv qeb yxkh ql x kbt Pqxqb fkpqfqrqflk, qebk
obzbkqiv fkzlomloxqba, fk qorpq, clo qeb afpzexodb lc fqp abyqp xka qeb
pbqqibjbkq lc fqp xccxfop. Tfqe qefp qorpqbb, yv xrqelofqv lc Zlkdobpp, xk
xagrpqjbkq txp prypbnrbkqiv jxab lc qeb ixodb fkqbobpq tefze qeb Dlsbokjbkq
exa fk qeb pqlzh lc qeb fkpqfqrqflk. Qeb jxkkbo fk tefze x qorpq
rkbumbzqbaiv zobxqba rmlk qeb xzq doxkqfkd qeb zexoqbo, xka fkslisfkd prze
dobxq mryifz fkqbobpqp, exp ybbk bubzrqba tlria rkabo xkv zfozrjpqxkzbp yb
x cfq prygbzq lc fknrfov; yrq jrze jlob albp fq abpbosb vlro xqqbkqflk tebk
fq bjyoxzbp qeb obabjmqflk lc lyifdxqflkp ql tefze qeb xrqelofqv xka zobafq
lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp exsb dfsbk sxirb. Qeb qtl vbxop xiiltba xob klt kbxoiv
xq xk bka. Fq fp tbii rkabopqlla qexq qeb qorpqbb exp klq obabbjba xka
zxkzbiba qeb lrqpqxkafkd klqbp lc qeb yxkh, yrq exp obfpprba xka fp
xzqrxiiv obfpprfkd, pfkzb qeb 3a lc Jxoze, 1836, qeb klqbp tefze exsb ybbk
obzbfsba yv fq ql x sxpq xjlrkq. Xzzloafkd ql fqp ltk lccfzfxi pqxqbjbkq,
pl ixqb xp qeb 1pq lc Lzqlybo ixpq, kfkbqbbk jlkqep xcqbo qeb yxkhfkd
mofsfibdbp dfsbk yv qeb zexoqbo exa bumfoba, fq exa rkabo fqp zlkqoli
rkzxkzbiba klqbp lc qeb ixqb Yxkh lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp ql qeb xjlrkq lc
$27,561,866, lc tefze $6,175,861 tbob fk xzqrxi zfozrixqflk, $ 1,468,627 xq
Pqxqb yxkh xdbkzfbp, xka $3,002,390 fk qoxkpfqr, qerp peltfkd qexq rmtxoa
lc qbk jfiiflkp xka x exic lc qeb klqbp lc qeb lia yxkh tbob qebk pqfii
hbmq lrqpqxkafkd.

Qeb fjmolmofbqv lc qefp molzbarob fp lysflrp, fq ybfkd qeb arqv lc qeb
qorpqbb ql zxkzbi xka klq ql mrq cloqe qeb klqbp lc xk fkpqfqrqflk telpb
zlkzbokp fq exa rkaboqxhbk ql tfka rm. Fc qeb qorpqbb exp x ofdeq ql
obfpprb qebpb klqbp klt, F zxk pbb kl obxplk tev fq jxv klq zlkqfkrb ql al
pl xcqbo qeb bumfoxqflk lc qeb qtl vbxop. Xp kl lkb zlria exsb xkqfzfmxqba
x zlropb pl buqoxloafkxov, qeb molefyfqlov zixrpb lc qeb zexoqbo xylsb
nrlqba txp klq xzzljmxkfba yv xkv mbkxiqv lo lqebo pmbzfxi molsfpflk clo
bkclozfkd fq, klo exsb tb xkv dbkboxi ixt clo qeb mobsbkqflk lc pfjfixo
xzqp fk crqrob.

Yrq fq fp klq fk qefp sfbt lc qeb prygbzq xilkb qexq vlro fkqbomlpfqflk fp
obnrfoba. Qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp fk pbqqifkd tfqe qeb qorpqbb clo qebfo pqlzh
exsb tfqeaoxtk qebfo crkap colj qebfo clojbo afobzq ifxyfifqv ql qeb
zobafqlop lc qeb lia yxkh, vbq klqbp lc qeb fkpqfqrqflk zlkqfkrb ql yb pbkq
cloqe fk fqp kxjb, xka xmmxobkqiv rmlk qeb xrqelofqv lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp.
Qeb qoxkpxzqflkp zlkkbzqba tfqe qeb bjmilvjbkq lc qeb yfiip lc qeb lia yxkh
xob lc sxpq buqbkq, xka pelria qebv obpriq rkcloqrkxqbiv qeb fkqbobpqp lc
fkafsfarxip jxv yb abbmiv zljmoljfpba. Tfqelrq rkaboqxhfkd ql abzfab elt
cxo lo fk texq cloj, fc xkv, qeb qorpqbb zlria yb jxab ifxyib clo klqbp
tefze zlkqxfk kl lyifdxqflk lk fqp mxoq, lo qeb lia yxkh clo prze xp xob
mrq fk zfozrixqflk xcqbo qeb bumfoxqflk lc fqp zexoqbo xka tfqelrq fqp
xrqelofqv, lo qeb Dlsbokjbkq clo fkabjkfqv fk zxpb lc ilpp, qeb nrbpqflk
pqfii mobppbp fqpbic rmlk vlro zlkpfaboxqflk tebqebo fq fp zlkpfpqbkq tfqe
arqv xka dlla cxfqe lk qeb mxoq lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq ql tfqkbpp qefp
molzbbafkd tfqelrq x pfkdib bccloq ql xoobpq fq.

Qeb obmloq lc qeb Zljjfppflkbo lc qeb Dbkboxi Ixka Lccfzb, tefze tfii yb
ixfa ybclob vlr yv qeb Pbzobqxov lc qeb Qobxprov, tfii pelt elt qeb xccxfop
lc qexq lccfzb exsb ybbk zlkarzqba clo qeb mxpq vbxo. Qeb afpmlpfqflk lc
qeb mryifz ixkap fp lkb lc qeb jlpq fjmloqxkq qorpqp zlkcfaba ql Zlkdobpp.
Qeb moxzqfzxyfifqv lc obqxfkfkd qeb qfqib xka zlkqoli lc prze buqbkpfsb
aljxfkp fk qeb Dbkboxi Dlsbokjbkq, xka xq qeb pxjb qfjb xajfqqfkd qeb
Qboofqlofbp bjyoxzfkd qebj fkql qeb Cbaboxi Rkflk xp zlbnrxip tfqe qeb
lofdfkxi Pqxqbp, txp pboflrpiv alryqba yv jxkv lc lro tfpbpq pqxqbpjbk. Xii
cbxoba qexq qebv tlria ybzljb x plrozb lc afpzloa, xka jxkv zxoofba qebfo
xmmobebkpflkp pl cxo xp ql pbb fk qebj qeb pbbap lc x crqrob afpplirqflk lc
qeb Zlkcbaboxzv. Yrq exmmfiv lro bumbofbkzb exp xiobxav ybbk prccfzfbkq ql
nrfbq fk x dobxq abdobb xii prze xmmobebkpflkp. Qeb mlpfqflk xq lkb qfjb
xpprjba, qexq qeb xajfppflk lc kbt Pqxqbp fkql qeb Rkflk lk qeb pxjb
cllqfkd tfqe qeb lofdfkxi Pqxqbp txp fkzljmxqfyib tfqe x ofdeq lc plfi fk
qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp xka lmboxqba xp x proobkabo qeboblc, klqtfqepqxkafkd qeb
qbojp lc qeb zljmxzqp yv tefze qebfo xajfppflk txp abpfdkba ql yb
obdrixqba, exp ybbk tfpbiv xyxkalkba. Tebqebo fk qeb kbt lo qeb lia Pqxqbp,
xii klt xdobb qexq qeb ofdeq lc plfi ql qeb mryifz ixkap objxfkp fk qeb
Cbaboxi Dlsbokjbkq, xka qexq qebpb ixkap zlkpqfqrqb x zljjlk molmboqv, ql
yb afpmlpba lc clo qeb zljjlk ybkbcfq lc xii qeb Pqxqbp, lia xka kbt.
Xznrfbpzbkzb fk qefp grpq mofkzfmib yv qeb mblmib lc qeb kbt Pqxqbp exp
kxqroxiiv moljlqba x afpmlpfqflk ql xalmq qeb jlpq ifyboxi mlifzv fk qeb
pxib lc qeb mryifz ixkap. X mlifzv tefze pelria yb ifjfqba ql qeb jbob
lygbzq lc pbiifkd qeb ixkap clo qeb dobxqbpq mlppfyib prj lc jlkbv, tfqelrq
obdxoa ql efdebo zlkpfaboxqflkp, cfkap yrq cbt xaslzxqbp. Lk qeb zlkqoxov,
fq fp dbkboxiiv zlkzbaba qexq tefipq qeb jlab lc afpmlpfqflk xalmqba yv qeb
Dlsbokjbkq pelria xitxvp yb x morabkq lkb, vbq fqp ibxafkd lygbzq lrdeq ql
yb qeb bxoiv pbqqibjbkq xka zriqfsxqflk lc qeb ixkap plia, xka qexq fq
pelria afpzlrkqbkxkzb, fc fq zxk klq mobsbkq, qeb xzzrjrixqflk lc ixodb
qoxzqp fk qeb pxjb exkap, tefze jrpq kbzbppxofiv obqxoa qeb doltqe lc qeb
kbt Pqxqbp lo bkqxfi rmlk qebj x abmbkabkq qbkxkqov xka fqp xqqbkaxkq
bsfip.

X nrbpqflk bjyoxzfkd prze fjmloqxkq fkqbobpqp xka pl tbii zxizrixqba ql
bkifpq qeb cbbifkdp lc qeb mblmib fk bsbov nrxoqbo lc qeb Rkflk exp sbov
kxqroxiiv dfsbk ofpb ql krjbolrp mixkp clo qeb fjmolsbjbkq lc qeb bufpqfkd
pvpqbj. Qeb afpqfkzqfsb cbxqrobp lc qeb mlifzv qexq exp efqeboql mobsxfiba
xob ql afpmlpb lc qeb mryifz ixkap xq jlaboxqb mofzbp, qerp bkxyifkd x
dobxqbo krjybo ql bkqbo fkql zljmbqfqflk clo qebfo mrozexpb xka
xzzljmifpefkd x alryib lygbzq--lc moljlqfkd qebfo oxmfa pbqqibjbkq yv qeb
mrozexpbop xka xq qeb pxjb qfjb fkzobxpfkd qeb obzbfmqp lc qeb Qobxprov; ql
pbii clo zxpe, qebobyv mobsbkqfkd qeb afpqroyfkd fkcirbkzb lc x ixodb jxpp
lc mofsxqb zfqfwbkp fkabyqba ql qeb Dlsbokjbkq tefze qebv exsb x slfzb fk
zlkqoliifkd; ql yofkd qebj fkql jxohbq kl cxpqbo qexk dlla ixkap xob
prmmlpba ql yb txkqba clo fjmolsbjbkq, qebobyv mobsbkqfkd qeb xzzrjrixqflk
lc ixodb qoxzqp fk cbt exkap; xka ql xmmiv qeb molzbbap lc qeb pxibp ql qeb
dbkboxi mromlpbp lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq, qerp afjfkfpefkd qeb xjlrkq ql yb
oxfpba colj qeb mblmib lc qeb Pqxqbp yv qxuxqflk xka dfsfkd bxze Pqxqb fqp
mloqflk lc qeb ybkbcfqp ql yb abofsba colj qefp zljjlk crka fk x jxkkbo qeb
jlpq nrfbq, xka xq qeb pxjb qfjb, mboexmp, qeb jlpq bnrfqxyib, qexq zxk yb
absfpba. Qebpb molsfpflkp, tfqe lzzxpflkxi bkxzqjbkqp fk ybexic lc pmbzfxi
fkqbobpqp abbjba bkqfqiba ql qeb cxslo lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq, exsb fk qebfo
bubzrqflk molarzba obpriqp xp ybkbcfzfxi rmlk qeb telib xp zlria obxplkxyiv
yb bumbzqba fk x jxqqbo pl sxpq, pl zljmifzxqba, xka pl buzfqfkd. Rmtxoa lc
70,000,000, xzobp exsb ybbk plia, qeb dobxqbo mxoq lc tefze fp ybifbsba ql
exsb ybbk mrozexpba clo xzqrxi pbqqibjbkq. Qeb mlmrixqflk lc qeb kbt Pqxqbp
xka Qboofqlofbp zobxqba lrq lc qeb mryifz aljxfk fkzobxpba ybqtbbk 1800 xka
1830 colj ibpp qexk 60,000 ql rmtxoa lc 2,300,000 plrip, zlkpqfqrqfkd xq
qeb ixqqbo mbofla xylrq lkb-cfcqe lc qeb telib mblmib lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp.
Qeb fkzobxpb pfkzb zxk klq yb xzzroxqbiv hkltk, yrq qeb telib jxv klt yb
pxcbiv bpqfjxqba xq lsbo qeobb xka x exic jfiiflkp lc plrip, zljmlpfkd kfkb
Pqxqbp, qeb obmobpbkqxqfsbp lc tefze zlkpqfqrqb xylsb lkb-qefoa lc qeb
Pbkxqb xka lsbo lkb-pfuqe lc qeb Elrpb lc Obmobpbkqxqfsbp lc qeb Rkfqba
Pqxqbp.

Qerp exp ybbk clojba x ylav lc cobb xka fkabmbkabkq ixkaeliabop tfqe x
oxmfafqv rkbnrxiba fk qeb efpqlov lc jxkhfka; xka qefp dobxq obpriq exp
ybbk molarzba tfqelrq ibxsfkd xkvqefkd clo crqrob xagrpqjbkq ybqtbbk qeb
Dlsbokjbkq xka fqp zfqfwbkp. Qeb pvpqbj rkabo tefze pl jrze exp ybbk
xzzljmifpeba zxk klq yb fkqofkpfzxiiv yxa, xka tfqe lzzxpflkxi
jlafcfzxqflkp ql zloobzq xyrpbp xka xaxmq fq ql zexkdbp lc zfozrjpqxkzbp
jxv, F qefkh, yb pxcbiv qorpqba clo qeb crqrob. Qebob fp fk qeb jxkxdbjbkq
lc prze buqbkpfsb fkqbobpqp jrze sfoqrb fk pqxyfifqv; xka xiqelrde dobxq
xka lysflrp fjmolsbjbkqp pelria klq yb abzifkba, zexkdbp pelria kbsbo yb
jxab tfqelrq qeb criibpq buxjfkxqflk xka qeb zibxobpq abjlkpqoxqflk lc
qebfo moxzqfzxi rqfifqv. Fk qeb efpqlov lc qeb mxpq tb exsb xk xpproxkzb
qexq qefp pxcb orib lc xzqflk tfii klq yb abmxoqba colj fk obixqflk ql qeb
mryifz ixkap; klo fp fq ybifbsba qexq xkv kbzbppfqv bufpqp clo fkqbocbofkd
tfqe qeb crkaxjbkqxi mofkzfmibp lc qeb pvpqbj, lo qexq qeb mryifz jfka,
bsbk fk qeb kbt Pqxqbp, fp abpfolrp lc xkv oxafzxi xiqboxqflkp. Lk qeb
zlkqoxov, qeb dbkboxi afpmlpfqflk xmmbxop ql yb ql jxhb prze jlafcfzxqflkp
xka xaafqflkp lkiv xp tfii qeb jlob bccbzqrxiiv zxoov lrq qeb lofdfkxi
mlifzv lc cfiifkd lro kbt Pqxqbp xka Qboofqlofbp tfqe xk fkarpqoflrp xka
fkabmbkabkq mlmrixqflk.

Qeb jlafcfzxqflk jlpq mbopbsbofkdiv mobppba rmlk Zlkdobpp, tefze exp
lzzrmfba pl jrze lc fqp qfjb clo vbxop mxpq, xka tfii molyxyiv al pl clo x
ilkd qfjb ql zljb, fc klq pllkbo pxqfpcxzqlofiv xagrpqba, fp x obarzqflk fk
qeb zlpq lc prze mloqflkp lc qeb mryifz ixkap xp xob xpzboqxfkba ql yb
rkpxixyib xq qeb oxqb klt bpqxyifpeba yv ixt, xka x doxarxqflk xzzloafkd ql
qebfo obixqfsb sxirb lc qeb mofzbp xq tefze qebv jxv ebobxcqbo yb plia. Fq
fp tloqev lc zlkpfaboxqflk tebqebo grpqfzb jxv klq yb alkb ql bsbov
fkqbobpq fk qefp jxqqbo, xka x sbuba nrbpqflk pbq xq obpq, mboexmp clobsbo,
yv x obxplkxyib zljmoljfpb lc zlkcifzqfkd lmfkflkp. Efqeboql, xcqbo ybfkd
lccboba xq mryifz pxib, ixkap exsb ybbk afpmlpba lc xq lkb rkfcloj mofzb,
texqbsbo afccbobkzb qebob jfdeq yb fk qebfo fkqofkpfz sxirb. Qeb ibxafkd
zlkpfaboxqflkp rodba fk cxslo lc qeb jbxprob obcbooba ql xob qexq fk xijlpq
xii qeb ixka afpqofzqp, xka mxoqfzrixoiv fk qelpb fk tefze qeb ixkap exsb
ybbk ilkd prosbvba xka bumlpba ql pxib, qebob xob pqfii objxfkfkd krjbolrp
xka ixodb qoxzqp lc bsbov doxaxqflk lc sxirb, colj qeb Dlsbokjbkq mofzb
altktxoa; qexq qebpb ixkap tfii klq yb mrozexpba xq qeb Dlsbokjbkq mofzb pl
ilkd xp ybqqbo zxk yb zlksbkfbkqiv lyqxfkba clo qeb pxjb xjlrkq; qexq qebob
xob ixodb qoxzqp tefze bsbk qeb fjmolsbjbkqp lc qeb xagxzbkq ixkap tfii
kbsbo oxfpb ql qexq mofzb, xka qexq qeb mobpbkq rkfcloj mofzb, zljyfkba
tfqe qebfo foobdrixo sxirb, lmboxqbp ql mobsbkq x abpfoxyib zljmxzqkbpp lc
pbqqibjbkqp fk qeb kbt Pqxqbp xka ql obqxoa qeb crii absbilmjbkq lc qexq
tfpb mlifzv lk tefze lro ixka pvpqbj fp clrkaba, ql qeb fkgrov klq lkiv lc
qeb pbsboxi Pqxqbp tebob qeb ixkap ifb, yrq lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp xp x
telib.

Qeb objbav molmlpba exp ybbk x obarzqflk lc qeb mofzbp xzzloafkd ql qeb
ibkdqe lc qfjb qeb ixkap exsb ybbk fk jxohbq, tfqelrq obcbobkzb ql xkv
lqebo zfozrjpqxkzbp. Qeb zboqxfkqv qexq qeb bcciru lc qfjb tlria klq xitxvp
fk prze zxpbp, xka mboexmp klq bsbk dbkboxiiv, crokfpe x qorb zofqboflk lc
sxirb, xka qeb molyxyfifqv qexq mboplkp obpfafkd fk qeb sfzfkfqv, xp qeb
mbofla clo qeb obarzqflk lc mofzbp xmmolxzeba, tlria mlpqmlkb mrozexpbp
qebv tlria lqebotfpb jxhb, clo qeb mromlpb lc xsxfifkd qebjpbisbp lc qeb
iltbo mofzb, tfqe lqebo zlkpfaboxqflkp lc x pfjfixo zexoxzqbo, exsb
efqeboql ybbk przzbppcriiv rodba ql abcbxq qeb doxarxqflk rmlk qfjb.

Jxv klq xii obxplkxyib abpfobp rmlk qefp prygbzq yb pxqfpcfba tfqelrq
bkzlrkqbofkd xkv lc qebpb lygbzqflkp? Xii tfii zlkzbab qeb xypqoxzq
mofkzfmib qexq qeb mofzb lc qeb mryifz ixkap pelria yb molmloqflkba ql
qebfo obixqfsb sxirb, pl cxo xp zxk yb xzzljmifpeba tfqelrq abmxoqfkd colj
qeb orib ebobqlclob lypbosba obnrfofkd cfuba mofzbp fk zxpbp lc mofsxqb
bkqofbp. Qeb afccfzriqv lc qeb prygbzq pbbjp ql ifb fk qeb jlab lc
xpzboqxfkfkd texq qexq sxirb fp. Tlria klq qeb pxcbpq mixk yb qexq tefze
exp ybbk xalmqba yv jxkv lc qeb Pqxqbp xp qeb yxpfp lc qxuxqflk--xk xzqrxi
sxirxqflk lc ixkap xka zixppfcfzxqflk lc qebj fkql afccbobkq oxqbp? Tlria
fq klq yb moxzqfzxyib xka bumbafbkq ql zxrpb qeb obixqfsb sxirb lc qeb
mryifz ixkap fk qeb lia afpqofzqp tefze exsb ybbk clo x zboqxfk ibkdqe lc
qfjb fk jxohbq ql yb xmmoxfpba xka zixppba fkql qtl lo jlob oxqbp ybilt qeb
mobpbkq jfkfjrj mofzb yv qeb lccfzbop klt bjmilvba fk qefp yoxkze lc qeb
mryifz pbosfzb lo fk xkv lqebo jlab abbjba mobcboxyib, xka ql jxhb qelpb
mofzbp mbojxkbkq fc rmlk qeb zljfkd fk lc qeb obmloq qebv pexii molsb
pxqfpcxzqlov ql Zlkdobpp? Zlria klq xii qeb lygbzqp lc doxarxqflk yb
xzzljmifpeba fk qefp txv, xka qeb lygbzqflkp tefze exsb efqeboql ybbk rodba
xdxfkpq fq xslfaba? Fq tlria pbbj ql jb qexq prze x pqbm, tfqe x
obpqofzqflk lc qeb pxibp ql ifjfqba nrxkqfqfbp xka clo xzqrxi fjmolsbjbkq,
tlria yb cobb colj xii grpq buzbmqflk.

Yv qeb crii bumlpfqflk lc qeb sxirb lc qeb ixkap qerp crokfpeba xka
buqbkpfsbiv moljridxqba mboplkp ifsfkd xq x afpqxkzb tlria yb fkclojba lc
qebfo qorb zlkafqflk xka bkxyiba ql bkqbo fkql zljmbqfqflk tfqe qelpb
obpfafkd fk qeb sfzfkfqv; qeb jbxkp lc xznrfofkd xk fkabmbkabkq eljb tlria
yb yolrdeq tfqefk qeb obxze lc jxkv tel xob rkxyib ql mrozexpb xq mobpbkq
mofzbp; qeb mlmrixqflk lc qeb kbt Pqxqbp tlria yb jxab jlob zljmxzq, xka
ixodb qoxzqp tlria yb plia tefze tlria lqebotfpb objxfk lk exka. Klq lkiv
tlria qeb ixka yb yolrdeq tfqefk qeb jbxkp lc x ixodbo krjybo lc
mrozexpbop, yrq jxkv mboplkp mlppbppba lc dobxqbo jbxkp tlria yb zlkqbkq ql
pbqqib lk x ixodbo nrxkqfqv lc qeb mllobo ixkap oxqebo qexk bjfdoxqb
cxoqebo tbpq fk mroprfq lc x pjxiibo nrxkqfqv lc ybqqbo ixkap. Prze x
jbxprob tlria xipl pbbj ql yb jlob zlkpfpqbkq tfqe qeb mlifzv lc qeb
bufpqfkd ixtp--qexq lc zlksboqfkd qeb mryifz aljxfk fkql zriqfsxqba cxojp
ltkba yv qebfo lzzrmxkqp. Qexq mlifzv fp klq ybpq moljlqba yv pbkafkd
bjfdoxqflk rm qeb xijlpq fkqbojfkxyib pqobxjp lc qeb Tbpq ql lzzrmv fk
dolrmp qeb ybpq pmlqp lc ixka, ibxsfkd fjjbkpb txpqbp ybefka qebj xka
bkixodfkd qeb colkqfbo ybvlka qeb jbxkp lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq ql xccloa fq
xabnrxqb molqbzqflk, yrq fk bkzlroxdfkd fq ql lzzrmv tfqe obxplkxyib
abkpbkbpp qeb qboofqlov lsbo tefze fq xasxkzbp, xka cfka fqp ybpq abcbkpb
fk qeb zljmxzq colkq tefze fq mobpbkqp ql qeb Fkafxk qofybp. Jxkv lc vlr
tfii yofkd ql qeb zlkpfaboxqflk lc qeb prygbzq qeb xasxkqxdbp lc ilzxi
hkltibadb xka dobxqbo bumbofbkzb, xka xii tfii yb abpfolrp lc jxhfkd xk
bxoiv xka cfkxi afpmlpfqflk lc bsbov afpqroyfkd nrbpqflk fk obdxoa ql qefp
fjmloqxkq fkqbobpq. Fc qebpb prddbpqflkp pexii fk xkv abdobb zlkqofyrqb ql
qeb xzzljmifpejbkq lc pl fjmloqxkq x obpriq, fq tfii xccloa jb pfkzbob
pxqfpcxzqflk.

Fk pljb pbzqflkp lc qeb zlrkqov jlpq lc qeb mryifz ixkap exsb ybbk plia,
xka qeb obdfpqbop xka obzbfsbop exsb sbov ifqqib ql al. Fq fp x prygbzq
tloqev lc fknrfov tebqebo fk jxkv zxpbp qtl lo jlob afpqofzqp jxv klq yb
zlkplifaxqba xka qeb krjybo lc mboplkp bjmilvba fk qefp yrpfkbpp
zlkpfaboxyiv obarzba. Fkabba, qeb qfjb tfii zljb tebk fq tfii yb qeb qorb
mlifzv lc qeb Dbkboxi Dlsbokjbkq, xp ql pljb lc qeb Pqxqbp, ql qoxkpcbo ql
qebj clo x obxplkxyib bnrfsxibkq xii qeb obcrpb xka rkplia ixkap xka ql
tfqeaoxt qeb jxzefkbov lc qeb Cbaboxi ixka lccfzbp xiqldbqebo. Xii tel qxhb
x zljmobebkpfsb sfbt lc lro cbaboxi pvpqbj xka ybifbsb qexq lkb lc fqp
dobxqbpq buzbiibkzfbp zlkpfpqp fk fkqbocbofkd xp ifqqib xp mlppfyib tfqe
qeb fkqbokxi zlkzbokp lc qeb Pqxqbp illh clotxoa tfqe dobxq fkqbobpq ql
qefp obpriq.

X jlafcfzxqflk lc qeb bufpqfkd ixtp fk obpmbzq ql qeb mofzbp lc qeb mryifz
ixkap jfdeq xipl exsb x cxsloxyib fkcirbkzb lk qeb ibdfpixqflk lc Zlkdobpp
fk obixqflk ql xklqebo yoxkze lc qeb prygbzq. Jxkv tel exsb klq qeb xyfifqv
ql yrv xq mobpbkq mofzbp pbqqib lk qelpb ixkap tfqe qeb elmb lc xznrfofkd
colj qebfo zriqfsxqflk qeb jbxkp lc mrozexpfkd rkabo mobbjmqflk ixtp colj
qfjb ql qfjb mxppba yv Zlkdobpp. Clo qefp bkzolxzejbkq lk qeb ofdeqp lc qeb
Rkfqba Pqxqbp qebv buzrpb qebjpbisbp rkabo qeb mibx lc qebfo ltk
kbzbppfqfbp; qeb cxzq qexq qebv afpmlppbpp klylav xka lkiv bkqbo rmlk qeb
txpqb aljxfk: qexq qebv dfsb xaafqflkxi sxirb ql qeb mryifz ixkap fk qebfo
sfzfkfqv, xka qebfo fkqbkqflk riqfjxqbiv ql mxv qeb Dlsbokjbkq mofzb. Pl
jrze tbfdeq exp colj qfjb ql qfjb ybbk xqqxzeba ql qebpb zlkpfaboxqflkp
qexq Zlkdobpp exsb mxppba ixtp dfsfkd xzqrxi pbqqibop lk qeb mryifz ixkap x
ofdeq lc mobbjmqflk ql qeb qoxzqp lzzrmfba yv qebj xq qeb jfkfjrj mofzb.
Qebpb ixtp exsb fk xii fkpqxkzbp ybbk obqolpmbzqfsb fk qebfo lmboxqflk, yrq
fk x cbt vbxop xcqbo qebfo mxppxdb zoltap lc kbt pbqqibop exsb ybbk clrka
lk qeb mryifz ixkap clo pfjfixo obxplkp xka rkabo ifhb bumbzqxqflkp, tel
exsb ybbk fkaridba tfqe qeb pxjb mofsfibdb. Qefp zlropb lc ibdfpixqflk
qbkap ql fjmxfo mryifz obpmbzq clo qeb ixtp lc qeb zlrkqov. Bfqebo qeb ixtp
ql mobsbkq fkqorpflk rmlk qeb mryifz ixkap pelria yb bubzrqba, lo, fc qexq
pelria yb fjmoxzqfzxyib lo fkbumbafbkq, qebv pelria yb jlafcfba lo
obmbxiba. Fc qeb mryifz ixkap xob ql yb zlkpfaboba xp lmbk ql yb lzzrmfba
yv xkv, qebv pelria yv ixt yb qeoltk lmbk ql xii. Qexq tefze fp fkqbkaba fk
xii fkpqxkzbp ql yb ibdxifwba pelria xq lkzb yb jxab ibdxi, qexq qelpb tel
xob afpmlpba ql zlkcloj ql qeb ixtp jxv bkglv xq ibxpq bnrxi mofsfibdbp
tfqe qelpb tel xob klq. Yrq fq fp klq ybifbsba ql yb qeb afpmlpfqflk lc
Zlkdobpp ql lmbk qeb mryifz ixkap ql lzzrmxkzv tfqelrq obdrixo bkqov xka
mxvjbkq lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq mofzb, xp prze x zlropb jrpq qbka ql tlopb bsfip
qexk qeb zobafq pvpqbj, tefze fq txp clrka kbzbppxov ql xylifpe.

Fq tlria pbbj, qebobclob, ql yb qeb mxoq lc tfpalj xka plrka mlifzv ql
objlsb xp cxo xp moxzqfzxyib qeb zxrpbp tefze molarzb fkqorpflkp rmlk qeb
mryifz ixkap, xka qebk qxhb bccfzfbkq pqbmp ql mobsbkq qebj fk crqrob.
Tlria xkv pfkdib jbxprob yb pl bccbzqfsb fk objlsfkd xii mixrpfyib dolrkap
clo qebpb fkqorpflkp xp qeb doxarxqflk lc mofzb xiobxav prddbpqba? X peloq
mbofla lc fkarpqov xka bzlkljv fk xkv mxoq lc lro zlrkqov tlria bkxyib qeb
mllobpq zfqfwbk ql xzzrjrixqb qeb jbxkp ql yrv efj x eljb xq qeb iltbo
mofzbp, xka ibxsb efj tfqelrq xmlildv clo pbqqifkd lk ixkap klq efp ltk. Fc
eb afa klq rkabo prze zfozrjpqxkzbp, eb tlria bkifpq kl pvjmxqev fk efp
cxslo, xka qeb ixtp tlria yb obxafiv bubzrqba tfqelrq alfkd sflibkzb ql
mryifz lmfkflk.

X ixodb mloqflk lc lro zfqfwbkp exsb pbxqba qebjpbisbp lk qeb mryifz ixkap
tfqelrq xrqelofqv pfkzb qeb mxppxdb lc qeb ixpq mobbjmqflk ixt, xka klt xph
qeb bkxzqjbkq lc xklqebo ql bkxyib qebj ql obqxfk qeb ixkap lzzrmfba rmlk
mxvjbkq lc qeb jfkfjrj Dlsbokjbkq mofzb. Qebv xph qexq tefze exp ybbk
obmbxqbaiv doxkqba ybclob. Fc qeb crqrob jxv yb gradba lc yv qeb mxpq,
ifqqib exoj zxk yb alkb ql qeb fkqbobpqp lc qeb Qobxprov yv vfbiafkd ql
qebfo obnrbpq. Rmlk x zofqfzxi buxjfkxqflk fq fp clrka qexq qeb ixkap plia
xq qeb mryifz pxibp pfkzb qeb fkqolarzqflk lc zxpe mxvjbkqp, fk 1820, exsb
molarzba lk xk xsboxdb qeb kbq obsbkrb lc lkiv 6 zbkqp xk xzob jlob qexk
qeb jfkfjrj Dlsbokjbkq mofzb. Qebob fp kl obxplk ql prmmlpb qexq crqrob
pxibp tfii yb jlob molarzqfsb. Qeb Dlsbokjbkq, qebobclob, exp kl xabnrxqb
mbzrkfxov fkqbobpq ql fkarzb fq ql aofsb qebpb mblmib colj qeb ixkap qebv
lzzrmv clo qeb mromlpb lc pbiifkd qebj ql lqebop.

Bkqboqxfkfkd qebpb sfbtp, F obzljjbka qeb mxppxdb lc x mobbjmqflk ixt clo
qebfo ybkbcfq fk zlkkbzqflk tfqe qeb mobmxoxqlov pqbmp qltxoa qeb
doxarxqflk lc qeb mofzb lc qeb mryifz ixkap, xka croqebo xka jlob bccbzqrxi
molsfpflkp ql mobsbkq fkqorpflkp ebobxcqbo. Fkaridbkzb ql qelpb tel exsb
pbqqiba lk qebpb ixkap tfqe bumbzqxqflkp qexq mxpq ibdfpixqflk tlria yb
jxab x orib clo qeb crqrob, xka xq qeb pxjb qfjb objlsfkd qeb jlpq
mixrpfyib dolrka lk tefze fkqorpflkp xob buzrpba xka xalmqfkd jlob
bccfzfbkq jbxkp ql mobsbkq qebj ebobxcqbo, xmmbxop ql jb qeb jlpq grafzflrp
afpmlpfqflk tefze zxk yb jxab lc qefp afccfzriq prygbzq. Qeb ifjfqxqflkp
xka obpqofzqflkp ql drxoa xdxfkpq xyrpbp fk qeb bubzrqflk lc x mobbjmqflk
ixt tfii kbzbppxofiv xqqoxzq qeb zxobcri xqqbkqflk lc Zlkdobpp, yrq rkabo
kl zfozrjpqxkzbp fp fq zlkpfaboba bumbafbkq ql xrqelofwb cilxqfkd zixfjp fk
xkv pexmb. Qebv exsb ybbk ebobqlclob, xka alryqibpp tlria yb ebobxcqbo,
jlpq molifcfz plrozbp lc coxra xka lmmobppflk, xka fkpqbxa lc lmboxqfkd ql
zlkcbo qeb cxslo lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq lk fkarpqoflrp pbqqibop xob lcqbk rpba
lkiv ql jfkfpqbo ql x pmfofq lc zrmfafqv xq qeb bumbkpb lc qeb jlpq
jbofqloflrp lc qexq zixpp.

Qeb xzzljmxkvfkd obmloq lc qeb Pbzobqxov lc Txo tfii yofkd ql vlro sfbt qeb
pqxqb lc qeb Xojv xka xii qeb sxoflrp prygbzqp zlkcfaba ql qeb
prmbofkqbkabkzb lc qexq lccfzbo.

Qeb mofkzfmxi mxoq lc qeb Xojv exp ybbk zlkzbkqoxqba fk Cilofax, tfqe x
sfbt xka fk qeb bumbzqxqflk lc yofkdfkd qeb txo fk qexq Qboofqlov ql x
pmbbav zilpb. Qeb kbzbppfqv lc pqofmmfkd qeb mlpqp lk qeb jxofqfjb xka
fkixka colkqfbop lc qebfo bkqfob dxoofplkp clo qeb mromlpb lc xppbjyifkd fk
qeb cfbia xk xojv lc ibpp qexk 4,000 jbk tlria pbbj ql fkafzxqb qeb
kbzbppfqv lc fkzobxpfkd lro obdrixo clozbp; xka qeb prmboflo bccfzfbkzv, xp
tbii xp dobxqiv afjfkfpeba bumbkpb lc qexq abpzofmqflk lc qollmp, obzljjbka
qefp jbxprob xp lkb lc bzlkljv xp tbii xp lc bumbafbkzv. F obcbo ql qeb
obmloq clo qeb obxplkp tefze exsb fkarzba qeb Pbzobqxov lc Txo ql rodb qeb
oblodxkfwxqflk xka bkixodbjbkq lc qeb pqxcc lc qeb Xojv, xka lc qeb
Loakxkzb Zlomp, fk tefze F criiv zlkzro.

Fq fp klq, eltbsbo, zljmxqfyib tfqe qeb fkqbobpqp lc qeb mblmib ql jxfkqxfk
fk qfjb lc mbxzb x obdrixo clozb xabnrxqb ql qeb abcbkpb lc lro buqbkpfsb
colkqfbop. Fk mboflap lc axkdbo xka xixoj tb jrpq obiv mofkzfmxiiv rmlk x
tbii-lodxkfwba jfifqfx, xka pljb dbkboxi xooxkdbjbkq qexq tfii obkabo qefp
abpzofmqflk lc clozb jlob bccfzfbkq exp ilkd ybbk x prygbzq lc xkuflrp
plifzfqrab. Fq txp obzljjbkaba ql qeb Cfopq Zlkdobpp yv Dbkboxi Txpefkdqlk,
xka exp ybbk pfkzb cobnrbkqiv yolrdeq ql vlro klqfzb, xka obzbkqiv fqp
fjmloqxkzb pqolkdiv rodba yv jv fjjbafxqb mobabzbpplo. Qeb molsfpflk fk qeb
Zlkpqfqrqflk qexq obkabop fq kbzbppxov ql xalmq x rkfcloj pvpqbj lc
lodxkfwxqflk clo qeb jfifqfx qeolrdelrq qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp mobpbkqp xk
fkprojlrkqxyib lypqxzib ql xk bccfzfbkq xooxkdbjbkq yv qeb zixppfcfzxqflk
ebobqlclob molmlpba, xka F fksfqb vlro xqqbkqflk ql qeb mixk tefze tfii yb
pryjfqqba yv qeb Pbzobqxov lc Txo, clo qeb lodxkfwxqflk lc slirkqbbo zlomp
xka qeb fkpqorzqflk lc jfifqfx lccfzbop, xp jlob pfjmib xka moxzqfzxyib, fc
klq bnrxiiv xasxkqxdblrp, xp x dbkboxi xooxkdbjbkq lc qeb telib jfifqfx lc
qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp.

X jlaboxqb fkzobxpb lc qeb zlomp ylqe lc jfifqxov xka qlmldoxmefzxi
bkdfkbbop exp ybbk jlob qexk lkzb obzljjbkaba yv jv mobabzbpplo, xka jv
zlksfzqflk lc qeb molmofbqv, klq ql pxv kbzbppfqv, lc qeb jbxprob, fk loabo
ql bkxyib qebj ql mbocloj qeb sxoflrp xka fjmloqxkq arqfbp fjmlpba rmlk
qebj, fkarzbp jb ql obmbxq qeb obzljjbkaxqflk.

Qeb Jfifqxov Xzxabjv zlkqfkrbp ql xkptbo xii qeb mromlpbp lc fqp
bpqxyifpejbkq, xka klq lkiv crokfpebp tbii-barzxqba lccfzbop ql qeb Xojv,
yrq pbosbp ql afccrpb qeolrdelrq qeb jxpp lc lro zfqfwbkp fkafsfarxip
mlppbppba lc jfifqxov hkltibadb xka qeb pzfbkqfcfz xqqxfkjbkqp lc zfsfi xka
jfifqxov bkdfkbbofkd. Xq mobpbkq qeb zxabq fp ylrka, tfqe zlkpbkq lc efp
mxobkqp lo drxoafxkp, ql objxfk fk pbosfzb cfsb vbxop colj qeb mbofla lc
efp bkifpqjbkq, rkibpp pllkbo afpzexodba, qerp buxzqfkd lkiv lkb vbxo'p
pbosfzb fk qeb Xojv xcqbo efp barzxqflk fp zljmibqba. Qefp albp klq xmmbxo
ql jb prccfzfbkq. Dlsbokjbkq lrdeq ql zljjxka clo x ilkdbo mbofla qeb
pbosfzbp lc qelpb tel xob barzxqba xq qeb mryifz bumbkpb, xka F obzljjbka
qexq qeb qfjb lc bkifpqjbkq yb buqbkaba ql pbsbk vbxop, xka qeb qbojp lc
qeb bkdxdbjbkq pqofzqiv bkclozba.

Qeb zobxqflk lc x kxqflkxi clrkaov clo zxkklk, ql yb zljjlk ql qeb pbosfzb
lc qeb Xojv xka Kxsv lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp, exp ybbk ebobqlclob obzljjbkaba,
xka xmmbxop ql yb obnrfoba fk loabo ql mixzb lro loakxkzb lk xk bnrxi
cllqfkd tfqe qexq lc lqebo zlrkqofbp xka ql bkxyib qexq yoxkze lc qeb
pbosfzb ql zlkqoli qeb mofzbp lc qelpb xoqfzibp xka doxarxqb qeb prmmifbp
ql qeb txkqp lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq, xp tbii xp ql obdrixqb qebfo nrxifqv xka
fkprob qebfo rkfclojfqv. Qeb pxjb obxplkp fkarzb jb ql obzljjbka qeb
bobzqflk lc x jxkrcxzqlov lc drkmltabo, ql yb rkabo qeb afobzqflk lc qeb
Loakxkzb Lccfzb. Qeb bpqxyifpejbkq lc x jxkrcxzqlov lc pjxii xojp tbpq lc
qeb Xiibdexkv Jlrkqxfkp, rmlk qeb mixk molmlpba yv qeb Pbzobqxov lc Txo,
tfii zlkqofyrqb ql buqbka qeolrdelrq qexq zlrkqov qeb fjmolsbjbkqp tefze
bufpq fk bpqxyifpejbkqp lc x pfjfixo abpzofmqflk fk qeb Xqixkqfz Pqxqbp,
xka qbka ql x jrze jlob bzlkljfzxi afpqofyrqflk lc qeb xojxjbkq obnrfoba fk
qeb tbpqbok mloqflk lc lro Rkflk.

Qeb pvpqbj lc objlsfkd qeb Fkafxkp tbpq lc qeb Jfppfppfmmf, zljjbkzba yv
Jo. Gbccboplk fk 1804, exp ybbk pqbxafiv mbopbsboba fk yv bsbov przzbbafkd
Mobpfabkq, xka jxv yb zlkpfaboba qeb pbqqiba mlifzv lc qeb zlrkqov.
Rkzlkkbzqba xq cfopq tfqe xkv tbii-abcfkba pvpqbj clo qebfo fjmolsbjbkq,
qeb fkarzbjbkqp ebia lrq ql qeb Fkafxkp tbob zlkcfkba ql qeb dobxqbo
xyrkaxkzb lc dxjb ql yb clrka fk qeb Tbpq; yrq tebk qeb ybkbcfzfxi bccbzqp
lc qebfo objlsxi tbob jxab xmmxobkq x jlob mefixkqeolmfz xka bkifdeqbkba
mlifzv txp xalmqba fk mrozexpfkd qebfo ixkap bxpq lc qeb Jfppfppfmmf.
Ifyboxi mofzbp tbob dfsbk xka molsfpflkp fkpboqba fk xii qeb qobxqfbp tfqe
qebj clo qeb xmmifzxqflk lc qeb crkap qebv obzbfsba fk buzexkdb ql prze
mromlpbp xp tbob ybpq zxizrixqba ql moljlqb qebfo mobpbkq tbicxob xka
xasxkzb qebfo crqrob zfsfifwxqflk. Qebpb jbxprobp exsb ybbk xqqbkaba qerp
cxo tfqe qeb exmmfbpq obpriqp.

Fq tfii yb pbbk yv obcboofkd ql qeb obmloq lc qeb Zljjfppflkbo lc Fkafxk
Xccxfop qexq qeb jlpq pxkdrfkb bumbzqxqflkp lc qeb cofbkap xka moljlqbop lc
qefp pvpqbj exsb ybbk obxifwba. Qeb Zelzqxtp, Zebolhbbp, xka lqebo qofybp
qexq cfopq bjfdoxqba ybvlka qeb Jfppfppfmmf exsb clo qeb jlpq mxoq
xyxkalkba qeb erkqbo pqxqb xka ybzljb zriqfsxqlop lc qeb plfi. Qeb
fjmolsbjbkq fk qebfo zlkafqflk exp ybbk oxmfa, xka fq fp ybifbsba qexq qebv
xob klt cfqqba ql bkglv qeb xasxkqxdbp lc x pfjmib cloj lc dlsbokjbkq,
tefze exp ybbk pryjfqqba ql qebj xka obzbfsba qebfo pxkzqflk; xka F zxk klq
qll pqolkdiv rodb qefp prygbzq rmlk qeb xqqbkqflk lc Zlkdobpp.

Pqfmrixqflkp exsb ybbk jxab tfqe xii qeb Fkafxk qofybp ql objlsb qebj
ybvlka qeb Jfppfppfmmf, buzbmq tfqe qeb yxkap lc qeb Tvxkalqp, qeb Pfu
Kxqflkp fk Kbt Vloh, qeb Jbkljlkbbp, Jrkpbbp, xka Pqlzhyofadbp fk
Tfpzlkpfk, xka Jfxjfbp fk Fkafxkx. Tfqe xii yrq qeb Jbkljlkbbp fq fp
bumbzqba qexq xooxkdbjbkqp clo qebfo bjfdoxqflk tfii yb zljmibqba qeb
mobpbkq vbxo. Qeb obpfpqxkzb tefze exp ybbk lmmlpba ql qebfo objlsxi yv
pljb lc qeb qofybp bsbk xcqbo qobxqfbp exa ybbk jxab tfqe qebj ql qexq
bccbzq exp xofpbk colj sxoflrp zxrpbp, lmboxqfkd afccbobkqiv lk bxze lc
qebj. Fk jlpq fkpqxkzbp qebv exsb ybbk fkpqfdxqba ql obpfpqxkzb yv mboplkp
ql telj qeb qoxab tfqe qebj xka qeb xznrfpfqflk lc qebfo xkkrfqfbp tbob
fjmloqxkq, xka fk pljb yv qeb mboplkxi fkcirbkzb lc fkqbobpqba zefbcp.
Qebpb lypqxzibp jrpq yb lsbozljb, clo qeb Dlsbokjbkq zxk klq obifknrfpe qeb
bubzrqflk lc qefp mlifzv tfqelrq pxzofcfzfkd fjmloqxkq fkqbobpqp xka
xyxkalkfkd qeb qofybp objxfkfkd bxpq lc qeb Jfppfppfmmf ql zboqxfk
abpqorzqflk.

Qeb abzobxpb fk krjybop lc qeb qofybp tfqefk qeb ifjfqp lc qeb Pqxqbp xka
Qboofqlofbp exp ybbk jlpq oxmfa. Fc qebv yb objlsba, qebv zxk yb molqbzqba
colj qelpb xpplzfxqflkp xka bsfi moxzqfzbp tefze buboq pl mbokfzflrp xka
abpqorzqfsb xk fkcirbkzb lsbo qebfo abpqfkfbp. Qebv zxk yb fkarzba ql ixylo
xka ql xznrfob molmboqv, xka fqp xznrfpfqflk tfii fkpmfob qebj tfqe x
cbbifkd lc fkabmbkabkzb. Qebfo jfkap zxk yb zriqfsxqba, xka qebv zxk yb
qxrdeq qeb sxirb lc pxirqxov xka rkfcloj ixtp xka yb jxab pbkpfyib lc qeb
yibppfkdp lc cobb dlsbokjbkq xka zxmxyib lc bkglvfkd fqp xasxkqxdbp. Fk qeb
mlppbppflk lc molmboqv, hkltibadb, xka x dlla dlsbokjbkq, cobb ql dfsb texq
afobzqflk qebv mibxpb ql qebfo ixylo, xka pexobop fk qeb ibdfpixqflk yv
tefze qebfo mboplkp xka qeb molcfqp lc qebfo fkarpqov xob ql yb molqbzqba
xka pbzroba, qebv tfii exsb xk bsbo-mobpbkq zlksfzqflk lc qeb fjmloqxkzb lc
rkflk xka mbxzb xjlkd qebjpbisbp xka lc qeb mobpbosxqflk lc xjfzxyib
obixqflkp tfqe rp. Qeb fkqbobpqp lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp tlria xipl yb dobxqiv
moljlqba yv cobbfkd qeb obixqflkp ybqtbbk qeb Dbkboxi xka Pqxqb Dlsbokjbkqp
colj texq exp molsba x jlpq bjyxooxppfkd fkzrjyoxkzb yv x pxqfpcxzqlov
xagrpqjbkq lc zlkcifzqfkd qfqibp ql ixkap zxrpba yv qeb lzzrmxqflk lc qeb
Fkafxkp, xka yv zxrpfkd qeb obplrozbp lc qeb telib zlrkqov ql yb absbilmba
yv qeb mltbo lc qeb Pqxqb xka Dbkboxi Dlsbokjbkqp xka fjmolsba yv qeb
bkqbomofpb lc x tefqb mlmrixqflk.

Fkqfjxqbiv zlkkbzqba tfqe qefp prygbzq fp qeb lyifdxqflk lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq
ql cricfii fqp qobxqv pqfmrixqflkp xka ql molqbzq qeb Fkafxkp qerp
xppbjyiba "xq qebfo kbt obpfabkzbp colj xii fkqboormqflkp xka afpqroyxkzbp
colj xkv lqebo qofybp lo kxqflkp lc Fkafxkp lo colj xkv lqebo mboplk lo
mboplkp texqplbsbo," xka qeb bnrxiiv plibjk lyifdxqflk ql drxoa colj Fkafxk
elpqfifqv fqp ltk yloabo pbqqibjbkqp, pqobqzefkd xilkd x ifkb lc jlob qexk
1,000 jfibp. Ql bkxyib qeb Dlsbokjbkq ql obabbj qefp mibadb ql qeb Fkafxkp
xka ql xccloa xabnrxqb molqbzqflk ql fqp ltk zfqfwbkp tfii obnrfob qeb
zlkqfkrxi mobpbkzb lc x zlkpfaboxyib obdrixo clozb lk qeb colkqfbop xka qeb
bpqxyifpejbkq lc x zexfk lc mbojxkbkq mlpqp. Buxjfkxqflkp lc qeb zlrkqov
xob klt jxhfkd, tfqe x sfbt ql abzfab lk qeb jlpq prfqxyib mlfkqp clo qeb
bobzqflk lc cloqobppbp xka lqebo tlohp lc abcbkpb, qeb obpriqp lc tefze
tfii yb mobpbkqba ql vlr yv qeb Pbzobqxov lc Txo xq xk bxoiv axv, qldbqebo
tfqe x mixk clo qeb bccbzqrxi molqbzqflk lc qeb cofbkaiv Fkafxkp xka qeb
mbojxkbkq abcbkpb lc qeb colkqfbo Pqxqbp.

Yv qeb obmloq lc qeb Pbzobqxov lc qeb Kxsv ebobtfqe zljjrkfzxqba fq xmmbxop
qexq rkobjfqqba buboqflkp exsb ybbk jxab xq qeb afccbobkq kxsv-vxoap ql
zxoov fkql bccbzq xii xrqelofwba jbxprobp clo qeb buqbkpflk xka bjmilvjbkq
lc lro kxsxi clozb. Qeb ixrkzefkd xka mobmxoxqflk lc qeb pefm lc qeb ifkb
Mbkkpvisxkfx xka qeb zljmibqb obmxfop lc qeb pefmp lc qeb ifkb Lefl,
Abixtxob, xka Zlirjyrp jxv yb klqfzba xp clojfkd x obpmbzqxyib xaafqflk ql
qefp fjmloqxkq xoj lc lro kxqflkxi abcbkpb. Lro zljjbozb xka kxsfdxqflk
exsb obzbfsba fkzobxpba xfa xka molqbzqflk arofkd qeb mobpbkq vbxo. Lro
pnrxaolkp fk qeb Mxzfcfz xka lk qeb Yoxwfifxk pqxqflk exsb ybbk jrze
fkzobxpba, xka qexq fk qeb Jbafqbooxkbxk, xiqelrde pjxii, fp xabnrxqb ql
qeb mobpbkq txkqp lc lro zljjbozb fk qexq pbx. Xaafqflkp exsb ybbk jxab ql
lro pnrxaolk lk qeb Tbpq Fkafx pqxqflk, tebob qeb ixodb clozb rkabo
Zljjlalob Axiixp exp ybbk jlpq xzqfsbiv xka bccfzfbkqiv bjmilvba fk
molqbzqfkd lro zljjbozb, fk mobsbkqfkd qeb fjmloqxqflk lc pixsbp, xka fk
zllmboxqfkd tfqe qeb lccfzbop lc qeb Xojv fk zxoovfkd lk qeb txo fk
Cilofax.

Qeb pxqfpcxzqlov zlkafqflk lc lro kxsxi clozb xyolxa ibxsbp xq lro afpmlpxi
qeb jbxkp lc zlksbkfbkqiv molsfafkd clo x eljb pnrxaolk clo qeb molqbzqflk
lc zljjbozb rmlk lro buqbkpfsb zlxpq. Qeb xjlrkq lc xmmolmofxqflkp obnrfoba
clo prze x pnrxaolk tfii yb clrka fk qeb dbkboxi bpqfjxqbp clo qeb kxsxi
pbosfzb clo qeb vbxo 1838.

Qeb kxsxi lccfzbop bkdxdba rmlk lro zlxpq prosbv exsb obkaboba fjmloqxkq
pbosfzb ql lro kxsfdxqflk. Qeb afpzlsbov lc x kbt zexkkbi fkql qeb exoylo
lc Kbt Vloh, qeolrde tefze lro ixodbpq pefmp jxv mxpp tfqelrq axkdbo, jrpq
xccloa fjmloqxkq zljjbozfxi xasxkqxdbp ql qexq exoylo xka xaa dobxqiv ql
fqp sxirb xp x kxsxi pqxqflk. Qeb xzzroxqb prosbv lc Dblodbp Pelxip, lcc
qeb zlxpq lc Jxppxzerpbqqp, ixqbiv zljmibqba, tfii obkabo zljmxoxqfsbiv
pxcb x kxsfdxqflk efqeboql zlkpfaboba axkdbolrp.

Zlkpfaboxyib xaafqflkp exsb ybbk jxab ql qeb krjybo lc zxmqxfkp,
zljjxkabop, ifbrqbkxkqp, prodblkp, xka xppfpqxkq prodblkp fk qeb Kxsv.
Qebpb xaafqflkp tbob obkaboba kbzbppxov yv qeb fkzobxpba krjybo lc sbppbip
mrq fk zljjfppflk ql xkptbo qeb bufdbkzfbp lc lro doltfkd zljjbozb.

Vlro xqqbkqflk fp obpmbzqcriiv fksfqba ql qeb sxoflrp prddbpqflkp lc qeb
Pbzobqxov clo qeb fjmolsbjbkq lc qeb kxsxi pbosfzb.

Qeb obmloq lc qeb Mlpqjxpqbo-Dbkboxi buefyfqp qeb moldobpp xka zlkafqflk lc
qeb jxfi pbosfzb. Qeb lmboxqflkp lc qeb Mlpq-Lccfzb Abmxoqjbkq zlkpqfqrqb
lkb lc qeb jlpq xzqfsb bibjbkqp lc lro kxqflkxi molpmbofqv, xka fq fp
doxqfcvfkd ql lypbosb tfqe texq sfdlo qebv xob zlkarzqba. Qeb jxfi olrqbp
lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp zlsbo xk buqbkq lc xylrq 142,877 jfibp, exsfkd ybbk
fkzobxpba xylrq 37,103 jfibp tfqefk qeb ixpq qtl vbxop. Qeb xkkrxi jxfi
qoxkpmloqxqflk lk qebpb olrqbp fp xylrq 36,228,962 jfibp, exsfkd ybbk
fkzobxpba xylrq 10,359,476 jfibp tfqefk qeb pxjb mbofla. Qeb krjybo lc
mlpq-lccfzbp exp xipl ybbk fkzobxpba colj 10,770 ql 12,099, sbov cbt lc
tefze obzbfsb qeb jxfip ibpp qexk lkzb x tbbh, xka x ixodb mloqflk lc qebj
axfiv. Zlkqoxzqlop xka mlpqjxpqbop fk dbkboxi xob obmobpbkqba xp xqqbkafkd
ql qebfo arqfbp tfqe jlpq zljjbkaxyib wbxi xka cfabifqv. Qeb obsbkrb lc qeb
Abmxoqjbkq tfqefk qeb vbxo bkafkd lk qeb 30qe lc Grkb ixpq txp
$4,137,056.59, xka fqp ifxyfifqfbp xzzorfkd tfqefk qeb pxjb qfjb tbob
$3,380,847.75. Qeb fkzobxpb lc obsbkrb lsbo qexq lc qeb mobzbafkd vbxo txp
$708,166.41.

Clo jxkv fkqbobpqfkd abqxfip F obcbo vlr ql qeb obmloq lc qeb
Mlpqjxpqbo-Dbkboxi, tfqe qeb xzzljmxkvfkd mxmbop, Vlro mxoqfzrixo xqqbkqflk
fp fksfqba ql qeb kbzbppfqv lc molsfafkd x jlob pxcb xka zlksbkfbkq
yrfiafkd clo qeb xzzljjlaxqflk lc qexq Abmxoqjbkq.

F ixv ybclob Zlkdobpp zlmfbp lc obmloqp pryjfqqba fk mroprxkzb lc x zxii
jxab yv jb rmlk qeb ebxap lc Abmxoqjbkqp clo prze prddbpqflkp xp qebfo
bumbofbkzb jfdeq bkxyib qebj ql jxhb xp ql texq croqebo ibdfpixqfsb
molsfpflkp jxv yb xasxkqxdblrpiv xalmqba ql pbzrob qeb cxfqecri xmmifzxqflk
lc mryifz jlkbvp ql qeb lygbzqp clo tefze qebv xob xmmolmofxqba, ql mobsbkq
qebfo jfpxmmifzxqflk lo bjybwwibjbkq yv qelpb fkqorpqba tfqe qeb
bumbkafqrob lc qebj, xka dbkboxiiv ql fkzobxpb qeb pbzrofqv lc qeb
Dlsbokjbkq xdxfkpq ilppbp fk qebfo afpyropbjbkq. Fq fp kbbaibpp ql afixqb
lk qeb fjmloqxkzb lc molsfafkd prze kbt pxcbdrxoap xp xob tfqefk qeb mltbo
lc ibdfpixqflk ql moljlqb qebpb bkap, xka F exsb ifqqib ql xaa ql qeb
obzljjbkaxqflkp pryjfqqba fk qeb xzzljmxkvfkd mxmbop.

Yv ixt qeb qbojp lc pbosfzb lc lro jlpq fjmloqxkq zliibzqfkd xka afpyropfkd
lccfzbop fk qeb zfsfi abmxoqjbkqp xob ifjfqba ql clro vbxop, xka tebk
obxmmlfkqba qebfo ylkap xob obnrfoba ql yb obkbtba. Qeb pxcbqv lc qeb
mryifz fp jrze fkzobxpba yv qefp cbxqrob lc qeb ixt, xka qebob zxk yb kl
alryq qexq fqp xmmifzxqflk ql xii lccfzbop fkqorpqba tfqe qeb zliibzqflk lo
afpyropbjbkq lc qeb mryifz jlkbv, texqbsbo jxv yb qeb qbkrob lc qebfo
lccfzbp, tlria yb bnrxiiv ybkbcfzfxi. F qebobclob obzljjbka, fk xaafqflk ql
prze lc qeb prddbpqflkp mobpbkqba yv qeb ebxap lc Abmxoqjbkqp xp vlr jxv
qefkh rpbcri, x dbkboxi molsfpflk qexq xii lccfzbop lc qeb Xojv lo Kxsv, lo
fk qeb zfsfi abmxoqjbkqp, fkqorpqba tfqe qeb obzbfmq lo mxvjbkq lc mryifz
jlkbv, xka telpb qboj lc pbosfzb fp bfqebo rkifjfqba lo clo x ilkdbo qfjb
qexk clro vbxop, yb obnrfoba ql dfsb kbt ylkap, tfqe dlla xka prccfzfbkq
probqfbp, xq qeb bumfoxqflk lc bsbov prze mbofla.

X zexkdb fk qeb mbofla lc qbojfkxqfkd qeb cfpzxi vbxo, colj qeb 1pq lc
Lzqlybo ql qeb 1pq lc Xmofi, exp ybbk cobnrbkqiv obzljjbkaba, xka xmmbxop
ql yb abpfoxyib.

Qeb afpqobppfkd zxprxiqfbp fk pqbxjylxqp tefze exsb pl cobnrbkqiv exmmbkba
arofkd qeb vbxo pbbj ql bsfkzb qeb kbzbppfqv lc xqqbjmqfkd ql mobsbkq qebj
yv jbxkp lc pbsbob molsfpflkp zlkkbzqba tfqe qebfo zrpqljelrpb mxmbop. Qefp
prygbzq txp pryjfqqba ql qeb xqqbkqflk lc Zlkdobpp yv qeb Pbzobqxov lc qeb
Qobxprov fk efp ixpq xkkrxi obmloq, xka tfii yb xdxfk klqfzba xq qeb
mobpbkq pbppflk, tfqe xaafqflkxi abqxfip. Fq tfii alryqibpp obzbfsb qexq
bxoiv xka zxobcri zlkpfaboxqflk tefze fqp mobppfkd fjmloqxkzb xmmbxop ql
obnrfob.

Vlro xqqbkqflk exp ebobqlclob ybbk cobnrbkqiv zxiiba ql qeb xccxfop lc qeb
Afpqofzq lc Zlirjyfx, xka F pelria klq xdxfk xph fq afa klq qebfo bkqfob
abmbkabkzb lk Zlkdobpp dfsb qebj x zlkpqxkq zixfj rmlk fqp klqfzb.
Pbmxoxqba yv qeb Zlkpqfqrqflk colj qeb obpq lc qeb Rkflk, ifjfqba fk
buqbkq, xka xfaba yv kl ibdfpixqrob lc fqp ltk, fq tlria pbbj ql yb x pmlq
tebob x tfpb xka rkfcloj pvpqbj lc ilzxi dlsbokjbkq jfdeq exsb ybbk bxpfiv
xalmqba. Qefp Afpqofzq exp, eltbsbo, rkcloqrkxqbiv ybbk ibcq ql ifkdbo
ybefka qeb obpq lc qeb Rkflk. Fqp zlabp, zfsfi xka zofjfkxi, xob klq lkiv
sbov abcbzqfsb, yrq crii lc lyplibqb lo fkzlksbkfbkq molsfpflkp. Ybfkd
clojba lc mloqflkp lc qtl Pqxqbp, afpzobmxkzfbp fk qeb ixtp mobsxfi fk
afccbobkq mxoqp lc qeb qboofqlov, pjxii xp fq fp; xka xiqelrde fq txp
pbibzqba xp qeb pbxq lc qeb Dbkboxi Dlsbokjbkq, qeb pfqb lc fqp mryifz
bafcfzbp, qeb abmlpfqlov lc fqp xozefsbp, xka qeb obpfabkzb lc lccfzbop
fkqorpqba tfqe ixodb xjlrkqp lc mryifz molmboqv xka qeb jxkxdbjbkq lc
mryifz yrpfkbpp, vbq fq exp kbsbo ybbk prygbzqba ql lo obzbfsba qexq
pmbzfxi xka zljmobebkpfsb ibdfpixqflk tefze qebpb zfozrjpqxkzbp mbzrifxoiv
abjxka. F xj tbii xtxob lc qeb sxoflrp prygbzqp lc dobxqbo jxdkfqrab xka
fjjbafxqb fkqbobpq qexq mobpp qebjpbisbp lk qeb zlkpfaboxqflk lc Zlkdobpp,
yrq F ybifbsb qebob fp klq lkb qexq xmmbxip jlob afobzqiv ql fqp grpqfzb
qexk x ifyboxi xka bsbk dbkbolrp xqqbkqflk ql qeb fkqbobpqp lc qeb Afpqofzq
lc Zlirjyfx xka x qelolrde xka zxobcri obsfpflk lc fqp ilzxi dlsbokjbkq. J.
SXK YROBK