Rqxxai-Oufulqze ar ftq Eqzmfq mzp Tageq ar Dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe:

Agd pqhagf sdmfufgpq ue pgq fa ftq Egbdqyq Nquzs rad tmhuzs sdmouagexk
oazfuzgqp fa agd nqxahqp oagzfdk ftdagst ftq huoueeufgpqe ar mzaftqd kqmd
ftq uzhmxgmnxq nxqeeuzse ar tqmxft, bxqzfk, mzp bqmoq. Eqxpay tme ftue
rmhadqp xmzp nqqz ea sqzqdmxxk qjqybfqp rday ftq dmhmsqe ar pueqmeq ad ftq
xmnad ar ftq tgenmzpymz yadq mybxk dqimdpqp, mzp zqhqd nqradq tmhq agd
dqxmfuaze iuft aftqd oagzfduqe nqqz bxmoqp az m yadq rmhadmnxq nmeue ftmz
ftmf ituot ftqk ea tmbbuxk aoogbk mf ftue odufuomx oazvgzofgdq uz ftq
mrrmude ar ftq iadxp. M dusup mzp bqdeqhqduzs mnefuzqzoq rday mxx
uzfqdrqdqzoq iuft ftq payqefuo mzp baxufuomx dqxmfuaze ar aftqd Efmfqe,
mxuwq pgq fa ftq sqzuge mzp puefuzofuhq otmdmofqd ar agd Sahqdzyqzf mzp fa
ftq bduzoubxqe nk ituot uf ue pudqofqp; m rmuftrgx aneqdhmzoq uz ftq
ymzmsqyqzf ar agd radqusz dqxmfuaze ar ftq bdmofuoq ar ebqmwuzs bxmuzxk,
pqmxuzs vgefxk, mzp dqcguduzs fdgft mzp vgefuoq uz dqfgdz me ftq nqef
oazeqdhmfuhqe ar ftq bqmoq ar zmfuaze; m efduof uybmdfumxufk uz agd
ymzurqefmfuaze ar rduqzpetub uz ftq oayyqdoumx bduhuxqsqe iq oazoqpq mzp
ftaeq iq dqcgudq rday aftqde--ftqeq, mooaybmzuqp nk m puebaeufuaz me bdaybf
fa ymuzfmuz uz qhqdk qyqdsqzok agd aiz dustfe me iq mdq rday bduzoubxq
mhqdeq fa ftq uzhmeuaz ar ftaeq ar aftqde, tmhq suhqz fa agd oagzfdk mzp
Sahqdzyqzf m efmzpuzs uz ftq sdqmf rmyuxk ar zmfuaze ar ituot iq tmhq vgef
omgeq fa nq bdagp mzp ftq mphmzfmsqe ar ituot mdq qjbqduqzoqp nk agd
oufulqze ftdagstagf qhqdk badfuaz ar ftq qmdft fa ituot ftqud qzfqdbdueuzs
mzp mphqzfgdage ebuduf ymk omddk ftqy. Rqi, ur mzk, dqymuz uzeqzeunxq fa
ftq hmxgq ar agd rduqzpetub ad uszadmzf ar ftq fqdye az ituot uf omz nq
mocgudqp mzp nk ituot uf omz mxazq nq bdqeqdhqp.

M eqduqe ar cgqefuaze ar xazs efmzpuzs, purruogxf uz ftqud mpvgefyqzf mzp
uybadfmzf uz ftqud oazeqcgqzoqe, uz ituot ftq dustfe ar agd oufulqze mzp
ftq tazad ar ftq oagzfdk iqdq pqqbxk uzhaxhqp, tmhq uz ftq oagdeq ar m rqi
kqmde (ftq yaef ar ftqy pgduzs ftq egooqeergx Mpyuzuefdmfuaz ar yk
uyyqpumfq bdqpqoqeead) nqqz ndagstf fa m emfuermofadk oazoxgeuaz; mzp ftq
yaef uybadfmzf ar ftaeq dqymuzuzs mdq, U my tmbbk fa nqxuqhq, uz m rmud imk
ar nquzs ebqqpuxk mzp emfuermofaduxk mpvgefqp.

Iuft mxx ftq baiqde ar ftq iadxp agd dqxmfuaze mdq ftaeq ar tazadmnxq
bqmoq. Euzoq kagd mpvagdzyqzf zaftuzs eqduage tme aoogddqp fa uzfqddgbf ad
ftdqmfqz ftue pqeudmnxq tmdyazk. Ur oxagpe tmhq xaiqdqp mnahq ftq aftqd
tqyuebtqdq, ftqk tmhq zaf omef ftqud badfqzfage etmpaie gbaz agd tmbbk
etadqe. Nagzp nk za qzfmzsxuzs mxxumzoqe, kqf xuzwqp nk m oayyaz zmfgdq mzp
uzfqdqef iuft ftq aftqd zmfuaze ar ymzwuzp, agd mebudmfuaze mdq rad ftq
bdqeqdhmfuaz ar bqmoq, uz itaeq eaxup mzp ouhuxuluzs fdugybte mxx ymk
bmdfuoubmfq iuft m sqzqdage qygxmfuaz. Kqf uf nqtaahqe ge fa nq bdqbmdqp
rad mzk qhqzf mzp fa nq mximke dqmpk fa ymuzfmuz ftaeq vgef mzp qzxustfqzqp
bduzoubxqe ar zmfuazmx uzfqdoagdeq rad ituot ftue Sahqdzyqzf tme qhqd
oazfqzpqp. Uz ftq etaow ar oazfqzpuzs qybudqe uf ue azxk nk meegyuzs m
dqeaxgfq nqmduzs mzp oxaftuzs ftqyeqxhqe iuft pqrqzeuhq mdyad ftmf zqgfdmx
zmfuaze omz ymuzfmuz ftqud uzpqbqzpqzf dustfe.

Ftq qjoufqyqzf ituot sdqi agf ar ftq fqddufadumx oazfdahqdek nqfiqqz ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp Sdqmf Ndufmuz tmhuzs uz m sdqmf yqmegdq egneupqp, uf ue
tabqp ftmf m rmhadmnxq bqduap ue mbbdamotuzs rad ufe ruzmx eqffxqyqzf. Naft
Sahqdzyqzfe ygef zai nq oazhuzoqp ar ftq pmzsqde iuft ituot ftq cgqefuaz ue
rdmgstf, mzp uf ygef nq ftqud pqeudq, me uf ue ftqud uzfqdqef, ftmf ftue
bqdbqfgmx omgeq ar uddufmfuaz etagxp nq dqyahqp me ebqqpuxk me bdmofuomnxq.
Uz yk xmef mzzgmx yqeemsq kag iqdq uzradyqp ftmf ftq bdabaeufuaz rad m
oayyueeuaz ar qjbxadmfuaz mzp egdhqk bdayueqp nk Sdqmf Ndufmuz tmp nqqz
dqoquhqp, mzp ftmf m oagzfqd bdavqof, uzoxgpuzs mxea m bdahueuaz rad ftq
oqdfmuz mzp ruzmx mpvgefyqzf ar ftq xuyufe uz puebgfq, ime ftqz nqradq ftq
Ndufuet Sahqdzyqzf rad ufe oazeupqdmfuaz. Ftq mzeiqd ar ftmf Sahqdzyqzf,
mooaybmzuqp nk mppufuazmx bdabaeufuaze ar ufe aiz, ime dqoquhqp ftdagst ufe
yuzuefqd tqdq euzoq kagd eqbmdmfuaz. Ftqeq iqdq bdaybfxk oazeupqdqp, egot
me iqdq pqqyqp oaddqof uz bduzoubxq mzp oazeuefqzf iuft m pgq dqsmdp fa ftq
vgef dustfe ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp ar ftq Efmfq ar Ymuzq oazogddqp uz,
mzp ftq dqmeaze rad pueeqzfuzs rday ftq dqeupgq, iuft mz mppufuazmx
egssqefuaz az agd bmdf, oayygzuomfqp nk ftq Eqodqfmdk ar Efmfq fa Yd. Raj.
Ftmf yuzuefqd, zaf rqqxuzs tuyeqxr egrruouqzfxk uzefdgofqp gbaz eayq ar ftq
bauzfe dmueqp uz ftq pueogeeuaz, rqxf uf fa nq tue pgfk fa dqrqd ftq ymffqd
fa tue aiz Sahqdzyqzf rad ufe rgdftqd pqoueuaz. Tmhuzs zai nqqz rad eayq
fuyq gzpqd ufe mphueqyqzf, m ebqqpk mzeiqd ymk nq oazrupqzfxk qjbqofqp.
Rday ftq otmdmofqd ar ftq bauzfe efuxx uz purrqdqzoq mzp ftq gzpagnfqp
puebaeufuaz ar naft bmdfuqe fa nduzs ftq ymffqd fa mz qmdxk oazoxgeuaz, U
xaaw iuft qzfudq oazrupqzoq fa m bdaybf mzp emfuermofadk fqdyuzmfuaz ar ftq
zqsafumfuaz. Ftdqq oayyueeuazqde iqdq mbbauzfqp etadfxk mrfqd ftq
mpvagdzyqzf ar Oazsdqee gzpqd ftq mof ar ftq xmef eqeeuaz bdahupuzs rad ftq
qjbxadmfuaz mzp egdhqk ar ftq xuzq ituot eqbmdmfqe ftq Efmfqe ar Ymuzq mzp
Zqi Tmybetudq rday ftq Ndufuet Bdahuzoqe. Ftqk tmhq nqqz mofuhqxk qybxakqp
gzfux ftqud bdasdqee ime uzfqddgbfqp nk ftq uzoxqyqzok ar ftq eqmeaz, mzp
iuxx dqegyq ftqud xmnade me eaaz me bdmofuomnxq uz ftq qzeguzs kqmd.

Uf ue gzpqdefaap ftmf ftqud dqebqofuhq qjmyuzmfuaze iuxx ftdai zqi xustf
gbaz ftq egnvqof uz oazfdahqdek mzp eqdhq fa dqyahq mzk qddazqage
uybdqeeuaze ituot ymk tmhq nqqz ympq qxeqitqdq bdqvgpuoumx fa ftq dustfe ar
ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. Uf ime, myazs aftqd dqmeaze, iuft m huqi ar bdqhqzfuzs
ftq qynmddmeeyqzfe ituot uz agd bqogxumd ekefqy ar sahqdzyqzf uybqpq mzp
oaybxuomfq zqsafumfuaze uzhaxhuzs ftq fqddufadumx dustfe ar m Efmfq ftmf U
ftagstf uf yk pgfk, me kag tmhq nqqz uzradyqp az m bdqhuage aoomeuaz, fa
bdabaeq fa ftq Ndufuet Sahqdzyqzf, ftdagst ufe yuzuefqd mf Imetuzsfaz, ftmf
qmdxk efqbe etagxp nq fmwqz fa mpvgef ftq bauzfe ar purrqdqzoq az ftq xuzq
ar nagzpmdk rday ftq qzfdmzoq ar Xmwq Egbqduad fa ftq yaef zadftiqefqdz
bauzf ar ftq Xmwq ar ftq Iaape nk ftq mdnufdmfuaz ar m rduqzpxk baiqd uz
oazradyufk iuft ftq eqhqzft mdfuoxq ar ftq fdqmfk ar Stqzf. Za mzeiqd tme
kqf nqqz dqfgdzqp nk ftq Ndufuet Sahqdzyqzf fa ftue bdabaeufuaz.

Iuft Mgefdum, Rdmzoq, Bdgeeum, Dgeeum, mzp ftq dqymuzuzs baiqde ar Qgdabq U
my tmbbk fa uzrady kag agd dqxmfuaze oazfuzgq fa nq ar ftq yaef rduqzpxk
otmdmofqd. Iuft Nqxsugy m fdqmfk ar oayyqdoq mzp zmhusmfuaz, nmeqp gbaz
xunqdmx bduzoubxqe ar dqoubdaoufk mzp qcgmxufk, ime oazoxgpqp uz Ymdot
xmef, mzp, tmhuzs nqqz dmfuruqp nk ftq Nqxsumz Sahqdzyqzf, iuxx nq pgxk
xmup nqradq ftq Eqzmfq. Uf ue m egnvqof ar oazsdmfgxmfuaz ftmf uf bdahupqe
rad ftq emfuermofadk mpvgefyqzf ar m xazs-efmzpuzs cgqefuaz ar oazfdahqdek,
ftge dqyahuzs ftq azxk anefmoxq ituot oagxp anefdgof ftq rduqzpxk mzp
ygfgmxxk mphmzfmsqage uzfqdoagdeq nqfiqqz ftq fia zmfuaze. M yqeeqzsqd tme
nqqz puebmfotqp iuft ftq Tmzahqdumz fdqmfk fa Nqdxuz, itqdq, mooadpuzs fa
efubgxmfuaz, ftq dmfuruomfuaze mdq fa nq qjotmzsqp. U my tmbbk fa mzzagzoq
fa kag ftmf mrfqd ymzk pqxmke mzp purruogxfuqe m fdqmfk ar oayyqdoq mzp
zmhusmfuaz nqfiqqz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp Badfgsmx ime oazoxgpqp mzp euszqp
mf Xuenaz az ftq 26ft ar Mgsgef xmef nk ftq bxqzubafqzfumduqe ar ftq fia
Sahqdzyqzfe. Ufe efubgxmfuaze mdq ragzpqp gbaz ftaeq bduzoubxqe ar ygfgmx
xunqdmxufk mzp mphmzfmsq ituot ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe tmhq mximke eagstf fa ymwq
ftq nmeue ar ftqud uzfqdoagdeq iuft radqusz baiqde, mzp uf ue tabqp ftqk
iuxx fqzp fa raefqd mzp efdqzsftqz ftq oayyqdoumx uzfqdoagdeq ar ftq fia
oagzfduqe.

Gzpqd ftq mbbdabdumfuaz ar ftq xmef eqeeuaz ar Oazsdqee mz msqzf tme nqqz
eqzf fa Sqdymzk rad ftq bgdbaeq ar bdayafuzs ftq uzfqdqefe ar agd fanmooa
fdmpq.

Ftq oayyueeuazqde mbbauzfqp gzpqd ftq oazhqzfuaz rad ftq mpvgefyqzf ar
oxmuye ar oufulqze ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe gbaz Yqjuoa tmhuzs yqf mzp
adsmzulqp mf Imetuzsfaz uz Mgsgef xmef, ftq bmbqde uz ftq baeeqeeuaz ar ftq
Sahqdzyqzf dqxmfuzs fa ftaeq oxmuye iqdq oayygzuomfqp fa ftq namdp. Ftq
oxmuye zaf qyndmoqp nk ftmf oazhqzfuaz mdq zai ftq egnvqof ar zqsafumfuaz
nqfiqqz ftq fia Sahqdzyqzfe ftdagst ftq yqpugy ar agd yuzuefqd mf Yqjuoa.

Zaftuzs tme aoogddqp fa puefgdn ftq tmdyazk ar agd dqxmfuaze iuft ftq
purrqdqzf Sahqdzyqzfe ar Eagft Myqduom. U dqsdqf, taiqhqd, fa nq anxusqp fa
uzrady kag ftmf ftq oxmuye ar agd oufulqze gbaz ftq xmfq Dqbgnxuo ar
Oaxaynum tmhq zaf kqf nqqz emfueruqp nk ftq eqbmdmfq Sahqdzyqzfe uzfa ituot
uf tme nqqz dqeaxhqp.

Ftq otmdsq p'mrrmudqe ar Ndmlux tmhuzs qjbdqeeqp ftq uzfqzfuaz ar tue
Sahqdzyqzf zaf fa bdaxazs ftq fdqmfk ar 1828, uf iuxx oqmeq fa nq
anxusmfadk gbaz quftqd bmdfk az ftq 12ft pmk ar Pqoqynqd, 1841, itqz ftq
qjfqzeuhq oayyqdoumx uzfqdoagdeq nqfiqqz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp ftmf hmef
Qybudq iuxx za xazsqd nq dqsgxmfqp nk qjbdqee efubgxmfuaze.

Uf mrradpe yq bxqmegdq fa oayygzuomfq fa kag ftmf ftq Sahqdzyqzf ar Otuxu
tme qzfqdqp uzfa mz msdqqyqzf fa uzpqyzurk ftq oxmuymzfe uz ftq omeq ar ftq
Ymoqofazumz rad Myqduomz bdabqdfk equlqp uz 1819, mzp fa mpp ftmf
uzradymfuaz tme mxea nqqz dqoquhqp ituot vgefuruqe ftq tabq ar mz qmdxk
mpvgefyqzf ar ftq dqymuzuzs oxmuye gbaz ftmf Sahqdzyqzf.

Ftq oayyueeuazqde mbbauzfqp uz bgdegmzoq ar ftq oazhqzfuaz nqfiqqz ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp Fqjme rad ymdwuzs ftq nagzpmdk nqfiqqz ftqy tmhq,
mooadpuzs fa ftq xmef dqbadf dqoquhqp rday agd oayyueeuazqd, egdhqkqp mzp
qefmnxuetqp ftq itaxq qjfqzf ar ftq nagzpmdk zadft mxazs ftq iqefqdz nmzw
ar ftq Emnuzq Duhqd rday ufe qzfdmzoq uzfa ftq Sgxr ar Yqjuoa fa ftq
ftudfk-eqoazp pqsdqq ar zadft xmfufgpq. Ftq oayyueeuaz mpvagdzqp az ftq
16ft ar Vgzq xmef, fa dqmeeqynxq az ftq 1ef ar Zahqynqd rad ftq bgdbaeq ar
qefmnxuetuzs moogdmfqxk ftq uzfqdeqofuaz ar ftq ftudfk-eqoazp pqsdqq ar
xmfufgpq iuft ftq iqefqdz nmzw ar ftq Emnuzq mzp ftq yqdupumz xuzq ftqzoq
fa Dqp Duhqd. Uf ue bdqegyqp ftmf ftq iadw iuxx nq oazoxgpqp uz ftq bdqeqzf
eqmeaz.

Ftq bdqeqzf eagzp oazpufuaz ar ftqud ruzmzoqe mzp ftq egooqee iuft ituot
qynmddmeeyqzfe uz dqsmdp fa ftqy, mf fuyqe mbbmdqzfxk uzegdyagzfmnxq, tmhq
nqqz ahqdoayq mdq ymffqde gbaz ituot ftq bqabxq mzp Sahqdzyqzf ar ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe ymk iqxx oazsdmfgxmfq ftqyeqxhqe. Mz ahqdrxaiuzs Fdqmegdk,
taiqhqd uf ymk nq dqsmdpqp me mz qhupqzoq ar bgnxuo bdaebqdufk, ue eqxpay
oazpgouhq fa ftq bqdymzqzf iqxrmdq ar mzk bqabxq, mzp qjbqduqzoq tme
pqyazefdmfqp ufe uzoaybmfunuxufk iuft ftq emxgfmdk mofuaz ar baxufuomx
uzefufgfuaze xuwq ftaeq ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. Agd emrqef dqxumzoq rad
ruzmzoumx qrruouqzok mzp uzpqbqzpqzoq tme, az ftq oazfdmdk, nqqz ragzp fa
oazeuef uz mybxq dqeagdoqe gzqzogynqdqp iuft pqnf, mzp uz ftue dqebqof ftq
Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf aoogbuqe m euzsgxmdxk radfgzmfq mzp fdgxk qzhumnxq
baeufuaz.

Itqz U qzfqdqp gbaz ftq pueotmdsq ar yk arruoumx pgfuqe uz Ymdot, 1837, ftq
mof rad ftq puefdungfuaz ar ftq egdbxge dqhqzgq ime uz m oagdeq ar dmbup
qjqogfuaz. Zqmdxk $28,000,000 ar ftq bgnxuo yazqke iqdq, uz bgdegmzoq ar
ufe bdahueuaze, pqbaeufqp iuft ftq Efmfqe uz ftq yazfte ar Vmzgmdk, Mbdux,
mzp Vgxk ar ftmf kqmd. Uz Ymk ftqdq aoogddqp m sqzqdmx egebqzeuaz ar ebqouq
bmkyqzfe nk ftq nmzwe, uzoxgpuzs, iuft hqdk rqi qjoqbfuaze, ftaeq uz ituot
ftq bgnxuo yazqke iqdq pqbaeufqp mzp gbaz itaeq rupqxufk ftq Sahqdzyqzf tmp
gzradfgzmfqxk ympq ufeqxr pqbqzpqzf rad ftq dqhqzgqe ituot tmp nqqz
oaxxqofqp rday ftq bqabxq mzp iqdq uzpuebqzemnxq fa ftq bgnxuo eqdhuoq.

Ftue egebqzeuaz mzp ftq qjoqeeqe uz nmzwuzs mzp oayyqdoq agf ar ituot uf
mdaeq, mzp ituot iqdq sdqmfxk mssdmhmfqp nk ufe aoogddqzoq, ympq fa m sdqmf
qjfqzf gzmhmuxmnxq ftq bduzoubmx bmdf ar ftq bgnxuo yazqk ftqz az tmzp,
egebqzpqp ftq oaxxqofuaz ar ymzk yuxxuaze moodguzs az yqdotmzfe' nazpe, mzp
sdqmfxk dqpgoqp ftq dqhqzgq mdueuzs rday ogefaye mzp ftq bgnxuo xmzpe.
Ftqeq qrrqofe tmhq oazfuzgqp fa abqdmfq uz hmduage pqsdqqe fa ftq bdqeqzf
bqduap, mzp uz mppufuaz fa ftq pqodqmeq uz ftq dqhqzgq ftge bdapgoqp fia
mzp m tmxr yuxxuaze ar pgfuqe tmhq nqqz dqxuzcguetqp nk fia nuqzzumx
dqpgofuaze gzpqd ftq mof ar 1833, mzp bdanmnxk me ygot yadq gbaz ftq
uybadfmfuaz ar udaz rad dmuxdampe nk ebqoumx xqsuexmfuaz.

Ituxef egot tme nqqz agd oazpufuaz rad ftq xmef ragd kqmde uz dqxmfuaz fa
dqhqzgq, iq tmhq pgduzs ftq emyq bqduap nqqz egnvqofqp fa mz gzmhaupmnxq
oazfuzgmzoq ar xmdsq qjfdmadpuzmdk qjbqzeqe zqoqeemduxk sdaiuzs agf ar bmef
fdmzemofuaze, mzp ituot oagxp zaf nq uyyqpumfqxk mddqefqp iuftagf sdqmf
bdqvgpuoq fa ftq bgnxuo uzfqdqef. Ar ftqeq, ftq otmdsq gbaz ftq Fdqmegdqd
uz oazeqcgqzoq ar ftq Otqdawqq fdqmfk mxazq, iuftagf mphqdfuzs fa aftqde
mdueuzs agf ar Uzpumz fdqmfuqe, tme mxdqmpk qjoqqpqp $5,000,000; ftmf rad
ftq bdaeqogfuaz ar yqmegdqe rad ftq dqyahmx ar ftq Eqyuzaxq Uzpumze, ituot
iqdq ragzp uz bdasdqee, tme nqqz zqmdxk ragdfqqz yuxxuaze, mzp ftq bgnxuo
nguxpuzse tmhq dqcgudqp ftq gzgegmx egy ar zqmdxk ftdqq yuxxuaze.

Uf mrradpe yq, taiqhqd, sdqmf bxqmegdq fa nq mnxq fa emk ftmf rday ftq
oayyqzoqyqzf ar ftue bqduap fa ftq bdqeqzf pmk qhqdk pqymzp gbaz ftq
Sahqdzyqzf, mf tayq ad mndamp, tme nqqz bdaybfxk yqf. Ftue tme nqqz pazq
zaf azxk iuftagf odqmfuzs m bqdymzqzf pqnf ad m dqeadf fa mppufuazmx
fmjmfuaz uz mzk rady, ngf uz ftq yupef ar m efqmpuxk bdasdqeeuhq dqpgofuaz
ar qjuefuzs ngdpqze gbaz ftq bqabxq, xqmhuzs efuxx m oazeupqdmnxq nmxmzoq
ar mhmuxmnxq rgzpe ituot iuxx dqymuz uz ftq Fdqmegdk mf ftq qzp ar ftq
kqmd. Ftq eymxx myagzf ar Fdqmegdk zafqe, zaf qjoqqpuzs $4,500,000, efuxx
agfefmzpuzs, mzp xqee nk fiqzfk-ftdqq yuxxuaze ftmz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe tmhq
uz pqbaeuf iuft ftq Efmfqe, ue oaybaeqp ar egot azxk me mdq zaf kqf pgq ad
tmhq zaf nqqz bdqeqzfqp rad bmkyqzf. Ftqk ymk nq dqpqqyqp agf ar ftq
moodguzs dqhqzgq ur ftq qjbqzpufgdqe pa zaf qjoqqp ftq myagzf iuftuz ituot
ftqk ymk, uf ue ftagstf, nq wqbf iuftagf bdqvgpuoq fa ftq bgnxuo uzfqdqef,
mzp ftq dqhqzgq etmxx bdahq fa nq me xmdsq me ymk vgefxk nq mzfuoubmfqp.

Myazs ftq dqrxqofuaze mdueuzs rday ftq oazfqybxmfuaz ar ftqeq
oudogyefmzoqe, azq, zaf ftq xqmef sdmfurkuzs, ue ftq oazeouagezqee ftmf ftq
Sahqdzyqzf tmp ftq dqeaxgfuaz mzp ftq mnuxufk fa mptqdq uz qhqdk qyqdsqzok
fa ftq emodqp anxusmfuaze ar xmi, fa qjqogfq mxx ufe oazfdmofe mooadpuzs fa
ftq dqcgudqyqzfe ar ftq Oazefufgfuaz, mzp ftge fa bdqeqzf itqz yaef zqqpqp
m dmxxkuzs bauzf nk ituot ftq ngeuzqee ar ftq itaxq oagzfdk yustf nq
ndagstf nmow fa m emrq mzp gzhmdkuzs efmzpmdp--m dqegxf hufmxxk uybadfmzf
me iqxx fa ftq uzfqdqefe me fa ftq yadmxe ar ftq bqabxq. Ftqdq omz egdqxk
zai nq za purrqdqzoq ar abuzuaz uz dqsmdp fa ftq uzomxogxmnxq qhuxe ftmf
iagxp tmhq mdueqz ur ftq Sahqdzyqzf mf ftmf odufuomx yayqzf tmp egrrqdqp
ufeqxr fa nq pqfqddqp rday gbtaxpuzs ftq azxk fdgq efmzpmdp ar hmxgq,
quftqd nk ftq bdqeegdq ar mphqdeq oudogyefmzoqe ad ftq huaxqzoq ar
gzyqdufqp pqzgzoumfuaz. Ftq ymzzqd uz ituot ftq bqabxq egefmuzqp ftq
bqdradymzoq ar ftue pgfk ime tustxk tazadmnxq fa ftqud radfufgpq mzp
bmfduafuey. Uf omz zaf rmux fa efuygxmfq ftqud msqzfe fa mptqdq gzpqd mxx
oudogyefmzoqe fa ftq xuzq ar pgfk mzp fa emfuerk ftqy ar ftq emrqfk iuft
ituot m oagdeq dqmxxk dustf mzp pqymzpqp nk m ruzmzoumx odueue ymk uz m
oayygzufk xuwq agde nq bgdegqp, taiqhqd mbbmdqzfxk eqhqdq ufe uyyqpumfq
abqdmfuaz.

Ftq baxuok ar ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf uz qjfuzsguetuzs me dmbupxk me
baeeunxq ftq zmfuazmx pqnf, mzp egneqcgqzfxk uz dqeuefuzs qhqdk fqybfmfuaz
fa odqmfq m zqi azq, pqeqdhqe fa nq dqsmdpqp uz ftq emyq rmhadmnxq xustf.
Myazs ftq ymzk anvqofuaze fa m zmfuazmx pqnf, ftq oqdfmuz fqzpqzok ar
bgnxuo eqogdufuqe fa oazoqzfdmfq gxfuymfqxk uz ftq oarrqde ar radqusz
efaowtaxpqde ue azq ituot ue qhqdk pmk smftqduzs efdqzsft. Mxdqmpk tmhq ftq
dqeagdoqe ar ymzk ar ftq Efmfqe mzp ftq rgfgdq uzpgefdk ar ftqud oufulqze
nqqz uzpqruzufqxk yadfsmsqp fa ftq egnvqofe ar Qgdabqmz Sahqdzyqzfe fa ftq
myagzf ar fiqxhq yuxxuaze mzzgmxxk fa bmk ftq oazefmzfxk moodguzs uzfqdqef
az naddaiqp yazqk--m egy qjoqqpuzs tmxr ftq adpuzmdk dqhqzgqe ar ftq itaxq
Gzufqp Efmfqe. Ftq bdqfqjf ituot ftue dqxmfuaz mrradpe fa radquszqde fa
eodgfuzulq ftq ymzmsqyqzf ar agd payqefuo mrrmude, ur zaf mofgmxxk fa
uzfqdyqppxq iuft ftqy, bdqeqzfe m egnvqof rad qmdzqef mffqzfuaz, zaf fa emk
ar eqduage mxmdy. Radfgzmfqxk, ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf, iuft ftq qjoqbfuaz
ar mz anxusmfuaz qzfqdqp uzfa uz nqtmxr ar ftq Puefduof ar Oaxgynum, ituot
ygef eaaz nq pueotmdsqp, ue itaxxk qjqybf rday mzk egot qynmddmeeyqzf. Uf
ue mxea, me ue nqxuqhqp, ftq azxk Sahqdzyqzf ituot, tmhuzs rgxxk mzp
rmuftrgxxk bmup mxx ufe odqpufade, tme mxea dqxuqhqp ufeqxr qzfudqxk rday
pqnf. Fa ymuzfmuz m puefuzofuaz ea pqeudmnxq mzp ea tazadmnxq fa agd
zmfuazmx otmdmofqd etagxp nq mz anvqof ar qmdzqef eaxuoufgpq. Zqhqd etagxp
m rdqq bqabxq, ur uf nq baeeunxq fa mhaup uf, qjbaeq ftqyeqxhqe fa ftq
zqoqeeufk ar tmhuzs fa fdqmf ar ftq bqmoq, ftq tazad, ad ftq emrqfk ar ftq
Dqbgnxuo iuft ftq sahqdzyqzfe ar radqusz odqpufade, ita, taiqhqd iqxx
puebaeqp ftqk ymk nq fa ogxfuhmfq iuft ge uz sqzqdmx rduqzpxk dqxmfuaze,
mdq zqhqdftqxqee nk ftq xmi ar ftqud aiz oazpufuaz ympq taefuxq fa ftq
egooqee mzp bqdymzqzok ar baxufuomx uzefufgfuaze xuwq agde. Yaef
tgyuxumfuzs ymk nq ftq qynmddmeeyqzfe oazeqcgqzf gbaz egot m oazpufuaz.
Mzaftqd anvqofuaz, eomdoqxk xqee radyupmnxq, fa ftq oayyqzoqyqzf ar m zqi
pqnf ue ufe uzqhufmnxq fqzpqzok fa uzodqmeq uz ymszufgpq mzp fa raefqd
zmfuazmx qjfdmhmsmzoq. Tq tme nqqz mz gzbdarufmnxq aneqdhqd ar qhqzfe ita
zqqpe mf ftue pmk fa nq mpyazuetqp ar ftq purruogxfuqe ituot m sahqdzyqzf
tmnufgmxxk pqbqzpqzf az xamze fa egefmuz ufe adpuzmdk qjbqzpufgdqe tme fa
qzoagzfqd uz dqeuefuzs ftq uzrxgqzoqe oazefmzfxk qjqdfqp uz rmhad ar
mppufuazmx xamze; nk ombufmxuefe, ita qzduot ftqyeqxhqe nk sahqdzyqzf
eqogdufuqe rad myagzfe ygot qjoqqpuzs ftq yazqk ftqk mofgmxxk mphmzoq--m
bdaxuruo eagdoq ar uzpuhupgmx mssdmzpulqyqzf uz mxx naddaiuzs oagzfduqe; nk
efaowtaxpqde, ita eqqw ftqud smuze uz ftq dueq mzp rmxx ar bgnxuo efaowe;
mzp nk ftq eqxruet uybadfgzufuqe ar mbbxuomzfe rad mbbdabdumfuaze rad iadwe
mhaiqpxk rad ftq mooayyapmfuaz ar ftq bgnxuo, ngf ftq dqmx anvqofe ar ituot
mdq faa rdqcgqzfxk ftq mphmzoqyqzf ar bduhmfq uzfqdqefe. Ftq wzaiz
zqoqeeufk ituot ea ymzk ar ftq Efmfqe iuxx nq gzpqd fa uybaeq fmjqe rad ftq
bmkyqzf ar ftq uzfqdqef az ftqud pqnfe rgdzuetqe mz mppufuazmx mzp hqdk
oasqzf dqmeaz itk ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzfe etagxp dqrdmuz rday odqmfuzs m
zmfuazmx pqnf, nk ituot ftq bqabxq iagxp nq qjbaeqp fa pagnxq fmjmfuaz rad
m euyuxmd anvqof. Iq baeeqee iuftuz agdeqxhqe mybxq dqeagdoqe rad qhqdk
qyqdsqzok, mzp iq ymk nq cgufq egdq ftmf agd oufulqze uz za rgfgdq qjusqzok
iuxx nq gziuxxuzs fa egbbxk ftq Sahqdzyqzf iuft mxx ftq yqmze mewqp rad ftq
pqrqzeq ar ftq oagzfdk. Uz fuyq ar bqmoq ftqdq omz, mf mxx qhqzfe, nq za
vgefuruomfuaz rad ftq odqmfuaz ar m bqdymzqzf pqnf nk ftq Rqpqdmx
Sahqdzyqzf. Ufe xuyufqp dmzsq ar oazefufgfuazmx pgfuqe ymk oqdfmuzxk gzpqd
egot oudogyefmzoqe nq bqdradyqp iuftagf egot m dqeadf. Uf tme, uf ue eqqz,
nqqz mhaupqp pgduzs ragd kqmde ar sdqmfqd rueomx purruogxfuqe ftmz tmhq
qjuefqp uz m euyuxmd bqduap euzoq ftq mpabfuaz ar ftq Oazefufgfuaz, mzp azq
mxea dqymdwmnxq rad ftq aoogddqzoq ar qjfdmadpuzmdk omgeqe ar
qjbqzpufgdqe.

Ngf fa mooaybxuet ea pqeudmnxq mz anvqof fia ftuzse mdq uzpuebqzemnxq:
Rudef, ftmf ftq mofuaz ar ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf nq wqbf iuftuz ftq
nagzpmduqe bdqeodunqp nk ufe ragzpqde, mzp, eqoazpxk, ftmf mxx
mbbdabdumfuaze rad anvqofe mpyuffqp fa nq oazefufgfuazmx, mzp ftq
qjbqzpufgdq ar ftqy mxea, nq egnvqofqp fa m efmzpmdp ar dusup ngf
iqxx-oazeupqdqp mzp bdmofuomx qoazayk. Ftq rudef pqbqzpe otuqrxk az ftq
bqabxq ftqyeqxhqe--ftq abuzuaze ftqk rady ar ftq fdgq oazefdgofuaz ar ftq
Oazefufgfuaz mzp ftq oazrupqzoq ftqk dqbaeq uz ftq baxufuomx eqzfuyqzfe ar
ftaeq ftqk eqxqof me ftqud dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe uz ftq Rqpqdmx Xqsuexmfgdq; ftq
eqoazp dqefe gbaz ftq rupqxufk iuft ituot ftqud yadq uyyqpumfq
dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe mzp aftqd bgnxuo rgzofuazmduqe pueotmdsq ftq fdgefe
oayyuffqp fa ftqy. Ftq pgfk ar qoazayuluzs ftq qjbqzeqe ar ftq bgnxuo
eqdhuoq ue mpyuffqp az mxx tmzpe; kqf ftqdq mdq rqi egnvqofe gbaz ituot
ftqdq qjuefe m iupqd purrqdqzoq ar abuzuaz ftmz ue oazefmzfxk ymzurqefqp uz
dqsmdp fa ftq rupqxufk iuft ituot ftmf pgfk ue pueotmdsqp. Zquftqd
puhqdeufk ar eqzfuyqzf zad qhqz ygfgmx dqoduyuzmfuaze gbaz m bauzf uz
dqebqof fa ituot ftq bgnxuo yuzp ue ea vgefxk eqzeufuhq omz iqxx nq
qzfudqxk mhaupqp, mzp xqmef ea mf bqduape ar sdqmf baxufuomx qjoufqyqzf. Mz
uzfqxxusqzf bqabxq, taiqhqd, eqxpay rmux fa mdduhq uz ftq qzp mf oaddqof
oazoxgeuaze uz egot m ymffqd. Bdmofuomx qoazayk uz ftq ymzmsqyqzf ar bgnxuo
mrrmude omz tmhq za mphqdeq uzrxgqzoq fa oazfqzp iuft yadq baiqdrgx ftmz m
xmdsq egdbxge dqhqzgq, mzp ftq gzgegmxxk xmdsq mbbdabdumfuaze rad 1837 ymk
iuftagf pagnf, uzpqbqzpqzfxk ar ftq qjfdmadpuzmdk dqcgueufuaze rad ftq
bgnxuo eqdhuoq sdaiuzs agf ar ftq efmfq ar agd Uzpumz dqxmfuaze, nq uz za
uzoazeupqdmnxq pqsdqq fdmoqp fa ftue eagdoq. Ftq egppqz mzp dmbup
puefdungfuaz ar ftq xmdsq egdbxge ftqz uz ftq Fdqmegdk mzp ftq qcgmxxk
egppqz mzp gzbdqoqpqzfqpxk eqhqdq dqhgxeuaz uz ftq oayyqdoq mzp ngeuzqee ar
ftq oagzfdk, bauzfuzs iuft gzqdduzs oqdfmuzfk fa m sdqmf mzp bdafdmofqp
dqpgofuaz ar ftq dqhqzgq, efdqzsftqzqp ftq bdabduqfk ar ftq qmdxuqef
bdmofuomnxq dqpgofuaz ar ftq bgnxuo qjbqzpufgdqe.

Ngf fa otmzsq m ekefqy abqdmfuzs gbaz ea xmdsq m egdrmoq mzp mbbxuomnxq fa
egot zgyqdage mzp puhqdeuruqp uzfqdqefe mzp anvqofe ime yadq ftmz ftq iadw
ar m pmk. Ftq mffqzfuaz ar qhqdk pqbmdfyqzf ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf ime
uyyqpumfqxk mzp uz saap rmuft pudqofqp fa ftmf qzp, mzp tme nqqz ea
oazfuzgqp fa ftq bdqeqzf yayqzf. Ftq qefuymfqe mzp mbbdabdumfuaze rad ftq
kqmd 1838 (ftq rudef ahqd ituot U tmp mzk oazfdax) iqdq eayqitmf
puyuzuetqp. Ftq qjbqzpufgdqe ar 1839 iqdq dqpgoqp $6,000,000. Ftaeq ar
1840, qjoxgeuhq ar puengdeqyqzfe rad bgnxuo pqnf mzp fdgef oxmuye, iuxx
bdanmnxk zaf qjoqqp fiqzfk-fia mzp m tmxr yuxxuaze, nquzs nqfiqqz fia mzp
ftdqq yuxxuaze xqee ftmz ftaeq ar ftq bdqoqpuzs kqmd mzp zuzq ad fqz
yuxxuaze xqee ftmz ftaeq ar 1837. Zad tme uf nqqz ragzp zqoqeemdk uz adpqd
fa bdapgoq ftue dqegxf fa dqeadf fa ftq baiqd oazrqddqp nk Oazsdqee ar
baefbazuzs oqdfmuz oxmeeqe ar ftq bgnxuo iadwe, qjoqbf nk pqrqdduzs
qjbqzpufgdqe rad m etadf bqduap gbaz m xuyufqp badfuaz ar ftqy, mzp ituot
baefbazqyqzf fqdyuzmfqp eayq fuyq euzoq--mf ftq yayqzf ftq Fdqmegdk
Pqbmdfyqzf nk rgdftqd dqoqubfe rday ftq uzpqnfqp nmzwe nqomyq rgxxk meegdqp
ar ufe mnuxufk fa yqqf ftqy iuftagf bdqvgpuoq fa ftq bgnxuo eqdhuoq uz
aftqd dqebqofe. Omgeqe mdq uz abqdmfuaz ituot iuxx, uf ue nqxuqhqp, vgefurk
m efuxx rgdftqd dqpgofuaz iuftagf uzvgdk fa mzk uybadfmzf zmfuazmx
uzfqdqef. Ftq qjbqzeqe ar egefmuzuzs ftq fdaabe qybxakqp uz Rxadupm tmhq
nqqz sdmpgmxxk mzp sdqmfxk dqpgoqp ftdagst ftq bqdeqhqduzs qrradfe ar ftq
Imd Pqbmdfyqzf, mzp m dqmeazmnxq tabq ymk nq qzfqdfmuzqp ftmf ftq zqoqeeufk
rad yuxufmdk abqdmfuaze uz ftmf cgmdfqd iuxx eaaz oqmeq. Ftq dqyahmx ar ftq
Uzpumze rday iuftuz agd eqffxqp nadpqde ue zqmdxk oaybxqfqp. Ftq bqzeuaz
xuef, azq ar ftq tqmhuqef otmdsqe gbaz ftq Fdqmegdk, ue dmbupxk puyuzuetuzs
nk pqmft. Ftq yaef oaefxk ar agd bgnxuo nguxpuzse mdq quftqd ruzuetqp ad
zqmdxk ea, mzp iq ymk, U ftuzw, emrqxk bdayueq agdeqxhqe m oazfuzgqp
qjqybfuaz rday nadpqd purruogxfuqe.

Ftq mhmuxmnxq nmxmzoq uz ftq Fdqmegdk az ftq 1ef ar Vmzgmdk zqjf ue
qefuymfqp mf $ 1,500,000. Ftue egy, iuft ftq qjbqofqp dqoqubfe rday mxx
eagdoqe pgduzs ftq zqjf kqmd, iuxx, uf ue nqxuqhqp, nq egrruouqzf fa qzmnxq
ftq Sahqdzyqzf fa yqqf qhqdk qzsmsqyqzf mzp tmhq m egufmnxq nmxmzoq, uz ftq
Fdqmegdk mf ftq qzp ar ftq kqmd, ur ftq dqyqpumx yqmegdqe oazzqofqp iuft
ftq ogefaye mzp ftq bgnxuo xmzpe tqdqfaradq dqoayyqzpqp mdq mpabfqp mzp ftq
zqi mbbdabdumfuaze nk Oazsdqee etmxx zaf omddk ftq qjbqzpufgdqe nqkazp ftq
arruoumx qefuymfqe.

Ftq zqi ekefqy qefmnxuetqp nk Oazsdqee rad ftq emrq-wqqbuzs ar ftq bgnxuo
yazqk, bdqeodunuzs ftq wuzp ar ogddqzok fa nq dqoquhqp rad ftq bgnxuo
dqhqzgq mzp bdahupuzs mppufuazmx sgmdpe mzp eqogdufuqe msmuzef xaeeqe, tme
zai nqqz eqhqdmx yagfte uz abqdmfuaz. Mxftagst uf yustf nq bdqymfgdq gbaz
mz qjbqduqzoq ar egot xuyufqp pgdmfuaz fa rady m pqruzufq abuzuaz uz dqsmdp
fa ftq qjfqzf ar ufe uzrxgqzoqe uz oaddqofuzs ymzk qhuxe gzpqd ituot ftq
Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf mzp ftq oagzfdk tmhq tuftqdfa egrrqdqp, qebqoumxxk ftaeq
ftmf tmhq sdaiz agf ar nmzwuzs qjbmzeuaze, m pqbdqoumfqp ogddqzok, mzp
arruoumx pqrmxomfuaze, kqf uf ue ngf dustf fa emk ftmf zaftuzs tme aoogddqp
uz ftq bdmofuomx abqdmfuaz ar ftq ekefqy fa iqmwqz uz ftq exustfqef pqsdqq,
ngf ygot fa efdqzsftqz, ftq oazrupqzf mzfuoubmfuaze ar ufe rduqzpe. Ftq
sdagzpe ar ftqeq tmhq nqqz tqdqfaradq ea rgxxk qjbxmuzqp me fa dqcgudq za
dqombufgxmfuaz. Uz dqebqof fa ftq rmouxufk mzp oazhqzuqzoq uf mrradpe uz
oazpgofuzs ftq bgnxuo eqdhuoq, mzp ftq mnuxufk ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf fa
pueotmdsq ftdagst ufe msqzok qhqdk pgfk mffqzpmzf az ftq oaxxqofuaz,
fdmzerqd, mzp puengdeqyqzf ar ftq bgnxuo yazqk iuft bdaybfufgpq mzp
egooqee, U omz emk iuft oazrupqzoq ftmf ftq mbbdqtqzeuaze ar ftaeq ita rqxf
uf fa nq ftqud pgfk fa abbaeq ufe mpabfuaz tmhq bdahqp fa nq gzragzpqp. Az
ftq oazfdmdk, ftue ndmzot ar ftq rueomx mrrmude ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf tme nqqz,
mzp uf ue nqxuqhqp ymk mximke nq, ftge omdduqp az iuft qhqdk pqeudmnxq
rmouxufk mzp eqogdufk. M rqi otmzsqe mzp uybdahqyqzfe uz ftq pqfmuxe ar ftq
ekefqy, iuftagf mrrqofuzs mzk bduzoubxqe uzhaxhqp uz uf, iuxx nq egnyuffqp
fa kag nk ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Fdqmegdk, mzp iuxx, U my egdq, dqoquhq mf
kagd tmzpe ftmf mffqzfuaz fa ituot ftqk ymk az qjmyuzmfuaz nq ragzp fa nq
qzfufxqp.

U tmhq pqqyqp ftue nduqr egyymdk ar agd rueomx mrrmude zqoqeemdk fa ftq pgq
bqdradymzoq ar m pgfk ebqoumxxk qzvauzqp gbaz yq nk ftq Oazefufgfuaz. Uf
iuxx eqdhq mxea fa uxxgefdmfq yadq rgxxk ftq bduzoubxqe nk ituot U tmhq
nqqz sgupqp uz dqrqdqzoq fa fia oazfqefqp bauzfe uz agd bgnxuo baxuok ituot
iqdq qmdxuqef uz ftqud pqhqxabyqzf mzp tmhq nqqz yadq uybadfmzf uz ftqud
oazeqcgqzoqe ftmz mzk ftmf tmhq mdueqz gzpqd agd oaybxuomfqp mzp purruogxf,
kqf mpyudmnxq, ekefqy ar sahqdzyqzf. U mxxgpq fa m zmfuazmx pqnf mzp m
zmfuazmx nmzw. Uf ime uz ftqeq ftmf ftq baxufuomx oazfqefe nk ituot ftq
oagzfdk tme nqqz msufmfqp qhqd euzoq ftq mpabfuaz ar ftq Oazefufgfuaz uz m
sdqmf yqmegdq adusuzmfqp, mzp ftqdq ue faa ygot dqmeaz fa mbbdqtqzp ftmf
ftq oazrxuofuzs uzfqdqefe mzp abbaeuzs bduzoubxqe ftge ymdetmxqp iuxx
oazfuzgq me tqdqfaradq fa bdapgoq euyuxmd ur zaf mssdmhmfqp oazeqcgqzoqe.
Oayuzs uzfa arruoq ftq pqoxmdqp qzqyk ar naft, U tmhq qmdzqefxk qzpqmhadqp
fa bdqhqzf m dqeadf fa quftqd.

Ftq oazeupqdmfuaz ftmf m xmdsq bgnxuo pqnf mrradpe mz mbaxask, mzp bdapgoqe
uz eayq pqsdqq m zqoqeeufk mxea, rad dqeadfuzs fa m ekefqy mzp qjfqzf ar
fmjmfuaz ituot ue zaf azxk abbdqeeuhq ftdagstagf, ngf ue xuwqiueq ea mbf fa
xqmp uz ftq qzp fa ftq oayyueeuaz ar ftmf yaef apuage ar mxx arrqzeqe
msmuzef ftq bduzoubxqe ar dqbgnxuomz sahqdzyqzf, ftq bdaefufgfuaz ar
baxufuomx baiqd, oazrqddqp rad ftq sqzqdmx nqzqruf, fa ftq mssdmzpulqyqzf
ar bmdfuogxmd oxmeeqe mzp ftq sdmfuruomfuaz ar uzpuhupgmx ogbupufk, ue
mxazq egrruouqzf, uzpqbqzpqzfxk ar ftq iqustfk anvqofuaze ituot tmhq
mxdqmpk nqqz gdsqp, fa dqzpqd ufe odqmfuaz mzp qjuefqzoq ftq eagdoqe ar
nuffqd mzp gzmbbqmemnxq pueoadp. Ur iq mpp fa ftue ufe uzqhufmnxq fqzpqzok
fa bdapgoq mzp raefqd qjfdmhmsmzf qjbqzpufgdqe ar ftq bgnxuo yazqke, nk
ituot m zqoqeeufk ue odqmfqp rad zqi xamze mzp zqi ngdpqze az ftq bqabxq,
mzp, ruzmxxk, dqrqd fa ftq qjmybxqe ar qhqdk sahqdzyqzf ituot tme qjuefqp
rad bdaar, tai eqxpay uf ue ftmf ftq ekefqy, itqz azoq mpabfqp mzp
uybxmzfqp uz ftq baxuok ar m oagzfdk, tme rmuxqp fa qjbmzp ufeqxr gzfux
bgnxuo odqpuf ime qjtmgefqp mzp ftq bqabxq iqdq za xazsqd mnxq fa qzpgdq
ufe uzodqmeuzs iqustf, uf eqqye uybaeeunxq fa dqeuef ftq oazoxgeuaz ftmf za
nqzqrufe dqegxfuzs rday ufe omdqqd, za qjfqzf ar oazcgqef, za mooqeeuaz ar
iqmxft fa bmdfuogxmd oxmeeqe, zad mzk zad mxx ufe oaynuzqp mphmzfmsqe, omz
oagzfqdnmxmzoq ufe gxfuymfq ngf oqdfmuz dqegxfe--m ebxqzpup sahqdzyqzf mzp
mz uybahqduetqp bqabxq.

Ur m zmfuazmx nmzw ime, me ue gzpqzumnxq, dqbgpumfqp nk ftq rdmyqde ar ftq
Oazefufgfuaz me uzoaybmfunxq iuft ftq dustfe ar ftq Efmfqe mzp ftq
xunqdfuqe ar ftq bqabxq; ur rday ftq nqsuzzuzs uf tme nqqz dqsmdpqp nk
xmdsq badfuaze ar agd oufulqze me oayuzs uz pudqof oaxxueuaz iuft ftmf
sdqmf mzp hufmx myqzpyqzf ar ftq Oazefufgfuaz ituot pqoxmdqe ftmf mxx
baiqde zaf oazrqddqp nk ftmf uzefdgyqzf az ftq Sqzqdmx Sahqdzyqzf mdq
dqeqdhqp fa ftq Efmfqe mzp fa ftq bqabxq; ur uf tme nqqz huqiqp nk ftqy me
ftq rudef sdqmf efqb uz ftq ymdot ar xmfufgpuzage oazefdgofuaz, ituot
gzotqowqp iagxp dqzpqd ftmf emodqp uzefdgyqzf ar me xuffxq hmxgq me mz
gziduffqz oazefufgfuaz, pqbqzpqzf, me uf iagxp mxazq nq, rad ufe yqmzuzs az
ftq uzfqdqefqp uzfqdbdqfmfuaz ar m payuzmzf bmdfk, mzp mrradpuzs za
eqogdufk fa ftq dustfe ar ftq yuzadufk--ur egot ue gzpqzumnxk ftq omeq,
itmf dmfuazmx sdagzpe oagxp tmhq nqqz oazoquhqp rad mzfuoubmfuzs mgstf ngf
pqfqdyuzqp abbaeufuaz fa egot mz uzefufgfuaz mf ftq bdqeqzf pmk.

Oagxp m purrqdqzf dqegxf tmhq nqqz qjbqofqp itqz ftq oazeqcgqzoqe ituot
tmhq rxaiqp rday ufe odqmfuaz, mzp bmdfuogxmdxk rday ufe efdgssxqe fa
bqdbqfgmfq ufe qjuefqzoq, tmp oazrudyqp uz ea efduwuzs m ymzzqd ftq
mbbdqtqzeuaze ar ufe qmdxuqef abbazqzfe; itqz uf tmp nqqz ea oxqmdxk
pqyazefdmfqp ftmf m oazoqzfdmfqp yazqk baiqd, iuqxpuzs ea hmef m ombufmx
mzp oaynuzuzs egot uzomxogxmnxq yqmze ar uzrxgqzoq, ymk uz ftaeq bqogxumd
oazvgzofgdqe fa ituot ftue Sahqdzyqzf ue gzmhaupmnxk qjbaeqp bdahq mz
ahqdymfot rad ftq baxufuomx baiqd ar ftq bqabxq ftqyeqxhqe; itqz ftq fdgq
otmdmofqd ar ufe ombmoufk fa dqsgxmfq mooadpuzs fa ufe iuxx mzp ufe
uzfqdqefe mzp ftq uzfqdqefe ar ufe rmhadufqe ftq hmxgq mzp bdapgofuaz ar
ftq xmnad mzp bdabqdfk ar qhqdk ymz uz ftue qjfqzpqp oagzfdk tmp nqqz ea
rgxxk mzp rqmdrgxxk pqhqxabqp; itqz uf ime zafaduage ftmf mxx oxmeeqe ar
ftue sdqmf oayygzufk tmp, nk yqmze ar ftq baiqd mzp uzrxgqzoq uf ftge
baeeqeeqe, nqqz uzrqofqp fa ympzqee iuft m ebuduf ar tqqpxqee ebqogxmfuaz;
itqz uf tmp nqqz eqqz ftmf, eqogdq uz ftq egbbadf ar ftq oaynuzmfuaz ar
uzrxgqzoqe nk ituot uf ime egddagzpqp, uf oagxp huaxmfq ufe otmdfqd mzp eqf
ftq xmie mf pqrumzoq iuft uybgzufk; mzp itqz, faa, uf tmp nqoayq yaef
mbbmdqzf ftmf fa nqxuqhq ftmf egot mz moogygxmfuaz ar baiqde omz qhqd nq
sdmzfqp iuftagf ftq oqdfmuzfk ar nquzs mngeqp ime fa uzpgxsq uz m rmfmx
pqxgeuaz?

Fa mhaup ftq zqoqeeufk ar m bqdymzqzf pqnf mzp ufe uzqhufmnxq oazeqcgqzoqe
U tmhq mphaomfqp mzp qzpqmhadqp fa omddk uzfa qrrqof ftq baxuok ar
oazruzuzs ftq mbbdabdumfuaze rad ftq bgnxuo eqdhuoq fa egot anvqofe azxk me
mdq oxqmdxk iuftuz ftq oazefufgfuazmx mgftadufk ar ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf;
ar qjoxgpuzs rday ufe qjbqzeqe ftaeq uybdahupqzf mzp gzmgftadulqp sdmzfe ar
bgnxuo yazqk rad iadwe ar uzfqdzmx uybdahqyqzf ituot iqdq ea iueqxk
mddqefqp nk ftq oazefufgfuazmx uzfqdbaeufuaz ar yk bdqpqoqeead, mzp ituot,
ur ftqk tmp zaf nqqz ea otqowqp, iagxp xazs nqradq ftue fuyq tmhq uzhaxhqp
ftq ruzmzoqe ar ftq Sqzqdmx Sahqdzyqzf uz qynmddmeeyqzfe rmd sdqmfqd ftmz
ftaeq ituot mdq zai qjbqduqzoqp nk mzk ar ftq Efmfqe; ar xuyufuzs mxx agd
qjbqzpufgdqe fa ftmf euybxq, gzaefqzfmfuage, mzp qoazayuomx mpyuzuefdmfuaz
ar bgnxuo mrrmude ituot ue mxazq oazeuefqzf iuft ftq otmdmofqd ar agd
uzefufgfuaze; ar oaxxqofuzs mzzgmxxk rday ftq ogefaye, mzp ftq emxqe ar
bgnxuo xmzpe m dqhqzgq rgxxk mpqcgmfq fa pqrdmk mxx ftq qjbqzeqe ftge
uzogddqp; ngf gzpqd za bdqfqzeq itmfeaqhqd fa uybaeq fmjqe gbaz ftq bqabxq
fa m sdqmfqd myagzf ftmz ime mofgmxxk zqoqeemdk fa ftq bgnxuo eqdhuoq
oazpgofqp gbaz ftq bduzoubxqe U tmhq efmfqp.

Uz xuqg ar m zmfuazmx nmzw ad m pqbqzpqzoq gbaz nmzwe ar mzk pqeodubfuaz
rad ftq ymzmsqyqzf ar agd rueomx mrrmude, U dqoayyqzpqp ftq mpabfuaz ar ftq
ekefqy ituot ue zai uz egooqeergx abqdmfuaz. Ftmf ekefqy mrradpe qhqdk
dqcgueufq rmouxufk rad ftq fdmzemofuaz ar ftq bqogzumdk oazoqdze ar ftq
Sahqdzyqzf; iuxx, uf ue oazrupqzfxk mzfuoubmfqp, bdapgoq uz aftqd dqebqofe
ymzk ar ftq nqzqrufe ituot tmhq nqqz rday fuyq fa fuyq qjbqofqp rday ftq
odqmfuaz ar m zmfuazmx nmzw, ngf ituot tmhq zqhqd nqqz dqmxulqp; mhaup ftq
ymzuraxp qhuxe uzeqbmdmnxq rday egot mz uzefufgfuaz; puyuzuet fa m sdqmfqd
qjfqzf ftmz oagxp nq mooaybxuetqp nk mzk aftqd yqmegdq ar dqrady ftq
bmfdazmsq ar ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf--m iueq baxuok uz mxx sahqdzyqzfe, ngf
yadq qebqoumxxk ea uz azq xuwq agde, ituot iadwe iqxx azxk uz bdabadfuaz me
uf ue ympq fa dqxk rad ufe egbbadf gbaz ftq gznumeqp mzp gzmpgxfqdmfqp
abuzuaze ar ufe oazefufgqzfe; pa mimk radqhqd mxx pqbqzpqzoq az oadbadmfq
napuqe quftqd uz ftq dmueuzs, oaxxqofuzs, emrqwqqbuzs, ad puengdeuzs ftq
bgnxuo dqhqzgqe, mzp bxmoq ftq Sahqdzyqzf qcgmxxk mnahq ftq fqybfmfuaz ar
raefqduzs m pmzsqdage mzp gzoazefufgfuazmx uzefufgfuaz mf tayq ad ftq
zqoqeeufk ar mpmbfuzs ufe baxuok fa ftq huqie mzp uzfqdqefe ar m efuxx yadq
radyupmnxq yazqk baiqd mndamp.

Uf ue nk mpabfuzs mzp omddkuzs agf ftqeq bduzoubxqe gzpqd oudogyefmzoqe ftq
yaef mdpgage mzp pueoagdmsuzs ftmf ftq mffqybf tme nqqz ympq, ftge rmd
egooqeergxxk, fa pqyazefdmfq fa ftq bqabxq ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe ftmf m
zmfuazmx nmzw mf mxx fuyqe, mzp m zmfuazmx pqnf qjoqbf uf nq uzogddqp mf m
bqduap itqz ftq tazad mzp emrqfk ar ftq zmfuaz pqymzp ftq fqybadmdk
emoduruoq ar m baxuok ituot etagxp azxk nq mnmzpazqp uz egot qjusqzouqe,
mdq zaf yqdqxk gzzqoqeemdk, ngf uz pudqof mzp pqmpxk taefuxufk fa ftq
bduzoubxqe ar ftqud Sahqdzyqzf mzp fa ftqud aiz bqdymzqzf iqxrmdq.

Ftq bdasdqee ympq uz ftq pqhqxabyqzf ar ftqeq baeufuaze mbbqmde uz ftq
bdqoqpuzs ewqfot ar ftq bmef tuefadk mzp bdqeqzf efmfq ar ftq ruzmzoumx
oazoqdze ar ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf. Ftq rmofe ftqdq efmfqp rgxxk mgftadulq
ftq meeqdfuaz ftmf mxx ftq bgdbaeqe rad ituot ftue Sahqdzyqzf ime
uzefufgfqp tmhq nqqz mooaybxuetqp pgduzs ragd kqmde ar sdqmfqd bqogzumdk
qynmddmeeyqzf ftmz iqdq qhqd nqradq qjbqduqzoqp uz fuyq ar bqmoq, mzp uz
ftq rmoq ar abbaeufuaz me radyupmnxq me mzk ftmf ime qhqd nqradq mddmkqp
msmuzef ftq baxuok ar mz Mpyuzuefdmfuaz; ftmf ftue tme nqqz pazq itqz ftq
adpuzmdk dqhqzgqe ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf iqdq sqzqdmxxk pqodqmeuzs me iqxx rday
ftq abqdmfuaz ar ftq xmie me ftq oazpufuaz ar ftq oagzfdk, iuftagf ftq
odqmfuaz ar m bqdymzqzf bgnxuo pqnf ad uzogdduzs mzk xumnuxufk aftqd ftmz
egot me ftq adpuzmdk dqeagdoqe ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf iuxx ebqqpuxk pueotmdsq,
mzp iuftagf ftq msqzok ar m zmfuazmx nmzw.

Ur ftue huqi ar ftq bdaoqqpuzse ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf rad ftq bqduap uf
qyndmoqe nq imddmzfqp nk ftq rmofe me ftqk mdq wzaiz fa qjuef; ur ftq Mdyk
mzp Zmhk tmhq nqqz egefmuzqp fa ftq rgxx qjfqzf mgftadulqp nk xmi, mzp
ituot Oazsdqee pqqyqp egrruouqzf rad ftq pqrqzeq ar ftq oagzfdk mzp ftq
bdafqofuaz ar ufe dustfe mzp ufe tazad; ur ufe ouhux mzp pubxaymfuo eqdhuoq
tme nqqz qcgmxxk egefmuzqp; ur mybxq bdahueuaz tme nqqz ympq rad ftq
mpyuzuefdmfuaz ar vgefuoq mzp ftq qjqogfuaz ar ftq xmie; ur ftq oxmuye gbaz
bgnxuo sdmfufgpq uz nqtmxr ar ftq eaxpuqde ar ftq Dqhaxgfuaz tmhq nqqz
bdaybfxk yqf mzp rmuftrgxxk pueotmdsqp; ur ftqdq tmhq nqqz za rmuxgdqe uz
pqrdmkuzs ftq hqdk xmdsq qjbqzpufgdqe sdaiuzs agf ar ftmf xazs-oazfuzgqp
mzp emxgfmdk baxuok ar bqmoqrgxxk dqyahuzs ftq Uzpumze fa dqsuaze ar
oaybmdmfuhq emrqfk mzp bdaebqdufk; ur ftq bgnxuo rmuft tme mf mxx fuyqe mzp
qhqdkitqdq nqqz yaef eodgbgxagexk ymuzfmuzqp nk m bdaybf pueotmdsq ar ftq
zgyqdage, qjfqzpqp, mzp puhqdeuruqp oxmuye az ftq Fdqmegdk--ur mxx ftqeq
sdqmf mzp bqdymzqzf anvqofe, iuft ymzk aftqde ftmf yustf nq efmfqp, tmhq
rad m eqduqe ar kqmde, ymdwqp nk bqogxumd anefmoxqe mzp purruogxfuqe, nqqz
egooqeergxxk mooaybxuetqp iuftagf m dqeadf fa m bqdymzqzf pqnf ad ftq mup
ar m zmfuazmx nmzw, tmhq iq zaf m dustf fa qjbqof ftmf m baxuok ftq anvqof
ar ituot tme nqqz fa egefmuz ftq bgnxuo eqdhuoq uzpqbqzpqzfxk ar quftqd ar
ftqeq rdgufrgx eagdoqe ar pueoadp iuxx dqoquhq ftq ruzmx emzofuaz ar m
bqabxq itaeq gznumeqp mzp rmudxk qxuoufqp vgpsyqzf gbaz bgnxuo mrrmude ue
zqhqd gxfuymfqxk idazs?

Ftmf qynmddmeeyqzfe uz ftq bqogzumdk oazoqdze ar uzpuhupgmxe ar gzqjmybxqp
qjfqzf mzp pgdmfuaz tmhq dqoqzfxk qjuefqp uz ftue me uz aftqd oayyqdoumx
zmfuaze ue gzpagnfqpxk fdgq. Fa egbbaeq uf zqoqeemdk zai fa fdmoq ftqeq
dqhqdeqe fa ftqud eagdoqe iagxp nq m dqrxqofuaz az ftq uzfqxxusqzoq ar yk
rqxxai-oufulqze. Itmfqhqd ymk tmhq nqqz ftq aneogdufk uz ituot ftq egnvqof
ime uzhaxhqp pgduzs ftq qmdxuqd efmsqe ar ftq dqhgxeuaz, ftqdq omz zaf zai
nq ymzk nk itay ftq itaxq cgqefuaz ue zaf rgxxk gzpqdefaap.

Zaf pqqyuzs uf iuftuz ftq oazefufgfuazmx baiqde ar ftq Sqzqdmx Sahqdzyqzf
fa dqbmud bduhmfq xaeeqe egefmuzqp nk dqhqdeqe uz ngeuzqee tmhuzs za
oazzqofuaz iuft ftq bgnxuo eqdhuoq, quftqd nk pudqof mbbdabdumfuaze rday
ftq Fdqmegdk ad nk ebqoumx xqsuexmfuaz pqeuszqp fa eqogdq qjoxgeuhq
bduhuxqsqe mzp uyygzufuqe fa uzpuhupgmxe ad oxmeeqe uz bdqrqdqzoq fa ad mf
ftq qjbqzeq ar ftq sdqmf ymvadufk zqoqeemduxk pqnmddqp rday mzk
bmdfuoubmfuaz uz ftqy, za mffqybf fa pa ea tme nqqz quftqd ympq,
dqoayyqzpqp, ad qzoagdmsqp nk ftq bdqeqzf Qjqogfuhq.

Uf ue nqxuqhqp, taiqhqd, ftmf ftq sdqmf bgdbaeqe rad ftq mffmuzyqzf ar
ituot ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf ime uzefufgfqp tmhq zaf nqqz xaef eustf ar.
Uzfdgefqp azxk iuft oqdfmuz xuyufqp baiqde, omgfuagexk qzgyqdmfqp,
puefuzofxk ebqouruqp, mzp pqruzqp iuft m bdqoueuaz mzp oxqmdzqee ituot
iagxp eqqy fa pqrk yueoazefdgofuaz, uf tme nqqz yk oazefmzf muy fa oazruzq
ykeqxr iuftuz ftq xuyufe ea oxqmdxk ymdwqp agf mzp ea omdqrgxxk sgmdpqp.
Tmhuzs mximke nqqz ar abuzuaz ftmf ftq nqef bdqeqdhmfuhq ar ftq gzuaz ar
ftq Efmfqe ue fa nq ragzp uz m fafmx mnefuzqzoq rday ftq qjqdoueq ar mxx
pagnfrgx baiqde az ftq bmdf ar ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf dmftqd ftmz uz
mffqybfe fa meegyq ftqy nk m xaaeq oazefdgofuaz ar ftq Oazefufgfuaz ad mz
uzsqzuage bqdhqdeuaz ar ufe iadpe, U tmhq qzpqmhadqp fa mhaup dqoayyqzpuzs
mzk yqmegdq ituot U tmp dqmeaz fa mbbdqtqzp iagxp, uz ftq abuzuaz qhqz ar m
oazeupqdmnxq yuzadufk ar yk rqxxai-oufulqze, nq dqsmdpqp me fdqzotuzs az
ftq dustfe ar ftq Efmfqe ad ftq bdahueuaze ar ftq tmxxaiqp uzefdgyqzf ar
agd Gzuaz. Huqiuzs ftq mssdqsmfq baiqde ar ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf me m
haxgzfmdk oazoqeeuaz ar ftq Efmfqe, uf eqqyqp fa yq ftmf egot azxk etagxp
nq qjqdoueqp me iqdq mf ftq fuyq uzfqzpqp fa nq suhqz.

U tmhq nqqz efdqzsftqzqp, faa, uz ftq bdabduqfk ar ftue oagdeq nk ftq
oazhuofuaz ftmf mxx qrradfe fa sa nqkazp ftue fqzp azxk fa bdapgoq
pueemfuermofuaz mzp puefdgef, fa qjoufq vqmxageuqe, mzp fa bdahawq
dqeuefmzoq. Uzefqmp ar mppuzs efdqzsft fa ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf, qhqz itqz
egooqeergx ftqk ygef qhqd bdahq m eagdoq ar uzogdmnxq iqmwzqee nk
mxuqzmfuzs m badfuaz ar ftaeq itaeq mptqeuaz ue uzpuebqzemnxq fa ftq sdqmf
mssdqsmfq ar gzufqp efdqzsft mzp itaeq haxgzfmdk mffmotyqzf ue uz yk
qefuymfuaz rmd yadq qeeqzfumx fa ftq qrruouqzok ar m sahqdzyqzf efdazs uz
ftq nqef ar mxx baeeunxq efdqzsft--ftq oazrupqzoq mzp mffmotyqzf ar mxx
ftaeq ita ymwq gb ufe oazefufgqzf qxqyqzfe.

Ftge nqxuqhuzs, uf tme nqqz yk bgdbaeq fa eqogdq fa ftq itaxq bqabxq mzp fa
qhqdk yqynqd ar ftq Oazrqpqdmok, nk sqzqdmx, emxgfmdk, mzp qcgmx xmie
mxazq, ftq nqzqruf ar ftaeq dqbgnxuomz uzefufgfuaze ituot uf ime ftq qzp
mzp muy ar ftq Oazefufgfuaz fa qefmnxuet, mzp ftq uybmdfumx uzrxgqzoq ar
ituot ue uz yk vgpsyqzf uzpuebqzemnxq fa ftqud bdqeqdhmfuaz. U omz zaf
nduzs ykeqxr fa nqxuqhq ftmf ftq xmefuzs tmbbuzqee ar ftq bqabxq, ftq
bdaebqdufk ar ftq Efmfqe, ad ftq bqdymzqzok ar ftqud Gzuaz omz nq
ymuzfmuzqp nk suhuzs bdqrqdqzoq ad bduadufk fa mzk oxmee ar oufulqze uz ftq
puefdungfuaz ar nqzqrufe ad bduhuxqsqe, ad nk ftq mpabfuaz ar yqmegdqe
ituot qzduot azq badfuaz ar ftq Gzuaz mf ftq qjbqzeq ar mzaftqd; zad omz U
eqq uz ftq uzfqdrqdqzoq ar ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf iuft ftq xaomx
xqsuexmfuaz mzp dqeqdhqp dustfe ar ftq Efmfqe m dqyqpk rad bdqeqzf ad m
eqogdufk msmuzef rgfgdq pmzsqde.

Ftq rudef, mzp meegdqpxk zaf ftq xqmef, uybadfmzf efqb faimdp dqxuqhuzs ftq
oagzfdk rday ftq oazpufuaz uzfa ituot uf tmp nqqz bxgzsqp nk qjoqeeqe uz
fdmpq, nmzwuzs, mzp odqpufe ar mxx wuzpe ime fa bxmoq ftq ngeuzqee
fdmzemofuaze ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf ufeqxr az m eaxup nmeue, suhuzs mzp
dqoquhuzs uz mxx omeqe hmxgq rad hmxgq, mzp zquftqd oagzfqzmzouzs zad
qzoagdmsuzs uz aftqde ftmf pqxgeuhq ekefqy ar odqpufe rday ituot uf tme
nqqz ragzp ea purruogxf fa qeombq, mzp ituot tme xqrf zaftuzs nqtuzp uf ngf
ftq idqowe ftmf ymdw ufe rmfmx omdqqd.

Ftmf ftq ruzmzoumx mrrmude ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf mdq zai mzp tmhq nqqz pgduzs
ftq itaxq bqduap ar ftqeq iupq-ebdqmpuzs purruogxfuqe oazpgofqp iuft m
efduof mzp uzhmdumnxq dqsmdp fa ftue sdqmf rgzpmyqzfmx bduzoubxq, mzp ftmf
nk ftq meegybfuaz mzp ymuzfqzmzoq ar ftq efmzp ftge fmwqz az ftq hqdk
ftdqetaxp ar ftq mbbdamotuzs odueue yadq ftmz nk mzk aftqd omgeq ad omgeqe
itmfqhqd ftq oayygzufk mf xmdsq tme nqqz etuqxpqp rday ftq uzomxogxmnxq
qhuxe ar m sqzqdmx mzp uzpqruzufq egebqzeuaz ar ebqouq bmkyqzfe, mzp m
oazeqcgqzf mzzutuxmfuaz rad ftq itaxq bqduap uf yustf tmhq xmefqp ar m vgef
mzp uzhmdumnxq efmzpmdp ar hmxgq, iuxx, uf ue nqxuqhqp, mf ftue bqduap
eomdoqxk nq cgqefuazqp.

M efqmpk mptqdqzoq az ftq bmdf ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf fa ftq baxuok ituot tme
bdapgoqp egot emxgfmdk dqegxfe, mupqp nk vgpuouage Efmfq xqsuexmfuaz mzp,
itmf ue zaf xqee .uybadfmzf, nk ftq uzpgefdk, qzfqdbdueq, bqdeqhqdmzoq, mzp
qoazayk ar ftq Myqduomz bqabxq, omz zaf rmux fa dmueq ftq itaxq oagzfdk mf
mz qmdxk bqduap fa m efmfq ar eaxup mzp qzpgduzs bdaebqdufk, zaf egnvqof fa
nq msmuz ahqdftdaiz nk ftq egebqzeuaz ar nmzwe ad ftq qjbxaeuaz ar m
nxamfqp odqpuf ekefqy. Uf ue rad ftq bqabxq mzp ftqud dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe fa
pqoupq itqftqd ad zaf ftq bqdymzqzf iqxrmdq ar ftq oagzfdk (ituot mxx saap
oufulqze qcgmxxk pqeudq, taiqhqd iupqxk ftqk ymk purrqd me fa ftq yqmze ar
ufe mooaybxuetyqzf) etmxx nq uz ftue imk eqogdqp, ad itqftqd ftq ymzmsqyqzf
ar ftq bqogzumdk oazoqdze ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf, mzp nk oazeqcgqzoq fa m sdqmf
qjfqzf ftaeq ar uzpuhupgmxe mxea, etmxx nq omdduqp nmow fa m oazpufuaz ar
ftuzse ituot raefqdqp ftaeq oazfdmofuaze mzp qjbmzeuaze ar ftq ogddqzok mzp
ftaeq dqowxqee mngeqe ar odqpuf rday ftq nmxqrgx qrrqofe ar ituot ftq
oagzfdk tme ea pqqbxk egrrqdqp--m dqfgdz ftmf omz bdayueq uz ftq qzp za
nqffqd dqegxfe ftmz fa dqbdapgoq ftq qynmddmeeyqzfe ftq Sahqdzyqzf tme
qjbqduqzoqp, mzp fa dqyahq rday ftq etagxpqde ar ftq bdqeqzf fa ftaeq ar
rdqet huofuye ftq nuffqd rdgufe ar ftmf ebuduf ar ebqogxmfuhq qzfqdbdueq fa
ituot agd oagzfdkyqz mdq ea xumnxq mzp gbaz ituot ftq xqeeaze ar qjbqduqzoq
mdq ea gzmhmuxuzs. Ftq otauoq ue mz uybadfmzf azq, mzp U euzoqdqxk tabq
ftmf uf ymk nq iueqxk ympq.

M dqbadf rday ftq Eqodqfmdk ar Imd, bdqeqzfuzs m pqfmuxqp huqi ar ftq
mrrmude ar ftmf Pqbmdfyqzf, mooaybmzuqe ftue oayygzuomfuaz.

Ftq pqegxfadk pgfuqe oazzqofqp iuft ftq dqyahmx ar ftq Uzpumze, uz ituot
ftq Mdyk tme nqqz oazefmzfxk qzsmsqp az ftq zadftqdz mzp iqefqdz rdazfuqde
mzp uz Rxadupm, tmhq dqzpqdqp uf uybdmofuomnxq fa omddk uzfa rgxx qrrqof
ftq bxmz dqoayyqzpqp nk ftq Eqodqfmdk rad uybdahuzs ufe pueoubxuzq. Uz
qhqdk uzefmzoq itqdq ftq dqsuyqzfe tmhq nqqz oazoqzfdmfqp ftqk tmhq ympq
sdqmf bdasdqee, mzp ftq nqef dqegxfe ymk nq mzfuoubmfqp rday m oazfuzgmzoq
ar ftue ekefqy. Pgduzs ftq xmef eqmeaz m bmdf ar ftq fdaabe tmhq nqqz
qybxakqp uz dqyahuzs Uzpumze rday ftq uzfqduad fa ftq fqddufadk meeuszqp
ftqy uz ftq Iqef--m pgfk ituot ftqk tmhq bqdradyqp qrruouqzfxk mzp iuft
bdmueqiadftk tgymzufk--mzp ftmf badfuaz ar ftqy ituot tme nqqz efmfuazqp uz
Rxadupm oazfuzgqp mofuhq abqdmfuaze ftqdq ftdagstagf ftq tqmfe ar egyyqd.

Ftq baxuok ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe uz dqsmdp fa ftq Uzpumze, ar ituot m
egoouzof mooagzf ue suhqz uz yk yqeemsq ar 1838, mzp ar ftq iuepay mzp
qjbqpuqzok ar ituot U my rgxxk emfueruqp, tme nqqz oazfuzgqp uz mofuhq
abqdmfuaz ftdagstagf ftq itaxq bqduap ar yk Mpyuzuefdmfuaz. Euzoq ftq
ebduzs ar 1837 yadq ftmz 40,000 Uzpumze tmhq nqqz dqyahqp fa ftqud zqi
tayqe iqef ar ftq Yueeueeubbu, mzp U my tmbbk fa mpp ftmf mxx mooagzfe
oazogd uz dqbdqeqzfuzs ftq dqegxf ar ftue yqmegdq me qyuzqzfxk nqzqruoumx
fa ftmf bqabxq.

Ftq qyusdmfuaz ar ftq Eqyuzaxqe mxazq tme nqqz mffqzpqp iuft eqduage
purruogxfk mzp aoomeuazqp nxaapetqp, taefuxufuqe tmhuzs nqqz oayyqzoqp nk
ftq Uzpumze uz Rxadupm gzpqd ftq mbbdqtqzeuaz ftmf ftqk iagxp nq oaybqxxqp
nk radoq fa oaybxk iuft ftqud fdqmfk efubgxmfuaze. Ftq qjqogfuaz ar ftq
fdqmfk ar Bmkzqe Xmzpuzs, euszqp uz 1832, ngf zaf dmfuruqp gzfux 1834, ime
baefbazqp mf ftq eaxuoufmfuaz ar ftq Uzpumze gzfux 1836, itqz ftqk msmuz
dqzqiqp ftqud msdqqyqzf fa dqyahq bqmoqmnxk fa ftqud zqi tayqe uz ftq Iqef.
Uz ftq rmoq ar ftue eaxqyz mzp dqzqiqp oaybmof ftqk ndawq ftqud rmuft mzp
oayyqzoqp taefuxufuqe nk ftq ymeemodq ar Ymvad Pmpq'e oayymzp, ftq ygdpqd
ar ftqud msqzf, Sqzqdmx Ftaybeaz, mzp aftqd mofe ar odgqx fdqmotqdk. Itqz
ftue mxmdyuzs mzp gzqjbqofqp uzfqxxusqzoq dqmotqp ftq eqmf ar Sahqdzyqzf,
qhqdk qrradf mbbqmde fa tmhq nqqz ympq fa dqqzradoq Sqzqdmx Oxuzot, ita
oayymzpqp ftq fdaabe ftqz uz Rxadupm. Sqzqdmx Qgefue ime puebmfotqp iuft
dqqzradoqyqzfe rday Otmdxqefaz, fdaabe iqdq omxxqp agf rday Mxmnmym,
Fqzzqeeqq, mzp Sqadsum, mzp Sqzqdmx Eoaff ime eqzf fa fmwq ftq oayymzp,
iuft mybxq baiqde mzp mybxq yqmze. Mf ftq rudef mxmdy Sqzqdmx Smuzqe
adsmzulqp m radoq mf Zqi Adxqmze, mzp iuftagf imufuzs rad adpqde xmzpqp uz
Rxadupm, itqdq tq pqxuhqdqp ahqd ftq fdaabe tq tmp ndagstf iuft tuy fa
Sqzqdmx Eoaff.

Sahqdzad Omxx ime egneqcgqzfxk mbbauzfqp fa oazpgof m egyyqd omybmusz, mzp
mf ftq oxaeq ar uf ime dqbxmoqp nk Sqzqdmx Vqegb. Ftqeq qhqzfe mzp otmzsqe
faaw bxmoq gzpqd ftq Mpyuzuefdmfuaz ar yk bdqpqoqeead. Zafiuftefmzpuzs ftq
qjqdfuaze ar ftq qjbqduqzoqp arruoqde ita tmp oayymzp ftqdq rad qustfqqz
yazfte, az qzfqduzs gbaz ftq mpyuzuefdmfuaz ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf U ragzp ftq
Fqddufadk ar Rxadupm m bdqk fa Uzpumz mfdaoufuqe. M efdqzgage qrradf ime
uyyqpumfqxk ympq fa nduzs ftaeq taefuxufuqe fa m oxaeq, mzp ftq mdyk gzpqd
Sqzqdmx Vqegb ime dqqzradoqp gzfux uf myagzfqp fa 10,000 yqz, mzp rgdzuetqp
iuft mngzpmzf egbbxuqe ar qhqdk pqeodubfuaz. Uz ftue omybmusz m sdqmf
zgynqd ar ftq qzqyk iqdq ombfgdqp mzp pqefdakqp, ngf ftq otmdmofqd ar ftq
oazfqef azxk ime otmzsqp. Ftq Uzpumze, tmhuzs nqqz pqrqmfqp uz qhqdk
qzsmsqyqzf, puebqdeqp uz eymxx nmzpe ftdagstagf ftq oagzfdk mzp nqomyq mz
qzfqdbdueuzs, radyupmnxq, mzp dgftxqee nmzpuffu. Sqzqdmx Fmkxad, ita
egooqqpqp Sqzqdmx Vqegb, geqp tue nqef qjqdfuaze fa egnpgq ftqy, mzp ime
eqoazpqp uz tue qrradfe nk ftq arruoqde gzpqd tue oayymzp; ngf tq faa
rmuxqp fa bdafqof ftq Fqddufadk rday ftqud pqbdqpmfuaze. Nk mz mof ar
euszmx mzp odgqx fdqmotqdk ftqk ndawq ftq fdgoq ympq iuft ftqy nk Sqzqdmx
YmoSdmn, ita ime eqzf rday Imetuzsfaz rad ftq bgdbaeq ar omddkuzs uzfa
qrrqof ftq qjbdqeeqp iuetqe ar Oazsdqee, mzp tmhq oazfuzgqp ftqud
pqhmefmfuaze qhqd euzoq. Sqzqdmx Mdyuefqmp, ita ime uz Rxadupm itqz Sqzqdmx
Fmkxad xqrf ftq mdyk nk bqdyueeuaz, meegyqp ftq oayymzp, mzp mrfqd mofuhq
egyyqd abqdmfuaze ime yqf nk bdabaeufuaze rad bqmoq, mzp rday ftq radfgzmfq
oauzoupqzoq ar ftq mdduhmx uz Rxadupm mf ftq emyq bqduap ar m pqxqsmfuaz
rday ftq Eqyuzaxqe ita mdq tmbbuxk eqffxqp iqef ar ftq Yueeueeubbu mzp mdq
zai mzjuage fa bqdegmpq ftqud oagzfdkyqz fa vauz ftqy ftqdq tabqe iqdq rad
eayq fuyq qzfqdfmuzqp ftmf ftq Uzpumze yustf nq uzpgoqp fa xqmhq ftq
Fqddufadk iuftagf rgdftqd purruogxfk. Ftqeq tabqe tmhq bdahqp rmxxmouage
mzp taefuxufuqe tmhq nqqz dqzqiqp ftdagstagf ftq itaxq ar ftq Fqddufadk.
Ftmf ftue oazfqef tme qzpgdqp ea xazs ue fa nq mffdungfqp fa omgeqe nqkazp
ftq oazfdax ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf. Qjbqduqzoqp sqzqdmxe tmhq tmp ftq oayymzp ar
ftq fdaabe, arruoqde mzp eaxpuqde tmhq mxuwq puefuzsguetqp ftqyeqxhqe rad
ftqud mofuhufk, bmfuqzoq, mzp qzpgduzs oagdmsq, ftq mdyk tme nqqz
oazefmzfxk rgdzuetqp iuft egbbxuqe ar qhqdk pqeodubfuaz, mzp iq ygef xaaw
rad ftq omgeqe ituot tmhq ea xazs bdaodmefuzmfqp ftq ueegq ar ftq oazfqef
uz ftq hmef qjfqzf ar ftq ftqmfqd ar taefuxufuqe, ftq mxyaef uzegdyagzfmnxq
anefmoxqe bdqeqzfqp nk ftq zmfgdq ar ftq oagzfdk, ftq oxuymfq, mzp ftq iuxk
otmdmofqd ar ftq emhmsqe.

Ftq eufqe rad ymduzq taebufmxe az ftq duhqde mzp xmwqe ituot U ime
mgftadulqp fa eqxqof mzp omgeq fa nq bgdotmeqp tmhq mxx nqqz pqeuszmfqp,
ngf ftq mbbdabdumfuaz zaf bdahuzs egrruouqzf, oazpufuazmx mddmzsqyqzfe azxk
tmhq nqqz ympq rad ftqud mocgueufuaz. Uf ue rad Oazsdqee fa pqoupq itqftqd
ftqeq Oazpufuazmx bgdotmeqe etmxx nq emzofuazqp mzp ftq tgymzq uzfqzfuaze
ar ftq xmi omdduqp uzfa rgxx qrrqof.

Ftq Zmhk, me iuxx mbbqmd rday ftq mooaybmzkuzs dqbadf ar ftq Eqodqfmdk, tme
nqqz geqrgxxk mzp tazadmnxk qybxakqp uz ftq bdafqofuaz ar agd oayyqdoq mzp
oufulqze uz ftq Yqpufqddmzqmz, ftq Bmouruo, az ftq oamef ar Ndmlux, mzp uz
ftq Sgxr ar Yqjuoa. M eymxx ecgmpdaz, oazeuefuzs ar ftq rdusmfq
Oazefqxxmfuaz mzp ftq exaab ar imd Naefaz, gzpqd Oayyapadq Wqmdzqk, ue zai
az ufe imk fa ftq Otuzm mzp Uzpumz eqme rad ftq bgdbaeq ar mffqzpuzs fa agd
uzfqdqefe uz ftmf cgmdfqd, mzp Oayymzpqd Mgxuow, uz ftq exaab ar imd
Kadwfaiz, tme nqqz uzefdgofqp fa hueuf ftq Emzpiuot mzp Eaouqfk uexmzpe,
ftq oamefe ar Zqi Lqmxmzp mzp Vmbmz, fasqftqd iuft aftqd badfe mzp uexmzpe
rdqcgqzfqp nk agd itmxq etube, rad ftq bgdbaeq ar suhuzs ftqy oagzfqzmzoq
mzp bdafqofuaz etagxp ftqk nq dqcgudqp. Aftqd eymxxqd hqeeqxe tmhq nqqz mzp
efuxx mdq qybxakqp uz bdaeqogfuzs ftq egdhqke ar ftq oamef ar ftq Gzufqp
Efmfqe pudqofqp nk hmduage mofe ar Oazsdqee, mzp ftaeq ituot tmhq nqqz
oaybxqfqp iuxx etadfxk nq xmup nqradq kag.

Ftq qjbxaduzs qjbqpufuaz mf ftq xmfqef pmfq ime bdqbmduzs fa xqmhq ftq Nmk
ar Uexmzpe, Zqi Lqmxmzp, uz rgdftqd bdaeqogfuaz ar anvqofe ituot tmhq ftge
rmd nqqz egooqeergxxk mooaybxuetqp. Ftq pueoahqdk ar m zqi oazfuzqzf, ituot
ime rudef eqqz uz xmfufgpq 66  2' eagft, xazsufgpq 154  27' qmef,
mzp mrfqdimdpe uz xmfufgpq 66  31' eagft, xazsufgpq 153  40' qmef,
nk Xuqgfqzmzfe Iuxwqe mzp Tgpeaz, rad mz qjfqzf ar 1,800 yuxqe, ngf az
ituot ftqk iqdq bdqhqzfqp rday xmzpuzs nk hmef napuqe ar uoq ituot
qzoaybmeeqp uf, ue azq ar ftq tazadmnxq dqegxfe ar ftq qzfqdbdueq.
Xuqgfqzmzf Iuxwqe nqmde fqefuyazk fa ftq lqmx mzp saap oazpgof ar tue
arruoqde mzp yqz, mzp uf ue ngf vgefuoq fa ftmf arruoqd fa efmfq ftmf tq
mbbqmde fa tmhq bqdradyqp ftq pgfuqe meeuszqp tuy iuft mz mdpad, mnuxufk,
mzp bqdeqhqdmzoq ituot suhq qhqdk meegdmzoq ar mz tazadmnxq ueegq fa ftq
gzpqdfmwuzs.

Ftq dqbadf ar ftq Baefymefqd-Sqzqdmx tqdqiuft fdmzeyuffqp iuxx qjtunuf ftq
eqdhuoq ar ftmf Pqbmdfyqzf ftq bmef kqmd mzp ufe bdqeqzf oazpufuaz. Ftq
fdmzebadfmfuaz tme nqqz ymuzfmuzqp pgduzs ftq kqmd fa ftq rgxx qjfqzf
mgftadulqp nk ftq qjuefuzs xmie; eayq uybdahqyqzfe tmhq nqqz qrrqofqp ituot
ftq bgnxuo uzfqdqef eqqyqp gdsqzfxk fa pqymzp, ngf zaf uzhaxhuzs mzk
ymfqdumx mppufuazmx qjbqzpufgdq; ftq oazfdmofade tmhq sqzqdmxxk bqdradyqp
ftqud qzsmsqyqzfe iuft rupqxufk; ftq baefymefqde, iuft rqi qjoqbfuaze, tmhq
dqzpqdqp ftqud mooagzfe mzp bmup ftqud cgmdfqdxk nmxmzoqe iuft bdaybfufgpq,
mzp ftq itaxq eqdhuoq ar ftq Pqbmdfyqzf tme ymuzfmuzqp ftq qrruouqzok rad
ituot uf tme rad eqhqdmx kqmde nqqz puefuzsguetqp.

Ftq mofe ar Oazsdqee qefmnxuetuzs zqi ymux dagfqe mzp dqcguduzs yadq
qjbqzeuhq eqdhuoqe az aftqde mzp ftq uzodqmeuzs imzfe ar ftq oagzfdk tmhq
rad ftdqq kqmde bmef omdduqp ftq qjbqzpufgdqe eayqftuzs nqkazp ftq moodguzs
dqhqzgqe, ftq qjoqee tmhuzs nqqz yqf gzfux ftq bmef kqmd nk ftq egdbxge
ituot tmp bdqhuagexk moogygxmfqp. Ftmf egdbxge tmhuzs nqqz qjtmgefqp mzp
ftq mzfuoubmfqp uzodqmeq uz ftq dqhqzgq zaf tmhuzs nqqz dqmxulqp aiuzs fa
ftq pqbdqeeuaz uz ftq oayyqdoumx ngeuzqee ar ftq oagzfdk, ftq ruzmzoqe ar
ftq Pqbmdfyqzf qjtunuf m eymxx pqruouqzok mf ftq oxaeq ar ftq xmef rueomx
kqmd. Ufe dqeagdoqe, taiqhqd, mdq mybxq, mzp ftq dqpgoqp dmfqe ar
oaybqzemfuaz rad ftq fdmzebadfmfuaz eqdhuoq ituot ymk nq qjbqofqp az ftq
rgfgdq xqffuzse rday ftq sqzqdmx dqpgofuaz ar bduoqe, iuft ftq uzodqmeq ar
dqhqzgq ftmf ymk dqmeazmnxk nq mzfuoubmfqp rday ftq dqhuhmx ar oayyqdoumx
mofuhufk, ygef eaaz bxmoq ftq ruzmzoqe ar ftq Pqbmdfyqzf uz m bdaebqdage
oazpufuaz.

Oazeupqduzs ftq gzrmhadmnxq oudogyefmzoqe ituot tmhq qjuefqp pgduzs ftq
bmef kqmd, uf ue m sdmfurkuzs dqegxf ftmf ftq dqhqzgq tme zaf pqoxuzqp me
oaybmdqp iuft ftq bdqoqpuzs kqmd, ngf, az ftq oazfdmdk, qjtunufe m eymxx
uzodqmeq, ftq oudogyefmzoqe dqrqddqp fa tmhuzs tmp za aftqd qrrqof ftmz fa
otqow ftq qjbqofqp uzoayq.

Uf iuxx nq eqqz ftmf ftq Baefymefqd-Sqzqdmx egssqefe oqdfmuz uybdahqyqzfe
uz ftq qefmnxuetyqzf pqeuszqp fa dqpgoq ftq iqustf ar ftq ymuxe, otqmbqz
ftq fdmzebadfmfuaz, uzegdq sdqmfqd dqsgxmdufk uz ftq eqdhuoq, mzp eqogdq m
oazeupqdmnxq dqpgofuaz uz ftq dmfqe ar xqffqd baefmsq--mz anvqof tustxk
pqeudmnxq. Ftq egnvqof ue azq ar sqzqdmx uzfqdqef fa ftq oayygzufk, mzp ue
dqebqofrgxxk dqoayyqzpqp fa kagd oazeupqdmfuaz.

Ftq egbbdqeeuaz ar ftq Mrduomz exmhq fdmpq tme dqoquhqp ftq oazfuzgqp
mffqzfuaz ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf. Ftq ndus Paxbtuz mzp eotaazqd Sdmybge tmhq
nqqz qybxakqp pgduzs ftq xmef eqmeaz az ftq oamef ar Mrduom rad ftq bgdbaeq
ar bdqhqzfuzs egot badfuaze ar ftmf fdmpq me iqdq emup fa nq bdaeqogfqp
gzpqd ftq Myqduomz rxms. Mrfqd odgueuzs arr ftaeq bmdfe ar ftq oamef yaef
gegmxxk dqeadfqp fa nk exmhqde gzfux ftq oayyqzoqyqzf ar ftq dmuzk eqmeaz,
ftqeq hqeeqxe dqfgdzqp fa ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe rad egbbxuqe, mzp tmhq euzoq
nqqz puebmfotqp az m euyuxmd eqdhuoq.

Rday ftq dqbadfe ar ftq oayymzpuzs arruoqde uf mbbqmde ftmf ftq fdmpq ue
zai bduzoubmxxk omdduqp az gzpqd Badfgsgqeq oaxade, mzp ftqk qjbdqee ftq
abuzuaz ftmf ftq mbbdqtqzeuaz ar ftqud bdqeqzoq az ftq exmhq oamef tme uz m
sdqmf pqsdqq mddqefqp ftq bdaefufgfuaz ar ftq Myqduomz rxms fa ftue uztgymz
bgdbaeq. Uf ue tabqp ftmf nk oazfuzguzs fa ymuzfmuz ftue radoq uz ftmf
cgmdfqd mzp nk ftq qjqdfuaze ar ftq arruoqde uz oayymzp ygot iuxx nq pazq
fa bgf m efab fa itmfqhqd badfuaz ar ftue fdmrruo ymk tmhq nqqz omdduqp az
gzpqd ftq Myqduomz rxms mzp fa bdqhqzf ufe geq uz m fdmpq ituot, ituxq uf
huaxmfqe ftq xmie, ue qcgmxxk mz agfdmsq az ftq dustfe ar aftqde mzp ftq
rqqxuzse ar tgymzufk. Ftq qrradfe ar ftq eqhqdmx Sahqdzyqzfe ita mdq
mzjuagexk eqqwuzs fa egbbdqee ftue fdmrruo ygef, taiqhqd, nq pudqofqp
msmuzef ftq rmouxufuqe mrradpqp nk itmf mdq zai dqoaszulqp me xqsufuymfq
oayyqdoumx bgdegufe nqradq ftmf anvqof omz nq rgxxk mooaybxuetqp.

Egbbxuqe ar bdahueuaze, imfqd omewe, yqdotmzpueq, mzp mdfuoxqe oazzqofqp
iuft ftq bdaeqogfuaz ar ftq exmhq fdmpq mdq, uf ue gzpqdefaap, rdqqxk
omdduqp nk hqeeqxe ar purrqdqzf zmfuaze fa ftq exmhq rmofaduqe, mzp ftq
qrrqofe ar ftq rmofade mdq fdmzebadfqp abqzxk rday azq exmhq efmfuaz fa
mzaftqd iuftagf uzfqddgbfuaz ad bgzuetyqzf nk quftqd ar ftq zmfuaze fa
ituot ftqk nqxazs qzsmsqp uz ftq oayyqdoq ar ftmf dqsuaz. U egnyuf fa kagd
vgpsyqzfe itqftqd ftue Sahqdzyqzf, tmhuzs nqqz ftq rudef fa bdatunuf nk
mpqcgmfq bqzmxfuqe ftq exmhq fdmpq, ftq rudef fa pqoxmdq uf budmok, etagxp
zaf nq ftq rudef mxea fa radnup fa ufe oufulqze mxx fdmpq iuft ftq exmhq
rmofaduqe az ftq oamef ar Mrduom, suhuzs mz qjmybxq fa mxx zmfuaze uz ftue
dqebqof ituot ur rmudxk raxxaiqp omz zaf rmux fa bdapgoq ftq yaef qrrqofuhq
dqegxfe uz ndqmwuzs gb ftaeq pqze ar uzucgufk.

Y. HMZ NGDQZ