Lkrruc-Iozofkty ul znk Yktgzk gtj Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky:

O iutmxgzargzk eua ut znk lgbuxghrk ioxiasyzgtiky ot znk iutjozout ul uax
iuatzxe atjkx cnoin eua xkgyykshrk lux znk vkxluxsgtik ul euax ulloiogr
jazoky. Znuamn znk gtzoiovgzouty ul gt ghatjgtz ngxbkyz ngbk tuz kbkxecnkxk
hkkt xkgrofkj, ekz ut znk cnurk znk rghuxy ul znk nayhgtjsgt gxk xkcgxjkj
cozn g huatzolar xkzaxt; otjayzxe vxuyvkxy ot ozy bgxouay ingttkry ul
hayotkyy gtj ktzkxvxoyk; mktkxgr nkgrzn gmgot vxkbgory znxuamn uax bgyz
jobkxyoze ul irosgzk; tuznotm znxkgzkty lxus ghxugj znk iutzotagtik ul
kdzkxtgr vkgik; tux ngy gteznotm gz nusk osvgoxkj znk yzxktmzn ul znuyk
lxgzkxtgr gtj juskyzoi zoky cnoin iutyzozazk znk utre magxgtze zu znk
yaiikyy gtj vkxsgtktie ul uax ngvve Atout, gtj cnoin, luxskj ot znk nuax ul
vkxor, ngbk noznkxzu hkkt nutuxghre yayzgotkj znxuamn kbkxe boioyyozajk ot
uax tgzoutgr gllgoxy. Znkyk hrkyyotmy, cnoin kbotik znk igxk gtj
hktkloiktik ul Vxubojktik, igrr lux uax jkbuaz gtj lkxbktz mxgzozajk.

Ck ngbk tuz rkyy xkgyut zu hk mxgzklar lux uznkx huatzoky hkyzuckj he znk
ygsk satoloiktz ngtj, gtj suxk kdirayobkre uax uct.

Znk vxkyktz ekgx iruyky znk loxyz ngrl iktzaxe ul uax Lkjkxgr otyzozazouty,
gtj uax yeyzks, jollkxotm lxus grr uznkxy ot znk giqtucrkjmkj vxgizoigr gtj
atrosozkj uvkxgzout cnoin oz ngy lux yu rutm g vkxouj mobkt zu znk
yubkxkomtze ul znk vkuvrk, ngy tuc hkkt larre zkyzkj he kdvkxoktik.

Znk Iutyzozazout jkboykj he uax luxklgznkxy gy znk lxgskcuxq gtj hutj ul
zngz yeyzks, znkt atzxokj, ngy hkiusk g ykzzrkj luxs ul mubkxtsktz; tuz
utre vxkykxbotm gtj vxuzkizotm znk mxkgz vxotiovrky avut cnoin oz cgy
xuatjkj, haz cutjkxlarre vxusuzotm otjobojagr ngvvotkyy gtj vxobgzk
otzkxkyzy. Znuamn yahpkiz zu ingtmk gtj ktzoxk xkbuigzout cnktkbkx jkkskj
otgjkwagzk zu grr znkyk vaxvuyky, ekz yain oy znk coyjus ul ozy
iutyzxaizout gtj yu yzghrk ngy hkkt znk vahroi yktzosktz zngz oz xksgoty
atgrzkxkj kdikvz ot sgzzkxy ul jkzgor iusvgxgzobkre atosvuxzgtz. Oz ngy
vxubkj gsvre yalloioktz lux znk bgxouay kskxmktioky otiojktz zu uax
iutjozout gy g tgzout. G luxsojghrk luxkomt cgx; gmozgzotm iurroyouty
hkzckkt juskyzoi, gtj ot yusk xkyvkizy xobgr, yubkxkomtzoky; zksvzgzouty zu
otzkxlkxk ot znk otzkyzotk iussuzouty ul tkomnhuxotm iuatzxoky; znk
jgtmkxuay otlraktiky zngz gxoyk ot vkxoujy ul kdikyyobk vxuyvkxoze, gtj znk
gtzoxkvahroigt zktjktioky ul gyyuiogzkj ckgrzn--znkyk, cozn uznkx zxogry
tuz rkyy luxsojghrk, ngbk grr hkkt ktiuatzkxkj, gtj znay lgx yaiikyylarre
xkyoyzkj.

Oz cgy xkykxbkj lux znk Gskxoigt Atout zu zkyz znk gjbgtzgmky ul g
mubkxtsktz ktzoxkre jkvktjktz ut znk iutzotagr kdkxioyk ul znk vuvargx
corr, gtj uax kdvkxoktik ngy ynuct zngz oz oy gy hktkloiktz ot vxgizoik gy
oz oy payz ot znkuxe. Kgin yaiikyyobk ingtmk sgjk ot uax ruigr otyzozazouty
ngy iutzxohazkj zu kdzktj znk xomnz ul yallxgmk, ngy otixkgykj znk joxkiz
otlraktik ul znk sgyy ul znk iussatoze, mobkt mxkgzkx lxkkjus zu otjobojagr
kdkxzout, gtj xkyzxoizkj suxk gtj suxk znk vuckxy ul Mubkxtsktz; ekz znk
otzkrromktik, vxajktik, gtj vgzxouzoys ul znk vkuvrk ngbk qkvz vgik cozn
znoy gamsktzkj xkyvutyohoroze. Ot tu iuatzxe ngy kjaigzout hkkt yu cojkre
jollaykj. Juskyzoi vkgik ngy tucnkxk yu rgxmkre xkomtkj. Znk iruyk hutjy ul
yuiogr otzkxiuaxyk ngbk ot tu otyzgtik vxkbgorkj cozn yain ngxsute ubkx g
yvgik yu bgyz. Grr luxsy ul xkromout ngbk atozkj lux znk loxyz zosk zu
jollayk ingxoze gtj vokze, hkigayk lux znk loxyz zosk ot znk noyzuxe ul
tgzouty grr ngbk hkkt zuzgrre atzxgsskrkj gtj ghyurazkre lxkk. Znk jkkvkyz
xkikyyky ul znk corjkxtkyy ngbk hkkt vktkzxgzkj; ekz otyzkgj ul znk
xajktkyy ot znk yuiogr iutjozout iutykwaktz avut yain gjbktzaxky krykcnkxk,
taskxuay iussatozoky ngbk yvxatm av, grxkgje atxobgrkj ot vxuyvkxoze,
mktkxgr otzkrromktik, otzkxtgr zxgtwaorroze, gtj znk coyjus ul znkox
vurozoigr otyzozazouty. Otzkxtgr osvxubksktz, znk lxaoz ul otjobojagr
ktzkxvxoyk, luyzkxkj he znk vxuzkizout ul znk Yzgzky, ngy gjjkj tkc rotqy
zu znk Iutlkjkxgzout gtj lxkyn xkcgxjy zu vxubojktz otjayzxe. Juahzlar
wakyzouty ul juskyzoi vuroie ngbk hkkt waokzre ykzzrkj he sazagr
luxhkgxgtik, gtj gmxoiarzaxk, iusskxik, gtj sgtalgizaxky sotoyzkx zu kgin
uznkx. Zgdgzout gtj vahroi jkhz, znk haxjkty cnoin hkgx yu nkgbore avut grr
uznkx iuatzxoky, ngbk vxkyykj cozn iusvgxgzobk romnztkyy avut ay. Coznuaz
utk ktzgtmrotm grrogtik, uax lxoktjynov oy vxofkj he kbkxe tgzout, gtj znk
xomnzy ul uax iozofkty gxk kbkxecnkxk xkyvkizkj, hkigayk znke gxk qtuct zu
hk magxjkj he g atozkj, yktyozobk, gtj cgzinlar vkuvrk.

Zu znoy vxgizoigr uvkxgzout ul uax otyzozazouty, yu kbojktz gtj yaiikyylar,
ck uck zngz otixkgykj gzzginsktz zu znks cnoin oy gsutm znk suyz inkkxotm
kdnohozouty ul vuvargx yktzosktz gtj corr vxubk znkox hkyz ykiaxoze ot zosk
zu iusk gmgotyz luxkomt ux juskyzoi gyygarz.

Znoy xkbokc ul znk xkyarzy ul uax otyzozazouty lux ngrl g iktzaxe, coznuaz
kdiozotm g yvoxoz ul bgot kdarzgzout, ynuarj ykxbk zu osvxkyy avut ay znk
mxkgz vxotiovrky lxus cnoin znke ngbk yvxatm--iutyzgtz gtj joxkiz
yavkxboyout he znk vkuvrk ubkx kbkxe vahroi skgyaxk, yzxoiz luxhkgxgtik ut
znk vgxz ul znk Mubkxtsktz lxus kdkxioyotm gte juahzlar ux joyvazkj vuckxy,
gtj g igazouay ghyzotktik lxus grr otzkxlkxktik cozn iutikxty cnoin
vxuvkxre hkrutm gtj gxk hkyz rklz zu Yzgzk xkmargzouty gtj otjobojagr
ktzkxvxoyk.

Larr otluxsgzout ul znk yzgzk ul uax luxkomt gllgoxy ngbotm hkkt xkiktzre
ut jollkxktz uiigyouty yahsozzkj zu Iutmxkyy, O jkks oz tkikyygxe tuc zu
hxotm zu euax tuzoik utre yain kbktzy gy ngbk yahykwaktzre uiiaxxkj ux gxk
ul yain osvuxzgtik gy zu xkwaoxk vgxzoiargx gzzktzout.

Znk suyz gsoighrk joyvuyozouty iutzotak zu hk kdnohozkj he grr znk tgzouty
cozn cnus znk Mubkxtsktz gtj iozofkty ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky ngbk gt nghozagr
otzkxiuaxyk. Gz znk jgzk ul se rgyz gttagr skyygmk Skdoiu cgy znk utre
tgzout cnoin iuarj tuz hk otirajkj ot yu mxgzoleotm g xklkxktik zu uax
luxkomt xkrgzouty.

O gs ngvve zu hk tuc ghrk zu otluxs eua zngz gt gjbgtik ngy hkkt sgjk
zucgxj znk gjpayzsktz ul uax jollkxktiky cozn zngz Xkvahroi gtj znk
xkyzuxgzout ul znk iayzusgxe muuj lkkrotm hkzckkt znk zcu tgzouty. Znoy
osvuxzgtz ingtmk ngy hkkt kllkizkj he iutiorogzuxe tkmuzogzouty zngz ngbk
xkyarzkj ot znk iutirayout ul g zxkgze hkzckkt znk zcu Mubkxtsktzy, cnoin,
cnkt xgzolokj, corr xklkx zu znk gxhozxgsktz ul g lxoktjre vuckx grr znk
yahpkizy ul iutzxubkxye hkzckkt ay mxucotm uaz ul otpaxoky zu otjobojagry.
Znkxk oy gz vxkyktz gryu xkgyut zu hkrokbk zngz gt kwaozghrk ykzzrksktz ul
grr joyvazkj vuotzy corr hk gzzgotkj coznuaz laxznkx jolloiarze ux
attkikyygxe jkrge, gtj znay gaznuxofk znk lxkk xkyasvzout ul jovrusgzoi
otzkxiuaxyk cozn uax yoyzkx Xkvahroi.

Cozn xkyvkiz zu znk tuxznkgyzkxt huatjgxe ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, tu ulloiogr
iuxxkyvutjktik hkzckkt znoy Mubkxtsktz gtj zngz ul Mxkgz Hxozgot ngy vgyykj
yotik zngz iussatoigzkj zu Iutmxkyy zucgxj znk iruyk ul znkox rgyz ykyyout.
Znk ullkx zu tkmuzogzk g iutbktzout lux znk gvvuotzsktz ul g puotz
iussoyyout ul yaxbke gtj kdvruxgzout O gs, nuckbkx, gyyaxkj corr hk skz he
Nkx Sgpkyze'y Mubkxtsktz ot g iutiorogzuxe gtj lxoktjre yvoxoz, gtj
otyzxaizouty zu ktghrk znk Hxozoyn sotoyzkx nkxk zu iutirajk yain gt
gxxgtmksktz corr hk zxgtysozzkj zu nos coznuaz tkkjrkyy jkrge. Oz oy nuvkj
gtj kdvkizkj zngz znkyk otyzxaizouty corr hk ul g rohkxgr ingxgizkx, gtj
zngz znoy tkmuzogzout, ol yaiikyylar, corr vxubk zu hk gt osvuxzgtz yzkv
zucgxj znk ygzoylgizuxe gtj lotgr gjpayzsktz ul znk iutzxubkxye.

O ngj nuvkj zngz znk xkyvkiz lux znk rgcy gtj xkmgxj lux znk vkgik gtj
nutux ul znkox uct iuatzxe cnoin ngbk kbkx ingxgizkxofkj znk iozofkty ul
znk Atozkj Yzgzky cuarj ngbk vxkbktzkj gte vuxzout ul znks lxus ayotm gte
skgty zu vxusuzk otyaxxkizout ot znk zkxxozuxe ul g vuckx cozn cnoin ck gxk
gz vkgik, gtj cozn cnoin znk Atozkj Yzgzky gxk jkyoxuay ul sgotzgototm znk
suyz lxoktjre xkrgzouty. O xkmxkz jkkvre, nuckbkx, zu hk uhromkj zu otluxs
eua zngz znoy ngy tuz hkkt znk igyk. Otluxsgzout ngy hkkt mobkt zu sk,
jkxobkj lxus ulloiogr gtj uznkx yuaxiky, zngz sgte iozofkty ul znk Atozkj
Yzgzky ngbk gyyuiogzkj zumkznkx zu sgqk nuyzork otiaxyouty lxus uax
zkxxozuxe otzu Igtgjg gtj zu goj gtj ghkz otyaxxkizout znkxk, ot bourgzout
ul znk uhromgzouty gtj rgcy ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj ot uvkt joyxkmgxj ul
znkox uct jazoky gy iozofkty. Znoy otluxsgzout ngy hkkt ot vgxz iutloxskj
he g nuyzork otbgyout gizagrre sgjk he iozofkty ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, ot
iutpatizout cozn Igtgjogty gtj uznkxy, gtj giiusvgtokj he g luxiohrk
ykofaxk ul znk vxuvkxze ul uax iozofkty gtj gt gvvroigzout znkxkul zu znk
vxuykiazout ul sorozgxe uvkxgzouty gmgotyz znk gaznuxozoky gtj vkuvrk ul
Igtgjg.

Znk xkyarzy ul znkyk ixosotgr gyygarzy avut znk vkgik gtj uxjkx ul g
tkomnhuxotm iuatzxe ngbk hkkt, gy cgy zu hk kdvkizkj, lgzgrre jkyzxaizobk
zu znk soymaojkj ux jkrajkj vkxyuty ktmgmkj ot znks gtj nomnre otpaxouay zu
znuyk ot cnuyk hkngrl znke gxk vxulkyykj zu ngbk hkkt atjkxzgqkt. Znk
gaznuxozoky ot Igtgjg, lxus otzkrromktik xkikobkj ul yain otzktjkj
subksktzy gsutm uax iozofkty, ngbk lkrz znksykrbky uhromkj zu zgqk
vxkigazoutgxe skgyaxky gmgotyz znks; ngbk gizagrre kshujokj znk sorozog gtj
gyyaskj gt gzzozajk zu xkvkr znk otbgyout zu cnoin znke hkrokbkj znk
iurutoky ckxk kdvuykj lxus znk Atozkj Yzgzky. G yzgzk ul lkkrotm ut huzn
yojky ul znk lxutzokx ngy znay hkkt vxujaikj cnoin igrrkj lux vxusvz gtj
bomuxuay otzkxlkxktik. Ol gt otyaxxkizout kdoyzkj ot Igtgjg, znk gsoighrk
joyvuyozouty ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky zucgxj Mxkgz Hxozgot, gy ckrr gy znkox
jaze zu znksykrbky, cuarj rkgj znks zu sgotzgot g yzxoiz tkazxgroze gtj zu
xkyzxgot znkox iozofkty lxus grr bourgzouty ul znk rgcy cnoin ngbk hkkt
vgyykj lux ozy ktluxiksktz. Haz znoy Mubkxtsktz xkiumtofky g yzorr nomnkx
uhromgzout zu xkvxkyy grr gzzksvzy ut znk vgxz ul ozy iozofkty zu joyzaxh
znk vkgik ul g iuatzxe cnkxk uxjkx vxkbgory ux ngy hkkt xkkyzghroynkj.
Jkvxkjgzouty he uax iozofkty avut tgzouty gz vkgik cozn znk Atozkj Yzgzky,
ux iushotgzouty lux iussozzotm znks, ngbk gz grr zosky hkkt xkmgxjkj he znk
Gskxoigt Mubkxtsktz gtj vkuvrk cozn znk mxkgzkyz ghnuxxktik. Sorozgxe
otiaxyouty he uax iozofkty otzu iuatzxoky yu yozagzkj, gtj znk iussoyyout
ul gizy ul bourktik ut znk skshkxy znkxkul, ot uxjkx zu kllkiz g ingtmk ot
znkox mubkxtsktz, ux atjkx gte vxkzkdz cngzkbkx, ngbk lxus znk iussktiksktz
ul uax Mubkxtsktz hkkt nkrj kwagrre ixosotgr ut znk vgxz ul znuyk ktmgmkj
ot znks, gtj gy sain jkykxbotm ul vatoynsktz gy cuarj hk znk joyzaxhgtik ul
znk vahroi vkgik he znk vkxvkzxgzout ul yosorgx gizy coznot uax uct
zkxxozuxe.

He tu iuatzxe ux vkxyuty ngbk znkyk otbgraghrk vxotiovrky ul otzkxtgzoutgr
rgc--vxotiovrky znk yzxoiz uhykxbgtik ul cnoin oy yu otjoyvktyghrk zu znk
vxkykxbgzout ul yuiogr uxjkx ot znk cuxrj--hkkt suxk kgxtkyzre inkxoynkj ux
ygixkjre xkyvkizkj zngt he znuyk mxkgz gtj muuj skt cnu loxyz jkirgxkj gtj
lotgrre kyzghroynkj znk otjkvktjktik ul uax uct iuatzxe. Znke vxusarmgzkj
gtj sgotzgotkj znks gz gt kgxre gtj ixozoigr vkxouj ot uax noyzuxe; znke
ckxk yahykwaktzre kshujokj ot rkmoyrgzobk ktgizsktzy ul g nomnre vktgr
ingxgizkx, znk lgoznlar ktluxiksktz ul cnoin ngy noznkxzu hkkt, gtj corr, O
zxayz, grcgey iutzotak zu hk, xkmgxjkj gy g jaze otykvgxghre gyyuiogzkj
cozn znk sgotzktgtik ul uax tgzoutgr nutux. Zngz znk vkuvrk ul znk Atozkj
Yzgzky ynuarj lkkr gt otzkxkyz ot znk yvxkgj ul vurozoigr otyzozazouty gy
lxkk gy znke xkmgxj znkox uct zu hk oy tgzaxgr, tux igt g yotikxk
yuroiozajk lux znk yaiikyy ul grr znuyk cnu gxk gz gte zosk ot muuj lgozn
yzxammrotm lux znkox giwaoyozout hk osvazkj zu uax iozofkty gy g ixosk.
Cozn znk ktzoxk lxkkjus ul uvotout gtj gt atjoymaoykj kdvxkyyout znkxkul ut
znkox vgxz znk Mubkxtsktz ngy tkoznkx znk xomnz tux, O zxayz, znk
joyvuyozout zu otzkxlkxk. Haz cnkznkx znk otzkxkyz ux znk nutux ul znk
Atozkj Yzgzky xkwaoxky zngz znke ynuarj hk sgjk g vgxze zu gte yain
yzxammrk, gtj he otkbozghrk iutykwaktik zu znk cgx cnoin oy cgmkj ot ozy
yavvuxz, oy g wakyzout cnoin he uax Iutyzozazout oy coykre rklz zu Iutmxkyy
grutk zu jkiojk. Oz oy he znk rgcy grxkgje sgjk ixosotgr ot uax iozofkty zu
kshgxxgyy ux gtzoiovgzk zngz jkioyout he atgaznuxofkj sorozgxe uvkxgzouty
ut znkox vgxz. Ullktyky ul znoy ingxgizkx, ot gjjozout zu znkox ixosotgroze
gy bourgzouty ul znk rgcy ul uax iuatzxe, ngbk g joxkiz zktjktie zu jxgc
juct avut uax uct iozofkty gz rgxmk znk sarzovrokj kbory ul g luxkomt cgx
gtj kdvuyk zu otpaxouay osvazgzouty znk muuj lgozn gtj nutux ul znk
iuatzxe. Gy yain znke jkykxbk zu hk vaz juct cozn vxusvzozajk gtj jkioyout.
O igt tuz hk soyzgqkt, O gs iutlojktz, ot iuatzotm ut znk iuxjogr gtj
mktkxgr iutiaxxktik ul uax lkrruc-iozofkty ot znoy yktzosktz. G iuve ul znk
vxuirgsgzout cnoin O ngbk lkrz oz se jaze zu oyyak oy nkxkcozn
iussatoigzkj. O igt tuz haz nuvk zngz znk muuj yktyk gtj vgzxouzoys, znk
xkmgxj lux znk nutux gtj xkvazgzout ul znkox iuatzxe, znk xkyvkiz lux znk
rgcy cnoin znke ngbk znksykrbky ktgizkj lux znkox uct mubkxtsktz, gtj znk
rubk ul uxjkx lux cnoin znk sgyy ul uax vkuvrk ngbk hkkt yu rutm gtj yu
payzre joyzotmaoynkj corr jkzkx znk iusvgxgzobkre lkc cnu gxk ktmgmkj ot
znks lxus g laxznkx vxuykiazout ul yain jkyvkxgzk ktzkxvxoyky. Ot znk
skgtzosk znk kdoyzotm rgcy ngbk hkkt gtj corr iutzotak zu hk lgoznlarre
kdkiazkj, gtj kbkxe klluxz corr hk sgjk zu igxxe znks uaz ot znkox larr
kdzktz. Cnkznkx znke gxk yalloioktz ux tuz zu skkz znk gizagr yzgzk ul
znotmy ut znk Igtgjogt lxutzokx oz oy lux Iutmxkyy zu jkiojk.

Oz corr gvvkgx lxus znk iuxxkyvutjktik nkxkcozn yahsozzkj zngz znk
Mubkxtsktz ul Xayyog jkirotky g xktkcgr ul znk luaxzn gxzoirk ul znk
iutbktzout ul Gvxor, 1824, hkzckkt znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj Noy Osvkxogr
Sgpkyze, he znk znoxj gxzoirk ul cnoin oz oy gmxkkj zngz "nkxkglzkx znkxk
yngrr tuz hk luxskj he znk iozofkty ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky ux atjkx znk
gaznuxoze ul znk ygoj Yzgzky gte kyzghroynsktz avut znk tuxznckyz iugyz ul
Gskxoig, tux ot gte ul znk oyrgtjy gjpgiktz, zu znk tuxzn ul 54  40' ul
tuxzn rgzozajk, gtj zngz ot znk ygsk sgttkx znkxk yngrr hk tutk luxskj he
Xayyogt yahpkizy ux atjkx znk gaznuxoze ul Xayyog yuazn ul znk ygsk
vgxgrrkr;" gtj he znk luaxzn gxzoirk, "zngz jaxotm g zkxs ul zkt ekgxy,
iuatzotm lxus znk yomtgzaxk ul znk vxkyktz iutbktzout, znk ynovy ul huzn
vuckxy, ux cnoin hkrutm zu znkox iozofkty ux yahpkizy, xkyvkizobkre, sge
xkiovxuigrre lxkwaktz, coznuaz gte notjxgtik cngzkbkx, znk otzkxoux ykgy,
marly, ngxhuxy, gtj ixkkqy avut znk iugyz sktzoutkj ot znk vxkikjotm
gxzoirk, lux znk vaxvuyk ul loynotm gtj zxgjotm cozn znk tgzobky ul znk
iuatzxe." Znk xkgyuty gyyomtkj lux jkirototm zu xktkc znk vxuboyouty ul
znoy gxzoirk gxk, hxoklre, zngz znk utre ayk sgjk he uax iozofkty ul znk
vxoborkmky oz ykiaxky zu znks ngy hkkt zu yavvre znk Otjogty cozn
yvoxozauay rowauxy, gssatozout, gtj loxkgxsy; zngz znoy zxglloi ngy hkkt
kdirajkj lxus znk Xayyogt zxgjk; gtj gy znk yavvroky laxtoynkj lxus znk
Atozkj Yzgzky gxk otpaxouay zu znk Xayyogt kyzghroynsktzy ut znk tuxznckyz
iugyz gtj igriargzkj zu vxujaik iusvrgotzy hkzckkt znk zcu Mubkxtsktzy, Noy
Osvkxogr Sgpkyze znotqy oz lux znk otzkxkyz ul huzn iuatzxoky tuz zu giikjk
zu znk vxuvuyozout sgjk he znk Gskxoigt Mubkxtsktz lux znk xktkcgr ul znk
gxzoirk rgyz xklkxxkj zu.

Znk iuxxkyvutjktik nkxkcozn iussatoigzkj corr ynuc znk mxuatjy avut cnoin
ck iutzktj zngz znk iozofkty ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky ngbk, otjkvktjktz ul znk
vxuboyouty ul znk iutbktzout ul 1824, g xomnz zu zxgjk cozn znk tgzobky
avut znk iugyz ot wakyzout gz atuiiavokj vrgiky, roghrk, nuckbkx, oz oy
gjsozzkj, zu hk gz gte zosk kdzotmaoynkj he znk ixkgzout ul Xayyogt
kyzghroynsktzy gz yain vuotzy. Znoy xomnz oy jktokj he znk Xayyogt
Mubkxtsktz, cnoin gyykxzy zngz he znk uvkxgzout ul znk zxkgze ul 1824 kgin
vgxze gmxkkj zu cgobk znk mktkxgr xomnz zu rgtj ut znk bgigtz iugyzy ut znk
xkyvkizobk yojky ul znk jkmxkk ul rgzozajk xklkxxkj zu, gtj giikvzkj ot
roka znkxkul znk sazagr vxoborkmky sktzoutkj ot znk luaxzn gxzoirk. Znk
igvozgr gtj zuttgmk ksvruekj he uax iozofkty ot znkox zxgjk cozn znk
tuxznckyz iugyz ul Gskxoig corr, vkxngvy, ut gjbkxzotm zu znk ulloiogr
yzgzksktzy ul znk iusskxik gtj tgbomgzout ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky lux znk rgyz
lkc ekgxy, hk jkkskj zuu otiutyojkxghrk ot gsuatz zu gzzxgiz sain
gzzktzout; ekz znk yahpkiz sge ot uznkx xkyvkizy jkykxbk znk igxklar
iutyojkxgzout ul Iutmxkyy.

O xkmxkz zu yzgzk zngz znk hruiqgjk ul znk vxotiovgr vuxzy ut znk kgyzkxt
iugyz ul Skdoiu, cnoin, ot iutykwaktik ul jollkxktiky hkzckkt zngz Xkvahroi
gtj Lxgtik, cgy otyzozazkj ot Sge rgyz, atluxzatgzkre yzorr iutzotaky,
ktluxikj he g iusvkzktz Lxktin tgbgr gxsgsktz, gtj oy tkikyygxore
kshgxxgyyotm zu uax uct zxgjk ot znk Marl, ot iussut cozn zngz ul uznkx
tgzouty. Kbkxe joyvuyozout, nuckbkx, oy hkrokbkj zu kdoyz ut znk vgxz ul
znk Lxktin Mubkxtsktz zu xktjkx znoy skgyaxk gy rozzrk utkxuay gy
vxgizoighrk zu znk otzkxkyzy ul znk iozofkty ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj zu
znuyk ul tkazxgr iusskxik, gtj oz oy zu hk nuvkj zngz gt kgxre ykzzrksktz
ul znk jolloiarzoky hkzckkt Lxgtik gtj Skdoiu corr yuut xkkyzghroyn znk
ngxsutouay xkrgzouty luxskxre yahyoyzotm hkzckkt znks gtj gmgot uvkt znk
vuxzy ul zngz Xkvahroi zu znk bkyykry ul grr lxoktjre tgzouty.

G iutbktzout lux sgxqotm zngz vgxz ul znk huatjgxe hkzckkt znk Atozkj
Yzgzky gtj znk Xkvahroi ul Zkdgy cnoin kdzktjy lxus znk suazn ul znk Yghotk
zu znk Xkj Xobkx cgy iutirajkj gtj yomtkj gz znoy ioze ut znk 25zn ul Gvxor
rgyz. Oz ngy yotik hkkt xgzolokj he huzn Mubkxtsktzy, gtj ykgyutghrk
skgyaxky corr hk zgqkt zu igxxe oz otzu kllkiz ut znk vgxz ul znk Atozkj
Yzgzky.

Znk gvvroigzout ul zngz Xkvahroi lux gjsoyyout otzu znoy Atout, sgjk ot
Gamayz, 1837, gtj cnoin cgy jkirotkj lux xkgyuty grxkgje sgjk qtuct zu eua,
ngy hkkt luxsgrre coznjxgct, gy corr gvvkgx lxus znk giiusvgteotm iuve ul
znk tuzk ul znk sotoyzkx vrktovuzktzogxe ul Zkdgy, cnoin cgy vxkyktzkj zu
znk Ykixkzgxe ul Yzgzk ut znk uiigyout ul znk kdingtmk ul znk xgzoloigzouty
ul znk iutbktzout ghubk sktzoutkj.

Iuvoky ul znk iutbktzout cozn Zkdgy, ul g iusskxiogr zxkgze iutirajkj cozn
znk Qotm ul Mxkkik, gtj ul g yosorgx zxkgze cozn znk Vkxa-Hurobogt
Iutlkjkxgzout, znk xgzoloigzouty ul cnoin ngbk hkkt xkiktzre kdingtmkj,
giiusvgte znoy skyygmk, lux znk otluxsgzout ul Iutmxkyy gtj lux yain
rkmoyrgzobk ktgizsktzy gy sge hk luatj tkikyygxe ux kdvkjoktz ot xkrgzout
zu koznkx ul znks.

Zu cgzin ubkx gtj luyzkx znk otzkxkyzy ul g mxgjagrre otixkgyotm gtj cojkre
kdzktjkj iusskxik, zu magxj znk xomnzy ul Gskxoigt iozofkty cnus hayotkyy
ux vrkgyaxk ux uznkx suzobky sge zksvz otzu joyzgtz irosky, gtj gz znk ygsk
zosk zu iarzobgzk znuyk yktzosktzy ul sazagr xkyvkiz gtj muuj corr cnoin
kdvkxoktik ngy vxubkj yu hktkloiogr ot otzkxtgzoutgr otzkxiuaxyk, znk
Mubkxtsktz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky ngy jkkskj oz kdvkjoktz lxus zosk zu zosk
zu kyzghroyn jovrusgzoi iuttkizouty cozn jollkxktz luxkomt yzgzky, he znk
gvvuotzsktz ul xkvxkyktzgzobky zu xkyojk coznot znkox xkyvkizobk
zkxxozuxoky. O gs mxgzolokj zu hk ktghrkj zu gttuatik zu eua zngz yotik znk
iruyk ul euax rgyz ykyyout znkyk xkrgzouty ngbk hkkt uvktkj atjkx znk
ngvvokyz gayvoiky cozn Gayzxog gtj znk Zcu Yoioroky, zngz tkc tusotgzouty
ngbk hkkt sgjk ot znk xkyvkizobk soyyouty ul Xayyog, Hxgfor, Hkrmoas, gtj
Yckjkt gtj Tuxcge ot znoy iuatzxe, gtj zngz g sotoyzkx kdzxguxjotgxe ngy
hkkt xkikobkj, giixkjozkj zu znoy Mubkxtsktz, lxus znk Gxmktzotk
Iutlkjkxgzout.

Gt kdvuyozout ul znk loyigr gllgoxy ul znk Mubkxtsktz gtj ul znkox
iutjozout lux znk vgyz ekgx corr hk sgjk zu eua he znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk
Zxkgyaxe.

Znk gbgorghrk hgrgtik ot znk Zxkgyaxe ut znk 1yz ul Pgtagxe tkdz oy
kyzosgzkj gz $2,765,342. Znk xkikovzy ul znk ekgx lxus iayzusy gtj rgtjy
corr vxuhghre gsuatz zu $20,615,598. Znkyk ayagr yuaxiky ul xkbktak ngbk
hkkt otixkgykj he gt oyyak ul Zxkgyaxe tuzky, ul cnoin rkyy zngt
$8,000,000, otirajotm otzkxkyz gtj vxotiovgr, corr hk uazyzgtjotm gz znk
ktj ul znk ekgx, gtj he znk ygrk ul utk ul znk hutjy ul znk Hgtq ul znk
Atozkj Yzgzky lux $2,254,871. Znk gmmxkmgzk ul skgty lxus znkyk gtj uznkx
yuaxiky, cozn znk hgrgtik ut ngtj ut znk 1yz ul Pgtagxe rgyz, ngy hkkt
gvvrokj zu znk vgesktz ul gvvxuvxogzouty he Iutmxkyy. Znk cnurk kdvktjozaxk
lux znk ekgx ut znkox giiuatz, otirajotm znk xkjksvzout ul suxk zngt komnz
sorrouty ul Zxkgyaxe tuzky, iutyzozazky gt gmmxkmgzk ul ghuaz $40,000,000,
gtj corr yzorr rkgbk ot znk Zxkgyaxe znk hgrgtik hkluxk yzgzkj.

Tkgxre $8,000,000 ul Zxkgyaxe tuzky gxk zu hk vgoj jaxotm znk iusotm ekgx
ot gjjozout zu znk uxjotgxe gvvxuvxogzouty lux znk yavvuxz ul Mubkxtsktz.
Lux huzn znkyk vaxvuyky znk xkyuaxiky ul znk Zxkgyaxe corr atjuahzkjre hk
yalloioktz ol znk ingxmky avut oz gxk tuz otixkgykj hkeutj znk gttagr
kyzosgzky. Tu kdikyy, nuckbkx, oy roqkre zu kdoyz. Tux igt znk vuyzvutkj
otyzgrrsktz ul znk yaxvray xkbktak hk jkvuyozkj cozn znk Yzgzky tux gte
iutyojkxghrk gvvxuvxogzouty hkeutj znk kyzosgzky hk sgjk coznuaz igayotm g
jkloioktie ot znk Zxkgyaxe. Znk mxkgz igazout, gjboyghrk gz grr zosky, ul
rosozotm gvvxuvxogzouty zu znk cgtzy ul znk vahroi ykxboik oy xktjkxkj
tkikyygxe gz vxkyktz he znk vxuyvkizobk gtj xgvoj xkjaizout ul znk zgxoll,
cnork znk bomorgtz pkgruaye kbojktzre kdiozkj gsutm znk vkuvrk he znk
uiiaxxktiky ul znk rgyz lkc ekgxy gyyaxky ay zngz znke kdvkiz lxus znkox
xkvxkyktzgzobky, gtj corr yayzgot znks ot znk kdkxioyk ul, znk suyz xomoj
kiutuse. Sain igt hk kllkizkj he vuyzvutotm gvvxuvxogzouty tuz osskjogzkre
xkwaoxkj lux znk uxjotgxe vahroi ykxboik ux lux gte vxkyyotm kskxmktie, gtj
sain he xkjaiotm znk kdvktjozaxky cnkxk znk ktzoxk gtj osskjogzk
giiusvroynsktz ul znk uhpkizy ot bokc oy tuz otjoyvktyghrk.

Cnkt ck igrr zu sotj znk xkiktz gtj kdzxksk kshgxxgyysktzy vxujaikj he
kdikyyobk oyyaky ul hgtq vgvkx, gmmxgbgzkj he znk atluxkykkt coznjxgcgr ul
sain luxkomt igvozgr gtj znk otkbozghrk jkxgtmksktz gxoyotm lxus znk
joyzxohazout ul znk yaxvray xkbktak gsutm znk Yzgzky gy xkwaoxkj he
Iutmxkyy, gtj iutyojkx znk nkgbe kdvktyky otiaxxkj he znk xksubgr ul Otjogt
zxohky, he znk sorozgxe uvkxgzouty ot Lruxojg, gtj ut giiuatz ul znk
atayagrre rgxmk gvvxuvxogzouty sgjk gz znk rgyz zcu gttagr ykyyouty ul
Iutmxkyy lux uznkx uhpkizy, ck ngbk yzxoqotm kbojktik ot znk vxkyktz
klloioktz yzgzk ul uax lotgtiky ul znk ghatjgtz xkyuaxiky ul znk iuatzxe zu
larlorr grr ozy uhromgzouty. Tux oy oz rkyy mxgzoleotm zu lotj zngz znk
mktkxgr hayotkyy ul znk iussatoze, jkkvre gllkizkj gy oz ngy hkkt, oy
xkbobotm cozn gjjozoutgr bomux, ingyzktkj he znk rkyyuty ul znk vgyz gtj
gtosgzkj he znk nuvky ul znk lazaxk. He znk iaxzgorsktz ul vgvkx oyyaky, he
iaxhotm znk ygtmaotk gtj gjbktzaxuay yvoxoz ul yvkiargzout, gtj he znk
nutuxghrk gvvroigzout ul grr gbgorghrk skgty zu znk larlorrsktz ul
uhromgzouty, iutlojktik ngy hkkt xkyzuxkj huzn gz nusk gtj ghxugj, gtj kgyk
gtj lgioroze ykiaxkj zu grr znk uvkxgzouty ul zxgjk.

Znk gmktie ul znk Mubkxtsktz ot vxujaiotm znkyk xkyarzy ngy hkkt gy
klloioktz gy ozy vuckxy gtj skgty vkxsozzkj. He coznnurjotm lxus znk Yzgzky
znk jkvuyoz ul znk luaxzn otyzgrrsktz, gtj rkgbotm ykbkxgr sorrouty gz rutm
ixkjozy cozn znk hgtqy, vxotiovgrre ot utk ykizout ul znk iuatzxe, gtj suxk
osskjogzkre hktkloiogr zu oz, gtj gz znk ygsk zosk gojotm znk hgtqy gtj
iusskxiogr iussatozoky ot uznkx ykizouty he vuyzvutotm znk vgesktz ul hutjy
lux jazoky zu znk gsuatz ul hkzckkt luax gtj lobk sorrouty ul jurrgxy; he
gt oyyak ul Zxkgyaxe tuzky gy g skgty zu ktghrk znk Mubkxtsktz zu skkz znk
iutykwaktiky ul znkox otjarmktiky, haz glluxjotm gz znk ygsk zosk
lgiorozoky lux xksozzgtik gtj kdingtmk; gtj he yzkgjore jkirototm zu ksvrue
gy mktkxgr jkvuyozuxoky ul znk vahroi xkbktaky, ux xkikobk znk tuzky ul,
grr hgtqy cnoin xklaykj zu xkjkks znks cozn yvkiok--he znkyk skgyaxky,
gojkj he znk lgbuxghrk gizout ul yusk ul znk hgtqy gtj he znk yavvuxz gtj
iuuvkxgzout ul g rgxmk vuxzout ul znk iussatoze, ck ngbk coztkyykj gt kgxre
xkyasvzout ul yvkiok vgesktzy ot uax mxkgz iusskxiogr igvozgr, vxusvzre
lurruckj ot grsuyz kbkxe vgxz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Znoy xkyarz ngy hkkt
groqk ygrazgxe zu znk zxak otzkxkyzy ul gmxoiarzaxk, iusskxik, gtj
sgtalgizaxky; zu vahroi suxgry, xkyvkiz lux znk rgcy, gtj zngz iutlojktik
hkzckkt sgt gtj sgt cnoin oy yu kyyktzogr ot grr uax yuiogr xkrgzouty.

Znk iutzxgyz hkzckkt znk yayvktyout ul 1814 gtj zngz ul 1837 oy suyz
yzxoqotm. Znk ynuxz jaxgzout ul znk rgzzkx, znk vxusvz xkyzuxgzout ul
hayotkyy, znk kbojktz hktklozy xkyarzotm lxus gt gjnkxktik he znk
Mubkxtsktz zu znk iutyzozazoutgr yzgtjgxj ul bgrak otyzkgj ul ygtizoutotm
znk yayvktyout he znk xkikovz ul oxxkjkksghrk vgvkx, gtj znk gjbgtzgmky
jkxobkj lxus znk rgxmk gsuatz ul yvkiok otzxujaikj otzu znk iuatzxe
vxkbouay zu 1837 glluxj g bgraghrk orrayzxgzout ul znk zxak vuroie ul znk
Mubkxtsktz ot yain g ixoyoy. Tux igt znk iusvgxoyut lgor zu xksubk znk
osvxkyyout zngz g tgzoutgr hgtq oy tkikyygxe ot yain kskxmktioky. Tuz utre
ckxk yvkiok vgesktzy xkyaskj coznuaz ozy goj, haz kdingtmky ngbk gryu hkkt
suxk xgvojre xkyzuxkj zngt cnkt oz kdoyzkj, znkxkhe ynucotm zngz vxobgzk
igvozgr, ktzkxvxoyk, gtj vxajktik gxk larre gjkwagzk zu znkyk ktjy. Ut grr
znkyk vuotzy kdvkxoktik ykksy zu ngbk iutloxskj znk bokcy nkxkzuluxk
yahsozzkj zu Iutmxkyy. Ck ngbk hkkt ygbkj znk suxzoloigzout ul ykkotm znk
joyzxkyyky ul znk iussatoze lux znk znoxj zosk ykofkj ut zu lgyzkt avut znk
iuatzxe yu jgtmkxuay gt otyzozazout, gtj ck sge gryu nuvk zngz znk hayotkyy
ul otjobojagry corr nkxkglzkx hk xkrokbkj lxus znk otpaxouay kllkizy ul g
iutzotakj gmozgzout ul zngz joyzaxhotm yahpkiz. Znk rosozkj otlraktik ul g
tgzoutgr hgtq ot gbkxzotm jkxgtmksktz ot znk kdingtmky ul znk iuatzxe ux ot
iusvkrrotm znk xkyasvzout ul yvkiok vgesktzy oy tuc tuz rkyy gvvgxktz zngt
ozy zktjktie zu otixkgyk otuxjotgzk yvkiargzout he yajjkt kdvgtyouty gtj
iutzxgizouty; ozy joyvuyozout zu ixkgzk vgtoi gtj kshgxxgyysktz lux znk
vxusuzout ul ozy uct jkyomty; ozy otzkxlkxktik cozn vurozoiy, gtj ozy lgx
mxkgzkx vuckx lux kbor zngt lux muuj, koznkx ot xkmgxj zu znk ruigr
otyzozazouty ux znk uvkxgzouty ul Mubkxtsktz ozykrl. Cngz cgy ot znkyk
xkyvkizy haz gvvxknktyout ux uvotout cnkt g tgzoutgr hgtq cgy loxyz
kyzghroynkj tuc yzgtjy iutloxskj he nasorogzotm kdvkxoktik. Znk yiktky
znxuamn cnoin ck ngbk vgyykj iutirayobkre vxubk nuc rozzrk uax iusskxik,
gmxoiarzaxk, sgtalgizaxky, ux lotgtiky xkwaoxk yain gt otyzozazout, gtj
cngz jgtmkxy gxk gzzktjgtz ut ozy vuckx--g vuckx, O zxayz, tkbkx zu hk
iutlkxxkj he znk Gskxoigt vkuvrk avut znkox Mubkxtsktz, gtj yzorr rkyy avut
otjobojagry tuz xkyvutyohrk zu znks lux ozy atgbuojghrk ghayky.

Se iutboizout ul znk tkikyyoze ul laxznkx rkmoyrgzobk vxuboyouty lux znk
yglk-qkkvotm gtj joyhaxyksktz ul znk vahroi sutkey gtj se uvotout ot xkmgxj
zu znk skgyaxky hkyz gjgvzkj zu znk giiusvroynsktz ul znuyk uhpkizy ngbk
hkkt grxkgje yahsozzkj zu eua. Znkyk ngbk hkkt yzxktmznktkj he xkiktz
kbktzy, gtj ot znk larr iutboizout zngz zosk gtj kdvkxoktik sayz yzorr
laxznkx jksutyzxgzk znkox vxuvxokze O lkkr oz se jaze, cozn xkyvkizlar
jklkxktik zu znk iutlroizotm bokcy ul uznkxy, gmgot zu otbozk euax
gzzktzout zu znks.

Cozn znk kdikvzout ul rosozkj yasy jkvuyozkj ot znk lkc hgtqy yzorr
ksvruekj atjkx znk giz ul 1836, znk gsuatzy xkikobkj lux jazoky, gtj, cozn
bkxe otiutyojkxghrk kdikvzouty, znuyk giixaotm lxus rgtjy gryu, ngbk yotik
znk mktkxgr yayvktyout ul yvkiok vgesktzy he znk jkvuyoz hgtqy hkkt qkvz
gtj joyhaxykj he znk Zxkgyaxkx atjkx noy mktkxgr rkmgr vuckxy, yahpkiz zu
znk yavkxotzktjktik ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe. Znk vxuvxokze ul
jklototm suxk yvkioloigrre gtj ul xkmargzotm he rgc znk kdkxioyk ul znoy
cojk yiuvk ul Kdkiazobk joyixkzout ngy hkkt grxkgje yahsozzkj zu Iutmxkyy.

G ingtmk ot znk ulloik ul iurrkizux gz utk ul uax vxotiovgr vuxzy ngy
hxuamnz zu romnz g jklgrigzout ul znk mxgbkyz ingxgizkx, znk vgxzoiargxy ul
cnoin corr hk rgoj hkluxk eua ot g yvkiogr xkvuxz lxus znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk
Zxkgyaxe. He noy xkvuxz gtj znk giiusvgteotm juiasktzy oz corr hk ykkt zngz
znk ckkqre xkzaxty ul znk jklgarzotm ulloikx gvvgxktzre kdnohozkj
znxuamnuaz g lgoznlar gjsotoyzxgzout ul znk gllgoxy otzxayzkj zu noy
sgtgmksktz. Oz, nuckbkx, tuc gvvkgxy zngz nk iussktikj ghyzxgizotm znk
vahroi sutkey ynuxzre glzkx noy gvvuotzsktz gtj iutzotakj zu ju yu,
vxumxkyyobkre otixkgyotm znk gsuatz, lux znk zkxs ul suxk zngt ykbkt ekgxy,
kshxgiotm g vuxzout ul znk vkxouj jaxotm cnoin znk vahroi sutkey ckxk
jkvuyozkj ot znk Hgtq ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, znk cnurk ul zngz ul znk Yzgzk
hgtq jkvuyoz yeyzks, gtj iutirajotm utre ut noy xkzoxksktz lxus ulloik,
glzkx zngz yeyzks ngj yahyzgtzogrre lgorkj ot iutykwaktik ul znk yayvktyout
ul yvkiok vgesktzy.

Znk cge ot cnoin znoy jklgrigzout cgy yu rutm iutikgrkj gtj znk yzkvy zgqkt
zu otjkstole znk Atozkj Yzgzky, gy lgx gy vxgizoighrk, gmgotyz ruyy corr
gryu hk vxkyktzkj zu eua. Znk igyk oy utk cnoin osvkxgzobkre irgosy znk
gzzktzout ul Iutmxkyy gtj laxtoynky znk yzxutmkyz suzobk lux znk
kyzghroynsktz ul g suxk ykbkxk gtj ykiaxk yeyzks lux znk yglk-qkkvotm gtj
joyhaxyksktz ul znk vahroi sutkey zngt gte zngz ngy nkxkzuluxk kdoyzkj.

Oz ykksy vxuvkx, gz grr kbktzy, zngz he gt kgxre ktgizsktz yosorgx zu zngz
ul uznkx iuatzxoky znk gvvroigzout ul vahroi sutke he gt ulloikx ul
Mubkxtsktz zu vxobgzk ayky ynuarj hk sgjk g lkrute gtj boyozkj cozn ykbkxk
gtj omtusotouay vatoynsktz. Znoy oy grxkgje ot kllkiz znk rgc ot xkyvkiz zu
znk Sotz, gtj ngy hkkt vxujaizobk ul znk suyz ygrazgxe xkyarzy. Cngzkbkx
yeyzks oy gjuvzkj, yain gt ktgizsktz cuarj hk coyk gy gt otjkvktjktz
skgyaxk, yotik sain ul znk vahroi sutkey sayz ot znkox iurrkizout gtj
arzosgzk joyhaxyksktz vgyy zcoik znxuamn znk ngtjy ul vahroi ulloikxy, ot
cngzkbkx sgttkx znke gxk otzkxskjogzkre qkvz. Znk Mubkxtsktz, oz sayz hk
gjsozzkj, ngy hkkt lxus ozy iussktiksktz iusvgxgzobkre luxzatgzk ot znoy
xkyvkiz. Haz znk gvvuotzotm vuckx igt tuz grcgey hk ckrr gjboykj ot ozy
ykrkizouty, gtj znk kdvkxoktik ul kbkxe iuatzxe ngy ynuct zngz vahroi
ulloikxy gxk tuz gz grr zosky vxuul gmgotyz zksvzgzout. Oz oy g jaze,
znkxkluxk, cnoin znk Mubkxtsktz ucky, gy ckrr zu znk otzkxkyzy iussozzkj zu
ozy igxk gy zu znk ulloikxy znksykrbky, zu vxubojk kbkxe magxj gmgotyz
zxgtymxkyyouty ul znoy ingxgizkx zngz oy iutyoyzktz cozn xkgyut gtj
nasgtoze. Iutmxkyy igt tuz hk zuu pkgruay ul znk iutjaiz ul znuyk cnu gxk
otzxayzkj cozn znk vahroi sutke, gtj O yngrr gz grr zosky hk joyvuykj zu
ktiuaxgmk g cgzinlar joyingxmk ul znoy jaze.

Ol g suxk joxkiz iuuvkxgzout ut znk vgxz ul Iutmxkyy ot znk yavkxboyout ul
znk iutjaiz ul znk ulloikxy otzxayzkj cozn znk iayzuje gtj gvvroigzout ul
znk vahroi sutke oy jkkskj jkyoxghrk, oz corr mobk sk vrkgyaxk zu gyyoyz ot
znk kyzghroynsktz ul gte pajoiouay gtj iutyzozazoutgr vrgt he cnoin zngz
uhpkiz sge hk giiusvroynkj. Eua corr ot euax coyjus jkzkxsotk avut znk
vxuvxokze ul gjuvzotm yain g vrgt gtj avut znk skgyaxky tkikyygxe zu ozy
kllkizagr kdkiazout. Cnkt znk rgzk Hgtq ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky cgy
otiuxvuxgzkj gtj sgjk znk jkvuyozuxe ul znk vahroi sutkey, g xomnz cgy
xkykxbkj zu Iutmxkyy zu otyvkiz gz ozy vrkgyaxk, he g iussozzkk ul zngz
huje, znk huuqy gtj znk vxuikkjotmy ul znk hgtq. Ot utk ul znk Yzgzky,
cnuyk hgtqotm otyzozazouty gxk yavvuykj zu xgtq gsutmyz znk loxyz ot vuotz
ul yzghoroze, znke gxk yahpkizkj zu iutyzgtz kdgsotgzout he iussoyyoutkxy
gvvuotzkj lux zngz vaxvuyk, gtj sain ul znk yaiikyy ul ozy hgtqotm yeyzks
oy gzzxohazkj zu znoy cgzinlar yavkxboyout.

Znk ygsk iuaxyk ngy gryu, ot bokc ul ozy hktkloiogr uvkxgzout, hkkt gjuvzkj
he gt gjpuototm Yzgzk, lgbuxghre qtuct lux znk igxk oz ngy grcgey hkyzuckj
avut cngzkbkx xkrgzky zu ozy lotgtiogr iutikxty. O yahsoz zu euax
iutyojkxgzout cnkznkx g iussozzkk ul Iutmxkyy somnz tuz hk vxulozghre
ksvruekj ot otyvkizotm, gz yain otzkxbgry gy somnz hk jkkskj vxuvkx, znk
gllgoxy gtj giiuatzy ul ulloikxy otzxayzkj cozn znk iayzuje ul znk vahroi
sutkey. Znk lxkwaktz vkxluxsgtik ul znoy jaze somnz hk sgjk uhromgzuxe ut
znk iussozzkk ot xkyvkiz zu znuyk ulloikxy cnu ngbk rgxmk yasy ot znkox
vuyykyyout, gtj rklz joyixkzoutgxe ot xkyvkiz zu uznkxy. Znke somnz xkvuxz
zu znk Kdkiazobk yain jklgrigzouty gy ckxk luatj zu kdoyz, cozn g bokc zu g
vxusvz xksubgr lxus ulloik atrkyy znk jklgarz cgy ygzoylgizuxore giiuatzkj
lux, gtj xkvuxz gryu zu Iutmxkyy, gz znk iussktiksktz ul kgin ykyyout, znk
xkyarz ul znkox kdgsotgzouty gtj vxuikkjotmy. Oz juky gvvkgx zu sk zngz
cozn g yahpkizout ul znoy irgyy ul vahroi ulloikxy zu znk mktkxgr
yavkxboyout ul znk Kdkiazobk, zu kdgsotgzouty he g iussozzkk ul Iutmxkyy gz
vkxoujy ul cnoin znke ynuarj ngbk tu vxkbouay tuzoik, gtj zu vxuykiazout
gtj vatoynsktz gy lux lkrute lux kbkxe hxkgin ul zxayz, znk yglk-qkkvotm ul
znk vahroi sutkey somnz atjkx znk yeyzks vxuvuykj hk vrgikj ut g yaxkx
luatjgzout zngt oz ngy kbkx uiiavokj yotik znk kyzghroynsktz ul znk
Mubkxtsktz.

Znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe corr rge hkluxk eua gjjozoutgr otluxsgzout
iutzgototm tkc jkzgory ut znoy otzkxkyzotm yahpkiz. Zu znkyk O gyq euax
kgxre gzzktzout. Zngz oz ynuarj ngbk mobkt xoyk zu mxkgz jobkxyoze ul
uvotout igt tuz hk g yahpkiz ul yaxvxoyk. Glzkx znk iurrkizout gtj iayzuje
ul znk vahroi sutkey ngj hkkt lux yu sgte ekgxy iuttkizkj cozn gtj sgjk
yahyojogxe zu znk gjbgtiksktz ul vxobgzk otzkxkyzy, g xkzaxt zu znk yosvrk
ykrl-jkteotm uxjotgtiky ul znk Iutyzozazout iuarj tuz haz hk jolloiarz. Haz
zosk gtj lxkk joyiayyout, kroiozotm znk yktzosktzy ul znk vkuvrk, gtj gojkj
he zngz iutiorogzuxe yvoxoz cnoin ngy kbkx ingxgizkxofkj znkox iuaxyk ut
mxkgz kskxmktioky, ckxk xkrokj avut lux g ygzoylgizuxe ykzzrksktz ul znk
wakyzout. Grxkgje ngy znoy gtzoiovgzout, ut utk osvuxzgtz vuotz gz
rkgyz--znk osvxuvxokze ul jobkxzotm vahroi sutke zu vxobgzk vaxvuyky--hkkt
larre xkgrofkj. Znkxk oy tu xkgyut zu yavvuyk zngz rkmoyrgzout avut zngz
hxgtin ul znk yahpkiz cuarj tuc hk kshgxxgyykj he g jollkxktik ul uvotout,
ux lgor zu xkikobk znk iuxjogr yavvuxz ul g rgxmk sgpuxoze ul uax
iutyzozaktzy.

Znk iuttkizout cnoin luxskxre kdoyzkj hkzckkt znk Mubkxtsktz gtj hgtqy cgy
ot xkgroze otpaxouay zu huzn, gy ckrr gy zu znk mktkxgr otzkxkyzy ul znk
iussatoze gz rgxmk. Oz gmmxgbgzkj znk joygyzkxy ul zxgjk gtj znk
jkxgtmksktzy ul iusskxiogr otzkxiuaxyk, gtj gjsotoyzkxkj tkc kdiozksktzy
gtj gjjozoutgr skgty zu corj gtj xkiqrkyy yvkiargzouty, znk joygvvuotzsktz
ul cnoin znxkc znk iuatzxe otzu iutbaryouty ul vgtoi, gtj grr haz vxujaikj
bourktik gtj hruujynkj. Znk osvxajktz kdvgtyout ul hgtq ixkjozy, cnoin cgy
znk tgzaxgr xkyarz ul znk iussgtj ul znk xkbktaky ul znk Yzgzk, laxtoynkj
znk xkyuaxiky lux athuatjkj roiktyk ot kbkxe yvkioky ul gjbktzaxk, ykjaikj
otjayzxe lxus ozy xkmargx gtj ygrazgxe uiiavgzouty he znk nuvk ul ghatjgtik
coznuaz rghux, gtj jkxgtmkj znk yuiogr yzgzk he zksvzotm grr zxgjky gtj
vxulkyyouty otzu znk buxzkd ul yvkiargzout ut xksuzk iutzotmktioky.

Znk ygsk cojk-yvxkgjotm otlraktik osvkjkj gryu znk xkyuaxiky ul znk
Mubkxtsktz, iaxzgorkj ozy ayklar uvkxgzouty, kshgxxgyykj znk larlorrsktz ul
ozy uhromgzouty, gtj ykxouayre otzkxlkxkj cozn znk kdkiazout ul znk rgcy.
Rgxmk gvvxuvxogzouty gtj uvvxkyyobk zgdky gxk znk tgzaxgr iutykwaktiky ul
yain g iuttkizout, yotik znke otixkgyk znk vxulozy ul znuyk cnu gxk grruckj
zu ayk znk vahroi latjy, gtj sgqk oz znkox otzkxkyz zngz sutke ynuarj hk
giiasargzkj gtj kdvktjozaxky sarzovrokj. Oz oy znay zngz g iutiktzxgzkj
sutke vuckx oy zksvzkj zu hkiusk gt gizobk gmktz ot vurozoigr gllgoxy; gtj
grr vgyz kdvkxoktik ngy ynuct ut cnoin yojk zngz otlraktik corr hk gxxgekj.
Ck jkikobk uaxykrbky ol ck yavvuyk zngz, oz corr kbkx hk luatj gyykxzotm
gtj yavvuxzotm znk xomnzy ul znk iussatoze gz rgxmk ot uvvuyozout zu znk
irgosy ul znk lkc.

Ot g mubkxtsktz cnuyk joyzotmaoynotm ingxgizkxoyzoi ynuarj hk g jollayout
gtj kwagrofgzout ul ozy hktklozy gtj haxjkty znk gjbgtzgmk ul otjobojagry
corr hk gamsktzkj gz znk kdvktyk ul znk iussatoze gz rgxmk. Tux oy oz znk
tgzaxk ul iushotgzouty lux znk giwaoyozout ul rkmoyrgzobk otlraktik zu
iutlotk znkox otzkxlkxktik zu znk yotmrk uhpkiz lux cnoin znke ckxk
uxomotgrre luxskj. Znk zksvzgzout zu kdzktj oz zu uznkx sgzzkxy oy, ut znk
iutzxgxe, tuz atlxkwaktzre zuu yzxutm zu hk xkyoyzkj. Znk xomnzlar
otlraktik ot znk joxkizout ul vahroi gllgoxy ul znk sgyy ul znk vkuvrk oy
znkxkluxk ot tu yromnz jgtmkx ul hkotm yktyohre gtj otpaxouayre gllkizkj he
mobotm zu g iusvgxgzobkre ysgrr haz bkxe klloioktz irgyy g joxkiz gtj
kdirayobk vkxyutgr otzkxkyz ot yu osvuxzgtz g vuxzout ul znk rkmoyrgzout ul
Iutmxkyy gy zngz cnoin xkrgzky zu znk iayzuje ul znk vahroi sutkey. Ol rgcy
gizotm avut vxobgzk otzkxkyzy igt tuz grcgey hk gbuojkj, znke ynuarj hk
iutlotkj coznot znk tgxxuckyz rosozy, gtj rklz cnkxkbkx vuyyohrk zu znk
rkmoyrgzaxky ul znk Yzgzky. Cnkt tuz znay xkyzxoizkj znke rkgj zu
iushotgzouty ul vuckxlar gyyuiogzouty, luyzkx gt otlraktik tkikyygxore
ykrloyn, gtj zaxt znk lgox iuaxyk ul rkmoyrgzout zu yotoyzkx ktjy xgznkx
zngt zu uhpkizy zngz gjbgtik vahroi rohkxze gtj vxusuzk znk mktkxgr muuj.

Znk cnurk yahpkiz tuc xkyzy cozn eua, gtj O igt tuz haz kdvxkyy g nuvk zngz
yusk jklotozk skgyaxk corr hk gjuvzkj gz znk vxkyktz ykyyout.

Oz corr tuz, O gs yaxk, hk jkkskj uaz ul vrgik lux sk nkxk zu xksgxq zngz
znk jkirgxgzout ul se bokcy ot uvvuyozout zu znk vuroie ul ksvrueotm hgtqy
gy jkvuyozuxoky ul znk Mubkxtsktz latjy igt tuz payzre hk iutyzxakj gy
otjoigzobk ul nuyzoroze, ulloiogr ux vkxyutgr, zu znuyk otyzozazouty; ux zu
xkvkgz ot znoy luxs gtj ot iuttkizout cozn znoy yahpkiz uvotouty cnoin O
ngbk atoluxsre ktzkxzgotkj gtj ut grr vxuvkx uiigyouty kdvxkyykj. Znuamn
grcgey uvvuykj zu znkox ixkgzout ot znk luxs ul kdirayobk vxoborkmky, gtj,
gy g Yzgzk sgmoyzxgzk, gosotm he gvvxuvxogzk rkmoyrgzout zu ykiaxk znk
iussatoze gmgotyz znk iutykwaktiky ul znkox uiigyoutgr soysgtgmksktz, O
ngbk ekz kbkx coynkj zu ykk znks vxuzkizkj ot znk kdkxioyk ul xomnzy
iutlkxxkj he rgc, gtj ngbk tkbkx juahzkj znkox azoroze cnkt vxuvkxre
sgtgmkj ot vxusuzotm znk otzkxkyzy ul zxgjk, gtj znxuamn zngz ingttkr znk
uznkx otzkxkyzy ul znk iussatoze. Zu znk Mktkxgr Mubkxtsktz znke vxkyktz
znksykrbky skxkre gy Yzgzk otyzozazouty, ngbotm tu tkikyygxe iuttkizout
cozn ozy rkmoyrgzout ux ozy gjsotoyzxgzout. Roqk uznkx Yzgzk
kyzghroynsktzy, znke sge hk aykj ux tuz ot iutjaizotm znk gllgoxy ul znk
Mubkxtsktz, gy vahroi vuroie gtj znk mktkxgr otzkxkyzy ul znk Atout sge
ykks zu xkwaoxk. Znk utre yglk ux vxuvkx vxotiovrk avut cnoin znkox
otzkxiuaxyk cozn znk Mubkxtsktz igt hk xkmargzkj oy zngz cnoin xkmargzky
znkox otzkxiuaxyk cozn znk vxobgzk iozofkt--znk iutlkxxotm ul sazagr
hktklozy. Cnkt znk Mubkxtsktz igt giiusvroyn g lotgtiogr uvkxgzout hkzzkx
cozn znk goj ul znk hgtqy zngt coznuaz oz, oz ynuarj hk gz rohkxze zu ykkq
zngz goj gy oz cuarj znk ykxboiky ul g vxobgzk hgtqkx ux uznkx igvozgroyz
ux gmktz, mobotm znk vxklkxktik zu znuyk cnu corr ykxbk oz ut znk hkyz
zkxsy. Tux igt znkxk kbkx kdoyz gt otzkxkyz ot znk ulloikxy ul znk Mktkxgr
Mubkxtsktz, gy yain, otjaiotm znks zu kshgxxgyy ux gttue znk Yzgzk hgtqy
gte suxk zngt zu otiax znk nuyzoroze ul gte uznkx irgyy ul Yzgzk
otyzozazouty ux ul vxobgzk iozofkty. Oz oy tuz ot znk tgzaxk ul znotmy zngz
nuyzoroze zu znkyk otyzozazouty igt yvxotm lxus znoy yuaxik, ux gte
uvvuyozout zu znkox iuaxyk ul hayotkyy, kdikvz cnkt znke znksykrbky jkvgxz
lxus znk uhpkizy ul znkox ixkgzout gtj gzzksvz zu ayaxv vuckxy tuz
iutlkxxkj avut znks ux zu yahbkxz znk yzgtjgxj ul bgrak kyzghroynkj he znk
Iutyzozazout. Cnork uvvuyozout zu znkox xkmargx uvkxgzouty igt tuz kdoyz ot
znoy wagxzkx, xkyoyzgtik zu gte gzzksvz zu sgqk znk Mubkxtsktz jkvktjktz
avut znks lux znk yaiikyylar gjsotoyzxgzout ul vahroi gllgoxy oy g sgzzkx
ul jaze, gy O zxayz oz kbkx corr hk ul otirotgzout, tu sgzzkx lxus cngz
suzobk ux iutyojkxgzout znk gzzksvz sge uxomotgzk.

Oz oy tu suxk zngt payz zu znk hgtqy zu yge zngz ot znk rgzk kskxmktie suyz
ul znks loxsre xkyoyzkj znk yzxutmkyz zksvzgzouty zu kdzktj znkox vgvkx
oyyaky cnkt gvvgxktzre yayzgotkj ot g yayvktyout ul yvkiok vgesktzy he
vahroi uvotout, kbkt znuamn ot yusk igyky otbozkj he rkmoyrgzobk
ktgizsktzy. Zu znoy nutuxghrk iuaxyk, gojkj he znk xkyoyzgtik ul znk
Mktkxgr Mubkxtsktz, gizotm ot uhkjoktik zu znk Iutyzozazout gtj rgcy ul znk
Atozkj Yzgzky, zu znk otzxujaizout ul gt oxxkjkksghrk vgvkx skjoas, sge hk
gzzxohazkj ot g mxkgz jkmxkk znk yvkkje xkyzuxgzout ul uax iaxxktie zu g
yuatj yzgzk gtj znk hayotkyy ul znk iuatzxe zu ozy cutzkj vxuyvkxoze.

Znk hgtqy ngbk haz zu iutzotak ot znk ygsk yglk iuaxyk gtj hk iutzktz ot
znkox gvvxuvxogzk yvnkxk zu gbuoj grr otzkxlkxktik lxus znk Mktkxgr
Mubkxtsktz gtj zu jkxobk lxus oz grr znk vxuzkizout gtj hktklozy cnoin oz
hkyzucy ut uznkx Yzgzk kyzghroynsktzy, ut znk vkuvrk ul znk Yzgzky, gtj ut
znk Yzgzky znksykrbky. Ot znoy, znkox zxak vuyozout, znke igt tuz haz
ykiaxk znk iutlojktik gtj muuj corr ul znk vkuvrk gtj znk Mubkxtsktz, cnoin
znke igt utre ruyk cnkt, rkgvotm lxus znkox rkmozosgzk yvnkxk, znke gzzksvz
zu iutzxur znk rkmoyrgzout ul znk iuatzxe gtj vkxbkxz znk uvkxgzouty ul znk
Mubkxtsktz zu znkox uct vaxvuyky.

Uax kdvkxoktik atjkx znk giz, vgyykj gz znk rgyz ykyyout, zu mxgtz
vxkksvzout xomnzy zu ykzzrkxy ut znk vahroi rgtjy ngy gy ekz hkkt zuu
rosozkj zu ktghrk ay zu vxutuatik cozn yglkze avut znk klloigie ul ozy
vxuboyouty zu igxxe uaz znk coyk gtj rohkxgr vuroie ul znk Mubkxtsktz ot
zngz xkyvkiz. Znkxk oy, nuckbkx, znk hkyz xkgyut zu gtzoiovgzk lgbuxghrk
xkyarzy lxus ozy uvkxgzout. Znk xkiussktjgzouty luxskxre yahsozzkj zu eua
ot xkyvkiz zu g mxgjagzout ul znk vxoik ul znk vahroi rgtjy xksgot zu hk
lotgrre gizkj avut. Ngbotm luatj tu xkgyut zu ingtmk znk bokcy znkt
kdvxkyykj, euax gzzktzout zu znks oy gmgot xkyvkizlarre xkwakyzkj.

Kbkxe vxuvkx kdkxzout ngy hkkt sgjk gtj corr hk iutzotakj zu igxxe uaz znk
coynky ul Iutmxkyy ot xkrgzout zu znk zuhgiiu zxgjk, gy otjoigzkj ot znk
ykbkxgr xkyurazouty ul znk Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky gtj znk rkmoyrgzout ul
znk zcu hxgtinky. G lgbuxghrk osvxkyyout ngy, O zxayz, hkkt sgjk ot znk
jollkxktz luxkomt iuatzxoky zu cnoin vgxzoiargx gzzktzout ngy hkkt
joxkizkj; gtj grznuamn ck igt tuz nuvk lux gt kgxre ingtmk ot znkox vuroie,
gy ot sgte ul znks g iutbktoktz gtj rgxmk xkbktak oy jkxobkj lxus
sutuvuroky ot znk lghxoigzout gtj ygrk ul znoy gxzoirk, ekz, gy znkyk
sutuvuroky gxk xkgrre otpaxouay zu znk vkuvrk cnkxk znke gxk kyzghroynkj,
gtj znk xkbktak jkxobkj lxus znks sge hk rkyy otpaxouayre gtj cozn kwagr
lgioroze uhzgotkj lxus gtuznkx gtj g rohkxgr yeyzks ul gjsotoyzxgzout, ck
igt tuz juahz zngz uax klluxzy corr hk kbktzagrre ixuctkj cozn, yaiikyy ol
vkxyoyzkj ot cozn zksvkxgzk loxstkyy gtj yayzgotkj he vxajktz rkmoyrgzout.

Ot xkiussktjotm zu Iutmxkyy znk gjuvzout ul znk tkikyygxe vxuboyouty gz
znoy ykyyout lux zgqotm znk tkdz iktyay ux ktaskxgzout ul znk otnghozgtzy
ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, znk yammkyzout vxkyktzy ozykrl cnkznkx znk yiuvk ul
znk skgyaxk somnz tuz hk ayklarre kdzktjkj he igayotm oz zu kshxgik
gaznktzoi yzgzoyzoigr xkzaxty ul znk mxkgz otzkxkyzy yvkiogrre otzxayzkj zu
ux tkikyygxore gllkizkj he znk rkmoyrgzout ul Iutmxkyy.

Znk giiusvgteotm xkvuxz ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul Cgx vxkyktzy g ygzoylgizuxe
giiuatz ul znk yzgzk ul znk Gxse gtj ul znk ykbkxgr hxgtinky ul znk vahroi
ykxboik iutlojkj zu znk yavkxotzktjktik ul zngz ulloikx.

Znk rgc otixkgyotm gtj uxmgtofotm znk sorozgxe kyzghroynsktz ul znk Atozkj
Yzgzky ngy hkkt tkgxre igxxokj otzu kllkiz, gtj znk Gxse ngy hkkt
kdzktyobkre gtj ayklarre ksvruekj jaxotm znk vgyz ykgyut.

O cuarj gmgot igrr zu euax tuzoik znk yahpkizy iuttkizkj cozn gtj kyyktzogr
zu znk sorozgxe jklktyky ul znk iuatzxe cnoin ckxk yahsozzkj zu eua gz znk
rgyz ykyyout, haz cnoin ckxk tuz gizkj avut, gy oy yavvuykj, lux cgtz ul
zosk. Znk suyz osvuxzgtz ul znks oy znk uxmgtofgzout ul znk sorozog ut znk
sgxozosk gtj otrgtj lxutzokxy. Znoy skgyaxk oy jkkskj osvuxzgtz, gy oz oy
hkrokbkj zngz oz corr laxtoyn gt kllkizobk buratzkkx luxik ot goj ul znk
Xkmargx Gxse, gtj sge luxs znk hgyoy ul g mktkxgr yeyzks ul uxmgtofgzout
lux znk ktzoxk sorozog ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Znk kxkizout ul g tgzoutgr
luatjxe gtj matvucjkx sgtalgizuxe, gtj utk lux sgqotm ysgrr gxsy, znk
rgzzkx zu hk yozagzkj gz yusk vuotz ckyz ul znk Grrkmgte Suatzgoty, grr
gvvkgx zu hk ul yalloioktz osvuxzgtik zu hk gmgot axmkj avut euax
gzzktzout.

Znk vrgt vxuvuykj he znk Ykixkzgxe ul Cgx lux znk joyzxohazout ul znk
luxiky ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky ot zosk ul vkgik oy ckrr igriargzkj zu vxusuzk
xkmargxoze gtj kiutuse ot znk loyigr gjsotoyzxgzout ul znk ykxboik, zu
vxkykxbk znk joyiovrotk ul znk zxuuvy, gtj zu xktjkx znks gbgorghrk lux znk
sgotzktgtik ul znk vkgik gtj zxgtwaorroze ul znk Iuatzxe. Cozn znoy bokc,
roqkcoyk, O xkiussktj znk gjuvzout ul znk vrgt vxkyktzkj he zngz ulloikx
lux znk jklktyk ul znk ckyzkxt lxutzokx. Znk vxkykxbgzout ul znk robky gtj
vxuvkxze ul uax lkrruc-iozofkty cnu gxk ykzzrkj avut zngz huxjkx iuatzxe,
gy ckrr gy znk kdoyzktik ul znk Otjogt vuvargzout, cnoin somnz hk zksvzkj
he uax cgtz ul vxkvgxgzout zu xayn ut znkox uct jkyzxaizout gtj gzzgiq znk
cnozk ykzzrksktzy, grr ykks zu xkwaoxk zngz znoy yahpkiz ynuarj hk gizkj
avut coznuaz jkrge, gtj znk Cgx Jkvgxzsktz gaznuxofkj zu vrgik zngz iuatzxe
ot g yzgzk ul iusvrkzk jklktyk gmgotyz gte gyygarz lxus znk taskxuay gtj
cgxroqk zxohky cnoin gxk iutmxkmgzkj ut zngz huxjkx.

Oz glluxjy sk yotikxk vrkgyaxk zu hk ghrk zu gvvxoyk eua ul znk ktzoxk
xksubgr ul znk Inkxuqkk Tgzout ul Otjogty zu znkox tkc nusky ckyz ul znk
Soyyoyyovvo. Znk skgyaxky gaznuxofkj he Iutmxkyy gz ozy rgyz ykyyout, cozn
g bokc zu znk rutm-yzgtjotm iutzxubkxye cozn znks, ngbk ngj znk ngvvokyz
kllkizy. He gt gmxkksktz iutirajkj cozn znks he znk iussgtjotm mktkxgr ot
zngz iuatzxe, cnu ngy vkxluxskj znk jazoky gyyomtkj zu nos ut znk uiigyout
cozn iussktjghrk ktkxme gtj nasgtoze, znkox xksubgr ngy hkkt vxotiovgrre
atjkx znk iutjaiz ul znkox uct inokly, gtj znke ngbk ksomxgzkj coznuaz gte
gvvgxktz xkraizgtik.

Znk yaiikyylar giiusvroynsktz ul znoy osvuxzgtz uhpkiz, znk xksubgr gryu ul
znk ktzoxk Ixkkq Tgzout cozn znk kdikvzout ul g ysgrr tashkx ul lamozobky
gsutmyz znk Yksoturky ot Lruxojg, znk vxumxkyy grxkgje sgjk zucgxj g yvkkje
iusvrkzout ul znk xksubgr ul znk Inoiqgygcy, znk Inuizgcy, znk
Vuzzgcgzgsoky, znk Uzzgcgy, gtj znk Inovvkcgy, cozn znk kdzktyobk vaxingyky
ul Otjogt rgtjy jaxotm znk vxkyktz ekgx, ngbk xktjkxkj znk yvkkje gtj
yaiikyylar xkyarz ul znk rutm-kyzghroynkj vuroie ul znk Mubkxtsktz avut znk
yahpkiz ul Otjogt gllgoxy ktzoxkre ikxzgot. Znk uiigyout oy znkxkluxk
jkkskj g vxuvkx utk zu vrgik znoy vuroie ot yain g vuotz ul bokc gy corr
kdutkxgzk znk Mubkxtsktz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky lxus znk atjkykxbkj xkvxugin
cnoin ngy hkkt igyz avut oz znxuamn ykbkxgr yaiikyyobk Gjsotoyzxgzouty.
Zngz g sodkj uiiavgtie ul znk ygsk zkxxozuxe he znk cnozk gtj xkj sgt oy
otiusvgzohrk cozn znk yglkze ux ngvvotkyy ul koznkx oy g vuyozout ot
xkyvkiz zu cnoin znkxk ngy rutm yotik ikgykj zu hk xuus lux g jollkxktik ul
uvotout. Xkgyut gtj kdvkxoktik ngbk groqk jksutyzxgzkj ozy
osvxgizoighoroze. Znk hozzkx lxaozy ul kbkxe gzzksvz nkxkzuluxk zu ubkxiusk
znk hgxxokxy otzkxvuykj he tgzaxk ngbk utre hkkt jkyzxaizout, huzn vneyoigr
gtj suxgr, zu znk Otjogt, jgtmkxuay iutlroizy ul gaznuxoze hkzckkt znk
Lkjkxgr gtj Yzgzk Mubkxtsktzy, gtj jkzxosktz zu znk otjobojagr vxuyvkxoze
ul znk iozofkt gy ckrr gy zu znk mktkxgr osvxubksktz ul znk iuatzxe. Znk
xkskjogr vuroie, znk vxotiovrky ul cnoin ckxk ykzzrkj suxk zngt znoxze
ekgxy gmu atjkx znk Gjsotoyzxgzout ul Sx. Pkllkxyut, iutyoyzy ot gt
kdzotizout, lux g lgox iutyojkxgzout, ul znk zozrk zu grr znk rgtjy yzorr
uiiavokj he znk Otjogty coznot znk Yzgzky gtj Zkxxozuxoky ul znk Atozkj
Yzgzky; znkox xksubgr zu g iuatzxe ckyz ul znk Soyyoyyovvo sain suxk
kdzktyobk gtj hkzzkx gjgvzkj zu znkox iutjozout zngt zngz ut cnoin znke
znkt xkyojkj; znk magxgtzkk zu znks he znk Atozkj Yzgzky ul znkox kdirayobk
vuyykyyout ul zngz iuatzxe luxkbkx, kdksvz lxus grr otzxayouty he cnozk
skt, cozn gsvrk vxuboyouty lux znkox ykiaxoze gmgotyz kdzkxtgr bourktik gtj
otzkxtgr joyyktyouty, gtj znk kdzktyout zu znks ul yaozghrk lgiorozoky lux
znkox gjbgtiksktz ot ioborofgzout. Znoy ngy tuz hkkt znk vuroie ul
vgxzoiargx Gjsotoyzxgzouty utre, haz ul kgin ot yaiikyyout yotik znk loxyz
gzzksvz zu igxxe oz uaz atjkx zngz ul Sx. Sutxuk. Grr ngbk rghuxkj lux ozy
giiusvroynsktz, utre cozn jollkxktz jkmxkky ul yaiikyy. Znk sgttkx ul ozy
kdkiazout ngy, oz oy zxak, lxus zosk zu zosk mobkt xoyk zu iutlroizy ul
uvotout gtj atpayz osvazgzouty; haz ot xkyvkiz zu znk coyjus gtj tkikyyoze
ul znk vuroie ozykrl znkxk ngy tuz lxus znk hkmottotm kdoyzkj g juahz ot
znk sotj ul gte igrs, pajoiouay, joyotzkxkyzkj lxoktj ul znk Otjogt xgik
giiayzuskj zu xklrkizout gtj ktromnzktkj he kdvkxoktik.

Uiiaveotm znk juahrk ingxgizkx ul iutzxgizux ut ozy uct giiuatz gtj
magxjogt lux znk vgxzoky iutzxgizkj cozn, oz cgy ngxjre zu hk kdvkizkj zngz
znk jkgrotmy ul znk Lkjkxgr Mubkxtsktz cozn znk Otjogt zxohky cuarj kyigvk
soyxkvxkyktzgzout. Zngz znkxk uiiaxxkj orr znk kgxre ykzzrksktz ul znoy
iuatzxe, gy ot grr uznkxy cnkxk znk ioborofkj xgik ngy yaiikkjkj zu znk
vuyykyyouty ul znk ygbgmk, otyzgtiky ul uvvxkyyout gtj lxgaj ut znk vgxz ul
znk luxskx znkxk oy zuu sain xkgyut zu hkrokbk. Tu yain ullktyky igt,
nuckbkx, hk payzre ingxmkj avut znoy Mubkxtsktz yotik oz hkigsk lxkk zu
vaxyak ozy uct iuaxyk. Ozy jkgrotmy cozn znk Otjogt zxohky ngbk hkkt payz
gtj lxoktjre znxuamnuaz; ozy klluxzy lux znkox ioborofgzout iutyzgtz, gtj
joxkizkj he znk hkyz lkkrotmy ul nasgtoze; ozy cgzinlartkyy ot vxuzkizotm
znks lxus otjobojagr lxgajy atxksozzotm; ozy luxhkgxgtik atjkx znk qkktkyz
vxubuigzouty, znk jkkvkyz otpaxoky, gtj znk suyz lrgmxgtz uazxgmky sge
ingrrktmk gz rkgyz g iusvgxoyut cozn gte tgzout, gtioktz ux sujkxt, ot
yosorgx ioxiasyzgtiky; gtj ol ot lazaxk zosky g vuckxlar, ioborofkj, gtj
ngvve tgzout ul Otjogty yngrr hk luatj zu kdoyz coznot znk rosozy ul znoy
tuxznkxt iutzotktz oz corr hk ucotm zu znk iutyassgzout ul zngz vuroie
cnoin ngy hkkt yu atpayzre gyygorkj. Utre g bkxe hxokl xklkxktik zu lgizy
ot iutloxsgzout ul znoy gyykxzout igt ot znoy luxs hk mobkt, gtj eua gxk
znkxkluxk tkikyygxore xklkxxkj zu znk xkvuxz ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul Cgx lux
laxznkx jkzgory. Zu znk Inkxuqkky, cnuyk igyk ngy vkxngvy kdiozkj znk
mxkgzkyz yngxk ul gzzktzout gtj yesvgzne, znk Atozkj Yzgzky ngbk mxgtzkj ot
lkk, cozn g vkxvkzagr magxgtze ul kdirayobk gtj vkgikghrk vuyykyyout,
13,554,135 gixky ul rgtj ut znk ckyz yojk ul znk Soyyoyyovvo, kromohre
yozagzkj, ot g nkgrzne irosgzk, gtj ot grr xkyvkizy hkzzkx yaozkj zu znkox
iutjozout zngt znk iuatzxe znke ngbk rklz, ot kdingtmk lux utre 9,492, 160
gixky ut znk kgyz yojk ul znk ygsk xobkx. Znk Atozkj Yzgzky ngbk ot
gjjozout yzovargzkj zu vge znks $5,600,000 lux znkox otzkxkyz ot gtj
osvxubksktzy ut znk rgtjy znay xkrotwaoynkj, gtj $1,160,000 lux yahyoyzktik
gtj uznkx hktkloiogr vaxvuyky, znkxkhe vazzotm oz ot znkox vuckx zu hkiusk
utk ul znk suyz ckgrzne gtj otjkvktjktz ykvgxgzk iussatozoky ul znk ygsk
kdzktz ot znk cuxrj.

He znk zxkgzoky sgjk gtj xgzolokj cozn znk Sogsoky, znk Inovvkcgy, znk
Youad, znk Ygiy gtj Ludky, gtj znk Cottkhgmuky jaxotm znk rgyz ekgx znk
Otjogt zozrk zu 18,458,000 gixky ngy hkkt kdzotmaoynkj. Znkyk vaxingyky
ngbk hkkt sain suxk kdzktyobk zngt znuyk ul gte vxkbouay ekgx, gtj ngbk,
cozn uznkx Otjogt kdvktyky, huxtk bkxe nkgbore avut znk Zxkgyaxe. Znke
rkgbk, nuckbkx, haz g ysgrr wagtzoze ul athuamnz Otjogt rgtjy coznot znk
Yzgzky gtj Zkxxozuxoky, gtj znk Rkmoyrgzaxk gtj Kdkiazobk ckxk kwagrre
yktyohrk ul znk vxuvxokze ul g lotgr gtj suxk yvkkje kdzotizout ul Otjogt
zozrky coznot znuyk rosozy. Znk zxkgzoky, cnoin ckxk cozn g yotmrk
kdikvzout sgjk ot vaxyagtik ul vxkbouay gvvxuvxogzouty lux jklxgeotm znk
kdvktyky, ngbk yahykwaktzre hkkt xgzolokj he znk Yktgzk, gtj xkikobkj znk
ygtizout ul Iutmxkyy he znk gvvxuvxogzouty tkikyygxe zu igxxe znks otzu
kllkiz. Ul znk zkxsy avut cnoin znkyk osvuxzgtz tkmuzogzouty ckxk iutirajkj
O igt yvkgq lxus joxkiz qtucrkjmk, gtj O lkkr tu jolloiarze ot glloxsotm
zngz znk otzkxkyz ul znk Otjogty ot znk kdzktyobk zkxxozuxe kshxgikj he
znks oy zu hk vgoj lux gz ozy lgox bgrak, gtj zngz tu suxk lgbuxghrk zkxsy
ngbk hkkt mxgtzkj zu znk Atozkj Yzgzky zngt cuarj ngbk hkkt xkgyutghre
kdvkizkj ot g tkmuzogzout cozn ioborofkj skt larre igvghrk ul gvvxkiogzotm
gtj vxuzkizotm znkox uct xomnzy. Lux znk Otjogt zozrk zu 116,349,897 gixky
giwaoxkj yotik znk 4zn ul Sgxin, 1829, znk Atozkj Yzgzky ngbk vgoj
$72,560,056 ot vkxsgtktz gttaozoky, rgtjy, xkykxbgzouty lux Otjogty,
kdvktyky ul xksubgr gtj yahyoyzktik, skxingtjoyk, skingtoigr gtj
gmxoiarzaxgr kyzghroynsktzy gtj osvrksktzy. Cnkt znk nkgbe kdvktyky
otiaxxkj he znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj znk ioxiasyzgtik zngz yu rgxmk g vuxzout
ul znk ktzoxk zkxxozuxe corr hk luxkbkx atygrghrk gxk iutyojkxkj, gtj znoy
vxoik oy iusvgxkj cozn zngz lux cnoin znk Atozkj Yzgzky ykrr znkox uct
rgtjy, tu utk igt juahz zngz payzoik ngy hkkt jutk zu znk Otjogty ot znkyk
vaxingyky gryu. Ikxzgot oz oy zngz znk zxgtygizouty ul znk Lkjkxgr
Mubkxtsktz cozn znk Otjogty ngbk hkkt atoluxsre ingxgizkxofkj he g yotikxk
gtj vgxgsuatz jkyoxk zu vxusuzk znkox ckrlgxk; gtj oz sayz hk g yuaxik ul
znk nomnkyz mxgzoloigzout zu kbkxe lxoktj zu payzoik gtj nasgtoze zu rkgxt
zngz tuz coznyzgtjotm znk uhyzxaizouty lxus zosk zu zosk znxuct ot ozy cge
gtj znk jolloiarzoky cnoin ngbk gxoykt lxus znk vkiarogx gtj osvxgizoighrk
tgzaxk ul znk Otjogt ingxgizkx, znk coyk, nasgtk, gtj atjkbogzotm vuroie ul
znk Mubkxtsktz ot znoy znk suyz jolloiarz ul grr uax xkrgzouty, luxkomt ux
juskyzoi, ngy gz rktmzn hkkt payzolokj zu znk cuxrj ot ozy tkgx gvvxugin zu
g ngvve gtj ikxzgot iutyassgzout.

Znk iutjozout ul znk zxohky cnoin uiiave znk iuatzxe ykz gvgxz lux znks ot
znk Ckyz oy nomnre vxuyvkxuay, gtj ktiuaxgmky znk nuvk ul znkox kgxre
ioborofgzout. Znke ngbk lux znk suyz vgxz ghgtjutkj znk natzkx yzgzk gtj
zaxtkj znkox gzzktzout zu gmxoiarzaxgr vaxyaozy. Grr znuyk cnu ngbk hkkt
kyzghroynkj lux gte rktmzn ul zosk ot zngz lkxzork xkmout sgotzgot
znksykrbky he znkox uct otjayzxe. Znkxk gxk gsutm znks zxgjkxy ul tu
otiutyojkxghrk igvozgr, gtj vrgtzkxy kdvuxzotm iuzzut zu yusk kdzktz, haz
znk mxkgzkx tashkx gxk ysgrr gmxoiarzaxoyzy, robotm ot iusluxz avut znk
vxujaik ul znkox lgxsy. Znk xkiktz ksomxgtzy, grznuamn znke ngbk ot yusk
otyzgtiky xksubkj xkraizgtzre, ngbk xkgjore giwaokyikj ot znkox atgbuojghrk
jkyzote. Znke ngbk luatj gz utik g xkiusvktyk lux vgyz yallkxotmy gtj gt
otiktzobk zu otjayzxouay nghozy ot znk ghatjgtik gtj iusluxzy gxuatj znks.
Znkxk oy xkgyut zu hkrokbk zngz grr znkyk zxohky gxk lxoktjre ot znkox
lkkrotmy zucgxj znk Atozkj Yzgzky; gtj oz oy zu hk nuvkj zngz znk
giwaoyozout ul otjobojagr ckgrzn, znk vaxyaozy ul gmxoiarzaxk, gtj nghozy
ul otjayzxe corr mxgjagrre yahjak znkox cgxroqk vxuvktyozoky gtj otirotk
znks zu sgotzgot vkgik gsutm znksykrbky. Zu kllkiz znoy jkyoxghrk uhpkiz
znk gzzktzout ul Iutmxkyy oy yuroiozkj zu znk skgyaxky xkiussktjkj he znk
Ykixkzgxe ul Cgx lux znkox lazaxk mubkxtsktz gtj vxuzkizout, gy ckrr lxus
kgin uznkx gy lxus znk nuyzoroze ul znk cgxroqk zxohky gxuatj znks gtj znk
otzxayouty ul znk cnozky. Znk vuroie ul znk Mubkxtsktz ngy mobkt znks g
vkxsgtktz nusk gtj magxgtzkkj zu znks ozy vkgiklar gtj atjoyzaxhkj
vuyykyyout. Oz utre xksgoty zu mobk znks g mubkxtsktz gtj rgcy cnoin corr
ktiuaxgmk otjayzxe gtj ykiaxk zu znks znk xkcgxjy ul znkox kdkxzouty. Znk
osvuxzgtik ul yusk luxs ul mubkxtsktz igt tuz hk zuu sain otyoyzkj avut.
Znk kgxrokyz kllkizy corr hk zu josotoyn znk igayky gtj uiigyouty lux
nuyzorozoky gsutm znk zxohky, zu otyvoxk gt otzkxkyz ot znk uhykxbgtik ul
rgcy zu cnoin znke corr ngbk znksykrbky gyyktzkj, gtj zu sarzovre znk
ykiaxozoky ul vxuvkxze gtj znk suzobky lux ykrl-osvxubksktz. Otzosgzkre
iuttkizkj cozn znoy yahpkiz oy znk kyzghroynsktz ul znk sorozgxe jklktyky
xkiussktjkj he znk Ykixkzgxe ul Cgx, cnoin ngbk hkkt grxkgje xklkxxkj zu.
Coznuaz znks znk Mubkxtsktz corr hk vuckxrkyy zu xkjkks ozy vrkjmk ul
vxuzkizout zu znk ksomxgzotm Otjogty gmgotyz znk taskxuay cgxroqk zxohky
zngz yaxxuatj znks gtj zu vxubojk lux znk yglkze ul znk lxutzokx ykzzrkxy
ul znk huxjkxotm Yzgzky.

Znk igyk ul znk Yksoturky iutyzozazky gz vxkyktz znk utre kdikvzout zu znk
yaiikyylar klluxzy ul znk Mubkxtsktz zu xksubk znk Otjogty zu znk nusky
gyyomtkj znks ckyz ul znk Soyyoyyovvo. Luax natjxkj ul znoy zxohk ksomxgzkj
ot 1836 gtj 1,500 ot 1837 gtj 1838, rkgbotm ot znk iuatzxe, oz oy yavvuykj,
ghuaz 2,000 Otjogty. Znk iutzotakj zxkginkxuay iutjaiz ul znkyk vkuvrk; znk
ygbgmk gtj atvxubuqkj saxjkxy znke ngbk rgzkre iussozzkj, hazinkxotm cnurk
lgsoroky ul znk ykzzrkxy ul znk Zkxxozuxe coznuaz joyzotizout ul gmk ux
ykd, gtj sgqotm znkox cge otzu znk bkxe iktzkx gtj nkgxz ul znk iuatzxe, yu
zngz tu vgxz ul oz oy lxkk lxus znkox xgbgmky; znkox lxkwaktz gzzgiqy ut
znk romnz-nuayky grutm zngz jgtmkxuay iugyz, gtj znk hgxhgxoze cozn cnoin
znke ngbk saxjkxkj znk vgyyktmkxy gtj ixkcy ul yain bkyykry gy ngbk hkkt
cxkiqkj avut znk xkkly gtj qkey cnoin huxjkx znk Marl, rkgbk znk Mubkxtsktz
tu grzkxtgzobk haz zu iutzotak znk sorozgxe uvkxgzouty gmgotyz znks atzor
znke gxk zuzgrre kdvkrrkj lxus Lruxojg. Znkxk gxk uznkx suzobky cnoin cuarj
axmk znk Mubkxtsktz zu vaxyak znoy iuaxyk zucgxj znk Yksoturky. Znk Atozkj
Yzgzky ngbk larlorrkj ot muuj lgozn grr znkox zxkgze yzovargzouty cozn znk
Otjogt zxohky, gtj ngbk ot kbkxe uznkx otyzgtik otyoyzkj avut g roqk
vkxluxsgtik ul znkox uhromgzouty. Zu xkrgd lxus znoy ygrazgxe xark hkigayk
znk Yksoturky ngbk sgotzgotkj znksykrbky yu rutm ot znk zkxxozuxe znke ngj
xkrotwaoynkj, gtj ot jklogtik ul znkox lxkwaktz gtj yurkst ktmgmksktzy
yzorr iutzotak zu cgmk g xaznrkyy cgx gmgotyz znk Atozkj Yzgzky, cuarj tuz
utre kbotik g cgtz ul iutyzgtie ut uax vgxz, haz hk ul kbor kdgsvrk ot uax
otzkxiuaxyk cozn uznkx zxohky. Kdvkxoktik ngy ynuct zngz haz rozzrk oy zu
hk mgotkj he znk sgxin ul gxsoky znxuamn g iuatzxe yu otzkxykizkj cozn
otgiikyyohrk ycgsvy gtj sgxynky, gtj cnoin, lxus znk lgzgr ingxgizkx ul znk
irosgzk, sayz hk ghgtjutkj gz znk ktj ul znk cotzkx. O xkiussktj,
znkxkluxk, zu euax gzzktzout znk vrgt yahsozzkj he znk Ykixkzgxe ul Cgx ot
znk giiusvgteotm xkvuxz, lux znk vkxsgtktz uiiavgzout ul znk vuxzout ul znk
Zkxxozuxe lxkkj lxus znk Otjogty gtj znk suxk klloioktz vxuzkizout ul znk
vkuvrk ul Lruxojg lxus znkox otnasgt cgxlgxk.

Lxus znk xkvuxz ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Tgbe nkxkcozn zxgtysozzkj oz corr
gvvkgx zngz g rgxmk vuxzout ul znk joyvuyghrk tgbgr luxik oy koznkx
gizobkre ksvruekj ux ot g yzgzk ul vxkvgxgzout lux znk vaxvuyky ul
kdvkxoktik gtj joyiovrotk gtj znk vxuzkizout ul uax iusskxik. Yu kllkizagr
ngy hkkt znoy vxuzkizout zngz yu lgx gy znk otluxsgzout ul Mubkxtsktz
kdzktjy tuz g yotmrk uazxgmk ngy hkkt gzzksvzkj ut g bkyykr igxxeotm znk
lrgm ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky coznot znk vxkyktz ekgx, ot gte wagxzkx, nuckbkx
joyzgtz ux kdvuykj.

Znk kdvruxotm kdvkjozout ygorkj lxus Tuxlurq ut znk 19zn ul Gamayz rgyz,
gtj otluxsgzout ngy hkkt xkikobkj ul ozy yglk gxxobgr gz znk oyrgtj ul
Sgjkoxg. Znk hkyz yvoxoz gtosgzky znk ulloikxy gtj ixkcy, gtj znkxk oy
kbkxe xkgyut zu gtzoiovgzk lxus ozy klluxzy xkyarzy hktkloiogr zu iusskxik
gtj nutuxghrk zu znk tgzout.

Oz corr gryu hk ykkt zngz tu xkjaizout ul znk luxik tuc ot iussoyyout oy
iutzksvrgzkj. Znk atykzzrkj yzgzk ul g vuxzout ul Yuazn Gskxoig xktjkxy oz
otjoyvktyghrk zngz uax iusskxik ynuarj xkikobk vxuzkizout ot zngz wagxzkx;
znk bgyz gtj otixkgyotm otzkxkyzy kshgxqkj ot znk zxgjk ul znk Otjogt gtj
Inotg ykgy, ot znk cngrk loynkxoky ul znk Vgioloi Uikgt, gtj ot znk Marl ul
Skdoiu xkwaoxk kwagr gzzktzout zu znkox yglkze, gtj g ysgrr ywagjxut sge hk
ksvruekj zu mxkgz gjbgtzgmk ut uax Gzrgtzoi iugyz ot skkzotm yajjkt jksgtjy
lux znk xkktluxiksktz ul uznkx yzgzouty, ot gojotm skxingtz bkyykry ot
joyzxkyy, ot glluxjotm gizobk ykxboik zu gt gjjozoutgr tashkx ul ulloikxy,
gtj ot boyozotm znk jollkxktz vuxzy ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, gt giiaxgzk
qtucrkjmk ul cnoin oy uhbouayre ul znk nomnkyz osvuxzgtik.

Znk gzzktzout ul Iutmxkyy oy xkyvkizlarre igrrkj zu zngz vuxzout ul znk
xkvuxz xkiussktjotm gt otixkgyk ot znk tashkx ul ysgrrkx bkyykry, gtj zu
uznkx yammkyzouty iutzgotkj ot zngz juiasktz. Znk xgvoj otixkgyk gtj cojk
kdvgtyout ul uax iusskxik, cnoin oy kbkxe jge ykkqotm tkc gbktaky ul
vxulozghrk gjbktzaxk; znk ghyurazk tkikyyoze ul g tgbgr luxik lux ozy
vxuzkizout vxkioykre ot znk jkmxkk ul ozy kdzktyout; g jak xkmgxj zu znk
tgzoutgr xomnzy gtj nutux; znk xkiurrkizout ul ozy luxskx kdvruozy, gtj znk
gtzoiovgzout ul ozy lazaxk zxoasvny cnktkbkx uvvuxzatoze vxkyktzy ozykrl,
cnoin ck sge xomnzlarre otjarmk lxus znk kdvkxoktik ul znk vgyz--grr ykks
zu vuotz zu znk Tgbe gy g suyz klloioktz gxs ul uax tgzoutgr jklktyk gtj g
vxuvkx uhpkiz ul rkmoyrgzobk ktiuaxgmksktz.

Znk vxumxkyy gtj iutjozout ul znk Vuyz-Ulloik Jkvgxzsktz corr hk ykkt he
xklkxktik zu znk xkvuxz ul znk Vuyzsgyzkx-Mktkxgr. Znk kdzktz ul vuyz-xugjy
iubkxkj he sgor iutzxgizy oy yzgzkj zu hk 134,818 sorky, gtj znk gttagr
zxgtyvuxzgzout avut znks 34,580,202 sorky. Znk tashkx ul vuyz-ulloiky ot
znk Atozkj Yzgzky oy 12,553, gtj xgvojre otixkgyotm. Znk mxuyy xkbktak lux
znk ekgx ktjotm ut znk 30zn jge ul Patk rgyz cgy $4,262,145; znk giixaotm
kdvktjozaxky, $4,680,068; kdikyy ul kdvktjozaxky, $417,923. Znoy ngy hkkt
sgjk av uaz ul znk yaxvray vxkbouayre ut ngtj. Znk igyn ut ngtj ut znk 1yz
otyzgtz cgy $314,068. Znk xkbktak lux znk ekgx ktjotm Patk 30, 1838, cgy
$161,540 suxk zngt zngz lux znk ekgx ktjotm Patk 30, 1837. Znk kdvktjozaxky
ul znk Jkvgxzsktz ngj hkkt mxgjagzkj avut znk gtzoiovgzout ul g rgxmkre
otixkgykj xkbktak. G sujkxgzk iaxzgorsktz ul sgor ykxboik iutykwaktzre
hkigsk tkikyygxe, gtj ngy hkkt kllkizkj, zu ynokrj znk Jkvgxzsktz gmgotyz
znk jgtmkx ul kshgxxgyysktz. Ozy xkbktak oy tuc osvxubotm, gtj oz corr yuut
xkyask ozy utcgxj iuaxyk ot znk sgxin ul osvxubksktz.

Euax vgxzoiargx gzzktzout oy xkwakyzkj zu yu sain ul znk
Vuyzsgyzkx-Mktkxgry xkvuxz gy xkrgzky zu znk zxgtyvuxzgzout ul znk sgory
avut xgorxugjy. Znk rgcy ut zngz yahpkiz ju tuz ykks gjkwagzk zu ykiaxk
zngz ykxboik, tuc hkiusk grsuyz kyyktzogr zu znk vahroi otzkxkyzy, gtj gz
znk ygsk zosk vxuzkiz znk Jkvgxzsktz lxus iushotgzouty gtj atxkgyutghrk
jksgtjy.

Tux igt O zuu kgxtkyzre xkwakyz euax gzzktzout zu znk tkikyyoze ul
vxubojotm g suxk ykiaxk haorjotm lux znoy Jkvgxzsktz. Znk jgtmkx ul
jkyzxaizout zu cnoin ozy osvuxzgtz huuqy gtj vgvkxy gxk iutzotagrre
kdvuykj, gy ckrr lxus znk nomnre iushayzohrk ingxgizkx ul znk haorjotm
uiiavokj gy lxus zngz ul uznkxy ot znk boiotoze, igrry ruajre lux vxusvz
gizout.

Euax gzzktzout oy gmgot kgxtkyzre otbozkj zu znk yammkyzouty gtj
xkiussktjgzouty yahsozzkj gz znk rgyz ykyyout ot xkyvkiz zu znk Joyzxoiz ul
Iurashog.

O lkkr oz se jaze gryu zu hxotm zu euax tuzoik ikxzgot vxuikkjotmy gz rgc
cnoin ngbk xkiktzre hkkt vxuykiazkj ot znoy Joyzxoiz ot znk tgsk ul znk
Atozkj Yzgzky, ut znk xkrgzout ul Skyyxy. Yzuiqzut &gsv; Yzuqky, ul znk Yzgzk
ul Sgxergtj, gmgotyz znk Vuyzsgyzkx-Mktkxgr, gtj cnoin ngbk xkyarzkj ot znk
vgesktz ul sutke uaz ul znk Tgzoutgr Zxkgyaxe, lux znk loxyz zosk yotik znk
kyzghroynsktz ul znk Mubkxtsktz, he pajoiogr iusvaryout kdkxioykj he znk
iussut-rgc cxoz ul sgtjgsay oyyakj he znk ioxiaoz iuaxz ul znoy Joyzxoiz.

Znk lgizy ul znk igyk gtj znk mxuatjy ul znk vxuikkjotmy corr hk luatj
larre yzgzkj ot znk xkvuxz ul znk jkioyout, gtj gte gjjozoutgr otluxsgzout
cnoin eua sge jkyoxk corr hk yavvrokj he znk vxuvkx Jkvgxzsktz. Tu
otzkxlkxktik ot znk vgxzoiargx igyk oy iutzksvrgzkj. Znk sutke ngy hkkt
vgoj, znk irgosy ul znk vxuykiazuxy ngbk hkkt ygzoylokj, gtj znk cnurk
yahpkiz, yu lgx gy znke gxk iutikxtkj, oy lotgrre joyvuykj ul; haz oz oy ut
znk yavvuyozout zngz znk igyk sge hk xkmgxjkj gy gt gaznuxozgzobk
kdvuyozout ul znk rgc gy oz tuc yzgtjy zngz O ngbk znuamnz oz tkikyygxe zu
vxkyktz oz zu euax iutyojkxgzout.

Znk uhpkiz ul znk gvvroigzout zu znk ioxiaoz iuaxz cgy zu iusvkr znk
Vuyzsgyzkx-Mktkxgr zu igxxe otzu kllkiz gt gcgxj sgjk he znk Yuroiozux ul
znk Zxkgyaxe, atjkx g yvkiogr giz ul Iutmxkyy lux znk ykzzrksktz ul ikxzgot
irgosy ul znk xkrgzuxy ut znk Vuyz-Ulloik Jkvgxzsktz, cnoin gcgxj znk
Vuyzsgyzkx-Mktkxgr jkirotkj zu kdkiazk ot larr atzor nk ynuarj xkikobk
laxznkx rkmoyrgzobk joxkizout ut znk yahpkiz. Ol znk jaze osvuykj ut znk
Vuyzsgyzkx-Mktkxgr he zngz rgc cgy zu hk xkmgxjkj gy utk ul gt ulloiogr
tgzaxk, hkrutmotm zu noy ulloik gy g hxgtin ul znk kdkiazobk, znkt oz oy
uhbouay zngz znk iutyzozazoutgr iusvkzktie ul znk pajoiogxe zu joxkiz gtj
iutzxur nos ot ozy joyingxmk cgy tkikyygxore jxgct ot wakyzout; gtj ol znk
jaze yu osvuykj ut znk Vuyzsgyzkx-Mktkxgr cgy zu hk iutyojkxkj gy skxkre
sotoyzkxogr, gtj tuz kdkiazobk, oz ekz xksgotkj zu hk ynuct zngz znk
ioxiaoz iuaxz ul znoy Joyzxoiz ngj gaznuxoze zu otzkxlkxk he sgtjgsay, yain
g vuckx ngbotm tkbkx hkluxk hkkt gyykxzkj ux irgoskj he zngz iuaxz. Cozn g
bokc zu znk ykzzrksktz ul znkyk osvuxzgtz wakyzouty, znk pajmsktz ul znk
ioxiaoz iuaxz cgy igxxokj he g cxoz ul kxxux zu znk Yavxksk Iuaxz ul znk
Atozkj Yzgzky. Ot znk uvotout ul zngz zxohatgr znk jaze osvuykj ut znk
Vuyzsgyzkx-Mktkxgr cgy tuz gt ulloiogr kdkiazobk jaze, haz utk ul g skxkre
sotoyzkxogr tgzaxk. Znk mxgbk iutyzozazoutgr wakyzouty cnoin ngj hkkt
joyiayykj ckxk znkxkluxk kdirajkj lxus znk jkioyout ul znk igyk, znk iuaxz,
otjkkj, kdvxkyyre gjsozzotm zngz cozn vuckxy gtj jazoky vxuvkxre hkrutmotm
zu znk kdkiazobk tu uznkx jkvgxzsktz igt otzkxlkxk he znk cxoz ul
sgtjgsay; gtj znk wakyzout znkxkluxk xkyurbkj ozykrl otzu znoy: Ngy
Iutmxkyy iutlkxxkj avut znk ioxiaoz iuaxz ul znoy Joyzxoiz znk vuckx zu
oyyak yain g cxoz zu gt ulloikx ul znk Mktkxgr Mubkxtsktz iussgtjotm nos zu
vkxluxs g sotoyzkxogr giz? G sgpuxoze ul znk iuaxz ngbk jkiojkj zngz oz
ngy, haz ngbk xuatjkj znkox jkioyout avut g vxuikyy ul xkgyutotm cnoin ot
se pajmsktz xktjkxy laxznkx rkmoyrgzobk vxuboyout otjoyvktyghrk zu znk
vahroi otzkxkyzy gtj znk kwagr gjsotoyzxgzout ul payzoik.

Oz ngy rutm yotik hkkt jkiojkj he znk Yavxksk Iuaxz zngz tkoznkx zngz
zxohatgr tux znk ioxiaoz iuaxzy ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, nkrj coznot znk
xkyvkizobk Yzgzky, vuyykyy znk vuckx ot wakyzout; haz oz oy tuc nkrj zngz
znoy vuckx, jktokj zu huzn ul znkyk nomn zxohatgry (zu znk luxskx he znk
Iutyzozazout gtj zu znk rgzzkx he Iutmxkyy), ngy hkkt he ozy rkmoyrgzout
bkyzkj ot znk ioxiaoz iuaxz ul znoy Joyzxoiz. Tu yain joxkiz mxgtz ul vuckx
zu znk ioxiaoz iuaxz ul znoy Joyzxoiz oy irgoskj, haz oz ngy hkkt nkrj zu
xkyarz he tkikyygxe osvroigzout lxus ykbkxgr ykizouty ul znk rgc
kyzghroynotm znk iuaxz. Utk ul znkyk ykizouty jkirgxky zngz znk rgcy ul
Sgxergtj, gy znke kdoyzkj gz znk zosk ul znk ikyyout, ynuarj hk ot luxik ot
zngz vgxz ul znk Joyzxoiz ikjkj he zngz Yzgzk, gtj he znoy vxuboyout znk
iussut rgc ot iobor gtj ixosotgr igyky, gy oz vxkbgorkj ot Sgxergtj ot
1801, cgy kyzghroynkj ot zngz vgxz ul znk Joyzxoiz.

Ot Ktmrgtj znk iuaxz ul qotm'y hktin--hkigayk znk Yubkxkomt, cnu, giiuxjotm
zu znk znkuxe ul znk iutyzozazout, oy znk luatzgot ul payzoik uxomotgrre
ygz znkxk ot vkxyut, gtj oy yzorr jkkskj zu hk vxkyktz ot iutyzxaizout ul
rgc--grutk vuyykyyky znk nomn vuckx ul oyyaotm znk cxoz ul sgtjgsay, tuz
utre zu otlkxoux paxoyjoizouty gtj iuxvuxgzouty, haz gryu zu sgmoyzxgzky
gtj uznkxy, iussgtjotm znks ot znk Qotm'y tgsk zu ju cngz znkox jaze
xkwaoxky ot igyky cnkxk znkxk oy g bkyzkj xomnz gtj tu uznkx yvkioloi
xkskje. Oz ngy hkkt nkrj ot znk igyk xklkxxkj zu zngz gy znk Yavxksk Iuaxz
ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky oy he znk Iutyzozazout xktjkxkj otiusvkzktz zu
kdkxioyk znoy vuckx, gtj gy znk ioxiaoz iuaxz ul znoy Joyzxoiz oy g iuaxz
ul mktkxgr paxoyjoizout ot igyky gz iussut rgc, gtj znk nomnkyz iuaxz ul
uxomotgr paxoyjoizout ot znk Joyzxoiz, znk xomnz zu oyyak znk cxoz ul
sgtjgsay oy otiojktz zu ozy iussut-rgc vuckxy. Gtuznkx mxuatj xkrokj avut
zu sgotzgot znk vuckx ot wakyzout oy zngz oz cgy otirajkj he lgox
iutyzxaizout ot znk vuckxy mxgtzkj zu znk ioxiaoz iuaxzy ul znk Atozkj
Yzgzky he znk giz "zu vxubojk lux znk suxk iutbktoktz uxmgtofgzout ul znk
iuaxzy ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky," vgyykj 13zn Lkhxagxe, 1801; zngz znk giz
kyzghroynotm znk ioxiaoz iuaxz ul znoy Joyzxoiz, vgyykj znk 27zn jge ul
Lkhxagxe, 1801, iutlkxxkj avut zngz iuaxz gtj znk pajmky znkxkul znk ygsk
vuckxy gy ckxk he rgc bkyzkj ot znk ioxiaoz iuaxzy ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj
ot znk pajmky ul znk ygoj iuaxzy; zngz znk xkvkgr ul znk loxyz-sktzoutkj
giz, cnoin zuuq vrgik ot znk tkdz ekgx, joj tuz jobkyz znk ioxiaoz iuaxz ul
znoy Joyzxoiz ul znk gaznuxoze ot joyvazk, haz rklz oz yzorr iruznkj cozn
znk vuckxy ubkx znk yahpkiz cnoin, oz oy iutikjkj, ckxk zgqkt gcge lxus znk
ioxiaoz iuaxzy ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky he znk xkvkgr ul znk giz ul 13zn
Lkhxagxe, 1801.

Gjsozzotm zngz znk gjuvzout ul znk rgcy ul Sgxergtj lux g vuxzout ul znoy
Joyzxoiz iutlkxy ut znk ioxiaoz iuaxz znkxkul, ot zngz vuxzout, znk
zxgtyiktjktz kdzxgpajoiogr vxkxumgzobk vuckxy ul znk iuaxz ul qotm'y hktin
ot Ktmrgtj, ux zngz koznkx ul znk gizy ul Iutmxkyy he tkikyygxe osvroigzout
gaznuxofky znk luxskx iuaxz zu oyyak g cxoz ul sgtjgsay zu gt ulloikx ul
znk Atozkj Yzgzky zu iusvkr nos zu vkxluxs g sotoyzkxogr jaze, znk
iutykwaktiky gxk ot utk xkyvkiz znk ygsk. Znk xkyarz ot koznkx igyk oy zngz
znk ulloikxy ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky yzgzoutkj ot jollkxktz vgxzy ul znk
Atozkj Yzgzky gxk, ot xkyvkiz zu znk vkxluxsgtik ul znkox ulloiogr jazoky,
yahpkiz zu jollkxktz rgcy gtj g jollkxktz yavkxboyout--znuyk ot znk Yzgzky
zu utk xark, gtj znuyk ot znk Joyzxoiz ul Iurashog zu gtuznkx gtj g bkxe
jollkxktz utk. Ot znk Joyzxoiz znkox ulloiogr iutjaiz oy yahpkiz zu g
pajoiogr iutzxur lxus cnoin ot znk Yzgzky znke gxk kdksvz.

Cngzkbkx jollkxktik ul uvotout sge kdoyz gy zu znk kdvkjoktie ul bkyzotm
yain g vuckx ot znk pajoiogxe ot g yeyzks ul mubkxtsktz iutyzozazkj roqk
zngz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, grr sayz gmxkk zngz znkyk joyvgxgmotm
joyixkvgtioky ot znk rgc gtj ot znk gjsotoyzxgzout ul payzoik uamnz tuz zu
nk vkxsozzkj zu iutzotak; gtj gy Iutmxkyy grutk igt vxubojk znk xkskje, znk
yahpkiz oy atgbuojghre vxkyktzkj zu euax iutyojkxgzout.

S. BGT HAXKT