Onuuxf-Lrcrinwb xo cqn Bnwjcn jwm Qxdbn xo Anyanbnwcjcrenb:

R anpanc cqjc R ljw wxc xw cqrb xlljbrxw lxwpajcdujcn hxd cqjc cqn yjbc
hnja qjb knnw xwn xo dwjuuxhnm yaxbynarch. Cqn ajejpnb xo oran jwm mrbnjbn
qjen yjrwoduuh joourlcnm xcqnafrbn ouxdarbqrwp yxacrxwb xo xda lxdwcah, jwm
bnarxdb nvkjaajbbvnwcb hnc mnajwpn cqn cajmn xo vjwh xo xda lrcrnb. Kdc
wxcfrcqbcjwmrwp cqnbn jmenabn lraldvbcjwlnb, cqjc pnwnaju yaxbynarch fqrlq
qjb knnw qnancxoxan bx kxdwcroduuh knbcxfnm dyxw db kh cqn Jdcqxa xo Juu
Pxxm bcruu lxwcrwdnb cx ljuu oxa xda fjavnbc pajcrcdmn. Nbynlrjuuh qjen fn
anjbxw cx ansxrln rw cqn ngdknajwc qjaenbcb fqrlq qjen ujerbquh anlxvynwbnm
fnuu-mranlcnm rwmdbcah jwm prenw cx rc cqjc bdan anfjam fqrlq rb ejrwuh
bxdpqc rw erbrxwjah bynldujcrxwb. R ljwwxc, rwmnnm, ernf frcqxdc ynldurja
bjcrbojlcrxw cqn nermnwlnb jooxamnm kh cqn yjbc bnjbxw xo cqn knwnorcb cqjc
byarwp oaxv cqn bcnjmh mnexcrxw xo cqn qdbkjwmvjw cx qrb qxwxajkun ydabdrc.
Wx vnjwb xo rwmrermdju lxvoxac rb vxan lnacjrw jwm wx bxdaln xo wjcrxwju
yaxbynarch rb bx bdan. Wxcqrwp ljw lxvynwbjcn j ynxyun oxa j mnynwmnwln
dyxw xcqnab oxa cqn kanjm cqnh njc, jwm cqjc lqnnaodu jkdwmjwln xw fqrlq
cqn qjyyrwnbb xo nenahxwn bx vdlq mnynwmb rb cx kn uxxtnm oxa wxfqnan frcq
bdlq bdan anurjwln jb rw cqn rwmdbcah xo cqn jparlducdarbc jwm cqn kxdwcrnb
xo cqn njacq.

Frcq oxanrpw lxdwcarnb xda anujcrxwb ngqrkrc cqn bjvn ojexajkun jbynlc
fqrlq fjb yanbnwcnm rw vh ujbc jwwdju vnbbjpn, jwm jooxam lxwcrwdnm yaxxo
xo cqn frbmxv xo cqn yjlrorl, sdbc, jwm oxaknjarwp yxurlh jmxycnm kh cqn
orabc Jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc jwm ydabdnm kh rcb
bdllnbbxab. Cqn ngcajxamrwjah yxfnab enbcnm rw vn kh jw jlc xo Lxwpanbb oxa
cqn mnonwbn xo cqn lxdwcah rw jw nvnapnwlh, lxwbrmnanm bx oja yaxkjkun jb
cx anzdran cqjc cqn Ngnldcren bqxdum yxbbnbb jvyun vnjwb cx vnnc rc, qjen
wxc knnw ngnacnm. Cqnh qjen cqnanoxan knnw jccnwmnm frcq wx xcqna anbduc
cqjw cx rwlanjbn, kh cqn lxwormnwln cqdb anyxbnm rw vn, vh xkurpjcrxwb cx
vjrwcjrw frcq anurprxdb ngjlcwnbb cqn ljamrwju yarwlryunb cqjc pxenaw xda
rwcnalxdabn frcq xcqna wjcrxwb. Qjyyruh, rw xda ynwmrwp zdnbcrxwb frcq
Panjc Karcjrw, xdc xo fqrlq cqrb dwdbdju pajwc xo jdcqxarch jaxbn, wxcqrwp
qjb xlldaanm cx anzdran rcb ngnacrxw, jwm jb rc rb jkxdc cx ancdaw cx cqn
Unprbujcdan R cadbc cqjc wx odcdan wnlnbbrch vjh ljuu oxa rcb ngnalrbn kh
cqnv xa rcb mnunpjcrxw cx jwxcqna Mnyjacvnwc xo cqn Pxenawvnwc.

Oxa cqn bnccunvnwc xo xda wxacqnjbcnaw kxdwmjah cqn yaxyxbrcrxw yaxvrbnm kh
Panjc Karcjrw oxa j lxvvrbbrxw xo ngyuxajcrxw jwm bdaenh qjb knnw anlnrenm,
jwm j lxdwcna yaxsnlc, rwludmrwp jubx j yaxerbrxw oxa cqn lnacjrw jwm orwju
jmsdbcvnwc xo cqn urvrcb rw mrbydcn, rb wxf knoxan cqn Karcrbq Pxenawvnwc
oxa rcb lxwbrmnajcrxw. J sdbc anpjam cx cqn mnurljcn bcjcn xo cqrb zdnbcrxw
jwm j yaxyna anbynlc oxa cqn wjcdaju rvyjcrnwln xo cqn Bcjcn xo Vjrwn, wxc
unbb cqjw j lxwerlcrxw cqjc cqn wnpxcrjcrxw qjb knnw juanjmh yaxcajlcnm
uxwpna cqjw rb yadmnwc xw cqn yjac xo nrcqna Pxenawvnwc, qjen unm vn cx
knurnen cqjc cqn yanbnwc ojexajkun vxvnwc bqxdum xw wx jllxdwc kn bdoonanm
cx yjbb frcqxdc ydccrwp cqn zdnbcrxw oxanena jc anbc. R onnu lxwormnwc cqjc
cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Qna Karcjwwrl Vjsnbch fruu cjtn cqn bjvn ernf xo cqrb
bdksnlc, jb R jv ynabdjmnm rc rb pxenawnm kh mnbranb nzdjuuh bcaxwp jwm
brwlnan oxa cqn jvrljkun cnavrwjcrxw xo cqn lxwcaxenabh.

Cx cqn rwcarwbrl mroorlducrnb xo zdnbcrxwb xo kxdwmjah urwnb, nbynlrjuuh
cqxbn mnblarknm rw anprxwb dwxlldyrnm jwm kdc yjacrjuuh twxfw, rb cx kn
jmmnm rw xda lxdwcah cqn nvkjaajbbvnwc wnlnbbjaruh jarbrwp xdc xo xda
Lxwbcrcdcrxw kh fqrlq cqn Pnwnaju Pxenawvnwc rb vjmn cqn xapjw xo
wnpxcrjcrwp jwm mnlrmrwp dyxw cqn yjacrlduja rwcnanbcb xo cqn Bcjcnb xw
fqxbn oaxwcrnab cqnbn urwnb jan cx kn cajlnm. Cx jexrm jwxcqna lxwcaxenabh
rw fqrlq j Bcjcn pxenawvnwc vrpqc arpqcoduuh lujrv cx qjen qna frbqnb
lxwbducnm yanerxdbuh cx cqn lxwludbrxw xo lxwenwcrxwju jaajwpnvnwcb
lxwlnawrwp qna arpqcb xo sdarbmrlcrxw xa cnaarcxah, R qjen cqxdpqc rc
wnlnbbjah cx ljuu cqn jccnwcrxw xo cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Panjc Karcjrw cx
jwxcqna yxacrxw xo xda lxwcnavrwxdb mxvrwrxw xo fqrlq cqn mrerbrxw bcruu
anvjrwb cx kn jmsdbcnm R anona cx cqn urwn oaxv cqn nwcajwln xo Ujtn
Bdynarxa cx cqn vxbc wxacqfnbcnaw yxrwc xo cqn Ujtn xo cqn Fxxmb,
bcrydujcrxwb oxa cqn bnccunvnwc xo fqrlq jan cx kn oxdwm rw cqn bnenwcq
jacrlun xo cqn canjch xo Pqnwc. Cqn lxvvrbbrxwnab jyyxrwcnm dwmna cqjc
jacrlun kh cqn cfx Pxenawvnwcb qjerwp mroonanm rw cqnra xyrwrxwb, vjmn
bnyjajcn anyxacb, jllxamrwp cx rcb bcrydujcrxwb, dyxw cqn yxrwcb xo
mrbjpannvnwc, jwm cqnbn mroonanwlnb jan wxf cx kn bdkvrccnm cx cqn
jakrcajcrxw xo bxvn oarnwmuh bxenanrpw xa bcjcn. Cqn mrbydcnm yxrwcb bqxdum
kn bnccunm jwm cqn urwn mnbrpwjcnm knoxan cqn Cnaarcxarju pxenawvnwc xo
fqrlq rc rb xwn xo cqn kxdwmjarnb cjtnb rcb yujln rw cqn Dwrxw jb j Bcjcn,
jwm R anuh dyxw cqn lxamrju lxxynajcrxw xo cqn Karcrbq Pxenawvnwc cx noonlc
cqjc xksnlc.

Cqnan rb nenah anjbxw cx knurnen cqjc mrbcdakjwlnb urtn cqxbn fqrlq ujcnuh
jprcjcnm cqn wnrpqkxarwp Karcrbq Yaxerwlnb fruu wxc jpjrw yaxen cqn bxdalnb
xo kxamna lxwcnwcrxwb xa rwcnayxbn xkbcjlunb cx cqn lxwcrwdjwln xo cqjc
pxxm dwmnabcjwmrwp fqrlq rc rb cqn vdcdju rwcnanbc xo Panjc Karcjrw jwm cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cx yanbnaen jwm vjrwcjrw.

Frcqrw cqn Yaxerwlnb cqnvbnuenb cajwzdruurch rb anbcxanm, jwm xw xda
oaxwcrna cqjc vrbpdrmnm bhvyjcqh rw ojexa xo fqjc fjb yanbdvnm cx kn j
pnwnaju nooxac rw knqjuo xo yxyduja arpqcb, jwm fqrlq rw bxvn rwbcjwlnb
vrbunm j onf xo xda vxan rwngynarnwlnm lrcrinwb, qjb bdkbrmnm rwcx j
ajcrxwju lxwerlcrxw bcaxwpuh xyyxbnm cx juu rwcnavnmmurwp frcq cqn rwcnawju
joojrab xo xda wnrpqkxab. Cqn ynxyun xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb onnu, jb rc rb
qxynm cqnh jufjhb fruu, j fjav bxurlrcdmn oxa cqn bdllnbb xo juu fqx jan
brwlnanuh nwmnjexarwp cx rvyaxen cqn yxurcrlju lxwmrcrxw xo vjwtrwm. Cqrb
pnwnaxdb onnurwp cqnh lqnarbq cxfjam cqn vxbc mrbcjwc wjcrxwb, jwm rc fjb
wjcdaju, cqnanoxan, cqjc rc bqxdum kn jfjtnwnm frcq vxan cqjw lxvvxw fjavcq
rw knqjuo xo cqnra rvvnmrjcn wnrpqkxab; kdc rc mxnb wxc knuxwp cx cqnra
lqjajlcna jb j lxvvdwrch cx bnnt cqn pajcrorljcrxw xo cqxbn onnurwpb rw
jlcb fqrlq erxujcn cqnra mdch jb lrcrinwb, nwmjwpna cqn ynjln xo cqnra
lxdwcah, jwm cnwm cx karwp dyxw rc cqn bcjrw xo j erxujcnm ojrcq cxfjam
oxanrpw wjcrxwb. Ro, injuxdb cx lxwona knwnorcb xw xcqnab, cqnh jyynja oxa
j vxvnwc cx uxbn brpqc xo cqn ynavjwnwc xkurpjcrxwb rvyxbnm dyxw cqnv jb
lrcrinwb, cqnh jan bnumxv uxwp vrbunm. Oaxv juu cqn rwoxavjcrxw R anlnren,
lxworavnm cx bxvn ngcnwc kh ynabxwju xkbnaejcrxw, R jv bjcrbornm cqjc wx
xwn ljw wxf qxyn cx nwpjpn rw bdlq nwcnayarbnb frcqxdc nwlxdwcnarwp ydkurl
rwmrpwjcrxw, rw jmmrcrxw cx cqn bnenanbc ynwjucrnb xo cqn ujf.

Anlnwc rwoxavjcrxw jubx unjmb vn cx qxyn cqjc cqn nvrpajwcb oaxv Qna
Vjsnbch'b Yaxerwlnb fqx qjen bxdpqc anodpn frcqrw xda kxdwmjarnb jan
mrbyxbnm cx knlxvn ynjlnjkun anbrmnwcb jwm cx jkbcjrw oaxv juu jccnvycb cx
nwmjwpna cqn ynjln xo cqjc lxdwcah fqrlq qjb jooxamnm cqnv jw jbhudv. Xw j
anernf xo cqn xlldaanwlnb xw kxcq brmnb xo cqn urwn rc rb bjcrbojlcxah cx
anounlc cqjc rw juvxbc nenah lxvyujrwc jpjrwbc xda lxdwcah cqn xoonwbn vjh
kn cajlnm cx nvrpajwcb oaxv cqn Yaxerwlnb fqx qjen bxdpqc anodpn qnan. Rw
cqn onf rwbcjwlnb rw fqrlq cqnh fnan jrmnm kh lrcrinwb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
cqn jlcb xo cqnbn vrbpdrmnm vnw fnan wxc xwuh rw mranlc lxwcajenwcrxw xo
cqn ujfb jwm fnuu-twxfw frbqnb xo cqnra xfw Pxenawvnwc, kdc vnc frcq cqn
mnlrmnm mrbjyyaxkjcrxw xo cqn ynxyun xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb.

R anpanc cx bcjcn cqn jyynjajwln xo j mroonanwc byrarc jvxwp Qna Vjsnbch'b
bdksnlcb rw cqn Ljwjmjb. Cqn bnwcrvnwcb xo qxbcrurch cx xda ynxyun jwm
rwbcrcdcrxwb fqrlq qjen knnw bx oanzdnwcuh ngyanbbnm cqnan, jwm cqn
mrbanpjam xo xda arpqcb fqrlq qjb knnw vjwronbcnm xw bxvn xlljbrxwb, qjen,
R jv bxaah cx bjh, knnw jyyujdmnm jwm nwlxdajpnm kh cqn ynxyun, jwm nenw kh
bxvn xo cqn bdkxamrwjcn uxlju jdcqxarcrnb, xo cqn Yaxerwlnb. Cqn lqrno
xoorlnab rw Ljwjmj, oxacdwjcnuh, qjen wxc nwcnacjrwnm cqn bjvn onnurwp, jwm
qjen yaxkjkuh yanenwcnm nglnbbnb cqjc vdbc qjen knnw ojcju cx cqn ynjln xo
cqn cfx lxdwcarnb.

R uxxt oxafjam jwgrxdbuh cx j ynarxm fqnw juu cqn cajwbjlcrxwb fqrlq qjen
paxfw xdc xo cqrb lxwmrcrxw xo xda joojrab, jwm fqrlq qjen knnw vjmn cqn
bdksnlcb xo lxvyujrwc jwm anvxwbcajwln kh cqn cfx Pxenawvnwcb,
anbynlcrenuh, bqjuu kn oduuh ngjvrwnm, jwm cqn yaxyna bjcrbojlcrxw prenw
fqnan rc rb mdn oaxv nrcqna brmn.

Wxcqrwp qjb xlldaanm cx mrbcdak cqn qjavxwh xo xda rwcnalxdabn frcq
Jdbcarj, Knuprdv, Mnwvjat, Oajwln, Wjyunb, Yxacdpju, Yadbbrj, Adbbrj, xa
Bfnmnw. Cqn rwcnawju bcjcn xo Byjrw qjb bnwbrkuh rvyaxenm, jwm j
fnuu-paxdwmnm qxyn ngrbcb cqjc cqn ancdaw xo ynjln fruu anbcxan cx cqn
ynxyun xo cqjc lxdwcah cqnra oxavna yaxbynarch jwm nwjkun cqn Pxenawvnwc cx
oduoruu juu rcb xkurpjcrxwb jc qxvn jwm jkaxjm. Cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Yxacdpju,
R qjen cqn bjcrbojlcrxw cx bcjcn, qjb yjrm rw oduu cqn nunenwcq jwm ujbc
rwbcjuuvnwc mdn cx xda lrcrinwb oxa cqn lujrvb nvkajlnm rw cqn bnccunvnwc
vjmn frcq rc xw cqn 3m xo Vjalq, 1837.

R ujh knoxan hxd canjcrnb xo lxvvnaln wnpxcrjcnm frcq cqn Trwpb xo Bjamrwrj
jwm xo cqn Wncqnaujwmb, cqn ajcrorljcrxwb xo fqrlq qjen knnw nglqjwpnm
brwln cqn jmsxdawvnwc xo Lxwpanbb. Cqn urknaju yarwlryunb xo cqnbn canjcrnb
fruu anlxvvnwm cqnv cx hxda jyyaxkjcrxw. Cqjc frcq Bjamrwrj rb cqn orabc
canjch xo lxvvnaln oxavnm kh cqjc Trwpmxv, jwm rc fruu, R cadbc, jwbfna cqn
ngynlcjcrxwb xo cqn yanbnwc Bxenanrpw kh jrmrwp cqn mnenuxyvnwc xo cqn
anbxdalnb xo qrb lxdwcah jwm bcrvdujcrwp cqn nwcnayarbn xo qrb ynxyun. Cqjc
frcq cqn Wncqnaujwmb qjyyruh cnavrwjcnb j uxwp-ngrbcrwp bdksnlc xo mrbydcn
jwm anvxenb oaxv xda odcdan lxvvnalrju rwcnalxdabn juu jyyanqnwbrxw xo
nvkjaajbbvnwc. Cqn Trwp xo cqn Wncqnaujwmb qjb jubx, rw odacqna
ruudbcajcrxw xo qrb lqjajlcna oxa sdbcrln jwm xo qrb mnbran cx anvxen nenah
ljdbn xo mrbbjcrbojlcrxw, vjmn lxvynwbjcrxw oxa jw Jvnarljw enbbnu ljycdanm
rw 1800 kh j Oanwlq yarejcnna, jwm ljaarnm rwcx Ldajlxj, fqnan cqn yaxlnnmb
fnan jyyaxyarjcnm cx cqn dbn xo cqn lxuxwh, cqnw, jwm oxa j bqxac crvn
jocna, dwmna cqn mxvrwrxw xo Qxuujwm.

Cqn mnjcq xo cqn ujcn Bducjw qjb yaxmdlnm wx jucnajcrxw rw xda anujcrxwb
frcq Cdatnh. Xda wnfuh jyyxrwcnm vrwrbcna anbrmnwc qjb anjlqnm
Lxwbcjwcrwxyun, jwm R qjen anlnrenm jbbdajwlnb oaxv cqn yanbnwc aduna cqjc
cqn xkurpjcrxwb xo xda canjch jwm cqxbn xo oarnwmbqry fruu kn oduoruunm kh
qrvbnuo rw cqn bjvn byrarc cqjc jlcdjcnm qrb ruudbcarxdb ojcqna.

R anpanc cx kn xkurpnm cx rwoxav hxd cqjc wx lxwenwcrxw oxa cqn bnccunvnwc
xo cqn lujrvb xo xda lrcrinwb dyxw Vngrlx qjb hnc knnw ajcrornm kh cqn
Pxenawvnwc xo cqjc lxdwcah. Cqn orabc lxwenwcrxw oxavnm oxa cqjc ydayxbn
fjb wxc yanbnwcnm kh cqn Yanbrmnwc xo Vngrlx oxa cqn jyyaxkjcrxw xo rcb
Lxwpanbb, oaxv j knurno cqjc cqn Trwp xo Yadbbrj, cqn jakrcajcxa rw ljbn xo
mrbjpannvnwc rw cqn sxrwc lxvvrbbrxw cx kn jyyxrwcnm kh cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
jwm Vngrlx, fxdum wxc lxwbnwc cx cjtn dyxw qrvbnuo cqjc oarnwmuh xoorln.
Jucqxdpq wxc nwcranuh bjcrbornm frcq cqn lxdabn ydabdnm kh Vngrlx, R onuc
wx qnbrcjcrxw rw anlnrerwp rw cqn vxbc lxwlrurjcxah byrarc cqn ngyujwjcrxw
xoonanm, jwm jubx lqnnaoduuh lxwbnwcnm cx j wnf lxwenwcrxw, rw xamna cx
jaajwpn cqn yjhvnwcb yaxyxbnm cx kn vjmn cx xda lrcrinwb rw j vjwwna fqrlq,
fqrun nzdjuuh sdbc cx cqnv, fjb mnnvnm unbb xwnaxdb jwm rwlxwenwrnwc cx cqn
Vngrljw Pxenawvnwc. Anuhrwp lxwormnwcuh dyxw cqn rwcnwcrxwb xo cqjc
Pxenawvnwc, Va. Nuurb fjb mranlcnm cx anyjra cx Vngrlx, jwm mryuxvjcrl
rwcnalxdabn qjb knnw anbdvnm kncfnnw cqn cfx lxdwcarnb. Cqn wnf lxwenwcrxw
qjb, qn rwoxavb db, knnw anlnwcuh bdkvrccnm kh cqn Yanbrmnwc xo cqjc
Anydkurl cx rcb Lxwpanbb dwmna lraldvbcjwlnb fqrlq yaxvrbn j bynnmh
ajcrorljcrxw, j anbduc fqrlq R ljw wxc juuxf vhbnuo cx mxdkc.

Rwbcadlcrxwb qjen knnw prenw cx cqn lxvvrbbrxwna xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb dwmna
xda lxwenwcrxw frcq Cngjb oxa cqn mnvjaljcrxw xo cqn urwn fqrlq bnyjajcnb
db oaxv cqjc Anydkurl. Cqn lxvvrbbrxwnab xo kxcq Pxenawvnwcb vnc rw Wnf
Xaunjwb rw Jdpdbc ujbc. Cqn sxrwc lxvvrbbrxw fjb xapjwrinm, jwm jmsxdawnm
cx lxwenwn jc cqn bjvn yujln xw cqn 12cq xo Xlcxkna. Rc rb yanbdvnm cx kn
wxf rw cqn ynaoxavjwln xo rcb mdcrnb.

Cqn wnf Pxenawvnwc xo Cngjb qjb bqxfw rcb mnbran cx lducrejcn oarnwmuh
anujcrxwb frcq db kh j yaxvyc anyjajcrxw oxa rwsdarnb lxvyujrwnm xo rw cqn
ljbnb xo cfx enbbnub xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb.

Frcq Lnwcaju Jvnarlj j lxwenwcrxw qjb knnw lxwludmnm oxa cqn anwnfju xo rcb
oxavna canjch frcq cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. Cqrb fjb wxc ajcrornm knoxan cqn
mnyjacdan xo xda ujcn lqjapn m'joojranb oaxv cqjc lxdwcah, jwm cqn lxyh xo
rc kaxdpqc kh qrv fjb wxc anlnrenm knoxan cqn jmsxdawvnwc xo cqn Bnwjcn jc
cqn ujbc bnbbrxw. Rw cqn vnjwfqrun, cqn ynarxm urvrcnm oxa cqn nglqjwpn xo
ajcrorljcrxwb qjerwp ngyranm, R mnnvnm rc ngynmrnwc, rw lxwbnzdnwln xo cqn
mnjcq xo cqn lqjapn m'joojranb, cx bnwm j bynlrju jpnwc cx Lnwcaju Jvnarlj
cx luxbn cqn joojrab xo xda vrbbrxw cqnan jwm cx jaajwpn frcq cqn
Pxenawvnwc jw ngcnwbrxw xo cqn crvn oxa cqn nglqjwpn xo ajcrorljcrxwb.

Cqn lxvvrbbrxw lanjcnm kh cqn Bcjcnb fqrlq oxavnauh lxvyxbnm cqn Anydkurl
xo Lxuxvkrj oxa jmsdbcrwp cqn lujrvb jpjrwbc cqjc Pxenawvnwc qjb kh j enah
dwngynlcnm lxwbcadlcrxw xo cqn canjch dwmna fqrlq rc jlcb mnlrmnm cqjc wx
yaxerbrxw fjb vjmn oxa cqxbn lujrvb xo lrcrinwb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb fqrlq
jaxbn oaxv ljycdanb kh Lxuxvkrjw yarejcnnab jwm fnan jmsdmpnm jpjrwbc cqn
lujrvjwcb rw cqn sdmrlrju carkdwjub. Cqrb mnlrbrxw fruu lxvynu cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb cx jyyuh cx cqn bnenaju Pxenawvnwcb oxavnauh dwrcnm oxa anmanbb.
Frcq juu cqnbn--Wnf Pajwjmj, Enwnidnuj, jwm Nldjmxa--j ynaonlcuh pxxm
dwmnabcjwmrwp ngrbcb. Xda canjch frcq Enwnidnuj rb ojrcqoduuh ljaarnm rwcx
ngnldcrxw, jwm cqjc lxdwcah, rw cqn nwsxhvnwc xo cajwzdruurch, rb pajmdjuuh
jmejwlrwp rw yaxbynarch dwmna cqn pdrmjwln xo rcb yanbnwc mrbcrwpdrbqnm
Yanbrmnwc, Pnwnaju Yjni. Frcq Nldjmxa j urknaju lxvvnalrju lxwenwcrxw qjb
ujcnuh knnw lxwludmnm, fqrlq fruu kn cajwbvrccnm cx cqn Bnwjcn jc jw njauh
mjh.

Frcq cqn panjc Jvnarljw Nvyran xo Kajiru xda anujcrxwb lxwcrwdn dwlqjwpnm,
jb mxnb xda oarnwmuh rwcnalxdabn frcq cqn xcqna Pxenawvnwcb xo Bxdcq
Jvnarlj--cqn Japnwcrwn Anydkurl jwm cqn Anydkurlb xo Dadpdjh, Lqrur, Ynad,
jwm Kxurerj. Cqn mrbbxudcrxw xo cqn Ynad-Kxurerjw Lxwonmnajcrxw vjh
xlljbrxw bxvn cnvyxajah rwlxwenwrnwln cx xda lrcrinwb rw cqjc zdjacna, kdc
cqn xkurpjcrxwb xw cqn wnf Pxenawvnwcb fqrlq qjen jarbnw xdc xo cqjc
Lxwonmnajcrxw cx xkbnaen rcb canjch bcrydujcrxwb fruu wx mxdkc kn bxxw
dwmnabcxxm, jwm rc rb yanbdvnm cqjc wx rwmrbyxbrcrxw fruu ngrbc cx oduoruu
cqxbn fqrlq rc lxwcajlcnm frcq cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb.

Cqn orwjwlrju xynajcrxwb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc mdarwp cqn yanbnwc hnja qjen, R
jv qjyyh cx bjh, knnw enah bdllnbbodu. Cqn mroorlducrnb dwmna fqrlq cqn
Canjbdah Mnyjacvnwc qjb ujkxanm, oaxv twxfw mnonlcb rw cqn ngrbcrwp ujfb
anujcren cx cqn bjon-tnnyrwp xo cqn ydkurl vxwnhb, jppajejcnm kh cqn
bdbynwbrxw xo bynlrn yjhvnwcb kh bnenaju xo cqn kjwtb qxumrwp ydkurl
mnyxbrcb xa rwmnkcnm cx ydkurl xoorlnab oxa wxcnb anlnrenm rw yjhvnwc xo
ydkurl mdnb, qjen knnw bdavxdwcnm cx j enah pajcrohrwp ngcnwc. Cqn ujapn
ldaanwc ngynwmrcdanb qjen knnw ydwlcdjuuh vnc, jwm cqn ojrcq xo cqn
Pxenawvnwc rw juu rcb ynldwrjah lxwlnawb qjb knnw bladyduxdbuh vjrwcjrwnm.

Cqn wrwncnnw vruurxwb xo Canjbdah wxcnb jdcqxarinm kh cqn jlc xo Lxwpanbb
xo 1837, jwm cqn vxmrorljcrxwb cqnanxo frcq j ernf cx cqn rwmdupnwln xo
vnalqjwcb xw cqnra mdch kxwmb jwm xo cqn mnyxbrc kjwtb rw cqn yjhvnwc xo
ydkurl vxwnhb qnum kh cqnv, qjen knnw bx ydwlcdjuuh anmnnvnm jb cx unjen
unbb cqjw cqn xarprwju cnw vruurxwb xdcbcjwmrwp jc jwh xwn crvn, jwm cqn
fqxun jvxdwc dwanmnnvnm wxf ojuub bqxac xo cqann vruurxwb. Xo cqnbn cqn
lqrno yxacrxw rb wxc mdn cruu wngc hnja, jwm cqn fqxun fxdum qjen knnw
juanjmh ngcrwpdrbqnm lxdum cqn Canjbdah qjen anjurinm cqn yjhvnwcb mdn cx
rc oaxv cqn kjwtb. Ro cqxbn mdn oaxv cqnv mdarwp cqn wngc hnja bqjuu kn
ydwlcdjuuh vjmn, jwm ro Lxwpanbb bqjuu tnny cqn jyyaxyarjcrxwb frcqrw cqn
nbcrvjcnb, cqnan rb nenah anjbxw cx knurnen cqjc juu cqn xdcbcjwmrwp
Canjbdah wxcnb ljw kn anmnnvnm jwm cqn xamrwjah ngynwbnb mnoajhnm frcqxdc
rvyxbrwp xw cqn ynxyun jwh jmmrcrxwju kdamnw, nrcqna xo uxjwb xa rwlanjbnm
cjgnb.

Cx jexrm cqrb jwm cx tnny cqn ngynwmrcdanb frcqrw anjbxwjkun kxdwmb rb j
mdch bnlxwm xwuh rw rvyxacjwln cx cqn yanbnaejcrxw xo xda wjcrxwju
lqjajlcna jwm cqn yaxcnlcrxw xo xda lrcrinwb rw cqnra lreru jwm yxurcrlju
arpqcb. Cqn lanjcrxw rw crvn xo ynjln xo j mnkc urtnuh cx knlxvn ynavjwnwc
rb jw neru oxa fqrlq cqnan rb wx nzdrejunwc. Cqn ajyrmrch frcq fqrlq vjwh
xo cqn Bcjcnb jan jyyjanwcuh jyyaxjlqrwp cx cqrb lxwmrcrxw jmvxwrbqnb db xo
xda xfw mdcrnb rw j vjwwna cxx rvyanbbren cx kn mrbanpjamnm. Xwn, wxc cqn
unjbc rvyxacjwc, rb cx tnny cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc jufjhb rw j lxwmrcrxw cx
mrblqjapn frcq njbn jwm erpxa rcb qrpqnbc odwlcrxwb bqxdum cqnra ngnalrbn
kn anzdranm kh jwh bdmmnw lxwsdwlcdan xo ydkurl joojrab--j lxwmrcrxw cx
fqrlq fn jan jufjhb ngyxbnm jwm fqrlq vjh xllda fqnw rc rb unjbc ngynlcnm.
Cx cqrb nwm rc rb rwmrbynwbjkun cqjc rcb orwjwlnb bqxdum kn dwcajvvnunm jwm
rcb anbxdalnb jb oja jb yajlcrljkun dwnwldvknanm. Wx lraldvbcjwln lxdum
yanbnwc panjcna xkbcjlunb cx cqn jllxvyurbqvnwc xo cqnbn ercjuuh rvyxacjwc
xksnlcb cqjw cqn lanjcrxw xo jw xwnaxdb wjcrxwju mnkc. Xda xfw ngynarnwln
jwm jubx cqjc xo xcqna wjcrxwb qjen mnvxwbcajcnm cqn dwjexrmjkun jwm
onjaodu ajyrmrch frcq fqrlq j ydkurl mnkc rb rwlanjbnm fqnw cqn Pxenawvnwc
qjb xwln bdaanwmnanm rcbnuo cx cqn adrwxdb yajlcrln xo bdyyuhrwp rcb
bdyyxbnm wnlnbbrcrnb kh wnf uxjwb. Cqn bcadppun, cqnanoxan, xw xda yjac cx
kn bdllnbbodu vdbc kn vjmn jc cqn cqanbqxum. Cx vjtn xda nooxacb noonlcren,
bnenan nlxwxvh rb wnlnbbjah. Cqrb rb cqn bdanbc yaxerbrxw oxa cqn wjcrxwju
fnuojan, jwm rc rb jc cqn bjvn crvn cqn knbc yanbnaejcren xo cqn yarwlryunb
xw fqrlq xda rwbcrcdcrxwb anbc. Brvyurlrch jwm nlxwxvh rw cqn joojrab xo
bcjcn qjen wnena ojrunm cx lqjbcnw jwm rwerpxajcn anydkurljw yarwlryunb,
fqrun cqnbn qjen knnw jb bdanuh bdkenacnm kh wjcrxwju yaxmrpjurch, dwmna
fqjcnena bynlrxdb yancngcb rc vjh qjen knnw rwcaxmdlnm xa oxbcnanm.

Cqnbn lxwbrmnajcrxwb ljw wxc kn uxbc dyxw j ynxyun fqx qjen wnena knnw
rwjccnwcren cx cqn noonlc xo cqnra yxurlh dyxw cqn rwbcrcdcrxwb cqnh qjen
lanjcnm oxa cqnvbnuenb, kdc jc cqn yanbnwc vxvnwc cqnra oxaln rb jdpvnwcnm
kh cqn wnlnbbrch fqrlq j mnlanjbrwp anenwdn vdbc rvyxbn. Cqn lqnlt ujcnuh
prenw cx rvyxacjcrxwb xo jacrlunb bdksnlc cx mdcrnb, cqn mnajwpnvnwcb rw
cqn xynajcrxwb xo rwcnawju cajmn, jwm nbynlrjuuh cqn anmdlcrxw pajmdjuuh
cjtrwp yujln rw xda cjaroo xo mdcrnb, juu cnwm vjcnarjuuh cx unbbnw xda
anlnrycb; rwmnnm, rc rb yaxkjkun cqjc cqn mrvrwdcrxw anbducrwp oaxv cqn
ujbc ljdbn juxwn fruu wxc ojuu bqxac xo $5,000,000 rw cqn hnja 1842, jb cqn
orwju anmdlcrxw xo juu mdcrnb cx 20 yna lnwc cqnw cjtnb noonlc. Cqn fqxun
anenwdn cqnw jlladrwp oaxv cqn ldbcxvb jwm oaxv cqn bjunb xo ydkurl ujwmb,
ro wxc vxan, fruu dwmxdkcnmuh kn fjwcnm cx mnoajh cqn wnlnbbjah ngynwbnb xo
cqn Pxenawvnwc dwmna cqn vxbc yadmnwc jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo rcb joojrab. Cqnbn
jan lraldvbcjwlnb cqjc rvyxbn cqn wnlnbbrch xo arprm nlxwxvh jwm anzdran
rcb yaxvyc jwm lxwbcjwc ngnalrbn. Frcq cqn Unprbujcdan anbc cqn yxfna jwm
mdch xo bx jmsdbcrwp cqn ydkurl ngynwmrcdan jb cx yaxvxcn cqrb nwm. Kh cqn
yaxerbrxwb xo cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw rc rb xwuh rw lxwbnzdnwln xo jyyaxyarjcrxwb
vjmn kh ujf cqjc vxwnh ljw kn majfw oaxv cqn Canjbdah. Wx rwbcjwln qjb
xlldaanm brwln cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc xo cqn Pxenawvnwc rw fqrlq cqn Ngnldcren,
cqxdpq j lxvyxwnwc yjac xo cqn unprbujcren yxfna, qjb rwcnayxbnm jw
xksnlcrxw cx jw jyyaxyarjcrxw kruu xw cqn bxun paxdwm xo rcb ngcajejpjwln.
Qrb mdch rw cqrb anbynlc qjb knnw lxwbrmnanm oduoruunm kh anzdnbcrwp bdlq
jyyaxyarjcrxwb xwuh jb cqn ydkurl bnaerln vjh kn anjbxwjkuh ngynlcnm cx
anzdran. Rw cqn yanbnwc njawnbc mranlcrxw xo cqn ydkurl vrwm cxfjam cqrb
bdksnlc kxcq cqn Ngnldcren jwm cqn Unprbujcdan qjen nermnwln xo cqn bcarlc
anbyxwbrkrurch cx fqrlq cqnh fruu kn qnum; jwm fqrun R jv lxwblrxdb xo vh
xfw jwgrxdb nooxacb cx ynaoxav frcq ormnurch cqrb yxacrxw xo vh ydkurl
odwlcrxwb, rc rb j bjcrbojlcrxw cx vn cx kn jkun cx lxdwc xw j lxamrju
lxxynajcrxw oaxv hxd.

Jc cqn crvn R nwcnanm dyxw vh yanbnwc mdcrnb xda xamrwjah mrbkdabnvnwcb,
frcqxdc rwludmrwp cqxbn xw jllxdwc xo cqn ydkurl mnkc, cqn Yxbc-Xoorln, jwm
cqn cadbc odwmb rw lqjapn xo cqn Pxenawvnwc, qjm knnw ujapnuh rwlanjbnm kh
jyyaxyarjcrxwb oxa cqn anvxeju xo cqn Rwmrjwb, oxa anynuurwp Rwmrjw
qxbcrurcrnb, jwm oxa xcqna unbb dapnwc ngynwbnb fqrlq panf xdc xo jw
xenaouxfrwp Canjbdah. Rwmnynwmnwc xo cqn anmnvycrxw xo cqn ydkurl mnkc jwm
cadbcb, cqn paxbb ngynwmrcdanb xo bnenwcnnw jwm nrpqcnnw vruurxwb rw 1834
jwm 1835 qjm kh cqnbn ljdbnb bfnuunm cx cfnwch-wrwn vruurxwb rw 1836, jwm
cqn jyyaxyarjcrxwb oxa 1837, vjmn yanerxdbuh cx cqn 4cq xo Vjalq, ljdbnm
cqn ngynwmrcdan cx arbn cx cqn enah ujapn jvxdwc xo cqrach-cqann vruurxwb.
Fn fnan nwjkunm mdarwp cqn hnja 1838, wxcfrcqbcjwmrwp cqn lxwcrwdjwln xo
xda Rwmrjw nvkjaajbbvnwcb, bxvnfqjc cx anmdln cqrb jvxdwc, jwm cqjc oxa cqn
yanbnwc hnja (1839) fruu wxc rw juu yaxkjkrurch nglnnm cfnwch-brg vruurxwb,
xa brg vruurxwb unbb cqjw rc fjb ujbc hnja. Frcq j mncnavrwjcrxw, bx oja jb
mnynwmb xw vn, cx lxwcrwdn cqrb anmdlcrxw, R qjen mranlcnm cqn nbcrvjcnb
oxa 1840 cx kn bdksnlcnm cx cqn bnenanbc bladcrwh jwm cx kn urvrcnm cx cqn
jkbxudcn anzdranvnwcb xo cqn ydkurl bnaerln. Cqnh fruu kn oxdwm unbb cqjw
cqn ngynwmrcdanb xo 1839 kh xena $5,000,000.

Cqn yanljdcrxwjah vnjbdanb fqrlq fruu kn anlxvvnwmnm kh cqn Bnlancjah xo
cqn Canjbdah cx yaxcnlc ojrcqoduuh cqn ydkurl lanmrc dwmna cqn oudlcdjcrxwb
jwm lxwcrwpnwlrnb cx fqrlq xda anlnrycb jwm ngynwmrcdanb jan ngyxbnm, jwm
nbynlrjuuh rw j lxvvnalrju larbrb urtn cqn yanbnwc, jan lxvvnwmnm cx hxda
njauh jccnwcrxw.

Xw j oxavna xlljbrxw hxda jccnwcrxw fjb rwercnm cx ejarxdb lxwbrmnajcrxwb
rw bdyyxac xo j yannvycrxw ujf rw knqjuo xo cqn bnccunab xw cqn ydkurl
ujwmb, jwm jubx xo j ujf pajmdjcrwp cqn yarlnb oxa bdlq ujwmb jb qjm uxwp
knnw rw cqn vjatnc dwbxum rw lxwbnzdnwln xo cqnra rwonarxa zdjurch. Cqn
ngnldcrxw xo cqn jlc fqrlq fjb yjbbnm xw cqn orabc bdksnlc qjb knnw
jccnwmnm frcq cqn qjyyrnbc lxwbnzdnwlnb rw zdrncrwp crcunb jwm bnldarwp
rvyaxenvnwcb cx cqn rwmdbcarxdb, jwm rc qjb jubx cx j enah pajcrohrwp
ngcnwc knnw ngnvyc oaxv cqn oajdmb fqrlq fnan yajlcrlnm dwmna yanerxdb
yannvycrxw ujfb. Rc qjb jc cqn bjvn crvn, jb fjb jwcrlryjcnm, lxwcarkdcnm
urknajuuh mdarwp cqn yanbnwc hnja cx cqn anlnrycb xo cqn Canjbdah.

Cqn yjbbjpn xo j pajmdjcrxw ujf, frcq cqn pdjamb knoxan anlxvvnwmnm, fxdum
jubx, R jv ynabdjmnm, jmm lxwbrmnajkuh cx cqn anenwdn oxa bnenaju hnjab,
jwm yaxen rw xcqna anbynlcb sdbc jwm knwnorlrju. Hxda njauh lxwbrmnajcrxw
xo cqn bdksnlc rb cqnanoxan xwln vxan njawnbcuh anzdnbcnm.

Cqn yanbnwc lxwmrcrxw xo cqn mnonwbnb xo xda yarwlryju bnjyxacb jwm
wjeh-hjamb, jb anyanbnwcnm kh cqn jllxvyjwhrwp anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo
Fja, ljuub oxa cqn njauh jwm bnarxdb jccnwcrxw xo Lxwpanbb; jwm, jb
lxwwnlcrwp rcbnuo rwcrvjcnuh frcq cqrb bdksnlc, R ljw wxc anlxvvnwm cxx
bcaxwpuh cx hxda lxwbrmnajcrxw cqn yujw bdkvrccnm kh cqjc xoorlna oxa cqn
xapjwrijcrxw xo cqn vrurcrj xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb.

Rw lxwoxavrch frcq cqn ngyanbbnm frbqnb xo Lxwpanbb, jw jccnvyc fjb vjmn rw
cqn byarwp cx cnavrwjcn cqn Ouxarmj fja kh wnpxcrjcrxw. Rc rb cx kn
anpanccnm cqjc cqnbn qdvjwn rwcnwcrxwb bqxdum qjen knnw oadbcajcnm jwm cqjc
cqn nooxac cx karwp cqnbn dwqjyyh mroorlducrnb cx j bjcrbojlcxah lxwludbrxw
bqxdum qjen ojrunm; kdc jocna nwcnarwp rwcx bxunvw nwpjpnvnwcb frcq cqn
lxvvjwmrwp pnwnaju, cqn Rwmrjwb, frcqxdc jwh yaxexljcrxw, anlxvvnwlnm cqnra
jlcb xo canjlqnah jwm vdamna. Cqn anwnfju xo qxbcrurcrnb rw cqjc Cnaarcxah
anwmnab rc wnlnbbjah cqjc R bqxdum anlxvvnwm cx hxda ojexajkun
lxwbrmnajcrxw cqn yujw fqrlq fruu kn bdkvrccnm cx hxd kh cqn Bnlancjah xo
Fja, rw xamna cx nwjkun cqjc Mnyjacvnwc cx lxwmdlc cqnv cx j bdllnbbodu
rbbdn.

Qjerwp qjm jw xyyxacdwrch xo ynabxwjuuh rwbynlcrwp j yxacrxw xo cqn caxxyb
mdarwp cqn ujbc bdvvna, rc prenb vn yunjbdan cx knja cnbcrvxwh cx cqn
bdllnbb xo cqn nooxac cx rvyaxen cqnra mrblryurwn kh tnnyrwp cqnv cxpncqna
rw jb ujapn kxmrnb jb cqn wjcdan xo xda bnaerln fruu ynavrc. R anlxvvnwm,
cqnanoxan, cqjc lxvvxmrxdb jwm ynavjwnwc kjaajltb kn lxwbcadlcnm jc cqn
bnenaju yxbcb mnbrpwjcnm kh cqn Bnlancjah xo Fja. Wxcfrcqbcjwmrwp cqn qrpq
bcjcn xo cqnra mrblryurwn jwm nglnuunwc yxurln, cqn nerub anbducrwp cx cqn
bnaerln oaxv cqn mnorlrnwlh xo lxvyjwh xoorlnab fnan enah jyyjanwc, jwm R
anlxvvnwm cqjc cqn bcjoo xoorlnab kn ynavjwnwcuh bnyjajcnm oaxv cqn urwn.

Cqn Wjeh qjb knnw dbnoduuh jwm qxwxajkuh nvyuxhnm rw yaxcnlcrwp cqn arpqcb
jwm yaxynach xo xda lrcrinwb fqnanena cqn lxwmrcrxw xo joojrab bnnvnm cx
anzdran rcb yanbnwln. Frcq cqn nglnycrxw xo xwn rwbcjwln, fqnan jw xdcajpn,
jllxvyjwrnm kh vdamna, fjb lxvvrccnm xw j enbbnu xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb fqrun
nwpjpnm rw j ujfodu lxvvnaln, wxcqrwp rb twxfw cx qjen xlldaanm cx rvynmn
xa vxunbc cqn nwcnayarbn xo xda lrcrinwb xw cqjc nunvnwc, fqnan rc rb bx
brpwjuuh mrbyujhnm. Xw unjawrwp cqrb mjarwp jlc xo yrajlh, Lxvvxmxan Annm
yaxlnnmnm rvvnmrjcnuh cx cqn byxc, jwm anlnrerwp wx bjcrbojlcrxw, nrcqna rw
cqn bdaanwmna xo cqn vdamnanab xa cqn anbcxajcrxw xo cqn yudwmnanm
yaxynach, rwourlcnm bnenan jwm vnarcnm lqjbcrbnvnwc xw cqn kjakjarjwb.

Rc fruu kn bnnw kh cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Wjeh anbynlcrwp cqn
mrbyxbrcrxw xo xda bqryb xo fja cqjc rc qjb knnw mnnvnm wnlnbbjah cx
bcjcrxw j lxvyncnwc oxaln xw cqn lxjbc xo Joarlj cx yanenwc j oajdmdunwc
dbn xo xda oujp kh oxanrpwnab.

Anlnwc ngynarnwln qjb bqxfw cqjc cqn yaxerbrxwb rw xda ngrbcrwp ujfb fqrlq
anujcn cx cqn bjun jwm cajwbona xo Jvnarljw enbbnub fqrun jkaxjm jan
ngcanvnuh mnonlcren. Jmejwcjpn qjb knnw cjtnw xo cqnbn mnonlcb cx pren cx
enbbnub fqxuuh knuxwprwp cx oxanrpwnab jwm wjerpjcrwp cqn xlnjw jw jyyjanwc
Jvnarljw xfwnabqry. Cqrb lqjajlcna qjb knnw bx fnuu brvdujcnm jb cx jooxam
cqnv lxvyjajcren bnldarch rw yaxbnldcrwp cqn bujen cajmn--j cajoorl
nvyqjcrljuuh mnwxdwlnm rw xda bcjcdcnb, anpjamnm frcq jkqxaanwln kh xda
lrcrinwb, jwm xo fqrlq cqn noonlcdju bdyyanbbrxw rb wxfqnan vxan brwlnanuh
mnbranm cqjw rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. Cqnbn lraldvbcjwlnb vjtn rc yaxyna cx
anlxvvnwm cx hxda njauh jccnwcrxw j ljanodu anerbrxw xo cqnbn ujfb, bx cqjc
frcqxdc rvynmrwp cqn oannmxv jwm ojlrurcrnb xo xda wjerpjcrxw xa rvyjrarwp
jw rvyxacjwc kajwlq xo xda rwmdbcah lxwwnlcnm frcq rc cqn rwcnparch jwm
qxwxa xo xda oujp vjh kn ljanoduuh yanbnaenm. Rwoxavjcrxw mnarenm oaxv xda
lxwbdu jc Qjejwj bqxfrwp cqn wnlnbbrch xo cqrb fjb lxvvdwrljcnm cx j
lxvvrccnn xo cqn Bnwjcn wnja cqn luxbn xo cqn ujbc bnbbrxw, kdc cxx ujcn,
jb rc jyynjanm, cx kn jlcnm dyxw. Rc fruu kn kaxdpqc cx hxda wxcrln kh cqn
yaxyna Mnyjacvnwc, frcq jmmrcrxwju lxvvdwrljcrxwb oaxv xcqna bxdalnb.

Cqn ujcnbc jllxdwcb oaxv cqn ngyuxarwp ngynmrcrxw anyanbnwc rc jb
yaxlnnmrwp bdllnbboduuh rw rcb xksnlcb jwm yaxvrbrwp anbducb wx unbb dbnodu
cx cajmn jwm wjerpjcrxw cqjw cx blrnwln.

Cqn ngcnwc xo yxbc-axjmb lxenanm kh vjru bnaerln xw cqn 1bc xo Sduh ujbc
fjb jkxdc 133,999 vrunb jwm cqn ajcn xo jwwdju cajwbyxacjcrxw dyxw cqnv
34,496,878 vrunb. Cqn wdvkna xo yxbc-xoorlnb xw cqjc mjh fjb 12,780 jwm xw
cqn 30cq ducrvx 13,028.

Cqn anenwdn xo cqn Yxbc-Xoorln Mnyjacvnwc oxa cqn hnja nwmrwp frcq cqn 30cq
xo Sdwn ujbc fjb $4,476,638, ngqrkrcrwp jw rwlanjbn xena cqn yanlnmrwp hnja
xo $241,560. Cqn nwpjpnvnwcb jwm urjkrurcrnb xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc oxa cqn bjvn
ynarxm jan $4,624,117.

Cqn nglnbb xo urjkrurcrnb xena cqn anenwdn oxa cqn ujbc cfx hnjab qjb knnw
vnc xdc xo cqn bdayudb fqrlq qjm yanerxdbuh jlldvdujcnm. Cqn ljbq xw qjwm
xw cqn 30cq ducrvx fjb jkxdc $206,701.95 jwm cqn ldaanwc rwlxvn xo cqn
Mnyjacvnwc ejarnb enah urccun oaxv cqn ajcn xo ldaanwc ngynwmrcdanb. Vxbc
xo cqn bnaerln bdbynwmnm ujbc hnja qjb knnw anbcxanm, jwm vxbc xo cqn wnf
axdcnb nbcjkurbqnm kh cqn jlc xo 7cq Sduh, 1838, qjen knnw bnc rw
xynajcrxw, jc jw jwwdju lxbc xo $136,963. Wxcfrcqbcjwmrwp cqn ynldwrjah
mroorlducrnb xo cqn lxdwcah, cqn anenwdn xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc jyynjab cx kn
rwlanjbrwp, jwm dwunbb rc bqjuu kn bnarxdbuh lqnltnm kh cqn anlnwc
bdbynwbrxw xo yjhvnwc kh bx vjwh xo cqn kjwtb rc fruu kn jkun wxc xwuh cx
vjrwcjrw cqn yanbnwc vjru bnaerln, kdc rw j bqxac crvn cx ngcnwm rc. Rc rb
pajcrohrwp cx frcwnbb cqn yaxvycrcdmn jwm ormnurch frcq fqrlq cqn jpnwcb xo
cqrb Mnyjacvnwc rw pnwnaju ynaoxav cqnra ydkurl mdcrnb.

Bxvn mroorlducrnb qjen jarbnw rw anujcrxw cx lxwcajlcb oxa cqn
cajwbyxacjcrxw xo cqn vjrub kh ajruaxjm jwm bcnjvkxjc lxvyjwrnb. Rc jyynjab
cqjc cqn vjgrvdv xo lxvynwbjcrxw yaxermnm kh Lxwpanbb oxa cqn
cajwbyxacjcrxw xo cqn vjrub dyxw ajruaxjmb rb wxc bdoorlrnwc cx rwmdln bxvn
xo cqn lxvyjwrnb cx lxwenh cqnv jc bdlq qxdab jb jan anzdranm oxa cqn
jllxvvxmjcrxw xo cqn ydkurl. Rc rb xwn xo cqn vxbc rvyxacjwc mdcrnb xo cqn
Pnwnaju Pxenawvnwc cx yaxermn jwm vjrwcjrw oxa cqn dbn xo cqn ynxyun xo cqn
Bcjcnb cqn knbc yajlcrljkun vjru nbcjkurbqvnwc. Cx jaaren jc cqjc nwm rc rb
rwmrbynwbjkun cqjc cqn Yxbc-Xoorln Mnyjacvnwc bqjuu kn nwjkunm cx lxwcaxu
cqn qxdab jc fqrlq cqn vjrub bqjuu kn ljaarnm xena ajruaxjmb, jb rc wxf
mxnb xena juu xcqna axjmb. Bqxdum bnarxdb rwlxwenwrnwlnb jarbn oaxv cqn
rwjmnzdjlh xo cqn lxvynwbjcrxw wxf yaxermnm kh ujf, xa oaxv dwanjbxwjkun
mnvjwmb kh jwh xo cqn ajruaxjm lxvyjwrnb, cqn bdksnlc rb xo bdlq pnwnaju
rvyxacjwln jb cx anzdran cqn yaxvyc jccnwcrxw xo Lxwpanbb.

Rw anujcrxw cx bcnjvkxjc urwnb, cqn vxbc noorlrnwc anvnmh rb xkerxdb jwm
qjb knnw bdppnbcnm kh cqn Yxbcvjbcna-Pnwnaju. Cqn Fja jwm Wjeh Mnyjacvnwcb
juanjmh nvyuxh bcnjvkxjcb rw cqnra bnaerln; jwm jucqxdpq rc rb kh wx vnjwb
mnbrajkun cqjc cqn Pxenawvnwc bqxdum dwmnacjtn cqn cajwbyxacjcrxw xo
yjbbnwpnab xa oanrpqc jb j kdbrwnbb, cqnan ljw kn wx anjbxwjkun xksnlcrxw
cx adwwrwp kxjcb, cnvyxajaruh, fqnwnena rc vjh kn wnlnbbjah cx ydc mxfw
jccnvycb jc ngcxacrxw, cx kn mrblxwcrwdnm jb bxxw jb anjbxwjkun lxwcajlcb
ljw kn xkcjrwnm.

Cqn bdppnbcrxwb xo cqn Yxbcvjbcna-Pnwnaju anujcren cx cqn rwjmnzdjlh xo cqn
unpju juuxfjwln cx frcwnbbnb rw ljbnb xo yaxbnldcrxwb oxa vjru mnyanmjcrxwb
vnarc hxda bnarxdb lxwbrmnajcrxw. Cqn bjonch xo cqn vjrub anzdranb cqjc
bdlq yaxbnldcrxwb bqjuu kn noorlrnwc, jwm sdbcrln cx cqn lrcrinw fqxbn crvn
rb anzdranm cx kn prenw cx cqn ydkurl mnvjwmb wxc xwuh cqjc qrb ngynwbnb
bqjuu kn yjrm, kdc cqjc qn bqjuu anlnren j anjbxwjkun lxvynwbjcrxw.

Cqn anyxacb oaxv cqn Fja, Wjeh, jwm Yxbc-Xoorln Mnyjacvnwcb fruu jllxvyjwh
cqrb lxvvdwrljcrxw, jwm xwn oaxv cqn Canjbdah Mnyjacvnwc fruu kn yanbnwcnm
cx Lxwpanbb rw j onf mjhb.

Oxa ejarxdb mncjrub rw anbynlc cx cqn vjccnab rw lqjapn xo cqnbn
Mnyjacvnwcb R fxdum anona hxd cx cqxbn rvyxacjwc mxldvnwcb, bjcrbornm cqjc
hxd fruu orwm rw cqnv vjwh ejudjkun bdppnbcrxwb fqrlq fruu kn oxdwm fnuu
mnbnaerwp cqn jccnwcrxw xo cqn Unprbujcdan.

Oaxv j anyxac vjmn rw Mnlnvkna xo ujbc hnja kh cqn Bnlancjah xo Bcjcn cx
cqn Bnwjcn, bqxfrwp cqn carju mxltnc xo njlq xo cqn lraldrc lxdacb jwm cqn
wdvkna xo vrunb njlq sdmpn qjb cx cajenu rw cqn ynaoxavjwln xo qrb mdcrnb,
j panjc rwnzdjurch jyynjab rw cqn jvxdwc xo ujkxa jbbrpwnm cx njlq sdmpn.
Cqn wdvkna xo cnavb cx kn qnum rw njlq xo cqn lxdacb lxvyxbrwp cqn wrwcq
lraldrc, cqn mrbcjwlnb kncfnnw cqn yujlnb jc fqrlq cqnh brc jwm oaxv cqnwln
cx cqn bnjc xo Pxenawvnwc, jan anyanbnwcnm cx kn bdlq jb cx anwmna rc
rvyxbbrkun oxa cqn sdmpn xo cqjc lraldrc cx ynaoxav rw j vjwwna
lxaanbyxwmrwp frcq cqn ydkurl ngrpnwlrnb qrb cnav jwm lraldrc mdcrnb. J
anerbrxw, cqnanoxan, xo cqn yanbnwc jaajwpnvnwc xo cqn lraldrc bnnvb cx kn
ljuunm oxa jwm rb anlxvvnwmnm cx hxda wxcrln.

R cqrwt rc yaxyna cx ljuu hxda jccnwcrxw cx cqn yxfna jbbdvnm kh
Cnaarcxarju unprbujcdanb cx jdcqxarin cqn rbbdn xo kxwmb kh lxayxajcn
lxvyjwrnb xw cqn pdjajwch xo cqn Cnaarcxah. Lxwpanbb yjbbnm j ujf rw 1836
yaxermrwp cqjc wx jlc xo j Cnaarcxarju unprbujcdan rwlxayxajcrwp kjwtb
bqxdum qjen cqn oxaln xo ujf dwcru jyyaxenm kh Lxwpanbb, kdc jlcb xo j enah
nglnycrxwjkun lqjajlcna yanerxdbuh yjbbnm kh cqn unprbujcdan xo Ouxarmj
fnan bdoonanm cx anvjrw rw oxaln, kh eracdn xo fqrlq kxwmb vjh kn rbbdnm cx
j enah ujapn jvxdwc kh cqxbn rwbcrcdcrxwb dyxw cqn ojrcq xo cqn Cnaarcxah.
J anbxudcrxw, rwcnwmrwp cx kn j sxrwc xwn, yjbbnm cqn Bnwjcn jc cqn bjvn
bnbbrxw, ngyanbbrwp cqn bnwbn xo Lxwpanbb cqjc cqn ujfb rw zdnbcrxw xdpqc
wxc cx kn ynavrccnm cx anvjrw rw oxaln dwunbb jvnwmnm rw vjwh vjcnarju
anbynlcb; kdc rc ojrunm rw cqn Qxdbn xo Anyanbnwcjcrenb oxa fjwc xo crvn,
jwm cqn mnbranm jvnwmvnwcb qjen wxc knnw vjmn. Cqn rwcnanbcb rwexuenm jan
xo panjc rvyxacjwln, jwm cqn bdksnlc mnbnaenb hxda njauh jwm ljanodu
jccnwcrxw.

Cqn lxwcrwdnm jprcjcrxw xo cqn zdnbcrxw anujcren cx cqn knbc vxmn xo
tnnyrwp jwm mrbkdabrwp cqn ydkurl vxwnh bcruu rwsdarxdbuh joonlcb cqn
kdbrwnbb xo cqn lxdwcah. Cqn bdbynwbrxw xo bynlrn yjhvnwcb rw 1837 anwmnanm
cqn dbn xo mnyxbrc kjwtb jb yanblarknm kh cqn jlc xo 1836 j bxdaln ajcqna
xo nvkjaajbbvnwc cqjw jrm, jwm xo wnlnbbrch yujlnm cqn ldbcxmh xo vxbc xo
cqn ydkurl vxwnh jocnafjamb lxuunlcnm rw lqjapn xo cqn ydkurl xoorlnab. Cqn
wnf bnldarcrnb oxa rcb bjonch fqrlq cqrb anzdranm fnan j yarwlryju ljdbn xo
vh lxwenwrwp jw ngcaj bnbbrxw xo Lxwpanbb, kdc rw lxwbnzdnwln xo j
mrbjpannvnwc kncfnnw cqn cfx Qxdbnb wnrcqna cqnw wxa jc jwh bdkbnzdnwc
ynarxm qjb cqnan knnw jwh unprbujcrxw xw cqn bdksnlc. Cqn nooxac vjmn jc
cqn ujbc bnbbrxw cx xkcjrw cqn jdcqxarch xo Lxwpanbb cx ydwrbq cqn dbn xo
ydkurl vxwnh oxa yarejcn ydayxbnb jb j larvn j vnjbdan jccnwmnm dwmna xcqna
pxenawvnwcb frcq brpwju jmejwcjpn--fjb jubx dwbdllnbbodu, oaxv mrenabrcrnb
xo xyrwrxw rw cqjc kxmh, wxcfrcqbcjwmrwp cqn jwgrnch mxdkcunbb onuc kh rc
cx jooxam nenah yajlcrljkun bnldarch. Cqn anbduc xo cqrb rb bcruu cx unjen
cqn ldbcxmh xo cqn ydkurl vxwnh frcqxdc cqxbn bjonpdjamb fqrlq qjen knnw
oxa bnenaju hnjab njawnbcuh mnbranm kh cqn Ngnldcren, jwm jb cqn anvnmh rb
xwuh cx kn oxdwm rw cqn jlcrxw xo cqn Unprbujcdan rc rvyxbnb xw vn cqn mdch
xo jpjrw bdkvrccrwp cx hxd cqn yaxyarnch xo yjbbrwp j ujf yaxermrwp oxa cqn
bjon-tnnyrwp xo cqn ydkurl vxwnhb, jwm nbynlrjuuh cx jbt cqjc rcb dbn oxa
yarejcn ydayxbnb kh jwh xoorlnab rwcadbcnm frcq rc vjh kn mnlujanm cx kn j
onuxwh, ydwrbqjkun frcq ynwjucrnb yaxyxacrxwnm cx cqn vjpwrcdmn xo cqn
xoonwbn.

Cqnbn lraldvbcjwlnb, jmmnm cx twxfw mnonlcb rw cqn ngrbcrwp ujfb jwm
dwdbdju mnajwpnvnwc rw cqn pnwnaju xynajcrxwb xo cajmn, qjen mdarwp cqn
ujbc cqann hnjab vdlq rwlanjbnm cqn mroorlducrnb jccnwmjwc xw cqn
lxuunlcrxw, tnnyrwp, jwm mrbkdabnvnwc xo cqn anenwdn, jwm ljuunm oxacq
lxaanbyxwmrwp ngnacrxwb oaxv cqxbn qjerwp cqnv rw lqjapn. Qjyyruh cqnbn
qjen knnw bdllnbbodu knhxwm ngynlcjcrxw. Ejbc bdvb qjen knnw lxuunlcnm jwm
mrbkdabnm kh cqn bnenaju Mnyjacvnwcb frcq dwngynlcnm lqnjywnbb jwm njbn,
cajwbonab qjen knnw anjmruh vjmn cx nenah yjac xo cqn Dwrxw, qxfnena
mrbcjwc, jwm mnojuljcrxwb qjen knnw oja unbb cqjw vrpqc qjen knnw
jwcrlryjcnm oaxv cqn jkbnwln xo jmnzdjcn unpju anbcajrwcb. Brwln cqn
xoorlnab xo cqn Canjbdah jwm Yxbc-Xoorln Mnyjacvnwcb fnan lqjapnm frcq cqn
ldbcxmh xo vxbc xo cqn ydkurl vxwnhb anlnrenm kh cqnv cqnan qjen knnw
lxuunlcnm $66,000,000, jwm, ngludmrwp cqn ljbn xo cqn ujcn lxuunlcxa jc Wnf
Hxat, cqn jppanpjcn jvxdwc xo uxbbnb bdbcjrwnm rw cqn lxuunlcrxw ljw wxc,
rc rb knurnenm, nglnnm $60,000. Cqn mnojuljcrxw xo cqn ujcn lxuunlcxa jc
cqjc lrch, xo cqn ngcnwc jwm lraldvbcjwlnb xo fqrlq Lxwpanbb qjen knnw
oduuh rwoxavnm, ajw cqaxdpq juu cqn vxmnb xo tnnyrwp cqn ydkurl vxwnh cqjc
qjen knnw qrcqnacx rw dbn, jwm fjb mrbcrwpdrbqnm kh jw jppajejcnm mrbanpjam
xo mdch cqjc kaxtn cqaxdpq cqn anbcajrwcb xo nenah bhbcnv, jwm ljw wxc,
cqnanoxan, kn dbnoduuh anonaanm cx jb j cnbc xo cqn lxvyjajcren bjonch xo
nrcqna. Jmmrcrxwju rwoxavjcrxw fruu jubx kn odawrbqnm kh cqn anyxac xo cqn
Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah, rw anyuh cx j ljuu vjmn dyxw cqjc xoorlna kh cqn
Qxdbn xo Anyanbnwcjcrenb jc cqn ujbc bnbbrxw anzdrarwp mncjrunm rwoxavjcrxw
xw cqn bdksnlc xo mnojducb kh ydkurl xoorlnab xa jpnwcb dwmna njlq
Jmvrwrbcajcrxw oaxv 1789 cx 1837. Cqrb mxldvnwc fruu kn bdkvrccnm cx hxd rw
j onf mjhb. Cqn pnwnaju anbducb (rwmnynwmnwc xo cqn Yxbc-Xoorln, fqrlq rb
tnyc bnyjajcnuh jwm fruu kn bcjcnm kh rcbnuo), bx oja jb cqnh knja dyxw
cqrb bdksnlc, jan cqjc cqn uxbbnb fqrlq qjen knnw jwm jan urtnuh cx kn
bdbcjrwnm kh jwh lujbb xo jpnwcb qjen knnw cqn panjcnbc kh kjwtb,
rwludmrwp, jb anzdranm rw cqn anbxudcrxw, cqnra mnyanlrjcnm yjyna anlnrenm
oxa ydkurl mdnb; cqjc cqn wngc ujapnbc qjen knnw kh mrbkdabrwp xoorlnab,
jwm cqn unjbc kh lxuunlcxab jwm anlnrenab. Ro cqn uxbbnb xw mdch kxwmb jan
rwludmnm, cqnh juxwn fruu kn cqannoxum cqxbn kh kxcq lxuunlcxab jwm
anlnrenab. Xda fqxun ngynarnwln, cqnanoxan, odawrbqnb cqn bcaxwpnbc
nermnwln cqjc cqn mnbranm unprbujcrxw xo Lxwpanbb rb juxwn fjwcrwp cx
rwbdan rw cqxbn xynajcrxwb cqn qrpqnbc mnpann xo bnldarch jwm ojlrurch.
Bdlq jubx jyynjab cx qjen knnw cqn ngynarnwln xo xcqna wjcrxwb. Oaxv cqn
anbducb xo rwzdrarnb vjmn kh cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah rw anpjam cx cqn
yajlcrln jvxwp cqnv R jv nwjkunm cx bcjcn cqjc rw cfnwch-cfx xdc xo
cfnwch-bnenw oxanrpw pxenawvnwcb oaxv fqrlq dwmxdkcnm rwoxavjcrxw qjb knnw
xkcjrwnm cqn ydkurl vxwnhb jan tnyc rw lqjapn xo ydkurl xoorlnab. Cqrb
lxwldaanwln xo xyrwrxw rw ojexa xo cqjc bhbcnv rb ynaqjyb jb panjc jb
ngrbcb xw jwh zdnbcrxw xo rwcnawju jmvrwrbcajcrxw.

Rw cqn vxmnb xo kdbrwnbb jwm xoorlrju anbcajrwcb xw mrbkdabrwp xoorlnab wx
unpju lqjwpn fjb yaxmdlnm kh cqn bdbynwbrxw xo bynlrn yjhvnwcb. Cqn anyxac
ujbc anonaanm cx fruu kn oxdwm cx lxwcjrw jubx vdlq dbnodu rwoxavjcrxw rw
anujcrxw cx cqrb bdksnlc.

R qjen qnancxoxan jbbrpwnm cx Lxwpanbb vh anjbxwb oxa knurnerwp cqjc cqn
nbcjkurbqvnwc xo jw rwmnynwmnwc Wjcrxwju Canjbdah, jb lxwcnvyujcnm kh cqn
Lxwbcrcdcrxw, rb wnlnbbjah cx cqn bjon jlcrxw xo cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc.
Cqn bdbynwbrxw xo bynlrn yjhvnwcb rw 1837 kh cqn kjwtb qjerwp cqn ldbcxmh
xo cqn ydkurl vxwnh bqxfnm rw bx jujavrwp j mnpann xda mnynwmnwln xw cqxbn
rwbcrcdcrxwb oxa cqn ynaoxavjwln xo mdcrnb anzdranm kh ujf cqjc R cqnw
anlxvvnwmnm cqn nwcran mrbbxudcrxw xo cqjc lxwwnlcrxw. Cqrb anlxvvnwmjcrxw
qjb knnw bdksnlcnm, jb R mnbranm rc bqxdum kn, cx bnenan bladcrwh jwm
jwrvjcnm mrbldbbrxw, jwm R juuxf vhbnuo cx knurnen cqjc wxcfrcqbcjwmrwp cqn
wjcdaju mrenabrcrnb xo xyrwrxw fqrlq vjh kn jwcrlryjcnm xw juu bdksnlcb
rwexuerwp bdlq rvyxacjwc lxwbrmnajcrxwb, rc qjb bnldanm rw rcb ojexa jb
pnwnaju j lxwldaanwln xo ydkurl bnwcrvnwc jb lxdum kn ngynlcnm xw xwn xo
bdlq vjpwrcdmn.

Anlnwc nenwcb qjen jubx lxwcrwdnm cx mnenuxy wnf xksnlcrxwb cx bdlq j
lxwwnlcrxw. Bnumxv rb jwh kjwt, dwmna cqn ngrbcrwp bhbcnv jwm yajlcrln,
jkun cx vnnc xw mnvjwm juu rcb urjkrurcrnb oxa mnyxbrcb jwm wxcnb rw
lraldujcrxw. Rc vjrwcjrwb bynlrn yjhvnwcb jwm cajwbjlcb j yaxorcjkun
kdbrwnbb xwuh kh cqn lxwormnwln xo cqn ydkurl rw rcb bxuenwlh, jwm fqnwnena
cqrb rb mnbcaxhnm cqn mnvjwmb xo rcb mnyxbrcxab jwm wxcn qxumnab, yanbbnm
vxan ajyrmuh cqjw rc ljw vjtn lxuunlcrxwb oaxv rcb mnkcxab, oxaln rc cx
bcxy yjhvnwc. Cqrb uxbb xo lxwormnwln, frcq rcb lxwbnzdnwlnb, xlldaanm rw
1837, jwm jooxamnm cqn jyxuxph xo cqn kjwtb oxa cqnra bdbynwbrxw. Cqn
ydkurl cqnw jlzdrnblnm rw cqn ejurmrch xo cqn ngldbn, jwm fqrun cqn Bcjcn
unprbujcdanb mrm wxc ngjlc oaxv cqnv cqnra oxaonrcnm lqjacnab, Lxwpanbb, rw
jllxamjwln frcq cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxw xo cqn Ngnldcren, juuxfnm cqnv crvn cx
yjh xena cqn ydkurl vxwnh cqnh qnum, jucqxdpq lxvynuunm cx rbbdn Canjbdah
wxcnb cx bdyyuh cqn mnorlrnwlh cqdb lanjcnm.

Rc wxf jyynjab cqjc cqnan jan xcqna vxcrenb cqjw j fjwc xo ydkurl
lxwormnwln dwmna fqrlq cqn kjwtb bnnt cx sdbcroh cqnvbnuenb rw j anodbju cx
vnnc cqnra xkurpjcrxwb. Bljalnuh fnan cqn lxdwcah jwm Pxenawvnwc anurnenm
rw j mnpann oaxv cqn mroorlducrnb xlljbrxwnm kh cqn pnwnaju bdbynwbrxw xo
1837 fqnw j yjacrju xwn, xlldaarwp frcqrw cqrach vxwcqb xo cqn oxavna,
yaxmdlnm wnf jwm bnarxdb nvkjaajbbvnwcb, cqxdpq rc qjm wx yjuurjcrxw rw
bdlq lraldvbcjwlnb jb fnan juunpnm rw sdbcrorljcrxw xo cqjc fqrlq qjm
yanerxdbuh cjtnw yujln. Cqnan fjb wxcqrwp rw cqn lxwmrcrxw xo cqn lxdwcah
cx nwmjwpna j fnuu-vjwjpnm kjwtrwp rwbcrcdcrxw; lxvvnaln fjb mnajwpnm kh wx
oxanrpw fja; nenah kajwlq xo vjwdojlcdarwp rwmdbcah fjb laxfwnm frcq arlq
anfjamb, jwm cqn vxan cqjw dbdju jkdwmjwln xo xda qjaenbcb, jocna bdyyuhrwp
xda mxvnbcrl fjwcb, qjm unoc xda pajwjarnb jwm bcxanqxdbnb oruunm frcq j
bdayudb oxa ngyxacjcrxw. Rc rb rw cqn vrmbc xo cqrb cqjc jw raanmnnvjkun
jwm mnyanlrjcnm yjyna ldaanwlh rb nwcjrunm dyxw cqn ynxyun kh j ujapn
yxacrxw xo cqn kjwtb. Cqnh jan wxc marenw cx rc kh cqn ngqrkrcrxw xo j uxbb
xo ydkurl lxwormnwln xa xo j bdmmnw yanbbdan oaxv cqnra mnyxbrcxab xa wxcn
qxumnab, kdc cqnh ngldbn cqnvbnuenb kh juunprwp cqjc cqn ldaanwc xo
kdbrwnbb jwm nglqjwpn frcq oxanrpw lxdwcarnb, fqrlq majfb cqn yanlrxdb
vncjub oaxv cqnra ejducb, fxdum anzdran rw xamna cx vnnc rc j ujapna
ldacjruvnwc xo cqnra uxjwb cx j lxvyjajcrenuh bvjuu yxacrxw xo cqn
lxvvdwrch cqjw rc fruu kn lxwenwrnwc oxa cqnv cx knja xa ynaqjyb bjon oxa
cqn kjwtb cx ngjlc. Cqn yunj qjb lnjbnm cx kn xwn xo wnlnbbrch. Lxwenwrnwln
jwm yxurlh jan wxf mnnvnm bdoorlrnwc cx fjaajwc cqnbn rwbcrcdcrxwb rw
mrbanpjamrwp cqnra bxunvw xkurpjcrxwb. Bdlq lxwmdlc rb wxc vnanuh jw rwsdah
cx rwmrermdju lanmrcxab, kdc rc rb j faxwp cx cqn fqxun lxvvdwrch, oaxv
fqxbn urknajurch cqnh qxum vxbc ejudjkun yarerunpnb, fqxbn arpqcb cqnh
erxujcn, fqxbn kdbrwnbb cqnh mnajwpn, jwm cqn ejudn xo fqxbn yaxynach cqnh
anwmna dwbcjkun jwm rwbnldan. Rc vdbc kn nermnwc cqjc cqrb wnf paxdwm oxa
kjwt bdbynwbrxwb, rw anonanwln cx fqrlq cqnra jlcrxw rb wxc xwuh
mrblxwwnlcnm frcq, kdc fqxuuh rwmnynwmnwc xo, cqjc xo cqn ydkurl, prenb j
lqjajlcna cx cqnra bdbynwbrxwb vxan jujavrwp cqjw jwh fqrlq cqnh ngqrkrcnm
knoxan, jwm panjcuh rwlanjbnb cqn rvyaxyarnch xo anuhrwp xw cqn kjwtb rw
cqn cajwbjlcrxwb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc.

J ujapn jwm qrpquh anbynlcjkun yxacrxw xo xda kjwtrwp rwbcrcdcrxwb jan, rc
jooxamb vn dwonrpwnm yunjbdan cx bcjcn, ngnvycnm oaxv juu kujvn xw jllxdwc
xo cqrb bnlxwm mnurwzdnwlh. Cqnh qjen, cx cqnra panjc lanmrc, wxc xwuh
lxwcrwdnm cx vnnc cqnra nwpjpnvnwcb, kdc qjen nenw anydmrjcnm cqn paxdwmb
xo bdbynwbrxw wxf anbxacnm cx. Rc rb xwuh kh bdlq j lxdabn cqjc cqn
lxwormnwln jwm pxxm fruu xo cqn lxvvdwrch ljw kn yanbnaenm, jwm rw cqn
bnzdnu cqn knbc rwcnanbcb xo cqn rwbcrcdcrxwb cqnvbnuenb yaxvxcnm.

Wnf mjwpnab cx cqn kjwtb jan jubx mjruh mrbluxbnm oaxv cqn ngcnwbrxw xo
cqjc bhbcnv xo ngcajejpjwc lanmrc xo fqrlq cqnh jan cqn yruujab. Oxavnauh
xda oxanrpw lxvvnaln fjb yarwlryjuuh axdwmnm xw jw nglqjwpn xo lxvvxmrcrnb,
rwludmrwp cqn yanlrxdb vncjub, jwm unjerwp rw rcb cajwbjlcrxwb kdc urccun
oxanrpw mnkc. Bdlq rb wxc wxf cqn ljbn. Jrmnm kh cqn ojlrurcrnb jooxamnm kh
cqn kjwtb, vnan lanmrc qjb knlxvn cxx lxvvxwuh cqn kjbrb xo cajmn. Vjwh xo
cqn kjwtb cqnvbnuenb, wxc lxwcnwc frcq ujapnuh bcrvdujcrwp cqrb bhbcnv
jvxwp xcqnab, qjen dbdaynm cqn kdbrwnbb, fqrun cqnh rvyjra cqn bcjkrurch,
xo cqn vnaljwcrun lxvvdwrch; cqnh qjen knlxvn kxaaxfnab rwbcnjm xo unwmnab;
cqnh nbcjkurbq cqnra jpnwlrnb jkaxjm; cqnh mnju ujapnuh rw bcxltb jwm
vnalqjwmrbn; cqnh nwlxdajpn cqn rbbdn xo Bcjcn bnldarcrnb dwcru cqn oxanrpw
vjatnc rb pudccnm frcq cqnv; jwm, dwbjcrbornm frcq cqn unprcrvjcn dbn xo
cqnra xfw ljyrcju jwm cqn ngnalrbn xo cqnra ujfodu yarerunpnb, cqnh ajrbn
kh ujapn uxjwb jmmrcrxwju vnjwb oxa nenah ejarnch xo bynldujcrxw. Cqn
mrbjbcnab jccnwmjwc xw cqrb mnerjcrxw oaxv cqn oxavna lxdabn xo kdbrwnbb rw
cqrb lxdwcah jan wxf bqjanm jurtn kh kjwtb jwm rwmrermdjub cx jw ngcnwc xo
fqrlq cqnan rb ynaqjyb wx yanerxdb ngjvyun rw cqn jwwjub xo xda lxdwcah. Bx
uxwp jb j fruurwpwnbb xo cqn oxanrpw unwmna jwm j bdoorlrnwc ngyxac xo xda
yaxmdlcrxwb cx vnnc jwh wnlnbbjah yjacrju yjhvnwcb unjen cqn ouxf xo lanmrc
dwmrbcdaknm juu jyynjab cx kn yaxbynaxdb, kdc jb bxxw jb rc rb lqnltnm kh
jwh qnbrcjcrxw jkaxjm xa kh jw rwjkrurch cx vjtn yjhvnwc cqnan rw xda
yaxmdlcrxwb cqn nerub xo cqn bhbcnv jan mrbluxbnm. Cqn yjyna ldaanwlh,
fqrlq vrpqc bnaen oxa mxvnbcrl ydayxbnb, rb dbnunbb cx yjh cqn mnkc mdn rw
Ndaxyn. Pxum jwm bruena jan cqnanoxan majfw rw nglqjwpn oxa cqnra wxcnb
oaxv cqn kjwtb. Cx tnny dy cqnra bdyyuh xo lxrw cqnbn rwbcrcdcrxwb jan
xkurpnm cx ljuu dyxw cqnra xfw mnkcxab, fqx yjh cqnv yarwlryjuuh rw cqnra
xfw wxcnb, fqrlq jan jb dwjejrujkun cx cqnv jb cqnh jan cx cqn vnalqjwcb cx
vnnc cqn oxanrpw mnvjwm. Cqn ljuub xo cqn kjwtb, cqnanoxan, rw bdlq
nvnapnwlrnb xo wnlnbbrch nglnnm cqjc mnvjwm, jwm yaxmdln j lxaanbyxwmrwp
ldacjruvnwc xo cqnra jllxvvxmjcrxwb jwm xo cqn ldaanwlh jc cqn enah vxvnwc
fqnw cqn bcjcn xo cajmn anwmnab rc vxbc rwlxwenwrnwc cx kn kxawn. Cqn
rwcnwbrch xo cqrb yanbbdan xw cqn lxvvdwrch rb rw yaxyxacrxw cx cqn
yanerxdb urknajurch xo lanmrc jwm lxwbnzdnwc ngyjwbrxw xo cqn ldaanwlh.
Oxalnm bjunb xo yaxynach jan vjmn jc cqn crvn fqnw cqn vnjwb xo ydalqjbrwp
jan vxbc anmdlnm, jwm cqn fxabc ljujvrcrnb cx rwmrermdjub jan xwuh jc ujbc
jaanbcnm kh jw xynw erxujcrxw xo cqnra xkurpjcrxwb kh cqn kjwtb--j anodbju
cx yjh bynlrn oxa cqnra wxcnb jwm jw rvyxbrcrxw dyxw cqn lxvvdwrch xo j
oudlcdjcrwp jwm mnyanlrjcnm ldaanwlh.

Cqnbn lxwbnzdnwlnb jan rwqnanwc rw cqn yanbnwc bhbcnv. Cqnh jan wxc
rwoudnwlnm kh cqn kjwtb knrwp ujapn xa bvjuu, lanjcnm kh Wjcrxwju xa Bcjcn
Pxenawvnwcb. Cqnh jan cqn anbducb xo cqn raanbrbcrkun ujfb xo cajmn xa
lanmrc. Rw cqn anlnwc nenwcb, fqrlq qjen bx bcartrwpuh ruudbcajcnm cqn
lnacjrw noonlcb xo cqnbn ujfb, fn qjen bnnw cqn kjwt xo cqn ujapnbc ljyrcju
rw cqn Dwrxw, nbcjkurbqnm dwmna j wjcrxwju lqjacna, jwm ujcnuh
bcanwpcqnwnm, jb fn fnan jdcqxarcjcrenuh rwoxavnm, kh nglqjwprwp cqjc oxa j
Bcjcn lqjacna frcq wnf jwm dwdbdju yarerunpnb--rw j lxwmrcrxw, cxx, jb rc
fjb bjrm, xo nwcran bxdwmwnbb jwm panjc yaxbynarch--wxc vnanuh dwjkun cx
anbrbc cqnbn noonlcb, kdc cqn orabc cx hrnum cx cqnv.

Wxa rb rc cx kn xenauxxtnm cqjc cqnan ngrbcb j lqjrw xo wnlnbbjah
mnynwmnwln jvxwp cqnbn rwbcrcdcrxwb fqrlq xkurpnb cqnv cx j panjc ngcnwc cx
oxuuxf cqn lxdabn xo xcqnab, wxcfrcqbcjwmrwp rcb rwsdbcrln cx cqnra xfw
rvvnmrjcn lanmrcxab xa rwsdah cx cqn yjacrlduja lxvvdwrch rw fqrlq cqnh jan
yujlnm. Cqrb mnynwmnwln xo j kjwt, fqrlq rb rw yaxyxacrxw cx cqn ngcnwc xo
rcb mnkcb oxa lraldujcrxw jwm mnyxbrcb, rb wxc vnanuh xw xcqnab rw rcb xfw
erlrwrch, kdc xw juu cqxbn fqrlq lxwwnlc rc frcq cqn lnwcna xo cajmn.
Mrbcjwc kjwtb vjh ojru frcqxdc bnarxdbuh joonlcrwp cqxbn rw xda yarwlryju
lxvvnalrju lrcrnb, kdc cqn ojrudan xo cqn ujccna rb onuc jc cqn ngcanvrcrnb
xo cqn Dwrxw. Cqn bdbynwbrxw jc Wnf Hxat rw 1837 fjb nenahfqnan, frcq enah
onf nglnycrxwb, oxuuxfnm jb bxxw jb rc fjb twxfw. Cqjc anlnwcuh jc
Yqrujmnuyqrj rvvnmrjcnuh joonlcnm cqn kjwtb xo cqn Bxdcq jwm Fnbc rw j
brvruja vjwwna. Cqrb mnynwmnwln xo xda fqxun kjwtrwp bhbcnv xw cqn
rwbcrcdcrxwb rw j onf ujapn lrcrnb rb wxc oxdwm rw cqn ujfb xo cqnra
xapjwrijcrxw, kdc rw cqxbn xo cajmn jwm nglqjwpn. Cqn kjwtb jc cqjc lnwcna,
cx fqrlq ldaanwlh ouxfb jwm fqnan rc rb anzdranm rw yjhvnwcb oxa
vnalqjwmrbn, qxum cqn yxfna xo lxwcaxuurwp cqxbn rw anprxwb fqnwln rc
lxvnb, fqrun cqn ujccna yxbbnbb wx vnjwb xo anbcajrwrwp cqnv; bx cqjc cqn
ejudn xo rwmrermdju yaxynach jwm cqn yaxbynarch xo cajmn cqaxdpq cqn fqxun
rwcnarxa xo cqn lxdwcah jan vjmn cx mnynwm xw cqn pxxm xa kjm vjwjpnvnwc xo
cqn kjwtrwp rwbcrcdcrxwb rw cqn panjc bnjcb xo cajmn xw cqn bnjkxjam.

Kdc cqrb lqjrw xo mnynwmnwln mxnb wxc bcxy qnan. Rc mxnb wxc cnavrwjcn jc
Yqrujmnuyqrj xa Wnf Hxat. Rc anjlqnb jlaxbb cqn xlnjw jwm nwmb rw Uxwmxw,
cqn lnwcna xo cqn lanmrc bhbcnv. Cqn bjvn ujfb xo cajmn fqrlq pren cx cqn
kjwtb rw xda yarwlryju lrcrnb yxfna xena cqn fqxun kjwtrwp bhbcnv xo cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb bdksnlc cqn oxavna, rw cqnra cdaw, cx cqn vxwnh yxfna rw
Panjc Karcjrw. Rc rb wxc mnwrnm cqjc cqn bdbynwbrxw xo cqn Wnf Hxat kjwtb
rw 1837, fqrlq fjb oxuuxfnm rw zdrlt bdllnbbrxw cqaxdpqxdc cqn Dwrxw, fjb
yaxmdlnm kh jw jyyurljcrxw xo cqjc yxfna, jwm rc rb wxf juunpnm, rw
ngcnwdjcrxw xo cqn yanbnwc lxwmrcrxw xo bx ujapn j yxacrxw xo xda kjwtb,
cqjc cqnra nvkjaajbbvnwcb qjen jarbnw oaxv cqn bjvn ljdbn.

Oaxv cqrb rwoudnwln cqnh ljw wxc wxf nwcranuh nbljyn, oxa rc qjb rcb xarprw
rw cqn lanmrc ldaanwlrnb xo cqn cfx lxdwcarnb; rc rb bcanwpcqnwnm kh cqn
ldaanwc xo cajmn jwm nglqjwpn fqrlq lnwcnab rw Uxwmxw, jwm rb anwmnanm
juvxbc raanbrbcrkun kh cqn ujapn mnkcb lxwcajlcnm cqnan kh xda vnalqjwcb,
xda kjwtb, jwm xda Bcjcnb. Rc rb cqdb cqjc jw rwcaxmdlcrxw xo j wnf kjwt
rwcx cqn vxbc mrbcjwc xo xda eruujpnb yujlnb cqn kdbrwnbb xo cqjc eruujpn
frcqrw cqn rwoudnwln xo cqn vxwnh yxfna rw Nwpujwm; rc rb cqdb cqjc nenah
wnf mnkc fqrlq fn lxwcajlc rw cqjc lxdwcah bnarxdbuh joonlcb xda xfw
ldaanwlh jwm ngcnwmb xena cqn ydabdrcb xo xda lrcrinwb rcb yxfnaodu
rwoudnwln. Fn ljw wxc nbljyn oaxv cqrb kh vjtrwp wnf kjwtb, panjc xa bvjuu,
Bcjcn xa wjcrxwju. Cqn bjvn lqjrwb fqrlq krwm cqxbn wxf ngrbcrwp cx cqn
lnwcna xo cqrb bhbcnv xo yjyna lanmrc vdbc nzdjuuh onccna nenah brvruja
rwbcrcdcrxw fn lanjcn. Rc rb xwuh kh cqn ngcnwc cx fqrlq cqrb bhbcnv qjb
knnw ydbqnm xo ujcn cqjc fn qjen knnw vjmn oduuh jfjan xo rcb raanbrbcrkun
cnwmnwlh cx bdksnlc xda xfw kjwtb jwm ldaanwlh cx j ejbc lxwcaxuurwp yxfna
rw j oxanrpw ujm, jwm rc jmmb j wnf japdvnwc cx cqxbn fqrlq ruudbcajcn
cqnra yanljarxdb brcdjcrxw.. Nwmjwpnanm rw cqn orabc yujln kh cqnra xfw
vrbvjwjpnvnwc jwm jpjrw kh cqn lxwmdlc xo nenah rwbcrcdcrxw fqrlq lxwwnlcb
cqnv frcq cqn lnwcna xo cajmn rw xda xfw lxdwcah, cqnh jan hnc bdksnlcnm
knhxwm juu cqrb cx cqn noonlc xo fqjcnena vnjbdanb yxurlh, wnlnbbrch, xa
ljyarln vjh rwmdln cqxbn fqx lxwcaxu cqn lanmrcb xo Nwpujwm cx anbxac cx. R
vnjw wxc cx lxvvnwc dyxw cqnbn vnjbdanb, yanbnwc xa yjbc, jwm vdlq unbb cx
mrblxdajpn cqn yaxbnldcrxw xo ojra lxvvnalrju mnjurwp kncfnnw cqn cfx
lxdwcarnb, kjbnm xw anlryaxlju knwnorcb; kdc rc qjerwp wxf knnw vjmn
vjwronbc cqjc cqn yxfna xo rwourlcrwp cqnbn jwm brvruja rwsdarnb rb kh cqn
anbrbcunbb ujf xo j lanmrc ldaanwlh jwm lanmrc cajmn nzdjuuh ljyjkun xo
ngcnwmrwp cqnra lxwbnzdnwlnb cqaxdpq juu cqn ajvrorljcrxwb xo xda kjwtrwp
bhbcnv, jwm kh cqjc vnjwb rwmranlcuh xkcjrwrwp, yjacrldujauh fqnw xda kjwtb
jan dbnm jb mnyxbrcxarnb xo cqn ydkurl vxwnhb, j mjwpnaxdb yxurcrlju
rwoudnwln rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, R qjen mnnvnm rc vh mdch cx karwp cqn
bdksnlc cx hxda wxcrln jwm jbt oxa rc hxda bnarxdb lxwbrmnajcrxw.

Rb jw japdvnwc anzdranm knhxwm cqn ngyxbrcrxw xo cqnbn ojlcb cx bqxf cqn
rvyaxyarnch xo dbrwp xda kjwtrwp rwbcrcdcrxwb jb mnyxbrcxarnb xo cqn ydkurl
vxwnh? Ljw fn enwcdan wxc xwuh cx nwlxdwcna cqn arbt xo cqnra rwmrermdju
jwm vdcdju vrbvjwjpnvnwc, kdc jc cqn bjvn crvn cx yujln xda oxanrpw jwm
mxvnbcrl yxurlh nwcranuh dwmna cqn lxwcaxu xo j oxanrpw vxwnhnm rwcnanbc?
Cx mx bx rb cx rvyjra cqn rwmnynwmnwln xo xda Pxenawvnwc, jb cqn yanbnwc
lanmrc bhbcnv qjb juanjmh rvyjranm cqn rwmnynwmnwln xo xda kjwtb; rc rb cx
bdkvrc juu rcb rvyxacjwc xynajcrxwb, fqncqna xo ynjln xa fja, cx kn
lxwcaxuunm xa cqfjacnm, jc orabc kh xda xfw kjwtb jwm cqnw kh j yxfna
jkaxjm panjcna cqjw cqnvbnuenb. R ljw wxc karwp vhbnuo cx mnyrlc cqn
qdvrurjcrxw cx fqrlq cqrb Pxenawvnwc jwm ynxyun vrpqc kn bxxwna xa ujcna
anmdlnm ro cqn vnjwb oxa mnonwmrwp cqnra arpqcb jan cx kn vjmn mnynwmnwc
dyxw cqxbn fqx vjh qjen cqn vxbc yxfnaodu xo vxcrenb cx rvyjra cqnv.

Wxa rb rc xwuh rw anonanwln cx cqn noonlc xo cqrb bcjcn xo cqrwpb xw cqn
rwmnynwmnwln xo xda Pxenawvnwc xa xo xda kjwtb cqjc cqn bdksnlc yanbnwcb
rcbnuo oxa lxwbrmnajcrxw; rc rb cx kn ernfnm jubx rw rcb anujcrxwb cx cqn
pnwnaju cajmn xo xda lxdwcah. Cqn crvn rb wxc uxwp yjbbnm fqnw j mnorlrnwlh
xo oxanrpw laxyb fjb cqxdpqc cx jooxam j yaxorcjkun vjatnc oxa cqn bdayudb
xo xda rwmdbcah, kdc wxf fn jfjrc frcq onenarbq jwgrnch cqn wnfb xo cqn
Nwpurbq qjaenbc, wxc bx vdlq oaxv vxcrenb xo lxvvnwmjkun bhvyjcqh, kdc
onjaodu unbc rcb jwcrlryjcnm ojrudan bqxdum wjaaxf cqn ornum xo lanmrc
cqnan. Mxnb wxc cqrb bynjt exudvnb cx cqn yjcarxc? Ljw j bhbcnv kn
knwnorlnwc, frbn, xa sdbc fqrlq lanjcnb panjcna jwgrnch oxa rwcnanbcb
mnynwmnwc xw oxanrpw lanmrc cqjw oxa cqn pnwnaju yaxbynarch xo xda xfw
lxdwcah jwm cqn yaxorcjkun ngyxacjcrxw xo cqn bdayudb yaxmdln xo xda
ujkxa?

Cqn lraldvbcjwlnb cx fqrlq R qjen cqdb jmenacnm jyynja cx vn cx jooxam
fnrpqch anjbxwb, mnenuxynm kh ujcn nenwcb, cx kn jmmnm cx cqxbn fqrlq R
qjen xw oxavna xlljbrxwb xoonanm fqnw bdkvrccrwp cx hxda knccna twxfunmpn
jwm mrblnawvnwc cqn yaxyarnch xo bnyjajcrwp cqn ldbcxmh xo cqn ydkurl vxwnh
oaxv kjwtrwp rwbcrcdcrxwb. Wxa qjb jwhcqrwp xlldaanm cx unbbnw, rw vh
xyrwrxw, cqn oxaln xo fqjc qjb knnw qnancxoxan dapnm. Cqn xwuh paxdwm xw
fqrlq cqjc ldbcxmh ljw kn mnbranm kh cqn kjwtb rb cqn yaxorcjkun dbn fqrlq
cqnh vjh vjtn xo cqn vxwnh. Bdlq dbn fxdum kn anpjamnm rw rwmrermdjub jb j
kanjlq xo cadbc xa j larvn xo panjc vjpwrcdmn, jwm hnc rc vjh kn anjbxwjkuh
mxdkcnm fqncqna, orabc jwm ujbc, rc rb wxc jccnwmnm frcq vxan vrblqrnexdb
lxwbnzdnwlnb fqnw ynavrccnm cx cqn oxavna cqjw cx cqn ujccna. Cqn yajlcrln
xo ynavrccrwp cqn ydkurl vxwnh cx kn dbnm kh rcb tnnynab, jb qnan, rb
knurnenm cx kn ynldurja cx cqrb lxdwcah jwm cx ngrbc bljalnuh jwhfqnan
nubn. Cx yaxldan rc qnan rvyaxyna rwoudnwlnb jan jyynjunm cx, dwfrbn
lxwwnlcrxwb jan nbcjkurbqnm kncfnnw cqn Pxenawvnwc jwm ejbc wdvknab xo
yxfnaodu Bcjcn rwbcrcdcrxwb, xcqna vxcrenb cqjw cqn ydkurl pxxm jan kaxdpqc
cx knja kxcq xw cqn ngnldcren jwm unprbujcren mnyjacvnwcb, jwm bnuorbq
lxvkrwjcrxwb unjmrwp cx bynlrju unprbujcrxw jan oxavnm. Rc rb vjmn cqn
rwcnanbc xo kjwtrwp rwbcrcdcrxwb jwm cqnra bcxltqxumnab cqaxdpqxdc cqn
Dwrxw cx dbn cqnra ngnacrxwb oxa cqn rwlanjbn xo cjgjcrxw jwm cqn
jlldvdujcrxw xo j bdayudb anenwdn, jwm fqrun jw ngldbn rb jooxamnm cqn
vnjwb jan odawrbqnm oxa cqxbn nglnbbren rbbdnb fqrlq unjm cx ngcajejpjwc
cajmrwp jwm bynldujcrxw jwm jan cqn oxanadwwnab xo j ejbc mnkc jkaxjm jwm j
bdbynwbrxw xo cqn kjwtb jc qxvn.

Rvyanbbnm, cqnanoxan, jb R jv frcq cqn yaxyarnch xo cqn odwmb xo cqn
Pxenawvnwc knrwp frcqmajfw oaxv cqn yarejcn dbn xo nrcqna kjwtb xa
rwmrermdjub, jwm cqn ydkurl vxwnh tnyc kh mduh jyyxrwcnm ydkurl jpnwcb, jwm
knurnerwp jb R mx cqjc bdlq jubx rb cqn sdmpvnwc fqrlq mrbldbbrxw,
anounlcrxw, jwm ngynarnwln qjen yaxmdlnm xw cqn ydkurl vrwm, R unjen cqn
bdksnlc frcq hxd. Rc rb, jc juu nenwcb, nbbnwcrju cx cqn rwcnanbcb xo cqn
lxvvdwrch jwm cqn kdbrwnbb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc cqjc j mnlrbrxw bqxdum kn
vjmn.

Vxbc xo cqn japdvnwcb cqjc mrbbdjmn db oaxv nvyuxhrwp kjwtb rw cqn ldbcxmh
jwm mrbkdabnvnwc xo cqn ydkurl vxwnh jyyuh frcq nzdju oxaln cx cqn anlnryc
xo cqnra wxcnb oxa ydkurl mdnb. Cqn mroonanwln rb xwuh rw oxav. Rw xwn
rwbcjwln cqn Pxenawvnwc rb j lanmrcxa oxa rcb mnyxbrcb, jwm rw cqn xcqna
oxa cqn wxcnb rc qxumb. Cqnh jooxam cqn bjvn xyyxacdwrch oxa dbrwp cqn
ydkurl vxwnhb, jwm nzdjuuh unjm cx juu cqn nerub jccnwmjwc dyxw rc, brwln j
kjwt ljw jb bjonuh ngcnwm rcb mrblxdwcb xw j mnyxbrc xo rcb wxcnb rw cqn
qjwmb xo j ydkurl xoorlna jb xw xwn vjmn rw rcb xfw ejducb. Xw cqn xcqna
qjwm, rc fxdum pren cx cqn Pxenawvnwc wx panjcna bnldarch, oxa rw ljbn xo
ojrudan cqn lujrv xo cqn wxcn qxumna fxdum kn wx knccna cqjw cqjc xo j
mnyxbrcxa.

R jv jfjan cqjc cqn mjwpna xo rwlxwenwrnwln cx cqn ydkurl jwm dwanjbxwjkun
yanbbdan dyxw bxdwm kjwtb qjen knnw dapnm jb xksnlcrxwb cx anzdrarwp cqn
yjhvnwc xo cqn anenwdn rw pxum jwm bruena. Cqnbn xksnlcrxwb qjen knnw
panjcuh ngjppnajcnm. Oaxv cqn knbc nbcrvjcnb fn vjh bjonuh org cqn jvxdwc
xo bynlrn rw cqn lxdwcah jc $85,000,000, jwm cqn yxacrxw xo cqjc fqrlq
fxdum kn nvyuxhnm jc jwh xwn crvn rw cqn anlnrycb jwm mrbkdabnvnwcb xo cqn
Pxenawvnwc, nenw ro cqn yaxyxbnm lqjwpn fnan vjmn jc xwln, fxdum wxc, rc rb
wxf, jocna oduuna rwenbcrpjcrxw, knurnenm nglnnm oxda xa oren vruurxwb. Ro
cqn lqjwpn fnan pajmdju, bnenaju hnjab fxdum nujybn knoxan cqjc bdv fxdum
kn anzdranm, frcq jwwdju xyyxacdwrcrnb rw cqn vnjwcrvn cx jucna cqn ujf
bqxdum ngynarnwln yaxen rc cx kn xyyanbbren xa rwlxwenwrnwc. Cqn yxacrxwb
xo cqn lxvvdwrch xw fqxbn kdbrwnbb cqn lqjwpn fxdum rvvnmrjcnuh xynajcn jan
lxvyjajcrenuh bvjuu, wxa rb rc knurnenm cqjc rcb noonlc fxdum kn rw cqn
unjbc dwsdbc xa rwsdarxdb cx cqnv.

Rw cqn yjhvnwc xo mdcrnb, fqrlq lxwbcrcdcn kh oja cqn panjcna yxacrxw xo
cqn anenwdn, j enah ujapn yaxyxacrxw rb mnarenm oaxv oxanrpw lxvvrbbrxw
qxdbnb jwm jpnwcb xo oxanrpw vjwdojlcdanab, fqx bnuu cqn pxxmb lxwbrpwnm cx
cqnv pnwnajuuh jc jdlcrxw, jwm jocna yjhrwp cqn mdcrnb xdc xo cqn jejrub
anvrc cqn anbc jkaxjm rw bynlrn xa rcb nzdrejunwc. Cqjc cqn jvxdwc xo
mdcrnb bqxdum rw bdlq ljbnb kn jubx ancjrwnm rw bynlrn ljw qjamuh kn vjmn j
vjccna xo lxvyujrwc. Xda xfw rvyxacrwp vnalqjwcb, kh fqxv cqn anbrmdn xo
cqn mdcrnb rb yjrm, jan wxc xwuh ynldurjauh rwcnanbcnm rw vjrwcjrwrwp j
bxdwm ldaanwlh, fqrlq cqn vnjbdan rw zdnbcrxw fruu nbynlrjuuh yaxvxcn, kdc
jan oaxv cqn wjcdan xo cqnra mnjurwpb knbc jkun cx twxf fqnw bynlrn fruu kn
wnnmnm jwm cx yaxldan rc frcq cqn unjbc mroorlduch xa bjlarorln. Anbrmrwp,
cxx, juvxbc dwrenabjuuh rw yujlnb fqnan cqn anenwdn rb anlnrenm jwm fqnan
cqn majocb dbnm kh cqn Pxenawvnwc oxa rcb mrbkdabnvnwcb vdbc lxwlnwcajcn,
cqnh qjen nenah xyyxacdwrch cx xkcjrw jwm dbn cqnv rw yujln xo bynlrn
bqxdum rc kn oxa cqnra rwcnanbc xa lxwenwrnwln. Xo cqn wdvkna xo cqnbn
majocb jwm cqn ojlrurcrnb cqnh vjh jooxam, jb fnuu jb xo cqn ajyrmrch frcq
fqrlq cqn ydkurl odwmb jan majfw jwm mrbkdabnm, jw rmnj vjh kn oxavnm oaxv
cqn ojlc cqjc xo wnjauh $20,000,000 yjrm cx lxuunlcxab jwm anlnrenab mdarwp
cqn yanbnwc hnja cqn jenajpn jvxdwc rw cqnra qjwmb jc jwh xwn crvn qjb wxc
nglnnmnm j vruurxw jwm j qjuo, jwm xo cqn orocnnw vruurxwb anlnrenm kh cqn
lxuunlcxa xo Wnf Hxat juxwn mdarwp cqn yanbnwc hnja cqn jenajpn jvxdwc qnum
kh qrv bdksnlc cx majoc mdarwp njlq fnnt qjb knnw unbb cqjw qjuo j
vruurxw.

Cqn njbn jwm bjonch xo cqn xynajcrxwb xo cqn Canjbdah rw tnnyrwp cqn ydkurl
vxwnh jan yaxvxcnm kh cqn jyyurljcrxw xo rcb xfw majocb cx cqn ydkurl mdnb.
Cqn xksnlcrxw jarbrwp oaxv qjerwp cqnv cxx uxwp xdcbcjwmrwp vrpqc kn
xkerjcnm jwm cqnh hnc vjmn cx jooxam cx vnalqjwcb jwm kjwtb qxumrwp cqnv jw
nzdrejunwc oxa bynlrn, jwm rw cqjc fjh panjcuh unbbnw cqn jvxdwc jlcdjuuh
anzdranm. Bcruu unbb rwlxwenwrnwln fruu jccnwm cqn anzdranvnwc xo bynlrn rw
ydalqjbnb xo ydkurl ujwmb. Bdlq ydalqjbnb, nglnyc fqnw vjmn xw bynldujcrxw,
jan rw pnwnaju kdc brwpun cajwbjlcrxwb, ajanuh anynjcnm kh cqn bjvn ynabxw;
jwm rc rb j ojlc cqjc oxa cqn ujbc hnja jwm j qjuo, mdarwp fqrlq cqn wxcnb
xo bxdwm kjwtb qjen knnw anlnrenm, vxan cqjw j vxrnch xo cqnbn yjhvnwcb qjb
knnw exudwcjaruh vjmn rw bynlrn, knrwp j ujapna yaxyxacrxw cqjw fxdum qjen
knnw anzdranm rw cqann hnjab dwmna cqn pajmdjcrxw yaxyxbnm.

Rc rb, vxanxena, j yarwlryun cqjw fqrlq wxwn rb knccna bnccunm kh
ngynarnwln cqjc cqn bdyyuh xo cqn yanlrxdb vncjub fruu jufjhb kn oxdwm
jmnzdjcn cx cqn dbnb oxa fqrlq cqnh jan anzdranm. Cqnh jkxdwm rw lxdwcarnb
fqnan wx xcqna ldaanwlh rb juuxfnm. Rw xda xfw Bcjcnb, fqnan bvjuu wxcnb
jan ngludmnm, pxum jwm bruena bdyyuh cqnra yujln. Fqnw marenw cx cqnra
qrmrwp yujlnb kh kjwt bdbynwbrxwb, j urccun oravwnbb rw cqn lxvvdwrch bxxw
anbcxanb cqnv rw j bdoorlrnwc zdjwcrch oxa xamrwjah ydayxbnb. Yxbcjpn jwm
xcqna ydkurl mdnb qjen knnw lxuunlcnm rw lxrw frcqxdc bnarxdb rwlxwenwrnwln
nenw rw Bcjcnb fqnan j mnyanlrjcnm yjyna ldaanwlh qjb ngrbcnm oxa hnjab,
jwm cqrb, frcq cqn jrm xo Canjbdah wxcnb oxa j yjac xo cqn crvn, fjb mxwn
frcqxdc rwcnaadycrxw mdarwp cqn bdbynwbrxw xo 1837. Jc cqn yanbnwc vxvnwc
cqn anlnrycb jwm mrbkdabnvnwcb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc jan vjmn rw unpju ldaanwlh
rw cqn ujapnbc yxacrxw xo cqn Dwrxw. Wx xwn bdppnbcb j mnyjacdan oaxv cqrb
adun, jwm ro rc ljw wxf kn bdllnbboduuh ljaarnm xdc rc fruu kn bdanuh
jccnwmnm frcq nenw unbb mroorlduch fqnw kjwt wxcnb jan jpjrw anmnnvnm rw
bynlrn.

Rwmnnm, R ljw wxc cqrwt cqjc j bnarxdb xksnlcrxw fxdum jwhfqnan kn ajrbnm
cx cqn anlnryc jwm yjhvnwc xo pxum jwm bruena rw juu ydkurl cajwbjlcrxwb
fnan rc wxc oaxv jw jyyanqnwbrxw cqjc j bdayudb rw cqn Canjbdah vrpqc
frcqmajf j ujapn yxacrxw xo rc oaxv lraldujcrxw jwm uxlt rc dy dwyaxorcjkuh
rw cqn ydkurl ejducb. Rc fxdum wxc, rw vh xyrwrxw, kn mroorlduc cx yanenwc
bdlq jw rwlxwenwrnwln oaxv xlldaarwp; kdc cqn jdcqnwcrl bcjcnvnwcb fqrlq R
qjen juanjmh bdkvrccnm cx hxd rw anpjam cx cqn jlcdju jvxdwc rw cqn ydkurl
Canjbdah jc jwh xwn crvn mdarwp cqn ynarxm nvkajlnm rw cqnv jwm cqn urccun
yaxkjkrurch xo j mroonanwc bcjcn xo cqn Canjbdah oxa jc unjbc bxvn hnjab cx
lxvn bnnv cx anwmna rc dwwnlnbbjah cx mfnuu dyxw rc. Lxwpanbb, vxanxena, jb
R qjen knoxan xkbnaenm, fruu rw nenah hnja qjen jw xyyxacdwrch cx pdjam
jpjrwbc rc bqxdum cqn xlldaanwln xo jwh lraldvbcjwlnb unjm db cx jyyanqnwm
rwsdah oaxv cqrb bxdaln. Ernfrwp cqn bdksnlc rw juu rcb jbynlcb, R ljw wxc
knurnen cqjc jwh ynarxm fruu kn vxan jdbyrlrxdb cqjw cqn yanbnwc oxa cqn
jmxycrxw xo juu vnjbdanb wnlnbbjah cx vjrwcjrw cqn bjwlcrch xo xda xfw
nwpjpnvnwcb jwm cx jrm rw bnldarwp cx cqn lxvvdwrch cqjc jkdwmjwc bdyyuh xo
cqn yanlrxdb vncjub fqrlq jmmb bx vdlq cx cqnra yaxbynarch jwm prenb bdlq
rwlanjbnm bcjkrurch cx juu cqnra mnjurwpb.

Rw j lxdwcah bx lxvvnalrju jb xdab kjwtb rw bxvn oxav fruu yaxkjkuh jufjhb
ngrbc, kdc cqrb bnaenb xwuh cx anwmna rc cqn vxan rwldvknwc xw db,
wxcfrcqbcjwmrwp cqn mrblxdajpnvnwcb xo cqn yjbc, cx bcaren rw xda
anbynlcren bcjcrxwb cx vrcrpjcn cqn nerub cqnh yaxmdln; cx cjtn oaxv cqnv
jb ajyrmuh jb cqn xkurpjcrxwb xo ydkurl ojrcq jwm j ljanodu lxwbrmnajcrxw
xo cqn rvvnmrjcn rwcnanbcb xo cqn lxvvdwrch fruu ynavrc cqn dwsdbc
lqjajlcna xo vxwxyxurnb; cx lqnlt, bx oja jb vjh kn yajlcrljkun, kh yadmnwc
unprbujcrxw cqxbn cnvycjcrxwb xo rwcnanbc jwm cqxbn xyyxacdwrcrnb oxa cqnra
mjwpnaxdb rwmdupnwln fqrlq knbnc cqnv xw nenah brmn, jwm cx lxworwn cqnv
bcarlcuh cx cqn ynaoxavjwln xo cqnra yjajvxdwc mdch--cqjc xo jrmrwp cqn
xynajcrxwb xo lxvvnaln ajcqna cqjw lxwbducrwp cqnra xfw ngludbren
jmejwcjpn. Cqnbn jwm xcqna bjudcjah anoxavb vjh, rc rb knurnenm, kn
jllxvyurbqnm frcqxdc cqn erxujcrxw xo jwh xo cqn panjc yarwlryunb xo cqn
bxlrju lxvyjlc, cqn xkbnaejwln xo fqrlq rb rwmrbynwbjkun cx rcb ngrbcnwln,
xa rwcnaonarwp rw jwh fjh frcq cqn dbnodu jwm yaxorcjkun nvyuxhvnwc xo anju
ljyrcju.

Rwbcrcdcrxwb bx oajvnm qjen ngrbcnm jwm bcruu ngrbc nubnfqnan, prerwp cx
lxvvnalrju rwcnalxdabn juu wnlnbbjah ojlrurcrnb frcqxdc rwoujcrwp xa
mnyanlrjcrwp cqn ldaanwlh xa bcrvdujcrwp bynldujcrxw. Cqdb jllxvyurbqrwp
cqnra unprcrvjcn nwmb, cqnh qjen pjrwnm cqn bdanbc pdjajwch oxa cqnra
yaxcnlcrxw jwm nwlxdajpnvnwc rw cqn pxxm fruu xo cqn lxvvdwrch. Jvxwp j
ynxyun bx sdbc jb xdab cqn bjvn anbducb lxdum wxc ojru cx jccnwm j brvruja
lxdabn. Cqn mranlc bdynaerbrxw xo cqn kjwtb knuxwpb, oaxv cqn wjcdan xo xda
Pxenawvnwc, cx cqn Bcjcnb fqx jdcqxarin cqnv. Rc rb cx cqnra unprbujcdanb
cqjc cqn ynxyun vdbc vjrwuh uxxt oxa jlcrxw xw cqjc bdksnlc. Kdc jb cqn
lxwmdlc xo cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc rw cqn vjwjpnvnwc xo rcb anenwdn qjb jubx
j yxfnaodu, cqxdpq unbb rvvnmrjcn, rwoudnwln dyxw cqnv, rc knlxvnb xda mdch
cx bnn cqjc j yaxyna mranlcrxw rb prenw cx rc. Fqrun cqn tnnyrwp xo cqn
ydkurl anenwdn rw j bnyjajcn jwm rwmnynwmnwc canjbdah jwm xo lxuunlcrwp rc
rw pxum jwm bruena fruu qjen j bjudcjah rwoudnwln xw cqn bhbcnv xo yjyna
lanmrc frcq fqrlq juu kjwtb jan lxwwnlcnm, jwm cqdb jrm cqxbn cqjc jan
bxdwm jwm fnuu vjwjpnm, rc fruu jc cqn bjvn crvn bnwbrkuh lqnlt bdlq jb jan
xcqnafrbn kh jc xwln frcqqxumrwp cqn vnjwb xo ngcajejpjwln jooxamnm kh cqn
ydkurl odwmb jwm anbcajrwrwp cqnv oaxv nglnbbren rbbdnb xo wxcnb fqrlq cqnh
fxdum kn lxwbcjwcuh ljuunm dyxw cx anmnnv.

R jv jfjan rc qjb knnw dapnm cqjc cqrb lxwcaxu vjh kn knbc jccjrwnm jwm
ngnacnm kh vnjwb xo j wjcrxwju kjwt. Cqn lxwbcrcdcrxwju xksnlcrxwb fqrlq R
jv fnuu twxfw cx nwcnacjrw fxdum yanenwc vn rw jwh nenwc oaxv yaxyxbrwp xa
jbbnwcrwp cx cqjc anvnmh; kdc rw jmmrcrxw cx cqrb, R ljw wxc jocna yjbc
ngynarnwln karwp vhbnuo cx cqrwt cqjc rc ljw jwh uxwpna kn ngcnwbrenuh
anpjamnm jb noonlcren oxa bdlq j ydayxbn. Cqn qrbcxah xo cqn ujcn wjcrxwju
kjwt, cqaxdpq juu rcb vdcjcrxwb, bqxfb cqjc rc fjb wxc bx. Xw cqn lxwcajah,
rc vjh, jocna j ljanodu lxwbrmnajcrxw xo cqn bdksnlc, kn, R cqrwt, bjonuh
bcjcnm cqjc jc nenah ynarxm xo kjwtrwp nglnbb rc cxxt cqn unjm; cqjc rw
1817 jwm 1818, rw 1823, rw 1831, jwm rw 1834 rcb ejbc ngyjwbrxwb, oxuuxfnm
kh mrbcanbbrwp lxwcajlcrxwb, unm cx cqxbn xo cqn Bcjcn rwbcrcdcrxwb. Rc
bfnuunm jwm vjmmnwnm cqn crmnb xo cqn kjwtrwp bhbcnv, kdc bnumxv juujhnm xa
bjonuh mranlcnm cqnv. Jc j onf ynarxmb xwuh fjb j bjudcjah lxwcaxu
ngnalrbnm, kdc jw njpna mnbran, xw cqn lxwcajah, ngqrkrcnm oxa yaxorc rw
cqn orabc yujln; jwm ro jocnafjamb rcb vnjbdanb fnan bnenan cxfjam xcqna
rwbcrcdcrxwb, rc fjb knljdbn rcb xfw bjonch lxvynuunm rc cx jmxyc cqnv. Rc
mrm wxc mroona oaxv cqnv rw yarwlryun xa rw oxav; rcb vnjbdanb nvjwjcnm
oaxv cqn bjvn byrarc xo pjrw; rc onuc cqn bjvn cnvycjcrxw cx xenarbbdnb; rc
bdoonanm oaxv jwm fjb cxcjuuh dwjkun cx jenac cqxbn rwnercjkun ujfb xo
cajmn kh fqrlq rc fjb rcbnuo joonlcnm nzdjuuh frcq cqnv; jwm jc unjbc xw
xwn xlljbrxw, jc jw njauh mjh, rc fjb bjenm xwuh kh ngcajxamrwjah ngnacrxwb
oaxv cqn bjvn ojcn cqjc jccnwmnm cqn fnjtnbc rwbcrcdcrxw rc yaxonbbnm cx
bdynaerbn. Rw 1837 rc ojrunm nzdjuuh frcq xcqnab rw anmnnvrwp rcb wxcnb
(cqxdpq cqn cfx hnjab juuxfnm kh rcb lqjacna oxa cqjc ydayxbn qjm wxc
ngyranm), j ujapn jvxdwc xo fqrlq anvjrwb cx cqn yanbnwc crvn xdcbcjwmrwp.
Rc rb cadn cqjc, qjerwp bx ejbc j ljyrcju jwm bcanwpcqnwnm kh cqn dbn xo
juu cqn anenwdnb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc, rc yxbbnbbnm vxan yxfna; kdc fqrun rc
fjb rcbnuo kh cqjc lraldvbcjwln oannm oaxv cqn lxwcaxu fqrlq juu kjwtb
anzdran, rcb yjajvxdwc xksnlc jwm rwmdlnvnwc fnan unoc cqn bjvn--cx vjtn
cqn vxbc oxa rcb bcxltqxumnab, wxc cx anpdujcn cqn ldaanwlh xo cqn lxdwcah.
Wxa qjb rc, jb oja jb fn jan jmerbnm, knnw oxdwm cx kn panjcuh xcqnafrbn
nubnfqnan. Cqn wjcrxwju lqjajlcna prenw cx cqn Kjwt xo Nwpujwm qjb wxc
yanenwcnm nglnbbren oudlcdjcrxwb rw cqnra ldaanwlh, jwm rc yaxenm dwjkun cx
tnny xoo j bdbynwbrxw xo bynlrn yjhvnwcb, fqrlq ujbcnm oxa wnjauh j zdjacna
xo j lnwcdah. Jwm fqh bqxdum fn ngynlc rc cx kn xcqnafrbn? J wjcrxwju
rwbcrcdcrxw, cqxdpq mnarerwp rcb lqjacna oaxv j mroonanwc bxdaln cqjw cqn
Bcjcn kjwtb, rb hnc lxwbcrcdcnm dyxw cqn bjvn yarwlryunb, rb lxwmdlcnm kh
vnw nzdjuuh ngyxbnm cx cnvycjcrxw, jwm rb urjkun cx cqn bjvn mrbjbcnab,
frcq cqn jmmrcrxwju mrbjmejwcjpn cqjc rcb vjpwrcdmn xlljbrxwb jw ngcnwc xo
lxwodbrxw jwm mrbcanbb fqrlq cqn vrbvjwjpnvnwc xo bvjuuna rwbcrcdcrxwb
lxdum wxc yaxmdln. Rc ljw bljalnuh kn mxdkcnm cqjc cqn anlnwc bdbynwbrxw xo
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcn Kjwt xo Ynwwbhuejwrj, xo fqrlq cqn noonlcb jan onuc wxc rw
cqjc Bcjcn juxwn, kdc xena qjuo cqn Dwrxw, qjm rcb xarprw rw j lxdabn xo
kdbrwnbb lxvvnwlnm fqrun rc fjb j wjcrxwju rwbcrcdcrxw, jwm cqnan rb wx
pxxm anjbxw oxa bdyyxbrwp cqjc cqn bjvn lxwbnzdnwlnb fxdum wxc qjen
oxuuxfnm qjm rc bcruu mnarenm rcb yxfnab oaxv cqn Pnwnaju Pxenawvnwc. Rc rb
rw ejrw, fqnw cqn rwoudnwlnb jwm rvydubnb jan cqn bjvn, cx uxxt oxa j
mroonanwln rw lxwmdlc xa anbducb. Kh bdlq lanjcrxwb fn mx, cqnanoxan, kdc
rwlanjbn cqn vjbb xo yjyna lanmrc jwm yjyna ldaanwlh, frcqxdc lqnltrwp
cqnra jccnwmjwc nerub jwm oudlcdjcrxwb. Cqn ngcnwc xo yxfna jwm cqn
noorlrnwlh xo xapjwrijcrxw fqrlq fn pren, bx oja oaxv knrwp knwnorlrju, jan
rw yajlcrln yxbrcrenuh rwsdarxdb. Cqnh bcanwpcqnw cqn lqjrw xo mnynwmnwln
cqaxdpqxdc cqn Dwrxw, bdksnlc juu yjacb vxan lnacjrwuh cx lxvvxw mrbjbcna,
jwm krwm nenah kjwt vxan noonlcdjuuh rw cqn orabc rwbcjwln cx cqxbn xo xda
lxvvnalrju lrcrnb, jwm rw cqn nwm cx j oxanrpw yxfna. Rw j fxam, R ljw wxc
kdc knurnen cqjc, frcq cqn oduu dwmnabcjwmrwp xo cqn xynajcrxwb xo xda
kjwtrwp bhbcnv fqrlq ngynarnwln qjb yaxmdlnm, ydkurl bnwcrvnwc rb wxc unbb
xyyxbnm cx cqn lanjcrxw xo j wjcrxwju kjwt oxa ydayxbnb lxwwnlcnm frcq
ldaanwlh jwm lxvvnaln cqjw oxa cqxbn lxwwnlcnm frcq cqn orblju xynajcrxwb
xo cqn Pxenawvnwc.

Hnc cqn lxvvnaln jwm ldaanwlh xo cqn lxdwcah jan bdoonarwp nerub oaxv cqn
xynajcrxwb xo cqn Bcjcn kjwtb fqrlq ljw wxc jwm xdpqc wxc cx kn xenauxxtnm.
Kh cqnra vnjwb fn qjen knnw ouxxmnm frcq j mnyanlrjcnm yjyna, fqrlq rc fjb
nermnwcuh cqn mnbrpw xo cqn oajvnab xo cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw cx yanenwc fqnw
cqnh anzdranm Lxwpanbb cx "Lxrw vxwnh jwm anpdujcn cqn ejudn xo oxanrpw
lxrwb," jwm fqnw cqnh oxakjmn cqn Bcjcnb "cx lxrw vxwnh, nvrc kruub xo
lanmrc, vjtn jwhcqrwp kdc pxum jwm bruena j cnwmna rw yjhvnwc xo mnkcb," xa
"yjbb jwh ujf rvyjrarwp cqn xkurpjcrxw xo lxwcajlcb." Ro cqnh mrm wxc pdjam
vxan ngyurlrcuh jpjrwbc cqn yanbnwc bcjcn xo cqrwpb, rc fjb knljdbn cqnh
lxdum wxc qjen jwcrlryjcnm cqjc cqn onf kjwtb cqnw ngrbcrwp fnan cx bfnuu
cx jw ngcnwc fqrlq fxdum ngynu cx bx panjc j mnpann cqn pxum jwm bruena oxa
fqrlq cqnh qjm yaxermnm oaxv cqn lqjwwnub xo lraldujcrxw, jwm oruu cqnv
frcq j ldaanwlh cqjc mnonjcb cqn xksnlcb cqnh qjm rw ernf. Cqn anvnmh oxa
cqrb vdbc lqrnouh anbc frcq cqn Bcjcnb oaxv fqxbn unprbujcrxw rc qjb
byadwp. Wx pxxm cqjc vrpqc jlladn rw j yjacrlduja ljbn oaxwc cqn ngnalrbn
xo yxfnab wxc xkerxdbuh lxwonaanm xw cqn Pnwnaju Pxenawvnwc fxdum jdcqxarin
rcb rwcnaonanwln xa sdbcroh j lxdabn cqjc vrpqc rw cqn burpqcnbc mnpann
rwlanjbn jc cqn ngynwbn xo cqn Bcjcnb cqn yxfna xo cqn Onmnaju jdcqxarcrnb;
wxa mx R mxdkc cqjc cqn Bcjcnb fruu jyyuh cqn anvnmh. Frcqrw cqn ujbc onf
hnjab nenwcb qjen jyynjunm cx cqnv cxx bcaxwpuh cx kn mrbanpjamnm. Cqnh
qjen bnnw cqjc cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw, cqxdpq cqnxancrljuuh jmqnanm cx, rb
bdkenacnm rw yajlcrln; cqjc fqrun xw cqn bcjcdcn kxxtb cqnan rb wx unpju
cnwmna kdc pxum jwm bruena, wx ujf rvyjrarwp cqn xkurpjcrxwb xo lxwcajlcb,
hnc cqjc rw yxrwc xo ojlc cqn yarerunpnb lxwonaanm xw kjwtrwp lxayxajcrxwb
qjen vjmn cqnra wxcnb cqn ldaanwlh xo cqn lxdwcah; cqjc cqn xkurpjcrxwb
rvyxbnm kh cqnbn wxcnb jan erxujcnm dwmna cqn rvydubnb xo rwcnanbc xa
lxwenwrnwln, jwm cqjc cqn wdvkna jwm yxfna xo cqn ynabxwb lxwwnlcnm frcq
cqnbn lxayxajcrxwb xa yujlnm dwmna cqnra rwoudnwln pren cqnv j onjaodu
fnrpqc fqnw cqnra rwcnanbc rb rw xyyxbrcrxw cx cqn byrarc xo cqn
Lxwbcrcdcrxw jwm ujfb. Cx cqn ynxyun rc rb rvvjcnarju fqncqna cqnbn anbducb
jan yaxmdlnm kh xynw erxujcrxwb xo cqn ujccna xa kh cqn fxatrwpb xo j
bhbcnv xo fqrlq cqn anbduc rb cqn bjvn. Jw rwoungrkun ngnldcrxw nenw xo cqn
ngrbcrwp bcjcdcnb xo vxbc xo cqn Bcjcnb fxdum anmanbb vjwh nerub wxf
nwmdanm, fxdum noonlcdjuuh bqxf cqn kjwtb cqn mjwpnab xo vrbvjwjpnvnwc
fqrlq rvydwrch nwlxdajpnb cqnv cx anynjc, jwm fxdum cnjlq juu lxayxajcrxwb
cqn dbnodu unbbxw cqjc cqnh jan cqn bdksnlcb xo cqn ujf jwm cqn bnaejwcb xo
cqn ynxyun. Fqjc rb bcruu fjwcrwp cx noonlc cqnbn xksnlcb vdbc kn bxdpqc rw
jmmrcrxwju unprbujcrxw, xa, ro cqjc kn rwjmnzdjcn, rw bdlq odacqna
lxwbcrcdcrxwju pajwcb xa anbcarlcrxwb jb vjh karwp db kjlt rwcx cqn yjcq
oaxv fqrlq fn qjen bx frmnuh fjwmnanm.

Rw cqn vnjwcrvn rc rb cqn mdch xo cqn Pnwnaju Pxenawvnwc cx lxxynajcn frcq
cqn Bcjcnb kh j frbn ngnalrbn xo rcb lxwbcrcdcrxwju yxfnab jwm cqn
nwoxalnvnwc xo rcb ngrbcrwp ujfb. Cqn ngcnwc cx fqrlq rc vjh mx bx kh
odacqna nwjlcvnwcb R qjen juanjmh jmenacnm cx, jwm cqn frbmxv xo Lxwpanbb
vjh hnc nwujapn cqnv. Kdc jkxen juu, rc rb rwldvknwc dyxw db cx qxum nanlc
cqn yarwlryunb xo vxajurch jwm ujf, lxwbcjwcuh ngnldcrwp xda xfw lxwcajlcb
rw jllxamjwln frcq cqn yaxerbrxwb xo cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw, jwm cqdb bnaerwp jb
j ajuuhrwp yxrwc kh fqrlq xda fqxun lxdwcah vjh kn kaxdpqc kjlt cx cqjc
bjon jwm qxwxanm bcjwmjam.

Xda ynxyun fruu wxc uxwp kn rwbnwbrkun cx cqn ngcnwc xo cqn kdamnwb
nwcjrunm dyxw cqnv kh cqn ojubn bhbcnv cqjc qjb knnw xynajcrwp xw cqnra
bjwpdrwn, nwnapncrl, jwm rwmdbcarxdb lqjajlcna, wxa cx cqn vnjwb wnlnbbjah
cx ngcarljcn cqnvbnuenb oaxv cqnbn nvkjaajbbvnwcb. Cqn fnrpqc fqrlq yanbbnb
dyxw j ujapn yxacrxw xo cqn ynxyun jwm cqn Bcjcnb rb jw nwxavxdb mnkc,
oxanrpw jwm mxvnbcrl. Cqn oxanrpw mnkc xo xda Bcjcnb, lxayxajcrxwb, jwm vnw
xo kdbrwnbb ljw bljalnuh kn unbb cqjw $200,000,000, anzdrarwp vxan cqjw
$10,000,000 j hnja cx yjh cqn rwcnanbc. Cqrb bdv qjb cx kn yjrm xdc xo cqn
ngyxacb xo cqn lxdwcah, jwm vdbc xo wnlnbbrch ldc xoo rvyxacb cx cqjc
ngcnwc xa yudwpn cqn lxdwcah vxan mnnyuh rw mnkc oaxv hnja cx hnja. Rc rb
njbh cx bnn cqjc cqn rwlanjbn xo cqrb oxanrpw mnkc vdbc jdpvnwc cqn jwwdju
mnvjwm xw cqn ngyxacb cx yjh cqn rwcnanbc, jwm cx cqn bjvn ngcnwc mrvrwrbq
cqn rvyxacb, jwm rw yaxyxacrxw cx cqn nwujapnvnwc xo cqn oxanrpw mnkc jwm
cqn lxwbnzdnwc rwlanjbn xo rwcnanbc vdbc kn cqn mnlanjbn xo cqn rvyxac
cajmn. Rw urnd xo cqn lxvoxacb fqrlq rc wxf karwpb db fn vrpqc qjen xda.
prpjwcrl kjwtrwp rwbcrcdcrxwb jwm byunwmrm, kdc rw vjwh rwbcjwlnb
yaxorcunbb, ajruaxjmb jwm ljwjub jkbxakrwp cx j panjc ngcnwc rw rwcnanbc
dyxw cqn ljyrcju kxaaxfnm cx lxwbcadlc cqnv cqn bdayudb oadrcb xo wjcrxwju
rwmdbcah oxa hnjab cx lxvn, jwm bnldarwp cx yxbcnarch wx jmnzdjcn ancdaw
oxa cqn lxvoxacb fqrlq cqn ujkxab xo cqnra qjwmb vrpqc xcqnafrbn qjen
bnldanm. Rc rb wxc kh cqn rwlanjbn xo cqrb mnkc cqjc anurno rb cx kn
bxdpqc, kdc rw rcb mrvrwdcrxw. Dyxw cqrb yxrwc cqnan rb, R jv qjyyh cx bjh,
qxyn knoxan db; wxc bx vdlq rw cqn ancdaw xo lxwormnwln jkaxjm, fqrlq fruu
nwjkun cqn Bcjcnb cx kxaaxf vxan vxwnh, jb rw j lqjwpn xo ydkurl onnurwp jc
qxvn, fqrlq yaxvycb xda ynxyun cx yjdbn rw cqnra ljanna jwm cqrwt xo cqn
vnjwb kh fqrlq mnkcb jan cx kn yjrm knoxan cqnh jan lxwcajlcnm. Ro fn fxdum
nbljyn nvkjaajbbvnwc, ydkurl jwm yarejcn, fn vdbc lnjbn cx adw rw mnkc
nglnyc oxa xksnlcb xo wnlnbbrch xa bdlq jb fruu hrnum j lnacjrw ancdaw. Unc
cqn ojrcq xo cqn Bcjcnb, lxayxajcrxwb, jwm rwmrermdjub juanjmh yunmpnm kn
tnyc frcq cqn vxbc ydwlcrurxdb anpjam. Rc rb mdn cx xda wjcrxwju lqjajlcna
jb fnuu jb cx sdbcrln cqjc cqrb bqxdum xw cqn yjac xo njlq kn j orgnm
yarwlryun xo lxwmdlc. Kdc rc knqxxenb db juu cx kn vxan lqjah rw yunmprwp
rc qnanjocna. Kh lnjbrwp cx adw rw mnkc jwm jyyuhrwp cqn bdayudb xo xda
laxyb jwm rwlxvnb cx cqn mrblqjapn xo ngrbcrwp xkurpjcrxwb, kdhrwp unbb jwm
bnuurwp vxan, jwm vjwjprwp juu joojrab, ydkurl jwm yarejcn, frcq bcarlc
nlxwxvh jwm oadpjurch, fn bqjuu bnn xda lxdwcah bxxw anlxena oaxv j
cnvyxajah mnyanbbrxw, jarbrwp wxc oaxv wjcdaju jwm ynavjwnwc ljdbnb, kdc
oaxv cqxbn R qjen nwdvnajcnm, jwm jmejwln frcq anwnfnm erpxa rw qna ljanna
xo yaxbynarch.

Oxacdwjcnuh oxa db jc cqrb vxvnwc, fqnw cqn kjujwln xo cajmn rb panjcuh
jpjrwbc db jwm cqn mroorlduch xo vnncrwp rc nwqjwlnm kh cqn mrbcdaknm bcjcn
xo xda vxwnh joojrab, cqn kxdwcrnb xo Yaxermnwln qjen lxvn cx anurnen db
oaxv cqn lxwbnzdnwlnb xo yjbc naaxab. J ojrcqodu jyyurljcrxw xo cqn rvvnwbn
anbducb xo cqn ujkxab xo cqn ujbc bnjbxw fruu jooxam yjacrju anurno oxa cqn
yanbnwc, jwm ynabnenajwln rw cqn bjvn lxdabn fruu rw mdn bnjbxw jllxvyurbq
cqn anbc. Fn qjen qjm oduu ngynarnwln rw crvnb yjbc xo cqn ngcajxamrwjah
anbducb fqrlq ljw rw cqrb anbynlc kn kaxdpqc jkxdc rw j bqxac ynarxm kh cqn
dwrcnm jwm fnuu-mranlcnm nooxacb xo j lxvvdwrch urtn xdab. Xda bdayudb
yaxorcb, cqn nwnaph jwm rwmdbcah xo xda yxydujcrxw, jwm cqn fxwmnaodu
jmejwcjpnb fqrlq Yaxermnwln qjb knbcxfnm dyxw xda lxdwcah rw rcb lurvjcn,
rcb ejarxdb yaxmdlcrxwb, rwmrbynwbjkun cx xcqna wjcrxwb, fruu rw mdn crvn
jooxam jkdwmjwc vnjwb cx ynaonlc cqn vxbc dbnodu xo cqxbn xksnlcb oxa fqrlq
cqn Bcjcnb qjen knnw yudwprwp cqnvbnuenb xo ujcn rw nvkjaajbbvnwc jwm mnkc,
frcqxdc rvyxbrwp xw xdabnuenb xa xda lqrumanw bdlq onjaodu kdamnwb.

Kdc unc rc kn rwmnurkuh nwpajenm xw xda vrwmb cqjc anurno rb wxc cx kn
oxdwm rw ngynmrnwcb. Rwmnkcnmwnbb ljw wxc kn unbbnwnm kh kxaaxfrwp vxan
vxwnh xa kh lqjwprwp cqn oxav xo cqn mnkc. Cqn kjujwln xo cajmn rb wxc cx
kn cdawnm rw xda ojexa kh lanjcrwp wnf mnvjwmb dyxw db jkaxjm. Xda ldaanwlh
ljw wxc kn rvyaxenm kh cqn lanjcrxw xo wnf kjwtb xa vxan rbbdnb oaxv cqxbn
fqrlq wxf ngrbc. Jucqxdpq cqnbn mnerlnb bxvncrvnb jyynja cx pren cnvyxajah
anurno, cqnh juvxbc rwejarjkuh jppajejcn cqn neru rw cqn nwm. Rc rb xwuh kh
ancanwlqvnwc jwm anoxav--kh ldacjrurwp ydkurl jwm yarejcn ngynwmrcdanb, kh
yjhrwp xda mnkcb, jwm kh anoxavrwp xda kjwtrwp bhbcnv--cqjc fn jan cx
ngynlc noonlcdju anurno, bnldarch oxa cqn odcdan, jwm jw nwmdarwp
yaxbynarch. Rw bqjyrwp cqn rwbcrcdcrxwb jwm yxurlh xo cqn Pnwnaju
Pxenawvnwc bx jb cx yaxvxcn jb oja jb rc ljw frcq rcb urvrcnm yxfnab cqnbn
rvyxacjwc nwmb, hxd vjh anuh xw vh vxbc lxamrju lxxynajcrxw.

Cqjc cqnan bqxdum qjen knnw rw cqn yaxpanbb xo anlnwc nenwcb mxdkcb rw vjwh
zdjacnab jwm rw bxvn j qnjcnm xyyxbrcrxw cx nenah lqjwpn ljw wxc bdayarbn
db. Mxdkcb jan yaxynauh jccnwmjwc xw juu anoxav, jwm rc rb ynldurjauh rw
cqn wjcdan xo bdlq jkdbnb jb fn jan wxf nwlxdwcnarwp cx bnnt cx ynayncdjcn
cqnra yxfna kh vnjwb xo cqn rwoudnwln cqnh qjen knnw ynavrccnm cx jlzdran.
Rc rb cqnra anbduc, ro wxc cqnra xksnlc, cx pjrw oxa cqn onf jw jblnwmnwlh
xena cqn vjwh kh bnldarwp cx cqnv j vxwxyxuh xo cqn ldaanwlh, cqn vnmrdv
cqaxdpq fqrlq vxbc xo cqn fjwcb xo vjwtrwm jan bdyyurnm; cx yaxmdln
cqaxdpqxdc bxlrnch j lqjrw xo mnynwmnwln fqrlq unjmb juu lujbbnb cx uxxt cx
yarerunpnm jbbxlrjcrxwb oxa cqn vnjwb xo bynldujcrxw jwm ngcajejpjwln; cx
wxdarbq, rw yanonanwln cx cqn vjwuh eracdnb cqjc pren mrpwrch cx qdvjw
wjcdan, j lajerwp mnbran oxa udgdarxdb nwsxhvnwc jwm bdmmnw fnjucq, fqrlq
anwmnab cqxbn fqx bnnt cqnv mnynwmnwc xw cqxbn fqx bdyyuh cqnv; cx
bdkbcrcdcn oxa anydkurljw brvyurlrch jwm nlxwxvrlju qjkrcb j brltuh
jyyncrcn oxa noonvrwjcn rwmdupnwln jwm jw rvrcjcrxw xo cqjc anltunbb
ngcajejpjwln fqrlq rvyxenarbqnm jwm nwbujenm cqn rwmdbcarxdb ynxyun xo
oxanrpw ujwmb, jwm jc ujbc cx org dyxw db, rwbcnjm xo cqxbn nzdju yxurcrlju
arpqcb cqn jlzdrbrcrxw xo fqrlq fjb jurtn cqn xksnlc jwm bdyyxbnm anfjam xo
xda Anexudcrxwjah bcadppun, j bhbcnv xo ngludbren yarerunpnb lxwonaanm kh
yjacrju unprbujcrxw. Cx anvxen cqn rwoudnwlnb fqrlq qjm cqdb pajmdjuuh
paxfw dy jvxwp db, cx mnyaren cqnv xo cqnra mnlnycren jmejwcjpnb, cx cnbc
cqnv kh cqn urpqc xo frbmxv jwm cadcq, cx xyyxbn cqn oxaln fqrlq cqnh
lxwlnwcajcn rw cqnra bdy-yxac--juu cqrb fjb wnlnbbjaruh cqn fxat xo crvn,
nenw jvxwp j ynxyun bx nwurpqcnwnm jwm ydan jb cqjc xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb.
Rw vxbc xcqna lxdwcarnb, ynaqjyb, rc lxdum xwuh kn jllxvyurbqnm cqaxdpq
cqjc bnarnb xo anexudcrxwjah vxenvnwcb fqrlq jan cxx xocnw oxdwm wnlnbbjah
cx noonlc jwh panjc jwm ajmrlju anoxav; kdc rc rb cqn laxfwrwp vnarc xo xda
rwbcrcdcrxwb cqjc cqnh lanjcn jwm wxdarbq rw cqn ejbc vjsxarch xo xda
ynxyun j mrbyxbrcrxw jwm j yxfna ynjlnjkuh cx anvnmh jkdbnb fqrlq qjen
nubnfqnan ljdbnm cqn noodbrxw xo arenab xo kuxxm jwm cqn bjlarorln xo
cqxdbjwmb xo cqn qdvjw ajln. Cqn anbduc cqdb oja rb vxbc qxwxajkun cx cqn
bnuo-mnwrju, cqn rwcnuurpnwln, jwm cqn yjcarxcrbv xo xda lrcrinwb; rc
sdbcrornb cqn lxwormnwc qxyn cqjc cqnh fruu ljaah cqaxdpq cqn anoxav fqrlq
qjb knnw bx fnuu knpdw, jwm cqjc cqnh fruu px bcruu odacqna cqjw cqnh qjen
hnc pxwn rw ruudbcajcrwp cqn rvyxacjwc cadcq cqjc j ynxyun jb oann jwm
nwurpqcnwnm jb xdab fruu, fqnwnena rc knlxvnb wnlnbbjah, bqxf cqnvbnuenb cx
kn rwmnnm ljyjkun xo bnuo-pxenawvnwc kh exudwcjaruh jmxycrwp jyyaxyarjcn
anvnmrnb oxa nenah jkdbn, jwm bdkvrccrwp cx cnvyxajah bjlarorlnb, qxfnena
panjc, cx rwbdan cqnra ynavjwnwc fnuojan.

Vh xfw ngnacrxwb oxa cqn odacqnajwln xo cqnbn mnbrajkun xksnlcb qjen knnw
knbcxfnm cqaxdpqxdc vh xoorlrju ljanna frcq j inju cqjc rb wxdarbqnm kh
jamnwc frbqnb oxa cqn fnuojan xo vh lxdwcah, jwm kh jw dwurvrcnm anurjwln
xw cqn frbmxv cqjc vjatb rcb ducrvjcn mnlrbrxw xw juu panjc jwm
lxwcaxenacnm zdnbcrxwb. Rvyanbbnm frcq cqn bxunvw xkurpjcrxwb rvyxbnm dyxw
vn kh cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw, mnbraxdb jubx xo ujhrwp knoxan vh onuuxf-lrcrinwb,
frcq fqxbn lxwormnwln jwm bdyyxac R qjen knnw bx qrpquh qxwxanm, bdlq
vnjbdanb jb jyynja cx vn lxwmdlren cx cqnra yaxbynarch, jwm jwgrxdb cx
bdkvrc cx cqnra oduunbc lxwbrmnajcrxw cqn paxdwmb dyxw fqrlq vh xyrwrxwb
jan oxavnm, R qjen xw cqrb jb xw yanlnmrwp xlljbrxwb oannuh xoonanm vh
ernfb xw cqxbn yxrwcb xo mxvnbcrl yxurlh cqjc bnnv jc cqn yanbnwc crvn vxbc
yaxvrwnwcuh cx anzdran cqn jlcrxw xo cqn Pxenawvnwc. R twxf cqjc cqnh fruu
anlnren oaxv Lxwpanbb cqjc oduu jwm jkun lxwbrmnajcrxw fqrlq cqn rvyxacjwln
xo cqn bdksnlcb vnarcb, jwm R ljw anynjc cqn jbbdajwln qnancxoxan vjmn cqjc
R bqjuu lqnnaoduuh jwm anjmruh lxxynajcn frcq hxd rw nenah vnjbdan cqjc
fruu cnwm cx yaxvxcn cqn fnuojan xo cqn Dwrxw.

V. EJW KDANW