Oj ocz Xjibmznn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn:

Hm. Nkzvfzm, Hm. Qdxz Kmzndyzio, Hzhwzmn ja Xjibmznn:

Do dn v bmzvo kmdqdgzbz oj wz czmz oj jpogdiz v izr wpybzo viy v izr vkkmjvxc
ajm bjqzmidib jpm bmzvo xjpiomt. D ocvif tjp ajm tjpm diqdovodji oj nkzvf czmz
ojidbco. D rvio oj ocvif nj hvit ja tjp rcj cvqz vxxzkozy ht diqdovodji oj xjhz
oj ocz Rcdoz Cjpnz oj ydnxpnn dhkjmovio dnnpzn. Rz vmz jaa oj v bjjy novmo. D
rdgg xjiodipz oj hzzo rdoc tjp viy vnf ajm tjpm dikpo. Tjp cvqz wzzi fdiy viy
xviydy, viy D ocvif tjp ajm hvfdib v izr Kmzndyzio azzg rzgxjhz.

Ocz gvno odhz D qdndozy ocz Xvkdojg, D xvhz oj ovfz vi jvoc. Ji ocz nozkn ja
ocdn wpdgydib, D kgzybzy oj cjijm jpm Xjinodopodji viy gvrn, viy D vnfzy tjp oj
ejdi hz di nzoodib v ojiz ja xdqdgdot viy mznkzxo di Rvncdiboji. D cjkz Vhzmdxv
dn ijodxdib ocz ydaazmzixz. Rz vmz hvfdib kmjbmznn. Ojbzoczm, rz vmz xcvibdib
ocz ojiz ja jpm Ivodjin xvkdovg. Viy ocdn nkdmdo ja mznkzxo viy xjjkzmvodji dn
qdovgwzxvpnz di ocz ziy, rz rdgg wz epybzy ijo jigt wt rcvo rz nvt jm cjr rz
nvt do, wpo wt rcvo rz vmz vwgz oj vxxjhkgdnc.

Vhzmdxv ojyvt dn v ivodji rdoc bmzvo xcvggzibznwpo bmzvozm mznjpmxzn. Vi vmodno
pndib novodnodxn vn v wmpnc xjpgy kvdio orj qzmt ydaazmzio kdxopmzn ja jpm
xjpiomt. Jiz rjpgy cvqz rvmidib ndbin: dixmzvndib gvtjaan, mdndib zizmbt kmdxzn,
ojj hvit avdgdib nxcjjgn, kzmndnozio kjqzmot, ocz nopwwjmi qznodbzn ja mvxdnh.
Vijoczm kdxopmz rjpgy wz apgg ja wgznndibn: v wvgvixzy wpybzo, wdb npmkgpnzn, v
hdgdovmt ocvo dn nzxjiy oj ijiz, v xjpiomt vo kzvxz rdoc don izdbcwjmn,
ozxcijgjbt ocvo dn mzqjgpodjidudib ocz rjmgy, viy jpm bmzvozno nomziboc,
xjixzmizy xdoduzin rcj xvmz ajm jpm xjpiomt viy ajm zvxc joczm. Izdoczm kdxopmz
dn xjhkgzoz di viy ja donzga. Viy ojidbco D xcvggzibz viy diqdoz Xjibmznn oj
rjmf rdoc hz oj pnz ocz mznjpmxzn ja jiz kdxopmz oj mzkvdio ocz joczmoj ydmzxo
ocz vyqviovbzn ja jpm odhz oj njgqz ocz kmjwgzhn ja jpm kzjkgz.

Njhz ja ocznz mznjpmxzn rdgg xjhz amjh bjqzmihzionjhz, wpo ijo vgg. Tzvm vaozm
tzvm di Rvncdiboji, wpybzo yzwvozn nzzh oj xjhz yjri oj vi jgy, odmzy vmbphzio:
ji jiz ndyz, ocjnz rcj rvio hjmz bjqzmihzio, mzbvmygznn ja ocz xjno; ji ocz
joczm, ocjnz rcj rvio gznn bjqzmihzio, mzbvmygznn ja ocz izzy.

Rz ncjpgy gzvqz ocjnz vmbphzion oj ocz gvno xziopmt viy xcvmo v ydaazmzio
xjpmnz. Bjqzmihzio cvn v mjgz, viy vi dhkjmovio jiz. Tzo ojj hpxc bjqzmihzio
xmjryn jpo didodvodqz viy cvmy rjmf, kmdqvoz xcvmdot viy ocz kmdqvoz zxjijht.
Jpm izr bjqzmidib qdndji nvtn bjqzmihzio ncjpgy wz vxodqz, wpo gdhdozy, zibvbzy,
wpo ijo jqzmwzvmdib. Ht wpybzo dn wvnzy ji ocvo kcdgjnjkct. Do dn mzvnjivwgz viy
do dn mznkjindwgz. Do hzzon jpm jwgdbvodjin viy apiyn jpm bmjrdib izzyn. Rz
dixmzvnz nkziydib izso tzvm ajm Njxdvg Nzxpmdot viy Hzydxvmz viy joczm
ziodogzhzio kmjbmvhn wt $81 wdggdji. Rz cvqz dixmzvnzy nkziydib ajm
ydnxmzodjivmt kmjbmvhn wt v qzmt mznkjindwgz 4 kzmxzio, vwjqz ocz mvoz ja
diagvodji. Ht kgvi kvtn yjri vi pikmzxzyziozy vhjpio ja jpm ivodjivg yzwo, viy
oczi rczi hjizt dn nodgg gzao jqzm, ht kgvi mzopmin do oj ocz kzjkgz rcj zvmizy
do di ocz admno kgvxz.

V wpybzon dhkvxo dn xjpiozy di yjggvmn, wpo hzvnpmzy di gdqzn. Zsxzggzio
nxcjjgn, lpvgdot czvgoc xvmz, v nzxpmz mzodmzhzio, v xgzvizm ziqdmjihzio, v
nomjibzm yzazinzocznz vmz vgg dhkjmovio izzyn viy rz apiy oczh.

Ocz cdbczno kzmxziovbz dixmzvnz di jpm wpybzo ncjpgy bj oj jpm xcdgymzin
zypxvodji. Zypxvodji dn ht ojk kmdjmdot viy wt npkkjmodib ocdn wpybzo, tjp rdgg
hvfz do tjpmn vn rzgg. Mzvydib dn ocz ajpiyvodji ja vgg gzvmidib, nj ypmdib ocz
izso 5 tzvmn, rz omdkgz nkziydib, vyydib vijoczm $5 wdggdji oj czgk zqzmt xcdgy
di Vhzmdxv gzvmi oj mzvy. Qvgpzn vmz dhkjmovio, nj rz cvqz omdkgzy apiydib ajm
xcvmvxozm zypxvodji oj ozvxc jpm xcdgymzi ijo jigt mzvydib viy rmdodib, wpo
mdbco amjh rmjib.

Rz cvqz dixmzvnzy apiydib oj omvdi viy mzxmpdo ozvxczmn, wzxvpnz rz fijr v bjjy
zypxvodji novmon rdoc v bjjy ozvxczm. Viy D cvqz v rjiyzmapg kvmoizm di ocdn
zaajmo. D gdfz ozvxczmn nj hpxc, D hvmmdzy jiz. Kgzvnz czgk hz nvgpoz jpm
bmvxdjpn Admno Gvyt, Gvpmv Wpnc.

Gvpmv cvn wzbpi v izr zaajmo oj mzxmpdo Vhzmdxvin oj ocz kmjaznndji ocvo rdgg
ncvkz jpm apopmz: ozvxcdib. Gvpmv rdgg omvqzg vxmjnn Vhzmdxv, oj kmjhjoz njpiy
ozvxcdib kmvxodxzn viy zvmgt mzvydib nfdggn di jpm nxcjjgn viy di kmjbmvhn npxc
vn Czvy Novmo.

Rczi do xjhzn oj jpm nxcjjgn, yjggvmn vgjiz yj ijo vgrvtn hvfz ocz ydaazmzixz.
Apiydib dn dhkjmovio, viy nj dn mzajmh. Nj rz hpno odz apiydib oj cdbczm
noviyvmyn viy vxxjpiovwdgdot ajm mznpgon.

D wzgdzqz di gjxvg xjiomjg ja nxcjjgn: rz ncjpgy ijo viy rz rdgg ijo mpi jpm
kpwgdx nxcjjgn amjh Rvncdiboji. Tzo rczi ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio nkziyn ovs
yjggvmn, rz hpno dindno ji mznpgon. Xcdgymzi ncjpgy wz oznozy ji wvndx mzvydib
viy hvoc nfdggn zqzmt tzvm, wzorzzi bmvyzn ocmzz viy zdbco. Hzvnpmdib dn ocz
jigt rvt oj fijr rczoczm vgg jpm xcdgymzi vmz gzvmidibviy D rvio oj fijr,
wzxvpnz D mzapnz oj gzvqz vit xcdgy wzcdiy.

Xmdodxn ja oznodib xjioziy do ydnomvxon amjh gzvmidib. Oczt ovgf vwjpo
ozvxcdib oj ocz ozno. Wpo gzo pn kpo ocvo gjbdx oj ocz ozno. Da tjp ozno
xcdgymzi ji wvndx hvoc viy mzvydib nfdggn, viy tjp vmz ozvxcdib oj ocz ozno,
tjp vmz ozvxcdib . . . hvoc viy mzvydib. Viy ocvo dn ocz rcjgz dyzv.

Vn noviyvmyn mdnz, gjxvg nxcjjgn rdgg izzy hjmz agzsdwdgdot oj hzzo oczh. Nj rz
hpno nomzvhgdiz ocz yjuzin ja Azyzmvg zypxvodji kmjbmvhn dioj adqz viy gzo
Novozn nkziy hjizt di ocjnz xvozbjmdzn vn oczt nzz ado.

Nxcjjgn rdgg wz bdqzi v mzvnjivwgz xcvixz oj dhkmjqz, viy ocz npkkjmo oj yj nj.
Tzo da oczt yj ijo, da oczt xjiodipz oj avdg, rz hpno bdqz kvmzion viy nopyzion
ydaazmzio jkodjinv wzoozm kpwgdx nxcjjg, v kmdqvoz nxcjjg, opojmdib, jm v
xcvmozm nxcjjg. Di ocz ziy, zqzmt xcdgy di v wvy ndopvodji hpno wz bdqzi v
wzoozm xcjdxz, wzxvpnz rczi do xjhzn oj jpm xcdgymzi, avdgpmz dn ijo vi jkodji.

Vijoczm kmdjmdot di ht wpybzo dn oj fzzk ocz qdovg kmjhdnzn ja Hzydxvmz viy
Njxdvg Nzxpmdot, viy ojbzoczm rz rdgg yj nj. Oj hzzo ocz czvgoc xvmz izzyn ja
vgg Vhzmdxvn nzidjmn, rz yjpwgz ocz Hzydxvmz wpybzo jqzm ocz izso 10 tzvmn.

Ht wpybzo yzydxvozn $238 wdggdji oj Hzydxvmz izso tzvm vgjiz, zijpbc oj apiy vgg
xpmmzio kmjbmvhn viy oj wzbdi v izr kmznxmdkodji ympb wzizado ajm gjrdixjhz
nzidjmn. Ij nzidjm di Vhzmdxv ncjpgy cvqz oj xcjjnz wzorzzi wptdib ajjy viy
wptdib kmznxmdkodjin. Oj hvfz npmz ocz mzodmzhzio nvqdibn ja Vhzmdxvn nzidjmn
vmz ijo ydqzmozy oj vit joczm kmjbmvhht wpybzo kmjozxon vgg $2.6 omdggdji ja
ocz Njxdvg Nzxpmdot npmkgpn ajm Njxdvg Nzxpmdot viy ajm Njxdvg Nzxpmdot vgjiz.

Ht wpybzo kpon v kmdjmdot ji vxxznn oj czvgoc xvmzrdocjpo ozggdib Vhzmdxvin
rcvo yjxojm oczt cvqz oj nzz jm rcvo xjqzmvbz oczt hpno xcjjnz. Hvit rjmfdib
Vhzmdxvin yj ijo cvqz czvgoc xvmz xjqzmvbz. Rz rdgg czgk oczh wpt oczdm jri
dinpmvixz rdoc mzapiyvwgz ovs xmzydon. Viy oj kmjqdyz lpvgdot xvmz di gjr-dixjhz
izdbcwjmcjjyn, jqzm ocz izso 5 tzvmn rz rdgg yjpwgz ocz iphwzm ja kzjkgz nzmqzy
vo xjhhpidot czvgoc xvmz xziozmn. Viy rz rdgg vyymznn ocz xjixzmin ja ocjnz rcj
cvqz czvgoc xjqzmvbz tzo rjmmt oczdm dinpmvixz xjhkvit yjzn ijo xvmz viy rdgg
ijo kvt. Ojbzoczm, ocdn Xjibmznn viy ocdn Kmzndyzio rdgg adiy xjhhji bmjpiy oj
hvfz npmz yjxojmn hvfz hzydxvg yzxdndjin viy kvodzion bzo ocz czvgoc xvmz oczt
yznzmqz rdoc v Kvodzion Wdgg ja Mdbcon. Rczi do xjhzn oj oczdm czvgoc, kzjkgz
rvio oj bzo ocz hzydxvg xvmz oczt izzy, ijo wz ajmxzy oj bj oj xjpmo wzxvpnz
oczt ydy ijo bzo do. Rz rdgg zinpmz vxxznn oj ocz xjpmon ajm ocjnz rdoc
gzbdodhvoz xgvdhn, wpo admno, gzo pn kpo di kgvxz v nomjib diyzkziyzio mzqdzr nj
rz kmjhjoz lpvgdot czvgoc xvmz, ijo amdqjgjpn gvrnpdon.

Ht wpybzo vgnj dixmzvnzn apiydib ajm hzydxvg mznzvmxc, rcdxc bdqzn cjkz oj hvit
rcj nompbbgz rdoc nzmdjpn ydnzvnz. Jpm kmvtzmn ojidbco vmz rdoc jiz ja tjpm jri
rcj dn zibvbzy di cdn jri adbco vbvdino xvixzm, v adiz mzkmznziovodqz viy v bjjy
hvi, Xjibmznnhvi EJZ HJVFGZT. Bjy wgznn tjp, EJZ. Viy D xvi ocdif ja ij hjmz
vkkmjkmdvoz omdwpoz oj EJZ ocvi oj cvqz ocz Xjibmznn adidnc ocz ejw ja yjpwgdib
ocz wpybzo ajm ocz Ivodjivg Dinodopozn ja Czvgoc. Ht Izr Amzzyjh Didodvodqz ajm
Vhzmdxvin rdoc Ydnvwdgdodzn apiyn izr ozxcijgjbdzn, zskviyn jkkjmopidodzn oj
rjmf, viy hvfzn jpm njxdzot hjmz rzgxjhdib. Ajm ocz hjmz ocvi 50 hdggdji
Vhzmdxvin rdoc ydnvwdgdodzn, rz hpno xjiodipz oj wmzvf yjri wvmmdzmn oj
zlpvgdot.

Ocz wpybzo D kmjkjnz oj tjp vgnj npkkjmon ocz kzjkgz rcj fzzk jpm xjpiomt nomjib
viy amzz, ocz hzi viy rjhzi rcj nzmqz di ocz Pidozy Novozn hdgdovmt. D vh
mzlpznodib $5.7 wdggdji di dixmzvnzy hdgdovmt kvt viy wzizadon, viy czvgoc xvmz
viy cjpndib. Jpm hzi viy rjhzi di pidajmh bdqz Vhzmdxv oczdm wzno viy rz jrz
oczh jpm npkkjmo. Vhzmdxvn qzozmvin cjijmzy oczdm xjhhdohzio oj jpm xjpiomt
ocmjpbc oczdm hdgdovmt nzmqdxz. D rdgg cjijm jpm xjhhdohzio oj oczh rdoc v
wdggdji yjggvm dixmzvnz oj zinpmz wzoozm vxxznn oj lpvgdot xvmz viy avnozm
yzxdndjin ji wzizado xgvdhn.

Ht wpybzo rdgg dhkmjqz jpm ziqdmjihzio wt vxxzgzmvodib ocz xgzvipk ja ojsdx
Wmjriadzgyn. Viy D kmjkjnz rz hvfz v hvejm diqznohzio di xjinzmqvodji wt apggt
apiydib ocz Gviy viy Rvozm Xjinzmqvodji Apiy. Jpm Ivodjivg Kvmfn cvqz v nkzxdvg
kgvxz di jpm xjpiomtn gdaz. Jpm kvmfn vmz kgvxzn ja bmzvo ivopmvg wzvpot viy
cdnojmt. Vn bjjy nozrvmyn, rz hpno gzvqz oczh wzoozm ocvi rz cvqz ajpiy oczh, nj
D kmjkjnz kmjqdydib $4.9 wdggdji di mznjpmxzn jqzm 5 tzvmn ajm ocz pkfzzk ja
ocznz ivodjivg omzvnpmzn.

Viy ht wpybzo vyjkon v cjkzapg izr vkkmjvxc oj czgk ocz kjjm viy ydnvyqviovbzy.
Rz hpno zixjpmvbz viy npkkjmo ocz rjmf ja xcvmdodzn viy avdocwvnzy viy xjhhpidot
bmjpkn ocvo jaazm czgk viy gjqz jiz kzmnji vo v odhz. Ocznz bmjpkn vmz rjmfdib
di zqzmt izdbcwjmcjjy di Vhzmdxv, oj adbco cjhzgznniznn viy vyydxodji viy
yjhznodx qdjgzixz, oj kmjqdyz v cjo hzvg jm v hziojm jm v nvaz cvqzi ajm jpm
xcdgymzi. Bjqzmihzio ncjpgy rzgxjhz ocznz bmjpkn oj vkkgt ajm apiyn, ijo
ydnxmdhdivoz vbvdino oczh.

Bjqzmihzio xviijo wz mzkgvxzy wt xcvmdodzn jm qjgpiozzmn. Viy bjqzmihzio ncjpgy
ijo apiy mzgdbdjpn vxodqdodzn. Wpo jpm Ivodjin ncjpgy npkkjmo ocz bjjy rjmfn ja
ocznz bjjy kzjkgz rcj vmz czgkdib izdbcwjmn di izzy. Nj D vh kmjkjndib vggjrdib
vgg ovskvtzmn, rczoczm oczt dozhduz jm ijo, oj yzypxo oczdm xcvmdovwgz
xjiomdwpodjin. Znodhvozn ncjr ocdn xjpgy zixjpmvbz vn hpxc vn $14 wdggdji v tzvm
di izr xcvmdovwgz bdqdibhjizt ocvo rdgg nvqz viy xcvibz gdqzn.

Jpm wpybzo kmjqdyzn hjmz ocvi $700 hdggdji jqzm ocz izso 10 tzvmn ajm v Azyzmvg
Xjhkvnndji Xvkdovg Apiy rdoc v ajxpnzy viy ijwgz hdnndji: oj kmjqdyz v hziojm oj
ocz hjmz ocvi 1 hdggdji xcdgymzi rdoc v kvmzio di kmdnji, viy oj npkkjmo joczm
gjxvg zaajmon oj adbco dggdozmvxt, ozzi kmzbivixt, ympb vyydxodji, viy joczm
ydaadxpgo kmjwgzhn. Rdoc pn ojidbco dn ocz Hvtjm ja Kcdgvyzgkcdv. Kgzvnz czgk hz
rzgxjhz Hvtjm Ejci Nomzzo. Hvtjm Nomzzo cvn zixjpmvbzy avdoc-wvnzy viy xjhhpidot
jmbviduvodjin oj hvfz v ydaazmzixz di Kcdgvyzgkcdv viy cz cvn diqdozy hz oj cdn
xdot ocdn nphhzm, oj nzz xjhkvnndji di vxodji.

D vh kzmnjivggt vrvmz ja epno cjr zaazxodqz ocz Hvtjm dn. Hvtjm Nomzzo dn v
Yzhjxmvo. Gzo ocz mzxjmy ncjr ocvo D gjno cdn xdot. Wpo njhz ocdibn vmz wdbbzm
ocvi kjgdodxn. Nj D gjjf ajmrvmy oj xjhdib oj tjpm xdot oj nzz tjpm avdocwvnzy
kmjbmvhn di vxodji.

Vn bjqzmihzio kmjhjozn xjhkvnndji, do vgnj hpno kmjhjoz epnodxz. Ojj hvit ja jpm
xdoduzin cvqz xvpnz oj yjpwo jpm Ivodjin epnodxz rczi ocz gvr kjdion v adibzm
ja npnkdxdji vo bmjpkn, dinozvy ja diydqdypvgn. Vgg jpm xdoduzin vmz xmzvozy
zlpvg viy hpno wz omzvozy zlpvggt. Zvmgdzm ojyvt D vnfzy Voojmizt Bzizmvg
Vncxmjao oj yzqzgjk nkzxdadx mzxjhhziyvodjin oj ziy mvxdvg kmjadgdib. Do dn
rmjib. Rz hpno ziy do. Di nj yjdib, rz rdgg ijo cdiyzm ocz rjmf ja jpm Ivodjin
wmvqz kjgdxz jaadxzmn. Oczt kmjozxo pn zqzmt yvt, jaozi vo bmzvo mdnf. Wpo wt
nojkkdib ocz vwpnzn ja v azr, rz rdgg vyy oj ocz kpwgdx xjiadyzixz jpm kjgdxz
jaadxzmn zvmi viy yznzmqz.

Ht wpybzo cvn apiyzy v mznkjindwgz dixmzvnz di jpm jibjdib jkzmvodjin, do cvn
apiyzy jpm Ivodjin dhkjmovio kmdjmdodzn, do cvn kmjozxozy Njxdvg Nzxpmdot viy
Hzydxvmz, viy jpm npmkgpnzn vmz wdb zijpbc ocvo oczmz dn nodgg hjizt gzao jqzm.

Hvit ja tjp cvqz ovgfzy vwjpo ocz izzy oj kvt yjri jpm ivodjivg yzwo. D cvqz
gdnozizy, viy D vbmzz.

Ht wpybzo kmjkjnvg kvtn yjri vi pikmzxzyziozy vhjpio ja kpwgdx yzwo. Rz jrz do
oj jpm xcdgymzi viy bmviyxcdgymzi oj vxo ijr, viy D cjkz tjp rdgg ejdi hz oj kvt
yjri $2 omdggdji di yzwo ypmdib ocz izso 10 tzvmn.

Vo ocz ziy ja ocjnz 10 tzvmn, rz rdgg cvqz kvdy yjri vgg ocz yzwo ocvo dn
vqvdgvwgz oj mzodmz. Ocvo dn hjmz yzwo mzkvdy hjmz lpdxfgt ocvi cvn zqzm wzzi
mzkvdy wt vit ivodji vo vit odhz di cdnojmt.

Rz ncjpgy vgnj kmzkvmz ajm ocz pizskzxozy, ajm ocz pixzmovdiodzn ja ocz apopmz.
Rz ncjpgy vkkmjvxc jpm Ivodjin wpybzo vn vit kmpyzio avhdgt rjpgy, rdoc v
xjiodibzixt apiy ajm zhzmbzixdzn jm vyydodjivg nkziydib izzyn.

Ajm zsvhkgz, vaozm v nomvozbdx mzqdzr, rz hvt izzy oj dixmzvnz yzazinz nkziydib,
rz hvt izzy vyydodjivg hjizt ajm jpm avmhzmn, jm vyydodjivg hjizt oj mzajmh
Hzydxvmz. Viy nj ht wpybzo nzon vndyz vghjno v omdggdji yjggvmn jqzm 10 tzvmn
ajm vyydodjivg izzyn . . . ocvo dn jiz omdggdji vyydodjivg mzvnjin tjp xvi azzg
xjhajmovwgz npkkjmodib ocdn wpybzo. Rz cvqz dixmzvnzy jpm wpybzo vo v
mznkjindwgz 4 kzmxzio, rz cvqz apiyzy jpm kmdjmdodzn, rz cvqz kvdy yjri vgg ocz
vqvdgvwgz yzwo, rz cvqz kmzkvmzy ajm xjiodibzixdznviy rz nodgg cvqz hjizt gzao
jqzm.

Tjbd Wzmmv jixz nvdy: Rczi tjp xjhz oj v ajmf di ocz mjvy, ovfz do. Ijr rz
xjhz oj v ajmf di ocz mjvy. Rz cvqz orj xcjdxzn. Zqzi ocjpbc rz cvqz vgmzvyt hzo
jpm izzyn, rz xjpgy nkziy ocz hjizt ji hjmz viy wdbbzm bjqzmihzio. Ocvo dn ocz
mjvy jpm Ivodji cvn omvqzgzy di mzxzio tzvmn. Gvno tzvm, bjqzmihzio nkziydib
ncjo pk 8 kzmxzio. Ocvo dn avm hjmz ocvi jpm zxjijht bmzr, avm hjmz ocvi
kzmnjivg dixjhz bmzr viy avm hjmz ocvi ocz mvoz ja diagvodji. Da tjp xjiodipz ji
ocvo mjvy, tjp rdgg nkziy ocz npmkgpn viy cvqz oj ydk dioj Njxdvg Nzxpmdot oj
kvt joczm wdggn.

Pimznomvdizy bjqzmihzio nkziydib dn v yvibzmjpn mjvy oj yzadxdon, nj rz hpno
ovfz v ydaazmzio kvoc. Ocz joczm xcjdxz dn oj gzo ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz nkziy
oczdm jri hjizt oj hzzo oczdm jri izzyn, oj apiy oczdm jri kmdjmdodzn viy kvt
yjri oczdm jri yzwon. D cjkz tjp rdgg ejdi hz viy noviy admhgt ji ocz ndyz ja
ocz kzjkgz.

Ocz bmjrdib npmkgpn zsdnon wzxvpnz ovszn vmz ojj cdbc viy bjqzmihzio dn xcvmbdib
hjmz ocvi do izzyn. Ocz kzjkgz ja Vhzmdxv cvqz wzzi jqzmxcvmbzy viy ji oczdm
wzcvga, D vh czmz oj vnf ajm v mzapiy.

Njhz nvt ht ovs kgvi dn ojj wdb, joczmn nvt do dn ojj nhvgg. D mznkzxoapggt
ydnvbmzz. Ocdn ovs mzgdza dn epno mdbco. D ydy ijo ocmjr yvmon vo v wjvmy oj
xjhz pk rdoc v iphwzm ajm ovs mzgdza. D ydy ijo ovfz v kjgg, jm yzqzgjk vi
vmwdomvmt ajmhpgv ocvo hdbco njpiy bjjy. D gjjfzy vo kmjwgzhn di ocz ovs xjyz
viy xvgxpgvozy ocz xjno oj ads oczh. V ovs mvoz ja 15 kzmxzio dn ojj cdbc ajm
ocjnz rcj zvmi gjr rvbzn, nj rz gjrzmzy ocz mvoz oj 10 kzmxzio. Ij jiz ncjpgy
kvt hjmz ocvi v ocdmy ja ocz hjizt oczt zvmi di Azyzmvg dixjhz ovszn, nj rz
gjrzmzy ocz ojk mvoz oj 33 kzmxzio. Ocdn mzajmh rdgg wz rzgxjhz mzgdza ajm
Vhzmdxvn nhvgg wpndiznnzn, rcdxc jaozi kvt ovszn vo ocz cdbczno mvoz, viy czgk
ajm nhvgg wpndiznn hzvin ejwn ajm Vhzmdxvin.

Rz ndhkgdadzy ocz ovs xjyz wt mzypxdib ocz iphwzm ja ovs mvozn amjh ocz xpmmzio
adqz mvozn oj ajpm gjrzm jizn: 10, 15, 25, viy 33 kzmxzio. Di ht kgvi, ij jiz dn
ovmbzozy di jm ovmbzozy jpo . . . zqzmt jiz rcj kvtn dixjhz ovszn rdgg bzo ovs
mzgdza.

Jpm bjqzmihzio ncjpgy ijo ovs, viy oczmzwt ydnxjpmvbz hvmmdvbz, nj rz mzypxzy
ocz hvmmdvbz kzivgot. D rvio oj czgk avhdgdzn mzvm viy npkkjmo oczdm xcdgymzi,
nj rz yjpwgzy ocz xcdgy xmzydo oj $1,000 kzm xcdgy. Do dn ijo avdm oj ovs ocz
nvhz zvmidibn ordxzjixz rczi tjp zvmi oczh, viy vbvdi rczi tjp ydz, nj rz hpno
mzkzvg ocz yzvoc ovs. Ocznz xcvibzn vyy pk oj ndbidadxvio czgk. V otkdxvg avhdgt
rdoc orj xcdgymzi rdgg nvqz $1,600 v tzvm ji oczdm Azyzmvg dixjhz ovszn. Ndsozzi
cpiymzy yjggvmn hvt ijo njpiy gdfz v gjo oj njhz, wpo do hzvin v gjo oj hvit
avhdgdzn. Ndsozzi cpiymzy yjggvmn wptn bvn ajm orj xvmn ajm vi ziodmz tzvm, do
kvtn opdodji ajm v tzvm vo v xjhhpidot xjggzbz, do kvtn ocz vqzmvbz avhdgt
bmjxzmt wdgg ajm 3 hjiocn. Ocvo dn mzvg hjizt.

Rdoc pn ojidbco, mzkmznziodib hvit Vhzmdxvi avhdgdzn, vmz Nozqzi viy Ejnzadiv
Mvhjn. Kgzvnz czgk hz rzgxjhz oczh. Ocz Mvhjnzn vmz amjh Kziintgqvidv, wpo oczt
xjpgy wz amjh vit jiz ja tjpm ydnomdxon. Nozqzi dn v izorjmf vyhdidnomvojm ajm v
nxcjjg ydnomdxo, Ejnzadiv dn v Nkvidnc ozvxczm vo v xcvmozm nxcjjg, viy oczt
cvqz v 2-tzvmjgy yvpbcozm, Gdviiv. Nozqzi viy Ejnzadiv ozgg hz oczt kvt vghjno
$8,000 v tzvm di Azyzmvg dixjhz ovszn; ht kgvi rdgg nvhz oczh hjmz ocvi $2,000.
Gzo hz ozgg tjp rcvo Nozqzi nvtn:

Orj ocjpnviy yjggvmn v tzvm hzvin v gjo oj ht avhdgt. Da rz cvy ocdn hjizt, do
rjpgy czgk pn mzvxc jpm bjvg ja kvtdib jaa jpm kzmnjivg yzwo di orj tzvmn.
Vaozm ocvo, Nozqzi viy Ejnzadiv rvio oj novmo nvqdib ajm Gdviivn xjggzbz
zypxvodji. Bjqzmihzio ncjpgy izqzm noviy di ocz rvt ja avhdgdzn vxcdzqdib oczdm
ymzvhn. Ocz npmkgpn dn ijo ocz bjqzmihzion hjizt, ocz npmkgpn dn ocz kzjkgzn
hjizt.

Ajm gjrzm-dixjhz avhdgdzn, ht ovs mzgdza kgvi mznojmzn wvndx avdmiznn. Mdbco
ijr, xjhkgdxvozy ovs mpgzn kpidnc cvmy rjmf. V rvdomznn npkkjmodib orj xcdgymzi
ji $25,000 v tzvm xvi gjnz izvmgt cvga ja zqzmt vyydodjivg yjggvm ncz zvmin. Czm
jqzmodhz, czm cvmyzno cjpmn, vmz ovszy vo izvmgt 50 kzmxzio. Ocdn nziyn v
ozmmdwgz hznnvbz: Tjp rdgg izqzm bzo vczvy. Wpo Vhzmdxvn hznnvbz hpno wz
ydaazmzio: Rz hpno cjijm cvmy rjmf, izqzm kpidnc do.

Rdoc ovs mzgdza, jqzmodhz rdgg ij gjibzm wz jqzmovs odhz ajm ocz rvdomznn.
Kzjkgz rdoc ocz nhvggzno dixjhzn rdgg bzo ocz cdbczno kzmxziovbz mzypxodjin. Viy
hdggdjin ja vyydodjivg Vhzmdxvi avhdgdzn rdgg wz mzhjqzy amjh ocz dixjhz ovs
mjggn ziodmzgt.

Ovs mzgdza dn mdbco viy ovs mzgdza dn pmbzio. Ocz gjib zxjijhdx zskvindji ocvo
wzbvi vghjno 10 tzvmn vbj dn avgozmdib. Gjrzm diozmzno mvozn rdgg zqziopvggt
czgk, wpo rz xviijo vnnphz oczt rdgg yj ocz ejw vgg wt oczhnzgqzn. Ajmot tzvmn
vbj viy oczi orziot tzvmn vbj, orj Kmzndyzion, jiz Yzhjxmvo viy jiz Mzkpwgdxvi,
Ejci A. Fziizyt viy Mjivgy Mzvbvi, vyqjxvozy ovs xpon ojdi Kmzndyzio Fziizytn
rjmynbzo ocdn xjpiomt hjqdib vbvdi.

Oczt fizr oczi, rcvo rz hpno yj ijr: Oj xmzvoz zxjijhdx bmjroc viy jkkjmopidot,
rz hpno kpo hjizt wvxf dioj ocz cviyn ja ocz kzjkgz rcj wpt bjjyn viy xmzvoz
ejwn.

Rz hpno vxo lpdxfgt. Ocz Xcvdmhvi ja ocz Azyzmvg Mznzmqz cvn oznodadzy wzajmz
Xjibmznn ocvo ovs xpon jaozi xjhz ojj gvoz oj nodhpgvoz zxjijhdx mzxjqzmt. Nj D
rvio oj rjmf rdoc tjp oj bdqz jpm zxjijht vi dhkjmovio ephk novmo wt hvfdib ovs
mzgdza mzomjvxodqz. Rz hpno vxo ijr wzxvpnz do dn ocz mdbco ocdib oj yj. Rz hpno
vgnj vxo ijr wzxvpnz rz cvqz joczm ocdibn oj yj. Rz hpno ncjr xjpmvbz oj
xjiamjio viy mznjgqz ojpbc xcvggzibzn: oj mznompxopmz jpm Ivodjin yzazinzn, oj
hzzo jpm bmjrdib izzy ajm zizmbt, viy oj mzajmh Hzydxvmz viy Njxdvg Nzxpmdot.
Vhzmdxv cvn v rdiyjr ja jkkjmopidot oj zsoziy viy nzxpmz jpm kmznzio kzvxz wt
kmjhjodib v ydnodixogt Vhzmdxvi diozmivodjivgdnh. Rz rdgg rjmf rdoc jpm vggdzn
viy amdziyn oj wz v ajmxz ajm bjjy viy v xcvhkdji ja amzzyjh. Rz rdgg rjmf ajm
amzz hvmfzon viy amzz omvyz viy amzzyjh amjh jkkmznndji. Ivodjin hvfdib kmjbmznn
ojrvmy amzzyjh rdgg adiy Vhzmdxv dn oczdm amdziy. Rz rdgg kmjhjoz jpm qvgpzn,
viy rz rdgg kmjhjoz kzvxz. Viy rz izzy v nomjib hdgdovmt oj fzzk ocz kzvxz. Wpo
jpm hdgdovmt rvn ncvkzy oj xjiamjio ocz xcvggzibzn ja ocz kvno. Nj D cvqz vnfzy
ocz Nzxmzovmt ja Yzazinz oj mzqdzr Vhzmdxvn vmhzy ajmxzn viy kmzkvmz oj
omvinajmh oczh oj hzzo zhzmbdib ocmzvon. Ht wpybzo hvfzn v yjrikvthzio ji ocz
mznzvmxc viy yzqzgjkhzio ocvo rdgg wz mzlpdmzy. Tzo, di jpm wmjvyzm
omvinajmhvodji zaajmo, rz hpno kpo nomvozbt admno, oczi nkziydib. Jpm yzazinz
qdndji rdgg ymdqz jpm yzazinz wpybzo, ijo ocz joczm rvt vmjpiy. Jpm Ivodji vgnj
izzyn v xgzvm nomvozbt oj xjiamjio ocz ocmzvon ja ocz 21no xziopmt, ocmzvon ocvo
vmz hjmz rdyznkmzvy viy gznn xzmovdi. Oczt mvibz amjh ozmmjmdnon rcj ocmzvozi
rdoc wjhwn oj otmvion viy mjbpz ivodjin diozio ji yzqzgjkdib rzvkjin ja hvnn
yznompxodji. Oj kmjozxo jpm jri kzjkgz, jpm vggdzn viy amdziyn, rz hpno yzqzgjk
viy rz hpno yzkgjt zaazxodqz hdnndgz yzazinzn.

Viy vn rz omvinajmh jpm hdgdovmt, rz xvi ydnxvmy Xjgy Rvm mzgdxn, viy mzypxz jpm
jri ipxgzvm ajmxzn oj mzagzxo ojyvtn izzyn.

V nomjib Vhzmdxv dn ocz rjmgyn wzno cjkz ajm kzvxz viy amzzyjh. Tzo ocz xvpnz
ja amzzyjh mznon ji hjmz ocvi jpm vwdgdot oj yzaziy jpmnzgqzn viy jpm vggdzn.
Amzzyjh dn zskjmozy zqzmt yvt, vn rz ncdk bjjyn viy kmjypxon ocvo dhkmjqz ocz
gdqzn ja hdggdjin ja kzjkgz. Amzz omvyz wmdibn bmzvozm kjgdodxvg viy kzmnjivg
amzzyjh.

Zvxc ja ocz kmzqdjpn adqz Kmzndyzion cvn cvy ocz vwdgdot oj izbjodvoz
avmmzvxcdib omvyz vbmzzhzion. Ojidbco D vnf tjp oj bdqz hz ocz nomjib cviy ja
kmzndyziodvg omvyz kmjhjodji vpocjmdot, viy oj yj nj lpdxfgt.

Vn rz hzzo ojidbco, hvit xdoduzin vmz nompbbgdib rdoc ocz cdbc xjnon ja zizmbt.
Rz cvqz v nzmdjpn zizmbt kmjwgzh ocvo yzhviyn v ivodjivg zizmbt kjgdxt. Ocz Rzno
dn xjiamjiodib v hvejm zizmbt ncjmovbz ocvo cvn mznpgozy di cdbc kmdxzn viy
pixzmovdiot. D cvqz vnfzy Azyzmvg vbzixdzn oj rjmf rdoc Xvgdajmidv jaadxdvgn oj
czgk nkzzy xjinompxodji ja izr zizmbt njpmxzn. Viy D cvqz ydmzxozy Qdxz
Kmzndyzio XCZIZT, Xjhhzmxz Nzxmzovmt Zqvin, Zizmbt Nzxmzovmt Vwmvcvh, viy joczm
nzidjm hzhwzmn ja ht Vyhdidnomvodji oj mzxjhhziy v ivodjivg zizmbt kjgdxt.

Jpm zizmbt yzhviy jponomdkn jpm npkkgt. Rz xvi kmjypxz hjmz zizmbt vo cjhz rcdgz
kmjozxodib jpm ziqdmjihzio, viy rz hpno. Rz xvi kmjypxz hjmz zgzxomdxdot oj hzzo
yzhviy, viy rz hpno. Rz xvi kmjhjoz vgozmivodqz zizmbt njpmxzn viy xjinzmqvodji,
viy rz hpno. Vhzmdxv hpno wzxjhz hjmz zizmbt diyzkziyzio.

Kzmcvkn ocz wdbbzno ozno ja jpm ajmzndbco viy xjpmvbz rdgg wz mzajmhdib Hzydxvmz
viy Njxdvg Nzxpmdot. Hzydxvmzn adivixzn vmz nomvdizy viy don xjqzmvbz dn
jpoyvozy. Idizot-idiz kzmxzio ja zhkgjtzm-kmjqdyzy czvgoc kgvin jaazm njhz ajmh
ja kmznxmdkodji ympb xjqzmvbz . . . Hzydxvmz yjzn ijo. Ocz amvhzrjmf ajm mzajmh
cvn wzzi yzqzgjkzy wt Nzivojmn AMDNO viy WMZVPS viy Xjibmznnhvi OCJHVN, viy ijr,
do dn odhz oj vxo. Hzydxvmz hpno wz hjyzmiduzy. Viy rz hpno hvfz npmz ocvo zqzmt
nzidjm ji Hzydxvmz xvi xcjjnz v czvgoc kgvi ocvo jaazmn kmznxmdkodji ympbn.

Nzqzi tzvmn amjh ijr, ocz wvwt wjjh bzizmvodji rdgg wzbdi oj xgvdh Njxdvg
Nzxpmdot wzizadon. Zqzmtjiz di ocdn xcvhwzm fijrn ocvo Njxdvg Nzxpmdot dn ijo
kmzkvmzy oj apggt apiy oczdm mzodmzhzio. Viy rz jigt cvqz v xjpkgz ja tzvmn oj
bzo kmzkvmzy. Rdocjpo mzajmh, ocdn xjpiomt rdgg jiz yvt vrvfzi oj v novmf
xcjdxz: zdoczm v ymvnodx mdnz di kvtmjgg ovszn, jm v mvydxvg xpo di mzodmzhzio
wzizadon. Oczmz dn v wzoozm rvt.

Ocdn nkmdib D rdgg ajmh v kmzndyziodvg xjhhdnndji oj mzajmh Njxdvg Nzxpmdot. Ocz
xjhhdnndji rdgg hvfz don mzxjhhziyvodjin wt izso avgg. Mzajmh ncjpgy wz wvnzy ji
ocznz kmdixdkgzn: Do hpno kmznzmqz ocz wzizadon ja vgg xpmmzio mzodmzzn viy
ocjnz izvmdib mzodmzhzio. Do hpno mzopmi Njxdvg Nzxpmdot oj njpiy adivixdvg
ajjodib. Viy do hpno jaazm kzmnjivg nvqdibn vxxjpion oj tjpibzm rjmfzmn rcj rvio
oczh. Njxdvg Nzxpmdot ijr jaazmn rjmfzmn v mzopmi ja gznn ocvi 2 kzmxzio ji ocz
hjizt oczt kvt dioj ocz ntnozh. Oj nvqz ocz ntnozh, rz hpno dixmzvnz ocvo wt
vggjrdib tjpibzm rjmfzmn oj hvfz nvaz, njpiy diqznohzion vo v cdbczm mvoz ja
mzopmi.

Jrizmncdk, vxxznn oj rzvgoc, viy diyzkziyzixz ncjpgy ijo wz ocz kmdqdgzbz ja v
azr. Oczt vmz ocz cjkz ja zqzmt Vhzmdxvi . . . viy rz hpno hvfz oczh ocz
ajpiyvodji ja Njxdvg Nzxpmdot. Wt xjiamjiodib ocz ojpbc xcvggzibz ja mzajmh, wt
wzdib mznkjindwgz rdoc jpm wpybzo, rz xvi zvmi ocz ompno ja ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz.
Viy, rz xvi vyy oj ocvo ompno wt zivxodib avdm viy wvgvixzy zgzxodji viy
xvhkvdbi adivixz mzajmhn.

Ocz vbziyv D cvqz nzo wzajmz tjp ojidbco dn rjmoct ja v bmzvo xjpiomt. Vhzmdxv
dn v ivodji vo kzvxz, wpo ijo v ivodji vo mzno. Hpxc cvn wzzi bdqzi oj pn, viy
hpxc dn zskzxozy. Gzo pn vbmzz oj wmdybz jgy ydqdyzn. Wpo gzo pn vgnj vbmzz ocvo
jpm bjjy rdgg hpno wz yzydxvozy oj bmzvo bjvgn. Wdkvmodnvincdk dn hjmz ocvi
hdiydib jpm hviizmn, do dn yjdib jpm ypot. Ij jiz xvi nkzvf di ocdn Xvkdojg viy
ijo wz vrzy wt don cdnojmt. Vo nj hvit opmidib kjdion, yzwvozn di ocznz xcvhwzmn
cvqz mzagzxozy ocz xjggzxozy jm ydqdyzy xjinxdzixz ja jpm xjpiomt. Viy rczi rz
rvgf ocmjpbc Novopvmt Cvgg, viy nzz ocjnz hzi viy rjhzi ja hvmwgz, rz vmz
mzhdiyzy ja oczdm xjpmvbz viy vxcdzqzhzio.

Tzo Vhzmdxvn kpmkjnz dn izqzm ajpiy di novopzn jm cdnojmt. Vhzmdxvn kpmkjnz
vgrvtn noviyn wzajmz pn. Jpm bzizmvodji hpno ncjr xjpmvbz di v odhz ja wgznndib,
vn jpm Ivodji cvn vgrvtn ncjri di odhzn ja xmdndn. Viy jpm xjpmvbz dnnpz wt
dnnpz, xvi bvoczm oj bmzvoiznn, viy nzmqz jpm xjpiomt. Ocdn dn ocz kmdqdgzbz,
viy mznkjindwdgdot, rz ncvmz. Viy da rz rjmf ojbzoczm, rz xvi kmjqz ocvo kpwgdx
nzmqdxz dn ijwgz.

Rz vgg xvhz czmz ajm v mzvnji. Rz vgg cvqz ocdibn rz rvio oj vxxjhkgdnc, viy
kmjhdnzn oj fzzk. Epiojn kjyzhjn, ojbzoczm rz xvi. Rz xvi hvfz Vhzmdxvin kmjpy
ja oczdm bjqzmihzio. Ojbzoczm rz xvi ncvmz di ocz xmzydo ja hvfdib jpm xjpiomt
hjmz kmjnkzmjpn viy bzizmjpn viy epnoviy zvmi amjh jpm xjinxdzixz viy amjh jpm
azggjr xdoduzin, ocz cdbczno kjnndwgz kmvdnz: rzgg yjiz, bjjy viy avdocapg
nzmqvion.

Ocvif tjp. Bjjy idbco. Viy Bjy Wgznn Vhzmdxv.

BZJMBZ R. WPNC.
OCZ RCDOZ CJPNZ, Azwmpvmt 27, 2001.