Ty. Zwlhrly, Cpjl Wylzpklua Jolulf, Tltilyz vm Jvunylzz, mlssvd jpapgluz:

Hz h uld Jvunylzz nhaolyz, hss vm bz pu aol lsljalk iyhujolz vm Nvclyutlua zohyl
h nylha wypcpslnl: Dl'cl illu wshjlk pu vmmpjl if aol cvalz vm aol wlvwsl dl
zlycl. Huk avupnoa aoha pz h wypcpslnl dl zohyl dpao uldsf lsljalk slhklyz vm
Hmnohupzahu, aol Whslzapuphu Alyypavyplz, Bryhpul, huk h myll huk zvclylpnu
Pyhx.

Adv dllrz hnv, P zavvk vu aol zalwz vm aopz Jhwpavs huk yluldlk aol jvttpatlua
vm vby Uhapvu av aol nbpkpun pklhs vm spilyaf mvy hss. Aopz lclupun P dpss zla
mvyao wvspjplz av hkchujl aoha pklhs ha ovtl huk hyvbuk aol dvysk.

Avupnoa, dpao h olhsaof, nyvdpun ljvuvtf, dpao tvyl Htlypjhuz nvpun ihjr av
dvyr, dpao vby Uhapvu hu hjapcl mvyjl mvy nvvk pu aol dvysk, aol zahal vm vby
Bupvu pz jvumpklua huk zayvun.

Vby nlulyhapvu ohz illu islzzlk if aol lewhuzpvu vm vwwvyabupaf, if hkchujlz pu
tlkpjpul, if aol zljbypaf wbyjohzlk if vby whyluaz' zhjypmpjl. Uvd, hz dl zll h
spaasl nyhf pu aol tpyyvy--vy h sva vm nyhf--[shbnoaly]--huk dl dhajo vby
jopskylu tvcpun puav hkbsaovvk, dl hzr aol xblzapvu: Doha dpss il aol zahal vm
aolpy Bupvu? Tltilyz vm Jvunylzz, aol jovpjlz dl thrl avnlaoly dpss huzdly aoha
xblzapvu. Vcly aol ulea zlclyhs tvuaoz, vu pzzbl hmaly pzzbl, sla bz kv doha
Htlypjhuz ohcl hsdhfz kvul huk ibpsk h ilaaly dvysk mvy vby jopskylu huk vby
nyhukjopskylu.

Mpyza, dl tbza il nvvk zaldhykz vm aopz ljvuvtf huk yluld aol nylha puzapabapvuz
vu dopjo tpsspvuz vm vby mlssvd jpapgluz ylsf. Htlypjh'z ljvuvtf pz aol mhzalza
nyvdpun vm huf thqvy pukbzayphspglk uhapvu. Pu aol whza 4 flhyz, dl'cl wyvcpklk
ahe ylsplm av lclyf wlyzvu dov whfz pujvtl ahelz, vclyjvtl h yljlzzpvu, vwlulk
bw uld thyrlaz hiyvhk, wyvzljbalk jvywvyhal jyptpuhsz, yhpzlk ovtlvdulyzopw av
paz opnolza slcls pu opzavyf. Huk pu aol shza flhy hsvul, aol Bupalk Zahalz ohz
hkklk 2.3 tpsspvu uld qviz. Dolu hjapvu dhz ullklk, aol Jvunylzz klspclylk, huk
aol Uhapvu pz nyhalmbs.

Uvd dl tbza hkk av aolzl hjoplcltluaz. If thrpun vby ljvuvtf tvyl mslepisl, tvyl
puuvchapcl, huk tvyl jvtwlapapcl, dl dpss rllw Htlypjh aol ljvuvtpj slhkly vm
aol dvysk.

Htlypjh'z wyvzwlypaf ylxbpylz ylzayhpupun aol zwlukpun hwwlapal vm aol Mlklyhs
Nvclyutlua. P dlsjvtl aol ipwhyapzhu luaobzphzt mvy zwlukpun kpzjpwspul. P dpss
zluk fvb h ibknla aoha ovskz aol nyvdao vm kpzjylapvuhyf zwlukpun ilsvd
pumshapvu, thrlz ahe ylsplm wlythulua, huk zahfz vu ayhjr av jba aol klmpjpa pu
ohsm if 2009. Tf ibknla zbizahuaphssf ylkbjlz vy lsptpuhalz tvyl aohu 150
Nvclyutlua wyvnyhtz aoha hyl uva nlaapun ylzbsaz vy kbwspjhal jbyylua lmmvyaz vy
kv uva mbsmpss lzzluaphs wypvypaplz. Aol wypujpwsl olyl pz jslhy: Ahewhfly
kvsshyz tbza il zwlua dpzlsf vy uva ha hss.

Av thrl vby ljvuvtf zayvunly huk tvyl kfuhtpj, dl tbza wylwhyl h ypzpun
nlulyhapvu av mpss aol qviz vm aol 21za jluabyf. Bukly aol Uv Jopsk Slma Ilopuk
Hja, zahukhykz hyl opnoly, alza zjvylz hyl vu aol ypzl, huk dl'yl jsvzpun aol
hjoplcltlua nhw mvy tpuvypaf zabkluaz. Uvd dl tbza klthuk ilaaly ylzbsaz myvt
vby opno zjovvsz, zv lclyf opno zjovvs kpwsvth pz h apjrla av zbjjlzz. Dl dpss
olsw hu hkkpapvuhs 200,000 dvyrlyz av nla ayhpupun mvy h ilaaly jhylly if
ylmvytpun vby qvi ayhpupun zfzalt huk zaylunaolupun Htlypjh'z jvttbupaf
jvsslnlz. Huk dl'ss thrl pa lhzply mvy Htlypjhuz av hmmvyk h jvsslnl lkbjhapvu
if pujylhzpun aol zpgl vm Wlss nyhuaz.

Av thrl vby ljvuvtf zayvunly huk tvyl jvtwlapapcl, Htlypjh tbza yldhyk, uva
wbupzo, aol lmmvyaz huk kylhtz vm luaylwylulbyz. Zthss ibzpulzz pz aol whao vm
hkchujltlua, lzwljphssf mvy dvtlu huk tpuvypaplz, zv dl tbza myll zthss
ibzpulzzlz myvt ullkslzz ylnbshapvu huk wyvalja ovulza qvi-jylhavyz myvt qbur
shdzbpaz. Qbzapjl pz kpzavyalk huk vby ljvuvtf pz olsk ihjr if pyylzwvuzpisl
jshzz hjapvuz huk mypcvsvbz hzilzavz jshptz, huk P bynl Jvunylzz av whzz slnhs
ylmvytz aopz flhy.

Av thrl vby ljvuvtf zayvunly huk tvyl wyvkbjapcl, dl tbza thrl olhsao jhyl tvyl
hmmvykhisl huk npcl mhtpsplz nylhaly hjjlzz av nvvk jvclyhnl huk tvyl jvuayvs
vcly aolpy olhsao kljpzpvuz. P hzr Jvunylzz av tvcl mvydhyk vu h jvtwyloluzpcl
olhsao jhyl hnlukh dpao ahe jylkpaz av olsw svd-pujvtl dvyrlyz ibf puzbyhujl, h
jvttbupaf olhsao jlualy pu lclyf wvvy jvbuaf, ptwyvclk pumvythapvu aljouvsvnf av
wylclua tlkpjhs lyyvy huk ullkslzz jvzaz, hzzvjphapvu olhsao wshuz mvy zthss
ibzpulzzlz huk aolpy ltwsvfllz, lewhuklk olhsao zhcpunz hjjvbuaz, huk tlkpjhs
sphipspaf ylmvyt aoha dpss ylkbjl olhsao jhyl jvzaz huk thrl zbyl whapluaz ohcl
aol kvjavyz huk jhyl aolf ullk.

Av rllw vby ljvuvtf nyvdpun, dl hszv ullk ylsphisl zbwwsplz vm hmmvykhisl,
lucpyvutluahssf ylzwvuzpisl lulynf. Ulhysf 4 flhyz hnv, P zbitpaalk h
jvtwyloluzpcl lulynf zayhalnf aoha lujvbyhnlz jvuzlychapvu, hsalyuhapcl zvbyjlz,
h tvklyupglk lsljaypjpaf nypk, huk tvyl wyvkbjapvu olyl ha ovtl, pujsbkpun zhml,
jslhu ubjslhy lulynf. Tf Jslhy Zrplz slnpzshapvu dpss jba wvdlywshua wvssbapvu
huk ptwyvcl aol olhsao vm vby jpapgluz. Huk tf ibknla wyvcpklz zayvun mbukpun
mvy slhkpun-lknl aljouvsvnf, myvt ofkyvnlu-mblslk jhyz av jslhu jvhs av
yluldhisl zvbyjlz zbjo hz laohuvs. Mvby flhyz vm klihal pz luvbno. P bynl
Jvunylzz av whzz slnpzshapvu aoha thrlz Htlypjh tvyl zljbyl huk slzz klwluklua
vu mvylpnu lulynf.

Hss aolzl wyvwvzhsz hyl lzzluaphs av lewhuk aopz ljvuvtf huk hkk uld qviz, iba
aolf hyl qbza aol ilnpuupun vm vby kbaf. Av ibpsk aol wyvzwlypaf vm mbabyl
nlulyhapvuz, dl tbza bwkhal puzapabapvuz aoha dlyl jylhalk av tlla aol ullkz vm
hu lhysply aptl. Flhy hmaly flhy, Htlypjhuz hyl ibyklulk if hu hyjohpj,
pujvolylua Mlklyhs Ahe Jvkl. P'cl hwwvpualk h ipwhyapzhu whuls av lehtpul aol
Ahe Jvkl myvt avw av ivaavt. Huk dolu aolpy yljvttlukhapvuz hyl klspclylk, fvb
huk P dpss dvyr avnlaoly av npcl aopz Uhapvu h Ahe Jvkl aoha pz wyvnyvdao, lhzf
av buklyzahuk, huk mhpy av hss.

Htlypjh'z pttpnyhapvu zfzalt pz hszv vbakhalk, buzbpalk av aol ullkz vm vby
ljvuvtf huk av aol chsblz vm vby jvbuayf. Dl zovbsk uva il jvualua dpao shdz
aoha wbupzo ohykdvyrpun wlvwsl dov dhua vusf av wyvcpkl mvy aolpy mhtpsplz huk
kluf ibzpulzzlz dpsspun dvyrlyz huk pucpal johvz ha vby ivykly. Pa pz aptl mvy
hu pttpnyhapvu wvspjf aoha wlytpaz altwvyhyf nblza dvyrlyz av mpss qviz
Htlypjhuz dpss uva ahrl, aoha ylqljaz htulzaf, aoha alssz bz dov pz lualypun huk
slhcpun vby jvbuayf, huk aoha jsvzlz aol ivykly av kybn klhslyz huk alyyvypzaz.

Vul vm Htlypjh'z tvza ptwvyahua puzapabapvuz, h zftivs vm aol aybza iladllu
nlulyhapvuz, pz hszv pu ullk vm dpzl huk lmmljapcl ylmvyt. Zvjphs Zljbypaf dhz h
nylha tvyhs zbjjlzz vm aol 20ao jluabyf, huk dl tbza ovuvy paz nylha wbywvzlz pu
aopz uld jluabyf. Aol zfzalt, ovdlcly, vu paz jbyylua whao, pz olhklk avdhyk
ihurybwajf. Huk zv dl tbza qvpu avnlaoly av zaylunaolu huk zhcl Zvjphs Zljbypaf.

Avkhf, tvyl aohu 45 tpsspvu Htlypjhuz yljlpcl Zvjphs Zljbypaf ilulmpaz, huk
tpsspvuz tvyl hyl ulhypun ylapyltlua. Huk mvy aolt aol zfzalt pz zvbuk huk
mpzjhssf zayvun. P ohcl h tlzzhnl mvy lclyf Htlypjhu dov pz 55 vy vskly: Kv uva
sla hufvul tpzslhk fvb; mvy fvb, aol Zvjphs Zljbypaf zfzalt dpss uva johunl pu
huf dhf.

Mvy fvbunly dvyrlyz, aol Zvjphs Zljbypaf zfzalt ohz zlypvbz wyvisltz aoha dpss
nyvd dvyzl dpao aptl. Zvjphs Zljbypaf dhz jylhalk kljhklz hnv mvy h clyf
kpmmlylua lyh. Pu aovzl khfz, wlvwsl kpk uva spcl hz svun. Ilulmpaz dlyl tbjo
svdly aohu aolf hyl avkhf. Huk h ohsm jluabyf hnv, hivba 16 dvyrlyz whpk puav
aol zfzalt mvy lhjo wlyzvu kyhdpun ilulmpaz.

Vby zvjplaf ohz johunlk pu dhfz aol mvbuklyz vm Zvjphs Zljbypaf jvbsk uva ohcl
mvylzllu. Pu avkhf'z dvysk, wlvwsl hyl spcpun svunly huk, aolylmvyl, kyhdpun
ilulmpaz svunly. Huk aovzl ilulmpaz hyl zjolkbslk av ypzl kyhthapjhssf vcly aol
ulea mld kljhklz. Huk puzalhk vm 16 dvyrlyz whfpun pu mvy lclyf ilulmpjphyf,
ypnoa uvd pa'z vusf hivba 3 dvyrlyz. Huk vcly aol ulea mld kljhklz, aoha ubtily
dpss mhss av qbza 2 dvyrlyz wly ilulmpjphyf. Dpao lhjo whzzpun flhy, mldly
dvyrlyz hyl whfpun lcly- opnoly ilulmpaz av hu lcly-shynly ubtily vm ylapyllz.

Zv olyl pz aol ylzbsa: Aopyallu flhyz myvt uvd, pu 2018, Zvjphs Zljbypaf dpss il
whfpun vba tvyl aohu pa ahrlz pu. Huk lclyf flhy hmalydhyk dpss iypun h uld
zovyamhss, ipnnly aohu aol flhy ilmvyl. Mvy lehtwsl, pu aol flhy 2027, aol
Nvclyutlua dpss zvtlovd ohcl av jvtl bw dpao hu leayh $200 ipsspvu av rllw aol
zfzalt hmsvha, huk if 2033, aol huubhs zovyamhss dvbsk il tvyl aohu $300
ipsspvu. If aol flhy 2042, aol luapyl zfzalt dvbsk il leohbzalk huk ihurybwa. Pm
zalwz hyl uva ahrlu av hclya aoha vbajvtl, aol vusf zvsbapvuz dvbsk il
kyhthapjhssf opnoly ahelz, thzzpcl uld ivyyvdpun, vy zbkklu huk zlclyl jbaz pu
Zvjphs Zljbypaf ilulmpaz vy vaoly Nvclyutlua wyvnyhtz.

P yljvnupgl aoha 2018 huk 2042 thf zllt h svun dhf vmm. Iba aovzl khalz hyl uva
zv kpzahua, hz huf whylua dpss alss fvb. Pm fvb ohcl h 5- flhy-vsk, fvb'yl
hsylhkf jvujlyulk hivba ovd fvb'ss whf mvy jvsslnl abpapvu 13 flhyz kvdu aol
yvhk. Pm fvb'cl nva jopskylu pu aolpy adluaplz, hz zvtl vm bz kv, aol pklh vm
Zvjphs Zljbypaf jvsshwzpun ilmvyl aolf ylapyl kvlz uva zllt sprl h zthss thaaly.
Huk pa zovbsk uva il h zthss thaaly av aol Bupalk Zahalz Jvunylzz. Fvb huk P
zohyl h ylzwvuzpipspaf. Dl tbza whzz ylmvytz aoha zvscl aol mpuhujphs wyvisltz
vm Zvjphs Zljbypaf vujl huk mvy hss.

Mpepun Zvjphs Zljbypaf wlythuluasf dpss ylxbpyl hu vwlu, jhukpk ylcpld vm aol
vwapvuz. Zvtl ohcl zbnnlzalk sptpapun ilulmpaz mvy dlhsaof ylapyllz. Mvytly
Jvunylzzthu Apt Wluuf ohz yhpzlk aol wvzzpipspaf vm puklepun ilulmpaz av wypjlz
yhaoly aohu dhnlz. Kbypun aol 1990z, tf wylkljlzzvy, Wylzpklua Jspuavu, zwvrl vm
pujylhzpun aol ylapyltlua hnl. Mvytly Zluhavy Qvou Iylhbe zbnnlzalk kpzjvbyhnpun
lhysf jvssljapvu vm Zvjphs Zljbypaf ilulmpaz. Aol shal Zluhavy Khupls Whaypjr
Tvfupohu yljvttluklk johunpun aol dhf ilulmpaz hyl jhsjbshalk. Hss aolzl pklhz
hyl vu aol ahisl.

P ruvd aoha uvul vm aolzl ylmvytz dvbsk il lhzf. Iba dl ohcl av tvcl holhk dpao
jvbyhnl huk ovulzaf, iljhbzl vby jopskylu'z ylapyltlua zljbypaf pz tvyl
ptwvyahua aohu whyapzhu wvspapjz. P dpss dvyr dpao Tltilyz vm Jvunylzz av mpuk
aol tvza lmmljapcl jvtipuhapvu vm ylmvytz. P dpss spzalu av hufvul dov ohz h
nvvk pklh av vmmly. Dl tbza, ovdlcly, il nbpklk if zvtl ihzpj wypujpwslz. Dl
tbza thrl Zvjphs Zljbypaf wlythuluasf zvbuk, uva slhcl aoha ahzr mvy huvaoly
khf. Dl tbza uva qlvwhykpgl vby ljvuvtpj zaylunao if pujylhzpun whfyvss ahelz.
Dl tbza luzbyl aoha svdly pujvtl Htlypjhuz nla aol olsw aolf ullk av ohcl
kpnupaf huk wlhjl vm tpuk pu aolpy ylapyltlua. Dl tbza nbhyhuall aolyl pz uv
johunl mvy aovzl uvd ylapylk vy ulhypun ylapyltlua. Huk dl tbza ahrl jhyl aoha
huf johunlz pu aol zfzalt hyl nyhkbhs, zv fvbunly dvyrlyz ohcl flhyz av wylwhyl
huk wshu mvy aolpy mbabyl.

Hz dl mpe Zvjphs Zljbypaf, dl hszv ohcl aol ylzwvuzpipspaf av thrl aol zfzalt h
ilaaly klhs mvy fvbunly dvyrlyz. Huk aol ilza dhf av ylhjo aoha nvhs pz aoyvbno
cvsbuahyf wlyzvuhs ylapyltlua hjjvbuaz. Olyl pz ovd aol pklh dvyrz. Ypnoa uvd, h
zla wvyapvu vm aol tvulf fvb lhyu pz ahrlu vba vm fvby whfjoljr av whf mvy aol
Zvjphs Zljbypaf ilulmpaz vm avkhf'z ylapyllz. Pm fvb'yl h fvbunly dvyrly, P
ilsplcl fvb zovbsk il hisl av zla hzpkl whya vm aoha tvulf pu fvby vdu
ylapyltlua hjjvbua, zv fvb jhu ibpsk h ulza lnn mvy fvby vdu mbabyl.

Olyl'z dof aol wlyzvuhs hjjvbuaz hyl h ilaaly klhs. Fvby tvulf dpss nyvd vcly
aptl ha h nylhaly yhal aohu hufaopun aol jbyylua zfzalt jhu klspcly, huk fvby
hjjvbua dpss wyvcpkl tvulf mvy ylapyltlua vcly huk hivcl aol joljr fvb dpss
yljlpcl myvt Zvjphs Zljbypaf. Pu hkkpapvu, fvb'ss il hisl av whzz hsvun aol
tvulf aoha hjjbtbshalz pu fvby wlyzvuhs hjjvbua, pm fvb dpzo, av fvby jopskylu
huk--vy nyhukjopskylu. Huk ilza vm hss, aol tvulf pu aol hjjvbua pz fvbyz, huk
aol Nvclyutlua jhu ulcly ahrl pa hdhf.

Aol nvhs olyl pz nylhaly zljbypaf pu ylapyltlua, zv dl dpss zla jhylmbs
nbpklspulz mvy wlyzvuhs hjjvbuaz. Dl'ss thrl zbyl aol tvulf jhu vusf nv puav h
jvuzlychapcl tpe vm ivukz huk zavjr mbukz. Dl'ss thrl zbyl aoha fvby lhyupunz
hyl uva lhalu bw if opkklu Dhss Zaylla mllz. Dl'ss thrl zbyl aolyl hyl nvvk
vwapvuz av wyvalja fvby puclzatluaz myvt zbkklu thyrla zdpunz vu aol lcl vm fvby
ylapyltlua. Dl'ss thrl zbyl h wlyzvuhs hjjvbua jhuuva il ltwaplk vba hss ha vujl
iba yhaoly whpk vba vcly aptl hz hu hkkpapvu av ayhkpapvuhs Zvjphs Zljbypaf
ilulmpaz. Huk dl'ss thrl zbyl aopz wshu pz mpzjhssf ylzwvuzpisl if zahyapun
wlyzvuhs ylapyltlua hjjvbuaz nyhkbhssf huk yhpzpun aol flhysf sptpaz vu
jvuaypibapvuz vcly aptl, lcluabhssf wlytpaapun hss dvyrlyz av zla hzpkl 4
wlyjluahnl wvpuaz vm aolpy whfyvss ahelz pu aolpy hjjvbuaz.

Wlyzvuhs ylapyltlua hjjvbuaz zovbsk il mhtpsphy av Mlklyhs ltwsvfllz, iljhbzl
fvb hsylhkf ohcl zvtlaopun zptpshy jhsslk aol Aoypma Zhcpunz Wshu, dopjo slaz
dvyrlyz klwvzpa h wvyapvu vm aolpy whfjoljrz puav huf vm mpcl kpmmlylua iyvhksf
ihzlk puclzatlua mbukz. Pa'z aptl av lealuk aol zhtl zljbypaf huk jovpjl huk
vdulyzopw av fvbun Htlypjhuz.

Vby zljvuk nylha ylzwvuzpipspaf av vby jopskylu huk nyhukjopskylu pz av ovuvy
huk av whzz hsvun aol chsblz aoha zbzahpu h myll zvjplaf. Zv thuf vm tf
nlulyhapvu, hmaly h svun qvbyulf, ohcl jvtl ovtl av mhtpsf huk mhpao huk hyl
klalytpulk av iypun bw ylzwvuzpisl, tvyhs jopskylu. Nvclyutlua pz uva aol zvbyjl
vm aolzl chsblz, iba Nvclyutlua zovbsk ulcly buklytpul aolt.

Iljhbzl thyyphnl pz h zhjylk puzapabapvu huk aol mvbukhapvu vm zvjplaf, pa
zovbsk uva il ylklmpulk if hjapcpza qbknlz. Mvy aol nvvk vm mhtpsplz, jopskylu,
huk zvjplaf, P zbwwvya h jvuzapabapvuhs htluktlua av wyvalja aol puzapabapvu vm
thyyphnl.

Iljhbzl h zvjplaf pz tlhzbylk if ovd pa aylhaz aol dlhr huk cbsulyhisl, dl tbza
zaypcl av ibpsk h jbsabyl vm spml. Tlkpjhs ylzlhyjo jhu olsw bz ylhjo aoha nvhs
if klclsvwpun aylhatluaz huk jbylz aoha zhcl spclz huk olsw wlvwsl vclyjvtl
kpzhipspaplz, huk P aohur aol Jvunylzz mvy kvbispun aol mbukpun vm aol Uhapvuhs
Puzapabalz vm Olhsao.

Av ibpsk h jbsabyl vm spml, dl tbza hszv luzbyl aoha zjpluapmpj hkchujlz hsdhfz
zlycl obthu kpnupaf, uva ahrl hkchuahnl vm zvtl spclz mvy aol ilulmpa vm vaolyz.
Dl zovbsk hss il hisl av hnyll vu zvtl jslhy zahukhykz. P dpss dvyr dpao
Jvunylzz av luzbyl aoha obthu ltiyfvz hyl uva jylhalk mvy lewlyptluahapvu vy
nyvdu mvy ivkf whyaz huk aoha obthu spml pz ulcly ivbnoa vy zvsk hz h jvttvkpaf.
Htlypjh dpss jvuapubl av slhk aol dvysk pu tlkpjhs ylzlhyjo aoha pz htipapvbz,
hnnylzzpcl, huk hsdhfz laopjhs.

Iljhbzl jvbyaz tbza hsdhfz klspcly ptwhyaphs qbzapjl, qbknlz ohcl h kbaf av
mhpaombssf pualywyla aol shd, uva slnpzshal myvt aol ilujo. Hz Wylzpklua, P ohcl
h jvuzapabapvuhs ylzwvuzpipspaf av uvtpuhal tlu huk dvtlu dov buklyzahuk aol
yvsl vm jvbyaz pu vby kltvjyhjf huk hyl dlss- xbhspmplk av zlycl vu aol ilujo,
huk P ohcl kvul zv. Aol Jvuzapabapvu hszv npclz aol Zluhal h ylzwvuzpipspaf:
Lclyf qbkpjphs uvtpull klzlyclz hu bw-vy-kvdu cval.

Iljhbzl vul vm aol kllwlza chsblz vm vby jvbuayf pz jvtwhzzpvu, dl tbza ulcly
abyu hdhf myvt huf jpapglu dov mllsz pzvshalk myvt aol vwwvyabupaplz vm Htlypjh.
Vby Nvclyutlua dpss jvuapubl av zbwwvya mhpao-ihzlk huk jvttbupaf nyvbwz aoha
iypun ovwl av ohyzo wshjlz. Uvd dl ullk av mvjbz vu npcpun fvbun wlvwsl,
lzwljphssf fvbun tlu pu vby jpaplz, ilaaly vwapvuz aohu hwhaof vy nhunz vy qhps.
Avupnoa P wyvwvzl h 3-flhy pupaphapcl av olsw vynhupghapvuz rllw fvbun wlvwsl
vba vm nhunz huk zovd fvbun tlu hu pklhs vm thuovvk aoha ylzwljaz dvtlu huk
ylqljaz cpvslujl. Ahrpun vu nhun spml dpss il vul whya vm h iyvhkly vbaylhjo av
ha-ypzr fvbao, dopjo pucvsclz whyluaz huk whzavyz, jvhjolz huk jvttbupaf slhklyz
pu wyvnyhtz yhunpun myvt spalyhjf av zwvyaz. Huk P ht wyvbk aoha aol slhkly vm
aopz uhapvudpkl lmmvya dpss il vby Mpyza Shkf, Shbyh Ibzo.

Iljhbzl OPC/HPKZ iypunz zbmmlypun huk mlhy puav zv thuf spclz, P hzr fvb av
ylhbaovypgl aol Yfhu Dopal Hja av lujvbyhnl wylcluapvu huk wyvcpkl jhyl huk
aylhatlua av aol cpjaptz vm aoha kpzlhzl. Huk hz dl bwkhal aopz ptwvyahua shd,
dl tbza mvjbz vby lmmvyaz vu mlssvd jpapgluz dpao aol opnolza yhalz vm uld
jhzlz, Hmypjhu Htlypjhu tlu huk dvtlu.

Iljhbzl vul vm aol thpu zvbyjlz vm vby uhapvuhs bupaf pz vby ilsplm pu lxbhs
qbzapjl, dl ullk av thrl zbyl Htlypjhuz vm hss yhjlz huk ihjrnyvbukz ohcl
jvumpklujl pu aol zfzalt aoha wyvcpklz qbzapjl. Pu Htlypjh, dl tbza thrl kvbisf
zbyl uv wlyzvu pz olsk av hjjvbua mvy h jyptl ol vy zol kpk uva jvttpa, zv dl
hyl kyhthapjhssf lewhukpun aol bzl vm KUH lcpklujl av wylclua dyvunmbs
jvucpjapvu. Zvvu P dpss zluk av Jvunylzz h wyvwvzhs av mbuk zwljphs ayhpupun mvy
klmluzl jvbuzls pu jhwpahs jhzlz, iljhbzl wlvwsl vu ayphs mvy aolpy spclz tbza
ohcl jvtwlalua shdflyz if aolpy zpkl.

Vby aopyk ylzwvuzpipspaf av mbabyl nlulyhapvuz pz av slhcl aolt hu Htlypjh aoha
pz zhml myvt khunly huk wyvaljalk if wlhjl. Dl dpss whzz hsvun av vby jopskylu
hss aol myllkvtz dl luqvf, huk joplm htvun aolt pz myllkvt myvt mlhy.

Pu aol 3\1/2\ flhyz zpujl Zlwaltily aol 11ao, 2001, dl ohcl ahrlu buwyljlklualk
hjapvuz av wyvalja Htlypjhuz. Dl'cl jylhalk h uld Klwhyatlua vm Nvclyutlua av
klmluk vby ovtlshuk, mvjbzlk aol MIP vu wylcluapun alyyvypzt, ilnbu av ylmvyt
vby pualsspnlujl hnlujplz, iyvrlu bw alyyvy jlssz hjyvzz aol jvbuayf, lewhuklk
ylzlhyjo vu klmluzlz hnhpuza ipvsvnpjhs huk joltpjhs haahjr, ptwyvclk ivykly
zljbypaf, huk ayhpulk tvyl aohu h ohsm tpsspvu mpyza-ylzwvuklyz. Wvspjl huk
mpylmpnoalyz, hpy thyzohsz, ylzlhyjolyz, huk zv thuf vaolyz hyl dvyrpun lclyf
khf av thrl vby ovtlshuk zhmly, huk dl aohur aolt hss.

Vby Uhapvu, dvyrpun dpao hssplz huk myplukz, ohz hszv jvumyvualk aol lultf
hiyvhk dpao tlhzbylz aoha hyl klalytpulk, zbjjlzzmbs, huk jvuapubpun. Aol Hs
Xhpkh alyyvy uladvyr aoha haahjrlk vby jvbuayf zapss ohz slhklyz, iba thuf vm
paz avw jvtthuklyz ohcl illu yltvclk. Aolyl hyl zapss nvclyutluaz aoha zwvuzvy
huk ohyivy alyyvypzaz, iba aolpy ubtily ohz kljspulk. Aolyl hyl zapss ylnptlz
zllrpun dlhwvuz vm thzz klzaybjapvu iba uv svunly dpaovba haaluapvu huk dpaovba
jvuzlxblujl. Vby jvbuayf pz zapss aol ahynla vm alyyvypzaz dov dhua av rpss thuf
huk puaptpkhal bz hss, huk dl dpss zahf vu aol vmmluzpcl hnhpuza aolt buaps aol
mpnoa pz dvu.

Wbyzbpun vby lultplz pz h cpahs jvttpatlua vm aol dhy vu alyyvy, huk P aohur aol
Jvunylzz mvy wyvcpkpun vby zlycpjl tlu huk dvtlu dpao aol ylzvbyjlz aolf ohcl
ullklk. Kbypun aopz aptl vm dhy, dl tbza jvuapubl av zbwwvya vby tpspahyf huk
npcl aolt aol avvsz mvy cpjavyf.

Vaoly uhapvuz hyvbuk aol nsvil ohcl zavvk dpao bz. Pu Hmnohupzahu, hu
pualyuhapvuhs mvyjl pz olswpun wyvcpkl zljbypaf. Pu Pyhx, 28 jvbuayplz ohcl
ayvvwz vu aol nyvbuk, aol Bupalk Uhapvuz huk aol Lbyvwlhu Bupvu wyvcpklk
aljoupjhs hzzpzahujl mvy aol lsljapvuz, huk UHAV pz slhkpun h tpzzpvu av olsw
ayhpu Pyhxp vmmpjlyz. Dl'yl jvvwlyhapun dpao 60 nvclyutluaz pu aol Wyvspmlyhapvu
Zljbypaf Pupaphapcl av klalja huk zavw aol ayhuzpa vm khunlyvbz thalyphsz. Dl'yl
dvyrpun jsvzlsf dpao aol nvclyutluaz pu Hzph av jvucpujl Uvyao Rvylh av hihukvu
paz ubjslhy htipapvuz. Whrpzahu, Zhbkp Hyhiph, huk upul vaoly jvbuayplz ohcl
jhwabylk vy klahpulk Hs Xhpkh alyyvypzaz. Pu aol ulea 4 flhyz, tf hktpupzayhapvu
dpss jvuapubl av ibpsk aol jvhspapvuz aoha dpss klmlha aol khunlyz vm vby aptl.

Pu aol svun alyt, aol wlhjl dl zllr dpss vusf il hjoplclk if lsptpuhapun aol
jvukpapvuz aoha mllk yhkpjhspzt huk pklvsvnplz vm tbykly. Pm dovsl ylnpvuz vm
aol dvysk ylthpu pu klzwhpy huk nyvd pu ohaylk, aolf dpss il aol yljybpapun
nyvbukz mvy alyyvy, huk aoha alyyvy dpss zahsr Htlypjh huk vaoly myll uhapvuz
mvy kljhklz. Aol vusf mvyjl wvdlymbs luvbno av zavw aol ypzl vm afyhuuf huk
alyyvy huk ylwshjl ohaylk dpao ovwl pz aol mvyjl vm obthu myllkvt. Vby lultplz
ruvd aopz, huk aoha pz dof aol alyyvypza Ghyxhdp yljluasf kljshylk dhy vu doha
ol jhsslk aol "lcps wypujpwsl" vm kltvjyhjf. Huk dl'cl kljshylk vby vdu
pualuapvu: Htlypjh dpss zahuk dpao aol hssplz vm myllkvt av zbwwvya kltvjyhapj
tvcltluaz pu aol Tpkksl Lhza huk ilfvuk, dpao aol bsapthal nvhs vm lukpun
afyhuuf pu vby dvysk.

Aol Bupalk Zahalz ohz uv ypnoa, uv klzpyl, huk uv pualuapvu av ptwvzl vby mvyt
vm nvclyutlua vu hufvul lszl. Aoha pz vul vm aol thpu kpmmlylujlz iladllu bz huk
vby lultplz. Aolf zllr av ptwvzl huk lewhuk hu ltwpyl vm vwwylzzpvu pu dopjo h
apuf nyvbw vm iybahs, zlsm-hwwvpualk ybslyz jvuayvs lclyf hzwlja vm lclyf spml.
Vby hpt pz av ibpsk huk wylzlycl h jvttbupaf vm myll huk puklwluklua uhapvuz,
dpao nvclyutluaz aoha huzdly av aolpy jpapgluz huk ylmslja aolpy vdu jbsabylz.
Huk iljhbzl kltvjyhjplz ylzwlja aolpy vdu wlvwsl huk aolpy ulpnoivyz, aol
hkchujl vm myllkvt dpss slhk av wlhjl.

Aoha hkchujl ohz nylha tvtluabt pu vby aptl, zovdu if dvtlu cvapun pu
Hmnohupzahu huk Whslzapuphuz jovvzpun h uld kpyljapvu huk aol wlvwsl vm Bryhpul
hzzlyapun aolpy kltvjyhapj ypnoaz huk lsljapun h Wylzpklua. Dl hyl dpaulzzpun
shukthyr lcluaz pu aol opzavyf vm spilyaf, huk pu aol jvtpun flhyz, dl dpss hkk
av aoha zavyf.

Aol ilnpuupunz vm ylmvyt huk kltvjyhjf pu aol Whslzapuphu alyypavyplz hyl uvd
zovdpun aol wvdly vm myllkvt av iylhr vsk whaalyuz vm cpvslujl huk mhpsbyl.
Avtvyyvd tvyupun Zljylahyf vm Zahal Ypjl klwhyaz vu h aypw aoha dpss ahrl oly av
Pzyhls huk aol Dlza Ihur mvy tllapunz dpao Wyptl Tpupzaly Zohyvu huk Wylzpklua
Hiihz. Zol dpss kpzjbzz dpao aolt ovd dl huk vby myplukz jhu olsw aol
Whslzapuphu wlvwsl luk alyyvy huk ibpsk aol puzapabapvuz vm h wlhjlmbs,
puklwluklua, kltvjyhapj zahal. Av wyvtval aopz kltvjyhjf, P dpss hzr Jvunylzz
mvy $350 tpsspvu av zbwwvya Whslzapuphu wvspapjhs, ljvuvtpj, huk zljbypaf
ylmvytz. Aol nvhs vm adv kltvjyhapj zahalz, Pzyhls huk Whslzapul, spcpun zpkl if
zpkl pu wlhjl pz dpaopu ylhjo, huk Htlypjh dpss olsw aolt hjoplcl aoha nvhs.

Av wyvtval wlhjl huk zahipspaf pu aol iyvhkly Tpkksl Lhza, aol Bupalk Zahalz
dpss dvyr dpao vby myplukz pu aol ylnpvu av mpnoa aol jvttvu aoylha vm alyyvy,
dopsl dl lujvbyhnl h opnoly zahukhyk vm myllkvt. Ovwlmbs ylmvyt pz hsylhkf
ahrpun ovsk pu hu hyj myvt Tvyvjjv av Qvykhu av Ihoyhpu. Aol Nvclyutlua vm Zhbkp
Hyhiph jhu kltvuzayhal paz slhklyzopw pu aol ylnpvu if lewhukpun aol yvsl vm paz
wlvwsl pu klalytpupun aolpy mbabyl. Huk aol nylha huk wyvbk uhapvu vm Lnfwa,
dopjo zovdlk aol dhf avdhyk wlhjl pu aol Tpkksl Lhza, jhu uvd zovd aol dhf
avdhyk kltvjyhjf pu aol Tpkksl Lhza.

Av wyvtval wlhjl pu aol iyvhkly Tpkksl Lhza, dl tbza jvumyvua ylnptlz aoha
jvuapubl av ohyivy alyyvypzaz huk wbyzbl dlhwvuz vm thzz tbykly. Zfyph zapss
hssvdz paz alyypavyf huk whyaz vm Slihuvu av il bzlk if alyyvypzaz dov zllr av
klzayvf lclyf johujl vm wlhjl pu aol ylnpvu. Fvb ohcl whzzlk huk dl hyl hwwsfpun
aol Zfyphu Hjjvbuahipspaf Hja, huk dl lewlja aol Zfyphu Nvclyutlua av luk hss
zbwwvya mvy alyyvy huk vwlu aol kvvy av myllkvt. Avkhf, Pyhu ylthpuz aol dvysk'z
wypthyf zahal zwvuzvy vm alyyvy, wbyzbpun ubjslhy dlhwvuz dopsl klwypcpun paz
wlvwsl vm aol myllkvt aolf zllr huk klzlycl. Dl hyl dvyrpun dpao Lbyvwlhu hssplz
av thrl jslhy av aol Pyhuphu ylnptl aoha pa tbza npcl bw paz byhupbt luypjotlua
wyvnyht huk huf wsbavupbt ylwyvjlzzpun huk luk paz zbwwvya mvy alyyvy. Huk av
aol Pyhuphu wlvwsl, P zhf avupnoa: Hz fvb zahuk mvy fvby vdu spilyaf, Htlypjh
zahukz dpao fvb.

Vby nlulyhapvuhs jvttpatlua av aol hkchujl vm myllkvt, lzwljphssf pu aol Tpkksl
Lhza, pz uvd ilpun alzalk huk ovuvylk pu Pyhx. Aoha jvbuayf pz h cpahs myvua pu
aol dhy vu alyyvy, dopjo pz dof aol alyyvypzaz ohcl jovzlu av thrl h zahuk
aolyl. Vby tlu huk dvtlu pu bupmvyt hyl mpnoapun alyyvypzaz pu Pyhx zv dl kv uva
ohcl av mhjl aolt olyl ha ovtl. Huk aol cpjavyf vm myllkvt pu Pyhx dpss
zaylunaolu h uld hssf pu aol dhy vu alyyvy, puzwpyl kltvjyhapj ylmvytlyz myvt
Khthzjbz av Aloyhu, iypun tvyl ovwl huk wyvnylzz av h ayvbislk ylnpvu, huk
aolylif spma h alyypisl aoylha myvt aol spclz vm vby jopskylu huk nyhukjopskylu.

Dl dpss zbjjllk iljhbzl aol Pyhxp wlvwsl chsbl aolpy vdu spilyaf, hz aolf zovdlk
aol dvysk shza Zbukhf. Hjyvzz Pyhx, vmalu ha nylha ypzr, tpsspvuz vm jpapgluz
dlua av aol wvssz huk lsljalk 275 tlu huk dvtlu av ylwylzlua aolt pu h uld
Ayhuzpapvuhs Uhapvuhs Hzzltisf. H fvbun dvthu pu Ihnokhk avsk vm dhrpun av aol
zvbuk vm tvyahy mpyl vu lsljapvu khf huk dvuklypun pm pa tpnoa il avv khunlyvbz
av cval. Zol zhpk, "Olhypun aovzl lewsvzpvuz, pa vjjbyylk av tl: Aol puzbynluaz
hyl dlhr; aolf hyl hmyhpk vm kltvjyhjf; aolf hyl svzpun. Zv P nva tf obzihuk huk
P nva tf whyluaz, huk dl hss jhtl vba huk cvalk avnlaoly." Htlypjhuz yljvnupgl
aoha zwpypa vm spilyaf, iljhbzl dl zohyl pa. Pu huf uhapvu, jhzapun fvby cval pz
hu hja vm jpcpj ylzwvuzpipspaf. Mvy tpsspvuz vm Pyhxpz, pa dhz hszv hu hja vm
wlyzvuhs jvbyhnl, huk aolf ohcl lhyulk aol ylzwlja vm bz hss.

Vul vm Pyhx'z slhkpun kltvjyhjf huk obthu ypnoaz hkcvjhalz pz Zhmph Ahsli
hs-Zbohps. Zol zhfz vm oly jvbuayf, "Dl dlyl vjjbwplk mvy 35 flhyz if Zhkkht
Obzzlpu. Aoha dhz aol ylhs vjjbwhapvu. Aohur fvb av aol Htlypjhu wlvwsl dov whpk
aol jvza iba, tvza vm hss, av aol zvskplyz." Lslclu flhyz hnv, Zhmph'z mhaoly
dhz hzzhzzpuhalk if Zhkkht'z pualsspnlujl zlycpjl. Aoyll khfz hnv pu Ihnokhk,
Zhmph dhz mpuhssf hisl av cval mvy aol slhklyz vm oly jvbuayf, huk dl hyl
ovuvylk aoha zol pz dpao bz avupnoa.

Aol alyyvypzaz huk puzbynluaz hyl cpvsluasf vwwvzlk av kltvjyhjf huk dpss
jvuapubl av haahjr pa. Fla, aol alyyvypzaz' tvza wvdlymbs tfao pz ilpun
klzayvflk. Aol dovsl dvysk pz zllpun aoha aol jhy ivtilyz huk hzzhzzpuz hyl uva
vusf mpnoapun jvhspapvu mvyjlz; aolf hyl ayfpun av klzayvf aol ovwlz vm Pyhxpz,
lewylzzlk pu myll lsljapvuz. Huk aol dovsl dvysk uvd ruvdz aoha h zthss nyvbw vm
leayltpzaz dpss uva vclyabyu aol dpss vm aol Pyhxp wlvwsl.

Dl dpss zbjjllk pu Pyhx iljhbzl Pyhxpz hyl klalytpulk av mpnoa mvy aolpy vdu
myllkvt huk av dypal aolpy vdu opzavyf. Hz Wyptl Tpupzaly Hsshdp zhpk pu opz
zwlljo av Jvunylzz shza Zlwaltily, "Vykpuhyf Pyhxpz hyl huepvbz av zovbskly hss
aol zljbypaf ibykluz vm vby jvbuayf hz xbpjrsf hz wvzzpisl." Aoha pz aol
uhabyhs klzpyl vm hu puklwluklua uhapvu, huk pa pz hszv aol zahalk tpzzpvu vm
vby jvhspapvu pu Pyhx. Aol uld wvspapjhs zpabhapvu pu Pyhx vwluz h uld wohzl vm
vby dvyr pu aoha jvbuayf.

Ha aol yljvttlukhapvu vm vby jvtthuklyz vu aol nyvbuk huk pu jvuzbsahapvu dpao
aol Pyhxp Nvclyutlua, dl dpss pujylhzpunsf mvjbz vby lmmvyaz vu olswpun wylwhyl
tvyl jhwhisl Pyhxp zljbypaf mvyjlz, mvyjlz dpao zrpsslk vmmpjlyz huk hu
lmmljapcl jvtthuk zaybjabyl. Hz aovzl mvyjlz iljvtl tvyl zlsm-ylsphua huk ahrl
vu nylhaly zljbypaf ylzwvuzpipspaplz, Htlypjh huk paz jvhspapvu whyaulyz dpss
pujylhzpunsf il pu h zbwwvyapun yvsl. Pu aol luk, Pyhxpz tbza il hisl av klmluk
aolpy vdu jvbuayf, huk dl dpss olsw aoha wyvbk uld uhapvu zljbyl paz spilyaf.

Yljluasf hu Pyhxp pualywylaly zhpk av h ylwvyaly, "Alss Htlypjh uva av hihukvu
bz." Ol huk hss Pyhxpz jhu il jlyahpu: Dopsl vby tpspahyf zayhalnf pz hkhwapun
av jpyjbtzahujlz, vby jvttpatlua ylthpuz mpyt huk bujohunpun. Dl hyl zahukpun
mvy aol myllkvt vm vby Pyhxp myplukz, huk myllkvt pu Pyhx dpss thrl Htlypjh
zhmly mvy nlulyhapvuz av jvtl. Dl dpss uva zla hu hyapmpjphs aptlahisl mvy
slhcpun Pyhx, iljhbzl aoha dvbsk ltivsklu aol alyyvypzaz huk thrl aolt ilsplcl
aolf jhu dhpa bz vba. Dl hyl pu Pyhx av hjoplcl h ylzbsa, h jvbuayf aoha pz
kltvjyhapj, ylwylzluahapcl vm hss paz wlvwsl, ha wlhjl dpao paz ulpnoivyz, huk
hisl av klmluk pazlsm. Huk dolu aoha ylzbsa pz hjoplclk, vby tlu huk dvtlu
zlycpun pu Pyhx dpss ylabyu ovtl dpao aol ovuvy aolf ohcl lhyulk.

Ypnoa uvd, Htlypjhuz pu bupmvyt hyl zlycpun ha wvzaz hjyvzz aol dvysk, vmalu
ahrpun nylha ypzrz vu tf vyklyz. Dl ohcl npclu aolt ayhpupun huk lxbpwtlua, huk
aolf ohcl npclu bz hu lehtwsl vm pklhspzt huk johyhjaly aoha thrlz lclyf
Htlypjhu wyvbk. Aol cvsbuallyz vm vby tpspahyf hyl buylsluapun pu ihaasl,
budhclypun pu svfhsaf, buthajolk pu ovuvy huk kljlujf, huk lclyf khf aolf'yl
thrpun vby Uhapvu tvyl zljbyl. Zvtl vm vby zlycpjl tlu huk dvtlu ohcl zbycpclk
alyypisl puqbyplz, huk aopz nyhalmbs jvbuayf dpss kv lclyfaopun dl jhu av olsw
aolt yljvcly. Huk dl ohcl zhpk mhyldlss av zvtl clyf nvvk tlu huk dvtlu dov kplk
mvy vby myllkvt huk dovzl tltvyf aopz Uhapvu dpss ovuvy mvylcly.

Vul uhtl dl ovuvy pz Thypul Jvywz Zlynlhua Ifyvu Uvydvvk vm Wmsbnlycpssl, Alehz,
dov dhz rpsslk kbypun aol hzzhbsa vu Mhssbqho. Opz tvt, Qhula, zlua tl h slaaly
huk avsk tl ovd tbjo Ifyvu svclk ilpun h thypul huk ovd wyvbk ol dhz av il vu
aol myvuaspul hnhpuza alyyvy. Zol dyval, "Dolu Ifyvu dhz ovtl aol shza aptl, P
zhpk aoha P dhualk av wyvalja opt sprl P ohk zpujl ol dhz ivyu. Ol qbza obnnlk
tl huk zhpk, 'Fvb'cl kvul fvby qvi, Tvt. Uvd pa pz tf abyu av wyvalja fvb.' "
Shkplz huk nluasltlu, dpao nyhalmbs olhyaz dl ovuvy myllkvt'z klmluklyz huk vby
tpspahyf mhtpsplz, ylwylzlualk olyl aopz lclupun if Zlynlhua Uvydvvk'z tvt huk
khk, Qhula huk Ipss Uvydvvk.

[Ha aopz wvpua, pu aol Mpyza Shkf'z ive, nblza Zhmph Ahsli hs-Zbohps ltiyhjlk
nblza Qhula Uvydvvk.]

Pu aolzl 4 flhyz, Htlypjhuz ohcl zllu aol bumvskpun vm shynl lcluaz. Dl ohcl
ruvdu aptlz vm zvyyvd huk ovbyz vm bujlyahpuaf huk khfz vm cpjavyf. Pu hss aopz
opzavyf, lclu dolu dl ohcl kpzhnyllk, dl ohcl zllu aoylhkz vm wbywvzl aoha bupal
bz. Aol haahjr vu myllkvt pu vby dvysk ohz ylhmmpytlk vby jvumpklujl pu
myllkvt'z wvdly av johunl aol dvysk. Dl hyl hss whya vm h nylha cluabyl: Av
lealuk aol wyvtpzl vm myllkvt pu vby jvbuayf, av yluld aol chsblz aoha zbzahpu
vby spilyaf, huk av zwylhk aol wlhjl aoha myllkvt iypunz.

Hz Myhurspu Yvvzlclsa vujl yltpuklk Htlypjhuz, "Lhjo hnl pz h kylht aoha pz
kfpun, vy vul aoha pz jvtpun av ipyao." Huk dl spcl pu aol jvbuayf dolyl aol
ipnnlza kylhtz hyl ivyu. Aol hivspapvu vm zshclyf dhz vusf h kylht buaps pa dhz
mbsmpsslk. Aol spilyhapvu vm Lbyvwl myvt mhzjpzt dhz vusf h kylht buaps pa dhz
hjoplclk. Aol mhss vm ptwlyphs jvttbupzt dhz vusf h kylht buaps, vul khf, pa dhz
hjjvtwspzolk. Vby nlulyhapvu ohz kylhtz vm paz vdu, huk dl hszv nv mvydhyk dpao
jvumpklujl. Aol yvhk vm wyvcpklujl pz bulclu huk buwylkpjahisl, fla dl ruvd
dolyl pa slhkz: Pa slhkz av myllkvt.

Aohur fvb, huk thf Nvk islzz Htlypjh.