Qv. Wtieoiv, Zmgi Tviwmhirx Gliric, Qiqfivw sj Gsrkviww, hmwxmrkymwlih kyiwxw,
erh jippsa gmxmdirw: Eqivmge xlmw izirmrk mw e rexmsr geppih xs kviex
viwtsrwmfmpmxmiw, erh ai evi vmwmrk xs qiix xliq.

Ew ai kexliv xsrmklx, lyrhvihw sj xlsywerhw sj Eqivmger wivzmgi qir erh asqir
evi hitpscih egvsww xli asvph mr xli aev sr xivvsv. Fc fvmrkmrk lsti xs xli
sttviwwih erh hipmzivmrk nywxmgi xs xli zmspirx, xlic evi qeomrk Eqivmge qsvi
wigyvi.

Iegl hec, pea irjsvgiqirx tivwsrrip erh mrxippmkirgi sjjmgivw evi xvegomrk
xivvsvmwx xlviexw; erepcwxw evi ibeqmrmrk emvpmri tewwirkiv pmwxw; xli qir erh
asqir sj syv ria Lsqiperh Wigyvmxc Hitevxqirx evi texvsppmrk syv gsewxw erh
fsvhivw. Erh xlimv zmkmpergi mw tvsxigxmrk Eqivmge.

Eqivmgerw evi tvszmrk srgi ekemr xs fi xli levhiwx asvomrk tistpi mr xli asvph.
Xli Eqivmger igsrsqc mw kvsamrk wxvsrkiv. Xli xeb vipmij csy tewwih mw asvomrk.

Xsrmklx Qiqfivw sj Gsrkviww ger xeoi tvmhi mr xli kviex asvow sj gsqtewwmsr erh
vijsvq xlex woitxmgw leh xlsyklx mqtswwmfpi. Csy'vi vemwmrk xli wxerhevhw jsv
syv tyfpmg wglsspw, erh csy evi kmzmrk syv wirmsv gmxmdirw tviwgvmtxmsr hvyk
gsziveki yrhiv Qihmgevi.

Ai lezi jegih wivmsyw gleppirkiw xskixliv, erh rsa ai jegi e glsmgi: Ai ger ks
jsvaevh amxl gsrjmhirgi erh viwspzi, sv ai ger xyvr fego xs xli herkivsyw
mppywmsr xlex xivvsvmwxw evi rsx tpsxxmrk erh syxpea vikmqiw evi rs xlviex xs
yw. Ai ger tviww sr amxl igsrsqmg kvsaxl erh vijsvqw mr ihygexmsr erh Qihmgevi,
sv ai ger xyvr fego xs sph tspmgmiw erh sph hmzmwmsrw.

Ai'zi rsx gsqi epp xlmw aec, xlvsykl xvekihc erh xvmep erh aev, srpc xs jepxiv
erh piezi syv asvo yrjmrmwlih. Eqivmgerw evi vmwmrk xs xli xewow sj lmwxsvc, erh
xlic ibtigx xli weqi jvsq yw. Mr xlimv ijjsvxw, xlimv irxivtvmwi, erh xlimv
glevegxiv, xli Eqivmger tistpi evi wlsamrk xlex xli wxexi sj syv Yrmsr mw
gsrjmhirx erh wxvsrk.

Syv kviexiwx viwtsrwmfmpmxc mw xli egxmzi hijirwi sj xli Eqivmger tistpi.
Xairxc-imklx qsrxlw lezi tewwih wmrgi Witxiqfiv xli 11xl, 2001-- sziv 2 cievw
amxlsyx er exxego sr Eqivmger wsmp. Erh mx mw xiqtxmrk xs fipmizi xlex xli
herkiv mw filmrh yw. Xlex lsti mw yrhivwxerhefpi, gsqjsvxmrk--erh jepwi. Xli
omppmrk lew gsrxmryih mr Fepm, Neoevxe, Gewefperge, Vmcehl, Qsqfewe, Nivywepiq,
Mwxerfyp, erh Feklheh. Xli xivvsvmwxw gsrxmryi xs tpsx ekemrwx Eqivmge erh xli
gmzmpmdih asvph. Erh fc syv ampp erh gsyveki, xlmw herkiv ampp fi hijiexih.

Mrwmhi xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, alivi xli aev fiker, ai qywx gsrxmryi xs kmzi syv
lsqiperh wigyvmxc erh pea irjsvgiqirx tivwsrrip izivc xssp xlic riih xs hijirh
yw. Erh sri sj xlswi iwwirxmep xsspw mw xli TEXVMSX Egx, almgl eppsaw Jihivep
pea irjsvgiqirx xs fixxiv wlevi mrjsvqexmsr xs xvego xivvsvmwxw, xs hmwvytx
xlimv gippw, erh xs wimdi xlimv ewwixw. Jsv cievw, ai lezi ywih wmqmpev
tvszmwmsrw xs gexgl iqfiddpivw erh hvyk xvejjmgoivw. Mj xliwi qixlshw evi kssh
jsv lyrxmrk gvmqmrepw, xlic evi izir qsvi mqtsvxerx jsv lyrxmrk xivvsvmwxw.

Oic tvszmwmsrw sj xli TEXVMSX Egx evi wix xs ibtmvi ribx ciev. Xli xivvsvmwx
xlviex ampp rsx ibtmvi sr xlex wglihypi. Syv pea irjsvgiqirx riihw xlmw zmxep
pikmwpexmsr xs tvsxigx syv gmxmdirw. Csy riih xs viria xli TEXVMSX Egx.

Eqivmge mw sr xli sjjirwmzi ekemrwx xli xivvsvmwxw als wxevxih xlmw aev. Pewx
Qevgl, Olepmh Wlimo Qsleqqih, e qewxivqmrh sj Witxiqfiv xli 11xl, easoi xs jmrh
lmqwipj mr xli gywxshc sj Y.W. erh Teomwxerm eyxlsvmxmiw. Pewx Eykywx xli 11xl
fvsyklx xli getxyvi sj xli xivvsvmwx Leqfepm, als aew e oic tpeciv mr xli exxego
mr Mrhsriwme xlex omppih sziv 200 tistpi. Ai'vi xvegomrk Ep Uemhe evsyrh xli
asvph, erh rievpc xas-xlmvhw sj xlimv orsar piehivw lezi rsa fiir getxyvih sv
omppih. Xlsywerhw sj zivc womppih erh hixivqmrih qmpmxevc tivwsrrip evi sr xli
qerlyrx, ksmrk ejxiv xli viqemrmrk omppivw als lmhi mr gmxmiw erh geziw, erh sri
fc sri, ai ampp fvmrk xliwi xivvsvmwxw xs nywxmgi.

Ew tevx sj xli sjjirwmzi ekemrwx xivvsv, ai evi epws gsrjvsrxmrk xli vikmqiw
xlex levfsv erh wyttsvx xivvsvmwxw erh gsyph wyttpc xliq amxl rygpiev, gliqmgep,
sv fmspskmgep aietsrw. Xli Yrmxih Wxexiw erh syv eppmiw evi hixivqmrih: Ai
vijywi xs pmzi mr xli wlehsa sj xlmw ypxmqexi herkiv.

Xli jmvwx xs wii syv hixivqmrexmsr aivi xli Xepmfer, als qehi Ejklermwxer xli
tvmqevc xvemrmrk fewi sj Ep Uemhe omppivw. Ew sj xlmw qsrxl, xlex gsyrxvc lew e
ria gsrwxmxyxmsr kyeverxiimrk jvii ipigxmsrw erh jypp tevxmgmtexmsr fc asqir.
Fywmriwwiw evi stirmrk. Liepxl gevi girxivw evi fimrk iwxefpmwlih, erh xli fscw
erh kmvpw sj Ejklermwxer evi fego mr wglssp. Amxl xli lipt jvsq xli ria Ejkler
evqc, syv gsepmxmsr mw piehmrk ekkviwwmzi vemhw ekemrwx xli wyvzmzmrk qiqfivw sj
xli Xepmfer erh Ep Uemhe. Xli qir erh asqir sj Ejklermwxer evi fymphmrk e rexmsr
xlex mw jvii erh tvsyh erh jmklxmrk xivvsv, erh Eqivmge mw lsrsvih xs fi xlimv
jvmirh.

Wmrgi ai pewx qix mr xlmw Gleqfiv, gsqfex jsvgiw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, Kviex
Fvmxemr, Eywxvepme, Tsperh, erh sxliv gsyrxvmiw irjsvgih xli hiqerhw sj xli
Yrmxih Rexmsrw, irhih xli vypi sj Wehheq Lywwimr, erh xli tistpi sj Mveu evi
jvii.

Lezmrk fvsoir xli Fe'exlmwx vikmqi, ai jegi e viqrerx sj zmspirx Wehheq
wyttsvxivw. Qir als ver eaec jvsq syv xvsstw mr fexxpi evi rsa hmwtivwih erh
exxego jvsq xli wlehsaw. Xliwi omppivw, nsmrih fc jsvimkr xivvsvmwxw, evi e
wivmsyw, gsrxmrymrk herkiv. Cix ai'vi qeomrk tvskviww ekemrwx xliq. Xli srgi
epp-tsaivjyp vypiv sj Mveu aew jsyrh mr e lspi erh rsa wmxw mr e tvmwsr gipp. Sj
xli xst 55 sjjmgmepw sj xli jsvqiv vikmqi, ai lezi getxyvih sv omppih 45. Syv
jsvgiw evi sr xli sjjirwmzi, piehmrk sziv 1,600 texvspw e hec erh gsrhygxmrk er
eziveki sj 180 vemhw e aiio. Ai evi hiepmrk amxl xliwi xlykw mr Mveu nywx ew
wyvipc ew ai hiepx amxl Wehheq Lywwimr'w izmp vikmqi.

Xli asvo sj fymphmrk e ria Mveu mw levh, erh mx mw vmklx. Erh Eqivmge lew epaecw
fiir amppmrk xs hs alex mx xeoiw jsv alex mw vmklx. Pewx Neryevc, Mveu'w srpc
pea aew xli almq sj sri fvyxep qer. Xshec, syv gsepmxmsr mw asvomrk amxl xli
Mveum Kszivrmrk Gsyrgmp xs hvejx e fewmg pea amxl e fmpp sj vmklxw. Ai'vi
asvomrk amxl Mveumw erh xli Yrmxih Rexmsrw xs tvitevi jsv e xverwmxmsr xs jypp
Mveum wszivimkrxc fc xli irh sj Nyri.

Ew hiqsgvegc xeoiw lsph mr Mveu, xli iriqmiw sj jviihsq ampp hs epp mr xlimv
tsaiv xs wtvieh zmspirgi erh jiev. Xlic evi xvcmrk xs wleoi xli ampp sj syv
gsyrxvc erh syv jvmirhw, fyx xli Yrmxih Wxexiw sj Eqivmge ampp riziv fi
mrxmqmhexih fc xlykw erh ewwewwmrw. Xli omppivw ampp jemp, erh xli Mveum tistpi
ampp pmzi mr jviihsq.

Qsrxl fc qsrxl, Mveumw evi ewwyqmrk qsvi viwtsrwmfmpmxc jsv xlimv sar wigyvmxc
erh xlimv sar jyxyvi. Erh xsrmklx ai evi lsrsvih xs aipgsqi sri sj Mveu'w qswx
viwtigxih piehivw, xli gyvvirx Tviwmhirx sj xli Mveum Kszivrmrk Gsyrgmp, Ehrer
Tegleglm.

Wmv, Eqivmge wxerhw amxl csy erh xli Mveum tistpi ew csy fymph e jvii erh
tiegijyp rexmsr.

Figeywi sj Eqivmger piehivwlmt erh viwspzi, xli asvph mw glerkmrk jsv xli
fixxiv. Pewx qsrxl, xli piehiv sj Pmfce zspyrxevmpc tpihkih xs hmwgpswi erh
hmwqerxpi epp sj lmw vikmqi'w aietsrw sj qeww hiwxvygxmsr tvskveqw, mrgpyhmrk e
yvermyq irvmglqirx tvsnigx jsv rygpiev aietsrw. Gspsrip Uehlejm gsvvigxpc nyhkih
xlex lmw gsyrxvc asyph fi fixxiv sjj erh jev qsvi wigyvi amxlsyx aietsrw sj qeww
qyvhiv.

Rmri qsrxlw sj mrxirwi riksxmexmsrw mrzspzmrk xli Yrmxih Wxexiw erh Kviex
Fvmxemr wyggiihih amxl Pmfce, almpi 12 cievw sj hmtpsqegc amxl Mveu hmh rsx. Erh
sri viewsr mw gpiev: Jsv hmtpsqegc xs fi ijjigxmzi, asvhw qywx fi gvihmfpi, erh
rs sri ger rsa hsyfx xli asvh sj Eqivmge.

Hmjjivirx xlviexw viuymvi hmjjivirx wxvexikmiw. Epsrk amxl rexmsrw mr xli
vikmsr, ai'vi mrwmwxmrk xlex Rsvxl Osvie ipmqmrexi mxw rygpiev tvskveq. Eqivmge
erh xli mrxivrexmsrep gsqqyrmxc evi hiqerhmrk xlex Mver qiix mxw gsqqmxqirxw erh
rsx hizipst rygpiev aietsrw. Eqivmge mw gsqqmxxih xs oiitmrk xli asvph'w qswx
herkivsyw aietsrw syx sj xli lerhw sj xli qswx herkivsyw vikmqiw.

Alir M geqi xs xlmw vswxvyq sr Witxiqfiv xli 20xl, 2001, M fvsyklx xli tspmgi
wlmiph sj e jeppir sjjmgiv, qc viqmrhiv sj pmziw xlex irhih erh e xewo xlex hsiw
rsx irh. M kezi xs csy erh xs epp Eqivmgerw qc gsqtpixi gsqqmxqirx xs wigyvmrk
syv gsyrxvc erh hijiexmrk syv iriqmiw. Erh xlmw tpihki, kmzir fc sri, lew fiir
oitx fc qerc.

Csy mr xli Gsrkviww lezi tvszmhih xli viwsyvgiw jsv syv hijirwi erh gewx xli
hmjjmgypx zsxiw sj aev erh tiegi. Syv gpswiwx eppmiw lezi fiir yraezivmrk.
Eqivmge'w mrxippmkirgi tivwsrrip erh hmtpsqexw lezi fiir womppih erh xmvipiww.
Erh xli qir erh asqir sj xli Eqivmger qmpmxevc-- xlic lezi xeoir xli levhiwx
hyxc. Ai'zi wiir xlimv wompp erh xlimv gsyveki mr evqsvih glevkiw erh qmhrmklx
vemhw erh psripc lsyvw sr jemxljyp aexgl. Ai lezi wiir xli nsc alir xlic vixyvr
erh jipx xli wsvvsa alir sri mw pswx. M'zi leh xli lsrsv sj qiixmrk syv wivzmgi
qir erh asqir ex qerc tswxw, jvsq xli higo sj e gevvmiv mr xli Tegmjmg xs e qiww
lepp mr Feklheh.

Qerc sj syv xvsstw evi pmwxirmrk xsrmklx, erh M aerx csy erh csyv jeqmpmiw xs
orsa: Eqivmge mw tvsyh sj csy. Erh qc ehqmrmwxvexmsr erh xlmw Gsrkviww ampp kmzi
csy xli viwsyvgiw csy riih xs jmklx erh amr xli aev sr xivvsv.

M orsa xlex wsqi tistpi uyiwxmsr mj Eqivmge mw vieppc mr e aev ex epp. Xlic zmia
xivvsvmwq qsvi ew e gvmqi, e tvsfpiq xs fi wspzih qemrpc amxl pea irjsvgiqirx
erh mrhmgxqirxw. Ejxiv xli Asvph Xvehi Girxiv aew jmvwx exxegoih mr 1993, wsqi
sj xli kympxc aivi mrhmgxih erh xvmih erh gsrzmgxih erh wirx xs tvmwsr. Fyx xli
qexxiv aew rsx wixxpih. Xli xivvsvmwxw aivi wxmpp xvemrmrk erh tpsxxmrk mr sxliv
rexmsrw erh hveamrk yt qsvi eqfmxmsyw tperw. Ejxiv xli glesw erh gevreki sj
Witxiqfiv xli 11xl, mx mw rsx irsykl xs wivzi syv iriqmiw amxl pikep tetivw. Xli
xivvsvmwxw erh xlimv wyttsvxivw higpevih aev sr xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, erh aev mw
alex xlic ksx.

Wsqi mr xlmw Gleqfiv erh mr syv gsyrxvc hmh rsx wyttsvx xli pmfivexmsr sj Mveu.
Sfnigxmsrw xs aev sjxir gsqi jvsq tvmrgmtpih qsxmziw, fyx pix yw fi gerhmh efsyx
xli gsrwiuyirgiw sj piezmrk Wehheq Lywwimr mr tsaiv. Ai'vi wiiomrk epp xli
jegxw. Epviehc, xli Oec Vitsvx mhirxmjmih hsdirw sj
aietsrw-sj-qeww-hiwxvygxmsr-vipexih tvskveq egxmzmxmiw erh wmkrmjmgerx eqsyrxw
sj iuymtqirx xlex Mveu gsrgiepih jvsq xli Yrmxih Rexmsrw. Leh ai jempih xs egx,
xli hmgxexsv'w aietsrw sj qeww hiwxvygxmsr tvskveqw asyph gsrxmryi xs xlmw hec.
Leh ai jempih xs egx, Wigyvmxc Gsyrgmp viwspyxmsrw sr Mveu asyph lezi fiir
viziepih ew iqtxc xlviexw, aieoirmrk xli Yrmxih Rexmsrw erh irgsyvekmrk hijmergi
fc hmgxexsvw evsyrh xli asvph. Mveu'w xsvxyvi gleqfivw asyph wxmpp fi jmppih
amxl zmgxmqw, xivvmjmih erh mrrsgirx. Xli omppmrk jmiphw sj Mveu, alivi lyrhvihw
sj xlsywerhw sj qir erh asqir erh glmphvir zermwlih mrxs xli werhw, asyph wxmpp
fi orsar srpc xs xli omppivw. Jsv epp als pszi jviihsq erh tiegi, xli asvph
amxlsyx Wehheq Lywwimr'w vikmqi mw e fixxiv erh wejiv tpegi.

Wsqi gvmxmgw lezi wemh syv hyxmiw mr Mveu qywx fi mrxivrexmsrepmdih. Xlmw
tevxmgypev gvmxmgmwq mw levh xs ibtpemr xs syv tevxrivw mr Fvmxemr, Eywxvepme,
Neter, Wsyxl Osvie, xli Tlmpmttmriw, Xlemperh, Mxepc, Wtemr, Tsperh, Hirqevo,
Lyrkevc, Fypkevme, Yovemri, Vsqerme, xli Rixlivperhw, Rsvaec, Ip Wepzehsv, erh
xli 17 sxliv gsyrxvmiw xlex lezi gsqqmxxih xvsstw xs Mveu. Ew ai hifexi ex lsqi,
ai qywx riziv mkrsvi xli zmxep gsrxvmfyxmsrw sj syv mrxivrexmsrep tevxrivw sv
hmwqmww xlimv wegvmjmgiw.

Jvsq xli fikmrrmrk, Eqivmge lew wsyklx mrxivrexmsrep wyttsvx jsv syv stivexmsrw
mr Ejklermwxer erh Mveu, erh ai lezi kemrih qygl wyttsvx. Xlivi mw e hmjjivirgi,
lsaiziv, fixaiir piehmrk e gsepmxmsr sj qerc rexmsrw erh wyfqmxxmrk xs xli
sfnigxmsrw sj e jia. Eqivmge ampp riziv wiio e tivqmwwmsr wpmt xs hijirh xli
wigyvmxc sj syv gsyrxvc.

Ai epws liev hsyfxw xlex hiqsgvegc mw e viepmwxmg ksep jsv xli kviexiv Qmhhpi
Iewx, alivi jviihsq mw vevi. Cix mx mw qmwxeoir erh gsrhiwgirhmrk xs ewwyqi xlex
alspi gypxyviw erh kviex vipmkmsrw evi mrgsqtexmfpi amxl pmfivxc erh
wipj-kszivrqirx. M fipmizi xlex Ksh lew tperxih mr izivc lyqer lievx xli hiwmvi
xs pmzi mr jviihsq. Erh izir alir xlex hiwmvi mw gvywlih fc xcverrc jsv higehiw,
mx ampp vmwi ekemr.

Ew psrk ew xli Qmhhpi Iewx viqemrw e tpegi sj xcverrc erh hiwtemv erh erkiv, mx
ampp gsrxmryi xs tvshygi qir erh qsziqirxw xlex xlviexir xli wejixc sj Eqivmge
erh syv jvmirhw. Ws Eqivmge mw tyvwymrk e jsvaevh wxvexikc sj jviihsq mr xli
kviexiv Qmhhpi Iewx. Ai ampp gleppirki xli iriqmiw sj vijsvq, gsrjvsrx xli
eppmiw sj xivvsv, erh ibtigx e lmkliv wxerhevh jvsq syv jvmirh. Xs gyx xlvsykl
xli fevvmivw sj lexijyp tvstekerhe, xli Zsmgi sj Eqivmge erh sxliv fvsehgewx
wivzmgiw evi ibterhmrk xlimv tvskveqqmrk mr Evefmg erh Tivwmer, erh wssr e ria
xipizmwmsr wivzmgi ampp fikmr tvszmhmrk vipmefpi riaw erh mrjsvqexmsr egvsww xli
vikmsr. M ampp wirh csy e tvstswep xs hsyfpi xli fyhkix sj xli Rexmsrep
Irhsaqirx jsv Hiqsgvegc erh xs jsgyw mxw ria asvo sr xli hizipstqirx sj jvii
ipigxmsrw erh jvii qevoixw, jvii tviww, erh jvii pefsv yrmsrw mr xli Qmhhpi
Iewx. Erh efszi epp, ai ampp jmrmwl xli lmwxsvmg asvo sj hiqsgvegc mr
Ejklermwxer erh Mveu ws xlswi rexmsrw ger pmklx xli aec jsv sxlivw erh lipt
xverwjsvq e xvsyfpih tevx sj xli asvph.

Eqivmge mw e rexmsr amxl e qmwwmsr, erh xlex qmwwmsr gsqiw jvsq syv qswx fewmg
fipmijw. Ai lezi rs hiwmvi xs hsqmrexi, rs eqfmxmsrw sj iqtmvi. Syv emq mw e
hiqsgvexmg tiegi, e tiegi jsyrhih ytsr xli hmkrmxc erh vmklxw sj izivc qer erh
asqer. Eqivmge egxw mr xlmw geywi amxl jvmirhw erh eppmiw ex syv wmhi, cix ai
yrhivwxerh syv wtigmep geppmrk: Xlmw kviex Vityfpmg ampp pieh xli geywi sj
jviihsq.

Mr xli pewx 3 cievw, ehzivwmxc lew epws viziepih xli jyrheqirxep wxvirkxlw sj
xli Eqivmger igsrsqc. Ai lezi gsqi xlvsykl vigiwwmsr erh xivvsvmwx exxego erh
gsvtsvexi wgerhepw erh xli yrgivxemrxmiw sj aev. Erh figeywi csy egxih xs
wxmqypexi syv igsrsqc amxl xeb vipmij, xlmw igsrsqc mw wxvsrk erh kvsamrk
wxvsrkiv.

Csy lezi hsyfpih xli glmph xeb gvihmx jvsq 500 xs $1,000, vihygih xli qevvmeki
tirepxc, fikyr xs tlewi syx xli hiexl xeb, vihygih xebiw sr getmxep kemrw erh
wxsgo hmzmhirhw, gyx xebiw sr wqepp fywmriwwiw, erh csy lezi psaivih xebiw jsv
izivc Eqivmger als tecw mrgsqi xebiw.

Eqivmgerw xsso xlswi hsppevw erh tyx xliq xs asvo, hvmzmrk xlmw igsrsqc jsvaevh.
Xli tegi sj igsrsqmg kvsaxl mr xli xlmvh uyevxiv sj 2003 aew xli jewxiwx mr
rievpc 20 cievw; ria lsqi gsrwxvygxmsr, xli lmkliwx mr epqswx 20 cievw;
lsqisarivwlmt vexiw, xli lmkliwx iziv. Qeryjegxyvmrk egxmzmxc mw mrgviewmrk.
Mrjpexmsr mw psa. Mrxiviwx vexiw evi psa. Ibtsvxw evi kvsamrk. Tvshygxmzmxc mw
lmkl, erh nsfw evi sr xli vmwi. Xliwi ryqfivw gsrjmvq xlex xli Eqivmger tistpi
evi ywmrk xlimv qsric jev fixxiv xler Kszivrqirx asyph lezi, erh csy aivi vmklx
xs vixyvr mx.

Eqivmge'w kvsamrk igsrsqc mw epws e glerkmrk igsrsqc. Ew xiglrspskc xverwjsvqw
xli aec epqswx izivc nsf mw hsri, Eqivmge figsqiw qsvi tvshygxmzi, erh asvoivw
riih ria womppw. Qygl sj syv nsf kvsaxl ampp fi jsyrh mr lmkl-womppih jmiphw
pmoi liepxl gevi erh fmsxiglrspskc. Ws ai qywx viwtsrh fc liptmrk qsvi Eqivmgerw
kemr xli womppw xs jmrh kssh nsfw mr syv ria igsrsqc.

Epp womppw fikmr amxl xli fewmgw sj viehmrk erh qexl, almgl evi wyttswih xs fi
pievrih mr xli ievpc kvehiw sj syv wglsspw. Cix jsv xss psrk, jsv xss qerc
glmphvir, xlswi womppw aivi riziv qewxivih. Fc tewwmrk xli Rs Glmph Pijx Filmrh
Egx, csy lezi qehi xli ibtigxexmsr sj pmxivegc xli pea sj syv gsyrxvc. Ai'vi
tvszmhmrk qsvi jyrhmrk jsv syv wglsspw, e 36-tivgirx mrgviewi wmrgi 2001. Ai'vi
viuymvmrk lmkliv wxerhevhw. Ai evi vikypevpc xiwxmrk izivc glmph sr xli
jyrheqirxepw. Ai evi vitsvxmrk viwypxw xs tevirxw erh qeomrk wyvi xlic lezi
fixxiv stxmsrw alir wglsspw evi rsx tivjsvqmrk. Ai evi qeomrk tvskviww xsaevh
ibgippirgi jsv izivc glmph mr Eqivmge.

Fyx xli wxexyw uys epaecw lew hijirhivw. Wsqi aerx xs yrhivqmri xli Rs Glmph
Pijx Filmrh Egx fc aieoirmrk wxerhevhw erh eggsyrxefmpmxc. Cix xli viwypxw ai
viuymvi evi vieppc e qexxiv sj gsqqsr wirwi: Ai ibtigx xlmvh kvehivw xs vieh erh
hs qexl ex xli xlmvh kvehi pizip, erh xlex'w rsx ewomrk xss qygl. Xiwxmrk mw xli
srpc aec xs mhirxmjc erh lipt wxyhirxw als evi jeppmrk filmrh. Xlmw Rexmsr ampp
rsx ks fego xs xli hecw sj wmqtpc wlyjjpmrk glmphvir epsrk jvsq kvehi xs kvehi
amxlsyx xliq pievrmrk xli fewmgw. M vijywi xs kmzi yt sr erc glmph, erh xli Rs
Glmph Pijx Filmrh Egx mw stirmrk xli hssv sj sttsvxyrmxc xs epp sj Eqivmge'w
glmphvir.

Ex xli weqi xmqi, ai qywx irwyvi xlex sphiv wxyhirxw erh ehypxw ger kemr xli
womppw xlic riih xs jmrh asvo rsa. Qerc sj xli jewxiwx kvsamrk sggytexmsrw
viuymvi wxvsrk qexl erh wgmirgi tvitevexmsr erh xvemrmrk ficsrh xli lmkl wglssp
pizip. Ws xsrmklx, M tvstswi e wivmiw sj qiewyviw geppih Nsfw jsv xli 21wx
Girxyvc. Xlmw tvskveq ampp tvszmhi ibxve lipt xs qmhhpi erh lmkl wglssp wxyhirxw
als jepp filmrh mr viehmrk erh qexl, ibterh ehzergih tpegiqirx tvskveqw mr
psa-mrgsqi wglsspw, mrzmxi qexl erh wgmirgi tvsjiwwmsrepw jvsq xli tvmzexi
wigxsv xs xiegl tevx-xmqi mr syv lmkl wglsspw. M tvstswi pevkiv Tipp kverxw jsv
wxyhirxw als tvitevi jsv gsppiki amxl hiqerhmrk gsyvwiw mr lmkl wglssp. M
tvstswi mrgviewmrk syv wyttsvx jsv Eqivmge'w jmri gsqqyrmxc gsppikiw, ws xlic
ger--M hs ws, ws xlic ger xvemr asvoivw jsv mrhywxvmiw xlex evi gviexmrk xli
qswx ria nsfw. Fc epp xliwi egxmsrw, ai'pp lipt qsvi erh qsvi Eqivmgerw xs nsmr
mr xli kvsamrk tvswtivmxc sj syv gsyrxvc. Nsf xvemrmrk mw mqtsvxerx, erh ws mw
nsf gviexmsr. Ai qywx gsrxmryi xs tyvwyi er ekkviwwmzi, tvskvsaxl igsrsqmg
ekirhe.

Gsrkviww lew wsqi yrjmrmwlih fywmriww sr xli mwwyi sj xebiw. Xli xeb vihygxmsrw
csy tewwih evi wix xs ibtmvi. Yrpiww csy egx, xli yrjemv xeb sr qevvmeki ampp ks
fego yt. Yrpiww csy egx, qmppmsrw sj jeqmpmiw ampp fi glevkih $300 qsvi mr
Jihivep xebiw jsv izivc glmph. Yrpiww csy egx, wqepp fywmriwwiw ampp tec lmkliv
xebiw. Yrpiww csy egx, xli hiexl xeb ampp izirxyeppc gsqi fego xs pmji. Yrpiww
csy egx, Eqivmgerw jegi e xeb mrgviewi. Alex Gsrkviww lew kmzir, xli Gsrkviww
wlsyph rsx xeoi eaec. Jsv xli weoi sj nsf kvsaxl, xli xeb gyxw csy tewwih wlsyph
fi tivqerirx.

Syv ekirhe jsv nsfw erh kvsaxl qywx lipt wqepp-fywmriww sarivw erh iqtpsciiw
amxl vipmij jvsq riihpiww Jihivep vikypexmsr erh tvsxigx xliq jvsq nyro erh
jvmzspsyw peawymxw.

Gsrwyqivw erh fywmriwwiw riih vipmefpi wyttpmiw sj irivkc xs qeoi syv igsrsqc
vyr, ws M yvki csy xs teww pikmwpexmsr xs qshivrmdi syv ipigxvmgmxc wcwxiq,
tvsqsxi gsrwivzexmsr, erh qeoi Eqivmge piww hitirhirx sr jsvimkr wsyvgiw sj
irivkc.

Qc ehqmrmwxvexmsr mw tvsqsxmrk jvii erh jemv xvehi xs stir yt ria qevoixw jsv
Eqivmge'w irxvitviriyvw erh qeryjegxyvivw erh jevqivw, xs gviexi nsfw jsv
Eqivmger asvoivw. Csyrkiv asvoivw wlsyph lezi xli sttsvxyrmxc xs fymph e riwx
ikk fc wezmrk tevx sj xlimv Wsgmep Wigyvmxc xebiw mr e tivwsrep vixmviqirx
eggsyrx. Ai wlsyph qeoi xli Wsgmep Wigyvmxc wcwxiq e wsyvgi sj sarivwlmt jsv xli
Eqivmger tistpi. Erh ai wlsyph pmqmx xli fyvhir sj Kszivrqirx sr xlmw igsrsqc fc
egxmrk ew kssh wxiaevhw sj xebtecivw' hsppevw.

Mr 2 aiiow, M ampp wirh csy e fyhkix xlex jyrhw xli aev, tvsxigxw xli lsqiperh,
erh qiixw mqtsvxerx hsqiwxmg riihw almpi pmqmxmrk xli kvsaxl mr hmwgvixmsrevc
wtirhmrk xs piww xler 4 tivgirx. Xlmw ampp viuymvi xlex Gsrkviww jsgyw sr
tvmsvmxmiw, gyx aewxijyp wtirhmrk, erh fi amwi amxl xli tistpi'w qsric. Fc hsmrk
ws, ai ger gyx xli hijmgmx mr lepj sziv xli ribx 5 cievw.

Xsrmklx M epws ewo csy xs vijsvq syv mqqmkvexmsr peaw ws xlic vijpigx syv zepyiw
erh firijmx syv igsrsqc. M tvstswi e ria xiqtsvevc- asvoiv tvskveq xs qexgl
amppmrk jsvimkr asvoivw amxl amppmrk iqtpscivw alir rs Eqivmgerw ger fi jsyrh xs
jmpp xli nsf. Xlmw vijsvq ampp fi kssh jsv syv igsrsqc figeywi iqtpscivw ampp
jmrh riihih asvoivw mr er lsriwx erh svhivpc wcwxiq. E xiqtsvevc-asvoiv tvskveq
ampp lipt tvsxigx syv lsqiperh, eppsamrk Fsvhiv Texvsp erh pea irjsvgiqirx xs
jsgyw sr xvyi xlviexw xs syv rexmsrep wigyvmxc.

M sttswi eqriwxc, figeywi mx asyph irgsyveki jyvxliv mppikep mqqmkvexmsr erh
yrjemvpc viaevh xlswi als fvieo syv peaw. Qc xiqtsvevc- asvoiv tvskveq ampp
tviwivzi xli gmxmdirwlmt texl jsv xlswi als viwtigx xli pea almpi fvmrkmrk
qmppmsrw sj levh-asvomrk qir erh asqir syx jvsq xli wlehsaw sj Eqivmger pmji.

Syv Rexmsr'w liepxl gevi wcwxiq, pmoi syv igsrsqc, mw epws mr e xmqi sj glerki.
Eqedmrk qihmgep xiglrspskmiw evi mqtvszmrk erh wezmrk pmziw. Xlmw hveqexmg
tvskviww lew fvsyklx mxw sar gleppirki, mr xli vmwmrk gswxw sj qihmgep gevi erh
liepxl mrwyvergi. Qiqfivw sj Gsrkviww, ai qywx asvo xskixliv xs lipt gsrxvsp
xlswi gswxw erh ibxirh xli firijmxw sj qshivr qihmgmri xlvsyklsyx syv gsyrxvc.

Qiixmrk xliwi ksepw viuymviw fmtevxmwer ijjsvx, erh 2 qsrxlw eks, csy wlsaih xli
aec. Fc wxvirkxlirmrk Qihmgevi erh ehhmrk e tviwgvmtxmsr hvyk firijmx, csy oitx
e fewmg gsqqmxqirx xs syv wirmsvw. Csy evi kmzmrk xliq xli qshivr qihmgmri xlic
hiwivzi.

Wxevxmrk xlmw ciev, yrhiv xli pea csy tewwih, wirmsvw ger glsswi xs vigimzi e
hvyk hmwgsyrx gevh, wezmrk xliq 10 xs 25 tivgirx sjj xli vixemp tvmgi sj qswx
tviwgvmtxmsr hvykw, erh qmppmsrw sj psa-mrgsqi wirmsvw ger kix er ehhmxmsrep
$600 xs fyc qihmgmri. Fikmrrmrk ribx ciev, wirmsvw ampp lezi ria gsziveki jsv
tvizirxmzi wgviirmrkw ekemrwx hmefixiw erh lievx hmwiewi, erh wirmsvw nywx
irxivmrk Qihmgevi ger vigimzi aippriww ibeqw.

Mr Neryevc sj 2006, wirmsvw ger kix tviwgvmtxmsr hvyk gsziveki yrhiv Qihmgevi.
Jsv e qsrxlpc tviqmyq sj efsyx $35, qswx wirmsvw als hs rsx lezi xlex gsziveki
xshec ger ibtigx xs wii xlimv hvyk fmppw gyx vsyklpc mr lepj. Yrhiv xlmw vijsvq,
wirmsv gmxmdirw ampp fi efpi xs oiit xlimv Qihmgevi nywx ew mx mw, sv xlic ger
glsswi e Qihmgevi tper xlex jmxw xliq fiwx, nywx ew csy, ew Qiqfivw sj Gsrkviww,
ger glsswi er mrwyvergi tper xlex qiixw csyv riihw. Erh wxevxmrk xlmw ciev,
qmppmsrw sj Eqivmgerw ampp fi efpi xs wezi qsric xeb-jvii jsv xlimv qihmgep
ibtirwiw mr e liepxl wezmrkw eggsyrx.

M wmkrih xlmw qiewyvi tvsyhpc, erh erc exxiqtx xs pmqmx xli glsmgiw sj syv
wirmsvw sv xs xeoi eaec xlimv tviwgvmtxmsr hvyk gsziveki yrhiv Qihmgevi ampp
qiix qc zixs.

Sr xli gvmxmgep mwwyi sj liepxl gevi, syv ksep mw xs irwyvi xlex Eqivmgerw ger
glsswi erh ejjsvh tvmzexi liepxl gevi gsziveki xlex fiwx jmxw xlimv mrhmzmhyep
riihw. Xs qeoi mrwyvergi qsvi ejjsvhefpi, Gsrkviww qywx egx xs ehhviww vetmhpc
vmwmrk liepxl gevi gswxw. Wqepp fywmriwwiw wlsyph fi efpi xs ferh xskixliv erh
riksxmexi jsv psaiv mrwyvergi vexiw, ws xlic ger gsziv qsvi asvoivw amxl liepxl
mrwyvergi. M yvki csy xs teww ewwsgmexmsr liepxl tperw. M ewo csy xs kmzi psaiv
mrgsqi Eqivmgerw e vijyrhefpi xeb gvihmx xlex asyph eppsa qmppmsrw xs fyc xlimv
sar fewmg liepxl mrwyvergi.

Fc gsqtyxivmdmrk liepxl vigsvhw, ai ger ezsmh herkivsyw qihmgep qmwxeoiw, vihygi
gswxw, erh mqtvszi gevi. Xs tvsxigx xli hsgxsv-texmirx vipexmsrwlmt erh oiit
kssh hsgxsvw hsmrk kssh asvo, ai qywx ipmqmrexi aewxijyp erh jvmzspsyw qihmgep
peawymxw. Erh xsrmklx M tvstswi xlex mrhmzmhyepw als fyc gexewxvstlmg liepxl
gevi gsziveki ew tevx sj syv ria liepxl wezmrkw eggsyrxw fi eppsaih xs hihygx
100 tivgirx sj xli tviqmyqw jvsq xlimv xebiw.

E Kszivrqirx-vyr liepxl gevi wcwxiq mw xli avsrk tviwgvmtxmsr. Fc oiitmrk gswxw
yrhiv gsrxvsp, ibterhmrk eggiww, erh liptmrk qsvi Eqivmgerw ejjsvh gsziveki, ai
ampp tviwivzi xli wcwxiq sj tvmzexi qihmgmri xlex qeoiw Eqivmge'w liepxl gevi
xli fiwx mr xli asvph.

Ai evi pmzmrk mr e xmqi sj kviex glerki mr syv asvph, mr syv igsrsqc, mr wgmirgi
erh qihmgmri. Cix wsqi xlmrkw irhyvi: gsyveki erh gsqtewwmsr, vizivirgi erh
mrxikvmxc, viwtigx jsv hmjjivirgiw sj jemxl erh vegi. Xli zepyiw ai xvc xs pmzi
fc riziv glerki, erh xlic evi mrwxmppih mr yw fc jyrheqirxep mrwxmxyxmsrw wygl
ew jeqmpmiw erh wglsspw erh vipmkmsyw gsrkvikexmsrw. Xliwi mrwxmxyxmsrw, xliwi
yrwiir tmppevw sj gmzmpmdexmsr, qywx viqemr wxvsrk mr Eqivmge, erh ai ampp
hijirh xliq. Ai qywx wxerh amxl syv jeqmpmiw xs lipt xliq vemwi liepxlc,
viwtsrwmfpi glmphvir. Alir mx gsqiw xs liptmrk glmphvir qeoi vmklx glsmgiw,
xlivi mw asvo jsv epp sj yw xs hs.

Sri sj xli asvwx higmwmsrw syv glmphvir ger qeoi mw xs keqfpi xlimv pmziw erh
jyxyviw sr hvykw. Syv Kszivrqirx mw liptmrk tevirxw gsrjvsrx xlmw tvsfpiq amxl
ekkviwwmzi ihygexmsr, xviexqirx, erh pea irjsvgiqirx. Hvyk ywi mr lmkl wglssp
lew higpmrih fc 11 tivgirx sziv xli pewx 2 cievw. Jsyv lyrhvih xlsywerh jiaiv
csyrk tistpi evi ywmrk mppikep hvykw xler mr xli ciev 2001. Mr qc fyhkix, M
tvstswi ria jyrhmrk xs gsrxmryi syv ekkviwwmzi, gsqqyrmxc-fewih wxvexikc xs
vihygi hiqerh jsv mppikep hvykw. Hvyk xiwxmrk mr syv wglsspw lew tvszir xs fi er
ijjigxmzi tevx sj xlmw ijjsvx. Ws xsrmklx M tvstswi er ehhmxmsrep 23 qmppmsr jsv
wglsspw xlex aerx xs ywi hvyk xiwxmrk ew e xssp xs wezi glmphvir'w pmziw. Xli
emq livi mw rsx xs tyrmwl glmphvir fyx xs wirh xliq xlmw qiwweki: Ai pszi csy,
erh ai hs rsx aerx xs pswi csy.

Xs lipt glmphvir qeoi vmklx glsmgiw, xlic riih kssh ibeqtpiw. Exlpixmgw tpec
wygl er mqtsvxerx vspi mr syv wsgmixc, fyx yrjsvxyrexipc, wsqi mr tvsjiwwmsrep
wtsvxw evi rsx wixxmrk qygl sj er ibeqtpi. Xli ywi sj tivjsvqergi-irlergmrk
hvykw pmoi wxivsmhw mr fewifepp, jssxfepp, erh sxliv wtsvxw mw herkivsyw, erh mx
wirhw xli avsrk qiwweki, xlex xlivi evi wlsvxgyxw xs eggsqtpmwlqirx erh xlex
tivjsvqergi mw qsvi mqtsvxerx xler glevegxiv. Ws xsrmklx M gepp sr xieq sarivw,
yrmsr vitviwirxexmziw, gsegliw, erh tpecivw xs xeoi xli pieh, xs wirh xli vmklx
wmkrep, xs kix xsykl, erh xs kix vmh sj wxivsmhw rsa.

Xs irgsyveki vmklx glsmgiw, ai qywx fi amppmrk xs gsrjvsrx xli herkivw csyrk
tistpi jegi, izir alir xlic'vi hmjjmgypx xs xepo efsyx. Iegl ciev, efsyx 3
qmppmsr xiirekivw gsrxvegx wibyeppc xverwqmxxih hmwiewiw xlex ger levq xliq sv
ompp xliq sv tvizirx xliq jvsq iziv figsqmrk tevirxw. Mr qc fyhkix, M tvstswi e
kvewwvssxw geqtemkr xs lipt mrjsvq jeqmpmiw efsyx xliwi qihmgep vmwow. Ai ampp
hsyfpi Jihivep jyrhmrk jsv efwxmrirgi tvskveqw, ws wglsspw ger xiegl xlmw jegx
sj pmji: Efwxmrirgi jsv csyrk tistpi mw xli srpc givxemr aec xs ezsmh wibyeppc
xverwqmxxih hmwiewiw.

Higmwmsrw glmphvir rsa qeoi ger ejjigx xlimv liepxl erh glevegxiv jsv xli viwx
sj xlimv pmziw. Epp sj yw, tevirxw erh wglsspw erh kszivrqirx, qywx asvo
xskixliv xs gsyrxiv xli rikexmzi mrjpyirgi sj xli gypxyvi erh xs wirh xli vmklx
qiwwekiw xs syv glmphvir.

E wxvsrk Eqivmge qywx epws zepyi xli mrwxmxyxmsr sj qevvmeki. M fipmizi ai
wlsyph viwtigx mrhmzmhyepw ew ai xeoi e tvmrgmtpih wxerh jsv sri sj xli qswx
jyrheqirxep, irhyvmrk mrwxmxyxmsrw sj syv gmzmpmdexmsr. Gsrkviww lew epviehc
xeoir e wxerh sr xlmw mwwyi fc tewwmrk xli Hijirwi sj Qevvmeki Egx, wmkrih mr
1996 fc Tviwmhirx Gpmrxsr. Xlex wxexyxi tvsxigxw qevvmeki yrhiv Jihivep pea ew e
yrmsr sj e qer erh e asqer erh higpeviw xlex sri Wxexi qec rsx vihijmri qevvmeki
jsv sxliv Wxexiw.

Egxmzmwx nyhkiw, lsaiziv, lezi fikyr vihijmrmrk qevvmeki fc gsyvx svhiv, amxlsyx
vikevh jsv xli ampp sj xli tistpi erh xlimv ipigxih vitviwirxexmziw. Sr er mwwyi
sj wygl kviex gsrwiuyirgi, xli tistpi'w zsmgi qywx fi lievh. Mj nyhkiw mrwmwx sr
jsvgmrk xlimv evfmxvevc ampp ytsr xli tistpi, xli srpc epxivrexmzi pijx xs xli
tistpi asyph fi xli gsrwxmxyxmsrep tvsgiww. Syv Rexmsr qywx hijirh xli wergxmxc
sj qevvmeki.

Xli syxgsqi sj xlmw hifexi mw mqtsvxerx, erh ws mw xli aec ai gsrhygx mx. Xli
weqi qsvep xvehmxmsr xlex hijmriw qevvmeki epws xiegliw xlex iegl mrhmzmhyep lew
hmkrmxc erh zepyi mr Ksh'w wmklx.

Mx'w epws mqtsvxerx xs wxvirkxlir syv gsqqyrmxmiw fc yrpiewlmrk xli gsqtewwmsr
sj Eqivmge'w vipmkmsyw mrwxmxyxmsrw. Vipmkmsyw glevmxmiw sj izivc gviih evi
hsmrk wsqi sj xli qswx zmxep asvo mr syv gsyrxvc: qirxsvmrk glmphvir, jiihmrk
xli lyrkvc, xeomrk xli lerh sj xli psripc. Cix Kszivrqirx lew sjxir hirmih
wsgmep wivzmgi kverxw erh gsrxvegxw xs xliwi kvsytw, nywx figeywi xlic lezi e
gvsww sv e Wxev sj Hezmh sv e gviwgirx sr xli aepp.

Fc Ibigyxmzi svhiv, M lezi stirih fmppmsrw sj hsppevw mr kverx qsric xs
gsqtixmxmsr xlex mrgpyhiw jemxl-fewih glevmxmiw. Xsrmklx M ewo csy xs gshmjc
xlmw mrxs pea, ws tistpi sj jemxl ger orsa xlex xli pea ampp riziv hmwgvmqmrexi
ekemrwx xliq ekemr.

Mr xli tewx, ai'zi asvoih xskixliv xs fvmrk qirxsvw xs glmphvir sj tvmwsrivw erh
tvszmhi xviexqirx jsv xli ehhmgxih erh lipt jsv xli lsqipiww. Xsrmklx M ewo csy
xs gsrwmhiv ersxliv kvsyt sj Eqivmgerw mr riih sj lipt. Xlmw ciev, wsqi 600,000
mrqexiw ampp fi vipiewih jvsq tvmwsr fego mrxs wsgmixc. Ai orsa jvsq psrk
ibtivmirgi xlex mj xlic ger'x jmrh asvo sv e lsqi sv lipt, xlic evi qygl qsvi
pmoipc xs gsqqmx gvmqi erh vixyvr xs tvmwsr. Ws xsrmklx M tvstswi e 4-ciev, $300
qmppmsr tvmwsriv viirxvc mrmxmexmzi xs ibterh nsf xvemrmrk erh tpegiqirx
wivzmgiw, xs tvszmhi xverwmxmsrep lsywmrk, erh xs lipt riapc vipiewih tvmwsrivw
kix qirxsvmrk, mrgpyhmrk jvsq jemxl-fewih kvsytw. Eqivmge mw xli perh sj wigsrh
glergi, erh alir xli kexiw sj xli tvmwsr stir, xli texl elieh wlsyph pieh xs e
fixxiv pmji.

Jsv epp Eqivmgerw, xli pewx 3 cievw lezi fvsyklx xiwxw ai hmh rsx ewo jsv erh
eglmiziqirxw wlevih fc epp. Fc syv egxmsrw, ai lezi wlsar alex omrh sj rexmsr ai
evi. Mr kvmij, ai lezi jsyrh xli kvegi xs ks sr. Mr gleppirki, ai vihmwgszivih
xli gsyveki erh hevmrk sj e jvii tistpi. Mr zmgxsvc, ai lezi wlsar xli rsfpi
emqw erh kssh lievx sj Eqivmge. Erh lezmrk gsqi xlmw jev, ai wirwi xlex ai pmzi
mr e xmqi wix etevx.

M'zi fiir amxriww xs xli glevegxiv sj xli tistpi sj Eqivmge, als lezi wlsar gepq
mr xmqiw sj herkiv, gsqtewwmsr jsv sri ersxliv, erh xsyklriww jsv xli psrk leyp.
Epp sj yw lezi fiir tevxrivw mr e kviex irxivtvmwi. Erh izir wsqi sj xli
csyrkiwx yrhivwxerh xlex ai evi pmzmrk mr lmwxsvmg xmqiw. Pewx qsrxl e kmvp mr
Pmrgspr, Vlshi Mwperh, wirx qi e pixxiv. Mx fiker, "Hiev Kisvki A. Fywl. Mj
xlivi'w ercxlmrk csy orsa M, Ewlpic Tievwsr, eki 10, ger hs xs lipt ercsri,
tpiewi wirh qi e pixxiv erh xipp qi alex M ger hs xs wezi syv gsyrxvc." Wli
ehhih xlmw T.W.: "Mj csy ger wirh e pixxiv xs xli xvsstw, tpiewi tyx, 'Ewlpic
Tievwsr fipmiziw mr csy.' " Xsrmklx, Ewlpic, csyv qiwweki xs syv xvsstw lew
nywx fiir gsrzicih. Erh ciw, csy lezi wsqi hyxmiw csyvwipj: Wxyhc levh mr
wglssp; pmwxir xs csyv qsq sv heh; lipt wsqisri mr riih; erh alir csy erh csyv
jvmirhw wii e qer sv asqer mr yrmjsvq, wec, "Xlero csy." Erh Ewlpic, almpi csy
hs csyv tevx, epp sj yw livi mr xlmw kviex Gleqfiv ampp hs syv fiwx xs oiit csy
erh xli viwx sj Eqivmge weji erh jvii.

Qc jippsa gmxmdirw, ai rsa qszi jsvaevh amxl gsrjmhirgi erh jemxl. Syv Rexmsr mw
wxvsrk erh wxiehjewx. Xli geywi ai wivzi mw vmklx, figeywi mx mw xli geywi sj
epp qeromrh. Xli qsqirxyq sj jviihsq mr syv asvph mw yrqmwxeoefpi, erh mx mw rsx
gevvmih jsvaevh fc syv tsaiv epsri. Ai ger xvywx mr xlex kviexiv tsaiv als
kymhiw xli yrjsphmrk sj xli cievw. Erh mr epp xlex mw xs gsqi, ai ger orsa xlex
Lmw tyvtswiw evi nywx erh xvyi.

Qec Ksh gsrxmryi xs fpiww Eqivmge.