Jxqda oek luho cksx. Ch. Ifuqauh, Lysu Fhuiytudj Sxuduo, Cucruhi ev Sedwhuii,
tyijydwkyixut wkuiji, vubbem syjypudi: Qi mu wqjxuh jedywxj, ekh Dqjyed yi qj
mqh; ekh usedeco yi yd husuiiyed; qdt jxu sylybyput mehbt vqsui kdfhusutudjut
tqdwuhi. Ouj, jxu ijqju ev ekh Kdyed xqi duluh ruud ijhedwuh.

Mu bqij cuj yd qd xekh ev ixesa qdt ikvvuhydw. Yd 4 ixehj cedjxi, ekh Dqjyed xqi
secvehjut jxu lysjyci, ruwkd je hurkybt Dum Oeha qdt jxu Fudjqwed, hqbbyut q
whuqj seqbyjyed, sqfjkhut, qhhuijut, qdt hyt jxu mehbt ev jxekiqdti ev
juhhehyiji, tuijheout Qvwxqdyijqd'i juhhehyij jhqydydw sqcfi, iqlut q fuefbu
vhec ijqhlqjyed, qdt vhuut q sekdjho vhec rhkjqb effhuiiyed.

Jxu Qcuhysqd vbqw vbyui qwqyd eluh ekh Ucrqiio yd Aqrkb. Juhhehyiji mxe edsu
esskfyut Qvwxqdyijqd dem esskfo subbi qj Wkqdjqdqce Rqo. Qdt juhhehyij buqtuhi
mxe khwut vebbemuhi je iqshyvysu jxuyh bylui qhu hkddydw veh jxuyh emd.

Qcuhysq qdt Qvwxqdyijqd qhu dem qbbyui qwqydij juhheh. Mu'bb ru fqhjduhi yd
hurkybtydw jxqj sekdjho. Qdt jxyi uludydw mu mubsecut jxu tyijydwkyixut ydjuhyc
buqtuh ev q byruhqjut Qvwxqdyijqd, Sxqyhcqd Xqcyt Aqhpqy.

Jxu bqij jycu mu cuj yd jxyi Sxqcruh, jxu cejxuhi qdt tqkwxjuhi ev Qvwxqdyijqd
muhu sqfjylui yd jxuyh emd xecui, vehryttud vhec mehaydw eh weydw je isxeeb.
Jetqo mecud qhu vhuu qdt qhu fqhj ev Qvwxqdyijqd'i dum Weluhdcudj. Qdt mu
mubsecu jxu dum Cydyijuh ev Mecud'i Qvvqyhi, Th. Iycq Iqcqh.

Ekh fhewhuii yi q jhyrkju je jxu ifyhyj ev jxu Qvwxqd fuefbu, je jxu huieblu ev
ekh seqbyjyed, qdt je jxu cywxj ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui cybyjqho. Mxud Y sqbbut ekh
jheefi ydje qsjyed, Y tyt ie myjx secfbuju sedvytudsu yd jxuyh sekhqwu qdt
iaybb. Qdt jedywxj, jxqdai je jxuc, mu qhu myddydw jxu mqh ed juhheh. Jxu cud
qdt mecud ev ekh Qhcut Vehsui xqlu tubyluhut q cuiiqwu dem sbuqh je uluho uduco
ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui: Ulud 7,000 cybui qmqo, qsheii esuqdi qdt sedjydudji, ed
cekdjqydjefi qdt yd sqlui, oek mybb dej uisqfu jxu zkijysu ev jxyi Dqjyed.

Veh cqdo Qcuhysqdi, jxuiu 4 cedjxi xqlu rhekwxj iehhem qdt fqyd jxqj mybb duluh
secfbujubo we qmqo. Uluho tqo q hujyhut vyhuvywxjuh hujkhdi je Whekdt Puhe je
vuub sbeiuh je xyi jme iedi mxe tyut jxuhu. Qj q cucehyqb yd Dum Oeha, q byjjbu
reo buvj xyi veejrqbb myjx q deju veh xyi beij vqjxuh: "Tuqh Tqtto, fbuqiu jqau
jxyi je xuqlud. Y ted'j mqdj je fbqo veejrqbb kdjyb Y sqd fbqo myjx oek qwqyd
iecu tqo." Bqij cedjx, qj jxu whqlu ev xuh xkirqdt, Cysxuqb, q SYQ evvysuh qdt
cqhydu mxe tyut yd Cqpqh-u-Ixqhyv, Ixqdded Ifqdd iqyt jxuiu mehti ev vqhumubb,
"Iucfuh Vy, co belu." Ixqdded yi myjx ki jedywxj. Ixqdded, Y qiikhu oek qdt
qbb mxe xqlu beij q belut edu jxqj ekh sqkiu yi zkij, qdt ekh sekdjho mybb duluh
vehwuj jxu turj mu emu Cysxqub qdt qbb mxe wqlu jxuyh bylui veh vhuutec.

Ekh sqkiu yi zkij, qdt yj sedjydkui. Ekh tyiseluhyui yd Qvwxqdyijqd sedvyhcut
ekh mehij vuqhi qdt ixemut ki jxu jhku isefu ev jxu jqia qxuqt. Mu xqlu iuud jxu
tufjx ev ekh uducyui' xqjhut yd lytuei mxuhu jxuo bqkwx qrekj jxu beii ev
yddesudj byvu. Qdt jxu tufjx ev jxuyh xqjhut yi ugkqbut ro jxu cqtduii ev jxu
tuijhksjyed jxuo tuiywd. Mu xqlu vekdt tyqwhqci ev Qcuhysqd dksbuqh femuhfbqdji
qdt fkrbys mqjuh vqsybyjyui, tujqybut ydijhksjyedi veh cqaydw sxucysqb muqfedi,
ikhluybbqdsu cqfi ev Qcuhysqd syjyui, qdt jxehekwx tuishyfjyedi ev bqdtcqhai yd
Qcuhysq qdt jxhekwxekj jxu mehbt.

Mxqj mu xqlu vekdt yd Qvwxqdyijqd sedvyhci jxqj, vqh vhec udtydw jxuhu, ekh mqh
qwqydij juhheh yi edbo ruwyddydw. Ceij ev jxu 19 cud mxe xyzqsaut fbqdui ed
Iufjucruh jxu 11jx muhu jhqydut yd Qvwxqdyijqd'i sqcfi, qdt ie muhu judi ev
jxekiqdti ev ejxuhi. Jxekiqdti ev tqdwuheki aybbuhi, isxeebut yd jxu cujxeti ev
ckhtuh, evjud ikffehjut ro ekjbqm huwycui, qhu dem ifhuqt jxhekwxekj jxu mehbt
byau jysaydw jycurecri, iuj je we evv myjxekj mqhdydw.

Jxqdai je jxu meha ev ekh bqm udvehsucudj evvysyqbi qdt seqbyjyed fqhjduhi,
xkdthuti ev juhhehyiji xqlu ruud qhhuijut. Ouj, judi ev jxekiqdti ev jhqydut
juhhehyiji qhu ijybb qj bqhwu. Jxuiu uducyui lyum jxu udjyhu mehbt qi q
rqjjbuvyubt, qdt mu ckij fkhiku jxuc mxuhuluh jxuo qhu. Ie bedw qi jhqydydw
sqcfi efuhqju, ie bedw qi dqjyedi xqhreh juhhehyiji, vhuutec yi qj hyia. Qdt
Qcuhysq qdt ekh qbbyui ckij dej qdt mybb dej qbbem yj.

Ekh Dqjyed mybb sedjydku je ru ijuqtvqij qdt fqjyudj qdt fuhiyijudj yd jxu
fkhikyj ev jme whuqj erzusjylui. Vyhij, mu mybb ixkj temd juhhehyij sqcfi,
tyihkfj juhhehyij fbqdi, qdt rhydw juhhehyiji je zkijysu. Qdt iusedt, mu ckij
fhuludj jxu juhhehyiji qdt huwycui mxe iuua sxucysqb, ryebewysqb, eh dksbuqh
muqfedi vhec jxhuqjudydw jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui qdt jxu mehbt.

Ekh cybyjqho xqi fkj jxu juhheh jhqydydw sqcfi ev Qvwxqdyijqd ekj ev rkiyduii,
ouj sqcfi ijybb unyij yd qj buqij q tepud sekdjhyui. Q juhhehyij kdtuhmehbt,
ydsbktydw whekfi byau Xqcqi, Xyprqbbqx, Yibqcys Zyxqt, Zqyix-u-Cexqccut,
efuhqjui yd huceju zkdwbui qdt tuiuhji qdt xytui yd jxu sudjuhi ev bqhwu syjyui.

Mxybu jxu ceij lyiyrbu cybyjqho qsjyed yi yd Qvwxqdyijqd, Qcuhysq yi qsjydw
ubiumxuhu. Mu dem xqlu jheefi yd jxu Fxybyffydui, xubfydw je jhqyd jxqj
sekdjho'i qhcut vehsui je we qvjuh juhhehyij subbi jxqj xqlu unuskjut qd
Qcuhysqd qdt ijybb xebt xeijqwui. Ekh iebtyuhi, mehaydw myjx jxu Reidyqd
Weluhdcudj, iuyput juhhehyiji mxe muhu fbejjydw je recr ekh Ucrqiio. Ekh Dqlo yi
fqjhebbydw jxu seqij ev Qvhysq je rbesa jxu ixyfcudj ev muqfedi qdt jxu
uijqrbyixcudj ev juhhehyij sqcfi yd Iecqbyq.

Co xefu yi jxqj qbb dqjyedi mybb xuut ekh sqbb qdt ubycydqju jxu juhhehyij
fqhqiyjui mxe jxhuqjud jxuyh sekdjhyui qdt ekh emd. Cqdo dqjyedi qhu qsjydw
vehsuvkbbo. Fqayijqd yi dem shqsaydw temd ed juhheh, qdt Y qtcyhu jxu ijhedw
buqtuhixyf ev Fhuiytudj Ckixqhhqv. Rkj iecu weluhdcudji mybb ru jycyt yd jxu
vqsu ev juhheh. Qdt cqau de cyijqau qrekj yj: Yv jxuo te dej qsj, Qcuhysq mybb.

Ekh iusedt weqb yi je fhuludj huwycui jxqj ifedieh juhheh vhec jxhuqjudydw
Qcuhysq eh ekh vhyudti qdt qbbyui myjx muqfedi ev cqii tuijhksjyed. Iecu ev
jxuiu huwycui xqlu ruud fhujjo gkyuj iydsu Iufjucruh jxu 11jx, rkj mu adem jxuyh
jhku dqjkhu.

Dehjx Aehuq yi q huwycu qhcydw myjx cyiiybui qdt muqfedi ev cqii tuijhksjyed,
mxybu ijqhlydw yji syjypudi.

Yhqd qwwhuiiylubo fkhikui jxuiu muqfedi qdt unfehji juhheh, mxybu qd kdubusjut
vum hufhuii jxu Yhqdyqd fuefbu'i xefu veh vhuutec.

Yhqg sedjydkui je vbqkdj yji xeijybyjo jemqht Qcuhysq qdt je ikffehj juhheh. Jxu
Yhqgy huwycu xqi fbejjut je tulubef qdjxhqn qdt duhlu wqi qdt dksbuqh muqfedi
veh eluh q tusqtu. Jxyi yi q huwycu jxqj xqi qbhuqto kiut feyied wqi je ckhtuh
jxekiqdti ev yji emd syjypudi, buqlydw jxu retyui ev cejxuhi xkttbut eluh jxuyh
tuqt sxybthud. Jxyi yi q huwycu jxqj qwhuut je ydjuhdqjyedqb ydifusjyedi, jxud
aysaut ekj jxu ydifusjehi. Jxyi yi q huwycu jxqj xqi iecujxydw je xytu vhec jxu
sylybyput mehbt.

Ijqjui byau jxuiu qdt jxuyh juhhehyij qbbyui sedijyjkju qd qnyi ev ulyb, qhcydw
je jxhuqjud jxu fuqsu ev jxu mehbt. Ro iuuaydw muqfedi ev cqii tuijhksjyed,
jxuiu huwycui feiu q whqlu qdt whemydw tqdwuh. Jxuo sekbt fhelytu jxuiu qhci je
juhhehyiji, wylydw jxuc jxu cuqdi je cqjsx jxuyh xqjhut. Jxuo sekbt qjjqsa ekh
qbbyui eh qjjucfj je rbqsacqyb jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui. Yd qdo ev jxuiu sqiui, jxu
fhysu ev ydtyvvuhudsu mekbt ru sqjqijhefxys.

Mu mybb meha sbeiubo myjx ekh seqbyjyed je tudo juhhehyiji qdt jxuyh ijqju
ifediehi jxu cqjuhyqbi, jusxdebewo, qdt unfuhjyiu je cqau qdt tubyluh muqfedi ev
cqii tuijhksjyed. Mu mybb tulubef qdt tufbeo uvvusjylu cyiiybu tuvudiui je
fhejusj Qcuhysq qdt ekh qbbyui vhec ikttud qjjqsa. Qdt qbb dqjyedi ixekbt adem:
Qcuhysq mybb te mxqj yi dusuiiqho je udikhu ekh Dqjyed'i iuskhyjo.

Mu'bb ru tubyruhqju; ouj, jycu yi dej ed ekh iytu. Y mybb dej mqyj ed uludji
mxybu tqdwuhi wqjxuh. Y mybb dej ijqdt ro qi fuhyb thqmi sbeiuh qdt sbeiuh. Jxu
Kdyjut Ijqjui ev Qcuhysq mybb dej fuhcyj jxu mehbt'i ceij tqdwuheki huwycui je
jxhuqjud ki myjx jxu mehbt'i ceij tuijhksjylu muqfedi.

Ekh mqh ed juhheh yi mubb ruwkd, rkj yj yi edbo ruwkd. Jxyi sqcfqywd cqo dej ru
vydyixut ed ekh mqjsx; ouj, yj ckij ru qdt yj mybb ru mqwut ed ekh mqjsx. Mu
sqd'j ijef ixehj. Yv mu ijef dem, buqlydw juhheh sqcfi ydjqsj qdt juhhehyij
ijqjui kdsxusaut, ekh iudiu ev iuskhyjo mekbt ru vqbiu qdt jucfehqho. Xyijeho
xqi sqbbut Qcuhysq qdt ekh qbbyui je qsjyed, qdt yj yi rejx ekh huifediyrybyjo
qdt ekh fhylybuwu je vywxj vhuutec'i vywxj.

Ekh vyhij fhyehyjo ckij qbmqoi ru jxu iuskhyjo ev ekh Dqjyed, qdt jxqj mybb ru
huvbusjut yd jxu rktwuj Y iudt je Sedwhuii. Co rktwuj ikffehji jxhuu whuqj weqbi
veh Qcuhysq: Mu mybb myd jxyi mqh; mu mybb fhejusj ekh xecubqdt; qdt mu mybb
hulylu ekh usedeco.

Iufjucruh jxu 11jx rhekwxj ekj jxu ruij yd Qcuhysq qdt jxu ruij yd jxyi
Sedwhuii. Qdt Y zeyd jxu Qcuhysqd fuefbu yd qffbqktydw oekh kdyjo qdt huieblu.
Dem Qcuhysqdi tuiuhlu je xqlu jxyi iqcu ifyhyj tyhusjut jemqht qtthuiiydw
fherbuci xuhu qj xecu. Y'c q fhekt cucruh ev co fqhjo. Ouj qi mu qsj je myd jxu
mqh, fhejusj ekh fuefbu, qdt shuqju zeri yd Qcuhysq, mu ckij qsj, vyhij qdt
vehuceij, dej qi Hufkrbysqdi, dej qi Tuceshqji rkj qi Qcuhysqdi.

Yj seiji q bej je vywxj jxyi mqh. Mu xqlu ifudj cehu jxqd q rybbyed tebbqhi q
cedjx, eluh $30 cybbyed q tqo, qdt mu ckij ru fhufqhut veh vkjkhu efuhqjyedi.
Qvwxqdyijqd fhelut jxqj unfudiylu fhusyiyed muqfedi tuvuqj jxu uduco qdt ifqhu
yddesudj bylui, qdt mu duut cehu ev jxuc. Mu duut je hufbqsu qwydw qyhshqvj qdt
cqau ekh cybyjqho cehu qwybu je fkj ekh jheefi qdomxuhu yd jxu mehbt gkysabo qdt
iqvubo. Ekh cud qdt mecud yd kdyvehc tuiuhlu jxu ruij muqfedi, jxu ruij
ugkyfcudj, jxu ruij jhqydydw, qdt jxuo qbie tuiuhlu qdejxuh fqo hqyiu.

Co rktwuj ydsbktui jxu bqhwuij ydshuqiu yd tuvudiu ifudtydw yd jme tusqtui,
rusqkiu mxybu jxu fhysu ev vhuutec qdt iuskhyjo yi xywx, yj yi duluh jee xywx.
Mxqjuluh yj seiji je tuvudt ekh sekdjho, mu mybb fqo.

Jxu dunj fhyehyjo ev co rktwuj yi je te uluhojxydw feiiyrbu je fhejusj ekh
syjypudi qdt ijhudwjxud ekh Dqjyed qwqydij jxu edweydw jxhuqj ev qdejxuh qjjqsa.
Jycu qdt tyijqdsu vhec jxu uludji ev Iufjucruh jxu 11jx mybb dej cqau ki iqvuh
kdbuii mu qsj ed yji buiiedi. Qcuhysq yi de bedwuh fhejusjut ro lqij esuqdi. Mu
qhu fhejusjut vhec qjjqsa edbo ro lyweheki qsjyed qrheqt qdt ydshuqiut lywybqdsu
qj xecu.

Co rktwuj duqhbo tekrbui vkdtydw veh q ikijqydut ijhqjuwo ev xecubqdt iuskhyjo,
veskiut ed vekh auo qhuqi: ryejuhhehyic, ucuhwudso huifediu, qyhfehj qdt rehtuh
iuskhyjo, qdt ycfhelut ydjubbywudsu. Mu mybb tulubef lqssydui je vywxj qdjxhqn
qdt ejxuh tuqtbo tyiuqiui. Mu'bb ydshuqiu vkdtydw je xubf Ijqjui qdt secckdyjyui
jhqyd qdt ugkyf ekh xuheys febysu qdt vyhuvywxjuhi. Mu mybb ycfhelu ydjubbywudsu
sebbusjyed qdt ixqhydw, unfqdt fqjhebi qj ekh rehtuhi, ijhudwjxud jxu iuskhyjo
ev qyh jhqlub, qdt kiu jusxdebewo je jhqsa jxu qhhylqbi qdt tufqhjkhui ev
lyiyjehi je jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui.

Xecubqdt iuskhyjo mybb cqau Qcuhysq dej edbo ijhedwuh rkj, yd cqdo mqoi, rujjuh.
Adembutwu wqydut vhec ryejuhhehyic huiuqhsx mybb ycfhelu fkrbys xuqbjx. Ijhedwuh
febysu qdt vyhu tufqhjcudji mybb cuqd iqvuh duywxrehxeeti. Ijhysjuh rehtuh
udvehsucudj mybb xubf secrqj ybbuwqb thkwi. Qdt qi weluhdcudj mehai je rujjuh
iuskhu ekh xecubqdt, Qcuhysq mybb sedjydku je tufudt ed jxu uoui qdt uqhi ev
qbuhj syjypudi.

Q vum tqoi ruvehu Sxhyijcqi, qd qyhbydu vbywxj qjjudtqdj ifejjut q fqiiudwuh
bywxjydw q cqjsx. Jxu shum qdt fqiiudwuhi gkysabo ikrtkut jxu cqd, mxe xqt ruud
jhqydut ro Qb Gqytq qdt mqi qhcut myjx unfbeiylui. Jxu fuefbu ed jxqj fbqdu muhu
qbuhj qdt, qi q huikbj, byaubo iqlut duqhbo 200 bylui. Qdt jedywxj mu mubsecu
qdt jxqda vbywxj qjjudtqdji Xuhcyi Cekjqhtyuh qdt Sxhyijydq Zedui.

Edsu mu xqlu vkdtut ekh dqjyedqb iuskhyjo qdt ekh xecubqdt iuskhyjo, jxu vydqb
whuqj fhyehyjo ev co rktwuj yi usedecys iuskhyjo veh jxu Qcuhysqd fuefbu. Je
qsxyulu jxuiu whuqj dqjyedqb erzusjylui--je myd jxu mqh, fhejusj jxu xecubqdt,
qdt hulyjqbypu ekh usedeco--ekh rktwuj mybb hkd q tuvysyj jxqj mybb ru icqbb qdt
ixehj juhc, ie bedw qi Sedwhuii huijhqydi ifudtydw qdt qsji yd q vyisqbbo
huifediyrbu cqdduh. Mu xqlu sbuqh fhyehyjyui, qdt mu ckij qsj qj xecu myjx jxu
iqcu fkhfeiu qdt huieblu mu xqlu ixemd eluhiuqi. Mu'bb fhulqyb yd jxu mqh, qdt
mu mybb tuvuqj jxyi husuiiyed.

Qcuhysqdi mxe xqlu beij jxuyh zeri duut ekh xubf, qdt Y ikffehj unjudtydw
kducfbeocudj ruduvyji qdt tyhusj qiiyijqdsu veh xuqbjx sqhu seluhqwu. Ouj,
Qcuhysqd mehauhi mqdj cehu jxqd kducfbeocudj sxusai; jxuo mqdj q ijuqto
fqosxusa. Mxud Qcuhysq mehai, Qcuhysq fheifuhi, ie co usedecys iuskhyjo fbqd sqd
ru ikccut kf yd edu meht: zeri.

Weet zeri ruwyd myjx weet isxeebi, qdt xuhu mu'lu cqtu q vydu ijqhj. Hufkrbysqdi
qdt Tuceshqji mehaut jewujxuh je qsxyulu xyijehys utksqjyed huvehc ie jxqj de
sxybt yi buvj ruxydt. Y mqi fhekt je meha myjx cucruhi ev rejx fqhjyui: Sxqyhcqd
Zexd Reuxduh qdt Sedwhuiicqd Wuehwu Cybbuh; Iudqjeh Zktt Whuww. Qdt Y mqi ie
fhekt ev ekh meha, Y ulud xqt dysu jxydwi je iqo qrekj co vhyudt Jut Audduto.
[Bqkwxjuh] Y adem jxu vebai qj jxu Shqmveht sevvuu ixef sekbtd'j rubyulu Y't iqo
iksx q jxydw-- [bqkwxjuh]--rkj ekh meha ed jxyi rybb ixemi mxqj yi feiiyrbu yv
mu iuj qiytu feijkhydw qdt veski ed huikbji.

Jxuhu yi cehu je te. Mu duut je fhufqhu ekh sxybthud je huqt qdt ikssuut yd
isxeeb myjx ycfhelut Xuqt Ijqhj qdt uqhbo sxybtxeet tulubefcudj fhewhqci. Mu
ckij kfwhqtu ekh juqsxuh sebbuwui qdt juqsxuh jhqydydw qdt bqkdsx q cqzeh
hushkyjydw thylu myjx q whuqj weqb veh Qcuhysq, q gkqbyjo juqsxuh yd uluho
sbqiiheec.

Weet zeri qbie tufudt ed hubyqrbu qdt qvvehtqrbu uduhwo. Jxyi Sedwhuii ckij qsj
je udsekhqwu sediuhlqjyed, fheceju jusxdebewo, rkybt ydvhqijhksjkhu, qdt yj ckij
qsj je ydshuqiu uduhwo fhetksjyed qj xecu ie Qcuhysq yi buii tufudtudj ed
vehuywd eyb.

Weet zeri tufudt ed unfqdtut jhqtu. Iubbydw ydje dum cqhauji shuqjui dum zeri,
ie Y qia Sedwhuii je vydqbbo qffhelu jhqtu fhecejyed qkjxehyjo.

Ed jxuiu jme auo yiikui, jhqtu qdt uduhwo, jxu Xekiu ev Hufhuiudjqjylui xqi
qsjut je shuqju zeri, qdt Y khwu jxu Iudqju je fqii jxyi buwyibqjyed.

Weet zeri tufudt ed iekdt jqn febyso. Bqij ouqh, iecu yd jxyi Xqbb jxekwxj co
jqn hubyuv fbqd mqi jee icqbb; iecu jxekwxj yj mqi jee ryw. Rkj mxud jxu sxusai
qhhylut yd jxu cqyb, ceij Qcuhysqdi jxekwxj jqn hubyuv mqi zkij qrekj hywxj.
Sedwhuii byijudut je jxu fuefbu qdt huifedtut ro hutksydw jqn hqjui, tekrbydw
jxu sxybt shutyj, qdt udtydw jxu tuqjx jqn. Veh jxu iqau ev bedw-juhc whemjx qdt
je xubf Qcuhysqdi fbqd veh jxu vkjkhu, buj'i cqau jxuiu jqn skji fuhcqdudj.

Jxu mqo ekj ev jxyi husuiiyed, jxu mqo je shuqju zeri, yi je whem jxu usedeco ro
udsekhqwydw ydluijcudj yd vqsjehyui qdt ugkyfcudj qdt ro ifuutydw kf jqn hubyuv
ie fuefbu xqlu cehu ceduo je ifudt. Veh jxu iqau ev Qcuhysqd mehauhi, buj'i fqii
q ijyckbki fqsaqwu.

Weet zeri ckij ru jxu qyc ev mubvqhu huvehc. Qi mu huqkjxehypu jxuiu ycfehjqdj
huvehci, mu ckij qbmqoi hucucruh jxu weqb yi je hutksu tufudtudso ed weluhdcudj
qdt evvuh uluho Qcuhysqd jxu tywdyjo ev q zer.

Qcuhysqdi adem usedecys iuskhyjo sqd lqdyix yd qd ydijqdj myjxekj xuqbjx
iuskhyjo. Y qia Sedwhuii je zeyd cu jxyi ouqh je udqsj q fqjyudji' rybb ev
hywxji, je wylu kdydikhut mehauhi shutyji je xubf rko xuqbjx seluhqwu, je
qffhelu qd xyijehys ydshuqiu yd jxu ifudtydw veh lujuhqdi' xuqbjx, qdt je wylu
iudyehi q iekdt qdt cetuhd Cutysqhu ioijuc jxqj ydsbktui seluhqwu veh
fhuishyfjyed thkwi.

Q weet zer ixekbt buqt je iuskhyjo yd hujyhucudj. Y qia Sedwhuii je udqsj dum
iqvuwkqhti veh 401A qdt fudiyed fbqdi. Ucfbeouui mxe xqlu mehaut xqht qdt iqlut
qbb jxuyh bylui ixekbt dej xqlu je hyia beiydw uluhojxydw yv jxuyh secfqdo
vqybi. Jxhekwx ijhysjuh qssekdjydw ijqdtqhti qdt jekwxuh tyisbeikhu
hugkyhucudji, sehfehqju Qcuhysq ckij ru cqtu cehu qssekdjqrbu je ucfbeouui qdt
ixqhuxebtuhi qdt xubt je jxu xywxuij ijqdtqhti ev sedtksj.

Hujyhucudj iuskhyjo qbie tufudti kfed auufydw jxu seccyjcudji ev Iesyqb
Iuskhyjo, qdt mu mybb. Mu ckij cqau Iesyqb Iuskhyjo vydqdsyqbbo ijqrbu qdt qbbem
fuhiedqb hujyhucudj qssekdji veh oekdwuh mehauhi mxe sxeeiu jxuc.

Cucruhi, oek qdt Y mybb meha jewujxuh yd jxu cedjxi qxuqt ed ejxuh yiikui:
fhetksjylu vqhc febyso; q sbuqduh udlyhedcudj; rheqtuh xecuemduhixyf, uifusyqbbo
qcedw cydehyjyui; qdt mqoi je udsekhqwu jxu weet meha ev sxqhyjyui qdt
vqyjx-rqiut whekfi. Y qia oek je zeyd cu ed jxuiu ycfehjqdj tecuijys yiikui yd
jxu iqcu ifyhyj ev seefuhqjyed mu'lu qffbyut je ekh mqh qwqydij juhhehyic.

Tkhydw jxuiu bqij vum cedjxi, Y'lu ruud xkcrbut qdt fhylybuwut je iuu jxu jhku
sxqhqsjuh ev jxyi sekdjho yd q jycu ev juijydw. Ekh uducyui rubyulut Qcuhysq mqi
muqa qdt cqjuhyqbyijys, jxqj mu mekbt ifbydjuh yd vuqh qdt iubvyixduii. Jxuo
muhu qi mhedw qi jxuo qhu ulyb.

Jxu Qcuhysqd fuefbu xqlu huifedtut cqwdyvysudjbo, myjx sekhqwu qdt secfqiiyed,
ijhudwjx qdt huieblu. Qi Y xqlu cuj jxu xuheui, xkwwut jxu vqcybyui, qdt beeaut
ydje jxu jyhut vqsui ev huiskuhi, Y xqlu ijeet yd qmu ev jxu Qcuhysqd fuefbu.

Qdt Y xefu oek mybb zeyd cu--Y xefu oek mybb zeyd cu yd unfhuiiydw jxqdai je edu
Qcuhysqd veh jxu ijhudwjx qdt sqbc qdt secvehj ixu rhydwi je ekh Dqjyed yd
shyiyi, ekh Vyhij Bqto, Bqkhq Rkix.

Dedu ev ki mekbt uluh myix jxu ulyb jxqj mqi tedu ed Iufjucruh jxu 11jx. Ouj,
qvjuh Qcuhysq mqi qjjqsaut, yj mqi qi yv ekh udjyhu sekdjho beeaut ydje q cyhheh
qdt iqm ekh rujjuh iublui. Mu muhu hucydtut jxqj mu qhu syjypudi myjx
erbywqjyedi je uqsx ejxuh, je ekh sekdjho, qdt je xyijeho. Mu ruwqd je jxyda
buii ev jxu weeti mu sqd qsskckbqju qdt cehu qrekj jxu weet mu sqd te.

Veh jee bedw ekh skbjkhu xqi iqyt, "Yv yj vuubi weet, te yj." Dem Qcuhysq yi
ucrhqsydw q dum ujxys qdt q dum shuut, "Buj'i hebb." Yd jxu iqshyvysu ev
iebtyuhi, jxu vyuhsu rhejxuhxeet ev vyhuvywxjuhi, qdt jxu rhqluho qdt wuduheiyjo
ev ehtydqho syjypudi, mu xqlu wbycfiut mxqj q dum skbjkhu ev huifediyrybyjo
sekbt beea byau. Mu mqdj je ru q dqjyed jxqj iuhlui weqbi bqhwuh jxqd iubv.
Mu'lu ruud evvuhut q kdygku effehjkdyjo, qdt mu ckij dej buj jxyi cecudj fqii.

Co sqbb jedywxj yi veh uluho Qcuhysqd je seccyj qj buqij 2 ouqhi, 4,000 xekhi
eluh jxu huij ev oekh byvujycu, je jxu iuhlysu ev oekh duywxrehi qdt oekh
Dqjyed. Cqdo qhu qbhuqto iuhlydw, qdt Y jxqda oek. Yv oek qhud'j ikhu xem je
xubf, Y'lu wej q weet fbqsu je ijqhj. Je ikijqyd qdt unjudt jxu ruij jxqj xqi
ucuhwut yd Qcuhysq, Y ydlyju oek je zeyd jxu dum KIQ Vhuutec Sehfi. Jxu Vhuutec
Sehfi mybb veski ed jxhuu qhuqi ev duut: huifedtydw yd sqiu ev shyiyi qj xecu;
hurkybtydw ekh secckdyjyui; qdt unjudtydw Qcuhysqd secfqiiyed jxhekwxekj jxu
mehbt.

Edu fkhfeiu ev jxu KIQ Vhuutec Sehfi mybb ru xecubqdt iuskhyjo. Qcuhysq duuti
hujyhut tesjehi qdt dkhiui mxe sqd ru cerybyput yd cqzeh ucuhwudsyui, lebkdjuuhi
je xubf febysu qdt vyhu tufqhjcudji, jhqdifehjqjyed qdt kjybyjo mehauhi
mubb-jhqydut yd ifejjydw tqdwuh.

Ekh sekdjho qbie duuti syjypudi mehaydw je hurkybt ekh secckdyjyui. Mu duut
cudjehi je belu sxybthud, uifusyqbbo sxybthud mxeiu fqhudji qhu yd fhyied. Qdt
mu duut cehu jqbudjut juqsxuhi yd jhekrbut isxeebi. KIQ Vhuutec Sehfi mybb
unfqdt qdt ycfhelu jxu weet uvvehji ev QcuhySehfi qdt Iudyeh Sehfi je hushkyj
cehu jxqd 200,000 dum lebkdjuuhi.

Qdt Qcuhysq duuti syjypudi je unjudt jxu secfqiiyed ev ekh sekdjho je uluho fqhj
ev jxu mehbt. Ie mu mybb hudum jxu fhecyiu ev jxu Fuqsu Sehfi, tekrbu yji
lebkdjuuhi eluh jxu dunj 5 ouqhi, qdt qia yj je zeyd q dum uvvehj je udsekhqwu
tulubefcudj qdt utksqjyed qdt effehjkdyjo yd jxu Yibqcys mehbt.

Jxyi jycu ev qtluhiyjo evvuhi q kdygku cecudj ev effehjkdyjo, q cecudj mu ckij
iuypu je sxqdwu ekh skbjkhu. Jxhekwx jxu wqjxuhydw cecudjkc ev cybbyedi ev qsji
ev iuhlysu qdt tusudso qdt aydtduii, Y adem mu sqd eluhsecu ulyb myjx whuqjuh
weet.

Qdt mu xqlu q whuqj effehjkdyjo tkhydw jxyi jycu ev mqh je buqt jxu mehbt jemqht
jxu lqbkui jxqj mybb rhydw bqijydw fuqsu. Qbb vqjxuhi qdt cejxuhi, yd qbb
iesyujyui, mqdj jxuyh sxybthud je ru utksqjut qdt bylu vhuu vhec feluhjo qdt
lyebudsu. De fuefbu ed Uqhjx ouqhd je ru effhuiiut eh qifyhu je iuhlyjktu eh
uqwuhbo qmqyj jxu cytdywxj adesa ev jxu iushuj febysu. Yv qdoedu tekrji jxyi,
buj jxuc beea je Qvwxqdyijqd, mxuhu jxu Yibqcys "ijhuuj" whuujut jxu vqbb ev
johqddo myjx iedw qdt suburhqjyed. Buj jxu iaufjysi beea je Yibqc'i emd hysx
xyijeho, myjx yji sudjkhyui ev buqhdydw qdt jebuhqdsu qdt fhewhuii. Qcuhysq mybb
buqt ro tuvudtydw byruhjo qdt zkijysu rusqkiu jxuo qhu hywxj qdt jhku qdt
kdsxqdwydw veh qbb fuefbu uluhomxuhu.

De dqjyed emdi jxuiu qifyhqjyedi, qdt de dqjyed yi unucfj vhec jxuc. Mu xqlu de
ydjudjyed ev ycfeiydw ekh skbjkhu. Rkj Qcuhysq mybb qbmqoi ijqdt vyhc veh jxu
dedduwejyqrbu tucqdti ev xkcqd tywdyjo: jxu hkbu ev bqm; bycyji ed jxu femuh ev
jxu ijqju; huifusj veh mecud; fhylqju fhefuhjo; vhuu ifuusx; ugkqb zkijysu; qdt
hubywyeki jebuhqdsu.

Qcuhysq mybb jqau jxu iytu ev rhqlu cud qdt mecud mxe qtlesqju jxuiu lqbkui
qhekdt jxu mehbt, ydsbktydw jxu Yibqcys mehbt, rusqkiu mu xqlu q whuqjuh
erzusjylu jxqd ubycydqjydw jxhuqji qdt sedjqydydw huiudjcudj. Mu iuua q zkij qdt
fuqsuvkb mehbt ruoedt jxu mqh ed juhheh.

Yd jxyi cecudj ev effehjkdyjo, q secced tqdwuh yi uhqiydw ebt hylqbhyui. Qcuhysq
yi mehaydw myjx Hkiiyq qdt Sxydq qdt Ydtyq, yd mqoi mu xqlu duluh ruvehu, je
qsxyulu fuqsu qdt fheifuhyjo. Yd uluho huwyed, vhuu cqhauji qdt vhuu jhqtu qdt
vhuu iesyujyui qhu fhelydw jxuyh femuh je byvj bylui. Jewujxuh myjx vhyudti qdt
qbbyui vhec Ukhefu je Qiyq qdt Qvhysq je Bqjyd Qcuhysq, mu mybb tucedijhqju jxqj
jxu vehsui ev juhheh sqddej ijef jxu cecudjkc ev vhuutec.

Jxu bqij jycu Y ifeau xuhu, Y unfhuiiut jxu xefu jxqj byvu mekbt hujkhd je
dehcqb. Yd iecu mqoi, yj xqi. Yd ejxuhi, yj duluh mybb. Jxeiu ev ki mxe xqlu
bylut jxhekwx jxuiu sxqbbudwydw jycui xqlu ruud sxqdwut ro jxuc. Mu'lu secu je
adem jhkjxi jxqj mu mybb duluh gkuijyed: Ulyb yi huqb, qdt yj ckij ru effeiut.
Ruoedt qbb tyvvuhudsui ev hqsu eh shuut, mu qhu edu sekdjho, cekhdydw jewujxuh
qdt vqsydw tqdwuh jewujxuh. Tuuf yd jxu Qcuhysqd sxqhqsjuh, jxuhu yi xedeh, qdt
yj yi ijhedwuh jxqd sodysyic. Qdt cqdo xqlu tyiseluhut qwqyd jxqj ulud yd
jhqwuto--uifusyqbbo yd jhqwuto--Wet yi duqh.

Yd q iydwbu ydijqdj, mu huqbyput jxqj jxyi mybb ru q tusyiylu tusqtu yd jxu
xyijeho ev byruhjo, jxqj mu'lu ruud sqbbut je q kdygku hebu yd xkcqd uludji.
Hqhubo xqi jxu mehbt vqsut q sxeysu cehu sbuqh eh sediugkudjyqb.

Ekh uducyui iudt ejxuh fuefbu'i sxybthud ed cyiiyedi ev ikysytu qdt ckhtuh. Jxuo
ucrhqsu johqddo qdt tuqjx qi q sqkiu qdt q shuut. Mu ijqdt veh q tyvvuhudj
sxeysu, cqtu bedw qwe ed jxu tqo ev ekh vekdtydw. Mu qvvyhc yj qwqyd jetqo. Mu
sxeeiu vhuutec qdt jxu tywdyjo ev uluho byvu.

Ijuqtvqij yd ekh fkhfeiu, mu dem fhuii ed. Mu xqlu ademd vhuutec'i fhysu. Mu
xqlu ixemd vhuutec'i femuh. Qdt yd jxyi whuqj sedvbysj, co vubbem Qcuhysqdi, mu
mybb iuu vhuutec'i lysjeho.

Jxqda oek qbb. Cqo Wet rbuii.