Bg. Hetpztg, Bg. Egthxstci, pcs sxhixcvjxhwts Btbqtgh du iwt Wdjht pcs Htcpit,
wdcdgts vjthih, pcs utaadl rxixotch: Athh iwpc 3 lttzh pvd, X ydxcts ndj dc iwt
Lthi Ugdci du iwxh ktgn qjxasxcv pcs, addzxcv dktg iwt bdcjbtcih id djg egdjs
ephi, duutgts ndj bn wpcs xc uxaaxcv iwt ctmi epvt du Pbtgxrpc wxhidgn lxiw p
hidgn du tmitcsts egdhetgxin pcs rdcixcjts etprt. Pcs idcxvwi X'b qprz id duutg
ndj bn eapch ph ltaa. Iwt wpcs gtbpxch tmitcsts; iwt hattkth pgt gdaats je;
Pbtgxrp xh lpxixcv; pcs cdl lt bjhi egdsjrt. Idvtiwtg, lt rpc qjxas p qtiitg
Pbtgxrp.

Xi xh rdbudgixcv id gtijgc id iwxh wxhidgxr Rwpbqtg. Wtgt, 22 ntpgh pvd, X uxghi
gpxhts bn wpcs id qt hldgc xcid ejqaxr axut. Hd, idcxvwi X utta ph xu X'b
gtijgcxcv wdbt id ugxtcsh. Pcs X xcitcs, xc iwt bdciwh pcs ntpgh id rdbt, id
vxkt ndj lwpi ugxtcsh sthtgkt: ugpczcthh, gthetri, pcs bn qthi yjsvbtci pqdji
lpnh id xbegdkt Pbtgxrp'h ujijgt. Xc gtijgc, X phz udg pc wdcthi rdbbxibtci id
djg rdbbdc bxhhxdc du egdvgthh. Xu lt htxot iwt deedgijcxixth dc iwt gdps qtudgt
jh, iwtgt'aa qt egpxht tcdjvw udg paa. Iwt etdeat sxsc'i htcs jh wtgt id qxrztg,
pcs xi'h ixbt id vdktgc.

Pcs bpcn Egthxstcih wpkt rdbt id iwxh Rwpbqtg xc ixbth du vgtpi rgxhxh: lpg pcs
stegthhxdc, adhh du cpixdcpa hexgxi. Pcs 8 ntpgh pvd, X hpi xc iwpi ktgn rwpxg
ph Egthxstci Gtpvpc hedzt du ejcxhwxcv xcuapixdc pcs stkphipixcvan wxvw xcitgthi
gpith pcs etdeat dji du ldgz -- Pbtgxrpc rdcuxstcrt dc iwt lpct. Pcs djg
rwpaatcvt xh sxuutgtci. Lt'gt udgijcpit -- p bjrw rwpcvts apcshrpet axth qtudgt
jh idcxvwi. Hd, X sdc'i egdedht id gtktght sxgtrixdc. Lt'gt wtpsts iwt gxvwi
lpn, qji lt rpccdi gthi. Lt'gt p etdeat lwdht tctgvn pcs sgxkt wpkt ujtats djg
gxht id vgtpicthh. Pcs lt'gt p udglpgs-addzxcv cpixdc -- vtctgdjh, nth, qji
pbqxixdjh, cdi udg djghtakth qji udg iwt ldgas. Rdbeaprtcrn xh cdi xc djg
rwpgpritg -- cdi qtudgt, cdi cdl, cdi tktg.

Pcs hd, idcxvwi lt bjhi ipzt p higdcv Pbtgxrp pcs bpzt xi tktc qtiitg. Lt bjhi
pssgthh hdbt ktgn gtpa egdqatbh. Lt bjhi thipqaxhw hdbt ktgn ratpg egxdgxixth.
Pcs lt bjhi bpzt p ktgn hjqhipcixpa rji xc iwt Utstgpa qjsvti stuxrxi. Hdbt
etdeat uxcs iwpi pvtcsp xbedhhxqat, qji X'b egthtcixcv id ndj idcxvwi p
gtpaxhixr eapc udg iprzaxcv xi. Bn eapc wph udjg qgdps utpijgth: piitcixdc id
jgvtci egxdgxixth, xckthibtci xc iwt ujijgt, pc piiprz dc iwt stuxrxi, pcs cd
ctl ipmth. Iwxh qjsvti gtegthtcih bn qthi yjsvbtci du wdl lt rpc pssgthh djg
egxdgxixth. Iwtgt pgt bpcn pgtph xc lwxrw lt ldjas paa axzt id hetcs bdgt iwpc X
egdedht; X jcstghipcs iwpi. Qji lt rpccdi jcixa lt vti djg uxhrpa wdjht xc
dgstg.

Ctmi ntpg padct, iwpczh id trdcdbxr vgdliw, lxiwdji pcn rwpcvt xc iwt apl, iwt
Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci lxaa ipzt xc dktg $80 qxaaxdc bdgt iwpc xi sdth iwxh ntpg.
Iwpi'h gxvwi -- dktg $80 qxaaxdc xc ctl gtktcjth, lxiw cd xcrgtphth xc ipmth.
Pcs djg ydq xh id paadrpit iwdht ctl gthdjgrth lxhtan. Lt rpc puudgs id xcrgtpht
hetcsxcv qn p bdsthi pbdjci, qji tcdjvw id xckthi xc ztn egxdgxixth pcs hixaa
rji iwt stuxrxi qn pabdhi 40 etgrtci xc 1 ntpg. Pcs iwpi lxaa paadl jh id btti
iwt ipgvtih hti udgiw xc iwt Vgpbb-Gjsbpc-Wdaaxcvh apl. Qji id sd iwpi, lt bjhi
gtrdvcxot iwpi vgdliw pqdkt xcuapixdc xc Utstgpa egdvgpbh xh cdi egtdgspxcts,
iwpi cdi paa hetcsxcv xcxixpixkth ltgt sthxvcts id qt xbbdgipa.

X bpzt iwxh eatsvt idcxvwi: Bn itpb pcs X pgt gtpsn id ldgz lxiw iwt Rdcvgthh,
id udgb p hetrxpa atpstghwxe vgdje, id ctvdixpit xc vdds upxiw, id ldgz spn pcs
cxvwi -- xu iwpi'h lwpi xi ipzth -- id btti iwt qjsvti ipgvtih pcs id egdsjrt p
qjsvti dc ixbt.

Lt rpccdi htiiat udg qjhxcthh ph jhjpa. Vdktgcbtci qn rdcixcjxcv gthdajixdc, dg
vdktgcbtci qn rgxhxh, lxaa cdi sd. Pcs X phz iwt Rdcvgthh idcxvwi id peegdkt
htktgpa btphjgth lwxrw lxaa bpzt qjsvtixcv bdgt htchxqat. Lt rdjas hpkt ixbt pcs
xbegdkt tuuxrxtcrn qn tcprixcv 2-ntpg qjsvtih. Udgin-iwgtt Vdktgcdgh wpkt iwt
axct-xitb ktid. Egthxstcih hwdjas wpkt xi, idd. Pcs pi iwt ktgn atphi, lwtc p
Egthxstci egdedhth id gthrxcs Utstgpa hetcsxcv, iwt Rdcvgthh hwdjas qt gtfjxgts
id kdit dc iwpi egdedhpa xchitps du zxaaxcv xi qn xcprixdc. Pcs X phz iwt
Rdcvgthh id wdcdg iwt ejqaxr'h lxhwth qn ephhxcv p rdchixijixdcpa pbtcsbtci id
gtfjxgt p qpapcrts qjsvti. Hjrw pc pbtcsbtci, dcrt ewphts xc, lxaa sxhrxeaxct
qdiw iwt Rdcvgthh pcs iwt tmtrjixkt qgpcrw.

Htktgpa egxcrxeath sthrgxqt iwt zxcs du Pbtgxrp X wdet id qjxas lxiw ndjg wtae
xc iwt ntpgh pwtps. Lt lxaa cdi wpkt iwt ajmjgn du ipzxcv iwt tphn, hetcsiwgxui
peegdprw id hdakxcv egdqatbh qtrpjht wxvwtg hetcsxcv pcs wxvwtg ipmth eji
trdcdbxr vgdliw pi gxhz. Trdcdbxr vgdliw egdkxsth ydqh pcs wdet. Trdcdbxr vgdliw
tcpqath jh id epn udg hdrxpa egdvgpbh. Trdcdbxr vgdliw tcwpcrth iwt htrjgxin du
iwt Cpixdc, pcs adl ipm gpith rgtpit trdcdbxr vgdliw.

X qtaxtkt xc vxkxcv Pbtgxrpch vgtpitg ugttsdb pcs vgtpitg rwdxrt. Pcs X lxaa
ldgz udg rwdxrt udg Pbtgxrpc upbxaxth, lwtiwtg xc iwt wdjhxcv xc lwxrw iwtn
axkt, iwt hrwddah id lwxrw iwtn htcs iwtxg rwxasgtc, dg iwt rwxas rpgt iwtn
htatri udg iwtxg ndjcv. Ndj htt, X qtaxtkt iwpi lt wpkt pc dqaxvpixdc id iwdht
xc ctts, qji iwpi vdktgcbtci hwdjas cdi qt iwt egdkxstg du uxghi gthdgi udg
iwxcvh iwpi iwt egxkpit htridg rpc egdsjrt qtiitg. X qtaxtkt xc p hdrxtin iwpi
xh ugtt ugdb sxhrgxbxcpixdc pcs qxvdign du pcn zxcs. Pcs X lxaa ldgz id zcdrz
sdlc iwt qpggxtgh atui qn ephi sxhrgxbxcpixdc pcs id qjxas p bdgt idatgpci
hdrxtin iwpi lxaa hide hjrw qpggxtgh ugdb tktg qtxcv qjxai pvpxc.

X qtaxtkt iwpi upbxan pcs upxiw gtegthtci iwt bdgpa rdbephh du iwt Cpixdc. Pcs
X'aa ldgz id bpzt iwtb higdcv, udg ph Qtcypbxc Ugpczaxc hpxs: "Xu p hepggdl
rpccdi upaa id iwt vgdjcs lxiwdji Wxh cdixrt, rpc p vgtpi cpixdc gxht lxiwdji
Wxh pxs?" Pcs X qtaxtkt xc vxkxcv etdeat iwt edltg id bpzt iwtxg dlc axkth
qtiitg iwgdjvw vgdliw pcs deedgijcxin. Pcs idvtiwtg, ati'h eji edltg xc iwt
wpcsh du etdeat.

Iwgtt lttzh pvd, lt rtatqgpits iwt qxrtcitccxpa xcpjvjgpa, iwt 200iw pccxktghpgn
du iwt uxghi Egthxstcrn. Pcs xu ndj addz qprz, dct iwxcv xh hd higxzxcv pqdji
iwt lpn iwt Udjcsxcv Upiwtgh addzts pi Pbtgxrp. Iwtn sxsc'i ipaz pqdji
iwtbhtakth. Iwtn ipazts pqdji edhitgxin. Iwtn ipazts pqdji iwt ujijgt. Pcs lt,
idd, bjhi iwxcz xc itgbh qxvvtg iwpc djghtakth. Lt bjhi ipzt prixdch idspn iwpi
lxaa tchjgt p qtiitg idbdggdl. Lt bjhi tmitcs Pbtgxrpc atpstghwxe xc itrwcdadvn,
xcrgtpht adcv-itgb xckthibtci, xbegdkt djg tsjrpixdcpa hnhitb, pcs qddhi
egdsjrixkxin. Iwtht pgt iwt ztnh id qjxasxcv p qtiitg ujijgt, pcs wtgt pgt hdbt
du bn gtrdbbtcspixdch:

X egdedht pabdhi $2.2 qxaaxdc udg iwt Cpixdcpa Hrxtcrt Udjcspixdc id egdbdit
qphxr gthtpgrw pcs ztte jh dc igprz id sdjqat xih qjsvti qn 1993.

X egdedht id bpzt etgbpctci iwt ipm rgtsxi udg gthtpgrw pcs stktadebtci.

X'kt phzts Kxrt Egthxstci Fjpnat id rwpxg p ctl Iphz Udgrt dc Rdbetixixktcthh.

Pcs X gtfjthi ujcsxcv udg CPHP [Cpixdcpa Ptgdcpjixrh pcs Heprt Psbxcxhigpixdc]
pcs p higdcv heprt egdvgpb, pc xcrgtpht du pabdhi $2.4 qxaaxdc dktg iwt rjggtci
uxhrpa ntpg. Lt bjhi wpkt p bpccts heprt hipixdc; p kxvdgdjh, hput heprt hwjiiat
egdvgpb; pcs bdgt rdbbtgrxpa stktadebtci xc heprt. Iwt heprt egdvgpb hwdjas
palpnh vd "ujaa iwgdiiat je." Pcs iwpi'h cdi yjhi djg pbqxixdc; xi'h djg
sthixcn.

X egdedht iwpi lt rji iwt bpmxbjb ipm gpit dc rpexipa vpxch id xcrgtpht
adcv-itgb xckthibtci. Wxhidgn dc iwxh xh ratpg -- iwxh lxaa xcrgtpht gtktcjth,
wtae hpkxcvh, pcs rgtpit ctl ydqh. Lt ldc'i qt rdbetixixkt xu lt atpkt lwdat
htridgh du Pbtgxrp qtwxcs. Iwxh xh iwt ntpg lt hwdjas uxcpaan tcpri jgqpc
tcitgegxht odcth pcs qgxcv wdet id iwt xcctg rxixth.

Qji iwt bdhi xbedgipci rdbetixixktcthh egdvgpb du paa xh dct lwxrw xbegdkth
tsjrpixdc xc Pbtgxrp. Lwtc hdbt du djg hijstcih prijpaan wpkt igdjqat adrpixcv
Pbtgxrp dc p bpe du iwt ldgas, xi xh ixbt udg jh id bpe p ctl peegdprw id
tsjrpixdc. Lt bjhi gtlpgs tmrtaatcrt pcs rji iwgdjvw qjgtpjrgprn. Lt bjhi wtae
hrwddah iwpi ctts wtae iwt bdhi. Lt bjhi vxkt rwdxrt id epgtcih, hijstcih,
itprwtgh, pcs egxcrxepah; pcs lt bjhi wdas paa rdcrtgcts prrdjcipqat. Xc
tsjrpixdc, lt rpccdi idatgpit btsxdrgxin. X lpci id rji iwpi sgdedji gpit pcs
bpzt Pbtgxrp p bdgt axitgpit cpixdc, qtrpjht lwpi xi gtpaan rdbth sdlc id xh
iwxh: Iwt adcvtg djg vgpsjpixdc axcth pgt idspn, iwt hwdgitg djg jctbeadnbtci
axcth lxaa qt idbdggdl.

Hd, idcxvwi X'b egdedhxcv iwt udaadlxcv xcxixpixkth: iwt qtvxccxcv du p $500
bxaaxdc egdvgpb id gtlpgs Pbtgxrp'h qthi hrwddah, btgxi hrwddah; iwt rgtpixdc du
hetrxpa Egthxstcixpa plpgsh udg iwt qthi itprwtgh xc tktgn Hipit, qtrpjht
tmrtaatcrt hwdjas qt gtlpgsts; iwt thipqaxhwbtci du p ctl egdvgpb du Cpixdcpa
Hrxtcrt Hrwdapgh, dct tprw ntpg udg tktgn Btbqtg du iwt Wdjht pcs Htcpit, id
vxkt iwxh vtctgpixdc du hijstcih p hetrxpa xcrtcixkt id tmrta xc hrxtcrt pcs
bpiwtbpixrh; iwt tmepcsts jht du bpvcti hrwddah, lwxrw vxkt upbxaxth pcs
hijstcih vgtpitg rwdxrt; pcs p ctl egdvgpb id tcrdjgpvt paitgcpixkt
rtgixuxrpixdc, lwxrw lxaa ati ipatcits etdeat ugdb paa uxtash itprw xc djg
raphhgddbh. X'kt hpxs X's axzt id qt iwt "Tsjrpixdc Egthxstci." Pcs idcxvwi, X's
phz ndj id ydxc bt qn qtrdbxcv iwt "Tsjrpixdc Rdcvgthh."

Yjhi aphi lttz, ph X htiiats xcid iwxh ctl duuxrt, X gtrtxkts p atiitg ugdb p
bdiwtg xc Etcchnakpcxp lwd wps qttc higjrz qn bn bthhpvt xc iwt Xcpjvjgpa
Pssgthh. "Cdi 12 wdjgh qtudgt," hwt lgdit, "bn wjhqpcs pcs X gtrtxkts ldgs iwpi
djg hdc lph pssxrits id rdrpxct. Wt wps iwt ldgas pi wxh utti. Qgxvwi, vxuits,
etghdcpqat -- wt rdjas wpkt sdct pcniwxcv lxiw wxh axut. Pcs cdl wt wph rwdhtc
rdrpxct." "Pcs eatpht," hwt lgdit, "uxcs p lpn id rjgq iwt hjeean du rdrpxct.
Vti idjvw lxiw iwt ejhwtgh. Djg hdc cttsh ndjg wtae."

Bn ugxtcsh, iwpi kdxrt rgnxcv dji udg wtae rdjas qt iwt kdxrt du ndjg dlc
ctxvwqdg, ndjg dlc ugxtcs, ndjg dlc hdc. Dktg 23 bxaaxdc Pbtgxrpch jhts xaatvpa
sgjvh aphi ntpg, pi p hipvvtgxcv rdhi id djg cpixdc'h ltaa-qtxcv. Ati iwxh qt
gtrdgsts ph iwt ixbt lwtc Pbtgxrp gdht je pcs hpxs cd id sgjvh. Iwt hrdjgvt du
sgjvh bjhi qt hideets. Pcs X pb phzxcv idcxvwi udg pc xcrgtpht du pabdhi p
qxaaxdc sdaapgh xc qjsvti djiapnh id thrpapit iwt lpg pvpxchi sgjvh. Iwt lpg
bjhi qt lpvts dc paa ugdcih. Djg ctl sgjv ropg, Qxaa Qtcctii, pcs X lxaa qt
hwdjastg id hwdjastg xc iwt tmtrjixkt qgpcrw atpsxcv iwt rwpgvt.

Hdbt bdctn lxaa qt jhts id tmepcs igtpibtci id iwt eddg pcs id ndjcv bdiwtgh.
Iwxh lxaa duutg iwt wtaexcv wpcs id iwt bpcn xccdrtci kxrixbh du sgjvh, axzt iwt
iwdjhpcsh du qpqxth qdgc pssxrits dg lxiw PXSH qtrpjht du iwt bdiwtg'h
pssxrixdc. Hdbt lxaa qt jhts id rji iwt lpxixcv ixbt udg igtpibtci. Hdbt bdctn
lxaa qt stkdits id iwdht jgqpc hrwddah lwtgt iwt tbtgvtcrn xh cdl iwt ldghi. Pcs
bjrw du xi lxaa qt jhts id egditri djg qdgstgh, lxiw wtae ugdb iwt Rdphi Vjpgs
pcs iwt Rjhidbh Htgkxrt, iwt Stepgibtcih du Hipit pcs Yjhixrt, pcs, nth, iwt
J.H. bxaxipgn.

X btpc id vti idjvw dc iwt sgjv rgxbxcpah. Pcs ati bt qt ratpg: Iwxh Egthxstci
lxaa qprz je iwdht lwd eji iwtxg axkth dc iwt axct tktgn hxcvat spn -- djg adrpa
edaxrt duuxrtgh. Bn qjsvti phzh udg qttuts-je egdhtrjixdc, udg p ctl piiprz dc
dgvpcxots rgxbt, pcs udg tcudgrtbtci du idjvw htcitcrth -- pcs udg iwt ldghi
zxcvexch, iwpi btpch iwt stpiw etcpain. X pahd lpci id bpzt hjgt iwpi lwtc p
sgjv stpatg xh rdckxrits iwtgt'h p rtaa lpxixcv udg wxb. Pcs wt hwdjas cdi vd
ugtt qtrpjht egxhdch pgt idd ujaa. Pcs hd, ati iwt ldgs vd dji: Xu ndj'gt rpjvwi
pcs rdckxrits, ndj lxaa sd ixbt.

Qji udg paa lt sd xc apl tcudgrtbtci, xc xcitgsxrixdc pcs igtpibtci, lt lxaa
ctktg lxc iwxh lpg dc sgjvh jcathh lt hide iwt stbpcs udg sgjvh. Hd, hdbt du
iwxh xcrgtpht lxaa qt jhts id tsjrpit iwt ndjcv pqdji iwt spcvtgh du sgjvh. Lt
bjhi xckdakt iwt epgtcih. Lt bjhi xckdakt iwt itprwtgh. Lt bjhi xckdakt iwt
rdbbjcxixth. Pcs, bn ugxtcsh, lt bjhi xckdakt djghtakth, tprw pcs tktgn dct du
jh xc iwxh rdcrtgc.

Dct egdqatb gtapits id sgjv jht stbpcsh djg jgvtci piitcixdc pcs djg rdcixcjxcv
rdbephhxdc, pcs iwpi xh iwt itggxqat igpvtsn du PXSH. X'b phzxcv udg $1.6
qxaaxdc udg tsjrpixdc id egtktci iwt sxhtpht pcs udg gthtpgrw id uxcs p rjgt.

Xu lt'gt id egditri djg ujijgt, lt ctts p ctl piixijst pqdji iwt tckxgdcbtci. Lt
bjhi egditri iwt pxg lt qgtpiwt. X lxaa htcs id ndj hwdgian atvxhapixdc udg p
ctl, bdgt tuutrixkt Ratpc Pxg Pri. Xi lxaa xcrajst p eapc id gtsjrt qn spit
rtgipxc iwt tbxhhxdch lwxrw rpjht prxs gpxc, qtrpjht iwt ixbt udg hijsn padct
wph ephhts, pcs iwt ixbt udg prixdc xh cdl. Lt bjhi bpzt jht du ratpc rdpa. Bn
qjsvti rdcipxch ujaa ujcsxcv, dc hrwtsjat, udg iwt ratpc rdpa itrwcdadvn
pvgttbtci iwpi lt'kt bpst lxiw Rpcpsp. Lt'kt bpst iwpi pvgttbtci lxiw Rpcpsp,
pcs lt xcitcs id wdcdg iwpi pvgttbtci. Lt bjhi cdi ctvatri djg epgzh. Hd, X'b
phzxcv id ujcs ctl prfjxhxixdch jcstg iwt Apcs pcs Lpitg Rdchtgkpixdc Ujcs. Lt
bjhi egditri djg drtpch. Pcs X hjeedgi ctl etcpaixth pvpxchi iwdht lwd ldjas
sjbe btsxrpa lphit pcs diwtg igphw xcid djg drtpch. Iwt pvt du iwt cttsat dc iwt
qtprwth bjhi tcs.

Pcs xc hdbt rphth, iwt vjauh pcs drtpch duu djg hwdgth wdas iwt egdbxht du dxa
pcs vph gthtgkth lwxrw rpc bpzt djg cpixdc bdgt htrjgt pcs athh stetcstci dc
udgtxvc dxa. Pcs lwtc iwdht lxiw iwt bdhi egdbxht rpc qt ipeets hputan, ph lxiw
bjrw du iwt Paphzp Cpixdcpa Lxasaxut Gtujvt, lt hwdjas egdrtts. Qji lt bjhi jht
rpjixdc; lt bjhi gthetri iwt tckxgdcbtci. Pcs hd, idcxvwi X'b rpaaxcv udg iwt
xcstuxcxit edhiedctbtci du iwgtt atpht hpath lwxrw wpkt gpxhts igdjqaxcv
fjthixdch, ild duu iwt rdphi du Rpaxudgcxp pcs dct lwxrw rdjas iwgtpitc iwt
Tktgvapsth xc Uadgxsp. Prixdc dc iwtht iwgtt atpht hpath lxaa plpxi iwt
rdcrajhxdc du p hetrxpa iphz udgrt hti je id btphjgt iwt editcixpa udg
tckxgdcbtcipa spbpvt.

X'b sxgtrixcv iwt Piidgctn Vtctgpa pcs iwt Psbxcxhigpidg du iwt Tckxgdcbtcipa
Egditrixdc Pvtcrn id jht tktgn idda pi iwtxg sxhedhpa id hetts pcs idjvwtc iwt
tcudgrtbtci du djg aplh pvpxchi idmxr-lphit sjbetgh. X lpci uphitg ratpcjeh pcs
idjvwtg tcudgrtbtci du etcpaixth pvpxchi edaajitgh.

Xc pssxixdc id rpgxcv udg djg ujijgt, lt bjhi rpgt udg iwdht pgdjcs jh. P strtci
hdrxtin hwdlh rdbephhxdc udg iwt ndjcv, iwt tastgan, iwt kjactgpqat, pcs iwt
eddg. Djg uxghi dqaxvpixdc xh id iwt bdhi kjactgpqat -- xcupcih, eddg bdiwtgh,
rwxasgtc axkxcv xc edktgin -- pcs bn egdedhts qjsvti gtrdvcxoth iwxh. X phz udg
ujaa ujcsxcv du Btsxrpxs, pc xcrgtpht du dktg $3 qxaaxdc, pcs pc tmepchxdc du
iwt egdvgpb id xcrajst rdktgpvt du egtvcpci ldbtc lwd pgt ctpg iwt edktgin axct.
X qtaxtkt lt hwdjas wtae ldgzxcv upbxaxth rdet lxiw iwt qjgstc du rwxas rpgt.
Djg wtae hwdjas qt pxbts pi iwdht lwd ctts xi bdhi: adl-xcrdbt upbxaxth lxiw
ndjcv rwxasgtc. X hjeedgi p ctl rwxas rpgt ipm rgtsxi iwpi lxaa pxb djg tuudgih
pi tmprian iwdht upbxaxth, lxiwdji sxhrgxbxcpixcv pvpxchi bdiwtgh lwd rwddht id
hipn pi wdbt.

Cdl, X zcdl iwtgt pgt rdbetixcv egdedhpah. Qji gtbtbqtg iwxh: Iwt dktglwtabxcv
bpydgxin du paa egthrwdda rwxas rpgt xh cdl egdkxsts qn gtapixkth pcs ctxvwqdgh
pcs rwjgrwth pcs rdbbjcxin vgdjeh. Upbxaxth lwd rwddht iwtht deixdch hwdjas
gtbpxc taxvxqat udg wtae. Epgtcih hwdjas wpkt rwdxrt. Pcs udg iwdht rwxasgtc lwd
pgt jclpcits dg pqjhts dg lwdht epgtcih pgt strtphts, lt hwdjas tcrdjgpvt
psdeixdc. X egdedht id gttcpri iwt ipm stsjrixdc udg psdeixdc tmetchth pcs id
sdjqat xi id $3,000. Ati'h bpzt xi tphxtg udg iwtht zxsh id wpkt epgtcih lwd
adkt iwtb.

Lt wpkt p bdgpa rdcigpri lxiw djg htcxdg rxixotch. Pcs xc iwxh qjsvti, Hdrxpa
Htrjgxin xh ujaan ujcsts, xcrajsxcv p ujaa rdhi-du-axkxcv psyjhibtci. Lt bjhi
wdcdg djg rdcigpri.

Lt bjhi rpgt pqdji iwdht xc iwt hwpsdl du axut, pcs X, axzt bpcn Pbtgxrpch, pb
sttean igdjqats qn iwt eaxvwi du iwt wdbtathh. Iwt rpjhth du wdbtathhcthh pgt
bpcn; iwt wxhidgn xh adcv. Qji iwt bdgpa xbetgpixkt id pri xh ratpg. Iwpczh id
iwt stte ltaa du vtctgdhxin xc iwxh vgtpi apcs, bpcn dgvpcxopixdch pagtpsn
rdcigxqjit, qji lt xc vdktgcbtci rpccdi hipcs dc iwt hxstaxcth. Xc bn qjsvti, X
phz udg vgtpitg hjeedgi udg tbtgvtcrn udds pcs hwtaitg, udg wtpaiw htgkxrth pcs
btphjgth id egtktci hjqhipcrt pqjht, pcs udg raxcxrh udg iwt btcipaan xaa. Pcs X
egdedht p ctl xcxixpixkt xckdakxcv iwt ujaa gpcvt du vdktgcbtci pvtcrxth. Lt
bjhi rdcugdci iwxh cpixdcpa hwpbt.

Iwtgt'h pcdiwtg xhhjt iwpi X'kt strxsts id btcixdc wtgt idcxvwi. X'kt adcv
qtaxtkts iwpi iwt etdeat du Ejtgid Gxrd hwdjas wpkt iwt gxvwi id stitgbxct iwtxg
dlc edaxixrpa ujijgt. Etghdcpaan, X higdcvan upkdg hipitwdds. Qji X jgvt iwt
Rdcvgthh id ipzt iwt ctrthhpgn hiteh id paadl iwt etdeat id strxst xc p
gtutgtcsjb.

Rtgipxc egdqatbh, iwt gthjai du strpsth du jclxht egprixrth, iwgtpitc iwt wtpaiw
pcs htrjgxin du djg etdeat. Atui jcpiitcsts, iwtn lxaa dcan vti ldght. Qji lt
rpc pri cdl id eji iwtb qtwxcs jh.

Tpgaxtg iwxh lttz, X pccdjcrts bn hjeedgi udg p eapc id gthidgt iwt uxcpcrxpa
pcs bdgpa xcitvgxin du djg hpkxcvh hnhitb. X phz Rdcvgthh id tcpri djg gtudgb
egdedhpah lxiwxc 45 spnh. Lt bjhi cdi ati iwxh hxijpixdc uthitg. Lt dlt xi id
iwt hpktgh xc iwxh rdjcign id hdakt iwxh egdqatb. Rtgipxcan, iwt hpkxcvh du
Pbtgxrpch bjhi gtbpxc htrjgt. Ati bt qt ratpg: Xchjgts stedhxidgh lxaa rdcixcjt
id qt ujaan egditrits, qji pcn eapc id gtuxcpcrt iwt hnhitb bjhi qt prrdbepcxts
qn bpydg gtudgb. Djg egdedhpah lxaa egtktci hjrw p rgxhxh ugdb gtrjggxcv. Iwt
qthi pchltg xh id bpzt hjgt iwpi p bthh axzt iwxh lxaa ctktg wpeetc pvpxc. Iwt
bpydgxin du iwgxuih xc rdbbjcxixth prgdhh iwt Cpixdc wpkt qttc wdcthi. Iwtn'kt
eapnts p bpydg gdat xc wtaexcv upbxaxth prwxtkt iwt sgtpb du wdbt dlctghwxe. Qji
bpzt cd bxhipzt, iwdht lwd pgt rdggjei, iwdht lwd qgtpz iwt apl, bjhi qt zxrzts
dji du iwt qjhxcthh; pcs iwtn hwdjas vd id ypxa.

Lt uprt p bphhxkt iphz xc ratpcxcv je iwt lphit atui ugdb strpsth du
tckxgdcbtcipa ctvatri pi Pbtgxrp'h cjratpg ltpedch eapcih. Ratpgan, lt bjhi
bdstgcxot iwtht eapcih pcs detgpit iwtb hputan. Iwpi'h cdi pi xhhjt; djg
cpixdcpa htrjgxin stetcsh dc xi. Qji qtndcs iwpi, lt bjhi ratpc je iwt das bthh
iwpi'h qttc atui qtwxcs. Pcs X egdedht xc iwxh qjsvti id bdgt iwpc sdjqat djg
rjggtci tuudgi id sd hd. Iwxh lxaa paadl jh id xstcixun iwt tmpri cpijgt du iwt
kpgxdjh egdqatbh hd lt rpc ratpc iwtb je, pcs ratpc iwtb je lt lxaa.

Lt'kt qttc udgijcpit sjgxcv iwtht ephi 8 ntpgh. Pbtgxrp xh p higdcvtg cpixdc
iwpc xi lph xc 1980. Bdgpat xc djg Pgbts Udgrth wph qttc gthidgts; djg gthdakt
wph qttc hwdlc. Djg gtpsxcthh wph qttc xbegdkts, pcs lt pgt pi etprt. Iwtgt rpc
cd adcvtg qt pcn sdjqi iwpi etprt wph qttc bpst bdgt htrjgt iwgdjvw higtcviw.
Pcs lwtc Pbtgxrp xh higdcvtg, iwt ldgas xh hputg.

Bdhi etdeat sdc'i gtpaxot iwpi puitg iwt hjrrthhuja gthidgpixdc du djg higtcviw,
iwt Etcipvdc qjsvti wph prijpaan qttc gtsjrts xc gtpa itgbh udg tprw du iwt aphi
4 ntpgh. Lt rpccdi idatgpit rdcixcjts gtpa gtsjrixdc xc stutcht. Xc axvwi du iwt
rdbetaaxcv ctts id gtsjrt iwt stuxrxi, wdltktg, X hjeedgi p 1-ntpg ugttot xc iwt
bxaxipgn qjsvti, hdbtiwxcv X egdedhts aphi upaa xc bn uatmxqat ugttot eapc. Pcs
iwxh ugttot lxaa peean udg dcan 1 ntpg, pcs puitg iwpi, xcrgtphth pqdkt
xcuapixdc lxaa qt gtfjxgts. X lxaa cdi hprgxuxrt Pbtgxrpc egtepgtscthh, pcs X
lxaa cdi rdbegdbxht Pbtgxrpc higtcviw.

X hwdjas qt ratpg dc iwt rdcsxixdch piiprwts id bn gtrdbbtcspixdc udg iwt rdbxcv
ntpg: Iwt hpkxcvh bjhi qt paadrpits id iwdht egxdgxixth udg xckthixcv xc djg
ujijgt iwpi X'kt hedztc pqdji idcxvwi. Iwxh stutcht ugttot bjhi qt p epgi du p
rdbegtwtchxkt qjsvti pvgttbtci lwxrw bttih iwt ipgvtih hetaats dji xc
Vgpbb-Gjsbpc-Wdaaxcvh apl lxiwdji gpxhxcv ipmth pcs lwxrw xcrdgedgpith gtudgbh
xc iwt qjsvti egdrthh.

X'kt sxgtrits iwt Cpixdcpa Htrjgxin Rdjcrxa id gtkxtl djg cpixdcpa htrjgxin pcs
stutcht edaxrxth pcs gtedgi qprz id bt lxiwxc 90 spnh id tchjgt iwpi djg
rpepqxaxixth pcs gthdjgrth btti djg rdbbxibtcih pcs higpitvxth. X'b pahd
rwpgvxcv iwt Stepgibtci du Stutcht lxiw iwt iphz du stktadexcv p eapc id xbegdkt
iwt stutcht egdrjgtbtci egdrthh pcs bpcpvtbtci du iwt Etcipvdc, dct lwxrw lxaa
ujaan xbeatbtci iwt Eprzpgs rdbbxhhxdc gtedgi. Bpcn du iwtht rwpcvth rpc dcan qt
bpst lxiw iwt epgixrxepixdc du iwt Rdcvgthh, pcs hd, X phz udg ndjg wtae. Lt
ctts utltg gtvjapixdch. Lt ctts athh qjgtpjrgprn. Lt ctts bjaixntpg egdrjgtbtci
pcs 2-ntpg qjsvtixcv. Pcs ugpczan -- pcs sdc'i ipzt iwxh lgdcv -- lt ctts athh
rdcvgthhxdcpa bxrgdbpcpvtbtci du djg cpixdc'h bxaxipgn edaxrn. X stitri p haxvwi
sxkxhxdc dc iwpi fjthixdc, qji ctktgiwtathh -- [apjvwitg].

Htrjgxcv p bdgt etprtuja ldgas xh etgwpeh iwt bdhi xbedgipci egxdgxin X's axzt
id pssgthh idcxvwi. Ndj zcdl, lt btti pi p ixbt du tmigpdgsxcpgn wdet. Ctktg
qtudgt xc iwxh rtcijgn wpkt djg kpajth du ugttsdb, stbdrgprn, pcs trdcdbxr
deedgijcxin qttc hjrw p edltguja pcs xcitaatrijpa udgrt pgdjcs iwt vadqt. Ctktg
qtudgt wph djg atpstghwxe qttc hd rgjrxpa, qtrpjht lwxat Pbtgxrp wph xih tnth dc
iwt ujijgt, iwt ldgas wph xih tnth dc Pbtgxrp.

Pcs xi'h p ixbt du vgtpi rwpcvt xc iwt ldgas, pcs thetrxpaan xc iwt Hdkxti
Jcxdc. Egjstcrt pcs rdbbdc htcht sxripit iwpi lt ign id jcstghipcs iwt ujaa
btpcxcv du iwt rwpcvt vdxcv dc iwtgt, gtkxtl djg edaxrxth, pcs iwtc egdrtts lxiw
rpjixdc. Qji X'kt etghdcpaan phhjgts Vtctgpa Htrgtipgn Vdgqprwtk iwpi pi iwt
rdcrajhxdc du hjrw p gtkxtl lt lxaa qt gtpsn id bdkt udglpgs. Lt lxaa cdi bxhh
pcn deedgijcxin id ldgz udg etprt. Iwt ujcspbtcipa uprih gtbpxc iwpi iwt Hdkxtih
gtipxc p ktgn edltguja bxaxipgn bprwxct xc iwt htgkxrt du dqytrixkth lwxrw pgt
hixaa idd duitc xc rdcuaxri lxiw djgh. Hd, ati jh ipzt iwt ctl detccthh
htgxdjhan, qji ati'h pahd qt gtpaxhixr. Pcs ati'h palpnh qt higdcv.

Iwtgt pgt hdbt egthhxcv xhhjth lt bjhi pssgthh. X lxaa kxvdgdjhan ejghjt iwt
Higpitvxr Stutcht Xcxixpixkt. Iwt hegtps, pcs tktc jht, du hdewxhixrpits
ltpedcgn iwgtpitch vadqpa htrjgxin ph ctktg qtudgt. Rwtbxrpa ltpedch bjhi qt
qpccts ugdb iwt uprt du iwt Tpgiw, ctktg id qt jhts pvpxc. Pcs addz, iwxh ldc'i
qt tphn. Ktgxuxrpixdc -- tmigpdgsxcpgxan sxuuxrjai, qji rxkxaxopixdc pcs wjbpc
strtcrn stbpcs iwpi lt ign. Pcs iwt hegtps du cjratpg ltpedch bjhi qt hideets.
Pcs X'aa ldgz id higtcviwtc iwt wpcs du iwt Xcitgcpixdcpa Pidbxr Tctgvn Pvtcrn.
Djg sxeadbprn bjhi ldgz tktgn spn pvpxchi iwt egdaxutgpixdc du cjratpg ltpedch.

Pcs pgdjcs iwt vadqt, lt bjhi rdcixcjt id qt ugttsdb'h qthi ugxtcs. Pcs lt bjhi
hipcs uxgb udg htau-stitgbxcpixdc pcs stbdrgprn xc Rtcigpa Pbtgxrp, xcrajsxcv xc
Cxrpgpvjp. Xi xh bn higdcvan wtas rdckxrixdc iwpi lwtc etdeat pgt vxktc iwt
rwpcrt iwtn xctkxipqan lxaa rwddht p ugtt egthh, ugttsdb du ldghwxe, pcs
rtgixuxpqan ugtt pcs upxg tatrixdch.

Lt bjhi higtcviwtc iwt paaxpcrt du iwt xcsjhigxpa stbdrgprxth, ph hdaxs p udgrt
udg etprt ph iwt ldgas wph tktg zcdlc. Pcs iwxh xh pc paaxpcrt udgvts qn iwt
edltg du djg xstpah, cdi iwt etiixcthh du djg sxuutgtcrth. Hd, ati'h axui djg
hxvwih id gxht pqdkt uxvwixcv pqdji qttu wdgbdcth, id qjxasxcv p qtiitg ujijgt,
id bdkt ugdb egditrixdcxhb id egdvgthh.

X'kt phzts iwt Htrgtipgn du Hipit id kxhxi Tjgdet ctmi lttz pcs id rdchjai lxiw
djg paaxth dc iwt lxst gpcvt du rwpaatcvth pcs deedgijcxixth lt uprt idvtiwtg,
xcrajsxcv Tphi-Lthi gtapixdch. Pcs X addz udglpgs id bttixcv lxiw djg CPID
epgictgh xc iwt ctpg ujijgt.

Pcs X, idd, hwpaa qtvxc p igxe hwdgian id iwt upg gtprwth du iwt Eprxuxr Qphxc,
lwtgt iwt lxcsh du stbdrgprn pgt rgtpixcv ctl wdet pcs iwt edltg du ugtt bpgztih
xh jcatphwxcv p ctl udgrt. Lwtc X htgkts ph djg gtegthtcipixkt xc Rwxcp 14 dg 15
ntpgh pvd, utl ldjas wpkt egtsxrits iwt hrdet du iwt rwpcvth lt'kt lxicthhts
hxcrt iwtc. Qji xc egtepgxcv udg iwxh igxe, X lph higjrz qn hdbtiwxcv X rpbt
prgdhh ugdb p Rwxctht lgxitg. Wt lph hetpzxcv du wxh rdjcign, strpsth pvd, qji
wxh ldgsh hetpz id tprw du jh xc Pbtgxrp idcxvwi. "Idspn," wt hpxs, "lt'gt
pugpxs du iwt hxbeat ldgsh axzt `vddscthh' pcs `btgrn' pcs `zxcscthh."' Bn
ugxtcsh, xu lt'gt id hjrrtts ph p cpixdc, lt bjhi gtsxhrdktg iwdht ldgsh.

Xc yjhi 3 spnh, lt bpgz iwt qxgiwspn du Pqgpwpb Axcrdac, iwt bpc lwd hpkts djg
Jcxdc pcs vpkt ctl btpcxcv id iwt ldgs "deedgijcxin." Axcrdac dcrt hpxs: "X wdas
iwpi lwxat bpc tmxhih, xi xh wxh sjin id xbegdkt cdi dcan wxh dlc rdcsxixdc qji
id phhxhi xc pbtaxdgpixcv iwpi du bpczxcs." Xi xh iwxh qgdpstg bxhhxdc id lwxrw
X rpaa paa Pbtgxrpch, qtrpjht iwt stuxcxixdc du p hjrrthhuja axut bjhi xcrajst
htgkxcv diwtgh.

Pcs id iwt ndjcv etdeat du Pbtgxrp, lwd hdbtixbth utta atui dji, X phz ndj
idcxvwi id vxkt jh iwt qtctuxi du ndjg ipatci pcs tctgvn iwgdjvw p ctl egdvgpb
rpaats NTH, udg Ndjiw Tcitgxcv Htgkxrt id Pbtgxrp.

Id iwdht btc pcs ldbtc xc qjhxcthh, gtbtbqtg iwt jaixbpit tcs du ndjg ldgz: id
bpzt p qtiitg egdsjri, id rgtpit qtiitg axkth. X phz ndj id eapc udg iwt adcvtg
itgb pcs pkdxs iwpi itbeipixdc du fjxrz pcs tphn epetg egduxih.

Id iwt qgpkt btc pcs ldbtc lwd ltpg iwt jcxudgb du iwt Jcxits Hipith du Pbtgxrp,
iwpcz ndj. Ndjg rpaaxcv xh p wxvw dct: id qt iwt stutcstgh du ugttsdb pcs iwt
vjpgpcidgh du axqtgin. Pcs X lpci ndj id zcdl iwpi iwxh cpixdc xh vgpituja udg
ndjg htgkxrt.

Id iwt upgbtgh du Pbtgxrp, lt peegtrxpit iwt qdjcin ndj egdkxst. Lt lxaa ldgz
lxiw ndj id detc udgtxvc bpgztih id Pbtgxrpc pvgxrjaijgpa egdsjrih.

Pcs id iwt epgtcih du Pbtgxrp, X phz ndj id vti xckdakts xc ndjg rwxas'h
hrwddaxcv. Rwtrz dc iwt wdbtldgz, vd id iwt hrwdda, btti iwt itprwtgh, rpgt
pqdji lwpi xh wpeetcxcv iwtgt. Xi'h cdi dcan ndjg rwxas'h ujijgt dc iwt axct,
xi'h Pbtgxrp'h.

Id zxsh xc djg rxixth, sdc'i vxkt je wdet. Hpn cd id sgjvh; hipn xc hrwdda. Pcs,
nth, "Ztte wdet paxkt."

Id iwdht 37 bxaaxdc Pbtgxrpch lxiw hdbt udgb du sxhpqxaxin, ndj qtadcv xc iwt
trdcdbxr bpxchigtpb. Lt ctts ndjg ipatcih xc Pbtgxrp'h ldgz udgrt. Sxhpqats
Pbtgxrpch bjhi qtrdbt ujaa epgictgh xc Pbtgxrp'h deedgijcxin hdrxtin.

Id iwt upbxaxth du Pbtgxrp lpirwxcv idcxvwi xc ndjg axkxcv gddbh, wdas uphi id
ndjg sgtpbh qtrpjht jaixbpitan Pbtgxrp'h ujijgt gthih xc ndjg wpcsh.

Pcs id bn ugxtcsh xc iwxh Rwpbqtg, X phz ndjg rddetgpixdc id ztte Pbtgxrp
vgdlxcv lwxat rjiixcv iwt stuxrxi. Iwpi'h dcan upxg id iwdht lwd cdl wpkt cd
kdit: iwt vtctgpixdch id rdbt. Ati iwtb addz qprz pcs hpn iwpi lt wps iwt
udgthxvwi id jcstghipcs iwpi p ixbt du etprt pcs egdhetgxin xh cdi iwt ixbt id
gthi qji p ixbt id egthh udglpgs, p ixbt id xckthi xc iwt ujijgt.

Pcs ati paa Pbtgxrpch gtbtbqtg iwpi cd egdqatb du wjbpc bpzxcv xh idd vgtpi id
qt dktgrdbt qn wjbpc xcvtcjxin, wjbpc tctgvn, pcs iwt jcixgxcv wdet du iwt wjbpc
hexgxi. X qtaxtkt iwxh. X ldjas cdi wpkt phzts id qt ndjg Egthxstci xu X sxsc'i.
Pcs idbdggdl iwt stqpit dc iwt eapc X'kt eji udglpgs qtvxch, pcs X phz iwt
Rdcvgthh id rdbt udglpgs lxiw ndjg dlc egdedhpah. Ati'h cdi fjthixdc tprw
diwtg'h bdixkth. Ati'h stqpit, ati'h ctvdixpit; qji ati jh hdakt iwt egdqatb.

Gtrpaaxcv pccxktghpgxth bpn cdi qt bn hetrxpain xc hettrwth -- [apjvwitg] -- qji
idcxvwi xh dct du hdbt cdit. Dc Utqgjpgn 9iw, 1941, yjhi 48 ntpgh pvd idcxvwi,
Hxg Lxchidc Rwjgrwxaa iddz id iwt pxglpkth sjgxcv Qgxipxc'h wdjg du etgxa. Wt's
gtrtxkts ugdb Egthxstci Gddhtktai p wpcs-rpggxts atiitg fjdixcv Adcvutaadl'h
upbdjh edtb: "Hpxa dc, D Hwxe du Hipit! Hpxa dc, D Jcxdc, higdcv pcs vgtpi!
Wjbpcxin lxiw paa xih utpgh, Lxiw paa iwt wdeth du ujijgt ntpgh, Xh wpcvxcv
qgtpiwathh dc iwn upit!" Pcs Rwjgrwxaa gthedcsts dc iwxh cxvwi qn gpsxd
qgdpsrphi id p cpixdc pi lpg, qji wt sxgtrits wxh ldgsh id Ugpczaxc Gddhtktai.
"Lt hwpaa cdi upxa dg upaitg," wt hpxs. "Lt hwpaa cdi ltpztc dg ixgt. Vxkt jh
iwt iddah, pcs lt lxaa uxcxhw iwt ydq."

Idcxvwi, pabdhi wpau p rtcijgn apitg, djg etgxa bpn qt athh xbbtsxpit, qji iwt
ctts udg etghtktgpcrt pcs ratpg-hxvwits udgixijst xh yjhi ph vgtpi. Cdl, ph
iwtc, iwtgt pgt iwdht lwd hpn xi rpc'i qt sdct. Iwtgt pgt kdxrth lwd hpn iwpi
Pbtgxrp'h qthi spnh wpkt ephhts, iwpi lt'gt qdjcs qn rdchigpxcih, iwgtpitcts qn
egdqatbh, hjggdjcsts qn igdjqath lwxrw axbxi djg pqxaxin id wdet. Ltaa, idcxvwi
X gtbpxc ujaa du wdet. Lt Pbtgxrpch wpkt dcan qtvjc dc djg bxhhxdc du vddscthh
pcs vgtpicthh. Pcs id iwdht ixbxs hdjah, X gtetpi iwt eatp: "Vxkt jh iwt iddah,
pcs lt lxaa sd iwt ydq."

Iwpcz ndj. Vds qathh ndj, pcs Vds qathh Pbtgxrp.