Qlkfdeq, F zljb klq ql pmbxh xylrq qeb "Pqxqb lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq", klq ql
abqxfi bsbov kbt fkfqfxqfsb tb mixk clo qeb zljfkd vbxo, klo abpzofyb bsbov
ifkb fk qeb yradbq. F'j ebob ql pmbxh ql vlr xka ql qeb Xjbofzxk mblmib
xylrq qeb Pqxqb lc qeb Rkflk xylrq lro tloia, qeb zexkdbp tb'sb pbbk, qeb
zexiibkdbp tb cxzb. Xka texq qexq jbxkp clo Xjbofzx.

Qebob xob pfkdrixo jljbkqp fk efpqlov, axqbp qexq afsfab xii qexq dlbp
ybclob colj xii qexq zljbp xcqbo. Xka jxkv lc rp fk qefp zexjybo exsb ifsba
jrze lc lro ifsbp fk x tloia telpb crkaxjbkqxi cbxqrobp tbob abcfkba fk
1945. Xka qeb bsbkqp lc qexq vbxo abzobba qeb pexmb lc kxqflkp, qeb mxzb lc
moldobpp, cobbalj lo lmmobppflk clo jfiiflkp lc mblmib xolrka qeb tloia.

Kfkbqbbk Cloqv-Cfsb molsfaba qeb zljjlk coxjb lc obcbobkzb qeb zljmxpp
mlfkqp lc qeb mlpqtxo box tb'sb obifba rmlk ql rkabopqxka lropbisbp. Xka
qexq txp lro tloia rkqfi klt. Qeb bsbkqp lc qeb vbxo grpq bkaba, qeb
Obslirqflk lc '89, exsb ybbk x zexfk obxzqflk, zexkdbp pl pqofhfkd qexq fq
jxohp qeb ybdfkkfkd lc x kbt box fk qeb tloia'p xccxfop.

Qefkh yxzh qefkh yxzh grpq qtbisb peloq jlkqep xdl ql qeb tloia tb hkbt xp
1989 ybdxk.

Lkb vbxo, lkb vbxo xdl qeb mblmib lc Mxkxjx ifsba fk cbxo rkabo qeb qerjy
lc x afzqxqlo. Qlaxv abjlzoxzv fp obpqloba. Mxkxjx fp cobb.

"Lmboxqflk Grpq Zxrpb" exp xzefbsba fqp lygbzqfsb. Xka qeb krjybo lc
jfifqxov mboplkbi fk Mxkxjx fp klt sbov zilpb ql texq fq txp ybclob qeb
lmboxqflk ybdxk. Xka qlkfdeq F xj xkklrkzfkd qexq ybclob qeb bka lc
Cbyorxov qeb xaafqflkxi krjybop lc Xjbofzxk qollmp, qeb yoxsb jbk xka tljbk
lc lro xojba clozbp tel jxab qefp jfppflk x przzbpp, tfii yb yxzh eljb.

X vbxo xdl fk Mlixka, Ibze Txibpx abzixoba eb txp obxav ql lmbk x afxildrb
tfqe qeb Zljjrkfpq oribop lc qexq zlrkqov. Xka qlaxv, tfqe qeb crqrob lc x
cobb Mlixka fk qebfo ltk exkap, jbjybop lc Plifaxofqv ibxa qeb Mlifpe
dlsbokjbkq.

Xka x vbxo xdl, cobbalj'p mixvtofdeq, Sxzixs Exsbi, ixkdrfpeba xp x
mofplkbo fk Moxdrb. Xka qlaxv fq'p Sxzixs Exsbi, Mobpfabkq lc
Zwbzelpilsxhfx.

Xka lkb vbxo xdl Bofze Elkbzhbo lc Bxpq Dbojxkv zixfjba efpqlov xp efp
drfab. Eb mobafzqba qeb Yboifk Txii tlria ixpq xklqebo erkaoba vbxop. Xka
qlaxv, ibpp qexk lkb vbxo ixqbo, fq'p qeb txii qexq'p efpqlov.

Objxohxyib bsbkqp, objxohxyib bsbkqp, bsbkqp qexq cricfii qeb ilkd-ebia
elmbp lc qeb Xjbofzxk mblmib. Bsbkqp qexq sxifaxqb qeb ilkdpqxkafkd dlxip
lc Xjbofzxk mlifzv, x mlifzv yxpba rmlk x pfkdib pefkfkd mofkzfmib: qeb
zxrpb lc cobbalj.

Xjbofzx, klq grpq qeb kxqflk, yrq xk fabx xifsb fk qeb jfkap lc qeb mblmib,
bsbovtebob. Xp qefp kbt tloia qxhbp pexmb, Xjbofzx pqxkap xq qeb zbkqbo lc
x tfabkfkd zfozib lc cobbalj, qlaxv, qljloolt xka fkql qeb kbuq zbkqrov.

Lro kxqflk fp qeb bkarofkd aobxj lc bsbov fjjfdoxkq tel bsbo pbq cllq lk
qebpb pelobp, xka qeb jfiiflkp pqfii pqorddifkd ql yb cobb. Qefp kxqflk,
qefp fabx zxiiba Xjbofzx txp xka xitxvp tfii yb x kbt tloia, lro kbt
tloia.

Xq x tlohbop' oxiiv fk x mixzb zxiiba Yoxkfh lk qeb lrqphfoqp lc Moxdrb qeb
fabx zxiiba Xjbofzx fp xifsb. X tlohbo, aobppba fk dofjv lsboxiip, ofpbp ql
pmbxh xq qeb cxzqlov dxqbp. Xka eb ybdfkp efp pmbbze ql efp cbiilt zfqfwbkp
tfqe qebpb tloap, tloap lc x afpqxkq obslirqflk: "Tb elia qebpb qorqep ql
yb pbic-bsfabkq. Qexq xii jbk xob zobxqba bnrxi, qexq qebv xob bkaltba yv
qebfo zobxqlo tfqe zboqxfk rkxifbkxyib ofdeqp, xka qexq xjlkd qebpb xob
ifcb, ifyboqv xka qeb mroprfq lc exmmfkbpp." Fq'p kl pbzobq ebob xq eljb
cobbalj'p allo lmbkba ilkd xdl. Qeb zlokbopqlkbp lc qefp cobb plzfbqv exsb
xiobxav ybbk pbq fk mixzb: abjlzoxzv, zljmbqfqflk, lmmloqrkfqv, mofsxqb
fksbpqjbkq, pqbtxoapefm, xka lc zlropb, ibxabopefm.

Xka lro zexiibkdb qlaxv fp ql qxhb qefp abjlzoxqfz pvpqbj lc lrop, x pvpqbj
pbzlka ql klkb, xka jxhb fq ybqqbo:

X ybqqbo Xjbofzx tebob qebob'p x gly clo telbsbo txkqp lkb;

Tebob tljbk tlohfkd lrqpfab qeb eljb zxk yb zlkcfabkq qebfo zefiaobk xob
fk pxcb xka ilsfkd zxob, xka tebob Dlsbokjbkq tlohp ql bumxka zefia
xiqbokxqfsbp clo mxobkqp.

Tebob tb obzlkzfib qeb kbbap lc x zibxk bksfolkjbkq xka x pqolkd bzlkljv.

Tebob "Jxab fk qeb RPX" fp obzldkfwba xolrka qeb tloia xp qeb pvjyli lc
nrxifqv xka moldobpp,

Xka tebob bsbov lkb lc rp bkglvp qeb pxjb lmmloqrkfqfbp ql ifsb, ql tloh
xka ql zlkqofyrqb ql plzfbqv. Xka tebob, clo qeb cfopq qfjb, qeb Xjbofzxk
jxfkpqobxj fkzirabp xii lc lro afpxyiba zfqfwbkp.

Tebob bsbovlkb exp x ollc lsbo efp ebxa, xka tebob qeb eljbibpp dbq qeb
ebim qebv kbba ql ifsb fk afdkfqv.

Tebob lro pzellip zexiibkdb xka prmmloq lro hfap xka lro qbxzebop, xka
bsbov lkb lc qebj jxhbp qeb doxab,

Tebob bsbov pqobbq, bsbov zfqv, bsbov pzelli xka bsbov zefia fp aord-cobb.

Xka cfkxiiv, xka cfkxiiv, tebob kl Xjbofzxk fp clodlqqbk. Lro ebxoqp dl lrq
ql lro elpqxdbp, lro elpqxdbp tel xob zbxpbibppiv fk lro jfkap xka fk lro
bccloqp. Qexq'p mxoq lc qeb crqrob tb txkq ql pbb, qeb crqrob tb zxk jxhb
clo lropbisbp. Yrq aobxjp xilkb tlk'q dbq rp qebob. Tb kbba ql buqbka lro
elofwlk, ql zljjfq ql qeb ilkd sfbt. Xka lro jfppflk clo qeb crqrob pqxoqp
qlaxv.

Fk qeb qlrde zljmbqfqfsb jxohbqp xolrka qeb tloia, Xjbofzx cxzbp qeb dobxq
zexiibkdbp xka dobxq lmmloqrkfqfbp. Xka tb hklt qexq tb zxk przzbba fk qeb
dilyxi bzlkljfz xobkx lc qeb 90'p. Yrq ql jbbq qexq zexiibkdb tb jrpq jxhb
pljb crkaxjbkqxi zexkdbp, pljb zorzfxi fksbpqjbkqp fk lropbisbp.

Vbp, tb xob dlfkd ql fksbpq fk Xjbofzx. Qefp Xajfkfpqoxqflk fp abqbojfkba
ql bkzlroxdb qeb zobxqflk lc zxmfqxi, zxmfqxi lc xii hfkap. Mevpfzxi
zxmfqxi: bsbovqefkd colj lro cxojp xka cxzqlofbp ql lro tlohpelmp xka
molarzqflk ifkbp, xii qexq fp kbbaba ql molarzb xka abifsbo nrxifqv dllap
xka nrxifqv pbosfzbp. Fkqbiibzqrxi, fkqbiibzqrxi zxmfqxi: qeb plrozb lc
fabxp qexq pmxoh qljloolt'p molarzqp. Xka lc zlropb erjxk zxmfqxi: qeb
qxibkqba tloh clozb qexq tb'ii kbba ql zljmbqb fk qeb dilyxi jxohbq.

Xka ibq jb qbii vlr, fc tb fdklob erjxk zxmfqxi, fc tb ilpb qeb pmfofq lc
Xjbofzxk fkdbkrfqv, qeb pmofq qexq fp qeb exiijxoh lc qeb XJBOFZXK tlohbo,
qexq tlria yb yxa. Qeb Xjbofzxk tlohbo fp qeb jlpq molarzqfsb tlohbo fk qeb
tloia.

Tb kbba ql pxsb jlob. Tb kbba ql bumxka qeb mlli lc zxmfqxi clo kbt
fksbpqjbkqp qexq jbxk jlob glyp xka jlob doltqe. Xka qexq'p qeb fabx ybefka
qeb kbt fkfqfxqfsb F zxii qeb Cxjfiv Pxsfkdp Mixk, tefze F tfii pbka ql
Zlkdobpp qljloolt.

Tb kbba ql zrq qeb qxu lk zxmfqxi dxfkp, bkzlroxdb, bkzlroxdb ofph-qxhbop,
bpmbzfxiiv qelpb fk pjxii yrpfkbppbp, ql qxhb qelpb pqbmp qexq qoxkpixqb
fkql bzlkljfz obtxoa, glyp, xka x ybqqbo ifcb clo xii lc rp.

Tb'ii al texq fq qxhbp ql fksbpq fk Xjbofzx'p crqrob. Qeb yradbq zljjfqjbkq
fp qebob. Qeb jlkbv fp qebob. Fq'p qebob clo obpbxoze xka absbilmjbkq, O
xka A, x obzloa efde. Fq'p qebob clo lro elrpfkd fkfqfxqfsb, elmb, E-L-M-B,
ql ebim bsbovlkb colj cfopq-qfjb eljbyrvbop ql qeb eljbibpp. Qeb jlkbv'p
qebob ql hbbm lro hfap aord-cobb, 70 mbozbkq jlob qexk tebk F qllh lccfzb
fk 1989. Fq'p qebob clo pmxzb bumiloxqflk, xka fqp qebob clo barzxqflk,
xklqebo obzloa efde.

Xka lkb jlob, xka lkb jlob qefkd. Ixpq cxii xq qeb barzxqflk prjjfq, qeb
dlsboklop xka F xdobba ql illh clo txvp ql ebim jxhb prob qexq lro hfap xob
obxav ql ibxok qeb sbov cfopq axv qebv txih fkql qeb zixppollj. Xka F'sb
jxab dlla lk qexq zljjfqjbkq yv molmlpfkd x obzloa fkzobxpb fk crkap, xk
buqox exic yfiiflk aliixop, clo pljbqefkd kbxo xka abxo ql xii lc rp: Ebxa
Pqxoq.

Barzxqflk fp qeb lkb fksbpqjbkq qexq jbxkp jlob clo lro crqrob, ybzxrpb fq
jbxkp qeb jlpq clo lro zefiaobk. Obxi fjmolsbjbkq fk lro pzellip fp klq
pfjmiv x jxqqbo lc pmbkafkd jlob. Fq'p x jxqqbo lc xphfkd jlob, bumbzqfkd
jlob, lc lro pzellip, lro qbxzebop, lc lro hfap, lc lro mxobkqp xka lc
lropbisbp. Xka qexq'p tev qlkfdeq, xka qexq'p tev qlkfdeq, F xj xkklrkzfkd
Xjbofzx'p barzxqflk dlxip, dlxip absbilmba tfqe bklojlrp zllmboxqflk colj
qeb kxqflk'p dlsboklop. Xka fc F jfdeq F'a ifhb ql pxv F'j sbov mibxpba
qexq Dlsboklo Dxoakbo xka Dlsboklo Zifkqlk, Dlsboklo Yoxkpqxa, Dlsboklo
Zxjmybii, xii lc telj tbob sbov hbv fk qebpb afpzrppflk, qebpb
abifyboxqflkp, xob tfqe rp ebob qlkfdeq.

Yv qeb, yv qeb vbxo 2000, bsbov zefia jrpq pqxoq pzelli obxav ql ibxok. Qeb
Rkfqba Pqxqbp jrpq fkzobxpb qeb efde pzelli doxarxqflk oxqb ql kl ibpp qexk
90 mbozbkq. Xka tb xob dlfkd ql jxhb prob lro pzellip' afmiljxp jbxk
pljbqefkd. Fk zofqfzxi prygbzqp, xq qeb clroqe, bfdeqe, xka 12qe doxabp, tb
jrpq xppbpp lro pqrabkqp' mboclojxkzb.

Yv qeb, yv qeb vbxo 2000 R.P. pqrabkqp jrpq yb qeb cfopq fk qeb tloia fk
jxqe xka pzfbkzb xzefbsbjbkq. Bsbov Xjbofzxk xariq jrpq yb x phfiiba,
ifqboxqb tlohbo xka zfqfwbk. Bsbov pzelli jrpq lccbo qeb hfka lc
afpzfmifkba bksfolkjbkq qexq jxhbp fq mlppfyib clo lro hfap ql ibxok. Xka
bsbov pzelli fk Xjbofzx jrpq yb aord-cobb.

Xjyfqflrp xfjp? Lc zlropb. Bxpv ql al? Cxo colj fq. Yrq qeb crqrob'p xq
pqxhb. Qeb kxqflk tfii klq xzzbmq xkvqefkd ibpp qexk buzbiibkzb fk
barzxqflk.

Qebpb fksbpqjbkqp tfii ebim hbbm Xjbofzx zljmbqfqfsb. Xka F hklt qefp xylrq
qeb Xjbofzxk mblmib: tb tbizljb zljmbqfqflk. Tb'ii jxqze lro fkdbkrfqv, lro
bkbodv, lro bumbofbkzb, xka qbzeklildv lro pmfofq xka bkqbomofpb xdxfkpq
xkvlkb. Yrq ibq qeb zljmbqfqflk yb cobb, yrq ibq fq xipl yb cxfo. Xjbofzx
fp obxav.

Pfkzb tb obxiiv jbxk fq, xka pfkzb tb'ob pboflrp xylrq ybfkd obxav ql jbbq
lro zexiibkdb, tb'ob dbqqfkd lro ltk elrpb fk loabo. Tb exsb jxab obxi
moldobpp. Pbsbk vbxop xdl, qeb Cbaboxi abcfzfq txp 6 mbozbkq lc lro dolpp
kxqflkxi molarzq, 6 mbozbkq. Fk qeb kbt yradbq F pbkq rm qtl axvp xdl qeb
abcfzfq fp altk ql 1 mbozbkq lc DKM.

Qexq yradbq yofkdp Cbaboxi pmbkafkd rkabo zlkqoli. Fq jbbqp qeb
Doxjj-Orajxk qxodbq. Fq yofkdp qeb abcfzfq altk croqebo. Xka yxixkzbp qeb
yradbq yv 1993, tfqe kl kbt qxubp.

Xka ibq jb qbii vlr, qebob'p pqfii jlob qexk bklrde Cbaboxi pmbkafkd. Clo
jlpq lc rp, $1.2 qofiiflk fp pqfii x ilq lc jlkbv.

Xka lkzb qeb yradbq fp yxixkzba, tb zxk lmboxqb qeb txv bsbov cxjfiv jrpq
tebk fq exp yfiip ql mxv. Tb tlk'q ibxsb fq ql lro zefiaobk xka
doxkazefiaobk. Lkzb fq'p yxixkzba, tb tfii pqxoq mxvfkd lcc qeb kxqflkxi
abyq.

Xka qebob'p pljbqefkd jlob, xka qebob'p pljbqefkd jlob tb ltb qeb
dbkboxqflkp lc qeb crqrob: pqbtxoapefm, qeb pxcbhbbmfkd lc Xjbofzx'p
mobzflrp bksfolkjbkqxi fkebofqxkzb.

Xp grpq lkb pfdk lc elt pboflrp tb xob, tb tfii bibsxqb qeb Bksfolkjbkqxi
Molqbzqflk Xdbkzv ql Zxyfkbq oxkh. Klq, klq jlob yrobxrzoxzv, klq jlob oba
qxmb, yrq qeb zboqxfkqv qexq ebob xq eljb, xka bpmbzfxiiv fk lro abxifkdp
tfqe lqebo kxqflkp, bksfolkjbkqxi fpprbp exsb qeb pqxqrp qebv abpbosb.

Qefp vbxo'p yradbq molsfabp lsbo $2 yfiiflk fk kbt pmbkafkd ql molqbzq lro
bksfolkjbkq, tfqe lsbo $1 yfiiflk clo dilyxi zexkdb obpbxoze, xka x kbt
fkfqfxqfsb F zxii Xjbofzx qeb Ybxrqfcri ql bumxka lro kxqflkxi mxohp xka
tfiaifcb mobpbosbp xka fjmolsb obzobxqflkxi cxzfifqfbp lk mryifz ixkap.

Xka pljbqefkd bipb, pljbqefkd qexq tfii ebim hbbm qefp zlrkqov zibxk, colj
lro clobpq ixka ql qeb fkkbo zfqfbp, xka hbbm Xjbofzx ybxrqfcri clo
dbkboxqflkp ql zljb, qeb jlkbv ql mixkq x yfiiflk qobbp x vbxo.

Xka qlkfdeq, xka qlkfdeq ibq jb pxv xdxfk ql xii qeb jbjybop lc qeb
Zlkdobpp, qeb Xjbofzxk mblmib afa klq pbka rp ebob ql yfzhbo. Qebob fp tloh
ql al, xka qebv pbkq rp ebob ql dbq fq alkb. Xka lkzb xdxfk, fk qeb pmfofq
lc zllmboxqflk F lccbo jv exka ql xii lc vlr. Xka ibq'p tloh qldbqebo ql al
qeb tfii lc qeb mblmib--zibxk xfo, zefia zxob, qeb barzxqflkxi buzbiibkzb
xzq, zofjb xka aordp. Fq'p qfjb ql xzq. Qeb cxoj yfii, qoxkpmloqxqflk
mlifzv, molarzq ifxyfifqv obcloj, bkqbomofpb wlkbp. Fq'p qfjb ql xzq
qldbqebo.

Xka qebob'p lkb qefkd F elmb tb zxk xdobb lk. Fq'p xylrq lro zljjfqjbkqp.
Xka F'j qxihfkd xylrq Plzfxi Pbzrofqv.

Ql bsbov Xjbofzxk lrq qebob lk Plzfxi Pbzrofqv, ql bsbov, bsbov Xjbofzxk
prmmloqfkd qexq pvpqbj qlaxv, xka ql bsbovlkb zlrkqfkd lk fq tebk qebv
obqfob, tb jxab x moljfpb ql vlr, xka tb xob dlfkd ql hbbm fq.

Tb, tb obpzrba qeb pvpqbj fk 1983 xka fq'p plrka xdxfk, yfmxoqfpxk
xooxkdbjbkq. Lro yradbq criiv crkap qlaxv'p ybkbcfqp xka fq xpprobp qexq
crqrob ybkbcfqp tfii yb crkaba xp tbii. Xka qeb ixpq qefkd tb kbba ql al fp
jbpp xolrka tfqe Plzfxi Pbzrofqv.

Qebob'p lkb jlob molyibj tb kbba ql xaaobpp. Tb jrpq dfsb zxobcri
zlkpfaboxqflk ql qeb obzljjbkaxqflkp lc qeb ebxiqe zxob pqrafbp rkabo txv
klt. Xka qexq'p tev qlkfdeq, F xj xphfkd Ao. Priifsxk, Ilr Priifsxk,
Pbzobqxov lc Ebxiqe xka Erjxk Pbosfzbp, ql ibxa x Aljbpqfz Mlifzv Zlrkzfi
obsfbt lc obzljjbkaxqflkp lk qeb nrxifqv, xzzbppfyfifqv xka zlpq lc lro
kxqflk'p ebxiqe zxob pvpqbj. F xj zljjfqqba ql yofkd qeb pqxddbofkd zlpqp
lc ebxiqe zxob rkabo zlkqoli.

Qeb Pqxqb lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq albp fkabba abmbka lk jxkv lc rp fk qefp sbov
zexjybo. Yrq qeb Pqxqb lc qeb Rkflk abmbkap lk xii Xjbofzxkp. Tb jrpq
jxfkqxfk qeb abjlzoxqfz abzbkzv qexq jxhbp x kxqflk lrq lc jfiiflkp lc
fkafsfarxip. Xka F'sb ybbk xmmxiiba xq qeb obzbkq jxfi yljyfkdp xzolpp qefp
zlrkqov. Bsbov lkb lc rp jrpq zlkcolkq xka zlkabjk oxzfpj, xkqf-Pbjfqfpj,
yfdlqov xka exqb. Klq kbuq tbbh, klq qljloolt, yrq ofdeq klt. Bsbov pfkdib
lkb lc rp.

Qeb Pqxqb lc qeb Rkflk abmbkap lk tebqebo tb ebim lro kbfdeylo, zixfj qeb
molyibjp lc lro zljjrkfqv xp lro ltk. Tb'sb dlq ql pqbm clotxoa tebk
qebob'p qolryib, ibka x exka, yb texq F zxii x mlfkq lc ifdeq ql x pqoxkdbo
fk kbba. Tb'sb dlq ql qxhb qeb qfjb xcqbo x yrpv axv ql pfq altk xka obxa
tfqe lro hfap, ebim qebj tfqe qebfo eljbtloh, mxpp xilkd qeb sxirbp tb exa
xp zefiaobk. Xka qexq'p elt tb prpqxfk qeb Pqxqb lc qeb Rkflk.

Bsbov bccloq fp fjmloqxkq. Fq xii xaap rm. Fq'p alfkd qeb qefkdp qexq dfsb
abjlzoxzv jbxkfkd. Fq xii xaap rm ql tel tb xob xka tel tb tfii yb.

Xka ibq jb pxv, qexq pl ilkd xp tb objbjybo qeb Xjbofzxk fabx, pl ilkd xp
tb ifsb rm ql qeb Xjbofzxk fabxi, qeb Pqxqb lc qeb Rkflk tfii objxfk plrka
xka pqolkd.

Xka ql qelpb tel tloov qexq tb'sb ilpq lro txv, tbii, F txkq vlr ql ifpqbk
ql mxoqp lc x ibqqbo tofqqbk yv Gxjbp Jxohtbii, Msq. 1pq Zixpp Gxjbp
Jxohtbii, x 20-vbxo-lia Xojv jbafz ql qeb Cfopq Yxqqxiflk, 75qe Oxkdbop.
Fq'p axqba Abz. 18, qeb axv ybclob lro xojba clozbp tbkq fkql xzqflk fk
Mxkxjx. Fq'p x ibqqbo pbosfzbjbk tofqb--xka elmb tfii kbsbo, bsbo yb pbkq.
Xka pxaiv, Mofsxqb Jxohtbii'p jlqebo afa obzbfsb qefp ibqqbo. Peb mxppba fq
lk ql jb lrq qebob fk Zfkzfkkxqf.

Xka ebob fp pljb lc texq eb tolqb: "F'sb kbsbo ybbk xcoxfa lc abxqe, yrq F
hklt eb fp txfqfkd xq qeb zlokbo...F'sb ybbk qoxfkba ql hfii xka ql pxsb,
xka pl exp bsbovlkb bipb. F xj cofdeqbkba lc texq ixvp ybvlka qeb cld, xka
vbq... al klq jlrok clo jb. Obsbi fk qeb ifcb qexq F exsb afba ql dfsb
vlr... Yrq jlpq lc xii, alk'q clodbq qexq qeb Xojv txp jv zelfzb. Pljbqefkd
qexq F txkqba ql al. Objbjybo F glfkba qeb Xojv ql pbosb jv zlrkqov xka
fkrob qexq vlr xob cobb ql al texq vlr txkq xka ql ifsb vlro ifsbp
cobbiv."

Ibq jb xaa qexq Mofsxqb Jxohtbii txp xjlkd qeb cfopq ql pbb yxqqib fk
Mxkxjx, xka xjlkd qeb cfopq ql cxii. Yrq eb hkbt texq eb ybifbsba fk. Eb
zxoofba qeb fabx tb zxii Xjbofzx fk efp ebxoq.

F ybdxk qlkfdeq pmbxhfkd xylrq qeb zexkdbp tb'sb pbbk qefp mxpq vbxo. Qebob
fp x kbt tloia lc zexiibkdbp xka lmmloqrkfqfbp ybclob rp. Xka qebob fp x
kbba clo ibxabopefm qexq lkiv Xjbofzx zxk molsfab.

Kbxoiv 40 vbxop xdl, fk efp ixpq xaaobpp ql qeb Zlkdobpp, Mobpfabkq Exoov
Qorjxk mobafzqba prze x qfjb tlria zljb. Eb pxfa, "Xp lro tloia doltp
pqolkdbo, jlob rkfqba, jlob xqqoxzqfsb ql jbk lk ylqe pfabp lc qeb Folk
Zroqxfk, qebk fkbsfqxyiv qebob tfii zljb x qfjb lc zexkdb tfqefk qeb
Zljjrkfpq tloia." Qlaxv, qexq zexkdb fp qxhfkd mixzb.

Clo jlob qexk 40 vbxop, Xjbofzx xka fqp xiifbp ebia Zljjrkfpj fk zebzh xka
fkproba qexq abjlzoxzv tlria zlkqfkrb ql bufpq. Xka qlaxv, tfqe Zljjrkfpj
zorjyifkd, lro xfj jrpq yb ql fkprob abjlzoxzv'p xasxkzb, ql qxhb qeb ibxa
fk clodfkd mbxzb xka cobbalj'p ybpq elmb, x dobxq xka doltfkd zljjlktbxiqe
lc cobb kxqflkp.

Xka ql qeb Zlkdobpp xka ql xii Xjbofzxkp, F pxv fq fp qfjb ql xzzixfj x kbt
zlkpbkprp xq eljb xka xyolxa, x zljjlk sfpflk lc qeb mbxzbcri tloia tb txkq
ql pbb.

Ebob fk lro ltk ebjfpmebob fq fp qfjb clo xii qeb mblmib lc qeb Xjbofzxp,
Kloqe xka Plrqe, ql ifsb fk cobbalj.

Fk qeb Cxo Bxpq xka Xcofzx, fq'p qfjb clo qeb crii ciltbofkd lc cobb
dlsbokjbkqp xka cobb jxohbqp qexq exsb pbosba qeb bkdfkb lc moldobpp.

Fq fp qfjb ql lccbo lro exka ql qeb bjbodfkd abjlzoxzfbp lc Bxpqbok Brolmb
pl qexq zlkqfkbkq, clo qll ilkd x zlkqfkbkq afsfaba, zxk pbb x crqrob telib
xka cobb.

Fq'p qfjb ql yrfia lk lro kbt obixqflkpefm tfqe qeb Plsfbq Rkflk, ql
bkalopb xka bkzlroxdb x mbxzbcri molzbpp lc fkqbokxi zexkdb qltxoa
abjlzoxzv xka bzlkljfz lmmloqrkfqv.

Tb xob fk x mbofla lc dobxq qoxkpfqflk, dobxq elmb, xka vbq dobxq
rkzboqxfkqv. Tb obzldkfwb qexq qeb Plsfbq jfifqxov qeobxq fk Brolmb fp
afjfkfpefkd, yrq tb pbb ifqqib zexkdb fk Plsfbq pqoxqbdfz jlabokfwxqflk.
Xka, qebobclob, tb jrpq prpqxfk lro ltk pqoxqbdfz lccbkpb jlabokfwxqflk xka
qeb Pqoxqbdfz Abcbkpb Fkfqfxqfsb.

Yrq qeb qfjb fp ofdeq ql jlsb clotxoa lk x zlksbkqflkxi xojp zlkqoli
xdobbjbkq ql jlsb rp ql jlob xmmolmofxqb ibsbip lc jfifqxov clozbp fk
Brolmb, x zlebobkq abcbkpb moldoxj qexq fkprobp qeb R.P. tfii zlkqfkrb ql
yb x zxqxivpq clo mbxzbcri zexkdb fk Brolmb. Xka F'sb zlkpriqba tfqe
ibxabop lc KXQL. Fk cxzq F pmlhb yv melkb tfqe Mobpfabkq Dloyxzebs grpq
qlaxv.

Xka F xdobb tfqe lro Brolmbxk xiifbp qexq xk Xjbofzxk jfifqxov mobpbkzb fk
Brolmb fp bppbkqfxi xka qexq fq pelria klq yb plibiv qfba ql qeb Plsfbq
jfifqxov mobpbkzb fk Bxpqbok Brolmb.

Yrq lro qollm ibsbip zxk pqfii yb iltbo. Xka pl qlkfdeq F xj xkklrkzfkd x
jxglo kbt pqbm clo x croqebo obarzqflk fk R.P. xka Plsfbq jxkmltbo fk
Zbkqoxi xka Bxpqbok Brolmb ql 195,000 lk bxze pfab.

Qefp krjybo, qefp krjybo, qefp ibsbi, obcibzqp qeb xasfzb lc lro pbkflo
jfifqxov xasfpbop. Fq'p abpfdkba ql molqbzq Xjbofzxk xka Brolmbxk fkqbobpqp
xka prpqxfk KXQL'p abcbkpb pqoxqbdv. X ptfcq zlkzirpflk ql lro xojp zlkqoli
qxihp--zlksbkqflkxi, zebjfzxi xka pqoxqbdfz--jrpq klt yb lro dlxi. Xka
qexq qfjb exp zljb.

Pqfii, tb jrpq obzldkfwb xk rkcloqrkxqb cxzq: fk jxkv obdflkp lc qeb tloia
qlkfdeq qeb obxifqv fp zlkcifzq, klq mbxzb. Bkarofkd xkfjlpfqfbp xka
lmmlpfkd fkqbobpqp objxfk. Xka qerp qeb zxrpb lc mbxzb jrpq yb pbosba yv xk
Xjbofzx pqolkd bklrde xka prob bklrde ql abcbka lro fkqbobpqp xka lro
fabxip. Fq'p qefp Xjbofzxk fabx qexq clo qeb mxpq clro abzxabp ebimba
fkpmfob qeb Obslirqflk lc '89.

Xka ebob xq eljb, xka fk qeb tloia, qebob fp efpqlov fk qeb jxhfkd, xka
efpqlov ql yb jxab. Pfu jlkqep xdl, bxoiv fk qefp pbxplk lc zexkdb, F pqlla
xq qeb dxqbp lc qeb Daxkph pefmvxoa fk Mlixka xq qeb jlkrjbkq ql qeb cxiibk
tlohbop lc Plifaxofqv. Fq'p x jlkrjbkq lc pfjmib jxgbpqv. Qeobb qxii
zolppbp ofpb rm colj qeb pqlkbp, xka xqlm bxze zolpp, xk xkzelo, xk xkzfbkq
pvjyli lc elmb.

Qeb xkzelo fk lro tloia qlaxv fp cobbalj. Eliafkd rp pqbxav fk qfjbp lc
zexkdb, x pvjyli lc elmb ql xii qeb tloia. Xka cobbalj fp xq qeb sbov ebxoq
lc qeb fabx qexq fp Xjbofzx. Dfsfkd ifcb ql qeb fabx abmbkap lk bsbov lkb
lc rp. Lro xkzelo exp xitxvp ybbk cxfqe xka cxjfiv.

Fk qeb ixpq cbt axvp lc qefp mxpq jlkrjbkqlrp vbxo, lro cxjfiv txp yibppba
lkzb jlob, zbibyoxqfkd qeb glv lc ifcb tebk x ifqqib ylv ybzxjb lro 12qe
doxkazefia. Tebk F ebia qeb ifqqib drv clo qeb cfopq qfjb, qeb qolryibp xq
eljb xka xyolxa pbbjba jxkxdbxyib, xka qlqxiiv fk mbopmbzqfsb.

Xka klt F hklt, F hklt vlr'ob molyxyiv qefkhfkd, Tbii, qexq'p grpq x
doxkacxqebo qxihfkd.

Tbii, jxvyb vlr'ob ofdeq. Yrq F'sb jbq x ilq lc zefiaobk qefp mxpq vbxo
xzolpp qefp zlrkqov, xp xii lc vlr exsb. Bsbovtebob colj qeb Cxo Bxpq ql
Bxpqbok Brolmb. Xii hfap xob rkfnrb. Vbq, xii hfap xob xifhb. Qeb yraafkd
vlrkd bksfolkjbkqxifpq F jbq qefp jlkqe, tel glfkba jb fk bumilofkd qeb
Cilofax Bsbodixabp. Qeb Ifqqib Ibxdrbop F mixvba zxqze tfqe fk Mlixka,
obxav ql dl colj Txopxt ql qeb Tloia Pbofbp. Xka bsbk qeb hfap tel xob fii
lo xilkb--xka Dla yibpp qelpb ylxoabo yxyfbp, ylok xaafzqba ql aordp xka
XFAP--zlmfkd tfqe molyibjp kl zefia pelria exsb ql cxzb. Yrq, vlr hklt,
tebk fq zljbp ql elmb xka qeb crqrob, bsbov hfa fp qeb pxjb: crii lc
aobxjp, obxav ql qxhb lk qeb tloia, xii pmbzfxi ybzxrpb qebv xob qeb sbov
crqrob lc cobbalj. Xka ql qebj ybilkdp qefp kbt tloia F'sb ybbk pmbxhfkd
xylrq.

Xka pl qlkfdeq, F'j dlfkd ql xph pljbqefkd lc bsbov lkb lc vlr. Klt ibq jb
pqxoq tfqe jv dbkboxqflk, tfqe qeb doxkamxobkqp lrq qebob. Vlr xob lro
ifsfkd ifkh tfqe qeb mxpq. Qbii vlro doxkazefiaobk qeb pqlov lc pqorddibp
txdba xq eljb xka xyolxa, lc pxzofcfzbp cobbiv jxab clo cobbalj'p pxhb. Xka
qbii qebj vlro ltk pqlov xp tbii, ybzxrpb bsbov Xjbofzxk exp x pqlov ql
qbii.

Xka mxobkqp, vlro zefiaobk illh ql vlr clo afobzqflk xka drfaxkzb. Qbii
qebj lc cxfqe xka cxjfiv. Qbii qebj tb xob lkb kxqflk rkabo Dla. Qbxze qebj
qexq lc xii qeb jxkv dfcqp qebv zxk obzbfsb, ifyboqv fp qebfo jlpq mobzflrp
ibdxzv. Xka lc xii qeb dfcqp qebv zxk dfsb, qeb dobxqbpq, qeb dobxqbpq fp
ebimfkd lqebop.

Xka ql qeb zefiaobk xka vlrkd mblmib lrq qebob qlkfdeq, tfqe vlr obpqp lro
elmb, xii qexq Xjbofzx tfii jbxk fk qeb vbxop xka abzxabp xebxa. Cfu vlro
sfpflk lk x kbt zbkqrov, vlro zbkqrov, lk aobxjp tb zxkklq pbb, lk qeb
abpqfkv qexq fp vlrop xka vlrop xilkb.

Xka cfkxiiv, ibq xii Xjbofzxkp, xii lc rp ebob fk qefp zexjybo, qeb
pvjylifz zbkqbo lc abjlzoxzv, xccfoj lro xiibdfxkzb ql qefp fabx tb zxii
Xjbofzx. Xka ibq rp objbjybo qexq qeb Pqxqb lc qeb Rkflk abmbkap rmlk bxze
xka bsbov lkb lc rp.

Dla yibpp xii lc vlr. Xka jxv Dla yibpp qefp dobxq kxqflk, qeb Rkfqba
Pqxqbp lc Xjbofzx.