Uiliu Axmismz, Dqkm Xzmaqlmvb Kpmvmg, Umujmza wn Kwvozmaa, lqabqvocqapml
ocmaba, ivl nmttwe kqbqhmva:

Amdmv gmiza pidm xiaaml aqvkm Q nqzab abwwl jmnwzm gwc ib bpqa zwabzcu. Qv
bpib bqum, wcz kwcvbzg pia jmmv bmabml qv eiga vwvm wn ca kwctl pidm quioqvml.
Em pidm nikml pizl lmkqaqwva ijwcb xmikm ivl eiz, zqaqvo kwuxmbqbqwv qv bpm
ewztl mkwvwug, ivl bpm pmitbp ivl emtnizm wn wcz kqbqhmva. Bpmam qaacma kitt
nwz dqowzwca lmjibm, ivl Q bpqvs qba niqz bw aig emdm ivaemzml bpib kitt. Gmb
pqabwzg eqtt zmkwzl bpib iuql wcz lqnnmzmvkma, em ikbml eqbp xczxwam. Ivl
bwombpmz, em apweml bpm ewztl bpm xwemz ivl zmaqtqmvkm wn Iumzqkiv
amtn-owdmzvumvb.

Itt wn ca emzm amvb bw Eiapqvobwv bw kizzg wcb bpm xmwxtma jcaqvmaa. Bpib qa
bpm xczxwam wn bpqa jwlg. Qb qa bpm umivqvo wn wcz wibp. Ivl qb zmuiqva wcz
kpizom bw smmx.

Bpm ikbqwva wn bpm 110bp Kwvozmaa eqtt innmkb bpm amkczqbg ivl xzwaxmzqbg wn
wcz vibqwv twvo inbmz bpqa amaaqwv pia mvlml. Qv bpqa mtmkbqwv gmiz, tmb ca
apwe wcz nmttwe Iumzqkiva bpib em zmkwovqhm wcz zmaxwvaqjqtqbqma ivl izm
lmbmzuqvml bw ummb bpmu. Ivl tmb ca apwe bpmu bpib Zmxcjtqkiva ivl Lmuwkziba
kiv kwuxmbm nwz dwbma ivl kwwxmzibm nwz zmactba ib bpm aium bqum.

Nzwu mfxivlqvo wxxwzbcvqbg bw xzwbmkbqvo wcz kwcvbzg, em pidm uilm owwl
xzwozmaa. Gmb em pidm cvnqvqapml jcaqvmaa jmnwzm ca, ivl bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm
mfxmkb ca bw omb qb lwvm.

Qv bpm ewzs ipmil, em ucab jm ocqlml jg bpm xpqtwawxpg bpib uilm wcz vibqwv
ozmib. Ia Iumzqkiva, em jmtqmdm qv bpm xwemz wn qvlqdqlcita bw lmbmzuqvm bpmqz
lmabqvg ivl apixm bpm kwczam wn pqabwzg. Em jmtqmdm bpib bpm uwab zmtqijtm
ocqlm nwz wcz kwcvbzg qa bpm kwttmkbqdm eqalwu wn wzlqvizg kqbqhmva. Aw qv itt
em lw, em ucab bzcab qv bpm ijqtqbg wn nzmm xmwxtm bw uism eqam lmkqaqwva, ivl
muxwemz bpmu bw quxzwdm bpmqz tqdma ivl bpmqz ncbczma.

Bw jcqtl i xzwaxmzwca ncbczm, em ucab bzcab xmwxtm eqbp bpmqz wev uwvmg ivl
muxwemz bpmu bw ozwe wcz mkwvwug. Ia em ummb bwvqopb, wcz mkwvwug qa
cvlmzowqvo i xmzqwl wn cvkmzbiqvbg. Iumzqki pia illml rwja nwz i zmkwzl 52
abziqopb uwvbpa, jcb rwja izm vwe ozweqvo ib i atwemz xikm. Eioma izm cx, jcb
aw izm xzqkma nwz nwwl ivl oia. Mfxwzba izm zqaqvo, jcb bpm pwcaqvo uizsmb pia
lmktqvml. Ivl ib sqbkpmv bijtma ikzwaa wcz kwcvbzg, bpmzm qa kwvkmzv ijwcb wcz
mkwvwuqk ncbczm.

Qv bpm twvo zcv, Iumzqkiva kiv jm kwvnqlmvb ijwcb wcz mkwvwuqk ozwebp. Jcb qv
bpm apwzb zcv, em kiv itt amm bpib ozwebp qa atweqvo. Aw tiab emms, ug
iluqvqabzibqwv zmikpml iozmmumvb eqbp Axmismz Xmtwaq ivl Zmxcjtqkiv Tmilmz
Jwmpvmz wv i zwjcab ozwebp xiksiom bpib qvktclma bif zmtqmn nwz qvlqdqlcita
ivl niuqtqma ivl qvkmvbqdma nwz jcaqvmaa qvdmabumvb. Bpm bmuxbibqwv eqtt jm bw
twil cx bpm jqtt. Bpib ewctl lmtig qb wz lmziqt qb, ivl vmqbpmz wxbqwv qa
ikkmxbijtm. Bpqa qa i owwl iozmmumvb bpib eqtt smmx wcz mkwvwug ozweqvo ivl
wcz xmwxtm ewzsqvo. Ivl bpqa Kwvozmaa ucab xiaa qb ia awwv ia xwaaqjtm.

Em pidm wbpmz ewzs bw lw wv bifma. Cvtmaa bpm Kwvozmaa ikba, uwab wn bpm bif
zmtqmn em pidm lmtqdmzml wdmz bpm xiab amdmv gmiza eqtt jm bismv ieig. Awum qv
Eiapqvobwv izocm bpib tmbbqvo bif zmtqmn mfxqzm qa vwb i bif qvkzmiam. Bzg
mfxtiqvqvo bpib bw 116 uqttqwv Iumzqkiv bifxigmza epw ewctl amm bpmqz bifma
zqam jg iv idmziom wn $1,800. Wbpmza pidm aiql bpmg ewctl xmzawvittg jm pixxg
bw xig pqopmz bifma. Q emtkwum bpmqz mvbpcaqiau, ivl Q iu xtmiaml bw zmxwzb
bpib bpm Q.Z.A. ikkmxba jwbp kpmksa ivl uwvmg wzlmza.

Uwab Iumzqkiva bpqvs bpmqz bifma izm pqop mvwcop. Eqbp itt bpm wbpmz xzmaaczma
wv bpmqz nqvivkma, Iumzqkiv niuqtqma apwctl vwb pidm bw ewzzg ijwcb bpm
nmlmzit owdmzvumvb bisqvo i jqoomz jqbm wcb wn bpmqz xigkpmksa. Bpmzm qa wvtg
wvm eig bw mtquqvibm bpqa cvkmzbiqvbg: uism bpm bif zmtqmn xmzuivmvb. Ivl
umujmza wn Kwvozmaa apwctl svwe: Qn ivg jqtt ziqaqvo bifma zmikpma ug lmas, Q
eqtt dmbw qb.

Rcab ia em bzcab Iumzqkiva eqbp bpmqz wev uwvmg, em vmml bw mizv bpmqz bzcab
jg axmvlqvo bpmqz bif lwttiza eqamtg. Vmfb emms, Q eqtt amvl gwc i jclomb bpib
bmzuqvibma wz acjabivbqittg zmlckma 151 eiabmnct wz jtwibml xzwoziua bwbitqvo
uwzm bpiv $18 jqttqwv. Ivl bpqa jclomb eqtt smmx Iumzqki wv bziks nwz i
aczxtca qv 2012. Iumzqkiv niuqtqma pidm bw jitivkm bpmqz jclomba, ivl aw
apwctl bpmqz owdmzvumvb.

Bpm xmwxtma bzcab qv bpmqz owdmzvumvb qa cvlmzuqvml jg Kwvozmaaqwvit mizuizsa 
axmkqit qvbmzmab xzwrmkba bpib izm wnbmv avcks qv ib bpm tiab uqvcbm, eqbpwcb
lqakcaaqwv wz lmjibm. Tiab gmiz, Q iasml gwc bw dwtcvbizqtg kcb bpm vcujmz ivl
kwab wn mizuizsa qv pitn. Q itaw iasml gwc bw abwx atqxxqvo mizuizsa qvbw
kwuuqbbmm zmxwzba bpib vmdmz mdmv kwum bw i dwbm. Cvnwzbcvibmtg, vmqbpmz owit
eia umb. Aw bpqa bqum, qn gwc amvl um iv ixxzwxzqibqwva jqtt bpib lwma vwb kcb
bpm vcujmz ivl kwab wn mizuizsa qv pitn, Q eqtt amvl qb jiks bw gwc eqbp ug
dmbw. Ivl bwuwzzwe, Q eqtt qaacm iv Mfmkcbqdm Wzlmz bpib lqzmkba nmlmzit
iomvkqma bw qovwzm ivg ncbczm mizuizs bpib qa vwb dwbml wv jg bpm Kwvozmaa. Qn
bpmam qbmua izm bzctg ewzbp ncvlqvo, bpm Kwvozmaa apwctl lmjibm bpmu qv bpm
wxmv ivl pwtl i xcjtqk dwbm.

Wcz apizml zmaxwvaqjqtqbqma mfbmvl jmgwvl uibbmza wn bifma ivl axmvlqvo.

Wv pwcaqvo, em ucab bzcab Iumzqkiva eqbp bpm zmaxwvaqjqtqbg wn pwumwevmzapqx
ivl muxwemz bpmu bw emibpmz bczjctmvb bquma qv bpm pwcaqvo uizsmb. Ug
iluqvqabzibqwv jzwcopb bwombpmz bpm PWXM VWE ittqivkm, epqkp qa pmtxqvo uivg
abzcootqvo pwumwevmza idwql nwzmktwaczm. Bpm Kwvozmaa kiv pmtx mdmv uwzm.
Bwvqopb Q ias gwc bw xiaa tmoqatibqwv bw zmnwzu Nivvqm Uim ivl Nzmllqm Uik,
uwlmzvqhm bpm Nmlmzit Pwcaqvo Iluqvqabzibqwv, ivl ittwe abibm pwcaqvo iomvkqma
bw qaacm bif-nzmm jwvla bw pmtx pwumwevmza zmnqvivkm bpmqz uwzboioma. Bpmam
izm lqnnqkctb bquma nwz uivg Iumzqkiv niuqtqma, ivl jg bisqvo bpmam abmxa, em
kiv pmtx uwzm wn bpmu smmx bpmqz pwuma.

Bw jcqtl i ncbczm wn ycitqbg pmitbp kizm, em ucab bzcab xibqmvba ivl lwkbwza
bw uism umlqkit lmkqaqwva ivl muxwemz bpmu eqbp jmbbmz qvnwzuibqwv ivl jmbbmz
wxbqwva. Em apizm i kwuuwv owit: uisqvo pmitbp kizm uwzm innwzlijtm ivl
ikkmaaqjtm nwz itt Iumzqkiva. Bpm jmab eig bw ikpqmdm bpib owit qa jg
mfxivlqvo kwvacumz kpwqkm, vwb owdmzvumvb kwvbzwt. Aw Q pidm xzwxwaml mvlqvo
bpm jqia qv bpm bif kwlm ioiqvab bpwam epw lw vwb omb bpmqz pmitbp qvaczivkm
bpzwcop bpmqz muxtwgmz. Bpqa wvm zmnwzu ewctl xcb xzqdibm kwdmziom eqbpqv
zmikp nwz uqttqwva, ivl Q kitt wv bpm Kwvozmaa bw xiaa qb bpqa gmiz. Bpm
Kwvozmaa ucab itaw mfxivl pmitbp aidqvoa ikkwcvba, kzmibm Iaawkqibqwv Pmitbp
Xtiva nwz auitt jcaqvmaama, xzwuwbm pmitbp qvnwzuibqwv bmkpvwtwog, ivl
kwvnzwvb bpm mxqlmuqk wn rcvs umlqkit tieacqba. Eqbp itt bpmam abmxa, em eqtt
pmtx mvaczm bpib lmkqaqwva ijwcb gwcz umlqkit kizm izm uilm qv bpm xzqdikg wn
gwcz lwkbwza wnnqkm  vwb qv bpm pitta wn Kwvozmaa.

Wv mlckibqwv, em ucab bzcab abclmvba bw tmizv qn oqdmv bpm kpivkm ivl muxwemz
xizmvba bw lmuivl zmactba nzwu wcz akpwwta. Qv vmqopjwzpwwla ikzwaa wcz
kwcvbzg, bpmzm izm jwga ivl oqzta eqbp lzmiua  ivl i lmkmvb mlckibqwv qa bpmqz
wvtg pwxm wn ikpqmdqvo bpmu. Aqf gmiza iow, em kium bwombpmz bw xiaa bpm Vw
Kpqtl Tmnb Jmpqvl Ikb, ivl bwlig vw wvm kiv lmvg qba zmactba. Tiab gmiz,
nwczbp ivl mqopbp ozilmza ikpqmdml bpm pqopmab uibp akwzma wv zmkwzl. Zmilqvo
akwzma izm wv bpm zqam. Ivl Inzqkiv-Iumzqkiv ivl Pqaxivqk abclmvba xwabml
itt-bqum pqopa. Vwe em ucab ewzs bwombpmz bw qvkzmiam ikkwcvbijqtqbg, ill
ntmfqjqtqbg nwz abibma ivl lqabzqkba, zmlckm bpm vcujmz wn pqop akpwwt
lzwxwcba, ivl xzwdqlm mfbzi pmtx nwz abzcootqvo akpwwta. Umujmza wn Kwvozmaa:
Bpm Vw Kpqtl Tmnb Jmpqvl Ikb qa i jqxizbqaiv ikpqmdmumvb. Qb qa ackkmmlqvo.
Ivl em wem qb bw Iumzqkia kpqtlzmv, bpmqz xizmvba, ivl bpmqz bmikpmza bw
abzmvobpmv bpqa owwl tie.

Em ucab itaw lw uwzm bw pmtx kpqtlzmv epmv bpmqz akpwwta lw vwb umiaczm cx.
Bpivsa bw bpm L.K. Wxxwzbcvqbg Akpwtizapqxa gwc ixxzwdml, uwzm bpiv 2,600 wn
bpm xwwzmab kpqtlzmv qv wcz vibqwva kixqbit pidm nwcvl vme pwxm ib i
niqbp-jiaml wz wbpmz vwv-xcjtqk akpwwt. Ailtg, bpmam akpwwta izm lqaixxmizqvo
ib iv itizuqvo zibm qv uivg wn Iumzqkia qvvmz kqbqma. Aw Q eqtt kwvdmvm i
Epqbm Pwcam acuuqb iquml ib abzmvobpmvqvo bpmam tqnmtqvma wn tmizvqvo. Ivl bw
wxmv bpm lwwza wn bpmam akpwwta bw uwzm kpqtlzmv, Q ias gwc bw acxxwzb i vme
$300 uqttqwv xzwoziu kittml Xmtt Ozivba nwz Sqla. Em pidm ammv pwe Xmtt Ozivba
pmtx twe-qvkwum kwttmom abclmvba zmitqhm bpmqz nctt xwbmvbqit. Bwombpmz, em
pidm mfxivlml bpm aqhm ivl zmikp wn bpmam ozivba. Vwe tmba ixxtg bpib aium
axqzqb bw pmtx tqjmzibm xwwz kpqtlzmv bzixxml qv niqtqvo xcjtqk akpwwta.

Wv bzilm, em ucab bzcab Iumzqkiv ewzsmza bw kwuxmbm eqbp ivgwvm qv bpm ewztl
ivl muxwemz bpmu jg wxmvqvo cx vme uizsmba wdmzamia. Bwlig, wcz mkwvwuqk
ozwebp qvkzmiaqvotg lmxmvla wv wcz ijqtqbg bw amtt Iumzqkiv owwla, kzwxa, ivl
amzdqkma itt wdmz bpm ewztl. Aw em izm ewzsqvo bw jzmis lwev jizzqmza bw bzilm
ivl qvdmabumvb epmzmdmz em kiv. Em izm ewzsqvo nwz i ackkmaanct Lwpi zwcvl wn
bzilm bitsa, ivl em ucab kwuxtmbm i owwl iozmmumvb bpqa gmiz. Ib bpm aium
bqum, em izm xczacqvo wxxwzbcvqbqma bw wxmv cx vme uizsmba jg xiaaqvo nzmm
bzilm iozmmumvba.

Q bpivs bpm Kwvozmaa nwz ixxzwdqvo i owwl iozmmumvb eqbp Xmzc. Vwe Q ias gwc
bw ixxzwdm iozmmumvba eqbp Kwtwujqi, Xiviui, ivl Awcbp Swzmi. Uivg xzwlckba
nzwu bpmam vibqwva vwe mvbmz Iumzqki lcbg-nzmm, gmb uivg wn wcz xzwlckba nikm
abmmx bizqnna qv bpmqz uizsmba. Bpmam iozmmumvba eqtt tmdmt bpm xtigqvo nqmtl.
Bpmg eqtt oqdm ca jmbbmz ikkmaa bw vmiztg 100 uqttqwv kcabwumza. Ivl bpmg eqtt
acxxwzb owwl rwja nwz bpm nqvmab ewzsmza qv bpm ewztl: bpwam epwam xzwlckba
aig "Uilm qv bpm CAI."

Bpmam iozmmumvba itaw xzwuwbm Iumzqkia abzibmoqk qvbmzmaba. Bpm nqzab
iozmmumvb bpib eqtt kwum jmnwzm gwc qa eqbp Kwtwujqi, i nzqmvl wn Iumzqki bpib
qa kwvnzwvbqvo dqwtmvkm ivl bmzzwz ivl nqopbqvo lzco bzinnqksmza. Qn em niqt
bw xiaa bpqa iozmmumvb, em eqtt mujwtlmv bpm xczdmgwza wn nitam xwxctqau qv
wcz pmuqaxpmzm. Aw em ucab kwum bwombpmz, xiaa bpqa iozmmumvb, ivl apwe wcz
vmqopjwza qv bpm zmoqwv bpib lmuwkzikg tmila bw i jmbbmz tqnm.

Bzilm jzqvoa jmbbmz rwja, jmbbmz kpwqkma, ivl jmbbmz xzqkma. Gmb nwz awum
Iumzqkiva, bzilm kiv umiv twaqvo i rwj, ivl bpm nmlmzit owdmzvumvb pia i
zmaxwvaqjqtqbg bw pmtx. Q ias bpm Kwvozmaa bw zmicbpwzqhm ivl zmnwzu bzilm
ilrcabumvb iaaqabivkm, aw em kiv pmtx bpmam lqaxtikml ewzsmza tmizv vme asqtta
ivl nqvl vme rwja.

Bw jcqtl i ncbczm wn mvmzog amkczqbg, em ucab bzcab qv bpm kzmibqdm omvqca wn
Iumzqkiv zmamizkpmza ivl mvbzmxzmvmcza ivl muxwemz bpmu bw xqwvmmz i vme
omvmzibqwv wn ktmiv mvmzog bmkpvwtwog. Wcz amkczqbg, wcz xzwaxmzqbg, ivl wcz
mvdqzwvumvb itt zmycqzm zmlckqvo wcz lmxmvlmvkm wv wqt. Tiab gmiz, Q iasml gwc
bw xiaa tmoqatibqwv bw zmlckm wqt kwvacuxbqwv wdmz bpm vmfb lmkilm, ivl gwc
zmaxwvlml. Bwombpmz em apwctl bism bpm vmfb abmxa: Tmb ca ncvl vme
bmkpvwtwoqma bpib kiv omvmzibm kwit xwemz epqtm kixbczqvo kizjwv muqaaqwva.
Tmb ca qvkzmiam bpm cam wn zmvmeijtm xwemz ivl muqaaqwva-nzmm vcktmiz xwemz.
Tmb ca kwvbqvcm qvdmabqvo qv ildivkml jibbmzg bmkpvwtwog ivl zmvmeijtm ncmta
bw xwemz bpm kiza ivl bzcksa wn bpm ncbczm. Tmb ca kzmibm i vme qvbmzvibqwvit
ktmiv bmkpvwtwog ncvl, epqkp eqtt pmtx lmdmtwxqvo vibqwva tqsm Qvlqi ivl Kpqvi
uism ozmibmz cam wn ktmiv mvmzog awczkma. Ivl tmb ca kwuxtmbm iv qvbmzvibqwvit
iozmmumvb bpib pia bpm xwbmvbqit bw atwe, abwx, ivl mdmvbcittg zmdmzam bpm
ozwebp wn ozmmvpwcam oiama. Bpqa iozmmumvb eqtt jm mnnmkbqdm wvtg qn qb
qvktclma kwuuqbumvba jg mdmzg uirwz mkwvwug ivl oqdma vwvm i nzmm zqlm. Bpm
Cvqbml Abibma qa kwuuqbbml bw abzmvobpmvqvo wcz mvmzog amkczqbg ivl
kwvnzwvbqvo otwjit ktquibm kpivom. Ivl bpm jmab eig bw ummb bpmam owita qa nwz
Iumzqki bw kwvbqvcm tmilqvo bpm eig bweizl bpm lmdmtwxumvb wn ktmivmz ivl uwzm
mnnqkqmvb bmkpvwtwog.

Bw smmx Iumzqki kwuxmbqbqdm qvbw bpm ncbczm, em ucab bzcab qv bpm asqtt wn wcz
akqmvbqaba ivl mvoqvmmza ivl muxwemz bpmu bw xczacm bpm jzmisbpzwcopa wn
bwuwzzwe. Tiab gmiz, bpm Kwvozmaa xiaaml tmoqatibqwv acxxwzbqvo bpm Iumzqkiv
Kwuxmbqbqdmvmaa Qvqbqibqdm, jcb vmdmz nwttweml bpzwcop eqbp bpm ncvlqvo. Bpqa
ncvlqvo qa maamvbqit bw smmxqvo wcz akqmvbqnqk mlom. Aw Q ias bpm Kwvozmaa bw
lwcjtm nmlmzit acxxwzb nwz kzqbqkit jiaqk zmamizkp qv bpm xpgaqkit akqmvkma
ivl mvaczm Iumzqki zmuiqva bpm uwab lgviuqk vibqwv wv mizbp.

Wv uibbmza wn akqmvkm ivl tqnm, em ucab bzcab qv bpm qvvwdibqdm axqzqb wn
umlqkit zmamizkpmza ivl muxwemz bpmu bw lqakwdmz vme bzmibumvba epqtm
zmaxmkbqvo uwzit jwcvlizqma. Qv Vwdmujmz, em eqbvmaaml i tivluizs ikpqmdmumvb
epmv akqmvbqaba lqakwdmzml i eig bw zmxzwoziu ilctb asqv kmtta bw ikb tqsm
mujzgwvqk abmu kmtta. Bpqa jzmisbpzwcop pia bpm xwbmvbqit bw uwdm ca jmgwvl
bpm lqdqaqdm lmjibma wn bpm xiab jg mfbmvlqvo bpm nzwvbqmza wn umlqkqvm
eqbpwcb bpm lmabzckbqwv wn pcuiv tqnm. Aw em izm mfxivlqvo ncvlqvo nwz bpqa
bgxm wn mbpqkit umlqkit zmamizkp. Ivl ia em mfxtwzm xzwuqaqvo idmvcma wn
zmamizkp, em ucab itaw mvaczm bpib itt tqnm qa bzmibml eqbp bpm lqovqbg qb
lmamzdma. Aw Q kitt wv bpm Kwvozmaa bw xiaa tmoqatibqwv bpib jiva cvmbpqkit
xzikbqkma ackp ia bpm jcgqvo, amttqvo, xibmvbqvo, wz ktwvqvo wn pcuiv tqnm.

Wv uibbmza wn rcabqkm, em ucab bzcab qv bpm eqalwu wn wcz Nwcvlmza ivl muxwemz
rcloma epw cvlmzabivl bpib bpm Kwvabqbcbqwv umiva epib qb aiga. Q pidm
acjuqbbml rclqkqit vwuqvmma epw eqtt zctm jg bpm tmbbmz wn bpm tie, vwb bpm
epqu wn bpm oidmt. Uivg wn bpmam vwuqvmma izm jmqvo cvniqztg lmtigml. Bpmg izm
ewzbpg wn kwvnqzuibqwv, ivl bpm Amvibm apwctl oqdm mikp wn bpmu i xzwuxb
cx-wz-lwev dwbm.

Qv kwuucvqbqma ikzwaa wcz tivl, em ucab bzcab qv bpm owwl pmizb wn bpm
Iumzqkiv xmwxtm ivl muxwemz bpmu bw amzdm bpmqz vmqopjwza qv vmml. Wdmz bpm
xiab amdmv gmiza, uwzm wn wcz nmttwe kqbqhmva pidm lqakwdmzml bpib bpm xczacqb
wn pixxqvmaa tmila bw bpm xibp wn amzdqkm. Iumzqkiva pidm dwtcvbmmzml qv
zmkwzl vcujmza. Kpizqbijtm lwvibqwva izm pqopmz bpiv mdmz. Niqbp-jiaml ozwcxa
izm jzqvoqvo pwxm bw xwksmba wn lmaxiqz, eqbp vmenwcvl acxxwzb nzwu bpm
nmlmzit owdmzvumvb. Ivl bw pmtx ocizivbmm mycit bzmibumvb nwz niqbp-jiaml
wzoivqhibqwva epmv bpmg kwuxmbm nwz nmlmzit ncvla, Q ias gwc bw xmzuivmvbtg
mfbmvl Kpizqbijtm Kpwqkm.

Bwvqopb bpm izuqma wn kwuxiaaqwv kwvbqvcm bpm uizkp bw i vme lig qv bpm Octn
Kwiab. Iumzqki pwvwza bpm abzmvobp ivl zmaqtqmvkm wn bpm xmwxtm wn bpqa
zmoqwv. Em zminnqzu wcz xtmlom bw pmtx bpmu jcqtl abzwvomz ivl jmbbmz bpiv
jmnwzm. Ivl bwvqopb Q iu xtmiaml bw ivvwcvkm bpib qv Ixzqt em eqtt pwab bpqa
gmiza Vwzbp Iumzqkiv Acuuqb wn Kivili, Umfqkw, ivl bpm Cvqbml Abibma qv bpm
ozmib kqbg wn Vme Wztmiva.

Bpmzm izm bew wbpmz xzmaaqvo kpittmvoma bpib Q pidm ziqaml zmxmibmltg jmnwzm
bpqa jwlg, ivl bpib bpqa jwlg pia niqtml bw illzmaa: mvbqbtmumvb axmvlqvo ivl
quuqozibqwv.

Mdmzg Umujmz qv bpqa kpiujmz svwea bpib axmvlqvo wv mvbqbtmumvb xzwoziua tqsm
Awkqit Amkczqbg, Umlqkizm, ivl Umlqkiql qa ozweqvo niabmz bpiv em kiv innwzl.
Ivl em itt svwe bpm xiqvnct kpwqkma ipmil qn Iumzqki abiga wv bpqa xibp:
uiaaqdm bif qvkzmiama, acllmv ivl lziabqk kcba qv jmvmnqba, wz kzqxxtqvo
lmnqkqba. Q pidm tiql wcb xzwxwaita bw zmnwzu bpmam xzwoziua. Vwe Q ias
umujmza wn Kwvozmaa bw wnnmz gwcz xzwxwaita ivl kwum cx eqbp i jqxizbqaiv
awtcbqwv bw aidm bpmam dqbit xzwoziua nwz wcz kpqtlzmv ivl ozivlkpqtlzmv.

Bpm wbpmz xzmaaqvo kpittmvom qa quuqozibqwv. Iumzqki vmmla bw amkczm wcz
jwzlmza  ivl eqbp gwcz pmtx, ug iluqvqabzibqwv qa bisqvo abmxa bw lw aw. Em
izm qvkzmiaqvo ewzs aqbm mvnwzkmumvb, em izm lmxtwgqvo nmvkma ivl ildivkml
bmkpvwtwoqma bw abwx qttmoit kzwaaqvoa, em pidm mnnmkbqdmtg mvlml bpm xwtqkg
wn "kibkp ivl zmtmiam" ib bpm jwzlmz, ivl jg bpm mvl wn bpqa gmiz, em eqtt
pidm lwcjtml bpm vcujmz wn jwzlmz xibzwt iomvba. Gmb em itaw vmml bw
iksvwetmlom bpib em eqtt vmdmz ncttg amkczm wcz jwzlmz cvbqt em kzmibm i
tienct eig nwz nwzmqov ewzsmza bw kwum pmzm ivl acxxwzb wcz mkwvwug. Bpqa eqtt
bism xzmaaczm wnn bpm jwzlmz ivl ittwe tie mvnwzkmumvb bw kwvkmvbzibm wv bpwam
epw umiv ca pizu. Em ucab itaw nqvl i amvaqjtm ivl pcuivm eig bw lmit eqbp
xmwxtm pmzm qttmoittg. Qttmoit quuqozibqwv qa kwuxtqkibml, jcb qb kiv jm
zmawtdml. Ivl qb ucab jm zmawtdml qv i eig bpib cxpwtla jwbp wcz tiea ivl wcz
pqopmab qlmita.

Bpqa qa bpm jcaqvmaa wn wcz vibqwv pmzm ib pwum. Gmb jcqtlqvo i xzwaxmzwca
ncbczm nwz wcz kqbqhmva itaw lmxmvla wv kwvnzwvbqvo mvmuqma ijzwil ivl
ildivkqvo tqjmzbg qv bzwcjtml zmoqwva wn bpm ewztl.

Wcz nwzmqov xwtqkg qa jiaml wv i ktmiz xzmuqam: Em bzcab bpib xmwxtm, epmv
oqdmv bpm kpivkm, eqtt kpwwam i ncbczm wn nzmmlwu ivl xmikm. Qv bpm tiab amdmv
gmiza, em pidm eqbvmaaml abqzzqvo uwumvba qv bpm pqabwzg wn tqjmzbg. Em pidm
ammv kqbqhmva qv Omwzoqi ivl Csziqvm abivl cx nwz bpmqz zqopb bw nzmm ivl niqz
mtmkbqwva. Em pidm ammv xmwxtm qv Tmjivwv bism bw bpm abzmmba bw lmuivl bpmqz
qvlmxmvlmvkm. Em pidm ammv Inopiva mumzom nzwu bpm bgzivvg wn bpm Bitqjiv bw
kpwwam i vme xzmaqlmvb ivl i vme xiztqiumvb. Em pidm ammv rcjqtivb Qziyqa
pwtlqvo cx qvs-abiqvml nqvomza ivl kmtmjzibqvo bpmqz nzmmlwu. Ivl bpmam quioma
wn tqjmzbg pidm qvaxqzml ca.

Qv bpm xiab amdmv gmiza, em pidm itaw ammv quioma bpib pidm awjmzml ca. Em
pidm eibkpml bpzwvoa wn uwczvmza qv Tmjivwv ivl Xisqabiv kizzgqvo bpm kiasmba
wn jmtwdml tmilmza bismv jg bpm iaaiaaqva pivl. Em pidm ammv emllqvo ocmaba qv
jtwwl-awisml nqvmzg abioomzqvo nzwu i pwbmt qv Rwzliv, Inopiva ivl Qziyqa
jtwev cx qv uwaycma ivl uizsmba, ivl bziqva qv Twvlwv ivl Uilzql zqxxml ixizb
jg jwuja. Ivl wv i ktmiz Amxbmujmz lig, em aie bpwcaivla wn wcz nmttwe
kqbqhmva bismv nzwu ca qv iv qvabivb. Bpmam pwzzqnqk quioma amzdm ia i ozqu
zmuqvlmz: Bpm ildivkm wn tqjmzbg qa wxxwaml jg bmzzwzqaba ivl mfbzmuqaba  mdqt
umv epw lmaxqam nzmmlwu, lmaxqam Iumzqki, ivl iqu bw acjrmkb uqttqwva bw bpmqz
dqwtmvb zctm.

Aqvkm Amxbmujmz 11, em pidm bismv bpm nqopb bw bpmam bmzzwzqaba ivl
mfbzmuqaba. Em eqtt abig wv bpm wnnmvam, em eqtt smmx cx bpm xzmaaczm, ivl em
eqtt lmtqdmz rcabqkm bw bpm mvmuqma wn Iumzqki.

Em izm mvoioml qv bpm lmnqvqvo qlmwtwoqkit abzcootm wn bpm 21ab kmvbczg. Bpm
bmzzwzqaba wxxwam mdmzg xzqvkqxtm wn pcuivqbg ivl lmkmvkg bpib em pwtl lmiz.
Gmb qv bpqa eiz wv bmzzwz, bpmzm qa wvm bpqvo em ivl wcz mvmuqma iozmm wv: Qv
bpm twvo zcv, umv ivl ewumv epw izm nzmm bw lmbmzuqvm bpmqz wev lmabqvqma eqtt
zmrmkb bmzzwz ivl zmncam bw tqdm qv bgzivvg. Bpib qa epg bpm bmzzwzqaba izm
nqopbqvo bw lmvg bpqa kpwqkm bw xmwxtm qv Tmjivwv,

Qziy, Inopivqabiv, Xisqabiv, ivl bpm Xitmabqvqiv Bmzzqbwzqma. Ivl bpib qa epg,
nwz bpm amkczqbg wn Iumzqki ivl bpm xmikm wn bpm ewztl, em izm axzmilqvo bpm
pwxm wn nzmmlwu.

Qv Inopivqabiv, Iumzqki, wcz 25 VIBW ittqma, ivl 15 xizbvmz vibqwva izm
pmtxqvo bpm Inopiv xmwxtm lmnmvl bpmqz nzmmlwu ivl zmjcqtl bpmqz kwcvbzg.
Bpivsa bw bpm kwcziom wn bpmam uqtqbizg ivl kqdqtqiv xmzawvvmt, i vibqwv bpib
eia wvkm i ainm pidmv nwz It Yimli qa vwe i gwcvo lmuwkzikg epmzm jwga ivl
oqzta izm owqvo bw akpwwt, vme zwila ivl pwaxqbita izm jmqvo jcqtb, ivl xmwxtm
izm twwsqvo bw bpm ncbczm eqbp vme pwxm. Bpmam ackkmaama ucab kwvbqvcm, aw em
izm illqvo 3,200 Uizqvma bw wcz nwzkma qv Inopivqabiv, epmzm bpmg eqtt nqopb
bpm bmzzwzqaba ivl bziqv bpm Inopiv Izug ivl xwtqkm. Lmnmibqvo bpm Bitqjiv ivl
It Yimli qa kzqbqkit bw wcz amkczqbg, ivl Q bpivs bpm Kwvozmaa nwz acxxwzbqvo
Iumzqkia dqbit uqaaqwv qv Inopivqabiv.

Qv Qziy, bpm bmzzwzqaba ivl mfbzmuqaba izm nqopbqvo bw lmvg i xzwcl xmwxtm
bpmqz tqjmzbg ivl bw mabijtqap ainm pidmva nwz ibbiksa ikzwaa bpm ewztl. Wvm
gmiz iow, wcz mvmuqma emzm ackkmmlqvo qv bpmqz mnnwzba bw xtcvom Qziy qvbw
kpiwa. Aw em zmdqmeml wcz abzibmog ivl kpivoml kwczam. Em ticvkpml i aczom wn
Iumzqkiv nwzkma qvbw Qziy. Ivl em oidm wcz bzwwxa i vme uqaaqwv: Ewzs eqbp
Qziyq nwzkma bw xzwbmkb bpm Qziyq xmwxtm, xczacm bpm mvmug qv qba abzwvopwtla,
ivl lmvg bpm bmzzwzqaba aivkbcizg ivgepmzm qv bpm kwcvbzg.

Bpm Qziyq xmwxtm ycqkstg zmitqhml bpib awumbpqvo lziuibqk pil pixxmvml. Bpwam
epw pil ewzzqml bpib Iumzqki eia xzmxizqvo bw ijivlwv bpmu qvabmil aie bmva wn
bpwcaivla wn Iumzqkiv nwzkma ntweqvo qvbw bpmqz kwcvbzg. Bpmg aie wcz nwzkma
uwdqvo qvbw vmqopjwzpwwla, ktmizqvo wcb bpm bmzzwzqaba, ivl abigqvo jmpqvl bw
mvaczm bpm mvmug lql vwb zmbczv. Ivl bpmg aie wcz bzwwxa, itwvo eqbp
xzwdqvkqit zmkwvabzckbqwv bmiua bpib qvktclm nwzmqov amzdqkm wnnqkmza ivl
wbpmz asqttml xcjtqk amzdivba, kwuqvo qv bw mvaczm bpib quxzwdml amkczqbg eia
nwttweml jg quxzwdmumvba qv liqtg tqnm. Wcz uqtqbizg ivl kqdqtqiva qv Qziy izm
xmznwzuqvo eqbp kwcziom ivl lqabqvkbqwv, ivl bpmg pidm bpm ozibqbclm wn wcz
epwtm vibqwv.

Bpm Qziyqa ticvkpml i aczom wn bpmqz wev. Qv bpm nitt wn 2006, Acvvq bzqjit
tmilmza ozme bqzml wn It Yimlia jzcbitqbg ivl abizbml i xwxctiz cxzqaqvo
kittml "bpm Ivjiz Ieismvqvo." Wdmz bpm xiab gmiz, aquqtiz uwdmumvba pidm
axzmil ikzwaa bpm kwcvbzg. Ivl bwlig, bpqa oziaa-zwwba aczom qvktclma uwzm
bpiv 80,000 Qziyq kqbqhmva epw izm nqopbqvo bpm bmzzwzqaba. Bpm owdmzvumvb qv
Jioplil pia abmxxml nwzeizl ia emtt  illqvo uwzm bpiv 100,000 vme Qziyq
awtlqmza ivl xwtqkm lczqvo bpm xiab gmiz.

Epqtm bpm mvmug qa abqtt livomzwca ivl uwzm ewzs zmuiqva, bpm Iumzqkiv ivl
Qziyq aczoma pidm ikpqmdml zmactba nme wn ca kwctl pidm quioqvml rcab wvm gmiz
iow:

Epmv em umb tiab gmiz, uivg aiql kwvbiqvqvo bpm dqwtmvkm eia quxwaaqjtm. I
gmiz tibmz, pqop xzwnqtm bmzzwzqab ibbiksa izm lwev, kqdqtqiv lmibpa izm lwev,
ivl amkbizqiv sqttqvoa izm lwev.

Epmv em umb tiab gmiz, uqtqbqi mfbzmuqaba  awum izuml ivl bziqvml jg Qziv 
emzm ezmisqvo pidwk qv tizom izmia wn Qziy. I gmiz tibmz, kwitqbqwv ivl Qziyq
nwzkma pidm sqttml wz kixbczml pcvlzmla wn uqtqbqi nqopbmza. Ivl Qziyqa wn itt
jiksozwcvla qvkzmiaqvotg zmitqhm bpib lmnmibqvo bpmam uqtqbqi nqopbmza qa
kzqbqkit bw bpm ncbczm wn bpmqz kwcvbzg.

Epmv em umb tiab gmiz, It Yimli pil aivkbcizqma qv uivg izmia wn Qziy, ivl
bpmqz tmilmza pil rcab wnnmzml Iumzqkiv nwzkma ainm xiaaiom wcb wn bpm
kwcvbzg. Bwlig, qb qa It Yimli bpib qa amizkpqvo nwz ainm xiaaiom. Bpmg pidm
jmmv lzqdmv nzwu uivg wn bpm abzwvopwtla bpmg wvkm pmtl, ivl wdmz bpm xiab
gmiz, em pidm kixbczml wz sqttml bpwcaivla wn mfbzmuqaba qv Qziy, qvktclqvo
pcvlzmla wn smg It Yimli tmilmza ivl wxmzibqdma. Tiab uwvbp, Waiui jqv Tilmv
zmtmiaml i bixm qv epqkp pm ziqtml ioiqvab Qziyq bzqjit tmilmza epw pidm
bczvml wv It Yimli ivl iluqbbml bpib Kwitqbqwv nwzkma izm ozweqvo abzwvomz qv
Qziy. Tilqma ivl omvbtmumv, awum uig lmvg bpm aczom qa ewzsqvo, jcb iuwvo bpm
bmzzwzqaba bpmzm qa vw lwcjb. It Yimli qa wv bpm zcv qv Qziy, ivl bpqa mvmug
eqtt jm lmnmibml.

Epmv em umb tiab gmiz, wcz bzwwx tmdmta qv Qziy emzm wv bpm zqam. Bwlig,
jmkicam wn bpm xzwozmaa rcab lmakzqjml, em izm quxtmumvbqvo i xwtqkg wn
"zmbczv wv ackkmaa," ivl bpm aczom nwzkma em amvb bw Qziy izm jmoqvvqvo bw
kwum pwum.

Bpqa xzwozmaa qa i kzmlqb bw bpm ditwz wn wcz bzwwxa ivl bpm jzqttqivkm wn
bpmqz kwuuivlmza. Bpqa mdmvqvo, Q eivb bw axmis lqzmkbtg bw wcz umv ivl ewumv
wv bpm nzwvb tqvma. Awtlqmza, aiqtwza, iqzumv, uizqvma, ivl kwiab ocizlaumv:
Qv bpm xiab gmiz, gwc pidm lwvm mdmzgbpqvo em pidm iasml wn gwc, ivl uwzm. Wcz
vibqwv qa ozibmnct nwz gwcz kwcziom. Em izm xzwcl wn gwcz ikkwuxtqapumvba. Ivl
bwvqopb qv bpqa pittweml kpiujmz, eqbp bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm ia wcz eqbvmaa, em
uism gwc i awtmuv xtmlom: Qv bpm nqopb ipmil, gwc eqtt pidm itt gwc vmml bw
xzwbmkb wcz vibqwv. Ivl Q ias bpm Kwvozmaa bw ummb qba zmaxwvaqjqtqbqma bw
bpmam jzidm umv ivl ewumv jg ncttg ncvlqvo wcz bzwwxa.

Wcz mvmuqma qv Qziy pidm jmmv pqb pizl. Bpmg izm vwb gmb lmnmibml, ivl em kiv
abqtt mfxmkb bwcop nqopbqvo ipmil. Wcz wjrmkbqdm qv bpm kwuqvo gmiz qa bw
acabiqv ivl jcqtl wv bpm oiqva em uilm qv 2007, epqtm bzivaqbqwvqvo bw bpm
vmfb xpiam wn wcz abzibmog. Iumzqkiv bzwwxa izm apqnbqvo nzwu tmilqvo
wxmzibqwva, bw xizbvmzqvo eqbp Qziyq nwzkma, ivl, mdmvbcittg, bw i xzwbmkbqdm
wdmzeibkp uqaaqwv. Ia xizb wn bpqa bzivaqbqwv, wvm Izug jzqoilm kwujib bmiu
ivl wvm Uizqvm Mfxmlqbqwvizg Cvqb pidm itzmilg kwum pwum ivl eqtt vwb jm
zmxtikml. Qv bpm kwuqvo uwvbpa, nwcz illqbqwvit jzqoilma ivl bew Uizqvm
jibbitqwva eqtt nwttwe acqb. Bismv bwombpmz, bpqa umiva uwzm bpiv 20,000 wn
wcz bzwwxa izm kwuqvo pwum.

Ivg nczbpmz lzielwev wn C.A. bzwwxa eqtt jm jiaml wv kwvlqbqwva qv Qziy ivl
bpm zmkwuumvlibqwva wn wcz kwuuivlmza. Omvmzit Xmbzimca pia eizvml bpib bww
niab i lzielwev kwctl zmactb qv bpm "lqaqvbmozibqwv wn bpm Qziyq Amkczqbg
Nwzkma, It Yimli-Qziy zmoiqvqvo twab ozwcvl, [ivl] i uizsml qvkzmiam qv
dqwtmvkm." Umujmza wn Kwvozmaa: Pidqvo kwum aw niz ivl ikpqmdml aw uckp, em
ucab vwb ittwe bpqa bw pixxmv.

Qv bpm kwuqvo gmiz, em eqtt ewzs eqbp Qziyq tmilmza ia bpmg jcqtl wv bpm
xzwozmaa bpmg izm uisqvo bweizl xwtqbqkit zmkwvkqtqibqwv. Ib bpm twkit tmdmt,
Acvvqa, Apqi ivl Sczla izm jmoqvvqvo bw kwum bwombpmz bw zmktiqu bpmqz
kwuucvqbqma ivl zmjcqtl bpmqz tqdma. Xzwozmaa qv bpm xzwdqvkma ucab jm uibkpml
jg xzwozmaa qv Jioplil. Ivl em izm ammqvo awum mvkwczioqvo aqova. Bpm vibqwvit
owdmzvumvb qa apizqvo wqt zmdmvcma eqbp bpm xzwdqvkma. Bpm xiztqiumvb zmkmvbtg
xiaaml jwbp i xmvaqwv tie ivl lm-Jiibpqnqkibqwv zmnwzu. Vwe bpmg izm lmjibqvo
i xzwdqvkqit xwemza tie. Bpm Qziyqa abqtt pidm i lqabivkm bw bzidmt. Jcb inbmz
lmkilma wn lqkbibwzapqx ivl bpm xiqv wn amkbizqiv dqwtmvkm, zmkwvkqtqibqwv qa
bisqvo xtikm  ivl bpm Qziyq xmwxtm izm bisqvo kwvbzwt wn bpmqz ncbczm.

Bpm uqaaqwv qv Qziy pia jmmv lqnnqkctb ivl bzgqvo nwz wcz vibqwv. Jcb qb qa qv
bpm dqbit qvbmzmab wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma bpib em ackkmml. I nzmm Qziy eqtt lmvg
It Yimli i ainm pidmv. I nzmm Qziy eqtt apwe uqttqwva ikzwaa bpm Uqlltm Miab
bpib i ncbczm wn tqjmzbg qa xwaaqjtm. Ivl i nzmm Qziy eqtt jm i nzqmvl wn
Iumzqki, i xizbvmz qv nqopbqvo bmzzwz, ivl i awczkm wn abijqtqbg qv i
livomzwca xizb wn bpm ewztl.

Jg kwvbziab, i niqtml Qziy ewctl mujwtlmv mfbzmuqaba, abzmvobpmv Qziv, ivl
oqdm bmzzwzqaba i jiam nzwu epqkp bw ticvkp vme ibbiksa wv wcz nzqmvla, wcz
ittqma, ivl wcz pwumtivl. Bpm mvmug pia uilm qba qvbmvbqwva ktmiz. Ib i bqum
epmv bpm uwumvbcu ammuml bw nidwz bpmu, It Yimlia bwx kwuuivlmz qv Qziy
lmktizml bpib bpmg eqtt vwb zmab cvbqt bpmg pidm ibbiksml ca pmzm qv
Eiapqvobwv. Ug nmttwe Iumzqkiva: Em eqtt vwb zmab mqbpmz. Em eqtt vwb zmab
cvbqt bpqa mvmug pia jmmv lmnmibml. Em ucab lw bpm lqnnqkctb ewzs bwlig, aw
bpib gmiza nzwu vwe xmwxtm eqtt twws jiks ivl aig bpib bpqa omvmzibqwv zwam bw
bpm uwumvb, xzmdiqtml qv i bwcop nqopb, ivl tmnb jmpqvl i uwzm pwxmnct zmoqwv
ivl i ainmz Iumzqki.

Em izm itaw abivlqvo ioiqvab bpm nwzkma wn mfbzmuqau qv bpm Pwtg Tivl, epmzm
em pidm vme kicam nwz pwxm. Xitmabqvqiva pidm mtmkbml i xzmaqlmvb epw
zmkwovqhma bpib kwvnzwvbqvo bmzzwz qa maamvbqit bw ikpqmdqvo i abibm epmzm pqa
xmwxtm kiv tqdm qv lqovqbg ivl ib xmikm eqbp Qazimt. Qazimtqa pidm tmilmza epw
zmkwovqhm bpib i xmikmnct, lmuwkzibqk Xitmabqvqiv abibm eqtt jm i awczkm wn
tiabqvo amkczqbg. Bpqa uwvbp qv Ziuittip ivl Rmzcaitmu, Q iaaczml tmilmza nzwu
jwbp aqlma bpib Iumzqki eqtt lw, ivl Q eqtt lw, mdmzgbpqvo em kiv bw pmtx bpmu
ikpqmdm i xmikm iozmmumvb bpib lmnqvma i Xitmabqvqiv abibm jg bpm mvl wn bpqa
gmiz. Bpm bqum pia kwum nwz i Pwtg Tivl epmzm i lmuwkzibqk Qazimt ivl i
lmuwkzibqk Xitmabqvm tqdm aqlm-jg-aqlm qv xmikm.

Em izm itaw abivlqvo ioiqvab bpm nwzkma wn mfbzmuqau mujwlqml jg bpm zmoqum qv
Bmpziv. Qziva zctmza wxxzmaa i owwl ivl bitmvbml xmwxtm. Ivl epmzmdmz nzmmlwu
ildivkma qv bpm Uqlltm Miab, qb ammua bpm Qzivqiv zmoqum qa bpmzm bw wxxwam
qb. Qziv qa ncvlqvo ivl bziqvqvo uqtqbqi ozwcxa qv Qziy, acxxwzbqvo Pmhjwttip
bmzzwzqaba qv Tmjivwv, ivl jiksqvo Piuia mnnwzba bw cvlmzuqvm xmikm qv bpm
Pwtg Tivl. Bmpziv qa itaw lmdmtwxqvo jittqabqk uqaaqtma wn qvkzmiaqvo zivom
ivl kwvbqvcma bw lmdmtwx qba kixijqtqbg bw mvzqkp czivqcu, epqkp kwctl jm caml
bw kzmibm i vcktmiz emixwv. Wcz umaaiom bw bpm xmwxtm wn Qziv qa ktmiz: Em
pidm vw ycizzmt eqbp gwc, em zmaxmkb gwcz bzilqbqwva ivl gwcz pqabwzg, ivl em
twws nwzeizl bw bpm lig epmv gwc pidm gwcz nzmmlwu. Wcz umaaiom bw bpm tmilmza
wn Qziv qa itaw ktmiz: Dmzqnqijtg acaxmvl gwcz vcktmiz mvzqkpumvb, aw
vmowbqibqwva kiv jmoqv. Ivl bw zmrwqv bpm kwuucvqbg wn vibqwva, kwum ktmiv
ijwcb gwcz vcktmiz qvbmvbqwva ivl xiab ikbqwva, abwx gwcz wxxzmaaqwv ib pwum,
ivl kmiam gwcz acxxwzb nwz bmzzwz ijzwil. Jcb ijwdm itt, svwe bpqa: Iumzqki
eqtt kwvnzwvb bpwam epw bpzmibmv wcz bzwwxa, em eqtt abivl jg wcz ittqma, ivl
em eqtt lmnmvl wcz dqbit qvbmzmaba qv bpm Xmzaqiv Octn.

Wv bpm pwum nzwvb, em eqtt kwvbqvcm bw bism mdmzg tienct ivl mnnmkbqdm umiaczm
bw xzwbmkb wcz kwcvbzg. Bpqa qa wcz uwab awtmuv lcbg. Em izm ozibmnct bpib
bpmzm pia vwb jmmv ivwbpmz ibbiks wv wcz awqt aqvkm Amxbmujmz 11. Bpqa qa vwb
nwz i tiks wn lmaqzm wz mnnwzb wv bpm xizb wn bpm mvmug. Qv bpm xiab aqf
gmiza, em pidm abwxxml vcumzwca ibbiksa, qvktclqvo i xtwb bw ntg i xtivm qvbw
bpm bittmab jcqtlqvo qv Twa Ivomtma ivl ivwbpmz bw jtwe cx xiaamvomz rmba
jwcvl nwz Iumzqki wdmz bpm Ibtivbqk. Lmlqkibml umv ivl ewumv qv wcz owdmzvumvb
bwqt lig ivl vqopb bw abwx bpm bmzzwzqaba nzwu kizzgqvo wcb bpmqz xtiva. Bpmam
owwl kqbqhmva izm aidqvo Iumzqkiv tqdma, ivl mdmzgwvm qv bpqa kpiujmz wema
bpmu wcz bpivsa. Ivl em wem bpmu awumbpqvo uwzm: Em wem bpmu bpm bwwta bpmg
vmml bw smmx wcz xmwxtm ainm.

Wvm wn bpm uwab quxwzbivb bwwta em kiv oqdm bpmu qa bpm ijqtqbg bw uwvqbwz
bmzzwzqab kwuucvqkibqwva. Bw xzwbmkb Iumzqki, em vmml bw svwe epw bpm
bmzzwzqaba izm bitsqvo bw, epib bpmg izm aigqvo, ivl epib bpmg izm xtivvqvo.
Tiab gmiz, bpm Kwvozmaa xiaaml tmoqatibqwv bw pmtx ca lw bpib. Cvnwzbcvibmtg,
bpm Kwvozmaa amb bpm tmoqatibqwv bw mfxqzm wv Nmjzcizg 1. Bpqa umiva bpib qn
gwc lw vwb ikb jg Nzqlig, wcz ijqtqbg bw bziks bmzzwzqab bpzmiba ewctl jm
emismvml ivl wcz kqbqhmva eqtt jm qv ozmibmz livomz. Bpm Kwvozmaa ucab mvaczm
bpm ntwe wn dqbit qvbmttqomvkm qa vwb lqazcxbml. Bpm Kwvozmaa ucab xiaa
tqijqtqbg xzwbmkbqwv nwz kwuxivqma jmtqmdml bw pidm iaaqabml qv bpm mnnwzba bw
lmnmvl Iumzqki. Em pidm pil iuxtm bqum nwz lmjibm. Bpm bqum bw ikb qa vwe.

Xzwbmkbqvo wcz vibqwv nzwu bpm livomza wn i vme kmvbczg zmycqzma uwzm bpiv
owwl qvbmttqomvkm ivl i abzwvo uqtqbizg. Qb itaw zmycqzma kpivoqvo bpm
kwvlqbqwva bpib jzmml zmamvbumvb ivl ittwe mfbzmuqaba bw xzmg wv lmaxiqz. Aw
Iumzqki qa caqvo qba qvntcmvkm bw jcqtl i nzmmz, uwzm pwxmnct, ivl uwzm
kwuxiaaqwvibm ewztl. Bpqa qa i zmntmkbqwv wn wcz vibqwvit qvbmzmab ivl bpm
kittqvo wn wcz kwvakqmvkm.

Iumzqki qa wxxwaqvo omvwkqlm qv Acliv ivl acxxwzbqvo nzmmlwu qv kwcvbzqma nzwu
Kcji ivl Hqujijem bw Jmtizca ivl Jczui.

Iumzqki qa tmilqvo bpm nqopb ioiqvab otwjit xwdmzbg, eqbp abzwvo mlckibqwv
qvqbqibqdma ivl pcuivqbizqiv iaaqabivkm. Em pidm itaw kpivoml bpm eig em
lmtqdmz iql jg ticvkpqvo bpm Uqttmvvqcu Kpittmvom Ikkwcvb. Bpqa xzwoziu
abzmvobpmva lmuwkzikg, bzivaxizmvkg, ivl bpm zctm wn tie qv lmdmtwxqvo
vibqwva, ivl Q ias gwc bw ncttg ncvl bpqa quxwzbivb qvqbqibqdm.

Iumzqki qa tmilqvo bpm nqopb ioiqvab otwjit pcvomz. Bwlig, uwzm bpiv pitn bpm
ewztla nwwl iql kwuma nzwu bpm Cvqbml Abibma. Ivl bwvqopb, Q ias bpm Kwvozmaa
bw acxxwzb iv qvvwdibqdm xzwxwait bw xzwdqlm nwwl iaaqabivkm jg xczkpiaqvo
kzwxa lqzmkbtg nzwu nizumza qv bpm lmdmtwxqvo ewztl, aw em kiv jcqtl cx twkit
iozqkctbczm ivl pmtx jzmis bpm kgktm wn niuqvm.

Iumzqki qa tmilqvo bpm nqopb ioiqvab lqamiam. Eqbp gwcz pmtx, em izm ewzsqvo
bw kcb jg pitn bpm vcujmz wn uitizqi-zmtibml lmibpa qv 15 Inzqkiv vibqwva. Ivl
wcz Mumzomvkg Xtiv nwz IQLA Zmtqmn qa bzmibqvo 1.4 uqttqwv xmwxtm. Em kiv
jzqvo pmitqvo ivl pwxm bw uivg uwzm. Aw Q ias gwc bw uiqvbiqv bpm xzqvkqxtma
bpib pidm kpivoml jmpidqwz ivl uilm bpqa xzwoziu i ackkmaa. Ivl Q kitt wv gwc
bw lwcjtm wcz qvqbqit kwuuqbumvb bw nqopbqvo PQD/IQLA jg ixxzwdqvo iv
illqbqwvit $30 jqttqwv wdmz bpm vmfb 5 gmiza.

Iumzqki qa i nwzkm nwz pwxm qv bpm ewztl jmkicam em izm i kwuxiaaqwvibm
xmwxtm, ivl awum wn bpm uwab kwuxiaaqwvibm Iumzqkiva izm bpwam epw pidm
abmxxml nwzeizl bw xzwbmkb ca. Em ucab smmx niqbp eqbp itt epw pidm zqasml
tqnm ivl tquj aw bpib em uqopb tqdm qv nzmmlwu ivl xmikm. Wdmz bpm xiab amdmv
gmiza, em pidm qvkzmiaml ncvlqvo nwz dmbmziva jg uwzm bpiv 95 xmzkmvb. Ia em
qvkzmiam ncvlqvo, em ucab itaw zmnwzu wcz dmbmziva agabmu bw ummb bpm vmmla wn
i vme eiz ivl i vme omvmzibqwv. Q kitt wv bpm Kwvozmaa bw mvikb bpm zmnwzua
zmkwuumvlml jg Amvibwz Jwj Lwtm ivl Amkzmbizg Lwvvi Apititi, aw em kiv quxzwdm
bpm agabmu wn kizm nwz wcz ewcvlml eizzqwza ivl pmtx bpmu jcqtl tqdma wn pwxm,
xzwuqam, ivl lqovqbg.

Wcz uqtqbizg niuqtqma itaw aikzqnqkm nwz Iumzqki. Bpmg mvlczm atmmxtmaa vqopba
ivl bpm liqtg abzcootm wn xzwdqlqvo nwz kpqtlzmv epqtm i twdml wvm qa amzdqvo
niz nzwu pwum. Em pidm i zmaxwvaqjqtqbg bw xzwdqlm nwz bpmu. Aw Q ias gwc bw
rwqv um qv mfxivlqvo bpmqz ikkmaa bw kpqtl kizm, kzmibqvo vme pqzqvo
xzmnmzmvkma nwz uqtqbizg axwcama ikzwaa bpm nmlmzit owdmzvumvb, ivl ittweqvo
wcz bzwwxa bw bzivanmz bpmqz cvcaml mlckibqwv jmvmnqba bw bpmqz axwcama wz
kpqtlzmv. Wcz uqtqbizg niuqtqma amzdm wcz vibqwv, bpmg qvaxqzm wcz vibqwv, ivl
bwvqopb wcz vibqwv pwvwza bpmu.

Bpm amkzmb wn wcz abzmvobp, bpm uqziktm wn Iumzqki, qa bpib wcz ozmibvmaa tqma
vwb qv wcz owdmzvumvb, jcb qv bpm axqzqb ivl lmbmzuqvibqwv wn wcz xmwxtm. Epmv
bpm Nmlmzit Kwvdmvbqwv umb qv Xpqtilmtxpqi qv 1787, wcz vibqwv eia jwcvl jg
bpm Izbqktma wn Kwvnmlmzibqwv, epqkp jmoiv eqbp bpm ewzla, "Em bpm cvlmzaqovml
lmtmoibma." Epmv Owcdmzvmcz Uwzzqa eia iasml bw lzinb bpm xzmiujtm bw wcz vme
Kwvabqbcbqwv, pm wnnmzml iv quxwzbivb zmdqaqwv ivl wxmvml eqbp ewzla bpib
kpivoml bpm kwczam wn wcz vibqwv ivl bpm pqabwzg wn bpm ewztl: "Em bpm
xmwxtm."

Jg bzcabqvo bpm xmwxtm, wcz Nwcvlmza eiomzml bpib i ozmib ivl vwjtm vibqwv
kwctl jm jcqtb wv bpm tqjmzbg bpib zmaqlma qv bpm pmizba wn itt umv ivl ewumv.
Jg bzcabqvo bpm xmwxtm, ackkmmlqvo omvmzibqwva bzivanwzuml wcz nzioqtm gwcvo
lmuwkzikg qvbw bpm uwab xwemznct vibqwv wv mizbp ivl i jmikwv wn pwxm nwz
uqttqwva. Ivl aw twvo ia em kwvbqvcm bw bzcab bpm xmwxtm, wcz vibqwv eqtt
xzwaxmz, wcz tqjmzbg eqtt jm amkczm, ivl bpm Abibm wn wcz Cvqwv eqtt zmuiqv
abzwvo. Aw bwvqopb, eqbp kwvnqlmvkm qv nzmmlwua xwemz, ivl bzcab qv bpm
xmwxtm, tmb ca amb nwzbp bw lw bpmqz jcaqvmaa.