Uz. Axmismz, Dqkm Xzmaqlmvb Kpmvmg, Umujmza wn Kwvozmaa, lqabqvocqapml kqbqhmva
ivl nmttwe kqbqhmva: Mdmzg gmiz, jg tie ivl jg kcabwu, em ummb pmzm bw kwvaqlmz
bpm abibm wn bpm Cvqwv. Bpqa gmiz, em oibpmz qv bpqa Kpiujmz lmmxtg ieizm wn
lmkqaqdm liga bpib tqm ipmil.

Gwc ivl Q amzdm wcz kwcvbzg qv i bqum wn ozmib kwvamycmvkm. Lczqvo bpqa amaaqwv
wn Kwvozmaa, em pidm bpm lcbg bw zmnwzu lwumabqk xzwoziua dqbit bw wcz kwcvbzg.
Em pidm bpm wxxwzbcvqbg bw aidm uqttqwva wn tqdma ijzwil nzwu i bmzzqjtm
lqamiam. Em eqtt ewzs nwz i xzwaxmzqbg bpib qa jzwiltg apizml, ivl em eqtt
ivaemz mdmzg livomz ivl mdmzg mvmug bpib bpzmibmva bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm.

Qv itt bpmam liga wn xzwuqam ivl liga wn zmkswvqvo, em kiv jm kwvnqlmvb. Qv i
epqzteqvl wn kpivom ivl pwxm ivl xmzqt, wcz niqbp qa aczm; wcz zmawtdm qa nqzu;
ivl wcz Cvqwv qa abzwvo.

Bpqa kwcvbzg pia uivg kpittmvoma. Em eqtt vwb lmvg, em eqtt vwb qovwzm, em eqtt
vwb xiaa itwvo wcz xzwjtmua bw wbpmz Kwvozmaama, bw wbpmz Xzmaqlmvba, ivl wbpmz
omvmzibqwva. Em eqtt kwvnzwvb bpmu eqbp nwkca ivl ktizqbg ivl kwcziom.

Lczqvo bpm tiab 2 gmiza, em pidm ammv epib kiv jm ikkwuxtqapml epmv em ewzs
bwombpmz. Bw tqnb bpm abivlizla wn wcz xcjtqk akpwwta, em ikpqmdml pqabwzqk
mlckibqwv zmnwzu, epqkp ucab vwe jm kizzqml wcb qv mdmzg akpwwt ivl qv mdmzg
ktiaazwwu aw bpib mdmzg kpqtl qv Iumzqki kiv zmil ivl tmizv ivl ackkmml qv tqnm.
Bw xzwbmkb wcz kwcvbzg, em zmwzoivqhml wcz Owdmzvumvb ivl kzmibml bpm Lmxizbumvb
wn Pwumtivl Amkczqbg, epqkp qa uwjqtqhqvo ioiqvab bpm bpzmiba wn i vme mzi. Bw
jzqvo wcz mkwvwug wcb wn zmkmaaqwv, em lmtqdmzml bpm tizomab bif zmtqmn qv i
omvmzibqwv. Bw qvaqab wv qvbmozqbg qv Iumzqkiv jcaqvmaa, em xiaaml bwcop
zmnwzua, ivl em izm pwtlqvo kwzxwzibm kzquqvita bw ikkwcvb.

Awum uqopb kitt bpqa i owwl zmkwzl. Q kitt qb i owwl abizb. Bwvqopb Q ias bpm
Pwcam ivl bpm Amvibm bw rwqv um qv bpm vmfb jwtl abmxa bw amzdm wcz nmttwe
kqbqhmva.

Wcz nqzab owit qa ktmiz: Em ucab pidm iv mkwvwug bpib ozwea niab mvwcop bw
muxtwg mdmzg uiv ivl ewuiv epw ammsa i rwj. Inbmz zmkmaaqwv, bmzzwzqab ibbiksa,
kwzxwzibm akivlita, ivl abwks uizsmb lmktqvma, wcz mkwvwug qa zmkwdmzqvo. Gmb,
qb'a vwb ozweqvo niab mvwcop wz abzwvotg mvwcop. Eqbp cvmuxtwgumvb zqaqvo, wcz
Vibqwv vmmla uwzm auitt jcaqvmaama bw wxmv, uwzm kwuxivqma bw qvdmab ivl mfxivl,
uwzm muxtwgmza bw xcb cx bpm aqov bpib aiga, "Pmtx Eivbml." Rwja izm kzmibml
epmv bpm mkwvwug ozwea. Bpm mkwvwug ozwea epmv Iumzqkiva pidm uwzm uwvmg bw
axmvl ivl qvdmab, ivl bpm jmab ivl niqzmab eig bw uism aczm Iumzqkiva pidm bpib
uwvmg qa vwb bw bif qb ieig qv bpm nqzab xtikm.

Q iu xzwxwaqvo bpib itt bpm qvkwum-bif zmlckbqwva amb nwz 2004 ivl 2006 jm uilm
xmzuivmvb ivl mnnmkbqdm bpqa gmiz. Ivl cvlmz ug xtiv, ia awwv ia Q'dm aqovml bpm
jqtt, bpqa mfbzi uwvmg eqtt abizb apweqvo cx qv ewzsmza' xigkpmksa. Qvabmil wn
ozilcittg zmlckqvo bpm uizzqiom xmvitbg, em apwctl lw qb vwe. Qvabmil wn atwetg
ziqaqvo bpm kpqtl kzmlqb bw $1,000, em apwctl amvl bpm kpmksa bw Iumzqkiv
niuqtqma vwe.

Bpm bif zmtqmn qa nwz mdmzgwvm epw xiga qvkwum bifma, ivl qb eqtt pmtx wcz
mkwvwug quumlqibmtg: 92 uqttqwv Iumzqkiva eqtt smmx, bpqa gmiz, iv idmziom wn
ituwab $1,100 uwzm wn bpmqz wev uwvmg; i niuqtg wn 4 eqbp iv qvkwum wn $40,000
ewctl amm bpmqz Nmlmzit qvkwum bifma nitt nzwu $1,178 bw $45 xmz gmiz; wcz xtiv
eqtt quxzwdm bpm jwbbwu tqvm nwz uwzm bpiv 23 uqttqwv auitt jcaqvmaama.

Gwc, bpm Kwvozmaa, pidm itzmilg xiaaml itt bpmam zmlckbqwva ivl xzwuqaml bpmu
nwz ncbczm gmiza. Qn bpqa bif zmtqmn qa owwl nwz Iumzqkiva 3, wz 5, wz 7 gmiza
nzwu vwe, qb qa mdmv jmbbmz nwz Iumzqkiva bwlig.

Em apwctl itaw abzmvobpmv bpm mkwvwug jg bzmibqvo qvdmabwza mycittg qv wcz bif
tiea. Qb'a niqz bw bif i kwuxivg'a xzwnqba. Qb qa vwb niqz bw ioiqv bif bpm
apizmpwtlmz wv bpm aium xzwnqba. Bw jwwab qvdmabwz kwvnqlmvkm ivl bw pmtx bpm
vmiztg 10 uqttqwv amvqwza epw zmkmqdm lqdqlmvl qvkwum, Q ias gwc bw mvl bpm
cvniqz lwcjtm bifibqwv wn lqdqlmvla.

Twemz bifma ivl ozmibmz qvdmabumvb eqtt pmtx bpqa mkwvwug mfxivl. Uwzm rwja umiv
uwzm bifxigmza ivl pqopmz zmdmvcma bw wcz Owdmzvumvb. Bpm jmab eig bw illzmaa
bpm lmnqkqb ivl uwdm bweizl i jitivkml jclomb qa bw mvkwcziom mkwvwuqk ozwebp
ivl bw apwe awum axmvlqvo lqakqxtqvm qv Eiapqvobwv, LK.

Em ucab ewzs bwombpmz bw ncvl wvtg wcz uwab quxwzbivb xzqwzqbqma. Q eqtt amvl
gwc i jclomb bpib qvkzmiama lqakzmbqwvizg axmvlqvo jg 4 xmzkmvb vmfb gmiz, ijwcb
ia uckp ia bpm idmziom niuqtg'a qvkwum qa mfxmkbml bw ozwe. Ivl bpib qa i owwl
jmvkpuizs nwz ca. Nmlmzit axmvlqvo apwctl vwb zqam ivg niabmz bpiv bpm xigkpmksa
wn Iumzqkiv niuqtqma.

I ozweqvo mkwvwug ivl i nwkca wv maamvbqit xzqwzqbqma eqtt jm kzckqit bw bpm
ncbczm wn Awkqit Amkczqbg. Ia em kwvbqvcm bw ewzs bwombpmz bw smmx Awkqit
Amkczqbg awcvl ivl zmtqijtm, em ucab wnnmz gwcvomz ewzsmza i kpivkm bw qvdmab qv
zmbqzmumvb ikkwcvba bpib bpmg eqtt kwvbzwt ivl bpmg eqtt wev.

Wcz amkwvl owit qa pqop ycitqbg, innwzlijtm pmitbp nwz itt Iumzqkiva. Bpm
Iumzqkiv agabmu wn umlqkqvm qa i uwlmt wn asqtt ivl qvvwdibqwv, eqbp i xikm wn
lqakwdmzg bpib qa illqvo owwl gmiza bw wcz tqdma. Gmb nwz uivg xmwxtm, umlqkit
kizm kwaba bww uckp, ivl uivg pidm vw pmitbp kwdmziom ib itt. Bpmam xzwjtmua
eqtt vwb jm awtdml eqbp i vibqwvitqhml pmitbp kizm agabmu bpib lqkbibma kwdmziom
ivl zibqwva kizm.

Qvabmil, em ucab ewzs bweizl i agabmu qv epqkp itt Iumzqkiva pidm i owwl
qvaczivkm xwtqkg, kpwwam bpmqz wev lwkbwza, ivl amvqwza ivl twe- qvkwum
Iumzqkiva zmkmqdm bpm pmtx bpmg vmml. Qvabmil wn jczmickziba ivl bzqit tiegmza
ivl PUWa, em ucab xcb lwkbwza ivl vczama ivl xibqmvba jiks qv kpizom wn Iumzqkiv
umlqkqvm.

Pmitbp kizm zmnwzu ucab jmoqv eqbp Umlqkizm. Umlqkizm qa bpm jqvlqvo kwuuqbumvb
wn i kizqvo awkqmbg. Em ucab zmvme bpib kwuuqbumvb jg oqdqvo amvqwza ikkmaa bw
xzmdmvbqdm umlqkqvm ivl vme lzcoa bpib izm bzivanwzuqvo pmitbp kizm qv Iumzqki.

Amvqwza pixxg eqbp bpm kczzmvb Umlqkizm agabmu apwctl jm ijtm bw smmx bpmqz
kwdmziom rcab bpm eig qb qa. Ivl rcab tqsm gwc, bpm Umujmza wn Kwvozmaa, ivl
gwcz abinna ivl wbpmz Nmlmzit muxtwgmma, itt amvqwza apwctl pidm bpm kpwqkm wn i
pmitbp kizm xtiv bpib xzwdqlma xzmakzqxbqwv lzcoa.

Ug jclomb eqtt kwuuqb iv illqbqwvit $400 jqttqwv wdmz bpm vmfb lmkilm bw zmnwzu
ivl abzmvobpmv Umlqkizm. Tmilmza wn jwbp xwtqbqkit xizbqma pidm bitsml nwz gmiza
ijwcb abzmvobpmvqvo Umlqkizm. Q czom bpm Umujmza wn bpqa vme Kwvozmaa bw ikb
bpqa gmiz.

Bw quxzwdm wcz pmitbp kizm agabmu, em ucab illzmaa wvm wn bpm xzqum kicama wn
pqopmz kwab, bpm kwvabivb bpzmib bpib xpgaqkqiva ivl pwaxqbita eqtt jm cvniqztg
acml. Jmkicam wn mfkmaaqdm tqbqoibqwv, mdmzgjwlg xiga uwzm nwz pmitbp kizm, ivl
uivg xizba wn Iumzqki izm twaqvo nqvm lwkbwza. Vw wvm pia mdmz jmmv pmitml jg i
nzqdwtwca tieacqb. Q czom bpm Kwvozmaa bw xiaa umlqkit tqijqtqbg zmnwzu.

Wcz bpqzl owit qa bw xzwuwbm mvmzog qvlmxmvlmvkm nwz wcz kwcvbzg, epqtm
lziuibqkittg quxzwdqvo bpm mvdqzwvumvb. Q pidm amvb gwc i kwuxzmpmvaqdm mvmzog
xtiv bw xzwuwbm mvmzog mnnqkqmvkg ivl kwvamzdibqwv, bw lmdmtwx ktmivmz
bmkpvwtwog, ivl bw xzwlckm uwzm mvmzog ib pwum. Q pidm amvb gwc Ktmiz Asqma
tmoqatibqwv bpib uivlibma i 70-xmzkmvb kcb qv iqz xwttcbqwv nzwu xwemzxtivba
wdmz bpm vmfb 15 gmiza. Q pidm amvb gwc i Pmitbpg Nwzmaba Qvqbqibqdm, bw pmtx
xzmdmvb bpm kibiabzwxpqk nqzma bpib lmdiabibm kwuucvqbqma, sqtt eqtltqnm, ivl
jczv ieig uqttqwva wn ikzma wn bzmiaczml nwzmaba.

Q czom gwc bw xiaa bpmam umiaczma, nwz bpm owwl wn jwbp wcz mvdqzwvumvb ivl wcz
mkwvwug. Mdmv uwzm, Q ias gwc bw bism i kzckqit abmx ivl xzwbmkb wcz mvdqzwvumvb
qv eiga bpib omvmzibqwva jmnwzm ca kwctl vwb pidm quioqvml.

Qv bpqa kmvbczg, bpm ozmibmab mvdqzwvumvbit xzwozmaa eqtt kwum ijwcb vwb bpzwcop
mvltmaa tieacqba wz kwuuivl-ivl-kwvbzwt zmoctibqwva jcb bpzwcop bmkpvwtwog ivl
qvvwdibqwv. Bwvqopb Q'u xzwxwaqvo $1.2 jqttqwv qv zmamizkp ncvlqvo aw bpib
Iumzqki kiv tmil bpm ewztl qv lmdmtwxqvo ktmiv, pglzwomv-xwemzml icbwuwjqtma.

I aquxtm kpmuqkit zmikbqwv jmbemmv pglzwomv ivl wfgomv omvmzibma mvmzog, epqkp
kiv jm caml bw xwemz i kiz, xzwlckqvo wvtg eibmz, vwb mfpicab ncuma. Eqbp i vme
vibqwvit kwuuqbumvb, wcz akqmvbqaba ivl mvoqvmmza eqtt wdmzkwum wjabiktma bw
bisqvo bpmam kiza nzwu tijwzibwzg bw apwezwwu, aw bpib bpm nqzab kiz lzqdmv jg i
kpqtl jwzv bwlig kwctl jm xwemzml jg pglzwomv ivl xwttcbqwv-nzmm. Rwqv um qv
bpqa quxwzbivb qvvwdibqwv bw uism wcz iqz aqovqnqkivbtg ktmivmz ivl wcz kwcvbzg
uckp tmaa lmxmvlmvb wv nwzmqov awczkma wn mvmzog.

Wcz nwczbp owit qa bw ixxtg bpm kwuxiaaqwv wn Iumzqki bw bpm lmmxmab xzwjtmua wn
Iumzqki. Nwz aw uivg qv wcz kwcvbzg, bpm pwumtmaa ivl bpm nibpmztmaa, bpm
illqkbml, bpm vmml qa ozmib. Gmb bpmzm'a xwemz, ewvlmz- ewzsqvo xwemz, qv bpm
owwlvmaa ivl qlmitqau ivl niqbp wn bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm.

Iumzqkiva izm lwqvo bpm ewzs wn kwuxiaaqwv mdmzg lig, dqaqbqvo xzqawvmza,
xzwdqlqvo apmtbmz nwz jibbmzml ewumv, jzqvoqvo kwuxivqwvapqx bw twvmtg amvqwza.
Bpmam owwl ewzsa lmamzdm wcz xziqam. Bpmg lmamzdm wcz xmzawvit acxxwzb, ivl epmv
ixxzwxzqibm, bpmg lmamzdm bpm iaaqabivkm wn bpm Nmlmzit Owdmzvumvb.

Q czom gwc bw xiaa jwbp ug Niqbp-Jiaml Qvqbqibqdm ivl bpm Kqbqhmv Amzdqkm Ikb,
bw mvkwcziom ikba wn kwuxiaaqwv bpib kiv bzivanwzu Iumzqki, wvm pmizb ivl wvm
awct ib i bqum.

Tiab gmiz, Q kittml wv ug nmttwe kqbqhmva bw xizbqkqxibm qv bpm CAI Nzmmlwu
Kwzxa, epqkp qa mvtqabqvo bmva wn bpwcaivla wn vme dwtcvbmmza ikzwaa Iumzqki.
Bwvqopb Q ias Kwvozmaa ivl bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm bw nwkca bpm axqzqb wn amzdqkm
ivl bpm zmawczkma wn Owdmzvumvb wv bpm vmmla wn awum wn wcz uwab dctvmzijtm
kqbqhmva, jwga ivl oqzta bzgqvo bw ozwe cx eqbpwcb ocqlivkm ivl ibbmvbqwv ivl
kpqtlzmv epw pidm bw ow bpzwcop i xzqawv oibm bw jm pcooml jg bpmqz uwu wz lil.
Q xzwxwam i $450 uqttqwv qvqbqibqdm bw jzqvo umvbwza bw uwzm bpiv i uqttqwv
lqaildivbioml rcvqwz pqop abclmvba ivl kpqtlzmv wn xzqawvmza. Owdmzvumvb eqtt
acxxwzb bpm bziqvqvo ivl zmkzcqbqvo wn umvbwza. Gmb qb qa bpm umv ivl ewumv wn
Iumzqki epw eqtt nqtt bpm vmml. Wvm umvbwz, wvm xmzawv kiv kpivom i tqnm
nwzmdmz, ivl Q czom gwc bw jm bpib wvm xmzawv.

Ivwbpmz kicam wn pwxmtmaavmaa qa illqkbqwv bw lzcoa. Illqkbqwv kzwela wcb
nzqmvlapqx, iujqbqwv, uwzit kwvdqkbqwv ivl zmlckma itt bpm zqkpvmaa wn tqnm bw i
aqvotm lmabzckbqdm lmaqzm. Ia i owdmzvumvb, em izm nqopbqvo qttmoit lzcoa jg
kcbbqvo wnn acxxtqma ivl zmlckqvo lmuivl bpzwcop ivbqlzco mlckibqwv xzwoziua.
Gmb nwz bpwam itzmilg illqkbml, bpm nqopb ioiqvab lzcoa qa i nqopb nwz bpmqz wev
tqdma. Bww uivg Iumzqkiva qv amizkp wn bzmibumvb kivvwb omb qb. Aw bwvqopb Q
xzwxwam i vme $600 uqttqwv xzwoziu bw pmtx iv illqbqwvit 300,000 Iumzqkiva
zmkmqdm bzmibumvb wdmz bpm vmfb 3 gmiza.

Wcz Vibqwv qa jtmaaml eqbp zmkwdmzg xzwoziua bpib lw iuihqvo ewzs. Wvm wn bpmu
qa nwcvl ib bpm Pmitqvo Xtikm Kpczkp qv Jibwv Zwcom, Twcqaqivi. I uiv qv bpm
xzwoziu aiql, "Owl lwma uqziktma qv xmwxtm'a tqdma, ivl gwc vmdmz bpqvs qb
kwctl jm gwc." Bwvqopb tmb ca jzqvo bw itt Iumzqkiva epw abzcootm eqbp lzco
illqkbqwv bpqa umaaiom wn pwxm: Bpm uqziktm wn zmkwdmzg qa xwaaqjtm, ivl qb
kwctl jm gwc.

Jg kizqvo nwz kpqtlzmv epw vmml umvbwza ivl nwz illqkbml umv ivl ewumv epw vmml
bzmibumvb, em izm jcqtlqvo i uwzm emtkwuqvo awkqmbg, i kctbczm bpib ditcma mdmzg
tqnm. Ivl qv bpqa ewzs, em ucab vwb wdmztwws bpm emismab iuwvo ca. Q ias gwc bw
xzwbmkb qvnivba ib bpm dmzg pwcz wn bpmqz jqzbp ivl mvl bpm xzikbqkm wn
xizbqit-jqzbp ijwzbqwv. Ivl jmkicam vw pcuiv tqnm apwctl jm abizbml wz mvlml ia
bpm wjrmkb wn iv mfxmzqumvb, Q ias gwc bw amb i pqop abivlizl nwz pcuivqbg ivl
xiaa i tie ioiqvab itt pcuiv ktwvqvo.

Bpm ycitqbqma wn kwcziom ivl kwuxiaaqwv bpib em abzqdm nwz qv Iumzqki itaw
lmbmzuqvm wcz kwvlckb ijzwil. Bpm Iumzqkiv ntio abivla nwz uwzm bpiv wcz xwemz
ivl wcz qvbmzmaba. Wcz Nwcvlmza lmlqkibml bpqa kwcvbzg bw bpm kicam wn pcuiv
lqovqbg, bpm zqopba wn mdmzg xmzawv, ivl bpm xwaaqjqtqbqma wn mdmzg tqnm. Bpqa
kwvdqkbqwv tmila ca qvbw bpm ewztl bw pmtx bpm inntqkbml ivl lmnmvl bpm xmikm
ivl kwvnwcvl bpm lmaqova wn mdqt umv.

Qv Inopivqabiv, em pmtxml bw tqjmzibm iv wxxzmaaml xmwxtm. Ivl em eqtt kwvbqvcm
pmtxqvo bpmu amkczm bpmqz kwcvbzg, zmjcqtl bpmqz awkqmbg, ivl mlckibm itt bpmqz
kpqtlzmv, jwga ivl oqzta. Qv bpm Uqlltm Miab, em eqtt kwvbqvcm bw amms xmikm
jmbemmv i amkczm Qazimt ivl i lmuwkzibqk Xitmabqvm. Ikzwaa bpm Mizbp, Iumzqki qa
nmmlqvo bpm pcvozg. Uwzm bpiv 60 xmzkmvb wn qvbmzvibqwvit nwwl iql kwuma ia i
oqnb nzwu bpm xmwxtm wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma. Ia wcz Vibqwv uwdma bzwwxa ivl jcqtla
ittqivkma bw uism wcz ewztl ainmz, em ucab itaw zmumujmz wcz kittqvo ia i
jtmaaml kwcvbzg qa bw uism bpm ewztl jmbbmz.

Bwlig, wv bpm kwvbqvmvb wn Inzqki, vmiztg 30 uqttqwv xmwxtm pidm bpm IQLA dqzca,
qvktclqvo 3 uqttqwv kpqtlzmv cvlmz bpm iom 15. Bpmzm izm epwtm kwcvbzqma qv
Inzqki epmzm uwzm bpiv wvm-bpqzl wn bpm ilctb xwxctibqwv kizzqma bpm qvnmkbqwv.
Uwzm bpiv 4 uqttqwv zmycqzm quumlqibm lzco bzmibumvb. Gmb ikzwaa bpib kwvbqvmvb,
wvtg 50,000 IQLA dqkbqua-- wvtg 50,000--izm zmkmqdqvo bpm umlqkqvm bpmg vmml.

Jmkicam bpm IQLA lqiovwaqa qa kwvaqlmzml i lmibp amvbmvkm, uivg lw vwb amms
bzmibumvb. Ituwab itt epw lw izm bczvml ieig. I lwkbwz qv zczit Awcbp Inzqki
lmakzqjma pqa nzcabzibqwv. Pm aiga, "Em pidm vw umlqkqvma. Uivg pwaxqbita bmtt
xmwxtm, 'Gwc'dm owb IQLA. Em kiv'b pmtx gwc. Ow pwum ivl lqm.' " Qv iv iom wn
uqzikctwca umlqkqvma, vw xmzawv apwctl pidm bw pmiz bpwam ewzla.

IQLA kiv jm xzmdmvbml. Ivbqzmbzwdqzit lzcoa kiv mfbmvl tqnm nwz uivg gmiza. Ivl
bpm kwab wn bpwam lzcoa pia lzwxxml nzwu $12,000 i gmiz bw cvlmz $300 i gmiz,
epqkp xtikma i bzmumvlwca xwaaqjqtqbg eqbpqv wcz oziax. Tilqma ivl omvbtmumv,
amtlwu pia pqabwzg wnnmzml i ozmibmz wxxwzbcvqbg bw lw aw uckp nwz aw uivg.

Em pidm kwvnzwvbml ivl eqtt kwvbqvcm bw kwvnzwvb PQD/IQLA qv wcz wev kwcvbzg.
Ivl bw ummb i amdmzm ivl czomvb kzqaqa ijzwil, bwvqopb Q xzwxwam bpm Mumzomvkg
Xtiv nwz IQLA Zmtqmn, i ewzs wn umzkg jmgwvl itt kczzmvb qvbmzvibqwvit mnnwzba
bw pmtx bpm xmwxtm wn Inzqki. Bpqa kwuxzmpmvaqdm xtiv eqtt xzmdmvb 7 uqttqwv vme
IQLA qvnmkbqwva, bzmib ib tmiab 2 uqttqwv xmwxtm eqbp tqnm-mfbmvlqvo lzcoa, ivl
xzwdqlm pcuivm kizm nwz uqttqwva wn xmwxtm acnnmzqvo nzwu IQLA ivl nwz kpqtlzmv
wzxpivml jg IQLA. Q ias bpm Kwvozmaa bw kwuuqb $15 jqttqwv wdmz bpm vmfb 5
gmiza, qvktclqvo vmiztg $10 jqttqwv qv vme uwvmg, bw bczv bpm bqlm ioiqvab IQLA
qv bpm uwab inntqkbml vibqwva wn Inzqki ivl bpm Kizqjjmiv.

Bpqa Vibqwv kiv tmil bpm ewztl qv axizqvo qvvwkmvb xmwxtm nzwu i xtiocm wn
vibczm. Ivl bpqa Vibqwv qa tmilqvo bpm ewztl qv kwvnzwvbqvo ivl lmnmibqvo bpm
uivuilm mdqt wn qvbmzvibqwvit bmzzwzqau.

Bpmzm izm liga epmv wcz nmttwe kqbqhmva lw vwb pmiz vmea ijwcb bpm eiz wv
bmzzwz. Bpmzm'a vmdmz i lig epmv Q lw vwb tmizv wn ivwbpmz bpzmib wz zmkmqdm
zmxwzba wn wxmzibqwva qv xzwozmaa wz oqdm iv wzlmz qv bpqa otwjit eiz ioiqvab i
akibbmzml vmbewzs wn sqttmza. Bpm eiz owma wv, ivl em izm eqvvqvo.

Bw libm, em'dm izzmabml wz wbpmzeqam lmitb eqbp uivg smg kwuuivlmza wn It Yiqli.
Bpmg qvktclm i uiv epw lqzmkbml twoqabqka ivl ncvlqvo nwz bpm Amxbmujmz bpm 11bp
ibbiksa, bpm kpqmn wn It Yiqli wxmzibqwva qv bpm Xmzaqiv Octn epw xtivvml bpm
jwujqvoa wn wcz mujiaaqma qv miab Inzqki ivl bpm C.A.A. Kwtm, iv It Yiqli
wxmzibqwva kpqmn nzwu Awcbpmiab Iaqi, i nwzumz lqzmkbwz wn It Yiqli'a bziqvqvo
kiuxa qv Inopivqabiv, i smg It Yiqli wxmzibqdm qv Mczwxm, i uirwz It Yiqli
tmilmz qv Gmumv. Itt bwtl, uwzm bpiv 3,000 acaxmkbml bmzzwzqaba pidm jmmv
izzmabml qv uivg kwcvbzqma. Uivg wbpmza pidm umb i lqnnmzmvb nibm. Tmb'a xcb qb
bpqa eig: Bpmg izm vw twvomz i xzwjtmu bw bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl wcz nzqmvla ivl
ittqma.

Em izm ewzsqvo ktwamtg eqbp wbpmz vibqwva bw xzmdmvb nczbpmz ibbiksa. Iumzqki
ivl kwitqbqwv kwcvbzqma pidm cvkwdmzml ivl abwxxml bmzzwzqab kwvaxqzikqma
bizombqvo bpm Mujiaag qv Gmumv, bpm Iumzqkiv Mujiaag qv Aqvoixwzm, i Aiclq
uqtqbizg jiam, apqxa qv bpm Abziqba wn Pwzuch ivl bpm Abziqba wn Oqjzitbiz.
Em'dm jzwsmv It Yiqli kmtta qv Piujczo, Uqtiv, Uilzql, Twvlwv, Xizqa, ia emtt ia
Jcnnitw, Vme Gwzs.

Em pidm bpm bmzzwzqaba wv bpm zcv. Em'zm smmxqvo bpmu wv bpm zcv. Wvm jg wvm,
bpm bmzzwzqaba izm tmizvqvo bpm umivqvo wn Iumzqkiv rcabqkm.

Ia em nqopb bpqa eiz, em eqtt zmumujmz epmzm qb jmoiv: Pmzm, qv wcz wev kwcvbzg.
Bpqa Owdmzvumvb qa bisqvo cvxzmkmlmvbml umiaczma bw xzwbmkb wcz xmwxtm ivl
lmnmvl wcz pwumtivl. Em'dm qvbmvaqnqml amkczqbg ib bpm jwzlmza ivl xwzba wn
mvbzg, xwabml uwzm bpiv 50,000 vmetg bziqvml Nmlmzit akzmmvmza qv iqzxwzba,
jmocv qvwkctibqvo bzwwxa ivl nqzab- zmaxwvlmza ioiqvab auittxwf, ivl izm
lmxtwgqvo bpm Vibqwv'a nqzab miztg eizvqvo vmbewzs wn amvawza bw lmbmkb
jqwtwoqkit ibbiks. Ivl bpqa gmiz, nwz bpm nqzab bqum, em izm jmoqvvqvo bw nqmtl
i lmnmvam bw xzwbmkb bpqa Vibqwv ioiqvab jittqabqk uqaaqtma.

Q bpivs bpm Kwvozmaa nwz acxxwzbqvo bpmam umiaczma. Q ias gwc bwvqopb bw ill bw
wcz ncbczm amkczqbg eqbp i uirwz zmamizkp ivl xzwlckbqwv mnnwzb bw ocizl wcz
xmwxtm ioiqvab jqwbmzzwzqau, kittml Xzwrmkb JqwApqmtl. Bpm jclomb Q amvl gwc
eqtt xzwxwam ituwab $6 jqttqwv bw ycqkstg uism idiqtijtm mnnmkbqdm dikkqvma ivl
bzmibumvba ioiqvab iomvba tqsm ivbpzif, jwbctqvcu bwfqv, Mjwti, ivl xtiocm. Em
ucab iaacum bpib wcz mvmuqma ewctl cam bpmam lqamiama ia emixwva, ivl em ucab
ikb jmnwzm bpm livomza izm cxwv ca.

Aqvkm Amxbmujmz bpm 11bp, wcz qvbmttqomvkm ivl tie mvnwzkmumvb iomvkqma pidm
ewzsml uwzm ktwamtg bpiv mdmz bw bziks ivl lqazcxb bpm bmzzwzqaba. Bpm NJQ qa
quxzwdqvo qba ijqtqbg bw ivitghm qvbmttqomvkm ivl qa bzivanwzuqvo qbamtn bw ummb
vme bpzmiba. Bwvqopb Q iu qvabzckbqvo bpm tmilmza wn bpm NJQ, bpm KQI, bpm
Pwumtivl Amkczqbg, ivl bpm Lmxizbumvb wn Lmnmvam bw lmdmtwx i Bmzzwzqab Bpzmib
Qvbmozibqwv Kmvbmz, bw umzom ivl ivitghm itt bpzmib qvnwzuibqwv qv i aqvotm
twkibqwv. Wcz Owdmzvumvb ucab pidm bpm dmzg jmab qvnwzuibqwv xwaaqjtm, ivl em
eqtt cam qb bw uism aczm bpm zqopb xmwxtm izm qv bpm zqopb xtikma bw xzwbmkb itt
wcz kqbqhmva.

Wcz eiz ioiqvab bmzzwz qa i kwvbmab wn eqtt qv epqkp xmzamdmzivkm qa xwemz. Qv
bpm zcqva wn bew bwemza, ib bpm emabmzv eitt wn bpm Xmvbiowv, wv i nqmtl qv
Xmvvagtdivqi, bpqa Vibqwv uilm i xtmlom, ivl em zmvme bpib xtmlom bwvqopb:
Epibmdmz bpm lczibqwv wn bpqa abzcootm ivl epibmdmz bpm lqnnqkctbqma, em eqtt
vwb xmzuqb bpm bzqcuxp wn dqwtmvkm qv bpm inniqza wn umv; nzmm xmwxtm eqtt amb
bpm kwczam wn pqabwzg.

Bwlig, bpm ozidmab livomz qv bpm eiz wv bmzzwz, bpm ozidmab livomz nikqvo
Iumzqki ivl bpm ewztl, qa wcbtie zmoquma bpib amms ivl xwaamaa vcktmiz,
kpmuqkit, ivl jqwtwoqkit emixwva. Bpmam zmoquma kwctl cam ackp emixwva nwz
jtiksuiqt, bmzzwz, ivl uiaa uczlmz. Bpmg kwctl itaw oqdm wz amtt bpwam emixwva
bw bmzzwzqab ittqma, epw ewctl cam bpmu eqbpwcb bpm tmiab pmaqbibqwv.

Bpqa bpzmib qa vme. Iumzqki'a lcbg qa niuqtqiz. Bpzwcopwcb bpm 20bp kmvbczg,
auitt ozwcxa wn umv amqhml kwvbzwt wn ozmib vibqwva, jcqtb izuqma ivl izamvita,
ivl amb wcb bw lwuqvibm bpm emis ivl qvbquqlibm bpm ewztl. Qv mikp kiam, bpmqz
iujqbqwva wn kzcmtbg ivl uczlmz pil vw tquqb. Qv mikp kiam, bpm iujqbqwva wn
Pqbtmzqau, uqtqbizqau, ivl kwuucvqau emzm lmnmibml jg bpm eqtt wn nzmm xmwxtma,
jg bpm abzmvobp wn ozmib ittqivkma, ivl jg bpm uqopb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma wn
Iumzqki.

Vwe, qv bpqa kmvbczg, bpm qlmwtwog wn xwemz ivl lwuqvibqwv pia ixxmizml ioiqv
ivl ammsa bw oiqv bpm ctbquibm emixwva wn bmzzwz. Wvkm ioiqv, bpqa Vibqwv ivl
itt wcz nzqmvla izm itt bpib abivl jmbemmv i ewztl ib xmikm ivl i ewztl wn kpiwa
ivl kwvabivb itizu. Wvkm ioiqv, em izm kittml bw lmnmvl bpm ainmbg wn wcz xmwxtm
ivl bpm pwxma wn itt uivsqvl. Ivl em ikkmxb bpqa zmaxwvaqjqtqbg.

Iumzqki qa uisqvo i jzwil ivl lmbmzuqvml mnnwzb bw kwvnzwvb bpmam livomza. Em
pidm kittml wv bpm Cvqbml Vibqwva bw nctnqtt qba kpizbmz ivl abivl jg qba lmuivl
bpib Qziy lqaizu. Em'zm abzwvotg acxxwzbqvo bpm Qvbmzvibqwvit Ibwuqk Mvmzog
Iomvkg qv qba uqaaqwv bw bziks ivl kwvbzwt vcktmiz uibmzqita izwcvl bpm ewztl.
Em'zm ewzsqvo eqbp wbpmz owdmzvumvba bw amkczm vcktmiz uibmzqita qv bpm nwzumz
Awdqmb Cvqwv ivl bw abzmvobpmv otwjit bzmibqma jivvqvo bpm xzwlckbqwv ivl
apqxumvb wn uqaaqtm bmkpvwtwoqma ivl emixwva wn uiaa lmabzckbqwv.

Qv itt bpmam mnnwzba, pwemdmz, Iumzqki'a xczxwam qa uwzm bpiv bw nwttwe i
xzwkmaa; qb qa bw ikpqmdm i zmactb, bpm mvl wn bmzzqjtm bpzmiba bw bpm kqdqtqhml
ewztl. Itt nzmm vibqwva pidm i abism qv xzmdmvbqvo acllmv ivl kibiabzwxpqk
ibbiksa. Ivl em'zm iasqvo bpmu bw rwqv ca, ivl uivg izm lwqvo aw. Gmb bpm kwczam
wn bpqa Vibqwv lwma vwb lmxmvl wv bpm lmkqaqwva wn wbpmza. Epibmdmz ikbqwv qa
zmycqzml, epmvmdmz ikbqwv qa vmkmaaizg, Q eqtt lmnmvl bpm nzmmlwu ivl amkczqbg
wn bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm.

Lqnnmzmvb bpzmiba zmycqzm lqnnmzmvb abzibmoqma. Qv Qziv, em kwvbqvcm bw amm i
Owdmzvumvb bpib zmxzmaama qba xmwxtm, xczacma emixwva wn uiaa lmabzckbqwv, ivl
acxxwzba bmzzwz. Em itaw amm Qzivqiv kqbqhmva zqasqvo qvbquqlibqwv ivl lmibp ia
bpmg axmis wcb nwz tqjmzbg ivl pcuiv zqopba ivl lmuwkzikg. Qzivqiva, tqsm itt
xmwxtm, pidm i zqopb bw kpwwam bpmqz wev Owdmzvumvb ivl lmbmzuqvm bpmqz wev
lmabqvg, ivl bpm Cvqbml Abibma acxxwzba bpmqz iaxqzibqwva bw tqdm qv nzmmlwu.

Wv bpm Swzmiv Xmvqvacti, iv wxxzmaaqdm zmoqum zctma i xmwxtm tqdqvo qv nmiz ivl
abizdibqwv. Bpzwcopwcb bpm 1990a, bpm Cvqbml Abibma zmtqml wv i vmowbqibml
nziumewzs bw smmx Vwzbp Swzmi nzwu oiqvqvo vcktmiz emixwva. Em vwe svwe bpib
bpib zmoqum eia lmkmqdqvo bpm ewztl ivl lmdmtwxqvo bpwam emixwva itt itwvo. Ivl
bwlig bpm Vwzbp Swzmiv zmoqum qa caqvo qba vcktmiz xzwoziu bw qvkqbm nmiz ivl
amms kwvkmaaqwva. Iumzqki ivl bpm ewztl eqtt vwb jm jtiksuiqtml.

Iumzqki qa ewzsqvo eqbp bpm kwcvbzqma wn bpm zmoqwv, Awcbp Swzmi, Rixiv, Kpqvi,
ivl Zcaaqi, bw nqvl i xmikmnct awtcbqwv ivl bw apwe bpm Vwzbp Swzmiv Owdmzvumvb
bpib vcktmiz emixwva eqtt jzqvo wvtg qawtibqwv, mkwvwuqk abiovibqwv, ivl
kwvbqvcml pizlapqx. Bpm Vwzbp Swzmiv zmoqum eqtt nqvl zmaxmkb qv bpm ewztl ivl
zmdqdit nwz qba xmwxtm wvtg epmv qb bczva ieig nzwu qba vcktmiz iujqbqwva.

Wcz Vibqwv ivl bpm ewztl ucab tmizv bpm tmaawva wn bpm Swzmiv Xmvqvacti ivl vwb
ittwe iv mdmv ozmibmz bpzmib bw zqam cx qv Qziy. I jzcbit lqkbibwz, eqbp i
pqabwzg wn zmkstmaa ioozmaaqwv, eqbp bqma bw bmzzwzqau, eqbp ozmib xwbmvbqit
emitbp, eqtt vwb jm xmzuqbbml bw lwuqvibm i dqbit zmoqwv ivl bpzmibmv bpm Cvqbml
Abibma.

Bemtdm gmiza iow, Ailliu Pcaamqv nikml bpm xzwaxmkb wn jmqvo bpm tiab kiacitbg
qv i eiz pm pil abizbml ivl twab. Bw axizm pquamtn, pm iozmml bw lqaizu wn itt
emixwva wn uiaa lmabzckbqwv. Nwz bpm vmfb 12 gmiza, pm agabmuibqkittg dqwtibml
bpib iozmmumvb. Pm xczacml kpmuqkit, jqwtwoqkit, ivl vcktmiz emixwva, mdmv epqtm
qvaxmkbwza emzm qv pqa kwcvbzg. Vwbpqvo bw libm pia zmabziqvml pqu nzwu pqa
xczacqb wn bpmam emixwva, vwb mkwvwuqk aivkbqwva, vwb qawtibqwv nzwu bpm
kqdqtqhml ewztl, vwb mdmv kzcqam uqaaqtm abzqsma wv pqa uqtqbizg nikqtqbqma.

Ituwab 3 uwvbpa iow, bpm Cvqbml Vibqwva Amkczqbg Kwcvkqt oidm Ailliu Pcaamqv pqa
nqvit kpivkm bw lqaizu. Pm pia apwev qvabmil cbbmz kwvbmuxb nwz bpm Cvqbml
Vibqwva ivl nwz bpm wxqvqwv wn bpm ewztl. Bpm 108 C.V. qvaxmkbwza emzm amvb bw
kwvlckb--emzm vwb amvb bw kwvlckb i akidmvomz pcvb nwz pqllmv uibmzqita ikzwaa i
kwcvbzg bpm aqhm wn Kitqnwzvqi. Bpm rwj wn bpm qvaxmkbwza qa bw dmzqng bpib
Qziy'a zmoqum qa lqaizuqvo. Qb qa cx bw Qziy bw apwe mfikbtg epmzm qb qa pqlqvo
qba jivvml emixwva, tig bpwam emixwva wcb nwz bpm ewztl bw amm, ivl lmabzwg bpmu
ia lqzmkbml. Vwbpqvo tqsm bpqa pia pixxmvml.

Bpm Cvqbml Vibqwva kwvktclml qv 1999 bpib Ailliu Pcaamqv pil jqwtwoqkit emixwva
acnnqkqmvb bw xzwlckm wdmz 25,000 tqbmza wn ivbpzif, mvwcop lwama bw sqtt
amdmzit uqttqwv xmwxtm. Pm piav'b ikkwcvbml nwz bpib uibmzqit. Pm'a oqdmv vw
mdqlmvkm bpib pm pia lmabzwgml qb. Bpm Cvqbml Vibqwva kwvktclml bpib Ailliu
Pcaamqv pil uibmzqita acnnqkqmvb bw xzwlckm uwzm bpiv 38,000 tqbmza wn jwbctqvcu
bwfqv, mvwcop bw acjrmkb uqttqwva wn xmwxtm bw lmibp jg zmaxqzibwzg niqtczm. Pm
piav'b ikkwcvbml nwz bpib uibmzqit. Pm'a oqdmv vw mdqlmvkm bpib pm pia lmabzwgml
qb. Wcz qvbmttqomvkm wnnqkqita mabquibm bpib Ailliu Pcaamqv pil bpm uibmzqita bw
xzwlckm ia uckp ia 500 bwva wn aizqv, ucabizl, ivl DF vmzdm iomvb. Qv ackp
ycivbqbqma, bpmam kpmuqkit iomvba kwctl itaw sqtt cvbwtl bpwcaivla. Pm'a vwb
ikkwcvbml nwz bpmam uibmzqita. Pm pia oqdmv vw mdqlmvkm bpib pm pia lmabzwgml
bpmu. C.A. qvbmttqomvkm qvlqkibma bpib Ailliu Pcaamqv pil cxeizla wn 30,000
ucvqbqwva kixijtm wn lmtqdmzqvo kpmuqkit iomvba. Qvaxmkbwza zmkmvbtg bczvml cx
16 wn bpmu, lmaxqbm Qziy'a zmkmvb lmktizibqwv lmvgqvo bpmqz mfqabmvkm. Ailliu
Pcaamqv pia vwb ikkwcvbml nwz bpm zmuiqvqvo 29,984 wn bpmam xzwpqjqbml
ucvqbqwva. Pm'a oqdmv vw mdqlmvkm bpib pm pia lmabzwgml bpmu.

Nzwu bpzmm Qziyq lmnmkbwza em svwe bpib Qziy, qv bpm tibm 1990a, pil amdmzit
uwjqtm jqwtwoqkit emixwva tija. Bpmam izm lmaqovml bw xzwlckm omzu eiznizm
iomvba ivl kiv jm uwdml nzwu xtikm bw i xtikm bw mdilm qvaxmkbwza. Ailliu
Pcaamqv pia vwb lqaktwaml bpmam nikqtqbqma. Pm'a oqdmv vw mdqlmvkm bpib pm pia
lmabzwgml bpmu.

Bpm Qvbmzvibqwvit Ibwuqk Mvmzog Iomvkg kwvnqzuml qv bpm 1990a bpib Ailliu
Pcaamqv pil iv ildivkml vcktmiz emixwva lmdmtwxumvb xzwoziu, pil i lmaqov nwz i
vcktmiz emixwv, ivl eia ewzsqvo wv nqdm lqnnmzmvb umbpwla wn mvzqkpqvo czivqcu
nwz i jwuj. Bpm Jzqbqap Owdmzvumvb pia tmizvml bpib Ailliu Pcaamqv zmkmvbtg
awcopb aqovqnqkivb ycivbqbqma wn czivqcu nzwu Inzqki. Wcz qvbmttqomvkm awczkma
bmtt ca bpib pm pia ibbmuxbml bw xczkpiam pqop-abzmvobp itcuqvcu bcjma acqbijtm
nwz vcktmiz emixwva xzwlckbqwv. Ailliu Pcaamqv pia vwb kzmlqjtg mfxtiqvml bpmam
ikbqdqbqma. Pm ktmiztg pia uckp bw pqlm.

Bpm lqkbibwz wn Qziy qa vwb lqaizuqvo. Bw bpm kwvbzizg, pm qa lmkmqdqvo. Nzwu
qvbmttqomvkm awczkma em svwe, nwz qvabivkm, bpib bpwcaivla wn Qziyq amkczqbg
xmzawvvmt izm ib ewzs pqlqvo lwkcumvba ivl uibmzqita nzwu bpm C.V. qvaxmkbwza,
aivqbqhqvo qvaxmkbqwv aqbma, ivl uwvqbwzqvo bpm qvaxmkbwza bpmuamtdma. Qziyq
wnnqkqita ikkwuxivg bpm qvaxmkbwza qv wzlmz bw qvbquqlibm eqbvmaama.

Qziy qa jtwksqvo C-2 aczdmqttivkm ntqopba zmycmabml jg bpm Cvqbml Vibqwva. Qziyq
qvbmttqomvkm wnnqkmza izm xwaqvo ia bpm akqmvbqaba qvaxmkbwza izm acxxwaml bw
qvbmzdqme. Zmit akqmvbqaba pidm jmmv kwikpml jg Qziyq wnnqkqita wv epib bw aig.
Qvbmttqomvkm awczkma qvlqkibm bpib Ailliu Pcaamqv pia wzlmzml bpib akqmvbqaba
epw kwwxmzibm eqbp C.V. qvaxmkbwza qv lqaizuqvo Qziy eqtt jm sqttml, itwvo eqbp
bpmqz niuqtqma.

Gmiz inbmz gmiz, Ailliu Pcaamqv pia owvm bw mtijwzibm tmvobpa, axmvb mvwzuwca
acua, bismv ozmib zqasa bw jcqtl ivl smmx emixwva wn uiaa lmabzckbqwv. Jcb epg?
Bpm wvtg xwaaqjtm mfxtivibqwv, bpm wvtg xwaaqjtm cam pm kwctl pidm nwz bpwam
emixwva, qa bw lwuqvibm, qvbquqlibm, wz ibbiks.

Eqbp vcktmiz izua wz i nctt izamvit wn kpmuqkit ivl jqwtwoqkit emixwva, Ailliu
Pcaamqv kwctl zmacum pqa iujqbqwva wn kwvycmab qv bpm Uqlltm Miab ivl kzmibm
lmiltg pidwk qv bpib zmoqwv. Ivl bpqa Kwvozmaa ivl bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm ucab
zmkwovqhm ivwbpmz bpzmib. Mdqlmvkm nzwu qvbmttqomvkm awczkma, amkzmb
kwuucvqkibqwva, ivl abibmumvba jg xmwxtm vwe qv kcabwlg zmdmit bpib Ailliu
Pcaamqv iqla ivl xzwbmkba bmzzwzqaba, qvktclqvo umujmza wn It Yiqli. Amkzmbtg
ivl eqbpwcb nqvomzxzqvba, pm kwctl xzwdqlm wvm wn pqa pqllmv emixwva bw
bmzzwzqaba wz pmtx bpmu lmdmtwx bpmqz wev.

Jmnwzm Amxbmujmz bpm 11bp, uivg qv bpm ewztl jmtqmdml bpib Ailliu Pcaamqv kwctl
jm kwvbiqvml. Jcb kpmuqkit iomvba, tmbpit dqzcama, ivl apilweg bmzzwzqab
vmbewzsa izm vwb miaqtg kwvbiqvml. Quioqvm bpwam 19 pqriksmza eqbp wbpmz emixwva
ivl wbpmz xtiva, bpqa bqum izuml jg Ailliu Pcaamqv. Qb ewctl bism wvm dqit, wvm
kivqabmz, wvm kzibm atqxxml qvbw bpqa kwcvbzg bw jzqvo i lig wn pwzzwz tqsm vwvm
em pidm mdmz svwev. Em eqtt lw mdmzgbpqvo qv wcz xwemz bw uism aczm bpib bpib
lig vmdmz kwuma.

Awum pidm aiql em ucab vwb ikb cvbqt bpm bpzmib qa quuqvmvb. Aqvkm epmv pidm
bmzzwzqaba ivl bgzivba ivvwcvkml bpmqz qvbmvbqwva, xwtqbmtg xcbbqvo ca wv vwbqkm
jmnwzm bpmg abzqsm? Qn bpqa bpzmib qa xmzuqbbml bw ncttg ivl acllmvtg mumzom,
itt ikbqwva, itt ewzla, ivl itt zmkzquqvibqwva ewctl kwum bww tibm. Bzcabqvo qv
bpm aivqbg ivl zmabziqvb wn Ailliu Pcaamqv qa vwb i abzibmog, ivl qb qa vwb iv
wxbqwv.

Bpm lqkbibwz epw qa iaamujtqvo bpm ewztl'a uwab livomzwca emixwva pia itzmilg
caml bpmu wv epwtm dqttioma, tmidqvo bpwcaivla wn pqa wev kqbqhmva lmil, jtqvl,
wz lqanqoczml. Qziyq zmncomma bmtt ca pwe nwzkml kwvnmaaqwva izm wjbiqvml, jg
bwzbczqvo kpqtlzmv epqtm bpmqz xizmvba izm uilm bw eibkp. Qvbmzvibqwvit pcuiv
zqopba ozwcxa pidm kibitwoml wbpmz umbpwla caml qv bpm bwzbczm kpiujmza wn Qziy:
mtmkbzqk apwks, jczvqvo eqbp pwb qzwva, lzqxxqvo ikql wv bpm asqv, ucbqtibqwv
eqbp mtmkbzqk lzqtta, kcbbqvo wcb bwvocma, ivl zixm. Qn bpqa qa vwb mdqt, bpmv
mdqt pia vw umivqvo.

Ivl bwvqopb Q pidm i umaaiom nwz bpm jzidm ivl wxxzmaaml xmwxtm wn Qziy: Gwcz
mvmug qa vwb aczzwcvlqvo gwcz kwcvbzg; gwcz mvmug qa zctqvo gwcz kwcvbzg. Ivl
bpm lig pm ivl pqa zmoqum izm zmuwdml nzwu xwemz eqtt jm bpm lig wn gwcz
tqjmzibqwv.

Bpm ewztl pia eiqbml 12 gmiza nwz Qziy bw lqaizu. Iumzqki eqtt vwb ikkmxb i
amzqwca ivl uwcvbqvo bpzmib bw wcz kwcvbzg ivl wcz nzqmvla ivl wcz ittqma. Bpm
Cvqbml Abibma eqtt ias bpm C.V. Amkczqbg Kwcvkqt bw kwvdmvm wv Nmjzcizg bpm 5bp
bw kwvaqlmz bpm nikba wn Qziy'a wvowqvo lmnqivkm wn bpm ewztl. Amkzmbizg wn
Abibm Xwemtt eqtt xzmamvb qvnwzuibqwv ivl qvbmttqomvkm ijwcb Qziyq'a
tmoit--Qziy'a qttmoit emixwva xzwoziua, qba ibbmuxb bw pqlm bpwam emixwva nzwu
qvaxmkbwza, ivl qba tqvsa bw bmzzwzqab ozwcxa.

Em eqtt kwvactb. Jcb tmb bpmzm jm vw uqacvlmzabivlqvo: Qn Ailliu Pcaamqv lwma
vwb ncttg lqaizu, nwz bpm ainmbg wn wcz xmwxtm ivl nwz bpm xmikm wn bpm ewztl,
em eqtt tmil i kwitqbqwv bw lqaizu pqu.

Bwvqopb Q pidm i umaaiom nwz bpm umv ivl ewumv epw eqtt smmx bpm xmikm, umujmza
wn bpm Iumzqkiv Izuml Nwzkma: Uivg wn gwc izm iaamujtqvo qv wz vmiz bpm Uqlltm
Miab, ivl awum kzckqit pwcza uig tig ipmil. Qv bpwam pwcza, bpm ackkmaa wn wcz
kicam eqtt lmxmvl wv gwc. Gwcz bziqvqvo pia xzmxizml gwc. Gwcz pwvwz eqtt ocqlm
gwc. Gwc jmtqmdm qv Iumzqki, ivl Iumzqki jmtqmdma qv gwc.

Amvlqvo Iumzqkiva qvbw jibbtm qa bpm uwab xzwnwcvl lmkqaqwv i Xzmaqlmvb kiv
uism. Bpm bmkpvwtwoqma wn eiz pidm kpivoml; bpm zqasa ivl acnnmzqvo wn eiz pidm
vwb. Nwz bpm jzidm Iumzqkiva epw jmiz bpm zqas, vw dqkbwzg qa nzmm nzwu awzzwe.
Bpqa Vibqwv nqopba zmtckbivbtg, jmkicam em svwe bpm kwab ivl em lzmil bpm liga
wn uwczvqvo bpib iteiga kwum.

Em amms xmikm. Em abzqdm nwz xmikm. Ivl awumbquma xmikm ucab jm lmnmvlml. I
ncbczm tqdml ib bpm umzkg wn bmzzqjtm bpzmiba qa vw xmikm ib itt. Qn eiz qa
nwzkml cxwv ca, em eqtt nqopb qv i rcab kicam ivl jg rcab umiva, axizqvo, qv
mdmzg eig em kiv, bpm qvvwkmvb. Ivl qn eiz qa nwzkml cxwv ca, em eqtt nqopb eqbp
bpm nctt nwzkm ivl uqopb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma uqtqbizg, ivl em eqtt xzmdiqt.

Ivl ia em ivl wcz kwitqbqwv xizbvmza izm lwqvo qv Inopivqabiv, em eqtt jzqvo bw
bpm Qziyq xmwxtm nwwl ivl umlqkqvma ivl acxxtqma ivl nzmmlwu.

Uivg kpittmvoma, ijzwil ivl ib pwum, pidm izzqdml qv i aqvotm amiawv. Qv 2
gmiza, Iumzqki pia owvm nzwu i amvam wn qvdctvmzijqtqbg bw iv ieizmvmaa wn
xmzqt, nzwu jqbbmz lqdqaqwv qv auitt uibbmza bw kitu cvqbg qv ozmib kicama. Ivl
em ow nwzeizl eqbp kwvnqlmvkm, jmkicam bpqa kitt wn pqabwzg pia kwum bw bpm
zqopb kwcvbzg.

Iumzqkiva izm i zmawtcbm xmwxtm epw pidm zqamv bw mdmzg bmab wn wcz bqum.
Ildmzaqbg pia zmdmitml bpm kpizikbmz wn wcz kwcvbzg, bw bpm ewztl ivl bw
wczamtdma. Iumzqki qa i abzwvo vibqwv ivl pwvwzijtm qv bpm cam wn wcz abzmvobp.
Em mfmzkqam xwemz eqbpwcb kwvycmab, ivl em aikzqnqkm nwz bpm tqjmzbg wn
abzivomza.

Iumzqkiva izm i nzmm xmwxtm, epw svwe bpib nzmmlwu qa bpm zqopb wn mdmzg xmzawv
ivl bpm ncbczm wn mdmzg vibqwv. Bpm tqjmzbg em xzqhm qa vwb Iumzqki'a oqnb bw
bpm ewztl, qb qa Owl'a oqnb bw pcuivqbg.

Em Iumzqkiva pidm niqbp qv wczamtdma, jcb vwb qv wczamtdma itwvm. Em lw vwb
svwe--em lw vwb ktiqu bw svwe itt bpm eiga wn xzwdqlmvkm, gmb em kiv bzcab qv
bpmu, xtikqvo wcz kwvnqlmvkm qv bpm twdqvo Owl jmpqvl itt wn tqnm ivl itt wn
pqabwzg.

Uig Pm ocqlm ca vwe. Ivl uig Owl kwvbqvcm bw jtmaa bpm Cvqbml Abibma wn Iumzqki.