Oj ocz Xjibmznn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn:

Ocz Novoz ja ocz Pidji dn njpiy. Jpm zxjijht dn mzxjqzmdib amjh v
mzxznndji. V ivodjivg zizmbt kgvi dn di kgvxz viy jpm yzkziyzixz ji ajmzdbi
jdg dn yzxmzvndib. Rz cvqz wzzi vo kzvxz ajm ajpm pidiozmmpkozy tzvmn.

Wpo, jpm Ivodji cvn nzmdjpn kmjwgzhn. Diagvodji viy pizhkgjthzio vmz
pivxxzkovwgt cdbc. Ocz rjmgy jdg hvmfzo dn dixmzvndibgt odbco. Oczmz vmz
omjpwgz nkjon ocmjpbcjpo ocz rjmgy, viy 52 Vhzmdxvi cjnovbzn vmz wzdib czgy
di Dmvi vbvdino diozmivodjivg gvr viy vbvdino zqzmt kmzxzko ja cphvi
vaavdmn.

Cjrzqzm, D admhgt wzgdzqz ocvo, vn v mznpgo ja ocz kmjbmznn hvyz di nj hvit
yjhznodx viy diozmivodjivg vmzvn jqzm ocz kvno ajpm tzvmn, jpm Ivodji dn
nomjibzm, rzvgocdzm, hjmz xjhkvnndjivoz viy amzzm ocvi do rvn ajpm tzvmn
vbj. D vh kmjpy ja ocvo avxo. Viy D wzgdzqz ocz Xjibmznn ncjpgy wz kmjpy vn
rzgg, ajm nj hpxc ja rcvo cvn wzzi vxxjhkgdnczy jqzm ocz kvno ajpm tzvmn
cvn wzzi ypz oj ocz cvmy rjmf, dindbcon viy xjjkzmvodji ja Xjibmznn. D
vkkgvpy ocz Xjibmznn ajm don zaajmon viy don vxcdzqzhzion.

Di ocdn Novoz ja ocz Pidji Hznnvbz D rvio oj mzxjpio ocz vxcdzqzhzion viy
kmjbmznn ja ocz gvno ajpm tzvmn viy oj jaazm mzxjhhziyvodjin oj ocz
Xjibmznn ajm ocdn tzvm. Rcdgz ht ozmh vn Kmzndyzio rdgg ziy wzajmz ocz 97oc
Xjibmznn wzbdin don rjmf di zvmizno, D cjkz ocvo ht mzxjhhziyvodjin rdgg
nzmqz vn v bpdyz ajm ocz ydmzxodji ocdn xjpiomt ncjpgy ovfz nj rz wpdgy ji
ocz mzxjmy ja ocz kvno ajpm tzvmn.

MZXJMY JA KMJBMZNN

Rczi D ojjf jaadxz, jpm Ivodji avxzy v iphwzm ja nzmdjpn yjhznodx viy
diozmivodjivg kmjwgzhn:

--ij ivodjivg zizmbt kjgdxt zsdnozy, viy jpm yzkziyzixz ji ajmzdbi jdg rvn
mvkdygt dixmzvndib;

--kpwgdx ompno di ocz diozbmdot viy jkziiznn ja ocz bjqzmihzio rvn gjr;

--ocz Azyzmvg bjqzmihzio rvn jkzmvodib dizaadxdziogt di vyhdidnozmdib
znnziodvg kmjbmvhn viy kjgdxdzn;

--hvejm njxdvg kmjwgzhn rzmz wzdib dbijmzy jm kjjmgt vyymznnzy wt ocz
Azyzmvg bjqzmihzio;

--jpm yzazinz kjnopmz rvn yzxgdidib vn v mznpgo ja v yzazinz wpybzo rcdxc
rvn xjiodipjpngt ncmdifdib di mzvg ozmhn;

--ocz nomziboc ja ocz IVOJ Vggdvixz izzyzy oj wz wjgnozmzy;

--ozindjin wzorzzi Dnmvzg viy Zbtko ocmzvozizy vijoczm Hdyygz Zvno rvm;
viy

--Vhzmdxv'n mznjgqz oj jkkjnz cphvi mdbcon qdjgvodjin rvn piyzm nzmdjpn
lpznodji.

Jqzm ocz kvno 48 hjiocn, xgzvm kmjbmznn cvn wzzi hvyz di njgqdib ocz
xcvggzibzn rz ajpiy di Evipvmt ja 1977:

--vghjno vgg ja jpm xjhkmzczindqz zizmbt kmjbmvh cvqz wzzi zivxozy, viy ocz
Yzkvmohzio ja Zizmbt cvn wzzi znovwgdnczy oj vyhdidnozm ocz kmjbmvh;
xjiadyzixz di ocz bjqzmihzio'n diozbmdot cvn wzzi mznojmzy, viy mznkzxo ajm
ocz bjqzmihzio'n jkziiznn viy avdmiznn cvn wzzi mzizrzy;

--ocz bjqzmihzio cvn wzzi hvyz hjmz zaazxodqz viy zaadxdzio: ocz Xdqdg
Nzmqdxz ntnozh rvn xjhkgzozgt mzajmhzy ajm ocz admno odhz ocdn xziopmt;

--14 mzjmbviduvodji didodvodqzn cvqz wzzi kmjkjnzy oj ocz Xjibmznn,
vkkmjqzy, viy dhkgzhziozy;

--orj izr Xvwdizo yzkvmohzion cvqz wzzi xmzvozy oj xjinjgdyvoz viy
nomzvhgdiz ocz bjqzmihzio'n cviygdib ja zizmbt viy zypxvodji kmjwgzhn;

--dinkzxojmn bzizmvg cvqz wzzi kgvxzy di zvxc Xvwdizo yzkvmohzio oj xjhwvo
amvpy, rvnoz viy joczm vwpnzn;

--ocz mzbpgvojmt kmjxznn cvn wzzi mzajmhzy ocmjpbc xmzvodji ja ocz
Mzbpgvojmt Xjpixdg, dhkgzhziovodji ja Zszxpodqz Jmyzm 12044 viy don
mzlpdmzhzio ajm xjno-dhkvxo vivgtnzn, zgdhdivodji ja piizxznnvmt
mzbpgvodji, viy kvnnvbz ja ocz Mzbpgvojmt Agzsdwdgdot Vxo;

--kmjxzypmzn cvqz wzzi znovwgdnczy oj vnnpmz xdoduzi kvmodxdkvodji di
bjqzmihzio;

--viy ocz vdmgdiz, ompxfdib, mvdg viy xjhhpidxvodjin diypnomdzn vmz wzdib
yzmzbpgvozy;

--xmdodxvg njxdvg kmjwgzhn, hvit gjib dbijmzy wt ocz Azyzmvg bjqzmihzio,
cvqz wzzi vyymznnzy ydmzxogt;

--vi pmwvi kjgdxt rvn yzqzgjkzy viy dhkgzhziozy oj mzqzmnz ocz yzxgdiz
di jpm pmwvi vmzvn;

--ocz Njxdvg Nzxpmdot Ntnozh rvn mzadivixzy oj kpo do ji v njpiy adivixdvg
wvndn;

--ocz Cphkcmzt-Cvrfdin Apgg Zhkgjthzio Vxo rvn zivxozy;

--Azyzmvg vnndnovixz ajm zypxvodji rvn zskviyzy wt hjmz ocvi 75 kzmxzio;

--ocz hdidhph rvbz rvn dixmzvnzy oj gzqzgn izzyzy oj zvnz ocz zaazxon ja
diagvodji;

--vaadmhvodqz vxodji cvn wzzi kpmnpzy vbbmznndqzgt; hjmz wgvxfn, Cdnkvidxn
viy rjhzi cvqz wzzi vkkjdiozy oj nzidjm bjqzmihzio kjndodjin viy oj
epybzncdkn ocvi vo vit joczm odhz di jpm cdnojmt;

--ocz ZMV mvodadxvodji yzvygdiz rvn zsoziyzy oj vdy ocz mvodadxvodji zaajmo;

--viy hdijmdot wpndiznn kmjxpmzhzio wt ocz Azyzmvg bjqzmihzio cvn hjmz ocvi
yjpwgzy;

--ocz Ivodji'n admno nzxojmvg kjgdxdzn rzmz kpo di kgvxz, ajm ocz vpoj viy
nozzg diypnomdzn, rdoc ht Vyhdidnomvodji yzhjinomvodib ocz qvgpz ja
xjjkzmvodji wzorzzi ocz bjqzmihzio, wpndiznn viy gvwjm;

--mzqzmndib kmzqdjpn omziyn, mzvg yzazinz nkziydib cvn dixmzvnzy zqzmt tzvm
ndixz 1977;

--ocz mzvg dixmzvnz di AT 1980 yzazinz nkziydib dn rzgg vwjqz 3 kzmxzio
viy D zskzxo AT 1981 yzazinz nkziydib oj wz zqzi cdbczm;

--gjjfdib vczvy, ocz yzazinz kmjbmvh D vh kmjkjndib dn kmzhdnzy ji v mzvg
dixmzvnz di yzazinz nkziydib jqzm ocz izso adqz tzvmn ja 20 kzmxzio jm
hjmz;

--ocz IVOJ Vggdvixz cvn kmjqzi don pidot di mznkjiydib oj ocz ndopvodjin di
Zvnozmi Zpmjkz viy Njpocrzno Vndv viy di vbmzzdib ji ocz dnnpzn oj wz
vyymznnzy di ocz mzqdzr ja ocz Czgndifd Adivg Vxo xpmmziogt piyzmrvt di
Hvymdy;

--ocz kzvxz kmjxznn di ocz Hdyygz Zvno znovwgdnczy vo Xvhk Yvqdy viy wt ocz
Kzvxz Omzvot wzorzzi Zbtko viy Dnmvzg dn wzdib wpoomznnzy ji orj amjion:
nozvyt kmjbmznn di ocz ijmhvgduvodji ja Zbtkodvi-Dnmvzgd mzgvodjin di hvit
adzgyn, viy ocz xjhhdohzio ja wjoc Zbtko viy Dnmvzg, rdoc Pidozy Novozn'
vnndnovixz, oj nzz ocmjpbc oj npxxznnapg xjixgpndji ocz vpojijht
izbjodvodjin ajm ocz Rzno Wvif viy Bvuv;

--ocz Kvivhv Xvivg Omzvodzn cvqz wzzi kpo dioj zaazxo, rcdxc cvn czgkzy oj
dhkmjqz mzgvodjin rdoc Gvodi Vhzmdxv;

--rz cvqz xjiodipzy ocdn Ivodji'n nomjib xjhhdohzio oj ocz kpmnpdo ja cphvi
mdbcon ocmjpbcjpo ocz rjmgy, zqzicviyzygt viy jwezxodqzgt;

--jpm xjhhdohzio oj v rjmgyrdyz cphvi mdbcon kjgdxt cvn mzhvdizy admh;

--viy hvit joczm xjpiomdzn cvqz bdqzi cdbc kmdjmdot oj do;

--jpm mznjgqz oj jkkjnz vbbmznndji, npxc vn ocz dggzbvg diqvndji ja ocz
Njqdzo Pidji dioj Vabcvidnovi, cvn wzzi npkkjmozy wt ojpbc vxodji.

D. ZINPMDIB ZXJIJHDX NOMZIBOC ZXJIJHT

Ypmdib ocz gvno yzxvyz jpm Ivodji cvn rdocnojjy v nzmdzn ja zxjijhdx ncjxfn
pikmzxzyziozy di kzvxzodhz. Ocz hjno ymvhvodx ja ocznz cvn wzzi ocz
zskgjndqz dixmzvnzn ja JKZX jdg kmdxzn. Wpo rz cvqz vgnj avxzy rjmgy
xjhhjydot ncjmovbzn, ivopmvg ydnvnozmn, vbmdxpgopmvg ncjmovbzn viy hvejm
xcvggzibzn oj rjmgy kzvxz viy nzxpmdot. Jpm vwdgdot oj yzvg rdoc ocznz
ncjxfn cvn wzzi dhkvdmzy wzxvpnz ja v yzxmzvnz di ocz bmjroc ja
kmjypxodqdot viy ocz kzmndnozixz ja piyzmgtdib diagvodjivmt ajmxzn wpdgo pk
jqzm ocz kvno 15 tzvmn.

Izqzmoczgznn, ocz zxjijht cvn kmjqzy oj wz mzhvmfvwgt mzndgdzio. Mzvg
jpokpo cvn bmjri vo vi vqzmvbz mvoz ja 3 kzmxzio kzm tzvm ndixz D ojjf
jaadxz, viy zhkgjthzio cvn bmjri wt 10 kzmxzio. Rz cvqz vyyzy vwjpo 8
hdggdji kmjypxodqz kmdqvoz nzxojm ejwn oj ocz zxjijht. Cjrzqzm,
pivxxzkovwgt cdbc diagvodji--ocz hjno ydaadxpgo zxjijhdx kmjwgzh D cvqz
avxzy--kzmndnon.

Ocdn diagvodji--rcdxc ocmzvozin ocz bmjroc, kmjypxodqdot, viy novwdgdot ja
jpm zxjijht--mzlpdmzn ocvo rz mznomvdi ocz bmjroc ja ocz wpybzo oj ocz
hvsdhph zsozio xjindnozio rdoc ivodjivg nzxpmdot viy cphvi xjhkvnndji. D
cvqz yjiz nj di ht zvmgdzm wpybzon, viy di ht AT '82 wpybzo. Cjrzqzm, rcdgz
mznomvdio dn znnziodvg oj vit vkkmjkmdvoz zxjijhdx kjgdxt, cdbc diagvodji
xviijo wz voomdwpozy njgzgt oj bjqzmihzio nkziydib. Ocz bmjroc di wpybzo
jpogvtn cvn wzzi hjmz ocz mznpgo ja zxjijhdx avxojmn ocvi ocz xvpnz ja
oczh.

Rz vmz ijr di ocz zvmgt novbzn ja zxjijhdx mzxjqzmt ajggjrdib v ncjmo
mzxznndji. Otkdxvggt, v kjno-mzxznndjivmt kzmdjy cvn wzzi hvmfzy wt
qdbjmjpn zxjijhdx bmjroc vdyzy wt viod-mzxznndjivmt kjgdxt hzvnpmzn npxc vn
gvmbz ovs xpon jm wdb, nodhpgvodji nkziydib kmjbmvhn. D cvqz yzxgdizy oj
mzxjhhziy npxc vxodjin oj nodhpgvoz zxjijhdx vxodqdot, wzxvpnz ocz
kzmndnozio diagvodjivmt kmznnpmzn ocvo wznzo jpm zxjijht ojyvt ydxovoz v
mznomvdizy adnxvg kjgdxt.

Vxxjmydibgt, D vh vnfdib ocz Xjibmznn oj kjnokjiz piodg Evipvmt 1, 1982,
ocz kzmnjivg ovs mzypxodjin D cvy zvmgdzm kmjkjnzy oj ovfz zaazxo ji
Evipvmt 1 ja ocdn tzvm.

Cjrzqzm, ht 1982 wpybzo kmjkjnzn ndbidadxvio ovs xcvibzn oj dixmzvnz ocz
njpmxzn ja adivixdib ajm wpndiznn diqznohzio. Rcdgz zhkcvndudib ocz izzy
ajm xjiodipzy adnxvg mznomvdio, ocdn wpybzo ovfzn ocz admno hvejm nozk di v
gjib-ozmh ovs mzypxodji kmjbmvh yzndbizy oj dixmzvnz xvkdovg ajmhvodji. Ocz
avdgpmz ja jpm Ivodji'n xvkdovg nojxf oj bmjr vo v mvoz ocvo fzzkn kvxz
rdoc don gvwjm ajmxz cvn xgzvmgt wzzi jiz xvpnz ja jpm kmjypxodqdot
ngjryjri. Cdbczm diqznohzio mvozn vmz vgnj xmdodxvggt izzyzy oj hzzo jpm
Ivodji'n zizmbt izzyn, viy oj mzkgvxz zizmbt-dizaadxdzio kgvion viy
zlpdkhzio rdoc izr zizmbt-nvqdib kctndxvg kgvion. Ocz gzqzg ja diqznohzio
ocvo dn xvggzy ajm rdgg ijo jxxpm di ocz vwnzixz ja kjgdxdzn oj zixjpmvbz
do.

Oczmzajmz, ht wpybzo kmjkjnzn v hvejm gdwzmvgduvodji ja ovs vggjrvixzn ajm
yzkmzxdvodji, vn rzgg vn ndhkgdadzy yzkmzxdvodji vxxjpiodib, dixmzvndib ocz
vggjrvwgz mvozn wt vwjpo 40 kzmxzio. D vh vgnj kmjkjndib dhkmjqzhzion di
ocz diqznohzio ovs xmzydo, hvfdib do mzapiyvwgz, oj hzzo ocz diqznohzio
izzyn ja admhn rdoc ij xpmmzio zvmidibn.

Ocznz orj kmjkjnvgn, vgjib rdoc xvmzapggt-kcvnzy ovs mzypxodjin ajm
diydqdypvgn, rdgg dhkmjqz wjoc zxjijhdx zaadxdzixt viy ovs zlpdot. D pmbz
ocz Xjibmznn oj zivxo gzbdngvodji vgjib ocz gdizn viy odhzovwgz D cvqz
kmjkjnzy.

OCZ 1982 WPYBZO

Ocz AT 1982 wpybzo D cvqz nzio oj ocz Xjibmznn xjiodipzn jpm ajpm-tzvm
kjgdxt ja kmpyzixz viy mznomvdio. Rcdgz ocz wpybzo yzadxdon ypmdib ht ozmh
vmz cdbczm ocvi D rjpgy cvqz gdfzy, oczdm nduz dn yzozmhdizy ajm ocz hjno
kvmo wt zxjijhdx xjiydodjin. Viy di nkdoz ja ocznz xjiydodjin, ocz mzgvodqz
nduz ja ocz yzadxdo xjiodipzn oj yzxgdiz. Di 1976, wzajmz D ojjf jaadxz,
ocz wpybzo yzadxdo zlpvggzy 4 kzmxzio ja bmjnn ivodjivg kmjypxo. Do cvy
wzzi xpo oj 2.3 kzmxzio di ocz 1980 adnxvg tzvm epno ziyzy. Ht 1982 wpybzo
xjiovdin v yzadxdo znodhvozy oj wz gznn ocvi 1 kzmxzio ja jpm bmjnn
ivodjivg kmjypxo.

Ocz mvoz ja bmjroc di Azyzmvg nkziydib cvn wzzi czgy oj v hdidhph.
Izqzmoczgznn, jpogvtn vmz nodgg mdndib hjmz mvkdygt ocvi hvit cvy
viodxdkvozy, ocz mznpgo ja hvit kjrzmapg ajmxzn di jpm njxdzot:

Rz avxz v ocmzvo oj jpm nzxpmdot, vn zqzion di Vabcvidnovi, ocz Hdyygz
Zvno, viy Zvnozmi Zpmjkz hvfz xgzvm. Rz cvqz v nozvydgt vbdib kjkpgvodji
viy, vn v mznpgo, ocz wdbbzno ndibgz dixmzvnz di ocz Azyzmvg wpybzo dn ocz
mdndib xjno ja mzodmzhzio kmjbmvhn, kvmodxpgvmgt njxdvg nzxpmdot. Rz avxz
joczm dhkjmovio yjhznodx izzyn: oj xjiodipz mznkjindwdgdot ajm ocz
ydnvyqviovbzy; oj kmjqdyz ocz xvkdovg izzyzy wt jpm xdodzn viy jpm
omvinkjmovodji ntnozhn; oj kmjozxo jpm ziqdmjihzio; oj mzqdovgduz Vhzmdxvi
diypnomt; viy oj dixmzvnz ocz zskjmo ja Vhzmdxvi bjjyn viy nzmqdxzn nj
znnziodvg oj ocz xmzvodji ja ejwn viy v omvyz npmkgpn.

Tzo ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio donzga hvt ijo vgrvtn wz ocz kmjkzm njpmxz ja
npxc vnndnovixz. Ajm zsvhkgz, do hpno ijo pnpmk apixodjin da oczt xvi wz
hjmz vkkmjkmdvozgt yzxdyzy pkji, hvivbzy, viy adivixzy wt ocz kmdqvoz
nzxojm jm wt Novoz viy gjxvg bjqzmihzion. Ht Vyhdidnomvodji cvn vgrvtn
njpbco oj xjindyzm ocz kmjkzm ajxpn ja mznkjindwdgdot ajm ocz hjno
zaadxdzio mznjgpodji ja kmjwgzhn.

Rz cvqz vgnj mzxjbiduzy ocz izzy oj ndhkgdat ocz ntnozh ja bmvion oj Novoz
viy gjxvg bjqzmihzion. D cvqz vbvdi kmjkjnzy nzqzmvg bmvio xjinjgdyvodjin
di ocz 1982 wpybzo, dixgpydib v izr kmjkjnvg ocvo rjpgy xjinjgdyvoz nzqzmvg
cdbcrvt kmjbmvhn.

Ocz kmznnpmzn ajm bmjroc di Azyzmvg pnz ja ivodjivg mznjpmxzn vmz bmzvo. Ht
Vyhdidnomvodji cvn didodvozy hvit izr vkkmjvxczn oj xjkz rdoc ocznz
kmznnpmzn. Rz novmozy v hpgod-tzvm wpybzo ntnozh, viy rz wzbvi v ntnozh ajm
xjiomjggdib Azyzmvg xmzydo kmjbmvhn. Tzo di nkdoz ja dixmzvndib izzyn oj
gdhdo nkziydib bmjroc, rz cvqz xjindnoziogt vyczmzy oj ocznz nomjib wpybzo
kmdixdkgzn:

Jpm Ivodji'n vmhzy ajmxzn hpno vgrvtn noviy npaadxdziogt nomjib oj yzozm
vbbmznndji viy oj vnnpmz jpm nzxpmdot. Vi zaazxodqz ivodjivg zizmbt kgvi dn
znnziodvg oj dixmzvnz yjhznodx kmjypxodji ja jdg viy bvn, oj zixjpmvbz
xjinzmqvodji ja jpm nxvmxz zizmbt mznjpmxzn, oj nodhpgvoz xjiqzmndji oj
hjmz vwpiyvio apzgn, viy oj mzypxz jpm omvyz yzadxdo. Ocz znnziodvg cphvi
izzyn ajm jpm xdoduzin hpno wz bdqzi ocz cdbczno kmdjmdot. Ocz Azyzmvg
Bjqzmihzio hpno gzvy ocz rvt di diqznohzio di ocz Ivodji'n ozxcijgjbdxvg
apopmz. Ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio cvn vi jwgdbvodji oj ipmopmz viy kmjozxo jpm
ziqdmjihzio--ocz xjhhji mznjpmxz, wdmocmdbco, viy npnozivixz ja ocz
Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz.

Ht 1982 wpybzo xjiodipzn oj npkkjmo ocznz kmdixdkgzn. Do vgnj kmjkjnzn
mznkjindwgz ovs mzypxodjin oj zixjpmvbz v hjmz kmjypxodqz zxjijht, viy
vyzlpvoz apiydib ja jpm cdbczno kmdjmdot kmjbmvhn rdocdi vi jqzmvgg kjgdxt
ja xjinomvdio.

Adnxvg mznomvdio hpno wz xjiodipzy di ocz tzvmn vczvy. Wpybzon hpno wz
odbco zijpbc oj xjiqdixz ocjnz rcj nzo rvbzn viy kmdxzn ocvo ocz Azyzmvg
Bjqzmihzio dn nzmdjpn vwjpo adbcodib diagvodji wpo ijo nj odbco vn oj xcjfz
jaa vgg bmjroc.

Xvmzapg wpybzo kjgdxt ncjpgy wz npkkgzhziozy wt joczm hzvnpmzn yzndbizy oj
mzypxz diagvodji vo gjrzm xjno di gjno jpokpo viy zhkgjthzio. Ocznz joczm
nozkn dixgpyz hzvnpmzn oj dixmzvnz diqznohzio--npxc vn ocz ovs kmjkjnvgn
dixgpyzy di ht 1982 wpybzo--viy hzvnpmzn oj dixmzvnz xjhkzododji viy
kmjypxodqdot di jpm zxjijht. Qjgpiovmt dixjhzn kjgdxdzn xvi vgnj ydmzxogt
diagpzixz rvbzn viy kmdxzn di ocz ydmzxodji ja hjyzmvodji viy oczmzwt wmdib
diagvodji yjri avnozm viy vo gjrzm xjno oj ocz zxjijht. Ocmjpbc v ovs-wvnzy
dixjhzn kjgdxt (ODK) rz xjpgy kmjqdyz ovs dixziodqzn ajm admhn viy rjmfzmn
oj hjyzmvoz oczdm rvbz viy kmdxz dixmzvnzn. Di ocz xjhdib tzvmn, xjiomjg ja
Azyzmvg zskziydopmzn xvi hvfz kjnndwgz kzmdjydx ovs mzypxodjin. Ocz
Xjibmznn ncjpgy oczmzajmz wzbdi ijr oj zqvgpvoz ocz kjoziodvgdodzn ja v ODK
kmjbmvh nj ocvo rczi ocz izso mjpiy ja ovs mzypxodjin dn vkkmjkmdvoz v ODK
kmjbmvh rdgg wz nzmdjpngt xjindyzmzy.

ZHKGJTHZIO

Ypmdib ocz gvno ajpm tzvmn rz cvqz bdqzi ojk kmdjmdot oj hzzodib ocz izzyn
ja rjmfzmn viy kmjqdydib vyydodjivg ejw jkkjmopidodzn oj ocjnz rcj nzzf
rjmf. Ndixz ocz ziy ja 1976:

Vghjno 9 hdggdji izr ejwn cvqz wzzi vyyzy oj ocz ivodji'n zxjijht ojovg
zhkgjthzio cvn mzvxczy 97 hdggdji. Hjmz ejwn ocvi zqzm wzajmz vmz czgy wt
rjhzi, hdijmdodzn viy tjpib kzjkgz. Zhkgjthzio jqzm ocz kvno ajpm tzvmn cvn
dixmzvnzy wt: 17% ajm vypgo rjhzi 11% ajm wgvxfn, viy 30% ajm Cdnkvidxn
zhkgjthzio ja wgvxf ozzivbzmn dixmzvnzy wt hjmz ocvi 5%, mzqzmndib ocz
yzxgdiz ocvo jxxpmmzy di ocz kmzqdjpn zdbco tzvmn.

Hvejm didodvodqzn gvpixczy wt ocdn Vyhdidnomvodji czgkzy wmdib vwjpo ocznz
vxxjhkgdnchzion viy cvqz kmjqdyzy v njgdy ajpiyvodji ajm zhkgjthzio viy
omvdidib kjgdxt di ocz 1980'n. Di 1977, vn kvmo ja ocz xjhkmzczindqz
zxjijhdx nodhpgpn kmjbmvh:

425,000 kpwgdx nzmqdxz ejwn rzmz xmzvozy V $1 wdggdji tjpoc zhkgjthzio
didodvodqz apiyzy 200,000 ejwn ocz yjpwgdib ja ocz Ejw Xjmkn oj 44,000
ngjon wzbvi viy 1 hdggdji nphhzm tjpoc ejwn rzmz vkkmjqzy--v 25 kzmxzio
dixmzvnz.

Di 1978:

Ocz Cphkcmzt-Cvrfdin Apgg Zhkgjthzio Vxo wzxvhz gvr ocz $400 hdggdji
Kmdqvoz Nzxojm Didodvodqzn Kmjbmvh rvn wzbpi v ovmbzozy ejwn ovs xmzydo ajm
ydnvyqviovbzy tjpoc viy joczmn rdoc nkzxdvg zhkgjthzio wvmmdzmn rvn zivxozy
ocz Xjhkmzczindqz Zhkgjthzio viy Omvdidib Vxo rvn mzvpocjmduzy ajm ajpm
tzvmn.

Di 1979:

V $6 wdggdji rzgavmz mzajmh kmjkjnvg rvn diomjypxzy rdoc apiydib ajm
400,000 kpwgdx nzmqdxz ejwn rzgavmz mzajmh yzhjinomvodji kmjezxon rzmz
gvpixczy di xjhhpidodzn vmjpiy ocz xjpiomt ocz Qdxz Kmzndyzio didodvozy v
ivodjirdyz mzqdzr ja tjpoc pizhkgjthzio di ocdn xjpiomt.

Di 1980:

Ocz adiydibn ja ocz Qdxz Kmzndyzio'n Ovnf Ajmxz mzqzvgzy ocz hvejm
zypxvodji viy zhkgjthzio yzadxdon ocvo zsdno ajm kjjm viy hdijmdot
tjpibnozmn. Vn v mznpgo v $2 wdggdji tjpoc zypxvodji viy ejwn didodvodqz
rvn diomjypxzy oj kmjqdyz pizhkgjtzy tjpoc rdoc ocz wvndx zypxvodji viy
rjmf zskzmdzixz oczt izzy oj xjhkzoz di ocz gvwjm hvmfzo ja ocz 1980'n. Vn
kvmo ja ocz zxjijhdx mzqdovgduvodji kmjbmvh nzqzmvg nozkn rzmz kmjkjnzy oj
vdy rjmfzmn di cdbc pizhkgjthzio xjhhpidodzn:

Vi vyydodjivg 13 rzzfn ja pizhkgjthzio wzizadon ajm ocz gjib ozmh
pizhkgjtzy. $600 hdggdji oj omvdi ocz ydnvyqviovbzy viy pizhkgjtzy ajm izr
kmdqvoz nzxojm ejwn. Kjndodqz vyepnohzio yzhjinomvodjin oj vdy rjmfzmn di
yzxgdidib diypnomdzn. Ocz dhkjmovio Odogz QDD Kmdqvoz Nzxojm Didodvodqzn
Kmjbmvh rvn mzvpocjmduzy ajm vi vyydodjivg orj tzvmn.

Di vyydodji oj hvfdib ndbidadxvio kmjbmznn di czgkdib ocz ydnvyqviovbzy viy
pizhkgjtzy, dhkjmovio bvdin rzmz mzvgduzy ajm vgg rjmfzmn:

Vi cdnojmdx ivodjivg vxxjmy rdoc jmbviduzy gvwjm hvyz do kjnndwgz ajm ocz
qdzrn ja rjmfdib hzi viy rjhzi oj wz czvmy vn ocz ivodji'n zxjijhdx viy
yjhznodx kjgdxdzn rzmz ajmhpgvozy; ocz Hdiz Nvazot viy Czvgoc Vxo wmjpbco
vwjpo dhkmjqzy rjmfdib xjiydodjin ajm ocz ivodji'n 500,000 hdizmn.
npwnoviodvg mzajmhn ja Jxxpkvodjivg Nvazot viy Czvgoc Vyhdidnomvodji rzmz
vxxjhkgdnczy oj czgk mzypxz piizxznnvmt wpmyzin ji wpndiznn viy oj ajxpn ji
hvejm czvgoc viy nvazot kmjwgzhn; ocz hdidhph rvbz rvn dixmzvnzy jqzm v
ajpm tzvm kzmdjy amjh $2.30 oj $3.35 vi cjpm; ocz Wgvxf Gpib Wzizado Mzajmh
Vxo rvn ndbizy dioj gvr; voozhkon oj rzvfzi Yvqdn-Wvxji Vxo rzmz yzazvozy.

Rcdgz npwnoviodvg bvdin cvqz wzzi hvyz di ocz gvno ajpm tzvmn, xjiodipzy
zaajmon vmz mzlpdmzy oj zinpmz ocvo ocdn kmjbmznn dn xjiodipzy:

Bjqzmihzio hpno xjiodipz oj hvfz gvwjm v apgg kvmoizm di ocz kjgdxt
yzxdndjin ocvo vaazxo ocz diozmznon ja rjmfdib hzi viy rjhzi; v wmjvy,
wdkvmodnvi zaajmo oj xjhwvo tjpoc pizhkgjthzio hpno wz npnovdizy
xjhkvnndjivoz mzajmh ja ocz ivodji'n rzgavmz ntnozh ncjpgy wz xjiodipzy
rdoc zhkgjthzio jkkjmopidodzn kmjqdyzy ajm ocjnz vwgz oj rjmf; rjmfzmn di
yzxgdidib diypnomdzn ncjpgy wz kmjqdyzy izr nfdggn viy czgk di adiydib
zhkgjthzio.

OMVYZ

Jqzm ocz kvno tzvm, ocz P.N. omvyz kdxopmz dhkmjqzy vn v mznpgo ja njgdy
zskjmo bvdin di wjoc hvipavxopmzy viy vbmdxpgopmvg kmjypxon. Vbmdxpgopmvg
zskjmon mzvxczy v izr mzxjmy ja jqzm $40 wdggdji, rcdgz hvipavxopmzy
zskjmon cvqz bmjri wt 24 kzmxzio oj v mzxjmy $144 wdggdji. Di ocznz vmzvn
ocz Pidozy Novozn mzxjmyzy ndbidadxvio npmkgpnzn ja $24 wdggdji viy $19
wdggdji mznkzxodqzgt. Rcdgz jpm jdg dhkjmon mzhvdizy v hvejm ymvdi ji jpm
ajmzdbi zsxcvibz zvmidibn, ocvo ymvdi rvn njhzrcvo hjyzmvozy wt v 19
kzmxzio yzxgdiz di ocz qjgphz ja jdg dhkjmon.

P.N. omvyz izbjodvojmn hvyz ndbidadxvio kmjbmznn jqzm ocz kvno tzvm di
vnnpmdib zaazxodqz dhkgzhziovodji ja ocz vbmzzhzion izbjodvozy ypmdib ocz
Ojftj Mjpiy ja Hpgodgvozmvg Omvyz Izbjodvodjin. Vbmzzhzion mzvxczy rdoc ocz
Evkviznz bjqzmihzio, ajm zsvhkgz, rdgg vnnpmz ocvo ocz Pidozy Novozn rdgg
wz vwgz oj zskviy don zskjmon oj ocz Evkviznz hvmfzo di npxc fzt vmzvn vn
ozgzxjhhpidxvodjin zlpdkhzio, ojwvxxj, viy gphwzm. Zaajmon wt P.N. omvyz
izbjodvojmn vgnj czgkzy oj kzmnpvyz v iphwzm ja fzt yzqzgjkdib xjpiomdzn oj
vxxzko hvit ja ocz iji-ovmdaa xjyzn izbjodvozy ypmdib ocz Hpgodgvozmvg
Omvyz Izbjodvodjin. Ocdn rdgg vnnpmz ocvo ocznz xjpiomdzn rdgg dixmzvndibgt
vnnphz jwgdbvodjin piyzm ocz diozmivodjivg omvydib ntnozh.

V ydaadxpgo rjmgy zxjijhdx ziqdmjihzio kjnzy v xcvggzibz ajm ocz hvivbzhzio
ja omvyz mzgvodjin. P.N. omvyz izbjodvojmn rzmz xvggzy pkji oj hvivbz
nzmdjpn nzxojmvg kmjwgzhn di npxc vmzvn vn nozzg, viy czgkzy oj vnnpmz ocvo
P.N. xczhdxvg zskjmon rdgg cvqz xjiodipzy vxxznn oj ocz Zpmjkzvi hvmfzo.

Xgjnz xjinpgovodjin rdoc ocz kmdqvoz nzxojm di ocz Pidozy Novozn cvqz
zivwgzy P.N. omvyz izbjodvojmn oj kdikjdio jwnovxgzn oj P.N. omvyz di
nzmqdxzn, viy oj wpdgy v wvndn ajm apopmz izbjodvodjin. Nzmqdxzn cvqz wzzi
vi dixmzvndibgt dhkjmovio njpmxz ja zskjmo zvmidibn ajm ocz Pidozy Novozn,
viy ocz Pidozy Novozn hpno vnnpmz xjiodipzy viy dixmzvnzy vxxznn oj ajmzdbi
hvmfzon.

Ocz omvyz kjndodji ja ocz Pidozy Novozn cvn dhkmjqzy. Wpo qdbjmjpn zaajmon
vmz izzyzy di v iphwzm ja vmzvn oj vnnpmz xjiodipzy hvmfzo vxxznn ajm P.N.
zskjmon, kvmodxpgvmgt vbmdxpgopmvg viy cdbc ozxcijgjbt kmjypxon, di rcdxc
ocz Pidozy Novozn xjiodipzn oj cvqz v nomjib xjhkzododqz zybz. Xjiodipzy
zaajmon vmz vgnj izzyzy oj mzhjqz hvit yjhznodx ydndixziodqzn, rcdxc ijr
cvhkzm P.N. zskjmo bmjroc. Viy rz hpno zinpmz ocvo xjpiomdzn yj ijo
hvidkpgvoz diqznohzio, jm dhkjnz diqznohzio kzmajmhvixz mzlpdmzhzion rcdxc
ydnojmo omvyz viy xjno pn ejwn di ocdn xjpiomt.

Di ncjmo, rz hpno xjiodipz oj nzzf amzz--wpo avdm--omvyz. Ocvo dn ocz
kjgdxt ht Vyhdidnomvodji cvn kpmnpzy amjh ocz wzbdiidib, zqzi di vmzvn
rczmz ajmzdbi xjhkzododji cvn xgzvmgt vaazxozy jpm yjhznodx diypnomt. Di
ocz nozzg diypnomt, ajm dinovixz, rz cvqz kpo Omdbbzm Kmdxz Hzxcvidnh dioj
kgvxz oj czgk kmzqzio ocz yphkdib ja nozzg. Ocvo vxodji cvn nomziboczizy
ocz yjhznodx nozzg diypnomt. Di ocz vpojhjwdgz diypnomt, rz cvqz rjmfzy--
rdocjpo mznjmo oj dhkjmo lpjovn--oj nomziboczi ocz diypnomt'n vwdgdot oj
hjyzmiduz viy xjhkzoz zaazxodqzgt.

NHVGG WPNDIZNN

D cvqz jaozi nvdy ocvo oczmz dn ijocdib nhvgg vwjpo nhvgg wpndiznn di
Vhzmdxv. Ocznz admhn vxxjpio ajm izvmgt jiz-cvga jpm bmjnn ivodjivg
kmjypxo; jqzm cvga ja izr ozxcijgjbt; viy hpxc hjmz ocvi cvga ja ocz ejwn
xmzvozy wt diypnomt.

Wzxvpnz ocdn nzxojm ja ocz zxjijht dn ocz qzmt gdazwgjjy ja jpm Ivodjivg
zxjijht, rz cvqz yjiz hpxc ojbzoczm oj dhkmjqz ocz xjhkzododqz xgdhvoz ajm
nhvggzm admhn. Ocznz xjixzmozy zaajmon cvqz wzzi vi diozbmvg kvmo ja ht
kmjbmvh oj mzqdovgduz ocz zxjijht.

Oczt dixgpyz ht xvhkvdbi oj ncmdif npwnoviodvggt ocz xvnc viy odhz
xjinphdib mzy ovkz wpmyzi dhkjnzy ji wpndiznn. Oczt dixgpyz ht
kzmnjivggt-ydmzxozy kjgdxt ja vhwdodjpngt dixmzvndib ocz Azyzmvg
xjiomvxodib yjggvmn bjdib oj nhvgg admhn, znkzxdvggt ocjnz jrizy wt rjhzi
viy hdijmdodzn. Viy oczt dixgpyz ht kmjkjnvgn oj mzdiqdbjmvoz zsdnodib
nhvgg wpndiznnzn viy vnndno ocz xmzvodji ja izr jizn ocmjpbc ovs mzajmh;
adivixdib vnndnovixz; hvmfzo zskvindji; viy npkkjmo ja kmjypxo diijqvodji.

Hvit ja ht didodvodqzn oj avxdgdovoz ocz xmzvodji viy bmjroc ja nhvgg
wpndiznnzn rzmz hvyz di mznkjinz oj ocz Rcdoz Cjpnz Xjiazmzixz ji Nhvgg
Wpndiznn, rcdxc D xjiqzizy. Ht Vyhdidnomvodji wzbvi ocz dhkgzhziovodji ja
hjno ja ocz dyzvn kmjypxzy gvno tzvm wt ocvo xdoduzi'n vyqdnjmt wjyt;
joczmn izzy oj wz vyymznnzy. D cvqz kmjkjnzy ocz mzxjiqzidib ja ocz
Xjiazmzixz izso tzvm oj mzqdzr kmjbmznn; mzvnnznn kmdjmdodzn; viy nzo izr
bjvgn. Di ocz diozmdh D cjkz ocvo ocz dixjhdib Vyhdidnomvodji viy ocz izr
Xjibmznn rdgg rjmf rdoc ocz xjhhdoozz D cvqz znovwgdnczy oj fzzk ocznz
wpndiznn yzqzgjkhzio dyzvn vgdqz viy czgk dhkgzhzio Xjiazmzixz
mzxjhhziyvodjin.

HDIJMDOT WPNDIZNN

Jiz ja ocz hjno npxxznnapg yzqzgjkhzion ja ht Vyhdidnomvodji cvn wzzi ocz
bmjroc viy nomziboczidib ja hdijmdot wpndiznn. Ocdn dn ocz admno
Vyhdidnomvodji oj kpo ocz dnnpz ji ocz kjgdxt vbziyv vn v hvoozm ja hvejm
dhkjmovixz. Oj dhkgzhzio ocz mznpgon ja jpm zvmgt zaajmon di ocdn adzgy D
npwhdoozy gzbdngvodji oj Xjibmznn yzndbizy oj apmoczm ocz yzqzgjkhzio ja
hdijmdot wpndiznn.

Rz cvqz mzjmbviduzy ocz Jaadxz ja Hdijmdot Wpndiznn dioj ocz Hdijmdot
Wpndiznn Yzqzgjkhzio Vyhdidnomvodji di ocz Yzkvmohzio ja Xjhhzmxz. HWYV cvn
vgmzvyt kmjqzi oj wz v hvejm avxojm di vnndnodib hdijmdot wpndiznnzn oj
vxcdzqz zlpdovwgz xjhkzododqz kjndodjin di ocz hvmfzokgvxz.

Ocz Azyzmvg bjqzmihzio'n kmjxpmzhzio amjh hdijmdot-jrizy admhn cvn izvmgt
omdkgzy ndixz D ojjf jaadxz. Azyzmvg yzkjndon di hdijmdot-jrizy wvifn cvqz
hjmz ocvi yjpwgzy viy hdijmdot jrizmncdk ja mvydj viy ozgzqdndji novodjin
cvn izvmgt yjpwgzy. Ocz NWV vyhdidnozmzy 8(v) Kdgjo Kmjbmvh ajm kmjxpmzhzio
rdoc ocz Vmht kmjqzy oj wz npxxznnapg viy D mzxziogt zskviyzy ocz iphwzm ja
vbzixdzn diqjgqzy oj dixgpyz IVNV viy ocz Yzkvmohzion ja Zizmbt viy
Omvinkjmovodji.

D admhgt wzgdzqz ocz xmdodxvg kvoc oj apgg amzzyjh viy zlpvgdot ajm
Vhzmdxv'n hdijmdodzn mznon rdoc ocz vwdgdot ja hdijmdot xjhhpidodzn oj
kvmodxdkvoz xjhkzododqzgt di ocz amzz ziozmkmdnz ntnozh. D wzgdzqz ocz
bjqzmihzio cvn v apiyvhziovg mznkjindwdgdot oj vnndno di ocz yzqzgjkhzio ja
hdijmdot wpndiznn viy D cjkz ocz kmjbmznn hvyz di ocz gvno ajpm tzvmn rdgg
xjiodipz.

DD. XMZVODIB ZIZMBT NZXPMDOT

Ndixz D ojjf jaadxz, ht cdbczno gzbdngvodqz kmdjmdodzn cvqz diqjgqzy ocz
mzjmdziovodji viy mzydmzxodji ja P.N. zizmbt vxodqdodzn viy ajm ocz admno
odhz, oj znovwgdnc v xjjmydivozy ivodjivg zizmbt kjgdxt. Ocz nompbbgz oj
vxcdzqz ocvo kjgdxt cvn wzzi gjib viy ydaadxpgo, wpo ocz vxxjhkgdnchzion ja
ocz kvno ajpm tzvmn hvfz xgzvm ocvo jpm xjpiomt dn adivggt nzmdjpn vwjpo
ocz kmjwgzhn xvpnzy wt jpm jqzmyzkziyzixz ji ajmzdbi jdg. Jpm kmjbmznn
ncjpgy ijo wz gjno. Rz hpno mzgt ji viy zixjpmvbz hpgodkgz ajmhn ja zizmbt
kmjypxodji--xjvg, xmpyz jdg, ivopmvg bvn, njgvm, ipxgzvm, ntioczodxn--viy
zizmbt xjinzmqvodji. Ocz amvhzrjmf kpo di kgvxz jqzm ocz gvno ajpm tzvmn
rdgg zivwgz pn oj yj ocdn.

IVODJIVG ZIZMBT KJGDXT

Vn v mznpgo ja vxodjin ht Vyhdidnomvodji viy ocz Xjibmznn cvqz ovfzi jqzm
ocz kvno ajpm tzvmn, jpm xjpiomt adivggt cvn v ivodjivg zizmbt kjgdxt:

Piyzm ht kmjbmvh ja kcvnzy yzxjiomjg, yjhznodx xmpyz jdg kmdxz xjiomjgn
rdgg ziy Nzkozhwzm 30, 1981. Vn v mznpgo zskgjmvojmt ymdggdib vxodqdodzn
cvqz mzvxczy vi vgg-odhz cdbc; Kmdxzn ajm izr ivopmvg bvn vmz wzdib
yzxjiomjggzy piyzm ocz Ivopmvg Bvn Kjgdxt Vxo--viy ivopmvg bvn kmjypxodji
dn ijr vo vi vgg odhz cdbc; ocz npkkgt ncjmovbzn ja nzqzmvg tzvmn vbj cvqz
wzzi zgdhdivozy; Ocz rdiyavgg kmjadon ovs ji xmpyz jdg cvn wzzi zivxozy
kmjqdydib $227 wdggdji jqzm ozi tzvmn ajm vnndnovixz oj gjr-dixjhz
cjpnzcjgyn, dixmzvnzy hvnn omvindo apiydib, viy v hvnndqz diqznohzio di ocz
kmjypxodji viy yzqzgjkhzio ja vgozmivodqz zizmbt njpmxzn; Ocz Ntioczodx
Apzgn Xjmkjmvodji cvn wzzi znovwgdnczy oj czgk kmdqvoz xjhkvidzn wpdgy ocz
avxdgdodzn oj kmjypxz zizmbt amjh ntioczodx apzgn; Njgvm zizmbt apiydib cvn
wzzi lpvympkgzy, njgvm zizmbt ovs xmzydon zivxozy, viy v Njgvm Zizmbt viy
Zizmbt Xjinzmqvodji Wvif cvn wzzi znovwgdnczy; V mjpoz cvn wzzi xcjnzi oj
wmdib ivopmvg bvn amjh ocz Ijmoc Ngjkz ja Vgvnfv oj ocz gjrzm 48 novozn;
Xjvg kmjypxodji viy xjinphkodji dixziodqzn cvqz wzzi dixmzvnzy, viy xjvg
kmjypxodji dn ijr vo don cdbczno gzqzg di cdnojmt; V bvnjgdiz mvodjidib
kgvi cvn wzzi vkkmjqzy wt Xjibmznn ajm kjnndwgz pnz di ocz zqzio ja v
nzqzmz zizmbt npkkgt ncjmovbz jm diozmmpkodji; Bvnjcjg kmjypxodji cvn wzzi
ymvhvodxvggt dixmzvnzy, rdoc v kmjbmvh wzdib kpo di kgvxz oj kmjypxz 500
hdggdji bvggjin ja vgxjcjg apzg wt ocz ziy ja ocdn tzvm--vi vhjpio ocvo
xjpgy zivwgz bvnjcjg oj hzzo ocz yzhviy ajm 10 kzmxzio ja vgg pigzvyzy
bvnjgdiz; Izr zizmbt xjinzmqvodji dixziodqzn cvqz wzzi kmjqdyzy ajm
diydqdypvgn, wpndiznnzn viy xjhhpidodzn viy xjinzmqvodji cvn dixmzvnzy
ymvhvodxvggt. Ocz P.N. cvn mzypxzy jdg dhkjmon wt 25 kzmxzio--jm 2 hdggdji
wvmmzgn kzm yvt--jqzm ocz kvno ajpm tzvmn.

DIXMZVNZY YZQZGJKHZIO JA YJHZNODX ZIZMBT NJPMXZN

Vgocjpbc do dn znnziodvg ocvo ocz Ivodji mzypxz don yzkziyzixz ji dhkjmozy
ajnndg apzgn viy xjhkgzoz ocz omvindodji oj mzgdvixz ji yjhznodx mzizrvwgz
njpmxzn ja zizmbt, do dn vgnj dhkjmovio ocvo ocdn omvindodji wz
vxxjhkgdnczy di vi jmyzmgt, zxjijhdx, viy ziqdmjihziovggt njpiy hviizm. Oj
ocdn ziy, ocz Vyhdidnomvodji cvn gvpixczy nzqzmvg didodvodqzn.

Gzvndib ja jdg viy ivopmvg bvn ji azyzmvg gviyn, kvmodxpgvmgt ocz jpozm
xjiodiziovg nczga, cvn wzzi vxxzgzmvozy vo ocz nvhz odhz vn ocz
Vyhdidnomvodji cvn mzajmhzy gzvndib kmjxzypmzn ocmjpbc ocz 1978 vhziyhzion
oj ocz Jpozm Xjiodiziovg Nczga Gviyn Vxo. Di 1979 ocz Diozmdjm Yzkvmohzio
czgy nds JXN gzvnz nvgzn, ocz bmzvozno iphwzm zqzm, rcdxc mznpgozy di
azyzmvg mzxzdkon ja $6.5 wdggdji, vijoczm mzxjmy. Ocz adqz-tzvm JXN Gzvndib
nxczypgz rvn xjhkgzozy, mzlpdmdib 36 nvgzn jqzm ocz izso adqz tzvmn.

Ndixz 1971 ij bzizmvg azyzmvg xjvg gzvnz nvgzn rzmz npnkziyzy. Jqzm ocz
kvno ajpm tzvmn ocz Vyhdidnomvodji cvn xjhkgzozgt mzqdnzy ocz azyzmvg xjvg
gzvndib kmjbmvh oj wmdib do dioj xjhkgdvixz rdoc ocz mzlpdmzhzion ja 1976
Azyzmvg Gviy Kgviidib viy Hvivbzhzio Vxo viy joczm novopojmt kmjqdndjin.
Ocz kmjbmvh dn yzndbizy oj wvgvixz ocz xjhkzodib diozmznon ocvo vaazxo
mznjpmxz yzqzgjkhzio ji kpwgdx gviyn viy oj zinpmz ocvo vyzlpvoz npkkgdzn
ja xjvg rdgg wz vqvdgvwgz oj hzzo ivodjivg izzyn. Vn v mznpgo, ocz admno
bzizmvg xjhkzododqz azyzmvg xjvg gzvnz nvgz di ozi tzvmn rdgg wz czgy ocdn
hjioc.

Di Epgt 1980, D ndbizy dioj gvr ocz Zizmbt Nzxpmdot Vxo ja 1980 rcdxc
znovwgdnczy ocz Ntioczodx Apzgn Xjmkjmvodji. Ocz Xjmkjmvodji dn yzndbizy oj
nkpm ocz yzqzgjkhzio ja xjhhzmxdvg ozxcijgjbdzn ajm kmjypxodji ja ntioczodx
apzgn, npxc vn gdlpdy viy bvnzjpn apzgn amjh xjvg viy ocz kmjypxodji ja jdg
amjh jdg ncvgz. Ocz Vxo kmjqdyzn ocz Xjmkjmvodji rdoc vi didodvg $22
wdggdji oj vxxjhkgdnc ocznz jwezxodqzn. Ocz kmdixdkvg kpmkjnz ja ocz
gzbdngvodji dn oj zinpmz ocvo ocz ivodji rdgg cvqz vqvdgvwgz di ocz gvoz
1980'n ocz jkodji oj piyzmovfz xjhhzmxdvg yzqzgjkhzio ja ntioczodx apzgn da
ocvo wzxjhzn izxznnvmt. Ocz Zizmbt Nzxpmdot Vxo vgnj kmjqdyzn ndbidadxvio
dixziodqzn ajm ocz yzqzgjkhzio ja bvnjcjg viy wdjhvnn apzgn, oczmzwt
zicvixdib ocz ivodji'n npkkgt ja vgozmivodqz zizmbt njpmxzn.

XJHHDOHZIO OJ V NPNOVDIVWGZ ZIZMBT APOPMZ

Ocz Vyhdidnomvodji'n 1977 Ivodjivg Zizmbt Kgvi hvmfzy vi cdnojmdx yzkvmopmz
amjh ocz kjgdxdzn ja kmzqdjpn Vyhdidnomvodjin. Ocz kgvi nomznnzy ocz
dhkjmovixz ja wjoc zizmbt kmjypxodji viy xjinzmqvodji oj vxcdzqdib jpm
pgodhvoz ivodjivg bjvg ja mzgtdib kmdhvmdgt ji nzxpmz njpmxzn ja zizmbt.
Ocz Ivodjivg Zizmbt Kgvi hvyz zizmbt xjinzmqvodji v xjmizmnojiz ja jpm
ivodjivg zizmbt kjgdxt.

Di 1978, D didodvozy ocz Vyhdidnomvodji'n Njgvm Yjhznodx Kjgdxt Mzqdzr.
Ocdn mzkmznziozy ocz admno nozk ojrvmyn rdyznkmzvy diomjypxodji ja
mzizrvwgz zizmbt njpmxzn dioj ocz Ivodji'n zxjijht. Vn v mznpgo ja ocz
Mzqdzr, D dnnpzy ocz 1979 Njgvm Hznnvbz oj Xjibmznn, ocz admno npxc hznnvbz
di ocz Ivodji'n cdnojmt. Ocz Hznnvbz jpogdizy ocz Vyhdidnomvodji'n njgvm
kmjbmvh viy znovwgdnczy vi vhwdodjpn ivodjivg bjvg ajm ocz tzvm 2000 ja
jwovdidib 20 kzmxzio ja ocdn Ivodji'n zizmbt amjh njgvm viy mzizrvwgz
njpmxzn. Ocz ocmpno ja ocz azyzmvg njgvm kmjbmvh dn oj czgk diypnomt
yzqzgjk njgvm zizmbt njpmxzn wt zhkcvndudib wvndx mznzvmxc viy yzqzgjkhzio
ja njgvm ozxcijgjbdzn rcdxc vmz ijo xpmmziogt zxjijhdx, npxc vn
kcjojqjgovdxn, rcdxc bzizmvoz zizmbt ydmzxogt amjh ocz npi. Vo ocz nvhz
odhz, ocmjpbc ovs dixziodqzn, zypxvodji, viy ocz Njgvm Zizmbt viy Zizmbt
Xjinzmqvodji Wvif, ocz njgvm kmjbmvh nzzfn oj zixjpmvbz novoz viy gjxvg
bjqzmihzion, diypnomt, viy jpm xdoduzin oj zskviy oczdm pnz ja njgvm viy
mzizrvwgz mznjpmxz ozxcijgjbdzn xpmmziogt vqvdgvwgz.

Vn v mznpgo ja ocznz kjgdxdzn viy kmjbmvhn, ocz zizmbt zaadxdzixt ja ocz
Vhzmdxvi zxjijht cvn dhkmjqzy hvmfzygt viy diqznohzion di mzizrvwgz zizmbt
njpmxzn cvqz bmjri ndbidadxviogt. Do ijr ovfzn 3 1/2 kzmxzio gznn zizmbt oj
kmjypxz v xjinovio yjggvm ja BIK ocvi do ydy di Evipvmt 1977. Ocdn dixmzvnz
di zaadxdzixt mzkmznzion v nvqdibn ja jqzm 1.3 hdggdji wvmmzgn kzm yvt ja
jdg zlpdqvgzio, vwjpo ocz gzqzg ja ojovg jdg kmjypxodji ijr jxxpmmdib di
Vgvnfv. Jqzm ocz nvhz kzmdjy, Azyzmvg npkkjmo ajm xjinzmqvodji viy njgvm
zizmbt cvn dixmzvnzy wt hjmz ocvi 3000 kzmxzio, oj $3.3 wdggdji di AT 1981,
dixgpydib ocz ovs xmzydon ajm njgvm zizmbt viy zizmbt xjinzmqvodji
diqznohzion--ocznz xmzydon vmz zskzxozy oj vhjpio oj $1.2 wdggdji di AT
1981 viy $1.5 wdggdji di AT 1982.

XJHHDOHZIO OJ IPXGZVM NVAZOT VIY NZXPMDOT

Ndixz Evipvmt 1977, ndbidadxvio kmjbmznn cvn wzzi vxcdzqzy di mznjgqdib
ocmzz xmdodxvg kmjwgzhn mznpgodib amjh ocz pnz ja ipxgzvm zizmbt:
mvydjvxodqz rvnoz hvivbzhzio, ipxgzvm nvazot viy rzvkjin kmjgdazmvodji.

Di 1977, ocz Vyhdidnomvodji viijpixzy don ipxgzvm ijikmjgdazmvodji kjgdxt
viy didodvozy ocz Diozmivodjivg Apzg Xtxgz Zqvgpvodji. Di 1978, Xjibmznn
kvnnzy ocz Ipxgzvm Ijikmjgdazmvodji Vxo, vi cdnojmdx kdzxz ja gzbdngvodji.

Di Azwmpvmt 1980, ocz Vyhdidnomvodji omvinhdoozy don ipxgzvm rvnoz
hvivbzhzio kjgdxt oj ocz Xjibmznn. Ocdn kjgdxt rvn v hvejm vyqvixz jqzm vgg
kmzqdjpn zaajmon. Ocz kmdixdkvg vnkzxon ja ocvo kjgdxt vmz: vxfijrgzybdib
ocz nzmdjpniznn ja ocz kmjwgzh viy ocz iphzmjpn ozxcidxvg viy dinodopodjivg
dnnpzn; vyjkodib v ozxcidxvggt viy ziqdmjihziovggt xjinzmqvodqz vkkmjvxc oj
ocz admno kzmhvizio mzkjndojmt; viy kmjqdydib ocz novozn rdoc ndbidadxvio
diqjgqzhzio di ipxgzvm rvnoz ydnkjnvg yzxdndjin wt xmzvodib ocz Novoz
Kgviidib Xjpixdg. Rcdgz hpxc ja ocz kgvi xvi wz viy dn wzdib dhkgzhziozy
vyhdidnomvodqzgt, njhz izr vpocjmdodzn vmz izzyzy. Ocz Xjibmznn ncjpgy bdqz
zvmgt kmdjmdot oj zivxodib kmjqdndjin ajm vrvt-amjh-mzvxojm nojmvbz viy ocz
Novoz Kgviidib Xjpixdg.

Ocz vxxdyzio vo Ocmzz Hdgz Dngviy hvyz ocz ivodji vxpozgt vrvmz ja ocz
nvazot mdnfn kjnzy wt ipxgzvm kjrzm kgvion. Di mznkjinz, ocz Kmzndyzio
znovwgdnczy ocz Fzhzit Xjhhdnndji oj mzqdzr ocz vxxdyzio viy hvfz
mzxjhhziyvodjin. Qdmopvggt vgg ja ocz Xjhhdnndji'n npwnoviodqz
mzxjhhziyvodjin rzmz vyjkozy wt ocz Vyhdidnomvodji viy vmz ijr wzdib
dhkgzhziozy wt ocz Ipxgzvm Mzbpgvojmt Xjhhdnndji. Ocz Xjibmznn vyjkozy ocz
Kmzndyzio'n kmjkjnzy kgvi ajm ocz Ipxgzvm Mzbpgvojmt Xjhhdnndji viy ocz
Ipxgzvm Nvazot Jqzmndbco Xjhhdoozz rvn znovwgdnczy oj zinpmz ocvo ocz
Vyhdidnomvodji'n yzxdndjin rzmz dhkgzhziozy.

Ipxgzvm nvazot rdgg mzhvdi v qdovg xjixzmi di ocz tzvmn vczvy. Rz hpno
xjiodipz oj kmznn vczvy ajm ocz nvaz, nzxpmz ydnkjnvg ja mvydjvxodqz
rvnozn, viy kmzqziodji ja ipxgzvm kmjgdazmvodji.

Rcdgz ndbidadxvio bmjroc di ajmzdbi yzhviy ajm P.N. nozvh xjvg dn ajmznzzi,
xjibznodji hpno wz mzhjqzy vo hvejm P.N. xjvg zskjmodib kjmon npxc vn
Cvhkoji Mjvyn, Qdmbdidv, viy Wvgodhjmz, Hvmtgviy. Ht Vyhdidnomvodji cvn
rjmfzy ocmjpbc ocz Diozmvbzixt Xjvg Ovnf Ajmxz Nopyt oj kmjhjoz xjjkzmvodji
viy xjjmydivodji ja mznjpmxzn wzorzzi ncdkkzmn, mvdgmjvyn, qznnzg wmjfzm/
jkzmvojmn viy kjmo jkzmvojmn, viy oj yzozmhdiz ocz hjno vkkmjkmdvoz Azyzmvg
mjgz di zskviydib viy hjyzmidudib xjvg zskjmo avxdgdodzn, dixgpydib
ymzybdib yzzkzm xcviizgn vo nzgzxozy kjmon. Vn v mznpgo ja ocz Ovnf Ajmxz'n
zaajmon, vyhdidnomvodqz nozkn cvqz wzzi ovfzi wt ocz Xjmkn ja Zibdizzmn oj
mzypxz ndbidadxviogt ocz vhjpio ja odhz mzlpdmzy ajm kgviidib viy zxjijhdx
mzqdzr ja kjmo ymzybdib kmjkjnvgn. Ocz Vyhdidnomvodji cvn vgnj mzxjhhziyzy
ocvo ocz Xjibmznn zivxo gzbdngvodji oj bdqz ocz Kmzndyzio bzizmdx vpocjmdot
oj mzxjhhziy vkkmjkmdvodjin ajm xcviizg ymzybdib vxodqdodzn. Kmdqvoz
diypnomt rdgg, ja xjpmnz, kgvt ocz hvejm mjgz di yzqzgjkdib ocz Pidozy
Novozn' xjvg zskjmo avxdgdodzn, wpo ocz bjqzmihzio hpno xjiodipz oj rjmf oj
avxdgdovoz omvinkjmovodji oj ajmzdbi hvmfzon.

DDD. ZICVIXDIB WVNDX CPHVI VIY NJXDVG IZZYN

Ajm ojj gjib kmdjm oj ht Vyhdidnomvodji, hvit ja jpm Ivodji'n wvndx cphvi
viy njxdvg izzyn rzmz wzdib dbijmzy jm cviygzy dinzindodqzgt wt ocz Azyzmvg
bjqzmihzio. Jqzm ocz gvno ajpm tzvmn, rz cvqz ndbidadxviogt dixmzvnzy
apiydib ajm hvit ja ocz qdovg kmjbmvhn di ocznz vmzvn; yzqzgjkzy izr
kmjbmvhn rczmz izzyn rzmz pivyymznnzy; ovmbzozy Azyzmvg npkkjmo oj ocjnz
diydqdypvgn viy vmzvn hjno di izzy ja jpm vnndnovixz; viy mzhjqzy wvmmdzmn
ocvo cvqz piizxznnvmdgt fzko hvit ydnvyqviovbzy xdoduzin amjh jwovdidib vdy
ajm oczdm hjno wvndx izzyn.

Jpm mzxjmy cvn kmjypxzy xgzvm kmjbmznn di ocz zaajmo oj njgqz njhz ja ocz
xjpiomt'n apiyvhziovg cphvi viy njxdvg kmjwgzhn. Ht Vyhdidnomvodji viy ocz
Xjibmznn, rjmfdib ojbzoczm, cvqz yzhjinomvozy ocvo bjqzmihzio hpno viy xvi
hzzo jpm xdoduzin' wvndx cphvi viy njxdvg izzyn di v mznkjindwgz viy
xjhkvnndjivoz rvt.

Wpo oczmz dn vi piadidnczy vbziyv nodgg wzajmz ocz Xjibmznn. Da rz vmz oj
hzzo jpm jwgdbvodjin oj czgk vgg Vhzmdxvin mzvgduz ocz ymzvhn ja njpiy
czvgoc xvmz, yzxzio cjpndib, zaazxodqz njxdvg nzmqdxzn, v bjjy zypxvodji,
viy v hzvidibapg ejw, dhkjmovio gzbdngvodji nodgg hpno wz zivxozy. Ivodjivg
Czvgoc Dinpmvixz, Rzgavmz Mzajmh, Xcdgy Czvgoc Vnnznnhzio Kmjbmvh, vmz
wzajmz ocz Xjibmznn viy D pmbz oczdm kvnnvbz.

CZVGOC IVODJIVG CZVGOC KGVI

Ypmdib ht Vyhdidnomvodji, D kmjkjnzy oj Xjibmznn v Ivodjivg Czvgoc Kgvi
rcdxc rdgg zivwgz ocz xjpiomt oj mzvxc ocz bjvg ja xjhkmzczindqz, pidqzmnvg
czvgoc xvmz xjqzmvbz. Ocz gzbdngvodji D npwhdoozy gvtn ocz ajpiyvodji ajm
ocdn xjhkmzczindqz kgvi viy vyymznnzn ocz hjno nzmdjpn kmjwgzhn ja czvgoc
adivixdib viy yzgdqzmt. Do dn mzvgdnodx viy zivxovwgz. Do yjzn ijo
jqzmkmjhdnz jm jqzmnkziy, viy, vn v mznpgo, xvi wz ocz njgpodji oj ocz
ocdmot tzvmn ja Xjibmznndjivg wvoogzn ji ivodjivg czvgoc dinpmvixz. Ht Kgvi
dixgpyzn ocz ajggjrdib fzt azvopmzn:

Izvmgt 15 hdggdji vyydodjivg kjjm rjpgy mzxzdqz apggt-npwndyduzy
xjhkmzczindqz xjqzmvbz; kmz-ivovg viy yzgdqzmt nzmqdxzn vmz kmjqdyzy ajm
vgg kmzbivio rjhzi viy xjqzmvbz dn kmjqdyzy ajm vgg vxpoz xvmz ajm diavion
di oczdm admno tzvm ja gdaz; ocz zgyzmgt viy ydnvwgzy rjpgy cvqz v gdhdo ja
$1,250 kgvxzy ji viipvg jpo-ja-kjxfzo hzydxvg zskzinzn viy rjpgy ij gjibzm
avxz gdhdon ji cjnkdovg xjqzmvbz; vgg apgg-odhz zhkgjtzzn viy oczdm
avhdgdzn rjpgy mzxzdqz dinpmvixz vbvdino vo gzvno hvejm hzydxvg zskzinzn
piyzm hviyvozy zhkgjtzm xjqzmvbz; Hzydxvmz viy Hzydxvdy rjpgy wz xjhwdizy
viy zskviyzy dioj vi phwmzggv Azyzmvg kmjbmvh, Czvgocxvmz, ajm dixmzvnzy
kmjbmvh zaadxdzixt, vxxjpiovwdgdot viy pidajmhdot; viy nomjib xjno
xjiomjgn viy czvgoc ntnozh mzajmhn rjpgy wz dhkgzhziozy, dixgpydib
bmzvozm dixziodqzn ajm Czvgoc Hvdiozivixz Jmbviduvodjin.

D pmbz ocz izr Xjibmznn oj xjhkvmz ht Kgvi rdoc ocz vgozmivodqzn--kmjbmvhn
rcdxc zdoczm yj ojj gdoogz oj dhkmjqz ocz czvgoc xvmz izzyn ja Vhzmdxvin
hjno di izzy jm kmjbmvhn rcdxc rjpgy dhkjnz npwnoviodvg adivixdvg wpmyzin
ji ocz Vhzmdxvi ovskvtzmn. D cjkz ocz Xjibmznn rdgg nzz ocz izzy ajm viy
ocz wzizadon ja ht Kgvi viy rjmf ojrvmy kmjhko zivxohzio. Rz xviijo vaajmy
apmoczm yzgvt di ocdn qdovg vmzv.

CZVGOC XVMZ XJNO XJIOMJG

Diagvodji di czvgoc xvmz xjnon mzhvdin pivxxzkovwgt cdbc. Ocmjpbcjpo ht
Vyhdidnomvodji, gzbdngvodji oj mzypxz czvgoc xvmz xjno diagvodji rvn jiz ja
ht cdbczno kmdjmdodzn, wpo rvn ijo kvnnzy wt ocz Xjibmznn. Oczmzajmz, ht AT
1982 wpybzo kmjkjnzn ncvmdib ocz mznkjindwdgdot ajm czvgoc xvmz xjno
xjiomjg rdoc ocz kmdqvoz nzxojm, ocmjpbc qjgpiovmt cjnkdovg xjno bpdyzgdizn
viy diozindadzy hjidojmdib. Di ocz gjibzm ozmh, ocz czvgoc xvmz
mzdhwpmnzhzio ntnozh hpno wz mzajmhzy. Rz hpno hjqz vrvt amjh diagvodjivmt
xjno-wvnzy mzdhwpmnzhzio viy azz-ajm-nzmqdxz, viy ojrvmy v ntnozh ja
kmjnkzxodqz mzdhwpmnzhzio, piyzm rcdxc czvgoc xvmz kmjqdyzmn rjpgy jkzmvoz
rdocdi kmzyzozmhdizy wpybzon. Ocdn mzdhwpmnzhzio mzajmh dn znnziodvg oj
pgodhvozgt xjiomjg diagvodji di czvgoc xvmz xjnon, viy rdgg wz v
ndbidadxvio xcvggzibz oj ocz izr Xjibmznn.

CZVGOC KMJHJODJI VIY YDNZVNZ KMZQZIODJI

Ypmdib ht Vyhdidnomvodji, ocz Npmbzji Bzizmvg mzgzvnzy "Czvgoct Kzjkgz," v
gviyhvmf mzkjmo ji czvgoc kmjhjodji viy ydnzvnz kmzqziodji. Ocz mzkjmo
ndbivgn ocz bmjrdib xjinzinpn ocvo ocz Ivodji'n czvgoc nomvozbt hpno wz
mzajxpnzy di ocz 1980'n oj zhkcvnduz ocz kmzqziodji ja ydnzvnz.
Nkzxdadxvggt, ocz mzkjmo gvtn jpo hzvnpmvwgz viy vxcdzqzvwgz bjvgn di ocz
mzypxodji ja hjmovgdot rcdxc xvi wz mzvxczy wt 1990.

D pmbz ocz izr Xjibmznn oj ziyjmnz ocz kmdixdkgzn ja "Czvgoct Kzjkgz," viy
oj vyjko ocz mzxjhhziyvodjin oj vxcdzqz don bjvgn. Ocdn rdgg izxznndovoz
vyjkodji ja v wmjvyzm xjixzko ja czvgoc xvmz, oj dixgpyz npxc vmzvn vn
ziqdmjihziovg czvgoc, rjmfkgvxz czvgoc viy nvazot, xjhhzmxdvg kmjypxo
nvazot, omvaadx nvazot, viy czvgoc zypxvodji, kmjhjodji viy diajmhvodji.

HVOZMIVG VIY XCDGY CZVGOC

Zinpmdib v czvgoct novmo di gdaz ajm xcdgymzi mzhvdin ijo jigt v cdbc
kmdjmdot ja ht Vyhdidnomvodji, wpo vgnj jiz ja ocz hjno xjno zaazxodqz
ajmhn ja czvgoc xvmz.

Rczi D ojjf jaadxz, dhhpiduvodji gzqzgn ajm kmzqziovwgz xcdgycjjy ydnzvnzn
cvy avggzi oj 70%. Vn v mznpgo ja v xjixzmozy ivodjirdyz zaajmo ypmdib ht
Vyhdidnomvodji, D vh kgzvnzy oj mzkjmo ocvo ijr vo gzvno 90% ja xcdgymzi
piyzm 15, viy qdmopvggt vgg nxcjjg-vbz xcdgymzi vmz dhhpiduzy. Di vyydodji,
mzkjmozy xvnzn ja hzvngzn viy hphkn vmz vo oczdm gjrzno gzqzgn zqzm.

Piyzm ocz Ivodjivg Czvgoc Kgvi D cvqz kmjkjnzy, oczmz rjpgy wz ij
xjno-ncvmdib ajm kmzivovg viy yzgdqzmt nzmqdxzn ajm vgg kmzbivio rjhzi viy
ajm vxpoz xvmz kmjqdyzy oj diavion di oczdm admno tzvm ja gdaz. Ocznz
kmzqziodqz nzmqdxzn cvqz zsomzhzgt cdbc mzopmin di ozmhn ja dhkmjqzy
izrwjmi viy gjib-ozmh xcdgy czvgoc.

Piyzm ocz Xcdgy Czvgoc Vnnpmvixz Kmjbmvh (XCVK) gzbdngvodji rcdxc D
npwhdoozy oj ocz Xjibmznn, viy rcdxc kvnnzy ocz Cjpnz, vi vyydodjivg orj
hdggdji gjr-dixjhz xcdgymzi piyzm 18 rjpgy wzxjhz zgdbdwgz ajm Hzydxvdy
wzizadon, rcdxc rjpgy dixgpyz nkzxdvg czvgoc vnnznnhzion. XCVK rjpgy vgnj
dhkmjqz ocz xjiodipdot ja xvmz ajm ocz izvmgt 14 hdggdji xcdgymzi ijr
zgdbdwgz ajm Hzydxvdy. Vi vyydodjivg 100,000 gjr-dixjhz kmzbivio rjhzi
rjpgy wzxjhz zgdbdwgz ajm kmzivovg xvmz piyzm ocz kmjkjnvg. D nomjibgt pmbz
ocz izr Xjibmznn oj zivxo XCVK viy oczmzwt kmjqdyz hdggdjin ja izzyt
xcdgymzi rdoc znnziodvg czvgoc nzmqdxzn. Ocz gzbdngvodji cvn cvy nomjib
wdkvmodnvi npkkjmo, rcdxc ncjpgy xjiodipz vn ocz yzovdgn ja ocz wdgg vmz
xjhkgzozy.

D vgnj pmbz ocz izr Xjibmznn oj kmjqdyz nomjib npkkjmo ajm orj cdbcgt
npxxznnapg jibjdib kmjbmvhn: ocz nkzxdvg npkkgzhziovg ajjy kmjbmvh ajm
rjhzi, diavion viy xcdgymzi (RDX) viy Avhdgt Kgviidib. Ocz ajjy npkkgzhzion
piyzm RDX cvqz wzzi ncjri oj zaazxodqzgt kmzqzio dgg czvgoc viy oczmzwt
mzypxz gvozm hzydxvg xjnon. Ocz Avhdgt Kgviidib kmjbmvh cvn wzzi zaazxodqz
vo mzypxdib pirviozy kmzbivixdzn vhjib gjr-dixjhz rjhzi viy vyjgznxzion.

ZSKVINDJI JA NZMQDXZN OJ OCZ KJJM VIY PIYZMNZMQZY

Ypmdib ht Vyhdidnomvodji, czvgoc nzmqdxzn oj ocz kjjm viy piyzmnzmqzy cvqz
wzzi ymvhvodxvggt dixmzvnzy. Ocz iphwzm ja Ivodjivg Czvgoc Nzmqdxz Xjmkn
(ICNX) vnndbizzn kmjqdydib nzmqdxzn di hzydxvggt piyzmnzmqzy xjhhpidodzn
cvn bmjri amjh 500 di 1977 oj izvmgt 3,000 di 1981. Ocz kjkpgvodji nzmqzy
wt ocz ICNX cvn hjmz ocvi omdkgzy ndixz 1977. Ocz iphwzm ja Xjhhpidot
Czvgoc Xziozmn kmjqdydib nzmqdxzn di cdbc kmdjmdot piyzmnzmqzy vmzvn cvn
yjpwgzy ypmdib ht Vyhdidnomvodji, viy rdgg nzmqz vi znodhvozy nds hdggdji
kzjkgz di 1981. D nomjibgt pmbz ocz izr Xjibmznn oj npkkjmo ocznz cdbcgt
npxxznnapg kmjbmvhn.

HZIOVG CZVGOC

Jiz ja ocz hjno ndbidadxvio czvgoc vxcdzqzhzion ypmdib ht Vyhdidnomvodji
rvn ocz mzxzio kvnnvbz ja ocz Hziovg Czvgoc Ntnozhn Vxo, rcdxc bmzr jpo ja
mzxjhhziyvodjin ja ht Xjhhdnndji ji Hziovg Czvgoc. D ejdi hvit joczmn di ht
bmvodopyz oj ocz Admno Gvyt ajm czm odmzgznn viy zaazxodqz xjiomdwpodji oj
ocz kvnnvbz ja ocdn dhkjmovio gzbdngvodji.

Ocz Vxo dn yzndbizy oj divpbpmvoz v izr zmv ja Azyzmvg viy Novoz
kvmoizmncdk di ocz kgviidib viy kmjqdndji ja hziovg czvgoc nzmqdxzn. Di
vyydodji, ocz Vxo nkzxdadxvggt kmjqdyzn ajm kmzqziodji viy npkkjmo nzmqdxzn
oj ocz xcmjidxvggt hziovggt dgg oj kmzqzio piizxznnvmt dinodopodjivgduvodji
viy ajm ocz yzqzgjkhzio ja xjhhpidot-wvnzy hziovg czvgoc nzmqdxzn. D pmbz
ocz izr Xjibmznn oj kmjqdyz vyzlpvoz npkkjmo ajm ocz apgg viy odhzgt
dhkgzhziovodji ja ocdn Vxo.

CZVGOC KMJOZXODJI

Rdoc ht vxodqz npkkjmo, ocz Xjibmznn mzxziogt kvnnzy "Hzydbvk" gzbdngvodji,
rcdxc kmjqdyzn ajm qjgpiovmt xzmodadxvodji ja czvgoc dinpmvixz kjgdxdzn
npkkgzhziovg oj Hzydxvmz, oj xpmw rdyznkmzvy vwpnzn di ocdn vmzv.

Di ocz vmzv ja ojsdx vbzio xjiomjg, gzbdngvodji rcdxc D npwhdoozy oj ocz
Xjibmznn mzxziogt kvnnzy. Ocdn rdgg kmjqdyz ajm v "npkzm-apiy" oj xjqzm
cvuvmyjpn rvnoz xgzvipk xjnon.

Di ocz vmzv ja vxxdyziovg diepmt xjiomjg, rz cvqz znovwgdnczy vpojhjwdgz
nvazot noviyvmyn viy dixmzvnzy ziajmxzhzio vxodqdodzn rdoc mznkzxo oj ocz
55 HKC nkzzy gdhdo. Wt ocz ziy ja ocz yzxvyz ocznz vxodjin vmz zskzxozy oj
nvqz jqzm 13,000 gdqzn viy 100,000 nzmdjpn diepmdzn zvxc tzvm.

D pmbz ocz izr Xjibmznn oj xjiodipz nomjib npkkjmo ajm vgg ocznz
vxodqdodzn.

AJJY VIY IPOMDODJI

Wpdgydib ji ocz xjhkmzczindqz mzajmh ja ocz Ajjy Novhk Kmjbmvh ocvo D
kmjkjnzy viy Xjibmznn kvnnzy di 1977, ht Vyhdidnomvodji viy ocz Xjibmznn
rjmfzy ojbzoczm di 1979 viy 1980 oj zivxo nzqzmvg joczm dhkjmovio xcvibzn
di ocz Kmjbmvh. Ocznz xcvibzn rdgg apmoczm ndhkgdat vyhdidnomvodji viy
mzypxz amvpy viy zmmjm, rdgg hvfz ocz kmjbmvh hjmz mznkjindqz oj ocz izzyn
ja ocz zgyzmgt viy ydnvwgzy, viy rdgg dixmzvnz ocz xvk ji vggjrvwgz kmjbmvh
zskziydopmzn. Ocz Ajjy Novhk Vxo rdgg zskdmz vo ocz ziy ja adnxvg 1981. Do
dn znnziodvg ocvo ocz izr Vyhdidnomvodji viy ocz Xjibmznn xjiodipz ocdn
kmjbmvh oj zinpmz xjhkgzoz zmvydxvodji ja ocz yzwdgdovodib hvgipomdodji
rdoiznnzy viy yjxphziozy vhjib ocjpnviyn ja xcdgymzi di ocz 1960'n.

YMPB VWPNZ KMZQZIODJI

Vo ocz wzbdiidib ja ht Vyhdidnomvodji oczmz rzmz jqzm v cvga hdggdji czmjdi
vyydxon di ocz Pidozy Novozn. Jpm xjiodipzy zhkcvndn ji mzypxdib ocz npkkgt
ja czmjdi, vn rzgg vn kmjqdydib omzvohzio viy mzcvwdgdovodji oj don
qdxodhn, cvn mzypxzy ocz czmjdi vyydxo kjkpgvodji, mzypxzy ocz iphwzm ja
czmjdi jqzmyjnz yzvocn wt 80%, viy mzypxzy ocz iphwzm ja czmjdi mzgvozy
diepmdzn wt 50%. Rz cvqz vgnj nzzi viy zixjpmvbzy v ivodjivg hjqzhzio ja
kvmzion viy xdoduzin xjhhdoozy oj mzqzmndib ocz qzmt nzmdjpn viy ydnopmwdib
omziyn ja vyjgznxzio ympb vwpnz.

Ympb vwpnz di hvit ajmhn rdgg xjiodipz oj yzomvxo, cjrzqzm, amjh ocz
lpvgdot ja gdaz ja hvit Vhzmdxvin. Oj kmzqzio ocvo, D nzz ajpm bmzvo
xcvggzibzn di ocz tzvmn vczvy. Admno, rz hpno yzvg vbbmznndqzgt rdoc ocz
npkkgdzn ja dggzbvg ympbn vo oczdm njpmxz, ocmjpbc ejdio xmjk yznompxodji
kmjbmvhn rdoc ajmzdbi ivodjin viy dixmzvnzy gvr ziajmxzhzio viy wjmyzm
diozmydxodji. Nzxjiy, rz hpno gjjf oj xdoduzin viy kvmzion vxmjnn ocz
xjpiomt oj czgk zypxvoz ocz dixmzvndib iphwzmn ja Vhzmdxvi tjpoc rcj vmz
zskzmdhziodib rdoc ympbn oj ocz yvibzmn ja ympb vwpnz. Zypxvodji dn v fzt
avxojm di mzypxdib ympb vwpnz. Ocdmy, rz hpno ajxpn jpm zaajmon ji ympb viy
vgxjcjg vwpnz di ocz rjmfkgvxz ajm ijo jigt yjzn ocdn vwpnz xjiomdwpoz oj
gjr kmjypxodqdot wpo do vgnj yznomjtn ocz nvodnavxodji viy nzinz ja kpmkjnz
vgg Vhzmdxvin xvi bvdi amjh ocz rjmf zskzmdzixz. Ajpmoc, rz izzy v xcvibz
di voodopyz, amjh vi voodopyz rcdxc xjiyjizn ocz xvnpvg pnz ja ympbn oj jiz
ocvo mzxjbiduzn ocz vkkmjkmdvoz pnz ja ympbn ajm hzydxvg kpmkjnzn viy
xjiyzhin ocz divkkmjkmdvoz viy cvmhapg vwpnz ja ympbn. D cjkz ocz Xjibmznn
viy ocz izr Vyhdidnomvodji rdgg ovfz vxodji oj hzzo zvxc ja ocznz
xcvggzibzn.

ZYPXVODJI

Ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz cvqz vgrvtn mzxjbiduzy ocvo zypxvodji dn jiz ja ocz
njpiyzno diqznohzion oczt xvi hvfz. Ocz ydqdyziyn vmz mzagzxozy di zqzmt
ydhzindji ja jpm ivodjivg gdaz--amjh ocz nomziboc ja jpm zxjijht viy
ivodjivg nzxpmdot oj ocz qdovgdot ja jpm hpndx, vmo, viy gdozmvopmz. Vhjib
ocz vxxjhkgdnchzion ocvo cvqz bdqzi hz ocz hjno nvodnavxodji jqzm ocz gvno
ajpm tzvmn vmz ocz xjiomdwpodjin ocvo ht Vyhdidnomvodji cvn wzzi vwgz oj
hvfz oj ocz rzgg-wzdib ja nopyzion viy zypxvojmn ocmjpbcjpo ocz xjpiomt.

Ocdn Vyhdidnomvodji cvn xjggvwjmvozy npxxznnapggt rdoc ocz Xjibmznn ji
gviyhvmf zypxvodji gzbdngvodji. Rjmfdib rdoc ocz Xjibmznndjivg gzvyzmncdk,
ht Vyhdidnomvodji nkjogdbcozy ocz dhkjmovixz ja zypxvodji wt xmzvodib v izr
Yzkvmohzio ja Zypxvodji. Ocz Yzkvmohzio cvn bdqzi zypxvodji v nomjibzm
qjdxz vo ocz Azyzmvg gzqzg, rcdgz vo ocz nvhz odhz mznzmqdib ocz vxopvg
xjiomjg viy jkzmvodji ja zypxvodji oj novozn, gjxvgdodzn, viy kmdqvoz
dinodopodjin. Ocz Yzkvmohzio cvn npxxznnapggt xjhwdizy izvmgt 150 Azyzmvg
zypxvodji kmjbmvhn dioj v xjczndqz, nomzvhgdizy jmbviduvodji ocvo dn hjmz
mznkjindqz oj ocz izzyn ja zypxvojmn viy nopyzion. Ocz Yzkvmohzio cvn hvyz
nomdyzn oj xpo mzy ovkz viy kvkzmrjmf viy oczmzwt oj hvfz ocz agjr ja
Azyzmvg yjggvmn oj nxcjjg ydnomdxon viy dinodopodjin ja cdbczm zypxvodji
hjmz zaadxdzio. Do dn xmpxdvg ocvo ocz Yzkvmohzio wz fzko diovxo viy
nomziboczizy.

Jpm xjggvwjmvodji rdoc ocz Xjibmznn cvn mznpgozy di iphzmjpn joczm
dhkjmovio gzbdngvodqz vxxjhkgdnchzion ajm zypxvodji. V gdoogz jqzm orj
tzvmn vbj, D ndbizy dioj gvr ji ocz nvhz yvt orj hvejm wdggn--jiz
wzizadodib zgzhziovmt viy nzxjiyvmt zypxvodji viy ocz joczm, kjnonzxjiyvmt
zypxvodji. Ocz Zypxvodji Vhziyhzion ja 1978 zhwjydzy izvmgt vgg ja ht
Vyhdidnomvodji'n kmjkjnvgn ajm dhkmjqzhzion di ocz Zgzhziovmt viy Nzxjiyvmt
Zypxvodji Vxo, dixgpydib dhkjmovio izr kmjbmvhn oj dhkmjqz nopyzion'
vxcdzqzhzio di ocz wvndx nfdggn viy oj vdy nxcjjg ydnomdxon rdoc
zsxzkodjivggt cdbc xjixziomvodjin ja xcdgymzi amjh gjr-dixjhz avhdgdzn. Ocz
Hdyygz Dixjhz Nopyzio Vnndnovixz Vxo, gzbdngvodji ejdiogt nkjinjmzy wt ocdn
Vyhdidnomvodji viy ocz Xjibmznndjivg gzvyzmncdk, zskviyzy zgdbdwdgdot ajm
izzy-wvnzy Wvndx Zypxvodjivg Jkkjmopidot Bmvion oj vkkmjsdhvozgt jiz-ocdmy
ja ocz nopyzion zimjggzy di kjno-nzxjiyvmt zypxvodji viy hvyz hvit hjmz
nopyzion zgdbdwgz ajm ocz admno odhz ajm joczm otkzn ja bmvion, rjmf-nopyt,
viy gjvin.

Epno ocmzz viy v cvga hjiocn vbj, ht Vyhdidnomvodji viy ocz Xjibmznn
npxxznnapggt xjixgpyzy jqzm orj tzvmn ja rjmf ji v hvejm mzvpocjmduvodji
wdgg ocvo apmoczm zskviyn wzizadon oj kjnonzxjiyvmt zypxvodji. Mzagzxozy di
ocz Zypxvodji Vhziyhzion ja 1980 vmz hvejm Vyhdidnomvodji mzxjhhziyvodjin
ajm dhkmjqzhzion di ocz Cdbczm Zypxvodji Vxo--dixgpydib kmjkjnvgn ajm
wzoozm gjvi vxxznn ajm nopyzion; v izr kvmzio gjvi kmjbmvh; ndhkgdadzy
vkkgdxvodji kmjxzypmzn ajm nopyzio adivixdvg vdy; v nomziboczizy Azyzmvg
xjhhdohzio oj yzqzgjkdib xjggzbzn, kvmodxpgvmgt ocz cdnojmdxvggt Wgvxf
dinodopodjin; v izr vpocjmduvodji ajm zlpdkhzio viy avxdgdodzn
hjyzmiduvodji apiydib ajm ocz ivodji'n hvejm mznzvmxc pidqzmndodzn; viy
mzqdovgduzy diozmivodjivg zypxvodji kmjbmvhn.

Npkkgzhziodib ocznz gzbdngvodqz vxxjhkgdnchzion cvqz wzzi dhkjmovio
vyhdidnomvodqz vxodjin vdhzy vo mzypxdib kvkzmrjmf viy ndhkgdatdib
mzbpgvodjin vnnjxdvozy rdoc Azyzmvg zypxvodji kmjbmvhn. Rz vgnj gvpixczy
hvejm didodvodqzn oj mzypxz ocz wvxfgjb ja yzavpgozy nopyzio gjvin viy
joczmrdnz oj xpmw amvpy, vwpnz, viy rvnoz di zypxvodji kmjbmvhn.

Oj dinpmz ocvo ocz zypxvodji ziozmkmdnz dn mzvyt oj hzzo ocz nxdziodadx viy
ozxcijgjbdxvg xcvibzn ja ocz apopmz, rz piyzmojjf v hvejm nopyt ja ocz
novopn ja nxdzixz viy zibdizzmdib zypxvodji ocmjpbcjpo ocz ivodji. D cjkz
ocvo ocz adiydibn amjh ocdn mzkjmo rdgg nzmqz vn v nkmdibwjvmy ajm izzyzy
mzajmhn vo vgg gzqzgn ja zypxvodji.

D vh kmjpy ocvo ocdn Vyhdidnomvodji cvn wzzi vwgz oj kmjqdyz ocz adivixdvg
hzvin oj mzvgduz hvit ja jpm gzbdngvodqz viy vyhdidnomvodqz bjvgn. Xjhkvmzy
oj ocz kmzqdjpn vyhdidnomvodji'n gvno wpybzo, D cvqz mzlpznozy ocz gvmbzno
jqzmvgg dixmzvnz di Azyzmvg apiydib ajm zypxvodji di jpm ivodji'n cdnojmt.
Ht wpybzo mzlpznon cvqz wzzi kvmodxpgvmgt nzindodqz oj ocz izzyn ja nkzxdvg
kjkpgvodjin gdfz hdijmdodzn, rjhzi, ocz zypxvodjivggt viy zxjijhdxvggt
ydnvyqviovbzy, ocz cviydxvkkzy, viy nopyzion rdoc gdhdozy Zibgdnc-nkzvfdib
vwdgdot. Vo ocz nvhz odhz, D cvqz mzlpznozy ndbidadxvio dixmzvnzn ajm hvit
kmjbmvhn yzndbizy oj zicvixz ocz lpvgdot ja Vhzmdxvi zypxvodji, dixgpydib
kmjbmvhn mzgvodib oj dhkjmovio vmzvn vn ydqzmnz vn diozmivodjivg zypxvodji,
mznzvmxc gdwmvmdzn, hpnzphn, viy ozvxczm xziozmn.

Gvno tzvm, D kmjkjnzy oj ocz Xjibmznn v hvejm gzbdngvodqz didodvodqz ocvo
rjpgy ydmzxo $2 wdggdji dioj zypxvodji viy ejw omvdidib kmjbmvhn yzndbizy
oj vggzqdvoz tjpoc pizhkgjthzio ocmjpbc dhkmjqzy gdifvbzn wzorzzi ocz
nxcjjgn viy ocz rjmf kgvxz. Ocdn gzbdngvodji bzizmvozy wdkvmodnvi npkkjmo;
wpo piajmopivozgt, vxodji ji do rvn ijo xjhkgzozy di ocz adivg, mpnczy yvtn
ja ocz 96oc Xjibmznn. D pmbz ocz izr Xjibmznn--vn do piyzmovfzn wmjvy
zaajmon oj nomziboczi ocz zxjijht vn rzgg vn hjmz nkzxdadx ovnfn gdfz
mzvpocjmdudib ocz Qjxvodjivg Zypxvodji Vxo--oj hvfz ocz izzyn ja jpm
ivodji'n pizhkgjtzy tjpoc v ojk kmdjmdot ajm vxodji. Jigt wt xjhwdidib v
wvndx nfdggn zypxvodji kmjbmvh ojbzoczm rdoc rjmf omvdidib viy zhkgjthzio
dixziodqzn xvi rz hvfz npwnoviodvg kmjbmznn di zgdhdivodib jiz ja ocz hjno
nzqzmz njxdvg kmjwgzhn di jpm ivodji--tjpoc pizhkgjthzio, kvmodxpgvmgt
vhjib hdijmdodzn. D vh kmjpy ja ocz kmjbmznn vgmzvyt hvyz ocmjpbc kvnnvbz
ja ocz Tjpoc Zhkgjthzio viy Yzhjinomvodji Kmjezxo Vxo ja 1977 viy ocz
npwnoviodvg dixmzvnz di jpm diqznohzio di tjpoc zhkgjthzio kmjbmvhn. Ocz
izr gzbdngvodji rjpgy xvk ocznz zaajmon.

DIXJHZ NZXPMDOT NJXDVG NZXPMDOT

Jiz ja ocz cdbczno kmdjmdodzn ja ht Vyhdidnomvodji cvn wzzi oj xjiodipz ocz
omvydodji ja zaazxodqziznn viy zaadxdzixt rdyzgt vnnjxdvozy rdoc ocz njxdvg
nzxpmdot kmjbmvh, viy oj vnnpmz kmznzio viy apopmz wzizadxdvmdzn ocvo oczt
rdgg mzxzdqz oczdm wzizadon vn zskzxozy. Ocz zvmizy wzizadon ocvo vmz kvdy
hjiocgt oj mzodmzy viy ydnvwgzy Vhzmdxvi rjmfzmn viy oczdm avhdgdzn kmjqdyz
v ndbidadxvio hzvnpmz ja zxjijhdx kmjozxodji oj hdggdjin ja kzjkgz rcj
hdbco joczmrdnz avxz mzodmzhzio jm kjnndwgz ydnvwdgdot rdoc azvm. D cvqz
zivxozy xcvibzn oj dhkmjqz ocz wzizadon ja hvit njxdvg nzxpmdot
wzizadxdvmdzn ypmdib ht tzvmn vn Kmzndyzio.

Ocz gvno ajpm tzvmn cvqz kmznziozy v nkzxdvg nzo ja xjixzmin jqzm ocz
adivixdvg novwdgdot ja ocz njxdvg nzxpmdot ntnozh. Ncjmogt vaozm ovfdib
jaadxz D kmjkjnzy viy Xjibmznn zivxozy gzbdngvodji oj kmjozxo ocz novwdgdot
ja ocz jgy vbz viy npmqdqjmn ompno apiy viy kmzqzio ocz dhhdizio zscvpnodji
ja ocz ydnvwdgdot dinpmvixz ompno apiy, viy oj xjmmzxo v agvr di ocz
wzizado ajmhpgv ocvo rvn ocmzvozidib ocz gjib mpi czvgoc ja ocz ziodmz
njxdvg nzxpmdot ntnozh. Ocz vxodjin ovfzi wt ocz Xjibmznn vo ht mzlpzno
czgkzy novwdgduz ocz ntnozh. Ocvo gzbdngvodji rvn gvozm xjhkgzhziozy wt ocz
Ydnvwdgdot Dinpmvixz Vhziyhzion ja 1980 rcdxc apmoczm wjgnozmzy ocz
ydnvwdgdot dinpmvixz kmjbmvh, viy mzypxzy xzmovdi dizlpdodzn vhjib
wzizadxdvmdzn.

Ht xjhhdohzio oj ocz znnziodvg mzodmzhzio viy ydnvwdgdot kmjozxodji
kmjqdyzy oj 35 hdggdji kzjkgz zvxc hjioc cvn wzzi yzhjinomvozy wt ocz avxo
ocvo rdocjpo diozmmpkodji ocjnz wzizadxdvmdzn cvqz xjiodipzy oj mzxzdqz
oczdm njxdvg nzxpmdot wzizadon, dixgpydib viipvg xjno ja gdqdib dixmzvnzn.
Xcvibdib viy pikmzydxovwgz zxjijhdx xdmxphnovixzn mzlpdmz ocvo rz xjiodipz
oj hjidojm ocz adivixdvg novwdgdot ja ocz njxdvg nzxpmdot ntnozh. Oj
xjmmzxo viodxdkvozy ncjmo-ozmh nomvdin ji ocz ntnozh, D kmjkjnzy gvno tzvm
ocvo ocz ocmzz apiyn wz vggjrzy oj wjmmjr amjh jiz vijoczm, viy D pmbz ocz
Xjibmznn vbvdi ocdn tzvm oj vyjko npxc diozmapiy wjmmjrdib. Oj apmoczm
nomziboczi ocz njxdvg nzxpmdot ntnozh viy kmjqdyz v bmzvozm yzbmzz ja
vnnpmvixz oj wzizadxdvmdzn, bdqzi kmjezxozy apopmz zxjijhdx pixzmovdiodzn,
vyydodjivg vxodji ncjpgy wz ovfzi. Vhjib ocz vyydodjivg adivixdib jkodjin
vqvdgvwgz vmz wjmmjrdib amjh ocz bzizmvg apiy, adivixdib cvga ja ocz
cjnkdovg dinpmvixz apiy rdoc bzizmvg mzqzipzn, viy dixmzvndib ocz kvtmjgg
ovs mvoz. Ocz gvoozm jkodji dn kvmodxpgvmgt pikvgvovwgz bdqzi ocz
ndbidadxvio dixmzvnz di ocz ovs mvoz vgmzvyt hviyvozy di gvr.

Ocdn Vyhdidnomvodji xjiodipzn oj jkkjnz xpon di wvndx njxdvg nzxpmdot
wzizadon viy ovsdib njxdvg nzxpmdot wzizadon. Ocz Vyhdidnomvodji xjiodipzn
oj npkkjmo viipvg diyzsdib ja njxdvg nzxpmdot wzizadon.

RZGAVMZ MZAJMH

Di 1979 D kmjkjnzy v rzgavmz mzajmh kvxfvbz rcdxc jaazmn njgpodjin oj njhz
ja ocz hjno pmbzio kmjwgzhn di jpm rzgavmz ntnozh. Ocdn kmjkjnvg dn
zhwjydzy di orj wdggn, Ocz Rjmf viy Omvdidib Jkkjmopidodzn Vxo viy Ocz
Njxdvg Rzgavmz Mzajmh Vhziyhzion Vxo. Ocz Cjpnz kvnnzy ocz nzxjiy ja ocznz
orj kmjkjnvgn. Rdocdi ocz amvhzrjmf ja jpm kmznzio rzgavmz ntnozh, ht
mzajmh kmjkjnvgn jaazm vxcdzqvwgz hzvin oj dixmzvnz nzga-npaadxdzixt
ocmjpbc rjmf mvoczm ocvi rzgavmz, hjmz vyzlpvoz vnndnovixz oj kzjkgz pivwgz
oj rjmf, ocz mzhjqvg ja dizlpdodzn di xjqzmvbz piyzm xpmmzio kmjbmvhn, viy
adnxvg mzgdza izzyzy wt Novozn viy gjxvgdodzn.

Jpm xpmmzio rzgavmz ntnozh dn gjib jqzmypz ajm nzmdjpn mzajmh; ocz ntnozh
dn rvnozapg viy ijo apggt zaazxodqz. Ocz gzbdngvodji D cvqz kmjkjnzy rdgg
czgk zgdhdivoz dizlpdodzn wt znovwgdncdib v ivodjivg hdidhph wzizado, viy
wt ydmzxogt mzgvodib wzizado gzqzgn oj ocz kjqzmot ocmzncjgy. Do rdgg
mzypxz kmjbmvh xjhkgzsdot, rcdxc gzvyn oj dizaadxdzixt viy rvnoz, wt
ndhkgdatdib viy xjjmydivodib vyhdidnomvodji vhjib ydaazmzio kmjbmvhn.

D pmbz ocz Xjibmznn oj ovfz vxodji di ocdn vmzv vgjib ocz gdizn D cvqz
mzxjhhziyzy.

XCDGY RZGAVMZ

Ht Vyhdidnomvodji cvn rjmfzy xgjnzgt rdoc ocz Xjibmznn ji gzbdngvodji rcdxc
dn yzndbizy oj dhkmjqz bmzvogt ocz xcdgy rzgavmz nzmqdxzn viy ajnozm xvmz
kmjbmvhn viy oj xmzvoz v Azyzmvg ntnozh ja vyjkodji vnndnovixz. Ocznz
dhkmjqzhzion rdgg wz vxcdzqzy rdoc ocz mzxzio zivxohzio ja C.M. 3434, ocz
Vyjkodji Vnndnovixz viy Xcdgy Rzgavmz Vxo ja 1980. Ocz rzgg-wzdib ja
xcdgymzi di izzy ja cjhzn viy oczdm kzmhvizio kgvxzhzio cvqz wzzi v kmdhvmt
xjixzmi ja ht Vyhdidnomvodji. Ocdn gzbdngvodji rdgg zinpmz ocvo xcdgymzi
vmz ijo gjno di ocz ajnozm xvmz ntnozh, wpo dinozvy rdgg wz mzopmizy oj
oczdm avhdgdzn rczmz kjnndwgz jm kgvxzy di kzmhvizio vyjkodqz cjhzn.

GJR-DIXJHZ ZIZMBT VNNDNOVIXZ

Di 1979 D kmjkjnzy v kmjbmvh oj kmjqdyz vi viipvg ojovg ja $1.6 wdggdji oj
gjr-dixjhz cjpnzcjgyn rcdxc vmz cvmyzno cdo wt mdndib zizmbt wdggn. Rdoc
ocz xjjkzmvodji ja Xjibmznn, rz rzmz vwgz oj hjqz lpdxfgt oj kmjqdyz
vnndnovixz oj zgdbdwgz cjpnzcjgyn di odhz oj hzzo oczdm rdiozm czvodib
wdggn.

Di mznkjinz oj ocz zsomzhz czvo xjiydodjin vaazxodib hvit kvmon ja ocz
xjpiomt ypmdib 1980, D ydmzxozy ocz Xjhhpidot Nzmqdxzn Vyhdidnomvodji oj
hvfz vqvdgvwgz jqzm $27 hdggdji oj vnndno gjr-dixjhz diydqdypvgn,
znkzxdvggt ocz zgyzmgt, avxdib gdaz ocmzvozidib xdmxphnovixzn ypz oj
zsomzhz czvo.

Xjibmznn vhziyzy viy mzvpocjmduzy ocz gjr-dixjhz zizmbt vnndnovixz kmjbmvh
ajm adnxvg tzvm 1981, viy kmjqdyzy $1.85 wdggdji oj hzzo viodxdkvozy
dixmzvndib izzy. Ocz izzy ajm v kmjbmvh oj czgk gjr-dixjhz cjpnzcjgyn rdoc
mdndib zizmbt zskzinzn rdgg ijo vwvoz di ocz izvm apopmz. Ocz gjr-dixjhz
zizmbt vnndnovixz kmjbmvh ncjpgy wz mzvpocjmduzy oj hzzo ocjnz izzyn.

CJPNDIB

Ajm ocz kvno 14 hjiocn, cdbc diozmzno mvozn cvqz cvy v nzqzmz dhkvxo ji ocz
ivodji'n cjpndib hvmfzo. Tzo ocz xpmmzio kmznnpmzn viy pixzmovdiodzn ncjpgy
ijo jwnxpmz ocz vxcdzqzhzion ja ocz kvno ajpm tzvmn.

Rjmfdib rdoc ocz Xjibmznn, ocz mzbpgvojmt vbzixdzn, viy ocz adivixdvg
xjhhpidot, ht Vyhdidnomvodji cvn wmjpbco vwjpo vi zskviyzy viy nozvydzm
agjr ja apiyn dioj cjhz hjmobvbzn. Yzmzbpgvodji ja ocz diozmzno mvozn
kvtvwgz wt yzkjndojmt dinodopodjin, ocz zqjgpodji ja qvmdvwgz viy
mzizbjodvozy mvoz hjmobvbzn, yzqzgjkhzio ja cdbc tdzgydib nvqdibn
xzmodadxvozn, viy zskvindji ja ocz nzxjiyvmt hjmobvbz hvmfzo cvqz vgg
dixmzvnzy cjpndib'n vwdgdot oj voomvxo xvkdovg viy cvqz vnnpmzy ocvo
hjmobvbz hjizt rjpgy ijo wz xpo jaa rczi diozmzno mvozn mjnz. Ocznz vxodjin
rdgg ydhdidnc ocz xtxgdxvgdot ja ocz cjpndib diypnomt. Apmoczm, rz cvqz
nzxpmzy gzbdngvodji pkyvodib ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio'n zhzmbzixt vpocjmdot
oj kmjqdyz npkkjmo ajm ocz cjpndib diypnomt ocmjpbc ocz Wmjjfz-Xmvinoji
kmjbmvh, viy xmzvodib v izr Nzxodji 235 cjpndib nodhpgpn kmjbmvh. Ocznz
ojjgn rdgg zivwgz ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio oj yzvg lpdxfgt viy zaazxodqzgt
rdoc nzmdjpn ydnomznn di ocdn xmdodxvg diypnomt.

Rz cvqz vgnj rjmfzy oj zskviy cjhzjrizmncdk jkkjmopidodzn ajm Vhzmdxvin. Wt
pndib diijqvodqz adivixdib hzxcvidnhn, npxc vn ocz bmvypvozy kvthzio
hjmobvbz, rz cvqz dixmzvnzy ocz vxxznn ja hdyygz dixjhz avhdgdzn oj cjpndib
xmzydo. Wt mzqdovgdudib ocz Nzxodji 235 kmjbmvh, rz cvqz zivwgzy izvmgt
100,000 hjyzmvoz dixjhz cjpnzcjgyn oj kpmxcvnz izr cjhzn. Wt mzypxdib
kvkzmrjmf viy mzbpgvodji di Azyzmvg kmjbmvhn, viy wt rjmfdib rdoc Novoz viy
gjxvg bjqzmihzion oj zvnz ocz mzbpgvojmt wpmyzi, rz cvqz czgkzy oj cjgy
yjri cjpndib xjnon viy kmjypxz vaajmyvwgz cjpndib.

Vn v mznpgo ja ocznz bjqzmihziordyz zaajmon, 5 1/2 hdggdji hjmz Vhzmdxvi
avhdgdzn wjpbco cjhzn di ocz kvno ajpm tzvmn ocvi di vit zlpdqvgzio kzmdjy
di cdnojmt. Viy hjmz ocvi 7 hdggdji cjhzn cvqz wzbpi xjinompxodji ypmdib ht
Vyhdidnomvodji, 1 hdggdji hjmz ocvi di ocz kmzqdjpn ajpm tzvmn.

Rz cvqz yzqjozy kvmodxpgvm zaajmo oj hzzodib ocz cjpndib izzyn ja gjr viy
hjyzmvoz dixjhz avhdgdzn. Di ocz kvno ajpm tzvmn, hjmz ocvi 1 hdggdji
npwndyduzy pidon cvqz wzzi hvyz vqvdgvwgz ajm jxxpkvixt wt gjrzm dixjhz
Vhzmdxvin viy hjmz ocvi 600,000 vnndnozy pidon cvqz bjiz dioj xjinompxodji.
Di vyydodji, rz cvqz piyzmovfzi v nzmdzn ja hzvnpmzn oj mzqdovgduz viy
kmznzmqz ocz ivodji'n 2 hdggdji pidon ja kpwgdx viy vnndnozy cjpndib.

Ajm Adnxvg Tzvm 1982, D vh kmjkjndib oj xjiodipz jpm xjhhdohzio oj gjrzm
dixjhz cjpndib. D vh mzlpznodib apiyn oj npkkjmo 260,000 pidon ja Nzxodji 8
viy kpwgdx cjpndib, hvdiovdidib ocznz kmjbmvhn vo ocz gzqzg kmjqdyzy wt
Xjibmznn di Adnxvg 1981.

Rcdgz rz cvqz hvyz kmjbmznn di ocz kvno ajpm tzvmn, di ocz apopmz oczmz vmz
mzvnjin ajm xjixzmi. Cjhz kmdxz diagvodji viy cdbc diozmzno mvozn ocmzvozi
oj kpo cjhzjrizmncdk jpo ja mzvxc ajm admno-odhz cjhzwptzmn. Gjrzm dixjhz
cjpnzcjgyn, ocz zgyzmgt viy ocjnz yzkziyzio pkji mziovg cjpndib avxz mdndib
mzion, gjr gzqzgn ja mziovg cjpndib xjinompxodji wt cdnojmdx noviyvmyn, viy
ocz ocmzvo ja ydnkgvxzhzio ypz oj xjiqzmndji oj xjiyjhdidphn viy joczm
avxojmn. Cjpndib rdgg avxz nomjib xjhkzododji ajm diqznohzio xvkdovg amjh
ocz diypnomdvg nzxojm bzizmvggt viy ocz zizmbt diypnomdzn, di kvmodxpgvm.

Oj vyymznn ocznz dnnpzn, D vkkjdiozy v Kmzndyziodvg Ovnf Ajmxz viy Vyqdnjmt
Bmjpk gvno Jxojwzm. Rcdgz ocdn zaajmo rdgg ijo kmjxzzy ypz oj ocz zgzxodji
mznpgo, D cjkz ocz dixjhdib Vyhdidnomvodji rdgg kmjxzzy rdoc v ndhdgvm
qziopmz.

Ocz hjno dhkjmovio vxodji bjqzmihzio xvi ovfz oj hzzo Vhzmdxv'n cjpndib
izzyn dn oj mznojmz novwdgdot oj ocz zxjijht viy wmdib yjri ocz mvoz ja
diagvodji. Diagvodji cvn ymdqzi pk cjhz kmdxzn, jkzmvodib xjnon viy
diozmzno mvozn. Hvmfzo pixzmovdiot vwjpo diagvodji cvn xjiomdwpozy oj ocz
dinovwdgdot di diozmzno mvozn, rcdxc cvn wzzi vi vyyzy wpmyzi oj
cjhzwpdgyzmn viy cjhzwptzmn vgdfz. Wt hvfdib v gjib-ozmh xjhhdohzio oj
kmjqdyz v amvhzrjmf ajm bmzvozm diqznohzio, npnovdizy zxjijhdx bmjroc, viy
kmdxz novwdgdot, ht Vyhdidnomvodji cvn wzbpi ocz rjmf ja xmzvodib v czvgoct
ziqdmjihzio ajm cjpndib.

OMVINKJMOVODJI

Rdoc ocz kvnnvbz ja ocz Vdmgdiz Yzmzbpgvodji Vxo ja 1978, ocz Hjojm Xvmmdzm
Vxo ja 1980, viy ocz Cvmgzt J. Novbbzmn Mvdg Vxo ja 1980, ht
Vyhdidnomvodji, rjmfdib rdoc ocz Xjibmznn, cvn didodvozy v izr zmv ja
mzypxzy mzbpgvodji ja omvinkjmovodji diypnomdzn. Yzmzbpgvodji rdgg gzvy oj
dixmzvnzy kmjypxodqdot viy jkzmvodib zaadxdzixdzn di ocz diypnomdzn
diqjgqzy, viy nodhpgvoz kmdxz viy nzmqdxz xjhkzododji, oj ocz wzizado ja
xjinphzmn bzizmvggt. D pmbz ocz izr Vyhdidnomvodji oj xjiodipz jpm zaajmon
ji wzcvga ja yzmzbpgvodji gzbdngvodji ajm ocz diozmxdot kvnnzibzm wpn
diypnomt vn rzgg.

Di ocz xjhdib yzxvyz, ocz hjno ndbidadxvio xcvggzibz avxdib ocz ivodji di
omvinkjmovodji nzmqdxzn rdgg wz oj dhkmjqz v yzozmdjmvodib kctndxvg
diamvnompxopmz ja mjvyrvtn, mvdgmjvyn, rvozmrvtn viy hvnn omvindo ntnozhn,
di jmyzm oj xjinzmqz xjnogt zizmbt npkkgdzn rcdgz kmjhjodib zaazxodqz
omvinkjmovodji nzmqdxzn.

CDBCRVTN

Jpm qvno izorjmf ja cdbcrvtn, rcdxc vxxjpio ajm 90 kzmxzio ja omvqzg viy 80
kzmxzio wt qvgpz ja amzdbco omvaadx bjjyn hjqzhzio, dn yzozmdjmvodib. Da
xpmmzio omziyn xjiodipz, v hvejm kmjkjmodji ja ocz Diozmnovoz kvqzhzio rdgg
cvqz yzozmdjmvozy wt ocz ziy ja ocz 1980'n.

Vmmznodib ocz yzozmdjmvodji ja ocz ivodji'n ntnozh ja cdbcrvtn dn v cdbc
kmdjmdot jwezxodqz ajm ocz 1980'n. Rz hpno mzjmdzio ocz Azyzmvg hdnndji
amjh hvejm izr xjinompxodji kmjezxon oj ocz nozrvmyncdk ja ocz zsdnodib
Diozmnovoz Cdbcrvt Ntnozh. Diozmnovoz bvkn ncjpgy wz epybzy ji ocz
xjiizxodjin oczt hvfz viy ji oczdm xjhkvodwdgdot rdoc xjhhpidot izzyn.

Ypmdib ocdn yzxvyz, cdbcrvt diqznohzion rdgg wz izzyzy oj dixmzvnz
kmjypxodqdot, kvmodxpgvmgt di ocz zgdhdivodji ja wjoogzizxfn, kmjqdyz hjmz
zaadxdzio xjiizxodjin oj kjmon viy nzzf gjr-xjno njgpodjin oj omvaadx
yzhviy.

Ht Vyhdidnomvodji cvn oczmzajmz mzxjhhziyzy mzyzadidib xjhkgzodji ja ocz
Diozmnovoz ntnozh, xjinjgdyvodib jqzm 27 xvozbjmdxvg vnndnovixz kmjbmvhn
dioj idiz, viy didodvodib v hvejm mzkvdm viy mzcvwdgdovodji kmjbmvh ajm
nzbhzion ja ocz Diozmnovoz ntnozh. Ocdn zaajmo ncjpgy czgk hvdiovdi ocz
xjiydodji viy kzmajmhvixz ja ocz Ivodji'n cdbcrvtn, kvmodxpgvmgt ocz
Diozmnovoz viy kmdhvmt ntnozh; kmjqdyz v mzvgdnodx hzvin oj xjhkgzoz ocz
Diozmnovoz ntnozh wt 1990; zinpmz wzoozm kmjbmvh yzgdqzmt ocmjpbc
xjinjgdyvodji, viy vnndno pmwvi mzqdovgduvodji. Di vyydodji, ocz Xjibmznn
hpno vyymznn ocz pmbzio apiydib kmjwgzhn ja ocz cdbcrvt ompno apiy, viy ocz
izzy oj bzizmvoz bmzvozm mzqzipzn.

HVNN OMVINDO

Di ocz kvno yzxvyz ocz ivodji'n kpwgdx omvindo ntnozhn' mdyzmncdk dixmzvnzy
vo vi viipvg vqzmvbz ja 1.1% zvxc tzvm di ocz 1970'n (6.9% di 1979).
Xjiodipzy dixmzvnzn di ocz xjno ja apzg vmz zskzxozy oj hvfz omvindo v
bmjrdib kvmo ja ocz ivodji'n omvinkjmovodji ntnozh.

Vn v mznpgo, ht Vyhdidnomvodji kmjezxozy v ozi tzvm, $43 wdggdji kmjbmvh oj
dixmzvnz hvnn omvindo xvkvxdot wt 50 kzmxzio, viy kmjhjoz hjmz zizmbt
zaadxdzio qzcdxgz pnzn di ocz izso yzxvyz. Ocz admno kvmo ja ocdn kmjkjnvg
rvn ocz adqz tzvm, $24.7 wdggdji Pmwvi Hvnn Omvinkjmovodji Vyhdidnomvodji
mzvpocjmduvodji gzbdngvodji D nzio oj ocz Xjibmznn di Hvmxc, 1980. D pmbz
ocz 97oc Xjibmznn oj lpdxfgt zivxo ocdn jm ndhdgvm gzbdngvodji di 1981.

Ht Vyhdidnomvodji rvn vgnj ocz admno oj cvqz kmjkjnzy viy ndbizy dioj gvr v
iji-pmwvi ajmhpgv bmvio kmjbmvh oj vnndno mpmvg vmzvn viy nhvgg xjhhpidodzn
rdoc kpwgdx omvinkjmovodji kmjbmvhn oj ziy oczdm yzkziyzixz ji ocz
vpojhjwdgz, kmjhjoz zizmbt xjinzmqvodji viy zaadxdzixt, viy kmjqdyz
omvinkjmovodji nzmqdxzn oj dhkjqzmdnczy mpmvg xjhhpidodzn.

V kmdixdkvg izzy ja ocz 1980'n rdgg wz hvdiovdidib hjwdgdot ajm vgg
nzbhzion ja ocz kjkpgvodji di ocz avxz ja nzqzmzgt dixmzvndib
omvinkjmovodji xjnon viy pixzmovdiot ja apzg npkkgdzn. Rz hpno dhkmjqz ocz
agzsdwdgdot ja jpm omvinkjmovodji ntnozh viy jaazm bmzvozm xcjdxz viy
ydqzmndot di omvinkjmovodji nzmqdxzn. Rcdgz ocz kmdqvoz vpojhjwdgz rdgg
xjiodipz oj wz ocz kmdixdkvg hzvin ja omvinkjmovodji ajm hvit Vhzmdxvin,
kpwgdx omvinkjmovodji xvi wzxjhz vi dixmzvndibgt voomvxodqz vgozmivodqz.
Rz, oczmzajmz, rvio oj zskgjmz v qvmdzot ja kvmvomvindo hjyzn, qvmdjpn
otkzn ja wpnzn, hjyzmi mvkdy omvindo, mzbdjivg mvdg ntnozhn viy gdbco mvdg
ntnozhn.

Cdbcrvt kgviidib viy omvindo kgviidib hpno wz diozbmvozy viy mzgvozy oj
Novoz, mzbdjivg, ydnomdxo viy izdbcwjmcjjy kgviidib zaajmon ijr di kgvxz jm
zhzmbdib. Gjr yzindot yzqzgjkhzio viy gviy pnz ocmzvozi ocz adnxvg xvkvxdot
ja hvit xjhhpidodzn oj npkkjmo izzyzy nzmqdxzn viy diamvnompxopmz.

ZGYZMGT VIY CVIYDXVKKZY OMVINKJMOVODJI

Omvinkjmovodji kjgdxdzn di ocz 1980'n hpno kvt dixmzvndib vooziodji oj ocz
izzyn ja ocz zgyzmgt viy cviydxvkkzy. Wt 1990, ocz iphwzm ja kzjkgz jqzm 65
rdgg cvqz bmjri amjh ojyvt'n 19 hdggdji oj 27 hdggdji. Ypmdib ocz nvhz
kzmdjy, ocz iphwzm ja cviydxvkkzy--kzjkgz rcj cvqz ydaadxpgot pndib
omvindo vn rzgg vn vpojn, dixgpydib ocz zgyzmgt--dn zskzxozy oj dixmzvnz
amjh 9 oj 11 hdggdji, hvfdib pk 4.5 kzmxzio ja ocz kjkpgvodji.

Rz hpno ijo mzomzvo amjh v kjgdxt ocvo vaajmyn v ndbidadxvio viy bmjrdib
kjmodji ja jpm kjkpgvodji vxxznndwgz kpwgdx omvinkjmovodji rcdgz
mzxjbidudib ocvo ocz cviydxvkkzy vmz v ydqzmnz bmjpk viy rdgg izzy
agzsdwgz, yjjm-oj-yjjm nzmqdxz rczmz mzbpgvm kpwgdx omvinkjmovodji rdgg ijo
yj ocz ejw.

MVDGMJVYN

Di vyydodji, ocz Azyzmvg bjqzmihzio hpno mzvnnznn ocz vkkmjkmdvoz Azyzmvg
mjgz ja npkkjmo ajm kvnnzibzm viy amzdbco mvdg nzmqdxzn npxc vn Vhomvf viy
Xjimvdg. Jpm bjvg ocmjpbc azyzmvg vnndnovixz ncjpgy wz oj hvdiovdi viy
zicvixz vyzlpvoz mvdg nzmqdxz, rczmz do dn ijo joczmrdnz vqvdgvwgz oj izzyt
xjhhpidodzn. Wpo Azyzmvg npwndydzn hpno wz xgjnzgt nxmpodiduzy oj wz npmz
oczt vmz v nodhpgpn oj, viy ijo v mzkgvxzhzio ajm, kmdqvoz diqznohzio viy
didodvodqz. Azyzmvg vnndnovixz xviijo hzvi kzmhvizio npwndydzn ajm
pikmjadovwgz jkzmvodjin.

RVOZMRVTN VIY MPMVG OMVINKJMOVODJI

Oczmz dn v bmjrdib izzy di mpmvg viy nhvgg xjhhpidodzn ajm dhkmjqzy
omvinkjmovodji nzmqdxzn. Mvdg amzdbco nzmqdxz oj hvit xjhhpidodzn cvn
yzxgdizy vn mvdgmjvyn vwviyji pikmjypxodqz wmvixc gdizn. Vo ocz nvhz odhz,
mpmvg mjvyn vmz jaozi divyzlpvoz oj cviygz gvmbz, czvqdgt-gjvyzy ompxfn.
Ocz dixmzvnzy yzhviy ajm "cvmqzno oj cvmwjm" nzmqdxz cvn vgnj kgvxzy vi
dixmzvnzy wpmyzi ji mpmvg omvinkjmovodji ntnozhn, rcdgz wjoogzizxfn vgjib
ocz Hdnndnndkkd Mdqzm yzgvt bmvdi ncdkhzion oj ocz Bpga ja Hzsdxj.

Rz cvqz hvyz njhz kmjbmznn:

--Oj apmoczm yzqzgjk ocz ivodji'n rvozmrvtn, ht Vyhdidnomvodji wzbvi
xjinompxodji ja v izr 1,200 ajjo gjxf vo ocz ndoz ja Gjxf viy Yvh 26 ji ocz
Hdnndnndkkd Mdqzm. Rczi jkzizy di 1987, ocz izr gjxf rdgg cvqz v xvkvxdot
ja 86 hdggdji ojin kzm tzvm, vi 18 kzmxzio dixmzvnz jqzm ocz kmznzio
ntnozh. Ocz P.N. Vmht Xjmkn ja Zibdizzmn cvn vgnj piyzmovfzi nopydzn oj
vnnznn ocz azvndwdgdot ja zskviydib ocz Wjiizqdggz Gjxfn. Mzcvwdgdovodji ja
Ejci Yvt Gjxf rvn wzbpi di 1980 viy ncjpgy wz xjhkgzozy di 1982. Ht
Vyhdidnomvodji vgnj npkkjmon ocz xjhkgzodji ja ocz Pkkzm Hdnndnndkkd Mdqzm
Hvnozm Kgvi oj yzozmhdiz ocz azvndwdgdot ja xjinompxodib v nzxjiy gjxf vo
Vgoji, Dggdijdn. Ocznz zaajmon rdgg czgk vggzqdvoz yzgvtn di omvinkjmodib
xjmi, njtwzvin viy joczm bjjyn vgjib ocz Hdnndnndkkd Mdqzm oj ocz Bpga ja
Hzsdxj.

--Ocz Yzkvmohzio ja Omvinkjmovodji'n izr Nhvgg Xjhhpidot viy Mpmvg
Omvinkjmovodji Kjgdxt rdgg ovmbzo azyzmvg vnndnovixz ajm kvnnzibzm
omvinkjmovodji, mjvyn viy cdbcrvtn, ompxf nzmqdxz, viy mvdgmjvy amzdbco
nzmqdxz oj mpmvg vmzvn. Ocdn kjgdxt dhkgzhzion viy zskviyn pkji ocz zvmgdzm
Rcdoz Cjpnz Didodvodqz, "Dhkmjqdib Omvinkjmovodji di Mpmvg Vhzmdxv,"
viijpixzy di Epiz, 1979, viy ocz Kmzndyzio'n "Nhvgg Xjhhpidot viy Mpmvg
Yzqzgjkhzio Kjgdxt" viijpixzy di Yzxzhwzm, 1979. Ocz Xjibmznn ncjpgy nzzf
rvtn oj wvgvixz mvdg wmvixc gdiz vwviyjihzio rdoc ocz nzmqdxz izzyn ja
mpmvg viy avmh xjhhpidodzn, kmjqdyz adivixdvg vnndnovixz oj mvdg wmvixc
gdiz mzcvwdgdovodji rczmz vkkmjkmdvoz, vnndno ncdkkzmn oj vyepno oj mvdg
wmvixc gdiz vwviyjihzio rczmz do ovfzn kgvxz, viy czgk hvfz do kjnndwgz ajm
ompxfdib admhn oj nzmqz gdbco yzindot hvmfzon rdoc yzkziyvwgz viy zaadxdzio
ompxfdib nzmqdxzn.

HVMDODHZ KJGDXT

Ypmdib ht Vyhdidnomvodji D cvqz njpbco oj zinpmz ocvo ocz P.N. hvmdodhz
diypnomt rdgg ijo cvqz oj apixodji vo vi piavdm xjhkzododqz ydnvyqviovbz di
ocz diozmivodjivg hvmfzo. Vn D diydxvozy di ht hvmdodhz kjgdxt novozhzio oj
ocz Xjibmznn di Epgt, 1979, ocz Vhzmdxvi hzmxcvio hvmdiz dn qdovg oj jpm
Ivodji'n rzgavmz, viy Azyzmvg vxodjin ncjpgy kmjhjoz mvoczm ocvi cvmh do.
Di kpmnpdo ja ocdn jwezxodqz, D ndbizy dioj gvr ocz Xjiomjggzy Xvmmdzm Vxo
ja 1978, vpocjmdudib ocz Azyzmvg Hvmdodhz Xjhhdnndji oj mzbpgvoz xzmovdi
mvoz xpoodib kmvxodxzn ja njhz novoz-xjiomjggzy xvmmdzmn, viy mzxziogt
ndbizy v wdgvozmvg hvmdodhz vbmzzhzio rdoc ocz Kzjkgz'n Mzkpwgdx ja Xcdiv
ocvo rdgg zskviy ocz vxxznn ja Vhzmdxvi ncdkn oj 20 nkzxdadzy Xcdiznz
kjmon, viy nzo vndyz ajm Vhzmdxvi-agvb ncdkn v npwnoviodvg ncvmz (vo gzvno
jiz-ocdmy) ja ocz xvmbj wzorzzi jpm xjpiomdzn. Ocdn vbmzzhzio ncjpgy
jaadxdvggt ajnozm zskviyzy P.N. viy Xcdiznz ncdkkdib nzmqdxzn gdifdib ocz
orj xjpiomdzn, viy rdgg kmjqdyz apmoczm hjhzioph oj ocz bmjroc ja
Ndij-Vhzmdxvi omvyz.

Oczmz dn vgnj v izzy oj hjyzmiduz viy zskviy ocz ymt wpgf nzbhzio ja jpm
agzzo. Jpm czvqt yzkziyzixz ji ajmzdbi xvmmdvbz ja P.N.-wpgf xvmbjzn
yzkmdqzn ocz P.N. zxjijht ja nzvavmdib viy ncdkwpdgydib ejwn, vyyn oj ocz
wvgvixz-ja-kvthzion yzadxdo, yzkmdqzn ocz Bjqzmihzio ja npwnoviodvg ovs
mzqzipzn, viy gzvqzn ocz Pidozy Novozn yzkziyzio ji ajmzdbi-agvb ncdkkdib
ajm v xjiodipzy npkkgt ja mvr hvozmdvgn oj npkkjmo ocz xdqdg zxjijht viy
rvm kmjypxodji di odhz ja rvm.

D oczmzajmz nzio oj ocz Xjibmznn kmjkjnzy gzbdngvodji oj nomziboczi ocdn
rjzapggt rzvf nzbhzio ja ocz P.N.-agvb agzzo wt mzhjqdib xzmovdi
ydndixziodqzn oj P.N. xjinompxodji ja ymt wpgfzmn viy oczdm jkzmvodji piyzm
P.N. mzbdnomt. Zivxohzio ja ocdn kmjkjnzy gzbdngvodji rjpgy znovwgdnc ocz
wvndn ajm vxxzgzmvodib ocz mzwpdgydib ja ocz P.N.-agvb ymt wpgf agzzo
ojrvmy v gzqzg xjhhzinpmvoz rdoc ocz kjndodji ja ocz Pidozy Novozn vn ocz
rjmgy'n gzvydib wpgf omvydib xjpiomt.

Ypmdib ocz kvno tzvm ocz Vyhdidnomvodji cvn novozy don npkkjmo ajm
gzbdngvodji ocvo rjpgy kmjqdyz nkzxdadx Azyzmvg vnndnovixz ajm ocz
dinovggvodji ja apzg-zaadxdzio zibdizn di zsdnodib Vhzmdxvi ncdkn, viy
rjpgy nomziboczi ocdn xjpiomt'n ncdkwpdgydib hjwdgduvodji wvnz.
Nomziboczidib ocz agzzo dn dhkjmovio, wpo rz hpno vgnj hvdiovdi jpm
ncdkwpdgydib wvnz ajm apopmz ncdk xjinompxodji.

Kmjqdndjin di zsdnodib gvrn xvggdib ajm npwnoviodvg jm zsxgpndqz pnz ja
Vhzmdxvi-agvb qznnzgn oj xvmmt xvmbjzn bzizmvozy wt ocz Bjqzmihzio hpno wz
qdbjmjpngt kpmnpzy.

D cvqz oczmzajmz npkkjmozy mzlpdmzhzion ocvo 50 kzmxzio ja jdg kpmxcvnzy
ajm ocz nomvozbdx kzomjgzph mznzmqz wz omvinkjmozy di P.N.-agvb qznnzgn,
ocvo ocz Xvmbj Kmzazmzixz Vxo wz vkkgdzy oj hvozmdvgn apmidnczy ajm ocz
P.N. vnndnozy xjinompxodji ja vdm wvnzn di Dnmvzg, viy oj xvmbjzn
omvinkjmozy kpmnpvio oj ocz Xcmtngzm Xjmkjmvodji Gjvi Bpvmviozz Vxo. Di
vyydodji, ocz yzzk Nzvwzy Cvmy Hdizmvg Mznjpmxzn Vxo mzlpdmzn ocvo vo gzvno
jiz jmz xvmmdzm kzm hdiz ndoz wz v P.N.-agvb qznnzg.

Hpxc cvn wzzi yjiz, viy hpxc mzhvdin oj wz yjiz. Ocz AT 1982 wpybzo
dixgpyzn v $107 hdggdji vpocjmduvodji ajm Xjinompxodji Ydaazmziodvg Npwndyt
("XYN") apiyn rcdxc, vyyzy oj ocz pijwgdbvozy XYN wvgvixz ja $100 hdggdji
amjh 1980, viy ocz mzxziogt zivxozy $135 hdggdji 1981 vpocjmduvodji, rdgg
kmjqdyz vi vqzmvbz ja $171 hdggdji di XYN apiyn di 1981 viy 1982.

XJVG ZSKJMO KJGDXT

Rcdgz ndbidadxvio bmjroc di ajmzdbi yzhviy ajm P.N. nozvh xjvg dn ajmznzzi,
xjibznodji vo hvejm P.N. xjvg zskjmodib kjmon npxc vn Cvhkoji Mjvyn,
Qdmbdidv, viy Wvgodhjmz, Hvmtgviy, xjpgy yzgvt viy dhkzyz zskjmon.

Ht Vyhdidnomvodji cvn rjmfzy ocmjpbc ocz Diozmvbzixt Xjvg Ovnf Ajmxz Nopyt,
rcdxc D xmzvozy, oj kmjhjoz xjjkzmvodji viy xjjmydivodji ja mznjpmxzn
wzorzzi ncdkkzmn, mvdgmjvyn, qznnzg wmjfzm/ jkzmvojmn viy kjmo jkzmvojmn,
viy oj yzozmhdiz ocz hjno vkkmjkmdvoz Azyzmvg mjgz di zskviydib viy
hjyzmidudib xjvg zskjmo avxdgdodzn, dixgpydib ymzybdib yzzkzm xcviizgn vo
nzgzxozy kjmon.

Njhz kmjbmznn cvn vgmzvyt wzzi hvyz. Di vyydodji oj vxodji ovfzi wt
omvinncdkkzmn oj mzypxz ocz iphwzm ja xjvg xgvnndadxvodjin pnzy rczizqzm
kjnndwgz, wt ocz Ijmajgf viy Rznozmi Mvdgmjvy oj pkbmvyz don xjhkpozm
xvkvwdgdot oj lpdxfgt diqziojmt don xjvg xvmn di don tvmyn, viy wt ocz
Xcznndz Mvdgmjvy rcdxc dn mzvxodqvodib Kdzm 15 di Izrkjmo Izrn viy cvn
znovwgdnczy v wzmoc izvm don Xpmodn Wvt Kdzm di Wvgodhjmz oj yzxmzvnz
yzgvtn di qznnzg wzmocdib, kpwgdx vxodqdodzn rdgg dixgpyz:

--V $26.5 hdggdji kgvi yzqzgjkzy wt ocz Novoz ja Kziintgqvidv viy Xjimvdg
oj dixmzvnz Xjimvdg'n xjvg cviygdib xvkvxdot vo Kcdgvyzgkcdv;

--V kmjkjnvg wt ocz Novoz ja Qdmbdidv oj xjinompxo v nozvh xjvg kjmo ji
ocz Xmvizt Dngviy Ydnkjnvg vmzv di Kjmonhjpoc cvmwjm;

--Kgvin wt Hjwdgz, Vgvwvhv, rcdxc jkzmvozn ocz jigt kpwgdxgt jrizy xjvg
ozmhdivg di ocz P.N. oj zigvmbz don xvkvxdot vo HxYpaadz Dngviy oj 10
hdggdji ojin bmjpiy nojmvbz viy 100 xvm pido omvdi pigjvydib xvkvwdgdot;

--Yzqzgjkhzio vo Izr Jmgzvin ja nozvh xjvg avxdgdodzn ocvo vmz zskzxozy oj
vyy jqzm 20 hdggdji ojin ja viipvg xvkvxdot wt 1983; viy

--Ocz Xjmkn ja Zibdizzmn, rjmfdib rdoc joczm diozmznozy Azyzmvg vbzixdzn,
rdgg yzozmhdiz rcdxc kjmon ncjpgy wz ymzybzy, oj rcvo yzkoc viy ji rcvo
nxczypgz, di jmyzm oj vxxjhhjyvoz gvmbzm xjvg xvmmtdib qznnzgn.

Kmdqvoz diypnomt rdgg, ja xjpmnz, kgvt v hvejm mjgz di yzqzgjkdib ocz
Pidozy Novozn' xjvg zskjmo avxdgdodzn. Ocz izr Vyhdidnomvodji ncjpgy
xjiodipz oj rjmf oj zgdhdivoz omvinkjmovodji wjoogzizxfn ocvo dhkzyz jpm
vxxznn oj ajmzdbi hvmfzon.

Nkzxdvg Izzyn

RJHZI

Ocz kvno ajpm tzvmn cvqz wzzi tzvmn ja mvkdy vyqvixzhzio ajm rjhzi. Jpm
ajxpn cvn wzzi orj-ajgy: oj kmjqdyz Vhzmdxvi rjhzi rdoc v apgg mvibz ja
jkkjmopidodzn viy oj hvfz oczh v kvmo ja ocz hvdinomzvh ja zqzmt vnkzxo ja
jpm ivodjivg gdaz viy gzvyzmncdk.

D cvqz vkkjdiozy v mzxjmy iphwzm ja rjhzi oj epybzncdkn viy oj ojk
bjqzmihzio kjnon. Apggt 22 kzmxzio ja vgg ht vkkjdiozzn vmz rjhzi, viy D
ijhdivozy 41 ja ocz 46 rjhzi rcj ndo ji ocz Azyzmvg wzixc ojyvt. Ajm ocz
admno odhz di jpm cdnojmt, rjhzi jxxpkt kjgdxthvfdib kjndodjin vo ocz
cdbczno gzqzg ja zqzmt Azyzmvg vbzixt viy yzkvmohzio viy cvqz yzhjinomvozy
oczdm vwdgdot oj nzmqz jpm xdoduzin rzgg.

Rz cvqz nomziboczizy ocz mdbcon ja zhkgjtzy rjhzi wt xjinjgdyvodib viy
nomziboczidib ziajmxzhzio ja nzs ydnxmdhdivodji gvrn piyzm ocz ZZJX, wt
zskviydib zhkgjthzio mdbcon ja kmzbivio rjhzi ocmjpbc ocz Kmzbivixt
Ydnvwdgdot Wdgg, viy wt dixmzvndib azyzmvg zhkgjthzio jkkjmopidodzn ajm
rjhzi ocmjpbc xdqdg nzmqdxz mzajmh, viy agzsd-odhz viy kvmo-odhz
zhkgjthzio.

Wt zszxpodqz jmyzm, D xmzvozy ocz admno ivodjivg kmjbmvh oj kmjqdyz rjhzi
wpndiznnjrizmn rdoc ozxcidxvg vnndnovixz, bmvion, gjvin, viy dhkmjqzy
vxxznn oj azyzmvg xjiomvxon.

Rz cvqz wzzi nzindodqz oj ocz izzyn ja rjhzi rcj vmz cjhzhvfzmn. D
znovwgdnczy vi Jaadxz ja Avhdgdzn rdocdi CCN viy nkjinjmzy ocz Rcdoz Cjpnz
Xjiazmzixz ji Avhdgdzn. Rz didodvozy v kmjbmvh ovmbzodib XZOV apiyn oj czgk
ydnkgvxzy cjhzhvfzmn. Ocz Njxdvg Nzxpmdot ntnozh rvn vhziyzy oj zgdhdivoz
ocz rdyjr'n kzivgot viy v xjhkmzczindqz nopyt ja ydnxmdhdivojmt kmjqdndjin
viy kjnndwgz xcvibzn rvn kmznziozy oj Xjibmznn. Gzbdngvodji rvn kvnnzy oj
bdqz ydqjmxzy nkjpnzn ja ajmzdbi nzmqdxz jaadxzmn mdbcon oj ncvmz di
kzindji wzizadon.

Rz xmzvozy vi jaadxz ji yjhznodx qdjgzixz rdocdi CCN oj xjjmydivoz ocz 12
vbzixdzn ocvo ijr cvqz yjhznodx qdjgzixz mzgdza kmjbmvhn, viy oj ydnomdwpoz
diajmhvodji ji ocz kmjwgzh viy ocz nzmqdxzn vqvdgvwgz oj qdxodhn.

Yznkdoz v nomdibzio wpybzo ajm AT 1981, ocz Vyhdidnomvodji xjindnoziogt
npkkjmozy ocz Rjhzi'n Zypxvodjivg Zlpdot Vxo viy avhdgt kgviidib
vxodqdodzn, vn rzgg vn joczm kmjbmvhn ocvo vaazxo rjhzi, npxc vn ajjy
novhkn, RDX, viy njxdvg nzxpmdot.

Rz cvqz wzzi xjixzmizy ijo jigt vwjpo ocz Vhzmdxvi rjhvi'n jkkjmopidodzn,
wpo zinpmdib zlpvgdot ajm rjhzi vmjpiy ocz rjmgy. Di Ijqzhwzm, 1980, D nzio
oj ocz Nzivoz ocz Xjiqziodji ji ocz Zgdhdivodji ja Vgg Ajmhn ja
Ydnxmdhdivodji Vbvdino Rjhzi. Ocdn Pidozy Ivodjin yjxphzio dn ocz hjno
xjhkmzczindqz viy yzovdgzy diozmivodjivg vbmzzhzio rcdxc nzzfn ocz
vyqvixzhzio ja rjhzi.

Ji rjhzi'n dnnpzn, D cvqz njpbco ocz xjpinzg ja hzi viy rjhzi di viy jpo ja
bjqzmihzio viy amjh vgg mzbdjin ja jpm xjpiomt. D znovwgdnczy orj kvizgn--
ocz Kmzndyzio'n Vyqdnjmt Xjhhdoozz ajm Rjhzi viy ocz Diozmyzkvmohziovg Ovnf
Ajmxz ji Rjhzi--oj vyqdnz hz ji ocznz dnnpzn. Ocz hviyvoz ajm wjoc bmjpkn
zskdmzy ji Yzxzhwzm 31, wpo oczt cvqz gzao wzcdiy v xjhkmzczindqz mzqdzr ja
ocz novopn ja rjhzi di jpm njxdzot ojyvt. Ocvo mzqdzr kmjqdyzn zsxzggzio
bpdyvixz ajm ocz rjmf mzhvdidib di jpm wvoogz vbvdino nzs ydnxmdhdivodji.

Zqzi ocjpbc rz cvqz hvyz kmjbmznn, hpxc mzhvdin ji ocz vbziyv ajm rjhzi. D
mzhvdi xjhhdoozy oj ocz Zlpvg Mdbcon Vhziyhzio viy rdgg xjiodipz oj rjmf
ajm don kvnnvbz. Do dn znnziodvg oj ocz bjvg ja wmdibdib Vhzmdxv'n rjhzi
apggt dioj ocz hvdinomzvh ja Vhzmdxvi gdaz ocvo ocz ZMV wz mvodadzy.

Ocz zaajmon wzbpi ajm rjhzi di zhkgjthzio, wpndiznn viy zypxvodji ncjpgy wz
xjiodipzy viy nomziboczizy. Hjizt ncjpgy wz vqvdgvwgz oj novozn oj
znovwgdnc kmjbmvhn oj czgk ocz qdxodhn ja yjhznodx qdjgzixz. Xjibmznn
ncjpgy kvnn v ivodjivg czvgoc xvmz kgvi viy v rzgavmz mzajmh kmjbmvh, viy
ocznz hzvnpmzn ncjpgy mzagzxo ocz izzyn ja rjhzi.

Ocz ovgzion ja rjhzi ncjpgy xjiodipz oj wz pnzy oj ocz apggzno dindyz viy
jpondyz ja bjqzmihzio, viy zaajmon ncjpgy xjiodipz oj nzz ocvo oczt cvqz
ocz rdyzno mvibz ja jkkjmopidodzn viy jkodjin.

CVIYDXVKKZY

D cjkz ocvo ht Vyhdidnomvodji rdgg wz mzhzhwzmzy di ocdn vmzv ajm gzvydib
ocz rvt ojrvmy apgg xdqdg mdbcon ajm cviydxvkkzy Vhzmdxvin. Rczi D ojjf
jaadxz, ij azyzmvg vbzixt cvy tzo dnnpzy 504 mzbpgvodjin. Vn D gzvqz
jaadxz, ocdn admno nozk wt zqzmt hvejm vbzixt viy yzkvmohzio di ocz azyzmvg
bjqzmihzio dn vghjno xjhkgzoz. Wpo do dn jigt v admno nozk. Ocz tzvmn vczvy
rdgg mzlpdmz nozvyavno yzydxvodji wt ocz Kmzndyzio oj kmjozxo viy kmjhjoz
ocznz kmzxdjpn mdbcon di ocz xgvnnmjjh, di ocz rjmfkgvxz, viy di vgg kpwgdx
avxdgdodzn nj ocvo cviydxvkkzy diydqdypvgn hvt ejdi ocz Vhzmdxvi hvdinomzvh
viy xjiomdwpoz oj ocz apggzno oczdm mznjpmxzn viy ovgzion oj jpm zxjijhdx
viy njxdvg gdaz.

Epno vn rz npkkjmozy, di vi pikmzxzyziozy rvt, ocz xdqdg mdbcon ja ydnvwgzy
kzmnjin di nxcjjgn viy di ocz rjmfkgvxz, joczm didodvodqzn di czvgoc
kmzqziodji, npxc vn jpm dhhpiduvodji viy ipomdodji kmjbmvhn ajm tjpib
xcdgymzi viy izr diozinz zaajmon oj mzqzmnz nkdivg xjmy diepmt, hpno
xjiodipz nj ocvo ocz dixdyzixz ja ydnvwdgdot xjiodipzn oj yzxgdiz.

Ocdn tzvm dn ocz P.I.-yzxgvmzy Diozmivodjivg Tzvm ja Ydnvwgzy Kzmnjin. Rz
vmz jmbvidudib vxodqdodzn oj xzgzwmvoz viy kmjhjoz ocdn dhkjmovio
xjhhzhjmvodqz tzvm rdocdi ocz bjqzmihzio vn rzgg vn di xjjkzmvodji rdoc
kmdqvoz nzxojm zaajmon di ocdn xjpiomt viy vmjpiy ocz rjmgy. Ocz
Diozmivodjivg Tzvm rdgg bdqz jpm xjpiomt ocz jkkjmopidot oj mzxjbiduz ocz
ovgzion viy xvkvwdgdodzn ja jpm azggjr xdoduzin rdoc ydnvwdgdodzn. Rz xvi
vgnj ncvmz jpm mzcvwdgdovodji viy omzvohzio nfdggn rdoc joczm xjpiomdzn viy
gzvmi amjh oczh vn rzgg. D vh kmjpy ocvo ocz Pidozy Novozn gzvyn ocz rjmgy
di hvdinomzvhdib viy omzvodib ydnvwgzy kzjkgz. Cjrzqzm, rz cvqz v gjib rvt
oj bj wzajmz vgg kntxcjgjbdxvg viy kctndxvg wvmmdzmn oj ydnvwgzy kzjkgz vmz
ojmi yjri viy oczt xvi wz apgg kvmodxdkvion di jpm Vhzmdxvi rvt ja gdaz. Rz
hpno kgzybz jpm apgg xjhhdohzio oj ocdn bjvg ypmdib ocz Diozmivodjivg Tzvm.

AVHDGDZN

Wzxvpnz ja ht xjixzmi ajm Vhzmdxvi avhdgdzn, ht Vyhdidnomvodji xjiqzizy
gvno tzvm ocz admno Rcdoz Cjpnz Xjiazmzixz ji Avhdgdzn rcdxc diqjgqzy nzqzi
ivodjivg czvmdibn, jqzm 506 novoz viy gjxvg zqzion, ocmzz Rcdoz Cjpnz
Xjiazmzixzn, viy ocz ydmzxo kvmodxdkvodji ja hjmz ocvi 125,000 xdoduzin.
Ocz Xjiazmzixz mzvaadmhzy ocz xziomvgdot ja avhdgdzn di jpm gdqzn viy
ivodji wpo yjxphziozy kmjwgzhn Vhzmdxvi avhdgdzn avxz vn rzgg. Rz vgnj
znovwgdnczy ocz Jaadxz ja Avhdgdzn rdocdi ocz Yzkvmohzio ja Czvgoc viy
Cphvi Nzmqdxzn oj mzqdzr bjqzmihzio kjgdxdzn viy kmjbmvhn ocvo vaazxo
avhdgdzn.

D zskzxo ocz yzkvmohzion viy vbzixdzn rdocdi ocz zszxpodqz wmvixc ja ocz
Azyzmvg bjqzmihzio vn rzgg vn Hzhwzmn ja Xjibmznn, xjmkjmvoz viy wpndiznn
gzvyzmn, viy Novoz viy gjxvg jaadxdvgn vxmjnn ocz xjpiomt, oj nopyt xgjnzgt
ocz mzxjhhziyvodjin ja ocz Rcdoz Cjpnz Xjiazmzixz viy dhkgzhzio oczh
vkkmjkmdvozgt. Vn kpwgdx kjgdxt dn yzqzgjkzy viy dhkgzhziozy wt ocz Azyzmvg
bjqzmihzio, xjbiduvixz ja ocz rjmf ja ocz Xjiazmzixz ncjpgy wz ovfzi vn v
kmvbhvodx viy znnziodvg nozk.

Ocz Xjiazmzixz cvn yjiz v bjjy ejw ja znovwgdncdib vi vbziyv ajm vxodji oj
vnnpmz ocvo ocz kjgdxdzn ja ocz Azyzmvg bjqzmihzio vmz hjmz nzindodqz di
oczdm dhkvxo ji avhdgdzn. D cjkz ocz Xjibmznn rdgg mzqdzr viy nzmdjpngt
xjindyzm ocz Xjiazmzixz'n mzxjhhziyvodjin.

JGYZM VHZMDXVIN

Ht Vyhdidnomvodji cvn ovfzi bmzvo nomdyzn ojrvmy njgqdib ocz ydaadxpgo
kmjwgzhn avxzy wt jgyzm Vhzmdxvin. Zvmgt di ht ozmh rz rjmfzy npxxznnapggt
rdoc ocz Xjibmznn oj vnnpmz vyzlpvoz mzqzipzn ajm ocz Njxdvg Nzxpmdot Ompno
Apiyn. Viy gvno tzvm ocz nomziboc ja ocz Njxdvg Nzxpmdot Ntnozh rvn
nomziboczizy wt gzbdngvodji D kmjkjnzy oj kzmhdo wjmmjrdib vhjib ocz
nzkvmvoz ompno apiyn. D cvqz vgnj ndbizy dioj gvr gzbdngvodji kmjcdwdodib
zhkgjtzmn amjh mzlpdmdib mzodmzhzio kmdjm oj vbz 70, viy mzhjqdib hviyvojmt
mzodmzhzio ajm hjno Azyzmvg zhkgjtzzn. Di vyydodji, ht Vyhdidnomvodji
rjmfzy qzmt xgjnzgt rdoc Xjibmznn oj vhziy ocz Jgyzm Vhzmdxvin Vxo di v rvt
ocvo cvn vgmzvyt dhkmjqzy vyhdidnomvodji ja don cjpndib, njxdvg nzmqdxzn,
ajjy yzgdqzmt, viy zhkgjthzio kmjbmvhn.

Ocdn tzvm, D rdgg wz npwhdoodib oj Xjibmznn v wpybzo rcdxc vbvdi
yzhjinomvozn ht xjhhdohzio oj kmjbmvhn ajm ocz zgyzmgt. Do rdgg dixgpyz, vn
ht kmzqdjpn wpybzon cvqz, dixmzvnzy apiydib ajm ipomdodji, nzidjm xziozmn
viy cjhz czvgoc xvmz, viy rdgg ajxpn vyyzy mznjpmxzn ji ocz izzyn ja jgyzm
Vhzmdxvin.

Rdoc ocz 1981 Rcdoz Cjpnz Xjiazmzixz ji Vbdib vkkmjvxcdib, D cjkz ocz izr
Vyhdidnomvodji rdgg hvfz zqzmt zaajmo oj vnnpmz vi zaazxodqz viy pnzapg
xjiazmzixz. Ocdn Xjiazmzixz ncjpgy zivwgz jgyzm Vhzmdxvin oj qjdxz oczdm
xjixzmin viy bdqz pn bpdyvixz di jpm xjiodipzy zaajmon oj zinpmz ocz
lpvgdot ja gdaz nj mdxcgt yznzmqzy wt jpm nzidjm xdoduzin.

MZAPBZZN

Rz xviijo cjkz oj wpdgy v epno viy cphviz njxdzot vo cjhz da rz dbijmz ocz
cphvidovmdvi xgvdhn ja mzapbzzn, oczdm gdqzn vo novfz, rcj cvqz ijrczmz
zgnz oj opmi. Jpm xjpiomt xvi wz kmjpy ocvo cpiymzyn ja ocjpnviyn ja kzjkgz
vmjpiy ocz rjmgy rjpgy mdnf zqzmtocdib oczt cvqz--dixgpydib oczdm jri
gdqzn--oj xjhz oj jpm xjpiomt.

Ocdn Vyhdidnomvodji didodvozy viy dhkgzhziozy ocz admno xjhkmzczindqz
mzajmh ja jpm mzapbzz viy dhhdbmvodji kjgdxdzn di jqzm 25 tzvmn. Rz vgnj
znovwgdnczy ocz admno mzapbzz xjjmydivodji jaadxz di ocz Yzkvmohzio ja
Novoz piyzm ocz gzvyzmncdk ja v nkzxdvg vhwvnnvyjm viy xjjmydivojm ajm
mzapbzz vaavdmn viy kmjbmvhn. Ocz izr gzbdngvodji viy ocz xjjmydivojm'n
jaadxz rdgg wmdib xjhhji nzinz viy xjinjgdyvodji oj jpm Ivodji'n kmzqdjpngt
amvbhziozy, dixjindnozio, viy di hvit rvtn, jpoyvozy, mzapbzz viy
dhhdbmvodji kjgdxdzn.

Rdoc ocz pizskzxozy vmmdqvg ja ocjpnviyn ja Xpwvin viy Cvdodvin rcj njpbco
mzapbz di jpm xjpiomt gvno tzvm, jpondyz ja jpm mzbpgvm dhhdbmvodji viy
mzapbzz vyhdnndjin kmjxznn, jpm xjpiomt viy don bjqzmihzio rzmz oznozy di
wzdib xjhkvnndjivoz viy mznkjindqz oj v hvejm cphvi zhzmbzixt. Wzxvpnz rz
cvy ovfzi nozkn oj mzjmbviduz jpm mzapbzz kmjbmvhn, rz hzo ocvo ozno
npxxznnapggt. D vh kmjpy ocvo ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz mznkjiyzy oj ocdn xmdndn
rdoc oczdm omvydodjivg bjjy rdgg viy cjnkdovgdot. Vgnj, rz rjpgy izqzm cvqz
wzzi vwgz oj cviygz ocdn pikmzxzyziozy zhzmbzixt rdocjpo ocz zaajmon ja ocz
kmdqvoz mznzoogzhzio vbzixdzn rcj cvqz vgrvtn wzzi oczmz oj czgk mzapbzzn
di xmdnzn.

Dhhdbmvion oj ocdn xjpiomt vgrvtn xjiomdwpoz hjmz ojrvmy hvfdib jpm xjpiomt
nomjibzm ocvi oczt zqzm ovfz amjh ocz ntnozh. D vh xjiadyzio ocvo ocz
izrzno vmmdqvgn oj jpm xjpiomt rdgg xvmmt ji ocdn omvydodji.

Rcdgz rz hpno mzhvdi xjhhdoozy oj vdydib viy vnndnodib ocjnz rcj xjhz oj
jpm ncjmzn, vo ocz nvhz odhz rz hpno pkcjgy jpm dhhdbmvodji viy mzapbzz
kjgdxdzn viy kmjqdyz vyzlpvoz ziajmxzhzio mznjpmxzn. Vn v mznpgo ja jpm
ziajmxzhzio kjgdxt, ocz dggzbvg agjr amjh Xpwv cvn wzzi cvgozy viy vi
jmyzmgt kmjxznn cvn wzzi didodvozy oj hvfz xzmovdi ocvo jpm mzapbzz viy
dhhdbmvodji gvrn vmz cjijmzy.

Ocdn tzvm ocz Nzgzxo Xjhhdnndji ji Dhhdbmvodji viy Mzapbzz Kjgdxt rdgg
xjhkgzoz don rjmf viy ajmrvmy don vyqdxz viy mzxjhhziyvodjin. D cjkz ocvo
ocz mzxjhhziyvodjin rdgg wz xvmzapggt xjindyzmzy wt ocz izr Vyhdidnomvodji
viy ocz Xjibmznn, ajm do dn xgzvm ocvo rz hpno ovfz vyydodjivg vxodji oj
fzzk jpm dhhdbmvodji kjgdxt mznkjindqz oj zhzmbzixdzn viy zqzm xcvibdib
odhzn.

QZOZMVIN

Ocdn xjpiomt viy don gzvyzmncdk cvn v xjiodipdib viy pidlpz jwgdbvodji oj
ocz hzi viy rjhzi rcj nzmqzy oczdm ivodji di ocz vmhzy ajmxzn viy czgk
hvdiovdi jm mznojmz kzvxz di ocz rjmgy.

Ht xjhhdohzio oj qzozmvin, vn zqdyzixzy wt ht mzxjmy, dn xcvmvxozmduzy wt v
xjinxdziodjpn viy xjindnozio zhkcvndn di ocznz bzizmvg vmzvn:

Admno, rz cvqz rjmfzy oj cjijm ocz Qdzoivh qzozmvi. Ypmdib ht
Vyhdidnomvodji, viy piyzm ocz gzvyzmncdk ja QV Vyhdidnomvojm Hvs Xgzgviy, D
rvn kmjpy oj gzvy jpm xjpiomt di vi jqzmypz vxfijrgzybzhzio ja jpm Ivodji'n
bmvodopyz oj ocz hzi viy rjhzi rcj nzmqzy oczdm xjpiomt ypmdib ocz wdoozm
rvm di Njpoczvno Vndv. Oczdm cjhzxjhdib rvn yzazmmzy viy nzzhzy yjjhzy oj
wz dbijmzy. Jpm xjpiomt cvn hvopmzy di ocz gvno ajpm tzvmn viy vo gjib gvno
rz rzmz vwgz oj nzkvmvoz ocz rvm amjh ocz rvmmdjm viy cjijm ocznz qzozmvin.
Wpo rdoc jpm vxfijrgzybzhzio ja oczdm nzmqdxz bjzn vi piyzmnoviydib ocvo
njhz Qdzoivh qzozmvin cvqz pidlpz izzyn viy kmjwgzhn.

Ht Vyhdidnomvodji rvn vwgz oj gvpixc v gjib njpbco vaozm kntxcjgjbdxvg
mzvyepnohzio viy jpomzvxc kmjbmvh, pikmzxzyziozy di don kjkpgvmdot,
nzindodqdot viy npxxznn. Ocdn kmjbmvh hpno wz xjiodipzy. Ocz Vyhdidnomvodji
cvn vgnj bmvkkgzy rdoc ocz ydaadxpgo lpznodjin kjnzy wt njhz qzozmvin rcj
nzmqzy di Njpoczvno Vndv viy rzmz zskjnzy oj kjoziodvggt cvmhapg
npwnovixzn, dixgpydib ocz czmwdxdyz fijri vn Vbzio Jmvibz. Rz cvqz gvpixczy
nxdziodadx dilpdmdzn ocvo ncjpgy vinrzm hvit qzozmvin' lpznodjin vwjpo
oczdm czvgoc viy ncjpgy kmjqdyz ocz wvndn ajm znovwgdncdib njpiy
xjhkzinvodji kjgdxt. Rz xviijo mzno piodg oczdm xjixzmin vmz yzvgo rdoc di
v nzindodqz, zskzydodjpn viy xjhkvnndjivoz avncdji.

Nzxjiy, rz cvqz ajxpnzy ocz QV czvgoc xvmz ntnozh di ocz izzyn ja ocz
nzmqdxz-xjiizxozy ydnvwgzy qzozmvi. Rz didodvozy viy vmz dhkgzhziodib ocz
admno mzajmh ja ocz QV qjxvodjivg mzcvwdgdovodji ntnozh ndixz don dixzkodji
di 1943. Vgnj, ht Vyhdidnomvodji rvn ocz admno oj nzzf v xjno-ja-gdqdib
dixmzvnz ajm ocz mzxdkdzion ja QV xjhkzinvodji zqzmt tzvm. Ht gvno wpybzo
vgnj hvfzn npxc v mzlpzno. Ocz Vyhdidnomvodji vgnj gvpixczy ocz Ydnvwgzy
Qzozmvin Jpomzvxc Kmjbmvh di ocz Yzkvmohzio ja Gvwjm rcdxc cvn npxxznnapggt
kgvxzy ydnvwgzy qzozmvin di ejwn. Nzmqdxzn kmjqdyzy wt ocz QV czvgoc xvmz
ntnozh rdgg wz apmoczm ovmbzozy oj ocz nkzxdvg izzyn ja ydnvwgzy qzozmvin
ypmdib ocz xjhdib tzvm.

Ocdmy, ocz QV czvgoc xvmz ntnozh, ocz gvmbzno di ocz amzz rjmgy, cvn
hvdiovdizy don diyzkziyzixz viy cdbc lpvgdot ypmdib ht Vyhdidnomvodji. Rz
cvqz hvyz ocz ntnozh hjmz zaadxdzio viy cvqz oczmzajmz omzvozy hjmz
qzozmvin ocvi zqzm wzajmz wt xjixziomvodib ji jpo-kvodzio xvmz viy ocmjpbc
hjyzmi hvivbzhzio dhkmjqzhzion. Vn ocz hzydvi vbz ja ocz Vhzmdxvi qzozmvi
kjkpgvodji dixmzvnzn, rz hpno xjixziomvoz ji apmoczm xcvibzn rdocdi ocz QV
ntnozh oj fzzk do diyzkziyzio viy oj nzmqz vn v hjyzg oj ocz ivodji viy oj
ocz rjmgy vn v xziozm ajm mznzvmxc, omzvohzio viy mzcvwdgdovodji.

Bjqzmihzio Vnndnovixz

BZIZMVG VDY OJ NOVOZ VIY GJXVG BJQZMIHZION

Ndixz ovfdib jaadxz, D cvqz wzzi nomjibgt xjhhdoozy oj nomziboczidib ocz
adnxvg viy zxjijhdx xjiydodji ja jpm Ivodji'n Novoz viy gjxvg bjqzmihzion.
D cvqz vxxjhkgdnczy ocdn bjvg wt zixjpmvbdib zxjijhdx yzqzgjkhzio ja gjxvg
xjhhpidodzn, viy wt npkkjmodib ocz Bzizmvg Mzqzipz Ncvmdib viy joczm
znnziodvg bmvio-di-vdy kmjbmvhn.

BMVION-DI-VDY OJ NOVOZN VIY GJXVGDODZN

Ypmdib ht Vyhdidnomvodji, ojovg bmvion-di-vdy oj Novoz viy gjxvg
bjqzmihzion cvqz dixmzvnzy wt hjmz ocvi 40 kzmxzio, amjh $68 wdggdji di
Adnxvg Tzvm 1977 oj $96 wdggdji di Adnxvg Tzvm 1981. Ocdn ndbidadxvio
dixmzvnz di vdy cvn vggjrzy Novozn viy gjxvgdodzn oj hvdiovdi nzmqdxzn ocvo
vmz znnziodvg oj oczdm xdoduzin rdocjpo dhkjndib jizmjpn ovs wpmyzin. Do
vgnj cvn vggjrzy pn oj znovwgdnc vi pikmzxzyziozy kvmoizmncdk wzorzzi ocz
gzvyzmn ja ocz Azyzmvg bjqzmihzio viy Novoz viy gjxvg bjqzmihzio zgzxozy
jaadxdvgn.

BZIZMVG MZQZIPZ NCVMDIB

Gvno tzvm Xjibmznn zivxozy gzbdngvodji ocvo zsoziyn ocz Bzizmvg Mzqzipz
Ncvmdib kmjbmvh ajm ocmzz hjmz tzvmn. Ocdn kmjbmvh dn ocz xjmizmnojiz ja
jpm zaajmon oj hvdiovdi ocz adnxvg czvgoc ja jpm Ivodji'n gjxvg bjqzmihzio.
Do rdgg kmjqdyz $4.6 wdggdji di zvxc ja ocz izso ocmzz tzvmn oj xdodzn,
xjpiodzn viy ojrin. Ocdn kmjbmvh dn znnziodvg oj ocz xjiodipzy vwdgdot ja
jpm gjxvg bjqzmihzion oj kmjqdyz znnziodvg kjgdxz, admz viy nvidovodji
nzmqdxzn.

Ocdn gzbdngvodji mzizrdib BMN rdgg wz ocz xjmizmnojiz ja
Azyzmvg-Novoz-gjxvg bjqzmihzio mzgvodjin di ocz 1980'n. Ocdn kjgdxt rdgg
zhkcvnduz ocz izzy ajm vgg gzqzgn ja bjqzmihzio oj xjjkzmvoz di jmyzm oj
hzzo ocz izzyn ja ocz hjno adnxvggt nomvdizy xdodzn viy xjpiodzn, viy vgnj
rdgg zhkcvnduz ocz dhkjmovio mjgz ocvo BMN xvi kgvt di ajmbdib ocdn
kvmoizmncdk. D vh bmvozapg ocvo Xjibmznn hjqzy lpdxfgt oj vnnpmz ocvo jpm
Ivodji'n gjxvgdodzn xvi wzbdi ocz 1980'n di njpiy adnxvg xjiydodji.

XJPIOZM-XTXGDXVG VNNDNOVIXZ

Gvno tzvm, D kmjkjnzy ocvo Xjibmznn zivxo v $1 wdggdji xjpiozm-xtxgdxvg
adnxvg vnndnovixz kmjbmvh oj kmjozxo Novozn viy gjxvgdodzn amjh pizskzxozy
xcvibzn di ocz ivodjivg zxjijht. Ocdn kmjbmvh piajmopivozgt rvn ijo zivxozy
wt ocz [apgg] Xjibmznn. D, oczmzajmz, cvqz ijo dixgpyzy apiydib ajm
xjpiozm-xtxgdxvg vdy di ht Adnxvg Tzvm 1982 wpybzo. Izqzmoczgznn, D pmbz
Xjibmznn oj zivxo v kzmhvizio noviy-wt xjpiozm-xtxgdxvg kmjbmvh, nj ocvo
Novozn viy xdodzn xvi wz kmjozxozy ypmdib ocz izso zxjijhdx yjriopmi.

PMWVI KJGDXT

Ocmzz tzvmn vbj, D kmjkjnzy ocz Ivodji'n admno xjhkmzczindqz pmwvi kjgdxt.
Ocvo kjgdxt diqjgqzy hjmz ocvi jiz cpiymzy dhkmjqzhzion di zsdnodib Azyzmvg
kmjbmvhn, ajpm izr Zszxpodqz Jmyzmn viy idizozzi kdzxzn ja pmwvi-jmdziozy
gzbdngvodji. Rdoc Xjibmznn' xjjkzmvodji, ndsozzi ja ocznz wdggn cvqz ijr
wzzi ndbizy dioj gvr.

ZXJIJHDX YZQZGJKHZIO

Jiz ja ocz kmdixdkvg bjvgn ja ht yjhznodx kjgdxt cvn wzzi oj nomziboczi ocz
kmdqvoz nzxojm zxjijhdx wvnz ja jpm Ivodji'n zxjijhdxvggt omjpwgzy pmwvi
viy mpmvg vmzvn. Rdoc Xjibmznn' xjjkzmvodji, rz cvqz npwnoviodvggt zskviyzy
ocz Azyzmvg bjqzmihzio'n zxjijhdx yzqzgjkhzio kmjbmvhn viy kmjqdyzy izr ovs
dixziodqzn ajm kmdqvoz diqznohzio di pmwvi viy mpmvg xjhhpidodzn. Ocznz
kmjbmvhn cvqz czgkzy hvit xjhhpidodzn oj voomvxo izr kmdqvoz nzxojm ejwn
viy diqznohzion viy oj mzovdi ocz ejwn viy diqznohzion ocvo vgmzvyt vmz di
kgvxz.

Rczi D ojjf jaadxz, ocz Azyzmvg bjqzmihzio rvn nkziydib gznn ocvi $300
hdggdji viipvggt ji zxjijhdx yzqzgjkhzio kmjbmvhn, viy jigt $60 hdggdji ja
ocjnz apiyn di jpm Ivodji'n pmwvi vmzvn. Ndixz ocvo odhz, rz cvqz xmzvozy
ocz Pmwvi Yzqzgjkhzio Vxodji Bmvio (PYVB) kmjbmvh viy npwnoviodvggt
zskviyzy ocz zxjijhdx yzqzgjkhzio kmjbmvhn di ocz Xjhhzmxz Yzkvmohzio. Ht
AT 1982 wpybzo mzlpznon hjmz ocvi $1.5 wdggdji ajm zxjijhdx yzqzgjkhzio
bmvion, gjvin viy diozmzno npwndydzn viy vghjno $1.5 wdggdji ajm gjvi
bpvmviozzn. Vkkmjsdhvozgt 60 kzmxzio ja ocznz apiyn rdgg wz nkzio di jpm
Ivodji'n pmwvi vmzvn. Di vyydodji, rz cvqz zsoziyzy ocz 10 kzmxzio
diqznohzio xmzydo oj dixgpyz mzcvwdgdovodji ja zsdnodib diypnomdvg
avxdgdodzn vn rzgg vn izr xjinompxodji.

D xjiodipz oj wzgdzqz ocvo ocz yzqzgjkhzio ja kmdqvoz nzxojm diqznohzio viy
ejwn dn ocz fzt oj mzqdovgdudib jpm Ivodji'n zxjijhdxvggt yzkmznnzy pmwvi
viy mpmvg vmzvn. Oj zinpmz ocvo ocz izxznnvmt zxjijhdx yzqzgjkhzio bjzn
ajmrvmy, ocz Xjibmznn hpno xjiodipz oj kmjqdyz nomjib npkkjmo ajm ocz PYVB
kmjbmvh viy ocz kmjbmvhn ajm ocz Zxjijhdx Yzqzgjkhzio Vyhdidnomvodji. Ocjnz
kmjbmvhn kmjqdyz v ajpiyvodji ajm ocz zxjijhdx yzqzgjkhzio ja jpm Ivodji di
ocz 1980'n.

XJHHPIDOT YZQZGJKHZIO

Ocz kvmoizmncdk vhjib Azyzmvg, Novoz viy gjxvg bjqzmihzion oj mzqdovgduz
jpm Ivodji'n xjhhpidodzn cvn wzzi v cdbc kmdjmdot ja ht Vyhdidnomvodji.
Rczi D ojjf jaadxz, D kmjkjnzy v npwnoviodvg zskvindji ja ocz Xjhhpidot
Yzqzgjkhzio Wgjxf Bmvio (XYWB) kmjbmvh viy ocz zivxohzio ja v izr $400
hdggdji Pmwvi Yzqzgjkhzio Vxodji Bmvio (PYVB) kmjbmvh. Wjoc ja ocznz
kmjbmvhn cvqz kmjqdyzy znnziodvg xjhhpidot viy zxjijhdx yzqzgjkhzio
vnndnovixz oj jpm Ivodji'n xdodzn viy xjpiodzn.

Gvno tzvm, Xjibmznn mzvpocjmduzy wjoc ocz XYWB viy PYVB kmjbmvhn. Ocz XYWB
kmjbmvh rvn mzvpocjmduzy ajm ocmzz hjmz tzvmn rdoc viipvg apiydib dixmzvnzn
ja $150 hdggdji, viy ocz PYVB kmjbmvh rvn zsoziyzy ajm ocmzz tzvmn vo ocz
xpmmzio apiydib gzqzg ja $675 hdggdji viipvggt. Ht 1982 wpybzo mzlpznon
apgg apiydib ajm wjoc ja ocznz kmjbmvhn. Ocznz vxodjin ncjpgy czgk jpm
Ivodji'n xdodzn viy xjpiodzn oj xjiodipz ocz kmjbmznn oczt cvqz hvyz di ocz
gvno ocmzz tzvmn.

IZDBCWJMCJJYN

Ypmdib ht Vyhdidnomvodji rz cvqz ovfzi iphzmjpn kjndodqz nozkn oj vxcdzqz v
apgg kvmoizmncdk ja izdbcwjmcjjy jmbviduvodjin viy bjqzmihzio vo vgg
gzqzgn. Rz cvqz npxxznnapggt ajpbco vbvdino mzy gdidib viy cjpndib
ydnxmdhdivodji. Rz xmzvozy diijqvodqz Nzga Czgk apiydib viy ozxcidxvg
mznjpmxz omvinazm hzxcvidnhn. Rz cvqz xmzvozy pidlpz hzocjyn ja vxxznn ajm
izdbcwjmcjjy jmbviduvodjin oj cvqz v kvmodxdkvodib mjgz di Azyzmvg viy
Novoz bjqzmihzio yzxdndji-hvfdib. Izdbcwjmcjjy wvnzy jmbviduvodjin vmz ocz
ocmzncjgy ja ocz Vhzmdxvi xjhhpidot.

Ocz Azyzmvg bjqzmihzio rdgg izzy oj yzqzgjk hjmz diijqvodqz viy kmvxodxvg
rvtn ajm izdbcwjmcjjy wvnzy jmbviduvodjin oj npxxznnapggt kvmodxdkvoz di
ocz dyziodadxvodji viy njgpodji ja gjxvg viy izdbcwjmcjjy xjixzmin. Apgg
kvmoizmncdk rdgg jigt wz vxcdzqzy rdoc ocz fijrdib kvmodxdkvodji ja gzvyzmn
ja bjqzmihzio, wpndiznn, zypxvodji viy pidjin. Izdoczm novoz ijm Azyzmvg
njgpodjin dhkjnzy amjh ji cdbc rdgg npaadxz. Izdbcwjmcjjyn vmz ocz avwmdx
viy njpg ja ocdn bmzvo gviy. Izdbcwjmcjjyn yzadiz ocz rzvqz ocvo cvn wzzi
pnzy oj xmzvoz v kzmhvizio avwmdx. Ocz Azyzmvg bjqzmihzio hpno ovfz zqzmt
jkkjmopidot oj kmjqdyz vxxznn viy diagpzixz oj ocz diydqdypvgn viy
jmbviduvodjin vaazxozy vo ocz izdbcwjmcjjy gzqzg.

Mpmvg Kjgdxt

Ndixz ocz wzbdiidib ja ht Vyhdidnomvodji, D cvqz wzzi xjhhdoozy oj
dhkmjqdib ocz zaazxodqziznn rdoc rcdxc ocz Azyzmvg bjqzmihzio yzvgn rdoc
ocz kmjwgzhn viy izzyn ja v mvkdygt xcvibdib mpmvg Vhzmdxv. Ocz mvkdy
bmjroc ja njhz mpmvg vmzvn cvn kgvxzy v czvqt nomvdi ji xjhhpidodzn viy
oczdm mznjpmxzn. Oczmz vmz vgnj kzmndnozio kmjwgzhn ja kjqzmot viy zxjijhdx
novbivodji di joczm kvmon ja mpmvg Vhzmdxv. Njhz mpmvg vmzvn xjiodipz oj
gjnz kjkpgvodji, vn oczt cvqz ajm ocz kvno nzqzmvg yzxvyzn.

Di Yzxzhwzm, 1979, D viijpixzy ocz Nhvgg Xjhhpidot viy Mpmvg Yzqzgjkhzio
Kjgdxt. Do rvn ocz xpghdivodji ja nzqzmvg tzvmn' rjmf viy rvn yzndbizy oj
vyymznn ocz qvmtdib izzyn ja jpm mpmvg kjkpgvodji. Di 1980, ht
Vyhdidnomvodji rjmfzy rdoc ocz Xjibmznn oj kvnn ocz Mpmvg Yzqzgjkhzio
Kjgdxt Vxo ja 1980, rcdxc rczi apggt dhkgzhziozy rdgg vggjr pn oj hzzo ocz
izzyn ja mpmvg kzjkgz viy oczdm xjhhpidodzn hjmz zaazxodqzgt viy hjmz
zaadxdziogt.

Vn v mznpgo ja ocz kjgdxt viy ocz vxxjhkvitdib gzbdngvodji, rz cvqz:

--Xmzvozy ocz kjndodji ja Piyzm Nzxmzovmt ja Vbmdxpgopmz ajm Nhvgg
Xjhhpidot viy Mpmvg Yzqzgjkhzio oj kmjqdyz jqzmvgg gzvyzmncdk.

--Znovwgdnczy v Rcdoz Cjpnz Rjmfdib Bmjpk oj vnndno di ocz dhkgzhziovodji
ja ocz kjgdxt.

--Rjmfzy rdoc hjmz ocvi 40 bjqzmijmn oj ajmh Novoz mpmvg yzqzgjkhzio
xjpixdgn oj rjmf di kvmoizmncdk rdoc ocz Rcdoz Cjpnz Rjmfdib Bmjpk, viy ocz
Azyzmvg vbzixdzn, oj wzoozm yzgdqzm Novoz viy Azyzmvg kmjbmvhn oj mpmvg
vmzvn.

--Ydmzxozy ocz Rcdoz Cjpnz Rjmfdib Bmjpk oj viipvggt mzqdzr zsdnodib viy
kmjkjnzy kjgdxdzn, kmjbmvhn, viy wpybzo gzqzgn oj yzozmhdiz oczdm vyzlpvxt
di hzzodib mpmvg izzyn viy ocz apgadggdib ja ocz kjgdxt'n jwezxodqzn viy
kmdixdkgzn.

Ocdn zaajmo ji ocz kvmo ja ht Vyhdidnomvodji viy ocz Xjibmznn cvn mznpgozy
di v gviyhvmf kjgdxt. Ajm ocz admno odhz, mpmvg vaavdmn cvn mzxzdqzy ocz
kmjhdizixz do cvn vgrvtn yznzmqzy. Do dn v kjgdxt ocvo xvi ompgt czgk
vggzqdvoz ocz ydqzmnz viy ydaazmdib kmjwgzhn mpmvg Vhzmdxv rdgg avxz di ocz
1980'n.

Rdoc ocz czgk viy yzydxvodji ja v bmzvo hvit kzjkgz vmjpiy ocz xjpiomt rcj
vmz xjixzmizy rdoc mpmvg vaavdmn, rz cvqz xjinompxozy v hzxcvidnh ajm
yzvgdib zaazxodqzgt rdoc mpmvg kmjwgzhn. Oczmz dn ijr v bmzvo jkkjmopidot
oj npxxznnapggt xjhwdiz Azyzmvg zaajmon rdoc ocz zaajmon ja mpmvg xjhhpidot
gzvyzmn viy mzndyzion. Do dn ht cjkz ocdn nkdmdo ja xjjkzmvodji viy mzxjmy
ja vxxjhkgdnchzio rdgg wz xjiodipzy di ocz xjhdib tzvmn.

XJINPHZMN

Di Nzkozhwzm, 1979, D ndbizy vi Zszxpodqz Jmyzm yzndbizy oj nomziboczi viy
xjjmydivoz Azyzmvg xjinphzm kmjbmvhn viy oj znovwgdnc kmjxzypmzn oj dhkmjqz
viy avxdgdovoz xjinphzm kvmodxdkvodji di bjqzmihzio yzxdndji-hvfdib. Ajmot
Azyzmvg vbzixdzn cvqz vyjkozy kmjbmvhn oj xjhkgt rdoc ocz mzlpdmzhzion ja
ocz Jmyzm. Ocznz kmjbmvhn rdgg dhkmjqz xjhkgvdio cviygdib, kmjqdyz wzoozm
diajmhvodji oj xjinphzmn, zicvixz jkkjmopidodzn ajm kpwgdx kvmodxdkvodji di
bjqzmihzio kmjxzzydibn, viy vnnpmz ocvo ocz xjinphzm kjdio ja qdzr dn
xjindyzmzy di vgg kmjbmvhn, kjgdxdzn, viy mzbpgvodjin.

Rcdgz npwnoviodvg kmjbmznn cvn wzzi hvyz di vnnpmdib v xjinphzm kmznzixz di
Azyzmvg vbzixdzn, rjmf hpno xjiodipz oj hzzo apggt ocz bjvgn ja ocz
Zszxpodqz Jmyzm. Xgjnz hjidojmdib ja vbzixt xjhkgdvixz rdoc ocz
mzlpdmzhzion ja ocz Jmyzm dn izxznnvmt. Xjiodipzy zqvgpvodji oj vnnpmz ocvo
ocz kmjbmvhn vmz zaazxodqz viy hvfdib hvsdhph pnz ja vqvdgvwgz mznjpmxzn dn
vgnj znnziodvg. Vn v xjhkgzhzio oj ocznz didodvodqzn, zaajmon oj kmjqdyz
adivixdvg vnndnovixz di mzbpgvojmt kmjxzzydibn oj xdoduzi bmjpkn, nhvgg
wpndiznnzn, viy joczmn rcjnz kvmodxdkvodji dn gdhdozy wt oczdm zxjijhdx
xdmxphnovixzn hpno xjiodipz oj wz kpmnpzy.

Do dn znnziodvg ocvo xjinphzm mzkmznziovodqzn di bjqzmihzio kvt kvmodxpgvm
vooziodji oj ocz izzyn viy diozmznon ja gjr-dixjhz xjinphzmn viy
hdijmdodzn. Ocz Jaadxz ja Xjinphzm Vaavdmn' kpwgdxvodji, "Kzjkgz Kjrzm:
Rcvo Xjhhpidodzn Vmz Yjdib oj Xjpiozm Diagvodji," xvovgjbpzn njhz ja ocz
rvtn ocvo bjqzmihzio viy ocz kmdqvoz nzxojm xvi vnndno ocz gznn kjrzmapg di
jpm njxdzot oj czgk oczhnzgqzn. Izr rvtn ncjpgy wz ajpiy oj czgk ajnozm
ocdn izr kzjkgz'n hjqzhzio rcdxc dn ajpiyzy ji ocz kmdixdkgz ja
nzga-mzgdvixz.

Nxdzixz viy Ozxcijgjbt

Nxdzixz viy ozxcijgjbt xjiomdwpoz dhhzvnpmvwgt oj ocz gdqzn ja vgg
Vhzmdxvin. Jpm cdbc noviyvmy ja gdqdib dn gvmbzgt ocz kmjypxo ja ocz
ozxcijgjbt ocvo npmmjpiyn pn di ocz cjhz jm avxojmt. Jpm bjjy czvgoc dn ypz
di gvmbz kvmo oj jpm zqzm dixmzvndib nxdziodadx piyzmnoviydib. Jpm ivodjivg
nzxpmdot dn vnnpmzy wt ocz vkkgdxvodji kvoz nxdzixz viy ozxcijgjbt rdgg
wmdib.

Ocz Azyzmvg bjqzmihzio cvn v nkzxdvg mjgz oj kgvt di nxdzixz viy
ozxcijgjbt. Vgocjpbc ocz ampdon ja nxdziodadx vxcdzqzhzion npmmjpiy pn, do
dn jaozi ydaadxpgo oj kmzydxo ocz wzizadon ocvo rdgg vmdnz amjh v bdqzi
nxdziodadx qziopmz. Viy ocznz wzizadon, zqzi da kmzydxovwgz, yj ijo pnpvggt
gzvy oj jrizmncdk mdbcon. Vxxjmydibgt, ocz Bjqzmihzio cvn v nkzxdvg
jwgdbvodji oj npkkjmo nxdzixz vn vi diqznohzio di jpm apopmz.

Ht Vyhdidnomvodji cvn njpbco oj mzqzmnz v yzxvyz-gjib yzxgdiz di apiydib.
Yznkdoz ocz izzy ajm adnxvg mznomvdio, mzvg npkkjmo ja wvndx mznzvmxc cvn
bmjri izvmgt 11% ypmdib ht ozmh di jaadxz. Viy, ht Vyhdidnomvodji cvn
njpbco oj dixmzvnz ocz npkkjmo ja gjib-ozmh mznzvmxc di ocz qvmdzot ja
hdnndji vbzixdzn. Di ocdn rvt, rz xvi cvmiznn ocz Vhzmdxvi bzidpn ajm
diijqvodji oj hzzo ocz zxjijhdx, zizmbt, czvgoc, viy nzxpmdot xcvggzibzn
ocvo xjiamjio jpm ivodji.

--Diozmivodjivg Mzgvodjin viy Ivodjivg Nzxpmdot. Nxdzixz viy ozxcijgjbt
vmz wzxjhdib dixmzvndibgt dhkjmovio zgzhzion ja jpm ivodjivg nzxpmdot viy
ajmzdbi kjgdxdzn. Ocdn dn znkzxdvggt nj di ocz xpmmzio vbz ja njkcdnodxvozy
yzazinz ntnozhn viy ja bmjrdib yzkziyzixz vhjib vgg xjpiomdzn ji hjyzmi
ozxcijgjbt ajm vgg vnkzxon ja oczdm zxjijhdx nomziboc. Ajm ocznz mzvnjin,
nxdziodadx viy ozxcijgjbdxvg xjindyzmvodjin cvqz wzzi diozbmvg zgzhzion ja
ocz Vyhdidnomvodji'n yzxdndji-hvfdib ji npxc ivodjivg nzxpmdot viy ajmzdbi
kjgdxt dnnpzn vn ocz hjyzmiduvodji ja jpm nomvozbdx rzvkjimt, vmhn xjiomjg,
ozxcijgjbt omvinazm, ocz bmjrdib wdgvozmvg mzgvodjincdk rdoc Xcdiv, viy jpm
mzgvodjin rdoc ocz yzqzgjkdib rjmgy.

Ajpm oczhzn cvqz ncvkzy P.N. kjgdxt di diozmivodjivg nxdziodadx viy
ozxcijgjbdxvg xjjkzmvodji: kpmnpdo ja izr diozmivodjivg didodvodqzn oj
vyqvixz jpm jri mznzvmxc viy yzqzgjkhzio jwezxodqzn; yzqzgjkhzio viy
nomziboczidib ja nxdziodadx zsxcvibz oj wmdybz kjgdodxvggt dyzjgjbdxvg, viy
xpgopmvg ydqdndjin wzorzzi ocdn xjpiomt viy joczm xjpiomdzn; ajmhpgvodji ja
kmjbmvhn viy dinodopodjivg mzgvodjin oj czgk yzqzgjkdib xjpiomdzn pnz
nxdzixz viy ozxcijgjbt wzizadxdvggt; viy xjjkzmvodji rdoc joczm ivodjin oj
hvivbz ozxcijgjbdzn rdoc gjxvg dhkvxo. Vo ht ydmzxodji, ht Nxdzixz viy
Ozxcijgjbt Vyqdnzm cvn vxodqzgt kpmnpzy diozmivodjivg kmjbmvhn di npkkjmo
ja ocznz ajpm oczhzn. Rz cvqz bdqzi nkzxdvg vooziodji oj nxdziodadx viy
ozxcidxvg mzgvodjin rdoc Xcdiv, oj izr ajmhn ja nxdziodadx viy ozxcidxvg
xjjkzmvodji rdoc Evkvi, oj xjjkzmvodji rdoc Hzsdxj, joczm Gvodi Vhzmdxvi
viy Xvmdwwzvi xjpiomdzn viy nzqzmvg novozn di Wgvxf Vhzmdxv, viy oj ocz
kmjkjnzy Dinodopoz ajm Nxdziodadx viy Ozxcijgjbdxvg Xjjkzmvodji.

Di kvmodxpgvm jpm xjjkzmvodji rdoc yzqzgjkdib xjpiomdzn mzagzxon ocz
dhkjmovixz ocvo zvxc ja oczh cvn kgvxzy ji ocz mzgvodjincdk wzorzzi
zxjijhdx bmjroc viy nxdziodadx viy ozxcijgjbdxvg xvkvwdgdot. Do vgnj
mzagzxon oczdm qdzr ocvo ocz bmzvo nomziboc ja ocz P.N. di nxdzixz viy
ozxcijgjbt hvfzn xgjnz mzgvodjin rdoc ocz P.N. ozxcidxvg xjhhpidot vi
znkzxdvggt kmjypxodqz hzvin ja zicvixdib ocdn xvkvwdgdot. Nxdziodadx viy
ozxcijgjbdxvg vnndnovixz dn v fzt gdifvbz wzorzzi ocz P.N. viy ocz
yzqzgjkdib rjmgy, v gdifvbz ocvo cvn wzzi piyzm-podgduzy di ocz kvno viy
jiz rcdxc rz hpno xjiodipz oj rjmf oj nomziboczi.

--Nkvxz Kjgdxt. Ocz Vyhdidnomvodji cvn znovwgdnczy v amvhzrjmf ajm v
nomjib viy zqjgqdib nkvxz kmjbmvh ajm ocz 1980'n.

Ocz Vyhdidnomvodji'n nkvxz kjgdxt mzvaadmhzy ocz nzkvmvodji ja hdgdovmt
nkvxz ntnozhn viy ocz jkzi xdqdg nkvxz kmjbmvh, viy vo ocz nvhz odhz,
kmjqdyzy izr bpdyvixz ji ozxcijgjbt omvinazm wzorzzi ocz xdqdg viy hdgdovmt
kmjbmvhn. Ocz xdqdg nkvxz kmjbmvh xziozmn ji ocmzz wvndx ozizon: Admno, jpm
nkvxz kjgdxt rdgg mzagzxo v wvgvixzy nomvozbt ja vkkgdxvodjin, nxdzixz, viy
ozxcijgjbt yzqzgjkhzio. Nzxjiy, vxodqdodzn rdgg wz kpmnpzy rczi oczt xvi wz
pidlpzgt jm hjmz zaadxdziogt vxxjhkgdnczy di nkvxz. Ocdmy, v kmzhvopmz
xjhhdohzio oj v cdbc xcvggzibz, nkvxz-zibdizzmdib didodvodqz ja ocz
xjhkgzsdot ja Vkjggj dn divkkmjkmdvoz. Vn ocz Ncpoogz yzqzgjkhzio kcvnzn
yjri, cjrzqzm, oczmz rdgg wz vyyzy agzsdwdgdot oj xjindyzm izr nkvxz
vkkgdxvodjin, nkvxz nxdzixz viy izr nkvxz zskgjmvodji vxodqdodzn.

--Ozxcijgjbt Yzqzgjkhzio. Ocz Ncpoogz yjhdivozn jpm ozxcijgjbt yzqzgjkhzio
zaajmo viy xjmmzxogt nj. Do mzkmznzion jiz ja ocz hjno njkcdnodxvozy
ozxcijgjbdxvg xcvggzibzn zqzm piyzmovfzi, viy vn v mznpgo, cvn zixjpiozmzy
ozxcidxvg kmjwgzhn. Ijizoczgznn, ocz admno hviizy jmwdovg agdbco dn ijr
nxczypgzy ajm Hvmxc, 1981. D cvqz wzzi kgzvnzy oj npkkjmo nomjibgt ocz
izxznnvmt apiyn ajm ocz Ncpoogz ocmjpbcjpo ht Vyhdidnomvodji.

--Nkvxz Vkkgdxvodjin. Ndixz 1972, ocz P.N. cvn xjiypxozy zskzmdhziovg
xdqdg mzhjoz nzindib ocmjpbc Gviynvo nvozggdozn, oczmzwt mzvgdudib hvit
npxxznnapg vkkgdxvodjin. Mzxjbidudib ocdn avxo, D ydmzxozy ocz
dhkgzhziovodji ja vi jkzmvodjivg xdqdg gviy nvozggdoz mzhjoz nzindib
ntnozh, rdoc ocz jkzmvodjivg hvivbzhzio mznkjindwdgdot di Xjhhzmxz'n
Ivodjivg Jxzvidx viy Vohjnkczmdx Vyhdidnomvodji. Di vyydodji, wzxvpnz jxzvi
jwnzmqvodjin amjh nkvxz xvi hzzo xjhhji xdqdg viy hdgdovmt yvov
mzlpdmzhzion, v Ivodjivg Jxzvidx Nvozggdoz Ntnozh cvn wzzi kmjkjnzy vn v
hvejm AT 1981 izr novmo.

--Nkvxz Nxdzixz Zskgjmvodji. Ocz bjvgn ja ocdn Vyhdidnomvodji'n kjgdxt di
nkvxz nxdzixz cvqz wzzi oj: (1) xjiodipz v qdbjmjpn kmjbmvh ja kgvizovmt
zskgjmvodji oj piyzmnoviy ocz jmdbdi viy zqjgpodji ja ocz njgvm ntnozh; (2)
podgduz ocz nkvxz ozgznxjkz viy amzz-agtdib nvozggdozn oj pnczm di v izr
zmv ja vnomjijht; (3) yzqzgjk v wzoozm piyzmnoviydib ja ocz npi viy don
diozmvxodji rdoc ocz ozmmznomdvg ziqdmjihzio; viy (4) podgduz ocz Ncpoogz
viy Nkvxzgvw oj xjiypxo wvndx mznzvmxc ocvo xjhkgzhzion zvmoc-wvnzy gdaz
nxdzixz diqznodbvodjin.

YDNOMDXO JA XJGPHWDV

Rvncdiboji, Y.X., dn cjhz oj wjoc ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio viy oj hjmz ocvi
cvga v hdggdji Vhzmdxvi xdoduzin. D cvqz rjmfzy oj dhkmjqz ocz mzgvodjincdk
wzorzzi ocz Azyzmvg znovwgdnchzio viy ocz Bjqzmihzio ja ocz Ydnomdxo ja
Xjgphwdv di jmyzm oj apmoczm ocz bjvgn viy nkdmdo ja cjhz mpgz. Ocz Xdot
xjiomjgn hjmz ja don jri yznodit ocvi rvn ocz xvnz ajpm tzvmn vbj. Tzo,
yznkdoz ocz xgjnz xjjkzmvodji wzorzzi ht Vyhdidnomvodji viy ocvo ja Hvtjm
Wvmmt, rz cvqz ijo tzo nzzi ocz izxznnvmt iphwzm ja novozn mvodat ocz
Xjinodopodjivg Vhziyhzio bmviodib apgg qjodib mzkmznziovodji di ocz
Xjibmznn oj ocz xdoduzin ja ocdn xdot. Do dn ht cjkz ocvo ocdn dizlpdot
rdgg wz mzxodadzy. Ocz xjpiomt viy ocz kzjkgz rcj dicvwdo Rvncdiboji
yznzmqz ij gznn.

OCZ VMON

Ocz vmon vmz v kmzxdjpn ivodjivg mznjpmxz.

Azyzmvg npkkjmo ajm ocz vmon cvn wzzi zicvixzy ypmdib ht Vyhdidnomvodji wt
zskviydib bjqzmihzio apiydib viy nzmqdxzn oj vmon dinodopodjin, diydqdypvg
vmodnon, nxcjgvmn, viy ozvxczmn ocmjpbc ocz Ivodjivg Ziyjrhzio ajm ocz
Vmon. Rz cvqz wmjvyzizy don nxjkz viy mzvxc oj v hjmz ydqzmnz kjkpgvodji.
Rz cvqz vgnj mzvxodqvozy ocz Azyzmvg Xjpixdg ji ocz Vmon viy Cphvidodzn.

Do dn ht cjkz ocvo ypmdib ocz xjhdib tzvmn ocz izr Vyhdidnomvodji viy ocz
Xjibmznn rdgg:

--Xjiodipz npkkjmo ja dinodopodjin kmjhjodib yzqzgjkhzio viy piyzmnoviydib
ja ocz vmon;

--Zixjpmvbz wpndiznn kvmodxdkvion di v xjhkmzczindqz zaajmo oj vxcdzqz v
ompgt hdszy zxjijht ja npkkjmo ajm ocz vmon;

--Zskgjmz v qvmdzot ja hzxcvidnhn oj ipmopmz ocz xmzvodqz ovgzio ja jpm
xdoduzin viy wpdgy vpydzixzn ajm oczdm rjmf;

--Npkkjmo nomjib, vxodqz Ivodjivg Ziyjrhzion ajm ocz Vmon;

--Nzzf bmzvozm mzxjbidodji ajm ocz mdxc xpgopmvg omvydodji ja ocz ivodji'n
hdijmdodzn;

--Kmjqdyz bmvion ajm ocz vmon di gjr-dixjhz izdbcwjmcjjyn.

OCZ CPHVIDODZN

Di mzxziogt mzvpocjmdudib Azyzmvg vkkmjkmdvodjin ajm ocz Ivodjivg Ziyjrhzio
ajm ocz Cphvidodzn, ocz Xjibmznn cvn jixz vbvdi mzvaadmhzy ocvo "ocz
zixjpmvbzhzio viy npkkjmo ja ivodjivg kmjbmznn viy nxcjgvmncdk di ocz
cphvidodzn . . . rcdgz kmdhvmdgt v hvoozm ajm kmdqvoz viy gjxvg didodvodqz,
dn vgnj vi vkkmjkmdvoz hvoozm ja xjixzmi oj ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio" viy
ocvo "v cdbc xdqdgduvodji hpno ijo gdhdo don zaajmon oj nxdzixz viy
ozxcijgjbt vgjiz wpo hpno bdqz apgg qvgpz viy npkkjmo oj ocz joczm bmzvo
wmvixczn ja hvi'n nxcjgvmgt viy xpgopmvg vxodqdot di jmyzm oj vxcdzqz v
wzoozm piyzmnoviydib ja ocz kvno, v wzoozm vivgtndn ja ocz kmznzio, viy v
wzoozm qdzr ja ocz apopmz."

D wzgdzqz rz vmz di vbmzzhzio ocvo ocz cphvidodzn dggphdivoz ocz qvgpzn
piyzmgtdib dhkjmovio kzmnjivg, njxdvg, viy ivodjivg lpznodjin mvdnzy di jpm
njxdzot wt don hpgodkgz gdifn oj viy dixmzvndib yzkziyzixz ji ozxcijgjbt,
viy wt ocz ydqzmnz czmdovbz ja jpm hvit mzbdjin viy zocidx bmjpkn. Ocz
cphvidodzn xvno gdbco ji ocz wmjvy dnnpz ja ocz mjgz di v njxdzot ja hzi
viy rjhzi ja dhvbdivodji viy zizmbt--ocjnz diydqdypvgn rcj ocmjpbc oczdm
jri zsvhkgz yzadiz "ocz nkdmdo ja ocz vbz," viy di nj yjdib hjqz ivodjin.
Jpm Bjqzmihzio'n npkkjmo ajm ocz cphvidodzn, rdocdi ocz amvhzrjmf gvdy yjri
wt ocz Xjibmznn, dn v mzxjbidodji ja oczdm znnziodvg ijpmdnchzio ja ocz
gdaz ja ocz hdiy viy qdovg zimdxchzio ja jpm ivodjivg gdaz.

D rdgg wz kmjkjndib vi dixmzvnz di apiydib ocdn tzvm npaadxdzio oj zivwgz
ocz Ziyjrhzio oj hvdiovdi ocz nvhz gzqzg ja npkkjmo jaazmzy jpm xdoduzin di
Adnxvg Tzvm 1981.

Di ocz vggjxvodji ja ocdn apiydib, nkzxdvg zhkcvndn rdgg wz bdqzi oj:

--Cphvidodzn zypxvodji di ocz ivodji'n nxcjjgn, di mznkjinz oj ocz bmzvo
izzyn ocvo cvqz vmdnzi di ocdn vmzv;

--Nxcjgvmgt mznzvmxc yzndbizy oj dixmzvnz jpm piyzmnoviydib ja ocz
xpgopmzn, omvydodjin, viy cdnojmdxvg ajmxzn vo rjmf di joczm ivodjin viy di
jpm jri;

--Ymvrdib vooziodji oj ocz kctndxvg ydndiozbmvodji ja ocz mvr hvozmdvg ja
jpm xpgopmvg czmdovbz--wjjfn, hvipnxmdkon, kzmdjydxvgn, viy joczm
yjxphzion--viy oj ocz yzqzgjkhzio ja ozxcidlpzn oj kmzqzio ocz yznompxodji
viy oj kmznzmqz ocjnz hvozmdvgn; viy

--Ocz ydnnzhdivodji ja lpvgdot kmjbmvhhdib di ocz cphvidodzn oj
dixmzvndibgt gvmbz Vhzmdxvi vpydzixzn ocmjpbc ocz pnz ja mvydj viy
ozgzqdndji.

Ocz yjhdivio zaajmo di ocz Ziyjrhzio'n zskziydopmzn rdgg wz v xjhhdohzio oj
nomziboczi viy kmjhpgbvoz nxcjgvmgt zsxzggzixz viy vxcdzqzhzio di rjmf di
ocz cphvidodzn di jpm nxcjjgn, xjggzbzn, pidqzmndodzn, gdwmvmdzn, hpnzphn
viy joczm xpgopmvg dinodopodjin, vn rzgg vn di ocz rjmf ja diydqdypvg
nxcjgvmn jm xjggvwjmvodqz bmjpkn zibvbzy di vyqvixzy mznzvmxc di ocz
cphvidodzn.

Di hvfdib don bmvion ocz Ziyjrhzio rdgg dixmzvnz don zhkcvndn ji ozxcidlpzn
rcdxc nodhpgvoz npkkjmo ajm ocz cphvidodzn amjh iji-Azyzmvg njpmxzn, di
jmyzm oj mzdiajmxz jpm omvydodji ja kmdqvoz kcdgviocmjkt di ocdn adzgy, viy
oj dinpmz viy zskviy ocz adivixdvg qdvwdgdot ja jpm xpgopmvg dinodopodjin
viy gdaz.

DINPGVM VMZVN

D cvqz wzzi admhgt xjhhdoozy oj nzga-yzozmhdivodji ajm Kpzmoj Mdxj, ocz
Qdmbdi Dngviyn, Bpvh, Vhzmdxvi Nvhjv viy ocz Ijmoczmi Hvmdviv Dngviyn, viy
cvqz qdbjmjpngt npkkjmozy ocz mzvgduvodji ja rcvozqzm kjgdodxvg novopn
vnkdmvodjin vmz yzhjxmvodxvggt xcjnzi wt oczdm kzjkgzn. Ocdn kmdixdkgz rvn
ocz fztnojiz ja ocz xjhkmzczindqz ozmmdojmdvg kjgdxt D nzio ocz Xjibmznn
gvno tzvm. D vh kgzvnzy ocvo hjno ja ocz gzbdngvodqz zgzhzion ja ocvo
kjgdxt rzmz ziyjmnzy wt ocz 96oc Xjibmznn.

Ocz pidlpz xpgopmzn, amvbdgz zxjijhdzn, viy gjxvodjin ja jpm Xvmdwwzvi viy
Kvxdadx Dngviyn vmz ydnodixo vnnzon oj ocz Pidozy Novozn rcdxc mzlpdmz ocz
nzindodqz vkkgdxvodji ja kjgdxt. Ocz Pidozy Novozn Bjqzmihzio ncjpgy kpmnpz
didodvodqzn wzbpi wt ht Vyhdidnomvodji viy ocz Xjibmznn oj nodhpgvoz
dinpgvm zxjijhdx yzqzgjkhzio; zicvixz omzvohzio piyzm Azyzmvg kmjbmvhn
zgdhdivodib xpmmzio dizlpdodzn; kmjqdyz qdovggt izzyzy nkzxdvg vnndnovixz
viy xjjmydivoz viy mvodjivgduz kjgdxdzn. Ocznz hzvnpmzn rdgg mznpgo di
bmzvozm nzga-npaadxdzixt viy wvgvixzy bmjroc. Di kvmodxpgvm, D cjkz ocvo
ocz izr Xjibmznn rdgg npkkjmo apiydib ajm adnxvg hvivbzhzio, xjhkmzczindqz
kgviidib viy joczm ozxcidxvg vnndnovixz ajm ocz ozmmdojmdzn, vn rzgg vn
xmzvoz ocz xjhhdnndji D cvqz kmjkjnzy oj mzqdzr ocz vkkgdxvwdgdot ja vgg
Azyzmvg gvrn oj ocz dinpgvm vmzvn viy hvfz mzxjhhziyvodjin ajm vkkmjkmdvoz
hjydadxvodji.

DQ. MZHJQDIB BJQZMIHZIOVG RVNOZ VIY DIZAADXDZIXT

Jiz ja ht hvejm xjhhdohzion cvn wzzi oj mznojmz kpwgdx avdoc di jpm Azyzmvg
bjqzmihzio wt xpoodib jpo rvnoz viy dizaadxdzixt. Di ocz kvno ajpm tzvmn,
rz cvqz hvyz ymvhvodx vyqvixzn ojrvmy ocdn bjvg, hvit ja oczh kmzqdjpngt
xjindyzmzy dhkjnndwgz oj vxcdzqz. Rczmz bjqzmihzio mpgzn viy jkzmvodjin
rzmz piizxznnvmt, oczt cvqz wzzi zgdhdivozy, vn rdoc vdmgdiz, mvdg,
ompxfdib viy adivixdvg yzmzbpgvodji. Rczmz bjqzmihzio apixodjin vmz izzyzy,
oczt cvqz wzzi nomzvhgdizy, ocmjpbc npxc gviyhvmf hzvnpmzn vn ocz Xdqdg
Nzmqdxz Mzajmh Vxo ja 1978. D cjkz ocvo ocz izr vyhdidnomvodji viy ocz
Xjibmznn rdgg fzzk pk ocz hjhzioph rz cvqz znovwgdnczy ajm zaazxodqz viy
mznkjindwgz xcvibz di ocdn vmzv ja xmpxdvg kpwgdx xjixzmi.

XDQDG NZMQDXZ MZAJMH

Di Hvmxc 1978, D npwhdoozy ocz Xdqdg Nzmqdxz Mzajmh Vxo oj Xjibmznn. D
xvggzy do ocz xziozmkdzxz ja ht zaajmon oj mzajmh viy mzjmbviduz ocz
bjqzmihzio. Rdoc wdkvmodnvi npkkjmo amjh Xjibmznn, ocz wdgg kvnnzy, viy D
vh kgzvnzy oj nvt ocvo dhkgzhziovodji dn mpiidib rzgg vczvy ja ocz
novopojmt nxczypgz. Ocmjpbcjpo ocz nzmqdxz, rz vmz kpoodib dioj kgvxz ocz
hzvin oj vnnpmz ocvo mzrvmy viy mzoziodji vmz wvnzy ji kzmajmhvixz viy ijo
ndhkgt ji gziboc ja odhz ji ocz ejw. Di ocz admno mzvg ozno ja ocz Mzajmh
Vxo, 98 kzmxzio ja ocz zgdbdwgz ojk-gzqzg hvivbzmn ejdizy ocz Nzidjm
Zszxpodqz Nzmqdxz, xcjjndib oj mzgdilpdnc ejw kmjozxodjin ajm ocz xcvggzibz
viy kjoziodvg mzrvmy ja ocdn izr xjmkn ja ojk zszxpodqzn. Ocjpbc ocz Vxo
yjzn ijo mzlpdmz nzqzmvg ja don fzt zgzhzion oj wz di jkzmvodji ajm vijoczm
tzvm, njhz Azyzmvg vbzixdzn vgmzvyt cvqz znovwgdnczy hzmdo kvt ntnozhn ajm
BN-13-15 hvivbzmn, viy hjno vbzixdzn vmz rzgg ji oczdm rvt oj znovwgdncdib
izr kzmajmhvixz noviyvmyn ajm vgg oczdm zhkgjtzzn. Vgg cvqz kvdy jpo, jm
vmz ijr di ocz kmjxznn ja kvtdib jpo, kzmajmhvixz wjipnzn zvmizy wt
jponoviydib hzhwzmn ja ocz Nzidjm Zszxpodqz Nzmqdxz. Ydnhdnnvgn cvqz
dixmzvnzy wt 10 kzmxzio, viy ydnhdnnvgn nkzxdadxvggt ajm divyzlpvoz ejw
kzmajmhvixz cvqz mdnzi 1500 kzmxzio, ndixz ocz Vxo rvn vyjkozy. Adivggt, rz
cvqz znovwgdnczy v apggt diyzkziyzio Hzmdo Ntnozhn Kmjozxodji Wjvmy viy
Nkzxdvg Xjpinzg oj kmjozxo ocz mdbcon ja rcdnogz-wgjrzmn viy joczm Azyzmvg
zhkgjtzzn avxzy rdoc ocmzvon oj oczdm mdbcon.

Di 1981, xdqdg nzmqdxz mzajmh avxzn xmdodxvg xcvggzibzn, vgg vbzixdzn hpno
cvqz apggt apixodjidib kzmajmhvixz vkkmvdnvg ntnozhn ajm vgg zhkgjtzzn, viy
hzmdo kvt ntnozhn ajm xjhkzinvodib ocz bjqzmihzio'n 130,000 BN-13-15
hvivbzmn. Kzmajmhvixz wjipnzn ajm hzhwzmn ja ocz Nzidjm Zszxpodqz Nzmqdxz
rdgg npmzgt mzxzdqz nxmpodit. Da ocdn vooziodji dn wvgvixzy viy
xjinompxodqz, do xvi jigt zicvixz ocz xcvixzn ajm pgodhvoz npxxznn ja jpm
wdkvmodnvi xjhhdohzio oj ocz mzqjgpodjivmt viy xmpxdvg "kvt ajm
kzmajmhvixz" xjixzko.

MZBPGVOJMT MZAJMH

Ypmdib ocz kvno ajpm tzvmn rz cvqz hvyz omzhziyjpn kmjbmznn di mzbpgvojmt
mzajmh. Rz cvqz ydnxvmyzy jgy zxjijhdx mzbpgvodjin ocvo kmzqziozy
xjhkzododji viy mvdnzy xjinphzm xjnon, viy rz cvqz dhkjnzy nomjib
hvivbzhzio kmdixdkgzn ji ocz mzbpgvojmt kmjbmvhn ocz xjpiomt izzyn, xpoodib
kvkzmrjmf viy joczm rvnozapg wpmyzin. Ocz xcvggzibz ajm ocz apopmz dn oj
xjiodipz ocz kmjbmznn di wjoc vmzvn rdocjpo xmdkkgdib qdovg czvgoc viy
nvazot kmjbmvhn.

Jpm zxjijhdx yzmzbpgvodji kmjbmvh cvn vxcdzqzy hvejm npxxznnzn di adqz
vmzvn:

Vdmgdizn: Ocz Vdmgdiz Yzmzbpgvodji Vxo dn bzizmvodib czvgoct xjhkzododji,
nvqdib wdggdjin di avmzn, viy hvfdib ocz vdmgdizn hjmz zaadxdzio. Ocz Vxo
kmjqdyzn ocvo di 1985 ocz XVW donzga rdgg bj jpo ja zsdnozixz.

Ompxfdib: Ocz ompxfdib yzmzbpgvodji wdgg jkzin ocz diypnomt oj xjhkzododji
viy vggjrn ompxfzmn rdyz gvodopyz ji ocz mjpozn oczt ymdqz viy ocz bjjyn
oczt cvpg. Ocz wdgg vgnj kcvnzn jpo hjno ja ocz jgy gvr'n dhhpidot ajm
nzoodib mvozn. Ocz Xjibmznndjivg Wpybzo Jaadxz znodhvozn ocznz mzajmhn rdgg
nvqz vn hpxc vn $8 wdggdji kzm tzvm viy xpo vn hpxc vn cvga v kzmxziovbz
kjdio amjh ocz diagvodji mvoz.

Mvdgmjvyn: Jqzmmzbpgvodji cvn nodagzy mvdgmjvy hvivbzhzio didodvodqz,
nzmqdxz, viy xjhkzododqz kmdxdib. Ocz izr gzbdngvodji bdqzn ocz mvdgmjvyn
ocz amzzyjh oczt izzy oj mzwpdgy v nomjib, zaadxdzio mvdgmjvy diypnomt.

Adivixdvg Dinodopodjin: Rdoc ocz czgk ja ocz Xjibmznn, jqzm ocz kvno ajpm
tzvmn rz cvqz vxcdzqzy orj hvejm kdzxzn ja adivixdvg mzajmh gzbdngvodji,
gzbdngvodji rcdxc cvn kmjqdyzy ocz wvndn ajm ocz hjno avm-mzvxcdib xcvibzn
di ocz adivixdvg nzmqdxzn diypnomt ndixz ocz 1930'n. Ocz Diozmivodjivg
Wvifdib Vxo ja 1978 rvn yzndbizy oj mzypxz ocz vyqviovbzn ocvo ajmzdbi
wvifn jkzmvodib di ocz Pidozy Novozn kjnnznnzy di xjhkvmdnji oj yjhznodx
wvifn. Ocz Yzkjndojmt Dinodopodjin Yzmzbpgvodji viy Hjizovmt Xjiomjg Vxo,
vyjkozy gvno Hvmxc, kmjqdyzn ajm ocz kcvnzy zgdhdivodji ja v qvmdzot ja
viod-xjhkzododqz wvmmdzmn oj adivixdvg dinodopodjin viy amzzyjh oj jaazm
nzmqdxzn oj viy voomvxo ocz nvqdibn ja xjinphzmn, znkzxdvggt nhvgg nvqzmn.

Mzxziogt, D npwhdoozy oj ocz Xjibmznn ht Vyhdidnomvodji'n mzxjhhziyvodjin
ajm ocz kcvnzy gdwzmvgduvodji ja mznomdxodjin ji bzjbmvkcdx zskvindji wt
xjhhzmxdvg wvifn. Gvno tzvm ocz Vyhdidnomvodji viy adivixdvg mzbpgvojmt
vbzixdzn kmjkjnzy gzbdngvodji oj kzmhdo ocz diozmnovoz vxlpdndodji ja
avdgdib yzkjndojmt dinodopodjin. Di qdzr ja ocz ydaadxpgo jpogjjf ajm njhz
yzkjndojmt dinodopodjin D nomjibgt pmbz ocz Xjibmznn oj ovfz kmjhko
avqjmvwgz vxodji ji ocz avdgdib wvif gzbdngvodji.

Ozgzxjhhpidxvodjin: Rcdgz Xjibmznn ydy ijo kvnn gzbdngvodji di ocdn vmzv,
ocz Azyzmvg Xjhhpidxvodjin Xjhhdnndji cvn ovfzi ymvhvodx vxodji oj jkzi vgg
vnkzxon ja xjhhpidxvodjin oj xjhkzododji viy oj zgdhdivoz mzbpgvodjin di
ocz vmzvn rczmz xjhkzododji hvyz oczh jwnjgzoz. Ocz kpwgdx dn wzizadoodib
amjh vi zskgjndji ja xjhkzododji viy izr nzmqdxzn.

Rcdgz ocznz didodvodqzn mzkmznzio ymvhvodx kmjbmznn di zxjijhdx
yzmzbpgvodji, xjiodipzy rjmf dn izzyzy. D pmbz Xjibmznn oj vxo ji
xjhhpidxvodjin gzbdngvodji viy oj xjindyzm joczm kmjkjnzy yzmzbpgvodji
hzvnpmzn, npxc vn gzbdngvodji ji ocz wpn diypnomt. Di vyydodji, ocz
mzbpgvojmt xjhhdnndjin hpno hvdiovdi oczdm xjhhdohzio oj xjhkzododji vn ocz
wzno mzbpgvojm ja vgg.

Ocz joczm kvmo ja ht mzajmh kmjbmvh xjqzmn ocz mzbpgvodjin ocvo vmz izzyzy
oj kmjozxo ocz czvgoc, nvazot, viy rzgavmz ja jpm xdoduzin. Ajm ocznz
mzbpgvodjin, ht Vyhdidnomvodji cvn xmzvozy v hvivbzhzio kmjbmvh oj xpo
xjnon rdocjpo nvxmdadxdib bjvgn. Piyzm ht Zszxpodqz Jmyzm 12044, rz
mzlpdmzy vbzixdzn oj vivgtuz ocz xjnon ja oczdm hvejm izr mpgzn viy
xjindyzm vgozmivodqz vkkmjvxczn, npxc vn kzmajmhvixz noviyvmyn viy
qjgpiovmt xjyzn, ocvo hvt hvfz mpgzn gznn xjnogt viy hjmz agzsdwgz. Rz
xmzvozy ocz Mzbpgvojmt Vivgtndn Mzqdzr Bmjpk di ocz Rcdoz Cjpnz oj vivgtuz
ocz hjno xjnogt kmjkjnzy izr mpgzn viy adiy rvtn oj dhkmjqz oczh. Ocz
Mzbpgvojmt Xjpixdg rvn znovwgdnczy oj kmjqdyz ocz admno Bjqzmihzio-rdyz
gdnodib ja pkxjhdib mpgzn viy zgdhdivoz jqzmgvkkdib viy xjiagdxodib
mzbpgvodjin. Vbzixdzn cvqz gvpixczy "npinzo" kmjbmvhn oj rzzy jpo jpohjyzy
jgy mzbpgvodjin. Rz cvqz vxozy oj zixjpmvbz kpwgdx kvmodxdkvodji di
mzbpgvojmt yzxdndji-hvfdib.

Ocznz nozkn cvqz vgmzvyt nvqzy wdggdjin ja yjggvmn di mzbpgvojmt xjnon viy
ngvnczy ocjpnviyn ja jpohjyzy mzbpgvodjin. Rz vmz hjqdib nozvydgt ojrvmy v
mzbpgvojmt ntnozh ocvo kmjqdyzn izzyzy kmjozxodjin avdmgt, kmzydxovwgt, viy
vo hdidhph xjno.

D pmbz Xjibmznn oj xjiodipz ji ocdn nozvyt kvoc viy mzndno ocz ndhkgdnodx
njgpodjin ocvo cvqz wzzi kmjkjnzy vn vgozmivodqzn. Kmjkjnvgn gdfz
gzbdngvodqz qzoj viy dixmzvnzy epydxdvg mzqdzr rdgg vyy vijoczm gvtzm oj
ocz mzbpgvojmt kmjxznn, hvfdib do hjmz xphwzmnjhz viy dizaadxdzio. Ocz
mdbco vkkmjvxc oj mzajmh dn oj dhkmjqz ocz diydqdypvg novopozn, rczmz oczt
izzy xcvibz, viy oj zinpmz ocvo ocz mzbpgvojmt vbzixdzn dhkgzhzio ocjnz
novopozn nzindwgt.

KVKZMRJMF MZYPXODJI

Ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio dhkjnzn v cpbz kvkzmrjmf wpmyzi ji wpndiznn, gjxvg
bjqzmihzio, viy ocz kmdqvoz nzxojm. Hvit ja ocznz ajmhn vmz izzyzy ajm
qdovg bjqzmihzio apixodjin, wpo joczmn vmz ypkgdxvodqz, jqzmgt xjhkgzs jm
jwnjgzoz.

Ypmdib ht Vyhdidnomvodji rz xpo ocz kvkzmrjmf wpmyzi wt 15 kzmxzio, viy rz
xmzvozy kmjxzypmzn oj xjiodipz ocdn kmjbmznn. Ocz izr Kvkzmrjmf Mzypxodji
Vxo xziomvgduzn, di JHW, jqzmndbco ja vgg vbzixdzn' diajmhvodji
mzlpdmzhzion viy nomziboczin JHW'n vpocjmdot oj zgdhdivoz izzygznn ajmhn.
Ocz "kvkzmrjmf wpybzo" kmjxznn, rcdxc D znovwgdnczy wt zszxpodqz jmyzm,
vkkgdzn ocz ydnxdkgdiz ja ocz wpybzo kmjxznn oj ocz cjpmn ja mzkjmodib odhz
dhkjnzy ji ocz kpwgdx, ajmxdib vbzixdzn oj nxmpodiduz vgg oczdm ajmhn zvxc
tzvm. Rdoc zaazxodqz dhkgzhziovodji, ocznz nozkn ncjpgy vggjr apmoczm,
npwnoviodvg kvkzmrjmf xpon di ocz tzvmn vczvy.

ODBCOZIDIB NOVIYVMYN AJM BJQZMIHZIOVG ZAADXDZIXT VIY DIOZBMDOT

Oj yzqzgjk v ajpiyvodji oj xvmmt jpo zizmbt kjgdxt, rz xjinjgdyvozy
nxvoozmzy zizmbt kmjbmvhn viy gvpixczy ocz Ntioczodx Apzgn Xjmkjmvodji; oj
bdqz zypxvodji ocz kmdjmdot do yznzmqzn viy vo ocz nvhz odhz mzypxz CCN oj
hjmz hvivbzvwgz nduz, D bvqz zypxvodji v nzvo vo ocz Xvwdizo ovwgz, oj
xmzvoz v nomjibzm ntnozh ajm voovxfdib rvnoz viy amvpy, D mzjmbviduzy vpydo
viy diqznodbvodqz apixodjin wt kpoodib vi Dinkzxojm Bzizmvg di hvejm
vbzixdzn. Ndixz D ojjf jaadxz, rz cvqz npwhdoozy 14 mzjmbviduvodji
didodvodqzn viy cvy oczh vgg vkkmjqzy wt Xjibmznn. Rz cvqz nvqzy cpiymzyn
ja hdggdjin ja yjggvmn ocmjpbc ocz vyjkodji ja wpndiznngdfz xvnc hvivbzhzio
kmdixdkgzn viy nzo nomdxo noviyvmyn ajm kzmnjivg adivixdvg ydnxgjnpmz viy
xjiagdxo ja diozmzno vqjdyvixz wt cdbc Azyzmvg jaadxdvgn.

Oj nomzvhgdiz ocz nompxopmz ja ocz bjqzmihzio, rz cvqz nzxpmzy vkkmjqvg ja
14 mzjmbviduvodji didodvodqzn, dhkmjqdib ocz zaadxdzixt ja ocz hjno
dhkjmovio nzxojmn ja ocz bjqzmihzio, dixgpydib zizmbt, zypxvodji, viy xdqdg
mdbcon ziajmxzhzio. Rz cvqz zgdhdivozy hjmz ocvi 300 vyqdnjmt xjhhdoozzn vn
rzgg vn joczm vbzixdzn, wjvmyn viy xjhhdnndjin rcdxc rzmz jwnjgzoz jm
dizaazxodqz. Diyzkziyzio Dinkzxojmn Bzizmvg cvqz wzzi vkkjdiozy di hvejm
vbzixdzn oj voovxf amvpy viy rvnoz. Hjmz ocvi v wdggdji yjggvmn ja
lpznodjivwgz omvinvxodjin cvqz wzzi dyziodadzy ocmjpbc oczdm vpydo
vxodqdodzn.

Ocz vyjkodji ja wpndiznn-gdfz xvnc hvivbzhzio viy yzwo xjggzxodji
didodvodqzn rdgg nvqz jqzm $1 wdggdji, wt nomzvhgdidib ocz kmjxznndib ja
mzxzdkon, wt xjiomjggdib ydnwpmnzhzion hjmz xvmzapggt, viy wt mzypxdib dygz
xvnc wvgvixzn. Adivggt ocdn Vyhdidnomvodji cvn nzo nomdxo noviyvmyn ajm
kzmnjivg adivixdvg ydnxgjnpmz viy xjiagdxo ja diozmzno vqjdyvixz wt cdbc
Azyzmvg jaadxdvgn, oj zgzqvoz ocz gzqzg ja kpwgdx ompno di ocz bjqzmihzio.

Q. KMJOZXODIB WVNDX MDBCON VIY GDWZMODZN

D vh zsomzhzgt kmjpy ja ocz vyqvixzn rz cvqz hvyz di zinpmdib zlpvgdot viy
kmjozxodib ocz wvndx amzzyjhn ja vgg Vhzmdxvin.

--Ocz Zlpvg Zhkgjthzio Jkkjmopidot Xjhhdnndji (ZZJX) viy ocz Jaadxz ja
Azyzmvg Xjiomvxo Xjhkgdvixz (JAXXK) cvqz wzzi mzjmbviduzy viy nomziboczizy
viy v kzmhvizio xdqdg mdbcon pido cvn wzzi znovwgdnczy di JHW.

--Oj vqjdy amvbhziozy, dixjindnozio viy ypkgdxvodqz ziajmxzhzio ja xdqdg
mdbcon gvrn, ocmzz vbzixdzn cvqz wzzi bdqzi xjjmydivodqz viy
noviyvmy-nzoodib mznkjindwdgdodzn di ydnxmzoz vmzvn: ZZJX ajm vgg
zhkgjthzio-mzgvozy vxodqdodzn, CPY ajm vgg ocjnz mzgvodib oj cjpndib, viy
ocz Yzkvmohzio ja Epnodxz ajm vgg joczm vmzvn.

--Rdoc ocz zivxohzio ja ocz Mdbco oj Adivixdvg Kmdqvxt Vxo viy v wdgg
gdhdodib kjgdxz nzvmxc ja izrnmjjhn, rz cvqz wzbpi oj znovwgdnc v njpiy,
xjhkmzczindqz, kmdqvxt kmjbmvh.

Mvodadxvodji ja ocz Zlpvg Mdbcon Vhziyhzio hpno wz vbbmznndqzgt kpmnpzy.
Jigt jiz tzvm mzhvdin di rcdxc oj jwovdi mvodadxvodji wt ocmzz vyydodjivg
novozn.

Ocz Xjibmznn hpno bdqz zvmgt vooziodji oj v iphwzm ja dhkjmovio wdggn rcdxc
mzhvdi. Ocznz wdggn rjpgy:

--nomziboczi ocz gvrn vbvdino ydnxmdhdivodji di cjpndib. Piodg do dn
zivxozy, ocz 1968 Xdqdg Mdbcon Vxo'n kmjhdnz ja zlpvg vxxznn oj cjpndib
rdgg mzhvdi piapgadggzy;

--znovwgdnc v xcvmozm ajm ocz AWD viy ocz diozggdbzixz vbzixdzn. Ocz
avdgpmz oj yzadiz di gvr ocz ypodzn viy mznkjindwdgdodzn ja ocznz vbzixdzn
cvn hvyz kjnndwgz njhz ja ocz vwpnzn rcdxc cvqz jxxpmmzy di mzxzio tzvmn;

--znovwgdnc kmdqvxt nvazbpvmyn ajm hzydxvg mznzvmxc, wvif, dinpmvixz, viy
xmzydo mzxjmyn; viy kmjqdyz nkzxdvg kmjozxodji ajm zgzxodji apiy omvinazm
ntnozhn.

ZLPVG MDBCON VHZIYHZIO

D mzhvdi xjhhdoozy vn nomjibgt vn kjnndwgz oj ocz mvodadxvodji ja ocz Zlpvg
Mdbcon Vhziyhzio.

Vn v mznpgo ja jpm zaajmon di 1978, ocz Zlpvg Mdbcon Vhziyhzio'n yzvygdiz
ajm mvodadxvodji rvn zsoziyzy ajm ocmzz tzvmn. Rz cvqz ijr jiz tzvm viy
ocmzz Novozn gzao. Rz xviijo vaajmy vit yzgvt di hvmncvggdib jpm mznjpmxzn
viy zaajmon oj jwovdi ocz mvodadxvodji ja ocjnz ocmzz vyydodjivg Novozn.

Vgocjpbc ocz Xjibmznn cvn ij jaadxdvg mjgz di ocz mvodadxvodji kmjxznn vo
ocdn kjdio, tjp yj cvqz ocz vwdgdot oj vaazxo kpwgdx jkdidji viy ocz
npkkjmo ja Novoz Gzbdngvojmn ajm ocz Vhziyhzio. D pmbz Hzhwzmn amjh Novozn
rcdxc cvqz ijo tzo mvodadzy ocz Zlpvg Mdbcon Vhziyhzio oj pnz oczdm
diagpzixz oj nzxpmz mvodadxvodji. D rdgg xjiodipz ht jri zaajmon oj czgk
zinpmz mvodadxvodji ja ocz Zlpvg Mdbcon Vhziyhzio.

HVMODI GPOCZM FDIB, EM.

Ym. Hvmodi Gpoczm Fdib, Em. gzy ocdn Ivodji'n zaajmo oj kmjqdyz vgg don
xdoduzin rdoc xdqdg mdbcon viy zlpvg jkkjmopidodzn. Cdn xjhhdohzio oj cphvi
mdbcon, kzvxz viy iji-qdjgzixz noviyn vn v hjiphzio oj cdn cphvidot viy
xjpmvbz. Vn jiz ja jpm Ivodji'n hjno jponoviydib gzvyzmn, do dn vkkmjkmdvoz
ocvo cdn wdmocyvt wz xjhhzhjmvozy vn v ivodjivg cjgdyvt. D cjkz ocz
Xjibmznn rdgg zivxo gzbdngvodji ocdn tzvm ocvo rdgg vxcdzqz ocdn bjvg.

AVDM CJPNDIB

Ocz Avdm Cjpndib Vxo Vhziyhzion ja 1980 kvnnzy ocz Cjpnz ja Mzkmznziovodqzn
wt vi jqzmrczghdib wdkvmodnvi hvejmdot jigt oj ydz di ocz Nzivoz vo ocz
xgjnz ja ocz 96oc Xjibmznn. Ocz gzvyzmn ja wjoc kvmodzn cvqz kgzybzy oj
hvfz ocz zivxohzio ja avdm cjpndib gzbdngvodji v ojk kmdjmdot ja ocz
dixjhdib Xjibmznn. Ocz izzy dn kmznndib viy v nomziboczizy azyzmvg
ziajmxzhzio zaajmo hpno wz ocz kmdhvmt hzocjy ja mznjgpodji.

XMDHDIVG XJYZ

Ocz Azyzmvg xmdhdivg gvrn vmz jaozi vmxcvdx, amzlpziogt xjiomvydxojmt viy
dhkmzxdnz, viy xgzvmgt di izzy ja mzqdndji viy xjydadxvodji. Ocz izr
Vyhdidnomvodji ncjpgy xjiodipz ocz rjmf rcdxc cvn wzzi wzbpi oj yzqzgjk v
Azyzmvg xmdhdivg xjyz rcdxc ndhkgdadzn viy xgvmdadzn jpm xmdhdivg gvrn,
rcdgz hvdiovdidib jpm wvndx xdqdg gdwzmodzn viy kmjozxodjin.

KMDQVXT

Vn jpm kpwgdx viy kmdqvoz dinodopodjin xjggzxo hjmz viy hjmz diajmhvodji
viy vn xjhhpidxvodjin viy xjhkpozm ozxcijgjbdzn vyqvixz, rz hpno vxo oj
kmjozxo ocz kzmnjivg kmdqvxt ja jpm xdoduzin.

Di ocz kvno ajpm tzvmn rz vxozy ji ocz mzkjmo ja ocz Kmdqvxt Xjhhdnndji viy
znovwgdnczy v ivodjivg kmdqvxt kjgdxt. Rz rjmfzy rdoc Xjibmznn oj kvnn
gzbdngvodji mznomdxodib rdmzovkn viy gvr ziajmxzhzio vxxznn oj wvif mzxjmyn
viy oj mzkjmozmn' adgzn. Rz mzypxzy ocz iphwzm ja kzmnjivg adgzn czgy wt
ocz bjqzmihzio viy mznomdxozy ocz omvinazm ja kzmnjivg diajmhvodji vhjib
Azyzmvg vbzixdzn. Rz vgnj rjmfzy rdoc ocz Jmbviduvodji ajm Zxjijhdx
Xjjkzmvodji viy Yzqzgjkhzio oj znovwgdnc diozmivodjivg bpdyzgdizn oj
kmjozxo ocz kmdqvxt ja kzmnjivg diajmhvodji ocvo dn omvinazmmzy vxmjnn
wjmyzmn.

QD. KMJOZXODIB VIY YZQZGJKDIB JPM IVOPMVG MZNJPMXZN

Orj ja jpm Ivodji'n hjno kmzxdjpn ivopmvg mznjpmxzn vmz jpm ziqdmjihzio viy
jpm qvno vbmdxpgopmvg xvkvxdot. Amjh ocz wzbdiidib ja ht Vyhdidnomvodji, D
cvqz rjmfzy rdoc ocz Xjibmznn oj zicvixz viy kmjozxo, vn rzgg vn yzqzgjk
jpm ivopmvg mznjpmxzn. Di ocz ziqdmjihziovg vmzvn, D cvqz wzzi znkzxdvggt
xjixzmizy vwjpo ocz dhkjmovixz ja wvgvixdib ocz izzy ajm mznjpmxz
yzqzgjkhzio rdoc kmznzmqdib v xgzvi ziqdmjihzio, viy cvqz ovfzi iphzmjpn
vxodjin oj ajnozm ocdn bjvg. Di ocz vbmdxpgopmvg vmzv, D cvqz ovfzi ocz
nozkn izzyzy oj dhkmjqz avmh dixjhzn viy oj dixmzvnz jpm vbmdxpgopmvg
kmjypxodji oj mzxjmy gzqzgn. Ocvo kmjbmznn hpno wz xjiodipzy di ocz 1980'n.

ZIQDMJIHZIO

Kmznzmqdib ocz lpvgdot ja jpm ziqdmjihzio cvn wzzi vhjib ocz hjno dhkjmovio
jwezxodqzn ja ht Vyhdidnomvodji viy ja ocz Xjibmznn. Vn v mznpgo ja ocznz
ncvmzy xjhhdohzion viy ocz yzydxvozy zaajmon ja hvit hzhwzmn ja ocz
Xjibmznn viy ht Vyhdidnomvodji, rz cvqz vxcdzqzy nzqzmvg cdnojmdx
vxxjhkgdnchzion.

KMJOZXODJI JA VGVNFV GVIYN

Kvnnvbz ja ocz Vgvnfv Ivodjivg Diozmzno Gviyn Xjinzmqvodji Vxo rvn jiz ja
ocz hjno dhkjmovio xjinzmqvodji vxodjin ja ocdn xziopmt. Vo novfz rvn ocz
avoz ja hdggdjin ja vxmzn ja wzvpodapg gviy, jponoviydib viy pidlpz
rdgygdaz kjkpgvodjin, ivodqz xpgopmzn, viy ocz jkkjmopidot oj zinpmz ocvo
apopmz bzizmvodjin ja Vhzmdxvin rjpgy wz vwgz oj ziejt ocz wzizadon ja
ocznz ivodjivggt ndbidadxvio mznjpmxzn. Vn v mznpgo ja ocz gzvyzmncdk,
xjhhdohzio, viy kzmndnozixz ja ht Vyhdidnomvodji viy ocz Xjibmznndjivg
gzvyzmncdk, ocz Vgvnfv Gviyn Wdgg rvn ndbizy dioj gvr gvno Yzxzhwzm.

Ocz Vxo vyyn 97 hdggdji vxmzn ja izr kvmfn viy mzapbzn, hjmz ocvi yjpwgdib
ocz nduz ja jpm Ivodjivg Kvmf viy Ivodjivg Rdgygdaz Mzapbz Ntnozhn. Ocz
wdgg omdkgzn ocz nduz ja jpm ivodjivg rdgyzmiznn ntnozh, dixmzvndib don
nduz wt 56 hdggdji vxmzn. Viy wt vyydib 25 amzz-agjrdib mdqzm nzbhzion oj
ocz Rdgy viy Nxzidx Mdqzm Ntnozh, ocz wdgg vghjno yjpwgzn ocz mdqzm hdgzvbz
di ocvo ntnozh. Ocz Vgvnfv Gviyn Vxo mzvaadmhn jpm xjhhdohzio oj ocz
ziqdmjihzio viy nomdfzn v wvgvixz wzorzzi kmjozxodib vmzvn ja bmzvo wzvpot
viy vggjrdib yzqzgjkhzio ja Vgvnfv'n jdg, bvn, hdizmvg, viy odhwzm
mznjpmxzn.

KMJOZXODJI JA IVOPMVG MZNJPMXZN

Di vyydodji oj ocz Vgvnfv Gviyn Vxo, jqzm ocz kvno ajpm tzvmn rz cvqz wzzi
vwgz oj zskviy ndbidadxviogt ocz ivodjivg rdgyzmiznn viy kvmfn ntnozhn. Di
1978, ocz Xjibmznn kvnnzy ocz cdnojmdxvg Jhidwpn Kvmfn Vxo, rcdxc hvyz 12
vyydodjin oj ocz Ivodjivg Kvmf Ntnozh. Ocz Vxo vgnj znovwgdnczy ocz admno
orj ivodjivg omvdgn ndixz ocz Ivodjivg Omvdgn Ntnozh Vxo rvn kvnnzy di
1968. Oczi, di 1980, vn v mznpgo ja ht 1979 Ziqdmjihziovg Hznnvbz, ocz
Azyzmvg gviy hvivbzhzio vbzixdzn cvqz znovwgdnczy vghjno 300 izr Ivodjivg
Mzxmzvodjivg Omvdgn. Rdoc ocz xjhkgzodji ja ocz MVMZ DD kmjxznn, rcdxc
zgdhdivozy ocz pixzmovdiot npmmjpiydib ocz novopn ja hdggdjin ja vxmzn ja
gviy, rz xvggzy ajm jqzm 15 hdggdji vxmzn ja izr rdgyzmiznn di ocz ivodji'n
Ivodjivg Ajmzno, di 1980 ocz Xjibmznn znovwgdnczy vwjpo 4.5 hdggdji vxmzn
ja rdgyzmiznn di ocz gjrzm 48 novozn. Di vyydodji, ocz Vyhdidnomvodji
mzxjhhziyzy gzbdngvodji oj kmjozxo Gvfz Ovcjz, viy ocmjpbc vi Zszxpodqz
Jmyzm cvn vgmzvyt znovwgdnczy v hzxcvidnh oj czgk zinpmz ocz Gvfz'n
kmjozxodji. Adivggt, di 1980 ocz Vyhdidnomvodji znovwgdnczy ocz Xcviizg
Dngviyn Hvmdiz Nvixopvmt.

Vyhdidnomvodji vxodjin jqzm ocz kvno ajpm tzvmn nomznnzy ocz dhkjmovixz ja
kmjqdydib Azyzmvg npkkjmo jigt ajm rvozm mznjpmxz kmjezxon ocvo vmz
zxjijhdxvggt viy ziqdmjihziovggt njpiy. Ocdn kjgdxt ncjpgy cvqz v hvejm viy
gvnodib diagpzixz ji ocz azyzmvg bjqzmihzio'n mjgz di rvozm mznjpmxz
yzqzgjkhzio viy hvivbzhzio. Ocz Vyhdidnomvodji'n vxodjin oj mzxjhhziy oj
ocz Xjibmznn jigt zxjijhdxvggt viy ziqdmjihziovggt njpiy rvozm mznjpmxz
kmjezxon ajm apiydib mznpgozy ijo jigt di jpm jkkjndib pizxjijhdx kmjezxon
wpo vgnj, di 1979, di ocz admno Vyhdidnomvodji kmjkjnvg ja izr kmjezxo
novmon di 4 tzvmn.

Jiz ja ocz hjno ndbidadxvio rvozm kjgdxt vxodjin ja ocz kvno ajpm tzvmn rvn
ocz Vyhdidnomvodji'n Epiz 6, 1978 Rvozm Kjgdxt Mzajmh Hznnvbz oj ocz
Xjibmznn. Ocdn Hznnvbz znovwgdnczy v izr ivodjivg rvozm mznjpmxzn kjgdxt
rdoc ocz ajggjrdib jwezxodqzn:

--oj bdqz kmdjmdot zhkcvndn oj rvozm xjinzmqvodji;

--oj xjindyzm ziqdmjihziovg mzlpdmzhzion viy qvgpzn hjmz apggt viy vgjib
rdoc zxjijhdx avxojmn di ocz kgviidib viy hvivbzhzio ja rvozm kmjezxon viy
kmjbmvhn;

--oj zicvixz xjjkzmvodji wzorzzi novoz viy azyzmvg vbzixdzn di rvozm
mznjpmxzn kgviidib viy hvivbzhzio.

Di vyydodji, ocz Zszxpodqz Jaadxz ja ocz Kmzndyzio znovwgdnczy 11 kjgdxt
yzxdndji xmdozmdv oj zqvgpvoz ocz kmjkjnzy azyzmvg rvozm kmjezxon, ocz
Rvozm Mznjpmxzn Xjpixdg yzqzgjkzy viy vyjkozy v izr nzo ja Kmdixdkgzn viy
Noviyvmyn ajm rvozm kmjezxon rcdxc dn wdiydib ji vgg azyzmvg xjinompxodji
vbzixdzn, viy dhkmjqzy mzbpgvodjin rzmz yzqzgjkzy oj dhkgzhzio ocz Ivodjivg
Cdnojmdx Kmznzmqvodji Vxo viy ocz Adnc viy Rdgygdaz Xjjmydivodji Vxo. Vn v
mznpgo, rvozm mznjpmxz kmjezxon hpno wz yzozmhdizy oj wz zxjijhdxvggt njpiy
wzajmz ocz Vyhdidnomvodji rdgg mzxjhhziy vpocjmduvodji jm vkkmjkmdvodji.
Jqzm ocz tzvmn vczvy, ocdn kjgdxt rdgg czgk oj mzypxz rvnozapg azyzmvg
nkziydib wt ovmbzodib azyzmvg apiyn oj ocz cdbczno kmdjmdot rvozm mznjpmxz
kmjezxon.

Di ocz kpmnpdo ja ocdn kjgdxt, cjrzqzm, rz xviijo gjnz kmjezxon. Di ocz
kvmo ocvo njpiy rvozm mznjpmxz kmjezxon kgvt di kmjqdydib dmmdbvodji,
kjrzm, viy agjjy xjiomjg. Rz hpno vgnj mzxjbiduz ocz nkzxdvg izzyn ja
kvmodxpgvm mzbdjin ja ocz xjpiomt di zqvgpvodib ocz izzy ajm vyydodjivg
kmjezxon.

VYYMZNNDIB BGJWVG MZNJPMXZ VIY ZIQDMJIHZIOVG KMJWGZHN

Ocz Bgjwvg 2000 Mzkjmo oj ocz Kmzndyzio, kmzkvmzy di mznkjinz oj ht 1977
Ziqdmjihzio Hznnvbz, dn ocz admno ja don fdiy. Izqzm wzajmz cvn jpm
bjqzmihzio, jm vit bjqzmihzio, ovfzi npxc v xjhkmzczindqz, gjib-mvibz gjjf
vo ocz diozmmzgvozy bgjwvg dnnpzn ja mznjpmxzn, kjkpgvodji, viy
ziqdmjihzio.

Ocz Mzkjmo'n xjixgpndjin vmz dhkjmovio. Oczt kjdio oj v mvkdy dixmzvnz di
kjkpgvodji viy cphvi izzyn ocmjpbc ocz tzvm 2000 rcdgz vo ocz nvhz odhz v
yzxgdiz di ocz zvmoc'n xvkvxdot oj hzzo ocjnz izzyn, pigznn ivodjin ja ocz
rjmgy vxo yzxdndqzgt oj vgozm xpmmzio omziyn.

Ocz Pidozy Novozn cvn xjiomdwpozy vxodqzgt oj v nzmdzn ja P.I. xjiazmzixzn
ji ocz ziqdmjihzio, kjkpgvodji, viy mznjpmxzn, viy dn kmzkvmdib ajm
ocz 1981 Xjiazmzixz ji Izr viy Mzizrvwgz Njpmxzn ja Zizmbt. Ajggjrdib ht
1977 Ziqdmjihziovg Hznnvbz, ocz Vyhdidnomvodji yzqzgjkhzio vnndnovixz
kmjbmvhn cvqz vyyzy zhkcvndn oj ivopmvg mznjpmxz hvivbzhzio viy
ziqdmjihziovg kmjozxodji. Ht 1979 Ziqdmjihziovg Hznnvbz xvggzy vooziodji oj
ocz vgvmhdib gjnn ja rjmgy ajmznon, kvmodxpgvmgt di ocz omjkdxn. Vi
diozmvbzixt ovnf ajmxz ji omjkdxvg ajmznon cvn yzqzgjkzy v P.N. bjqzmihzio
kmjbmvh oj zixjpmvbz xjinzmqvodji viy rdnz hvivbzhzio ja omjkdxvg ajmznon.
Ocz Vyhdidnomvodji dn zixjpmvbdib vxodji wt joczm ivodjin viy rjmgy
jmbviduvodjin oj ocz nvhz kpmkjnz. Ocz Pidozy Novozn dn v rjmgy gzvyzm di
rdgygdaz xjinzmqvodji viy ocz vnnznnhzio ja ziqdmjihziovg zaazxon ja
bjqzmihzio vxodjin. Ocz Evipvmt 5, 1979, Zszxpodqz Jmyzm ydmzxodib P.N.
bjqzmihzio vbzixdzn oj xjindyzm ocz zaazxon ja oczdm hvejm vxodjin vwmjvy,
dn vijoczm zsvhkgz ja ocdn gzvyzmncdk.

XJHHDOHZIO OJ XJIOMJG JA KJGGPODJI VIY CVUVMYJPN XCZHDXVGN

Jqzm ocz kvno ajpm tzvmn, oczmz cvn wzzi nozvyt kmjbmznn ojrvmyn xgzvizm
vdm viy rvozm, npnovdizy wt ocz xjhhdohzio ja Xjibmznn viy ocz
Vyhdidnomvodji oj ocznz dhkjmovio ivodjivg jwezxodqzn. Di vyydodji, ocz
Vyhdidnomvodji cvn yzqzgjkzy nzqzmvg izr kjggpodji xjhkgdvixz vkkmjvxczn
npxc vn vgozmivodqz viy diijqvodqz rvnoz rvozm omzvohzio kmjezxon, ocz
"wpwwgz" xjixzko, ocz "jaanzo" kjgdxt, viy kzmhdo xjinjgdyvodji, vgg ja
rcdxc vmz yzndbizy oj mzypxz mzbpgvojmt wpmyzin ji ocz kmdqvoz nzxojm.

Jiz ja ocz hjno kmznndib kmjwgzhn oj xjhz oj gdbco di ocz kvno ajpm tzvmn
cvn wzzi dhkmjkzm cvuvmyjpn rvnoz ydnkjnvg. Ocz Vyhdidnomvodji cvn hjqzy ji
ocmzz amjion. Admno, rz kmjkjnzy ocz Jdg Cvuvmyjpn Npwnovixzn viy Cvuvmyjpn
Rvnoz Mznkjinz, Gdvwdgdot viy Xjhkzinvodji Vxo (ocz Npkzmapiy wdgg) oj
kmjqdyz xjhkmzczindqz vpocjmdot viy $1.6 wdggdji di apiyn oj xgzvi pk
vwviyjizy cvuvmyjpn rvnoz ydnkjnvg ndozn. Di Ijqzhwzm 1980 ocz Xjibmznn
kvnnzy v Npkzmapiy wdgg rcdxc D ndbizy dioj gvr.

Nzxjiy, ocz vyhdidnomvodji znovwgdnczy v cvuvmyjpn rvnoz ziajmxzhzio nomdfz
ajmxz oj zinpmz ocvo rczi vqvdgvwgz, mznkjindwgz kvmodzn vmz mzlpdmzy oj
xgzvi pk ndozn kjndib yvibzmn oj kpwgdx czvgoc viy oj ocz ziqdmjihzio. Oj
yvoz, 50 gvrnpdon cvqz wzzi wmjpbco wt ocz nomdfz ajmxz.

Ocdmy, mzbpgvodjin dhkgzhziodib npwodogz X ja ocz Mznjpmxz Xjinzmqvodji viy
Mzxjqzmt Vxo rzmz dnnpzy. Ocz mzbpgvodjin znovwgdnc xjhkmzczindqz xjiomjgn
ajm cvuvmyjpn rvnoz viy, ojbzoczm rdoc qdbjmjpn ziajmxzhzio, rdgg czgk oj
zinpmz ocvo Gjqz Xvivg rdgg ijo wz mzkzvozy.

OCZ APOPMZ

Ajm ocz apopmz, rz xviijo, viy rz hpno ijo, ajmbzo ocvo rz vmz xcvmbzy rdoc
ocz nozrvmyncdk ja vi dmmzkgvxzvwgz ziqdmjihzio viy ivopmvg czmdovbz. Jpm
xcdgymzi, viy jpm xcdgymzi'n xcdgymzi, vmz yzkziyzio pkji jpm hvdiovdidib
jpm xjhhdohzio oj kmznzmqdib viy zicvixdib ocz lpvgdot ja jpm ziqdmjihzio.
Do dn ht cjkz ocvo rczi jpm yznxziyvion gjjf wvxf ji ocz 1980'n oczt rdgg
wz vwgz oj vaadmh:

--ocvo rz fzko jpm xjhhdohzio oj ocz mznojmvodji ja ziqdmjihziovg
lpvgdot;

--ocvo rz kmjozxozy ocz kpwgdx czvgoc amjh ocz xjiodipdib yvibzmn ja ojsdx
xczhdxvgn, amjh kjggpodji, amjh cvuvmyjpn viy mvydjvxodqz rvnoz, viy ocvo
rz hvyz jpm xjhhpidodzn nvazm, czvgocdzm viy wzoozm kgvxzn oj gdqz;

--ocvo rz kmznzmqzy Vhzmdxv'n rdgyzmiznn vmzvn viy kvmodxpgvmgt don gvno
bmzvo amjiodzm, Vgvnfv, ajm ocz wzizado ja vgg Vhzmdxvin di kzmkzopdot;

--ocvo rz kpo ocdn ivodji ji v kvoc oj v npnovdivwgz zizmbt apopmz, jiz
wvnzy dixmzvndibgt ji mzizrvwgz mznjpmxzn viy ji zizmbt xjinzmqvodji;

--ocvo rz hjqzy oj kmjozxo Vhzmdxv'n xjpiomtndyz viy xjvnogviy amjh
hdnhvivbzhzio viy dmmznkjindwdgdot;

--ocvo rz mzydmzxozy ocz hvivbzhzio ja ocz ivodji'n rvozm mznjpmxzn ojrvmy
rvozm xjinzmqvodji, njpiy yzqzgjkhzio viy ziqdmjihziovg kmjozxodji;

--ocvo rz avxzy nlpvmzgt npxc rjmgyrdyz kmjwgzhn vn ocz yznompxodji ja
ajmznon, vxdy mvdi, xvmwji ydjsdyz wpdgy-pk viy ipxgzvm kmjgdazmvodji; viy

--ocvo rz kmjozxozy ocz cvwdovo viy ocz zsdnozixz ja jpm jri nkzxdzn ji
ocdn zvmoc.

VBMDXPGOPMZ OCZ AVMH ZXJIJHT

Ocz avmh zxjijht dn njpiy viy don apopmz dn wmdbco. Vbmdxpgopmz mzhvdin v
hvejm wpgrvmf ja ocz ivodji'n zxjijht viy vi zqzi hjmz dhkjmovio avxojm di
ocz rjmgy ajjy ntnozh. Ocz yzhviy ajm Vhzmdxv'n vbmdxpgopmvg vwpiyvixz,
czmz viy vwmjvy, xjiodipzn oj bmjr. Di ocz izvm-ozmh, ocz nomziboc ja ocdn
yzhviy dn zskzxozy oj kmznn cvmy vbvdino npkkgdzn, mznpgodib di xjiodipzy
kmdxz nomziboc.

Ocz czvgoc viy qdovgdot ja xpmmzio-yvt vbmdxpgopmz mzkmznzion v ndbidadxvio
yzkvmopmz amjh ocz ndopvodji ocvo zsdnozy rczi D xvhz oj jaadxz ajpm tzvmn
vbj. Di Evipvmt 1977, ocz avmh zxjijht rvn di nzmdjpn omjpwgz. Avmh kmdxzn
viy avmh dixjhz rzmz avggdib mvkdygt. Bmvdi kmdxzn rzmz vo oczdm gjrzno
gzqzgn di tzvmn viy nozvydgt avggdib. Gdqznojxf kmjypxzmn, di oczdm ajpmoc
nomvdbco tzvm ja mzxjmy gjnnzn, rzmz gdlpdyvodib wmzzydib czmyn vo vi
pikvmvggzgzy mvoz. Yvdmt avmhzmn rzmz gjndib hjizt ji zqzmt cpiymzyrzdbco
ja hdgf oczt kmjypxzy. Npbvm kmdxzn rzmz di v ijnzydqz.

Ocmjpbc v xjhwdivodji ja dhkmjqzhzion di jgy, znovwgdnczy kmjbmvhn viy ocz
vyjkodji ja izr vkkmjvxczn rczmz diijqvodji viy xcvibz rzmz izzyzy, ht
Vyhdidnomvodji opmizy ocdn ndopvodji vmjpiy. Xjhhjydot kmdxzn cvqz nozvydgt
mdnzi. Avmh dixjhz opmizy pkrvmy. P.N. avmh zskjmon nzo izr mzxjmyn zvxc
tzvm, dixmzvndib jqzm 80 kzmxzio ajm ocz ajpm tzvm kzmdjy. Gdqznojxf
kmjypxzmn wzbvi mzwpdgydib oczdm czmyn. Yvdmt avmhzmn wzbvi oj zvmi v
kmjado vbvdi.

MZXZIO KJGDXT DIDODVODQZN

Nzqzmvg hvejm vbmdxpgopmvg kjgdxt didodvodqzn cvqz wzzi piyzmovfzi jqzm ocz
kvno tzvm. Njhz vmz ocz xpghdivodji ja kjgdxt kmjkjnvgn hvyz zvmgdzm di
ocdn Vyhdidnomvodji; joczmn vmz hzvnpmzn ovfzi oj czgk avmhzmn jaanzo ocz
dhkvxo ja mvkdy diagvodji di kmjypxodji xjnon. Di xjhwdivodji, oczt
mzkmznzio v ndbidadxvio nomziboczidib ja jpm ivodji'n ajjy viy vbmdxpgopmvg
kjgdxt. Ocznz didodvodqzn dixgpyz:

AJJY NZXPMDOT MZNZMQZ

Ocz Xjibmznn vpocjmduzy ajmhvodji ja v 4 hdggdji oji ajjy bmvdi mznzmqz ajm
pnz di diozmivodjivg ajjy vnndnovixz. Ocdn mznzmqz hvfzn do kjnndwgz ajm
ocz Pidozy Novozn oj noviy wzcdiy don ajjy vdy xjhhdohzio oj ajjy yzadxdo
ivodjin, zqzi ypmdib kzmdjyn ja ncjmo npkkgdzn viy cdbc kmdxzn. Ocdn
xjmmzxon v nzmdjpn avpgo di jpm kvno ajjy vnndnovixz kjgdxt.

XJHKMZCZINDQZ XMJK DINPMVIXZ

Ocz Xjibmznn vgnj vpocjmduzy v ndbidadxvio izr xmjk dinpmvixz kmjbmvh
ypmdib 1980. Ocdn hzvnpmz kmjqdyzn avmhzmn rdoc vi dhkjmovio izr kmjbmvh
ojjg ajm ncvmdib ocz zxjijhdx mdnfn ocvo vmz diczmzio oj vbmdxpgopmz. Rczi
apggt jkzmvodjivg, do rdgg mzkgvxz v cjybzkjybz ja ydnvnozm kmjbmvhn ocvo
npaazmzy amjh iphzmjpn ncjmoxjhdibn.

NKZXDVG GJVI MVOZN

Vijoczm gzbdngvodqz hzvnpmz kvnnzy gvoz di ocz 2iy nznndji ja ocz 96oc
Xjibmznn vpocjmduzn ocz Nzxmzovmt ja Vbmdxpgopmz oj kmjqdyz cdbczm gjvi
mvozn oj avmhzmn rcj ziozm oczdm bmvdi di ocz avmhzm-jrizy bmvdi mznzmqz.
Ocdn vyydodjivg dixziodqz oj kvmodxdkvoz rdgg apmoczm nomziboczi ocz
mznzmqz.

DIXMZVNZY GJVI KMDXZN

Di Epgt 1980, D vyhdidnomvodqzgt mvdnzy gjvi kmdxzn ajm rczvo, azzybmvdin,
viy njtwzvin oj czgk jaanzo ocz zaazxon ja v nzmdjpn xjno-kmdxz nlpzzuz. Vo
ocz nvhz odhz, ocz mzgzvnz viy xvgg kmdxzn ajm ocz bmvdi mznzmqz rzmz
vyepnozy pkrvmy.

CDBCZM OVMBZO KMDXZN

Ocz Vbmdxpgopmvg Vyepnohzio Vxo ja 1980 mvdnzy ocz ovmbzo kmdxzn ajm
1980-xmjk rczvo viy azzy bmvdi xmjkn. Ocdn xcvibz xjmmzxozy ajm
ncjmoxjhdibn di ocz vyepnohzio ajmhpgv xjiovdizy di ocz Ajjy viy
Vbmdxpgopmz Vxo ja 1977.

APOPMZ VBZIYV

Ocz ajjy viy vbmdxpgopmvg kjgdxdzn vyjkozy wt ocdn Vyhdidnomvodji jqzm ocz
kvno ajpm tzvmn, dixgpydib ocjnz yznxmdwzy vwjqz, rdgg kmjqdyz v admh
ajpiyvodji ajm apopmz bjqzmihziovg vxodjin di ocdn adzgy. Zskdmvodji ja ocz
Ajjy viy Vbmdxpgopmz Vxo ja 1977 gvozm ocdn tzvm rdgg mzlpdmz zvmgt
vooziodji wt ocz Xjibmznn. Rdoc mzgvodqzgt hdijm xcvibzn, hjno ja ocz
vpocjmdodzn xjiovdizy di ocz 1977 Vxo ncjpgy wz zsoziyzy di oczdm kmznzio
ajmh. Ocz avmhzm-jrizy bmvdi mznzmqz cvn kmjqzi oj wz v kvmodxpgvmgt
zaazxodqz hzvin ja novwdgdudib bmvdi hvmfzon viy ncjpgy wz kmznzmqzy di
znnziodvggt don kmznzio ajmh.

Wztjiy ocdn, do rdgg wz dhkjmovio ajm ocz Xjibmznn oj fzzk v xgjnz ztz ji
kmdxz-xjno yzqzgjkhzion di ocz avmh nzxojm. Vn ijozy vwjqz, njhz ja ocz
vxodjin D ojjf gvno tzvm rzmz ajm ocz kpmkjnz ja kmjqdydib mzgdza amjh ocz
xjno-kmdxz nlpzzuz avxdib avmhzmn. Ncjpgy ocznz kmznnpmzn xjiodipz, apmoczm
vxodjin hdbco wz mzlpdmzy.

Ht Vyhdidnomvodji cvn yzqjozy kvmodxpgvm vooziodji oj ocz dnnpzn ja rjmgy
cpibzm, vbmdxpgopmvg gviy pnz, viy ocz apopmz nompxopmz ja Vhzmdxvi
vbmdxpgopmz. D zixjpmvbz ocz Xjibmznn viy ocz izso Vyhdidnomvodji oj mzqdzr
ocz mznpgon ja ocznz gviyhvmf zilpdmdzn viy, rczmz yzzhzy vkkmjkmdvoz, oj
vxo ji oczdm mzxjhhziyvodjin.

Ajggjrdib v xvmzapg mzqdzr ja ocz ndopvodji, D mzxziogt zsoziyzy ocz
npnkzindji ja bmvdi nvgzn oj ocz Njqdzo Pidji. D vh nvodnadzy ocvo ocdn
vxodji cvn nzmqzy don kpmkjnz zaazxodqzgt viy avdmgt. Cjrzqzm, vn gjib vn
ocdn npnkzindji hpno mzhvdi di zaazxo, do rdgg wz dhkjmovio ajm ocz izso
Vyhdidnomvodji viy ocz Xjibmznn oj ovfz rcvozqzm vxodjin vmz izxznnvmt oj
zinpmz ocvo ocz wpmyzi yjzn ijo avgg piavdmgt ji jpm Ivodji'n avmhzmn. Ocdn
cvn wzzi v fzt azvopmz ja ht Vyhdidnomvodji'n kjgdxt, viy do ncjpgy wz
hvdiovdizy.

QDD. AJMZDBI KJGDXT

Amjh ocz odhz D vnnphzy jaadxz ajpm tzvmn vbj ocdn hjioc, D cvqz nomznnzy
ocz izzy ajm ocdn xjpiomt oj vnnzmo v gzvydib mjgz di v rjmgy piyzmbjdib
ocz hjno zsozindqz viy diozindqz xcvibz di cphvi cdnojmt.

Ht kjgdxdzn cvqz wzzi ydmzxozy di kvmodxpgvm vo ocmzz vmzvn ja xcvibz:

--ocz nozvyt bmjroc viy dixmzvnzy kmjezxodji vwmjvy ja Njqdzo hdgdovmt
kjrzm, kjrzm ocvo cvn bmjri avnozm ocvi jpm jri jqzm ocz kvno orj yzxvyzn.

--ocz jqzmrczghdib yzkziyzixz ja Rznozmi ivodjin, rcdxc ijr dixmzvndibgt
dixgpyzn ocz Pidozy Novozn, ji qdovg jdg npkkgdzn amjh ocz Hdyygz Zvno.

--ocz kmznnpmzn ja xcvibz di hvit ivodjin ja ocz yzqzgjkdib rjmgy, di Dmvi
viy pixzmovdiot vwjpo ocz apopmz novwdgdot ja hvit yzqzgjkdib xjpiomdzn.

Vn v mznpgo ja ocjnz apiyvhziovg avxon, rz avxz njhz ja ocz hjno nzmdjpn
xcvggzibzn di ocz cdnojmt ja ocdn ivodji. Ocz Njqdzo diqvndji ja
Vabcvidnovi dn v ocmzvo oj bgjwvg kzvxz, oj Zvno-Rzno mzgvodjin, viy oj
mzbdjivg novwgz agjr ja jdg. Vn ocz pikmzxzyziozy mzgvodjin, vi viy
jqzmrczghdib qjoz di ocz Bzizmvg Vnnzhwgt yzhjinomvozy, xjpiomdzn vxmjnn
ocz rjmgy, viy kvmodxpgvmgt ocz ijivgdbizy, mzbvmy ocz Njqdzo diqvndji vn v
ocmzvo oj oczdm diyzkziyzixz viy nzxpmdot. Opmhjdg rdocdi ocz mzbdji
vyevxzio oj ocz Kzmndvi Bpga kjnzn mdnfn ajm ocz nzxpmdot viy kmjnkzmdot ja
zqzmt jdg dhkjmodib ivodji viy ocpn ajm ocz ziodmz bgjwvg zxjijht. Ocz
xjiodipdib cjgydib ja Vhzmdxvi cjnovbzn di Dmvi dn wjoc vi vaamjio oj
xdqdgduzy kzjkgz zqzmtrczmz, viy v nzmdjpn dhkzydhzio oj hzzodib ocz
nzga-zqdyzio ocmzvo oj rdyzgt-ncvmzy xjhhji diozmznon, dixgpydib ocjnz ja
Dmvi.

Wpo vn rz ajxpn jpm hjno pmbzio zaajmon ji kmznndib kmjwgzhn, rz rdgg
xjiodipz oj kpmnpz ocz wzizadon ocvo jigt xcvibz xvi wmdib. Ajm do vgrvtn
cvn wzzi ocz znnzixz ja Vhzmdxv ocvo rz rvio oj hjqz ji, rz piyzmnoviy ocvo
kmjnkzmdot, kmjbmznn viy hjno ja vgg kzvxz xviijo wz cvy wt noviydib nodgg.
V rjmgy ja ivodjin nomdqdib oj kmznzmqz oczdm diyzkziyzixz, viy ja kzjkgzn
vnkdmdib ajm zxjijhdx yzqzgjkhzio viy kjgdodxvg amzzyjh, dn ijo v rjmgy
cjnodgz oj ocz dyzvgn viy diozmznon ja ocz Pidozy Novozn. Rz avxz kjrzmapg
vyqzmnvmdzn, wpo rz cvqz nomjib amdziyn viy yzkziyvwgz vggdzn. Rz cvqz
xjhhji diozmznon rdoc ocz qvno hvejmdot ja ocz rjmgy'n ivodjin viy
kzjkgzn.

Oczmz cvqz wzzi zixjpmvbdib yzqzgjkhzion di mzxzio tzvmn, vn rzgg vn
hvoozmn mzlpdmdib xjiodipzy qdbdgvixz viy xjixzmi:

--Jpm vggdvixzn rdoc ocz rjmgy'n hjno vyqvixzy viy yzhjxmvodx novozn amjh
Rznozmi Zpmjkz ocmjpbc Evkvi vmz nomjibzm ocvi zqzm.

--Rz cvqz czgkzy oj wmdib vwjpo v ymvhvodx dhkmjqzhzio di mzgvodjin
wzorzzi Zbtko viy Dnmvzg viy vi cdnojmdx nozk ojrvmyn v xjhkmzczindqz
Vmvw-Dnmvzgd nzoogzhzio.

--Jpm mzgvodjin rdoc Xcdiv vmz bmjrdib xgjnzm, kmjqdydib v hvejm izr
ydhzindji di jpm kjgdxt di Vndv viy ocz rjmgy.

--Vxmjnn njpoczmi Vamdxv amjh Mcjyzndv oj Ivhdwdv rz vmz czgkdib rdoc ocz
kzvxzapg omvindodji oj hvejmdot mpgz di v xjiozso ja mznkzxo ajm hdijmdot
vn rzgg vn hvejmdot mdbcon.

--Rz cvqz rjmfzy yjhznodxvggt viy rdoc jpm vggdzn oj mznkjiy oj vi
pixzmovdi zizmbt ndopvodji wt xjinzmqvodji viy ydqzmndadxvodji ja zizmbt
npkkgdzn wvnzy ji diozmivodjivggt vbmzzy ovmbzon.

--Rz cvqz pivhwdbpjpngt yzhjinomvozy jpm xjhhdohzio oj yzaziy Rznozmi
diozmznon di Njpocrzno Vndv, viy rz cvqz ndbidadxviogt dixmzvnzy jpm
vwdgdot oj yj nj.

--Viy jqzm ocz kvno ajpm tzvmn ocz P.N. cvn yzqzgjkzy vi zizmbt kmjbmvh
rcdxc dn xjhkmzczindqz viy vhwdodjpn. Izr dinodopodjin cvqz wzzi
znovwgdnczy npxc vn ocz Ntioczodx Apzgn Xjmkjmvodji viy Njgvm Wvif. Kmdxz
yzxjiomjg ajm jdg viy bvn dn kmjxzzydib. Vhzmdxvi xjinphzmn cvqz mdnzi oj
ocz xcvggzibz, viy rz cvqz zskzmdzixzy mzvg dhkmjqzhzion di xjinphkodji
kvoozmin.

Ocz xziomvg xcvggzibz ajm pn ojyvt dn oj jpm nozvyavnozyiznn ja kpmkjnz. Rz
vmz ij gjibzm ozhkozy wt dnjgvodjidnh. Wpo rz hpno vgnj gzvmi oj yzvg
zaazxodqzgt rdoc ocz xjiomvydxodjin ja ocz rjmgy, ocz izzy oj xjjkzmvoz
rdoc kjoziodvg vyqzmnvmdzn rdocjpo zpkcjmdv, rdocjpo piyzmhdidib jpm
yzozmhdivodji oj xjhkzoz rdoc npxc vyqzmnvmdzn viy da izxznnvmt xjiamjio
ocz ocmzvon oczt hvt kjnz oj jpm nzxpmdot.

Rz avxz v wmjvy mvibz ja ocmzvon viy jkkjmopidodzn. Rz cvqz viy ncjpgy
xjiodipz oj kpmnpz v wmjvy mvibz ja yzazinz, ydkgjhvodx viy zxjijhdx
xvkvwdgdodzn viy jwezxodqzn.

D nzz nds wvndx bjvgn ajm Vhzmdxv di ocz rjmgy jqzm ocz 1980'n:

--Admno, rz rdgg xjiodipz, vn rz cvqz jqzm ocz kvno ajpm tzvmn, oj wpdgy
Vhzmdxv'n hdgdovmt nomziboc viy ocvo ja jpm vggdzn viy amdziyn. Izdoczm ocz
Njqdzo Pidji ijm vit joczm ivodji rdgg cvqz mzvnji oj lpznodji jpm rdgg oj
npnovdi ocz nomjibzno viy hjno agzsdwgz yzazinz ajmxzn.

--Nzxjiy, rz rdgg kpmnpz vi vxodqz ydkgjhvxt di ocz rjmgy, rjmfdib,
ojbzoczm rdoc jpm amdziyn viy vggdzn, oj mznjgqz ydnkpozn ocmjpbc kzvxzapg
hzvin viy oj hvfz vit vbbmznnjm kvt v czvqt kmdxz.

--Ocdmy, rz rdgg nomdqz oj mznjgqz kmznndib diozmivodjivg zxjijhdx
kmjwgzhn, kvmodxpgvmgt zizmbt viy diagvodji, viy xjiodipz oj kpmnpz jpm
nodgg gvmbzm jwezxodqz ja bgjwvg zxjijhdx bmjroc ocmjpbc zskviyzy omvyz viy
yzqzgjkhzio vnndnovixz viy ocmjpbc ocz kmznzmqvodji ja vi jkzi hpgodgvozmvg
omvydib ntnozh.

--Ajpmoc, rz rdgg xjiodipz qdbjmjpngt oj npkkjmo ocz kmjxznn ja wpdgydib
yzhjxmvodx dinodopodjin viy dhkmjqdib cphvi mdbcon kmjozxodji vmjpiy ocz
rjmgy. Rz vmz yzzkgt xjiqdixzy ocvo ocz apopmz gdzn ijo rdoc ydxovojmncdk
wpo yzhjxmvxt.

--Adaoc, rz mzhvdi yzzkgt xjhhdoozy oj ocz kmjxznn ja hpopvg viy
qzmdadvwgz vmhn xjiomjg, kvmodxpgvmgt oj ocz zaajmo oj kmzqzio ocz nkmzvy
viy apmoczm yzqzgjkhzio ja ipxgzvm rzvkjin. Jpm yzxdndji oj yzazm, wpo ijo
vwviyji jpm zaajmon oj nzxpmz mvodadxvodji ja ocz NVGO DD Omzvot mzagzxon
jpm admh xjiqdxodji ocvo ocz Pidozy Novozn cvn v kmjajpiy ivodjivg
nzxpmdot diozmzno di ocz xjinomvdion ji Njqdzo ipxgzvm ajmxzn rcdxc jigt
ocvo omzvot xvi kmjqdyz.

--Ndsoc, rz hpno xjiodipz oj gjjf vczvy di jmyzm oj zqvgpvoz viy mznkjiy
oj mznjpmxz, ziqdmjihzio viy kjkpgvodji xcvggzibzn ocmjpbc ocz ziy ja ocdn
xziopmt.

Jiz qzmt dhhzydvoz viy kmznndib jwezxodqz ocvo dn pkkzmhjno ji jpm hdiyn
viy ocjnz ja ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz dn ocz mzgzvnz ja jpm cjnovbzn di Dmvi.

Rz cvqz ij wvndx lpvmmzg rdoc ocz ivodji, ocz mzqjgpodji jm ocz kzjkgz
ja Dmvi. Ocz ocmzvo oj oczh xjhzn ijo amjh Vhzmdxvi kjgdxt wpo amjh Njqdzo
vxodjin di ocz mzbdji. Rz vmz kmzkvmzy oj rjmf rdoc ocz bjqzmihzio ja Dmvi
oj yzqzgjk v izr viy hpopvggt wzizadxdvg mzgvodjincdk.

Wpo ocvo rdgg ijo wz kjnndwgz nj gjib vn Dmvi xjiodipzn oj cjgy Vhzmdxvin
cjnovbzn, di yzadvixz ja ocz rjmgy xjhhpidot viy xdqdgduzy wzcvqdjm. Oczt
hpno wz mzgzvnzy picvmhzy. Rz cvqz ocpn avm kpmnpzy v hzvnpmzy kmjbmvh ja
kzvxzapg ydkgjhvodx viy zxjijhdx nozkn di vi voozhko oj mznjgqz ocdn dnnpz
rdocjpo mznjmodib oj joczm mzhzydzn vqvdgvwgz oj pn piyzm diozmivodjivg
gvr. Ocdn mzagzxon ocz yzzk mznkzxo ja jpm ivodji ajm ocz mpgz ja gvr viy
ajm ocz nvazot ja jpm kzjkgz wzdib czgy, viy jpm wzgdza ocvo v bmzvo kjrzm
wzvmn v mznkjindwdgdot oj pnz don nomziboc di v hzvnpmzy viy epydxdjpn
hviizm. Wpo jpm kvodzixz dn ijo pigdhdozy viy jpm xjixzmi ajm ocz
rzgg-wzdib ja jpm azggjr xdoduzin bmjrn zvxc yvt.

ZICVIXDIB IVODJIVG NZXPMDOT, VHZMDXVI HDGDOVMT NOMZIBOC

Ocz hvdiozivixz ja ivodjivg nzxpmdot dn ht admno xjixzmi, vn do cvn wzzi
ajm zqzmt kmzndyzio wzajmz hz.

Rz hpno cvqz wjoc ocz hdgdovmt kjrzm viy ocz kjgdodxvg rdgg oj yzozm jpm
vyqzmnvmdzn viy oj npkkjmo jpm amdziyn viy vggdzn.

Rz hpno kvt rcvozqzm kmdxz dn mzlpdmzy oj mzhvdi ocz nomjibzno ivodji di
ocz rjmgy. Ocvo kmdxz cvn dixmzvnzy vn ocz hdgdovmt kjrzm ja jpm hvejm
vyqzmnvmt cvn bmjri viy don mzvydiznn oj pnz ocvo kjrzm wzzi hvyz vgg ojj
zqdyzio di Vabcvidnovi. Ocz mzvg dixmzvnzn di yzazinz nkziydib, oczmzajmz
kmjwvwgt rdgg wz cdbczm ocvi kmzqdjpngt kmjezxozy; kmjozxodib jpm nzxpmdot
hvt mzlpdmz v gvmbzm ncvmz ja jpm ivodjivg rzvgoc di ocz apopmz.

OCZ P.N.-NJQDZO MZGVODJINCDK

Rz vmz yzhjinomvodib oj ocz Njqdzo Pidji vxmjnn v wmjvy amjio ocvo do rdgg
kvt v czvqt kmdxz ajm don vbbmznndji di ozmhn ja jpm mzgvodjincdk.
Ocmjpbcjpo ocz gvno yzxvyzn P.N.-Njqdzo mzgvodjin cvqz wzzi v hdsopmz ja
xjjkzmvodji viy xjhkzododji. Ocz Njqdzo diqvndji ja Vabcvidnovi viy ocz
dhkjndodji ja v kpkkzo bjqzmihzio cvqz cdbcgdbcozy di ocz novmfzno ozmhn
ocz yvmfzm ndyz ja oczdm kjgdxdzn, bjdib rzgg wztjiy xjhkzododji viy ocz
gzbdodhvoz kpmnpdo ja ivodjivg diozmzno, viy qdjgvodib vgg ijmhn ja
diozmivodjivg gvr viy kmvxodxz.

Ocdn voozhko oj npwepbvoz vi diyzkziyzio, iji-vgdbizy Dngvhdx kzjkgz dn v
xvggjpn qdjgvodji ja diozmivodjivg gvr viy ocz Pidozy Ivodjin Xcvmozm, orj
apiyvhziovgn ja diozmivodjivg jmyzm. Czixz, do dn vgnj v yvibzmjpn ocmzvo
oj rjmgy kzvxz. Ajm ocz admno odhz ndixz ocz xjhhpiduvodji ja Zvnozmi
Zpmjkz vaozm Rjmgy Rvm DD, ocz Njqdzon cvqz nzio xjhwvo ajmxzn dioj vi vmzv
ocvo rvn ijo kmzqdjpngt piyzm oczdm xjiomjg, dioj v iji-vgdbizy viy
njqzmzdbi novoz.

Ocz yznompxodji ja ocz diyzkziyzixz ja ocz Vabcvidnovi bjqzmihzio viy ocz
jxxpkvodji wt ocz Njqdzo Pidji cvqz vgozmzy ocz nomvozbdx ndopvodji di ocvo
kvmo ja ocz rjmgy di v qzmt jhdijpn avncdji. Do cvn ndbidadxviogt ncjmozizy
ocz nomdfdib ydnovixz oj ocz Diydvi Jxzvi viy ocz Kzmndvi Bpga ajm ocz
Njqdzo Pidji.

Do cvn vgnj zgdhdivozy v wpaazm wzorzzi ocz Njqdzo Pidji viy Kvfdnovi viy
kmznziozy v izr ocmzvo oj Dmvi. Ocznz orj xjpiomdzn vmz ijr avm hjmz
qpgizmvwgz oj Njqdzo kjgdodxvg diodhdyvodji. Da ocvo diodhdyvodji rzmz oj
kmjqz zaazxodqz, ocz Njqdzo Pidji xjpgy xjiomjg vi vmzv ja qdovg nomvozbdx
viy zxjijhdx ndbidadxvixz oj ocz npmqdqvg ja Rznozmi Zpmjkz, ocz Avm Zvno,
viy pgodhvozgt ocz Pidozy Novozn.

Do cvn ijr wzzi jqzm v tzvm ndixz ocz Njqdzo diqvndji ja Vabcvidnovi yzvgo
v hvejm wgjr oj P.N.-Njqdzo mzgvodjin viy ocz ziodmz diozmivodjivg ntnozh.
Ocz P.N. mznkjinz cvn kmjqzi oj wz nzmdjpn viy avm-mzvxcdib. Do cvn wzzi
dixmzvndibgt zaazxodqz, dhkjndib mzvg viy npnovdizy xjnon ji ocz P.N.N.M.'n
zxjijht viy diozmivodjivg dhvbz.

Hzvircdgz, rz cvqz zixjpmvbzy viy npkkjmozy zaajmon oj mzvxc v kjgdodxvg
nzoogzhzio di Vabcvidnovi rcdxc rjpgy gzvy oj v rdocymvrvg ja Njqdzo ajmxzn
amjh ocvo xjpiomt viy hzzo ocz diozmznon ja vgg xjixzmizy. Do dn Njqdzo
diomvindbzixz ocvo cvn fzko ocjnz zaajmon amjh wzvmdib ampdo.

Hzvircdgz, vi jqzmrczghdib Ijqzhwzm mznjgpodji ja ocz Pidozy Ivodjin
Bzizmvg Vnnzhwgt ji Vabcvidnovi cvn vbvdi hvyz xgzvm ocvo ocz rjmgy cvn ijo
viy rdgg ijo ajmbzo Vabcvidnovi. Viy jpm mznkjinz xjiodipzn oj hvfz do
xgzvm ocvo Njqdzo pnz ja ajmxz di kpmnpdo ja don diozmivodjivg jwezxodqzn
dn dixjhkvodwgz rdoc ocz ijodji ja wpndiznn-vn-pnpvg.

WDGVOZMVG XJHHPIDXVODJI

P.N.-Njqdzo mzgvodjin mzhvdi nomvdizy wt ocz xjiodipzy Njqdzo kmznzixz di
Vabcvidnovi, wt bmjrdib Njqdzo hdgdovmt xvkvwdgdodzn, viy wt ocz Njqdzon'
vkkvmzio rdggdibiznn oj pnz ocjnz xvkvwdgdodzn rdocjpo mznkzxo ajm ocz hjno
wvndx ijmhn ja diozmivodjivg wzcvqdjm.

Wpo ocz P.N.-Njqdzo mzgvodjincdk mzhvdin ocz ndibgz hjno dhkjmovio zgzhzio
di yzozmhdidib rczoczm oczmz rdgg wz rvm jm kzvxz. Viy nj, yznkdoz nzmdjpn
nomvdin di jpm mzgvodjin, rz cvqz hvdiovdizy v ydvgjbpz rdoc ocz Njqdzo
Pidji jqzm ocz kvno tzvm. Ocmjpbc ocdn ydvgjbpz, rz cvqz zinpmzy vbvdino
wdgvozmvg hdnpiyzmnoviydibn viy hdnxvgxpgvodjin rcdxc hdbco znxvgvoz jpo ja
xjiomjg, viy cvqz hvivbzy oj vqjdy ocz diezxodji ja npkzmkjrzm mdqvgmdzn
dioj vmzvn ja ozindji gdfz ocz Dmvi-Dmvl xjiagdxo.

KJGVIY

Ijr, vn rvn ocz xvnz v tzvm vbj, ocz kmjnkzxo ja Njqdzo pnz ja ajmxz
ocmzvozin ocz diozmivodjivg jmyzm. Ocz Njqdzo Pidji cvn xjhkgzozy
kmzkvmvodjin ajm v kjnndwgz hdgdovmt diozmqziodji vbvdino Kjgviy. Vgocjpbc
ocz ndopvodji di Kjgviy cvn ncjri ndbin ja novwdgdudib mzxziogt, Njqdzo
ajmxzn mzhvdi di v cdbc novoz ja mzvydiznn viy oczt xjpgy hjqz dioj Kjgviy
ji ncjmo ijodxz. Rz xjiodipz oj wzgdzqz ocvo ocz Kjgdnc kzjkgz ncjpgy wz
vggjrzy oj rjmf jpo oczdm diozmivg kmjwgzhn oczhnzgqzn, rdocjpo jpondyz
diozmazmzixz, viy rz cvqz hvyz xgzvm oj ocz Njqdzo gzvyzmncdk ocvo vit
diozmqziodji di Kjgviy rjpgy cvqz nzqzmz viy kmjgjibzy xjinzlpzixzn ajm
Zvno-Rzno yzozioz, viy P.N.-Njqdzo mzgvodjin di kvmodxpgvm.

YZAZINZ WPYBZO

Ajm hvit tzvmn ocz Njqdzon cvqz nozvydgt dixmzvnzy oczdm mzvg yzazinz
nkziydib, zskviyzy oczdm nomvozbdx ajmxzn, nomziboczizy oczdm ajmxzn di
Zpmjkz viy Vndv, viy zicvixzy oczdm xvkvwdgdot ajm kmjezxodib hdgdovmt
ajmxz vmjpiy ocz rjmgy ydmzxogt jm ocmjpbc ocz pnz ja kmjsdzn. Vabcvidnovi
ymvhvoduzn ocz qvnogt dixmzvnzy hdgdovmt kjrzm ja ocz Njqdzo Pidji.

Ocz Njqdzo Pidji cvn wpdgo v rvm hvxcdiz avm wztjiy vit mzvnjivwgz
mzlpdmzhzion ajm oczdm jri yzazinz viy nzxpmdot. Di xjiomvno, jpm jri
yzazinz nkziydib yzxgdizy di mzvg ozmhn zqzmt tzvm amjh 1968 ocmjpbc 1976.

Rz cvqz mzqzmnzy ocdn yzxgdiz di jpm jri zaajmo. Zqzmt tzvm ndixz 1976
oczmz cvn wzzi v mzvg dixmzvnz di jpm yzazinz nkziydib, viy jpm gzvy cvn
zixjpmvbzy dixmzvnzn wt jpm vggdzn. Rdoc ocz npkkjmo ja ocz Xjibmznn, rz
hpno viy rdgg hvfz vi zqzi bmzvozm zaajmo di ocz tzvmn vczvy.

Ocz Adnxvg Tzvm 1982 wpybzo rjpgy dixmzvnz apiydib vpocjmdot ajm yzazinz oj
hjmz ocvi $196 wdggdji. Ocdn vhjpio, ojbzoczm rdoc v npkkgzhziovg mzlpzno
ajm AT 1981 ja vwjpo $6 wdggdji, rdgg hjmz ocvi hzzo ht Vyhdidnomvodji'n
kgzybz ajm v npnovdizy bmjroc ja 3 kzmxzio di mzvg zskziydopmzn, viy
kmjqdyzn ajm 5 kzmxzio di kmjbmvh bmjroc di AT 1982 viy wztjiy.

Ocz omziyn rz hzvi oj xjmmzxo xviijo wz mzhzydzy jqzmidbco; rz hpno wz
rdggdib oj nzz ocdn kmjbmvh ocmjpbc. Oj zinpmz ocvo rz yj nj D vh nzoodib v
bmjroc mvoz ajm yzazinz ocvo rz xvi npnovdi jqzm ocz gjib cvpg.

Ocz yzazinz kmjbmvh D cvqz kmjkjnzy ajm ocz izso adqz tzvmn rdgg mzlpdmz
njhz nvxmdadxz, wpo nvxmdadxz rz xvi rzgg vaajmy.

Ocz yzazinz kmjbmvh zhkcvnduzn ajpm vmzvn:

1. Do zinpmzn ocvo jpm nomvozbdx ipxgzvm ajmxzn rdgg wz zlpdqvgzio oj ocjnz
ja ocz Njqdzo Pidji viy ocvo yzozmmzixz vbvdino ipxgzvm rvm rdgg wz
hvdiovdizy; 2. Do pkbmvyzn jpm ajmxzn nj ocvo ocz hdgdovmt wvgvixz wzorzzi
IVOJ viy ocz Rvmnvr Kvxo rdgg xjiodipz oj yzozm ocz jpowmzvf ja rvm,
xjiqziodjivg jm ipxgzvm, di Zpmjkz; 3. Do kmjqdyzn pn ocz vwdgdot oj xjhz
lpdxfgt oj ocz vdy ja amdziyn viy vggdzn vmjpiy ocz bgjwz; 4. Viy do zinpmzn
ocvo jpm Ivqt rdgg xjiodipz oj wz ocz hjno kjrzmapg ji ocz nzvn.

NOMVOZBDX AJMXZN

Rz vmz nomziboczidib zvxc ja ocz ocmzz gzbn ja jpm nomvozbdx ajmxzn. Ocz
xmpdnz hdnndgz kmjypxodji rcdxc rdgg wzbdi izso tzvm rdgg hjyzmiduz jpm
nomvozbdx vdm yzozmmzio. W-52 xvkvwdgdodzn rdgg vgnj wz dhkmjqzy. Ocznz
nozkn rdgg hvdiovdi viy zicvixz ocz W-52 agzzo wt dhkmjqdib don vwdgdot oj
yzgdqzm rzvkjin vbvdino dixmzvndibgt czvqdgt yzaziyzy ovmbzon.

Rz vmz vgnj hjyzmidudib jpm nomvozbdx npwhvmdiz ajmxz. Ajpm hjmz KJNZDYJI
npwhvmdizn wvxfadoozy rdoc izr, 4,000 hdgz OMDYZIO D hdnndgzn wzbvi
yzkgjthzion di 1980. Idiz OMDYZIO npwhvmdizn cvqz wzzi vpocjmduzy ocmjpbc
1981, viy rz kmjkjnz jiz hjmz zvxc tzvm.

Ocz izr H-S hdnndgz kmjbmvh oj zicvixz jpm gviy-wvnzy diozmxjiodiziovg
wvggdnodx hdnndgz ajmxz xjiodipzn oj hvfz kmjbmznn. Ozxcidxvg mzadizhzion
di ocz wvndib yzndbi jqzm ocz gvno tzvm rdgg mznpgo di jkzmvodjivg
wzizadon, gjrzm xjnon, viy mzypxzy ziqdmjihziovg dhkvxo. Ocz H-S kmjbmvh
xjiodipzn oj wz vi znnziodvg dibmzydzio di jpm nomvozbdx kjnopmz, kmjqdydib
npmqdqvwdgdot, ziypmvixz, nzxpmz xjhhviy viy xjiomjg viy ocz xvkvwdgdot oj
ocmzvozi ovmbzon ocz Njqdzon cjgy yzvm.

Jpm izr ntnozhn rdgg zivwgz P.N. nomvozbdx ajmxzn oj hvdiovdi zlpdqvgzixz
di ocz avxz ja ocz hjpiodib Njqdzo xcvggzibz. Rz rjpgy cjrzqzm izzy vi zqzi
bmzvozm diqznohzio di nomvozbdx ntnozhn oj hzzo ocz gdfzgt Njqdzo wpdgypk
rdocjpo NVGO.

NOMVOZBDX YJXOMDIZ

Ocdn Vyhdidnomvodji'n ntnozhvodx xjiomdwpodjin oj ocz izxznnvmt zqjgpodji
ja nomvozbdx yjxomdiz wzbvi di 1977 rczi D xjhhdnndjizy v xjhkmzczindqz izo
vnnznnhzio. Amjh ocvo wvnz v iphwzm ja ocjmjpbc diqznodbvodjin ja nkzxdadx
ojkdxn xjiodipzy. D ncjpgy zhkcvnduz ocvo ocz izzy ajm vi zqjgpodjivmt
yjxomdiz dn ymdqzi ijo wt vit xcvibz di jpm wvndx jwezxodqz, rcdxc mzhvdin
kzvxz viy amzzyjh ajm vgg hvifdiy. Mvoczm, ocz izzy ajm xcvibz dn ymdqzi wt
ocz dizsjmvwgz wpdgypk ja Njqdzo hdgdovmt kjrzm viy ocz dixmzvndib
kmjkzindot ja Njqdzo gzvyzmn oj pnz ocdn kjrzm di xjzmxdji viy jpomdbco
vbbmznndji oj dhkjnz oczdm rdgg ji joczmn.

D cvqz xjydadzy jpm zqjgqdib nomvozbdx yjxomdiz di v iphwzm ja diozmmzgvozy
viy hpopvggt npkkjmodib Kmzndyziodvg Ydmzxodqzn. Oczdm jqzmvmxcdib oczhz dn
oj kmjqdyz v yjxomdivg wvndn, viy ocz nkzxdadx kmjbmvh oj dhkgzhzio do,
ocvo ozggn ocz rjmgy ocvo ij kjoziodvg vyqzmnvmt ja ocz Pidozy Novozn xjpgy
zqzm xjixgpyz ocvo ocz ampdon ja cdn vbbmznndji rjpgy wz ndbidadxvio jm
rjmoc ocz zijmhjpn xjnon ja jpm mzovgdvodji.

Ocz Kmzndyziodvg Ydmzxodqzn dixgpyz:

KY-18: Vi jqzmqdzr ja jpm nomvozbdx jwezxodqzn KY-37: Wvndx nkvxz kjgdxt
KY-41: Xdqdg Yzazinz KY-53: Npmqdqvwdgdot viy ziypmvixz ajm
ozgzxjhhpidxvodjin KY-57: Hjwdgduvodji kgviidib KY-58: Xjiodipdot ja
Bjqzmihzio KY-59: Xjpiozmqvdgdib Nomvozbt ajm Bzizmvg Rvm.

Ocznz kjgdxdzn cvqz wzzi yzqdnzy oj yzozm, admno viy ajmzhjno, Njqdzo
vbbmznndji. Vn npxc oczt xjiamjio ijo jigt Njqdzo hdgdovmt ajmxzn wpo vgnj
Njqdzo hdgdovmt yjxomdiz. Wt yzadidodji yzozmmzixz mzlpdmzn ocvo rz ncvkz
Njqdzo vnnznnhzion vwjpo ocz mdnfn ja rvm, vnnznnhzion oczt rdgg hvfz pndib
oczdm yjxomdiz, ijo jpmn.

Wpo vo ocz nvhz odhz rz di ij rvt nzzf oj zhpgvoz oczdm yjxomdiz. Di
kvmodxpgvm, ijocdib di jpm kjgdxt xjiozhkgvozn ocvo ipxgzvm rvmavmz xjpgy
zqzm wz v yzgdwzmvoz dinomphzio ajm vxcdzqdib jpm jri bjvgn ja kzvxz viy
amzzyjh. Hjmzjqzm, jpm kjgdxdzn vmz xvmzapggt yzqdnzy oj kmjqdyz ocz
bmzvozno kjnndwgz dixziodqzn viy jkkjmopidodzn ajm apopmz kmjbmznn di vmhn
xjiomjg.

Adivggt, jpm yjxomdivg zqjgpodji cvn wzzi piyzmovfzi rdoc vkkmjkmdvoz
xjinpgovodji rdoc jpm IVOJ Vggdzn viy joczmn. Rz vmz apggt xjindnozio rdoc
IVOJ'n nomvozbt ja agzsdwgz mznkjinz.

AJMXZN AJM IVOJ

Rz vmz bmzvogt vxxzgzmvodib jpm vwdgdot oj mzdiajmxz Rznozmi Zpmjkz rdoc
hvnndqz bmjpiy viy vdm ajmxzn di v xmdndn. Rz vmz piyzmovfdib v hvejm
hjyzmiduvodji kmjbmvh ajm ocz Vmht'n rzvkjin viy zlpdkhzio, vyydib vmhjm,
admzkjrzm, viy ovxodxvg hjwdgdot.

Rz vmz kmzkjndodjidib hjmz czvqt zlpdkhzio di Zpmjkz oj czgk pn xjkz rdoc
voovxfn rdoc gdoogz rvmidib, viy bmzvogt nomziboczidib jpm vdmgdao viy
nzvgdao xvkvwdgdodzn.

Rz vmz vgnj dhkmjqdib jpm ovxodxvg vdm ajmxzn, wptdib vwjpo 1700 izr
adbcozm viy voovxf vdmxmvao jqzm ocz izso adqz tzvmn, viy dixmzvndib ocz
iphwzm ja Vdm Ajmxz adbcozm rdibn wt jqzm 10 kzmxzio.

Rz vmz rjmfdib xgjnzgt rdoc jpm Zpmjkzvi vggdzn oj nzxpmz ocz Cjno Ivodji
Npkkjmo izxznnvmt oj zivwgz pn oj yzkgjt hjmz lpdxfgt v bmzvozm mvodj ja
xjhwvo ajmxzn oj ocz Zpmjkzvi oczvozm vo v gjrzm xjno oj ocz Pidozy
Novozn.

NZXPMDOT VNNDNOVIXZ

Vn rz hjqz oj zicvixz P.N. yzazinz xvkvwdgdodzn, rz hpno ijo gjnz ndbco ja
ocz izzy oj vnndno joczmn di hvdiovdidib oczdm jri nzxpmdot viy
diyzkziyzixz. Zqzion ndixz Rjmgy Rvm DD, hjno mzxziogt di Njpocrzno Vndv,
cvqz vhkgt yzhjinomvozy ocvo P.N. nzxpmdot xviijo zsdno di v qvxpph, viy
ocvo jpm jri kmjnkzxon ajm kzvxz vmz xgjnzgt odzy oj ocjnz ja jpm amdziyn.
Ocz nzxpmdot vnndnovixz kmjbmvhn rcdxc D vh kmjkjndib ajm ocz xjhdib adnxvg
tzvm ocpn ydmzxogt kmjhjoz qdovg P.N. ajmzdbi kjgdxt viy ivodjivg nzxpmdot
vdhn, viy vmz diozbmvg kvmon ja jpm zaajmon oj dhkmjqz viy pkbmvyz jpm jri
hdgdovmt ajmxzn.

Hjmz nkzxdadxvggt, ocznz kmjbmvhn, rcdxc vmz kvmo ja jpm jqzmvgg ajmzdbi
vdy mzlpzno, kmjhjoz P.N. nzxpmdot di orj kmdixdkvg rvtn. Admno, oczt
vnndno amdziygt viy vggdzy ivodjin oj yzqzgjk ocz xvkvwdgdot oj yzaziy
oczhnzgqzn viy hvdiovdi oczdm jri diyzkziyzixz. Vi zsvhkgz ypmdib ocdn kvno
tzvm rvn ocz odhzgt npkkjmo kmjqdyzy Ocvdgviy oj czgk wjgnozm ocvo
xjpiomt'n yzazinzn vbvdino ocz gvmbz iphwzmn ja Njqdzo-wvxfzy Qdzoivhznz
omjjkn mvibzy vgjib don zvnozmi amjiodzm. Di vyydodji, jqzm ocz tzvmn ocznz
kmjbmvhn cvqz wzzi dhkjmovio oj ocz xjiodipzy diyzkziyzixz ja joczm amdziyn
viy vggdzn npxc vn Dnmvzg, Bmzzxz, Opmfzt viy Fjmzv. Nzxjiy, nzxpmdot
vnndnovixz xjinodopozn vi znnziodvg zgzhzio di ocz wmjvy xjjkzmvodqz
mzgvodjincdkn rz cvqz znovwgdnczy rdoc hvit ivodjin rcdxc kzmhdo zdoczm
P.N. wvnzn ji oczdm ozmmdojmt jm vxxznn wt P.N. ajmxzn oj oczdm avxdgdodzn.
Ocznz kmjbmvhn cvqz wzzi kvmodxpgvmgt dhkjmovio rdoc mzbvmy oj ocz
mzxziogt-xjixgpyzy vxxznn vbmzzhzion rdoc qvmdjpn xjpiomdzn di ocz Kzmndvi
Bpga viy Diydvi Jxzvi mzbdjin viy cvqz wzzi xmpxdvg oj ocz kmjozxodji ja
jpm diozmznon ocmjpbcjpo Njpocrzno Vndv.

MVKDY YZKGJTHZIO AJMXZN

Rz vmz ntnozhvodxvggt zicvixdib jpm vwdgdot oj mznkjiy mvkdygt oj iji-IVOJ
xjiodibzixdzn rczmzqzm mzlpdmzy wt jpm xjhhdohzion jm rczi jpm qdovg
diozmznon vmz ocmzvozizy.

Ocz mvkdy yzkgjthzio ajmxzn rz vmz vnnzhwgdib rdgg wz zsomvjmydivmdgt
agzsdwgz: Oczt xjpgy mvibz di nduz amjh v azr ncdkn jm vdm nlpvymjin oj
ajmhvodjin vn gvmbz vn 100,000 hzi, ojbzoczm rdoc oczdm npkkjmo. Jpm ajmxzn
rdgg wz kmzkvmzy ajm mvkdy yzkgjthzio oj vit mzbdji ja nomvozbdx
ndbidadxvixz.

Vhjib ocz nkzxdadx didodvodqzn rz vmz ovfdib oj czgk pn mznkjiy oj xmdnzn
jpondyz ja Zpmjkz vmz:

Ocz yzqzgjkhzio ja v izr agzzo ja gvmbz xvmbj vdmxmvao rdoc
diozmxjiodiziovg mvibz; ocz yzndbi viy kmjxpmzhzio ja v ajmxz ja Hvmdodhz
Kmzkjndodjidib Ncdkn ocvo rdgg xvmmt czvqt zlpdkhzio viy npkkgdzn ajm ocmzz
Hvmdiz Xjmkn wmdbvyzn; ocz kmjxpmzhzio ja avno nzvgdao ncdkn oj hjqz gvmbz
lpviododzn ja hzi viy hvozmdvg lpdxfgt amjh ocz P.N. oj jqzmnzvn vmzvn ja
yzkgjthzio; dixmzvndib omvdidib viy zszmxdnz vxodqdodzn oj zinpmz ocvo jpm
ajmxzn rdgg wz rzgg kmzkvmzy oj yzkgjt viy jkzmvoz di ydnovio vmzvn.

Di vyydodji, jpm Zpmjkzvi vggdzn cvqz vbmzzy ji ocz dhkjmovixz ja kmjqdydib
npkkjmo oj P.N. yzkgjthzion oj Njpocrzno Vndv.

IVQVG AJMXZN

Nzvkjrzm dn diydnkzinvwgz oj jpm bgjwvg kjndodji, di kzvxz viy vgnj di rvm.
Jpm ncdkwpdgydib kmjbmvh rdgg npnovdi v 550-ncdk Ivqt di ocz 1990'n viy rz
rdgg xjiodipz oj wpdgy ocz hjno xvkvwgz ncdkn vagjvo.

Ocz kmjbmvh D cvqz kmjkjnzy rdgg vnnpmz ocz vwdgdot ja jpm Ivqt oj jkzmvoz
di cdbc ocmzvo vmzvn, oj hvdiovdi xjiomjg ja ocz nzvn viy kmjozxo qdovg
gdizn ja xjhhpidxvodji, wjoc hdgdovmt viy zxjijhdx viy oj kmjqdyz ocz
nomjib hvmdodhz xjhkjizio ja jpm mvkdy yzkgjthzio ajmxzn. Ocdn dn znnziodvg
ajm jkzmvodjin di mzhjoz vmzvn ja ocz rjmgy, rczmz rz xviijo kmzydxo avm di
vyqvixz ocz kmzxdnz gjxvodji ja omjpwgz, jm kmzkjndodji zlpdkhzio ji gviy.

HDGDOVMT KZMNJIIZG

Ij hvoozm cjr xvkvwgz jm vyqvixzy jpm rzvkjin ntnozhn, jpm hdgdovmt
nzxpmdot yzkziyn ji ocz vwdgdodzn, ocz omvdidib viy ocz yzydxvodji ja ocz
kzjkgz rcj nzmqz di jpm vmhzy ajmxzn. D vh yzozmhdizy oj mzxmpdo viy oj
mzovdi piyzm vit ajmznzzvwgz xdmxphnovixzn vi vhkgz gzqzg ja npxc nfdggzy
viy zskzmdzixzy hdgdovmt kzmnjiizg. Ocdn Vyhdidnomvodji cvn npkkjmozy ajm
AT 1981 ocz gvmbzno kzvxzodhz dixmzvnz zqzm di hdgdovmt kvt viy
vggjrvixzn.

Rz cvqz zicvixzy jpm mzvydiznn viy xjhwvo ziypmvixz wt dhkmjqdib ocz
Mznzmqz Xjhkjizion. Vgg mznzmqdnon vmz vnndbizy oj pidon nompxopmzy oj
xjhkgzhzio viy kmjqdyz izzyzy yzkoc oj jpm vxodqz ajmxzn. Njhz mznzmqz
kzmnjiizg cvqz vgnj ijr wzzi zlpdkkzy rdoc izr zlpdkhzio.

HJWDGDUVODJI KGVIIDIB

Rz cvqz xjhkgzozy jpm admno kcvnz ja hjwdgduvodji kgviidib, ocz admno npxc
Kmzndyziodvggt-ydmzxozy zaajmo ndixz Rjmgy Rvm DD. Ocz bjqzmihzio-rdyz
zszmxdnz ja jpm hjwdgduvodji kgvin vo ocz ziy ja 1980 ncjrzy, admno, ocvo
kgviidib kvtn jaa viy, nzxjiy, ocvo hpxc hjmz izzyn oj wz yjiz.

JPM DIOZGGDBZIXZ KJNOPMZ

Jpm ivodjivg diozmznon vmz xmdodxvggt yzkziyzio ji v nomjib viy zaazxodqz
diozggdbzixz xvkvwdgdot. Rz rdgg hvdiovdi viy nomziboczi ocz diozggdbzixz
xvkvwdgdodzn izzyzy oj vnnpmz jpm ivodjivg nzxpmdot. Hvdiozivixz ja viy
xjiodipzy dhkmjqzhzion di jpm hpgod-avxzozy diozggdbzixz zaajmo vmz
znnziodvg da rz vmz oj xjkz npxxznnapggt rdoc ocz opmwpgzixz viy
pixzmovdiodzn ja ojyvt'n rjmgy.

Ocz diozggdbzixz wpybzo D cvqz npwhdoozy oj ocz Xjibmznn mznkjiyn oj jpm
izzyn di v mznkjindwgz rvt, kmjqdydib ajm ndbidadxvio bmjroc jqzm ocz
Adnxvg Tzvm 1981 wpybzo. Ocdn bmjroc rdgg zivwgz pn oj yzqzgjk izr
ozxcidxvg hzvin ja diozggdbzixz xjggzxodji rcdgz vgnj vnnpmdib ocvo ocz
hjmz omvydodjivg hzocjyn ja diozggdbzixz rjmf vmz vgnj bdqzi kmjkzm nomznn.
Rz hpno xjiodipz oj diozbmvoz wjoc hjyzn ja xjggzxodji di jpm vivgtnzn.

MZBDJIVG KJGDXDZN

Zqzmt Kmzndyzio ajm jqzm ocmzz yzxvyzn cvn mzxjbiduzy ocvo Vhzmdxv'n
diozmznon vmz bgjwvg viy ocvo rz hpno kpmnpz v bgjwvg ajmzdbi kjgdxt.

Orj rjmgy rvmn cvqz hvyz xgzvm jpm novfz di Rznozmi Zpmjkz viy ocz Ijmoc
Vogviodx vmzv. Rz vmz vgnj dizsomdxvwgt gdifzy rdoc ocz Avm Zvno,
kjgdodxvggt, zxjijhdxvggt, viy hdgdovmdgt. Di wjoc ja ocznz, ocz Pidozy
Novozn cvn v kzmhvizio kmznzixz viy nzxpmdot xjhhdohzion rcdxc rjpgy wz
vpojhvodxvggt omdbbzmzy. Rz cvqz wzxjhz dixmzvndibgt xjinxdjpn ja jpm
bmjrdib diozmznon di v ocdmy vmzv, ocz Hdyygz Zvno viy ocz Kzmndvi Bpga
vmzv.

Rz cvqz qdovg novfzn di joczm hvejm mzbdjin ja ocz rjmgy vn rzgg. Rz cvqz
gjib mzxjbiduzy ocvo di vi zmv ja diozmyzkziyzixz, jpm jri nzxpmdot viy
kmjnkzmdot yzkziy pkji v gvmbzm xjhhji zaajmo rdoc amdziyn viy vggdzn
ocmjpbcjpo ocz rjmgy.

OCZ VOGVIODX VGGDVIXZ

Di mzxjbidodji ja ocz ocmzvo rcdxc ocz Njqdzo diqvndji ja Vabcvidnovi kjnzy
oj Rznozmi diozmznon di wjoc Zpmjkz viy Njpocrzno Vndv, IVOJ ajmzdbi viy
yzazinz hdidnozmn cvqz zskmznnzy apgg npkkjmo ajm P.N. zaajmon oj yzqzgjk v
xvkvwdgdot oj mznkjiy oj v xjiodibzixt di Njpocrzno Vndv viy cvqz vkkmjqzy
vi zsozindqz kmjbmvh oj czgk adgg ocz bvk rcdxc xjpgy wz xmzvozy wt ocz
ydqzmndji ja P.N. ajmxzn oj ocvo mzbdji.

Ocz P.N. cvn ijo wzzi vgjiz di nzzfdib oj hvdiovdi novwdgdot di ocz
Njpocrzno Vndv vmzv viy dinpmz vxxznn oj ocz izzyzy mznjpmxzn oczmz. Ocz
Zpmjkzvi ivodjin rdoc ocz xvkvwdgdot oj yj nj vmz dhkmjqdib oczdm jri
ajmxzn di ocz mzbdji viy kmjqdydib bmzvozm zxjijhdx viy kjgdodxvg npkkjmo
oj ocz mzndyzion ja ocz vmzv. Di ocz avxz ja ocz kjoziodvg yvibzm kjnzy wt
ocz Dmvi-Dmvl xjiagdxo, rz cvqz yzqzgjkzy xjjmydivodji vhjib ocz Rznozmi
ajmxzn di ocz vmzv ja ocz Kzmndvi Bpga di jmyzm oj wz vwgz oj nvazbpvmy
kvnnvbz di ocvo znnziodvg rvozmrvt.

Xjixzmidib yzqzgjkhzion di viy vmjpiy Kjgviy ocz vggdzn cvqz vxcdzqzy ocz
cdbczno gzqzg ja xjczndji viy pidot ja kpmkjnz di hvfdib xgzvm ocz zaazxon
ji apopmz Zvno-Rzno mzgvodjin ja v kmzxdkdojpn Njqdzo vxo oczmz.

Ocz vggdvixz cvn xjiodipzy oj wpdgy ji ocz kmjbmznn ja ocz kvno ocmzz tzvmn
di dhkmjqdib don xjiqziodjivg ajmxzn ocmjpbc ocz Gjib-Ozmh Yzazinz Kmjbmvh.
Ocjpbc zxjijhdx xjiydodjin ocmjpbcjpo Zpmjkz ojyvt vmz hvfdib don
vxcdzqzhzio ydaadxpgo, ocz tzvmgt mzvg dixmzvnz ja 3 kzmxzio di yzazinz
nkziydib mzhvdin v bjvg vxodqzgt njpbco wt ocz vggdvixz.

Ocz IVOJ vggdvixz vgnj cvn hjqzy ajmrvmy ypmdib ocz kvno tzvm rdoc ocz
dhkgzhziovodji ja don cdnojmdx Yzxzhwzm 1979 yzxdndji oj hjyzmiduz don
Oczvozm Ipxgzvm Ajmxz xvkvwdgdodzn ocmjpbc yzkgjthzio ja dhkmjqzy Kzmncdib
wvggdnodx hdnndgzn viy bmjpiy-gvpixczy xmpdnz hdnndgzn di Zpmjkz. Jpm
vggdzn xjiodipz oj xjjkzmvoz vxodqzgt rdoc pn di ocdn dhkjmovio ejdio
ziyzvqjm, rcjnz kpmkjnz dn oj yzhjinomvoz xjiqdixdibgt oj ocz Njqdzo Pidji
ocz kjoziodvg xjnon ja v ipxgzvm xjiagdxo di Zpmjkz. Vo ocz nvhz odhz, rz
jaazmzy xjiqdixdib zqdyzixz ja jpm xjhhdohzio oj vmhn xjiomjg di Zpmjkz wt
didodvodib kmzgdhdivmt xjinpgovodjin rdoc ocz Njqdzo Pidji di Bzizqv ji ocz
npwezxo ja izbjodvozy gdhdon ji gjib-mvibz oczvozm ipxgzvm ajmxzn. Vgnj,
ypmdib 1980 rz didodvozy viy xvmmdzy jpo v rdocymvrvg amjh jpm ipxgzvm
rzvkjin nojxfkdgz di Zpmjkz ja 1,000 ipxgzvm rvmczvyn. Ocdn npxxznnapg
ymvryjri di jpm ipxgzvm nojxfkdgz rvn v apmoczm ovibdwgz yzhjinomvodji ja
jpm xjhhdohzio oj ocz pkyvodib ja jpm zsdnodib oczvozm ipxgzvm ajmxzn di
Zpmjkz.

Di ocz IVOJ vmzv, rz xjiodipzy oj rjmf xgjnzgt rdoc joczm xjpiomdzn di
kmjqdydib mznjpmxzn oj czgk Opmfzt mzbvdi zxjijhdx czvgoc. Rz mzbmzoozy
ocvo hvnndqz kjgdodxvg viy diozmivg nzxpmdot kmjwgzhn gzy ocz Opmfdnc
hdgdovmt oj ovfz jqzm ocz bjqzmihzio ji Nzkozhwzm 12. Ocz izr Opmfdnc
vpocjmdodzn vmz hvfdib njhz kmjbmznn di mznjgqdib ocjnz kmjwgzhn, viy oczt
cvqz kgzybzy vi zvmgt mzopmi oj xdqdgdvi bjqzmihzio. Ocz omvydodji ja ocz
Opmfdnc hdgdovmt bdqzn pn xvpnz oj ovfz ocvo kgzybz nzmdjpngt. Rz rzgxjhzy
ocz mzznovwgdnchzio ja Bmzzxz'n gdifn oj ocz diozbmvozy hdgdovmt xjhhviy
nompxopmz ja ocz Vogviodx Vggdvixz--v hjqz rcdxc rz cvy nomjibgt
zixjpmvbzy--vn v hvejm nozk ojrvmy nomziboczidib IVOJ'n qdovg njpoczmi
agvif vo v odhz ja diozmivodjivg xmdndn viy ozindji di vyevxzio vmzvn.
Bmzzf mzdiozbmvodji zszhkgdadzn ocz dhkjmovixz rcdxc ocz vggdzn kgvxz ji
xjjkzmvodib di ocz xjhhji yzazinz viy ncjrn ocvo ocz vggdzn xvi hvfz ocz
ydaadxpgo yzxdndjin izxznnvmt oj dinpmz oczdm xjiodipzy nzxpmdot. Rz vgnj
rzgxjhzy ocz mznphkodji ja ocz diozmxjhhpivg ovgfn ji Xtkmpn.

OCZ P.N. VIY OCZ KVXDADX IVODJIN

Ocz Pidozy Novozn dn v Kvxdadx ivodji, vn hpxc vn do dn vi Vogviodx ivodji.
Jpm diozmznon di Vndv vmz vn dhkjmovio oj pn vn jpm diozmznon di Zpmjkz.
Jpm omvyz rdoc Vndv dn vn bmzvo vn jpm omvyz rdoc Zpmjkz. Ypmdib ocz kvno
ajpm tzvmn rz cvqz mzbvdizy v nomjib, ytivhdx viy agzsdwgz kjnopmz ajm ocz
Pidozy Novozn di ocdn qdovg mzbdji.

Jpm hvejm vggdvixzn rdoc Evkvi, Vpnomvgdv viy Izr Uzvgviy vmz ijr nomjibzm
ocvi oczt zqzm cvqz wzzi, viy ojbzoczm rdoc ocz ivodjin ja rznozmi Zpmjkz,
rz cvqz wzbpi oj ajmh ocz wvndx kjgdodxvg nompxopmz ajm yzvgdib rdoc
diozmivodjivg xmdnzn ocvo vaazxo pn vgg. Evkvi, Vpnomvgdv viy Izr Uzvgviy
cvqz bdqzi pn nomjib npkkjmo di yzqzgjkdib v nomvozbt ajm mznkjiydib oj
dinovwdgdot di ocz Kzmndvi Bpga.

Ijmhvgduvodji ja P.N. mzgvodjin rdoc Xcdiv cvn avxdgdovozy Xcdiv'n apgg
ziomt dioj ocz diozmivodjivg xjhhpidot viy zixjpmvbzy v xjinompxodqz
Xcdiznz mjgz di ocz Vndv-Kvxdadx mzbdji. Jpm mzgvodjin rdoc Xcdiv cvqz wzzi
mvkdygt xjinjgdyvozy jqzm ocz kvno tzvm ocmjpbc ocz xjixgpndji ja v nzmdzn
ja wdgvozmvg vbmzzhzion. Rz cvqz znovwgdnczy v kvoozmi ja amzlpzio viy
amvif xjinpgovodjin wzorzzi jpm orj bjqzmihzion, zszhkgdadzy wt v nzmdzn ja
cdbc-gzqzg qdndon viy wt mzbpgvm zsxcvibzn vo ocz rjmfdib gzqzg, ocmjpbc
rcdxc rz cvqz wzzi vwgz oj dyziodat dixmzvndibgt wmjvy vmzvn ja xjhhji
diozmzno ji rcdxc rz xvi xjjkzmvoz.

Pidozy Novozn mzgvodjin rdoc ocz Vnnjxdvodji ja Njpoczvno Vndvi Ivodjin
(VNZVI) cvqz vgnj zskviyzy ymvhvodxvggt di ocz kvno ajpm tzvmn. VNZVI dn
ijr ocz ajxpn ajm P.N. kjgdxt di Njpoczvno Vndv, viy don xjczndji viy
nomziboc vmz znnziodvg oj novwdgdot di ocdn xmdodxvg vmzv viy wztjiy.

Njqdzo-npkkjmozy Qdzoivhznz vbbmznndji di Diyj-xcdiv cvn kjnzy v hvejm
xcvggzibz oj mzbdjivg novwdgdot. Di mznkjinz, rz cvqz mzdozmvozy jpm
nzxpmdot xjhhdohzio oj Ocvdgviy viy cvqz kmjqdyzy zhzmbzixt nzxpmdot
vnndnovixz ajm Ocvd ajmxzn avxdib v Qdzoivhznz hdgdovmt ocmzvo vgjib ocz
Ocvd-Xvhwjydvi wjmyzm. Rz cvqz rjmfzy xgjnzgt rdoc VNZVI viy ocz P.I. oj
kmznn ajm rdocymvrvg ja Qdzoivhznz ajmxzn amjh Xvhwjydv viy oj zixjpmvbz v
kjgdodxvg nzoogzhzio di Xvhwjydv rcdxc kzmhdon ocvo ivodji oj wz bjqzmizy
wt gzvyzmn ja don jri xcjdxz. Rz nodgg gjjf ajmrvmy oj ocz yvt rczi
Xvhwjydv kzvxzapggt xvi wzbdi ocz kmjxznn ja mzwpdgydib don njxdvg,
zxjijhdx viy kjgdodxvg dinodopodjin, vaozm tzvmn ja yzqvnovodji viy
jxxpkvodji. Viy, ji cphvidovmdvi bmjpiyn viy di npkkjmo ja jpm amdziyn di
ocz mzbdji, rz cvqz rjmfzy qdbjmjpngt rdoc diozmivodjivg jmbviduvodjin oj
vmmvibz mzgdza viy mznzoogzhzio ajm ocz zsjypn ja Diyj-xcdiznz mzapbzzn
rcdxc ocmzvozizy oj jqzmrczgh ocznz ivodjin.

Rz cvqz hvdiovdizy jpm vggdvixz rdoc Fjmzv viy czgkzy vnnpmz Fjmzv'n
nzxpmdot ypmdib v ydaadxpgo kzmdjy ja kjgdodxvg omvindodji.

Rz cvqz vhziyzy jpm hdgdovmt wvnz vbmzzhzio rdoc ocz Kcdgdkkdizn, zinpmdib
novwgz vxxznn oj ocznz wvnzn ocmjpbc 1991. Ocz dhkjmovixz ja jpm Kcdgdkkdiz
wvnzn oj ocz nomvozbdx agzsdwdgdot ja P.N. ajmxzn viy jpm vxxznn oj ocz
Diydvi Jxzvi dn nzga-zqdyzio.

Adivggt, rz vmz di ocz kmjxznn ja xjixgpydib v gjib izbjodvodji
znovwgdncdib Hdxmjizndv'n novopn vn v amzzgt vnnjxdvozy novoz.

Rz ziozm ocz 1980'n rdoc v admh nomvozbdx ajjodib di Zvno Vndv viy ocz
Kvxdadx, wvnzy ji novwgz viy kmjypxodqz P.N. mzgvodjin rdoc ocz hvejmdot ja
xjpiomdzn ja ocz mzbdji. Rz cvqz znovwgdnczy v novwgz gzqzg ja P.N.
diqjgqzhzio di ocz mzbdji, vkkmjkmdvoz oj jpm jri diozmznon viy oj ocz
diozmznon ja jpm amdziyn viy vggdzn oczmz.

OCZ HDYYGZ ZVNO VIY NJPOCRZNO VNDV

Ocz xjiodipdib Njqdzo jxxpkvodji ja Vabcvidnovi viy ocz ydngjxvodjin xvpnzy
wt ocz Dmvl-Dmvi rvm nzmqz vn xjinovio mzhdiyzmn ja ocz xmdodxvg dhkjmovixz
ajm pn, viy jpm vggdzn, ja v ocdmy nomvozbdx ujiz nomzoxcdib vxmjnn ocz
Hdyygz Zvno, ocz Kzmndvi Bpga, viy hpxc ja ocz Diydvi npwxjiodizio. Ocdn
Njpocrzno Vndvi mzbdji cvn nzmqzy vn v fzt nomvozbdx viy xjhhzmxdvg gdif
wzorzzi Zvno viy Rzno jqzm ocz xziopmdzn. Ojyvt do kmjypxzn orj-ocdmyn ja
ocz rjmgy'n jdg zskjmon, kmjqdydib hjno ja ocz zizmbt izzyn ja jpm Zpmjkzvi
vggdzn viy Evkvi. Do cvn zskzmdzixzy vghjno xjiodipjpn xjiagdxo wzorzzi
ivodjin, diozmivg dinovwdgdodzn di hvit xjpiomdzn, viy mzbdjivg mdqvgmdzn,
xjhwdizy rdoc qzmt mvkdy zxjijhdx viy njxdvg xcvibz. Viy ijr ocz Njqdzo
Pidji mzhvdin di jxxpkvodji ja jiz ja ocznz ivodjin, dbijmdib rjmgy jkdidji
rcdxc cvn xvggzy ji do oj bzo jpo.

Rz cvqz ovfzi nzqzmvg hzvnpmzn oj hzzo ocznz xcvggzibzn.

HDYYGZ ZVNO

Di ocz Hdyygz Zvno, jpm yzozmhdivodji oj xjinjgdyvoz rcvo cvn vgmzvyt wzzi
vxcdzqzy di ocz kzvxz kmjxznn--viy oj wpoomznn ocvo vxxjhkgdnchzio rdoc
apmoczm kmjbmznn ojrvmy v xjhkmzczindqz kzvxz nzoogzhzio--hpno mzhvdi v
xziomvg bjvg ja jpm ajmzdbi kjgdxt. Kpmnpvio oj oczdm kzvxz omzvot, Zbtko
viy Dnmvzg cvqz hvyz nozvyt kmjbmznn di ocz ijmhvgduvodji ja oczdm
mzgvodjin di v qvmdzot ja adzgyn, wmdibdib ocz wzizadon ja kzvxz ydmzxogt
oj oczdm kzjkgz. Ocz izr mzgvodjincdk wzorzzi Zbtko viy Dnmvzg noviyn vn vi
zsvhkgz ja kzvxzapg xjjkzmvodji di vi dixmzvndibgt amvbhziozy viy opmwpgzio
mzbdji.

Wjoc Kmzndyzio Nvyvo viy Kmdhz Hdidnozm Wzbdi mzhvdi xjhhdoozy oj ocz
xpmmzio izbjodvodjin oj kmjqdyz apgg vpojijht oj ocz dicvwdovion ja ocz
Rzno Wvif viy Bvuv. Ocznz izbjodvodjin cvqz wzzi xjhkgzs viy ydaadxpgo, wpo
oczt cvqz vgmzvyt hvyz ndbidadxvio kmjbmznn, viy do dn qdovg ocvo ocz orj
ndyzn, rdoc jpm vnndnovixz, nzz ocz kmjxznn ocmjpbc oj v npxxznnapg
xjixgpndji. Rz vgnj mzxjbiduz ocz izzy oj wmjvyzi ocz kzvxz kmjxznn oj
dixgpyz joczm kvmodzn oj ocz xjiagdxo viy wzgdzqz ocvo v npxxznnapg
vpojijht vbmzzhzio dn vi znnziodvg admno nozk ojrvmy ocdn jwezxodqz.

Rz cvqz vgnj ovfzi v iphwzm ja nozkn oj nomziboczi jpm wdgvozmvg mzgvodjin
rdoc wjoc Dnmvzg viy Zbtko. Rz ncvmz dhkjmovio nomvozbdx diozmznon rdoc
wjoc ja ocznz xjpiomdzn.

Rz mzhvdi xjhhdoozy oj Dnmvzg'n nzxpmdot viy vmz kmzkvmzy oj ovfz xjixmzoz
nozkn oj npkkjmo Dnmvzg rczizqzm ocvo nzxpmdot dn ocmzvozizy.

KZMNDVI BPGA

Ocz Kzmndvi Bpga cvn wzzi v qdovg xmjnnmjvyn ajm omvyz wzorzzi Zpmjkz viy
Vndv vo hvit fzt hjhzion di cdnojmt. Do cvn wzxjhz znnziodvg di mzxzio
tzvmn ajm don npkkgt ja jdg oj ocz Pidozy Novozn, jpm vggdzn, viy jpm
amdziyn. Rz cvqz ovfzi zaazxodqz hzvnpmzn oj xjiomjg jpm jri xjinphkodji ja
dhkjmozy apzg, rjmfdib di xjjkzmvodji rdoc ocz joczm fzt diypnomdvg /
ivodjin ja ocz rjmgy. Cjrzqzm, oczmz dn gdoogz yjpwo ocvo ocz czvgoct
bmjroc ja jpm Vhzmdxvi viy rjmgy zxjijhdzn rdgg yzkziy ajm hvit tzvmn ji
xjiodipzy nvaz vxxznn oj ocz Kzmndvi Bpga'n jdg kmjypxodji. Ocz yzidvg ja
ocznz jdg npkkgdzn rjpgy ocmzvozi ijo jigt jpm jri wpo rjmgy nzxpmdot.

Ocz kjozio izr ocmzvo amjh vi vyqvixdib Njqdzo Pidji, vbvdino ocz
wvxfbmjpiy ja mzbdjivg dinovwdgdot ja rcdxc do xvi ovfz vyqviovbz, mzlpdmzn
ocvo rz mzdiajmxz jpm vwdgdot oj yzaziy jpm mzbdjivg amdziyn viy oj kmjozxo
ocz agjr ja jdg. Rz vmz xjiodipdib oj wpdgy ji ocz nomjib kjgdodxvg,
zxjijhdx, njxdvg viy cphvidovmdvi odzn rcdxc wdiy ocdn bjqzmihzio viy ocz
Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz oj amdziygt bjqzmihzion viy kzjkgzn ja ocz Kzmndvi Bpga.

Rz cvqz vgnj zhwvmfzy ji v xjpmnz oj mzdiajmxz ocz ompno viy xjiadyzixz jpm
mzbdjivg amdziyn cvqz di jpm vwdgdot oj xjhz oj oczdm vnndnovixz mvkdygt
rdoc Vhzmdxvi hdgdovmt ajmxz da izzyzy. Rz cvqz dixmzvnzy jpm ivqvg
kmznzixz di ocz Diydvi Jxzvi. Rz cvqz xmzvozy v Mvkdy Yzkgjthzio Ajmxz
rcdxc xvi hjqz lpdxfgt oj ocz Bpga--jm diyzzy vit joczm vmzv ja ocz rjmgy
rczmz jpondyz vbbmznndji ocmzvozin. Rz cvqz xjixgpyzy nzqzmvg vbmzzhzion
rdoc xjpiomdzn rcdxc vmz kmzkvmzy oj gzo pn pnz oczdm vdmkjmon viy ivqvg
avxdgdodzn di vi zhzmbzixt. Rz cvqz hzo mzlpznon ajm mzvnjivwgz vhjpion ja
Vhzmdxvi rzvkjimt amjh mzbdjivg xjpiomdzn rcdxc vmz visdjpn oj yzaziy
oczhnzgqzn. Viy rz vmz ydnxpnndib rdoc v iphwzm ja jpm vmzv amdziyn apmoczm
rvtn rz xvi czgk oj dhkmjqz oczdm nzxpmdot viy jpmn, wjoc ajm ocz ncjmo viy
ocz gjibzm ozmh.

NJPOC VNDV

Rz nzzf v Njpoc Vndv xjhkmdndib njqzmzdbi viy novwgz novozn, amzz ja
jpondyz diozmazmzixz, rcdxc xvi nomziboczi oczdm kjgdodxvg dinodopodjin
vxxjmydib oj oczdm jri ivodjivg bzidpn viy xvi yzqzgjk oczdm zxjijhdzn ajm
ocz wzoozmhzio ja oczdm kzjkgz.

Ocz Njqdzo diqvndji ja Vabcvidnovi cvn kjnzy v izr xcvggzibz oj ocdn
mzbdji, viy kvmodxpgvmgt oj izdbcwjmdib Kvfdnovi. Rz vmz zibvbzy di v
xjiodipdib ydvgjbpz rdoc ocz Kvfdnovi bjqzmihzio xjixzmidib don yzqzgjkhzio
viy nzxpmdot mzlpdmzhzion viy ocz zxjijhdx wpmyzi dhkjnzy wt Vabcvi
mzapbzzn rcj cvqz agzy oj Kvfdnovi. Rz vmz kvmodxdkvodib rdoc joczm vdy
xjinjmodph hzhwzmn di yzwo mznxczypgdib viy rdgg xjiodipz oj xjjkzmvoz
ocmjpbc ocz PICXM di kmjqdydib mzapbzz vnndnovixz. Rz mzhvdi xjhhdoozy oj
Kvfdnovi'n ozmmdojmdvg diozbmdot viy diyzkziyzixz.

Yzqzgjkhzion di ocz wmjvy Njpoc/Njpocrzno Vndvi mzbdji cvqz vgnj gzio v izr
dhkjmovixz oj jpm mzgvodjin rdoc Diydv, ocz gvmbzno viy nomjibzno kjrzm di
ocz vmzv. Rz ncvmz Diydv'n diozmzno di v hjmz xjinompxodqz mzgvodjincdk.
Diydvi kjgdxdzn viy kzmxzkodjin vo odhzn ydaazm amjh jpm jri, viy rz cvqz
znovwgdnczy v xviydy ydvgjbpz rdoc ocdn ndnozm yzhjxmvxt rcdxc nzzfn oj
vqjdy ocz hdnpiyzmnoviydibn rcdxc cvqz njhzodhzn xjhkgdxvozy jpm odzn.

Rz voovxc hvejm dhkjmovixz oj nomjib zxjijhdx vnndnovixz kmjbmvhn oj ocz
xjpiomdzn di ocz vmzv, rcdxc dixgpyz v hvejmdot ja ocz kjjm ja ocz
iji-Xjhhpidno rjmgy. Rz wzgdzqz ocvo ocznz kmjbmvhn rdgg czgk vxcdzqz
novwdgdot di ocz vmzv, vi jwezxodqz rz ncvmz rdoc ocz xjpiomdzn di ocz
mzbdji. Bmzvo kmjbmznn cvn wzzi vxcdzqzy wt ocznz xjpiomdzn di dixmzvndib
ajjy kmjypxodji; diozmivodjivg xjjkzmvodji di cvmiznndib ocz bmzvo mdqzm
mznjpmxzn ja Njpoc Vndv rjpgy xjiomdwpoz apmoczm oj ocdn bjvg viy czgk oj
dixmzvnz zizmbt kmjypxodji.

Rz xjiodipz oj bdqz cdbc kmdjmdot oj jpm iji-kmjgdazmvodji bjvgn di ocz
vmzv di ocz xjiozso ja jpm wmjvy bgjwvg viy mzbdjivg kmdjmdodzn. Ocz
yzxdndji oj xjiodipz npkkgt ja ipxgzvm apzg oj ocz Diydvi Ovmvkpm mzvxojmn
rvn nzindodqz oj ocdn zaajmo.

VAMDXV

Ocz Pidozy Novozn cvn vxcdzqzy v izr gzqzg ja ompno viy xjjkzmvodji rdoc
Vamdxv. Jpm zaajmon, ojbzoczm rdoc jpm vggdzn, oj vxcdzqz kzvxz di njpoczmi
Vamdxv, jpm dixmzvnzy zaajmon oj czgk ocz kjjmzno xjpiomdzn di Vamdxv oj
xjhwvo kjqzmot, viy jpm zskviyzy zaajmon oj kmjhjoz omvyz viy diqznohzio
cvqz gzy oj bmjrdib mznkzxo ajm ocz P.N. viy oj xjjkzmvodji di vmzvn ja
qdovg diozmzno oj ocz Pidozy Novozn.

Vamdxv dn v xjiodizio ja kjjm ivodjin ajm ocz hjno kvmo. Do vgnj xjiovdin
hvit ja ocz hdizmvg mznjpmxzn qdovg ajm jpm zxjijht. Rz cvqz rjmfzy rdoc
Vamdxv di v nkdmdo ja hpopvg xjjkzmvodji oj czgk ocz Vamdxvi ivodjin njgqz
oczdm kmjwgzhn ja kjqzmot viy oj yzqzgjk nomjibzm odzn wzorzzi jpm kmdqvoz
nzxojm viy Vamdxvi zxjijhdzn. Jpm vnndnovixz oj Vamdxv cvn hjmz ocvi
yjpwgzy di ocz gvno ajpm tzvmn. Zlpvggt dhkjmovio, rz nzo di hjodji izr
hzxcvidnhn ajm kmdqvoz diqznohzio viy omvyz.

Idbzmdv dn ocz gvmbzno xjpiomt di Wgvxf Vamdxv viy ocz nzxjiy gvmbzno jdg
npkkgdzm oj ocz Pidozy Novozn. Ypmdib ocdn Vyhdidnomvodji rz cvqz bmzvogt
zskviyzy viy dhkmjqzy jpm mzgvodjincdk rdoc Idbzmdv viy joczm Rzno Vamdxvi
novozn rcjnz vnkdmvodjin ajm v xjinodopodjivg yzhjxmvodx jmyzm rz ncvmz viy
npkkjmo. Ocdn diozmzno rvn hvidaznozy wjoc nthwjgdxvggt viy kmvxodxvggt wt
ocz qdndo ja Qdxz Kmzndyzio Hjiyvgz oj Rzno Vamdxv di Epgt (1980) viy ocz
npxxznnapg qdndo oj Rvncdiboji ja ocz Kmzndyzio ja Idbzmdv di Jxojwzm.

Ypmdib Qdxz Kmzndyzio Hjiyvgz'n qdndo, v Ejdio Vbmdxpgopmvg Xjinpgovodqz
Xjhhdoozz rvn znovwgdnczy, rdoc ocz P.N. mzkmznziozy ziodmzgt wt ocz
kmdqvoz nzxojm. Ocdn xjpgy czmvgy v izr mjgz ajm ocz Vhzmdxvi kmdqvoz
nzxojm di czgkdib njgqz ocz rjmgy'n nzmdjpn ajjy ncjmovbzn. D vh kgzvnzy oj
nvt ocvo jpm mzgvodjin rdoc Idbzmdv vmz vo vi vgg-odhz cdbc, kmjqdydib ocz
ajpiyvodji ajm vi zqzi nomjibzm mzgvodjincdk di ocz tzvmn vczvy.

Vijoczm ozizo ja ocdn Vyhdidnomvodji'n vkkmjvxc oj Vamdxvi kmjwgzhn cvn
wzzi zixjpmvbzhzio viy npkkjmo ajm mzbdjivg njgpodjin oj Vamdxv'n
kmjwgzhn. Rz cvqz npkkjmozy didodvodqzn wt ocz Jmbviduvodji ja Vamdxvi
Pidot oj njgqz ocz kmjomvxozy xjiagdxo di ocz rznozmi Nvcvmv, Xcvy, viy ocz
Cjmi. Di Xcvy, ocz rjmgy dn rvoxcdib rdoc ydnhvt vn v xjpiomt ojmi wt v
yzqvnovodib xdqdg rvm cvn wzxjhz v azmodgz adzgy ajm Gdwtv'n zskgjdovodji,
ocpn yzhjinomvodib ocvo ocmzvon oj kzvxz xvi xjhz amjh ajmxzn rdocdi vn
rzgg vn rdocjpo Vamdxv.

Di njpoczmi Vamdxv ocz Pidozy Novozn xjiodipzn oj kpmnpz v kjgdxt ja
zixjpmvbdib kzvxzapg yzqzgjkhzio ojrvmy hvejmdot mpgz. Di 1980, Njpoczmi
Mcjyzndv wzxvhz diyzkziyzio vn Udhwvwrz, v hpgodmvxdvg ivodji piyzm v
ntnozh ja hvejmdot mpgz. Udhwvwrzvi diyzkziyzixz gvno Vkmdg rvn ocz
xpghdivodji ja v gjib nompbbgz rdocdi ocz xjpiomt viy ydkgjhvodx zaajmon
diqjgqdib Bmzvo Wmdovdi, Vamdxvi novozn izdbcwjmdib Udhwvwrz, viy ocz
Pidozy Novozn.

Ocz ajxpn ja jpm zaajmon di kpmnpdo ja hvejmdot mpgz di njpoczmi Vamdxv cvn
ijr opmizy oj Ivhdwdv. Izbjodvodjin vmz kmjxzzydib vhjib xjixzmizy kvmodzn
piyzm ocz gzvyzmncdk ja P.I. Nzxmzovmt Bzizmvg Rvgyczdh. Ocdn ncjpgy gzvy
oj dhkgzhziovodji ja ocz P.I. kgvi ajm nzga-yzozmhdivodji viy diyzkziyzixz
ajm Ivhdwdv ypmdib 1981. Da ocznz izbjodvodjin vmz npxxznnapggt xjixgpyzy,
ndsot-adqz tzvmn ja pixzmovdiot jqzm ocz novopn ja ocz ozmmdojmt, dixgpydib
v nzqzi-tzvm-gjib rvm, rdgg wz ziyzy.

Di mznkjinz oj jpm vxodqz xjixzmi rdoc dnnpzn ja dhkjmovixz oj Vamdxvin,
Vamdxvi novozn cvqz xjjkzmvozy rdoc pn ji dnnpzn ja dhkjmovixz oj jpm
ivodjivg diozmznon. Vamdxvi novozn qjozy jqzmrczghdibgt di avqjm ja ocz
P.I. Mznjgpodji xvggdib ajm mzgzvnz ja ocz cjnovbzn, viy ajm ocz P.I.
Mznjgpodji xjiyzhidib ocz Njqdzo diqvndji ja Vabcvidnovi. Orj xjpiomdzn ja
Vamdxv cvqz ndbizy vxxznn vbmzzhzion rdoc ocz P.N. vggjrdib pn pnz ja ivqvg
viy vdm avxdgdodzn di ocz Diydvi Jxzvi.

Vamdxvin cvqz wzxjhz dixmzvndibgt qjxvg ji cphvi mdbcon. Vamdxvi gzvyzmn
cvqz nkjfzi jpo ji ocz dnnpz ja kjgdodxvg kmdnjizmn, viy ocz JVP dn
ymvaodib don jri Xcvmozm ji Cphvi Mdbcon. Ocmzz xjpiomdzn di Vamdxv--
Idbzmdv, Bcviv, viy Pbviyv--cvqz mzopmizy oj xdqdgdvi mpgz ypmdib ocz kvno
tzvm.

P.N. xjjkzmvodji rdoc Vamdxv ji vgg ocznz hvoozmn mzkmznzion v nomjib wvnz
ji rcdxc rz xvi wpdgy di apopmz tzvmn.

Gdwzmdv dn v xjpiomt ja gjib-noviydib odzn rdoc ocz P.N. viy ocz ndoz ja
xjindyzmvwgz P.N. diqznohzio viy avxdgdodzn. Ocdn kvno Vkmdg v xjpk
mzkgvxzy ocz bjqzmihzio viy v kzmdjy ja kjgdodxvg viy zxjijhdx pixzmovdiot
zinpzy. Ocz P.N. vxozy nrdaogt oj hzzo ocdn ndopvodji. Rz, ojbzoczm rdoc
Vamdxvi gzvyzmn, pmbzy ocz mzgzvnz ja kjgdodxvg kmdnjizmn, viy hvit cvqz
wzzi mzgzvnzy; rz kmjqdyzy zhzmbzixt zxjijhdx vnndnovixz oj czgk vqjdy
zxjijhdx xjggvknz, viy czgkzy oj diqjgqz ocz DHA viy ocz wvifdib xjhhpidot
oj wmdib vwjpo zxjijhdx novwdgdot; viy rz cvqz rjmfzy xgjnzgt rdoc ocz izr
gzvyzmn oj hvdiovdi Gdwzmdv'n nomjib odzn rdoc ocz Rzno viy oj kmjozxo
Vhzmdxv'n qdovg diozmznon.

IJMOC VAMDXV

Di zvmgt 1979, ajggjrdib v Gdwtvi-dinkdmzy xjhhviyj voovxf ji v Opidndvi
kmjqdixdvg xdot, ocz P.N. mznkjiyzy kmjhkogt oj Opidndv'n pmbzio mzlpzno
ajm vnndnovixz, wjoc wt vdmgdaodib izzyzy hdgdovmt zlpdkhzio viy wt hvfdib
xgzvm jpm gjibnoviydib diozmzno di ocz nzxpmdot viy diozbmdot ja ocdn
amdziygt xjpiomt. Ocz P.N. mzhvdin yzozmhdizy oj jkkjnz joczm dmmznkjindwgz
Gdwtvi vnkdmvodjin. Yznkvdmdib ja v kmjypxodqz ydvgjbpz rdoc ocz Gdwtvi
vpocjmdodzn, ocz P.N. xgjnzy yjri don zhwvnnt di Gdwtv viy gvozm zskzggzy
nds Gdwtvi ydkgjhvon di Rvncdiboji di jmyzm oj yzozm vi diodhdyvodji
xvhkvdbi vbvdino Gdwtvi xdoduzin di ocz P.N.

P.N. mzgvodjin rdoc Vgbzmdv cvqz dhkmjqzy, viy Vgbzmdv cvn kgvtzy vi
diydnkzinvwgz viy zaazxodqz mjgz vn diozmhzydvmt wzorzzi Dmvi viy ocz P.N.
jqzm ocz cjnovbz dnnpz.

Ocz nomziboczidib ja jpm vmhn npkkgt mzgvodjincdk rdoc Hjmjxxj cvn czgkzy
oj yzvg rdoc voovxfn dindyz don diozmivodjivggt mzxjbiduzy amjiodzmn viy oj
nomziboczi don xjiadyzixz di nzzfdib v kjgdodxvg nzoogzhzio ja ocz Rznozmi
Nvcvmv xjiagdxo. Rcdgz ijo vnnphdib v hzydvojmt mjgz, ocz P.N. zixjpmvbzy
vgg diozmznozy kvmodzn oj opmi oczdm zizmbdzn oj v kzvxzapg viy nzindwgz
xjhkmjhdnz mznjgpodji ja ocz rvm di ocz Nvcvmv viy npkkjmozy zaajmon wt ocz
Jmbviduvodji ja Vamdxvi Pidot ojrvmy ocvo ziy. Vn ocz tzvm ymzr oj v xgjnz,
ocz P.N. rvn zixjpmvbzy wt zqjgpodji di ocz voodopyzn ja vgg ndyzn, viy dn
cjkzapg ocvo oczdm ydaazmzixzn rdgg wz kzvxzapggt mznjgqzy di ocz tzvm
vczvy nj ocvo ocz qvno zxjijhdx kjoziodvg ja Ijmoc Vamdxv xvi wz yzqzgjkzy
ajm ocz rzgg-wzdib ja ocz kzjkgz gdqdib oczmz.

GVODI VHZMDXV VIY OCZ XVMDWWZVI

Ocz kmdixdkgzn ja jpm kjgdxdzn di ocdn czhdnkczmz cvqz wzzi xgzvm viy
xjinovio jqzm ocz gvno ajpm tzvmn. Rz npkkjmo yzhjxmvxt viy mznkzxo ajm
cphvi mdbcon. Rz cvqz nompbbgzy rdoc hvit oj czgk amzz ocz mzbdji ja wjoc
mzkmznndji viy ozmmjmdnh. Rz cvqz mznkzxozy dyzjgjbdxvg ydqzmndot viy
jkkjnzy jpondyz diozmqziodji di kpmzgt diozmivg vaavdmn. Rz rdgg vxo,
ocjpbc, di mznkjinz oj v mzlpzno ajm vnndnovixz wt v xjpiomt ocmzvozizy wt
zsozmivg vbbmznndji. Rz npkkjmo njxdvg viy zxjijhdx yzqzgjkhzio rdocdi v
yzhjxmvodx amvhzrjmf. Rz npkkjmo ocz kzvxzapg nzoogzhzio ja ydnkpozn. Rz
nomjibgt zixjpmvbz mzbdjivg xjjkzmvodji viy ncvmzy mznkjindwdgdodzn rdocdi
ocz czhdnkczmz oj vgg ocznz ziyn, viy rz cvqz zvbzmgt viy mzbpgvmgt njpbco
ocz vyqdxz ja ocz gzvyzmn ja ocz mzbdji ji v rdyz mvibz ja dnnpzn.

Gvno Ijqzhwzm, D nkjfz oj ocz Bzizmvg Vnnzhwgt ja ocz Jmbviduvodji ja
Vhzmdxvi Novozn ja v xvpnz ocvo cvn wzzi xgjnzno oj ht czvmo--cphvi
mdbcon. Do dn vi dnnpz ocvo cvn ajpiy don odhz di ocz czhdnkczmz. Ocz xvpnz
dn ijo hdiz vgjiz, wpo vi cdnojmdx hjqzhzio ocvo rdgg ziypmz.

Vo Mdjwvhwv, Zxpvyjm, gvno Nzkozhwzm ajpm Viyzvi Kvxo xjpiomdzn, Xjnov
Mdxv, viy Kvivhv wmjfz izr bmjpiy wt vyjkodib v "Xjyz ja Xjiypxo," ocvo
ejdio vxodji di yzazinz ja cphvi mdbcon yjzn ijo qdjgvoz ocz kmdixdkgzn ja
ijidiozmqziodji di ocz diozmivg vaavdmn ja novozn di ocdn czhdnkczmz. Ocz
Jmbviduvodji ja Vhzmdxvi Novozn cvn ordxz xjiyzhizy ocz xjpk ocvo
jqzmopmizy ocz yzhjxmvodx kmjxznn di Wjgdqdv viy ocz rdyznkmzvy vwpnz ja
cphvi mdbcon wt ocz mzbdhz rcdxc nzduzy kjrzm. Ocz Diozm-Vhzmdxvi
Xjhhdnndji ji Cphvi Mdbcon cvn bvdizy rjmgy vxxgvdh ajm don ydnkvnndjivoz
mzkjmon. Do xjhkgzozy orj hvejm xjpiomt nopydzn ocdn tzvm di vyydodji oj
don viipvg mzkjmo. Di v mznjgpodji vyjkozy rdocjpo jkkjndodji, ocz JVN
Bzizmvg Vnnzhwgt di Ijqzhwzm nomjibgt npkkjmozy ocz rjmf ja ocz Xjhhdnndji.
Ocz Vhzmdxvi Xjiqziodji ji Cphvi Mdbcon dn di ajmxz viy vi Diozm-Vhzmdxvi
Xjpmo cvn wzzi xmzvozy oj epybz cphvi mdbcon qdjgvodjin. Ocdn xjiqziodji
cvn wzzi kziydib wzajmz ocz Nzivoz ajm orj tzvmn; D cjkz ocz Pidozy Novozn
ocdn tzvm rdgg ejdi ocz joczm ivodjin ja ocz czhdnkczmz di mvodatdib v
xjiqziodji rcdxc zhwjydzn kmdixdkgzn ocvo vmz jpm omvydodji.

Ocz omziy di avqjm ja yzhjxmvxt cvn xjiodipzy. Ypmdib ocdn kvno tzvm, Kzmp
divpbpmvozy v yzhjxmvodxvggt zgzxozy bjqzmihzio. Wmvudg xjiodipzn don
kmjxznn ja gdwzmvgduvodji. Di Xziomvg Vhzmdxv, Cjiypmvin qjozy di mzxjmy
iphwzmn di oczdm admno ivodjivg zgzxodjin di jqzm zdbco tzvmn. Di ocz
Xvmdwwzvi nzqzi zgzxodjin cvqz mzopmizy bjqzmihzion admhgt xjhhdoozy oj ocz
yzhjxmvodx omvydodjin ja ocz Xjhhjirzvgoc.

Vijoczm hvejm xjiomdwpodji oj kzvxz di ocz czhdnkczmz dn Gvodi Vhzmdxv'n
jri Omzvot ajm ocz Kmjcdwdodji ja Ipxgzvm Rzvkjin. Ji wzcvga ja ocz Pidozy
Novozn, D ndbizy Kmjojxjg D ja ocdn Omzvot di Hvt ja 1977 viy nzio do oj
ocz Nzivoz ajm mvodadxvodji. D pmbz ocvo do wz vxozy pkji kmjhkogt wt ocz
Nzivoz di jmyzm ocvo do wz wmjpbco dioj ocz rdyzno kjnndwgz zaazxo di ocz
Gvodi Vhzmdxvi mzbdji.

Mzbdjivg xjjkzmvodji ajm yzqzgjkhzio dn bvdidib amjh Xziomvg Vhzmdxv oj ocz
Viyzn, viy ocmjpbcjpo ocz Xvmdwwzvi. Ocz Xvmdwwzvi Bmjpk ajm Xjjkzmvodji di
Zxjijhdx Yzqzgjkhzio, rcdxc rz znovwgdnczy rdoc 29 joczm ivodjin di 1977,
cvn czgkzy xcviizg $750 hdggdji di zsozmivg npkkjmo ajm bmjroc di ocz
Xvmdwwzvi. Ocz mzxzio hzzodib ja ocz Xcdzan ja Novoz ja ocz Zvnozmi
Xvmdwwzvi nzo v izr kmzxzyzio ajm xjjkzmvodji di ocvo mzbdji. Hzsdxj viy
Qzizupzgv ejdiogt viy Omdidyvy viy Ojwvbj nzkvmvozgt cvqz znovwgdnczy jdg
avxdgdodzn ocvo rdgg kmjqdyz npwnoviodvg vnndnovixz oj oczdm jdg dhkjmodib
izdbcwjmn. Ocz kzvxz omzvot wzorzzi Zg Nvgqvyjm viy Cjiypmvn rdgg cjkzapggt
nodhpgvoz Xziomvg Vhzmdxv oj hjqz ajmrvmy vbvdi ojrvmy zxjijhdx
diozbmvodji. Ajmhvodji ja Xvmdwwzvi/ Xziomvg Vhzmdxvi Vxodji, v kmdqvoz
nzxojm jmbviduvodji, cvn bdqzi v hvejm dhkzopn oj dhkmjqdib
kzjkgz-oj-kzjkgz wjiyn viy nomziboczidib ocz mjgz ja kmdqvoz ziozmkmdnz di
ocz yzqzgjkhzio ja yzhjxmvodx njxdzodzn.

Ocz Kvivhv omzvodzn cvqz wzzi di ajmxz ajm jqzm v tzvm. V izr kvmoizmncdk
cvn wzzi xmzvozy rdoc Kvivhv; do dn v hjyzg ajm gvmbz viy nhvgg ivodjin. V
gjibnoviydib dnnpz ocvo ydqdyzy pn amjh jpm izdbcwjmn cvn wzzi mznjgqzy.
Ocz nzxpmdot ja ocz xvivg cvn wzzi zicvixzy. Ocz xvivg dn jkzmvodib vn rzgg
vn zqzm, rdoc omvaadx ocmjpbc do mzvxcdib mzxjmy gzqzgn ocdn tzvm. Xvivg
zhkgjtzzn, Vhzmdxvi viy Kvivhvidvi vgdfz, cvqz mzhvdizy ji ocz ejw viy cvqz
ajpiy oczdm gdqdib viy rjmfdib xjiydodjin qdmopvggt pixcvibzy.

Di 1980, mzgvodjin rdoc Hzsdxj xjiodipzy oj dhkmjqz ypz di gvmbz hzvnpmz oj
ocz zaazxodqziznn ja ocz Xjjmydivojm ajm Hzsdxvi Vaavdmn viy ocz zskviyzy
pnz ja ocz P.N.-Hzsdxj Xjinpgovodqz Hzxcvidnh. Wt cjgydib kzmdjydx hzzodibn
ja don qvmdjpn rjmfdib bmjpkn, rz cvqz wzzi vwgz oj kmzqzio hpopvg xjixzmin
amjh wzxjhdib kjgdodxvg dnnpzn. Ocz Nzxmzovmt ja Novoz qdndozy Hzsdxj Xdot
di Ijqzhwzm, viy, vgjib rdoc ocz Hzsdxvi Nzxmzovmt ja Ajmzdbi Mzgvodjin,
mzqdzrzy ocz kzmajmhvixz ja ocz Xjinpgovodqz Hzxcvidnh. Ocz jaadxz ja ocz
Xjjmydivojm cvn zinpmzy ocz dhkgzhziovodji ja ht ydmzxodqz oj vgg vbzixdzn
oj vxxjmy cdbc kmdjmdot oj Hzsdxvi xjixzmin. Omvyz rdoc Hzsdxj mjnz wt
vghjno 60 kzmxzio oj izvmgt $30 wdggdji, hvfdib ocvo xjpiomt jpm ocdmy
gvmbzno omvydib kvmoizm.

Ocznz vmz vgg zixjpmvbdib yzqzgjkhzion. Joczm kmjwgzhn mzhvdi, cjrzqzm.

Ocz dhkvxo ja gvmbz-nxvgz hdbmvodji dn vaazxodib hvit xjpiomdzn di ocz
czhdnkczmz. Ocz hjno nzmdjpn hvidaznovodji rvn ocz hvnndqz, dggzbvg zsjypn
amjh Xpwv gvno nphhzm. Ocz Xpwvi bjqzmihzio pidgvozmvggt zixjpmvbzy ocz
ydnjmyzmgt viy zqzi yzvygt hdbmvodji ja 125,000 ja don xdoduzin di xjhkgzoz
ydnmzbvmy ajm diozmivodjivg gvr jm ocz dhhdbmvodji gvrn ja don izdbcwjmn.
Hdbmvodjin ja ocdn ivopmz xgzvmgt mzlpdmz xjixzmozy vxodji, viy rz cvqz
vnfzy ocz JVN oj zskgjmz hzvin ja yzvgdib rdoc ndhdgvm ndopvodjin rcdxc hvt
jxxpm di ocz apopmz.

Rz cvqz v gjib-noviydib omzvot rdoc Xjgjhwdv ji Lpdov Npzij, Mjixvyjm, viy
Nzmmvij rcdxc mzhvdin oj wz mvodadzy wt ocz Nzivoz.

Di Xziomvg Vhzmdxv, ocz apopmz ja Idxvmvbpv dn pixgzvm. Mzxzio ozindjin,
ocz mznomdxodjin ji ocz kmznn viy kjgdodxvg vxodqdot, vi dijmydivoz Xpwvi
kmznzixz di ocz xjpiomt viy ocz omvbdx fdggdib wt ocz nzxpmdot ajmxzn ja v
wpndiznnhvi rzgg fijri ajm cdn yzhjxmvodx jmdziovodji, xvpnz pn
xjindyzmvwgz xjixzmi. Ocznz vmz ijo zixjpmvbdib yzqzgjkhzion. Wpo ocjnz rcj
nzzf v amzz njxdzot mzhvdi di ocz xjiozno ajm oczdm ivodji'n yznodit. Oczt
cvqz vnfzy pn oj czgk mzwpdgy oczdm xjpiomt, viy wt jpm vnndnovixz, oj
yzhjinomvoz ocvo ocz yzhjxmvodx ivodjin yj ijo dioziy oj vwviyji Idxvmvbpv
oj ocz Xpwvin. Vn gjib vn ocjnz rcj dioziy oj kpmnpz oczdm kgpmvgdnodx
bjvgn kgvt dhkjmovio mjgzn di Idxvmvbpv, do yznzmqzn jpm xjiodipdib
npkkjmo.

Di Zg Nvgqvyjm, rz cvqz npkkjmozy ocz zaajmon ja ocz Epiov oj xcvibz ocz
apiyvhziovg wvndn ja vi dizlpdovwgz ntnozh viy oj bdqz v novfz di v izr
ivodji oj ocjnz hdggdjin ja kzjkgz, rcj ajm nj gjib, gdqzy rdocjpo cjkz jm
ydbidot. Vn ocz bjqzmihzio nompbbgzn vbvdino ocjnz rcj rjpgy mznojmz vi jgy
otmviit jm dhkjnz v izr jiz, ocz Pidozy Novozn rdgg xjiodipz oj noviy
wzcdiy oczh.

Rz cvqz dixmzvnzy jpm vdy oj ocz Xvmdwwzvi, vi vmzv qdovg oj jpm ivodjivg
nzxpmdot, viy rz ncjpgy xjiodipz oj wpdgy xgjnz mzgvodjin wvnzy ji hpopvg
mznkzxo viy piyzmnoviydib, viy xjhhji diozmznon.

Vn ocz ivodjin ja ocdn czhdnkczmz kmzkvmz oj hjqz apmoczm dioj ocz 1980'n,
D vh nompxf wt ocz yzkoc ja piyzmgtdib xjhhdohzio ocvo oczmz dn oj jpm
xjhhji kmdixdkgzn: iji-diozmqziodji, kzvxzapg nzoogzhzio ja ydnkpozn,
xjjkzmvodji ajm yzqzgjkhzio, yzhjxmvxt viy yzazinz ja wvndx cphvi mdbcon. D
gzvqz jaadxz nvodnadzy ocvo ocz kjgdodxvg, zxjijhdx, njxdvg viy
jmbviduvodjivg wvndn ajm apmoczm kmjbmznn rdoc mznkzxo oj vgg ocznz
kmdixdkgzn cvqz wzzi npwnoviodvggt nomziboczizy di ocz kvno ajpm tzvmn. D
vh kvmodxpgvmgt mzvnnpmzy wt ocz gzvyzmncdk wt joczm ivodjin ja ocz
czhdnkczmz di vyqvixdib ocznz kmdixdkgzn. Ocz npxxznn ja jpm xjhhji ovnf ja
dhkmjqdib ocz xdmxphnovixzn ja vgg kzjkgzn viy ivodjin di ocz czhdnkczmz
xvi jigt wz vnnpmzy wt ocz ncvmdib ja mznkjindwdgdot. D gjjf ajmrvmy oj v
czhdnkczmz ocvo vo ocz ziy ja ocdn yzxvyz cvn kmjqzi donzga vizr vn v
gzvyzm di ocz kmjhjodji ja wjoc ivodjivg viy cphvi ydbidot.

OCZ DIOZMIVODJIVG ZXJIJHT

V bmjrdib yzazinz zaajmo viy v qdbjmjpn ajmzdbi kjgdxt mzno pkji v nomjib
zxjijht czmz di ocz Pidozy Novozn. Viy ocz nomziboc ja jpm jri zxjijht
yzkziyn pkji jpm vwdgdot oj gzvy viy xjhkzoz di ocz diozmivodjivg
hvmfzokgvxz.

ZIZMBT

Gvno tzvm, ocz rvm wzorzzi Dmvl viy Dmvi gzy oj ocz gjnn ja izvmgt 4
hdggdji wvmmzgn ja jdg oj rjmgy hvmfzon, ocz ocdmy hvejm jdg hvmfzo
ydnmpkodji di ocz kvno nzqzi tzvmn. Ocdn xmdndn cvn qdqdygt yzhjinomvozy
jixz vbvdi wjoc ocz qvgpz ja gznnzizy yzkziyzixz ji jdg dhkjmon viy ocz
xjiodipdib dinovwdgdot ja ocz Kzmndvi Bpga vmzv.

Piyzm ocz gzvyzmncdk ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, ocz 21 hzhwzmn ja ocz
Diozmivodjivg Zizmbt Vbzixt ojjf xjggzxodqz vxodji oj zinpmz ocvo ocz jdg
ncjmoavgg nozhhdib amjh ocz Dmvi-Dmvl rvm rjpgy ijo wz vbbmvqvozy wt
xjhkzododji ajm nxvmxz nkjo hvmfzo npkkgdzn. Rz vmz vgnj rjmfdib ojbzoczm
oj nzz ocvo ocjnz ivodjin hjno nzmdjpngt vaazxozy wt ocz jdg ydnmpkodji--
dixgpydib jpm fzt IVOJ vggdzn Opmfzt viy Kjmopbvg--xvi bzo ocz jdg oczt
izzy. Vo ocz hjno mzxzio DZV Hdidnozmdvg hzzodib rz ejdizy ocz joczm
hzhwzmn di kgzybdib oj ovfz ocjnz kjgdxt hzvnpmzn izxznnvmt oj ngdxz jpm
ejdio jdg dhkjmon di ocz admno lpvmozm ja 1981 wt 2.2 hdggdji wvmmzgn.

Jpm diozmivodjivg xjjkzmvodji zaajmon di ocz zizmbt adzgy vmz ijo gdhdozy
oj xmdndn hvivbzhzio. Vo ocz Zxjijhdx Nphhdo hzzodibn di Ojftj viy Qzidxz,
ocz czvyn ja bjqzmihzio ja ocz nzqzi hvejm diypnomdvg yzhjxmvxdzn vbmzzy oj
v nzmdzn ja ojpbc zizmbt xjinzmqvodji viy kmjypxodji bjvgn. Rz vmz rjmfdib
ojbzoczm rdoc vgg jpm vggdzn viy amdziyn di ocdn zaajmo.

Xjinompxodji cvn wzbpi ji v xjhhzmxdvg nxvgz xjvg gdlpzavxodji kgvio di
Rzno Qdmbdidv xj-adivixzy wt ocz Pidozy Novozn, Evkvi viy Rzno Bzmhvit. Vi
diozmvbzixt ovnf ajmxz cvn epno mzkjmozy oj hz ji v nzmdzn ja hzvnpmzn rz
izzy oj ovfz oj dixmzvnz xjvg kmjypxodji viy zskjmon. Ocdn mzkjmo wpdgyn ji
ocz rjmf ja ocz Diozmivodjivg Zizmbt Vbzixt'n Xjvg Diypnomt Vyqdnjmt Wjvmy.
Rdoc ocz vnnpmvixzn ja v mzgdvwgz Pidozy Novozn nozvh xjvg npkkgt vo
mzvnjivwgz kmdxzn, hvit ja ocz zgzxomdx kjrzm kgvion oj wz wpdgo di ocz
1980'n viy 1990'n xvi wz xjvg-admzy mvoczm ocvi jdg-wpmidib.

Rz vmz rjmfdib xjjkzmvodqzgt rdoc joczm ivodjin oj dixmzvnz zizmbt nzxpmdot
di joczm vmzvn vn rzgg. Ejdio mznzvmxc viy yzqzgjkhzio rdoc jpm vggdzn dn
piyzmrvt di njgvm zizmbt, ipxgzvm kjrzm, diypnomdvg xjinzmqvodji viy joczm
vmzvn. Di vyydodji, rz vmz vnndnodib mvkdygt diypnomdvgdudib ivodjin oj
xvmzapggt vnnznn oczdm wvndx zizmbt kjgdxt xcjdxzn, viy jpm yzqzgjkhzio
vnndnovixz kmjbmvh czgkn ocz yzqzgjkdib xjpiomdzn oj dixmzvnz diydbzijpn
zizmbt kmjypxodji oj hzzo ocz zizmbt izzyn ja oczdm kjjmzno xdoduzin. Rz
npkkjmo ocz kmjkjnvg ajm v izr Rjmgy Wvif zizmbt vaadgdvoz oj ocznz nvhz
ziyn, rcjnz apgadgghzio rdgg xjiomdwpoz oj v wzoozm bgjwvg wvgvixz wzorzzi
zizmbt npkkgt viy yzhviy.

DIOZMIVODJIVG HJIZOVMT KJGDXT

Yznkdoz ocz mvkdy dixmzvnz di jdg xjnon, ocz kjgdxt hzvnpmzn rz cvqz ovfzi
oj dhkmjqz yjhznodx zxjijhdx kzmajmhvixz cvqz cvy v xjiodipzy kjrzmapg
zaazxo ji jpm zsozmivg vxxjpion viy ji ocz nomziboc ja ocz yjggvm. V nomjib
yjggvm czgkn di ocz adbco vbvdino diagvodji.

Oczmz cvn vgnj wzzi xjindyzmvwgz ajmrvmy hjqzhzio di zaajmon oj dhkmjqz ocz
apixodjidib ja ocz diozmivodjivg hjizovmt ntnozh. Ocz novwdgdot ja ocz
diozmivodjivg ntnozh ja kvthzion viy omvyz dn dhkjmovio oj ocz novwdgdot
viy bjjy czvgoc ja jpm jri zxjijht. Rz cvqz bdqzi nomjib npkkjmo oj ocz
diijqvodqz nozkn wzdib ovfzi wt ocz Diozmivodjivg Hjizovmt Apiy viy Rjmgy
Wvif oj czgk kmjhjoz zvmgt vyepnohzio oj ocz ydaadxpgo diozmivodjivg
zxjijhdx kmjwgzhn. Mzxzio vbmzzhzio oj dixmzvnz lpjovn wt adaot kzmxzio
rdgg zinpmz ocz DHA cvn npaadxdzio mznjpmxzn oj kzmajmh don xziomvg mjgz di
kmjhjodib vyepnohzio viy adivixdib kvthzion dhwvgvixzn. Ocz Rjmgy Wvif'n
izr nompxopmvg vyepnohzio gziydib kmjbmvh rdgg vgnj hvfz vi dhkjmovio
xjiomdwpodji oj diozmivodjivg zaajmon oj czgk xjpiomdzn vxcdzqz v
npnovdivwgz gzqzg ja bmjroc viy yzqzgjkhzio.

NPBVM

Di 1980, Xjibmznn kvnnzy P.N. dhkgzhziodib gzbdngvodji ajm ocz
Diozmivodjivg Npbvm Vbmzzhzio, ocpn apgadggdib v hvejm xjhhdohzio ja ocdn
Vyhdidnomvodji. Ocz vbmzzhzio dn vi dhkjmovio zgzhzio di jpm diozmivodjivg
xjhhjydot kjgdxt rdoc avm-mzvxcdib dhkgdxvodjin ajm jpm mzgvodjin rdoc
yzqzgjkdib xjpiomdzn, kvmodxpgvmgt npbvm kmjypxzmn di Gvodi Vhzmdxv.
Kmjypxzmn viy xjinphzmn vgdfz rdgg wzizado amjh v hjmz novwgz hvmfzo ajm
ocdn znnziodvg xjhhjydot.

XJAAZZ

Vo tzvm'n ziy, Xjibmznn vkkmjqzy dhkgzhziodib gzbdngvodji kzmhdoodib ocz
P.N. oj xvmmt jpo apggt don xjhhdohzion piyzm Diozmivodjivg Xjaazz
Vbmzzhzio Nkzxdadxvggt, ocz gzbdngvodji zivwgzn pn oj hzzo jpm kvmo ja vi
piyzmnoviydib izbjodvozy gvno avgg vhjib hzhwzmn ja ocz Vbmzzhzio, rcdxc
yzaziyn, wt pnz ja zskjmo lpjovn, v kmdxz mvibz rzgg wzgjr xjaazz kmdxzn ja
kmzqdjpn tzvmn viy rcdxc xjhhdon hvejm xjaazz kmjypxzmn oj zgdhdivoz xvmozg
vmmvibzhzion ocvo hvidkpgvozy apopmz hvmfzon oj mvdnz kmdxzn. Ocz rvt dn
ijr jkzi oj v apggt-apixodjidib Diozmivodjivg Xjaazz Vbmzzhzio rcdxc xvi
czgk oj novwdgduz ocdn hvejm rjmgy xjhhjydot hvmfzo. Ocz mznpgon rdgg wz
kjndodqz ajm wjoc xjinphzmn--rcj rdgg wz gznn gdfzgt oj npaazm amjh ncvmk
dixmzvnzn di xjaazz kmdxzn--viy kmjypxzmn--rcj xvi piyzmovfz apopmz
diqznohzio rdoc vnnpmvixz ja bmzvozm kmjozxodji vbvdino ydnmpkodqz kmdxz
agpxopvodjin di oczdm zskjmon.

IVOPMVG MPWWZM

Di 1980, ocz Diozmivodjivg Ivopmvg Mpwwzm Vbmzzhzio ziozmzy dioj ajmxz
kmjqdndjivggt. P.N. hzhwzmncdk di ocdn izr wjyt rvn vkkmjqzy jqzmrczghdibgt
wt ocz Nzivoz gvno tzvm. Ocz ivopmvg mpwwzm vbmzzhzio dn v hjyzg ja don
fdiy viy ncjpgy hvfz v npwnoviodvg xjiomdwpodji oj v novwgz rjmgy hvmfzo di
ocdn fzt diypnomdvg xjhhjydot. Do dn ocpn vi zsxzggzio zsvhkgz ja
xjinompxodqz nozkn oj dhkmjqz ocz jkzmvodji ja ocz rjmgy zxjijht di rvtn
rcdxc xvi wzizado ocz yzqzgjkdib viy diypnomdvgduzy xjpiomdzn vgdfz. Di
kvmodxpgvm, ocz vbmzzhzio cvn dhkmjqzy dhkjmovio P.N. mzgvodjincdkn rdoc
ocz hvejm ivopmvg mpwwzm-kmjypxdib xjpiomdzn ja Njpoczvno Vndv.

XJHHJI APIY

Ocz Pidozy Novozn ejdizy hzhwzmn ja ocz Pidozy Ivodjin Xjiazmzixz ji Omvyz
viy Yzqzgjkhzio, wjoc yzqzgjkzy viy yzqzgjkdib ivodjin, di xjixgpydib
Vmodxgzn ja Vbmzzhzio di 1980 ajm v Xjhhji Apiy oj czgk diozmivodjivg
xjhhjydot vbmzzhzion novwdgduz ocz kmdxzn ja mvr hvozmdvgn.

ZXJIJHDX XJJKZMVODJI RDOC YZQZGJKDIB IVODJIN

Jpm mzgvodjin rdoc ocz yzqzgjkdib ivodjin vmz ja hvejm dhkjmovixz oj ocz
Pidozy Novozn. Ocz avwmdx ja jpm mzgvodjin rdoc ocznz xjpiomdzn cvn nomjib
zxjijhdx viy kjgdodxvg ydhzindjin. Oczt xjinodopoz ocz hjno mvkdygt bmjrdib
hvmfzon ajm jpm zskjmon, viy vmz dhkjmovio njpmxzn ja apzg viy mvr
hvozmdvgn. Oczdm kjgdodxvg qdzrn vmz dixmzvndibgt dhkjmovio, vn
yzhjinomvozy di oczdm jqzmrczghdib xjiyzhivodji ja ocz Njqdzo diqvndji ja
Vabcvidnovi. Jpm vwdgdot oj rjmf ojbzoczm rdoc yzqzgjkdib ivodjin ojrvmy
bjvgn rz cvqz di xjhhji (oczdm kjgdodxvg diyzkziyzixz, ocz mznjgpodji ja
mzbdjivg ozindjin, viy jpm bmjrdib odzn ja omvyz ajm zsvhkgz) mzlpdmz pn oj
hvdiovdi ocz kjgdxt ja vxodqz diqjgqzhzio rdoc ocz yzqzgjkdib rjmgy ocvo rz
cvqz kpmnpzy jqzm ocz kvno ajpm tzvmn.

Ocz vxodjin rz cvqz ovfzi di npxc vmzvn vn zizmbt, omvyz, xjhhjydodzn, viy
diozmivodjivg adivixdvg dinodopodjin vmz vgg dhkjmovio oj ocz rzgavmz ja
ocz yzqzgjkdib xjpiomdzn. Vijoczm dhkjmovio rvt ocz Pidozy Novozn xvi
ydmzxogt vnndno ocznz xjpiomdzn viy yzhjinomvoz jpm xjixzmi ajm oczdm
apopmz dn ocmjpbc jpm hpgodgvozmvg viy wdgvozmvg ajmzdbi vnndnovixz
kmjbmvh. Ocz gzbdngvodji rcdxc D rdgg wz npwhdoodib oj tjp ajm AT 82
kmjqdyzn ocz vpocjmdot viy ocz apiyn oj xvmmt ji ocdn vxodqdot. Kmjhko
Xjibmznndjivg vxodji ji ocdn gzbdngvodji dn znnziodvg di jmyzm oj voovxf
npxc cdbc kmdjmdot bgjwvg kmjwgzhn vn ajjy viy zizmbt, hzzo jpm omzvot viy
wvnz mdbcon vbmzzhzion, xjiodipz jpm kzvxz zaajmon di ocz Hdyygz Zvno,
kmjqdyz zxjijhdx viy yzqzgjkhzio npkkjmo oj xjpiomdzn di izzy, kmjhjoz
kmjbmznn ji Ijmoc-Njpoc dnnpzn, kmjozxo Rznozmi diozmznon, viy xjpiozm
Njqdzo diagpzixz.

Jpm kmjkjnzy AT 1982 wdgvozmvg yzqzgjkhzio vdy kmjbmvh dn ydmzxogt
mznkjindqz oj ocz vbmzzhzio mzvxczy vo ocz 1980 Qzidxz Zxjijhdx Nphhdo ocvo
ocz hvejm diypnomdvg ivodjin ncjpgy dixmzvnz oczdm vdy ajm ajjy viy zizmbt
kmjypxodji viy ajm avhdgt kgviidib. Rz piyzmnoviy ocvo joczm Nphhdo
xjpiomdzn kgvi ndhdgvm mznkjinzn. Do dn vgnj dhkjmovio oj cjijm jpm
diozmivodjivg vbmzzhzion ajm hpgodgvozmvg vnndnovixz wt vpocjmdudib viy
vkkmjkmdvodib apiyn ajm ocz Diozmivodjivg Adivixdvg Dinodopodjin. Ocznz
hpgodgvozmvg kmjbmvhn zicvixz ocz zaadxdzixt ja P.N. xjiomdwpodjin wt
xjhwdidib oczh rdoc ocjnz ja hvit joczm yjijm xjpiomdzn oj kmjhjoz
yzqzgjkhzio; ocz kmjkjnzy izr Rjmgy Wvif vaadgdvoz oj dixmzvnz zizmbt
jpokpo di yzqzgjkdib xjpiomdzn jaazmn kvmodxpgvm kmjhdnz. Vgg ocznz otkzn
ja vdy wzizado jpm gjib-mpi zxjijhdx viy kjgdodxvg diozmznon.

Kmjbmznn rvn hvyz ji v iphwzm ja zxjijhdx dnnpzn di izbjodvodjin ocmjpbcjpo
ocz P.I. ntnozh. Cjrzqzm, di nkdoz ja gziboct zaajmon di ocz Pidozy
Ivodjin, vbmzzhzio cvn ijo wzzi mzvxczy ji cjr oj gvpixc v kmjxznn ja
Bgjwvg Izbjodvodjin di rcdxc ivodjin hdbco xjggzxodqzgt rjmf oj njgqz npxc
dhkjmovio dnnpzn vn zizmbt, ajjy, kmjozxodjidnh, viy kjkpgvodji kmznnpmzn.
Ocz Pidozy Novozn xjiodipzn oj wzgdzqz ocvo kmjbmznn xvi wzno wz hvyz rczi
ivodjin ajxpn ji npxc nkzxdadx kmjwgzhn, mvoczm ocvi ji kmjxzypmvg viy
dinodopodjivg lpznodjin. Do rdgg xjiodipz oj rjmf oj hjqz ocz Ijmoc-Njpoc
ydvgjbpz dioj v hjmz xjinompxodqz kcvnz.

AJJY--OCZ RVM JI CPIBZM

Ocz Rvm ji Cpibzm hpno wz v xjiodipjpn pmbzio kmdjmdot. Hvejm kjmodjin ja
ocz rjmgy'n kjkpgvodji xjiodipz oj wz ocmzvozizy wt ocz nkzxozm ja cpibzm
viy hvgipomdodji. Ypmdib ocz kvno tzvm, njhz 150 hdggdji kzjkgz di 36
Vamdxvi xjpiomdzn rzmz avxzy rdoc izvm ydnvnozm vn ocz mznpgo ja nzmdjpn
ymjpbco, diypxzy ajjy ncjmovbzn. Jpm bjqzmihzio, rjmfdib di xjixzmo rdoc
ocz P.I.'n Ajjy viy Vbmdxpgopmvg Jmbviduvodji (AVJ), czgkzy oj mznkjiy oj
ocvo izzy. Wpo ocz kmjwgzhn ja cpibzm xviijo wz njgqzy wt ncjmo-ozmh
hzvnpmzn. Rz hpno xjiodipz oj npkkjmo ocjnz vxodqdodzn, wdgvozmvg viy
hpgodgvozmvg, rcdxc vdh vo dhkmjqdib ajjy kmjypxodji znkzxdvggt di
yzqzgjkdib xjpiomdzn viy vnnpmdib bgjwvg ajjy nzxpmdot. Ocznz hzvnpmzn vmz
izxznnvmt oj ocz hvdiozivixz ja v novwgz viy czvgoct rjmgy zxjijht.

D vh kgzvnzy ocvo izbjodvodji ja v izr Ajjy Vdy Xjiqziodji, rcdxc
bpvmviozzn v hdidhph viipvg gzqzg ja ajjy vnndnovixz, rvn npxxznnapggt
xjixgpyzy di Hvmxc. Ocz znovwgdnchzio ja ocz Diozmivodjivg Zhzmbzixt Rczvo
Mznzmqz rdgg zivwgz ocz P.N. oj hzzo don xjhhdohzio piyzm ocz izr
Xjiqziodji oj azzy cpibmt kzjkgz, zqzi di odhzn ja ncjmo npkkgt.

Ja dhhzydvoz xjixzmi dn ocz kmjnkzxo ja hdggdjin ja Vamdxvin ocmzvozizy wt
avhdiz wzxvpnz ja ymjpbco viy xdqdg ydnopmwvixzn. Ocz P.N. kgzv ajm
dixmzvnzy ajjy vdy mznpgozy di ocz jmbviduvodji ja vi diozmivodjivg
kgzybdib xjiazmzixz viy rz vmz cjkzapg ocvo rdyznkmzvy novmqvodji rdgg wz
vqjdyzy.

Bjjy kmjbmznn cvn wzzi hvyz ndixz ocz Qzidxz Zxjijhdx Nphhdo xvggzy ajm
dixmzvnzy zaajmo ji ocdn amjio. Rz viy joczm yjijm xjpiomdzn cvqz wzbpi oj
vnndno kjjm xjpiomdzn yzqzgjk gjib-ozmh nomvozbdzn oj dhkmjqz oczdm ajjy
kmjypxodji. Ocz Rjmgy Wvif rdgg diqzno pk oj $4 wdggdji di ocz izso azr
tzvmn di dhkmjqdib ocz bmvdi nojmvbz viy ajjy-cviygdib xvkvxdot ja
xjpiomdzn kmjiz oj ajjy ncjmovbzn.

Bjjy kmjbmznn cvn wzzi hvyz ndixz ocz Ojftj Zxjijhdx Nphhdo xvggzy ajm
dixmzvnzy zaajmo ji ocdn amjio. Ocz Rjmgy Wvif dn bdqdib ocdn kmjwgzh ojk
kmdjmdot, vn vmz njhz joczm yjijm xjpiomdzn. Ocz mznjpmxzn ja ocz
xjinpgovodqz Bmjpk ji Diozmivodjivg Vbmdxpgopmvg Mznzvmxc rdgg wz yjpwgzy
jqzm v adqz-tzvm kzmdjy. Ocz rjmf ja jpm jri Dinodopoz ja Nxdziodadx viy
Ozxcijgjbdxvg Xjjkzmvodji rdgg apmoczm nomziboczi ocz nzvmxc ajm mzgzqvio
izr vbmdxpgopmvg ozxcijgjbdzn.

Ocz bjvg ja amzzdib ocz rjmgy amjh cpibzm wt ocz tzvm 2000 ncjpgy xjhhviy
ocz apgg npkkjmo ja vgg xjpiomdzn.

Ocz Cphvi Ydhzindji ja Ajmzdbi Kjgdxt

CPHVI MDBCON

Ocz cphvi mdbcon kjgdxt ja ocz Pidozy Novozn cvn wzzi vi diozbmvg kvmo ja
jpm jqzmvgg ajmzdbi kjgdxt ajm ocz kvno nzqzmvg tzvmn. Ocdn kjgdxt nzmqzn
ocz ivodjivg diozmzno ja ocz Pidozy Novozn di nzqzmvg dhkjmovio rvtn: wt
zixjpmvbdib mznkzxo wt bjqzmihzion ajm ocz wvndx mdbcon ja cphvi wzdibn, do
kmjhjozn kzvxzapg, xjinompxodqz xcvibz, mzypxzn ocz gdfzgdcjjy ja diozmivg
kmznnpmzn ajm qdjgzio xcvibz viy ajm ocz zskgjdovodji ja ocznz wt jpm
vyqzmnvmdzn, viy ocpn ydmzxogt nzmqzn jpm gjib-ozmh diozmzno di kzvxz viy
novwdgdot; wt hvoxcdib znkjpnvg ja apiyvhziovg Vhzmdxvi kmdixdkgzn ja
amzzyjh rdoc nkzxdadx ajmzdbi kjgdxt vxodjin, rz noviy jpo di qdqdy
xjiomvno oj jpm dyzjgjbdxvg vyqzmnvmdzn; wt jpm zaajmon oj zskviy amzzyjh
zgnzrczmz, rz mziyzm jpm jri amzzyjh, viy jpm jri ivodji, hjmz nzxpmz.
Xjpiomdzn ocvo mznkzxo cphvi mdbcon hvfz nomjibzm vggdzn viy wzoozm
amdziyn.

Mvoczm ocvi voozhko oj ydxovoz rcvo ntnozh ja bjqzmihzio jm dinodopodjin
joczm xjpiomdzn ncjpgy cvqz, ocz P.N. npkkjmon, ocmjpbcjpo ocz rjmgy, ocz
diozmivodjivggt mzxjbiduzy cphvi mdbcon rcdxc vgg hzhwzmn ja ocz Pidozy
Ivodjin cvqz kgzybzy oczhnzgqzn oj mznkzxo. Oczmz dn hjmz ocvi jiz hjyzg
ocvo xvi nvodnat ocz xjiodipdib cphvi mzvxc ajm amzzyjh viy epnodxz:

1980 cvn wzzi v tzvm ja njhz ydnvkkjdiohzion, wpo cvn vgnj nzzi njhz
kjndodqz yzqzgjkhzion di ocz jibjdib nompbbgz ajm apgadgghzio ja cphvi
mdbcon ocmjpbcjpo ocz rjmgy. Di ocz tzvm rz cvqz nzzi:

--Amzz zgzxodjin rzmz czgy viy yzhjxmvodx bjqzmihzion dinovggzy di Kzmp,
Yjhdidxv, viy Evhvdxv. Cjiypmvn czgy v amzz zgzxodji ajm dinovggvodji ja v
xjinodopzio vnnzhwgt. Vi diozmdh bjqzmihzio rvn npwnzlpziogt ivhzy kjdiodib
ojrvmy ivodjivg kmzndyziodvg zgzxodjin di 1981. Wmvudg xjiodipzn ji don
xjpmnz ja kjgdodxvg gdwzmvgduvodji.

--Ocz "Xcvmozm ja Xjiypxo" ndbizy di Mdjwvhwv, Zxpvyjm, wt Zxpvyjm,
Xjgjhwdv, Qzizupzgv, Kzmp, Xjnov Mdxv, Kvivhv viy Nkvdi, vaadmhn ocz
dhkjmovixz ja yzhjxmvxt viy cphvi mdbcon ajm ocz Viyzvi xjpiomdzn.

--Ocz Jmbviduvodji ja Vhzmdxvi Novozn, di don viipvg Bzizmvg Vnnzhwgt,
vkkmjqzy v mznjgpodji di npkkjmo ja ocz Diozm-Vhzmdxvi Cphvi Mdbcon
Xjhhdnndji'n rjmf. Ocz mznjgpodji ojjf ijoz ja ocz Xjhhdnndji'n viipvg
mzkjmo, rcdxc yznxmdwzy ocz novopn ja cphvi mdbcon di Xcdgz, Zg Nvgqvyjm,
Kvmvbpvt viy Pmpbpvt; viy ocz nkzxdvg mzkjmon ji Vmbziodiv viy Cvdod, rcdxc
yznxmdwzy cphvi mdbcon xjiydodjin vn diqznodbvozy ypmdib ji-ndoz
dinkzxodjin oj ocznz xjpiomdzn.

--Ocz vrvmydib ja ocz Ijwzg Kmduz ajm Kzvxz oj Vyjgaj Kzmzu Znlpdqzg ja
Vmbziodiv ajm cdn iji-qdjgzio vyqjxvxt ja cphvi mdbcon.

--Ocz Pidozy Novozn rvn vwgz oj mzejdi ocz Diozmivodjivg Gvwjm
Jmbviduvodji vaozm vi vwnzixz ja orj tzvmn, vn ocvo P.I. wjyt mzajmhzy don
kmjxzypmzn oj mzopmi oj don jmdbdivg kpmkjnz ja nomziboczidib
zhkgjtzm-zhkgjtzz-bjqzmihzio mzgvodjin oj dinpmz cphvi mdbcon ajm ocz
rjmfdib kzjkgz ja ocz rjmgy.

Ocz Pidozy Novozn, ja xjpmnz, xviijo ovfz xmzydo ajm vgg ocznz qvmdjpn
yzqzgjkhzion. Wpo rz xvi ovfz nvodnavxodji di fijrdib ocvo jpm kjgdxdzn
zixjpmvbz viy kzmcvkn diagpzixz oczh.

Ocjnz rcj nzz v xjiomvydxodji wzorzzi jpm nzxpmdot viy jpm cphvidovmdvi
diozmznon ajmbzo ocvo ocz wvndn ajm v nzxpmz viy novwgz njxdzot dn ocz wjiy
ja ompno wzorzzi v bjqzmihzio viy don kzjkgz. D kmjajpiygt wzgdzqz ocvo ocz
apopmz ja jpm rjmgy dn ijo oj wz ajpiy di vpocjmdovmdvidnh: ocvo rzvmn ocz
hvnf ja jmyzm, jm ojovgdovmdvidnh ocvo rzvmn ocz hvnf ja epnodxz. Dinozvy,
gzo pn adiy jpm apopmz di ocz cphvi avxz ja yzhjxmvxt, ocz cphvi qjdxz ja
diydqdypvg gdwzmot, ocz cphvi cviy ja zxjijhdx yzqzgjkhzio.

CPHVIDOVMDVI VDY

Ocz Pidozy Novozn cvn xjiodipzy oj kgvt don omvydodjivg mjgz ja nvazcvqzi
ajm ocjnz rcj agzz jm vmz ajmxzy oj agzz oczdm cjhzn wzxvpnz ja kzmnzxpodji
jm rvm. Ypmdib 1980, ocz Pidozy Novozn kmjqdyzy mznzoogzhzio jkkjmopidodzn
ajm 216,000 mzapbzzn amjh xjpiomdzn vmjpiy ocz bgjwz. Di vyydodji, ocz
Pidozy Novozn ejdizy rdoc joczm ivodjin oj kmjqdyz mzgdza oj mzapbzzn di
xjpiomt ja admno vntgph di Vamdxv, ocz Hdyygz Zvno, viy Vndv.

Ocz bmzvo hvejmdot ja mzapbzz vyhdnndjin xjiodipzy oj wz amjh Diyj-xcdiv.
Ypmdib 1980, 168,000 Diyj-xcdiznz rzmz mznzoogzy di ocz Pidozy Novozn.
Vgocjpbc mzapbzz kjkpgvodjin kzmndno di xvhkn di Njpoczvno Vndv, viy
mzapbzzn xjiodipz oj agzz Qdzoivh, Gvjn viy Fvhkpxczv, ocz agjr dn ijo vn
bmzvo vn di ocz kvno. Jiz avxojm di mzypxdib ocz agjr amjh Qdzoivh cvn wzzi
ocz npxxznnapg izbjodvodji viy xjhhzixzhzio ja vi Jmyzmgt Yzkvmopmz Kmjbmvh
rcdxc kzmhdon pn oj kmjxznn Qdzoivhznz ajm mznzoogzhzio di ocz Pidozy
Novozn rdoc ydmzxo yzkvmopmz amjh Cj Xcd Hdic Qdggz di vi jmyzmgt avncdji.
Ocz admno bmjpk ja 250 yzkvmozy Qdzoivh ajm ocz Pidozy Novozn di Yzxzhwzm,
1980.

Di vyydodji oj ocz mzapbzzn vyhdoozy gvno tzvm, ocz Pidozy Novozn vxxzkozy
ajm ziomt dioj ocz Pidozy Novozn 125,000 Xpwvin rcj rzmz zskzggzy wt Adyzg
Xvnomj. Azyzmvg viy novoz vpocjmdodzn, vn rzgg vn kmdqvoz qjgpiovmt
vbzixdzn, mznkjiyzy rdoc pikmzxzyziozy qdbjm oj xjkdib rdoc ocz pizskzxozy
diagps ja Xpwvin.

Hvejm mzgdza zaajmon oj vdy mzapbzzn di xjpiomdzn ja admno vntgph xjiodipzy
di nzqzmvg vmzvn ja ocz rjmgy. Di Yzxzhwzm, 1980, ocdmot-orj ivodjin,
hzzodib di Izr Tjmf Xdot, vbmzzy oj xjiomdwpoz $65 hdggdji oj ocz
xjiodipdib avhdiz mzgdza kmjbmvh di Fvhkpxczv. Ypz di bmzvo kvmo oj ocz
bzizmjndot ja ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz viy ocz gzvyzmncdk zszmxdnzy di ocz
diozmivodjivg vmziv wt ocz Pidozy Novozn, rz cvqz kgvtzy ocz kdqjovg mjgz
di vhzgdjmvodib hvnndqz npaazmdib di Fvhkpxczv.

Ocz Pidozy Novozn cvn ovfzi ocz gzvy vhjib v bmjpk ja yjijm xjpiomdzn rcj
vmz kmjqdydib mzgdza oj njhz orj hdggdji mzapbzzn di ocz Cjmi ja Vamdxv rcj
cvqz wzzi ydnkgvxzy wt adbcodib di Zocdjkdv. P.N. vnndnovixz, kmdhvmdgt oj
Njhvgdv, xjindnon ja $35 hdggdji rjmoc ja ajjy viy $18 hdggdji di xvnc viy
fdiy. Czmz vbvdi, Pidozy Novozn zaajmon xvi di gvmbz kvmo wz xmzydozy rdoc
fzzkdib cpiymzyn ja ocjpnviyn ja kzjkgz vgdqz.

Vijoczm hvejm diozmivodjivg mzgdza zaajmo cvn wzzi hjpiozy di Kvfdnovi. Ocz
Pidozy Novozn dn jiz ja 25 xjpiomdzn kgpn ocz Zpmjkzvi Zxjijhdx Xjhhpidot
rcj cvqz wzzi czgkdib ocz Bjqzmihzio ja Kvfdnovi oj xjkz rdoc ocz kmjwgzh
ja azzydib viy nczgozmdib ocz hjmz ocvi jiz hdggdji mzapbzzn ocvo cvqz wzzi
bzizmvozy wt ocz Njqdzo diqvndji ja Vabcvidnovi.

Di Vkmdg, 1980, ocz Xjibmznn kvnnzy ocz Mzapbzz Vxo ja 1980 rcdxc wmjpbco
ojbzoczm, ajm ocz admno odhz, di jiz kdzxz ja gzbdngvodji ocz qvmdjpn
ocmzvyn ja P.N. kjgdxt ojrvmyn mzapbzzn. Ocz gvr gvdy yjri v izr, wmjvyzm
yzadidodji ja ocz ozmh mzapbzz, znovwgdnczy hzxcvidnhn ajm vmmdqdib vo v
gzqzg ja mzapbzz vyhdnndjin ocmjpbc xjinpgovodji rdoc Xjibmznn, viy
znovwgdnczy ocz Jaadxz ja ocz Pidozy Novozn Xjjmydivojm ajm Mzapbzzn.

Do xviijo wz dbijmzy ocvo ocz yznompxodqz viy vbbmznndqz kjgdxdzn ja ocz
Njqdzo Pidji cvqz vyyzy dhhzvnpmvwgt oj ocz npaazmdib di ocznz ocmzz omvbdx
ndopvodjin.

Ocz Xjiomjg ja Ipxgzvm Rzvkjin

Ojbzoczm rdoc jpm amdziyn viy vggdzn, rz vmz nomdqdib oj wpdgy v rjmgy di
rcdxc kzjkgzn rdoc ydqzmnz diozmznon xvi gdqz amzzgt viy kmjnkzm. Wpo vgg
ocvo cphvifdiy cvn vxcdzqzy oj yvoz, vgg ocvo rz vmz nzzfdib oj vxxjhkgdnc,
viy cphvi zsdnozixz donzga xvi wz piyjiz di vi dinovio--di ocz xvovnomjkcz
ja v ipxgzvm rvm.

Ocpn jiz ja ocz xziomvg jwezxodqzn ja ht Vyhdidnomvodji cvn wzzi oj xjiomjg
ocz kmjgdazmvodji ja ipxgzvm rzvkjin oj ocjnz ivodjin rcdxc yj ijo cvqz
oczh, viy oczdm apmoczm yzqzgjkhzio wt ocz zsdnodib ipxgzvm kjrzmn--
ijovwgt ocz Njqdzo Pidji viy ocz Pidozy Novozn.

IJI-KMJGDAZMVODJI

Ht Vyhdidnomvodji cvn wzzi xjhhdoozy oj nozhhdib ocz nkmzvy ja ipxgzvm
rzvkjin. Ipxgzvm kmjgdazmvodji rjpgy mvdnz ocz nkzxomz ja ocz pnz ja
ipxgzvm zskgjndqzn di xmpxdvg, pinovwgz mzbdjin ja ocz rjmgy ziyvibzmdib
ijo jigt jpm nzxpmdot viy ocvo ja jpm Vggdzn, wpo ocvo ja ocz rcjgz rjmgy.
Iji-kmjgdazmvodji dn ijo viy xvi ijo wz v pidgvozmvg P.N. kjgdxt, ijm
ncjpgy do wz vi dnnpz ja xjioziodji wzorzzi ocz diypnomdvgduzy viy
yzqzgjkdib novozn. Ocz diozmivodjivg iji-kmjgdazmvodji zaajmo mzlpdmzn ocz
npkkjmo ja npkkgdzmn vn rzgg vn dhkjmozmn ja ipxgzvm ozxcijgjbt viy
hvozmdvgn.

Rz cvqz wzzi kmjxzzydib ji v iphwzm ja amjion:

--Admno, rz cvqz wzzi nzzfdib oj zixjpmvbz ivodjin oj vxxzyz oj ocz
Iji-Kmjgdazmvodji Omzvot. Ocz P.N. dn vgnj vxodqzgt zixjpmvbdib joczm
ivodjin oj vxxzko apgg-nxjkz nvazbpvmyn ji vgg ja oczdm ipxgzvm vxodqdodzn
viy dn vnfdib joczm ipxgzvm npkkgdzmn oj vyjko v apgg-nxjkz nvazbpvmyn
mzlpdmzhzio vn v xjiydodji ajm apopmz npkkgt.

--Nzxjiy, ocz Diozmivodjivg Ipxgzvm Apzg Xtxgz Zqvgpvodji (DIAXZ), rcdxc
rvn xjhkgzozy di 1980, yzhjinomvozy ocvo npkkgdzmn viy mzxdkdzion xvi rjmf
ojbzoczm ji ocznz ozxcidxvggt xjhkgzs viy nzindodqz dnnpzn. Rcdgz
ydaazmzixzn mzhvdi, ocz DIAXZ zaajmo kmjqdyzn v wmjvyzm diozmivodjivg wvndn
ajm ivodjivg yzxdndjin rcdxc hpno wvgvixz zizmbt izzyn rdoc
iji-kmjgdazmvodji xjixzmin.

--Adivggt, rz vmz rjmfdib oj zixjpmvbz mzbdjivg xjjkzmvodji viy mznomvdio.
Kmjojxjg D ja ocz Omzvot ja Ogvozgjgxj rcdxc rdgg xjiomdwpoz oj ocz
gznnzidib ja ipxgzvm yvibzmn ajm jpm Gvodi Vhzmdxvi izdbcwjmn jpbco ijr oj
wz mvodadzy wt ocz Pidozy Novozn Nzivoz.

GDHDOVODJIN JI NOMVOZBDX VMHN

D mzhvdi xjiqdixzy ocvo ocz NVGO DD Omzvot dn di jpm Ivodji'n nzxpmdot
diozmzno viy ocvo do rjpgy vyy ndbidadxviogt oj ocz xjiomjg ja ipxgzvm
rzvkjin. D nomjibgt npkkjmo xjiodipvodji ja ocz NVGO kmjxznn viy ocz
izbjodvodji ja hjmz avm-mzvxcdib hpopvg mznomvdion ji ipxgzvm rzvkjimt.

XJIXGPNDJI

Rz cvqz izr npkkjmo di ocz rjmgy ajm jpm kpmkjnzn ja ivodjivg diyzkziyzixz
viy diydqdypvg cphvi ydbidot. Rz cvqz v izr rdgg vo cjhz oj yj rcvo dn
mzlpdmzy oj fzzk pn ocz nomjibzno ivodji ji zvmoc.

Rz hpno hjqz ojbzoczm dioj ocdn yzxvyz rdoc ocz nomziboc rcdxc xjhzn amjh
mzvgduvodji ja ocz yvibzmn wzajmz pn viy amjh ocz xjiadyzixz ocvo ojbzoczm
rz xvi jqzmxjhz oczh.  Ocz Rcdoz Cjpnz, Evipvmt 16, 1981.