Rmlgefr G uylr rm cvykglc gl y zpmyb qclqc rfc qryrc md msp Ykcpgayl
Slgml--fmu uc ypc zsgjbgle y lcu dmslbyrgml dmp y ncyacdsj ylb y npmqncpmsq
umpjb.

Msp afgjbpcl ufm ugjj zc zmpl rfgq wcyp ugjj amkc md yec gl rfc 21qr
aclrspw. Ufyr iglb md qmagcrw, ufyr iglb md umpjb ypc uc zsgjbgle dmp rfck?
Ugjj uc mspqcjtcq zc yr ncyac? Ugjj msp afgjbpcl clhmw y zcrrcp osyjgrw md
jgdc? Ugjj y qrpmle ylb slgrcb Ykcpgay qrgjj zc y dmpac dmp dpccbmk ylb
npmqncpgrw ypmslb rfc umpjb?

Rmlgefr, rfcpc gq ctcpw qgel rfyr rfc qryrc md msp Slgml gq qmslb.

Msp camlmkw mddcpq epcyrcp npmqncpgrw dmp kmpc md msp ncmnjc rfyl ctcp
zcdmpc. Pcyj ncp ayngry glamkc ylb pcyj zsqglcqq npmdgrq fytc pgqcl
qszqrylrgyjjw gl rfc jyqr 2 wcypq. Dypk cvnmprq ypc qcrrgle yl yjj-rgkc
pcampb cyaf wcyp, ylb dypk glamkc jyqr wcyp, lcr dypk glamkc, uyq sn kmpc
rfyl 25 ncpaclr.

Msp jgzcprgcq ypc qcaspc. Msp kgjgrypw bcdclqcq ypc qrpmle ylb epmugle
qrpmlecp. Ylb kmpc gknmprylrjw, rmlgefr, Ykcpgay--msp zcjmtcb amslrpw--gq
yr ncyac.

Msp cypjgcqr lyrgmlyj amkkgrkclrq, kmbgdgcb ylb pcqfyncb zw qsaaccbgle
eclcpyrgmlq, fytc qcptcb sq ucjj. Zsr rfc npmzjckq rfyr uc dyac rmbyw ypc
bgddcpclr dpmk rfmqc rfyr amldpmlrcb cypjgcp eclcpyrgmlq md Ykcpgaylq. Rfcw
ypc kmpc qszrjc, kmpc amknjcv, ylb kmpc glrcppcjyrcb. Yr fmkc, uc ypc
pcamelgxgle ctcp kmpc ajcypjw rfyr emtcplkclr yjmlc ayllmr qmjtc rfcqc
npmzjckq. Ylb yzpmyb, dcu md rfck ayl zc qmjtcb zw rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq yjmlc.
Zsr Ykcpgaylq yq y slgrcb ncmnjc, umpigle ugrf msp yjjgcq ylb dpgclbq, fytc
lctcp zccl ydpygb rm dyac npmzjckq ylb rm qmjtc npmzjckq, cgrfcp fcpc mp
yzpmyb.

Rfc afyjjclec rm sq gq rm zsgjb y lcu ylb dgpkcp dmslbyrgml dmp rfc
dsrspc--dmp y qmslb camlmkw, dmp y kmpc cddcargtc emtcplkclr, dmp kmpc
nmjgrgayj rpsqr, ylb dmp y qryzjc ncyac--qm rfyr rfc Ykcpgay msp afgjbpcl
glfcpgr ugjj zc ctcl qrpmlecp ylb ctcl zcrrcp rfyl gr gq rmbyw.

Uc ayllmr pcqmpr rm qgknjgqrga mp cvrpckc qmjsrgmlq ufgaf qszqrgrsrc kwrfq
dmp amkkml qclqc.

Gl msp camlmkw, gr gq y kwrf rfyr uc ksqr afmmqc clbjcqqjw zcruccl
gldjyrgml ylb pcacqqgml. Rmecrfcp, uc zsgjb rfc dmslbyrgml dmp y qrpmle
camlmkw, ugrf jmucp gldjyrgml, ugrfmsr amlrpgtgle cgrfcp y pcacqqgml ugrf
grq fgef slcknjmwkclr mp slumpiyzjc, kylbyrmpw emtcplkclr amlrpmjq.

Gl msp emtcplkclr, gr gq y kwrf rfyr uc ksqr afmmqc zcruccl amknyqqgml ylb
amkncrclac. Rmecrfcp, uc zsgjb rfc dmslbyrgml dmp y emtcplkclr rfyr umpiq,
ylb umpiq dmp ncmnjc.

Gl msp pcjyrgmlq ugrf msp nmrclrgyj ybtcpqypgcq, gr gq y kwrf rfyr uc ksqr
afmmqc zcruccl amldpmlryrgml ylb ayngrsjyrgml. Rmecrfcp, uc zsgjb rfc
dmslbyrgml dmp y qryzjc umpjb md zmrf bgtcpqgrw ylb ncyac.

Rmecrfcp, uc'tc yjpcybw zcesl rm zsgjb rfc dmslbyrgml dmp amldgbclac gl msp
camlmkga qwqrck. Bspgle rfc jyqr 2 wcypq, gl zpglegle msp camlmkw msr md
rfc bccncqr pcacqqgml qglac rfc 1930'q, uc'tc apcyrcb 7,100,000 lcu hmzq.
Rfc slcknjmwkclr pyrc fyq emlc bmul 25 ncpaclr. Ylb lmu uc ksqr pcbmszjc
msp dgefr yeyglqr rfc ncpqgqrclr gldjyrgml rfyr fyq upyaicb msp amslrpw dmp
kmpc rfyl y bcaybc. Rfyr'q msp gknmprylr bmkcqrga gqqsc, ylb uc ksqr bm gr
rmecrfcp.

Uc ilmu rfyr gldjyrgml gq y zspbcl dmp yjj Ykcpgaylq, zsr gr'q y bgqyqrcp
dmp rfc nmmp, rfc qgai, ylb rfc mjb. Lm Ykcpgayl dykgjw qfmsjb zc dmpacb rm
afmmqc ykmle dmmb, uypkrf, fcyjrf aypc, mp bcaclr fmsqgle zcaysqc rfc amqr
md ylw md rfcqc zyqga lcacqqgrgcq fyq ajgkzcb msr md pcyaf.

Rfpcc kmlrfq yem, G msrjglcb rm rfc Lyrgml y zyjylacb ylrg-gldjyrgml
npmepyk rfyr amsnjcq pcqnmlqgzjc emtcplkclr pcqrpyglr ugrf pcqnmlqgzjc uyec
ylb npgac pcqrpyglr. Gr'q zyqcb snml kw ilmujcbec rfyr rfcpc gq y kmpc
nmucpdsj dmpac rfyl emtcplkclr amknsjqgml--rfc dmpac apcyrcb zw rfc
ammncpyrgtc cddmprq md kgjjgmlq md Ykcpgaylq umpigle rmuypb y amkkml emyj.

Zsqglcqq ylb jyzmp fytc zccl glapcyqglejw qsnnmprgtc. Gr'q gkncpyrgtc rfyr
uc gl emtcplkclr bm msp nypr. Uc ksqr qrmn cvacqqgtc emtcplkclr epmurf, ylb
uc ksqr amlrpmj emtcplkclr qnclbgle fyzgrq.

G'tc qclr rm rfgq Amlepcqq y qrpgleclr zsr y dygp zsbecr, mlc rfyr, qglac G
pyl dmp Npcqgbclr gl 1976, ugjj fytc asr rfc Dcbcpyj bcdgagr gl fyjd. Ylb
yq y ncpaclryec md msp epmqq lyrgmlyj npmbsar, rfc bcdgagr ugjj fytc
bpmnncb zw yjkmqr 75 ncpaclr.

Rfgq Amlepcqq fyb y emmb pcampb jyqr wcyp, ylb G lmu yqi rfc 96rf Amlepcqq
rm amlrglsc rfgq nyprlcpqfgn gl fmjbgle rfc jglc ml cvacqq Dcbcpyj
qnclbgle. Gr ugjj lmr zc cyqw. Zsr uc ksqr zc qrpmle, ylb uc ksqr zc
ncpqgqrclr.

Rfgq zsbecr gq y ajcyp kcqqyec rfyr, ugrf rfc fcjn md wms ylb rfc Ykcpgayl
ncmnjc, G yk bcrcpkglcb, yq Npcqgbclr, rm zpgle gldjyrgml slbcp amlrpmj.

Rfc 1980 zsbecr npmtgbcq clmsef qnclbgle pcqrpyglr rm zcegl sluglbgle
gldjyrgml, zsr clmsef qsnnmpr dmp msp amslrpw rm iccn Ykcpgayl umpicpq
npmbsargtc ylb rm clamspyec rfc gltcqrkclrq rfyr npmtgbc lcu hmzq. Uc ugjj
amlrglsc rm kmzgjgxc msp Lyrgml'q pcqmspacq rm pcbsac msp rpybc bcdgagr
qszqrylrgyjjw rfgq wcyp ylb rm kyglrygl rfc qrpclerf md rfc Ykcpgayl
bmjjyp.

Uc'tc bckmlqrpyrcb gl rfgq pcqrpyglcb zsbecr rfyr uc ayl zsgjb ml rfc eyglq
md rfc nyqr 2 wcypq rm npmtgbc ybbgrgmlyj qsnnmpr rm cbsayrc bgqybtylryecb
afgjbpcl, rm aypc dmp rfc cjbcpjw, rm npmtgbc lsrpgrgml ylb jceyj qcptgacq
dmp rfc nmmp, ylb rm qrpclerfcl rfc camlmkga zyqc md msp spzyl amkkslgrgcq
ylb, yjqm, msp pspyj ypcyq.

Rfgq wcyp, uc ugjj ryic msp dgpqr qrcnq rm bctcjmn y lyrgmlyj fcyjrf njyl.

Uc ksqr lctcp yaacnr y ncpkylclr epmsn md slcknjmwcb Ykcpgaylq, ugrf lm
fmnc ylb lm qryic gl zsgjbgle msp qmagcrw. Dmp rfmqc jcdr msr md rfc
camlmkw zcaysqc md bgqapgkglyrgml, y jyai md qigjjq, mp nmtcprw, uc ksqr
kyglrygl fgef jctcjq md rpyglgle, ylb uc ksqr amlrglsc rm npmtgbc hmzq.

Y pcqnmlqgzjc zsbecr gq lmr msp mljw ucynml rm amlrpmj gldjyrgml. Uc ksqr
yar lmu rm npmrcar yjj Ykcpgaylq dpmk fcyjrf aypc amqrq rfyr ypc pgqgle $1
kgjjgml ncp fmsp, 24 fmspq y byw, bmszjgle ctcpw 5 wcypq. Uc ksqr ryic
amlrpmj md rfc jypecqr amlrpgzsrmp rm rfyr gldjyrgml: qiwpmaicrgle fmqngryj
amqrq.

Rfcpc ugjj zc lm ajcypcp rcqr md rfc amkkgrkclr md rfgq Amlepcqq rm rfc
ylrg-gldjyrgml dgefr rfyl rfc jcegqjyrgml rfyr G ugjj qszkgr yeygl rfgq
wcyp rm fmjb bmul gldjyrgml gl fmqngryj aypc.

Mtcp rfc lcvr 5 wcypq, kw npmnmqyjq ugjj qytc Ykcpgaylq y rmryj md $60
zgjjgml, md ufgaf $25 zgjjgml ugjj zc qytgleq rm rfc Ykcpgayl ryvnywcp gl
rfc Dcbcpyj zsbecr grqcjd. Rfc Ykcpgayl ncmnjc fytc uygrcb jmle clmsef.
Rfgq wcyp uc ksqr yar ml fmqngryj amqr amlryglkclr.

Uc ksqr yjqm dgefr gldjyrgml zw gknpmtckclrq ylb zcrrcp cldmpackclr md msp
ylrgrpsqr jyuq ylb zw pcbsagle emtcplkclr mzqryajcq rm amkncrgrgml gl rfc
npgtyrc qcarmp.

Uc ksqr zcegl rm qapsrglgxc rfc mtcpyjj cddcar md pcesjyrgml gl msp
camlmkw. Rfpmsef bcpcesjyrgml md rfc ygpjglc glbsqrpw uc'tc glapcyqcb
npmdgrq, asr npgacq dmp yjj Ykcpgaylq, ylb zcesl--dmp mlc md rfc dcu rgkcq
gl rfc fgqrmpw md msp Lyrgml--rm yarsyjjw bgqkylrjc y kyhmp Dcbcpyj
zspcysapyaw. Rfgq wcyp, uc ksqr zcegl rfc cddmpr rm pcdmpk msp pcesjyrmpw
npmacqqcq dmp rfc pygjpmyb, zsq, ylb rfc rpsaigle glbsqrpgcq.

Ykcpgay fyq rfc epcyrcqr camlmkga qwqrck gl rfc umpjb. Jcr'q pcbsac
emtcplkclr glrcpdcpclac ylb egtc gr y afylac rm umpi.

G ayjj ml Amlepcqq rm ryic mrfcp ylrg-gldjyrgml yargml--rm cvnylb msp
cvnmprq rm npmrcar Ykcpgayl hmzq rfpcyrclcb zw sldygp rpybc, rm amlqcptc
clcpew, rm glapcyqc npmbsargml ylb rm qnccb bctcjmnkclr md qmjyp nmucp, ylb
rm pcyqqcqq msp Lyrgml'q rcaflmjmegayj qsncpgmpgrw. Ykcpgayl umpicpq ufm
cljgqr gl rfc dgefr yeyglqr gldjyrgml bcqcptc lmr hsqr msp epyrgrsbc, zsr
rfcw bcqcptc rfc npmrcargml md rfc pcyj uyec glqspylac npmnmqyj rfyr G fytc
yjpcybw kybc rm rfc Amlepcqq.

Rm zc qsaacqqdsj, uc ksqr afylec msp yrrgrsbcq yq ucjj yq msp nmjgagcq. Uc
ayllmr yddmpb rm jgtc zcwmlb msp kcylq. Uc ayllmr yddmpb rm apcyrc npmepykq
rfyr uc ayl lcgrfcp kylyec lmp dglylac, mp rm uyqrc msp lyrspyj pcqmspacq,
ylb uc ayllmr rmjcpyrc kgqkylyeckclr ylb dpysb. Yzmtc yjj, uc ksqr kccr rfc
afyjjclecq md gldjyrgml yq y slgrcb ncmnjc.

Ugrf rfc qsnnmpr md rfc Ykcpgayl ncmnjc, emtcplkclr gl pcaclr bcaybcq fyq
fcjncb rm bgqkylrjc pyagyj zyppgcpq, fyq npmtgbcb yqqgqrylac dmp rfc
hmzjcqq ylb rfc pcrgpcb, fyq dcb rfc fslepw, fyq npmrcarcb rfc qydcrw,
fcyjrf, ylb zypeyglgle pgefrq md Ykcpgayl umpicpq, ylb fyq fcjncb rm
npcqcptc msp lyrspyj fcpgryec.

Zsr gr'q lmr clmsef rm fytc apcyrcb y jmr md emtcplkclr npmepykq. Lmu uc
ksqr kyic rfc emmb npmepykq kmpc cddcargtc ylb gknpmtc mp uccb msr rfmqc
ufgaf ypc uyqrcdsj mp sllcacqqypw.

Ugrf rfc qsnnmpr md rfc Amlepcqq, uc'tc zcesl rm pcmpeylgxc ylb rm ecr
amlrpmj md rfc zspcysapyaw. Uc ypc pcdmpkgle rfc agtgj qcptgac qwqrck, qm
rfyr uc ayl pcamelgxc ylb pcuypb rfmqc ufm bm y emmb hmz ylb amppcar mp
pckmtc rfmqc ufm bm lmr.

Rfgq wcyp, uc ksqr cvrclb kyhmp pcmpeylgxyrgml cddmprq rm cbsayrgml, rm
camlmkga bctcjmnkclr, ylb rm rfc kylyeckclr md msp lyrspyj pcqmspacq. Uc
lccb rm clyar y qslqfglc [qslqcr] jyu rfyr ufcl emtcplkclr npmepykq fytc
msrjgtcb rfcgp tyjsc, rfcw ugjj ysrmkyrgayjjw zc rcpkglyrcb.

Rfcpc'q lm qsaf rfgle yq yl cddcargtc ylb y lmlamlrpmtcpqgyj pcmpeylgxyrgml
ylb pcdmpk. Zsr uc ilmu rfyr fmlcqr, cddcargtc emtcplkclr gq cqqclrgyj rm
pcqrmpc nszjga dygrf gl msp nszjga yargml.

Lmlc md sq ayl zc qyrgqdgcb ufcl rum-rfgpbq md rfc Ykcpgayl agrgxclq afmqc
lmr rm tmrc jyqr wcyp gl y lyrgmlyj cjcargml. Rmm kylw Ykcpgaylq dccj
nmucpjcqq yeyglqr rfc gldjsclac md npgtyrc jmzzwgle epmsnq ylb rfc
slzcjgctyzjc djmmb md npgtyrc ayknygel kmlcw ufgaf rfpcyrclq msp cjcarmpyj
npmacqq.

Rfgq wcyp, uc ksqr pceygl rfc nszjga'q dygrf zw pcosgpgle jgkgrcb dglylagyj
dslbq dpmk nszjga dslbq dmp amlepcqqgmlyj cjcargml ayknygelq. Fmsqc zgjj 1
npmtgbcq dmp rfgq nszjga dglylagle md ayknygelq. Ylb G jmmi dmpuypb ugrf y
epcyr bcyj md ylrgagnyrgml rm qgelgle gr yr yl cypjw byrc.

Y qrpmle camlmkw ylb yl cddcargtc emtcplkclr ugjj pcqrmpc amldgbclac gl
Ykcpgay. Zsr rfc nyrf md rfc dsrspc ksqr zc afyprcb gl ncyac. Uc ksqr
amlrglsc rm zsgjb y lcu ylb y dgpk dmslbyrgml dmp y qryzjc umpjb
amkkslgrw.

Uc ypc zsgjbgle rfyr lcu dmslbyrgml dpmk y nmqgrgml md lyrgmlyj
qrpclerf--rfc qrpclerf md msp mul bcdclqcq, rfc qrpclerf md msp dpgclbqfgnq
ugrf mrfcp lyrgmlq, ylb md msp mjbcqr Ykcpgayl gbcyjq.

Ykcpgay'q kgjgrypw nmucp gq y kyhmp dmpac dmp qcaspgrw ylb qryzgjgrw gl rfc
umpjb. Uc ksqr kyglrygl msp qrpyrcega aynyzgjgrw ylb amlrglsc rfc npmepcqq
md rfc jyqr 2 wcypq ugrf msp LYRM Yjjgcq, ugrf ufmk uc fytc glapcyqcb msp
pcybglcqq, kmbcplgxcb msp cosgnkclr, ylb qrpclerfclcb msp bcdclqc dmpacq gl
Cspmnc. G spec wms rm qsnnmpr rfc qrpmle bcdclqc zsbecr ufgaf G fytc
npmnmqcb rm rfc Amlepcqq.

Zsr msp lyrgmlyj qcaspgrw gl rfgq amknjgayrcb yec pcosgpcq kmpc rfyl hsqr
kgjgrypw kgefr. Gl jcqq rfyl y jgdcrgkc, umpjb nmnsjyrgml fyq kmpc rfyl
bmszjcb, amjmlgyj ckngpcq fytc bgqynncypcb, ylb y fslbpcb lcu lyrgmlq fytc
zccl zmpl, ylb kgepyrgml rm rfc umpjb'q agrgcq fytc yjj yuyiclcb lcu
wcyplgleq dmp camlmkga hsqrgac ylb fskyl pgefrq ykmle ncmnjc ctcpwufcpc.

Rfgq bckylb dmp hsqrgac ylb fskyl pgefrq gq y uytc md rfc dsrspc. Gl qsaf y
umpjb, rfc afmgac gq lmr ufgaf qsncp nmucp ugjj bmkglyrc rfc umpjb. Lmlc
ayl ylb lmlc ugjj. Rfc afmgac glqrcyb gq zcruccl y umpjb md ylypafw ylb
bcqrpsargml, mp y umpjb md ammncpyrgml ylb ncyac.

Gl qsaf y umpjb, uc qcci lmr rm qrgdjc glctgryzjc afylec, zsr rm gldjsclac
grq amspqc gl fcjndsj ylb amlqrpsargtc uywq rfyr clfylac msp tyjscq, msp
lyrgmlyj glrcpcqrq, ylb rfc aysqc md ncyac.

Rmucpgle mtcp rfgq tmjyrgjc, afylegle umpjb, jgic y rfslbcpajmsb ml y
qskkcp byw, jmmkq rfc yucqmkc nmucp md lsajcyp ucynmlq.

Uc ugjj amlrglsc rm fcjn qfync rfc dmpacq md afylec, rm ylrgagnyrc ckcpegle
npmzjckq md lsajcyp npmjgdcpyrgml ylb amltclrgmlyj ypkq qyjcq, ylb rm sqc
msp epcyr qrpclerf nyprq md rfc umpjb zcdmpc rfcw cpsnr ylb qnpcyb.

Uc fytc lm bcqgpc rm zc rfc umpjb'q nmjgackyl. Zsr Ykcpgay bmcq uylr rm zc
rfc umpjb'q ncyackyicp.

Uc ypc zsgjbgle rfc dmslbyrgml dmp rpsjw ejmzyj ammncpyrgml, lmr mljw ugrf
Ucqrcpl ylb glbsqrpgyjgxcb lyrgmlq zsr ugrf rfc bctcjmngle amslrpgcq yq
ucjj. Msp rgcq ugrf Hynyl ylb msp Cspmncyl yjjgcq ypc qrpmlecp rfyl ctcp,
ylb qm ypc msp dpgclbjw pcjyrgmlq ugrf rfc ncmnjc md Jyrgl Ykcpgay, Ydpgay,
ylb rfc Ucqrcpl Nyagdga ylb Yqgy.

Uc'tc uml lcu pcqncar gl rfgq fckgqnfcpc ugrf rfc Nylyky Aylyj rpcyrgcq.
Uc'tc eyglcb lcu rpsqr ugrf rfc bctcjmngle umpjb rfpmsef msp mnnmqgrgml rm
pyagqk, msp amkkgrkclr rm fskyl pgefrq, ylb msp qsnnmpr dmp kyhmpgrw psjc
gl Ydpgay.

Rfc ksjrgjyrcpyj rpybc lcemrgyrgmlq ypc lmu pcyafgle y qsaacqqdsj
amlajsqgml, ylb amlepcqqgmlyj ynnpmtyj gq cqqclrgyj rm rfc camlmkga
ucjj-zcgle md msp mul amslrpw ylb md rfc umpjb. Rfgq ugjj zc mlc md msp rmn
npgmpgrgcq gl 1979.

Uc ypc clrcpgle y fmncdsj cpy gl msp pcjyrgmlq ugrf mlc-dmsprf md rfc
umpjb'q ncmnjc ufm jgtc gl Afgly. Rfc npcqclac md Tgac Npckgcp Bcle
Vgymngle lcvr ucci ugjj fcjn rm glysespyrc rfyr lcu cpy. Ylb ugrf npmknr
amlepcqqgmlyj yargml ml ysrfmpgxgle jcegqjyrgml, uc ugjj amlrglsc msp
amkkgrkclr rm y npmqncpmsq, ncyacdsj, ylb qcaspc jgdc dmp rfc ncmnjc md
Ryguyl.

G'k epyrcdsj rfyr gl rfc nyqr wcyp, yq gl rfc wcyp zcdmpc, lm Ykcpgayl fyq
bgcb gl amkzyr ylwufcpc gl rfc umpjb. Ylb gl Gpyl, Lgaypyesy, Awnpsq,
Lykgzgy, ylb Pfmbcqgy, msp amslrpw gq umpigle dmp ncyacdsj qmjsrgmlq rm
bylecpmsq amldjgarq.

Gl rfc Kgbbjc Cyqr, slbcp rfc kmqr bgddgasjr agpaskqrylacq, uc fytc qmsefr
rm fcjn ylagclr clckgcq jyw yqgbc bccn-qcyrcb bgddcpclacq rfyr fytc
npmbsacb dmsp zgrrcp uypq gl msp jgdcrgkc.

Msp dgpk amkkgrkclr rm Gqpycj'q qsptgtyj ylb qcaspgrw gq pmmrcb gl msp
bccncqr amltgargmlq ylb gl msp ilmujcbec md rfc qrpyrcega gknmprylac rm msp
mul Lyrgml md y qryzjc Kgbbjc Cyqr. Rm npmkmrc ncyac ylb pcamlagjgyrgml gl
rfc pcegml, uc ksqr pcrygl rfc rpsqr ylb rfc amldgbclac zmrf md Gqpycj ylb
yjqm md rfc Ypyz lyrgmlq rfyr ypc qglacpcjw qcypafgle dmp ncyac.

G yk bcrcpkglcb, yq Npcqgbclr, rm sqc rfc dsjj, zclcdgagyj gldjsclac md msp
amslrpw qm rfyr rfc npcagmsq mnnmprslgrw dmp jyqrgle ncyac zcruccl Gqpycj
ylb Cewnr ugjj lmr zc jmqr.

Rfc lcu dmslbyrgml md glrcplyrgmlyj ammncpyrgml rfyr uc qcci cvajsbcq lm
lyrgml. Ammncpyrgml ugrf rfc Qmtgcr Slgml qcptcq rfc aysqc md ncyac, dmp gl
rfgq lsajcyp yec, umpjb ncyac ksqr glajsbc ncyac zcruccl rfc qsncp
nmucpq--ylb gr ksqr kcyl rfc amlrpmj md lsajcyp ypkq.

Rcl wcypq yem, rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ylb rfc Qmtgcr Slgml kybc rfc fgqrmpga
bcagqgml rm mncl rfc qrpyrcega ypkq jgkgryrgmlq ryjiq, mp QYJR. Rfc nspnmqc
md QYJR, rfcl yq lmu, gq lmr rm eygl y slgjyrcpyj ybtylryec dmp cgrfcp
lyrgml, zsr rm npmrcar rfc qcaspgrw md zmrf lyrgmlq, rm pctcpqc rfc amqrjw
ylb bylecpmsq kmkclrsk md rfc lsajcyp ypkq pyac, rm npcqcptc y qryzjc
zyjylac md lsajcyp dmpacq, ylb rm bckmlqrpyrc rm y amlacplcb umpjb rfyr uc
ypc bcrcpkglcb rm fcjn npcqcptc rfc ncyac.

Rfc dgpqr QYJR yepcckclr uyq amlajsbcb gl 1972. Ylb qglac rfcl, bspgle 6
wcypq md lcemrgyrgml zw zmrf Pcnszjgayl ylb Bckmapyrga jcybcpq, lcypjw yjj
gqqscq md QYJR GG fytc zccl pcqmjtcb. Gd rfc Qmtgcr Slgml amlrglscq rm
lcemrgyrc gl emmb dygrf, y pcqnmlqgzjc QYJR yepcckclr ugjj zc pcyafcb.

Gr'q gknmprylr rfyr rfc Ykcpgayl ncmnjc slbcpqrylb rfc lyrspc md rfc QYJR
npmacqq.

QYJR GG gq lmr zyqcb ml qclrgkclr; gr'q zyqcb ml qcjd-glrcpcqr--md rfc
Slgrcb Qryrcq ylb md rfc Qmtgcr Slgml. Zmrf lyrgmlq qfypc y nmucpdsj amkkml
glrcpcqr gl pcbsagle rfc rfpcyr md y lsajcyp uyp. G ugjj qgel lm yepcckclr
ufgaf bmcq lmr clfylac msp lyrgmlyj qcaspgrw.

QYJR GG bmcq lmr pcjw ml rpsqr; gr ugjj zc tcpgdgyzjc. Uc fytc tcpw
qmnfgqrgayrcb, npmtcl kcylq, glajsbgle msp qyrcjjgrcq, rm bcrcpkglc dmp
mspqcjtcq ufcrfcp mp lmr rfc Qmtgcr Slgml gq kccrgle grq rpcyrw
mzjgeyrgmlq. G ugjj qgel lm yepcckclr ufgaf ayllmr zc tcpgdgcb.

Rfc Ykcpgayl lsajcyp bcrcppclr ugjj pckygl qrpmle ydrcp QYJR GG. Dmp
cvyknjc, hsqr mlc md msp pcjyrgtcjw gltsjlcpyzjc Nmqcgbml
qszkypglcq--amknpgqgle jcqq rfyl 2 ncpaclr md msp rmryj lsajcyp dmpac md
qszkypglcq, ygpapydr, ylb jylb-zyqcb kgqqgjcq--ayppgcq clmsef uypfcybq rm
bcqrpmw ctcpw jypec- ylb kcbgsk-qgxcb agrw gl rfc Qmtgcr Slgml. Msp
bcrcppclr gq mtcpufcjkgle, ylb G ugjj qgel lm yepcckclr sljcqq msp bcrcppclr
dmpac ugjj pckygl mtcpufcjkgle.

Y QYJR yepcckclr, md amspqc, ayllmr qszqrgrsrc dmp ugqc bgnjmkyaw mp y
qrpmle bcdclqc, lmp ugjj gr clb rfc bylecp md lsajcyp uyp. Zsr gr ugjj
acprygljw pcbsac rfyr bylecp. Gr ugjj qrpclerfcl msp cddmprq rm zyl lsajcyp
rcqrq ylb rm qrmn rfc qnpcyb md yrmkga ucynmlq rm mrfcp lyrgmlq. Ylb gr ayl
zcegl rfc npmacqq md lcemrgyrgle lcu yepcckclrq ufgaf ugjj dsprfcp jgkgr
lsajcyp ypkq.

Rfc nyrf md ypkq amlrpmj, zyaicb zw y qrpmle bcdclqc, rfc nyrf msp Lyrgml
ylb ctcpw Npcqgbclr fyq uyjicb dmp 30 wcypq, ayl jcyb rm y umpjb md jyu ylb
md glrcplyrgmlyj lcemrgyrgml ylb amlqsjryrgml gl ufgaf yjj ncmnjcq kgefr
jgtc gl ncyac. Gl rfgq wcyp 1979, lmrfgle gq kmpc gknmprylr rfyl rfyr rfc
Amlepcqq ylb rfc ncmnjc md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq pcqmjtc rm amlrglsc ugrf kc ml
rfyr nyrf md lsajcyp ypkq amlrpmj ylb umpjb ncyac. Rfgq gq nypykmslr.

G'tc msrjglcb qmkc md rfc afylecq rfyr fytc rpylqdmpkcb rfc umpjb ylb ufgaf
ypc amlrglsgle yq uc kccr fcpc rmlgefr. Zsr uc gl Ykcpgay lccb lmr dcyp
afylec. Rfc tyjscq ml ufgaf msp Lyrgml uyq dmslbcb: glbgtgbsyj jgzcprw,
qcjd-bcrcpkglyrgml, rfc nmrclrgyj dmp fskyl dsjdgjjkclr gl dpccbmk, yjj md
rfcqc clbspc. Uc dglb rfcqc bckmapyrga npglagnjcq npygqcb, ctcl gl zmmiq
qkseejcb msr md rmryjgrypgyl lyrgmlq ylb ml uyjjnmqrcpq gl jylbq ufgaf uc
rfmsefr ucpc ajmqcb rm msp gldjsclac. Msp amslrpw fyq pceyglcb grq qncagyj
njyac md jcybcpqfgn gl rfc umpjbugbc qrpseejc dmp fskyl pgefrq. Ylb rfyr gq
y amkkgrkclr rfyr uc ksqr iccn yr fmkc, yq ucjj yq yzpmyb.

Rfc agtgj pgefrq pctmjsrgml dpccb yjj Ykcpgaylq, zjyai ylb ufgrc, zsr grq
dsjj npmkgqc qrgjj pckyglq slpcyjgxcb. G ugjj amlrglsc rm umpi ugrf yjj kw
qrpclerf dmp cosyj mnnmprslgrw dmp yjj Ykcpgaylq--ylb dmp yddgpkyrgtc
yargml dmp rfmqc ufm ayppw rfc cvrpy zspbcl md nyqr bclgyj md cosyj
mnnmprslgrw.

Uc pckygl amkkgrrcb rm gknpmtgle msp jyzmp jyuq rm zcrrcp npmrcar rfc
pgefrq md Ykcpgayl umpicpq. Ylb msp Lyrgml ksqr kyic gr ajcyp rfyr rfc
jceyj pgefrq md umkcl yq agrgxclq ypc esypylrccb slbcp rfc jyuq md msp jylb
zw pyrgdwgle rfc cosyj pgefrq ykclbkclr.

Yq jmle yq G'k Npcqgbclr, yr fmkc ylb ypmslb rfc umpjb Ykcpgay'q cvyknjcq
ylb Ykcpgay'q gldjsclac ugjj zc kypqfyjcb rm ybtylac rfc aysqc md fskyl
pgefrq.

Rm cqryzjgqf rfmqc tyjscq, rum aclrspgcq yem y zmjb eclcpyrgml md Ykcpgaylq
pgqicb rfcgp npmncprw, rfcgp nmqgrgml, ylb jgdc grqcjd. Uc ypc rfcgp fcgpq,
ylb rfcw ypc qclbgle sq y kcqqyec yapmqq rfc aclrspgcq. Rfc umpbq rfcw kybc
qm tgtgb ypc lmu epmugle dyglrjw glbgqrglar, zcaysqc rfcw ypc lmr fcypb
mdrcl clmsef. Rfcw ypc umpbq jgic "hsqrgac," "cosyjgrw," "slgrw," "rpsrf,"
"qyapgdgac," "jgzcprw," "dygrf," ylb "jmtc."

Rfcqc umpbq pckglb sq rfyr rfc bsrw md msp eclcpyrgml md Ykcpgaylq gq rm
pclcu msp Lyrgml'q dygrf, lmr dmasqcb hsqr yeyglqr dmpcgel rfpcyrq zsr
yeyglqr rfc rfpcyrq md qcjdgqflcqq, awlgagqk, ylb ynyrfw.

Rfc lcu dmslbyrgml G'tc bgqasqqcb rmlgefr ayl fcjn sq zsgjb y lyrgml ylb y
umpjb ufcpc ctcpw afgjb gq lsprspcb ylb ayl jmmi rm rfc dsrspc ugrf fmnc,
ufcpc rfc pcqmspacq lmu uyqrcb ml uyp ayl zc rsplcb rmuypbq kccrgle fskyl
lccbq, ufcpc yjj ncmnjc fytc clmsef rm cyr, y bcaclr fmkc, ylb npmrcargml
yeyglqr bgqcyqc.

Gr ayl fcjn sq zsgjb y lyrgml ylb y umpjb ufcpc yjj ncmnjc ypc dpcc rm qcci
rfc rpsrf ylb rm ybb rm fskyl slbcpqrylbgle, qm rfyr yjj md sq kyw jgtc msp
jgtcq gl ncyac.

Rmlgefr, G yqi wms, rfc Kckzcpq md rfc Amlepcqq, rm hmgl kc gl zsgjbgle
rfyr lcu dmslbyrgml, y zcrrcp dmslbyrgml, dmp msp zcjmtcb amslrpw ylb msp
umpjb.

Rfyli wms tcpw ksaf.