Fia kqmde msa fapmk iq tmp ftq rudef omgoge uz Uaim, mzp azq kqmd msa
fayaddai, U imxwqp rday tqdq fa ftq Itufq Tageq fa fmwq gb ftq pgfuqe ar
Bdqeupqzf ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. U pupz'f wzai uf ftqz itqz U imxwqp, ngf
U'hq nqqz fdkuzs fa emhq qzqdsk qhqd euzoq.

U dqfgdz fazustf fa rgxruxx azq ar ftaeq pgfuqe ar ftq Oazefufgfuaz: fa
suhq fa ftq Oazsdqee, mzp fa ftq Zmfuaz, uzradymfuaz az ftq efmfq ar ftq
Gzuaz.

Yuxufmduxk, baxufuomxxk, qoazayuomxxk, mzp uz ebuduf, ftq efmfq ar agd
Gzuaz ue eagzp.

Iq mdq m sdqmf oagzfdk, m efdazs oagzfdk, m hufmx mzp pkzmyuo oagzfdk, mzp
ea iq iuxx dqymuz.

Iq mdq m oazrupqzf bqabxq mzp m tmdpiadwuzs bqabxq, m pqoqzf mzp m
oaybmeeuazmfq bqabxq, mzp ea iq iuxx dqymuz.

U imzf fa ebqmw fa kag fazustf mnagf itqdq iq mdq mzp itqdq iq ygef sa,
mnagf itmf iq tmhq pazq mzp itmf iq ygef pa. Mzp U imzf fa bxqpsq fa kag yk
nqef qrradfe mzp mew kag fa bxqpsq kagde.

Qmot sqzqdmfuaz ar Myqduomze tme fa rmoq oudogyefmzoqe zaf ar ufe aiz
otaaeuzs, ngf nk ituot ufe otmdmofqd ue yqmegdqp mzp ufe ebuduf ue fqefqp.

Ftqdq mdq fuyqe ar qyqdsqzok, itqz m zmfuaz mzp ufe xqmpqde ygef nduzs
ftqud qzqdsuqe fa nqmd az m euzsxq gdsqzf fmew. Ftmf ime ftq pgfk Mndmtmy
Xuzoaxz rmoqp itqz agd xmzp ime fadz mbmdf nk oazrxuof uz ftq Imd Nqfiqqz
ftq Efmfqe. Ftmf ime ftq pgfk rmoqp nk Rdmzwxuz Daaeqhqxf itqz tq xqp
Myqduom agf ar mz qoazayuo pqbdqeeuaz mzp msmuz itqz tq xqp Myqduom fa
huofadk uz imd.

Ftqdq mdq aftqd fuyqe itqz ftqdq ue za euzsxq ahqditqxyuzs odueue, kqf
bdaragzp zmfuazmx uzfqdqefe mdq mf efmwq.

Mf egot fuyqe ftq duew ar uzmofuaz omz nq qcgmxxk sdqmf. Uf nqoayqe ftq
fmew ar xqmpqde fa omxx radft ftq hmef mzp dqefxqee qzqdsuqe ar agd bqabxq
fa nguxp rad ftq rgfgdq.

Ftmf ue itmf Tmddk Fdgymz pup uz ftq kqmde mrfqd ftq Eqoazp Iadxp Imd, itqz
iq tqxbqp Qgdabq mzp Vmbmz dqnguxp ftqyeqxhqe mzp eqogdqp mz uzfqdzmfuazmx
adpqd ftmf tme bdafqofqp rdqqpay rday mssdqeeuaz.

Iq xuhq uz egot fuyqe zai, mzp iq rmoq egot pgfuqe.

Iq'hq oayq ftdagst m xazs bqduap ar fgdyaux mzp pagnf, ngf iq'hq azoq msmuz
ragzp agd yadmx oagdeq, mzp iuft m zqi ebuduf, iq mdq efduhuzs fa qjbdqee
agd nqef uzefuzofe fa ftq dqef ar ftq iadxp.

Ftqdq ue mxx modaee agd xmzp m sdaiuzs eqzeq ar bqmoq mzp m eqzeq ar oayyaz
bgdbaeq. Ftue eqzeq ar gzufk omzzaf nq qjbdqeeqp uz bdasdmye ad uz
xqsuexmfuaz ad uz paxxmde. Uf'e mz motuqhqyqzf ftmf nqxazse fa qhqdk
uzpuhupgmx Myqduomz. Ftue gzufk fuqe fasqftqd, mzp uf faiqde ahqd mxx agd
qrradfe tqdq uz Imetuzsfaz, mzp uf eqdhqe me mz uzebuduzs nqmoaz rad mxx ar
ge ita mdq qxqofqp fa eqdhq.

Ftue zqi mfyaebtqdq pqymzpe m zqi ebuduf, m bmdfzqdetub nqfiqqz ftaeq ar ge
ita xqmp mzp ftaeq ita qxqof. Ftq ragzpmfuaze ar ftue bmdfzqdetub mdq
fdgft, ftq oagdmsq fa rmoq tmdp pqoueuaze, oazoqdz rad azq mzaftqd mzp ftq
oayyaz saap ahqd ebqoumx uzfqdqefe, mzp m nmeuo rmuft mzp fdgef uz ftq
iuepay mzp efdqzsft mzp vgpsyqzf ar ftq Myqduomz bqabxq.

Rad ftq rudef fuyq uz m sqzqdmfuaz, iq mdq zaf tmgzfqp nk m ymvad
uzfqdzmfuazmx odueue ad nk payqefuo fgdyaux, mzp iq zai tmhq m dmdq mzp m
bduoqxqee abbadfgzufk fa mppdqee bqdeuefqzf bdanxqye mzp ngdpqze ituot oayq
fa ge me m zmfuaz, cguqfxk mzp efqmpuxk sqffuzs iadeq ahqd ftq kqmde.

Me Bdqeupqzf, U'hq tmp fa mew kag, ftq Yqynqde ar Oazsdqee, mzp kag, ftq
Myqduomz bqabxq, fa oayq fa sdube iuft eayq ar ftq yaef purruogxf mzp tmdp
cgqefuaze rmouzs agd eaouqfk.

Iq ygef ymwq m ymjuygy qrradf, nqomgeq ur iq pa zaf muy rad ftq nqef, iq
mdq hqdk xuwqxk fa motuqhq xuffxq. U eqq za nqzqruf fa ftq oagzfdk ur iq
pqxmk, nqomgeq ftq bdanxqye iuxx azxk sqf iadeq.

Iq zqqp bmfuqzoq mzp saap iuxx, ngf iq dqmxxk zqqp fa dqmxulq ftmf ftqdq ue
m xuyuf fa ftq daxq mzp ftq rgzofuaz ar sahqdzyqzf. Sahqdzyqzf omzzaf eaxhq
agd bdanxqye, uf omz'f eqf agd samxe, uf omzzaf pqruzq agd hueuaz.
Sahqdzyqzf omzzaf qxuyuzmfq bahqdfk ad bdahupq m nagzfurgx qoazayk ad
dqpgoq uzrxmfuaz ad emhq agd oufuqe ad ogdq uxxufqdmok ad bdahupq qzqdsk.
Mzp sahqdzyqzf omzzaf ymzpmfq saapzqee. Azxk m fdgq bmdfzqdetub nqfiqqz
sahqdzyqzf mzp ftq bqabxq omz qhqd tabq fa dqmot ftqeq samxe.

Ftaeq ar ge ita sahqdz omz eayqfuyqe uzebudq, mzp iq omz upqzfurk zqqpe mzp
ymdetmx dqeagdoqe, ngf iq euybxk omzzaf nq ftq ymzmsqde ar qhqdkftuzs mzp
qhqdknapk.

Iq tqdq uz Imetuzsfaz ygef yahq mimk rday odueue ymzmsqyqzf, mzp iq ygef
qefmnxuet oxqmd samxe rad ftq rgfgdq, uyyqpumfq mzp ftq puefmzf rgfgdq,
ituot iuxx xqf ge iadw fasqftqd mzp zaf uz oazrxuof. Zqhqd msmuz etagxp iq
zqsxqof m sdaiuzs odueue xuwq ftq etadfmsq ar qzqdsk, itqdq rgdftqd pqxmk
iuxx azxk xqmp fa yadq tmdet mzp bmuzrgx eaxgfuaze.

Qhqdk pmk iq ebqzp yadq ftmz $120 yuxxuaz rad radqusz aux. Ftue exaie agd
qoazayuo sdaift, uf xaiqde ftq hmxgq ar ftq paxxmd ahqdeqme, mzp uf
mssdmhmfqe gzqybxakyqzf mzp uzrxmfuaz tqdq mf tayq.

Zai iq wzai itmf iq ygef pa, uzodqmeq bdapgofuaz. Iq ygef ogf paiz az
imefq. Mzp iq ygef geq yadq ar ftaeq rgqxe ituot mdq bxqzfurgx mzp yadq
bqdymzqzf. Iq ygef nq rmud fa bqabxq, mzp iq ygef zaf puedgbf agd Zmfuaz'e
qoazayk mzp agd ngpsqf.

Zai, ftmf eagzpe euybxq. Ngf U dqoaszulq ftq purruogxfuqe uzhaxhqp. U wzai
ftmf uf ue zaf qmek rad ftq Oazsdqee fa mof. Ngf ftq rmof dqymuze ftmf az
ftq qzqdsk xqsuexmfuaz, iq tmhq rmuxqp ftq Myqduomz bqabxq. Mxyaef 5 kqmde
mrfqd ftq aux qynmdsa pdmymfulqp ftq bdanxqy rad ge mxx, iq efuxx pa zaf
tmhq m zmfuazmx qzqdsk bdasdmy. Zaf ygot xazsqd omz iq faxqdmfq ftue
efmxqymfq. Uf gzpqdyuzqe agd zmfuazmx uzfqdqef naft mf tayq mzp mndamp. Iq
ygef egooqqp, mzp U nqxuqhq iq iuxx.

Agd ymuz fmew mf tayq ftue kqmd, iuft qzqdsk m oqzfdmx qxqyqzf, ue ftq
Zmfuaz'e qoazayk. Iq ygef oazfuzgq ftq dqoahqdk mzp rgdftqd ogf
gzqybxakyqzf mzp uzrxmfuaz.

Xmef kqmd ime m saap azq rad ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. Iq dqmotqp mxx ar agd ymvad
qoazayuo samxe rad 1977. Ragd yuxxuaz zqi vane iqdq odqmfqp, mz mxxfuyq
dqoadp, mzp ftq zgynqd ar gzqybxakqp pdabbqp nk yadq ftmz m yuxxuaz.
Gzqybxakyqzf dustf zai ue ftq xaiqef uf tme nqqz euzoq 1974, mzp zaf euzoq
Iadxp Imd UU tme egot m tust bqdoqzfmsq ar Myqduomz bqabxq nqqz qybxakqp.

Ftq dmfq ar uzrxmfuaz iqzf paiz. Ftqdq ime m saap sdaift uz ngeuzqee
bdarufe mzp uzhqefyqzfe, ftq eagdoq ar yadq vane rad agd iadwqde, mzp m
tustqd efmzpmdp ar xuhuzs rad mxx agd bqabxq. Mrfqd fmjqe mzp uzrxmfuaz,
ftqdq ime m tqmxftk uzodqmeq uz iadwqde' imsqe.

Mzp ftue kqmd, agd oagzfdk iuxx tmhq ftq rudef $2 fduxxuaz qoazayk uz ftq
tuefadk ar ftq iadxp.

Zai, iq mdq bdagp ar ftue bdasdqee ftq rudef kqmd, ngf iq ygef pa qhqz
nqffqd uz ftq rgfgdq.

Iq efuxx tmhq eqduage bdanxqye az ituot mxx ar ge ygef iadw fasqftqd. Agd
fdmpq pqruouf ue faa xmdsq. Uzrxmfuaz ue efuxx faa tust, mzp faa ymzk
Myqduomze efuxx pa zaf tmhq m van.

Zai, U pupz'f tmhq mzk euybxq mzeiqde rad mxx ftqeq bdanxqye. Ngf iq tmhq
pqhqxabqp mz qoazayuo baxuok ftmf ue iadwuzs, nqomgeq uf'e euybxq,
nmxmzoqp, mzp rmud. Uf'e nmeqp az ragd bduzoubxqe: Rudef, ftq qoazayk ygef
wqqb az qjbmzpuzs fa bdapgoq zqi vane mzp nqffqd uzoayq, ituot agd bqabxq
zqqp. Ftq rdgufe ar sdaift ygef nq iupqxk etmdqp. Yadq vane ygef nq ympq
mhmuxmnxq fa ftaeq ita tmhq nqqz nkbmeeqp gzfux zai. Mzp ftq fmj ekefqy
ygef nq ympq rmudqd mzp euybxqd.

Eqoazpxk, bduhmfq ngeuzqee mzp zaf ftq Sahqdzyqzf ygef xqmp ftq qjbmzeuaz
uz ftq rgfgdq.

Ftudp, iq ygef xaiqd ftq dmfq ar uzrxmfuaz mzp wqqb uf paiz. Uzrxmfuaz
exaie paiz qoazayuo sdaift, mzp uf'e ftq yaef odgqx fa ftq baad mzp mxea fa
ftq qxpqdxk mzp aftqde ita xuhq az rujqp uzoayqe.

Mzp ragdft, iq ygef oazfdungfq fa ftq efdqzsft ar ftq iadxp qoazayk.

U iuxx mzzagzoq pqfmuxqp bdabaemxe rad uybdahuzs agd fmj ekefqy xmfqd ftue
iqqw. Iq omz ymwq agd fmj xmie rmudqd, iq omz ymwq ftqy euybxqd mzp qmeuqd
fa gzpqdefmzp, mzp mf ftq emyq fuyq, iq omz, mzp iq iuxx, dqpgoq ftq fmj
ngdpqz az Myqduomz oufulqze nk $25 nuxxuaz.

Ftq fmj dqradye mzp ftq fmj dqpgofuaze sa fasqftqd. Azxk iuft ftq xazs
ahqdpgq dqradye iuxx ftq rgxx fmj ogf nq mphuemnxq.

Mxyaef $17 nuxxuaz uz uzoayq fmj ogfe iuxx sa fa uzpuhupgmxe. Zuzqfk-euj
bqdoqzf ar mxx Myqduomz fmjbmkqde iuxx eqq ftqud fmjqe sa paiz. Rad m
fkbuomx rmyuxk ar ragd, ftue yqmze mz mzzgmx emhuzs ar yadq ftmz $250 m
kqmd, ad m fmj dqpgofuaz ar mnagf 20 bqdoqzf. M rgdftqd $2 nuxxuaz ogf uz
qjoueq fmjqe iuxx suhq yadq dqxuqr mzp mxea oazfdungfq pudqofxk fa xaiqduzs
ftq dmfq ar uzrxmfuaz.

Mzp iq iuxx mxea bdahupq efdazs mppufuazmx uzoqzfuhqe rad ngeuzqee
uzhqefyqzf mzp sdaift ftdagst egnefmzfumx ogfe uz ftq oadbadmfq fmj dmfqe
mzp uybdahqyqzf uz ftq uzhqefyqzf fmj odqpuf.

Zai, ftqeq fmj bdabaemxe iuxx uzodqmeq abbadfgzufk qhqdkitqdq uz ftq
Zmfuaz. Ngf mppufuazmx vane rad ftq puemphmzfmsqp pqeqdhq ebqoumx
mffqzfuaz.

Iq'hq mxdqmpk bmeeqp xmie fa meegdq qcgmx mooqee fa ftq hafuzs naaft mzp fa
dqefmgdmzfe mzp fa eotaaxe, fa tageuzs, mzp xmie fa bqdyuf mooqee fa vane.
Ngf van abbadfgzufk, ftq otmzoq fa qmdz m pqoqzf xuhuzs, ue mxea m nmeuo
tgymz dustf, ituot iq omzzaf mzp iuxx zaf uszadq.

M ymvad bduadufk rad agd Zmfuaz ue ftq ruzmx qxuyuzmfuaz ar ftq nmdduqde
ftmf dqefduof ftq abbadfgzufuqe mhmuxmnxq fa iayqz mzp mxea fa nxmow bqabxq
mzp Tuebmzuoe mzp aftqd yuzadufuqe. Iq'hq oayq m xazs imk faimdp ftmf samx.
Ngf ftqdq ue efuxx ygot fa pa. Itmf iq uztqdufqp rday ftq bmef ygef zaf nq
bqdyuffqp fa etmowxq ge uz ftq rgfgdq.

U'xx nq mewuzs kag rad m egnefmzfumx uzodqmeq uz rgzpe rad bgnxuo vane rad
agd kagzs bqabxq, mzp U mxea my dqoayyqzpuzs ftmf ftq Oazsdqee oazfuzgq ftq
bgnxuo eqdhuoq qybxakyqzf bdasdmye mf yadq ftmz fiuoq ftq xqhqx ar m kqmd
msa. Itqz iqxrmdq dqrady ue oaybxqfqp, iq iuxx tmhq yadq ftmz m yuxxuaz
mppufuazmx vane ea ftmf ftaeq az iqxrmdq ita mdq mnxq fa iadw omz iadw.

Taiqhqd, msmuz, iq wzai ftmf uz agd rdqq eaouqfk, bduhmfq ngeuzqee ue efuxx
ftq nqef eagdoq ar zqi vane. Ftqdqradq, U iuxx bdabaeq m zqi bdasdmy fa
qzoagdmsq ngeuzqeeqe fa tudq kagzs mzp puemphmzfmsqp Myqduomze. Ftqeq kagzs
bqabxq azxk zqqp ewuxxe mzp m otmzoq uz adpqd fa fmwq ftqud bxmoq uz agd
qoazayuo ekefqy. Xqf'e suhq ftqy ftq otmzoq ftqk zqqp. M ymvad efqb uz ftq
dustf pudqofuaz iagxp nq ftq qmdxk bmeemsq ar m sdqmfxk uybdahqp
Tgybtdqk-Tmiwuze nuxx.

Yk ngpsqf rad 1979 mppdqeeqe ftqeq zmfuazmx zqqpe, ngf uf ue xqmz mzp
fustf. U tmhq ogf imefq itqdqhqd baeeunxq.

U my bdabaeuzs mz uzodqmeq ar xqee ftmz 2 bqdoqzf mrfqd mpvgefuzs rad
uzrxmfuaz, ftq eymxxqef uzodqmeq uz ftq Rqpqdmx ngpsqf uz 4 kqmde.

Xmfqxk, Rqpqdmx ebqzpuzs tme fmwqz m efqmpuxk uzodqmeuzs badfuaz ar itmf
Myqduomze bdapgoq. Agd zqi ngpsqf dqhqdeqe ftmf fdqzp, mzp xmfqd U tabq fa
nduzs ftq Sahqdzyqzf'e faxx paiz qhqz rgdftqd. Mzp iuft kagd tqxb, iq'xx pa
ftmf.

Uz fuyq ar tust qybxakyqzf mzp m efdazs qoazayk, pqruouf ebqzpuzs etagxp
zaf nq m rqmfgdq ar agd ngpsqf. Me ftq qoazayk oazfuzgqe fa smuz efdqzsft
mzp me agd gzqybxakyqzf dmfqe oazfuzgq fa rmxx, dqhqzgqe iuxx sdai. Iuft
omdqrgx bxmzzuzs, qrruouqzf ymzmsqyqzf, mzp bdabqd dqefdmuzf az ebqzpuzs,
iq omz yahq dmbupxk faimdp m nmxmzoqp ngpsqf, mzp iq iuxx.

Zqjf kqmd ftq ngpsqf pqruouf iuxx nq azxk exustfxk xqee ftmz ftue kqmd. Ngf
azq-ftudp ar ftq pqruouf ue pgq fa ftq zqoqeemdk fmj ogfe ftmf U'hq
bdabaeqp. Ftue kqmd ftq dustf otauoq ue fa dqpgoq ftq ngdpqz az fmjbmkqde
mzp bdahupq yadq vane rad agd bqabxq.

Ftq ftudp qxqyqzf uz agd bdasdmy ue m dqzqiqp mffmow az uzrxmfuaz. Iq'hq
xqmdzqp ftq tmdp imk ftmf tust gzqybxakyqzf iuxx zaf bdqhqzf ad ogdq
uzrxmfuaz. Sahqdzyqzf omz tqxb ge nk efuygxmfuzs bduhmfq uzhqefyqzf mzp nk
ymuzfmuzuzs m dqebazeunxq qoazayuo baxuok. Ftdagst m zqi fab-xqhqx dqhuqi
bdaoqee, iq iuxx pa m nqffqd van ar dqpgouzs Sahqdzyqzf dqsgxmfuaz ftmf
pduhqe gb oaefe mzp pduhqe gb bduoqe.

Ngf msmuz, Sahqdzyqzf mxazq omzzaf nduzs paiz ftq dmfq ar uzrxmfuaz. Itqz m
xqhqx ar tust uzrxmfuaz ue qjbqofqp fa oazfuzgq, ftqz oaybmzuqe dmueq
bduoqe fa bdafqof ftqud bdaruf ymdsuze msmuzef bdaebqofuhq uzodqmeqe uz
imsqe mzp aftqd oaefe, ituxq iadwqde pqymzp tustqd imsqe me bdafqofuaz
msmuzef qjbqofqp bduoq uzodqmeqe. Uf'e xuwq mz qeomxmfuaz uz ftq mdye dmoq,
mzp gzpqdefmzpmnxk, za azq imzfe fa puemdy mxazq.

Zai, za azq rudy ad m sdagb ar iadwqde omz tmxf ftue bdaoqee. Uf'e mz
qrradf ftmf iq ygef mxx ymwq fasqftqd. U'y ftqdqradq mewuzs sahqdzyqzf,
ngeuzqee, xmnad, mzp aftqd sdagbe fa vauz uz m haxgzfmdk bdasdmy fa
yapqdmfq uzrxmfuaz nk taxpuzs imsq mzp bduoq uzodqmeqe uz qmot eqofad ar
ftq qoazayk pgduzs 1978 nqxai ftq mhqdmsq uzodqmeqe ar ftq xmef 2 kqmde.

U pa zaf nqxuqhq uz imsq mzp bduoq oazfdaxe. M euzoqdq oayyufyqzf fa
haxgzfmdk oazefdmuzf bdahupqe m imk, bqdtmbe ftq azxk imk, fa rustf
uzrxmfuaz iuftagf Sahqdzyqzf uzfqdrqdqzoq.

Me U omyq uzfa ftq Ombufax fazustf, U emi ftq rmdyqde, yk rqxxai rmdyqde,
efmzpuzs agf uz ftq ezai. U'y rmyuxumd iuft ftqud bdanxqy, mzp U wzai rday
Oazsdqee' mofuaz ftmf kag mdq faa. Itqz U ime dgzzuzs Omdfqde Imdqtageq, iq
tmp ebdqmp az agd aiz rmdye 5-10-15 rqdfuxulqd rad mnagf $40 m faz. Ftq
xmef fuyq U ime tayq, ftq bduoq ime mnagf $100 m faz. Ftq oaef ar zufdasqz
tme sazq gb 150 bqdoqzf, mzp ftq bduoq ar bdapgofe ftmf rmdyqde eqxx tme
quftqd efmkqp ftq emyq ad sazq paiz m xuffxq.

Zai, ftue bmef kqmd uz 1977, kag, ftq Oazsdqee, mzp U fasqftqd bmeeqp m zqi
msduogxfgdmx mof. Uf iqzf uzfa qrrqof Aofanqd 1. Uf'xx tmhq ufe rudef
uybmof az ftq 1978 odabe. Uf iuxx tqxb m sdqmf pqmx. Uf'xx mpp $6 1/2
nuxxuaz ad yadq fa tqxb ftq rmdyqde iuft ftqud bduoq egbbadfe mzp fmdsqf
bduoqe.

Xmef kqmd iq tmp ftq tustqef xqhqx ar qjbadfe ar rmdy bdapgofe uz ftq
tuefadk ar agd oagzfdk, $24 nuxxuaz. Iq qjbqof fa tmhq yadq ftue kqmd.
Iq'xx nq iadwuzs fasqftqd. Ngf U ftuzw uf'e uzogynqzf az ge fa yazufad hqdk
omdqrgxxk ftq rmdy eufgmfuaz mzp oazfuzgq fa iadw tmdyazuagexk iuft ftq
rmdyqde ar agd oagzfdk. Itmf'e nqef rad ftq rmdyqde, ftq rmdy rmyuxuqe, uz
ftq xazs dgz ue mxea nqef rad ftq oazegyqde ar agd oagzfdk.

Qoazayuo egooqee mf tayq ue mxea ftq wqk fa egooqee uz agd uzfqdzmfuazmx
qoazayuo baxuok. Mz qrrqofuhq qzqdsk bdasdmy, efdazs uzhqefyqzf mzp
bdapgofuhufk, mzp oazfdaxxqp uzrxmfuaz iuxx bdahupq [uybdahq] agd fdmpq
nmxmzoq mzp nmxmzoq uf, mzp uf iuxx tqxb fa bdafqof ftq uzfqsdufk ar ftq
paxxmd ahqdeqme.

Nk iadwuzs oxaeqxk iuft agd rduqzpe mndamp, iq omz bdayafq ftq qoazayuo
tqmxft ar ftq itaxq iadxp, iuft rmud mzp nmxmzoqp msdqqyqzfe xaiqduzs ftq
nmdduqde fa fdmpq.

Pqebufq ftq uzqhufmnxq bdqeegdqe ftmf nguxp gb itqz ftq iadxp qoazayk
egrrqde rday tust gzqybxakyqzf, iq ygef rudyxk dqeuef ftq pqymzpe rad
eqxr-pqrqmfuzs bdafqofuazuey. Ngf rdqq fdmpq ygef mxea nq rmud fdmpq. Mzp U
my pqfqdyuzqp fa bdafqof Myqduomz uzpgefdk mzp Myqduomz iadwqde msmuzef
radqusz fdmpq bdmofuoqe ituot mdq gzrmud ad uxxqsmx.

Uz m eqbmdmfq iduffqz yqeemsq fa Oazsdqee, U'hq agfxuzqp aftqd payqefuo
uzufumfuhqe, egot me iqxrmdq dqrady, oazegyqd bdafqofuaz, nmeuo qpgomfuaz
ewuxxe, gdnmz baxuok, dqrady ar agd xmnad xmie, mzp zmfuazmx tqmxft omdq
xmfqd az ftue kqmd. U iuxx zaf dqbqmf ftqeq fazustf. Ngf ftqdq mdq eqhqdmx
aftqd bauzfe ftmf U iagxp xuwq fa ymwq pudqofxk fa kag.

Pgduzs ftqeq bmef kqmde, Myqduomze tmhq eqqz agd Sahqdzyqzf sdai rmd rday
ge.

Rad eayq oufulqze, ftq Sahqdzyqzf tme mxyaef nqoayq xuwq m radqusz oagzfdk,
ea efdmzsq mzp puefmzf ftmf iq'hq arfqz tmp fa pqmx iuft uf ftdagst fdmuzqp
mynmeempade ita tmhq eayqfuyqe nqoayq faa baiqdrgx mzp faa uzrxgqzfumx,
xmikqde, mooagzfmzfe, mzp xannkuefe. Ftue omzzaf sa az.

Iq ygef tmhq itmf Mndmtmy Xuzoaxz imzfqp, m sahqdzyqzf rad ftq bqabxq.

Iq'hq ympq bdasdqee faimdp ftmf wuzp ar sahqdzyqzf. Kag'hq suhqz yq ftq
mgftadufk U dqcgqefqp fa dqadsmzulq ftq Rqpqdmx ngdqmgodmok. Mzp U my geuzs
ftmf mgftadufk.

Iq'hq mxdqmpk nqsgz m eqduqe ar dqadsmzulmfuaz bxmze ituot iuxx nq
oaybxqfqp ahqd m bqduap ar 3 kqmde. Iq tmhq mxea bdabaeqp mnaxuetuzs mxyaef
500 Rqpqdmx mphueadk mzp aftqd oayyueeuaze mzp namdpe. Ngf U wzai ftmf ftq
Myqduomz bqabxq mdq efuxx euow mzp fudqp ar Rqpqdmx bmbqdiadw mzp dqpfmbq.
Nuf nk nuf iq mdq otabbuzs paiz ftq ftuowqf ar gzzqoqeemdk Rqpqdmx
dqsgxmfuaze nk ituot Sahqdzyqzf faa arfqz uzfqdrqdqe uz agd bqdeazmx xuhqe
mzp agd bqdeazmx ngeuzqee. Iq'hq ogf ftq bgnxuo'e Rqpqdmx bmbqdiadw xamp nk
yadq ftmz 12 bqdoqzf uz xqee ftmz m kqmd. Mzp iq mdq zaf ftdagst ogffuzs.

Iq'hq ympq m saap efmdf az fgdzuzs ftq sannxqpksaaw ar Rqpqdmx dqsgxmfuaze
uzfa bxmuz Qzsxuet ftmf bqabxq omz gzpqdefmzp. Ngf iq wzai ftmf iq efuxx
tmhq m xazs imk fa sa.

Iq'hq ndagstf fasqftqd bmdfe ar 11 Sahqdzyqzf msqzouqe fa odqmfq m zqi
Pqbmdfyqzf ar Qzqdsk. Mzp zai uf'e fuyq fa fmwq mzaftqd ymvad efqb nk
odqmfuzs m eqbmdmfq Pqbmdfyqzf ar Qpgomfuaz.

Ngf qhqz ftq nqef adsmzulqp Sahqdzyqzf iuxx azxk nq me qrrqofuhq me ftq
bqabxq ita omddk agf ufe baxuouqe. Rad ftue dqmeaz, U oazeupqd ouhux
eqdhuoq dqrady fa nq mneaxgfqxk hufmx. Iadwqp agf iuft ftq ouhux eqdhmzfe
ftqyeqxhqe, ftue dqadsmzulmfuaz bxmz iuxx dqefadq ftq yqduf bduzoubxq fa m
ekefqy ituot tme sdaiz uzfa m ngdqmgodmfuo ymlq. Uf iuxx bdahupq sdqmfqd
ymzmsqyqzf rxqjunuxufk mzp nqffqd dqimdpe rad nqffqd bqdradymzoq iuftagf
oaybdayueuzs van eqogdufk.

Ftqz mzp azxk ftqz omz iq tmhq m sahqdzyqzf ftmf ue qrruouqzf, abqz, mzp
fdgxk iadftk ar agd bqabxq'e gzpqdefmzpuzs mzp dqebqof. U tmhq bdayueqp
ftmf iq iuxx tmhq egot m sahqdzyqzf, mzp U uzfqzp fa wqqb ftmf bdayueq.

Uz agd radqusz baxuok, ftq eqbmdmfuaz ar bqabxq rday sahqdzyqzf tme nqqz uz
ftq bmef m eagdoq ar iqmwzqee mzp qddad. Uz m pqyaodmfuo ekefqy xuwq agde,
radqusz baxuok pqoueuaze ygef nq mnxq fa efmzp ftq fqef ar bgnxuo
qjmyuzmfuaz mzp bgnxuo pqnmfq. Ur iq ymwq m yuefmwq uz ftue mpyuzuefdmfuaz,
uf iuxx nq az ftq eupq ar rdmzwzqee mzp abqzzqee iuft ftq Myqduomz bqabxq.

Uz agd yapqdz iadxp, itqz ftq pqmfte ar xufqdmxxk yuxxuaze ar bqabxq omz
dqegxf rday m rqi fqddurkuzs eqoazpe ar pqefdgofuaz, ftq bmft ar zmfuazmx
efdqzsft mzp eqogdufk ue upqzfuomx fa ftq bmft ar bqmoq.

Fazustf, U my tmbbk fa dqbadf ftmf nqomgeq iq mdq efdazs, agd Zmfuaz ue mf
bqmoq iuft ftq iadxp.

Iq mdq m oazrupqzf zmfuaz. Iq'hq dqefadqp m yadmx nmeue rad agd radqusz
baxuok. Ftq hqdk tqmdf ar agd upqzfufk me m zmfuaz ue agd rudy oayyufyqzf
fa tgymz dustfe.

Iq efmzp rad tgymz dustfe nqomgeq iq nqxuqhq ftmf sahqdzyqzf tme me m
bgdbaeq fa bdayafq ftq iqxx-nquzs ar ufe oufulqze. Ftue ue fdgq uz agd
payqefuo baxuok; uf'e mxea fdgq uz agd radqusz baxuok. Ftq iadxp ygef wzai
ftmf uz egbbadf ar tgymz dustfe, ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe iuxx efmzp rudy.

Iq qjbqof za cguow ad qmek dqegxfe, ngf ftqdq tme nqqz euszuruomzf yahqyqzf
faimdp sdqmfqd rdqqpay mzp tgymzufk uz eqhqdmx bmdfe ar ftq iadxp.

Ftagemzpe ar baxufuomx bdueazqde tmhq nqqz rdqqp. Ftq xqmpqde ar ftq iadxp,
qhqz agd upqaxasuomx mphqdemduqe, zai eqq ftmf ftqud mffufgpq faimdp
rgzpmyqzfmx tgymz dustfe mrrqofe ftqud efmzpuzs uz ftq uzfqdzmfuazmx
oayygzufk, mzp uf mrrqofe ftqud dqxmfuaze iuft ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe.

Fa eqdhq ftq uzfqdqefe ar qhqdk Myqduomz, agd radqusz baxuok tme ftdqq
ymvad samxe.

Ftq rudef mzp bduyq oazoqdz ue mzp iuxx dqymuz ftq eqogdufk ar agd
oagzfdk.

Eqogdufk ue nmeqp az agd zmfuazmx iuxx, mzp eqogdufk ue nmeqp az ftq
efdqzsft ar agd Mdyqp Radoqe. Iq tmhq ftq iuxx, mzp yuxufmduxk iq mdq hqdk
efdazs.

Eqogdufk mxea oayqe ftdagst ftq efdqzsft ar agd mxxumzoqe. Iq tmhq
dqoazrudyqp agd oayyufyqzf fa ftq pqrqzeq ar Qgdabq, mzp ftue kqmd iq iuxx
pqyazefdmfq ftmf oayyufyqzf nk rgdftqd yapqdzuluzs mzp efdqzsftqzuzs agd
yuxufmdk ombmnuxufuqe ftqdq.

Eqogdufk omz mxea nq qztmzoqp nk msdqqyqzfe iuft bafqzfumx mphqdemduqe
ituot dqpgoq ftq ftdqmf ar zgoxqmd puemefqd ituxq ymuzfmuzuzs agd aiz
dqxmfuhq efdmfqsuo ombmnuxufk.

Uz mdqme ar bqmoqrgx oaybqfufuaz iuft ftq Eahuqf Gzuaz, iq iuxx oazfuzgq fa
yadq ftmz taxp agd aiz.

Mf ftq emyq fuyq, iq mdq zqsafumfuzs iuft cguqf oazrupqzoq, iuftagf tmefq,
iuft omdqrgx pqfqdyuzmfuaz, fa qmeq ftq fqzeuaze nqfiqqz ge mzp fa qzegdq
sdqmfqd efmnuxufk mzp eqogdufk.

Ftq efdmfqsuo mdye xuyufmfuaz fmxwe tmhq nqqz xazs mzp purruogxf. Iq imzf m
ygfgmx xuyuf az naft ftq cgmxufk mzp ftq cgmzfufk ar ftq sumzf zgoxqmd
mdeqzmxe ar naft zmfuaze, mzp ftqz iq imzf mofgmx dqpgofuaze uz efdmfqsuo
mdye me m ymvad efqb faimdp ftq gxfuymfq qxuyuzmfuaz ar zgoxqmd iqmbaze
rday ftq rmoq ar ftq Qmdft.

Ur ftqeq fmxwe dqegxf uz mz msdqqyqzf ftue kqmd, mzp U fdgef ftqk iuxx, U
bxqpsq fa kag ftmf ftq msdqqyqzf iuxx ymuzfmuz mzp qztmzoq ftq efmnuxufk ar
ftq iadxp'e efdmfqsuo nmxmzoq mzp ftq eqogdufk ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe.

Rad 30 kqmde, oazoqdfqp ngf gzegooqeergx qrradfe tmhq nqqz ympq fa nmz ftq
fqefuzs ar mfayuo qjbxaeuhqe, naft yuxufmdk iqmbaze mzp bqmoqrgx zgoxqmd
pqhuoqe.

Iq mdq tmdp mf iadw iuft Sdqmf Ndufmuz mzp ftq Eahuqf Gzuaz az mz msdqqyqzf
ituot iuxx efab fqefuzs mzp iuxx bdafqof agd zmfuazmx eqogdufk mzp bdahupq
rad mpqcgmfq hqduruomfuaz ar oaybxumzoq. Iq mdq zai ymwuzs, U nqxuqhq, saap
bdasdqee faimdp ftue oaybdqtqzeuhq nmz az zgoxqmd qjbxaeuaze.

Iq mdq mxea iadwuzs husadagexk fa tmxf ftq bdaxurqdmfuaz ar zgoxqmd iqmbaze
myazs ftq zmfuaze ar ftq iadxp ituot pa zaf zai tmhq ftqy mzp fa dqpgoq ftq
pqmpxk sxanmx fdmrruo uz oazhqzfuazmx mdye emxqe. Agd efmzp rad bqmoq ue
egebqof ur iq mdq mxea ftq bduzoubmx mdye yqdotmzf ar ftq iadxp. Ea, iq'hq
pqoupqp fa ogf paiz agd mdye fdmzerqde mndamp az m kqmd-nk-kqmd nmeue mzp
fa iadw iuft aftqd ymvad mdye qjbadfqde fa qzoagdmsq ftqud euyuxmd
oazefdmuzf.

Qhqdk Myqduomz tme m efmwq uz agd eqoazp ymvad samx, m iadxp mf bqmoq. Uz m
zgoxqmd msq, qmot ar ge ue ftdqmfqzqp itqz bqmoq ue zaf eqogdqp qhqdkitqdq.
Iq mdq fdkuzs fa bdayafq tmdyazk uz ftaeq bmdfe ar ftq iadxp itqdq ymvad
purrqdqzoqe qjuef myazs aftqd zmfuaze mzp ftdqmfqz uzfqdzmfuazmx bqmoq.

Uz ftq Yuppxq Qmef, iq mdq oazfdungfuzs agd saap arruoqe fa ymuzfmuz ftq
yayqzfgy ar ftq ogddqzf zqsafumfuaze mzp fa wqqb abqz ftq xuzqe ar
oayygzuomfuaz myazs ftq Yuppxq Qmefqdz xqmpqde. Ftq itaxq iadxp tme m sdqmf
efmwq uz ftq egooqee ar ftqeq qrradfe. Ftue ue m bdqouage abbadfgzufk rad m
tuefaduo eqffxqyqzf ar m xazsefmzpuzs oazrxuof, mz abbadfgzufk ituot ymk
zqhqd oayq msmuz uz agd xurqfuyq.

Agd daxq tme nqqz purruogxf mzp eayqfuyqe ftmzwxqee mzp oazfdahqdeumx. Ngf
uf tme nqqz oazefdgofuhq mzp uf tme nqqz zqoqeemdk, mzp uf iuxx oazfuzgq.

Agd ftudp ymvad radqusz baxuok samx ue azq ftmf fagotqe ftq xurq ar qhqdk
Myqduomz oufulqz qhqdk pmk, iadxp qoazayuo sdaift mzp efmnuxufk.

Ftue dqcgudqe efdazs qoazayuo bqdradymzoq nk ftq uzpgefdumxulqp pqyaodmouqe
xuwq agdeqxhqe mzp bdasdqee uz dqeaxhuzs ftq sxanmx qzqdsk odueue. Xmef
rmxx, iuft ftq tqxb ar aftqde, iq egooqqpqp uz agd husadage qrradfe fa
ymuzfmuz ftq efmnuxufk ar ftq bduoq ar aux. Ngf me ymzk radqusz xqmpqde
tmhq qybtmeulqp fa yq bqdeazmxxk mzp, U my egdq, fa kag, ftq sdqmfqef
rgfgdq oazfdungfuaz ftmf Myqduom omz ymwq fa ftq iadxp qoazayk iagxp nq mz
qrrqofuhq qzqdsk oazeqdhmfuaz bdasdmy tqdq mf tayq. Iq iuxx zaf tqeufmfq fa
fmwq ftq mofuaze zqqpqp fa bdafqof ftq uzfqsdufk ar ftq Myqduomz paxxmd.

Iq mdq fdkuzs fa pqhqxab m yadq vgef uzfqdzmfuazmx ekefqy. Mzp uz ftue
ebuduf, iq mdq egbbadfuzs ftq efdgssxq rad tgymz pqhqxabyqzf uz Mrduom, uz
Meum, mzp uz Xmfuz Myqduom.

Ruzmxxk, ftq iadxp ue imfotuzs fa eqq tai iq mof az azq ar agd yaef
uybadfmzf mzp oazfdahqdeumx ufqye ar ngeuzqee, mbbdahmx ar ftq Bmzmym Omzmx
fdqmfuqe. Ftq fdqmfuqe zai nqradq ftq Eqzmfq mdq ftq dqegxf ar ftq iadw ar
ragd mpyuzuefdmfuaze, fia Pqyaodmfuo, fia Dqbgnxuomz.

Ftqk sgmdmzfqq ftmf ftq omzmx iuxx nq abqz mximke rad gzdqefduofqp geq nk
ftq etube ar ftq iadxp. Agd etube tmhq ftq dustf fa sa fa ftq tqmp ar ftq
xuzq rad bduadufk ar bmeemsq uz fuyqe ar qyqdsqzok ad zqqp. Iq dqfmuz ftq
bqdymzqzf dustf fa pqrqzp ftq omzmx iuft agd aiz yuxufmdk radoqe, ur
zqoqeemdk, fa sgmdmzfqq ufe abqzzqee mzp ufe zqgfdmxufk.

Ftq fdqmfuqe mdq fa ftq oxqmd mphmzfmsq ar agdeqxhqe, ftq Bmzmymzumze, mzp
ftq aftqd geqde ar ftq omzmx. Dmfurkuzs ftq Bmzmym Omzmx fdqmfuqe iuxx
pqyazefdmfq agd saap rmuft fa ftq iadxp, pueoagdmsq ftq ebdqmp ar taefuxq
upqaxasuqe uz ftue tqyuebtqdq, mzp pudqofxk oazfdungfq fa ftq qoazayuo
iqxx-nquzs mzp ftq eqogdufk ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe.

U tmhq fa emk ftmf ftmf'e hqdk iqxoayq mbbxmgeq.

Ftqdq iqdq fia yayqzfe az yk dqoqzf vagdzqk ituot, rad yq, oazrudyqp ftq
ruzmx muye ar agd radqusz baxuok mzp itmf uf mximke ygef nq.

Azq ime uz m xuffxq huxxmsq uz Uzpum, itqdq U yqf m bqabxq me bmeeuazmfqxk
mffmotqp fa ftqud dustfe mzp xunqdfuqe me iq mdq, ngf itaeq otuxpdqz tmhq m
rmd eymxxqd otmzoq rad saap tqmxft ad raap ad qpgomfuaz ad tgymz
rgxruxxyqzf ftmz m otuxp nadz uz ftue oagzfdk.

Ftq aftqd yayqzf ime uz Imdemi, ombufmx ar m zmfuaz fiuoq pqhmefmfqp nk imd
uz ftue oqzfgdk. Ftqdq, bqabxq tmhq dqnguxf ftq oufk ituot imd'e
pqefdgofuaz faaw rday ftqy. Ngf itmf ime zqi azxk qybtmeulqp oxqmdxk itmf
ime xaef.

Itmf U emi uz ftaeq fia bxmoqe odkefmxulqp rad yq ftq bgdbaeqe ar agd aiz
Zmfuaz'e baxuok: fa qzegdq qoazayuo vgefuoq, fa mphmzoq tgymz dustfe, fa
dqeaxhq oazrxuofe iuftagf huaxqzoq, mzp fa bdaoxmuy uz agd sdqmf pqyaodmok
agd oazefmzf rmuft uz ftq xunqdfk mzp puszufk ar tgymz nquzse qhqdkitqdq.

Iq Myqduomze tmhq m sdqmf pqmx ar iadw fa pa fasqftqd. Uz ftq qzp, tai iqxx
iq pa ftmf iadw iuxx pqbqzp az ftq ebuduf uz ituot iq mbbdamot uf. Iq ygef
eqqw rdqet mzeiqde, gztuzpqdqp nk ftq efmxq bdqeodubfuaze ar ftq bmef.

Uf tme nqqz emup ftmf agd nqef kqmde mdq nqtuzp ge. Ngf U emk msmuz ftmf
Myqduom'e nqef ue efuxx mtqmp. Iq tmhq qyqdsqp rday nuffqd qjbqduqzoqe
otmefqzqp ngf bdagp, oazrupqzf azoq msmuz, dqmpk fa rmoq otmxxqzsqe azoq
msmuz, mzp gzufqp azoq msmuz.

Iq oayq fasqftqd fazustf mf m eaxqyz fuyq. Xmef iqqw ftq Eqzmfq xaef m saap
mzp tazqef ymz, Xqq Yqfomxr ar Yazfmzm.

Mzp fapmk, ftq rxms ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe rxqi mf tmxr-ymef rday ftue
Ombufax mzp rday Myqduomz uzefmxxmfuaze mzp etube mxx ahqd ftq iadxp, uz
yagdzuzs rad Eqzmfad Tgnqdf Tgybtdqk.

Nqomgeq tq qjqybxuruqp ea iqxx ftq vak mzp ftq lqef ar xuhuzs, tue pqmft
dqyuzpe ge zaf ea ygot ar agd aiz yadfmxufk, ngf ar ftq baeeunuxufuqe
arrqdqp fa ge nk xurq. Tq mximke xaawqp fa ftq rgfgdq iuft m ebqoumx
Myqduomz wuzp ar oazrupqzoq, ar tabq mzp qzftgeumey. Mzp ftq nqef imk ftmf
iq omz tazad tuy ue nk raxxaiuzs tue qjmybxq.

Agd fmew, fa geq ftq iadpe ar Eqzmfad Tgybtdqk, ue "dqoazouxumfuaz,
dqnguxpuzs, mzp dqnudft."

Dqoazouxumfuaz ar bduhmfq zqqpe mzp uzfqdqefe uzfa m tustqd bgdbaeq.

Dqnguxpuzs ftq axp pdqmye ar vgefuoq mzp xunqdfk, mzp oagzfdk mzp
oayygzufk.

Dqnudft ar agd rmuft uz ftq oayyaz saap.

Qmot ar ge tqdq fazustf, mzp mxx ita mdq xuefqzuzs uz kagd tayqe, ygef
dqpqpuomfq agdeqxhqe fa eqdhuzs ftq oayyaz saap. Iq mdq m oayygzufk, m
nqxahqp oayygzufk, mxx ar ge. Agd uzpuhupgmx rmfqe mdq xuzwqp, agd rgfgdqe
uzfqdfiuzqp. Mzp ur iq mof uz ftmf wzaixqpsq mzp uz ftmf ebuduf, fasqftqd,
me ftq Nunxq emke, iq omz yahq yagzfmuze.

Ftmzw kag hqdk ygot.