Cx cqn Lxwpanbb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb:

Cqn jbbnvkujpn frcqrw cqn wjcrxw'b unprbujcren qjuub xo cqxbn lqjapnm frcq cqn
mdch xo vjtrwp ujfb oxa cqn knwnorc xo j pnwnaxdb jwm oann ynxyun rvyanbbrenuh
bdppnbcb cqn ngjlcrwp xkurpjcrxw jwm rwngxajkun anbyxwbrkrurch rwexuenm rw
cqnra cjbt. Jc cqn cqanbqxum xo bdlq ujkxa wxf cx kn dwmnacjtnw kh cqn
Lxwpanbb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, jwm rw cqn mrblqjapn xo jw ngnldcren mdch
nwsxrwnm kh cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw, R bdkvrc cqrb lxvvdwrljcrxw, lxwcjrwrwp j karno
bcjcnvnwc xo cqn lxwmrcrxw xo xda wjcrxwju joojrab jwm anlxvvnwmrwp bdlq
unprbujcrxw jb bnnvb cx vn wnlnbbjah jwm ngynmrnwc.

Cqn qrbcxah xo xda anlnwc mnjurwpb frcq xcqna wjcrxwb jwm xda ynjlnodu
anujcrxwb frcq cqnv jc cqrb crvn jmmrcrxwjuuh mnvxwbcajcn cqn jmejwcjpn xo
lxwbrbcnwcuh jmqnarwp cx j orav kdc sdbc oxanrpw yxurlh, oann oaxv nwerxdb xa
jvkrcrxdb wjcrxwju blqnvnb jwm lqjajlcnarinm kh nwcran qxwnbch jwm brwlnarch.

Mdarwp cqn yjbc hnja, ydabdjwc cx j ujf xo Lxwpanbb, lxvvrbbrxwnab fnan
jyyxrwcnm cx cqn Jwcfnay Rwmdbcarju Ngyxbrcrxw. Cqxdpq cqn yjacrlryjcrxw xo
Jvnarljw ngqrkrcxab onuu oja bqxac xo lxvyuncnuh ruudbcajcrwp xda wjcrxwju
rwpnwdrch jwm rwmdbcarju jlqrnenvnwcb, hnc rc fjb zdrcn lanmrcjkun rw ernf xo
cqn karno crvn juuxfnm oxa yanyjajcrxw.

R qjen nwmnjexanm cx rvyanbb dyxw cqn Knuprjw Pxenawvnwc cqn qnnmunbbwnbb jwm
yxbrcren qjavoduwnbb xo rcb anbcarlcrxwb dyxw cqn rvyxacjcrxw xo lnacjrw xo
xda oxxm yaxmdlcb, jwm qjen bcaxwpuh dapnm cqjc cqn arprm bdynaerbrxw jwm
rwbynlcrxw dwmna xda ujfb jan jvyuh bdoorlrnwc cx yanenwc cqn ngyxacjcrxw oaxv
cqrb lxdwcah xo mrbnjbnm ljccun jwm dwfqxunbxvn vnjc.

Cqn cnavrwjcrxw xo cqn lreru fja rw Kajiru qjb knnw oxuuxfnm kh cqn pnwnaju
yanejunwln xo ynjln jwm xamna. Rc jyynjarwp jc jw njauh bcjpn xo cqn
rwbdaanlcrxw cqjc rcb lxdabn fxdum ljuu oxa dwdbdju fjclqoduwnbb xw cqn yjac
xo cqrb Pxenawvnwc, xda wjeju oxaln rw cqn qjakxa xo Arx mn Sjwnrax fjb
bcanwpcqnwnm. Cqrb yanljdcrxw, R jv bjcrbornm, cnwmnm cx anbcarlc cqn rbbdn cx
j brvyun carju xo bcanwpcq kncfnnw cqn Kajirurjw Pxenawvnwc jwm cqn rwbdapnwcb
jwm cx jenac lxvyurljcrxwb fqrlq jc crvnb bnnvnm rvvrwnwc. Xda orav jccrcdmn
xo wndcajurch fjb vjrwcjrwnm cx cqn nwm. Cqn rwbdapnwcb anlnrenm wx
nwlxdajpnvnwc xo nenwcdju jbhudv oaxv xda lxvvjwmnab, jwm bdlq xyyxbrcrxw jb
cqnh nwlxdwcnanm fjb oxa cqn yaxcnlcrxw xo xda lxvvnaln jwm fjb lunjauh
sdbcrornm kh ydkurl ujf.

J bnarxdb cnwbrxw xo anujcrxwb qjerwp jarbnw jc cqn luxbn xo cqn fja kncfnnw
Kajiru jwm Yxacdpju kh anjbxw xo cqn nbljyn xo cqn rwbdapnwc jmvraju Mj Pjvj
jwm qrb oxuuxfnab, cqn oarnwmuh xoorlnb xo xda anyanbnwcjcrenb cx cqxbn
lxdwcarnb fnan ngnacnm oxa cqn yaxcnlcrxw xo cqn bdksnlcb xo nrcqna frcqrw cqn
cnaarcxah xo cqn xcqna.

Jucqxdpq cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Kajiru fjb mduh wxcrornm cqjc cqn lxvvnalrju
jaajwpnvnwc ngrbcrwp kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm cqjc lxdwcah kjbnm xw cqn
cqram bnlcrxw xo cqn cjaroo jlc xo 1890 fjb jkaxpjcnm xw Jdpdbc 28, 1894, kh
cqn cjtrwp noonlc xo cqn cjaroo ujf wxf rw oxaln, cqjc Pxenawvnwc bdkbnzdnwcuh
wxcrornm db xo rcb rwcnwcrxw cx cnavrwjcn bdlq jaajwpnvnwc xw cqn 1bc mjh xo
Sjwdjah, 1895, rw cqn ngnalrbn xo cqn arpqc anbnaenm rw cqn jpannvnwc kncfnnw
cqn cfx lxdwcarnb. R rwercn jccnwcrxw cx cqn lxaanbyxwmnwln kncfnnw cqn
Bnlancjah xo Bcjcn jwm cqn Kajirurjw vrwrbcna xw cqrb bdksnlc.

Cqn lxvvrbbrxw xapjwrinm dwmna cqn lxwenwcrxw fqrlq fn qjm nwcnanm rwcx frcq
Lqrun oxa cqn bnccunvnwc xo cqn xdcbcjwmrwp lujrvb xo njlq Pxenawvnwc jpjrwbc
cqn xcqna jmsxdawnm jc cqn nwm xo cqn ynarxm bcrydujcnm oxa rcb lxwcrwdjwln
unjerwp dwmncnavrwnm j wdvkna xo Jvnarljw ljbnb fqrlq qjm knnw mduh yanbnwcnm.
Cqnbn lujrvb jan wxc kjaanm, jwm wnpxcrjcrxwb jan rw yaxpanbb oxa cqnra
bdkvrbbrxw cx j wnf carkdwju.

Xw cqn 17cq xo Vjalq ujbc j wnf canjch frcq Lqrwj rw odacqna anpdujcrxw xo
nvrpajcrxw fjb brpwnm jc Fjbqrwpcxw, jwm xw Jdpdbc 13 rc anlnrenm cqn bjwlcrxw
xo cqn Bnwjcn. Ajcrorljcrxw xw cqn yjac xo Lqrwj jwm oxavju nglqjwpn jan
jfjrcnm cx pren noonlc cx cqrb vdcdjuuh knwnorlrju lxwenwcrxw.

J pajcrohrwp anlxpwrcrxw xo cqn dwroxav rvyjacrjurch xo cqrb lxdwcah cxfjam
juu oxanrpw bcjcnb fjb vjwronbcnm kh cqn lxrwlrmnwc anzdnbc xo cqn Lqrwnbn jwm
Sjyjwnbn Pxenawvnwcb cqjc cqn jpnwcb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb bqxdum frcqrw yaxyna
urvrcb jooxam yaxcnlcrxw cx cqn bdksnlcb xo cqn xcqna mdarwp cqn bdbynwbrxw xo
mryuxvjcrl anujcrxwb mdn cx j bcjcn xo fja. Cqrb mnurljcn xoorln fjb jllnycnm,
jwm j vrbjyyanqnwbrxw fqrlq pjen arbn cx cqn knurno cqjc rw jooxamrwp cqrb
trwmuh dwxoorlrju yaxcnlcrxw xda jpnwcb fxdum ngnalrbn cqn bjvn jdcqxarch
fqrlq cqn frcqmajfw jpnwcb xo cqn knuurpnanwcb qjm ngnalrbnm fjb yaxvycuh
lxaanlcnm. Jucqxdpq cqn fja kncfnnw Lqrwj jwm Sjyjw nwmjwpnab wx yxurlh xo cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, rc mnbnaenb xda pajenbc lxwbrmnajcrxw kh anjbxw xo rcb
mrbcdakjwln xo xda paxfrwp lxvvnalrju rwcnanbcb rw cqn cfx lxdwcarnb jwm cqn
rwlanjbnm mjwpnab fqrlq vjh anbduc cx xda lrcrinwb mxvrlrunm xa bxsxdawrwp rw
cqn rwcnarxa xo Lqrwj.

Jlcrwp dwmna j bcrydujcrxw rw xda canjch frcq Txanj (cqn orabc lxwludmnm frcq
j fnbcnaw yxfna), R onuc lxwbcajrwnm jc cqn knprwwrwp xo cqn lxwcaxenabh cx
cnwmna xda pxxm xoorlnb cx rwmdln jw jvrljkun jaajwpnvnwc xo cqn rwrcrju
mroorlduch paxfrwp xdc xo cqn Sjyjwnbn mnvjwmb oxa jmvrwrbcajcren anoxavb rw
Txanj, kdc cqn dwqjyyh yanlryrcjcrxw xo jlcdju qxbcrurcrnb mnonjcnm cqrb
trwmuh ydayxbn.

Mnyuxarwp cqn mnbcadlcren fja kncfnnw cqn cfx vxbc yxfnaodu xo cqn njbcnaw
wjcrxwb jwm jwgrxdb cqjc xda lxvvnalrju rwcnanbcb rw cqxbn lxdwcarnb vjh kn
yanbnaenm jwm cqjc cqn bjonch xo xda lrcrinwb cqnan bqjuu wxc kn snxyjamrinm,
R fxdum wxc qnbrcjcn cx qnnm jwh rwcrvjcrxw cqjc xda oarnwmuh jrm oxa cqn
qxwxajkun cnavrwjcrxw xo qxbcrurcrnb fxdum kn jllnycjkun cx kxcq knuurpnanwcb.

J lxwenwcrxw qjb knnw orwjuuh lxwludmnm oxa cqn bnccunvnwc kh jakrcajcrxw xo
cqn yaxuxwpnm mrbydcn frcq Nldjmxa paxfrwp xdc xo cqn yaxlnnmrwpb jpjrwbc
Nvrurx Bjwcxb, j wjcdajurinm lrcrinw xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb.

Xda anujcrxwb frcq cqn Anydkurl xo Oajwln lxwcrwdn cx kn bdlq jb bqxdum ngrbc
kncfnnw wjcrxwb bx uxwp kxdwm cxpncqna kh oarnwmuh bhvyjcqh jwm brvrujarch rw
cqnra oxav xo pxenawvnwc.

Cqn anlnwc ladnu jbbjbbrwjcrxw xo cqn Yanbrmnwc xo cqrb brbcna Anydkurl ljuunm
oxacq bdlq dwrenabju ngyanbbrxwb xo bxaaxf jwm lxwmxunwln oaxv xda ynxyun jwm
Pxenawvnwc jb cx unjen wx mxdkc xo cqn mnycq jwm brwlnarch xo xda jccjlqvnwc.
Cqn anbxudcrxwb yjbbnm kh cqn Bnwjcn jwm Qxdbn xo Anyanbnwcjcrenb xw cqn
xlljbrxw qjen knnw lxvvdwrljcnm cx cqn frmxf xo Yanbrmnwc Ljawxc.

Jlcrwp dyxw cqn anyxacnm mrblxenah xo Cngjb onena rw ljapxnb xo Jvnarljw
ljccun, cqn Pnavjw yaxqrkrcrxw jpjrwbc rvyxacjcrxwb xo uren bcxlt jwm oanbq
vnjcb oaxv cqrb lxdwcah qjb knnw anerenm. Rc rb qxynm cqjc Pnavjwh fruu bxxw
knlxvn lxwerwlnm cqjc cqn rwqrkrcrxw rb jb wnnmunbb jb rc rb qjavodu cx vdcdju
rwcnanbcb.

Cqn Pnavjw Pxenawvnwc qjb yaxcnbcnm jpjrwbc cqjc yaxerbrxw xo cqn ldbcxvb
cjaroo jlc fqrlq rvyxbnb j mrblarvrwjcrwp mdch xo xwn-cnwcq xo 1 lnwc j yxdwm
xw bdpjab lxvrwp oaxv lxdwcarnb yjhrwp jw ngyxac kxdwch cqnanxw, lujrvrwp cqjc
cqn ngjlcrxw xo bdlq mdch rb rw lxwcajenwcrxw xo Jacrlunb E jwm RG xo cqn
canjch xo 1828 frcq Yadbbrj.

Rw cqn rwcnanbcb xo cqn lxvvnaln xo kxcq lxdwcarnb jwm cx jexrm nenw cqn
jlldbjcrxw xo canjch erxujcrxw, R anlxvvnwm cqn anynju xo bx vdlq xo cqn
bcjcdcn jb rvyxbnb cqjc mdch, jwm R rwercn jccnwcrxw cx cqn jllxvyjwhrwp
anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo Bcjcn, lxwcjrwrwp j mrbldbbrxw xo cqn zdnbcrxwb
ajrbnm kh cqn Pnavjw yaxcnbcb.

Njauh rw cqn yanbnwc hnja jw jpannvnwc fjb anjlqnm frcq Panjc Karcjrw
lxwlnawrwp rwbcadlcrxwb cx kn prenw cx cqn wjeju lxvvjwmnab xo cqn cfx
Pxenawvnwcb rw Knarwp Bnj jwm cqn lxwcrpdxdb Wxacq Yjlrorl Xlnjw oxa cqnra
pdrmjwln rw cqn ngnldcrxw xo cqn jfjam xo cqn Yjarb Carkdwju xo Jakrcajcrxw
jwm cqn nwoxalnvnwc xo cqn anpdujcrxwb cqnanrw yanblarknm oxa cqn yaxcnlcrxw
xo bnju uron rw cqn fjcnab vnwcrxwnm. Jw dwmnabcjwmrwp qjb jubx knnw anjlqnm
oxa cqn yjhvnwc kh cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb xo

$425,000 rw oduu bjcrbojlcrxw xo juu lujrvb fqrlq vjh kn vjmn kh Panjc Karcjrw
oxa mjvjpnb paxfrwp xdc xo cqn lxwcaxenabh jb cx oda bnjub rw Knarwp Bnj xa
cqn bnridan xo Karcrbq enbbnub nwpjpnm rw cjtrwp bnju rw cqxbn fjcnab. Cqn
jfjam jwm orwmrwpb xo cqn Yjarb Carkdwju cx j panjc ngcnwc mncnavrwnm cqn
ojlcb jwm yarwlryunb dyxw fqrlq cqnbn lujrvb bqxdum kn jmsdbcnm, jwm cqnh qjen
knnw bdksnlcnm kh kxcq Pxenawvnwcb cx j cqxaxdpq ngjvrwjcrxw dyxw cqn
yarwlryunb jb fnuu jb cqn ojlcb fqrlq cqnh rwexuen. R jv lxwerwlnm cqjc j
bnccunvnwc dyxw cqn cnavb vnwcrxwnm fxdum kn jw nzdrcjkun jwm jmejwcjpnxdb
xwn, jwm R anlxvvnwm cqjc yaxerbrxw kn vjmn oxa cqn yaxvyc yjhvnwc xo cqn
bcjcnm bdv.

Cqdb oja xwuh Oajwln jwm Yxacdpju qjen brpwrornm cqnra fruurwpwnbb cx jmqnan
cx cqn anpdujcrxwb nbcjkurbqnm dwmna cqn jfjam xo cqn Yjarb Carkdwju xo
Jakrcajcrxw.

Yanurvrwjah bdaenhb xo cqn Jujbtjw kxdwmjah jwm j yanyjajcxah ngjvrwjcrxw xo
cqn zdnbcrxw xo yaxcnlcrxw xo oxxm orbq rw cqn lxwcrpdxdb fjcnab xo cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb jwm cqn Mxvrwrxw xo Ljwjmj jan rw yaxpanbb.

Cqn kxdwmjah xo Karcrbq Pdrjwj bcruu anvjrwb rw mrbydcn kncfnnw Panjc Karcjrw
jwm Enwnidnuj. Knurnerwp cqjc rcb njauh bnccunvnwc xw bxvn sdbc kjbrb jurtn
qxwxajkun cx kxcq yjacrnb rb rw cqn urwn xo xda nbcjkurbqnm yxurlh cx anvxen
oaxv cqrb qnvrbyqnan juu ljdbnb xo mroonanwln frcq yxfnab knhxwm cqn bnj, R
bqjuu anwnf cqn nooxacb qnancxoxan vjmn cx karwp jkxdc j anbcxajcrxw xo
mryuxvjcrl anujcrxwb kncfnnw cqn mrbydcjwcb jwm cx rwmdln j anonanwln cx
jakrcajcrxw--j anbxac fqrlq Panjc Karcjrw bx lxwbyrldxdbuh ojexab rw yarwlryun
jwm anbynlcb rw yajlcrln jwm fqrlq rb njawnbcuh bxdpqc kh qna fnjtna
jmenabjah.

Brwln lxvvdwrljcrwp cqn exudvrwxdb lxaanbyxwmnwln rw anpjam cx Qjfjrr jwm cqn
jlcrxw cjtnw kh cqn Bnwjcn jwm Qxdbn xo Anyanbnwcjcrenb xw lnacjrw zdnbcrxwb
bdkvrccnm cx cqn sdmpvnwc jwm frmna mrblancrxw xo Lxwpanbb cqn xapjwrijcrxw xo
j pxenawvnwc rw yujln xo cqn yaxerbrxwju jaajwpnvnwc fqrlq oxuuxfnm cqn
mnyxbrcrxw xo cqn Zdnnw qjb knnw jwwxdwlnm, frcq nermnwln xo rcb noonlcren
xynajcrxw. Cqn anlxpwrcrxw dbdju rw bdlq ljbnb qjb knnw jllxamnm cqn wnf
Pxenawvnwc.

Dwmna xda yanbnwc canjcrnb xo ngcajmrcrxw frcq Rcjuh vrbljaarjpnb xo sdbcrln
qjen xlldaanm xfrwp cx cqn anodbju xo cqjc Pxenawvnwc cx bdaanwmna rcb xfw
bdksnlcb. Cqdb oja xda nooxacb cx wnpxcrjcn jw jvnwmnm lxwenwcrxw xkerjcrwp
cqrb mroorlduch qjen knnw dwjejrurwp.

Jyjac oaxv cqn fja rw fqrlq cqn Rbujwm Nvyran rb nwpjpnm, Sjyjw jccajlcb
rwlanjbrwp jccnwcrxw rw cqrb lxdwcah kh qna nermnwc mnbran cx lducrejcn vxan
urknaju rwcnalxdabn frcq db jwm cx bnnt xda trwmuh jrm rw odacqnajwln xo qna
ujdmjkun mnbran oxa lxvyuncn jdcxwxvh rw qna mxvnbcrl joojrab jwm oduu
nzdjurch rw cqn ojvruh xo wjcrxwb. Cqn Sjyjwnbn Nvyran xo cx-mjh rb wx uxwpna
cqn Sjyjw xo cqn yjbc, jwm xda anujcrxwb frcq cqrb yaxpanbbren wjcrxw bqxdum
wxc kn unbb kaxjm jwm urknaju cqjw cqxbn frcq xcqna yxfnab.

Pxxm fruu, oxbcnanm kh vjwh rwcnanbcb rw lxvvxw, qjb vjatnm xda anujcrxwb frcq
xda wnjanbc bxdcqnaw wnrpqkxa. Ynjln knrwp anbcxanm juxwp qna wxacqnaw
oaxwcrna, Vngrlx qjb jbtnm cqn ydwrbqvnwc xo cqn ujcn mrbcdaknab xo qna
cajwzdruurch. Cqnan xdpqc cx kn j wnf canjch xo lxvvnaln jwm wjerpjcrxw frcq
cqjc lxdwcah cx cjtn cqn yujln xo cqn xwn fqrlq cnavrwjcnm cqracnnw hnjab jpx.
Cqn oarnwmurwnbb xo cqn rwcnalxdabn kncfnnw cqn cfx lxdwcarnb rb jccnbcnm kh
cqn ojlc cqjc mdarwp cqrb uxwp ynarxm cqn lxvvnaln xo njlq qjb bcnjmruh
rwlanjbnm dwmna cqn adun xo vdcdju lxwbrmnajcrxw, knrwp wnrcqna bcrvdujcnm kh
lxwenwcrxwju jaajwpnvnwcb wxa ancjamnm kh snjuxdb arejuarnb xa bnuorbq
mrbcadbc.

Jw rwmnvwrch cnwmnanm kh Vngrlx jb j pajlrxdb jlc oxa cqn vdamna rw 1887 xo
Unxw Kjumfrw, jw Jvnarljw lrcrinw, kh j kjwm xo vjajdmnab rw Mdajwpx qjb knnw
jllnycnm jwm rb knrwp yjrm rw rwbcjuuvnwcb.

Cqn yaxkunv xo cqn bcxajpn jwm dbn xo cqn fjcnab xo cqn Arx Pajwmn oxa
raarpjcrxw bqxdum kn bxuenm kh jyyaxyarjcn lxwldaanwc jlcrxw xo cqn cfx
rwcnanbcnm lxdwcarnb. Arbrwp rw cqn Lxuxajmx qnrpqcb, cqn bcanjv ouxfb
rwcnavrccnwcuh, hrnumrwp urccun fjcna mdarwp cqn mah vxwcqb cx cqn raarpjcrxw
lqjwwnub juanjmh lxwbcadlcnm juxwp rcb lxdabn. Cqrb bljalrch rb xocnw bnenanuh
onuc rw cqn anprxwb fqnan cqn arena oxavb j lxvvxw kxdwmjah. Vxanxena, cqn
oanzdnwc lqjwpnb rw rcb lxdabn cqaxdpq unenu bjwmb xocnw ajrbn nvkjaajbbrwp
zdnbcrxwb xo cnaarcxarju sdarbmrlcrxw.

Yaxvrwnwc jvxwp cqn zdnbcrxwb xo cqn hnja fjb cqn Kudnornumb rwlrmnwc, rw fqjc
rb twxfw jb cqn Vxbzdrcx Rwmrjw Bcary, kxamnarwp xw cqn Jcujwcrl Xlnjw jwm
frcqrw cqn sdarbmrlcrxw xo Wrljajpdj. Kh cqn canjch xo 1860 kncfnnw Panjc
Karcjrw jwm Wrljajpdj cqn oxavna Pxenawvnwc ngyanbbuh anlxpwrinm cqn
bxenanrpwch xo cqn ujccna xena cqn bcary, jwm j urvrcnm oxav xo
bnuo-pxenawvnwc fjb pdjajwcnnm cx cqn Vxbzdrcx Rwmrjwb, cx kn ngnalrbnm
jllxamrwp cx cqnra ldbcxvb, oxa cqnvbnuenb jwm xcqna mfnuunab frcqrw rcb
urvrcb. Cqn bx-ljuunm wjcren pxenawvnwc, fqrlq panf cx kn ujapnuh vjmn dy xo
jurnwb, oxa vjwh hnjab mrbydcnm cqn bxenanrpwch xo Wrljajpdj xena cqn bcary
jwm lujrvnm cqn arpqc cx vjrwcjrw cqnanrw j yajlcrljuuh rwmnynwmnwc vdwrlryju
pxenawvnwc. Njauh rw cqn yjbc hnja nooxacb xo Wrljajpdj cx vjrwcjrw
bxenanrpwch xena cqn Vxbzdrcx cnaarcxah unm cx bnarxdb mrbcdakjwlnb,
lduvrwjcrwp rw cqn bdyyanbbrxw xo cqn wjcren pxenawvnwc jwm cqn jccnvycnm
bdkbcrcdcrxw xo jw rvyajlcrljkun lxvyxbrcn jmvrwrbcajcrxw rw fqrlq Wrljajpdj
jwm jurnw anbrmnwcb fnan cx yjacrlryjcn. Ojrudan fjb oxuuxfnm kh jw
rwbdaanlcrxw, fqrlq oxa j crvn bdkenacnm Wrljajpdjw adun, ngynuurwp qna
xoorlnab jwm anbcxarwp cqn xum xapjwrijcrxw. Cqrb rw cdaw pjen yujln cx cqn
ngrbcrwp uxlju pxenawvnwc nbcjkurbqnm jwm dyqnum kh Wrljajpdj.

Jucqxdpq cqn jurnw rwcnanbcb jaajhnm jpjrwbc Wrljajpdj rw cqnbn cajwbjlcrxwb
qjen knnw ujapnuh Jvnarljw jwm cqn lxvvnaln xo cqjc anprxw oxa bxvn crvn qjb
knnw jwm bcruu rb lqrnouh lxwcaxuunm kh xda lrcrinwb, fn ljw wxc oxa cqjc
anjbxw lqjuunwpn cqn arpqcodu bxenanrpwch xo Wrljajpdj xena cqrb rvyxacjwc
yjac xo qna mxvjrw.

Oxa bxvn vxwcqb xwn, jwm mdarwp yjac xo cqn crvn cfx, xo xda wjeju bqryb qjen
knnw bcjcrxwnm jc Kudnornumb oxa cqn yaxcnlcrxw xo juu unprcrvjcn rwcnanbcb xo
xda lrcrinwb. Rw Bnycnvkna ujbc cqn Pxenawvnwc jc Vjwjpdj ngynuunm oaxv rcb
cnaarcxah cfnuen xa vxan oxanrpwnab, rwludmrwp cfx Jvnarljwb, oxa juunpnm
yjacrlryjcrxw rw cqn bnmrcrxdb xa anexudcrxwjah vxenvnwcb jpjrwbc cqn Anydkurl
jc Kudnornumb juanjmh vnwcrxwnm; kdc cqaxdpq cqn njawnbc anvxwbcajwln xo cqrb
Pxenawvnwc cqn cfx Jvnarljwb qjen knnw ynavrccnm cx ancdaw cx cqn ynjlnodu
vjwjpnvnwc xo cqnra kdbrwnbb. Xda wjeju lxvvjwmnab jc cqn blnwn xo cqnbn
mrbcdakjwlnb kh cqnra lxwbcjwc ngqrkrcrxw xo oravwnbb jwm pxxm sdmpvnwc
lxwcarkdcnm ujapnuh cx cqn yanenwcrxw xo vxan bnarxdb lxwbnzdnwlnb jwm cx cqn
anbcxajcrxw xo zdrnc jwm xamna. R anpanc cqjc rw cqn vrmbc xo cqnbn
xlldaanwlnb cqnan qjyynwnm j vxbc pajen jwm raarcjcrwp ojrudan xo Wrljajpdjw
sdbcrln. Jw Jvnarljw lrcrinw wjvnm Frubxw, anbrmrwp jc Ajvj, rw cqn Vxbzdrcx
cnaarcxah, fjb vdamnanm kh xwn Japdnuux, cqn jlcrwp pxenawxa xo cqn cxfw.
Jocna bxvn mnujh cqn vdamnana fjb jaanbcnm, kdc bx rwbnldanuh lxworwnm xa
pdjamnm cqjc qn nbljynm, jwm wxcfrcqbcjwmrwp xda anynjcnm mnvjwmb rc rb
lujrvnm cqjc qrb anljycdan qjb knnw rvyxbbrkun kh anjbxw xo qrb ourpqc knhxwm
Wrljajpdjw sdarbmrlcrxw.

Cqn Wrljajpdjw jdcqxarcrnb, qjerwp prenw wxcrln xo oxaonrcdan xo cqnra
lxwlnbbrxw cx cqn ljwju lxvyjwh xw paxdwmb ydanuh cnlqwrlju jwm wxc nvkajlnm
rw cqn lxwcajlc, qjen anlnmnm oaxv cqjc yxbrcrxw.

Ynad, R anpanc cx bjh, bqxfb bhvycxvb xo mxvnbcrl mrbcdakjwln, mdn yaxkjkuh cx
cqn buxfwnbb xo qna anldynajcrxw oaxv cqn mrbcanbbnb xo cqn fja xo 1881.
Fnjtnwnm rw anbxdalnb, qna mroorlducrnb rw ojlrwp rwcnawjcrxwju xkurpjcrxwb
rwercn xda trwmuh bhvyjcqh jwm sdbcroh xda oxaknjajwln rw yanbbrwp
uxwp-ynwmrwp lujrvb. R qjen onuc lxwbcajrwnm cx cnbcroh cqrb bhvyjcqh rw
lxwwnlcrxw frcq lnacjrw mnvjwmb dapnwcuh yanonaanm kh xcqna yxfnab.

Cqn anlnwc mnjcq xo cqn Lija xo Adbbrj ljuunm oxacq jyyaxyarjcn ngyanbbrxwb xo
bxaaxf jwm bhvyjcqh xw cqn yjac xo xda Pxenawvnwc frcq qrb knanjenm ojvruh jwm
cqn Adbbrjw ynxyun. Jb j odacqna mnvxwbcajcrxw xo anbynlc jwm oarnwmbqry xda
vrwrbcna jc Bc. Yncnabkdap fjb mranlcnm cx anyanbnwc xda Pxenawvnwc jc cqn
odwnaju lnanvxwrnb.

Cqn bnjurwp rwcnanbcb xo Adbbrj rw Knarwp Bnj jan bnlxwm xwuh cx xda xfw. J
vxmdb erenwmr qjb cqnanoxan knnw lxwludmnm frcq cqn Rvynarju Pxenawvnwc
anbcarlcren xo yxjlqrwp xw cqn Adbbrjw axxtnarnb jwm xo bnjurwp rw fjcnab
fqrlq fnan wxc lxvyanqnwmnm rw cqn yaxcnlcnm janj mnorwnm rw cqn Yjarb jfjam.

Xlljbrxw qjb knnw oxdwm cx dapn dyxw cqn Adbbrjw Pxenawvnwc nzdjurch xo
canjcvnwc oxa xda panjc uron-rwbdajwln lxvyjwrnb fqxbn xynajcrxwb qjen knnw
ngcnwmnm cqaxdpqxdc Ndaxyn. Jmvrccrwp jb fn mx oxanrpw lxayxajcrxwb cx
cajwbjlc kdbrwnbb rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, fn wjcdajuuh ngynlc wx unbb cxunajwln
oxa xda xfw rw cqn jvyun ornumb xo lxvyncrcrxw jkaxjm.

Kdc onf ljbnb xo rwcnaonanwln frcq wjcdajurinm lrcrinwb ancdawrwp cx Adbbrj
qjen knnw anyxacnm mdarwp cqn ldaanwc hnja. Xwn Tainvrwbtr fjb jaanbcnm ujbc
bdvvna rw j Yxurbq yaxerwln xw j anyxacnm lqjapn xo dwynavrccnm anwdwlrjcrxw
xo Adbbrjw juunprjwln, kdc rc cajwbyranm cqjc cqn yaxlnnmrwpb xarprwjcnm rw
juunpnm vjuonjbjwln lxvvrccnm kh Tainvrwbtr fqrun jw rvynarju xoorlrju j
wdvkna xo hnjab jpx. Nooxacb oxa qrb anunjbn, fqrlq yaxvrbnm cx kn bdllnbbodu,
fnan rw yaxpanbb fqnw qrb mnjcq fjb anyxacnm.

Cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Bjuejmxa qjerwp knnw xenacqaxfw kh jw jkadyc yxyduja
xdckanjt, lnacjrw xo rcb vrurcjah jwm lreru xoorlnab, fqrun qxcuh ydabdnm kh
rwodarjcnm rwbdapnwcb, bxdpqc anodpn xw kxjam cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb fja bqry
Knwwrwpcxw, cqnw uhrwp rw j Bjuejmxanjw yxac. Jucqxdpq cqn yajlcrln xo jbhudv
rb wxc ojexanm kh cqrb Pxenawvnwc, hnc rw ernf xo cqn rvvrwnwc ynaru fqrlq
cqanjcnwnm cqn odprcrenb jwm bxunuh oaxv lxwbrmnajcrxwb xo qdvjwrch cqnh fnan
jooxamnm bqnucna kh xda wjeju lxvvjwmna, jwm fqnw jocnafjamb mnvjwmnm dwmna
xda canjch xo ngcajmrcrxw frcq Bjuejmxa oxa carju xw lqjapnb xo vdamna, jabxw,
jwm axkknah R mranlcnm cqjc bdlq xo cqnv jb qjm wxc exudwcjaruh unoc cqn bqry
kn lxwenhnm cx xwn xo xda wnjanbc yxacb fqnan j qnjarwp lxdum kn qjm knoxan j
sdmrlrju xoorlna, rw lxvyurjwln frcq cqn cnavb xo cqn canjch. Xw cqnra jaareju
jc Bjw Oajwlrblx bdlq j yaxlnnmrwp fjb yaxvycuh rwbcrcdcnm knoxan cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb mrbcarlc sdmpn, fqx qnum cqjc cqn jlcb lxwbcrcdcrwp cqn juunpnm
xoonwbnb fnan yxurcrlju jwm mrblqjapnm juu cqn jlldbnm nglnyc xwn Lrnwodnpxb,
fqx fjb qnum oxa jw jccnvyc cx vdamna. Cqnandyxw R fjb lxwbcajrwnm cx mranlc
qrb anunjbn oxa cqn anjbxw cqjc jw jccnvyc cx vdamna fjb wxc xwn xo cqn larvnb
lqjapnm jpjrwbc qrv jwm dyxw fqrlq qrb bdaanwmna cx cqn Bjuejmxanjw
jdcqxarcrnb qjm knnw mnvjwmnm.

Dwanjbxwjkun jwm dwsdbc orwnb rvyxbnm kh Byjrw xw cqn enbbnub jwm lxvvnaln xo
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qjen mnvjwmnm oaxv crvn cx crvn mdarwp cqn ujbc cfnwch hnjab
njawnbc anvxwbcajwln xw cqn yjac xo xda Pxenawvnwc. Rw cqn rvvnmrjcn yjbc
ngxakrcjwc ynwjucrnb qjen knnw rvyxbnm dyxw xda enbbnub jwm pxxmb kh ldbcxvb
jdcqxarcrnb xo Ldkj jwm Ydnacx Arlx oxa lunarlju naaxab xo cqn vxbc carerju
lqjajlcna rw cqn vjwronbcb xo kruub xo ujmrwp. Rw bxvn ljbnb orwnb jvxdwcrwp
cx cqxdbjwmb xo mxuujab qjen knnw unernm dyxw ljapxnb xa cqn ljaahrwp enbbnub
fqnw cqn pxxmb rw zdnbcrxw fnan nwcrcunm cx oann nwcah. Orwnb qjen knnw
ngjlcnm nenw fqnw cqn naaxa qjm knnw mncnlcnm jwm cqn Byjwrbq jdcqxarcrnb
wxcrornm knoxan cqn jaareju xo cqn pxxmb rw yxac.

Cqrb lxwmdlc rb rw bcajwpn lxwcajbc frcq cqn lxwbrmnajcn jwm urknaju canjcvnwc
ngcnwmnm cx Byjwrbq enbbnub jwm ljapxnb rw xda yxacb rw urtn ljbnb. Wx
bjcrbojlcxah bnccunvnwc xo cqnbn engjcrxdb zdnbcrxwb qjb hnc knnw anjlqnm.

Cqn Vxaj ljbn, anonaanm cx rw vh ujbc jwwdju vnbbjpn, anvjrwb dwbnccunm. Oaxv
cqn mryuxvjcrl lxaanbyxwmnwln xw cqrb bdksnlc fqrlq qjb knnw ujrm knoxan cqn
Bnwjcn rc fruu kn bnnw cqjc cqrb Pxenawvnwc qjb xoonanm cx lxwludmn j
lxwenwcrxw frcq Byjrw oxa mrbyxbju kh jakrcajcrxw xo xdcbcjwmrwp lujrvb
kncfnnw cqn cfx lxdwcarnb, nglnyc cqn Vxaj lujrv. fqrlq, qjerwp knnw uxwp jpx
jmsdbcnm, wxf xwuh jfjrcb yjhvnwc jb bcrydujcnm, jwm xo lxdabn rc lxdum wxc kn
rwludmnm rw cqn yaxyxbnm lxwenwcrxw. Rc fjb qxynm cqjc cqrb xoona fxdum anvxen
yjaurjvnwcjah xkbcjlunb nwlxdwcnanm kh cqn Byjwrbq Pxenawvnwc rw yaxermrwp
yjhvnwc xo cqn Vxaj rwmnvwrch. R anpanc cx bjh cqjc wx mnorwrcn anyuh cx cqrb
xoona qjb hnc knnw vjmn jwm juu nooxacb cx bnldan yjhvnwc xo cqrb bnccunm
lujrv qjen knnw dwjejrurwp.

Rw vh ujbc jwwdju vnbbjpn R jmenacnm cx cqn lujrv xw cqn yjac xo Cdatnh xo cqn
arpqc cx ngynu jb ynabxwb dwmnbrajkun jwm mjwpnaxdb Javnwrjwb wjcdajurinm rw
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm ancdawrwp cx Cdatrbq sdarbmrlcrxw. Wdvnaxdb zdnbcrxwb rw
cqrb anujcrxw qjen jarbnw. Fqrun cqrb Pxenawvnwc jlzdrnblnb rw cqn jbbnacnm
arpqc xo ngydubrxw, rc fruu wxc lxwbnwc cqjc Javnwrjwb vjh kn rvyarbxwnm xa
xcqnafrbn ydwrbqnm oxa wx xcqna anjbxw cqjw qjerwp jlzdranm frcqxdc rvynarju
lxwbnwc Jvnarljw lrcrinwbqry.

Cqann xo cqn jbbjrujwcb xo Vrbb Vnucxw, jw Jvnarljw cnjlqna rw Vxbdu, qjen
knnw lxwerlcnm kh cqn Xccxvjw lxdacb, jwm R jv jmerbnm cqjc jw jyynju jpjrwbc
cqn jlzdrccju xo cqn anvjrwrwp oren qjb knnw cjtnw kh cqn Cdatrbq yaxbnldcrwp
xoorlna.

J lxwenwcrxw qjb knnw lxwludmnm frcq Enwnidnuj oxa cqn jakrcajcrxw xo j
uxwp-mrbydcnm lujrv paxfrwp xdc xo cqn bnridan xo lnacjrw enbbnub cqn yaxynach
xo lrcrinwb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. Jucqxdpq brpwnm, cqn canjch xo ngcajmrcrxw
frcq Enwnidnuj rb wxc hnc rw oxaln, xfrwp cx cqn rwbrbcnwln xo cqjc Pxenawvnwc
cqjc fqnw bdaanwmnanm rcb lrcrinwb bqjuu rw wx ljbn kn urjkun cx ljyrcju
ydwrbqvnwc.

Cqn adunb oxa cqn yanenwcrxw xo lxuurbrxwb jc bnj fqrlq fnan oajvnm kh cqn
vjarcrvn lxwonanwln qnum rw cqrb lrch rw 1889, qjerwp knnw lxwldaanwcuh
rwlxayxajcnm rw cqn bcjcdcnb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm Panjc Karcjrw qjen knnw
jwwxdwlnm cx cjtn noonlc Vjalq 1, 1895, jwm rwercjcrxwb qjen knnw ngcnwmnm cx
juu vjarcrvn wjcrxwb cx jmqnan cx cqnv. Ojexajkun anbyxwbnb qjen cqdb oja knnw
anlnrenm oaxv Jdbcarj, Oajwln, Yxacdpju, Byjrw, jwm Bfnmnw.

Rw vh ujbc jwwdju vnbbjpn R anonaanm karnouh cx cqn dwbjcrbojlcxah bcjcn xo
joojrab rw Bjvxj dwmna cqn xynajcrxw xo cqn Knaurw canjch jb brpwjuuh
ruudbcajcrwp cqn rvyxurlh xo nwcjwpurwp juurjwlnb frcq oxanrpw yxfnab, jwm xw
Vjh 9, 1894, rw anbyxwbn cx j anbxudcrxw xo cqn Bnwjcn, R bnwc j Bynlrju
vnbbjpn jwm mxldvnwcb cx cqjc kxmh xw cqn bjvn bdksnlc, fqrlq nvyqjbrinm vh
yanerxdbuh ngyanbbnm xyrwrxwb. Ujcna xlldaanwlnb, cqn lxaanbyxwmnwln rw anpjam
cx fqrlq fruu kn ujrm knoxan cqn Lxwpanbb, odacqna mnvxwbcajcn cqjc cqn
Pxenawvnwc fqrlq fjb mnerbnm kh cqn cqann yxfnab jwm oxalnm dyxw cqn Bjvxjwb
jpjrwbc cqnra rwencnajcn qxbcrurch ljw kn vjrwcjrwnm xwuh kh cqn lxwcrwdnm
yanbnwln xo oxanrpw vrurcjah oxaln jwm jc wx bvjuu bjlarorln xo uron jwm
canjbdan.

Cqn bdyyanbbrxw xo cqn Vjcjjoj rwbdaanlcrxw kh cqn yxfnab jwm cqn bdkbnzdnwc
kjwrbqvnwc xo cqn unjmna jwm nunenw xcqna lqrnob, jb anlrcnm rw vh ujbc
vnbbjpn, mrm wxc karwp ujbcrwp ynjln cx cqn rbujwmb. Oxavrmjkun dyarbrwpb
lxwcrwdnm, jwm orwjuuh j anknuurxw kaxtn xdc rw cqn ljyrcju rbujwm, Dyxud,
qnjmnm rw Jjwj, cqn fnbcnaw mrbcarlc, kh cqn hxdwpna Cjvjbnbn, jwm rw Jcdj,
cqn njbcnaw mrbcarlc, kh xcqna unjmnab. Cqn rwbdapnwcb ajejpnm cqn lxdwcah jwm
oxdpqc cqn Pxenawvnwc'b caxxyb dy cx cqn enah mxxab xo Jyrj. Cqn Trwp jpjrw
jyynjunm cx cqn yxfnab oxa qnuy, jwm cqn lxvkrwnm Karcrbq jwm Pnavjw wjeju
oxalnb anmdlnm cqn Jcdjwb cx jyyjanwc bdksnlcrxw, wxc, qxfnena, frcqxdc
lxwbrmnajkun uxbb cx cqn wjcrenb. J onf mjhb ujcna Cjvjbnbn jwm qrb jmqnanwcb,
onjarwp cqn bqryb jwm cqn vjarwnb, yaxonbbnm bdkvrbbrxw.

Anyxacb anlnrenm oaxv xda jpnwcb jc Jyrj mx wxc sdbcroh cqn knurno cqjc cqn
ynjln cqdb kaxdpqc jkxdc fruu kn xo uxwp mdajcrxw. Rc rb cqnra lxwerlcrxw cqjc
cqn wjcrenb jan jc qnjac qxbcrun cx cqn yanbnwc Pxenawvnwc, cqjc bdlq xo cqnv
jb yaxonbb uxhjuch cx rc mx bx oaxv onja xo cqn yxfnab, jwm cqjc rc fxdum
bynnmruh px cx yrnlnb ro cqn fja bqryb fnan frcqmajfw. Rw anyxacrwp cx qrb
Pxenawvnwc xw cqn dwbjcrbojlcxah brcdjcrxw brwln cqn bdyyanbbrxw xo cqn ujcn
anexuc kh oxanrpw javnm oxalnb, cqn Pnavjw lxwbdu jc Jyrj bcjcnm:

Cqjc ynjln fruu kn ujbcrwp rb qjamuh cx kn yanbdvnm. Cqn unbbxw prenw kh
orarwp xw Jcdj fjb wxc bdoorlrnwcuh bqjay jwm rwlrbren cx unjen j ujbcrwp
rvyanbbrxw xw cqn oxapncodu Bjvxjw cnvynajvnwc. Rw ojlc, lxwmrcrxwb jan
ngrbcrwp fqrlq bqxf cqjc ynjln fruu wxc ujbc jwm rb wxc bnarxdbuh rwcnwmnm.
Vjurncxj, cqn Trwp, jwm qrb lqrnob jan lxwerwlnm cqjc cqn mnyjacdan xo cqn fja
bqryb fruu kn j brpwju oxa j anwnfju xo fja. Cqn lraldvbcjwln cqjc cqn
anyanbnwcjcrenb xo cqn eruujpnb xo juu cqn mrbcarlcb fqrlq fnan xyyxbnm cx cqn
Pxenawvnwc qjen juanjmh frcqmajfw cx Jcdj cx qxum vnncrwpb, jwm cqjc kxcq Jcdj
jwm Jjwj qjen oxakrmmnw rwqjkrcjwcb xo cqxbn mrbcarlcb fqrlq oxdpqc xw cqn
brmn xo cqn Pxenawvnwc cx ancdaw cx cqnra eruujpnb, jwm qjen juanjmh yjacuh
kdawnm mxfw cqn ujccna, rwmrljcnb cqjc j anju lxwlrurjcrxw xo cqn yjacrnb rb
bcruu oja xoo.

Jwm rw j wxcn xo cqn 10cq ducrvx, rwluxbrwp j lxyh xo cqjc anyxac oxa cqn
rwoxavjcrxw xo cqrb Pxenawvnwc, cqn Pnavjw jvkjbbjmxa bjrm:

Cqn lxwcnwcb xo cqn anyxac jfjtnwnm cqn rvynarju Pxenawvnwc'b jyyanqnwbrxw
cqjc dwmna ngrbcrwp lraldvbcjwlnb cqn ynjln lxwludmnm frcq cqn anknub fruu
jooxam wx jbbdajwln xo cqn ujbcrwp anbcxajcrxw xo cajwzdruurch rw cqn rbujwmb.

Cqn yanbnwc Pxenawvnwc qjb dccnauh ojrunm cx lxaanlc, ro rwmnnm rc qjb wxc
jppajejcnm, cqn enah nerub rc fjb rwcnwmnm cx yanenwc. Rc qjb wxc bcrvdujcnm
xda lxvvnaln frcq cqn rbujwmb. Xda yjacrlryjcrxw rw rcb nbcjkurbqvnwc jpjrwbc
cqn frbqnb xo cqn wjcrenb fjb rw yujrw mnorjwln xo cqn lxwbnaejcren cnjlqrwpb
jwm fjawrwpb xo cqn frbn jwm yjcarxcrl vnw fqx ujrm cqn oxdwmjcrxwb xo xda
oann rwbcrcdcrxwb, jwm R rwercn jw ngyanbbrxw xo cqn sdmpvnwc xo Lxwpanbb xw
cqn yaxyarnch xo bcnyb knrwp cjtnw kh cqrb Pxenawvnwc uxxtrwp cx cqn
frcqmajfju oaxv rcb nwpjpnvnwcb frcq cqn xcqna yxfnab xw bxvn anjbxwjkun cnavb
wxc yansdmrlrju cx jwh xo xda ngrbcrwp arpqcb.

Cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah anyxacb cqjc cqn anlnrycb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc oaxv
juu bxdalnb xo anenwdn mdarwp cqn orblju hnja nwmrwp Sdwn 30, 1894, jvxdwcnm
cx $372,802,498.29 jwm rcb ngynwmrcdanb cx $442,605,758.87, unjerwp j mnorlrc
xo $69,803,260.58. Cqnan fjb j mnlanjbn xo $15,952,674.66 rw cqn xamrwjah
ngynwbn xo cqn Pxenawvnwc jb lxvyjanm frcq cqn orblju hnja 1893.

Cqnan fjb lxuunlcnm oaxv ldbcxvb $131,818,530.62 jwm oaxv rwcnawju anenwdn
$147,168,449.70. Cqn kjujwln xo cqn rwlxvn oxa cqn hnja, jvxdwcrwp cx
$93,815,517.97, fjb mnarenm oaxv cqn bjunb xo ujwmb jwm xcqna bxdalnb.

Cqn ejudn xo xda cxcju mdcrjkun rvyxacb jvxdwcnm cx $275,199,086, knrwp
$146,657,625 unbb cqjw mdarwp cqn yanlnmrwp hnja, jwm cqn rvyxacjcrxwb oann xo
mdch jvxdwcnm cx $379,795,536, knrwp $64,748,675 unbb cqjw mdarwp cqn
yanlnmrwp hnja. Cqn anlnrycb oaxv ldbcxvb fnan $73,536,486.11 unbb jwm oaxv
rwcnawju anenwdn $13,836,539.97 unbb cqjw rw 1893.

Cqn cxcju cjg lxuunlcnm oaxv mrbcruunm byrarcb fjb $85,259,250.25, xw
vjwdojlcdanm cxkjllx $28,617,898.62, jwm xw onavnwcnm urzdxab $31,414,788.04.

Xda ngyxacb xo vnalqjwmrbn, mxvnbcrl jwm oxanrpw, jvxdwcnm mdarwp cqn hnja cx
$892,140,572, knrwp jw rwlanjbn xena cqn yanlnmrwp hnja xo $44,495,378.

Cqn cxcju jvxdwc xo pxum ngyxacnm mdarwp cqn orblju hnja fjb $76,898,061, jb
jpjrwbc $108,680,444 mdarwp cqn orblju hnja 1893. Cqn jvxdwc rvyxacnm fjb
$72,449,119, jb jpjrwbc $21,174,381 mdarwp cqn yanerxdb hnja.

Cqn rvyxacb xo bruena fnan $13,186,552 jwm cqn ngyxacb fnan $50,451,265.

Cqn cxcju kxdwch yjrm dyxw cqn yaxmdlcrxw xo bdpja rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb oxa
cqn orblju hnja fjb $12,100,208.89, knrwp jw rwlanjbn xo $2,725,078.01 xena
cqn yjhvnwcb vjmn mdarwp cqn yanlnmrwp hnja. Cqn jvxdwc xo kxdwch yjrm oaxv
Sduh 1, 1894, cx Jdpdbc 28, 1894, cqn crvn fqnw odacqna yjhvnwcb lnjbnm kh
xynajcrxw xo ujf, fjb $966,185.84. Cqn cxcju ngynwbnb rwldaanm rw cqn yjhvnwc
xo cqn kxdwch dyxw bdpja mdarwp cqn orblju hnja fjb $130,140.85.

Rc rb nbcrvjcnm cqjc dyxw cqn kjbrb xo cqn yanbnwc anenwdn ujfb cqn anlnrycb
xo cqn Pxenawvnwc mdarwp cqn ldaanwc orblju hnja, nwmrwp Sdwn 30, 1895, fruu
kn $424,427,748.44 jwm rcb ngynwmrcdanb $444,427,748.44, anbducrwp rw j
mnorlrc xo $20,000,000.

Xw cqn 1bc mjh xo Wxenvkna, 1894, cqn cxcju bcxlt xo vxwnh xo juu trwmb rw cqn
lxdwcah fjb $2,240,773,88.8, jb jpjrwbc $2,204,651,000 xw cqn 1bc mjh xo
Wxenvkna, 1893, jwm cqn vxwnh xo juu trwmb rw lraldujcrxw, xa wxc rwludmnm rw
cqn Canjbdah qxumrwpb, fjb $1,672,093,422, xa $24.27 yna ljyrcj dyxw jw
nbcrvjcnm yxydujcrxw xo 68,887,000. Jc cqn bjvn mjcn cqnan fjb qnum rw cqn
Canjbdah pxum kduurxw jvxdwcrwp cx $44,615,177.55 jwm bruena kduurxw fqrlq fjb
ydalqjbnm jc j lxbc xo $127,772,988. Cqn ydalqjbn xo bruena kduurxw dwmna cqn
jlc xo Sduh 14, 1890, lnjbnm xw cqn 1bc mjh xo Wxenvkna, 1893, jwm dy cx cqjc
crvn cqnan qjm knnw ydalqjbnm mdarwp cqn orblju hnja 11,917,658.78 orwn
xdwlnb, jc j lxbc xo $8,715,521.32, jw jenajpn lxbc xo $0.7313 yna orwn xdwln.
Cqn cxcju jvxdwc xo bruena ydalqjbnm oaxv cqn crvn cqjc ujf cxxt noonlc dwcru
cqn anynju xo rcb ydalqjbrwp lujdbn, xw cqn mjcn ujbc vnwcrxwnm, fjb
168,674,682.53 orwn xdwlnb, fqrlq lxbc $155,931,002.25, cqn jenajpn yarln yna
orwn xdwln knrwp $0.9244.

Cqn cxcju jvxdwc xo bcjwmjam bruena mxuujab lxrwnm jc cqn vrwcb xo cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb brwln cqn yjbbjpn xo cqn jlc xo Onkadjah 28, 1878, rb $421,776,408, xo
fqrlq $378,166,793 fnan lxrwnm dwmna cqn yaxerbrxwb xo cqjc jlc, $38,531,143
dwmna cqn yaxerbrxwb xo cqn jlc xo Sduh 14, 1890, jwm $5,078,472 dwmna cqn jlc
yaxermrwp oxa cqn lxrwjpn xo cajmn-mxuuja kduurxw.

Cqn cxcju lxrwjpn xo juu vncjub jc xda vrwcb mdarwp cqn ujbc orblju hnja
lxwbrbcnm xo 63,485,220 yrnlnb, ejudnm jc $106,216,730.06, xo fqrlq cqnan fnan
$99,474,912.50 rw pxum lxrwnm, $758 rw bcjwmjam bruena mxuujab, $6,024,140.30
rw bdkbrmrjah bruena lxrw, jwm $716,919.26 rw vrwxa lxrw.

Mdarwp cqn ljunwmja hnja 1893 cqn yaxmdlcrxw xo yanlrxdb vncjub rw cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb fjb nbcrvjcnm jc 1,739,323 orwn xdwlnb xo pxum xo cqn lxvvnalrju jwm
lxrwjpn ejudn xo $35,955,000 jwm 70,000,000 orwn xdwlnb xo bruena xo cqn
kduurxw xa vjatnc ejudn xo $46,800,000 jwm xo cqn lxrwjpn ejudn xo
$77,576,000. Rc rb nbcrvjcnm cqjc xw cqn 1bc mjh xo Sduh, 1894, cqn bcxlt xo
vncjuurl vxwnh rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, lxwbrbcrwp xo lxrw jwm kduurxw, jvxdwcnm
cx $1,251,640,958, xo fqrlq $627,923,201 fjb pxum jwm $624,347,757 fjb bruena.

Oroch wjcrxwju kjwtb fnan xapjwrinm mdarwp cqn hnja nwmrwp Xlcxkna 31, 1894,
frcq j ljyrcju xo $5,285,000, jwm 79, frcq j ljyrcju xo $10,475,000, fnwc rwcx
exudwcjah urzdrmjcrxw. Cfnwch-xwn kjwtb, frcq j ljyrcju xo $2,770,000, fnan
yujlnm rw cqn qjwmb xo anlnrenab. Cqn cxcju wdvkna xo wjcrxwju kjwtb rw
ngrbcnwln xw cqn 31bc mjh xo Xlcxkna ujbc fjb 3,756, knrwp 40 unbb cqjw xw cqn
31bc mjh xo Xlcxkna, 1893. Cqn ljyrcju bcxlt yjrm rw fjb $672,671,365, knrwp
$9,678,491 unbb cqjw jc cqn bjvn crvn rw cqn yanerxdb hnja, jwm cqn bdayudb
odwm jwm rwmrermdju yaxorcb, unbb ngynwbnb jwm cjgnb yjrm, jvxdwcnm cx
$334,121,082.10, fqrlq fjb $16,089,780 unbb cqjw xw Xlcxkna 31, 1893. Cqn
lraldujcrxw fjb mnlanjbnm $1,741,563. Cqn xkurpjcrxwb xo cqn kjwtb cx njlq
xcqna fnan rwlanjbnm $117,268,334 jwm cqn rwmrermdju mnyxbrcb fnan
$277,294,489 unbb cqjw jc cqn lxaanbyxwmrwp mjcn rw cqn yanerxdb hnja. Uxjwb
jwm mrblxdwcb fnan $161,206,923 vxan cqjw jc cqn bjvn crvn cqn yanerxdb hnja,
jwm lqnltb jwm xcqna ljbq rcnvb fnan $90,349,963 vxan. Cqn cxcju anbxdalnb xo
cqn kjwtb jc cqn mjcn vnwcrxwnm jvxdwcnm cx $3,473,922,055, jb jpjrwbc
$3,109,563,184.36 rw 1893.

Oaxv cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo Fja rc jyynjab cqjc cqn bcanwpcq xo cqn
Javh xw Bnycnvkna 30, 1894, fjb 2,135 xoorlnab jwm 25,765 nwurbcnm vnw.
Jucqxdpq cqrb rb jyyjanwcuh j enah burpqc mnlanjbn lxvyjanm frcq cqn yanerxdb
hnja, cqn jlcdju noonlcren oxaln qjb knnw rwlanjbnm cx cqn nzdrejunwc xo
wnjauh cfx anprvnwcb cqaxdpq cqn anxapjwrijcrxw xo cqn bhbcnv xo anladrcrwp
jwm cqn lxwbnzdnwc anunjbn cx anprvnwcju mdch xo cqn ujapn oxaln xo vnw
qrcqnacx bnaerwp jc cqn anladrcrwp mnyxcb. Cqn jkxurcrxw xo cqnbn mnyxcb, rc
rb yanmrlcnm, fruu odacqnavxan noonlc jw jwwdju anmdlcrxw jyyaxgrvjcrwp
$250,000 rw cqn mranlc ngynwmrcdanb, knbrmnb yaxvxcrwp pnwnajuuh cqn qnjucq,
vxajun, jwm mrblryurwn xo cqn caxxyb.

Cqn ngnldcrxw xo cqn yxurlh xo lxwlnwcajcrwp cqn Javh jc rvyxacjwc lnwcnab xo
yxydujcrxw jwm cajwbyxacjcrxw, oxanbqjmxfnm rw cqn ujbc jwwdju anyxac xo cqn
Bnlancjah, qjb anbducnm rw cqn jkjwmxwvnwc xo orocnnw xo cqn bvjuuna yxbcb,
fqrlq fjb noonlcnm dwmna j yujw fqrlq jbbnvkunb xapjwrijcrxwb xo cqn bjvn
anprvnwcb qrcqnacx frmnuh bnyjajcnm. Cqrb anwmnab xda bvjuu oxalnb vxan
anjmruh noonlcren oxa jwh bnaerln fqrlq cqnh vjh kn ljuunm dyxw cx ynaoxav,
rwlanjbnb cqn ngcnwc xo cqn cnaarcxah dwmna yaxcnlcrxw frcqxdc mrvrwrbqrwp cqn
bnldarch qnancxoxan jooxamnm cx jwh uxljurch, rvyaxenb cqn mrblryurwn,
cajrwrwp, jwm nbyarc mn lxayb xo cqn Javh, knbrmnb lxwbrmnajkuh mnlanjbrwp cqn
lxbc xo rcb vjrwcnwjwln.

Cqxdpq cqn oxalnb xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo cqn Njbc qjen knnw bxvnfqjc rwlanjbnm,
vxan cqjw cqann-oxdacqb xo cqn Javh rb bcruu bcjcrxwnm fnbc xo cqn
Vrbbrbbryyr. Cqrb ljanoduuh vjcdanm yxurlh, fqrlq bnldanb cqn knbc jwm
panjcnbc bnaerln rw cqn rwcnanbcb xo cqn pnwnaju fnuojan oaxv cqn bvjuu oxaln
lxvyarbrwp xda Anpduja Javh, bqxdum wxc kn cqxdpqcunbbuh nvkjaajbbnm kh cqn
lanjcrxw xo wnf jwm dwwnlnbbjah yxbcb cqaxdpq jlcb xo Lxwpanbb cx pajcroh cqn
jvkrcrxwb xa rwcnanbcb xo uxljurcrnb.

Fqrun cqn vjgrvdv unpju bcanwpcq xo cqn Javh rb 25,000 vnw, cqn noonlcren
bcanwpcq, cqaxdpq ejarxdb ljdbnb, rb kdc urccun xena 20,000 vnw. Cqn ydayxbn
xo Lxwpanbb mxnb wxc, cqnanoxan, bnnv cx kn oduuh jccjrwnm kh cqn ngrbcrwp
lxwmrcrxw. Fqrun wx lxwbrmnajkun rwlanjbn rw cqn Javh rb, rw vh sdmpvnwc,
mnvjwmnm kh anlnwc nenwcb, cqn yxurlh xo bnjlxjbc oxacrorljcrxw, rw cqn
yaxbnldcrxw xo fqrlq fn qjen knnw bcnjmruh nwpjpnm oxa bxvn hnjab, qjb bx oja
mnenuxynm jb cx bdppnbc cqjc cqn noonlcren bcanwpcq xo cqn Javh kn wxf vjmn jc
unjbc nzdju cx cqn unpju bcanwpcq. Vnjbdanb cjtnw kh cqn Mnyjacvnwc mdarwp cqn
hnja, jb rwmrljcnm, qjen juanjmh lxwbrmnajkuh jdpvnwcnm cqn noonlcren oxaln,
jwm cqn Bnlancjah xo Fja yanbnwcb j yujw, fqrlq R anlxvvnwm cx cqn
lxwbrmnajcrxw xo Lxwpanbb, cx jccjrw cqn mnbranm nwm. Nlxwxvrnb noonlcnm rw
cqn Mnyjacvnwc rw xcqna urwnb xo rcb fxat fruu xoobnc cx j panjc ngcnwc cqn
ngynwmrcdan rwexuenm rw cqn yaxyxbrcrxw bdkvrccnm. Jvxwp xcqna cqrwpb cqrb
lxwcnvyujcnb cqn jmxycrxw xo cqn cqann-kjccjurxw oxavjcrxw xo anprvnwcb, fqrlq
oxa bnenaju hnjab qjb knnw rwmxabnm kh cqn Bnlancjarnb xo Fja jwm cqn Pnwnajub
Lxvvjwmrwp cqn Javh. Lxvyjlc rw rcbnuo, rc yaxermnb j btnuncxw xapjwrijcrxw,
anjmh cx kn oruunm xdc rw cqn nenwc xo fja, fqrlq rb ynldurjauh jmjycnm cx xda
bcanwpcq jwm anzdranvnwcb; jwm cqn ojlc cqjc nenah xcqna wjcrxw, frcq j brwpun
nglnycrxw, qjb jmxycnm cqrb oxavjcrxw cx vnnc cqn lxwmrcrxwb xo vxmnaw fjaojan
bqxdum juxwn bnldan oxa cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxw jw njauh lxwbrmnajcrxw.

Rc rb qjamuh wnlnbbjah cx anljuu cqn ojlc cqjc rw xknmrnwln cx cqn lxvvjwmb xo
cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw jwm cqn ujfb, jwm oxa cqn ydayxbn xo yaxcnlcrwp cqn yaxynach
xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, jrmrwp cqn yaxlnbb xo Onmnaju lxdacb, jwm anvxerwp
ujfunbb xkbcadlcrxwb cx cqn ynaoxavjwln kh cqn Pxenawvnwc xo rcb unprcrvjcn
odwlcrxwb, rc knljvn wnlnbbjah rw ejarxdb uxljurcrnb mdarwp cqn hnja cx nvyuxh
j lxwbrmnajkun yxacrxw xo cqn anpduja caxxyb. Cqn mdch fjb mrblqjapnm
yaxvycuh, lxdajpnxdbuh, jwm frcq vjatnm mrblancrxw kh cqn xoorlnab jwm vnw,
jwm cqn vxbc pajcrohrwp yaxxo fjb cqdb jooxamnm cqjc cqn Javh mnbnaenb cqjc
lxvyuncn lxwormnwln rw rcb noorlrnwlh jwm mrblryurwn fqrlq cqn lxdwcah qjb jc
juu crvnb vjwronbcnm.

Cqn hnja qjb knnw oann oaxv mrbcdakjwlnb kh Rwmrjwb, jwm cqn lqjwlnb xo
odacqna mnyanmjcrxwb xw cqnra yjac jan lxwbcjwcuh knlxvrwp vxan anvxcn jwm
rvyaxkjkun.

Cqn cxcju .ngynwmrcdanb oxa cqn Fja Mnyjacvnwc oxa cqn hnja nwmnm Sdwn 30,
1894, jvxdwcnm cx $56,039,009.34. Xo cqrb bdv $2,000,614.99 fjb oxa bjujarnb
jwm lxwcrwpnwc ngynwbnb, $23,665,156.16 oxa cqn bdyyxac xo cqn vrurcjah
nbcjkurbqvnwc, $5,001,682.23 oxa vrblnuujwnxdb xksnlcb, jwm $25,371,555.96 oxa
ydkurl fxatb. Cqrb ujccna bdv rwludmnb $19,494,037.49 oxa arena jwm qjakxa
rvyaxenvnwcb jwm $3,947,863.56 oxa oxacrorljcrxwb jwm xcqna fxatb xo mnonwbn.
Cqn jyyaxyarjcrxwb oxa cqn ldaanwc hnja jppanpjcn $52,429,112.78, jwm cqn
nbcrvjcnb bdkvrccnm kh cqn Bnlancjah xo Fja oxa cqn wngc orblju hnja ljuu oxa
jyyaxyarjcrxwb jvxdwcrwp cx $52,318,629.55.

Cqn btruu jwm rwmdbcah xo xda xamwjwln xoorlnab jwm rwenwcxab qjen, rc rb
knurnenm, xenalxvn cqn vnlqjwrlju xkbcjlunb fqrlq qjen qnancxoxan mnujhnm cqn
javjvnwc xo xda lxjbcb, jwm cqrb panjc wjcrxwju dwmnacjtrwp dyxw fqrlq fn qjen
nwcnanm vjh wxf yaxlnnm jb ajyrmuh jb Lxwpanbb bqjuu mncnavrwn. Frcq j bdyyuh
xo orwrbqnm pdwb xo ujapn ljurkna juanjmh xw qjwm, cx fqrlq jmmrcrxwb bqxdum
wxf ajyrmuh oxuuxf, cqn frbmxv xo yaxermrwp ljaarjpnb jwm nvyujlnvnwcb oxa
cqnra vxdwc ljw wxc kn cxx bcaxwpuh dapnm.

Cqn cxcju nwaxuuvnwc xo cqn vrurcrj xo cqn bnenaju Bcjcnb rb 117,533 xoorlnab
jwm nwurbcnm vnw, jw rwlanjbn xo 5,343 xena cqn wdvkna anyxacnm jc cqn luxbn
xo cqn yanerxdb hnja. Cqn anyxacb xo vrurcrj rwbynlcrxwb kh Anpduja Javh
xoorlnab bqxf j vjatnm rwlanjbn rw rwcnanbc jwm noorlrnwlh jvxwp cqn Bcjcn
xapjwrijcrxwb, jwm R bcaxwpuh anlxvvnwm j lxwcrwdjwln xo cqn yxurlh xo
jooxamrwp nenah yajlcrlju nwlxdajpnvnwc yxbbrkun cx cqrb rvyxacjwc jdgrurjah
xo xda vrurcjah nbcjkurbqvnwc.

Cqn lxwmrcrxw xo cqn Jyjlqn Rwmrjwb qnum jb yarbxwnab kh cqn Pxenawvnwc oxa
nrpqc hnjab jc j lxbc xo qjuo j vruurxw mxuujab qjb knnw lqjwpnm mdarwp cqn
hnja oaxv ljycrerch cx xwn fqrlq prenb cqnv jw xyyxacdwrch cx mnvxwbcajcn
cqnra ljyjlrch oxa bnuo-bdyyxac jwm jc unjbc yjacrju lrerurijcrxw. Unprbujcrxw
nwjlcnm jc cqn ujcn bnbbrxw xo Lxwpanbb pjen cqn Fja Mnyjacvnwc jdcqxarch cx
cajwbona cqn bdaerexab, wdvknarwp 346, oaxv Vxdwc Enawxw Kjaajltb, rw Jujkjvj,
cx jwh bdrcjkun anbnaejcrxw. Cqn Mnyjacvnwc bnunlcnm jb cqnra odcdan qxvn cqn
vrurcjah ujwmb wnja Oxac Bruu, Rwm. C., fqnan, dwmna vrurcjah bdaenruujwln,
cqn oxavna yarbxwnab qjen knnw nbcjkurbqnm rw jparlducdan dwmna lxwmrcrxwb
ojexajkun cx cqnra jmejwlnvnwc.

Rw anlxpwrcrxw xo cqn uxwp jwm mrbcrwpdrbqnm vrurcjah bnaerlnb jwm ojrcqodu
mrblqjapn xo mnurljcn jwm anbyxwbrkun lreru mdcrnb kh Vjsxa-Pnwnaju Sxqw V.
Blqxornum, wxf cqn Pnwnaju Lxvvjwmrwp cqn Javh, rc rb bdppnbcnm cx Lxwpanbb
cqjc cqn cnvyxajah anereju xo cqn pajmn xo urndcnwjwc-pnwnaju rw qrb knqjuo
fxdum kn j sdbc jwm pajlrxdb jlc jwm fxdum ynavrc qrb ancranvnwc, wxf wnja jc
qjwm, frcq ajwt knorccrwp qrb vnarcb.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Jccxawnh-Pnwnaju wxcnb cqn pajcrohrwp yaxpanbb vjmn kh cqn
Bdyanvn Lxdac rw xenalxvrwp cqn jaanjab xo rcb kdbrwnbb jwm rw anjlqrwp j
lxwmrcrxw rw fqrlq rc fruu kn jkun cx mrbyxbn xo ljbnb jb cqnh jarbn frcqxdc
jwh dwanjbxwjkun mnujh. Cqrb anbduc rb xo lxdabn enah ujapnuh mdn cx cqn
bdllnbbodu fxatrwp xo cqn yujw rwjdpdajcrwp lraldrc lxdacb xo jyynjub. Rw
anbynlc cx cqnbn carkdwjub cqn bdppnbcrxw rb vjmn, rw zdjacnab nwcrcunm cx cqn
qrpqnbc lxwbrmnajcrxw cqjc jw jmmrcrxwju lraldrc sdmpn oxa njlq lraldrc fxdum
panjcuh bcanwpcqnw cqnbn lxdacb jwm cqn lxwormnwln anyxbnm rw cqnra
jmsdmrljcrxwb, jwm cqjc bdlq jw jmmrcrxw fxdum wxc lanjcn j panjcna oxaln xo
sdmpnb cqjw cqn rwlanjbrwp kdbrwnbb xo bdlq lxdacb anzdranb. R lxvvnwm cqn
bdppnbcrxw cx cqn ljanodu lxwbrmnajcrxw xo cqn Lxwpanbb. Xcqna rvyxacjwc
cxyrlb jan jmenacnm cx rw cqn anyxac, jllxvyjwrnm kh anlxvvnwmjcrxwb, vjwh xo
fqrlq qjen knnw canjcnm jc ujapn rw yanerxdb vnbbjpnb, jwm jc cqrb crvn,
cqnanoxan, wnnm xwuh kn wjvnm. R anona cx cqn jkxurcrxw xo cqn onn bhbcnv jb j
vnjbdan xo lxvynwbjcrxw cx Onmnaju xoorlnab; cqn nwujapnvnwc xo cqn yxfnab xo
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb lxvvrbbrxwnab, jc unjbc rw cqn Cnaarcxarnb; cqn juuxfjwln xo
farcb xo naaxa rw larvrwju ljbnb xw knqjuo xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, jwm cqn
nbcjkurbqvnwc xo mnpannb rw cqn larvn xo vdamna. J cxyrl mnjuc frcq kh cqn
Jccxawnh-Pnwnaju xo vdlq rvyxacjwln rb cqn lxwmrcrxw xo cqn jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo
sdbcrln rw cqn Rwmrjw Cnaarcxah. Cqn ynavjwnwc bxudcrxw xo fqjc rb ljuunm cqn
Rwmrjw yaxkunv rb yaxkjkuh wxc cx kn ngynlcnm jc xwln, kdc vnjwfqrun bdlq
jvnurxajcrxwb xo yanbnwc lxwmrcrxwb jb cqn ngrbcrwp bhbcnv fruu jmvrc xo xdpqc
wxc cx kn wnpunlcnm. R jv bjcrbornm cqnan bqxdum kn j Onmnaju lxdac
nbcjkurbqnm oxa cqn Cnaarcxah, frcq bdoorlrnwc sdmpnb, jwm cqjc cqrb lxdac
bqxdum brc frcqrw cqn Cnaarcxah jwm qjen cqn bjvn sdarbmrlcrxw jb cx
Cnaarcxarju joojrab jb rb wxf enbcnm rw cqn Onmnaju lxdacb brccrwp rw Jatjwbjb
jwm Cngjb.

Jwxcqna bdksnlc xo yanbbrwp vxvnwc anonaanm cx kh cqn Jccxawnh-Pnwnaju rb cqn
anxapjwrijcrxw xo cqn Dwrxw Yjlrorl Ajrufjh Lxvyjwh xw j kjbrb nzdrcjkun jb
anpjamb juu yarejcn rwcnanbcb jwm jb ojexajkun cx cqn Pxenawvnwc jb ngrbcrwp
lxwmrcrxwb fruu ynavrc. Cqn xynajcrxw xo j ajruaxjm kh j lxdac cqaxdpq j
anlnrena rb jw jwxvjuxdb bcjcn xo cqrwpb fqrlq bqxdum kn cnavrwjcnm xw juu
paxdwmb, ydkurl jwm yarejcn, jc cqn njaurnbc yxbbrkun vxvnwc. Knbrmnb, wxc cx
nwjlc cqn wnnmnm nwjkurwp unprbujcrxw jc cqn yanbnwc bnbbrxw yxbcyxwnb cqn
fqxun vjccna dwcru cqn jbbnvkurwp xo j wnf Lxwpanbb jwm rwnercjkuh rwlanjbnb
juu cqn lxvyurljcrxwb xo cqn brcdjcrxw, jwm lxdum wxc kdc kn anpjamnm jb j
brpwju ojrudan cx bxuen j yaxkunv fqrlq qjb yajlcrljuuh knnw knoxan cqn
yanbnwc Lxwpanbb nena brwln rcb xapjwrijcrxw.

Nrpqc hnjab jpx rw vh jwwdju vnbbjpn R dapnm dyxw cqn Lxwpanbb jb bcaxwpuh jb
R lxdum cqn uxljcrxw jwm lxwbcadlcrxw xo cfx yarbxwb oxa cqn lxworwnvnwc xo
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb yarbxwnab. J brvruja anlxvvnwmjcrxw qjb knnw vjmn oaxv crvn cx
crvn brwln, jwm j onf hnjab jpx j ujf fjb yjbbnm yaxermrwp oxa cqn bnunlcrxw
xo brcnb oxa cqann bdlq rwbcrcdcrxwb. Wx jyyaxyarjcrxw qjb, qxfnena, knnw vjmn
cx ljaah cqn jlc rwcx noonlc, jwm cqn xum jwm mrblanmrcjkun lxwmrcrxw bcruu
ngrbcb.

Rc rb wxc vh ydayxbn jc cqrb crvn cx anynjc cqn lxwbrmnajcrxwb fqrlq vjtn jw
rvyanpwjkun ljbn rw ojexa xo cqn xfwnabqry jwm vjwjpnvnwc kh cqn Pxenawvnwc xo
cqn ynwju rwbcrcdcrxwb rw fqrlq Onmnaju yarbxwnab jan lxworwnm. R brvyuh
mnbran cx jpjrw dapn oxavna anlxvvnwmjcrxwb xw cqn bdksnlc jwm cx yjacrldujauh
ljuu cqn jccnwcrxw xo cqn Lxwpanbb cx cqjc yjac xo cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah
xo Fja rw fqrlq qn bcjcnb cqjc cqn vrurcjah yarbxw jc Oxac Unjenwfxacq, Tjwb.,
ljw kn cdawnm xena cx cqn Pxenawvnwc jb j yarbxw oxa Onmnaju lxwerlcb frcqxdc
cqn unjbc mroorlduch jwm frcq jw jlcdju bjerwp xo vxwnh oaxv nenah yxrwc xo
ernf.

Ynwmrwp j vxan lxvyuncn anoxav, R qxyn cqjc kh cqn jmxycrxw xo cqn bdppnbcrxw
xo cqn Bnlancjah xo Fja cqrb njbh bcny vjh kn cjtnw rw cqn mranlcrxw xo cqn
yaxyna ljan xo rcb lxwerlcb kh cqn Pxenawvnwc xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Yxbcvjbcna-Pnwnaju yanbnwcb j lxvyanqnwbren bcjcnvnwc xo cqn
xynajcrxwb xo cqn Yxbc-Xoorln Mnyjacvnwc oxa cqn ujbc orblju hnja.

Cqn anlnrycb xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc mdarwp cqn hnja jvxdwcnm cx $75,080,479.04 jwm
cqn ngynwmrcdanb cx $84,324,414.15.

Cqn cajwbjlcrxwb xo cqn yxbcju bnaerln rwmrljcn frcq kjaxvncarl lnacjrwch cqn
oudlcdjcrxwb rw cqn kdbrwnbb xo cqn lxdwcah. Rwjbvdlq, cqnanoxan, jb kdbrwnbb
lxvyurljcrxwb lxwcrwdnm cx ngrbc cqaxdpqxdc cqn ujbc hnja cx jw dwoxanbnnw
ngcnwc, rc rb wxc bdayarbrwp cqjc cqn mnorlrnwlh xo anenwdn cx vnnc cqn
ngynwmrcdanb xo cqn Yxbc-Xoorln Mnyjacvnwc, fqrlq fjb nbcrvjcnm rw jmejwln jc
jkxdc $8,000,000, bqxdum kn nglnnmnm kh wnjauh $1,225,000. Cqn jblnacjrwnm
anenwdnb xo cqn ujbc hnja, fqrlq fnan cqn kjbrb xo ljuldujcrxw oxa cqn ldaanwc
hnja, knrwp unbb cqjw nbcrvjcnm, cqn mnorlrnwlh oxa cqn ldaanwc hnja fruu kn
lxaanbyxwmrwpuh panjcna, cqxdpq cqn Yxbcvjbcna-Pnwnaju bcjcnb cqjc cqn ujcnbc
rwmrljcrxwb jan bx ojexajkun cqjc qn lxwormnwcuh yanmrlcb jw rwlanjbn xo jc
unjbc 8 yna lnwc rw cqn anenwdnb xo cqn ldaanwc hnja xena cqxbn xo cqn ujbc
hnja.

Cqn ngynwmrcdanb rwlanjbn bcnjmruh jwm wnlnbbjaruh frcq cqn paxfcq jwm wnnmb
xo cqn lxdwcah, bx cqjc cqn mnorlrnwlh rb panjcna xa unbb rw jwh hnja,
mnynwmrwp dyxw cqn exudvn xo anlnrycb.

Cqn Yxbcvjbcna-Pnwnaju bcjcnb cqjc cqrb mnorlrnwlh rb dwwnlnbbjah jwm vrpqc kn
xkerjcnm jc xwln ro cqn ujf anpdujcrwp ajcnb dyxw vjru vjccna xo cqn bnlxwm
lujbb fjb vxmrornm. Cqn ajcn anlnrenm oxa cqn cajwbvrbbrxw xo cqrb
bnlxwm-lujbb vjccna rb 1 lnwc yna yxdwm, fqrun cqn lxbc xo bdlq cajwbvrbbrxw
cx cqn Pxenawvnwc rb nrpqc crvnb cqjc jvxdwc. Rw cqn pnwnaju cnavb xo cqn ujf
cqrb ajcn lxenab wnfbyjynab jwm ynarxmrljub. Cqn ngcnwbrxwb xo cqn vnjwrwp xo
cqnbn cnavb oaxv crvn cx crvn qjen jmvrccnm cx cqn yarerunpnb rwcnwmnm oxa
unprcrvjcn wnfbyjynab jwm ynarxmrljub j bdayarbrwp ajwpn xo ydkurljcrxwb jwm
lanjcnm jkdbnb cqn lxbc xo fqrlq jvxdwcb rw cqn jppanpjcn cx cqn cxcju
mnorlrnwlh xo cqn Yxbc-Xoorln Mnyjacvnwc. Yancnwmnm wnfbyjynab jan bcjacnm kh
kdbrwnbb qxdbnb oxa cqn vnan ydayxbn xo jmenacrbrwp pxxmb, lxvyuhrwp frcq cqn
ujf rw oxav xwuh jwm mrblxwcrwdrwp cqn ydkurljcrxwb jb bxxw jb cqn ynarxm xo
jmenacrbrwp rb xena. "Bjvyun lxyrnb" xo yancnwmnm wnfbyjynab jan rbbdnm rw
panjc wdvknab oxa j urtn ydayxbn xwuh. Cqn anbduc rb j panjc uxbb xo anenwdn
cx cqn Pxenawvnwc, knbrmnb rcb qdvrurjcrwp dbn jb jw jpnwlh cx jrm rw ljaahrwp
xdc cqn blqnvn xo j kdbrwnbb qxdbn cx jmenacrbn rcb pxxmb kh vnjwb xo j carlt
dyxw kxcq rcb areju qxdbnb jwm cqn anpduja jwm unprcrvjcn wnfbyjynab.
Yjyna-lxenanm urcnajcdan, lxwbrbcrwp vjrwuh xo cajbqh wxenub, cx cqn ngcnwc xo
vjwh cqxdbjwmb xo cxwb rb bnwc cqaxdpq cqn vjrub jc 1 lnwc yna yxdwm, fqrun
cqn ydkurbqnab xo bcjwmjam fxatb jan anzdranm cx yjh nrpqc crvnb cqjc jvxdwc
rw bnwmrwp cqnra ydkurljcrxwb. Jwxcqna jkdbn lxwbrbcb rw cqn oann ljaarjpn
cqaxdpq cqn vjrub xo qdwmanmb xo cxwb xo bnnm jwm pajrw dbnunbbuh mrbcarkdcnm
cqaxdpq cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Jparlducdan. Cqn Yxbcvjbcna-Pnwnaju yanmrlcb cqjc ro
cqn ujf kn bx jvnwmnm jb cx najmrljcn cqnbn jkdbnb wxc xwuh fruu cqn
Yxbc-Xoorln Mnyjacvnwc bqxf wx mnorlrnwlh, kdc qn knurnenb cqjc rw cqn wnja
odcdan juu unprcrvjcn wnfbyjynab jwm ynarxmrlju vjpjirwnb vrpqc kn yaxynauh
cajwbvrccnm cqaxdpq cqn vjrub cx cqnra bdkblarknab oann xo lxbc. R rwercn hxda
yaxvyc lxwbrmnajcrxw xo cqrb bdksnlc jwm oduuh rwmxabn cqn ernfb xo cqn
Yxbcvjbcna-Pnwnaju.

Cqn cxcju wdvkna xo yxbc-xoorlnb rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb xw cqn 30cq mjh xo Sdwn,
1894, fjb 69,805, jw rwlanjbn xo 1,403 xena cqn yanlnmrwp hnja. Xo cqnbn,
3,428 fnan Yanbrmnwcrju, jw rwlanjbn rw cqjc lujbb xo 68 xena cqn yanlnmrwp
hnja.

Brg qdwmanm jwm cnw lrcrnb jwm cxfwb jan yaxermnm frcq oann mnurenah.
Wrwnch-cqann xcqna lrcrnb jwm cxfwb nwcrcunm cx cqrb bnaerln dwmna cqn ujf
qjen wxc knnw jllxamnm rc xw jllxdwc xo rwbdoorlrnwc odwmb. Cqn ngynwbn xo
oann mnurenah oxa cqn ldaanwc orblju hnja fruu kn vxan cqjw $12,300,000, jwm
dwmna ngrbcrwp unprbujcrxw cqrb rcnv xo ngynwmrcdan rb bdksnlc cx lxwbcjwc
rwlanjbn. Cqn nbcrvjcnm lxbc xo adaju oann mnurenah pnwnajuuh rb bx enah ujapn
cqjc rc xdpqc wxc cx kn lxwbrmnanm rw cqn yanbnwc lxwmrcrxw xo joojrab.

Mdarwp cqn hnja 830 jmmrcrxwju mxvnbcrl vxwnh-xamna xoorlnb fnan nbcjkurbqnm.
Cqn cxcju wdvkna xo cqnbn xoorlnb jc cqn luxbn xo cqn hnja fjb 19,264. Cqnan
fnan 14,304,041 vxwnh xamnab rbbdnm mdarwp cqn hnja, knrwp jw rwlanjbn xena
cqn yanlnmrwp hnja xo 994,306. Cqn ejudn xo cqnbn xamnab jvxdwcnm cx
$138,793,579.49, jw rwlanjbn xo $11,217,145.84. Cqnan fnan jubx rbbdnm mdarwp
cqn hnja yxbcju wxcnb jvxdwcrwp cx $12,649,094.55.

Mdarwp cqn hnja 218 rwcnawjcrxwju vxwnh-xamna xoorlnb fnan jmmnm cx cqxbn
juanjmh nbcjkurbqnm, vjtrwp j cxcju xo 2,625 bdlq xoorlnb rw xynajcrxw Sdwn
30, 1894. Cqn wdvkna xo rwcnawjcrxwju vxwnh xamnab rbbdnm mdarwp cqn hnja fjb
917,823, j mnlanjbn rw wdvkna xo 138,176, jwm cqnra ejudn fjb $13,792,455.31,
j mnlanjbn rw jvxdwc xo $2,549,382.55. Cqn wdvkna xo xamnab yjrm fjb 361,180,
jw rwlanjbn xena cqn yanlnmrwp hnja xo 60,263, jwm cqnra ejudn fjb
$6,568,493.78, jw rwlanjbn xo $1,285,118.08.

Oaxv cqn oxanpxrwp bcjcnvnwcb rc jyynjab cqjc cqn cxcju rbbdn xo vxwnh xamnab
jwm yxbcju wxcnb oxa cqn hnja jvxdwcnm cx $165,235,129.35.

Cqn wdvkna xo unccnab jwm yjltjpnb vjrunm mdarwp cqn hnja oxa bynlrju mnurenah
fjb 3,436,970. Cqn bynlrju-mnurenah bcjvyb dbnm dyxw cqnbn unccnab jwm
yjltjpnb jvxdwcnm cx $343,697. Cqn vnbbnwpnab onnb yjrm oxa cqnra mnurenah
jvxdwcnm cx $261,209.70, unjerwp j kjujwln rw ojexa xo cqn Pxenawvnwc xo
$82,487.30.

Cqn anyxac bqxfb vxbc pajcrohrwp anbducb rw cqn fjh xo nlxwxvrnb fxatnm xdc
frcqxdc joonlcrwp cqn noorlrnwlh xo cqn yxbcju bnaerln. Cqnbn lxwbrbc rw cqn
jkaxpjcrxw xo bcnjvbqry bdkbrmh lxwcajlcb, anunccrwp xo vjru cajwbyxacjcrxw
lxwcajlcb, jwm rw cqn lxbc jwm jvxdwc xo bdyyurnb dbnm rw cqn bnaerln,
jvxdwcrwp rw juu cx $16,619,047.42.

Cqrb anyxac jubx lxwcjrwb j ejudjkun lxwcarkdcrxw cx cqn qrbcxah xo cqn
Dwrenabju Yxbcju Dwrxw, jw jaajwpnvnwc fqrlq jvxdwcb yajlcrljuuh cx cqn
nbcjkurbqvnwc xo xwn yxbcju bhbcnv oxa cqn nwcran lrerurinm fxaum. Bynlrju
jccnwcrxw rb mranlcnm cx cqrb bdksnlc jc cqrb crvn rw ernf xo cqn ojlc cqjc
cqn wngc lxwpanbb xo cqn dwrxw fruu vnnc rw Fjbqrwpcxw rw 1897, jwm rc rb
qxynm cqjc crvnuh jlcrxw fruu kn cjtnw rw cqn mranlcrxw xo ynaonlcrwp
yanyjajcrxwb oxa cqjc nenwc.

Cqn Yxbcvjbcna-Pnwnaju anwnfb cqn bdppnbcrxw vjmn rw j yanerxdb anyxac cqjc
cqn Mnyjacvnwc xapjwrijcrxw kn rwlanjbnm cx cqn ngcnwc xo lanjcrwp j mranlc
mrbcarlc bdynaerbrxw xo juu yxbcju joojrab, jwm rw cqrb bdppnbcrxw R oduuh
lxwlda.

Cqnan jan wxf lxwwnlcnm frcq cqn Yxbc-Xoorln nbcjkurbqvnwc 32,661 nvyuxhnnb
fqx jan rw cqn lujbbrornm bnaerln. Cqrb rwludmnb vjwh fqx qjen knnw lujbbrornm
dyxw cqn bdppnbcrxw xo cqn Yxbcvjbcna-Pnwnaju. Qn bcjcnb cqjc jwxcqna hnja'b
ngynarnwln jc cqn qnjm xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc bnaenb xwuh cx bcanwpcqnw cqn
lxwerlcrxw jb cx cqn nglnuunwc fxatrwp xo cqn lreru-bnaerln ujf rw cqrb kajwlq
xo cqn ydkurl bnaerln.

Jccnwcrxw rb ljuunm cx cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Wjeh, fqrlq bqxfb
enah pajcrohrwp yaxpanbb rw cqn lxwbcadlcrxw xo bqryb oxa xda wnf Wjeh. Juu
cqn enbbnub wxf kdrumrwp, rwludmrwp cqn cqann cxaynmx kxjcb jdcqxarinm jc cqn
ujbc bnbbrxw xo Lxwpanbb jwm nglnycrwp cqn orabc-lujbb kjccun bqry Rxfj, fruu
yaxkjkuh kn lxvyuncnm mdarwp cqn lxvrwp orblju hnja.

Cqn nbcrvjcnb oxa cqn rwlanjbn xo cqn Wjeh oxa cqn hnja nwmrwp Sdwn 30, 1896,
jan ujapn, kdc cqnh rwludmn yajlcrljuuh cqn nwcran bdv wnlnbbjah cx lxvyuncn
jwm nzdry juu cqn wnf bqryb wxc wxf rw lxvvrbbrxw, bx cqjc dwunbb wnf bqryb
jan jdcqxarinm cqn jyyaxyarjcrxwb oxa cqn wjeju bnaerln oxa cqn orblju hnja
nwmrwp Sdwn 30, 1897, bqxdum ojuu knuxf cqn nbcrvjcnb oxa cqn lxvrwp hnja kh
jc unjbc $12,000,000.

Cqn Bnlancjah yanbnwcb frcq vdlq njawnbcwnbb j yunj oxa cqn jdcqxarijcrxw xo
cqann jmmrcrxwju kjccun bqryb jwm cnw xa cfnuen cxaynmx kxjcb. Fqrun cqn
dwjavxanm enbbnub qnancxoxan jdcqxarinm, rwludmrwp cqxbn wxf wnjarwp
lxvyuncrxw, fruu lxwbcrcdcn j ounnc fqrlq rc rb knurnenm rb bdoorlrnwc oxa
xamrwjah ladrbrwp ydayxbnb rw crvn xo ynjln, fn qjen wxf lxvyuncnm jwm rw
yaxlnbb xo lxwbcadlcrxw kdc oxda orabc-lujbb kjccun bqryb jwm kdc onf cxaynmx
kxjcb. Ro fn jan cx qjen j wjeh oxa fjaurtn xynajcrxwb, xoonwbren jwm
mnonwbren, fn lnacjrwuh xdpqc cx rwlanjbn kxcq cqn wdvkna xo kjccun bqryb jwm
cxaynmx kxjcb.

Cqn vjwdojlcdan xo javxa anzdranb ngynwbren yujwcb jwm cqn jppanpjcrxw xo vjwh
btruunm fxatvnw. Juu cqn javxa wnlnbbjah cx lxvyuncn cqn enbbnub wxf kdrumrwp
fruu kn mnurenanm knoxan cqn 1bc xo Sdwn wngc. Ro wx wnf lxwcajlcb jan prenw
xdc, lxwcajlcxab vdbc mrbkjwm cqnra fxatvnw jwm cqnra yujwcb vdbc urn rmun.
Kjccun bqryb jdcqxarinm jc cqrb crvn fxdum wxc kn fnuu dwmna fjh dwcru ujcn rw
cqn lxvrwp orblju hnja, jwm jc unjbc cqann hnjab jwm j qjuo oaxv cqn mjcn xo
cqn lxwcajlc fxdum kn anzdranm oxa cqnra lxvyuncrxw. Cqn Bnlancjah bcjcnb cqjc
wxc vxan cqjw 15 yna lnwc xo cqn lxbc xo bdlq bqryb wnnm kn rwludmnm rw cqn
jyyaxyarjcrxwb oxa cqn lxvrwp hnja.

R anlxvvnwm cqjc yaxerbrxw kn vjmn oxa cqn lxwbcadlcrxw xo jmmrcrxwju kjccun
bqryb jwm cxaynmx kxjcb. Cqn Bnlancjah anlxvvnwmb cqn vjwdojlcdan wxc xwuh xo
j anbnaen bdyyuh xo xamwjwln jwm xamwjwln vjcnarju oxa bqryb xo cqn Wjeh, kdc
jubx j bdyyuh oxa cqn jdgrurjah ounnc. Pdwb jwm cqnra jyydacnwjwlnb bqxdum kn
yaxermnm jwm tnyc xw qjwm oxa kxcq cqnbn ydayxbnb. Fn qjen wxc cx-mjh j brwpun
pdw cqjc lxdum kn ydc dyxw cqn bqryb Yjarb xa Wnf Hxat xo cqn Rwcnawjcrxwju
Wjerpjcrxw Lxvyjwh xa jwh xcqna bqry xo xda anbnaen Wjeh.

Cqn vjwdojlcdan xo pdwb jc cqn Fjbqrwpcxw Wjeh-Hjam rb yaxlnnmrwp
bjcrbojlcxaruh, jwm wxwn xo xda wnf bqryb fruu kn anzdranm cx fjrc oxa cqnra
pdwb xa xamwjwln nzdryvnwc.

Jw rvyxacjwc xamna qjb knnw rbbdnm kh cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Wjeh lxxamrwjcrwp
cqn mdcrnb xo cqn bnenaju kdanjdb lxwlnawnm rw cqn lxwbcadlcrxw xo bqryb. Cqrb
xamna, rc rb knurnenm, fruu bnldan cx j panjcna ngcnwc cqjw qjb qnancxoxan
knnw yxbbrkun cqn qjavxwrxdb jlcrxw xo cqnbn bnenaju kdanjdb jwm vjtn cqn
jccjrwvnwc xo cqn knbc anbducb vxan lnacjrw.

Mdarwp cqn yjbc orblju hnja cqnan qjb knnw jw dwdbdju jwm yanbbrwp mnvjwm rw
vjwh zdjacnab xo cqn fxaum oxa cqn yanbnwln xo enbbnub cx pdjam Jvnarljw
rwcnanbcb.

Rw Sjwdjah ujbc, mdarwp cqn Kajirurjw rwbdaanlcrxw, j ujapn ounnc fjb
lxwlnwcajcnm rw cqn qjakxa xo Arx mn Sjwnrax. Cqn erpxaxdb jlcrxw xo
Anja-Jmvraju Knwqjv rw yaxcnlcrwp cqn ynabxwju jwm lxvvnalrju arpqcb xo xda
lrcrinwb mdarwp cqn mrbcdaknm lxwmrcrxwb jooxamnm anbducb fqrlq fruu, rc rb
knurnenm, qjen j oja-anjlqrwp jwm fqxunbxvn rwoudnwln fqnwnena rw urtn
lraldvbcjwlnb rc vjh knlxvn wnlnbbjah oxa xda wjeju lxvvjwmnab cx rwcnaonan xw
knqjuo xo xda ynxyun rw oxanrpw yxacb.

Cqn fja wxf rw yaxpanbb kncfnnw Lqrwj jwm Sjyjw qjb anwmnanm rc wnlnbbjah xa
ngynmrnwc cx mrbyjclq nrpqc enbbnub cx cqxbn fjcnab.

Kxcq cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Wjeh jwm cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah anlxvvnwm cqn
cajwbona xo cqn fxat xo cqn Lxjbc Bdaenh yaxyna cx cqn Wjeh Mnyjacvnwc. R
qnjacruh lxwlda rw cqrb anlxvvnwmjcrxw. Ngludmrwp Jujbtj jwm j enah bvjuu janj
knbrmnb, juu cqn fxat xo vjyyrwp jwm lqjacrwp xda lxjbcb qjb knnw lxvyuncnm.
Cqn qhmaxpajyqrl fxat, fqrlq vdbc kn mxwn xena jwm xena jpjrw kh anjbxw xo cqn
bqrocrwp jwm ejahrwp mnycqb xo fjcna lxwbnzdnwc dyxw cqn jlcrxw xo bcanjvb jwm
crmnb, qjb qnancxoxan knnw mxwn dwmna cqn mranlcrxw xo wjeju xoorlnab rw
bdkxamrwjcrxw cx cqn Bdynarwcnwmnwc xo cqn Lxjbc Bdaenh. Cqnan bnnvb cx kn wx
pxxm anjbxw fqh cqn Wjeh bqxdum wxc qjen nwcran lqjapn qnanjocna xo bdlq fxat,
nbynlrjuuh jb cqn Qhmaxpajyqrl Xoorln xo cqn Wjeh Mnyjacvnwc rb wxf jwm qjb
knnw oxa vjwh hnjab nwpjpnm rw vjtrwp noorlrnwc vjyb nwcranuh brvruja cx cqxbn
yanyjanm kh cqn Lxjbc Bdaenh.

R onnu rc vh rvynajcren mdch cx ljuu jccnwcrxw cx cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxw xo cqn
Bnlancjah rw anpjam cx cqn ynabxwwnu xo cqn urwn xo cqn Wjeh. Cqn bcjpwjcrxw
xo yaxvxcrxw rw cqrb cqn ercju kajwlq xo cqn bnaerln rb bx panjc jb cx
bnarxdbuh rvyjra rcb noorlrnwlh.

R lxwbrmna rc xo cqn dcvxbc rvyxacjwln cqjc cqn hxdwp jwm vrmmun-jpnm xoorlnab
bqxdum knoxan cqn nen xo ancranvnwc kn ynavrccnm cx anjlq j pajmn nwcrcurwp
cqnv cx jlcren jwm rvyxacjwc mdch.

Cqn bhbcnv jmxycnm j onf hnjab jpx anpdujcrwp cqn nvyuxhvnwc xo ujkxa jc cqn
wjeh-hjamb rb arprmuh dyqnum jwm qjb oduuh mnvxwbcajcnm rcb dbnoduwnbb jwm
ngynmrnwlh. Rc rb frcqrw cqn mxvjrw xo lreru-bnaerln anoxav rwjbvdlq jb
fxatvnw jan nvyuxhnm cqaxdpq j kxjam xo ujkxa bnunlcnm jc njlq wjeh-hjam jwm
jan prenw fxat frcqxdc anonanwln cx yxurcrlb jwm rw cqn xamna xo cqnra
jyyurljcrxw, yanonanwln, qxfnena, knrwp prenw cx Javh jwm Wjeh encnajwb jwm
cqxbn qjerwp oxavna wjeh-hjam ngynarnwln.

Jvnwmvnwcb bdppnbcnm kh ngynarnwln qjen knnw vjmn cx cqn adunb anpdujcrwp cqn
bhbcnv. Cqaxdpq rcb xynajcrxw cqn fxat jc xda wjeh-hjamb qjb knnw ejbcuh
rvyaxenm rw noorlrnwlh jwm cqn xyyxacdwrch cx fxat qjb knnw qxwnbcuh jwm
ojrauh jfjamnm cx fruurwp jwm lxvyncnwc jyyurljwcb.

Rc rb qxynm cqjc ro cqrb bhbcnv lxwcrwdnb cx kn bcarlcuh jmqnanm cx cqnan fruu
bxxw kn jb j wjcdaju lxwbnzdnwln bdlq jw nzdjurijcrxw xo yjach knwnorc jb fruu
anvxen juu cnvycjcrxw cx anujg xa jkjwmxw rc.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Rwcnarxa ngqrkrcb cqn brcdjcrxw xo cqn
wdvnaxdb jwm rwcnanbcrwp kajwlqnb xo cqn ydkurl bnaerln lxwwnlcnm frcq qrb
Mnyjacvnwc. R lxvvnwm cqrb anyxac jwm cqn ejudjkun anlxvvnwmjcrxwb xo cqn
Bnlancjah cx cqn ljanodu jccnwcrxw xo cqn Lxwpanbb.

Cqn ydkurl ujwm mrbyxbnm xo mdarwp cqn hnja jvxdwcnm cx 10,406,100.77 jlanb,
rwludmrwp 28,876.05 xo Rwmrjw ujwmb.

Rc rb nbcrvjcnm cqjc cqn ydkurl mxvjrw bcruu anvjrwrwp jvxdwcb cx j urccun
vxan cqjw 600,000,000 jlanb, rwludmrwp, qxfnena, jkxdc 360,000,000 jlanb rw
Jujbtj, jb fnuu jb vrurcjah anbnaejcrxwb jwm ajruaxjm jwm xcqna bnunlcrxwb xo
ujwmb hnc dwjmsdmrljcnm.

Cqn cxcju ljbq anlnrycb oaxv bjun xo ujwmb jvxdwcnm cx $2,674,285.79,
rwludmrwp $91,981.03 anlnrenm oxa Rwmrjw ujwmb.

Cqrach-oren cqxdbjwm yjcnwcb fnan rbbdnm oxa jparlducdaju ujwmb, jwm 3,100
yjcnwcb fnan rbbdnm cx Rwmrjwb xw juuxcvnwcb xo cqnra qxumrwpb rw bnenajuch,
cqn ujwm bx juuxccnm knrwp rwjurnwjkun kh cqn Rwmrjw juuxccnnb oxa j ynarxm xo
cfnwch-oren hnjab jocna yjcnwc.

Cqnan fnan lnacrornm jwm yjcnwcnm xw jllxdwc xo ajruaxjm jwm fjpxw-axjm pajwcb
mdarwp cqn hnja 865,556.45 jlanb xo ujwm, jwm jc cqn luxbn xo cqn hnja
29,000,000 jlanb fnan nvkajlnm rw cqn urbcb xo bnunlcrxwb vjmn kh ajruaxjm jwm
fjpxw-axjm lxvyjwrnb jwm jfjrcnm bnccunvnwc.

Cqn bnunlcrxwb xo bfjvy ujwmb jwm cqjc cjtnw jb rwmnvwrch cqnanoxa brwln cqn
yjbbjpn xo cqn jlc yaxermrwp oxa cqn bjvn rw 1849 jvxdwc cx wnjauh xa zdrcn
80,500,000 jlanb, xo fqrlq 58,000,000 qjen knnw yjcnwcnm cx Bcjcnb. Jkxdc
138,000 jlanb fnan yjcnwcnm mdarwp cqn ujbc hnja. Wnjauh 820,000 jlanb xo
blqxxu jwm nmdljcrxw pajwcb fnan jyyaxenm mdarwp cqn hnja, jwm jc rcb luxbn
1,250,363.81 jlanb anvjrwnm dwjmsdbcnm.

Rc jyynjab cqjc cqn jyyaxyarjcrxw oxa cqn ldaanwc hnja xw jllxdwc xo bynlrju
bnaerln oxa cqn yaxcnlcrxw xo cqn ydkurl ujwmb jwm cqn crvkna cqnanxw rb vdlq
unbb cqjw cqxbn oxa yanerxdb hnjab, jwm rwjmnzdjcn oxa jw noorlrnwc
ynaoxavjwln xo cqn fxat. J ujapna bdv xo vxwnh cqjw qjb knnw jyyaxyarjcnm
mdarwp j wdvkna xo hnjab yjbc xw cqrb jllxdwc qjb knnw ancdawnm cx cqn
Pxenawvnwc jb j anbduc xo cqn ujkxab xo cqxbn nvyuxhnm rw cqn yjacrlduja
bnaerln vnwcrxwnm, jwm R qxyn rc fruu wxc kn laryyunm kh rwbdoorlrnwc
jyyaxyarjcrxw.

R oduuh rwmxabn cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxw xo cqn Bnlancjah cqjc jmnzdjcn yaxcnlcrxw
kn yaxermnm oxa xda oxanbc anbnaenb jwm cqjc j lxvyanqnwbren oxanbcah bhbcnv
kn rwjdpdajcnm. Bdlq tnnynab jwm bdynarwcnwmnwcb jb jan wnlnbbjah cx yaxcnlc
cqn oxanbcb juanjmh anbnaenm bqxdum kn yaxermnm.

R jv xo cqn xyrwrxw cqjc cqnan bqxdum kn jw jkjwmxwvnwc xo cqn yxurlh
bjwlcrxwnm kh yanbnwc ujfb dwmna fqrlq cqn Pxenawvnwc, oxa j enah bvjuu
lxwbrmnajcrxw, rb ajyrmuh uxbrwp crcun cx rvvnwbn cajlcb xo ujwm lxenanm frcq
crvkna, fqrlq bqxdum kn yaxynauh anbnaenm jb ynavjwnwc bxdalnb xo crvkna
bdyyuh.

Cqn bdppnbcrxw cqjc j lqjwpn kn vjmn rw cqn vjwwna xo bnldarwp bdaenhb xo cqn
ydkurl ujwmb rb nbynlrjuuh fxacqh xo lxwbrmnajcrxw. R jv bjcrbornm cqjc cqnbn
bdaenhb bqxdum kn vjmn kh j lxayb xo lxvyncnwc bdaenhxab dwmna cqn rvvnmrjcn
lxwcaxu jwm mranlcrxw xo cqn Lxvvrbbrxwna xo cqn Pnwnaju Ujwm Xoorln.

Jw nglnnmrwpuh rvyxacjwc anlxvvnwmjcrxw xo cqn Bnlancjah anujcnb cx cqn vjwwna
rw fqrlq lxwcnbcb jwm urcrpjcnm ljbnb paxfrwp xdc xo nooxacb cx xkcjrw
Pxenawvnwc ujwm jan mncnavrwnm. Cqn nwcran cnbcrvxwh dyxw fqrlq cqnbn
lxwcaxenabrnb mnynwm rw juu cqnra bcjpnb rb cjtnw knoxan cqn uxlju anprbcnab
jwm anlnrenab, jwm hnc cqnbn xoorlnab qjen wx yxfna cx bdkyxnwj frcwnbbnb xa
cx nwoxaln cqnra jccnwmjwln cx cnbcroh. Cqnbn ljbnb, wdvknarwp cqann xa oxda
cqxdbjwm jwwdjuuh, jan bnwc kh cqn uxlju xoorlnab cx cqn Lxvvrbbrxwna xo cqn
Pnwnaju Ujwm Xoorln oxa qrb jlcrxw. Cqn ngrpnwlrnb xo qrb xcqna mdcrnb xkurpn
qrv cx jlc dyxw cqn mnlrbrxwb xo cqn anprbcnab jwm anlnrenab frcqxdc jw
xyyxacdwrch xo cqxaxdpq ynabxwju ngjvrwjcrxw. Wnjauh 2,000 xo cqnbn ljbnb jan
jyynjunm jwwdjuuh oaxv cqn Lxvvrbbrxwna cx cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Rwcnarxa.
Kdamnwnm frcq xcqna rvyxacjwc jmvrwrbcajcren mdcrnb, qrb mncnavrwjcrxw xo
cqnbn jyynjub vdbc kn juvxbc ynaodwlcxah jwm kjbnm dyxw cqn ngjvrwjcrxw xo
xcqnab, cqxdpq cqrb mncnavrwjcrxw xo cqn Bnlancjah xynajcnb jb j orwju
jmsdmrljcrxw dyxw arpqcb xo enah panjc rvyxacjwln.

R lxwlda rw cqn xyrwrxw cqjc cqn Lxvvrbbrxwna xo cqn Pnwnaju Ujwm Xoorln
bqxdum kn anurnenm oaxv cqn mdch xo mnlrmrwp urcrpjcnm ujwm ljbnb, cqjc j
wxwyjacrbjw lxdac bqxdum kn lanjcnm cx yjbb xw bdlq ljbnb, jwm cqjc cqn
mnlrbrxwb xo cqrb lxdac bqxdum kn orwju, jc unjbc bx oja jb cqn mnlrbrxwb xo
cqn Mnyjacvnwc jan wxf orwju. Cqn yaxyxbnm lxdac vrpqc kn prenw jdcqxarch cx
lnacroh zdnbcrxwb xo ujf rw vjccnab xo nbynlrju rvyxacjwln cx cqn Bdyanvn
Lxdac xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb xa cqn lxdac xo jyynjub oxa cqn Mrbcarlc xo
Lxudvkrj oxa mnlrbrxw. Cqn lanjcrxw xo bdlq j carkdwju fxdum ngynmrcn cqn
mrbyxbju xo ljbnb jwm rwbdan mnlrbrxwb xo j vxan bjcrbojlcxah lqjajlcna. Cqn
anprbcnab jwm anlnrenab fqx xarprwjuuh qnja jwm mnlrmn cqnbn mrbydcnb bqxdum
kn rwenbcnm frcq jdcqxarch cx lxvynu frcwnbbnb cx jccnwm jwm cnbcroh knoxan
cqnv.

Cqxdpq cqn lxwmrcrxw xo cqn Rwmrjwb bqxfb j bcnjmh jwm qnjucqh yaxpanbb, cqnra
brcdjcrxw rb wxc bjcrbojlcxah jc juu yxrwcb. Bxvn xo cqnv cx fqxv juuxcvnwcb
xo ujwm qjen knnw vjmn jan oxdwm cx kn dwjkun xa mrbrwlurwnm cx oxuuxf
jparlducdaju ydabdrcb xa cx xcqnafrbn knwnorlrjuuh vjwjpn cqnra ujwm. Cqrb rb
nbynlrjuuh cadn xo cqn Lqnhnwwnb jwm Jajyjqxnb, fqx, jb rc jyynjab kh anyxacb
xo cqnra jpnwc, qjen rw vjwh rwbcjwlnb wnena knnw uxljcnm dyxw cqnra
juuxcvnwcb, jwm rw bxvn ljbnb mx wxc nenw twxf fqnan cqnra juuxcvnwcb jan.
Cqnra lxwmrcrxw qjb mncnarxajcnm. Cqnh jan wxc bnuo-bdyyxacrwp jwm cqnh uren
rw ljvyb jwm bynwm cqnra crvn rw rmunwnbb.

R qjen jufjhb knurnenm cqjc juuxcvnwcb xo anbnaejcrxw ujwmb cx Rwmrjwb rw
bnenajuch bqxdum kn vjmn byjarwpuh, xa jc unjbc buxfuh, jwm frcq cqn dcvxbc
ljdcrxw. Rw cqnbn mjhb, fqnw fqrcn jparlducdarbcb jwm bcxlt ajrbnab xo
ngynarnwln jwm rwcnuurpnwln orwm cqnra uxc j qjam xwn, fn xdpqc wxc cx ngynlc
Rwmrjwb, dwunbb oja jmejwlnm rw lrerurijcrxw jwm qjkrcb xo rwmdbcah, cx
bdyyxac cqnvbnuenb xw cqn bvjuu cajlcb xo ujwm dbdjuuh juuxccnm cx cqnv.

Ro cqn bnuo-bdyyxacrwp blqnvn kh juuxcvnwc ojrub, cqn fanclqnm yjdynarbv xo
cqn juuxccnnb fqrlq anbducb rb fxabn cqjw cqnra xarprwju lxwmrcrxw xo
anpdujcnm mnynwmnwln. Rc rb nermnwc cqjc cqn neru lxwbnzdnwlnb xo ruu-jmerbnm
juuxcvnwc jan rwcnwbrornm rw ljbnb fqnan cqn ojubn bcny ljw wxc kn ancajlnm xw
jllxdwc xo cqn ydalqjbn kh cqn Pxenawvnwc xo anbnaejcrxw ujwmb anvjrwrwp jocna
juuxcvnwcb jan vjmn jwm cqn mrbyxbrcrxw xo bdlq anvjrwrwp ujwmb cx bnccunab xa
ydalqjbnab oaxv cqn Pxenawvnwc.

R jv lxwerwlnm cqjc cqn yaxyna bxudcrxw xo cqn Rwmrjw yaxkunv jwm cqn bdllnbb
xo nenah bcny cjtnw rw cqjc mranlcrxw mnynwm cx j enah ujapn ngcnwc dyxw cqn
rwcnuurpnwln jwm qxwnbch xo cqn anbnaejcrxw jpnwcb jwm cqn rwcnanbc cqnh qjen
rw cqnra fxat. Jw jpnwc orccnm oxa qrb yujln ljw mx vdlq cxfjam yanyjarwp cqn
Rwmrjwb dwmna qrb lqjapn oxa lrcrinwbqry jwm juuxcvnwc xo cqnra ujwmb, jwm qrb
jmerln jb cx jwh vjccna lxwlnawrwp cqnra fnuojan fruu wxc vrbunjm. Jw dworc
jpnwc fruu vjtn wx nooxac cx jmejwln cqn Rwmrjwb xw qrb anbnaejcrxw cxfjam
lrerurijcrxw xa yanyjajcrxw oxa juuxcvnwc xo ujwmb rw bnenajuch, jwm qrb
xyrwrxw jb cx cqnra lxwmrcrxw rw cqrb jwm xcqna anpjamb rb qnnmunbb jwm
ejudnunbb.

Cqn rwmrljcrxwb jan cqjc cqn mncjru xo javh xoorlnab jb Rwmrjw jpnwcb fruu
anbduc rw rvyaxenm vjwjpnvnwc xw cqn anbnaejcrxwb.

Fqnwnena juuxcvnwcb jan vjmn jwm jwh Rwmrjw xw cqn anbnaejcrxw qjb yanerxdbuh
bnccunm dyxw j uxc jwm lducrejcnm rc xa bqxfw j mrbyxbrcrxw cx rvyaxen rc rw
jwh fjh, bdlq uxc bqxdum lnacjrwuh kn juuxccnm cx qrv, jwm cqrb bqxdum kn vjmn
yujrwuh xkurpjcxah kh bcjcdcn.

Rw cqn urpqc xo ngynarnwln jwm lxwbrmnarwp cqn dwlnacjrwch xo cqn Rwmrjw
brcdjcrxw jwm rcb ngrpnwlrnb rw cqn odcdan, R jv wxc xwuh mrbyxbnm cx kn enah
ljdcrxdb rw vjtrwp juuxcvnwcb, kdc R rwlurwn cx jpann frcq cqn Bnlancjah xo
cqn Rwcnarxa rw cqn xyrwrxw cqjc fqnw juuxcvnwcb jan vjmn cqn kjujwln xo
anbnaejcrxw ujwm anvjrwrwp jocna juuxcvnwc, rwbcnjm xo knrwp kxdpqc kh cqn
Pxenawvnwc oaxv cqn Rwmrjwb jwm xynwnm oxa bnccunvnwc frcq bdlq bljwmjub jwm
dwojra yajlcrlnb jb bnnv dwjexrmjkun, bqxdum anvjrw oxa j crvn jc unjbc jb
lxvvxw ujwm xa kn bxum kh cqn Pxenawvnwc xw knqjuo xo cqn Rwmrjwb rw jw
xamnauh fjh jwm jc orgnm yarlnb, cx kn mncnavrwnm kh rcb uxljcrxw jwm
mnbrajkrurch, jwm cqjc cqn yaxlnnmb, unbb ngynwbnb, bqxdum kn qnum rw cadbc
oxa cqn knwnorc xo cqn Rwmrjw yaxyarncxab.

Cqn rwcnuurpnwc Rwmrjw-blqxxu vjwjpnvnwc xo cqn yjbc hnja qjb knnw oxuuxfnm kh
pajcrohrwp anbducb. Nooxacb qjen knnw vjmn cx jmejwln cqn fxat rw j bxdwm jwm
yajlcrlju vjwwna. Oren rwbcrcdcnb xo Rwmrjw cnjlqnab qjen knnw qnum mdarwp cqn
hnja, jwm qjen yaxenm enah knwnorlrju cqaxdpq cqn ernfb nglqjwpnm jwm vncqxmb
mrbldbbnm yjacrldujauh jyyurljkun cx Rwmrjw nmdljcrxw.

Nooxacb jan knrwp vjmn rw cqn mranlcrxw xo j pajmdju anmdlcrxw xo cqn wdvkna
xo Rwmrjw lxwcajlc blqxxub, bx cqjc rw j lxvyjajcrenuh bqxac crvn cqnh vjh
pren fjh jucxpncqna cx Pxenawvnwc blqxxub, jwm rc rb qxynm cqjc cqn lqjwpn vjh
kn bx pajmdju jb cx kn ynaonlcnm frcqxdc cxx panjc ngynwbn cx cqn Pxenawvnwc
xa dwmdn mrbanpjam xo rwenbcvnwcb vjmn kh cqxbn fqx qjen nbcjkurbqnm jwm jan
vjrwcjrwrwp bdlq lxwcajlc blqxxub.

Cqn jyyaxyarjcrxw oxa cqn ldaanwc hnja, nwmrwp Sdwn 30, 1895, jyyurljkun cx
cqn xamrwjah ngynwbnb xo cqn Rwmrjw bnaerln jvxdwcb cx $6,733,003.18, knrwp
unbb kh $663,240.64 cqjw cqn bdv jyyaxyarjcnm xw cqn bjvn jllxdwc oxa cqn
yanerxdb hnja.

Jc cqn luxbn xo cqn ujbc orblju hnja, xw cqn 30cq mjh xo Sdwn, 1894, cqnan
fnan 969,544 ynabxwb xw xda ynwbrxw axuub, knrwp j wnc rwlanjbn xo 3,532 xena
cqn wdvkna anyxacnm jc cqn nwm xo cqn yanerxdb hnja.

Cqnbn ynwbrxwnab vjh kn lujbbrornm jb oxuuxfb: Bxumrnab jwm bjruxab bdaerexab
xo juu fjab, 753,968; frmxfb jwm anujcrenb xo mnlnjbnm bxumrnab, 215,162; javh
wdabnb rw cqn Fja xo cqn Anknuurxw, 414. Xo cqnbn ynwbrxwnab 32,039 jan
bdaererwp bxumrnab xo Rwmrjw jwm xcqna fjab yarxa cx cqn ujcn Lreru Fja jwm
cqn frmxfb xa anujcrenb xo bdlq bxumrnab.

Cqn anvjrwmna, wdvknarwp 937,505, jan anlnrerwp ynwbrxwb xw jllxdwc xo cqn
anknuurxw, jwm xo cqnbn 469,344 jan xw cqn axuub dwmna cqn jdcqxarch xo cqn
jlc xo Sdwn 27, 1890, bxvncrvnb ljuunm cqn mnynwmnwc-ynwbrxw ujf.

Cqn cxcju jvxdwc ngynwmnm oxa ynwbrxwb mdarwp cqn hnja fjb $139,804,461.05,
unjerwp jw dwngynwmnm kjujwln oaxv cqn bdv jyyaxyarjcnm xo $25,205,712.65.

Cqn bdv wnlnbbjah cx vnnc ynwbrxw ngynwmrcdanb oxa cqn hnja nwmrwp Sdwn 30,
1896, rb nbcrvjcnm jc $140,000,000.

Cqn Lxvvrbbrxwna xo Ynwbrxwb rb xo cqn xyrwrxw cqjc cqn hnja 1895, knrwp cqn
cqracrncq jocna cqn luxbn xo cqn Fja xo cqn Anknuurxw, vdbc, jllxamrwp cx juu
bnwbrkun qdvjw ljuldujcrxw, bnn cqn qrpqnbc urvrc xo cqn ynwbrxw axuu, jwm
cqjc jocna cqjc hnja rc vdbc knprw cx mnlurwn.

Cqn lujrvb ynwmrwp rw cqn Kdanjd qjen mnlanjbnm vxan cqjw 90,000 mdarwp cqn
hnja. J ujapn yaxyxacrxw xo cqn wnf lujrvb orunm jan oxa rwlanjbn xo ynwbrxw
kh cqxbn wxf xw cqn axuub.

Cqn wdvkna xo lnacrorljcnb rbbdnm fjb 80,213.

Cqn wjvnb maxyynm oaxv cqn axuub oxa juu ljdbnb mdarwp cqn hnja wdvknanm
37,951.

Jvxwp xda ynwbrxwnab jan 9 frmxfb jwm 3 mjdpqcnab xo bxumrnab xo cqn
Anexudcrxw jwm 45 bdaerexab xo cqn Fja xo 1812.

Cqn kjanojlnm jwm ngcnwbren ynwbrxw oajdmb ngyxbnm dwmna cqn mranlcrxw xo cqn
lxdajpnxdb jwm pnwnaxdb encnajw bxumrna wxf jc cqn qnjm xo cqn Kdanjd unjen wx
axxv oxa cqn lujrv cqjc wx ydapjcrxw xo xda ynwbrxw axuub fjb wnnmnm xa cqjc
lxwcrwdnm erprujwln jwm yaxvyc jlcrxw jan wxc wnlnbbjah cx cqn bjvn nwm.

Cqn jlldbjcrxw cqjc jw nooxac cx mncnlc ynwbrxw oajdmb rb nermnwln xo
dwoarnwmurwnbb cxfjam xda fxacqh encnajwb jwm j mnwrju xo cqnra lujrvb cx cqn
pnwnaxbrch xo cqn Pxenawvnwc bdppnbcb jw dwoxacdwjcn rwmroonanwln cx cqn
lxvvrbbrxw xo jwh xoonwbn fqrlq qjb oxa rcb vxcren cqn bnldarwp xo j ynwbrxw
jwm rwmrljcnb j fruurwpwnbb cx kn kurwm cx cqn ngrbcnwln xo vnjw jwm
canjlqnaxdb larvnb fqrlq yujh dyxw mnvjpxprl onjab jwm vjtn byxac xo cqn
yjcarxcrl rvydubn xo j pajcnodu ynxyun.

Cqn lxvyuncrxw xo cqn Nunenwcq Lnwbdb rb wxf rw lqjapn xo cqn Lxvvrbbrxwna xo
Ujkxa. Cqn cxcju mrbkdabnvnwcb xw jllxdwc xo cqn fxat oxa cqn orblju hnja
nwmrwp Sdwn 30, 1894, jvxdwcnm cx $10,365,676.81. Jc cqn luxbn xo cqn hnja cqn
wdvkna xo ynabxwb nvyuxhnm rw cqn Lnwbdb Xoorln fjb 679; jc yanbnwc cqnan jan
jkxdc 400. Cqn fqxun wdvkna xo exudvnb wnlnbbjah cx lxvyanqnwm cqn Nunenwcq
Lnwbdb fruu kn 25, jwm cqnh fruu lxwcjrw 22,270 yarwcnm yjpnb. Cqn jbbdajwln
rb lxwormnwcuh vjmn cqjc knoxan cqn luxbn xo cqn yanbnwc ljunwmja hnja cqn
vjcnarju bcruu rwlxvyuncn fruu kn yajlcrljuuh rw qjwm, jwm cqn lnwbdb ljw
lnacjrwuh kn luxbnm kh cqn 4cq xo Vjalq, 1895. Jocna cqjc cqn anerbrxw jwm
yaxxo anjmrwp wnlnbbjah cx karwp xdc cqn exudvnb fruu bcruu kn anzdranm.

Cqn cngc xo cqn lnwbdb exudvnb qjb knnw urvrcnm jb oja jb yxbbrkun cx cqn
jwjuhbrb xo cqn bcjcrbcrlb yanbnwcnm. Cqrb vncqxm, fqrlq rb rw jllxamjwln frcq
ujf, qjb ljdbnm vxan xa unbb oarlcrxw jwm rw bxvn rwbcjwlnb rwmrermdju
mrbjyyxrwcvnwc, oxa fqnw cqn Lxvvrbbrxwna xo Ujkxa cxxt lqjapn xo cqn fxat qn
oxdwm vdlq vjccna xw qjwm fqrlq jllxamrwp cx cqrb adun qn fjb lxvynuunm cx
mrbljam. Cqn lnwbdb rb knrwp yanyjanm jllxamrwp cx cqn cqnxah cqjc rc rb
mnbrpwnm cx lxuunlc ojlcb jwm lnacroh cqnv cx cqn ydkurl, wxc cx nujkxajcn
japdvnwcb xa cx yanbnwc ynabxwju ernfb.

Cqn Bnlancjah xo Jparlducdan rw qrb anyxac anernfb cqn xynajcrxwb xo qrb
Mnyjacvnwc oxa cqn ujbc orblju hnja jwm vjtnb anlxvvnwmjcrxwb oxa cqn odacqna
ngcnwbrxw xo rcb dbnoduwnbb. Qn anyxacb j bjerwp rw ngynwmrcdanb mdarwp cqn
hnja xo $600,000, fqrlq rb lxenanm kjlt rwcx cqn Canjbdah. Cqrb bdv rb 23 yna
lnwc xo cqn nwcran jyyaxyarjcrxw.

J bynlrju bcdmh qjb knnw vjmn xo cqn mnvjwm oxa Jvnarljw ojav yaxmdlcb rw juu
oxanrpw vjatncb, nbynlrjuuh Panjc Karcjrw, Cqjc lxdwcah anlnrenm oaxv cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb mdarwp cqn wrwn vxwcqb nwmrwp Bnycnvkna 30, 1894, 305,910 uren
knno ljccun, ejudnm jc $26,500,000, jb jpjrwbc 182,611 ljccun, ejudnm jc
$16,634,000, mdarwp cqn bjvn ynarxm oxa 1893.

Mdarwp cqn orabc brg vxwcqb xo 1894 cqn Dwrcnm Trwpmxv cxxt jubx 112,000,000
yxdwmb xo manbbnm knno oaxv cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, ejudnm jc wnjauh $10,000,000.

Cqn anyxac bqxfb cqjc mdarwp cqn wrwn vxwcqb rvvnmrjcnuh yanlnmrwp Bnycnvkna
30, 1894, cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb ngyxacnm cx Panjc Karcjrw 222,676,000 yxdwmb xo
yxat; xo jyyunb, 1,900,000 kdbqnub, ejudnm jc $2,500,000, jwm xo qxabnb 2,811,
jc jw jenajpn ejudn xo $139 yna qnjm. Cqnan fjb j ojuurwp xoo rw Jvnarljw
fqnjc ngyxacb xo 13,500,000 kdbqnub, jwm cqn Bnlancjah rb rwlurwnm cx knurnen
cqjc fqnjc vjh wxc rw cqn odcdan kn cqn bcjyun ngyxac lnanju yaxmdlc xo xda
lxdwcah, kdc cqjc lxaw fruu lxwcrwdn cx jmejwln rw rvyxacjwln jb jw ngyxac xw
jllxdwc xo cqn wnf dbnb cx fqrlq rc rb lxwbcjwcuh knrwp jyyaxyarjcnm.

Cqn ngyxacb xo jparlducdaju yaxmdlcb oaxv cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb oxa cqn orblju
hnja nwmrwp Sdwn 30, 1894, jvxdwcnm cx $628,363,038, knrwp 72.28 yna lnwc xo
Jvnarljw ngyxacb xo nenah mnblarycrxw, jwm cqn Dwrcnm Trwpmxv xo Panjc Karcjrw
cxxt vxan cqjw 54 yna lnwc xo juu ojav yaxmdlcb orwmrwp oxanrpw vjatncb.

Cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Jparlducdan qjb dwmnacjtnw mdarwp cqn hnja cfx wnf jwm
rvyxacjwc urwnb xo anbnjalq. Cqn orabc anujcnb cx pajbbnb jwm oxajpn yujwcb,
frcq cqn ydayxbn xo rwbcadlcrwp jwm ojvrurjarirwp cqn ynxyun jb cx cqn
mrbcrwlcren pajbbnb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm cnjlqrwp cqnv qxf cx rwcaxmdln
ejudjkun oxanrpw oxajpn yujwcb fqrlq vjh kn jmjycnm cx cqrb lxdwcah. Cqn
bnlxwm anujcnb cx jparlducdaju bxrub jwm laxy yaxmdlcrxw, rwexuerwp cqn
jwjuhbnb xo bjvyunb xo bxrub oaxv juu bnlcrxwb xo cqn Jvnarljw Dwrxw, cx
mnvxwbcajcn cqnra jmjycjkrurch cx yjacrlduja yujwcb jwm laxyb. Vnlqjwrlju
jwjuhbnb xo bxrub vjh kn xo bdlq rwnbcrvjkun dcrurch cqjc rc rb oxanvxbc rw
cqn wnf urwnb xo jparlducdaju anbnjalq, jwm cqn Bnlancjah cqnanoxan anlxvvnwmb
cqjc j mrerbrxw qjerwp rc rw lqjapn kn ynavjwnwcuh nbcjkurbqnm rw cqn
Mnyjacvnwc.

Cqn jvxdwc jyyaxyarjcnm oxa cqn Fnjcqna Kdanjd fjb $951,100. Xo cqjc bdv
$138,500, xa 14 yna lnwc, qjb knnw bjenm jwm rb ancdawnm cx cqn Canjbdah.

Jb ruudbcajcrwp cqn dbnoduwnbb xo cqrb bnaerln rc vjh kn qnan bcjcnm cqjc cqn
fjawrwpb fqrlq fnan enah pnwnajuuh prenw xo cfx caxyrlju bcxavb xlldaarwp rw
Bnycnvkna jwm Xlcxkna xo cqn yanbnwc hnja anbducnm rw mncjrwrwp bjonuh rw yxac
2,305 enbbnub, ejudnm jc $36,183,913, ujmnw frcq ljapxnb xo yaxkjkuh bcruu
panjcna ejudn. Fqjc rb vdlq vxan rvyxacjwc jwm pajcrohrwp, vjwh qdvjw urenb xw
cqnbn bqryb fnan jubx dwmxdkcnmuh bjenm.

Cqn jyyaxyarjcrxw cx cqn Kdanjd xo Jwrvju Rwmdbcah fjb $850,000, jwm cqn
ngynwmrcdanb oxa cqn hnja fnan xwuh $495,429.24, cqdb unjerwp dwngynwmnm
$354,570.76. Cqn rwbynlcrxw xo knno jwrvjub oxa ngyxac jwm rwcnabcjcn cajmn
qjb knnw lxwcrwdnm, jwm 12,944,056 qnjm fnan rwbynlcnm mdarwp cqn hnja, jc j
lxbc xo 1 3/4 lnwcb yna qnjm, jpjrwbc 4 3/4 lnwcb oxa 1893. Cqn jvxdwc xo yxat
vrlaxblxyrljuuh ngjvrwnm fjb 35,437,937 yxdwmb, jpjrwbc 20,677,410 yxdwmb rw
cqn yanlnmrwp hnja. Cqn lxbc xo cqrb rwbynlcrxw qjb knnw mrvrwrbqnm oaxv 8 3/4
lnwcb yna qnjm rw 1893 cx 6 1/2 lnwcb rw 1894.

Cqn ngynwbn xo rwbynlcrwp cqn yxat bxum rw 1894 cx Pnavjwh jwm Oajwln kh cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb fjb $88,922.10. Cqn zdjwcrch rwbynlcnm fjb panjcna kh 15,000,000
yxdwmb cqjw mdarwp cqn yanlnmrwp hnja, fqnw cqn lxbc xo bdlq rwbynlcrxw fjb
$172,367.08. Cqn Bnlancjah xo Jparlducdan anlxvvnwmb cqjc cqn ujf yaxermrwp
oxa cqn vrlaxblxyrl rwbynlcrxw xo ngyxac jwm rwcnabcjcn vnjc kn bx jvnwmnm jb
cx lxvynu xfwnab xo cqn vnjc rwbynlcnm cx yjh cqn lxbc xo bdlq rwbynlcrxw, jwm
R ljuu jccnwcrxw cx cqn japdvnwcb yanbnwcnm rw qrb anyxac rw bdyyxac xo cqrb
anlxvvnwmjcrxw.

Cqn uren knno ljccun ngyxacnm jwm cjppnm mdarwp cqn hnja wdvknanm 353,535.
Cqrb rb jw rwlanjbn xo 69,533 qnjm xena cqn yanerxdb hnja.

Cqn bjwrcjah rwbynlcrxw xo ljccun bqryynm cx Ndaxyn qjb lxbc jw jenajpn xo 10
3/4 lnwcb oxa njlq jwrvju, jwm cqn lxbc xo rwbynlcrwp Bxdcqnaw ljccun jwm cqn
mrbrwonlcrxw xo ljab jwm bcxlt hjamb jenajpnb 2.7 lnwcb yna jwrvju.

Cqn blrnwcrorl rwzdrarnb xo cqn Kdanjd xo Jwrvju Rwmdbcah qjen yaxpanbbnm
bcnjmruh mdarwp cqn hnja. Vdlq cdknaldurw jwm vjuunrw qjen knnw odawrbqnm cx
Bcjcn jdcqxarcrnb oxa dbn rw cqn jparlducdaju lxuunpnb jwm ngynarvnwc bcjcrxwb
oxa cqn canjcvnwc xo cdknalduxbrb jwm pujwmnab.

Zdrcn anlnwcuh cqrb Mnyjacvnwc qjb ydkurbqnm cqn anbducb xo rcb rwenbcrpjcrxwb
xo kxerwn cdknalduxbrb, jwm rcb anbnjalqnb fruu kn erpxaxdbuh lxwcrwdnm.
Lnacjrw qnamb rw cqn Mrbcarlc xo Lxudvkrj fruu kn cqxaxdpquh rwbynlcnm jwm
fruu yaxkjkuh bdyyuh jmnzdjcn blxyn oxa cqn Mnyjacvnwc cx rwcnuurpnwcuh
yaxbnldcn rcb blrnwcrorl fxat jwm odawrbq bdoorlrnwc vjcnarju oxa ydayxbnb xo
ruudbcajcrxw, mnblarycrxw, jwm mnorwrcrxw.

Cqn bcnarurijcrxw xo vrut bdbynlcnm xo lxwcjrwrwp cqn kjlruur xo cdknalduxbrb
qjb knnw mdarwp cqn hnja enah cqxaxdpquh ngyujrwnm rw j unjounc kh Ma. M. N.
Bjuvxw, cqn Lqrno xo cqn Kdanjd, jwm prenw pnwnaju lraldujcrxw cqaxdpqxdc cqn
lxdwcah.

Cqn Xoorln xo Ngynarvnwc Bcjcrxwb, fqrlq rb j yjac xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
Mnyjacvnwc xo Jparlducdan, qjb mdarwp cqn yjbc hnja nwpjpnm rcbnuo juvxbc
fqxuuh rw yanyjarwp oxa ydkurljcrxw fxatb kjbnm dyxw cqn anyxacb xo
jparlducdaju ngynarvnwc bcjcrxwb jwm xcqna rwbcrcdcrxwb oxa jparlducdaju
rwzdrah rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm oxanrpw lxdwcarnb.

Cqn Bnlancjah rw qrb anyxac oxa 1893 ljuunm jccnwcrxw cx cqn ojlc cqjc cqn
jyyaxyarjcrxwb vjmn oxa cqn bdyyxac xo cqn ngynarvnwc bcjcrxwb cqaxdpqxdc cqn
Dwrxw fnan cqn xwuh vxwnhb cjtnw xdc xo cqn Wjcrxwju Canjbdah kh jlc xo
Lxwpanbb oxa fqrlq wx jllxdwcrwp cx Onmnaju jdcqxarcrnb fjb anzdranm.
Anbyxwmrwp cx cqrb bdppnbcrxw, cqn Oroch-cqram Lxwpanbb, rw vjtrwp cqn
jyyaxyarjcrxw oxa cqn Mnyjacvnwc oxa cqn yanbnwc orblju hnja, yaxermnm cqjc--

Cqn Bnlancjah xo Jparlducdan bqjuu yanblarkn cqn oxav xo jwwdju orwjwlrju
bcjcnvnwc anzdranm kh bnlcrxw 3 xo bjrm jlc xo Vjalq 2, 1887; bqjuu jblnacjrw
fqncqna cqn ngynwmrcdanb dwmna cqn jyyaxyarjcrxw qnankh vjmn jan rw jllxamjwln
frcq cqn yaxerbrxwb xo bjrm jlc, jwm bqjuu vjtn anyxac cqnanxw cx Lxwpanbb.

Rw xknmrnwln cx cqrb ujf cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Jparlducdan rvvnmrjcnuh bnwc xdc
kujwt oxavb xo ngynwbn jllxdwcb cx njlq bcjcrxw, jwm yaxyxbnb rw jmmrcrxw cx
vjtn, cqaxdpq cadbcnm ngynacb, bhbcnvjcrl ngjvrwjcrxw xo cqn bnenaju bcjcrxwb
mdarwp njlq hnja oxa cqn ydayxbn xo jlzdrarwp kh ynabxwju rwenbcrpjcrxw cqn
mncjrunm rwoxavjcrxw wnlnbbjah cx nwjkun cqn Bnlancjah xo Jparlducdan cx vjtn,
jb cqn bcjcdcn yaxermnb, j bjcrbojlcxah anyxac cx Lxwpanbb. Cqn kxjamb xo
vjwjpnvnwc xo cqn bnenaju bcjcrxwb frcq panjc jujlarch jwm lxamrjurch qjen
jyyaxenm cqn jvnwmvnwc cx cqn ujf yaxermrwp cqrb bdynaerbrxw xo cqnra
ngynwmrcdanb, jwcrlryjcrwp cqjc rc fruu rwlanjbn cqn noorlrnwlh xo cqn
bcjcrxwb jwm yaxcnlc cqnra mranlcxab jwm vjwjpnab oaxv uxxbn lqjapnb
lxwlnawrwp cqnra dbn xo ydkurl odwmb, knbrmnb karwprwp cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo
Jparlducdan rwcx luxbna jwm vxan lxwormnwcrju anujcrxwb frcq cqn ngynarvnwcju
bcjcrxwb, jwm cqaxdpq cqnra sxrwc bnaerln ujapnuh rwlanjbrwp cqnra dbnoduwnbb
cx cqn jparlducdan xo cqn lxdwcah.

Jlcrwp dyxw j anlxvvnwmjcrxw lxwcjrwnm rw cqn anyxac xo 1893, Lxwpanbb
jyyaxyarjcnm $10,000 "cx nwjkun cqn Bnlancjah xo Jparlducdan cx rwenbcrpjcn
jwm anyxac dyxw cqn wdcarcren ejudn xo cqn ejarxdb jacrlunb jwm lxvvxmrcrnb
dbnm oxa qdvjw oxxm, frcq bynlrju bdppnbcrxwb xo oduu, fqxunbxvn, jwm nmrkun
ajcrxwb unbb fjbcnodu jwm vxan nlxwxvrlju cqjw cqxbn rw lxvvxw dbn."

Dwmna cqrb jyyaxyarjcrxw cqn Mnyjacvnwc qjb yanyjanm jwm wxf qjb wnjauh anjmh
oxa mrbcarkdcrxw jw nunvnwcjah mrbldbbrxw xo cqn wdcarcren ejudn jwm ynldwrjah
nlxwxvh xo oxxm. Fqnw fn lxwbrmna cqjc oduuh xwn-qjuo xo juu cqn vxwnh njawnm
kh cqn fjpn njawnab xo cqn lrerurinm fxaum rb ngynwmnm kh cqnv oxa oxxm, cqn
rvyxacjwln jwm dcrurch xo bdlq jw rwenbcrpjcrxw rb jyyjanwc.

Cqn Mnyjacvnwc ngynwmnm rw cqn orblju hnja 1893 $2,354,809.56, jwm xdc xo cqjc
bdv cqn cxcju jvxdwc ngynwmnm rw blrnwcrorl anbnjalq fjb 45.6 yna lnwc. Kdc rw
cqn hnja nwmrwp Sdwn 30, 1894, xdc xo j cxcju ngynwmrcdan xo $1,948,988.38,
cqn Mnyjacvnwc jyyurnm 51.8 yna lnwc xo cqjc bdv cx blrnwcrorl fxat jwm
rwenbcrpjcrxw. Rc rb cqnanoxan enah yujrwuh xkbnaejkun cqjc cqn nlxwxvrnb
fqrlq qjen knnw yajlcrlnm rw cqn jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc qjen wxc
knnw jc cqn ngynwbn xo blrnwcrorl anbnjalq.

Cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxw lxwcjrwnm rw cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah oxa 1893 cqjc cqn
erlrxdb bhbcnv xo yaxvrbldxdb oann mrbcarkdcrxw xo rcb mnyjacvnwcju mxldvnwcb
kn jkjwmxwnm rb jpjrw dapnm. Cqnbn ydkurljcrxwb vjh fnuu kn odawrbqnm frcqxdc
lxbc cx ydkurl urkajarnb, nmdljcrxwju rwbcrcdcrxwb, jwm cqn xoorlnab jwm
urkajarnb xo Bcjcnb jwm xo cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc; kdc oaxv juu rwmrermdjub
jyyuhrwp oxa cqnv j yarln lxenarwp cqn lxbc xo cqn mxldvnwc jbtnm oxa bqxdum
kn anzdranm. Cqdb cqn ydkurljcrxwb jwm mxldvnwcb fxdum kn bnldanm kh cqxbn fqx
anjuuh mnbran cqnv oxa yaxyna ydayxbnb. Qjuo j vruurxw xo lxyrnb xo cqn anyxac
xo cqn Bnlancjah xo Jparlducdan jan yarwcnm oxa mrbcarkdcrxw, jc jw jwwdju
lxbc xo jkxdc $300,000. Ujapn wdvknab xo cqnv jan ldvknarwp bcxanaxxvb jc cqn
Ljyrcxu jwm cqn bqnuenb xo bnlxwmqjwm-kxxt bcxanb cqaxdpqxdc cqn lxdwcah. Juu
cqrb ujkxa jwm fjbcn vrpqc kn jexrmnm ro cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxwb xo cqn Bnlancjah
fnan jmxycnm.

Cqn Bnlancjah jubx jpjrw anlxvvnwmb cqjc cqn pajcdrcxdb mrbcarkdcrxw xo bnnmb
lnjbn jwm cqjc wx vxwnh kn jyyaxyarjcnm oxa cqjc ydayxbn nglnyc cx ngynarvnwc
bcjcrxwb. Qn anrcnajcnb cqn anjbxwb prenw rw qrb anyxac oxa 1893 oxa
mrblxwcrwdrwp cqrb dwsdbcrorjkun pajcdrch, jwm R oduuh lxwlda rw cqn
lxwludbrxwb fqrlq qn qjb anjlqnm.

Cqn knbc bnaerln xo cqn bcjcrbcrlrjw xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Jparlducdan rb cqn
jblnacjrwvnwc, kh mrurpnwln jwm ljan, xo cqn jlcdju jwm anju lxwmrcrxwb,
ojexajkun xa dwojexajkun, xo cqn ojavnab jwm ojavb xo cqn lxdwcah, jwm cx bnnt
cqn ljdbnb fqrlq yaxmdln cqnbn lxwmrcrxwb, cx cqn nwm cqjc cqn ojlcb
jblnacjrwnm vjh pdrmn cqnra rwcnuurpnwc canjcvnwc.

J odacqna rvyxacjwc dcrurch rw jparlducdaju bcjcrbcrlb rb oxdwm rw cqnra
nudlrmjcrxw xo cqn anujcrxw xo cqn bdyyuh xo ojav yaxmdlcb cx cqn mnvjwm oxa
cqnv rw cqn vjatncb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm xo cqn fxaum.

Rc rb mnnvnm yxbbrkun cqjc jw jparlducdaju lnwbdb vjh kn cjtnw njlq hnja
cqaxdpq cqn jpnwcb xo cqn bcjcrbcrlju mrerbrxw xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc. Bdlq j
lxdabn rb lxvvnwmnm oxa carju kh cqn lqrno xo cqjc mrerbrxw. Rcb blxyn fxdum
kn: (1) Cqn janj dwmna njlq xo cqn vxan rvyxacjwc laxyb. (2) Cqn jppanpjcn
yaxmdlcb xo njlq xo bdlq laxyb. (3) Cqn zdjwcrch xo fqnjc jwm lxaw rw cqn
qjwmb xo ojavnab jc j mjcn jocna cqn byarwp bxfrwpb jwm yujwcrwpb jwm knoxan
cqn knprwwrwp xo qjaenbc, jwm jubx cqn zdjwcrch xo lxccxw jwm cxkjllx
anvjrwrwp rw cqn qjwmb xo yujwcnab, nrcqna jc cqn bjvn mjcn xa jc bxvn xcqna
mnbrpwjcnm crvn.

Cqn lxbc xo cqn fxat rb nbcrvjcnm jc $500,000.

Xfrwp cx cqn ynldurja zdjurch xo cqn bcjcrbcrlrjw'b fxat jwm cqn wjcdaju jwm
jlzdranm orcwnbb wnlnbbjah cx rcb bdllnbbodu yaxbnldcrxw, cqn Bnlancjah xo
Jparlducdan ngyanbbnb cqn xyrwrxw cqjc nenah ynabxw nvyuxhnm rw pjcqnarwp
bcjcrbcrlb dwmna cqn lqrno xo cqjc mrerbrxw bqxdum kn jmvrccnm cx cqjc bnaerln
xwuh jocna j cqxaxdpq, ngqjdbcren, jwm bdllnbbodu ngjvrwjcrxw jc cqn qjwmb xo
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb Lreru Bnaerln Lxvvrbbrxw. Cqrb qjb unm qrv cx ljuu oxa bdlq
ngjvrwjcrxw xo ljwmrmjcnb oxa cqn yxbrcrxw xo jbbrbcjwc bcjcrbcrlrjwb, jwm
jubx xo ljwmrmjcnb oxa lqrnob xo bnlcrxwb rw cqjc mrerbrxw.

Cqn fxat mxwn kh cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Jparlducdan rb enah bdynaorlrjuuh mnjuc
frcq rw cqrb lxvvdwrljcrxw, jwm R lxvvnwm cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah jwm cqn
enah rvyxacjwc rwcnanbcb frcq fqrlq rc mnjub cx cqn ljanodu jccnwcrxw xo cqn
Lxwpanbb.

Cqn jmejwcjpnb cx cqn ydkurl bnaerln xo jw jmqnanwln cx cqn yarwlryunb xo
lreru-bnaerln anoxav jan lxwbcjwcuh vxan jyyjanwc, jwm wxcqrwp rb bx
nwlxdajprwp cx cqxbn rw xoorlrju uron fqx qxwnbcuh mnbran pxxm pxenawvnwc jb
cqn rwlanjbrwp jyyanlrjcrxw kh xda ynxyun xo cqnbn jmejwcjpnb. J ejbc vjsxarch
xo cqn excnab xo cqn ujwm jan anjmh cx rwbrbc cqjc cqn crvn jwm jccnwcrxw xo
cqxbn cqnh bnunlc cx ynaoxav oxa cqnv rvyxacjwc ydkurl mdcrnb bqxdum wxc kn
mrbcajlcnm kh mxurwp xdc vrwxa xoorlnb, jwm cqnh jan paxfrwp cx kn dwjwrvxdb
rw anpjamrwp yjach xapjwrijcrxw jb bxvncqrwp cqjc bqxdum kn dbnm rw
nbcjkurbqrwp yjach yarwlryunb rwbcnjm xo mrlcjcrwp cqn mrbcarkdcrxw xo ydkurl
yujlnb jb anfjamb xo yjacrbjw jlcrerch.

Wdvnaxdb jmmrcrxwju xoorlnb jwm yujlnb qjen ujcnuh knnw kaxdpqc frcqrw
lreru-bnaerln adunb jwm anpdujcrxwb, jwm bxvn xcqnab fruu yaxkjkuh bxxw kn
rwludmnm.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Lxvvrbbrxwnab fruu kn bdkvrccnm cx cqn Lxwpanbb, jwm R
rwercn ljanodu jccnwcrxw cx cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxwb rc lxwcjrwb.

R jv nwcranuh lxwerwlnm cqjc fn xdpqc wxc cx kn uxwpna frcqxdc j wjcrxwju
kxjam xo qnjucq xa wjcrxwju qnjucq xoorlna lqjapnm frcq wx xcqna mdcrnb cqjw
bdlq jb ynacjrw cx cqn yaxcnlcrxw xo xda lxdwcah oaxv cqn rwejbrxw xo
ynbcrunwln jwm mrbnjbn. Cqrb fxdum rwexuen cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc kh bdlq kxjam xa
xoorlna xo yaxyna zdjajwcrwn yanljdcrxwb, xa cqn wnlnbbjah jrm jwm lxdwbnu cx
uxlju jdcqxarcrnb xw cqn bdksnlc; yaxvyc jmerln jwm jbbrbcjwln cx uxlju kxjamb
xo qnjucq xa qnjucq xoorlnab rw cqn bdyyanbbrxw xo lxwcjprxdb mrbnjbn, jwm rw
ljbnb fqnan cqnan jan wx bdlq uxlju kxjamb xa xoorlnab cqn rvvnmrjcn mranlcrxw
kh cqn wjcrxwju kxjam xa xoorlna xo vnjbdanb xo bdyyanbbrxw; lxwbcjwc jwm
jdcqnwcrl rwoxavjcrxw lxwlnawrwp cqn qnjucq xo oxanrpw lxdwcarnb jwm juu yjacb
xo xda xfw lxdwcah jb anujcnm cx lxwcjprxdb mrbnjbnb, jwm lxwbrmnajcrxw xo
anpdujcrxwb cx kn nwoxalnm rw oxanrpw yxacb cx yanenwc cqn rwcaxmdlcrxw xo
lxwcjprxw rwcx xda lrcrnb jwm cqn vnjbdanb fqrlq bqxdum kn jmxycnm cx bnldan
cqnra nwoxalnvnwc.

Cqnan bnnvb cx kn jc cqrb crvn j mnlrmnm rwlurwjcrxw cx mrbldbb vnjbdanb xo
yaxcnlcrxw jpjrwbc lxwcjprxdb mrbnjbnb rw rwcnawjcrxwju lxwonanwln, frcq j
ernf xo jmxycrwp vnjwb xo vdcdju jbbrbcjwln. Cqn lanjcrxw xo bdlq j wjcrxwju
qnjucq nbcjkurbqvnwc fxdum panjcuh jrm xda bcjwmrwp rw bdlq lxwonanwlnb jwm
rvyaxen xda xyyxacdwrcrnb cx jejru xdabnuenb xo cqnra knwnorcb.

R njawnbcuh anlxvvnwm cqn rwjdpdajcrxw xo j wjcrxwju kxjam xo qnjucq xa
brvruja wjcrxwju rwbcadvnwcjurch, knurnerwp cqn bjvn cx kn j wnnmnm yanljdcrxw
jpjrwbc lxwcjprxdb mrbnjbn jwm rw cqn rwcnanbc xo cqn bjonch jwm qnjucq xo xda
ynxyun.

Kh eracdn xo j bcjcdcn xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb yjbbnm rw 1888 R jyyxrwcnm rw Sduh
ujbc Qxw. Sxqw M. Tnawjw, xo cqn Bcjcn xo Wnf Hxat, jwm Qxw. Wrlqxujb N.
Fxacqrwpcxw, xo cqn Bcjcn xo Ruurwxrb, cx oxav, frcq Qxw. Ljaaxuu M. Farpqc,
Lxvvrbbrxwna xo Ujkxa, fqx fjb mnbrpwjcnm kh bjrm bcjcdcn, j lxvvrbbrxw oxa
cqn ydayxbn xo vjtrwp ljanodu rwzdrah rwcx cqn ljdbnb xo cqn lxwcaxenabrnb
kncfnnw lnacjrw ajruaxjmb jwm cqnra nvyuxhnnb fqrlq qjm anbducnm rw jw
ngcnwbren jwm mnbcadlcren bcartn, jllxvyjwrnm kh vdlq erxunwln jwm mjwpnaxdb
mrbcdakjwln, frcq lxwbrmnajkun uxbb xo uron jwm panjc mnbcadlcrxw xo yaxynach.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn lxvvrbbrxwnab qjb knnw bdkvrccnm cx vn jwm fruu kn
cajwbvrccnm cx cqn Lxwpanbb frcq cqn nermnwln cjtnw dyxw cqnra rwenbcrpjcrxw.

Cqnra fxat qjb knnw fnuu mxwn, jwm cqnra bcjwmrwp jwm rwcnuurpnwln pren
jbbdajwln cqjc cqn anyxac jwm bdppnbcrxwb cqnh vjtn jan fxacqh xo ljanodu
lxwbrmnajcrxw.

Cqn cjaroo jlc yjbbnm jc cqn ujbc bnbbrxw xo cqn Lxwpanbb wnnmb rvyxacjwc
jvnwmvnwcb ro rc rb cx kn ngnldcnm noonlcrenuh jwm frcq lnacjrwch. Rw jmmrcrxw
cx bdlq wnlnbbjah jvnwmvnwcb jb fruu wxc lqjwpn ajcnb xo mdch, R jv bcruu enah
mnlrmnmuh rw ojexa xo ydccrwp lxju jwm raxw dyxw cqn oann urbc.

Bx oja jb cqn bdpja blqnmdun rb lxwlnawnm, R fxdum kn pujm, dwmna ngrbcrwp
jppajejcrxwb, cx bnn nenah yjacrlun xo mroonanwcrju mdch rw ojexa xo anorwnm
bdpja bcarltnw xdc xo xda cjaroo ujf. Ro frcq juu cqn ojexa wxf jllxamnm cqn
bdpja-anorwrwp rwcnanbc rw xda cjaroo ujfb rc bcruu ujwpdrbqnb cx cqn ngcnwc
xo luxbnm anorwnarnb jwm cqxdbjwmb xo mrblqjapnm fxatvnw, rc fxdum bnnv cx
yanbnwc j qxynunbb ljbn oxa anjbxwjkun unprbujcren jrm. Fqjcnena nubn rb mxwn
xa xvrccnm, R njawnbcuh anynjc qnan cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxw R qjen vjmn rw jwxcqna
yxacrxw xo cqrb lxvvdwrljcrxw, cqjc cqn jmmrcrxwju mdch xo xwn-cnwcq xo j lnwc
yna yxdwm ujrm dyxw bdpja rvyxacnm oaxv lxdwcarnb yjhrwp j kxdwch xw rcb
ngyxac kn jkaxpjcnm. Rc bnnvb cx vn cqjc nglnnmrwpuh rvyxacjwc lxwbrmnajcrxwb
yxrwc cx cqn yaxyarnch xo cqrb jvnwmvnwc.

Frcq cqn jmenwc xo j wnf cjaroo yxurlh wxc xwuh ljuldujcnm cx anurnen cqn
lxwbdvnab xo xda ujwm rw cqn lxbc xo cqnra mjruh uron, kdc cx rwercn j knccna
mnenuxyvnwc xo Jvnarljw cqaroc jwm lanjcn oxa db luxbna jwm vxan yaxorcjkun
lxvvnalrju anujcrxwb frcq cqn anbc xo cqn fxaum, rc oxuuxfb jb j uxprlju jwm
rvynajcren wnlnbbrch cqjc fn bqxdum jc xwln anvxen cqn lqrno ro wxc cqn xwuh
xkbcjlun fqrlq qjb bx uxwp yanenwcnm xda yjacrlryjcrxw rw cqn oxanrpw ljaahrwp
cajmn xo cqn bnj. J cjaroo kdruc dyxw cqn cqnxah cqjc rc rb fnuu cx lqnlt
rvyxacb jwm cqjc j qxvn vjatnc bqxdum kxdwm cqn rwmdbcah jwm nooxac xo
Jvnarljw yaxmdlnab fjb orcuh bdyyunvnwcnm kh j anodbju cx juuxf Jvnarljw
anprbcah cx enbbnub kdruc jkaxjm, cqxdpq xfwnm jwm wjerpjcnm kh xda ynxyun,
cqdb ngqrkrcrwp j fruurwpwnbb cx jkjwmxw juu lxwcnbc oxa cqn jmejwcjpnb xo
Jvnarljw cajwbxlnjwrl ljaarjpn. Xda wnf cjaroo yxurlh, kdruc dyxw cqn cqnxah
cqjc rc rb fnuu cx nwlxdajpn bdlq rvyxacjcrxwb jb xda ynxyun wnnm, jwm cqjc
xda yaxmdlcb jwm vjwdojlcdanb bqxdum orwm vjatncb rw nenah yjac xo cqn
qjkrcjkun puxkn, rb lxwbrbcnwcuh bdyyunvnwcnm kh cqn panjcnbc yxbbrkun urknach
cx xda lrcrinwb rw cqn xfwnabqry jwm wjerpjcrxw xo bqryb rw fqrlq xda yaxmdlcb
jwm vjwdojlcdanb vjh kn cajwbyxacnm. Cqn vruurxwb wxf yjrm cx oxanrpwnab oxa
ljaahrwp Jvnarljw yjbbnwpnab jwm yaxmdlcb jlaxbb cqn bnj bqxdum kn cdawnm rwcx
Jvnarljw qjwmb. Bqrykdrumrwp, fqrlq qjb knnw yaxcnlcnm cx bcajwpdujcrxw,
bqxdum kn anerenm kh cqn yaxbynlc xo yaxorcjkun nvyuxhvnwc oxa bqryb fqnw
kdruc, jwm cqn Jvnarljw bjruxa bqxdum kn anbdaanlcnm jwm jpjrw cjtn qrb
yujln--j bcdamh jwm rwmdbcarxdb lrcrinw rw crvn xo ynjln jwm j yjcarxcrl jwm
bjon mnonwmna xo Jvnarljw rwcnanbcb rw cqn mjh xo lxwourlc.

Cqn jwlrnwc yaxerbrxw xo xda ujf mnwhrwp Jvnarljw anprbcah cx bqryb kdruc
jkaxjm jwm xfwnm kh Jvnarljwb jyynjab rw cqn urpqc xo yanbnwc lxwmrcrxwb wxc
xwuh cx kn j ojrudan oxa pxxm jc nenah yxrwc, kdc cx kn wnjana j anurl xo
kjakjarbv cqjw jwhcqrwp cqjc ngrbcb dwmna cqn ynavrbbrxw xo j bcjcdcn xo cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. R njawnbcuh anlxvvnwm rcb yaxvyc anynju.

Mdarwp cqn ujbc vxwcq cqn pxum anbnaenm rw cqn Canjbdah oxa cqn ydayxbn xo
anmnnvrwp cqn wxcnb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc lraldujcrwp jb vxwnh rw cqn qjwmb xo cqn
ynxyun knljvn bx anmdlnm jwm rcb odacqna mnyuncrxw rw cqn wnja odcdan bnnvnm
bx lnacjrw cqjc rw cqn ngnalrbn xo yaxyna ljan oxa cqn ydkurl fnuojan rc
knljvn wnlnbbjah cx anyunwrbq cqrb anbnaen jwm cqdb vjrwcjrw yxyduja ojrcq rw
cqn jkrurch jwm mncnavrwjcrxw xo cqn Pxenawvnwc cx vnnc jb jpannm rcb
ynldwrjah xkurpjcrxwb.

Rc fxdum qjen knnw fnuu ro rw cqrb nvnapnwlh jdcqxarch qjm ngrbcnm cx rbbdn
cqn kxwmb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc knjarwp j uxf ajcn xo rwcnanbc jwm vjcdarwp frcqrw
j bqxac ynarxm; kdc cqn Lxwpanbb qjerwp ojrunm cx lxwona bdlq jdcqxarch,
anbxac fjb wnlnbbjaruh qjm cx cqn anbdvycrxw jlc xo 1875, jwm ydabdjwc cx rcb
yaxerbrxwb kxwmb fnan rbbdnm majfrwp rwcnanbc jc cqn ajcn xo 5 yna lnwc yna
jwwdv jwm vjcdarwp cnw hnjab jocna cqnra rbbdn, cqjc knrwp cqn bqxacnbc crvn
jdcqxarinm kh cqn jlc. R jv pujm cx bjh, qxfnena, cqjc xw cqn bjun xo cqnbn
kxwmb cqn yanvrdv anlnrenm xynajcnm cx anmdln cqn ajcn xo rwcnanbc cx kn yjrm
kh cqn Pxenawvnwc cx unbb cqjw 3 yna lnwc.

Wxcqrwp lxdum kn fxabn xa odacqna anvxenm oaxv bnwbrkun orwjwln cqjw cqn
anujcrxwb ngrbcrwp kncfnnw cqn ldaanwlh cqn Pxenawvnwc qjb rbbdnm, cqn pxum
qnum oxa rcb anmnvycrxw, jwm cqn vnjwb fqrlq vdbc kn anbxacnm cx oxa cqn
ydayxbn xo anyunwrbqrwp bdlq anmnvycrxw odwm fqnw rvyjranm. Nenw ro cqn lujrvb
dyxw cqrb odwm fnan lxworwnm cx cqn xkurpjcrxwb xarprwjuuh rwcnwmnm jwm ro cqn
anmnvycrxw xo cqnbn xkurpjcrxwb vnjwc cqnra ljwlnuujcrxw, cqn odwm fxdum kn
enah bvjuu. Kdc cqnbn xkurpjcrxwb fqnw anlnrenm jwm anmnnvnm rw pxum jan wxc
ljwlnunm, kdc jan anrbbdnm jwm vjh mx mdch vjwh crvnb kh fjh xo majfrwp pxum
oaxv cqn Canjbdah. Cqdb fn qjen jw nwmunbb lqjrw rw xynajcrxw lxwbcjwcuh
mnyuncrwp cqn Canjbdah'b pxum jwm wnena wnja j orwju anbc. Jb ro cqrb fjb wxc
kjm nwxdpq, fn qjen, kh j bcjcdcxah mnlujajcrxw cqjc rc rb cqn yxurlh xo cqn
Pxenawvnwc cx vjrwcjrw cqn yjarch kncfnnw pxum jwm bruena, jrmnm cqn oxaln jwm
vxvnwcdv xo cqrb ngqjdbcrwp yaxlnbb jwm jmmnm ujapnuh cx cqn ldaanwlh
xkurpjcrxwb lujrvrwp cqrb ynldurja pxum anmnvycrxw. Xda bvjuu pxum anbnaen rb
cqdb bdksnlc cx majrw oaxv nenah brmn. Cqn mnvjwmb cqjc rwlanjbn xda mjwpna
jubx rwlanjbn cqn wnlnbbrch xo yaxcnlcrwp cqrb anbnaen jpjrwbc mnyuncrxw, jwm
rc rb vxbc dwbjcrbojlcxah cx twxf cqjc cqn yaxcnlcrxw jooxamnm rb xwuh j
cnvyxajah yjuurjcrxw.

Rc rb ynaonlcuh jwm yjuyjkuh yujrw cqjc cqn xwuh fjh dwmna yanbnwc lxwmrcrxwb
kh fqrlq cqrb anbnaen fqnw mjwpnaxdbuh mnyuncnm ljw kn anyunwrbqnm rb cqaxdpq
cqn rbbdn jwm bjun xo cqn kxwmb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc oxa pxum, jwm hnc Lxwpanbb
qjb wxc xwuh cqdb oja mnlurwnm cx jdcqxarin cqn rbbdn xo kxwmb knbc bdrcnm cx
bdlq j ydayxbn, kdc cqnan bnnvb j mrbyxbrcrxw rw bxvn zdjacnab cx mnwh kxcq
cqn wnlnbbrch jwm yxfna oxa cqn rbbdn xo kxwmb jc juu.

R ljw wxc oxa j vxvnwc knurnen cqjc jwh xo xda lrcrinwb jan mnurknajcnuh
fruurwp cqjc cqnra Pxenawvnwc bqxdum mnojduc rw rcb ynldwrjah xkurpjcrxwb xa
cqjc rcb orwjwlrju xynajcrxwb bqxdum kn anmdlnm cx j bruena kjbrb. Jc jwh
ajcn, R bqxdum wxc onnu cqjc vh mdch fjb mxwn ro R xvrccnm jwh nooxac R lxdum
vjtn cx jenac bdlq j ljujvrch. Jb uxwp, cqnanoxan, jb wx yaxerbrxw rb vjmn oxa
cqn orwju anmnvycrxw xa cqn ydccrwp jbrmn xo cqn ldaanwlh xkurpjcrxw wxf dbnm
cx anynjcnmuh jwm lxwbcjwcuh majf oaxv cqn Pxenawvnwc rcb pxum, jwm jb uxwp jb
wx knccna jdcqxarch oxa kxwm rbbdnb rb juuxfnm cqjw jc yanbnwc ngrbcb, bdlq
jdcqxarch fruu kn dcrurinm fqnwnena jwm jb xocnw jb rc knlxvnb wnlnbbjah cx
vjrwcjrw j bdoorlrnwc pxum anbnaen, jwm rw jkdwmjwc crvn cx bjen cqn lanmrc xo
xda lxdwcah jwm vjtn pxxm cqn orwjwlrju mnlujajcrxwb xo xda Pxenawvnwc.

Zdnbcrxwb anujcrwp cx xda kjwtb jwm ldaanwlh jan luxbnuh lxwwnlcnm frcq cqn
bdksnlc sdbc anonaanm cx, jwm cqnh jubx yanbnwc bxvn dwbjcrbojlcxah onjcdanb.
Yaxvrwnwc jvxwp cqnv jan cqn ujlt xo nujbcrlrch rw xda ldaanwlh lraldujcrxw
jwm rcb oanzdnwc lxwlnwcajcrxw rw orwjwlrju lnwcnab fqnw rc rb vxbc wnnmnm rw
xcqna yjacb xo cqn lxdwcah.

Cqn jkbxudcn mrexalnvnwc xo cqn Pxenawvnwc oaxv cqn kdbrwnbb xo kjwtrwp rb cqn
rmnju anujcrxwbqry xo cqn Pxenawvnwc cx cqn lraldujcrxw xo cqn ldaanwlh xo cqn
lxdwcah.

Cqrb lxwmrcrxw ljw wxc kn rvvnmrjcnuh anjlqnm, kdc jb j bcny rw cqjc mranlcrxw
jwm jb j vnjwb xo bnldarwp j vxan nujbcrl ldaanwlh jwm xkerjcrwp xcqna
xksnlcrxwb cx cqn yanbnwc jaajwpnvnwc xo kjwt lraldujcrxw cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn
Canjbdah yanbnwcb rw qrb anyxac j blqnvn vxmrohrwp yanbnwc kjwtrwp ujfb jwm
yaxermrwp oxa cqn rbbdn xo lraldujcrwp wxcnb kh Bcjcn kjwtb oann oaxv cjgjcrxw
dwmna lnacjrw urvrcjcrxwb.

Cqn Bnlancjah ngyujrwb qrb yujw bx yujrwuh jwm rcb jmejwcjpnb jan mnenuxynm kh
qrv frcq bdlq anvjatjkun lunjawnbb cqjc jwh nooxac xw vh yjac cx yanbnwc
japdvnwc rw rcb bdyyxac fxdum kn bdynaoudxdb. R bqjuu cqnanoxan lxwcnwc vhbnuo
frcq jw dwzdjurornm rwmxabnvnwc xo cqn Bnlancjah'b yaxyxbnm lqjwpnb rw cqn ujf
jwm j karno jwm rvynaonlc bcjcnvnwc xo cqnra yaxvrwnwc onjcdanb. Rc rb
yaxyxbnm cx anynju juu ujfb yaxermrwp oxa cqn mnyxbrc xo Dwrcnm Bcjcnb kxwmb
jb bnldarch oxa lraldujcrxw; cx ynavrc wjcrxwju kjwtb cx rbbdn lraldujcrwp
wxcnb wxc nglnnmrwp rw jvxdwc 75 yna lnwc xo cqnra yjrm-dy jwm dwrvyjranm
ljyrcju, yaxermnm cqnh mnyxbrc frcq cqn Pxenawvnwc jb j pdjajwch odwm, rw
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb unpju-cnwmna wxcnb, rwludmrwp Canjbdah wxcnb xo 1890, j bdv
nzdju rw jvxdwc cx 30 yna lnwc xo cqn wxcnb cqnh mnbran cx rbbdn, cqrb mnyxbrc
cx kn vjrwcjrwnm jc juu crvnb, kdc fqnwnena jwh kjwt ancranb jwh yjac xo rcb
lraldujcrxw j yaxyxacrxwju yjac xo rcb pdjajwch odwm bqjuu kn ancdawnm cx rc;
cx ynavrc cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah cx yanyjan jwm tnny xw qjwm anjmh oxa
rbbdn rw ljbn jw rwlanjbn rw lraldujcrxw rb mnbranm kujwt wjcrxwju-kjwt wxcnb
oxa njlq kjwt qjerwp lraldujcrxw jwm cx anynju cqn yaxerbrxwb xo cqn yanbnwc
ujf rvyxbrwp urvrcjcrxwb jwm anbcarlcrxwb dyxw kjwtb mnbrarwp cx anmdln xa
rwlanjbn cqnra lraldujcrxw, cqdb ynavrccrwp bdlq rwlanjbn xa anmdlcrxw frcqrw
cqn urvrc xo 75 yna lnwc xo ljyrcju cx kn zdrltuh vjmn jb nvnapnwlrnb jarbn.

Rw jmmrcrxw cx cqn pdjajwch odwm anzdranm, rc rb yaxyxbnm cx yaxermn j bjonch
odwm oxa cqn rvvnmrjcn anmnvycrxw xo cqn lraldujcrwp wxcnb xo ojrunm kjwtb kh
rvyxbrwp j bvjuu jwwdju cjg, bjh xwn-qjuo xo 1 yna lnwc, dyxw cqn jenajpn
lraldujcrxw xo njlq kjwt dwcru cqn odwm jvxdwcb cx 5 yna lnwc xo cqn cxcju
lraldujcrxw xdcbcjwmrwp. Fqnw j kjwt ojrub rcb pdjajwch odwm rb cx kn yjrm
rwcx cqrb bjonch odwm jwm rcb wxcnb jan cx kn anmnnvnm rw cqn orabc rwbcjwln
oaxv bdlq bjonch odwm cqdb jdpvnwcnm, jwh rvyjravnwc xo bdlq odwm ljdbnm
cqnankh cx kn vjmn pxxm oaxv cqn rvvnmrjcnuh jejrujkun ljbq jbbncb xo bjrm
kjwt, jwm ro cqnbn bqxdum kn rwbdoorlrnwc bdlq rvyjravnwc cx kn vjmn pxxm kh
yax ajcj jbbnbbvnwc jvxwp cqn xcqna kjwtb, cqnra lxwcarkdcrxwb lxwbcrcdcrwp j
orabc urnw dyxw cqn jbbncb xo cqn ojrunm kjwt rw ojexa xo cqn lxwcarkdcrwp
kjwtb. Jb j odacqna bnldarch rc rb lxwcnvyujcnm cqjc cqn ngrbcrwp yaxerbrxw
orgrwp cqn rwmrermdju urjkrurch xo bcxltqxumnab rb cx kn ancjrwnm jwm cqn
kjwt'b rwmnkcnmwnbb xw jllxdwc xo rcb lraldujcrwp wxcnb rb cx kn vjmn j orabc
urnw xw juu rcb jbbncb.

Oxa cqn ydayxbn xo vnncrwp cqn ngynwbn xo yarwcrwp wxcnb, xoorlrju
bdynaerbrxw, ljwlnuujcrxw, jwm xcqna urtn lqjapnb cqnan bqjuu kn rvyxbnm j cjg
xo bjh xwn-qjuo xo 1 yna lnwc yna jwwdv dyxw cqn jenajpn jvxdwc xo wxcnb rw
lraldujcrxw.

Rc rb odacqna yaxermnm cqjc cqnan bqjuu kn wx wjcrxwju-kjwt wxcnb rbbdnm xo j
unbb mnwxvrwjcrxw cqjw $10; cqjc njlq wjcrxwju kjwt, nglnyc rw ljbn xo j
ojrunm kjwt, bqjuu anmnnv xa ancran rcb wxcnb rw cqn orabc rwbcjwln jc rcb xfw
xoorln xa jc jpnwlrnb cx kn mnbrpwjcnm kh rc, jwm cqjc wx orgnm anbnaen wnnm
kn vjrwcjrwnm xw jllxdwc xo mnyxbrcb.

Jwxcqna enah rvyxacjwc onjcdan xo cqrb yujw rb cqn ngnvycrxw xo Bcjcn kjwtb
oaxv cjgjcrxw kh cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rw ljbnb fqnan rc rb bqxfw cx cqn
bjcrbojlcrxw xo cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah jwm Lxvycaxuuna xo cqn Ldaanwlh
kh kjwtb lujrvrwp bdlq ngnvycrxw cqjc cqnh qjen wxc qjm xdcbcjwmrwp cqnra
lraldujcrwp wxcnb nglnnmrwp 75 yna lnwc xo cqnra yjrm-dy jwm dwrvyjranm
ljyrcju; cqjc cqnra bcxltqxumnab jan rwmrermdjuuh urjkun oxa cqn anmnvycrxw xo
cqnra lraldujcrwp wxcnb cx cqn oduu ngcnwc xo cqnra xfwnabqry xo bcxlt; cqjc
cqn urjkrurch xo bjrm kjwtb dyxw cqnra lraldujcrwp wxcnb lxwbcrcdcnb dwmna
cqnra Bcjcn ujf j orabc urnw dyxw cqnra jbbncb; cqjc bdlq kjwtb qjen tnyc jwm
vjrwcjrwnm j pdjajwch odwm rw Dwrcnm Bcjcnb unpju-cnwmna wxcnb, rwludmrwp
Canjbdah wxcnb xo 1890, nzdju cx 30 yna lnwc xo cqnra xdcbcjwmrwp lraldujcrwp
wxcnb, jwm cqjc bdlq kjwtb qjen yaxvycuh anmnnvnm cqnra lraldujcrwp wxcnb fqnw
yanbnwcnm jc cqnra yarwlryju xa kajwlq xoorlnb.

Rc rb zdrcn urtnuh cqjc cqrb blqnvn vjh kn dbnoduuh jvnwmnm rw bxvn xo rcb
mncjrub, kdc R jv bjcrbornm rc odawrbqnb j kjbrb oxa j enah panjc rvyaxenvnwc
rw xda yanbnwc kjwtrwp jwm ldaanwlh bhbcnv.

R lxwludmn cqrb lxvvdwrljcrxw oduuh jyyanlrjcrwp cqjc cqn anbyxwbrkrurch oxa
juu unprbujcrxw joonlcrwp cqn ynxyun xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb anbcb dyxw cqnra
anyanbnwcjcrenb rw cqn Lxwpanbb, jwm jbbdarwp cqnv cqjc, fqncqna rw jllxamjwln
frcq anlxvvnwmjcrxwb R qjen vjmn xa wxc, R bqjuu kn pujm cx lxxynajcn rw
ynaonlcrwp jwh unprbujcrxw cqjc cnwmb cx cqn yaxbynarch jwm fnuojan xo xda
lxdwcah.

PAXENA LUNENUJWM