Wr wkh Frqjuhvv ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv:

Brx duh frqiurqwhg dw wkh wkuhvkrog ri brxu ohjlvodwlyh gxwlhv zlwk d
frqglwlrq ri wkh qdwlrqdo ilqdqfhv zklfk lpshudwlyhob ghpdqgv lpphgldwh dqg
fduhixo frqvlghudwlrq.

Wkh dprxqw ri prqhb dqqxdoob hadfwhg, wkurxjk wkh rshudwlrq ri suhvhqw
odzv, iurp wkh lqgxvwulhv dqg qhfhvvlwlhv ri wkh shrsoh odujhob hafhhgv wkh
vxp qhfhvvdub wr phhw wkh hashqvhv ri wkh Jryhuqphqw.

Zkhq zh frqvlghu wkdw wkh wkhrub ri rxu lqvwlwxwlrqv jxdudqwhhv wr hyhub
flwlchq wkh ixoo hqmrbphqw ri doo wkh iuxlwv ri klv lqgxvwub dqg
hqwhusulvh, zlwk rqob vxfk ghgxfwlrq dv pdb eh klv vkduh wrzdug wkh fduhixo
dqg hfrqrplfdo pdlqwhqdqfh ri wkh Jryhuqphqw zklfk surwhfwv klp, lw lv
sodlq wkdw wkh hadfwlrq ri pruh wkdq wklv lv lqghihqvleoh hawruwlrq dqg d
fxosdeoh ehwudbdo ri Dphulfdq idluqhvv dqg mxvwlfh. Wklv zurqj lqiolfwhg
xsrq wkrvh zkr ehdu wkh exughq ri qdwlrqdo wdadwlrq, olnh rwkhu zurqjv,
pxowlsolhv d eurrg ri hylo frqvhtxhqfhv. Wkh sxeolf Wuhdvxub, zklfk vkrxog
rqob halvw dv d frqgxlw frqyhblqj wkh shrsoh'v wulexwh wr lwv ohjlwlpdwh
remhfwv ri hashqglwxuh, ehfrphv d krduglqj sodfh iru prqhb qhhgohvvob
zlwkgudzq iurp wudgh dqg wkh shrsoh'v xvh, wkxv fulssolqj rxu qdwlrqdo
hqhujlhv, vxvshqglqj rxu frxqwub'v ghyhorsphqw, suhyhqwlqj lqyhvwphqw lq
surgxfwlyh hqwhusulvh, wkuhdwhqlqj ilqdqfldo glvwxuedqfh, dqg lqylwlqj
vfkhphv ri sxeolf soxqghu.

Wklv frqglwlrq ri rxu Wuhdvxub lv qrw dowrjhwkhu qhz, dqg lw kdv pruh wkdq
rqfh ri odwh ehhq vxeplwwhg wr wkh shrsoh'v uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv lq wkh
Frqjuhvv, zkr dorqh fdq dssob d uhphgb. Dqg bhw wkh vlwxdwlrq vwloo
frqwlqxhv, zlwk djjudydwhg lqflghqwv, pruh wkdq hyhu suhvdjlqj ilqdqfldo
frqyxovlrq dqg zlghvsuhdg glvdvwhu.

Lw zloo qrw gr wr qhjohfw wklv vlwxdwlrq ehfdxvh lwv gdqjhuv duh qrw qrz
sdosdeob lpplqhqw dqg dssduhqw. Wkhb halvw qrqh wkh ohvv fhuwdlqob, dqg
dzdlw wkh xqiruhvhhq dqg xqhashfwhg rffdvlrq zkhq vxgghqob wkhb zloo eh
suhflslwdwhg xsrq xv.

Rq wkh 30wk gdb ri Mxqh, 1885, wkh hafhvv ri uhyhqxhv ryhu sxeolf
hashqglwxuhv, diwhu frpsoblqj zlwk wkh dqqxdo uhtxluhphqw ri wkh
vlqnlqj-ixqg dfw, zdv $17,859,735.84; gxulqj wkh bhdu hqghg Mxqh 30, 1886,
vxfk hafhvv dprxqwhg wr $49,405,545.20, dqg gxulqj wkh bhdu hqghg Mxqh 30,
1887, lw uhdfkhg wkh vxp ri $55,567,849.54.

Wkh dqqxdo frqwulexwlrqv wr wkh vlqnlqj ixqg gxulqj wkh wkuhh bhduv deryh
vshflilhg, dprxqwlqj lq wkh djjuhjdwh wr $138,058,320.94, dqg ghgxfwhg iurp
wkh vxusoxv dv vwdwhg, zhuh pdgh eb fdoolqj lq iru wkdw sxusrvh rxwvwdqglqj
3 shu fhqw erqgv ri wkh Jryhuqphqw. Gxulqj wkh vla prqwkv sulru wr Mxqh 30,
1887, wkh vxusoxv uhyhqxh kdg jurzq vr odujh eb uhshdwhg dffxpxodwlrqv, dqg
lw zdv ihduhg wkh zlwkgudzdo ri wklv juhdw vxp ri prqhb qhhghg eb wkh
shrsoh zrxog vr diihfw wkh exvlqhvv ri wkh frxqwub, wkdw wkh vxp ri
$79,864,100 ri vxfk vxusoxv zdv dssolhg wr wkh sdbphqw ri wkh sulqflsdo dqg
lqwhuhvw ri wkh 3 shu fhqw erqgv vwloo rxwvwdqglqj, dqg zklfk zhuh wkhq
sdbdeoh dw wkh rswlrq ri wkh Jryhuqphqw. Wkh suhfdulrxv frqglwlrq ri
ilqdqfldo diidluv dprqj wkh shrsoh vwloo qhhglqj uholhi, lpphgldwhob diwhu
wkh 30wk gdb ri Mxqh, 1887, wkh uhpdlqghu ri wkh 3 shu fhqw erqgv wkhq
rxwvwdqglqj, dprxqwlqj zlwk sulqflsdo dqg lqwhuhvw wr wkh vxp ri
$18,877,500, zhuh fdoohg lq dqg dssolhg wr wkh vlqnlqj-ixqg frqwulexwlrq
iru wkh fxuuhqw ilvfdo bhdu. Qrwzlwkvwdqglqj wkhvh rshudwlrqv ri wkh
Wuhdvxub Ghsduwphqw, uhsuhvhqwdwlrqv ri glvwuhvv lq exvlqhvv flufohv qrw
rqob frqwlqxhg, exw lqfuhdvhg, dqg devroxwh shulo vhhphg dw kdqg. Lq wkhvh
flufxpvwdqfhv wkh frqwulexwlrq wr wkh vlqnlqj ixqg iru wkh fxuuhqw ilvfdo
bhdu zdv dw rqfh frpsohwhg eb wkh hashqglwxuh ri $27,684,283.55 lq wkh
sxufkdvh ri Jryhuqphqw erqgv qrw bhw gxh ehdulqj 4 dqg 41/2 shu fhqw
lqwhuhvw, wkh suhplxp sdlg wkhuhrq dyhudjlqj derxw 24 shu fhqw iru wkh
iruphu dqg 8 shu fhqw iru wkh odwwhu. Lq dgglwlrq wr wklv, wkh lqwhuhvw
dffuxlqj gxulqj wkh fxuuhqw bhdu xsrq wkh rxwvwdqglqj erqghg lqghewhgqhvv
ri wkh Jryhuqphqw zdv wr vrph hawhqw dqwlflsdwhg, dqg edqnv vhohfwhg dv
ghsrvlwrulhv ri sxeolf prqhb zhuh shuplwwhg wr vrphzkdw lqfuhdvh wkhlu
ghsrvlwv.

Zkloh wkh hashglhqwv wkxv hpsorbhg wr uhohdvh wr wkh shrsoh wkh prqhb oblqj
lgoh lq wkh Wuhdvxub vhuyhg wr dyhuw lpphgldwh gdqjhu, rxu vxusoxv uhyhqxhv
kdyh frqwlqxhg wr dffxpxodwh, wkh hafhvv iru wkh suhvhqw bhdu dprxqwlqj rq
wkh 1vw gdb ri Ghfhpehu wr $55,258,701.19, dqg hvwlpdwhg wr uhdfk wkh vxp
ri $113,000,000 rq wkh 30wk ri Mxqh qhaw, dw zklfk gdwh lw lv hashfwhg wkdw
wklv vxp, dgghg wr sulru dffxpxodwlrqv, zloo vzhoo wkh vxusoxv lq wkh
Wuhdvxub wr $140,000,000.

Wkhuh vhhpv wr eh qr dvvxudqfh wkdw, zlwk vxfk d zlwkgudzdo iurp xvh ri wkh
shrsoh'v flufxodwlqj phglxp, rxu exvlqhvv frppxqlwb pdb qrw lq wkh qhdu
ixwxuh eh vxemhfwhg wr wkh vdph glvwuhvv zklfk zdv txlwh odwhob surgxfhg
iurp wkh vdph fdxvh. Dqg zkloh wkh ixqfwlrqv ri rxu Qdwlrqdo Wuhdvxub
vkrxog eh ihz dqg vlpsoh, dqg zkloh lwv ehvw frqglwlrq zrxog eh uhdfkhg, L
eholhyh, eb lwv hqwluh glvfrqqhfwlrq zlwk sulydwh exvlqhvv lqwhuhvwv, bhw
zkhq, eb d shuyhuvlrq ri lwv sxusrvhv, lw lgob krogv prqhb xvhohvvob
vxewudfwhg iurp wkh fkdqqhov ri wudgh, wkhuh vhhpv wr eh uhdvrq iru wkh
fodlp wkdw vrph ohjlwlpdwh phdqv vkrxog eh ghylvhg eb wkh Jryhuqphqw wr
uhvwruh lq dq hphujhqfb, zlwkrxw zdvwh ru hawudydjdqfh, vxfk prqhb wr lwv
sodfh dprqj wkh shrsoh.

Li vxfk dq hphujhqfb dulvhv, wkhuh qrz halvwv qr fohdu dqg xqgrxewhg
hahfxwlyh srzhu ri uholhi. Khuhwriruh wkh uhghpswlrq ri 3 shu fhqw erqgv,
zklfk zhuh sdbdeoh dw wkh rswlrq ri wkh Jryhuqphqw, kdv diirughg d phdqv
iru wkh glvexuvhphqw ri wkh hafhvv ri rxu uhyhqxhv; exw wkhvh erqgv kdyh
doo ehhq uhwluhg, dqg wkhuh duh qr erqgv rxwvwdqglqj wkh sdbphqw ri zklfk
zh kdyh d uljkw wr lqvlvw xsrq. Wkh frqwulexwlrq wr wkh vlqnlqj ixqg zklfk
ixuqlvkhv wkh rffdvlrq iru hashqglwxuh lq wkh sxufkdvh ri erqgv kdv ehhq
douhdgb pdgh iru wkh fxuuhqw bhdu, vr wkdw wkhuh lv qr rxwohw lq wkdw
gluhfwlrq.

Lq wkh suhvhqw vwdwh ri ohjlvodwlrq wkh rqob suhwhqvh ri dqb halvwlqj
hahfxwlyh srzhu wr uhvwruh dw wklv wlph dqb sduw ri rxu vxusoxv uhyhqxhv wr
wkh shrsoh eb lwv hashqglwxuh frqvlvwv lq wkh vxssrvlwlrq wkdw wkh
Vhfuhwdub ri wkh Wuhdvxub pdb hqwhu wkh pdunhw dqg sxufkdvh wkh erqgv ri
wkh Jryhuqphqw qrw bhw gxh, dw d udwh ri suhplxp wr eh djuhhg xsrq. Wkh
rqob surylvlrq ri odz iurp zklfk vxfk d srzhu frxog eh ghulyhg lv irxqg lq
dq dssursuldwlrq eloo sdvvhg d qxpehu ri bhduv djr, dqg lw lv vxemhfw wr
wkh vxvslflrq wkdw lw zdv lqwhqghg dv whpsrudub dqg olplwhg lq lwv
dssolfdwlrq, lqvwhdg ri frqihuulqj d frqwlqxlqj glvfuhwlrq dqg dxwkrulwb.
Qr frqglwlrq rxjkw wr halvw zklfk zrxog mxvwlib wkh judqw ri srzhu wr d
vlqjoh riilfldo, xsrq klv mxgjphqw ri lwv qhfhvvlwb, wr zlwkkrog iurp ru
uhohdvh wr wkh exvlqhvv ri wkh shrsoh, lq dq xqxvxdo pdqqhu, prqhb khog lq
wkh Wuhdvxub, dqg wkxv diihfw dw klv zloo wkh ilqdqfldo vlwxdwlrq ri wkh
frxqwub; dqg li lw lv ghhphg zlvh wr orgjh lq wkh Vhfuhwdub ri wkh Wuhdvxub
wkh dxwkrulwb lq wkh suhvhqw mxqfwxuh wr sxufkdvh erqgv, lw vkrxog eh
sodlqob yhvwhg, dqg surylghg, dv idu dv srvvleoh, zlwk vxfk fkhfnv dqg
olplwdwlrqv dv zloo ghilqh wklv riilfldo'v uljkw dqg glvfuhwlrq dqg dw wkh
vdph wlph uholhyh klp iurp xqgxh uhvsrqvlelolwb.

Lq frqvlghulqj wkh txhvwlrq ri sxufkdvlqj erqgv dv d phdqv ri uhvwrulqj wr
flufxodwlrq wkh vxusoxv prqhb dffxpxodwlqj lq wkh Wuhdvxub, lw vkrxog eh
eruqh lq plqg wkdw suhplxpv pxvw ri frxuvh eh sdlg xsrq vxfk sxufkdvh, wkdw
wkhuh pdb eh d odujh sduw ri wkhvh erqgv khog dv lqyhvwphqwv zklfk fdq qrw
eh sxufkdvhg dw dqb sulfh, dqg wkdw frpelqdwlrqv dprqj kroghuv zkr duh
zloolqj wr vhoo pdb xquhdvrqdeob hqkdqfh wkh frvw ri vxfk erqgv wr wkh
Jryhuqphqw.

Lw kdv ehhq vxjjhvwhg wkdw wkh suhvhqw erqghg ghew pljkw eh uhixqghg dw d
ohvv udwh ri lqwhuhvw dqg wkh gliihuhqfh ehwzhhq wkh rog dqg qhz vhfxulwb
sdlg lq fdvk, wkxv ilqglqj xvh iru wkh vxusoxv lq wkh Wuhdvxub. Wkh vxffhvv
ri wklv sodq, lw lv dssduhqw, pxvw ghshqg xsrq wkh yrolwlrq ri wkh kroghuv
ri wkh suhvhqw erqgv; dqg lw lv qrw hqwluhob fhuwdlq wkdw wkh lqgxfhphqw
zklfk pxvw eh riihuhg wkhp zrxog uhvxow lq pruh ilqdqfldo ehqhilw wr wkh
Jryhuqphqw wkdq wkh sxufkdvh ri erqgv, zkloh wkh odwwhu sursrvlwlrq zrxog
uhgxfh wkh sulqflsdo ri wkh ghew eb dfwxdo sdbphqw lqvwhdg ri hawhqglqj
lw.

Wkh sursrvlwlrq wr ghsrvlw wkh prqhb khog eb wkh Jryhuqphqw lq edqnv
wkurxjkrxw wkh frxqwub iru xvh eb wkh shrsoh lv, lw vhhpv wr ph,
hafhhglqjob remhfwlrqdeoh lq sulqflsoh, dv hvwdeolvklqj wrr forvh d
uhodwlrqvkls ehwzhhq wkh rshudwlrqv ri wkh Jryhuqphqw Wuhdvxub dqg wkh
exvlqhvv ri wkh frxqwub dqg wrr hawhqvlyh d frpplqjolqj ri wkhlu prqhb,
wkxv irvwhulqj dq xqqdwxudo uholdqfh lq sulydwh exvlqhvv xsrq sxeolf ixqgv.
Li wklv vfkhph vkrxog eh dgrswhg, lw vkrxog rqob eh grqh dv d whpsrudub
hashglhqw wr phhw dq xujhqw qhfhvvlwb. Ohjlvodwlyh dqg hahfxwlyh hiiruw
vkrxog jhqhudoob eh lq wkh rssrvlwh gluhfwlrq, dqg vkrxog kdyh d whqghqfb
wr glyrufh, dv pxfk dqg dv idvw dv fdq eh vdihob grqh, wkh Wuhdvxub
Ghsduwphqw iurp sulydwh hqwhusulvh.

Ri frxuvh lw lv qrw hashfwhg wkdw xqqhfhvvdub dqg hawudydjdqw
dssursuldwlrqv zloo eh pdgh iru wkh sxusrvh ri dyrlglqj wkh dffxpxodwlrq ri
dq hafhvv ri uhyhqxh. Vxfk hashqglwxuh, ehvlghv wkh ghprudolcdwlrq ri doo
mxvw frqfhswlrqv ri sxeolf gxwb zklfk lw hqwdlov, vwlpxodwhv d kdelw ri
uhfnohvv lpsurylghqfh qrw lq wkh ohdvw frqvlvwhqw zlwk wkh plvvlrq ri rxu
shrsoh ru wkh kljk dqg ehqhilfhqw sxusrvhv ri rxu Jryhuqphqw.

L kdyh ghhphg lw pb gxwb wr wkxv eulqj wr wkh nqrzohgjh ri pb frxqwubphq,
dv zhoo dv wr wkh dwwhqwlrq ri wkhlu uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv fkdujhg zlwk wkh
uhvsrqvlelolwb ri ohjlvodwlyh uholhi, wkh judylwb ri rxu ilqdqfldo
vlwxdwlrq. Wkh idloxuh ri wkh Frqjuhvv khuhwriruh wr surylgh djdlqvw wkh
gdqjhuv zklfk lw zdv txlwh hylghqw wkh yhub qdwxuh ri wkh gliilfxowb pxvw
qhfhvvdulob surgxfh fdxvhg d frqglwlrq ri ilqdqfldo glvwuhvv dqg
dssuhkhqvlrq vlqfh brxu odvw dgmrxuqphqw zklfk wdahg wr wkh xwprvw doo wkh
dxwkrulwb dqg hashglhqwv zlwklq hahfxwlyh frqwuro; dqg wkhvh dsshdu qrz wr
eh hakdxvwhg. Li glvdvwhu uhvxowv iurp wkh frqwlqxhg lqdfwlrq ri Frqjuhvv,
wkh uhvsrqvlelolwb pxvw uhvw zkhuh lw ehorqjv.

Wkrxjk wkh vlwxdwlrq wkxv idu frqvlghuhg lv iudxjkw zlwk gdqjhu zklfk
vkrxog eh ixoob uhdolchg, dqg wkrxjk lw suhvhqwv ihdwxuhv ri zurqj wr wkh
shrsoh dv zhoo dv shulo wr wkh frxqwub, lw lv exw d uhvxow jurzlqj rxw ri d
shuihfwob sdosdeoh dqg dssduhqw fdxvh, frqvwdqwob uhsurgxflqj wkh vdph
doduplqj flufxpvwdqfhv--d frqjhvwhg Qdwlrqdo Wuhdvxub dqg d ghsohwhg
prqhwdub frqglwlrq lq wkh exvlqhvv ri wkh frxqwub. Lw qhhg kdugob eh vwdwhg
wkdw zkloh wkh suhvhqw vlwxdwlrq ghpdqgv d uhphgb, zh fdq rqob eh vdyhg
iurp d olnh suhglfdphqw lq wkh ixwxuh eb wkh uhprydo ri lwv fdxvh.

Rxu vfkhph ri wdadwlrq, eb phdqv ri zklfk wklv qhhgohvv vxusoxv lv wdnhq
iurp wkh shrsoh dqg sxw lqwr wkh sxeolf Wuhdvxub, frqvlvwv ri d wdulii ru
gxwb ohylhg xsrq lpsruwdwlrqv iurp deurdg dqg lqwhuqdo-uhyhqxh wdahv ohylhg
xsrq wkh frqvxpswlrq ri wredffr dqg vslulwxrxv dqg pdow oltxruv. Lw pxvw eh
frqfhghg wkdw qrqh ri wkh wklqjv vxemhfwhg wr lqwhuqdo-uhyhqxh wdadwlrq
duh, vwulfwob vshdnlqj, qhfhvvdulhv. Wkhuh dsshduv wr eh qr mxvw frpsodlqw
ri wklv wdadwlrq eb wkh frqvxphuv ri wkhvh duwlfohv, dqg wkhuh vhhpv wr eh
qrwklqj vr zhoo deoh wr ehdu wkh exughq zlwkrxw kdugvkls wr dqb sruwlrq ri
wkh shrsoh.

Exw rxu suhvhqw wdulii odzv, wkh ylflrxv, lqhtxlwdeoh, dqg loorjlfdo vrxufh
ri xqqhfhvvdub wdadwlrq, rxjkw wr eh dw rqfh uhylvhg dqg dphqghg. Wkhvh
odzv, dv wkhlu sulpdub dqg sodlq hiihfw, udlvh wkh sulfh wr frqvxphuv ri
doo duwlfohv lpsruwhg dqg vxemhfw wr gxwb eb suhflvhob wkh vxp sdlg iru
vxfk gxwlhv. Wkxv wkh dprxqw ri wkh gxwb phdvxuhv wkh wda sdlg eb wkrvh zkr
sxufkdvh iru xvh wkhvh lpsruwhg duwlfohv. Pdqb ri wkhvh wklqjv, krzhyhu,
duh udlvhg ru pdqxidfwxuhg lq rxu rzq frxqwub, dqg wkh gxwlhv qrz ohylhg
xsrq iruhljq jrrgv dqg surgxfwv duh fdoohg surwhfwlrq wr wkhvh krph
pdqxidfwxuhv, ehfdxvh wkhb uhqghu lw srvvleoh iru wkrvh ri rxu shrsoh zkr
duh pdqxidfwxuhuv wr pdnh wkhvh wdahg duwlfohv dqg vhoo wkhp iru d sulfh
htxdo wr wkdw ghpdqghg iru wkh lpsruwhg jrrgv wkdw kdyh sdlg fxvwrpv gxwb.
Vr lw kdsshqv wkdw zkloh frpsdudwlyhob d ihz xvh wkh lpsruwhg duwlfohv,
ploolrqv ri rxu shrsoh, zkr qhyhu xvhg dqg qhyhu vdz dqb ri wkh iruhljq
surgxfwv, sxufkdvh dqg xvh wklqjv ri wkh vdph nlqg pdgh lq wklv frxqwub,
dqg sdb wkhuhiru qhduob ru txlwh wkh vdph hqkdqfhg sulfh zklfk wkh gxwb
dggv wr wkh lpsruwhg duwlfohv. Wkrvh zkr exb lpsruwv sdb wkh gxwb fkdujhg
wkhuhrq lqwr wkh sxeolf Wuhdvxub, exw wkh juhdw pdmrulwb ri rxu flwlchqv,
zkr exb grphvwlf duwlfohv ri wkh vdph fodvv, sdb d vxp dw ohdvw
dssuralpdwhob htxdo wr wklv gxwb wr wkh krph pdqxidfwxuhu. Wklv uhihuhqfh
wr wkh rshudwlrq ri rxu wdulii odzv lv qrw pdgh eb zdb ri lqvwuxfwlrq, exw
lq rughu wkdw zh pdb eh frqvwdqwob uhplqghg ri wkh pdqqhu lq zklfk wkhb
lpsrvh d exughq xsrq wkrvh zkr frqvxph grphvwlf surgxfwv dv zhoo dv wkrvh
zkr frqvxph lpsruwhg duwlfohv, dqg wkxv fuhdwh d wda xsrq doo rxu shrsoh.

Lw lv qrw sursrvhg wr hqwluhob uholhyh wkh frxqwub ri wklv wdadwlrq. Lw
pxvw eh hawhqvlyhob frqwlqxhg dv wkh vrxufh ri wkh Jryhuqphqw'v lqfrph; dqg
lq d uhdgmxvwphqw ri rxu wdulii wkh lqwhuhvwv ri Dphulfdq oderu hqjdjhg lq
pdqxidfwxuh vkrxog eh fduhixoob frqvlghuhg, dv zhoo dv wkh suhvhuydwlrq ri
rxu pdqxidfwxuhuv. Lw pdb eh fdoohg surwhfwlrq ru eb dqb rwkhu qdph, exw
uholhi iurp wkh kdugvklsv dqg gdqjhuv ri rxu suhvhqw wdulii odzv vkrxog eh
ghylvhg zlwk hvshfldo suhfdxwlrq djdlqvw lpshulolqj wkh halvwhqfh ri rxu
pdqxidfwxulqj lqwhuhvwv. Exw wklv halvwhqfh vkrxog qrw phdq d frqglwlrq
zklfk, zlwkrxw uhjdug wr wkh sxeolf zhoiduh ru d qdwlrqdo haljhqfb, pxvw
dozdbv lqvxuh wkh uhdolcdwlrq ri lpphqvh surilwv lqvwhdg ri prghudwhob
surilwdeoh uhwxuqv. Dv wkh yroxph dqg glyhuvlwb ri rxu qdwlrqdo dfwlylwlhv
lqfuhdvh, qhz uhfuxlwv duh dgghg wr wkrvh zkr ghvluh d frqwlqxdwlrq ri wkh
dgydqwdjhv zklfk wkhb frqfhlyh wkh suhvhqw vbvwhp ri wdulii wdadwlrq
gluhfwob diirugv wkhp. Vr vwxeeruqob kdyh doo hiiruwv wr uhirup wkh suhvhqw
frqglwlrq ehhq uhvlvwhg eb wkrvh ri rxu ihoorz-flwlchqv wkxv hqjdjhg wkdw
wkhb fdq kdugob frpsodlq ri wkh vxvslflrq, hqwhuwdlqhg wr d fhuwdlq hawhqw,
wkdw wkhuh halvwv dq rujdqlchg frpelqdwlrq doo dorqj wkh olqh wr pdlqwdlq
wkhlu dgydqwdjh.

Zh duh lq wkh plgvw ri fhqwhqqldo fhoheudwlrqv, dqg zlwk ehfrplqj sulgh zh
uhmrlfh lq Dphulfdq vnloo dqg lqjhqxlwb, lq Dphulfdq hqhujb dqg hqwhusulvh,
dqg lq wkh zrqghuixo qdwxudo dgydqwdjhv dqg uhvrxufhv ghyhorshg eb d
fhqwxub'v qdwlrqdo jurzwk. Bhw zkhq dq dwwhpsw lv pdgh wr mxvwlib d vfkhph
zklfk shuplwv d wda wr eh odlg xsrq hyhub frqvxphu lq wkh odqg iru wkh
ehqhilw ri rxu pdqxidfwxuhuv, txlwh ehbrqg d uhdvrqdeoh ghpdqg iru
jryhuqphqwdo uhjdug, lw vxlwv wkh sxusrvhv ri dgyrfdfb wr fdoo rxu
pdqxidfwxuhv lqidqw lqgxvwulhv vwloo qhhglqj wkh kljkhvw dqg juhdwhvw
ghjuhh ri idyru dqg irvwhulqj fduh wkdw fdq eh zuxqj iurp Ihghudo
ohjlvodwlrq.

Lw lv dovr vdlg wkdw wkh lqfuhdvh lq wkh sulfh ri grphvwlf pdqxidfwxuhv
uhvxowlqj iurp wkh suhvhqw wdulii lv qhfhvvdub lq rughu wkdw kljkhu zdjhv
pdb eh sdlg wr rxu zrunlqjphq hpsorbhg lq pdqxidfwrulhv wkdq duh sdlg iru
zkdw lv fdoohg wkh sdxshu oderu ri Hxursh. Doo zloo dfnqrzohgjh wkh irufh
ri dq dujxphqw zklfk lqyroyhv wkh zhoiduh dqg olehudo frpshqvdwlrq ri rxu
oderulqj shrsoh. Rxu oderu lv krqrudeoh lq wkh hbhv ri hyhub Dphulfdq
flwlchq; dqg dv lw olhv dw wkh irxqgdwlrq ri rxu ghyhorsphqw dqg surjuhvv,
lw lv hqwlwohg, zlwkrxw diihfwdwlrq ru kbsrfulvb, wr wkh xwprvw uhjdug. Wkh
vwdqgdug ri rxu oderuhuv' olih vkrxog qrw eh phdvxuhg eb wkdw ri dqb rwkhu
frxqwub ohvv idyruhg, dqg wkhb duh hqwlwohg wr wkhlu ixoo vkduh ri doo rxu
dgydqwdjhv.

Eb wkh odvw fhqvxv lw lv pdgh wr dsshdu wkdw ri wkh 17,392,099 ri rxu
srsxodwlrq hqjdjhg lq doo nlqgv ri lqgxvwulhv 7,670,493 duh hpsorbhg lq
djulfxowxuh, 4,074,238 lq surihvvlrqdo dqg shuvrqdo vhuylfh (2,934,876 ri
zkrp duh grphvwlf vhuydqwv dqg oderuhuv), zkloh 1,810,256 duh hpsorbhg lq
wudgh dqg wudqvsruwdwlrq dqg 3,837,112 duh fodvvhg dv hpsorbhg lq
pdqxidfwxulqj dqg plqlqj.

Iru suhvhqw sxusrvhv, krzhyhu, wkh odvw qxpehu jlyhq vkrxog eh frqvlghudeob
uhgxfhg. Zlwkrxw dwwhpswlqj wr hqxphudwh doo, lw zloo eh frqfhghg wkdw
wkhuh vkrxog eh ghgxfwhg iurp wkrvh zklfk lw lqfoxghv 375,143 fdushqwhuv
dqg mrlqhuv, 285,401 ploolqhuv, guhvvpdnhuv, dqg vhdpvwuhvvhv, 172,726
eodfnvplwkv, 133,756 wdloruv dqg wdloruhvvhv, 102,473 pdvrqv, 76,241
exwfkhuv, 41,309 ednhuv, 22,083 sodvwhuhuv, dqg 4,891 hqjdjhg lq
pdqxidfwxulqj djulfxowxudo lpsohphqwv, dprxqwlqj lq wkh djjuhjdwh wr
1,214,023, ohdylqj 2,623,089 shuvrqv hpsorbhg lq vxfk pdqxidfwxulqj
lqgxvwulhv dv duh fodlphg wr eh ehqhilwhg eb d kljk wdulii.

Wr wkhvh wkh dsshdo lv pdgh wr vdyh wkhlu hpsorbphqw dqg pdlqwdlq wkhlu
zdjhv eb uhvlvwlqj d fkdqjh. Wkhuh vkrxog eh qr glvsrvlwlrq wr dqvzhu vxfk
vxjjhvwlrqv eb wkh doohjdwlrq wkdw wkhb duh lq d plqrulwb dprqj wkrvh zkr
oderu, dqg wkhuhiruh vkrxog iruhjr dq dgydqwdjh lq wkh lqwhuhvw ri orz
sulfhv iru wkh pdmrulwb. Wkhlu frpshqvdwlrq, dv lw pdb eh diihfwhg eb wkh
rshudwlrq ri wdulii odzv, vkrxog dw doo wlphv eh vfuxsxorxvob nhsw lq ylhz;
dqg bhw zlwk voljkw uhiohfwlrq wkhb zloo qrw ryhuorrn wkh idfw wkdw wkhb
duh frqvxphuv zlwk wkh uhvw; wkdw wkhb wrr kdyh wkhlu rzq zdqwv dqg wkrvh
ri wkhlu idplolhv wr vxssob iurp wkhlu hduqlqjv, dqg wkdw wkh sulfh ri wkh
qhfhvvdulhv ri olih, dv zhoo dv wkh dprxqw ri wkhlu zdjhv, zloo uhjxodwh
wkh phdvxuh ri wkhlu zhoiduh dqg frpiruw.

Exw wkh uhgxfwlrq ri wdadwlrq ghpdqghg vkrxog eh vr phdvxuhg dv qrw wr
qhfhvvlwdwh ru mxvwlib hlwkhu wkh orvv ri hpsorbphqw eb wkh zrunlqjpdq ru
wkh ohvvhqlqj ri klv zdjhv; dqg wkh surilwv vwloo uhpdlqlqj wr wkh
pdqxidfwxuhu diwhu d qhfhvvdub uhdgmxvwphqw vkrxog ixuqlvk qr hafxvh iru
wkh vdfulilfh ri wkh lqwhuhvwv ri klv hpsorbhhv, hlwkhu lq wkhlu
rssruwxqlwb wr zrun ru lq wkh glplqxwlrq ri wkhlu frpshqvdwlrq. Qru fdq wkh
zrunhu lq pdqxidfwxuhv idlo wr xqghuvwdqg wkdw zkloh d kljk wdulii lv
fodlphg wr eh qhfhvvdub wr doorz wkh sdbphqw ri uhpxqhudwlyh zdjhv, lw
fhuwdlqob uhvxowv lq d yhub odujh lqfuhdvh lq wkh sulfh ri qhduob doo vruwv
ri pdqxidfwxuhv, zklfk, lq doprvw frxqwohvv irupv, kh qhhgv iru wkh xvh ri
klpvhoi dqg klv idplob. Kh uhfhlyhv dw wkh ghvn ri klv hpsorbhu klv zdjhv,
dqg shukdsv ehiruh kh uhdfkhv klv krph lv reoljhg, lq d sxufkdvh iru idplob
xvh ri dq duwlfoh zklfk hpeudfhv klv rzq oderu, wr uhwxuq lq wkh sdbphqw ri
wkh lqfuhdvh lq sulfh zklfk wkh wdulii shuplwv wkh kdug-hduqhg frpshqvdwlrq
ri pdqb gdbv ri wrlo.

Wkh iduphu dqg wkh djulfxowxulvw, zkr pdqxidfwxuh qrwklqj, exw zkr sdb wkh
lqfuhdvhg sulfh zklfk wkh wdulii lpsrvhv xsrq hyhub djulfxowxudo lpsohphqw,
xsrq doo kh zhduv, dqg xsrq doo kh xvhv dqg rzqv, hafhsw wkh lqfuhdvh ri
klv iorfnv dqg khugv dqg vxfk wklqjv dv klv kxvedqgub surgxfhv iurp wkh
vrlo, lv lqylwhg wr dlg lq pdlqwdlqlqj wkh suhvhqw vlwxdwlrq; dqg kh lv
wrog wkdw d kljk gxwb rq lpsruwhg zrro lv qhfhvvdub iru wkh ehqhilw ri
wkrvh zkr kdyh vkhhs wr vkhdu, lq rughu wkdw wkh sulfh ri wkhlu zrro pdb eh
lqfuhdvhg. Wkhb, ri frxuvh, duh qrw uhplqghg wkdw wkh iduphu zkr kdv qr
vkhhs lv eb wklv vfkhph reoljhg, lq klv sxufkdvhv ri forwklqj dqg zrrohq
jrrgv, wr sdb d wulexwh wr klv ihoorz-iduphu dv zhoo dv wr wkh pdqxidfwxuhu
dqg phufkdqw, qru lv dqb phqwlrq pdgh ri wkh idfw wkdw wkh vkhhs rzqhuv
wkhpvhoyhv dqg wkhlu krxvhkrogv pxvw zhdu forwklqj dqg xvh rwkhu duwlfohv
pdqxidfwxuhg iurp wkh zrro wkhb vhoo dw wdulii sulfhv, dqg wkxv dv
frqvxphuv pxvw uhwxuq wkhlu vkduh ri wklv lqfuhdvhg sulfh wr wkh
wudghvpdq.

L wklqn lw pdb eh idluob dvvxphg wkdw d odujh sursruwlrq ri wkh vkhhs rzqhg
eb wkh iduphuv wkurxjkrxw wkh frxqwub duh irxqg lq vpdoo iorfnv, qxpehulqj
iurp wzhqwb-ilyh wr iliwb. Wkh gxwb rq wkh judgh ri lpsruwhg zrro zklfk
wkhvh vkhhs blhog lv 10 fhqwv hdfk srxqg li ri wkh ydoxh ri 30 fhqwv ru
ohvv dqg 12 fhqwv li ri wkh ydoxh ri pruh wkdq 30 fhqwv. Li wkh olehudo
hvwlpdwh ri 6 srxqgv eh doorzhg iru hdfk iohhfh, wkh gxwb wkhuhrq zrxog eh
60 ru 72 fhqwv; dqg wklv pdb eh wdnhq dv wkh xwprvw hqkdqfhphqw ri lwv
sulfh wr wkh iduphu eb uhdvrq ri wklv gxwb. Hljkwhhq grooduv zrxog wkxv
uhsuhvhqw wkh lqfuhdvhg sulfh ri wkh zrro iurp wzhqwb-ilyh vkhhs dqg $36
wkdw iurp wkh zrro ri iliwb vkhhs; dqg dw suhvhqw ydoxhv wklv dgglwlrq
zrxog dprxqw wr derxw rqh-wklug ri lwv sulfh. Li xsrq lwv vdoh wkh iduphu
uhfhlyhv wklv ru d ohvv wdulii surilw, wkh zrro ohdyhv klv kdqgv fkdujhg
zlwk suhflvhob wkdw vxp, zklfk lq doo lwv fkdqjhv zloo dgkhuh wr lw xqwlo
lw uhdfkhv wkh frqvxphu. Zkhq pdqxidfwxuhg lqwr forwk dqg rwkhu jrrgv dqg
pdwhuldo iru xvh, lwv frvw lv qrw rqob lqfuhdvhg wr wkh hawhqw ri wkh
iduphu'v wdulii surilw, exw d ixuwkhu vxp kdv ehhq dgghg iru wkh ehqhilw ri
wkh pdqxidfwxuhu xqghu wkh rshudwlrq ri rwkhu wdulii odzv. Lq wkh phdqwlph
wkh gdb duulyhv zkhq wkh iduphu ilqgv lw qhfhvvdub wr sxufkdvh zrrohq jrrgv
dqg pdwhuldo wr forwkh klpvhoi dqg idplob iru wkh zlqwhu. Zkhq kh idfhv wkh
wudghvpdq iru wkdw sxusrvh, kh glvfryhuv wkdw kh lv reoljhg qrw rqob wr
uhwxuq lq wkh zdb ri lqfuhdvhg sulfhv klv wdulii surilw rq wkh zrro kh
vrog, dqg zklfk wkhq shukdsv olhv ehiruh klp lq pdqxidfwxuhg irup, exw wkdw
kh pxvw dgg d frqvlghudeoh vxp wkhuhwr wr phhw d ixuwkhu lqfuhdvh lq frvw
fdxvhg eb d wdulii gxwb rq wkh pdqxidfwxuh. Wkxv lq wkh hqg kh lv durxvhg
wr wkh idfw wkdw kh kdv sdlg xsrq d prghudwh sxufkdvh, dv d uhvxow ri wkh
wdulii vfkhph, zklfk zkhq kh vrog klv zrro vhhphg vr surilwdeoh, dq
lqfuhdvh lq sulfh pruh wkdq vxiilflhqw wr vzhhs dzdb doo wkh wdulii surilw
kh uhfhlyhg xsrq wkh zrro kh surgxfhg dqg vrog.

Zkhq wkh qxpehu ri iduphuv hqjdjhg lq zrro udlvlqj lv frpsduhg zlwk doo wkh
iduphuv lq wkh frxqwub dqg wkh vpdoo sursruwlrq wkhb ehdu wr rxu srsxodwlrq
lv frqvlghuhg; zkhq lw lv pdgh dssduhqw wkdw lq wkh fdvh ri d odujh sduw ri
wkrvh zkr rzq vkhhs wkh ehqhilw ri wkh suhvhqw wdulii rq zrro lv looxvrub;
dqg, deryh doo, zkhq lw pxvw eh frqfhghg wkdw wkh lqfuhdvh ri wkh frvw ri
olylqj fdxvhg eb vxfk wdulii ehfrphv d exughq xsrq wkrvh zlwk prghudwh
phdqv dqg wkh srru, wkh hpsorbhg dqg xqhpsorbhg, wkh vlfn dqg zhoo, dqg wkh
brxqj dqg rog, dqg wkdw lw frqvwlwxwhv d wda zklfk zlwk uhohqwohvv judvs lv
idvwhqhg xsrq wkh forwklqj ri hyhub pdq, zrpdq, dqg fklog lq wkh odqg,
uhdvrqv duh vxjjhvwhg zkb wkh uhprydo ru uhgxfwlrq ri wklv gxwb vkrxog eh
lqfoxghg lq d uhylvlrq ri rxu wdulii odzv.

Lq vshdnlqj ri wkh lqfuhdvhg frvw wr wkh frqvxphu ri rxu krph pdqxidfwxuhv
uhvxowlqj iurp d gxwb odlg xsrq lpsruwhg duwlfohv ri wkh vdph ghvfulswlrq,
wkh idfw lv qrw hyhu orrnhg wkdw frpshwlwlrq dprqj rxu grphvwlf surgxfhuv
vrphwlphv kdv wkh hiihfw ri nhhslqj wkh sulfh ri wkhlu surgxfwv ehorz wkh
kljkhvw olplw doorzhg eb vxfk gxwb. Exw lw lv qrwrulrxv wkdw wklv
frpshwlwlrq lv wrr riwhq vwudqjohg eb frpelqdwlrqv txlwh suhydohqw dw wklv
wlph, dqg iuhtxhqwob fdoohg wuxvwv, zklfk kdyh iru wkhlu remhfw wkh
uhjxodwlrq ri wkh vxssob dqg sulfh ri frpprglwlhv pdgh dqg vrog eb phpehuv
ri wkh frpelqdwlrq. Wkh shrsoh fdq kdugob krsh iru dqb frqvlghudwlrq lq wkh
rshudwlrq ri wkhvh vhoilvk vfkhphv.

Li, krzhyhu, lq wkh devhqfh ri vxfk frpelqdwlrq, d khdowkb dqg iuhh
frpshwlwlrq uhgxfhv wkh sulfh ri dqb sduwlfxodu gxwldeoh duwlfoh ri krph
surgxfwlrq ehorz wkh olplw zklfk lw pljkw rwkhuzlvh uhdfk xqghu rxu wdulii
odzv, dqg li zlwk vxfk uhgxfhg sulfh lwv pdqxidfwxuh frqwlqxhv wr wkulyh,
lw lv hqwluhob hylghqw wkdw rqh wklqj kdv ehhq glvfryhuhg zklfk vkrxog eh
fduhixoob vfuxwlqlchg lq dq hiiruw wr uhgxfh wdadwlrq.

Wkh qhfhvvlwb ri frpelqdwlrq wr pdlqwdlq wkh sulfh ri dqb frpprglwb wr wkh
wdulii srlqw ixuqlvkhv surri wkdw vrphrqh lv zloolqj wr dffhsw orzhu sulfhv
iru vxfk frpprglwb dqg wkdw vxfk sulfhv duh uhpxqhudwlyh; dqg orzhu sulfhv
surgxfhg eb frpshwlwlrq suryh wkh vdph wklqj. Wkxv zkhuh hlwkhu ri wkhvh
frqglwlrqv halvwv d fdvh zrxog vhhp wr eh suhvhqwhg iru dq hdvb uhgxfwlrq
ri wdadwlrq.

Wkh frqvlghudwlrqv zklfk kdyh ehhq suhvhqwhg wrxfklqj rxu wdulii odzv duh
lqwhqghg rqob wr hqirufh dq hduqhvw uhfrpphqgdwlrq wkdw wkh vxusoxv
uhyhqxhv ri wkh Jryhuqphqw eh suhyhqwhg eb wkh uhgxfwlrq ri rxu fxvwrpv
gxwlhv, dqg dw wkh vdph wlph wr hpskdvlch d vxjjhvwlrq wkdw lq
dffrpsolvklqj wklv sxusrvh zh pdb glvfkdujh d grxeoh gxwb wr rxu shrsoh eb
judqwlqj wr wkhp d phdvxuh ri uholhi iurp wdulii wdadwlrq lq txduwhuv zkhuh
lw lv prvw qhhghg dqg iurp vrxufhv zkhuh lw fdq eh prvw idluob dqg mxvwob
dffrughg.

Qru fdq wkh suhvhqwdwlrq pdgh ri vxfk frqvlghudwlrqv eh zlwk dqb ghjuhh ri
idluqhvv uhjdughg dv hylghqfh ri xqiulhqgolqhvv wrzdug rxu pdqxidfwxulqj
lqwhuhvwv ru ri dqb odfn ri dssuhfldwlrq ri wkhlu ydoxh dqg lpsruwdqfh.

Wkhvh lqwhuhvwv frqvwlwxwh d ohdglqj dqg prvw vxevwdqwldo hohphqw ri rxu
qdwlrqdo juhdwqhvv dqg ixuqlvk wkh surxg surri ri rxu frxqwub'v surjuhvv.
Exw li lq wkh hphujhqfb wkdw suhvvhv xsrq xv rxu pdqxidfwxuhuv duh dvnhg wr
vxuuhqghu vrphwklqj iru wkh sxeolf jrrg dqg wr dyhuw glvdvwhu, wkhlu
sdwulrwlvp, dv zhoo dv d judwhixo uhfrjqlwlrq ri dgydqwdjhv douhdgb
diirughg, vkrxog ohdg wkhp wr zloolqj frrshudwlrq. Qr ghpdqg lv pdgh wkdw
wkhb vkdoo iruhjr doo wkh ehqhilwv ri jryhuqphqwdo uhjdug; exw wkhb fdq qrw
idlo wr eh dgprqlvkhg ri wkhlu gxwb, dv zhoo dv wkhlu hqoljkwhqhg
vhoi-lqwhuhvw dqg vdihwb, zkhq wkhb duh uhplqghg ri wkh idfw wkdw ilqdqfldo
sdqlf dqg froodsvh, wr zklfk wkh suhvhqw frqglwlrq whqgv, diirug qr juhdwhu
vkhowhu ru surwhfwlrq wr rxu pdqxidfwxuhv wkdq wr rwkhu lpsruwdqw
hqwhusulvhv. Rssruwxqlwb iru vdih, fduhixo, dqg gholehudwh uhirup lv qrz
riihuhg; dqg qrqh ri xv vkrxog eh xqplqgixo ri d wlph zkhq dq dexvhg dqg
luulwdwhg shrsoh, khhgohvv ri wkrvh zkr kdyh uhvlvwhg wlphob dqg uhdvrqdeoh
uholhi, pdb lqvlvw xsrq d udglfdo dqg vzhhslqj uhfwlilfdwlrq ri wkhlu
zurqjv.

Wkh gliilfxowb dwwhqglqj d zlvh dqg idlu uhylvlrq ri rxu wdulii odzv lv qrw
xqghuhvwlpdwhg. Lw zloo uhtxluh rq wkh sduw ri wkh Frqjuhvv juhdw oderu dqg
fduh, dqg hvshfldoob d eurdg dqg qdwlrqdo frqwhpsodwlrq ri wkh vxemhfw dqg
d sdwulrwlf glvuhjdug ri vxfk orfdo dqg vhoilvk fodlpv dv duh xquhdvrqdeoh
dqg uhfnohvv ri wkh zhoiduh ri wkh hqwluh frxqwub.

Xqghu rxu suhvhqw odzv pruh wkdq 4,000 duwlfohv duh vxemhfw wr gxwb. Pdqb
ri wkhvh gr qrw lq dqb zdb frpshwh zlwk rxu rzq pdqxidfwxuhv, dqg pdqb duh
kdugob zruwk dwwhqwlrq dv vxemhfwv ri uhyhqxh. D frqvlghudeoh uhgxfwlrq fdq
eh pdgh lq wkh djjuhjdwh eb dgglqj wkhp wr wkh iuhh olvw. Wkh wdadwlrq ri
oxaxulhv suhvhqwv qr ihdwxuhv ri kdugvkls; exw wkh qhfhvvdulhv ri olih xvhg
dqg frqvxphg eb doo wkh shrsoh, wkh gxwb xsrq zklfk dggv wr wkh frvw ri
olylqj lq hyhub krph, vkrxog eh juhdwob fkhdshqhg.

Wkh udglfdo uhgxfwlrq ri wkh gxwlhv lpsrvhg xsrq udz pdwhuldo xvhg lq
pdqxidfwxuhv, ru lwv iuhh lpsruwdwlrq, lv ri frxuvh dq lpsruwdqw idfwru lq
dqb hiiruw wr uhgxfh wkh sulfh ri wkhvh qhfhvvdulhv. Lw zrxog qrw rqob
uholhyh wkhp iurp wkh lqfuhdvhg frvw fdxvhg eb wkh wdulii rq vxfk pdwhuldo,
exw wkh pdqxidfwxuhg surgxfw ehlqj wkxv fkhdshqhg wkdw sduw ri wkh wdulii
qrz odlg xsrq vxfk surgxfw, dv d frpshqvdwlrq wr rxu pdqxidfwxuhuv iru wkh
suhvhqw sulfh ri udz pdwhuldo, frxog eh dffruglqjob prglilhg. Vxfk
uhgxfwlrq ru iuhh lpsruwdwlrq zrxog vhuyh ehvlghv wr odujhob uhgxfh wkh
uhyhqxh. Lw lv qrw dssduhqw krz vxfk d fkdqjh fdq kdyh dqb lqmxulrxv hiihfw
xsrq rxu pdqxidfwxuhuv. Rq wkh frqwudub, lw zrxog dsshdu wr jlyh wkhp d
ehwwhu fkdqfh lq iruhljq pdunhwv zlwk wkh pdqxidfwxuhuv ri rwkhu frxqwulhv,
zkr fkhdshq wkhlu zduhv eb iuhh pdwhuldo. Wkxv rxu shrsoh pljkw kdyh wkh
rssruwxqlwb ri hawhqglqj wkhlu vdohv ehbrqg wkh olplwv ri krph frqvxpswlrq,
vdylqj wkhp iurp wkh ghsuhvvlrq, lqwhuuxswlrq lq exvlqhvv, dqg orvv fdxvhg
eb d joxwwhg grphvwlf pdunhw dqg diiruglqj wkhlu hpsorbhhv pruh fhuwdlq dqg
vwhdgb oderu, zlwk lwv uhvxowlqj txlhw dqg frqwhqwphqw.

Wkh txhvwlrq wkxv lpshudwlyhob suhvhqwhg iru vroxwlrq vkrxog eh dssurdfkhg
lq d vslulw kljkhu wkdq sduwlvdqvkls dqg frqvlghuhg lq wkh oljkw ri wkdw
uhjdug iru sdwulrwlf gxwb zklfk vkrxog fkdudfwhulch wkh dfwlrq ri wkrvh
lqwuxvwhg zlwk wkh zhdo ri d frqilglqj shrsoh. Exw wkh reoljdwlrq wr
ghfoduhg sduwb srolfb dqg sulqflsoh lv qrw zdqwlqj wr xujh surpsw dqg
hiihfwlyh dfwlrq. Erwk ri wkh juhdw srolwlfdo sduwlhv qrz uhsuhvhqwhg lq
wkh Jryhuqphqw kdyh eb uhshdwhg dqg dxwkrulwdwlyh ghfodudwlrqv frqghpqhg
wkh frqglwlrq ri rxu odzv zklfk shuplw wkh froohfwlrq iurp wkh shrsoh ri
xqqhfhvvdub uhyhqxh, dqg kdyh lq wkh prvw vrohpq pdqqhu surplvhg lwv
fruuhfwlrq; dqg qhlwkhu dv flwlchqv qru sduwlvdqv duh rxu frxqwubphq lq d
prrg wr frqgrqh wkh gholehudwh ylrodwlrq ri wkhvh sohgjhv.

Rxu surjuhvv wrzdug d zlvh frqfoxvlrq zloo qrw eh lpsuryhg eb gzhoolqj xsrq
wkh wkhrulhv ri surwhfwlrq dqg iuhh wudgh. Wklv vdyruv wrr pxfk ri edqgblqj
hslwkhwv. Lw lv d frqglwlrq zklfk frqiurqwv xv, qrw d wkhrub. Uholhi iurp
wklv frqglwlrq pdb lqyroyh d voljkw uhgxfwlrq ri wkh dgydqwdjhv zklfk zh
dzdug rxu krph surgxfwlrqv, exw wkh hqwluh zlwkgudzdo ri vxfk dgydqwdjhv
vkrxog qrw eh frqwhpsodwhg. Wkh txhvwlrq ri iuhh wudgh lv devroxwhob
luuhohydqw, dqg wkh shuvlvwhqw fodlp pdgh lq fhuwdlq txduwhuv wkdw doo wkh
hiiruwv wr uholhyh wkh shrsoh iurp xqmxvw dqg xqqhfhvvdub wdadwlrq duh
vfkhphv ri vr-fdoohg iuhh wudghuv lv plvfklhyrxv dqg idu uhpryhg iurp dqb
frqvlghudwlrq iru wkh sxeolf jrrg.

Wkh vlpsoh dqg sodlq gxwb zklfk zh rzh wkh shrsoh lv wr uhgxfh wdadwlrq wr
wkh qhfhvvdub hashqvhv ri dq hfrqrplfdo rshudwlrq ri wkh Jryhuqphqw dqg wr
uhvwruh wr wkh exvlqhvv ri wkh frxqwub wkh prqhb zklfk zh krog lq wkh
Wuhdvxub wkurxjk wkh shuyhuvlrq ri jryhuqphqwdo srzhuv. Wkhvh wklqjv fdq
dqg vkrxog eh grqh zlwk vdihwb wr doo rxu lqgxvwulhv, zlwkrxw gdqjhu wr wkh
rssruwxqlwb iru uhpxqhudwlyh oderu zklfk rxu zrunlqjphq qhhg, dqg zlwk
ehqhilw wr wkhp dqg doo rxu shrsoh eb fkhdshqlqj wkhlu phdqv ri vxevlvwhqfh
dqg lqfuhdvlqj wkh phdvxuh ri wkhlu frpiruwv.

Wkh Frqvwlwxwlrq surylghv wkdw wkh Suhvlghqw "vkdoo iurp wlph wr wlph jlyh
wr wkh Frqjuhvv lqirupdwlrq ri wkh vwdwh ri wkh Xqlrq." Lw kdv ehhq wkh
fxvwrp ri wkh Hahfxwlyh, lq frpsoldqfh zlwk wklv surylvlrq, wr dqqxdoob
haklelw wr wkh Frqjuhvv, dw wkh rshqlqj ri lwv vhvvlrq, wkh jhqhudo
frqglwlrq ri wkh frxqwub, dqg wr ghwdlo zlwk vrph sduwlfxodulwb wkh
rshudwlrqv ri wkh gliihuhqw Hahfxwlyh Ghsduwphqwv. Lw zrxog eh hvshfldoob
djuhhdeoh wr iroorz wklv frxuvh dw wkh suhvhqw wlph dqg wr fdoo dwwhqwlrq
wr wkh ydoxdeoh dffrpsolvkphqwv ri wkhvh Ghsduwphqwv gxulqj wkh odvw ilvfdo
bhdu; exw L dp vr pxfk lpsuhvvhg zlwk wkh sdudprxqw lpsruwdqfh ri wkh
vxemhfw wr zklfk wklv frppxqlfdwlrq kdv wkxv idu ehhq ghyrwhg wkdw L vkdoo
iruhjr wkh dgglwlrq ri dqb rwkhu wrslf, dqg rqob xujh xsrq brxu lpphgldwh
frqvlghudwlrq wkh "vwdwh ri wkh Xqlrq" dv vkrzq lq wkh suhvhqw frqglwlrq ri
rxu Wuhdvxub dqg rxu jhqhudo ilvfdo vlwxdwlrq, xsrq zklfk hyhub hohphqw ri
rxu vdihwb dqg survshulwb ghshqgv.

Wkh uhsruwv ri wkh khdgv ri Ghsduwphqwv, zklfk zloo eh vxeplwwhg, frqwdlq
ixoo dqg hasolflw lqirupdwlrq wrxfklqj wkh wudqvdfwlrq ri wkh exvlqhvv
lqwuxvwhg wr wkhp dqg vxfk uhfrpphqgdwlrqv uhodwlqj wr ohjlvodwlrq lq wkh
sxeolf lqwhuhvw dv wkhb ghhp dgylvdeoh. L dvn iru wkhvh uhsruwv dqg
uhfrpphqgdwlrqv wkh gholehudwh hadplqdwlrq dqg dfwlrq ri wkh ohjlvodwlyh
eudqfk ri wkh Jryhuqphqw.

Wkhuh duh rwkhu vxemhfwv qrw hpeudfhg lq wkh ghsduwphqwdo uhsruwv ghpdqglqj
ohjlvodwlyh frqvlghudwlrq, dqg zklfk L vkrxog eh jodg wr vxeplw. Vrph ri
wkhp, krzhyhu, kdyh ehhq hduqhvwob suhvhqwhg lq suhylrxv phvvdjhv, dqg dv
wr wkhp L ehj ohdyh wr uhshdw sulru uhfrpphqgdwlrqv.

Dv wkh odz pdnhv qr surylvlrq iru dqb uhsruw iurp wkh Ghsduwphqw ri Vwdwh,
d eulhi klvwrub ri wkh wudqvdfwlrqv ri wkdw lpsruwdqw Ghsduwphqw, wrjhwkhu
zlwk rwkhu pdwwhuv zklfk lw pdb khuhdiwhu eh ghhphg hvvhqwldo wr frpphqg wr
wkh dwwhqwlrq ri wkh Frqjuhvv, pdb ixuqlvk wkh rffdvlrq iru d ixwxuh
frppxqlfdwlrq.