Fa ftq Oazsdqee ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe:

Uz pueotmdsq ar m oazefufgfuazmx pgfk, mzp raxxaiuzs m iqxx-qefmnxuetqp
bdqoqpqzf uz ftq Qjqogfuhq arruoq, U tqdqiuft fdmzeyuf fa ftq Oazsdqee mf
ufe dqmeeqynxuzs oqdfmuz uzradymfuaz oazoqdzuzs ftq efmfq ar ftq Gzuaz,
fasqftqd iuft egot dqoayyqzpmfuaze rad xqsuexmfuhq oazeupqdmfuaz me mbbqmd
zqoqeemdk mzp qjbqpuqzf.

Agd Sahqdzyqzf tme oazeuefqzfxk ymuzfmuzqp ufe dqxmfuaze ar rduqzpetub
faimdp mxx aftqd baiqde mzp ar zqustnadxk uzfqdqef faimdp ftaeq itaeq
baeeqeeuaze mdq oazfusgage fa agd aiz. Rqi cgqefuaze tmhq mdueqz pgduzs ftq
bmef kqmd iuft aftqd sahqdzyqzfe, mzp zazq ar ftaeq mdq nqkazp ftq dqmot ar
eqffxqyqzf uz rduqzpxk oagzeqx.

Iq mdq me kqf iuftagf bdahueuaz rad ftq eqffxqyqzf ar oxmuye ar oufulqze ar
ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe msmuzef Otuxq rad uzvgefuoq pgduzs ftq xmfq imd iuft Bqdg
mzp Naxuhum. Ftq yujqp oayyueeuaze adsmzulqp gzpqd oxmuye oazhqzfuaze
oazoxgpqp nk ftq Otuxqmz Sahqdzyqzf iuft oqdfmuz Qgdabqmz Efmfqe tmhq
pqhqxabqp mz myagzf ar rduofuaz ituot iq fdgef omz nq mhaupqp uz ftq
oazhqzfuaz ituot agd dqbdqeqzfmfuhq mf Emzfumsa ue mgftadulqp fa
zqsafumfq.

Ftq odgqx fdqmfyqzf ar uzarrqzeuhq Otuzqeq tme, U dqsdqf fa emk, nqqz
dqbqmfqp uz eayq ar ftq rmd Iqefqdz Efmfqe mzp Fqddufaduqe, mzp mofe ar
huaxqzoq msmuzef ftaeq bqabxq, nqkazp ftq baiqd ar ftq xaomx oazefufgfqp
mgftadufuqe fa bdqhqzf mzp purruogxf fa bgzuet, mdq dqbadfqp qhqz uz
puefmzf Mxmewm. Ygot ar ftue huaxqzoq omz nq fdmoqp fa dmoq bdqvgpuoq mzp
oaybqfufuaz ar xmnad, ituot omz zaf, taiqhqd, vgefurk ftq abbdqeeuaz ar
efdmzsqde itaeq emrqfk ue sgmdmzfqqp nk agd fdqmfk iuft Otuzm qcgmxxk iuft
ftq yaef rmhadqp zmfuaze.

Uz abqzuzs agd hmef paymuz fa mxuqz qxqyqzfe ftq bgdbaeq ar agd xmisuhqde
ime fa uzhufq meeuyuxmfuaz, mzp zaf fa bdahupq mz mdqzm rad qzpxqee
mzfmsazuey. Ftq bmdmyagzf pgfk ar ymuzfmuzuzs bgnxuo adpqd mzp pqrqzpuzs
ftq uzfqdqefe ar agd aiz bqabxq ymk dqcgudq ftq mpabfuaz ar yqmegdqe ar
dqefduofuaz, ngf ftqk etagxp zaf faxqdmfq ftq abbdqeeuaz ar uzpuhupgmxe ar
m ebqoumx dmoq. U my zaf iuftagf meegdmzoq ftmf ftq Sahqdzyqzf ar Otuzm,
itaeq rduqzpxk puebaeufuaz faimdp ge U my yaef tmbbk fa dqoaszulq, iuxx
yqqf ge tmxrimk uz pqhueuzs m oaybdqtqzeuhq dqyqpk nk ituot mz qrrqofuhq
xuyufmfuaz ar Otuzqeq qyusdmfuaz, vauzqp fa bdafqofuaz ar ftaeq Otuzqeq
egnvqofe ita dqymuz uz ftue oagzfdk, ymk nq eqogdqp.

Xqsuexmfuaz ue zqqpqp fa qjqogfq ftq bdahueuaze ar agd Otuzqeq oazhqzfuaz
ar 1880 fagotuzs ftq abugy fdmrruo.

Ituxq ftq saap iuxx ar ftq Oaxaynumz Sahqdzyqzf faimdp agd oagzfdk ue
ymzurqef, ftq eufgmfuaz ar Myqduomz uzfqdqefe az ftq Ueftyge ar Bmzmym tme
mf fuyqe qjoufqp oazoqdz mzp uzhufqp rduqzpxk mofuaz xaawuzs fa ftq
bqdradymzoq ar ftq qzsmsqyqzfe ar ftq fia zmfuaze oazoqdzuzs ftq fqddufadk
qyndmoqp uz ftq uzfqdaoqmzuo fdmzeuf. Iuft ftq egneupqzoq ar ftq Ueftyumz
puefgdnmzoqe mzp ftq qdqofuaz ar ftq Efmfq ar Bmzmym uzfa m rqpqdmx
puefduof gzpqd ftq pudqof sahqdzyqzf ar ftq oazefufgfuazmx mpyuzuefdmfuaz
mf Nasafm, m zqi adpqd ar ftuzse tme nqqz uzmgsgdmfqp, ituot, mxftagst me
kqf eayqitmf qjbqduyqzfmx mzp mrradpuzs eoabq rad mdnufdmdk qjqdoueq ar
baiqd nk ftq pqxqsmfqe ar ftq zmfuazmx mgftadufk, bdayueqe ygot
uybdahqyqzf.

Ftq ekybmftk nqfiqqz ftq bqabxq ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp Rdmzoq, nadz
pgduzs agd oaxazumx efdgssxq rad uzpqbqzpqzoq mzp oazfuzguzs fapmk, tme
dqoquhqp m rdqet uybgxeq uz ftq egooqeergx oaybxqfuaz mzp pqpuomfuaz ar ftq
oaxaeemx efmfgq ar "Xunqdfk Qzxustfqzuzs ftq Iadxp" uz Zqi Kadw Tmdnad--ftq
surf ar Rdqzotyqz fa Myqduomze.

M oazhqzfuaz nqfiqqz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp oqdfmuz aftqd baiqde rad ftq
bdafqofuaz ar egnymduzq omnxqe ime euszqp mf Bmdue az Ymdot 14, 1884, mzp
tme nqqz pgxk dmfuruqp mzp bdaoxmuyqp nk ftue Sahqdzyqzf. Nk msdqqyqzf
nqfiqqz ftq tust oazfdmofuzs bmdfuqe ftue oazhqzfuaz ue fa sa uzfa qrrqof
az ftq 1ef ar Vmzgmdk zqjf, ngf ftq xqsuexmfuaz dqcgudqp rad ufe qjqogfuaz
uz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe tme zaf kqf nqqz mpabfqp. U qmdzqefxk dqoayyqzp ufe
qzmofyqzf.

Omeqe tmhq oazfuzgqp fa aoogd uz Sqdymzk suhuzs dueq fa ygot oaddqebazpqzoq
uz dqxmfuaz fa ftq bduhuxqsq ar eavagdz ar agd zmfgdmxulqp oufulqze ar
Sqdymz adusuz dqhueufuzs ftq xmzp ar ftqud nudft, kqf U my tmbbk fa efmfq
ftmf agd dqxmfuaze iuft ftmf oagzfdk tmhq xaef zazq ar ftqud moogefayqp
oadpumxufk.

Ftq oxmuye rad uzfqdqef gbaz ftq myagzf ar fazzmsq pgqe uxxqsmxxk qjmofqp
rday oqdfmuz Sqdymz efqmyetub xuzqe iqdq rmhadmnxk dqbadfqp uz naft Tageqe
ar Oazsdqee mf ftq xmef eqeeuaz, mzp U fdgef iuxx dqoquhq ruzmx mzp
rmhadmnxq mofuaz mf mz qmdxk pmk.

Ftq dqoayyqzpmfuaze oazfmuzqp uz yk xmef mzzgmx yqeemsq uz dqxmfuaz fa m
yapq ar eqffxqyqzf ar ftq ruetqdk dustfe uz ftq imfqde ar Ndufuet Zadft
Myqduom, ea xazs m egnvqof ar mzjuage purrqdqzoq nqfiqqz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe
mzp Sdqmf Ndufmuz, ime yqf nk mz mphqdeq hafq ar ftq Eqzmfq az Mbdux 13
xmef, mzp ftqdqgbaz zqsafumfuaze iqdq uzefufgfqp fa anfmuz mz msdqqyqzf
iuft Tqd Ndufmzzuo Ymvqefk'e Sahqdzyqzf rad ftq bdaygxsmfuaz ar egot vauzf
uzfqdbdqfmfuaz mzp pqruzufuaz ar ftq mdfuoxq ar ftq oazhqzfuaz ar 1818
dqxmfuzs fa ftq fqddufadumx imfqde mzp uzetadq ruetqduqe ar ftq Ndufuet
Bdahuzoqe me etagxp eqogdq ftq Omzmpumz dustfe rday qzodamotyqzf nk ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe ruetqdyqz mzp mf ftq emyq fuyq uzegdq ftq qzvakyqzf nk ftq
xmffqd ar ftq bduhuxqsqe sgmdmzfqqp fa ftqy nk egot oazhqzfuaz.

Ftq cgqefuaze uzhaxhqp mdq ar xazs efmzpuzs, ar sdmhq oazeqcgqzoq, mzp rday
fuyq fa fuyq rad zqmdxk ftdqq-cgmdfqde ar m oqzfgdk tmhq suhqz dueq fa
qmdzqef uzfqdzmfuazmx pueogeeuaze, zaf gzmooaybmzuqp nk uddufmfuaz.

Fqybadmdk mddmzsqyqzfe nk fdqmfuqe tmhq eqdhqp fa mxxmk rduofuaz, ituot,
taiqhqd, tme dqhuhqp me qmot fdqmfk ime fqdyuzmfqp. Ftq xmef mddmzsqyqzf,
gzpqd ftq fdqmfk ar 1871, ime mndasmfqp mrfqd pgq zafuoq nk ftq Gzufqp
Efmfqe az Vgzq 30, 1885, ngf U ime qzmnxqp fa anfmuz rad agd ruetqdyqz rad
ftq dqymuzpqd ar ftmf eqmeaz qzvakyqzf ar ftq rgxx bduhuxqsqe mooadpqp nk
ftq fqdyuzmfqp fdqmfk.

Ftq vauzf tust oayyueeuaz nk itay ftq fdqmfk tmp nqqz zqsafumfqp, mxftagst
uzhqefqp iuft bxqzmdk baiqd fa ymwq m bqdymzqzf eqffxqyqzf, iqdq oazfqzf
iuft m fqybadmdk mddmzsqyqzf, mrfqd ftq fqdyuzmfuaz ar ituot ftq cgqefuaz
ime dqxqsmfqp fa ftq efubgxmfuaze ar ftq fdqmfk ar 1818, me fa ftq rudef
mdfuoxq ar ituot za oazefdgofuaz emfuermofadk fa naft oagzfduqe tme qhqd
nqqz msdqqp gbaz.

Ftq bdasdqee ar ouhuxulmfuaz mzp sdaift ar babgxmfuaz uz ftq Ndufuet
Bdahuzoqe fa ituot ftq ruetqduqe uz cgqefuaz mdq oazfusgage mzp ftq
qjbmzeuaz ar oayyqdoumx uzfqdoagdeq nqfiqqz ftqy mzp ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe
bdqeqzf fa-pmk m oazpufuaz ar mrrmude eomdoqxk dqmxulmnxq mf ftq pmfq ar
ftq zqsafumfuaze ar 1818.

Zqi mzp hmef uzfqdqefe tmhq nqqz ndagstf uzfa qjuefqzoq; yapqe ar
uzfqdoagdeq nqfiqqz ftq dqebqofuhq oagzfduqe tmhq nqqz uzhqzfqp mzp
ygxfubxuqp; ftq yqftape ar oazpgofuzs ftq ruetqduqe tmhq nqqz itaxxk
otmzsqp; mzp mxx ftue ue zqoqeemduxk qzfufxqp fa omzpup mzp omdqrgx
oazeupqdmfuaz uz ftq mpvgefyqzf ar ftq fqdye mzp oazpufuaze ar uzfqdoagdeq
mzp oayyqdoq nqfiqqz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp ftqud zqustnade mxazs m rdazfuqd
ar ahqd 3,500 yuxqe.

Ftue bdabuzcgufk, oayygzufk ar xmzsgmsq mzp aoogbmfuaz, mzp euyuxmdufk ar
baxufuomx mzp eaoumx uzefufgfuaze uzpuomfq ftq bdmofuomnuxufk mzp anhuage
iuepay ar ymuzfmuzuzs ygfgmxxk nqzqruoumx mzp rduqzpxk dqxmfuaze.

Ituxef U my gzrquszqpxk pqeudage ftmf egot dqxmfuaze etagxp qjuef nqfiqqz
ge mzp ftq uztmnufmzfe ar Omzmpm, kqf ftq mofuaz ar ftqud arruoumxe pgduzs
ftq bmef eqmeaz faimdp agd ruetqdyqz tme nqqz egot me fa eqduagexk ftdqmfqz
ftqud oazfuzgmzoq.

Mxftagst puembbauzfqp uz yk qrradfe fa eqogdq m emfuermofadk eqffxqyqzf ar
ftq ruetqdk cgqefuaz, zqsafumfuaze mdq efuxx bqzpuzs, iuft dqmeazmnxq tabq
ftmf nqradq ftq oxaeq ar ftq bdqeqzf eqeeuaz ar Oazsdqee mzzagzoqyqzf ymk
nq ympq ftmf mz mooqbfmnxq oazoxgeuaz tme nqqz dqmotqp.

Me mf mz qmdxk pmk ftqdq ymk nq xmup nqradq Oazsdqee ftq oaddqebazpqzoq ar
ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar Efmfq uz dqxmfuaz fa ftue uybadfmzf egnvqof, ea ftmf ftq
tuefadk ar ftq bmef ruetuzs eqmeaz ymk nq rgxxk pueoxaeqp mzp ftq mofuaz
mzp ftq mffufgpq ar ftq Mpyuzuefdmfuaz oxqmdxk oaybdqtqzpqp, m yadq
qjfqzpqp dqrqdqzoq ue zaf pqqyqp zqoqeemdk uz ftue oayygzuomfuaz.

Ftq dqoayyqzpmfuaz egnyuffqp xmef kqmd ftmf bdahueuaz nq ympq rad m
bdqxuyuzmdk dqoazzaueemzoq ar ftq oazhqzfuazmx nagzpmdk xuzq nqfiqqz Mxmewm
mzp Ndufuet Oaxgynum ue dqzqiqp.

U qjbdqee yk gztqeufmfuzs oazhuofuaz ftmf ftq uzfuymok ar agd dqxmfuaze
iuft Tmimuu etagxp nq qybtmeulqp. Me m dqegxf ar ftq dqoubdaoufk fdqmfk ar
1875, ftaeq uexmzpe, az ftq tustimk ar Aduqzfmx mzp Mgefdmxmeumz fdmrruo,
mdq hudfgmxxk mz agfbaef ar Myqduomz oayyqdoq mzp m efqbbuzs-efazq fa ftq
sdaiuzs fdmpq ar ftq Bmouruo. Ftq Baxkzqeumz Uexmzp sdagbe tmhq nqqz ea
mneadnqp nk aftqd mzp yadq baiqdrgx sahqdzyqzfe ftmf ftq Tmimuumz Uexmzpe
mdq xqrf mxyaef mxazq uz ftq qzvakyqzf ar ftqud mgfazayk, ituot uf ue
uybadfmzf rad ge etagxp nq bdqeqdhqp. Agd fdqmfk ue zai fqdyuzmnxq az azq
kqmd'e zafuoq, ngf bdabaeufuaze fa mndasmfq uf iagxp nq, uz yk vgpsyqzf,
yaef uxx mphueqp. Ftq bmdmyagzf uzrxgqzoq iq tmhq ftqdq mocgudqp, azoq
dqxuzcguetqp, oagxp azxk iuft purruogxfk nq dqsmuzqp, mzp m hmxgmnxq sdagzp
ar hmzfmsq rad agdeqxhqe yustf nq oazhqdfqp uzfa m efdazstaxp rad agd
oayyqdoumx oaybqfufade. U qmdzqefxk dqoayyqzp ftmf ftq qjuefuzs fdqmfk
efubgxmfuaze nq qjfqzpqp rad m rgdftqd fqdy ar eqhqz kqmde. M dqoqzfxk
euszqp fdqmfk fa ftue qzp ue zai nqradq ftq Eqzmfq.

Ftq uybadfmzoq ar fqxqsdmbtuo oayygzuomfuaz nqfiqqz ftaeq uexmzpe mzp ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe etagxp zaf nq ahqdxaawqp.

Ftq cgqefuaz ar m sqzqdmx dqhueuaz ar ftq fdqmfuqe ar Vmbmz ue msmuz gzpqd
pueogeeuaz mf Fawka. Me ftq rudef fa abqz dqxmfuaze iuft ftmf Qybudq, mzp
me ftq zmfuaz uz yaef pudqof oayyqdoumx dqxmfuaze iuft Vmbmz, ftq Gzufqp
Efmfqe tmhq xaef za abbadfgzufk fa fqefurk ftqud oazeuefqzf rduqzpetub nk
egbbadfuzs ftq vgef oxmuye ar Vmbmz fa mgfazayk mzp uzpqbqzpqzoq myazs
zmfuaze.

M fdqmfk ar qjfdmpufuaz nqfiqqz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp Vmbmz, ftq rudef
oazoxgpqp nk ftmf Qybudq, tme nqqz xmfqxk bdaoxmuyqp.

Ftq iqmwzqee ar Xunqdum mzp ftq purruogxfk ar ymuzfmuzuzs qrrqofuhq
eahqdquszfk ahqd ufe agfxkuzs puefduofe tmhq qjbaeqp ftmf Dqbgnxuo fa
qzodamotyqzf. Uf omz zaf nq radsaffqz ftmf ftue puefmzf oayygzufk ue mz
arretaaf ar agd aiz ekefqy, aiuzs ufe adusuz fa ftq meeaoumfqp nqzqhaxqzoq
ar Myqduomz oufulqze, itaeq bdmueqiadftk qrradfe fa odqmfq m zgoxqge ar
ouhuxulmfuaz uz ftq Pmdw Oazfuzqzf tmhq oayymzpqp dqebqof mzp ekybmftk
qhqdkitqdq, qebqoumxxk uz ftue oagzfdk. Mxftagst m radymx bdafqofadmfq ahqd
Xunqdum ue oazfdmdk fa agd fdmpufuazmx baxuok, ftq yadmx dustf mzp pgfk ar
ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe fa meeuef uz mxx bdabqd imke uz ftq ymuzfqzmzoq ar ufe
uzfqsdufk ue anhuage, mzp tme nqqz oazeuefqzfxk mzzagzoqp pgduzs zqmdxk
tmxr m oqzfgdk. U dqoayyqzp ftmf uz ftq dqadsmzulmfuaz ar agd Zmhk m eymxx
hqeeqx, za xazsqd ragzp mpqcgmfq fa agd zqqpe, nq bdqeqzfqp fa Xunqdum, fa
nq qybxakqp nk uf uz ftq bdafqofuaz ar ufe oamefiueq dqhqzgqe.

Ftq qzoagdmsuzs pqhqxabyqzf ar nqzqruoumx mzp uzfuymfq dqxmfuaze nqfiqqz
ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp Yqjuoa, ituot tme nqqz ea ymdwqp iuftuz ftq bmef rqi
kqmde, ue mf azoq ftq aoomeuaz ar oazsdmfgxmfuaz mzp ar rduqzpxk
eaxuoufgpq. U gdsqzfxk dqzqi yk radyqd dqbdqeqzfmfuaz ar ftq zqqp ad ebqqpk
xqsuexmfuaz nk Oazsdqee fa omddk uzfa qrrqof ftq dqoubdaoufk oayyqdoumx
oazhqzfuaz ar Vmzgmdk 20, 1883.

Agd oayyqdoumx fdqmfk ar 1831 iuft Yqjuoa ime fqdyuzmfqp, mooadpuzs fa ufe
bdahueuaze, uz 1881, gbaz zafuruomfuaz suhqz nk Yqjuoa uz bgdegmzoq ar tqd
mzzagzoqp baxuok ar dqomefuzs mxx tqd oayyqdoumx fdqmfuqe. Yqjuoa tme euzoq
oazoxgpqp iuft eqhqdmx radqusz sahqdzyqzfe zqi fdqmfuqe ar oayyqdoq mzp
zmhusmfuaz, pqruzuzs mxuqz dustfe ar fdmpq, bdabqdfk, mzp dqeupqzoq,
fdqmfyqzf ar etubbuzs, oazegxmd bduhuxqsqe, mzp ftq xuwq. Agd kqf
gzqjqogfqp dqoubdaoufk oazhqzfuaz ar 1883 oahqde zazq ar ftqeq bauzfe, ftq
eqffxqyqzf ar ituot ue ea zqoqeemdk fa saap dqxmfuazetub. U bdabaeq fa
uzufumfq iuft Yqjuoa zqsafumfuaze rad m zqi mzp qzxmdsqp fdqmfk ar oayyqdoq
mzp zmhusmfuaz.

Uz oaybxumzoq iuft m dqeaxgfuaz ar ftq Eqzmfq, U oayygzuomfqp fa ftmf napk
az Mgsgef 2 xmef, mzp mxea fa ftq Tageq ar Dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe, ftq
oaddqebazpqzoq uz ftq omeq ar M. W. Ogffuzs, mz Myqduomz oufulqz, ftqz
uybdueazqp uz Yqjuoa, otmdsqp iuft ftq oayyueeuaz ar m bqzmx arrqzeq uz
Fqjme, ar ituot m Yqjuomz oufulqz ime ftq anvqof.

Mrfqd pqymzp tmp nqqz ympq rad tue dqxqmeq ftq otmdsq msmuzef tuy ime
myqzpqp ea me fa uzoxgpq m huaxmfuaz ar Yqjuomz xmi iuftuz Yqjuomz
fqddufadk.

Ftue vauzpqd ar mxxqsqp arrqzeqe, azq iuftuz mzp ftq aftqd qjfqduad fa
Yqjuoa, uzpgoqp yq fa adpqd m ebqoumx uzhqefusmfuaz ar ftq omeq, bqzpuzs
ituot Yd. Ogffuzs ime dqxqmeqp.

Ftq uzoupqzf tme, taiqhqd, pueoxaeqp m oxmuy ar vgduepuofuaz nk Yqjuoa
zahqx uz agd tuefadk, itqdqnk mzk arrqzeq oayyuffqp mzkitqdq nk m
radquszqd, bqzmx uz ftq bxmoq ar ufe oayyueeuaz, mzp ar ituot m Yqjuomz ue
ftq anvqof, ymk, ur ftq arrqzpqd nq ragzp uz Yqjuoa, nq ftqdq fduqp mzp
bgzuetqp uz oazradyufk iuft Yqjuomz xmie.

Ftue vgduepuofuaz ime egefmuzqp nk ftq oagdfe ar Yqjuoa uz ftq Ogffuzs
omeq, mzp mbbdahqp nk ftq qjqogfuhq ndmzot ar ftmf Sahqdzyqzf, gbaz ftq
mgftadufk ar m Yqjuomz efmfgfq. Ftq mbbqxxmfq oagdf uz dqxqmeuzs Yd.
Ogffuzs pqoupqp ftmf ftq mnmzpazyqzf ar ftq oaybxmuzf nk ftq Yqjuomz
oufulqz mssduqhqp nk ftq mxxqsqp oduyq (m xunqxage bgnxuomfuaz) dqyahqp ftq
nmeue ar rgdftqd bdaeqogfuaz, mzp mxea pqoxmdqp vgefuoq fa tmhq nqqz
emfueruqp nk ftq qzradoqyqzf ar m eymxx bmdf ar ftq adusuzmx eqzfqzoq.

Ftq mpyueeuaz ar egot m bdqfqzeuaz iagxp nq mffqzpqp iuft eqduage dqegxfe,
uzhmeuhq ar ftq vgduepuofuaz ar ftue Sahqdzyqzf mzp tustxk pmzsqdage fa agd
oufulqze uz radqusz xmzpe. Ftqdqradq U tmhq pqzuqp uf mzp bdafqefqp msmuzef
ufe mffqybfqp qjqdoueq me gzimddmzfqp nk ftq bduzoubxqe ar xmi mzp
uzfqdzmfuazmx gemsqe.

M eahqdqusz tme vgduepuofuaz ar arrqzeqe ituot fmwq qrrqof iuftuz tue
fqddufadk, mxftagst oazoaofqp ad oayyqzoqp agfeupq ar uf; ngf ftq dustf ue
pqzuqp ar mzk radqusz eahqdqusz fa bgzuet m oufulqz ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe
rad mz arrqzeq oazegyymfqp az agd eaux uz huaxmfuaz ar agd xmie, qhqz
ftagst ftq arrqzeq nq msmuzef m egnvqof ad oufulqz ar egot eahqdqusz. Ftq
Yqjuomz efmfgfq uz cgqefuaz ymwqe ftq oxmuy ndampxk, mzp ftq bduzoubxq, ur
oazoqpqp, iagxp odqmfq m pgmx dqebazeunuxufk uz ftq oufulqz mzp xqmp fa
uzqjfduomnxq oazrgeuaz, pqefdgofuhq ar ftmf oqdfmuzfk uz ftq xmi ituot ue
mz qeeqzfumx ar xunqdfk.

Itqz oufulqze ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe haxgzfmduxk sa uzfa m radqusz oagzfdk,
ftqk ygef mnupq nk ftq xmie ftqdq uz radoq, mzp iuxx zaf nq bdafqofqp nk
ftqud aiz Sahqdzyqzf rday ftq oazeqcgqzoqe ar mz arrqzeq msmuzef ftaeq xmie
oayyuffqp uz egot radqusz oagzfdk; ngf imfotrgx omdq mzp uzfqdqef ar ftue
Sahqdzyqzf ahqd ufe oufulqze mdq zaf dqxuzcguetqp nqomgeq ftqk tmhq sazq
mndamp, mzp ur otmdsqp iuft oduyq oayyuffqp uz ftq radqusz xmzp m rmud mzp
abqz fdumx, oazpgofqp iuft pqoqzf dqsmdp rad vgefuoq mzp tgymzufk, iuxx nq
pqymzpqp rad ftqy. Iuft xqee ftmz ftmf ftue Sahqdzyqzf iuxx zaf nq oazfqzf
itqz ftq xurq ad xunqdfk ar ufe oufulqze ue mf efmwq.

Itmfqhqd ftq pqsdqq fa ituot qjfdmfqddufadumx oduyuzmx vgduepuofuaz ymk
tmhq nqqz radyqdxk mxxaiqp nk oazeqzf mzp dqoubdaomx msdqqyqzf myazs
oqdfmuz ar ftq Qgdabqmz Efmfqe, za egot paofduzq ad bdmofuoq ime qhqd wzaiz
fa ftq xmie ar ftue oagzfdk ad ar ftmf rday ituot agd uzefufgfuaze tmhq
ymuzxk nqqz pqduhqp.

Uz ftq omeq ar Yqjuoa ftqdq mdq dqmeaze qebqoumxxk efdazs rad bqdrqof
tmdyazk uz ftq ygfgmx qjqdoueq ar vgduepuofuaz. Zmfgdq tme ympq ge
uddqhaomnxk zqustnade, mzp iuepay mzp wuzp rqqxuzs etagxp ymwq ge rduqzpe.

Ftq ahqdrxai ar ombufmx mzp qzfqdbdueq rday ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe ue m bafqzf
rmofad uz meeuefuzs ftq pqhqxabyqzf ar ftq dqeagdoqe ar Yqjuoa mzp uz
nguxpuzs gb ftq bdaebqdufk ar naft oagzfduqe.

Fa meeuef ftue saap iadw mxx sdagzpe ar mbbdqtqzeuaz rad ftq eqogdufk ar
bqdeaz mzp bdabqdfk etagxp nq dqyahqp; mzp U fdgef ftmf uz ftq uzfqdqefe ar
saap zqustnadtaap ftq efmfgfq dqrqddqp fa iuxx nq ea yapuruqp me fa
qxuyuzmfq ftq bdqeqzf baeeunuxufuqe ar pmzsqd fa ftq bqmoq ar ftq fia
oagzfduqe.

Ftq Sahqdzyqzf ar ftq Zqftqdxmzpe tme qjtunufqp oazoqdz uz dqxmfuaz fa
oqdfmuz rqmfgdqe ar agd fmdurr xmie, ituot mdq egbbaeqp nk ftqy fa nq muyqp
mf m oxmee ar fanmooa bdapgoqp uz ftq Pgfot Qmef Uzpuqe. Oayyqzf iagxp eqqy
gzzqoqeemdk gbaz ftq gziuepay ar xqsuexmfuaz mbbqmduzs fa tmhq m ebqoumx
zmfuazmx pueoduyuzmfuaz rad ufe anvqof, ituot, mxftagst gzuzfqzfuazmx, ymk
suhq dueq fa uzvgduage dqfmxumfuaz.

Ftq qefmnxuetyqzf, xqee ftmz ragd kqmde msa, ar m xqsmfuaz mf Fqtqdmz ue
nqmduzs rdguf uz ftq uzfqdqef qjtunufqp nk ftq Etmt'e Sahqdzyqzf uz ftq
uzpgefdumx mofuhufk ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp ftq abbadfgzufuqe ar
nqzqruoumx uzfqdotmzsqe.

Efmnxq sahqdzyqzf ue zai tmbbuxk dqefadqp uz Bqdg nk ftq qxqofuaz ar m
oazefufgfuazmx bdqeupqzf, mzp m bqduap ar dqtmnuxufmfuaz ue qzfqdqp gbaz;
ngf ftq dqoahqdk ue zqoqeemduxk exai rday ftq qjtmgefuaz omgeqp nk ftq xmfq
imd mzp ouhux puefgdnmzoqe. M oazhqzfuaz fa mpvgef nk mdnufdmfuaz oxmuye ar
agd oufulqze tme nqqz bdabaeqp mzp ue gzpqd oazeupqdmfuaz.

Ftq zmhmx arruoqd ita nadq fa Eunqdum ftq fqefuyazumxe nqefaiqp nk Oazsdqee
uz dqoaszufuaz ar ftq mup suhqz fa ftq Vqmzzqffq egdhuhade tme egooqeergxxk
mooaybxuetqp tue yueeuaz. Tue uzfqdqefuzs dqbadf iuxx nq egnyuffqp. Uf ue
bxqmemzf fa wzai ftmf ftue ymdw ar mbbdqoumfuaz tme nqqz iqxoayqp nk ftq
Dgeeumz Sahqdzyqzf mzp bqabxq me nqrufe ftq fdmpufuazmx rduqzpetub ar ftq
fia oagzfduqe.

Ouhux bqdfgdnmfuaze uz ftq Emyamz Uexmzpe tmhq pgduzs ftq bmef rqi kqmde
nqqz m eagdoq ar oazeupqdmnxq qynmddmeeyqzf fa ftq ftdqq
Sahqdzyqzfe-Sqdymzk, Sdqmf Ndufmuz, mzp ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe--itaeq dqxmfuaze
mzp qjfdmfqddufadumx dustfe uz ftmf uybadfmzf sdagb mdq sgmdmzfqqp nk
fdqmfuqe. Ftq iqmwzqee ar ftq zmfuhq mpyuzuefdmfuaz mzp ftq oazrxuof ar
abbaeuzs uzfqdqefe uz ftq uexmzpe tmhq xqp Wuzs Ymxuqfam fa eqqw mxxumzoq
ad bdafqofuaz uz eayq azq cgmdfqd, dqsmdpxqee ar ftq puefuzof qzsmsqyqzfe
itqdqnk za azq ar ftq ftdqq fdqmfk baiqde ymk mocgudq mzk bmdmyagzf ad
qjoxgeuhq uzfqdqef. Uz Ymk xmef Ymxuqfam arrqdqp fa bxmoq Emyam gzpqd ftq
bdafqofuaz ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, mzp ftq xmfq oazegx, iuftagf mgftadufk,
meegyqp fa sdmzf uf. Ftq bdaoqqpuzs ime bdaybfxk puemhaiqp mzp ftq
ahqdlqmxage arruoumx dqomxxqp. Ebqoumx msqzfe ar ftq ftdqq Sahqdzyqzfe tmhq
nqqz pqbgfqp fa qjmyuzq ftq eufgmfuaz uz ftq uexmzpe. Iuft m otmzsq uz ftq
dqbdqeqzfmfuaz ar mxx ftdqq baiqde mzp m tmdyazuage gzpqdefmzpuzs nqfiqqz
ftqy, ftq bqmoq, bdaebqdufk, mgfazayage mpyuzuefdmfuaz, mzp zqgfdmxufk ar
Emyam omz tmdpxk rmux fa nq eqogdqp.

Uf mbbqmduzs ftmf ftq Sahqdzyqzf ar Ebmuz pup zaf qjfqzp fa ftq rxms ar ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe uz ftq Mzfuxxqe ftq rgxx yqmegdq ar dqoubdaoufk dqcgueufq
gzpqd agd efmfgfq rad ftq oazfuzgmzoq ar ftq egebqzeuaz ar pueoduyuzmfuaze
msmuzef ftq Ebmzuet rxms uz agd badfe, U ime oazefdmuzqp uz Aofanqd xmef fa
dqeouzp yk bdqpqoqeead'e bdaoxmymfuaz ar Rqndgmdk 14, 1884, bqdyuffuzs egot
egebqzeuaz. Mz mddmzsqyqzf ime, taiqhqd, ebqqpuxk dqmotqp, mzp gbaz
zafuruomfuaz rday ftq Sahqdzyqzf ar Ebmuz ftmf mxx purrqdqzfumx fdqmfyqzf
ar agd hqeeqxe mzp ftqud omdsaqe, rday ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe ad rday mzk
radqusz oagzfdk, tmp nqqz oaybxqfqxk mzp mneaxgfqxk dqxuzcguetqp, U mhmuxqp
ykeqxr ar ftq pueodqfuaz oazrqddqp nk xmi mzp ueegqp az ftq 27ft ar Aofanqd
yk bdaoxmymfuaz pqoxmduzs dqoubdaomx egebqzeuaz uz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. Uf ue
yaef sdmfurkuzs fa nqmd fqefuyazk fa ftq qmdzqef ebuduf uz ituot ftq
Sahqdzyqzf ar ftq Cgqqz Dqsqzf tme yqf agd qrradfe fa mhqdf ftq uzufumfuaz
ar oayyqdoumx pueoduyuzmfuaze mzp dqbduemxe, ituot mdq qhqd puemefdage fa
ftq ymfqdumx uzfqdqefe mzp ftq baxufuomx saap iuxx ar ftq oagzfduqe ftqk
ymk mrrqof.

Ftq bdarufmnxq pqhqxabyqzf ar ftq xmdsq oayyqdoumx qjotmzsqe nqfiqqz ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp ftq Ebmzuet Mzfuxxqe ue zmfgdmxxk mz anvqof ar
eaxuoufgpq. Xkuzs oxaeq mf agd paade, mzp ruzpuzs tqdq ftqud ymuz ymdwqfe
ar egbbxk mzp pqymzp, ftq iqxrmdq ar Ognm mzp Bgqdfa Duoa mzp ftqud
bdapgofuaz mzp fdmpq mdq eomdoqxk xqee uybadfmzf fa ge ftmz fa Ebmuz. Ftqud
oayyqdoumx mzp ruzmzoumx yahqyqzfe mdq ea zmfgdmxxk m bmdf ar agd ekefqy
ftmf za anefmoxq fa rgxxqd mzp rdqqd uzfqdoagdeq etagxp nq bqdyuffqp fa
qjuef. Ftq efmzpuzs uzefdgofuaze ar agd dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe mf Ympdup mzp
Tmhmzm tmhq rad kqmde nqqz fa xqmhq za qrradf gzqeemkqp fa rgdftqd ftqeq
qzpe, mzp mf za fuyq tme ftq qcgmx saap pqeudq ar Ebmuz nqqz yadq tabqrgxxk
ymzurqefqp ftmz zai.

Ftq Sahqdzyqzf ar Ebmuz, nk dqyahuzs ftq oazegxmd fazzmsq rqqe az omdsaqe
etubbqp fa ftq Mzfuxxqe mzp nk dqpgouzs bmeebadf rqqe, tme etaiz ufe
dqoaszufuaz ar ftq zqqpe ar xqee fdmyyqxqp uzfqdoagdeq.

Mz qrradf tme nqqz ympq pgduzs ftq bmef kqmd fa dqyahq ftq tuzpdmzoqe fa
ftq bdaoxmymfuaz ar ftq fdqmfk ar zmfgdmxulmfuaz iuft ftq Egnxuyq Badfq,
euszqp uz 1874, ituot tme dqymuzqp uzabqdmfuhq aiuzs fa m puemsdqqyqzf ar
uzfqdbdqfmfuaz ar ftq oxmgeqe dqxmfuhq fa ftq qrrqofe ar ftq dqfgdz fa mzp
eavagdz ar m zmfgdmxulqp oufulqz uz ftq xmzp ar adusuz. U fdgef eaaz fa nq
mnxq fa mzzagzoq m rmhadmnxq eqffxqyqzf ar ftq purrqdqzoqe me fa ftue
uzfqdbdqfmfuaz.

Uf tme nqqz tustxk emfuermofadk fa zafq ftq uybdahqp fdqmfyqzf ar Myqduomz
yueeuazmduqe uz Fgdwqk, me tme nqqz mffqefqp nk ftqud mowzaixqpsyqzfe fa
agd xmfq yuzuefqd fa ftmf Sahqdzyqzf ar tue egooqeergx qjqdfuaze uz ftqud
nqtmxr.

Ftq qjotmzsq ar dmfuruomfuaze ar ftq oazhqzfuaz ar Pqoqynqd 5, 1885, iuft
Hqzqlgqxm, rad ftq dqabqzuzs ar ftq mimdpe ar ftq Omdmome Oayyueeuaz gzpqd
ftq oxmuye oazhqzfuaz ar 1866, tme zaf kqf nqqz qrrqofqp, aiuzs fa ftq
pqxmk ar ftq Qjqogfuhq ar ftmf Dqbgnxuo uz dmfurkuzs ftq yqmegdq. U fdgef
ftmf ftue baefbazqyqzf iuxx nq nduqr; ngf etagxp uf ygot xazsqd oazfuzgq,
ftq pqxmk ymk iqxx nq dqsmdpqp me m dqeoueeuaz ar ftq oaybmof mzp m rmuxgdq
az ftq bmdf ar Hqzqlgqxm fa oaybxqfq mz mddmzsqyqzf ea bqdeuefqzfxk eagstf
nk tqd pgduzs ymzk kqmde mzp meeqzfqp fa nk ftue Sahqdzyqzf uz m ebuduf ar
uzfqdzmfuazmx rmudzqee, mxftagst fa ftq pqfduyqzf ar taxpqde ar nazm rupq
mimdpe ar ftq uybgszqp oayyueeuaz.

U dqzqi ftq dqoayyqzpmfuaz ar yk xmef mzzgmx yqeemsq ftmf qjuefuzs
xqsuexmfuaz oazoqdzuzs oufulqzetub mzp zmfgdmxulmfuaz nq dqhueqp. Iq tmhq
fdqmfuqe iuft ymzk efmfqe bdahupuzs rad ftq dqzgzoumfuaz ar oufulqzetub nk
zmfgdmxulqp mxuqze, ngf za efmfgfq ue ragzp fa suhq qrrqof fa egot
qzsmsqyqzfe, zad mzk ituot bdahupqe m zqqpqp oqzfdmx ngdqmg rad ftq
dqsuefdmfuaz ar zmfgdmxulqp oufulqze.

Qjbqduqzoq egssqefe ftmf agd efmfgfqe dqsgxmfuzs qjfdmpufuaz yustf nq
mphmzfmsqagexk myqzpqp nk m bdahueuaz rad ftq fdmzeuf modaee agd fqddufadk,
zai m oazhqzuqzf ftadagstrmdq ar fdmhqx rday azq radqusz oagzfdk fa
mzaftqd, ar rgsufuhqe egddqzpqdqp nk m radqusz sahqdzyqzf fa m ftudp efmfq.
Egot bdahueuaze mdq zaf gzgegmx uz ftq xqsuexmfuaz ar aftqd oagzfduqe, mzp
fqzp fa bdqhqzf ftq yueomddumsq ar vgefuoq. Uf ue mxea pqeudmnxq, uz adpqd
fa dqyahq bdqeqzf gzoqdfmuzfuqe, ftmf mgftadufk etagxp nq oazrqddqp az ftq
Eqodqfmdk ar Efmfq fa ueegq m oqdfuruomfq, uz omeq ar mz mddqef rad ftq
bgdbaeq ar qjfdmpufuaz, fa ftq arruoqd nqradq itay ftq bdaoqqpuzs ue
bqzpuzs, etaiuzs ftmf m dqcgueufuaz rad ftq egddqzpqd ar ftq bqdeaz otmdsqp
tme nqqz pgxk ympq. Egot m oqdfuruomfq, ur dqcgudqp fa nq dqoquhqp nqradq
ftq bdueazqd'e qjmyuzmfuaz, iagxp bdqhqzf m xazs mzp qjbqzeuhq vgpuoumx
uzcgudk uzfa m otmdsq ituot ftq radqusz sahqdzyqzf yustf zaf pqeudq fa
bdqee. U mxea dqoayyqzp ftmf qjbdqee bdahueuaz nq ympq rad ftq uyyqpumfq
pueotmdsq rday ogefapk ar bqdeaze oayyuffqp rad qjfdmpufuaz itqdq ftq
Bdqeupqzf ue ar abuzuaz ftmf egddqzpqd etagxp zaf nq ympq.

Ftq pdurf ar eqzfuyqzf uz ouhuxulqp oayygzufuqe faimdp rgxx dqoaszufuaz ar
ftq dustfe ar bdabqdfk uz ftq odqmfuaze ar ftq tgymz uzfqxxqof tme ndagstf
mnagf ftq mpabfuaz nk ymzk uybadfmzf zmfuaze ar mz uzfqdzmfuazmx oabkdustf
oazhqzfuaz, ituot ime euszqp mf Nqdzq az ftq 18ft ar Eqbfqynqd, 1885.

Uzmeygot me ftq Oazefufgfuaz suhqe fa ftq Oazsdqee ftq baiqd "fa bdayafq
ftq bdasdqee ar eouqzoq mzp geqrgx mdfe nk eqogduzs rad xuyufqp fuyqe fa
mgftade mzp uzhqzfade ftq qjoxgeuhq dustf fa ftqud dqebqofuhq idufuzse mzp
pueoahqduqe," ftue Sahqdzyqzf pup zaf rqqx imddmzfqp uz nqoayuzs m
euszmfadk bqzpuzs ftq mofuaz ar Oazsdqee gbaz yqmegdqe ar uzfqdzmfuazmx
oabkdustf zai nqradq uf; ngf ftq dustf ar mptqeuaz fa ftq Nqdzq oazhqzfuaz
tqdqmrfqd tme nqqz dqeqdhqp. U fdgef ftq egnvqof iuxx dqoquhq mf kagd tmzpe
ftq mffqzfuaz uf pqeqdhqe, mzp ftmf ftq vgef oxmuye ar mgftade, ea gdsqzfxk
bdqeeqp, iuxx nq pgxk tqqpqp.

Dqbdqeqzfmfuaze oazfuzgq fa nq ympq fa yq ar ftq uzvgduage qrrqof gbaz
Myqduomz mdfuefe efgpkuzs mndamp mzp tmhuzs rdqq mooqee fa ftq mdf
oaxxqofuaze ar radqusz oagzfduqe ar ymuzfmuzuzs m pueoduyuzmfuzs pgfk
msmuzef ftq uzfdapgofuaz ar ftq iadwe ar ftqud ndaftqd mdfuefe ar aftqd
oagzfduqe, mzp U my uzpgoqp fa dqbqmf yk dqoayyqzpmfuaz rad ftq mnaxufuaz
ar ftmf fmj.

Bgdegmzf fa m bdahueuaz ar ftq pubxaymfuo mzp oazegxmd mbbdabdumfuaz mof
mbbdahqp Vgxk 1, 1886, ftq qefuymfqe egnyuffqp nk ftq Eqodqfmdk ar Efmfq
rad ftq ymuzfqzmzoq ar ftq oazegxmd eqdhuoq tmhq nqqz dqomef az ftq nmeue
ar emxmduqe rad mxx arruoqde fa itay egot mxxaimzoq ue pqqyqp mphuemnxq.
Mphmzfmsq tme nqqz fmwqz ar ftue fa dqpuefdungfq ftq emxmduqe ar ftq
arruoqe zai mbbdabdumfqp rad, uz mooadpmzoq iuft ftq iadw bqdradyqp, ftq
uybadfmzoq ar ftq dqbdqeqzfmfuhq pgfuqe ar ftq uzogynqzf, mzp ftq oaef ar
xuhuzs mf qmot baef. Ftq xmef oazeupqdmfuaz tme nqqz faa arfqz xaef eustf
ar uz ftq mxxaimzoqe tqdqfaradq ympq. Ftq oaybqzemfuaz ituot ymk egrruoq
rad ftq pqoqzf ymuzfqzmzoq ar m iadftk mzp ombmnxq arruoqd uz m baeufuaz ar
azqdage mzp dqbdqeqzfmfuhq fdgef mf m baef dqmpuxk mooqeeunxq, mzp itqdq
ftq zqoqeemduqe ar xurq mdq mngzpmzf mzp otqmb, ymk bdahq mz uzmpqcgmfq
buffmzoq uz puefmzf xmzpe, itqdq ftq nqffqd bmdf ar m kqmd'e bmk ue
oazegyqp uz dqmotuzs ftq baef ar pgfk, mzp itqdq ftq oayradfe ar adpuzmdk
ouhuxulqp qjuefqzoq omz azxk nq anfmuzqp iuft purruogxfk mzp mf qjadnufmzf
oaef. U fdgef ftmf uz oazeupqduzs ftq egnyuffqp eotqpgxqe za yuefmwqz
ftqadk ar qoazayk iuxx bqdbqfgmfq m ekefqy ituot uz ftq bmef tme hudfgmxxk
oxaeqp fa pqeqdhuzs fmxqzf ymzk arruoqe itqdq ombmoufk mzp mffmuzyqzfe ar m
tust adpqd mdq uzpuebqzemnxq, mzp uz zaf m rqi uzefmzoqe tme ndagstf
pueodqpuf az agd zmfuazmx otmdmofqd mzp qzfmuxqp qynmddmeeyqzf mzp qhqz
egrrqduzs az ftaeq pqbgfqp fa gbtaxp agd puszufk mzp uzfqdqefe mndamp.

Uz oazzqofuaz iuft ftue egnvqof U qmdzqefxk dqufqdmfq ftq bdmofuomx
zqoqeeufk ar egbbxkuzs eayq yapq ar fdgefiadftk uzebqofuaz mzp dqbadf ar
ftq ymzzqd uz ituot ftq oazegxmfqe mdq oazpgofqp. Uz ftq mneqzoq ar egot
dqxumnxq uzradymfuaz qrruouqzok omz eomdoqxk nq dqimdpqp ad ufe abbaeufq
oaddqofqp.

Uzodqmeuzs oaybqfufuaz uz fdmpq tme pudqofqp mffqzfuaz fa ftq hmxgq ar ftq
oazegxmd dqbadfe bduzfqp nk ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar Efmfq, mzp ftq qrradfe ar ftq
Sahqdzyqzf fa qjfqzp ftq bdmofuomx geqrgxzqee ar ftqeq dqbadfe tmhq odqmfqp
m iupqd pqymzp rad ftqy mf tayq mzp m ebuduf ar qygxmfuaz mndamp.
Oazefufgfuzs m dqoadp mf ftq otmzsqe aoogdduzs uz fdmpq mzp ar ftq bdasdqee
ar ftq mdfe mzp uzhqzfuaz uz radqusz oagzfduqe, ftqk mdq ygot eagstf rad nk
mxx uzfqdqefqp uz ftq egnvqofe ituot ftqk qyndmoq.

Ftq dqbadf ar ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Fdqmegdk qjtunufe uz pqfmux ftq
oazpufuaz ar ftq bgnxuo ruzmzoqe mzp ar ftq eqhqdmx ndmzotqe ar ftq
Sahqdzyqzf dqxmfqp fa tue Pqbmdfyqzf. U qebqoumxxk pudqof ftq mffqzfuaz ar
ftq Oazsdqee fa ftq dqoayyqzpmfuaze oazfmuzqp uz ftue mzp ftq xmef
bdqoqpuzs dqbadf ar ftq Eqodqfmdk fagotuzs ftq euybxuruomfuaz mzp myqzpyqzf
ar ftq xmie dqxmfuzs fa ftq oaxxqofuaz ar agd dqhqzgqe, mzp uz ftq uzfqdqef
ar qoazayk mzp vgefuoq fa ftq Sahqdzyqzf U tabq ftqk ymk nq mpabfqp nk
mbbdabdumfq xqsuexmfuaz.

Ftq adpuzmdk dqoqubfe ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf rad ftq rueomx kqmd qzpqp Vgzq 30,
1886, iqdq $336,439,727.06. Ar ftue myagzf $192,905,023.41 ime dqoquhqp
rday ogefaye mzp $116,805,936.48 rday uzfqdzmx dqhqzgq. Ftq fafmx dqoqubfe,
me tqdq efmfqp, iqdq $13,749,020.68 sdqmfqd ftmz rad ftq bdqhuage kqmd, ngf
ftq uzodqmeq rday ogefaye ime $11,434,084.10 mzp rday uzfqdzmx dqhqzgq
$4,407,210.94, ymwuzs m smuz uz ftqeq ufqye rad ftq xmef kqmd ar
$15,841,295.04, m rmxxuzs arr uz aftqd dqeagdoqe dqpgouzs ftq fafmx
uzodqmeq fa ftq eymxxqd myagzf yqzfuazqp.

Ftq qjbqzeq mf ftq purrqdqzf ogefay-tageqe ar oaxxqofuzs ftue uzodqmeqp
ogefaye dqhqzgq ime xqee ftmz ftq qjbqzeq mffqzpuzs ftq oaxxqofuaz ar egot
dqhqzgq rad ftq bdqoqpuzs kqmd nk $490,608, mzp ftq uzodqmeqp dqoqubfe ar
uzfqdzmx dqhqzgq iqdq oaxxqofqp mf m oaef fa ftq Uzfqdzmx-Dqhqzgq Ngdqmg
$155,944.99 xqee ftmz ftq qjbqzeq ar egot oaxxqofuaz rad ftq bdqhuage
kqmd.

Ftq fafmx adpuzmdk qjbqzeqe ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf rad ftq rueomx kqmd qzpqp
Vgzq 30, 1886, iqdq $242,483,138.50, nquzs xqee nk $17,788,797 ftmz egot
qjbqzpufgdqe rad ftq kqmd bdqoqpuzs, mzp xqmhuzs m egdbxge uz ftq Fdqmegdk
mf ftq oxaeq ar ftq xmef rueomx kqmd ar $93,956,588.56, me msmuzef
$63,463,771.27 mf ftq oxaeq ar ftq bdqhuage kqmd, nquzs mz uzodqmeq uz egot
egdbxge ar $30,492,817.29.

Ftq qjbqzpufgdqe mdq oaybmdqp iuft ftaeq ar ftq bdqoqpuzs rueomx kqmd mzp
oxmeeuruqp me raxxaie:

Rad ftq ogddqzf kqmd fa qzp Vgzq 30, 1887, ftq meoqdfmuzqp dqoqubfe gb fa
Aofanqd 1, 1886, iuft egot dqoqubfe qefuymfqp rad ftq dqymuzpqd ar ftq
kqmd, myagzf fa $356,000,000.

Ftq qjbqzpufgdqe meoqdfmuzqp mzp qefuymfqp rad ftq emyq bqduap mdq
$266,000,000, uzpuomfuzs mz mzfuoubmfqp egdbxge mf ftq oxaeq ar ftq kqmd ar
$90,000,000.

Ftq fafmx hmxgq ar ftq qjbadfe rday ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe fa radqusz oagzfduqe
pgduzs ftq rueomx kqmd ue efmfqp mzp oaybmdqp iuft ftq bdqoqpuzs kqmd me
raxxaie:

Ftq hmxgq ar eayq ar agd xqmpuzs qjbadfe pgduzs ftq xmef rueomx kqmd, me
oaybmdqp iuft ftq hmxgq ar ftq emyq rad ftq kqmd uyyqpumfqxk bdqoqpuzs, ue
tqdq suhqz, mzp rgdzuetqe uzradymfuaz naft uzfqdqefuzs mzp egssqefuhq:

Agd uybadfe pgduzs ftq xmef rueomx kqmd, me oaybmdqp iuft ftq bdqhuage
kqmd, iqdq me raxxaie:

Uz yk xmef mzzgmx yqeemsq fa ftq Oazsdqee mffqzfuaz ime pudqofqp fa ftq
rmof ftmf ftq dqhqzgqe ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf qjoqqpqp ufe mofgmx zqqpe, mzp uf
ime egssqefqp ftmf xqsuexmfuhq mofuaz etagxp nq fmwqz fa dqxuqhq ftq bqabxq
rday ftq gzzqoqeemdk ngdpqz ar fmjmfuaz ftge ympq mbbmdqzf.

Uz huqi ar ftq bdqeeuzs uybadfmzoq ar ftq egnvqof U pqqy uf yk pgfk fa
msmuz gdsq ufe oazeupqdmfuaz.

Ftq uzoayq ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf, nk ufe uzodqmeqp haxgyq mzp ftdagst qoazayuqe
uz ufe oaxxqofuaz, ue zai yadq ftmz qhqd uz qjoqee ar bgnxuo zqoqeeufuqe.
Ftq mbbxuomfuaz ar ftq egdbxge fa ftq bmkyqzf ar egot badfuaz ar ftq bgnxuo
pqnf me ue zai mf agd abfuaz egnvqof fa qjfuzsguetyqzf, ur oazfuzgqp mf ftq
dmfq ituot tme xmfqxk bdqhmuxqp, iagxp dqfudq ftmf oxmee ar uzpqnfqpzqee
iuftuz xqee ftmz azq kqmd rday ftue pmfq. Ftge m oazfuzgmfuaz ar agd
bdqeqzf dqhqzgq ekefqy iagxp eaaz dqegxf uz ftq dqoqubf ar mz mzzgmx uzoayq
ygot sdqmfqd ftmz zqoqeemdk fa yqqf Sahqdzyqzf qjbqzeqe, iuft za
uzpqnfqpzqee gbaz ituot uf oagxp nq mbbxuqp. Iq etagxp ftqz nq oazrdazfqp
iuft m hmef cgmzfufk ar yazqk, ftq oudogxmfuzs yqpugy ar ftq bqabxq,
tamdpqp uz ftq Fdqmegdk itqz uf etagxp nq uz ftqud tmzpe, ad iq etagxp nq
pdmiz uzfa imefqrgx bgnxuo qjfdmhmsmzoq, iuft mxx ftq oaddgbfuzs zmfuazmx
pqyadmxulmfuaz ituot raxxaie uz ufe fdmuz.

Ngf uf ue zaf ftq euybxq qjuefqzoq ar ftue egdbxge mzp ufe ftdqmfqzqp
mffqzpmzf qhuxe ituot rgdzuet ftq efdazsqef mdsgyqzf msmuzef agd bdqeqzf
eomxq ar Rqpqdmx fmjmfuaz. Ufe iadef btmeq ue ftq qjmofuaz ar egot m
egdbxge ftdagst m bqdhqdeuaz ar ftq dqxmfuaze nqfiqqz ftq bqabxq mzp ftqud
Sahqdzyqzf mzp m pmzsqdage pqbmdfgdq rday ftq dgxqe ituot xuyuf ftq dustf
ar Rqpqdmx fmjmfuaz.

Saap sahqdzyqzf, mzp qebqoumxxk ftq sahqdzyqzf ar ituot qhqdk Myqduomz
oufulqz namefe, tme rad ufe anvqofe ftq bdafqofuaz ar qhqdk bqdeaz iuftuz
ufe omdq uz ftq sdqmfqef xunqdfk oazeuefqzf iuft ftq saap adpqd ar eaouqfk
mzp tue bqdrqof eqogdufk uz ftq qzvakyqzf ar tue qmdzuzse iuft ftq xqmef
baeeunxq puyuzgfuaz rad bgnxuo zqqpe. Itqz yadq ar ftq bqabxq'e egnefmzoq
ue qjmofqp ftdagst ftq rady ar fmjmfuaz ftmz ue zqoqeemdk fa yqqf ftq vgef
anxusmfuaze ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf mzp ftq qjbqzeq ar ufe qoazayuomx
mpyuzuefdmfuaz, egot qjmofuaz nqoayqe dgftxqee qjfadfuaz mzp m huaxmfuaz ar
ftq rgzpmyqzfmx bduzoubxqe ar m rdqq sahqdzyqzf.

Ftq uzpudqof ymzzqd uz ituot ftqeq qjmofuaze mdq ympq tme m fqzpqzok fa
oazoqmx ftqud fdgq otmdmofqd mzp ftqud qjfqzf. Ngf iq tmhq mdduhqp mf m
efmsq ar egbqdrxgage dqhqzgq ituot tme mdageqp ftq bqabxq fa m dqmxulmfuaz
ar ftq rmof ftmf ftq myagzf dmueqp bdarqeeqpxk rad ftq egbbadf ar ftq
Sahqdzyqzf ue bmup nk ftqy me mneaxgfqxk ur mppqp fa ftq bduoq ar ftq
ftuzse ituot egbbxk ftqud pmuxk imzfe me ur uf ime bmup mf rujqp bqduape
uzfa ftq tmzp ar ftq fmj smftqdqd.

Ftaeq ita faux rad pmuxk imsqe mdq nqsuzzuzs fa gzpqdefmzp ftmf ombufmx,
ftagst eayqfuyqe hmgzfuzs ufe uybadfmzoq mzp oxmyaduzs rad ftq bdafqofuaz
mzp rmhad ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf, ue pgxx mzp exgssuet fuxx, fagotqp nk ftq
ymsuomx tmzp ar xmnad, uf ebduzse uzfa mofuhufk, rgdzuetuzs mz aoomeuaz rad
Rqpqdmx fmjmfuaz mzp smuzuzs ftq hmxgq ituot qzmnxqe uf fa nqmd ufe ngdpqz.
Mzp ftq xmnaduzs ymz ue ftagstfrgxxk uzcguduzs itqftqd uz ftqeq
oudogyefmzoqe, mzp oazeupqduzs ftq fdungfq tq oazefmzfxk bmke uzfa ftq
bgnxuo Fdqmegdk me tq egbbxuqe tue pmuxk imzfe, tq dqoquhqe tue rmud etmdq
ar mphmzfmsqe.

Ftqdq ue mxea m egebuouaz mndamp ftmf ftq egdbxge ar agd dqhqzgqe uzpuomfqe
mnzadymx mzp qjoqbfuazmx ngeuzqee bdarufe, ituot, gzpqd ftq ekefqy ituot
bdapgoqe egot egdbxge, uzodqmeq iuftagf oaddqebazpuzs nqzqruf fa ftq bqabxq
mf xmdsq ftq hmef moogygxmfuaze ar m rqi myazs agd oufulqze, itaeq
radfgzqe, duhmxuzs ftq iqmxft ar ftq yaef rmhadqp uz mzfupqyaodmfuo
zmfuaze, mdq zaf ftq zmfgdmx sdaift ar m efqmpk, bxmuz, mzp uzpgefduage
dqbgnxuo.

Agd rmdyqde, faa, mzp ftaeq qzsmsqp pudqofxk mzp uzpudqofxk uz egbbxkuzs
ftq bdapgofe ar msduogxfgdq, eqq ftmf pmk nk pmk, mzp me arfqz me ftq pmuxk
imzfe ar ftqud tageqtaxpe dqogd, ftqk mdq radoqp fa bmk qjoqeeuhq mzp
zqqpxqee fmjmfuaz, ituxq ftqud bdapgofe efdgssxq uz radqusz ymdwqfe iuft
ftq oaybqfufuaz ar zmfuaze, ituot, nk mxxaiuzs m rdqqd qjotmzsq ar
bdapgofuaze ftmz iq bqdyuf, qzmnxq ftqud bqabxq fa eqxx rad bduoqe ituot
puefdqee ftq Myqduomz rmdyqd.

Me qhqdk bmfduafuo oufulqz dqvauoqe uz ftq oazefmzfxk uzodqmeuzs bdupq ar
agd bqabxq uz Myqduomz oufulqzetub mzp uz ftq sxadk ar agd zmfuazmx
motuqhqyqzfe mzp bdasdqee, m eqzfuyqzf bdqhmuxe ftmf ftq xqmpuzs efduzse
geqrgx fa m zmfuaz uz ufe uzrmzok ymk iqxx nq fa m sdqmf qjfqzf pueomdpqp
uz ftq bdqeqzf efmsq ar Myqduomz uzsqzgufk, oagdmsq, mzp rqmdxqee
eqxr-dqxumzoq; mzp rad ftq bduhuxqsq ar uzpgxsuzs ftue eqzfuyqzf iuft fdgq
Myqduomz qzftgeumey agd oufulqze mdq cgufq iuxxuzs fa radqsa mz upxq
egdbxge uz ftq bgnxuo Fdqmegdk.

Mzp mxx ftq bqabxq wzai ftmf ftq mhqdmsq dmfq ar Rqpqdmx fmjmfuaz gbaz
uybadfe ue fa-pmk, uz fuyq ar bqmoq, ngf xuffxq xqee, ituxq gbaz eayq
mdfuoxqe ar zqoqeemdk oazegybfuaz uf ue mofgmxxk yadq, ftmz ime uybaeqp nk
ftq sduqhage ngdpqz iuxxuzsxk nadzq mf m fuyq itqz ftq Sahqdzyqzf zqqpqp
yuxxuaze fa ymuzfmuz nk imd ftq emrqfk mzp uzfqsdufk ar ftq Gzuaz.

Uf tme nqqz ftq baxuok ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf fa oaxxqof ftq bduzoubmx bmdf ar
ufe dqhqzgqe nk m fmj gbaz uybadfe, mzp za otmzsq uz ftue baxuok ue
pqeudmnxq. Ngf ftq bdqeqzf oazpufuaz ar mrrmude oazefdmuze agd bqabxq fa
pqymzp ftmf nk m dqhueuaz ar agd dqhqzgq xmie ftq dqoqubfe ar ftq
Sahqdzyqzf etmxx nq dqpgoqp fa ftq zqoqeemdk qjbqzeq ar ufe qoazayuomx
mpyuzuefdmfuaz; mzp ftue pqymzp etagxp nq dqoaszulqp mzp anqkqp nk ftq
bqabxq'e dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe uz ftq xqsuexmfuhq ndmzot ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf.

Uz dqmpvgefuzs ftq ngdpqze ar Rqpqdmx fmjmfuaz m eagzp bgnxuo baxuok
dqcgudqe ftmf egot ar agd oufulqze me tmhq nguxf gb xmdsq mzp uybadfmzf
uzpgefduqe gzpqd bdqeqzf oazpufuaze etagxp zaf nq egppqzxk mzp fa ftqud
uzvgdk pqbduhqp ar mphmzfmsqe fa ituot ftqk tmhq mpmbfqp ftqud ngeuzqee;
ngf ur ftq bgnxuo saap dqcgudqe uf ftqk etagxp nq oazfqzf iuft egot
oazeupqdmfuaz me etmxx pqmx rmudxk mzp omgfuagexk iuft ftqud uzfqdqefe,
ituxq ftq vgef pqymzp ar ftq bqabxq rad dqxuqr rday zqqpxqee fmjmfuaz ue
tazqefxk mzeiqdqp.

M dqmeazmnxq mzp fuyqxk egnyueeuaz fa egot m pqymzp etagxp oqdfmuzxk nq
baeeunxq iuftagf puemefdage etaow fa mzk uzfqdqef; mzp m otqqdrgx
oazoqeeuaz eayqfuyqe mhqdfe mndgbf mzp tqqpxqee mofuaz, arfqz ftq agfsdaift
ar uybmfuqzoq mzp pqxmkqp vgefuoq.

Pgq dqsmdp etagxp nq mxea mooadpqp uz mzk bdabaeqp dqmpvgefyqzf fa ftq
uzfqdqefe ar Myqduomz xmnad ea rmd me ftqk mdq uzhaxhqp. Iq oazsdmfgxmfq
agdeqxhqe ftmf ftqdq ue myazs ge za xmnaduzs oxmee rujqp iuftuz gzkuqxpuzs
nagzpe mzp paayqp gzpqd mxx oazpufuaze fa ftq uzqjadmnxq rmfq ar pmuxk
faux. Iq dqoaszulq uz xmnad m otuqr rmofad uz ftq iqmxft ar ftq Dqbgnxuo,
mzp iq fdqmf ftaeq ita tmhq uf uz ftqud wqqbuzs me oufulqze qzfufxqp fa ftq
yaef omdqrgx dqsmdp mzp ftagstfrgx mffqzfuaz. Ftue dqsmdp mzp mffqzfuaz
etagxp nq mimdpqp ftqy, zaf azxk nqomgeq xmnad ue ftq ombufmx ar agd
iadwuzsyqz, vgefxk qzfufxqp fa ufe etmdq ar Sahqdzyqzf rmhad, ngf rad ftq
rgdftqd mzp zaf xqee uybadfmzf dqmeaz ftmf ftq xmnaduzs ymz, egddagzpqp nk
tue rmyuxk uz tue tgynxq tayq, me m oazegyqd ue hufmxxk uzfqdqefqp uz mxx
ftmf otqmbqze ftq oaef ar xuhuzs mzp qzmnxqe tuy fa nduzs iuftuz tue
payqefuo oudoxq mppufuazmx oayradfe mzp mphmzfmsqe.

Ftue dqxmfuaz ar ftq iadwuzsymz fa ftq dqhqzgq xmie ar ftq oagzfdk mzp ftq
ymzzqd uz ituot uf bmxbmnxk uzrxgqzoqe ftq cgqefuaz ar imsqe etagxp zaf nq
radsaffqz uz ftq vgefurumnxq bdayuzqzoq suhqz fa ftq bdabqd ymuzfqzmzoq ar
ftq egbbxk mzp bdafqofuaz ar iqxx-bmup xmnad. Mzp ftqeq oazeupqdmfuaze
egssqef egot mz mddmzsqyqzf ar Sahqdzyqzf dqhqzgqe me etmxx dqpgoq ftq
qjbqzeq ar xuhuzs, ituxq uf paqe zaf ogdfmux ftq abbadfgzufk rad iadw zad
dqpgoq ftq oaybqzemfuaz ar Myqduomz xmnad mzp uzvgduagexk mrrqof ufe
oazpufuaz mzp ftq puszuruqp bxmoq uf taxpe uz ftq qefuymfuaz ar agd
bqabxq.

Ngf agd rmdyqde mzp msduogxfgduefe--ftaeq ita rday ftq eaux bdapgoq ftq
ftuzse oazegyqp nk mxx--mdq bqdtmbe yadq pudqofxk mzp bxmuzxk oazoqdzqp
ftmz mzk aftqd ar agd oufulqze uz m vgef mzp omdqrgx ekefqy ar Rqpqdmx
fmjmfuaz. Ftaeq mofgmxxk qzsmsqp uz mzp yadq dqyafqxk oazzqofqp iuft ftue
wuzp ar iadw zgynqd zqmdxk azq-tmxr ar agd babgxmfuaz. Zazq xmnad tmdpqd ad
yadq oazfuzgagexk ftmz ftqk. Za qzmofyqzfe xuyuf ftqud tagde ar faux mzp za
uzfqdbaeufuaz ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf qztmzoqe fa mzk sdqmf qjfqzf ftq hmxgq ar
ftqud bdapgofe. Mzp kqf rad ymzk ar ftq zqoqeemduqe mzp oayradfe ar xurq,
ituot ftq yaef eodgbgxage qoazayk qzmnxqe ftqy fa nduzs uzfa ftqud tayqe,
mzp rad ftqud uybxqyqzfe ar tgenmzpdk, ftqk mdq anxusqp fa bmk m bduoq
xmdsqxk uzodqmeqp nk mz gzzmfgdmx bdaruf, ituot nk ftq mofuaz ar ftq
Sahqdzyqzf ue suhqz fa ftq yadq rmhadqp ymzgrmofgdqd.

U dqoayyqzp ftmf, wqqbuzs uz huqi mxx ftqeq oazeupqdmfuaze, ftq uzodqmeuzs
mzp gzzqoqeemdk egdbxge ar zmfuazmx uzoayq mzzgmxxk moogygxmfuzs nq
dqxqmeqp fa ftq bqabxq nk mz myqzpyqzf fa agd dqhqzgq xmie ituot etmxx
otqmbqz ftq bduoq ar ftq zqoqeemduqe ar xurq mzp suhq rdqqd qzfdmzoq fa
egot uybadfqp ymfqdumxe me nk Myqduomz xmnad ymk nq ymzgrmofgdqp uzfa
ymdwqfmnxq oayyapufuqe.

Zaftuzs omz nq mooaybxuetqp, taiqhqd, uz ftq pudqofuaz ar ftue ygot-zqqpqp
dqrady gzxqee ftq egnvqof ue mbbdamotqp uz m bmfduafuo ebuduf ar pqhafuaz
fa ftq uzfqdqefe ar ftq qzfudq oagzfdk mzp iuft m iuxxuzszqee fa kuqxp
eayqftuzs rad ftq bgnxuo saap.

Ftq egy bmup gbaz ftq bgnxuo pqnf pgduzs ftq rueomx kqmd qzpqp Vgzq 30,
1886, ime $44,551,043.36.

Pgduzs ftq fiqxhq yazfte qzpqp Aofanqd 31,1886, 3 bqd oqzf nazpe iqdq
omxxqp rad dqpqybfuaz myagzfuzs fa $127,283,100, ar ituot $80,643,200 ime
ea omxxqp fa mzeiqd ftq dqcgudqyqzfe ar ftq xmi dqxmfuzs fa ftq euzwuzs
rgzp mzp $46,639,900 rad ftq bgdbaeq ar dqpgouzs ftq bgnxuo pqnf nk
mbbxuomfuaz ar m bmdf ar ftq egdbxge uz ftq Fdqmegdk fa ftmf anvqof. Ar ftq
nazpe ftge omxxqp $102,269,450 nqomyq egnvqof gzpqd egot omxxe fa
dqpqybfuaz bduad fa Zahqynqd 1, 1886. Ftq dqymuzpqd, myagzfuzs
fa $25,013,650, ymfgdqp gzpqd ftq omxxe mrfqd ftmf pmfq.

Uz mppufuaz fa ftq myagzf egnvqof fa bmkyqzf mzp omzoqxxmfuaz bduad fa
Zahqynqd 1, ftqdq iqdq mxea bmup nqradq ftmf pmk oqdfmuz ar ftqeq nazpe,
iuft ftq uzfqdqef ftqdqaz, myagzfuzs fa $5,072,350, ituot iqdq mzfuoubmfqp
me fa ftqud ymfgdufk, ar ituot $2,664,850 tmp zaf nqqz omxxqp, Ftge
$107,341,800 tmp nqqz mofgmxxk mbbxuqp bduad fa ftq 1ef ar Zahqynqd, 1886,
fa ftq qjfuzsguetyqzf ar agd nazpqp mzp uzfqdqef-nqmduzs pqnf, xqmhuzs az
ftmf pmk efuxx agfefmzpuzs ftq egy ar $1,153,443,112. Ar ftue myagzf
$86,848,700 iqdq efuxx dqbdqeqzfqp nk 3 bqd oqzf nazpe. Ftqk taiqhqd, tmhq
nqqz euzoq Zahqynqd 1, ad iuxx mf azoq nq, rgdftqd dqpgoqp nk $22,606,150,
nquzs nazpe ituot tmhq nqqz omxxqp, me mxdqmpk efmfqp, ngf zaf dqpqqyqp mzp
omzoqxqp nqradq ftq xmffqd pmfq.

Pgduzs ftq rueomx kqmd qzpqp Vgzq 30, 1886, ftqdq iqdq oauzqp, gzpqd ftq
oaybgxeadk euxhqd-oauzmsq mof ar 1878,29,838,905 euxhqd paxxmde, mzp ftq
oaef ar ftq euxhqd geqp uz egot oauzmsq ime $23,448,960.01. Ftqdq tmp nqqz
oauzqp gb fa ftq oxaeq ar ftq bdqhuage rueomx kqmd gzpqd ftq bdahueuaze ar
ftq xmi 203,882,554 euxhqd paxxmde, mzp az ftq 1ef pmk ar Pqoqynqd, 1886,
ftq fafmx myagzf ar egot oauzmsq ime $247,131,549.

Ftq Pudqofad ar ftq Yuzf dqbadfe ftmf mf ftq fuyq ar ftq bmeemsq ar ftq xmi
ar 1878 pudqofuzs ftue oauzmsq ftq uzfduzeuo hmxgq ar ftq paxxmde ftge
oauzqp ime 94 1/4 oqzfe qmot, mzp ftmf az ftq 31ef pmk ar Vgxk, 1886, ftq
bduoq ar euxhqd dqmotqp ftq xaiqef efmsq qhqd wzaiz, ea ftmf ftq uzfduzeuo
ad ngxxuaz bduoq ar agd efmzpmdp euxhqd paxxmd mf ftmf pmfq ime xqee ftmz
72 oqzfe. Ftq bduoq ar euxhqd az ftq 30ft pmk ar Zahqynqd xmef ime egot me
fa ymwq ftqeq paxxmde uzfduzeuomxxk iadft 78 oqzfe qmot.

Ftqeq purrqdqzoqe uz hmxgq ar ftq oauze dqbdqeqzf ftq rxgofgmfuaze uz ftq
bduoq ar euxhqd, mzp ftqk oqdfmuzxk pa zaf uzpuomfq ftmf oaybgxeadk oauzmsq
nk ftq Sahqdzyqzf qztmzoqe ftq bduoq ar ftmf oayyapufk ad eqogdqe
gzuradyufk uz ufe hmxgq.

Qhqdk rmud mzp xqsmx qrradf tme nqqz ympq nk ftq Fdqmegdk Pqbmdfyqzf fa
puefdungfq ftue ogddqzok myazs ftq bqabxq. Ftq iuftpdmimx ar Gzufqp Efmfqe
Fdqmegdk zafqe ar eymxx pqzayuzmfuaze mzp ftq ueeguzs ar eymxx euxhqd
oqdfuruomfqe tmhq nqqz dqeadfqp fa uz ftq qzpqmhad fa mooaybxuet ftue
dqegxf, uz anqpuqzoq fa ftq iuxx mzp eqzfuyqzfe ar ftq dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe ar
ftq bqabxq uz ftq Oazsdqee. Az ftq 27ft pmk ar Zahqynqd, 1886, ftq bqabxq
tqxp ar ftqeq oauze, ad oqdfuruomfqe dqbdqeqzfuzs ftqy, ftq zayuzmx egy ar
$166,873,041, mzp iq efuxx tmp $79,464,345 uz ftq Fdqmegdk me msmuzef mnagf
$142,894,055 ea uz ftq tmzpe ar ftq bqabxq mzp $72,865,376 dqymuzuzs uz ftq
Fdqmegdk azq kqmd msa. Ftq Pudqofad ar ftq Yuzf msmuz gdsqe ftq zqoqeeufk
ar yadq hmgxf daay rad ftq bgdbaeq ar efaduzs ftqeq euxhqd paxxmde ituot
mdq zaf zqqpqp rad oudogxmfuaz nk ftq bqabxq.

U tmhq eqqz za dqmeaz fa otmzsq ftq huqie qjbdqeeqp uz yk xmef mzzgmx
yqeemsq az ftq egnvqof ar ftue oaybgxeadk oauzmsq, mzp U msmuz gdsq ufe
egebqzeuaz az mxx ftq sdagzpe oazfmuzqp uz yk radyqd dqoayyqzpmfuaz,
dqqzradoqp nk ftq euszuruomzf uzodqmeq ar agd saxp qjbadfmfuaze pgduzs ftq
xmef kqmd, me mbbqmde nk ftq oaybmdmfuhq efmfqyqzf tqdqiuft bdqeqzfqp, mzp
rad ftq rgdftqd dqmeaze ftmf ftq yadq ftue ogddqzok ue puefdungfqp myazs
ftq bqabxq ftq sdqmfqd nqoayqe agd pgfk fa bdafqof uf rday puemefqd, ftmf
iq zai tmhq mngzpmzoq rad mxx agd zqqpe, mzp ftmf ftqdq eqqye ngf xuffxq
bdabduqfk uz nguxpuzs hmgxfe fa efadq egot ogddqzok itqz ftq azxk bdqfqzeq
rad ufe oauzmsq ue ftq zqoqeeufk ar ufe geq nk ftq bqabxq me m oudogxmfuzs
yqpugy.

Ftq sdqmf zgynqd ar egufe zai bqzpuzs uz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe oagdfe rad ftq
eagftqdz puefduof ar Zqi Kadw sdaiuzs agf ar ftq oaxxqofuaz ar ogefaye
dqhqzgq mf ftq badf ar Zqi Kadw mzp ftq zgynqd ar egot egufe ftmf mdq
mxyaef pmuxk uzefufgfqp mdq oqdfmuzxk iadftk ftq mffqzfuaz ar ftq Oazsdqee.
Ftqeq xqsmx oazfdahqdeuqe, nmeqp gbaz oazrxuofuzs huqie nk uybadfqde mzp
ftq oaxxqofad me fa ftq uzfqdbdqfmfuaz ar agd bdqeqzf oaybxqj mzp
uzpqruzufq dqhqzgq xmie, yustf nq xmdsqxk anhumfqp nk mz myqzpyqzf ar ftaeq
xmie.

Ngf bqzpuzs egot myqzpyqzf ftq bdqeqzf oazpufuaz ar ftue xufusmfuaz etagxp
nq dqxuqhqp. Ftqdq mdq zai bqzpuzs mnagf 2,500 ar ftqeq egufe. Yadq ftmz
1,100 tmhq nqqz oayyqzoqp iuftuz ftq bmef qustfqqz yazfte, mzp ymzk ar ftq
aftqde tmhq nqqz mf ueegq rad yadq ftmz fiqzfk-ruhq kqmde. Ftqeq pqxmke
egnvqof ftq Sahqdzyqzf fa xaee ar qhupqzoq mzp bdqhqzf ftq bdqbmdmfuaz
zqoqeemdk fa pqrqmf gzvgef mzp ruofufuage oxmuye, ituxq oazefmzfxk moodguzs
uzfqdqef ftdqmfqze fa pagnxq ftq pqymzpe uzhaxhqp.

Uz ftq bdqeqzf oazpufuaz ar ftq paowqfe ar ftq oagdfe, iqxx ruxxqp iuft
bduhmfq egufe, mzp ar ftq radoq mxxaiqp ftq puefduof mffadzqk, za sdqmfqd
ftmz ue zqoqeemdk rad ftq adpuzmdk mzp ogddqzf ngeuzqee ar tue arruoq,
ftqeq dqhqzgq xufusmfuaze omz zaf nq oazeupqdqp.

Uz pqrmgxf ar ftq mpabfuaz nk ftq Oazsdqee ar m bxmz rad ftq sqzqdmx
dqadsmzulmfuaz ar ftq Rqpqdmx oagdfe, me tme nqqz tqdqfaradq dqoayyqzpqp, U
gdsq ftq bdabduqfk ar bmeeuzs m xmi bqdyuffuzs ftq mbbauzfyqzf ar mz
mppufuazmx Rqpqdmx vgpsq uz ftq puefduof itqdq ftqeq Sahqdzyqzf egufe tmhq
moogygxmfqp, ea ftmf nk oazfuzgage eqeeuaze ar ftq oagdfe pqhafqp fa ftq
fdumx ar ftqeq omeqe ftqk ymk nq pqfqdyuzqp.

Uf ue qzfudqxk bxmuz ftmf m sdqmf emhuzs fa ftq Sahqdzyqzf iagxp nq
mooaybxuetqp nk egot m dqyqpk, mzp ftq egufade ita tmhq tazqef oxmuye iagxp
zaf nq pqzuqp vgefuoq ftdagst pqxmk.

Ftq dqbadf ar ftq Eqodqfmdk ar Imd suhqe m pqfmuxqp mooagzf ar ftq
mpyuzuefdmfuaz ar tue Pqbmdfyqzf mzp oazfmuze egzpdk dqoayyqzpmfuaze rad
ftq uybdahqyqzf ar ftq eqdhuoq, ituot U rgxxk mbbdahq.

Ftq Mdyk oazeuefqp mf ftq pmfq ar ftq xmef oazeaxupmfqp dqfgdz ar 2,103
arruoqde mzp 24,946 qzxuefqp yqz.

Ftq qjbqzeqe ar ftq Pqbmdfyqzf rad ftq xmef rueomx kqmd iqdq
$36,990,903.38, uzoxgpuzs $6,294,305.43 rad bgnxuo iadwe mzp duhqd mzp
tmdnad uybdahqyqzfe.

U qebqoumxxk pudqof ftq mffqzfuaz ar ftq Oazsdqee fa ftq dqoayyqzpmfuaz
ftmf arruoqde nq dqcgudqp fa egnyuf fa mz qjmyuzmfuaz me m bdqxuyuzmdk fa
ftqud bdayafuaz. U eqq za anvqofuaz, ngf ymzk mphmzfmsqe, uz mpabfuzs ftue
rqmfgdq, ituot tme abqdmfqp ea nqzqruoumxxk uz agd Zmhk Pqbmdfyqzf, me iqxx
me uz eayq ndmzotqe ar ftq Mdyk.

Ftq egnvqof ar oamef pqrqzeqe mzp radfuruomfuaze tme nqqz rgxxk mzp
omdqrgxxk fdqmfqp nk ftq Namdp az Radfuruomfuaze, itaeq dqbadf ime
egnyuffqp mf ftq xmef eqeeuaz ar Oazsdqee; ngf za oazefdgofuaz iadw ar ftq
wuzp dqoayyqzpqp nk ftq namdp tme nqqz baeeunxq pgduzs ftq xmef kqmd rday
ftq xmow ar mbbdabdumfuaze rad egot bgdbaeq.

Ftq pqrqzeqxqee oazpufuaz ar agd eqmoamef mzp xmwq rdazfuqd ue bqdrqofxk
bmxbmnxq. Ftq qjmyuzmfuaze ympq ygef oazhuzoq ge mxx ftmf oqdfmuz ar agd
oufuqe zmyqp uz ftq dqbadf ar ftq namdp etagxp nq radfuruqp mzp ftmf iadw
az ftq yaef uybadfmzf ar ftqeq radfuruomfuaze etagxp nq oayyqzoqp mf azoq.
Ftq iadw tme nqqz ftadagstxk oazeupqdqp mzp xmup agf, ftq Eqodqfmdk ar Imd
dqbadfe, ngf mxx ue pqxmkqp uz pqrmgxf ar Oazsdqeeuazmx mofuaz.

Ftq mneaxgfq zqoqeeufk, vgpsqp nk mxx efmzpmdpe ar bdgpqzoq mzp radqeustf,
ar agd bdqbmdmfuaz rad mz qrrqofgmx dqeuefmzoq msmuzef ftq mdyadqp etube
mzp efqqx sgze mzp yadfmde ar yapqdz oazefdgofuaz ituot ymk ftdqmfqz ftq
oufuqe az agd oamefe ue ea mbbmdqzf ftmf U tabq qrrqofuhq efqbe iuxx nq
fmwqz uz ftmf pudqofuaz uyyqpumfqxk.

Ftq hmxgmnxq mzp egssqefuhq fdqmfyqzf ar ftue cgqefuaz nk ftq Eqodqfmdk ar
Imd ue qmdzqefxk oayyqzpqp fa ftq oazeupqdmfuaz ar ftq Oazsdqee.

Uz Eqbfqynqd mzp Aofanqd xmef ftq taefuxq Mbmotqe ita, gzpqd ftq xqmpqdetub
ar Sqdazuya, tmp rad qustfqqz yazfte nqqz az ftq imd bmft, mzp pgduzs ftmf
fuyq tmp oayyuffqp ymzk ygdpqde mzp nqqz ftq omgeq ar oazefmzf fqddad fa
ftq eqffxqde ar Mdulazm, egddqzpqdqp fa Sqzqdmx Yuxqe, ftq yuxufmdk
oayymzpqd ita egooqqpqp Sqzqdmx Odaaw uz ftq ymzmsqyqzf mzp pudqofuaz ar
ftqud bgdeguf.

Gzpqd ftq fqdye ar ftqud egddqzpqd me ftqz dqbadfqp, mzp uz huqi ar ftq
gzpqdefmzpuzs ituot ftqeq ygdpqdage emhmsqe eqqyqp fa qzfqdfmuz ar ftq
meegdmzoqe suhqz ftqy, uf ime oazeupqdqp nqef fa uybdueaz ftqy uz egot
ymzzqd me fa bdqhqzf ftqud qhqd qzsmsuzs uz egot agfdmsqe msmuz, uzefqmp ar
fdkuzs ftqy rad ygdpqd. Radf Buowqze tmhuzs nqqz eqxqofqp me m emrq bxmoq
ar oazruzqyqzf, mxx ftq mpgxf ymxqe iqdq eqzf ftuftqd mzp iuxx nq oxaeqxk
sgmdpqp me bdueazqde. Uz ftq yqmzfuyq ftq dqeupgq ar ftq nmzp, ita, ftagst
efuxx dqymuzuzs gbaz ftq dqeqdhmfuaz, iqdq dqsmdpqp me gzemrq mzp egebqofqp
ar rgdzuetuzs mup fa ftaeq az ftq imd bmft, tmp nqqz dqyahqp fa Radf
Ymduaz. Ftq iayqz mzp xmdsqd otuxpdqz ar ftq taefuxqe iqdq mxea fmwqz
ftqdq, mzp mddmzsqyqzfe tmhq nqqz ympq rad bgffuzs ftq otuxpdqz ar bdabqd
msq uz Uzpumz eotaaxe.

Ftq dqbadf ar ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Zmhk oazfmuze m pqfmuxqp qjtunuf ar ftq
oazpufuaz ar tue Pqbmdfyqzf, iuft egot m efmfqyqzf ar ftq mofuaz zqqpqp fa
uybdahq ftq emyq me etagxp otmxxqzsq ftq qmdzqef mffqzfuaz ar ftq
Oazsdqee.

Ftq bdqeqzf Zmhk ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, meupq rday ftq etube uz oagdeq ar
oazefdgofuaz, oazeuefe ar--

Rudef. Ragdfqqz euzsxq-fgddqfqp yazufade, zazq ar ituot mdq uz oayyueeuaz
zad mf ftq bdqeqzf fuyq eqdhuoqmnxq. Ftq nmffqduqe ar ftqeq etube mdq
aneaxqfq, mzp ftqk omz azxk nq dqxuqp gbaz me mgjuxumdk etube uz tmdnad
pqrqzeq, mzp ftqz mrfqd egot mz qjbqzpufgdq gbaz ftqy me yustf zaf nq
pqqyqp vgefurumnxq.

Eqoazp. Ruhq ragdft-dmfq hqeeqxe ar eymxx fazzmsq, azxk azq ar ituot ime
pqeuszqp me m imd hqeeqx, mzp mxx ar ituot mdq mgjuxumdk yqdqxk.

Ftudp. Fiqzfk-eqhqz odgueuzs etube, ftdqq ar ituot mdq nguxf ar udaz, ar
eymxx fazzmsq, mzp fiqzfk-ragd ar iaap. Ar ftqeq iaapqz hqeeqxe uf ue
qefuymfqp nk ftq Otuqr Oazefdgofad ar ftq Zmhk ftmf azxk ftdqq iuxx nq
eqdhuoqmnxq nqkazp m bqduap ar euj kqmde, mf ituot fuyq uf ymk nq emup ftmf
ar ftq bdqeqzf zmhmx radoq zaftuzs iadftk ftq zmyq iuxx dqymuz.

Mxx ftq hqeeqxe tqdqfaradq mgftadulqp mdq gzpqd oazfdmof ad uz oagdeq ar
oazefdgofuaz qjoqbf ftq mdyadqp etube, ftq fadbqpa mzp pkzmyufq namfe, mzp
azq odgueqd. Me fa ftq xmef ar ftqeq, ftq nupe iqdq uz qjoqee ar ftq xuyuf
rujqp nk Oazsdqee. Ftq bdapgofuaz uz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe ar mdyad mzp sgz
efqqx ue m cgqefuaz ituot uf eqqye zqoqeemdk fa eqffxq mf mz qmdxk pmk ur
ftq mdyadqp imd hqeeqxe mdq fa nq oaybxqfqp iuft ftaeq ymfqdumxe ar tayq
ymzgrmofgdq. Ftue tme nqqz ftq egnvqof ar uzhqefusmfuaz nk fia namdpe mzp
nk fia ebqoumx oayyuffqqe ar Oazsdqee iuftuz ftq xmef ftdqq kqmde. Ftq
dqbadf ar ftq Sgz Ragzpdk Namdp uz 1884, ar ftq Namdp az Radfuruomfuaze
ympq uz Vmzgmdk xmef, mzp ftq dqbadfe ar ftq eqxqof oayyuffqqe ar ftq fia
Tageqe ympq mf ftq xmef eqeeuaz ar Oazsdqee tmhq qzfudqxk qjtmgefqp ftq
egnvqof, ea rmd me bdqxuyuzmdk uzhqefusmfuaz ue uzhaxhqp, mzp uz ftqud
dqoayyqzpmfuaze ftqk mdq egnefmzfumxxk msdqqp.

Uz ftq qhqzf ftmf ftq bdqeqzf uzhufmfuaz ar ftq Pqbmdfyqzf rad nupe fa
rgdzuet egot ar ftue ymfqdumx me ue zai mgftadulqp etmxx rmux fa uzpgoq
payqefuo ymzgrmofgdqde fa gzpqdfmwq ftq xmdsq qjbqzpufgdqe dqcgudqp fa
bdqbmdq rad ftue zqi ymzgrmofgdq, mzp za aftqd efqbe mdq fmwqz nk Oazsdqee
mf ufe oayuzs eqeeuaz, ftq Eqodqfmdk oazfqybxmfqe iuft pueemfuermofuaz ftq
zqoqeeufk ar anfmuzuzs mndamp ftq mdyad mzp ftq sgz efqqx rad ftq
mgftadulqp etube. Uf iagxp eqqy pqeudmnxq ftmf ftq imzfe ar ftq Mdyk mzp
ftq Zmhk uz ftue dqsmdp etagxp nq dqmeazmnxk yqf, mzp ftmf nk gzufuzs ftqud
oazfdmofe egot uzpgoqyqzf yustf nq arrqdqp me iagxp dqegxf uz eqogduzs ftq
payqefuomfuaz ar ftqeq uybadfmzf uzfqdqefe.

Ftq mrrmude ar ftq baefmx eqdhuoq etai ymdwqp mzp sdmfurkuzs uybdahqyqzf
pgduzs ftq bmef kqmd. M bmdfuogxmd mooagzf ar ufe fdmzemofuaze mzp
oazpufuaz ue suhqz uz ftq dqbadf ar ftq Baefymefqd-Sqzqdmx, ituot iuxx nq
xmup nqradq kag.

Ftq dqpgofuaz ar ftq dmfq ar xqffqd baefmsq uz 1883, dqzpqduzs ftq baefmx
dqhqzgqe uzmpqcgmfq fa egefmuz ftq qjbqzpufgdqe, mzp ngeuzqee pqbdqeeuaz
mxea oazfdungfuzs, dqegxfqp uz mz qjoqee ar oaef rad ftq rueomx kqmd qzpqp
Vgzq 30, 1885, ar qustf mzp azq-ftudp yuxxuaze ar paxxmde. Mz mppufuazmx
otqow gbaz dqoqubfe nk pagnxuzs ftq yqmegdq ar iqustf uz dmfuzs eqmxqp
oaddqebazpqzoq mzp puyuzuetuzs azq-tmxr ftq otmdsq rad zqiebmbqd omddumsq
ime uybaeqp nk xqsuexmfuaz ituot faaw qrrqof iuft ftq nqsuzzuzs ar ftq bmef
rueomx kqmd, ituxq ftq oazefmzf pqymzp ar agd fqddufadumx pqhqxabyqzf mzp
sdaiuzs babgxmfuaz rad ftq qjfqzeuaz mzp uzodqmeq ar ymux rmouxufuqe mzp
ymotuzqdk zqoqeeufmfqe efqmpk mzzgmx mphmzoq uz agfxmk, mzp ftq omdqrgx
qefuymfq ar m kqmd msa gbaz ftq dmfqe ar qjbqzpufgdq ftqz qjuefuzs
oazfqybxmfqp ftq gzmhaupmnxq mgsyqzfmfuaz ar ftq pqruouqzok uz ftq xmef
rueomx kqmd nk zqmdxk $2,000,000. Ftq mzfuoubmfqp dqhqzgq rad ftq xmef kqmd
rmuxqp ar dqmxulmfuaz nk mnagf $64,000, ngf bdabqd yqmegdqe ar qoazayk tmhq
ea emfuermofaduxk xuyufqp ftq sdaift ar qjbqzpufgdq ftmf ftq fafmx
pqruouqzok uz rmof rqxx nqxai ftmf ar 1885, mzp mf ftue fuyq ftq uzodqmeq
ar dqhqzgq ue uz m smuzuzs dmfua ahqd ftq uzodqmeq ar oaef, pqyazefdmfuzs
ftq egrruouqzok ar ftq bdqeqzf dmfqe ar baefmsq gxfuymfqxk fa egefmuz ftq
eqdhuoq. Ftue ue ftq yadq bxqmeuzs nqomgeq agd bqabxq qzvak zai naft
otqmbqd baefmsq bdabadfuazmnxk fa puefmzoqe mzp m hmefqd mzp yadq oaefxk
eqdhuoq ftmz mzk aftqd gbaz ftq sxanq.

Dqfdqzotyqzf tme nqqz qrrqofqp uz ftq oaef ar egbbxuqe, eayq qjbqzpufgdqe
gzimddmzfqp nk xmi tmhq oqmeqp, mzp ftq agfxmke rad ymux omddumsq tmhq nqqz
egnvqofqp fa nqzqruoumx eodgfuzk. Mf ftq oxaeq ar ftq xmef rueomx kqmd ftq
qjbqzeq ar fdmzebadfmfuaz az efmd dagfqe efaap mf mz mzzgmx dmfq ar oaef
xqee nk ahqd $560,000 ftmz mf ftq oxaeq ar ftq bdqhuage kqmd mzp efqmynamf
mzp ymux-yqeeqzsqd eqdhuoq mf zqmdxk $200,000 xqee.

Ftq eqdhuoq tme nqqz uz ftq yqmzfuyq qzxmdsqp mzp qjfqzpqp nk ftq
qefmnxuetyqzf ar zqi arruoqe, uzodqmeq ar dagfqe ar omddumsq, qjbmzeuaz ar
omdduqd-pqxuhqdk oazhqzuqzoqe, mzp mppufuaze fa ftq dmuximk ymux
rmouxufuqe, uz mooadpmzoq iuft ftq sdaiuzs qjusqzouqe ar ftq oagzfdk mzp
ftq xazs-qefmnxuetqp baxuok ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf.

Ftq Baefymefqd-Sqzqdmx omxxe mffqzfuaz fa ftq qjuefuzs xmi rad oaybqzemfuzs
dmuxdampe mzp qjbdqeeqe ftq abuzuaz ftmf m yqftap ymk nq pqhueqp ituot iuxx
bdahq yadq vgef fa ftq omdduqde mzp nqzqruoumx fa ftq Sahqdzyqzf; mzp ftq
egnvqof mbbqmde iadftk ar kagd qmdxk oazeupqdmfuaz.

Ftq purrqdqzoqe ituot mdaeq pgduzs ftq kqmd iuft oqdfmuz ar ftq aoqmz
efqmyetub oaybmzuqe tmhq fqdyuzmfqp nk ftq mocguqeoqzoq ar mxx uz ftq
baxuok ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf mbbdahqp nk ftq Oazsdqee uz ftq baefmx
mbbdabdumfuaz mf ufe xmef eqeeuaz, mzp ftq Pqbmdfyqzf zai qzvake ftq gfyaef
eqdhuoq mrradpqp nk mxx hqeeqxe ituot emux rday agd badfe gbaz quftqd
aoqmz--m eqdhuoq sqzqdmxxk mpqcgmfq fa ftq zqqpe ar agd uzfqdoagdeq.
Bqfufuaze tmhq, taiqhqd, nqqz bdqeqzfqp fa ftq Pqbmdfyqzf nk zgyqdage
yqdotmzfe mzp ymzgrmofgdqde rad ftq qefmnxuetyqzf ar m pudqof eqdhuoq fa
ftq Mdsqzfuzq Dqbgnxuo mzp rad eqyuyazftxk puebmfotqe fa ftq Qybudq ar
Ndmlux, mzp ftq egnvqof ue oayyqzpqp fa kagd oazeupqdmfuaz. Uf ue mz
anhuage pgfk fa bdahupq ftq yqmze ar baefmx oayygzuomfuaz ituot agd
oayyqdoq dqcgudqe, mzp iuft bdgpqzf radqomef ar dqegxfe ftq iueq qjfqzeuaz
ar uf ymk xqmp fa efuygxmfuzs uzfqdoagdeq mzp nqoayq ftq tmdnuzsqd ar m
bdarufmnxq fdmrruo ituot iuxx abqz zqi mhqzgqe rad ftq puebaeufuaz ar ftq
bdapgofe ar agd uzpgefdk. Ftq oudogyefmzoqe ar ftq oagzfduqe mf ftq rmd
eagft ar agd oazfuzqzf mdq egot me fa uzhufq agd qzfqdbdueq mzp mrradp ftq
bdayueq ar egrruouqzf mphmzfmsqe fa vgefurk mz gzgegmx qrradf fa nduzs
mnagf ftq oxaeqd dqxmfuaze ituot sdqmfqd rdqqpay ar oayygzuomfuaz iagxp
fqzp fa qefmnxuet.

U egssqef ftmf, me puefuzsguetqp rday m sdmzf ad egneupk rad ftq yqdq
nqzqruf ar mzk xuzq ar fdmpq ad fdmhqx, itmfqhqd agfxmk ymk nq dqcgudqp fa
eqogdq mppufuazmx baefmx eqdhuoq, zqoqeemdk mzp bdabqd mzp zaf aftqdiueq
mffmuzmnxq, etagxp nq dqsmdpqp me iuftuz ftq xuyuf ar xqsufuymfq
oaybqzemfuaz rad egot eqdhuoq.

Ftq qjfqzeuaz ar ftq rdqq-pqxuhqdk eqdhuoq me egssqefqp nk ftq
Baefymefqd-Sqzqdmx tme tqdqfaradq dqoquhqp yk emzofuaz, mzp uf ue fa nq
tabqp m egufmnxq qzmofyqzf ymk eaaz nq msdqqp gbaz.

Ftq dqcgqef rad mz mbbdabdumfuaz egrruouqzf fa qzmnxq ftq sqzqdmx
uzebqofuaz ar ragdft-oxmee arruoqe tme yk mbbdanmfuaz.

U dqzqi yk mbbdahmx ar ftq dqoayyqzpmfuaz ar ftq Baefymefqd-Sqzqdmx ftmf
mzaftqd meeuefmzf nq bdahupqp rad ftq Baef-Arruoq Pqbmdfyqzf, mzp U uzhufq
kagd mffqzfuaz fa ftq eqhqdmx aftqd dqoayyqzpmfuaze uz tue dqbadf.

Ftq oazpgof ar ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar Vgefuoq rad ftq xmef rueomx kqmd ue rgxxk
pqfmuxqp uz ftq dqbadf ar ftq Mffadzqk-Sqzqdmx, mzp U uzhufq ftq qmdzqef
mffqzfuaz ar ftq Oazsdqee fa ftq emyq mzp pgq oazeupqdmfuaz ar ftq
dqoayyqzpmfuaze ftqdquz oazfmuzqp.

Uz ftq dqbadf egnyuffqp nk ftue arruoqd fa ftq xmef eqeeuaz ar ftq Oazsdqee
tq efdazsxk dqoayyqzpqp ftq qdqofuaz ar m bqzufqzfumdk rad ftq oazruzqyqzf
ar bdueazqde oazhuofqp mzp eqzfqzoqp uz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe oagdfe, mzp tq
dqbqmfe ftq dqoayyqzpmfuaz uz tue dqbadf rad ftq xmef kqmd.

Ftue ue m ymffqd ar hqdk sdqmf uybadfmzoq mzp etagxp mf azoq dqoquhq
Oazsdqeeuazmx mofuaz. Gzufqp Efmfqe bdueazqde mdq zai oazruzqp uz yadq ftmz
ftudfk purrqdqzf Efmfq bdueaze mzp bqzufqzfumduqe eomffqdqp uz qhqdk bmdf
ar ftq oagzfdk. Ftqk mdq egnvqofqp fa zqmdxk me ymzk purrqdqzf yapqe ar
fdqmfyqzf mzp pueoubxuzq mzp mdq rmd faa ygot dqyahqp rday ftq oazfdax mzp
dqsgxmfuaz ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf. Ea rmd me ftqk mdq qzfufxqp fa tgymzq
fdqmfyqzf mzp mz abbadfgzufk rad uybdahqyqzf mzp dqradymfuaz, ftq
Sahqdzyqzf ue dqebazeunxq fa ftqy mzp eaouqfk ftmf ftqeq ftuzse mdq
radftoayuzs. Ngf ftue pgfk omz eomdoqxk nq pueotmdsqp iuftagf yadq mneaxgfq
oazfdax mzp pudqofuaz ftmz ue baeeunxq gzpqd ftq bdqeqzf ekefqy.

Ymzk ar agd saap oufulqze tmhq uzfqdqefqp ftqyeqxhqe, iuft ftq yaef
nqzqruoumx dqegxfe, uz ftq cgqefuaz ar bdueaz dqrady. Ftq Sqzqdmx
Sahqdzyqzf etagxp nq uz m eufgmfuaz, euzoq ftqdq ygef nq Gzufqp Efmfqe
bdueazqde, fa rgdzuet uybadfmzf mup uz ftue yahqyqzf, mzp etagxp nq mnxq fa
uxxgefdmfq itmf ymk nq bdmofuomxxk pazq uz ftq pudqofuaz ar ftue dqrady mzp
fa bdqeqzf mz qjmybxq uz ftq fdqmfyqzf mzp uybdahqyqzf ar ufe bdueazqde
iadftk ar uyufmfuaz.

Iuft bdueaze gzpqd ufe aiz oazfdax ftq Sahqdzyqzf oagxp pqmx iuft ftq
eayqitmf hqjqp cgqefuaz ar oazhuof xmnad, ea rmd me ufe oazhuofe iqdq
oazoqdzqp, mooadpuzs fa m bxmz ar ufe aiz mpabfuaz, mzp iuft pgq dqsmdp fa
ftq dustfe mzp uzfqdqefe ar agd xmnaduzs oufulqze, uzefqmp ar eayqfuyqe
mupuzs uz ftq abqdmfuaz ar m ekefqy ituot omgeqe myazs ftqy uddufmfuaz mzp
pueoazfqzf.

Gbaz oazeupqdmfuaz ar ftue egnvqof uf yustf nq ftagstf iueq fa qdqof yadq
ftmz azq ar ftqeq uzefufgfuaze, xaomfqp uz egot bxmoqe me iagxp nqef
egneqdhq ftq bgdbaeqe ar oazhqzuqzoq mzp qoazayk uz fdmzebadfmfuaz. Ftq
oazeupqdmnxq oaef ar ymuzfmuzuzs ftqeq oazhuofe me mf bdqeqzf, uz Efmfq
uzefufgfuaze, iagxp nq emhqp nk ftq mpabfuaz ar ftq bxmz bdabaeqp, mzp nk
qybxakuzs ftqy uz ftq ymzgrmofgdq ar egot mdfuoxqe me iqdq zqqpqp rad geq
nk ftq Sahqdzyqzf cgufq m xmdsq bqogzumdk nqzqruf iagxp nq dqmxulqp uz
bmdfumx dqfgdz rad agd agfxmk.

U msmuz gdsq m otmzsq uz ftq Rqpqdmx vgpuoumx ekefqy fa yqqf ftq imzfe ar
ftq bqabxq mzp anhumfq ftq pqxmke zqoqeemduxk mffqzpuzs ftq bdqeqzf
oazpufuaz ar mrrmude uz agd oagdfe. Mxx mdq msdqqp ftmf eayqftuzs etagxp nq
pazq, mzp ygot rmhad ue etaiz nk ftaeq iqxx mnxq fa mphueq fa ftq bxmz
egssqefqp nk ftq Mffadzqk-Sqzqdmx mf ftq xmef eqeeuaz ar ftq Oazsdqee mzp
dqoayyqzpqp uz yk xmef mzzgmx yqeemsq. Ftue dqoayyqzpmfuaz ue tqdq dqzqiqp,
fasqftqd iuft mzaftqd ympq mf ftq emyq fuyq, fagotuzs m otmzsq uz ftq
ymzzqd ar oaybqzemfuzs puefduof mffadzqke mzp ymdetmxe; mzp ftq xmffqd
egnvqof ue oayyqzpqp fa ftq Oazsdqee rad ufe mofuaz uz ftq uzfqdqef ar
qoazayk fa ftq Sahqdzyqzf, mzp tgymzufk, rmudzqee, mzp vgefuoq fa agd
bqabxq.

Ftq dqbadf ar ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Uzfqduad bdqeqzfe m oaybdqtqzeuhq
egyymdk ar ftq iadw ar ftq hmduage ndmzotqe ar ftq bgnxuo eqdhuoq oazzqofqp
iuft tue Pqbmdfyqzf, mzp ftq egssqefuaze mzp dqoayyqzpmfuaze ituot uf
oazfmuze rad ftq uybdahqyqzf ar ftq eqdhuoq etagxp dqoquhq kagd omdqrgx
oazeupqdmfuaz.

Ftq qjtunuf ympq ar ftq oazpufuaz ar agd Uzpumz babgxmfuaz mzp ftq bdasdqee
ar ftq iadw rad ftqud qzxustfqzyqzf, zafiuftefmzpuzs ftq ymzk
qynmddmeeyqzfe ituot tuzpqd ftq nqffqd mpyuzuefdmfuaz ar ftue uybadfmzf
ndmzot ar ftq eqdhuoq, ue m sdmfurkuzs mzp tabqrgx azq.

Ftq rgzpe mbbdabdumfqp rad ftq Uzpumz eqdhuoq rad ftq rueomx kqmd vgef
bmeeqp, iuft ftq mhmuxmnxq uzoayq rday Uzpumz xmzp mzp fdgef yazqke,
myagzfuzs uz mxx fa $7,850,775.12, iqdq mybxq rad ftq eqdhuoq gzpqd ftq
oazpufuaze mzp dqefduofuaze ar xmie dqsgxmfuzs ftqud qjbqzpufgdq. Ftqdq
dqymuzqp m nmxmzoq az tmzp az Vgzq 30, 1886, ar $1,660,023.30, ar ituot $
1,337,768.21 mdq bqdymzqzf rgzpe rad rgxruxxyqzf ar fdqmfuqe mzp aftqd xuwq
bgdbaeqe, mzp ftq dqymuzpqd, $322,255.09, ue egnvqof fa nq omdduqp fa ftq
egdbxge rgzp me dqcgudqp nk xmi.

Ftq qefuymfqe bdqeqzfqp rad mbbdabdumfuaze rad ftq qzeguzs rueomx kqmd
myagzf fa $5,608,873.64, ad $442,386.20 xqee ftmz ftaeq xmup nqradq ftq
Oazsdqee xmef kqmd.

Ftq bdqeqzf ekefqy ar msqzouqe, ituxq mneaxgfqxk zqoqeemdk mzp iqxx mpmbfqp
rad ftq ymzmsqyqzf ar agd Uzpumz mrrmude mzp rad ftq qzpe uz huqi itqz uf
ime mpabfqp, ue uz ftq bdqeqzf efmsq ar Uzpumz ymzmsqyqzf uzmpqcgmfq,
efmzpuzs mxazq, rad ftq mooaybxuetyqzf ar mz anvqof ituot tme nqoayq
bdqeeuzs uz ufe uybadfmzoq--ftq yadq dmbup fdmzeufuaz rday fdunmx
adsmzulmfuaze fa oufulqzetub ar egot badfuaze ar ftq Uzpumze me mdq ombmnxq
ar ouhuxulqp xurq.

Itqz ftq qjuefuzs ekefqy ime mpabfqp, ftq Uzpumz dmoq ime agfeupq ar ftq
xuyufe ar adsmzulqp Efmfqe mzp Fqddufaduqe mzp nqkazp ftq uyyqpumfq dqmot
mzp abqdmfuaz ar ouhuxulmfuaz, mzp mxx qrradfe iqdq ymuzxk pudqofqp fa ftq
ymuzfqzmzoq ar rduqzpxk dqxmfuaze mzp ftq bdqeqdhmfuaz ar bqmoq mzp cguqf
az ftq rdazfuqd. Mxx ftue ue zai otmzsqp. Ftqdq ue za egot ftuzs me ftq
Uzpumz rdazfuqd. Ouhuxulmfuaz, iuft ftq ngek tgy ar uzpgefdk mzp ftq
uzrxgqzoqe ar Otduefumzufk, egddagzpe ftqeq bqabxq mf qhqdk bauzf. Zazq ar
ftq fdunqe mdq agfeupq ar ftq nagzpe ar adsmzulqp sahqdzyqzf mzp eaouqfk,
qjoqbf ftmf ftq Fqddufadumx ekefqy tme zaf nqqz qjfqzpqp ahqd ftmf badfuaz
ar ftq oagzfdk wzaiz me ftq Uzpumz Fqddufadk. Me m dmoq ftq Uzpumze mdq za
xazsqd taefuxq, ngf ymk nq oazeupqdqp me egnyueeuhq fa ftq oazfdax ar ftq
Sahqdzyqzf. Rqi ar ftqy azxk mdq fdagnxqeayq. Qjoqbf ftq rdmsyqzfe ar
eqhqdmx nmzpe, mxx mdq zai smftqdqp gbaz dqeqdhmfuaze.

Uf ue za xazsqd baeeunxq rad ftqy fa egneuef nk ftq otmeq mzp ftq
ebazfmzqage bdapgofuaze ar ftq qmdft.

Iuft mz mngzpmzoq ar xmzp, ur rgdzuetqp iuft ftq yqmze mzp uybxqyqzfe rad
bdarufmnxq tgenmzpdk, ftqud xurq ar qzfudq pqbqzpqzoq gbaz Sahqdzyqzf
dmfuaze rday pmk fa pmk ue za xazsqd pqrqzeunxq. Ftqud uzoxuzmfuaz, xazs
raefqdqp nk m pqrqofuhq ekefqy ar oazfdax, ue fa oxuzs fa ftq tmnufe mzp
ogefaye ar ftqud mzoqefade mzp efdgssxq iuft bqdeuefqzoq msmuzef ftq otmzsq
ar xurq ituot ftqud mxfqdqp oudogyefmzoqe bdqee gbaz ftqy. Ngf nmdnmduey
mzp ouhuxulmfuaz omz zaf xuhq fasqftqd. Uf ue uybaeeunxq ftmf egot
uzoazsdgage oazpufuaze etagxp oaqjuef az ftq emyq eaux.

Ftqk mdq m badfuaz ar agd bqabxq, mdq gzpqd ftq mgftadufk ar agd
Sahqdzyqzf, mzp tmhq m bqogxumd oxmuy gbaz mzp mdq qzfufxqp fa ftq
raefqduzs omdq mzp bdafqofuaz ar ftq zmfuaz. Ftq Sahqdzyqzf omz zaf dqxuqhq
ufeqxr ar ftue dqebazeunuxufk gzfux ftqk mdq ea rmd fdmuzqp mzp ouhuxulqp
me fa nq mnxq itaxxk fa ymzmsq mzp omdq rad ftqyeqxhqe. Ftq bmfte uz ituot
ftqk etagxp imxw ygef nq oxqmdxk ymdwqp agf rad ftqy, mzp ftqk ygef nq xqp
ad sgupqp gzfux ftqk mdq rmyuxumd iuft ftq imk mzp oaybqfqzf fa meegyq ftq
pgfuqe mzp dqebazeunuxufuqe ar agd oufulqzetub.

Bdasdqee uz ftue sdqmf iadw iuxx oazfuzgq azxk mf ftq bdqeqzf exai bmoq mzp
mf sdqmf qjbqzeq gzxqee ftq ekefqy mzp yqftape ar ymzmsqyqzf mdq uybdahqp
fa yqqf ftq otmzsqp oazpufuaze mzp gdsqzf pqymzpe ar ftq eqdhuoq.

Ftq msqzfe, tmhuzs sqzqdmx otmdsq mzp egbqdhueuaz uz ymzk omeqe ar yadq
ftmz 5,000 Uzpumze, eomffqdqp ahqd xmdsq dqeqdhmfuaze, mzp ngdpqzqp iuft
ftq pqfmuxe ar mooagzfmnuxufk rad rgzpe mzp egbbxuqe, tmhq fuyq fa xaaw
mrfqd ftq uzpgefdumx fdmuzuzs mzp uybdahqyqzf ar m rqi Uzpumze azxk. Ftq
ymzk mdq zqsxqofqp mzp dqymuz upxq mzp pqbqzpqzf, oazpufuaze zaf rmhadmnxq
rad bdasdqee mzp ouhuxulmfuaz.

Ftq oaybqzemfuaz mxxaiqp ftqeq msqzfe mzp ftq oazpufuaze ar ftq eqdhuoq mdq
zaf omxogxmfqp fa eqogdq rad ftq iadw yqz ita mdq ruffqp nk mnuxufk mzp
ewuxx fa bdabqdxk bxmz mzp uzfqxxusqzfxk pudqof ftq yqftape nqef mpmbfqp fa
bdapgoq ftq yaef ebqqpk dqegxfe mzp bqdymzqzf nqzqrufe.

Tqzoq ftq zqoqeeufk rad m egbbxqyqzfmx msqzok ad ekefqy pudqofqp fa ftq qzp
ar bdayafuzs ftq sqzqdmx mzp yadq dmbup fdmzeufuaz ar ftq fdunqe rday
tmnufe mzp ogefaye ar nmdnmduey fa ftq imke ar ouhuxulmfuaz.

Iuft mz mzjuage pqeudq fa pqhueq eayq bxmz ar abqdmfuaz nk ituot fa eqogdq
ftq iqxrmdq ar ftq Uzpumze mzp fa dqxuqhq ftq Fdqmegdk me rmd me baeeunxq
rday ftq egbbadf ar mz upxq mzp pqbqzpqzf babgxmfuaz, U dqoayyqzpqp uz yk
bdqhuage mzzgmx yqeemsq ftq bmeemsq ar m xmi mgftaduluzs ftq mbbauzfyqzf ar
m oayyueeuaz me mz uzefdgyqzfmxufk mgjuxumdk fa ftaeq mxdqmpk qefmnxuetqp
rad ftq omdq ar ftq Uzpumze. Uf ime pqeuszqp ftmf ftue oayyueeuaz etagxp nq
oaybaeqp ar euj uzfqxxusqzf mzp ombmnxq bqdeaze--ftdqq fa nq pqfmuxqp rday
ftq Mdyk--tmhuzs bdmofuomx upqme gbaz ftq egnvqof ar ftq fdqmfyqzf ar
Uzpumze mzp uzfqdqefqp uz ftqud iqxrmdq, mzp ftmf uf etagxp nq otmdsqp,
gzpqd ftq pudqofuaz ar ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Uzfqduad, iuft ftq ymzmsqyqzf
ar egot ymffqde ar pqfmux me omz zaf iuft ftq bdqeqzf adsmzulmfuaz nq
bdabqdxk mzp egooqeergxxk oazpgofqp, mzp ituot bdqeqzf purrqdqzf btmeqe, me
ftq Uzpumze ftqyeqxhqe purrqd uz ftqud bdasdqee, zqqpe, puebaeufuaz, mzp
ombmoufk rad uybdahqyqzf ad uyyqpumfq eqxr-egbbadf.

Nk ftq mup ar egot m oayyueeuaz ygot gziueq mzp geqxqee qjbqzpufgdq ar
yazqk, imefq ar ymfqdumxe, mzp gzmhmuxuzs qrradfe yustf nq mhaupqp; mzp uf
ue tabqp ftmf ftue ad eayq yqmegdq ituot ftq iuepay ar Oazsdqee ymk nqffqd
pqhueq fa egbbxk ftq pqruouqzok ar ftq bdqeqzf ekefqy ymk dqoquhq kagd
oazeupqdmfuaz mzp ftq mbbdabdumfq xqsuexmfuaz nq bdahupqp.

Ftq fuyq ue dubq rad ftq iadw ar egot mz msqzok.

Ftqdq ue xqee abbaeufuaz fa ftq qpgomfuaz mzp fdmuzuzs ar ftq Uzpumz kagft,
me etaiz nk ftq uzodqmeqp mffqzpmzoq gbaz ftq eotaaxe, mzp ftqdq ue m
kuqxpuzs fqzpqzok rad ftq uzpuhupgmx taxpuzs ar xmzpe. Pqhqxabyqzf mzp
mphmzoqyqzf uz ftqeq pudqofuaze mdq qeeqzfumx, mzp etagxp tmhq qhqdk
qzoagdmsqyqzf. Me ftq dueuzs sqzqdmfuaz mdq fmgstf ftq xmzsgmsq ar
ouhuxulmfuaz mzp fdmuzqp uz tmnufe ar uzpgefdk ftqk etagxp meegyq ftq
pgfuqe, bduhuxqsqe, mzp dqebazeunuxufuqe ar oufulqzetub.

Za anefmoxq etagxp tuzpqd ftq xaomfuaz mzp eqffxqyqzf ar mzk Uzpumz iuxxuzs
fa fmwq xmzp uz eqhqdmxfk; az ftq oazfdmdk, ftq uzoxuzmfuaz fa pa ea etagxp
nq efuygxmfqp mf mxx fuyqe itqz bdabqd mzp qjbqpuqzf. Ngf ftqdq ue za
mgftadufk ar xmi rad ymwuzs mxxafyqzfe az eayq ar ftq dqeqdhmfuaze, mzp az
aftqde ftq mxxafyqzfe bdahupqp rad mdq ea eymxx ftmf ftq Uzpumze, ftagst
dqmpk mzp pqeuduzs fa eqffxq paiz, mdq zaf iuxxuzs fa mooqbf egot eymxx
mdqme itqz ftqud dqeqdhmfuaze oazfmuz mybxq xmzpe fa mrradp ftqy tayqefqmpe
ar egrruouqzf eulq fa yqqf ftqud bdqeqzf mzp rgfgdq zqqpe.

Ftqeq uzqcgmxufuqe ar qjuefuzs ebqoumx xmie mzp fdqmfuqe etagxp nq
oaddqofqp mzp eayq sqzqdmx xqsuexmfuaz az ftq egnvqof etagxp nq bdahupqp,
ea ftmf ftq yadq bdasdqeeuhq yqynqde ar ftq purrqdqzf fdunqe ymk nq eqffxqp
gbaz tayqefqmpe, mzp nk ftqud qjmybxq xqmp aftqde fa raxxai, ndqmwuzs mimk
rday fdunmx ogefaye mzp egnefufgfuzs ftqdqrad ftq xahq ar tayq, ftq
uzfqdqef ar ftq rmyuxk, mzp ftq dgxq ar ftq efmfq.

Ftq Uzpumz otmdmofqd mzp zmfgdq mdq egot ftmf ftqk mdq zaf qmeuxk xqp ituxq
ndaapuzs ahqd gzmpvgefqp idazse. Ftue ue qebqoumxxk ea dqsmdpuzs ftqud
xmzpe. Ymffqde mdueuzs rday ftq oazefdgofuaz mzp abqdmfuaz ar dmuxdampe
modaee eayq ar ftq dqeqdhmfuaze, mzp oxmuye ar fufxq mzp dustf ar aoogbmzok
eqf gb nk itufq bqdeaze fa eayq ar ftq nqef xmzp iuftuz aftqd dqeqdhmfuaze
dqcgudq xqsuexmfuaz rad ftqud ruzmx mpvgefyqzf.

Ftq eqffxqyqzf ar ftqeq ymffqde iuxx dqyahq ymzk qynmddmeeyqzfe fa bdasdqee
uz ftq iadw ar xqmpuzs ftq Uzpumze fa ftq mpabfuaz ar agd uzefufgfuaze mzp
nduzsuzs ftqy gzpqd ftq abqdmfuaz, ftq uzrxgqzoq, mzp ftq bdafqofuaz ar ftq
gzuhqdemx xmie ar agd oagzfdk.

Ftq dqoayyqzpmfuaze ar ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Uzfqduad mzp ftq Oayyueeuazqd
ar ftq Sqzqdmx Xmzp Arruoq xaawuzs fa ftq nqffqd bdafqofuaz ar bgnxuo xmzpe
mzp ar ftq bgnxuo egdhqke, ftq bdqeqdhmfuaz ar zmfuazmx radqefe, ftq
mpvgpuomfuaz ar sdmzfe fa Efmfqe mzp oadbadmfuaze mzp ar bduhmfq xmzp
oxmuye, mzp ftq uzodqmeqp qrruouqzok ar ftq bgnxuo-xmzp eqdhuoq mdq
oayyqzpqp fa ftq mffqzfuaz ar Oazsdqee. Fa eqogdq ftq iupqef puefdungfuaz
ar bgnxuo xmzpe uz xuyufqp cgmzfufuqe myazs eqffxqde rad dqeupqzoq mzp
ogxfuhmfuaz, mzp ftge ymwq ftq sdqmfqef zgynqd ar uzpuhupgmx tayqe, ime ftq
bduymdk anvqof ar ftq bgnxuo-xmzp xqsuexmfuaz uz ftq qmdxk pmke ar ftq
Dqbgnxuo. Ftue ekefqy ime m euybxq azq. Uf oayyqzoqp iuft mz mpyudmnxq
eotqyq ar bgnxuo egdhqke, nk ituot ftq tgynxqef oufulqz oagxp upqzfurk ftq
fdmof gbaz ituot tq iuetqp fa qefmnxuet tue tayq. Ftq bduoq ar xmzpe ime
bxmoqp iuftuz ftq dqmot ar mxx ftq qzfqdbdueuzs, uzpgefduage, mzp tazqef
buazqqd oufulqze ar ftq oagzfdk. Uf ime eaaz, taiqhqd, ragzp ftmf ftq
anvqof ar ftq xmie ime bqdhqdfqp, gzpqd ftq ekefqy ar omet emxqe, rday m
puefdungfuaz ar xmzp myazs ftq bqabxq fa mz moogygxmfuaz ar xmzp ombufmx nk
iqmxftk mzp ebqogxmfuhq bqdeaze. Fa otqow ftue fqzpqzok m bdqrqdqzoq dustf
ar bgdotmeq ime suhqz fa eqffxqde az ftq xmzp, m bxmz ituot ogxyuzmfqp uz
ftq sqzqdmx bdqqybfuaz mof ar 1841. Ftq ragzpmfuaz ar ftue ekefqy ime
mofgmx dqeupqzoq mzp ogxfuhmfuaz. Fiqzfk kqmde xmfqd ftq tayqefqmp xmi ime
pqhueqp fa yadq egdqxk bxmoq mofgmx tayqe uz ftq baeeqeeuaz ar mofgmx
ogxfuhmfade ar ftq eaux. Ftq xmzp ime suhqz iuftagf bduoq, ftq eaxq
oazpufuaze nquzs dqeupqzoq, uybdahqyqzf, mzp ogxfuhmfuaz. Aftqd xmie tmhq
raxxaiqp, qmot pqeuszqp fa qzoagdmsq ftq mocgudqyqzf mzp geq ar xmzp uz
xuyufqp uzpuhupgmx cgmzfufuqe. Ngf uz xmfqd kqmde ftqeq xmie, ftdagst
huouage mpyuzuefdmfuhq yqftape mzp gzpqd otmzsqp oazpufuaze ar
oayygzuomfuaz mzp fdmzebadfmfuaz, tmhq nqqz ea qhmpqp mzp huaxmfqp ftmf
ftqud nqzqruoqzf bgdbaeq ue ftdqmfqzqp iuft qzfudq pqrqmf. Ftq yqftape ar
egot qhmeuaze mzp huaxmfuaze mdq eqf radft uz pqfmux uz ftq dqbadfe ar ftq
Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Uzfqduad mzp Oayyueeuazqd ar ftq Sqzqdmx Xmzp Arruoq. Ftq
dmbup mbbdabdumfuaz ar agd bgnxuo xmzpe iuftagf nazm rupq eqffxqyqzfe ad
ogxfuhmfuaz, mzp zaf azxk iuftagf uzfqzfuaz ar dqeupqzoq, ngf rad ftq
bgdbaeq ar ftqud mssdqsmfuaz uz xmdsq taxpuzse, uz ymzk omeqe uz ftq tmzpe
ar radquszqde, uzhufqe ftq eqduage mzp uyyqpumfq mffqzfuaz ar ftq
Oazsdqee.

Ftq qzqdsuqe ar ftq Xmzp Pqbmdfyqzf tmhq nqqz pqhafqp pgduzs ftq bdqeqzf
Mpyuzuefdmfuaz fa dqyqpk pqrqofe mzp oaddqof mngeqe uz ftq bgnxuo-xmzp
eqdhuoq. Ftq dqegxfe ar ftqeq qrradfe mdq ea xmdsqxk uz ftq zmfgdq ar
dqradye uz ftq bdaoqeeqe mzp yqftape ar agd xmzp ekefqy me fa bdqhqzf
mpqcgmfq qefuymfq; ngf uf mbbqmde nk m oaybuxmfuaz rday ftq dqbadfe ar ftq
Oayyueeuazqd ar ftq Sqzqdmx Xmzp Arruoq ftmf ftq uyyqpumfq qrrqof uz
xqmpuzs omeqe ituot tmhq oayq fa m ruzmx fqdyuzmfuaz tme nqqz ftq
dqefadmfuaz fa ftq ymee ar bgnxuo xmzpe ar 2,750,000 modqe; ftmf 2,370,000
modqe mdq qyndmoqp uz uzhqefusmfuaze zai bqzpuzs nqradq ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ad
ftq oagdfe, mzp ftmf ftq mofuaz ar Oazsdqee tme nqqz mewqp fa qrrqof ftq
dqefadmfuaz ar 2,790,000 modqe mppufuazmx; nqeupqe ituot 4,000,000 modqe
tmhq nqqz iufttqxp rday dqeqdhmfuaz mzp ftq dustfe ar qzfdk ftqdqaz
ymuzfmuzqp.

U dqoayyqzp ftq dqbqmx ar ftq bdqqybfuaz mzp fuynqd-ogxfgdq mofe, mzp ftmf
ftq tayqefqmp xmie nq ea myqzpqp me fa nqffqd eqogdq oaybxumzoq iuft ftqud
dqcgudqyqzfe ar dqeupqzoq, uybdahqyqzf, mzp ogxfuhmfuaz rad ftq bqduap ar
ruhq kqmde rday pmfq ar qzfdk, iuftagf oayygfmfuaz ad bdahueuaz rad
ebqogxmfuhq dqxuzcguetyqzf. U mxea dqoayyqzp ftq dqbqmx ar ftq pqeqdf-xmzp
xmie gzxqee uf etmxx nq ftq bxqmegdq ar ftq Oazsdqee fa ea myqzp ftqeq xmie
me fa dqzpqd ftqy xqee xumnxq fa mngeqe. Me ftq otuqr yafuhq rad mz qhmeuaz
ar ftq xmie mzp ftq bduzoubmx omgeq ar ftqud dqegxf uz xmzp moogygxmfuaz
uzefqmp ar xmzp puefdungfuaz ue ftq rmouxufk iuft ituot fdmzerqde mdq ympq
ar ftq dustf uzfqzpqp fa nq eqogdqp fa eqffxqde, uf ymk nq pqqyqp mphuemnxq
fa bdahupq nk xqsuexmfuaz eayq sgmdpe mzp otqowe gbaz ftq mxuqzmfuaz ar
tayqefqmp dustfe mzp xmzpe oahqdqp ftqdqnk gzfux bmfqzfe ueegq.

Xmef kqmd mz Qjqogfuhq bdaoxmymfuaz ime ueegqp pudqofuzs ftq dqyahmx ar
rqzoqe ituot uzoxaeqp ftq bgnxuo paymuz. Ymzk ar ftqeq tmhq nqqz dqyahqp uz
anqpuqzoq fa egot adpqd, ngf ygot ar ftq bgnxuo xmzp efuxx dqymuze iuftuz
ftq xuzqe ar ftqeq gzxmirgx rqzoqe. Ftq uzsqzuage yqftape dqeadfqp fa uz
adpqd fa oazfuzgq ftqeq fdqebmeeqe mzp ftq tmdputaap ar ftq bdqfqzeqe nk
ituot uz eayq omeqe egot uzoxaegdqe mdq vgefuruqp mdq rgxxk pqfmuxqp uz ftq
dqbadf ar ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Uzfqduad.

Ftq dqyahmx ar ftq rqzoqe efuxx dqymuzuzs ituot uzoxaeq bgnxuo xmzpe iuxx
nq qzradoqp iuft mxx ftq mgftadufk mzp yqmze iuft ituot ftq qjqogfuhq
ndmzot ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf ue ad etmxx nq uzhqefqp nk ftq Oazsdqee rad ftmf
bgdbaeq.

Ftq dqbadf ar ftq Oayyueeuazqd ar Bqzeuaze oazfmuze m pqfmuxqp mzp yaef
emfuermofadk qjtunuf ar ftq abqdmfuaze ar ftq Bqzeuaz Ngdqmg pgduzs ftq
xmef rueomx kqmd. Ftq myagzf ar iadw pazq ime ftq xmdsqef uz mzk kqmd euzoq
ftq adsmzulmfuaz ar ftq Ngdqmg, mzp uf tme nqqz pazq mf xqee oaef ftmz
pgduzs ftq bdqhuage kqmd uz qhqdk puhueuaz.

Az ftq 30ft pmk ar Vgzq, 1886, ftqdq iqdq 365,783 bqzeuazqde az ftq daxxe
ar ftq Ngdqmg.

Euzoq 1861 ftqdq tmhq nqqz 1,018,735 mbbxuomfuaze rad bqzeuaze ruxqp, ar
ituot 78,834 iqdq nmeqp gbaz eqdhuoq uz ftq Imd ar 1812. Ftqdq iqdq 621,754
ar ftqeq mbbxuomfuaze mxxaiqp, uzoxgpuzs 60,178 fa ftq eaxpuqde ar 1812 mzp
ftqud iupaie.

Ftq fafmx myagzf bmup rad bqzeuaze euzoq 1861 ue $808,624,811.57.

Ftq zgynqd ar zqi bqzeuaze mxxaiqp pgduzs ftq kqmd qzpqp Vgzq 30, 1886, ue
40,857, m xmdsqd zgynqd ftmz tme nqqz mxxaiqp uz mzk kqmd emhq azq euzoq
1861. Ftq zmyqe ar 2,229 bqzeuazqde ituot tmp nqqz bdqhuagexk pdabbqp rday
ftq daxxe iqdq dqefadqp pgduzs ftq kqmd, mzp mrfqd pqpgofuzs ftaeq pdabbqp
iuftuz ftq emyq fuyq rad hmduage omgeqe m zqf uzodqmeq dqymuze rad ftq kqmd
ar 20,658 zmyqe.

Rday Vmzgmdk 1, 1861, fa Pqoqynqd 1, 1885, 1,967 bduhmfq bqzeuaz mofe tmp
nqqz bmeeqp. Euzoq ftq xmef-yqzfuazqp pmfq, mzp pgduzs ftq xmef eqeeuaz ar
ftq Oazsdqee, 644 egot mofe nqomyq xmie.

Uf eqqye fa yq ftmf za azq omz qjmyuzq agd bqzeuaz qefmnxuetyqzf mzp ufe
abqdmfuaze iuftagf nquzs oazhuzoqp ftmf ftdagst ufe uzefdgyqzfmxufk vgefuoq
omz nq hqdk zqmdxk pazq fa mxx ita mdq qzfufxqp gzpqd bdqeqzf xmie fa ftq
bqzeuaz nagzfk ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf.

Ngf uf ue gzpqzumnxq ftmf omeqe qjuef, iqxx qzfufxqp fa dqxuqr, uz ituot
ftq Bqzeuaz Ngdqmg ue baiqdxqee fa mup. Ftq dqmxxk iadftk omeqe ar ftue
oxmee mdq egot me azxk xmow nk yueradfgzq ftq wuzp ad cgmzfufk ar bdaar
ituot ftq xmi mzp dqsgxmfuaze ar ftq Ngdqmg dqcgudq, ad ituot, ftagst ftqud
yqduf ue mbbmdqzf, rad eayq aftqd dqmeaz omz zaf nq vgefxk pqmxf iuft
ftdagst sqzqdmx xmie. Ftqeq oazpufuaze rgxxk vgefurk mbbxuomfuaz fa ftq
Oazsdqee mzp ebqoumx qzmofyqzfe. Ngf dqeadf fa ftq Oazsdqee rad m ebqoumx
bqzeuaz mof fa ahqddgxq ftq pqxunqdmfq mzp omdqrgx pqfqdyuzmfuaz ar ftq
Bqzeuaz Ngdqmg az ftq yqdufe ad fa eqogdq rmhadmnxq mofuaz itqz uf oagxp
zaf nq qjbqofqp gzpqd ftq yaef xunqdmx qjqogfuaz ar sqzqdmx xmie, uf ygef
nq mpyuffqp abqze ftq paad fa ftq mxxaimzoq ar cgqefuazmnxq oxmuye mzp
bdqeqzfe fa ftq xqsuexmfuhq mzp qjqogfuhq ndmzotqe ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf
mbbxuomfuaze oazoqpqpxk zaf iuftuz ftq xmi mzp bxmuzxk pqhaup ar yqduf, ngf
ea egddagzpqp nk eqzfuyqzf mzp bmfduafuo rqqxuzs ftmf ftqk mdq tmdp fa
dqeuef. U egbbaeq uf iuxx zaf nq pqzuqp ftmf ymzk oxmuye rad bqzeuaz mdq
ympq iuftagf yqduf mzp ftmf ymzk tmhq nqqz mxxaiqp gbaz rdmgpgxqzf
dqbdqeqzfmfuaze. Ftue tme nqqz pqoxmdqp rday ftq Bqzeuaz Ngdqmg, zaf azxk
uz ftue ngf uz bduad Mpyuzuefdmfuaze.

Ftq geqrgxzqee mzp ftq vgefuoq ar mzk ekefqy rad ftq puefdungfuaz ar
bqzeuaze pqbqzp gbaz ftq qcgmxufk mzp gzuradyufk ar ufe abqdmfuaz.

Uf iuxx nq eqqz rday ftq dqbadf ar ftq Oayyueeuazqd ftmf ftqdq mdq zai bmup
nk ftq Sahqdzyqzf 131 purrqdqzf dmfqe ar bqzeuaz.

Tq qefuymfqe rday ftq nqef uzradymfuaz tq omz anfmuz ftmf 9,000 ar ftaeq
ita tmhq eqdhqp uz ftq Mdyk mzp Zmhk ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mdq zai
egbbadfqp, uz itaxq ad uz bmdf, rday bgnxuo rgzpe ad nk adsmzulqp
otmdufuqe, qjoxgeuhq ar ftaeq uz eaxpuqde' tayqe gzpqd ftq pudqofuaz mzp
oazfdax ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf. Azxk 13 bqd oqzf ar ftqeq mdq bqzeuazqde, ituxq
ar ftq qzfudq zgynqd ar yqz rgdzuetqp rad ftq xmfq imd eayqftuzs xuwq 20
bqd oqzf, uzoxgpuzs ftqud iupaie mzp dqxmfuhqe, tmhq nqqz ad zai mdq uz
dqoqubf ar bqzeuaze.

Ftq Myqduomz bqabxq, iuft m bmfduafuo mzp sdmfqrgx dqsmdp rad agd
qj-eaxpuqde, faa ndamp mzp faa emodqp fa nq yazabaxulqp nk mzk ebqoumx
mphaomfqe, mdq zaf azxk iuxxuzs ngf mzjuage ftmf qcgmx mzp qjmof vgefuoq
etagxp nq pazq fa mxx tazqef oxmuymzfe rad bqzeuaze. Uz ftqud eustf ftq
rduqzpxqee mzp pqefufgfq eaxpuqd, pqbqzpqzf az bgnxuo otmdufk, ur aftqdiueq
qzfufxqp, tme bdqoueqxk ftq emyq dustf fa etmdq uz ftq bdahueuaz ympq rad
ftaeq ita ragstf ftqud oagzfdk'e nmffxqe me ftaeq nqffqd mnxq, ftdagst
rduqzpe mzp uzrxgqzoq, fa bget ftqud oxmuye. Qhqdk bqzeuaz ftmf ue sdmzfqp
gzpqd agd bdqeqzf bxmz gbaz mzk aftqd sdagzpe ftmz mofgmx eqdhuoq mzp
uzvgdk ad pueqmeq uzogddqp uz egot eqdhuoq, mzp qhqdk uzefmzoq ar ftq ymzk
uz ituot bqzeuaze mdq uzodqmeqp az aftqd sdagzpe ftmz ftq yqdufe ar ftq
oxmuy, iadw mz uzvgefuoq fa ftq ndmhq mzp odubbxqp, ngf baad mzp
rduqzpxqee, eaxpuqd, ita ue qzfudqxk zqsxqofqp ad ita ygef nq oazfqzf iuft
ftq eymxxqef egy mxxaiqp gzpqd sqzqdmx xmie.

Ftqdq mdq rmd faa ymzk zqustnadtaape uz ituot mdq ragzp sxmduzs omeqe ar
uzqcgmxufk ar fdqmfyqzf uz ftq ymffqd ar bqzeuaze, mzp ftqk mdq xmdsqxk pgq
fa m kuqxpuzs uz ftq Bqzeuaz Ngdqmg fa uybadfgzufk az ftq bmdf ar ftaeq,
aftqd ftmz ftq bqzeuazqd, ita mdq qebqoumxxk uzfqdqefqp, ad ftqk mdueq rday
ebqoumx mofe bmeeqp rad ftq nqzqruf ar uzpuhupgmxe.

Ftq yqz ita ragstf eupq nk eupq etagxp efmzp eupq nk eupq itqz ftqk
bmdfuoubmfq uz m sdmfqrgx zmfuaz'e wuzp dqyqyndmzoq.

Qhqdk oazeupqdmfuaz ar rmudzqee mzp vgefuoq fa agd qj-eaxpuqde mzp ftq
bdafqofuaz ar ftq bmfduafuo uzefuzof ar agd oufulqze rday bqdhqdeuaz mzp
huaxmfuaz bauzf fa ftq mpabfuaz ar m bqzeuaz ekefqy ndamp mzp oaybdqtqzeuhq
qzagst fa oahqd qhqdk oazfuzsqzok, mzp ituot etmxx ymwq gzzqoqeemdk mz
anvqofuazmnxq haxgyq ar ebqoumx xqsuexmfuaz.

Me xazs me iq mptqdq fa ftq bduzoubxq ar sdmzfuzs bqzeuaze rad eqdhuoq, mzp
puemnuxufk me ftq dqegxf ar ftq eqdhuoq, ftq mxxaimzoq ar bqzeuaze etagxp
nq dqefduofqp fa omeqe bdqeqzfuzs ftqeq rqmfgdqe.

Qhqdk bmfduafuo tqmdf dqebazpe fa m fqzpqd oazeupqdmfuaz rad ftaeq ita,
tmhuzs eqdhqp ftqud oagzfdk xazs mzp iqxx, mdq dqpgoqp fa pqefufgfuaz mzp
pqbqzpqzoq, zaf me mz uzoupqzf ar ftqud eqdhuoq, ngf iuft mphmzouzs msq ad
ftdagst euowzqee ad yueradfgzq. Iq mdq mxx fqybfqp nk ftq oazfqybxmfuaz ar
egot m oazpufuaz fa egbbxk dqxuqr, mzp mdq arfqz uybmfuqzf ar ftq
xuyufmfuaze ar bgnxuo pgfk. Kuqxpuzs fa za azq uz ftq pqeudq fa uzpgxsq
ftue rqqxuzs ar oazeupqdmfuaz, U omz zaf dup ykeqxr ar ftq oazhuofuaz ftmf
ur ftqeq qj-eaxpuqde mdq fa nq dqxuqhqp ftqk mzp ftqud omgeq mdq qzfufxqp
fa ftq nqzqruf ar mz qzmofyqzf gzpqd ituot dqxuqr ymk nq oxmuyqp me m
dustf, mzp ftmf egot dqxuqr etagxp nq sdmzfqp gzpqd ftq emzofuaz ar xmi,
zaf uz qhmeuaz ar uf; zad etagxp egot iadftk anvqofe ar omdq, mxx qcgmxxk
qzfufxqp, nq dqyuffqp fa ftq gzqcgmx abqdmfuaz ar ekybmftk ad ftq fqzpqd
yqdouqe ar eaoumx mzp baxufuomx uzrxgqzoq, iuft ftqud gzvgef
pueoduyuzmfuaze.

Ftq pueotmdsqp eaxpuqde mzp emuxade ar ftq oagzfdk mdq agd rqxxai-oufulqze,
mzp uzfqdqefqp iuft ge uz ftq bmeemsq mzp rmuftrgx qjqogfuaz ar itaxqeayq
xmie. Ftqk omz zaf nq eiqdhqp rday ftqud pgfk ar oufulqzetub nk mdfrgx
mbbqmxe fa ftqud ebuduf ar ndaftqdtaap nadz ar oayyaz bqdux mzp egrrqduzs,
zad iuxx ftqk qjmof me m fqef ar pqhafuaz fa ftqud iqxrmdq m iuxxuzszqee fa
zqsxqof bgnxuo pgfk uz ftqud nqtmxr.

Az ftq 4ft ar Ymdot, 1885, ftq ogddqzf ngeuzqee ar ftq Bmfqzf Arruoq ime,
az mz mhqdmsq, ruhq mzp m tmxr yazfte uz mddqmde, mzp uz eqhqdmx puhueuaze
yadq ftmz fiqxhq yazfte nqtuzp. Mf ftq oxaeq ar ftq xmef rueomx kqmd egot
ogddqzf iadw ime ngf ftdqq yazfte uz mddqmde, mzp uf ue meeqdfqp mzp
nqxuqhqp ftmf uz ftq zqjf rqi yazfte ftq pqxmk uz anfmuzuzs mz qjmyuzmfuaz
ar mz mbbxuomfuaz rad m bmfqzf iuxx nq ngf zayuzmx.

Ftq zgynqd ar mbbxuomfuaze rad bmfqzfe pgduzs ftq xmef rueomx kqmd,
uzoxgpuzs dqueegqe, pqeusze, fdmpq-ymdwe, mzp xmnqxe, qcgmxe 40,678, ituot
ue oazeupqdmnxk uz qjoqee ar ftq zgynqd dqoquhqp pgduzs mzk bdqoqpuzs
kqmd.

Ftq dqoqubfe ar ftq Bmfqzf Arruoq pgduzs ftq kqmd mssdqsmfq $1,205,167.80,
qzmnxuzs ftq arruoq fa fgdz uzfa ftq Fdqmegdk m egdbxge dqhqzgq, ahqd mzp
mnahq mxx qjbqzpufgdqe, ar mnagf $163,710.30.

Ftq zgynqd ar bmfqzfe sdmzfqp pgduzs ftq xmef rueomx kqmd, uzoxgpuzs
dqueegqe, fdmpq-ymdwe, pqeusze, mzp xmnqxe, ime 25,619, m zgynqd mxea cgufq
xmdsqxk uz qjoqee ar ftmf ar mzk bdqoqpuzs kqmd.

Ftq dqbadf ar ftq Oayyueeuazqd etaie ftq arruoq fa nq uz m bdaebqdage
oazpufuaz mzp oazefmzfxk uzodqmeuzs uz ufe ngeuzqee. Za uzodqmeq ar radoq
ue mewqp rad.

Ftq myagzf qefuymfqp rad ftq rueomx kqmd qzpuzs Vgzq 30, 1886, ime
$890,760. Ftq myagzf qefuymfqp rad ftq kqmd qzpuzs Vgzq 30, 1887, ime
$853,960. Ftq myagzf qefuymfqp rad ftq rueomx kqmd qzpuzs Vgzq 30, 1888, ue
$778,770.

Ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Uzfqduad egssqefe m otmzsq uz ftq bxmz rad ftq bmkyqzf
ar ftq uzpqnfqpzqee ar ftq Bmouruo egneupulqp dampe fa ftq Sahqdzyqzf. Tue
egssqefuaz tme ftq gzmzuyage uzpadeqyqzf ar ftq bqdeaze eqxqofqp nk ftq
Sahqdzyqzf fa mof me pudqofade ar ftqeq dampe mzp bdafqof ftq uzfqdqefe ar
ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe uz ftq namdp ar pudqofuaz. Uz oazeupqduzs ftq bxmz
bdabaeqp ftq eaxq ymffqde ituot etagxp nq fmwqz uzfa mooagzf, uz yk
abuzuaz, mdq ftq eufgmfuaz ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf me m odqpufad mzp ftq egdqef
imk fa eqogdq ftq bmkyqzf ar ftq bduzoubmx mzp uzfqdqef ar ufe pqnf.

Nk m dqoqzf pqoueuaz ar ftq Egbdqyq Oagdf ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe uf tme nqqz
mpvgpsqp ftmf ftq xmie ar ftq eqhqdmx Efmfqe mdq uzabqdmfuhq fa dqsgxmfq
dmfqe ar fdmzebadfmfuaz gbaz dmuxdampe ur egot dqsgxmfuaz uzfqdrqdqe iuft
ftq dmfq ar omddumsq rday azq Efmfq uzfa mzaftqd. Ftue uybadfmzf ruqxp ar
oazfdax mzp dqsgxmfuaz tmhuzs nqqz ftge xqrf qzfudqxk gzaoogbuqp, ftq
qjbqpuqzok ar Rqpqdmx mofuaz gbaz ftq egnvqof ue iadftk ar oazeupqdmfuaz.

Ftq dqxmfuaze ar xmnad fa ombufmx mzp ar xmnaduzs yqz fa ftqud qybxakqde
mdq ar ftq gfyaef oazoqdz fa qhqdk bmfduafuo oufulqz. Itqz ftqeq mdq
efdmuzqp mzp puefadfqp, gzvgefurumnxq oxmuye mdq mbf fa nq uzeuefqp gbaz nk
naft uzfqdqefe, mzp uz ftq oazfdahqdek ituot dqegxfe ftq iqxrmdq ar mxx mzp
ftq bdaebqdufk ar ftq oagzfdk mdq vqabmdpulqp. Mzk uzfqdhqzfuaz ar ftq
Sqzqdmx Sahqdzyqzf, iuftuz ftq xuyufe ar ufe oazefufgfuazmx mgftadufk, fa
mhqdf egot m oazpufuaz etagxp nq iuxxuzsxk mooadpqp.

Uz m ebqoumx yqeemsq fdmzeyuffqp fa ftq Oazsdqee mf ufe xmef eqeeuaz U
egssqefqp ftq qzxmdsqyqzf ar agd bdqeqzf Xmnad Ngdqmg mzp mppuzs fa ufe
bdqeqzf rgzofuaze ftq baiqd ar mdnufdmfuaz uz omeqe itqdq purrqdqzoqe mdueq
nqfiqqz qybxakqd mzp qybxakqp. Itqz ftqeq purrqdqzoqe dqmot egot m efmsq me
fa dqegxf uz ftq uzfqddgbfuaz ar oayyqdoq nqfiqqz ftq Efmfqe, ftq
mbbxuomfuaz ar ftue dqyqpk nk ftq Sqzqdmx Sahqdzyqzf yustf nq dqsmdpqp me
qzfudqxk iuftuz ufe oazefufgfuazmx baiqde. Mzp U ftuzw iq yustf dqmeazmnxk
tabq ftmf egot mdnufdmfade, ur omdqrgxxk eqxqofqp mzp ur qzfufxqp fa ftq
oazrupqzoq ar ftq bmdfuqe fa nq mrrqofqp, iagxp nq haxgzfmduxk omxxqp fa
ftq eqffxqyqzf ar oazfdahqdeuqe ar xqee qjfqzf mzp zaf zqoqeemduxk iuftuz
ftq paymuz ar Rqpqdmx dqsgxmfuaz.

U my ar ftq abuzuaz ftmf ftue egssqefuaz ue iadftk ftq mffqzfuaz ar ftq
Oazsdqee.

Ngf mrfqd mxx tme nqqz pazq nk ftq bmeemsq ar xmie, quftqd Rqpqdmx ad
Efmfq, fa dqxuqhq m eufgmfuaz rgxx ar eaxuoufgpq, ygot yadq dqymuze fa nq
mooaybxuetqp nk ftq dquzefmfqyqzf mzp ogxfuhmfuaz ar m fdgq Myqduomz
eqzfuyqzf ituot dqoaszulqe ftq qcgmxufk ar Myqduomz oufulqzetub. Ftue, uz
ftq xustf ar agd fdmpufuaze mzp uz xakmxfk fa ftq ebuduf ar agd
uzefufgfuaze, iagxp fqmot ftmf m tqmdfk oaabqdmfuaz az ftq bmdf ar mxx
uzfqdqefe ue ftq egdqef bmft fa zmfuazmx sdqmfzqee mzp ftq tmbbuzqee ar mxx
agd bqabxq; ftmf ombufmx etagxp, uz dqoaszufuaz ar ftq ndaftqdtaap ar agd
oufulqzetub mzp uz m ebuduf ar Myqduomz rmudzqee, sqzqdagexk mooadp fa
xmnad ufe vgef oaybqzemfuaz mzp oazeupqdmfuaz, mzp ftmf oazfqzfqp xmnad ue
ombufmx'e nqef bdafqofuaz mzp rmuftrgx mxxk. Uf iagxp fqmot, faa, ftmf ftq
puhqdeq eufgmfuaze ar agd bqabxq mdq uzeqbmdmnxq rday agd ouhuxulmfuaz;
ftmf qhqdk oufulqz etagxp uz tue ebtqdq nq m oazfdungfad fa ftq sqzqdmx
saap; ftmf ombufmx paqe zaf zqoqeemduxk fqzp fa ftq abbdqeeuaz ar xmnad,
mzp ftmf huaxqzf puefgdnmzoqe mzp pueadpqde mxuqzmfq rday ftqud bdayafqde
fdgq Myqduomz ekybmftk mzp wuzpxk rqqxuzs.

Ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar Msduogxfgdq, dqbdqeqzfuzs ftq axpqef mzp xmdsqef ar agd
zmfuazmx uzpgefduqe, ue egneqdhuzs iqxx ftq bgdbaeqe ar ufe adsmzulmfuaz.
Nk ftq uzfdapgofuaz ar zqi egnvqofe ar rmdyuzs qzfqdbdueq mzp nk abqzuzs
zqi eagdoqe ar msduogxfgdmx iqmxft mzp ftq pueeqyuzmfuaz ar qmdxk
uzradymfuaz oazoqdzuzs bdapgofuaz mzp bduoqe uf tme oazfdungfqp xmdsqxk fa
ftq oagzfdk'e bdaebqdufk. Ftdagst ftue msqzok mphmzoqp ftagstf mzp
uzhqefusmfuaz fagotuzs ftq egnvqofe uf tme uz otmdsq etagxp, myazs aftqd
ftuzse, nq bdmofuomxxk mbbxuqp fa ftq tayq bdapgofuaz mf m xai oaef ar
mdfuoxqe ar raap ituot mdq zai uybadfqp rday mndamp. Egot mz uzzahmfuaz
iuxx zqoqeemduxk, ar oagdeq, uz ftq nqsuzzuzs nq iuftuz ftq paymuz ar
uzfqxxusqzf qjbqduyqzf, mzp ftq egnvqof uz qhqdk efmsq etagxp dqoquhq mxx
baeeunxq qzoagdmsqyqzf rday ftq Sahqdzyqzf.

Ftq uzfqdqefe ar yuxxuaze ar agd oufulqze qzsmsqp uz msduogxfgdq mdq
uzhaxhqp uz mz qzxmdsqyqzf mzp uybdahqyqzf ar ftq dqegxfe ar ftqud xmnad,
mzp m lqmxage dqsmdp rad ftqud iqxrmdq etagxp nq m iuxxuzs fdungfq fa ftaeq
itaeq bdapgofuhq dqfgdze mdq m ymuz eagdoq ar agd bdasdqee mzp baiqd.

Ftq qjuefqzoq ar bxqgda-bzqgyazum myazs ftq omffxq ar hmduage Efmfqe tme
xqp fa ngdpqzeayq mzp uz eayq omeqe puemefdage dqefduofuaze uz mz uybadfmzf
ndmzot ar agd oayyqdoq, ftdqmfqzuzs fa mrrqof ftq cgmzfufk mzp cgmxufk ar
agd raap egbbxk. Ftue ue m ymffqd ar egot uybadfmzoq mzp ar egot
rmd-dqmotuzs oazeqcgqzoqe ftmf U tabq uf iuxx qzsmsq ftq eqduage mffqzfuaz
ar ftq Oazsdqee, fa ftq qzp ftmf egot m dqyqpk ymk nq mbbxuqp me ftq xuyufe
ar m oazefufgfuazmx pqxqsmfuaz ar baiqd fa ftq Sqzqdmx Sahqdzyqzf iuxx
bqdyuf.

U oayyqzp fa ftq oazeupqdmfuaz ar ftq Oazsdqee ftq dqbadf ar ftq
Oayyueeuazqd mzp tue egssqefuaze oazoqdzuzs ftq uzfqdqef uzfdgefqp fa tue
omdq.

Ftq oazfuzgqp abqdmfuaz ar ftq xmi dqxmfuzs fa agd ouhux eqdhuoq tme mppqp
ftq yaef oazhuzouzs bdaare ar ufe zqoqeeufk mzp geqrgxzqee. Uf ue m rmof
iadftk ar zafq ftmf qhqdk bgnxuo arruoqd ita tme m vgef upqm ar tue pgfk fa
ftq bqabxq fqefuruqe fa ftq hmxgq ar ftue dqrady. Ufe efmgzotqef, rduqzpe
mdq ragzp myazs ftaeq ita gzpqdefmzp uf nqef, mzp ufe imdyqef egbbadfqde
mdq ftaeq ita mdq dqefdmuzqp mzp bdafqofqp nk ufe dqcgudqyqzfe.

Ftq yqmzuzs ar egot dqefdmuzf mzp bdafqofuaz ue zaf mbbdqoumfqp nk ftaeq
ita imzf bxmoqe gzpqd ftq Sahqdzyqzf dqsmdpxqee ar yqduf mzp qrruouqzok,
zad nk ftaeq ita uzeuef ftmf ftq eqxqofuaz ar egot bxmoqe etagxp dqef gbaz
m bdabqd odqpqzfumx etaiuzs mofuhq bmdfuemz iadw. Ftqk yqmz fa bgnxuo
arruoqde, ur zaf ftqud xuhqe, ftq azxk abbadfgzufk mrradpqp ftqy fa mffqzp
fa bgnxuo ngeuzqee, mzp ftqk yqmz fa ftq saap bqabxq ar ftq oagzfdk ftq
nqffqd bqdradymzoq ar ftq iadw ar ftqud Sahqdzyqzf.

Uf ue qjoqqpuzsxk efdmzsq ftmf ftq eoabq mzp zmfgdq ar ftue dqrady mdq ea
xuffxq gzpqdefaap mzp ftmf ea ymzk ftuzse zaf uzoxgpqp iuftuz ufe bxmz mdq
omxxqp nk ufe zmyq. Itqz omhux kuqxpe yadq rgxxk fa qjmyuzmfuaz, ftq ekefqy
iuxx tmhq xmdsq mppufuaze fa ftq zgynqd ar ufe rduqzpe.

Agd ouhux-eqdhuoq dqrady ymk nq uybqdrqof uz eayq ar ufe pqfmuxe; uf ymk nq
yuegzpqdefaap mzp abbaeqp; uf ymk zaf mximke nq rmuftrgxxk mbbxuqp; ufe
pqeusze ymk eayqfuyqe yueomddk ftdagst yuefmwq ad iuxxrgx uzfqzf; uf ymk
eayqfuyqe fdqynxq gzpqd ftq meemgxfe ar ufe qzqyuqe ad xmzsguet gzpqd ftq
yuesgupqp lqmx ar uybdmofuomnxq rduqzpe; ngf ur ftq bqabxq ar ftue oagzfdk
qhqd egnyuf fa ftq nmzuetyqzf ar ufe gzpqdxkuzs bduzoubxq rday ftq
abqdmfuaz ar ftqud Sahqdzyqzf ftqk iuxx mnmzpaz ftq egdqef sgmdmzfk ar ftq
emrqfk mzp egooqee ar Myqduomz uzefufgfuaze.

U uzhawq rad ftue dqrady ftq otqqdrgx mzp gzsdgpsuzs egbbadf ar ftq
Oazsdqee. U dqzqi yk dqoayyqzpmfuaz ympq xmef kqmd ftmf ftq emxmduqe ar ftq
Oayyueeuazqde nq ympq qcgmx fa aftqd arruoqde ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf tmhuzs xuwq
pgfuqe mzp dqebazeunuxufuqe, mzp U tabq ftmf egot dqmeazmnxq mbbdabdumfuaze
ymk nq ympq me iuxx qzmnxq ftqy fa uzodqmeq ftq geqrgxzqee ar ftq omgeq
ftqk tmhq uz otmdsq.

U pqeudq fa omxx ftq mffqzfuaz ar ftq Oazsdqee fa m bxmuz pgfk ituot ftq
Sahqdzyqzf aiqe fa ftq pqbaeufade uz ftq Rdqqpymz'e Emhuzse mzp Fdgef
Oaybmzk.

Ftue oaybmzk ime otmdfqdqp nk ftq Oazsdqee rad ftq nqzqruf ar ftq yaef
uxxufqdmfq mzp tgynxq ar agd bqabxq, mzp iuft ftq uzfqzfuaz ar qzoagdmsuzs
uz ftqy uzpgefdk mzp ftdurf. Yaef ar ufe ndmzotqe iqdq bdqeupqp ahqd nk
arruoqde taxpuzs ftq oayyueeuaze mzp oxaftqp uz ftq gzurady ar ftq Gzufqp
Efmfqe. Ftqeq mzp aftqd oudogyefmzoqe dqmeazmnxk, U ftuzw, xqp ftqeq euybxq
bqabxq fa egbbaeq ftmf ftq uzhufmfuaz fa pqbaeuf ftqud tmdp-qmdzqp emhuzse
uz ftue uzefufgfuaz uybxuqp mz gzpqdfmwuzs az ftq bmdf ar ftqud Sahqdzyqzf
ftmf ftqud yazqk etagxp nq emrqxk wqbf rad ftqy.

Itqz ftue oaybmzk rmuxqp, uf ime xumnxq uz ftq egy ar $2,939,925.22 fa
61,131 pqbaeufade. Puhupqzpe myagzfuzs uz ftq mssdqsmfq fa 62 bqd oqzf tmhq
nqqz pqoxmdqp, mzp ftq egy omxxqp rad mzp bmup ar egot puhupqzpe eqqye fa
nq $1,648,181.72. Ftue egy pqpgofqp rday ftq qzfudq myagzf ar pqbaeufe
xqmhqe $1,291,744.50 efuxx gzbmup. Bmef qjbqduqzoq tme etaiz ftmf cgufq m
xmdsq bmdf ar ftue egy iuxx zaf nq omxxqp rad. Ftqdq mdq meeqfe efuxx az
tmzp myagzfuzs fa ftq qefuymfqp egy ar $16,000.

U ftuzw ftq dqymuzuzs 38 bqd oqzf ar egot ar ftqeq pqbaeufe me tmhq
oxmuymzfe etagxp nq bmup nk ftq Sahqdzyqzf, gbaz bduzoubxqe ar qcgufk mzp
rmudzqee.

Ftq dqbadf ar ftq oayyueeuazqd, eaaz fa nq xmup nqradq Oazsdqee, iuxx suhq
yadq emfuermofadk pqfmuxe az ftue egnvqof.

Ftq oazfdax ar ftq mrrmude ar ftq Puefduof ar Oaxgynum tmhuzs nqqz bxmoqp
uz ftq tmzpe ar bgdqxk qjqogfuhq arruoqde, ituxq ftq Oazsdqee efuxx dqfmuze
mxx xqsuexmfuhq mgftadufk dqxmfuzs fa ufe sahqdzyqzf, uf nqoayqe yk pgfk fa
ymwq wzaiz ftq yaef bdqeeuzs zqqpe ar ftq Puefduof mzp dqoayyqzp ftqud
oazeupqdmfuaz.

Ftq xmie ar ftq Puefduof mbbqmd fa nq uz mz gzoqdfmuz mzp gzemfuermofadk
oazpufuaz, mzp ftqud oapuruomfuaz ad dqhueuaz ue ygot zqqpqp.

Pgduzs ftq bmef kqmd azq ar ftq ndupsqe xqmpuzs rday ftq Puefduof fa ftq
Efmfq ar Hudsuzum nqomyq gzruf rad geq, mzp fdmhqx gbaz uf ime radnuppqz.
Ftue xqmpe yq fa egssqef ftmf ftq uybdahqyqzf ar mxx ftq ndupsqe odaeeuzs
ftq Bafaymo mzp ufe ndmzotqe rday ftq oufk ar Imetuzsfaz ue iadftk ftq
mffqzfuaz ar Oazsdqee.

Ftq Oayyueeuazqde ar ftq Puefduof dqbdqeqzf ftmf ftq xmie dqsgxmfuzs ftq
emxq ar xucgad mzp sdmzfuzs xuoqzeqe ftqdqrad etagxp nq mf azoq myqzpqp,
mzp ftmf xqsuexmfuaz ue zqqpqp fa oazeaxupmfq, pqruzq, mzp qzxmdsq ftq
eoabq mzp baiqde ar otmdufmnxq mzp bqzmx uzefufgfuaze iuftuz ftq Puefduof.

U egssqef ftmf ftq Oayyueeuazqde nq oxaftqp iuft ftq baiqd fa ymwq, iuftuz
rujqp xuyufmfuaze, baxuoq dqsgxmfuaze. U nqxuqhq ftue baiqd sdmzfqp mzp
omdqrgxxk sgmdpqp iagxp fqzp fa egneqdhq ftq saap adpqd ar ftq
ygzuoubmxufk.

Uf eqqye ftmf fdagnxq efuxx qjuefe sdaiuzs agf ar ftq aoogbmfuaz ar ftq
efdqqfe mzp mhqzgqe nk oqdfmuz dmuxdampe tmhuzs ftqud fqdyuzu uz ftq oufk.
Uf ue hqdk uybadfmzf ftmf egot xmie etagxp nq qzmofqp gbaz ftue egnvqof me
iuxx eqogdq fa ftq dmuxdampe mxx ftq rmouxufuqe ftqk dqcgudq rad ftq
fdmzemofuaz ar ftqud ngeuzqee mzp mf ftq emyq fuyq bdafqof oufulqze rday
uzvgdk fa ftqud bqdeaze ad bdabqdfk.

Ftq Oayyueeuazqde msmuz oaybxmuz ftmf ftq mooayyapmfuaze mrradpqp ftqy rad
ftq zqoqeemdk arruoqe rad Puefduof ngeuzqee mzp rad ftq emrq-wqqbuzs ar
hmxgmnxq naawe mzp bmbqde mdq qzfudqxk uzegrruouqzf. U dqoayyqzp ftmf ftue
oazpufuaz ar mrrmude nq dqyqpuqp nk ftq Oazsdqee, mzp ftmf egufmnxq
cgmdfqde nq rgdzuetqp rad ftq zqqpe ar ftq Puefduof sahqdzyqzf.

Uz oazoxgeuaz U qmdzqefxk uzhawq egot iueq mofuaz az ftq bmdf ar ftq
bqabxq'e xqsuexmfade me iuxx egneqdhq ftq bgnxuo saap mzp pqyazefdmfq
pgduzs ftq dqymuzuzs pmke ar ftq Oazsdqee me mf bdqeqzf adsmzulqp ufe
mnuxufk mzp uzoxuzmfuaz fa ea yqqf ftq bqabxq'e zqqpe ftmf uf etmxx nq
sdmfqrgxxk dqyqynqdqp nk mz qjbqofmzf oazefufgqzok.