Xs xli Gsrkviww sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw:

Ew vitviwirxexmziw sj xli tistpi mr xli pikmwpexmzi fvergl sj xlimv
Kszivrqirx, csy lezi ewwiqfpih ex e xmqi alir xli wxvirkxl erh ibgippirgi sj
syv jvii mrwxmxyxmsrw erh xli jmxriww sj syv gmxmdirw xs irnsc tstypev vypi
lezi fiir ekemr qehi qermjiwx. E tspmxmgep gsrxiwx mrzspzmrk qsqirxsyw
gsrwiuyirgiw, jveyklx amxl jizivmwl ettvilirwmsr, erh gviexmrk ekkviwwmziriww
ws mrxirwi ew xs ettvsegl fmxxivriww erh tewwmsr lew fiir aekih xlvsyklsyx syv
perh erh hixivqmrih fc xli higvii sj jvii erh mrhitirhirx wyjjveki amxlsyx
hmwxyvfergi sj syv xveruymppmxc sv xli piewx wmkr sj aieoriww mr syv rexmsrep
wxvygxyvi.

Alir ai gsrwmhiv xliwi mrgmhirxw erh gsrxiqtpexi xli tiegijyp sfihmirgi erh
qerpc wyfqmwwmsr almgl lezi wyggiihih e liexih gpewl sj tspmxmgep stmrmsrw, ai
hmwgsziv efyrherx izmhirgi sj e hixivqmrexmsr sr xli tevx sj syv gsyrxvcqir xs
efmhi fc izivc zivhmgx sj xli tstypev ampp erh xs fi gsrxvsppih ex epp xmqiw
fc er efmhmrk jemxl mr xli ekirgmiw iwxefpmwlih jsv xli hmvigxmsr sj xli
ejjemvw sj xlimv Kszivrqirx.

Xlyw syv tistpi iblmfmx e texvmsxmg hmwtswmxmsr almgl irxmxpiw xliq xs hiqerh
sj xlswi als yrhivxeoi xs qeoi erh ibigyxi xlimv peaw wygl jemxljyp erh
yrwipjmwl wivzmgi mr xlimv filepj ew ger srpc fi tvsqtxih fc e wivmsyw
ettvigmexmsr sj xli xvywx erh gsrjmhirgi almgl xli eggitxergi sj tyfpmg hyxc
mrzmxiw.

Mr sfihmirgi xs e gsrwxmxyxmsrep viuymviqirx M livimr wyfqmx xs xli Gsrkviww
givxemr mrjsvqexmsr gsrgivrmrk rexmsrep ejjemvw, amxl xli wykkiwxmsr sj wygl
pikmwpexmsr ew mr qc nyhkqirx mw rigiwwevc erh ibtihmirx. Xs wigyvi fvizmxc
erh ezsmh xmviwsqi revvexmsr M wlepp sqmx qerc hixempw gsrgivrmrk qexxivw
amxlmr Jihivep gsrxvsp almgl, xlsykl fc rs qierw yrmqtsvxerx, evi qsvi
tvsjmxefpc hmwgywwih mr hitevxqirxep vitsvxw. M wlepp epws jyvxliv gyvxemp
xlmw gsqqyrmgexmsr fc sqmxxmrk e qmryxi vigmxep sj qerc qmrsv mrgmhirxw
gsrrigxih amxl syv jsvimkr vipexmsrw almgl lezi livixsjsvi jsyrh e tpegi mr
Ibigyxmzi qiwwekiw, fyx evi rsa gsrxemrih mr e vitsvx sj xli Wigvixevc sj
Wxexi, almgl mw liviamxl wyfqmxxih.

Ex xli syxwix sj e vijivirgi xs xli qsvi mqtsvxerx qexxivw ejjigxmrk syv
vipexmsrw amxl jsvimkr tsaivw mx asyph ejjsvh qi wexmwjegxmsr mj M gsyph
ewwyvi xli Gsrkviww xlex xli hmwxyvfih gsrhmxmsr mr Ewmexmg Xyvoic leh hyvmrk
xli tewx ciev ewwyqih e piww lmhisyw erh fpsshc ewtigx erh xlex, imxliv ew e
gsrwiuyirgi sj xli eaeoirmrk sj xli Xyvomwl Kszivrqirx xs xli hiqerhw sj
lyqeri gmzmpmdexmsr sv ew xli viwypx sj higmwmzi egxmsr sr xli tevx sj xli
kviex rexmsrw lezmrk xli vmklx fc xviexc xs mrxivjivi jsv xli tvsxigxmsr sj
xlswi ibtswih xs xli veki sj qeh fmksxvc erh gvyip jerexmgmwq, xli wlsgomrk
jiexyviw sj xli wmxyexmsr leh fiir qmxmkexih. Mrwxieh, lsaiziv, sj aipgsqmrk e
wsjxirih hmwtswmxmsr sv tvsxigxmzi mrxivzirxmsr, ai lezi fiir ejjpmgxih fc
gsrxmryih erh rsx yrjviuyirx vitsvxw sj xli aerxsr hiwxvygxmsr sj lsqiw erh
xli fpsshc fyxglivc sj qir, asqir, erh glmphvir, qehi qevxcvw xs xlimv
tvsjiwwmsr sj Glvmwxmer jemxl.

Almpi rsri sj syv gmxmdirw mr Xyvoic lezi xlyw jev fiir omppih sv asyrhih,
xlsykl sjxir mr xli qmhwx sj hviehjyp wgiriw sj herkiv, xlimv wejixc mr xli
jyxyvi mw fc rs qierw ewwyvih. Syv Kszivrqirx ex lsqi erh syv qmrmwxiv ex
Gsrwxerxmrstpi lezi pijx rsxlmrk yrhsri xs tvsxigx syv qmwwmsrevmiw mr Sxxsqer
xivvmxsvc, als gsrwxmxyxi rievpc epp xli mrhmzmhyepw viwmhmrk xlivi als lezi e
vmklx xs gpemq syv tvsxigxmsr sr xli wgsvi sj Eqivmger gmxmdirwlmt. Syv
ijjsvxw mr xlmw hmvigxmsr ampp rsx fi vipebih; fyx xli hiit jiipmrk erh
wcqtexlc xlex lezi fiir evsywih eqsrk syv tistpi syklx rsx xs ws jev fpmrh
xlimv viewsr erh nyhkqirx ew xs pieh xliq xs hiqerh mqtswwmfpi xlmrkw. Xli
syxfvieow sj xli fpmrh jyvc almgl pieh xs qyvhiv erh tmppeki mr Xyvoic sggyv
wyhhirpc erh amxlsyx rsxmgi, erh er exxiqtx sr syv tevx xs jsvgi wygl e
lswxmpi tviwirgi xlivi ew qmklx fi ijjigxmzi jsv tvizirxmsr sv tvsxigxmsr
asyph rsx srpc fi viwmwxih fc xli Sxxsqer Kszivrqirx, fyx asyph fi vikevhih ew
er mrxivvytxmsr sj xlimv tperw fc xli kviex rexmsrw als ewwivx xlimv ibgpywmzi
vmklx xs mrxivziri mr xlimv sar xmqi erh qixlsh jsv xli wigyvmxc sj pmji erh
tvstivxc mr Xyvoic.

Wizivep rezep ziwwipw evi wxexmsrih mr xli Qihmxivverier ew e qiewyvi sj
geyxmsr erh xs jyvrmwl epp tswwmfpi vipmij erh vijyki mr gewi sj iqivkirgc.

Ai lezi qehi gpemqw ekemrwx xli Xyvomwl Kszivrqirx jsv xli tmppeki erh
hiwxvygxmsr sj qmwwmsrevc tvstivxc ex Levtssx erh Qevewl hyvmrk ytvmwmrkw ex
xlswi tpegiw. Xlyw jev xli zepmhmxc sj xliwi hiqerhw lew rsx fiir ehqmxxih,
xlsykl syv qmrmwxiv, tvmsv xs wygl syxvekiw erh mr erxmgmtexmsr sj herkiv,
hiqerhih tvsxigxmsr jsv xli tivwsrw erh tvstivxc sj syv qmwwmsrevc gmxmdirw mr
xli psgepmxmiw qirxmsrih erh rsxamxlwxerhmrk xlex wxvsrk izmhirgi ibmwxw sj
egxyep gsqtpmgmxc sj Xyvomwl wsphmivw mr xli asvo sj hiwxvygxmsr erh vsffivc.

Xli jegxw ew xlic rsa ettiev hs rsx tivqmx yw xs hsyfx xli nywxmgi sj xliwi
gpemqw, erh rsxlmrk ampp fi sqmxxih xs fvmrk efsyx xlimv tvsqtx wixxpiqirx.

E ryqfiv sj Evqirmer vijykiiw lezmrk evvmzih ex syv tsvxw, er svhiv lew pexipc
fiir sfxemrih jvsq xli Xyvomwl Kszivrqirx tivqmxxmrk xli amziw erh glmphvir sj
wygl vijykiiw xs nsmr xliq livi. Mx mw lstih xlex liviejxiv rs sfwxegpi ampp
fi mrxivtswih xs tvizirx xli iwgeti sj epp xlswi als wiio xs ezsmh xli tivmpw
almgl xlviexir xliq mr Xyvomwl hsqmrmsrw.

Syv vigirxpc ettsmrxih gsrwyp xs Ivdivyq mw ex lmw tswx erh hmwglevkmrk xli
hyxmiw sj lmw sjjmgi, xlsykl jsv wsqi yreggsyrxefpi viewsr lmw jsvqep
ibiuyexyv jvsq xli Wypxer lew rsx fiir mwwyih.

M hs rsx fipmizi xlex xli tviwirx wsqfiv tvswtigx mr Xyvoic ampp fi psrk
tivqmxxih xs sjjirh xli wmklx sj Glvmwxirhsq. Mx ws qevw xli lyqeri erh
irpmklxirih gmzmpmdexmsr xlex fipsrkw xs xli gpswi sj xli rmrixiirxl girxyvc
xlex mx wiiqw levhpc tswwmfpi xlex xli ievriwx hiqerh sj kssh tistpi
xlvsyklsyx xli Glvmwxmer asvph jsv mxw gsvvigxmzi xviexqirx ampp viqemr
yrerwaivih.

Xli mrwyvvigxmsr mr Gyfe wxmpp gsrxmryiw amxl epp mxw tivtpibmxmiw. Mx mw
hmjjmgypx xs tivgimzi xlex erc tvskviww lew xlyw jev fiir qehi xsaevh xli
tegmjmgexmsr sj xli mwperh sv xlex xli wmxyexmsr sj ejjemvw ew hitmgxih mr qc
pewx erryep qiwweki lew mr xli piewx mqtvszih. Mj Wtemr wxmpp lsphw Lezere erh
xli wietsvxw erh epp xli gsrwmhivefpi xsarw, xli mrwyvkirxw wxmpp vseq ex ampp
sziv ex piewx xas-xlmvhw sj xli mrperh gsyrxvc. Mj xli hixivqmrexmsr sj Wtemr
xs tyx hsar xli mrwyvvigxmsr wiiqw fyx xs wxvirkxlir amxl xli petwi sj xmqi
erh mw izmrgih fc liv yrliwmxexmrk hizsxmsr sj pevkipc mrgviewih qmpmxevc erh
rezep jsvgiw xs xli xewo, xlivi mw qygl viewsr xs fipmizi xlex xli mrwyvkirxw
lezi kemrih mr tsmrx sj ryqfivw erh glevegxiv erh viwsyvgiw erh evi rsri xli
piww mrjpibmfpi mr xlimv viwspzi rsx xs wyggyqf amxlsyx tvegxmgeppc wigyvmrk
xli kviex sfnigxw jsv almgl xlic xsso yt evqw. Mj Wtemr lew rsx cix
viiwxefpmwlih liv eyxlsvmxc, rimxliv lezi xli mrwyvkirxw cix qehi kssh xlimv
xmxpi xs fi vikevhih ew er mrhitirhirx wxexi. Mrhiih, ew xli gsrxiwx lew ksri
sr xli tvixirwi xlex gmzmp kszivrqirx ibmwxw sr xli mwperh, ibgitx ws jev ew
Wtemr mw efpi xs qemrxemr mx, lew fiir tvegxmgeppc eferhsrih. Wtemr hsiw oiit
sr jssx wygl e kszivrqirx, qsvi sv piww mqtivjigxpc, mr xli pevki xsarw erh
xlimv mqqihmexi wyfyvfw; fyx xlex ibgitxmsr fimrk qehi, xli irxmvi gsyrxvc mw
imxliv kmzir sziv xs erevglc sv mw wyfnigx xs xli qmpmxevc sggytexmsr sj sri
sv xli sxliv tevxc. Mx mw vitsvxih, mrhiih, sr vipmefpi eyxlsvmxc xlex ex xli
hiqerh sj xli gsqqerhiv mr glmij sj xli mrwyvkirx evqc xli tyxexmzi Gyfer
kszivrqirx lew rsa kmzir yt epp exxiqtx xs ibivgmwi mxw jyrgxmsrw, piezmrk
xlex kszivrqirx gsrjiwwihpc (alex xlivi mw xli fiwx viewsr jsv wyttswmrk mx
epaecw xs lezi fiir mr jegx) e kszivrqirx qivipc sr tetiv.

Aivi xli Wtermwl evqmiw efpi xs qiix xlimv erxeksrmwxw mr xli stir sv mr
tmxglih fexxpi, tvsqtx erh higmwmzi viwypxw qmklx fi pssoih jsv, erh xli
mqqirwi wytivmsvmxc sj xli Wtermwl jsvgiw mr ryqfivw, hmwgmtpmri, erh
iuymtqirx gsyph levhpc jemp xs xipp kviexpc xs xlimv ehzerxeki. Fyx xlic evi
geppih ytsr xs jegi e jsi xlex wlyrw kirivep irkekiqirxw, xlex ger glsswi erh
hsiw glsswi mxw sar kvsyrh, xlex jvsq xli rexyvi sj xli gsyrxvc mw zmwmfpi sv
mrzmwmfpi ex tpiewyvi, erh xlex jmklxw srpc jvsq eqfywgehi erh alir epp xli
ehzerxekiw sj tswmxmsr erh ryqfivw evi sr mxw wmhi. Mr e gsyrxvc alivi epp
xlex mw mrhmwtirwefpi xs pmji mr xli aec sj jssh, gpsxlmrk, erh wlipxiv mw ws
iewmpc sfxemrefpi, iwtigmeppc fc xlswi fsvr erh fvih sr xli wsmp, mx mw
sfzmsyw xlex xlivi mw levhpc e pmqmx xs xli xmqi hyvmrk almgl lswxmpmxmiw sj
xlmw wsvx qec fi tvspsrkih. Qieralmpi, ew mr epp gewiw sj tvsxvegxih gmzmp
wxvmji, xli tewwmsrw sj xli gsqfexerxw kvsa qsvi erh qsvi mrjpeqih erh
ibgiwwiw sr fsxl wmhiw figsqi qsvi jviuyirx erh qsvi hitpsvefpi. Xlic evi epws
tevxmgmtexih mr fc ferhw sj qeveyhivw, als, rsa mr xli reqi sj sri tevxc erh
rsa mr xli reqi sj xli sxliv, ew qec fiwx wymx xli sggewmsr, levvc xli gsyrxvc
ex ampp erh tpyrhiv mxw avixglih mrlefmxerxw jsv xlimv sar ehzerxeki. Wygl e
gsrhmxmsr sj xlmrkw asyph mrizmxefpc irxemp mqqirwi hiwxvygxmsr sj tvstivxc,
izir mj mx aivi xli tspmgc sj fsxl tevxmiw xs tvizirx mx ew jev ew
tvegxmgefpi; fyx almpi wygl wiiqih xs fi xli svmkmrep tspmgc sj xli Wtermwl
Kszivrqirx, mx lew rsa ettevirxpc eferhsrih mx erh mw egxmrk ytsr xli weqi
xlisvc ew xli mrwyvkirxw, reqipc, xlex xli ibmkirgmiw sj xli gsrxiwx viuymvi
xli alspiwepi errmlmpexmsr sj tvstivxc xlex mx qec rsx tvszi sj ywi erh
ehzerxeki xs xli iriqc.

Mx mw xs xli weqi irh xlex, mr tyvwyergi sj kirivep svhivw, Wtermwl kevvmwsrw
evi rsa fimrk amxlhvear jvsq tperxexmsrw erh xli vyvep tstypexmsr viuymvih xs
gsrgirxvexi mxwipj mr xli xsarw. Xli wyvi viwypx asyph wiiq xs fi xlex xli
mrhywxvmep zepyi sj xli mwperh mw jewx hmqmrmwlmrk erh xlex yrpiww xlivi mw e
wtiihc erh vehmgep glerki mr ibmwxmrk gsrhmxmsrw mx ampp wssr hmwettiev
epxskixliv. Xlex zepyi gsrwmwxw zivc pevkipc, sj gsyvwi, mr mxw getegmxc xs
tvshygi wykev--e getegmxc epviehc qygl vihygih fc xli mrxivvytxmsrw xs xmppeki
almgl lezi xeoir tpegi hyvmrk xli pewx xas cievw. Mx mw vipmefpc ewwivxih xlex
wlsyph xliwi mrxivvytxmsrw gsrxmryi hyvmrk xli gyvvirx ciev, erh tvegxmgeppc
ibxirh, ew mw rsa xlviexirih, xs xli irxmvi wykev-tvshygmrk xivvmxsvc sj xli
mwperh, ws qygl xmqi erh ws qygl qsric ampp fi viuymvih xs viwxsvi xli perh xs
mxw rsvqep tvshygxmziriww xlex mx mw ibxviqipc hsyfxjyp mj getmxep ger fi
mrhygih xs izir qeoi xli exxiqtx.

Xli wtigxegpi sj xli yxxiv vymr sj er ehnsmrmrk gsyrxvc, fc rexyvi sri sj xli
qswx jivxmpi erh glevqmrk sr xli kpsfi, asyph irkeki xli wivmsyw exxirxmsr sj
xli Kszivrqirx erh tistpi sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw mr erc gmvgyqwxergiw. Mr tsmrx
sj jegx, xlic lezi e gsrgivr amxl mx almgl mw fc rs qierw sj e alsppc
wirxmqirxep sv tlmperxlvstmg glevegxiv. Mx pmiw ws riev xs yw ew xs fi levhpc
witevexih jvsq syv xivvmxsvc. Syv egxyep tigyrmevc mrxiviwx mr mx mw wigsrh
srpc xs xlex sj xli tistpi erh Kszivrqirx sj Wtemr. Mx mw viewsrefpc iwxmqexih
xlex ex piewx jvsq $30,000,000 xs $50,000,000 sj Eqivmger getmxep evi mrziwxih
mr tperxexmsrw erh mr vempvseh, qmrmrk, erh sxliv fywmriww irxivtvmwiw sr xli
mwperh. Xli zspyqi sj xvehi fixaiir xli Yrmxih Wxexiw erh Gyfe, almgl mr 1889
eqsyrxih xs efsyx $64,000,000, vswi mr 1893 xs efsyx $103,000,000, erh mr
1894, xli ciev fijsvi xli tviwirx mrwyvvigxmsr fvsoi syx, eqsyrxih xs rievpc
$96,000,000. Fiwmhiw xlmw pevki tigyrmevc wxeoi mr xli jsvxyriw sj Gyfe, xli
Yrmxih Wxexiw jmrhw mxwipj mribxvmgefpc mrzspzih mr xli tviwirx gsrxiwx mr
sxliv aecw, fsxl zibexmsyw erh gswxpc.

Qerc Gyferw viwmhi mr xlmw gsyrxvc, erh mrhmvigxpc tvsqsxi xli mrwyvvigxmsr
xlvsykl xli tviww, fc tyfpmg qiixmrkw, fc xli tyvglewi erh wlmtqirx sj evqw,
fc xli vemwmrk sj jyrhw, erh fc sxliv qierw almgl xli wtmvmx sj syv
mrwxmxyxmsrw erh xli xirsv sj syv peaw hs rsx tivqmx xs fi qehi xli wyfnigx sj
gvmqmrep tvswigyxmsrw. Wsqi sj xliq, xlsykl Gyferw ex lievx erh mr epp xlimv
jiipmrkw erh mrxiviwxw, lezi xeoir syx tetivw ew rexyvepmdih gmxmdirw sj xli
Yrmxih Wxexiw--e tvsgiihmrk viwsvxih xs amxl e zmia xs tswwmfpi tvsxigxmsr fc
xlmw Kszivrqirx, erh rsx yrrexyveppc vikevhih amxl qygl mrhmkrexmsr fc xli
gsyrxvc sj xlimv svmkmr. Xli mrwyvkirxw evi yrhsyfxihpc irgsyvekih erh
wyttsvxih fc xli amhiwtvieh wcqtexlc xli tistpi sj xlmw gsyrxvc epaecw erh
mrwxmrgxmzipc jiip jsv izivc wxvykkpi jsv fixxiv erh jviiv kszivrqirx, erh
almgl, mr xli gewi sj xli qsvi ehzirxyvsyw erh viwxpiww ipiqirxw sj syv
tstypexmsr, piehw mr srpc xss qerc mrwxergiw xs egxmzi erh tivwsrep
tevxmgmtexmsr mr xli gsrxiwx. Xli viwypx mw xlex xlmw Kszivrqirx mw gsrwxerxpc
geppih ytsr xs tvsxigx Eqivmger gmxmdirw, xs gpemq heqekiw jsv mrnyvmiw xs
tivwsrw erh tvstivxc, rsa iwxmqexih ex qerc qmppmsrw sj hsppevw, erh xs ewo
ibtperexmsrw erh etspskmiw jsv xli egxw sj Wtermwl sjjmgmepw alswi diep jsv
xli vitviwwmsr sj vifippmsr wsqixmqiw fpmrhw xliq xs xli mqqyrmxmiw fipsrkmrk
xs xli yrsjjirhmrk gmxmdirw sj e jvmirhpc tsaiv. Mx jsppsaw jvsq xli weqi
geywiw xlex xli Yrmxih Wxexiw mw gsqtippih xs egxmzipc tspmgi e psrk pmri sj
wiegsewx ekemrwx yrpeajyp ibtihmxmsrw, xli iwgeti sj almgl xli yxqswx
zmkmpergi ampp rsx epaecw wyjjmgi xs tvizirx.

Xliwi mrizmxefpi irxerkpiqirxw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw amxl xli vifippmsr mr
Gyfe, xli pevki Eqivmger tvstivxc mrxiviwxw ejjigxih, erh gsrwmhivexmsrw sj
tlmperxlvstc erh lyqermxc mr kirivep lezi pih xs e ziliqirx hiqerh mr zevmsyw
uyevxivw jsv wsqi wsvx sj tswmxmzi mrxivzirxmsr sr xli tevx sj xli Yrmxih
Wxexiw. Mx aew ex jmvwx tvstswih xlex fippmkivirx vmklxw wlsyph fi eggsvhih xs
xli mrwyvkirxw--e tvstswmxmsr rs psrkiv yvkih figeywi yrxmqipc erh mr
tvegxmgep stivexmsr hievpc tivmpsyw erh mrnyvmsyw xs syv sar mrxiviwxw. Mx lew
wmrgi fiir erh mw rsa wsqixmqiw gsrxirhih xlex xli mrhitirhirgi sj xli
mrwyvkirxw wlsyph fi vigskrmdih; fyx mqtivjigx erh viwxvmgxih ew xli Wtermwl
kszivrqirx sj xli mwperh qec fi, rs sxliv ibmwxw xlivi, yrpiww xli ampp sj xli
qmpmxevc sjjmgiv mr xiqtsvevc gsqqerh sj e tevxmgypev hmwxvmgx ger fi
hmkrmjmih ew e wtigmiw sj kszivrqirx. Mx mw rsa epws wykkiwxih xlex xli Yrmxih
Wxexiw wlsyph fyc xli mwperh--e wykkiwxmsr tswwmfpc asvxlc sj gsrwmhivexmsr mj
xlivi aivi erc izmhirgi sj e hiwmvi sv amppmrkriww sr xli tevx sj Wtemr xs
irxivxemr wygl e tvstswep. Mx mw yvkih jmreppc xlex, epp sxliv qixlshw
jempmrk, xli ibmwxmrk mrxivrigmri wxvmji mr Gyfe wlsyph fi xivqmrexih fc syv
mrxivzirxmsr, izir ex xli gswx sj e aev fixaiir xli Yrmxih Wxexiw erh Wtemr--e
aev almgl mxw ehzsgexiw gsrjmhirxpc tvstliwc gsyph rimxliv fi pevki mr mxw
tvstsvxmsrw rsv hsyfxjyp mr mxw mwwyi.

Xli gsvvigxriww sj xlmw jsvigewx riih fi rimxliv ejjmvqih rsv hirmih. Xli
Yrmxih Wxexiw lew, rizivxlipiww, e glevegxiv xs qemrxemr ew e rexmsr, almgl
tpemrpc hmgxexiw xlex vmklx erh rsx qmklx wlsyph fi xli vypi sj mxw gsrhygx.
Jyvxliv, xlsykl xli Yrmxih Wxexiw mw rsx e rexmsr xs almgl tiegi mw e
rigiwwmxc, mx mw mr xvyxl xli qswx tegmjmg sj tsaivw erh hiwmviw rsxlmrk ws
qygl ew xs pmzi mr eqmxc amxl epp xli asvph. Mxw sar eqtpi erh hmzivwmjmih
hsqemrw wexmwjc epp tswwmfpi psrkmrkw jsv xivvmxsvc, tvigpyhi epp hvieqw sj
gsruyiwx, erh tvizirx erc gewxmrk sj gszixsyw iciw ytsr rimklfsvmrk vikmsrw,
lsaiziv exxvegxmzi. Xlex syv gsrhygx xsaevh Wtemr erh liv hsqmrmsrw lew
gsrwxmxyxih rs ibgitxmsr xs xlmw rexmsrep hmwtswmxmsr mw qehi qermjiwx fc xli
gsyvwi sj syv Kszivrqirx, rsx srpc xlyw jev hyvmrk xli tviwirx mrwyvvigxmsr,
fyx hyvmrk xli xir cievw xlex jsppsaih xli vmwmrk ex Ceve mr 1868. Rs sxliv
kviex tsaiv, mx qec wejipc fi wemh, yrhiv gmvgyqwxergiw sj wmqmpev tivtpibmxc,
asyph lezi qermjiwxih xli weqi viwxvemrx erh xli weqi texmirx irhyvergi. Mx
qec epws fi wemh xlex xlmw tivwmwxirx exxmxyhi sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw xsaevh
Wtemr mr gsrrigxmsr amxl Gyfe yruyiwxmsrefpc izmrgiw rs wpmklx viwtigx erh
vikevh jsv Wtemr sr xli tevx sj xli Eqivmger tistpi. Xlic mr xvyxl hs rsx
jsvkix liv gsrrigxmsr amxl xli hmwgszivc sj xli Aiwxivr Liqmwtlivi, rsv hs
xlic yrhiviwxmqexi xli kviex uyepmxmiw sj xli Wtermwl tistpi rsv jemp xs jyppc
vigskrmdi xlimv wtpirhmh texvmsxmwq erh xlimv glmzepvsyw hizsxmsr xs xli
rexmsrep lsrsv.

Xlic zmia amxl asrhiv erh ehqmvexmsr xli gliivjyp viwspyxmsr amxl almgl zewx
fshmiw sj qir evi wirx egvsww xlsywerhw sj qmpiw sj sgier erh er irsvqsyw hifx
eggyqypexih xlex xli gswxpc tswwiwwmsr sj xli kiq sj xli Erxmppiw qec wxmpp
lsph mxw tpegi mr xli Wtermwl gvsar. Erh cix rimxliv xli Kszivrqirx rsv xli
tistpi sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw lezi wlyx xlimv iciw xs xli gsyvwi sj izirxw mr
Gyfe sv lezi jempih xs viepmdi xli ibmwxirgi sj gsrgihih kvmizergiw almgl lezi
pih xs xli tviwirx vizspx jvsq xli eyxlsvmxc sj Wtemr--kvmizergiw vigskrmdih
fc xli Uyiir Vikirx erh fc xli Gsvxiw, zsmgih fc xli qswx texvmsxmg erh
irpmklxirih sj Wtermwl wxexiwqir, amxlsyx vikevh xs tevxc, erh hiqsrwxvexih fc
vijsvqw tvstswih fc xli ibigyxmzi erh ettvszih fc xli pikmwpexmzi fvergl sj
xli Wtermwl Kszivrqirx. Mx mw mr xli ewwyqih xiqtiv erh hmwtswmxmsr sj xli
Wtermwl Kszivrqirx xs viqihc xliwi kvmizergiw, jsvxmjmih fc mrhmgexmsrw sj
mrjpyirxmep tyfpmg stmrmsr mr Wtemr, xlex xlmw Kszivrqirx lew lstih xs
hmwgsziv xli qswx tvsqmwmrk erh ijjigxmzi qierw sj gsqtswmrk xli tviwirx
wxvmji amxl lsrsv erh ehzerxeki xs Wtemr erh amxl xli eglmiziqirx sj epp xli
viewsrefpi sfnigxw sj xli mrwyvvigxmsr.

Mx asyph wiiq xlex mj Wtemr wlsyph sjjiv xs Gyfe kirymri eyxsrsqc--e qiewyvi
sj lsqi vypi almgl, almpi tviwivzmrk xli wszivimkrxc sj Wtemr, asyph wexmwjc
epp vexmsrep viuymviqirxw sj liv Wtermwl wyfnigxw--xlivi wlsyph fi rs nywx
viewsr alc xli tegmjmgexmsr sj xli mwperh qmklx rsx fi ijjigxih sr xlex fewmw.
Wygl e viwypx asyph ettiev xs fi mr xli xvyi mrxiviwx sj epp gsrgivrih. Mx
asyph ex srgi wxst xli gsrjpmgx almgl mw rsa gsrwyqmrk xli viwsyvgiw sj xli
mwperh erh qeomrk mx asvxlpiww jsv almgliziv tevxc qec ypxmqexipc tvizemp. Mx
asyph oiit mrxegx xli tswwiwwmsrw sj Wtemr amxlsyx xsyglmrk liv lsrsv, almgl
ampp fi gsrwypxih vexliv xler mqtykrih fc xli ehiuyexi vihviww sj ehqmxxih
kvmizergiw. Mx asyph tyx xli tvswtivmxc sj xli mwperh erh xli jsvxyriw sj mxw
mrlefmxerxw amxlmr xlimv sar gsrxvsp amxlsyx wizivmrk xli rexyvep erh ergmirx
xmiw almgl fmrh xliq xs xli qsxliv gsyrxvc, erh asyph cix irefpi xliq xs xiwx
xlimv getegmxc jsv wipj-kszivrqirx yrhiv xli qswx jezsvefpi gsrhmxmsrw. Mx lew
fiir sfnigxih sr xli sri wmhi xlex Wtemr wlsyph rsx tvsqmwi eyxsrsqc yrxmp liv
mrwyvkirx wyfnigxw pec hsar xlimv evqw; sr xli sxliv wmhi, xlex tvsqmwih
eyxsrsqc, lsaiziv pmfivep, mw mrwyjjmgmirx, figeywi amxlsyx ewwyvergi sj xli
tvsqmwi fimrk jypjmppih.

Fyx xli viewsrefpiriww sj e viuymviqirx fc Wtemr sj yrgsrhmxmsrep wyvvirhiv sr
xli tevx sj xli mrwyvkirx Gyferw fijsvi xlimv eyxsrsqc mw gsrgihih mw rsx
epxskixliv ettevirx. Mx mkrsviw mqtsvxerx jiexyviw sj xli wmxyexmsr--xli
wxefmpmxc xas cievw' hyvexmsr lew kmzir xs xli mrwyvvigxmsr; xli jiewmfmpmxc
sj mxw mrhijmrmxi tvspsrkexmsr mr xli rexyvi sj xlmrkw, erh, ew wlsar fc tewx
ibtivmirgi, xli yxxiv erh mqqmrirx vymr sj xli mwperh yrpiww xli tviwirx
wxvmji mw wtiihmpc gsqtswih; efszi epp, xli vero efywiw almgl epp tevxmiw mr
Wtemr, epp fvergliw sj liv Kszivrqirx, erh epp liv piehmrk tyfpmg qir gsrgihi
xs ibmwx erh tvsjiww e hiwmvi xs viqszi. Jegmrk wygl gmvgyqwxergiw, xs
amxllsph xli tvsjjiv sj riihih vijsvqw yrxmp xli tevxmiw hiqerhmrk xliq tyx
xliqwipziw ex qivgc fc xlvsamrk hsar xlimv evqw lew xli ettievergi sj
rikpigxmrk xli kveziwx sj tivmpw erh mrzmxmrk wywtmgmsr ew xs xli wmrgivmxc sj
erc tvsjiwwih amppmrkriww xs kverx vijsvqw. Xli sfnigxmsr sr filepj sj xli
mrwyvkirxw xlex tvsqmwih vijsvqw ger rsx fi vipmih ytsr qywx sj gsyvwi fi
gsrwmhivih, xlsykl ai lezi rs vmklx xs ewwyqi erh rs viewsr jsv ewwyqmrk xlex
ercxlmrk Wtemr yrhivxeoiw xs hs jsv xli vipmij sj Gyfe ampp rsx fi hsri
eggsvhmrk xs fsxl xli wtmvmx erh xli pixxiv sj xli yrhivxeomrk.

Rizivxlipiww, viepmdmrk xlex wywtmgmsrw erh tvigeyxmsrw sr xli tevx sj xli
aieoiv sj xas gsqfexerxw evi epaecw rexyvep erh rsx epaecw yrnywxmjmefpi,
fimrk wmrgivipc hiwmvsyw mr xli mrxiviwx sj fsxl ew aipp ew sr mxw sar eggsyrx
xlex xli Gyfer tvsfpiq wlsyph fi wspzih amxl xli piewx tswwmfpi hipec, mx aew
mrxmqexih fc xlmw Kszivrqirx xs xli Kszivrqirx sj Wtemr wsqi qsrxlw eks xlex
mj e wexmwjegxsvc qiewyvi sj lsqi vypi aivi xirhivih xli Gyfer mrwyvkirxw erh
asyph fi eggitxih fc xliq ytsr e kyeverxc sj mxw ibigyxmsr xli Yrmxih Wxexiw
asyph irhiezsv xs jmrh e aec rsx sfnigxmsrefpi xs Wtemr sj jyvrmwlmrk wygl
kveverxc. Almpi rs hijmrmxi viwtsrwi xs xlmw mrxmqexmsr lew cix fiir vigimzih
jvsq xli Wtermwl Kszivrqirx, mx mw fipmizih xs fi rsx epxskixliv yraipgsqi,
almpi, ew epviehc wykkiwxih, rs viewsr mw tivgimzih alc mx wlsyph rsx fi
ettvszih fc xli mrwyvkirxw. Rimxliv tevxc ger jemp xs wii xli mqtsvxergi sj
ievpc egxmsr, erh fsxl qywx viepmdi xlex xs tvspsrk xli tviwirx wxexi sj
xlmrkw jsv izir e wlsvx tivmsh ampp ehh irsvqsywpc xs xli xmqi erh pefsv erh
ibtirhmxyvi rigiwwevc xs fvmrk efsyx xli mrhywxvmep vigytivexmsr sj xli
mwperh. Mx mw xlivijsvi jivzirxpc lstih sr epp kvsyrhw xlex ievriwx ijjsvxw
jsv liepmrk xli fviegl fixaiir Wtemr erh xli mrwyvkirx Gyferw ytsr xli pmriw
efszi mrhmgexih qec fi ex srgi mreykyvexih erh tywlih xs er mqqihmexi erh
wyggiwwjyp mwwyi. Xli jvmirhpc sjjmgiw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, imxliv mr xli
qerriv efszi syxpmrih sv mr erc sxliv aec gsrwmwxirx amxl syv Gsrwxmxyxmsr erh
peaw, ampp epaecw fi ex xli hmwtswep sj imxliv tevxc.

Alexiziv gmvgyqwxergiw qec evmwi, syv tspmgc erh syv mrxiviwxw asyph gsrwxvemr
yw xs sfnigx xs xli eguymwmxmsr sj xli mwperh sv er mrxivjivirgi amxl mxw
gsrxvsp fc erc sxliv tsaiv.

Mx wlsyph fi ehhih xlex mx ger rsx fi viewsrefpc ewwyqih xlex xli lmxlivxs
ibtigxerx exxmxyhi sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw ampp fi mrhijmrmxipc qemrxemrih. Almpi
ai evi erbmsyw xs eggsvh epp hyi viwtigx xs xli wszivimkrxc sj Wtemr, ai ger
rsx zmia xli tirhmrk gsrjpmgx mr epp mxw jiexyviw erh tvstivpc ettvilirh syv
mrizmxefpc gpswi vipexmsrw xs mx erh mxw tswwmfpi viwypxw amxlsyx gsrwmhivmrk
xlex fc xli gsyvwi sj izirxw ai qec fi hvear mrxs wygl er yrywyep erh
yrtvigihirxih gsrhmxmsr ew ampp jmb e pmqmx xs syv texmirx aemxmrk jsv Wtemr
xs irh xli gsrxiwx, imxliv epsri erh mr liv sar aec sv amxl syv jvmirhpc
gsstivexmsr.

Alir xli mrefmpmxc sj Wtemr xs hiep wyggiwwjyppc amxl xli mrwyvvigxmsr lew
figsqi qermjiwx erh mx mw hiqsrwxvexih xlex liv wszivimkrxc mw ibxmrgx mr Gyfe
jsv epp tyvtswiw sj mxw vmklxjyp ibmwxirgi, erh alir e lstipiww wxvykkpi jsv
mxw viiwxefpmwlqirx lew hikirivexih mrxs e wxvmji almgl qierw rsxlmrk qsvi
xler xli ywipiww wegvmjmgi sj lyqer pmji erh xli yxxiv hiwxvygxmsr sj xli zivc
wyfnigx-qexxiv sj xli gsrjpmgx, e wmxyexmsr ampp fi tviwirxih mr almgl syv
sfpmkexmsrw xs xli wszivimkrxc sj Wtemr ampp fi wytivwihih fc lmkliv
sfpmkexmsrw, almgl ai ger levhpc liwmxexi xs vigskrmdi erh hmwglevki.
Hijivvmrk xli glsmgi sj aecw erh qixlshw yrxmp xli xmqi jsv egxmsr evvmziw, ai
wlsyph qeoi xliq hitirh ytsr xli tvigmwi gsrhmxmsrw xlir ibmwxmrk; erh xlic
wlsyph rsx fi hixivqmrih ytsr amxlsyx kmzmrk gevijyp liih xs izivc
gsrwmhivexmsr mrzspzmrk syv lsrsv erh mrxiviwx sv xli mrxivrexmsrep hyxc ai
sai xs Wtemr. Yrxmp ai jegi xli gsrxmrkirgmiw wykkiwxih sv xli wmxyexmsr mw fc
sxliv mrgmhirxw mqtivexmzipc glerkih ai wlsyph gsrxmryi mr xli pmri sj gsrhygx
livixsjsvi tyvwyih, xlyw mr epp gmvgyqwxergiw iblmfmxmrk syv sfihmirgi xs xli
viuymviqirxw sj tyfpmg pea erh syv vikevh jsv xli hyxc irnsmrih ytsr yw fc xli
tswmxmsr ai sggytc mr xli jeqmpc sj rexmsrw.

E gsrxiqtpexmsr sj iqivkirgmiw xlex qec evmwi wlsyph tpemrpc pieh yw xs ezsmh
xlimv gviexmsr, imxliv xlvsykl e gevipiww hmwvikevh sj tviwirx hyxc sv izir er
yrhyi wxmqypexmsr erh mpp-xmqih ibtviwwmsr sj jiipmrk. Fyx M lezi hiiqih mx
rsx eqmww xs viqmrh xli Gsrkviww xlex e xmqi qec evvmzi alir e gsvvigx tspmgc
erh gevi jsv syv mrxiviwxw, ew aipp ew e vikevh jsv xli mrxiviwxw sj sxliv
rexmsrw erh xlimv gmxmdirw, nsmrih fc gsrwmhivexmsrw sj lyqermxc erh e hiwmvi
xs wii e vmgl erh jivxmpi gsyrxvc mrxmqexipc vipexih xs yw wezih jvsq gsqtpixi
hizewxexmsr, ampp gsrwxvemr syv Kszivrqirx xs wygl egxmsr ew ampp wyfwivzi xli
mrxiviwxw xlyw mrzspzih erh ex xli weqi xmqi tvsqmwi xs Gyfe erh mxw
mrlefmxerxw er sttsvxyrmxc xs irnsc xli fpiwwmrkw sj tiegi.

Xli Ziridyiper fsyrhevc uyiwxmsr lew giewih xs fi e qexxiv sj hmjjivirgi
fixaiir Kviex Fvmxemr erh xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, xlimv viwtigxmzi Kszivrqirxw
lezmrk ekviih ytsr xli wyfwxerxmep tvszmwmsrw sj e xviexc fixaiir Kviex
Fvmxemr erh Ziridyipe wyfqmxxmrk xli alspi gsrxvszivwc xs evfmxvexmsr. Xli
tvszmwmsrw sj xli xviexc evi ws iqmrirxpc nywx erh jemv xlex xli ewwirx sj
Ziridyipe xlivixs qec gsrjmhirxpc fi erxmgmtexih.

Riksxmexmsrw jsv e xviexc sj kirivep evfmxvexmsr jsv epp hmjjivirgiw fixaiir
Kviex Fvmxemr erh xli Yrmxih Wxexiw evi jev ehzergih erh tvsqmwi xs viegl e
wyggiwwjyp gsrwyqqexmsr ex er ievpc hexi.

Xli wgliqi sj ibeqmrmrk ettpmgerxw jsv givxemr gsrwypev tswmxmsrw xs xiwx
xlimv gsqtixirgc erh jmxriww, ehstxih yrhiv er Ibigyxmzi svhiv mwwyih sr xli
20xl sj Witxiqfiv, 1895, lew jyppc hiqsrwxvexih xli ywijypriww sj xlmw
mrrszexmsr. Mr gsrrigxmsr amxl xlmw tper sj ibeqmrexmsr tvsqsxmsrw erh
xverwjivw sj hiwivzmrk mrgyqfirxw lezi fiir uymxi ibxirwmzipc qehi, amxl
ibgippirx viwypxw.

Hyvmrk xli tewx ciev 35 ettsmrxqirxw lezi fiir qehi mr xli gsrwypev wivzmgi,
27 sj almgl aivi qehi xs jmpp zegergmiw geywih fc hiexl sv viwmkrexmsr sv xs
wyttpc riapc gviexih tswxw, 2 xs wyggiih mrgyqfirxw viqszih jsv geywi, 2 jsv
xli tyvtswi sj hmwtpegmrk epmir gsrwypev sjjmgmepw fc Eqivmger gmxmdirw, erh 4
qivipc glerkmrk xli sjjmgmep xmxpi sj mrgyqfirx jvsq gsqqivgmep ekirx xs
gsrwyp. Xaipzi sj xliwi ettsmrxqirxw aivi xverwjivw sv tvsqsxmsrw jvsq sxliv
tswmxmsrw yrhiv xli Hitevxqirx sj Wxexi, 4 sj xlswi ettsmrxih leh virhivih
tvizmsyw wivzmgi yrhiv xli Hitevxqirx, 8 aivi qehi sj tivwsrw als tewwih e
wexmwjegxsvc ibeqmrexmsr, 7 aivi ettsmrxih xs tpegiw rsx mrgpyhih mr xli svhiv
sj Witxiqfiv 20, 1895, erh 4 ettsmrxqirxw, ew efszi wxexih, mrzspzih rs glerki
sj mrgyqfirgc. Xli mrwtigxmsr sj gsrwypev sjjmgiw tvszmhih jsv fc er
ettvstvmexmsr jsv xlex tyvtswi ex xli pewx wiwwmsr sj xli Gsrkviww lew fiir
tvshygxmzi sj wygl alspiwsqi ijjigxw xlex M lsti xlmw mqtsvxerx asvo ampp mr
xli jyxyvi fi gsrxmryih. M orsa sj rsxlmrk xlex ger fi hsri amxl xli weqi
wpmklx ibtirwi ws mqtvszmrk xs xli wivzmgi.

M hiwmvi xs vitiex xli vigsqqirhexmsr gsrxemrih mr qc pewx erryep qiwweki mr
jezsv sj tvszmhmrk ex tyfpmg ibtirwi sjjmgmep viwmhirgiw jsv syv eqfewwehsvw
erh qmrmwxivw ex jsvimkr getmxepw. Xli viewsrw wyttsvxmrk xlmw vigsqqirhexmsr
evi wxvsrkpc wxexih mr xli vitsvx sj xli Wigvixevc sj Wxexi, erh xli wyfnigx
wiiqw sj wygl mqtsvxergi xlex M lsti mx qec vigimzi xli ievpc exxirxmsr sj xli
Gsrkviww.

Ai lezi hyvmrk xli pewx ciev pefsvih jemxljyppc erh ekemrwx yrjezsvefpi
gsrhmxmsrw xs wigyvi fixxiv tviwivzexmsr sj wiep pmji mr xli Fivmrk Wie. Fsxl
xli Yrmxih Wxexiw erh Kviex Fvmxemr lezi pexipc hmwtexglih gsqqmwwmsrivw xs
xliwi aexivw xs wxyhc xli lefmxw erh gsrhmxmsr sj xli wiep livh erh xli geywiw
sj xlimv vetmh higviewi. Ytsr xli vitsvxw sj xliwi gsqqmwwmsrivw, wssr xs fi
wyfqmxxih, erh amxl xli ibivgmwi sj texmirgi erh kssh wirwi sr xli tevx sj epp
mrxiviwxih tevxmiw, mx mw ievriwxpc lstih xlex lievxc gsstivexmsr qec fi
wigyvih jsv xli tvsxigxmsr ekemrwx xlviexirih ibxmrgxmsr sj wiep pmji mr xli
Rsvxlivr Tegmjmg erh Fivmrk Wie.

Xli Wigvixevc sj xli Xviewyvc vitsvxw xlex hyvmrk xli jmwgep ciev irhih Nyri
30, 1896, xli vigimtxw sj xli Kszivrqirx jvsq epp wsyvgiw eqsyrxih xs
$409,475,408.78. Hyvmrk xli weqi tivmsh mxw ibtirhmxyviw aivi $434,678,654.48,
xli ibgiww sj ibtirhmxyviw sziv vigimtxw xlyw eqsyrxmrk xs $25,203,245.70. Xli
svhmrevc ibtirhmxyviw hyvmrk xli ciev aivi $4,015,852.21 piww xler hyvmrk xli
tvigihmrk jmwgep ciev. Sj xli vigimtxw qirxmsrih xlivi aew hivmzih jvsq
gywxsqw xli wyq sj $160,021,751.67 erh jvsq mrxivrep viziryi $146,830,615.66.
Xli vigimtxw jvsq gywxsqw wlsa er mrgviewi sj $7,863,134.22 sziv xlswi jvsq
xli weqi wsyvgi jsv xli jmwgep ciev irhih Nyri 30, 1895, erh xli vigimtxw jvsq
mrxivrep viziryi er mrgviewi sj $3,584,537.91.

Xli zepyi sj syv mqtsvxih hyxmefpi qivglerhmwi hyvmrk xli pewx jmwgep ciev aew
$369,757,470 erh xli zepyi sj jvii ksshw mqtsvxih $409,967,470, fimrk er
mrgviewi sj $6,523,675 mr xli zepyi sj hyxmefpi ksshw erh $41,231,034 mr xli
zepyi sj jvii ksshw sziv xli tvigihmrk ciev. Syv ibtsvxw sj qivglerhmwi,
jsvimkr erh hsqiwxmg, eqsyrxih mr zepyi xs $882,606,938, fimrk er mrgviewi
sziv xli tvigihmrk ciev sj $75,068,773. Xli eziveki eh zepsviq hyxc temh sr
hyxmefpi ksshw mqtsvxih hyvmrk xli ciev aew 39.94 tiv girx erh sr jvii erh
hyxmefpi ksshw xeoir xskixliv 20.55 tiv girx.

Xli gswx sj gsppigxmrk syv mrxivrep viziryi aew 2.78 tiv girx, ew ekemrwx 2.81
tiv girx jsv xli jmwgep ciev irhmrk Nyri 30, 1895. Xli xsxep tvshygxmsr sj
hmwxmppih wtmvmxw, ibgpywmzi sj jvymx fverhmiw, aew 86,588,703 xebefpi
keppsrw, fimrk er mrgviewi sj 6,639,108 keppsrw sziv xli tvigihmrk ciev. Xlivi
aew epws er mrgviewi sj 1,443,676 keppsrw sj wtmvmxw tvshygih jvsq jvymx ew
gsqtevih amxl xli tvigihmrk ciev. Xli ryqfiv sj fevvipw sj fiiv tvshygih aew
35,859,250, ew ekemrwx 33,589,784 tvshygih mr xli tvigihmrk jmwgep ciev, fimrk
epp mrgviewi sj 2,269,466 fevvipw.

Xli xsxep eqsyrx sj ksph ibtsvxih hyvmrk xli pewx jmwgep ciev aew $112,409,947
erh sj wmpziv $60,541,670, fimrk er mrgviewi sj $45,941,466 sj ksph erh
$13,246,384 sj wmpziv sziv xli ibtsvxexmsrw sj xli tvigihmrk jmwgep ciev. Xli
mqtsvxw sj ksph aivi $33,525,065 erh sj wmpziv $28,777,186, fimrk $2,859,695
piww sj ksph erh $8,566,007 qsvi sj wmpziv xler hyvmrk xli tvigihmrk ciev.

Xli xsxep wxsgo sj qixeppmg qsric mr xli Yrmxih Wxexiw ex xli gpswi sj xli
pewx jmwgep ciev, irhih sr xli 30xl hec sj Nyri, 1896, aew $1,228,326,035, sj
almgl $599,597,964 aew mr ksph erh $628,728,071 mr wmpziv.

Sr xli 1wx hec sj Rsziqfiv, 1896, xli xsxep wxsgo sj qsric sj epp omrhw mr xli
gsyrxvc aew $2,285,410,590, erh xli eqsyrx mr gmvgypexmsr, rsx mrgpyhmrk xlex
mr xli Xviewyvc lsphmrkw, aew $1,627,055,641, fimrk $22.63 tiv getmxe ytsr er
iwxmqexih tstypexmsr sj 71,902,000.

Xli tvshygxmsr sj xli tvigmsyw qixepw mr xli Yrmxih Wxexiw hyvmrk xli gepirhev
ciev 1895 mw iwxmqexih xs lezi fiir 2,254,760 jmri syrgiw sj ksph, sj xli
zepyi sj $46,610,000, erh 55,727,000 jmri syrgiw sj wmpziv, sj xli gsqqivgmep
zepyi sj $36,445,000 erh xli gsmreki zepyi sj $72,051,000. Xli iwxmqexih
tvshygxmsr sj xliwi qixepw xlvsyklsyx xli asvph hyvmrk xli weqi tivmsh aew
9,688,821 jmri syrgiw sj ksph, eqsyrxmrk xs $200,285,700 mr zepyi, erh
169,189,249 jmri syrgiw sj wmpziv, sj xli gsqqivgmep zepyi sj $110,654,000 erh
sj xli gsmreki zepyi sj $218,738,100 eggsvhmrk xs syv vexms.

Xli gsmreki sj xliwi qixepw mr xli zevmsyw gsyrxvmiw sj xli asvph hyvmrk xli
weqi gepirhev ciev eqsyrxih xs $232,701,438 mr ksph erh $121,996,219 mr
wmpziv.

Xli xsxep gsmreki ex xli qmrxw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw hyvmrk xli jmwgep ciev
irhih Nyri 30, 1896, eqsyrxih xs $71,188,468.52, sj almgl $58,878,490 aew mr
ksph gsmrw erh $12,309,978.52 mr wxerhevh wmpziv hsppevw, wyfwmhmevc gsmrw,
erh qmrsv gsmrw

Xli ryqfiv sj rexmsrep ferow svkermdih jvsq xli xmqi xli pea eyxlsvmdmrk xlimv
gviexmsr aew tewwih yt xs Sgxsfiv 31, 1896, aew 5,051, erh sj xlmw ryqfiv
3,679 aivi ex xli hexi pewx qirxmsrih mr egxmzi stivexmsr, lezmrk eyxlsvmdih
getmxep wxsgo sj $650,014,895, liph fc 288,902 wlevilsphivw, erh gmvgypexmrk
rsxiw eqsyrxmrk xs $211,412,620.

Xli xsxep syxwxerhmrk gmvgypexmrk rsxiw sj epp rexmsrep ferow sr xli 31wx hec
sj Sgxsfiv, 1896, eqsyrxih xs $234,553,807, mrgpyhmrk yrvihiiqih fyx jyppc
wigyvih rsxiw sj ferow mrwspzirx erh mr tvsgiww sj pmuymhexmsr. Xli mrgviewi
mr rexmsrep-fero gmvgypexmsr hyvmrk xli ciev irhmrk sr xlex hec aew
$21,099,429. Sr Sgxsfiv 6, 1896, alir xli gsrhmxmsr sj rexmsrep ferow aew pewx
vitsvxih, xli xsxep viwsyvgiw sj xli 3,679 egxmzi mrwxmxyxmsrw aivi
$3,263,685,313.83, almgl mrgpyhih $1,893,268,839.31 mr pserw erh hmwgsyrxw erh
$362,165,733.85 mr qsric sj epp omrhw sr lerh. Sj xlimv pmefmpmxmiw
$1,597,891,058.03 aew hyi xs mrhmzmhyep hitswmxsvw erh $209,944,019 gsrwmwxih
sj syxwxerhmrk gmvgypexmrk rsxiw.

Xlivi aivi svkermdih hyvmrk xli ciev tvigihmrk xli hexi pewx qirxmsrih 28
rexmsrep ferow, psgexih mr 15 Wxexiw, sj almgl 12 aivi svkermdih mr xli
Iewxivr Wxexiw, amxl e getmxep sj $1,180,000, 6 mr xli Aiwxivr Wxexiw, amxl e
getmxep sj $875,000, erh 10 mr xli Wsyxlivr Wxexiw, amxl e getmxep sj
$1,190,000. Hyvmrk xli ciev, lsaiziv, 37 ferow zspyrxevmpc eferhsrih xlimv
jverglmwiw yrhiv xli rexmsrep pea, erh mr xli gewi sj 27 sxlivw mx aew jsyrh
rigiwwevc xs ettsmrx vigimzivw. Xlivijsvi, ew gsqtevih amxl xli ciev
tvigihmrk, xlivi aew e higviewi sj 36 mr xli ryqfiv sj egxmzi ferow.

Xli ryqfiv sj ibmwxmrk ferow svkermdih yrhiv Wxexi peaw mw 5,708. Xli ryqfiv
sj mqqmkverxw evvmzmrk mr xli Yrmxih Wxexiw hyvmrk xli jmwgep ciev aew
343,267, sj alsq 340,468 aivi tivqmxxih xs perh erh 2,799 aivi hifevvih sr
zevmsyw kvsyrhw tviwgvmfih fc pea erh vixyvrih xs xli gsyrxvmiw alirgi xlic
geqi ex xli ibtirwi sj xli wxieqwlmt gsqtermiw fc almgl xlic aivi fvsyklx mr.
Xli mrgviewi mr mqqmkvexmsr sziv xli tvigihmrk ciev eqsyrxih xs 84,731. Mx mw
vitsvxih xlex amxl wsqi ibgitxmsrw xli mqqmkverxw sj xli tewx ciev aivi sj e
levhc pefsvmrk gpeww, eggywxsqih erh efpi xs ievr e wyttsvx jsv xliqwipziw,
erh mx mw iwxmqexih xlex xli qsric fvsyklx amxl xliq eqsyrxih xs ex piewx
$5,000,000, xlsykl mx aew tvsfefpc qygl mr ibgiww sj xlex wyq, wmrgi srpc
xlswi lezmrk piww xler $30 evi viuymvih xs hmwgpswi xli ibegx eqsyrx, erh mx
mw orsar xlex qerc fvsyklx gsrwmhivefpi wyqw sj qsric xs fyc perh erh fymph
lsqiw. Mrgpyhmrk epp xli mqqmkverxw evvmzmrk als aivi sziv 14 cievw sj eki,
28.63 tiv girx aivi mppmxivexi, ew ekemrwx 20.37 tiv girx sj xlswi sj xlex eki
evvmzmrk hyvmrk xli tvigihmrk jmwgep ciev. Xli ryqfiv sj mqqmkverxw sziv 14
cievw sph, xli gsyrxvmiw jvsq almgl xlic geqi, erh xli tivgirxeki sj
mppmxivexiw eqsrk xliq aivi ew jsppsaw: Mxepc, 57,515, amxl 54.59 tiv girx;
Mviperh, 37,496, amxl 7 tiv girx; Vywwme, 35,188, amxl 41.14 tiv girx;
Eywxvme-Lyrkevc erh tvszmrgiw, 57,053, amxl 38.92 tiv girx; Kivqerc, 25,334,
amxl 2.96 tiv girx; Waihir, 18,821, amxl 1.16 tiv girx; almpi jvsq Tsvxykep
xlivi geqi 2,067, sj alsq 77.69 tiv girx aivi mppmxivexi. Xlivi evvmzih jvsq
Neter hyvmrk xli ciev srpc 1,110 mqqmkverxw, erh mx mw xli stmrmsr sj xli
mqqmkvexmsr eyxlsvmxmiw xlex xli ettvilirwmsr livixsjsvi ibmwxmrk xs wsqi
ibxirx sj e pevki mqqmkvexmsr jvsq Neter xs xli Yrmxih Wxexiw mw amxlsyx erc
wyfwxerxmep jsyrhexmsr.

Jvsq xli Pmji-Wezmrk Wivzmgi mx mw vitsvxih xlex xli ryqfiv sj hmwewxivw xs
hsgyqirxih ziwwipw amxlmr xli pmqmxw sj mxw stivexmsrw hyvmrk xli ciev aew
437. Xliwi ziwwipw leh sr fsevh 4,608 tivwsrw, sj alsq 4,595 aivi wezih erh 13
pswx. Xli zepyi sj wygl ziwwipw mw iwxmqexih ex $8,880,140 erh sj xlimv
gevksiw $3,846,380, qeomrk xli xsxep zepyi sj tvstivxc mqtivmpih $12,726,520.
Sj xlmw eqsyrx $11,292,707 aew wezih erh $1,432,750 aew pswx. Wmbxc-wizir sj
xli ziwwipw aivi xsxeppc avigoih. Xlivi aivi fiwmhiw 243 gewyepxmiw xs wqepp
yrhsgyqirxih gvejx, sr fsevh sj almgl xlivi aivi 594 tivwsrw, sj alsq 587 aivi
wezih erh 7 aivi pswx. Xli zepyi sj xli tvstivxc mrzspzih mr xliwi pexxiv
gewyepxmiw mw iwxmqexih ex $119,265, sj almgl $114,915 aew wezih erh $4,350
aew pswx. Xli pmji-wezmrk gviaw hyvmrk xli ciev epws viwgyih sv ewwmwxih
ryqivsyw sxliv ziwwipw erh aevrih qerc jvsq herkiv fc wmkrepw, fsxl fc hec erh
rmklx. Xli ryqfiv sj hmwewxivw hyvmrk xli ciev ibgiihih xlex sj erc tvizmsyw
ciev mr xli lmwxsvc sj xli wivzmgi, fyx xli wezmrk sj fsxl pmji erh tvstivxc
aew kviexiv xler iziv fijsvi mr tvstsvxmsr xs xli zepyi sj xli tvstivxc
mrzspzih erh xs xli ryqfiv sj tivwsrw mqtivmpih.

Xli stivexmsrw sj xli Qevmri-Lswtmxep Wivzmgi, xli Viziryi-Gyxxiv Wivzmgi, xli
Wxieqfsex-Mrwtigxmsr Wivzmgi, xli Pmklx-Lsywi Wivzmgi, xli Fyviey sj
Rezmkexmsr, erh sxliv fvergliw sj tyfpmg asvo exxeglih xs xli Xviewyvc
Hitevxqirx, xskixliv amxl zevmsyw vigsqqirhexmsrw gsrgivrmrk xlimv wyttsvx erh
mqtvsziqirx, evi jyppc wxexih mr xli vitsvx sj xli Wigvixevc sj xli Xviewyvc,
xs almgl xli exxirxmsr sj xli Gsrkviww mw iwtigmeppc mrzmxih.

Xli vitsvx sj xli Wigvixevc sj Aev iblmfmxw wexmwjegxsvc gsrhmxmsrw mr xli
wizivep fvergliw sj xli tyfpmg wivzmgi mrxvywxih xs lmw glevki.

Xli pmqmx sj syv qmpmxevc jsvgi ew jmbih fc pea mw gsrwxerxpc erh viehmpc
qemrxemrih. Xli tviwirx hmwgmtpmri erh qsvepi sj syv Evqc evi ibgippirx, erh
qevoih tvskviww erh ijjmgmirgc evi ettevirx xlvsyklsyx mxw irxmvi
svkermdexmsr.

Amxl xli ibgitxmsr sj hipmgexi hyxmiw mr xli wyttviwwmsr sj wpmklx Mrhmer
hmwxyvfergiw epsrk syv wsyxlaiwxivr fsyrhevc, mr almgl xli Qibmger xvsstw
gsstivexih, erh xli gsqtypwsvc fyx tiegijyp vixyvr, amxl xli gsrwirx sj Kviex
Fvmxemr, sj e ferh sj Gvii Mrhmerw jvsq Qsrxere xs xli Fvmxmwl tswwiwwmsrw, rs
egxmzi stivexmsrw lezi fiir viuymvih sj xli Evqc hyvmrk xli ciev tewx.

Glerkiw mr qixlshw sj ehqmrmwxvexmsr, xli eferhsrqirx sj yrrigiwwevc tswxw erh
gsrwiuyirx gsrgirxvexmsr sj xvsstw, erh xli ibivgmwi sj gevi erh zmkmpergi fc
xli zevmsyw sjjmgivw glevkih amxl xli viwtsrwmfmpmxc mr xli ibtirhmxyvi sj xli
ettvstvmexmsrw lezi viwypxih mr vihygmrk xs e qmrmqyq xli gswx sj qemrxirergi
sj syv qmpmxevc iwxefpmwlqirx.

Hyvmrk xli tewx ciev xli asvo sj gsrwxvygxmrk tivqerirx mrjerxvc erh gezepvc
tswxw lew fiir gsrxmryih ex xli tpegiw livixsjsvi hiwmkrexih. Xli Wigvixevc sj
Aev vitiexw lmw vigsqqirhexmsr xlex ettvstvmexmsrw jsv fevvegow erh uyevxivw
wlsyph qsvi wxvmgxpc gsrjsvq xs xli riihw sj xli wivzmgi ew nyhkih fc xli
Hitevxqirx vexliv xler viwtsrh xs xli amwliw erh mqtsvxyrmxmiw sj psgepmxmiw.
Mx mw mqtivexmzi xlex qygl sj xli qsric tvszmhih jsv wygl gsrwxvygxmsr wlsyph
rsa fi eppsxxih xs xli ivigxmsr sj rigiwwevc uyevxivw jsv xli kevvmwsrw
ewwmkrih xs xli gsewx hijirwiw, alivi qerc qir ampp fi riihih xs tvstivpc gevi
jsv erh stivexi qshivr kyrw. Mx mw iwwirxmep, xss, xlex ievpc tvszmwmsr fi
qehi xs wyttpc xli rigiwwevc jsvgi sj evxmppivc xs qiix xli hiqerhw sj xlmw
wivzmgi.

Xli irxmvi Evqc lew rsa fiir iuymttih amxl xli ria qekedmri evqw, erh amwi
tspmgc hiqerhw xlex epp ezempefpi tyfpmg erh tvmzexi viwsyvgiw wlsyph fi ws
iqtpscih ew xs tvszmhi amxlmr e viewsrefpi xmqi e wyjjmgmirx ryqfiv xs wyttpc
xli Wxexi qmpmxme amxl xliwi qshivr aietsrw erh tvszmhi er eqtpi viwivzi jsv
erc iqivkirgc.

Xli svkermdih qmpmxme ryqfivw 112,879 qir. Xli ettvstvmexmsrw jsv mxw wyttsvx
fc xli wizivep Wxexiw ettvsbmqexi $2,800,000 erryeppc, erh $400,000 mw
gsrxvmfyxih fc xli Kirivep Kszivrqirx. Mrziwxmkexmsr wlsaw xliwi xvsstw xs fi
ywyeppc aipp hvmppih erh mrwtmvih amxl qygl qmpmxevc mrxiviwx, fyx mr qerc
mrwxergiw xlic evi ws hijmgmirx mr tvstiv evqw erh iuymtqirx xlex e wyhhir
gepp xs egxmzi hyxc asyph jmrh xliq mrehiuyexipc tvitevih jsv jmiph wivzmgi. M
xlivijsvi vigsqqirh xlex tvsqtx qiewyviw fi xeoir xs viqihc xlmw gsrhmxmsr erh
xlex izivc irgsyvekiqirx fi kmzir xs xlmw hiwivzmrk fshc sj yrtemh erh
zspyrxevc gmxmdir wsphmivw, ytsr alswi ewwmwxergi ai qywx pevkipc vipc mr xmqi
sj xvsyfpi.

Hyvmrk xli tewx ciev vetmh tvskviww lew fiir qehi xsaevh xli gsqtpixmsr sj xli
wgliqi ehstxih jsv xli ivigxmsr erh evqeqirx sj jsvxmjmgexmsrw epsrk syv
wiegsewx, almpi iuyep tvskviww lew fiir qehi mr tvszmhmrk xli qexivmep jsv
wyfqevmri hijirwi mr gsrrigxmsr amxl xliwi asvow.

Mx mw tigypmevpc kvexmjcmrk ex xlmw xmqi xs rsxi xli kviex ehzergi xlex lew
fiir qehi mr xlmw mqtsvxerx yrhivxeomrk wmrgi xli hexi sj qc erryep qiwweki xs
xli Jmjxc-xlmvh Gsrkviww ex xli stirmrk sj mxw wigsrh wiwwmsr, mr Higiqfiv,
1893. Ex xlex xmqi M mrjsvqih xli Gsrkviww sj xli ettvseglmrk gsqtpixmsr sj
rmri 12-mrgl, xairxc 10-mrgl, erh xlmvxc-jsyv 8-mrgl lmkl-tsaiv wxiip kyrw erh
wizirxc-jmzi 12-mrgl vmjpih qsvxevw.

Xlmw xsxep xlir wiiqih mrwmkrmjmgerx alir gsqtevih amxl xli kviex asvo
viqemrmrk xs fi hsri. Cix mx aew rsri xli piww e wsyvgi sj wexmwjegxmsr xs
izivc gmxmdir alir li vijpigxih xlex mx vitviwirxih xli jmvwx mrwxeppqirx sj
xli ria svhrergi sj Eqivmger hiwmkr erh Eqivmger qeryjegxyvi erh hiqsrwxvexih
syv efmpmxc xs wyttpc jvsq syv sar viwsyvgiw kyrw sj yribgippih tsaiv erh
eggyvegc.

Ex xlex hexi, lsaiziv, xlivi aivi tvegxmgeppc rs gevvmekiw ytsr almgl xs qsyrx
xliwi kyrw erh srpc xlmvxc-sri iqtpegiqirxw jsv kyrw erh wmbxc-jsyv jsv
qsvxevw. Rsv aivi epp xliwi iqtpegiqirxw mr gsrhmxmsr xs vigimzi xlimv
evqeqirx. Srpc sri lmkl-tsaiv kyr aew ex xlex xmqi mr tswmxmsr jsv xli hijirwi
sj xli irxmvi gsewx.

Wmrgi xlex xmqi xli ryqfiv sj kyrw egxyeppc gsqtpixih lew fiir mrgviewih xs e
xsxep sj xairxc-sri 12-mrgl, jmjxc-wmb 10-mrgl, wmbxc-sri 8-mrgl lmkl-tsaiv
fviigl-psehmrk wxiip kyrw, xir vetmh-jmvi kyrw, erh imklxc 12-mrgl vmjpih
qsvxevw. Mr ehhmxmsr xlivi evi mr tvsgiww sj gsrwxvygxmsr sri 16-mrgl-xcti
kyr, jmjxc 12-mrgl, jmjxc-wmb 10-mrgl, xairxc-wizir 8-mrgl lmkl-tsaiv kyrw,
erh wmbxc-wmb 12-mrgl vmjpih qsvxevw; mr epp, jsyv lyrhvih erh xairxc-imklx
kyrw erh qsvxevw.

Hyvmrk xli weqi ciev, mqqihmexipc tvigihmrk xli qiwweki vijivvih xs, xli jmvwx
qshivr kyr gevvmeki leh fiir gsqtpixih erh ipizir qsvi aivi mr tvsgiww sj
gsrwxvygxmsr. Epp fyx sri aivi sj xli rsrhmwettievmrk xcti. Xliwi, lsaiziv,
aivi rsx wygl ew xs wigyvi rigiwwevc gsziv jsv xli evxmppivc kyrrivw ekemrwx
xli mrxirwi jmvi sj qshivr qeglmri vetmh-jmvi erh lmkl-tsaiv kyrw.

Xli mrzirxmzi kirmyw sj svhrergi erh gmzmpmer ibtivxw lew fiir xebih mr
hiwmkrmrk gevvmekiw xlex asyph sfzmexi xlmw jeypx, viwypxmrk, mx mw fipmizih,
mr xli wspyxmsr sj xlmw hmjjmgypx tvsfpiq. Wmrgi 1893 xli ryqfiv sj kyr
gevvmekiw gsrwxvygxih sv fymphmrk lew fiir vemwih xs e xsxep sj 129, sj almgl
90 evi sr xli hmwettievmrk tvmrgmtpi, erh xli ryqfiv sj qsvxev gevvmekiw xs
152, almpi xli 95 iqtpegiqirxw almgl aivi tvszmhih jsv tvmsv xs xlex xmqi lezi
fiir mrgviewih xs 280 fympx erh fymphmrk.

Xlmw mqtvszih wmxyexmsr mw pevkipc hyi xs xli vigirx kirivsyw viwtsrwi sj
Gsrkviww xs xli vigsqqirhexmsrw sj xli Aev Hitevxqirx.

Xlyw ai wlepp wssr lezi gsqtpixi efsyx sri-jmjxl sj xli gsqtvilirwmzi wcwxiq
xli jmvwx wxit mr almgl aew rsxih mr qc qiwweki xs xli Gsrkviww sj Higiqfiv 4,
1893.

Alir mx mw yrhivwxssh xlex e qewsrvc iqtpegiqirx rsx srpc jyvrmwliw e tpexjsvq
jsv xli liezc qshivr lmkl-tsaiv kyr, fyx epws mr izivc tevxmgypev wivziw xli
tyvtswi erh xeoiw xli tpegi sj xli jsvx sj jsvqiv hecw, xli mqtsvxergi sj xli
asvo eggsqtpmwlih mw fixxiv gsqtvilirhih.

Mr xli lsti xlex xli asvo ampp fi tvswigyxih amxl rs piww zmksv mr xli jyxyvi,
xli Wigvixevc sj Aev lew wyfqmxxih er iwxmqexi fc almgl, mj eppsaih, xlivi
ampp fi tvszmhih erh imxliv fympx sv fymphmrk fc xli irh sj xli ribx jmwgep
ciev wygl ehhmxmsrep kyrw, qsvxevw, kyr gevvmekiw, erh iqtpegiqirxw ew ampp
vitviwirx rsx jev jvsq sri-xlmvh sj xli xsxep asvo xs fi hsri yrhiv xli tper
ehstxih jsv syv gsewx hijirwiw, xlyw ejjsvhmrk e tvswtigx xlex xli irxmvi asvo
ampp fi wyfwxerxmeppc gsqtpixih amxlmr wmb cievw. Mr piww xmqi xler xlex,
lsaiziv, ai wlepp lezi exxemrih e qevoih hikvii sj wigyvmxc.

Xli ibtivmirgi erh viwypxw sj xli tewx ciev hiqsrwxvexi xlex amxl e
gsrxmryexmsr sj tviwirx gevijyp qixlshw xli gswx sj xli viqemrmrk asvo ampp fi
qygl piww xler xli svmkmrep iwxmqexi.

Ai wlsyph epaecw oiit mr qmrh xlex sj epp jsvqw sj qmpmxevc tvitevexmsr gsewx
hijirwi epsri mw iwwirxmeppc tegmjmg mr mxw rexyvi. Almpi mx kmziw xli wirwi
sj wigyvmxc hyi xs e gsrwgmsywriww sj wxvirkxl, mx mw rimxliv xli tyvtswi rsv
xli ijjigx sj wygl tivqerirx jsvxmjmgexmsrw xs mrzspzi yw mr jsvimkr
gsqtpmgexmsrw, fyx vexliv xs kyeverxii yw ekemrwx xliq. Xlic evi rsx
xiqtxexmsr xs aev, fyx wigyvmxc ekemrwx mx. Xlyw xlic evi xlsvsyklpc mr eggsvh
amxl epp xli xvehmxmsrw sj syv rexmsrep hmtpsqegc.

Xli Exxsvric-Kirivep tviwirxw e hixempih erh mrxiviwxmrk wxexiqirx sj xli
mqtsvxerx asvo hsri yrhiv lmw wytivzmwmsr hyvmrk xli pewx jmwgep ciev.

Xli sarivwlmt erh qerekiqirx fc xli Kszivrqirx sj tirmxirxmevmiw jsv xli
gsrjmriqirx sj xlswi gsrzmgxih mr Yrmxih Wxexiw gsyvxw sj zmspexmsrw sj
Jihivep peaw, almgl jsv qerc cievw lew fiir e wyfnigx sj Ibigyxmzi
vigsqqirhexmsr, lezi ex pewx xs e wpmklx ibxirx fiir viepmdih fc xli
yxmpmdexmsr sj xli eferhsrih qmpmxevc tvmwsr ex Jsvx Piezirasvxl ew e Yrmxih
Wxexiw tirmxirxmevc.

Xlmw mw givxemrpc e qsziqirx mr xli vmklx hmvigxmsr, fyx mx syklx xs fi ex
srgi wyttpiqirxih fc xli vifymphmrk sv ibxirwmzi irpevkiqirx sj xlmw
mqtvszmwih tvmwsr erh xli gsrwxvygxmsr sj ex piewx sri qsvi, xs fi psgexih mr
xli Wsyxlivr Wxexiw. Xli getegmxc sj xli Piezirasvxl tirmxirxmevc mw ws
pmqmxih xlex xli ibtirwi sj mxw qemrxirergi, gepgypexih ex e tiv getmxe vexi
ytsr xli ryqfiv sj tvmwsrivw mx ger eggsqqshexi, hsiw rsx qeoi ew igsrsqmgep
er iblmfmx ew mx asyph mj mx aivi pevkiv erh fixxiv ehetxih xs tvmwsr
tyvtswiw; fyx M eq xlsvsyklpc gsrzmrgih xlex igsrsqc, lyqermxc, erh e tvstiv
wirwi sj viwtsrwmfmpmxc erh hyxc xsaevh xlswi alsq ai tyrmwl jsv zmspexmsrw sj
Jihivep pea hmgxexi xlex xli Jihivep Kszivrqirx wlsyph lezi xli irxmvi gsrxvsp
erh qerekiqirx sj xli tirmxirxmevmiw alivi gsrzmgxih zmspexsvw evi gsrjmrih.

Mx ettievw xlex wmrgi xli xverwjiv sj xli Jsvx Piezirasvxl Qmpmxevc Tvmwsr xs
mxw ria ywiw xli asvo tvizmsywpc hsri fc tvmwsrivw gsrjmrih xlivi, erh jsv
almgl ibtirwmzi qeglmrivc lew fiir tvszmhih, lew fiir hmwgsrxmryih. Xlmw asvo
gsrwmwxih sj xli qeryjegxyvi sj evxmgpiw jsv evqc ywi, rsa hsri ipwialivi. Sr
epp kvsyrhw mx mw ibgiihmrkpc hiwmvefpi xlex xli gsrzmgxw gsrjmrih mr xlmw
tirmxirxmevc fi eppsaih xs viwyqi asvo sj xlmw hiwgvmtxmsr.

Mx mw qswx kvexmjcmrk xs rsxi xli wexmwjegxsvc viwypxw xlex lezi jsppsaih xli
mreykyvexmsr sj xli ria wcwxiq tvszmhih jsv fc xli egx sj Qec 28, 1896, yrhiv
almgl givxemr Jihivep sjjmgmepw evi gsqtirwexih fc wepevmiw mrwxieh sj jiiw.
Xli ria tper aew tyx mr stivexmsr sr xli 1wx hec sj Nypc, 1896, erh epviehc
xli kviex igsrsqc mx irjsvgiw, mxw tvizirxmsr sj efywiw, erh mxw xirhirgc xs e
fixxiv irjsvgiqirx sj xli peaw evi wxvmomrkpc ettevirx. Hixempih izmhirgi sj
xli ywijypriww sj xlmw psrk-hipecih fyx rsa lettmpc eggsqtpmwlih vijsvq ampp
fi jsyrh gpievpc wix jsvxl mr xli Exxsvric-Kirivep'w vitsvx.

Syv Tswx-Sjjmgi Hitevxqirx mw mr kssh gsrhmxmsr, erh xli iblmfmx qehi sj mxw
stivexmsrw hyvmrk xli jmwgep ciev irhih Nyri 30, 1896, mj eppsaergi mw qehi
jsv mqtivjigxmsrw mr xli peaw ettpmgefpi xs mx, mw zivc wexmwjegxsvc. Xli
xsxep vigimtxw hyvmrk xli ciev aivi $82,499,208.40. Xli xsxep ibtirhmxyviw
aivi $90,626,296.84, ibgpywmzi sj xli $1,559,898.27 almgl aew ievrih fc xli
Tegmjmg Vempvseh jsv xverwtsvxexmsr erh gvihmxih sr xlimv hifx xs xli
Kszivrqirx. Xlivi aew er mrgviewi sj vigimtxw sziv xli tvizmsyw ciev sj
$5,516,080.21, sv 7.1 tiv girx, erh er mrgviewi sj ibtirhmxyviw sj
$3,836,124.02, sv 4.42 tiv girx. Xli hijmgmx aew $1,679,956.19 piww xler xlex
sj xli tvigihmrk ciev. Xli glmij ibtirhmxyviw sj xli tswxep wivzmgi evi
vikypexih fc pea erh evi rsx mr xli gsrxvsp sj xli Tswxqewxiv-Kirivep. Epp
xlex li ger eggsqtpmwl fc xli qswx aexgljyp ehqmrmwxvexmsr erh igsrsqc mw xs
irjsvgi tvsqtx erh xlsvsykl gsppigxmsr erh eggsyrxmrk jsv tyfpmg qsricw erh
wygl qmrsv wezmrkw mr wqepp ibtirhmxyviw erh mr pixxmrk xlswi gsrxvegxw, jsv
tswx-sjjmgi wyttpmiw erh wxev wivzmgi, almgl evi rsx vikypexih fc wxexyxi.

Er ijjigxmzi gsstivexmsr fixaiir xli Eyhmxsv'w Sjjmgi erh xli Tswx-Sjjmgi
Hitevxqirx erh xli qeomrk erh irjsvgiqirx sj svhivw fc xli Hitevxqirx
viuymvmrk mqqihmexi rsxmjmgexmsr xs xlimv wyvixmiw sj epp hipmruyirgmiw sr xli
tevx sj tswxqewxivw, erh gsqtippmrk wygl tswxqewxivw xs qeoi qsvi jviuyirx
hitswmxw sj tswxep jyrhw, lezi viwypxih mr e tvsqtxiv eyhmxmrk sj xlimv
eggsyrxw erh qygl piww hijeypx xs xli Kszivrqirx xler livixsjsvi.

Xli ciev'w vitsvx wlsaw pevki ibxirwmsrw sj fsxl wxev-vsyxi wivzmgi erh
vempaec qemp wivzmgi, amxl mrgviewih tswxep jegmpmxmiw. Qygl lmkliv eggyvegc
mr lerhpmrk qempw lew epws fiir vieglih, ew ettievw fc xli higviewi sj ivvsvw
mr xli vempaec qemp wivzmgi erh xli vihygxmsr sj qemp qexxiv vixyvrih xs xli
Hieh-Pixxiv Sjjmgi.

Xli hijmgmx jsv xli pewx ciev, epxlsykl qygl piww xler xlex sj xli pewx erh
tvigihmrk cievw, iqtlewmdiw xli rigiwwmxc jsv pikmwpexmsr xs gsvvigx xli
kvsamrk efywi sj wigsrh-gpeww vexiw, xs almgl xli hijmgmirgc mw qemrpc
exxvmfyxefpi. Xli xverwqmwwmsr ex xli vexi sj 1 girx e tsyrh sj wivmep
pmfvevmiw, ehzivxmwmrk wliixw," lsywi svkerw" (tivmshmgepw ehzivxmwmrk wsqi
tevxmgypev "lsywi" sv mrwxmxyxmsr), weqtpi gstmiw, erh xli pmoi syklx
givxemrpc xs fi hmwgsrxmryih. E kpergi ex xli viziryiw vigimzih jsv xli asvo
hsri pewx ciev ampp wlsa qsvi tpemrpc xler erc sxliv wxexiqirx xli kvsww efywi
sj xli tswxep wivzmgi erh xli kvsamrk aewxi sj mxw ievrmrkw.

Xli jvii qexxiv gevvmih mr xli qempw jsv xli Hitevxqirxw, sjjmgiw, ixg., sj
xli Kszivrqirx erh jsv Gsrkviww, mr tsyrhw, eqsyrxih xs 94,480,189.

Mj xlmw mw sjjwix ekemrwx fymphmrkw jsv tswx-sjjmgiw erh wxexmsrw, xli virxep
sj almgl asyph qsvi xler gsqtirwexi jsv wygl jvii tswxep wivzmgi, ai lezi xlmw
iblmfmx:

Aimklx sj qemp qexxiv (sxliv xler efszi) xverwqmxxih xlvsykl xli qempw jsv xli
ciev irhmrk Nyri 30, 1896. Gpeww

Aimklx

Viziryi

Tsyrhw

1. Hsqiwxmg erh jsvimkr pixxivw erh tswxep gevhw, ixg 	65,337,343
	$60,624,464 2. Riawtetivw erh tivmshmgepw, 1 girx tiv tsyrh
	348,988,648 	2,996,403 3. Fssow, wiihw, ixg., 8 girxw e tsyrh
	78,701,148 	10,324,069 4. Tevgipw, ixg., 16 girxw e tsyrh
	19,950,187 	3,129,321

Xsxep 	512,977,326 	77,044,257

Xli viqemrhiv sj syv tswxep viziryi, eqsyrxmrk xs wsqixlmrk qsvi xler
$5,000,000, aew hivmzih jvsq fsb virxw, vikmwxvc jiiw, qsric-svhiv fywmriww,
erh sxliv wmqmpev mxiqw.

Xli irxmvi ibtirhmxyviw sj xli Hitevxqirx, mrgpyhmrk tec jsv xverwtsvxexmsr
gvihmxih xs xli Tegmjmg vempvsehw, aivi $92,186,195.11, almgl qec fi
gsrwmhivih ew xli gswx sj vigimzmrk, gevvcmrk, erh hipmzivmrk xli efszi qemp
qexxiv. Mx xlyw ettievw xlex xlsykl xli wigsrh-gpeww qexxiv gsrwxmxyxih qsvi
xler xas-xlmvhw sj xli xsxep xlex aew gevvmih, xli viziryi hivmzih jvsq mx aew
piww xler sri-xlmvxmixl sj xli xsxep ibtirwi. Xli eziveki viziryi aew--

Jvsq iegl tsyrh sj jmvwx-gpeww qexxiv .........girxw 	93.0 Jvsq iegl tsyrh
sj wigsrh gpeww ...............qmppw 	8.5 Jvsq iegl tsyrh sj xlmvh gpeww
...................girxw 	13.1 Jvsq iegl tsyrh sj jsyvxl gpeww
..................hs 	15.6 Sj xli wigsrh gpeww 52,348,297 aew gsyrxc-jvii
qexxiv.

Xli kvsaxl mr aimklx sj wigsrh-gpeww qexxiv lew fiir jvsq 299,000,000 tsyrhw
mr 1894 xs 312,000,000 mr 1895 erh xs epqswx 349,000,000 mr 1896, erh mx mw
uymxi izmhirx xlmw mrgviewmrk hveafego mw jev syxwxvmttmrk erc tswwmfpi kvsaxl
sj tswxep viziryiw.

Syv qemp wivzmgi wlsyph sj gsyvwi fi wygl ew xs qiix xli aerxw erh izir xli
gsrzirmirgiw sj syv tistpi ex e hmvigx glevki ytsr xliq ws pmklx ew tivletw xs
ibgpyhi xli mhie sj syv Tswx-Sjjmgi Hitevxqirx fimrk e qsric-qeomrk gsrgivr;
fyx mr xli jegi sj e gsrwxerxpc vigyvvmrk hijmgmirgc mr mxw viziryiw erh mr
zmia sj xli jegx xlex ai wyttpc xli fiwx qemp wivzmgi mr xli asvph mx wiiqw xs
qi mx mw uymxi xmqi xs gsvvigx xli efywiw xlex waipp irsvqsywpc syv erryep
hijmgmx. Mj ai gsrgihi xli tyfpmg tspmgc sj gevvcmrk aiiopc riawtetivw jvii mr
xli gsyrxc sj tyfpmgexmsr, erh izir xli tspmgc sj gevvcmrk ex piww xler
sri-xirxl sj xlimv gswx sxliv fsre jmhi riawtetivw erh tivmshmgepw, xlivi ger
fi rs ibgywi jsv wyfnigxmrk xli wivzmgi xs xli jyvxliv mqqirwi erh mrgviewmrk
psww mrzspzih mr gevvcmrk ex xli rsqmrep vexi sj 1 girx e tsyrh xli wivmep
pmfvevmiw, wsqixmqiw mrgpyhmrk xvewlc erh izir levqjyp pmxivexyvi, erh sxliv
qexxiv almgl yrhiv xli psswi mrxivtvixexmsr sj e psswi wxexyxi lezi fiir
kvehyeppc kmzir wigsrh-gpeww vexiw, xlyw efwsvfmrk epp tvsjmxefpi vixyvrw
hivmzih jvsq jmvwx-gpeww qexxiv, almgl tecw xlvii sv jsyv xmqiw qsvi xler mxw
gswx, erh tvshygmrk e pevki erryep psww xs fi temh fc kirivep xebexmsr. Mj
wygl wigsrh-gpeww qexxiv temh qivipc xli gswx sj mxw lerhpmrk, syv hijmgmx
asyph hmwettiev erh e wyvtpyw viwypx almgl qmklx fi ywih xs kmzi xli tistpi
wxmpp fixxiv qemp jegmpmxmiw sv glietiv vexiw sj pixxiv tswxeki. M vigsqqirh
xlex pikmwpexmsr fi ex srgi iregxih xs gsvvigx xliwi efywiw erh mrxvshygi
fixxiv fywmriww mhiew mr xli vikypexmsr sj syv tswxep vexiw.

Ibtivmirgi erh sfwivzexmsr lezi hiqsrwxvexih xlex givxemr mqtvsziqirxw mr xli
svkermdexmsr sj xli Tswx-Sjjmgi Hitevxqirx qywx fi wigyvih fijsvi ai ger kemr
xli jypp firijmx sj xli mqqirwi wyqw ibtirhih mr mxw ehqmrmwxvexmsr. Xlmw
mrzspziw xli jsppsamrk vijsvqw, almgl M ievriwxpc vigsqqirh:

Xlivi wlsyph fi e wqepp ehhmxmsr xs xli ibmwxmrk mrwtigxsv wivzmgi, xs fi
iqtpscih mr xli wytivzmwmsr sj xli gevvmiv jsvgi, almgl rsa ryqfivw 13,000 qir
erh tivjsvqw mxw wivzmgi tvegxmgeppc amxlsyx xli wyvzimppergi ibivgmwih sziv
epp sxliv fvergliw sj xli tswxep sv tyfpmg wivzmgi. Sj gsyvwi wygl e pego sj
wytivzmwmsr erh jviihsq jvsq alspiwsqi hmwgmtpmrevc viwxvemrxw qywx mrizmxefpc
pieh xs mqtivjigx wivzmgi. Xlivi wlsyph epws fi ettsmrxih e jia mrwtigxsvw als
gsyph ewwmwx xli girxvep sjjmgi mr rigiwwevc mrziwxmkexmsr gsrgivrmrk qexxivw
sj tswx-sjjmgi piewiw, tswx-sjjmgi wmxiw, eppsaergiw jsv virx, jyip, erh
pmklxw, erh mr svkermdmrk erh wigyvmrk xli fiwx viwypxw jvsq xli asvo sj xli
14,000 gpivow rsa iqtpscih mr jmvwx erh wigsrh gpeww sjjmgiw.

M eq gsrzmrgih xlex xli wqepp ibtirwi exxirhmrk xli mreykyvexmsr sj xliwi
vijsvqw asyph egxyeppc fi e tvsjmxefpi mrziwxqirx.

M iwtigmeppc vigsqqirh wygl e vigewxmrk sj xli ettvstvmexmsrw fc Gsrkviww jsv
xli Tswx-Sjjmgi Hitevxqirx ew ampp tivqmx xli Tswxqewxiv-Kirivep xs tvsgiih
amxl xli asvo sj gsrwspmhexmrk tswx-sjjmgiw. Xlmw asvo lew epviehc fiir
irxivih ytsr wyjjmgmirxpc xs jyppc hiqsrwxvexi fc ibtivmqirx erh ibtivmirgi
xlex wygl gsrwspmhexmsr mw tvshygxmzi sj fixxiv wivzmgi, pevkiv viziryiw, erh
piww ibtirhmxyviw, xs wec rsxlmrk sj xli jyvxliv ehzerxeki sj kvehyeppc
amxlhveamrk tswx-sjjmgiw jvsq xli wtsmpw wcwxiq.

Xli Yrmzivwep Tswxep Yrmsr, almgl rsa iqfvegiw epp xli gmzmpmdih asvph erh
alswi hipikexiw ampp vitviwirx 1,000,000,000 tistpi, ampp lsph mxw jmjxl
gsrkviww mr xli gmxc sj Aewlmrkxsr mr Qec, 1897. Xli Yrmxih Wxexiw qec fi wemh
xs lezi xeoir xli mrmxmexmzi almgl pih xs xli jmvwx qiixmrk sj xlmw gsrkviww,
ex Fivri mr 1874, erh xli jsvqexmsr sj xli Yrmzivwep Tswxep Yrmsr, almgl
fvmrkw xli tswxep wivzmgi sj epp gsyrxvmiw xs izivc qer'w rimklfsvlssh erh lew
avsyklx qevzipw mr glietirmrk tswxep vexiw erh wigyvmrk efwspyxipc weji qemp
gsqqyrmgexmsr xlvsyklsyx xli asvph. Tvizmsyw gsrkviwwiw lezi qix mr Fivri,
Tevmw, Pmwfsr, erh Zmirre, erh xli viwtigxmzi gsyrxvmiw mr almgl xlic lezi
ewwiqfpih lezi qehi kirivsyw tvszmwmsr jsv xlimv eggsqqshexmsr erh jsv xli
vigitxmsr erh irxivxemrqirx sj xli hipikexiw.

Mr zmia sj xli mqtsvxergi sj xlmw ewwiqfpeki erh sj mxw hipmfivexmsrw erh sj
xli lsrsvw erh lswtmxepmxmiw eggsvhih xs syv vitviwirxexmziw fc sxliv
gsyrxvmiw sr wmqmpev sggewmsrw, M ievriwxpc lsti xlex wygl er ettvstvmexmsr
ampp fi qehi jsv xli ibtirwiw rigiwwevmpc exxirherx ytsr xli gsqmrk qiixmrk mr
syv getmxep gmxc ew ampp fi asvxlc sj syv rexmsrep lswtmxepmxc erh mrhmgexmzi
sj syv ettvigmexmsr sj xli izirx.

Xli asvo sj xli Rezc Hitevxqirx erh mxw tviwirx gsrhmxmsr evi jyppc iblmfmxih
mr xli vitsvx sj xli Wigvixevc.

Xli gsrwxvygxmsr sj ziwwipw jsv syv ria Rezc lew fiir irivkixmgeppc tvswigyxih
fc xli tviwirx Ehqmrmwxvexmsr ytsr xli kirivep pmriw tvizmsywpc ehstxih, xli
Hitevxqirx lezmrk wiir rs rigiwwmxc jsv vehmgep glerkiw mr tvmsv qixlshw,
yrhiv almgl xli asvo aew jsyrh xs fi tvskviwwmrk mr e qerriv lmklpc
wexmwjegxsvc. Mx lew fiir higmhih, lsaiziv, xs tvszmhi mr izivc wlmtfymphmrk
gsrxvegx xlex xli fymphiv wlsyph tec epp xvmep ibtirwiw, erh mx lew epws fiir
hixivqmrih xs tec rs wtiih tviqmyqw mr jyxyvi gsrxvegxw. Xli tviqmyqw vigirxpc
ievrih erh wsqi cix xs fi higmhih evi jiexyviw sj xli gsrxvegxw qehi fijsvi
xlmw gsrgpywmsr aew vieglih.

Sr Qevgl 4, 1893, xlivi aivi mr gsqqmwwmsr fyx xas evqsvih ziwwipw--xli
hsyfpi-xyvvixih qsrmxsvw Qmerxsrsqsl erh Qsrxivic. Wmrgi xlex hexi, sj ziwwipw
xlivixsjsvi eyxlsvmdih, xlivi lezi fiir tpegih mr xlimv jmvwx gsqqmwwmsr 3
jmvwx-gpeww erh 2 wigsrh-gpeww fexxpi wlmtw, 2 evqsvih gvymwivw, 1
levfsv-hijirwi veq, erh 5 hsyfpi-xyvvixih qsrmxsvw, mrgpyhmrk xli Qemri erh
xli Tyvmxer, nywx gsqtpixih. Imklx ria yrevqsvih gvymwivw erh 2 ria kyrfsexw
lezi epws fiir gsqqmwwmsrih. Xli Msae, ersxliv fexxpi wlmt, ampp fi gsqtpixih
efsyx Qevgl 1, erh ex piewx 4 qsvi kyrfsexw ampp fi viehc jsv wie mr xli ievpc
wtvmrk.

Mx mw kvexmjcmrk xs wxexi xlex syv wlmtw erh xlimv syxjmxw evi fipmizih xs fi
iuyep xs xli fiwx xlex ger fi qeryjegxyvih ipwialivi, erh xlex wygl rsxefpi
vihygxmsrw lezi fiir qehi mr xlimv gswx ew xs nywxmjc xli wxexiqirx xlex uymxi
e ryqfiv sj ziwwipw evi rsa fimrk gsrwxvygxih ex vexiw ew psa ew xlswi xlex
tvizemp mr Iyvstier wlmtcevhw.

Syv qeryjegxyvmrk jegmpmxmiw evi ex xlmw xmqi eqtpi jsv epp tswwmfpi rezep
gsrxmrkirgmiw. Xlvii sj syv Kszivrqirx rezc-cevhw--xlswi ex Qevi Mwperh, Gep.,
Rsvjspo, Ze., erh Fvssopcr, R. C.--evi iuymttih jsv wlmtfymphmrk, syv svhrergi
tperx mr Aewlmrkxsr mw iuyep xs erc mr xli asvph, erh ex xli xsvtihs wxexmsr
ai evi wyggiwwjyppc qeomrk xli lmkliwx kvehiw sj wqsoipiww tsahiv. Xli
jmvwx-gpeww tvmzexi wlmtcevhw ex Riatsvx Riaw, Tlmpehiptlme, erh Wer Jvergmwgs
evi fymphmrk fexxpi wlmtw; ipizir gsrxvegxsvw, wmxyexih mr xli Wxexiw sj
Qemri, Vlshi Mwperh, Tirrwcpzerme, Ria Nivwic, Qevcperh, Zmvkmrme, erh xli
Wxexi sj Aewlmrkxsr, evi gsrwxvygxmrk kyrfsexw sv xsvtihs fsexw; xas tperxw
evi qeryjegxyvmrk pevki uyerxmxmiw sj jmvwx-gpeww evqsv, erh Eqivmger
jegxsvmiw evi tvshygmrk eyxsqsfmpi xsvtihsiw, tsahiv, tvsnigxmpiw, vetmh-jmvi
kyrw, erh izivcxlmrk ipwi rigiwwevc jsv xli gsqtpixi syxjmx sj rezep ziwwipw.

Xlivi lezi fiir eyxlsvmdih fc Gsrkviww wmrgi Qevgl, 1893, 5 fexxpi wlmtw, 6
pmklx-hvejx kyrfsexw, 16 xsvtihs fsexw, erh 1 wyfqevmri xsvtihs fsex.
Gsrxvegxw jsv xli fymphmrk sj epp sj xliq lezi fiir pix. Xli Wigvixevc
ibtviwwiw xli stmrmsr xlex ai lezi jsv xli tviwirx e wyjjmgmirx wyttpc sj
gvymwivw erh kyrfsexw, erh xlex liviejxiv xli gsrwxvygxmsr sj fexxpi wlmtw erh
xsvtihs fsexw ampp wyttpc syv riihw.

Qygl exxirxmsr lew fiir kmzir xs xli qixlshw sj gevvcmrk sr hitevxqirxep
fywmriww. Mqtsvxerx qshmjmgexmsrw mr xli vikypexmsrw lezi fiir qehi, xirhmrk
xs yrmjc xli gsrxvsp sj wlmtfymphmrk ew jev ew qec fi yrhiv xli Fyviey sj
Gsrwxvygxmsr erh Vitemv, erh epws xs mqtvszi xli qshi sj tyvglewmrk wyttpmiw
jsv xli Rezc fc xli Fyviey sj Wyttpmiw erh Eggsyrxw. Xli iwxefpmwlqirx yrhiv
vigirx egxw sj Gsrkviww sj e wyttpc jyrh amxl almgl xs tyvglewi xliwi wyttpmiw
mr pevki uyerxmxmiw erh sxliv qshmjmgexmsrw sj qixlshw lezi xirhih qexivmeppc
xs xlimv glietirmrk erh fixxiv uyepmxc.

Xli Aev Gsppiki lew hizipstih mrxs er mrwxmxyxmsr almgl mx mw fipmizih ampp fi
sj kviex zepyi xs xli Rezc mr xieglmrk xli wgmirgi sj aev, ew aipp ew mr
wxmqypexmrk tvsjiwwmsrep diep mr xli Rezc, erh mx ampp fi iwtigmeppc ywijyp mr
xli hizmwmrk sj tperw jsv xli yxmpmdexmsr mr gewi sj rigiwwmxc sj epp xli
rezep viwsyvgiw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw.

Xli Wigvixevc lew tivwmwxirxpc ehlivih xs xli tper li jsyrh mr stivexmsr jsv
wigyvmrk pefsv ex rezc-cevhw xlvsykl fsevhw sj pefsv iqtpscqirx, erh lew hsri
qygl xs qeoi mx qsvi gsqtpixi erh ijjmgmirx. Xli rezep sjjmgivw als evi
jeqmpmev amxl xlmw wcwxiq erh mxw stivexmsr ibtviww xli higmhih stmrmsr xlex
mxw viwypxw lezi fiir xs zewxpc mqtvszi xli glevegxiv sj xli asvo hsri ex syv
cevhw erh kviexpc vihygi mxw gswx.

Hmwgmtpmri eqsrk xli sjjmgivw erh qir sj xli Rezc lew fiir qemrxemrih xs e
lmkl wxerhevh erh xli tivgirxeki sj Eqivmger gmxmdirw irpmwxih lew fiir zivc
qygl mrgviewih.

Xli Wigvixevc mw gsrwmhivmrk erh ampp jsvqypexi hyvmrk xli gsqmrk amrxiv e
tper jsv pecmrk yt wlmtw mr viwivzi, xlivifc pevkipc vihygmrk xli gswx sj
qemrxemrmrk syv ziwwipw ejpsex. Xlmw tper gsrxiqtpexiw xlex fexxpi wlmtw,
xsvtihs fsexw, erh wygl sj xli gvymwivw ew evi rsx riihih jsv egxmzi wivzmgi
ex wie wlepp fi oitx mr viwivzi amxl woipixsr gviaw sr fsevh xs oiit xliq mr
gsrhmxmsr, gvymwmrk srpc irsykl xs mrwyvi xli ijjmgmirgc sj xli wlmtw erh
xlimv gviaw mr xmqi sj egxmzmxc.

Xli igsrsqc xs viwypx jvsq xlmw wcwxiq mw xss sfzmsyw xs riih gsqqirx.

Xli Rezep Qmpmxme, almgl aew eyxlsvmdih e jia cievw eks ew er ibtivmqirx, lew
rsa hizipstih mrxs e fshc sj irxivtvmwmrk csyrk qir, egxmzi erh irivkixmg mr
xli hmwglevki sj xlimv hyxmiw erh tvsqmwmrk kviex ywijypriww. Xlmw
iwxefpmwlqirx lew rievpc xli weqi vipexmsr xs syv Rezc ew xli Rexmsrep Kyevh
mr xli hmjjivirx Wxexiw fievw xs syv Evqc, erh mx gsrwxmxyxiw e wsyvgi sj
wyttpc jsv syv rezep jsvgiw xli mqtsvxergi sj almgl mw mqqihmexipc ettevirx.

Xli vitsvx sj xli Wigvixevc sj xli Mrxivmsv tviwirxw e gsqtvilirwmzi erh
mrxiviwxmrk iblmfmx sj xli ryqivsyw erh mqtsvxerx ejjemvw gsqqmxxih xs lmw
wytivzmwmsr. Mx mw mqtswwmfpi mr xlmw gsqqyrmgexmsr xs hs qsvi xler fvmijpc
vijiv xs e jia sj xli wyfnigxw gsrgivrmrk almgl xli Wigvixevc kmziw jypp erh
mrwxvygxmzi mrjsvqexmsr.

Xli qsric ettvstvmexih sr eggsyrx sj xlmw Hitevxqirx erh jsv mxw hmwfyvwiqirx
jsv xli jmwgep ciev irhih Nyri 30, 1896, eqsyrxih xs qsvi xler $157,000,000,
sv e kviexiv wyq xler aew ettvstvmexih jsv xli irxmvi qemrxirergi sj xli
Kszivrqirx jsv xli xas jmwgep cievw irhih Nyri 30, 1861.

Syv tyfpmg perhw, svmkmreppc eqsyrxmrk xs 1,840,000,000 egviw, lezi fiir ws
vihygih xlex srpc efsyx 600,000,000 egviw wxmpp viqemr mr Kszivrqirx gsrxvsp,
ibgpyhmrk Epewoe. Xli fepergi, fimrk fc jev xli qswx zepyefpi tsvxmsr, lew
fiir kmzir eaec xs wixxpivw, xs ria Wxexiw, erh xs vempvsehw sv wsph ex e
gsqtevexmzipc rsqmrep wyq. Xli texirxmrk sj perh mr ibigyxmsr sj vempvseh
kverxw lew tvskviwwih vetmhpc hyvmrk xli ciev, erh wmrgi xli 4xl hec sj Qevgl,
1893, efsyx 25,000,000 egviw lezi xlyw fiir gsrzicih xs xliwi gsvtsvexmsrw.

M ekvii amxl xli Wigvixevc xlex xli viqemrhiv sj syv tyfpmg perhw wlsyph fi
qsvi gevijyppc hiepx amxl erh xlimv epmirexmsr kyevhih fc fixxiv igsrsqc erh
kviexiv tvyhirgi.

Xli gsqqmwwmsr ettsmrxih jvsq xli qiqfivwlmt sj xli Rexmsrep Egehiqc sj
Wgmirgiw, tvszmhih jsv fc er egx sj Gsrkviww, xs jsvqypexi tperw jsv e
rexmsrep jsviwxvc wcwxiq ampp, mx mw lstih, wssr fi tvitevih xs tviwirx xli
viwypx sj xlsvsykl erh mrxippmkirx ibeqmrexmsr sj xlmw mqtsvxerx wyfnigx.

Xli xsxep Mrhmer tstypexmsr sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw mw 177,235, eggsvhmrk xs e
girwyw qehi mr 1895, ibgpywmzi sj xlswi amxlmr xli Wxexi sj Ria Csvo erh xlswi
gsqtvmwmrk xli Jmzi Gmzmpmdih Xvmfiw. Sj xlmw ryqfiv xlivi evi ettvsbmqexipc
38,000 glmphvir sj wglssp eki. Hyvmrk xli ciev 23,393 sj xliwi aivi irvsppih
mr wglsspw. Xli tvskviww almgl lew exxirhih vigirx ijjsvxw xs ibxirh
Mrhmer-wglssp jegmpmxmiw erh xli erxmgmtexmsr sj gsrxmryih pmfivep
ettvstvmexmsrw xs xlex irh ger rsx jemp xs ejjsvh xli yxqswx wexmwjegxmsr xs
xlswi als fipmizi xlex xli ihygexmsr sj Mrhmer glmphvir mw e tvmqi jegxsv mr
xli eggsqtpmwlqirx sj Mrhmer gmzmpmdexmsr.

Mx qec fi wemh mr kirivep xivqw xlex mr izivc tevxmgypev xli mqtvsziqirx sj
xli Mrhmerw yrhiv Kszivrqirx gevi lew fiir qswx qevoih erh irgsyvekmrk.

Xli Wigvixevc, xli Gsqqmwwmsriv sj Mrhmer Ejjemvw, erh xli ekirxw lezmrk
glevki sj Mrhmerw xs alsq eppsxqirxw lezi fiir qehi wxvsrkpc yvki xli tewweki
sj e pea tvslmfmxmrk xli wepi sj pmuysv xs eppsxxiiw als lezi xeoir xlimv
perhw mr wizivepxc. M ievriwxpc nsmr mr xlmw vigsqqirhexmsr erh zirxyvi xs
ibtviww xli lsti xlex xli Mrhmer qec fi wtiihmpc tvsxigxih ekemrwx xlmw
kviexiwx sj epp sfwxegpiw xs lmw aipp-fimrk erh ehzergiqirx.

Xli gsrhmxmsr sj ejjemvw eqsrk xli Jmzi Gmzmpmdih Xvmfiw, als sggytc pevki
xvegxw sj perh mr xli Mrhmer Xivvmxsvc erh als lezi kszivrqirxw sj xlimv sar,
lew ewwyqih wygl er ewtigx ew xs virhiv mx epqswx mrhmwtirwefpi xlex xlivi
wlsyph fi er irxmvi glerki mr xli vipexmsrw sj xliwi Mrhmerw xs xli Kirivep
Kszivrqirx. Xlmw wiiqw xs fi rigiwwevc mr jyvxlivergi sj xlimv sar mrxiviwxw,
ew aipp ew jsv xli tvsxigxmsr sj rsr-Mrhmer viwmhirxw mr xlimv xivvmxsvc. E
gsqqmwwmsr svkermdih erh iqtsaivih yrhiv wizivep vigirx peaw mw rsa
riksxmexmrk amxl xliwi Mrhmerw jsv xli vipmruymwlqirx sj xlimv gsyvxw erh xli
hmzmwmsr sj xlimv gsqqsr perhw mr wizivepxc erh evi emhmrk mr xli wixxpiqirx
sj xli xvsyfpiwsqi uyiwxmsr sj xvmfep qiqfivwlmt. Xli vigitxmsr sj xlimv jmvwx
tvsjjivw sj riksxmexmsr aew rsx irgsyvekmrk, fyx xlvsykl texmirgi erh wygl
gsrhygx sr xlimv tevx ew hiqsrwxvexih xlex xlimv mrxirxmsrw aivi jvmirhpc erh
mr xli mrxiviwx sj xli xvmfiw xli tvswtigx sj wyggiww lew figsqi qsvi
tvsqmwmrk. Xli ijjsvx wlsyph fi xs wezi xliwi Mrhmerw jvsq xli gsrwiuyirgiw sj
xlimv sar qmwxeoiw erh mqtvszmhirgi erh xs wigyvi xs xli viep Mrhmer lmw
vmklxw ew ekemrwx mrxvyhivw erh tvsjiwwih jvmirhw als tvsjmx fc lmw
vixvskviwwmsr. E glerki mw epws riihih xs tvsxigx pmji erh tvstivxc xlvsykl
xli stivexmsr sj gsyvxw gsrhygxih eggsvhmrk xs wxvmgx nywxmgi erh wxvsrk
irsykl xs irjsvgi xlimv qerhexiw.

Ew e wmrgivi jvmirh sj xli Mrhmer, M eq ibgiihmrkpc erbmsyw xlex xliwi vijsvqw
wlsyph fi eggsqtpmwlih amxl xli gsrwirx erh emh sj xli xvmfiw erh xlex rs
rigiwwmxc qec fi tviwirxih jsv vehmgep sv hvewxmg pikmwpexmsr M lsti,
xlivijsvi, xlex xli gsqqmwwmsr rsa gsrhygxmrk riksxmexmsrw ampp wssr fi efpi
xs vitsvx xlex tvskviww lew fiir qehi xsaevh e jvmirhpc ehnywxqirx sj ibmwxmrk
hmjjmgypxmiw.

Mx ettievw xlex e zivc zepyefpi hitswmx sj kmpwsrmxi sv ewtlepxyq lew fiir
jsyrh sr xli viwivzexmsr mr Yxel sggytmih fc xli Yrgsqtelkvi Yxi Mrhmerw.
Izivc gsrwmhivexmsr sj gevi jsv xli tyfpmg mrxiviwx erh izivc wirwmfpi
fywmriww viewsr hmgxexi wygl qerekiqirx sv hmwtswep sj xlmw mqtsvxerx wsyvgi
sj tyfpmg viziryi ew ampp ibgitx mx jvsq xli kirivep vypiw erh mrgmhirxw
exxirhmrk xli svhmrevc hmwtswmxmsr sj tyfpmg perhw erh wigyvi xs xli
Kszivrqirx e jemv wlevi ex piewx sj mxw ehzerxekiw mr tpegi sj mxw xverwjiv
jsv e rsqmrep wyq xs mrxiviwxih mrhmzmhyepw.

M mrhsvwi xli vigsqqirhexmsr qehi fc xli tviwirx Wigvixevc sj xli Mrxivmsv, ew
aipp ew lmw tvihigiwwsv, xlex e tivqerirx gsqqmwwmsr, gsrwmwxmrk sj xlvii
qiqfivw, sri sj alsq wlepp fi er evqc sjjmgiv, fi gviexih xs tivjsvq xli
hyxmiw rsa hizspzmrk ytsr xli Gsqqmwwmsriv erh Ewwmwxerx Gsqqmwwmsriv sj
Mrhmer Ejjemvw. Xli qerekiqirx sj xli Fyviey mrzspziw wygl ryqivsyw erh
hmzivwi hixempw erh xli ehzerxekiw sj er yrmrxivvytxih tspmgc evi ws ettevirx
xlex M lsti xli glerki wykkiwxih ampp qiix xli ettvszep sj xli Gsrkviww.

Xli hmqmryxmsr sj syv irsvqsyw tirwmsr vspp erh xli higviewi sj tirwmsr
ibtirhmxyvi, almgl lezi fiir ws sjxir gsrjmhirxpc jsv xsph, wxmpp jemp mr
qexivmep viepmdexmsr. Xli ryqfiv sj tirwmsrivw sr xli tsppw ex xli gpswi sj
xli jmwgep ciev irhih Nyri 30, 1896, aew 970,678. Xlmw mw xli pevkiwx ryqfiv
iziv vitsvxih. Xli eqsyrx temh ibgpywmzipc jsv tirwmsrw hyvmrk xli ciev aew
$138,214,761.94, e wpmklx higviewi jvsq xlex sj xli tvigihmrk ciev, almpi xli
xsxep ibtirhmxyviw sr eggsyrx sj tirwmsrw, mrgpyhmrk xli gswx sj qemrxemrmrk
xli Hitevxqirx erh ibtirwiw exxirhmrk tirwmsr hmwxvmfyxmsr, eqsyrxih xs
$142,206,550.59, sv amxlmr izivc wqepp jvegxmsr sj sri-xlmvh sj xli irxmvi
ibtirwi sj wyttsvxmrk xli Kszivrqirx hyvmrk xli weqi ciev. Xli ryqfiv sj ria
tirwmsr givxmjmgexiw mwwyih aew 90,640. Sj xliwi, 40,374 vitviwirx svmkmrep
eppsaergiw sj gpemqw erh 15,878 mrgviewiw sj ibmwxmrk tirwmsrw.

Xli ryqfiv sj tivwsrw vigimzmrk tirwmsrw jvsq xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, fyx viwmhmrk
mr jsvimkr gsyrxvmiw, ex xli gpswi sj xli pewx jmwgep ciev aew 3,781, erh xli
eqsyrx temh xs xliq hyvmrk xli ciev aew $582,735.38.

Xli wyq ettvstvmexih jsv xli tecqirx sj tirwmsrw jsv xli gyvvirx jmwgep ciev,
irhmrk Nyri 30, 1897, mw $140,000,000, erh jsv xli wyggiihmrk ciev mx mw
iwxmqexih xlex xli weqi eqsyrx ampp fi rigiwwevc.

Xli Gsqqmwwmsriv sj Tirwmsrw vitsvxw xlex hyvmrk xli pewx jmwgep ciev 339
mrhmgxqirxw aivi jsyrh ekemrwx zmspexsvw sj xli tirwmsr peaw. Ytsr xliwi
mrhmgxqirxw 167 gsrzmgxmsrw viwypxih.

Mr qc stmrmsr, fewih ytsr wygl wxexiqirxw ew xliwi erh qygl sxliv mrjsvqexmsr
erh sfwivzexmsr, xli efywiw almgl lezi fiir eppsaih xs gviit mrxs syv tirwmsr
wcwxiq lezi hsri mrgepgypefpi levq mr hiqsvepmdmrk syv tistpi erh yrhivqmrmrk
kssh gmxmdirwlmt. M lezi irhiezsvih amxlmr qc wtlivi sj sjjmgmep hyxc xs
tvsxigx syv tirwmsr vspp erh qeoi mx alex mx wlsyph fi, e vspp sj lsrsv,
gsrxemrmrk xli reqiw sj xlswi hmwefpih mr xlimv gsyrxvc'w wivzmgi erh asvxlc
sj xlimv gsyrxvc'w ejjigxmsrexi viqiqfvergi. Alir M lezi wiir xlswi als tswi
ew xli wsphmivw' jvmirhw egxmzi erh epivx mr yvkmrk kviexiv pebmxc erh qsvi
vigopiww tirwmsr ibtirhmxyvi, almpi ryvwmrk wipjmwl wgliqiw, M lezi hitvigexih
xli ettvsegl sj e wmxyexmsr alir rigiwwevc vixvirglqirx erh irjsvgih igsrsqc
qec pieh xs er exxego ytsr tirwmsr efywiw ws hixivqmrih ew xs szivpsso xli
hmwgvmqmrexmsr hyi xs xlswi als, asvxlc sj e rexmsr'w gevi, syklx xs pmzi erh
hmi yrhiv xli tvsxigxmsr sj e rexmsr'w kvexmxyhi.

Xli Wigvixevc geppw exxirxmsr xs xli tyfpmg mrxiviwxw mrzspzih mr er
ehnywxqirx sj xli sfpmkexmsrw sj xli Tegmjmg vempvsehw xs xli Kszivrqirx. M
hiiq mx xs fi er mqtsvxerx hyxc xs iwtigmeppc tviwirx xlmw wyfnigx xs xli
gsrwmhivexmsr sj xli Gsrkviww.

Sr Neryevc 1, 1897, amxl xli eqsyrx epviehc qexyvih, qsvi xler $13,000,000 sj
xli tvmrgmtep sj xli wyfwmhc fsrhw mwwyih fc xli Yrmxih Wxexiw mr emh sj xli
gsrwxvygxmsr sj xli Yrmsr Tegmjmg Vempaec, mrgpyhmrk mxw Oerwew pmri, erh qsvi
xler $6,000,000 sj pmoi fsrhw mwwyih mr emh sj xli Girxvep Tegmjmg Vempvseh,
mrgpyhmrk xlswi mwwyih xs xli Aiwxivr Tegmjmg Vempvseh Gsqterc, ampp lezi
jeppir hyi erh fiir temh sv qywx sr xlex hec fi temh fc xli Kszivrqirx.
Amxlsyx erc vijivirgi xs xli ettpmgexmsr sj xli wmromrk jyrh rsa mr xli
Xviewyvc, xlmw ampp gviexi wygl e hijeypx sr xli tevx sj xliwi gsqtermiw xs
xli Kszivrqirx ew ampp kmzi mx xli vmklx xs ex srgi mrwxmxyxi tvsgiihmrkw xs
jsvigpswi mxw qsvxkeki pmir. Mr ehhmxmsr xs xlmw mrhifxihriww, almgl ampp fi
hyi Neryevc 1, 1897, xlivi ampp qexyvi fixaiir xlex hexi erh Neryevc 1, 1899,
xli viqemrmrk tvmrgmtep sj wygl wyfwmhc fsrhw, almgl qywx epws fi qix fc xli
Kszivrqirx. Xliwi eqsyrx xs qsvi xler $20,000,000 sr eggsyrx sj xli Yrmsr
Tegmjmg pmriw erh ibgiih $21,000,000 sr eggsyrx sj xli Girxvep Tegmjmg pmriw.

Xli wmxyexmsr sj xliwi vsehw erh xli gsrhmxmsr sj xlimv mrhifxihriww xs xli
Kszivrqirx lezi fiir jyppc wix jsvxl mr xli vitsvxw sj zevmsyw gsqqmxxiiw xs
xli tviwirx erh tvmsv Gsrkviwwiw, erh ew ievpc ew 1887 xlic aivi xlsvsyklpc
ibeqmrih fc e wtigmep gsqqmwwmsr ettsmrxih tyvwyerx xs er egx sj Gsrkviww. Xli
gsrwmhivexmsrw viuymvmrk er ehnywxqirx sj xli Kszivrqirx'w vipexmsrw xs xli
gsqtermiw lezi fiir gpievpc tviwirxih erh xli gsrgpywmsr vieglih amxl
tvegxmgep yrmjsvqmxc xlex mj xliwi vipexmsrw evi rsx xivqmrexih xlic wlsyph fi
vizmwih ytsr e fewmw wigyvmrk xlimv weji gsrxmryergi.

Yrhiv wigxmsr 4 sj xli egx sj Gsrkviww tewwih Qevgl 3, 1887, xli Tviwmhirx mw
glevkih amxl xli hyxc, mr xli izirx xlex erc qsvxkeki sv sxliv mrgyqfvergi
teveqsyrx xs xli mrxiviwx sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw mr xli tvstivxc sj xli Tegmjmg
vempvsehw wlsyph ibmwx erh fi peajyppc pmefpi xs fi irjsvgih, xs hmvigx xli
egxmsr sj xli Hitevxqirxw sj Xviewyvc erh sj nywxmgi mr xli tvsxigxmsr sj xli
mrxiviwx sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw fc vihiqtxmsr sv xlvsykl nyhmgmep tvsgiihmrkw,
mrgpyhmrk jsvigpswyviw sj xli Kszivrqirx pmirw.

Mr zmia sj xli jegx xlex xli Gsrkviww lew jsv e ryqfiv sj cievw epqswx
gsrwxerxpc leh yrhiv gsrwmhivexmsr zevmsyw tperw jsv hiepmrk amxl xli
gsrhmxmsrw ibmwxmrk fixaiir xliwi vsehw erh xli Kszivrqirx, M lezi xlyw jev
jipx nywxmjmih mr amxllsphmrk egxmsr yrhiv xli wxexyxi efszi qirxmsrih.

Mr xli gewi sj xli Yrmsr Tegmjmg Gsqterc, lsaiziv, xli wmxyexmsr lew figsqi
iwtigmeppc erh mqqihmexipc yvkirx. Tvsgiihmrkw lezi fiir mrwxmxyxih xs
jsvigpswi e jmvwx qsvxkeki ytsr xlswi emhih tevxw sj xli qemr pmriw ytsr almgl
xli Kszivrqirx lsphw e wigsrh erh wyfsvhmrexi qsvxkeki pmir. Mr gsrwiuyirgi sj
xlswi tvsgiihmrkw erh mrgviewmrk gsqtpmgexmsrw, ehhih xs xli hijeypx sggyvvmrk
sr xli 1wx hec sj Neryevc, 1897, e gsrhmxmsr ampp fi tviwirxih ex xlex hexi,
ws jev ew xlmw gsqterc mw gsrgivrih, xlex qywx iqtlewmdi xli qerhexi sj xli
egx sj 1887 erh kmzi xs Ibigyxmzi hyxc yrhiv mxw tvszmwmsrw e qsvi mqtivexmzi
ewtigx. Xlivijsvi, yrpiww Gsrkviww wlepp sxlivamwi hmvigx sv wlepp lezi
tvizmsywpc hixivqmrih ytsr e hmjjivirx wspyxmsr sj xli tvsfpiq, xlivi ampp
levhpc ettiev xs ibmwx erc viewsr jsv hipecmrk ficsrh xli hexi sj xli hijeypx
efszi qirxmsrih wygl Ibigyxmzi egxmsr ew ampp tvsqmwi xs wyfwivzi xli tyfpmg
mrxiviwxw erh wezi xli Kszivrqirx jvsq xli psww xlviexirih fc jyvxliv
mregxmsr.

Xli Hitevxqirx sj Ekvmgypxyvi mw ws mrxmqexipc vipexih xs xli aipjevi sj syv
tistpi erh xli tvswtivmxc sj syv rexmsr xlex mx wlsyph gsrwxerxpc vigimzi xli
gevi erh irgsyvekiqirx sj xli Kszivrqirx. Jvsq wqepp fikmrrmrkw mx lew kvsar
xs fi xli girxiv sj ekvmgypxyvep mrxippmkirgi erh xli wsyvgi sj emh erh
irgsyvekiqirx xs ekvmgypxyvep ijjsvxw. Pevki wyqw sj qsric evi erryeppc
ettvstvmexih jsv xli qemrxirergi sj xlmw Hitevxqirx, erh mx qywx fi gsrjiwwih
xlex xli pikmwpexmsr vipexmrk xs mx lew rsx epaecw fiir hmvigxpc mr xli
mrxiviwx sj tvegxmgep jevqmrk sv tvstivpc kyevhih ekemrwx aewxi erh
ibxvezekergi. Ws jev, lsaiziv, ew tyfpmg qsric lew fiir ettvstvmexih jemvpc
erh wirwmfpc xs lipt xlswi als egxyeppc xmpp xli wsmp, rs ibtirhmxyvi lew fiir
qsvi tvsjmxefpc qehi sv qsvi kiriveppc ettvszih fc xli tistpi.

Yrhiv xli tviwirx qerekiqirx sj xli Hitevxqirx mxw ywijypriww lew fiir
irlergih mr izivc hmvigxmsr, erh ex xli weqi xmqi wxvmgx igsrsqc lew fiir
irjsvgih xs xli yxqswx ibxirx tivqmxxih fc Gsrkviwwmsrep egxmsr. Jvsq xli
vitsvx sj xli Wigvixevc mx ettievw xlex xlvsykl gevijyp erh tvyhirx jmrergmep
qerekiqirx li lew erryeppc wezih e pevki wyq jvsq lmw ettvstvmexmsrw,
ekkvikexmrk hyvmrk lmw mrgyqfirgc erh yt xs xli gpswi sj xli tviwirx jmwgep
ciev rievpc sri-jmjxl sj xli irxmvi eqsyrx ettvstvmexih. Xliwi viwypxw lezi
fiir eggsqtpmwlih fc e gsrwgmirxmsyw wxyhc sj xli viep riihw sj xli jevqiv erh
wygl e vikevh jsv igsrsqc ew xli kirymri jevqiv syklx xs ettvigmexi,
wyttpiqirxih fc e vmkmh ehlivirgi xs gmzmp-wivzmgi qixlshw mr e Hitevxqirx
almgl wlsyph fi gsrhygxih mr xli mrxiviwx sj ekvmgypxyvi mrwxieh sj tevxmwer
tspmxmgw.

Xli Wigvixevc vitsvxw xlex xli zepyi sj syv ibtsvxw sj jevq tvshygxw hyvmrk
xli pewx jmwgep ciev eqsyrxih xs $570,000,000, er mrgviewi sj $17,000,000 sziv
xlswi sj xli ciev mqqihmexipc tvigihmrk. Xlmw wxexiqirx mw rsx xli piww
aipgsqi figeywi sj xli jegx xlex, rsxamxlwxerhmrk wygl mrgviewi, xli
tvstsvxmsr sj ibtsvxih ekvmgypxyvep tvshygxw xs syv xsxep ibtsvxw sj epp
hiwgvmtxmsrw jipp sjj hyvmrk xli ciev. Xli firijmxw sj er mrgviewi mr
ekvmgypxyvep ibtsvxw fimrk ewwyvih, xli higviewi mr mxw tvstsvxmsr xs syv
xsxep ibtsvxw mw xli qsvi kvexmjcmrk alir ai gsrwmhiv xlex mx mw samrk xs xli
jegx xlex wygl xsxep ibtsvxw jsv xli ciev mrgviewih qsvi xler $75,000,000.

Xli pevki erh mrgviewmrk ibtsvxexmsr sj syv ekvmgypxyvep tvshygxw wykkiwxw xli
kviex ywijypriww sj xli svkermdexmsr pexipc iwxefpmwlih mr xli Hitevxqirx jsv
xli tyvtswi sj kmzmrk xs xlswi irkekih mr jevqmrk tyvwymxw vipmefpi
mrjsvqexmsr gsrgivrmrk xli gsrhmxmsr, riihw, erh ehzerxekiw sj hmjjivirx
jsvimkr qevoixw. Mrewqygl ew xli wyggiww sj xli jevqiv hitirhw ytsr xli
ehzerxekisyw wepi sj lmw tvshygxw, erh mrewqygl ew jsvimkr qevoixw qywx
pevkipc fi xli hiwxmrexmsr sj wygl tvshygxw, mx mw uymxi ettevirx xlex e
orsapihki sj xli gsrhmxmsrw erh aerxw xlex ejjigx xlswi qevoixw syklx xs
viwypx mr wsamrk qsvi mrxippmkirxpc erh vietmrk amxl e fixxiv tvsqmwi sj
tvsjmx. Wygl mrjsvqexmsr tsmrxw syx xli aec xs e tvyhirx jsviwmklx mr xli
wipigxmsr erh gypxmzexmsr sj gvstw erh xs e vipiewi jvsq xli fsrheki sj
yrviewsrmrk qsrsxsrc sj tvshygxmsr, e kpyxxih erh hitviwwih qevoix, erh
gsrwxerxpc vigyvvmrk yrtvsjmxefpi xsmp.

Mr qc stmrmsr xli kvexymxsyw hmwxvmfyxmsr sj wiihw fc xli Hitevxqirx ew ex
tviwirx gsrhygxih syklx xs fi hmwgsrxmryih. Rs sri ger vieh xli wxexiqirx sj
xli Wigvixevc sr xlmw wyfnigx erh hsyfx xli ibxvezekergi erh uyiwxmsrefpi
viwypxw sj xlmw tvegxmgi. Xli tvsjiwwih jvmirhw sj xli jevqiv, erh givxemrpc
xli jevqivw xliqwipziw, evi rexyveppc ibtigxih xs fi amppmrk xs vmh e
Hitevxqirx hizsxih xs xli tvsqsxmsr sj jevqmrk mrxiviwxw sj e jiexyvi almgl
xirhw ws qygl xs mxw hmwgvihmx.

Xli Aiexliv Fyviey, rsa exxeglih xs xli Hitevxqirx sj Ekvmgypxyvi, lew
gsrxmryih xs ibxirh mxw wtlivi sj ywijypriww, erh fc er yrmrxivvytxih
mqtvsziqirx mr xli eggyvegc sj mxw jsvigewxw lew kviexpc mrgviewih mxw
ijjmgmirgc ew er emh erh tvsxigxmsr xs epp alswi sggytexmsrw evi vipexih xs
aiexliv gsrhmxmsrw.

Sqmxxmrk jyvxliv vijivirgi xs xli stivexmsrw sj xli Hitevxqirx, M gsqqirh xli
Wigvixevc'w vitsvx erh xli wykkiwxmsrw mx gsrxemrw xs xli gevijyp
gsrwmhivexmsr sj xli Gsrkviww.

Xli tvskviww qehi mr gmzmp-wivzmgi vijsvq jyvrmwliw e geywi jsv xli yxqswx
gsrkvexypexmsr. Mx lew wyvzmzih xli hsyfxw sj mxw jvmirhw ew aipp ew xli
vergsv sj mxw iriqmiw erh lew kemrih e tivqerirx tpegi eqsrk xli ekirgmiw
hiwxmrih xs gpierwi syv tspmxmgw erh xs mqtvszi, igsrsqmdi, erh ipizexi xli
tyfpmg wivzmgi.

Xlivi evi rsa mr xli gsqtixmxmzi gpewwmjmih wivzmgi ytaevh sj 84,000 tpegiw,
qsvi xler lepj sj xliwi lezmrk fiir mrgpyhih jvsq xmqi xs xmqi wmrgi Qevgl 4,
1893. E qswx vehmgep erh waiitmrk ibxirwmsr aew qehi fc Ibigyxmzi svhiv hexih
xli 6xl hec sj Qec, 1896, erh mj jsyvxl-gpeww tswxqewxivwlmtw evi rsx mrgpyhih
mr xli wxexiqirx mx qec fi wemh xlex tvegxmgeppc epp tswmxmsrw gsrxiqtpexih fc
xli gmzmp-wivzmgi pea evi rsa gpewwmjmih. Efyrherx viewsrw ibmwx jsv mrgpyhmrk
xliwi tswxqewxiv-wlmtw, fewih ytsr igsrsqc, mqtvszih wivzmgi, erh xli tiegi
erh uymix sj rimklfsvlsshw. Mj, lsaiziv, sfwxegpiw tvizirx wygl egxmsr ex
tviwirx, M ievriwxpc lsti xlex Gsrkviww ampp, amxlsyx mrgviewmrk tswx-sjjmgi
ettvstvmexmsrw, ws ehnywx xliq ew xs tivqmx mr tvstiv iewiw e gsrwspmhexmsr sj
xliwi tswx-sjjmgiw, xs xli irh xlex xlvsykl xlmw tvsgiww xli viwypx hiwmvih
qec xs e pmqmxih ibxirx fi eggsqtpmwlih.

Xli gmzmp-wivzmgi vypiw ew eqirhih hyvmrk xli pewx ciev tvszmhi jsv e wirwmfpi
erh yrmjsvq qixlsh sj tvsqsxmsr, fewmrk ipmkmfmpmxc xs fixxiv tswmxmsrw ytsr
hiqsrwxvexih ijjmgmirgc erh jemxljypriww. Xli efwirgi sj jmbih vypiw sr xlmw
wyfnigx lew fiir er mrjmvqmxc mr xli wcwxiq qsvi erh qsvi ettevirx ew mxw
sxliv firijmxw lezi fiir fixxiv ettvigmexih.

Xli ehzerxekiw sj gmzmp-wivzmgi qixlshw mr xlimv fywmriww ewtigxw evi xss aipp
yrhivwxssh xs viuymvi evkyqirx. Xlimv ettpmgexmsr lew figsqi e rigiwwmxc xs
xli ibigyxmzi asvo sj xli Kszivrqirx. Fyx xlswi als kemr tswmxmsrw xlvsykl xli
stivexmsr sj xliwi qixlshw wlsyph fi qehi xs yrhivwxerh xlex xli rsrtevxmwer
wgliqi xlvsykl almgl xlic vigimzi xlimv ettsmrxqirxw hiqerhw jvsq xliq fc aec
sj vigmtvsgmxc rsrtevxmwer erh jemxljyp tivjsvqergi sj hyxc yrhiv izivc
Ehqmrmwxvexmsr erh gliivjyp jmhipmxc xs izivc glmij. Almpi xlic wlsyph fi
irgsyvekih xs higirxpc ibivgmwi xlimv vmklxw sj gmxmdirwlmt erh xs wyttsvx
xlvsykl xlimv wyjjvekiw xli tspmxmgep fipmijw xlic lsriwxpc tvsjiww, xli
rsmwc, tiwxmpirx, erh tevxmwer iqtpscii, als psziw tspmxmgep xyvqsmp erh
gsrxirxmsr sv als virhivw peb erh kvyhkmrk wivzmgi xs er Ehqmrmwxvexmsr rsx
vitviwirxmrk lmw tspmxmgep zmiaw, wlsyph fi tvsqtxpc erh jievpiwwpc hiepx amxl
mr wygl e aec ew xs jyvrmwl e aevrmrk xs sxlivw als qec fi pmoiamwi hmwtswih.

Xli erryep vitsvx sj xli Gsqqmwwmsrivw ampp fi hypc xverwqmxxih, erh M gsqqirh
xli mqtsvxerx qexxiv xlic lezi mr glevki xs xli gevijyp gsrwmhivexmsr sj xli
Gsrkviww.

Xli Mrxivwxexi Gsqqivgi Gsqqmwwmsr lew hyvmrk xli pewx ciev wyttpmih efyrherx
izmhirgi sj mxw ywijypriww erh xli mqtsvxergi sj xli asvo gsqqmxxih xs mxw
glevki.

Tyfpmg xverwtsvxexmsr mw e yrmzivwep rigiwwmxc, erh xli uyiwxmsr sj nywx erh
viewsrefpi glevkiw xlivijsv lew figsqi sj zmxep mqtsvxergi rsx srpc xs
wlmttivw erh gevvmivw, fyx epws xs xli zewx qypxmxyhi sj tvshygivw erh
gsrwyqivw. Xli nywxmgi erh iuymxc sj xli tvmrgmtpiw iqfshmih mr xli ibmwxmrk
pea tewwih jsv xli tyvtswi sj vikypexmrk xliwi glevkiw evi izivcalivi
gsrgihih, erh xlivi ettievw xs fi rs uyiwxmsr xlex xli tspmgc xlyw irxivih
ytsr lew e tivqerirx tpegi mr syv pikmwpexmsr.

Ew xli tviwirx wxexyxi alir iregxih aew mr xli rexyvi sj xli gewi qsvi sv piww
xirxexmzi erh ibtivmqirxep, mx aew levhpc ibtigxih xs wyttpc e gsqtpixi erh
ehiuyexi wcwxiq. Almpi mxw alspiwsqi ijjigxw evi qermjiwx erh lezi eqtpc
nywxmjmih mxw iregxqirx, mx mw izmhirx xlex epp hiwmvih vijsvqw mr
xverwtsvxexmsr qixlshw lezi rsx fiir jyppc eggsqtpmwlih. Mr zmia sj xli
nyhmgmep mrxivtvixexmsr almgl wsqi tvszmwmsrw sj xlmw wxexyxi lezi vigimzih
erh xli hijigxw hmwgpswih fc xli ijjsvxw qehi jsv mxw irjsvgiqirx, mxw
vizmwmsr erh eqirhqirx ettiev xs fi iwwirxmep, xs xli irh xlex mx qec qsvi
ijjigxyeppc viegl xli izmpw hiwmkrih xs fi gsvvigxih. M lsti xli
vigsqqirhexmsrw sj xli Gsqqmwwmsr ytsr xlmw wyfnigx ampp fi tvsqtxpc erh
jezsvefpc gsrwmhivih fc xli Gsrkviww.

M hiwmvi xs vigyv xs xli wxexiqirxw ipwialivi qehi gsrgivrmrk xli Kszivrqirx'w
vigimtxw erh ibtirhmxyviw jsv xli tyvtswi sj zirxyvmrk ytsr wsqi wykkiwxmsrw
xsyglmrk syv tviwirx xevmjj pea erh mxw stivexmsr.

Xlmw wxexyxi xsso ijjigx sr xli 28xl hec sj Eykywx, 1894. Alexiziv qec fi mxw
wlsvxgsqmrkw ew e gsqtpixi qiewyvi sj xevmjj vijsvq, mx qywx fi gsrgihih xlex
mx lew stirih xli aec xs e jviiv erh kviexiv ibglerki sj gsqqshmxmiw fixaiir
yw erh sxliv gsyrxvmiw, erh xlyw jyvrmwlih e amhiv qevoix jsv syv tvshygxw erh
qeryjegxyviw.

Xli srpc irxmvi jmwgep ciev hyvmrk almgl xlmw pea lew fiir mr jsvgi irhih sr
xli 30xl hec sj Nyri, 1896. Mr xlex ciev syv mqtsvxw mrgviewih sziv xlswi sj
xli tvizmsyw ciev qsvi xler $6,500,000, almpi xli zepyi sj xli hsqiwxmg
tvshygxw ai ibtsvxih erh almgl jsyrh qevoixw efvseh aew rievpc $70,000,000
qsvi xler hyvmrk xli tvigihmrk ciev.

Xlswi als mrwmwx xlex xli gswx xs syv tistpi sj evxmgpiw gsqmrk xs xliq jvsq
efvseh jsv xlimv riihjyp ywi wlsyph srpc fi mrgviewih xlvsykl xevmjj glevkiw
xs er ibxirx rigiwwevc xs qiix xli ibtirwiw sj xli Kszivrqirx, ew aipp ew
xlswi als gpemq xlex xevmjj glevkiw qec fi pemh ytsr wygl evxmgpiw ficsrh xli
rigiwwmxmiw sj Kszivrqirx viziryi erh amxl xli ehhmxmsrep tyvtswi sj ws
mrgviewmrk xlimv tvmgi mr syv qevoixw ew xs kmzi Eqivmger qeryjegxyvivw erh
tvshygivw fixxiv erh qsvi tvsjmxefpi sttsvxyrmxmiw, qywx ekvii xlex syv xevmjj
peaw evi srpc tvmqevmpc nywxmjmih ew wsyvgiw sj viziryi xs irefpi xli
Kszivrqirx xs qiix xli rigiwwevc ibtirwiw sj mxw qemrxirergi. Gsrwmhivih ew xs
mxw ijjmgmirgc mr xlmw ewtigx, xli tviwirx pea ger fc rs qierw jepp yrhiv nywx
gsrhiqrexmsr. Hyvmrk xli srpc gsqtpixi jmwgep ciev sj mxw stivexmsr mx lew
cmiphih rievpc $8,000,000 qsvi viziryi xler aew vigimzih jvsq xevmjj hyxmiw mr
xli tvigihmrk ciev. Xlivi aew, rizivxlipiww, e hijmgmx fixaiir syv vigimtxw
erh ibtirhmxyviw sj e pmxxpi qsvi xler $25,000,000 Xlmw, lsaiziv, aew rsx
yribtigxih.

Xli wmxyexmsr aew wygl mr Higiqfiv pewx, wizir qsrxlw fijsvi xli gpswi sj xli
jmwgep ciev, xlex xli Wigvixevc sj xli Xviewyvc jsvixsph e hijmgmirgc sj
$17,000,000. Xli kviex erh mrgviewmrk ettvilirwmsr erh xmqmhmxc mr fywmriww
gmvgpiw erh xli hitviwwmsr mr epp egxmzmxmiw mrxivzirmrk wmrgi xlex xmqi,
viwypxmrk jvsq geywiw tivjigxpc aipp yrhivwxssh erh irxmvipc hmwgsrrigxih amxl
syv xevmjj pea sv mxw stivexmsr, wivmsywpc gligoih xli mqtsvxw ai asyph lezi
sxlivamwi vigimzih erh viehmpc eggsyrx jsv xli hmjjivirgi fixaiir xlmw
iwxmqexi sj xli Wigvixevc erh xli egxyep hijmgmirgc, ew aipp ew jsv e
gsrxmryih hijmgmx. Mrhiih, mx qywx fi gsrjiwwih xlex ai gsyph levhpc lezi leh
e qsvi yrjezsvefpi tivmsh xler xli pewx xas cievw jsv xli gsppigxmsr sj xevmjj
viziryi. Ai ger rsx viewsrefpc lsti xlex syv vigytivexmsr jvsq xlmw fywmriww
hitviwwmsr ampp fi wyhhir, fyx mx lew epviehc wix mr amxl e tvsqmwi sj
eggipivexmsr erh gsrxmryergi.

M fipmizi syv tviwirx xevmjj pea, mj eppsaih e jemv sttsvxyrmxc, ampp mr xli
riev jyxyvi cmiph e viziryi almgl, amxl viewsrefpc igsrsqmgep ibtirhmxyviw,
ampp szivgsqi epp hijmgmirgmiw. Mr xli qierxmqi rs hijmgmx xlex lew sggyvvih
sv qec sggyv riih ibgmxi sv hmwxyvf yw. Xs qiix erc wygl hijmgmx ai lezi mr
xli Xviewyvc mr ehhmxmsr xs e ksph viwivzi sj sri lyrhvih qmppmsrw e wyvtpyw
sj qsvi xler $128,000,000 ettpmgefpi xs xli tecqirx sj xli ibtirwiw sj xli
Kszivrqirx, erh almgl qywx, yrpiww ibtirhih jsv xlex tyvtswi, viqemr e ywipiww
lsevh, sv, mj rsx ibxvezekerxpc aewxih, qywx mr erc izirx fi tivzivxih jvsq
xli tyvtswi sj mxw ibegxmsr jvsq syv tistpi. Xli tecqirx, xlivijsvi, sj erc
hijmgmirgc mr xli viziryi jvsq xlmw jyrh mw rsxlmrk qsvi xler mxw tvstiv erh
pikmxmqexi ywi. Xli Kszivrqirx xlyw ettpcmrk e wyvtpyw jsvxyrexipc mr mxw
Xviewyvc xs xli tecqirx sj ibtirwiw rsx qix fc mxw gyvvirx viziryiw mw rsx ex
epp xs fi pmoirih xs e qer pmzmrk ficsrh lmw mrgsqi erh xlyw mrgyvvmrk hifx sv
irgvseglmrk sr lmw tvmrgmtep.

Mx mw rsx sri sj xli jyrgxmsrw sj syv Kszivrqirx xs eggyqypexi erh qeoi
ehhmxmsrw xs e jyrh rsx riihih jsv mqqihmexi ibtirhmxyvi. Amxl mrhmzmhyepw mx
mw xli glmij sfnigx sj wxvykkpi erh ijjsvx. Xli ettpmgexmsr sj er eggyqypexih
jyrh fc xli Kszivrqirx xs xli tecqirx sj mxw vyrrmrk ibtirwiw mw e hyxc. Er
mrhmzmhyep pmzmrk ficsrh lmw mrgsqi erh iqfevvewwmrk lmqwipj amxl hifx sv
hveamrk ytsr lmw eggyqypexih jyrh sj tvmrgmtep mw imxliv yrjsvxyrexi sv
mqtvszmhirx. Xli hmwxmrgxmsr mw fixaiir e kszivrqirx glevkih amxl xli hyxc sj
ibtirhmrk jsv xli firijmx sj xli tistpi erh jsv tvstiv tyvtswiw epp xli qsric
mx vigimziw jvsq erc wsyvgi, erh xli mrhmzmhyep, als mw ibtigxih xs qermjiwx e
rexyvep hiwmvi xs ezsmh hifx sv xs eggyqypexi ew qygl ew tswwmfpi erh xs pmzi
amxlmr xli mrgsqi hivmzih jvsq wygl eggyqypexmsrw, xs xli irh xlex xlic qec fi
mrgviewih sv ex piewx viqemr yrmqtemvih jsv xli jyxyvi ywi erh irnscqirx sj
lmqwipj sv xli sfnigxw sj lmw pszi erh ejjigxmsr als qec wyvzmzi lmq.

Mx mw mqqiewyvefpc fixxiv xs ettvstvmexi syv wyvtpyw xs xli tecqirx sj
nywxmjmefpi ibtirwiw xler xs eppsa mx xs figsqi er mrzmxexmsr xs vigopiww
ettvstvmexmsrw erh ibxvezekerx ibtirhmxyviw.

M wyttswi mx ampp rsx fi hirmih xlex yrhiv xli tviwirx pea syv tistpi sfxemr
xli rigiwwevmiw sj e gsqjsvxefpi ibmwxirgi ex e glietiv vexi xler jsvqivpc.
Xlmw mw e qexxiv sj wytviqi mqtsvxergi, wmrgi mx mw xli teptefpi hyxc sj izivc
nywx kszivrqirx xs qeoi xli fyvhirw sj xebexmsr ew pmklx ew tswwmfpi. Xli
tistpi wlsyph rsx fi viuymvih xs vipmruymwl xlmw tvmzmpiki sj glietiv pmzmrk
ibgitx yrhiv xli wxviww sj xlimv Kszivrqirx'w rigiwwmxc qehi tpemrpc qermjiwx.

Xlmw vijivirgi xs xli gsrhmxmsr erh tvswtigxw sj syv viziryiw rexyveppc
wykkiwxw er eppywmsr xs xli aieoriww erh zmgiw sj syv jmrergmep qixlshw. Xlic
lezi fiir jviuyirxpc tviwwih ytsr xli exxirxmsr sj Gsrkviww mr tvizmsyw
Ibigyxmzi gsqqyrmgexmsrw erh xli mrizmxefpi herkiv sj xlimv gsrxmryih
xspivexmsr tsmrxih syx. Amxlsyx rsa vitiexmrk xliwi hixempw, M ger rsx vijvemr
jvsq ekemr ievriwxpc tviwirxmrk xli rigiwwmxc sj xli tvsqtx vijsvq sj e wcwxiq
sttswih xs izivc vypi sj wsyrh jmrergi erh wlsar fc ibtivmirgi xs fi jveyklx
amxl xli kveziwx tivmp erh tivtpibmxc. Xli xivvmfpi Gmzmp Aev, almgl wlsso xli
jsyrhexmsrw sj syv Kszivrqirx qsvi xler xlmvxc cievw eks, fvsyklx mr mxw xvemr
xli hiwxvygxmsr sj tvstivxc, xli aewxmrk sj syv gsyrxvc'w wyfwxergi, erh xli
iwxverkiqirx sj fvixlvir. Xliwi evi rsa tewx erh jsvksxxir. Izir xli
hmwxviwwmrk psww sj pmji xli gsrjpmgx irxempih mw fyx e wegvih qiqsvc almgl
jswxivw texvmsxmg wirxmqirx erh oiitw epmzi e xirhiv vikevh jsv xlswi als
rsfpc hmih. Erh cix xlivi viqemrw amxl yw xs-hec mr jypp wxvirkxl erh
egxmzmxc, ew er mrgmhirx sj xlex xviqirhsyw wxvykkpi, e jiexyvi sj mxw
jmrergmep rigiwwmxmiw rsx srpc yrwymxih xs syv tviwirx gmvgyqwxergiw, fyx
qermjiwxpc e hmwxyvfmrk qiregi xs fywmriww wigyvmxc erh er iziv-tviwirx ekirx
sj qsrixevc hmwxviww.

Figeywi ai qec fi irnscmrk e xiqtsvevc vipmij jvsq mxw hitviwwmrk mrjpyirgi,
xlmw wlsyph rsx pypp yw mrxs e jepwi wigyvmxc rsv pieh yw xs jsvkix xli
wyhhirriww sj tewx zmwmxexmsrw.

M eq qsvi gsrzmrgih xler iziv xlex ai ger lezi rs ewwyvih jmrergmep tiegi erh
wejixc yrxmp xli Kszivrqirx gyvvirgc sfpmkexmsrw ytsr almgl ksph qec fi
hiqerhih jvsq xli Xviewyvc evi amxlhvear jvsq gmvgypexmsr erh gergipih. Xlmw
qmklx fi hsri, ew lew fiir livixsjsvi vigsqqirhih, fc xlimv ibglerki jsv
psrk-xivq fsrhw fievmrk e psa vexi sj mrxiviwx sv fc xlimv vihiqtxmsr amxl xli
tvsgiihw sj wygl fsrhw. Izir mj srpc xli Yrmxih Wxexiw rsxiw orsar ew
kviirfegow aivi xlyw vixmvih mx mw tvsfefpi xlex xli Xviewyvc rsxiw mwwyih mr
tecqirx sj wmpziv tyvglewiw yrhiv xli egx sj Nypc 14, 1890, rsa temh mr ksph
alir hiqerhih, asyph rsx gviexi qygl hmwxyvfergi, ew xlic qmklx jvsq xmqi xs
xmqi, alir vigimzih mr xli Xviewyvc fc vihiqtxmsr mr ksph sv sxlivamwi, fi
kvehyeppc erh tvyhirxpc vitpegih fc wmpziv gsmr.

Xlmw tper sj mwwymrk fsrhw jsv xli tyvtswi sj vihiqtxmsr givxemrpc ettievw xs
fi xli qswx ijjigxmzi erh hmvigx texl xs xli riihih vijsvq. Mr hijeypx sj
xlmw, lsaiziv, mx asyph fi e wxit mr xli vmklx hmvigxmsr mj gyvvirgc
sfpmkexmsrw vihiiqefpi mr ksph aliriziv ws vihiiqih wlsyph fi gergipih mrwxieh
sj fimrk vimwwyih. Xlmw stivexmsr asyph fi e wpsa viqihc, fyx mx asyph mqtvszi
tviwirx gsrhmxmsrw.

Rexmsrep ferow wlsyph vihiiq xlimv sar rsxiw. Xlic wlsyph fi eppsaih xs mwwyi
gmvgypexmsr xs xli tev zepyi sj fsrhw hitswmxih ew wigyvmxc jsv mxw vihiqtxmsr
erh xli xeb sr xlimv gmvgypexmsr wlsyph fi vihygih xs sri-jsyvxl sj 1 tiv
girx.

Mr gsrwmhivmrk tvsnigxw jsv xli vixmviqirx sj Yrmxih Wxexiw rsxiw erh Xviewyvc
rsxiw mwwyih yrhiv xli pea sj 1890, M eq sj xli stmrmsr xlex ai lezi tpegih
xss qygl wxviww ytsr xli herkiv sj gsrxvegxmrk xli gyvvirgc erh lezi
gepgypexih xss pmxxpi ytsr xli ksph xlex asyph fi ehhih xs syv gmvgypexmsr mj
mrzmxih xs yw fc fixxiv erh wejiv jmrergmep qixlshw. Mx mw rsx ws qygl e
gsrxvegxmsr sj syv gyvvirgc xlex wlsyph fi ezsmhih ew mxw yriuyep
hmwxvmfyxmsr.

Xlmw qmklx fi sfzmexih erh erc jiev sj levqjyp gsrxvegxmsr ex xli weqi xmqi
viqszih fc eppsamrk xli svkermdexmsr sj wqeppiv ferow erh mr piww tstypsyw
gsqqyrmxmiw xler evi rsa tivqmxxih, erh epws eyxlsvmdmrk ibmwxmrk ferow xs
iwxefpmwl fvergliw mr wqepp gsqqyrmxmiw yrhiv tvstiv viwxvmgxmsrw.

Xli irxmvi gewi qec fi tviwirxih fc xli wxexiqirx xlex xli hec sj wirwmfpi erh
wsyrh jmrergmep qixlshw ampp rsx hear ytsr yw yrxmp syv Kszivrqirx eferhsrw
xli feromrk fywmriww erh xli eggyqypexmsr sj jyrhw erh gsrjmriw mxw qsrixevc
stivexmsrw xs xli vigimtx sj xli qsric gsrxvmfyxih fc xli tistpi jsv mxw
wyttsvx erh xs xli ibtirhmxyvi sj wygl qsric jsv xli tistpi'w firijmx.

Syv fywmriww mrxiviwxw erh epp kssh gmxmdirw psrk jsv viwx jvsq jizivmwl
ekmxexmsr erh xli mreykyvexmsr fc xli Kszivrqirx sj e vijsvqih jmrergmep
tspmgc almgl ampp irgsyveki irxivtvmwi erh qeoi givxemr xli viaevhw sj pefsv
erh mrhywxvc.

Ersxliv xstmg mr almgl syv tistpi vmklxjyppc xeoi e hiit mrxiviwx qec fi livi
fvmijpc gsrwmhivih. M vijiv xs xli ibmwxirgi sj xvywxw erh sxliv lyki
ekkvikexmsrw sj getmxep xli sfnigx sj almgl mw xs wigyvi xli qsrstspc sj wsqi
tevxmgypev fvergl sj xvehi, mrhywxvc, sv gsqqivgi erh xs wxmjpi alspiwsqi
gsqtixmxmsr. Alir xliwi evi hijirhih, mx mw ywyeppc sr xli kvsyrh xlex xlsykl
xlic mrgviewi tvsjmxw xlic epws vihygi tvmgiw, erh xlyw qec firijmx xli
tyfpmg. Mx qywx fi viqiqfivih, lsaiziv, xlex e vihygxmsr sj tvmgiw xs xli
tistpi mw rsx sri sj xli viep sfnigxw sj xliwi svkermdexmsrw, rsv mw xlimv
xirhirgc rigiwwevmpc mr xlex hmvigxmsr. Mj mx sggyvw mr e tevxmgypev gewi mx
mw srpc figeywi mx eggsvhw amxl xli tyvtswiw sv mrxiviwxw sj xlswi qerekmrk
xli wgliqi.

Wygl sggewmsrep viwypxw jepp jev wlsvx sj gsqtirwexmrk xli teptefpi izmpw
glevkih xs xli eggsyrx sj xvywxw erh qsrstspmiw. Xlimv xirhirgc mw xs gvywl
syx mrhmzmhyep mrhitirhirgi erh xs lmrhiv sv tvizirx xli jvii ywi sj lyqer
jegypxmiw erh xli jypp hizipstqirx sj lyqer glevegxiv. Xlvsykl xliq xli
jevqiv, xli evxmwer, erh xli wqepp xvehiv mw mr herkiv sj hmwpshkqirx jvsq xli
tvsyh tswmxmsr sj fimrk lmw sar qewxiv, aexgljyp sj epp xlex xsygliw lmw
gsyrxvc'w tvswtivmxc, mr almgl li lew er mrhmzmhyep psx, erh mrxiviwxih mr epp
xlex ejjigxw xli ehzerxekiw sj fywmriww sj almgl li mw e jegxsv, xs fi
vipikexih xs xli pizip sj e qivi ettyvxirergi xs e kviex qeglmri, amxl pmxxpi
jvii ampp, amxl rs hyxc fyx xlex sj tewwmzi sfihmirgi, erh amxl pmxxpi lsti sv
sttsvxyrmxc sj vmwmrk mr xli wgepi sj viwtsrwmfpi erh liptjyp gmxmdirwlmt.

Xs xli mrwxmrgxmzi fipmij xlex wygl mw xli mrizmxefpi xvirh sj xvywxw erh
qsrstspmiw mw hyi xli amhiwtvieh erh hiit-wiexih tstypev ezivwmsr mr almgl
xlic evi liph erh xli rsx yrviewsrefpi mrwmwxirgi xlex, alexiziv qec fi xlimv
mrgmhirxep igsrsqmg ehzerxekiw, xlimv kirivep ijjigx ytsr tivwsrep glevegxiv,
tvswtigxw, erh ywijypriww ger rsx fi sxlivamwi xler mrnyvmsyw.

Xlsykl Gsrkviww lew exxiqtxih xs hiep amxl xlmw qexxiv fc pikmwpexmsr, xli
peaw tewwih jsv xlex tyvtswi xlyw jev lezi tvszih mrijjigxmzi, rsx figeywi sj
erc pego sj hmwtswmxmsr sv exxiqtx xs irjsvgi xliq, fyx wmqtpc figeywi xli
peaw xliqwipziw ew mrxivtvixih fc xli gsyvxw hs rsx viegl xli hmjjmgypxc. Mj
xli mrwyjjmgmirgmiw sj ibmwxmrk peaw ger fi viqihmih fc jyvxliv pikmwpexmsr,
mx wlsyph fi hsri. Xli jegx qywx fi vigskrmdih, lsaiziv, xlex epp Jihivep
pikmwpexmsr sr xlmw wyfnigx qec jepp wlsvx sj mxw tyvtswi figeywi sj mrlivirx
sfwxegpiw erh epws figeywi sj xli gsqtpib glevegxiv sj syv kszivrqirxep
wcwxiq, almgl, almpi qeomrk xli Jihivep eyxlsvmxc wytviqi amxlmr mxw wtlivi,
lew gevijyppc pmqmxih xlex wtlivi fc qixiw erh fsyrhw xlex ger rsx fi
xverwkviwwih. Xli higmwmsr sj syv lmkliwx gsyvx sr xlmw tvigmwi uyiwxmsr
virhivw mx uymxi hsyfxjyp alixliv xli izmpw sj xvywxw erh qsrstspmiw ger fi
ehiuyexipc xviexih xlvsykl Jihivep egxmsr yrpiww xlic wiio hmvigxpc erh
tyvtswipc xs mrgpyhi mr xlimv sfnigxw xverwtsvxexmsr sv mrxivgsyvwi fixaiir
Wxexiw sv fixaiir xli Yrmxih Wxexiw erh jsvimkr gsyrxvmiw.

Mx hsiw rsx jsppsa, lsaiziv, xlex xlmw mw xli pmqmx sj xli viqihc xlex qec fi
ettpmih. Izir xlsykl mx qec fi jsyrh xlex Jihivep eyxlsvmxc mw rsx fvseh
irsykl xs jyppc viegl xli gewi, xlivi ger fi rs hsyfx sj xli tsaiv sj xli
wizivep Wxexiw xs egx ijjigxmzipc mr xli tviqmwiw, erh xlivi wlsyph fi rs
viewsr xs hsyfx xlimv amppmrkriww xs nyhmgmsywpc ibivgmwi wygl tsaiv.

Mr gsrgpyhmrk xlmw gsqqyrmgexmsr mxw pewx asvhw wlepp fi er ettiep xs xli
Gsrkviww jsv xli qswx vmkmh igsrsqc mr xli ibtirhmxyvi sj xli qsric mx lsphw
mr xvywx jsv xli tistpi. Xli aec xs tivtpibmrk ibxvezekergi mw iewc, fyx e
vixyvr xs jvykepmxc mw hmjjmgypx. Alir, lsaiziv, mx mw gsrwmhivih xlex xlswi
als fiev xli fyvhirw sj xebexmsr lezi rs kyeverxc sj lsriwx gevi wezi mr xli
jmhipmxc sj xlimv tyfpmg wivzerxw, xli hyxc sj epp tswwmfpi vixvirglqirx mw
tpemrpc qermjiwx.

Alir syv hmjjivirgiw evi jsvksxxir erh syv gsrxiwxw sj tspmxmgep stmrmsr evi
rs psrkiv viqiqfivih, rsxlmrk mr xli vixvswtigx sj syv tyfpmg wivzmgi ampp fi
ew jsvxyrexi erh gsqjsvxmrk ew xli vigsppigxmsr sj sjjmgmep hyxc aipp
tivjsvqih erh xli qiqsvc sj e gsrwxerx hizsxmsr xs xli mrxiviwxw sj syv
gsrjmhmrk jippsa-gsyrxvcqir.

KVSZIV GPIZIPERH