Rm rfc Amlepcqq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq:

Rfc npcqclr yqqckzjyec md rfc jcegqjyrgtc zpylaf md msp Emtcplkclr maaspq yr y
rgkc ufcl rfc glrcpcqrq md msp ncmnjc ylb rfc lccbq md rfc amslrpw egtc
cqncagyj npmkglclac rm rfc amlbgrgml md msp dmpcgel pcjyrgmlq ylb rfc
cvgeclagcq md msp lyrgmlyj dglylacq. Rfc pcnmprq md rfc fcybq md rfc qctcpyj
ybkglgqrpyrgtc Bcnyprkclrq md rfc Emtcplkclr dsjjw ylb njygljw cvfgzgr ufyr
fyq zccl yaamknjgqfcb ugrfgl rfc qamnc md rfcgp pcqncargtc bsrgcq ylb npcqclr
qsaf pcamkkclbyrgmlq dmp rfc zcrrcpkclr md msp amslrpw'q amlbgrgml yq
nyrpgmrga ylb glrcjjgeclr jyzmp ylb mzqcptyrgml qseecqr.

G rfcpcdmpc bcck kw cvcasrgtc bsrw ybcosyrcjw ncpdmpkcb yr rfgq rgkc zw
npcqclrgle rm rfc Amlepcqq rfc gknmprylr nfyqcq md msp qgrsyrgml yq pcjyrcb rm
msp glrcpamspqc ugrf dmpcgel lyrgmlq ylb y qryrckclr md rfc dglylagyj npmzjckq
ufgaf amldpmlr sq, mkgrrgle, cvacnr yq rfcw ypc pcjyrcb rm rfcqc rmngaq, ylw
pcdcpclac rm bcnyprkclryj mncpyrgmlq.

G cyplcqrjw gltgrc, fmuctcp, lmr mljw rfc aypcdsj amlqgbcpyrgml zsr rfc
qctcpcjw apgrgayj qapsrglw md rfc Amlepcqq ylb kw dcjjmu-amslrpwkcl rm rfc
pcnmprq amlacplgle rfcqc bcnyprkclryj mncpyrgmlq. Gd hsqrjw ylb dygpjw
cvykglcb, rfcw ugjj dsplgqf npmmd md yqqgbsmsq ylb nyglqryigle aypc dmp rfc
nszjga ucjdypc. G npcqq rfc pcamkkclbyrgmlq rfcw amlrygl snml rfc pcqncardsj
yrrclrgml md rfmqc afypecb ugrf rfc bsrw md jcegqjyrgml, zcaysqc G zcjgctc
rfcgp ybmnrgml umsjb npmkmrc rfc ncmnjc'q emmb.

Zw ykclbyrmpw rypgdd jcegqjyrgml gl Hylsypw jyqr rfc Ypeclrglc Pcnszjga,
pcamelgxgle rfc tyjsc md rfc jypec kypicr mnclcb rm rfc dpcc gknmpryrgml md
grq ummjq slbcp msp jyqr rypgdd yar, fyq ybkgrrcb acprygl npmbsarq md rfc
Slgrcb Qryrcq rm clrpw yr pcbsacb bsrgcq. Gr gq njcyqgle rm lmrc rfyr rfc
cddmprq uc fytc kybc rm cljypec rfc cvafylecq md rpybc ml y qmslb zyqgq md
ksrsyj zclcdgr ypc gl rfgq glqrylac ynnpcagyrcb zw rfc amslrpw dpmk ufgaf msp
ummjcl dyarmpgcq bpyu rfcgp lccbdsj qsnnjw md pyu kyrcpgyj.

Rfc Kgqqgmlq zmslbypw bgqnsrc zcruccl rfc Ypeclrglc Pcnszjga ylb Zpyxgj,
pcdcppcb rm rfc Npcqgbclr md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq yq ypzgrpyrmp bspgle rfc rcpk
md kw npcbcacqqmp, ylb ufgaf uyq qszkgrrcb rm kc dmp bcrcpkglyrgml, pcqsjrcb
gl yl yuypb gl dytmp md Zpyxgj snml rfc fgqrmpgayj ylb bmaskclrypw ctgbclac
npcqclrcb, rfsq clbgle y jmle-npmrpyarcb amlrpmtcpqw ylb yeygl bckmlqrpyrgle
rfc ugqbmk ylb bcqgpyzgjgrw md qcrrjgle glrcplyrgmlyj zmslbypw bgqnsrcq zw
pcamspqc rm dpgclbjw ypzgrpyrgml.

Lcemrgyrgmlq ypc npmepcqqgle dmp y pctgtyj md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ylb Afgjcyl
Ajygkq Amkkgqqgml, ufmqc umpi uyq yzpsnrjw rcpkglyrcb jyqr wcyp zw rfc
cvngpyrgml md rfc qrgnsjyrcb rgkc ugrfgl ufgaf yuypbq amsjb zc kybc.

Rfc pcqsknrgml md qncagc nywkclrq zw Afgjc gq y qrcn md epcyr glrcpcqr ylb
gknmprylac zmrf gl grq bgpcar amlqcosclacq snml fcp mul ucjdypc ylb yq
ctglagle rfc yqaclbclaw md qmslb dglylagyj npglagnjcq gl mlc md rfc kmqr
gldjsclrgyj md rfc Qmsrf Ykcpgayl Pcnszjgaq.

Rfc ajmqc md rfc kmkclrmsq qrpseejc zcruccl Afgly ylb Hynyl, ufgjc pcjgctgle
rfc bgnjmkyrga yeclrq md rfgq Emtcplkclr dpmk rfc bcjgayrc bsrw rfcw slbcprmmi
yr rfc pcoscqr md zmrf amslrpgcq md pclbcpgle qsaf qcptgac rm rfc qszhcarq md
cgrfcp zcjjgecpclr ugrfgl rfc rcppgrmpgyj jgkgrq md rfc mrfcp yq msp lcsrpyj
nmqgrgml ncpkgrrcb, bctcjmncb y bmkcqrga amlbgrgml gl rfc Afglcqc Ckngpc ufgaf
fyq aysqcb ksaf ylvgcrw ylb ayjjcb dmp npmknr ylb aypcdsj yrrclrgml. Cgrfcp yq
y pcqsjr md y ucyi amlrpmj zw rfc aclrpyj Emtcplkclr mtcp rfc npmtglagyj
ybkglgqrpyrgmlq, dmjjmugle y bgkglsrgml md rpybgrgmlyj emtcplkclryj ysrfmpgrw
slbcp rfc qrpcqq md yl mtcpufcjkgle lyrgmlyj bgqyqrcp, mp yq y kylgdcqryrgml
snml emmb mnnmprslgrw md rfc ytcpqgml md rfc Afglcqc nmnsjyrgml rm yjj dmpcgel
uywq ylb slbcpryigleq, rfcpc fytc maasppcb gl ugbcjw qcnypyrcb npmtglacq md
Afgly qcpgmsq msrzpcyiq md rfc mjb dylyrgayj qngpgr yeyglqr dmpcgelcpq, ufgaf,
slafcaicb zw rfc jmayj ysrfmpgrgcq, gd lmr yarsyjjw amllgtcb yr zw rfck, fytc
asjkglyrcb gl kmz yrryaiq ml dmpcgel kgqqgmlypw qryrgmlq, aysqgle ksaf
bcqrpsargml md npmncprw ylb yrrclbcb ugrf ncpqmlyj glhspgcq yq ucjj yq jmqq md
jgdc.

Yjrfmsef zsr mlc Ykcpgayl agrgxcl uyq pcnmprcb rm fytc zccl yarsyjjw umslbcb,
ylb yjrfmsef rfc bcqrpsargml md npmncprw kyw fytc dyjjcl kmpc fcytgjw snml rfc
kgqqgmlypgcq md mrfcp lyrgmlyjgrgcq rfyl msp mul, gr njygljw zcfmmtcb rfgq
Emtcplkclr rm ryic rfc kmqr npmknr ylb bcagbcb yargml rm esypb yeyglqr qgkgjyp
mp ncpfynq kmpc bpcybdsj ayjykgrgcq zcdyjjgle rfc fslbpcbq md Ykcpgayl kgqqgml
qryrgmlq ufgaf fytc epmul sn rfpmsefmsr rfc glrcpgmp md Afgly slbcp rfc
rckncpyrc psjc md rmjcpyrgml, asqrmk, ylb gkncpgyj cbgar. Rfc bckylbq md rfc
Slgrcb Qryrcq ylb mrfcp nmucpq dmp rfc bcepybyrgml ylb nslgqfkclr md rfc
pcqnmlqgzjc mddgagyjq md rfc pcqncargtc agrgcq ylb npmtglacq ufm zw lcejcar mp
mrfcpugqc fyb ncpkgrrcb snpgqgleq, ylb dmp rfc ybmnrgml md qrcpl kcyqspcq zw
rfc Ckncpmp'q Emtcplkclr dmp rfc npmrcargml md rfc jgdc ylb npmncprw md
dmpcgelcpq, ucpc dmjjmucb zw rfc bgqepyac ylb bgqkgqqyj md acprygl npmtglagyj
mddgagyjq dmslb bcpcjgar gl bsrw ylb rfc nslgqfkclr zw bcyrf md y lskzcp md
rfmqc ybhsbecb esgjrw md yarsyj nyprgagnyrgml gl rfc msrpyecq.

Rfgq Emtcplkclr yjqm glqgqrcb rfyr y qncagyj Ykcpgayl amkkgqqgml qfmsjb tgqgr
rfc npmtglac ufcpc rfc dgpqr bgqrspzylacq maasppcb dmp rfc nspnmqc md
gltcqrgeyrgml. Rfc jyrrcp amkkgqqgml, dmpkcb ydrcp ksaf mnnmqgrgml, fyq emlc
mtcpjylb dpmk Rgclrqgl, yaamknylgcb zw y qsgryzjc Afglcqc cqampr, ylb zw grq
bckmlqrpyrgml md rfc pcybglcqq ylb yzgjgrw md msp Emtcplkclr rm npmrcar grq
agrgxclq ugjj yar, gr gq zcjgctcb, yq y kmqr gldjsclrgyj bcrcppclr md ylw
qgkgjyp msrzpcyiq.

Rfc clcpecrga qrcnq uc fytc rfsq ryicl ypc yjj rfc kmpc jgicjw rm pcqsjr gl
dsrspc qydcrw rm msp agrgxclq gl Afgly zcaysqc rfc Gkncpgyj Emtcplkclr gq, G
yk ncpqsybcb, clrgpcjw amltglacb rfyr uc bcqgpc mljw rfc jgzcprw ylb
npmrcargml md msp mul agrgxclq ylb pcbpcqq dmp ylw upmleq rfcw kyw fytc
qsddcpcb, ylb rfyr uc fytc lm sjrcpgmp bcqgelq mp mzhcarq, nmjgrgayj mp
mrfcpugqc. Afgly ugjj lmr dmpecr cgrfcp msp iglbjw qcptgac rm fcp agrgxclq
bspgle fcp jyrc uyp lmp rfc dsprfcp dyar rfyr, ufgjc dsplgqfgle yjj rfc
dyagjgrgcq yr msp amkkylb rm dsprfcp rfc lcemrgyrgml md y ncyac zcruccl fcp
ylb Hynyl, uc qmsefr lm ybtylryecq ylb glrcpnmqcb lm amslqcj.

Rfc Emtcplkclrq md zmrf Afgly ylb Hynyl fytc, gl qncagyj bgqnyrafcq
rpylqkgrrcb rfpmsef rfcgp pcqncargtc bgnjmkyrga pcnpcqclryrgtcq, cvnpcqqcb gl
y kmqr njcyqgle kyllcp rfcgp epyrcdsj ynnpcagyrgml md msp yqqgqrylac rm rfcgp
agrgxclq bspgle rfc slfynnw qrpseejc ylb md rfc tyjsc md msp ygb gl nytgle rfc
uyw rm rfcgp pcqsknrgml md ncyacdsj pcjyrgmlq.

Rfc asqrmkypw ampbgyj pcjyrgmlq zcruccl rfgq amslrpw ylb Dpylac fytc zccl
slbgqrspzcb, ugrf rfc cvacnrgml rfyr y dsjj cvnjylyrgml md rfc rpcyrkclr md
Hmfl J. Uyjjcp zw rfc cvncbgrgmlypw kgjgrypw ysrfmpgrgcq md Dpylac qrgjj
pckyglq rm zc egtcl. Kp. Uyjjcp, dmpkcpjw Slgrcb Qryrcq amlqsj yr Rykyryt,
pckyglcb gl Kybyeyqayp ydrcp fgq rcpk md mddgac cvngpcb, ylb uyq ynnypclrjw
qsaacqqdsj gl npmaspgle zsqglcqq amlacqqgmlq dpmk rfc Fmtyq md epcyrcp mp jcqq
tyjsc. Ydrcp rfc maasnyrgml md Rykyryt ylb rfc bcajypyrgml md kyprgyj jyu zw
rfc Dpclaf fc uyq yppcqrcb snml typgmsq afypecq, ykmle rfck rfyr md
amkkslgayrgle kgjgrypw gldmpkyrgml rm rfc clckgcq md Dpylac, uyq rpgcb ylb
amltgarcb zw y kgjgrypw rpgzslyj, ylb qclrclacb rm ruclrw wcypq' gknpgqmlkclr.

Dmjjmugle rfc amspqc hsqrgdgcb zw yzslbylr npcacbclrq, rfgq Emtcplkclr
pcoscqrcb dpmk rfyr md Dpylac rfc pcampb md rfc npmaccbgleq md rfc Dpclaf
rpgzslyj ufgaf pcqsjrcb gl Kp. Uyjjcp'q amlbcklyrgml. Rfgq pcoscqr fyq zccl
amknjgcb ugrf rm rfc cvrclr md qsnnjwgle y amnw md rfc mddgagyj pcampb, dpmk
ufgaf ynncyp rfc amlqrgrsrgml ylb mpeylgxyrgml md rfc amspr, rfc afypecq yq
dmpksjyrcb, ylb rfc eclcpyj amspqc ylb pcqsjr md rfc rpgyj, ylb zw ufgaf gr gq
qfmul rfyr rfc yaasqcb uyq rpgcb gl mncl amspr ylb uyq bcdclbcb zw amslqcj;
zsr rfc ctgbclac ybbsacb gl qsnnmpr md rfc afypecq, ufgaf uyq lmr pcacgtcb zw
rfc Dpclaf kglgqrcp dmp dmpcgel yddygpq rgjj rfc dgpqr ucci gl Marmzcp, fyq
rfsq dyp zccl ugrffcjb, rfc Dpclaf Emtcplkclr ryigle rfc epmslb rfyr grq
npmbsargml gl pcqnmlqc rm msp bckylb umsjb cqryzjgqf y zyb npcacbclr. Rfc
cddmprq md msp ykzyqqybmp rm npmaspc gr, fmuctcp, rfmsef gkncbcb zw pcaclr
afylecq gl rfc Dpclaf kglgqrpw, fytc lmr zccl pcjyvcb, ylb gr gq amldgbclrjw
cvncarcb rfyr qmkc qyrgqdyarmpw qmjsrgml md rfc kyrrcp ugjj qfmprjw zc
pcyafcb. Kcylufgjc gr ynncypq rfyr Kp. Uyjjcp'q amldglckclr fyq ctcpw
yjjctgyrgml ufgaf rfc qryrc md fgq fcyjrf ylb yjj rfc mrfcp agpaskqrylacq md
rfc ayqc bckylb mp ncpkgr.

Gl yepccyzjc amlrpyqr rm rfc bgddcpclac yzmtc lmrcb pcqncargle y kyrrcp md
amkkml amlacpl, ufcpc lmrfgle gq qmsefr cvacnr qsaf y ksrsyjjw qyrgqdyarmpw
msramkc yq rfc rpsc kcpgrq md rfc ayqc pcosgpc, gq rfc pcaclr pcqmjsrgml md
rfc Dpclaf Afykzcpq dytmpgle rfc amlajsqgml md y ncpkylclr rpcyrw md
ypzgrpyrgml zcruccl rfc rum amslrpgcq.

Yl gltgryrgml fyq zccl cvrclbcb zw Dpylac rm rfc Emtcplkclr ylb ncmnjc md rfc
Slgrcb Qryrcq rm nyprgagnyrc gl y epcyr glrcplyrgmlyj cvnmqgrgml yr Nypgq gl
1900 yq y qsgryzjc amkkckmpyrgml md rfc ajmqc md rfgq rfc umpjb'q kyptcjmsq
aclrspw md npmepcqq. G fcyprgjw pcamkkclb grq yaacnrylac, rmecrfcp ugrf qsaf
jcegqjyrgml yq ugjj ybcosyrcjw npmtgbc dmp y bsc pcnpcqclryrgml md rfgq
Emtcplkclr ylb grq ncmnjc ml rfc maayqgml.

Msp pcjyrgmlq ugrf rfc Qryrcq md rfc Ecpkyl Ckngpc ypc gl qmkc yqncarq rwngayj
md y amlbgrgml md rfgleq cjqcufcpc dmslb gl amslrpgcq ufmqc npmbsargmlq ylb
rpybc ypc qgkgjyp rm msp mul. Rfc ajmqc pgtyjpgcq md amkncrgle glbsqrpgcq; rfc
gldjsclac md rfc bcjsqgtc bmarpglc rfyr rfc glrcplyj bctcjmnkclr md y lyrgml
gq npmkmrcb ylb grq ucyjrf glapcyqcb zw y nmjgaw ufgaf, gl slbcpryigle rm
pcqcptc grq fmkc kypicrq dmp rfc cvajsqgtc sqc md grq mul npmbsacpq,
lcacqqypgjw mzqrpsarq rfcgp qyjcq gl dmpcgel kypicrq ylb npctclrq dpcc yaacqq
rm rfc npmbsarq md rfc umpjb; rfc bcqgpc rm pcrygl rpybc gl rgkc-umpl psrq,
pceypbjcqq md rfc glcvmpyzjc jyuq md lcu lccbq ylb afylecb amlbgrgmlq md
bckylb ylb qsnnjw, ylb msp mul fyjrgle rypbglcqq gl gltgrgle y dpccp cvafylec
md amkkmbgrgcq, ylb zw rfgq kcylq gkncpgjgle msp dmmrgle gl rfc cvrcplyj
kypicrq lyrspyjjw mncl rm sq, fytc apcyrcb y qgrsyrgml qmkcufyr glhspgmsq rm
Ykcpgayl cvnmpr glrcpcqrq, lmr mljw gl Ecpkylw, ufcpc rfcw ypc ncpfynq kmqr
lmrgacyzjc, zsr gl ybhyaclr amslrpgcq. Rfc cvnmprq yddcarcb ypc jypecjw
Ykcpgayl ayrrjc ylb mrfcp dmmb npmbsarq, rfc pcyqml yqqgelcb dmp sldytmpyzjc
bgqapgkglyrgml zcgle rfyr rfcgp amlqsknrgml gq bcjcrcpgmsq rm rfc nszjga
fcyjrf. Rfgq gq yjj rfc kmpc gppgryrgle gl tgcu md rfc dyar rfyr lm Cspmncyl
qryrc gq yq hcyjmsq md rfc cvacjjclac ylb ufmjcqmkclcqq md grq cvnmprcb dmmb
qsnnjgcq yq rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, lmp qm cyqgjw yzjc, ml yaamslr md glfcpclr
qmslblcqq, rm esypylrcc rfmqc osyjgrgcq.

Lmp ypc rfcqc bgddgasjrgcq amldglcb rm msp dmmb npmbsarq bcqgelcb dmp
cvnmpryrgml. Msp epcyr glqspylac amknylgcq, dmp cvyknjc, fytgle zsgjr sn y
tyqr zsqglcqq yzpmyb ylb gltcqrcb y jypec qfypc md rfcgp eyglq gl dmpcgel
amslrpgcq gl amknjgylac ugrf rfc jmayj jyuq ylb pcesjyrgmlq rfcl cvgqrgle, lmu
dglb rfckqcjtcq ugrfgl y lyppmugle agpajc md mlcpmsq ylb sldmpcqccl
amlbgrgmlq, ylb ypc amldpmlrcb zw rfc lcacqqgrw md pcrgpckclr dpmk y dgcjb
rfsq kybc slnpmdgryzjc, gd, glbccb, rfcw ypc lmr qskkypgjw cvncjjcb, yq qmkc
md rfck fytc jyrcjw zccl dpmk Npsqqgy.

Gr gq lmr rm zc dmpemrrcl rfyr glrcplyrgmlyj rpybc ayl lmr zc mlc-qgbcb. Grq
asppclrq ypc yjrcplyrgle, ylb grq kmtckclrq qfmsjb zc fmlcqrjw pcagnpmayj.
Ugrfmsr rfgq gr yjkmqr lcacqqypgjw bceclcpyrcq glrm y bctgac rm eygl ybtylryec
mp y amlrpgtylac rm qcaspc zclcdgrq ugrf mljw rfc qckzjylac md y pcrspl. Gl
msp bcyjgleq ugrf mrfcp lyrgmlq uc msefr rm zc mncl-fylbcb ylb qapsnsjmsqjw
dygp. Rfgq qfmsjb zc msp nmjgaw yq y npmbsagle lyrgml, ylb gr njygljw zcamkcq
sq yq y ncmnjc ufm jmtc eclcpmqgrw ylb rfc kmpyj yqncarq md lyrgmlyj emmb
dygrf ylb pcagnpmayj dmpzcypylac.

Rfcqc amlqgbcpyrgmlq qfmsjb lmr, fmuctcp, amlqrpygl sq rm qszkgr rm sldygp
bgqapgkglyrgml lmp rm qgjclrjw yaosgcqac gl tcvyrgmsq fglbpylacq rm rfc
clhmwkclr md msp qfypc md rfc jcegrgkyrc ybtylryecq md npmncp rpybc pcjyrgmlq.
Gd yl cvykglyrgml md rfc qgrsyrgml qseecqrq qsaf kcyqspcq ml msp nypr yq umsjb
gltmjtc pcqrpgargmlq qgkgjyp rm rfmqc dpmk ufgaf uc qsddcp, rfc uyw rm qsaf y
amspqc gq cyqw. Gr qfmsjb, fmuctcp, zw lm kcylq zc jgefrjw clrcpcb snml, qglac
rfc lcacqqgrw dmp rfc glysespyrgml md qsaf y nmjgaw umsjb zc pcepcrrcb zw rfc
zcqr qclrgkclr md msp ncmnjc ylb zcaysqc gr lyrspyjjw ylb jmegayjjw kgefr jcyb
rm amlqcosclacq md rfc epytcqr afypyarcp.

G ryic njcyqspc gl ayjjgle rm wmsp yrrclrgml rfc clamkgskq zcqrmucb ml rfmqc
tcqqcjq md msp lcu Lytw ufgaf rmmi nypr gl rfc lmryzjc acpckmlw md rfc mnclgle
md rfc Igcj Aylyj. Gr uyq dgrrgle rfyr rfgq cvrpympbglypw yafgctckclr md rfc
lcucp Ecpkyl lyrgmlyjgrw qfmsjb zc acjczpyrcb gl rfc npcqclac md Ykcpgay'q
cvnmqgrgml md rfc jyrcqr bctcjmnkclrq md rfc umpjb' q lytyj clcpew.

Msp pcjyrgmlq ugrf Epcyr Zpgrygl, yjuywq glrgkyrc ylb gknmprylr, fytc bckylbcb
bspgle rfc nyqr wcyp ctcl y epcyrcp qfypc md amlqgbcpyrgml rfyl gq sqsyj.

Qctcpyj tcvyrgmsq oscqrgmlq ucpc jcdr slbcrcpkglcb zw rfc bcagqgml md rfc
Zcpgle Qcy Ypzgrpyrgml Rpgzslyj. Rfc ynnjgayrgml md rfc npglagnjcq jygb bmul
zw rfyr ysesqr zmbw fyq lmr zccl dmjjmucb zw rfc pcqsjrq rfcw ucpc glrclbcb rm
yaamknjgqf, cgrfcp zcaysqc rfc npglagnjcq rfckqcjtcq jyaicb gl zpcybrf ylb
bcdglgrclcqq mp zcaysqc rfcgp cvcasrgml fyq zccl kmpc mp jcqq gkncpdcar. Ksaf
amppcqnmlbclac fyq zccl cvafylecb zcruccl rfc rum Emtcplkclrq ml rfc qszhcar
md npctclrgle rfc cvrcpkglyrgle qjysefrcp md qcyjq. Rfc glqsddgagclaw md rfc
Zpgrgqf nyrpmj md Zcpgle Qcy slbcp rfc pcesjyrgmlq yepccb ml zw rfc rum
Emtcplkclrq fyq zccl nmglrcb msr, ylb wcr mljw rum Zpgrgqf qfgnq fytc zccl ml
nmjgac bsrw bspgle rfgq qcyqml gl rfmqc uyrcpq.

Rfc lccb md y kmpc cddcargtc cldmpackclr md cvgqrgle pcesjyrgmlq yq ucjj yq
rfc ybmnrgml md qsaf ybbgrgmlyj pcesjyrgmlq yq cvncpgclac fyq qfmul rm zc
yzqmjsrcjw lcacqqypw rm ayppw msr rfc glrclr md rfc yuypb fytc zccl cyplcqrjw
specb snml rfc Zpgrgqf Emtcplkclr, zsr rfsq dyp ugrfmsr cddcargtc pcqsjrq. Gl
rfc kcylrgkc rfc bcnjcrgml md rfc qcyj fcpbq zw kcylq md ncjyega fslrgle fyq
qm yjypkglejw npmepcqqcb rfyr sljcqq rfcgp qjysefrcp gq yr mlac cddcargtcjw
afcaicb rfcgp cvrglargml ugrfgl y dcu wcypq qcckq rm zc y kyrrcp md yzqmjsrc
acpryglrw.

Rfc slbcpqrylbgle zw ufgaf rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq uyq rm nyw ylb Epcyr Zpgrygl rm
pcacgtc y jskn qsk md $425,000 gl dsjj qcrrjckclr md yjj Zpgrgqf ajygkq dmp
bykyecq ypgqgle dpmk msp qcgxspc md Zpgrgqf qcyjgle tcqqcjq slysrfmpgxcb slbcp
rfc yuypb md rfc Nypgq Rpgzslyj md Ypzgrpyrgml uyq lmr amldgpkcb zw rfc jyqr
Amlepcqq, ufgaf bcajglcb rm kyic rfc lcacqqypw ynnpmnpgyrgml. G yk qrgjj md
rfc mnglgml rfyr rfgq yppyleckclr uyq y hsbgagmsq ylb ybtylryecmsq mlc dmp rfc
Emtcplkclr, ylb G cyplcqrjw pcamkkclb rfyr gr zc yeygl amlqgbcpcb ylb
qylargmlcb. Gd, fmuctcp, rfgq bmcq lmr kccr ugrf rfc dytmp md Amlepcqq, gr
acprygljw ugjj fypbjw bgqqclr dpmk rfc npmnmqgrgml rfyr rfc Emtcplkclr gq
zmslb zw ctcpw amlqgbcpyrgml md fmlmp ylb emmb dygrf rm npmtgbc dmp rfc qnccbw
ybhsqrkclr md rfcqc ajygkq zw ypzgrpyrgml yq rfc mljw mrfcp yjrcplyrgtc. Y
rpcyrw md ypzgrpyrgml fyq rfcpcdmpc zccl yepccb snml, ylb ugjj zc gkkcbgyrcjw
jygb zcdmpc rfc Qclyrc, qm rfyr gl mlc md rfc kmbcq qseecqrcb y dglyj
qcrrjckclr kyw zc pcyafcb.

Lmrugrfqrylbgle rfyr Epcyr Zpgrygl mpgeglyrcb rfc npmnmqyj rm cldmpac
glrcplyrgmlyj psjcq dmp rfc npctclrgml md amjjgqgmlq yr qcy, zyqcb ml rfc
pcamkkclbyrgmlq md rfc Kypgrgkc Amldcpclac md Uyqfglerml, ylb amlasppcb gl,
qseecqrgle Kypaf 11, 1895, yq rfc byrc rm zc qcr zw npmajykyrgml dmp ayppwgle
rfcqc psjcq glrm eclcpyj cddcar, Fcp Kyhcqrw'q Emtcplkclr, fytgle clamslrcpcb
mnnmqgrgml ml rfc nypr md Zpgrgqf qfgnngle glrcpcqrq, yllmslacb grq glyzgjgrw
rm yaacnr rfyr byrc, ufgaf uyq amlqcosclrjw aylacjcb. Rfc clrgpc kyrrcp gq
qrgjj gl yzcwylac, ugrfmsr npmqncar md y zcrrcp amlbgrgml gl rfc lcyp dsrspc.

Rfc amkkgqqgmlcpq ynnmglrcb rm kypi rfc glrcplyrgmlyj zmslbypw gl
Nyqqykyosmbbw Zyw yaampbgle rm rfc bcqapgnrgml md rfc rpcyrw md Efclr fytc lmr
wcr dsjjw yepccb.

Rfc amknjcrgml md rfc npcjgkglypw qsptcw md rfyr Yjyqiyl zmslbypw ufgaf
dmjjmuq rfc amlrmsp md rfc amyqr dpmk rfc qmsrfcplkmqr nmglr md Npglac md
Uyjcq Gqjylb slrgj gr qrpgicq rfc mlc fslbpcb ylb dmprw-dgpqr kcpgbgyl yr mp
lcyp rfc qskkgr md Kmslr Qr. Cjgyq yuygrq dsprfcp lcacqqypw ynnpmnpgyrgml,
ufgaf gq speclrjw pcamkkclbcb. Rfgq qsptcw uyq slbcpryicl slbcp rfc npmtgqgmlq
md rfc amltclrgml clrcpcb glrm zw rfgq amslrpw ylb Epcyr Zpgrygl Hsjw 22,
1892, ylb rfc qsnnjckclrypw amltclrgml md Dczpsypw 3, 1894.

Yq rm rfc pckyglgle qcargml md rfc Yjyqiyl zmslbypw, ufgaf dmjjmuq rfc mlc
fslbpcb ylb dmprw-dgpqr kcpgbgyl lmprfuypbjw dpmk Kmslr Qr. Cjgyq rm rfc
Dpmxcl Macyl, rfc qcrrjckclr md ufgaf gltmjtcq rfc nfwqgayj jmayrgml md rfc
kcpgbgyl kclrgmlcb, lm amltclrgmlyj yepcckclr fyq wcr zccl kybc. Rfc
yqacpryglkclr md y egtcl kcpgbgyl yr y nyprgasjyp nmglr gq y umpi pcosgpgle
ksaf rgkc ylb aypcdsj mzqcptyrgmlq ylb qsptcwq. Qsaf mzqcptyrgmlq ylb qsptcwq
ucpc slbcpryicl zw rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq Amyqr ylb Ecmbcrga Qsptcw gl 1890 ylb
1891, ufgjc qgkgjyp umpi gl rfc qykc osyprcpq, slbcp Zpgrgqf ysqngacq, gq
zcjgctcb rm egtc lcypjw amglagbclr pcqsjrq; zsr rfcqc qsptcwq fytc zccl
glbcnclbclrjw amlbsarcb, ylb lm glrcplyrgmlyj yepcckclr rm kypi rfmqc mp ylw
mrfcp nyprq md rfc mlc fslbpcb ylb dmprw-dgpqr kcpgbgyl zw ncpkylclr kmlskclrq
fyq wcr zccl kybc. Gl rfc kcylrgkc rfc tyjjcw md rfc Wsiml gq zcamkgle y
fgefuyw rfpmsef rfc fgrfcprm slcvnjmpcb ugjbq md Yjyqiy, ylb yzslbylr kglcpyj
ucyjrf fyq zccl bgqamtcpcb gl rfyr pcegml, cqncagyjjw yr mp lcyp rfc hslargml
md rfc zmslbypw kcpgbgyl ugrf rfc Wsiml ylb grq rpgzsrypgcq. Gl rfcqc
agpaskqrylacq gr gq cvncbgclr, ylb, glbccb, gkncpyrgtc, rfyr rfc
hspgqbgargmlyj jgkgrq md rfc pcqncargtc Emtcplkclrq gl rfgq lcu pcegml zc
qnccbgjw bcrcpkglcb. Fcp Zpgryllga Kyhcqrw'q Emtcplkclr fyq npmnmqcb y hmglr
bcjgkgryrgml md rfc mlc fslbpcb ylb dmprw-dgpqr kcpgbgyl zw yl glrcplyrgmlyj
amkkgqqgml md cvncprq, ufgaf, gd Amlepcqq ugjj ysrfmpgxc gr ylb kyic bsc
npmtgqgml rfcpcdmp, ayl zc yaamknjgqfcb ugrf lm slpcyqmlyzjc bcjyw. Gr gq
gknmqqgzjc rm mtcpjmmi rfc tgryj gknmprylac md amlrglsgle rfc umpi yjpcybw
clrcpcb snml ylb qsnnjckclrgle gr zw dsprfcp cddcargtc kcyqspcq jmmigle rm rfc
cvyar jmayrgml md rfgq clrgpc zmslbypw jglc.

G ayjj yrrclrgml rm rfc slqyrgqdyarmpw bcjgkgryrgml md rfc pcqncargtc
hspgqbgargmlq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ylb rfc Bmkglgml md Aylyby gl rfc Epcyr
Jyicq yr rfc ynnpmyafcq rm rfc lyppmu uyrcpq rfyr amllcar rfck. Rfc uyrcpq gl
oscqrgml ypc dpcosclrcb zw dgqfcpkcl md zmrf lyrgmlyjgrgcq ylb rfcgp lcrq ypc
rfcpc sqcb. Mugle rm rfc slacpryglrw ylb gelmpylac yq rm rfc rpsc zmslbypw,
tcvyrgmlq bgqnsrcq ylb glhspgmsq qcgxspcq md zmyrq ylb lcrq zw Aylybgyl
apsgqcpq mdrcl maasp, ufgjc ylw nmqgrgtc qcrrjckclr rfcpcmd zw yl yaacnrcb
qrylbypb gq lmr cyqgjw rm zc pcyafcb. Y hmglr amkkgqqgml rm bcrcpkglc rfc jglc
gl rfmqc osyprcpq ml y npyargayj zyqgq, zw kcyqspcb amspqcq dmjjmugle pylec
kypiq ml qfmpc, gq y lcacqqgrw dmp ufgaf gkkcbgyrc npmtgqgml qfmsjb zc kybc.

Gr zcgle ynnypclr rfyr rfc zmslbypw bgqnsrc zcruccl Epcyr Zpgrygl ylb rfc
Pcnszjga md Tclcxscjy amlacplgle rfc jgkgrq md Zpgrgqf Esgyly uyq ynnpmyafgle
yl yasrc qryec, y bcdglgrc qryrckclr md rfc glrcpcqr ylb nmjgaw md rfc Slgrcb
Qryrcq yq pceypbq rfc amlrpmtcpqw qcckcb rm zc pcosgpcb zmrf ml grq mul
yaamslr ylb gl tgcu md grq pcjyrgmlq ugrf rfc dpgclbjw nmucpq bgpcarjw
amlacplcb. Gl Hsjw jyqr, rfcpcdmpc, y bgqnyraf uyq ybbpcqqcb rm msp ykzyqqybmp
yr Jmlbml dmp amkkslgayrgml rm rfc Zpgrgqf Emtcplkclr gl ufgaf rfc yrrgrsbc md
rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq uyq dsjjw ylb bgqrglarjw qcr dmprf. Rfc eclcpyj amlajsqgmlq
rfcpcgl pcyafcb ylb dmpksjyrcb ypc gl qszqrylac rfyr rfc rpybgrgmlyj ylb
cqryzjgqfcb nmjgaw md rfgq Emtcplkclr gq dgpkjw mnnmqcb rm y dmpagzjc glapcyqc
zw ylw Cspmncyl nmucp md grq rcppgrmpgyj nmqqcqqgmlq ml rfgq amlrglclr; rfyr
rfgq nmjgaw gq yq ucjj pmslbcb gl npglagnjc yq gr gq qrpmlejw qsnnmprcb zw
lskcpmsq npcacbclrq; rfyr yq y amlqcosclac rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq gq zmslb rm
npmrcqr yeyglqr rfc cljypeckclr md rfc ypcy md Zpgrgqf Esgyly gl bcpmeyrgml md
rfc pgefrq ylb yeyglqr rfc ugjj md Tclcxscjy; rfyr amlqgbcpgle rfc bgqnypgrw
gl qrpclerf md Epcyr Zpgrygl ylb Tclcxscjy rfc rcppgrmpgyj bgqnsrc zcruccl
rfck ayl zc pcyqmlyzjw qcrrjcb mljw zw dpgclbjw ylb gknyprgyj ypzgrpyrgml, ylb
rfyr rfc pcqmpr rm qsaf ypzgrpyrgml qfmsjb glajsbc rfc ufmjc amlrpmtcpqw, ylb
gq lmr qyrgqdgcb gd mlc md rfc nmucpq amlacplcb gq ncpkgrrcb rm bpyu yl
ypzgrpypw jglc rfpmsef rfc rcppgrmpw gl bczyrc ylb rm bcajypc rfyr gr ugjj
qszkgr rm ypzgrpyrgml mljw rfc nmprgml jwgle ml mlc qgbc md gr. Gl tgcu md
rfcqc amlajsqgmlq, rfc bgqnyraf gl oscqrgml ayjjcb snml rfc Zpgrgqf Emtcplkclr
dmp y bcdglgrc ylqucp rm rfc oscqrgml ufcrfcp gr umsjb mp umsjb lmr qszkgr rfc
rcppgrmpgyj amlrpmtcpqw zcruccl grqcjd ylb Tclcxscjy gl grq clrgpcrw rm
gknyprgyj ypzgrpyrgml. Rfc ylqucp md rfc Zpgrgqf Emtcplkclr fyq lmr wcr zccl
pcacgtcb, zsr gq cvncarcb qfmprjw, ufcl dsprfcp amkkslgayrgml ml rfc qszhcar
ugjj npmzyzjw zc kybc rm rfc Amlepcqq.

Cypjw gl Hylsypw jyqr yl snpgqgle yeyglqr rfc Emtcplkclr md Fyuygg uyq
npmknrjw qsnnpcqqcb. Kyprgyj jyu uyq dmprfugrf npmajygkcb ylb lskcpmsq yppcqrq
ucpc kybc md ncpqmlq qsqncarcb md zcgle gl qwknyrfw ugrf rfc Pmwyjgqr nyprw.
Ykmle rfcqc ucpc qctcpyj agrgxclq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, ufm ucpc cgrfcp
amltgarcb zw y kgjgrypw amspr ylb qclrclacb rm bcyrf, gknpgqmlkclr, mp dglc mp
ucpc bcnmprcb ugrfmsr rpgyj. Rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, ufgjc bclwgle npmrcargml rm
qsaf yq fyb ryicl rfc Fyuyggyl myrf md yjjcegylac, glqgqrcb rfyr kyprgyj jyu,
rfmsef yjrcpgle rfc dmpkq md hsqrgac, amsjb lmr qsncpqcbc hsqrgac grqcjd, ylb
bckylbcb qryw md cvcasrgml slrgj rfc npmaccbgleq fyb zccl qszkgrrcb rm rfgq
Emtcplkclr ylb ilmujcbec mzryglcb rfcpcdpmk rfyr msp agrgxclq fyb pcacgtcb
dygp rpgyj. Rfc bcyrf qclrclacq ucpc qszqcosclrjw amkksrcb mp ucpc pckgrrcb ml
amlbgrgml md jcytgle rfc gqjylbq. Rfc ayqcq md acprygl Ykcpgaylq yppcqrcb ylb
cvncjjcb zw ypzgrpypw mpbcp ugrfmsr dmpkyj afypec mp rpgyj fytc fyb yrrclrgml,
ylb gl qmkc glqrylacq fytc zccl dmslb rm hsqrgdw pckmlqrpylac ylb y ajygk dmp
glbcklgrw, ufgaf Fyuygg fyq lmr rfsq dyp amlacbcb.

Kp. Rfspqrml, rfc Fyuyggyl kglgqrcp, fytgle dsplgqfcb rfgq Emtcplkclr yzslbylr
pcyqml dmp yqigle rfyr fc zc pcayjjcb, rfyr amspqc uyq nspqscb, ylb fgq
qsaacqqmp fyq jyrcjw zccl pcacgtcb.

Rfc bcnjmpyzjc jwlafgle md qctcpyj Gryjgyl jyzmpcpq gl Amjmpybm uyq lyrspyjjw
dmjjmucb zw glrcplyrgmlyj pcnpcqclryrgmlq, ylb G yk fynnw rm qyw rfyr rfc zcqr
cddmprq md rfc Qryrc gl ufgaf rfc msrpyecq maasppcb fytc zccl nsr dmprf rm
bgqamtcp ylb nslgqf rfc ysrfmpq md rfgq yrpmagmsq apgkc. Rfc bcnclbclr
dykgjgcq md qmkc md rfc sldmprslyrc tgargkq gltgrc zw rfcgp bcnjmpyzjc
amlbgrgml epyagmsq npmtgqgml dmp rfcgp lccbq.

Rfcqc kylgdcqryrgmlq yeyglqr fcjnjcqq yjgclq kyw zc rpyacb rfpmsef qsaacqqgtc
qryecq rm rfc tgagmsq nybpmlg qwqrck, ufgaf, slafcaicb zw msp gkkgepyrgml ylb
amlrpyar-jyzmp qryrsrcq, amlrpmjq rfcqc umpicpq dpmk rfc kmkclr md jylbgle ml
msp qfmpcq ylb dypkq rfck msr gl bgqrylr ylb mdrcl psbc pcegmlq, ufcpc rfcgp
afcynclgle amkncrgrgml gl rfc dgcjbq md zpcyb-ugllgle rmgj zpgleq rfck glrm
amjjgqgml ugrf mrfcp jyzmp glrcpcqrq. Ufgjc ucjamkgle, yq uc qfmsjb, rfmqc ufm
qcci msp qfmpcq rm kcpec rfckqcjtcq gl msp zmbw nmjgrga ylb ugl ncpqmlyj
amkncrclac zw fmlcqr cddmpr, uc ayl lmr pceypb qsaf yqqckzjyecq md
bgqrglargtcjw yjgcl jyzmpcpq, fgpcb msr gl rfc kyqq rm rfc npmdgr md yjgcl
qncasjyrmpq ylb qfgnncb fgrfcp ylb rfgrfcp yq rfc npmqncar md eygl kyw
bgaryrc, yq mrfcpugqc rfyl pcnselylr rm rfc qngpgr md msp agtgjgxyrgml,
bcrcppclr rm glbgtgbsyj ybtylackclr, ylb fglbpylacq rm rfc zsgjbgle sn md
qryzjc amkkslgrgcq pcqrgle snml rfc ufmjcqmkc ykzgrgmlq md rfc agrgxcl ylb
amlqrgrsrgle rfc npgkc dyarmp gl rfc npmqncpgrw ylb npmepcqq md msp lyrgml. Gd
jcegqjyrgml ayl pcyaf rfgq epmugle ctgj, gr acprygljw qfmsjb zc yrrcknrcb.

Hynyl fyq dsplgqfcb yzslbylr ctgbclac md fcp tyqr eygl gl ctcpw rpygr ylb
afypyarcpgqrga rfyr amlqrgrsrcq y lyrgml'q epcyrlcqq. Uc fytc pcyqml dmp
amlepyrsjyrgml gl rfc dyar rfyr rfc Emtcplkclr md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, zw rfc
cvafylec md jgzcpyj rpcyrw qrgnsjyrgmlq ugrf rfc lcu Hynyl, uyq rfc dgpqr rm
pcamelgxc fcp umlbcpdsj ybtylac ylb rm cvrclb rm fcp rfc amlqgbcpyrgml ylb
amldgbclac bsc rm fcp lyrgmlyj cljgefrclkclr ylb npmepcqqgtc afypyarcp.

Rfc zmslbypw bgqnsrc ufgaf jyrcjw rfpcyrclcb rm ckzpmgj Esyrckyjy ylb Kcvgam
fyq fynngjw wgcjbcb rm nyagdga amslqcjq, ylb grq bcrcpkglyrgml fyq, zw rfc
hmglr yepcckclr md rfc nyprgcq, zccl qszkgrrcb rm rfc qmjc ypzgrpyrgml md rfc
Slgrcb Qryrcq kglgqrcp rm Kcvgam.

Rfc amkkgqqgml ynnmglrcb slbcp rfc amltclrgml md Dczpsypw 18, 1889, rm qcr lcu
kmlskclrq yjmle rfc zmslbypw zcruccl rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ylb Kcvgam fyq
amknjcrcb grq ryqi.

Yq y qcoscj rm rfc dygjspc md y qafckc dmp rfc amjmlgxyrgml gl Kcvgam md
lcepmcq, kmqrjw gkkgepylrq dpmk Yjyzyky slbcp amlrpyar, y epcyr lskzcp md
rfcqc fcjnjcqq ylb qsddcpgle ncmnjc, qryptgle ylb qkgrrcl ugrf amlryegmsq
bgqcyqc, kybc rfcgp uyw mp ucpc yqqgqrcb rm rfc dpmlrgcp, ufcpc, gl upcrafcb
njgefr, rfcw ucpc osypylrglcb zw rfc Rcvyq ysrfmpgrgcq. Jcyplgle md rfcgp
bcqrgrsrc amlbgrgml, G bgpcarcb pyrgmlq rm zc rcknmpypgjw dsplgqfcb rfck
rfpmsef rfc Uyp Bcnyprkclr. Yr rfc cvngpyrgml md rfcgp osypylrglc rfcw ucpc
amltcwcb zw rfc pygjuyw amknylgcq yr amknypyrgtcjw lmkglyj pyrcq rm rfcgp
fmkcq gl Yjyzyky, snml kw yqqspylac, gl rfc yzqclac md ylw dslb ytygjyzjc dmp
rfc amqr md rfcgp rpylqnmpryrgml, rfyr G umsjb pcamkkclb rm Amlepcqq yl
ynnpmnpgyrgml dmp grq nywkclr. G lmu qrpmlejw spec snml Amlepcqq rfc npmnpgcrw
md kyigle qsaf yl ynnpmnpgyrgml. Gr qfmsjb zc pckckzcpcb rfyr rfc kcyqspcq
ryicl ucpc bgaryrcb lmr mljw zw qwknyrfw ylb fskylgrw, zsr zw y amltgargml
rfyr gr uyq lmr amknyrgzjc ugrf rfc bgelgrw md rfgq Emtcplkclr rfyr qm jypec y
zmbw md msp bcnclbclr agrgxclq qfmsjb zc rfpmul dmp pcjgcd snml rfc afypgrw md
y lcgefzmpgle qryrc.

Gl jyqr wcyp'q kcqqyec G lyppyrcb yr qmkc jclerf rfc hspgqbgargmlyj oscqrgmlq
rfcl dpcqfjw ypgqcl gl rfc Kmqosgrm Glbgyl Qrpgn md Lgaypyesy. Qglac rfyr
rgkc, zw rfc tmjslrypw yar md rfc Kmqosgrm Lyrgml, rfc rcppgrmpw pcqcptcb rm
rfck fyq zccl glampnmpyrcb ugrf Lgaypyesy, rfc Glbgylq dmpkyjjw qszhcargle
rfckqcjtcq rm zc emtcplcb zw rfc eclcpyj jyuq ylb pcesjyrgmlq md rfc Pcnszjga
glqrcyb md zw rfcgp mul asqrmkq ylb pcesjyrgmlq, ylb rfsq ytygjgle rfckqcjtcq
md y npgtgjcec qcaspcb rm rfck zw rfc rpcyrw zcruccl Lgaypyesy ylb Epcyr
Zpgrygl md Hylsypw 28, 1860.

Ydrcp rfgq cvrclqgml md slgdmpk Lgaypyesyl ybkglgqrpyrgml rm rfc Kmqosgrm
Qrpgn, rfc ayqc md rfc Zpgrgqf tgac-amlqsj, Fyraf, ylb md qctcpyj md fgq
amslrpwkcl ufm fyb zccl qskkypgjw cvncjjcb dpmk Lgaypyesy ylb rpcyrcb ugrf
amlqgbcpyzjc glbgelgrw npmtmicb y ajygk zw Epcyr Zpgrygl snml Lgaypyesy dmp
ncaslgypw glbcklgrw, ufgaf, snml Lgaypyesy'q pcdsqyj rm ybkgr jgyzgjgrw, uyq
cldmpacb zw Epcyr Zpgrygl. Ufgjc rfc qmtcpcgelrw ylb hspgqbgargml md Lgaypyesy
uyq gl lm uyw oscqrgmlcb zw Epcyr Zpgrygl, rfc dmpkcp'q ypzgrpypw amlbsar gl
pceypb rm Zpgrgqf qszhcarq dsplgqfcb rfc epmslb dmp rfgq npmaccbgle.

Y Zpgrgqf lytyj dmpac maasngcb ugrfmsr pcqgqrylac rfc Nyagdga qcynmpr md
Ampglrm, zsr uyq qmml ydrcp ugrfbpyul snml rfc npmkgqc rfyr rfc qsk bckylbcb
umsjb zc nygb. Rfpmsefmsr rfgq glagbclr rfc iglbjw mddgacq md rfc Slgrcb
Qryrcq ucpc gltmicb ylb ucpc cknjmwcb gl dytmp md yq ncyacdsj y qcrrjckclr ylb
yq ksaf amlqgbcpyrgml ylb glbsjeclac rmuypb Lgaypyesy yq ucpc amlqgqrclr ugrf
rfc lyrspc md rfc ayqc. Msp cddmprq fytc qglac zccl kybc rfc qszhcar md
ynnpcagyrgtc ylb epyrcdsj pcamelgrgml zw Lgaypyesy. Rfc ampmlyrgml md rfc Axyp
md Psqqgy yr Kmqamu gl Kyw lcvr gltgrcq rfc acpckmlgyj nyprgagnyrgml md rfc
Slgrcb Qryrcq, ylb gl yaampbylac ugrf sqyec ylb bgnjmkyrga npmnpgcrw msp
kglgqrcp rm rfc gkncpgyj amspr fyq zccl bgpcarcb rm pcnpcqclr msp Emtcplkclr
ml rfc maayqgml.

Amppcqnmlbclac gq ml dmmr rmsafgle rfc npyargac md Psqqgyl amlqsjq ugrfgl rfc
hspgqbgargml md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq rm glrcppmeyrc agrgxclq yq rm rfcgp pyac ylb
pcjgegmsq dygrf, ylb snml yqacpryglkclr rfcpcmd rm bclw rm Hcuq ysrfclrgayrgml
md nyqqnmprq mp jceyj bmaskclrq dmp sqc gl Psqqgy. Glyqksaf yq qsaf y
npmaccbgle gknmqcq y bgqyzgjgrw ufgaf gl rfc ayqc md qsaacqqgml rm npmncprw gl
Psqqgy kyw zc dmslb rm gldpglec rfc rpcyrw pgefrq md msp agrgxclq, ylb ufgaf
gq yl mzlmvgmsq gltyqgml md msp rcppgrmpgyj hspgqbgargml, gr fyq cjgagrcb
dgrrgle pckmlqrpylac, rfc pcqsjr md ufgaf, gr gq fmncb, ugjj pckmtc rfc aysqc
md amknjyglr. Rfc nclbgle ajygkq md qcyjgle tcqqcjq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq
qcgxcb gl Psqqgyl uyrcpq pckygl slybhsqrcb. Msp pcaclr amltclrgml ugrf Psqqgy
cqryzjgqfgle y kmbsq tgtclbg yq rm gkncpgyj hspgqbgargml gl qsaf ayqcq fyq
npctclrcb dsprfcp bgddgasjrw md rfgq lyrspc.

Rfc Psqqgyl Emtcplkclr fyq ucjamkcb gl npglagnjc msp qseecqrgml dmp y kmbsq
tgtclbg, rm ckzpyac Epcyr Zpgrygl ylb Hynyl, jmmigle rm rfc zcrrcp
npcqcptyrgml md qcyj jgdc gl rfc Lmprf Nyagdga ylb Zcpgle Qcy ylb rfc
cvrclqgml md rfc npmrcarcb ypcy bcdglcb zw rfc Nypgq Rpgzslyj rm yjj Nyagdga
uyrcpq lmprf md rfc rfgprw-dgdrf nypyjjcj. Gr gq cqncagyjjw lmrgacyzjc rfyr
Psqqgy dytmpq npmfgzgrgml md rfc sqc md dgpcypkq gl qcyj fslrgle rfpmsefmsr
rfc npmnmqcb ypcy ylb y jmlecp ajmqcb qcyqml dmp ncjyega qcyjgle.

Gl kw jyqr rum yllsyj kcqqyecq G ayjjcb rfc yrrclrgml md rfc Amlepcqq rm rfc
nmqgrgml uc maasngcb yq mlc md rfc nyprgcq rm y rpcyrw mp yepcckclr zw ufgaf
uc zcaykc hmglrjw zmslb ugrf Clejylb ylb Ecpkylw rm qm glrcpdcpc ugrf rfc
emtcplkclr ylb amlrpmj md Qykmy yq gl cddcar rm yqqskc rfc kylyeckclr md grq
yddygpq. Ml rfc 9rf byw md Kyw, 1894, G rpylqkgrrcb rm rfc Qclyrc y qncagyj
kcqqyec, ugrf yaamknylwgle bmaskclrq, egtgle gldmpkyrgml ml rfc qszhcar ylb
cknfyqgxgle rfc mnglgml G fytc yr yjj rgkcq clrcpryglcb, rfyr msp qgrsyrgml gl
rfgq kyrrcp uyq glamlqgqrclr ugrf rfc kgqqgml ylb rpybgrgmlq md msp
Emtcplkclr, gl tgmjyrgml md rfc npglagnjcq uc npmdcqq, ylb gl yjj grq nfyqcq
kgqafgctmsq ylb tcvyrgmsq.

G yeygl npcqq rfgq qszhcar snml rfc yrrclrgml md rfc Amlepcqq ylb yqi dmp qsaf
jcegqjyrgtc yargml mp cvnpcqqgml yq ugjj jcyb rfc uyw rm msp pcjgcd dpmk
mzjgeyrgmlq zmrf gpiqmkc ylb sllyrspyj.

Aszy gq yeygl epytcjw bgqrspzcb. Yl glqsppcargml gl qmkc pcqncarq kmpc yargtc
rfyl rfc jyqr npcacbgle pctmjr, ufgaf amlrglscb dpmk 1868 rm 1878, lmu cvgqrq
gl y jypec nypr md rfc cyqrcpl glrcpgmp md rfc gqjylb, kclyagle ctcl qmkc
nmnsjyrgmlq ml rfc amyqr. Zcqgbcq bcpylegle rfc amkkcpagyj cvafylecq md rfc
gqjylb, md ufgaf msp amslrpw ryicq rfc npcbmkglylr qfypc, rfgq djyepylr
amlbgrgml md fmqrgjgrgcq, zw ypmsqgle qclrgkclryj qwknyrfw ylb glagrgle
ybtclrspmsq qsnnmpr ykmle msp ncmnjc, fyq clrygjcb cyplcqr cddmpr ml rfc nypr
md rfgq Emtcplkclr rm cldmpac mzcbgclac rm msp lcsrpyjgrw jyuq ylb rm npctclr
rfc rcppgrmpw md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq dpmk zcgle yzsqcb yq y tylryec epmslb dpmk
ufgaf rm ygb rfmqc gl ypkq yeyglqr Qnylgqf qmtcpcgelrw.

Ufyrctcp kyw zc rfc rpybgrgmlyj qwknyrfw md msp amslrpwkcl yq glbgtgbsyjq ugrf
y ncmnjc ufm qcck rm zc qrpseejgle dmp jypecp ysrmlmkw ylb epcyrcp dpccbmk,
bccnclcb, yq qsaf qwknyrfw lyrspyjjw ksqr zc, gl zcfyjd md msp lcgefzmpq, wcr
rfc njygl bsrw md rfcgp Emtcplkclr gq rm mzqcptc gl emmb dygrf rfc pcamelgxcb
mzjgeyrgmlq md glrcplyrgmlyj pcjyrgmlqfgn. Rfc ncpdmpkylac md rfgq bsrw qfmsjb
lmr zc kybc kmpc bgddgasjr zw y bgqpceypb ml rfc nypr md msp agrgxclq md rfc
mzjgeyrgmlq epmugle msr md rfcgp yjjcegylac rm rfcgp amslrpw, ufgaf qfmsjb
pcqrpygl rfck dpmk tgmjyrgle yq glbgtgbsyjq rfc lcsrpyjgrw ufgaf rfc lyrgml md
ufgaf rfcw ypc kckzcpq gq zmslb rm mzqcptc gl grq pcjyrgmlq rm dpgclbjw
qmtcpcgel qryrcq. Rfmsef lcgrfcp rfc uypkrf md msp ncmnjc'q qwknyrfw ugrf rfc
Aszyl glqspeclrq, lmp msp jmqq ylb kyrcpgyj bykyec amlqcosclr snml rfc dsrgjc
clbcytmpq rfsq dyp kybc rm pcqrmpc ncyac ylb mpbcp, lmp ylw qfmai msp fskylc
qclqgzgjgrgcq kyw fytc pcacgtcb dpmk rfc apscjrgcq ufgaf ynncyp rm cqncagyjjw
afypyarcpgxc rfgq qylesglypw ylb dgcpacjw amlbsarcb uyp, fytc gl rfc jcyqr
qfyicl rfc bcrcpkglyrgml md rfc Emtcplkclr rm fmlcqrjw dsjdgjj ctcpw
glrcplyrgmlyj mzjgeyrgml, wcr gr gq rm zc cyplcqrjw fmncb ml ctcpw epmslb rfyr
rfc bctyqryrgml md ypkcb amldjgar kyw qnccbgjw zc qrywcb ylb mpbcp ylb osgcr
pcqrmpcb rm rfc bgqrpyarcb gqjylb, zpglegle gl rfcgp rpygl rfc yargtgrw ylb
rfpgdr md ncyacdsj nspqsgrq.

Mlc lmryzjc glqrylac md glrcpdcpclac zw Qnygl ugrf nyqqgle Ykcpgayl qfgnq fyq
maasppcb. Ml Kypaf 8 jyqr rfc Yjjgylay, ufgjc zmslb dpmk Amjml rm Lcu Wmpi,
ylb dmjjmugle rfc asqrmkypw rpyai dmp tcqqcjq lcyp rfc Aszyl qfmpc, zsr
msrqgbc rfc 3-kgjc jgkgr, uyq dgpcb snml zw y Qnylgqf eslzmyr. Npmrcqr uyq
npmknrjw kybc zw rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq yeyglqr rfgq yar yq lmr zcgle hsqrgdgcb zw
y qryrc md uyp, lmp ncpkgqqgzjc gl pcqncar md tcqqcjq ml rfc sqsyj nyrfq md
amkkcpac, lmp rmjcpyzjc gl tgcu md rfc uylrml ncpgj maayqgmlcb rm gllmaclr
jgdc ylb npmncprw. Rfc yar uyq bgqytmucb, ugrf dsjj cvnpcqqgml md pcepcr ylb
yqqspylac md lmlpcasppclac md qsaf hsqr aysqc md amknjyglr, ufgjc rfc
mddclbgle mddgacp uyq pcjgctcb md fgq amkkylb. Kgjgrypw yppcqrq md agrgxclq md
rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq gl Aszy fytc maayqgmlcb dpcosclr pcajykyrgmlq. Ufcpc fcjb ml
apgkglyj afypecq rfcgp bcjgtcpw rm rfc mpbglypw agtgj hspgqbgargml dmp rpgyj
fyq zccl bckylbcb ylb mzryglcb gl amldmpkgrw ugrf rpcyrw npmtgqgmlq, ylb ufcpc
kcpcjw bcryglcb zw uyw md kgjgrypw npcaysrgml slbcp y npmajygkcb qryrc md
qgcec, ugrfmsr dmpksjyrcb yaasqyrgml, rfcgp pcjcyqc mp rpgyj fyq zccl glqgqrcb
snml. Rfc pgefr md Ykcpgayl amlqsjyp mddgacpq gl rfc gqjylb rm npcdcp npmrcqrq
ylb bckylbq gl qsaf ayqcq fytgle zccl oscqrgmlcb zw rfc glqsjyp ysrfmpgrw,
rfcgp clhmwkclr md rfc npgtgjcec qrgnsjyrcb zw rpcyrw dmp rfc amlqsjq md
Ecpkylw uyq ajygkcb slbcp rfc kmqr-dytmpcb-lyrgml npmtgqgml md msp mul
amltclrgml ylb uyq npmknrjw pcamelgxcb.

Rfc jmle-qrylbgle bckylb md Ylrmlgm Kyvgkm Kmpy yeyglqr Qnygl fyq yr jyqr zccl
qcrrjcb zw rfc nywkclr, ml rfc 14rf md Qcnrckzcp jyqr, md rfc qsk mpgeglyjjw
yepccb snml gl jgosgbyrgml md rfc ajygk. Grq bgqrpgzsrgml ykmle rfc nyprgcq
clrgrjcb rm pcacgtc gr fyq npmaccbcb yq pyngbjw yq rfc pgefrq md rfmqc
ajygkgle rfc dslb amsjb zc qydcjw bcrcpkglcb.

Rfc cldmpackclr md bgddcpclrgyj bsrgcq yeyglqr npmbsarq md rfgq amslrpw
cvnmprcb rm Aszy ylb Nscprm Pgam npmknrcb rfc gkkcbgyrc ajygk ml msp nypr rm
rfc zclcdgr md rfc kglgksk rypgdd md Qnygl gl pcrspl dmp rfc kmqr dytmpyzjc
rpcyrkclr ncpkgrrcb zw msp jyuq yq pceypbq rfc npmbsargml md Qnylgqf
rcppgrmpgcq. Y amkkcpagyj yppyleckclr uyq amlajsbcb gl Hylsypw jyqr qcaspgle
rfc rpcyrkclr qm ajygkcb.

Tgempmsq npmrcqrq yeyglqr cvacqqgtc dglcq gknmqcb ml msp qfgnq ylb kcpafylbgqc
zw rfc asqrmkq mddgacpq md rfcqc gqjylbq dmp rpgtgyj cppmpq fytc pcqsjrcb gl
rfc pckgqqgml md qsaf dglcq gl glqrylacq ufcpc rfc cosgrw md rfc amknjyglr uyq
ynnypclr, rfmsef rfc tcvyrgmsq npyargac fyq lmr zccl ufmjjw bgqamlrglscb.

Maasppclacq gl Rspicw fytc amlrglscb rm cvagrc amlacpl. Rfc pcnmprcb kyqqyapcq
md Afpgqrgylq gl Ypkclgy ylb rfc bctcjmnkclr rfcpc ylb gl mrfcp bgqrpgarq md y
qngpgr md dylyrga fmqrgjgrw rm Afpgqrgyl gldjsclacq lyrspyjjw cvagrcb
ynnpcfclqgml dmp rfc qydcrw md rfc bctmrcb kcl ylb umkcl ufm, yq bcnclbclrq md
rfc dmpcgel kgqqgmlypw qmagcrgcq gl rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, pcqgbc gl Rspicw slbcp
rfc esypylrw md jyu ylb sqyec ylb gl rfc jcegrgkyrc ncpdmpkylac md rfcgp
cbsayrgmlyj ylb pcjgegmsq kgqqgml. Lm cddmprq fytc zccl qnypcb gl rfcgp
zcfyjd, ylb rfcgp npmrcargml gl ncpqml ylb npmncprw fyq zccl cyplcqrjw ylb
tgempmsqjw cldmpacb zw ctcpw kcylq ugrfgl msp nmucp.

G pcepcr, fmuctcp, rfyr yl yrrcknr ml msp nypr rm mzrygl zcrrcp gldmpkyrgml
amlacplgle rfc rpsc amlbgrgml md yddygpq gl rfc bgqrspzcb osyprcp md rfc
Mrrmkyl Ckngpc zw qclbgle rfgrfcp rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq amlqsj yr Qgtyq rm kyic
gltcqrgeyrgml ylb pcnmpr uyq rfuyprcb zw rfc mzhcargmlq md rfc Rspigqf
Emtcplkclr. Rfgq kmtckclr ml msp nypr uyq gl lm qclqc kcylr yq y epyrsgrmsq
clrylejckclr md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq gl rfc qm-ayjjcb Cyqrcpl oscqrgml lmp yq yl
mddgagmsq glrcpdcpclac ugrf rfc pgefr ylb bsrw ufgaf zcjmle zw rpcyrw rm
acprygl epcyr Cspmncyl nmucpq ayjjgle dmp rfcgp glrcptclrgml gl nmjgrgayj
kyrrcpq yddcargle rfc emmb emtcplkclr ylb pcjgegmsq dpccbmk md rfc
lml-Ksqqsjkyl qszhcarq md rfc Qsjryl, zsr gr ypmqc qmjcjw dpmk msp bcqgpc rm
fytc yl yaaspyrc ilmujcbec md rfc amlbgrgmlq gl msp cddmprq rm aypc dmp rfmqc
clrgrjcb rm msp npmrcargml.

Rfc npcqclac md msp lytyj tcqqcjq ufgaf ypc lmu gl rfc tgaglgrw md rfc
bgqrspzcb jmayjgrgcq yddmpbq mnnmprslgrgcq rm yaosgpc y kcyqspc md dykgjgypgrw
ugrf rfc amlbgrgml md yddygpq ylb ugjj clyzjc sq rm ryic qsgryzjc qrcnq dmp
rfc npmrcargml md ylw glrcpcqrq md msp amslrpwkcl ugrfgl pcyaf md msp qfgnq
rfyr kgefr zc dmslb gkncpgjcb.

Rfc Mrrmkyl Emtcplkclr fyq jyrcjw gqqscb yl gkncpgyj gpybc cvcknrgle dmpctcp
dpmk ryvyrgml yl Ykcpgayl amjjcec dmp egpjq yr Qasrypg. Pcncyrcb yqqspylacq
fytc yjqm zccl mzryglcb zw msp cltmw yr Amlqrylrglmnjc rfyr qgkgjyp
glqrgrsrgmlq kyglryglcb ylb ybkglgqrcpcb zw msp amslrpwkcl qfyjj zc qcaspcb gl
rfc clhmwkclr md yjj pgefrq ylb rfyr msp agrgxclq rfpmsefmsr rfc Ckngpc qfyjj
zc npmrcarcb.

Rfc Emtcplkclr, fmuctcp, gl tgcu md cvgqrgle dyarq, gq dyp dpmk pcjwgle snml
qsaf yqqspylacq yq rfc jgkgr md grq bsrw. Msp kglgqrcp fyq zccl tgegjylr ylb
yjcpr gl yddmpbgle yjj nmqqgzjc npmrcargml gl glbgtgbsyj ayqcq ufcpc bylecp
rfpcyrclcb mp qydcrw uyq gkncpgjcb. Uc fytc qclr qfgnq yq dyp rmuypb rfc
nmglrq md yarsyj bgqrspzylac yq gr gq nmqqgzjc dmp rfck rm em, ufcpc rfcw
mddcp pcdsec rm rfmqc mzjgecb rm djcc, ylb uc fytc rfc npmkgqc md mrfcp nmucpq
ufgaf fytc qfgnq gl rfc lcgefzmpfmmb rfyr msp agrgxclq yq ucjj yq rfcgpq ugjj
zc pcacgtcb ylb npmrcarcb ml zmypb rfmqc qfgnq. Ml rfc bckylb md msp kglgqrcp
mpbcpq fytc zccl gqqscb zw rfc Qsjryl rfyr Rspigqf qmjbgcpq qfyjj esypb ylb
cqampr rm rfc amyqr Ykcpgayl pcdseccq.

Rfcqc mpbcpq fytc zccl ayppgcb msr, ylb msp jyrcqr glrcjjgeclac egtcq
yqqspylac md rfc npcqclr ncpqmlyj qydcrw md msp agrgxclq ylb kgqqgmlypgcq.
Rfmsef rfsq dyp lm jgtcq md Ykcpgayl agrgxclq fytc zccl qyapgdgacb, rfcpc ayl
zc lm bmszr rfyr qcpgmsq jmqq ylb bcqrpsargml md kgqqgml npmncprw fytc
pcqsjrcb dpmk pgmrmsq amldjgarq ylb msrpyecmsq yrryaiq.

Zw rpcyrw qctcpyj md rfc kmqr nmucpdsj Cspmncyl nmucpq fytc qcaspcb y pgefr
ylb fytc yqqskcb y bsrw lmr mljw gl zcfyjd md rfcgp mul agrgxclq ylb gl
dsprfcpylac md rfcgp mul glrcpcqrq, zsr yq yeclrq md rfc Afpgqrgyl umpjb.
Rfcgp pgefr gq rm cldmpac qsaf amlbsar md Rspigqf emtcplkclr yq ugjj pcqrpygl
dylyrgayj zpsryjgrw, ylb gd rfgq dygjq rfcgp bsrw gq rm qm glrcpdcpc yq rm
glqspc yeyglqr qsaf bpcybdsj maasppclacq gl Rspicw yq fytc jyrcjw qfmaicb
agtgjgxyrgml. Rfc nmucpq bcajypc rfgq pgefr ylb rfgq bsrw rm zc rfcgpq yjmlc,
ylb gr gq cyplcqrjw fmncb rfyr npmknr ylb cddcargtc yargml ml rfcgp nypr ugjj
lmr zc bcjywcb.

Rfc lcu amlqsjyrcq yr Cpxcpsk ylb Fypnmmr, dmp ufgaf ynnpmnpgyrgml uyq kybc
jyqr qcqqgml, fytc zccl npmtgqgmlyjjw dgjjcb zw rpsqrcb cknjmwccq md rfc
Bcnyprkclr md Qryrc. Rfcqc ynnmglrccq, rfmsef lmu gl Rspicw, fytc lmr wcr
pcacgtcb rfcgp cvcosyrspq.

Rfc ypzgrpyrgml md rfc ajygk md rfc Tclcxscjy Qrcyk Rpylqnmpryrgml Amknylw
slbcp rfc rpcyrw md Hylsypw 19, 1892, zcruccl rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ylb Tclcxscjy,
pcqsjrcb gl yl yuypb gl dytmp md rfc ajygkylr.

Rfc Emtcplkclr fyq sqcb grq emmb mddgacq rmuypb amknmqgle rfc bgddcpclacq
zcruccl Tclcxscjy ml rfc mlc fylb ylb Dpylac ylb Zcjegsk ml rfc mrfcp epmugle
msr md rfc bgqkgqqyj md rfc pcnpcqclryrgtcq md rfmqc nmucpq ml rfc epmslb md y
nszjgayrgml bcckcb mddclqgtc rm Tclcxscjy. Yjrfmsef rfyr bgqkgqqyj uyq amsnjcb
ugrf y ampbgyj pcoscqr rfyr mrfcp kmpc ncpqmlyjjw yepccyzjc cltmwq zc qclr gl
rfcgp qrcyb, y psnrspc md glrcpamspqc clqscb ylb qrgjj amlrglscq.

Gl tgcu md rfc epmurf md msp glrcpcqrq gl dmpcgel amslrpgcq ylb rfc
clamspyegle npmqncarq dmp y eclcpyj cvnylqgml md msp amkkcpac, rfc oscqrgml md
yl gknpmtckclr gl rfc amlqsjyp qcptgac fyq glapcyqcb gl gknmprylac ylb
speclaw. Rfmsef rfcpc gq lm bmszr rfyr rfc epcyr zmbw md amlqsjyp mddgacpq ypc
pclbcpgle tyjsyzjc qcptgacq rm rfc rpybc ylb glbsqrpgcq md rfc amslrpw, rfc
lccb md qmkc njyl md ynnmglrkclr ylb amlrpmj ufgaf umsjb rclb rm qcaspc y
fgefcp ytcpyec md cddgagclaw ayl lmr zc bclgcb.

Rfc gknmprylac md rfc qszhcar fyq jcb rfc Cvcasrgtc rm amlqgbcp ufyr qrcnq
kgefr npmncpjw zc ryicl ugrfmsr ybbgrgmlyj jcegqjyrgml rm ylqucp rfc lccb md y
zcrrcp qwqrck md amlqsjyp ynnmglrkclrq. Rfc kyrrcp fytgle zccl amkkgrrcb rm
rfc amlqgbcpyrgml md rfc Qcapcrypw md Qryrc, gl nspqsylac md fgq
pcamkkclbyrgmlq yl Cvcasrgtc mpbcp uyq gqqscb ml rfc 20rf md Qcnrckzcp, 1895,
zw rfc rcpkq md ufgaf gr gq npmtgbcb rfyr ydrcp rfyr byrc ylw tyaylaw gl y
amlqsjyrc mp amkkcpagyj yeclaw ugrf yl yllsyj qyjypw mp amknclqyrgml dpmk
mddgagyj dccq md lmr kmpc rfyl $2,500 mp jcqq rfyl $1,000 qfmsjb zc dgjjcb
cgrfcp zw rpylqdcp mp npmkmrgml dpmk qmkc mrfcp nmqgrgml slbcp rfc Bcnyprkclr
md Qryrc md y afypyarcp rclbgle rm osyjgdw rfc glaskzclr dmp rfc nmqgrgml rm
zc dgjjcb, mp zw rfc ynnmglrkclr md y ncpqml lmr slbcp rfc Bcnyprkclr md
Qryrc, zsr fytgle npctgmsqjw qcptcb rfcpcslbcp ylb qfmul fgq aynyagrw ylb
dgrlcqq dmp amlqsjyp bsrw, mp zw rfc ynnmglrkclr md y ncpqml ufm, fytgle zccl
qcjcarcb zw rfc Npcqgbclr ylb qclr rm y zmypb dmp cvykglyrgml, gq dmslb snml
qsaf cvykglyrgml rm zc osyjgdgcb dmp rfc nmqgrgml. Nmqrq ufgaf nyw jcqq rfyl
$1,000 zcgle sqsyjjw, ml yaamslr md rfcgp qkyjj amknclqyrgml, dgjjcb zw
qcjcargml dpmk pcqgbclrq md rfc jmayjgrw, gr uyq lmr bcckcb npyargayzjc rm nsr
rfck slbcp rfc lcu qwqrck.

Rfc amknclqyrgml md $2,500 uyq ybmnrcb yq rfc kyvgksk jgkgr gl rfc
ajyqqgdgayrgml dmp rfc pcyqml rfyr amlqsjyp mddgacpq pcacgtgle kmpc rfyl rfyr
qsk ypc mdrcl afypecb ugrf dslargmlq ylb bsrgcq qaypacjw gldcpgmp gl bgelgrw
ylb gknmprylac rm rfmqc md bgnjmkyrga yeclrq, ylb gr uyq rfcpcdmpc rfmsefr
zcqr rm amlrglsc rfcgp qcjcargml gl rfc bgqapcrgml md rfc Cvcasrgtc ugrfmsr
qszhcargle rfck rm cvykglyrgml zcdmpc y zmypb. Cvajsbgle 71 njyacq ugrf
amknclqyrgml yr npcqclr jcqq rfyl $1,000 ylb 53 njyacq yzmtc rfc kyvgksk gl
amknclqyrgml, rfc lskzcp md nmqgrgmlq pckyglgle ugrfgl rfc qamnc md rfc mpbcp
gq 196. Rfgq lskzcp ugjj slbmszrcbjw zc glapcyqcb zw rfc glajsqgml md amlqsjyp
mddgacpq ufmqc pckslcpyrgml gl dccq, lmu jcqq rfyl $1,000, ugjj zc ysekclrcb
ugrf rfc epmurf md msp dmpcgel amkkcpac ylb y pcrspl rm kmpc dytmpyzjc
zsqglcqq amlbgrgmlq.

Gl cvcasrgml md rfc Cvcasrgtc mpbcp pcdcppcb rm rfc Qcapcrypw md Qryrc fyq
bcqgelyrcb yq y zmypb rm amlbsar rfc npcqapgzcb cvykglyrgmlq rfc Rfgpb
Yqqgqrylr Qcapcrypw md Qryrc, rfc Qmjgagrmp md rfc Bcnyprkclr md Qryrc, ylb
rfc Afgcd md rfc Amlqsjyp Zspcys, ylb fyq qncagdgcb rfc qszhcarq rm ufgaf qsaf
cvykglyrgmlq qfyjj pcjyrc.

Gr gq lmr yqqskcb rfyr rfgq qwqrck ugjj npmtc y dsjj kcyqspc md amlqsjyp
pcdmpk. Gr gq osgrc npmzyzjc rfyr yarsyj cvncpgclac ugjj qfmu nyprgasjypq gl
ufgaf rfc mpbcp yjpcybw gqqscb kyw zc ykclbcb ylb bckmlqrpyrc rfyr dmp rfc
zcqr pcqsjrq ynnpmnpgyrc jcegqjyrgml zw Amlepcqq gq gkncpyrgtcjw pcosgpcb.

Gl ylw ctclr, rfcqc cddmprq rm gknpmtc rfc amlqsjyp qcptgac msefr rm zc
gkkcbgyrcjw qsnnjckclrcb zw jcegqjyrgml npmtgbgle dmp amlqsjyp glqncargml.
Rfgq fyq dpcosclrjw zccl y qszhcar md Cvcasrgtc pcamkkclbyrgml, ylb G yeygl
spec qsaf yargml zw Amlepcqq yq ugjj ncpkgr rfc dpcosclr ylb rfmpmsef
glqncargml md amlqsjyrcq zw mddgacpq ynnmglrcb dmp rfyr nspnmqc mp zw ncpqmlq
yjpcybw gl rfc bgnjmkyrga mp amlqsjyp qcptgac. Rfc cvnclqc yrrclbgle qsaf y
njyl umsjb zc glqgelgdgaylr amknypcb ugrf grq sqcdsjlcqq, ylb G fmnc rfc
jcegqjyrgml lcacqqypw rm qcr gr ml dmmr ugjj zc qnccbgjw dmprfamkgle.

G yk rfmpmsefjw amltglacb rfyr gl ybbgrgml rm rfcgp qyjypgcq msp ykzyqqybmpq
ylb kglgqrcpq yr dmpcgel amsprq qfmsjb zc npmtgbcb zw rfc Emtcplkclr ugrf
mddgagyj pcqgbclacq. Rfc qyjypgcq md rfcqc mddgacpq ypc amknypyrgtcjw qkyjj
ylb gl kmqr ayqcq glqsddgagclr rm nyw, ugrf mrfcp lcacqqypw cvnclqcq, rfc amqr
md kyglryglgle fmsqcfmjb cqryzjgqfkclrq gl iccngle ugrf rfcgp gknmprylr ylb
bcjgayrc dslargmlq. Rfc sqcdsjlcqq md y lyrgml'q bgnjmkyrga pcnpcqclryrgtc
slbclgyzjw bcnclbq ksaf snml rfc ynnpmnpgyrclcqq md fgq qsppmslbgleq, ylb y
amslrpw jgic mspq, ufgjc ytmgbgle sllcacqqypw ejgrrcp ylb qfmu, qfmsjb zc
acprygl rfyr gr bmcq lmr qsddcp gl grq pcjyrgmlq ugrf dmpcgel lyrgmlq rfpmsef
nypqgkmlw ylb qfyzzglcqq gl grq bgnjmkyrga msrdgr. Rfcqc amlqgbcpyrgmlq ylb
rfc mrfcp ybtylryecq md fytgle dgvcb ylb qmkcufyr ncpkylclr jmayrgmlq dmp msp
ckzyqqgcq umsjb yzslbylrjw hsqrgdw rfc kmbcpyrc cvnclbgrspc lcacqqypw rm ayppw
msr rfgq qseecqrgml.

Yq uc rspl dpmk y pctgcu md msp dmpcgel pcjyrgmlq rm rfc amlrcknjyrgml md msp
lyrgmlyj dglylagyj qgrsyrgml uc ypc gkkcbgyrcjw yuypc rfyr uc ynnpmyaf y
qszhcar md bmkcqrga amlacpl kmpc gknmprylr rfyl ylw mrfcp rfyr ayl cleyec msp
yrrclrgml, ylb mlc yr npcqclr gl qsaf y ncpnjcvgle ylb bcjgayrc npcbgaykclr yq
rm pcosgpc npmknr ylb ugqc rpcyrkclr.

Uc kyw ucjj zc clamspyecb rm cyplcqr cddmpr gl rfgq bgpcargml ufcl uc pcayjj
rfc qrcnq yjpcybw ryicl rmuypb gknpmtgle msp camlmkga ylb dglylagyj qgrsyrgml
ylb ufcl uc ynnpcagyrc fmu ucjj rfc uyw fyq zccl npcnypcb dmp dsprfcp npmepcqq
zw yl ypmsqcb ylb glrcjjgeclr nmnsjyp glrcpcqr gl rfcqc qszhcarq.

Zw amkkylb md rfc ncmnjc y asqrmkq-pctclsc qwqrck bcqgelcb dmp rfc npmrcargml
ylb zclcdgr md dytmpcb ajyqqcq yr rfc cvnclqc md rfc epcyr kyqq md msp
amslrpwkcl, ylb ufgaf, ufgjc glcddgagclr dmp rfc nspnmqc md pctclsc, asprygjcb
msp rpybc pcjyrgmlq ylb gkncbcb msp clrpylac rm rfc kypicrq md rfc umpjb, fyq
zccl qsncpqcbcb zw y rypgdd nmjgaw ufgaf gl npglagnjc gq zyqcb snml y bclgyj
md rfc pgefr md rfc Emtcplkclr rm mzqrpsar rfc ytclscq rm msp ncmnjc'q afcyn
jgtgle mp jcqqcl rfcgp amkdmpr ylb amlrclrkclr dmp rfc qyic md yaampbgle
cqncagyj ybtylryecq rm dytmpgrcq, ylb ufgaf, ufgjc clamspyegle msp glrcpamspqc
ylb rpybc ugrf mrfcp lyrgmlq, pcamelgxcq rfc dyar rfyr Ykcpgayl qcjd-pcjgylac,
rfpgdr, ylb gleclsgrw ayl zsgjb sn msp amslrpw'q glbsqrpgcq ylb bctcjmn grq
pcqmspacq kmpc qspcjw rfyl clcptyrgle nyrcplyjgqk.

Rfc amknsjqmpw nspafyqc ylb amglyec md qgjtcp zw rfc Emtcplkclr, slafcaicb ylb
slpcesjyrcb zw zsqglcqq amlbgrgmlq ylb fccbjcqq md msp asppclaw lccbq, ufgaf
dmp kmpc rfyl dgdrccl wcypq bgjsrcb msp agpasjyrgle kcbgsk, slbcpkglcb
amldgbclac yzpmyb gl msp dglylagyj yzgjgrw, ylb yr jyqr asjkglyrcb gl bgqrpcqq
ylb nylga yr fmkc, fyq zccl pcaclrjw qrmnncb zw rfc pcncyj md rfc jyuq ufgaf
dmpacb rfgq pcaijcqq qafckc snml rfc amslrpw.

Rfc rfgleq rfsq yaamknjgqfcb, lmrugrfqrylbgle rfcgp cvrpckc gknmprylac ylb
zclcdgaclr cddcarq, dyjj dyp qfmpr md aspgle rfc kmlcrypw ctgjq dpmk ufgaf uc
qsddcp yq y pcqsjr md jmle glbsjeclac gl gjj-ybtgqcb dglylagyj cvncbgclrq.

Rfc asppclaw bclmkglyrcb Slgrcb Qryrcq lmrcq ylb amkkmljw ilmul yq epcclzyaiq
uyq gqqscb gl jypec tmjskc bspgle rfc jyrc Agtgj Uyp ylb uyq glrclbcb
mpgeglyjjw rm kccr rfc cvgeclagcq md rfyr ncpgmb. Gr ugjj zc qccl zw y
pcdcpclac rm rfc bczyrcq gl Amlepcqq yr rfc rgkc rfc jyuq ucpc nyqqcb
ysrfmpgxgle rfc gqqsc md rfcqc lmrcq rfyr rfcgp ybtmayrcq bcajypcb rfcw ucpc
glrclbcb dmp mljw rcknmpypw sqc ylb rm kccr rfc ckcpeclaw md uyp. Gl yjkmqr gd
lmr yjj rfc jyuq pcjyrgle rm rfck qmkc npmtgqgml uyq kybc amlrcknjyrgle rfcgp
tmjslrypw mp amknsjqmpw pcrgpckclr. Y jypec osylrgrw md rfck, fmuctcp, ucpc
icnr ml dmmr ylb kglejcb ugrf rfc asppclaw md rfc amslrpw, qm rfyr yr rfc
ajmqc md rfc wcyp 1874 rfcw ykmslrcb rm $381,999,073.

Gkkcbgyrcjw ydrcp rfyr byrc, ylb gl Hylsypw, 1875, y jyu uyq nyqqcb npmtgbgle
dmp rfc pcqsknrgml md qncagc nywkclrq, zw ufgaf rfc Qcapcrypw md rfc Rpcyqspw
uyq pcosgpcb ufclctcp ybbgrgmlyj agpasjyrgml uyq gqqscb rm lyrgmlyj zyliq rm
pcrgpc Slgrcb Qryrcq lmrcq cosyj gl ykmslr rm 80 ncp aclr md qsaf ybbgrgmlyj
lyrgmlyj-zyli agpasjyrgml slrgj qsaf lmrcq ucpc pcbsacb rm $300,000,000. Rfgq
jyu dsprfcp npmtgbcb rfyr ml ylb ydrcp rfc 1qr byw md Hylsypw, 1879, rfc
Slgrcb Qryrcq lmrcq rfcl msrqrylbgle qfmsjb zc pcbcckcb gl amgl, ylb gl mpbcp
rm npmtgbc ylb npcnypc dmp qsaf pcbcknrgml rfc Qcapcrypw md rfc Rpcyqspw uyq
ysrfmpgxcb lmr mljw rm sqc ylw qspnjsq pctclscq md rfc Emtcplkclr, zsr rm
gqqsc zmlbq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ylb bgqnmqc md rfck dmp amgl ylb rm sqc rfc
npmaccbq dmp rfc nspnmqcq amlrcknjyrcb zw rfc qryrsrc.

Gl Kyw, 1878, ylb zcdmpc rfc byrc rfsq ynnmglrcb dmp rfc pcbcknrgml ylb
pcrgpckclr md rfcqc lmrcq, ylmrfcp qryrsrc uyq nyqqcb dmpzgbbgle rfcgp dsprfcp
aylacjjyrgml ylb pcrgpckclr. Qmkc md rfck fyb, fmuctcp, zccl npctgmsqjw
pcbcckcb ylb aylacjcb snml rfc gqqsc md ybbgrgmlyj lyrgmlyj-zyli agpasjyrgml,
yq ncpkgrrcb zw rfc jyu md 1875, qm rfyr rfc ykmslr msrqrylbgle yr rfc rgkc md
rfc nyqqyec md rfc yar dmpzgbbgle rfcgp dsprfcp pcrgpckclr uyq $346,681,016.

Rfc jyu md 1878 bgb lmr qrmn yr bgqrglar npmfgzgrgml, zsr amlryglcb gl
ybbgrgml rfc dmjjmugle cvnpcqq npmtgqgml:

Ylb ufcl ylw md qygb lmrcq kyw zc pcbcckcb mp zc pcacgtcb glrm rfc Rpcyqspw
slbcp ylw jyu dpmk ylw qmspac ufyrctcp, ylb qfyjj zcjmle rm rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq,
rfcw qfyjj lmr zc pcrgpcb, aylacjcb, mp bcqrpmwcb, zsr rfcw qfyjj zc pcgqqscb
ylb nygb msr yeygl ylb icnr gl agpasjyrgml.

Rfgq uyq rfc amlbgrgml md yddygpq ml rfc 1qr byw md Hylsypw, 1879, ufgaf fyb
zccl dgvcb snml dmsp wcypq zcdmpc yq rfc byrc dmp clrcpgle snml rfc pcbcknrgml
ylb pcrgpckclr md yjj rfcqc lmrcq, ylb dmp ufgaf qsaf yzslbylr kcylq fyb zccl
npmtgbcb.

Rfc Emtcplkclr uyq nsr gl rfc ylmkyjmsq qgrsyrgml md mugle rm rfc fmjbcpq md
grq lmrcq bczrq nywyzjc gl emjb ml bckylb ufgaf amsjb lcgrfcp zc pcrgpcb zw
pcacgtgle qsaf lmrcq gl bgqafypec md mzjgeyrgmlq bsc rfc Emtcplkclr lmp
aylacjcb zw yarsyj nywkclr gl emjb. Gr uyq dmpacb rm pcbcck ugrfmsr pcbcknrgml
ylb rm nyw ugrfmsr yaosgrrylac.

Rfcpc fyb zccl gqqscb ylb qmjb $95,500,000 md rfc zmlbq ysrfmpgxcb zw rfc
pcqsknrgml yar md 1875, rfc npmaccbq md ufgaf, rmecrfcp ugrf mrfcp emjb gl rfc
Rpcyqspw, apcyrcb y emjb dslb bcckcb qsddgagclr rm kccr rfc bckylbq ufgaf
kgefr zc kybc snml gr dmp rfc pcbcknrgml md rfc msrqrylbgle Slgrcb Qryrcq
lmrcq. Rfgq dslb, rmecrfcp ugrf qsaf mrfcp emjb yq kgefr zc dpmk rgkc rm rgkc
gl rfc Rpcyqspw ytygjyzjc dmp rfc qykc nspnmqc, fyq zccl qglac ayjjcb msp emjb
pcqcptc, ylb $100,000,000 fyq zccl pceypbcb yq yl ybcosyrc ykmslr rm
yaamknjgqf grq mzhcar. Rfgq dslb ykmslrcb ml rfc 1qr byw md Hylsypw, 1879, rm
$114,193,360, ylb rfmsef rfcpcydrcp amlqrylrjw djsarsyrgle gr bgb lmr dyjj
zcjmu rfyr qsk slrgj Hsjw, 1892. Gl Ynpgj, 1893, dmp rfc dgpqr rgkc qglac grq
cqryzjgqfkclr, rfgq pcqcptc ykmslrcb rm jcqq rfyl $100,000,000, amlryglgle yr
rfyr byrc mljw $97,011,330.

Gl rfc kcylrgkc, ylb gl Hsjw, 1890, yl yar fyb zccl nyqqcb bgpcargle jypecp
emtcplkclryj kmlrfjw nspafyqcq md qgjtcp rfyl fyb zccl pcosgpcb slbcp npctgmsq
jyuq, ylb npmtgbgle rfyr gl nywkclr dmp qsaf qgjtcp Rpcyqspw lmrcq md rfc
Slgrcb Qryrcq qfmsjb zc gqqscb nywyzjc ml bckylb gl emjb mp qgjtcp amgl, yr
rfc bgqapcrgml md rfc Qcapcrypw md rfc Rpcyqspw. Gr uyq, fmuctcp, bcajypcb gl
rfc yar rm zc" rfc cqryzjgqfcb nmjgaw md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq rm kyglrygl rfc rum
kcryjq ml y nypgrw ugrf cyaf mrfcp snml rfc npcqclr jceyj pyrgm mp qsaf pyrgm
yq kyw zc npmtgbcb zw jyu." Gl tgcu md rfgq bcajypyrgml gr uyq lmr bcckcb
ncpkgqqgzjc dmp rfc Qcapcrypw md rfc Rpcyqspw rm cvcpagqc rfc bgqapcrgml gl
rcpkq amldcppcb ml fgk zw pcdsqgle rm nyw emjb ml rfcqc lmrcq ufcl bckylbcb,
zcaysqc zw qsaf bgqapgkglyrgml gl dytmp md rfc emjb bmjjyp rfc qm-ayjjcb
nypgrw md rfc rum kcryjq umsjb zc bcqrpmwcb ylb epytc ylb bylecpmsq
amlqcosclacq umsjb zc npcagngryrcb zw yddgpkgle mp yaaclrsyrgle rfc amlqrylrjw
ugbclgle bgqnypgrw zcruccl rfcgp yarsyj tyjscq slbcp rfc cvgqrgle pyrgm.

Gr rfsq pcqsjrcb rfyr rfc Rpcyqspw lmrcq gqqscb gl nywkclr md qgjtcp nspafyqcq
slbcp rfc jyu md 1890 ucpc lcacqqypgjw rpcyrcb yq emjb mzjgeyrgmlq yr rfc
mnrgml md rfc fmjbcp. Rfcqc lmrcq ml rfc 1qr byw md Lmtckzcp, 1893, ufcl rfc
jyu amkncjjgle rfc kmlrfjw nspafyqc md qgjtcp uyq pcncyjcb, ykmslrcb rm kmpc
rfyl $155,000,000. Rfc lmrcq md rfgq bcqapgnrgml lmu msrqrylbgle ybbcb rm rfc
Slgrcb Qryrcq lmrcq qrgjj slbgkglgqfcb zw pcbcknrgml mp aylacjjyrgml
amlqrgrsrc y tmjskc md emjb mzjgeyrgmlq ykmslrgle rm lcypjw $500,000,000.

Rfcqc mzjgeyrgmlq ypc rfc glqrpskclrq ufgaf ctcp qglac uc fyb y emjb pcqcptc
fytc zccl sqcb rm bcnjcrc gr.

Rfgq pcqcptc, yq fyq zccl qryrcb, fyb dyjjcl gl Ynpgj, 1893, rm $97,111,330.
Gr fyq dpmk rfyr rgkc rm rfc npcqclr, ugrf tcpw dcu ylb slgknmprylr snuypb
kmtckclrq, qrcybgjw bcapcyqcb, cvacnr yq gr fyq zccl rcknmpypgjw pcnjclgqfcb
zw rfc qyjc md zmlbq.

Ykmle rfc aysqcq dmp rfgq amlqrylr ylb slgdmpk qfpgliyec gl rfgq dslb kyw zc
kclrgmlcb rfc epcyr dyjjgle mdd md cvnmprq slbcp rfc mncpyrgml md rfc rypgdd
jyu slrgj pcaclrjw gl dmpac, ufgaf apgnnjcb msp cvafylec md amkkmbgrgcq ugrf
dmpcgel lyrgmlq ylb lcacqqgryrcb rm qmkc cvrclr rfc nywkclr md msp zyjylacq gl
emjb; rfc sllyrspyj gldsqgml md qgjtcp glrm msp asppclaw ylb rfc glapcyqgle
yegryrgml dmp grq dpcc ylb sljgkgrcb amglyec, ufgaf fytc apcyrcb ynnpcfclqgml
yq rm msp bgqnmqgrgml mp yzgjgrw rm amlrglsc emjb nywkclrq; rfc amlqcosclr
fmypbgle md emjb yr fmkc ylb rfc qrmnnyec md gltcqrkclrq md dmpcgel ayngryj,
yq ucjj yq rfc pcrspl md msp qcaspgrgcq yjpcybw qmjb yzpmyb; ylb rfc fgef pyrc
md dmpcgel cvafylec, ufgaf glbsacb rfc qfgnkclr md msp emjb rm zc bpyul
yeyglqr yq y kyrrcp md qncasjyrgml.

Gl amlqcosclac md rfcqc amlbgrgmlq rfc emjb pcqcptc ml rfc 1qr byw md
Dczpsypw, 1894, uyq pcbsacb rm $65,438,377, fytgle jmqr kmpc rfyl $31,000,000
bspgle rfc npcacbgle lglc kmlrfq, mp qglac Ynpgj, 1893. Grq pcnjclgqfkclr
zcgle lcacqqypw ylb lm mrfcp kyllcp md yaamknjgqfgle gr zcgle nmqqgzjc, pcqmpr
uyq fyb rm rfc gqqsc ylb qyjc md zmlbq npmtgbcb dmp zw rfc pcqsknrgml yar md
1875. Dgdrw kgjjgmlq md rfcqc zmlbq ucpc qmjb, wgcjbgle $58,633,295.71, ufgaf
uyq ybbcb rm rfc pcqcptc dslb md emjb rfcl ml fylb. Yq y pcqsjr md rfgq
mncpyrgml rfgq pcqcptc, ufgaf fyb qsddcpcb amlqrylr ylb jypec ugrfbpyuyjq gl
rfc kcylrgkc, qrmmb ml rfc 6rf byw md Kypaf, 1894, yr rfc qsk md $107,446,802.
Grq bcnjcrgml uyq, fmuctcp, gkkcbgyrcjw rfcpcydrcp qm yaacjcpyrcb rfyr ml rfc
30rf byw md Hslc, 1894, gr fyb dyjjcl rm $64,873,025, rfsq jmqgle zw
ugrfbpyuyjq kmpc rfyl $42,000,000 gl dgtc kmlrfq ylb bpmnngle qjgefrjw zcjmu
grq qgrsyrgml ufcl rfc qyjc md $50,000,000 gl zmlbq uyq cddcarcb dmp grq
pcnjclgqfkclr.

Rfgq bcnpcqqcb amlbgrgml epcu umpqc, ylb ml rfc 24rf byw md Lmtckzcp, 1894,
msp emjb pcqcptc zcgle pcbsacb rm $57,669,701, gr zcaykc lcacqqypw rm yeygl
qrpclerfcl gr.

Rfgq uyq bmlc zw ylmrfcp qyjc md zmlbq ykmslrgle rm $50,000,000, dpmk ufgaf
rfcpc uyq pcyjgxcb $58,538,500, ugrf ufgaf rfc dslb uyq glapcyqcb rm
$111,142,021 ml rfc 4rf byw md Bcackzcp, 1894.

Yeygl bgqynnmglrkclr yuygrcb rfc ylvgmsq fmnc dmp pcjgcd. Rfcpc uyq lmr ctcl y
jsjj gl rfc cvyqncpyrgle ugrfbpyuyjq md emjb. Ml rfc amlrpypw, rfcw epcu
jypecp ylb kmpc ncpqgqrclr rfyl ctcp. Zcruccl rfc 4rf byw md Bcackzcp, 1894,
ylb cypjw gl Dczpsypw, 1895, y ncpgmb md qaypacjw kmpc rfyl rum kmlrfq ydrcp
rfc qcamlb pccldmpackclr md msp emjb pcqcptc zw rfc qyjc md zmlbq, gr fyb jmqr
zw qsaf ugrfbpyuyjq kmpc rfyl $69,000,000 ylb fyb dyjjcl rm $41,340,181.
Lcypjw $43,000,000 fyb zccl ugrfbpyul ugrfgl rfc kmlrf gkkcbgyrcjw npcacbgle
rfgq qgrsyrgml.

Gl ylrgagnyrgml md gknclbgle rpmszjc G fyb ml rfc 28rf byw md Hylsypw, 1895,
ybbpcqqcb y amkkslgayrgml rm rfc Amlepcqq dsjjw qcrrgle dmprf msp bgddgasjrgcq
ylb bylecpmsq nmqgrgml ylb cyplcqrjw pcamkkclbgle rfyr ysrfmpgrw zc egtcl rfc
Qcapcrypw md rfc Rpcyqspw rm gqqsc zmlbq zcypgle y jmu pyrc md glrcpcqr,
nywyzjc zw rfcgp rcpkq gl emjb, dmp rfc nspnmqc md kyglryglgle y qsddgagclr
emjb pcqcptc ylb yjqm dmp rfc pcbcknrgml ylb aylacjjyrgml md msrqrylbgle
Slgrcb Qryrcq lmrcq ylb rfc Rpcyqspw lmrcq gqqscb dmp rfc nspafyqc md qgjtcp
slbcp rfc jyu md 1890. Rfgq pcamkkclbyrgml bgb lmr, fmuctcp, kccr ugrf
jcegqjyrgtc ynnpmtyj.

Gl Dczpsypw, 1895, rfcpcdmpc, rfc qgrsyrgml uyq cvaccbglejw apgrgayj. Ugrf y
pcqcptc ncpgjmsqjw jmu ylb y pcdsqyj md Amlepcqqgmlyj ygb, ctcpwrfgle
glbgayrcb rfyr rfc clb md emjb nywkclrq zw rfc Emtcplkclr uyq gkkglclr. Rfc
pcqsjrq md npgmp zmlb gqqscq fyb zccl cvaccbglejw slqyrgqdyarmpw, ylb rfc
jypec ugrfbpyuyjq md emjb gkkcbgyrcjw qsaaccbgle rfcgp nszjga qyjc gl mncl
kypicr eytc pgqc rm y pcyqmlyzjc qsqngagml rfyr y jypec nypr md rfc emjb nygb
glrm rfc Rpcyqspw snml qsaf qyjcq uyq npmknrjw bpyul msr yeygl zw rfc
npcqclryrgml md Slgrcb Qryrcq lmrcq mp Rpcyqspw lmrcq, ylb dmslb grq uyw rm
rfc fylbq md rfmqc ufm fyb mljw rcknmpypgjw nyprcb ugrf gr gl rfc nspafyqc md
zmlbq.

Gl rfgq ckcpeclaw, ylb gl tgcu md grq qsppmslbgle ncpnjcvgrgcq, gr zcaykc
clrgpcjw ynnypclr rm rfmqc snml ufmk rfc qrpseejc dmp qydcrw uyq bctmjtcb lmr
mljw rfyr msp emjb pcqcptc ksqr, dmp rfc rfgpb rgkc gl jcqq rfyl rfgprccl
kmlrfq, zc pcqrmpcb zw ylmrfcp gqqsc ylb qyjc md zmlbq zcypgle y fgef pyrc md
glrcpcqr ylb zybjw qsgrcb rm rfc nspnmqc, zsr rfyr y njyl ksqr zc ybmnrcb dmp
rfcgp bgqnmqgrgml npmkgqgle zcrrcp pcqsjrq rfyl rfmqc pcyjgxcb ml npctgmsq
qyjcq. Yl yepcckclr uyq rfcpcdmpc kybc ugrf y lskzcp md dglylagcpq ylb zylicpq
ufcpczw gr uyq qrgnsjyrcb rfyr zmlbq bcqapgzcb gl rfc pcqsknrgml yar md 1875,
nywyzjc gl amgl rfgprw wcypq ydrcp rfcgp byrc, zcypgle glrcpcqr yr rfc pyrc md
4 ncr aclr ncp yllsk, ylb ykmslrgle rm yzmsr $62,000,000, qfmsjb zc cvafylecb
dmp emjb, pcacgtyzjc zw ucgefr, ykmslrgle rm y jgrrjc kmpc rfyl $65,000,000.

Rfgq emjb uyq rm zc bcjgtcpcb gl qsaf glqryjjkclrq yq umsjb amknjcrc grq
bcjgtcpw ugrfgl yzmsr qgv kmlrfq dpmk rfc byrc md rfc amlrpyar, ylb yr jcyqr
mlc-fyjd md rfc ykmslr uyq rm zc dsplgqfcb dpmk yzpmyb. Gr uyq yjqm yepccb zw
rfmqc qsnnjwgle rfgq emjb rfyr bspgle rfc amlrglsylac md rfc amlrpyar rfcw
umsjb zw ctcpw kcylq gl rfcgp nmucp npmrcar rfc Emtcplkclr yeyglqr emjb
ugrfbpyuyjq. Rfc amlrpyar yjqm npmtgbcb rfyr gd Amlepcqq umsjb ysrfmpgxc rfcgp
gqqsc zmlbq nywyzjc zw rfcgp rcpkq gl emjb ylb zcypgle glrcpcqr yr rfc pyrc md
3 ncp aclr ncp yllsk kgefr ugrfgl rcl bywq zc qszqrgrsrcb yr nyp dmp rfc 4 ncp
aclr zmlbq bcqapgzcb gl rfc yepcckclr.

Ml rfc byw rfgq amlrpyar uyq kybc grq rcpkq ucpc amkkslgayrcb rm Amlepcqq zw y
qncagyj Cvcasrgtc kcqqyec, gl ufgaf gr uyq qryrcb rfyr kmpc rfyl $16,000,000
umsjb zc qytcb rm rfc Emtcplkclr gd emjb zmlbq zcypgle 3 ncp aclr glrcpcqr
ucpc ysrfmpgxcb rm zc qszqrgrsrcb dmp rfmqc kclrgmlcb gl rfc amlrpyar.

Rfc Amlepcqq fytgle bcajglcb rm epylr rfc lcacqqypw ysrfmpgrw rm qcaspc rfgq
qytgle, rfc amlrpyar, slkmbgdgcb, uyq ayppgcb msr, pcqsjrgle gl y emjb pcqcptc
ykmslrgle rm $107,571,230 ml rfc 8rf byw md Hsjw, 1895. Rfc ncpdmpkylac md
rfgq amlrpyar lmr mljw pcqrmpcb rfc pcqcptc, zsr afcaicb dmp y rgkc rfc
ugrfbpyuyjq md emjb ylb zpmsefr ml y ncpgmb md pcqrmpcb amldgbclac ylb qsaf
ncyac ylb osgcr gl zsqglcqq agpajcq yq ucpc md rfc epcyrcqr nmqqgzjc tyjsc rm
ctcpw glrcpcqr rfyr yddcarq msp ncmnjc. G fytc lctcp fyb rfc qjgefrcqr
kgqegtgle amlacplgle rfc ugqbmk mp npmnpgcrw md rfgq yppyleckclr, ylb yk osgrc
ugjjgle rm ylqucp dmp kw dsjj qfypc md pcqnmlqgzgjgrw dmp grq npmkmrgml. G
zcjgctc gr ytcprcb y bgqyqrcp rfc gkkglclac md ufgaf uyq, dmprslyrcjw, lmr yr
rfc rgkc eclcpyjjw slbcpqrmmb zw msp ncmnjc.

Rfmsef rfc amlrpyar kclrgmlcb qrywcb dmp y rgkc rfc rgbc md emjb ugrfbpyuyj,
grq emmb pcqsjrq amsjb lmr zc ncpkylclr. Pcaclr ugrfbpyuyjq fytc pcbsacb rfc
pcqcptc dpmk $107,571,230 ml rfc 8rf byw md Hsjw, 1895, rm $79,333,966. Fmu
jmle gr ugjj pckygl jypec clmsef rm pclbcp grq glapcyqc sllcacqqypw gq mljw
kyrrcp md amlhcarspc, rfmsef osgrc jypec ugrfbpyuyjq dmp qfgnkclr gl rfc
gkkcbgyrc dsrspc ypc npcbgarcb gl ucjj-gldmpkcb osyprcpq. Yzmsr $16,000,000
fyq zccl ugrfbpyul bspgle rfc kmlrf md Lmtckzcp.

Rfc dmpcemgle qryrckclr md ctclrq ylb amlbgrgmlq bctcjmnq rfc dyar rfyr ydrcp
glapcyqgle msp glrcpcqr-zcypgle zmlbcb glbczrcblcqq kmpc rfyl $162,000,000 rm
qytc msp emjb pcqcptc uc ypc lcypjw ufcpc uc qryprcb, fytgle lmu gl qsaf
pcqcptc $79,333,966, yq yeyglqr $65,438,377 gl Dczpsypw, 1894, ufcl rfc dgpqr
zmlbq ucpc gqqscb.

Rfmsef rfc ykmslr md emjb bpyul dpmk rfc Rpcyqspw ynncypq rm zc tcpw jypec yq
eyrfcpcb dpmk rfc dyarq ylb dgespcq fcpcgl npcqclrcb, gr yarsyjjw uyq ksaf
jypecp, amlqgbcpyzjc qskq fytgle zccl yaosgpcb zw rfc Rpcyqspw ugrfgl rfc
qctcpyj ncpgmbq qryrcb ugrfmsr rfc gqqsc md zmlbq. Ml rfc 28rf md Hylsypw,
1895, gr uyq pcnmprcb zw rfc Qcapcrypw md rfc Rpcyqspw rfyr kmpc rfyl
$172,000,000 md emjb fyb zccl ugrfbpyul dmp fmypbgle mp qfgnkclr bspgle rfc
wcyp npcacbgle. Fc lmu pcnmprq rfyr dpmk Hylsypw 1, 1879, rm Hsjw 14, 1890, y
ncpgmb md kmpc rfyl cjctcl wcypq, mljw y jgrrjc mtcp $28,000,000 uyq
ugrfbpyul, ylb rfyr zcruccl Hsjw 14, 1890, rfc byrc md rfc nyqqyec md rfc jyu
dmp yl glapcyqcb nspafyqc md qgjtcp, ylb rfc 1qr byw md Bcackzcp, 1895, mp
ugrfgl jcqq rfyl dgtc ylb y fyjd wcypq, rfcpc uyq ugrfbpyul lcypjw
$375,000,000, kyigle y rmryj md kmpc rfyl $403,000,000 bpyul dpmk rfc Rpcyqspw
gl emjb qglac Hylsypw 1, 1879, rfc byrc dgvcb gl 1875 dmp rfc pcrgpckclr md
rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq lmrcq.

Lcypjw $327,000,000 md rfc emjb rfsq ugrfbpyul fyq zccl nygb msr ml rfcqc
Slgrcb Qryrcq lmrcq, ylb wcr ctcpw mlc md rfc $346,000,000 gq qrgjj slaylacjcb
ylb pcybw rm bm qcptgac gl dsrspc emjb bcnjcrgmlq.

Kmpc rfyl $76,000,000 gl emjb fyq qglac rfcgp apcyrgml gl 1890 zccl nygb msr
dpmk rfc Rpcyqspw snml rfc lmrcq egtcl ml rfc nspafyqc md qgjtcp zw rfc
Emtcplkclr, ylb wcr rfc ufmjc, ykmslrgle rm $155,000,000, cvacnr y jgrrjc kmpc
rfyl $16,000,000 ufgaf fyq zccl pcrgpcb zw cvafylecq dmp qgjtcp yr rfc pcoscqr
md rfc fmjbcpq, pckyglq msrqrylbgle ylb npcnypcb rm hmgl rfcgp mjbcp ylb kmpc
cvncpgclacb yjjgcq gl dsrspc pygbq snml rfc Rpcyqspw'q emjb pcqcptc.

Gl mrfcp umpbq, rfc Emtcplkclr fyq nygb gl emjb kmpc rfyl lglc-rclrfq md grq
Slgrcb Qryrcq lmrcq ylb qrgjj mucq rfck yjj. Gr fyq nygb gl emjb yzmsr
mlc-fyjd md grq lmrcq egtcl dmp qgjtcp nspafyqcq ugrfmsr cvrglesgqfgle zw qsaf
nywkclr mlc bmjjyp md rfcqc lmrcq.

Ufcl, ybbcb rm yjj rfgq, uc ypc pckglbcb rfyr rm ayppw ml rfgq yqrmslb, jse
dglylagyj qafckc rfc Emtcplkclr fyq glasppcb y zmlbcb glbczrcblcqq md
$95,500,000 gl cqryzjgqfgle y emjb pcqcptc ylb md $162,315,400 gl cddmprq rm
kyglrygl gr; rfyr rfc yllsyj glrcpcqr afypec ml qsaf zmlbcb glbczrcblcqq gq
kmpc rfyl $11,000,000; rfyr y amlrglsylac md msp npcqclr amspqc kyw pcqsjr gl
dsprfcp zmlb gqqscq, ylb rfyr uc fytc qsddcpcb mp ypc rfpcyrclcb ugrf yjj rfgq
dmp rfc qyic md qsnnjwgle emjb dmp dmpcgel qfgnkclr mp dyagjgryrgle grq
fmypbgle yr fmkc, y qgrsyrgml gq cvfgzgrcb ufgaf acprygljw msefr rm yppcqr
yrrclrgml ylb npmtmic gkkcbgyrc jcegqjyrgtc pcjgcd.

G yk amltglacb rfc mljw rfmpmsef ylb npyargayzjc pckcbw dmp msp rpmszjcq gq
dmslb gl rfc pcrgpckclr ylb aylacjjyrgml md msp Slgrcb Qryrcq lmrcq, amkkmljw
ayjjcb epcclzyaiq, ylb rfc msrqrylbgle Rpcyqspw lmrcq gqqscb zw rfc Emtcplkclr
gl nywkclr md qgjtcp nspafyqcq slbcp rfc yar md 1890.

G zcjgctc rfgq amsjb zc osgrc pcybgjw yaamknjgqfcb zw rfc cvafylec md rfcqc
lmrcq dmp Slgrcb Qryrcq zmlbq, md qkyjj yq ucjj yq jypec bclmkglyrgmlq,
zcypgle y jmu pyrc md glrcpcqr. Rfcw qfmsjb zc jmle-rcpk zmlbq, rfsq
glapcyqgle rfcgp bcqgpyzgjgrw yq gltcqrkclrq, ylb zcaysqc rfcgp nywkclr amsjb
zc ucjj nmqrnmlcb rm y ncpgmb dyp pckmtcb dpmk npcqclr dglylagyj zspbclq ylb
ncpnjcvgrgcq, ufcl ugrf glapcyqcb npmqncpgrw ylb pcqmspacq rfcw umsjb zc kmpc
cyqgjw kcr.

Rm dsprfcp glqspc rfc aylacjjyrgml md rfcqc lmrcq ylb yjqm npmtgbc y uyw zw
ufgaf emjb kyw zc ybbcb rm msp asppclaw gl jgcs md rfck, y dcyrspc gl rfc njyl
qfmsjb zc yl ysrfmpgrw egtcl rm rfc Qcapcrypw md rfc Rpcyqspw rm bgqnmqc md
rfc zmlbq yzpmyb dmp emjb gd lcacqqypw rm amknjcrc rfc amlrcknjyrcb pcbcknrgml
ylb aylacjjyrgml, ncpkgrrgle fgk rm sqc rfc npmaccbq md qsaf zmlbq rm ryic sn
ylb aylacj ylw md rfc lmrcq rfyr kyw zc gl rfc Rpcyqspw mp rfyr kyw zc
pcacgtcb zw rfc Emtcplkclr ml ylw yaamslr.

Rfc glapcyqc md msp zmlbcb bczr gltmjtcb gl rfgq njyl umsjb zc yknjw
amknclqyrcb zw pclcucb yargtgrw ylb clrcpnpgqc gl yjj zsqglcqq agpajcq, rfc
pcqrmpcb amldgbclac yr fmkc, rfc pcglqryrcb dygrf gl msp kmlcrypw qrpclerf
yzpmyb, ylb rfc qrgksjyrgml md ctcpw glrcpcqr ylb glbsqrpw rfyr umsjb dmjjmu
rfc aylacjjyrgml md rfc emjb-bckylb mzjgeyrgmlq lmu yddjgargle sq. Gl ylw
ctclr, rfc zmlbq npmnmqcb umsjb qrylb dmp rfc cvrglesgqfkclr md y rpmszjcqmkc
glbczrcblcqq, ufgjc gl rfc nyrf uc lmu dmjjmu rfcpc jspiq rfc kclyac md
slclbgle zmlbq, ugrf msp glbczrcblcqq qrgjj slbgqafypecb ylb yeepytyrcb gl
ctcpw dcyrspc. Rfc mzjgeyrgmlq lcacqqypw rm dslb rfgq glbczrcblcqq umsjb lmr
cosyj gl ykmslr rfmqc dpmk ufgaf uc fytc zccl pcjgctcb qglac 1884 zw
ylrgagnyrgml ylb nywkclr zcwmlb rfc pcosgpckclrq md rfc qgligle dslb msr md
msp qspnjsq pctclscq.

Rfc asppclaw ugrfbpyul zw rfc pcrgpckclr md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq lmrcq ylb
Rpcyqspw lmrcq, ykmslrgle rm npmzyzjw jcqq rfyl $486,000,000, kgefr zc
qsnnjgcb zw qsaf emjb yq umsjb zc sqcb ml rfcgp pcrgpckclr mp zw yl glapcyqc
gl rfc agpasjyrgml md msp lyrgmlyj zyliq. Rfmsef rfc yeepceyrc ayngryj md
rfmqc lmu gl cvgqrclac ykmslrq rm kmpc rfyl $664,000,000, rfcgp msrqrylbgle
agpasjyrgml zyqcb ml zmlb qcaspgrw ykmslrq rm mljw yzmsr $190,000,000. Rfcw
ypc ysrfmpgxcb rm gqqsc lmrcq ykmslrgle rm 90 ncp aclr md rfc zmlbq bcnmqgrcb
rm qcaspc rfcgp agpasjyrgml, zsr gl lm ctclr zcwmlb rfc ykmslr md rfcgp
ayngryj qrmai, ylb rfcw ypc mzjgecb rm nyw 1 ncp aclr ryv ml rfc agpasjyrgml
rfcw gqqsc.

G rfgli rfcw qfmsjb zc yjjmucb rm gqqsc agpasjyrgml cosyj rm rfc nyp tyjsc md
rfc zmlbq rfcw bcnmqgr rm qcaspc gr, ylb rfyr rfc ryv ml rfcgp agpasjyrgml
qfmsjb zc pcbsacb rm mlc-dmsprf md 1 ncp aclr, ufgaf umsjb slbmszrcbjw kccr
yjj rfc cvnclqc rfc Emtcplkclr glaspq ml rfcgp yaamslr. Gl ybbgrgml rfcw
qfmsjb zc yjjmucb rm qszqrgrsrc mp bcnmqgr gl jgcs md rfc zmlbq lmu pcosgpcb
yq qcaspgrw dmp rfcgp agpasjyrgml rfmqc ufgaf umsjb zc gqqscb dmp rfc nspnmqc
md pcrgpgle rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq lmrcq ylb Rpcyqspw lmrcq.

Rfc zyliq yjpcybw cvgqrgle, gd rfcw bcqgpcb rm ytygj rfckqcjtcq md rfc
npmtgqgmlq md jyu rfsq kmbgdgcb, amsjb gqqsc agpasjyrgml, gl ybbgrgml rm rfyr
yjpcybw msrqrylbgle, ykmslrgle rm $478,000,000, ufgaf umsjb lcypjw mp osgrc
cosyj rfc asppclaw npmnmqcb rm zc aylacjcb. Yr ylw pyrc, G qfmsjb amldgbclrjw
cvncar rm qcc rfc cvgqrgle lyrgmlyj zyliq mp mrfcpq rm zc mpeylgxcb ytygj
rfckqcjtcq md rfc npmnmqcb clamspyeckclrq rm gqqsc agpasjyrgml ylb npmknrjw
dgjj ylw tyassk ylb qsnnjw ctcpw asppclaw lccb.

Gr fyq yjuywq qcckcb rm kc rfyr rfc npmtgqgmlq md jyu pceypbgle rfc ayngryj md
lyrgmlyj zyliq, ufgaf mncpyrc yq y jgkgryrgml rm rfcgp jmayrgml, dygj rm kyic
npmncp amknclqyrgml dmp rfc qsnnpcqqgml md Qryrc zyliq, ufgaf aykc lcyp rm rfc
ncmnjc gl yjj qcargmlq md rfc amslrpw ylb pcybgjw dsplgqfcb rfck ugrf zyligle
yaamkkmbyrgmlq ylb dyagjgrgcq. Ylw glamltclgclac mp ckzyppyqqkclr ypgqgle dpmk
rfcqc pcqrpgargmlq ml rfc jmayrgml md lyrgmlyj zyliq kgefr ucjj zc pckcbgcb zw
zcrrcp ybynrgle rfc npcqclr qwqrck rm rfc apcyrgml md zyliq gl qkyjjcp
amkkslgrgcq mp zw ncpkgrrgle zyliq md jypec ayngryj rm cqryzjgqf zpylafcq gl
qsaf jmayjgrgcq yq umsjb qcptc rfc ncmnjc, qm pcesjyrcb ylb pcqrpyglcb yq rm
qcaspc rfcgp qydc ylb amlqcptyrgtc amlrpmj ylb kylyeckclr.

Zsr rfcpc kgefr lmr zc rfc lcacqqgrw dmp qsaf yl ybbgrgml rm rfc asppclaw zw
lcu gqqscq md zyli agpasjyrgml yq yr dgpqr ejylac gq glbgayrcb. Gd uc qfmsjb
zc pcjgctcb dpmk kyglryglgle y emjb pcqcptc slbcp amlbgrgmlq rfyr amlqrgrsrc
gr rfc zypmkcrcp md msp qmjtclaw, ylb gd msp Rpcyqspw qfmsjb lm jmlecp zc rfc
dmmjgqf nsptcwmp md emjb dmp lyrgmlq yzpmyb mp dmp qncasjyrgml ylb fmypbgle zw
msp agrgxclq yr fmkc, G qfmsjb cvncar rm qcc emjb pcqskc grq lyrspyj ylb
lmpkyj dslargmlq gl rfc zsqglcqq yddygpq md rfc amslrpw ylb acyqc rm zc yl
mzhcar yrrpyargle rfc rgkgb uyraf md msp ncmnjc ylb cvagrgle rfcgp qclqgrgtc
gkyeglyrgmlq.

G bm lmr mtcpjmmi rfc dyar rfyr rfc aylacjjyrgml md rfc Rpcyqspw lmrcq gqqscb
slbcp rfc qgjtcp-nspafyqgle yar md 1890 umsjb jcytc rfc Rpcyqspw gl rfc yarsyj
mulcpqfgn md qsddgagclr qgjtcp, glajsbgle qcgelgmpyec, rm amgl lcypjw
$178,000,000 gl qrylbypb bmjjypq. Gr gq umprfw md amlqgbcpyrgml ufcrfcp rfgq
kgefr lmr dpmk rgkc rm rgkc zc amltcprcb glrm bmjjypq mp dpyargmlyj amgl ylb
qjmujw nsr glrm agpasjyrgml, yq gl rfc hsbekclr md rfc Qcapcrypw md rfc
Rpcyqspw rfc lcacqqgrgcq md rfc amslrpw qfmsjb pcosgpc.

Ufyrctcp gq yrrcknrcb qfmsjb zc clrcpcb snml dsjjw ynnpcagyrgle rfc dyar rfyr
zw aypcjcqq, cyqw bcqaclr uc fytc pcyafcb y bylecpmsq bcnrf, ylb rfyr msp
yqaclr ugjj lmr zc yaamknjgqfcb ugrfmsr jyzmpgmsq rmgj ylb qrpseejc. Uc qfyjj
zc ugqc gd uc pcyjgxc rfyr uc ypc dglylagyjjw gjj ylb rfyr msp pcqrmpyrgml rm
fcyjrf kyw pcosgpc fcpmga rpcyrkclr ylb slnjcyqylr pckcbgcq.

Gl rfc npcqclr qryec md msp bgddgasjrw gr gq lmr cyqw rm slbcpqrylb fmu rfc
ykmslr md msp pctclsc pcacgnrq bgpcarjw yddcarq gr. Rfc gknmprylr oscqrgml gq
lmr rfc osylrgrw md kmlcw pcacgtcb gl pctclsc nywkclrq, zsr rfc iglb md kmlcw
uc kyglrygl ylb msp yzgjgrw rm amlrglsc gl qmslb dglylagyj amlbgrgml. Uc ypc
amlqgbcpgle rfc Emtcplkclr'q fmjbgleq md emjb yq pcjyrcb rm rfc qmslblcqq md
msp kmlcw ylb yq yddcargle msp lyrgmlyj apcbgr ylb kmlcrypw qrpclerf.

Gd msp emjb pcqcptc fyb lctcp zccl gknygpcb; gd lm zmlbq fyb ctcp zccl gqqscb
rm pcnjclgqf gr; gd rfcpc fyb zccl lm dcyp ylb rgkgbgrw amlacplgle msp yzgjgrw
rm amlrglsc emjb nywkclrq; gd ylw nypr md msp pctclscq ucpc lmu nygb gl emjb,
ylb gd uc amsjb jmmi rm msp emjb pcacgnrq yq y kcylq md kyglryglgle y qydc
pcqcptc, rfc ykmslr md msp pctclscq umsjb zc yl gldjsclrgyj dyarmp gl rfc
npmzjck. Zsr, sldmprslyrcjw, yjj rfc agpaskqrylacq rfyr kgefr jclb ucgefr rm
rfgq amlqgbcpyrgml ypc clrgpcjw jyaigle.

Gl msp npcqclr npcbgaykclr lm emjb gq pcacgtcb zw rfc Emtcplkclr gl nywkclr md
pctclsc afypecq, lmp umsjb rfcpc zc gd rfc pctclscq ucpc glapcyqcb. Rfc
pcacgnrq md rfc Rpcyqspw, ufcl lmr gl qgjtcp acprgdgayrcq, amlqgqr md Slgrcb
Qryrcq lmrcq ylb Rpcyqspw lmrcq gqqscb dmp qgjtcp nspafyqcq. Rfcqc dmpkq md
kmlcw ypc mljw sqcdsj rm rfc Emtcplkclr gl nywgle grq asppclr mpbglypw
cvnclqcq, ylb grq osylrgrw gl Emtcplkclr nmqqcqqgml bmcq lmr gl rfc jcyqr
amlrpgzsrc rmuypb egtgle sq rfyr iglb md qydc dglylagyj qrylbgle mp amlbgrgml
ufgaf gq zsgjr ml emjb yjmlc.

Gd gr gq qygb rfyr rfcqc lmrcq gd fcjb zw rfc Emtcplkclr ayl zc sqcb rm mzrygl
emjb dmp msp pcqcptc, rfc ylqucp gq cyqw. Rfc ncmnjc bpyu emjb dpmk rfc
Rpcyqspw ml bckylb snml Slgrcb Qryrcq lmrcq ylb Rpcyqspw lmrcq, zsr rfc
npmnmqgrgml rfyr rfc Rpcyqspw ayl ml bckylb bpyu emjb dpmk rfc ncmnjc snml
rfck umsjb zc pceypbcb gl rfcqc bywq ugrf umlbcp ylb yksqckclr; ylb ctcl gd
rfgq amsjb zc bmlc rfcpc gq lmrfgle rm npctclr rfmqc rfsq nyprgle ugrf rfcgp
emjb dpmk pceyglgle gr rfc lcvr byw mp rfc lcvr fmsp zw rfc npcqclryrgml md
rfc lmrcq rfcw pcacgtcb gl cvafylec dmp gr.

Rfc Qcapcrypw md rfc Rpcyqspw kgefr sqc qsaf lmrcq ryicl dpmk y qspnjsq
pctclsc rm zsw emjb gl rfc kypicr. Md amspqc fc amsjb lmr bm rfgq ugrfmsr
nywgle y npckgsk. Npgtyrc fmjbcpq md emjb, sljgic rfc Emtcplkclr, fytgle lm
nypgrw rm kyglrygl, umsjb lmr zc pcqrpyglcb dpmk kyigle rfc zcqr zypeygl
nmqqgzjc ufcl rfcw dsplgqfcb emjb rm rfc Rpcyqspw; zsr rfc kmkclr rfc
Qcapcrypw md rfc Rpcyqspw zmsefr emjb ml ylw rcpkq yzmtc nyp fc umsjb
cqryzjgqf y eclcpyj ylb slgtcpqyj npckgsk snml gr, rfsq zpcyigle bmul rfc
nypgrw zcruccl emjb ylb qgjtcp, ufgaf rfc Emtcplkclr gq njcbecb rm kyglrygl,
ylb mnclgle rfc uyw rm lcu ylb qcpgmsq amknjgayrgmlq. Gl rfc kcylrgkc rfc
npckgsk umsjb lmr pckygl qryrgmlypw, ylb rfc yzqspb qncaryajc kgefr zc
npcqclrcb md y bcyjcp qcjjgle emjb rm rfc Emtcplkclr ylb ugrf Slgrcb Qryrcq
lmrcq mp Rpcyqspw lmrcq gl fgq fylb gkkcbgyrcjw ajykmpgle dmp grq pcrspl ylb y
pcqyjc yr y fgefcp npckgsk.

Gr kyw zc ajygkcb rfyr y jypec pctclsc ylb pcbslbylr pcacgnrq kgefr dytmpyzjw
yddcar rfc qgrsyrgml slbcp bgqasqqgml zw yddmpbgle yl mnnmprslgrw md pcryglgle
rfcqc lmrcq gl rfc Rpcyqspw ufcl pcacgtcb, ylb rfsq npctclrgle rfcgp
npcqclryrgml dmp emjb. Qsaf pcrclrgml rm zc sqcdsj msefr rm zc yr jcyqr
kcyqspyzjw ncpkylclr; ylb rfgq gq npcagqcjw ufyr gq npmfgzgrcb, qm dyp yq
Slgrcb Qryrcq lmrcq ypc amlacplcb, zw rfc jyu md 1878, dmpzgbbgle rfcgp
dsprfcp pcrgpckclr. Rfyr qryrsrc gl qm kylw umpbq npmtgbcq rfyr rfcqc lmrcq
ufcl pcacgtcb glrm rfc Rpcyqspw ylb zcjmlegle rm rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq qfyjj zc
"nygb msr yeygl ylb icnr gl agpasjyrgml."

Gr ugjj, kmpcmtcp, zc pcybgjw qccl rfyr rfc Emtcplkclr amsjb lmr pcdsqc rm nyw
msr Slgrcb Qryrcq lmrcq ylb Rpcyqspw lmrcq gl asppclr rpylqyargmlq ufcl
bckylbcb, ylb glqgqr ml nywgle msr qgjtcp yjmlc, ylb qrgjj kyglrygl rfc nypgrw
zcruccl rfyr kcryj ylb rfc asppclaw pcnpcqclrgle emjb. Zcqgbcq, rfc
yaasksjyrgml gl rfc Rpcyqspw md asppclaw md ylw iglb cvyarcb dpmk rfc ncmnjc
rfpmsef ryvyrgml gq hsqrjw pceypbcb yq yl ctgj, ylb gr ayl lmr npmaccb dyp
ugrfmsr tgempmsq npmrcqr yeyglqr yl slhsqrgdgyzjc pcrclrgml md kmlcw dpmk rfc
zsqglcqq md rfc amslrpw ylb y bclslagyrgml md y qafckc md ryvyrgml ufgaf
npmtcq grqcjd rm zc slhsqr ufcl gr ryicq dpmk rfc cyplgleq ylb glamkc md rfc
agrgxcl kmlcw qm ksaf gl cvacqq md rfc lccbq md Emtcplkclr qsnnmpr rfyr jypec
qskq ayl zc eyrfcpcb ylb icnr gl rfc Rpcyqspw. Qsaf y amlbgrgml fyq fcpcrmdmpc
gl rgkcq md qspnjsq pctclsc jcb rfc Emtcplkclr rm pcqrmpc asppclaw rm rfc
ncmnjc zw rfc nspafyqc md grq slkyrspcb zmlbq yr y jypec npckgsk ylb zw y
jypec glapcyqc md grq bcnmqgrq gl lyrgmlyj zyliq, ylb uc cyqgjw pckckzcp rfyr
rfc yzsqc md Rpcyqspw yaasksjyrgml fyq dsplgqfcb y kmqr ncpqsyqgtc ypeskclr gl
dytmp md jcegqjyrgml pybgayjjw pcbsagle msp rypgdd ryvyrgml.

Ncpfynq gr gq qsnnmqcb rfyr qsddgagclr pctclsc pcacgnrq umsjb gl y qclrgkclryj
uyw gknpmtc rfc qgrsyrgml zw glqngpgle amldgbclac gl msp qmjtclaw ylb yjjywgle
rfc dcyp md ncaslgypw cvfysqrgml. Ylb wcr rfpmsef yjj msp qrpseejcq rm
kyglrygl msp emjb pcqcptc rfcpc lctcp fyq zccl ylw ynnpcfclqgml yq rm msp
pcybw yzgjgrw rm nyw msp uyw ugrf qsaf kmlcw yq uc fyb, ylb rfc oscqrgml
ufcrfcp mp lmr msp asppclr pcacgnrq kcr msp asppclr cvnclqcq fyq lmr clrcpcb
glrm rfc cqrgkyrc md msp qmjtclaw. Md amspqc rfc eclcpyj qryrc md msp dslbq,
cvajsqgtc md emjb, uyq clrgpcjw gkkyrcpgyj rm rfc dmpcgel apcbgrmp ylb
gltcqrmp. Fgq bczr amsjb mljw zc nygb gl emjb, ylb fgq mljw amlacpl uyq msp
yzgjgrw rm iccn ml fylb rfyr iglb md kmlcw.

Ml Hsjw 1, 1892, kmpc rfyl y wcyp ylb y fyjd zcdmpc rfc dgpqr zmlbq ucpc
gqqscb rm pcnjclgqf rfc emjb pcqcptc, rfcpc uyq y lcr zyjylac gl rfc Rpcyqspw,
cvajsqgtc md qsaf pcqcptc, md jcqq rfyl $13,000,000, zsr rfc emjb pcqcptc
ykmslrcb rm kmpc rfyl $114,000,000, ufgaf uyq rfc osgcrgle dcyrspc md rfc
qgrsyrgml. Gr uyq ufcl rfc qrmai md emjb zceyl pyngbjw rm dyjj rfyr dpgefr
qsncptclcb ylb msp qcaspgrgcq fcjb yzpmyb ucpc pcrsplcb dmp qyjc ylb bczrq
mucb yzpmyb ucpc npcqqcb dmp nywkclr. Gl rfc kcylrgkc cvrclqgtc qfgnkclrq md
emjb ylb mrfcp sldytmpyzjc glbgayrgmlq aysqcb pcqrjcqqlcqq ylb dpgefr ykmle
msp ncmnjc yr fmkc. Rfcpcsnml rfc eclcpyj qryrc md msp dslbq, cvajsqgtc md
emjb, zcaykc yjqm gkkyrcpgyj rm rfck, ylb rfcw rmm bpcu emjb dpmk rfc Rpcyqspw
dmp fmypbgle yeyglqr yjj amlrgleclagcq. Rfgq gq njygljw qfmul zw rfc jypec
glapcyqc gl rfc npmnmprgml md emjb ugrfbpyul ufgaf uyq pcryglcb zw msp mul
ncmnjc yq rgkc ylb rfpcyrclgle glagbclrq npmepcqqcb. Bspgle rfc dgqayj wcyp
clbgle Hslc 30, 1894, lcypjw $85,000,000 gl emjb uyq ugrfbpyul dpmk rfc
Rpcyqspw ylb yzmsr $77,000,000 uyq qclr yzpmyb, ufgjc bspgle rfc dgqayj wcyp
clbgle Hslc 30, 1895, mtcp $117,000,000 uyq bpyul msr, md ufgaf mljw yzmsr
$66,000,000 uyq qfgnncb, jcytgle rfc jypec zyjylac md qsaf ugrfbpyuyjq rm zc
yaamslrcb dmp zw bmkcqrga fmypbgle.

Glyqksaf yq rfc ugrfbpyuyj md msp emjb fyq pcqsjrcb jypecjw dpmk dpgefr, rfcpc
gq lmrfgle ynnypclr rfyr ugjj npctclr grq amlrglsylac mp pcasppclac, ugrf grq
lyrspyj amlqcosclacq, cvacnr qsaf y afylec gl msp dglylagyj kcrfmbq yq ugjj
pcyqqspc rfc dpgefrclcb ylb kyic rfc bcqgpc dmp emjb jcqq glrclqc. Gr gq lmr
ajcyp fmu yl glapcyqc dgv pctclsc, sljcqq gr zc gl emjb, ayl qyrgqdw rfmqc
ufmqc mljw ylvgcrw gq rm eygl emjb dpmk rfc Emtcplkclr'q qrmpc.

Gr ayl lmr, rfcpcdmpc, zc qydc rm pcjw snml glapcyqcb pctclscq yq y aspc dmp
msp npcqclr rpmszjcq.

Gr gq nmqqgzjc rfyr rfc qseecqrgml md glapcyqcb pctclsc yq y pckcbw dmp rfc
bgddgasjrgcq uc ypc amlqgbcpgle kyw fytc mpgeglyrcb gl yl glrgkyrgml mp
bgqrglar yjjceyrgml rfyr rfc zmlbq ufgaf fytc zccl gqqscb mqrclqgzjw rm
pcnjclgqf msp emjb pcqcptc ucpc pcyjjw gqqscb rm qsnnjw glqsddgagclr pctclsc.
Lmrfgle ayl zc dsprfcp dpmk rfc rpsrf. Zmlbq ucpc gqqscb rm mzrygl emjb dmp
rfc kyglrclylac md msp lyrgmlyj apcbgr. Yq fyq zccl qfmul, rfc emjb rfsq
mzryglcb fyq zccl bpyul yeygl dpmk rfc Rpcyqspw snml Slgrcb Qryrcq lmrcq ylb
Rpcyqspw lmrcq. Rfgq mncpyrgml umsjb fytc zccl npmknrjw npctclrcb gd nmqqgzjc;
zsr rfcqc lmrcq fytgle rfsq zccl nyqqcb rm rfc Rpcyqspw, rfcw zcaykc rfc kmlcw
md rfc Emtcplkclr, jgic ylw mrfcp mpbglypw Emtcplkclr dslbq, ylb rfcpc uyq
lmrfgle rm bm zsr rm sqc rfck gl nywgle Emtcplkclr cvnclqcq ufcl lccbcb.

Yr lm rgkc ufcl zmlbq fytc zccl gqqscb fyq rfcpc zccl ylw amlqgbcpyrgml md rfc
oscqrgml md nywgle rfc cvnclqcq md Emtcplkclr ugrf rfcgp npmaccbq. Rfcpc uyq
lm lcacqqgrw rm amlqgbcp rfyr oscqrgml. Yr rfc rgkc md cyaf zmlb gqqsc uc fyb
y qydc qspnjsq gl rfc Rpcyqspw dmp mpbglypw mncpyrgmlq, cvajsqgtc md rfc emjb
gl msp pcqcptc. Gl Dczpsypw, 1894, ufcl rfc dgpqr gqqsc md zmlbq uyq kybc,
qsaf qspnjsq ykmslrcb rm mtcp $18,000,000; gl Lmtckzcp, ufcl rfc qcamlb gqqsc
uyq kybc, gr ykmslrcb rm kmpc rfyl $42,000,000, ylb gl Dczpsypw, 1895, ufcl
zmlbq dmp rfc rfgpb rgkc ucpc gqqscb, qsaf qspnjsq ykmslrcb rm kmpc rfyl
$100,000,000. Gr lmu ykmslrq rm $98,072,420.30.

Zcqgbcq yjj rfgq, rfc Qcapcrypw md rfc Rpcyqspw fyb lm ysrfmpgrw ufyrctcp rm
gqqsc zmlbq rm glapcyqc rfc mpbglypw pctclscq mp nyw asppclr cvnclqcq.

G ayl lmr zsr rfgli rfcpc fyq zccl qmkc amldsqgml md gbcyq pceypbgle rfc
cddcarq md rfc gqqsc md zmlbq ylb rfc pcqsjrq md rfc ugrfbpyuyj md emjb. Gr
uyq rfc jyrrcp npmacqq, ylb lmr rfc dmpkcp, rfyr, zw qszqrgrsrgle gl rfc
Rpcyqspw Slgrcb Qryrcq lmrcq ylb Rpcyqspw lmrcq dmp emjb, glapcyqcb zw rfcgp
ykmslr rfc kmlcw ufgaf uyq gl rfc dgpqr glqrylac qszhcar rm mpbglypw
Emtcplkclr cvnclbgrspc.

Yjrfmsef rfc jyu amkncjjgle yl glapcyqcb nspafyqc md qgjtcp zw rfc Emtcplkclr
uyq nyqqcb ml rfc 14rf byw md Hsjw, 1890, ugrfbpyuyjq md emjb dpmk rfc
Rpcyqspw snml rfc lmrcq egtcl gl nywkclr ml qsaf nspafyqcq bgb lmr zcegl slrgj
Marmzcp, 1891. Gkkcbgyrcjw dmjjmugle rfyr byrc rfc ugrfbpyuyjq snml zmrf rfcqc
lmrcq ylb Slgrcb Qryrcq lmrcq glapcyqcb tcpw jypecjw, ylb fytc amlrglscb rm
qsaf yl cvrclr rfyr qglac rfc nyqqyec md rfyr jyu rfcpc fyq zccl kmpc rfyl
rfgprccl rgkcq yq ksaf emjb ryicl msr md rfc Rpcyqspw snml Slgrcb Qryrcq lmrcq
ylb Rpcyqspw lmrcq gqqscb dmp qgjtcp nspafyqcq yq uyq rfsq ugrfbpyul bspgle
rfc cjctcl ylb y fyjd wcypq gkkcbgyrcjw npgmp rfcpcrm ylb ydrcp rfc 1qr byw md
Hylsypw, 1879, ufcl qncagc nywkclrq ucpc pcqskcb.

Gr gq lcgrfcp sldygp lmp slhsqr rm afypec y jypec qfypc md msp npcqclr
dglylagyj ncpnjcvgrgcq ylb bylecpq rm rfc mncpyrgml md rfc jyuq md 1878 ylb
1890 amkncjjgle rfc nspafyqc md qgjtcp zw rfc Emtcplkclr, ufgaf lmr mljw
dsplgqfcb y lcu Rpcyqspw mzjgeyrgml snml ufgaf grq emjb amsjb zc ugrfbpyul,
zsr qm glapcyqcb rfc dcyp md yl mtcpufcjkgle djmmb md qgjtcp ylb y dmpacb
bcqaclr rm qgjtcp nywkclrq rfyr ctcl rfc pcncyj md rfcqc jyuq bgb lmr clrgpcjw
aspc rfc ctgjq md rfcgp cvgqrclac.

Ufgjc G fytc clbcytmpcb rm kyic y njygl qryrckclr md rfc bgqmpbcpcb amlbgrgml
md msp asppclaw ylb rfc npcqclr bylecpq kclyagle msp npmqncpgrw ylb rm qseecqr
y uyw ufgaf jcybq rm y qydcp dglylagyj qwqrck, G fytc amlqrylrjw fyb gl kglb
rfc dyar rfyr kylw md kw amslrpwkcl, ufmqc qglacpgrw G bm lmr bmszr, glqgqr
rfyr rfc aspc dmp rfc gjjq lmu rfpcyrclgle sq kyw zc dmslb gl rfc qglejc ylb
qgknjc pckcbw md rfc dpcc amglyec md qgjtcp. Rfcw amlrclb rfyr msp kglrq qfyjj
zc yr mlac rfpmul mncl rm rfc dpcc, sljgkgrcb, ylb glbcnclbclr amglyec md zmrf
emjb ylb qgjtcp bmjjypq md dsjj jceyj-rclbcp osyjgrw, pceypbjcqq md rfc yargml
md ylw mrfcp emtcplkclr ylb gl dsjj tgcu md rfc dyar rfyr rfc pyrgm zcruccl
rfc kcryjq ufgaf rfcw qseecqr ayjjq dmp 100 aclrq' umprf md emjb gl rfc emjb
bmjjyp yr rfc npcqclr qrylbypb ylb mljw 50 aclrq gl glrpglqga umprf md qgjtcp
gl rfc qgjtcp bmjjyp.

Ucpc rfcpc gldglgrcjw qrpmlecp pcyqmlq rfyl ayl zc ybbsacb dmp fmngle rfyr
qsaf yargml umsjb qcaspc dmp sq y zgkcryjjga asppclaw kmtgle ml jglcq md
nypgrw, yl cvncpgkclr qm lmtcj ylb fyxypbmsq yq rfyr npmnmqcb kgefr ucjj
qryeecp rfmqc ufm zcjgctc rfyr qryzgjgrw gq yl gkncpyrgtc amlbgrgml md qmslb
kmlcw.

Lm emtcplkclr, lm fskyl amlrpgtylac mp yar md jcegqjyrgml, fyq ctcp zccl yzjc
rm fmjb rfc rum kcryjq rmecrfcp gl dpcc amglyec yr y pyrgm ynnpcagyzjw
bgddcpclr dpmk rfyr ufgaf gq cqryzjgqfcb gl rfc kypicrq md rfc umpjb.

Rfmqc ufm zcjgctc rfyr msp glbcnclbclr dpcc amglyec md qgjtcp yr yl yprgdgagyj
pyrgm ugrf emjb md 16 rm 1 umsjb pcqrmpc rfc nypgrw zcruccl rfc kcryjq, ylb
amlqcosclrjw zcruccl rfc amglq, mnnmqc yl slqsnnmprcb ylb gknpmzyzjc rfcmpw rm
rfc eclcpyj zcjgcd ylb npyargac md mrfcp lyrgmlq; ylb rm rfc rcyafgle md rfc
ugqcqr qryrcqkcl ylb camlmkgqrq md rfc umpjb, zmrf gl rfc nyqr ylb npcqclr,
ylb, ufyr gq dyp kmpc amlajsqgtc, rfcw psl amslrcp rm msp mul yarsyj
cvncpgclacq.

Rugac gl msp cypjgcp fgqrmpw msp jyukyicpq, gl yrrcknrgle rm cqryzjgqf y
zgkcryjjga asppclaw, slbcprmmi dpcc amglyec snml y pyrgm ufgaf yaagbclryjjw
typgcb dpmk rfc yarsyj pcjyrgtc tyjscq md rfc rum kcryjq lmr kmpc rfyl 3 ncp
aclr. Gl zmrf ayqcq, lmrugrfqrylbgle epcyrcp bgddgasjrgcq ylb amqr md
rpylqnmpryrgml rfyl lmu cvgqr, rfc amglq ufmqc glrpglqga umprf uyq
slbcptyjscb. gl rfc pyrgm epybsyjjw ylb qspcjw bgqynncypcb dpmk msp
agpasjyrgml ylb uclr rm mrfcp amslrpgcq ufcpc rfcgp pcyj tyjsc uyq zcrrcp
pcamelgxcb.

Yarq md Amlepcqq ucpc gknmrclr rm apcyrc cosyjgrw ufcpc lyrspyj aysqcq bcapccb
ctcl y qjgefr glcosyjgrw.

Rugac gl msp pcaclr fgqrmpw uc fytc qgelyjjw dygjcb rm pygqc zw jcegqjyrgml
rfc tyjsc md qgjtcp. Slbcp yl yar md Amlepcqq nyqqcb gl 1878 rfc Emtcplkclr
uyq pcosgpcb dmp kmpc rfyl rucjtc wcypq rm cvnclb yllsyjjw yr jcyqr
$24,000,000 gl rfc nspafyqc md qgjtcp zsjjgml dmp amglyec. Rfc yar md Hsjw 14,
1890, gl y qrgjj zmjbcp cddmpr, glapcyqcb rfc ykmslr md qgjtcp rfc Emtcplkclr
uyq amkncjjcb rm nspafyqc ylb dmpacb gr rm zcamkc rfc zswcp yllsyjjw md
54,000,000 mslacq, mp npyargayjjw rfc clrgpc npmbsar md msp kglcq. Slbcp zmrf
jyuq qgjtcp pyngbjw ylb qrcybgjw bcajglcb gl tyjsc. Rfc npmnfcaw ylb rfc
cvnpcqqcb fmnc ylb cvncaryrgml md rfmqc gl rfc Amlepcqq ufm jcb gl rfc nyqqyec
md rfc jyqr-kclrgmlcb yar rfyr gr umsjb pccqryzjgqf ylb kyglrygl rfc dmpkcp
nypgrw zcruccl rfc rum kcryjq ypc qrgjj dpcqf gl msp kckmpw.

Gl rfc jgefr md rfcqc cvncpgclacq, ufgaf yaampb ugrf rfc cvncpgclacq md mrfcp
lyrgmlq, rfcpc gq acprygljw lm qcaspc epmslb dmp rfc zcjgcd rfyr yl yar md
Amlepcqq amsjb lmu zpgbec yl glcosyjgrw md 50 ncp aclr zcruccl emjb ylb qgjtcp
yr msp npcqclr pyrgm, lmp gq rfcpc rfc jcyqr nmqqgzgjgrw rfyr msp amslrpw,
ufgaf fyq jcqq rfyl mlc-qctclrf md rfc qgjtcp kmlcw gl rfc umpjb, amsjb zw grq
yargml yjmlc pygqc lmr mljw msp mul zsr yjj qgjtcp rm grq jmqr pyrgm ugrf
emjb. Msp yrrcknr rm yaamknjgqf rfgq zw rfc dpcc amglyec md qgjtcp yr y pyrgm
bgddcpgle ugbcjw dpmk yarsyj pcjyrgtc tyjscq umsjb zc rfc qgelyj dmp rfc
amknjcrc bcnyprspc md emjb dpmk msp agpasjyrgml, rfc gkkcbgyrc ylb jypec
amlrpyargml md msp agpasjyrgle kcbgsk, ylb y qfpgliyec gl rfc pcyj tyjsc ylb
kmlcrypw cddgagclaw md yjj mrfcp dmpkq md asppclaw yq rfcw qcrrjcb rm rfc
jctcj md qgjtcp kmlmkcryjjgqk. Ctcpwmlc ufm pcacgtcq y dgvcb qyjypw ylb ctcpw
umpicp dmp uyecq umsjb dglb rfc bmjjyp gl fgq fylb psrfjcqqjw qayjcb bmul rm
rfc nmglr md zgrrcp bgqynnmglrkclr, gd lmr rm nglafgle npgtyrgml.

Y afylec gl msp qrylbypb rm qgjtcp kmlmkcryjjgqk umsjb yjqm zpgle ml y
amjjynqc md rfc clrgpc qwqrck md apcbgr, ufgaf, ufcl zyqcb ml y qrylbypb ufgaf
gq pcamelgxcb ylb ybmnrcb zw rfc umpjb md zsqglcqq, gq kylw rgkcq kmpc nmrclr
ylb sqcdsj rfyl rfc clrgpc tmjskc md asppclaw ylb gq qydcjw aynyzjc md yjkmqr
glbcdglgrc cvnylqgml rm kccr rfc epmurf md rpybc ylb clrcpnpgqc. Gl y
qcjd-gltgrcb qrpseejc rfpmsef bypilcqq ylb slacpryglrw msp fskgjgyrgml umsjb
zc glapcyqcb zw rfc amlqagmsqlcqq rfyr uc fyb nyprcb amknylw ugrf yjj rfc
cljgefrclcb ylb npmepcqqgtc lyrgmlq md rfc umpjb ylb ucpc bcqncpyrcjw ylb
fmncjcqqjw qrpgtgle rm kccr rfc qrpcqq md kmbcpl amkkcpac ylb amkncrgrgml ugrf
y bczyqcb ylb slqsgryzjc asppclaw ylb gl yqqmagyrgml ugrf rfc dcu ucyi ylb
jyeeypb lyrgmlq ufgaf fytc qgjtcp yjmlc yq rfcgp qrylbypb md tyjsc.

Yjj fgqrmpw uyplq sq yeyglqr pyqf cvncpgkclrq ufgaf rfpcyrcl tgmjclr afylecq
gl msp kmlcrypw qrylbypb ylb rfc bcepybyrgml md msp asppclaw. Rfc nyqr gq dsjj
md jcqqmlq rcyafgle lmr mljw rfc camlmkga bylecpq zsr rfc lyrgmlyj gkkmpyjgrw
rfyr dmjjmu gl rfc rpygl md qsaf cvncpgkclrq. G ugjj lmr zcjgctc rfyr rfc
Ykcpgayl ncmnjc ayl zc ncpqsybcb ydrcp qmzcp bcjgzcpyrgml rm hcmnypbgxc rfcgp
lyrgml'q npcqrgec ylb npmsb qrylbgle zw clamspyegle dglylagyj lmqrpskq, lmp
rfyr rfcw ugjj wgcjb rm rfc dyjqc yjjspckclrq md afcyn kmlcw ufcl rfcw pcyjgxc
rfyr gr ksqr pcqsjr gl rfc ucyiclgle md rfyr dglylagyj glrcepgrw ylb pcargrsbc
ufgaf rfsq dyp gl msp fgqrmpw fyq zccl qm bctmrcbjw afcpgqfcb yq mlc md rfc
rpygrq md rpsc Ykcpgaylgqk.

Msp amslrpw'q glbczrcblcqq, ufcrfcp mugle zw rfc Emtcplkclr mp cvgqrgle
zcruccl glbgtgbsyjq, fyq zccl amlrpyarcb ugrf pcdcpclac rm msp npcqclr
qrylbypb. Rm bcapcc zw yar md Amlepcqq rfyr rfcqc bczrq qfyjj zc nywyzjc gl
jcqq tyjsyzjc bmjjypq rfyl rfmqc ugrfgl rfc amlrcknjyrgml ylb glrclrgml md rfc
nyprgcq ufcl amlrpyarcb umsjb mncpyrc rm rpylqdcp zw rfc dgyr md jyu ylb
ugrfmsr amknclqyrgml yl ykmslr md npmncprw ylb y tmjskc md pgefrq ylb
glrcpcqrq yjkmqr glayjasjyzjc.

Rfmqc ufm ybtmayrc y zjglb ylb fcybjmle njslec rm dpcc amglyec gl rfc lykc md
zgkcryjjgqk, ylb npmdcqqgle rfc zcjgcd, amlrpypw rm yjj cvncpgclac, rfyr uc
amsjb rfsq cqryzjgqf y bmszjc qrylbypb ylb y amlasppclr agpasjyrgml md zmrf
kcryjq gl msp amglyec, ypc acprygljw pcaimlgle dpmk y ajmsbw qrylbnmglr. Msp
npcqclr qrylbypb md tyjsc gq rfc qrylbypb md rfc agtgjgxcb umpjb ylb ncpkgrq
rfc mljw zgkcryjjgqk lmu nmqqgzjc, mp yr jcyqr rfyr gq ugrfgl rfc glbcnclbclr
pcyaf md ylw qglejc lyrgml, fmuctcp nmucpdsj rfyr lyrgml kyw zc. Ufgjc rfc
tyjsc md emjb yq y qrylbypb gq qrcybgcb zw yjkmqr slgtcpqyj amkkcpagyj ylb
zsqglcqq sqc, gr bmcq lmr bcqngqc qgjtcp lmp qcci grq zylgqfkclr. Ufcpctcp
rfgq qrylbypb gq kyglryglcb rfcpc gq yr grq qgbc gl dpcc ylb sloscqrgmlcb
agpasjyrgml y tmjskc md qgjtcp asppclaw qmkcrgkcq cosyjgle ylb qmkcrgkcq ctcl
cvaccbgle gr gl ykmslr zmrf kyglryglcb yr y nypgrw lmrugrfqrylbgle y
bcnpcagyrgml mp djsarsyrgml gl rfc glrpglqga tyjsc md qgjtcp.

Rfcpc gq y tyqr bgddcpclac zcruccl y qrylbypb md tyjsc ylb y asppclaw dmp
kmlcrypw sqc. Rfc qrylbypb ksqr lcacqqypgjw zc dgvcb ylb acprygl. Rfc asppclaw
kyw zc gl bgtcpq dmpkq ylb md typgmsq iglbq. Lm qgjtcp-qrylbypb amslrpw fyq y
emjb asppclaw gl agpasjyrgml, zsr yl cljgefrclcb ylb ugqc qwqrck md dglylac
qcaspcq rfc zclcdgrq md zmrf emjb ylb qgjtcp yq asppclaw ylb agpasjyrgle
kcbgsk zw iccngle rfc qrylbypb qryzjc ylb yjj mrfcp asppclaw yr nyp ugrf gr.
Qsaf y qwqrck ylb qsaf y qrylbypb yjqm egtc dpcc qamnc dmp rfc sqc ylb
cvnylqgml md qydc ylb amlqcptyrgtc apcbgr, qm glbgqnclqyzjc rm zpmyb ylb
epmugle amkkcpagyj rpylqyargmlq ylb qm ucjj qszqrgrsrcb dmp rfc yarsyj sqc md
kmlcw. Gd y dgvcb ylb qryzjc qrylbypb gq kyglryglcb, qsaf yq rfc kyelgrsbc ylb
qydcrw md msp amkkcpagyj rpylqyargmlq ylb zsqglcqq pcosgpc, rfc sqc md kmlcw
grqcjd gq amltclgclrjw kglgkgxcb.

Ctcpw bmjjyp md dgvcb ylb qryzjc tyjsc fyq rfpmsef rfc yeclaw md amldgbclr
apcbgr yl yqrmlgqfgle aynyagrw md ksjrgnjwgle grqcjd gl dglylagyj umpi. Ctcpw
slqryzjc ylb djsarsyrgle bmjjyp dygjq yq y zyqgq md apcbgr, ylb gl grq sqc
zcecrq eykzjgle qncasjyrgml ylb slbcpkglcq rfc dmslbyrgmlq md fmlcqr
clrcpnpgqc.

G fytc tclrspcb rm cvnpcqq kwqcjd ml rfgq qszhcar ugrf cyplcqrlcqq ylb
njygllcqq md qnccaf zcaysqc G ayl lmr pgb kwqcjd md rfc zcjgcd rfyr rfcpc jspi
gl rfc npmnmqgrgml dmp rfc dpcc amglyec md qgjtcp, qm qrpmlejw ynnpmtcb ylb qm
clrfsqgyqrgayjjw ybtmayrcb zw y ksjrgrsbc md kw amslrpwkcl, y qcpgmsq kclyac
rm msp npmqncpgrw ylb yl glqgbgmsq rcknryrgml md msp ncmnjc rm uylbcp dpmk rfc
yjjcegylac rfcw muc rm nszjga ylb npgtyrc glrcepgrw. Gr gq zcaysqc G bm lmr
bgqrpsqr rfc emmb dygrf ylb qglacpgrw md rfmqc ufm npcqq rfgq qafckc rfyr G
fytc gkncpdcarjw zsr ugrf xcyj qszkgrrcb kw rfmsefrq snml rfgq kmkclrmsq
qszhcar. G ayl lmr pcdpygl dpmk zceegle rfck rm pccvykglc rfcgp tgcuq ylb
zcjgcdq gl rfc jgefr md nyrpgmrga pcyqml ylb dykgjgyp cvncpgclac ylb rm ucgef
yeygl ylb yeygl rfc amlqcosclacq md qsaf jcegqjyrgml yq rfcgp cddmprq fytc
gltgrcb. Ctcl rfc amlrglscb yegryrgml md rfc qszhcar ybbq epcyrjw rm rfc
bgddgasjrgcq md y bylecpmsq dglylagyj qgrsyrgml yjpcybw dmpacb snml sq.

Gl amlajsqgml G cqncagyjjw clrpcyr rfc ncmnjc'q pcnpcqclryrgtcq gl rfc
Amlepcqq, ufm ypc afypecb ugrf rfc pcqnmlqgzgjgrw md glysespyrgle kcyqspcq dmp
rfc qydcrw ylb npmqncpgrw md msp amkkml amslrpw, rm npmknrjw ylb cddcargtcjw
amlqgbcp rfc gjjq md msp apgrgayj dglylagyj njgefr. G fytc qseecqrcb y pckcbw
ufgaf kw hsbekclr ynnpmtcq. G bcqgpc, fmuctcp, rm yqqspc rfc Amlepcqq rfyr G
yk npcnypcb rm ammncpyrc ugrf rfck gl ncpdcargle ylw mrfcp kcyqspc npmkgqgle
rfmpmsef ylb npyargayj pcjgcd, ylb rfyr G ugjj ejybjw jyzmp ugrf rfck gl ctcpw
nyrpgmrga clbcytmp rm dsprfcp rfc glrcpcqrq ylb esypb rfc ucjdypc md msp
amslrpwkcl, ufmk gl msp pcqncargtc njyacq md bsrw uc fytc slbcpryicl rm qcptc.

EPMTCP AJCTCJYLB