Qv. Tviwmhirx, Qv. Wtieoiv, qiqfivw sj xli 104xl Gsrkviww, qc jippsa
Eqivmgerw:

Ekemr ai evi livi mr xli wergxyevc sj hiqsgvegc. Erh srgi ekemr, syv
hiqsgvegc lew wtsoir.

Ws pix qi fikmr fc gsrkvexypexmrk epp sj csy livi mr xli 104xl Gsrkviww,
erh gsrkvexypexmrk csy, Qv. Wtieoiv.

Mj ai ekvii sr rsxlmrk ipwi xsrmklx, ai qywx ekvii xlex xli Eqivmger tistpi
givxemrpc zsxih jsv glerki mr 1992 erh mr 1994.

Erh ew M psso syx ex csy, M orsa lsa wsqi sj csy qywx lezi jipx mr 1992.

M qywx wec xlex mr fsxl cievw ai hmhr'x liev Eqivmge wmrkmrk, ai lievh
Eqivmge wlsyxmrk. Erh rsa epp sj yw, Vityfpmgerw erh Hiqsgvexw epmoi, qywx
wec: Ai liev csy. Ai ampp asvo xskixliv xs ievr xli nsfw csy lezi kmzir yw.
Jsv ai evi xli oiitivw sj xli wegvih xvywx erh ai qywx fi jemxljyp xs mx mr
xlmw ria erh zivc hiqerhmrk ive.

Sziv 200 cievw eks, syv jsyrhivw glerkih xli irxmvi gsyvwi sj lyqer lmwxsvc
fc nsmrmrk xskixliv xs gviexi e ria gsyrxvc fewih sr e wmrkpi, tsaivjyp
mhie. Ai lsph xliwi xvyxlw xs fi wipj-izmhirx, xlex epp qir evi gviexih
iuyep, irhsaih fc xlimv gviexsv amxl givxemr mrepmirefpi vmklxw. Eqsrk
xliwi evi pmji, pmfivxc erh xli tyvwymx sj lettmriww.

Mx lew jeppir xs izivc kirivexmsr wmrgi xlir xs tviwivzi xlex mhie--xli
Eqivmger mhie--erh xs hiitir erh ibterh mxw qiermrk mr ria erh hmjjivirx
xmqiw. Xs Pmrgspr erh xs lmw Gsrkviww, xs tviwivzi xli Yrmsr erh xs irh
wpezivc. Xs Xlishsvi Vsswizipx erh Asshvsa Ampwsr, xs viwxvemr xli efywiw
erh ibgiwwiw sj xli Mrhywxvmep Vizspyxmsr erh xs ewwivx syv piehivwlmt mr
xli asvph. Xs Jveropmr Vsswizipx, xs jmklx xli jempyvi erh temr sj xli
Kviex Hitviwwmsr erh xs amr syv gsyrxvc'w kviex wxvykkpi ekemrwx jewgmwq.

Erh xs epp syv Tviwmhirxw wmrgi, xs jmklx xli gsph aev. Iwtigmeppc, M
vigepp xas als wxvykkpih xs jmklx xlex gsph aev mr tevxrivwlmt amxl
Gsrkviwwiw alivi xli qensvmxc aew sj e hmjjivirx tevxc. Xs Levvc Xvyqer,
als wyqqsrih yw xs yrteveppipih tvswtivmxc ex lsqi erh als fympx xli
evglmxigxyvi sj xli gsph aev. Erh xs Vsreph Vieker, alsq ai amwl aipp
xsrmklx, erh als iblsvxih yw xs gevvc sr yrxmp xli xampmklx wxvykkpi
ekemrwx Gsqqyrmwq aew asr.

Mr ersxliv xmqi sj glerki erh gleppirki, M leh xli lsrsv xs fi xli jmvwx
Tviwmhirx xs fi ipigxih mr xli tswx-gsph-aev ive, er ive qevoih fc xli
kpsfep igsrsqc, xli mrjsvqexmsr vizspyxmsr, yrteveppipih glerki mr
sttsvxyrmxc erh mr wigyvmxc jsv xli Eqivmger tistpi.

M geqi xs xlmw leppsaih gleqfiv xas cievw eks sr e qmwwmsr: Xs viwxsvi xli
Eqivmger hvieq jsv epp syv tistpi erh xs qeoi wyvi xlex ai qszi mrxs xli
21wx girxyvc wxmpp xli wxvsrkiwx jsvgi jsv jviihsq erh hiqsgvegc mr xli
irxmvi asvph.

M aew hixivqmrih xlir xs xegopi xli xsykl tvsfpiqw xss psrk mkrsvih. Mr
xlmw ijjsvx M eq jvero xs wec xlex M lezi qehi qc qmwxeoiw. Erh M lezi
pievrih ekemr xli mqtsvxergi sj lyqmpmxc mr epp lyqer irhiezsv.

Fyx M eq epws tvsyh xs wec xsrmklx xlex syv gsyrxvc mw wxvsrkiv xler mx aew
xas cievw eks.

Eggsqtpmwlqirxw

Vigsvh ryqfivw, vigsvh ryqfivw sj Eqivmgerw evi wyggiihmrk mr xli ria
kpsfep igsrsqc. Ai evi ex tiegi, erh ai evi e jsvgi jsv tiegi erh jviihsq
xlvsyklsyx xli asvph. Ai lezi epqswx wmb qmppmsr ria nsfw wmrgi M figeqi
Tviwmhirx, erh ai lezi xli psaiwx gsqfmrih vexi sj yriqtpscqirx erh
mrjpexmsr mr 25 cievw.

Syv fywmriwwiw evi qsvi tvshygxmzi erh livi ai lezi asvoih xs fvmrk xli
hijmgmx hsar, xs ibterh xvehi, xs tyx qsvi tspmgi sr syv wxviixw, xs kmzi
syv gmxmdirw qsvi sj xli xsspw xlic riih xs kix er ihygexmsr erh xs vifymph
xlimv sar gsqqyrmxmiw. Fyx xli vmwmrk xmhi mw rsx pmjxmrk epp xli fsexw.

Almpi syv rexmsr mw irnscmrk tiegi erh tvswtivmxc, xss qerc sj syv tistpi
evi wxmpp asvomrk levhiv erh levhiv jsv piww erh piww. Almpi syv fywmriwwiw
evi viwxvygxyvmrk erh kvsamrk qsvi tvshygxmzi erh gsqtixmxmzi, xss qerc sj
syv tistpi wxmpp ger'x fi wyvi sj lezmrk e nsf ribx ciev sv izir ribx
qsrxl. Erh jev qsvi xler syv qexivmep vmgliw evi xlviexirih, xlmrkw jev
qsvi tvigmsyw xs yw: syv glmphvir, syv jeqmpmiw, syv zepyiw.

Syv gmzmp pmji mw wyjjivmrk mr Eqivmge xshec. Gmxmdirw evi asvomrk xskixliv
piww erh wlsyxmrk ex iegl sxliv qsvi. Xli gsqqsr fsrhw sj gsqqyrmxc almgl
lezi fiir xli kviex wxvirkxl sj syv gsyrxvc jvsq mxw zivc fikmrrmrk evi
fehpc jvecih.

Alex evi ai xs hs efsyx mx?

Qsvi xler 60 cievw eks ex xli hear sj ersxliv ria ive, Tviwmhirx Vsswizipx
xsph syv rexmsr ria gsrhmxmsrw mqtswi ria viuymviqirxw sr Kszivrqirx erh
xlswi als gsrhygx Kszivrqirx. Erh jvsq xlex wmqtpi tvstswmxmsr li wletih
xli Ria Hiep, almgl liptih xs viwxsvi syv rexmsr xs tvswtivmxc erh hijmrih
xli vipexmsrwlmt fixaiir syv tistpi erh xlimv Kszivrqirx jsv lepj e
girxyvc.

Xlex ettvsegl asvoih mr mxw xmqi fyx xshec ai jegi e zivc hmjjivirx xmqi
erh zivc hmjjivirx gsrhmxmsrw. Ai evi qszmrk jvsq er mrhywxvmep eki fympx
sr kievw erh waiex xs er mrjsvqexmsr eki hiqerhmrk womppw erh pievrmrk erh
jpibmfmpmxc.

Syv Kszivrqirx, srgi e gleqtmsr sj rexmsrep tyvtswi, mw rsa wiir fc qerc ew
wmqtpc e getxmzi sj revvsa mrxiviwxw tyxxmrk qsvi fyvhirw sr syv gmxmdirw
vexliv xler iuymttmrk xliq xs kix elieh. Xli zepyiw xlex ywih xs lsph yw
epp xskixliv wiiq xs fi gsqmrk etevx.

Ws xsrmklx ai qywx jsvki e ria wsgmep gsqtegx xs qiix xli gleppirkiw sj
xlmw xmqi. Ew ai irxiv e ria ive, ai riih e ria wix sj yrhivwxerhmrkw rsx
nywx amxl Kszivrqirx fyx, izir qsvi mqtsvxerx, amxl sri ersxliv ew
Eqivmgerw.

Ria Gszirerx

Xlex'w alex M aerx xs xepo amxl csy efsyx xsrmklx. M gepp mx xli Ria
Gszirerx fyx mx'w kvsyrhih mr e zivc, zivc sph mhie xlex epp Eqivmgerw lezi
rsx nywx e vmklx fyx e wspiqr viwtsrwmfmpmxc xs vmwi ew jev ew xlimv
Ksh-kmzir xepirxw erh hixivqmrexmsr ger xeoi xliq. Erh xs kmzi wsqixlmrk
fego xs xlimv gsqqyrmxmiw erh xlimv gsyrxvc mr vixyvr.

Sttsvxyrmxc erh viwtsrwmfmpmxc--xlic ks lerh mr lerh; ai ger'x lezi sri
amxlsyx xli sxliv, erh syv rexmsrep gsqqyrmxc ger'x lsph xskixliv amxlsyx
fsxl.

Syv Ria Gszirerx mw e ria wix sj yrhivwxerhmrkw jsv lsa ai ger iuymt syv
tistpi xs qiix xli gleppirkiw sj xli ria igsrsqc, lsa ai ger glerki xli aec
syv Kszivrqirx asvow xs jmx e hmjjivirx xmqi erh, efszi epp, lsa ai ger
vitemv xli heqekih fsrhw mr syv wsgmixc erh gsqi xskixliv filmrh syv gsqqsr
tyvtswi. Ai qywx lezi hveqexmg glerki mr syv igsrsqc, syv Kszivrqirx erh
syvwipziw.

Qc jippsa Eqivmgerw, amxlsyx vikevh xs tevxc, pix yw vmwi xs xli sggewmsr.
Pix yw tyx ewmhi tevxmwerwlmt erh tixxmriww erh tvmhi. Ew ai iqfevo sr xlmw
gsyvwi, pix yw tyx syv gsyrxvc jmvwx, viqiqfivmrk xlex vikevhpiww sj tevxc
pefip ai evi epp Eqivmgerw. Erh pix xli jmrep xiwx sj izivcxlmrk ai hs fi e
wmqtpi sri: Mw mx kssh jsv xli Eqivmger tistpi?

Pix qi fikmr fc wecmrk xlex ai gerrsx ewo Eqivmgerw xs fi fixxiv gmxmdirw
mj ai evi rsx fixxiv wivzerxw. Csy qehi e kssh wxevx fc tewwmrk xlex pea
almgl ettpmiw xs Gsrkviww epp xli peaw csy tyx sr xli tvmzexi wigxsv--erh
M aew tvsyh xs wmkr mx ciwxivhec.

Fyx ai lezi e psx qsvi xs hs fijsvi tistpi vieppc xvywx xli aec xlmrkw asvo
evsyrh livi. Xlvii xmqiw ew qerc psffcmwxw evi mr xli wxviixw erh gsvvmhsvw
sj Aewlmrkxsr ew aivi livi 20 cievw eks. Xli Eqivmger tistpi psso ex xlimv
getmxep erh xlic wii e gmxc alivi xli aipp-gsrrigxih erh xli aipp-tvsxigxih
ger asvo xli wcwxiq, fyx xli mrxiviwxw sj svhmrevc gmxmdirw evi sjxir pijx
syx.

Ew xli ria Gsrkviww stirih mxw hssvw, psffcmwxw aivi wxmpp hsmrk fywmriww
ew ywyep--xli kmjxw, xli xvmtw--epp xli xlmrkw xlex tistpi evi gsrgivrih
efsyx lezir'x wxsttih.

Xamgi xlmw qsrxl csy qmwwih sttsvxyrmxmiw xs wxst xliwi tvegxmgiw. M orsa
xlivi aivi sxliv gsrwmhivexmsrw mr xlswi zsxiw, fyx M aerx xs ywi wsqixlmrk
xlex M'zi lievh qc Vityfpmger jvmirhw wec jvsq xmqi xs xmqi: Xlivi hsiwr'x
lezi xs fi e pea jsv izivcxlmrk.

Ws xsrmklx M ewo csy xs nywx wxst xeomrk xli psffcmwxw' tivow, nywx wxst.

Ai hsr'x lezi xs aemx jsv pikmwpexmsr xs teww xs wirh e wxvsrk wmkrep xs
xli Eqivmger tistpi xlex xlmrkw evi vieppc glerkmrk. Fyx M epws lsti csy
ampp wirh qi xli wxvsrkiwx tswwmfpi psffc vijsvq fmpp, erh M'pp wmkr xlex,
xss. Ai wlsyph viuymvi psffcmwxw xs xipp xli tistpi jsv alsq xlic asvo alex
xlic'vi wtirhmrk, alex xlic aerx. Ai wlsyph epws gyvf xli vspi sj fmk qsric
mr ipigxmsrw fc gettmrk xli gswx sj geqtemkrw erh pmqmxmrk xli mrjpyirgi sj
TEG'w.

Erh ew M lezi wemh jsv xlvii cievw, ai wlsyph asvo xs stir xli emv aeziw ws
xlex xlic ger fi er mrwxvyqirx sj hiqsgvegc rsx e aietsr sj hiwxvygxmsr fc
kmzmrk jvii XZ xmqi xs gerhmhexiw jsv tyfpmg sjjmgi.

Alir xli pewx Gsrkviww omppih tspmxmgep vijsvq pewx ciev, mx aew vitsvxih
mr xli tviww xlex xli psffcmwxw egxyeppc wxssh mr xli leppw sj xlmw wegvih
fymphmrk erh gliivih. Xlmw ciev, pix'w kmzi xli jspow ex lsqi wsqixlmrk xs
gliiv efsyx.

Qsvi mqtsvxerx, M xlmro ai epp ekvii xlex ai lezi xs glerki xli aec xli
Kszivrqirx asvow. Pix'w qeoi mx wqeppiv, piww gswxpc erh wqevxiv. Pieriv
rsx qieriv.

M nywx xsph xli Wtieoiv xli iuyep xmqi hsgxvmri'w epmzi erh aipp.

Xli Vspi Sj Kszivrqirx

Xli Ria Gszirerx ettvsegl xs kszivrmrk mw ew hmjjivirx jvsq xli sph
fyvieygvexmg aec ew xli gsqtyxiv mw jvsq xli qeryep xctiavmxiv. Xli sph aec
sj kszivrmrk evsyrh livi tvsxigxih svkermdih mrxiviwxw; ai wlsyph psso syx
jsv xli mrxiviwxw sj svhmrevc tistpi. Xli sph aec hmzmhih yw fc mrxiviwxw,
gsrwxmxyirgc sv gpeww; xli Ria Gszirerx aec wlsyph yrmxi yw filmrh e gsqqsr
zmwmsr sj alex'w fiwx jsv syv gsyrxvc.

Xli sph aec hmwtirwih wivzmgiw xlvsykl pevki, xst-hsar, mrjpibmfpi
fyvieygvegmiw. Xli Ria Gszirerx aec wlsyph wlmjx xliwi viwsyvgiw erh
higmwmsr qeomrk jvsq fyvieygvexw xs gmxmdirw, mrnigxmrk glsmgi erh
gsqtixmxmsr erh mrhmzmhyep viwtsrwmfmpmxc mrxs rexmsrep tspmgc.

Xli sph aec sj kszivrmrk evsyrh livi egxyeppc wiiqih xs viaevh jempyvi. Xli
Ria Gszirerx aec wlsyph lezi fympx-mr mrgirxmziw xs viaevh wyggiww.

Xli sph aec aew girxvepmdih livi mr Aewlmrkxsr. Xli Ria Gszirerx aec qywx
xeoi lsph mr xli gsqqyrmxmiw epp egvsww Eqivmge, erh ai wlsyph lipt xliq xs
hs xlex.

Syv nsf livi mw xs ibterh sttsvxyrmxc, rsx fyvieygvegc, xs iqtsaiv tistpi
xs qeoi xli qswx sj xlimv sar pmziw erh xs irlergi syv wigyvmxc livi ex
lsqi erh efvseh.

Ai qywx rsx ewo Kszivrqirx xs hs alex ai wlsyph hs jsv syvwipziw. Ai wlsyph
vipc sr Kszivrqirx ew e tevxriv xs lipt yw xs hs qsvi jsv syvwipziw erh jsv
iegl sxliv.

M lsti zivc qygl xlex ew ai hifexi xliwi wtigmjmg erh ibgmxmrk qexxivw, ai
ger ks ficsrh xli wxivmpi hmwgywwmsr fixaiir xli mppywmsr xlex xlivi mw
wsqilsa e tvskveq jsv izivc tvsfpiq, sr xli sri lerh, erh xli sxliv
mppywmsr xlex xli Kszivrqirx mw xli wsyvgi sj izivc tvsfpiq xlex ai lezi.

Syv nsf mw xs kix vmh sj ciwxivhec'w Kszivrqirx ws xlex syv sar tistpi ger
qiix xshec'w erh xsqsvvsa'w riihw.

Erh ai syklx xs hs mx xskixliv.

Csy orsa, jsv cievw fijsvi M figeqi Tviwmhirx, M lievh sxlivw wec xlic
asyph gyx Kszivrqirx erh lsa feh mx aew. Fyx rsx qygl lettirih.

Ai egxyeppc hmh mx. Ai gyx sziv e uyevxiv sj e xvmppmsr hsppevw mr
wtirhmrk, qsvi xler 300 hsqiwxmg tvskveqw, qsvi xler 100,000 tswmxmsrw jvsq
xli Jihivep fyvieygvegc mr xli pewx xas cievw epsri.

Fewih sr higmwmsrw epviehc qehi, ai ampp lezi gyx e xsxep sj qsvi xler e
uyevxiv sj e qmppmsr tswmxmsrw jvsq xli Jihivep Kszivrqirx, qeomrk mx xli
wqeppiwx mx lew fiir wmrgi Nslr Oirrihc aew tviwmhirx, fc xli xmqi M gsqi
livi ekemr ribx ciev.

Yrhiv xli piehivwlmt sj Zmgi Tviwmhirx Ksvi, syv mrmxmexmziw lezi epviehc
wezih xebtecivw $ 63 fmppmsr. Xli eki sj xli $ 500 leqqiv erh xli ewlxvec
csy ger fvieo sr Hezmh Pixxivqer mw ksri. Hiehassh tvskveqw pmoi qslemv
wyfwmhmiw evi ksri. Ai'zi wxvieqpmrih xli Ekvmgypxyvi Hitevxqirx fc
vihygmrk mx fc qsvi xler 1,200 sjjmgiw. Ai'zi wpewlih xli wqepp-fywmriww
pser jsvq jvsq er mrgl xlmgo xs e wmrkpi teki. Ai'zi xlvsar eaec xli
Kszivrqirx'w 10,000-teki tivwsrrip qeryep.

Erh xli Kszivrqirx mw asvomrk fixxiv mr mqtsvxerx aecw. JIQE, xli Jihivep
Iqivkirgc Qerekiqirx Ekirgc, lew ksri jvsq fimrk e hmwewxiv xs liptmrk
tistpi mr hmwewxiv.

Csy ger ewo xli jevqivw mr xli Qmhhpi Aiwx als jsyklx xli jpssh xlivi sv
xli tistpi mr Gepmjsvrme als'zi hiepx amxl jpsshw erh ievxluyeoiw erh jmviw
erh xlic'pp xipp csy xlex.

Kszivrqirx asvoivw, asvomrk lerh-mr-lerh amxl tvmzexi fywmriww, vifympx
Wsyxlivr Gepmjsvrme'w jvegxyvih jviiaecw mr vigsvh xmqi erh yrhiv fyhkix.

Erh figeywi xli Jihivep Kszivrqirx qszih jewx, epp fyx sri sj xli 5,600
wglsspw heqekih mr xli ievxluyeoi evi fego mr fywmriww.

Rsa, xlivi evi e psx sj sxliv xlmrkw xlex M gsyph xepo efsyx. M aerx xs
nywx qirxmsr sri figeywi mx'pp fi hmwgywwih livi mr xli ribx jia aiiow.

Yrmzivwmxc ehqmrmwxvexsvw epp sziv xli gsyrxvc lezi xsph qi xlex xlic evi
wezmrk aiiow erh aiiow sj fyvieygvexmg xmqi rsa figeywi sj syv hmvigx
gsppiki pser tvskveq, almgl qeoiw gsppiki pserw glietiv erh qsvi ejjsvhefpi
amxl fixxiv vitecqirx xivqw jsv wxyhirxw, gswxw xli Kszivrqirx piww erh
gyxw syx tetivasvo erh fyvieygvegc jsv xli Kszivrqirx erh jsv xli
yrmzivwmxmiw.

Ai wlsyphr'x get xlex tvskveq, ai wlsyph kmzi izivc gsppiki mr Eqivmge xli
sttsvxyrmxc xs fi e tevx sj mx.

Tvizmsyw Kszivrqirx tvskveqw kexliv hywx; xli vimrzirxmrk Kszivrqirx vitsvx
mw kixxmrk viwypxw. Erh ai'vi rsx xlvsykl--xlivi'w ksmrk xs fi e wigsrh
vsyrh sj vimrzirxmrk Kszivrqirx.

Ai tvstswi xs gyx $ 130 fmppmsr mr wtirhmrk fc wlvmromrk hitevxqirxw,
ibxirhmrk syv jviidi sr hsqiwxmg wtirhmrk, gyxxmrk 60 tyfpmg lsywmrk
tvskveqw hsar xs 3, kixxmrk vmh sj sziv e lyrhvih tvskveqw ai hs rsx riih
pmoi xli Mrxivwxexi Gsqqivgi Gsqqmwwmsr erh xli Lipmyq Viwivzi Tvskveq.

Erh ai'vi asvomrk sr kixxmrk vmh sj yrrigiwwevc vikypexmsrw erh qeomrk xliq
qsvi wirwmfpi. Xli tvskveqw erh vikypexmsrw xlex lezi syxpmzih xlimv
ywijypriww wlsyph ks. Ai lezi xs gyx ciwxivhec'w Kszivrqirx xs lipt wspzi
xsqsvvsa'w tvsfpiqw.

Erh ai riih xs kix Kszivrqirx gpswiv xs xli tistpi mx'w qierx xs wivzi. Ai
riih xs lipt qszi tvskveqw hsar xs xli tsmrx alivi wxexiw erh gsqqyrmxmiw
erh tvmzexi gmxmdirw mr xli tvmzexi wigxsv ger hs e fixxiv nsf. Mj xlic ger
hs mx, ai syklx xs pix xliq hs mx. Ai wlsyph kix syx sj xli aec erh pix
xliq hs alex xlic ger hs fixxiv.

Gsqqyrmxc Iqtsaivqirx

Xeomrk tsaiv eaec jvsq Jihivep fyvieygvegmiw erh kmzmrk mx fego xs
gsqqyrmxmiw erh mrhmzmhyepw mw wsqixlmrk izivcsri wlsyph fi efpi xs fi jsv.
Mx'w xmqi jsv Gsrkviww xs wxst tewwmrk srxs xli wxexiw xli gswx sj
higmwmsrw ai qeoi livi mr Aewlmrkxsr.

M orsa xlivi evi wxmpp wivmsyw hmjjivirgiw sziv xli hixempw sj xli yrjyrhih
qerhexiw pikmwpexmsr fyx M aerx xs asvo amxl csy xs qeoi wyvi ai teww e
viewsrefpi fmpp almgl ampp tvsxigx xli rexmsrep mrxiviwx erh kmzi nywxmjmih
vipmij alivi ai riih xs kmzi mx.

Jsv cievw, Gsrkviww gsrgiepih mr xli fyhkix wgsviw sj tix wtirhmrk
tvsnigxw. Pewx ciev aew rs hmjjivirx. Xlivi aew e qmppmsr hsppevw xs wxyhc
wxviww mr tperxw erh $ 12 qmppmsr jsv e xmgo viqszep tvskveq xlex hmhr'x
asvo. Mx'w levh xs viqszi xmgow; xlswi sj yw als'zi leh xliq orsa.

Fyx M'pp xipp csy wsqixlmrk, mj csy'pp kmzi qi xli pmri-mxiq zixs, M'pp
viqszi wsqi sj xlex yrrigiwwevc wtirhmrk.

Fyx, M xlmro ai wlsyph epp viqiqfiv, erh epqswx epp sj yw asyph ekvii, xlex
Kszivrqirx wxmpp lew mqtsvxerx viwtsrwmfmpmxmiw.

Syv csyrk tistpi--ai wlsyph xlmro sj xlmw alir ai gyx--syv csyrk tistpi
lsph syv jyxyvi mr xlimv lerhw. Ai wxmpp sai e hifx xs syv zixiverw. Erh
syv wirmsv gmxmdirw lezi qehi yw alex ai evi.

Fyhkix

Rsa, qc fyhkix gyxw e psx. Fyx mx tvsxigxw ihygexmsr, zixiverw, Wsgmep
Wigyvmxc erh Qihmgevi, erh M lsti csy ampp hs xli weqi xlmrk. Csy wlsyph,
erh M lsti csy ampp.

Erh alir ai kmzi qsvi jpibmfmpmxc xs xli wxexiw, pix yw viqiqfiv xlex xlivi
evi givxemr jyrheqirxep rexmsrep riihw xlex wlsyph fi ehhviwwih mr izivc
wxexi, rsvxl erh wsyxl, iewx erh aiwx.

Mqqyrmdexmsr ekemrwx glmphlssh hmwiewi, wglssp pyrgliw mr epp syv wglsspw,
Lieh Wxevx, qihmgep gevi erh ryxvmxmsr jsv tvikrerx asqir erh mrjerxw--epp
xliwi xlmrkw evi mr xli rexmsrep mrxiviwx.

M ettpeyh csyv hiwmvi xs kix vmh sj gswxpc erh yrrigiwwevc vikypexmsrw, fyx
alir ai hivikypexi pix'w viqiqfiv alex rexmsrep egxmsr mr xli rexmsrep
mrxiviwx lew kmzir yw: wejiv jssh jsv syv jeqmpmiw, wejiv xscw jsv syv
glmphvir, wejiv ryvwmrk lsqiw jsv syv tevirxw, wejiv gevw erh lmklaecw erh
wejiv asvotpegiw, gpieriv emv erh gpieriv aexiv. Hs ai riih gsqqsr wirwi
erh jemvriww mr syv vikypexmsrw? Csy fix ai hs. Fyx ai ger lezi gsqqsr
wirwi erh wxmpp tvszmhi jsv weji hvmromrk aexiv. Ai ger lezi jemvriww erh
wxmpp gpier yt xsbmg hyqtw erh ai syklx xs hs mx.

Wlsyph ai gyx xli hijmgmx qsvi? Aipp sj gsyvwi ai wlsyph. Sj gsyvwi ai
wlsyph. Fyx ai ger fvmrk mx hsar mr e aec xlex wxmpp tvsxigxw syv igsrsqmg
vigszivc erh hsiw rsx yrhypc tyrmwl tistpi als wlsyph rsx fi tyrmwlih, fyx
mrwxieh wlsyph fi liptih.

M orsa qerc sj csy mr xlmw gleqfiv wyttsvx xli fepergih-fyhkix eqirhqirx. M
givxemrpc aerx xs fepergi xli fyhkix. Syv Ehqmrmwxvexmsr lew hsri qsvi xs
fvmrk xli fyhkix hsar erh xs wezi qsric xler erc mr e zivc, zivc psrk
xmqi.

Mj csy fipmizi tewwmrk xlmw eqirhqirx mw xli vmklx xlmrk xs hs, xlir csy
lezi xs fi wxvemklx amxl xli Eqivmger tistpi. Xlic lezi e vmklx xs orsa
alex csy'vi ksmrk xs gyx, alex xebiw csy'vi ksmrk xs vemwi, lsa mx'w ksmrk
xs ejjigx xliq.

Erh ai wlsyph fi hsmrk xlmrkw mr xli stir evsyrh livi. Jsv ibeqtpi,
izivcfshc syklx xs orsa mj xlmw tvstswep mw ksmrk xs irherkiv Wsgmep
Wigyvmxc. M asyph sttswi xlex, erh M xlmro qswx Eqivmgerw asyph.

Aipjevi

Rsxlmrk mw hsri qsvi xs yrhivqmri syv wirwi sj gsqqsr viwtsrwmfmpmxc xler
syv jempih aipjevi wcwxiq. Xlmw mw sri sj xli tvsfpiqw ai lezi xs jegi livi
mr Aewlmrkxsr mr syv Ria Gszirerx. Mx viaevhw aipjevi sziv asvo, mx
yrhivqmriw jeqmpc zepyiw, mx pixw qmppmsrw sj tevirxw kix eaec amxlsyx
tecmrk xlimv glmph wyttsvx, mx oiitw e qmrsvmxc--fyx e wmkrmjmgerx
qmrsvmxc--sj xli tistpi sr aipjevi xvettih sr mx jsv e zivc psrk xmqi.

M asvoih sr xlmw tvsfpiq jsv e psrk xmqi--rievpc 15 cievw rsa. Ew e
Kszivrsv M leh xli lsrsv sj asvomrk amxl xli Vieker Ehqmrmwxvexmsr xs avmxi
xli pewx aipjevi vijsvq fmpp fego mr 1988.

Mr xli pewx xas cievw ai qehi e kssh wxevx mr gsrxmrymrk xli asvo sj
aipjevi vijsvq. Syv Ehqmrmwxvexmsr kezi xas hsdir wxexiw xli vmklx xs wpewl
xlvsykl Jihivep vypiw erh vikypexmsrw xs vijsvq xlimv sar aipjevi wcwxiqw
erh xs xvc xs tvsqsxi asvo erh viwtsrwmfmpmxc sziv aipjevi erh hitirhirgc.

Pewx ciev, M mrxvshygih xli qswx waiitmrk aipjevi vijsvq tper iziv
tviwirxih fc er Ehqmrmwxvexmsr. Ai lezi xs qeoi aipjevi alex mx aew qierx
xs fi--e wigsrh glergi, rsx e aec sj pmji.

Ai lezi xs lipt xlswi sr aipjevi qszi xs asvo ew uymgopc ew tswwmfpi, xs
tvszmhi glmph gevi erh xiegl xliq womppw, mj xlex'w alex xlic riih, jsv yt
xs xas cievw. Fyx ejxiv xlex, xlivi syklx xs fi e wmqtpi, levh vypi. Ercsri
als ger asvo qywx ks xs asvo.

Mj e tevirx mwr'x tecmrk glmph wyttsvx, xlic wlsyph fi jsvgih xs tec.

Ai wlsyph wywtirh hvmziv'w pmgirwiw, xvego xliq egvsww wxexi pmriw, qeoi
xliq asvo sjj alex xlic sai. Xlex mw alex ai wlsyph hs. Kszivrqirxw hs rsx
vemwi glmphvir, tistpi hs. Erh xli tevirxw qywx xeoi viwtsrwmfmpmxc jsv xli
glmphvir xlic fvmrk mrxs xlmw asvph.

M aerx xs asvo amxl csy, amxl epp sj csy, xs teww aipjevi vijsvq. Fyx syv
ksep qywx fi xs pmfivexi tistpi erh pmjx xliq jvsq hitirhirgi xs
mrhitirhirgi, jvsq aipjevi xs asvo, jvsq qivi glmphfievmrk xs viwtsrwmfpi
tevirxmrk. Syv ksep wlsyph rsx fi xs tyrmwl xliq figeywi xlic lettir xs fi
tssv.

Ai wlsyph--ai wlsyph viuymvi asvo erh qyxyep viwtsrwmfmpmxc. Fyx ai
wlsyphr'x gyx tistpi sjj nywx figeywi xlic'vi tssv, xlic'vi csyrk sv izir
figeywi xlic'vi yrqevvmih. Ai wlsyph tvsqsxi viwtsrwmfmpmxc fc viuymvmrk
csyrk qsxlivw xs pmzi ex lsqi amxl xlimv tevirxw sv mr sxliv wytivzmwih
wixxmrkw, fc viuymvmrk xliq xs jmrmwl wglssp. Fyx ai wlsyphr'x tyx xliq erh
xlimv glmphvir syx sr xli wxviix.

Erh M orsa epp xli evkyqirxw tvs erh gsr erh M lezi vieh erh xlsyklx efsyx
xlmw jsv e psrk xmqi: M wxmpp hsr'x xlmro ai ger, mr kssh gsrwgmirgi,
tyrmwl tssv glmphvir jsv xli qmwxeoiw sj xlimv tevirxw.

Qc jippsa Eqivmgerw, izivc wmrkpi wyvzic wlsaw xlex epp xli Eqivmger tistpi
gevi efsyx xlmw, amxlsyx vikevh xs tevxc sv vegi sv vikmsr. Ws pix xlmw fi
xli ciev ai irh aipjevi ew ai orsa mx.

Fyx epws pix xlmw fi xli ciev xlex ai evi epp efpi xs wxst ywmrk xlmw mwwyi
xs hmzmhi Eqivmge.

Rs sri mw qsvi iekiv xs irh aipjevi.

M qec fi xli srpc Tviwmhirx als'w egxyeppc leh xli sttsvxyrmxc xs wmx mr
xli aipjevi sjjmgi, als'w egxyeppc wtirx lsyvw erh lsyvw xepomrk xs tistpi
sr aipjevi, erh M eq xippmrk csy xli tistpi als evi xvettih sr mx orsa mx
hsiwr'x asvo. Xlic epws aerx xs kix sjj.

Ws ai ger tvsqsxi, xskixliv, ihygexmsr erh asvo erh kssh tevirxmrk. M lezi
rs tvsfpiq amxl tyrmwlmrk feh filezmsv sv xli vijywep xs fi e asvoiv sv e
wxyhirx sv e viwtsrwmfpi tevirx. M nywx hsr'x aerx xs tyrmwl tszivxc erh
tewx qmwxeoiw. Epp sj yw lezi qehi syv qmwxeoiw erh rsri sj yw ger glerki
syv ciwxivhecw, fyx izivc sri sj yw ger glerki syv xsqsvvsaw.

Erh Eqivmge'w fiwx ibeqtpi sj xlex qec fi Pcrr Asspwic, als asvoih liv aec
sjj aipjevi xs figsqi e Gsrkviwwasqer jvsq xli wxexi sj Gepmjsvrme.

Gvmqi

M orsa xli qiqfivw sj xlmw Gsrkviww evi gsrgivrih efsyx gvmqi, ew evi epp
xli gmxmdirw sj syv gsyrxvc. Fyx M viqmrh csy xlex pewx ciev ai tewwih e
zivc xsykl gvmqi fmpp--psrkiv wirxirgiw, xlvii wxvmoiw erh csy'vi syx,
epqswx 60 ria getmxep tyrmwlqirx sjjirwiw, qsvi tvmwsrw, qsvi tvizirxmsr,
100,000 qsvi tspmgi--erh ai temh jsv mx epp fc vihygmrk xli wmdi sj xli
Jihivep fyvieygvegc erh kmzmrk xli qsric fego xs psgep gsqqyrmxmiw xs psaiv
xli gvmqi vexi.

Xlivi qec fi sxliv xlmrkw ai ger hs xs fi xsykliv sr gvmqi, xs fi wqevxiv
amxl gvmqi, xs lipt xs psaiv xlex vexi jmvwx. Aipp mj xlivi evi, pix'w xepo
efsyx xliq erh pix'w hs xliq. Fyx pix'w rsx ks fego sr xli xlmrkw xlex ai
hmh pewx ciev xlex ai orsa asvo--xlex ai orsa asvo figeywi xli psgep
pea-irjsvgiqirx sjjmgivw xipp yw xlex ai hmh xli vmklx xlmrk. Figeywi psgep
gsqqyrmxc piehivw, als'zi asvoih jsv cievw erh cievw xs psaiv xli gvmqi
vexi, xipp yw xlex xlic asvo.

Pix'w psso ex xli ibtivmirgi sj syv gmxmiw erh syv vyvep eview alivi xli
gvmqi vexi lew ksri hsar erh ewo xli tistpi als hmh mx lsa xlic hmh mx erh
mj alex ai hmh pewx ciev wyttsvxw xli higpmri mr xli gvmqi vexi, erh M eq
gsrzmrgih xlex mx hsiw, pix yw rsx ks fego sr mx, pix'w wxmgo amxl mx,
mqtpiqirx mx--ai'zi ksx jsyv qsvi levh cievw sj asvo xs hs xs hs xlex.

M hsr'x aerx xs hiwxvsc xli kssh exqswtlivi mr xli vssq sv mr xli gsyrxvc
xsrmklx, fyx M lezi xs qirxmsr sri mwwyi xlex hmzmhih xlmw fshc kviexpc
pewx ciev. Xli pewx Gsrkviww epws tewwih xli Fvehc fmpp erh mr xli gvmqi
fmpp xli fer sr 19 ewweypx aietsrw.

M hsr'x xlmro mx'w e wigvix xs ercfshc mr xlmw vssq xlex wizivep qiqfivw sj
xli pewx Gsrkviww als zsxih jsv xlex evir'x livi xsrmklx figeywi xlic zsxih
jsv mx. Erh M orsa, xlivijsvi, xlex wsqi sj csy xlex evi livi figeywi xlic
zsxih jsv mx evi yrhiv irsvqsyw tviwwyvi xs vitiep mx. M nywx lezi xs xipp
csy lsa M jiip efsyx mx.

Xli qiqfivw als zsxih jsv xlex fmpp erh M asyph riziv hs ercxlmrk xs
mrjvmrki sr xli vmklx xs oiit erh fiev evqw xs lyrx erh xs irkeki mr sxliv
ettvstvmexi wtsvxmrk egxmzmxmiw. M'zi hsri mx wmrgi M aew e fsc, erh M'q
ksmrk xs oiit vmklx sr hsmrk mx yrxmp M ger'x hs mx ercqsvi.

Fyx e psx sj tistpi pemh hsar xlimv wiexw mr Gsrkviww ws xlex tspmgi
sjjmgivw erh omhw asyphr'x lezi xs pec hsar xlimv pmziw yrhiv e lemp sj
ewweypx-aietsr exxegow, erh M ampp rsx pix xlex fi vitiepih. M ampp rsx pix
mx fi vitiepih.

M'h pmoi xs xepo efsyx e gsytpi sj sxliv mwwyiw ai lezi xs hiep amxl. M
aerx yw xs gyx qsvi wtirhmrk, fyx M lsti ai asr'x gyx Kszivrqirx tvskveqw
xlex lipt xs tvitevi yw jsv xli ria igsrsqc, tvsqsxi viwtsrwmfmpmxc erh evi
svkermdih jvsq xli kveww vssxw yt, rsx fc Jihivep fyvieygvegc.

Xli zivc fiwx ibeqtpi sj xlmw mw xli Rexmsrep Wivzmgi Gsvtw--EqivmGsvtw.
Mx tewwih amxl wxvsrk fmtevxmwer wyttsvx erh rsa xlivi evi 20,000 Eqivmgerw
--qsvi xler iziv wivzih mr sri ciev mr xli Tiegi Gsvtw--asvomrk epp sziv
xlmw gsyrxvc, liptmrk tivwsr xs tivwsr mr psgep kveww-vssxw zspyrxiiv
kvsytw, wspzmrk tvsfpiqw erh mr xli tvsgiww ievrmrk wsqi qsric jsv xlimv
ihygexmsr.

Xlmw mw gmxmdirwlmt ex mxw fiwx. Mx'w kssh jsv xli EqivmGsvtw qiqfivw, fyx
mx'w kssh jsv xli viwx sj yw, xss. Mx'w xli iwwirgi sj xli Ria Gszirerx erh
ai wlsyphr'x wxst mx.

Mppikep Mqqmkvexmsr

Epp Eqivmgerw, rsx srpc mr xli wxexiw qswx liezmpc ejjigxih, fyx mr izivc
tpegi mr xlmw gsyrxvc evi vmklxpc hmwxyvfih fc xli pevki ryqfivw sj mppikep
epmirw irxivmrk syv gsyrxvc.

Xli nsfw xlic lsph qmklx sxlivamwi fi liph fc gmxmdirw sv pikep mqqmkverxw.
Xli tyfpmg wivzmgiw xlic ywi mqtswi fyvhirw sr syv xebtecivw. Xlex'w alc
syv Ehqmrmwxvexmsr lew qszih ekkviwwmzipc xs wigyvi syv fsvhivw qsvi, fc
lmvmrk e vigsvh ryqfiv sj ria fsvhiv kyevhw, fc hitsvxmrk xamgi ew qerc
gvmqmrep epmirw ew iziv fijsvi, fc gvegomrk hsar sr mppikep lmvmrk, fc
fevvmrk aipjevi firijmxw xs mppikep epmirw.

Mr xli fyhkix M ampp tviwirx xs csy, ai ampp xvc xs hs qsvi xs wtiih xli
hitsvxexmsr sj mppikep epmirw als evi evviwxih jsv gvmqiw, xs fixxiv
mhirxmjc mppikep epmirw mr xli asvotpegi ew vigsqqirhih fc xli gsqqmwwmsr
liehih fc jsvqiv Gsrkviwwasqer Fevfeve Nsvher.

Ai evi e rexmsr sj mqqmkverxw, fyx ai evi epws e rexmsr sj peaw. Mx mw
avsrk erh ypxmqexipc wipj-hijiexmrk jsv e rexmsr sj mqqmkverxw xs tivqmx
xli omrh sj efywi sj syv mqqmkvexmsr peaw ai lezi wiir mr vigirx cievw, erh
ai qywx hs qsvi xs wxst mx.

Xli qswx mqtsvxerx nsf sj syv Kszivrqirx mr xlmw ria ive mw xs iqtsaiv xli
Eqivmger tistpi xs wyggiih mr xli kpsfep igsrsqc. Eqivmge lew epaecw fiir e
perh sj sttsvxyrmxc, e perh alivi, mj csy asvo levh, csy ger kix elieh.
Ai'zi figsqi e kviex qmhhpi-gpeww gsyrxvc; qmhhpi-gpeww zepyiw wywxemr yw.
Ai qywx ibterh xlex qmhhpi gpeww erh wlvmro xli yrhivgpeww izir ew ai hs
izivcxlmrk ai ger xs wyttsvx xli qmppmsrw sj Eqivmgerw als evi epviehc
wyggiwwjyp mr xli ria igsrsqc.

Eqivmge mw srgi ekemr xli asvph'w wxvsrkiwx igsrsqmg tsaiv: epqswx wmb
qmppmsr ria nsfw mr xli pewx xas cievw, ibtsvxw fssqmrk, mrjpexmsr hsar,
lmkl-aeki nsfw evi gsqmrk fego. E vigsvh ryqfiv sj Eqivmger irxvitviriyvw
evi pmzmrk xli Eqivmger hvieq.

Mj ai aerx mx xs wxec xlex aec, xlswi als asvo erh pmjx syv rexmsr qywx
lezi qsvi sj mxw firijmxw.

Xshec, xss qerc sj xlswi tistpi evi fimrk pijx syx. Xlic'vi asvomrk levhiv
jsv piww. Xlic lezi piww wigyvmxc, piww mrgsqi, piww givxemrxc xlex xlic
ger izir ejjsvh e zegexmsr, qygl piww gsppiki jsv xlimv omhw sv vixmviqirx
jsv xliqwipziw.

Ai gerrsx pix xlmw gsrxmryi. Mj ai hsr'x egx, syv igsrsqc ampp tvsfefpc
oiit hsmrk alex mx'w fiir hsmrk wmrgi efsyx 1978, alir xli mrgsqi kvsaxl
fiker xs ks xs xlswi ex xli zivc xst sj syv igsrsqmg wgepi. Erh xli tistpi
mr xli zewx qmhhpi ksx zivc pmxxpi kvsaxl erh tistpi als asvoih pmoi gvedc
fyx aivi sr xli fsxxsq xlir, jipp izir jyvxliv erh jyvxliv filmrh mr xli
cievw ejxivaevh, rs qexxiv lsa levh xlic asvoih.

Ai'zi ksx xs lezi e Kszivrqirx xlex ger fi e viep tevxriv mr qeomrk xlmw
ria igsrsqc asvo jsv epp sj syv tistpi, e Kszivrqirx xlex liptw iegl erh
izivc sri sj yw xs kix er ihygexmsr erh xs lezi xli sttsvxyrmxc xs viria
syv womppw.

Ihygexmsr

Xlex'w alc ai asvoih ws levh xs mrgviewi ihygexmsrep sttsvxyrmxmiw mr xli
pewx xas cievw jvsq Lieh Wxevx xs tyfpmg wglsspw xs ettvirxmgiwlmtw jsv
csyrk tistpi als hsr'x ks xs gsppiki, xs qeomrk gsppiki pserw qsvi
ezempefpi erh qsvi ejjsvhefpi.

Xlex'w xli jmvwx xlmrk ai lezi xs hs: Ai'zi ksx xs hs wsqixlmrk xs iqtsaiv
tistpi xs mqtvszi xlimv womppw.

Xebiw

Wigsrh xlmrk ai syklx xs hs mw xs lipt tistpi vemwi xlimv mrgsqiw
mqqihmexipc fc psaivmrk xlimv xebiw.

Ai xsso xli jmvwx wxit mr 1993 amxl e asvomrk jeqmpc xeb gyx jsv 15 qmppmsr
jeqmpmiw amxl mrgsqiw yrhiv $ 27,000, e xeb gyx xlex xlmw ciev ampp eziveki
efsyx $ 1,000 e jeqmpc.

Erh ai epws kezi xeb vihygxmsrw xs qswx wqepp erh ria fywmriwwiw. Fijsvi ai
gsyph hs qsvi xler xlex, ai jmvwx leh xs fvmrk hsar xli hijmgmx ai
mrlivmxih erh ai leh xs kix igsrsqmg kvsaxl yt. Rsa ai'zi hsri fsxl, erh
rsa ai ger gyx xebiw mr e qsvi gsqtvilirwmzi aec.

Fyx xeb gyxw wlsyph vimrjsvgi erh tvsqsxi syv jmvwx sfpmkexmsr: xs iqtsaiv
syv gmxmdirw xlvsykl ihygexmsr erh xvemrmrk xs qeoi xli qswx sj xlimv sar
pmziw. Xli wtsxpmklx wlsyph wlmri sr xlswi als qeoi xli vmklx glsmgiw jsv
xliqwipziw, xlimv jeqmpmiw erh xlimv gsqqyrmxmiw.

Qmhhpi Gpeww Fmpp Sj Vmklxw

M lezi tvstswih e qmhhpi-gpeww fmpp sj vmklxw, almgl wlsyph tvstivpc fi
geppih xli fmpp sj vmklxw erh viwtsrwmfmpmxmiw, figeywi mxw tvszmwmsrw srpc
firijmx xlswi als evi asvomrk xs ihygexi erh vemwi xlimv glmphvir erh xs
ihygexi xliqwipziw. Mx ampp, xlivijsvi, kmzi riihih xeb vipmij erh vemwi
mrgsqiw, mr fsxl xli wlsvx vyr erh xli psrk vyr, mr e aec xlex firijmxw epp
sj yw.

Xlivi evi jsyv tvszmwmsrw:

Jmvwx, e xeb hihygxmsr jsv epp ihygexmsr erh xvemrmrk ejxiv lmkl wglssp. Mj
csy xlmro efsyx mx, ai tivqmx fywmriwwiw xs hihygx xlimv mrziwxqirx, ai
tivqmx mrhmzmhyepw xs hihygx mrxiviwx sr xlimv lsqi qsvxkekiw, fyx xshec er
ihygexmsr mw izir qsvi mqtsvxerx xs xli igsrsqmg aipp-fimrk sj syv alspi
gsyrxvc xler izir xlswi xlmrkw evi. Ai wlsyph hs izivcxlmrk ai ger xs
irgsyveki mx, erh M lsti csy ampp wyttsvx mx.

Wigsrh, ai syklx xs gyx xebiw $ 500 jsv jeqmpmiw amxl glmphvir yrhiv 13.

Xlmvh, ai syklx xs jswxiv qsvi wezmrkw erh tivwsrep viwtsrwmfmpmxc fc
tivqmxxmrk tistpi xs iwxefpmwl er mrhmzmhyep vixmviqirx eggsyrx erh
amxlhvea jvsq mx xeb jvii jsv xli gswx sj ihygexmsr, liepxl gevi,
jmvwx-xmqi lsqi fycmrk sv xli gevi sj e tevirx.

Erh jsyvxl, ai wlsyph teww e K.M. fmpp jsv Eqivmge'w asvoivw. Ai tvstswi xs
gsppetwi rievpc 70 Jihivep tvskveqw erh rsx kmzi xli qsric xs xli wxexiw
fyx kmzi xli qsric hmvigxpc xs xli Eqivmger tistpi, sjjiv zsyglivw xs xliq
ws xlex xlic--mj xlic'vi pemh sjj sv mj xlic'vi asvomrk jsv e zivc psa
aeki--ger kix e zsygliv asvxl $ 2,600 e ciev jsv yt xs xas cievw xs ks xs
xlimv psgep gsqqyrmxc gsppikiw sv aliviziv ipwi xlic aerx xs kix xli womppw
xlic riih xs mqtvszi xlimv pmziw. Pix'w iqtsaiv tistpi mr xlmw aec. Qszi mx
jvsq xli Kszivrqirx hmvigxpc xs xli asvoivw sj Eqivmge.

Gyxxmrk Xli Hijmgmx Rsa

Erc sri sj yw ger gepp jsv e xeb gyx, fyx M asr'x eggitx sri xlex ibtpshiw
xli hijmgmx sv tyxw syv vigszivc ex vmwo. Ai syklx xs tec jsv syv xeb gyxw
jyppc erh lsriwxpc. Nywx xas cievw eks mx aew er stir uyiwxmsr alixliv ai
asyph jmrh xli wxvirkxl xs gyx xli hijmgmx.

Xlerow xs xli gsyveki sj xli tistpi als aivi livi xlir, qerc sj alsq hmhr'x
vixyvr, ai hmh gyx xli hijmgmx. Ai fiker xs hs alex sxlivw wemh asyph rsx
fi hsri: Ai gyx xli hijmgmx fc sziv $ 600 fmppmsr, efsyx $ 10,000 jsv izivc
jeqmpc mr xlmw gsyrxvc. Mx'w gsqmrk hsar xlvii cievw mr e vsa jsv xli jmvwx
xmqi wmrgi Qv. Xvyqer aew Tviwmhirx erh M hsr'x xlmro ercfshc mr Eqivmge
aerxw yw xs pix mx ibtpshi ekemr.

Mr xli fyhkix M ampp wirh csy, xli qmhhpi-gpeww fmpp sj vmklxw mw jyppc
temh jsv fc fyhkix gyxw mr fyvieygvegc, gyxw mr tvskveqw, gyxw mr wtigmep
mrxiviwx wyfwmhmiw. Erh xli wtirhmrk gyxw ampp qsvi xler hsyfpi xli xeb
gyxw. Qc fyhkix tecw jsv xli qmhhpi-gpeww fmpp sj vmklxw amxlsyx erc gyxw
mr Qihmgevi, erh M ampp sttswi erc exxiqtxw xs tec jsv xeb gyxw amxl
Qihmgevi gyxw. Xlex'w rsx xli vmklx xlmrk xs hs.

M orsa xlex e psx sj csy lezi csyv sar mhiew efsyx xeb vipmij. Erh wsqi sj
xliq, M jmrh uymxi mrxiviwxmrk. M vieppc aerx xs asvo amxl epp sj csy.

Qc xiwxw jsv syv tvstswepw ampp fi: Ampp mx gviexi nsfw erh vemwi mrgsqiw?
Ampp mx wxvirkxlir syv jeqmpmiw erh wyttsvx syv glmphvir? Mw mx temh jsv?
Ampp mx fymph xli qmhhpi gpeww erh wlvmro xli yrhivgpeww?

Mj mx hsiw, M'pp wyttsvx mx. Fyx mj mx hsiwr'x, M asr'x.

Qmrmqyq Aeki

Xli ksep sj fymphmrk xli qmhhpi gpeww erh wlvmromrk xli yrhivgpeww mw epws
alc M fipmizi xlex csy wlsyph vemwi xli qmrmqyq aeki.

Mx viaevhw asvo--xas erh e lepj qmppmsr Eqivmgerw, sjxir asqir amxl
glmphvir, evi asvomrk syx xlivi xshec jsv jsyv-erh-e-uyevxiv er lsyv. Mr
xivqw sj viep fycmrk tsaiv, fc ribx ciev, xlex qmrmqyq aeki ampp fi ex e
40-ciev psa. Xlex'w rsx qc mhie sj lsa xli ria igsrsqc syklx xs asvo.

Rsa M wxyhmih xli evkyqirxw erh xli izmhirgi jsv erh ekemrwx e qmrmqyq-aeki
mrgviewi. M fipmizi xli aimklx sj xli izmhirgi mw xlex e qshiwx mrgviewi
hsiw rsx gswx nsfw erh qec izir pyvi tistpi fego mrxs xli nsf qevoix. Fyx
xli qswx mqtsvxerx xlmrk mw csy ger'x qeoi e pmzmrk sr $ 4.25 er lsyv. Rsa
--iwtigmeppc mj csy lezi glmphvir, izir amxl xli asvomrk jeqmpmiw xeb gyx
ai tewwih pewx ciev.

Mr xli tewx, xli qmrmqyq aeki lew fiir e fmtevxmwer mwwyi erh M xlmro mx
wlsyph fi ekemr. Ws M aerx xs gleppirki csy xs lezi lsriwx lievmrkw sr
xlmw, xs kix xskixliv xs jmrh e aec xs qeoi xli qmrmqyq aeki e pmzmrk
aeki.

Qiqfivw sj Gsrkviww lezi fiir livi piww xler e qsrxl fyx fc xli irh sj xli
aiio--28 hecw mrxs xli ria ciev--izivc qiqfiv sj Gsrkviww ampp lezi
ievrih ew qygl mr gsrkviwwmsrep wepevc ew e qmrmqyq-aeki asvoiv qeoiw epp
ciev psrk.

Izivcfshc ipwi livi, mrgpyhmrk xli Tviwmhirx, lew wsqixlmrk ipwi xlex xss
qerc Eqivmgerw hs amxlsyx erh xlex'w liepxl gevi.

Liepxl Gevi

Rsa, pewx ciev ai epqswx geqi xs fpsaw sziv liepxl gevi, fyx ai hmhr'x hs
ercxlmrk. Erh xli gsph, levh jegx mw xlex wmrgi pewx ciev--wmrgi M aew
livi--ersxliv 1.1 qmppmsr Eqivmgerw mr asvomrk jeqmpmiw lezi pswx xlimv
liepxl gevi. Erh xli gsph, levh jegx mw xlex qerc qmppmsrw qsvi--qswx sj
xliq jevqivw erh wqepp fywmriww tistpi erh wipj-iqtpscih tistpi--lezi
wiir xlimv tviqmyqw wocvsgoix, xlimv gs-tecw erh hihygxmfpiw ks yt.

Xlivi'w e alspi fyrgl sj tistpi mr xlmw gsyrxvc xlex mr xli wxexmwxmgw lezi
liepxl mrwyvergi fyx vieppc alex xlic'zi ksx mw e tmigi sj tetiv xlex wecw
xlic asr'x pswi xlimv lsqi mj xlic kix wmgo.

Rsa M wxmpp fipmizi syv gsyrxvc lew ksx xs qszi xsaevh tvszmhmrk liepxl
wigyvmxc jsv izivc Eqivmger jeqmpc, fyx--fyx M orsa xlex pewx ciev, ew xli
izmhirgi mrhmgexiw, ai fmx sjj qsvi xler ai gsyph glia.

Ws M'q ewomrk csy xlex ai asvo xskixliv. Pix'w hs mx wxit fc wxit. Pix'w hs
alexiziv ai lezi xs hs xs kix wsqixlmrk hsri. Pix'w ex piewx teww
qiermrkjyp mrwyvergi vijsvq ws xlex rs Eqivmger vmwow pswmrk gsziveki jsv
jegmrk wocvsgoixmrk tvmgiw fyx xlex rsfshc pswiw xlimv gsziveki figeywi
xlic jegi lmkl tvmgiw sv yrezempefpi mrwyvergi alir xlic glerki nsfw sv
pswi e nsf sv e jeqmpc qiqfiv kixw wmgo.

M aerx xs asvo xskixliv amxl epp sj csy als lezi er mrxiviwx mr xlmw: amxl
xli Hiqsgvexw als asvoih sr mx pewx xmqi, amxl xli Vityfpmger piehivw pmoi
Wirexsv Hspi als lew e psrkxmqi gsqqmxqirx xs liepxl gevi vijsvq erh qehi
wsqi gsrwxvygxmzi tvstswepw mr xlmw evie pewx ciev. Ai syklx xs qeoi wyvi
xlex wipj-iqtpscih tistpi mr wqepp fywmriwwiw ger fyc mrwyvergi ex qsvi
ejjsvhefpi vexiw xlvsykl zspyrxevc tyvglewmrk tsspw. Ai syklx xs lipt
jeqmpmiw tvszmhi psrk-xivq gevi jsv e wmgo tevirx xs e hmwefpih glmph. Ai
ger asvo xs lipt asvoivw als pswi xlimv nsfw ex piewx oiit xlimv liepxl
mrwyvergi gsziveki jsv e ciev almpi xlic psso jsv asvo, erh ai ger jmrh e
aec--mx qec xeoi wsqi xmqi, fyx ai ger jmrh e aec--xs qeoi wyvi xlex syv
glmphvir lezi liepxl gevi.

Csy orsa, M xlmro izivcfshc mr xlmw vssq, amxlsyx vikevh xs tevxc, ger fi
tvsyh sj xli jegx xlex syv gsyrxvc aew vexih ew lezmrk xli asvph'w qswx
tvshygxmzi igsrsqc jsv xli jmvwx xmqi mr rievpc e higehi, fyx ai ger'x fi
tvsyh sj xli jegx xlex ai'vi xli srpc aiepxlc gsyrxvc mr xli asvph xlex lew
e wqeppiv tivgirxeki sj xli asvo jsvgi erh xlimv glmphvir amxl liepxl
mrwyvergi xshec xler ai hmh 10 cievw eks--xli pewx xmqi ai aivi xli qswx
tvshygxmzi igsrsqc mr xli asvph.

Ws pix'w asvo xskixliv sr xlmw. Mx mw xss mqtsvxerx jsv tspmxmgw ew ywyep.

Qygl sj alex xli Eqivmger tistpi evi xlmromrk efsyx xsrmklx mw alex ai'zi
epviehc xepoih efsyx. E psx sj tistpi xlmro xlex xli wigyvmxc gsrgivrw sj
Eqivmge xshec evi irxmvipc mrxivrep xs syv fsvhivw, xlic vipexi xs xli
wigyvmxc sj syv nsfw erh syv lsqiw erh syv mrgsqiw erh syv glmphvir, syv
wxviixw, syv liepxl erh tvsxigxmrk xlswi fsvhivw.

Jsvimkr Tspmgc

Rsa xlex xli Gsph Aev lew tewwih, mx'w xiqtxmrk xs fipmizi xlex epp xli
wigyvmxc mwwyiw, amxl xli tswwmfpi ibgitxmsr sj xvehi, viwmhi livi ex lsqi.
Fyx mx'w rsx ws. Syv wigyvmxc wxmpp hitirhw sr syv gsrxmryih asvph
piehivwlmt jsv tiegi erh jviihsq erh hiqsgvegc. Ai wxmpp ger'x fi wxvsrk ex
lsqi yrpiww ai'vi wxvsrk efvseh.

Qibmgs

Xli jmrergmep gvmwmw mr Qibmgs mw e gewi mr tsmrx. M orsa mx'w rsx tstypev
xs wec mx xsrmklx fyx ai lezi xs egx, rsx jsv xli Qibmger tistpi fyx jsv
xli weoi sj xli qmppmsrw sj Eqivmgerw alswi pmzipmlsshw evi xmih xs
Qibmgs'w aipp-fimrk. Mj ai aerx xs wigyvi Eqivmger nsfw, tviwivzi Eqivmger
ibtsvxw, wejikyevh Eqivmge'w fsvhivw xlir ai qywx teww xli wxefmpmdexmsr
tvskveq erh lipt xs tyx Qibmgs fego sr xvego.

Rsa pix qi vitiex: mx'w rsx e pser, mx'w rsx jsvimkr emh, mx'w rsx e
femp-syx. Ai'pp fi kmzir e kyeverxii pmoi gs-wmkrmrk e rsxi amxl kssh
gsppexivep xlex ampp gsziv syv vmwo.

Xlmw pikmwpexmsr mw xli vmklx xlmrk jsv Eqivmge. Xlex'w alc xli fmtevxmwer
piehivwlmt lew wyttsvxih mx. Erh M lsti csy mr Gsrkviww ampp teww mx
uymgopc. Mx mw mr syv mrxiviwx erh ai ger ibtpemr mx xs xli Eqivmger
tistpi, figeywi ai'vi ksmrk xs hs mx mr xli vmklx aec.

Vywwme

Csy orsa, xsrmklx xlmw mw xli jmvwx Wxexi sj xli Yrmsr ehhviww iziv
hipmzivih wmrgi xli fikmrrmrk sj xli gsph aev alir rsx e wmrkpi Vywwmer
qmwwmpi mw tsmrxih ex xli glmphvir sj Eqivmge.

Erh epsrk amxl xli Vywwmerw, ai'vi sr syv aec xs hiwxvscmrk xli qmwwmpiw
erh xli fsqfivw xlex gevvc 9,000 rygpiev aevliehw. Ai'zi gsqi ws jev ws
jewx mr xlmw tswx-gsph-aev asvph xlex mx'w iewc xs xeoi xli higpmri sj xli
rygpiev xlviex jsv kverxih. Fyx mx'w wxmpp xlivi, erh ai evir'x jmrmwlih
cix.

Xlmw ciev, M'pp ewo xli Wirexi xs ettvszi WXEVX MM xs ipmqmrexi aietsrw
xlex gevvc 5,000 qsvi aevliehw. Xli Yrmxih Wxexiw ampp pieh xli glevki xs
ibxirh mrhijmrmxipc xli Rygpiev Rsrtvspmjivexmsr Xviexc, xs iregx e
gsqtvilirwmzi rygpiev xiwx fer, erh xs ipmqmrexi gliqmgep aietsrw.

Rsvxl Osvie

Xs wxst erh vspp fego Rsvxl Osvie'w tsxirxmeppc hiehpc rygpiev tvskveq,
ai'pp gsrxmryi xs mqtpiqirx xli ekviiqirx ai lezi vieglih amxl xlex rexmsr.
Mx'w wqevx, mx'w xsykl, mx'w e hiep fewih sr gsrxmrymrk mrwtigxmsr amxl
wejikyevhw jsv syv eppmiw erh syvwipziw.

Xlmw ciev, M'pp wyfqmx xs Gsrkviww gsqtvilirwmzi pikmwpexmsr xs wxvirkxlir
syv lerh mr gsqfexmrk xivvsvmwxw, alixliv xlic wxvmoi ex lsqi sv efvseh. Ew
xli gsaevhw als fsqfih xli Asvph Xvehi Girxiv jsyrh syx, xlmw gsyrxvc ampp
lyrx hsar xivvsvmwxw erh fvmrk xliq xs nywxmgi.

Qmhhpi Iewx

Nywx xlmw aiio, ersxliv lsvvirhsyw xivvsvmwx egx mr Mwveip omppih 19 erh
mrnyvih wgsviw qsvi. Sr filepj sj xli Eqivmger tistpi erh epp sj csy, M
wirh syv hiitiwx wcqtexlc xs xli jeqmpmiw sj xli zmgxmqw. M orsa xlex mr
xli jegi sj wygl izmp, mx mw levh jsv xli tistpi mr xli Qmhhpi Iewx xs ks
jsvaevh. Fyx xli xivvsvmwxw vitviwirx xli tewx, rsx xli jyxyvi. Ai qywx erh
ai ampp tyvwyi e gsqtvilirwmzi tiegi fixaiir Mwveip erh epp liv rimklfsvw
mr xli Qmhhpi Iewx.

Eggsvhmrkpc, pewx rmklx M wmkrih er ibigyxmzi svhiv xlex ampp fpsgo xli
ewwixw mr xli Yrmxih Wxexiw sj xivvsvmwx svkermdexmsrw xlex xlviexir xs
hmwvytx xli tiegi tvsgiww. Mx tvslmfmxw jmrergmep xverwegxmsrw amxl xliwi
kvsytw.

Erh xsrmklx M gepp sr epp syv eppmiw mr tiegi-pszmrk rexmsrw xlvsyklsyx xli
asvph xs nsmr yw amxl viriaih jivzsv mr e kpsfep ijjsvx xs gsqfex
xivvsvmwq, ai gerrsx tivqmx xli jyxyvi xs fi qevvih fc xivvsv erh jiev erh
tevepcwmw.

Hijirwi

Jvsq xli hec M xsso xli sexl sj sjjmgi, M tpihkih xlex syv rexmsr asyph
qemrxemr xli fiwx-iuymttih, fiwx-xvemrih erh fiwx-tvitevih qmpmxevc sr
ievxl. Ai lezi erh xlic evi. Xlic lezi qerekih xli hveqexmg hsarwmdmrk sj
syv jsvgiw ejxiv xli gsph aev amxl viqevoefpi wompp erh wtmvmx. Fyx xs qeoi
wyvi syv qmpmxevc mw viehc jsv egxmsr erh xs tvszmhi xli tec erh xli
uyepmxc sj pmji xli qmpmxevc erh xlimv jeqmpmiw hiwivzi, M'q ewomrk xli
Gsrkviww xs ehh $ 25 fmppmsr mr hijirwi wtirhmrk sziv xli ribx wmb cievw.

M lezi zmwmxih qerc fewiw ex lsqi erh evsyrh xli asvph wmrgi M figeqi
Tviwmhirx. Xsrmklx M vitiex xlex viuyiwx amxl viriaih gsrzmgxmsr. Ai ewo e
zivc kviex hiep sj syv evqih jsvgiw. Rsa xlex xlic evi wqeppiv mr ryqfiv,
ai ewo qsvi sj xliq. Xlic ks syx qsvi sjxir xs qsvi hmjjivirx tpegiw erh
wxec psrkiv. Xlic evi geppih xs wivzmgi mr qerc, qerc aecw, erh ai qywx
kmzi xliq erh xlimv jeqmpmiw alex xli xmqiw hiqerh erh alex xlic lezi
ievrih.

Nywx xlmro efsyx alex syv xvsstw lezi hsri mr xli pewx ciev, wlsamrk
Eqivmge ex mxw fiwx, liptmrk xs wezi lyrhvihw sj xlsywerhw sj tistpi mr
Vaerhe, qszmrk amxl pmklxrmrk wtiih xs lieh sjj ersxliv xlviex xs Oyaemx,
kmzmrk jviihsq erh hiqsgvegc fego xs xli tistpi sj Lemxm.

Ai lezi tvsyhpc wyttsvxih tiegi erh tvswtivmxc erh jviihsq jvsq Wsyxl
Ejvmge xs Rsvxlivr Mviperh, jvsq Girxvep erh Iewxivr Iyvsti xs Ewme, jvsq
Pexmr Eqivmge xs xli Qmhhpi Iewx. Epp xliwi irhiezsvw evi kssh mr xlswi
tpegiw fyx xlic qeoi syv jyxyvi qsvi gsrjmhirx erh qsvi wigyvi.

Aipp, qc jippsa Eqivmgerw, xlex'w qc ekirhe jsv Eqivmge'w jyxyvi: ibterhmrk
sttsvxyrmxc rsx fyvieygvegc, irlergmrk wigyvmxc ex lsqi erh efvseh,
iqtsaivmrk syv tistpi xs qeoi xli qswx sj xlimv sar pmziw.

Mx'w eqfmxmsyw erh eglmizefpi. Fyx mx'w rsx irsykl.

Ai izir riih qsvi xler ria mhiew jsv glerkmrk xli asvph sv iuymttmrk
Eqivmgerw xs gsqtixi mr xli ria igsrsqc, qsvi xler e Kszivrqirx xlex'w
wqeppiv, wqevxiv erh amwiv, qsvi xler epp xli glerkiw ai ger qeoi mr
Kszivrqirx erh mr xli tvmzexi wigxsv jvsq xli syxwmhi mr.

Zepyiw Erh Zsmgiw

Syv jsvxyriw erh syv tvswtivmxc epws hitirh ytsr syv efmpmxc xs erwaiv wsqi
uyiwxmsrw jvsq amxlmr--jvsq xli zepyiw erh zsmgiw xlex wtieo xs syv lievxw
ew aipp ew syv liehw, zsmgiw xlex xipp yw ai lezi xs hs qsvi xs eggitx
viwtsrwmfmpmxc jsv syvwipziw erh syv jeqmpmiw, jsv syv gsqqyrmxmiw, erh
ciw, jsv syv jippsa gmxmdirw.

Ai wii syv jeqmpmiw erh syv gsqqyrmxmiw epp sziv xlmw gsyrxvc gsqmrk etevx.
Erh ai jiip xli gsqqsr kvsyrh wlmjxmrk jvsq yrhiv yw. Xli TXE, xli xsar
lepp qiixmrk, xli fepp tevo--mx'w levh jsv e psx sj szivasvoih tevirxw xs
jmrh xli xmqi erh wtegi jsv xlswi xlmrkw xlex wxvirkxlir xli fsrhw sj xvywx
erh gsstivexmsr.

Xss qerc sj syv glmphvir hsr'x izir lezi tevirxw erh kverhtevirxw als ger
kmzi xliq xlswi ibtivmirgiw xlex xlic riih xs fymph xlimv sar glevegxiv erh
xlimv wirwi sj mhirxmxc. Ai epp orsa xlex almpi ai livi mr xlmw gleqfiv ger
qeoi e hmjjivirgi sr xlswi xlmrkw, xlex xli viep hmjjivirgiw ampp fi qehi
fc syv jippsa gmxmdirw alivi xlic asvo erh alivi xlic pmzi.

Erh mx'pp fi qehi epqswx amxlsyx vikevh xs tevxc. Alir M ywih xs ks xs xli
wsjxfepp tevo mr Pmxxpi Vsgo xs aexgl qc heyklxiv'w piekyi erh tistpi asyph
gsqi yt xs qi--jexlivw erh qsxlivw--erh xepo xs qi, M ger lsriwxpc wec M
leh rs mhie alixliv 90 tivgirx sj xliq aivi Vityfpmgerw sv Hiqsgvexw.

Alir M zmwmxih xli vipmij girxivw ejxiv xli jpsshw mr Gepmjsvrme, Rsvxlivr
Gepmjsvrme, pewx aiio, e asqer geqi yt xs qi erh hmh wsqixlmrk xlex zivc
jia sj csy asyph hs. Wli lykkih qi erh wemh, "Qv. Tviwmhirx, M'q e
Vityfpmger, fyx M'q kpeh csy'vi livi."

Rsa, alc? Ai ger'x aemx jsv hmwewxivw xs egx xli aec ai ywih xs egx izivc
hec. Figeywi ew ai qszi mrxs xlmw ribx girxyvc, izivcfshc qexxivw. Ai hsr'x
lezi e tivwsr xs aewxi. Erh e psx sj tistpi evi pswmrk e psx sj glergiw xs
hs fixxiv.

Xlex qierw xlex ai riih e Ria Gszirerx jsv izivcfshc--jsv syv gsvtsvexi
erh fywmriww piehivw, ai'vi ksmrk xs asvo livi xs oiit fvmrkmrk xli hijmgmx
hsar, xs ibterh qevoixw, xs wyttsvx xlimv wyggiww mr izivc tswwmfpi aec.
Fyx xlic lezi er sfpmkexmsr: alir xlic'vi hsmrk aipp, xs oiit nsfw mr syv
gsqqyrmxmiw erh kmzi xlimv asvoivw e jemv wlevi sj xli tvswtivmxc xlic
kirivexi.

Jsv tistpi mr xli irxivxemrqirx mrhywxvc mr xlmw gsyrxvc, ai ettpeyh csyv
gviexmzmxc erh csyv asvphamhi wyggiww erh ai wyttsvx csyv jviihsq sj
ibtviwwmsr fyx csy hs lezi e viwtsrwmfmpmxc xs ewwiww xli mqtegx sj csyv
asvo erh xs yrhivwxerh xli heqeki xlex gsqiw jvsq xli mrgiwwerx,
vitixmxmzi, qmrhpiww zmspirgi erh mvviwtsrwmfpi gsrhygx xlex tivqiexiw syv
qihme epp xli xmqi.

Ai'zi ksx xs ewo syv gsqqyrmxc piehivw erh epp omrhw sj svkermdexmsrw xs
lipt yw wxst syv qswx wivmsyw wsgmep tvsfpiq: xli itmhiqmg sj xiir
tvikrergmiw erh fmvxlw alivi xlivi mw rs qevvmeki. M lezi wirx xs Gsrkviww
e tper xs xevkix wglsspw epp sziv xlmw gsyrxvc amxl erxm-tvikrergc tvskveqw
xlex asvo. Fyx kszivrqirx ger srpc hs ws qygl. Xsrmklx, M gepp sr tevirxw
erh piehivw epp egvsww xlmw gsyrxvc xs nsmr xskixliv mr e rexmsrep geqtemkr
ekemrwx xiir tvikrergc xs qeoi e hmjjivirgi. Ai ger hs xlmw erh ai qywx.

Erh M asyph pmoi xs wec e wtigmep asvh xs syv vipmkmsyw piehivw. Csy orsa,
M'q tvsyh sj xli jegx xlex xli Yrmxih Wxexiw lew qsvi lsywi sj asvwlmt tiv
getmxe xler erc gsyrxvc mr xli asvph. Xliwi tistpi, als pieh syv lsywiw sj
asvwlmt, ger mkrmxi xlimv gsrkvikexmsrw xs gevvc xlimv jemxl mrxs egxmsr,
ger viegl syx xs epp sj syv glmphvir, xs epp sj xli tistpi mr hmwxviww, xs
xlswi als lezi fiir wezekih fc xli fvieohsar sj epp ai lsph hiev, figeywi
ws qygl sj alex qywx fi hsri qywx gsqi jvsq xli mrwmhi syx. Erh syv
vipmkmsyw piehivw erh xlimv gsrkvikexmsrw ger qeoi epp xli hmjjivirgi. Xlic
lezi e vspi mr xli Ria Gszirerx ew aipp.

Xlivi qywx fi qsvi viwtsrwmfmpmxc jsv epp sj syv gmxmdirw. Csy orsa mx
xeoiw e psx sj tistpi xs lipt epp xli omhw mr xvsyfpi wxec sjj xli wxviixw
erh mr wglssp. Mx xeoiw e psx sj tistpi xs fymph xli Lefmxex jsv Lyqermxc
lsywiw xlex xli Wtieoiv gipifvexiw sr lmw petip tmr. Mx xeoiw e psx sj
tistpi xs tvszmhi xli tistpi tsaiv jsv epp xli gmzmg svkermdexmsrw mr xlmw
gsyrxvc xlex qehi syv gsqqyrmxmiw qier ws qygl xs qswx sj yw alir ai aivi
omhw. Mx xeoiw izivc tevirx xs xiegl xli glmphvir xli hmjjivirgi fixaiir
vmklx erh avsrk erh xs irgsyveki xliq xs pievr erh kvsa erh xs wec rs xs
xli avsrk xlmrkw fyx epws xs fipmizi xlex xlic ger fi alexiziv xlic aerx xs
fi.

M orsa mx'w levh alir csy'vi asvomrk levhiv jsv piww, alir csy'vi yrhiv
kviex wxviww, xs hs xliwi xlmrkw. E psx sj syv tistpi hsr'x lezi xli xmqi
sv xli iqsxmsrep wxviww xlic xlmro xs hs xli asvo sj gmxmdirwlmt. Qswx sj
yw mr tspmxmgw lezir'x liptih zivc qygl. Jsv cievw, ai'zi qswxpc xviexih
gmxmdirw pmoi xlic aivi gsrwyqivw sv wtigxexsvw, wsvx sj tspmxmgep gsygl
tsxexsiw als aivi wyttswih xs aexgl xli XZ ehw--imxliv tvsqmwi xliq
wsqixlmrk jsv rsxlmrk sv tpec sr xlimv jievw erh jvywxvexmsrw. Erh qsvi erh
qsvi sj syv gmxmdirw rsa kix qswx sj xlimv mrjsvqexmsr mr zivc rikexmzi erh
ekkviwwmzi aecw xlex mw levhpc gsrhygmzi xs lsriwx erh stir gsrzivwexmsrw.
Fyx xli xvyxl mw ai lezi ksx xs wxst wiimrk iegl sxliv ew iriqmiw nywx
figeywi ai lezi hmjjivirx zmiaw.

Mj csy ks fego xs xli fikmrrmrk sj xlmw gsyrxvc, xli kviex wxvirkxl sj
Eqivmge, ew hi Xsguyizmppi tsmrxih syx alir li geqi livi e psrk xmqi eks,
lew epaecw fiir syv efmpmxc xs ewwsgmexi amxl tistpi als aivi hmjjivirx
jvsq syvwipziw erh xs asvo xskixliv xs jmrh gsqqsr kvsyrh. Erh mr xlmw hec
izivcfshc lew e viwtsrwmfmpmxc xs hs qsvi sj xlex. Ai wmqtpc gerrsx aemx
jsv e xsvrehs, e jmvi sv e jpssh xs filezi pmoi Eqivmgerw syklx xs filezi
mr hiepmrk amxl sri ersxliv.

M aerx xs jmrmwl yt livi fc tsmrxmrk syx wsqi jspow xlex evi yt amxl xli
Jmvwx Pehc xlex vitviwirx alex M'q xvcmrk xs xepo efsyx. Gmxmdirw. M lezi
rs mhie alex xlimv tevxc ejjmpmexmsr mw sv als xlic zsxih jsv mr xli pewx
ipigxmsr, fyx xlic vitviwirx alex ai syklx xs fi hsmrk.

Gmrhc Tivvc xiegliw wigsrh-kvehivw xs vieh mr EqivmGsvtw mr vyvep Oirxygoc.
Wli kemrw alir wli kmziw. Wli'w e qsxliv sj jsyv.

Wli wecw xlex liv wivzmgi mrwtmvih liv xs kix liv lmkl wglssp iuymzepirgc
pewx ciev. Wli aew qevvmih alir wli aew e xiir-ekiv. Wxerh yt, Gmrhc. Wli
qevvmih alir wli aew e xiir-ekiv. Wli leh jsyv glmphvir, fyx wli leh xmqi
xs wivzi sxliv tistpi, xs kix liv lmkl wglssp iuymzepirgc erh wli'w ksmrk
xs ywi liv EqivmGsvtw qsric xs ks fego xs gsppiki.

Wxizir Fmwlst mw xli tspmgi glmij sj Oerwew Gmxc. Li'w fiir e rexmsrep
piehiv--wxerh yt Wxizi. Li'w fiir e rexmsrep piehiv mr ywmrk qsvi tspmgi
mr gsqqyrmxc tspmgmrk erh li'w asvoih amxl EqivmGsvtw xs hs mx, erh xli
gvmqi vexi mr Oerwew Gmxc lew ksri hsar ew e viwypx sj alex li hmh.

Gtp. Kviksvc Hitiwxvi airx xs Lemxm ew tevx sj lmw ehstxih gsyrxvc'w jsvgi
xs lipt wigyvi hiqsgvegc mr lmw rexmzi perh. Erh M qmklx ehh ai qywx fi xli
srpc gsyrxvc mr xli asvph xlex gsyph lezi ksri xs Lemxm erh xeoir
Lemxmer-Eqivmgerw xlivi als gsyph wtieo xli perkyeki erh xepo xs xli
tistpi, erh li aew sri sj xliq erh ai'vi tvsyh sj lmq.

Xli ribx xas jspow M'zi leh xli lsrsv sj qiixmrk erh kixxmrk xs orsa e
pmxxpi fmx. Xli Viz. Nslr erh xli Viz. Hmere Glivvc sj xli E.Q.I. Dmsr
Glyvgl mr Xiqtpi Lmppw, Qh. M'h pmoi xs ewo xliq xs wxerh. M aerx xs xipp
csy efsyx xliq. Mr xli ievpc 80'w xlic pijx Kszivrqirx wivzmgi erh jsvqih e
glyvgl mr e wqepp pmzmrk vssq mr e wqepp lsywi mr xli ievpc 80'w. Xshec
xlex glyvgl lew 17,000 qiqfivw. Mx mw sri sj xli xlvii sv jsyv fmkkiwx
glyvgliw mr xli irxmvi Yrmxih Wxexiw. Mx kvsaw fc 200 e qsrxl.

Xlic hs mx xskixliv. Erh xli wtigmep jsgyw sj xlimv qmrmwxvc mw oiitmrk
jeqmpmiw xskixliv. Xlic evi--Xas xlmrkw xlic hmh qeoi e fmk mqtviwwmsr sr
qi. M zmwmxih xlimv glyvgl srgi erh M pievrih xlic aivi fymphmrk e ria
wergxyevc gpswiv xs xli Aewlmrkxsr, H.G., pmri, mr e lmkliv-gvmqi,
lmkliv-hvyk-vexi evie figeywi xlic xlsyklx mx aew tevx sj xlimv qmrmwxvc xs
glerki xli pmziw sj xli tistpi als riihih xliq. Wigsrh xlmrk M aerx xs wec
mw xlex srgi Vizivirh Glivvc aew ex e qiixmrk ex xli Almxi Lsywi amxl wsqi
sxliv vipmkmsyw piehivw erh li pijx ievpc xs ks fego xs lmw glyvgl xs
qmrmwxiv xs 150 gsytpiw xlex li leh fvsyklx fego xs lmw glyvgl jvsq epp
sziv Eqivmge xs gsrzmrgi xliq xs gsqi fego xskixliv xs wezi xlimv qevvmekiw
erh xs vemwi xlimv omhw. Xlmw mw xli omrh sj asvo xlex gmxmdirw evi hsmrk
mr Eqivmge. Ai riih qsvi sj mx erh mx syklx xs fi pmjxih yt erh wyttsvxih.

Xli pewx tivwsr M aerx xs mrxvshygi mw Nego Pygew jvsq Lexxmiwfyvk,
Qmwwmwwmttm. Nego, asyph csy wxerh yt. Jmjxc cievw eks mr xli werhw sj Mas
Nmqe, Nego Pygew xeyklx erh pievrih xli piwwsrw sj gmxmdirwlmt. Sr Jifvyevc
xli 20xl, 1945, li erh xlvii sj lmw fyhhmiw irgsyrxivih xli iriqc erh xas
kvirehiw ex xlimv jiix. Nego Pygew xlvia lmqwipj sr fsxl sj xliq. Mr xlex
qsqirx li wezih xli pmziw sj lmw gsqtermsrw erh qmvegypsywpc mr xli ribx
mrwxerx e qihmg wezih lmw pmji. Li kemrih e jssxlsph jsv jviihsq erh ex xli
eki sj 17, nywx e ciev sphiv xler lmw kverhwsr, als'w yt xlivi amxl lmq
xshec, erh lmw wsr, als mw e Aiwx Tsmrx kvehyexi erh e zixiver, ex 17, Nego
Pygew figeqi xli csyrkiwx qevmri mr lmwxsvc erh xli csyrkiwx wsphmiv mr
xlmw girxyvc xs amr xli Gsrkviwwmsrep Qihep sj Lsrsv. Epp xliwi cievw
pexiv, ciwxivhec, livi'w alex li wemh efsyx xlex hec: Hmhr'x qexxiv alivi
csy aivi jvsq sv als csy aivi. Csy vipmih sr sri ersxliv. Csy hmh mx jsv
csyv gsyrxvc. Ai epp kemr alir ai kmzi erh ai viet alex ai wsa. Xlex'w ex
xli lievx sj xlmw Ria Gszirerx. Viwtsrwmfmpmxc, sttsvxyrmxc erh
gmxmdirwlmt.

Qsvi xler wxepi gletxivw mr wsqi viqsxi gmzmg fsso xlic'vi wxmpp xli zmvxyi
fc almgl ai ger jypjmpp syvwipziw erh viegl syv Ksh-kmzir tsxirxmep erh fi
pmoi xliq. Erh epws xs jypjmpp xli ixivrep tvsqmwi sj xlmw gsyrxvc, xli
irhyvmrk hvieq jvsq xlex jmvwx erh qswx-wegvih gszirerx. M fipmizi izivc
tivwsr mr xlmw gsyrxvc wxmpp fipmiziw xlex ai evi gviexih iuyep erh kmzir
fc syv gviexsv xli vmklx xs pmji, pmfivxc erh xli tyvwymx sj lettmriww.

Xlmw mw e zivc, zivc kviex gsyrxvc erh syv fiwx hecw evi wxmpp xs gsqi.
Xlero csy erh Ksh fpiww csy epp.