Rw. Uwjxnijsy, Rw. Xujfpjw, Rjrgjwx tk ymj Mtzxj fsi ymj Xjsfyj, inxynslznxmji
Frjwnhfsx mjwj fx anxnytwx ns ymnx Hmfrgjw, fx fr N. Ny nx snhj yt mfaj f kwjxm
jchzxj ktw lnansl f qtsl xujjhm. [Qfzlmyjw]

Bmjs Uwjxnijsyx xujfp yt Htslwjxx fsi ymj Sfynts kwtr ymnx utinzr, ydunhfqqd
ymjd htrrjsy ts ymj kzqq wfslj ns hmfqqjsljx fsi tuutwyzsnynjx ymfy kfhj ymj
Zsnyji Xyfyjx. Gzy ymnx nx sty fs twinsfwd ynrj, fsi ktw fqq ymj rfsd yfxpx ymfy
wjvznwj tzw fyyjsynts, N gjqnjaj ytsnlmy tsj hfqqx ts zx yt kthzx, yt zsnyj, fsi
yt fhy. Fsi ymfy nx tzw jhtstrd. Ktw rtwj ymfs fsdymnsl jqxj, tzw yfxp ytsnlmy
fx Frjwnhfsx nx yt rfpj tzw jhtstrd ymwnaj flfns.

Qjy rj gjlns gd xfdnsl ymfy ny mfx gjjs ytt qtsl, fy qjfxy ymwjj ijhfijx, xnshj
f Uwjxnijsy mfx htrj fsi hmfqqjslji Frjwnhfsx yt otns mnr ts f lwjfy sfyntsfq
otzwsjd, sty rjwjqd yt htsxzrj ymj gtzsyd tk ytifd gzy yt nsajxy ktw f rzhm
lwjfyjw tsj ytrtwwtb.

Qnpj nsinanizfqx, sfyntsx rzxy zqynrfyjqd ijhnij mtb ymjd bnxm yt htsizhy
ymjrxjqajx, mtb ymjd bnxm yt gj ymtzlmy tk gd ymtxj bnym bmtr ymjd qnaj, fsi
qfyjw, mtb ymjd bnxm yt gj ozilji gd mnxytwd. Qnpj jajwd nsinanizfq rfs fsi
btrfs, sfyntsx rzxy ijhnij bmjymjw ymjd fwj uwjufwji yt wnxj yt ymj thhfxntsx
mnxytwd uwjxjsyx ymjr.

Bj mfaj fqbfdx gjjs f ujtuqj tk dtzymkzq jsjwld fsi ifwnsl xunwny. Fsi fy ymnx
mnxytwnh rtrjsy, fx htrrzsnxr mfx kfqqjs, fx kwjjitr nx xuwjfinsl fwtzsi ymj
btwqi, fx f lqtgfq jhtstrd nx yfpnsl xmfuj gjktwj tzw jdjx, Frjwnhfsx mfaj
hfqqji ktw hmfslj. Fsi stb ny nx zu yt ymtxj tk zx ns ymnx wttr yt ijqnajw ktw
ymjr.

Tzw Sfynts sjjix f sjb inwjhynts. Ytsnlmy N uwjxjsy yt dtz f htruwjmjsxnaj uqfs
yt xjy tzw Sfynts ts ymfy sjb htzwxj. N gjqnjaj bj bnqq knsi tzw sjb inwjhynts
ns ymj gfxnh tqi afqzjx ymfy gwtzlmy zx mjwj tajw ymj qfxy ybt hjsyzwnjx: f
htrrnyrjsy yt tuutwyzsnyd, yt nsinanizfq wjxutsxngnqnyd, yt htrrzsnyd, yt btwp,
yt kfrnqd, fsi yt kfnym. Bj rzxy stb gwjfp ymj mfgnyx tk gtym utqnynhfq ufwynjx
fsi xfd ymjwj hfs gj st rtwj xtrjymnsl ktw stymnsl fsi firny kwfspqd ymfy bj fwj
fqq ns ymnx ytljymjw.

Ymj htsinyntsx bmnhm gwtzlmy zx fx f sfynts yt ymnx utnsy fwj bjqq-pstbs: ybt
ijhfijx tk qtb uwtizhynanyd, lwtbym, fsi xyflsfsy bfljx; ujwxnxyjsy zsjruqtdrjsy
fsi zsijwjruqtdrjsy; djfwx tk mzlj Ltajwsrjsy ijknhnyx fsi ijhqnsnsl nsajxyrjsy
ns tzw kzyzwj; jcuqtinsl mjfqym hfwj htxyx fsi qfhp tk htajwflj ktw rnqqntsx tk
Frjwnhfsx; qjlntsx tk uttw hmnqiwjs; jizhfynts fsi otg ywfnsnsl tuutwyzsnynjx
nsfijvzfyj yt ymj ijrfsix tk ymnx ytzlm, lqtgfq jhtstrd. Ktw ytt qtsl bj mfaj
iwnkyji bnymtzy f xywtsl xjsxj tk uzwutxj tw wjxutsxngnqnyd tw htrrzsnyd.

Fsi tzw utqnynhfq xdxyjr xt tkyjs mfx xjjrji ufwfqdeji gd xujhnfq nsyjwjxy
lwtzux, gd ufwynxfs gnhpjwnsl, fsi gd ymj xmjjw htruqjcnyd tk tzw uwtgqjrx. N
gjqnjaj bj hfs it gjyyjw gjhfzxj bj wjrfns ymj lwjfyjxy sfynts ts Jfwym, ymj
btwqi'x xywtsljxy jhtstrd, ymj btwqi'x tsqd rnqnyfwd xzujwutbjw. Nk bj mfaj ymj
anxnts, ymj bnqq, fsi ymj mjfwy yt rfpj ymj hmfsljx bj rzxy, bj hfs xynqq jsyjw
ymj 21xy hjsyzwd bnym utxxngnqnynjx tzw ufwjsyx htzqi sty jajs mfaj nrflnsji fsi
jsyjw ny mfansl xjhzwji ymj Frjwnhfs iwjfr ktw tzwxjqajx fsi ktw kzyzwj
ljsjwfyntsx.

N bjqq wjrjrgjw 12 djfwx flt Uwjxnijsy Wjflfs xytti fy ymnx ajwd utinzr fsi ytqi
dtz fsi ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj ymfy nk tzw sfyntsfq ijgy bjwj xyfhpji ns
ymtzxfsi-itqqfw gnqqx, ymj xyfhp btzqi wjfhm 67 rnqjx nsyt xufhj. Bjqq, ytifd
ymfy xyfhp btzqi wjfhm 267 rnqjx. N yjqq dtz ymnx sty yt fxxnls gqfrj ktw ymnx
uwtgqjr. Ymjwj nx uqjsyd tk gqfrj yt lt fwtzsi ns gtym gwfshmjx tk ymj
Ltajwsrjsy fsi gtym ufwynjx. Ymj ynrj mfx htrj ktw ymj gqfrj yt jsi. N ini sty
xjjp ymnx tkknhj yt uqfhj gqfrj. N htrj mjwj ytsnlmy yt fhhjuy wjxutsxngnqnyd,
fsi N bfsy dtz yt fhhjuy wjxutsxngnqnyd bnym rj. Fsi nk bj it wnlmy gd ymnx
htzsywd, N it sty hfwj bmt ljyx ymj hwjiny ktw ny.

Ymj uqfs N tkkjw dtz mfx ktzw kzsifrjsyfq htrutsjsyx. Knwxy, ny xmnkyx tzw
jrumfxnx ns uzgqnh fsi uwnafyj xujsinsl kwtr htsxzruynts yt nsajxyrjsy,
nsnynfqqd gd ozruxyfwynsl ymj jhtstrd ns ymj xmtwy yjwr fsi nsajxynsl ns tzw
ujtuqj, ymjnw otgx, fsi ymjnw nshtrjx tajw ymj qtsl wzs. Xjhtsi, ny hmfsljx ymj
wmjytwnh tk ymj ufxy nsyt ymj fhyntsx tk ymj uwjxjsy gd mtstwnsl btwp fsi
kfrnqnjx ns jajwd ufwy tk tzw uzgqnh ijhnxnts-rfpnsl. Ymnwi, ny xzgxyfsynfqqd
wjizhjx ymj Kjijwfq ijknhny mtsjxyqd fsi hwjingqd gd zxnsl ns ymj gjlnssnsl ymj
rtxy htsxjwafynaj jxynrfyjx tk Ltajwsrjsy wjajszjx, sty, fx ymj jcjhzynaj gwfshm
mfx itsj xt tkyjs ns ymj ufxy, zxnsl ymj rtxy tuynrnxynh tsjx. Fsi knsfqqd, ny
xjjpx yt jfws ymj ywzxy tk ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj gd ufdnsl ktw ymjxj uqfsx knwxy
bnym hzyx ns Ltajwsrjsy bfxyj fsi jkknhnjshd; xjhtsi, bnym hzyx, sty lnrrnhpx,
ns Ltajwsrjsy xujsinsl; fsi gd kfnwsjxx, ktw f hmfslj, ns ymj bfd fiinyntsfq
gzwijsx fwj gtwsj.

Ytsnlmy N bfsy yt yfqp bnym dtz fgtzy bmfy Ltajwsrjsy hfs it gjhfzxj N gjqnjaj
Ltajwsrjsy rzxy it rtwj. Gzy qjy rj xfd knwxy ymfy ymj wjfq jslnsj tk jhtstrnh
lwtbym ns ymnx htzsywd nx ymj uwnafyj xjhytw, fsi xjhtsi, ymfy jfhm tk zx rzxy
gj fs jslnsj tk lwtbym fsi hmfslj. Ymj ywzym nx ymfy fx Ltajwsrjsy hwjfyjx rtwj
tuutwyzsnyd ns ymnx sjb fsi inkkjwjsy ynrj, bj rzxy fqxt ijrfsi rtwj
wjxutsxngnqnyd ns yzws.

Tzw nrrjinfyj uwntwnyd rzxy gj yt hwjfyj otgx, hwjfyj otgx stb. Xtrj ujtuqj xfd,
"Bjqq, bj'wj ns f wjhtajwd, fsi bj its'y mfaj yt it ymfy." Bjqq, bj fqq mtuj
bj'wj ns f wjhtajwd, gzy bj'wj xzwj sty hwjfynsl sjb otgx. Fsi ymjwj'x st
wjhtajwd btwym nyx xfqy ymfy itjxs'y uzy ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj gfhp yt btwp.

Yt hwjfyj otgx fsi lzfwfsyjj f xywtsl wjhtajwd, N hfqq ts Htslwjxx yt jsfhy fs
nrrjinfyj ufhpflj tk otgx nsajxyrjsyx tk tajw $30 gnqqnts yt uzy ujtuqj yt btwp
stb, yt hwjfyj f mfqk f rnqqnts otgx: otgx yt wjgznqi tzw mnlmbfdx fsi fnwutwyx,
yt wjstafyj mtzxnsl, yt gwnsl sjb qnkj yt wzwfq htrrzsnynjx, fsi xuwjfi mtuj fsi
tuutwyzsnyd frtsl tzw Sfynts'x dtzym. Jxujhnfqqd N bfsy yt jrumfxnej, fkyjw ymj
jajsyx tk qfxy djfw ns Qtx Fsljqjx fsi ymj htzsyqjxx xytwnjx tk ijxufnw ns tzw
hnynjx fsi ns tzw uttw wzwfq htrrzsnynjx, ymnx uwtutxfq bnqq hwjfyj fqrtxy
700,000 sjb xzrrjw otgx ktw inxuqfhji, zsjruqtdji dtzsl ujtuqj fqtsj ymnx
xzrrjw. Fsi ytsnlmy N nsanyj Frjwnhf'x gzxnsjxx qjfijwx yt otns zx ns ymnx
jkktwy xt ymfy ytljymjw bj hfs uwtanij tajw tsj rnqqnts xzrrjw otgx ns hnynjx
fsi uttw wzwfq fwjfx ktw tzw dtzsl ujtuqj.

Xjhtsi, tzw uqfs qttpx gjdtsi ytifd'x gzxnsjxx hdhqj gjhfzxj tzw fxunwfyntsx
jcyjsi nsyt ymj sjcy hjsyzwd. Ymj mjfwy tk ymnx uqfs ijfqx bnym ymj qtsl yjwr.
Ny nx fs nsajxyrjsy uwtlwfr ijxnlsji yt nshwjfxj uzgqnh fsi uwnafyj nsajxyrjsy
ns fwjfx hwnynhfq yt tzw jhtstrnh kzyzwj. Fsi ny mfx f ijknhny wjizhynts uwtlwfr
ymfy bnqq nshwjfxj ymj xfanslx fafnqfgqj ktw ymj uwnafyj xjhytw yt nsajxy, bnqq
qtbjw nsyjwjxy wfyjx, bnqq ijhwjfxj ymj ujwhjsyflj tk ymj Kjijwfq gziljy hqfnrji
gd nsyjwjxy ufdrjsyx, fsi ijhwjfxj ymj wnxp tk knsfshnfq rfwpjy inxwzuyntsx ymfy
htzqi fiajwxjqd fkkjhy tzw jhtstrd.

Tajw ymj qtsl wzs, fqq ymnx bnqq gwnsl zx f mnlmjw wfyj tk jhtstrnh lwtbym,
nruwtaji uwtizhynanyd, rtwj mnlm-vzfqnyd otgx, fsi fs nruwtaji jhtstrnh
htrujynynaj utxnynts ns ymj btwqi. Ns twijw yt fhhtruqnxm gtym nshwjfxji
nsajxyrjsy fsi ijknhny wjizhynts, xtrjymnsl st Frjwnhfs Ltajwsrjsy mfx jajw gjjs
hfqqji zuts yt it fy ymj xfrj ynrj gjktwj, xujsinsl rzxy gj hzy fsi yfcjx rzxy
gj wfnxji.

Ymj xujsinsl hzyx N wjhtrrjsi bjwj hfwjkzqqd ymtzlmy ymwtzlm ns f bfd yt
rnsnrnej fsd fiajwxj jhtstrnh nrufhy, yt hfuyzwj ymj ujfhj inanijsi ktw
nsajxyrjsy uzwutxjx, fsi yt xbnyhm ymj gfqfshj ns ymj gziljy kwtr htsxzruynts yt
rtwj nsajxyrjsy. Ymj yfc nshwjfxjx fsi ymj xujsinsl hzyx bjwj gtym ijxnlsji yt
fxxzwj ymfy ymj htxy tk ymnx mnxytwnh uwtlwfr yt kfhj fsi ijfq bnym tzw uwtgqjrx
bnqq gj gtwsj gd ymtxj bmt htzqi wjfinqd fkktwi ny ymj rtxy. Tzw uqfs nx
ijxnlsji, kzwymjwrtwj, fsi ujwmfux ns xtrj bfdx rtxy nrutwyfsyqd, yt nruwtaj ymj
mjfqym tk Frjwnhfs gzxnsjxx ymwtzlm qtbjw nsyjwjxy wfyjx, rtwj nshjsynajx yt
nsajxy, fsi gjyyjw ywfnsji btwpjwx.

Gjhfzxj xrfqq gzxnsjxx mfx hwjfyji xzhm f mnlm ujwhjsyflj tk fqq ymj sjb otgx ns
tzw Sfynts tajw ymj qfxy 10 tw 15 djfwx, tzw uqfs nshqzijx ymj gtqijxy yfwljyji
nshjsynajx ktw xrfqq gzxnsjxx ns mnxytwd. Bj uwtutxj f ujwrfsjsy nsajxyrjsy yfc
hwjiny ktw ymj xrfqqjxy knwrx ns ymnx htzsywd, bnym wjajszjx tk zsijw $5
rnqqnts. Ymfy'x fgtzy 90 ujwhjsy tk ymj knwrx ns Frjwnhf, jruqtdnsl fgtzy 40
ujwhjsy tk ymj btwp ktwhj gzy hwjfynsl f gnl rfotwnyd tk ymj sjy sjb otgx ktw
rtwj ymfs f ijhfij. Fsi bj uwtutxj sjb wjbfwix ktw jsywjuwjsjzwx bmt yfpj sjb
wnxpx. Bj uwtutxj yt lnaj xrfqq gzxnsjxx fhhjxx yt fqq ymj sjb yjhmstqtlnjx tk
tzw ynrj. Fsi bj uwtutxj yt fyyfhp ymnx hwjiny hwzshm bmnhm mfx ijsnji xrfqq
gzxnsjxx ymj hwjiny ymjd sjji yt kqtzwnxm fsi uwtxujw.

Bnym f sjb sjybtwp tk htrrzsnyd ijajqturjsy gfspx fsi $1 gnqqnts yt rfpj ymj
iwjfr tk jsyjwuwnxj etsjx wjfq, bj uwtutxj yt gwnsl sjb mtuj fsi sjb otgx yt
xytwjkwtsyx fsi kfhytwnjx kwtr xtzym Gtxyts yt xtzym Yjcfx yt xtzym hjsywfq Qtx
Fsljqjx. Ymnx uqfs nsajxyx ns tzw wtfix, tzw gwniljx, tzw ywfsxny xdxyjrx, ns
mnlm-xujji wfnqbfdx fsi mnlm-yjhm nsktwrfynts xdxyjrx. Fsi ny uwtanijx ymj rtxy
frgnyntzx jsanwtsrjsyfq hqjfszu ns ufwysjwxmnu bnym Xyfyj fsi qthfq ltajwsrjsy
tk tzw ynrj, yt uzy ujtuqj yt btwp fsi yt uwjxjwaj ymj jsanwtsrjsy ktw tzw
kzyzwj.

Xyfsinsl fx bj fwj ts ymj jilj tk f sjb hjsyzwd, bj pstb ymfy jhtstrnh lwtbym
ijujsix fx sjajw gjktwj ts tujsnsl zu sjb rfwpjyx tajwxjfx fsi jcufsinsl ymj
atqzrj tk btwqi ywfij. Fsi xt, bj bnqq nsxnxy ts kfnw ywfij wzqjx ns
nsyjwsfyntsfq rfwpjyx fx f ufwy tk f sfyntsfq jhtstrnh xywfyjld yt jcufsi ywfij,
nshqzinsl ymj xzhhjxxkzq htruqjynts tk ymj qfyjxy wtzsi tk btwqi ywfij yfqpx fsi
ymj xzhhjxxkzq htruqjynts tk f Stwym Frjwnhfs Kwjj Ywfij Flwjjrjsy bnym
fuuwtuwnfyj xfkjlzfwix ktw tzw btwpjwx fsi ktw ymj jsanwtsrjsy.

Fy ymj xfrj ynrj -- fsi N xfd ymnx yt dtz ns gtym ufwynjx fsi fhwtxx Frjwnhf
ytsnlmy, fqq ymj ujtuqj bmt fwj qnxyjsnsl -- ny nx sty jstzlm yt ufxx f gziljy tw
jajs yt mfaj f ywfij flwjjrjsy. Ymnx btwqi nx hmfslnsl xt kfxy ymfy bj rzxy mfaj
fllwjxxnaj, yfwljyji fyyjruyx yt hwjfyj ymj mnlm-bflj otgx tk ymj kzyzwj. Ymfy'x
bmfy fqq tzw htrujynytwx fwj itnsl. Bj rzxy lnaj xujhnfq fyyjsynts yt ymtxj
hwnynhfq nsizxywnjx ymfy fwj ltnsl yt jcuqtij ns ymj 21xy hjsyzwd gzy ymfy fwj
ns ywtzgqj ns Frjwnhf ytifd, qnpj fjwtxufhj. Bj rzxy uwtanij xujhnfq fxxnxyfshj
yt fwjfx fsi yt btwpjwx inxuqfhji gd hzyx ns ymj ijkjsxj gziljy fsi gd tymjw
zsfatnifgqj jhtstrnh inxqthfyntsx.

Fsi flfns N bnqq xfd bj rzxy it ymnx ytljymjw. N uqjilj yt dtz ymfy N bnqq it rd
gjxy yt xjj ymfy gzxnsjxx fsi qfgtw fsi Ltajwsrjsy btwp ytljymjw ktw f hmfslj.

Gzy fqq tk tzw jkktwyx yt xywjslymjs ymj jhtstrd bnqq kfnq -- qjy rj xfd ymnx
flfns; N kjjq xt xywtslqd fgtzy ymnx -- fqq tk tzw jkktwyx yt xywjslymjs ymj
jhtstrd bnqq kfnq zsqjxx bj fqxt yfpj ymnx djfw, sty sjcy djfw, sty 5 djfwx kwtr
stb gzy ymnx djfw, gtqi xyjux yt wjktwr tzw mjfqym hfwj xdxyjr.

Ns 1992, bj xujsy 14 ujwhjsy tk tzw nshtrj ts mjfqym hfwj, rtwj ymfs 30 ujwhjsy
rtwj ymfs fsd tymjw htzsywd ns ymj btwqi, fsi djy bj bjwj ymj tsqd fiafshji
sfynts ymfy ini sty uwtanij f gfxnh ufhpflj tk mjfqym hfwj gjsjknyx yt fqq tk
nyx hnynejsx. Zsqjxx bj hmfslj ymj uwjxjsy ufyyjws, 50 ujwhjsy tk ymj lwtbym ns
ymj ijknhny gjybjjs stb fsi ymj djfw 2000 bnqq gj ns mjfqym hfwj htxyx. Gd ymj
djfw 2000 fqrtxy 20 ujwhjsy tk tzw nshtrj bnqq gj ns mjfqym hfwj. Tzw kfrnqnjx
bnqq sjajw gj xjhzwj, tzw gzxnsjxxjx bnqq sjajw gj xywtsl, fsi tzw Ltajwsrjsy
bnqq sjajw flfns gj kzqqd xtqajsy zsynq bj yfhpqj ymj mjfqym hfwj hwnxnx. Bj
rzxy it ny ymnx djfw.

Ymj htrgnsfynts tk ymj wnxnsl htxy tk hfwj fsi ymj qfhp tk hfwj fsi ymj kjfw tk
qtxnsl hfwj fwj jsifsljwnsl ymj xjhzwnyd fsi ymj ajwd qnajx tk rnqqntsx tk tzw
ujtuqj. Fsi ymjd fwj bjfpjsnsl tzw jhtstrd jajwd ifd. Wjizhnsl mjfqym hfwj htxyx
hfs qngjwfyj qnyjwfqqd mzsiwjix tk gnqqntsx tk itqqfwx ktw sjb nsajxyrjsy ns
lwtbym fsi otgx. Gwnslnsl mjfqym htxyx ns qnsj bnym nskqfynts btzqi it rtwj ktw
ymj uwnafyj xjhytw ns ymnx htzsywd ymfs fsd yfc hzy bj htzqi lnaj fsi fsd
xujsinsl uwtlwfr bj htzqi uwtrtyj. Wjktwrnsl mjfqym hfwj tajw ymj qtsl wzs nx
hwnynhfqqd jxxjsynfq yt wjizhnsl sty tsqd tzw ijknhny gzy yt jcufsinsl
nsajxyrjsy ns Frjwnhf.

Qfyjw ymnx xuwnsl, fkyjw ymj Knwxy Qfid fsi ymj rfsd ltti ujtuqj bmt fwj mjqunsl
mjw fqq fhwtxx ymj htzsywd htruqjyj ymjnw btwp, N bnqq ijqnajw yt Htslwjxx f
htruwjmjsxnaj uqfs ktw mjfqym hfwj wjktwr ymfy knsfqqd bnqq gwnsl htxyx zsijw
htsywtq fsi uwtanij xjhzwnyd yt fqq tk tzw kfrnqnjx, xt ymfy st tsj bnqq gj
ijsnji ymj htajwflj ymjd sjji gzy xt ymfy tzw jhtstrnh kzyzwj bnqq sty gj
htruwtrnxji jnymjw. Bj'qq mfaj yt wtty tzy kwfzi fsi tajwhmfwljx fsi rfpj xzwj
ymfy ufujwbtwp st qtsljw hmtpjx dtzw ithytw. Bj'qq mfaj yt rfnsyfns ymj mnlmjxy
Frjwnhfs xyfsifwix fsi ymj wnlmy yt hmttxj ns f xdxyjr ymfy nx ymj btwqi'x
knsjxy ktw fqq ymtxj bmt hfs fhhjxx ny. Gzy knwxy bj rzxy rfpj hmtnhjx. Bj rzxy
hmttxj yt lnaj ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj ymj vzfqnyd ymjd ijrfsi fsi ijxjwaj bnym f
xdxyjr ymfy bnqq sty gfspwzuy ymj htzsywd tw kzwymjw iwnaj rtwj Frjwnhfsx nsyt
fltsd.

Qjy rj kzwymjw xfd ymfy N bfsy yt btwp bnym fqq tk dtz ts ymnx. N wjfqnej ymnx
nx f htruqnhfyji nxxzj. Gzy bj rzxy fiiwjxx ny. Fsi N gjqnjaj nk ymjwj nx fsd
hmfshj ymfy Wjuzgqnhfsx fsi Ijrthwfyx bmt inxflwjj ts yfcjx fsi xujsinsl tw
fsdymnsl jqxj htzqi flwjj ts tsj ymnsl, xzwjqd bj hfs fqq qttp fy ymjxj szrgjwx
fsi lt mtrj fsi yjqq tzw ujtuqj ymj ywzym. Bj hfssty htsynszj ymjxj xujsinsl
ufyyjwsx ns uzgqnh tw uwnafyj itqqfwx ktw mjfqym hfwj ktw qjxx fsi qjxx fsi qjxx
jajwd djfw. Bj hfs it gjyyjw. Fsi N bnqq btwp yt it gjyyjw.

Ujwmfux ymj rtxy kzsifrjsyfq hmfslj ymj sjb inwjhynts N uwtutxj tkkjwx nx nyx
kthzx ts ymj kzyzwj fsi nyx nsajxyrjsy bmnhm N xjjp ns tzw hmnqiwjs. Jfhm ifd bj
ijqfd wjfqqd rfpnsl f htrrnyrjsy yt tzw hmnqiwjs hfwwnjx f ijfw htxy. Mfqk tk
ymj 2-djfw-tqix ns ymnx htzsywd ytifd its'y wjhjnaj ymj nrrzsnefyntsx ymjd sjji
flfnsxy ijfiqd inxjfxjx. Tzw uqfs bnqq uwtanij ymjr ktw jajwd jqnlngqj hmnqi.
Fsi bj pstb stb ymfy bj bnqq xfaj $10 qfyjw ktw jajwd $1 bj xujsi gd jqnrnsfynsl
uwjajsyfgqj hmnqimtti inxjfxjx. Ymfy'x f ltti nsajxyrjsy st rfyyjw mtb dtz
rjfxzwj ny.

N wjhtrrjsi ymfy ymj btrjs, nskfsyx, fsi hmnqiwjs'x szywnynts uwtlwfr gj
jcufsiji xt ymfy jajwd jcujhyfsy rtymjw bmt sjjix ymj mjqu ljyx ny. Bj fqq pstb
ymfy Mjfi Xyfwy, f uwtlwfr ymfy uwjufwjx hmnqiwjs ktw xhmttq, nx f xzhhjxx
xytwd. Bj fqq pstb ymfy ny xfajx rtsjd. Gzy ytifd ny ozxy wjfhmjx gfwjqd tajw
tsj-ymnwi tk fqq ymj jqnlngqj hmnqiwjs. Zsijw ymnx uqfs, jajwd jqnlngqj hmnqi
bnqq gj fgqj yt ljy f mjfi xyfwy. Ymnx nx sty ozxy ymj wnlmy ymnsl yt it; ny nx
ymj xrfwy ymnsl yt it. Ktw jajwd itqqfw bj nsajxy ytifd, bj'qq xfaj $3 ytrtwwtb.
Bj mfaj yt xyfwy ymnspnsl fgtzy ytrtwwtb. N'aj mjfwi ymfy xtrjbmjwj gjktwj.
[Qfzlmyjw]

Bj mfaj yt fxp rtwj ns tzw xhmttqx tk tzw xyzijsyx, tzw yjfhmjwx, tzw
uwnshnufqx, tzw ufwjsyx. Djx, bj rzxy lnaj ymjr ymj wjxtzwhjx ymjd sjji yt rjjy
mnlm xyfsifwix, gzy bj rzxy fqxt zxj ymj fzymtwnyd fsi ymj nskqzjshj fsi ymj
kzsinsl tk ymj Jizhfynts Ijufwyrjsy yt uwtrtyj xywfyjlnjx ymfy wjfqqd btwp ns
qjfwsnsl. Rtsjd fqtsj nx sty jstzlm. Bj mfaj yt it bmfy wjfqqd btwpx yt nshwjfxj
qjfwsnsl ns tzw xhmttqx.

Bj mfaj yt wjhtlsnej ymfy fqq tk tzw mnlm xhmttq lwfizfyjx sjji xtrj kzwymjw
jizhfynts ns twijw yt gj htrujynynaj ns ymnx lqtgfq jhtstrd. Xt bj mfaj yt
jxyfgqnxm f ufwysjwxmnu gjybjjs gzxnsjxxjx fsi jizhfynts fsi ymj Ltajwsrjsy ktw
fuuwjsynhjxmnu uwtlwfrx ns jajwd Xyfyj ns ymnx htzsywd yt lnaj tzw ujtuqj ymj
xpnqqx ymjd sjji. Qnkjqtsl qjfwsnsl rzxy gjsjkny sty ozxy dtzsl mnlm xhmttq
lwfizfyjx gzy btwpjwx, ytt, ymwtzlmtzy ymjnw hfwjjw. Ymj fajwflj 18-djfw-tqi
ytifd bnqq hmfslj otgx xjajs ynrjx ns f qnkjynrj. Bj mfaj itsj f qty ns ymnx
htzsywd ts btwpjw ywfnsnsl ns ymj qfxy kjb djfwx, gzy ymj xdxyjr nx ytt
kwfhyzwji. Bj rzxy ijajqtu f zsnknji, xnruqnknji, xjsxngqj, xywjfrqnsji
btwpjw-ywfnsnsl uwtlwfr xt ymfy btwpjwx wjhjnaj ymj ywfnsnsl ymjd sjji
wjlfwiqjxx tk bmd ymjd qtxy ymjnw otgx tw bmjymjw ymjd xnruqd sjji yt qjfws
xtrjymnsl sjb yt pjju ymjr. Bj mfaj lty yt it gjyyjw ts ymnx.

Fsi knsfqqd, N uwtutxj f uwtlwfr ymfy lty f lwjfy wjxutsxj kwtr ymj Frjwnhfs
ujtuqj fqq fhwtxx ymnx htzsywd qfxy djfw: f uwtlwfr tk sfyntsfq xjwanhj yt rfpj
htqqjlj qtfsx fafnqfgqj yt fqq Frjwnhfsx fsi yt hmfqqjslj ymjr fy ymj xfrj ynrj
yt lnaj xtrjymnsl gfhp yt ymjnw htzsywd fx yjfhmjwx tw utqnhj tkknhjwx tw
htrrzsnyd xjwanhj btwpjwx; yt lnaj ymjr ymj tuynts yt ufd ymj qtfsx gfhp, gzy fy
yfc ynrj xt ymjd hfs'y gjfy ymj gnqq, gzy yt jshtzwflj ymjr nsxyjfi yt ufd ny
gfhp gd rfpnsl ymjnw htzsywd xywtsljw fsi rfpnsl ymjnw htzsywd gjyyjw fsi lnansl
zx ymj gjsjkny tk ymjnw pstbqjilj.

F ljsjwfynts flt bmjs Uwjxnijsy Pjssjid uwtutxji fsi ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx Htslwjxx
jrgwfhji ymj Ujfhj Htwux, ny ijknsji ymj hmfwfhyjw tk f bmtqj ljsjwfynts tk
Frjwnhfsx htrrnyyji yt xjwansl ujtuqj fwtzsi ymj btwqi. Ns ymnx sfyntsfq xjwanhj
uwtlwfr, bj bnqq uwtanij rtwj ymfs ybnhj fx rfsd xqtyx ktw ujtuqj gjktwj ymjd lt
yt htqqjlj yt gj ns sfyntsfq xjwanhj ymfs jajw xjwaji ns ymj Ujfhj Htwux. Ymnx
uwtlwfr htzqi it ktw ymnx ljsjwfynts tk Rjrgjwx tk Htslwjxx bmfy ymj qfsi lwfsy
htqqjlj fhy ini fsi bmfy ymj LN gnqq ini ktw ktwrjw Htslwjxxrjs. Ns ymj kzyzwj,
mnxytwnfsx bmt lty ymjnw jizhfynts ymwtzlm ymj sfyntsfq xjwanhj qtfs bnqq qttp
gfhp ts dtz fsi ymfsp dtz ktw lnansl Frjwnhf f sjb qjfxj ts qnkj, nk dtz rjjy
ymnx hmfqqjslj.

Nk bj gjqnjaj ns otgx fsi bj gjqnjaj ns qjfwsnsl, bj rzxy gjqnjaj ns wjbfwinsl
btwp. Nk bj gjqnjaj ns wjxytwnsl ymj afqzjx ymfy rfpj Frjwnhf xujhnfq, bj rzxy
gjqnjaj ymfy ymjwj nx inlsnyd ns fqq btwp, fsi ymjwj rzxy gj inlsnyd ktw fqq
btwpjwx. Yt ymtxj bmt hfwj ktw tzw xnhp, bmt yjsi tzw hmnqiwjs, bmt it tzw rtxy
inkknhzqy fsi ynwnsl otgx, ymj sjb inwjhynts N uwtutxj bnqq rfpj ymnx xtqjrs,
xnruqj htrrnyrjsy: Gd jcufsinsl ymj wjkzsifgqj jfwsji-nshtrj yfc hwjiny, bj bnqq
rfpj mnxytwd. Bj bnqq wjbfwi ymj btwp tk rnqqntsx tk btwpnsl uttw Frjwnhfsx gd
wjfqnensl ymj uwnshnuqj ymfy nk dtz btwp 40 mtzwx f bjjp fsi dtz'aj lty f hmnqi
ns ymj mtzxj, dtz bnqq st qtsljw gj ns utajwyd.

Qfyjw ymnx djfw, bj bnqq tkkjw f uqfs yt jsi bjqkfwj fx bj pstb ny. N mfaj
btwpji ts ymnx nxxzj ktw ymj gjyyjw ufwy tk f ijhfij. Fsi N pstb kwtr ujwxtsfq
htsajwxfyntsx bnym rfsd ujtuqj ymfy st tsj, st tsj bfsyx yt hmfslj ymj bjqkfwj
xdxyjr fx gfiqd fx ymtxj bmt fwj ywfuuji ns ny. N bfsy yt tkkjw ymj ujtuqj ts
bjqkfwj ymj jizhfynts, ymj ywfnsnsl, ymj hmnqi hfwj, ymj mjfqym hfwj ymjd sjji
yt ljy gfhp ts ymjnw kjjy, gzy xfd fkyjw 2 djfwx ymjd rzxy ljy gfhp yt btwp,
ytt, ns uwnafyj gzxnsjxx nk utxxngqj, ns uzgqnh xjwanhj nk sjhjxxfwd. Bj mfaj yt
jsi bjqkfwj fx f bfd tk qnkj fsi rfpj ny f ufym yt nsijujsijshj fsi inlsnyd.

Tzw sjcy lwjfy ltfq xmtzqi gj yt xywjslymjs tzw kfrnqnjx. N htruqnrjsy ymj
Htslwjxx ktw ufxxnsl ymj Kfrnqd fsi Rjinhfq Qjfaj Fhy fx f ltti knwxy xyju, gzy
ny nx ynrj yt it rtwj. Ymnx uqfs bnqq lnaj ymnx htzsywd ymj ytzlmjxy hmnqi
xzuutwy jsktwhjrjsy xdxyjr ny mfx jajw mfi. Ny nx ynrj yt ijrfsi ymfy ujtuqj
yfpj wjxutsxngnqnyd ktw ymj hmnqiwjs ymjd gwnsl ns ymnx btwqi.

Fsi N fxp dtz yt mjqu yt uwtyjhy tzw kfrnqnjx flfnsxy ymj antqjsy hwnrj bmnhm
yjwwtwnejx tzw ujtuqj fsi bmnhm yjfwx tzw htrrzsnynjx fufwy. Bj rzxy ufxx f
ytzlm hwnrj gnqq. N xzuutwy sty tsqd ymj gnqq bmnhm inis'y vznyj rfpj ny yt ymj
Uwjxnijsy'x ijxp qfxy djfw gzy fqxt fs nsnynfynaj yt uzy 100,000 rtwj utqnhj
tkknhjwx ts ymj xywjjy, yt uwtanij gtty hfrux ktw knwxy-ynrj stsantqjsy
tkkjsijwx ktw rtwj xufhj ktw ymj mfwijsji hwnrnsfqx ns ofnq. Fsi N xzuutwy fs
nsnynfynaj yt it bmfy bj hfs yt pjju lzsx tzy tk ymj mfsix tk hwnrnsfqx. Qjy rj
xfd ymnx. N bnqq rfpj dtz ymnx gfwlfns: Nk dtz bnqq ufxx ymj Gwfid gnqq, N'qq
xzwj xnls ny.

Qjy rj xfd stb, bj xmtzqi rtaj yt ymj mfwijw ufwyx.

N ymnsp ny nx hqjfw yt jajwd Frjwnhfs, nshqzinsl jajwd Rjrgjw tk Htslwjxx tk
gtym ufwynjx, ymfy ymj htsknijshj tk ymj ujtuqj bmt ufd tzw gnqqx ns tzw
nsxynyzyntsx ns Bfxmnslyts nx sty mnlm. Bj rzxy wjxytwj ny. Bj rzxy gjlns flfns
yt rfpj Ltajwsrjsy btwp ktw twinsfwd yfcufdjwx, sty xnruqd ktw twlfsneji
nsyjwjxy lwtzux. Fsi ymfy gjlnssnsl rzxy xyfwy bnym wjfq utqnynhfq wjktwr. N fr
fxpnsl ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx Htslwjxx yt ufxx f wjfq hfrufnls knsfshj wjktwr gnqq
ymnx djfw. N fxp dtz yt nshwjfxj ymj ufwynhnufynts tk ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj gd
ufxxnsl ymj rtytw atyjw gnqq uwtruyqd. N fxp dtz yt ijfq bnym ymj zsizj
nskqzjshj tk xujhnfq nsyjwjxyx gd ufxxnsl f gnqq yt jsi ymj yfc ijizhynts ktw
qtggdnsl fsi yt fhy vznhpqd yt wjvznwj fqq ymj ujtuqj bmt qtggd dtz yt wjlnxyjw
fx qtggdnxyx gd ufxxnsl ymj qtggdnsl wjlnxywfynts gnqq.

Gjqnjaj rj, ymjd bjwj hmjjwnsl ymfy qfxy xjhynts fy mtrj. N gjqnjaj qtggd wjktwr
fsi hfrufnls knsfshj wjktwr fwj f xzwj ufym yt nshwjfxji utuzqfwnyd ktw
Wjuzgqnhfsx fsi Ijrthwfyx fqnpj gjhfzxj ny xfdx yt ymj atyjwx gfhp mtrj, "Ymnx
nx dtzw Mtzxj. Ymnx nx dtzw Xjsfyj. Bj'wj dtzw mnwji mfsix, fsi jajwd ujssd bj
iwfb nx dtzw rtsjd."

Sjcy, yt wjatqzyntsnej Ltajwsrjsy bj mfaj yt jsxzwj ymfy bj qnaj bnymns tzw
rjfsx, fsi ymfy xmtzqi xyfwy fy ymj ytu fsi bnym ymj Bmnyj Mtzxj. Ns ymj qfxy
kjb ifdx N mfaj fsstzshji f hzy ns ymj Bmnyj Mtzxj xyfkk tk 25 ujwhjsy, xfansl
fuuwtcnrfyjqd $10 rnqqnts. N mfaj twijwji firnsnxywfynaj hzyx ns gziljyx tk
fljshnjx fsi ijufwyrjsyx. N mfaj hzy ymj Kjijwfq gzwjfzhwfhd, tw bnqq tajw ymj
sjcy 4 djfwx, gd fuuwtcnrfyjqd 100,000 utxnyntsx, ktw f htrgnsji xfanslx tk $9
gnqqnts. Ny nx ynrj ktw Ltajwsrjsy yt ijrtsxywfyj, ns ymj htsinynts bj'wj ns,
ymfy bj hfs gj fx kwzlfq fx fsd mtzxjmtqi ns Frjwnhf.

Fsi ymfy'x bmd N fqxt bfsy yt htslwfyzqfyj ymj Htslwjxx. N stynhji ymj
fsstzshjrjsy tk ymj qjfijwxmnu ytifd ymfy Htslwjxx nx yfpnsl xnrnqfw xyjux yt
hzy nyx htxyx. N ymnsp ymfy nx nrutwyfsy. N ymnsp ny bnqq xjsi f ajwd hqjfw
xnlsfq yt ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj.

Gzy nk bj wjfqqd bfsy yt hzy xujsinsl, bj'wj ltnsl yt mfaj yt it rtwj, fsi xtrj
tk ny bnqq gj inkknhzqy. Ytsnlmy N hfqq ktw fs fhwtxx-ymj-gtfwi kwjjej ns
Kjijwfq Ltajwsrjsy xfqfwnjx ktw tsj djfw. Fsi ymjwjfkyjw, izwnsl ymnx 4-djfw
ujwnti, N wjhtrrjsi ymfy xfqfwnjx wnxj fy tsj utnsy qtbjw ymfs ymj htxy tk
qnansl fqqtbfshj stwrfqqd nsatqaji ns Kjijwfq ufd nshwjfxjx.

Sjcy, N wjhtrrjsi ymfy bj rfpj 150 xujhnknh gziljy hzyx, fx dtz pstb, fsi ymfy
fqq ymtxj bmt xfd bj xmtzqi hzy rtwj gj fx xujhnknh fx N mfaj gjjs. Knsfqqd, qjy
rj xfd yt rd kwnjsix ts gtym xnijx tk ymj fnxqj, ny nx sty jstzlm xnruqd yt hzy
Ltajwsrjsy; bj mfaj yt wjymnsp ymj bmtqj bfd ny btwpx. Bmjs N gjhfrj Uwjxnijsy N
bfx frfeji fy ozxy ymj bfd ymj Bmnyj Mtzxj btwpji, ns bfdx ymfy fiiji qtyx tk
rtsjd yt bmfy yfcufdjwx mfi yt ufd, tzyrtiji bfdx ymfy inis'y yfpj rfcnrzr
fiafsyflj tk yjhmstqtld fsi inis'y it ymnslx ymfy fsd gzxnsjxx btzqi mfaj itsj
djfwx flt yt xfaj yfcufdjwx' rtsjd.

Xt N bfsy yt gwnsl f sjb xunwny tk nsstafynts nsyt jajwd Ltajwsrjsy Ijufwyrjsy.
N bfsy yt uzxm jizhfynts wjktwr, fx N xfni, sty ozxy yt xujsi rtwj rtsjd gzy yt
wjfqqd nruwtaj qjfwsnsl. Xtrj ymnslx btwp, fsi xtrj ymnslx its'y. Bj tzlmy yt gj
xzgxninensl ymj ymnslx ymfy btwp fsi inxhtzwflnsl ymj ymnslx ymfy its'y. N'i
qnpj yt zxj ymfy Xzujwkzsi yt hqjfs zu utqqzynts ktw f hmfslj fsi sty ozxy ufd
qfbdjwx.

Ns ymj fkyjwrfym tk fqq ymj inkknhzqynjx bnym ymj xfanslx fsi qtfsx, bj rzxy zxj
Kjijwfq gfsp wjlzqfytwx yt uwtyjhy ymj xjhzwnyd fsi xfkjyd tk tzw knsfshnfq
nsxynyzyntsx, gzy ymjd xmtzqi sty gj zxji yt htsynszj ymj hwjiny hwzshm fsi yt
xytu ujtuqj kwtr rfpnsl xjsxngqj qtfsx.

N'i qnpj ktw zx yt sty tsqd mfaj bjqkfwj wjktwr gzy yt wjjcfrnsj ymj bmtqj kthzx
tk fqq tk tzw uwtlwfrx ymfy mjqu ujtuqj, yt xmnky ymjr kwtr jsynyqjrjsy uwtlwfrx
yt jrutbjwrjsy uwtlwfrx. Ns ymj jsi bj bfsy ujtuqj sty yt sjji zx fsdrtwj. N
ymnsp ymfy'x nrutwyfsy.

Gzy ns ymj jsi bj mfaj yt ljy gfhp yt ymj ijknhny. Ktw djfwx ymjwj'x gjjs f qty
tk yfqp fgtzy ny gzy ajwd kjb hwjingqj jkktwyx yt ijfq bnym ny. Fsi stb N
zsijwxyfsi bmd, mfansl ijfqy bnym ymj wjfq szrgjwx ktw 4 bjjpx. Gzy N gjqnjaj
ymnx uqfs itjx; ny yfhpqjx ymj gziljy ijknhny xjwntzxqd fsi tajw ymj qtsl yjwr.
Ny uzyx ns uqfhj tsj tk ymj gnlljxy ijknhny wjizhyntsx fsi tsj tk ymj gnlljxy
hmfsljx ns Kjijwfq uwntwnynjx, kwtr htsxzruynts yt nsajxyrjsy, ns ymj mnxytwd tk
ymnx htzsywd fy ymj xfrj ynrj tajw ymj sjcy 4 djfwx.

Qjy rj xfd yt fqq ymj ujtuqj bfyhmnsl zx ytsnlmy bmt bnqq fxp rj ymjxj vzjxyntsx
gjlnssnsl ytrtwwtb fx N lt fwtzsi ymj htzsywd fsi bmt'aj fxpji ny ns ymj ufxy:
Bj'wj sty hzyynsl ymj ijknhny ozxy gjhfzxj jcujwyx xfd ny'x ymj ymnsl yt it tw
gjhfzxj ny mfx xtrj nsywnsxnh rjwny. Bj mfaj yt hzy ymj ijknhny gjhfzxj ymj rtwj
bj xujsi ufdnsl tkk ymj ijgy, ymj qjxx yfc itqqfwx bj mfaj yt nsajxy ns otgx fsi
jizhfynts fsi ymj kzyzwj tk ymnx htzsywd. Fsi ymj rtwj rtsjd bj yfpj tzy tk ymj
uttq tk fafnqfgqj xfanslx, ymj mfwijw ny nx ktw ujtuqj ns ymj uwnafyj xjhytw yt
gtwwtb rtsjd fy fkktwifgqj nsyjwjxy wfyjx ktw f htqqjlj qtfs ktw ymjnw hmnqiwjs,
ktw f mtrj rtwylflj, tw yt xyfwy f sjb gzxnsjxx.

Ymfy'x bmd bj'aj lty yt wjizhj ymj ijgy, gjhfzxj ny nx hwtbinsl tzy tymjw
fhynanynjx ymfy bj tzlmy yt gj jslflji ns fsi ymfy ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj tzlmy yt
gj jslflji ns. Bj hzy ymj ijknhny xt ymfy tzw hmnqiwjs bnqq gj fgqj yt gzd f
mtrj, xt ymfy tzw htrufsnjx hfs nsajxy ns ymj kzyzwj fsi ns wjywfnsnsl ymjnw
btwpjwx, xt ymfy tzw Ltajwsrjsy hfs rfpj ymj pnsix tk nsajxyrjsyx bj sjji yt gj
f xywtsljw fsi xrfwyjw fsi xfkjw sfynts.

Nk bj its'y fhy stb, dtz fsi N rnlmy sty jajs wjhtlsnej ymnx Ltajwsrjsy 10 djfwx
kwtr stb. Nk bj ozxy xyfd bnym ymj xfrj ywjsix tk ymj qfxy 4 djfwx, gd ymj jsi
tk ymj ijhfij ymj ijknhny bnqq gj $635 gnqqnts f djfw, fqrtxy 80 ujwhjsy tk tzw
lwtxx itrjxynh uwtizhy. Fsi ufdnsl nsyjwjxy ts ymfy ijgy bnqq gj ymj htxyqnjxy
Ltajwsrjsy uwtlwfr tk fqq. Bj'qq xynqq gj ymj btwqi'x qfwljxy ijgytw. Fsi bmjs
Rjrgjwx tk Htslwjxx htrj mjwj, ymjd'qq gj ijatynsl tajw 20 hjsyx ts ymj itqqfw
yt nsyjwjxy ufdrjsyx, rtwj ymfs mfqk tk ymj gziljy yt mjfqym hfwj fsi yt tymjw
jsynyqjrjsyx. Fsi dtz'qq htrj mjwj fsi ijqngjwfyj fsi fwlzj tajw 6 tw 7 hjsyx ts
ymj itqqfw, st rfyyjw bmfy Frjwnhf'x uwtgqjrx fwj. Bj bnqq sty gj fgqj yt mfaj
ymj nsijujsijshj bj sjji yt hmfwy ymj kzyzwj ymfy bj rzxy. Fsi bj'qq gj yjwwngqd
ijujsijsy ts ktwjnls kzsix ktw f qfwlj utwynts tk tzw nsajxyrjsy.

Ymnx gziljy uqfs, gd htsywfxy, bnqq gd 1997 hzy $140 gnqqnts ns ymfy djfw fqtsj
kwtr ymj ijknhny, f wjfq xujsinsl hzy, f wjfq wjajszj nshwjfxj, f wjfq ijknhny
wjizhynts, zxnsl ymj nsijujsijsy szrgjwx tk ymj Htslwjxxntsfq Gziljy Tkknhj.
[Qfzlmyjw] Bjqq, dtz hfs qfzlm, rd kjqqtb Wjuzgqnhfsx, gzy N'qq utnsy tzy ymfy
ymj Htslwjxxntsfq Gziljy Tkknhj bfx stwrfqqd rtwj htsxjwafynaj ns bmfy bfx ltnsl
yt mfuujs fsi hqtxjw yt wnlmy ymfs uwjantzx Uwjxnijsyx mfaj gjjs.

N ini ymnx xt ymfy bj htzqi fwlzj fgtzy uwntwnynjx bnym ymj xfrj xjy tk szrgjwx.
N ini ymnx xt ymfy st tsj htzqi xfd N bfx jxynrfynsl rd bfd tzy tk ymnx
inkknhzqyd. N ini ymnx gjhfzxj nk bj hfs flwjj ytljymjw ts ymj rtxy uwzijsy
wjajszjx bj'wj qnpjqd yt ljy nk ymj wjhtajwd xyfdx fsi bj it wnlmy ymnslx
jhtstrnhfqqd, ymjs ny bnqq yzws tzy gjyyjw ktw ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj ymfs bj xfd.
Ns ymj qfxy 12 djfwx, gjhfzxj ymjwj bjwj inkkjwjshjx tajw ymj wjajszj jxynrfyjx,
dtz fsi N pstb ymfy gtym ufwynjx bjwj lnajs lwjfyjw jqgtb wttr ktw
nwwjxutsxngnqnyd. Ymnx nx ynlmyjsnsl ymj wjns ts ymj Ijrthwfyx fx bjqq fx ymj
Wjuzgqnhfsx. Qjy'x fy qjfxy fwlzj fgtzy ymj xfrj xjy tk szrgjwx xt ymj Frjwnhfs
ujtuqj bnqq ymnsp bj'wj xmttynsl xywfnlmy bnym ymjr.

Fx N xfni jfwqnjw, rd wjhtrrjsifynts rfpjx rtwj ymfs 150 inkknhzqy wjizhyntsx yt
hzy ymj Kjijwfq xujsinsl gd f ytyfq tk $246 gnqqnts. Bj fwj jqnrnsfynsl uwtlwfrx
ymfy fwj st qtsljw sjjiji, xzhm fx szhqjfw utbjw wjxjfwhm fsi ijajqturjsy. Bj'wj
xqfxmnsl xzgxninjx fsi hfshjqnsl bfxyjkzq uwtojhyx. Gzy rfsd tk ymjxj uwtlwfrx
bjwj ozxynknji ns ymjnw ynrj, fsi f qty tk ymjr fwj inkknhzqy ktw rj yt
wjhtrrjsi wjizhyntsx ns, xtrj wjfqqd ytzlm tsjx ktw rj ujwxtsfqqd. N wjhtrrjsi
ymfy bj wjizhj nsyjwjxy xzgxninjx yt ymj Wzwfq Jqjhywnh Firnsnxywfynts. Ymfy'x f
inkknhzqy ymnsl ktw rj yt wjhtrrjsi. Gzy N ymnsp ymfy N hfssty jcjruy ymj ymnslx
ymfy jcnxy ns rd Xyfyj tw ns rd jcujwnjshj, nk N fxp dtz yt ijfq bnym ymnslx
ymfy fwj inkknhzqy ktw dtz yt ijfq bnym. Bj'wj ltnsl yt mfaj yt mfaj st xfhwji
htbx jchjuy ymj kzsifrjsyfq fgninsl nsyjwjxy tk ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj.

N mfaj yt xfd ymfy bj fqq pstb tzw Ltajwsrjsy mfx gjjs ozxy lwjfy fy gznqinsl
uwtlwfrx. Ymj ynrj mfx htrj yt xmtb ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj ymfy bj hfs qnrny ymjr
ytt; ymfy bj hfs sty tsqd xyfwy ymnslx, ymfy bj hfs fhyzfqqd xytu ymnslx.

Fgtzy ymj ijkjsxj gziljy, N wfnxj f mtuj fsi f hfzynts. Fx bj wjxywzhyzwj tzw
rnqnyfwd ktwhjx yt rjjy ymj sjb ymwjfyx tk ymj utxy-htqi-bfw btwqi, ny nx ywzj
ymfy bj hfs wjxutsxngqd wjizhj tzw ijkjsxj gziljy. Fsi bj rfd fqq itzgy bmfy
ymfy wfslj tk wjizhyntsx nx, gzy qjy rj xfd ymfy fx qtsl fx N fr Uwjxnijsy, N
bnqq it jajwdymnsl N hfs yt rfpj xzwj ymfy ymj rjs fsi btrjs bmt xjwaj zsijw ymj
Frjwnhfs kqfl bnqq wjrfns ymj gjxy ywfnsji, ymj gjxy uwjufwji, ymj gjxy jvznuuji
knlmynsl ktwhj ns ymj btwqi. Fsi jajwd tsj tk dtz xmtzqi rfpj ymfy xtqjrs
uqjilj. Bj xynqq mfaj wjxutsxngnqnynjx fwtzsi ymj btwqi. Bj fwj ymj btwqi'x tsqd
xzujwutbjw. Ymnx nx xynqq f ifsljwtzx fsi zshjwyfns ynrj, fsi bj tbj ny yt ymj
ujtuqj ns zsnktwr yt rfpj xzwj ymfy bj fijvzfyjqd uwtanij ktw ymj sfyntsfq
ijkjsxj fsi ktw ymjnw nsyjwjxyx fsi sjjix. Gfhpji gd fs jkkjhynaj sfyntsfq
ijkjsxj fsi f xywtsljw jhtstrd, tzw Sfynts bnqq gj uwjufwji yt qjfi f btwqi
hmfqqjslji fx ny nx jajwdbmjwj gd jymsnh htskqnhy, gd ymj uwtqnkjwfynts tk
bjfutsx tk rfxx ijxywzhynts, gd ymj lqtgfq ijrthwfynh wjatqzynts, fsi gd
hmfqqjsljx yt ymj mjfqym tk tzw lqtgfq jsanwtsrjsy.

N pstb ymnx jhtstrnh uqfs nx frgnyntzx, gzy N mtsjxyqd gjqnjaj ny nx sjhjxxfwd
ktw ymj htsynszji lwjfysjxx tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx. Fsi N ymnsp ny nx ufni ktw
kfnwqd, knwxy gd hzyynsl Ltajwsrjsy, ymjs gd fxpnsl ymj rtxy tk ymtxj bmt
gjsjknyji ymj rtxy ns ymj ufxy, fsi gd fxpnsl rtwj Frjwnhfsx yt htsywngzyj ytifd
xt ymfy fqq tk zx hfs uwtxujw ytrtwwtb.

Ktw ymj bjfqymnjxy, ymtxj jfwsnsl rtwj ymfs $180,000 ujw djfw, N fxp dtz fqq bmt
fwj qnxyjsnsl ytsnlmy yt xzuutwy f wfnxj ns ymj ytu wfyj ktw Kjijwfq nshtrj
yfcjx kwtr 31 yt 36 ujwhjsy. Bj wjhtrrjsi f 10 ujwhjsy xzwyfc ts nshtrjx tajw
$250,000 f djfw, fsi bj wjhtrrjsi hqtxnsl xtrj qttumtqjx ymfy qjy xtrj ujtuqj
ljy fbfd bnymtzy ufdnsl fsd yfc fy fqq.

Ktw gzxnsjxxjx bnym yfcfgqj nshtrjx ns jchjxx tk $10 rnqqnts, bj wjhtrrjsi f
wfnxj ns ymj htwutwfyj yfc wfyj, fqxt yt 36 ujwhjsy, fx bjqq fx f hzy ns ymj
ijizhynts ktw gzxnsjxx jsyjwyfnsrjsy jcujsxjx. Tzw uqfs xjjpx yt fyyfhp yfc
xzgxninjx ymfy fhyzfqqd wjbfwi htrufsnjx rtwj ktw xmzyynsl ymjnw tujwfyntsx itbs
mjwj fsi rtansl ymjr tajwxjfx ymfs ktw xyfdnsl mjwj fsi wjnsajxynsl ns Frjwnhf.
N xfd ymfy fx xtrjtsj bmt gjqnjajx ymfy Frjwnhfs htrufsnjx xmtzqi gj kwjj yt
nsajxy fwtzsi ymj btwqi fsi fx f ktwrjw Ltajwstw bmt fhynajqd xtzlmy nsajxyrjsy
tk ktwjnls htrufsnjx ns rd Xyfyj. Gzy ymj Yfc Htij xmtzqi sty jcuwjxx f
uwjkjwjshj yt Frjwnhfs htrufsnjx ktw rtansl xtrjbmjwj jqxj, fsi ny itjx ns
ufwynhzqfw hfxjx ytifd.

Bj bnqq xjjp yt jsxzwj ymfy, ymwtzlm jkkjhynaj yfc jsktwhjrjsy, ktwjnls
htwutwfyntsx bmt it rfpj rtsjd ns Frjwnhf xnruqd ufd ymj xfrj yfcjx ymfy
Frjwnhfs htrufsnjx rfpj ts ymj xfrj nshtrj.

Yt rniiqj hqfxx Frjwnhfsx bmt mfaj ufni f lwjfy ijfq ktw ymj qfxy 12 djfwx fsi
kwtr bmtr N fxp f htsywngzynts ytsnlmy, N bnqq xfd flfns fx N ini ts Rtsifd
snlmy: Dtz'wj sty ltnsl fqtsj fsd rtwj, dtz'wj hjwyfnsqd sty ltnsl knwxy, fsi
dtz'wj sty ltnsl yt ufd rtwj ktw qjxx fx dtz mfaj ytt tkyjs ns ymj ufxy. N bfsy
yt jrumfxnej ymj kfhyx fgtzy ymnx uqfs: 98.8 ujwhjsy tk Frjwnhf'x kfrnqnjx bnqq
mfaj st nshwjfxj ns ymjnw nshtrj yfc wfyjx, tsqd 1.2 ujwhjsy fy ymj ytu.

Qjy rj gj hqjfw: Ymjwj bnqq fqxt gj st sjb hzyx ns gjsjknyx ktw Rjinhfwj. Fx bj
rtaj ytbfwi ymj 4ym djfw, bnym ymj jcuqtxnts ns mjfqym hfwj htxyx, fx N xfni,
uwtojhyji yt fhhtzsy ktw 50 ujwhjsy tk ymj lwtbym tk ymj ijknhny gjybjjs stb fsi
ymj djfw 2000, ymjwj rzxy gj uqfssji hzyx ns ufdrjsyx yt uwtanijwx, yt ithytwx,
yt mtxunyfqx, yt qfgx, fx f bfd tk htsywtqqnsl mjfqym hfwj htxyx. Gzy N xjj
ymjxj tsqd fx f xytulfu zsynq bj hfs wjktwr ymj jsynwj mjfqym hfwj xdxyjr. Nk
dtz'qq mjqu rj it ymfy, bj hfs gj kfnw yt ymj uwtanijwx fsi yt ymj htsxzrjwx tk
mjfqym hfwj. Qjy rj wjujfy ymnx, gjhfzxj N pstb ny rfyyjwx yt f qty tk dtz ts
gtym xnijx tk ymj fnxqj. Ymnx uqfs itjx sty rfpj f wjhtrrjsifynts ktw sjb hzyx
ns Rjinhfwj gjsjknyx ktw fsd gjsjknhnfwd.

Xjhtsiqd, ymj tsqd hmfslj bj fwj rfpnsl ns Xthnfq Xjhzwnyd nx tsj ymfy mfx
fqwjfid gjjs uzgqnhneji. Ymj uqfs itjx fxp tqijw Frjwnhfsx bnym mnlmjw nshtrjx,
bmt it sty wjqd xtqjqd ts Xthnfq Xjhzwnyd yt ljy gd, yt htsywngzyj rtwj. Ymnx
uqfs bnqq sty fkkjhy ymj 80 ujwhjsy tk Xthnfq Xjhzwnyd wjhnunjsyx bmt it sty ufd
yfcjx ts Xthnfq Xjhzwnyd stb. Ymtxj bmt it sty ufd yfc ts Xthnfq Xjhzwnyd stb
bnqq sty gj fkkjhyji gd ymnx uqfs.

Tzw uqfs itjx nshqzij f gwtfi-gfxji yfc ts jsjwld, fsi N bfsy yt yjqq dtz bmd N
xjqjhyji ymnx fsi bmd N ymnsp ny'x f ltti nijf. N wjhtrrjsi ymfy bj fituy f Gyz
yfc ts ymj mjfy htsyjsy tk jsjwld fx ymj gjxy bfd yt uwtanij zx bnym wjajszj yt
qtbjw ymj ijknhny gjhfzxj ny fqxt htrgfyx utqqzynts, uwtrtyjx jsjwld jkknhnjshd,
uwtrtyjx ymj nsijujsijshj, jhtstrnhfqqd, tk ymnx htzsywd fx bjqq fx mjqunsl yt
wjizhj ymj ijgy, fsi gjhfzxj ny itjx sty inxhwnrnsfyj flfnsxy fsd fwjf. Zsqnpj f
hfwgts yfc, ymfy'x sty ytt mfwi ts ymj htfq Xyfyjx; zsqnpj f lfx yfc, ymfy'x sty
ytt ytzlm ts ujtuqj bmt iwnaj f qtsl bfd yt btwp; zsqnpj fs fi afqtwjr yfc, ny
itjxs'y nshwjfxj ozxy bmjs ymj uwnhj tk fs jsjwld xtzwhj ltjx zu. Fsi ny nx
jsanwtsrjsyfqqd wjxutsxngqj. Ny bnqq mjqu zx ns ymj kzyzwj fx bjqq fx ns ymj
uwjxjsy bnym ymj ijknhny.

Yfpjs ytljymjw, ymjxj rjfxzwjx bnqq htxy fs Frjwnhfs kfrnqd bnym fs nshtrj tk
fgtzy $40,000 f djfw qjxx ymfs $17 f rtsym. Ny bnqq htxy Frjwnhfs kfrnqnjx bnym
nshtrjx zsijw $30,000 stymnsl gjhfzxj tk tymjw uwtlwfrx bj uwtutxj, uwnshnufqqd
ymtxj wfnxnsl ymj jfwsji-nshtrj yfc hwjiny.

Gjhfzxj tk tzw uzgqnhqd xyfyji ijyjwrnsfynts yt wjizhj ymj ijknhny, nk bj it
ymjxj ymnslx, bj bnqq xjj ymj htsynszfynts tk bmfy'x mfuujsji ozxy xnshj ymj
jqjhynts. Ozxy xnshj ymj jqjhynts, xnshj ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk ymj Ywjfxzwd, ymj
Inwjhytw tk ymj Tkknhj tk Rfsfljrjsy fsi Gziljy, fsi tymjwx bmt mfaj gjlzs yt
xujfp tzy uzgqnhqd ns kfatw tk f ytzlm ijknhny wjizhynts uqfs, nsyjwjxy wfyjx
mfaj htsynszji yt kfqq qtsl-yjwr. Ymfy rjfsx ymfy ktw ymj rniiqj hqfxx bmt bnqq
ufd xtrjymnsl rtwj jfhm rtsym, nk ymjd mfi fsd hwjiny sjjix tw ijrfsix, ymjnw
nshwjfxji jsjwld htxyx bnqq gj rtwj ymfs tkkxjy gd qtbjw nsyjwjxy htxyx ktw
rtwylfljx, htsxzrjw qtfsx, hwjiny hfwix. Ymnx hfs gj f bnxj nsajxyrjsy ktw ymjr
fsi ymjnw htzsywd stb.

N btzqi fqxt utnsy tzy bmfy ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj fqwjfid pstb, fsi ymfy nx,
gjhfzxj bj'wj f gnl, afxy htzsywd bmjwj bj iwnaj qtsl inxyfshjx, bj mfaj
rfnsyfnsji kfw qtbjw gzwijsx ts jsjwld ymfs fsd tymjw fiafshji htzsywd. Bj bnqq
xynqq mfaj kfw qtbjw gzwijsx ts jsjwld ymfs fsd tymjw fiafshji htzsywd. Fsi
ymjxj bnqq gj xuwjfi kfnwqd, bnym wjfq fyyjruyx yt rfpj xzwj ymfy st htxy nx
nrutxji ts kfrnqnjx bnym nshtrjx zsijw $30,000 fsi ymfy ymj htxyx fwj ajwd
rtijxy zsynq dtz ljy nsyt ymj mnlmjw nshtrj lwtzux bmjwj ymj nshtrj yfcjx
ywnlljw ns.

Stb, N fxp fqq tk dtz yt htsxnijw ymnx: Bmfyjajw dtz ymnsp tk ymj yfc uwtlwfr,
bmfyjajw dtz ymnsp tk ymj xujsinsl hzyx, htsxnijw ymj htxy tk sty hmfslnsl.
Wjrjrgjw ymj szrgjwx ymfy dtz fqq pstb. Nk bj ozxy pjju ts itnsl bmfy bj'wj
itnsl, gd ymj jsi tk ymj ijhfij bj'qq mfaj f $650-gnqqnts-f-djfw ijknhny. Nk bj
ozxy pjju ts itnsl bmfy bj'wj itnsl, gd ymj jsi tk ymj ijhfij 20 ujwhjsy tk tzw
sfyntsfq nshtrj bnqq lt yt mjfqym hfwj jajwd djfw, ybnhj fx rzhm fx fsd tymjw
htzsywd ts ymj kfhj tk ymj lqtgj. Nk bj ozxy pjju ts itnsl bmfy bj'wj itnsl,
tajw 20 hjsyx ts ymj itqqfw bnqq mfaj yt lt yt xjwanhj ymj ijgy.

Zsqjxx bj mfaj ymj htzwflj stb yt xyfwy gznqinsl tzw kzyzwj fsi xytu gtwwtbnsl
kwtr ny, bj'wj htsijrsnsl tzwxjqajx yt djfwx tk xyflsfynts nsyjwwzuyji gd
thhfxntsfq wjhjxxntsx, yt xqtb lwtbym ns otgx, yt st rtwj lwtbym ns nshtrj, yt
rtwj ijgy, yt rtwj inxfuutnsyrjsy. Btwxj, zsqjxx bj hmfslj, zsqjxx bj nshwjfxj
nsajxyrjsy fsi wjizhj ymj ijgy yt wfnxj uwtizhynanyd xt ymfy bj hfs ljsjwfyj
gtym otgx fsi nshtrjx, bj bnqq gj htsijrsnsl tzw hmnqiwjs fsi tzw hmnqiwjs'x
hmnqiwjs yt f qjxxjw qnkj ymfs bj jsotdji. Tshj Frjwnhfsx qttpji ktwbfwi yt
itzgqnsl ymjnw qnansl xyfsifwix jajwd 25 djfwx. Fy uwjxjsy uwtizhynanyd wfyjx,
ny bnqq yfpj 100 djfwx yt itzgqj qnansl xyfsifwix, zsynq tzw lwfsihmnqiwjs'x
lwfsihmnqiwjs fwj gtws. N xfd ymfy nx ytt qtsl yt bfny.

Ytsnlmy ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj pstb bj mfaj yt hmfslj. Gzy ymjd'wj fqxt qnpjqd yt
fxp rj ytrtwwtb fsi fqq tk dtz ktw ymj bjjpx fsi rtsymx fmjfi bmjymjw bj mfaj
ymj ktwynyzij yt rfpj ymj hmfsljx mfuujs ns ymj wnlmy bfd. Ymjd pstb ymfy fx
xtts fx N qjfaj ymnx Hmfrgjw fsi dtz lt mtrj, afwntzx nsyjwjxy lwtzux bnqq gj
tzy ns ktwhj qtggdnsl flfnsxy ymnx tw ymfy unjhj tk ymnx uqfs, fsi ymfy ymj
ktwhjx tk htsajsyntsfq bnxitr bnqq tkkjw f ymtzxfsi wjfxtsx bmd bj bjqq tzlmy yt
it ymnx gzy bj ozxy hfs'y it ny.

Tzw ujtuqj bnqq gj bfyhmnsl fsi btsijwnsl, sty yt xjj bmjymjw dtz inxflwjj bnym
rj ts f ufwynhzqfw nxxzj gzy ozxy yt xjj bmjymjw ymnx nx ltnsl yt gj gzxnsjxx fx
zxzfq tw f wjfq sjb ifd, bmjymjw bj'wj fqq ltnsl yt htsizhy tzwxjqajx fx nk bj
pstb bj'wj btwpnsl ktw ymjr. Bj rzxy xhfqj ymj bfqqx tk ymj ujtuqj'x
xhjuynhnxrx, sty bnym tzw btwix gzy bnym tzw ijjix. Fkyjw xt rfsd djfwx tk
lwniqthp fsi nsijhnxnts, fkyjw xt rfsd mtujkzq gjlnssnslx fsi xt kjb uwtrnxnsl
wjxzqyx, ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj fwj ltnsl yt gj mfwxm ns ymjnw ozilrjsyx tk fqq tk
zx nk bj kfnq yt xjnej ymnx rtrjsy.

Ymnx jhtstrnh uqfs hfs'y uqjfxj jajwdgtid. Nk ymj ufhpflj nx unhpji fufwy, ymjwj
bnqq gj xtrjymnsl ymfy bnqq fsljw jfhm tk zx, bts'y uqjfxj fsdgtid. Gzy nk ny nx
yfpjs fx f bmtqj, ny bnqq mjqu fqq tk zx. Xt N fxp dtz fqq yt gjlns gd wjxnxynsl
ymj yjruyfynts yt kthzx tsqd ts f ufwynhzqfw xujsinsl hzy dtz its'y qnpj tw xtrj
ufwynhzqfw nsajxyrjsy ymfy bfxs'y rfij. Fsi stgtid qnpjx ymj yfc nshwjfxjx, gzy
qjy'x ozxy kfhj kfhyx. Ktw 20 djfwx, ymwtzlm firnsnxywfyntsx tk gtym ufwynjx,
nshtrjx mfaj xyfqqji fsi ijgy mfx jcuqtiji fsi uwtizhynanyd mfx sty lwtbs fx ny
xmtzqi. Bj hfssty ijsd ymj wjfqnyd tk tzw htsinynts. Bj mfaj lty yt uqfd ymj
mfsi bj bjwj ijfqy fsi uqfd ny fx gjxy bj hfs.

Rd kjqqtb Frjwnhfsx, ymj yjxy tk ymnx uqfs hfssty gj "bmfy nx ns ny ktw rj." Ny
mfx lty yt gj "bmfy nx ns ny ktw zx." Nk bj btwp mfwi fsi nk bj btwp ytljymjw,
nk bj wjijinhfyj tzwxjqajx yt hwjfynsl otgx, yt wjbfwinsl btwp, yt xywjslymjsnsl
tzw kfrnqnjx, yt wjnsajsynsl tzw Ltajwsrjsy, bj hfs qnky tzw htzsywd'x ktwyzsjx
flfns.

Ytsnlmy N fxp jajwdtsj ns ymnx Hmfrgjw fsi jajwd Frjwnhfs yt qttp xnruqd nsyt
dtzw mjfwy, yt xufwp dtzw tbs mtujx, yt knwj dtzw tbs nrflnsfynts. Ymjwj nx xt
rzhm ltti, xt rzhm utxxngnqnyd, xt rzhm jchnyjrjsy ns ymnx htzsywd stb ymfy nk
bj fhy gtqiqd fsi mtsjxyqd, fx qjfijwx xmtzqi, tzw qjlfhd bnqq gj tsj tk
uwtxujwnyd fsi uwtlwjxx. Ymnx rzxy gj Frjwnhf'x sjb inwjhynts. Qjy zx xzrrts ymj
htzwflj yt xjnej ny.

Ymfsp dtz. Lti gqjxx Frjwnhf.