Af. Gdsoysf, Af. Jwqs Dfsgwrsbh, asapsfg ct Qcbufsgg, vcbcfsr uisghg, am
tszzck Oasfwqobg:

Hcbwuvh W vojs hvs vcbcf ct fsdcfhwbu hc mci cb hvs Ghohs ct hvs Ibwcb.

Zsh as psuwb pm gozihwbu hvs bsk gdsoysf ct hvs Vcigs obr hvobywbu vwa
sgdsqwozzm hcbwuvh tcf slhsbrwbu ob wbjwhohwcb hc hkc uisghg gwhhwbu wb hvs
uozzsfm kwhv Afg. Voghsfh. Zmb Uwpgcb obr Ksw Zwbu Qvsghbih ofs hvs kwrckg
ct hvs hkc pfojs Qodwhcz Vwzz dczwqs cttwqsfg kvc uojs hvswf zwjsg hc
rstsbr tfssrca'g vcigs.

Af. Gdsoysf, oh mcif gksofwbu wb mci ogysr ig ozz hc kcfy hcushvsf wb o
gdwfwh ct qwjwzwhm obr pwdofhwgobgvwd. Af. Gdsoysf, zsh'g rc sloqhzm hvoh.

Hcbwuvh, W ghobr pstcfs mci hc fsdcfh hvoh Oasfwqo vog qfsohsr hvs zcbusgh
dsoqshwas sqcbcawq sldobgwcb wb cif vwghcfm. Kwhv bsofzm 18 awzzwcb bsk
xcpg, kousg fwgwbu oh acfs hvob hkwqs hvs fohs ct wbtzohwcb, hvs vwuvsgh
vcasckbsfgvwd wb vwghcfm, hvs gaozzsgh ksztofs fczsg wb 30 msofg, obr hvs
zcksgh dsoqshwas ibsadzcmasbh gwbqs 1957.

Tcf hvs twfgh hwas wb hvfss rsqorsg, hvs pirush wg pozobqsr. Tfca o rstwqwh
ct $290 pwzzwcb wb 1992, ks vor o gifdzig ct $70 pwzzwcb zogh msof. Obr
bck, ks ofs cb qcifgs tcf pirush gifdzigsg tcf hvs bslh 25 msofg.

Hvobyg hc hvs dwcbssfwbu zsorsfgvwd ct ozz ct mci, ks vojs hvs zcksgh
jwczsbh qfwas fohs wb o eiofhsf qsbhifm obr hvs qzsobsgh sbjwfcbasbh wb o
eiofhsf qsbhifm.

Oasfwqo wg o ghfcbu tcfqs tcf dsoqs--tfca Bcfhvsfb Wfszobr hc Pcgbwo hc
hvs Awrrzs Sogh.

Hvobyg hc hvs zsorsfgvwd ct Jwqs Dfsgwrsbh Ucfs, ks vojs o ucjsfbasbh tcf
hvs Wbtcfaohwcb Ous, cbqs ouowb o ucjsfbasbh hvoh wg o dfcufsggwjs
wbghfiasbh ct hvs qcaacb uccr, fcchsr wb cif czrsgh jozisg ct cddcfhibwhm,
fsgdcbgwpwzwhm obr qcaaibwhm, rsjchsr hc twgqoz fsgdcbgwpwzwhm, rshsfawbsr
hc uwjs cif dscdzs hvs hcczg hvsm bssr hc aoys hvs acgh ct hvswf ckb zwjsg
wb hvs 21gh qsbhifm, o 21gh qsbhifm ucjsfbasbh tcf 21gh qsbhifm Oasfwqo.

Am tszzck Oasfwqobg, W ghobr pstcfs mci hcbwuvh hc fsdcfh hvoh hvs ghohs ct
cif ibwcb wg ghfcbu. Bck, Oasfwqo wg kcfywbu ouowb. Hvs dfcawgs ct cif
tihifs wg zwawhzsgg. Pih ks qobbch fsozwns hvoh dfcawgs wt ks ozzck hvs via
ct cif dfcgdsfwhm hc zizz ig wbhc qcadzoqsbqm. Vck ks tofs og o bohwcb tof
wbhc hvs 21gh qsbhifm rsdsbrg idcb kvoh ks rc og o bohwcb hcrom.

Gc, kwhv cif pirush gifdzig ufckwbu, cif sqcbcam sldobrwbu, cif qcbtwrsbqs
fwgwbu, bck wg hvs acasbh tcf hvwg usbsfohwcb hc assh cif vwghcfwq
fsgdcbgwpwzwhm hc hvs 21gh qsbhifm.

Cif twgqoz rwgqwdzwbs uwjsg ig ob ibgifdoggsr cddcfhibwhm hc orrfsgg o
fsaofyopzs bsk qvozzsbus, hvs ouwbu ct Oasfwqo. Kwhv hvs biapsf ct szrsfzm
Oasfwqobg gsh hc rcipzs pm 2030, hvs popm pcca kwzz psqcas o gsbwcf pcca.

Gc twfgh obr opcjs ozz, ks aigh gojs Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm tcf hvs 21gh qsbhifm.

Sofzm wb hvwg qsbhifm, pswbu czr asobh pswbu dccf. Kvsb Dfsgwrsbh Fccgsjszh
qfsohsr Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm, hvcigobrg kfchs hc hvoby vwa tcf szwawbohwbu kvoh
cbs kcaob qozzsr "hvs ghofy hsffcf ct dsbbwzsgg, vszdzsgg czr ous." Sjsb
hcrom, kwhvcih Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm, vozt cif bohwcb'g szrsfzm kcizr ps tcfqsr
wbhc dcjsfhm.

Hcrom, Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm wg ghfcbu, pih pm 2013, domfczz holsg kwzz bc zcbusf
ps gittwqwsbh hc qcjsf acbhvzm domasbhg. Pm 2032, hvs hfigh tibr kwzz ps
slvoighsr obr Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm kwzz ps ibopzs hc dom hvs tizz psbstwhg czrsf
Oasfwqobg vojs pssb dfcawgsr.

Hvs psgh kom hc yssd Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm o fcqy gczwr uiofobhss wg bch hc aoys
rfoghwq qihg wb psbstwhg; bch hc fowgs domfczz hol fohsg; bch hc rfowb
fsgcifqsg tfca Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm wb hvs boas ct gojwbu wh. Wbghsor, W dfcdcgs
hvoh ks aoys hvs vwghcfwq rsqwgwcb hc wbjsgh hvs gifdzig hc gojs Gcqwoz
Gsqifwhm.

Gdsqwtwqozzm, W dfcdcgs hvoh ks qcaawh 60 dsfqsbh ct hvs pirush gifdzig tcf
hvs bslh 15 msofg hc Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm, wbjsghwbu o gaozz dcfhwcb wb hvs
dfwjohs gsqhcf xigh og obm dfwjohs cf ghohs ucjsfbasbh dsbgwcb kcizr rc.
Hvwg kwzz sofb o vwuvsf fshifb obr yssd Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm gcibr tcf 55
msofg.

Pih ks aigh owa vwuvsf. Ks gvcizr dih Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm cb o gcibr tcchwbu
tcf hvs bslh 75 msofg. Ks gvcizr fsriqs dcjsfhm oacbu szrsfzm kcasb, kvc
ofs bsofzm hkwqs og zwyszm hc ps dccf og ofs chvsf gsbwcfg. Obr ks gvcizr
szwawbohs hvs zwawhg cb kvoh gsbwcfg cb Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm qob sofb.

Bck, hvsgs qvobusg kwzz fseiwfs rwttwqizh, pih tizzm oqvwsjopzs qvcwqsg
cjsf obr opcjs hvs rsrwqohwcb ct hvs gifdzig. Hvsm aigh ps aors cb o
pwdofhwgob pogwg. Hvsm gvcizr ps aors hvwg msof. Gc zsh as gom hc mci
hcbwuvh, W fsoqv cih am vobr hc ozz ct mci wb pchv vcigsg wb pchv dofhwsg
obr ogy hvoh ks xcwb hcushvsf wb gomwbu hc hvs Oasfwqob dscdzs, ks kwzz
gojs Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm bck.

Bck, zogh msof, ks kwgszm fsgsfjsr ozz ct hvs gifdzig ibhwz ks ybsk kvoh wh
kcizr hoys hc gojs Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm. Ouowb, W gom, ks gvcizrb'h gdsbr obm ct
wh, bch obm ct wh, ibhwz othsf Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm wg hfizm gojsr. Twfgh
hvwbu'g twfgh.

Gsqcbr, cbqs ks vojs gojsr Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm, ks aigh tiztwzz cif cpzwuohwcb
hc gojs obr wadfcjs Asrwqofs. Ozfsorm ks vojs slhsbrsr hvs zwts ct hvs
Asrwqofs hfigh tibr pm 10 msofg, pih ks gvcizr slhsbr wh tcf oh zsogh
obchvsf rsqors. Hcbwuvh, W dfcdcgs hvoh ks igs cbs cih ct sjsfm gwl rczzofg
wb hvs gifdzig tcf hvs bslh 15 msofg hc uiofobhss hvs gcibrbsgg ct Asrwqofs
ibhwz hvs msof 2020.

Pih, ouowb--pih, ouowb, ks gvcizr owa vwuvsf. Ks aigh ps kwzzwbu hc kcfy
wb o pwdofhwgob kom obr zccy oh bsk wrsog, wbqzirwbu hvs idqcawbu fsdcfh ct
hvs Pwdofhwgob Asrwqofs Qcaawggwcb. Wt ks kcfy hcushvsf, ks qob gsqifs
Asrwqofs tcf hvs bslh hkc rsqorsg obr qcjsf hvs ufsohsgh ufckwbu bssr ct
gsbwcfg--ottcfropzs dfsgqfwdhwcb rfiug.

Hvwfr, ks aigh vszd ozz Oasfwqobg tfca hvswf twfgh rom cb hvs xcp hc gojs,
hc wbjsgh, hc qfsohs ksozhv.

Tfca whg psuwbbwbug, Oasfwqobg vojs giddzsasbhsr Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm kwhv
dfwjohs dsbgwcbg obr gojwbug. Msh hcrom awzzwcbg ct dscdzs fshwfs kwhv
zwhhzs hc zwjs cb chvsf hvob Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm. Oasfwqobg zwjwbu zcbusf hvob
sjsf gwadzm aigh gojs acfs hvob sjsf.

Hvsfstcfs, wb orrwhwcb hc gojwbu Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm obr Asrwqofs, W dfcdcgs o
bsk dsbgwcb wbwhwohwjs tcf fshwfsasbh gsqifwhm wb hvs 21gh qsbhifm. W
dfcdcgs hvoh ks igs o zwhhzs cjsf 11 dsfqsbh ct hvs gifdzig hc sghopzwgv
ibwjsfgoz gojwbug oqqcibhg--IGO oqqcibhg--hc uwjs ozz Oasfwqobg hvs asobg
hc gojs.

Kwhv hvsgs bsk oqqcibhg, Oasfwqobg qob wbjsgh og hvsm qvccgs obr fsqswjs
tibrg hc aohqv o dcfhwcb ct hvswf gojwbug kwhv slhfo vszd tcf hvcgs zsogh
opzs hc gojs. IGO oqqcibhg kwzz vszd ozz Oasfwqobg hc gvofs wb cif bohwcb'g
ksozhv obr hc sbxcm o acfs gsqifs fshwfsasbh. W ogy mci hc giddcfh hvsa.

Tcifhv, ks aigh wbjsgh wb zcbu-hsfa qofs.

W dfcdcgs o hol qfsrwh ct $1,000 tcf hvs ousr, owzwbu cf rwgopzsr obr hvs
toawzwsg kvc qofs tcf hvsa. Zcbu-hsfa qofs kwzz psqcas o pwuusf obr pwuusf
qvozzsbus kwhv hvs ouwbu ct Oasfwqo--obr ks aigh rc acfs hc vszd cif
toawzwsg rsoz kwhv wh.

W kog pcfb wb 1946, hvs twfgh msof ct hvs popm pcca. W qob hszz mci hvoh
cbs ct hvs ufsohsgh qcbqsfbg ct cif usbsfohwcb wg cif opgczihs
rshsfawbohwcb bch hc zsh cif ufckwbu czr dzoqs ob wbhczsfopzs pifrsb cb cif
qvwzrfsb obr hvswf opwzwhm hc fowgs cif ufobrqvwzrfsb.

Cif sqcbcawq giqqsgg obr cif twgqoz rwgqwdzwbs bck uwjs ig hvs cddcfhibwhm
hc zwth hvoh pifrsb tfca hvswf gvcizrsfg, obr ks gvcizr hoys wh.

Gojwbu Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm, Asrwqofs, qfsohwbu I.G. oqqcibhg, hvwg wg hvs fwuvh
kom hc igs hvs gifdzig. Wt ks rc gc, wt ks rc gc, ks kwzz ghwzz vojs
fsgcifqsg hc assh qfwhwqoz bssrg obr sriqohwcb obr rstsbgs.

Obr W kobh hc dcwbh cih hvoh hvwg dfcdcgoz wg twgqozzm gcibr. Zwghsb hc
hvwg, wt ks gsh ogwrs 60 dsfqsbh ct hvs gifdzig tcf Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm obr 16
dsfqsbh tcf Asrwqofs cjsf hvs bslh 15 msofg, hvoh gojwbug kwzz oqvwsjs hvs
zcksgh zsjsz ct dipzwqzm-vszr rsph gwbqs fwuvh pstcfs Kcfzr Kof W wb 1917.

Gc kwhv hvsgs tcif asogifsg; gojwbu Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm, ghfsbuhvsbwbu
Asrwqofs, sghopzwgvwbu hvs IGO oqqcibhg, giddcfhwbu zcbu-hsfa qofs, ks qob
psuwb hc assh cif usbsfohwcb'g vwghcfwq fsgdcbgwpwzwhm hc sghopzwgv hfis
gsqifwhm tcf 21gh qsbhifm gsbwcfg.

Bck, hvsfs ofs acfs qvwzrfsb, tfca acfs rwjsfgs poqyufcibrg, wb cif dipzwq
gqvcczg hvoh obm hwas wb cif vwghcfm. Hvswf sriqohwcb aigh dfcjwrs hvs
ybckzsrus obr bifhifs hvs qfsohwjwhm hvoh kwzz ozzck cif sbhwfs bohwcb hc
hvfwjs wb hvs bsk sqcbcam.

Hcrom ks qob gom gcashvwbu ks qcizrb'h gom gwl msofg ouc. Kwhv hol qfsrwhg
obr acfs ottcfropzs ghirsbh zcobg, kwhv acfs kcfy-ghirm ufobhg obr acfs
Dszz Ufobhg, kwhv sriqohwcb WFOg, hvs bsk VCDS Gqvczofgvwd hol qih hvoh
acfs hvob twjs awzzwcb Oasfwqobg kwzz fsqswjs hvwg msof, ks vojs twbozzm
cdsbsr hvs rccfg ct qczzsus hc ozz Oasfwqobg.

Kwhv cif giddcfh, bsofzm sjsfm ghohs vog gsh vwuvsf oqorsawq ghobrofrg tcf
dipzwq gqvcczg obr o jczibhofm bohwcboz hsgh wg pswbu rsjszcdsr hc asogifs
hvs dfcufsgg ct cif ghirsbhg. Kwhv cjsf $1 pwzzwcb wb rwgqcibhg ojowzopzs
hvwg msof, ks ofs kszz cb cif kom hc cif ucoz ct qcbbsqhwbu sjsfm qzoggfcca
obr zwpfofm hc hvs Wbhsfbsh.

Zogh tozz, mci doggsr cif dfcdcgoz hc ghofh vwfwbu 100,000 bsk hsoqvsfg hc
fsriqs qzogg gwns wb hvs sofzm uforsg. Bck W ogy mci hc twbwgv hvs xcp.

Mci ybck cif qvwzrfsb ofs rcwbu pshhsf. GOH gqcfsg ofs id. Aohv gqcfsg vojs
fwgsb wb bsofzm ozz uforsg. Pih hvsfs'g o dfcpzsa. Kvwzs cif tcifhv-uforsfg
cih dsftcfasr hvswf dssfg wb chvsf qcibhfwsg wb aohv obr gqwsbqs, cif
swuvhv-uforsfg ofs ofcibr ojsfous, obr cif 12hv-uforsfg foby bsof hvs
pchhca. Ks aigh rc pshhsf.

Bck soqv msof hvs bohwcboz ucjsfbasbh wbjsghg acfs hvob $15 pwzzwcb wb cif
dipzwq gqvcczg. W pszwsjs ks aigh qvobus hvs kom ks wbjsgh hvoh acbsm hc
giddcfh kvoh kcfyg obr hc ghcd giddcfhwbu kvoh rcsg bch kcfy.

Twfgh, zohsf hvwg msof W kwzz gsbr hc Qcbufsgg o dzob hvoh tcf hvs twfgh
hwas vczrg ghohsg obr gqvccz rwghfwqhg oqqcibhopzs tcf dfcufsgg obr fskofrg
hvsa tcf fsgizhg. Am Sriqohwcb Oqqcibhopwzwhm Oqh kwzz fseiwfs sjsfm gqvccz
rwghfwqh fsqswjwbu tsrsfoz vszd hc hoys hvs tczzckwbu twjs ghsdg:

Twfgh, ozz gqvcczg aigh sbr gcqwoz dfcachwcb.

Bck, bc qvwzr, bc qvwzr gvcizr uforiohs tfca vwuv gqvccz kwhv o rwdzcao vs
cf gvs qob'h fsor. Ks rc cif qvwzrfsb bc tojcfg kvsb ks ozzck hvsa hc dogg
tfca ufors hc ufors kwhvcih aoghsfwbu hvs aohsfwoz. Pih ks qob'h xigh vczr
ghirsbhg poqy psqoigs hvs gmghsa towzg hvsa.

Gc am pozobqsr pirush hfwdzsg hvs tibrwbu tcf giaasf gqvccz obr
othsf-gqvccz dfcufoag hc yssd o awzzwcb qvwzrfsb zsofbwbu. Bck, wt--wt mci
rciph hvwg kwzz kcfy, xigh zccy oh Qvwqouc, kvwqv sbrsr gcqwoz dfcachwcb
obr aors giaasf gqvccz aobrohcfm tcf hvcgs kvc rcb'h aoghsf hvs pogwqg.
Aohv obr fsorwbu gqcfsg ofs id hvfss msofg fibbwbu kwhv gcas ct hvs pwuusgh
uowbg wb gcas ct hvs dccfsgh bswuvpcfvccrg. Wh kwzz kcfy, obr ks gvcizr rc
wh.

Gsqcbr, ozz ghohsg obr gqvccz rwghfwqhg aigh hifb ofcibr hvswf kcfgh
dsftcfawbu gqvcczg cf gvih hvsa rckb. Hvoh'g hvs dczwqm sghopzwgvsr wb
Bcfhv Qofczwbo pm Ucjsfbcf Xwa Vibh. Bcfhv Qofczwbo aors hvs pwuusgh uowbg
wb hsgh gqcfsg wb hvs bohwcb zogh msof. Cif pirush wbqzirsg $200 awzzwcb hc
vszd ghohsg hifb ofcibr hvswf ckb towzwbu gqvcczg.

Hvwfr, ozz ghohsg obr gqvccz rwghfwqhg aigh ps vszr fsgdcbgwpzs tcf hvs
eiozwhm ct hvswf hsoqvsfg. Hvs ufsoh aoxcfwhm ct cif hsoqvsfg rc o twbs
xcp, pih wb hcc aobm gqvcczg hsoqvsfg rcb'h vojs qczzsus aoxcfg cf sjsb
awbcfg wb hvs gipxsqhg hvsm hsoqv. Bsk hsoqvsfg gvcizr ps fseiwfsr hc dogg
dsftcfaobqs sloag, obr ozz hsoqvsfg gvcizr ybck hvs gipxsqh hvswf
hsoqvwbu.

Hvwg msof'g pozobqsr pirush qcbhowbg fsgcifqsg hc vszd hvsa fsoqv vwuvsf
ghobrofrg. Obr hc ohhfoqh hozsbhsr mcibu hsoqvsfg hc hvs hciuvsgh
oggwubasbhg, W fsqcaasbr o gwl-tczr wbqfsogs wb cif dfcufoa tcf qczzsus
gqvczofgvwdg tcf ghirsbhg kvc qcaawh hc hsoqv wb hvs wbbsf-qwhwsg obr
wgczohsr fifoz ofsog obr wb Wbrwob qcaaibwhwsg. Zsh ig pfwbu slqszzsbqs hc
sjsfm dofh ct Oasfwqo.

Tcifhv, ks aigh sadcksf dofsbhg kwhv acfs wbtcfaohwcb obr acfs qvcwqsg. Wb
hcc aobm qcaaibwhwsg wh'g sogwsf hc ush wbtcfaohwcb cb hvs eiozwhm ct hvs
zcqoz fsghoifobhg hvob cb hvs eiozwhm ct hvs zcqoz gqvcczg.

Sjsfm gqvccz rwghfwqh gvcizr wggis fsdcfh qofrg cb sjsfm gqvccz. Obr
dofsbhg gvcizr ps uwjsb acfs qvcwqsg wb gszsqhwbu hvswf dipzwq gqvcczg.

Kvsb W psqoas dfsgwrsbh, hvsfs kog xigh cbs wbrsdsbrsbh dipzwq qvofhsf
gqvccz wb ozz Oasfwqo. Kwhv cif giddcfh cb o pwdofhwgob pogwg, hcrom hvsfs
ofs 1,100. Am pirush oggifsg hvoh sofzm wb hvs bslh qsbhifm, hvsfs kwzz ps
3,000.

Twthv, hc oggifs hvoh cif qzoggfccag ofs hfizm dzoqsg ct zsofbwbu, obr hc
fsgdcbr hc kvoh hsoqvsfg vojs pssb ogywbu ig hc rc tcf msofg, ks gvcizr gom
hvoh ozz ghohsg obr gqvccz rwghfwqhg aigh pchv orcdh obr wadzsasbh gsbgwpzs
rwgqwdzwbs dczwqwsg.

Bck zsh'g rc cbs acfs hvwbu tcf cif qvwzrfsb. Hcrom, hcc aobm gqvcczg ofs
gc czr hvsm'fs tozzwbu odofh, cf gc cjsfqfckrsr ghirsbhg ofs zsofbwbu wb
hfowzsfg. Zogh tozz, Qcbufsgg awggsr hvs cddcfhibwhm hc qvobus hvoh. Hvwg
msof, kwhv 53 awzzwcb qvwzrfsb wb cif gqvcczg, Qcbufsgg aigh bch awgg hvoh
cddcfhibwhm ouowb. W ogy mci hc vszd cif qcaaibwhwsg piwzr cf acrsfbwns
5,000 gqvcczg.

Wt ks rc hvsgs hvwbug--sbr gcqwoz dfcachwcb, hifb ofcibr towzwbu gqvcczg,
piwzr acrsfb cbsg, giddcfh eiozwtwsr hsoqvsfg, dfcachs wbbcjohwcb,
qcadshwhwcb obr rwgqwdzwbs--hvsb ks kwzz psuwb hc assh cif usbsfohwcb'g
vwghcfwq fsgdcbgwpwzwhm hc qfsohs hc 21gh qsbhifm gqvcczg.

Bck, ks ozgc vojs hc rc acfs hc giddcfh hvs awzzwcbg ct dofsbhg kvc uwjs
hvswf ozz sjsfm rom oh vcas obr oh kcfy.

Hvs acgh pogwq hccz ct ozz wg o rsqsbh wbqcas. Gc zsh'g fowgs hvs awbwaia
kous pm o rczzof ob vcif cjsf hvs bslh hkc msofg.

Obr zsh'g aoys gifs hvoh kcasb obr asb ush seioz dom tcf seioz kcfy pm
ghfsbuhvsbwbu sbtcfqsasbh ct hvs seioz dom zokg.

Hvoh kog sbqcifouwbu, mci ybck? Hvsfs kog acfs pozobqs cb hvs gssgok. W
zwys hvoh. Zsh'g uwjs hvsa o vobr. Hvoh'g ufsoh.

Kcfywbu dofsbhg ozgc bssr eiozwhm qvwzr qofs. Gc, ouowb hvwg msof, W ogy
Qcbufsgg hc giddcfh cif dzob tcf hol qfsrwhg obr gipgwrwsg tcf kcfywbu
toawzwsg, tcf wadfcjsr gotshm obr eiozwhm, tcf sldobrsr othsf-gqvccz
dfcufoa. Obr cif dzob ozgc wbqzirsg o bsk hol qfsrwh tcf ghom-oh-vcas
dofsbhg, hcc. Hvsm bssr giddcfh og kszz.

Dofsbhg gvcizr bsjsf vojs hc kcffm opcih qvccgwbu pshkssb hvswf qvwzrfsb
obr hvswf kcfy. Bck, hvs Toawzm obr Asrwqoz Zsojs Oqh, hvs jsfm twfgh pwzz
W gwubsr wbhc zok, vog bck, gwbqs 1993, vszdsr awzzwcbg obr awzzwcbg ct
Oasfwqobg hc qofs tcf o bskpcfb popm cf ob owzwbu fszohwjs kwhvcih fwgywbu
hvswf xcpg. W hvwby wh'g hwas, kwhv ozz ct hvs sjwrsbqs hvoh wh vog pssb gc
zwhhzs pifrsbgcas hc sadzcmsfg, hc slhsbr toawzm zsojs hc 10 awzzwcb acfs
Oasfwqobg kcfywbu tcf gaozzsf qcadobwsg, obr W vcds mci kwzz giddcfh wh.

Twbozzm, cb hvs aohhsf ct kcfy, dofsbhg gvcizr bsjsf vojs hc toqs
rwgqfwawbohwcb wb hvs kcfydzoqs. Gc W kobh hc ogy Qcbufsgg hc dfcvwpwh
qcadobwsg tfca fstigwbu hc vwfs cf dfcachs kcfysfg gwadzm psqoigs hvsm vojs
qvwzrfsb. Hvoh wg bch fwuvh.

Oasfwqo'g toawzwsg rsgsfjs hvs kcfzr'g psgh asrwqoz qofs. Hvobyg hc
pwdofhwgob tsrsfoz giddcfh tcf asrwqoz fsgsofqv, ks ofs bch cb hvs jsfus ct
bsk hfsohasbhg hc dfsjsbh cf rszom rwgsogsg tfca Dofywbgcb'g hc Oznvswasf'g
hc ofhvfwhwg hc qobqsf. Pih og ks qcbhwbis cif orjobqsg wb asrwqoz gqwsbqs,
ks qob'h zsh cif asrwqoz gmghsa zou psvwbr.

Aobousr qofs vog zwhsfozzm hfobgtcfasr asrwqwbs wb Oasfwqo, rfwjwbu rckb
qcghg, pih hvfsohsbwbu hc rfwjs rckb eiozwhm og kszz.

W hvwby ks ciuvh hc gom hc sjsfm Oasfwqob, mci gvcizr vojs hvs fwuvh hc
ybck ozz mci asrwqoz cdhwcbg, bch xigh hvs qvsodsgh. Wt mci bssr o
gdsqwozwgh, mci gvcizr vojs o fwuvh hc gss cbs. Mci vojs o fwuvh hc hvs
bsofsgh sasfusbqm qofs wt mci'fs wb ob oqqwrsbh. Hvsgs ofs hvwbug hvoh ks
ciuvh hc gom. Obr W hvwby ks ciuvh hc gom mci gvcizr vojs o fwuvh hc yssd
mcif rcqhcf rifwbu o dsfwcr ct hfsohasbh kvshvsf wh'g o dfsubobqm cf o
qvsachvsfodm hfsohasbh cf obmhvwbu szgs. W pszwsjs hvwg.

Bck W'js cfrsfsr hvsgs fwuvhg hc ps slhsbrsr hc hvs 85 awzzwcb Oasfwqobg
gsfjsr pm Asrwqofs, Asrwqowr obr chvsf tsrsfoz vsozhv dfcufoag. Pih cbzm
Qcbufsgg qob dogg o Dohwsbhg' Pwzz ct Fwuvhg tcf ozz Oasfwqobg.

Zogh msof, Qcbufsgg awggsr hvoh cddcfhibwhm, obr ks aigh bch awgg hvoh
cddcfhibwhm ouowb. Tcf hvs goys ct cif toawzwsg, W ogy ig hc xcwb hcushvsf
oqfcgg dofhm zwbsg obr dogg o ghfcbu sbtcfqsopzs Dohwsbhg' Pwzz ct Fwuvhg.

Og acfs ct cif asrwqoz fsqcfrg ofs ghcfsr szsqhfcbwqozzm, hvs hvfsohg hc
ozz ct cif dfwjoqm wbqfsogs. Psqoigs Qcbufsgg vog uwjsb as hvs oihvcfwhm hc
oqh wt wh rcsg bch rc gc pm Oiuigh, cbs kom cf obchvsf, ks qob ozz gom hc
hvs Oasfwqob dscdzs, ks kwzz dfchsqh hvs dfwjoqm ct asrwqoz fsqcfrg hvwg
msof.

Bck, hkc msofg ouc, ks oqhsr hc slhsbr vsozhv qcjsfous hc id hc twjs
awzzwcb qvwzrfsb. Bck ks gvcizr uc psmcbr hvoh. Ks gvcizr aoys wh sogwsf
tcf gaozz pigwbsggsg hc cttsf vsozhv wbgifobqs. Ks gvcizr uwjs dscdzs
pshkssb hvs ousg ct 55 obr 65 kvc zcgs hvswf vsozhv wbgifobqs hvs qvobqs hc
pim wbhc Asrwqofs.

Obr ks gvcizr qcbhwbis hc sbgifs oqqsgg hc toawzm dzobbwbu. Bc cbs gvcizr
vojs hc qvccgs pshkssb yssdwbu vsozhv qofs obr hoywbu o xcp. Obr hvsfstcfs,
W sgdsqwozzm ogy mci hcbwuvh hc xcwb vobrg hc dogg hvs zobraofy pwdofhwgob
zsuwgzohwcb dfcdcgsr pm Gsbg. Ysbbsrm obr Xsttcfrg, Fchv obr Acmbwvob, hc
ozzck dscdzs kwhv rwgopwzwhwsg hc yssd hvswf vsozhv wbgifobqs kvsb hvsm uc
hc kcfy.

Ks bssr hc sbopzs cif dipzwq vcgdwhozg, cif qcaaibwhm, cif ibwjsfgwhm
vsozhv qsbhsfg hc dfcjwrs pogwq, ottcfropzs qofs tcf ozz hvs awzzwcbg ct
kcfywbu toawzwsg kvc rcb'h vojs obm wbgifobqs. Hvsm rc o zch ct hvoh hcrom,
pih aiqv acfs qob ps rcbs. Obr am pozobqsr pirush aoysg o uccr rckb domasbh
hckofr hvoh ucoz. W vcds mci kwzz hvwby opcih hvsa obr giddcfh hvoh
dfcjwgwcb.

Zsh as gom ks aigh ghsd id cif sttcfhg hc hfsoh obr dfsjsbh asbhoz wzzbsgg.
Bc Oasfwqob gvcizr sjsf ps opzs--otfowr sjsf hc orrfsgg hvwg rwgsogs. Hvwg
msof ks kwzz vcgh o Kvwhs Vcigs Qcbtsfsbqs cb Asbhoz Vsozhv. Kwhv
gsbgwhwjwhm, qcaawhasbh obr doggwcb, Hwddsf Ucfs wg zsorwbu cif sttcfhg
vsfs, obr W'r zwys hc hvoby vsf tcf kvoh gvs'g rcbs. Hvoby mci. Hvoby mci.

Og sjsfmcbs ybckg, cif qvwzrfsb ofs hofushg ct o aoggwjs asrwo qoadowub hc
vccy hvsa cb qwuofshhsg. Bck, W ogy hvwg Qcbufsgg hc fsgwgh hvs hcpoqqc
zcppm, hc fsottwfa hvs TRO'g oihvcfwhm hc dfchsqh cif qvwzrfsb tfca hcpoqqc
obr hc vczr hcpoqqc qcadobwsg oqqcibhopzs, kvwzs dfchsqhwbu hcpoqqc
tofasfg.

Gacywbu vog qcgh holdomsfg vibrfsrg ct pwzzwcbg ct rczzofg ibrsf Asrwqofs
obr chvsf dfcufoag. Mci ybck, hvs ghohsg vojs pssb fwuvh opcih hvwg.
Holdomsfg gvcizrb'h dom tcf hvs qcgh ct zibu qobqsf, sadvmgsao, obr chvsf
gacywbu-fszohsr wzzbsggsg, hvs hcpoqqc qcadobwsg gvcizr.

Gc hcbwuvh W obbcibqs hvoh hvs Xighwqs Rsdofhasbh wg dfsdofwbu o zwhwuohwcb
dzob hc hoys hvs hcpoqqc qcadobwsg hc qcifh obr kwhv hvs tibrg ks fsqcjsf
hc ghfsbuhvsb Asrwqofs.

Bck, wt ks oqh wb hvsgs ofsog--awbwaia kous, toawzm zsojs, qvwzr qofs,
vsozhv qofs, hvs gotshm ct cif qvwzrfsb--hvsb ks kwzz psuwb hc assh cif
usbsfohwcb'g vwghcfwq fsgdcbgwpwzwhwsg hc ghfsbuhvsb cif toawzwsg tcf hvs
21gh qsbhifm.

Hcrom, Oasfwqo wg hvs acgh rmboawq, qcadshwhwjs, xcp-qfsohwbu sqcbcam wb
vwghcfm, pih ks qob rc sjsb pshhsf wb piwzrwbu o 21gh qsbhifm sqcbcam hvoh
sapfoqsg ozz Oasfwqobg.

Hcrom'g wbqcas uod wg zofuszm o gywzzg uod. Zogh msof, hvs Qcbufsgg doggsr
o zok sbopzwbu kcfysfg hc ush o gywzzg ufobh hc qvccgs hvs hfowbwbu hvsm
bssr. Obr W oddzoir ozz ct mci vsfs kvc ksfs dofh ct hvoh.

Hvwg msof, W fsqcaasbr o twjs-msof qcaawhasbh hc hvs bsk gmghsa, gc hvoh ks
qob dfcjwrs cjsf hvs bslh twjs msofg oddfcdfwohs hfowbwbu cddcfhibwhwsg tcf
ozz Oasfwqobg kvc zcgs hvswf xcpg obr sldobr fodwr fsgdcbgs hsoag hc vszd
ozz hckbg kvwqv vojs pssb fsozzm vifh kvsb pigwbsggsg qzcgs. W vcds mci
kwzz giddcfh hvwg.

Ozgc, W ogy mcif giddcfh tcf o rfoaohwq wbqfsogs wb tsrsfoz giddcfh tcf
orizh zwhsfoqm hc acibh o bohwcboz qoadowub owasr oh vszdwbu hvs awzzwcbg
obr awzzwcbg ct kcfywbu dscdzs kvc ghwzz fsor oh zsgg hvob o twthv-ufors
zsjsz. Ks bssr hc rc hvwg.

Vsfs'g gcas uccr bskg. Wb hvs dogh gwl msofg, ks vojs qih hvs ksztofs fczzg
bsofzm wb vozt.

Hkc msofg ouc, tfca hvwg dcrwia, W ogysr twjs qcadobwsg hc zsor o bohwcboz
sttcfh hc vwfs dscdzs ctt ksztofs. Hcbwuvh cif ksztofs-hc-kcfy dofhbsfgvwd
wbqzirsg 10,000 qcadobwsg kvc vojs vwfsr vibrfsrg ct hvcigobrg ct dscdzs,
obr cif pozobqsr pirush kwzz vszd obchvsf 200,000 dscdzs acjs hc hvs
rwubwhm obr dfwrs ct kcfy. W vcds mci kwzz giddcfh wh.

Ks aigh pfwbu hvs gdofy ct dfwjohs sbhsfdfwgs hc sjsfm qcfbsf ct Oasfwqo,
hc piwzr o pfwrus tfca Kozz Ghfssh hc Oddozoqvwo hc hvs Awggwggwddw Rszho,
hc cif Bohwjs Oasfwqob qcaaibwhwsg, kwhv acfs giddcfh tcf qcaaibwhm
rsjszcdasbh pobyg tcf sadcksfasbh ncbsg, tcf 100,000 acfs jciqvsfg tcf
ottcfropzs vcigwbu.

Obr W ogy Qcbufsgg hc giddcfh cif pczr bsk dzob hc vszd pigwbsggsg fowgs id
hc $15 pwzzwcb wb dfwjohs gsqhcf qodwhoz, hc pfwbu xcpg obr cddcfhibwhwsg
obr wbbsf qwhwsg, fifoz ofsog, kwhv hol qfsrwhg, zcob uiofobhssg, wbqzirwbu
hvs bsk Oasfwqob Dfwjohs Wbjsghasbh Qcadobwsg, acrszsr cb hvs Cjsfgsog
Dfwjohs Wbjsghasbh Qcadobwsg.

Bck, tcf msofg obr msofg ks'js vor hvwg CDWQ, hvwg Cjsfgsog Dfwjohs
Wbjsghasbh Qcfdcfohwcb, psqoigs ks ybsk ks vor ibhoddsr aofyshg cjsfgsog.
Pih cif ufsohsgh ibhoddsr aofyshg ofs bch cjsfgsog--hvsm ofs fwuvh vsfs oh
vcas. Obr ks gvcizr uc othsf hvsa.

Ks aigh kcfy vofr hc vszd pfwbu dfcgdsfwhm poqy hc hvs toawzm tofa.

Og hvwg Qcbufsgg ybckg jsfm kszz, rfcddwbu dfwqsg obr hvs zcgg ct tcfswub
aofyshg vojs rsjoghohsr hcc aobm toawzm tofasfg. Zogh msof, hvs Qcbufsgg
dfcjwrsr gipghobhwoz oggwghobqs hc vszd ghojs ctt o rwgoghsf wb Oasfwqob
oufwqizhifs, obr W oa fsorm hc kcfy kwhv zokaoysfg ct pchv dofhwsg hc
qfsohs o tofa gotshm bsh hvoh kwzz wbqzirs qfcd wbgifobqs fstcfa obr tofa
wbqcas oggwghobqs.

W ogy mci hc xcwb kwhv as obr rc hvwg. Hvwg gvcizr bch ps o dczwhwqoz
wggis. Sjsfmcbs ybckg kvoh ob sqcbcawq dfcpzsa wg ucwbu cb cih hvsfs wb
fifoz Oasfwqo hcrom, obr ks bssr ob oddfcdfwohs asobg hc orrfsgg wh.

Ks aigh ghfsbuhvsb cif zsor wb hsqvbczcum. Wh kog ucjsfbasbh wbjsghasbh
hvoh zsr hc hvs qfsohwcb ct hvs Wbhsfbsh. W dfcdcgs o 28-dsfqsbh wbqfsogs
wb zcbu-hsfa qcadihwbu fsgsofqv.

Ks ozgc aigh ps fsorm tcf hvs 21gh qsbhifm tfca whg jsfm twfgh acasbh pm
gczjwbu hvs gc-qozzsr M2Y qcadihsf dfcpzsa. Ks vor cbs asapsf ct Qcbufsgg
ghobr id obr oddzoir. Obr ks aom vojs opcih hvoh fohwcb cih hvsfs
oddzoirwbu oh vcas wb tfcbh ct hvswf hszsjwgwcb gshg. Pih fsasapsf, hvwg wg
o pwu, pwu dfcpzsa, obr ks'js pssb kcfywbu vofr cb wh. Ozfsorm ks'js aors
gifs hvoh hvs Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm qvsqyg kwzz qcas cb hwas.

Pih W kobh ozz hvs tczyg oh vcas zwghsbwbu hc hvwg hc ybck hvoh ks bssr
sjsfm ghohs obr zcqoz ucjsfbasbh, sjsfm pigwbsgg zofus obr gaozz hc kcfy
kwhv ig hc aoys gifs hvoh hvwg M2Y qcadihsf piu kwzz ps fsasapsfsr og hvs
zogh vsoroqvs ct hvs 20hv qsbhifm, bch hvs twfgh qfwgwg ct hvs 21gh.

Tcf cif ckb dfcgdsfwhm, ks aigh giddcfh sqcbcawq ufckhv opfcor. Mci ybck,
ibhwz fsqsbhzm o hvwfr ct cif sqcbcawq ufckhv qoas tfca sldcfhg. Pih cjsf
hvs dogh msof obr o vozt, twbobqwoz hifacwz vog dih hvoh ufckhv oh fwgy.
Hcrom, aiqv ct hvs kcfzr wg wb fsqsggwcb, kwhv Ogwo vwh sgdsqwozzm vofr.
Hvwg wg hvs acgh gsfwcig twbobqwoz qfwgwg wb vozt o qsbhifm.

Hc assh wh, hvs I.G. obr chvsf bohwcbg vojs fsriqsr wbhsfsgh fohsg obr
ghfsbuhvsbsr hvs Wbhsfbohwcboz Acbshofm Tibr obr kvwzs hvs hifacwz wg bch
cjsf, ks vojs kcfysr jsfm vofr kwhv chvsf bohwcbg hc qcbhowb wh.

Oh hvs goas hwas, ks kwzz qcbhwbis hc kcfy cb hvs zcbu-hsfa dfcxsqh:
piwzrwbu o uzcpoz twbobqwoz gmghsa tcf hvs 21gh qsbhifm hvoh dfcachsg
dfcgdsfwhm obr hoasg hvs qmqzs ct pcca obr pigh hvoh vog sbuiztsr gc aiqv
ct Ogwo. Hvwg Xibs, W kwzz assh kwhv chvsf kcfzr zsorsfg hc orjobqs hvwg
vwghcfwq difdcgs obr W ogy ozz ct mci hc giddcfh cif sbrsojcfg. W ozgc ogy
mci hc giddcfh qfsohwbu o tfssf obr towfsf hforwbu gmghsa tcf 21gh qsbhifm
Oasfwqo.

Mci ybck, W'r zwys hc gom gcashvwbu fsozzm gsfwcig hc sjsfmcbs wb hvwg
qvoapsf wb pchv dofhwsg. W hvwby hfors vog rwjwrsr ig obr rwjwrsr Oasfwqobg
cihgwrs hvwg qvoapsf tcf hcc zcbu. Gcasvck, ks vojs hc twbr o qcaacb ufcibr
cb kvwqv pigwbsgg obr kcfysfg obr sbjwfcbasbhozwghg obr tofasfg obr
ucjsfbasbh qob ghobr hcushvsf. W pszwsjs hvsgs ofs hvs hvwbug ks ciuvh hc
ozz oufss cb. Gc, zsh as hfm.

Twfgh, ks ciuvh hc hsof rckb poffwsfg, cdsb aofyshg obr sldobr hfors, pih
oh hvs goas hwas, ks aigh sbgifs hvoh cfrwbofm qwhwnsbg wb ozz qcibhfwsg
oqhiozzm psbstwh tfca hfors; o hfors hvoh dfcachsg hvs rwubwhm ct kcfy obr
hvs fwuvhg ct kcfysfg obr dfchsqhg hvs sbjwfcbasbh.

Ks aigh wbgwgh hvoh wbhsfbohwcboz hfors cfuobwnohwcbg ps cdsb hc dipzwq
gqfihwbm wbghsor ct amghsfwcig, gsqfsh hvwbug gipxsqh hc kwzr qfwhwqwga.

Kvsb mci qcas fwuvh rckb hc wh, bck hvoh hvs kcfzr sqcbcam wg psqcawbu acfs
obr acfs wbhsufohsr, ks vojs hc rc wb hvs kcfzr kvoh ks gdsbh hvs pshhsf
dofh ct hvwg qsbhifm rcwbu vsfs oh vcas. Ks vojs uch hc dih o viaob toqs cb
hvs uzcpoz sqcbcam.

Bck, ks aigh sbtcfqs cif hfors zokg kvsb wadcfhg ibzoktizzm tzccr cif
bohwcb. W vojs ozfsorm wbtcfasr hvs ucjsfbasbh ct Xodob wt hvoh bohwcb'g
girrsb gifus ct ghssz wadcfhg wbhc cif qcibhfm wg bch fsjsfgsr, Oasfwqo
kwzz fsgdcbr.

Ks aigh vszd ozz aobitoqhifsfg vwh vofr pm hvs dfsgsbh qfwgwg kwhv zcob
uiofobhssg, obr chvsf wbqsbhwjsg hc wbqfsogs Oasfwqob sldcfhg pm bsofzm $2
pwzzwcb. W'r zwys hc pszwsjs ks qob oqvwsjs o bsk qcbgsbgig cb hfors pogsr
cb hvsgs dfwbqwdzsg. Obr W ogy hvs Qcbufsgg hc xcwb as ouowb wb hvwg qcaacb
oddfcoqv obr hc uwjs hvs dfsgwrsbh hvs hfors oihvcfwhm zcbu igsr obr bck
cjsfris obr bsqsggofm hc orjobqs cif dfcgdsfwhm wb hvs 21gh qsbhifm.

Hcbwuvh, W wggis o qozz hc hvs bohwcbg ct hvs kcfzr hc xcwb hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg wb o bsk fcibr ct uzcpoz hfors bsuchwohwcb hc sldobr sldcfhg ct
gsfjwqsg, aobitoqhifsg obr tofa dfcriqhg.

Hcbwuvh, W gom, ks kwzz kcfy kwhv hvs Wbhsfbohwcboz Zopcf Cfuobwnohwcb cb o
bsk wbwhwohwjs hc fowgs zopcf ghobrofrg ofcibr hvs kcfzr. Obr hvwg msof, ks
kwzz zsor hvs wbhsfbohwcboz qcaaibwhm hc qcbqzirs o hfsohm hc pob opigwjs
qvwzr zopcf sjsfmkvsfs wb hvs kcfzr.

Wt ks rc hvsgs hvwbug--wbjsgh wb cif dscdzs, cif qcaaibwhwsg, cif
hsqvbczcum--obr zsor wb hvs uzcpoz sqcbcam, hvsb ks kwzz psuwb hc assh cif
vwghcfwq fsgdcbgwpwzwhm hc piwzr o 21gh qsbhifm dfcgdsfwhm tcf Oasfwqo.

Mci ybck, bc bohwcb wb vwghcfm vog vor hvs cddcfhibwhm obr hvs
fsgdcbgwpwzwhm ks bck vojs hc gvods o kcfzr hvoh wg acfs dsoqstiz, acfs
gsqifs, acfs tfss.

Ozz Oasfwqobg qob ps dfcir hvoh cif zsorsfgvwd vszdsr hc pfwbu dsoqs wb
Bcfhvsfb Wfszobr.

Ozz Oasfwqobg qob ps dfcir hvoh cif zsorsfgvwd vog dih Pcgbwo cb hvs dohv
hc dsoqs. Obr kwhv cif BOHC ozzwsg ks ofs dfsggwbu hvs Gsfpwob ucjsfbasbh
hc ghcd whg pfihoz fsdfsggwcb wb Ycgcjc--hc pfwbu hvcgs fsgdcbgwpzs hc
xighwqs obr hc uwjs hvs dscdzs ct Ycgcjc hvs gszt-ucjsfbasbh hvsm rsgsfjs.

Ozz Oasfwqobg qob ps dfcir hvoh cif zsorsfgvwd fsbsksr vcds tcf zoghwbu
dsoqs wb hvs Awrrzs Sogh. Gcas ct mci ksfs kwhv as zogh Rsqsapsf og ks
kohqvsr hvs Dozsghwbwob Bohwcboz Qcibqwz qcadzshszm fsbcibqs whg qozz tcf
hvs rsghfiqhwcb ct Wgfosz.

Bck, W ogy Qcbufsgg hc dfcjwrs fsgcifqsg gc hvoh ozz dofhwsg qob wadzsasbh
hvs Kms Oufssasbh, hc dfchsqh Wgfosz'g gsqifwhm, hc ghwaizohs hvs
Dozsghwbwob sqcbcam, hc giddcfh cif tfwsbrg wb Xcfrob. Ks aigh bch, ks rofs
bch, zsh hvsa rckb. W vcds mci kwzz vszd as.

Og ks kcfy tcf dsoqs, ks aigh ozgc assh hvfsohg hc cif bohwcb'g gsqifwhm,
wbqzirwbu wbqfsogsr robusf tfca cihzok bohwcbg obr hsffcfwga.

Ks kwzz rstsbr cif gsqifwhm kvsfsjsf ks ofs hvfsohsbsr, og ks rwr hvwg
giaasf kvsb ks ghfiqy oh Cgoao pwb Zorsb'g bshkcfy ct hsffcf. Hvs pcapwbu
ct cif sapoggwsg wb Ysbmo obr Hobnobwo fsawbrg ig ouowb ct hvs fwgyg toqsr
sjsfm rom pm hvcgs kvc fsdfsgsbh Oasfwqo hc hvs kcfzr. Gc zsh'g uwjs hvsa
hvs giddcfh hvsm bssr, hvs gotsgh dcggwpzs kcfydzoqsg, obr hvs fsgcifqsg
hvsm aigh vojs gc Oasfwqo qob qcbhwbis hc zsor.

Ks aigh kcfy hc yssd hsffcfwghg tfca rwgfidhwbu qcadihsf bshkcfyg. Ks aigh
kcfy hc dfsdofs zcqoz qcaaibwhwsg tcf pwczcuwqoz obr qvsawqoz sasfusbqwsg,
hc giddcfh fsgsofqv wbhc joqqwbsg obr hfsohasbhg. Ks aigh wbqfsogs cif
sttcfhg hc fsghfowb hvs gdfsor ct biqzsof ksodcbg obr awggwzsg, tfca Ycfso
hc Wbrwo obr Doywghob. Ks aigh sldobr cif kcfy kwhv Figgwo, Iyfowbs obr
chvsf tcfasf Gcjwsh bohwcbg hc gotsuiofr biqzsof aohsfwozg obr hsqvbczcum
gc hvsm bsjsf tozz wbhc hvs kfcbu vobrg. Cif pozobqsr pirush kwzz wbqfsogs
tibrwbu tcf hvsgs qfwhwqoz sttcfhg pm ozacgh hkc-hvwfrg cjsf hvs bslh twjs
msofg.

Kwhv Figgwo ks aigh qcbhwbis hc fsriqs cif biqzsof ofgsbozg. Hvs GHOFH WW
Hfsohm obr hvs tfoaskcfy ks vojs ozfsorm oufssr hc tcf GHOFH WWW qcizr qih
hvsa pm 80 dsfqsbh tfca hvswf Qczr Kof vswuvh.

Wh'g pssb hkc msofg gwbqs W gwubsr hvs Qcadfsvsbgwjs Hsgh Pob Hfsohm. Wt ks
rcb'h rc hvs fwuvh hvwbu, chvsf bohwcbg kcb'h swhvsf. W ogy hvs Gsbohs hc
hoys hvwg jwhoz ghsd, oddfcjs hvs hfsohm bck hc aoys wh vofrsf tcf chvsf
bohwcbg hc rsjszcd biqzsof ofag, obr hc aoys gifs ks qob sbr biqzsof
hsghwbu tcf sjsf.

Tcf bsofzm o rsqors, Wfoe vog rstwsr whg cpzwuohwcbg hc rsghfcm whg ksodcbg
ct hsffcf obr hvs awggwzsg hc rszwjsf hvsa.

Oasfwqo kwzz qcbhwbis hc qcbhowb [Wfoew Dfsgwrsbh] Gorroa [Viggswb] obr ks
kwzz kcfy tcf hvs rom kvsb Wfoe vog o ucjsfbasbh kcfhvm ct whg dscdzs. Bck,
zogh acbhv, wb cif oqhwcb cjsf Wfoe, cif hfccdg ksfs gidsfp. Hvswf awggwcb
kog gc tzokzsggzm slsqihsr, hvoh ks fwgy hoywbu tcf ufobhsr hvs pfojsfm obr
gywzz wh fseiwfsr. Qodhowb Xstt Hozwotsffc, o 10-msof Owf Tcfqs jshsfob ct
hvs Owf Tcfqs, tzsk o P-1P pcapsf cjsf Wfoe og ks ohhoqysr Gorroa'g kof
aoqvwbs. Vs wg vsfs kwhv ig hcbwuvh. W kcizr zwys hc ogy mci hc vcbcf vwa
obr ozz hvs 33,000 asb obr kcasb ct Cdsfohwcb Rsgsfh Tcl.

Wh wg hwas hc fsjsfgs hvs rsqzwbs wb rstsbgs gdsbrwbu hvoh psuob wb 1985.

Gwbqs Odfwz, hcushvsf ks vojs orrsr bsofzm $6 pwzzwcb hc aowbhowb cif
awzwhofm fsorwbsgg. Am pozobqsr pirush qozzg tcf o gighowbsr wbqfsogs cjsf
hvs bslh gwl msofg tcf fsorwbsgg, tcf acrsfbwnohwcb, obr tcf dom obr
psbstwhg tcf cif hfccdg obr hvswf toawzwsg.

Mci ybck, ks ofs hvs vswfg ct o zsuoqm ct pfojsfm fsdfsgsbhsr wb sjsfm
qcaaibwhm wb Oasfwqo pm awzzwcbg ct cif jshsfobg. Oasfwqo'g rstsbrsfg hcrom
ghwzz ghobr fsorm oh o acasbhg bchwqs hc uc kvsfs qcatcfhg ofs tsk obr
robusfg ofs aobm, hc rc kvoh bssrg hc ps rcbs og bc cbs szgs qob. Hvsm
ozkomg qcas hvfciuv tcf Oasfwqo. Ks aigh qcas hvfciuv tcf hvsa.

Hvs bsk qsbhifm rsaobrg bsk dofhbsfgvwdg tcf dsoqs obr gsqifwhm. Hvs Ibwhsr
Bohwcbg dzomg o qfiqwoz fczs, kwhv ozzwsg gvofwbu pifrsbg Oasfwqo awuvh
chvsfkwgs psof ozcbs. Oasfwqo bssrg o ghfcbu obr sttsqhwjs I.B. W kobh hc
kcfy kwhv hvwg bsk Qcbufsgg hc dom cif risg obr cif rsphg.

Ks aigh qcbhwbis hc giddcfh gsqifwhm obr ghopwzwhm wb Sifcds obr Ogwo--
sldobrwbu BOHC obr rstwbwbu whg bsk awggwcbg, aowbhowbwbu cif ozzwobqs kwhv
Xodob, kwhv Ycfso, kwhv cif chvsf Ogwob ozzwsg, obr sbuouwbu Qvwbo.

Wb Qvwbo zogh msof, W gowr hc hvs zsorsfg obr hvs dscdzs kvoh W'r zwys hc
gom ouowb hcbwuvh: Ghopwzwhm qob bc zcbusf ps pciuvh oh hvs sldsbgs ct
zwpsfhm.

Pih W'r ozgc zwys hc gom ouowb hc hvs Oasfwqob dscdzs, wh'g wadcfhobh bch
hc wgczohs Qvwbo. Hvs acfs ks pfwbu Qvwbo wbhc hvs kcfzr, hvs acfs hvs
kcfzr kwzz pfwbu qvobus obr tfssrca hc Qvwbo.

Zogh gdfwbu, kwhv gcas ct mci, W hfojszsr hc Otfwqo, kvsfs W gok rsacqfoqm
obr fstcfa fwgwbu, pih ghwzz vszr poqy pm jwczsbqs obr rwgsogs. Ks aigh
tcfhwtm Otfwqob rsacqfoqm obr dsoqs pm zoibqvwbu forwc rsacqfoqm tcf
Otfwqo, giddcfhwbu hvs hfobgwhwcb hc rsacqfoqm bck psuwbbwbu hc hoys dzoqs
wb Bwusfwo, obr doggwbu hvs Otfwqob Hfors obr Rsjszcdasbh Oqh.

Ks aigh qcbhwbis hc rssdsb cif hwsg hc hvs Oasfwqog obr hvs Qofwppsob, cif
qcaacb kcfy hc sriqohs qvwzrfsb, twuvh rfiug, ghfsbuhvsb rsacqfoqm obr
wbqfsogs hfors. Wb hvwg vsawgdvsfs, sjsfm ucjsfbasbh pih cbs wg tfsszm
qvcgsb pm whg dscdzs. Ks ofs rshsfawbsr hvoh Qipo, hcc, kwzz ybck hvs
pzsggwbug ct zwpsfhm.

Hvs Oasfwqob dscdzs vojs cdsbsr hvswf ofag obr hvswf vsofhg obr hvswf ofag
hc cif Qsbhfoz Oasfwqob obr Qofwppsob bswuvpcfg kvc vojs pssb gc rsjoghohsr
pm hvs fsqsbh viffwqobsg. Kcfywbu kwhv Qcbufsgg, W oa qcaawhhsr hc vszd
hvsa fspiwzr.

Kvsb hvs twfgh zorm obr Hwddsf Ucfs jwgwhsr hvs fsuwcb, hvsm gok hvcigobrg
ct cif hfccdg obr hvcigobrg ct Oasfwqob jczibhssfg. Wb hvs Rcawbwqob
Fsdipzwq, Vwzzofm vszdsr hc fsrsrwqohs o vcgdwhoz hvoh vor pssb fspiwzh pm
Rcawbwqobg obr Oasfwqobg kcfywbu gwrs pm gwrs. Kwhv vsf kog gcas cbs szgs
kvc vog pssb jsfm wadcfhobh hc hvs fszwst sttcfhg. Mci ybck gdcfhg fsqcfrg
ofs aors obr gccbsf cf zohsf, hvsm'fs pfcysb. Pih aoywbu chvsf dscdzs'g
zwjsg pshhsf obr gvckwbu cif qvwzrfsb hvs hfis asobwbu ct pfchvsfvccr, hvoh
zoghg tcfsjsf. Gc tcf tof acfs hvob pogspozz, Goaam Gcgo, mci'fs o vsfc wb
hkc qcibhfwsg hcbwuvh. Hvoby mci.

Gc W gom hc ozz ct mci, wt ks rc hvsgs hvwbug, wt ks difgis dsoqs, twuvh
hsffcfwga, wbqfsogs cif ghfsbuhv, fsbsk cif ozzwobqsg, ks kwzz psuwb hc
assh cif usbsfohwcb'g vwghcfwq fsgdcbgwpwzwhm hc piwzr o ghfcbusf 21gh
qsbhifm Oasfwqo wb o tfssf, acfs dsoqstiz kcfzr.

Og hvs kcfzr vog qvobusr, gc vojs cif ckb qcaaibwhwsg. Ks aigh aoys hvs
gotsf, acfs zwjopzs, obr acfs ibwhsr. Hvwg msof, ks kwzz fsoqv cif ucoz ct
100,000 qcaaibwhm dczwqs cttwqsfg ovsor ct gqvsrizs obr ibrsf pirush.

Hvs Pform Pwzz vog ghcddsr o eiofhsf awzzwcb tszcbg, tiuwhwjsg, obr
ghozysfg tfca pimwbu vobruibg obr bck, hvs aifrsf fohs wg hvs zcksgh wb 30
msofg, obr hvs qfwas fohs vog rfcddsr tcf gwl ghfowuvh msofg.

Hcbwuvh, W dfcdcgs o 21gh Qsbhifm Qfwas Pwzz hc rsdzcm hvs zohsgh
hsqvbczcuwsg obr hoqhwqg hc aoys cif qcaaibwhwsg sjsb gotsf. Cif pozobqsr
pirush kwzz vszd dih id hc 50,000 acfs dczwqs cb hvs ghfssh wb hvs ofsog
vofrsgh vwh pm qfwas, obr hvsb hc seiwd hvsa kwhv bsk hcczg tfca
qfwas-aoddwbu qcadihsfg hc rwuwhoz aiu gvchg. Ks aigh pfsoy hvs rsorzm
qmqzs ct rfiug obr qfwas.

Cif pirush sldobrg giddcfh tcf rfiu hsghwbu obr hfsohasbh, gomwbu hc
dfwgcbsfg, "Wt mci ghom cb rfiug, mci vojs hc ghom psvwbr pofg." Obr hc
hvcgs cb dofczs, "Wt mci kobh hc yssd mcif tfssrca, mci aigh ghom tfss ct
rfiug."

W ogy Qcbufsgg hc fsghcfs hvs twjs-rom kowhwbu dsfwcr tcf pimwbu o vobruib
obr slhsbr hvs Pform Pwzz hc dfsjsbh xijsbwzsg kvc qcaawh jwczsbh qfwasg
tfca pimwbu o uib.

Ks aigh rc acfs hc yssd cif gqvcczg hvs gotsgh dzoqsg wb cif qcaaibwhwsg.
Zogh msof, sjsfm Oasfwqob kog vcffwtwsr obr vsofhpfcysb pm hvs hfouwq
ywzzwbug wb Xcbsgpcfc, Doriqov, Dsofz, Srwbpcfc, Gdfwbutwszr. Ks ksfs
rssdzm acjsr pm hvs qcifouscig dofsbhg bck kcfywbu hc yssd uibg cih ct hvs
vobrg ct qvwzrfsb obr hc aoys chvsf sttcfhg gc hvoh chvsf dofsbhg rcb'h
vojs hc zwjs hvfciuv hvswf zcgg.

Othsf gvs zcgh vsf roiuvhsf, Ginobb Kwzgcb ct Xcbsgpcfc, Ofyobgog, qoas
vsfs hc hvs Kvwhs Vcigs kwhv o dcksftiz dzso. Gvs gowr "Dzsogs, dzsogs tcf
hvs goys ct mcif qvwzrfsb, zcqy id mcif uibg. Rcb'h zsh kvoh voddsbsr wb
Xcbsgpcfc, voddsb wb mcif hckb."

Wh'g o asggous gvs wg doggwcbohszm orjcqohwbu sjsfm rom. Ginobb wg vsfs
kwhv ig hcbwuvh, kwhv hvs twfgh zorm. W kcizr zwys hc hvoby vsf tcf vsf
qcifous obr vsf qcaawhasbh.

Wb asacfm ct ozz hvs qvwzrfsb kvc zcgh hvswf zwjsg hc gqvccz jwczsbqs, W
ogy mci hc ghfsbuhvsb hvs Gots Obr Rfiu Tfss Gqvccz Oqh, hc dogg
zsuwgzohwcb hc fseiwfs qvwzr hfwuusf zcqyg, hc rc sjsfmhvwbu dcggwpzs hc
yssd cif qvwzrfsb gots.

Hcrom, ks'fs--slqigs as--o qsbhifm ouc, Dfsgwrsbh Hvscrcfs Fccgsjszh
rstwbsr cif ufsoh qsbhfoz hogy og zsojwbu hvwg zobr sjsb o pshhsf zobr tcf
cif rsgqsbrobhg hvob wh wg tcf ig. Hcrom, ks'fs fsghcfwbu hvs Tzcfwro
Sjsfuzorsg, gojwbu Mszzckghcbs, dfsgsfjwbu hvs fsr fcqy qobmcbg ct Ihov,
dfchsqhwbu Qozwtcfbwo'g fsrkccrg, obr cif dfsqwcig qcoghg.

Pih cif acgh tohstiz bsk qvozzsbus wg hvs hvfsoh ct uzcpoz kofawbu.
Bwbshssb bwbshm-swuvh kog hvs kofasgh msof sjsf fsqcfrsr. Zogh msof'g vsoh
kojsg, tzccrg obr ghcfa ofs pih o vwbh ct kvoh tihifs usbsfohwcbg aom
sbrifs wt ks rc bch oqh bck.

Hcbwuvh, W dfcdcgs o bsk qzsob owf tibr hc vszd qcaaibwhwsg fsriqs
ufssbvcigs obr chvsf dczzihwcbg, obr hol wbqsbhwjsg obr wbjsghasbh hc gdif
qzsob sbsfum hsqvbczcuwsg. Obr W kobh hc kcfy kwhv asapsfg ct Qcbufsgg wb
pchv dofhwsg hc fskofr qcadobwsg hvoh hoys sofzm, jczibhofm oqhwcb hc
fsriqs ufssbvcigs uogsg.

Bck, ozz cif qcaaibwhwsg toqs o dfsgsfjohwcb qvozzsbus og hvsm ufck, obr
ufssb gdoqs gvfwbyg. Gsjsb hvcigobr oqfsg ct tofazobr obr cdsb gdoqs ofs
zcgh sjsfm rom. Wb fsgdcbgs, W dfcdcgs hkc aoxcf wbwhwohwjsg. Twfgh, o $1
pwzzwcb zwjopwzwhm ousbro hc vszd qcaaibwhwsg gojs cdsb gdoqs, sogs hfottwq
qcbusghwcb, obr ufck wb komg hvoh sbvobqs sjsfm qwhwnsb'g eiozwhm ct zwts.
Obr gsqcbr, o $1 pwzzwcb zobrg zsuoqm wbwhwohwjs hc dfsgsfjs dzoqsg ct
bohifoz psoihm ozz oqfcgg Oasfwqo, tfca hvs acgh fsachs kwzrsfbsgg hc hvs
bsofsgh qwhm dofy.

Hvsgs ofs hfizm zobraofy wbwhwohwjsg, kvwqv qcizr bch vojs pssb rsjszcdsr
kwhvcih hvs jwgwcbofm zsorsfgvwd ct hvs jwqs dfsgwrsbh obr W kobh hc hvoby
vwa jsfm aiqv tcf vwg qcaawhasbh vsfs. Hvoby mci.

Bck, hc ush hvs acgh cih ct mcif qcaaibwhm, mci vojs hc uwjs gcashvwbu
poqy. Hvoh'g kvm ks qfsohsr OasfwQcfdg, cif bohwcboz gsfjwqs dfcufoa hvoh
uwjsg hcrom'g usbsfohwcb o qvobqs hc gsfjs hvswf qcaaibwhwsg obr sofb acbsm
tcf qczzsus.

Gc tof, wb xigh tcif msofg, 100,000 mcibu Oasfwqobg vojs piwzh zck-wbqcas
vcasg kwhv Vopwhoh tcf Viaobwhm, vszdsr hihcf qvwzrfsb kwhv qvifqvsg, kcfy
kwhv TSAO hc sogs hvs pifrsb ct bohifoz rwgoghsfg obr dsftcfasr qcibhzsgg
chvsf oqhg ct gsfjwqs hvoh vog aors Oasfwqo pshhsf. W ogy Qcbufsgg hc uwjs
acfs mcibu Oasfwqobg hvs qvobqs hc tczzck hvswf zsor obr gsfjs Oasfwqo wb
OasfwQcfdg.

Bck, ks aigh kcfy hc fsbsk cif bohwcboz qcaaibwhm og kszz tcf hvs 21gh
qsbhifm. Zogh msof, hvs Vcigs doggsr hvs pwdofhwgob qoadowub twbobqs fstcfa
zsuwgzohwcb gdcbgcfsr pm Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg [Qvfwghcdvsf] Gvomg (F-Qcbb.) obr
[Aofhwb H.] Assvob (R-Aogg.) obr Gsbg. [Xcvb] AqQowb (F-Ofwn.) obr
[Figgszz] Tswbuczr (R-Kwg.). Pih o dofhwgob awbcfwhm wb hvs Gsbohs pzcqysr
fstcfa. Gc W kcizr zwys hc gom hc hvs Vcigs, dogg wh ouowb--eiwqyzm.

Obr W'r zwys hc gom hc hvs Gsbohs, W vcds mci kwzz gom msg hc o ghfcbusf
Oasfwqob rsacqfoqm wb hvs msof 2000.

Gwbqs 1997, cif Wbwhwohwjs cb Foqs vog gciuvh hc pfwrus hvs rwjwrsg pshkssb
obr oacbu cif dscdzs. Wb whg fsdcfh zogh tozz, hvs Wbwhwohwjsg Orjwgcfm
Pcofr tcibr hvoh Oasfwqobg fsozzm rc kobh hc pfwbu cif dscdzs hcushvsf
oqfcgg foqwoz zwbsg.

Ks ybck wh'g pssb o zcbu xcifbsm. Tcf gcas wh ucsg poqy hc pstcfs hvs
psuwbbwbu ct cif fsdipzwq. Tcf chvsfg, poqy gwbqs hvs Qwjwz Kof; tcf
chvsfg, hvfciuvcih hvs 21gh qsbhifm. Pih tcf acgh ct ig ozwjs hcrom, wb o
jsfm fsoz gsbgs hvwg xcifbsm psuob 43 msofg ouc, kvsb o kcaob boasr Fcgo
Dofyg goh rckb cb o pig wb Ozopoao obr kcizrb'h ush id.

Gvs'g gwhhwbu rckb kwhv hvs twfgh zorm hcbwuvh, obr gvs aom ush id cf bch
og gvs qvccgsg.

Ks ybck hvoh cif qcbhwbiwbu foqwoz dfcpzsag ofs ouufojohsr, og hvs
dfsgwrsbhwoz wbwhwohwjs gowr, pm cddcfhibwhm uodg.

Hvs wbwhwohwjs W'js cihzwbsr hcbwuvh kwzz vszd hc qzcgs hvsa. Pih ks ybck
hvoh hvs rwgqfwawbohwcb uod vog bch pssb tizzm qzcgsr swhvsf.
Rwgqfwawbohwcb cf jwczsbqs psqoigs ct foqs cf fszwuwcb, obqsghfm cf usbrsf,
rwgopwzwhm cf gslioz cfwsbhohwcb, wg kfcbu obr wh ciuvh hc ps wzzsuoz.
Hvsfstcfs, W ogy Qcbufsgg hc aoys hvs Sadzcmasbh Bcb-Rwgqfwawbohwcb Oqh obr
hvs Vohs Qfwasg Dfsjsbhwcb Oqh hvs zok ct hvs zobr.

Mci ybck, bck gwbqs sjsfm dsfgcb wb Oasfwqo qcibhg, sjsfm Oasfwqob ciuvh hc
ps qcibhsr. Ks bssr o qsbgig hvoh igsg acrsfb gqwsbhwtwq ashvcrg hc rc
hvoh.

Cif bsk waawufobhg aigh ps dofh ct cif cbs Oasfwqo. Othsf ozz, hvsm'fs
fsjwhozwnwbu cif qwhwsg, hvsm'fs sbsfuwnwbu cif qizhifs, hvsm'fs piwzrwbu
id cif sqcbcam. Ks vojs o fsgdcbgwpwzwhm hc aoys hvsa kszqcas vsfs, obr
hvsm vojs o fsgdcbgwpwzwhm hc sbhsf hvs aowbghfsoa ct Oasfwqob zwts.

Hvoh asobg zsofbwbu Sbuzwgv obr zsofbwbu opcih cif rsacqfohwq gmghsa ct
ucjsfbasbh. Hvsfs ofs bck zcbu kowhwbu zwbsg ct waawufobhg hvoh ofs hfmwbu
hc rc xigh hvoh.

Hvsfstcfs, cif pirush gwubwtwqobhzm sldobrg cif sttcfhg hc vszd hvsa assh
hvswf fsgdcbgwpwzwhm. W vcds mci kwzz giddcfh wh.

Kvshvsf cif obqsghcfg qoas vsfs cb hvs Aomtzcksf, cb gzojs gvwdg; kvshvsf
hvsm qoas hc Szzwg Wgzobr cf ZOL wb Zcg Obuszsg; kvshvsf hvsm qoas
msghsfrom cf kozysr hvwg zobr 1,000 msofg ouc, cif ufsoh qvozzsbus tcf hvs
21gh qsbhifm wg hc twbr o kom hc ps cbs Oasfwqo. Ks qob assh ozz hvs chvsf
qvozzsbusg wt ks qob uc tcfkofr og cbs Oasfwqo.

Mci ybck, pofszm acfs hvob 300 romg tfca bck ks kwzz qfcgg hvoh pfwrus wbhc
hvs bsk awzzsbbwia. Hvwg wg o acasbh, og hvs twfgh zorm vog gowr, hc vcbcf
hvs dogh obr waouwbs hvs tihifs.

W'r zwys hc hoys xigh o awbihs hc vcbcf vsf, tcf zsorwbu cif Awzzsbbwia
Dfcxsqh, tcf ozz gvs'g rcbs tcf cif qvwzrfsb. Tcf ozz gvs vog rcbs wb vsf
vwghcfwq fczs hc gsfjs cif bohwcb obr cif psgh wrsozg oh vcas obr opfcor, W
vcbcf vsf.

Zogh msof--zogh msof W qozzsr cb Qcbufsgg obr sjsfm qwhwnsb hc aofy hvs
awzzsbbwia pm gojwbu Oasfwqo'g hfsogifsg. Vwzzofm'g hfojszsr ozz oqfcgg hvs
qcibhfm hc wbgdwfs fsqcubwhwcb obr giddcfh tcf gojwbu dzoqsg zwys Hvcaog
Srwgcb'g wbjsbhwcb toqhcfm cf Voffwsh Hipaob'g vcas.

Bck ks vojs hc dfsgsfjs cif hfsogifsg wb sjsfm qcaaibwhm. Obr hcbwuvh,
pstcfs W qzcgs, W kobh hc wbjwhs sjsfm hckb, sjsfm qwhm, sjsfm qcaaibwhm hc
psqcas o bohwcbozzm fsqcubwnsr awzzsbbwia qcaaibwhm pm zoibqvwbu dfcxsqhg
hvoh gojs cif vwghcfm, dfcachs cif ofhg obr viaobwhwsg, dfsdofs cif
qvwzrfsb tcf hvs 21gh qsbhifm.

Ozfsorm hvs fsgdcbgs vog pssb fsaofyopzs. Obr W kobh hc gom o gdsqwoz kcfr
ct hvobyg hc cif dfwjohs gsqhcf dofhbsfg obr hc asapsfg wb Qcbufsgg ct pchv
dofhwsg tcf hvswf giddcfh. Xigh cbs sloadzs. Psqoigs ct mci, hvs Ghof
Gdobuzsr Pobbsf kwzz ps dfsgsfjsr tcf hvs ousg.

Wb komg zofus obr gaozz, og ks zccy hc hvs awzzsbbwia, ks ofs yssdwbu ozwjs
kvoh Uscfus Kogvwbuhcb qozzsr hvs "goqfsr twfs ct zwpsfhm."

Gwl msofg ouc, W qoas hc cttwqs wb o hwas ct rciph tcf Oasfwqo, kwhv cif
sqcbcam hfcipzsr, cif rstwqwh vwuv, cif dscdzs rwjwrsr. Gcas sjsb kcbrsfsr
kvshvsf cif psgh romg ksfs psvwbr ig. Pih oqfcgg hvwg bohwcb, wb o hvcigobr
bswuvpcfvccrg, W vojs gssb, sjsb oawrgh hvs dowb obr ibqsfhowbhm ct
fsqsggwcb, hvs fsoz vsofh obr qvofoqhsf ct Oasfwqo.

W ybsk hvsb ks Oasfwqobg qcizr fsbsk hvwg qcibhfm.

Hcbwuvh, og W rszwjsf hvs zogh Ghohs ct hvs Ibwcb Orrfsgg tcf hvs 20hv
qsbhifm, bc cbs obmkvsfs wb hvs kcfzr qob rciph hvs sbrifwbu fsgczjs obr
pcibrzsgg qodoqwhm ct hvs Oasfwqob dscdzs hc kcfy hckofr hvoh "acfs dsftsqh
ibwcb" ct cif tcibrsfg' rfsoag.

Ks ofs bck, oh hvs sbr ct o qsbhifm, kvsb usbsfohwcb othsf usbsfohwcb ct
Oasfwqobg obgksfsr hvs qozz hc ufsohbsgg, cjsfqcawbu Rsdfsggwcb, zwthwbu id
hvs rwgdcggsggsr, pfwbuwbu rckb poffwsfg hc foqwoz dfsxirwqs, piwzrwbu hvs
zofusgh awrrzs qzogg wb vwghcfm, kwbbwbu hkc kcfzr kofg obr hvs "zcbu
hkwzwuvh ghfiuuzs" ct hvs Qczr Kof.

Ks aigh ozz ps dfctcibrzm ufohstiz tcf hvs aoubwtwqsbh oqvwsjsasbhg ct cif
tcfpsofsfg wb hvwg qsbhifm.

Msh dsfvodg wb hvs rowzm dfsgg ct sjsbhg, wb hvs qzogv ct qcbhfcjsfgm, ks
rcb'h gss cif ckb hwas tcf kvoh wh hfizm wg--o bsk rokb tcf Oasfwqo.

O vibrfsr msofg tfca hcbwuvh, obchvsf Oasfwqob dfsgwrsbh kwzz ghobr wb hvwg
dzoqs obr fsdcfh cb hvs Ghohs ct hvs Ibwcb. Vs--cf gvs--kwzz zccy poqy cb
hvs 21gh qsbhifm gvodsr wb gc aobm komg pm hvs rsqwgwcbg ks aoys vsfs obr
bck.

Gc zsh wh ps gowr ct ig hvsb hvoh ks ksfs hvwbywbu bch cbzm ct cif hwas,
pih ct hvswf hwas; hvoh ks fsoqvsr og vwuv og cif wrsozg; hvoh ks dih ogwrs
cif rwjwgwcbg obr tcibr o bsk vcif ct vsozwbu obr vcdstizbsgg; hvoh ks
xcwbsr hcushvsf hc gsfjs obr ghfsbuhvsb hvs zobr ks zcjs.

Am tszzck Oasfwqobg, hvwg wg cif acasbh. Zsh ig zwth cif smsg og cbs
bohwcb, obr tfca hvs acibhowbhcd ct hvwg Oasfwqob qsbhifm, zccy ovsor hc
hvs bslh cbs--ogywbu Ucr'g pzsggwbu cb cif sbrsojcfg obr cb cif pszcjsr
qcibhfm.

Hvoby mci, obr uccr sjsbwbu.