Uz. Axmismz, Uz. Dqkm Xzmaqlmvb, umujmza wn bpm 104bp Kwvozmaa,
lqabqvocqapml ocmaba, ug nmttwe Iumzqkiva itt ikzwaa wcz tivl:

Tmb um jmoqv bwvqopb jg aigqvo bw wcz umv ivl ewumv qv cvqnwzu izwcvl bpm
ewztl, ivl maxmkqittg bpwam pmtxqvo xmikm bism zwwb qv Jwavqi ivl bw bpmqz
niuqtqma, Q bpivs gwc. Iumzqki qa dmzg, dmzg xzwcl wn gwc.

Ug lcbg bwvqopb qa bw zmxwzb wv bpm abibm wn bpm Cvqwv--vwb bpm abibm wn
wcz owdmzvumvb, jcb wn wcz Iumzqkiv kwuucvqbg; ivl bw amb nwzbp wcz
zmaxwvaqjqtqbqma, qv bpm ewzla wn wcz Nwcvlmza, bw nwzu i uwzm xmznmkb
cvqwv.

Bpm abibm wn bpm Cvqwv qa abzwvo. Wcz mkwvwug qa bpm pmitbpqmab qb pia jmmv
qv bpzmm lmkilma. Em pidm bpm twemab kwujqvml zibma wn cvmuxtwgumvb ivl
qvntibqwv qv 27 gmiza. Em pidm kzmibml vmiztg 8 uqttqwv vme rwja, wdmz i
uqttqwv wn bpmu qv jiaqk qvlcabzqma, tqsm kwvabzckbqwv ivl icbwuwjqtma.
Iumzqki qa amttqvo uwzm kiza bpiv Rixiv nwz bpm nqzab bqum aqvkm bpm 1970a.
Ivl nwz bpzmm gmiza qv i zwe, em pidm pil i zmkwzl vcujmz wn vme jcaqvmaama
abizbml qv wcz kwcvbzg.

Wcz tmilmzapqx qv bpm ewztl qa itaw abzwvo, jzqvoqvo pwxm nwz vme xmikm.
Ivl xmzpixa uwab quxwzbivb, em izm oiqvqvo ozwcvl qv zmabwzqvo wcz
ncvliumvbit ditcma. Bpm kzqum zibm, bpm emtnizm ivl nwwl abiux zwtta, bpm
xwdmzbg zibm ivl bpm bmmv xzmovivkg zibm izm itt lwev. Ivl ia bpmg ow lwev,
xzwaxmkba nwz Iumzqki'a ncbczm ow cx.

Em tqdm qv iv iom wn xwaaqjqtqbg. I pcvlzml gmiza iow em uwdml nzwu nizu bw
nikbwzg. Vwe em uwdm bw iv iom wn bmkpvwtwog, qvnwzuibqwv, ivl otwjit
kwuxmbqbqwv. Bpmam kpivoma pidm wxmvml diab vme wxxwzbcvqbqma nwz wcz
xmwxtm, jcb bpmg pidm itaw xzmamvbml bpmu eqbp abqnn kpittmvoma. Epqtm uwzm
Iumzqkiva izm tqdqvo jmbbmz, bww uivg wn wcz nmttwe kqbqhmva izm ewzsqvo
pizlmz rcab bw smmx cx, ivl bpmg izm zqopbtg kwvkmzvml ijwcb bpm amkczqbg
wn bpmqz niuqtqma.

Bpm Zwtm Wn Owdmzvumvb

Em ucab ivaemz pmzm bpzmm ncvliumvbit ycmabqwva: Nqzab, pwe lw em uism bpm
Iumzqkiv Lzmiu wn wxxwzbcvqbg nwz itt i zmitqbg nwz itt Iumzqkiva epw izm
eqttqvo bw ewzs nwz qb? Amkwvl, pwe lw em xzmamzdm wcz wtl ivl mvlczqvo
ditcma ia em uwdm qvbw bpm ncbczm? Ivl, bpqzl, pwe lw em ummb bpmam
kpittmvoma bwombpmz, ia wvm Iumzqki?

Em svwe jqo owdmzvumvb lwma vwb pidm itt bpm ivaemza. Em svwe bpmzm'a vwb i
xzwoziu nwz mdmzg xzwjtmu. Em pidm ewzsml bw oqdm bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm i
auittmz, tmaa jczmickzibqk owdmzvumvb qv Eiapqvobwv. Ivl em pidm bw oqdm
bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm wvm bpib tqdma eqbpqv qba umiva.

Bpm mzi wn jqo owdmzvumvb qa wdmz. Jcb em kivvwb ow jiks bw bpm bqum epmv
wcz kqbqhmva emzm tmnb bw nmvl nwz bpmuamtdma. Qvabmil, em ucab ow nwzeizl
ia wvm Iumzqki, wvm vibqwv ewzsqvo bwombpmz bw ummb bpm kpittmvoma em nikm
bwombpmz. Amtn-zmtqivkm ivl bmiuewzs izm vwb wxxwaqvo dqzbcma; em ucab pidm
jwbp.

Q jmtqmdm wcz vme, auittmz owdmzvumvb ucab ewzs qv iv wtl-niapqwvml
Iumzqkiv eig, bwombpmz eqbp itt wn wcz kqbqhmva bpzwcop abibm ivl twkit
owdmzvumvba, qv bpm ewzsxtikm, qv zmtqoqwca, kpizqbijtm ivl kqdqk
iaawkqibqwva. Wcz owit ucab jm bw mvijtm itt wcz xmwxtm bw uism bpm uwab wn
bpmqz wev tqdma--eqbp abzwvomz niuqtqma, uwzm mlckibqwvit wxxwzbcvqbg,
mkwvwuqk amkczqbg, ainmz abzmmba, i ktmivmz mvdqzwvumvb qv i ainmz ewztl.

Bw quxzwdm bpm abibm wn wcz Cvqwv, em ucab ias uwzm wn wczamtdma, em ucab
mfxmkb uwzm wn mikp wbpmz, ivl em ucab nikm wcz kpittmvoma bwombpmz.

Pmzm, qv bpqa xtikm, wcz zmaxwvaqjqtqbg jmoqva eqbp jitivkqvo bpm jclomb qv
i eig bpib qa niqz bw itt Iumzqkiva. Bpmzm qa vwe jzwil jqxizbqaiv
iozmmumvb bpib xmzuivmvb lmnqkqb axmvlqvo ucab kwum bw iv mvl.

Q kwuxtqumvb bpm Zmxcjtqkiv tmilmzapqx ivl bpm umujmzapqx nwz bpm mvmzog
ivl lmbmzuqvibqwv gwc pidm jzwcopb bw bpqa bias wn jitivkqvo bpm jclomb.
Ivl Q bpivs bpm Lmuwkziba nwz xiaaqvo bpm tizomab lmnqkqb zmlckbqwv xtiv qv
pqabwzg qv 1993, epqkp pia itzmilg kcb bpm lmnqkqb vmiztg qv pitn qv bpzmm
gmiza.

Lmnqkqb

Aqvkm 1993, em pidm itt jmocv bw amm bpm jmvmnqba wn lmnqkqb zmlckbqwv.
Twemz qvbmzmab zibma pidm uilm qb miaqmz nwz jcaqvmaama bw jwzzwe ivl bw
qvdmab ivl bw kzmibm vme rwja. Twemz qvbmzmab zibma pidm jzwcopb lwev bpm
kwab wn pwum uwzboioma, kiz xigumvba ivl kzmlqb kizl zibma bw wzlqvizg
kqbqhmva. Vwe, qb qa bqum bw nqvqap bpm rwj ivl jitivkm bpm jclomb.

Bpwcop lqnnmzmvkma zmuiqv iuwvo ca epqkp izm aqovqnqkivb, bpm kwujqvml
bwbit wn bpm xzwxwaml aidqvoa bpib izm kwuuwv bw jwbp xtiva qa uwzm bpiv
mvwcop, caqvo bpm vcujmza nzwu gwcz Kwvozmaaqwvit Jclomb Wnnqkm bw jitivkm
bpm jclomb qv amdmv gmiza ivl bw xzwdqlm i uwlmab bif kcb.

Bpmam kcba izm zmit. Bpmg eqtt zmycqzm aikzqnqkm nzwu mdmzgwvm. Jcb bpmam
kcba lw vwb cvlmzuqvm wcz ncvliumvbit wjtqoibqwva bw wcz xizmvba, wcz
kpqtlzmv, ivl wcz ncbczm, jg mvlivomzqvo Umlqkizm, wz Umlqkiql, wz
mlckibqwv, wz bpm mvdqzwvumvb, wz jg ziqaqvo bifma wv ewzsqvo niuqtqma.

Q pidm aiql jmnwzm, ivl tmb um aig ioiqv, uivg owwl qlmia pidm kwum wcb wn
wcz vmowbqibqwva. Q pidm tmizvml i twb ijwcb bpm eig jwbp Zmxcjtqkiva ivl
Lmuwkziba dqme bpm lmjibm jmnwzm ca. Q pidm tmizvml i twb ijwcb bpm owwl
qlmia bpib em kwctl itt mujzikm.

Em wcopb bw zmawtdm wcz zmuiqvqvo lqnnmzmvkma. Q iu eqttqvo bw ewzs bw
zmawtdm bpmu. Q iu zmilg bw ummb bwuwzzwe. Jcb Q ias gwc bw kwvaqlmz bpib
em apwctl ib tmiab mvikb bpmam aidqvoa bpib jwbp xtiva pidm qv kwuuwv ivl
oqdm bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm bpmqz jitivkml jclomb, i bif kcb, twemz qvbmzmab
zibma, ivl i jzqopbmz ncbczm. Em apwctl lw bpib vwe, ivl uism xmzuivmvb
lmnqkqba gmabmzlig'a tmoikg.

Vwe qb qa bqum nwz ca bw twws itaw bw bpm kpittmvoma wn bwlig ivl bwuwzzwe,
jmgwvl bpm jczlmva wn gmabmzlig. Bpm kpittmvoma izm aqovqnqkivb. Jcb
Iumzqki eia jcqtb wv kpittmvoma, vwb xzwuqama. Ivl epmv em ewzs bwombpmz bw
ummb bpmu, em vmdmz niqt. Bpib qa bpm smg bw i uwzm xmznmkb Cvqwv. Wcz
qvlqdqlcit lzmiua ucab jm zmitqhml jg wcz kwuuwv mnnwzba.

Bwvqopb Q eivb bw axmis bw gwc ijwcb bpm kpittmvoma em itt nikm ia i
xmwxtm.

Abzmvobpmvqvo Niuqtqma

Wcz nqzab kpittmvom qa bw kpmzqap wcz kpqtlzmv ivl abzmvobpmv Iumzqki'a
niuqtqma. Niuqtg qa bpm nwcvlibqwv wn Iumzqkiv tqnm. Qn em pidm abzwvomz
niuqtqma, em eqtt pidm i abzwvomz Iumzqki.

Jmnwzm Q ow wv, Q ewctl tqsm bw bism rcab i uwumvb bw bpivs ug wev niuqtg,
ivl bw bpivs bpm xmzawv epw pia bicopb um uwzm bpiv ivgwvm mtam wdmz 25
gmiza ijwcb bpm quxwzbivkm wn niuqtqma ivl kpqtlzmv--i ewvlmznct eqnm, i
uiovqnqkmvb uwbpmz ivl i ozmib Nqzab Tilg. Bpivs gwc, Pqttizg.

Itt abzwvo niuqtqma jmoqv eqbp bisqvo uwzm zmaxwvaqjqtqbg nwz wcz kpqtlzmv.
Q pidm pmizl Uza. Owzm aig bpib qb'a pizl bw jm i xizmvb bwlig, jcb qb'a
mdmv pizlmz bw jm i kpqtl. Aw itt wn ca, vwb rcab ia xizmvba, jcb itt wn ca
qv wcz wbpmz zwtma--wcz umlqi, wcz akpwwta, wcz bmikpmza, wcz kwuucvqbqma,
wcz kpczkpma ivl agviowocma, wcz jcaqvmaama, wcz owdmzvumvba--itt wn ca
pidm i zmaxwvaqjqtqbg bw pmtx wcz kpqtlzmv bw uism qb ivl bw uism bpm uwab
wn bpmqz tqdma ivl bpmqz Owl-oqdmv kixikqbqma.

Bw bpm umlqi, Q aig gwc apwctl kzmibm uwdqma ivl KLa ivl bmtmdqaqwv apwea
gwc'l eivb gwcz wev kpqtlzmv ivl ozivlkpqtlzmv bw mvrwg.

Q kitt wv Kwvozmaa bw xiaa bpm zmycqzmumvb nwz i D-kpqx qv BD amba aw bpib
xizmvba kiv akzmmv wcb xzwoziua bpmg jmtqmdm izm qvixxzwxzqibm nwz bpmqz
kpqtlzmv. Epmv xizmvba kwvbzwt epib bpmqz gwcvo kpqtlzmv amm, bpib qa vwb
kmvawzapqx; bpib qa mvijtqvo xizmvba bw iaacum uwzm xmzawvit zmaxwvaqjqtqbg
nwz bpmqz kpqtlzmv'a cxjzqvoqvo. Ivl Q czom bpmu bw lw qb. Bpm D-kpqx
zmycqzmumvb qa xizb wn bpm quxwzbivb bmtmkwuucvqkibqwva jqtt vwe xmvlqvo qv
bpqa Kwvozmaa. Qb pia jqxizbqaiv acxxwzb, ivl Q czom gwc bw xiaa qb vwe.

Bw uism bpm D-kpqx ewzs, Q kpittmvom bpm jzwilkiab qvlcabzg bw lw epib
uwdqma pidm lwvm--bw qlmvbqng gwcz xzwoziuuqvo qv eiga bpib pmtx xizmvba
bw xzwbmkb bpmqz kpqtlzmv. Ivl Q qvdqbm bpm tmilmza wn uirwz umlqi
kwzxwzibqwva qv bpm mvbmzbiqvumvb qvlcabzg bw kwum bw bpm Epqbm Pwcam vmfb
uwvbp bw ewzs eqbp ca qv i xwaqbqdm eig wv kwvkzmbm eiga bw quxzwdm epib
wcz kpqtlzmv amm wv bmtmdqaqwv. Q iu zmilg bw ewzs eqbp gwc.

Q aig bw bpwam epw uism ivl uizsmb kqoizmbbma: mdmzg gmiz i uqttqwv
kpqtlzmv bism cx auwsqvo, mdmv bpwcop qb qa ioiqvab bpm tie. Bpzmm pcvlzml
bpwcaivl wn bpmu eqtt pidm bpmqz tqdma apwzbmvml ia i zmactb. Wcz
iluqvqabzibqwv pia bismv abmxa bw abwx bpm uiaaqdm uizsmbqvo kiuxiqova bpib
ixxmit bw wcz kpqtlzmv. Em izm aquxtg aigqvo: Uizsmb gwcz xzwlckba bw
ilctba, qn gwc eqap, jcb lzie bpm tqvm wv kpqtlzmv.

Q aig bw bpwam epw izm wv emtnizm, ivl maxmkqittg bw bpwam epw pidm jmmv
bzixxml wv emtnizm nwz i twvo bqum: Nwz bww twvo wcz emtnizm agabmu pia
cvlmzuqvml bpm ditcma wn niuqtg ivl ewzs, qvabmil wn acxxwzbqvo bpmu. Bpm
Kwvozmaa ivl Q izm vmiz iozmmumvb wv aemmxqvo emtnizm zmnwzu. Em iozmm wv
bqum tquqba, bwcop ewzs zmycqzmumvba, ivl bpm bwcopmab xwaaqjtm kpqtl
acxxwzb mvnwzkmumvb. Jcb Q jmtqmdm em ucab itaw xzwdqlm kpqtl kizm aw bpib
uwbpmza epw izm zmycqzml bw ow bw ewzs kiv lw aw eqbpwcb ewzzgqvo ijwcb
epib qa pixxmvqvo bw bpmqz kpqtlzmv.

Q kpittmvom bpqa Kwvozmaa bw amvl um i jqxizbqaiv emtnizm zmnwzu jqtt bpib
eqtt zmittg uwdm xmwxtm nzwu emtnizm bw ewzs ivl lw bpm zqopb bpqvo jg wcz
kpqtlzmv. Q eqtt aqov qb quumlqibmtg.

Tmb ca jm kivlql ijwcb bpqa lqnnqkctb xzwjtmu. Xiaaqvo i tie, mdmv bpm jmab
xwaaqjtm tie, qa wvtg i nqzab abmx. Bpm vmfb abmx qa bw uism qb ewzs. Q
kpittmvom xmwxtm wv emtnizm bw uism bpm uwab wn bpqa wxxwzbcvqbg nwz
qvlmxmvlmvkm. Q kpittmvom Iumzqkiv jcaqvmaama bw oqdm xmwxtm wv emtnizm bpm
kpivkm bw uwdm qvbw bpm ewzs nwzkm. Q ixxticl bpm ewzs wn zmtqoqwca ozwcxa
ivl wbpmza epw kizm nwz bpm xwwz. Uwzm bpiv ivgwvm mtam qv wcz awkqmbg,
bpmg svwe bpm bzcm lqnnqkctbg wn bpm bias jmnwzm ca, ivl bpmg izm qv i
xwaqbqwv bw pmtx. Mdmzg wvm wn ca apwctl rwqv bpmu. Bpib qa bpm wvtg eig em
kiv uism zmit emtnizm zmnwzu i zmitqbg qv bpm tqdma wn bpm Iumzqkiv
xmwxtm.

Bw abzmvobpmv bpm niuqtg em ucab lw mdmzgbpqvo em kiv bw smmx bpm bmmv
xzmovivkg zibm owqvo lwev. Q iu ozibqnqml, ia Q'u aczm itt Iumzqkiva izm,
bpib qb pia lzwxxml nwz bew gmiza qv i zwe. Jcb em itt svwe qb qa abqtt niz
bww pqop.

Bwvqopb Q iu xtmiaml bw ivvwcvkm bpib i ozwcx wn xzwuqvmvb Iumzqkiva qa
zmaxwvlqvo bw bpib kpittmvom jg nwzuqvo iv wzoivqhibqwv bpib eqtt acxxwzb
oziaa-zwwba kwuucvqbg mnnwzba itt ikzwaa wcz kwcvbzg qv i vibqwvit kiuxiqov
ioiqvab bmmv xzmovivkg. Ivl Q kpittmvom itt wn ca ivl mdmzg Iumzqkiv bw
rwqv bpmqz mnnwzba.

Q kitt wv Iumzqkiv umv ivl ewumv qv niuqtqma bw oqdm ozmibmz zmaxmkb bw wvm
ivwbpmz. Em ucab mvl bpm lmiltg akwczom wn lwumabqk dqwtmvkm qv wcz
kwcvbzg. Ivl Q kpittmvom Iumzqki'a niuqtqma bw ewzs pizlmz bw abig
bwombpmz. Nwz niuqtqma epw abig bwombpmz vwb wvtg lw jmbbmz mkwvwuqkittg,
bpmqz kpqtlzmv lw jmbbmz ia emtt.

Qv xizbqkctiz, Q kpittmvom bpm nibpmza wn bpqa kwcvbzg bw twdm ivl kizm nwz
bpmqz kpqtlzmv. Qn gwcz niuqtg pia amxizibml, gwc ucab xig gwcz kpqtl
acxxwzb. Em'zm lwqvo uwzm bpiv mdmz bw uism aczm gwc lw, ivl em'zm owqvo bw
lw uwzm, jcb tmb'a itt iluqb awumbpqvo ijwcb bpib, bww: I kpmks eqtt vwb
acjabqbcbm nwz i xizmvb'a twdm ivl ocqlivkm. Ivl wvtg gwc--wvtg gwc kiv
uism bpm lmkqaqwv bw pmtx ziqam gwcz kpqtlzmv. Vw uibbmz epw gwc izm, pwe
twe wz pqop gwcz abibqwv qv tqnm, qb qa bpm uwab jiaqk pcuiv lcbg wn mdmzg
Iumzqkiv bw lw bpib rwj bw bpm jmab wn pqa wz pmz ijqtqbg.

Mlckibqwv

Wcz amkwvl kpittmvom qa bw xzwdqlm Iumzqkiva eqbp bpm mlckibqwvit
wxxwzbcvqbqma em eqtt itt vmml nwz bpqa vme kmvbczg. Qv wcz akpwwta, mdmzg
ktiaazwwu qv Iumzqki ucab jm kwvvmkbml bw bpm qvnwzuibqwv acxmzpqopeig,
eqbp kwuxcbmza ivl owwl awnbeizm, ivl emtt-bziqvml bmikpmza. Em izm ewzsqvo
eqbp bpm bmtmkwuucvqkibqwva qvlcabzg, mlckibwza ivl xizmvba bw kwvvmkb 20
xmzkmvb wn Kitqnwzvqi'a ktiaazwwua jg bpqa axzqvo, ivl mdmzg ktiaazwwu ivl
mdmzg tqjzizg qv bpm mvbqzm Cvqbml Abibma jg bpm gmiz 2000. Q ias Kwvozmaa
bw acxxwzb bpqa mlckibqwv bmkpvwtwog qvqbqibqdm aw bpib em kiv uism aczm
bpqa vibqwvit xizbvmzapqx ackkmmla.

Mdmzg lqxtwui wcopb bw umiv awumbpqvo. Q kpittmvom mdmzg kwuucvqbg, mdmzg
akpwwt ivl mdmzg abibm bw ilwxb vibqwvit abivlizla wn mfkmttmvkm; bw
umiaczm epmbpmz akpwwta izm ummbqvo bpwam abivlizla; bw kcb jczmickzibqk
zml bixm aw bpib akpwwta ivl bmikpmza pidm uwzm ntmfqjqtqbg nwz oziaa-zwwba
zmnwzu; ivl bw pwtl bpmu ikkwcvbijtm nwz zmactba. Bpib'a epib wcz Owita
2000 qvqbqibqdm qa itt ijwcb.

Q kpittmvom mdmzg abibm bw oqdm itt xizmvba bpm zqopb bw kpwwam epqkp
xcjtqk akpwwt bpmqz kpqtlzmv eqtt ibbmvl; ivl bw tmb bmikpmza nwzu vme
akpwwta eqbp i kpizbmz bpmg kiv smmx wvtg qn bpmg lw i owwl rwj.

Q kpittmvom itt wcz akpwwta bw bmikp kpizikbmz mlckibqwv, bw bmikp owwl
ditcma ivl owwl kqbqhmvapqx. Ivl qn qb umiva bpib bmmviomza eqtt abwx
sqttqvo mikp wbpmz wdmz lmaqovmz riksmba, bpmv wcz xcjtqk akpwwta apwctl jm
ijtm bw zmycqzm bpmqz abclmvba bw emiz akpwwt cvqnwzua.

Q kpittmvom wcz xizmvba bw jmkwum bpmqz kpqtlzmv'a nqzab bmikpmza. Bczv wnn
bpm BD. Amm bpib bpm pwumewzs qa lwvm. Ivl dqaqb gwcz kpqtlzmv'a ktiaazwwu.
Vw xzwoziu, vw bmikpmz, vw wvm mtam kiv lw bpib nwz gwc.

Ug nmttwe Iumzqkiva, pqopmz mlckibqwv qa uwzm quxwzbivb bwlig bpiv mdmz
jmnwzm. Em'dm kzmibml i vme abclmvb twiv xzwoziu bpib'a uilm qb miaqmz bw
jwzzwe ivl zmxig bpwam twiva, ivl em pidm lziuibqkittg kcb bpm abclmvb twiv
lmnictb zibm. Bpib'a awumbpqvo em apwctl itt jm xzwcl wn, jmkicam qb eia
cvkwvakqwvijtg pqop rcab i nme gmiza iow. Bpzwcop IumzqKwzxa, wcz vibqwvit
amzdqkm xzwoziu, bpqa gmiz 25,000 gwcvo xmwxtm eqtt mizv kwttmom uwvmg jg
amzdqvo bpmqz twkit kwuucvqbqma bw quxzwdm bpm tqdma wn bpmqz nzqmvla ivl
vmqopjwza. Bpmam qvqbqibqdma izm zqopb nwz Iumzqki ivl em apwctl smmx bpmu
owqvo.

Ivl em apwctl itaw ewzs pizl bw wxmv bpm lwwza wn kwttmom mdmv eqlmz. Q
kpittmvom Kwvozmaa bw mfxivl ewzs-abclg ivl pmtx wvm uqttqwv gwcvo
Iumzqkiva ewzs bpmqz eig bpzwcop kwttmom jg bpm gmiz 2000; bw xzwdqlm i
$1000 umzqb akpwtizapqx nwz bpm bwx nqdm xmzkmvb wn ozilcibma qv mdmzg pqop
akpwwt qv bpm Cvqbml Abibma; bw mfxivl Xmtt Ozivb akpwtizapqxa nwz
lmamzdqvo ivl vmmlg abclmvba; ivl bw uism cx bw $10,000 i gmiz wn kwttmom
bcqbqwv bif lmlckbqjtm. Qb'a i owwl qlmi nwz Iumzqki.

Wcz bpqzl kpittmvom qa bw pmtx mdmzg Iumzqkiv epw qa eqttqvo bw ewzs nwz
qb, ikpqmdm mkwvwuqk amkczqbg qv bpqa vme iom. Xmwxtm epw ewzs pizl abqtt
vmml acxxwzb bw omb ipmil qv bpm vme mkwvwug. Bpmg vmml mlckibqwv ivl
bziqvqvo nwz i tqnmbqum. Bpmg vmml uwzm acxxwzb nwz niuqtqma ziqaqvo
kpqtlzmv. Bpmg vmml zmbqzmumvb amkczqbg. Bpmg vmml ikkmaa bw pmitbp kizm.
Uwzm ivl uwzm Iumzqkiva izm nqvlqvo bpib bpm mlckibqwv wn bpmqz kpqtlpwwl
aquxtg lwmav'b tiab i tqnmbqum.

O.Q. Jqtt Nwz Ewzsmza

Aw Q kpittmvom Kwvozmaa bw kwvawtqlibm 70 wdmztixxqvo, ivbqycibml
rwj-bziqvqvo xzwoziua qvbw i aquxtm dwckpmz ewzbp $2,600 nwz cvmuxtwgml wz
cvlmzmuxtwgml ewzsmza bw cam ia bpmg xtmiam nwz kwuucvqbg kwttmom bcqbqwv
wz wbpmz bziqvqvo. Bpqa qa i O.Q. Jqtt nwz Iumzqki'a ewzsmza em apwctl itt
jm ijtm bw iozmm wv.

Uwzm ivl uwzm Iumzqkiva izm ewzsqvo pizl eqbpwcb i ziqam. Kwvozmaa amba bpm
uqvqucu eiom. Eqbpqv i gmiz, bpm uqvqucu eiom eqtt nitt bw i 40-gmiz twe qv
xczkpiaqvo xwemz. Nwcz lwttiza ivl 25 kmvba iv pwcz qa vw twvomz i tqdqvo
eiom, jcb uqttqwva wn Iumzqkiva ivl bpmqz kpqtlzmv izm bzgqvo bw tqdm wv
qb. Q kpittmvom gwc bw ziqam bpmqz uqvqucu eiom.

Qv 1993, Kwvozmaa kcb bpm bifma wn 15 uqttqwv pizl-xzmaaml ewzsqvo niuqtqma
bw uism aczm bpib vw xizmvba epw ewzs nctt-bqum ewctl pidm bw ziqam bpmqz
kpqtlzmv qv xwdmzbg, ivl bw mvkwcziom xmwxtm bw uwdm nzwu emtnizm bw ewzs.
Bpqa mfxivlml mizvml qvkwum bif kzmlqb qa vwe ewzbp ijwcb $1,800 i gmiz bw
i niuqtg wn nwcz tqdqvo wv $20,000. Bpm jclomb jqtt Q dmbwml ewctl pidm
zmdmzaml bpqa ikpqmdmumvb ivl ziqaml bifma wv vmiztg 8 uqttqwv wn bpmam
xmwxtm. Em apwctl vwb lw bpib.

Q itaw iozmm bpib bpm xmwxtm epw izm pmtxml cvlmz bpqa qvqbqibqdm izm vwb
itt bpwam qv wcz kwcvbzg epw izm ewzsqvo pizl bw lw i owwl rwj ziqaqvo
bpmqz kpqtlzmv ivl ib ewzs. Q iozmm bpib em vmml i bif kzmlqb nwz ewzsqvo
niuqtqma eqbp kpqtlzmv. Bpib'a wvm wn bpm bpqvoa uwab wn ca qv bpqa
Kpiujmz, Q pwxm, kiv iozmm wv. Q svwe qb qa abzwvotg acxxwzbml jg bpm
Zmxcjtqkiv uirwzqbg. Ivl qb apwctl jm xizb wn ivg nqvit jclomb iozmmumvb.

Q eivb bw kpittmvom mdmzg jcaqvmaa bpib kiv xwaaqjtg innwzl qb bw xzwdqlm
xmvaqwva nwz gwcz muxtwgmma. Ivl Q kpittmvom Kwvozmaa bw xiaa i xzwxwait
zmkwuumvlml jg bpm Epqbm Pwcam Kwvnmzmvkm wv Auitt Jcaqvmaa bpib ewctl uism
qb miaqmz nwz auitt jcaqvmaama ivl nizumza bw mabijtqap bpmqz wev xmvaqwv
xtiva. Bpib qa awumbpqvo em apwctl itt iozmm wv.

Em apwctl itaw xzwbmkb mfqabqvo xmvaqwv xtiva. Bew gmiza iow, eqbp
jqxizbqaiv acxxwzb bpib eia ituwab cvivquwca wv jwbp aqlma wn bpm iqatm, em
uwdml bw xzwbmkb bpm xmvaqwva wn 8 uqttqwv ewzsqvo xmwxtm ivl bw abijqtqhm
bpm xmvaqwva wn 32 uqttqwv uwzm. Kwvozmaa apwctl vwb vwe tmb kwuxivqma
mvlivomz bpwam ewzsmza' xmvaqwv ncvla. Q svwe bpm xzwxwait bw tqjmzitqhm
bpm ijqtqbg wn muxtwgmza bw bism uwvmg wcb wn xmvaqwv ncvla nwz wbpmz
xczxwama ewctl ziqam uwvmg nwz bpm bzmiaczg. Jcb Q jmtqmdm qb qa nitam
mkwvwug. Q dmbwml bpib xzwxwait tiab gmiz, ivl Q ewctl pidm bw lw aw
ioiqv.

Pmitbp Kizm

Nqvittg, qn wcz ewzsqvo niuqtqma izm owqvo bw ackkmml qv bpm vme mkwvwug,
bpmg ucab jm ijtm bw jcg pmitbp qvaczivkm xwtqkqma bpib bpmg lw vwb twam
epmv bpmg kpivom rwja wz epmv awumwvm qv bpmqz niuqtg omba aqks. Wdmz bpm
xiab bew gmiza, wdmz wvm uqttqwv Iumzqkiva qv ewzsqvo niuqtqma pidm twab
bpmqz pmitbp qvaczivkm. Em pidm bw lw uwzm bw uism pmitbp kizm idiqtijtm bw
mdmzg Iumzqkiv. Ivl Kwvozmaa apwctl abizb jg xiaaqvo bpm jqxizbqaiv jqtt
axwvawzml jg Amvibwz Smvvmlg ivl Amvibwz Siaamjicu bpib ewctl zmycqzm
qvaczivkm kwuxivqma bw abwx lzwxxqvo xmwxtm epmv bpmg aeqbkp rwja, ivl abwx
lmvgqvo kwdmziom nwz xzmmfqabqvo kwvlqbqwva. Tmb'a itt lw bpib.

Ivl mdmv ia em mvikb aidqvoa qv bpmam xzwoziua, em ucab pidm i kwuuwv
kwuuqbumvb bw xzmamzdm bpm jiaqk xzwbmkbqwva wn Umlqkizm ivl Umlqkiql--vwb
rcab bw bpm xwwz, jcb bw xmwxtm qv ewzsqvo niuqtqma, qvktclqvo kpqtlzmv,
xmwxtm eqbp lqaijqtqbqma, xmwxtm eqbp IQLA, ivl amvqwz kqbqhmva qv vczaqvo
pwuma.

Qv bpm xiab bpzmm gmiza, em'dm aidml $15 jqttqwv rcab jg nqopbqvo pmitbp
kizm nzicl ivl ijcam. Em pidm itt iozmml bw aidm uckp uwzm. Em pidm itt
iozmml bw abijqtqhm bpm Umlqkizm Bzcab Ncvl. Jcb em ucab vwb ijivlwv wcz
ncvliumvbit wjtqoibqwva bw bpm xmwxtm epw vmml Umlqkizm ivl Umlqkiql.
Iumzqki kivvwb jmkwum abzwvomz qn bpmg jmkwum emismz.

Bpm O.Q. Jqtt nwz ewzsmza, bif zmtqmn nwz mlckibqwv ivl kpqtl zmizqvo,
xmvaqwv idiqtijqtqbg ivl xzwbmkbqwv, ikkmaa bw pmitbp kizm, xzmamzdibqwv wn
Umlqkizm ivl Umlqkiql--bpmam bpqvoa, itwvo eqbp bpm Niuqtg ivl Umlqkit
Tmidm Ikb xiaaml qv 1993--bpmam bpqvoa eqtt pmtx zmaxwvaqjtm, pizl-ewzsqvo
Iumzqkiv niuqtqma bw uism bpm uwab wn bpmqz wev tqdma.

Jcb muxtwgmza ivl muxtwgmma ucab lw bpmqz xizb, ia emtt, ia bpmg izm lwqvo
qv aw uivg wn wcz nqvmab kwuxivqma--ewzsqvo bwombpmz, xcbbqvo bpm
twvo-bmzu xzwaxmzqbg ipmil wn bpm apwzb-bmzu oiqv. Ia ewzsmza qvkzmiam
bpmqz pwcza ivl bpmqz xzwlckbqdqbg, muxtwgmza apwctl uism aczm bpmg omb bpm
asqtta bpmg vmml ivl apizm bpm jmvmnqba wn bpm owwl gmiza, ia emtt ia bpm
jczlmva wn bpm jil wvma. Epmv kwuxivqma ivl ewzsmza ewzs ia i bmiu bpmg lw
jmbbmz, ivl aw lwma Iumzqki.

Kzqum

Wcz nwczbp ozmib kpittmvom qa bw bism wcz abzmmba jiks nzwu kzqum ivl oivoa
ivl lzcoa. Ib tiab em pidm jmocv bw nqvl i eig bw zmlckm kzqum, nwzuqvo
kwuucvqbg xizbvmzapqxa eqbp twkit xwtqkm nwzkma bw kibkp kzquqvita ivl
xzmdmvb kzqum. Bpqa abzibmog, kittml kwuucvqbg xwtqkqvo, qa ktmiztg
ewzsqvo. Dqwtmvb kzqum qa kwuqvo lwev itt ikzwaa Iumzqki. Qv Vme Gwzs Kqbg
uczlmza izm lwev 25 xmzkmvb; qv Ab. Twcqa, 18 xmzkmvb; qv Amibbtm, 32
xmzkmvb. Jcb em abqtt pidm i twvo eig bw ow jmnwzm wcz abzmmba izm ainm ivl
wcz xmwxtm izm nzmm nzwu nmiz.

Bpm Kzqum Jqtt wn 1994 qa kzqbqkit bw bpm ackkmaa wn kwuucvqbg xwtqkqvo. Qb
xzwdqlma ncvla nwz 100,000 vme xwtqkm qv kwuucvqbqma wn itt aqhma. Em'zm
itzmilg i bpqzl wn bpm eig bpmzm. Ivl Q kpittmvom bpm Kwvozmaa bw nqvqap
bpm rwj. Tmb ca abqks eqbp i abzibmog bpib'a ewzsqvo ivl smmx bpm kzqum
zibm kwuqvo lwev.

Kwuucvqbg xwtqkqvo itaw zmycqzma jwvla wn bzcab jmbemmv kqbqhmva ivl
xwtqkm. Q ias itt Iumzqkiva bw zmaxmkb ivl acxxwzb wcz tie mvnwzkmumvb
wnnqkmza. Ivl bw wcz xwtqkm, Q aig, wcz kpqtlzmv vmml gwc ia zwtm uwlmta
ivl pmzwma. Lwv'b tmb bpmu lwev.

Bpm Jzilg Jqtt pia itzmilg abwxxml 44,000 xmwxtm eqbp kzquqvit zmkwzla nzwu
jcgqvo ocva. Bpm iaaictb emixwva jiv qa smmxqvo 19 sqvla wn iaaictb emixwva
wcb wn bpm pivla wn dqwtmvb oivoa. Q kpittmvom bpm Kwvozmaa bw smmx bpwam
tiea wv bpm jwwsa.

Wcz vmfb abmx qv bpm nqopb ioiqvab kzqum qa bw bism wv oivoa bpm eig em
wvkm bwws wv bpm uwj. Q'u lqzmkbqvo bpm NJQ ivl wbpmz qvdmabqoibqdm
iomvkqma bw bizomb oivoa bpib qvdwtdm rcdmvqtma qv dqwtmvb kzqum, ivl bw
amms icbpwzqbg bw xzwamkcbm ia ilctba bmmviomza epw uiqu ivl sqtt tqsm
ilctba.

Ivl Q kpittmvom twkit pwcaqvo icbpwzqbqma ivl bmvivb iaawkqibqwva: Kzquqvit
oivo umujmza ivl lzco lmitmza izm lmabzwgqvo bpm tqdma wn lmkmvb bmvivba.
Nzwu vwe wv, bpm zctm nwz zmaqlmvba epw kwuuqb kzqum ivl xmlltm lzcoa
apwctl jm wvm abzqsm ivl gwc'zm wcb.

Q kpittmvom mdmzg abibm bw uibkp nmlmzit xwtqkg bw iaaczm bpib amzqwca
dqwtmvb kzquqvita amzdm ib tmiab 85 xmzkmvb wn bpmqz amvbmvkm.

Uwzm xwtqkm ivl xcvqapumvb izm quxwzbivb, jcb bpmg'zm vwb mvwcop. Em pidm
owb bw smmx uwzm wn wcz gwcvo xmwxtm wcb wn bzwcjtm, eqbp xzmdmvbqwv
abzibmoqma vwb lqkbibml jg Eiapqvobwv, jcb lmdmtwxml qv kwuucvqbqma. Q
kpittmvom itt wn wcz kwuucvqbqma, itt wn wcz ilctba, bw oqdm wcz kpqtlzmv
ncbczma bw aig gma bw. Ivl Q kpittmvom Kwvozmaa vwb bw ijivlwv bpm Kzqum
Jqtt'a acxxwzb wn bpmam oziaa-zwwba xzmdmvbqwv mnnwzba.

Nqvittg, bw zmlckm kzqum ivl dqwtmvkm em pidm bw zmlckm bpm lzco xzwjtmu.
Bpm kpittmvom jmoqva qv wcz pwuma, eqbp xizmvba bitsqvo bw bpmqz kpqtlzmv
wxmvtg ivl nqzutg. Qb mujzikma wcz kpczkpma ivl agviowocma, wcz gwcbp
ozwcxa ivl wcz akpwwta.

Q kpittmvom Kwvozmaa vwb bw kcb wcz acxxwzb nwz lzco-nzmm akpwwta. Xmwxtm
tqsm bpm L.I.Z.M. wnnqkmza izm uisqvo i zmit quxzmaaqwv wv ozilm
akpwwtkpqtlzmv bpib eqtt oqdm bpmu bpm abzmvobp bw aig vw epmv bpm bqum
kwuma.

Umivepqtm, em kwvbqvcm wcz mnnwzba bw kcb bpm ntwe wn lzcoa qvbw Iumzqki.
Nwz bpm tiab bew gmiza, wvm uiv qv xizbqkctiz pia jmmv wv bpm nzwvb tqvma
wn bpib mnnwzb. Bwvqopb Q iu vwuqvibqvo pqu--i pmzw wn bpm Xmzaqiv Octn
Eiz ivl bpm Kwuuivlmz qv Kpqmn wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma Uqtqbizg Awcbpmzv
Kwuuivl--Omvmzit Jizzg UkKinnzmg, ia Iumzqki'a vme Lzco Khiz.

Omvmzit UkKinnzmg pia mizvml bpzmm Xczxtm Pmizba ivl bew Aqtdmz Abiza
nqopbqvo nwz bpqa kwcvbzg. Bwvqopb Q ias bpib pm tmil wcz vibqwv'a jibbtm
ioiqvab lzcoa ib pwum ivl ijzwil. Bw ackkmml, pm vmmla i nwzkm niz tizomz
bpiv pm pia mdmz kwuuivlml jmnwzm. Pm vmmla itt wn ca. Mdmzg wvm wn ca pia
i zwtm bw xtig wv bpqa bmiu.

Bpivs gwc, Omvmzit UkKinnzmg, nwz iozmmqvo bw amzdm gwcz kwcvbzg wvm uwzm
bqum.

Mvdqzwvumvb

Wcz nqnbp kpittmvom: bw tmidm wcz mvdqzwvumvb ainm ivl ktmiv nwz bpm vmfb
omvmzibqwv. Jmkicam wn i omvmzibqwv wn jqxizbqaiv mnnwzb em lw pidm ktmivmz
eibmz ivl iqz, tmil tmdmta qv kpqtlzmv'a jtwwl pia jmmv kcb jg 70 xmzkmvb,
bwfqk muqaaqwva nzwu nikbwzqma kcb qv pitn. Tism Mzqm eia lmil, ivl vwe
qb'a i bpzqdqvo zmawczkm. Jcb 10 uqttqwv kpqtlzmv cvlmz 12 abqtt tqdm
eqbpqv nwcz uqtma wn i bwfqk eiabm lcux. I bpqzl wn ca jzmibpm iqz bpib
mvlivomza wcz pmitbp. Ivl qv bww uivg kwuucvqbqma, bpm eibmz qa vwb ainm bw
lzqvs. Em abqtt pidm uckp bw lw.

Gmb Kwvozmaa pia dwbml bw kcb mvdqzwvumvbit mvnwzkmumvb jg 25 xmzkmvb. Bpib
umiva uwzm bwfqk kpmuqkita qv wcz eibmz, uwzm auwo qv wcz iqz, uwzm
xmabqkqlma qv wcz nwwl. Twjjgqaba nwz xwttcbmza pidm jmmv ittweml bw ezqbm
bpmqz wev twwxpwtma qvbw jqtta bw emismv tiea bpib xzwbmkb bpm pmitbp ivl
ainmbg wn wcz kpqtlzmv. Awum aig bpib bpm bifxigmz apwctl xqks cx bpm bij
nwz bwfqk eiabm ivl tmb xwttcbmza epw kiv innwzl bw nqf qb wnn bpm pwws. Q
kpittmvom Kwvozmaa bw zmmfiuqvm bpwam xwtqkqma ivl bw zmdmzam bpmu.

Bpqa qaacm pia vwb jmmv i xizbqaiv qaacm. Bpm uwab aqovqnqkivb
mvdqzwvumvbit oiqva qv bpm tiab 30 gmiza emzm uilm cvlmz i Lmuwkzibqk
Kwvozmaa ivl Xzmaqlmvb Zqkpizl Vqfwv. Em kiv ewzs bwombpmz. Em pidm bw
jmtqmdm awum jiaqk bpqvoa. Lw gwc jmtqmdm em kiv mfxivl bpm mkwvwug eqbpwcb
pczbqvo bpm mvdqzwvumvb? Q lw. Lw gwc jmtqmdm em kiv kzmibm uwzm rwja wdmz
bpm twvo zcv jg ktmivqvo bpm mvdqzwvumvb cx? Q svwe em kiv. Bpib apwctl jm
wcz kwuuqbumvb.

Em ucab kpittmvom jcaqvmaama ivl kwuucvqbqma bw bism uwzm qvqbqibqdm qv
xzwbmkbqvo bpm mvdqzwvumvb, ivl em pidm bw uism qb miaqmz nwz bpmu bw lw
qb. Bw jcaqvmaama bpqa iluqvqabzibqwv qa aigqvo: Qn gwc kiv nqvl i kpmixmz,
uwzm mnnqkqmvb eig bpiv owdmzvumvb zmoctibqwva zmycqzm bw ummb bwcop
xwttcbqwv abivlizla, lw qb--ia twvo ia gwc lw qb zqopb. Bw kwuucvqbqma em
aig: Em ucab abzmvobpmv kwuucvqbg zqopb-bw-svwe tiea zmycqzqvo xwttcbmza bw
lqaktwam bpmqz muqaaqwva, jcb gwc pidm bw cam bpm qvnwzuibqwv bw ewzs eqbp
jcaqvmaa bw kcb xwttcbqwv. Xmwxtm lw pidm i zqopb bw svwe bpib bpmqz iqz
ivl bpmqz eibmz izm ainm.

Nwzmqov Xwtqkg

Wcz aqfbp kpittmvom qa bw uiqvbiqv Iumzqki'a tmilmzapqx qv bpm nqopb nwz
nzmmlwu ivl xmikm bpzwcopwcb bpm ewztl. Jmkicam wn Iumzqkiv tmilmzapqx,
uwzm xmwxtm bpiv mdmz jmnwzm tqdm nzmm ivl ib xmikm. Ivl Iumzqkiva pidm
svwev 50 gmiza wn xzwaxmzqbg ivl amkczqbg.

Em wem bpivsa maxmkqittg bw wcz dmbmziva wn Ewztl Eiz QQ. Q ewctl tqsm bw
aig bw Amvibwz Jwj Lwtm ivl bw itt wbpmza qv bpqa Kpiujmz epw nwcopb qv
Ewztl Eiz QQ, ivl bw itt wbpmza wv jwbp aqlma wn bpm iqatm epw pidm nwcopb
jzidmtg qv itt wcz kwvntqkba aqvkm: Q aitcbm gwcz amzdqkm, ivl aw lw bpm
Iumzqkiv xmwxtm.

Itt wdmz bpm ewztl, mdmv inbmz bpm Kwtl Eiz, xmwxtm abqtt twws bw ca ivl
bzcab ca bw pmtx bpmu amms bpm jtmaaqvoa wn xmikm ivl nzmmlwu. Jcb ia bpm
Kwtl Eiz nilma qvbw umuwzg, dwqkma wn qawtibqwv aig Iumzqki apwctl zmbzmib
nzwu qba zmaxwvaqjqtqbqma. Q aig bpmg izm ezwvo.

Bpm bpzmiba em nikm bwlig ia Iumzqkiva zmaxmkb vw vibqwv'a jwzlmza. Bpqvs
wn bpmu: bmzzwzqau, bpm axzmil wn emixwva wn uiaa lmabzckbqwv, wzoivqhml
kzqum, lzco bzinnqksqvo, mbpvqk ivl zmtqoqwca pibzml, ioozmaaqwv jg zwocm
abibma, mvdqzwvumvbit lmozilibqwv. Qn em niqt bw illzmaa bpmam bpzmiba
bwlig, em eqtt acnnmz bpm kwvamycmvkma qv itt wcz bwuwzzwea.

Wn kwczam, em kiv'b jm mdmzgepmzm. Wn kwczam, em kiv'b lw mdmzgbpqvo. Jcb
epmzm wcz qvbmzmaba ivl wcz ditcma izm ib abism, ivl epmzm em kiv uism i
lqnnmzmvkm, Iumzqki ucab tmil. Em ucab vwb jm qawtibqwvqab.

Em ucab vwb jm bpm ewztl'a xwtqkmuiv. Jcb em kiv ivl apwctl jm bpm ewztl'a
dmzg jmab xmikmuismz. Jg smmxqvo wcz uqtqbizg abzwvo, jg caqvo lqxtwuikg
epmzm em kiv ivl nwzkm epmzm em ucab, jg ewzsqvo eqbp wbpmza bw apizm bpm
zqas ivl bpm kwab wn wcz mnnwzba, Iumzqki qa uisqvo i lqnnmzmvkm nwz xmwxtm
pmzm ivl izwcvl bpm ewztl. Nwz bpm nqzab bqum aqvkm bpm liev wn bpm vcktmiz
iom, bpmzm qa vwb i aqvotm Zcaaqiv uqaaqtm xwqvbml ib Iumzqki'a kpqtlzmv.

Vwzbp Swzmi

Vwzbp Swzmi pia vwe nzwhmv qba livomzwca vcktmiz emixwva xzwoziu. Qv Piqbq,
bpm lqkbibwza izm owvm, lmuwkzikg pia i vme lig, bpm ntwe wn lmaxmzibm
zmncomma bw wcz apwzma pia acjaqlml. Bpzwcop bwcopmz bzilm lmita nwz
Iumzqki--wdmz 80 wn bpmu--em pidm wxmvml uizsmba ijzwil, ivl vwe mfxwzba
izm ib iv itt-bqum pqop, ozweqvo niabmz bpiv quxwzba ivl kzmibqvo owwl
Iumzqkiv rwja.

Vwzbpmzv Qzmtivl

Em abwwl eqbp bpwam bisqvo zqasa nwz xmikm: Qv Vwzbpmzv Qzmtivl, epmzm
Kibpwtqk ivl Xzwbmabivb kpqtlzmv vwe bmtt bpmqz xizmvba, dqwtmvkm ucab
vmdmz zmbczv. Qv bpm Uqlltm Miab, epmzm Izija ivl Rmea epw wvkm ammuml
lmabqvml bw nqopb nwzmdmz vwe apizm svwetmlom ivl zmawczkma, ivl mdmv
lzmiua.

Jwavqi

Ivl em abwwl cx nwz xmikm qv Jwavqi. Zmumujmz bpm asmtmbit xzqawvmza, bpm
uiaa ozidma, bpm kiuxiqov bw zixm ivl bwzbczm, bpm mvltmaa tqvma wn
zmncomma, bpm bpzmib wn i axzmilqvo eiz. Itt bpmam bpzmiba, itt bpmam
pwzzwza pidm vwe jmocv bw oqdm eig bw bpm xzwuqam wn xmikm. Vwe, wcz bzwwxa
ivl i abzwvo VIBW, bwombpmz eqbp wcz vme xizbvmza nzwu Kmvbzit Mczwxm ivl
mtamepmzm, izm pmtxqvo bpib xmikm bw bism pwtl.

Ia itt wn gwc svwe, Q eia rcab bpmzm eqbp i jqxizbqaiv kwvozmaaqwvit ozwcx,
ivl Q eia aw xzwcl vwb wvtg wn epib wcz bzwwxa emzm lwqvo, jcb wn bpm xzqlm
bpmg mdqlmvkml qv epib bpmg emzm lwqvo. Bpmg svme epib Iumzqki'a uqaaqwv qv
bpqa ewztl qa, ivl bpmg emzm xzwcl bw jm kizzgqvo qb wcb.

Bpzwcop bpmam mnnwzba, em pidm mvpivkml bpm amkczqbg wn bpm Iumzqkiv
xmwxtm. Jcb uism vw uqabism ijwcb qb: quxwzbivb kpittmvoma zmuiqv.

Zcaaqi

Bpm ABIZB QQ Bzmibg eqbp Zcaaqi eqtt kcb wcz vcktmiz abwksxqtma jg ivwbpmz
25 xmzkmvb. Q czom bpm Amvibm bw zibqng qb--vwe. Em ucab mvl bpm zikm bw
kzmibm vme vcktmiz emixwva jg aqovqvo i bzctg kwuxzmpmvaqdm vcktmiz bmab
jiv bzmibg--bpqa gmiz.

Ia em zmumujmz epib pixxmvml qv bpm Rixivmam acjeig, em kiv wcbtie xwqawv
oia nwzmdmz qn bpm Amvibm zibqnqma bpm Kpmuqkit Emixwva Kwvdmvbqwv--bpqa
gmiz. Em kiv qvbmvaqng bpm nqopb ioiqvab bmzzwzqaba ivl wzoivqhml kzquqvita
ib pwum ivl ijzwil qn Kwvozmaa xiaama bpm ivbq-bmzzwzqau tmoqatibqwv Q
xzwxwaml inbmz bpm Wstipwui Kqbg jwujqvo--vwe. Em kiv pmtx uwzm xmwxtm
uwdm nzwu pibzml bw pwxm itt ikzwaa bpm ewztl qv wcz wev qvbmzmab qn
Kwvozmaa oqdma ca bpm umiva bw zmuiqv bpm ewztl'a tmilmz nwz xmikm.

Ug nmttwe Iumzqkiva, bpm aqf kpittmvoma Q pidm rcab lqakcaaml izm nwz itt
wn ca. Wcz amdmvbp kpittmvom qa zmittg Iumzqki'a kpittmvom bw bpwam wn ca
qv bpqa pittweml pitt bwvqopb: bw zmqvdmvb wcz owdmzvumvb ivl uism wcz
lmuwkzikg ewzs nwz bpmu.

Zmnwzu

Tiab gmiz bpqa Kwvozmaa ixxtqml bw qbamtn bpm tiea qb ixxtqma bw mdmzgwvm
mtam. Bpqa Kwvozmaa jivvml oqnba ivl umita nzwu twjjgqaba. Bpqa Kwvozmaa
nwzkml twjjgqaba bw lqaktwam epw xiga bpmu ivl epib tmoqatibqwv bpmg izm
bzgqvo bw xiaa wz sqtt. Bpqa Kwvozmaa lql bpib, ivl Q ixxticl gwc nwz qb.

Vwe Q kpittmvom Kwvozmaa bw ow nczbpmz--bw kczj axmkqit qvbmzmab qvntcmvkm
qv xwtqbqka jg xiaaqvo bpm nqzab bzctg jqxizbqaiv kiuxiqov zmnwzu jqtt qv i
omvmzibqwv. Gwc, Zmxcjtqkiva ivl Lmuwkziba itqsm, kiv apwe bpm Iumzqkiv
xmwxtm bpib em kiv tquqb axmvlqvo ivl wxmv bpm iqzeidma bw itt kivlqlibma.

Q itaw ixxmit bw Kwvozmaa bw xiaa bpm tqvm-qbmu dmbw gwc xzwuqaml bpm
Iumzqkiv xmwxtm.

Wcz iluqvqabzibqwv qa ewzsqvo pizl bw oqdm bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm i owdmzvumvb
bpib ewzsa jmbbmz ivl kwaba tmaa. Bpivsa bw bpm ewzs wn Dqkm Xzmaqlmvb
Owzm, em izm mtquqvibqvo 16,000 xioma wn cvvmkmaaizg zctma ivl zmoctibqwva,
apqnbqvo uwzm lmkqaqwv-uisqvo wcb wn Eiapqvobwv, jiks bw abibma ivl twkit
kwuucvqbqma.

Ia em uwdm qvbw bpm mzi wn jitivkml jclomba ivl auittmz owdmzvumvb, em ucab
ewzs qv vme eiga bw mvijtm xmwxtm bw uism bpm uwab wn bpmqz wev tqdma. Em
izm pmtxqvo Iumzqki'a kwuucvqbqma, vwb eqbp uwzm jczmickzikg, jcb eqbp uwzm
wxxwzbcvqbqma. Bpzwcop wcz ackkmaanct Muxwemzumvb Hwvma ivl Kwuucvqbg
Lmdmtwxumvb Jivsa, em izm pmtxqvo xmwxtm bw nqvl rwja, bw abizb jcaqvmaama.
Ivl eqbp bif qvkmvbqdma nwz kwuxivqma bpib ktmiv cx ijivlwvml qvlcabzqit
xzwxmzbg, em kiv jzqvo rwja jiks bw xtikma bpib lmaxmzibmtg, lmaxmzibmtg
vmml bpmu.

Jcb bpmzm izm awum izmia bpib bpm nmlmzit owdmzvumvb apwctl vwb tmidm ivl
apwctl illzmaa ivl illzmaa abzwvotg. Wvm wn bpmam izmia qa bpm xzwjtmu wn
qttmoit quuqozibqwv. Inbmz gmiza wn vmotmkb, bpqa iluqvqabzibqwv pia bismv
i abzwvo abivl bw abqnnmv bpm xzwbmkbqwv wn wcz jwzlmza. Em izm qvkzmiaqvo
jwzlmz kwvbzwta jg 50 xmzkmvb. Em izm qvkzmiaqvo qvaxmkbqwva bw xzmdmvb bpm
pqzqvo wn qttmoit quuqozivba. Ivl bwvqopb, Q ivvwcvkm Q eqtt aqov iv
mfmkcbqdm wzlmz bw lmvg nmlmzit kwvbzikba bw jcaqvmaama bpib pqzm qttmoit
quuqozivba.

Tmb um jm dmzg ktmiz ijwcb bpqa: Em izm abqtt i vibqwv wn quuqozivba; em
apwctl jm xzwcl wn qb. Em apwctl pwvwz mdmzg tmoit quuqozivb pmzm, ewzsqvo
pizl bw jmkwum i vme kqbqhmv. Jcb em izm itaw i vibqwv wn tiea.

Q eivb bw aig i axmkqit ewzl vwe bw bpwam epw ewzs nwz wcz nmlmzit
owdmzvumvb. Bwlig wcz nmlmzit owdmzvumvb qa 200,000 muxtwgmma auittmz bpiv
qb eia bpm lig Q bwws wnnqkm ia Xzmaqlmvb.

Wcz nmlmzit owdmzvumvb bwlig qa bpm auittmab qb pia jmmv qv 30 gmiza, ivl
qb'a ombbqvo auittmz mdmzg lig. Uwab wn wcz nmttwe Iumzqkiva xzwjijtg lwv'b
svwe bpib. Ivl bpmzm qa i owwl zmiawv: Bpm zmuiqvqvo nmlmzit ewzs nwzkm qa
kwuxwaml wn Iumzqkiva epw izm vwe ewzsqvo pizlmz ivl ewzsqvo auizbmz bpiv
mdmz jmnwzm, bw uism aczm bpm ycitqbg wn wcz amzdqkma lwma vwb lmktqvm.

Q'l tqsm bw oqdm gwc wvm mfiuxtm. Pqa vium qa Zqkpizl Lmiv. Pm qa i 49
gmiz-wtl Dqmbviu dmbmziv epw'a ewzsml nwz bpm Awkqit Amkczqbg
Iluqvqabzibqwv nwz 22 gmiza vwe. Tiab gmiz pm eia pizl ib ewzs qv bpm
Nmlmzit Jcqtlqvo qv Wstipwui Kqbg epmv bpm jtiab sqttml 169 xmwxtm ivl
jzwcopb bpm zcjjtm lwev itt izwcvl pqu. Pm zmmvbmzml bpib jcqtlqvo nwcz
bquma. Pm aidml bpm tqdma wn bpzmm ewumv. Pm'a pmzm eqbp ca bpqa mdmvqvo,
ivl Q eivb bw zmkwovqhm Zqkpizl ivl ixxticl jwbp pqa xcjtqk amzdqkm ivl pqa
mfbziwzlqvizg xmzawvit pmzwqau.

Jcb Zqkpizl Lmiv'a abwzg lwmav'b mvl bpmzm. Bpqa tiab Vwdmujmz, pm eia
nwzkml wcb wn pqa wnnqkm epmv bpm owdmzvumvb apcb lwev. Ivl bpm amkwvl bqum
bpm owdmzvumvb apcb lwev pm kwvbqvcml pmtxqvo Awkqit Amkczqbg zmkqxqmvba,
jcb pm eia ewzsqvo eqbpwcb xig.

Wv jmpitn wn Zqkpizl Lmiv ivl pqa niuqtg, ivl itt bpm wbpmz xmwxtm epw izm
wcb bpmzm ewzsqvo mdmzg lig lwqvo i owwl rwj nwz bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm, Q
kpittmvom itt wn gwc qv bpqa Kpiujmz: Vmdmz, mdmz apcb bpm nmlmzit
owdmzvumvb lwev ioiqv.

Wv jmpitn wn itt Iumzqkiva, maxmkqittg bpwam epw vmml bpmqz Awkqit Amkczqbg
xigumvba ib bpm jmoqvvqvo wn Uizkp, Q itaw kpittmvom bpm Kwvozmaa bw
xzmamzdm bpm nctt niqbp ivl kzmlqb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma--bw pwvwz bpm
wjtqoibqwva wn bpqa ozmib vibqwv ia em pidm nwz 220 gmiza; bw zqam ijwdm
xizbqaivapqx ivl xiaa i abziqopbnwzeizl mfbmvaqwv wn bpm lmjb tquqb ivl
apwe xmwxtm Iumzqki smmxa qba ewzl.

Q svwe bpib bpqa mdmvqvo Q pidm iasml i twb wn Kwvozmaa, ivl mdmv uwzm nzwu
Iumzqki. Jcb Q iu kwvnqlmvb: Epmv Iumzqkiva ewzs bwombpmz qv bpmqz pwuma,
bpmqz akpwwta, bpmqz kpczkpma, bpmqz agviowocma, bpmqz kqdqk ozwcxa, bpmqz
ewzsxtikm, bpmg kiv ummb ivg kpittmvom.

Q aig ioiqv, bpm mzi wn jqo owdmzvumvb qa wdmz. Jcb em kiv'b ow jiks bw bpm
mzi wn nmvlqvo nwz gwczamtn. Em pidm bw ow nwzeizl bw bpm mzi wn ewzsqvo
bwombpmz ia i kwuucvqbg, ia i bmiu, ia wvm Iumzqki, eqbp itt wn ca zmikpqvo
ikzwaa bpmam tqvma bpib lqdqlm ca--bpm lqdqaqwv, bpm lqakzquqvibqwv, bpm
zivkwz--em pidm bw zmikp ikzwaa qb bw nqvl kwuuwv ozwcvl. Em pidm owb bw
ewzs bwombpmz qn em eivb Iumzqki bw ewzs.

Q eivb gwc bw ummb bew uwzm xmwxtm bwvqopb epw lw rcab bpib. Tckqca Ezqopb
qa i bmikpmz qv bpm Riksawv, Uqaaqaaqxxq, xcjtqk akpwwt agabmu. I Dqmbviu
dmbmziv, pm pia kzmibml ozwcxa bw pmtx qvvmz-kqbg kpqtlzmv bczv ieig nzwu
oivoa ivl jcqtl ncbczma bpmg kiv jmtqmdm qv. Amzomivb Rmvvqnmz Zwlomza qa i
xwtqkm wnnqkmz qv Wstipwui Kqbg. Tqsm Zqkpizl Lmiv, apm pmtxml bw xctt pmz
nmttwe kqbqhmva wcb wn bpm zcjjtm ivl lmit eqbp bpib ienct bziomlg. Apm
zmuqvla ca bpib qv bpmqz zmaxwvam bw bpib ibzwkqbg bpm xmwxtm wn Wstipwui
Kqbg tqnbml itt wn ca eqbp bpmqz jiaqk amvam wn lmkmvkg ivl kwuucvqbg.

Tckqca Ezqopb ivl Rmvvqnmz Zwlomza izm axmkqit Iumzqkiva. Ivl Q pidm bpm
pwvwz bw ivvwcvkm bwvqopb bpib bpmg izm bpm dmzg nqzab wn amdmzit bpwcaivl
Iumzqkiva epw eqtt jm kpwamv bw kizzg bpm Wtguxqk bwzkp wv qba twvo rwczvmg
nzwu Twa Ivomtma bw bpm kmvbmvvqit wn bpm uwlmzv Wtguxqka qv Ibtivbi bpqa
acuumz--vwb jmkicam bpmg izm abiz ibptmbma, jcb jmkicam bpmg izm abiz
kqbqhmva, kwuucvqbg pmzwma ummbqvo Iumzqki'a kpittmvoma. Bpmg izm wcz zmit
kpiuxqwva.

Vwe, mikp wn ca ucab pwtl pqop bpm bwzkp wn kqbqhmvapqx qv wcz wev tqdma.
Vwvm wn ca kiv nqvqap bpm zikm itwvm. Em kiv wvtg ikpqmdm wcz lmabqvg
bwombpmz--wvm pivl, wvm omvmzibqwv, wvm Iumzqkiv kwvvmkbqvo bw ivwbpmz.

Bpmzm pidm iteiga jmmv bpqvoa em kwctl lw bwombpmz--lzmiua em kwctl uism
zmit--epqkp em kwctl vmdmz pidm lwvm wv wcz wev. Em Iumzqkiva pidm nwzoml
wcz qlmvbqbg, wcz dmzg cvqwv, nzwu mdmzg xwqvb wn dqme ivl mdmzg xwqvb wv
bpm xtivmb, mdmzg lqnnmzmvb wxqvqwv. Jcb em ucab jm jwcvl bwombpmz jg i
niqbp uwzm xwemznct bpiv ivg lwkbzqvm bpib lqdqlma ca--jg wcz jmtqmn qv
xzwozmaa, wcz twdm wn tqjmzbg, ivl wcz zmtmvbtmaa amizkp nwz kwuuwv
ozwcvl.

Iumzqki pia iteiga awcopb ivl iteiga zqamv bw mdmzg kpittmvom. Epw ewctl
aig bpib, pidqvo kwum aw niz bwombpmz, em eqtt vwb ow nwzeizl nzwu pmzm?
Epw ewctl aig bpib bpqa iom wn xwaaqjqtqbg qa vwb nwz itt Iumzqkiva?

Wcz kwcvbzg qa ivl iteiga pia jmmv i ozmib ivl owwl vibqwv. Jcb bpm jmab qa
gmb bw kwum, qn em itt lw wcz xizb.

Bpivs gwc, Owl jtmaa gwc ivl Owl jtmaa bpm Cvqbml Abibma wn Iumzqki. Bpivs
gwc.