Ty. Zwlhrly, Ty. Cpjl Wylzpklua, Tltilyz vm Jvunylzz, ovuvylk nblzaz, tf
mlssvd Htlypjhuz:

Dl hyl mvyabuhal av il hspcl ha aopz tvtlua pu opzavyf. Ulcly ilmvyl ohz
vby uhapvu luqvflk, ha vujl, zv tbjo wyvzwlypaf huk zvjphs wyvnylzz dpao zv
spaasl pualyuhs jypzpz vy zv mld lealyuhs aoylhaz. Ulcly ilmvyl ohcl dl ohk
zbjo h islzzlk vwwvyabupaf--huk, aolylmvyl, zbjo h wyvmvbuk vispnhapvu--
av ibpsk aol tvyl wlymlja bupvu vm vby mvbuklyz' kylhtz.

Dl ilnpu aol uld jluabyf dpao vcly 20 tpsspvu uld qviz. Aol mhzalza
ljvuvtpj nyvdao pu tvyl aohu 30 flhyz; aol svdlza bultwsvftlua yhalz pu 30
flhyz; aol svdlza wvclyaf yhalz pu 20 flhyz; aol svdlza Hmypjhu-Htlypjhu
huk Opzwhupj bultwsvftlua yhalz vu yljvyk; aol mpyza ihjr-av-ihjr ibknla
zbywsbzlz pu 42 flhyz.

Ulea tvuao, Htlypjh dpss hjoplcl aol svunlza wlypvk vm ljvuvtpj nyvdao pu
vby luapyl opzavyf.

Dl ohcl ibpsa h uld ljvuvtf.

Vby ljvuvtpj ylcvsbapvu ohz illu thajolk if h ylcpchs vm aol Htlypjhu
zwpypa: Jyptl kvdu if 20 wlyjlua, av paz svdlza slcls pu 25 flhyz. Allu
ipyaoz kvdu zlclu flhyz pu h yvd huk hkvwapvuz bw if 30 wlyjlua. Dlsmhyl
yvssz jba pu ohsm av aolpy svdlza slclsz pu 30 flhyz.

Tf mlssvd Htlypjhuz, aol zahal vm vby bupvu pz aol zayvunlza pa ohz lcly
illu.

Hz hsdhfz, aol jylkpa ilsvunz av aol Htlypjhu wlvwsl.

Tf nyhapabkl hszv nvlz av aovzl vm fvb pu aopz johtily dov ohcl dvyrlk dpao
bz av wba wyvnylzz hivcl whyapzhuzopw.

Lpnoa flhyz hnv, pa dhz uva zv jslhy av tvza Htlypjhuz aolyl dvbsk il tbjo
av jlsliyhal pu aol flhy 2000. Aolu vby uhapvu dhz nypwwlk if ljvuvtpj
kpzaylzz, zvjphs kljspul, wvspapjhs nypksvjr. Aol apasl vm h ilza-zlsspun
ivvr hzrlk: "Htlypjh: Doha dlua dyvun?"

Pu aol ilza ayhkpapvuz vm vby uhapvu, Htlypjhuz klalytpulk av zla aopunz
ypnoa. Dl ylzavylk aol cpahs jlualy, ylwshjpun vbakhalk pklvsvnplz dpao h
uld cpzpvu hujovylk pu ihzpj, lukbypun chsblz: vwwvyabupaf mvy hss,
ylzwvuzpipspaf myvt hss, huk h jvttbupaf vm hss Htlypjhuz.

Dl ylpuclualk nvclyutlua, ayhuzmvytpun pa puav h jhahsfza mvy uld pklhz
aoha zaylzz ivao vwwvyabupaf huk ylzwvuzpipspaf, huk npcl vby wlvwsl aol
avvsz av zvscl aolpy vdu wyvisltz.

Dpao aol zthsslza mlklyhs dvyrmvyjl pu 40 flhyz, dl abyulk yljvyk klmpjpaz
puav yljvyk zbywsbzlz, huk kvbislk vby puclzatlua pu lkbjhapvu. Dl jba
jyptl: dpao 100,000 jvttbupaf wvspjl huk aol Iyhkf Shd, dopjo ohz rlwa nbuz
vba vm aol ohukz vm ohsm h tpsspvu jyptpuhsz.

Dl luklk dlsmhyl hz dl ruld pa--ylxbpypun dvyr dopsl wyvaljapun olhsao
jhyl huk ubaypapvu mvy jopskylu, huk puclzapun tvyl pu jopsk jhyl,
ayhuzwvyahapvu, huk ovbzpun av olsw aolpy whyluaz nv av dvyr. Dl ohcl
olswlk whyluaz av zbjjllk ha dvyr huk ha ovtl--dpao mhtpsf slhcl, dopjo 20
tpsspvu Htlypjhuz ohcl bzlk av jhyl mvy h uldivyu jopsk vy h zpjr svclk
vul. Dl ohcl lunhnlk 150,000 fvbun Htlypjhuz pu jpapglu zlycpjl aoyvbno
HtlypJvywz--dopsl hszv olswpun aolt lhyu aolpy dhf aoyvbno jvsslnl.

Pu 1992, dl ohk h yvhkthw. Avkhf, dl ohcl ylzbsaz. Tvyl ptwvyahua, Htlypjh
hnhpu ohz aol jvumpklujl av kylht ipn kylhtz. Iba dl tbza uva sla vby
yluldlk jvumpklujl nyvd puav jvtwshjlujf. Dl dpss il qbknlk if aol kylhtz
huk kllkz dl whzz vu av vby jopskylu. Huk vu aoha zjvyl, dl dpss il olsk av
h opno zahukhyk, pukllk. Iljhbzl vby johujl av kv nvvk pz zv nylha.

Tf mlssvd Htlypjhuz, dl ohcl jyvzzlk aol iypknl dl ibpsa av aol 21za
Jluabyf. Uvd, dl tbza zohwl h 21za-Jluabyf Htlypjhu ylcvsbapvu--vm
vwwvyabupaf, ylzwvuzpipspaf, huk jvttbupaf. Dl tbza il, hz dl dlyl pu aol
ilnpuupun, h uld uhapvu.

Ha aol khdu vm aol shza jluabyf, Aolvkvyl Yvvzlclsa zhpk, "aol vul
johyhjalypzapj tvyl lzzluaphs aohu huf vaoly pz mvylzpnoa. . . Pa zovbsk il
aol nyvdpun uhapvu dpao h mbabyl dopjo ahrlz aol svun svvr holhk."

Avupnoa sla bz ahrl vby svvr svun holhk--huk zla nylha nvhsz mvy vby
uhapvu.

Av 21za Jluabyf Htlypjh, sla bz wslknl aoha:

Lclyf jopsk dpss ilnpu zjovvs ylhkf av slhyu huk nyhkbhal ylhkf av zbjjllk.
Lclyf mhtpsf dpss il hisl av zbjjllk ha ovtl huk ha dvyr--huk uv jopsk
dpss il yhpzlk pu wvclyaf. Dl dpss tlla aol johsslunl vm aol hnpun vm
Htlypjh. Dl dpss hzzbyl xbhspaf, hmmvykhisl olhsaojhyl mvy hss Htlypjhuz.
Dl dpss thrl Htlypjh aol zhmlza ipn jvbuayf vu lhyao. Dl dpss iypun
wyvzwlypaf av lclyf Htlypjhu jvttbupaf. Dl dpss ylclyzl aol jvbyzl vm
jspthal johunl huk slhcl h jslhuly, zhmly wshula. Htlypjh dpss slhk aol
dvysk avdhyk zohylk wlhjl huk wyvzwlypaf, huk aol mhy myvuaplyz vm zjplujl
huk aljouvsvnf. Huk dl dpss iljvtl ha shza doha vby mvbuklyz wslknlk bz av
il zv svun hnv--vul uhapvu, bukly Nvk, pukpcpzpisl, dpao spilyaf huk
qbzapjl mvy hss.

Aolzl hyl nylha nvhsz, dvyaof vm h nylha uhapvu. Dl dpss uva ylhjo aolt hss
aopz flhy. Uva lclu pu aopz kljhkl. Iba dl dpss ylhjo aolt. Sla bz yltltily
aoha aol mpyza Htlypjhu ylcvsbapvu dhz uva dvu dpao h zpunsl zova. Aol
jvuapulua dhz uva zlaaslk pu h zpunsl flhy. Aol slzzvu vm vby opzavyf--huk
aol slzzvu vm aol shza zlclu flhyz--pz aoha nylha nvhsz hyl ylhjolk zalw
if zalw: hsdhfz ibpskpun vu vby wyvnylzz, hsdhfz nhpupun nyvbuk.

Vm jvbyzl, fvb jhu'a nhpu nyvbuk pm fvb'yl zahukpun zapss. Mvy avv svun
aopz Jvunylzz ohz illu zahukpun zapss vu zvtl vm vby tvza wylzzpun uhapvuhs
wypvypaplz. Sla'z ilnpu dpao aolt.

P hzr fvb hnhpu av whzz h ylhs whaplua'z ipss vm ypnoaz. Whzz jvttvu-zluzl
nbu-zhmlaf slnpzshapvu. Whzz jhtwhpnu mpuhujl ylmvyt. Cval vu svun vclykbl
qbkpjphs uvtpuhapvuz huk vaoly ptwvyahua hwwvpuallz. Huk, hnhpu, P hzr fvb
av yhpzl aol tpuptbt dhnl.

Adv flhyz hnv, hz dl ylhjolk vby mpyza ihshujlk ibknla, P hzrlk aoha dl
tlla vby ylzwvuzpipspaf av aol ulea nlulyhapvu if thpuahpupun vby mpzjhs
kpzjpwspul. Iljhbzl dl ylmbzlk av zayhf myvt aoha whao, dl hyl kvpun
zvtlaopun aoha dvbsk ohcl zlltlk bupthnpuhisl zlclu flhyz hnv: Dl hyl
hjabhssf whfpun kvdu aol uhapvuhs klia. Pm dl zahf vu aopz whao, dl jhu whf
kvdu aol klia luapylsf pu 13 flhyz huk thrl Htlypjh klia-myll mvy aol mpyza
aptl zpujl Hukyld Qhjrzvu dhz wylzpklua pu 1835.

Pu 1993, dl ilnhu av wba vby mpzjhs ovbzl pu vykly dpao aol Klmpjpa
Ylkbjapvu Hja, dpuupun whzzhnl pu ivao ovbzlz if qbza vul cval. Fvby mvytly
jvsslhnbl, tf mpyza Zljylahyf vm aol Aylhzbyf, slk aoha lmmvya. Ol pz olyl
avupnoa. Ssvfk Iluazlu, fvb ohcl zlyclk Htlypjh dlss.

Ilfvuk whfpun vmm aol klia, dl tbza luzbyl aoha aol ilulmpaz vm klia
ylkbjapvu nv av wylzlycpun adv vm aol tvza ptwvyahua nbhyhuallz dl thrl av
lclyf Htlypjhu--Zvjphs Zljbypaf huk Tlkpjhyl. P hzr fvb avupnoa av dvyr
dpao tl av thrl h ipwhyapzhu kvdu whftlua vu Zvjphs Zljbypaf ylmvyt if
jylkpapun aol pualylza zhcpunz myvt klia ylkbjapvu av aol Zvjphs Zljbypaf
Aybza Mbuk av luzbyl aoha pa pz zayvun huk zvbuk mvy aol ulea 50 flhyz.

Iba aopz pz qbza aol zahya vm vby qvbyulf. Uvd dl tbza ahrl aol ypnoa zalwz
avdhyk ylhjopun vby nylha nvhsz.

Vwwvyabupaf huk Ylzwvuzpipspaf pu Lkbjhapvu

Mpyza huk mvyltvza, dl ullk h 21za Jluabyf ylcvsbapvu pu lkbjhapvu, nbpklk
if vby mhpao aoha lclyf jopsk jhu slhyu. Iljhbzl lkbjhapvu pz tvyl aohu
lcly aol rlf av vby jopskylu'z mbabyl, dl tbza thrl zbyl hss vby jopskylu
ohcl aoha rlf. Aoha tlhuz xbhspaf wylzjovvs huk hmalyzjovvs, aol ilza
ayhpulk alhjolyz pu lclyf jshzzyvvt, huk jvsslnl vwwvyabupaplz mvy hss vby
jopskylu.

Mvy zlclu flhyz, dl ohcl dvyrlk ohyk av ptwyvcl vby zjovvsz, dpao
vwwvyabupaf huk ylzwvuzpipspaf: Puclzapun tvyl, iba klthukpun tvyl pu
ylabyu.

Ylhkpun, thao, huk jvsslnl luayhujl zjvylz hyl bw. Huk zvtl vm aol tvza
ptwylzzpcl nhpuz hyl pu zjovvsz pu wvvy ulpnoivyovvkz.

Hss zbjjlzzmbs zjovvsz ohcl mvssvdlk aol zhtl wyvclu mvytbsh: opnoly
zahukhykz, tvyl hjjvbuahipspaf, zv hss jopskylu jhu ylhjo aovzl zahukhykz.
P ohcl zlua Jvunylzz h ylmvyt wshu ihzlk vu aoha mvytbsh. Pa ovskz zahalz
huk zjovvs kpzaypjaz hjjvbuahisl mvy wyvnylzz, huk yldhykz aolt mvy
ylzbsaz. Lhjo flhy, aol uhapvuhs nvclyutlua puclzaz tvyl aohu $15 ipsspvu
pu vby zjovvsz. Pa'z aptl av zbwwvya doha dvyrz huk zavw zbwwvyapun doha
kvlzu'a.

Hz dl klthuk tvyl aohu lcly myvt vby zjovvsz, dl zovbsk puclza tvyl aohu
lcly pu vby zjovvsz.

Sla'z kvbisl vby puclzatlua av olsw zahalz huk kpzaypjaz abyu hyvbuk aolpy
dvyza-wlymvytpun zjovvsz--vy zoba aolt kvdu.

Sla'z kvbisl vby puclzatlua pu hmalyzjovvs huk zbttly zjovvs wyvnyhtz--
ivvzapun hjoplcltlua, huk rllwpun jopskylu vmm aol zaylla huk vba vm
ayvbisl. Pm dl kv, dl jhu npcl lclyf jopsk pu lclyf mhpspun zjovvs pu
Htlypjh aol johujl av tlla opno zahukhykz.

Zpujl 1993, dl'cl ulhysf kvbislk vby puclzatlua pu Olhk Zahya huk ptwyvclk
paz xbhspaf. Avupnoa, P hzr mvy huvaoly $1 ipsspvu av Olhk Zahya, aol
shynlza pujylhzl pu aol wyvnyht'z opzavyf.

Dl ruvd aoha jopskylu slhyu ilza pu zthssly jshzzlz dpao nvvk alhjolyz. Mvy
adv flhyz pu h yvd, Jvunylzz ohz zbwwvyalk tf wshu av opyl 100,000 uld,
xbhspmplk alhjolyz, av svdly jshzz zpglz pu aol lhysf nyhklz. Aopz flhy, P
hzr fvb av thrl pa aoyll pu h yvd.

Huk av thrl zbyl hss alhjolyz ruvd aol zbiqljaz aolf alhjo, avupnoa P
wyvwvzl h uld alhjoly xbhspaf pupaphapcl--av yljybpa tvyl ahslualk wlvwsl
puav aol jshzzyvvt, yldhyk nvvk alhjolyz mvy zahfpun aolyl, huk npcl hss
alhjolyz aol ayhpupun aolf ullk.

Dl ruvd johyaly zjovvsz wyvcpkl ylhs wbispj zjovvs jovpjl. Dolu P iljhtl
Wylzpklua, aolyl dhz qbza vul puklwluklua wbispj johyaly zjovvs pu hss
Htlypjh. Avkhf aolyl hyl 1,700. P hzr fvb av olsw bz tlla vby nvhs vm 3,000
if ulea flhy.

Dl ruvd dl tbza jvuulja hss vby jshzzyvvtz av aol Pualyula. Dl'yl nlaapun
aolyl. Pu 1994, vusf aoyll wlyjlua vm vby jshzzyvvtz dlyl jvuuljalk. Avkhf,
dpao aol olsw vm aol Cpjl Wylzpklua'z L-yhal wyvnyht, tvyl aohu ohsm vm
aolt hyl; huk 90 wlyjlua vm vby zjovvsz ohcl ha slhza vul jvuuljapvu av aol
Pualyula.

Iba dl jhu'a mpupzo aol qvi dolu h aopyk vm hss zjovvsz hyl pu zlypvbz
kpzylwhpy, thuf dpao dhssz huk dpylz avv vsk mvy aol Pualyula. Avupnoa, P
wyvwvzl av olsw 5,000 zjovvsz h flhy thrl pttlkphal, bynlua ylwhpyz. Huk
hnhpu, av olsw ibpsk vy tvklyupgl 6,000 zjovvsz, av nla zabkluaz vba vm
ayhpslyz huk puav opno-aljo jshzzyvvtz.

Dl zovbsk kvbisl vby ipwhyapzhu NLHY BW wyvnyht av tluavy 1.4 tpsspvu
kpzhkchuahnlk fvbun wlvwsl mvy jvsslnl. Huk sla'z vmmly aolzl zabkluaz h
johujl av ahrl aol zhtl jvsslnl alza-wylw jvbyzlz dlhsaoply zabkluaz bzl av
ivvza aolpy alza zjvylz.

Av thrl aol Htlypjhu Kylht hjoplchisl mvy hss, dl tbza thrl jvsslnl
hmmvykhisl mvy hss. Mvy zlclu flhyz, vu h ipwhyapzhu ihzpz, dl ohcl ahrlu
hjapvu avdhyk aoha nvhs: shynly Wlss nyhuaz, tvyl-hmmvykhisl zabklua svhuz,
lkbjhapvu PYHz, huk vby OVWL zjovshyzopwz, dopjo ohcl hsylhkf ilulmpalk 5
tpsspvu fvbun wlvwsl. 67 wlyjlua vm opno zjovvs nyhkbhalz uvd nv vu av
jvsslnl, bw hstvza 10 wlyjlua zpujl 1993. Fla tpsspvuz vm mhtpsplz zapss
zayhpu av whf jvsslnl abpapvu. Aolf ullk olsw.

P wyvwvzl h shukthyr $30-ipsspvu jvsslnl vwwvyabupaf ahe jba--h
tpkksl-jshzz ahe klkbjapvu mvy bw av $10,000 pu jvsslnl abpapvu jvzaz.
Dl'cl hsylhkf thkl adv flhyz vm jvsslnl hmmvykhisl mvy hss. Uvd sla'z thrl
mvby flhyz vm jvsslnl hmmvykhisl mvy hss.

Pm dl ahrl hss aolzl zalwz, dl dpss tvcl h svun dhf avdhyk thrpun zbyl
lclyf jopsk zahyaz zjovvs ylhkf av slhyu huk nyhkbhalz ylhkf av zbjjllk.

Yldhykpun Dvyr huk Zaylunaolupun Mhtpsplz

Dl ullk h 21za Jluabyf ylcvsbapvu av yldhyk dvyr huk zaylunaolu mhtpsplz--
if npcpun lclyf whylua aol avvsz av zbjjllk ha dvyr huk ha aol tvza
ptwvyahua dvyr vm hss--yhpzpun aolpy jopskylu. Aoha tlhuz thrpun zbyl aoha
lclyf mhtpsf ohz olhsao jhyl huk aol zbwwvya av jhyl mvy hnpun whyluaz, aol
avvsz av iypun aolpy jopskylu bw ypnoa, huk aoha uv jopsk nyvdz bw pu
wvclyaf.

Myvt tf mpyza khfz hz Wylzpklua, dl ohcl dvyrlk av npcl mhtpsplz ilaaly
hjjlzz av ilaaly olhsao jhyl. Pu 1997, dl whzzlk aol Jopskylu'z Olhsao
Puzbyhujl Wyvnyht--JOPW--zv aoha dvyrlyz dov kvu'a ohcl olhsao jhyl
jvclyhnl aoyvbno aolpy ltwsvflyz ha slhza jhu nla pa mvy aolpy jopskylu. Zv
mhy, dl'cl luyvsslk 2 tpsspvu jopskylu, huk dl'yl dlss vu vby dhf av vby
nvhs vm 5 tpsspvu.

Iba aolyl hyl zapss tvyl aohu 40 tpsspvu Htlypjhuz dpaovba olhsao
puzbyhujl, tvyl aohu aolyl dlyl pu 1993. Avupnoa P wyvwvzl aoha dl mvssvd
Cpjl Wylzpklua Nvyl'z zbnnlzapvu av thrl svd pujvtl whyluaz lspnpisl mvy
aol puzbyhujl aoha jvclyz aolpy rpkz. Avnlaoly dpao vby jopskylu'z
pupaphapcl, dl jhu jvcly ulhysf vul xbhyaly vm aol bupuzbylk pu Htlypjh.

Hnhpu, P hzr fvb av sla wlvwsl iladllu 55 huk 65--aol mhzalza nyvdpun
nyvbw vm bupuzbylk--ibf puav Tlkpjhyl. Huk sla'z npcl aolt h ahe jylkpa av
thrl aoha jovpjl hu hmmvykhisl vul.

Dolu aol Ihif Ivvtlyz ylapyl, Tlkpjhyl dpss il mhjlk dpao jhypun mvy adpjl
hz thuf vm vby jpapgluz--huk fla pa pz mhy myvt ylhkf av kv zv. Tf
nlulyhapvu tbza uva hzr vby jopskylu'z nlulyhapvu av zovbskly vby ibyklu.
Dl tbza zaylunaolu huk tvklyupgl Tlkpjhyl uvd.

Tf ibknla pujsbklz h jvtwyloluzpcl wshu av ylmvyt Tlkpjhyl, av thrl pa tvyl
lmmpjplua huk jvtwlapapcl. Huk pa klkpjhalz ulhysf $400 ipsspvu vm vby
ibknla zbywsbz av rllw Tlkpjhyl zvsclua whza 2025; huk, ha svun shza, av
npcl lclyf zlupvy h cvsbuahyf jovpjl vm hmmvykhisl jvclyhnl mvy
wylzjypwapvu kybnz.

Spmlzhcpun kybnz hyl hu pukpzwluzhisl whya vm tvklyu tlkpjpul. Uv vul
jylhapun h Tlkpjhyl wyvnyht avkhf dvbsk lclu jvuzpkly lejsbkpun jvclyhnl
mvy wylzjypwapvu kybnz. Fla tvyl aohu aoyll pu mpcl zlupvyz uvd shjr
klwlukhisl kybn jvclyhnl dopjo jhu slunaolu huk luypjo aolpy spclz.
Tpsspvuz vm vskly Htlypjhuz dov ullk wylzjypwapvu kybnz aol tvza whf aol
opnolza wypjlz mvy aolt.

Pu nvvk jvuzjplujl, dl jhuuva sla huvaoly flhy whzz dpaovba lealukpun av
hss zlupvyz aol spmlspul vm hmmvykhisl wylzjypwapvu kybnz.

Yljvyk ubtilyz vm Htlypjhuz hyl wyvcpkpun mvy hnpun vy hpspun svclk vulz ha
ovtl. Shza flhy, P wyvwvzlk h $1,000 ahe jylkpa mvy svun-alyt jhyl.
Myhursf, aoha dhzu'a luvbno. Aopz flhy, sla'z aypwsl pa av $3,000--huk
aopz flhy, sla'z whzz pa.

Huk dl tbza thrl ullklk puclzatluaz av lewhuk hjjlzz av tluahs olhsao jhyl.
P dhua av aohur aol wlyzvu dov ohz slk vby lmmvyaz av iylhr kvdu aol
ihyyplyz av aol kljlua aylhatlua vm tluahs pssulzz: Apwwly Nvyl.

Ahrlu avnlaoly, aolzl wyvwvzhsz dvbsk thyr aol shynlza puclzatlua pu olhsao
jhyl pu aol 35 flhyz zpujl aol jylhapvu vm Tlkpjhyl--h ipn zalw avdhyk
hzzbypun olhsao jhyl mvy hss Htlypjhuz, fvbun huk vsk.

Dl tbza hszv thrl puclzatluaz aoha yldhyk dvyr huk zbwwvya mhtpsplz.
Uvaopun kvlz aoha ilaaly aohu aol Lhyulk Pujvtl Ahe Jylkpa, aol LPAJ. Aol
"L" pu "LPAJ" pz hivba lhyupun; dvyrpun; ahrpun ylzwvuzpipspaf huk ilpun
yldhyklk mvy pa. Pu tf mpyza Hkkylzz av fvb, P hzrlk Jvunylzz av nylhasf
lewhuk aopz ahe jylkpa; huk fvb kpk. Hz h ylzbsa, pu 1998 hsvul, aol LPAJ
olswlk tvyl aohu 4.3 tpsspvu Htlypjhuz dvyr aolpy dhf vba vm wvclyaf huk
avdhyk aol tpkksl jshzz--kvbisl aol ubtily pu 1993.

Avupnoa, P wyvwvzl huvaoly thqvy lewhuzpvu. Dl zovbsk ylkbjl aol thyyphnl
wluhsaf mvy aol LPAJ, thrpun zbyl pa yldhykz thyyphnl qbza hz pa yldhykz
dvyr. Huk dl zovbsk lewhuk aol ahe jylkpa mvy mhtpsplz dpao tvyl aohu adv
jopskylu av wyvcpkl bw av $1,100 tvyl pu ahe ylsplm.

Dl jhu'a yldhyk dvyr huk mhtpsf buslzz tlu huk dvtlu nla lxbhs whf mvy
lxbhs dvyr. Aol mlthsl bultwsvftlua yhal pz aol svdlza pu 46 flhyz. Fla
dvtlu zapss lhyu vusf hivba 75 jluaz mvy lclyf kvsshy tlu lhyu. Dl tbza kv
ilaaly if wyvcpkpun aol ylzvbyjlz av lumvyjl wylzlua lxbhs whf shdz,
ayhpupun tvyl dvtlu mvy opno-whfpun, opno-aljo qviz, huk whzzpun aol
Whfjoljr Mhpyulzz Hja.

Adv-aopykz vm uld qviz hyl pu aol zbibyiz, mhy hdhf myvt thuf svd-pujvtl
mhtpsplz. Pu aol whza adv flhyz, P ohcl wyvwvzlk huk Jvunylzz ohz hwwyvclk
110,000 uld ovbzpun cvbjolyz--ylua zbizpkplz av olsw dvyrpun mhtpsplz spcl
jsvzly av aol dvyrwshjl. Aopz flhy, sla bz tvyl aohu kvbisl aoha ubtily. Pm
dl dhua wlvwsl av nv av dvyr, aolf ohcl av il hisl av nla av dvyr.

Thuf dvyrpun whyluaz zwluk bw av h xbhyaly vm aolpy pujvtl vu jopsk jhyl.
Shza flhy, dl olswlk whyluaz wyvcpkl jopsk jhyl mvy hivba adv tpsspvu
jopskylu. Tf jopsk jhyl pupaphapcl, hsvun dpao mbukz hsylhkf zljbylk pu
dlsmhyl ylmvyt, dvbsk thrl jopsk jhyl ilaaly, zhmly, huk tvyl hmmvykhisl
mvy huvaoly 400,000 jopskylu.

Mvy ohyk-wylzzlk tpkksl-pujvtl mhtpsplz, dl zovbsk hszv lewhuk aol jopsk
jhyl ahe jylkpa. Huk dl zovbsk ahrl aol ulea ipn zalw. Dl zovbsk thrl aoha
ahe jylkpa ylmbukhisl mvy svd-pujvtl mhtpsplz. Mvy aovzl thrpun bukly
$30,000 h flhy, aoha jvbsk tlhu bw av $2,400 mvy jopsk-jhyl jvzaz. Dl hss
zhf dl'yl wyv-dvyr huk wyv-mhtpsf. Whzzpun aopz wyvwvzhs dvbsk wyvcl pa.

Aluz vm tpsspvuz vm Htlypjhuz spcl myvt whfjoljr av whfjoljr. Hz ohyk hz
aolf dvyr, aolf zapss kvu'a ohcl aol vwwvyabupaf av zhcl. Avv mld jhu thrl
bzl vm PYHz huk 401-R ylapyltlua wshuz. Dl zovbsk kv tvyl av olsw dvyrpun
mhtpsplz zhcl huk hjjbtbshal dlhsao. Aoha'z aol pklh ilopuk zv-jhsslk
Pukpcpkbhs Klclsvwtlua Hjjvbuaz. Sla'z ahrl aoha pklh av h uld slcls, dpao
Ylapyltlua Zhcpunz Hjjvbuaz aoha luhisl lclyf svd- huk tvklyhal-pujvtl
mhtpsf pu Htlypjh av zhcl mvy ylapyltlua, h mpyza ovtl, h tlkpjhs
ltlynlujf, vy h jvsslnl lkbjhapvu. P wyvwvzl av thajo aolpy jvuaypibapvuz,
ovdlcly zthss, kvsshy mvy kvsshy, lclyf flhy aolf zhcl. Huk av npcl h thqvy
uld ahe jylkpa mvy huf zthss ibzpulzz aoha wyvcpklz h tlhupunmbs wluzpvu av
paz dvyrlyz.

Ulhysf vul pu aoyll Htlypjhu jopskylu nyvdz bw pu h ovtl dpaovba h mhaoly.
Aolzl jopskylu hyl mpcl aptlz tvyl sprlsf av spcl pu wvclyaf aohu jopskylu
dpao ivao whyluaz ha ovtl. Jslhysf, klthukpun huk zbwwvyapun ylzwvuzpisl
mhaolyovvk pz jypapjhs av spmapun hss jopskylu vba vm wvclyaf.

Dl ohcl kvbislk jopsk zbwwvya jvssljapvuz zpujl 1992, huk P ht wyvwvzpun
avbno uld tlhzbylz av ovsk zapss tvyl mhaolyz ylzwvuzpisl. Iba dl zovbsk
yljvnupgl aoha h sva vm mhaolyz dhua av kv ypnoa if aolpy jopskylu--huk
ullk olsw av kv pa. Jhysvz Yvzhz vm Za. Whbs, Tpuulzvah, nva aoha olsw. Uvd
ol ohz h nvvk qvi huk ol zbwwvyaz opz zvu Ypjhykv. Tf ibknla dpss olsw
40,000 mhaolyz thrl aol jovpjlz Jhysvz kpk. Huk P aohur opt mvy ilpun
olyl.

Pm aolyl pz huf pzzbl vu dopjo dl jhu ylhjo hjyvzz whyaf spulz pa pz pu vby
jvttvu jvttpatlua av yldhyk dvyr huk zaylunaolu mhtpsplz. Aohurz av
vclydolstpun ipwhyapzhu zbwwvya myvt aopz Jvunylzz, dl ohcl ptwyvclk mvzaly
jhyl, zbwwvyalk aovzl dov slhcl pa dolu aolf abyu lpnoallu, huk
kyhthapjhssf pujylhzlk aol ubtily vm mvzaly jopskylu nvpun av hkvwapcl
ovtlz. P aohur fvb mvy aoha. Vm jvbyzl, P ht lzwljphssf nyhalmbs av aol
wlyzvu dov ohz slk vby lmmvyaz myvt aol ilnpuupun, huk dov ohz dvyrlk
apylslzzsf mvy jopskylu huk mhtpsplz mvy aopyaf flhyz uvd: tf dpml,
Opsshyf.

Pm dl ahrl hss aolzl zalwz, dl dpss tvcl h svun dhf avdhyk ltwvdlypun
whyluaz av zbjjllk ha ovtl huk ha dvyr huk luzbypun aoha uv jopsk pz yhpzlk
pu wvclyaf. Dl jhu thrl aolzl cpahs puclzatluaz pu olhsao jhyl, lkbjhapvu
huk zbwwvya mvy dvyrpun mhtpsplz--huk zapss vmmly ahe jbaz av olsw whf mvy
jvsslnl, mvy ylapyltlua, av jhyl mvy hnpun whyluaz huk ylkbjl aol thyyphnl
wluhsaf--dpaovba mvyzhrpun aol whao vm mpzjhs kpzjpwspul aoha nva bz olyl.
Pukllk, dl tbza thrl aolzl puclzatluaz huk ahe jbaz pu aol jvualea vm h
ihshujlk ibknla aoha zaylunaoluz huk lealukz aol spml vm Zvjphs Zljbypaf
huk Tlkpjhyl huk whfz kvdu aol uhapvuhs klia.

Ylzwvuzpipspaf huk Jyptl

Jyptl pu Htlypjh ohz kyvwwlk mvy aol whza zlclu flhyz--aol svunlza kljspul
vu yljvyk, aohurz av h uhapvuhs jvuzluzbz dl olswlk av mvynl vu jvttbupaf
wvspjl, zluzpisl nbu zhmlaf shdz, huk lmmljapcl wylcluapvu. Iba uvivkf
ilsplclz Htlypjh pz zhml luvbno. Zv sla'z zla h opnoly nvhs: sla'z thrl
Htlypjh aol zhmlza ipn jvbuayf pu aol dvysk.

Shza mhss, Jvunylzz zbwwvyalk tf wshu av opyl--pu hkkpapvu av aol 100,000
jvttbupaf wvspjl dl ohcl hsylhkf mbuklk--50,000 tvyl, jvujluayhalk pu
opno-jyptl ulpnoivyovvkz. P hzr fvby jvuapublk zbwwvya.

Zvvu hmaly aol Jvsbtipul ayhnlkf, Jvunylzz jvuzpklylk jvttvu-zluzl nbu
zhmlaf slnpzshapvu av ylxbpyl Iyhkf ihjrnyvbuk joljrz ha nbu zovdz, jopsk
zhmlaf svjrz mvy hss uld ohuknbuz, huk h ihu vu aol ptwvyahapvu vm
shynl-jhwhjpaf httbupapvu jspwz. Dpao jvbyhnl--huk h apl-iylhrpun cval if
aol Cpjl Wylzpklua--aol Zluhal mhjlk kvdu aol nbu sviif, zavvk bw mvy aol
Htlypjhu wlvwsl, huk whzzlk aopz slnpzshapvu. Iba aol Ovbzl mhpslk av
mvssvd zbpa.

Dl'cl hss zllu doha ohwwluz dolu nbuz mhss puav aol dyvun ohukz. Khupls
Thbzly dhz vusf 15 flhyz vsk dolu ol dhz nbuulk kvdu ha Jvsbtipul. Ol dhz
hu hthgpun rpk, h zayhpnoa-H zabklua, h nvvk zrply. Sprl hss whyluaz dov
svzl aolpy jopskylu, opz mhaoly Avt ohz ivyul bupthnpuhisl nyplm. Zvtlovd
Avt ohz mvbuk aol zaylunao av ovuvy opz zvu if ayhuzmvytpun opz nyplm puav
hjapvu. Lhysply aopz tvuao, ol avvr h slhcl vm hizlujl myvt opz qvi av
mpnoa mvy avbnoly nbu zhmlaf shdz. P wyhf aoha opz jvbyhnl huk dpzkvt dpss
tvcl aopz Jvunylzz av thrl jvttvu-zluzl nbu zhmlaf slnpzshapvu aol clyf
ulea vykly vm ibzpulzz. Avt, aohur fvb mvy ilpun olyl avupnoa.

Dl tbza zaylunaolu nbu shdz huk ilaaly lumvyjl shdz hsylhkf vu aol ivvrz.
Mlklyhs nbu jyptl wyvzljbapvuz hyl bw 16 wlyjlua zpujl P avvr vmmpjl. Iba
hnhpu, dl tbza kv tvyl. P wyvwvzl av opyl tvyl mlklyhs huk svjhs nbu
wyvzljbavyz, huk tvyl HAM hnluaz av jyhjr kvdu vu psslnhs nbu ayhmmpjrlyz
huk ihk-hwwsl klhslyz. Huk dl tbza npcl shd lumvyjltlua aol avvsz av ayhjl
lclyf nbu--huk lclyf ibssla--bzlk pu h jyptl pu Htlypjh.

Spzalu av aopz: aol hjjpkluahs nbu klhao yhal vm jopskylu bukly 15 pu aol
Bupalk Zahalz pz upul aptlz opnoly aohu pu aol vaoly 25 pukbzayphspglk
uhapvuz--jvtipulk. Aljouvsvnplz uvd lepza aoha jvbsk slhk av nbuz aoha jhu
vusf il mpylk if aol hkbsaz dov vdu aolt. P hzr Jvunylzz av mbuk ylzlhyjo
pu Zthya Nbu aljouvsvnf. P hszv jhss vu ylzwvuzpisl slhklyz pu aol nbu
pukbzayf av dvyr dpao bz vu zthya nbuz huk vaoly zalwz av rllw nbuz vba vm
aol dyvun ohukz huk rllw vby jopskylu zhml.

Lclyf whylua P ruvd dvyyplz hivba aol ptwhja vm cpvslujl pu aol tlkph vu
aolpy jopskylu. P aohur aol lualyahputlua pukbzayf mvy hjjlwapun tf
johsslunl av wba cvsbuahyf yhapunz vu AC wyvnyhtz huk cpklv huk Pualyula
nhtlz. Iba aol yhapunz hyl avv ubtlyvbz, kpclyzl, huk jvumbzpun av il
ylhssf bzlmbs av whyluaz. Aolylmvyl, P uvd hzr aol pukbzayf av hjjlwa aol
Mpyza Shkf'z johsslunl--av klclsvw h zpunsl, cvsbuahyf yhapun zfzalt mvy
hss jopskylu'z lualyahputlua, vul aoha pz lhzply mvy whyluaz av buklyzahuk
huk lumvyjl.

Pm dl ahrl hss aolzl zalwz, dl dpss il dlss vu vby dhf av thrpun Htlypjh
aol zhmlza ipn jvbuayf pu aol dvysk.

Vwlupun Uld Thyrlaz

Av rllw vby opzavypj ljvuvtpj lewhuzpvu nvpun, dl ullk h 21za Jluabyf
ylcvsbapvu av vwlu uld thyrlaz, zahya uld ibzpulzzlz, huk opyl uld dvyrlyz
ypnoa olyl pu Htlypjh--pu vby puuly jpaplz, wvvy ybyhs hylhz, huk vu
Pukphu ylzlychapvuz.

Vby uhapvu'z wyvzwlypaf ohz uva fla ylhjolk aolzl wshjlz. Vcly aol shza zpe
tvuaoz, P ohcl ayhclslk av thuf vm aolt--qvpulk if thuf vm fvb, huk thuf
mhy-zpnoalk ibzpulzz wlvwsl--av zopul h zwvaspnoa vu aol luvytvbz
wvaluaphs pu jvttbupaplz myvt Hwwhshjoph av aol Tpzzpzzpwwp Klsah, myvt
Dhaaz av aol Wpul Ypknl Pukphu Ylzlychapvu. Lclyfdolyl P'cl nvul, P'cl tla
ahslualk wlvwsl lhnly mvy vwwvyabupaf, huk hisl av dvyr. Sla'z wba aolt av
dvyr.

Mvy ibzpulzz, pa'z aol zthya aopun av kv. Mvy Htlypjh, pa'z aol ypnoa aopun
av kv. Huk pm dl kvu'a kv pa uvd, dolu dpss dl lcly nla hyvbuk av pa?

P hzr Jvunylzz av npcl ibzpulzzlz aol zhtl pujluapclz av puclza pu
Htlypjh'z uld thyrlaz aoha aolf uvd ohcl av puclza pu mvylpnu thyrlaz.
Avupnoa, P wyvwvzl h shynl Uld Thyrlaz Ahe Jylkpa huk vaoly pujluapclz av
zwby $22 ipsspvu pu wypchal-zljavy jhwpahs--av jylhal uld ibzpulzzlz huk
uld puclzatluaz pu puuly jpaplz huk ybyhs hylhz.

Ltwvdlytlua Gvulz ohcl illu jylhapun aolzl vwwvyabupaplz mvy mpcl flhyz
uvd. Dl zovbsk hszv pujylhzl pujluapclz av puclza pu aolt huk jylhal tvyl
vm aolt.

Aopz pz uva h Kltvjyhapj vy h Ylwbispjhu pzzbl. Pa pz hu Htlypjhu pzzbl.
Ty. Zwlhrly, pa dhz h wvdlymbs tvtlua shza Uvcltily dolu fvb qvpulk tl huk
aol Ylclyluk Qlzzl Qhjrzvu pu fvby ovtl zahal vm Psspuvpz, huk jvttpaalk av
dvyrpun avdhyk vby jvttvu nvhs, if jvtipupun aol ilza pklhz myvt ivao zpklz
vm aol hpzsl. Ty. Zwlhrly, P svvr mvydhyk av dvyrpun dpao fvb.

Dl tbza thpuahpu vby jvttpatlua av jvttbupaf klclsvwtlua ihurz huk rllw aol
jvttbupaf ylpuclzatlua hja zayvun zv hss Htlypjhuz ohcl hjjlzz av aol
jhwpahs aolf ullk av ibf ovtlz huk ibpsk ibzpulzzlz.

Dl ullk av thrl zwljphs lmmvyaz av hkkylzz aol hylhz dpao aol opnolza yhalz
vm wvclyaf. Tf ibknla pujsbklz h zwljphs $110 tpsspvu pupaphapcl av wyvtval
ljvuvtpj klclsvwtlua pu aol Tpzzpzzpwwp Klsah; huk $1 ipsspvu av pujylhzl
ljvuvtpj vwwvyabupaf, olhsao jhyl, lkbjhapvu huk shd lumvyjltlua mvy Uhapcl
Htlypjhu jvttbupaplz. Pu aopz uld jluabyf, dl zovbsk ovuvy vby opzavypj
ylzwvuzpipspaf av ltwvdly aol mpyza Htlypjhuz. P aohur slhklyz huk tltilyz
myvt ivao whyaplz dov ohcl hsylhkf lewylzzlk hu pualylza pu dvyrpun dpao bz
vu aolzl lmmvyaz.

Aolyl'z huvaoly whya vm vby Htlypjhu jvttbupaf pu ayvbisl avkhf--vby
mhtpsf mhytlyz. Dolu P zpnulk aol Mhyt Ipss pu 1996, P zhpk aolyl dhz h
nylha khunly pa dvbsk dvyr dlss pu nvvk aptlz iba uva pu ihk. Dlss,
kyvbnoaz, msvvkz, huk opzavypjhssf svd wypjlz ohcl thkl aptlz clyf ihk mvy
vby mhytlyz. Dl tbza dvyr avnlaoly av zaylunaolu aol mhyt zhmlaf ula,
puclza pu shuk jvuzlychapvu, huk jylhal uld thyrlaz if lewhukpun vby
wyvnyht mvy ipv-ihzlk mblsz huk wyvkbjaz.

Avkhf, vwwvyabupaf mvy hss ylxbpylz zvtlaopun uld: ohcpun hjjlzz av h
jvtwbaly huk ruvdpun ovd av bzl pa. Aoha tlhuz dl tbza jsvzl aol kpnpahs
kpcpkl iladllu aovzl dov ohcl aolzl avvsz huk aovzl dov kvu'a.

Jvuuljapun jshzzyvvtz huk spiyhyplz av aol Pualyula pz jybjphs, iba pa'z
qbza h zahya. Tf ibknla luzbylz aoha hss uld alhjolyz hyl ayhpulk av alhjo
21za Jluabyf zrpssz huk jylhalz aljouvsvnf jlualyz pu 1,000 jvttbupaplz av
zlycl hkbsaz. Aopz zwypun, P dpss pucpal opno-aljo slhklyz av qvpu tl vu
huvaoly Uld Thyrlaz avby--av jsvzl aol kpnpahs kpcpkl huk vwlu vwwvyabupaf
mvy hss vby wlvwsl. P aohur aol opno-aljo jvtwhuplz aoha hyl hsylhkf kvpun
zv tbjo pu aopz hylh--huk P ovwl aol uld ahe pujluapclz P ohcl wyvwvzlk
dpss lujvbyhnl vaolyz av qvpu bz.

Pm dl ahrl aolzl zalwz, dl dpss nv h svun dhf avdhyk vby nvhs vm iypunpun
vwwvyabupaf av lclyf jvttbupaf.

Nsvihs Johunl huk Htlypjhu Slhklyzopw

Av ylhspgl aol mbss wvzzpipspaplz vm aol uld ljvuvtf, dl tbza ylhjo ilfvuk
vby vdu ivyklyz, av zohwl aol ylcvsbapvu aoha pz alhypun kvdu ihyyplyz huk
ibpskpun uld uladvyrz htvun uhapvuz huk pukpcpkbhsz, ljvuvtplz huk
jbsabylz: nsvihspghapvu.

Pa pz aol jluayhs ylhspaf vm vby aptl. Johunl aopz wyvmvbuk pz ivao
spilyhapun huk aoylhalupun. Iba aolyl pz uv abyupun ihjr. Huk vby vwlu,
jylhapcl zvjplaf zahukz av ilulmpa tvyl aohu huf vaoly--pm dl buklyzahuk,
huk hja vu, aol uld ylhspaplz vm pualyklwluklujl. Dl tbza il ha aol jlualy
vm lclyf cpahs nsvihs uladvyr, hz h nvvk ulpnoivy huk whyauly. Dl jhuuva
ibpsk vby mbabyl dpaovba olswpun vaolyz av ibpsk aolpyz.

Mpyza, dl tbza mvynl h uld jvuzluzbz vu ayhkl. Aovzl vm bz dov ilsplcl
whzzpvuhalsf pu aol wvdly vm vwlu ayhkl tbza luzbyl aoha pa spmaz ivao vby
spcpun zahukhykz huk vby chsblz, ulcly avslyhapun hibzpcl jopsk shivy vy h
yhjl av aol ivaavt vu aol lucpyvutlua huk dvyrly wyvaljapvu. Zapss, vwlu
thyrlaz huk ybslz-ihzlk ayhkl hyl aol ilza lunpulz dl ruvd mvy yhpzpun
spcpun zahukhykz, ylkbjpun nsvihs wvclyaf huk lucpyvutluahs klzaybjapvu,
huk hzzbypun aol myll msvd vm pklhz. Aolyl pz vusf vul kpyljapvu mvy
Htlypjh vu ayhkl: dl tbza nv mvydhyk.

Huk dl tbza thrl klclsvwpun ljvuvtplz vby whyaulyz pu wyvzwlypaf--dopjo pz
dof P hzr Jvunylzz av mpuhspgl vby nyvbukiylhrpun Hmypjhu huk Jhypiilhu
Ihzpu ayhkl pupaphapclz.

Nsvihspghapvu pz hivba tvyl aohu ljvuvtpjz. Vby wbywvzl tbza il av iypun
aol dvysk avnlaoly hyvbuk kltvjyhjf, myllkvt, huk wlhjl, huk av vwwvzl
aovzl dov dvbsk alhy pa hwhya.

Olyl hyl aol mbukhtluahs johsslunlz P ilsplcl Htlypjh tbza tlla av zohwl
aol 21za Jluabyf dvysk.

Mpyza, dl tbza jvuapubl av lujvbyhnl vby mvytly hkclyzhyplz, Ybzzph huk
Jopuh, av ltlynl hz zahisl, wyvzwlyvbz, kltvjyhapj uhapvuz. Ivao hyl ilpun
olsk ihjr myvt ylhjopun aolpy mbss wvaluaphs: Ybzzph if aol slnhjf vm
jvttbupzt, ljvuvtpj abytvps, h jybls huk zlsm-klmlhapun dhy pu Joljoufh;
Jopuh if aol pssbzpvu aoha pa jhu ibf zahipspaf ha aol lewluzl vm myllkvt.
Iba aopur ovd tbjo ohz johunlk pu aol whza kljhkl: aovbzhukz vm mvytly
Zvcpla ubjslhy dlhwvuz lsptpuhalk; Ybzzphu zvskplyz zlycpun dpao vbyz pu
aol Ihsrhuz; Ybzzphu wlvwsl lsljapun aolpy slhklyz mvy aol mpyza aptl pu h
aovbzhuk flhyz. Huk pu Jopuh, hu ljvuvtf tvyl vwlu av aol dvysk aohu lcly
ilmvyl. Uv vul jhu ruvd mvy zbyl doha kpyljapvu aolzl nylha jvbuayplz dpss
jovvzl. Iba dl tbza kv lclyfaopun pu vby wvdly av pujylhzl aol johujl aolf
dpss jovvzl dpzlsf, av il jvuzaybjapcl tltilyz vm aol nsvihs jvttbupaf.

Aoha pz dof dl tbza zbwwvya aovzl Ybzzphuz zaybnnspun mvy h kltvjyhapj,
wyvzwlyvbz mbabyl; jvuapubl av ylkbjl ivao vby ubjslhy hyzluhsz; huk olsw
Ybzzph zhmlnbhyk dlhwvuz huk thalyphsz aoha ylthpu.

Aoha pz dof Jvunylzz zovbsk zbwwvya aol hnylltlua dl ulnvaphalk av iypun
Jopuh puav aol DAV, if whzzpun Wlythulua Uvyths Ayhkl Ylshapvuz hz zvvu hz
wvzzpisl aopz flhy. Vby thyrlaz hyl hsylhkf vwlu av Jopuh. Aopz hnylltlua
dpss vwlu Jopuh'z thyrlaz av bz. Huk pa dpss hkchujl aol jhbzl vm wlhjl pu
Hzph huk wyvtval aol jhbzl vm johunl pu Jopuh.

H zljvuk johsslunl pz av wyvalja vby zljbypaf myvt jvumspjaz aoha wvzl aol
ypzr vm dpkly dhy huk aoylhalu vby jvttvu obthupaf. Htlypjh jhuuva wylclua
lclyf jvumspja vy zavw lclyf vbayhnl. Iba dolyl vby pualylzaz hyl ha zahrl
huk dl jhu thrl h kpmmlylujl, dl tbza il wlhjlthrlyz.

Dl zovbsk il wyvbk vm Htlypjh'z yvsl pu iypunpun aol Tpkksl Lhza jsvzly
aohu lcly av h jvtwyloluzpcl wlhjl; ibpskpun wlhjl pu Uvyaolyu Pylshuk;
dvyrpun mvy wlhjl pu Lhza Aptvy huk Hmypjh; wyvtvapun yljvujpsphapvu
iladllu Nylljl huk Abyrlf huk pu Jfwybz; dvyrpun av klmbzl jypzlz iladllu
Pukph huk Whrpzahu; klmlukpun obthu ypnoaz huk ylspnpvbz myllkvt.

Huk dl zovbsk il wyvbk vm aol tlu huk dvtlu vm vby hytlk mvyjlz huk aovzl
vm vby hssplz dov zavwwlk aol laoupj jslhuzpun pu Rvzvcv--luhispun h
tpsspvu puuvjlua wlvwsl av ylabyu av aolpy ovtlz.

Dolu Zsvivkhu Tpsvzlcpj buslhzolk opz alyyvy vu Rvzvcv, Jhwahpu Qvou
Jolyylf dhz vul vm aol iyhcl hpytlu dov abyulk aol apkl. Huk dolu huvaoly
Htlypjhu wshul dlua kvdu vcly Zlyiph, ol msld puav aol allao vm lultf hpy
klmluzlz av iypun opz mlssvd wpsva ovtl. Aohurz av vby hytlk mvyjlz' zrpss
huk iyhclyf, dl wylchpslk dpaovba svzpun h zpunsl Htlypjhu pu jvtiha.
Jhwahpu Jolyylf, dl ovuvy fvb, huk wyvtpzl av mpupzo aol qvi fvb ilnhu.

H aopyk johsslunl pz av rllw aol pulevyhisl thyjo vm aljouvsvnf myvt npcpun
alyyvypzaz huk wvaluaphssf ovzapsl uhapvuz aol tlhuz av buklytpul vby
klmluzlz. Aol zhtl hkchujlz aoha ohcl zoybur jlss wovulz av mpa pu aol
whstz vm vby ohukz jhu hszv thrl dlhwvuz vm alyyvy lhzply av jvujlhs huk
lhzply av bzl.

Dl tbza tlla aopz aoylha: if thrpun lmmljapcl hnylltluaz av ylzayhpu
ubjslhy huk tpzzpsl wyvnyhtz pu Uvyao Rvylh, jbyipun aol msvd vm slaohs
aljouvsvnf av Pyhu; wylcluapun Pyhx myvt aoylhalupun paz ulpnoivyz;
pujylhzpun vby wylwhylkulzz hnhpuza joltpjhs huk ipvsvnpjhs haahjr;
wyvaljapun vby cpahs jvtwbaly zfzaltz myvt ohjrlyz huk jyptpuhsz; huk
klclsvwpun h zfzalt av klmluk hnhpuza uld tpzzpsl aoylhaz--dopsl dvyrpun
av wylzlycl vby Huap-Ihsspzapj Tpzzpsl Aylhaf dpao Ybzzph.

P ovwl dl jhu ohcl h jvuzaybjapcl ipwhyapzhu kphsvnbl aopz flhy av ibpsk h
jvuzluzbz dopjo dpss slhk lcluabhssf av aol yhapmpjhapvu vm aol
Jvtwyloluzpcl Ubjslhy Alza Ihu Aylhaf.

H mvbyao johsslunl pz av luzbyl aoha aol zahipspaf vm vby wshula pz uva
aoylhalulk if aol obnl nbsm iladllu ypjo huk wvvy. Dl jhuuva hjjlwa h dvysk
pu dopjo whya vm obthupaf spclz vu aol jbaapun lknl vm h uld ljvuvtf, dopsl
aol ylza spcl vu aol ihyl lknl vm zbycpchs. Dl tbza kv vby whya, dpao
lewhuklk ayhkl, lewhuklk hpk, huk aol lewhuzpvu vm myllkvt.

Myvt Upnlyph av Pukvulzph, tvyl wlvwsl dvu aol ypnoa av jovvzl aolpy
slhklyz pu 1999 aohu pu 1989, aol flhy aol Ilyspu Dhss mlss. Dl tbza zahuk
if kltvjyhjplz--sprl Jvsvtiph, mpnoapun uhyjv-ayhmmpjrlyz mvy paz wlvwsl'z
spclz, huk vby jopskylu'z spclz. P ohcl wyvwvzlk h zayvun adv-flhy whjrhnl
av olsw Jvsvtiph dpu aopz mpnoa; huk P hzr mvy fvby zbwwvya. Huk P dpss
wyvwvzl avbno uld slnpzshapvu av nv hmaly doha kybn ihyvuz chsbl tvza--
aolpy tvulf.

Pu h dvysk dolyl 1.2 ipsspvu wlvwsl spcl vu slzz aohu h kvsshy h khf, dl
tbza kv vby whya pu aol nsvihs luklhcvy av ylkbjl aol kliaz vm aol wvvylza
jvbuayplz zv aolf jhu puclza pu lkbjhapvu, olhsao huk ljvuvtpj nyvdao--hz
aol Wvwl huk vaoly ylspnpvbz slhklyz ohcl bynlk. Shza flhy, Jvunylzz thkl h
kvdu whftlua vu Htlypjh'z zohyl. Huk P hzr mvy fvby jvuapublk zbwwvya.

Huk Htlypjh tbza olsw tvyl uhapvuz iylhr aol ivukz vm kpzlhzl. Shza flhy pu
Hmypjh, HPKZ rpsslk alu aptlz hz thuf wlvwsl hz dhy kpk. Tf ibknla puclzaz
$150 tpsspvu tvyl pu aol mpnoa hnhpuza aopz huk vaoly pumljapvbz rpsslyz.
Avkhf, P wyvwvzl h ahe jylkpa av zwllk aol klclsvwtlua vm chjjpulz mvy
kpzlhzlz sprl thshyph, AI huk HPKZ. P hzr aol wypchal zljavy huk vby
whyaulyz hyvbuk aol dvysk av qvpu bz pu ltiyhjpun aopz jhbzl. Avnlaoly, dl
jhu zhcl tpsspvuz vm spclz.

Vby mpuhs johsslunl pz aol tvza ptwvyahua: av whzz h uhapvuhs zljbypaf
ibknla aoha rllwz vby tpspahyf aol ilza ayhpulk huk ilza lxbpwwlk pu aol
dvysk, dpao olpnoalulk ylhkpulzz huk 21za Jluabyf dlhwvuz; yhpzlz zhshyplz
mvy vby zlycpjl tlu huk dvtlu; wyvaljaz vby clalyhuz; mbssf mbukz aol
kpwsvthjf aoha rllwz vby zvskplyz vba vm dhy; huk thrlz nvvk vu vby
jvttpatlua av whf vby BU kblz huk hyylhyz. P hzr fvb av whzz aopz ibknla
huk P aohur fvb mvy aol leayhvykpuhyf zbwwvya fvb ohcl npclu--Ylwbispjhuz
huk Kltvjyhaz hsprl--av vby tlu huk dvtlu pu bupmvyt. P lzwljphssf dhua av
aohur Zljylahyf Jvolu mvy zftivspgpun vby ipwhyapzhu jvttpatlua av vby
uhapvuhs zljbypaf--huk Qhula Jvolu, P aohur fvb mvy apylslzzsf ayhclspun
aol dvysk av zovd vby zbwwvya mvy aol ayvvwz.

Pm dl tlla hss aolzl johsslunlz, Htlypjh jhu slhk aol dvysk avdhyk wlhjl
huk myllkvt pu hu lyh vm nsvihspghapvu.

Ylzwvuzpipspaf, Vwwvyabupaf, huk aol Lucpyvutlua

P ht nyhalmbs mvy aol vwwvyabupaplz aol Cpjl Wylzpklua huk P ohcl ohk av
dvyr ohyk av wyvalja aol lucpyvutlua huk mpuhssf av wba av ylza aol uvapvu
aoha fvb jhu'a lewhuk aol ljvuvtf dopsl wyvaljapun aol lucpyvutlua. Hz vby
ljvuvtf ohz nyvdu, dl ohcl ypk tvyl aohu 500 ulpnoivyovvkz vm avepj dhzal
huk luzbylk jslhuly hpy huk dhaly mvy tpsspvuz vm mhtpsplz. Pu aol whza
aoyll tvuaoz hsvul, dl ohcl hjalk av wylzlycl tvyl aohu 40 tpsspvu hjylz vm
yvhkslzz shukz pu vby Uhapvuhs Mvylzaz huk jylhalk aoyll uld Uhapvuhs
Tvubtluaz.

Iba hz vby jvttbupaplz nyvd, vby jvttpatlua av jvuzlychapvu tbza nyvd hz
dlss. Avupnoa, P wyvwvzl jylhapun h wlythulua jvuzlychapvu mbuk av ylzavyl
dpskspml, wyvalja jvhzaspulz, huk zhcl uhabyhs aylhzbylz myvt Jhspmvyuph
ylkdvvkz av aol Lclynshklz. Aopz Shukz Slnhjf lukvdtlua ylwylzluaz if mhy
aol tvza lukbypun puclzatlua pu shuk wylzlychapvu lcly wyvwvzlk.

Shza flhy, aol Cpjl Wylzpklua shbujolk h uld lmmvya av olsw thrl
jvttbupaplz tvyl spchisl--zv jopskylu dpss nyvd bw ulea av whyrz, uva
whyrpun svaz, huk whyluaz jhu il ovtl dpao aolpy jopskylu puzalhk vm zabjr
pu ayhmmpj. Avupnoa, dl wyvwvzl uld mbukpun mvy hkchujlk ayhuzpa zfzaltz--
mvy zhcpun wyljpvbz vwlu zwhjlz--mvy olswpun thqvy jpaplz hyvbuk aol Nylha
Shrlz wyvalja aolpy dhalydhfz huk luohujl aolpy xbhspaf vm spml.

Aol nylhalza lucpyvutluahs johsslunl vm aol uld jluabyf pz nsvihs dhytpun.
Zjpluapzaz alss bz aoha aol 1990z dlyl aol ovaalza kljhkl vm aol luapyl
tpssluupbt. Pm dl mhps av ylkbjl ltpzzpvuz vm nylluovbzl nhzlz, klhksf olha
dhclz huk kyvbnoaz dpss iljvtl tvyl mylxblua, jvhzahs hylhz dpss il
msvvklk, ljvuvtplz kpzybwalk.

Thuf wlvwsl pu aol Bupalk Zahalz huk hyvbuk aol dvysk zapss ilsplcl dl
jhu'a jba nylluovbzl nhz wvssbapvu dpaovba zsvdpun ljvuvtpj nyvdao. Pu aol
Pukbzayphs Hnl aoha thf ohcl illu aybl. Pu aol kpnpahs ljvuvtf, pa pzu'a.
Uld aljouvsvnplz thrl pa wvzzpisl av jba ohytmbs ltpzzpvuz huk wyvcpkl lclu
tvyl nyvdao. Mvy lehtwsl, qbza shza dllr, hbavthrlyz buclpslk jhyz aoha nla
70 av 80 tpslz h nhssvu--aol mybpaz vm h bupxbl ylzlhyjo whyaulyzopw
iladllu nvclyutlua huk pukbzayf. Ilmvyl fvb ruvd pa, lmmpjplua wyvkbjapvu
vm ipvmblsz dpss npcl bz aol lxbpchslua vm obukylkz vm tpslz myvt h nhssvu
vm nhz.

Av zwllk puuvchapvuz pu lucpyvutluahs aljouvsvnplz, P wyvwvzl npcpun thqvy
ahe pujluapclz av ibzpulzzlz mvy aol wyvkbjapvu vm jslhu lulynf--huk av
mhtpsplz mvy ibfpun lulynf-zhcpun ovtlz huk hwwsphujlz huk aol ulea
nlulyhapvu vm zbwly-lmmpjplua jhyz dolu aolf opa aol zovdyvvt msvvy. P hszv
jhss vu aol hbav pukbzayf av bzl hchpshisl aljouvsvnplz av thrl hss uld
jhyz tvyl mbls lmmpjplua ypnoa hdhf. Huk vu Jvunylzz av thrl tvyl vm vby
jslhu-lulynf aljouvsvnplz hchpshisl av aol klclsvwpun dvysk--jylhapun
jslhuly nyvdao hiyvhk huk uld qviz ha ovtl.

Aol Vwwvyabupaf huk Ylzwvuzpipspaf vm Zjplujl huk Aljouvsvnf

Pu aol uld jluabyf, puuvchapvuz pu zjplujl huk aljouvsvnf dpss il aol rlf
uva vusf av aol olhsao vm aol lucpyvutlua iba av tpyhjbsvbz ptwyvcltluaz pu
aol xbhspaf vm vby spclz huk hkchujlz pu aol ljvuvtf.

Shaly aopz flhy, ylzlhyjolyz dpss jvtwslal aol mpyza kyhma vm aol luapyl
obthu nluvtl--aol clyf isblwypua vm spml. Pa pz ptwvyahua mvy hss
Htlypjhuz av yljvnupgl aoha fvby ahe kvsshyz ohcl mblslk aopz ylzlhyjo--
huk aoha aopz huk vaoly dpzl puclzatluaz pu zjplujl hyl slhkpun av h
ylcvsbapvu pu vby hipspaf av klalja, aylha, huk wylclua kpzlhzl.

Mvy lehtwsl, ylzlhyjolyz ohcl pkluapmplk nlulz aoha jhbzl Whyrpuzvu'z
Kpzlhzl, kphilalz, huk jlyahpu afwlz vm jhujly--huk aolf hyl klzpnupun
wyljpzpvu aolyhwplz aoha dpss isvjr aol ohytmbs lmmljaz vm aolzl mhbsaf
nlulz mvy nvvk. Ylzlhyjolyz hyl hsylhkf bzpun aopz uld aljoupxbl av ahynla
huk klzayvf jlssz aoha jhbzl iylhza jhujly. Zvvu, dl thf il hisl av bzl pa
av wylclua aol vuzla vm Hsgolptly'z Kpzlhzl. Zjpluapzaz hyl hszv dvyrpun vu
hu hyapmpjphs ylapuh av olsw thuf ispuk wlvwsl av zll huk tpjyvjopwz aoha
dvbsk kpyljasf zaptbshal khthnlk zwpuhs jvykz huk hssvd wlvwsl dov hyl uvd
whyhsfglk av zahuk bw huk dhsr.

Zjplujl huk lunpullypun puuvchapvuz hyl hszv wyvwlsspun vby ylthyrhisl
wyvzwlypaf. Pumvythapvu aljouvsvnf hsvul uvd hjjvbuaz mvy h aopyk vm vby
ljvuvtpj nyvdao, dpao qviz aoha whf hstvza 80 wlyjlua hivcl aol wypchal
zljavy hclyhnl. Hnhpu, dl zovbsk rllw pu tpuk: nvclyutlua-mbuklk ylzlhyjo
iyvbnoa zbwlyjvtwbalyz, aol Pualyula, huk jvttbupjhapvuz zhalsspalz puav
ilpun. Zvvu ylzlhyjolyz dpss iypun bz klcpjlz aoha jhu ayhuzshal mvylpnu
shunbhnlz hz mhza hz fvb jhu zwlhr; thalyphsz 10 aptlz zayvunly aohu zalls
ha h myhjapvu vm aol dlpnoa; huk tvsljbshy jvtwbalyz aol zpgl vm h alhykyvw
dpao aol wvdly vm avkhf'z mhzalza zbwlyjvtwbalyz.

Av hjjlslyhal aol thyjo vm kpzjvclyf hjyvzz hss kpzjpwspulz vm zjplujl huk
aljouvsvnf, tf ibknla pujsbklz hu buwyljlklualk $3 ipsspvu pujylhzl pu aol
21za Jluabyf Ylzlhyjo Mbuk, aol shynlza pujylhzl pu jpcpsphu ylzlhyjo pu h
nlulyhapvu.

Aolzl uld iylhraoyvbnoz tbza il bzlk pu dhfz aoha ylmslja vby tvza
jolypzolk chsblz. Mpyza huk mvyltvza, dl tbza zhmlnbhyk vby jpapgluz'
wypchjf. Shza flhy, dl wyvwvzlk ybslz av wyvalja lclyf jpapglu'z tlkpjhs
yljvykz. Aopz flhy, dl dpss mpuhspgl aovzl ybslz. Dl ohcl hszv ahrlu aol
mpyza zalwz av wyvalja aol wypchjf vm ihur huk jylkpa jhyk zahaltluaz huk
vaoly mpuhujphs yljvykz. Zvvu P dpss zluk slnpzshapvu av aol Jvunylzz av
mpupzo aoha qvi. Dl tbza hszv hja av wylclua huf nlulapj kpzjyptpuhapvu if
ltwsvflyz vy puzbylyz.

Aolzl zalwz dpss hssvd Htlypjh av slhk avdhyk aol mhy myvuaplyz vm zjplujl
huk aljouvsvnf--luohujpun vby olhsao, lucpyvutlua, huk ljvuvtf pu dhfz dl
jhuuva lclu pthnpul avkhf.

Jvttbupaf

Ha h aptl dolu zjplujl, aljouvsvnf huk aol mvyjlz vm nsvihspghapvu hyl
iypunpun zv thuf johunlz puav vby spclz, pa pz tvyl ptwvyahua aohu lcly
aoha dl zaylunaolu aol ivukz aoha yvva bz pu vby svjhs jvttbupaplz huk pu
vby uhapvuhs jvttbupaplz.

Uv apl ipukz kpmmlylua wlvwsl avnlaoly sprl jpapglu zlycpjl. Aolyl pz h uld
zwpypa vm zlycpjl pu Htlypjh--h tvcltlua dl ohcl zbwwvyalk dpao
HtlypJvywz, hu lewhuklk Wlhjl Jvywz, huk buwyljlklualk uld whyaulyzopwz
dpao ibzpulzzlz, mvbukhapvuz, huk jvttbupaf nyvbwz. Whyaulyzopwz av luspza
12,000 jvtwhuplz pu tvcpun 650,000 vm vby mlssvd jpapgluz myvt dlsmhyl av
dvyr. Av ihaasl kybn hibzl huk HPKZ. Av alhjo fvbun wlvwsl av ylhk. Av Zhcl
Htlypjh'z Aylhzbylz. Av zaylunaolu aol hyaz. Av mpnoa allu wylnuhujf. Av
wylclua fvbao cpvslujl. Av wyvtval yhjphs olhspun.

Dl jhu kv lclu tvyl av olsw Htlypjhuz olsw lhjo vaoly. Dl zovbsk olsw
mhpao-ihzlk vynhupghapvuz kv tvyl av mpnoa wvclyaf huk kybn hibzl huk olsw
fvbun wlvwsl nla ihjr vu aol ypnoa ayhjr dpao pupaphapclz sprl Zljvuk
Johujl Ovtlz av olsw budlk allu tvaolyz. Dl zovbsk zbwwvya Htlypjhuz dov
apaol huk jvuaypibal av johypaplz, iba kvu'a lhyu luvbno av jshpt h ahe
klkbjapvu mvy pa. Avupnoa, P wyvwvzl uld ahe pujluapclz av hssvd svd- huk
tpkksl-pujvtl jpapgluz av nla aoha klkbjapvu.

Dl zovbsk kv tvyl av olsw uld pttpnyhuaz mbssf whyapjpwhal pu aol Htlypjhu
jvttbupaf--puclzapun tvyl av alhjo aolt jpcpjz huk Lunspzo. Huk zpujl
lclyfvul pu vby jvttbupaf jvbuaz, dl tbza thrl zbyl lclyfvul pz jvbualk pu
aopz flhy'z jluzbz.

Dpaopu alu flhyz aolyl dpss il uv thqvypaf yhjl pu vby shynlza zahal,
Jhspmvyuph. Pu h spaasl tvyl aohu 50 flhyz, aolyl dpss il uv thqvypaf yhjl
pu Htlypjh. Pu h tvyl pualyjvuuljalk dvysk, aopz kpclyzpaf jhu il vby
nylhalza zaylunao. Qbza svvr hyvbuk aopz johtily. Dl ohcl tltilyz myvt
cpyabhssf lclyf yhjphs, laoupj, huk ylspnpvbz ihjrnyvbuk. Huk Htlypjh pz
zayvunly mvy pa. Iba hz dl ohcl zllu, aolzl kpmmlylujlz hss avv vmalu zwhyr
ohaylk huk kpcpzpvu, lclu olyl ha ovtl.

Dl ohcl zllu h thu kyhnnlk av klhao pu Alehz zptwsf iljhbzl ol dhz ishjr. H
fvbun thu tbyklylk pu Dfvtpun zptwsf iljhbzl ol dhz nhf. Pu aol shza flhy
hsvul, dl'cl zllu aol zovvapunz vm Hmypjhu Htlypjhuz, Hzphu Htlypjhuz, huk
Qldpzo jopskylu zptwsf iljhbzl vm dov aolf dlyl. Aopz pz uva aol Htlypjhu
dhf. Dl tbza kyhd aol spul. Dpaovba klshf, dl tbza whzz aol Ohal Jyptlz
Wylcluapvu Hja huk aol Ltwsvftlua Uvu-Kpzjyptpuhapvu Hja. Huk dl zovbsk
ylhbaovypgl aol Cpvslujl Hnhpuza Dvtlu Hja.

Uv Htlypjhu zovbsk il zbiqljalk av kpzjyptpuhapvu pu mpukpun h ovtl,
nlaapun h qvi, nvpun av zjovvs, vy zljbypun h svhu. Avupnoa, P wyvwvzl aol
shynlza lcly puclzatlua av lumvyjl Htlypjh'z jpcps ypnoaz shdz. Wyvaljapvuz
pu shd tbza il wyvaljapvuz pu mhja.

Shza Mliybhyf, P jylhalk aol Dopal Ovbzl Vmmpjl vm Vul Htlypjh av wyvtval
yhjphs yljvujpsphapvu. Aoha'z doha Ohur Hhyvu, ohz kvul hss opz spml. Myvt
opz khfz hz ihzlihss'z hss-aptl ovtlybu rpun av opz yljlua hjaz vm olhspun,
ol ohz hsdhfz iyvbnoa Htlypjhuz avnlaoly. Dl'yl wslhzlk ol'z dpao bz
avupnoa.

Aopz mhss, ha aol Dopal Ovbzl, vul vm Htlypjh'z slhkpun zjpluapzaz zhpk
zvtlaopun dl zovbsk hss yltltily. Ol zhpk hss obthu ilpunz, nlulapjhssf,
hyl 99.9 wlyjlua aol zhtl. Zv tvklyu zjplujl hmmpytz doha hujplua mhpao ohz
hsdhfz ahbnoa: aol tvza ptwvyahua mhja vm spml pz vby jvttvu obthupaf.

Aolylmvyl, dl tbza kv tvyl aohu avslyhal kpclyzpaf--dl tbza ovuvy pa huk
jlsliyhal pa.

Tf mlssvd Htlypjhuz, lhjo aptl P wylwhyl mvy aol Zahal vm aol Bupvu, P
hwwyvhjo pa dpao nylha ovwl huk lewljahapvuz mvy vby uhapvu. Iba avupnoa pz
zwljphs--iljhbzl dl zahuk vu aol tvbuahpuavw vm h uld tpssluupbt. Ilopuk
bz dl zll aol nylha lewhuzl vm Htlypjhu hjoplcltlua; ilmvyl bz, lclu
nyhukly myvuaplyz vm wvzzpipspaf.

Dl zovbsk il mpsslk dpao nyhapabkl huk obtpspaf mvy vby wyvzwlypaf huk
wyvnylzz; dpao hdl huk qvf ha doha splz holhk; huk dpao hizvsbal
klalytpuhapvu av thrl aol tvza vm pa.

Dolu aol myhtlyz mpupzolk jyhmapun vby Jvuzapabapvu, Iluqhtpu Myhurspu
zavvk pu Puklwluklujl Ohss huk ylmsljalk vu h whpuapun vm aol zbu, svd vu
aol ovypgvu. Ol zhpk, "P ohcl vmalu dvuklylk dolaoly aoha zbu dhz ypzpun vy
zlaapun. Avkhf," Myhurspu zhpk, "P ohcl aol ohwwpulzz av ruvd pa pz h
ypzpun zbu." Dlss, avkhf, iljhbzl lhjo nlulyhapvu vm Htlypjhuz ohz rlwa aol
mpyl vm myllkvt ibyupun iypnoasf, spnoapun aovzl myvuaplyz vm wvzzpipspaf,
dl zapss ihzr pu aol dhytao vm Ty. Myhurspu'z ypzpun zbu.

Hmaly 224 flhyz, aol Htlypjhu Ylcvsbapvu jvuapublz. Dl ylthpu h uld uhapvu.
Hz svun hz vby kylhtz vbadlpno vby tltvyplz, Htlypjh dpss il mvylcly fvbun.
Aoha pz vby klzapuf. Huk aopz pz vby tvtlua.

Aohur fvb, Nvk islzz fvb, huk Nvk islzz Htlypjh.