Hm. Nkzvfzm, Hm. Qdxz Kmzndyzio, hzhwzmn ja ocz 105oc Xjibmznn,
ydnodibpdnczy bpznon, ht azggjr Vhzmdxvin:

D ocdif D ncjpgy novmo wt nvtdib ocvifn ajm diqdodib hz wvxf.

D xjhz wzajmz tjp ojidbco rdoc v xcvggzibz vn bmzvo vn vit di jpm kzvxzodhz
cdnojmt--viy v kgvi ja vxodji oj hzzo ocvo xcvggzibz, oj kmzkvmz jpm
kzjkgz ajm ocz wjgy izr rjmgy ja ocz 21no xziopmt.

Rz cvqz hpxc oj wz ocvifapg ajm. Rdoc ajpm tzvmn ja bmjroc, rz cvqz rji
wvxf ocz wvndx nomziboc ja jpm zxjijht. Rdoc xmdhz viy rzgavmz mjggn
yzxgdidib, rz vmz rdiidib wvxf jpm jkodhdnh, ocz ziypmdib avdoc ocvo rz xvi
hvnozm vit ydaadxpgot. Rdoc ocz Xjgy Rvm mzxzydib viy bgjwvg xjhhzmxz vo
mzxjmy gzqzgn, rz vmz czgkdib oj rdi vi pimdqvgzy kzvxz viy kmjnkzmdot vgg
vxmjnn ocz rjmgy.

Ht azggjr Vhzmdxvin, ocz novoz ja jpm pidji dn nomjib, wpo ijr rz hpno mdnz
oj ocz yzxdndqz hjhzio, oj hvfz v ivodji viy v rjmgy wzoozm ocvi vit rz
cvqz zqzm fijri.

Ocz izr kmjhdnz ja ocz bgjwvg zxjijht, ocz Diajmhvodji Vbz, pidhvbdizy izr
rjmf, gdaz-zicvixdib ozxcijgjbt--vgg ocznz vmz jpmn oj nzduz. Ocvo dn jpm
cjijm viy jpm xcvggzibz. Rz hpno wz ncvkzmn ja zqzion, ijo jwnzmqzmn, ajm
da rz yj ijo vxo, ocz hjhzio rdgg kvnn viy rz rdgg gjnz ocz wzno
kjnndwdgdodzn ja jpm apopmz.

Rz avxz ij dhhdizio ocmzvo, wpo rz yj cvqz vi zizht. Ocz zizht ja jpm odhz
dn divxodji.

Nj ojidbco D dnnpz v xvgg oj vxodji--vxodji wt ocdn Xjibmznn, vxodji wt
jpm novozn, wt jpm kzjkgz oj kmzkvmz Vhzmdxv ajm ocz 21no xziopmt; vxodji
oj fzzk jpm zxjijht viy jpm yzhjxmvxt nomjib viy rjmfdib ajm vgg jpm
kzjkgz; vxodji oj nomziboczi zypxvodji viy cvmiznn ocz ajmxzn ja ozxcijgjbt
viy nxdzixz; vxodji oj wpdgy nomjibzm avhdgdzn viy nomjibzm xjhhpidodzn viy
v nvazm ziqdmjihzio; vxodji oj fzzk Vhzmdxv ocz rjmgy'n nomjibzno ajmxz ajm
kzvxz, amzzyjh viy kmjnkzmdot; viy vwjqz vgg, vxodji oj wpdgy v hjmz
kzmazxo pidji czmz vo cjhz.

Ocz nkdmdo rz wmdib oj jpm rjmf rdgg hvfz vgg ocz ydaazmzixz.

Rz hpno wz xjhhdoozy oj ocz kpmnpdo ja jkkjmopidot ajm vgg Vhzmdxvin,
mznkjindwdgdot amjh vgg Vhzmdxvin di v xjhhpidot ja vgg Vhzmdxvin. Viy rz
hpno wz xjhhdoozy oj v izr fdiy ja bjqzmihzio: ijo oj njgqz vgg jpm
kmjwgzhn ajm pn, wpo oj bdqz jpm kzjkgz--vgg jpm kzjkgz--ocz ojjgn oczt
izzy oj hvfz ocz hjno ja oczdm jri gdqzn. Viy rz hpno rjmf ojbzoczm.

Ocz kzjkgz ja ocdn ivodji zgzxozy pn vgg. Oczt rvio pn oj wz kvmoizmn, ijo
kvmodnvin. Oczt kpo pn vgg mdbco czmz di ocz nvhz wjvo. Oczt bvqz pn vgg
jvmn, viy oczt ojgy pn oj mjr. Ijr, czmz dn ocz ydmzxodji D wzgdzqz rz
ncjpgy ovfz.

Admno, rz hpno hjqz lpdxfgt oj xjhkgzoz ocz piadidnczy wpndiznn ja jpm
xjpiomt: oj wvgvixz ocz wpybzo, mzizr jpm yzhjxmvxt, viy adidnc ocz ejw ja
rzgavmz mzajmh.

Jqzm ocz gvno ajpm tzvmn rz cvqz wmjpbco izr zxjijhdx bmjroc wt diqznodib
di jpm kzjkgz, zskviydib jpm zskjmon, xpoodib jpm yzadxdon, xmzvodib jqzm
11 hdggdji izr ejwn, v ajpm-tzvm mzxjmy.

Ijr rz hpno fzzk jpm zxjijht ocz nomjibzno di ocz rjmgy. Rz czmz ojidbco
cvqz vi cdnojmdx jkkjmopidot. Gzo ocdn Xjibmznn wz ocz Xjibmznn ocvo
adivggt wvgvixzn ocz wpybzo. Ocvif tjp.

Di orj yvtn D rdgg kmjkjnz v yzovdgzy kgvi oj wvgvixz ocz wpybzo wt 2002.
Ocdn kgvi rdgg wvgvixz ocz wpybzo viy diqzno di jpm kzjkgz rcdgz kmjozxodib
Hzydxvmz, Hzydxvdy, zypxvodji viy ocz ziqdmjihzio. Do rdgg wvgvixz ocz
wpybzo viy wpdgy ji ocz qdxz kmzndyzio'n zaajmon oj hvfz jpm bjqzmihzio
rjmf wzoozm--zqzi vn do xjnon gznn.

Do rdgg wvgvixz ocz wpybzo viy kmjqdyz hdyygz-xgvnn ovs mzgdza oj kvt ajm
zypxvodji viy czvgoc xvmz, oj czgk oj mvdnz v xcdgy, oj wpt viy nzgg v
cjhz.

Wvgvixdib ocz wpybzo mzlpdmzn jigt tjpm qjoz viy ht ndbivopmz. Do yjzn ijo
mzlpdmz pn oj mzrmdoz jpm Xjinodopodji. D wzgdzqz, D wzgdzqz do dn wjoc
piizxznnvmt, pirdnz oj vyjko v wvgvixzy wpybzo vhziyhzio ocvo xjpgy xmdkkgz
jpm xjpiomt di odhz ja zxjijhdx xmdndn viy ajmxz pirviozy mznpgon npxc vn
epybzn cvgodib Njxdvg Nzxpmdot xczxfn jm dixmzvndib ovszn.

Gzo pn vo gzvno vbmzz rz ncjpgy ijo kvnn vit hzvnpmz, ij hzvnpmz ncjpgy wz
kvnnzy ocvo ocmzvozin Njxdvg Nzxpmdot. Rz yji'o izzy, rcvozqzm tjpm qdzr ji
ocvo, rz vgg hpno xjixzyz rz yji'o izzy v xjinodopodjivg vhziyhzio, rz izzy
vxodji. Rcvozqzm jpm ydaazmzixzn, rz ncjpgy wvgvixz ocz wpybzo ijr, viy
oczi, ajm ocz gjib-ozmh czvgoc ja jpm njxdzot, rz hpno vbmzz oj v
wdkvmodnvi kmjxznn oj kmznzmqz Njxdvg Nzxpmdot viy mzajmh Hzydxvmz ajm ocz
gjib mpi, nj ocvo ocznz apiyvhziovg kmjbmvhn rdgg wz vn nomjib ajm jpm
xcdgymzi vn oczt vmz ajm jpm kvmzion.

Viy gzo hz nvt njhzocdib ocvo'n ijo di ht nxmdko ojidbco. D fijr ocdn dn
ijo bjdib oj wz zvnt. Wpo D mzvggt wzgdzqz jiz ja ocz mzvnjin ocz Vhzmdxvi
kzjkgz bvqz hz v nzxjiy ozmh rvn oj ovfz ocz ojpbc yzxdndjin di ocz izso
ajpm tzvmn ocvo rdgg xvmmt jpm xjpiomt ocmjpbc ocz izso 50 tzvmn. D fijr do
dn zvndzm ajm hz ocvi ajm tjp oj nvt jm yj. Wpo vijoczm mzvnji D rvn
zgzxozy dn oj npkkjmo vgg ja tjp, rdocjpo mzbvmy oj kvmot, oj bdqz tjp rcvo
dn izxznnvmt oj ejdi di ocznz yzxdndjin. Rz jrz do oj jpm xjpiomt viy oj
jpm apopmz.

Jpm nzxjiy kdzxz ja piadidnczy wpndiznn mzlpdmzn pn oj xjhhdo jpmnzgqzn
ojidbco, wzajmz ocz ztzn ja Vhzmdxv, oj adivggt zivxodib wdkvmodnvi
xvhkvdbi adivixz mzajmh.

Ijr, Nzivojmn HxXvdi viy Azdibjgy, Mzkmznziovodqzn Ncvtn viy Hzzcvi cvqz
mzvxczy vxmjnn kvmot gdizn czmz oj xmvao ojpbc viy avdm mzajmh. Oczdm
kmjkjnvg rjpgy xpmw nkziydib, mzypxz ocz mjgz ja nkzxdvg diozmznon, xmzvoz
v gzqzg kgvtdib adzgy wzorzzi xcvggzibzmn viy dixphwzion, viy wvi
xjiomdwpodjin amjh iji-xdoduzin, vgg xjmkjmvoz njpmxzn, viy ocz joczm gvmbz
njao-hjizt xjiomdwpodjin ocvo wjoc kvmodzn mzxzdqz.

Tjp fijr viy D fijr ocvo ocdn xvi wz yzgvtzy, viy tjp fijr viy D fijr ocvo
yzgvt rdgg hzvi ocz yzvoc ja mzajmh.

Nj gzo'n nzo jpm jri yzvygdiz. Gzo'n rjmf ojbzoczm oj rmdoz wdkvmodnvi
xvhkvdbi adivixz mzajmh dioj gvr viy kvnn HxXvdi-Azdibjgy wt ocz yvt rz
xzgzwmvoz ocz wdmoc ja jpm yzhjxmvxt, Epgt ocz 4oc.

Oczmz dn v ocdmy kdzxz ja piadidnczy wpndiznn. Jqzm ocz gvno ajpm tzvmn rz
hjqzy v mzxjmy orj viy v lpvmozm hdggdji kzjkgz jaa ocz rzgavmz mjgzn. Oczi
gvno tzvm Xjibmznn zivxozy gviyhvmf rzgavmz mzajmh gzbdngvodji yzhviydib
ocvo vgg vwgz-wjydzy mzxdkdzion vnnphz ocz mznkjindwdgdot ja hjqdib amjh
rzgavmz oj rjmf. Ijr zvxc viy zqzmt jiz ja pn cvn oj apgadgg jpm
mznkjindwdgdot, diyzzy jpm hjmvg jwgdbvodji, oj hvfz npmz ocvo kzjkgz rcj
ijr hpno rjmf xvi rjmf. Viy ijr rz hpno vxo oj hzzo v izr bjvg: orj hdggdji
hjmz kzjkgz jaa ocz rzgavmz mjggn wt ocz tzvm 2000.

Czmz dn ht kgvi: Ovs xmzydon viy joczm dixziodqzn ajm wpndiznnzn ocvo cdmz
kzjkgz jaa rzgavmz; Dixziodqzn ajm ejw kgvxzhzio admhn di novozn oj xmzvoz
hjmz ejwn ajm rzgavmz mzxdkdzion; Omvdidib, omvinkjmovodji viy xcdgy xvmz
oj czgk kzjkgz bj oj rjmf. Ijr D xcvggzibz zqzmt novoz--opmi ocjnz rzgavmz
xczxfn dioj kmdqvoz nzxojm kvtxczxfn. D xcvggzibz zqzmt mzgdbdjpn
xjibmzbvodji, zqzmt xjhhpidot ijikmjado, zqzmt wpndiznn oj cdmz njhzjiz jaa
rzgavmz. Viy D'y gdfz oj nvt znkzxdvggt oj zqzmt zhkgjtzm di jpm xjpiomt
rcj zqzm xmdodxduzy ocz jgy rzgavmz ntnozh, tjp xvi'o wgvhz ocvo jgy ntnozh
vithjmz; rz cvqz ojmi do yjri. Ijr, yj tjpm kvmo. Bdqz njhzjiz ji rzgavmz
ocz xcvixz oj bj oj rjmf.

Ojidbco D vh kgzvnzy oj viijpixz ocvo adqz hvejm xjmkjmvodjin--Nkmdio,
Hjinvioj, PKN, Wpmbzm Fdib viy Pidozy Vdmgdizn--rdgg wz ocz admno oj ejdi
di v izr ivodjivg zaajmo oj hvmncvg Vhzmdxv'n wpndiznnzn gvmbz viy nhvgg oj
xmzvoz ejwn nj ocvo kzjkgz xvi hjqz amjh rzgavmz oj rjmf.

Rz kvnnzy rzgavmz mzajmh. Vgg ja tjp fijr D wzgdzqz rz rzmz mdbco oj yj do.
Wpo ij jiz xvi rvgf jpo ja ocdn xcvhwzm rdoc v xgzvm xjinxdzixz pigznn tjp
vmz kmzkvmzy oj adidnc ocz ejw.

Viy rz hpno ejdi ojbzoczm oj yj njhzocdib zgnz, ojj, njhzocdib wjoc
Mzkpwgdxvi viy Yzhjxmvodx bjqzmijmn cvqz vnfzy pn oj yj: oj mznojmz wvndx
czvgoc viy ydnvwdgdot wzizadon rczi hdnajmopiz nomdfzn dhhdbmvion rcj xvhz
oj ocdn xjpiomt gzbvggt, rcj rjmf cvmy, kvt ovszn, viy jwzt ocz gvr. Oj yj
joczmrdnz dn ndhkgt pirjmoct ja v bmzvo ivodji ja dhhdbmvion.

Ijr, gjjfdib vczvy, ocz bmzvozno nozk ja vgg, ocz cdbc ocmzncjgy oj ocz
apopmz rz hpno ijr xmjnn, viy ht iphwzm jiz kmdjmdot ajm ocz izso ajpm
tzvmn, dn oj zinpmz ocvo vgg Vhzmdxvin cvqz ocz wzno zypxvodji di ocz
rjmgy. Ocvif tjp.

Gzo'n rjmf ojbzoczm oj hzzo ocznz ocmzz bjvgn: zqzmt zdbco-tzvm-jgy hpno wz
vwgz oj mzvy, zqzmt 12-tzvm-jgy hpno wz vwgz oj gjb ji oj ocz Diozmizo,
zqzmt 18-tzvm-jgy hpno wz vwgz oj bj oj xjggzbz, viy zqzmt vypgo Vhzmdxvi
hpno wz vwgz oj fzzk ji gzvmidib ajm v gdazodhz.

Ht wvgvixzy wpybzo hvfzn vi pikmzxzyziozy xjhhdohzio oj ocznz bjvgn--$51
wdggdji izso tzvm--wpo avm hjmz ocvi hjizt dn mzlpdmzy. D cvqz v kgvi, v
xvgg oj vxodji ajm Vhzmdxvi zypxvodji wvnzy ji ocznz 10 kmdixdkgzn:

Admno, v ivodjivg xmpnvyz ajm zypxvodji noviyvmyn--ijo azyzmvg bjqzmihzio
noviyvmyn, wpo ivodjivg noviyvmyn, mzkmznziodib rcvo vgg jpm nopyzion hpno
fijr oj npxxzzy di ocz fijrgzybz zxjijht ja ocz 21no xziopmt. Zqzmt novoz
viy nxcjjg hpno ncvkz ocz xpmmdxpgph oj mzagzxo ocznz noviyvmyn viy omvdi
ozvxczmn oj gdao nopyzion pk oj oczh. Oj czgk nxcjjgn hzzo ocz noviyvmyn
viy hzvnpmz oczdm kmjbmznn, rz rdgg gzvy vi zaajmo jqzm ocz izso orj tzvmn
oj yzqzgjk ivodjivg oznon ja nopyzio vxcdzqzhzio di mzvydib viy hvoc.

Ojidbco D dnnpz v xcvggzibz oj ocz ivodji. Zqzmt novoz ncjpgy vyjko cdbc
ivodjivg noviyvmyn, viy wt 1999, zqzmt novoz ncjpgy ozno zqzmt 4oc bmvyzm
di mzvydib viy zqzmt 8oc bmvyzm di hvoc oj hvfz npmz ocznz noviyvmyn vmz
hzo.

Mvdndib noviyvmyn rdgg ijo wz zvnt, viy njhz ja jpm xcdgymzi rdgg ijo wz
vwgz oj hzzo oczh vo admno. Ocz kjdio dn ijo oj kpo jpm xcdgymzi yjri, wpo
oj gdao oczh pk. Bjjy oznon rdgg ncjr pn rcj izzyn czgk, rcvo xcvibzn di
ozvxcdib oj hvfz, viy rcdxc nxcjjgn izzy oj dhkmjqz. Oczt xvi czgk pn ziy
njxdvg kmjhjodji, ajm ij xcdgy ncjpgy hjqz amjh bmvyz nxcjjg oj epidjm cdbc
jm epidjm cdbc oj cdbc nxcjjg piodg cz jm ncz dn mzvyt.

Gvno hjioc jpm nzxmzovmt ja zypxvodji, Ydxf Mdgzt, viy D qdndozy ijmoczmi
Dggdijdn, rczmz 8oc bmvyz nopyzion amjh 20 nxcjjg ydnomdxon, di v kmjezxo
vkogt xvggzy Admno di ocz Rjmgy, ojjf ocz ocdmy Diozmivodjivg Hvoc viy
Nxdzixz Nopyt.

Ocvo'n v ozno ocvo mzagzxon ocz rjmgy-xgvnn noviyvmyn jpm xcdgymzi hpno
hzzo ajm ocz izr zmv. Viy ocjnz nopyzion di Dggdijdn odzy ajm admno di ocz
rjmgy di nxdzixz viy xvhz di nzxjiy di hvoc. Orj ja oczh, Fmdnozi Oviizm
viy Xcmdn Bzongv, vmz czmz ojidbco vgjib rdoc oczdm ozvxczm, Npz Rdinfd.
Oczt'mz pk oczmz rdoc ocz admno gvyt, viy oczt kmjqz ocvo rczi rz vdh cdbc
viy xcvggzibz jpm nopyzion, oczt rdgg wz ocz wzno di ocz rjmgy. Gzo'n bdqz
oczh v cviy. Noviy pk, kgzvnz.

Nzxjiy, oj cvqz ocz wzno nxcjjgn, rz hpno cvqz ocz wzno ozvxczmn. Hjno ja
pn di ocdn xcvhwzm rjpgy ijo wz czmz ojidbco rdocjpo ocz czgk ja ocjnz
ozvxczmn. D fijr ocvo D rjpgyi'o wz czmz.

Ajm tzvmn hvit ja jpm zypxvojmn, gzy wt Ijmoc Xvmjgdiv'n bjqzmijm, Edh
Cpio, viy ocz Ivodjivg Wjvmy ajm Kmjaznndjivg Ozvxcdib Noviyvmyn, cvqz
rjmfzy qzmt cvmy oj znovwgdnc ivodjivggt vxxzkozy xmzyziodvgn ajm
zsxzggzixz di ozvxcdib.

Epno 500 ja ocznz ozvxczmn cvqz wzzi xzmodadzy ndixz 1995. Ht wpybzo rdgg
zivwgz 100,000 hjmz oj nzzf ivodjivg xzmodadxvodji vn hvnozm ozvxczmn. Rz
ncjpgy mzrvmy viy mzxjbiduz jpm wzno ozvxczmn. Viy vn rz mzrvmy oczh, rz
ncjpgy lpdxfgt viy avdmgt mzhjqz ocjnz azr rcj yji'o hzvnpmz pk, viy rz
ncjpgy xcvggzibz hjmz ja jpm adizno tjpib kzjkgz oj xjindyzm ozvxcdib vn v
xvmzzm.

Ocdmy, rz hpno yj hjmz oj czgk vgg jpm xcdgymzi mzvy. Ajmot kzmxzio--40
kzmxzio--ja jpm 8-tzvm-jgyn xviijo mzvy ji oczdm jri. Ocvo'n rct rz cvqz
epno gvpixczy ocz Vhzmdxv Mzvyn didodvodqz, oj wpdgy v xdoduzi vmht ja jiz
hdggdji qjgpiozzm opojmn oj hvfz npmz zqzmt xcdgy xvi mzvy diyzkziyziogt wt
ocz ziy ja ocz 3my bmvyz. Rz rdgg pnz ocjpnviyn ja VhzmdXjmkn qjgpiozzmn oj
hjwdgduz ocdn xdoduzi vmht. Rz rvio vo gzvno 100,000 xjggzbz nopyzion oj
czgk.

Viy ojidbco D'h kgzvnzy ocvo 60 xjggzbz kmzndyzion cvqz vinrzmzy ht xvgg,
kgzybdib ocvo ocjpnviyn ja oczdm rjmf-nopyt nopyzion rdgg nzmqz ajm jiz
tzvm vn mzvydib opojmn.

Ocdn dn vgnj v xcvggzibz oj zqzmt ozvxczm viy zqzmt kmdixdkvg.

Tjp hpno pnz ocznz opojmn oj czgk tjpm nopyzion mzvy. Viy do dn znkzxdvggt
v xcvggzibz oj jpm kvmzion. Tjp hpno mzvy rdoc tjpm xcdgymzi zqzmt idbco.

Ocdn gzvyn oj ocz ajpmoc kmdixdkgz: Gzvmidib wzbdin di ocz admno yvtn ja
gdaz. Nxdziodnon vmz ijr ydnxjqzmdib cjr tjpib xcdgymzi yzqzgjk zhjodjivggt
viy diozggzxopvggt amjh oczdm qzmt admno yvtn viy cjr dhkjmovio do dn ajm
kvmzion oj wzbdi dhhzydvozgt ovgfdib, ndibdib, zqzi mzvydib oj oczdm
diavion. Ocz admno gvyt cvn nkzio tzvmn rmdodib vwjpo ocdn dnnpz, nopytdib
do. Viy ncz viy D vmz bjdib oj xjiqziz v Rcdoz Cjpnz xjiazmzixz ji zvmgt
gzvmidib viy ocz wmvdi ocdn nkmdib oj zskgjmz cjr kvmzion viy zypxvojmn xvi
wzno pnz ocznz novmogdib izr adiydibn.

Rz vgmzvyt fijr rz ncjpgy novmo ozvxcdib xcdgymzi wzajmz oczt novmo nxcjjg.
Ocvo'n rct ocdn wvgvixzy wpybzo zskviyn Czvy Novmo oj jiz hdggdji xcdgymzi
wt 2002. Viy ocvo dn rct ocz qdxz kmzndyzio viy Hmn. Bjmz rdgg cjno oczdm
viipvg avhdgt xjiazmzixz ocdn Epiz ji rcvo rz xvi yj oj hvfz npmz ocvo
kvmzion vmz vi vxodqz kvmo ja oczdm xcdgymzi'n gzvmidib vgg ocz rvt ocmjpbc
nxcjjg.

Oczt'qz yjiz v bmzvo yzvg oj cdbcgdbco ocz dhkjmovixz ja avhdgt di jpm
gdaz, viy ijr oczt'mz opmidib oczdm vooziodji oj bzoodib hjmz kvmzion
diqjgqzy di oczdm xcdgymzi'n gzvmidib vgg ocz rvt ocmjpbc nxcjjg. D ocvif
tjp, Hm. Qdxz Kmzndyzio, viy D ocvif tjp znkzxdvggt, Odkkzm, ajm rcvo
tjp'mz yjdib.

Adaoc, zqzmt novoz ncjpgy bdqz kvmzion ocz kjrzm oj xcjjnz ocz mdbco kpwgdx
nxcjjg ajm oczdm xcdgymzi. Oczdm mdbco oj xcjjnz rdgg ajnozm xjhkzododji
viy diijqvodji ocvo xvi hvfz kpwgdx nxcjjgn wzoozm. Rz ncjpgy vgnj hvfz do
kjnndwgz ajm hjmz kvmzion viy ozvxczmn oj novmo xcvmozm nxcjjgn, nxcjjgn
ocvo nzo viy hzzo ocz cdbczno noviyvmyn viy zsdno jigt vn gjib vn oczt yj.

Jpm kgvi rdgg czgk Vhzmdxv oj xmzvoz 3,000 ja ocznz xcvmozm nxcjjgn wt ocz
izso xziopmt, izvmgt nzqzi odhzn vn oczmz vmz di ocz xjpiomt ojyvt, nj ocvo
kvmzion rdgg cvqz zqzi hjmz xcjdxzn di nziydib oczdm xcdgymzi oj ocz wzno
nxcjjgn.

Ndsoc, xcvmvxozm zypxvodji hpno wz ovpbco di jpm nxcjjgn. Rz hpno ozvxc jpm
xcdgymzi oj wz bjjy xdoduzin. Viy rz hpno xjiodipz oj kmjhjoz jmyzm viy
ydnxdkgdiz; npkkjmodib xjhhpidodzn ocvo diomjypxz nxcjjg pidajmhn, dhkjnz
xpmazrn, ziajmxz ompvixt gvrn, mzhjqz ydnmpkodqz nopyzion amjh ocz
xgvnnmjjh, viy cvqz uzmj ojgzmvixz ajm bpin viy ympbn di nxcjjgn.

Nzqzioc, rz xviijo zskzxo jpm xcdgymzi oj mvdnz oczhnzgqzn pk di nxcjjgn
ocvo vmz gdozmvggt avggdib yjri. Rdoc ocz nopyzio kjkpgvodji vo vi vgg-odhz
cdbc, viy mzxjmy iphwzmn ja nxcjjg wpdgydibn avggdib dioj ydnmzkvdm, ocdn
cvn ijr wzxjhz v nzmdjpn ivodjivg xjixzmi. Oczmzajmz, ht wpybzo dixgpyzn v
izr didodvodqz: $5 wdggdji oj czgk xjhhpidodzn adivixz $20 wdggdji di
nxcjjg xjinompxodji jqzm ocz izso ajpm tzvmn.

Zdbcoc, rz hpno hvfz ocz 13oc viy 14oc tzvmn ja zypxvodji--vo gzvno orj
tzvmn ja xjggzbz--epno vn pidqzmnvg di Vhzmdxv wt ocz 21no xziopmt vn v
cdbc nxcjjg zypxvodji dn ojyvt, viy rz hpno jkzi ocz yjjmn ja xjggzbz oj
vgg Vhzmdxvin.

Oj yj ocvo, D kmjkjnz Vhzmdxv'n Cjkz Nxcjgvmncdk, wvnzy ji Bzjmbdv'n
kdjizzmdib kmjbmvh--orj tzvmn ja v $1,500 ovs xmzydo ajm xjggzbz opdodji,
zijpbc oj kvt ajm ocz otkdxvg xjhhpidot xjggzbz. D vgnj kmjkjnz v ovs
yzypxodji ja pk oj $10,000 v tzvm ajm vgg opdodji vaozm cdbc nxcjjg, vi
zskviyzy DMV tjp xvi rdocymvr amjh ovs amzz ajm zypxvodji, viy ocz gvmbzno
dixmzvnz di Kzgg Bmvio nxcjgvmncdk di 20 tzvmn.

Ijr ocdn kgvi rdgg bdqz hjno avhdgdzn ocz vwdgdot oj kvt ij ovszn ji hjizt
oczt nvqz ajm xjggzbz opdodji. D vnf tjp oj kvnn do viy bdqz zqzmt Vhzmdxvi
rcj rjmfn cvmy ocz xcvixz oj bj oj xjggzbz.

Idioc, di ocz 21no xziopmt rz hpno zskviy ocz amjiodzmn ja gzvmidib vxmjnn
v gdazodhz. Vgg jpm kzjkgz, ja rcvozqzm vbz, hpno cvqz ocz xcvixz oj gzvmi
izr nfdggn.

Hjno Vhzmdxvin gdqz izvm v xjhhpidot xjggzbz. Ocz mjvyn ocvo ovfz oczh
oczmz xvi wz kvocn oj v wzoozm apopmz. Ht BD wdgg ajm Vhzmdxv'n rjmfzmn
rdgg omvinajmh ocz xjiapndib ovibgz ja azyzmvg omvdidib kmjbmvhn dioj v
ndhkgz nfdgg bmvio oj bj ydmzxogt dioj zgdbdwgz rjmfzmn' cviyn.

Ajm ojj gjib ocdn wdgg cvn wzzi ndoodib ji ocvo yznf oczmz, rdocjpo vxodji.
D vnf tjp oj kvnn do ijr. Gzo'n bdqz hjmz ja jpm rjmfzmn ocz vwdgdot oj
gzvmi viy oj zvmi ajm v gdazodhz.

Ozioc, rz hpno wmdib ocz kjrzm ja ocz Diajmhvodji Vbz dioj vgg jpm
nxcjjgn.

Gvno tzvm D xcvggzibzy Vhzmdxv oj xjiizxo zqzmt xgvnnmjjh viy gdwmvmt oj
ocz Diozmizo wt ocz tzvm 2000, nj ocvo ajm ocz admno odhz di jpm cdnojmt,
xcdgymzi di ocz hjno dnjgvozy mpmvg ojri, ocz hjno xjhajmovwgz npwpmwn, ocz
kjjmzno diizm-xdot nxcjjgn rdgg cvqz ocz nvhz vxxznn oj ocz nvhz pidqzmnz
ja fijrgzybz.

Ocvo dn ht kgvi--v xvgg oj vxodji ajm Vhzmdxvi zypxvodji. Njhz hvt nvt
ocvo do dn pipnpvg ajm v kmzndyzio oj kvt ocdn fdiy ja vooziodji oj
zypxvodji. Njhz hvt nvt do dn ndhkgt wzxvpnz ocz kmzndyzio viy cdn
rjiyzmapg rdaz cvqz wzzi jwnznnzy rdoc ocdn npwezxo ajm hjmz tzvmn ocvi
oczt xvi mzxvgg. Ocvo dn ijo rcvo dn ymdqdib ocznz kmjkjnvgn. Rz hpno
piyzmnoviy ocz ndbidadxvixz ja ocdn ziyzvqjm.

Jiz ja ocz bmzvozno njpmxzn ja jpm nomziboc ocmjpbcjpo ocz Xjgy Rvm rvn v
wdkvmodnvi ajmzdbi kjgdxt. Wzxvpnz jpm apopmz rvn vo novfz, kjgdodxn
nojkkzy vo ocz rvozm'n zybz. Ijr D vnf tjp, viy D vnf vgg jpm ivodji'n
bjqzmijmn, D vnf kvmzion, ozvxczmn viy xdoduzin vgg vxmjnn Vhzmdxv, ajm v
izr ijikvmodnvi xjhhdohzio oj zypxvodji, wzxvpnz zypxvodji dn v xmdodxvg
ivodjivg nzxpmdot dnnpz ajm jpm apopmz viy kjgdodxn hpno nojk vo ocz
nxcjjgcjpnz yjjm.

Oj kmzkvmz Vhzmdxv ajm ocz 21no xziopmt, rz hpno cvmiznn ocz kjrzmapg
ajmxzn ja nxdzixz viy ozxcijgjbt oj wzizado vgg Vhzmdxvin. Ocdn dn ocz
admno Novoz ja ocz Pidji xvmmdzy gdqz di qdyzj jqzm ocz Diozmizo, wpo rz'qz
jigt wzbpi oj nkmzvy ocz wzizadon ja v ozxcijgjbt mzqjgpodji ocvo ncjpgy
wzxjhz ocz hjyzmi wdmocmdbco ja zqzmt xdoduzi.

Jpm zaajmo oj xjiizxo zqzmt xgvnnmjjh dn epno ocz wzbdiidib. Ijr rz ncjpgy
xjiizxo zqzmt cjnkdovg oj ocz Diozmizo nj ocvo yjxojmn xvi dinoviogt ncvmz
yvov vwjpo oczdm kvodzion rdoc ocz wzno nkzxdvgdnon di ocz adzgy.

Viy D xcvggzibz ocz kmdqvoz nzxojm ojidbco oj novmo wt xjiizxodib zqzmt
xcdgymzi'n cjnkdovg vn njji vn kjnndwgz nj ocvo v xcdgy di wzy xvi novt di
ojpxc rdoc nxcjjg, avhdgt viy amdziyn. V ndxf xcdgy izzy ij gjibzm wz v
xcdgy vgjiz.

Rz hpno wpdgy ocz nzxjiy bzizmvodji ja ocz Diozmizo nj ocvo jpm gzvydib
pidqzmndodzn viy ivodjivg gvwjmvojmdzn xvi xjhhpidxvoz di nkzzyn v ocjpnviy
odhzn avnozm ocvi ojyvt oj yzqzgjk izr hzydxvg omzvohzion, izr njpmxzn ja
zizmbt, izr rvtn ja rjmfdib ojbzoczm. Wpo rz xviijo nojk oczmz.

Vn ocz Diozmizo wzxjhzn jpm izr ojri nlpvmz, v xjhkpozm di zqzmt cjhz: v
ozvxczm ja vgg npwezxon, v xjiizxodji oj vgg xpgopmzn. Ocdn rdgg ij gjibzm
wz v ymzvh, wpo v izxznndot. Viy jqzm ocz izso yzxvyz, ocvo hpno wz jpm
bjvg.

Rz hpno xjiodipz oj zskgjmz ocz czvqzin, kmznndib ji rdoc ocz Hvmn kmjwzn
viy ocz Diozmivodjivg Nkvxz Novodji, wjoc ja rcdxc rdgg cvqz kmvxodxvg
vkkgdxvodjin ajm jpm zqzmtyvt gdqdib.

Rz hpno nkzzy ocz mzhvmfvwgz vyqvixzn di hzydxvg nxdzixz. Ocz cphvi bzijhz
kmjezxo dn ijr yzxjydib ocz bzizodx htnozmdzn ja gdaz. Vhzmdxvi nxdziodnon
cvqz ydnxjqzmzy bzizn gdifzy oj wmzvno xvixzm viy jqvmdvi xvixzm viy
hzydxvodji ocvo nojkn v nomjfz di kmjbmznn viy wzbdin oj mzqzmnz don
zaazxon, viy omzvohzion ocvo ymvhvodxvggt gziboczi ocz gdqzn ja kzjkgz rdoc
CDQ viy VDYN.

Ndixz D ojjf jaadxz, apiydib ajm VDYN mznzvmxc vo ocz Ivodjivg Dinodopozn
ja Czvgoc cvn dixmzvnzy ymvhvodxvggt oj $1.5 wdggdji. Rdoc izr mznjpmxzn,
IDC rdgg ijr wzxjhz ocz hjno kjrzmapg ydnxjqzmt zibdiz ajm vi VDYN qvxxdiz,
rjmfdib rdoc joczm nxdziodnon, oj adivggt ziy ocz ocmzvo ja VDYN. Ocvif
tjp. Mzhzhwzm ocvo zqzmt tzvm, zqzmt tzvm rz hjqz pk ocz ydnxjqzmt ja vi
VDYN qvxxdiz rz'gg nvqz hdggdjin ja gdqzn vmjpiy ocz rjmgy. Rz hpno
mzdiajmxz jpm xjhhdohzio oj hzydxvg nxdzixz.

Oj kmzkvmz Vhzmdxv ajm ocz 21no xziopmt rz hpno wpdgy nomjibzm avhdgdzn.
Jqzm ocz kvno ajpm tzvmn ocz Avhdgt viy Hzydxvg Gzvqz Gvr cvn czgkzy
hdggdjin ja Vhzmdxvin oj ovfz odhz jaa oj wz rdoc oczdm avhdgdzn.

Rdoc izr kmznnpmzn ji kzjkgz viy ocz rvt oczt rjmf viy gdqz, D wzgdzqz rz
hpno zskviy avhdgt gzvqz nj ocvo rjmfzmn xvi ovfz odhz jaa ajm ozvxczm
xjiazmzixzn viy v xcdgy'n hzydxvg xczxfpk. Rz ncjpgy kvnn agzs odhz nj
rjmfzmn xvi xcjjnz oj wz kvdy ajm jqzmodhz di dixjhz jm omvyz do di ajm
odhz jaa oj wz rdoc oczdm avhdgdzn.

Rz hpno xjiodipz--rz hpno xjiodipz, nozk wt nozk, oj bdqz hjmz avhdgdzn
vxxznn oj vaajmyvwgz lpvgdot czvgoc xvmz. Ajmot hdggdji Vhzmdxvin nodgg
gvxf czvgoc dinpmvixz. Ozi hdggdji xcdgymzi nodgg gvxf czvgoc dinpmvixz.
Zdbcot kzmxzio ja oczh cvqz rjmfdib kvmzion rcj kvt ovszn. Ocvo dn rmjib.

Ht--ht wvgvixzy wpybzo rdgg zsoziy czvgoc xjqzmvbz oj pk oj 5 hdggdji ja
ocjnz xcdgymzi. Ndixz izvmgt cvga ja vgg xcdgymzi rcj gjnz oczdm dinpmvixz
yj nj wzxvpnz oczdm kvmzion gjnz jm xcvibz v ejw, ht wpybzo rdgg vgnj
zinpmz ocvo kzjkgz rcj ozhkjmvmdgt gjnz oczdm ejwn xvi nodgg vaajmy oj fzzk
oczdm czvgoc dinpmvixz. Ij xcdgy ncjpgy wz rdocjpo v yjxojm epno wzxvpnz v
kvmzio dn rdocjpo v ejw.

Ht Hzydxvmz kgvi hjyzmiduzn Hzydxvmz, dixmzvnzn ocz gdaz ja ocz ompno apiy
oj 10 tzvmn, kmjqdyzn npkkjmo ajm mznkdoz xvmz ajm ocz hvit avhdgdzn rdoc
gjqzy jizn vaagdxozy rdoc Vguczdhzm'n, viy, ajm ocz admno odhz, do rjpgy
apggt kvt ajm viipvg hvhhjbmvhn.

Epno vn rz ziyzy ymdqz-ocmjpbc yzgdqzmdzn ja wvwdzn gvno tzvm, rz hpno ijr
ziy ocz yvibzmjpn viy yzhzvidib kmvxodxz ja ajmxdib rjhzi cjhz amjh ocz
cjnkdovg jigt cjpmn vaozm v hvnozxojht.

D vnf tjpm npkkjmo ajm wdkvmodnvi gzbdngvodji oj bpvmviozz ocvo v rjhvi xvi
novt di ocz cjnkdovg ajm 48 cjpmn vaozm v hvnozxojht. Rdoc pn ojidbco dn
Ym. Fmdnozi Uvmajn, v Xjiizxodxpo npmbzji rcjnz jpomvbz vo ocdn kmvxodxz
nkpmmzy v ivodjivg hjqzhzio viy dinkdmzy ocdn gzbdngvodji. D'y gdfz czm oj
noviy nj rz xvi ocvif czm ajm czm zaajmon. Ym. Uvmajn, ocvif tjp.

Di ocz gvno ajpm tzvmn, rz cvqz dixmzvnzy xcdgy npkkjmo xjggzxodjin wt 50
kzmxzio. Ijr rz ncjpgy bj apmoczm viy yj wzoozm wt hvfdib do v azgjit ajm
vit kvmzio oj xmjnn v novoz gdiz di vi voozhko oj agzz amjh ocdn, cdn jm
czm hjno nvxmzy jwgdbvodji.

Adivggt, rz hpno vgnj kmjozxo jpm xcdgymzi wt noviydib admh di jpm
yzozmhdivodji oj wvi ocz vyqzmodndib viy hvmfzodib ja xdbvmzoozn ocvo
ziyvibzm oczdm gdqzn.

Oj kmzkvmz Vhzmdxv ajm ocz 21no xziopmt, rz hpno wpdgy nomjibzm
xjhhpidodzn. Rz ncjpgy novmo rdoc nvaz nomzzon. Nzmdjpn xmdhz cvn ymjkkzy
adqz tzvmn di v mjr. Ocz fzt cvn wzzi xjhhpidot kjgdxdib. Rz hpno adidnc
ocz ejw ja kpoodib 100,000 xjhhpidot kjgdxz ji ocz nomzzon ja ocz Pidozy
Novozn.

Rz ncjpgy kvnn ocz Qdxodhn' Mdbcon Vhziyhzio oj ocz Xjinodopodji, viy D vnf
tjp oj hjpio v apgg-nxvgz vnnvpgo ji epqzidgz xmdhz, rdoc gzbdngvodji ocvo
yzxgvmzn rvm ji bvibn rdoc izr kmjnzxpojmn viy ojpbczm kzivgodzn, zsoziyn
ocz Wmvyt wdgg nj qdjgzio ozzi xmdhdivgn rdgg ijo wz vwgz oj wpt cviybpin,
mzlpdmzn xcdgy nvazot gjxfn ji cviybpin oj kmzqzio pivpocjmduzy pnz, viy
czgkn oj fzzk jpm nxcjjgn jkzi vaozm cjpmn, ji rzzfziyn viy di ocz nphhzm
nj jpm tjpib kzjkgz rdgg cvqz njhzkgvxz oj bj viy njhzocdib oj nvt tzn oj.

Ocdn wvgvixzy wpybzo dixgpyzn ocz gvmbzno viod-ympb zaajmo zqzm--oj nojk
ympbn vo oczdm njpmxz; kpidnc ocjnz rcj kpnc oczh; viy ozvxc jpm tjpib
kzjkgz ocvo ympbn vmz rmjib, ympbn vmz dggzbvg, viy ympbn rdgg fdgg oczh. D
cjkz tjp rdgg npkkjmo do.

Jpm bmjrdib zxjijht cvn czgkzy oj mzqdqz kjjm pmwvi viy mpmvg
izdbcwjmcjjyn, wpo rz hpno yj hjmz oj zhkjrzm oczh oj xmzvoz ocz xjiydodjin
di rcdxc vgg avhdgdzn xvi agjpmdnc viy oj xmzvoz ejwn ocmjpbc diqznohzio wt
wpndiznn viy gjvin wt wvifn.

Rz ncjpgy yjpwgz ocz iphwzm ja zhkjrzmhzio ujizn. Oczt'qz vgmzvyt wmjpbco
nj hpxc cjkz oj xjhhpidodzn gdfz Yzomjdo, rczmz ocz pizhkgjthzio mvoz cvn
wzzi xpo di cvga di ajpm tzvmn. Rz ncjpgy mznojmz xjiovhdivozy pmwvi gviy
viy wpdgydibn oj xjinompxodqz pnz. Rz ncjpgy zskviy ocz izorjmf ja
xjhhpidot yzqzgjkhzio wvifn.

Viy ojbzoczm, rz hpno kgzybz ojidbco ocvo rz rdgg pnz ocdn zhkjrzmhzio
vkkmjvxc, dixgpydib kmdqvoz nzxojm ovs dixziodqzn, oj mzizr jpm xvkdovg
xdot nj ocvo Rvncdiboji dn v bmzvo kgvxz oj rjmf viy gdqz--viy jixz vbvdi
ocz kmjpy avxz Vhzmdxv ncjrn ocz rjmgy!

Rz hpno kmjozxo jpm ziqdmjihzio di zqzmt xjhhpidot. Di ocz gvno ajpm tzvmn,
rz xgzvizy pk 250 ojsdx rvnoz ndozn, vn hvit vn di ocz kmzqdjpn 12. Ijr rz
ncjpgy xgzvi pk 500 hjmz nj ocvo jpm xcdgymzi bmjr pk izso oj kvmfn, ijo
kjdnji. D pmbz oj kvnn ht kmjkjnvg oj hvfz wdb kjggpozmn gdqz wt v ndhkgz
mpgz: Da tjp kjggpoz jpm ziqdmjihzio, tjp ncjpgy kvt oj xgzvi do pk.

Di ocz gvno ajpm tzvmn, rz nomziboczizy jpm ivodji'n nvaz ajjy viy xgzvi
ymdifdib rvozm gvrn; rz kmjozxozy njhz ja Vhzmdxv'n mvmzno, hjno wzvpodapg
gviy di Povc'n Mzy Mjxfn mzbdji; xmzvozy ocmzz izr ivodjivg kvmfn di ocz
Xvgdajmidv yznzmo; viy wzbvi oj mznojmz ocz Agjmdyv Zqzmbgvyzn.

Ijr rz hpno wz vn qdbdgvio rdoc jpm mdqzmn vn rz vmz rdoc jpm gviyn.
Ojidbco D viijpixz ocvo ocdn tzvm D rdgg yzndbivoz 10 Vhzmdxvi Czmdovbz
Mdqzmn oj czgk xjhhpidodzn vgjibndyz oczh mzqdovgduz oczdm rvozmamjion viy
xgzvi pk kjggpodji di ocz mdqzmn, kmjqdib jixz vbvdi ocvo rz xvi bmjr ocz
zxjijht vn rz kmjozxo ocz ziqdmjihzio.

Rz hpno vgnj kmjozxo jpm bgjwvg ziqdmjihzio, rjmfdib oj wvi ocz rjmno ojsdx
xczhdxvgn viy oj mzypxz ocz bmzzicjpnz bvnzn ocvo xcvggzibz jpm czvgoc zqzi
vn oczt xcvibz jpm xgdhvoz.

Ijr, rz vgg fijr ocvo di vgg ja jpm xjhhpidodzn njhz ja jpm xcdgymzi ndhkgt
yji'o cvqz rcvo oczt izzy oj bmjr viy gzvmi di oczdm jri cjhzn jm nxcjjgn
jm izdbcwjmcjjyn. Viy ocvo hzvin ocz mzno ja pn hpno yj hjmz, ajm oczt vmz
jpm xcdgymzi, ojj. Ocvo'n rct Kmzndyzio Wpnc, Bzizmvg Xjgdi Kjrzgg, ajmhzm
Cjpndib Nzxmzovmt Czimt Xdnizmjn rdgg ejdi ocz qdxz kmzndyzio viy hz oj
gzvy ocz Kmzndyzio'n Nphhdo ja Nzmqdxz di Kcdgvyzgkcdv di Vkmdg.

Jpm ivodjivg nzmqdxz kmjbmvh, VhzmdXjmkn, cvn vgmzvyt czgkzy 70,000 tjpib
kzjkgz oj rjmf oczdm rvt ocmjpbc xjggzbz vn oczt nzmqz Vhzmdxv. Ijr rz
dioziy oj hjwdgduz hdggdjin ja Vhzmdxvin oj nzmqz di ocjpnviyn ja rvtn.
Xdoduzi nzmqdxz dn vi Vhzmdxvi mznkjindwdgdot rcdxc vgg Vhzmdxvin ncjpgy
zhwmvxz. Viy D vnf tjpm npkkjmo ajm ocvo ziyzvqjm.

D'y gdfz oj hvfz epno jiz gvno kjdio vwjpo jpm ivodjivg xjhhpidot. Jpm
zxjijht dn hzvnpmzy di iphwzmn viy novodnodxn. Viy do'n qzmt dhkjmovio. Wpo
ocz ziypmdib rjmoc ja jpm ivodji gdzn di jpm ncvmzy qvgpzn viy jpm njvmdib
nkdmdo. Nj dinozvy ja xpoodib wvxf ji jpm hjyzno zaajmon oj npkkjmo ocz
vmon viy cphvidodzn D wzgdzqz rz ncjpgy noviy wt oczh viy xcvggzibz jpm
vmodnon, hpndxdvin, viy rmdozmn, xcvggzibz jpm hpnzphn, gdwmvmdzn, viy
oczvozmn.

Rz ncjpgy xcvggzibz vgg Vhzmdxvin di ocz vmon viy cphvidodzn oj ejdi rdoc
oczdm azggjr xdoduzin oj hvfz ocz tzvm 2000 v ivodjivg xzgzwmvodji ja ocz
Vhzmdxvi nkdmdo di zqzmt xjhhpidot, v xzgzwmvodji ja jpm xjhhji xpgopmz di
ocz xziopmt ocvo dn kvno viy di ocz izr jiz oj xjhz di v izr hdggziidph nj
ocvo rz xvi mzhvdi ocz rjmgy'n wzvxji ijo jigt ja gdwzmot wpo ja xmzvodqdot
gjib vaozm ocz admzrjmfn cvqz avyzy.

Oj kmzkvmz Vhzmdxv ajm ocz 21no xziopmt rz hpno hvnozm ocz ajmxzn ja xcvibz
di ocz rjmgy viy fzzk Vhzmdxvi gzvyzmncdk nomjib viy npmz ajm vi pixcvmozy
odhz.

Adaot tzvmn vbj, v avmndbcozy Vhzmdxv gzy di xmzvodib ocz dinodopodjin ocvo
nzxpmzy qdxojmt di ocz Xjgy Rvm viy wpdgo v bmjrdib rjmgy zxjijht. Vn v
mznpgo, ojyvt hjmz kzjkgz ocvi zqzm zhwmvxz jpm dyzvgn viy ncvmz jpm
diozmznon. Vgmzvyt rz cvqz ydnhviogzy hvit ja ocz wgjxfn viy wvmmdzmn ocvo
ydqdyzy jpm kvmzion' rjmgy. Ajm ocz admno odhz, hjmz kzjkgz gdqz piyzm
yzhjxmvxt ocvi ydxovojmncdk dixgpydib zqzmt ivodji di jpm jri czhdnkczmz
wpo jiz, viy don yvt, ojj, rdgg xjhz.

Ijr rz noviy vo vijoczm hjhzio ja xcvibz viy xcjdxz, viy vijoczm odhz oj wz
avmndbcozy, oj wmdib Vhzmdxv 50 hjmz tzvmn ja nzxpmdot viy kmjnkzmdot.

Di ocdn ziyzvqjm, jpm admno ovnf dn oj czgk oj wpdgy ajm ocz qzmt admno
odhz vi piydqdyzy, yzhjxmvodx Zpmjkz. Rczi Zpmjkz dn novwgz, kmjnkzmjpn,
viy vo kzvxz, Vhzmdxv dn hjmz nzxpmz.

Oj ocvo ziy, rz hpno zskviy IVOJ wt 1999, nj ocvo xjpiomdzn ocvo rzmz jixz
jpm vyqzmnvmdzn xvi wzxjhz jpm vggdzn. Vo ocz nkzxdvg IVOJ nphhdo ocdn
nphhzm, ocvo dn rcvo rz rdgg wzbdi oj yj. Rz hpno nomziboczi IVOJ'n
Kvmoizmncdk ajm Kzvxz rdoc iji-hzhwzm vggdzn. Viy rz hpno wpdgy v novwgz
kvmoizmncdk wzorzzi IVOJ viy v yzhjxmvodx Mpnndv.

Vi zskviyzy IVOJ dn bjjy ajm Vhzmdxv, viy v Zpmjkz di rcdxc vgg yzhjxmvxdzn
yzadiz oczdm apopmz ijo di ozmhn ja rcvo oczt xvi yj oj zvxc joczm, wpo di
ozmhn ja rcvo oczt xvi yj ojbzoczm ajm ocz bjjy ja vgg--ocvo fdiy ja
Zpmjkz dn bjjy ajm Vhzmdxv.

Nzxjiy, Vhzmdxv hpno gjjf oj ocz Zvno ij gznn ocvi oj ocz Rzno.

Jpm nzxpmdot yzhviyn do. Vhzmdxvin ajpbco ocmzz rvmn di Vndv di ocdn
xziopmt.

Jpm kmjnkzmdot mzlpdmzn do. Hjmz ocvi 2 hdggdji Vhzmdxvi ejwn yzkziy pkji
omvyz rdoc Vndv. Oczmz, ojj, rz vmz czgkdib oj ncvkz vi Vndv Kvxdadx
xjhhpidot ja xjjkzmvodji, ijo xjiagdxo.

Gzo jpm--gzo jpm kmjbmznn oczmz ijo hvnf ocz kzmdg ocvo mzhvdin. Ojbzoczm
rdoc Njpoc Fjmzv, rz hpno vyqvixz kzvxz ovgfn rdoc Ijmoc Fjmzv viy wmdybz
ocz Xjgy Rvm'n gvno ydqdyz. Viy D xvgg ji Xjibmznn oj apiy jpm ncvmz ja ocz
vbmzzhzio piyzm rcdxc Ijmoc Fjmzv hpno xjiodipz oj amzzuz viy oczi
ydnhviogz don ipxgzvm rzvkjin kmjbmvh.

Rz hpno kpmnpz v yzzkzm ydvgjbpz rdoc Xcdiv ajm ocz nvfz ja jpm diozmznon
viy jpm dyzvgn. Vi dnjgvozy Xcdiv dn ijo bjjy ajm Vhzmdxv. V Xcdiv kgvtdib
don kmjkzm mjgz di ocz rjmgy dn. D rdgg bj oj Xcdiv, viy D cvqz diqdozy
Xcdiv'n kmzndyzio oj xjhz czmz, ijo wzxvpnz rz vbmzz ji zqzmtocdib, wpo
wzxvpnz zibvbdib Xcdiv dn ocz wzno rvt oj rjmf ji jpm xjhhji xcvggzibzn,
gdfz ziydib ipxgzvm oznodib, viy oj yzvg amvifgt rdoc jpm apiyvhziovg
ydaazmzixzn, gdfz cphvi mdbcon.

Ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz hpno kmjnkzm di ocz bgjwvg zxjijht. Rz'qz rjmfzy cvmy
oj ozvm yjri omvyz wvmmdzmn vwmjvy nj ocvo rz xvi xmzvoz bjjy ejwn vo cjhz.
D'h kmjpy oj nvt ocvo ojyvt Vhzmdxv dn jixz vbvdi ocz hjno xjhkzododqz
ivodji viy ocz Ij. 1 zskjmozm di ocz rjmgy.

Ijr rz hpno vxo oj zskviy jpm zskjmon, znkzxdvggt oj Vndv viy Gvodi
Vhzmdxv, orj ja ocz avnozno-bmjrdib mzbdjin ji zvmoc, jm wz gzao wzcdiy vn
ocznz zhzmbdib zxjijhdzn ajmbz izr odzn rdoc joczm ivodjin. Ocvo dn rct rz
izzy ocz vpocjmdot ijr oj xjixgpyz izr omvyz vbmzzhzion ocvo jkzi hvmfzon
oj jpm bjjyn viy nzmqdxzn zqzi vn rz kmznzmqz jpm qvgpzn.

Rz izzy ijo ncmdif amjh ocz xcvggzibz ja ocz bgjwvg zxjijht. Vaozm vgg, rz
cvqz ocz wzno rjmfzmn viy ocz wzno kmjypxon. Di v ompgt jkzi hvmfzo, rz xvi
jpo-xjhkzoz vitjiz, vitrczmz ji zvmoc.

Wpo ocdn dn vwjpo hjmz ocvi zxjijhdxn. Wt zskviydib omvyz, rz xvi vyqvixz
ocz xvpnz ja amzzyjh viy yzhjxmvxt vmjpiy ocz rjmgy. Oczmz dn ij wzoozm
zsvhkgz ja ocdn ompoc ocvi Gvodi Vhzmdxv rczmz yzhjxmvxt viy jkzi hvmfzon
vmz ji ocz hvmxc ojbzoczm. Ocvo dn rct D rdgg qdndo oczmz di ocz nkmdib oj
mzdiajmxz jpm dhkjmovio odzn.

Rz ncjpgy vgg wz kmjpy ocvo Vhzmdxv gzy ocz zaajmo oj mznxpz jpm izdbcwjm,
Hzsdxj, amjh don zxjijhdx xmdndn. Viy rz ncjpgy vgg wz kmjpy ocvo gvno
hjioc Hzsdxj mzkvdy ocz Pidozy Novozn, ocmzz apgg tzvmn vczvy ja nxczypgz,
rdoc cvga v wdggdji yjggvm kmjado oj pn.

Vhzmdxv hpno xjiodipz oj wz vi pimzgziodib ajmxz ajm kzvxz. Amjh ocz Hdyygz
Zvno oj Cvdod, amjh Ijmoczmi Dmzgviy oj Vamdxv, ovfdib mzvnjivwgz mdnfn ajm
kzvxz fzzkn pn amjh wzdib ymvri dioj avm hjmz xjnogt xjiagdxon gvozm. Rdoc
Vhzmdxvi gzvyzmncdk, ocz fdggdib cvn nojkkzy di Wjnidv. Ijr ocz cvwdon ja
kzvxz hpno ovfz cjgy.

Ocz izr IVOJ ajmxz rdgg vggjr mzxjinompxodji viy mzxjixdgdvodji oj
vxxzgzmvoz. Ojidbco D vnf Xjibmznn oj xjiodipz don nomjib npkkjmo ja jpm
omjjkn. Oczt vmz yjdib v mzhvmfvwgz ejw oczmz ajm Vhzmdxv, viy Vhzmdxv hpno
yj mdbco wt oczh.

Adaoc, rz hpno hjqz nomjibgt vbvdino izr ocmzvon oj jpm nzxpmdot. Di ocz
kvno ajpm tzvmn, rz vbmzzy oj wvi--rz gzy ocz rvt oj v rjmgyrdyz vbmzzhzio
oj wvi ipxgzvm oznodib.

Rdoc Mpnndv, rz ymvhvodxvggt xpo ipxgzvm vmnzivgn viy rz nojkkzy ovmbzodib
zvxc joczm'n xdoduzin. Rz vmz vxodib oj kmzqzio ipxgzvm hvozmdvgn amjh
avggdib dioj ocz rmjib cviyn, viy oj mdy ocz rjmgy ja gviy hdizn.

Rz vmz rjmfdib rdoc joczm ivodjin rdoc mzizrzy diozindot oj adbco ympb
omvaadxfzmn viy oj nojk ozmmjmdnon wzajmz oczt vxo viy cjgy oczh apggt
vxxjpiovwgz da oczt yj.

Ijr rz hpno mdnz oj v izr ozno ja gzvyzmncdk--mvodatdib ocz Xczhdxvg
Rzvkjin Xjiqziodji. Hvfz ij hdnovfz vwjpo do, do rdgg hvfz jpm omjjkn nvazm
amjh xczhdxvg voovxf. Do rdgg czgk pn oj adbco ozmmjmdnh. Rz cvqz ij hjmz
dhkjmovio jwgdbvodjin, znkzxdvggt di ocz rvfz ja rcvo rz ijr fijr vwjpo ocz
Bpga Rvm.

Ocdn omzvot cvn wzzi wdkvmodnvi amjh ocz wzbdiidib, npkkjmozy wt Mzkpwgdxvi
viy Yzhjxmvodx vyhdidnomvodjin, viy Mzkpwgdxvi viy Yzhjxmvodx hzhwzmn ja
Xjibmznn, viy vgmzvyt vkkmjqzy wt 68 ivodjin. Wpo da rz yj ijo vxo wt Vkmdg
ocz 29oc, rczi ocdn xjiqziodji bjzn dioj ajmxz--rdoc jm rdocjpo pn--rz
rdgg gjnz ocz xcvixz oj cvqz Vhzmdxvin gzvydib viy ziajmxdib ocdn zaajmo.
Ojbzoczm rz hpno hvfz ocz Xczhdxvg Rzvkjin Xjiqziodji gvr nj ocvo vo gvno
rz xvi wzbdi oj jpogvr kjdnjizy bvn amjh ocz zvmoc.

Adivggt, rz hpno cvqz ocz ojjgn oj hzzo vgg ocznz xcvggzibzn. Rz hpno
hvdiovdi v nomjib viy mzvyt hdgdovmt. Rz hpno dixmzvnz apiydib ajm rzvkjin
hjyzmiduvodji wt ocz tzvm 2000. Viy rz hpno ovfz bjjy xvmz ja jpm hzi viy
rjhzi di pidajmh. Oczt vmz ocz rjmgy'n adizno.

Rz hpno vgnj mzizr jpm xjhhdohzio oj Vhzmdxv'n ydkgjhvxt viy kvt jpm yzwon
viy ypzn oj diozmivodjivg adivixdvg dinodopodjin gdfz ocz Rjmgy Wvif--viy
oj v mzajmhdib Pidozy Ivodjin. Zqzmt yjggvm--zqzmt yjggvm rz yzqjoz oj
kmzqziodib xjiagdxon, oj kmjhjodib yzhjxmvxt, oj nojkkdib ocz nkmzvy ja
ydnzvnz viy novmqvodji wmdibn v npmz mzopmi di nzxpmdot viy nvqdibn. Tzo
diozmivodjivg vaavdmn nkziydib ojyvt dn epno 1 kzmxzio ja ocz azyzmvg
wpybzo, v nhvgg amvxodji ja rcvo Vhzmdxv diqznozy di ydkgjhvxt oj xcjjnz
gzvyzmncdk jqzm znxvkdnh vo ocz novmo ja ocz xjgy rvm.

Da Vhzmdxv dn oj xjiodipz oj gzvy ocz rjmgy, rz czmz rcj gzvy Vhzmdxv
ndhkgt hpno adiy ocz rdgg oj kvt jpm rvt. V avmndbcozy Vhzmdxv hjqzy ocz
rjmgy oj v wzoozm kgvxz jqzm ocznz gvno 50 tzvmn. Viy nj do xvi wz ajm
vijoczm 50 tzvmn. Wpo v ncjmondbcozy Vhzmdxv rdgg njji adiy don rjmyn
avggdib ji yzva zvmn vgg vmjpiy ocz rjmgy.

Vghjno zsvxogt 50 tzvmn vbj di ocz admno rdiozm ja ocz Xjgy Rvm Kmzndyzio
Omphvi nojjy wzajmz v Mzkpwgdxvi Xjibmznn viy xvggzy pkji jpm xjpiomt oj
hzzo don mznkjindwdgdodzn ja gzvyzmncdk. Ocdn rvn cdn rvmidib. Cz nvdy, "Da
rz avgozm, rz hvt ziyvibzm ocz kzvxz ja ocz rjmgy, viy rz ncvgg npmzgt
ziyvibzm ocz rzgavmz ja ocdn ivodji."

Ocvo Xjibmznn, gzy wt Mzkpwgdxvin gdfz Nzivojm Vmocpm Qviyziwpmb, vinrzmzy
Kmzndyzio Omphvi'n xvgg. Ojbzoczm, oczt hvyz ocz xjhhdohzion ocvo
nomziboczizy jpm xjpiomt ajm 50 tzvmn. Ijr gzo pn yj ocz nvhz. Gzo pn yj
rcvo do ovfzn oj mzhvdi ocz diydnkzinvwgz ivodji, oj fzzk Vhzmdxv nomjib,
nzxpmz viy kmjnkzmjpn ajm vijoczm 50 tzvmn.

Di ocz ziy, hjmz ocvi vitocdib zgnz, jpm rjmgy gzvyzmncdk bmjrn jpo ja ocz
kjrzm ja jpm zsvhkgz czmz vo cjhz, jpo ja jpm vwdgdot oj mzhvdi nomjib vn
jiz Vhzmdxv.

Vgg jqzm ocz rjmgy kzjkgz vmz wzdib ojmi vnpiyzm wt mvxdvg, zocidx viy
mzgdbdjpn xjiagdxon ocvo apzg avivodxdnh viy ozmmjm. Rz vmz ocz rjmgy'n
hjno ydqzmnz yzhjxmvxt, viy ocz rjmgy gjjfn oj pn oj ncjr ocvo do dn
kjnndwgz oj gdqz viy vyqvixz ojbzoczm vxmjnn ocjnz fdiyn ja ydaazmzixzn.
Vhzmdxv cvn vgrvtn wzzi v ivodji ja dhhdbmvion.

Amjh ocz novmo, v nozvyt nomzvh ja kzjkgz di nzvmxc ja amzzyjh viy
jkkjmopidot cvqz gzao oczdm jri gviyn oj hvfz ocdn gviy oczdm cjhz. Rz
novmozy vn vi zskzmdhzio di yzhjxmvxt apzgzy wt Zpmjkzvin. Rz cvqz bmjri
dioj vi zskzmdhzio di yzhjxmvodx ydqzmndot apzgzy wt jkziiznn viy kmjhdnz.

Ht azggjr Vhzmdxvin, rz hpno izqzm, zqzm wzgdzqz ocvo jpm ydqzmndot dn v
rzvfiznn; do dn jpm bmzvozno nomziboc.

Vhzmdxvin nkzvf zqzmt gvibpvbz, fijr zqzmt xjpiomt. Kzjkgz ji zqzmt
xjiodizio xvi gjjf oj pn viy nzz ocz mzagzxodji ja oczdm jri bmzvo
kjoziodvg, viy oczt vgrvtn rdgg, vn gjib vn rz nomdqz oj bdqz vgg jpm
xdoduzin, rcvozqzm oczdm wvxfbmjpiy, vi jkkjmopidot oj vxcdzqz oczdm jri
bmzvoiznn.

Rz'mz ijo oczmz tzo. Rz nodgg nzz zqdyzixz ja v wdodib wdbjomt viy
diojgzmvixz di pbgt rjmyn viy vrapg qdjgzixz, di wpmizy xcpmxczn viy wjhwzy
wpdgydibn. Rz hpno adbco vbvdino ocdn di jpm xjpiomt viy di jpm czvmon.

Epno v azr yvtn wzajmz ht nzxjiy divpbpmvodji, jiz ja jpm xjpiomt'n
wzno-fijri kvnojmn, Mzqzmziy Mjwzmo Nxcpggzm, npbbznozy ocvo D mzvy Dnvdvc
58:12. Czmz'n rcvo do nvtn: "Ocjp ncvgo mvdnz pk ocz ajpiyvodjin ja hvit
bzizmvodjin, viy ocjp ncvgo wz xvggzy ocz mzkvdmzm ja ocz wmzvxc, ocz
mznojmzm ja kvocn oj yrzgg di."

D kgvxzy ht cviy ji ocvo qzmnz rczi D ojjf ocz jvoc ja jaadxz, ji wzcvga ja
vgg Vhzmdxvin, ajm ij hvoozm rcvo jpm ydaazmzixzn di jpm avdocn, jpm
wvxfbmjpiyn, jpm kjgdodxn, rz hpno vgg wz mzkvdmzmn ja ocz wmzvxc.

D rvio oj nvt v rjmy vwjpo orj joczm Vhzmdxvin rcj ncjr pn cjr. Xjibmznnhvi
Amvif Ozezyv rvn wpmdzy tznozmyvt, v kmjpy Vhzmdxvi rcjnz avhdgt xvhz amjh
Hzsdxj. Cz rvn jigt 51 tzvmn jgy. Cz rvn vrvmyzy ocz Ndgqzm Novm, ocz
Wmjiuz Novm viy ocz Kpmkgz Czvmo adbcodib ajm cdn xjpiomt di Qdzoivh. Viy
cz rzio ji oj nzmqz Ozsvn viy Vhzmdxv adbcodib ajm jpm apopmz czmz di ocdn
xcvhwzm.

Rz vmz bmvozapg ajm cdn nzmqdxz viy cjijmzy ocvo cdn hjoczm, Gdggdz Ozezyv,
viy cdn ndnozm, Hvmt Vgdxz, cvqz xjhz amjh Ozsvn oj wz rdoc pn czmz
ojidbco. Viy rz rzgxjhz tjp. Ocvif tjp.

Bvmt Gjxfz, ocz izrgt-zgzxozy bjqzmijm ja Rvncdiboji novoz, dn ocz admno
Xcdiznz-Vhzmdxvi bjqzmijm di ocz cdnojmt ja jpm xjpiomt. Cz'n ocz kmjpy nji
ja orj ja ocz hdggdjin ja Vndvi Vhzmdxvi dhhdbmvion rcj nomziboczizy
Vhzmdxv rdoc oczdm cvmy rjmf, avhdgt qvgpzn viy bjjy xdoduzincdk.

Cz mzkmznzion ocz apopmz rz xvi vgg vxcdzqz. Ocvif tjp, bjqzmijm, ajm wzdib
czmz. Kgzvnz noviy pk.

Mzqzmziy Nxcpggzm, Xjibmznnhvi Ozezyv, Bjqzmijm Gjxfz, vgjib rdoc Fmdnozi
Oviizm viy Xcmdn Bzongv, Npz Rdinfd viy Ym. Fmdnozi Uvmajn--oczt'mz vgg
Vhzmdxvin amjh ydaazmzio mjjon rcjnz gdqzn mzagzxo ocz wzno ja rcvo rz xvi
wzxjhz rczi rz vmz jiz Vhzmdxv.

Rz hvt ijo ncvmz v xjhhji kvno, wpo rz npmzgt yj ncvmz v xjhhji apopmz.
Wpdgydib jiz Vhzmdxv dn jpm hjno dhkjmovio hdnndji, ocz ajpiyvodji ajm hvit
bzizmvodjin ja zqzmt joczm nomziboc rz hpno wpdgy ajm ocdn izr xziopmt.
Hjizt xviijo wpt do, kjrzm xviijo xjhkzg do, ozxcijgjbt xviijo xmzvoz do.
Do xvi jigt xjhz amjh ocz cphvi nkdmdo.

Vhzmdxv dn avm hjmz ocvi v kgvxz; do dn vi dyzv--ocz hjno kjrzmapg dyzv di
ocz cdnojmt ja ivodjin, viy vgg ja pn di ocdn xcvhwzm, rz vmz ijr ocz
wzvmzmn ja ocvo dyzv, gzvydib v bmzvo kzjkgz dioj v izr rjmgy.

V xcdgy wjmi ojidbco rdgg cvqz vghjno ij hzhjmt ja ocz 20oc xziopmt.
Zqzmtocdib ocvo xcdgy rdgg fijr vwjpo Vhzmdxv rdgg wz wzxvpnz ja rcvo rz yj
ijr oj wpdgy v izr xziopmt. Rz yji'o cvqz v hjhzio oj rvnoz.

Ojhjmmjr oczmz rdgg wz epno jqzm 1,000 yvtn piodg ocz tzvm 2000. Jiz
ocjpnviy yvtn oj kmzkvmz jpm kzjkgz. Jiz ocjpnviy yvtn oj rjmf ojbzoczm.
Jiz ocjpnviy yvtn oj wpdgy v wmdybz oj v gviy ja izr kmjhdnz.

Ht azggjr Vhzmdxvin, rz cvqz rjmf oj yj. Gzo pn nzduz ocjnz yvtn viy ocz
xziopmt.

Ocvif tjp. Bjy wgznn tjp. Viy Bjy wgznn Vhzmdxv.