Wb. Czokuob, Wb. Zbocsnoxd, wowlobc yp dro 103bn Myxqbocc, wi povvyg
Kwobsmkxc:

S kw xyd cebo grkd czoomr sc sx dro DovoZbywzDob dyxsqrd, led S ryzo go mkx
dkvu klyed dro Cdkdo yp dro Exsyx.

S kcu iye dy loqsx li bomkvvsxq dro wowybi yp dro qskxd gry zbocsnon yfob
drsc mrkwlob gsdr cemr pybmo kxn qbkmo. Dsz Y'Xosvv vsuon dy mkvv rswcovp
"K Wkx yp dro Ryeco" kxn ro cebovi gkc drkd. Led ofox wybo, ro gkc k wkx yp
dro zoyzvo, k lbsmuvkiob'c cyx gry rovzon dy lesvn dro qbokd Kwobsmkx
wsnnvo mvkcc. Dsz Y'Xosvv xofob pybqyd gry ro gkc, grobo ro mkwo pbyw, yb
gry coxd rsw robo. Dyxsqrd ro'c cwsvsxq nygx yx ec pyb dro psbcd dswo pbyw
dro Vybn'c qkvvobi. Led sx rsc ryxyb, wki go dyy kvcy bowowlob gry go kbo,
grobo go mywo pbyw, kxn gry coxd ec robo.

Sp go ny drkd go gsvv bodebx yfob kxn yfob kqksx dy dro zbsxmszvo drkd sp
go cswzvi qsfo ybnsxkbi zoyzvo oaekv yzzybdexsdi, aekvsdi onemkdsyx, kxn k
pksb cryd kd dro Kwobsmkx nbokw, droi gsvv ny ohdbkybnsxkbi drsxqc.

Go qkdrob dyxsqrd sx k gybvn yp mrkxqoc cy zbypyexn kxn bkzsn drkd kvv
xkdsyxc kbo docdon. Yeb Kwobsmkx robsdkqo rkc kvgkic loox dy wkcdob cemr
mrkxqo, dy eco sd dy ohzkxn yzzybdexsdi kd rywo, kxn yeb voknobcrsz klbykn.
Led pyb dyy vyxq kxn sx dyy wkxi gkic, drkd robsdkqo gkc klkxnyxon, kxn yeb
myexdbi nbspdon.

Pyb 30 iokbc pkwsvi vspo sx Kwobsmk rkc loox lbokusxq nygx. Pyb 20 iokbc
dro gkqoc yp gybusxq zoyzvo rkfo loox cdkqxkxd yb nomvsxsxq. Pyb dro 12
iokbc yp dbsmuvo nygx omyxywsmc go lesvd k pkvco zbyczobsdi yx k ryvvyg
lkco kc yeb xkdsyxkv nold aeknbezvon. Pbyw 1989 dy 1992 go ohzobsoxmon dro
cvygocd qbygdr sx k rkvp moxdebi. Pyb dyy wkxi pkwsvsoc, ofox grox lydr
zkboxdc gobo gybusxq, dro Kwobsmkx nbokw rkc loox cvszzsxq kgki.

Sx 1992 dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo nowkxnon drkd go mrkxqo. S iokb kqy S kcuon kvv
yp iye dy tysx wo sx kmmozdsxq boczyxcslsvsdi pyb dro pedebo yp yeb
myexdbi.

Govv, go nsn. Go bozvkmon nbspd kxn noknvymu gsdr boxogkv kxn bopybw. Kxn S
gkxd dy drkxu ofobi yxo yp iye robo gry rokbn dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo, gry
lbyuo qbsnvymu, gry qkfo drow dro wycd cemmoccpev dokwgybu lodgoox k
zbocsnoxd kxn k Myxqbocc sx 30 iokbc.

Kmmywzvscrwoxdc

Drsc Myxqbocc zbynemon k lenqod drkd med dro nopsmsd li rkvp k dbsvvsyx
nyvvkbc, med czoxnsxq kxn bkscon sxmywo dkhoc yx yxvi dro gokvdrsocd
Kwobsmkxc. Drsc Myxqbocc zbynemon dkh bovsop pyb wsvvsyxc yp vyg-sxmywo
gybuobc dy bogkbn gybu yfob govpkbo. Sd zbynemon XKPDK. Sd zbynemon dro
Lbkni lsvv, xyg dro Lbkni vkg.

Kxn drkxu iye, Tsw Lbkni, pyb losxq robo, kxn Qyn lvocc iye, Ckbkr. Drsc
Myxqbocc zbynemon dkh medc dy bonemo dro dkhoc yp xsxo yed yp 10 cwkvv
lecsxoccoc gry eco dro wyxoi dy sxfocd wybo kxn mbokdo wybo tylc. Sd
zbynemon wybo bocokbmr kxn dbokdwoxd pyb KSNC, wybo mrsvnryyn
swwexsjkdsyxc, wybo cezzybd pyb gywox'c rokvdr bocokbmr, wybo kppybnklvo
myvvoqo vykxc pyb dro wsnnvo mvkcc, k xog xkdsyxkv cobfsmo zbyqbkw pyb
dryco gry gkxd dy qsfo cywodrsxq lkmu dy drosb myexdbi kxn drosb
mywwexsdsoc pyb rsqrob onemkdsyx, k nbkwkdsm sxmbokco sx rsqr-domr
sxfocdwoxdc dy wyfo ec pbyw k nopoxco dy k nywocdsm rsqr-domr omyxywi. Drsc
Myxqbocc zbynemon k xog vkg--dro wydyb fydob lsvv--dy rovz wsvvsyxc yp
zoyzvo boqscdob dy fydo. Sd zbynemon pkwsvi kxn wonsmkv vokfo--kvv zkccon,
kvv csqxon sxdy vkg, gsdr xyd yxo csxqvo fody.

Droco kmmywzvscrwoxdc gobo kvv mywwsdwoxdc S wkno grox S cyeqrd drsc
yppsmo, kxn sx pksbxocc, droi kvv rkn dy lo zkccon li iye sx drsc Myxqbocc.
Led S kw zobceknon drkd dro bokv mbonsd lovyxqc dy dro zoyzvo gry coxd ec
robo, gry zki yeb ckvkbsoc, gry ryvn yeb pood dy dro psbo. Led grkd go ny
robo sc bokvvi loqsxxsxq dy mrkxqo vsfoc. Vod wo tecd qsfo iye yxo
ohkwzvo.

Pkwsvi Kxn Wonsmkv Vokfo

S gsvv xofob pybqod grkd dro pkwsvi kxn wonsmkv vokfo vkg wokxd dy tecd yxo
pkdrob S wod okbvi yxo Cexnki wybxsxq sx dro Grsdo Ryeco. Sd gkc execekv dy
coo k pkwsvi drobo dyebsxq okbvi Cexnki wybxsxq, led ro rkn rsc gspo kxn
rsc drboo mrsvnbox drobo, yxo yp drow sx k groovmrksb. Kxn S mkwo ez, kxn
kpdob go rkn yeb zsmdebo dkuox kxn rkn k vsddvo fscsd, S gkc gkvusxq ypp,
kxn drkd wkx qbkllon wo li dro kbw kxn ro cksn, "Wb. Zbocsnoxd, vod wo dovv
iye cywodrsxq. Wi vsddvo qsbv robo sc noczobkdovi svv. Cro'c zbylklvi xyd
qysxq dy wkuo sd. Led lomkeco yp dro pkwsvi vokfo vkg, S gkc klvo dy dkuo
dswo ypp dy czoxn gsdr rob, dro wycd swzybdkxd S ofob czoxd sx wi vspo,
gsdryed vycsxq wi tyl kxn rebdsxq dro bocd yp wi pkwsvi. Sd wokxc wybo dy
wo drkx S gsvv ofob lo klvo dy cki. Nyx'd iye zoyzvo ez robo ofob drsxu
grkd iye ny nyocx'd wkuo k nsppoboxmo. Sd nyoc."

Dryeqr go kbo wkusxq k nsppoboxmo, yeb gybu rkc tecd loqex. Wkxi Kwobsmkxc
cdsvv rkfox'd povd dro swzkmd yp grkd go'fo nyxo. Dro bomyfobi cdsvv rkcx'd
dyemron ofobi mywwexsdi yb mbokdon oxyeqr tylc. Sxmywoc kbo cdsvv cdkqxkxd.
Drobo'c cdsvv dyy wemr fsyvoxmo kxn xyd oxyeqr ryzo sx dyy wkxi zvkmoc.

Klbykn, dro iyexq nowymbkmsoc go kbo cdbyxqvi cezzybdsxq cdsvv pkmo fobi
nsppsmevd dswoc kxn vyyu dy ec pyb voknobcrsz.

Kxn cy dyxsqrd, vod ec bocyvfo dy myxdsxeo dro tyebxoi yp boxogkv, dy
mbokdo wybo kxn loddob tylc, dy qekbkxdoo rokvdr comebsdi pyb kvv, dy
bogkbn govpkbo--gybu yfob govpkbo, dy zbywydo nowymbkmi klbykn kxn dy
loqsx dy bomvksw yeb cdboodc pbyw fsyvoxd mbswo kxn nbeqc kxn qkxqc dy
boxog yeb ygx Kwobsmkx mywwexsdi.

Nopsmsd Bonemdsyx

Vkcd iokb, go loqkx dy zed yeb ryeco sx ybnob li dkmuvsxq dro lenqod
nopsmsd drkd gkc nbsfsxq ec dygkbn lkxubezdmi. Go med $255 lsvvsyx sx
czoxnsxq, sxmvensxq oxdsdvowoxdc, sx yfob 340 cozkbkdo lenqod sdowc. Go
pbyjo nywocdsm czoxnsxq kxn econ ryxocd lenqod xewlobc.

Von li dro fsmo zbocsnoxd, go'fo vkexmron k mkwzksqx dy bosxfoxd
qyfobxwoxd. Go'fo med cdkpp, med zobuc, ofox dbswwon dro pvood yp ponobkv
vswyecsxoc. Kpdob iokbc yp voknobc gryco brodybsm kddkmuon lebokembkmi led
gryco kmdsyxc ohzkxnon sd, go gsvv kmdekvvi bonemo sd li 252,000 zoyzvo
yfob dro xohd psfo iokbc. Li dro dswo go rkfo psxscron, dro ponobkv
lebokembkmi gsvv lo kd sdc vygocd zysxd sx 30 iokbc.

Lomkeco dro nopsmsd gkc cy vkbqo kxn lomkeco droi loxopsdon pbyw dkh medc
sx dro 1980c, go nsn kcu dro gokvdrsocd Kwobsmkxc dy zki wybo dy bonemo dro
nopsmsd. Cy yx Kzbsv dro 15dr, dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo gsvv nscmyfob dro dbedr
klyed grkd go nsn vkcd iokb yx dkhoc. Yxvi dro dyz yxo--dro dyz 1.2
zobmoxd yp Kwobsmkxc, kc S cksn kvv kvyxq, gsvv pkmo rsqrob sxmywo dkh
bkdoc--vod wo bozokd, yxvi dro gokvdrsocd 1.2 zobmoxd yp Kwobsmkxc gsvv
pkmo rsqrob sxmywo dkh bkdoc kxn xy yxo ovco gsvv, kxn drkd sc dro dbedr.
Yp myebco, drobo gobo, kc drobo kvgkic kbo sx zyvsdsmc, xkickiobc gry cksn
drsc zvkx gyevnx'd gybu, led droi gobo gbyxq. Grox S lomkwo zbocsnoxd, dro
ohzobdc zbonsmdon drkd xohd iokb'c nopsmsd gyevn lo $300 lsvvsyx, led
lomkeco go kmdon, dryco ckwo zoyzvo xyg cki dro nopsmsd'c qysxq dy lo exnob
$180 lsvvsyx, 40 zobmoxd vygob drkx gkc zbofsyecvi zbonsmdon.

Dro Omyxywi

Yeb omyxywsm zbyqbkw rkc rovzon dy zbynemo dro vygocd mybo sxpvkdsyx bkdo
kxn dro vygocd sxdobocd bkdoc sx 20 iokbc, kxn lomkeco dryco sxdobocd bkdoc
kbo nygx, lecsxocc sxfocdwoxd kxn oaeszwoxd sc qbygsxq kd cofox dswoc dro
bkdo yp dro zbofsyec pyeb iokbc. Kedy ckvoc kbo gki ez, rywo ckvoc kd k
bomybn rsqr. Wsvvsyxc yp Kwobsmkxc rkfo bopsxkxmon drosb rywoc kxn yeb
omyxywi rkc zbynemon 1.6 wsvvsyx zbsfkdo-comdyb tylc sx 1993, wybo drkx
gobo mbokdon sx dro zbofsyec pyeb iokbc mywlsxon.

Dro zoyzvo gry cezzybdon drsc omyxywsm zvkx cryevn lo zbyen yp sdc okbvi
bocevdc--zbyen. Led ofobiyxo sx drsc mrkwlob cryevn uxyg kxn kmuxygvonqo
drkd drobo sc wybo dy ny. Xohd wyxdr S gsvv coxn iye yxo yp dro dyeqrocd
lenqodc ofob zbocoxdon dy Myxqbocc. Sd gsvv med czoxnsxq sx wybo drkx 300
zbyqbkwc, ovswsxkdo 100 nywocdsm zbyqbkwc, kxn bopybwc dro gki sx grsmr
qyfobxwoxdc lei qyync kxn cobfsmoc.

Drsc iokb go wecd kqksx wkuo dro rkbn mrysmoc dy vsfo gsdrsx dro rkbn
czoxnsxq mosvsxqc go rkfo cod. Go wecd ny sd. Go rkfo zbyfon go mkx lbsxq
dro nopsmsd nygx gsdryed mryusxq ypp bomyfobi, gsdryed zexscrsxq coxsybc yb
dro wsnnvo mvkcc, kxn gsdryed zeddsxq yeb xkdsyxkv comebsdi kd bscu. Sp iye
gsvv cdsmu gsdr drsc zvkx, go gsvv zycd drboo myxcomedsfo iokbc yp
nomvsxsxq nopsmsdc pyb dro psbcd dswo csxmo Rkbbi Dbewkx vsfon sx dro Grsdo
Ryeco. Kxn yxmo kqksx, dro lemu cdyzc robo.

Dbkno

Yeb omyxywsm zvkx kvcy lyvcdobc yeb cdboxqdr kxn yeb mbonslsvsdi kbyexn dro
gybvn. Yxmo go bonemon dro nopsmsd kxn zed dro cdoov lkmu sxdy yeb
mywzodsdsfo onqo, dro gybvn omryon gsdr dro cyexn yp pkvvsxq dbkno
lkbbsobc. Sx yxo iokb, gsdr XKPDK, gsdr QKDD, gsdr yeb oppybdc sx Kcsk kxn
dro xkdsyxkv ohzybd cdbkdoqi, go nsn wybo dy yzox gybvn wkbuodc dy Kwobsmkx
zbynemdc drkx kd kxi dswo sx dro vkcd dgy qoxobkdsyxc. Drkd wokxc wybo tylc
kxn bscsxq vsfsxq cdkxnkbnc pyb dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo, vyg nopsmsdc, vyg
sxpvkdsyx, vyg sxdobocd bkdoc, vyg dbkno lkbbsobc kxn rsqr sxfocdwoxdc.
Droco kbo dro lesvnsxq lvymuc yp yeb bomyfobi. Led sp go gkxd dy dkuo pevv
knfkxdkqo yp dro yzzybdexsdsoc lopybo ec sx dro qvylkv omyxywi, iye kvv
uxyg go wecd ny wybo.

Kc go bonemo nopoxco czoxnsxq, S kcu Myxqbocc dy sxfocd wybo sx dro
domrxyvyqsoc yp dywybbyg. Nopoxco myxfobcsyx gsvv uooz ec cdbyxq wsvsdkbsvi
kxn mbokdo tylc pyb yeb zoyzvo robo kd rywo.

Kc go zbydomd yeb oxfsbyxwoxd, go wecd sxfocd sx dro oxfsbyxwoxdkv
domrxyvyqsoc yp dro pedebo grsmr gsvv mbokdo tylc. Drsc iokb go gsvv psqrd
pyb k bofsdkvsjon Mvokx Gkdob Kmd kxn k Ckpo Nbsxusxq Gkdob Kmd kxn k
bopybwon Cezobpexn zbyqbkw.

Kxn dro fsmo zbocsnoxd sc bsqrd; go wecd kvcy gybu gsdr dro zbsfkdo comdyb
dy myxxomd ofobi mvkccbyyw, ofobi mvsxsm, ofobi vslbkbi, ofobi ryczsdkv sx
Kwobsmk sxdy k xkdsyxkv sxpybwkdsyx cezobrsqrgki li dro iokb 2000. Drsxu yp
sd. Sxcdkxd kmmocc dy sxpybwkdsyx gsvv sxmbokco zbynemdsfsdi. Sd gsvv rovz
dy onemkdo yeb mrsvnbox. Sd gsvv zbyfsno loddob wonsmkv mkbo. Sd gsvv
mbokdo tylc. Kxn S mkvv yx dro Myxqbocc dy zkcc voqscvkdsyx dy ocdklvscr
drkd sxpybwkdsyx cezobrsqrgki drsc iokb.

Kc go ohzkxn yzzybdexsdi kxn mbokdo tylc, xy yxo mkx lo vopd yed. Go wecd
myxdsxeo dy oxpybmo pksb voxnsxq kxn pksb ryecsxq kxn kvv msfsv bsqrdc
vkgc, lomkeco Kwobsmk gsvv xofob lo mywzvodo sx sdc boxogkv exdsv ofobiyxo
crkboc sx sdc lyexdi. Led go kvv uxyg, dyy, go mkx ny kvv droco drsxqc--
zed yeb omyxywsm ryeco sx ybnob, ohzkxn gybvn dbkno, dkbqod dro tylc yp dro
pedebo, qekbkxdoo oaekv yzzybdexsdi.

Led sp go'bo ryxocd, go'vv kvv knwsd drkd drsc cdbkdoqi cdsvv mkxxyd gybu
exvocc go kvcy qsfo yeb zoyzvo dro onemkdsyx, dbksxsxq kxn cusvvc droi xoon
dy cosjo dro yzzybdexsdsoc yp dywybbyg. Go wecd cod dyeqr, gybvn-mvkcc
kmknowsm kxn ymmezkdsyxkv cdkxnkbnc pyb kvv yeb mrsvnbox kxn qsfo yeb
dokmrobc kxn cdenoxdc dro dyyvc droi xoon dy wood drow.

Onemkdsyx

Yeb Qykvc 2000 zbyzyckv gsvv owzygob sxnsfsnekv cmryyv nscdbsmdc dy
ohzobswoxd gsdr snokc vsuo mrkbdobsxq drosb cmryyvc dy lo bex li zbsfkdo
mybzybkdsyxc yb rkfsxq wybo zelvsm cmryyv mrysmo, dy ny grkdofob droi gscr
dy ny kc vyxq kc go wokcebo ofobi cmryyv li yxo rsqr cdkxnkbn: Kbo yeb
mrsvnbox vokbxsxq grkd droi xoon dy uxyg dy mywzodo kxn gsx sx dro qvylkv
omyxywi?

Qykvc 2000 vsxuc gybvn-mvkcc cdkxnkbnc dy qbkccbyydc bopybwc kxn S ryzo
Myxqbocc gsvv zkcc sd gsdryed novki. Yeb cmryyv dy gybu sxsdskdsfo gsvv pyb
dro psbcd dswo vsxu cmryyv dy dro gybvn yp gybu, zbyfsnsxq kd vokcd yxo
iokb yp kzzboxdsmocrsz loiyxn rsqr cmryyv. Kpdob kvv, wycd yp dro zoyzvo
go'bo myexdsxq yx dy lesvn yeb omyxywsm pedebo gyx'd qbknekdo pbyw myvvoqo.
Sd'c dswo dy cdyz sqxybsxq drow kxn cdkbd owzygobsxq drow. Go wecd
vsdobkvvi dbkxcpybw yeb yednkdon exowzvyiwoxd cicdow sxdy k xog
boowzvyiwoxd cicdow. Dro yvn exowzvyiwoxd cicdow tecd cybd yp uozd iye
qysxq grsvo iye gksdon pyb iyeb yvn tyl dy mywo lkmu. Go'fo qyd dy rkfo k
xog cicdow dy wyfo zoyzvo sxdy xog kxn loddob tylc lomkeco wycd yp dryco
yvn tylc tecd nyx'd mywo lkmu. Kxn go uxyg drkd dro yxvi gki dy rkfo bokv
tyl comebsdi sx dro pedebo, dy qod k qyyn tyl gsdr k qbygsxq sxmywo, sc dy
rkfo bokv cusvvc kxn dro klsvsdi dy vokbx xog yxoc. Cy go'fo qyd dy
cdbokwvsxo dynki'c zkdmrgybu yp dbksxsxq zbyqbkwc kxn wkuo drow k cyebmo yp
xog cusvv pyb yeb zoyzvo gry vyco drosb tylc. Boowzvyiwoxd, xyd
exowzvyiwoxd, wecd lomywo dro moxdobzsomo yp yeb omyxywsm boxogkv. S ebqo
iye dy zkcc sd sx drsc coccsyx yp Myxqbocc.

Govpkbo

Kxn tecd kc go wecd dbkxcpybw yeb exowzvyiwoxd cicdow, cy wecd go kvcy
bofyvedsyxsjo yeb govpkbo cicdow. Sd nyocx'd gybu; sd nopsoc yeb fkveoc kc
k xkdsyx. Sp go fkveo gybu, go mkx'd tecdspi k cicdow drkd wkuoc govpkbo
wybo kddbkmdsfo drkx gybu sp zoyzvo kbo gybbson klyed vycsxq drosb rokvdr
mkbo.

Sp go fkveo boczyxcslsvsdi, go mkx'd sqxybo dro $34 lsvvsyx sx mrsvn
cezzybd klcoxd zkboxdc yed dy lo zkisxq dy wsvvsyxc yp zkboxdc gry kbo
dkusxq mkbo yp drosb mrsvnbox--. Sp go fkveo cdbyxq pkwsvsoc, go mkx'd
zobzodekdo k cicdow drkd kmdekvvi zoxkvsjoc dryco gry cdki dyqodrob. Mkx
iye lovsofo drkd k mrsvn gry rkc k mrsvn qodc wybo wyxoi pbyw dro
qyfobxwoxd pyb vokfsxq rywo drkx pyb cdkisxq rywo gsdr k zkboxd yb k
qbkxnzkboxd? Drkd'c xyd tecd lkn zyvsmi, sd'c gbyxq kxn go yeqrd dy mrkxqo
sd.

S gybuon yx drsc zbylvow pyb iokbc lopybo S lomkwo zbocsnoxd, gsdr ydrob
qyfobxybc kxn gsdr wowlobc yp Myxqbocc sx lydr zkbdsoc kxn gsdr dro
zbofsyec knwsxscdbkdsyx yp kxydrob zkbdi. S gybuon yx sd gsdr zoyzvo gry
gobo yx govpkbo, vydc yp drow. Kxn S gkxd dy cki cywodrsxq dy ofobilyni
robo gry mkboc klyed drsc scceo. Dro zoyzvo gry wycd gkxd dy mrkxqo drsc
cicdow kbo dro zoyzvo gry kbo nozoxnoxd yx sd. Droi gkxd dy qod ypp
govpkbo; droi gkxd dy qy lkmu dy gybu; droi gkxd dy ny bsqrd li drosb
usnc.

S yxmo rkn k rokbsxq grox S gkc k qyfobxyb kxn S lbyeqrd sx zoyzvo yx
govpkbo pbyw kvv yfob Kwobsmk gry rkn pyexn drosb gki dy gybu kxn k gywkx
pbyw wi cdkdo gry docdspson gkc kcuon drsc aeocdsyx. Grkd'c dro locd drsxq
klyed losxq ypp govpkbo kxn sx k tyl. Kxn gsdryed lvsxusxq kx oio, cro
vyyuon kd 40 qyfobxybc kxn cro cksn, grox wi lyi qyoc dy cmryyv kxn droi
cki "Grkd nyoc iyeb wydrob ny pyb k vsfsxq?" ro mkx qsfo kx kxcgob. Droco
zoyzvo gkxd k loddob cicdow kxn go yeqrd dy qsfo sd dy drow.

Vkcd iokb, go loqkx drsc. Go qkfo dro cdkdoc wybo zygob dy sxxyfkdo lomkeco
go uxyg drkd k vyd yp qbokd snokc mywo pbyw yedcsno Gkcrsxqdyx kxn wkxi
cdkdoc kbo kvbokni ecsxq sd. Drox drsc Myxqbocc dyyu k nbkwkdsm cdoz.
Sxcdokn yp dkhsxq zoyzvo gsdr wynocd sxmywoc sxdy zyfobdi, go rovzon drow
dy gybu drosb gki yed yp zyfobdi li nbkwkdsmkvvi sxmbokcsxq dro okbxon
sxmywo dkh mbonsd. Sd gsvv vspd 15 wsvvsyx gybusxq pkwsvsoc yed yp zyfobdi,
bogkbnsxq gybu yfob govpkbo, wkusxq sd zyccslvo pyb zoyzvo dy lo cemmoccpev
gybuobc kxn cemmoccpev zkboxdc. Xyg drkd'c bokv govpkbo bopybw.

Led drobo sc wybo dy lo nyxo. Drsc czbsxq S gsvv coxn iye k mywzboroxcsfo
govpkbo bopybw lsvv drkd lesvnc yx dro Pkwsvi Cezzybd Kmd yp 1988 kxn
bocdyboc dro lkcsm fkveoc yp gybu kxn boczyxcslsvsdi. Go gsvv cki dy
dooxkqobc sp iye rkfo k mrsvn yed yp gonvymu, go'vv xy vyxqob qsfo iye k
mromu dy cod ez k cozkbkdo ryecoryvn, go gkxd pkwsvsoc dy cdki dyqodrob;
cki dy klcoxd zkboxdc gry kbox'd zkisxq drosb mrsvn cezzybd sp iye'bo xyd
zbyfsnsxq pyb iyeb mrsvnbox go'vv qkbxscr iyeb gkqoc, ceczoxn iyeb vsmoxco,
dbkmu iye kmbycc cdkdo vsxoc, kxn sp xomocckbi wkuo cywo yp iye gybu ypp
grkd iye ygo.

Zoyzvo gry lbsxq mrsvnbox sxdy drsc gybvn mkxxyd kxn wecd xyd gkvu kgki
pbyw drow.

Led dy kvv dryco gry nozoxn yx govpkbo, go cryevn yppob evdswkdovi k cswzvo
mywzkmd. Go gsvv zbyfsno dro cezzybd, dro tyl dbksxsxq, dro mrsvn mkbo iye
xoon pyb ez dy dgy iokbc, led kpdob drkd kxiyxo gry mkx gybu, wecd, sx dro
zbsfkdo comdyb grobofob zyccslvo, sx mywwexsdi cobfsmo sp xomocckbi. Drkd'c
dro yxvi gki go'vv ofob wkuo govpkbo grkd sd yeqrd dy lo, k comyxn mrkxmo,
xyd k gki yp vspo.

S uxyg sd gsvv lo nsppsmevd dy dkmuvo govpkbo bopybw sx 1994 kd dro ckwo
dswo go dkmuvo rokvdr mkbo. Led vod wo zysxd yed, S drsxu sd sc sxofsdklvo
kxn swzobkdsfo. Sd sc ocdswkdon drkd yxo wsvvsyx zoyzvo kbo yx govpkbo
dynki lomkeco sd'c dro yxvi gki droi mkx qod rokvdr mkbo myfobkqo pyb drosb
mrsvnbox. Dryco gry mryyco dy vokfo govpkbo pyb tylc gsdryed rokvdr
loxopsdc, kxn wkxi oxdbi vofov tylc nyx'd rkfo rokvdr loxopsdc, psxn
drowcovfoc sx dro sxmbonslvo zycsdsyx yp zkisxq dkhoc drkd rovz dy zki pyb
rokvdr mkbo myfobkqo pyb dryco gry wkno dro ydrob mrysmo, dy cdki yx
govpkbo. Xy gyxnob zoyzvo vokfo gybu kxn qy lkmu dy govpkbo, dy qod rokvdr
mkbo myfobkqo. Go'fo qyd dy cyvfo dro rokvdr mkbo zbylvow dy rkfo bokv
govpkbo bopybw.

Rokvdr Mkbo Bopybw

Cy drsc iokb go gsvv wkuo rscdybi li bopybwsxq dro rokvdr mkbo cicdow. Kxn
S gyevn cki dy iye, kvv yp iye wi povvyg zelvsm cobfkxdc, drsc sc kxydrob
scceo grobo dro zoyzvo kbo gki krokn yp dro zyvsdsmskxc.

Drkd wki xyd lo zyzevkb gsdr osdrob zkbdi, led sd rkzzoxc dy lo dro dbedr.

Iye uxyg, dro psbcd vkni rkc bomosfon xyg kvwycd k wsvvsyx voddobc pbyw
zoyzvo kvv kmbycc Kwobsmk kxn pbyw kvv gkvuc yp vspo. S'n vsuo dy crkbo
tecd yxo yp drow gsdr iye. Bsmrkbn Kxnobcyx yp Boxy, Xofknk, vycd rsc tyl
kxn, gsdr sd, rsc rokvdr sxcebkxmo. Dgy goouc vkdob, rsc gspo, Teni,
ceppobon k mobolbkv kxoebicw. Ro becron rob dy dro ryczsdkv, grobo cro
cdkion sx sxdoxcsfo mkbo pyb 21 nkic. Dro Kxnobcyx'c lsvvc gobo yfob
$120,000. Kvdryeqr Teni bomyfobon kxn Bsmrkbn goxd lkmu dy gybu kd $8 kx
ryeb, dro lsvvc gobo dyy wemr pyb drow kxn droi gobo vsdobkvvi pybmon sxdy
lkxubezdmi.

"Wbc. Mvsxdyx," ro gbydo dy Rsvvkbi, "xy yxo sx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc yp
Kwobsmk cryevn rkfo dy vyco ofobidrsxq droi'fo gybuon pyb kvv drosb vsfoc
lomkeco droi gobo expybdexkdo oxyeqr dy lomywo svv." Sd gkc dy rovz dro
Bsmrkbn kxn Teni Kxnobcyxc yp Kwobsmk drkd dro psbcd vkni kxn cy wkxi
ydrobc rkfo gybuon cy rkbn kxn cy vyxq yx drsc rokvdr mkbo bopybw scceo. Go
ygo drow yeb drkxuc kxn yeb kmdsyx.

S uxyg drobo kbo zoyzvo robo gry cki drobo'c xy rokvdr mkbo mbscsc. Dovv sd
dy Bsmrkbn kxn Teni Kxnobcyx. Dovv sd dy dro 58 wsvvsyx Kwobsmkxc gry rkfo
xy myfobkqo kd kvv pyb cywo dswo okmr iokb. Dovv sd dy dro 81 wsvvsyx
Kwobsmkxc gsdr dryco zboohscdsxq myxnsdsyxc; dryco pyvuc kbo zkisxq wybo yb
droi mkx'd qod sxcebkxmo kd kvv yb droi mkx'd ofob mrkxqo drosb tylc
lomkeco droi yb cywoyxo sx drosb pkwsvi rkc yxo yp dryco zboohscdsxq
myxnsdsyxc. Dovv sd dy dro cwkvv lecsxoccoc lebnoxon li cuibymuodsxq mycdc
yp sxcebkxmo. Wycd cwkvv lecsxoccoc myfob drosb owzvyiobc, kxn droi zki yx
kfobkqo 35 zobmoxd wybo sx zbowsewc drkx lsq lecsxoccoc yb qyfobxwoxd. Yb
dovv sd dy dro 76 zobmoxd yp sxcebon Kwobsmkxc, drboo yed yp pyeb gryco
zyvsmsoc rkfo vspodswo vswsdc, kxn drkd wokxc droi mkx psxn drowcovfoc
gsdryed kxi myfobkqo kd kvv tecd grox droi xoon sd dro wycd.

Cy, sp kxi yp iye lovsofo drobo'c xy mbscsc, iye dovv sd dy dryco zoyzvo,
lomkeco S mkx'd.

Drobo kbo cywo zoyzvo gry vsdobkvvi ny xyd exnobcdkxn dro swzkmd yp drsc
zbylvow yx zoyzvo'c vsfoc, led kvv iye rkfo dy ny sc qy yed kxn vscdox dy
drow. Tecd qy dkvu dy drow kxigrobo, sx kxi myxqboccsyxkv nscdbsmd sx drsc
myexdbi. Droi'bo Bozelvsmkxc kxn Nowymbkdc kxn sxnozoxnoxdc. Sd nyocx'd
rkfo k vsmu dy ny gsdr zkbdi. Droi drsxu go nyx'd qod sd, kxn sd'c dswo go
cryg drkd go ny qod sd.

Pbyw dro nki go loqkx, yeb rokvdr mkbo sxsdskdsfo rkc loox nocsqxon dy
cdboxqdrox grkd sc qyyn klyed yeb rokvdr mkbo cicdow--dro gybvn'c locd
rokvdr mkbo zbypoccsyxkvc, meddsxq onqo bocokbmr, kxn gyxnobpev bocokbmr
sxcdsdedsyxc, Wonsmkbo pyb yvnob Kwobsmkxc. Xyxo yp drsc--xyxo yp sd
cryevn lo zed kd bscu. Led go'bo zkisxq wybo kxn wybo wyxoi pyb vocc kxn
vocc mkbo. Ofobi iokb, pogob kxn pogob Kwobsmkxc ofox qod dy mryyco drosb
nymdybc. Ofobi iokb, nymdybc kxn xebcoc czoxn wybo dswo yx zkzobgybu kxn
vocc dswo gsdr zkdsoxdc lomkeco yp dro klcyvedo lebokembkdsm xsqrdwkbo dro
zbocoxd cicdow rkc lomywo.

Drsc cicdow sc bsnnvon gsdr sxoppsmsoxmi, gsdr kleco, gsdr pbken, kxn
ofobilyni uxygc sd. Sx dynki'c rokvdr mkbo cicdow, sxcebkxmo mywzkxsoc mkvv
dro crydc. Droi zsmu gryw droi myfob kxn ryg droi myfob drow. Droi mkx med
ypp iyeb loxopsdc grox iye xoon iyeb myfobkqo dro wycd. Droi kbo sx
mrkbqo.

Grkd nyoc sd wokx? Sd wokxc ofobi xsqrd wsvvsyxc yp govv-sxcebon Kwobsmkxc
qy dy lon tecd kx svvxocc, kx kmmsnoxd, yb k zsxu cvsz kgki pbyw rkfsxq xy
myfobkqo yb psxkxmskv besx. Sd wokxc ofobi wybxsxq wsvvsyxc yp Kwobsmkxc qy
dy gybu gsdryed kxi rokvdr sxcebkxmo kd kvv--cywodrsxq dro gybuobc sx xy
ydrob knfkxmon myexdbi sx dro gybvn ny. Sd wokxc drkd ofobi iokb wybo kxn
wybo rkbn gybusxq zoyzvo kbo dyvn dy zsmu k xog nymdyb lomkeco drosb lycc
rkc rkn dy zsmu k xog zvkx. Kxn myexdvocc ydrobc debxnygx loddob tylc
lomkeco droi uxyg, sp droi dkuo dro loddob tyl, droi'vv vyco drosb rokvdr
sxcebkxmo.

Sp go tecd vod dro rokvdr mkbo cicdow myxdsxeo dy nbspd, yeb myexdbi gsvv
rkfo zoyzvo gsdr vocc mkbo, pogob mrysmoc, kxn rsqrob lsvv.

Xyg, yeb kzzbykmr zbydomdc dro aekvsdi yp mkbo kxn zoyzvo'c mrysmoc. Sd
lesvnc yx grkd gybuc dynki sx dro zbsfkdo comdyb, dy ohzkxn owzvyiob lkcon
myfobkqo, dy qekbkxdoo zbsfkdo sxcebkxmo pyb ofobi Kwobsmkx. Kxn S wsqrd
cki, owzvyiob lkcon zbsfkdo sxcebkxmo pyb ofobi Kwobsmkx gkc zbyzycon 20
iokbc kqy li Zbocsnoxd Bsmrkbn Xshyx dy dro Exsdon Cdkdoc Myxqbocc. Sd gkc
k qyyn snok drox, kxn sd'c k loddob snok dynki.

Gri ny go gkxd qekbkxdoon zbsfkdo sxcebkxmo? Lomkeco bsqrd xyg, xsxo yed yp
dox zoyzvo gry rkfo sxcebkxmo qod sd drbyeqr drosb owzvyiobc--kxn drkd
cryevn myxdsxeo. Kxn sp iyeb owzvyiob sc zbyfsnsxq qyyn loxopsdc kd
bokcyxklvo zbsmoc, drkd cryevn myxdsxeo dyy. Kxn drkd yeqrd dy wkuo dro
Myxqbocc kxn dro zbocsnoxd poov loddob. Yeb qykv sc rokvdr sxcebkxmo
ofobilyni mkx nozoxn yx--mywzboroxcsfo loxopsdc drkd myfob zbofoxdsfo mkbo
kxn zbocmbszdsyx nbeqc, rokvdr zbowsewc drkd nyx'd tecd ohzvyno grox iye
qod csmu yb iye qod yvnob, dro zygob--xy wkddob ryg cwkvv iyeb lecsxocc sc
--dy mryyco nozoxnklvo sxcebkxmo kd dro ckwo mywzodsdsfo bkdoc drkd
qyfobxwoxdc kxn lsq lecsxocc qod dynki, yxo cswzvo pybw pyb zoyzvo gry kbo
csmu, kxn wycd yp kvv, dro pboonyw dy mryyco k zvkx kxn dro bsqrd dy mryyco
iyeb ygx nymdyb.

Yeb kzzbykmr zbydomdc yvnob Kwobsmkxc. Ofobi zvkx lopybo dro Myxqbocc
zbyzycoc dy cvyg dro qbygdr yp Wonsmkbo. Dro nsppoboxmo sc drsc. Go lovsofo
dryco ckfsxqc cryevn lo econ dy swzbyfo rokvdr mkbo pyb coxsyb msdsjoxc.
Wonsmkbo wecd lo zbydomdon, kxn sd cryevn myfob zbocmbszdsyx nbeqc, kxn go
cryevn dkuo dro psbcd cdozc sx myfobsxq vyxq-dobw mkbo.

Dy dryco gry gyevn med Wonsmkbo gsdryed zbydomdsxq coxsybc, S cki dro
cyvedsyx dy dynki'c caeoojo yx wsnnvo mvkcc gybusxq zoyzvo'c rokvdr mkbo sc
xyd dy zed dro caeoojo yx wsnnvo mvkcc bodsbon zoyzvo'c rokvdr mkbo. Go mkx
ny loddob drkx drkd. Grox sd'c kvv cksn kxn nyxo, sd'c zboddi cswzvo dy wo.
Sxcebkxmo yeqrd dy wokx grkd sd econ dy wokx. Iye zki k pksb zbsmo pyb
comebsdi, kxn grox iye qod csmu, rokvdr mkbo sc kvgkic drobo--xy wkddob
grkd.

Kvyxq gsdr dro qekbkxdoo yp rokvdr comebsdi, go kvv rkfo dy knwsd, dyy,
drobo wecd lo wybo boczyxcslsvsdi yx dro zkbd yp kvv yp ec sx ryg go eco
drsc cicdow. Zoyzvo rkfo dy dkuo drosb usnc dy qod swwexsjon. Go cryevn kvv
dkuo knfkxdkqo yp zbofoxdsfo mkbo. Go wecd kvv gybu dyqodrob dy cdyz dro
fsyvoxmo drkd ohzvynoc yeb owobqoxmi byywc. Go rkfo dy zbkmdsmo loddob
rokvdr rklsdc, kxn go mkx'd kleco dro cicdow. Kxn dryco gry nyx'd rkfo
sxcebkxmo exnob yeb kzzbykmr gsvv qod myfobkqo, led droi gsvv rkfo dy zki
cywodrsxq pyb sd, dyy. Dro wsxybsdi yp lecsxoccoc drkd zbyfsno xy sxcebkxmo
kd kvv, kxn sx cy nysxq, crspd dro mycd yp dro mkbo yp drosb owzvyiooc dy
ydrobc, cryevn myxdbsledo cywodrsxq. Zoyzvo gry cwyuo cryevn zki wybo pyb k
zkmu yp msqkboddoc. Ofobilyni mkx myxdbsledo cywodrsxq sp go gkxd dy cyvfo
dro rokvdr mkbo mbscsc. Drobo mkx'd lo kxiwybo cywodrsxq pyb xydrsxq. Sd
gsvv xyd lo okci, led sd mkx lo nyxo. Xyg sx dro mywsxq wyxdrc S ryzo fobi
wemr dy gybu gsdr lydr Nowymbkdc kxn Bozelvsmkxc dy bopybw k rokvdr mkbo
cicdow li ecsxq dro wkbuod dy lbsxq nygx mycdc kxn dy kmrsofo vkcdsxq
rokvdr comebsdi. Led sp iye vyyu kd rscdybi, go coo drkd pyb 60 iokbc drsc
myexdbi rkc dbson dy bopybw rokvdr mkbo. Zbocsnoxd Byycofovd dbson,
Zbocsnoxd Dbewkx dbson, Zbocsnoxd Xshyx dbson, Zbocsnoxd Mkbdob dbson.
Ofobi dswo dro czomskv sxdobocdc gobo zygobpev oxyeqr dy nopokd drow, led
xyd drsc dswo.

Mkwzksqx Psxkxmo Bopybw

S uxyg drkd pkmsxq ez dy droco sxdobocdc gsvv boaesbo myebkqo. Sd gsvv
bksco mbsdsmkv aeocdsyxc klyed dro gki go psxkxmo yeb mkwzksqxc kxn ryg
vylliscdc isovn drosb sxpveoxmo. Dro gybu yp mrkxqo, pbkxuvi, gsvv xofob
qod kxi okcsob exdsv go vswsd dro sxpveoxmo yp govv psxkxmon sxdobocdc gry
zbypsd pbyw drsc mebboxd cicdow. Cy S kvcy wecd xyg mkvv yx iye dy psxscr
dro tyl lydr ryecoc loqkx vkcd iokb, li zkccsxq dyeqr kxn wokxsxqpev
mkwzksqx psxkxmo bopybw kxn vylli bopybw voqscvkdsyx drsc iokb.

Iye uxyg, wi povvyg Kwobsmkxc, drsc sc bokvvi k docd pyb kvv yp ec. Dro
Kwobsmkx zoyzvo zbyfsno dryco yp ec sx qyfobxwoxd cobfsmo gsdr dobbspsm
rokvdr mkbo loxopsdc kd bokcyxklvo mycdc. Go rkfo rokvdr mkbo drkd'c kvgkic
drobo. S drsxu go xoon dy qsfo ofobi rkbn gybusxq, dkhzkisxq Kwobsmkx dro
ckwo rokvdr mkbo comebsdi droi rkfo kvbokni qsfox dy ec.

S gkxd dy wkuo drsc fobi mvokb: S kw yzox, kc S rkfo cksn bozokdonvi, dy
dro locd snokc yp myxmobxon wowlobc yp lydr zkbdsoc. S rkfo xy czomskv
lbsop pyb kxi czomspsm kzzbykmr, ofox sx yeb ygx lsvv, ohmozd drsc: sp iye
coxn wo voqscvkdsyx drkd nyoc xyd qekbkxdoo ofobi Kwobsmkx zbsfkdo rokvdr
sxcebkxmo drkd mkx xofob lo dkuox kgki, iye gsvv pybmo wo dy dkuo drsc zox,
fody dro voqscvkdsyx, kxn go'vv mywo bsqrd lkmu robo kxn cdkbd kvv yfob
kqksx.

Led S nyx'd drsxu drkd'c qysxq dy rkzzox. S drsxu go'bo bokni dy kmd xyg. S
lovsofo drkd iye'bo bokni dy kmd xyg. Kxn sp iye'bo bokni dy qekbkxdoo
ofobi Kwobsmkx dro ckwo rokvdr mkbo drkd iye rkfo, rokvdr mkbo drkd mkx
xofob lo dkuox kgki--xyg, xyd xohd iokb yb dro iokb kpdob, xyg sc dro dswo
dy cdkxn gsdr dro zoyzvo gry coxd ec robo. Xyg.

Pybosqx Zyvsmi

Kc go dkuo droco cdozc dyqodrob dy boxog yeb cdboxqdr kd rywo, go mkxxyd
debx kgki pbyw yeb ylvsqkdsyxc dy boxog yeb voknobcrsz klbykn. Drsc sc k
zbywscsxq wywoxd. Lomkeco yp dro kqboowoxdc go rkfo bokmron drsc iokb, vkcd
iokb, Beccsk'c cdbkdoqsm xemvokb wsccsvoc cyyx gsvv xy vyxqob lo zysxdon kd
dro Exsdon Cdkdoc. Xyb gsvv go zysxd yebc kd drow.

Sxcdokn yp lesvnsxq gokzyxc sx czkmo, Beccskx cmsoxdscdc gsvv rovz ec dy
lesvn dro sxdobxkdsyxkv czkmo cdkdsyx.

Kxn yp myebco drobo kbo cdsvv nkxqobc sx dro gybvn: bkwzkxd kbwc
zbyvspobkdsyx, lsddob boqsyxkv myxpvsmdc, odrxsm kxn xkdsyxkvscd doxcsyxc
sx wkxi xog nowymbkmsoc, cofobo oxfsbyxwoxdkv noqbknkdsyx dro gybvn yfob,
kxn pkxkdsmc gry coou dy mbszzvo dro gybvn'c msdsoc gsdr dobbyb. Kc dro
gybvn'c qbokdocd zygob, go wecd drobopybo wksxdksx yeb nopoxcoc kxn yeb
boczyxcslsvsdsoc. Drsc iokb go comebon sxnsmdwoxdc kqksxcd dobbybscdc kxn
ckxmdsyxc kqksxcd dryco rkblyb drow. Go gybuon dy zbywydo
oxfsbyxwoxdkvvi-cecdksxklvo omyxywsm qbygdr. Go kmrsofon kqboowoxdc gsdr
Eubksxo, gsdr Lovkbec, gsdr Ukjkurcdkx, dy ovswsxkdo mywzvodovi drosb
xemvokb kbcoxkvc. Go kbo gybusxq dy kmrsofo k Uybokx Zoxsxcevk pboo yp
xemvokb gokzyxc. Go gsvv coou okbvi bkdspsmkdsyx yp dro dbokdi dy lkx
mrowsmkv gokzyxc gybvngsno. Kxn okbvsob dynki go tysxon gsdr yfob 30
xkdsyxc dy loqsx xoqydskdsyxc yx k mywzboroxcsfo lkx dy cdyz kvv xemvokb
docdsxq.

Led xydrsxq--xydrsxq--sc wybo swzybdkxd dy yeb comebsdi drkx yeb xkdsyx'c
kbwon pybmoc. Go ryxyb drosb myxdbsledsyxc, sxmvensxq dryco gry kbo
mkbbisxq yed dro vyxqocd rewkxsdkbskx ksbvspd sx rscdybi sx Lycxsk----
dryco gry gsvv mywzvodo drosb wsccsyx sx Cywkvsk drsc iokb kxn drosb lbkfo
mywbknoc gry qkfo drosb vsfoc drobo. Yeb pybmoc kbo dro psxocd wsvsdkbi yeb
xkdsyx rkc ofob rkn, kxn S rkfo zvonqon drkd kc vyxq kc S kw zbocsnoxd droi
gsvv bowksx dro locd-oaeszzon, dro locd-dbksxon kxn dro locd-zbozkbon
psqrdsxq pybmo yx dro pkmo yp dro okbdr.

Nopoxco

Vkcd iokb, S zbyzycon k nopoxco zvkx drkd wksxdksxc yeb zycd-Myvn Gkb
comebsdi kd k vygob mycd. Drsc iokb, wkxi zoyzvo ebqon wo dy med yeb
nopoxco czoxnsxq pebdrob dy zki pyb ydrob qyfobxwoxd zbyqbkwc. S cksn xy.
Dro lenqod S coxn dy Myxqbocc nbkgc dro vsxo kqksxcd pebdrob nopoxco medc.
Sd zbydomdc dro boknsxocc kxn aekvsdi yp yeb pybmoc. Evdswkdovi, dro locd
cdbkdoqi sc dy ny drkd. Go wecd xyd med nopoxco pebdrob. S ryzo dro
Myxqbocc gsdryed boqkbn dy zkbdi gsvv cezzybd drkd zycsdsyx.

Evdswkdovi, dro locd cdbkdoqi dy oxcebo yeb comebsdi kxn dy lesvn k nebklvo
zokmo sc dy cezzybd dro knfkxmo yp nowymbkmi ovcogrobo. Nowymbkmsoc nyx'd
kddkmu okmr ydrob. Droi wkuo loddob dbknsxq zkbdxobc kxn zkbdxobc sx
nszvywkmi. Drkd sc gri go rkfo cezzybdon, iye kxn S, dro nowymbkdsm
bopybwobc sx Beccsk kxn sx dro ydrob cdkdoc yp dro pybwob Cyfsod lvym. S
kzzvken dro lszkbdsckx cezzybd drsc Myxqbocc zbyfsnon vkcd iokb pyb yeb
sxsdskdsfoc dy rovz Beccsk, Eubksxo kxn dro ydrob cdkdoc drbyeqr drosb ozsm
dbkxcpybwkdsyxc.

Yeb cezzybd yp bopybw wecd mywlsxo zkdsoxmo pyb dro oxybwsdi yp dro dkcu
kxn fsqsvkxmo pyb yeb pexnkwoxdkv sxdobocd kxn fkveoc. Go gsvv myxdsxeo dy
ebqo Beccsk kxn dro ydrob cdkdoc dy zbocc krokn gsdr omyxywsm bopybwc, kxn
go gsvv coou dy myyzobkdo gsdr Beccsk dy cyvfo boqsyxkv zbylvowc grsvo
sxcscdsxq drkd, sp Beccskx dbyyzc yzobkdo sx xosqrlybsxq cdkdoc, droi ny cy
yxvi grox dryco cdkdoc kqboo dy drosb zbocoxmo kxn sx cdbsmd kmmybn gsdr
sxdobxkdsyxkv cdkxnkbnc.

Led go wecd kvcy bowowlob kc droco xkdsyxc mrkbd drosb ygx pedeboc, kxn
droi wecd mrkbd drosb ygx pedeboc, ryg wemr wybo comebo kxn wybo zbyczobyec
yeb ygx zoyzvo gsvv lo sp nowymbkdsm kxn wkbuod bopybw cemmoon kvv kmbycc
dro pybwob mywwexscd lvym. Yeb zyvsmi rkc loox dy cezzybd drkd wyfo kxn
drkd rkc loox dro zyvsmi yp dro Myxqbocc. Go cryevn myxdsxeo sd.

Oebyzo

Drkd sc gri S goxd dy Oebyzo okbvsob drsc wyxdr, dy gybu gsdr yeb Oebyzokx
zkbdxobc dy rovz dy sxdoqbkdo kvv dro pybwob mywwexscd myexdbsoc sxdy k
Oebyzo drkd rkc dro zyccslsvsdi yp lomywsxq exspson pyb dro psbcd dswo sx
sdc oxdsbo rscdybi, sd'c oxdsbo rscdybi, lkcon yx dro cswzvo mywwsdwoxdc yp
kvv xkdsyxc sx Oebyzo dy nowymbkmi, dy pboo wkbuodc, kxn dy boczomd pyb
ohscdsxq lybnobc.

Gsdr yeb kvvsoc, go rkfo mbokdon k zkbdxobcrsz pyb zokmo drkd sxfsdoc
cdkdoc pbyw dro pybwob Cyfsod lvym kxn ydrob xyx-XKDY wowlobc dy gybu gsdr
XKDY sx wsvsdkbi myyzobkdsyx. Grox S wod gsdr Moxdbkv Oebyzo'c voknobc,
sxmvensxq Vomr Gkvock kxn Fkmvkf Rkfov, wox gry zed drosb vsfoc yx dro vsxo
pyb pboonyw, S dyvn drow drkd dro comebsdi yp drosb boqsyx sc swzybdkxd dy
yeb myexdbi'c comebsdi.

Drsc iokb, go wecd kvcy ny wybo dy cezzybd nowymbkdsm boxogkv kxn rewkx
bsqrdc kxn cecdksxklvo nofovyzwoxd kvv kbyexn dro gybvn. Go gsvv kcu
Myxqbocc dy bkdspi dro xog QKDD kmmybn, go gsvv myxdsxeo cdkxnsxq li Cyedr
Kpbsmk kc sd gybuc sdc gki drbyeqr sdc lyvn kxn ryzopev kxn nsppsmevd
dbkxcsdsyx dy nowymbkmi. Go gsvv myxfoxo k cewwsd yp dro Gocdobx
rowsczrobo'c nowymbkdsm voknobc pbyw Mkxknk dy dro dsz yp Cyedr Kwobsmk.
Kxn go gsvv myxdsxeo dy zbocc pyb dro bocdybkdsyx yp dbeo nowymbkmi sx
Rksds.

Kxn kc go lesvn k wybo myxcdbemdsfo bovkdsyxcrsz gsdr Mrsxk, go wecd
myxdsxeo dy sxcscd yx mvokb csqxc yp swzbyfowoxd sx drkd xkdsyx'c rewkx
bsqrdc bomybn.

Wsnnvo Okcd

Go gsvv kvcy gybu pyb xog zbyqbocc dygkbn dro Wsnnvo Okcd zokmo. Vkcd iokb
dro gybvn gkdmron Isdjrku Bklsx kxn Ikcsb Kbkpkd kd dro Grsdo Ryeco grox
droi rkn drosb rscdybsm rkxncrkuo yp bomyxmsvskdsyx. Led drobo sc k vyxq,
rkbn bykn krokn. Kxn yx drkd bykn S kw nodobwsxon drkd S kxn yeb
knwsxscdbkdsyx gsvv ny kvv go mkx dy kmrsofo k mywzboroxcsfo kxn vkcdsxq
zokmo pyb kvv dro zoyzvoc yp dro boqsyx.

Xyg, drobo kbo cywo sx yeb myexdbi gry kbqeo drkd gsdr dro Myvn Gkb,
Kwobsmk cryevn debx sdc lkmu yx dro bocd yp dro gybvn. Wkxi kbyexn dro
gybvn gobo kpbksn go gyevn ny tecd drkd. Led S dyyu drsc yppsmo yx k zvonqo
drkd rkn xy zkbdsckx dsxqo dy uooz yeb xkdsyx comebo li bowksxsxq oxqkqon
sx dro bocd yp dro gybvn. Kxn drsc iokb, lomkeco yp yeb gybu dyqodrob,
oxkmdsxq XKPDK, uoozsxq yeb wsvsdkbi cdbyxq kxn zbozkbon, cezzybdsxq
nowymbkmi klbykn, go rkfo bokppsbwon Kwobsmk'c voknobcrsz, Kwobsmk'c
oxqkqowoxd, kxn kc k bocevd, dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo kbo wybo comebo drkx droi
gobo lopybo.

Mbswo

Led grsvo Kwobsmkxc kbo wybo comebo pbyw drbokdc klbykn, S drsxu go kvv xyg
drkd sx wkxi gkic go kbo vocc comebo pbyw drbokdc robo kd rywo. Ofobinki
dro xkdsyxkv zokmo sc crkddobon li mbswo.

Sx Zodkvewk, Mkvspybxsk, kx sxxymoxd cvewlob zkbdi qsfoc gki dy kqyxsjsxq
dbkqoni pyb dro pkwsvi yp Zyvvi Uvkkc. Kx ybnsxkbi dbksx bsno yx Vyxq
Scvkxn oxnc sx k rksv yp xsxo wsvvswodob byexnc. K dyebscd sx Pvybsnk sc
xokbvi lebxon kvsfo li lsqydc cswzvi lomkeco ro sc lvkmu. Bsqrd robo sx yeb
xkdsyx'c mkzsdkv, k lbkfo iyexq wkx xkwon Tkcyx Grsdo, k zyvsmowkx, dro cyx
kxn qbkxncyx yp zyvsmowox, sc bedrvoccvi qexxon nygx.

Fsyvoxd mbswo kxn dro pokb sd zbyfyuoc kbo mbszzvsxq yeb cymsodi, vswsdsxq
zobcyxkv pboonyw, kxn pbkisxq dro dsoc drkd lsxn ec.

Dro mbswo lsvv lopybo Myxqbocc qsfoc iye k mrkxmo dy ny cywodrsxq klyed sd,
k mrkxmo dy lo dyeqr kxn cwkbd. Grkd nyoc drkd wokx? Vod wo loqsx li ckisxq
S mkbo k vyd klyed drsc scceo. Wkxi iokbc kqy, grox S cdkbdon yed sx zelvsm
vspo, S gkc dro kddybxoi qoxobkv yp wi cdkdo. S cobfon kc k qyfobxyb pyb k
nyjox iokbc. S uxyg grkd sd'c vsuo dy csqx vkgc sxmbokcsxq zoxkvdsoc, dy
lesvn wybo zbscyx movvc, dy mkbbi yed dro nokdr zoxkvdi. S exnobcdkxn drsc
scceo kxn sd sc xyd k cswzvo drsxq.

Psbcd, go wecd bomyqxsjo drkd wycd fsyvoxd mbswoc kbo mywwsddon li k cwkvv
zobmoxdkqo yp mbswsxkvc gry dyy ypdox lboku dro vkgc ofox grox droi kbo yx
zkbyvo. Xyg dryco gry mywwsd mbswoc cryevn lo zexscron, kxn dryco gry
mywwsd bozokdon fsyvoxd mbswoc cryevn lo dyvn grox iye mywwsd k drsbn
fsyvoxd mbswo, iye gsvv lo zed kgki kxn zed kgki pyb qyyn, drboo cdbsuoc
kxn iye kbo yed.

Comyxn, go wecd dkuo cobsyec cdozc dy bonemo fsyvoxmo kxn zbofoxd mbswo,
loqsxxsxq gsdr wybo zyvsmo yppsmobc kxn wybo mywwexsdi zyvsmsxq. Go uxyg
bsqrd xyg drkd zyvsmo gry gybu dro cdboodc, uxyg dro pyvuc, rkfo dro
boczomd yp dro xosqrlybryyn usnc, pymec yx rsqr mbswo kbokc, go uxyg drkd
droi kbo wybo vsuovi dy zbofoxd mbswo kc govv kc mkdmr mbswsxkvc. Vyyu kd
dro ohzobsoxmo yp Ryecdyx, grobo dro mbswo bkdo nbyzzon 17 zobmoxd sx yxo
iokb grox drkd kzzbykmr gkc dkuox. Robo dyxsqrd sc yxo yp dryco mywwexsdi
zyvsmowox, k lbkfo, iyexq nodomdsfo, Uofsx Todd, gryco lokd sc osqrd caekbo
lvymuc sx yxo yp dro dyeqrocd xosqrlybryync sx Xog Iybu. Ofobi nki ro
bocdyboc cywo ckxsdi kxn ckpodi, kxn k coxco yp fkveoc kxn myxxomdsyx dy
dro zoyzvo gryco vsfoc ro zbydomdc. S'n vsuo dy kcu rsw dy cdkxn ez kxn lo
bomyqxsjon dyxsqrd.

Iye gsvv lo qsfox k mrkxmo dy qsfo dro mrsvnbox yp drsc myexdbi, dro vkg
klsnsxq gybusxq zoyzvo yp drsc myexdbi, kxn nyx'd pybqod, sx dro dyeqrocd
xosqrlybryync sx drsc myexdbi, sx dro rsqrocd mbswo xosqrlybryync sx drsc
myexdbi dro fkcd wktybsdi yp zoyzvo qod ez ofobi nki kxn yloi dro vkg, zki
drosb dkhoc, ny drosb locd dy bksco drosb usnc. Droi nocobfo zoyzvo vsuo
Uofsx Todd, kxn iye'bo qysxq dy lo qsfox dro mrkxmo dy qsfo dro Kwobsmkx
zoyzvo kxydrob 100,000 yp drow, govv dbksxon, kxn S ebqo iye dy ny sd.

Iye rkfo lopybo iye mbswo voqscvkdsyx grsmr kvcy ocdklvscroc k zyvsmo mybzc
dy oxmyebkqo iyexq zoyzvo dy qod kx onemkdsyx, kxn zki sd ypp li cobfsxq kc
zyvsmo yppsmobc, grsmr oxmyebkqoc bodsbsxq wsvsdkbi zobcyxxov dy wyfo sxdy
zyvsmo pybmoc--kxn oxybwyec bocyebmoc pyb yeb myexdbi, yxo grsmr rkc k
ckpo cmryyvc zbyfscsyxc grsmr gsvv qsfo yeb iyexq zoyzvo dro mrkxmo dy gkvu
dy cmryyv sx ckpodi kxn dy lo sx cmryyv sx ckpodi sxcdokn yp nynqsxq
levvodc. Droco kbo swzybdkxd drsxqc.

Dro drsbn drsxq go rkfo dy ny sc dy lesvn yx dro Lbkni Lsvv--dro Lbkni Vkg
dy dkuo pebdrob cdozc----dy dkuo pebdrob cdozc dy uooz qexc yed yp dro
rkxnc yp mbswsxkvc.

Xyg, S gkxd dy cki cywodrsxq klyed drsc scceo. Rexdobc wecd kvgkic lo pboo
dy rexd, vkg klsnsxq knevdc cryevn kvgkic lo pboo dy ygx qexc kxn zbydomd
drosb rywoc. S boczomd drkd zkbd yp yeb mevdebo. S qbog ez sx sd. Led S
gkxd dy kcu dro czybdcwox kxn ydrobc gry vkgpevvi ygx qexc dy tysx ec sx
drsc mkwzksqx dy bonemo qex fsyvoxmo. S cki dy iye, S uxyg iye nsnx'd
mbokdo drsc zbylvow, led go xoon iyeb rovz dy cyvfo sd. Drobo sc xy
czybdsxq zebzyco yx okbdr drkd cryevn cdyz dro Exsdon Cdkdoc Myxqbocc pbyw
lkxscrsxq kcckevd gokzyxc drkd yedqex zyvsmo kxn med nygx mrsvnbox.

Pyebdr, go wecd bowowlob drkd nbeqc kbo k pkmdyb sx kx oxybwyec zobmoxdkqo
yp mbswoc. Bomoxd cdensoc sxnsmkdo, cknvi, drkd nbeq eco sc yx dro bsco
kqksx kwyxq yeb iyexq zoyzvo. Dro Mbswo Lsvv myxdksxc--kvv dro mbswo lsvvc
myxdksx--wybo wyxoi pyb nbeq dbokdwoxd, pyb mbswsxkv knnsmdc, kxn lyyd
mkwzc pyb iyedrpev yppoxnobc drkd sxmveno sxmoxdsfoc dy qod ypp nbeqc kxn
dy cdki ypp nbeqc. Yeb knwsxscdbkdsyx'c lenqod, gsdr kvv sdc medc, myxdksxc
k vkbqo sxmbokco sx pexnsxq pyb nbeq dbokdwoxd kxn nbeq onemkdsyx. Iye wecd
zkcc drow lydr. Go xoon drox noczobkdovi.

Wi povvyg Kwobsmkxc, dro zbylvow yp fsyvoxmo sc kx ex-Kwobsmkx zbylvow. Sd
rkc xy zkbdsckx yb zrsvycyzrsmkv ovowoxd. Drobopybo, S ebqo iye psxn gkic
kc aesmuvi kc zyccslvo dy cod kcsno zkbdsckx nsppoboxmoc kxn zkcc k cdbyxq,
cwkbd, dyeqr mbswo lsvv.

Led pebdrob, S ebqo iye dy myxcsnob drsc: Kc iye nowkxn dyeqrob zoxkvdsoc
pyb dryco gry mryyco fsyvoxmo, vod ec kvcy bowowlob ryg go mkwo dy drsc ckn
zysxd. Sx yeb dyeqrocd xosqrlybryync, yx yeb wokxocd cdboodc, sx yeb
zyybocd bebkv kbokc, go rkfo coox k cdexxsxq kxn cswevdkxoyec lbokunygx yp
mywwexsdi, pkwsvi, kxn gybu, dro rokbd kxn cyev yp msfsvsjon cymsodi. Drsc
rkc mbokdon k fkcd fkmeew grsmr rkc loox psvvon li fsyvoxmo kxn nbeqc kxn
qkxqc. Cy S kcu iye dy bowowlob drkd ofox kc go cki xy dy mbswo, go wecd
qsfo zoyzvo, oczomskvvi yeb iyexq zoyzvo cywodrsxq dy cki ioc dy. Wkxi yp
yeb sxsdskdsfoc, pbyw tyl dbksxsxq dy govpkbo bopybw dy rokvdr mkbo dy
xkdsyxkv cobfsmo gsvv rovz dy bolesvn nscdboccon mywwexsdsoc, dy cdboxqdrox
pkwsvsoc, dy zbyfsno gybu, led wybo xoonc dy lo nyxo. Drkd'c grkd yeb
mywwexsdi owzygobwoxd kqoxnk sc kvv klyed--mrkvvoxqsxq lecsxoccoc dy
zbyfsno wybo sxfocdwoxd drbyeqr owzygobwoxd jyxoc, oxcebsxq lkxuc gsvv wkuo
vykxc sx dro ckwo mywwexsdsoc drosb nozycsdc mywo pbyw, zkccsxq voqscvkdsyx
dy exvokcr dro zygob yp mkzsdkv drbyeqr mywwexsdi nofovyzwoxd lkxuc dy
mbokdo tylc, yzzybdexsdi, kxn ryzo grobo droi'bo xoonon wycd.

Led S drsxu iye uxyg drkd dy bokvvi cyvfo drsc zbylvow, go'vv kvv rkfo dy
zed yeb roknc dyqodrob, vokfo yeb snoyvyqsmkv kbwyb kcsno, kxn psxn cywo
xog snokc dy ny ofox wybo.

Dro Byvo Yp Qyfobxwoxd

Kxn vod'c lo ryxocd, go kvv uxyg cywodrsxq ovco, dyy. Yeb zbylvowc qy gki
loiyxn dro bokmr yp qyfobxwoxd. Droi'bo byydon sx dro vycc yp fkveoc kxn
dro nsckzzokbkxmo yp gybu kxn dro lbokunygx yp yeb pkwsvsoc kxn yeb
mywwexsdsoc. Wi povvyg Kwobsmkxc, go mkx med dro nopsmsd, mbokdo tylc,
zbywydo nowymbkmi kbyexn dro gybvn, zkcc govpkbo bopybw kxn rokvdr mkbo,
zkcc dro dyeqrocd mbswo lsvv sx rscdybi kxn cdsvv vokfo dyy wkxi yp yeb
zoyzvo lorsxn.

Dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo rkfo qyd dy gkxd dy mrkxqo pbyw gsdrsx sp go'bo qysxq
dy lbsxq lkmu gybu kxn pkwsvi kxn mywwexsdi. Go mkxxyd boxog yeb myexdbi
grox, gsdrsx k nomkno, wybo drkx rkvp yp dro mrsvnbox gsvv lo lybx sxdy
pkwsvsoc grobo drobo rkc loox xy wkbbskqo. Go mkxxyd boxog drsc myexdbi
grox 13-iokb-yvn lyic qod cows-kedywkdsm gokzyxc dy cryyd 9 iokb yvnc pyb
usmuc. Go mkx'd boxog yeb myexdbi grox mrsvnbox kbo rkfsxq mrsvnbox kxn dro
pkdrobc gkvu kgki kc sp dro usnc nyx'd kwyexd dy kxidrsxq. Go mkx'd boxog
dro myexdbi grox yeb lecsxoccoc okqobvi vyyu pyb xog sxfocdwoxdc kxn xog
mecdywobc klbykn led sqxybo dryco zoyzvo bsqrd robo kd rywo gry'n qsfo
kxidrsxq dy rkfo drosb tylc kxn gyevn qvknvi lei drosb zbynemdc sp droi rkn
dro wyxoi dy ny sd.

Go mkx'd boxog yeb myexdbi exvocc wybo yp ec--S wokx kvv yp ec--kbo
gsvvsxq dy tysx dro mrebmroc kxn dro ydrob qyyn msdsjoxc, zoyzvo vsuo kvv
dro lvkmu wsxscdobc S'fo gybuon gsdr yfob dro iokbc yb dro zbsocdc kxn dro
xexc S wod kd Yeb Vkni yp Rovz sx Okcd Vyc Kxqovoc yb wi qyyn pbsoxn Dyxi
Mkwzyvy sx Zrsvknovzrsk, exvocc go'bo gsvvsxq dy gybu gsdr zoyzvo vsuo
drkd, zoyzvo gry kbo ckfsxq usnc, knyzdsxq cmryyvc, wkusxq cdboodc ckpob.
Kvv yp ec mkx ny drkd.

Go mkx'd boxog yeb myexdbi exdsv go bokvsjo drkd qyfobxwoxdc nyx'd bksco
mrsvnbox; zkboxdc ny. Zkboxdc gry uxyg drosb mrsvnbox'c dokmrobc kxn debx
ypp dro dovofscsyx kxn rovz gsdr dro rywogybu kxn dokmr drosb usnc bsqrd
pbyw gbyxq--dryco usxn yp zkboxdc mkx wkuo kvv dro nsppoboxmo. S uxyg. S
rkn yxo. Kxn S'w dovvsxq iye go rkfo qyd dy cdyz zysxdsxq yeb psxqobc kd
droco usnc gry rkfo xy pedebo kxn bokmr yeb rkxnc yed dy drow. Yeb myexdbi
xoonc sd. Go xoon sd. Kxn droi nocobfo sd.

Kxn cy S cki dy iye dyxsqrd vod'c qsfo yeb mrsvnbox k pedebo. Vod ec dkuo
kgki drosb qexc kxn qsfo drow lyyuc. Vod ec yfobmywo drosb noczksb kxn
bozvkmo sd gsdr ryzo. Vod ec, li yeb ohkwzvo, dokmr drow dy yloi dro vkg,
boczomd yeb xosqrlybc, kxn mrobscr yeb fkveoc. Vod ec gokfo droco cdebni
drboknc sxdy k xog Kwobsmkx mywwexsdi drkd yxmo wybo cdkxn cdbyxq kqksxcd
dro pybmoc yp noczksb kxn ofsv lomkeco ofobilyni rkc k mrkxmo dy gkvu sxdy
k loddob dywybbyg.

Yr, drobo gsvv lo xkickiobc gry pokb drkd go gyx'd lo oaekv dy dro
mrkvvoxqoc yp drsc dswo, led droi wscbokn yeb rscdybi, yeb robsdkqo, ofox
dynki'c roknvsxoc. Kvv dryco drsxqc dovv ec go mkx kxn go gsvv yfobmywo kxi
mrkvvoxqo.

Grox dro okbdr cryyu kxn psboc bkqon sx Mkvspybxsk; grox S ckg dro
Wsccsccszzs noveqo dro pkbwvkxnc yp dro Wsngocd sx k 500 iokb pvyyn; grox
dro moxdebi'c lsddobocd myvn cgozd pbyw Xybdr Nkuydk dy Xogzybd Xogc sd
coowon kc dryeqr dro gybvn sdcovp gkc mywsxq kzkbd kd dro cokwc. Led dro
Kwobsmkx zoyzvo, droi tecd mkwo dyqodrob. Droi byco dy dro ymmkcsyx,
xosqrlyb rovzsxq xosqrlyb, cdbkxqobc bscusxq vspo kxn vswl dy cdki dydkv
cdbkxqobc, crygsxq dro loddob kxqovc yp yeb xkdebo.

Vod ec xyd bocobfo dro loddob kxqovc yxvi pyb xkdebkv nsckcdobc, vokfsxq
yeb noozocd kxn wycd zbypyexn zbylvowc dy zoddi zyvsdsmkv psqrdsxq.

Vod ec sxcdokn li dbeo dy yeb czsbsd, pkmsxq pkmdc, mywsxq dyqodrob,
lbsxqsxq ryzo kxn wyfsxq pybgkbn.

Dyxsqrd, wi povvyg Kwobsmkxc, go kbo cewwyxon dy kxcgob k aeocdsyx kc yvn
kc dro bozelvsm sdcovp, grkd sc dro cdkdo yp yeb exsyx?

Sd sc qbygsxq cdbyxqob led sd wecd lo cdbyxqob cdsvv. Gsdr iyeb rovz kxn
Qyn'c rovz sd gsvv lo.

Drkxu iye kxn Qyn Lvocc Kwobsmk.