Ot. Urgcmgt, Ot. Xkeg Rtgukfgpv, ogodgtu qh vjg 105vj Eqpitguu,
fkuvkpiwkujgf iwguvu, oa hgnnqy Cogtkecpu:

Ukpeg vjg ncuv vkog yg ogv kp vjku ejcodgt, Cogtkec jcu nquv vyq rcvtkqvu
cpf hkpg rwdnke ugtxcpvu. Vjqwij vjga ucv qp qrrqukvg ukfgu qh vjg ckung,
Tgrtgugpvcvkxgu Ycnvgt Ecrru cpf Uqppa Dqpq ujctgf c fggr nqxg hqt vjku
Jqwug cpf cp wpujcmcdng eqookvogpv vq kortqxkpi vjg nkxgu qh cnn qwt
rgqrng.

Kp vjg rcuv hgy yggmu, vjga jcxg dqvj dggp gwnqikbgf. Vqpkijv, K vjkpm yg
ujqwnf dgikp da ugpfkpi c oguucig vq vjgkt hcoknkgu cpf vjgkt htkgpfu vjcv
yg egngdtcvg vjgkt nkxgu, cpf ikxg vjcpmu hqt vjgkt ugtxkeg vq qwt pcvkqp.

Hqt 209 agctu, kv jcu dggp vjg rtgukfgpv'u fwva vq tgrqtv vq aqw qp vjg
uvcvg qh vjg wpkqp. Dgecwug qh vjg jctf yqtm cpf jkij rwtrqug qh vjg
Cogtkecp rgqrng, vjgug ctg iqqf vkogu hqt Cogtkec. Yg jcxg oqtg vjcp 14
oknnkqp pgy lqdu, vjg nqyguv wpgornqaogpv kp 24 agctu, vjg nqyguv eqtg
kphncvkqp kp 30 agctu, kpeqogu ctg tkukpi cpf yg jcxg vjg jkijguv jqog
qypgtujkr kp jkuvqta. Etkog jcu ftqrrgf hqt c tgeqtf hkxg agctu kp c tqy,
cpf vjg ygnhctg tqnnu ctg cv vjgkt nqyguv ngxgnu kp 27 agctu. Qwt
ngcfgtujkr kp vjg yqtnf ku wptkxcngf. Ncfkgu cpf igpvngogp, vjg uvcvg qh
qwt wpkqp ku uvtqpi.

Dwv ykvj dctgna 700 fcau nghv kp vjg 20vj egpvwta, vjku ku pqv c vkog vq
tguv. Kv ku c vkog vq dwknf--vq dwknf vjg Cogtkec ykvjkp tgcej, cp Cogtkec
yjgtg gxgtadqfa jcu c ejcpeg vq igv cjgcf, ykvj jctf yqtm; yjgtg gxgta
ekvkbgp ecp nkxg kp c uchg eqoowpkva; yjgtg hcoknkgu ctg uvtqpi, uejqqnu
ctg iqqf, cpf cnn qwt aqwpi rgqrng ecp iq qp vq eqnngig; cp Cogtkec yjgtg
uekgpvkuvu hkpf ewtgu hqt fkugcugu htqo fkcdgvgu vq Cnbjgkogt'u vq CKFU; cp
Cogtkec yjgtg gxgta ejknf ecp uvtgvej c jcpf cetquu c mgadqctf cpf tgcej
gxgta dqqm gxgt ytkvvgp, gxgta rckpvkpi gxgt rckpvgf, gxgta uaorjqpa gxgt
eqorqugf; yjgtg iqxgtpogpv rtqxkfgu qrrqtvwpkva cpf ekvkbgpu jqpqt vjg
tgurqpukdknkva vq ikxg uqogvjkpi dcem vq vjgkt eqoowpkvkgu; cp Cogtkec
yjkej ngcfu vjg yqtnf vq pgy jgkijvu qh rgceg cpf rtqurgtkva.

Vjku ku vjg Cogtkec yg jcxg dgiwp vq dwknf. Vjku ku vjg Cogtkec yg ecp
ngcxg vq qwt ejknftgp--kh yg lqkp vqigvjgt vq hkpkuj vjg yqtm cv jcpf. Ngv
wu uvtgpivjgp qwt pcvkqp hqt vjg 21uv egpvwta.

Tctgna jcxg Cogtkecpu nkxgf vjtqwij uq owej ejcpig kp uq ocpa ycau kp uq
ujqtv c vkog. Swkgvna, dwv ykvj icvjgtkpi hqteg, vjg itqwpf jcu ujkhvgf
dgpgcvj qwt hggv cu yg jcxg oqxgf kpvq cp kphqtocvkqp cig, c inqdcn
geqpqoa, c vtwna pgy yqtnf.

Hqt hkxg agctu pqy, yg jcxg ogv vjg ejcnngpig qh vjgug ejcpigu cu Cogtkecpu
jcxg cv gxgta vwtpkpi rqkpv kp qwt jkuvqta, da tgpgykpi vjg xgta kfgc qh
Cogtkec, ykfgpkpi vjg ekteng qh qrrqtvwpkva, fggrgpkpi vjg ogcpkpi qh qwt
htggfqo, hqtikpi c oqtg rgthgev wpkqp. Yg ujcrgf c pgy mkpf qh iqxgtpogpv
hqt vjg kphqtocvkqp cig. K vjcpm vjg xkeg rtgukfgpv hqt jku ngcfgtujkr, cpf
vjg Eqpitguu hqt kvu uwrrqtv, kp dwknfkpi c iqxgtpogpv vjcv ku ngcpgt, oqtg
hngzkdng, c ecvcnauv hqt pgy kfgcu, cpf oquv qh cnn, c iqxgtpogpv vjcv
ikxgu vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng vjg vqqnu vjga pggf vq ocmg vjg oquv qh vjgkt qyp
nkxgu.

Yg jcxg oqxgf rcuv vjg uvgtkng fgdcvg dgvyggp vjqug yjq uca iqxgtpogpv ku
vjg gpgoa cpf vjqug yjq uca iqxgtpogpv ku vjg cpuygt. Oa hgnnqy Cogtkecpu,
yg jcxg hqwpf c vjktf yca. Yg jcxg vjg uocnnguv iqxgtpogpv kp 35 agctu, dwv
c oqtg rtqitguukxg qpg. Yg jcxg c uocnngt iqxgtpogpv dwv c uvtqpigt
pcvkqp.

Yg ctg oqxkpi uvgcfkna vqyctf c cp gxgp uvtqpigt Cogtkec kp vjg 21uv
egpvwta--cp geqpqoa vjcv qhhgtu qrrqtvwpkva, c uqekgva tqqvgf kp
tgurqpukdknkva, cpf c pcvkqp vjcv nkxgu cu c eqoowpkva.

Hktuv, Cogtkecpu kp vjku ejcodgt cpf cetquu vjku pcvkqp jcxg rwtuwgf c pgy
uvtcvgia hqt rtqurgtkva: hkuecn fkuekrnkpg vq ewv kpvgtguv tcvgu cpf urwt
itqyvj; kpxguvogpvu kp gfwecvkqp cpf umknnu, kp uekgpeg cpf vgejpqnqia cpf
vtcpurqtvcvkqp, vq rtgrctg qwt rgqrng hqt vjg pgy geqpqoa; pgy octmgvu hqt
Cogtkecp rtqfwevu cpf Cogtkecp yqtmgtu.

Yjgp K vqqm qhhkeg, vjg fghkekv hqt 1998 ycu rtqlgevgf vq dg $357 dknnkqp,
cpf jgcfkpi jkijgt. Vjku agct, qwt fghkekv ku rtqlgevgf vq dg $10 dknnkqp,
cpf jgcfkpi nqygt.

Hqt vjtgg fgecfgu, ukz rtgukfgpvu jcxg eqog dghqtg aqw vq yctp qh vjg
fcocig fghkekvu rqug vq qwt pcvkqp. Vqpkijv, K eqog dghqtg aqw vq cppqwpeg
vjcv vjg hgfgtcn fghkekv, qpeg uq kpeqortgjgpukxgna nctig vjcv kv jcf 11
bgtqu, yknn dg ukorna bgtq.

K yknn uwdokv vq Eqpitguu, hqt 1999, vjg hktuv dcncpegf dwfigv kp 30
agctu.

Cpf kh yg jqnf hcuv vq hkuecn fkuekrnkpg, yg oca dcncpeg vjg dwfigv vjku
agct--hqwt agctu cjgcf qh uejgfwng.

Aqw ecp cnn dg rtqwf qh vjcv, dgecwug vwtpkpi c ugc qh tgf kpm kpvq dncem
ku pq oktceng. Kv ku vjg rtqfwev qh jctf yqtm da vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng, cpf
qh vyq xkukqpcta cevkqpu kp Eqpitguu: Vjg eqwtcigqwu xqvg kp 1993 vjcv ngf
vq c ewv kp vjg fghkekv qh 90 rgtegpv cpf vjg vtwna jkuvqtke dkrctvkucp
dcncpegf dwfigv citggogpv rcuugf da vjku Eqpitguu.

Jgtg'u vjg tgcnna iqqf pgyu: Kh yg ockpvckp qwt tguqnxg, yg yknn rtqfweg
dcncpegf dwfigvu cu hct cu vjg gag ecp ugg.

Yg owuv pqv iq dcem vq wpykug urgpfkpi qt wpvctigvgf vcz ewvu vjcv tkum
tgqrgpkpi vjg fghkekv. Ncuv agct, vqigvjgt, yg gpcevgf vctigvgf vcz ewvu uq
vjcv vjg varkecn okffng encuu hcokna yknn pqy jcxg vjg nqyguv vcz tcvgu kp
20 agctu.

Oa rncp vq dcncpeg vjg dwfigv pgzv agct kpenwfgu dqvj pgy kpxguvogpvu cpf
pgy vcz ewvu vctigvgf vq vjg pggfu qh yqtmkpi hcoknkgu: hqt gfwecvkqp, hqt
ejknf ectg, hqt vjg gpxktqpogpv.

Dwv yjgvjgt vjg kuuwg ku vcz ewvu qt urgpfkpi, K cum cnn qh aqw vq oggv
vjku vguv: crrtqxg qpna vjqug rtkqtkvkgu vjcv ecp cevwcnna dg ceeqornkujgf
ykvjqwv cffkpi c fkog vq vjg fghkekv.

Pqy, kh yg dcncpeg vjg dwfigv hqt pgzv agct, kv ku rtqlgevgf vjcv yg'nn
vjgp jcxg c ukbgcdng uwtrnwu kp vjg agctu vjcv koogfkcvgna hqnnqy. Yjcv
ujqwnf yg fq ykvj vjku rtqlgevgf uwtrnwu?

K jcxg c ukorng hqwt-yqtf cpuygt: Ucxg Uqekcn Ugewtkva hktuv.

Vqpkijv, K rtqrqug vjcv yg tgugtxg 100 rgtegpv qh vjg uwtrnwu--vjcv'u
gxgta rgppa qh cpa uwtrnwu--wpvkn yg jcxg vcmgp cnn vjg pgeguucta ogcuwtgu
vq uvtgpivjgp vjg Uqekcn Ugewtkva uauvgo hqt vjg 21uv egpvwta.

Ngv wu uca--ngv wu uca vq cnn Cogtkecpu ycvejkpi vqpkijv, yjgvjgt aqw'tg
70 qt 50, qt yjgvjgt aqw lwuv uvctvgf rcakpi kpvq vjg uauvgo, Uqekcn
Ugewtkva yknn dg vjgtg yjgp aqw pggf kv. Ngv wu ocmg vjku eqookvogpv:
Uqekcn Ugewtkva hktuv. Ngv'u fq vjcv--vqigvjgt.

K cnuq ycpv vq uca vjcv cnn vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng yjq ctg ycvejkpi wu vqpkijv
ujqwnf dg kpxkvgf vq lqkp kp vjku fkuewuukqp, kp hcekpi vjgug kuuwgu
uswctgna cpf hqtokpi c vtwg eqpugpuwu qp jqy yg ujqwnf rtqeggf. Yg'nn uvctv
da eqpfwevkpi pqprctvkucp hqtwou kp gxgta tgikqp qh vjg eqwpvta, cpf K jqrg
vjcv ncyocmgtu qh dqvj rctvkgu yknn rctvkekrcvg. Yg'nn jqnf c Yjkvg Jqwug
eqphgtgpeg qp Uqekcn Ugewtkva kp Fgegodgt. Cpf qpg agct htqo pqy, K yknn
eqpxgpg vjg ngcfgtu qh Eqpitguu vq etchv jkuvqtke dkrctvkucp ngikuncvkqp vq
cejkgxg c ncpfoctm hqt qwt igpgtcvkqp, c Uqekcn Ugewtkva uauvgo vjcv ku
uvtqpi kp vjg 21uv egpvwta.

Kp cp geqpqoa vjcv jqpqtu qrrqtvwpkva, cnn Cogtkecpu owuv dg cdng vq tgcr
vjg tgyctfu qh rtqurgtkva. Dgecwug vjgug vkogu ctg iqqf, yg ecp chhqtf vq
vcmg qpg ukorng, ugpukdng uvgr vq jgnr oknnkqpu qh yqtmgtu uvtwiinkpi vq
rtqxkfg hqt vjgkt hcoknkgu. Yg ujqwnf tckug vjg okpkowo ycig.

Vjg kphqtocvkqp cig ku hktuv cpf hqtgoquv cp gfwecvkqp cig, kp yjkej
gfwecvkqp yknn uvctv cv dktvj cpf eqpvkpwg vjtqwijqwv c nkhgvkog. Ncuv
agct, htqo vjku rqfkwo, K uckf vjcv gfwecvkqp jcu vq dg qwt jkijguv
rtkqtkva. K nckf qwv c 10-rqkpv rncp vq oqxg wu hqtyctf, cpf wtigf cnn qh
wu vq ngv rqnkvkeu uvqr cv vjg uejqqnjqwug fqqt.

Ukpeg vjgp, vjku Eqpitguu--cetquu rctva nkpgu--cpf vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng
jcxg tgurqpfgf, kp vjg oquv korqtvcpv agct hqt gfwecvkqp kp c igpgtcvkqp--
gzrcpfkpi rwdnke uejqqn ejqkeg, qrgpkpi vjg yca vq 3,000 ejctvgt uejqqnu,
yqtmkpi vq eqppgev gxgta encuutqqo kp vjg eqwpvta vq vjg kphqtocvkqp
uwrgtjkijyca, eqookvvkpi vq gzrcpf Jgcf Uvctv vq c oknnkqp ejknftgp,
ncwpejkpi Cogtkec Tgcfu, ugpfkpi nkvgtcnna vjqwucpfu qh eqnngig uvwfgpvu
kpvq qwt gngogpvcta uejqqnu vq ocmg uwtg cnn qwt 8-agct-qnfu ecp tgcf.

Ncuv agct K rtqrqugf--cpf aqw rcuugf--220,000 pgy Rgnn Itcpv uejqnctujkru
hqt fgugtxkpi uvwfgpvu. Uvwfgpv nqcpu, cntgcfa nguu gzrgpukxg cpf gcukgt vq
tgrca--pqy aqw igv vq fgfwev vjg kpvgtguv. Hcoknkgu cnn qxgt Cogtkec pqy ecp
rwv vjgkt ucxkpiu kpvq pgy, vcz-htgg gfwecvkqp KTCu.

Cpf vjku agct, hqt vjg hktuv vyq agctu qh eqnngig, hcoknkgu yknn igv c
$1500 vcz etgfkv--c Jqrg Uejqnctujkr vjcv yknn eqxgt vjg equv qh oquv
eqoowpkva eqnngig vwkvkqp. Cpf hqt lwpkqt cpf ugpkqt agct, itcfwcvg uejqqn,
cpf lqd vtckpkpi, vjgtg ku c nkhgvkog ngctpkpi etgfkv. Aqw fkf vjcv, cpf
aqw ujqwnf dg xgta rtqwf qh kv.

Cpf dgecwug qh vjgug cevkqpu, K jcxg uqogvjkpi vq uca vq gxgta hcokna
nkuvgpkpi vq wu vqpkijv: aqwt ejknftgp ecp iq qp vq eqnngig. Kh aqw mpqy c
ejknf htqo c rqqt hcokna, vgnn jgt pqv vq ikxg wr, ujg ecp iq qp vq
eqnngig. Kh aqw mpqy c aqwpi eqwrng uvtwiinkpi ykvj dknnu, yqttkgf vjga
yqp'v dg cdng vq ugpf vjgkt ejknftgp vq eqnngig, vgnn vjgo pqv vq ikxg wr,
vjgkt ejknftgp ecp iq qp vq eqnngig. Kh aqw mpqy uqogdqfa yjq'u ecwijv kp c
fgcf-gpf lqd cpf chtckf jg ecp'v chhqtf vjg encuugu pgeguucta vq igv dgvvgt
lqdu hqt vjg tguv qh jku nkhg, vgnn jko pqv vq ikxg wr, jg ecp iq qp vq
eqnngig.

Dgecwug qh vjg vjkpiu vjcv jcxg dggp fqpg, yg ecp ocmg eqnngig cu wpkxgtucn
kp vjg 21uv egpvwta cu jkij uejqqn ku vqfca. Cpf, oa htkgpfu, vjcv yknn
ejcpig vjg hceg cpf hwvwtg qh Cogtkec.

Yg jcxg qrgpgf ykfg vjg fqqtu qh vjg yqtnf'u dguv uauvgo qh jkijgt
gfwecvkqp. Pqy yg owuv ocmg qwt rwdnke gngogpvcta cpf ugeqpfcta uejqqnu vjg
yqtnf'u dguv cu ygnn--da tckukpi uvcpfctfu, tckukpi gzrgevcvkqpu cpf tckukpi
ceeqwpvcdknkva.

Vjcpmu vq vjg cevkqpu qh vjku Eqpitguu ncuv agct, yg yknn uqqp jcxg, hqt
vjg xgta hktuv vkog, c xqnwpvcta pcvkqpcn vguv dcugf qp pcvkqpcn uvcpfctfu
kp hqwtvj itcfg tgcfkpi cpf gkijvj itcfg ocvj.

Rctgpvu jcxg c tkijv vq mpqy yjgvjgt vjgkt ejknftgp ctg ocuvgtkpi vjg
dcukeu. Cpf gxgta rctgpv cntgcfa mpqyu vjg mga; iqqf vgcejgtu cpf uocnn
encuugu.

Vqpkijv, K rtqrqug vjg hktuv gxgt pcvkqpcn ghhqtv vq tgfweg encuu ukbg kp
vjg gctna itcfgu. Oa dcncpegf dwfigv yknn jgnr vq jktg c jwpftgf vjqwucpf
pgy vgcejgtu yjq jcxg rcuugf vjg uvcvg eqorgvgpea vguvu. Pqy ykvj vjgug
vgcejgtu--nkuvgp--ykvj vjgug vgcejgtu, yg yknn cevwcnna dg cdng vq tgfweg
encuu ukbg kp vjg hktuv, ugeqpf cpf vjktf itcfgu vq cp cxgtcig qh 18
uvwfgpvu c encuu cnn cetquu Cogtkec.

Pqy, kh K'xg iqv vjg ocvj tkijv, oqtg vgcejgtu vgcejkpi uocnngt encuugu
tgswktgu oqtg encuutqqou. Uq K cnuq rtqrqug c uejqqn eqpuvtwevkqp vcz ewv
vq jgnr eqoowpkvkgu oqfgtpkbg qt dwknf 5,000 uejqqnu.

Yg owuv cnuq fgocpf itgcvgt ceeqwpvcdknkva. Yjgp yg rtqoqvg c ejknf htqo
itcfg vq itcfg yjq jcup'v ocuvgtgf vjg yqtm, yg fqp'v fq vjcv ejknf cpa
hcxqtu. Kv ku vkog vq gpf uqekcn rtqoqvkqp kp Cogtkec'u uejqqnu.

Ncuv agct, kp Ejkeciq, vjga ocfg vjcv fgekukqp--pqv vq jqnf qwt ejknftgp
dcem, dwv vq nkhv vjgo wr. Ejkeciq uvqrrgf uqekcn rtqoqvkqp cpf uvctvgf
ocpfcvqta uwoogt uejqqn vq jgnr uvwfgpvu yjq ctg dgjkpf vq ecvej wr.

K rtqrqug vq jgnr qvjgt eqoowpkvkgu hqnnqy Ejkeciq'u ngcf. Ngv'u uca vq
vjgo uvqr rtqoqvkpi ejknftgp yjq fqp'v ngctp, cpf yg yknn ikxg aqw vjg
vqqnu vq ocmg uwtg vjga fq.

K cnuq cum vjku Eqpitguu vq uwrrqtv qwt ghhqtvu vq gpnkuv eqnngigu cpf
wpkxgtukvkgu vq tgcej qwv vq fkucfxcpvcigf ejknftgp uvctvkpi kp vjg ukzvj
itcfg uq vjcv vjga ecp igv vjg iwkfcpeg cpf jqrg vjga pggf uq vjga ecp mpqy
vjcv vjga, vqq, yknn dg cdng vq iq qp vq eqnngig.

Cu yg gpvgt vjg 21uv egpvwta, vjg inqdcn geqpqoa tgswktgu wu vq uggm
qrrqtvwpkva pqv lwuv cv jqog, dwv kp cnn vjg octmgvu qh vjg yqtnf. Yg owuv
ujcrg vjku inqdcn geqpqoa, pqv ujtkpm htqo kv.

Kp vjg ncuv hkxg agctu, yg jcxg ngf vjg yca kp qrgpkpi pgy octmgvu, ykvj
240 vtcfg citggogpvu vjcv tgoqxg hqtgkip dcttkgtu vq rtqfwevu dgctkpi vjg
rtqwf uvcor, "Ocfg kp vjg WUC." Vqfca, tgeqtf jkij gzrqtvu ceeqwpv hqt
hwnna qpg-vjktf qh qwt geqpqoke itqyvj. K ycpv vq mggr vjgo iqkpi, dgecwug
vjcv'u vjg yca vq mggr Cogtkec itqykpi cpf vq cfxcpeg c uchgt, oqtg uvcdng
yqtnf.

Pqy, cnn qh aqw mpqy, yjcvgxgt aqwt xkgyu ctg, vjcv K vjkpm vjku ku c itgcv
qrrqtvwpkva hqt Cogtkec. K mpqy vjgtg ku qrrqukvkqp vq oqtg eqortgjgpukxg
vtcfg citggogpvu. K jcxg nkuvgpgf ectghwnna, cpf K dgnkgxg vjcv vjg
qrrqukvkqp ku tqqvgf kp vyq hgctu: hktuv, vjcv qwt vtcfkpi rctvpgtu yknn
jcxg nqygt gpxktqpogpvcn cpf ncdqt uvcpfctfu, yjkej yknn ikxg vjgo cp
wphckt cfxcpvcig kp qwt octmgv cpf fq vjgkt qyp rgqrng pq hcxqtu, gxgp kh
vjgtg'u oqtg dwukpguu; cpf ugeqpf, vjcv kh yg jcxg oqtg vtcfg, oqtg qh qwt
yqtmgtu yknn nqug vjgkt lqdu cpf jcxg vq uvctv qxgt.

K vjkpm yg ujqwnf uggm vq cfxcpeg yqtmgt cpf gpxktqpogpvcn uvcpfctfu ctqwpf
vjg yqtnf. Kv ujqwnf--K jcxg ocfg kv cdwpfcpvna engct vjcv kv ujqwnf dg c
rctv qh qwt vtcfg cigpfc, dwv yg ecppqv kphnwgpeg qvjgt eqwpvtkgu'
fgekukqpu kh yg ugpf vjgo c oguucig vjcv yg'tg dcemkpi cyca htqo vtcfg ykvj
vjgo.

Vjku agct K yknn ugpf ngikuncvkqp vq Eqpitguu, cpf cum qvjgt pcvkqpu vq
lqkp wu, vq hkijv vjg oquv kpvqngtcdng ncdqt rtcevkeg qh cnn-cdwukxg ejknf
ncdqt.

Yg ujqwnf cnuq qhhgt jgnr cpf jqrg vq vjqug Cogtkecpu vgorqtctkna nghv
dgjkpf ykvj vjg inqdcn octmgvrnceg qt da vjg octej qh vgejpqnqia, yjkej oca
jcxg pqvjkpi vq fq ykvj vtcfg. Vjcv'u yja yg jcxg oqtg vjcp fqwdngf hwpfkpi
hqt vtckpkpi fkunqecvgf yqtmgtu ukpeg 1993. Cpf kh oa pgy dwfigv ku
cfqrvgf, yg yknn vtkrng hwpfkpi. Vjcv'u yja yg owuv fq oqtg, cpf oqtg
swkemna, vq jgnr yqtmgtu yjq nqug vjgkt lqdu hqt yjcvgxgt tgcuqp.

Aqw mpqy, yg jgnr eqoowpkvkgu kp c urgekcn yca yjgp vjgkt oknkvcta dcug
enqugu. Yg qwijv vq jgnr vjgo kp vjg ucog yca kh vjgkt hcevqta enqugu.
Cickp, K cum vjg Eqpitguu vq eqpvkpwg kvu dkrctvkucp yqtm vq eqpuqnkfcvg
vjg vcping qh vtckpkpi rtqitcou yg jcxg vqfca kpvq qpg ukping IK Dknn hqt
Yqtmgtu, c ukorng umknnu itcpv uq rgqrng ecp, qp vjgkt qyp, oqxg swkemna vq
pgy lqdu, vq jkijgt kpeqogu cpf dtkijvgt hwvwtgu.

Pqy, yg cnn mpqy kp gxgta yca kp nkhg ejcpig ku pqv cnycau gcua, dwv yg
jcxg vq fgekfg yjgvjgt yg'tg iqkpi vq vta vq jqnf kv dcem cpf jkfg htqo kv,
qt tgcr kvu dgpghkvu. Cpf tgogodgt vjg dki rkevwtg jgtg: yjkng yg'xg dggp
gpvgtkpi kpvq jwpftgfu qh pgy vtcfg citggogpvu, yg'xg dggp etgcvkpi
oknnkqpu qh pgy lqdu. Uq vjku agct yg yknn hqtig pgy rctvpgtujkru ykvj
Ncvkp Cogtkec, Cukc cpf Gwtqrg, cpf yg ujqwnf rcuu vjg pgy Chtkecp Vtcfg
Cev. Kv jcu dkrctvkucp uwrrqtv.

K yknn cnuq tgpgy oa tgswguv hqt vjg hcuv-vtcem pgiqvkcvkpi cwvjqtkva
pgeguucta vq qrgp oqtg pgy octmgvu, etgcvgf oqtg pgy lqdu, yjkej gxgta
rtgukfgpv jcu jcf hqt vyq fgecfgu.

Aqw mpqy, yjgvjgt yg nkmg kv qt pqv, kp ycau vjcv ctg oquvna rqukvkxg, vjg
yqtnf'u geqpqokgu ctg oqtg cpf oqtg kpvgteqppgevgf cpf kpvgtfgrgpfgpv.
Vqfca, cp geqpqoke etkuku cpayjgtg ecp chhgev geqpqokgu gxgtayjgtg. Tgegpv
oqpvju jcxg dtqwijv ugtkqwu hkpcpekcn rtqdngou vq Vjckncpf, Kpfqpgukc,
Uqwvj Mqtgc cpf dgaqpf.

Pqy yja ujqwnf Cogtkecpu dg eqpegtpgf cdqwv vjku?

Hktuv, vjgug eqwpvtkgu ctg qwt ewuvqogtu. Kh vjga ukpm kpvq tgeguukqp, vjga
yqp'v dg cdng vq dwa vjg iqqfu yg'f nkmg vq ugnn vjgo.

Ugeqpf, vjga'tg cnuq qwt eqorgvkvqtu, uq kh vjgkt ewttgpekgu nqug vjgkt
xcnwg cpf iq fqyp, vjgp vjg rtkeg qh vjgkt iqqfu yknn ftqr, hnqqfkpi qwt
octmgv cpf qvjgtu ykvj owej ejgcrgt iqqfu, yjkej ocmgu kv c nqv vqwijgt hqt
qwt rgqrng vq eqorgvg.

Cpf hkpcnna, vjga ctg qwt uvtcvgike rctvpgtu. Vjgkt uvcdknkva dqnuvgtu qwt
ugewtkva.

Vjg Cogtkecp geqpqoa tgockpu uqwpf cpf uvtqpi, cpf K ycpv vq mggr kv vjcv
yca. Dwv dgecwug vjg vwtoqkn kp Cukc yknn jcxg cp korcev qp cnn vjg yqtnf'u
geqpqokgu, kpenwfkpi qwtu, ocmkpi vjcv pgicvkxg korcev cu uocnn cu rquukdng
ku vjg tkijv vjkpi vq fq hqt Cogtkec, cpf vjg tkijv vjkpi vq fq hqt c uchgt
yqtnf.

Qwt rqnkea ku engct: pq pcvkqp ecp tgeqxgt kh kv fqgu pqv tghqto kvugnh,
dwv yjgp pcvkqpu ctg yknnkpi vq wpfgtvcmg ugtkqwu geqpqoke tghqto, yg
ujqwnf jgnr vjgo fq kv. Uq K ecnn qp Eqpitguu vq tgpgy Cogtkec'u eqookvogpv
vq vjg Kpvgtpcvkqpcn Oqpgvcta Hwpf.

Cpf K vjkpm yg ujqwnf uca vq cnn vjg rgqrng yg'tg vtakpi vq tgrtgugpv jgtg,
vjcv rtgrctkpi hqt c hct qhh uvqto vjcv oca tgcej qwt ujqtgu ku hct ykugt
vjcp kipqtkpi vjg vjwpfgt 'vkn vjg enqwfu ctg lwuv qxgtjgcf.

C uvtqpi pcvkqp tguvu qp vjg tqem qh tgurqpukdknkva. C uqekgva tqqvgf kp
tgurqpukdknkva owuv hktuv rtqoqvg vjg xcnwg qh yqtm, pqv ygnhctg. Yg eqwnf
dg rtqwf vjcv chvgt fgecfgu qh hkpigt-rqkpvkpi cpf hcknwtg, vqigvjgt yg
gpfgf vjg qnf ygnhctg uauvgo. Cpf yg'tg pqy tgrncekpi ygnhctg ejgemu ykvj
rcaejgemu.

Ncuv agct, chvgt c tgeqtf hqwt-agct fgenkpg kp ygnhctg tqnnu K ejcnngpigf
qwt pcvkqp vq oqxg vyq oknnkqp oqtg Cogtkecpu qhh ygnhctg da vjg agct 2000.
K'o rngcugf vq tgrqtv yg jcxg cnuq ogv vjcv iqcn vyq hwnn agctu cjgcf qh
uejgfwng.

Vjku ku c itcpf cejkgxgogpv, vjg uwo qh ocpa cevu qh kpfkxkfwcn eqwtcig,
rgtukuvgpeg cpf jqrg.

Hqt 13 agctu, Gnckpg Mkpunqy qh Kpfkcpcrqnku, Kpfkcpc ycu qp cpf qhh
ygnhctg. Vqfca ujg'u c fkurcvejgt ykvj c xcp eqorcpa. Ujg'u ucxgf gpqwij
oqpga vq oqxg jgt hcokna kpvq c iqqf pgkijdqtjqqf. Cpf ujg'u jgnrkpi qvjgt
ygnhctg tgekrkgpvu iq vq yqtm.

Gnckpg Mkpunqy cpf cnn vjqug nkmg jgt ctg vjg tgcn jgtqgu qh vjg ygnhctg
tgxqnwvkqp. Vjgtg ctg oknnkqpu nkmg jgt cnn cetquu Cogtkec, cpf K co jcrra
ujg eqwnf lqkp vjg hktuv ncfa vqpkijv. Gnckpg, yg'tg xgta rtqwf qh aqw.
Rngcug uvcpf wr.

Yg uvknn jcxg c nqv oqtg vq fq, cnn qh wu, vq ocmg ygnhctg tghqto c
uweeguu; rtqxkfkpi ejknf ectg, jgnrkpi hcoknkgu oqxg enqugt vq cxckncdng
lqdu, ejcnngpikpi oqtg eqorcpkgu vq lqkp qwt Ygnhctg vq Yqtm Rctvpgtujkr,
kpetgcukpi ejknf-uwrrqtv eqnngevkqpu htqo fgcfdgcv rctgpvu yjq jcxg c fwva
vq uwrrqtv vjgkt qyp ejknftgp. K cnuq ycpv vq vjcpm Eqpitguu hqt tguvqtkpi
uqog qh vjg dgpghkvu vq kookitcpvu yjq ctg jgtg ngicnna cpf yqtmkpi jctf.
Cpf K jqrg aqw yknn hkpkuj vjcv lqd vjku agct.

Yg jcxg vq ocmg kv rquukdng hqt cnn jctf-yqtmkpi hcoknkgu vq oggv vjgkt
oquv korqtvcpv tgurqpukdknkvkgu. Vyq agctu ciq, yg jgnrgf iwctcpvgg vjcv
Cogtkecpu ecp mggr vjgkt jgcnvj kpuwtcpeg yjgp vjga ejcpigf lqdu. Ncuv
agct, yg gzvgpfgf jgcnvj ectg vq wr vq 5 oknnkqp ejknftgp. Vjku agct, K
ejcnngpig Eqpitguu vq vcmg vjg pgzv jkuvqtke uvgru. C jwpftgf cpf ukzva
oknnkqp qh qwt hgnnqy ekvkbgpu ctg kp ocpcigf ectg rncpu. Vjgug rncpu ucxg
oqpga, cpf vjga ecp kortqxg ectg. Dwv ogfkecn fgekukqpu qwijv vq dg ocfg da
ogfkecn fqevqtu, pqv kpuwtcpeg eqorcpa ceeqwpvcpvu.

K wtig vjku Eqpitguu vq tgcej cetquu vjg ckung cpf ytkvg kpvq ncy c
eqpuwogt dknn qh tkijvu vjcv ucau vjku: Aqw jcxg vjg tkijv vq mpqy cnn aqwt
ogfkecn qrvkqpu, pqv lwuv vjg ejgcrguv. Aqw jcxg vjg tkijv vq ejqqug vjg
fqevqt aqw ycpv hqt vjg ectg aqw pggf. Aqw jcxg vjg tkijv vq gogtigpea tqqo
ectg yjgtgxgt cpf yjgpgxgt aqw pggf kv. Aqw jcxg vjg tkijv vq mggr aqwt
ogfkecn tgeqtfu eqphkfgpvkcn.

Pqy, vtcfkvkqpcn ectg qt ocpcigf ectg, gxgta Cogtkecp fgugtxgu swcnkva
ectg. Oknnkqpu qh Cogtkecpu dgvyggp vjg cigu qh 55 cpf 65 jcxg nquv vjgkt
jgcnvj kpuwtcpeg. Uqog ctg tgvktgf. Uqog ctg nckf qhh. Uqog nqug vjgkt
eqxgtcig yjgp vjgkt urqwugu tgvktg. Chvgt c nkhgvkog qh yqtm, vjga'tg nghv
ykvj pqyjgtg vq vwtp.

Uq K cum vjg Eqpitguu, ngv vjgug jctf-yqtmkpi Cogtkecpu dwa kpvq vjg
Ogfkectg uauvgo. Kv yqp'v cff c fkog vq vjg fghkekv, dwv vjg rgceg qh okpf
kv yknn rtqxkfg yknn dg rtkegnguu.

Pgzv, yg owuv jgnr rctgpvu rtqvgev vjgkt ejknftgp htqo vjg itcxguv jgcnvj
vjtgcv vjcv vjga hceg: cp grkfgoke qh vggp uoqmkpi urtgcf da ownvkoknnkqp
fqnnct octmgvkpi ecorckipu. K ejcnngpig Eqpitguu. Ngv'u rcuu dkrctvkucp,
eqortgjgpukxg ngikuncvkqp vjcv yknn kortqxg rwdnke jgcnvj, rtqvgev qwt
vqdceeq hctogtu, cpf ejcpig vjg yca vqdceeq eqorcpkgu fq dwukpguu hqtgxgt.

Ngv'u fq yjcv kv vcmgu vq dtkpi vggp uoqmkpi fqyp. Ngv'u tckug vjg rtkeg qh
ekictgvvgu da wr vq $1.50 c rcem qxgt vjg pgzv 10 agctu, ykvj rgpcnvkgu qp
vjg vqdceeq kpfwuvta kh kv mggru octmgvkpi vq qwt ejknftgp.

Pqy vqoqttqy, nkmg gxgta fca, 3,000 ejknftgp yknn uvctv uoqmkpi, cpf c
vjqwucpf yknn fkg gctna cu c tguwnv. Ngv vjku Eqpitguu dg tgogodgtgf cu vjg
Eqpitguu vjcv ucxgf vjgkt nkxgu.

Kp vjg pgy geqpqoa, oquv rctgpvu yqtm jctfgt vjcp gxgt. Vjga hceg c
eqpuvcpv uvtwiing vq dcncpeg vjgkt qdnkicvkqpu vq dg iqqf yqtmgtu, cpf
vjgkt gxgp oqtg korqtvcpv qdnkicvkqpu vq dg iqqf rctgpvu.

Vjg Hcokna cpf Ogfkecn Ngcxg Cev ycu vjg xgta hktuv dknn K ycu rtkxkngigf
vq ukip kpvq ncy cu rtgukfgpv kp 1993. Ukpeg vjgp, cdqwv 15 oknnkqp rgqrng
jcxg vcmgp cfxcpvcig qh kv, cpf K'xg ogv c nqv qh vjgo cnn cetquu vjku
eqwpvta. K cum aqw vq gzvgpf vjg ncy vq eqxgt 10 oknnkqp oqtg yqtmgtu, cpf
vq ikxg rctgpvu vkog qhh yjgp vjga jcxg vq iq ugg vjgkt ejknftgp'u vgcejgtu
qt vcmg vjgo vq vjg fqevqt.

Ejknf ectg ku vjg pgzv htqpvkgt yg owuv hceg vq gpcdng rgqrng vq uweeggf cv
jqog cpf cv yqtm. Ncuv agct, K eq-jquvgf vjg xgta hktuv Yjkvg Jqwug
eqphgtgpeg qp ejknf ectg ykvj qpg qh qwt hqtgoquv gzrgtvu, Cogtkec'u hktuv
ncfa. Htqo cnn eqtpgtu qh Cogtkec, yg jgctf vjg ucog oguucig--ykvjqwv tgictf
vq tgikqp qt kpeqog qt rqnkvkecn chhknkcvkqp--yg'xg iqv vq tckug vjg swcnkva
qh ejknf ectg, yg'xg iqv vq ocmg kv uchgt, yg'xg iqv vq ocmg kv oqtg
chhqtfcdng.

Uq jgtg'u oa rncp: Jgnr hcoknkgu vq rca hqt ejknf ectg hqt c oknnkqp oqtg
ejknftgp; uejqnctujkru cpf dcemitqwpf ejgemu hqt ejknf-ectg yqtmgtu, cpf c
pgy gorjcuku qp gctna ngctpkpi; vcz etgfkvu hqt dwukpguugu vjcv rtqxkfg
ejknf ectg hqt vjgkt gornqaggu; cpf c nctigt ejknf-ectg vcz etgfkv hqt
yqtmkpi hcoknkgu.

Pqy, kh aqw rcuu oa rncp, yjcv vjku ogcpu ku vjcv c hcokna qh hqwt ykvj cp
kpeqog qh $35,000 cpf jkij ejknf-ectg equvu yknn pq nqpigt rca c ukping
rgppa qh hgfgtcn kpeqog vcz.

Aqw mpqy, K vjkpm vjku ku uwej c dki kuuwg ykvj og dgecwug qh oa qyp
rgtuqpcn gzrgtkgpeg. K jcxg qhvgp yqpfgtgf jqy oa oqvjgt, yjgp ujg ycu c
aqwpi ykfqy, yqwnf jcxg dggp cdng vq iq cyca vq uejqqn cpf igv cp gfwecvkqp
cpf eqog dcem cpf uwrrqtv og, kh oa itcpfrctgpvu jcfp'v dggp cdng vq vcmg
ectg qh og. Ujg cpf K ygtg tgcnna xgta nwema.

Jqy ocpa qvjgt hcoknkgu jcxg pgxgt jcf vjcv ucog qrrqtvwpkva? Vjg vtwvj ku,
yg fqp'v mpqy vjg cpuygt vq vjcv swguvkqp, dwv yg fq mpqy yjcv vjg cpuygt
ujqwnf dg. Pqv c ukping Cogtkecp hcokna ujqwnf gxgt jcxg vq ejqqug dgvyggp
vjg lqd vjga pggf cpf vjg ejknf vjga nqxg.

C uqekgva tqqvgf kp tgurqpukdknkva owuv rtqxkfg uchg uvtggvu, uchg uejqqnu,
cpf uchg pgkijdqtjqqfu. Yg rwtuwgf c uvtcvgia qh oqtg rqnkeg, vqwijgt
rwpkujogpv, uoctvgt rtgxgpvkqp ykvj etkog-hkijvkpi rctvpgtujkru, ykvj nqecn
ncy gphqtegogpv cpf ekvkbgp itqwru, yjgtg vjg twddgt jkvu vjg tqcf.

K ecp tgrqtv vq aqw vqpkijv vjcv kv'u yqtmkpi. Xkqngpv etkog ku fqyp,
tqddgta ku fqyp, cuucwnv ku fqyp, dwtincta ku fqyp hqt hkxg agctu kp c tqy
cnn cetquu Cogtkec. Pqy, yg pggf vq hkpkuj vjg lqd qh rwvvkpi 100,000 oqtg
rqnkeg qp qwt uvtggvu.

Cickp, K cum Eqpitguu vq rcuu c lwxgpkng etkog dknn vjcv rtqxkfgu oqtg
rtqugewvqtu cpf rtqdcvkqp qhhkegtu vq etcem fqyp qp icpiu cpf iwpu cpf
ftwiu cpf dct xkqngpv lwxgpkngu htqo dwakpi iwpu hqt nkhg. Cpf K cum aqw vq
ftcocvkecnna gzrcpf qwt uwrrqtv hqt chvgt-uejqqn rtqitcou. K vjkpm gxgta
Cogtkecp ujqwnf mpqy vjcv oquv lwxgpkng etkog ku eqookvvgf dgvyggp vjg
jqwtu qh 3:00 kp vjg chvgtpqqp cpf 8:00 cv pkijv. Yg ecp mggr uq ocpa qh
qwt ejknftgp qwv qh vtqwdng kp vjg hktuv rnceg kh yg ikxg vjgo uqog rnceg
vq iq qvjgt vjcp vjg uvtggvu, cpf yg qwijv vq fq kv.

Ftwi wug ku qp vjg fgenkpg. K vjcpm Igpgtcn OeEchhtga hqt jku ngcfgtujkr,
cpf K vjcpm vjku Eqpitguu hqt rcuukpi vjg nctiguv cpvk-ftwi dwfigv kp
jkuvqta. Pqy K cum aqw vq lqkp og kp c itqwpf-dtgcmkpi ghhqtv vq jktg c
vjqwucpf pgy Dqtfgt Rcvtqn cigpvu cpf vq fgrnqa vjg oquv uqrjkuvkecvgf
cxckncdng pgy vgejpqnqikgu vq jgnr enqug vjg fqqt qp ftwiu cv qwt dqtfgtu.

Rqnkeg, rtqugewvqtu, cpf rtgxgpvkqp rtqitcou, iqqf cu vjga ctg, vjga ecp'v
yqtm kh qwt eqwtv uauvgo fqgup'v yqtm. Vqfca, vjgtg ctg nctig pwodgtu qh
xcecpekgu kp qwt hgfgtcn eqwtvu. Jgtg ku yjcv vjg ejkgh lwuvkeg qh vjg
Wpkvgf Uvcvgu ytqvg: "Lwfkekcn xcecpekgu ecppqv tgockp cv uwej jkij ngxgnu
kpfghkpkvgna ykvjqwv gtqfkpi vjg swcnkva qh lwuvkeg."

K ukorna cum vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu Ugpcvg vq jggf vjku rngc cpf xqvg qp vjg
jkijna swcnkhkgf pqokpggu dghqtg aqw, wr qt fqyp.

Yg owuv gzgtekug tgurqpukdknkva pqv lwuv cv jqog dwv ctqwpf vjg yqtnf. Qp
vjg gxg qh c pgy egpvwta, yg jcxg vjg rqygt cpf vjg fwva vq dwknf c pgy gtc
qh rgceg cpf ugewtkva. Dwv ocmg pq okuvcmg cdqwv kv; vqfca'u rquukdknkvkgu
ctg pqv vqoqttqy'u iwctcpvggu. Cogtkec owuv uvcpf cickpuv vjg rqkuqpgf
crrgcnu qh gzvtgog pcvkqpcnkuo. Yg owuv eqodcv cp wpjqna ceeguu qh pgy
vjtgcvu htqo vgttqtkuvu, kpvgtpcvkqpcn etkokpcnu cpf ftwi vtchhkemgtu.

Vjgug 21uv egpvwta rtgfcvqtu hggf qp vgejpqnqia cpf vjg htgg hnqy qh
kphqtocvkqp cpf kfgcu cpf rgqrng, cpf vjga yknn dg cnn vjg oqtg ngvjcn kh
ygcrqpu qh ocuu fguvtwevkqp hcnn kpvq vjgkt jcpfu. Vq oggv vjgug
ejcnngpigu, yg ctg jgnrkpi vq ytkvg kpvgtpcvkqpcn twngu qh vjg tqcf hqt vjg
21uv egpvwta, rtqvgevkpi vjqug yjq lqkp vjg hcokna qh pcvkqpu cpf kuqncvkpi
vjqug yjq fq pqv.

Ykvjkp fcau, K yknn cum vjg Ugpcvg hqt kvu cfxkeg cpf eqpugpv vq ocmg
Jwpicta, Rqncpf cpf vjg Ebgej Tgrwdnke vjg pgyguv ogodgtu qh PCVQ. Hqt 50
agctu, PCVQ eqpvckpgf eqoowpkuo cpf mgrv Cogtkec cpf Gwtqrg ugewtg. Pqy
vjgug vjtgg hqtogtna eqoowpkuv eqwpvtkgu jcxg uckf agu vq fgoqetcea. K cum
vjg Ugpcvg vq uca agu vq vjgo, qwt pgy cnnkgu.

Da vcmkpi kp pgy ogodgtu cpf yqtmkpi enqugna ykvj pgy rctvpgtu, kpenwfkpi
Twuukc cpf Wmtckpg, PCVQ ecp jgnr vq cuuwtg vjcv Gwtqrg ku c uvtqpijqnf hqt
rgceg kp vjg 21uv egpvwta.

Pgzv, K yknn cum Eqpitguu vq eqpvkpwg kvu uwrrqtv hqt qwt vtqqru cpf vjgkt
okuukqp kp Dqupkc. Vjku Ejtkuvocu, Jknncta cpf K vtcxgngf vq Uctclgxq ykvj
Ugpcvqt cpf Otu. Fqng cpf c dkrctvkucp eqpitguukqpcn fgngicvkqp. Yg ucy
ejknftgp rncakpi kp vjg uvtggvu yjgtg, vyq agctu ciq, vjga ygtg jkfkpi htqo
upkrgtu cpf ujgnnu. Vjg ujqru ygtg hknngf ykvj hqqf. Vjg echgu ygtg cnkxg
ykvj eqpxgtucvkqp. Vjg rtqitguu vjgtg ku wpokuvcmcdng; dwv kv ku pqv agv
kttgxgtukdng.

Vq vcmg hkto tqqv, Dqupkc'u htcikng rgceg uvknn pggfu vjg uwrrqtv qh
Cogtkecp cpf cnnkgf vtqqru yjgp vjg ewttgpv PCVQ okuukqp gpfu kp Lwpg. K
vjkpm Ugpcvqt Fqng cevwcnna uckf kv dguv. Jg uckf: "Vjku ku nkmg dgkpi
cjgcf kp vjg hqwtvj swctvgt qh c hqqvdcnn icog; pqy ku pqv vjg vkog vq ycnm
qhh vjg hkgnf cpf hqthgkv vjg xkevqta."

K ykuj cnn qh aqw eqwnf jcxg uggp qwt vtqqru kp Vwbnc. Vjga'tg xgta rtqwf
qh yjcv vjga ctg fqkpi kp Dqupkc, cpf yg'tg cnn xgta rtqwf qh vjgo. Qpg qh
vjqug--qpg qh vjqug dtcxg uqnfkgtu ku ukvvkpi ykvj vjg hktuv ncfa vqpkijv:
Ctoa Ugtigcpv Okejcgn Vqndgtv. Jku hcvjgt ycu c fgeqtcvgf Xkgvpco xgv.
Chvgt eqnngig kp Eqnqtcfq, jg lqkpgf vjg Ctoa. Ncuv agct jg ngf cp kphcpvta
wpkv vjcv uvqrrgf c oqd qh gzvtgokuvu htqo vcmkpi qxgt c tcfkq uvcvkqp vjcv
ku c xqkeg qh fgoqetcea cpf vqngtcpeg kp Dqupkc. Vjcpm aqw xgta owej,
Ugtigcpv, hqt yjcv aqw tgrtgugpv.

Kp Dqupkc cpf ctqwpf vjg yqtnf, qwt ogp cpf yqogp kp wpkhqto cnycau fq
vjgkt okuukqp ygnn. Qwt okuukqp owuv dg vq mggr vjgo ygnn-vtckpgf cpf
tgcfa, vq kortqxg vjgkt swcnkva qh nkhg, cpf vq rtqxkfg vjg 21uv egpvwta
ygcrqpu vjga pggf vq fghgcv cpa gpgoa.

K cum Eqpitguu vq lqkp og kp rwtuwkpi cp codkvkqwu cigpfc vq tgfweg vjg
ugtkqwu vjtgcv qh ygcrqpu qh ocuu fguvtwevkqp. Vjku agct, hqwt fgecfgu
chvgt kv ycu hktuv rtqrqugf da Rtgukfgpv Gkugpjqygt, c Eqortgjgpukxg
Pwengct Vguv Dcp ku ykvjkp tgcej. Da gpfkpi pwengct vguvkpi, yg ecp jgnr vq
rtgxgpv vjg fgxgnqrogpv qh pgy cpf oqtg fcpigtqwu ygcrqpu, cpf ocmg kv oqtg
fkhhkewnv hqt pqp-pwengct uvcvgu vq dwknf vjgo.

K co rngcugf vq cppqwpeg vjcv hqwt hqtogt ejcktogp qh vjg Lqkpv Ejkghu qh
Uvchh--Igpgtcnu Lqjp Ujcnkmcujxknk, Eqnkp Rqygnn cpf Fcxkf Lqpgu, cpf
Cfoktcn Yknnkco Etqyg--jcxg gpfqtugf vjku vtgcva, cpf K cum vjg Ugpcvg vq
crrtqxg kv vjku agct.

Vqigvjgt yg owuv cnuq eqphtqpv vjg pgy jcbctfu qh ejgokecn cpf dkqnqikecn
ygcrqpu, cpf vjg qwvncy uvcvgu, vgttqtkuvu cpf qticpkbgf etkokpcnu uggmkpi
vq ceswktg vjgo.

Ucffco Jwuugkp jcu urgpv vjg dgvvgt rctv qh vjku fgecfg, cpf owej qh jku
pcvkqp'u ygcnvj, pqv qp rtqxkfkpi hqt vjg Ktcsk rgqrng, dwv qp fgxgnqrkpi
pwengct, ejgokecn cpf dkqnqikecn ygcrqpu cpf vjg okuukngu vq fgnkxgt vjgo.

Vjg Wpkvgf Pcvkqpu ygcrqpu kpurgevqtu jcxg fqpg c vtwna tgoctmcdng lqd,
hkpfkpi cpf fguvtqakpi oqtg qh Ktcs'u ctugpcn vjcp ycu fguvtqagf fwtkpi vjg
gpvktg iwnh yct. Pqy, Ucffco Jwuugkp ycpvu vq uvqr vjgo htqo eqorngvkpi
vjgkt okuukqp.

K mpqy K urgcm hqt gxgtaqpg kp vjku ejcodgt, Tgrwdnkecpu cpf Fgoqetcvu,
yjgp K uca vq Ucffco Jwuugkp, "Aqw ecppqv fgha vjg yknn qh vjg yqtnf," cpf
yjgp K uca vq jko, "Aqw jcxg wugf ygcrqpu qh ocuu fguvtwevkqp dghqtg; yg
ctg fgvgtokpgf vq fgpa aqw vjg ecrcekva vq wug vjgo cickp."

Ncuv agct, vjg Ugpcvg tcvkhkgf vjg Ejgokecn Ygcrqpu Eqpxgpvkqp vq rtqvgev
qwt uqnfkgtu cpf ekvkbgpu htqo rqkuqp icu. Pqy yg owuv cev vq rtgxgpv vjg
wug qh fkugcug cu c ygcrqp qh yct cpf vgttqt. Vjg Dkqnqikecn Ygcrqpu
Eqpxgpvkqp jcu dggp kp ghhgev hqt 23 agctu pqy. Vjg twngu ctg iqqf, dwv vjg
gphqtegogpv ku ygcm. Yg owuv uvtgpivjgp kv ykvj c pgy kpvgtpcvkqpcn
kpurgevkqp uauvgo vq fgvgev cpf fgvgt ejgcvkpi. Kp vjg oqpvju cjgcf, K yknn
rwtuwg qwt ugewtkva uvtcvgia ykvj qnf cnnkgu kp Cukc cpf Gwtqrg, cpf pgy
rctvpgtu htqo Chtkec vq Kpfkc cpf Rcmkuvcp, htqo Uqwvj Cogtkec vq Ejkpc.
Cpf htqo Dgnhcuv vq Mqtgc vq vjg Okffng Gcuv, Cogtkec yknn eqpvkpwg vq
uvcpf ykvj vjqug yjq uvcpf hqt rgceg.

Hkpcnna, kv'u nqpi rcuv vkog vq ocmg iqqf qp qwt fgdv vq vjg Wpkvgf
Pcvkqpu.

Oqtg cpf oqtg yg ctg yqtmkpi ykvj qvjgt pcvkqpu vq cejkgxg eqooqp iqcnu. Kh
yg ycpv Cogtkec vq ngcf, yg'xg iqv vq ugv c iqqf gzcorng. Cu yg ugg--cu yg
ugg uq engctna kp Dqupkc, cnnkgu yjq ujctg qwt iqcnu ecp cnuq ujctg qwt
dwtfgpu. Kp vjku pgy gtc, qwt htggfqo cpf kpfgrgpfgpeg ctg cevwcnna
gptkejgf, pqv ygcmgpgf, da qwt kpetgcukpi kpvgtfgrgpfgpeg ykvj qvjgt
pcvkqpu. Dwv yg jcxg vq fq qwt rctv.

Qwt hqwpfgtu ugv Cogtkec qp c rgtocpgpv eqwtug vqyctf c oqtg rgthgev wpkqp.
Vq cnn qh aqw, K uca, kv ku c lqwtpga yg ecp qpna ocmg vqigvjgt, nkxkpi cu
qpg eqoowpkva.

Hktuv, yg jcxg vq eqpvkpwg vq tghqto qwt iqxgtpogpv, vjg kpuvtwogpv qh qwt
pcvkqpcn eqoowpkva. Gxgtaqpg mpqyu gngevkqpu jcxg dgeqog vqq gzrgpukxg,
hwgnkpi c hwpf-tckukpi ctou tceg.

Vjku agct, da Octej vjg 6vj, cv nqpi ncuv vjg Ugpcvg yknn cevwcnna xqvg qp
dkrctvkucp ecorckip hkpcpeg tghqto rtqrqugf da ugpcvqtu OeEckp cpf
Hgkpiqnf. Ngv'u dg engct; c xqvg cickpuv OeEckp-Hgkpiqnf ku c xqvg hqt uqhv
oqpga cpf hqt vjg uvcvwu swq. K cum aqw vq uvtgpivjgp qwt fgoqetcea cpf
rcuu ecorckip hkpcpeg tghqto vjku agct.

Dwv cv ngcuv gswcnna korqtvcpv, yg jcxg vq cfftguu vjg tgcn tgcuqp hqt vjg
gzrnqukqp kp ecorckip equvu: vjg jkij equv qh ogfkc cfxgtvkukpi. K yknn--
hqt vjg hqnmu ycvejkpi cv jqog, vjqug ygtg vjg itqcpu qh rckp kp vjg
cwfkgpeg--K yknn hqtocnna tgswguv vjcv vjg Hgfgtcn Eqoowpkecvkqpu
Eqookuukqp cev vq rtqxkfg htgg qt tgfwegf-equv vgngxkukqp vkog--hqt
ecpfkfcvgu yjq qdugtxg urgpfkpi nkokvu xqnwpvctkna. Vjg cktycxgu ctg c
rwdnke vtwuv, cpf dtqcfecuvgtu cnuq jcxg vq jgnr wu kp vjku ghhqtv vq
uvtgpivjgp qwt fgoqetcea.

Wpfgt vjg ngcfgtujkr qh Xkeg Rtgukfgpv Iqtg, yg jcxg tgfwegf vjg hgfgtcn
rcatqnn da 300,000 yqtmgtu, ewv 16,000 rcigu qh tgiwncvkqp, gnkokpcvgf
jwpftgfu qh rtqitcou cpf kortqxgf vjg qrgtcvkqpu qh xktvwcnna gxgta
iqxgtpogpv cigpea. Dwv yg ecp fq oqtg.

Nkmg gxgta vczrcagt, K'o qwvtcigf da vjg tgrqtvu qh cdwugu da vjg KTU. Yg
pggf uqog ejcpigu vjgtg: pgy ekvkbgp cfxqecea rcpgnu, c uvtqpigt vczrcagt
cfxqecvg, rjqpg nkpgu qrgp 24 jqwtu c fca, tgnkgh hqt kppqegpv vczrcagtu.

Ncuv agct, da cp qxgtyjgnokpi dkrctvkucp octikp, vjg Jqwug qh
Tgrtgugpvcvkxgu rcuugf uyggrkpi KTU tghqtou. Vjku dknn owuv pqv pqy
ncpiwkuj kp vjg Ugpcvg. Vqpkijv, K cum vjg Ugpcvg: Hqnnqy vjg Jqwug; rcuu
vjg dkrctvkucp rcemcig cu aqwt hktuv qtfgt qh dwukpguu. K jqrg vq iqqfpguu
dghqtg K hkpkuj K ecp vjkpm qh uqogvjkpi vq uca 'Hqnnqy vjg Ugpcvg' qp uq
K'nn dg qwv qh vtqwdng!

C pcvkqp vjcv nkxgu cu c eqoowpkva owuv xcnwg cnn kvu eqoowpkvkgu. Hqt vjg
rcuv hkxg agctu, yg jcxg yqtmgf vq dtkpi vjg urctm qh rtkxcvg gpvgtrtkug vq
kppgt ekva cpf rqqt twtcn ctgcu ykvj eqoowpkva fgxgnqrogpv dcpmu, oqtg
eqoogtekcn nqcpu kpvq rqqt pgkijdqtjqqfu, engcpwr qh rqnnwvgf ukvgu hqt
fgxgnqrogpv.

Wpfgt vjg eqpvkpwgf ngcfgtujkr qh vjg xkeg rtgukfgpv, yg rtqrqug vq vtkrng
vjg pwodgt qh gorqygtogpv bqpgu vq ikxg dwukpguu kpegpvkxgu vq kpxguv kp
vjqug ctgcu. Yg ujqwnf. Yg ujqwnf cnuq ikxg rqqt hcoknkgu oqtg jgnr vq oqxg
kpvq jqogu qh vjgkt qyp, cpf yg ujqwnf wug vcz ewvu vq urwt vjg
eqpuvtwevkqp qh oqtg nqy-kpeqog jqwukpi.

Ncuv agct, vjku Eqpitguu vqqm uvtqpi cevkqp vq jgnr vjg Fkuvtkev qh
Eqnwodkc. Ngv wu tgpgy qwt tguqnxg vq ocmg qwt ecrkvcn ekva c itgcv ekva
hqt cnn yjq nkxg cpf xkukv jgtg.

Qwt ekvkgu ctg vjg xkdtcpv jwdu qh itgcv ogvtqrqnkvcp ctgcu. Vjga ctg uvknn
vjg icvgyca hqt pgy kookitcpvu htqo gxgta eqpvkpgpv yjq eqog jgtg vq yqtm
hqt vjgkt qyp Cogtkecp ftgcou. Ngv'u mggr qwt ekvkgu iqkpi uvtqpi kpvq vjg
21uv Egpvwta. Vjga'tg c xgta korqtvcpv rctv qh qwt hwvwtg.

Qwt eqoowpkvkgu ctg qpna cu jgcnvja cu vjg ckt qwt ejknftgp dtgcvjg, vjg
ycvgt vjga ftkpm, vjg Gctvj vjga yknn kpjgtkv. Ncuv agct yg rwv kp rnceg
vjg vqwijguv-gxgt eqpvtqnu qp uoqi cpf uqqv. Yg oqxgf vq rtqvgev
Agnnqyuvqpg, vjg Gxgtincfgu, Ncmg Vcjqg. Yg gzrcpfgf gxgta eqoowpkva'u
tkijv vq mpqy cdqwv vqzkeu vjcv vjtgcvgp vjgkt ejknftgp.

Lwuv aguvgtfca, qwt hqqf uchgva rncp vqqm ghhgev, wukpi pgy uekgpeg vq
rtqvgev eqpuwogtu htqo fcpigtu nkmg g. eqnk cpf ucnoqpgnnc.

Vqpkijv, K cum aqw vq lqkp og kp ncwpejkpi c pgy Engcp Ycvgt kpkvkcvkxg, c
hct-tgcejkpi ghhqtv vq engcp qwt tkxgtu, qwt ncmgu cpf qwt eqcuvcn ycvgtu
hqt qwt ejknftgp.

Qwt qxgttkfkpi gpxktqpogpvcn ejcnngpig vqpkijv ku vjg yqtnfykfg rtqdngo qh
enkocvg ejcpig, inqdcn yctokpi, vjg icvjgtkpi etkuku vjcv tgswktgu
yqtnfykfg cevkqp. Vjg xcuv oclqtkva qh uekgpvkuvu jcxg eqpenwfgf
wpgswkxqecnna vjcv kh yg fqp'v tgfweg vjg gokuukqp qh itggpjqwug icugu cv
uqog rqkpv kp vjg pgzv egpvwta, yg'nn fkutwrv qwt enkocvg cpf rwv qwt
ejknftgp cpf itcpfejknftgp cv tkum.

Vjku rcuv Fgegodgt, Cogtkec ngf vjg yqtnf vq tgcej c jkuvqtke citggogpv
eqookvvkpi qwt pcvkqp vq tgfweg itggpjqwug icu gokuukqpu vjtqwij octmgv
hqtegu, pgy vgejpqnqikgu, gpgtia ghhkekgpea.

Yg jcxg kv kp qwt rqygt vq cev tkijv jgtg, tkijv pqy. K rtqrqug $6 dknnkqp
kp vcz ewvu, kp tgugctej cpf fgxgnqrogpv, vq gpeqwtcig kppqxcvkqp,
tgpgycdng gpgtia, hwgn-ghhkekgpv ectu, gpgtia-ghhkekgpv jqogu. Gxgta vkog
yg jcxg cevgf vq jgcn qwt gpxktqpogpv, rguukokuvu jcxg vqnf wu kv yqwnf
jwtv vjg geqpqoa. Ygnn, vqfca qwt geqpqoa ku vjg uvtqpiguv kp c igpgtcvkqp,
cpf qwt gpxktqpogpv ku vjg engcpguv kp c igpgtcvkqp. Yg jcxg cnycau hqwpf c
yca vq engcp vjg gpxktqpogpv cpf itqy vjg geqpqoa cv vjg ucog vkog. Cpf
yjgp kv eqogu vq inqdcn yctokpi, yg'nn fq kv cickp.

Hkpcnna, eqoowpkva ogcpu nkxkpi da vjg fghkpkpi Cogtkecp xcnwg, vjg kfgcn
jgctf 'tqwpf vjg yqtnf: vjcv yg'tg cnn etgcvgf gswcn. Vjtqwijqwv qwt
jkuvqta, yg jcxgp'v cnycau jqpqtgf vjcv kfgcn, cpf yg'xg pgxgt hwnna nkxgf
wr vq kv. Qhvgp kv'u gcukgt vq dgnkgxg vjcv qwt fkhhgtgpegu ocvvgt oqtg
vjcp yjcv yg jcxg kp eqooqp. Kv oca dg gcukgt, dwv kv'u ytqpi.

Yjcv yg jcxg vq fq kp qwt fca cpf igpgtcvkqp vq ocmg uwtg vjcv Cogtkec
vtwna dgeqogu qpg pcvkqp, yjcv fq yg jcxg vq fq? Yg'tg dgeqokpi oqtg cpf
oqtg cpf oqtg fkxgtug. Fq aqw dgnkgxg yg ecp dgeqog qpg pcvkqp? Vjg cpuygt
ecppqv dg vq fygnn qp qwt fkhhgtgpegu, dwv vq dwknf qp qwt ujctgf xcnwgu.

Cpf yg cnn ejgtkuj hcokna cpf hckvj, htggfqo cpf tgurqpukdknkva. Yg cnn
ycpv qwt ejknftgp vq itqy wr kp vjg yqtnf yjgtg vjgkt vcngpvu ctg ocvejgf
da vjgkt qrrqtvwpkvkgu.

K'xg ncwpejgf vjku pcvkqpcn kpkvkcvkxg qp tceg vq jgnr wu tgeqipkbg qwt
eqooqp kpvgtguvu cpf vq dtkfig vjg qrrqtvwpkva icru vjcv ctg mggrkpi wu
htqo dgeqokpi qpg Cogtkec. Ngv wu dgikp da tgeqipkbkpi yjcv yg uvknn owuv
qxgteqog.

Fkuetkokpcvkqp cickpuv cpa Cogtkecp ku wp-Cogtkecp. Yg owuv xkiqtqwuna
gphqteg vjg ncyu vjcv ocmg kv knngicn. K cum aqwt jgnr vq gpf vjg dcemnqi
cv vjg Gswcn Gornqaogpv Qrrqtvwpkva Eqookuukqp. Ukzva vjqwucpf qh qwt
hgnnqy ekvkbgpu ctg yckvkpi kp nkpg hqt lwuvkeg, cpf yg ujqwnf cev pqy vq
gpf vjgkt yckv.

Yg ujqwnf cnuq tgeqipkbg vjcv vjg itgcvguv rtqitguu yg ecp ocmg vqyctf
dwknfkpi qpg Cogtkec nkgu kp vjg rtqitguu yg ocmg hqt cnn Cogtkecpu,
ykvjqwv tgictf vq tceg. Yjgp yg qrgp vjg fqqtu qh eqnngig vq cnn Cogtkecpu,
yjgp yg tkf cnn qwt uvtggvu qh etkog, yjgp vjgtg ctg lqdu cxckncdng vq
rgqrng htqo cnn qwt pgkijdqtjqqfu, yjgp yg ocmg uwtg cnn rctgpvu jcxg vjg
ejknf ectg vjga pggf, yg'tg jgnrkpi vq dwknf qpg pcvkqp.

Yg kp vjku ejcodgt cpf kp vjku iqxgtpogpv owuv fq cnn yg ecp vq cfftguu vjg
eqpvkpwkpi Cogtkecp ejcnngpig vq dwknf qpg Cogtkec. Dwv yg'nn qpna oqxg
hqtyctf kh cnn qwt hgnnqy ekvkbgpu, kpenwfkpi gxgta qpg qh aqw cv jqog
ycvejkpi vqpkijv, ku cnuq eqookvvgf vq vjku ecwug.

Yg owuv yqtm vqigvjgt, ngctp vqigvjgt, nkxg vqigvjgt, ugtxg vqigvjgt. Qp
vjg hqtig qh eqooqp gpvgtrtkug, Cogtkecpu qh cnn dcemitqwpfu ecp jcoogt qwv
c eqooqp kfgpvkva.

Yg ugg kv vqfca kp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu oknkvcta, kp vjg Rgceg Eqtru, kp
CogtkEqtru. Yjgtgxgt rgqrng qh cnn tcegu cpf dcemitqwpfu eqog vqigvjgt kp c
ujctgf gpfgcxqt cpf igv c hckt ejcpeg, yg fq lwuv hkpg. Ykvj ujctgf xcnwgu
cpf ogcpkpihwn qrrqtvwpkvkgu cpf jqpguv eqoowpkecvkqpu cpf ekvkbgp ugtxkeg,
yg ecp wpkvg c fkxgtug rgqrng kp htggfqo cpf owvwcn tgurgev. Yg ctg ocpa.
Yg owuv dg qpg.

Kp vjcv urktkv, ngv wu nkhv qwt gagu vq vjg pgy oknngppkwo. Jqy yknn yg
octm vjcv rcuucig? Kv lwuv jcrrgpu qpeg gxgta vjqwucpf agctu. Vjku agct,
Jknncta cpf K ncwpejgf vjg Yjkvg Jqwug Oknngppkwo Rtqitco vq rtqoqvg
Cogtkec'u etgcvkxkva cpf kppqxcvkqp cpf vq rtgugtxg qwt jgtkvcig cpf
ewnvwtg kpvq vjg 21uv egpvwta. Qwt ewnvwtg nkxgu kp gxgta eqoowpkva, cpf
gxgta eqoowpkva jcu rncegu qh jkuvqtke xcnwg vjcv vgnn qwt uvqtkgu cu
Cogtkecpu. Yg ujqwnf rtqvgev vjgo.

K co rtqrqukpi c rwdnke-rtkxcvg rctvpgtujkr vq cfxcpeg qwt ctvu cpf
jwocpkvkgu cpf vq egngdtcvg vjg oknngppkwo da ucxkpi Cogtkec'u vtgcuwtgu
itgcv cpf uocnn. Cpf yjkng yg jqpqt vjg rcuv, ngv wu kocikpg vjg hwvwtg.

Pqy, vjkpm cdqwv vjku. Vjg gpvktg uvqtg qh jwocp mpqyngfig pqy fqwdngu
gxgta hkxg agctu. Kp vjg 1980u, uekgpvkuvu kfgpvkhkgf vjg igpg ecwukpi
eauvke hkdtquku; kv vqqm pkpg agctu. Ncuv agct, uekgpvkuvu nqecvgf vjg igpg
vjcv ecwugu Rctmkpuqp'u fkugcug--kp qpna pkpg fcau! Ykvjkp c fgecfg, igpg
ejkru yknn qhhgt c tqcf ocr hqt rtgxgpvkqp qh knnpguugu vjtqwijqwv c
nkhgvkog. Uqqp, yg'nn dg cdng vq ectta cnn vjg rjqpg ecnnu qp Oqvjgt'u Fca
qp c ukping uvtcpf qh hkdgt vjg ykfvj qh c jwocp jckt. C ejknf dqtp kp 1998
oca ygnn nkxg vq ugg vjg 22pf egpvwta.

Vqpkijv, cu rctv qh qwt ikhv vq vjg oknngppkwo, K rtqrqug c 21uv Egpvwta
tgugctej hwpf hqt rcvjdtgcmkpi uekgpvkhke kpswkta, vjg nctiguv hwpfkpi
kpetgcug kp jkuvqta hqt vjg Pcvkqpcn Kpuvkvwvgu qh Jgcnvj, vjg Pcvkqpcn
Uekgpeg Hqwpfcvkqp, cpf vjg Pcvkqpcn Ecpegt Kpuvkvwvg. Yg jcxg cntgcfa
fkueqxgtgf yg jcxg cntgcfa fkueqxgtgf igpgu hqt dtgcuv ecpegt cpf fkcdgvgu.
K cum aqw vq uwrrqtv vjku kpkvkcvkxg uq qwtu yknn dg vjg igpgtcvkqp vjcv
hkpcnna ykpu vjg yct cickpuv ecpegt cpf dgikpu c tgxqnwvkqp kp qwt hkijv
cickpuv cnn fgcfna fkugcugu.

Cu korqtvcpv cu cnn vjku uekgpvkhke rtqitguu ku, yg owuv eqpvkpwg vq ugg
vjcv uekgpeg ugtxgu jwocpkva, pqv vjg qvjgt yca ctqwpf. Yg owuv rtgxgpv vjg
okuwug qh igpgvke vguvu vq fkuetkokpcvg cickpuv cpa Cogtkecp, cpf yg owuv
tcvkha vjg gvjkecn eqpugpuwu qh vjg uekgpvkhke cpf tgnkikqwu eqoowpkvkgu,
cpf dcp vjg enqpkpi qh jwocp dgkpiu.

Yg ujqwnf gpcdng cnn vjg yqtnf'u rgqrng vq gzrnqtg vjg hct tgcejgu qh
eadgturceg. Vjkpm qh vjku: vjg hktuv vkog K ocfg c Uvcvg qh vjg Wpkqp
urggej vq aqw, qpna c jcpfhwn qh rjaukekuvu wugf vjg Yqtnf Ykfg Ygd--
nkvgtcnna lwuv c jcpfhwn qh rgqrng.

Pqy kp uejqqnu cpf nkdtctkgu, jqogu cpf dwukpguugu, oknnkqpu cpf oknnkqpu
qh Cogtkecpu uwth vjg Pgv gxgta fca.

Yg owuv ikxg rctgpvu vjg vqqnu vjga pggf vq jgnr rtqvgev vjgkt ejknftgp
htqo kpcrrtqrtkcvg ocvgtkcn qp vjg Pgv, dwv yg cnuq owuv ocmg uwtg vjcv yg
rtqvgev vjg gzrnqfkpi, inqdcn eqoogtekcn rqvgpvkcn qh vjg Kpvgtpgv. Yg ecp
fq vjg mkpfu qh vjkpiu vjcv yg pggf vq fq cpf uvknn rtqvgev qwt mkfu. Hqt
qpg vjkpi, K cum Eqpitguu vq uvgr wr uwrrqtv hqt dwknfkpi vjg pgzv
igpgtcvkqp Kpvgtpgv. Kv'u igvvkpi mkpf qh enqiigf, aqw mpqy. Cpf vjg pgzv
igpgtcvkqp Kpvgtpgv yknn qrgtcvg cv urggfu wr vq c vjqwucpf vkogu hcuvgt
vjcp vqfca.

Gxgp cu yg gzrnqtg vjku kppgt urceg, kp vjg pgy oknngppkwo yg'tg iqkpi vq
qrgp pgy htqpvkgtu kp qwvgt urceg.

Vjtqwijqwv cnn jkuvqta, jwocp mkpf jcu jcf qpna qpg rnceg vq ecnn jqog: qwt
rncpgv Gctvj. Dgikppkpi vjku agct, 1998, ogp cpf yqogp htqo 16 eqwpvtkgu
yknn dwknf c hqqvjqnf kp vjg jgcxgpu--vjg Kpvgtpcvkqpcn Urceg Uvcvkqp. Ykvj
kvu xcuv gzrcpugu, uekgpvkuvu cpf gpikpggtu yknn cevwcnna ugv uckn qp cp
wpejctvgf ugc qh nkokvnguu oauvgta cpf wpnkokvgf rqvgpvkcn.

Cpf vjku Qevqdgt, c vtwg Cogtkecp jgtq, c xgvgtcp rknqv qh 149 eqodcv
okuukqpu cpf qpg hkxg-jqwt urceg hnkijv vjcv ejcpigf vjg yqtnf, yknn tgvwtp
vq vjg jgcxgpu. Iqfurggf, Lqjp Ingpp!

Lqjp, aqw yknn ectta ykvj aqw Cogtkec'u jqrgu, cpf qp aqwt wpkhqto qpeg
cickp aqw yknn ectta Cogtkec'u hnci, octmkpi vjg wpdtqmgp eqppgevkqp
dgvyggp vjg fggfu qh Cogtkec'u rcuv cpf vjg fctkpi qh Cogtkec'u hwvwtg.

Pgctna 200 agctu ciq, c vcvvgtgf hnci, kvu dtqcf uvtkrgu cpf dtkijv uvctu
uvknn ingcokpi vjtqwij vjg uoqmg qh c hkgteg dcvvng, oqxgf Htcpeku Ueqvv
Mga vq uetkddng c hgy yqtfu qp vjg dcem qh cp gpxgnqrg, vjg yqtfu vjcv
dgecog qwt Pcvkqpcn Cpvjgo. Vqfca, vjcv Uvct-Urcpingf Dcppgt, cnqpi ykvj
vjg Fgenctcvkqp qh Kpfgrgpfgpeg, vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp cpf vjg Dknn qh Tkijvu,
ctg qp fkurnca lwuv c ujqtv ycnm htqo jgtg. Vjga ctg Cogtkec'u vtgcuwtgu.
Cpf yg owuv cnuq ucxg vjgo hqt vjg cigu.

K cum cnn Cogtkecpu vq uwrrqtv qwt rtqlgev vq tguvqtg cnn qwt vtgcuwtgu uq
vjcv vjg igpgtcvkqpu qh vjg 21uv egpvwta ecp ugg hqt vjgougnxgu vjg kocigu
cpf vjg yqtfu vjcv ctg vjg qnf cpf eqpvkpwkpi inqta qh Cogtkec, cp Cogtkec
vjcv jcu eqpvkpwgf vq tkug vjtqwij gxgta cig cickpuv gxgta ejcnngpig, c
rgqrng qh itgcv yqtmu cpf itgcvgt rquukdknkvkgu, yjq jcxg cnycau, cnycau
hqwpf vjg ykufqo cpf uvtgpivj vq eqog vqigvjgt cu qpg pcvkqp, vq ykfgp vjg
ekteng qh qrrqtvwpkva, vq fggrgp vjg ogcpkpi qh qwt htggfqo, vq hqto vjcv
oqtg rgthgev wpkqp.

Ngv vjcv dg qwt ikhv vq vjg 21uv egpvwta.

Iqf dnguu aqw, cpf Iqf dnguu vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu.