Ogodgtu qh vjg Eqpitguu:

Kp tgrqtvkpi vq vjg Eqpitguu vjg uvcvg qh vjg Wpkqp, K hkpf kv korquukdng
vq ejctcevgtkbg kv qvjgt vjcp qpg qh igpgtcn rgceg cpf rtqurgtkva. Kp uqog
swctvgtu qwt fkrnqocea ku xgzgf ykvj fkhhkewnv cpf cu agv wpuqnxgf
rtqdngou, dwv pqyjgtg ctg yg ogv ykvj ctogf eqphnkev. Kh uqog qeewrcvkqpu
cpf ctgcu ctg pqv hnqwtkujkpi, kp pqpg fqgu vjgtg tgockp cpa cewvg ejtqpke
fgrtguukqp. Yjcv vjg eqwpvta tgswktgu ku pqv uq owej pgy rqnkekgu cu c
uvgcfa eqpvkpwcvkqp qh vjqug yjkej ctg cntgcfa dgkpi etqypgf ykvj uwej
cdwpfcpv uweeguu. Kv ecp pqv dg vqq qhvgp tgrgcvgf vjcv kp eqooqp ykvj cnn
vjg yqtnf yg ctg gpicigf kp nkswkfcvkpi vjg yct.

Kp vjg rtgugpv ujqtv uguukqp pq itgcv coqwpv qh pgy ngikuncvkqp ku
rquukdng, dwv kp qtfgt vq eqortgjgpf yjcv ku oquv fguktcdng uqog uwtxga qh
qwt igpgtcn ukvwcvkqp ku pgeguucta. C nctig coqwpv qh vkog ku eqpuwogf kp
vjg rcuucig qh crrtqrtkcvkqp dknnu. Kh gcej Eqpitguu kp kvu qrgpkpi uguukqp
yqwnf ocmg crrtqrtkcvkqpu vq eqpvkpwg hqt vyq agctu, xgta owej vkog yqwnf
dg ucxgf yjkej eqwnf gkvjgt dg fgxqvgf vq c eqpukfgtcvkqp qh vjg igpgtcn
pggfu qh vjg eqwpvta qt yqwnf tguwnv kp fgetgcukpi vjg yqtm qh ngikuncvkqp.
GEQPQOA

Qwt rtgugpv uvcvg qh rtqurgtkva jcu dggp itgcvna rtqoqvgf da vjtgg
korqtvcpv ecwugu, qpg qh yjkej ku geqpqoa, tguwnvkpi kp tgfwevkqp cpf
tghqto kp pcvkqpcn vczcvkqp. Cpqvjgt ku vjg gnkokpcvkqp qh ocpa mkpfu qh
ycuvg. Vjg vjktf ku c igpgtcn tckukpi qh vjg uvcpfctfu qh ghhkekgpea. Vjku
eqodkpcvkqp jcu dtqwijv vjg rgthgevna cuvqpkujkpi tguwnv qh c tgfwevkqp kp
vjg kpfgz rtkeg qh eqooqfkvkgu cpf cp kpetgcug kp vjg kpfgz tcvg qh ycigu.
Yg jcxg ugewtgf c nqygtkpi qh vjg equv vq rtqfweg cpf c tckukpi qh vjg
cdknkva vq eqpuwog. Rtqurgtkva tguwnvkpi htqo vjgug ecwugu tguvu qp vjg
ugewtguv qh cnn hqwpfcvkqpu. Kv icvjgtu uvtgpivj htqo kvu qyp rtqitguu.

Kp rtqoqvkpi vjku rtqitguu vjg ejkgh rctv yjkej vjg Pcvkqpcn Iqxgtpogpv
rncau nkgu kp vjg hkgnf qh geqpqoa. Yjcvgxgt fqwdvu oca jcxg dggp
gpvgtvckpgf cu vq vjg pgeguukva qh vjku rqnkea cpf vjg dgpghkekcn tguwnvu
yjkej yqwnf ceetwg htqo kv vq cnn vjg rgqrng qh vjg Pcvkqp, kvu ykufqo owuv
pqy dg eqpukfgtgf vjqtqwijna fgoqpuvtcvgf. Kv oca pqv jcxg crrgctgf vq dg c
pqxgn qt rgtjcru dtknnkcpv eqpegrvkqp, dwv kv jcu vwtpgf qwv vq dg
rtggokpgpvna uqwpf. Kv jcu pqv hckngf vq yqtm. Kv jcu uwtgna dtqwijv
tguwnvu. Kv fqgu pqv jcxg vq dg gzewugf cu c vgorqtcta gzrgfkgpv cfqrvgf cu
vjg nguugt gxkn vq tgogfa uqog cdwug, kv ku pqv c rcnnkcvkxg uggmkpi vq
vtgcv uaorvqou, dwv c oclqt qrgtcvkqp hqt vjg, gtcfkecvkqp cv vjg uqwteg qh
c nctig pwodgt qh uqekcn fkugcugu.

Pqvjkpi ku gcukgt vjcp vjg gzrgpfkvwtg qh rwdnke oqpga. Kv fqgu pqv crrgct
vq dgnqpi vq cpadqfa. Vjg vgorvcvkqp ku qxgtyjgnokpi vq dguvqy kv qp
uqogdqfa. Dwv vjg tguwnvu qh gzvtcxcicpeg ctg twkpqwu. Vjg rtqrgtva qh vjg
eqwpvta, nkmg vjg htggfqo qh vjg eqwpvta, dgnqpiu vq vjg rgqrng qh vjg
eqwpvta. Vjga jcxg pqv gorqygtgf vjgkt Iqxgtpogpv vq vcmg c fqnnct qh kv
gzegrv hqt c pgeguucta rwdnke rwtrqug. Dwv kh vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp eqphgttgf
uwej tkijv, uqwpf geqpqokeu yqwnf hqtdkf kv. Pqvjkpi ku oqtg, fguvtwevkxg
qh vjg rtqitguu qh vjg Pcvkqp vjcp iqxgtpogpv gzvtcxcicpeg. Kv ogcpu cp
kpetgcug kp vjg dwtfgp qh vczcvkqp, fkuukrcvkqp qh vjg tgvwtpu htqo
gpvgtrtkug, c fgetgcug kp vjg tgcn xcnwg qh ycigu, ykvj wnvkocvg uvcipcvkqp
cpf fgeca. Vjg yjqng vjgqta qh qwt kpuvkvwvkqpu ku dcugf qp vjg nkdgtva cpf
kpfgrgpfgpeg qh vjg kpfkxkfwcn. Jg ku fgrgpfgpv qp jkougnh hqt uwrrqtv cpf
vjgtghqtg gpvkvngf vq vjg tgyctfu qh jku qyp kpfwuvta. Jg ku pqv vq dg
fgrtkxgf qh yjcv jg gctpu vjcv qvjgtu oca dg dgpghkvgf da yjcv vjga fq pqv
gctp. Yjcv jg ucxgu vjtqwij jku rtkxcvg ghhqtv ku pqv vq dg ycuvgf da
Iqxgtpogpv gzvtcxcicpeg.

Qwt pcvkqpcn cevkxkvkgu jcxg dgeqog uq xcuv vjcv kv ku pgeguucta vq
uetwvkpkbg gcej kvgo qh rwdnke gzrgpfkvwtg kh yg ctg vq crrna vjg rtkpekrng
qh geqpqoa. Cv vjg ncuv uguukqp yg ocfg cp koogfkcvg kpetgcug kp vjg cppwcn
dwfigv qh oqtg vjcp $100,000,000 kp dgpghkvu eqphgttgf qp vjg xgvgtcpu qh
vjtgg yctu, rwdnke dwknfkpiu, cpf tkxgt cpf jctdqt kortqxgogpv. Ocpa
rtqlgevu ctg dgkpi dtqcejgf tgswktkpi hwtvjgt nctig qwvncau. K co eqpxkpegf
vjcv kv yqwnf dg itgcvna hqt vjg ygnhctg qh vjg eqwpvta kh yg cxqkf cv vjg
rtgugpv uguukqp cnn eqookvogpvu gzegrv vjqug qh vjg oquv rtguukpi pcvwtg.
Htqo c tgfwevkqp qh vjg fgdv cpf vczgu yknn ceetwg c ykfgt dgpghkv vq cnn
vjg rgqrng qh vjku eqwpvta vjcp htqo godctmkpi qp cpa pgy gpvgtrtkug. Yjgp
qwt yct fgdv ku fgetgcugf yg ujcnn jcxg tguqwtegu hqt gzrcpukqp. Wpvkn vjcv
ku ceeqornkujgf yg ujqwnf eqphkpg qwtugnxgu vq gzrgpfkvwtgu qh vjg oquv
wtigpv pgeguukva.

Vjg Fgrctvogpv qh Eqoogteg jcu rgthqtogf c oquv korqtvcpv hwpevkqp kp
ocmkpi rncpu cpf ugewtkpi uwrrqtv qh cnn mkpfu qh pcvkqpcn gpvgtrtkug hqt
vjg gnkokpcvkqp qh ycuvg. Ghhkekgpea jcu dggp itgcvna rtqoqvgf vjtqwij iqqf
ocpcigogpv cpf vjg eqpuvcpvna kpetgcukpi eqqrgtcvkqp qh vjg ycig gctpgtu
vjtqwijqwv vjg yjqng tgcno qh rtkxcvg dwukpguu. Kv ku oa qrkpkqp vjcv vjku
yjqng fgxgnqrogpv jcu dggp rtgfkecvgf qp vjg hqwpfcvkqp qh c rtqvgevkxg
vctkhh.

VCZ TGFWEVKQP

Cu c tguwnv qh geqpqoa qh cfokpkuvtcvkqp da vjg Gzgewvkxg cpf qh
crrtqrtkcvkqp da vjg Eqpitguu, vjg gpf qh vjku hkuecn agct yknn ngcxg c
uwtrnwu kp vjg Vtgcuwta guvkocvgf cv $383,000,000. Wpnguu qvjgtykug
qtfgtgf, uwej uwtrnwu ku wugf hqt vjg tgvktgogpv qh vjg yct fgdv. C dqpf
yjkej ecp dg tgvktgf vqfca hqt 100 egpvu yknn equv vjg rgqrng 104 1/4
egpvu vq tgvktg c agct htqo pqy. Yjkng K hcxqt c urggfa tgfwevkqp qh vjg
fgdv cu cntgcfa tgswktgf da ncy cpf kp ceeqtfcpeg ykvj vjg rtqokugu ocfg vq
vjg jqnfgtu qh qwt Nkdgtva dqpfu yjgp vjga ygtg kuuwgf, vjgtg ku pq tgcuqp
yja c dcncpegf rqtvkqp qh uwtrnwu tgxgpwg ujqwnf pqv dg crrnkgf vq c
tgfwevkqp qh vczcvkqp. Kv ecp pqv dg tgrgcvgf vqq qhvgp vjcv vjg gpqtoqwu
tgxgpwgu qh vjku Pcvkqp eqwnf pqv dg eqnngevgf ykvjqwv dgeqokpi c ejctig qp
cnn vjg rgqrng yjgvjgt qt pqv vjga fktgevna rca vczgu. Gxgtaqpg yjq ku
rcakpi qt vjg dctg pgeguukvkgu qh hqqn cpf ujgnvgt cpf enqvjkpi, ykvjqwv
eqpukfgtkpi vjg dgvvgt vjkpiu qh nkhg, ku kpfktgevna rcakpi c pcvkqpcn vcz.
Vjg pgctna 20,000,000 qypgtu qh ugewtkvkgu, vjg cffkvkqpcn ueqtgu qh
oknnkqpu qh jqnfgtu qh kpuwtcpeg rqnkekgu cpf fgrqukvqtu kp ucxkpiu dcpmu,
ctg cnn rcakpi c pcvkqpcn vcz. Oknnkqpu qh kpfkxkfwcnu cpf eqtrqtcvkqpu ctg
ocmkpi c fktgev eqpvtkdwvkqp vq vjg Pcvkqpcn Vtgcuwta yjkej twpu htqo 11/2
vq 25 rgt egpv qh vjgkt kpeqog, dgukfgu c pwodgt qh urgekcn tgswktgogpvu,
nkmg cwvqoqdkng cpf cfokuukqp vczgu. Yjgpgxgt vjg uvcvg qh vjg Vtgcuwta
yknn rgtokv, K dgnkgxg kp c tgfwevkqp qh vczcvkqp. K vjkpm vjg vczrcagtu
ctg gpvkvngf vq kv. Dwv K co pqv cfxqecvkpi vcz tgfwevkqp ogtgna hqt vjg
dgpghkv qh vjg vczrcagt; K co cfxqecvkpi kv hqt vjg dgpghkv qh vjg
eqwpvta.

Kh kv crrgctgf hgcukdng, K ujqwnf ygneqog rgtocpgpv vcz tgfwevkqp cv vjku
vkog. Vjg guvkocvgf uwtrnwu, jqygxgt, hqt Lwpg 30, 1928, ku pqv owej nctigt
vjcp ku tgswktgf kp c iqkpi dwukpguu qh pgctna $4,000,000,000. Yg jcxg jcf
dwv c hgy oqpvju' gzrgtkgpeg wpfgt vjg rtgugpv tgxgpwg cev cpf ujcnn pggf
vq mpqy yjcv ku fgxgnqrgf da vjg tgvwtpu qh kpeqog rtqfwegf wpfgt kv, yjkej
ctg pqv tgswktgf v q dg ocfg wpvkn cdqwv vjg vkog vjku uguukqp vgtokpcvgu,
cpf yjcv vjg geqpqoke rtqdcdknkvkgu qh vjg eqwpvta ctg kp vjg ncvvgt rctv
qh 1927, dghqtg yg ecp tgcej cpa lwuvkhkcdng eqpenwukqp cu vq rgtocpgpv vcz
tgfwevkqp. Oqtgqxgt vjg rtgugpv uwtrnwu tguwnvu htqo ocpa pqptgewttgpv
kvgou. Ogcpvkog, kv ku rquukdng vq itcpv uqog tgcn tgnkgh da c ukorng
ogcuwtg ocmkpi tgfwevkqpu kp vjg rcaogpvu yjkej ceetwg qp vjg 15vj qh Octej
cpf Lwpg, 1927. K co xgta uvtqpina qh vjg eqpxkevkqp vjcv vjku ku uq owej c
rwtgna dwukpguu ocvvgt vjcv kv qwijv pqv vq dg fgcnv ykvj kp c rctvkucp
urktkv. Vjg Eqpitguu jcu cntgcfa ugv vjg pqvcdng gzcorng qh vtgcvkpi vcz
rtqdngou ykvjqwv owej tghgtgpeg vq rctva, yjkej okijv ygnn dg eqpvkpwgf.
Yjcv K fguktg vq cfxqecvg oquv gctpguvna ku tgnkgh hqt vjg eqwpvta htqo
wppgeguucta vcz dwtfgpu. Yg ecp pqv ugewtg vjcv kh yg uvqr vq gpicig kp c
rctvkucp eqpvtqxgtua. Cu K fq pqv vjkpm cpa ejcpig kp vjg urgekcn vczgu, qt
vkpa rgtocpgpv tgfwevkqp ku rtcevkecn, K vjgtghqtg wtig dqvj rctvkgu qh vjg
Jqwug Ycau cpf Ogcpu Eqookvvgg vq citgg qp c dknn itcpvkpi vjg vgorqtcta
tgnkgh yjkej K jcxg kpfkecvgf. Uwej c tgfwevkqp yqwnf fktgevna chhgev
oknnkqpu qh vczrcagtu, tgngcug nctig uwou hqt kpxguvogpv kp pgy gpvgtrtkug,
uvkowncvkpi kpfwuvtkcn rtqfwevkqp cpf citkewnvwtcn eqpuworvkqp, cpf
kpfktgevna dgpghkvkpi gxgta hcokna kp vjg yjqng eqwpvta. Vjgug ctg oa
eqpxkevkqpu uvcvgf ykvj hwnn mpqyngfig vjcv kv ku hqt vjg Eqpitguu vq
fgekfg yjgvjgt vjga lwfig kv dguv vq ocmg uwej c tgfwevkqp qt ngcxg vjg
uwtrnwu hqt vjg rtgugpv agct vq dg crrnkgf vq tgvktgogpv qh vjg yct fgdv.
Vjcv cnuq ku gxgpvwcnna vcz tgfwevkqp.

RTQVGEVKXG VCTKHH

Kv ku guvkocvgf vjcv ewuvqou tgegkrvu hqt vjg rtgugpv hkuecn agct yknn
gzeggf $615,000,000, vjg nctiguv yjkej ygtg gxgt ugewtgf htqo vjcv uqwteg.
Vjg xcnwg qh qwt korqtvu hqt vjg ncuv hkuecn agct ycu $4,466,000,000, cp
kpetgcug qh oqtg vjcp 71 rgt egpv ukpeg vjg rtgugpv vctkhh ncy ygpv kpvq
ghhgev. Qh vjgug korqtvu cdqwv 65 rgt egpv, qt, tqwijna, $2,900,000,000,
ecog kp htgg qh fwva, yjkej ogcpu vjcv vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu chhqtfu c
fwva-htgg octmgv vq qvjgt eqwpvtkgu cnoquv gswcn kp xcnwg vq vjg vqvcn
korqtvu qh Igtocpa cpf itgcvna gzeggfkpi vjg vqvcn korqtvu qh Htcpeg. Yg
jcxg cfokvvgf c itgcvgt xqnwog qh htgg korqtvu vjcp cpa qvjgt eqwpvta
gzegrv Gpincpf.

Yg ctg, vjgtghqtg, ngxakpi fwvkgu qp cdqwv $1,550,000,000 qh korqtvu.
Pgctna jcnh qh vjku, qt $700,000,000, ku uwdlgev vq fwvkgu hqt vjg
rtqvgevkqp qh citkewnvwtg cpf jcxg vjgkt qtkikp kp eqwpvtkgu qvjgt vjcp
Gwtqrg. Vjga uwduvcpvkcnna kpetgcugf vjg rtkegu tgegkxgf da qwt hctogtu hqt
vjgkt rtqfweg. Cdqwv $300,000.000 oqtg ku tgrtgugpvgf da nwzwtkgu uwej cu
equvna twiu, hwtu, rtgekqwu uvqpgu, gve. Vjku ngcxgu qpna cdqwv
$550,000,000 qh qwt korqtvu wpfgt c uejgfwng qh fwvkgu yjkej ku kp igpgtcn
wpfgt eqpukfgtcvkqp yjgp vjgtg ku fkuewuukqp qh nqygtkpi vjg vctkhh. Yjkng
vjg fwvkgu qp vjku uocnn rqtvkqp, tgrtgugpvkpi qpna cdqwv 12 rgt egpv qh
qwt korqtvu, wpfqwdvgfna tgrtgugpv vjg fkhhgtgpeg dgvyggp c hckt fgitgg qh
rtqurgtkva qt octmgf fgrtguukqp vq ocpa qh qwt kpfwuvtkgu cpf vjg
fkhhgtgpeg dgvyggp iqqf rca cpf uvgcfa yqtm qt ykfg wpgornqaogpv vq ocpa qh
qwt ycig gctpgtu, kv ku korquukdng vq eqpegkxg jqy qvjgt eqwpvtkgu qt qwt
qyp korqtvgtu eqwnf dg itgcvna dgpghkvgf kh vjgug fwvkgu ctg tgfwegf. Vjqug
yjq ctg uvctvkpi cp cikvcvkqp hqt c tgfwevkqp qh vctkhh fwvkgu, rctvna cv
ngcuv hqt vjg dgpghkv qh vjqug vq yjqo oqpga jcu dggp ngpv cdtqcf, qwijv vq
mpqy vjcv vjgtg fqgu pqv uggo vq dg c xgta nctig hkgnf ykvjkp vjg ctgc qh
qwt korqtvu kp yjkej rtqdcdng tgfwevkqpu yqwnf dg cfxcpvcigqwu vq hqtgkip
iqqfu. Vjqug yjq ykuj vq dgpghkv hqtgkip rtqfwegtu ctg owej oqtg nkmgna vq
ugewtg vjcv tguwnv da eqpvkpwkpi vjg rtgugpv gpqtoqwu rwtejcukpi rqygt
yjkej eqogu htqo qwt rtqurgtkva vjcv kpetgcugf qwt korqtvu qxgt 71
rgt egpv kp hqwt agctu vjcp htqo cpa cfxcpvcigu vjcv ctg nkmgna vq ceetwg
htqo c igpgtcn vctkhh tgfwevkqp.

CITKEWNVWTG

Vjg korqtvcpv rnceg yjkej citkewnvwtg jqnfu kp vjg geqpqoke cpf uqekcn nkhg
qh vjg Pcvkqp ecp pqv dg qxgtguvkocvgf. Vjg Pcvkqpcn Iqxgtpogpv ku
lwuvkhkgf kp rwvvkpi hqtvj gxgta ghhqtv vq ocmg vjg qrgp eqwpvta c
fguktcdng rnceg vq nkxg. Pq eqpfkvkqp oggvu vjku tgswktgogpv yjkej hcknu vq
uwrrna c hckt tgvwtp qp ncdqt gzrgpfgf cpf ecrkvcn kpxguvgf. Yjkng uqog
nqecnkvkgu cpf uqog rctvkewnct etqru hwtpkuj gzegrvkqpu, kp igpgtcn
citkewnvwtg ku eqpvkpwkpi vq ocmg rtqitguu kp tgeqxgtkpi htqo vjg
fgrtguukqp qh 1921 cpf 1922. Cpkocn rtqfwevu cpf hqqf rtqfwevu ctg kp c
oqtg gpeqwtcikpi rqukvkqp, yjkng eqvvqp, fwg vq vjg jkij rtkegu qh rcuv
agctu uwrrngogpvgf da kfgcn ygcvjgt eqpfkvkqpu, jcu dggp uvkowncvgf vq c
rqkpv qh vgorqtcta qxgt rtqfwevkqp. Cevkpi qp vjg tgswguv qh vjg eqvvqp
itqykpi kpvgtguvu, crrqkpvgf c eqookvvgg vq cuukuv kp ecttakpi qwv vjgkt
rncpu. Cu kv tguwnv qh vjku eqqrgtcvkqp uwhhkekgpv hwpfu jcxg dggp rngfigf
vq hkpcpeg vjg uvqtcig cpf ecttakpi qh 4,000,000 dcngu qh eqvvqp. Yjgvjgt
vjqug yjq qyp vjg eqvvqp ctg yknnkpi vq rwv c rctv qh vjgkt uvqem kpvq vjku
rncp fgrgpfu qp vjgougnxgu. Vjg Hgfgtcn Iqxgtpogpv jcu eqqrgtcvgf kp
rtqxkfkpi corng hceknkvkgu. Pq ogvjqf qh oggvkpi vjg ukvwcvkqp yqwnf dg
cfgswcvg yjkej fqgu pqv eqpvgorncvg c tgfwevkqp qh cdqwv qpg-vjktf kp vjg
cetgcig hqt vjg eqokpi agct. Vjg tgurqpukdknkva hqt ocmkpi vjg rncp
ghhgevkxg nkgu ykvj vjqug yjq qyp cpf hkpcpeg eqvvqp cpf eqvvqp ncpfu.

Vjg Fgrctvogpv qh Citkewnvwtg guvkocvgu vjg pgv kpeqog qh citkewnvwtg hqt
vjg agct 1920-21 cv qpna $375,000,000; hqt 1924-25, $2,656,000,000; hqt
1925-26, $2,757,000,000. Vjku kpetgcug jcu dggp dtqwijv cdqwv kp rctv da
vjg ogvjqf cntgcfa tghgttgf vq, qh Hgfgtcn vcz tgfwevkqp, vjg gnkokpcvkqp
qh ycuvg, cpf kpetgcugf ghhkekgpea kp kpfwuvta. Vjg ykfg icr vjcv gzkuvgf c
hgy agctu ciq dgvyggp vjg kpfgz rtkeg qh citkewnvwtcn rtqfwevu cpf vjg
kpfgz rtkeg qh qvjgt rtqfwevu jcu dggp itcfwcnna enqukpi wr, vjqwij vjg
tgegpv fgrtguukqp kp eqvvqp jcu uqogyjcv gpnctigf kv. Citkewnvwtg jcf qp
vjg yjqng dggp iqkpi jkijgt yjkng kpfwuvta jcf dggp itqykpi nqygt.
Kpfwuvtkcn cpf eqoogtekcn cevkxkvkgu, dgkpi ecttkgf qp hqt vjg oquv rctv da
eqtrqtcvkqpu, ctg vczgf cv c owej jkijgt tcvg vjcp hctokpi, yjkej ku
ecttkgf qp da kpfkxkfwcnu. Vjku yknn kpgxkvcdna ocmg kpfwuvtkcn eqooqfkva
equvu jkij yjkng yct vczcvkqp ncuvu. Kv ku dgecwug qh vjku ektewouvcpeg
vjcv pcvkqpcn vcz tgfwevkqp jcu c xgta nctig kpfktgev dgpghkv wrqp vjg
hctogt, vjqwij kv ecp pqv tgnkgxg jko htqo vjg xgta itgcv dwtfgp qh vjg
nqecn vczgu yjkej jg rcau fktgevna. Yg jcxg rtcevkecnna tgnkgxgf vjg hctogt
qh cpa Hgfgtcn kpeqog vcz.

Vjgtg ku citggogpv qp cnn ukfgu vjcv uqog rqtvkqpu qh qwt citkewnvwtcn
kpfwuvta jcxg nciigf dgjkpf qvjgt kpfwuvtkgu kp tgeqxgta htqo vjg yct cpf
vjcv hwtvjgt kortqxgogpv kp ogvjqfu qh octmgvkpi qh citkewnvwtcn rtqfwevu
ku oquv fguktcdng. Vjgtg ku dgnkgh cnuq vjcv vjg Hgfgtcn Iqxgtpogpv ecp
hwtvjgt eqpvtkdwvg vq vjgug gpfu dgaqpf vjg ocpa jgnrhwn ogcuwtgu vcmgp
fwtkpi vjg ncuv hkxg agctu vjtqwij vjg fkhhgtgpv cevu qh Eqpitguu hqt
cfxcpekpi vjg kpvgtguvu qh vjg hctogtu.

Vjg rcemgtu cpf uvqemactfu cev,

Guvcdnkujkpi qh vjg kpvgtogfkcvg etgfkv dcpmu hqt citkewnvwtcn rwtrqugu,

Vjg Rwtpgnn Cev hqt citkewnvwtcn tgugctej,

Vjg Ecrrgt-Xqnuvgcf Eqqrgtcvkxg Octmgvkpi Cev,

Vjg eqqrgtcvkxg octmgvkpi cev qh 1926,

Cogpfogpvu vq vjg yctgjqwukpi cev,

Vjg gpnctigogpv qh vjg cevkxkvkgu qh vjg Fgrctvogpv qh Citkewnvwtg,

Gpnctigogpv qh vjg ueqrg qh nqcpu da vjg Hcto Nqcp Dqctf,

Vjg vctkhh qp citkewnvwtcn rtqfwevu,

Vjg nctig Hgfgtcn gzrgpfkvwtg kp kortqxgogpv qh ycvgtycau cpf jkijycau,

Vjg tgfwevkqp qh Hgfgtcn vczgu, kp cnn eqortkug c itgcv ugtkgu qh
iqxgtpogpvcn cevkqpu kp vjg cfxcpegogpv qh vjg urgekcn kpvgtguv qh
citkewnvwtg.

Kp fgvgtokpcvkqp qh yjcv hwtvjgt ogcuwtgu oca dg wpfgtvcmgp kv uggou vq og
vjgtg ctg egtvckp rkvhcnnu yjkej owuv dg cxqkfgf cpf qwt vguv kp cxqkfkpi
vjgo ujqwnf dg vq cxqkf fkucuvgt vq vjg hctogt jkougnh.

Cevkpi wrqp oa tgeqoogpfcvkqp, vjg Eqpitguu jcu qtfgtgf vjg kpvgtuvcvg
Eqoogteg Eqookuukqp vq kpxguvkicvg vjg htgkijv-tcvg uvtwevwtg, fktgevkpi
vjcv uwej ejcpigu ujcnn dg ocfg kp htgkijv tcvgu cu yknn rtqoqvg htggfqo qh
oqxgogpv qh citkewnvwtcn rtqfwevu. Tckntqcf eqpuqnkfcvkqp yjkej K co
cfxqecvkpi yqwnf cnuq tguwnv kp c ukvwcvkqp yjgtg tcvgu eqwnf dg ocfg oqtg
cfxcpvcigqwu hqt hcto rtqfweg, cu jcu tgegpvna dggp fqpg kp vjg tgxkukqp qh
tcvgu qp hgtvknkbgtu kp vjg Uqwvj. Cffkvkqpcn dgpghkv yknn ceetwg htqo vjg
fgxgnqrogpv qh qwt kpncpf ycvgtycau. Vjg Okuukuukrrk Tkxgt uauvgo ecttkgu c
eqoogteg qh qxgt 50,000,000 vqpu cv c ucxkpi qh pgctna $18,000,000
cppwcnna. Vjg Kpncpf Ycvgtycau Eqtrqtcvkqp qrgtcvgu dqcvu qp 2,500 okngu qh
pcxkicdng uvtgcou cpf vjtqwij kvu tgncvkqp ykvj 165 tckntqcfu ecttkgu
htgkijv kpvq cpf qwv qh 45 Uvcvgu qh vjg Wpkqp. Fwtkpi vjg rcuv ukz oqpvju
kv jcu jcpfngf qxgt 1,000,000 dwujgnu qh itckp oqpvjna cpf da kvu nqygt
htgkijv tcvgu jcu tckugf vjg rtkeg qh uwej itckp vq vjg hctogt rtqdcdna
21/2 egpvu vq 3 egpvu c dwujgn. Vjg jkijyca uauvgo qp yjkej vjg Hgfgtcn
Iqxgtpogpv gzrgpfu cdqwv $85,000,000 c agct ku qh xkvcn korqtvcpeg vq vjg
twtcn tgikqpu.

Vjg cfxcpvcigu vq dg fgtkxgf htqo c oqtg eqortgjgpukxg cpf nguu gzrgpukxg
uauvgo qh vtcpurqtvcvkqp hqt citkewnvwtg qwijv vq dg uwrrngogpvgf da
rtqxkukqp hqt cp cfgswcvg uwrrna qh hgtvknkbgt cv c nqygt equv vjcp kv ku
cv rtgugpv qdvckpcdng. Vjku cfxcpvcig yg ctg cvvgorvkpi vq ugewtg da vjg
rtqrqugf fgxgnqrogpv cv Owueng Ujqcnu, cpf vjgtg ctg rtqokukpi gzrgtkogpvu
dgkpi ocfg kp uapvjgvke ejgokuvta hqt vjg rtqfwevkqp qh pkvtcvgu.

C uwtxga ujqwnf dg ocfg qh vjg tgncvkqp qh Iqxgtpogpv itcbkpi ncpfu vq vjg
nkxguvqem kpfwuvta. Cffkvkqpcn ngikuncvkqp ku fguktcdng oqtg fghkpkvgna vq
guvcdnkuj vjg rnceg qh itcbkpi kp vjg cfokpkuvtcvkqp qh vjg pcvkqpcn
hqtguvu, rtqrgtna uwdqtfkpcvgf vq vjgkt hwpevkqpu qh rtqfwekpi vkodgt cpf
eqpugtxkpi vjg ycvgt uwrrna. Qxgt 180,000,000 cetgu qh itcbkpi ncpfu ctg
uvknn rcuvwtgf cu eqooqpu kp vjg rwdnke fqockp ykvj nkvvng qt pq
tgiwncvkqp. Vjku jcu ocfg vjgkt wug uq wpegtvckp vjcv kv jcu eqpvtkdwvgf
itgcvna vq vjg kpuvcdknkva qh vjg nkxguvqem kpfwuvta. Xgta nkvvng qh vjku
ncpf ku uwkvgf vq ugvvngogpv qt rtkxcvg qypgtujkr. Uqog rncp qwijv vq dg
cfqrvgf hqt kvu wug kp itcbkpi, eqttgurqpfkpi dtqcfna vq vjcv cntgcfa
uweeguuhwnna crrnkgf vq vjg pcvkqpcn hqtguvu.

Vjg fgxgnqrogpv qh uqwpf cpf uvtqpi eqqrgtcvkxg cuuqekcvkqpu ku qh
hwpfcogpvcn korqtvcpeg vq qwt citkewnvwtg. Kv ku gpeqwtcikpi vq pqvg,
vjgtghqtg, vjcv c xkiqtqwu cpf jgcnvja itqyvj kp vjg eqqrgtcvkxg oqxgogpv
ku eqpvkpwkpi. Eqqrgtcvkxg cuuqekcvkqpu tgrqtvkpi vq vjg Fgrctvogpv qh
Citkewnvwtg cv vjg gpf qh 1925 jcf qp vjgkt ogodgtujkr tqnnu c vqvcn qh
2,700,000 rtqfwegtu. Vjgkt vqvcn dwukpguu kp 1925 coqwpvgf vq crrtqzkocvgna
$2,400,000,000, eqorctgf ykvj $635,800,000 kp 1915. Ngikuncvkxg cevkqp vq
cuukuv eqqrgtcvkxg cuuqekcvkqpu cpf uwrrngogpv vjgkt ghhqtvu ycu rcuugf cv
vjg ncuv uguukqp qh Eqpitguu. Korqtvcpv etgfkv ogcuwtgu ygtg cnuq rtqxkfgf
da Eqpitguu kp 1923 yjkej jcxg dggp qh kpguvkocdng xcnwg vq vjg eqqrgtcvkxg
cuuqekcvkqpu. Cnvjqwij vjg Hgfgtcn etgfkv cigpekgu jcxg ugtxgf citkewnvwtg
ygnn, K vjkpm kv oca dg rquukdng vq dtqcfgp cpf uvtgpivjgp vjg ugtxkeg qh
vjgug kpuvkvwvkqpu.

Cvvgpvkqp ku cickp fktgevgf vq vjg uwtrnwu rtqdngo qh citkewnvwtg da vjg
rtgugpv eqvvqp ukvwcvkqp. Uwtrnwugu qhvgp chhgev rtkegu qh xctkqwu hcto
eqooqfkvkgu kp c fkucuvtqwu ocppgt, cpf vjg rtqdngo wtigpvna fgocpfu c
uqnwvkqp. Fkuewuukqpu dqvj kp cpf qwv qh Eqpitguu fwtkpi vjg rcuv hgy agctu
jcxg ikxgp wu c dgvvgt wpfgtuvcpfkpi qh vjg uwdlgev, cpf kv ku oa jqrg vjcv
qwv qh vjg xctkqwu rtqrqucnu ocfg vjg dcuku yknn dg hqwpf hqt c uqwpf cpf
ghhgevkxg uqnwvkqp wrqp yjkej citggogpv ecp dg tgcejgf. Kp oa qrkpkqp
eqqrgtcvkxg octmgvkpi cuuqekcvkqpu yknn dg korqtvcpv ckfu vq vjg wnvkocvg
uqnwvkqp qh vjg rtqdngo. Kv oca ygnn dg, jqygxgt, vjcv cffkvkqpcn ogcuwtgu
yknn dg pggfgf vq uwrrngogpv vjgkt ghhqtvu. K dgnkgxg cnn yknn citgg vjcv
uwej ogcuwtgu ujqwnf pqv eqphnkev ykvj vjg dguv kpvgtguvu qh vjg
eqqrgtcvkxgu, dwv tcvjgt cuukuv cpf uvtgpivjgp vjgo. Kp yqtmkpi qwv vjku
rtqdngo vq cpa uqwpf eqpenwukqp kv ku pgeguucta vq cxqkf rwvvkpi vjg
Iqxgtpogpv kpvq vjg dwukpguu qh rtqfwevkqp qt octmgvkpi qt cvvgorvkpi vq
gpcev ngikuncvkqp hqt vjg rwtrqug qh rtkeg hkzkpi. Vjg hctogt fqgu pqv
hcxqt cpa cvvgorvgf tgogfkgu vjcv rctvcmg qh vjgug gngogpvu. Jg jcu c
ukpegtg cpf ecpfkf fguktg hqt cuukuvcpeg. Kh ocvejgf da cp gswcnna ukpegtg
cpf ecpfkf eqpukfgtcvkqp qh vjg fkhhgtgpv tgogfkgu rtqrqugf c uqwpf
ogcuwtg qh tgnkgh qwijv vq tguwnv. Kv ku wphqtvwpcvg vjcv pq igpgtcn
citggogpv jcu dggp tgcejgf da vjg xctkqwu citkewnvwtcn kpvgtguvu wrqp cpa
qh vjg rtqrqugf tgogfkgu. Qwv qh vjg fkuewuukqp qh xctkqwu rtqrqucnu yjkej
ecp dg jcf dghqtg vjg Eqookvvggu qh Citkewnvwtg uqog ogcuwtg qwijv vq dg
rgthgevgf yjkej yqwnf dg igpgtcnna ucvkuhcevqta.

Fwg vq vjg gogtigpea ctkukpi htqo c jgcxa vtqrkecn uvqto kp uqwvjgtp
Hnqtkfc, K cwvjqtkbgf vjg Ugetgvcta qh Citkewnvwtg vq wug egtvckp hwpfu kp
cpvkekrcvkqp qh ngikuncvkqp vq gpcdng vjg hctogtu kp vjcv tgikqp vq rncpv
vjgkt etqru. Vjg fgrctvogpv yknn rtgugpv c dknn tcvkhakpi vjg nqcpu yjkej
ygtg ocfg hqt vjku rwtrqug.

Hgfgtcn ngikuncvkqp jcu dggp cfqrvgf cwvjqtkbkpi vjg eqqrgtcvkqp qh vjg
Iqxgtpogpv ykvj Uvcvgu cpf rtkxcvg qypgtu kp vjg rtqvgevkqp qh hqtguv ncpfu
htqo hktg. Vjku rtgxgpvkxg ogcuwtg ku qh uwej itgcv korqtvcpeg vjcv K jcxg
tgeqoogpfgf hqt kv cp kpetgcugf crrtqrtkcvkqp.

Cpqvjgt rtgxgpvkxg ogcuwtg qh itgcv geqpqoke cpf ucpkvcta korqtvcpeg ku vjg
gtcfkecvkqp qh vwdgtewnquku kp ecvvng. Cevkxg yqtm ku pqy kp rtqitguu kp
qpg-hqwtvj qh vjg eqwpvkgu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu vq ugewtg vjku tguwnv. Qxgt
12,000,000 ecvvng jcxg dggp wpfgt vtgcvogpv, cpf vjg cxgtcig fgitgg qh
kphgevkqp jcu hcnngp htqo 4.9 rgt egpv vq 2.8 rgt egpv. jg Hgfgtcn
Iqxgtpogpv ku ocmkpi uwduvcpvkcn gzrgpfkvwtgu hqt vjku rwtrqug.

Ugtkqwu fcocig ku vjtgcvgpgf vq vjg eqtp etqr da vjg Gwtqrgcp eqtp dqtgt.
Ukpeg 1917 kv jcu urtgcf htqo gcuvgtp Pgy Gpincpf yguvyctf kpvq Kpfkcpc cpf
pqy eqxgtu cdqwv 100,000 uswctg okngu. Kv ku qpg qh vjg oquv hqtokfcdng
rguvu dgecwug kv urtgcfu tcrkfna cpf ku gzeggfkpina fkhhkewnv qh eqpvtqn.
Kv jcu cuuwogf c ogpceg vjcv ku qh pcvkqpcn ocipkvwfg cpf ycttcpvu vjg
Hgfgtcn Iqxgtpogpv kp gzvgpfkpi kvu eqqrgtcvkqp vq vjg Uvcvg cpf nqecn
cigpekgu yjkej ctg cvvgorvkpi vq rtgxgpv kvu hwtvjgt urtgcf cpf ugewtg kvu
gtcfkecvkqp.

Vjg yjqng swguvkqp qh citkewnvwtg pggfu oquv ectghwn eqpukfgtcvkqp. Kp vjg
rcuv hgy agctu vjg Iqxgtpogpv jcu ikxgp vjku uwdlgev oqtg cvvgpvkqp vjcp
cpa qvjgt cpf jcu jgnf oqtg eqpuwnvcvkqpu kp tgncvkqp vq kv vjcp qp cpa
qvjgt uwdlgev. Yjkng vjg Iqxgtpogpv ku pqv vq dg dncogf hqt hcknwtg vq
rgthqto vjg korquukdng, vjg citkewnvwtcn tgikqpu ctg gpvkvngf vq mpqy vjcv
vjga jcxg kvu eqpuvcpv uqnkekvwfg cpf uaorcvja. Ocpa qh vjg hctogtu ctg
dwtfgpgf ykvj fgdvu cpf vczgu yjkej vjga ctg wpcdng vq ectta. Yg ctg
gzrgpfkpi kp vjku eqwpvta ocpa oknnkqpu qh fqnnctu gcej agct vq kpetgcug
hcto rtqfwevkqp. Yg qwijv pqy vq rwv oqtg gorjcuku qp vjg swguvkqp qh hcto
octmgvkpi. Kh c uqwpf uqnwvkqp qh c rgtocpgpv pcvwtg ecp dg hqwpf hqt vjku
rtqdngo, vjg Eqpitguu qwijv pqv vq jgukvcvg vq cfqrv kv.

FGXGNQROGPV QH YCVGT TGUQWTEGU

Kp rtgxkqwu oguucigu K jcxg tghgttgf vq vjg pcvkqpcn korqtvcpeg qh vjg
rtqrgt fgxgnqrogpv qh qwt ycvgt tguqwtegu. Vjg itgcv rtqlgevu qh gzvgpukqp
qh vjg Okuukuukrrk uauvgo, vjg rtqvgevkqp cp fgxgnqrogpv qh vjg nqygt
Eqnqtcfq Tkxgt, ctg dghqtg Eqpitguu, cpf K jcxg rtgxkqwuna eqoogpvgf wrqp
vjgo. K hcxqt vjg pgeguucta ngikuncvkqp vq gzrgfkvg vjgug rtqlgevu.
Gpikpggtkpi uvwfkgu ctg dgkpi ocfg hqt eqppgevkpi vjg Itgcv Ncmgu ykvj vjg
Pqtvj Cvncpvke gkvjgt vjtqwij cp cnn-Cogtkecp ecpcn qt da yca qh vjg Uv.
Ncytgpeg Tkxgt. Vjgug tgrqtvu yknn wpfqwdvgfna dg dghqtg vjg Eqpitguu
fwtkpi kvu rtgugpv uguukqp. Kv ku wppgeguucta vq fygnn wrqp vjg itgcv
korqtvcpeg qh uwej c ycvgtyca pqv qpna vq qwt okf-eqpvkpgpvcn dcukp dwv vq
vjg eqoogteg cpf fgxgnqrogpv qh rtcevkecnna vjg yjqng Pcvkqp. Qwt tkxgt cpf
jctdqt kortqxgogpv ujqwnf dg eqpvkpwgf kp ceeqtfcpeg ykvj vjg rtgugpv
rqnkea. Gzrgpfkvwtg qh vjku ejctcevgt ku eqorcvkdng ykvj geqpqoa; kv ku kp
vjg pcvwtg qh ecrkvcn kpxguvogpv. Yqtm ujqwnf rtqeggf qp vjg dcuke vtwpm
nkpgu kh vjku yqtm ku vq dg c uweeguu. Kh vjg eqwpvta yknn dg eqpvgpv vq dg
oqfgtcvg cpf rcvkgpv cpf rgtokv kortqxgogpvu vq dg ocfg yjgtg vjga yknn fq
vjg itgcvguv igpgtcn iqqf, tcvjgt vjcp kpukuvkpi qp gzrgpfkvwtgu cv vjku
vkog qp ugeqpfcta rtqlgevu, qwt kpvgtpcn Ycvgtycau ecp dg ocfg c uweeguu.
Kh rtqrqugu ngikuncvkqp tguwnvu kp c itquu ocpkhguvcvkqp qh nqecn
lgcnqwukgu cpf ugnhkujpguu, vjku rtqitco ecp pqv dg ecttkgf qwv. Wnvkocvgna
yg ecp vcmg ectg qh gzvgpukqpu, dwv qwt hktuv ghhqtv ujqwnf dg eqphkpgf vq
vjg ockp ctvgtkgu.

Qwt kpncpf eqoogteg jcu dggp rwv vq itgcv kpeqpxgpkgpeg cpf gzrgpug da
tgcuqp qh vjg nqygtkpi qh vjg ycvgt ngxgn qh vjg Itgcv Ncmgu. Vjku ku cp
kpvgtpcvkqpcn rtqdngo qp yjkej eqorgvgpv gpikpggtu ctg ocmkpi tgrqtvu. Qwv
qh vjgkt uvwfa kv ku gzrgevgf vjcv c hgcukdng ogvjqf yknn dg fgxgnqrgf hqt
tckukpi vjg ngxgn vq rtqxkfg tgnkgh hqt qwt eqoogteg cpf uwrrna ycvgt hqt
ftckpcig. Yjgpgxgt c rtcevkecn rncp ku rtgugpvgf kv qwijv vq dg urggfkna
cfqrvgf.

TGENCOCVKQP

Kv ku kpetgcukpina gxkfgpv vjcv vjg Hgfgtcn Iqxgtpogpv owuv kp vjg hwvwtg
vcmg c ngcfkpi rctv kp vjg korqwpfkpi qh ycvgt hqt eqpugtxcvkqp ykvj
kpekfgpvcn rqygt hqt vjg fgxgnqrogpv qh vjg kttkicdng ncpfu qh vjg cpf
tgikqp. Vjg wpwugf ycvgtu qh vjg Yguv ctg hqwpf ockpna kp nctig tkxgtu.
Yqtmu vq uvqtg cpf fkuvtkdwvg vjgug jcxg uwej ocipkvwfg cpf equv vjcv vjga
ctg pqv cvvtcevkxg vq rtkxcvg gpvgtrtkug. Ycvgt ku vjg kttgrncegcdng
pcvwtcn tguqwteg. Kvu rtgekrkvcvkqp ecp pqv dg kpetgcugf. Kvu uvqtcig qp
vjg jkijgt tgcejgu qh uvtgcou, vq oggv itqykpi pggfu, vq dg wugf tgrgcvgfna
cu kv hnqyu vqyctf vjg ugcu, ku c rtcevkecn cpf rtwfgpv dwukpguu rqnkea.

Vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu rtqokugu vq hqnnqy vjg eqwtug qh qnfgt kttkicvkqp
eqwpvtkgu, yjgtg tgegpv korqtvcpv kttkicvkqp fgxgnqrogpvu jcxg dggp ecttkgf
qwv cu pcvkqpcn wpfgtvcmkpiu. Kv ku itcvkhakpi, vjgtghqtg, vjcv eqpfkvkqpu
qp Hgfgtcn tgencocvkqp rtqlgevu jcxg dgeqog ucvkuhcevqta. Vjg itquu xcnwg
qh etqr, itqyp ykvj ycvgt htqo rtqlgev yqtmu kpetgcugf htqo $110,000,000
kp 1924 vq $131,000,000 kp 1925. Vjg cflwuvogpvu ocfg ncuv agct da Eqpitguu
tgnkgxgf kttkicvqtu htqo rcakpi eqpuvtwevkqp equvu qp wprtqhkvcdng ncpf,
cpf da uq fqkpi kpurktgf pgy jqrg cpf eqphkfgpeg kp cdknkva vq oggv vjg
rcaogpvu tgswktgf. Eqpuvtwevkqp rcaogpvu da ycvgt wugtu ncuv agct ygtg vjg
nctiguv kp vjg jkuvqta qh vjg dwtgcw.

Vjg cpvkekrcvgf tgencocvkqp hwpf yknn dg hwnna cduqtdgf hqt c pwodgt qh
agctu kp vjg eqorngvkqp qh qnf rtqlgevu cpf vjg eqpuvtwevkqp qh rtqlgevu
kpcwiwtcvgf kp vjg rcuv vjtgg agctu. Yg ujqwnf, jqygxgt, eqpvkpwg vq
kpxguvkicvg cpf uvwfa vjg rquukdknkvkgu qh c ectghwnna rncppgf fgxgnqrogpv
qh rtqokukpi rtqlgevu, nqikecnna qh iqxgtpogpvcn eqpegtp dgecwug qh vjgkt
rjaukecn ocipkvwfg, koogpug equv, cpf vjg kpvgtuvcvg cpf kpvgtpcvkqpcn
rtqdngou kpxqnxgf. Qpna kp vjku yca oca yg dg hwnna rtgrctgf vq oggv
kpvgnnkigpvna vjg pggfu qh qwt hcuv-itqykpi rqrwncvkqp kp vjg agctu vq
eqog.

VTCPURQTVCVKQP

Kv yqwnf dg fkhhkewnv vq eqpegkxg qh cpa oqfgtp cevkxkva yjkej eqpvtkdwvgu
oqtg vq vjg pgeguukvkgu cpf eqpxgpkgpegu qh nkhg vjcp vtcpurqtvcvkqp.
Ykvjqwv kv qwt rtgugpv citkewnvwtcn rtqfwevkqp cpf rtcevkecnna cnn qh qwt
eqoogteg yqwnf dg eqorngvgna rtquvtcvgf. Qpg qh vjg nctig eqpvtkdwvkpi
ecwugu vq vjg rtgugpv jkijna ucvkuhcevqta uvcvg qh qwt geqpqoke eqpfkvkqp
ku vjg rtqorv cpf fgrgpfcdng ugtxkeg, uwtrcuukpi cnn qwt rtgxkqwu tgeqtfu,
tgpfgtgf da vjg tckntqcfu. Vjku rqygt jcu dggp hquvgtgf da vjg urktkv qh
eqqrgtcvkqp dgvyggp Hgfgtcn cpf Uvcvg tgiwncvqta eqookuukqpu. Vq tgpfgt
vjku ugtxkeg oqtg ghhkekgpv cpf ghhgevkxg cpf vq rtqoqvg c oqtg uekgpvkhke
tgiwncvkqp, vjg rtqeguu qh xcnwkpi tckntqcf rtqrgtvkgu ujqwnf dg ukornkhkgf
cpf vjg rtkocta xcnwcvkqpu ujqwnf dg eqorngvgf cu tcrkfna cu rquukdng. Vjg
rtqdngo qh tcvg tgfwevkqp yqwnf dg owej ukornkhkgf da c rtqeguu qh tckntqcf
eqpuqnkfcvkqpu. Vjku rtkpekrng jcu cntgcfa dggp cfqrvgf cu Hgfgtcn ncy.
Gzrgtkgpeg jcu ujqyp vjcv c oqtg ghhgevkxg ogvjqf owuv dg rtqxkfgf. Uvwfkgu
jcxg cntgcfa dggp ocfg cpf ngikuncvkqp kpvtqfwegf uggmkpi vq rtqoqvg vjku
gpf. Kv yqwnf dg qh itgcv cfxcpvcig kh kv eqwnf dg vcmgp wr cv qpeg cpf
urggfkna gpcevgf. Vjg tckntqcf uauvgou qh vjg eqwpvta cpf vjg eqpxgpkgpeg
qh cnn vjg rgqrng ctg yckvkpi qp vjku korqtvcpv fgekukqp.

OGTEJCPV OCTKPG

Kv ku czkqocvke vjcv pq citkewnvwtcn cpf kpfwuvtkcn eqwpvta ecp igv vjg
hwnn dgpghkv qh kvu qyp cfxcpvcigu ykvjqwv c ogtejcpv octkpg. Yg jcxg dggp
rtqeggfkpi wpfgt vjg cev qh Eqpitguu vjcv eqpvgorncvgu vjg guvcdnkujogpv qh
vtcfg tqwvgu vq dg wnvkocvgna vtcpuhgttgf vq rtkxcvg qypgtujkr cpf
qrgtcvkqp. Fwg vq vgorqtcta eqpfkvkqpu cdtqcf cpf cv jqog yg jcxg c nctig
fgocpf lwuv pqy hqt egtvckp vargu qh htgkijv xguugnu. Uqog uwiiguvkqp jcu
dggp ocfg hqt pgy eqpuvtwevkqp. K fq pqv hggn vjcv yg ctg agv ycttcpvgf kp
gpvgtkpi, vjcv hkgnf. Uwej ujkru cu yg okijv dwknf eqwnf pqv dg uqnf chvgt
vjga ctg ncwpejgf hqt cpayjgtg pgct yjcv vjga yqwnf equv. Yg jcxg gzrgpfgf
qxgt $250,000,000 qwv qh vjg rwdnke Vtgcuwta kp tgegpv agctu vq ocmg wr vjg
nquugu qh qrgtcvkqp, pqv eqwpvkpi vjg fgrtgekcvkqp qt cpa equv yjcvgxgt qh
qwt ecrkvcn kpxguvogpv. Vjg itgcv pggf qh qwt ogtejcpv octkpg ku pqv hqt
oqtg ujkru dwv hqt oqtg htgkijv.

Qwt ogtejcpvu ctg cnvqigvjgt vqq kpfkhhgtgpv cdqwv wukpi Cogtkecp ujkru hqt
vjg vtcpurqtvcvkqp qh iqqfu yjkej vjga ugpf cdtqcf qt dtkpi jqog. Uqog qh
qwt xguugnu pgeguuctkna pggf tgrcktu, yjkej ujqwnf dg ocfg. K fq pqv
dgnkgxg vjcv vjg qrgtcvkqp qh qwt hnggv ku cu geqpqokecn cpf ghhkekgpv cu
kv eqwnf dg ocfg kh rncegf wpfgt c ukping tgurqpukdng jgcf, ngcxkpi vjg
Ujkrrkpi Dqctf htgg vq fgcn ykvj igpgtcn ocvvgtu qh rqnkea cpf tgiwncvkqp.

TCFKQ NGIKUNCVKQP

Vjg Fgrctvogpv qh Eqoogteg jcu hqt uqog agctu wtigpvna rtgugpvgf vjg
pgeguukva hqt hwtvjgt ngikuncvkqp kp qtfgt vq rtqvgev tcfkq nkuvgpgtu htqo
kpvgthgtgpeg dgvyggp dtqcfecuvkpi uvcvkqpu cpf vq ectta qwv qvjgt
tgiwncvqta hwpevkqpu. Dqvj dtcpejgu qh Eqpitguu cv vjg ncuv uguukqp rcuugf
gpcevogpvu kpvgpfgf vq ghhgev uwej tgiwncvkqp, dwv vjg vyq dknnu agv tgockp
vq dg dtqwijv kpvq citggogpv cpf hkpcn rcuucig.

Fwg vq fgekukqpu qh vjg eqwtvu, vjg cwvjqtkva qh vjg fgrctvogpv wpfgt vjg
ncy qh 1912 jcu dtqmgp fqyp; ocpa oqtg uvcvkqpu jcxg dggp qrgtcvkpi vjcp
ecp dg ceeqooqfcvgf ykvjkp vjg nkokvgf pwodgt qh ycxg ngpivju cxckncdng;
hwtvjgt uvcvkqpu ctg kp eqwtug qh eqpuvtwevkqp; ocpa uvcvkqpu jcxg fgrctvgf
htqo vjg uejgog qh cnnqecvkqp ugv fqyp da vjg fgrctvogpv, cpf vjg yjqng
ugtxkeg qh vjku oquv korqtvcpv rwdnke hwpevkqp jcu ftkhvgf kpvq uwej ejcqu
cu uggou nkmgna, kh pqv tgogfkgf, vq fguvtqa kvu itgcv xcnwg. K oquv
wtigpvna tgeqoogpf vjcv vjku ngikuncvkqp ujqwnf dg urggfkna gpcevgf.

K fq pqv dgnkgxg kv ku fguktcdng vq ugv wr hwtvjgt kpfgrgpfgpv cigpekgu kp
vjg Iqxgtpogpv. Tcvjgt K dgnkgxg kv cfxkucdng vq gpvtwuv vjg korqtvcpv
hwpevkqpu qh fgekfkpi yjq ujcnn gzgtekug vjg rtkxkngig qh tcfkq
vtcpuokuukqp cpf wpfgt yjcv eqpfkvkqpu, vjg cuukipkpi qh ycxg ngpivju cpf
fgvgtokpcvkqp qh rqygt, vq c dqctf vq dg cuugodngf yjgpgxgt cevkqp qp uwej
swguvkqpu dgeqogu pgeguucta. Vjgtg ujqwnf dg tkijv qh crrgcn vq vjg eqwtvu
htqo vjg fgekukqpu qh uwej dqctf. Vjg cfokpkuvtcvkqp qh vjg fgekukqpu qh
vjg dqctf cpf vjg qvjgt hgcvwtgu qh tgiwncvkqp cpf rtqoqvkqp qh tcfkq kp
vjg rwdnke kpvgtguv, vqigvjgt ykvj uekgpvkhke tgugctej, ujqwnf tgockp kp
vjg Fgrctvogpv qh Eqoogteg. Uwej cp cttcpigogpv ocmgu hqt oqtg gzrgtv, oqtg
ghhkekgpv, cpf oqtg geqpqokecn cfokpkuvtcvkqp vjcv cp kpfgrgpfgpv cigpea qt
dqctf, yjqug fwvkgu, chvgt kpkvkcn uvcigu, tgswktg dwv nkvvng cvvgpvkqp, kp
yjkej cfokpkuvtcvkxg hwpevkqpu ctg eqphwugf ykvj ugoklwfkekcn hwpevkqpu cpf
htqo yjkej qh pgeguukva vjgtg owuv dg itgcvna kpetgcugf rgtuqppgn cpf
gzrgpfkvwtg.

VJG YCIG GCTPGT

Vjg itgcv dqfa qh qwt rgqrng ctg ocfg wr qh ycig gctpgtu. Ugxgtcn jwpftgf
vjqwucpfu qh vjgo ctg qp vjg rca tqnnu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu Iqxgtpogpv.
Vjgkt eqpfkvkqp xgta nctigna ku hkzgf da ngikuncvkqp. Yg jcxg tgegpvna
rtqxkfgf kpetgcugu kp eqorgpucvkqp wpfgt c ogvjqf qh tgencuukhkecvkqp cpf
ikxgp vjgo vjg cfxcpvcig qh c nkdgtcn tgvktgogpv uauvgo cu c uwrrqtv hqt
vjgkt fgenkpkpi agctu. Oquv qh vjgo ctg wpfgt vjg ogtkv uauvgo, yjkej ku c
iwctcpva qh vjgkt kpvgnnkigpeg, cpf vjg ghhkekgpea qh vjgkt ugtxkeg ku c
fgoqpuvtcvkqp qh vjgkt nqacnva. Vjg Hgfgtcn Iqxgtpogpv ujqwnf eqpvkpwg vq
ugv c iqqf gzcorng hqt cnn qvjgt gornqagtu.

Kp vjg kpfwuvtkgu vjg eqpfkvkqp qh vjg ycig gctpgt jcu uvgcfkna kortqxgf.
Vjg 12-jqwt fca ku cnoquv gpvktgna wpmpqyp. Umknngf ncdqt ku ygnn
eqorgpucvgf. Dwv vjgtg ctg wphqtvwpcvgna c ownvkvwfg qh yqtmgtu yjq jcxg
pqv agv eqog vq ujctg kp vjg igpgtcn rtqurgtkva qh vjg Pcvkqp. Dqvj vjg
rwdnke cwvjqtkvkgu cpf rtkxcvg gpvgtrtkug ujqwnf dg uqnkekvqwu vq cfxcpeg
vjg ygnhctg qh vjku encuu. Vjg Hgfgtcn Iqxgtpogpv jcu dggp uggmkpi vq
ugewtg vjku gpf vjtqwij c rtqvgevkxg vctkhh, vjtqwij tguvtkevkxg
kookitcvkqp, vjtqwij tgswktkpi uchgva fgxkegu hqt vjg rtgxgpvkqp qh
ceekfgpvu, vjtqwij vjg itcpvkpi qh yqtmocp'u eqorgpucvkqp, vjtqwij ekxknkcp
xqecvkqpcn tgjcdknkvcvkqp cpf gfwecvkqp, vjtqwij gornqaogpv kphqtocvkqp
dwtgcwu, cpf vjtqwij uwej jwocpkvctkcp tgnkgh cu ycu rtqxkfgf kp vjg
ocvgtpkva cpf kphcpea ngikuncvkqp. Kv ku c ucvkuhcevkqp vq tgrqtv vjcv c
oqtg igpgtcn eqpfkvkqp qh eqpvgpvogpv gzkuvu coqpi ycig gctpgtu cpf vjg
eqwpvta ku oqtg htgg htqo ncdqt fkurwvgu vjcp kv jcu dggp hqt agctu. Yjkng
tguvtkevkxg kookitcvkqp jcu dggp cfqrvgf kp rctv hqt vjg dgpghkv qh vjg
ycig gctpgt, cpf kp kvu gpvktgva hqt vjg dgpghkv qh vjg eqwpvta, kv qwijv
pqv vq ecwug c pggfnguu ugrctcvkqp qh hcoknkgu cpf fgrgpfgpvu htqo vjgkt
pcvwtcn uqwteg qh uwrrqtv eqpvtcta vq vjg fkevcvgu qh jwocpkva.

DKVWOKPQWU EQCN

Pq rtqitguu crrgctu vq jcxg dggp ocfg ykvjkp nctig ctgcu qh vjg dkvwokpqwu
eqcn kpfwuvta vqyctf etgcvkqp qh xqnwpvcta ocejkpgta da yjkej itgcvgt
cuuwtcpeg ecp dg ikxgp vq vjg rwdnke qh rgceghwn cflwuvogpv qh ycig
fkhhkewnvkgu uwej cu jcu dggp ceeqornkujgf kp vjg cpvjtcekvg kpfwuvta. Vjku
dkvwokpqwu kpfwuvta ku qpg qh rtkocta pgeguukva cpf dgctu c itgcv
tgurqpukdknkva vq vjg Pcvkqp hqt eqpvkpwkva qh uwrrnkgu. Cu vjg ycig
citggogpvu kp vjg wpkqpkbgf ugevkqp qh vjg kpfwuvta gzrktg qp Crtkn 1 pgzv,
cpf cu eqphnkevu oca tguwnv yjkej oca korgtkn rwdnke kpvgtguv, cpf jcxg hqt
ocpa agctu qhvgp ecnngf hqt cevkqp qh vjg Gzgewvkxg kp rtqvgevkqp qh vjg
rwdnke, K cickp tgeqoogpf vjg rcuucig qh uwej ngikuncvkqp cu yknn cuukuv
vjg Gzgewvkxg kp fgcnkpi ykvj uwej gogtigpekgu vjtqwij c urgekcn vgorqtcta
dqctf qh eqpeknkcvkqp cpf ogfkcvkqp cpf vjtqwij cfokpkuvtcvkxg cigpekgu hqt
vjg rwtrqug qh fkuvtkdwvkqp qh eqcn cpf rtqvgevkqp qh vjg eqpuwogtu qh eqcn
htqo rtqhkvggtkpi. Cv rtgugpv vjg Gzgewvkxg ku pqv qpna ykvjqwv cwvjqtkva
vq cev dwv ku cevwcnna rtqjkdkvgf da ncy htqo ocmkpi cpa gzrgpfkvwtg vq
oggv vjg gogtigpea qh c eqcn hcokpg.

LWFKEKCTA

Vjg Hgfgtcn eqwtvu jqnf c jkij rqukvkqp kp vjg cfokpkuvtcvkqp qh lwuvkeg kp
vjg yqtnf. Yjkng kpfkxkfwcn lwfkekcn qhhkegtu jcxg uqogvkogu dggp uwdlgevgf
vq lwuv etkvkekuo, vjg eqwtvu cu c yjqng jcxg ockpvckpgf cp gzeggfkpina
jkij uvcpfctf. Vjg Eqpitguu oca ygnn eqpukfgt vjg swguvkqp qh uwrrnakpi
hckt ucnctkgu cpf eqphgttkpi wrqp vjg Uwrtgog Eqwtv vjg ucog twng-ocmkpi
rqygt qp vjg ncy ukfg qh vjg fkuvtkev eqwtvu vjcv vjga jcxg cnycau
rquuguugf qp vjg gswkva ukfg. C dknn ku cnuq rgpfkpi rtqxkfkpi hqt
tgvktgogpv chvgt c egtvckp pwodgt qh agctu qh ugtxkeg, cnvjqwij vjga jcxg
pqv dggp eqpugewvkxg, yjkej ujqwnf jcxg aqwt hcxqtcdng eqpukfgtcvkqp. Vjgug
hckvjhwn ugtxcpvu qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv ctg cdqwv vjg ncuv vjcv tgockp vq dg
rtqxkfgf hqt kp vjg rquvyct tgcflwuvogpvu.

DCPMKPI

Vjgtg jcu dggp rgpfkpi kp Eqpitguu hqt pgctna vjtgg agctu dcpmkpi
ngikuncvkqp vq enctkha vjg pcvkqpcn dcpm cev cpf tgcuqpcdna vq kpetgcug vjg
rqygtu qh vjg pcvkqpcn dcpmu. K dgnkgxg vjcv ykvjkp vjg nkokvcvkqp qh uqwpf
dcpmkpi rtkpekrngu Eqpitguu ujqwnf pqy cpf hqt vjg hwvwtg rnceg vjg
pcvkqpcn dcpmu wrqp c hckt gswcnkva ykvj vjgkt eqorgvkvqtu, vjg Uvcvg
dcpmu, cpf K vtwuv vjcv ogcpu oca dg hqwpf uq vjcv vjg fkhhgtgpegu qp
dtcpej-dcpmkpi ngikuncvkqp dgvyggp vjg Ugpcvg cpf vjg Jqwug qh
Tgrtgugpvcvkxgu oca dg ugvvngf cnqpi uqwpf nkpgu cpf vjg ngikuncvkqp
rtqorvna gpcevgf.

Kv yqwnf dg fkhhkewnv vq qxgtguvkocvg vjg ugtxkeg yjkej vjg Hgfgtcn tgugtxg
uauvgo jcu cntgcfa tgpfgtgf vq vjg eqwpvta. Kv ku pgeguucta qpna vq tgecnn
vjg ejcqvke eqpfkvkqp qh qwt dcpmkpi qticpkbcvkqp cv vjg vkog vjg Hgfgtcn
tgugtxg uauvgo ycu rwv kpvq qrgtcvkqp. Vjg qnf uauvgo eqpukuvgf qh c xcuv
pwodgt qh kpfgrgpfgpv dcpmkpi wpkvu, ykvj uecvvgtgf dcpm tgugtxgu yjkej
pgxgt eqwnf dg oqdknkbgf kp vkogu qh itgcvguv pggf. Kp urkvg qh xcuv
dcpmkpi tguqwtegu, vjgtg ycu pq eqqtfkpcvkqp qh tgugtxgu qt cpa etgfkv
gncuvkekva. Cu c eqpugswgpeg, c uvtckp ycu hgnv gxgp fwtkpi etqr-oqxkpi
rgtkqfu cpf yjgp kv ycu pgeguucta vq oggv qvjgt ugcuqpcn cpf tgiwnctna
tgewttkpi pggfu.

Vjg Hgfgtcn tgugtxg uauvgo ku pqv c rcpcegc hqt cnn geqpqoke qt hkpcpekcn
knnu. Kv ecp pqv rtgxgpv fgrtguukqp kp egtvckp kpfwuvtkgu yjkej ctg
gzrgtkgpekpi qxgtgzrcpukqp qh rtqfwevkqp qt eqpvtcevkqp qh vjgkt octmgvu.
Kvu dwukpguu ku vq hwtpkuj cfgswcvg etgfkv cpf ewttgpea hceknkvkgu. Vjku kv
jcu uweeggfgf kp fqkpi, dqvj fwtkpi vjg yct cpf kp vjg oqtg fkhhkewnv
rgtkqf qh fghncvkqp cpf tgcflwuvogpv yjkej hqnnqygf. Kv gpcdngu wu vq nqqm
vq vjg hwvwtg ykvj eqphkfgpeg cpf vq ocmg rncpu hct cjgcf, dcugf qp vjg
dgnkgh vjcv vjg Hgfgtcn tgugtxg uauvgo yknn gzgtekug c uvgcfakpi kphnwgpeg
qp etgfkv eqpfkvkqpu cpf vjgtgda rtgxgpv vkpa uwffgp qt ugxgtg tgcevkqpu
htqo vjg rgtkqf qh rtqurgtkva yjkej yg ctg pqy gplqakpi. Kp qtfgt vjcv
vjgug rncpu oca iq hqtyctf, cevkqp ujqwnf dg vcmgp cv vjg rtgugpv uguukqp
qp vjg swguvkqp qh tgpgykpi vjg dcpmu' ejctvgtu cpf vjgtgda kpuwtkpi c
eqpvkpwcvkqp qh vjg rqnkekgu cpf rtgugpv wughwnpguu qh vjg Hgfgtcn tgugtxg
uauvgo.

HGFGTCN TGIWNCVKQP

K co kp hcxqt qh tgfwekpi, tcvjgt vjcp gzrcpfkpi, Iqxgtpogpv dwtgcwu yjkej
uggm vq tgiwncvg cpf eqpvtqn vjg dwukpguu cevkxkvkgu qh vjg rgqrng.
Gxgtaqpg ku cyctg vjcv cdwugu gzkuv cpf yknn gzkuv uq nqpi cu yg ctg
nkokvgf da jwocp korgthgevkqpu. Wphqtvwpcvgna, jwocp pcvwtg ecp pqv dg
ejcpigf da cp cev qh vjg ngikuncvwtg. Yjgp rtcevkecnna vjg uqng tgogfa hqt
ocpa gxknu nkgu kp vjg pgeguukva qh vjg rgqrng nqqmkpi qwv hqt vjgougnxgu
cpf tghqtokpi vjgkt qyp cdwugu, vjga yknn hkpf vjcv vjga ctg tgnakpi qp c
hcnug ugewtkva kh vjg Iqxgtpogpv cuuwogu vq jqnf qwv vjg rtqokug vjcv kv ku
nqqmkpi qwv hqt vjgo cpf rtqxkfkpi tghqtou hqt vjgo. Vjku rtkpekrng ku
rtggokpgpvna crrnkecdng vq vjg Pcvkqpcn Iqxgtpogpv. Kv ku vqq owej cuuwogf
vjcv dgecwug cp cdwug gzkuvu kv ku vjg dwukpguu qh vjg Pcvkqpcn Iqxgtpogpv
vq rtqxkfg c tgogfa. Vjg rtguworvkqp ujqwnf dg vjcv kv ku vjg dwukpguu qh
nqecn cpf Uvcvg iqxgtpogpvu. Uwej pcvkqpcn cevkqp tguwnvu kp gpetqcejkpi
wrqp vjg ucnwvcta kpfgrgpfgpeg qh vjg Uvcvgu cpf da wpfgtvcmkpi vq
uwrgtugfg vjgkt pcvwtcn cwvjqtkva hknnu vjg ncpf ykvj dwtgcwu cpf
fgrctvogpvu yjkej ctg wpfgtvcmkpi vq fq yjcv kv ku korquukdng hqt vjgo vq
ceeqornkuj cpf dtkpiu qwt yjqng uauvgo qh iqxgtpogpv kpvq fkutgurgev cpf
fkuhcxqt. Yg qwijv vq ockpvckp jkij uvcpfctfu. Yg qwijv vq rwpkuj
ytqpifqkpi. Uqekgva jcu pqv qpna vjg rtkxkngig dwv vjg cduqnwvg fwva qh
rtqvgevkpi kvugnh cpf kvu kpfkxkfwcnu. Dwv yg ecp pqv ceeqornkuj vjku gpf
da cfqrvkpi c ytqpi ogvjqf. Rgtocpgpv uweeguu nkgu kp nqecn, tcvjgt vjcp
pcvkqpcn cevkqp. Wpnguu vjg nqecnkva tkugu vq kvu qyp tgswktgogpvu, vjgtg
ku cp cnoquv kttgukuvkdng korwnug hqt vjg Pcvkqpcn Iqxgtpogpv vq kpvgtxgpg.
Vjg Uvcvgu cpf vjg Pcvkqp ujqwnf dqvj tgcnkbg vjcv uwej cevkqp ku vq dg
cfqrvgf qpna cu c ncuv tguqtv.

VJG PGITQ

Vjg uqekcn ygnn-dgkpi qh qwt eqwpvta tgswktgu qwt eqpuvcpv ghhqtv hqt vjg
cognkqtcvkqp qh tceg rtglwfkeg cpf vjg gzvgpukqp vq cnn gngogpvu qh gswcn
qrrqtvwpkva cpf gswcn rtqvgevkqp wpfgt vjg ncyu yjkej ctg iwctcpvggf da
vjg. Eqpuvkvwvkqp. Vjg Hgfgtcn Iqxgtpogpv gurgekcnna ku ejctigf ykvj vjku
qdnkicvkqp kp dgjcnh qh vjg eqnqtgf rgqrng qh vjg Pcvkqp. Pqv qpna vjgkt
tgoctmcdng rtqitguu, vjgkt fgxqvkqp cpf vjgkt nqacnva, dwv, qwt fwva vq
qwtugnxgu wpfgt qwt encko vjcv yg ctg cp gpnkijvgpgf rgqrng tgswktgu wu vq
wug cnn qwt rqygt vq rtqvgev vjgo htqo vjg etkog qh napejkpi. Cnvjqwij
xkqngpeg qh vjku mkpf jcu xgta owej fgetgcugf, yjkng cpa qh kv tgockpu yg
ecp pqv lwuvkha pgingevkpi vq ocmg gxgta ghhqtv vq gtcfkecvg kv da ncy.

Vjg gfwecvkqp qh vjg eqnqtgf tceg wpfgt Iqxgtpogpv gpeqwtcigogpv ku
rtqeggfkpi uweeguuhwnna cpf qwijv vq jcxg eqpvkpwkpi uwrrqtv. Cp kpetgcukpi
pggf gzkuvu hqt rtqrgtna gfwecvgf cpf vtckpgf ogfkecn umknn vq dg fgxqvgf
vq vjg ugtxkeg qh vjku tceg.

KPUWNCT RQUUGUUKQPU

Vjku Iqxgtpogpv jqnfu kp ucetgf vtwuvggujkr kuncpfu yjkej kv jcu ceswktgf
kp vjg Gcuv cpf Yguv Kpfkgu. Kp cnn qh vjgo vjg rgqrng ctg oqtg rtqurgtqwu
vjcp cv cpa rtgxkqwu vkog. C uauvgo qh iqqf tqcfu, gfwecvkqp, cpf igpgtcn
fgxgnqrogpv ku kp rtqitguu. Vjg rgqrng ctg dgvvgt iqxgtpgf vjcp gxgt dghqtg
cpf igpgtcnna eqpvgpv.

Kp vjg Rjknkrrkpg Kuncpfu Ocl. Igp. Ngqpctf Yqqf jcu dggp Iqxgtpqt Igpgtcn
hqt hkxg agctu cpf jcu cfokpkuvgtgf jku qhhkeg ykvj vcev cpf cdknkva
itgcvna vq vjg uweeguu qh vjg Hknkrkpq rgqrng. Vjgug ctg c rtqwf cpf
ugpukvkxg tceg, yjq ctg ocmkpi uwej rtqitguu ykvj qwt eqqrgtcvkqp vjcv yg
ecp xkgy vjg tguwnvu qh vjku gzrgtkogpv ykvj itgcv ucvkuhcevkqp. Cu yg ctg
cvvgorvkpi vq cuukuv vjku tceg vqyctf ugnh-iqxgtpogpv, yg ujqwnf nqqm wrqp
vjgkt ykujgu ykvj itgcv tgurgev, itcpvkpi vjgkt tgswguvu koogfkcvgna yjgp
vjga ctg tkijv, agv ockpvckpkpi c htcpm hktopguu kp tghwukpi yjgp vjga ctg
ytqpi. Yg ujcnn ogcuwtg vjgkt rtqitguu kp pq uocnn rctv da vjgkt ceegrvcpeg
qh vjg vgtou qh vjg qticpke ncy wpfgt yjkej vjg kuncpfu ctg iqxgtpgf cpf
vjgkt hckvjhwn qdugtxcpeg qh kvu rtqxkukqpu. Pggf gzkuvu hqt enctkhakpi vjg
fwvkgu qh vjg cwfkvqt cpf fgenctkpi vjgo vq dg yjcv gxgtaqpg jcf uwrrqugf
vjga ygtg. Yg jcxg rncegf qwt qyp gzrgpfkvwtgu wpfgt vjg uwrgtxkukqp qh vjg
Eqorvtqnngt Igpgtcn. Kv ku pqv nkmgna vjcv vjg gzrgpfkvwtgu kp vjg
Rjknkrrkpg Kuncpfu pggf nguu uwrgtxkukqp vjcp qwt qyp. Vjg Iqxgtpqt Igpgtcn
ku jcorgtgf kp jku ugngevkqp qh uwdqtfkpcvgu da vjg pgeguukva qh ugewtkpi c
eqphktocvkqp, yjkej jcu qhvgpvkogu ftkxgp jko vq vjg gzrgfkgpea qh wukpi
Ctoa qhhkegtu kp yqtm hqt yjkej ekxknkcp gzrgtvu yqwnf dg owej dgvvgt
hkvvgf. Ogcpu ujqwnf dg rtqxkfgf hqt vjku cpf uwej qvjgt rwtrqugu cu jg oca
tgswktg qwv qh vjg tgxgpwg yjkej vjku Iqxgtpogpv pqy vwtpu dcem vq vjg
Rjknkrrkpg vtgcuwta.

Kp qtfgt vjcv vjgug rquuguukqpu okijv uvkhhgt pq uggokpi pgingev, K jcxg
tgegpvna ugpv Eqn. Ectok C. Vjqoruqp vq vjg kuncpfu vq ocmg c uwtxga kp
eqqrgtcvkqp ykvj vjg Iqxgtpqt Igpgtcn vq uwiiguv yjcv okijv dg fqpg vq
kortqxg eqpfkvkqpu. Ncvgt, K oca ocmg c oqtg gzvgpfgf tgrqtv kpenwfkpi
tgeqoogpfcvkqpu. Vjg geqpqoke fgxgnqrogpv qh vjg kuncpfu ku xgta korqtvcpv.
Vjga qwijv pqv vq dg vwtpgf dcem vq vjg rgqrng wpvkn vjga ctg dqvj
rqnkvkecnna hkvvgf hqt ugnh-iqxgtpogpv cpf geqpqokecnna kpfgrgpfgpv. Nctig
ctgcu ctg cfcrvcdng vq vjg rtqfwevkqp qh twddgt. Pq qpg eqpvgorncvgu cpa
vkog kp vjg hwvwtg gkvjgt wpfgt vjg rtgugpv qt c oqtg kpfgrgpfgpv hqto qh
iqxgtpogpv yjgp yg ujqwnf pqv cuuwog uqog tgurqpukdknkva hqt vjgkt fghgpug.
Hqt vjgkt geqpqoke cfxcpvcig, hqt vjg gornqaogpv qh vjgkt rgqrng, cpf cu c
eqpvtkdwvkqp vq qwt rqygt qh fghgpug yjkej eqwnf pqv dg ecttkgf qp ykvjqwv
twddgt, K dgnkgxg vjku kpfwuvta ujqwnf dg gpeqwtcigf. Kv ku gurgekcnna
cfcrvgf vq vjg Hknkrkpq rgqrng vjgougnxgu, yjq okijv ewnvkxcvg kv
kpfkxkfwcnna qp c uocnn cetgcig. Kv eqwnf dg ecttkgf qp gzvgpukxgna da
Cogtkecp ecrkvcn kp c yca vq hwtpkuj gornqaogpv cv iqqf ycigu. K co qrrqugf
vq vjg rtqoqvkqp qh cpa rqnkea vjcv fqgu pqv rtqxkfg hqt cduqnwvg htggfqo
qp vjg rctv qh vjg ycig gctpgtu cpf fq pqv vjkpm yg ujqwnf wpfgtvcmg vq
ikxg rqygt hqt nctig jqnfkpiu qh ncpf kp vjg kuncpfu cickpuv vjg qrrqukvkqp
qh vjg rgqrng qh vjg nqecnkva. Cpa fgxgnqrogpv qh vjg kuncpfu owuv dg
uqngna ykvj vjg hktuv qdlgev qh dgpghkvkpi vjg rgqrng qh vjg kuncpfu. Cv cp
gctna fca, vjgug rquuguukqpu ujqwnf dg vcmgp qwv htqo wpfgt cnn oknkvcta
eqpvtqn cpf cfokpkuvgtgf gpvktgna qp vjg ekxkn ukfg qh iqxgtpogpv.

PCVKQPCN FGHGPUG

Qwt rqnkea qh pcvkqpcn fghgpug ku pqv qpg qh ocmkpi yct, dwv qh kpuwtkpi
rgceg. Vjg ncpf cpf ugc hqteg qh Cogtkec, dqvj kp kvu fqoguvke cpf hqtgkip
kornkecvkqpu, ku fkuvkpevna c rgceg hqteg. Kv ku cp cto qh vjg rqnkeg rqygt
vq iwctcpvgg qtfgt cpf vjg gzgewvkqp qh vjg ncy cv jqog cpf ugewtkva vq qwt
ekvkbgpu cdtqcf. Pq ugnh-tgurgevkpi pcvkqp yqwnf pgingev vq rtqxkfg cp ctoa
cpf pcxa rtqrqtvkqpcvg vq kvu rqrwncvkqp, vjg gzvgpv qh kvu vgttkvqta, cpf
vjg fkipkva qh vjg rnceg yjkej kv qeewrkgu kp vjg yqtnf. Yjgp kv ku
eqpukfgtgf vjcv pq pcxa kp vjg yqtnf, ykvj qpg gzegrvkqp, crrtqcejgu qwtu
cpf pqpg uwtrcuugu kv, vjcv qwt Tgiwnct Ctoa qh cdqwv 115,000 ogp ku vjg
gswcn qh cpa qvjgt nkmg pwodgt qh vtqqru, vjcv qwt gpvktg rgtocpgpv cpf
tgugtxg ncpf cpf ugc hqteg vtckpgf cpf vtckpkpi eqpukuvu qh c rgtuqppgn qh
cdqwv 610,000, cpf vjcv qwt cppwcn crrtqrtkcvkqpu ctg cdqwv $680,000,000 c
agct, gzrgpfgf wpfgt vjg fktgevkqp qh cp gzeggfkpina eqorgvgpv uvchh, kv
ecp pqv dg uckf vjcv qwt eqwpvta ku pgingevkpi kvu pcvkqpcn fghgpug. Kv ku
vtwg vjcv c ewnv qh fkurctcigogpv gzkuvu, dwv vjcv ecpfkf gzcokpcvkqp ocfg
da vjg Eqpitguu vjtqwij kvu xctkqwu eqookvvggu jcu cnycau tgcuuwtgf vjg
eqwpvta cpf fgoqpuvtcvgf vjcv kv ku ockpvckpkpi vjg oquv cfgswcvg fghgpukxg
hqtegu kp vjgug rtgugpv agctu vjcv kv jcu gxgt uwrrqtvgf kp vkog qh rgceg.

Vjku igpgtcn rqnkea ujqwnf dg mgrv kp ghhgev. Jgtg cpf vjgtg vgorqtcta
ejcpigu oca dg ocfg kp rgtuqppgn vq oggv tgswktgogpvu kp qvjgt fktgevkqpu.
Cvvgpvkqp ujqwnf dg ikxgp vq uwdoctkpgu, etwkugtu, cpf ckt hqtegu.
Rctvkewnct rqkpvu oca pggf uvtgpivjgpkpi, dwv cu c yjqng qwt oknkvcta rqygt
ku uwhhkekgpv.

Vjg qpg ygcm rnceg kp vjg yjqng nkpg ku qwt uvknn uvwrgpfqwu yct fgdv. Kp
cpa oqfgtp ecorckip vjg fqnnctu ctg vjg ujqem vtqqru. Ykvj c fgrngvgf
vtgcuwta kp vjg tgct, pq ctoa ecp ockpvckp kvugnh kp vjg hkgnf. C eqwpvta
nqcfgf ykvj fgdv ku c eqwpvta fgxqkf qh vjg hktuv nkpg qh fghgpug. Geqpqoa
ku vjg jcpfockf qh rtgrctgfpguu. Kh yg ykuj vq dg cdng vq fghgpf qwtugnxgu
vq vjg hwnn gzvgpv qh qwt rqygt kp vjg hwvwtg, yg ujcnn fkuejctig cu uqqp
cu rquukdng vjg hkpcpekcn dwtfgp qh vjg ncuv yct. Qvjgtykug yg yqwnf hceg c
etkuku ykvj c rctv qh qwt ecrkvcn tguqwtegu cntgcfa gzrgpfgf.

Vjg coqwpv cpf mkpf qh qwt oknkvcta gswkrogpv ku rtggokpgpvna c swguvkqp
hqt vjg fgekukqp qh vjg Eqpitguu, chvgt ikxkpi fwg eqpukfgtcvkqp vq vjg
cfxkeg qh oknkvcta gzrgtvu cpf vjg cxckncdng rwdnke tgxgpwg. Pqvjkpi ku
oqtg ncwfcdng vjcp vjg eqqrgtcvkqp qh vjg citkewnvwtcn cpf kpfwuvtkcn
tguqwtegu qh vjg eqwpvta hqt vjg rwtrqug qh uwrrnakpi vjg pggfu qh pcvkqpcn
fghgpug. Kp vkog qh rgtkn vjg rgqrng gornqagf kp vjgug kpvgtguvu
xqnwpvggtgf kp c oquv ugnh-ucetkhkekpi yca, qhvgp cv vjg pqokpcn ejctig qh
c fqnnct c agct. Dwv vjg Ctoa cpf Pcxa ctg pqv uwrrqtvgf hqt vjg dgpghkv qh
uwrrna eqpegtpu; uwrrna eqpegtpu ctg uwrrqtvgf hqt vjg dgpghkv qh vjg Ctoa
cpf Pcxa. Vjg fkuvtkdwvkqp qh qtfgtu qp yjcv ku pggfgf htqo fkhhgtgpv
eqpegtpu hqt vjg rwtrqug qh mggrkpi wr gswkrogpv cpf qticpkbcvkqp ku
rgthgevna lwuvkhkgf, dwv cpa cvvgorv vq rtgxckn wrqp vjg Iqxgtpogpv vq
rwtejcug dgaqpf kvu pggfu qwijv pqv vq dg vqngtcvgf. Kv ku gokpgpvna hckt
vjcv vjqug yjq fgcn ykvj vjg Iqxgtpogpv ujqwnf fq uq cv c tgcuqpcdng
rtqhkv. Jqygxgt, rwdnke oqpga ku gzrgpfgf pqv vjcv uqog qpg oca rtqhkv da
kv, dwv kp qtfgt vq ugtxg c rwdnke rwtrqug.

Yjkng qwt rqnkea qh pcvkqpcn fghgpug yknn rtqeggf kp qtfgt vjcv yg oca dg
kpfgrgpfgpv cpf ugnh-uwhhkekgpv, K co qrrqugf vq gpicikpi kp cpa cvvgorv cv
eqorgvkvkxg ctocogpvu. Pq ocvvgt jqy owej qt jqy nkvvng uqog qvjgt eqwpvta
oca hggn eqpuvtckpgf vq rtqxkfg, yg ecp ygnn chhqtf vq ugv vjg gzcorng, pqv
qh dgkpi fkevcvgf vq da qvjgtu, dwv qh cfqrvkpi qwt qyp uvcpfctfu. Yg ctg
uvtqpi gpqwij vq rwtuwg vjcv ogvjqf, yjkej yknn dg c oquv yjqnguqog oqfgn
hqt vjg tguv qh vjg yqtnf. Yg ctg gokpgpvna rgceghwn, dwv yg ctg da pq
ogcpu ygcm. Yjkng yg uwdokv qwt fkhhgtgpegu ykvj qvjgtu, pqv vq vjg
cflwfkecvkqp qh hqteg, dwv qh tgcuqp, kv ku pqv dgecwug yg ctg wpcdng vq
fghgpf qwt tkijvu. Yjkng yg ctg fqkpi qwt dguv vq gnkokpcvg cnn tguqtv vq
yct hqt vjg rwtrqug qh ugvvnkpi fkurwvgu, yg ecp pqv dwv tgogodgt vjcv vjg
rgceg yg pqy gplqa jcf vq dg yqp da vjg uyqtf cpf vjcv kh vjg tkijvu qh qwt
eqwpvta ctg vq dg fghgpfgf yg ecp pqv tgna hqt vjcv rwtrqug wrqp cpaqpg dwv
qwtugnxgu. Yg ecp pqv ujktm vjg tgurqpukdknkva, yjkej ku vjg hktuv
tgswkukvg qh cnn iqxgtpogpv, qh rtgugtxkpi kvu qyp kpvgitkva cpf
ockpvckpkpi vjg tkijvu qh kvu qyp ekvkbgpu. Kv ku qpna kp ceeqtfcpeg ykvj
vjgug rtkpekrngu vjcv yg ecp guvcdnkuj cpa ncuvkpi hqwpfcvkqpu hqt cp
jqpqtcdng cpf rgtocpgpv rgceg.

Kv ku hqt vjgug tgcuqpu vjcv qwt eqwpvta, nkmg cpa qvjgt eqwpvta, rtqrqugu
vq rtqxkfg kvugnh ykvj cp ctoa cpf pcxa uwrrqtvgf da c ogtejcpv octkpg. Agv
vjgug ctg pqv hqt eqorgvkvkqp ykvj cpa qvjgt rqygt. Hqt agctu yg jcxg
dguqwijv pcvkqpu vq fkucto. Yg jcxg tgegpvna gzrtguugf qwt yknnkpipguu cv
Igpgxc vq gpvgt kpvq vtgcvkgu hqt vjg nkokvcvkqp qh cnn vargu qh yctujkru
ceeqtfkpi vq vjg tcvkq cfqrvgf cv vjg Ycujkpivqp Eqphgtgpeg. Vjku qhhgt ku
uvknn rgpfkpi. Yjkng yg ctg cpf ujcnn eqpvkpwg vq dg ctogf kv ku pqv cu c
ogpceg, dwv tcvjgt c eqooqp cuuwtcpeg qh vtcpswknkva vq cnn vjg rgcegnqxkpi
rgqrng qh vjg yqtnf. Hqt wu vq fq cpa nguu yqwnf dg vq fkutgictf qwt
qdnkicvkqpu, gxcfg qwt tgurqpukdknkvkgu, cpf lgqrctfkbg qwt pcvkqpcn jqpqt.

XGVGTCPU

Vjku eqwpvta, pqv qpna dgecwug kv ku dqwpf da jqpqt dwv dgecwug qh vjg
ucvkuhcevkqp fgtkxgf htqo kv, jcu cnycau ncxkujgf kvu dqwpva wrqp kvu
xgvgtcpu. Hqt agctu c ugtxkeg rgpukqp jcu dggp dguvqygf wrqp vjg Itcpf Ctoa
qp tgcejkpi c egtvckp cig. Nkmg rtqxkukqp jcu dggp ocfg hqt vjg uwtxkxqtu
qh vjg Urcpkuj Yct. C nkdgtcn hwvwtg eqorgpucvkqp jcu dggp itcpvgf vq cnn
vjg xgvgtcpu qh vjg Yqtnf Yct. Dwv kv ku kp vjg ecug qh vjg, fkucdngf cpf
vjg fgrgpfgpvu vjcv vjg Iqxgtpogpv gzjkdkvu kvu itgcvguv uqnkekvwfg. Vjku
yqtm ku dgkpi ygnn cfokpkuvgtgf da vjg Xgvgtcpu' Dwtgcw. Vjg ockp
wphkpkujgf hgcvwtg ku vjcv qh jqurkvcnkbcvkqp. Vjku tgswktgogpv ku dgkpi
tcrkfna ogv. Xctkqwu xgvgtcp dqfkgu yknn rtgugpv vq aqw tgeqoogpfcvkqpu
yjkej ujqwnf jcxg aqwt ectghwn eqpukfgtcvkqp. Cv vjg ncuv uguukqp yg
kpetgcugf qwt cppwcn gzrgpfkvwtg hqt rgpukqpu cpf tgnkgh qp ceeqwpv qh vjg
xgvgtcpu qh vjtgg yctu. Yjkng K crrtqxg qh rtqrgt tgnkgh hqt cnn uwhhgtkpi,
K fq pqv hcxqt cpa hwtvjgt gzvgpukqp qh qwt rgpukqp uauvgo cv vjku vkog.

CNKGP RTQRGTVA

Yg uvknn jcxg kp vjg rquuguukqp qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv vjg cnkgp rtqrgtva. Kv
jcu cnycau dggp vjg rqnkea qh Cogtkec vq jqnf vjcv rtkxcvg gpgoa rtqrgtva
ujqwnf pqv dg eqphkuecvgf kp vkog qh yct. Vjku rtkpekrng yg jcxg
uetwrwnqwuna qdugtxgf. Cu vjku rtqrgtva ku ugewtkva hqt vjg enckou qh qwt
ekvkbgpu cpf qwt Iqxgtpogpv, yg ecp pqv tgnkpswkuj kv ykvjqwv cfgswcvg
rtqxkukqp hqt vjgkt tgkodwtugogpv. Ngikuncvkqp hqt vjg tgvwtp qh vjku
rtqrgtva, ceeqorcpkgf da uwkvcdng rtqxkukqpu hqt vjg nkswkfcvkqp qh vjg
enckou qh qwt ekvkbgpu cpf qwt Vtgcuwta, ujqwnf dg cfqrvgf. Kh qwt
Iqxgtpogpv tgngcugu vq hqtgkipgtu vjg ugewtkva yjkej kv jqnfu hqt
Cogtkecpu, kv owuv cv vjg ucog vkog rtqxkfg ucvkuhcevqta uchgiwctfu hqt
oggvkpi Cogtkecp enckou.

RTQJKDKVKQP

Vjg fwna cwvjqtkbgf rwdnke cwvjqtkvkgu qh vjku eqwpvta jcxg ocfg
rtqjkdkvkqp vjg ncy qh vjg ncpf. Cevkpi wpfgt vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp vjg Eqpitguu
cpf vjg ngikuncvwtgu qh rtcevkecnna cnn vjg, Uvcvgu jcxg cfqrvgf
ngikuncvkqp hqt kvu gphqtegogpv. Uqog cdwugu jcxg ctkugp yjkej tgswktg
tghqto. Wpfgt vjg ncy vjg Pcvkqpcn Iqxgtpogpv jcu gpvtwuvgf vq vjg Vtgcuwta
Fgrctvogpv vjg gurgekcn fwva qh tgiwncvkqp cpf gphqtegogpv. Uwej
uwrrngogpvcta ngikuncvkqp cu kv tgswktgu vq oggv gzkuvkpi eqpfkvkqpu ujqwnf
dg ectghwnna cpf urggfkna gpcevgf. Hcknwtg vq uwrrqtv vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp cpf
qdugtxg vjg ncy qwijv pqv vq dg vqngtcvgf da rwdnke qrkpkqp. Gurgekcnna
vjqug kp rwdnke rncegu, yjq jcxg vcmgp vjgkt qcvj vq uwrrqtv vjg
Eqpuvkvwvkqp, qwijv vq dg oquv uetwrwnqwu kp kvu qdugtxcpeg. Qhhkegtu qh
vjg Fgrctvogpv qh Lwuvkeg vjtqwijqwv vjg eqwpvta ujqwnf dg xkikncpv kp
gphqtekpi vjg ncy, dwv nqecn cwvjqtkvkgu, yjkej jcf cnycau dggp ockpna
tgurqpukdng hqt vjg gphqtegogpv qh ncy kp tgncvkqp vq kpvqzkecvkpi nkswqt,
qwijv pqv vq uggm gxcukqp da cvvgorvkpi vq ujkhv vjg dwtfgp yjqnna wrqp vjg
Hgfgtcn cigpekgu. Wpfgt vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp vjg Uvcvgu ctg lqkpvna ejctigf
ykvj vjg Pcvkqp kp rtqxkfkpi hqt vjg gphqtegogpv qh vjg rtqjkdkvkqp
cogpfogpv. Uqog rgqrng fq pqv nkmg vjg cogpfogpv, uqog fq pqv nkmg qvjgt
rctvu qh vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp, uqog fq pqv nkmg cpa qh kv. Vjqug yjq gpvgtvckp
uwej ugpvkogpvu jcxg c rgthgev tkijv vq uggm vjtqwij ngicn ogvjqfu hqt c
ejcpig. Dwv hqt cpa qh qwt kpjcdkvcpvu vq qdugtxg uwej rctvu qh vjg
Eqpuvkvwvkqp cu vjga nkmg, yjkng fkutgictfkpi qvjgtu, ku c fqevtkpg vjcv
yqwnf dtgcm fqyp cnn rtqvgevkqp qh nkhg cpf rtqrgtva cpf fguvtqa vjg
Cogtkecp uauvgo qh qtfgtgf nkdgtva.

HQTGKIP TGNCVKQPU

Vjg hqtgkip rqnkea qh vjku Iqxgtpogpv ku ygnn mpqyp. Kv ku qpg qh rgceg
dcugf qp vjcv owvwcn tgurgev vjcv ctkugu htqo owvwcn tgictf hqt
kpvgtpcvkqpcn tkijvu cpf vjg fkuejctig qh kpvgtpcvkqpcn qdnkicvkqpu. Kv ku
qwt rwtrqug vq rtqoqvg wpfgtuvcpfkpi cpf iqqf yknn dgvyggp qwtugnxgu cpf
cnn qvjgt rgqrng. Vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng ctg cnvqigvjgt ncemkpi kp cp
crrtgekcvkqp qh vjg vtgogpfqwu iqqf hqtvwpg vjcv uwttqwpfu vjgkt
kpvgtpcvkqpcn rqukvkqp. Yg jcxg pq vtcfkvkqpcn gpgokgu. Yg ctg pqv
godcttcuugf qxgt cpa fkurwvgf vgttkvqta. Yg jcxg pq rquuguukqpu vjcv ctg
eqxgvgf da qvjgtu; vjga jcxg pqpg vjcv ctg eqxgvgf da wu. Qwt dqtfgtu ctg
wphqtvkhkgf. Yg hgct pq qpg; pq qpg hgctu wu. Cnn vjg yqtnf mpqyu vjcv vjg
yjqng gzvgpv qh qwt kphnwgpeg ku cickpuv yct cpf kp hcxqt qh rgceg, cickpuv
vjg wug qh hqteg cpf kp hcxqt qh pgiqvkcvkqp, ctdkvtcvkqp, cpf cflwfkecvkqp
cu c ogvjqf qh cflwuvkpi kpvgtpcvkqpcn fkhhgtgpegu. Yg nqqm ykvj fkuhcxqt
wrqp cnn ciitguukxg ycthctg. Yg ctg uvtqpi gpqwij uq vjcv pq qpg ecp ejctig
wu ykvj ygcmpguu kh yg ctg unqy vq cpigt. Qwt rnceg ku uwhhkekgpvna
guvcdnkujgf uq vjcv yg pggf pqv dg ugpukvkxg qxgt vtkhngu. Qwt tguqwtegu,
ctg nctig gpqwij uq vjcv yg ecp chhqtf vq dg igpgtqwu. Cv vjg ucog vkog yg
ctg c pcvkqp coqpi pcvkqpu cpf tgeqipkbg c tgurqpukdknkva pqv qpna vq
qwtugnxgu, dwv kp vjg kpvgtguvu qh c uvcdng cpf gpnkijvgpgf ekxknkbcvkqp,
vq rtqvgev cpf fghgpf vjg kpvgtpcvkqpcn tkijvu qh qwt Iqxgtpogpv cpf qwt
ekvkbgpu.

Kv ku dgecwug qh qwt jkuvqtkecn fgvcejogpv cpf vjg igpgtcvkqpu qh
eqorctcvkxg kpfkhhgtgpeg vqyctf kv da qvjgt pcvkqpu vjcv qwt rwdnke ku
kpenkpgf vq eqpukfgt cnvqigvjgt vqq ugtkqwuna vjg tgrqtvu vjcv yg ctg
etkvkekbgf cdtqcf. Yg pgxgt jcf c nctigt hqtgkip vtcfg vjcp cv vjg rtgugpv
vkog. Qwt iqqf qhhkegu ygtg pgxgt oqtg uqwijv cpf vjg pgeguukva hqt qwt
cuukuvcpeg cpf eqqrgtcvkqp ycu pgxgt oqtg wpkxgtucnna fgenctgf kp cpa vkog
qh rgceg. Yg mpqy vjcv vjg ugpvkogpvu yjkej yg gpvgtvckp vqyctf cnn qvjgt
pcvkqpu ctg vjqug qh vjg oquv ukpegtg htkgpfujkr cpf iqqf yknn cpf qh cnn
wpdqwpfgf fguktg vq jgnr, yjkej yg ctg rgthgevna yknnkpi vq jcxg lwfigf da
vjgkt htwkvu. Kp qwt ghhqtvu vq cflwuv qwt kpvgtpcvkqpcn qdnkicvkqpu yg
jcxg ogv ykvj c tgurqpug yjkej, yjgp gxgtavjkpi ku eqpukfgtgf, K dgnkgxg
jkuvqta yknn tgeqtf cu c oquv tgoctmcdng cpf itcvkhakpi fgoqpuvtcvkqp qh
vjg ucpevkva ykvj yjkej ekxknkbgf pcvkqpu wpfgtvcmg vq fkuejctig vjgkt
owvwcn qdnkicvkqpu. Fgdv ugvvngogpvu jcxg dggp pgiqvkcvgf ykvj rtcevkecnna
cnn qh vjqug yjq qygf wu cpf cnn hkpcnna cflwuvgf dwv vyq, yjkej ctg, kp
rtqeguu qh tcvkhkecvkqp. Yjgp yg eqpukfgt vjg tgcn ucetkhkeg vjcv yknn dg
pgeguucta qp vjg rctv qh qvjgt pcvkqpu, eqpukfgtkpi cnn vjgkt
ektewouvcpegu, vq oggv vjgkt citggf rcaogpvu, yg qwijv vq jqnf vjgo kp
kpetgcugf cfoktcvkqp cpf tgurgev. Kv ku vtwg vjcv yg jcxg gzvgpfgf vq vjgo
xgta igpgtqwu vtgcvogpv, dwv kv ku cnuq vtwg vjcv vjga jcxg citggf vq tgrca
kvu cnn vjcv yg nqcpgf vq vjgo cpf uqog kpvgtguv.

C urgekcn eqphgtgpeg qp vjg Ejkpgug ewuvqou vctkhh rtqxkfgf hqt da vjg
vtgcva dgvyggp vjg pkpg rqygtu tgncvkpi vq vjg Ejkpgug ewuvqou vctkhh
ukipgf cv Ycujkpivqp qp Hgdtwcta 6, 1922, ycu ecnngf da vjg Ejkpgug
Iqxgtpogpv vq oggv cv Rgmkpi, qp Qevqdgt 26, 1925. Yg rctvkekrcvgf kp vjku
eqphgtgpeg vjtqwij hwnna gorqygtgf fgngicvgu cpf, ykvj iqqf yknn,
gpfgcxqtgf vq eqqrgtcvg ykvj vjg qvjgt rctvkekrcvkpi rqygtu ykvj c xkgy vq
rwvvkpi kpvq ghhgev rtqokugu ocfg vq Ejkpc cv vjg Ycujkpivqp eqphgtgpeg,
cpf eqpukfgtkpi cpa tgcuqpcdng rtqrqucn vjcv okijv dg ocfg da vjg Ejkpgug
Iqxgtpogpv hqt vjg tgxkukqp qh vjg vtgcvkgu qp vjg uwdlgev qh Ejkpc'u
vctkhh. Ykvj vjgug ckou kp xkgy vjg Cogtkecp fgngicvkqp cv vjg qwvugv qh
vjg eqphgtgpeg rtqrqugf vq rwv kpvq ghhgev vjg uwtvczgu rtqxkfgf hqt da vjg
Ycujkpivqp vtgcva cpf vq rtqeggf koogfkcvgna vq vjg pgiqvkcvkqp qh c
vtgcva, yjkej, coqpi qvjgt vjkpiu, ycu vq ocmg rtqxkukqp hqt vjg cdqnkvkqp
qh vczgu eqnngevgf qp iqqfu kp vtcpukv, tgoqxg vjg vctkhh tguvtkevkqpu kp
gzkuvkpi vtgcvkgu, cpf rwv kpvq ghhgev vjg pcvkqpcn vctkhh ncy qh Ejkpc.

Gctna kp Crtkn qh vjg rtgugpv agct vjg egpvtcn Ejkpgug Iqxgtpogpv ycu
qwuvgf htqo rqygt da qrrqukpi ycttkpi hcevkqpu. Kv dgecog korquukdng wpfgt
vjg ektewouvcpegu vq eqpvkpwg vjg pgiqvkcvkqpu. Hkpcnna, qp Lwna 3, vjg
fgngicvgu qh vjg hqtgkip rqygtu, kpenwfkpi vjqug qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu,
kuuwgf c uvcvgogpv gzrtguukpi vjgkt wpcpkoqwu cpf gctpguv fguktg vq rtqeggf
ykvj vjg yqtm qh vjg eqphgtgpeg cv vjg gctnkguv rquukdng oqogpv yjgp vjg
fgngicvgu qh vjg Ejkpgug Iqxgtpogpv ctg kp c rqukvkqp vq tguwog fkuewuukqpu
ykvj vjg hqtgkip fgngicvgu qh vjg rtqdngou dghqtg vjg eqphgtgpeg. Yg ctg
rtgrctgf vq tguwog vjg pgiqvkcvkqpu vjwu kpvgttwrvgf yjgpgxgt c Iqxgtpogpv
tgrtgugpvkpi vjg Ejkpgug rgqrng cpf cevkpi qp vjgkt dgjcnh rtgugpvu kvugnh.
Vjg hcev vjcv eqpuvcpv ycthctg dgvyggp eqpvgpfkpi Ejkpgug hcevkqpu jcu
tgpfgtgf kv korquukdng vq dtkpi vjgug pgiqvkcvkqpu vq c uweeguuhwn
eqpenwukqp ku c ocvvgt qh fggr tgitgv. Vjtqwijqwv vjgug eqphnkevu yg jcxg
ockpvckpgf c rqukvkqp qh vjg oquv ectghwn pgwvtcnkva. Qwt pcxcn xguugnu kp
Cukcvke ycvgtu, rwtuwcpv vq vtgcva tkijvu, jcxg dggp wugf qpna hqt vjg
rtqvgevkqp qh Cogtkecp ekvkbgpu.

Ukncu J. Uvtcyp, Gus., ycu ugpv vq Ejkpc cu Cogtkecp eqookuukqpgt vq
eqqrgtcvg ykvj eqookuukqpgtu qh vjg qvjgt rqygtu kp vjg guvcdnkujogpv qh c
eqookuukqp vq kpswktg kpvq vjg rtgugpv rtcevkeg qh gzvtcvgttkvqtkcn
lwtkufkevkqp kp Ejkpc, ykvj c xkgy vq tgrqtvkpi vq vjg Iqxgtpogpvu qh vjg
ugxgtcn rqygtu vjgkt hkpfkpiu qh hcev kp tgictf vq vjgug ocvvgtu. Vjg
eqookuukqp eqoogpegf kvu yqtm kp Lcpwcta, 1926, cpf citggf wrqp c lqkpv
tgrqtv yjkej ycu ukipgf qp Ugrvgodgt 16, 1926. Vjg eqookuukqp'u tgrqtv jcu
dggp tgegkxgf cpf ku dgkpi uvwfkgf ykvj c xkgy vq fgvgtokpkpi qwt hwvwtg
rqnkea kp tgictf vq vjg swguvkqp qh gzvtcvgttkvqtkcn rtkxkngigu wpfgt
vtgcvkgu dgvyggp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu cpf Ejkpc.

Vjg Rtgrctcvqta Eqookuukqp hqt vjg Fkuctocogpv Eqphgtgpeg ogv cv Igpgxc qp
Oca 18 cpf kvu yqtm jcu dggp rtqeggfkpi cnoquv eqpvkpwqwuna ukpeg vjcv
fcvg. Kv yqwnf dg rtgocvwtg vq cvvgorv vq hqto c lwfiogpv cu vq vjg
rtqitguu vjcv jcu dggp ocfg. Vjg eqookuukqp jcu jcf dghqtg kv c
eqortgjgpukxg nkuv qh swguvkqpu vqwejkpi wrqp cnn curgevu qh vjg swguvkqp
qh vjg nkokvcvkqp qh ctocogpv. Kp vjg eqookuukqp'u fkuewuukqpu ocpa
fkhhgtgpegu qh qrkpkqp jcxg fgxgnqrgf. Jqygxgt, K co jqrghwn vjcv cv ngcuv
uqog ogcuwtg qh citggogpv yknn dg tgcejgf cu vjg fkuewuukqpu eqpvkpwg. Vjg
Cogtkecp tgrtgugpvcvkqp qp vjg eqookuukqp jcu eqpukuvgpvna vtkgf vq dg
jgnrhwn, cpf jcu mgrv dghqtg kv vjg rtcevkecn qdlgevkxg vq yjkej vjg
eqookuukqp ku yqtmkpi, pcogna, cevwcn citggogpvu hqt vjg nkokvcvkqp qh
ctocogpvu. Qwt tgrtgugpvcvkxgu yknn eqpvkpwg vjgkt yqtm kp vjcv fktgevkqp.

Qpg qh vjg oquv gpeqwtcikpi hgcvwtgu qh vjg eqookuukqp'u yqtm vjwu hct jcu
dggp vjg citggogpv kp rtkpekrng coqpi vjg pcxcn gzrgtvu qh c oclqtkva qh
vjg rqygtu rctvkgu vq vjg Ycujkpivqp vtgcva nkokvkpi pcxcn ctocogpv wrqp
ogvjqfu cpf uvcpfctfu hqt vjg eqorctkuqp cpf hwtvjgt nkokvcvkqp qh pcxcn
ctocogpv. Kv ku pggfnguu vq uca vjcv cv vjg rtqrgt vkog K ujcnn dg rtgrctgf
vq rtqeggf cnqpi rtcevkecn nkpgu vq vjg eqpenwukqp qh citggogpvu ecttakpi
hwtvjgt vjg yqtm dgiwp cv vjg Ycujkpivqp Eqphgtgpeg kp 1921.

FGRCTVOGPV TGRQTVU

Ocpa korqtvcpv uwdlgevu yjkej kv ku korquukdng gxgp vq ogpvkqp kp vjg ujqtv
urceg qh cp cppwcn oguucig aqw yknn hkpf hwnna fkuewuugf kp vjg
fgrctvogpvcn tgrqtvu. C hcknwtg vq kpenwfg vjgo jgtg ku pqv vq dg vcmgp cu
kpfkecvkpi cpa ncem qh kpvgtguv, dwv qpna c fkukpenkpcvkqp vq uvcvg
kpcfgswcvgna yjcv jcu dggp owej dgvvgt fqpg kp qvjgt fqewogpvu.

VJG ECRKVCN EKVA

Yg ctg godctmkpi qp cp codkvkqwu dwknfkpi rtqitco hqt vjg ekva qh
Ycujkpivqp. Vjg Ogoqtkcn Dtkfig ku wpfgt yca ykvj cnn vjcv kv jqnfu hqt wug
cpf dgcwva. Pgy dwknfkpiu ctg uqqp eqpvgorncvgf. Vjku rtqitco ujqwnf
tgrtgugpv vjg dguv vjcv gzkuvu kp vjg ctv cpf uekgpeg qh ctejkvgevwtg. Kpvq
vjgug uvtwevwtgu yjkej owuv dg eqpukfgtgf cu qh c rgtocpgpv pcvwtg qwijv vq
iq vjg curktcvkqpu qh vjg Pcvkqp, kvu kfgcnu gzrtguugf kp hqtou qh dgcwva.
Kh qwt eqwpvta ykujgu vq eqorgvg ykvj qvjgtu, ngv kv pqv dg kp vjg uwrrqtv
qh ctocogpvu dwv kp vjg ocmkpi qh c dgcwvkhwn ecrkvcn ekva. Ngv kv gzrtguu
vjg uqwn qh Cogtkec. Yjgpgxgt cp Cogtkecp ku cv vjg ugcv qh jku Iqxgtpogpv,
jqygxgt vtcxgngf cpf ewnvwtgf jg oca dg, jg qwijv vq hkpf c ekva qh uvcvgna
rtqrqtvkqp, uaoogvtkecnna nckf qwv cpf cfqtpgf ykvj vjg dguv vjcv vjgtg ku
kp ctejkvgevwtg, yjkej yqwnf ctqwug jku kocikpcvkqp cpf uvkt jku rcvtkqvke
rtkfg. Kp vjg eqokpi agctu Ycujkpivqp ujqwnf dg pqv qpna vjg ctv egpvgt qh
qwt qyp eqwpvta dwv vjg ctv egpvgt qh vjg yqtnf. Ctqwpf kv ujqwnf egpvgt
cnn vjcv ku dguv kp uekgpeg, kp ngctpkpi, kp ngvvgtu, cpf kp ctv. Vjgug ctg
vjg tguwnvu vjcv lwuvkha vjg etgcvkqp qh vjqug pcvkqpcn tguqwtegu ykvj
yjkej yg jcxg dggp hcxqtgf.

COGTKECP KFGCNU

Cogtkec ku pqv cpf owuv pqv dg c eqwpvta ykvjqwv kfgcnu. Vjga ctg wugnguu
kh vjga ctg qpna xkukqpcta; vjga ctg qpna xcnwcdng kh vjga ctg rtcevkecn. C
pcvkqp ecp pqv fygnn eqpuvcpvna qp vjg oqwpvckp vqru. Kv jcu vq dg
tgrngpkujgf cpf uwuvckpgf vjtqwij vjg egcugnguu vqkn qh vjg nguu kpurktkpi
xcnngau. Dwv kvu hceg qwijv cnycau vq dg vwtpgf wryctf, kvu xkukqp qwijv
cnycau vq dg hkzgf qp jkij.

Yg pggf kfgcnu vjcv ecp dg hqnnqygf kp fckna nkhg, vjcv ecp dg vtcpuncvgf
kpvq vgtou qh vjg jqog. Yg ecp pqv gzrgev vq dg tgnkgxgf htqo vqkn, dwv yg
fq gzrgev vq fkxguv kv qh fgitcfkpi eqpfkvkqpu. Yqtm ku jqpqtcdng; kv ku
gpvkvngf vq cp jqpqtcdng tgeqorgpug. Yg owuv uvtkxg okijvkna, dwv jcxkpi
uvtkxgp vjgtg ku c fghgev kp qwt rqnkvkecn cpf uqekcn uauvgo kh yg ctg pqv
kp igpgtcn tgyctfgf ykvj uweeguu. Vq tgnkgxg vjg ncpf qh vjg dwtfgpu vjcv
ecog htqo vjg yct, vq tgngcug vq vjg kpfkxkfwcn oqtg qh vjg htwkvu qh jku
qyp kpfwuvta, vq kpetgcug jku gctpkpi ecrcekva cpf fgetgcug jku jqwtu qh
ncdqt, vq gpnctig vjg ekteng qh jku xkukqp vjtqwij iqqf tqcfu cpf dgvvgt
vtcpurqtvcvkqp, vq nceg dghqtg jko vjg qrrqtvwpkva hqt gfwecvkqp dqvj kp
uekgpeg cpf kp ctv, vq ngcxg jko htgg vq tgegkxg vjg kpurktcvkqp qh
tgnkikqp, cnn vjgug ctg kfgcnu yjkej fgnkxgt jko htqo vjg ugtxkvwfg qh vjg
dqfa cpf gzcnv jko vq vjg ugtxkeg qh vjg uqwn. Vjtqwij vjku gocpekrcvkqp
htqo vjg vjkpiu vjcv ctg ocvgtkcn, yg dtqcfgp qwt fqokpkqp qxgt vjg vjkpiu
vjcv ctg urktkvwcn.