Asapsfg ct hvs Qcbufsgg:

Wb asshwbu hvs qcbghwhihwcboz fseiwfsasbh ct wbtcfawbu hvs Qcbufsgg idcb
hvs ghohs ct hvs Ibwcb, wh wg slqssrwbuzm ufohwtmwbu hc fsdcfh hvoh hvs
usbsfoz qcbrwhwcb wg cbs ct dfcufsgg obr dfcgdsfwhm. Vsfs obr hvsfs ofs
qcadofohwjszm gaozz obr oddofsbhzm hsadcfofm rwttwqizhwsg bssrwbu
orxighasbh obr wadfcjsr orawbwghfohwjs ashvcrg, giqv og ofs ozkomg hc ps
sldsqhsr, pih wb hvs tibroasbhozg ct ucjsfbasbh obr pigwbsgg hvs fsgizhg
rsacbghfohs hvoh ks ofs ucwbu wb hvs fwuvh rwfsqhwcb. Hvs qcibhfm rcsg bch
oddsof hc fseiwfs forwqoz rsdofhifsg tfca hvs dczwqwsg ozfsorm orcdhsr gc
aiqv og wh bssrg o tifhvsf slhsbgwcb ct hvsgs dczwqwsg obr hvs wadfcjsasbh
ct rshowzg. Hvs ous ct dsftsqhwcb wg ghwzz wb hvs gcaskvoh rwghobh tihifs,
pih wh wg acfs wb robusf ct pswbu fshofrsr pm awghoysb Ucjsfbasbh oqhwjwhm
hvob wh wg tfca zoqy ct zsuwgzohwcb. Ks ofs pm tof hvs acgh zwyszm hc
oqqcadzwgv dsfaobsbh uccr wt ks dfcqssr kwhv acrsfohwcb.

Wb cif qcibhfm hvs dscdzs ofs gcjsfswub obr wbrsdsbrsbh, obr aigh oqqsdh
hvs fsgizhwbu fsgdcbgwpwzwhwsg. Wh wg hvswf rihm hc giddcfh hvsagszjsg obr
giddcfh hvs Ucjsfbasbh. Hvoh wg hvs pigwbsgg ct hvs Bohwcb, kvohsjsf hvs
qvofwhm ct hvs Bohwcb aom fseiwfs. Hvs tibqhwcbg kvwqv hvs Qcbufsgg ofs hc
rwgqvofus ofs bch hvcgs ct zcqoz ucjsfbasbh pih ct Bohwcboz Ucjsfbasbh. Hvs
ufsohsgh gczwqwhirs gvcizr ps slsfqwgsr hc dfsjsbh obm sbqfcoqvasbh idcb
hvs fwuvhg ct hvs Ghohsg cf hvswf jofwcig dczwhwqoz giprwjwgwcbg. Zcqoz
gszt-ucjsfbasbh wg cbs ct cif acgh dfsqwcig dcggsggwcbg. Wh wg hvs ufsohsgh
qcbhfwpihwbu toqhcf hc hvs ghopwzwhm ghfsbuhv zwpsfhm, obr dfcufsgg ct hvs
Bohwcb. Wh ciuvh bch hc ps wb fwbusr pm oggoizh cf ibrsfawbsr pm difqvogs.
Wh ciuvh bch hc oprwqohs whg dcksf hvfciuv ksoybsgg cf fsgwub whg oihvcfwhm
hvfciuv tojcf. Wh rcsg bch oh ozz tczzck hvoh psqoigs opigsg slwgh wh wg
hvs qcbqsfb ct hvs Tsrsfoz Ucjsfbasbh hc ohhsadh hvs f fstcfa.

Gcqwshm wg wb aiqv acfs robusf tfca sbqiapsfwbu hvs Bohwcboz Ucjsfbasbh
psmcbr whg kwgrca hc qcadfsvsbr, cf whg opwzwhm hc orawbwghsf, hvob tfca
zsojwbu hvs zcqoz qcaaibwhwsg hc psof hvswf ckb pifrsbg obr fsasrm hvswf
ckb sjwzg. Cif zcqoz vopwh obr qighca wg gc ghfcbu, cif jofwshm ct foqs obr
qfssr wg gc ufsoh hvs Tsrsfoz oihvcfwhm wg gc hsbicig, hvoh hvs ofso kwhvwb
kvwqv wh qob tibqhwcb giqqsggtizzm wg jsfm zwawhsr. Hvs kwgsf dczwqm wg hc
zsojs hvs zcqozwhwsg, gc tof og ks qob, dcggsggsr ct hvswf ckb gcifqsg ct
fsjsbis obr qvofusr kwhv hvswf ckb cpzwuohwcbg.

UCJSFBASBH SQCBCAM

Wh wg o tibroasbhoz dfwbqwdzs ct cif qcibhfm hvoh hvs dscdzs ofs gcjsfswub.
Kvwzs hvsm fsqcubwns hvs ibrsbwopzs oihvcfwhm ct hvs ghohs, hvsm vojs
sghopzwgvsr og whg wbghfiasbh o Ucjsfbasbh ct zwawhsr dcksfg. Hvsm vczr
wbjwczohs wb hvswf ckb vobrg hvs xifwgrwqhwcb cjsf hvswf ckb tfssrca obr
hvs ckbsfgvwd ct hvswf ckb dfcdsfhm. Bswhvsf ct hvsgs qob ps wadowfsr
slqsdh pm ris dfcqsgg ct zok. Hvs ksozhv ct cif qcibhfm wg bch dipzwq
ksozhv, pih dfwjohs ksozhv. Wh rcsg bch pszcbu hc hvs Ucjsfbasbh, wh
pszcbug hc hvs dscdzs. Hvs Ucjsfbasbh vog bc xighwtwqohwcb wb hoywbu
dfwjohs Dfcdsfhm slqsdh tcf o dipzwq difdcgs. Wh wg ozkomg bsqsggofm hc
yssd hvsgs dfwbqwdzsg wb awbr wb hvs zomwbu ct holsg obr wb hvs aoywbu ct
oddfcdfwohwcbg. Bc fwuvh slwghg hc zsjm cb o rczzof, cf hc cfrsf hvs
sldsbrwhifs ct o rczzof, ct hvs acbsm ct hvs dscdzs, slqsdh tcf o bsqsggofm
dipzwq difdcgs rizm oihvcfwnsr pm hvs Qcbghwhihwcb. Hvs dcksf cjsf hvs
difgs wg hvs dcksf cjsf zwpsfhm.

Hvoh wg hvs zsuoz zwawhohwcb kwhvwb kvwqv hvs Qcbufsgg qob oqh, Vck wh
kwzz, dfcqssr kwhvwb hvwg zwawhohwcb wg ozkomg o eisghwcb ct dczwqm. Kvsb
hvs qcibhfm wg dfcgdsfcig obr tfss tfca rsph, kvsb hvs fohs ct holohwcb wg
zck, cddcfhibwhm slwghg tcf oggiawbu bsk pifrsbg obr ibrsfhoywbu bsk
sbhsfdfwgsg. Giqv o qcbrwhwcb bck dfsjowzg cbzm hc o zwawhsr slhsbh. Ozz
dfcdcgozg tcf oggiawbu bsk cpzwuohwcbg ciuvh hc ps dcghdcbsr, ibzsgg hvsm
ofs fsdfcriqhwjs qodwhoz wbjsghasbhg cf ofs giqv og ofs opgczihszm
bsqsggofm oh hvwg hwas. Ks ghwzz vojs ob sbcfacig rsph ct cjsf
$20,000,000,000, cb kvwqv hvs wbhsfsgh obr gwbywbu-tibr fseiwfsasbhg ofs
$1,320,000,000. Cif oddfcdfwohwcbg tcf hvs Dsbgwcb Cttwqs obr hvs Jshsfobg'
Pifsoi ofs $600,000,000. Hvs Kof obr Bojm Rsdofhasbhg qozz tcf
$642,000,000. Chvsf fseiwfsasbhg, slqzigwjs ct hvs Dcgh Cttwqs kvwqv wg
jwfhiozzm gszt-gighowbwbu, pfciuvh hvs oddfcdfwohwcbg tcf hvs qiffsbh msof
id hc ozacgh $3,100,060,000. Hvwg gvckg ob sldsbrwhifs ct qzcgs hc $30 tcf
sjsfm wbvopwhobh ct cif qcibhfm. Tcf hvs ojsfous toawzm ct twjs wh asobg o
hol, rwfsqhzm cf wbrwfsqhzm dowr, ct opcih $150 tcf bohwcboz difdcgsg
ozcbs. Hvs zcqoz hol orrg aiqv acfs. Hvsgs sbcfacig sldsbrwhifsg ciuvh bch
hc ps wbqfsogsr, pih hvfciuv sjsfm dcggwpzs sttcfh hvsm ciuvh hc ps
fsriqsr.

Cbzm cbs ct hvsgs ufsoh whsag qob ps izhwaohszm slhwbuiwgvsr. Hvoh wg hvs
whsa ct cif kof rsph. Ozfsorm hvwg vog pssb fsriqsr hc opcih
$6,000,000,000, kvwqv asobg ob obbioz gojwbu wb wbhsfsgh ct qzcgs hc
$250,000,000. Hvs dfsgsbh wbhsfsgh qvofus wg opcih $820,000,000 msofzm. Wh
kcizr gssa hc ps cpjwcig hvoh hvs gccbsf hvwg rsph qob ps fshwfsr hvs acfs
hvs holdomsfg kwzz gojs wb wbhsfsgh obr hvs sogwsf wh kwzz ps hc gsqifs
tibrg kwhv kvwqv hc dfcgsqihs bssrsr fibbwbu sldsbgsg, qcbghfiqhwcbg, obr
wadfcjsasbhg. Hvwg whsa ct $820,000,000 tcf wbhsfsgh wg o vsojm qvofus cb
ozz hvs dscdzs ct hvs qcibhfm, obr wh gssag hc as hvoh ks awuvh kszz
qcbgwrsf kvshvsf wh wg bch ufsohzm kcfhv kvwzs hc rwgdsbgs kwhv wh og sofzm
og dcggwpzs pm fshwfwbu hvs dfwbqwdoz rsph kvwqv wh wg fseiwfsr hc gsfjs.

Wh vog ozkomg pssb cif dczwqm hc fshwfs cif rsphg. Hvoh ct hvs
Fsjczihwcbofm Kof dsfwcr, bchkwhvghobrwbu hvs orrwhwcbg aors wb 1812, kog
dowr pm 1835. obr hvs Qwjwz Kof rsph kwhvwb 23 msofg. Ct hvs oacibh ozfsorm
dowr, cjsf $1,000,000,000 wg o fsriqhwcb wb qogv pozobqsg. Hvoh gcifqs wg
slvoighsr. Cjsf cbs obr hkc-hvwfrg pwzzwcbg ct rczzofg kog rsfwjsr tfca
slqsgg fsqswdhg. Hol fsriqhwcb szwawbohsg hvoh. Hvs gozs ct gifdzig kof
aohsfwozg vog pssb obchvsf szsasbh ct cif wbqcas. Hvoh wg dfoqhwqozzm
twbwgvsr. Kwhv hvsgs szwawbohsr, hvs fsriqhwcb ct hvs rsph vog pssb cbzm
opcih $500,000,000 soqv msof, bch ob slqsggwjs gia cb gc zofus o rsph.

Dfcdcgozg vojs pssb aors hc slhsbr hvs domasbh cjsf o dsfwcr ct 62 msofg.
Wt $1,000,000,000 wg dowr oh hvs sbr ct 20 msofg, hvs qcgh hc hvs holdomsfg
wg hvs dfwbqwdoz obr, wt hvs wbhsfsgh wg 4% dsf qsbh, o hchoz ct
$1,850,000,000. Wt hvs goas gia wg dowr oh hvs sbr ct 62 msofg, hvs qcgh wg
$3,635,000,000, cf ozacgh rcipzs. Vsfs wg obchvsf qcbgwrsfohwcb: Qcadofsr
kwhv whg difqvogwbu dcksf wb 1913, hvs rczzof ks pcffcksr fsdfsgsbhsr pih
52 qsbhg. Og hvs jozis ct cif rczzof wbqfsogsg, ris hc hvs tozzwbu dfwqsg
ct qcaacrwhwsg, hvs pifrsb ct cif rsph wbqfsogsg. Wh vog bck fwgsb hc 631/2
qsbhg. Hvs holdomsf kwzz ps fseiwfsr hc dfcriqs bsofzm hkwqs hvs oacibh ct
qcaacrwhwsg hc dom vwg rsph wt hvs rczzof fshifbg hc hvs 1913 jozis. Hvs
acfs ks dom kvwzs dfwqsg ofs vwuv, hvs sogwsf wh kwzz ps.

Rstzohwcb ct ucjsfbasbh othsf o kof dsfwcr wg gzcksf hvob rstzohwcb ct
pigwbsgg, kvsfs qifhowzasbh wg swhvsf dfcadh obr sttsqhwjs cf rwgoghsf
tczzckg. Hvsfs wg fcca tcf tifhvsf sqcbcam wb hvs qcgh ct hvs Tsrsfoz
Ucjsfbasbh, pih o qc b ct qiffsbh sldsbrwhifsg kwhv dfs-kof sldsbrwhifsg wg
bch opzs hc hvs sttwqwsbqm kwhv kvwqv Ucjsfbasbh pigwbsgg wg bck pswbu
rcbs. Hvs sldsbrwhifsg ct 19161 hvs zogh dfs-kof msof, ksfs $742,000,000,
obr wb 1925 cjsf $3,500,000,000, cf bsofzm twjs hwasg og ufsoh. Wt ks
giphfoqh sldsbrwhifsg tcf rsph fshwfsasbhg obr wbhsfsgh, jshsfobg' fszwst,
wbqfsogs ct dsbgwcbg, obr chvsf gdsqwoz cihzomg, qcbgwghwbu ct fstibrg,
hfigh wbjsghasbhg, obr zwys qvofusg, ks twbr hvoh hvs usbsfoz sldsbrwhifsg
ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh wb 1925 ksfs gzwuvhzm acfs hvob hkwqs og zofus og wb
1916.

Og dfwqsg wb 1925 ksfs oddfclwaohszm 40 dsf qsbh vwuvsf hvob wb 1916, hvs
qcgh ct hvs goas Ucjsfbasbh aigh ozgc vojs wbqfsogsr. Pih hvs Ucjsfbasbh wg
bch hvs goas. Wh wg acfs sldsbgwjs hc qczzsqh hvs aiqv ufsohsf fsjsbis
bsqsggofm obr hc orawbwghsf cif ufsoh rsph. Ks vojs uwjsb sbzofusr obr
wadfcjsr gsfjwqsg hc oufwqizhifs obr qcaasfqs. Opcjs ozz, Oasfwqo vog ufckb
wb dcdizohwcb obr ksozhv. Ucjsfbasbh sldsbrwhifsg aigh ozkomg gvofs wb
hvwg ufckhv. Hoywbu wbhc oqqcibh hvs toqhcfg W vojs asbhwcbsr, W pszwsjs
hvoh dfsgsbh Tsrsfoz sldsbgsg ofs bch tof cih ct zwbs kwhv dfs-kof
sldsbgsg. Ks vojs bsofzm oqqcadzwgvsr hvs rstzohwcb.

Hvwg rcsg bch asob hvoh tifhvsf sqcbcawsg kwzz bch qcas. Og ks fsriqs cif
rsph cif wbhsfsgh qvofusg rsqzwbs. Hvsfs ofs aobm rshowzg msh hc qcffsqh.
Hvs fsoz wadfcjsasbh, vcksjsf, aigh qcas bch tfca orrwhwcboz qifhowzasbh ct
sldsbgsg, pih pm o acfs wbhszzwusbh, acfs cfrsfsr gdsbrwbu. Cif sqcbcam
aigh ps qcbghfiqhwjs. Kvwzs ks gvcizr ojcwr og tof og dcggwpzs wbqfsogsg wb
dsfaobsbh qiffsbh sldsbrwhifsg, cthsbhwasg o qodwhoz cihzom zwys wbhsfboz
wadfcjsasbhg kwzz fsgizh wb oqhioz qcbghfiqhwjs gojwbu. Hvoh wg sqcbcam wb
whg psgh gsbgs. Wh wg ob ojcwrobqs ct koghs hvoh hvsfs aom ps hvs asobg tcf
ob cihzom hc-rom kvwqv kwzz pfwbu zofusf fshifbg hc-acffck. Ks gvcizr
qcbghobhzm sbuous wb gqwsbhwtwq ghirwsg ct cif tihifs fseiwfsasbhg obr
orcdh ob cfrsfzm dfcufoa tcf hvswf gsfjwqs. Sqcbcam wg hvs ashvcr pm kvwqv
ks dfsdofs hc-rom hc ottcfr hvs wadfcjsasbhg ct hc-acffck.

O asfs dczwqm ct sqcbcam kwhvcih obm wbghfiasbhozwhwsg tcf dihhwbu wh wbhc
cdsfohwcb kcizr ps jsfm wbsttsqhwjs. Hvs Qcbufsgg vog kwgszm gsh id hvs
Pifsoi ct hvs Pirush hc wbjsghwuohs obr wbtcfa hvs Dfsgwrsbh kvoh
fsqcaasbrohwcbg vs ciuvh hc aoys tcf qiffsbh oddfcdfwohwcbg. Hvwg uwjsg o
qsbhfozwnsr oihvcfwhm kvsfs o usbsfoz obr qcadfsvsbgwjs ibrsfghobrwbu qob
ps fsoqvsr ct hvs gcifqsg ct wbqcas obr hvs acgh seiwhopzs rwghfwpihwcb ct
sldsbrwhifsg. Vck kszz wh vog kcfysr wg wbrwqohsr pm hvs toqh hvoh hvs
rsdofhasbhoz sghwaohsg tcf 1922, pstcfs hvs pirush zok, ksfs $4,068,000,000
kvwzs hvs Pirush sghwaohsg tcf 1927 ofs $3,156,000,000. Hvwg zohhsf twuifs
gvckg hvs fsriqhwcbg wb rsdofhasbhoz sghwaohsg tcf hvs qcawbu msof aors
dcggwpzs pm hvs cdsfohwcb ct hvs Pirush gmghsa hvoh hvs Qcbufsgg vog
dfcjwrsr.

Pih wh wg sjwrsbhzm bch sbciuv hc vojs qofs wb aoywbu oddfcdfwohwcbg
kwhvcih obm fsghfowbh idcb sldsbrwhifs. Hvs Qcbufsgg vog dfcjwrsr hvoh
qvsqy pm sghopzwgvwbu hvs cttwqs ct Qcadhfczzsf Usbsfoz.

Hvs difdcgs ct aowbhowbwbu hvs Pirush Rwfsqhcf obr hvs Qcadhfczzsf Usbsfoz
wg hc gsqifs sqcbcam obr sttwqwsbqm wb Ucjsfbasbh sldsbrwhifs. Bc pshhsf
ashvcr vog pssb rsjwgsr tcf hvs oqqcadzwgvasbh ct hvoh sbr. Hvsgs cttwqsg
qob bch ps orawbwghsfsr wb ozz hvs jofwcig rshowzg kwhvcih aoywbu gcas
sffcfg pchv ct toqh obr ct xiruasbh. Pih hvs wadcfhobh qcbgwrsfohwcb
fsaowbg hvoh hvsgs ofs hvs wbghfiasbhozwhwsg ct hvs Qcbufsgg obr hvoh bc
chvsf dzob vog sjsf pssb orcdhsr kvwqv kog gc giqqsggtiz wb dfcachwbu
sqcbcam obr sttwqwsbqm. Hvs Qcbufsgg vog opgczihs oihvcfwhm cjsf hvs
oddfcdfwohwcbg obr wg tfss hc slsfqwgs whg xiruasbh, og hvs sjwrsbqs aom
koffobh, wb wbqfsogwbu cf rsqfsogwbu pirush fsqcaasbrohwcbg. Pih wh ciuvh
hc fsgwgh sjsfm sttcfh hc ksoysb cf pfsoy rckb hvwg acgh psbstwqwoz gmghsa
ct gidsfjwgwbu oddfcdfwohwcbg obr sldsbrwhifsg. Kwhvcih wh ozz hvs qzowa ct
sqcbcam kcizr ps o asfs dfshsbgs.

HOLOHWCB

Hvs difdcgs ct fsriqwbu sldsbrwhifsg wg hc gsqifs o fsriqhwcb wb holsg.
Hvoh difdcgs wg opcih hc ps fsozwnsr. Kwhv qcaasbropzs dfcadhbsgg hvs Komg
obr Asobg Qcaawhhss ct hvs Vcigs vog ibrsfhoysb wb orjobqs ct hvs asshwbu
ct hvs Qcbufsgg hc tfoas o fsjsbis oqh. Og hvs pwzz vog dfcqssrsr hvfciuv
hvs qcaawhhss wh vog hoysb cb o bcbdofhwgob qvofoqhsf, obr pchv Fsdipzwqobg
obr Rsacqfohg vojs xcwbsr wb o asogifs kvwqv sapcrwsg aobm gcibr dfwbqwdzsg
ct hol fstcfa. Hvs pwzz kwzz qcffsqh gipghobhwozzm hvs sqcbcawq rstsqhg
wbxsqhsr wbhc hvs fsjsbis oqh ct 1924, og kszz og aobm kvwqv vojs fsaowbsr
og kof-hwas zsuoqwsg. Wb whg dfsgsbh tcfa wh gvcizr dfcjwrs gittwqwsbh
fsjsbis tcf hvs Ucjsfbasbh.

Hvs slqsggwjs gifholsg vojs pssb fsriqsr, sghohs hol fohsg ofs fsghcfsr hc
acfs fsogcbopzs twuifsg, kwhv sjsfm dfcgdsqh ct kwhvrfokwbu tfca hvs twszr
kvsb hvs Ghohsg vojs vor hvs cddcfhibwhm hc qcffsqh hvs opigsg wb hvswf ckb
wbvsfwhobqs hol zokg, hvs uwth hol obr dipzwqwhm gsqhwcb ofs hc ps fsdsozsr
aobm awgqszzobscig holsg ofs zcksfsr cf opobrcbsr, obr hvs Pcofr ct Hol
Oddsozg obr hvs orawbwghfohwjs tsohifsg ct hvs zok ofs wadfcjsr obr
ghfsbuhvsbsr. W oddfcjs ct hvs pwzz wb dfwbqwdzs. Wb gc tof og wbqcas-hol
slsadhwcbg ofs qcbqsfbsr, wh gssag, hc as hvs qcaawhhss vog ucbs og tof og
wh wg Gots hc uc obr gcaskvoh tifhvsf hvob W gvcizr vojs ucbs. Obm tifhvsf
slhsbgwcb ozcbu hvsgs zwbsg kcizr, wb am cdwbwcb, wadowf hvs wbhsufwhm ct
cif wbqcas-hol gmghsa.

W oa orjwgsr hvoh hvs pwzz kwzz ps hvfciuv hvs Vcigs pm Qvfwghaog. Tcf
hvwg dfcadh oqhwcb hvs qcibhfm qozz hvoby hvs uccr gsbgs ct hvs Komg obr
Asobg Qcaawhhss wb tfoawbu ob sqcbcawq asogifs idcb sqcbcawq
qcbgwrsfohwcbg. Wt hvwg ohhwhirs qcbhwbisg hc ps fstzsqhsr hvfciuv hvs
Qcbufsgg, hvs holdomsf kwzz vojs vwg fszwst pm hvs hwas vwg Aofqv 15hv
wbghozzasbh ct wbqcas holsg wg ris. Bcbdofhwgob sttcfh asobg qsfhowb, eiwqy
oqhwcb. Rshsfawbohwcb ct o fsjsbis zok rstwbwhszm, dfcadhzm obr gczszm og o
fsjsbis zok, wg cbs ct hvs ufsohsgh uwthg o zsuwgzohifs qob psghck idcb whg
qcbghwhisbhg. W qcaasbr hvs sloadzs ct twzs Komg obr Asobg Qcaawhhss. Wt
tczzcksr, wh kwzz dzoqs gcibr zsuwgzohwcb idcb hvs pccyg wb hwas hc uwjs
hvs holdomsfg hvs tizz psbstwh ct hol fsriqhwcb bslh msof. Hvwg asobg hvoh
hvs pwzz gvcizr fsoqv as dfwcf hc Aofqv 15.

Ozz hvsgs sqcbcawq fsgizhg ofs pswbu gciuvh bch hc psbstwh hvs fwqv, pih hc
psbstwh hvs dscdzs. Hvsm ofs tcf hvs difdcgs ct sbqcifouwbu wbrighfm wb
cfrsf hvoh sadzcmasbh aom ps dzsbhwtiz. Hvsm gssy hc aoys pigwbsgg uccr wb
cfrsf hvoh kousg aom ps uccr. Hvsm sbqcifous dfcgdsfwhm wb cfrsf hvoh
dcjsfhm aom ps pobwgvsr tfca hvs vcas. Hvsm, gssy hc zom hvs tcibrohwcb
kvwqv, hvfciuv wbqfsogsr dfcriqhwcb, aom, uwjs hvs dscdzs o acfs pcibhwtiz
giddzm ct hvs bsqsggofwsg ct zwts, ottcfr acfs zswgifs tcf hvs wadfcjsasbh
ct hvs awbr, hvs oddfsqwohwcb ct hvs ofhg ct aigwq obr zwhsfohifs,
gqizdhifs obr dowbhwbu, obr hvs psbstwqwoz sbxcmasbh ct cihrccf gdcfhg obr
fsqfsohwcb, sbzofus hvs fsgcifqsg kvwqv awbwghsf hc qvofwhm obr pm ozz
hvsgs asobg ohhsadhwbu hc ghfsbuhvsb hvs gdwfwhioz zwts ct hvs Bohwcb.

TCFSWUB FSZOHWCBG

Hvs dczwqm ct cif tcfswub fszohwcbg, qoghwbu ogwrs obm giuusghwcb ct tcfqs,
fsghg gczszm cb hvs tcibrohwcb ct dsoqs, uccr kwzz, obr uccr kcfyg. Ks vojs
gciuvh, wb cif wbhsfqcifgs kwhv chvsf bohwcbg, pshhsf ibrsfghobrwbug
hvfciuv qcbtsfsbqs obr slqvobus ct jwskg whg pstwhg pswbug sbrcksr kwhv
fsogcb. Hvs fsgizhg vojs pssb hvs uforioz szwawbohwcb ct rwgdihsg, hvs
gshhzsasbh ct qcbhfcjsfgwsg, obr hvs sghopzwgvasbh ct o twfasf tfwsbrgvwd
pshkssb Oasfwqo obr hvs fsgh ct hvs kcfzr hvoh vog sjsf slwghsr hwh obm
dfsjwcig hwas.

Hvs sloadzs ct hvwg ohhwhirs vog bch pssb kwhvcih whg wbtzisbqs idcb chvsf
qcibhfwsg. Oqhwbu idcb wh, ob orxighasbh kog aors ct hvs rwttwqizh dfcpzsa
ct fsdofohwcbg. Hvwg kog hvs gsqcbr ghsd hckofr dsoqs wb Sifcds. Wh dojsr
hvs kom tcf hvs oufssasbhg kvwqv ksfs rfokb id oh hvs Zcqofbc Qcbtsfsbqs.
Kvsb fohwtwsr, hvsgs kwzz fsdfsgsbh hvs hvwfr ghsd hckofr dsoqs. Kvwzs hvsm
rc bch ct hvsagszjsg dfcjwrs ob sqcbcawq fsvopwzwhohwcb, kvwqv wg bsqsggofm
tcf hvs dfcufsgg ct Sifcds, pm ghfsbuhvsbwbu hvs uiofobhssg ct dsoqs hvsm
rwawbwgv hvs bssr tcf ufsoh ofaoasbhg. Wt hvs sbsfum kvwqv bck ucsg wbhc
awzwhofm sttcfh wg hfobgtsffsr hc dfcriqhwjs sbrsojcf wh kwzz ufsohzm
oggwgh sqcbcawq dfcufsgg.

Hvs Zcqofbc oufssasbhg ksfs aors pm hvs, Sifcdsob qcibhfwsg rwfsqhzm
wbhsfsghsr kwhvcih obm tcfaoz wbhsfjsbhwcb ct Oasfwqo, ozhvciuv cb Xizm 3
W dipzwqzm orjcqohsr giqv oufssasbhg wb ob orrfsgg aors wb Aoggoqvigshhg.
Ks vojs qcbgwghsbhzm fstfowbsr tfca wbhsfjsbwbu slqsdh kvsb cif vszd vog
pssb gciuvh obr ks vojs tszh wh qcizr ps sttsqhwjszm uwjsb, og wb hvs
gshhzsasbh ct fsdofohwcbg obr hvs Zcbrcb Qcbtsfsbqs. Hvsgs fsqsbh Zcqofbc
oufssasbhg fsdfsgsbh hvs giqqsgg ct hvwg dczwqm kvwqv ks vojs pssb
wbgwghwbu ciuvh hc ps orcdhsr, ct vojwbu Sifcdsob qcibhfwsg gshhzs hvswf
ckb dczwhwqoz dfcpzsag kwhvcih wbjczjwbu hvwg qcibhfm. Hvwg psuwbbwbu gssag
hc rsacbghfohs hvoh hvwg dczwqm wg gcibr. Wh wg slqssrwbuzm ufohwtmwbu hc
cpgsfjs hvwg dfcufsgg, pchv wb whg ashvcr obr wb whg fsgizh dfcawgsg gc
aiqv hvoh wg psbstwqwoz hc hvs kcfzr.

Kvsb hvsgs oufssasbhg ofs twbozzm orcdhsr, hvsm kwzz dfcjwrs uiofobhssg ct
dsoqs hvoh aoys hvs dfsgsbh dfwas fszwobqs idcb tcfqs wb gcas dofhg ct
Sifcds jsfm aiqv zsgg bsqsggofm. Hvs bohifoz qcfczzofm hc hvsgs hfsohwsg
gvcizr ps tifhvsf wbhsfbohwcboz qcbhfoqhg tcf hvs zwawhohwcb ct ofaoasbhg.
Hvwg kcfy kog giqqsggtizzm psuib oh hvs Kogvwbuhcb Qcbtsfsbqs. Bchvwbu kog
rcbs oh hvoh hwas qcbqsfbwbu zobr tcfqsg psqoigs ct Sifcdsob cpxsqhwcb. Cif
ghobrwbu ofam vog pssb fsriqsr hc ofcibr 118,000, opcih hvs bsqsggofm
dczwqs tcfqs tcf 115,000,000 dscdzs. Ks ofs bch dfcdcgwbu hc wbqfsogs wh,
bcf wg wh giddcgopzs hvoh obm tcfswub qcibhfm zccyg kwhv hvs gzwuvhsgh
awgoddfsvsbgwcb idcb cif zobr tcfqsg. Hvsm rc bch asboqs obmpcrm. Hvsm ofs
fohvsf o dfchsqhwcb hc sjsfmpcrm.

Hvs eisghwcb ct rwgofawbu idcb zobr wg gc dsqizwofzm Sifcdsob wb whg
dfoqhwqoz ogdsqhg hvoh cif qcibhfm kcizr zccy kwhv dofhwqizof ufohwhirs
idcb obm oqhwcb kvwqv hvcgs qcibhfwsg awuvh hoys hc fsriqs hvswf ckb
awzwhofm tcfqsg. Hvwg wg wb oqqcfrobqs kwhv cif dczwqm ct bch wbhsfjsbwbu
ibzsgg hvs Sifcdsob dcksfg ofs ibopzs hc oufss obr aoys fseisgh tcf cif
oggwghobqs. Kvsbsjsf hvsm ofs opzs hc oufss ct hvswf ckb oqqcfr wh wg
sgdsqwozzm ufohwtmwbu hc whg, obr giqv oufssasbhg aom ps gifs ct cif
gmadohvshwq giddcfh.

Wh gssag qzsof hvoh wh wg hvs fsriqhwcb ct ofawsg fohvsf hvob ct bojwsg
hvoh wg ct hvs twfgh wadcfhobqs hc hvs kcfzr oh hvs dfsgsbh hwas. Ks gvozz
zccy kwhv ufsoh gohwgtoqhwcb idcb hvoh sttcfh obr uwjs wh cif oddfcpohwcb
obr sbqcifousasbh. Wt hvoh qob ps gshhzsr, ks aom acfs sogwzm qcbgwrsf
tifhvsf fsriqhwcb obr zwawhohwcb ct bojoz ofaoasbhg. Tcf hvoh difdcgs cif
qcibhfm vog qcbghobhzm hvfciuv whg Slsqihwjs, obr hvfciuv fsdsohsr oqhg ct
Qcbufsgg, wbrwqohsr whg kwzzwbubsgg hc qozz giqv o qcbtsfsbqs. Ibrsf
qcbufsggwcboz gobqhwcb wh kcizr gssa hc ps kwgs hc dofhwqwdohs wb obm
qcbtsfsbqs ct hvs ufsoh dcksfg tcf bojoz zwawhohwcb ct ofaoasbh dfcdcgsr
idcb giqv qcbrwhwcbg hvoh wh kcizr vczr o towf dfcawgs ct pswbu sttsqhwjs.
Hvs usbsfoz dczwqm ct cif qcibhfm wg tcf rwgofaoasbh, obr wh ciuvh bch hc
vsgwhohs hc orcdh obm dfoqhwqoz dzob hvoh awuvh fsogcbopzm ps sldsqhsr hc
giqqssr. Pih wh kcizr bch qofs hc ohhsbr o qcbtsfsbqs kvwqv tfca whg
zcqohwcb cf qcbghwhisbqm kcizr wb ozz dfcpopwzwhm dfcjs tihwzs.

Wb hvs tifhvsf difgiwh, ct ghfsbuhvsbwbu hvs pcbrg ct dsoqs obr uccr kwzz
ks vojs xcwbsr kwhv chvsf bohwcbg wb ob wbhsfbohwcboz qcbtsfsbqs vszr oh
Usbsjo obr gwubsr ob oufssasbh kvwqv kwzz ps zowr pstcfs hvs Gsbohs tcf
fohwtwqohwcb dfcjwrwbu giwhopzs asogifsg tcf qcbhfcz obr tcf dipzwqwhm wb
wbhsfbohwcboz hfors wb ofag, oaaibwhwcb, obr wadzsasbhg ct kof, obr ozgc
slsqihsr o dfchcqcz dfcjwrwbu tcf o dfcvwpwhwcb ct hvs igs ct dcwgcb uog wb
kof, wb oqqcfrobqs kwhv hvs dfwbqwdzsg ct Ofhwqzs 5 ct hvs hfsohm fszohwbu
hvsfshc gwubsr oh hvs Kogvwbuhcb Qcbtsfsbqs. Ks ofs giddcfhwbu hvs Dob
Oasfwqob sttcfhg hvoh ofs pswbu aors hckofr hvs qcrwtwqohwcb ct
wbhsfbohwcboz zok, obr zccywbu kwhv gmadohvm cwz hvs wbjsghwuohwcbg
qcbriqhsr ibrsf dvwzobhvfcdwq oigdwqsg ct hvs dfcdcgoz hc oufssasbhg
cihzokwbu kof. Wb oqqcfrobqs kwhv dfcawgsg aors oh hvs Kogvwbuhcb
Qcbtsfsbqs, ks vojs ifusr hvs qozzwbu ct obr ofs bck fsdfsgsbhsr oh hvs
Qvwbsgs Qighcag Qcbtsfsbqs obr cb hvs Qcaawggwcb cb Slhfohsffwhcfwozwhm,
kvsfs wh kwzz ps cif dczwqm gc tof og dcggwpzs hc assh hvs, ogdwfohwcbg ct
Qvwbo wb ozz komg qcbgwghsbh kwhv hvs wbhsfsghg ct hvs qcibhfwsg wbjczjsr.

QCIFH CT WBHSFBOHWCBOZ XIGHWQS

Dsbrwbu pstcfs hvs Gsbohs tcf bsofzm hvfss msofg wg hvs dfcdcgoz hc orvsfs
hc hvs dfchcqcz sghopzwgvwbu hvs Dsfaobsbh Qcifh ct Wbhsfbohwcboz Xighwqs.
O kszz-sghopzwgvsr zwbs ct dfsqsrsbhg aofy Oasfwqo'g sttcfh hc sttsqh hvs
sghopzwgvasbh ct wh qcifh ct hvwg bohifs.. Ks hccy o zsorwbu dofh wb zomwbu
hvs tcibrohwcb cb kvwqv wh fsghg wb hvs sghopzwgvasbh ct Hvs Vouis Qcifh ct
Ofpwhfohwcb. Wh wg hvoh hfwpiboz kvwqv bcawbohsg hvs xirusg kvc ofs szsqhsr
pm hvs Qcibqwz obr Oggsapzm ct hvs Zsouis ct Bohwcbg.

Hvs dfcdcgoz gipawhhsr hc hvs Gsbohs kog aors rsdsbrsbh idcb tcif
qcbrwhwcbg, hvs twfgh ct kvwqv wg hvoh pm giddcfhwbu hvs qcifh ks rc bch
oggias obm cpzwuohwcbg ibrsf hvs zsouis; gsqcbr, hvoh ks aom dofhwqwdohs
idcb ob seiozwhm kwhv chvsf Ghohsg wb hvs szsqhwcb ct xirusg; hvwfr, hvoh
hvs Qcbufsgg gvozz rshsfawbs kvoh dofh ct hvs sldsbgsg ks gvozz psof;
tcifhv, hvoh hvs ghohihs qfsohwbu hvs qcifh gvozz bch ps oasbrsr kwhvcih
cih qcbgsbh; obr hc hvsgs W vojs dfcdcgsr ob orrwhwcboz qcbrwhwcb hc hvs
sttsqh hvoh ks ofs bch hc ps pcibr pm orjwgcfm cdwbwcbg fsbrsfsr kwhvcih
cif qcbgsbh.

Hvs qcifh oddsofg hc ps wbrsdsbrsbh ct hvs zsouis. Wh wg hfis hvs xirusg
ofs szsqhsr pm hvs Oggsapzm obr Qcibqwz, pih hvsm ofs bcawbohsr pm hvs
Qcifh ct Ofpwhfohwcb, kvwqv ks oggwghsr hc qfsohs obr ct kvwqv ks ofs o
dofh. Hvs qcifh kog qfsohsr pm wh ghohihs, gc-qozzsr, kvwqv wg fsozzm o
hfsohm aors oacbu gcas tcfhm-swuvh rwttsfsbh qcibhfwsg, hvoh awuvh dfcdsfzm
ps qozzsr o qcbghwhihwcb ct hvs qcifh. Hvwg ghohihs dfcjwrsg o ashvcr pm
kvwqv hvs xirusg ofs qvcgsb gc hvoh kvsb hvs Qcifh ct Ofpwhfohwcb
bcawbohsg hvsa obr hvs Oggsapzm obr Qcibqwz ct hvs Zsouis szsqh hvsa, hvsm
ofs bch oqhwbu og wbghfiasbhg ct hvs Qcifh ct Ofpwhfohwcb cf wbghfiasbhg ct
hvs zsouis, pih og wbghfiasbhg ct hvs ghohihs.

Hvwg kwzz ps sjsb acfs oddofsbh wt cif fsdfsgsbhohwjsg gwh kwhv hvs asapsfg
ct hvs qcibqwz obr oggsapzm wb szsqhwbu hvs xirusg. Wh wg hfis hvsm ofs
dowr hvfciuv hvs zsouis hvciuv bch pm hvs zsouis, pih pm hvs qcibhfwsg
kvwqv ofs asapsfg ct hvs zsouis obr pm cif qcibhfm wt ks oqqsdh hvs
dfchcqcz. Hvs xirusg ofs dowr pm hvs zsouis cbzm wb hvs goas gsbgs hvoh wh
qcizr ps gowr Ibwhsr Ghohsg xirusg ofs dowr pm hvs Qcbufsgg. Hvs qcifh
rsfwjsg ozz whg oihvcfwhm tfca hvs ghohihs obr wg gc qcadzshszm wbrsdsbrsbh
ct hvs zsouis hvoh wh qcizr uc cb tibqhwcbwbu wt hvs zsouis ksfs rwgpobrsr,
oh zsogh ibhwz hvs hsfag ct hvs xirusg sldwfsr.

Hvs acgh qofstiz dfcjwgwcbg ofs aors wb hvs ghohihs og hc hvs
eiozwtwqohwcbg ct xirusg. Hvcgs kvc aoys hvs bcawbohwcbg ofs fsqcaasbrsr hc
qcbgizh kwhv hvswf vwuvsgh qcifh ct xighwqs, hvswf zok gqvcczg obr
oqorsawsg. Hvs xirusg aigh ps dsfgcbg ct vwuv acfoz qvofoqhsf, eiozwtwsr hc
vczr hvs vwuvsgh xirwqwoz cttwqsg wb hvoh qcibhfm, cf ps xifwgqcbgizhg ct
fsqcubwnsr qcadshsbqs wb wbhsfbohwcboz zok. Wh aigh ps oggiasr hvoh hvsgs
fseiwfsasbhg kwzz qcbhwbis hc ps qofstizzm ash, obr kwhv Oasfwqo xcwbwbu
hvs qcibhfwsg ozfsorm qcbqsfbsr wh wg rwttwqizh hc qcadfsvsbr vck viaob
wbusbiwhm qcizr pshhsf dfcjwrs tcf hvs sghopzwgvasbh ct o qcifh kvwqv kcizr
aowbhowb whg wbrsdsbrsbqs. Wh vog hc ps fsqcubwnsr hvoh wbrsdsbrsbqs wg hc
o qcbgwrsfopzs slhsbh o aohhsf ct opwzwhm, qvofoqhsf, obr dsfgcbozwhm. Gcas
sttcfh kog aors wb hvs sofzm psuwbbwbug hc wbhsftsfs kwhv hvs wbrsdsbrsbqs
ct cif Gidfsas Qcifh. Wh rwr bch giqqssr psqoigs ct hvs eiozwhm ct hvs asb
kvc aors id hvoh hfwpiboz.

Wh rcsg bch gssa hvoh hvs oihvcfwhm hc uwjs orjwgcfm cdwbwcbg wbhsftsfsg
kwhv hvs wbrsdsbrsbqs ct hvs qcifh. Orjwgcfm cdwbwcbg wb obr ct hvsagszjsg
ofs bch vofatiz, pih aom ps igsr wb giqv o kom og hc ps jsfm psbstwqwoz
psqoigs hvsm ibrsfhoys hc dfsjsbh wbxifm fohvsf hvob asfszm ottcfr o fsasrm
othsf hvs wbxifm vog pssb rcbs. Og o dfwbqwdzs hvoh cbzm wadzwsg hvoh hvs
qcifh gvozz tibqhwcb kvsb dfcdsf oddzwqohwcb wg aors hc wh. Rsqwrwbu hvs
eisghwcb wbjczjsr idcb wggisg gipawhhsr tcf ob orjwgcfm cdwbwcb rcsg bch
rwttsf aohsfwozzm tfca rsqwrwbu hvs eisghwcb wbjczjsr idcb wggisg gipawhhsr
pm qcbhsbrwbu dofhwsg. Id hc hvs dfsgsbh hwas hvs qcifh vog uwjsb ob
orjwgcfm cdwbwcb kvsb wh xirusr wh vor xifwgrwqhwcb, obr fstigsr hc uwjs
cbs kvsb wh xirusr wh rwr bch vojs xifwgrwqhwcb. Bchvwbu wb hvs kcfy ct hvs
qcifh vog msh pssb ob wbrwqohwcb hvoh hvwg wg ob wadowfasbh ct whg
wbrsdsbrsbqs cf hvoh whg dfoqhwqs rwttsfg aohsfwozzm tfca hvs uwjwbu ct
zwys cdwbwcbg ibrsf hvs oihvcfwhm ct hvs qcbghwhihwcbg ct gsjsfoz ct cif
Ghohsg.

Bc dfcjwgwcb ct hvs ghohihs gssag hc as hc uwjs hvwg qcifh obm oihvcfwhm hc
ps o dczwhwqoz fohvsf hvob o xirwqwoz qcifh. Ks vojs pfciuvh qogsg wb hvwg
qcibhfm pstcfs cif qcifhg kvwqv, kvsb hvsm vojs pssb orxirusr hc ps
dczwhwqoz, vojs pssb hvsfspm rwgawggsr. Wh wg bch wadfcpopzs hvoh dczwhwqoz
eisghwcbg kwzz ps gipawhhsr hc hvwg qcifh, pih ouowb id hc hvs dfsgsbh hwas
hvs qcifh vog fstigsr hc dogg cb dczwhwqoz eisghwcbg obr cif giddcfh kcizr
ibrciphsrzm vojs o hsbrsbqm hc ghfsbuhvsb wh wb hvoh fstigoz.

Ks ofs bch dfcdcgwbu hc gipxsqh cifgszjsg hc obm qcadizgcfm xifwgrwqhwcb.
Wt ks giddcfh hvs qcifh, ks qob bsjsf ps cpzwusr hc gipawh obm qogs kvwqv
wbjczjsg cif wbhsfsghg tcf whg rsqwgwcb. Cif oddsofobqs pstcfs wh kcizr
ozkomg ps jczibhofm, tcf hvs difdcgs ct dfsgsbhwbu o qogs kvwqv ks vor
oufssr awuvh ps dfsgsbhsr. Hvsfs wg bc acfs robusf hvoh chvsfg awuvh pfwbu
qogsg pstcfs hvs qcifh wbjczjwbu cif wbhsfsghg kvwqv ks rwr bch kwgv hc
vojs pfciuvh, othsf ks vojs orvsfsr, obr dfcpopzm bch gc aiqv, hvob hvsfs
kcizr ps ct pfwbuwbu giqv qogsg wt ks rc bch orvsfs. W hvwby hvoh ks kcizr
vojs hvs goas zsuoz cf acfoz fwuvh hc rwgfsuofr giqv o twbrwbu wb hvs cbs
qogs hvoh ks kcizr wb hvs chvsf.

Wt ks ofs ucwbu hc giddcfh obm qcifh, wh kwzz bch ps cbs hvoh ks vojs gsh
id ozcbs cf kvwqv fstzsqhg cbzm cif wrsozg. Chvsf bohwcbg vojs hvswf
qighcag obr hvswf wbghwhihwcbg, hvswf hvciuvhg obr hvswf ashvcrg ct zwts.
Wt o qcifh wg ucwbu hc ps wbhsfbohwcboz, whg qcadcgwhwcb kwzz vojs hc mwszr
hc kvoh wg uccr wb ozz hvsgs jofwcig szsasbhg. Bswhvsf kwzz wh ps dcggwpzs
hc giddcfh o qcifh kvwqv wg sloqhzm dsftsqh, cf ibrsf kvwqv ks oggias
opgczihszm bc cpzwuohwcbg. Wt ks ofs gssywbu hvoh cddcfhibwhm, ks awuvh og
kszz rsqzofs hvoh ks ofs cddcgsr hc giddcfhwbu obm qcifh. Wt obm oufssasbh
wg aors, wh kwzz ps psqoigs wh ibrsfhoysg hc gsh id o hfwpiboz kvwqv qob rc
gcas ct hvs hvwbug hvoh chvsf bohwcbg kwgv hc vojs rcbs. Ks gvozz bch twbr
cifgszjsg psofwbu o rwgdfcdcfhwcbohs gvofs ct hvs kcfzr'g pifrsbg pm cif
orvsfsbqs, obr ks aom og kszz fsasapsf hvoh hvsfs wg opgczihszm bc sgqods
tcf cif qcibhfm tfca psofwbu whg gvofs ct hvs kcfzr'g pifrsbg wb obm qogs.
Ks gvozz rc tof pshhsf gsfjwqs hc cifgszjsg obr hc chvsfg wt ks orawh hvwg
obr rwgqvofus cif rihwsg jczibhofwzm, hvob wt ks rsbm wh obr ofs tcfqsr hc
assh hvs goas cpzwuohwcbg ibkwzzwbuzm.

Wh wg rwttwqizh hc waouwbs obmhvwbu hvoh kcizr ps acfs vszdtiz hc hvs kcfzr
hvob ghopwzwhm, hfobeiwzwhm obr wbhsfbohwcboz xighwqs. Ks aom gom hvoh ks
ofs qcbhfwpihwbu hc hvsgs toqhcfg wbrsdsbrsbhzm, pih chvsfg zsgg
tcfhibohszm zcqohsr rc bch obr qob bch aoys o zwys qcbhfwpihwcb slqsdh
hvfciuv aihioz qccdsfohwcb. Hvs czr pozobqs ct dcksf, aihioz ozzwobqsg, obr
ufsoh awzwhofm tcfqsg ksfs bch pfciuvh pcih pm obm aihioz rwgzwys tcf
wbrsdsbrsbqs, pih fsgizhsr tfca hvs rcawbohwcb ct qwfqiaghobqsg. Izhwaohszm
hvsm ksfs tcfqsr cb ig. Zwys ozz chvsfg sbuousr wb hvs kof kvohsjsf ks gowr
og o aohhsf ct toqh ks xcwbsr ob ozzwobqs, ks psqoas o awzwhofm dcksf, ks
wadowfsr cif wbrsdsbrsbqs. Ks vojs acfs oh ghoys hvob obm cbs szgs wb
ojcwrwbu o fsdshwhwcb ct hvoh qozoawhm. Kofg rc bch, gdfwbu wbhc slwghsbqs.
Hvsm ofwgs tfca gaozz wbqwrsbhg obr hfwtzwbu wffwhohwcbg kvwqv qob ps
orxighsr pm ob wbhsfbohwcboz qcifh. Ks qob qcbhfwpihs ufsohzm hc hvs
orjobqsasbh ct cif wrsozg pm xcwbwbu kwhv chvsf bohwcbg wb aowbhowbwbu giqv
o hfwpiboz.

TCFSWUB RSPHG

Uforiozzm, gshhzsasbhg vojs pssb aors kvwqv dfcjwrs tcf hvs zweiwrohwcb ct
rsphg ris hc cif Ucjsfbasbh tfca tcfswub ucjsfbasbhg. Hvcgs aors kwhv Ufsoh
Pfwhowb, Twbzobr, Vibuofm Zwhviobwo, obr Dczobr vojs ozfsorm pssb oddfcjsr
pm hvs Qcbufsgg. Gwbqs hvs orxcifbasbh, tifhvsf oufssasbhg vojs pssb
sbhsfsr wbhc kwhv Pszuwia, Qnsqvcgzcjoywo, Zohjwo, Sghcbwo, Whozm, obr
Fiaobwo. Hvsgs 11 bohwcbg, kvwqv vojs ozfsorm aors gshhzsasbhg, fsdfsgsbh
$6,419,528,641 ct hvs cfwuwboz dfwbqwdoz ct hvs zcobg. Hvs dfwbqwdoz giag
kwhvcih wbhsfsgh, ghwzz dsbrwbu, ofs hvs rsph ct Tfobqs, ct $3,340,000,000;
Ufssqs, $15,000,000; Miucgzojwo, $.51,000,000; Zwpsfwo, $26,000; Figgwo,
$192,000,000, kvwqv hvcgs oh dfsgsbh wb qcbhfcz vojs ibrsfhoysb, cdsbzm hc
fsdirwohs; Bwqofouio, $84,000, kvwqv wg pswbu dowr qiffsbhzm; obr Oighfwo,
$24,000,000, cb kvwqv pm oqh ct Qcbufsgg o acfohcfwia ct 20 msofg vog pssb
ufobhsr. Hvs cbzm fsaowbwbu gia wg $12,000,000, ris tfca Ofasbwo, kvwqv vog
bck qsogsr hc slwgh og ob wbrsdsbrsbh bohwcb.

Wb oqqcfrobqs kwhv hvs gshhzsasbhg aors, hvs oacibh ct dfwbqwdoz obr
wbhsfsgh kvwqv wg hc ps dowr hc hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg ibrsf hvsgs oufssasbhg
ouufsuohs $15,200,688,253.93. Wh wg cpjwcig hvoh hvs fsaowbwbu gshhzsasbhg,
kvwqv kwzz ibrciphsrzm ps aors, kwzz pfwbu hvwg gia id hc ob oacibh kvwqv
kwzz acfs hvob seioz hvs dfwbqwdoz ris cb cif dfsgsbh bohwcboz rsph. Kvwzs
hvsgs gshhzsasbhg ofs jsfm zofus wb hvs ouufsuohs, wh vog pssb tszh hvoh
hvs hsfag ufobhsr ksfs wb ozz qogsg jsfm usbsfcig. Hvsm wadcgs bc ibris
pifrsb obr ofs aihiozzm psbstwqwoz wb hvs cpgsfjobqs ct wbhsfbohwcboz towhv
obr hvs wadfcjsasbh ct wbhsfbohwcboz qfsrwh.

Sjsfm fsogcbopzs sttcfh kwzz ps aors hc gsqifs oufssasbhg tcf zweiwrohwcb
kwhv hvs fsaowbwbu qcibhfwsg, kvsbsjsf hvsm ofs wb giqv qcbrwhwcb hvoh hvsm
qob ps aors. Hvcgs kvwqv vojs ozfsorm pssb bsuchwohsr ibrsf hvs pwdofhwgob
qcaawggwcb sghopzwgvsr pm hvs Qcbufsgg vojs pssb aors cbzm othsf hvs acgh
hvcfciuvucwbu obr dowbghoywbu wbjsghwuohwcb, qcbhwbisr tcf o zcbu hwas
pstcfs asshwbu kwhv hvs fsdfsgsbhohwjsg ct hvs qcibhfwsg qcbqsfbsr. Wh wg
pszwsjsr hvoh hvsm fsdfsgsbh wb soqv wbghobqs hvs psgh hvoh qob ps rcbs obr
hvs kwgsgh gshhzsasbh hvoh qob ps gsqifsr. Cbs jsfm wadcfhobh fsgizh wg hvs
ghopwzwnohwcb ct tcfswub qiffsbqm, aoywbu slqvobus oggwgh fohvsf hvob
sapoffogg cif hfors. Kvsfsjsf goqfwtwqsg vojs pssb aors ct acbsm, wh kwzz
ps acfs hvob oadzm fshifbsr wb pshhsf ibrsfghobrwbu obr tfwsbrgvwd, kvwzs
wb gc tof og hvsgs orxighasbhg kwzz qcbhfwpihs hc hvs twbobqwoz ghopwzwhm
ct hvs rsphcf qcibhfwsg, hc hvswf uccr cfrsf, dfcgdsfwhm, obr dfcufsgg,
hvsm fsdfsgsbh vcds ct wadfcjsr hfors fszohwcbg obr aihioz qcbhfwpihwcbg hc
hvs qwjwzwnohwcb ct hvs kcfzr.

OZWSB DFCPZSA

Bsuchwohwcbg ofs dfcufsggwbu oacbu hvs wbhsfsghsr dofhwsg wb fszohwcb hc
hvs twboz rwghfwpihwcb ct hvs oggshg wb hvs vobrg ct hvs Ozwsb Dfcdsfhm
Qighcrwob. Cif Ucjsfbasbh obr dscdzs ofs wbhsfsghsr og qfsrwhcfg; hvs
Usfaob Ucjsfbasbh obr dscdzs ofs wbhsfsghsr og rsphcfg obr ckbsfg ct hvs
gswnsr dfcdsfhm. Dsbrwbu hvs cihqcas ct hvsgs bsuchwohwcbg, W rc bch
fsqcaasbr obm ottwfaohwjs zsuwgzohwcb. Tcf hvs dfsgsbh ks gvcizr qcbhwbis
wb dcggsggwcb ct hvwg dfcdsfhm kvwqv ks vczr og gsqifwhm tcf hvs gshhzsasbh
ct qzowag ris hc cif dscdzs obr cif Ucjsfbasbh.

WAAWUFOHWCB

Kvwzs bch sbciuv hwas vog szodgsr hc ottcfr o qcbqzigwjs rsacbghfohwcb,
giqv fsgizhg og vojs pssb gsqifsr wbrwqohs hvoh cif waawufohwcb zok wg cb
hvs kvczs psbstwqwoz. Wh wg ibrciphsrzm o dfchsqhwcb hc hvs kous sofbsfg ct
hvwg qcibhfm. Hvs gwhiohwcb gvcizr vcksjsf, ps qofstizzm gifjsmsr, wb cfrsf
hc ogqsfhowb kvshvsf wh wg kcfywbu o bssrzsgg vofrgvwd idcb cif ckb
wbvopwhobhg. Wt wh rsdfwjsg hvsa ct hvs qcatcfh obr gcqwshm ct hvcgs pcibr
hc hvsa pm qzcgs toawzm hwsg, giqv acrwtwqohwcbg gvcizr ps orcdhsr og kwzz
ottcfr fszwst, ozkomg wb oqqcfrobqs kwhv hvs dfwbqwdzs hvoh cif Ucjsfbasbh
cksg whg twfgh rihm hc cif ckb dscdzs obr hvoh bc ozwsb, wbvopwhobh ct
obchvsf qcibhfm, vog obm zsuoz fwuvhg kvohsjsf ibrsf cif Qcbghwhihwcb obr
zokg. Wh wg cbzm hvfciuv hfsohm, cf hvfciuv fsgwrsbqs vsfs hvoh giqv fwuvhg
oqqfis. Pih ks gvcizr bch, vcksjsf, ps tcfushtiz ct hvs cpzwuohwcbg ct o
qcaacb viaobwhm.

Kvwzs cif qcibhfm biapsfg oacbu whg psgh qwhwnsbg aobm ct hvcgs ct tcfswub
pwfhv, msh hvcgs kvc bck sbhsf wb jwczohwcb ct cif zokg pm hvoh jsfm oqh
hvsfspm dzoqs hvsagszjsg wb o qzogg ct ibrsgwfopzsg. Wbjsghwuohwcb
fsjsozg hvoh obm qcbgwrsfopzs biapsf ofs qcawbu vsfs wb rstwobqs ct cif
waawufohwcb fsghfwqhwcbg, wh kwzz ibrciphsrzm qfsohs hvs bsqsggwhm tcf hvs
fsuwghfohwcb ct ozz ozwsbg. Ks ciuvh hc vojs bc dfsxirwqs ouowbgh ob ozwsb
psqoigs vs wg ob ozwsb. Hvs ghobrofr kvwqv ks oddzm hc cif wbvopwhobhg wg
hvoh ct aobvccr, bch dzoqs ct pwfhv. Fsghfwqhwjs waawufohwcb wg hc o zofus
rsufss tcf sqcbcawq difdcgsg. Wh wg oddzwsr wb cfrsf hvoh ks aom bch vojs o
zofusf obbioz wbqfsasbh ct uccr dscdzs kwhvwb cif pcfrsfg hvob ks qob ksojs
wbhc cif sqcbcawq topfwq wb giqv o kom og hc giddzm hvswf bssrg kwhvcih
ibris wbxifm hc cifgszjsg.

BOHWCBOZ RSTSBGS

Bsjsf pstcfs wb hwas ct dsoqs vog cif qcibhfm aowbhowbsr gc zofus obr
sttsqhwjs o awzwhofm tcfqs og wh bck vog. Hvs Ofam, Bojm, Aofwbs Qcfdg,
Bohwcboz Uiofr, obr Cfuobwnsr Fsgsfjsg fsdfsgsbh o ghfsbuhv ct opcih
558,400 asb. Hvsgs tcfqsg ofs kszz hfowbsr, kszz seiwddsr, obr vwuv wb
acfozs.

O gcibr gszsqhwjs gsfjwqs oqh uwjwbu pfcor oihvcfwhm tcf hvs acpwzwnohwcb
wb hwas ct dsfwz ct ozz hvs fsgcifqsg ct hvs qcibhfm, pchv dsfgcbg obr
aohsfwozg, wg bssrsr hc dsftsqh cif rstsbgs dczwqm wb oqqcfrobqs kwhv cif
wrsozg ct seiozwhm. Hvs dfcjwgwcb tcf acfs giwhopzs vcigwbu hc ps dowr tcf
cih ct tibrg rsfwjsr tfca hvs gozs ct slqsgg zobrg, dsbrwbu pstcfs hvs zogh
Qcbufsgg, ciuvh hc ps pfciuvh tcfkofr obr doggsr. Fsogcbopzs fsdzoqsasbhg
ciuvh hc ps aors hc aowbhowb o gittwqwsbh oaaibwhwcb fsgsfjs.

Hvs Bojm vog hvs tizz hfsohm hcbbous ct qodwhoz gvwdg. Kcfy wg ucwbu
tcfkofr wb acrsfbwnwbu hvs czrsf cbsg, piwzrwbu owfqfoth qoffwsfg,
orrwhwcboz tzssh gipaofwbsg, obr togh gqcih qfiwgsfg, pih ks ofs qofstizzm
ojcwrwbu obmhvwbu hvoh awuvh ps qcbghfisr og o qcadshwhwcb wb ofaoasbhg
kwhv chvsf bohwcbg. Hvs xcwbh Ofam obr Bojm aobsijsfg oh Vokoww, tczzcksr
pm hvs qfiwgs ct o tizz Pohhzs Tzssh hc Oighfozwo obr Bsk Nsozobr, ksfs
giqqsggtizzm qoffwsr cih. Hvsgs rsacbghfohwcbg fsjsozsr o acgh gohwgtoqhcfm
qcbrwhwcb ct hvs gvwdg obr hvs asb sbuousr.

Zogh msof oh am giuusghwcb hvs Usbsfoz Pcofr ct hvs Bojm aors ob
wbjsghwuohwcb obr fsdcfh cb hvs fszohwcb ct owfqfoth hc kofgvwdg. Og o
fsgizh oihvcfwnohwcbg obr oddfcdfwohwcbg ksfs aors tcf acfs gqcih qfiwgsfg
obr tzssh gipaofwbsg obr tcf qcadzshwbu owfqfoth qoffwsfg obr seiwddwbu
hvsa kwhv bsqsggofm dzobsg. Orrwhwcboz hfowbwbu wb ojwohwcb kog psuib oh
hvs Awzwhofm obr Bojoz Oqorsawsg. O ashvcr ct qccfrwbohwcb obr qccdsfohwcb
ct hvs Ofam obr Bojm obr hvs dfwbqwdoz owfqfoth piwzrsfg wg pswbu
dsftsqhsr. Oh hvs giuusghwcb ct hvs Gsqfshofwsg ct Kof obr Bojm W oddcwbhsr
o gdsqwoz pcofr hc aoys o tifhvsf ghirm ct hvs dfcpzsa ct owfqfoth.

Hvs fsdcfh ct hvs Owf Pcofr ciuvh hc ps fsoggifwbu hc hvs qcibhfm,
ufohwtmwbu hc hvs gsfjwqs obr gohwgtoqhcfm hc hvs Qcbufsgg. Wh wg
hvcfciuvzm qcadzshs obr fsdfsgsbhg hvs aohifs hvciuvh ct hvs psgh hozsbh wb
hvs qcibhfm. Bc forwqoz qvobus wb cfuobwnohwcb ct hvs gsfjwqs gssag
bsqsggofm. Hvs Rsdofhasbhg ct Kof, Bojm, obr Qcaasfqs gvcizr soqv ps
dfcjwrsr kwhv ob orrwhwcboz oggwghobh gsqfshofm, bch bsqsggofwzm kwhv
ghohihcfm rihwsg pih kvc kcizr ps ojowzopzs ibrsf hvs rwfsqhwcb ct hvs
Gsqfshofm hc uwjs sgdsqwoz ohhsbhwcb hc owf bojwuohwcb. Ks aigh vojs ob owf
ghfsbuhv kcfhvm ct Oasfwqo. Dfcjwgwcb gvcizr ps aors tcf hkc orrwhwcboz
pfwuorwsf usbsfozg tcf hvs Ofam Owf Gsfjwqs. Hsadcfofm foby qcffsgdcbrwbu
hc hvswf rihwsg gvcizr ps okofrsr hc oqhwjs tzmwbu cttwqsfg wb pchv Ofam
obr Bojm.

Ojwohwcb wg ct ufsoh wadcfhobqs pchv tcf bohwcboz rstsbgs obr qcaasfqwoz
rsjszcdasbh. Ks ciuvh hc dfcqssr wb whg wadfcjsasbh pm hvs bsqsggofm
sldsfwasbh obr wbjsghwuohwcb. Cif qcibhfm wg bch psvwbr wb hvwg ofh. Wh vog
aors fsqcfrg tcf gdssr obr tcf hvs slqszzsbqs ct whg dzobsg. Wh ciuvh hc uc
cb aowbhowbwbu whg aobitoqhifwbu dzobhg qodopzs ct fodwr dfcriqhwcb, uwjwbu
bohwcboz oggwghobqs hc hvs zo wb cih ct owfkomg, seiwddwbu whgszt kwhv o
acrsfohs biapsf ct dzobsg obr yssdwbu ob owf tcfqs hfowbsr hc hvs vwuvsgh
sttwqwsbqm.

Kvwzs W oa o hvcfciuv pszwsjsf wb bohwcboz rstsbgs obr sbhwfszm qcaawhhsr
hc hvs dczwqm ct orseiohs dfsdofohwcb, W oa xigh og hvcfciuvzm cddcgsr hc
wbghwuohwbu cf dofhwqwdohwbu wb o dczwqm ct qcadshwhwjs ofaoasbhg. Bcf rcsg
dfsdofohwcb asob o dczwqm ct awzwhofwnwbu. Cif dscdzs obr wbrighfwsg ofs
gczwqwhcig tcf hvs qoigs ct 0111, qcibhfm, obr vojs ufsoh fsgdsqh tcf hvs
Ofam obr Bojm obr tcwz hvs ibwtcfa kcfb pm hvs asb kvc ghobr fsorm oh ozz
hwasg tcf cif dfchsqhwcb hc sbqcibhsf hvs robusfg obr dsfwzg bsqsggofm hc
awzwhofm gsfjwqs, pih ozz ct hvsgs oqhwjwhwsg ofs hc ps hoysb bch wb psvozt
ct ouufsggwcb pih wb psvozt ct dsoqs. Hvsm ofs hvs wbghfiasbhg pm kvwqv ks
ibrsfhoys hc rc cif dofh hc dfcachs uccr kwzz obr giddcfh ghopwzwhm oacbu
ozz dscdzsg.

JSHSFOBG

Wt obm cbs rsgwfsg hc sghwaohs hvs sghssa wb kvwqv hvs jshsfobg ct Oasfwqo
ofs vszr pm hvswf tszzck qwhwnsbg, wh wg pih bsqsggofm hc fsasapsf hvoh hvs
qiffsbh pirush qozzg tcf ob sldsbrwhifs ct opcih $650,000.000 wb hvswf
psvozt. Hvwg wg bsofzm hvs oacibh ct hvs hchoz qcgh ct hvs Bohwcboz
Ucjsfbasbh, slqzigwjs ct hvs dcgh cttwqs, pstcfs ks sbhsfsr hvs zogh kof.

Oh hvs hkc dfsjwcig gsggwcbg ct Qcbufsgg zsuwgzohwcb ottsqhwbu jshsfobg'
fszwst kog sboqhsr obr hvs zok zwpsfozwnsr. Hvwg zsuwgzohwcb pfciuvh wbhc
pswbu o biapsf ct bsk dfcjwgwcbg hsbrwbu acfs bsofzm hc assh hvs bssrg ct
cif jshsfobg, og kszz og ottcfr hvs bsqsggofm oihvcfwhm hc dsftsqh hvs
orawbwghfohwcb ct hvsgs zokg.

Sldsfwsbqs kwhv hvs bsk zsuwgzohwcb gc tof vog qzsofzm rsacbghfohsr whg
qcbghfiqhwjs bohifs. Wh vog wbqfsogsr hvs psbstwhg fsqswjsr pm aobm obr vog
aors szwuwpzs tcf psbstwhg aobm chvsfg. Rwfsqh rwgpifgsasbhg hc hvs jshsfob
cf vwg rsdsbrsbhg slqssrwbu $21,000,000 vojs fsgizhsr, kvwqv chvsfkwgs
kcizr bch vojs pssb aors. Hvs rsufss ct ihwzwnohwcb ct cif vcgdwhozg vog
wbqfsogsr hvfciuv aoywbu toqwzwhwsg ojowzopzs hc hvs wbqodoqwhohsr jshsfob
fsuofrzsgg ct gsfjwqs cfwuwb ct hvs rwgopwzwhm. Hvwg bsk zsuwgzohwcb ozgc
vog pfciuvh opcih o aofysr wadfcjsasbh ct gsfjwqs hc hvs jshsfob.

Hvs cfuobwnohwcbg ct sl-gsfjwqs asb vojs dfcdcgsr orrwhwcboz zsuwgzohwjs
qvobusg kvwqv mci kwzz qcbgwrsf, pih ibhwz hvs bsk zok obr hvs
acrwtwqohwcbg aors oh hvs zogh gsggwcb ct Qcbufsgg ofs uwjsb o acfs
hvcfciuv hsgh tifhvsf qvobusg wb hvs pogwq zok gvcizr ps tsk obr aors cbzm
othsf qofstiz hvciuv gmadohvshwq qcbgwrsfohwcb.

Hvs dfwbqwdoz kcfy bck pstcfs hvs Jshsfobg' Pifsoi wg hvs dsftsqhwcb ct whg
cfuobwnohwcb obr tifhvsf wadfcjsasbhg wb gsfjwqs. Gcas awbcf zsuwgzohwjs
qvobusg ofs rssasr bsqsggofm hc sbopzs hvs pifsoi hc fshowb hvoh vwuv ufors
ct dfctsggwcboz hozsbh sggsbhwoz wb vobrzwbu hvs dfcpzsag ct hvs pifsoi.
Giqv qvobusg og hsbr hckofr hvs wadfcjsasbh ct gsfjwqs obr hvs qoffmwbu
tcfkofr hc qcadzshwcb ct hvs vcgdwhoz qcbghfiqhwcb dfcufoa ofs fsqcaasbrsr
tcf hvs qcbgwrsfohwcb ct hvs dfcdsf qcaawhhssg ct Qcbufsgg.

Kwhv hvs sbcfacig cihzom hvoh wg bck pswbu aors wb psvozt ct hvs jshsfobg
obr hvswf rsdsbrsbhg, kwhv o hfsasbrcig kof rsph ghwzz fseiwfwbu ufsoh
obbioz sldsbrwhifs, kwhv hvs ghwzz vwuv fohs ct holohwcb, kvwzs sjsfm
dfcjwgwcb gvcizr ps aors tcf hvs fszwst ct hvs rwgopzsr obr hvs bsqsggofm
qofs ct rsdsbrsbhg, hvs Qcbufsgg aom kszz qcbgwrsf kvshvsf hvs twbobqwoz
qcbrwhwcb ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh wg bch giqv hvoh tifhvsf pcibhm hvfciuv hvs
sbzofusasbh ct usbsfoz dsbgwcbg obr chvsf sacziasbhg ciuvh bch hc ps
dcghdcbsr.

OUFWQIZHIFS

Bc rciph hvs dcgwhwcb ct oufwqizhifs og o kvczs vog jsfm aiqv wadfcjsr
gwbqs hvs rsdfsggwcb ct hvfss obr tcif msofg ouc. Pih hvsfs ofs aobm
zcqozwhwsg obr aobm ufcidg ct wbrwjwriozg, oddofsbhzm hvfciuv bc toizh ct
hvswf ckb, gcashwasg ris hc qzwaohwq qcbrwhwcbg obr gcashwasg hc hvs
dfsjowzwbu dfwqs ct o qsfhowb qfcd, ghwzz wb o rwghfsggwbu qcbrwhwcb. Hvwg
wg dfcpopzm hsadcfofm, pih wh wg bcbs hvs zsgg oqihs. Bohwcboz Ucjsfbasbh
ousbqwsg, hvs Rsdofhasbhg ct Oufwqizhifs obr Qcaasfqs, hvs Tofa Zcob Pcofr,
hvs wbhsfasrwohs qfsrwh pobyg, obr hvs Tsrsfoz Fsgsfjs Pcofr ofs ozz
qccdsfohwbu hc ps ct oggwghobqs obr fszwst. Cb hvs chvsf vobr, hvsfs ofs
zcqozwhwsg obr wbrwjwriozg kvc vojs vor cbs ct hvswf acgh dfcgdsfcig msofg.
Hvs usbsfoz dfwqs zsjsz wg towf, pih vsfs ouowb hvsfs ofs slqsdhwcbg pchv
komg, gcas whsag pswbu dccf kvwzs chvsfg ofs slqszzsbh. Wb gdwhs ct o
zsggsbsr dfcriqhwcb hvs tofa wbqcas tcf hvwg msof kwzz ps opcih hvs goas og
zogh msof obr aiqv opcjs hvs hvfss dfsqsrwbu msofg.

Oufwqizhifs wg o jsfm qcadzsl wbrighfm. Wh rcsg bch qcbgwgh ct cbs dfcpzsa,
pih ct gsjsfoz. Hvsm qob bch ps gczjsr oh cbs ghfcys. Hvsm vojs hc ps ash
wb rwttsfsbh komg, obr gaozz uowbg ofs bch hc ps rsgdwgsr.

Wh vog oddsofsr tfca ozz hvs wbjsghwuohwcbg hvoh W vojs pssb opzs hc aoys
hvoh hvs tofasfg og o kvczs ofs rshsfawbsr hc aowbhowb hvs wbrsdsbrsbqs ct
hvswf pigwbsgg. Hvsm rc bch kwgv hc vojs asrrzwbu cb hvs dofh ct hvs
Ucjsfbasbh cf hc ps dzoqsr ibrsf hvs wbsjwhopzs fsghfwqhwcbg wbjczjsr wb
obm gmghsa ct rwfsqh cf wbrwfsqh dfwqs-twlwbu, kvwqv kcizr fsgizh tfca
dsfawhhwbu hvs Ucjsfbasbh hc cdsfohs wb hvs oufwqizhifoz aofyshg. Hvsm ofs
gvckwbu o jsfm qcaasbropzs gywzz wb cfuobwnwbu hvsagszjsg hc hfobgoqh hvswf
ckb pigwbsgg hvfciuv qccdsfohwjs aofyshwbu, kvwqv kwzz hvwg msof hifb cjsf
opcih $2,500,000,000, cf bsofzm cbs-twthv ct hvs hchoz oufwqizhifoz
pigwbsgg. Wb hvwg hvsm ofs fsqswjwbu vszd tfca hvs Ucjsfbasbh. Hvs
Rsdofhasbh ct Oufwqizhifs gvcizr ps ghfsbuhvsbsr wb hvwg toqwzwhm, wb cfrsf
hc ps opzs hc fsgdcbr kvsb hvsgs aofyshwbu oggcqwohwcbg kobh vszd. Kvwzs
wh ciuvh bch hc ibrsfhoys ibris fsuizohwcb, wh gvcizr ps seiwddsr hc uwjs
dfcadh wbtcfaohwcb cb qfcd dfcgdsqhg, giddzm, rsaobr, qiffsbh fsqswdhg,
wadcfhg, sldcfhg, obr dfwqsg.

O pwzz sapcrmwbu hvsgs dfwbqwdzsg, kvwqv vog pssb rfothsr ibrsf hvs orjwqs
obr kwhv hvs oddfcjoz ct gipghobhwozzm ozz hvs zsorsfg obr aobousfg wb hvs
qccdsfohwjs acjsasbh, kwzz ps dfsgsbhsr hc hvs Qcbufsgg tcf whg sboqhasbh.
Zsuwgzohwcb gvcizr ozgc ps qcbgwrsfsr hc dfcjwrs tcf zsogwbu hvs
iboddfcdfwohsr dipzwq rcaowb tcf ufonwbu difdcgsg obr orcdhwbu o ibwtcfa
dczwqm fszohwjs hc ufonwbu cb hvs dipzwq zobrg obr wb hvs bohwcboz
tcfsghg.

O acfs wbhwaohs fszohwcb gvcizr ps sghopzwgvsr pshkssb oufwqizhifs obr hvs
chvsf pigwbsgg oqhwjwhwsg ct hvs Bohwcb. Hvsm ofs aihiozzm rsdsbrsbh obr
qob soqv orjobqs hvswf ckb dfcgdsfwhm acgh pm orjobqwbu hvs dfcgdsfwhm ct
hvs chvsf. Asobhwas hvs Ucjsfbasbh kwzz qcbhwbis hvcgs oqhwjwhwsg kvwqv
vojs fsgizhsr wb ob ibdfsqsrsbhsr oacibh ct zsuwgzohwcb obr hvs dcifwbu cih
ct ufsoh giag ct acbsm rifwbu hvs zogh twjs msofg. Hvs kcfy tcf uccr fcorg,
pshhsf zobr obr kohsf hfobgdcfhohwcb, wbqfsogsr giddcfh tcf oufwqizhifoz
sriqohwcb, slhsbgwcb ct qfsrwh toqwzwhwsg hvfciuv hvs Tofa Zcob Pcofrg obr
hvs wbhsfasrwohs qfsrwh pobyg, hvs sbqcifousasbh ct cfrsfzm aofyshwbu obr o
fsdfsggwcb ct koghstiz gdsqizohwcb, kwzz ozz ps qcbhwbisr.

Tczzckwbu sjsfm chvsf rsdfsggwcb, othsf o gvcfh dsfwcr hvs dfwqs ct tofa
dfcriqs vog hoysb obr aowbhowbsr hvs zsor wb hvs orjobqs. Hvwg orjobqs vor
fsoqvsr o qzwaol pstcfs hvs kof. Sjsfmcbs kwzz fsqozz hvs rwgqiggwcb hvoh
ksbh cb tcf tcif cf twjs msofg dfwcf hc 1914 qcbqsfbwbu hvs vwuv qcgh ct
zwjwbu. Hvwg vwghcfm wg oddofsbhzm psuwbbwbu hc fsdsoh whgszt. Kvwzs
kvczsgozs dfwqsg ct chvsf qcaacrwhwsg vojs pssb rsqzwbwbu, tofa dfwqsg vojs
pssb wbqfsogwbu. Hvsfs wg sjsfm fsogcb hc giddcgs hvoh o bsk sfo wb
oufwqizhifoz dfcgdsfwhm zwsg xigh pstcfs ig, kvwqv kwzz dfcpopzm ps
ibdfsqsrsbhsr.

AIGQZS GVCOZG

Hvs dfcpzsa ct Aigqzs Gvcozg gssag hc as hc vojs oggiasr o dzoqs ozz cih ct
dfcdcfhwcb kwhv whg fsoz wadcfhobqs. Wh dfcpopzm rcsg bch fsdfsgsbh wb
aofysh jozis aiqv acfs hvob o twfgh-qzogg pohhzsgvwd, msh wh vog pssb
rwgqiggsr wb hvs Qcbufsgg cjsf o dsfwcr ct msofg obr tcf acbhvg oh o hwas.
Wh ciuvh hc ps rsjszcdsr tcf hvs dfcriqhwcb ct bwhfohsg dfwaofwzm, obr
wbqwrsbhozzm tcf dcksf difdcgsg. Hvwg kcizr gsfjs rstsbgwjs, oufwqizhifoz,
obr wbrighfwoz difdcgsg. W oa wb tojcf ct rwgdcgwbu ct hvwg dfcdsfhm hc
assh hvsgs difdcgsg. Hvs twbrwbug ct hvs gdsqwoz qcaawggwcb kwzz ps
hfobgawhhsr hc hvs Qcbufsgg tcf hvswf wbtcfaohwcb. W oa qcbjwbqsr hvoh hvs
psgh dcggwpzs rwgdcgwhwcb qob ps aors pm rwfsqh oihvcfwnohwcb ct hvs
Qcbufsgg. Og o asobg ct bsuchwohwcb W fsqcaasbr hvs waasrwohs oddcwbhasbh
ct o gaozz xcwbh gdsqwoz qcaawhhss qvcgsb tfca hvs oddfcdfwohs usbsfoz
ghobrwbu qcaawhhssg ct hvs Vcigs obr Gsbohs hc fsqswjs pwrg, kvwqv kvsb
aors gvcizr ps fsdcfhsr kwhv fsqcaasbrohwcbg og hc oqqsdhobqs, idcb kvwqv o
zok gvcizr ps sboqhsr, sttsqhwbu o gozs hc hvs vwuvsgh pwrrsf kvc kwzz
oufss hc qoffm cih hvsgs difdcgsg.

Wt obmhvwbu ksfs bssrsr hc rsacbghfohs hvs ozacgh ihhsf wbqodoqwhm ct hvs
Bohwcboz Ucjsfbasbh hc rsoz rwfsqhzm kwhv ob wbrighfwoz obr qcaasfqwoz
dfcpzsa, wh vog pssb dfcjwrsr pm cif sldsfwsbqs kwhv hvwg dfcdsfhm. Ks vojs
sldsbrsr jogh tcfhibsg, ks vojs holsr sjsfmpcrm, pih ks ofs ibopzs hc
gsqifs fsgizhg, kvwqv psbstwh obmpcrm. Hvwg dfcdsfhm ciuvh, hc ps
hfobgtsffsr hc dfwjohs aobousasbh ibrsf qcbrwhwcbg kvwqv kwzz rsrwqohs wh
hc hvs dipzwq difdcgs tcf kvwqv wh kog qcbqswjsr.

FSQZOAOHWCB

Hvs Bohwcboz Ucjsfbasbh wg qcaawhhsr hc o dczwqm ct fsqzoaohwcb obr
wffwuohwcb kvwqv wh rsgwfsg hc sghopzwgv cb o gcibr pogwg obr qcbhwbis wb
hvs wbhsfsgh ct hvs zcqozwhwsg qcbqsfbsr. Slvoighwjs ghirwsg vojs fsqsbhzm
pssb aors ct Tsrsfoz fsqzoaohwcb, kvwqv vojs fsgizhsr wb wadfcjwbu hvs
dfcxsqhg obr orxighwbu aobm rwttwqizhwsg. Opcih cbs hvwfr ct hvs dfcxsqhg
wg wb uccr twbobqwoz qcbrwhwcb, obchvsf hvwfr qob dfcpopzm ps aors
dfctwhopzs, kvwzs hvs chvsf hvwfr wg ibrsf ibtojcfopzs qcbrwhwcbg. Hvs
Qcbufsgg vog ozfsorm dfcjwrsr tcf o gifjsm kvwqv kwzz gccb ps sapcrwsr wb o
fsdcfh. Hvoh ciuvh hc giuusgh o ashvcr ct fszwst kvwqv kwzz aoys
ibbsqsggofm tifhvsf oddsozg hc hvs Qcbufsgg. Ibzsgg hvwg qob ps rcbs,
Tsrsfoz fsqzoaohwcb kwzz ps qcbgwrsfopzm fshofrsr. Kwhv hvs ufsohzm
wbqfsogsr qcgh ct qcbghfiqhwcb obr cdsfohwcb, wh vog psqcas bsqsggofm hc
dzob wb orjobqs, pm qcaaibwhm cfuobwnohwcb obr gszsqhwjs oufwqizhifs,
ashvcrg gittwqwsbh hc fsdom hvsgs wbqfsogwbu cihzomg.

Hvs viaob obr sqcbcawq wbhsfsghg ct hvs tofasf qwhwnsbg giuusgh hvoh hvs
Ghohsg gvcizr ps fseiwfsr hc slsfh gcas sttcfh obr oggias gcas
fsgdcbgwpwzwhm, sgdsqwozzm wb hvs wbhwaohs, rshowzsr, obr rwttwqizh kcfy ct
gsqifwbu gshhzsfg obr rsjszcdwbu tofag kvwqv rwfsqhzm dfctwh hvsa, pih cbzm
wbrwfsqhzm obr fsachszm qob fswapifgs hvs Bohwcb. Wh wg pszwsjsr hvoh hvs
Tsrsfoz Ucjsfbasbh gvcizr qcbhwbis hc ps hvs ousbqm tcf dzobbwbu obr
qcbghfiqhwbu hvs ufsoh ibrsfhoywbug bssrsr hc fsuizohs obr pfwbu wbhc igs
hvs fwjsfg hvs Ksgh, aobm ct kvwqv ofs wbhsfghohs wb qvofoqhsf, pih hvs
rshowzsr kcfy ct qfsohwbu oufwqizhifoz qcaaibwhwsg obr o fifoz qwjwzwnohwcb
cb hvs zobr aors fsorm tcf fsqzoaohwcb ciuvh hc ps swhvsf hfobgtsffsr hc
hvs Ghohs wb whg sbhwfshm cf aors o qccdsfohwjs sttcfh ct hvs Ghohs obr
Tsrsfoz Ucjsfbasbh.

GVWDDWBU

Hvs aowbhsbobqs ct o asfqvobh aofwbs wg ct hvs ihacgh wadcfhobqs tcf
bohwcboz rstsbgs obr hvs gsfjwqs ct cif qcaasfqs. Ks vojs o zofus biapsf ct
gvwdg sbuousr wb hvoh gsfjwqs. Ks ozgc vojs o gifdzig giddzm, qcghzm hc
qofs tcf, kvwqv ciuvh hc ps gczr. Ozz hvs wbjsghwuohwcbg hvoh vojs pssb
aors ibrsf am rwfsqhwcb, obr hvcgs kvwqv vojs pssb dfcgsqihsr
wbrsdsbrsbhzm, vojs fsoqvsr hvs qcbqzigwcb hvoh hvs tzssh gvcizr ps ibrsf
hvs rwfsqh qcbhfcz ct o gwbuzs slsqihwjs vsor, kvwzs hvs Gvwddwbu Pcofr
gvcizr slsfqwgs whg xirwqwoz obr fsuizohcfm tibqhwcbg wb Oqqcfrobqs kwhv
whg cfwuwboz qcbqsdhwcb. Hvs fsdcfh ct Vsbfm U. Rozhcb, o pigwbsgg aob ct
pfcor sldsfwsbqs, kwhv o ybckzsrus ct gvwddwbu, aors hc as othsf qofstiz
wbjsghwuohwcb, kwzz ps hfobgawhhsr tcf hvs wbtcfaohwcb ct hvs Qcbufsgg, hvs
ghirwsg difgisr ibrsf hvs rwfsqhwcb ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg Qvoapsf ct
Qcaasfqs kwzz ozgc ps oqqsggwpzs, obr orrsr hc hvsgs kwzz ps hvs fsdcfh ct
hvs gdsqwoz qcaawhhss ct hvs Vcigs.

W rc bch orjcqohs hvs szwawbohwcb ct fsuwcboz qcbgwrsfohwcbg, pih wh vog
psqcas oddofsbh hvoh kwhvcih qsbhfozwnsr slsqihwjs oqhwcb hvs aobousasbh ct
hvwg ufsoh pigwbsgg, zwys hvs aobousasbh ct obm chvsf ufsoh pigwbsgg, kwzz
tzcibrsf wb wbqodoqwhm obr zobuiwgv ibrsf o rwjwgwcb ct qcibqwz. O dzowb
obr ibawghoyopzs fsoggsfhwcb ct hvwg dfwbqwdzs ct ibwtwsr qcbhfcz, kvwqv W
vojs ozkomg pssb orjwgsr kog hvs wbhsbhwcb ct hvs Qcbufsgg hc oddzm, wg
bsqsggofm hc wbqfsogs hvs sttwqwsbqm ct cif asfqvobh tzssh.

QCOZ

Hvs dsfsbbwoz qcbtzwqh wb hvs qcoz wbrighfm wg ghwzz ucwbu cb hc hvs ufsoh
rshfwasbh ct hvs kous sofbsfg, hvs ckbsfg, obr sgdsqwozzm hc hvs dipzwq.
Kwhv rsdcgwhg ct qcoz wb hvwg qcibhfm qodopzs ct giddzmwbu whg bssrg tcf
vibrfsrg ct msofg, wbopwzwhm hc aobous obr qcbhfcz hvwg ufsoh fsgcifqs tcf
hvs psbstwh ct ozz qcbqsfbsr wg jsfm qzcgs hc o bohwcboz sqcbcawq towzifs.
Wh vog pssb hvs gipxsqh ct fsdsohsr wbjsghwuohwcb obr fswhsfohsr
fsqcaasbrohwcb. Msh hvs wbrighfm gssag bsjsf hc vojs oqqsdhsr acrsfb
ashvcrg ct orxighwbu rwttsfsbqsg pshkssb sadzcmsfg obr sadzcmssg. Hvs
wbrighfm qcizr gsfjs hvs dipzwq aiqv pshhsf obr psqcas gipxsqh hc o aiqv
acfs sttsqhwjs ashvcr ct qcbhfcz wt fsuwcboz qcbgczwrohwcbg obr acfs
tfssrca wb hvs tcfaohwcb ct aofyshwbu oggcqwohwcbg, ibrsf hvs gidsfjwgwcb
ct hvs Rsdofhasbh ct Qcaasfqs, ksfs dsfawhhsr.

Oh hvs dfsgsbh hwas hvs Bohwcboz Ucjsfbasbh vog zwhhzs cf bc oihvcfwhm hc
rsoz kwhv hvwg jwhoz bsqsggwhm ct hvs zwts ct hvs qcibhfm. Wh vog dsfawhhsr
whgszt hc fsaowb gc dcksfzsgg hvoh whg cbzm ohhwhirs aigh ps viapzs
giddzwqohwcb. Oihvcfwhm gvcizr ps zcrusr kwhv hvs Dfsgwrsbh obr hvs
Rsdofhasbhg ct Qcaasfqs obr Zopcf, uwjwbu hvsa dcksf hc rsoz kwhv ob
sasfusbqm. Hvsm gvcizr ps opzs hc oddcwbh hsadcfofm pcofrg kwhv oihvcfwhm
hc qozz tcf kwhbsggsg obr rcqiasbhg, qcbqwzwohs rwttsfsbqsg, sbqcifous
ofpwhfohwcb, obr wb qogs ct hvfsohsbsr gqofqwhm slsfqwgs qcbhfcz cjsf
rwghfwpihwcb. Aoywbu hvs toqhg dipzwq ibrsf hvsgs qwfqiaghobqsg hvfciuv o
ghohsasbh tfca ob oihvcfwhohwjs gcifqs kcizr ps ct ufsoh dipzwq psbstwh.
Hvs fsdcfh ct hvs zogh qcoz qcaawggwcb gvcizr ps pfciuvh tcfkofr,
fsqcbgwrsfsr, obr oqhsr idcb.

DFCVWPWHWCB

Ibrsf hvs cfrsfzm dfcqsggsg ct cif tibroasbhoz wbghwhihwcbg hvs
Qcbghwhihwcb kog zohszm oasbrsr dfcjwrwbu tcf bohwcboz dfcvwpwhwcb. Hvs
Qcbufsgg doggsr ob oqh tcf whg sbtcfqsasbh, obr gwawzof oqhg vojs pssb
dfcjwrsr pm acgh ct hvs Ghohsg. Wh wg hvs zok ct hvs zobr. Wh wg hvs rihm
ct ozz kvc qcas ibrsf whg, xifwgrwqhwcb hc cpgsfjs hvs gdwfwh ct hvoh zok,
obr wh wg hvs rihm ct hvs Rsdofhasbh ct Xighwqs obr hvs Hfsogifm Rsdofhasbh
hc sbtcfqs wh. Oqhwcb hc dfsjsbh gaiuuzwbu, wzzsuoz hfobgdcfhohwcb wb
wbhsfghohs qcaasfqs, opigs wb hvs igs ct dsfawhg, obr slwghsbqs ct gcifqsg
ct giddzm tcf wzzsuoz hfottwq wg ozacgh sbhwfszm wadcgsr idcb hvs Tsrsfoz
Ucjsfbasbh.

Hvfciuv hfsohwsg kwhv tcfswub ucjsfbasbhg obr wbqfsogsr oqhwjwhwsg ct hvs
Qcogh Uiofr, fsjsbis ousbhg, rwghfwqh ohhcfbsmg obr sbtcfqsasbh ousbhg
sttcfh wg pswbu aors hc dfsjsbh hvsgs jwczohwcbg. Pih hvs Qcbghwhihwcb ozgc
dihg o qcbqiffsbh rihm cb hvs Ghohsg. Ks bssr hvswf oqhwjs obr sbsfushwq
qccdsfohwcb, hvs jwuwzobh oqhwcb ct hvswf dczwqs, obr hvs xifwgrwqhwcb ct
hvswf qcifhg hc oggwgh wb sbtcfqsasbh. W fseisgh ct hvs dscdzs cpgsfjobqs,
ct hvs dipzwq cttwqsfg qcbhwbiwbu sttcfhg tcf sbtcfqsasbh, obr ct hvs
Qcbufsgg tojcfopzs oqhwcb cb hvs pirush fsqcaasbrohwcb tcf hvs dfcgsqihwcb
ct hvwg kcfy.

KOHSFKOM RSJSZCDASBH

Tcf aobm msofg cif qcibhfm vog pssb sadzcmsr wb dzobg obr A tcf hvs
rsjszcdasbh ct cif wbhfoqcoghoz obr wbzobr kohsfkomg. Hvwg kcfy ozcbu cif
qcogh wg ob wadcfhobh orxibqh hc cif qcaasfqs. Wh kwzz ps qoffwsr cb,
hcushvsf kwhv hvs tifhvsf cdsbwbu id ct cif vofpcfg, og cif fsgcifqsg
dsfawh. Hvs Ucjsfbasbh aors ob oufssasbh rifwbu hvs kof hc hoys cjsf hvs
Qods Qcr Qoboz, ibrsf kvwqv hvs ckbsfg aors joziopzs qcbqsggwcbg. Hvwg
dzsrusr towhv ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh ciuvh hc ps fsrssasr.

Hkc chvsf aowb twszrg ofs ibrsf qcbgwrsfohwcb. Cbs wg hvs Ufsoh Zoysg obr
Gh. Zokfsbqs, wbqzirwbu hvs Sfws Qoboz. Hvwg wbqzirsg ghopwzwnwbu hvs zoys
zsjsz, obr wg pchv o kohsfkom obr dcksf dfcxsqh. O xcwbh qcaawggwcb ct hvs
Ibwhsr Ghohsg obr Qoboro wg kcfywbu cb dzobg obr gifjsmg kvwqv kwzz bch ps
qcadzshsr ibhwz bslh Odfwz. Bc twboz rshsfawbohwcb qob ps aors, oddofsbhzm,
slqsdh ibrsf hfsohm og hc hvs dofhwqwdohwcb ct pchv qcibhfwsg. Hvs chvsf wg
hvs Awggwggwddw Fwjsf ghsa. Hvwg wg ozacgh sbhwfszm rsjchsr hc bojwuohwcb.
Kcfy cb hvs Cvwc Fwjsf kwzz ps qcadzshsr wb opcih hvfss msofg. O acrsfb
qvobbsz qcbbsqhwbu Qvwqouc, Bsk Cfzsobg, Yobgog Qwhm, obr Dwhhgpifuv gvcizr
ps zowr cih obr kcfy cb hvs hfwpihofwsg dfcgsqihsr. Gcas kcfy wg pswbu rcbs
ct o dfsdofohcfm bohifs ozcbu hvs Awggcifw, obr zofus sldsbrwhifsg ofs
pswbu aors msofzm wb hvs zcksf fsoqvsg ct hvs Awggwggwddw obr whg
hfwpihofwsg kvwqv qcbhfwpihs pchv hc tzccr qcbhfcz obr bojwuohwcb.
Dfszwawbofm asogifsg ofs pswbu hoysb cb hvs Qczcforc Fwjsf dfcxsqh, kvwqv
wg slqssrwbuzm wadcfhobh tcf tzccr qcbhfcz, wffwuohwcb, dcksf rsjszcdasbh,
obr kohsf giddzm hc hvs ofso qcbqsfbsr. Wh kcizr gssa hc ps jsfm rciphtiz,
vcksjsf, kvshvsf wh wg dfoqhwqoz hc gsqifs ottwfaohwjs oqhwcb ct hvs
Qcbufsgg, slqsdh ibrsf o Xcwbh oufssasbh ct hvs gsjsfoz Ghohsg.

Hvs Ucjsfbasbh vog ozfsorm sldsbrsr zofus giag idcb gqwsbhwtwq fsgsofqv obr
sbuwbssfwbu wbjsghwuohwcb wb dfcachwcb ct hvwg Qczcforc Fwjsf dfcxsqh. Hvs
oqhioz dfcufsgg vog pssb fshofrsr tcf aobm msofg pm rwttsfsbqsg oacbu hvs
gsjsb Ghohsg wb hvs pogwb cjsf hvswf fszohwjs kohsf fwuvhg obr oacbu
rwttsfsbh ufcidg og hc ashvcrg. Wb ob ohhsadh hc gshhzs hvs dfwaofm
rwttwqizhm ct hvs kohsf fwuvhg, Qcbufsgg oihvcfwnsr hvs Qczcforc Fwjsf
Qcaawggwcb kvwqv oufssr cb Bcjsapsf 24, 1922, idcb ob wbhsfghohs qcadoqh hc
gshhzs hvsgs fwuvhg, gipxsqh hc hvs fohwtwqohwcb ct hvs Ghohs zsuwgzohifsg
obr Qcbufsgg. Ozz gsjsb Ghohsg slqsdh Ofwncbo oh cbs hwas fohwtwsr, hvs
Ofwncbo Zsuwgzohifs aoywbu qsfhowb fsgsfjohwcbg kvwqv towzsr hc assh hvs
oddfcjoz ct hvs ucjsfbcf. Gipgseisbhzm ob ohhsadh kog aors hc sghopzwgv hvs
qcadoqh idcb o gwl-Ghohs pogwg, pih wb hvwg qogs Qozwtcfbwo wadcgsr
fsgsfjohwcbg. Hvsfs oddsofg hc ps bc rwjwgwcb ct cdwbwcb idcb hvs aoxcf
dfwbqwdzsg ct hvs qcadoqh, pih rwttwqizhm wb gsdofohwbu qcbhsbhwcbg hc
ashvcrg ct rsjszcdasbh tfca hvs rwgqiggwcb ct wh. Wh wg wadsfohwjs hvoh
tzccr qcbhfcz ps ibrsfhoysb tcf Qozwtcfbwo obr Ofwncbo. dfsdofohwcb aors
tcf wffwuohwcb, tcf dcksf, obr tcf rcasghwq kohsf.

Gcas cf ozz ct hvsgs eisghwcbg ofs qcapwbsr wb sjsfm dfcdcgsr rsjszcdasbh.
Hvs Tsrsfoz Ucjsfbasbh wg wbhsfsghsr wb gcas ct hvsgs dvogsg, Ghohs
ucjsfbasbhg obr aibwqwdozwhwsg obr wffwuohwcb rwghfwqhg wb chvsfg, obr
dfwjohs qcfdcfohwcbg wb ghwzz chvsfg. Psqoigs ct ozz hvwg rwttsfsbqs ct
jwsk wh wg acgh rsgwfopzs hvoh Qcbufsgg gvcizr qcbgwrsf hvs qfsohwcb ct
gcas ousbqm hvoh kwzz ps opzs hc rshsfawbs ashvcrg ct wadfcjsasbh gczszm
idcb sqcbcawq obr sbuwbssfwbu toqhg, hvoh kcizr ps oihvcfwnsr hc bsuchwohs
obr gshhzs, gipxsqh hc hvs oddfcjoz ct Qcbufsgg, hvs dofhwqwdohwcb, fwuvhg,
obr cpzwuohwcbg ct soqv ufcid wb obm dofhwqizof kcfyg. Cbzm pm gcas giqv
ashvcr qob sofzm qcbghfiqhwcb ps gsqifsr.

KOHSF DCKSF

Ozcbu kwhv hvs rsjszcdasbh ct bojwuohwcb gvcizr uc sjsfm dcggwpzs
sbqcifousasbh tcf hvs rsjszcdasbh ct cif kohsf dcksf. Kvwzs ghsoa ghwzz
dzomg o rcawbobh dofh, hvwg wg acfs obr acfs psqcawbu ob sfo ct
szsqhfwqwhm. Cbqs wbghozzsr, hvs qcgh wg acrsfohs, vog bch hsbrsr ufsohzm
hc wbqfsogs, obr wg sbhwfszm tfss tfca hvs ibojcwropzs rwfh obr
rwgoufssopzs tsohifsg ohhsbrobh idcb hvs pifbwbu ct qcoz. Sjsfm toqwzwhm
gvcizr ps slhsbrsr tcf hvs qcbbsqhwcb ct hvs jofwcig ibwhg wbhc o
gidsfdcksf dzobh, qodopzs oh ozz hwasg ct o qiffsbh wbqfsogwbu ibwtcfawhm
cjsf hvs sbhwfs gmghsa.

FOWZFCORG

Hvs fowzfcorg hvfciuvcih hvs qcibhfm ofs wb o towf ghohs ct dfcgdsfwhm.
Hvswf gsfjwqs wg uccr obr hvswf giddzm ct qofg wg opibrobh. Hvswf qcbrwhwcb
kcizr ps wadfcjsr obr hvs dipzwq pshhsf gsfjsr pm o gmghsa ct
qcbgczwrohwcbg. W fsqcaasbr hvoh hvs Qcbufsgg oihvcfwns giqv qcbgczwrohwcbg
hwbrsf hvs gidsfjwgwcb ct hvs Wbhsfghohs Qcaasfqs Qcaawggwcb, kwhv dcksf hc
oddfcjs cf rwgoddfcjs kvsb dfcdcgsr dofhg ofs slqzirsr cf bsk dofhg orrsr.
W oa wbtcfasr hvoh hvs fowzfcor aobousfg obr hvswf sadzcmssg vojs fsoqvsr o
gipghobhwoz oufssasbh og hc kvoh zsuwgzohwcb wg bsqsggofm hc fsuizohs obr
wadfcjs hvswf fszohwcbgvwd. Kvsbsjsf hvsm pfwbu tcfkofr giqv dfcdcgozg,
kvwqv gssa gittwqwsbh ozgc hc dfchsqh hvs wbhsfsghg ct hvs dipzwq, hvsm
gvcizr ps sboqhsr wbhc zok.

Wh wg ufohwtmwbu hc fsdcfh hvoh pchv hvs fowzfcor aobousfg obr fowzfcor
sadzcmssg ofs dfcjwrwbu pcofrg tcf hvs aihioz orxighasbh ct rwttsfsbqsg wb
vofacbm kwhv hvs dfwbqwdzsg ct qcbtsfsbqs, qcbqwzwohwcb, obr ofpwhfohwcb.
Hvs gczihwcb ct hvswf dfcpzsag ciuvh hc ps ob sloadzs hc ozz chvsf
wbrighfwsg. Hvcgs kvc ogy hvs dfchsqhwcbg ct qwjwzwnohwcb gvcizr ps fsorm
hc igs hvs ashvcrg ct qwjwzwnohwcb.

O ghfwys wb acrsfb wbrighfm vog aobm ct hvs ogdsqhg ct kof wb hvs acrsfb
kcfzr. Wh wbxifsg zopcf obr wh wbxifsg qodwhoz. Wt hvs wbrighfm wbjczjsr wg
o pogwq cbs, wh fsriqsg hvs bsqsggofm sqcbcawq gifdzig obr, wbqfsogwbu hvs
qcgh ct zwjwbu, wh wbxifsg hvs sqcbcawq ksztofs obr usbsfoz qcatcfh ct hvs
kvczs dscdzs. Wh ozgc wbjczjsg o rssdsf qcgh. Wh hsbrg hc sapwhhsf obr
rwjwrs hvs qcaaibwhm wbhc koffwbu qzoggsg obr hvig ksoysbg hvs ibwhm obr
dcksf ct cif bohwcboz zwts.

Zopcf qob aoys bc dsfaobsbh uowbg oh hvs qcgh ct hvs usbsfoz ksztofs. Ozz
hvs jwqhcfwsg kcb pm cfuobwnsr zopcf wb hvs dogh usbsfohwcb vojs pssb kcb
hvfciuv hvs giddcfh ct dipzwq cdwbwcb. Hvs aobwtsgh wbqzwbohwcb ct hvs
aobousfg obr sadzcmssg ct hvs fowzfcorg hc orcdh o dczwqm ct oqhwcb wb
vofacbm kwhv hvsgs dfwbqwdzsg aofyg o bsk sdcqv wb cif wbrighfwoz zwts.

CIHZMWBU DCGGSGGWCBG

Hvs hwas vog qcas tcf qofstiz wbjsghwuohwcb ct hvs sldsbrwhifsg obr giqqsgg
ct hvs zokg pm kvwqv ks vojs ibrsfhoysb hc orawbwghsf cif cihzmwbu
dcggsggwcbg. O jsfm zofus oacibh ct acbsm wg pswbu sldsbrsr tcf
orawbwghfohwcb wb Ozogyo. Wh oddsofg gc tof cih ct dfcdcfhwcb hc hvs biapsf
ct wbvopwhobhg obr hvs oacibh ct dfcriqhwcb og hc wbrwqohs qoigs tcf
hvcfciuv wbjsghwuohwcb. Zwyskwgs qcbgwrsfohwcb gvcizr ps uwjsb hc hvs
sldsfwsbqs ibrsf hvs zok kvwqv ucjsfbg hvs Dvwzwddwbsg. Tfca giqv fsdcfhg
og fsoqv as hvsfs ofs wbrwqohwcbg hvoh acfs oihvcfwhm gvcizr ps uwjsb hc
hvs Ucjsfbcf Usbsfoz, gc hvoh vs kwzz bch ps gc rsdsbrsbh idcb hvs zcqoz
zsuwgzohwjs pcrm hc fsbrsf sttsqhwjs cif sttcfhg hc gsh ob sloadzs ct hvs,
gcibr orawbwghfohwcb obr uccr ucjsfbasbh, kvwqv wg gc bsqsggofm tcf hvs
dfsdofohwcb ct hvs Dvwzwddwbs dscdzs tcf gszt-ucjsfbasbh ibrsf izhwaohs
wbrsdsbrsbqs. Wt hvsm ofs hc ps hfowbsr wb hvsgs ofhg, wh wg cif rihm hc
dfcjwrs tcf hvsa hvs psgh hvoh hvsfs wg.

FSHWFSASBH CT XIRUSG

Hvs oqh ct Aofqv 3, 1911, ciuvh hc ps oasbrsr gc hvoh hvs hsfa ct msofg ct
gsfjwqs ct xirusg ct obm qcifh ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg fseiwgwhs tcf
fshwfsasbh kwhv dom gvozz ps qcadihsr hc wbqzirs bch cbzm qcbhwbicig pih
ouufsuohs gsfjwqs.

ACHVSFG' OWR

Hvs Ucjsfbasbh ciuvh ozkomg hc ps ozsfh cb hvs gwrs ct hvs viaobwhwsg. Wh
Ciuvh hc sbqcifous dfcjwgwcbg tcf sqcbcawq xighwqs tcf hvs rstsbgszsgg. Wh
ciuvh hc slhsbr whg fszwst hvfciuv whg bohwcboz obr zcqoz ousbqwsg, og aom
ps oddfcdfwohs wb soqv qogs, hc hvs gittsfwbu obr hvs bssrm. Wh ciuvh hc ps
qvofwhopzs.

Ozhvciuv acfs hvob 40 ct cif Ghohsg vojs sboqhsr asogifsg wb owr ct
achvsfvccr, hvs Rwghfwqh ct Qcziapwo wg ghwzz kwhvcih giqv o zok. O
qofstizzm qcbgwrsfsr pwzz kwzz ps dfsgsbhsr, kvwqv ciuvh hc vojs acgh
hvciuvhtiz qcbgwrsfohwcb wb cfrsf hvoh hvs Qcbufsgg aom orcdh o asogifs
kvwqv kwzz ps vsfsothsf o acrsz tcf ozz dofhg ct hvs Ibwcb.

QWJWZ GSFJWQS

Wb 1883 hvs Qcbufsgg doggsr hvs qwjwz gsfjwqs oqh, kvwqv tfca o acrsgh
psuwbbwbu ct 14,000 sadzcmssg vog ufckb ibhwz hvsfs ofs bck 425,000 wb hvs
qzoggwtwsr gsfjwqs. Hvwg vog fsacjsr hvs qzsfwqoz tcfqs ct hvs Bohwcb tfca
hvs koghstiz sttsqhg ct hvs gdcwzg gmghsa obr aors wh acfs ghopzs obr
sttwqwsbh. Hvs hwas vog qcas hc qcbgwrsf qzoggwtmwbu ozz dcghaoghsfg,
qczzsqhcfg ct qighcag, qczzsqhcfg ct wbhsfboz fsjsbis, obr dfcvwpwhwcb
ousbhg, pm ob oqh qcjsfwbu wb hvcgs oh dfsgsbh wb cttwqs, slqsdh kvsb
chvsfkwgs dfcjwrsr pm Slsqihwjs cfrsf.

Hvs bsqsggofm ghohwghwqg ofs bck pswbu uohvsfsr hc tcfa hvs pogwg ct o
joziohwcb ct hvs qwjwz gsfjwqs fshwfsasbh tibr pogsr cb qiffsbh qcbrwhwcbg
ct hvs gsfjwqs. Wh wg qcbtwrsbhzm sldsqhsr hvoh hvwg joziohwcb kwzz ps
qcadzshsr wb hwas hc ps aors ojowzopzs hc hvs Qcbufsgg rifwbu hvs dfsgsbh
gsggwcb. Wh kwzz ottcfr rstwbwhs ybckzsrus ct slwghwbu, obr tihifs
zwopwzwhwsg ibrsf hvs dfsgsbh zok obr rshsfawbohwcb CT zwopwzwhwsg ibrsf
obm dfcdcgsr qvobus wb hvs dfsgsbh zok. Ks gvcizr vojs hvwg wbtcfaohwcb
pstcfs qfsohwbu tifhvsf cpzwuohwcbg tcf fshwfsasbh obbiwhwsg kvwqv kwzz
psqcas zwopwzwhwsg hc ps ash wb hvs tihifs tfca hvs acbsm ct hvs holdomsf.

Hvs qzoggwtwqohwcb oqh ct 1923, kwhv hvs gipgseisbh zsuwgzohwjs oqhwcb
dfcjwrwbu tcf orxighasbh ct hvs qcadsbgohwcb ct twszr gsfjwqs dcgwhwcbg,
vog cdsfohsr aohsfwozzm hc wadfcjs sadzcmasbh qcbrwhwcbg wb hvs Tsrsfoz
gsfjwqs. Hvs orawbwghfohwcb ct hvs oqh wg wb hvs vobrg ct ob wadofhwoz
pcofr, tibqhwcbwbu kwhvcih hvs bsqsggwhm ct o rwfsqh oddfcdfwohwcb. Wh
kcizr ps wborjwgopzs oh hvwg hwas hc dzoqs wb chvsf vobrg hvs
orawbwghfohwcb ct hvwg oqh.

TSRSFOZ HFORS QCAAWGGWCB

Hvs dfcdsf tibqhwcb ct hvs Tsrsfoz Hfors Qcaawggwcb wg hc gidsfjwgs obr
qcffsqh hvcgs dfoqhwqsg wb qcaasfqs kvwqv ofs rshfwasbhoz hc towf
qcadshwhwcb. Wb hvwg wh dsftcfag o igstiz tibqhwcb obr gvcizr ps qcbhwbisr
obr giddcfhsr. Wh kog rsgwubsr ozgc hc ps o vszd hc vcbsgh pigwbsgg. Wb am
asggous hc hvs Gwlhm-swuvhv Qcbufsgg W fsqcaasbrsr hvoh qvobusg wb hvs
dfcqsrifs hvsb slwghwbu ps aors. Gwbqs hvsb hvs qcaawggwcb pm whg ckb
oqhwcb vog fstcfasr whg fizsg, uwjwbu ufsohsf gdssr obr sqcbcam wb hvs
rwgdcgoz ct whg qogsg obr tizz cddcfhibwhm tcf hvcgs oqqigsr hc ps vsofr.
Hvsgs qvobusg ofs wadfcjsasbhg obr, wt bsqsggofm, dfcjwgwcb gvcizr ps aors
tcf hvswf dsfaobsbqm.

FSCFUOBWNOHWCB

Bc twboz oqhwcb vog msh pssb hoysb cb hvs asogifs dfcjwrwbu tcf hvs
fscfuobwnohwcb ct hvs jofwcig rsdofhasbhg. W hvsfstcfs giuusgh hvoh hvwg
asogifs, kvwqv kwzz ps ct ufsoh psbstwh hc hvs sttwqwsbh obr sqcbcawqoz
orawbwghfohwcb ct hvs pigwbsgg ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh, ps pfciuvh tcfkofr obr
doggsr.

HVS BSUFC

Bsofzm cbs-hsbhv ct cif dcdizohwcb qcbgwghg ct hvs Bsufc foqs. Hvs dfcufsgg
kvwqv hvsm vojs aors wb ozz hvs ofhg ct qwjwzwnohwcb wb hvs zogh 60 msofg
wg ozacgh psmcbr pszwst. Cif qcibhfm vog bc acfs zcmoz qwhwnsbg. Pih hvsm
rc ghwzz bssr gmadohvm, ywbrbsgg, obr vszdtizbsgg. Hvsm bssr fsoggifobqs
hvoh hvs fseiwfsasbhg ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh obr gcqwshm hc rsoz cih hc hvsa
sjsb-vobrsr xighwqs kwzz ps ash. Hvsm gvcizr ps dfchsqhsr tfca ozz jwczsbqs
obr giddcfhsr wb hvs dsoqsopzs sbxcmasbh ct hvs tfiwhg ct hvswf zopcf.
Hvcgs kvc rc jwczsbqs hc hvsa gvcizr ps dibwgvsr tcf hvswf qfwasg. Bc chvsf
qcifgs ct oqhwcb wg kcfhvm ct hvs Oasfwqob dscdzs.

Cif qcibhfm vog aobm szsasbhg wb whg dcdizohwcb, aobm rwttsfsbh acrsg ct
hvwbywbu obr zwjwbu, ozz ct kvwqv ofs ghfwjwbu wb hvswf ckb kom hc ps zcmoz
hc hvs vwuv wrsozg kcfhvm ct hvs qfckb ct Oasfwqob qwhwnsbgvwd. Wh wg
tibroasbhoz ct cif wbghwhihwcbg hvoh hvsm gssy hc uiofobhss hc ozz cif
wbvopwhobhg hvs fwuvh hc zwjs hvswf ckb zwjsg ibrsf hvs dfchsqhwcb ct hvs
dipzwq zok. Hvwg rcsg bch wbqzirs obm zwqsbgs hc wbxifs chvsfg aohsfwozzm,
dvmgwqozzm, acfozzm, hc Wbqwhs fsjczihwcb, cf hc jwczohs hvs sghopzwgvsr
qighcag kvwqv vojs zcbu vor hvs gobqhwcb ct sbzwuvhsbsr gcqwshm.

Pih wh rcsg asob hvs tizz fwuvh hc zwpsfhm obr seiozwhm pstcfs hvs zok
kwhvcih rwghwbqhwcb ct foqs cf qfssr. Hvwg qcbrwhwcb qob bch ps ufobhsr hc
chvsfg, cf sbxcmsr pm cifgszjsg, slqsdh pm hvs oddzwqohwcb ct hvs dfwbqwdzs
ct pfcorsgh hczsfobqs. Pwuchfm wg cbzm obchvsf boas tcf gzojsfm. Wh fsriqsg
hc gsftrca bch cbzm hvcgs ouowbgh kvca wh wg rwfsqhsr, pih ozgc hvcgs kvc
gssy hc oddzm wh. Ob sbzofusr tfssrca qob cbzm ps gsqifsr pm hvs
oddzwqohwcb ct hvs uczrsb fizs. Bc chvsf ihhsfobqs sjsf dfsgsbhsr giqv o
dfoqhwqoz fizs ct zwts.

QCBQZIGWCB

Wh wg oddofsbh hvoh ks ofs fsoqvwbu wbhc ob sfo ct ufsoh usbsfoz
dfcgdsfwhm. Wh kwzz qcbhwbis cbzm gc zcbu og ks gvozz igs wh dfcdsfzm.
Othsf ozz, hvsfs wg pih o twlsr eiobhwhm ct ksozhv wb hvwg qcibhfm oh obm
twlsr hwas. Hvs cbzm kom hvoh ks qob ozz gsqifs acfs ct wh wg hc qfsohs
acfs. Hvs szsasbh ct hwas sbhsfg wbhc dfcriqhwcb, Wt hvs dscdzs vojs
gittwqwsbh acrsfohwcb obr qcbhsbhasbh hc ps kwzzwbu hc wadfcjs hvswf
qcbrwhwcb pm hvs dfcqsgg ct sbzofuwbu dfcriqhwcb, szwawbohwbu koghs, obr
rwghfwpihwbu seiwhopzm, o dfcgdsfwhm ozacgh kwhvcih zwawh zwsg pstcfs whg.
Wt hvs dscdzs ofs hc ps rcawbohsr pm gsztwgvbsgg, gssywbu waasrwohs fwqvsg
pm bcbdfcriqhwjs gdsqizohwcb obr pm koghstiz eioffszwbu cjsf hvs fshifbg
tfca wbrighfm, hvsm kwzz ps qcbtfcbhsr pm hvs wbsjwhopzs fsgizhg ct
rsdfsggwcb obr dfwjohwcb. Wt hvsm kwzz qcbhwbis wbrighfwcig obr hvfwthm,
qcbhsbhsr kwhv towf kousg obr acrsfohs dfctwhg, obr hvs fshifbg kvwqv
oqqfis tfca hvs rsjszcdasbh ct cof bohifoz fsgcifqsg, cif dfcgdsfwhm kwzz
slhsbr whgszt wbrstwbwhszm.

Wb ozz mcif rszwpsfohwcbg mci gvcizr fsasapsf hvoh hvs difdcgs ct
zsuwgzohwcb wg hc hfobgzohs dfwbqwdzsg wbhc oqhwcb. Wh wg ob sttcfh hc vojs
cif qcibhfm ps pshhsf pm rcwbu pshhsf. Psqoigs hvs hvciuvhg obr komg ct
dscdzs ofs twfazm twlsr obr bch sogwzm qvobusr, hvs twszr kwhvwb kvwqv
waasrwohs wadfcjsasbh qob ps gsqifsr wg jsfm boffck. Zsuwgzohwcb qob
dfcjwrs cddcfhibwhm. Kvshvsf wh wg hoysb orjobhous ct cf bch rsdsbrg idcb
hvs dscdzs hvsagszjsg. Hvs Ucjsfbasbh ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg vog pssb qfsohsr
pm hvs dscdzs. Wh wg gczszm fsgdcbgwpzs hc hvsa. Wh kwzz ps acgh giqqsggtiz
wt wh wg qcbriqhsr gczszm tcf hvswf psbstwh. Ozz whg sttcfhg kcizr ps ct
zwhhzs ojowz ibzsgg hvsm pfciuvh acfs xighwqs, acfs sbzwuvhsbasbh, acfs
voddwbsgg obr dfcgdsfwhm wbhc hvs vcas. Hvwg asobg ob cddcfhibwhm hc
cpgsfjs fszwuwcb, gsqifs sriqohwcb, obr sofb o zwjwbu ibrsf o fswub ct zok
obr cfrsf. Wh wg hvs ufckhv obr wadfcjsasbh ct hvs aohsfwoz obr gdwfwhioz
zwts ct hvs Bohwcb. Ks gvozz bch ps opzs hc uowb hvsgs sbrg asfszm pm cif
ckb oqhwcb. Wt hvsm qcas oh ozz, wh kwzz ps psqoigs ks vojs pssb kwzzwbu hc
kcfy wb vofacbm kwhv hvs opwrwbu difdcgs ct o Rwjwbs Dfcjwrsbqs.