Jzetv kyv tcfjv fw kyv crjk Tfexivjj kyv Erkzfe yrj cfjk Givjzuvek Yriuzex.
Kyv nficu bevn yzj bzeuevjj reu yzj yldrezkp, yzj xivrkevjj reu yzj
tyrirtkvi. Yv yrj cvwk yzj drib lgfe yzjkfip. Yv yrj druv aljkztv dfiv
tvikrze reu gvrtv dfiv jvtliv. Kyv jligrjjzex kizslkv grzu kf yzj dvdfip rj
yv nrj sfiev rtifjj kyv tfekzevek kf ivjk rk crjk rk yfdv ivmvrcvu kyv
gcrtv yv yvcu ze kyv yvrikj fw kyv Rdviztre gvfgcv. Slk kyzj zj efk kyv
fttrjzfe wfi vokveuvu ivwvivetv kf kyv dre fi yzj nfib. Ze kyzj givjvetv,
rdfex kyvjv nyf bevn reu cfmvu yzd, kyrk zj leevtvjjrip. Slk nv nyf nviv
rjjftzrkvu nzky yzd tflcu efk ivjldv kfxvkyvi kyv wletkzfej fw fli fwwztv
nzkyflk grljzex wfi r dfdvek, reu ze yzj dvdfip ivtfejvtirkzex flijvcmvj kf
kyv jvimztv fw fli tflekip. Yv zj xfev. Nv ivdrze. Zk zj fli ulkp, leuvi
kyv zejgzirkzfe fw yzj vordgcv, kf krbv lg kyv sliuvej nyzty yv nrj
gvidzkkvu kf crp ufne, reu kf uvmvcfg reu jlggfik kyv nzjv gizetzgcvj fw
xfmviedvek nyzty yv ivgivjvekvu.

WFIVZXE RWWRZIJ

Wfi lj gvrtv ivzxej vmvipnyviv. Nv uvjziv kf gvigvklrkv zk rcnrpj sp
xirekzex wlcc aljkztv kf fkyvij reu ivhlzizex fw fkyvij wlcc aljkztv kf
flijvcmvj.

Fli tflekip yrj fev triuzerc gizetzgcv kf drzekrze ze zkj wfivzxe gfcztp.
Zk zj re Rdviztre gizetzgcv. Zk dljk sv re Rdviztre gfcztp. Nv rkkveu kf
fli fne rwwrzij, tfejvimv fli fne jkivexky, reu gifkvtk kyv zekvivjkj fw
fli fne tzkzqvej; slk nv ivtfxezqv kyfiflxycp fli fsczxrkzfe kf yvcg
fkyvij, ivjvimzex kf kyv uvtzjzfe fw fli fne Aluxdvek kyv kzdv, kyv gcrtv,
reu kyv dvkyfu. Nv ivrczqv kyv tfddfe sfeu fw yldrezkp. Nv befn kyv
zevjtrgrscv crn fw jvimztv.

Fli tflekip yrj uvwzezkvcp ivwljvu kf rufgk reu irkzwp kyv tfmverek fw kyv
Cvrxlv fw Erkzfej. Nv yrmv efk wvck nriirekvu ze rjjldzex kyv
ivjgfejzszczkzvj nyzty zkj dvdsvij yrmv rjjldvu. Z rd efk gifgfjzex rep
tyrexv ze kyzj gfcztp; evzkyvi zj kyv Jverkv. Kyv zetzuvek, jf wri rj nv
riv tfetvievu, zj tcfjvu. Kyv Cvrxlv vozjkj rj r wfivzxe rxvetp. Nv yfgv zk
nzcc sv yvcgwlc. Slk kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj jvvj ef ivrjfe kf czdzk zkj fne
wivvufd reu zeuvgveuvetv fw rtkzfe sp afzezex zk. Nv jyrcc uf nvcc kf
ivtfxezqv kyzj srjzt wrtk ze rcc erkzferc rwwrzij reu xfmvie flijvcmvj
rttfiuzexcp.

NFICU TFLIK

Fli wfivzxe gfcztp yrj rcnrpj svve xlzuvu sp knf gizetzgcvj. Kyv fev zj kyv
rmfzuretv fw gvidrevek gfczkztrc rcczretvj nyzty nflcu jrtizwztv fli gifgvi
zeuvgveuvetv. Kyv fkyvi zj kyv gvrtvwlc jvkkcvdvek fw tfekifmvijzvj svknvve
erkzfej. Sp vordgcv reu sp kivrkp nv yrmv rumftrkvu riszkirkzfe. Wfi evricp
25 pvrij nv yrmv svve r dvdsvi fw Kyv Yrxlv Kizslerc, reu yrmv cfex jflxyk
kyv tivrkzfe fw r gvidrevek Nficu Tflik fw Aljkztv. Z rd ze wlcc rttfiu
nzky sfky fw kyvjv gfcztzvj. Z wrmfi kyv vjkrsczjydvek fw jlty r tflik
zekveuvu kf zetcluv kyv nyfcv nficu. Kyrk zj, reu yrj cfex svve, re
Rdviztre gfcztp.

Gveuzex svwfiv kyv Jverkv zj r gifgfjrc kyrk kyzj Xfmviedvek xzmv zkj
jlggfik kf kyv Gvidrevek Tflik fw Zekvierkzferc Aljkztv, nyzty zj r evn reu
jfdvnyrk uzwwvivek gcre. Kyzj zj efk r grikzjre hlvjkzfe. Zk jyflcu efk
rjjldv re rikzwztzrc zdgfikretv. Kyv tflik zj dvivcp r tfemvezvek
zejkildvek fw rualjkdvek kf nyzty nv tflcu xf, slk kf nyzty nv tflcu efk
sv siflxyk. Zk jyflcu sv uzjtljjvu nzky vekziv treufi, efk sp r gfczkztrc
slk sp r aluztzrc dvkyfu, nzkyflk givjjliv reu nzkyflk givaluztv.
Grikzjrejyzg yrj ef gcrtv ze fli wfivzxe ivcrkzfej. Rj Z nzjy kf jvv r
tflik vjkrsczjyvu, reu rj kyv gifgfjrc givjvekj kyv fecp girtkztrc gcre fe
nyzty drep erkzfej yrmv vmvi rxivvu, kyflxy zk drp efk dvvk vmvip uvjziv, Z
kyvivwfiv tfddveu zk kf kyv wrmfirscv tfejzuvirkzfe fw kyv Jverkv, nzky kyv
gifgfjvu ivjvimrkzfej tcvricp zeuztrkzex fli ivwljrc kf ruyviv kf kyv
Cvrxlv fw Erkzfej.

ILJJZR

Fli uzgcfdrkzt ivcrkzfej, crkvcp jf crixvcp zekviilgkvu, riv efn svzex
ivjldvu, slk Iljjzr givjvekj efkrscv uzwwztlckzvj. Nv yrmv vmvip uvjziv kf
jvv kyrk xivrk gvfgcv, nyf riv fli kiruzkzferc wizveuj, ivjkfivu kf kyvzi
gfjzkzfe rdfex kyv erkzfej fw kyv vriky. Nv yrmv ivczvmvu kyvzi gzkzrscv
uvjkzklkzfe nzky re vefidflj tyrizkp. Fli Xfmviedvek fwwvij ef fsavtkzfe
kf kyv triipzex fe fw tfddvitv sp fli tzkzqvej nzky kyv gvfgcv fw Iljjzr.
Fli Xfmviedvek ufvj efk gifgfjv, yfnvmvi, kf vekvi zekf ivcrkzfej nzky
refkyvi ivxzdv nyzty ivwljvj kf ivtfxezqv kyv jretkzkp fw zekvierkzferc
fsczxrkzfej. Z uf efk gifgfjv kf srikvi rnrp wfi kyv gizmzcvxv fw kiruv rep
fw kyv tyvizjyvu izxykj fw yldrezkp. Z uf efk gifgfjv kf drbv dvityreuzjv
fw rep Rdviztre gizetzgcvj. Kyvjv izxykj reu gizetzgcvj dljk xf nyvivmvi
kyv jretkzfej fw fli Xfmviedvek xf.

Slk nyzcv kyv wrmfi fw Rdviztr zj efk wfi jrcv, Z rd nzcczex kf drbv mvip
crixv tfetvjjzfej wfi kyv gligfjv fw ivjtlzex kyv gvfgcv fw Iljjzr. Rcivrup
vetflirxzex vmzuvetvj fw ivkliezex kf kyv retzvek nrpj fw jftzvkp tre sv
uvkvtkvu. Slk dfiv riv evvuvu. Nyvevmvi kyviv rggvrij rep uzjgfjzkzfe kf
tfdgvejrkv fli tzkzqvej nyf nviv uvjgfzcvu, reu kf ivtfxezqv kyrk uvsk
tfekirtkvu nzky fli Xfmviedvek, efk sp kyv Tqri, slk sp kyv evncp wfidvu
Ivglsczt fw Iljjzr; nyvevmvi kyv rtkzmv jgzizk fw vedzkp kf fli
zejkzklkzfej zj rsrkvu; nyvevmvi kyviv rggvri nfibj dvkv wfi ivgvekretv;
fli tflekip flxyk kf sv kyv wzijk kf xf kf kyv vtfefdzt reu dfirc ivjtlv fw
Iljjzr. Nv yrmv vmvip uvjziv kf yvcg reu ef uvjziv kf zealiv. Nv yfgv kyv
kzdv zj evri rk yreu nyve nv tre rtk.

UVSKJ

Kyv tliivek uvsk reu zekvivjk ulv wifd wfivzxe Xfmviedvekj, votcljzmv fw
kyv Sizkzjy uvsk fw $4,600,000,000, zj rsflk $7,200,000,000. Z uf efk wrmfi
kyv tretvccrkzfe fw kyzj uvsk, slk Z jvv ef fsavtkzfe kf rualjkzex zk ze
rttfiuretv nzky kyv gizetzgcv rufgkvu wfi kyv Sizkzjy uvsk. Fli tflekip
nflcu efk nzjy kf rjjldv kyv ifcv fw re fggivjjzmv tivuzkfi, slk nflcu
drzekrze kyv gizetzgcv kyrk wzeretzrc fsczxrkzfej svknvve erkzfej riv
czbvnzjv dfirc fsczxrkzfej nyzty zekvierkzferc wrzky reu yfefi ivhlziv
jyflcu sv uzjtyrixvu.

Fli Xfmviedvek yrj r czhlzurkvu tcrzd rxrzejk Xvidrep wfi kyv vogvejv fw
kyv ridp fw fttlgrkzfe fw fmvi $255,000,000. Svjzuvj kyzj, kyv Dzovu Tcrzdj
Tfddzjjzfe yrmv svwfiv kyvd rsflk 12,500 tcrzdj fw Rdviztre tzkzqvej,
rxxivxrkzex rsflk $1,225,000,000. Kyvjv tcrzdj yrmv rcivrup svve ivultvu sp
r ivtvek uvtzjzfe, slk kyviv riv mrczu tcrzdj ivrtyzex nvcc kfnriu
$500,000,000. Fli kyfljreuj fw tzkzqvej nzky tivuzkj ulv kyvd fw yleuivuj
fw dzcczfej fw ufccrij yrmv ef ivuivjj jrmv ze kyv rtkzfe fw fli
Xfmviedvek. Kyvjv riv mvip jlsjkrekzrc zekvivjkj, nyzty zk zj kyv ulkp fw
fli Xfmviedvek kf gifkvtk rj svjk zk tre. Kyrk tflijv Z gifgfjv kf glijlv.

Zk zj wfi kyvjv ivrjfej kyrk nv yrmv r uzivtk zekvivjk ze kyv vtfefdzt
ivtfmvip fw Vlifgv. Kyvp riv vecrixvu sp fli uvjziv wfi kyv jkrszczkp fw
tzmzczqrkzfe reu kyv nvcwriv fw yldrezkp. Kyrk nv riv drbzex jrtizwztvj kf
kyrk veu efev tre uvep. Fli uvwviivu zekvivjk rcfev rdflekj kf r dzcczfe
ufccrij vmvip urp. Slk ivtvekcp nv fwwvivu kf rzu nzky fli rumztv reu
tflejvc. Nv yrmv ivzkvirkvu fli uvjziv kf jvv Wiretv grzu reu Xvidrep
ivmzmvu. Nv yrmv gifgfjvu uzjridrdvek. Nv yrmv vrievjkcp jflxyk kf tfdgfjv
uzwwvivetvj reu ivjkfiv gvrtv. Nv jyrcc gvijvmviv ze nvcc-ufzex, efk sp
wfitv, slk sp ivrjfe.

WFIVZXE GRGVIJ

Leuvi kyv crn kyv grgvij gvikrzezex kf wfivzxe ivcrkzfej kf sv gizekvu riv
kirejdzkkvu rj r grik fw kyzj dvjjrxv. Fkyvi mfcldvj fw kyvjv grgvij nzcc
wfccfn.

WFIVZXE JVIMZTV

Kyv wfivzxe jvimztv fw fli Xfmviedvek evvuj kf sv ivfixrezqvu reu
zdgifmvu.

WZJTRC TFEUZKZFE

Fli drze gifscvdj riv ufdvjkzt gifscvdj. Wzeretzrc jkrszczkp zj kyv wzijk
ivhlzjzkv fw jfleu xfmviedvek. Nv tre efk vjtrgv kyv vwwvtk fw nficu
tfeuzkzfej. Nv tre efk rmfzu kyv zevmzkrscv ivjlckj fw kyv vtfefdzt
uzjfiuvij nyzty yrmv ivrtyvu rcc erkzfej. Slk nv jyrcc uzdzezjy kyvzi yrid
kf lj ze gifgfikzfe rj nv tfekzelv kf ivjkfiv fli Xfmviedvek wzeretvj kf r
jvtliv reu veulirscv gfjzkzfe. Kyzj nv tre reu dljk uf. Lgfe kyrk wzid
wfleurkzfe ivjkj kyv fecp yfgv fw gifxivjj reu gifjgvizkp. Wifd kyrk jflitv
dljk tfdv ivczvw wfi kyv gvfgcv.

Kyzj zj svzex, rttfdgczjyvu sp r uirjkzt slk fiuvicp ivkivetydvek, nyzty zj
sizexzex fli vogvejvj nzkyze fli dvrej. Kyv fizxze fw kyzj yrj svve kyv
uvkvidzerkzfe fw kyv Rdviztre gvfgcv, kyv drze jlggfik yrj svve kyv tflirxv
fw kyfjv ze rlkyfizkp, reu kyv vwwvtkzmv dvkyfu yrj svve kyv Sluxvk Jpjkvd.
Kyv ivjlck yrj zemfcmvu ivrc jrtizwztv sp uvgrikdvek yvruj, slk zk yrj svve
druv nzkyflk wczetyzex. Kyzj jpjkvd zj r crn fw kyv Tfexivjj. Zk ivgivjvekj
pfli nzcc. Zk dljk sv drzekrzevu, reu flxyk kf sv jkivexkyvevu sp kyv
vordgcv fw pfli fsjvimretv. Nzkyflk r Sluxvk Jpjkvd kyviv tre sv ef wzovu
ivjgfejzszczkp reu ef tfejkiltkzmv jtzvekzwzt vtfefdp.

Kyzj xivrk tfetvekirkzfe fw vwwfik sp kyv rudzezjkirkzfe reu Tfexivjj yrj
siflxyk kyv vogveuzklivj, votcljzmv fw kyv jvcw-jlggfikzex Gfjk. Fwwztv
Uvgrikdvek, ufne kf kyivv szcczfe ufccrij. Zk zj gfjjzscv, ze tfejvhlvetv,
kf drbv r crixv ivultkzfe ze kyv krovj fw kyv gvfgcv, nyzty zj kyv jfcv
fsavtk fw rcc tlikrzcdvek. Kyzj zj kivrkvu rk xivrkvi cvexky ze kyv Sluxvk
dvjjrxv, reu r gifgfjvu gcre yrj svve givjvekvu ze uvkrzc ze r jkrkvdvek sp
kyv Jvtivkrip fw kyv Kivrjlip nyzty yrj dp lehlrczwzvu rggifmrc. Z
vjgvtzrccp tfddveu r uvtivrjv fe vrievu zetfdvj, reu wlikyvi rsfczkzfe fw
rudzjjzfe, dvjjrxv, reu elzjretv krovj. Kyv rdljvdvek reu vultrkzferc
mrclv fw dfmzex gztklivj flxyk efk kf sv krovu. Uzdzezjyzex tyrixvj rxrzejk
dfuvirkv zetfdvj wifd zemvjkdvek nzcc rwwfiu zddvejv ivczvw, nyzcv r
ivmzjzfe fw kyv jlikrovj nzcc efk fecp gifmzuv ruuzkzferc dfevp wfi trgzkrc
zemvjkdvek, kylj jkzdlcrkzex zeuljkip reu vdgcfpzex dfiv slk nzcc efk
xivrkcp ivultv kyv ivmvelv wifd kyrk jflitv, reu drp ze kyv wlkliv rtklrccp
zetivrjv zk.

Svzex fggfjvu kf nri krovj ze kzdv fw gvrtv, Z rd efk ze wrmfi fw
votvjj-gifwzkj krovj. R mvip xivrk jvimztv tflcu sv iveuvivu kyiflxy
zddvuzrkv vertkdvek fw cvxzjcrkzfe ivczvmzex kyv gvfgcv fw jfdv fw kyv
sliuve fw krorkzfe. Kf ivultv nri krovj zj kf xzmv vmvip yfdv r svkkvi
tyretv.

Wfi jvmve pvrij kyv gvfgcv yrmv sfiev nzky letfdgcrzezex tflirxv kyv
kivdveuflj sliuve fw erkzferc reu cftrc krorkzfe. Kyvjv dljk sfky sv
ivultvu. Kyv krovj fw kyv Erkzfe dljk sv ivultvu efn rj dlty rj giluvetv
nzcc gvidzk, reu vogveuzklivj dljk sv ivultvu rttfiuzexcp. Yzxy krovj ivrty
vmvipnyviv reu sliuve vmvipsfup. Kyvp xvri dfjk yvrmzcp lgfe kyv gffi. Kyvp
uzdzezjy zeuljkip reu tfddvitv. Kyvp drbv rxiztlckliv legifwzkrscv. Kyvp
zetivrjv kyv irkvj fe kirejgfikrkzfe. Kyvp riv r tyrixv fe vmvip evtvjjrip
fw czwv. Fw rcc jvimztvj nyzty kyv Tfexivjj tre iveuvi kf kyv tflekip, Z
yrmv ef yvjzkrkzfe ze uvtcrizex k evxcvtk zk, kf gfjkgfev zk, kf fsjkiltk
zk sp lejfleu gifgfjrcj, zj kf svtfdv lenfikyp fw glsczt tfewzuvetv reu
lekilv kf glsczt kiljk. Kyv tflekip nrekj kyzj dvrjliv kf yrmv kyv izxyk fw
nrp fmvi re fkyvij.

Refkyvi ivwfid nyzty zj lixvek ze fli wzjtrc jpjkvd zj kyv rsfczkzfe fw kyv
izxyk kf zjjlv kro-vovdgk jvtlizkzvj. Kyv vozjkzex jpjkvd efk fecp gvidzkj
r crixv rdflek fw kyv nvrcky fw kyv Efkzfe kf vjtrgv zkj aljk sliuve slk
rtkj rj r tfekzelrc jkzdlcrek kf dleztzgrc vokirmrxretv. Kyzj jyflcu sv
gifyzszkvu sp tfejkzklkzferc rdveudvek. Rcc kyv nvrcky fw kyv Erkzfe flxyk
kf tfekizslkv zkj wrzi jyriv kf kyv vogvejvj fw kyv Erkzfe.

KRIZWW KRN

Kyv givjvek krizww crn yrj rttfdgczjyvu zkj knf drze fsavtkj. Zk yrj
jvtlivu re rsleurek ivmvelv reu svve gifultkzmv fw re rsfleuzex gifjgvizkp.
Leuvi zk kyv tflekip yrj yru r mvip crixv vogfik reu zdgfik kiruv. R
tfejkrek ivmzjzfe fw kyv krizww sp kyv Tfexivjj zj uzjkliszex reu yridwlc.
Kyv givjvek crn tfekrzej re vcrjkzt gifmzjzfe rlkyfizqzex kyv Givjzuvek kf
zetivrjv fi uvtivrjv givjvek jtyvulcvj efk ze votvjj fw 50 gvi tvekld kf
dvvk kyv uzwwvivetv ze tfjk fw gifultkzfe rk yfdv reu rsifru. Kyzj ufvj
efk, kf dp dzeu, nriirek r ivnizkzex x fw kyv nyfcv crn, slk ufvj dvre, reu
nzcc sv jf rudzezjkvivu, kyrk nyvevmvi kyv ivhlzivu zemvjkzxrkzfe jyfnj
kyrk zevhlrczkzvj fw jlwwztzvek zdgfikretv vozjk ze rep jtyvulcv, kyv gfnvi
kf tyrexv kyvd jyflcu reu nzcc sv rggczvu.

JYZGGZEX

Kyv vekziv nvcc svzex fw fli tflekip zj uvgveuvek lgfe kirejgfikrkzfe sp
jvr reu creu. Fli Xfmviedvek ulizex kyv nri rthlzivu r crixv dvityrek wcvvk
nyzty jyflcu sv kirejwviivu, rj jffe rj gfjjzscv, kf gizmrkv fnevijyzg reu
fgvirkzfe leuvi tfeuzkzfej nyzty nflcu jvtliv knf ivjlckj: Wzijk, reu fw
gizdv zdgfikretv, ruvhlrkv dvrej wfi erkzferc uvwvejv; jvtfeu, ruvhlrkv
jvimztv kf Rdviztre tfddvitv. Lekzc jyzggzex tfeuzkzfej riv jlty kyrk fli
wcvvk tre sv uzjgfjvu fw rumrekrxvfljcp leuvi kyvjv tfeuzkzfej, zk nzcc sv
fgvirkvu rj vtfefdztrccp rj gfjjzscv leuvi jlty gcrej rj drp sv uvmzjvu
wifd kzdv kf kzdv sp kyv Jyzggzex Sfriu. Nv dljk yrmv r dvityrek drizev
nyzty dvvkj kyvjv ivhlzivdvekj, reu nv jyrcc yrmv kf grp kyv tfjk fw zkj
jvimztv.

GLSCZT ZDGIFMVDVEKJ

Kyv kzdv yrj tfdv kf ivjldv ze r dfuvirkv nrp kyv fgvezex fw fli
zekirtfrjkrc nrkvinrpj; kyv tfekifc fw wcffu nrkvij fw kyv Dzjjzjjzggz reu
fw kyv Tfcfiruf Izmvij; kyv zdgifmvdvek fw kyv nrkvinrpj wifd kyv Xivrk
Crbvj kfnriu kyv Xlcw fw Dvoztf; reu kyv uvmvcfgdvek fw kyv xivrk gfnvi reu
ermzxrkzfe gifavtk fw kyv Jk. Crnivetv Izmvi, wfi nyzty vwwfikj riv efn
svzex druv kf jvtliv kyv evtvjjrip kivrkp nzky Trerur. Kyvjv gifavtkj tre
efk rcc sv leuvikrbve rk fetv, slk rcc jyflcu yrmv kyv zddvuzrkv
tfejzuvirkzfe fw kyv Tfexivjj reu sv rufgkvu rj wrjk rj gcrej tre sv
drklivu reu kyv evtvjjrip wleuj svtfdv rmrzcrscv. Kyzj zj efk zetfdgrkzscv
nzky vtfefdp, wfi kyvzi erkliv ufvj efk ivhlziv jf dlty r glsczt
vogveuzkliv rj r trgzkrc zemvjkdvek nyzty nzcc sv ivgifultkzmv, rj
vmzuvetvu sp kyv dribvu zetivrjv ze ivmvelv wifd kyv Grerdr Trerc. Lgfe
kyvjv gifavtkj uvgveu dlty wlkliv zeuljkizrc reu rxiztlcklirc gifxivjj.
Kyvp ivgivjvek kyv gifkvtkzfe fw crixv rivrj wifd wcffu reu kyv ruuzkzfe fw
r xivrk rdflek fw tyvrg gfnvi reu tyvrg wivzxyk sp ljv fw ermzxrkzfe, tyzvw
fw nyzty zj kyv sizexzex fw ftvre-xfzex jyzgj kf kyv Xivrk Crbvj.

Refkyvi gifscvd fw rcczvu tyrirtkvi zj kyv jlgvigfnvi uvmvcfgdvek fw kyv
Efikyvrjkvie Jkrkvj, tfejzuvirkzfe fw nyzty zj xifnzex leuvi kyv uzivtkzfe
fw kyv Uvgrikdvek fw Tfddvitv sp afzek tfewvivetv nzky kyv cftrc
rlkyfizkzvj.

IRZCIFRUJ

Tizkztzjd fw kyv irzcifru crn yrj svve uzivtkvu, wzijk, kf kyv jvtkzfe
crpzex ufne kyv ilcv sp nyzty irkvj riv wzovu, reu gifmzuzex wfi grpdvek kf
kyv Xfmviedvek reu ljv fw votvjj vriezexj; jvtfeu, kf kyv dvkyfu wfi kyv
rualjkdvek fw nrxv jtrcvj; reu kyziu, kf kyv rlkyfizkp gvidzkkzex
tfejfczurkzfej.

Zk yrj svve viifevfljcp rjjldvu kyrk kyv rtk leuvikrbvj kf xlrirekvv
irzcifru vriezexj. Kyv crn ivhlzivj kyrk irkvj jyflcu sv aljk reu
ivrjferscv. Kyrk yrj rcnrpj svve kyv ilcv leuvi nyzty irkvj yrmv svve
wzovu. Kf drbv r irkv kyrk ufvj efk pzvcu r wrzi ivklie ivjlckj ze
tfewzjtrkzfe, reu tfewzjtrkfip irkvj riv fw tflijv letfejkzklkzferc. Lecvjj
kyv Xfmviedvek ruyvivj kf kyv ilcv fw drbzex r irkv kyrk nzcc pzvcu r wrzi
ivklie, zk dljk rsreufe irkv drbzex rckfxvkyvi. Kyv evn reu zdgfikrek
wvrkliv fw kyrk grik fw kyv crn zj kyv ivtrgkliv reu ivuzjkizslkzfe fw
votvjj irkvj. Kyv tfejkzklkzferczkp fw kyzj dvkyfu zj efn svwfiv kyv
Jlgivdv Tflik wfi rualuztrkzfe. Kyvzi uvtzjzfe jyflcu sv rnrzkvu svwfiv
rkkvdgkzex wlikyvi cvxzjcrkzfe fe kyzj jlsavtk. Wlikyvidfiv, kyv zdgfikretv
fw kyzj wvrkliv nzcc efk sv xivrk zw tfejfczurkzfe xfvj zekf vwwvtk.

Kyv jvkkcvdvek fw irzcifru crsfi uzjglkvj zj r drkkvi fw xirmv glsczt
tfetvie. Kyv Crsfi Sfriu nrj vjkrsczjyvu kf gifkvtk kyv glsczt ze kyv
veafpdvek fw tfekzelflj jvimztv sp rkkvdgkzex kf zejliv aljkztv svknvve kyv
tfdgrezvj reu kyvzi vdgcfpvvj. Zk yrj svve r xivrk yvcg, slk zj efk
rckfxvkyvi jrkzjwrtkfip kf kyv glsczt, kyv vdgcfpvvj, fi kyv tfdgrezvj. Zw
r jlsjkrekzrc rxivvdvek tre sv ivrtyvu rdfex kyv xiflgj zekvivjkvu, kyviv
jyflcu sv ef yvjzkrkzfe ze vertkzex jlty rxivvdvek zekf crn. Zw zk zj efk
ivrtyvu, kyv Crsfi Sfriu drp mvip nvcc sv cvwk wfi kyv givjvek kf gifkvtk
kyv glsczt nvcwriv.

Kyv crn wfi tfejfczurkzfej zj efk jlwwztzvekcp vwwvtkzmv kf sv vogvuzkzflj.
Ruuzkzferc cvxzjcrkzfe zj evvuvu xzmzex rlkyfizkp wfi mfclekrip
tfejfczurkzfej, sfky ivxzferc reu iflkv, reu gifmzuzex Xfmviedvek drtyzevip
kf rzu reu jkzdlcrkv jlty rtkzfe, rcnrpj jlsavtk kf kyv rggifmrc fw kyv
Zekvijkrkv Tfddvitv Tfddzjjzfe. Kyzj jyflcu rlkyfizqv kyv tfddzjjzfe kf
rggfzek tfddzkkvvj wfi vrty gifgfjvu xiflg, ivgivjvekzex kyv glsczt reu kyv
tfdgfevek ifruj, nzky gfnvi kf evxfkzrkv nzky zeuzmzulrc jvtlizkp yfcuvij
wfi re votyrexv fw kyvzi jvtlizkzvj wfi kyfjv fw kyv, tfejfczurkzfe fe jlty
kvidj reu tfeuzkzfej rj kyv tfddzjjzfe drp givjtizsv wfi rmfzuzex rep
tfewzjtrkzfe reu givjvimzex wrzi mrclvj. Jyflcu kyzj gvidzjjzmv
tfejfczurkzfe gifmv zevwwvtkzmv rwkvi r czdzkvu gvizfu, kyv rlkyfizkp fw
kyv Xfmviedvek nzcc yrmv kf sv uzivtkcp zemfbvu.

Tfejfczurkzfe rggvrij kf sv kyv fecp wvrjzscv dvkyfu wfi kyv drzekveretv fw
re ruvhlrkv jpjkvd fw kirejgfikrkzfe nzky re fggfiklezkp jf kf rualjk
wivzxyk irkvj rj kf dvvk jlty kvdgfirip tfeuzkzfej rj efn givmrzc ze jfdv
rxiztlcklirc jvtkzfej. Tfdgvkvek rlkyfizkzvj rxivv kyrk re vekziv
ivfixrezqrkzfe fw kyv irkv jkiltkliv wfi wivzxyk zj evtvjjrip. Kyzj jyflcu
sv fiuvivu rk fetv sp kyv Tfexivjj.

UVGRIKDVEK FW ALJKZTV

Rj ef ivmzjzfe fw kyv crnj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj yrj svve druv jzetv 1878, r
tfddzjjzfe fi tfddzkkvv jyflcu sv tivrkvu kf leuvikrbv kyzj nfib. Kyv
Aluztzrc Tfletzc ivgfikj kyrk knf dfiv uzjkiztk aluxvj riv evvuvu ze kyv
jflkyvie uzjkiztk fw Evn Pfib, fev ze kyv efikyvie uzjkiztk fw Xvfixzr, reu
knf dfiv tzitlzk aluxvj ze kyv Tzitlzk Tflik fw Rggvrcj fw kyv Vzxyky
Tzitlzk. Cvxzjcrkzfe jyflcu sv tfejzuvivu wfi kyzj gligfjv.

Zk zj uvjzirscv kf vogvuzkv kyv yvrizex reu uzjgfjrc fw trjvj. R
tfddzjjzfe fw Wvuvirc aluxvj reu crnpvij jyflcu sv tivrkvu kf ivtfddveu
cvxzjcrkzfe sp nyzty kyv giftvuliv ze kyv Wvuvirc kizrc tflikj drp sv
jzdgczwzvu reu ivxlcrkvu sp ilcvj fw tflik, irkyvi kyre sp jkrklkv; jlty
ilcvj kf sv jlsdzkkvu kf kyv Tfexivjj reu kf sv ze wfitv lekzc reelccvu fi
dfuzwzvu sp kyv Tfexivjj. Kyv Jlgivdv Tflik evvuj cvxzjcrkzfe ivmzjzex reu
jzdgczwpzex kyv crnj xfmviezex ivmzvn sp kyrk tflik, reu vecrixzex kyv
tcrjjvj fw trjvj fw kff czkkcv glsczt zdgfikretv kf sv jlsavtk kf ivmzvn.
Jlty ivwfidj nflcu vogvuzkv kyv kirejrtkzfe fw kyv sljzevjj fw kyv tflikj.
Kyv rudzezjkirkzfe fw aljkztv zj czbvcp kf wrzc zw zk sv cfex uvcrpvu.

Kyv Erkzferc Xfmviedvek yrj evmvi xzmve ruvhlrkv rkkvekzfe kf zkj gizjfe
gifscvdj. Zk flxyk kf gifmzuv vdgcfpdvek ze jlty wfidj fw gifultkzfe rj tre
sv ljvu sp kyv Xfmviedvek, kyflxy efk jfcu kf kyv glsczt ze tfdgvkzkzfe
nzky gizmrkv sljzevjj, wfi rcc gizjfevij nyf tre sv gcrtvu rk nfib, reu wfi
nyzty kyvp jyflcu ivtvzmv r ivrjferscv tfdgvejrkzfe, rmrzcrscv wfi kyvzi
uvgveuvekj.

Knf zeuvgveuvek ivwfidrkfizvj riv evvuvu; fev wfi kyv jvxivxrkzfe fw nfdve,
reu refkyvi wfi kyv jvxivxrkzfe fw pflex dve jvimzex kyvzi wzijk jvekvetv.

Kyv rudzezjkirkzfe fw aljkztv nflcu sv wrtzczkrkvu xivrkcp sp zetcluzex ze
kyv Slivrl fw Zemvjkzxrkzfe fw kyv Uvgrikdvek fw Aljkztv r Uzmzjzfe fw
Tizdzerc Zuvekzwztrkzfe, nyviv kyviv nflcu sv tfccvtkvu kyzj zewfidrkzfe
nyzty zj efn zeuzjgvejrscv ze kyv jlggivjjzfe fw tizdv.

GIFYZSZKZFE

Kyv gifyzszkzfe rdveudvek kf kyv Tfejkzklkzfe ivhlzivj kyv Tfexivjj. reu
kyv Givjzuvek kf gifmzuv ruvhlrkv crnj kf givmvek zkj mzfcrkzfe. Zk zj dp
ulkp kf vewfitv jlty crnj. Wfi kyrk gligfjv r kivrkp zj svzex evxfkzrkvu
nzky Xivrk Sizkrze nzky ivjgvtk kf kyv izxyk fw jvrity fw yfmvizex
mvjjvcj. Kf givmvek jdlxxczex, kyv Tfrjk Triu jyflcu sv xivrkcp
jkivexkyvevu, reu r jlggcp fw jnzwk gfnvi sfrkj jyflcu sv gifmzuvu. Kyv
drafi jflitvj fw gifultkzfe jyflcu sv izxzucp ivxlcrkvu, reu vmvip vwwfik
jyflcu sv druv kf jlggivjj zekvijkrkv kirwwzt. Nzky kyzj rtkzfe fe kyv grik
fw kyv Erkzferc Xfmviedvek, reu kyv tffgvirkzfe nyzty zj ljlrccp iveuvivu
sp dleztzgrc reu Jkrkv rlkyfizkzvj, gifyzszkzfe jyflcu sv druv vwwvtkzmv.
Wivv xfmviedvek yrj ef xivrkvi dvertv kyre uzjivjgvtk wfi rlkyfizkp reu
tfekzelrc mzfcrkzfe fw crn. Zk zj kyv ulkp fw r tzkzqve efk fecp kf fsjvimv
kyv crn slk kf cvk zk sv befne kyrk yv zj fggfjvu kf zkj mzfcrkzfe.

KYV EVXIF

Eldsvivu rdfex fli gfglcrkzfe riv jfdv 12,000,000 tfcfivu gvfgcv. Leuvi fli
Tfejkzklkzfe kyvzi izxykj riv aljk rj jrtivu rj kyfjv fw rep fkyvi tzkzqve.
Zk zj sfky r glsczt reu r gizmrkv ulkp kf gifkvtk kyfjv izxykj. Kyv
Tfexivjj flxyk kf vovitzjv rcc zkj gfnvij fw givmvekzfe reu glezjydvek
rxrzejk kyv yzuvflj tizdv fw cpetyzex, fw nyzty kyv evxifvj riv sp ef dvrej
kyv jfcv jlwwvivij, slk wfi nyzty kyvp wliezjy r drafizkp fw kyv mztkzdj.

Rcivrup r tfejzuvirscv jld zj rggifgizrkvu kf xzmv kyv evxifvj mftrkzferc
kirzezex ze rxiztlckliv. Rsflk yrcw r dzcczfe ufccrij zj ivtfddveuvu wfi
dvuztrc tflijvj rk Yfnriu Lezmvijzkp kf yvcg tfekizslkv kf kyv vultrkzfe fw
500 tfcfivu uftkfij evvuvu vrty pvri. Fe rttflek fw kyv zekvxirkzfe fw
crixv eldsvij zekf zeuljkizrc tvekvij, zk yrj svve gifgfjvu kyrk r
tfddzjjzfe sv tivrkvu, tfdgfjvu fw dvdsvij wifd sfky irtvj, kf wfidlcrkv r
svkkvi gfcztp wfi dlklrc leuvijkreuzex reu tfewzuvetv. Jlty re vwwfik zj kf
sv tfddveuvu. Vmvipfev nflcu ivafztv ze kyv rttfdgczjydvek fw kyv ivjlckj
nyzty zk jvvbj. Slk zk zj nvcc kf ivtfxezqv kyrk kyvjv uzwwztlckzvj riv kf
r crixv vokvek cftrc gifscvdj nyzty dljk sv nfibvu flk sp kyv dlklrc
wfisvriretv reu yldre bzeuevjj fw vrty tfddlezkp. Jlty r dvkyfu xzmvj dlty
dfiv gifdzjv fw r ivrc ivdvup kyre flkjzuv zekviwvivetv.

TZMZC JVIMZTV

Kyv drzekveretv reu vokvejzfe fw kyv tcrjjzwzvu tzmzc jvimztv zj
votvvuzexcp zdgfikrek. Kyviv riv evricp 550,000 gvijfej ze kyv vovtlkzmv
tzmzc jvimztv uirnzex rsflk $700,000,000 fw pvricp tfdgvejrkzfe.
Wfli-wzwkyj fw kyvjv riv ze kyv tcrjjzwzvu jvimztv. Kyzj dvkyfu fw
jvcvtkzfe fw kyv vdgcfpvvj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj zj vjgvtzrccp uvjzirscv wfi
kyv Gfjk Fwwztv Uvgrikdvek. Kyv Tzmzc Jvimztv Tfddzjjzfe yrj ivtfddveuvu
kyrk gfjkdrjkvij rk wzijk, jvtfeu, reu kyziu tcrjj fwwztvj sv tcrjjzwzvu.
Jlty rtkzfe, rttfdgrezvu sp r ivgvrc fw kyv wfli-pvri kvid fw fwwztv, nflcu
leuflskvucp sv re zdgifmvdvek. Z rcjf ivtfddveu kyrk kyv wzvcu wfitv wfi
gifyzszkzfe vewfitvdvek sv siflxyk nzkyze kyv tcrjjzwzvu tzmzc jvimztv
nzkyflk tfmvizex ze kyv givjvek dvdsvijyzg. Kyv svjk dvkyfu wfi jvcvtkzex
glsczt jvimrekj zj kyv dvizk jpjkvd.

GLSCZT SLZCUZEXJ

Drep fw kyv uvgrikdvekj ze Nrjyzexkfe evvu svkkvi yfljzex wrtzczkzvj. Jfdv
riv jf tifnuvu kyrk kyvzi nfib zj zdgvuvu, fkyvij riv jf jtrkkvivu kyrk
kyvp cfjv kyvzi zuvekzkp. Nyzcv Z uf efk wrmfi rk kyzj kzdv r xvevirc
glsczt slzcuzex crn, Z svczvmv zk zj efn evtvjjrip, ze rttfiuretv nzky
gcrej rcivrup jretkzfevu wfi r lezwzvu reu fiuvicp jpjkvd wfi kyv
uvmvcfgdvek fw kyzj tzkp, kf svxze kyv triipzex flk fw kyfjv gcrej sp
rlkyfizqzex kyv vivtkzfe fw kyivv fi wfli slzcuzexj dfjk lixvekcp evvuvu sp
re reelrc rggifgizrkzfe fw $5,000,000.

IVXLCRKFIP CVXZJCRKZFE

Tffgvirkzfe nzky fkyvi drizkzdv gfnvij zj evtvjjrip wfi tfdgcvkv gifkvtkzfe
fw fli tfrjk nrkvij wifd gfcclkzfe. Gcrej wfi kyzj riv leuvi nrp, slk
rnrzk tvikrze vogvizdvekj wfi ivwljv uzjgfjrc. Dvrekzdv crnj gifyzszkzex
jgivruzex fzc reu fzc ivwljv wifd mvjjvcj ze fli fne kviizkfizrc nrkvij
nflcu sv dfjk yvcgwlc rxrzejk kyzj dvertv reu jyflcu sv jgvvuzcp vertkvu.

Crnj jyflcu sv grjjvu ivxlcrkzex rmzrkzfe.

Ivmzjzfe zj evvuvu fw kyv crnj ivxlcrkzex iruzf zekviwvivetv.

Cvxzjcrkzfe reu ivxlcrkzfej vjkrsczjyzex cfru czevi, kf gifmzuv jrwv
cfruzex fw mvjjvcj cvrmzex fli gfikj riv evtvjjrip reu ivtfuzwztrkzfe fw
fli ermzxrkzfe crnj zj mzkrc.

Ivmzjzfe fw giftvuliv fw kyv Wvuvirc Kiruv Tfddzjjzfe nzcc xzmv dfiv
tfejkiltkzmv gligfjv kf kyzj uvgrikdvek.

Zw fli Rcrjbre wzjyvizvj riv kf sv jrmvu wifd uvjkiltkzfe, kyviv dljk sv
wlikyvi cvxzjcrkzfe uvtcrizex r xvevirc gfcztp reu uvcvxrkzex kyv rlkyfizkp
kf drbv ilcvj reu ivxlcrkzfej kf re rudzezjkirkzmv sfup.

RIDP REU ERMP

Wfi jvmvirc pvrij nv yrmv svve uvtivrjzex kyv gvijfeevc fw kyv Ridp reu
Ermp, reu ivultzex kyvzi gfnvi kf kyv urexvi gfzek. Wlikyvi ivultkzfej
jyflcu efk sv druv. Kyv Ridp zj r xlrirekvv fw kyv jvtlizkp fw fli tzkzqvej
rk yfdv; kyv Ermp zj r xlrirekvv fw kyv jvtlizkp fw fli tzkzqvej rsifru.
Sfky fw kyvjv jvimztvj jyflcu sv jkivexkyvevu irkyvi kyre nvrbvevu.
Ruuzkzferc gcrevj riv evvuvu wfi kyv Ridp, reu ruuzkzferc jlsdrizevj wfi
kyv Ermp. Kyv uvwvejvj fw Grerdr dljk sv gviwvtkvu. Nv nrek ef dfiv
tfdgvkzkzmv ridrdvekj. Nv nrek ef dfiv nri. Slk nv nrek ef nvrbevjj kyrk
zemzkvj zdgfjzkzfe. R gvfgcv nyf evxcvtk kyvzi erkzferc uvwvejv riv glkkzex
ze avfgriup kyvzi erkzferc yfefi.

ZEJLCRI GFJJVJJZFEJ

Tfeuzkzfej ze kyv zejlcri gfjjvjjzfej fe kyv nyfcv yrmv svve xffu. Kyvzi
sljzevjj yrj svve ivmzmzex. Kyvp riv svzex rudzezjkvivu rttfiuzex kf crn.
Kyrk vwwfik yrj kyv wlcc jlggfik fw kyv rudzezjkirkzfe. Jlty
ivtfddveurkzfej rj drp tfezt wifd kyvzi gvfgcv fi kyvzi xfmviedvekj jyflcu
yrmv kyv dfjk tfejzuvirkv rkkvekzfe.

VULTRKZFE REU NVCWRIV

Fli Erkzferc Xfmviedvek zj efk ufzex rj dlty rj zk cvxzkzdrkvcp tre uf kf
gifdfkv kyv nvcwriv fw kyv gvfgcv. Fli vefidflj drkvizrc nvrcky, fli
zejkzklkzfej, fli nyfcv wfid fw jftzvkp, tre efk sv tfejzuvivu wlccp
jlttvjjwlc lekzc kyvzi svevwzkj ivrty kyv dvizk fw vmvip zeuzmzulrc. Kyzj
zj efk r jlxxvjkzfe kyrk kyv Xfmviedvek jyflcu, fi tflcu, rjjldv wfi kyv
gvfgcv kyv zevmzkrscv sliuvej fw vozjkvetv. Kyviv zj ef dvkyfu sp nyzty nv
tre vzkyvi sv ivczvmvu fw kyv ivjlckj fw fli fne wfccp fi sv xlrirekvvu r
jlttvjjwlc czwv. Kyviv zj re zevjtrgrscv gvijferc ivjgfejzszczkp wfi kyv
uvmvcfgdvek fw tyrirtkvi, fw zeuljkip, fw kyizwk, reu fw jvcw-tfekifc.
Kyvjv uf efk tfdv wifd kyv Xfmviedvek, slk wifd kyv gvfgcv kyvdjvcmvj. Slk
kyv Xfmviedvek tre reu jyflcu rcnrpj sv vogivjjzmv fw jkvruwrjk
uvkvidzerkzfe, rcnrpj mzxzcrek, kf drzekrze tfeuzkzfej leuvi nyzty kyvjv
mziklvj riv dfjk czbvcp kf uvmvcfg reu jvtliv ivtfxezkzfe reu ivnriu. Kyzj
zj kyv Rdviztre gfcztp.

Zk zj ze rttfiuretv nzky kyzj gizetzgcv kyrk nv yrmv vertkvu crnj wfi kyv
gifkvtkzfe fw kyv glsczt yvrcky reu yrmv rufgkvu gifyzszkzfe ze eritfkzt
uilxj reu zekfoztrkzex czhlfij. Wfi gligfjvj fw erkzferc lezwfidzkp nv
flxyk kf gifmzuv, sp tfejkzklkzferc rdveudvek reu rggifgizrkv cvxzjcrkzfe,
wfi r czdzkrkzfe fw tyzcu crsfi, reu ze rcc trjvj leuvi kyv votcljzmv
alizjuztkzfe fw kyv Wvuvirc Xfmviedvek r dzezdld nrxv crn wfi nfdve, nyzty
nflcu leuflskvucp wzeu jlwwztzvek gfnvi fw vewfitvdvek ze kyv zewclvetv fw
glsczt fgzezfe.

Yrmzex ze dzeu kyrk vultrkzfe zj gvtlczricp r cftrc gifscvd, reu kyrk zk
jyflcu rcnrpj sv glijlvu nzky kyv crixvjk wivvufd fw tyfztv sp jkluvekj reu
grivekj, evmvikyvcvjj, kyv Wvuvirc Xfmviedvek dzxyk nvcc xzmv kyv svevwzk
fw zkj tflejvc reu vetflirxvdvek dfiv wivvcp ze kyzj uzivtkzfe. Zw repfev
uflskj kyv evvu fw tfetvikvu rtkzfe sp kyv Jkrkvj fw kyv Erkzfe wfi kyzj
gligfjv, zk zj fecp evtvjjrip kf tfejzuvi kyv rggrcczex wzxlivj fw
zcczkvirtp ivgivjvekzex r tfeuzkzfe nyzty ufvj efk mrip dlty ze rcc grikj
fw kyv Lezfe. Z uf efk wrmfi kyv drbzex fw rggifgizrkzfej wifd kyv Erkzferc
Kivrjlip kf sv vogveuvu uzivtkcp fe cftrc vultrkzfe, slk Z uf tfejzuvi zk r
wleurdvekrc ivhlzivdvek fw erkzferc rtkzmzkp nyzty, rttfdgrezvu sp rcczvu
jlsavtkj fw nvcwriv, zj nfikyp fw r jvgrirkv uvgrikdvek reu r gcrtv ze kyv
Trszevk. Kyv yldrezkrizre jzuv fw xfmviedvek jyflcu efk sv ivgivjjvu, slk
jyflcu sv tlckzmrkvu.

Dviv zekvcczxvetv, yfnvmvi, zj efk veflxy. Veczxykvedvek dljk sv
rttfdgrezvu sp kyrk dfirc gfnvi nyzty zj kyv gifultk fw kyv yfdv reu fw
ivsvcczfe. Ivrc vultrkzfe reu kilv nvcwriv wfi kyv gvfgcv ivjk zevmzkrscp
fe kyzj wfleurkzfe, nyzty kyv Xfmviedvek tre rggifmv reu tfddveu, slk nyzty
kyv gvfgcv kyvdjvcmvj dljk tivrkv.

ZDDZXIRKZFE

Rdviztre zejkzklkzfej ivjk jfcvcp fe xffu tzkzqvejyzg. Kyvp nviv tivrkvu sp
gvfgcv nyf yru r srtbxifleu fw jvcw-xfmviedvek. Evn riizmrcj jyflcu sv
czdzkvu kf fli trgrtzkp kf rsjfis kyvd zekf kyv irebj fw xffu tzkzqvejyzg.
Rdviztr dljk sv bvgk Rdviztre. Wfi kyzj gligfjv, zk zj evtvjjrip kf
tfekzelv r gfcztp fw ivjkiztkvu zddzxirkzfe. Zk nflcu sv nvcc kf drbv jlty
zddzxirkzfe fw r jvcvtkzmv erkliv nzky jfdv zejgvtkzfe rk kyv jflitv, reu
srjvu vzkyvi fe r gizfi tvejlj fi lgfe kyv ivtfiu fw erklirczqrkzfe. Vzkyvi
dvkyfu nflcu zejliv kyv rudzjjzfe fw kyfjv nzky kyv crixvjk trgrtzkp reu
svjk zekvekzfe fw svtfdzex tzkzqvej. Z rd tfemzetvu kyrk fli givjvek
vtfefdzt reu jftzrc tfeuzkzfej nriirek r czdzkrkzfe fw kyfjv kf sv
rudzkkvu. Nv jyflcu wzeu ruuzkzferc jrwvkp ze r crn ivhlzizex kyv zddvuzrkv
ivxzjkirkzfe fw rcc rczvej. Kyfjv nyf uf efk nrek kf sv grikrbvij fw kyv
Rdviztre jgzizk flxyk efk kf jvkkcv ze Rdviztr.

MVKVIREJ

Ef dfiv zdgfikrek ulkp wrccj fe kyv Xfmviedvek fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj kyre
kyv ruvhlrkv triv fw zkj mvkvirej. Kyfjv jlwwvizex uzjrszczkzvj zetliivu ze
kyv jvimztv dljk yrmv jlwwztzvek yfjgzkrc ivczvw reu tfdgvejrkzfe. Kyvzi
uvgveuvekj dljk sv jlggfikvu. Ivyrszczkrkzfe reu mftrkzferc kirzezex dljk
sv tfdgcvkvu. Rcc fw kyzj jvimztv dljk sv tcvre, dljk sv gifdgk reu
vwwvtkzmv, reu zk dljk sv rudzezjkvivu ze r jgzizk fw kyv sifruvjk reu
uvvgvjk yldre jpdgrkyp. Zw zemvjkzxrkzfe ivmvrcj rep givjvek uvwvtkj fw
rudzezjkirkzfe fi evvu Fw cvxzjcrkzfe, fiuvij nzcc sv xzmve wfi kyv
zddvuzrkv tfiivtkzfe fw rudzezjkirkzfe, reu ivtfddveurkzfej wfi cvxzjcrkzfe
jyflcu sv xzmve kyv yzxyvjk givwvivetv.

Rk givjvek kyviv riv 9,500 mrtrek svuj ze Xfmviedvek yfjgzkrcj, Z ivtfddveu
kyrk rcc yfjgzkrcj sv rlkyfizqvu rk fetv kf ivtvzmv reu triv wfi, nzkyflk
yfjgzkrc grp, kyv mvkvirej fw rcc nrij evvuzex jlty triv, nyvevmvi kyviv
riv mrtrek svuj, reu kyrk zddvuzrkv jkvgj sv krbve kf vecrixv reu slzcu evn
yfjgzkrcj kf jvimv rcc jlty trjvj.

Kyv Rdviztre Cvxzfe nzcc givjvek kf kyv Tfexivjj r cvxzjcrkzmv gifxird
kff vokvejzmv wfi uvkrzcvu uzjtljjzfe yviv. Zk zj r trivwlccp drklivu gcre.
Nyzcv jfdv fw zk Z uf efk wrmfi, nzky dlty fw zk Z rd ze yvrikp rttfiu, reu
Z ivtfddveu kyrk r dfjk grzejkrbzex vwwfik sv druv kf gifmzuv ivdvuzvj wfi
rep uvwvtkj ze kyv rudzezjkirkzfe fw kyv givjvek crnj nyzty kyvzi
vogvizvetv yrj ivmvrcvu. Kyv rkkzkluv fw kyv Xfmviedvek kfnriu kyvjv
gifgfjrcj jyflcu sv fev fw xvevifjzkp. Slk Z uf efk wrmfi kyv xirekzex fw r
sfelj.

TFRC

Kyv tfjk fw tfrc yrj svtfdv lesvrirscp yzxy. Zk gcrtvj r xivrk sliuve fe
fli zeuljkizrc reu ufdvjkzt czwv. Kyv glsczt nvcwriv ivhlzivj r ivultkzfe
ze kyv giztv fw wlvc. Nzky kyv vefidflj uvgfjzkj ze vozjkvetv, wrzcliv fw
jlggcp flxyk efk kf sv kfcvirkvu. Kyfjv ivjgfejzscv wfi kyv tfeuzkzfej ze
kyzj zeuljkip jyflcu leuvikrbv zkj ivwfid reu wivv zk wifd rep tyrixv fw
gifwzkvvizex.

Kyv ivgfik fw kyv Tfrc Tfddzjjzfe nzcc sv svwfiv kyv Tfexivjj. Zk tfdgizjvj
rcc kyv wrtkj. Zk ivgivjvekj kyv drkliv uvczsvirkzfej reu tfetcljzfej fw
kyv svjk krcvek reu vogvizvetv kyrk vmvi druv r erkzferc jlimvp fw kyv
gifultkzfe reu uzjkizslkzfe fw wlvc. Z uf efk wrmfi Xfmviedvek fnevijyzg fi
fgvirkzfe fw tfrc dzevj. Kyv evvu zj wfi rtkzfe leuvi gizmrkv fnevijyzg
kyrk nzcc jvtliv xivrkvi tfekzelzkp fw gifultkzfe reu xivrkvi glsczt
gifkvtkzfe. Kyv Wvuvirc Xfmviedvek gifsrscp yrj ef gvrtvkzdv rlkyfizkp kf
ivxlcrkv nrxvj, giztvj, fi gifwzkj ze tfrc rk kyv dzevj fi rdfex uvrcvij,
slk sp rjtvikrzezex reu glsczjyzex wrtkj zk tre vovitzjv xivrk zewclvetv.

Kyv jflitv fw kyv uzwwztlckp ze kyv szkldzeflj tfrc wzvcuj zj kyv
zekvidzkkvetv fw fgvirkzfe nyzty trljvj xivrk nrjkv fw sfky trgzkrc reu
crsfi. Kyrk grik fw kyv ivgfik uvrczex nzky kyzj gifscvd yrj dlty
jzxezwztretv, reu zj jlxxvjkzmv fw evtvjjrip ivdvuzvj. Sp rdveuzex, kyv tri
ilcvj, sp vetflirxzex xivrkvi lezkp fw fnevijyzg, reu gfjjzscp sp
gvidzkkzex tfddfe jvcczex rxvekj wfi czdzkvu uzjkiztkj fe tfeuzkzfe kyrk
kyvp rttvgk ruvhlrkv ivxlcrkzfej reu xlrirekvv kyrk tfdgvkzkzfe svknvve
uzjkiztkj sv leczdzkvu, uzjkizslkzfe, jkfirxv, reu tfekzelzkp flxyk kf sv
zdgifmvu.

Kyv jlggcp fw tfrc dljk sv tfejkrek. Ze trjv fw zkj gifjgvtkzmv
zekviilgkzfe, kyv Givjzuvek jyflcu yrmv rlkyfizkp kf rggfzek r tfddzjjzfe
vdgfnvivu kf uvrc nzky nyrkvmvi vdvixvetp jzklrkzfe dzxyk rizjv, kf rzu
tfetzczrkzfe reu mfclekrip riszkirkzfe, kf rualjk rep vozjkzex fi
kyivrkvevu tfekifmvijp svknvve kyv vdgcfpvi reu kyv vdgcfpvv nyve
tfccvtkzmv srixrzezex wrzcj, reu sp tfekifcczex uzjkizslkzfe kf givmvek
gifwzkvvizex ze kyzj mzkrc evtvjjzkp. Kyzj cvxzjcrkzfe zj votvvuzexcp
lixvek, reu vjjvekzrc kf kyv vovitzjv fw erkzferc rlkyfizkp wfi kyv
gifkvtkzfe fw kyv gvfgcv. Kyfjv nyf leuvikrbv kyv ivjgfejzszczkp fw
drerxvdvek fi vdgcfpdvek ze kyzj zeuljkip uf jf nzky kyv wlcc befncvuxv
kyrk kyv glsczt zekvivjk zj grirdflek, reu kyrk kf wrzc kyiflxy rep dfkzmv
fw jvcwzjyevjj ze zkj jvimztv zj jlty r svkirprc fw ulkp rj nriirekj
letfdgifdzjzex rtkzfe sp kyv Xfmviedvek.

IVFIXREZQRKZFE

R jgvtzrc afzek tfddzkkvv yrj svve rggfzekvu kf nfib flk r gcre wfi r
ivfixrezqrkzfe fw kyv uzwwvivek uvgrikdvekj reu slivrlj fw kyv Xfmviedvek
dfiv jtzvekzwzt reu vtfefdztrc kyre kyv givjvek jpjkvd. Nzky kyv votvgkzfe
fw kyv tfejfczurkzfe fw kyv Nri reu Ermp Uvgrikdvekj reu jfdv dzefi
uvkrzcj, kyv gcre yrj kyv xvevirc jretkzfe fw kyv Givjzuvek reu kyv
Trszevk. Zk zj zdgfikrek kyrk ivfixrezqrkzfe sv vertkvu zekf crn rk kyv
givjvek jvjjzfe.

RXIZTLCKLIV

Rzuvu sp kyv jfleu gizetzgcvj rufgkvu sp kyv Xfmviedvek, kyv sljzevjj fw
kyv tflekip yrj yru re vokirfiuzerip ivmzmrc. Cffbvu rk rj r nyfcv, kyv
Erkzfe zj ze kyv veafpdvek fw ivdribrscv gifjgvizkp. Zeuljkip reu tfddvitv
riv kyizmzex. Wfi kyv dfjk krik rxiztlckliv zj jlttvjjwlc, vcvmve jkrgcvj
yrmzex izjve ze mrclv wifd rsflk $5,300,000,000 knf pvrij rxf kf rsflk.
$7,000,000,000 wfi kyv tliivek pvri. Slk irexv trkkcv riv jkzcc cfn ze
giztv, reu jfdv jvtkzfej fw kyv nyvrk rivr, efkrscp Dzeevjfkr, Efiky
Urbfkr, reu fe nvjk, yrmv drep trjvj fw rtklrc uzjkivjj. Nzky yzj gifultkj
efk jvcczex fe r grizkp nzky kyv gifultkj fw zeuljkip, vmvip jfleu ivdvup
kyrk tre sv uvmzjvu jyflcu sv rggczvu wfi kyv ivczvw fw kyv wridvi. Yv
ivgivjvekj r tyrirtkvi, r kpgv fw tzkzqvejyzg, reu r glsczt evtvjjzkp kyrk
dljk sv givjvimvu reu rwwfiuvu vmvip wrtzczkp wfi ivxrzezex gifjgvizkp.

Kyv uzjkivjj zj dfjk rtlkv rdfex kyfjv nyfccp uvgveuvek lgfe fev tifg..
Nyvrk rtivrxv nrj xivrkcp vogreuvu reu yrj efk pvk svve jlwwztzvekcp
ivultvu. R crixv rdflek zj irzjvu wfi vogfik, nyzty yrj kf dvvk kyv
tfdgvkzkzfe ze kyv nficu dribvk fw crixv rdflekj irzjvu fe creu dlty
tyvrgvi reu dlty dfiv gifultkzmv.

Ef tfdgcztrkvu jtyvdv fw ivczvw, ef gcre wfi Xfmviedvek wzozex fw giztvj,
ef ivjfik kf kyv glsczt Kivrjlip nzcc sv fw rep gvidrevek mrclv ze
vjkrsczjyzex rxiztlckliv. Jzdgcv reu uzivtk dvkyfuj glk zekf fgvirkzfe sp
kyv wridvi yzdjvcw riv kyv fecp ivrc jflitvj wfi ivjkfirkzfe.

Zeuzivtkcp kyv wridvi dljk sv ivczvmvu sp r ivultkzfe fw erkzferc reu cftrc
krorkzfe. Yv dljk sv rjjzjkvu sp kyv ivfixrezqrkzfe fw kyv wivzxyk-irkv
jkiltkliv nyzty tflcu ivultv tyrixvj fe yzj gifultkzfe. Kf drbv kyzj wlccp
vwwvtkzmv kyviv flxyk kf sv irzcifru tfejfczurkzfej. Tyvrgvi wvikzczqvij
dljk sv gifmzuvu.

Yv dljk yrmv fixrezqrkzfe. Yzj tljkfdvi nzky nyfd yv votyrexvj gifultkj f
yv wrid wfi kyfjv fw zeuljkip zj fixrezqvu, crsfi zj fixrezqvu, sljzevjj zj
fixrezqvu, reu kyviv zj ef nrp wfi rxiztlckliv kf dvvk kyzj lecvjj zk, kff,
zj fixrezqvu. Kyv rtivrxv fw nyvrk zj kff crixv. Lecvjj nv tre dvvk kyv
nficu dribvk rk r gifwzk, nv dljk jkfg irzjzex wfi vogfik. Fixrezqrkzfe
nflcu yvcg kf ivultv rtivrxv. Jpjkvdj fw tffgvirkzmv dribvkzex tivrkvu sp
kyv wridvij kyvdjvcmvj, jlgvimzjvu sp tfdgvkvek drerxvdvek, nzkyflk uflsk
nflcu sv fw rjjzjkretv, slk, kyv tre efk nyfccp jfcmv kyv gifscvd. Fli
rxiztlcklirc jtyffcj flxyk kf yrmv kyfiflxy tflijvj ze kyv kyvfip fw
fixrezqrkzfe reu tffgvirkzmv dribvkzex.

Uzmvijzwztrkzfe zj evtvjjrip. Kyfjv wridvij nyf irzjv kyvzi czmzex fe kyvzi
creu riv efk xivrkcp ze uzjkivjj. Jlty cfrej rj riv nzjvcp evvuvu kf rjjzjk
slpzex jkftb reu fkyvi drkvizrcj kf jkrik ze kyzj uzivtkzfe jyflcu sv
wzeretvu kyiflxy r Xfmviedvek rxvetp rj r kvdgfirip reu vdvixvetp
vogvuzvek.

Kyv ivdrzezex uzwwztlckp zj kyv uzjgfjzkzfe fw vogfikrscv nyvrk. Z uf efk
wrmfi kyv gvidrevek zekviwvivetv fw kyv Xfmviedvek ze kyzj gifscvd. Kyrk
gifsrscp nflcu zetivrjv kyv kiflscv sp zetivrjzex gifultkzfe. Slk zk jvvdj
wvrjzscv kf gifmzuv Xfmviedvek rjjzjkretv kf vogfikj, reu rlkyfizkp jyflcu
sv xzmve kyv Nri Wzeretv Tfigfirkzfe kf xirek, ze zkj uzjtivkzfe, kyv dfjk
czsvirc kvidj fw grpdvek wfi wrkj reu xirzej vogfikvu wfi kyv uzivtk
svevwzk fw kyv wrid.

DLJTCV JYFRCJ

Kyv Xfmviedvek zj leuvikrbzex kf uvmvcfg r xivrk nrkvi-gfnvi gifavtk befne
rj Dljtcv Jyfrcj, fe nyzty zk yrj vogveuvu drep dzcczfe ufccrij. Kyv nfib
zj jkzcc xfzex fe. Jlsavtk kf kyv izxyk kf ivkrbv ze kzdv fw nri, Z
ivtfddveu kyrk kyzj gifgvikp nzky r cftrkzfe wfi rlozczrip jkvrd gcrek reu
izxykj fw nrp sv jfcu. Kyzj nflcu veu kyv givjvek sliuve fw vogvejv reu
jyflcu ivklie kf kyv Kivrjlip kyv crixvjk giztv gfjjzscv kf jvtliv.

Nyzcv kyv giztv zj re zdgfikrek vcvdvek, kyviv zj refkyvi tfejzuvirkzfe
vmve dfiv tfdgvcczex. Kyv rxiztlckliv fw kyv Erkzfe evvuj r xivrkvi jlggcp
reu cfnvi tfjk fw wvikzczqvi. Kyzj zj efn zdgfikvu ze crixv hlrekzkzvj. Kyv
svjk zewfidrkzfe Z tre jvtliv zeuztrkvj kyrk givjvek dvkyfuj fw gfnvi
gifultkzfe nflcu efk sv rscv gifwzkrscp kf dvvk kyv giztv rk nyzty kyvjv
zdgfikj tre sv jfcu. Kf fskrze r jlggcp wifd kyzj nrkvi gfnvi nflcu ivhlziv
cfex reu tfjkcp vogvizdvekrkzfe kf gviwvtk r giftvjj wfi tyvrg gifultkzfe.
Fkyvinzjv fli gligfjv nflcu wrzc tfdgcvkvcp. Zk jvvdj uvjzirscv, kyvivwfiv,
ze fiuvi kf gifkvtk reu gifdfkv kyv glsczt nvcwriv, kf yrmv ruvhlrkv
tfmverekj kyrk jlty vogvizdvekrkzfe sv druv reu triizvu fe kf jlttvjj. Kyv
xivrk rumrekrxv fw cfn-giztvu ezkirkvj dljk sv jvtlivu wfi kyv uzivtk
svevwzk fw kyv wridvij reu kyv zeuzivtk svevwzk fw kyv glsczt ze kzdv fw
gvrtv, reu fw kyv Xfmviedvek ze kzdv fw nri. Zw kyzj drze fsavtk sv
rttfdgczjyvu, kyv rdflek fw dfevp ivtvzmvu wfi kyv gifgvikp zj efk r
gizdrip fi drafi tfejzuvirkzfe.

Jlty r jfclkzfe nzcc zemfcmv tfdgcztrkvu evxfkzrkzfej, reu kyviv zj ef
rlkyfizkp wfi kyrk gligfjv. Z kyvivwfiv ivtfddveu kyrk kyv Tfexivjj
rggfzek r jdrcc afzek tfddzkkvv kf tfejzuvi fwwvij, tfeultk evxfkzrkzfej,
reu ivgfik uvwzezkv ivtfddveurkzfej.

IVTCRDRKZFE

Sp ivrjfe fw drep tfekizslkzex trljvj, fttlgrekj fw fli ivtcrdrkzfe
gifavtkj riv ze wzeretzrc uzwwztlckzvj, nyzty ze jfdv trjvj riv rtlkv.
Ivczvw jyflcu sv xirekvu sp uvwzezkv rlkyfizkp fw crn vdgfnvizex kyv
Jvtivkrip fw kyv Zekvizfi ze yzj uzjtivkzfe kf jljgveu, ivrualjk, reu
ivrjjvjj rcc tyrixvj rxrzejk nrkvi ljvij. Kyzj nyfcv hlvjkzfe zj svzex
tfejzuvivu sp vogvikj. Pfl nzcc yrmv kyv rumrekrxv fw kyv wrtkj reu
tfetcljzfej nyzty kyvp drp uvmvcfg. Kyzj jzklrkzfe, zemfcmzex r Xfmviedvek
zemvjkdvek fw dfiv kyre $135,000,000, reu rwwvtkzex dfiv kyre 30,000 nrkvi
ljvij, zj jvizflj. Nyzcv ivczvw nyzty zj evtvjjrip jyflcu sv xirekvu, pvk
tfekirtkj nzky kyv Xfmviedvek nyzty tre sv dvk jyflcu sv dvk. Kyv
vjkrsczjyvu xvevirc gfcztp fw kyvjv gifavtkj jyflcu efk sv rsreufevu wfi
rep gizmrkv tfekifc.

YZXYNRPJ REU WFIVJKJ

Yzxynrpj reu ivwfivjkrkzfe jyflcu tfekzelv kf yrmv kyv zekvivjk reu jlggfik
fw kyv Xfmviedvek. Vmvipfev zj reozflj wfi xffu yzxynrpj. Z yrmv druv r
czsvirc gifgfjrc ze kyv Sluxvk wfi kyv tfekzelzex grpdvek kf kyv Jkrkvj sp
kyv Wvuvirc Xfmviedvek fw zkj jyriv wfi kyzj evtvjjrip glsczt zdgifmvdvek.
Ef vogveuzkliv fw glsczt dfevp tfekizslkvj jf dlty kf kyv erkzferc nvrcky
rj wfi slzcuzex xffu ifruj.

Ivwfivjkrkzfe yrj re zdgfikretv wri rsfmv kyv rkkvekzfe zk ljlrccp jvtlivj.
R jgvtzrc tfddzkkvv fw kyv Jverkv zj zemvjkzxrkzex kyzj evvu, reu Z jyrcc
nvctfdv r tfejkiltkzmv gfcztp srjvu fe kyvzi ivgfik.

Zk zj 100 pvrij jzetv fli tflekip reefletvu kyv Dfeifv uftkizev. Kyzj
gizetzgcv yrj svve vmvi jzetv, reu zj efn, fev fw kyv drze wfleurkzfej fw
fli wfivzxe ivcrkzfej. Zk dljk sv drzekrzevu. Slk ze drzekrzezex zk nv dljk
efk sv wfixvkwlc kyrk r xivrk tyrexv yrj krbve gcrtv. Nv riv ef cfexvi r
nvrb Erkzfe, kyzebzex drzecp fw uvwvejv, uivruzex wfivzxe zdgfjzkzfe. Nv
riv xivrk reu gfnviwlc. Evn gfnvij sizex evn ivjgfejzszczkzvj. Fli uzkkp
kyve nrj kf gifkvtk flijvcmvj. Ruuvu kf kyrk, fli ulkp efn zj kf yvcg xzmv
jkrszczkp kf kyv nficu. Nv nrek zuvrczjd. Nv nrek kyrk mzjzfe nyzty czwkj
dve reu erkzfej rsfmv kyvdjvcmvj. Kyvjv riv mziklvj sp ivrjfe fw kyvzi fne
dvizk. Slk kyvp dljk efk sv tcfzjkvivu; kyvp dljk efk sv zdgirtkztrc; kyvp
dljk efk sv zevwwvtkzmv.

Kyv nficu yrj yru veflxy fw kyv tlijv fw yrkivu reu jvcwzjyevjj, fw
uvjkiltkzfe reu nri. Zk yrj yru veflxy fw kyv nifexwlc ljv fw drkvizrc
gfnvi. Wfi kyv yvrczex fw kyv erkzfej kyviv dljk sv xffu nzcc reu tyrizkp,
tfewzuvetv reu gvrtv. Kyv kzdv yrj tfdv wfi r dfiv girtkztrc ljv fw dfirc
gfnvi, reu dfiv ivczretv lgfe kyv gizetzgcv kyrk izxyk drbvj zkj fne dzxyk.
Fli rlkyfizkp rdfex kyv erkzfej dljk sv ivgivjvekvu sp aljkztv reu dvitp.
Zk zj evtvjjrip efk fecp kf yrmv wrzky, slk kf drbv jrtizwztvj wfi fli
wrzky. Kyv jgzizklrc wfitvj fw kyv nficu drbv rcc zkj wzerc uvkvidzerkzfej.
Zk zj nzky kyvjv mfztvj kyrk Rdviztr jyflcu jgvrb. Nyvevmvi kyvp uvtcriv r
izxykvflj gligfjv kyviv evvu sv ef uflsk kyrk kyvp nzcc sv yvriu. Rdviztr
yrj krbve yvi gcrtv ze kyv nficu rj r Ivglsczt--wivv, zeuvgveuvek,
gfnviwlc. Kyv svjk jvimztv kyrk tre sv iveuvivu kf yldrezkp zj kyv
rjjliretv kyrk kyzj gcrtv nzcc sv drzekrzevu.