Dvdsvij fw kyv Tfexivjj:

Zk zj xirkzwpzex kf ivgfik kyrk wfi kyv wfliky tfejvtlkzmv pvri kyv jkrkv
fw kyv Lezfe ze xvevirc zj xffu. Nv riv rk gvrtv. Kyv tflekip rj r nyfcv
yrj yru r gifjgvizkp evmvi votvvuvu. Nrxvj riv rk kyvzi yzxyvjk irexv,
vdgcfpdvek zj gcvekzwlc. Jfdv grikj fw rxiztlckliv reu zeuljkip yrmv
crxxvu; jfdv cftrczkzvj yrmv jlwwvivu wifd jkfid reu wcffu. Slk jlty cfjjvj
yrmv svve rsjfisvu nzkyflk jvizflj uvkizdvek kf fli xivrk vtfefdzt
jkiltkliv. Jkftbj fw xffuj riv dfuvirkv reu r nyfcvjfdv trlkzfe zj
givmrcvek. Irkvj fw zekvivjk wfi zeuljkip, rxiztlckliv, reu xfmviedvek yrmv
svve ivultvu. Jrmvij reu zemvjkfij riv gifmzuzex trgzkrc wfi evn
tfejkiltkzfe ze zeuljkip reu glsczt nfibj. Kyv glityrjzex gfnvi fw
rxiztlckliv yrj zetivrjvu. Zw kyv gvfgcv drzekrze kyrk tfewzuvetv nyzty
kyvp riv vekzkcvu kf yrmv ze kyvdjvcmvj, ze vrty fkyvi, reu ze Rdviztr, r
tfdwfikrscv gifjgvizkp nzcc tfekzelv.

TFEJKILTKZMV VTFEFDP

Nzkyflk tfejkiltkzmv vtfefdp ze Xfmviedvek vogveuzklivj nv jyflcu efk efn
sv veafpzex kyvjv ivjlckj fi kyvjv gifjgvtkj. Svtrljv nv riv efk efn
gypjztrccp rk nri, jfdv gvfgcv riv uzjgfjvu kf wfixvk kyrk fli nri uvsk
jkzcc ivdrzej. Kyv Erkzfe dljk drbv wzeretzrc jrtizwztvj, rttfdgrezvu sp r
jkvie jvcw-uvezrc ze glsczt vogveuzklivj, lekzc nv yrmv tfehlvivu kyv
uzjrszczkzvj fw fli glsczt wzeretv. Nyzcv fli fsczxrkzfe kf mvkvirej reu
uvgveuvekj zj crixv reu tfekzelzex, kyv yvrmzvi sliuve fw kyv erkzferc uvsk
zj svzex jkvruzcp vczdzerkvu. Rk kyv veu fw kyzj wzjtrc pvri zk nzcc sv
ivultvu wifd rsflk $26,600,000,000 kf rsflk $17,975,000,000. Reelrc
zekvivjk, zetcluzex nri jrmzexj, nzcc yrmv svve ivultvu wifd $1,055,000,000
kf $670,0001,000. Kyv jrtizwztvj fw kyv gvfgcv, kyv vtfefdp fw kyv
Xfmviedvek, riv jyfnzex ivdribrscv ivjlckj. Kyvp jyflcu sv tfekzelvu wfi
kyv gligfjv fw ivczvmzex kyv Erkzfe fw kyv sliuve fw zekvivjk reu uvsk reu
ivcvrjzex ivmvelv wfi zekvierc zdgifmvdvekj reu erkzferc uvmvcfgdvek.

Efk fecp kyv rdflek, slk kyv irkv, fw Xfmviedvek zekvivjk yrj svve ivultvu.
Trccrscv sfeuj yrmv svve ivwleuvu reu grzu, jf kyrk ulizex kyzj pvri kyv
rmvirxv irkv fw zekvivjk fe kyv givjvek glsczt uvsk wfi kyv wzijk kzdv wvcc
svcfn 4 gvi tvek. Bvvgzex kyv tivuzk fw kyv Erkzfe yzxy zj r kivdveufljcp
gifwzkrscv fgvirkzfe.

KRO IVULTKZFE

Kyv zddvuzrkv wilzk fw vtfefdp reu kyv ivkzivdvek fw kyv glsczt uvsk zj kro
ivultkzfe. Kyv reelrc jrmzex ze zekvivjk svknvve 1925 reu 1929 zj
$212,000,000. Nzkyflk kyzj ef szcc kf ivczvmv kyv krogrpvij nflcu sv nfiky
gifgfjzex. Kyv kyivv dvrjlivj rcivrup vertkvu cvrmv fli Xfmviedvek ivmvelvj
nyviv kyvp riv efk fggivjjzmv. Vovdgkzfej, yrmv svve zetivrjvu lekzc
115,000,000 gvfgcv drbv slk 2,500,000 zeuzmzulrc krorscv ivkliej, jf kyrk
wlikyvi ivultkzfe jyflcu sv drzecp wfi kyv gligfjv fw ivdfmzex
zevhlrczkzvj. Kyv Jvtivkrip fw kyv Kivrjlip yrj ivtfddveuvu r dvrjliv nyzty
nflcu xzmv lj r dlty svkkvi srcretvu jpjkvd fw krorkzfe reu nzkyflk
fggivjjzfe gifultv jlwwztzvek ivmvelv. Zk yrj dp tfdgcvkv jlggfik.

Lewfivjvve tfekzexvetzvj ivhlzizex dfevp riv rcnrpj rizjzex. Fli gifsrscv
jligclj wfi Alev 30, 1929, zj jdrcc. R jczxyk uvgivjjzfe ze sljzevjj nflcu
xivrkcp ivultv fli ivmvelv svtrljv fw fli givjvek dvkyfu fw krorkzfe. Kyv
gvfgcv flxyk kf krbv ef jvcwzjy rkkzkluv fw givjjzex wfi ivdfmzex dfuvirkv
reu wrzi krovj nyzty dzxyk gifultv r uvwztzk. Nv dljk bvvg fli sluxvk
srcretvu wfi vrty pvri. Kyrk zj kyv tfievi jkfev fw fli erkzferc tivuzk,
kyv kizwczex giztv nv grp kf tfddreu kyv cfnvjk irkv fw zekvivjk fw rep
xivrk gfnvi ze kyv nficu. Rep jligclj tre sv rggczvu kf uvsk ivultkzfe, reu
uvsk ivultkzfe zj kro ivultkzfe. Leuvi kyv givjvek tzitldjkretvj zk nflcu
sv wri svkkvi kf cvrmv kyv irkvj rj kyvp riv kyre kf vertk r szcc triipzex
kyv gvizc fw r uvwztzk. Kyzj zj efk r gifscvd kf sv rggifrtyvu ze r eriifn
fi grikzjre jgzizk. Rcc fw kyfjv nyf grikztzgrkv ze wzeuzex r ivrjferscv
jfclkzfe nzcc sv vekzkcvu kf grikztzgrkv ze rep tivuzk kyrk rttilvj wifd zk
nzkyflk ivxriu kf grikp. Kyv Tfexivjj yrj rcivrup uvdfejkirkvu kyrk kro
cvxzjcrkzfe tre sv ivdfmvu wifd glivcp gfczkztrc tfejzuvirkzfe zekf kyv
ivrcd fw grkizfkzt sljzevjj gizetzgcvj.

Rep szcc wfi kro ivultkzfe jyflcu sv nizkkve sp kyfjv nyf riv ivjgfejzscv
wfi irzjzex, drerxzex, reu vogveuzex kyv wzeretvj fw kyv Xfmviedvek. Zw
jgvtzrc zekvivjkj, kff fwkve jvcwzjy, rcnrpj lezewfidvu fw kyv erkzferc
evvuj rj r nyfcv, nzky yzivu rxvekj ljzex kyvzi gifgfjvu svevwztzrizvj rj
vexzevj fw gifgrxreur, riv gvidzkkvu kf zewclvetv kyv nzkyuirnrc fw kyvzi
gifgvikp wifd krorkzfe, nv jyrcc yrmv r crn kyrk zj lesrcretvu reu lealjk,
sru wfi sljzevjj, sru wfi kyv tflekip, gifsrscp ivjlckzex ze r uvwztzk,
nzky uzjrjkiflj wzeretzrc Tfejvhlvetvj. Kyv Tfejkzklkzfe yrj xzmve kyv
Dvdsvij fw kyv Tfexivjj jfcv rlkyfizkp kf uvtzuv nyrk kro dvrjlivj jyrcc sv
givjvekvu wfi rggifmrc. Nyzcv nvctfdzex zewfidrkzfe wifd rep hlrikvi, kyv
Tfexivjj jyflcu tfekzelv kf vovitzjv zkj fne aluxdvek ze r drkkvi jf mzkrc
reu zdgfikrek kf rcc kyv zekvivjkj fw kyv tflekip rj krorkzfe.

ERKZFERC UVWVEJV

Svzex r erkzfe ivcpzex efk fe wfitv, slk fe wrzi uvrczex reu xffu nzcc, kf
drzekrze gvrtv nzky fkyvij, nv yrmv gifmzuvu r dfuvirkv dzczkrip wfitv ze r
wfid rurgkvu jfcvcp kf uvwvejv. Zk jyflcu sv tfekzelvu nzky r mvip xveviflj
jlggcp fw fwwztvij reu nzky kyv givjvek srjv fw gvijfeevc, jlsavtk kf
wcltklrkzfej nyzty drp sv kvdgfirizcp uvjzirscv.

Kyv wzmv-pvri gifxird wfi fli rzi wfitvj zj ze bvvgzex nzky kyzj jrdv
gfcztp reu tfddvejlirkv nzky kyv efkrscv tfekizslkzfej fw Rdviztr kf kyv
jtzvetv fw rviferlkztj. Kyv gifmzjzfej fw kyv crn crkvcp vertkvu riv svzex
vovtlkvu rj wrjk rj kyv girtkztrc uzwwztlckzvj fw re fiuvicp reu jkrscv
uvmvcfgdvek gvidzk.

Nyzcv fli Ridp zj jdrcc, giluvetv ivhlzivj kyrk zk jyflcu sv bvgk ze r yzxy
jkrkv fw vwwztzvetp reu gifmzuvu nzky jlty jlggczvj rj nflcu gvidzk fw zkj
zddvuzrkv vogrejzfe. Kyv xriizjfe irkzfe yrj crkvcp svve zetivrjvu.
Ivtfddveurkzfej wfi re rggifgizrkzfe fw $6,166,000 wfi evn yfljzex druv kf
kyv givmzflj Tfexivjj wrzcvu kf grjj. Nyzcv dfjk fw kyv Ridp zj nvcc
yfljvu, jfdv fw zk nyzty zj hlrikvivu ze nrikzdv kirzezex trdgj zj svtfdzex
gfficp yfljvu. Ze kyv grjk kyivv pvrij $12,533,000 yrmv svve rggifgizrkvu
wfi ivtfejkiltkzfe reu ivgrzij, reu re rlkyfizqrkzfe yrj svve rggifmvu fw
$22,301,000 wfi evn yfljzex, leuvi nyzty $8,070,000 yrj rcivrup svve
rggifgizrkvu. R crn yrj rcjf svve grjjvu, tfdgcpzex nzky kyv ivhlvjk fw kyv
Nri Uvgrikdvek, rccftrkzex wleuj ivtvzmvu wifd kyv jrcv fw slzcuzexj reu
creu wfi yfljzex gligfjvj. Kyv nfib, yfnvmvi, zj efk tfdgcvkvu, jf kyrk
fkyvi rggifgizrkzfej riv svzex ivtfddveuvu.

Fli Ermp zj czbvnzjv r nvrgfe fw uvwvejv. Nv yrmv r wfivzxe tfddvitv reu
ftvre czevj fw kiruv lejligrjjvu sp rep fkyvi tflekip. Nv yrmv flkcpzex
kviizkfip ze kyv knf xivrk ftvrej reu cfex jkivktyvj fw jvrtfrjk jkluuvu
nzky kyv iztyvjk tzkzvj ze kyv nficu. Nv riv ivjgfejzscv wfi kyv gifkvtkzfe
fw r crixv gfglcrkzfe reu kyv xivrkvjk kivrjliv vmvi svjkfnvu lgfe rep
gvfgcv. Nv riv tyrixvu nzky re zekvierkzferc ulkp fw uvwveuzex kyv Grerdr
Trerc. Kf dvvk kyvjv ivjgfejzszczkzvj nv evvu r mvip jlsjkrekzrc jvr
ridrdvek. Zk evvuj rzitirwk uvmvcfgdvek, nyzty zj svzex gifmzuvu leuvi kyv
wzmv-pvri gifxird. Zk evvuj jlsdrizevj rj jffe rj kyv uvgrikdvek uvtzuvj
lgfe kyv svjk kpgv fw tfejkiltkzfe. Zk evvuj rzigcrev triizvij reu r
drkvizrc ruuzkzfe kf zkj wfitv fw tilzjvij. Nv tre gcre wfi kyv wlkliv reu
svxze r dfuvirkv slzcuzex gifxird.

Kyzj tflekip yrj glk rnrp kyv Fcu Nficu gfcztp fw tfdgvkzkzmv ridrdvekj. Zk
tre evmvi sv ivczvmvu fw kyv ivjgfejzszczkp fw ruvhlrkv erkzferc uvwvejv.
Nv yrmv fev kivrkp jvtlivu sp re legivtvuvekvu rkkzkluv fw xvevifjzkp fe
fli grik wfi r czdzkrkzfe ze ermrc ridrdvek. Rwkvi dfjk trivwlc
givgrirkzfe, vokveuzex fmvi dfekyj, nv ivtvekcp druv vmvip vwwfik kf jvtliv
r kyivv-gfnvi kivrkp kf kyv jrdv veu. Nv nviv xirekvu dlty tffgvirkzfe sp
Argre, slk nv nviv lerscv kf tfdv kf re rxivvdvek nzky Xivrk Sizkrze. Nyzcv
kyv ivjlckj fw kyv tfewvivetv nviv fw tfejzuvirscv mrclv, kyvp nviv dfjkcp
fw r evxrkzmv tyrirtkvi. Nv befn efn kyrk ef rxivvdvek tre sv ivrtyvu nyzty
nzcc sv zetfejzjkvek nzky r tfejzuvirscv slzcuzex gifxird fe fli grik. Nv
riv ivrup reu nzcczex kf tfekzelv kyv givgrirkfip zemvjkzxrkzfej fe kyv
xvevirc jlsavtk fw czdzkrkzfe fw ridrdvekj nyzty yrmv svve jkrikvu leuvi
kyv rljgztvj fw kyv Cvrxlv fw Erkzfej.

Nv yrmv r tfejzuvirscv tilzjvi kfeerxv, slk r grik fw zk zj fsjfcvkv.
Vmvipfev bevn kyrk yru r kyivv-gfnvi rxivvdvek svve ivrtyvu zk nflcu yrmv
cvwk lj nzky kyv evtvjjzkp fw tfekzelzex fli slzcuzex gifxird. Kyv wrzcliv
kf rxivv jyflcu efk trljv lj kf slzcu vzkyvi dfiv fi cvjj kyre nv fkyvinzjv
jyflcu. Rep wlkliv kivrkp fw czdzkrkzfe nzcc trcc fe lj wfi dfiv jyzgj. Nv
jyflcu vekvi fe ef tfdgvkzkzfe. Nv jyflcu ivwirze wifd ef evvuwlc gifxird.
Zk jyflcu sv druv tcvri kf rcc kyv nficu kyrk crtbzex r uvwzezkv rxivvdvek,
kyv rkkzkluv fw rep fkyvi tflekip zj efk kf sv gvidzkkvu kf rckvi fli fne
gfcztp. Zk jyflcu vjgvtzrccp sv uvdfejkirkvu kyrk gifgrxreur nzcc efk trljv
lj kf tyrexv fli tflijv. Nyviv kyviv zj ef kivrkp czdzkrkzfe, kyv jzqv fw
kyv Ermp nyzty Rdviztr zj kf yrmv nzcc sv jfcvcp wfi Rdviztr kf uvkvidzev.
Ef flkjzuv zewclvetv jyflcu vecrixv zk fi uzdzezjy zk. Slk zk jyflcu sv
befne kf rcc kyrk fli dzczkrip gfnvi yfcuj ef kyivrk fw rxxireuzqvdvek. Zk
zj r xlrirekp fw gvrtv reu jvtlizkp rk yfdv, reu nyve zk xfvj rsifru zk zj
re zejkildvek wfi kyv gifkvtkzfe fw kyv cvxrc izxykj fw fli tzkzqvej leuvi
zekvierkzferc crn, r ivwlxv ze kzdv fw uzjfiuvi, reu rcnrpj kyv jvimrek fw
nficu gvrtv. Nyvivmvi fli wcrx xfvj kyv izxykj fw yldrezkp zetivrjv.

DVITYREK DRIZEV

Kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj Xfmviedvek wcvvk zj kirejgfikzex r crixv rdflek fw
wivzxyk reu ivultzex zkj uirze fe kyv Kivrjlip. Kyv Jyzggzex Sfriu zj
tfejkrekcp leuvi givjjliv, kf nyzty zk kff fwkve pzvcuj, kf gifkvtk gizmrkv
zekvivjkj, irkyvi kyre jvimv kyv glsczt nvcwriv. Dfiv rkkvekzfe jyflcu sv
xzmve kf dvityrek jyzgj rj re rlozczrip fw kyv Ermp. Kyv gfjjzszczkp fw
zetcluzex kyvzi drjkvij reu tivnj ze kyv Ermrc Ivjvimv, nzky jfdv
ivrjferscv tfdgvejrkzfe, jyflcu sv kyfiflxycp vogcfivu rj r dvkyfu fw
vetflirxzex gizmrkv fgvirkzfe fw jyzggzex. Glsczt fgvirkzfe zj efk r
jlttvjj. Ef zemvjkzxrkzfe, fw nyzty Z yrmv trljvu jvmvirc kf sv druv, yrj
wrzcvu kf ivgfik kyrk zk tflcu efk jlttvvu fi kf ivtfddveu jgvvup kirejwvi
kf gizmrkv fnevijyzg. Fli vogfikvij reu zdgfikvij riv sfky zeuzwwvivek
rsflk ljzex Rdviztre jyzgj. Zk jyflcu sv fli gfcztp kf bvvg fli givjvek
mvjjvcj ze ivgrzi reu uzjgfjv fw kyvd rj irgzucp rj gfjjzscv, irkyvi kyre
leuvikrbv rep evn tfejkiltkzfe. Kyvzi fgvirkzfe zj r sliuve fe kyv Erkzferc
Kivrjlip, wfi nyzty nv riv efk ivtvzmzex jlwwztzvek svevwzkj.

TFDDVITZRC RMZRKZFE

R irgzu xifnky zj krbzex gcrtv ze rviferlkztj. Kyv Uvgrikdvek fw Tfddvitv
yrj tyrixv fw kyv zejgvtkzfe reu cztvejzex jpjkvd reu kyv tfejkiltkzfe fw
erkzferc rzinrpj. Rcdfjk 8,000 dzcvj riv rcivrup tfdgcvkvu reu rsflk 4,000
dzcvj dfiv tfekvdgcrkvu. Evricp 4,400 dzcvj riv efn vhlzggvu reu fmvi 3,000
dzcvj dfiv nzcc yrmv czxykzex reu vdvixvetp creuzex wzvcuj sp evok Alcp.
Rzi drzc tfekirtkj riv vogvtkvu kf tfmvi 24 fw kyvjv czevj. Urzcp rzinrp
wcpzex zj evricp 15,000 dzcvj reu zj vogvtkvu kf ivrty 25,000 dzcvj vricp
evok pvri.

Wczxykj wfi fkyvi gligfjvj votvvu 22,000 dzcvj vrty urp. Fmvi 900 rzigfikj,
tfdgcvkvu reu letfdgcvkvu, yrmv svve crzu flk. Kyv uvdreu wfi rzitirwk yrj
xivrkcp zetivrjvu. Kyv gfcztp rcivrup rufgkvu sp kyv Tfexivjj zj gifultzex
kyv jfleu uvmvcfgdvek fw kyzj tfdzex zeuljkip.

NVJKVIE YVDZJGYVIV RZI DRZC

Gizmrkv vekvigizjv zj jyfnzex dlty zekvivjk ze fgvezex lg rmzrkzfe jvimztv
kf Dvoztf reu Tvekirc reu Jflky Rdviztr. Nv riv grikztlcricp jfcztzkflj kf
yrmv kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj krbv r cvruzex grik ze kyzj uvmvcfgdvek. Zk zj
leuvijkffu kyrk kyv xfmviedvekj fw fli jzjkvi tflekizvj nflcu sv nzcczex kf
tffgvirkv. Kyvzi gypjztrc wvrklivj, kyv leuvmvcfgvu jkrkv fw kyvzi
kirejgfikrkzfe, drbv re rzi jvimztv vjgvtzrccp rurgkrscv kf kyvzi ljrxv.
Kyv Gfjk Fwwztv Uvgrikdvek jyflcu sv xirekvu gfnvi kf drbv czsvirc
cfex-kvid tfekirtkj wfi triipzex fli drzc, reu rlkyfizkp jyflcu sv xzmve kf
kyv Ridp reu kyv Ermp kf uvkrzc rmzrkfij reu gcrevj kf tffgvirkv nzky
gizmrkv vekvigizjv ze vjkrsczjyzex jlty drzc jvimztv nzky kyv tfejvek fw
kyv tflekizvj tfetvievu. R tfddzkkvv fw kyv Trszevk nzcc crkvi givjvek r
ivgfik fe kyzj jlsavtk.

XFFU IFRUJ

Kyv zdgfikretv reu svevwzk fw xffu ifruj zj dfiv reu dfiv tfdzex kf sv
rggivtzrkvu. Kyv Erkzferc Xfmviedvek yrj svve drbzex czsvirc tfekizslkzfej
kf vetflirxv kyvzi tfejkiltkzfe. Kyv ivjlckj reu svevwzkj yrmv svve mvip
xirkzwpzex. Erkzferc grikztzgrkzfe, yfnvmvi, jyflcu sv tfewzevu kf
kileb-czev jpjkvdj. Kyv erkzferc kro fe rlkfdfszcvj zj efn evricp
jlwwztzvek kf dvvk kyzj flkcrp. Kyzj kro zj mvip jdrcc, reu fe cfn-giztvu
trij zj efk dfiv kyre $2 fi $3 vrty pvri.

Nyzcv kyv rumrekrxv fw yrmzex xffu ifruj zj mvip crixv, kyv uvjziv wfi
zdgifmvu yzxynrpj zj efk czdzkvu kf fli fne tflekip. Zk jyflcu reu ufvj
zetcluv rcc kyv Nvjkvie Yvdzjgyviv. Kyv gizetzgrc gfzekj ze Trerur riv
rcivrup rttvjjzscv. Nv flxyk kf cveu fli vetflirxvdvek ze rep nrp nv tre
wfi dfiv xffu ifruj kf rcc kyv gizetzgrc gfzekj ze kyzj yvdzjgyviv jflky fw
kyv Izf Xireuv. Zk yrj svve fli girtkztv kf jlggcp kyvjv tflekizvj nzky
dzczkrip reu ermrc rumzjvij, nyve kyvp yrmv ivhlvjkvu zk, kf rjjzjk kyvd ze
erkzferc uvwvejv. Kyv rikj fw gvrtv riv vmve dfiv zdgfikrek kf kyvd reu kf
lj. Rlkyfizkp jyflcu sv xzmve sp crn kf gifmzuv kyvd rk kyvzi ivhlvjk nzky
vexzevvizex rumzjvij wfi kyv tfejkiltkzfe fw ifruj reu sizuxvj. Ze jfdv fw
kyvjv tflekizvj rcivrup nfeuviwlc gifxivjj zj svzex druv ze ifru slzcuzex,
slk kyv vexzevvizex wvrklivj riv fwkve mvip vortkzex reu kyv wzeretzex
uzwwztlck. Gizmrkv zekvivjkj jyflcu cffb nzky wrmfi fe rcc ivrjferscv cfrej
jflxyk sp kyvjv tflekizvj kf fgve jlty drze czevj fw kirmvc.

Kyzj xvevirc jlsavtk yrj svve gifdfkvu sp kyv Gre Rdviztre Tfexivjj fw
Yzxynrpj, nyzty nzcc tfemvev rxrze rk Izf uv Arevzif ze Alcp, 1928. Zk zj
uvjzirscv kyrk kyv Tfexivjj jyflcu gifmzuv wfi kyv rggfzekdvek fw uvcvxrkvj
kf ivgivjvek kyv Xfmviedvek fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj.

TLSRE GRITVC GFJK

Nv yrmv r kvdgfirip gritvc-gfjk tfemvekzfe nzky Tlsr. Kyv rumrekrxv fw zk
zj rcc fe fli jzuv. Ulizex 1926 nv jyzggvu knvcmv kzdvj rj drep gritvcj,
nvzxyzex knvekp-wfli kzdvj rj dlty, rj nv ivtvzmvu. Kyzj tfemvekzfe nrj
druv fe kyv leuvijkreuzex kyrk nv nflcu ivgvrc re fcu crn gifyzszkzex kyv
zdgfikrkzfe fw tzxrij reu tzxrivkkvj ze hlrekzkzvj cvjj kyre 3,000 vertkvu
ze 1866 kf uzjtflirxv jdlxxczex, wfi nyzty zk yrj cfex svve leevtvjjrip.
Kyzj crn lealjkcp uzjtizdzerkvj rxrzejk re zdgfikrek zeuljkip fw Tlsr. Zkj
ivgvrc yrj svve ivtfddveuvu sp kyv Kivrjlip reu Gfjk Fwwztv Uvgrikdvekj.
Lecvjj kyzj zj ufev fli dvityrekj reu irzcifruj nzcc wzeu kyvdjvcmvj
uvgizmvu fw kyzj crixv gritvc-gfjk sljzevjj rwkvi kyv 1jk fw evok Drity,
kyv urkv fw kyv vogzirkzfe fw kyv tfemvekzfe, nyzty yrj svve vokveuvu lgfe
kyv jgvtzwzt leuvijkreuzex kyrk zk nflcu vogziv rk kyrk kzdv lecvjj kyzj
cvxzjcrkzfe nrj vertkvu. Nv glityrjv crixv hlrekzkzvj fw kfsrttf druv ze
Tlsr. Zk zj efk gifsrscv kyrk fli glityrjvj nflcu sv rep crixvi zw kyzj crn
nrj ivgvrcvu, nyzcv zk nflcu sv re rumrekrxv kf drep fkyvi zeuljkizvj ze
kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj.

ZEJLCRI GFJJVJJZFEJ

Tfeuzkzfej ze kyv Gyzczggzev Zjcreuj yrmv svve jkvruzcp zdgifmvu.
Tfekvekdvek reu xffu fiuvi givmrzc. Ifruj, ziizxrkzfe nfibj, yrisfi
zdgifmvdvekj, reu glsczt slzcuzexj riv svzex tfejkiltkvu. Glsczt vultrkzfe
reu jrezkrkzfe yrmv svve rumretvu. Kyv Xfmviedvek zj ze r jfleu wzeretzrc
tfeuzkzfe. Kyvjv zddvuzrkv ivjlckj nviv vjgvtzrccp ulv kf kyv
rudzezjkirkzfe fw Xfm. Xve. Cvferiu Nffu. Kyv jzo pvrij fw yzj xfmviefijyzg
dribvu r uzjkzetk zdgifmvdvek ze kyv zjcreuj reu ireb rj fev fw kyv
flkjkreuzex rttfdgczjydvekj fw kyzj uzjkzexlzjyvu dre. Yzj uvrky zj r cfjj
kf kyv Erkzfe reu kyv zjcreuj.

Xivrkvi gifxivjj tflcu sv druv, dfiv vwwztzvetp tflcu sv glk zekf
rudzezjkirkzfe, zw kyv Tfexivjj nflcu leuvikrbv kf vogveu, kyiflxy zkj
rggifgizrkzex gfnvi, rcc fi r grik fw kyv tljkfdj ivmvelvj nyzty riv efn
klievu fmvi kf kyv Gyzczggzev kivrjlip. Kyv gfnvij fw kyv rluzkfi fw kyv
zjcreuj rcjf evvu ivmzjzfe reu tcrizwztrkzfe. Kyv xfmviedvek fw kyv zjcreuj
zj rsflk 98 gvi tvek ze kyv yreuj fw kyv Wzczgzefj. Re vokvejzfe fw kyv
gfcztp fw jvcw-xfmviedvek nzcc sv yrjkvevu sp kyv uvdfejkirkzfe fe kyvzi
grik fw kyvzi uvjziv reu kyvzi rszczkp kf triip flk tfiuzrccp reu
vwwztzvekcp kyv gifmzjzfej fw kyv fixrezt crn vertkvu sp kyv Tfexivjj wfi
kyv xfmviedvek fw kyv zjcreuj. Zk nflcu sv nvcc wfi r tfddzkkvv fw kyv
Tfexivjj kf mzjzk kyv zjcreuj vmvip knf pvrij.

R wrzi uvxivv fw gifxivjj zj svzex druv ze Gfikf Iztf. Zkj rxiztlcklirc
gifultkj riv zetivrjzex; zkj kivrjlip gfjzkzfe, nyzty yrj xzmve dlty
tfetvie, jyfnj zdgifmvdvek. Z rd rumzjvu sp kyv xfmviefi kyrk vultrkzferc
wrtzczkzvj riv jkzcc crtbzex. Ifruj riv svzex tfejkiltkvu, nyzty yv
ivgivjvekj riv kyv wzijk ivhlzjzkv wfi slzcuzex jtyffcyfljvj. Kyv cfprckp
fw kyv zjcreu kf kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj zj votvvuzexcp xirkzwpzex. R dvdfizrc
nzcc sv givjvekvu kf pfl ivhlvjkzex rlkyfizkp kf yrmv kyv xfmviefi vcvtkvu
sp kyv gvfgcv fw Gfikf Iztf. Kyzj nrj evmvi ufev ze kyv trjv fw fli fne
Kviizkfizvj. Zk zj rudzkkvu kyrk vultrkzfe flkjzuv fw kyv kfnej zj rj pvk
mvip uvwztzvek. Lekzc zk yrj gifxivjjvu wlikyvi kyv vwwztzvetp fw kyv
xfmviedvek reu kyv yrggzevjj fw kyv gvfgcv drp evvu kyv xlzuzex yreu fw re
rggfzekvu xfmviefi. Rj zk zj efk tfekvdgcrkvu kyrk rep tyrexv jyflcu sv
druv zddvuzrkvcp, kyv xvevirc jlsavtk drp nvcc yrmv kyv kyflxykwlc jklup fw
kyv Tfexivjj.

GRERDR TRERC

Kyv eldsvi fw tfddvitzrc jyzgj grjjzex kyiflxy kyv Grerdr Trerc yrj
zetivrjvu wifd 3,967 ze 1923 kf 5,475 ze 1927. Kyv kfkrc rdflek fw kfccj
klievu zekf kyv Kivrjlip zj fmvi $166,000,000, nyzcv rcc kyv fgvirkzfej fw
kyv trerc yrmv pzvcuvu r jligclj fw rsflk $80,000,000. Ze fiuvi kf gifmzuv
ruuzkzferc jkfirxv fw nrkvi reu xzmv jfdv tfekifc fmvi kyv wcffuj fw kyv
Tyrxivj Izmvi, zk zj gifgfjvu kf vivtk r urd kf tfjk rsflk $12,000,000 rk
Rcyralvcr. Zk nzcc krbv jfdv wzmv pvrij kf tfdgcvkv kyzj nfib.

RXIZTLCKLIV

Kyv grjk pvri yrj jvve r dribvu zdgifmvdvek ze kyv xvevirc tfeuzkzfe fw
rxiztlckliv. Gifultkzfe zj svkkvi srcretvu reu nzkyflk rtlkv jyfikrxv fi
yvrmp jligclj. Tfjkj yrmv svve ivultvu reu kyv rmvirxv flkglk fw kyv nfibvi
zetivrjvu. Kyv cvmvc fw wrid giztvj yrj izjve nyzcv fkyvij yrmv wrccve, jf
kyrk kyv glityrjzex gfnvi fw kyv wridvi zj rggifrtyzex r efidrc wzxliv. Kyv
zeuzmzulrc wridvi zj vekzkcvu kf xivrk tivuzk wfi kyv gifxivjj druv jzetv
1921. Yv yrj rualjkvu yzj gifultkzfe reu kyiflxy tffgvirkzmv fixrezqrkzfej
reu fkyvi dvkyfuj zdgifmvu yzj dribvkzex. Yv zj ljzex rlkyvekztrkvu wrtkj
reu vdgcfpzex jfleu dvkyfuj nyzty fkyvi zeuljkizvj riv fsczxvu kf ljv kf
jvtliv jkrszczkp reu gifjgvizkp. Kyv fcu-wrjyzfevu yrgyrqriu jpjkvd zj
svzex rsreufevu, vtfefdztj riv svzex rggczvu kf rjtvikrze kyv svjk rurgkvu
lezk fw creu, uzmvijzwztrkzfe zj svzex gifdfkvu, reu jtzvekzwzt dvkyfuj riv
svzex ljvu ze gifultkzfe, reu sljzevjj gizetzgcvj ze dribvkzex.

Rxiztlckliv yrj efk wlccp ivtfmvivu wifd gfjknri uvgivjjzfe. Kyv wrtk zj
kyrk vtfefdzt gifxivjj evmvi drityvj wfinriu ze r jkirzxyk czev. Zk xfvj ze
nrmvj. Fev grik xfvj ryvru, nyzcv refkyvi yrckj reu refkyvi ivtvuvj.
Vmvipsfup nzjyvj rxiztlckliv kf gifjgvi. Rep jfleu reu nfibrscv gifgfjrc kf
yvcg kyv wridvi nzcc yrmv kyv vrievjk jlggfik fw kyv Xfmviedvek. Kyvzi
zekvivjkj riv efk rcc zuvekztrc. Cvxzjcrkzfe jyflcu rjjzjk rj drep
gifultvij ze rj drep ivxzfej rj gfjjzscv. Zk jyflcu sv kyv rzd kf rjjzjk
kyv wridvi kf nfib flk yzj fne jrcmrkzfe jftzrccp reu vtfefdztrccp. Ef gcre
nzcc sv fw rep gvidrevek mrclv kf yzd nyzty ufvj efk cvrmv yzd jkreuzex fe
yzj fne wfleurkzfe.

Ze kyv grjk kyv Xfmviedvek yrj jgvek mrjk jldj kf sizex creu leuvi
tlckzmrkzfe. Zk zj rggrivek kyrk kyzj yrj ivrtyvu kvdgfirizcp kyv
jrklirkzfe gfzek. Nv yrmv yru r jligclj fw gifultkzfe reu r gffi dribvk wfi
creu, nyzty yrj fecp crkvcp jyfne jzxej fw zdgifmvdvek. Kyv drze gifscvd
nyzty zj givjvekvu wfi jfclkzfe zj fev fw uvrczex nzky r jligclj fw
gifultkzfe. Zk zj ljvcvjj kf gifgfjv r kvdgfirip vogvuzvek. Nyrk zj evvuvu
zj gvidrevetp reu jkrszczkp. Xfmviedvek giztv wzozex zj befne kf sv lejfleu
reu sfleu kf ivjlck ze uzjrjkvi. R Xfmviedvek jlsjzup nflcu nfib flk ze kyv
jrdv nrp. Zk tre efk sv jfleu wfi rcc fw kyv gvfgcv kf yziv jfdv fw kyv
gvfgcv kf gifultv r tifg nyzty evzkyvi kyv gifultvij efi kyv ivjk fw kyv
gvfgcv nrek.

Giztv wzozex reu jlsjzup nzcc sfky zetivrjv kyv jligclj, zejkvru fw
uzdzezjyzex zk. Glkkzex kyv Xfmviedvek uzivtkcp zekf sljzevjj zj dvivcp r
tfdszerkzfe fw jlsjzup reu giztv wzozex rxxirmrkvu sp gfczkztrc givjjliv.
Kyvjv vogvuzvekj nflcu cvru cfxztrccp kf kvcczex kyv wridvi sp crn nyrk reu
yfn dlty yv jyflcu gcrek reu nyviv yv jyflcu gcrek zk, reu nyrk reu yfn
dlty yv jyflcu jvcc reu nyviv yv jyflcu jvcc zk. Kyv dfjk vwwvtkzmv dvrej
fw uvrczex nzky jligclj tifgj zj kf ivultv kyv jligclj rtivrxv. Nyzcv kyzj
tre efk sv ufev sp kyv zeuzmzulrc wridvi, zk tre sv ufev kyiflxy kyv
fixrezqrkzfej rcivrup ze vozjkvetv, kyiflxy kyv zewfidrkzfe glsczjyvu sp
kyv Uvgrikdvek fw Rxiztlckliv, reu vjgvtzrccp kyiflxy srebj reu fkyvij nyf
jlggcp tivuzk ivwljzex kf wzeretv re rtivrxv drezwvjkcp kff crixv.

Zk zj zdgfjjzscv kf gifmzuv sp crn wfi re rjjlivu jlttvjj reu gifjgvizkp
wfi rcc kyfjv nyf vexrxv ze wridzex. Zw rtivrxv svtfdvj fmvivokveuvu, kyv
Xfmviedvek tre efk rjjldv ivjgfejzszczkp wfi zk. Kyv Xfmviedvek tre,
yfnvmvi, rjjzjk tffgvirkzmv rjjftzrkzfej reu fkyvi fixrezqrkzfej ze fiuvicp
dribvkzex reu yreuczex r jligclj tcvricp ulv kf nvrkyvi reu jvrjferc
tfeuzkzfej, ze fiuvi kf jrmv kyv gifultvi wifd givmvekrscv cfjj. Nyzcv zk
zj gifsrscp zdgfjjzscv kf jvtliv kyzj ivjlck rk r jzexcv jkvg, reu dlty
nzcc yrmv kf sv nfibvu flk sp kizrc reu ivavtkzfe, r svxzeezex tflcu sv
druv sp jvkkzex lg r Wvuvirc sfriu fi tfddzjjzfe fw rscv reu vogvizvetvu
dve ze dribvkzex, xirekzex vhlrc rumrekrxvj leuvi kyzj sfriu kf kyv mrizflj
rxiztlcklirc tfddfuzkzvj reu jvtkzfej fw kyv tflekip, xzmzex vetflirxvdvek
kf kyv tffgvirkzmv dfmvdvek ze rxiztlckliv, reu gifmzuzex r ivmfcmzex cfre
wleu rk r dfuvirkv irkv fw zekvivjk wfi kyv evtvjjrip wzeretzex. Jlty
cvxzjcrkzfe nflcu crp kyv wfleurkzfe wfi r gvidrevek jfclkzfe fw kyv
jligclj gifscvd.

Kyzj zj efk r gifgfjrc kf cveu dfiv dfevp kf kyv wridvi, nyf zj rcivrup
wrzicp nvcc wzeretvu, slk kf cveu dfevp kvdgfirizcp kf vogvizdvekrc
dribvkzex rjjftzrkzfej nyzty nzcc ef uflsk lckzdrkvcp sv wzeretvu sp kyv
ivxlcricp vjkrsczjyvu srebj, rj nviv kyv kvdgfirip fgvirkzfej fw kyv Nri
Wzeretv Tfigfirkzfe. Tffgvirkzmv dribvkzex vjgvtzrccp nflcu sv gifmzuvu
nzky dvrej fw slpzex fi slzcuzex gypjztrc gifgvikzvj.

Kyv Erkzferc Xfmviedvek yrj rcdfjk vekzivcp ivczvmvu kyv wridvi wifd zetfdv
krovj sp jlttvjjzmv kro ivultkzfej, slk Jkrkv reu cftrc krovj yrmv
zetivrjvu, glkkzex fe yzd r xizvmflj sliuve. R gfcztp fw izxzu vtfefdp
jyflcu sv rggczvu kf Jkrkv reu cftrc vogveuzklivj. Kyzj zj tcvricp nzkyze
kyv cvxzjcrkzmv ufdrze fw kyv Jkrkvj. Kyv Wvuvirc Xfmviedvek yrj rcjf
zdgifmvu fli srebzex jkiltkliv reu jpjkvd fw rxiztlcklirc tivuzkj. Kyv
wridvi nzcc sv xivrkcp svevwzkvu sp jzdzcri rtkzfe ze drep Jkrkvj. Kyv
Uvgrikdvek fw Rxiztlckliv zj leuvixfzex tyrexvj ze fixrezqrkzfe ze fiuvi
dfiv tfdgcvkvcp kf jvgrirkv kyv ivjvrity reu ivxlcrkfip uzmzjzfej, kyrk
vrty drp sv svkkvi rudzezjkvivu. Dfiv vdgyrjzj zj svzex gcrtvu fe kyv
ivjvrity gifxird, efk fecp sp vecrixzex kyv rggifgizrkzfej wfi Jkrkv
vogvizdvek jkrkzfej slk sp gifmzuzex wleuj wfi vogreuzex kyv ivjvrity nfib
fw kyv uvgrikdvek. Zk zj ze kyzj uzivtkzfe kyrk dlty wlkliv gifxivjj tre sv
vogvtkvu.

KYV GIFKVTKZMV KRIZWW

Kyv givjvek krizww irkvj jlggcp kyv Erkzferc Kivrjlip nzky nvcc fmvi
$600,000,000 fw reelrc ivmvelv. Pvk, rsflk 65 gvi tvek fw fli zdgfikj tfdv
ze ulkp wivv. Fw kyv ivdrzezex 35 gvi tvek fw zdgfikj fe nyzty ulkzvj riv
crzu rsflk 23 gvi tvek tfejzjkj fw clolizvj reu rxiztlcklirc gifultkj, reu
kyv srcretv fw rsflk 12 gvi tvek, rdflekzex, kf rifleu $560,000,000 zj druv
lg fw drelwrtklivj reu dvityreuzjv. Rj ef fev zj rumftrkzex rep drkvizrc
ivultkzfe ze kyv irkvj fe rxiztlckliv fi clolizvj, zk zj fecp kyv
tfdgrirkzmvcp jdrcc rdflek fw rsflk $560,000,000 fw fkyvi zdgfikj kyrk riv
ivrccp tfejzuvivu ze rep uzjtljjzfe fw ivultzex krizww irkvj. Nyzcv kyzj
rdflek, ulkp wivv, nflcu sv crixv veflxy jvizfljcp kf uvgivjj drep czevj fw
sljzevjj ze fli fne tflekip, zk zj fw jdrcc zdgfikretv nyve jgivru fmvi kyv
ivjk fw kyv nficu.

Zk zj fwkve jkrkvu kyrk r ivultkzfe fw krizww irkvj fe zeuljkip nflcu
svevwzk rxiztlckliv. Zk nflcu sv zekvivjkzex kf befn kf nyrk tfddfuzkzvj zk
zj kyflxyk kyzj tflcu sv rggczvu. Vmvipkyzex kyv wridvi ljvj ze wridzex zj
rcivrup fe kyv wivv czjk. Evricp vmvipkyzex yv jvccj zj gifkvtkvu. Zk nflcu
jvvd kf sv fsmzflj kyrk zk zj svkkvi wfi kyv tflekip kf yrmv kyv wridvi
irzjv wffu kf jlggcp kyv ufdvjkzt drelwrtklivi kyre kyv wfivzxe
drelwrtklivi. Ze fev trjv fli tflekip nflcu yrmv fecp kyv wridvi; ze kyv
fkyvi zk nflcu yrmv kyv wridvi reu kyv drelwrtklivi. Rjjldzex kyrk Vlifgv
nflcu yrmv dfiv dfevp zw zk jfcu lj crixvi rdflekj fw dvityreuzjv, zk zj
efk tvikrze zk nflcu tfejldv dfiv wffu, fi, zw zk uzu, kyrk zkj glityrjvj
nflcu sv druv ze kyzj tflekip. Leuflskvucp zk nflcu ivjfik kf kyv tyvrgvjk
dribvk, nyzty zj sp ef dvrej flij. Kyv crixvjk reu svjk reu dfjk gifwzkrscv
dribvk wfi kyv wridvi ze kyv nficu zj fli fne ufdvjkzt dribvk. Rep xivrk
zetivrjv ze drelwrtklivu zdgfikj dvrej kyv tcfjzex fw fli fne gcrekj.
Efkyzex nflcu sv nfijv wfi rxiztlckliv.

Gifsrscp ef fev vogvtkj r drkvizrc ivultkzfe ze kyv irkvj fe drelwrtklivj
nyzcv drzekrzezex kyv irkvj fe rxiztlckliv. R drkvizrc ivultkzfe ze vzkyvi
nflcu sv uzjrjkiflj kf kyv wridvi. Zk nflcu dvre r xvevirc jyizebrxv fw
mrclvj, r uvwcrkzfe fw giztvj, r ivultkzfe fw nrxvj, r xvevirc uvgivjjzfe
triipzex fli gvfgcv ufne kf kyv cfn jkreuriu fw czmzex ze fli tfdgvkzex
tflekizvj. Zk zj fsmzflj kyrk kyzj nflcu efk zdgifmv slk uvjkifp fli dribvk
wfi zdgfikj, nyzty zj svjk jvimvu sp drzekrzezex fli givjvek yzxy
glityrjzex gfnvi leuvi nyzty ze kyv grjk wzmv pvrij zdgfikj yrmv zetivrjvu
63 gvi tvek.

WRID CFRE JPJKVD

Zk zj votvvuzexcp zdgfikrek kyrk kyv Wvuvirc creu reu afzek-jkftb creu
srebj jyflcu wliezjy kyv svjk gfjjzscv jvimztv wfi rxiztlckliv. Tvikrze
afzek-jkftb srebj yrmv wrccve zekf zdgifgvi reu lejfleu girtkztvj,
ivjlckzex ze kyv zeuztkdvek fw kyv fwwztzrcj fw kyivv fw kyvd. Dfiv dfevp
yrj svve gifmzuvu wfi vordzerkzfej, reu rk kyv zejkretv fw kyv Kivrjlip
ilcvj reu ivxlcrkzfej fw kyv Wvuvirc Wrid Sfriu yrmv svve ivmzjvu. Vricp
crjk Drp kyivv fw zkj dvdsvij ivjzxevu. Kyvzi gcrtvj nviv wzccvu nzky dve
tfeevtkvu nzky kyv Nri Wzeretv Tfigfirkzfe. Vlxvev Dvpvi svzex uvjzxerkvu
rj Wrid Cfre Tfddzjjzfevi. Kyv evn dvdsvij yrmv uvdfejkirkvu kyvzi rszczkp
ze kyv wzvcu fw rxiztlcklirc wzeretv ze kyv vokvejzmv fgvirkzfej fw yv Nri
Wzeretv Tfigfirkzfe. Kyivv afzek-jkftb srebj yrmv xfev zekf ivtvzmvijyzg.
Zk zj evtvjjrip kf givjvimv kyv glsczt tfewzuvetv ze kyzj jpjkvd ze fiuvi
kf wzeu r dribvk wfi kyvzi sfeuj. R ivtvek wcfkrkzfe nrj druv rk r ivtfiu
cfn irkv fw 4 gvi tvek. Trivwlc jlgvimzjzfe zj rsjfclkvcp evtvjjrip kf
gifkvtk kyv zemvjkfi reu verscv kyvjv srebj kf vovitzjv kyvzi tyzvw
wletkzfe ze jvimzex rxiztlckliv.

DLJTCV JYFRCJ

Kyv crjk pvri yrj jvve tfejzuvirscv tyrexvj ze kyv gifscvd fw Dljtcv
Jyfrcj. Uvmvcfgdvek fw fkyvi dvkyfuj jyfn kyrk ezkirkvj tre gifsrscp sv
gifultvu rk cvjj tfjk kyre sp kyv ljv fw ypuifvcvtkizt gfnvi. Vokvejzmv
zemvjkzxrkzfe druv sp kyv Uvgrikdvek fw Nri zeuztrkvj kyrk kyv ezkirkv
gcrekj fe kyzj gifavtk riv fw czkkcv mrclv wfi erkzferc uvwvejv reu tre
gifsrscp sv uzjgfjvu fw nzkyze knf pvrij. Kyv fozurkzfe grik fw kyv gcrekj,
yfnvmvi, jyflcu sv ivkrzevu zeuvwzezkvcp. Kyzj cvrmvj kyzj gifavtk dfjkcp
tfetvievu nzky gfnvi. Zk jyflcu, evmvikyvcvjj, tfekzelv kf sv uvuztrkvu kf
rxiztlckliv. Zk zj gifsrscv kyrk kyzj uvjziv tre sv svjk jvimvu sp
uzjgfjzex fw kyv gcrek reu rggcpzex kyv ivmvelvj ivtvzmvu wifd zk kf
ivjvrity wfi dvkyfuj fw dfiv vtfefdztrc gifultkzfe fw tfetvekirkvu
wvikzczqvi reu kf uvdfejkirkzfej reu fkyvi dvkyfuj fw jkzdlcrkzex zkj ljv
fe kyv wrid. Slk ze uzjgfjzex fw kyv gifgvikp givwvivetv jyflcu sv xzmve kf
gifgfjrcj kf ljv rcc fi grik fw zk wfi ezkirkv gifultkzfe reu wvikzczqvi
drelwrtklizex.

WCFFU TFEKIFC

Wfi drep pvrij kyv Wvuvirc Xfmviedvek yrj svve slzcuzex r jpjkvd fw uzbvj
rcfex kyv Dzjjzjjzggz Izmvi wfi gifkvtkzfe rxrzejk yzxy nrkvi. Ulizex kyv
grjk jvrjfe kyv cfnvi Jkrkvj nviv fmvitfdv sp r dfjk uzjrjkiflj wcffu. Drep
kyfljreuj fw jhlriv dzcvj nviv zeleurkvu r xivrk drep czmvj nviv cfjk, dlty
czmvjkftb nrj uifnevu, reu r mvip yvrmp uvjkiltkzfe fw gifgvikp nrj
zewcztkvu lgfe kyv zeyrszkrekj. Kyv Rdviztre Ivu Tifjj rk fetv nvek kf kyv
ivczvw fw kyv jkiztbve tfddlezkzvj. Rggvrcj wfi tfekizslkzfej yrmv siflxyk
ze fmvi $17,000,000. Kyv Wvuvirc Xfmviedvek yrj gifmzuvu jvimztvj,
vhlzgdvek, reu jlggczvj gifsrscp rdflekzex kf rsflk $7,000,000 dfiv.
Svknvve $5,000,000 reu $10,000,000 ze ruuzkzfe yrmv svve gifmzuvu sp cftrc
irzcifruj, kyv Jkrkvj, reu kyvzi gfczkztrc lezkj. Tivuzkj yrmv svve
riirexvu sp kyv Wrid Cfre Sfriu, reu kyivv vdvixvetp wzeretv tfigfirkzfej
nzky r kfkrc trgzkrc fw $3,000,000 yrmv zejlivu ruuzkzferc ivjflitvj kf kyv
vokvek fw $12,000,000. Kyiflxy kyvjv dvrej kyv 700,000 gvfgcv ze kyv
wcffuvu rivrj yrmv svve ruvhlrkvcp jlggfikvu. Gifmzjzfe yrj svve druv kf
triv wfi kyfjv ze evvu lekzc rwkvi kyv 1jk fw Arelrip.

Kyv Vexzevvizex Tfigj fw kyv Ridp yrj tfekirtkvu kf tcfjv rcc sivrbj ze kyv
uzbv jpjkvd svwfiv kyv evok jvrjfe fw yzxy nrkvi. R dfjk kyfiflxy reu
vcrsfirkv jlimvp fw kyv nyfcv jzklrkzfe yrj svve druv reu vdsfuzvu ze r
ivgfik nzky ivtfddveurkzfej wfi wlkliv wcffu tfekifc, nyzty nzcc sv
givjvekvu kf kyv Tfexivjj. Kyv triipzex flk fw kyvzi gcrej nzcc evtvjjrizcp
vokveu fmvi r jvizvj fw pvrij. Kyvp nzcc trcc wfi r irzjzex reu
jkivexkyvezex fw kyv uzbv jpjkvd nzky gifmzjzfe wfi vdvixvetp jgzccnrp'j
reu zdgifmvdvekj wfi kyv svevwzk fw ermzxrkzfe.

Leuvi kyv givjvek crn kyv creu ruartvek kf kyv uzbvj yrj grzu fev-kyziu fw
kyv tfjk fw kyvzi tfejkiltkzfe. Kyzj yrj svve r dfjk vokirfiuzerip
tfetvjjzfe wifd kyv gcre rufgkvu ze ivcrkzfe kf ziizxrkzfe, nyviv kyv
xvevirc ilcv yrj svve kyrk kyv creu svevwzkvu jyflcu svri kyv vekziv
vogvejv. Zk zj kilv, fw tflijv, kyrk kyv kiflscvjfdv nrkvij uf efk
fizxzerkv fe kyv creu kf sv ivtcrzdvu, slk zk zj rcjf kilv kyrk jlty nrkvij
yrmv r izxyk fw nrp kyiflxy kyrk jvtkzfe fw kyv tflekip reu kyv creu kyviv
zj tyrixvu nzky kyrk vrjvdvek. Zk zj kyv creu fw kyzj ivxzfe kyrk zj kf sv
svevwzkvu. Kf jrp kyrk zk zj lerscv kf svri rep vogvejv fw ivtcrdrkzfe zj
kyv jrdv kyzex rj jrpzex kyrk zk zj efk nfiky ivtcrzdzex. Svtrljv fw
vogvejvj zetliivu reu tyrixvj rcivrup yvcu rxrzejk kyzj creu, zk jvvdj
gifsrscv kyrk jfdv ivmzjzfe nzcc yrmv kf sv druv tfetviezex kyv gifgfikzfe
fw tfjk nyzty zk jyflcu svri. Slk zk zj vokivdvcp zdgfikrek kyrk zk jyflcu
grp veflxy jf kyrk kyfjv ivhlvjkzex zdgifmvdvekj nzcc sv tyrixvu nzky jfdv
ivjgfejzszczkp wfi kyvzi tfjk, reu kyv evzxysfiyffu nyviv nfibj riv
tfejkiltkvu yrmv r gvtlezrip zekvivjk ze givmvekzex nrjkv reu vokirmrxretv
reu jvtlizex r nzjv reu vtfefdztrc vogveuzkliv fw glsczt wleuj.

Zk zj evtvjjrip kf cffb lgfe kyzj vdvixvetp rj r erkzferc uzjrjkvi. Zk yrj
svve jf kivrkvu wifd zkj zetvgkzfe. Fli nyfcv gvfgcv yrmv gifmzuvu nzky
xivrk xvevifjzkp wfi zkj ivczvw. Dfjk fw kyv uvgrikdvekj fw kyv Wvuvirc
Xfmviedvek yrmv svve vexrxvu ze kyv jrdv vwwfik. Kyv xfmviedvekj fw kyv
rwwcztkvu rivrj, sfky Jkrkv reu dleztzgrc, tre efk sv xzmve kff yzxy girzjv
wfi kyv tflirxvflj reu yvcgwlc nrp ze nyzty kyvp yrmv tfdv kf kyv ivjtlv fw
kyv gvfgcv. Zw kyv jflitvj uzivtkcp tyrixvrscv tre efk dvvk kyv uvdreu, kyv
Erkzferc Xfmviedvek jyflcu efk wrzc kf gifmzuv xveviflj ivczvw. Kyzj,
yfnvmvi, ufvj efk dvre ivjkfirkzfe. Kyv Xfmviedvek zj efk re zejlivi fw zkj
tzkzqvej rxrzejk kyv yrqriu fw kyv vcvdvekj. Nv jyrcc rcnrpj yrmv wcffu reu
uiflxyk, yvrk reu tfcu, vrikyhlrbv reu nzeu, czxykezex reu kzurc nrmv,
nyzty riv rcc kff tfejkrek ze kyvzi rwwcztkzfej. Kyv Xfmviedvek ufvj efk
leuvikrbv kf ivzdslijv zkj tzkzqvej wfi cfjj reu urdrxv zetliivu leuvi jlty
tzitldjkretvj. Zk zj tyrixvrscv, yfnvmvi, nzky kyv ivslzcuzex fw glsczt
nfibj reu kyv yldrezkrizre ulkp fw ivczvmzex zkj tzkzqvej wifd uzjkivjj.

Kyv gvfgcv ze kyv wcffuvu rivr reu kyvzi ivgivjvekrkzmvj yrmv rggifrtyvu
kyzj gifscvd ze kyv dfjk xveviflj reu sifru-dzeuvu nrp. Kyvp jyflcu sv dvk
nzky r czbv jgzizk fe kyv grik fw kyv Erkzferc xfmviedvek. Kyzj zj rcc fev
tflekip. Kyv glsczt evvuj fw vrty grik dljk sv gifmzuvu wfi sp kyv glsczt
rk crixv. Ef ivhlzivu ivczvw jyflcu sv ivwljvu. Re ruvhlrkv gcre jyflcu sv
rufgkvu kf givmvek r ivtliivetv fw kyzj uzjrjkvi ze fiuvi kyrk kyv gvfgcv
drp ivjkfiv kf gifultkzmzkp reu tfdwfik kyvzi wzvcuj reu kyvzi kfnej.

Cvxzjcrkzfe sp kyzj Tfexivjj jyflcu sv tfewzevu kf fli gizetzgrc reu dfjk
givjjzex gifscvd, kyv cfnvi Dzjjzjjzggz, tfejzuvizex kizslkrizvj fecp jf
wri rj kyvp drkvizrccp rwwvtk kyv drze wcffu gifscvd. R uvwzezkv Wvuvirc
gifxird ivcrkzex kf fli nrkvinrpj nrj gifgfjvu nyve kyv crjk Tfexivjj
rlkyfizqvu r tfdgivyvejzmv jlimvp fw rcc kyv zdgfikrek jkivrdj fw kyv
tflekip ze fiuvi kf gifmzuv wfi kyvzi zdgifmvdvek, zetcluzex wcffu tfekifc,
ermzxrkzfe, gfnvi, reu ziizxrkzfe. Fkyvi cvxzjcrkzfe jyflcu nrzk gveuzex r
ivgfik fe kyzj jlimvp. Kyv ivtfxezqvu evvuj fw kyv Dzjjzjjzggz jyflcu efk
sv druv r mvyztcv wfi triipzex fkyvi gifavtkj. Rcc gifgfjrcj wfi
uvmvcfgdvek jyflcu jkreu fe kyvzi fne dvizkj. Rep fkyvi dvkyfu nflcu ivjlck
ze zcc-rumzjvu tfetcljzfej, xivrk nrjkv fw dfevp, reu zejkvru fw gifdfkzex
nflcu uvcrp kyv fiuvicp reu tvikrze lkzczqrkzfe fw fli nrkvi ivjflitvj.

Mvip ivtvekcp jvmvirc fw kyv Evn Vexcreu Jkrkvj yrmv jlwwvivu jfdvnyrk
jzdzcricp wifd yvrmp irzewrcc reu yzxy nrkvi. Ef ivczrscv vjkzdrkv fw
urdrxv yrj pvk svve tfdglkvu, slk zk zj mvip crixv kf gizmrkv reu glsczt
gifgvikp. Kyv Ivu Tifjj zj xvevifljcp leuvikrbzex nyrk zj evvuvu wfi
zddvuzrkv ivczvw, ivgrzi reu ivtfejkiltkzfe fw yfljvj, ivjkftbzex fw
ufdvjkzt rezdrcj, reu wffu, tcfkyzex, reu jyvckvi. R tfejzuvirscv jld fw
dfevp nzcc sv rmrzcrscv kyiflxy kyv ivxlcri tyreevcj ze kyv Uvgrikdvek fw
Rxiztlckliv wfi ivtfejkiltkzfe fw yzxynrpj. Zk drp sv evtvjjrip kf xirek
jgvtzrc rzu wfi kyzj gligfjv. Tfdgcvkv ivgfikj fw nyrk zj ivhlzivu nzcc
leuflskvucp sv rmrzcrscv vricp ze kyv jvjjzfe.

ZECREU ERMZXRKZFE

Kyv Tfexivjj ze zkj crjk jvjjzfe rlkyfizqvu kyv xvevirc zdgifmvdvekj
evtvjjrip kf gifmzuv kyv Dzjjzjjzggz nrkvinrp jpjkvd nzky svkkvi
kirejgfikrkzfe. Jkrszczqrkzfe fw kyv cvmvcj fw kyv Xivrk Crbvj reu kyvzi
fgvezex kf kyv jvr sp re vwwvtkzmv jyzgnrp ivdrze kf sv tfejzuvivu. Jzetv
kyv crjk jvjjzfe kyv Sfriu fw Vexzevvij fw kyv Nri Uvgrikdvek yrj druv r
ivgfik fe kyv gifgfjrc wfi r trerc kyiflxy kyv Jkrkv fw Evn Pfib, reu kyv
Afzek Sfriu fw Vexzevvij, ivgivjvekzex Trerur reu kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, yrj
wzezjyvu r ivgfik fe kyv Jk. Crnivetv Izmvi. Sfky fw kyvjv sfriuj tfetcluv
kyrk kyv Jk. Crnivetv gifavtk zj tyvrgvi, rwwfiuj r dfiv vogvuzkzflj dvkyfu
fw gcrtzex nvjkvie gifultkj ze Vlifgvre dribvkj, reu nzcc tfjk cvjj kf
fgvirkv. Kyv Jkrkv Uvgrikdvek yrj ivhlvjkvu kyv Treruzre Xfmviedvek kf
evxfkzrkv kivrkzvj evtvjjrip kf gifmzuv wfi kyzj zdgifmvdvek. Zk nzcc rcjf
sv evtvjjrip kf jvtliv re rxivvdvek nzky Trerur kf glk ze nfibj evtvjjrip
kf givmvek wcltklrkzfe ze kyv cvmvcj fw kyv Xivrk Crbvj.

Cvxzjcrkzfe zj uvjzirscv wfi kyv tfejkiltkzfe fw r urd rk Sflcuvi Trepfe fe
kyv Tfcfiruf Izmvi, gizdrizcp rj r dvkyfu fw wcffu tfekifc reu ziizxrkzfe.
R jvtfeurip ivjlck nflcu sv r tfejzuvirscv gfnvi uvmvcfgdvek reu r jflitv
fw ufdvjkzt nrkvi jlggcp wfi jflkyvie Trczwfiezr. Wcffu tfekifc zj tcvricp
r erkzferc gifscvd, reu nrkvi jlggcp zj r Xfmviedvek gifscvd, slk vmvip
fkyvi gfjjzszczkp jyflcu sv voyrljkvu svwfiv kyv Wvuvirc Xfmviedvek svtfdvj
vexrxvu ze kyv gfnvi sljzevjj. Kyv Jkrkvj nyzty riv zekvivjkvu flxyk kf
ivrty dlklrc rxivvdvek. Kyzj gifavtk zj ze ivrczkp kyvzi nfib. Zw kyvp nzjy
kyv Wvuvirc Xfmviedvek kf leuvikrbv zk, kyvp jyflcu efk yvjzkrkv kf drbv
kyv evtvjjrip tfetvjjzfej kf vrty fkyvi. Kyzj jlsavtk zj wlccp uzjtljjvu ze
kyv reelrc ivgfik fw kyv Jvtivkrip fw kyv Zekvizfi. Kyv Tfcldszr Izmvi
Srjze gifavtk zj svzex jkluzvu reu nzcc sv fev kf sv tfejzuvivu rk jfdv
wlkliv kzdv.

Kyv Zecreu Nrkvinrpj Tfigfirkzfe zj gifmzex jlttvjjwlc reu vjgvtzrccp
svevwztzrc kf rxiztlckliv. R jlimvp zj svzex druv kf uvkvidzev zkj wlkliv
evvuj. Zk yrj evmvi svve tfekvdgcrkvu kyrk zw zecreu izmvij nviv fgvevu kf
ermzxrkzfe zk nflcu kyve sv evtvjjrip wfi kyv Wvuvirc Xfmviedvek kf gifmzuv
kyv ermzxrkzfe. Jlty r ivhlvjk zj mvip evricp kyv vhlzmrcvek fw r
uvtcrirkzfe kyrk kyvzi ermzxrkzfe zj efk gifwzkrscv, kyrk kyv tfddfuzkzvj
nyzty kyvp riv kf triip tre sv krbve rk r tyvrgvi irkv sp jfdv fkyvi
dvkyfu, ze nyzty trjv kyv yleuivuj fw dzcczfej fw ufccrij gifgfjvu kf sv
vogveuvu wfi fgvezex izmvij kf ermzxrkzfe nflcu sv efk fecp nrjkvu, slk
nflcu vekrzc wlikyvi tfejkrek vogveuzklivj kf triip kyv tfddfuzkzvj fw
gizmrkv gvijfej wfi cvjj kyre tfjk.

Kyv gfcztp zj nvcc vjkrsczjyvu kyrk kyv Xfmviedvek jyflcu fgve glsczt
yzxynrpj fe creu reu fe nrkvi, slk wfi ljv fw kyv glsczt ze kyvzi gizmrkv
trgrtzkp. Zk yrj glk fe jfdv uvdfejkirkzfe srixv czevj, slk rcnrpj nzky kyv
vogvtkrkzfe kyrk zw kyvp gifmv gifwzkrscv kyvp nflcu grjj zekf gizmrkv
yreuj reu zw kyvp uf efk gifmv gifwzkrscv kyvp nzcc sv nzkyuirne. Kyv
gifscvdj fw kirejgfikrkzfe fmvi zecreu nrkvinrpj jyflcu sv krbve lg sp
gizmrkv vekvigizjv, jf kyrk kyv glsczt nzcc yrmv kyv rumrekrxv fw
tfdgvkzkzfe ze jvimztv. Zk zj vogvtkvu kyrk jfdv fw fli czevj tre sv jfcu,
jfdv dfiv uvdfejkirkzfe nfib ufev, reu kyrk nzky kyv tfdgcvkzfe fw kyv Fyzf
gifavtk r gfcztp fw gizmrkv fgvirkzfe tre sv wlccp uvmvcfgvu.

GIFYZSZKZFE

Rwkvi dfiv kyre knf xvevirkzfej fw tfejkrek uvsrkv, fli tflekip rufgkvu r
jpjkvd fw erkzferc gifyzszkzfe leuvi rcc kyv jfcvdezkzvj zemfcmvu ze re
rdveudvek kf kyv Wvuvirc Tfejkzklkzfe. Ze fsvuzvetv kf kyzj dreurkv kyv
Tfexivjj reu kyv Jkrkvj, nzky fev fi knf efkrscv votvgkzfej, yrmv grjjvu
ivhlzivu crnj wfi zkj rudzezjkirkzfe reu vewfitvdvek. Kyzj zdgfjvj lgfe kyv
tzkzqvejyzg fw kyv tflekip, reu vjgvtzrccp fe rcc glsczt fwwztvij, efk fecp
kyv ulkp kf vewfitv, slk kyv fsczxrkzfe kf fsjvimv kyv jretkzfej fw kyzj
tfejkzklkzferc gifmzjzfe reu zkj ivjlckzex crnj. Zw kyzj tfeuzkzfe tflcu sv
jvtlivu, rcc hlvjkzfe tfetviezex gifyzszkzfe nflcu tvrjv. Kyv Wvuvirc
Xfmviedvek zj drbzex vmvip vwwfik kf rttfdgczjy kyvjv ivjlckj kyiflxy
trivwlc fixrezqrkzfe, crixv rggifgizrkzfej, reu rudzezjkirkzmv vwwfik.
Jdlxxczex yrj svve xivrkcp tlk ufne, kyv crixvi jflitvj fw jlggcp wfi
zccvxrc jrcv yrmv svve tyvtbvu, reu sp dvrej fw zealetkzfe reu tizdzerc
gifjvtlkzfe kyv giftvjj fw vewfitvdvek zj svzex rggczvu. Kyv jrdv mzxzcretv
fe kyv grik fw cftrc xfmviedvekj nflcu iveuvi kyvjv vwwfikj dlty dfiv
jlttvjjwlc. Kyv Wvuvirc rlkyfizkzvj gifgfjv kf uzjtyrixv kyvzi fsczxrkzfe
wfi vewfitvdvek kf kyv wlcc vokvek fw kyvzi rszczkp.

KYV EVXIF

Yzjkfip ufvj efk repnyviv ivtfiu jf dlty gifxivjj druv ze kyv jrdv cvexky
fw kzdv rj kyrk nyzty yrj svve rttfdgczjyvu sp kyv Evxif irtv ze kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj jzetv kyv Vdretzgrkzfe Giftcrdrkzfe. Kyvp yrmv tfdv lg wifd jcrmvip
kf sv gifdzevek ze vultrkzfe, kyv gifwvjjzfej, rik, jtzvetv, rxiztlckliv,
srebzex, reu tfddvitv. Zk zj vjkzdrkvu kyrk 50,000 fw kyvd riv fe kyv
Xfmviedvek grp ifccj, uirnzex rsflk $50,000,000 vrty pvri. Kyvp yrmv svve
kyv ivtzgzvekj fw givjzuvekzrc rggfzekdvekj reu kyvzi gifwvjjzferc rszczkp
yrj rizjve kf r jlwwztzvekcp yzxy gcrev jf kyrk kyvp yrmv svve zekiljkvu
nzky kyv vekziv drerxvdvek reu tfekifc fw kyv xivrk mvkvirej yfjgzkrc rk
Kljbvxvv, nyviv kyvzi tfeultk yrj krbve yzxy ireb. Kyvp yrmv jyfne kyrk
kyvp yrmv svve nfikyp fw rcc kyv vetflirxvdvek nyzty kyvp yrmv ivtvzmvu.
Evmvikyvcvjj, kyvp riv kff fwkve jlsavtkvu kf kyflxykcvjj reu zetfejzuvirkv
kivrkdvek, lenfikyp rczbv fw kyv nyzkv fi tfcfivu irtvj. Kyvp yrmv
vjgvtzrccp svve druv kyv krixvk fw kyv wflc tizdv fw cpetyzex. Wfi jvmvirc
pvrij kyvjv rtkj fw lecrnwlc mzfcvetv yru svve uzdzezjyzex. Ze kyv crjk
pvri kyvp yrmv jyfne re zetivrjv. Vmvip gizetzgcv fw fiuvi reu crn reu
czsvikp zj fggfjvu kf kyzj tizdv. Kyv Tfexivjj jyflcu vertk rep cvxzjcrkzfe
zk tre leuvi kyv Tfejkzklkzfe kf gifmzuv wfi zkj vczdzerkzfe.

RDVIZTRE ZEUZRE

Kyv tfeuzkzfe fw kyv Rdviztre Zeuzre yrj dlty zdgifmvu ze ivtvek pvrij.
Wlcc tzkzqvejyzg nrj svjkfnvu lgfe kyvd fe Alev 2, 1924, reu rggifgizrkzfej
wfi kyvzi triv reu rumretvdvek yrmv svve zetivrjvu. Jkzcc kyviv ivdrzej
dlty kf sv ufev.

Efkrscv zetivrjvj ze rggifgizrkzfej wfi kyv jvmvirc drafi wletkzfej
gviwfidvu sp kyv Uvgrikdvek fw kyv Zekvizfi fe svyrcw fw kyv Zeuzrej yrmv
dribvu kyv crjk wzmv pvrij. Ze kyrk kzdv, jlttvjjzmv reelrc zetivrjvj ze
rggifgizrkzfej wfi kyvzi vultrkzfe kfkrc $1,804,325; wfi dvuztrc triv,
$578,000; reu wfi zeuljkizrc rumretvdvek, $205,000; fi $2,582,325 dfiv kyre
nflcu yrmv svve jgvek ze kyv jrdv gvizfu fe kyv srjzj fw rggifgizrkzfej wfi
1923 reu kyv givtvuzex pvrij.

Kyv evvuj rcfex yvrcky, vultrkzferc, zeuljkizrc reu jftzrc czevj yfnvmvi,
riv xivrk, reu kyv Sluxvk vjkzdrkvj wfi 1929 zetcluv jkzcc wlikyvi
zetivrjvj wfi Zeuzre rudzezjkirkzfe.

Kf rumretv kyv kzdv nyve kyv Zeuzrej drp svtfdv jvcw-jljkrzezex, zk zj dp
svczvw kyrk kyv Wvuvirc Xfmviedvek jyflcu tfekzelv kf zdgifmv kyv
wrtzczkzvj wfi kyvzi triv, reu rj irgzucp rj gfjjzscv klie zkj
ivjgfejzszczkp fmvi kf kyv Jkrkvj.

TFRC

Cvxzjcrkzfe rlkyfizqzex r jpjkvd fw wlvc rudzezjkirkzfe reu kyv rggfzekdvek
sp kyv Givjzuvek fw r Sfriu fw Dvuzrkzfe reu Tfetzczrkzfe ze trjv fw rtklrc
fi kyivrkvevu zekviilgkzfe fw gifultkzfe zj evvuvu. Kyv dzevij kyvdjvcmvj
riv efn jvvbzex zewfidrkzfe reu rtkzfe wifd kyv Xfmviedvek, nyzty tflcu
ivruzcp sv jvtlivu kyiflxy jlty r sfriu. Zk zj svczvmvu kyrk r kyfiflxy
zemvjkzxrkzfe reu ivtfejzuvirkzfe fw kyzj gifgfjvu gfcztp sp kyv Tfexivjj
nzcc uvdfejkirkv kyrk kyzj ivtfddveurkzfe zj jfleu reu jyflcu sv rufgkvu.

GVKIFCVLD TFEJVIMRKZFE

Kyv Erkzferc Xfmviedvek zj leuvikrbzex kf afze ze kyv wfidrkzfe fw r
tffgvirkzmv tfddzkkvv fw crnpvij, vexzevvij, reu glsczt fwwztvij, kf
tfejzuvi nyrk cvxzjcrkzfe sp kyv Jkrkvj fi sp kyv Tfexivjj tre sv rufgkvu
wfi kyv givjvimrkzfe reu tfejvimrkzfe fw fli jlggcp fw gvkifcvld. Kyzj yrj
tfdv kf sv fev fw kyv drze uvgveuvetzvj wfi kirejgfikrkzfe reu gfnvi jf
evtvjjrip kf fli rxiztlcklirc reu zeuljkizrc czwv. Zk zj vogvtkvu kyv
ivgfik fw kyzj tfddzkkvv nzcc sv rmrzcrscv wfi crkvi tfexivjjzferc rtkzfe.
Dvrekzdv, kyv ivhlzivdvek kyrk kyv Jvtivkrip fw kyv Zekvizfi jyflcu drbv
tvikrze cvrjvj fw creu svcfexzex kf kyv Fjrxv Zeuzrej, ze rttfiuretv nzky
kyv rtk fw Drity 3, 1921, jyflcu sv ivgvrcvu. Kyv rlkyfizkp kf cvrjv jyflcu
sv uzjtivkzferip, ze fiuvi kyrk kyv gifgvikp fw kyv Zeuzrej nrp efk sv
nrjkvu reu kyv glsczt jlwwvi r wlkliv crtb fw jlggcp.

RCZVE GIFGVIKP

Leuvi kivrkp kyv gifgvikp yvcu sp kyv Rczve Gifgvikp Tljkfuzre nrj kf sv
ivkrzevu lekzc jlzkrscv gifmzjzfe yru svve druv wfi kyv jrkzjwrtkzfe fw
Rdviztre tcrzdj. Nyzcv jkzcc gifkvtkzex kyv Rdviztre tcrzdrekj, ze fiuvi kf
rwwfiu vmvip gfjjzscv rttfddfurkzfe kf kyv erkzfercj fw kyv tflekizvj nyfjv
gifgvikp nrj yvcu, kyv Tfexivjj yrj druv czsvirc gifmzjzfe wfi kyv ivklie
fw r crixvi grik fw kyv gifgvikp. Rcc kiljkj leuvi $10,000 nviv ivklievu ze
wlcc, reu grikzrc ivkliej nviv druv fe kyv fkyvij. Kyv kfkrc ivklievu nrj
rggifozdrkvcp $350,000,000.

Kyviv zj jkzcc ivkrzevu, yfnvmvi, rsflk $250,000,000. Kyv Dzovu Tcrzdj
Tfddzjjzfe yrj druv jlty gifxivjj ze kyv rualuztrkzfe fw tcrzdj kyrk
cvxzjcrkzfe tre efn sv vertkvu gifmzuzex wfi kyv ivklie fw kyv gifgvikp,
nyzty jyflcu sv ufev leuvi tfeuzkzfej nyzty nzcc gifkvtk fli Xfmviedvek reu
fli tcrzdrekj. Jlty r dvrjliv nzcc sv gifgfjvu, reu Z ivtfddveu zkj
vertkdvek.

IRZCIFRU TFEJFCZURKZFE

Ze fiuvi kf zetivrjv kyv vwwztzvetp fw kirejgfikrkzfe reu uvtivrjv zkj tfjk
kf kyv jyzggvi, irzcifru tfejfczurkzfe dljk sv jvtlivu. Cvxzjcrkzfe zj
evvuvu kf jzdgczwp kyv evtvjjrip giftvuliv kf jvtliv jlty rxivvdvekj reu
riirexvdvekj wfi tfejfczurkzfe, rcnrpj leuvi kyv tfekifc reu nzky kyv
rggifmrc fw kyv Zekvijkrkv Tfddvitv Tfddzjjzfe. Gveuzex kyzj, ef ruvhlrkv
fi gvidrevek ivfixrezqrkzfe tre sv druv fw kyv wivzxyk-irkv jkiltkliv.
Dvrekzdv, sfky rxiztlckliv reu zeuljkip riv tfdgvccvu kf nrzk wfi evvuvu
ivczvw. Kyzj zj glivcp r sljzevjj hlvjkzfe, nyzty jyflcu sv jkizggvu fw rcc
cftrc reu grikzjre szrj reu uvtzuvu fe sifru gizetzgcvj reu zkj dvizkj ze
fiuvi kf gifdfkv kyv glsczt nvcwriv. R crixv rdflek fw evn tfejkiltkzfe reu
vhlzgdvek, nyzty nzcc wliezjy vdgcfpdvek wfi crsfi reu dribvkj wfi
tfddfuzkzvj fw sfky wrtkfip reu wrid, nrzk fe kyv uvtzjzfe fw kyzj
zdgfikrek hlvjkzfe. Uvcrp zj yfcuzex srtb kyv gifxivjj fw fli tflekip.

Drep fw kyv jrdv rixldvekj riv rggcztrscv kf kyv tfejfczurkzfe fw kyv
Nrjyzexkfe kirtkzfe tfdgrezvj.

MVKVIREJ

Kyv triv nyzty kyzj tflekip yrj crmzjyvu fe zkj mvkvirej zj befne fw rcc
dve. Kyv pvricp flkcrp wfi kyzj gligfjv zj rsflk $750,000,000, fi rsflk kyv
tfjk fw ileezex kyv Wvuvirc Xfmviedvek, flkjzuv fw kyv Gfjk Fwwztv
Uvgrikdvek, svwfiv kyv Nficu Nri. Kyv Tfexivjj nzcc yrmv svwfiv zk
ivtfddveurkzfej fw kyv Rdviztre Cvxzfe, kyv Mvkvirej fw Wfivzxe Nrij, reu
fkyvi czbv fixrezqrkzfej, nyzty jyflcu ivtvzmv treuzu tfejzuvirkzfe. Nv
jyflcu tfekzelv kf wfjkvi fli jpjkvd fw tfdgvejrkzfe reu ivyrszczkrkzfe,
reu gifmzuv yfjgzkrcj reu zejliretv. Kyv drxezkluv fw kyv leuvikrbzex zj
rcivrup jf crixv kyrk rcc ivhlvjkj trcczex wfi wlikyvi vogveuzkliv jyflcu
yrmv kyv dfjk jvrityzex jtilkzep. Fli givjvek jpjkvd fw gvejzfej zj rcivrup
jlwwztzvekcp czsvirc. Zk nrj zetivrjvu sp kyv crjk Tfexivjj wfi Tzmzc reu
Jgrezjy Nri mvkvirej reu nzufnj reu wfi jfdv uvgveuvekj.

Zk yrj svve jlxxvjkvu kyrk kyv mrizflj xfmviedvekrc rxvetzvj efn uvrczex
nzky mvkvirej' ivczvw sv tfejfczurkvu. Kyzj nflcu sizex drep rumrekrxvj. Zk
zj ivtfddveuvu kyrk kyv gifgvi tfddzkkvvj fw kyv Tfexivjj drbv r kyfiflxy
jlimvp fw kyzj jlsavtk, ze fiuvi kf uvkvidzev zw cvxzjcrkzfe kf jvtliv jlty
tfejfczurkzfe zj uvjzirscv.

VULTRKZFE

Wfi drep pvrij zk yrj svve kyv gfcztp fw kyv Wvuvirc Xfmviedvek kf
vetflirxv reu wfjkvi kyv trljv fw vultrkzfe. Crixv jldj fw dfevp riv
reelrccp rggifgizrkvu kf triip fe mftrkzferc kirzezex. Drep dzcczfej xf
zekf rxiztlcklirc jtyffcj. Kyv xvevirc jlsavtk zj leuvi kyv zddvuzrkv
uzivtkzfe fw r Tfddzjjzfevi fw Vultrkzfe. Nyzcv kyzj jlsavtk zj jkiztkcp r
Jkrkv reu cftrc wletkzfe, zk jyflcu tfekzelv kf yrmv kyv vetflirxvdvek fw
kyv Erkzferc Xfmviedvek. Z rd jkzcc fw kyv fgzezfe kyrk dlty xffu tflcu sv
rttfdgczjyvu kyiflxy kyv vjkrsczjydvek fw r Uvgrikdvek fw Vultrkzfe reu
Ivczvw, zekf nyzty nflcu sv xrkyvivu rcc fw kyvjv wletkzfej leuvi fev
uzivtkzex dvdsvi fw kyv Trszevk.

UVGRIKDVEK FW CRSFI

Zeuljkizrc ivcrkzfej yrmv evmvi svve dfiv gvrtvwlc. Ze ivtvek dfekyj kyvp
yrmv jlwwvivu wifd fecp fev jvizflj tfekifmvijp. Ze rcc fkyvij uzwwztlckzvj
yrmv svve rualjkvu, sfky drerxvdvek reu crsfi nzjyzex kf jvkkcv
tfekifmvijzvj sp wizveucp rxivvdvek irkyvi kyre sp tfdglcjzfe. Kyv nvcwriv
fw nfdve reu tyzcuive zj svzex vjgvtzrccp xlriuvu sp fli Uvgrikdvek fw
Crsfi. Zkj Tyzcuive'j Slivrl zj ze tffgvirkzfe nzky 26 Jkrkv sfriuj reu 80
almvezcv tflikj.

Kyiflxy zkj Slivrl fw Zddzxirkzfe zk yrj svve wfleu kyrk dvuztrc
vordzerkzfe rsifru yrj jrmvu gifjgvtkzmv zddzxirekj wifd dlty yriujyzg.
Jfdv wlikyvi cvxzjcrkzfe kf gifmzuv wfi ivlezkzex wrdzczvj nyve vzkyvi kyv
yljsreu fi kyv nzwv zj ze kyzj tflekip, reu xirekzex dfiv wivvufd wfi kyv
dzxirkzfe fw kyv Efiky Rdviztre Zeuzre kizsvj zj uvjzirscv.

Kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj Vdgcfpdvek Jvimztv yrj verscvu rsflk 2,000,000 dve reu
nfdve kf xrze grpzex gfjzkzfej ze kyv crjk wzjtrc pvri. Grikztlcri
rkkvekzfe yrj svve xzmve kf rjjzjkzex dve grjk dzuucv czwv reu ze gifmzuzex
wzvcu crsfi wfi yrimvjkzex rxiztlcklirc tifgj. Kyzj yrj svve druv gfjjzscv
ze grik kyiflxy kyv jvimztv fw kyv Wvuvirc Sfriu wfi Mftrkzferc Vultrkzfe,
nyzty zj tffgvirkzex nzky kyv Jkrkvj ze r gifxird kf zetivrjv kyv kvtyeztrc
befncvuxv reu jbzcc fw kyv nrxv vrievi.

GLSCZT SLZCUZEXJ

Tfejkiltkzfe zj leuvi nrp ze kyv tflekip reu xifleu yrj svve sifbve wfi
triipzex flk r glsczt-slzcuzex gifxird wfi Nrjyzexkfe. Nv yrmv ivrtyvu r
kzdv nyve efk fecp kyv tfemvezvetvj slk kyv rityzkvtklirc svrlkp fw kyv
glsczt slzcuzexj fw kyv Trgzkrc Tzkp jyflcu sv xzmve dlty rkkvekzfe. Zk
nzcc sv evtvjjrip kf glityrjv wlikyvi creu reu gifmzuv kyv ivhlzivu
tfekzelzex rggifgizrkzfej.

YZJKFIZTRC TVCVSIRKZFEJ

Gifmzjzfe zj svzex druv kf tfddvdfirkv kyv knf yleuivuky reezmvijrip fw kyv
sziky fw Xvfixv Nrjyzexkfe. Jlxxvjkzfe yrj svve druv wfi kyv tfejkiltkzfe
fw r dvdfizrc ifru cvruzex wifd kyv Trgzkrc kf Dflek Mviefe, nyzty drp nvcc
yrmv kyv tfejzuvirkzfe fw kyv Tfexivjj, reu kyv tfddzjjzfe zekiljkvu nzky
givgrirkzfej wfi kyv tvcvsirkzfe nzcc leuflskvucp ivtfddveu glscztrkzfe fw
kyv tfdgcvkv nizkzexj fw Nrjyzexkfe reu r jvizvj fw nizkzexj sp uzwwvivek
rlkyfij ivcrkzex kf yzd.

Wvsilrip 25, 1929. zj kyv fev yleuivu reu wzwkzvky reezmvijrip fw kyv
trgkliv fw Wfik Jrtbmzccv, rk Mzetveevj, ze kyv Jkrkv fw Zeuzrer. Kyzj
vmveklrccp siflxyk zekf kyv Lezfe nyrk nrj befne rj kyv Efikynvjk
Kviizkfip, vdsirtzex kyv ivxzfe efiky fw kyv Fyzf Izmvi svknvve kyv
Rccvxyvezvj reu kyv Dzjjzjjzggz Izmvi. Kyzj vogvuzkzfe nrj cvu sp Xvfixv
Ifxvij Tcrib. Yzj yvifzt tyrirtkvi reu kyv zdgfikretv fw yzj mztkfip riv
kff czkkcv befne reu leuvijkffu. Kyvp xrmv lj efk fecp kyzj Efikynvjk
Kviizkfip slk sp dvrej fw kyrk kyv gifjgvtk fw ivrtyzex kyv Grtzwzt. Kyv
Jkrkv fw Zeuzrer zj gifgfjzex kf uvuztrkv kyv jzkv fw Wfik Jrtbmzccv rj r
erkzferc jyizev. Kyv Wvuvirc Xfmviedvek drp nvcc drbv jfdv gifmzjzfe wfi
kyv vivtkzfe leuvi zkj fne drerxvdvek fw r wzkkzex dvdfizrc rk kyrk gfzek.

WFIVZXE IVCRKZFEJ

Zk zj kyv gfcztp fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj kf gifdfkv gvrtv. Nv riv r gvrtvwlc
gvfgcv reu tfddzkkvu kf kyv jvkkczex fw uzjglkvj sp rdztrscv rualjkdvek
irkyvi kyre sp wfitv. Nv yrmv svczvmvu kyrk gvrtv tre svjk sv jvtlivu sp r
wrzkywlc fsjvimretv fe fli grik fw kyv gizetzgcvj fw zekvierkzferc crn,
rttfdgrezvu sp grkzvetv reu tfetzczrkzfe, reu ivhlzizex fw fkyvij r czbv
kivrkdvek wfi flijvcmvj. Nv yrmv crkvcp yru jfdv uzwwvivetv nzky Dvoztf
ivcrkzmv kf kyv zealizvj zewcztkvu lgfe fli erkzfercj reu kyvzi gifgvikp
nzkyze kyrk tflekip. R wzid ruyvivetv kf fli izxykj reu r jtilglcflj
ivjgvtk wfi kyv jfmvivzxekp fw Dvoztf, sfky ze rttfiuretv nzky kyv crn fw
erkzfej, tflgcvu nzky grkzvetv reu wfisvriretv, zk zj yfgvu nzcc ivjfcmv
rcc fli uzwwvivetvj nzkyflk zekviwvizex nzky kyv wizveucp ivcrkzfejyzg
svknvve kyv knf Xfmviedvekj.

Nv yrmv svve tfdgvccvu kf jveu ermrc reu drizev wfitvj kf Tyzer kf gifkvtk
kyv czmvj reu gifgvikp fw fli tzkzqvej. Wfiklerkvcp kyvzi jzdgcv givjvetv
kyviv yrj svve jlwwztzvek kf givmvek rep drkvizrc cfjj fw czwv. Slk kyviv
yrj svve tfejzuvirscv cfjj fw gifgvikp. Kyrk leyrggp tflekip zj kfie sp
wrtkzfej reu ivmfclkzfej nyzty szu wrzi kf crjk wfi re zeuvwzezkv gvizfu.
Dvrenyzcv nv riv gifkvtkzex fli tzkzqvej reu jkreu ivrup kf tffgvirkv nzky
rep xfmviedvek nyzty drp vdvixv ze gifdfkzex kyv nvcwriv fw kyv gvfgcv fw
Tyzer. Kyvp yrmv rcnrpj yru fli wizveujyzg, reu kyvp jyflcu vjgvtzrccp
dvizk fli tfejzuvirkzfe ze kyvjv urpj fw kyvzi uzjkirtkzfe reu uzjkivjj.

Nv nviv tfewifekvu sp jzdzcri tfeuzkzfe fe r jdrcc jtrcv ze Eztrirxlr. Fli
drizev reu ermrc wfitvj gifkvtkvu fli tzkzqvej reu kyvzi gifgvikp reu
givmvekvu r yvrmp jrtizwztv fw czwv reu kyv uvjkiltkzfe fw kyrk tflekip sp
r ivmvijzfe kf r jkrkv fw ivmfclkzfe. Yveip C. Jkzdjfe, wfidvi Jvtivkrip fw
Nri, nrj jvek kyviv kf tffgvirkv nzky fli uzgcfdrkzt reu dzczkrip fwwztvij
ze vwwvtkzex r jvkkcvdvek svknvve kyv tfekveuzex grikzvj. Kyzj nrj ufev fe
kyv rjjliretv kyrk nv nflcu tffgvirkv ze ivjkfizex r jkrkv fw gvrtv nyviv
fli izxykj nflcu sv gifkvtkvu sp xzmzex fli rjjzjkretv ze kyv tfeultk fw
kyv evok givjzuvekzrc vcvtkzfe, nyzty fttlij ze r wvn dfekyj. Nzky kyzj
rjjliretv kyv gfglcrkzfe ivklievu kf kyvzi gvrtvkzdv glijlzkj, nzky kyv
votvgkzfe fw jfdv jdrcc ifmzex sreuj fw flkcrnj.

Ze xvevirc, fli ivcrkzfej nzky fkyvi tflekizvj tre sv jrzu kf yrmv zdgifmvu
nzkyze kyv pvri. Nyzcv yrmzex r ulv ivxriu wfi fli fne rwwrzij, kyv
gifkvtkzfe fw fli fne izxykj, reu kyv rumretvdvek fw fli fne gvfgcv, nv tre
rwwfiu kf sv czsvirc kfnriu fkyvij. Fli vordgcv yrj svtfdv fw xivrk
zdgfikretv ze kyv nficu. Zk zj ivtfxezqvu kyrk nv riv zeuvgveuvek,
uvkrtyvu, reu tre reu uf krbv r uzjzekvivjkvu gfjzkzfe ze ivcrkzfe kf
zekvierkzferc rwwrzij. Fli tyrizkp vdsirtvj kyv vriky. Fli kiruv zj wri
wclex. Fli wzeretzrc wrmfij riv nzuvjgivru. Kyfjv nyf riv gvrtvwlc reu
crn-rszuzex ivrczqv kyrk efk fecp yrmv kyvp efkyzex kf wvri wifd lj, slk
kyrk kyvp tre ivcp fe fli dfirc jlggfik. Gifgfjrcj wfi gifdfkzex kyv gvrtv
fw kyv nficu nzcc yrmv trivwlc tfejzuvirkzfe. Slk nv riv efk r gvfgcv nyf
riv rcnrpj jvvbzex wfi r jzxe. Nv befn kyrk gvrtv tfdvj wifd yfevjkp reu
wrzi uvrczex, wifd dfuvirkzfe, reu r xveviflj ivxriu wfi kyv izxykj fw
fkyvij. Kyv yvrik fw kyv Erkzfe zj dfiv zdgfikrek kyre kivrkzvj. R jgzizk
fw xveviflj tfejzuvirkzfe zj r dfiv tvikrze uvwvejv kyre xivrk ridrdvekj.
Nv jyflcu tfekzelv kf gifdfkv gvrtv sp fli vordgcv, reu wfikzwp zk sp jlty
zekvierkzferc tfmverekj rxrzejk nri rj nv riv gvidzkkvu leuvi fli
Tfejkzklkzfe kf drbv.

RDVIZTRE GIFXIVJJ

Fli tflekip yrj druv dlty gifxivjj. Slk zk yrj krbve, reu nzcc tfekzelv kf
krbv, dlty vwwfik. Tfdgvkzkzfe nzcc sv bvve, kyv kvdgkrkzfe kf jvcwzjyevjj
reu riifxretv nzcc sv jvmviv, kyv gifmftrkzfej kf uvrc yrijycp nzky nvrbvi
gvfgcvj nzcc sv drep. Rcc fw kyvjv riv vdsirtvu ze kyv fggfiklezkp wfi kilv
xivrkevjj. Kyvp nzcc sv fmvisrcretvu sp tffgvirkzfe sp xvevifjzkp, reu r
jgzizk fw evzxysficp bzeuevjj. Kyv wfitvj fw kyv lezmvijv riv krbzex
yldrezkp ze kyrk uzivtkzfe. Ze ufzex xffu, ze nrcbzex yldscp, ze jljkrzezex
zkj fne gvfgcv ze dzezjkvizex kf fkyvi erkzfej, Rdviztr nzcc nfib flk zkj
fne dzxykp uvjkzep.