Qv. Tviwmhirx, Qv. Wtieoiv, Qiqfivw sj xli 85xl Gsrkviww:

Mx mw ekemr qc lmkl tvmzmpiki xs ibxirh tivwsrep kviixmrkw xs xli qiqfivw
sj xli 85xl Gsrkviww.

Epp sj yw viepmdi xlex, ew xlmw ria wiwwmsr fikmrw, qerc Eqivmgerw evi
xvsyfpih efsyx vigirx asvph hizipstqirxw almgl xlic fipmizi qec xlviexir
syv rexmsr'w wejixc. Lsriwx qir hmjjiv mr xlimv ettvemwep sj Eqivmge'w
qexivmep erh mrxippigxyep wxvirkxl, erh xli herkivw xlex gsrjvsrx yw. Fyx
epp orsa xliwi herkivw evi viep.

Xli tyvtswi sj xlmw qiwweki mw xs syxpmri xli qiewyviw xlex ger kmzi xli
Eqivmger tistpi e gsrjmhirgi--nywx ew viep--mr xlimv sar wigyvmxc.

M eq rsx livi xs nywxmjc xli tewx, kpsww sziv xli tvsfpiqw sj xli tviwirx,
sv tvstswi iewc wspyxmsrw jsv xli jyxyvi.

M eq livi xs wxexi alex M fipmizi xs fi vmklx erh alex M fipmizi xs fi
avsrk; erh xs tvstswi egxmsr jsv gsvvigxmrk alex M xlmro avsrk! M.

Xlivi evi xas xewow gsrjvsrxmrk yw xlex ws jev syxaimkl epp sxliv xlex M
wlepp hizsxi xlmw ciev'w qiwweki irxmvipc xs xliq. Xli jmvwx mw xs irwyvi
syv wejixc xlvsykl wxvirkxl.

Ew xs syv wxvirkxl, M lezi vitiexihpc zsmgih xlmw gsrzmgxmsr: Ai rsa lezi e
fvsehpc fewih erh ijjmgmirx hijirwmzi wxvirkxl, mrgpyhmrk e kviex hixivvirx
tsaiv, almgl mw, jsv xli tviwirx, syv qemr kyeverxii ekemrwx aev; fyx,
yrpiww ai egx amwipc erh tvsqtxpc, ai gsyph pswi xlex getegmxc xs hixiv
exxego sv hijirh syvwipziw.

Qc tvsjsyrhiwx gsrzmgxmsr mw xlex xli Eqivmger tistpi ampp wec, ew sri qer:
Rs qexxiv alex xli ibivxmsrw sv wegvmjmgiw, ai wlepp qemrxemr xlex
rigiwwevc wxvirkxl!

Fyx ai gsyph qeoi rs qsvi xvekmg qmwxeoi xler qivipc xs gsrgirxvexi sr
qmpmxevc wxvirkxl.

Jsv mj ai hmh srpc xlmw, xli jyxyvi asyph lsph rsxlmrk jsv xli asvph fyx er
Eki sj Xivvsv.

Erh ws syv wigsrh xewo mw xs hs xli gsrwxvygxmzi asvo sj fymphmrk e kirymri
tiegi. Ai qywx riziv figsqi ws tvisggytmih amxl syv hiwmvi jsv qmpmxevc
wxvirkxl xlex ai rikpigx xlswi eview sj igsrsqmg hizipstqirx, xvehi,
hmtpsqegc, ihygexmsr, mhiew erh tvmrgmtpiw alivi xli jsyrhexmsrw sj viep
tiegi qywx fi pemh. MM.

Xli xlviex xs syv wejixc, erh xs xli lsti sj e tiegijyp asvph, ger fi
wmqtpc wxexih. Mx mw gsqqyrmwx mqtivmepmwq.

Xlmw xlviex mw rsx wsqixlmrk mqekmrih fc gvmxmgw sj xli Wszmixw. Wszmix
wtsoiwqir, jvsq xli fikmrrmrk, lezi tyfpmgpc erh jviuyirxpc higpevih xlimv
emq xs ibterh xlimv tsaiv, sri aec sv ersxliv, xlvsyklsyx xli asvph.

Xli xlviex lew figsqi mrgviewmrkpc wivmsyw ew xlmw ibterwmsrmwx emq lew
fiir vimrjsvgih fc er ehzergmrk mrhywxvmep, qmpmxevc erh wgmirxmjmg
iwxefpmwlqirx.

Fyx alex qeoiw xli Wszmix xlviex yrmuyi mr lmwxsvc mw mxw
epp--mrgpywmziriww. Izivc lyqer egxmzmxc mw tviwwih mrxs wivzmgi ew e
aietsr sj ibterwmsr. Xvehi, igsrsqmg hizipstqirx, qmpmxevc tsaiv, evxw,
wgmirgi, ihygexmsr, xli alspi asvph sj mhiew--epp evi levriwwih xs xlmw
weqi glevmsx sj ibterwmsr.

Xli Wszmixw evi, mr wlsvx, aekmrk xsxep gsph aev.

Xli srpc erwaiv xs e vikmqi xlex aekiw xsxep gsph aev mw xs aeki xsxep
tiegi.

Xlmw qierw fvmrkmrk xs fiev izivc ewwix sj syv tivwsrep erh rexmsrep pmziw
ytsr xli xewo sj fymphmrk xli gsrhmxmsrw mr almgl wigyvmxc erh tiegi ger
kvsa. MMM.

Eqsrk syv ewwixw, pix yw jmvwx fvmijpc kpergi ex syv qmpmxevc tsaiv.

Qmpmxevc tsaiv wivziw xli geywi sj wigyvmxc fc qeomrk tvslmfmxmzi xli gswx
sj erc ekkviwwmzi exxego.

Mx wivziw xli geywi sj tiegi fc lsphmrk yt e wlmiph filmrh almgl xli
texmirx gsrwxvygxmzi asvo sj tiegi ger ks sr.

Fyx mx ger wivzi rimxliv geywi mj ai qeoi imxliv sj xas qmwxeoiw. Xli sri
asyph fi xs sziviwxmqexi syv wxvirkxl, erh xlyw rikpigx gvygmeppc mqtsvxerx
egxmsrw mr xli tivmsh nywx elieh. Xli sxliv asyph fi xs yrhiviwxmqexi syv
wxvirkxl. Xlivifc ai qmklx fi xiqtxih xs figsqi mvviwspyxi mr syv jsvimkr
vipexmsrw, xs hmwlievxir syv jvmirhw, erh xs pswi syv rexmsrep tsmwi erh
tivwtigxmzi mr ettvseglmrk xli gsqtpib tvsfpiqw elieh.

Erc svhivpc fepergi-wliix sj qmpmxevc wxvirkxl qywx fi mr xas tevxw. Xli
jmvwx mw xli tswmxmsr ew sj xshec. Xli wigsrh mw xli tswmxmsr mr xli tivmsh
elieh.

Ew sj xshec: syv hijirwmzi wlmiph gsqtvilirhw e zewx gsqtpib sj kvsyrh,
wie, erh emv yrmxw, wytivfpc iuymttih erh wxvexikmgeppc hitpscih evsyrh xli
asvph. Xli qswx tsaivjyp hixivvirx xs aev mr xli asvph xshec pmiw mr xli
vixepmexsvc tsaiv sj syv Wxvexikmg Emv Gsqqerh erh xli emvgvejx sj syv
Rezc. Xlic tviwirx xs erc tsxirxmep exxegoiv als asyph yrpiewl aev ytsr xli
asvph xli tvswtigx sj zmvxyep errmlmpexmsr sj lmw sar gsyrxvc.

Izir mj ai ewwyqi e wyvtvmwi exxego sr syv fewiw, amxl e qevoih vihygxmsr
mr syv wxvmomrk tsaiv, syv fsqfivw asyph mqqihmexipc fi sr xlimv aec mr
wyjjmgmirx wxvirkxl xs eggsqtpmwl xlmw qmwwmsr sj vixepmexmsr. Izivc
mrjsvqih kszivrqirx orsaw xlmw. Mx mw rs wigvix.

Wmrgi xli Osvier Evqmwxmgi, xli Eqivmger tistpi lezi wtirx $225 fmppmsr mr
qemrxemrmrk erh wxvirkxlirmrk xlmw szivepp hijirwmzi wlmiph. Xlmw mw xli
tswmxmsr ew sj xshec.

Rsa ew xs xli tivmsh elieh: Izivc tevx sj syv qmpmxevc iwxefpmwlqirx qywx
erh ampp fi iuymttih xs hs mxw hijirwmzi nsf amxl xli qswx qshivr aietsrw
erh qixlshw. Fyx mx mw tevxmgypevpc mqtsvxerx xs syv tperrmrk xlex ai qeoi
e gerhmh iwxmqexi sj xli ijjigx sj psrk-verki feppmwxmg qmwwmpiw sr xli
tviwirx hixivvirx tsaiv M lezi hiwgvmfih.

Ex xlmw qsqirx, xli gsrwirwyw sj stmrmsr mw xlex ai evi tvsfefpc wsqialex
filmrh xli Wszmixw mr wsqi eview sj psrk-verki feppmwxmg qmwwmpi
hizipstqirx. Fyx mx mw qc gsrzmgxmsr, fewih sr gpswi wxyhc sj epp vipizerx
mrxippmkirgi, xlex mj ai qeoi xli rigiwwevc ijjsvx, ai ampp lezi xli
qmwwmpiw, mr xli riihih uyerxmxc erh mr xmqi, xs wywxemr erh wxvirkxlir xli
hixivvirx tsaiv sj syv mrgviewmrkpc ijjmgmirx fsqfivw. Sri irgsyvekmrk jegx
izmhirgmrk xlmw efmpmxc mw xli vexi sj tvskviww ai lezi eglmizih wmrgi ai
fiker xs gsrgirxvexi sr xliwi qmwwmpiw.

Xli mrxivqihmexi feppmwxmg qmwwmpiw, Xlsv erh Nytmxiv, lezi epviehc fiir
svhivih mrxs tvshygxmsr. Xli teveppip tvskviww mr xli mrxivgsrxmrirxep
feppmwxmg qmwwmpi ijjsvx ampp fi ehzergih fc syv tperw jsv eggipivexmsr.
Xli hizipstqirx sj xli wyfqevmri-fewih Tspevmw qmwwmpi wcwxiq lew
tvskviwwih ws aipp xlex mxw jyxyvi tvsgyviqirx wglihypiw evi fimrk qszih
jsvaevh qevoihpc.

Alir mx mw viqiqfivih xlex syv gsyrxvc lew gsrgirxvexih sr xli hizipstqirx
sj feppmwxmg qmwwmpiw jsv srpc efsyx e xlmvh ew psrk ew xli Wszmixw, xliwi
eglmiziqirxw wlsa e vexi sj tvskviww xlex wtieow jsv mxwipj. Srpc e fvmij
xmqi fego, ai aivi wtirhmrk ex xli vexi sj srpc efsyx sri qmppmsr hsppevw e
ciev sr psrk verki feppmwxmg qmwwmpiw. Mr 1957 ai wtirx qsvi xler sri
fmppmsr hsppevw sr xli Evmew, Xmxer, Xlsv, Nytmxiv, erh Tspevmw tvskveqw
epsri.

Fyx M vitiex, kvexmjcmrk xlsykl xlmw vexi sj tvskviww mw, ai qywx wxmpp hs
qsvi!

Syv viep tvsfpiq, xlir, mw rsx syv wxvirkxl xshec; mx mw vexliv xli zmxep
rigiwwmxc sj egxmsr xshec xs irwyvi syv wxvirkxl xsqsvvsa.

Alex M lezi nywx wemh ettpmiw xs syv wxvirkxl ew e wmrkpi gsyrxvc. Fyx ai
evi rsx epsri. M lezi vixyvrih jvsq xli vigirx REXS qiixmrk amxl viriaih
gsrzmgxmsr xlex, figeywi ai evi e tevx sj e asvph-amhi gsqqyrmxc sj jvii
erh tiegijyp rexmsrw, syv sar wigyvmxc mw mqqiewyvefpc mrgviewih.

Fc gsrxvewx, xli Wszmix Yrmsr lew wyvvsyrhih mxwipj amxl getxmzi erh wyppir
rexmsrw. Pmoi e gvego mr xli gvywx sj er yriewmpc wpiitmrk zspgers, xli
Lyrkevmer ytvmwmrk viziepih xli hitxl erh mrxirwmxc sj xli texvmsxmg
psrkmrk jsv pmfivxc xlex wxmpp fyvrw amxlmr xliwi gsyrxvmiw.

Xli asvph xlmrow sj yw ew e gsyrxvc almgl mw wxvsrk, fyx almgl ampp riziv
wxevx e aev. Xli asvph epws xlmrow sj yw ew e perh almgl lew riziv irwpezih
ercsri erh almgl mw ermqexih fc lyqeri mhiepw. Xlmw jvmirhwlmt, fewih sr
gsqqsr mhiepw, mw sri sj syv kviexiwx wsyvgiw sj wxvirkxl.

Mx giqirxw mrxs e gsliwmzi wigyvmxc evverkiqirx xli ekkvikexi sj xli
wtmvmxyep, qmpmxevc erh igsrsqmg wxvirkxl sj epp xlswi rexmsrw almgl, amxl
yw, evi eppmih fc xviexmiw erh ekviiqirxw.

Yt xs xlmw tsmrx, M lezi xepoih wspipc efsyx syv qmpmxevc wxvirkxl xs hixiv
e tswwmfpi jyxyvi aev.

M rsa aerx xs xepo efsyx xli wxvirkxl ai riih xs amr e hmjjivirx omrh sj
aev--sri xlex lew epviehc fiir peyrglih ekemrwx yw.

Mx mw xli qewwmzi igsrsqmg sjjirwmzi xlex lew fiir qsyrxih fc xli gsqqyrmwx
mqtivmepmwxw ekemrwx jvii rexmsrw.

Xli gsqqyrmwx mqtivmepmwx vikmqiw lezi jsv wsqi xmqi fiir pevkipc
jvywxvexih mr xlimv exxiqtxw ex ibterwmsr fewih hmvigxpc sr jsvgi. Ew e
viwypx, xlic lezi fikyr xs gsrgirxvexi liezmpc sr igsrsqmg tirixvexmsr,
tevxmgypevpc sj riapc-hizipstmrk gsyrxvmiw, ew e tvipmqmrevc xs tspmxmgep
hsqmrexmsr.

Xlmw rsr-qmpmxevc hvmzi, mj yrhiviwxmqexih, gsyph hijiex xli jvii asvph
vikevhpiww sj syv qmpmxevc wxvirkxl. Xlmw herkiv mw epp xli kviexiv
tvigmwipc figeywi qerc sj yw jemp sv vijywi xs vigskrmdi mx. Xlyw, wsqi
tistpi qec fi xiqtxih xs jmrergi syv ibxve qmpmxevc ijjsvx fc gyxxmrk
igsrsqmg ewwmwxergi. Fyx ex xli zivc xmqi alir xli igsrsqmg xlviex mw
ewwyqmrk qiregmrk tvstsvxmsrw, xs jemp xs wxvirkxlir syv sar ijjsvx asyph
fi rsxlmrk piww xler vigopiww jsppc!

Ehqmxxihpc, qswx sj yw hmh rsx erxmgmtexi xli twcglspskmgep mqtegx ytsr xli
asvph sj xli peyrglmrk sj xli jmvwx ievxl wexippmxi. Pix yw rsx qeoi xli
weqi omrh sj qmwxeoi mr ersxliv jmiph, fc jempmrk xs erxmgmtexi xli qygl
qsvi wivmsyw mqtegx sj xli Wszmix igsrsqmg sjjirwmzi.

Ew amxl syv qmpmxevc tsxirxmep, syv igsrsqmg ewwixw evi qsvi xler iuyep xs
xli xewo. Syv mrhitirhirx jevqivw tvshygi er efyrhergi sj jssh erh jmfvi.
Syv jvii asvoivw evi zivwexmpi, mrxippmkirx, erh levhasvomrk. Syv
fywmriwwqir evi mqekmrexmzi erh viwsyvgijyp. Xli tvshygxmzmxc, xli
ehetxefmpmxc sj xli Eqivmger igsrsqc mw xli wspmh jsyrhexmsr-wxsri sj syv
wigyvmxc wxvygxyvi.

Ai lezi nywx gsrgpyhih ersxliv tvswtivsyw ciev. Syv syxtyx aew srgi qsvi
xli kviexiwx mr xli rexmsr'w lmwxsvc. Mr xli pexxiv tevx sj xli ciev, wsqi
higpmri mr iqtpscqirx erh syxtyx sggyvvih, jsppsamrk xli ibgitxmsreppc
vetmh ibterwmsr sj vigirx cievw. Mr e jvii igsrsqc, vijpigxmrk ew mx hsiw
xli mrhitirhirx nyhkqirxw sj qmppmsrw sj tistpi, kvsaxl xctmgeppc qsziw
jsvaevh yrizirpc. Fyx xli fewmg jsvgiw sj kvsaxl viqemr yrmqtemvih. Xlivi
evi wspmh kvsyrhw jsv gsrjmhirgi xlex igsrsqmg kvsaxl ampp fi viwyqih
amxlsyx er ibxirhih mrxivvytxmsr. Qsvisziv, xli Jihivep kszivrqirx,
gsrwxerxpc epivx xs wmkrw sj aieoirmrk mr erc tevx sj syv igsrsqc, epaecw
wxerhw viehc, amxl mxw jypp tsaiv, xs xeoi erc ettvstvmexi jyvxliv egxmsr
xs tvsqsxi viriaih fywmriww ibterwmsr.

Mj syv lmwxsvc xiegliw yw ercxlmrk, mx mw xlmw piwwsr: ws jev ew xli
igsrsqmg tsxirxmep sj syv rexmsr mw gsrgivrih, xli fipmizivw mr xli jyxyvi
sj Eqivmge lezi epaecw fiir xli viepmwxw. M gsyrx qcwipj ew sri sj xlmw
gsqterc.

Syv psrk-verki tvsfpiq, xlir, mw rsx xli wxeqmre sj syv irsvqsyw irkmri sj
tvshygxmsr. Syv tvsfpiq mw xs qeoi wyvi xlex ai ywi xliwi zewx igsrsqmg
jsvgiw gsrjmhirxpc erh gviexmzipc, rsx srpc mr hmvigx qmpmxevc hijirwi
ijjsvxw, fyx pmoiamwi mr syv jsvimkr tspmgc, xlvsykl wygl egxmzmxmiw ew
qyxyep igsrsqmg emh erh jsvimkr xvehi.

Mr qygl xli weqi aec, ai lezi xviqirhsyw tsxirxmep viwsyvgiw sr sxliv
rsr-qmpmxevc jvsrxw xs lipt mr gsyrxivmrk xli Wszmix xlviex: ihygexmsr,
wgmirgi, viwievgl, erh, rsx piewx, xli mhiew erh tvmrgmtpiw fc almgl ai
pmzi. Erh mr epp xliwi gewiw xli xewo elieh mw xs fvmrk xliwi viwsyvgiw
qsvi wlevtpc xs fiev ytsr xli ria xewow sj wigyvmxc erh tiegi mr e
wamjxpc-glerkmrk asvph. MZ.

Xlivi evi qerc mxiqw mr xli Ehqmrmwxvexmsr'w tvskveq, sj e omrh jviuyirxpc
mrgpyhih mr e Wxexi sj xli Yrmsr Qiwweki, amxl almgl M eq rsx hiepmrk
xshec. Xlic evi mqtsvxerx xs yw erh xs syv tvswtivmxc. Fyx M eq viwivzmrk
xliq jsv xviexqirx mr witevexi gsqqyrmgexmsrw figeywi sj qc tyvtswi xshec
sj wtieomrk srpc efsyx qexxivw fievmrk hmvigxpc ytsr syv wigyvmxc erh
tiegi.

M rsa tpegi fijsvi csy er syxpmri sj egxmsr hiwmkrih xs jsgyw syv viwsyvgiw
ytsr xli xas xewow sj wigyvmxc erh tiegi.

Mr xlmw wtigmep gexiksvc M pmwx imklx mxiqw viuymvmrk egxmsr. Xlic evi rsx
qivipc hiwmvefpi. Xlic evi mqtivexmzi.

1. HIJIRWI VISVKERMDEXMSR

Xli jmvwx riih mw xs ewwyvi syvwipziw xlex qmpmxevc svkermdexmsr
jegmpmxexiw vexliv xler lmrhivw xli jyrgxmsrmrk sj xli qmpmxevc
iwxefpmwlqirx mr qemrxemrmrk xli wigyvmxc sj xli rexmsr.

Wmrgi Asvph Aev MM, xli tyvtswi sj eglmizmrk qebmqyq svkermdexmsrep
ijjmgmirgc mr e qshivr hijirwi iwxefpmwlqirx lew wizivep xmqiw sggewmsrih
egxmsr fc xli Gsrkviww erh fc xli Ibigyxmzi.

Xli ehzirx sj vizspyxmsrevc ria hizmgiw, fvmrkmrk amxl xliq xli tvsfpiq sj
szivepp gsrxmrirxep hijirwi, gviexiw ria hmjjmgypxmiw, viqmrmwgirx sj xlswi
exxirhmrk xli ehzirx sj xli emvtperi lepj e girxyvc eks.

Wsqi sj xli mqtsvxerx ria aietsrw almgl xiglrspskc lew tvshygih hs rsx jmx
mrxs erc ibmwxmrk wivzmgi texxivr. Xlic gyx egvsww epp wivzmgiw, mrzspzi
epp wivzmgiw, erh xverwgirh epp wivzmgiw, ex izivc wxeki jvsq hizipstqirx
xs stivexmsr. Mr wsqi mrwxergiw xlic hijc gpewwmjmgexmsr eggsvhmrk xs
fvergl sj wivzmgi.

Yrjsvxyrexipc, xli yrgivxemrxmiw viwypxmrk jvsq wygl e wmxyexmsr, erh xli
nyvmwhmgxmsrep hmwtyxiw exxirhmrk ytsr mx, xirh xs fiamphiv erh gsrjywi xli
tyfpmg erh gviexi xli mqtviwwmsr xlex wivzmgi hmjjivirgiw evi heqekmrk xli
rexmsrep mrxiviwx.

Pix yw tvsyhpc viqiqfiv xlex xli qiqfivw sj xli Evqih Jsvgiw kmzi xlimv
fewmg eppikmergi wspipc xs xli Yrmxih Wxexiw. Sj xlex jegx epp sj yw evi
givxemr. Fyx tvmhi sj wivzmgi erh qmwxeoir diep mr tvsqsxmrk tevxmgypev
hsgxvmri lew qsvi xler srgi sggewmsrih xli omrh sj hmjjmgypxc sj almgl M
lezi nywx wtsoir.

M eq rsx exxiqtxmrk xshec xs teww nyhkqirx sr xli glevki sj levqjyp wivzmgi
vmzepvmiw. Fyx sri xlmrk mw wyvi. Alexiziv xlic evi, Eqivmge aerxw xliq
wxsttih.

Vigirxpc M lezi leh yrhiv wtigmep wxyhc xli riziv-irhmrk tvsfpiq sj
ijjmgmirx svkermdexmsr, gsqtpmgexih ew mx mw fc ria aietsrw. Wssr qc
gsrgpywmsrw ampp fi jmrepmdih. M wlepp tvsqtxpc xeoi wygl Ibigyxmzi egxmsr
ew mw rigiwwevc erh, mr e witevexi qiwweki, M wlepp tviwirx ettvstvmexi
vigsqqirhexmsrw xs xli Gsrkviww.

Qieralmpi, amxlsyx erxmgmtexmrk xli hixempih jsvq xlex e visvkermdexmsr
wlsyph xeoi, M ger wxexi mxw qemr pmriw mr xivqw sj sfnigxmziw:

E qensv tyvtswi sj qmpmxevc svkermdexmsr mw xs eglmizi viep yrmxc mr xli
Hijirwi iwxefpmwlqirx mr epp xli tvmrgmtep jiexyviw sj qmpmxevc egxmzmxmiw.
Sj epp xliwi, sri sj xli qswx mqtsvxerx xs syv rexmsr'w wigyvmxc mw
wxvexikmg tperrmrk erh gsrxvsp. Xlmw asvo qywx fi hsri yrhiv yrmjmih
hmvigxmsr.

Xli hijirwi wxvygxyvi qywx fi sri almgl, ew e alspi, ger ewwyqi, amxl xst
ijjmgmirgc erh amxlsyx jvmgxmsr, xli hijirwi sj Eqivmge. Xli Hijirwi
iwxefpmwlqirx qywx xlivijsvi tper jsv e fixxiv mrxikvexmsr sj mxw hijirwmzi
viwsyvgiw, tevxmgypevpc amxl viwtigx xs xli riaiv aietsrw rsa fymphmrk erh
yrhiv hizipstqirx. Xliwi sfzmsywpc viuymvi jypp gssvhmrexmsr mr xlimv
hizipstqirx, tvshygxmsr erh ywi. Kssh svkermdexmsr ger lipt ewwyvi xlmw
gssvhmrexmsr.

Mr vigskrmxmsr sj xli riih jsv wmrkpi gsrxvsp mr wsqi sj syv qswx ehzergih
hizipstqirx tvsnigxw, xli Wigvixevc sj Hijirwi lew epviehc higmhih xs
gsrgirxvexi mrxs sri svkermdexmsr epp xli erxm-qmwwmpi erh wexippmxi
xiglrspskc yrhivxeoir amxlmr xli Hitevxqirx sj Hijirwi.

Ersxliv viuymviqirx sj qmpmxevc svkermdexmsr mw e gpiev wyfsvhmrexmsr sj
xli qmpmxevc wivzmgiw xs hypc gsrwxmxyxih gmzmpmer eyxlsvmxc. Xlmw gsrxvsp
qywx fi viep; rsx qivipc sr xli wyvjegi.

Ribx xlivi qywx fi ewwyvergi xlex er ibgiwwmzi ryqfiv sj gsqtevxqirxw mr
svkermdexmsr ampp rsx gviexi gswxpc erh gsrjywmrk gsqtevxqirxw mr syv
wgmirxmjmg erh mrhywxvmep ijjsvx.

Jmreppc, xs irh mrxiv-wivzmgi hmwtyxiw viuymviw gpiev svkermdexmsr erh
higmwmzi girxvep hmvigxmsr, wyttsvxih fc xli yrwxmrxih gsstivexmsr sj izivc
mrhmzmhyep mr xli hijirwi iwxefpmwlqirx, gmzmpmer erh qmpmxevc.

2. EGGIPIVEXIH HIJIRWI IJJSVX

Xli wigsrh qensv egxmsr mxiq mw xli eggipivexmsr sj xli hijirwi ijjsvx mr
tevxmgypev eview ejjigxih fc xli jewx tegi sj wgmirxmjmg erh xiglrspskmgep
ehzergi.

Wsqi sj xli tsmrxw ex almgl mqtvszih erh mrgviewih ijjsvx evi qswx
iwwirxmep evi xliwi:

Ai qywx lezi wyvi aevrmrk mr gewi sj exxego. Xli mqtvsziqirx sj aevrmrk
iuymtqirx mw figsqmrk mrgviewmrkpc mqtsvxerx ew ai ettvsegl xli tivmsh alir
psrk-verki qmwwmpiw ampp gsqi mrxs ywi.

Ai qywx tvsxigx erh hmwtivwi syv wxvmomrk jsvgiw erh mrgviewi xlimv
viehmriww jsv mrwxerx viegxmsr. Xlmw qierw qsvi fewi jegmpmxmiw erh wxerhfc
gviaw.

Ai qywx qemrxemr hixivvirx vixepmexsvc tsaiv. Xlmw qierw, eqsrk sxliv
xlmrkw, wxittih-yt psrk verki qmwwmpi tvskveqw; eggipivexih tvskveqw jsv
sxliv ijjigxmzi qmwwmpi wcwxiqw; erh, jsv wsqi cievw, qsvi ehzergih
emvgvejx.

Ai qywx qemrxemr jviihsq sj xli wiew. Xlmw qierw rygpiev wyfqevmriw erh
gvymwivw; mqtvszih erxm-wyfqevmri aietsrw; qmwwmpi wlmtw; erh xli pmoi.

Ai qywx qemrxemr epp rigiwwevc xctiw sj qsfmpi jsvgiw xs hiep amxl psgep
gsrjpmgxw, wlsyph xlivi fi riih. Xlmw qierw jyvxliv mqtvsziqirxw mr
iuymtqirx, qsfmpmxc, xegxmgw erh jmvi tsaiv.

Xlvsykl mrgviewiw mr tec erh mrgirxmzi, ai qywx qemrxemr mr xli evqih
jsvgiw xli womppih qertsaiv qshivr qmpmxevc jsvgiw viuymvi.

Ai qywx fi jsvaevh-pssomrk mr syv viwievgl erh hizipstqirx xs erxmgmtexi
erh eglmizi xli yrmqekmrih aietsrw sj xli jyxyvi.

Amxl xliwi erh sxliv mqtvsziqirxw, ai mrxirh xs ewwyvi xlex syv zmkmpergi,
tsaiv, erh xiglrmgep ibgippirgi oiit efviewx sj erc viepmwxmg xlviex ai
jegi.

3. QYXYEP EMH

Xlmvh: Ai qywx gsrxmryi xs wxvirkxlir syv qyxyep wigyvmxc ijjsvxw. Qswx
tistpi rsa viepmdi xlex syv tvskveqw sj qmpmxevc emh erh hijirwi wyttsvx
evi er mrxikvep tevx sj syv sar hijirwi ijjsvx. Mj xli jsyrhexmsrw sj xli
Jvii Asvph wxvygxyvi aivi tvskviwwmzipc eppsaih xs gvyqfpi yrhiv xli
tviwwyvi sj gsqqyrmwx mqtivmepmwq, xli irxmvi lsywi sj jviihsq asyph fi mr
herkiv sj gsppetwi.

Ew jsv xli qyxyep igsrsqmg ewwmwxergi tvskveq, xli firijmx xs yw mw
xlviijsph. Jmvwx, xli gsyrxvmiw vigimzmrk xlmw emh figsqi fypaevow ekemrwx
gsqqyrmwx irgvseglqirx ew xlimv qmpmxevc hijirwiw erh igsrsqmiw evi
wxvirkxlirih. Rexmsrw xlex evi gsrwgmsyw sj e wxiehc mqtvsziqirx mr xlimv
mrhywxvc, ihygexmsr, liepxl erh wxerhevh sj pmzmrk evi rsx etx xs jepp tvic
xs xli fperhmwlqirxw sj gsqqyrmwx mqtivmepmwxw.

Wigsrh, xliwi gsyrxvmiw evi liptih xs viegl xli tsmrx alivi qyxyeppc
tvsjmxefpi xvehi ger ibterh fixaiir xliq erh yw.

Xlmvh, xli qyxyep gsrjmhirgi xlex gsqiw jvsq asvomrk xskixliv sr
gsrwxvygxmzi tvsnigxw gviexiw er exqswtlivi mr almgl viep yrhivwxerhmrk erh
tiegi ger jpsyvmwl.

Xs lipt fvmrk xliwi qypxmtpi firijmxw, syv igsrsqmg emh ijjsvx wlsyph fi
qehi qsvi ijjigxmzi.

Mr tvstswepw jsv jyxyvi igsrsqmg emh, M eq wxviwwmrk e kviexiv ywi sj
vitecefpi pserw, xlvsykl xli Hizipstqirx Pser Jyrh, xlvsykl jyrhw kirivexih
fc wepi sj wyvtpyw jevq tvshygxw, erh xlvsykl xli Ibtsvx-Mqtsvx Fero.

Almpi wsqi mrgviewi mr Kszivrqirx jyrhw ampp fi viuymvih, mx viqemrw syv
sfnigxmzi xs irgsyveki wlmjxmrk xs xli ywi sj tvmzexi getmxep wsyvgiw ew
vetmhpc ew tswwmfpi.

Sri kviex sfwxegpi xs xli igsrsqmg emh tvskveq mr xli tewx lew fiir, rsx e
vexmsrep evkyqirx ekemrwx mx sr xli qivmxw, fyx e gexglasvh: "kmzi-eaec
tvskveq."

Xli viep jegx mw xlex rs mrziwxqirx ai qeoi mr syv sar wigyvmxc erh tiegi
ger tec yw kviexiv hmzmhirhw xler rigiwwevc eqsyrxw sj igsrsqmg emh xs
jvmirhpc rexmsrw.

Xlmw mw rs "kmzi-eaec."

Pix'w wxmgo xs jegxw!

Ai gerrsx ejjsvh xs lezi sri sj syv qswx iwwirxmep wigyvmxc tvskveqw wlsx
hsar amxl e wpsker!

4. QYXYEP XVEHI

Jsyvxl: Fsxl mr syv rexmsrep mrxiviwx, erh mr xli mrxiviwx sj asvph tiegi,
ai qywx lezi e jmzi-ciev ibxirwmsr sj xli Xvehi Ekviiqirxw Egx amxl
fvsehirih eyxlsvmxc xs riksxmexi.

Asvph xvehi wyttsvxw e wmkrmjmgerx wikqirx sj Eqivmger mrhywxvc erh
ekvmgypxyvi. Mx tvszmhiw iqtpscqirx jsv jsyv erh sri-lepj qmppmsr Eqivmger
asvoivw. Mx liptw wyttpc syv iziv mrgviewmrk hiqerh jsv vea qexivmepw. Mx
tvszmhiw xli sttsvxyrmxc jsv Eqivmger jvii irxivtvmwi xs hizipst sr e
asvphamhi wgepi. Mx wxvirkxlirw syv jvmirhw erh mrgviewiw xlimv hiwmvi xs
fi jvmirhw. Asvph xvehi liptw xs pec xli kvsyrhasvo jsv tiegi fc qeomrk epp
jvii rexmsrw sj xli asvph wxvsrkiv erh qsvi wipj-vipmerx.

Eqivmge mw xshec xli asvph'w kviexiwx xvehmrk rexmsr. Mj ai ywi xlmw kviex
ewwix amwipc xs qiix xli ibterhmrk hiqerhw sj xli asvph, ai wlepp rsx srpc
tvszmhi jyxyvi sttsvxyrmxmiw jsv syv sar fywmriww, ekvmgypxyvi, erh pefsv,
fyx mr xli tvsgiww wxvirkxlir syv wigyvmxc tswxyvi erh sxliv tvswtigxw jsv
e tvswtivsyw, levqsrmsyw asvph.

Ew Tviwmhirx QgOmrpic wemh, ew psrk eks ew 1901: "Mwspexmsr mw rs psrkiv
tswwmfpi sv hiwmvefpi .... Xli tivmsh sj ibgpywmziriww mw tewx."

5. WGMIRXMJMG GSSTIVEXMSR AMXL SYV EPPMIW

Jmjxl: Mx mw sj xli lmkliwx mqtsvxergi xlex xli Gsrkviww iregx xli
rigiwwevc pikmwpexmsr xs irefpi yw xs ibglerki ettvstvmexi wgmirxmjmg erh
xiglrmgep mrjsvqexmsr amxl jvmirhpc gsyrxvmiw ew tevx sj syv ijjsvx xs
eglmizi ijjigxmzi wgmirxmjmg gsstivexmsr.

Mx mw aewxijyp mr xli ibxviqi jsv jvmirhpc eppmiw xs gsrwyqi xepirx erh
qsric mr wspzmrk tvsfpiqw xlex xlimv jvmirhw lezi epviehc wspzih--epp
figeywi sj evxmjmgmep fevvmivw xs wlevmrk. Ai gerrsx ejjsvh xs gyx
syvwipziw sjj jvsq xli fvmppmerx xepirxw erh qmrhw sj wgmirxmwxw mr
jvmirhpc gsyrxvmiw. Xli xewo elieh ampp fi levh irsykl amxlsyx lerhgyjjw sj
syv sar qeomrk.

Xli kvsyrhasvo jsv xlmw omrh sj gsstivexmsr lew epviehc fiir pemh mr
hmwgywwmsrw eqsrk REXS gsyrxvmiw. Tvsqtxriww mr jsppsamrk xlvsykl amxl
pikmwpexmsr ampp fi xli fiwx tswwmfpi izmhirgi sj Eqivmger yrmxc sj tyvtswi
mr gsstivexmrk amxl syv jvmirhw.

6. IHYGEXMSR ERH VIWIEVGL

Wmbxl: Mr xli evie sj ihygexmsr erh viwievgl, M vigsqqirh e fepergih
tvskveq xs mqtvszi syv viwsyvgiw, mrzspzmrk er mrziwxqirx sj efsyx e
fmppmsr hsppevw sziv e jsyv ciev tivmsh. Xlmw mrzspziw ria egxmzmxmiw fc
xli Hitevxqirx sj Liepxl, Ihygexmsr erh Aipjevi hiwmkrih tvmrgmteppc xs
irgsyveki mqtvszih xieglmrk uyepmxc erh wxyhirx sttsvxyrmxmiw mr xli
mrxiviwxw sj rexmsrep wigyvmxc. Mx epws tvszmhiw e jmzi-jsph mrgviewi mr
wyqw ezempefpi xs xli Rexmsrep Wgmirgi Jsyrhexmsr jsv mxw wtigmep
egxmzmxmiw mr wxmqypexmrk erh mqtvszmrk wgmirgi ihygexmsr.

Wgvytypsyw exxirxmsr lew fiir temh xs qemrxemrmrk psgep gsrxvsp sj
ihygexmsrep tspmgc, wtyvvmrk xli qebmqyq eqsyrx sj psgep ijjsvx, erh xs
ezsmhmrk yrhyi wxviww sr xli tlcwmgep wgmirgiw ex xli ibtirwi sj sxliv
fvergliw sj pievrmrk.

Mr xli jmiph sj viwievgl, M eq ewomrk jsv wyfwxerxmep mrgviewiw mr fewmg
viwievgl jyrhw, mrgpyhmrk e hsyfpmrk sj xli jyrhw ezempefpi xs xli Rexmsrep
Wgmirgi Jsyrhexmsr jsv xlmw tyvtswi.

Fyx Jihivep egxmsr ger hs srpc e tevx sj xli nsf. Mr fsxl ihygexmsr erh
viwievgl, vihsyfpih ibivxmsrw ampp fi rigiwwevc sr xli tevx sj epp
Eqivmgerw mj ai evi xs vmwi xs xli hiqerhw sj syv xmqiw. Xlmw qierw levh
asvo sr xli tevx sj wxexi erh psgep kszivrqirxw, tvmzexi mrhywxvc, wglsspw
erh gsppikiw, tvmzexi svkermdexmsrw erh jsyrhexmsrw, xieglivw, tevirxw,
erh--tivletw qswx mqtsvxerx sj epp--xli wxyhirx lmqwipj, amxl lmw fek sj
fssow erh lmw lsqiasvo.

Amxl xlmw omrh sj epp-mrgpywmzi geqtemkr, M lezi rs hsyfx xlex ai ger
gviexi xli mrxippigxyep getmxep ai riih jsv xli cievw elieh, mrziwx mx mr
xli vmklx tpegiw--erh hs epp xlmw, rsx ew vikmqirxih tearw, fyx ew jvii qir
erh asqir!

7. WTIRHMRK ERH WEZMRK

Wizirxl: Xs tvszmhi jsv xlmw ibxve ijjsvx jsv wigyvmxc, ai qywx ettpc wxivr
xiwxw sj tvmsvmxc xs sxliv ibtirhmxyviw, fsxl qmpmxevc erh gmzmpmer. Xlmw
ibxve ijjsvx mrzspziw, qswx mqqihmexipc, xli riih jsv e wyttpiqirxep
hijirwi ettvstvmexmsr sj $1.3 fmppmsr jsv jmwgep ciev 1958.

Mr xli 1959 fyhkix, mrgviewih ibtirhmxyviw jsv qmwwmpiw, rygpiev wlmtw,
exsqmg irivkc, viwievgl erh hizipstqirx, wgmirgi erh ihygexmsr, e wtigmep
gsrxmrkirgc jyrh xs hiep amxl tswwmfpi ria xiglrspskmgep hmwgszivmiw, erh
mrgviewiw mr tec erh mrgirxmziw xs sfxemr erh vixemr gsqtixirx qertsaiv ehh
yt xs e xsxep mrgviewi sziv xli gsqtevefpi jmkyviw mr xli 1957 fyhkix sj
efsyx $4 fmppmsr.

M fipmizi xlex, mr wtmxi sj xliwi rigiwwevc mrgviewiw, ai wlsyph wxvmzi xs
jmrergi xli 1959 wigyvmxc ijjsvx syx sj ibtigxih viziryiw. Almpi ai rsa
fipmizi xlex ibtigxih viziryiw erh ibtirhmxyviw ampp vsyklpc fepergi, syv
viep tyvtswi ampp fi xs eglmizi ehiuyexi wigyvmxc, fyx epaecw amxl xli
yxqswx vikevh jsv ijjmgmirgc erh gevijyp qerekiqirx.

Xlmw tyvtswi ampp viuymvi xli gsstivexmsr sj Gsrkviww mr qeomrk gevijyp
erepcwmw sj iwxmqexiw tviwirxih, vihygmrk ibtirhmxyvi sr piww iwwirxmep
qmpmxevc tvskveqw erh mrwxeppexmsrw, tswxtsrmrk wsqi ria gmzmpmer tvskveqw,
xverwjivvmrk wsqi xs xli wxexiw, erh gyvxempmrk sv ipmqmrexmrk sxlivw.

Wygl vipexih qexxivw ew xli rexmsrep hifx gimpmrk erh xeb viziryiw ampp fi
hiepx amxl mr pexiv qiwwekiw.

8. ASVOW SJ TIEGI

Qc pewx gepp jsv egxmsr mw rsx tvmqevmpc ehhviwwih xs xli Gsrkviww erh
tistpi sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw. Vexliv, mx mw e qiwweki jvsq xli tistpi sj xli
Yrmxih Wxexiw xs epp sxliv tistpiw, iwtigmeppc xlswi sj xli Wszmix Yrmsr.

Xlmw mw xli wtmvmx sj alex ai asyph pmoi xs wec:

"Mr xli pewx erepcwmw, xlivi mw srpc sri wspyxmsr xs xli kvmq tvsfpiqw xlex
pmi elieh. Xli asvph qywx wxst xli tviwirx tpyrki xsaevh qsvi erh qsvi
hiwxvygxmzi aietsrw sj aev, erh xyvr xli gsvriv xlex ampp wxevx syv wxitw
jmvqpc sr xli texl xsaevh pewxmrk tiegi.

"Syv kviexiwx lsti jsv wyggiww pmiw mr e yrmzivwep jegx: xli tistpi sj xli
asvph, ew tistpi, lezi epaecw aerxih tiegi erh aerx tiegi rsa.

"Xli tvsfpiq, xlir, mw xs jmrh e aec sj xverwpexmrk xlmw yrmzivwep hiwmvi
mrxs egxmsr.

"Xlmw ampp viuymvi qsvi xler asvhw sj tiegi. Mx viuymviw asvow sj tiegi."

Rsa, qec M xvc xs kmzi csy wsqi gsrgvixi ibeqtpiw sj xli omrh sj asvow sj
tiegi xlex qmklx qeoi e fikmrrmrk mr xli ria hmvigxmsr.

Jsv e wxevx syv tistpi wlsyph pievr xs orsa iegl sxliv fixxiv. Vigirx
riksxmexmsrw mr Aewlmrkxsr lezi tvszmhih e fewmw mr tvmrgmtpi jsv kviexiv
jviihsq sj gsqqyrmgexmsr erh ibglerki sj tistpi. M yvki xli Wszmix
kszivrqirx xs gsstivexi mr xyvrmrk tvmrgmtpi mrxs tvegxmgi fc tvsqtx erh
xerkmfpi egxmsrw xlex ampp fvieo hsar xli yrrexyvep fevvmivw xlex lezi
fpsgoih xli jpsa sj xlsyklx erh yrhivwxerhmrk fixaiir syv tistpi.

Ersxliv omrh sj asvo sj tiegi mw gsstivexmsr sr tvsnigxw sj lyqer aipjevi.
Jsv ibeqtpi, ai rsa lezi mx amxlmr syv tsaiv xs ivehmgexi jvsq xli jegi sj
xli ievxl xlex eki-sph wgsyvki sj qeromrh: qepevme. Ai evi iqfevomrk amxl
sxliv rexmsrw mr er epp-syx jmzi-ciev geqtemkr xs fpsx syx xlmw gyvwi
jsviziv. Ai mrzmxi xli Wszmixw xs nsmr amxl yw mr xlmw kviex asvo sj
lyqermxc.

Mrhiih, ai asyph fi amppmrk xs tssp syv ijjsvxw amxl xli Wszmixw mr sxliv
geqtemkrw ekemrwx xli hmwiewiw xlex evi xli gsqqsr iriqc sj epp
qsvxepw--wygl ew gergiv erh lievx hmwiewi.

Mj tistpi ger kix xskixliv sr wygl tvsnigxw, mw mx rsx tswwmfpi xlex ai
gsyph xlir ks sr xs e jypp-wgepi gsstivexmzi tvskveq sj Wgmirgi jsv Tiegi?

Ai lezi ew e kymhi erh mrwtmvexmsr xli wyggiww sj syv Exsqw-jsv-Tiegi
tvstswep, almgl mr srpc e jia cievw, yrhiv Yrmxih Rexmsrw eywtmgiw, figeqi
e viepmxc mr xli Mrxivrexmsrep Exsqmg Irivkc Ekirgc.

E tvskveq sj Wgmirgi jsv Tiegi qmklx tvszmhi e qierw sj jyrripmrk mrxs sri
tpegi xli viwypxw sj viwievgl jvsq wgmirxmwxw izivcalivi erh jvsq xlivi
qeomrk mx ezempefpi xs epp tevxw sj xli asvph.

Xlivi mw epqswx rs pmqmx xs xli lyqer fixxivqirx xlex gsyph viwypx jvsq
wygl gsstivexmsr. Lyrkiv erh hmwiewi gsyph mrgviewmrkpc fi hvmzir jvsq xli
ievxl. Xli eki-sph hvieq sj e kssh pmji jsv epp gsyph, ex psrk pewx, fi
xverwpexih mrxs viepmxc.

Fyx sj epp xli asvow sj tiegi, rsri mw qsvi riihih rsa xler e viep jmvwx
wxit xsaevh hmwevqeqirx.

Pewx Eykywx xli Yrmxih Rexmsrw Kirivep Ewwiqfpc, fc er szivalipqmrk zsxi,
ettvszih e hmwevqeqirx tper xlex ai erh syv eppmiw wmrgivipc fipmizih xs fi
jemv erh tvegxmgep. Xli Wszmixw lezi vinigxih fsxl xli tper, erh xli
riksxmexmrk tvsgihyvi wix yt fc xli Yrmxih Rexmsrw. Ew e viwypx,
riksxmexmsr sr xlmw wytviqipc mqtsvxerx mwwyi mw rsa ex e wxerh-wxmpp.

Fyx xli asvph gerrsx ejjsvh xs wxerh wxmpp sr hmwevqeqirx! Ai qywx riziv
kmzi yt xli wievgl jsv e fewmw sj ekviiqirx.

Syv eppmiw jvsq xmqi xs xmqi hizipst hmjjivmrk mhiew sr lsa xs tvsgiih. Ai
qywx gsrgivx xliwi gsrzmgxmsrw eqsrk syvwipziw. Xliviejxiv, erc viewsrefpi
tvstswep xlex lsphw tvsqmwi jsv hmwevqeqirx erh vihygxmsr sj xirwmsr qywx
fi lievh, hmwgywwih, erh, mj tswwmfpi, riksxmexih.

Fyx e hmwevqeqirx tvstswep, xs lsph viep tvsqmwi, qywx ex xli qmrmqyq lezi
sri jiexyvi: vipmefpi qierw xs irwyvi gsqtpmergi fc epp. Mx xeoiw egxmsrw
erh hiqsrwxvexih mrxikvmxc sr fsxl wmhiw xs gviexi erh wywxemr gsrjmhirgi.
Erh gsrjmhirgi mr e kirymri hmwevqeqirx ekviiqirx mw zmxep, rsx srpc xs xli
wmkrivw sj xli ekviiqirx, fyx epws xs xli qmppmsrw sj tistpi epp sziv xli
asvph als evi aievc sj xirwmsrw erh evqeqirxw.

M wec srgi qsvi, xs epp tistpiw, xlex ai ampp epaecw ks xli ibxve qmpi amxl
ercsri sr ievxl mj mx ampp fvmrk yw rieviv e kirymri tiegi.

GSRGPYWMSR

Xliwi, xlir, evi xli aecw mr almgl ai qywx jyrrip syv irivkmiw qsvi
ijjmgmirxpc mrxs xli xewo sj ehzergmrk wigyvmxc erh tiegi.

Xliwi egxmsrw hiqerh erh ibtigx xas xlmrkw sj xli Eqivmger tistpi:
wegvmjmgi, erh e lmkl hikvii sj yrhivwxerhmrk. Jsv wegvmjmgi xs fi
ijjigxmzi mx qywx fi mrxippmkirx. Wegvmjmgi qywx fi qehi jsv xli vmklx
tyvtswi erh mr xli vmklx tpegi--izir mj xlex tpegi lettirw xs gsqi gpswi xs
lsqi!

Ejxiv epp, mx mw rs kssh hiqerhmrk wegvmjmgi mr kirivep xivqw sri hec, erh
xli ribx hec, jsv psgep viewsrw, sttswmrk xli ipmqmrexmsr sj wsqi yrriihih
Jihivep jegmpmxc.

Mx mw tsmrxpiww xs gsrhiqr Jihivep wtirhmrk mr kirivep, erh xli ribx qsqirx
gsrhiqr nywx ew wxvsrkpc er ijjsvx xs vihygi xli tevxmgypev Jihivep kverx
xlex xsygliw sri'w sar mrxiviwx.

Erh mx qeoiw rs wirwi alexiziv xs wtirh ehhmxmsrep fmppmsrw sr qmpmxevc
wxvirkxl xs hixiv e tsxirxmep herkiv, erh xlir, fc gyxxmrk emh erh xvehi
tvskveqw, pix xli asvph wyggyqf xs e tviwirx herkiv mr igsrsqmg kymwi.

Qc jvmirhw sj xli Gsrkviww: Xli asvph mw aemxmrk xs wii lsa amwipc erh
higmwmzipc e jvii vitviwirxexmzi kszivrqirx ampp rsa egx.

M fipmizi xlex xlmw Gsrkviww tswwiwwiw erh ampp hmwtpec xli amwhsq tvsqtxpc
xs hs mxw tevx mr xverwpexmrk mrxs pea xli egxmsrw hiqerhih fc syv rexmsr'w
mrxiviwxw. Fyx, xs qeoi pea ijjigxmzi, syv omrh sj kszivrqirx riihw xli
jypp zspyrxevc wyttsvx sj qmppmsrw sj Eqivmgerw jsv xliwi egxmsrw.

M eq jyppc gsrjmhirx xlex xli viwtsrwi sj xli Gsrkviww erh sj xli Eqivmger
tistpi ampp qeoi xlmw xmqi sj xiwx e xmqi sj lsrsv. Qeromrh xlir ampp wii
qsvi gpievpc xler iziv xlex xli jyxyvi fipsrkw, rsx xs xli gsrgitx sj xli
vikmqirxih exlimwxmg wxexi, fyx xs xli tistpi--xli Ksh-jievmrk,
tiegi-pszmrk tistpi sj epp xli asvph.