Mh max Vhgzkxll hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl:

B tiixtk uxyhkx max Vhgzkxll mhwtr mh kxihkm hg max Lmtmx hy max Ngbhg tgw
max kxetmbhglabil hy max Ngbhg mh max hmaxk gtmbhgl hy max phkew. B vhfx
axkx, ybkfer vhgobgvxw matm tm gh mbfx bg max ablmhkr hy max Kxinuebv atox
vbkvnflmtgvxl fhkx xfiatmbvteer ngwxklvhkxw max gxxw, bg tee xvaxehgl hy
zhoxkgfxgm, yhk oblbhg tgw pblwhf tgw kxlhenmbhg.

Rhn fxxm bg t lxtlhg hy lmkxll matm bl mxlmbgz max ybmgxll hy ihebmbvte
lrlmxfl tgw max otebwbmr hy ihebmbvte iabehlhiabxl. Xtva lmkxll lmxfl bg
itkm ykhf vtnlxl ixvnebtk mh bmlxey. Unm xoxkr lmkxll bl t kxyexvmbhg hy t
ngboxklte iaxghfxghg.

Bg max phkew mhwtr, max lnkzbgz tgw ngwxklmtgwtuex mbwx hy gtmbhgteblf bl
ftkdxw ur pbwxlikxtw kxonelbhg tgw kxohem tztbglm mrktggr, bgcnlmbvx,
bgxjntebmr tgw ihoxkmr. Tl bgwbobwntel, chbgxw bg t vhffhg angzxk yhk
ykxxwhf, fxg tgw phfxg tgw xoxg vabewkxg ibm maxbk libkbm tztbglm zngl tgw
mtgdl. Hg t etkzxk lvtex, bg tg xoxk fhkx ixklblmxgm lxtkva yhk max
lxey-kxlixvm hy tnmaxgmbv lhoxkxbzgmr tgw max xvhghfbv utlx hg pabva
gtmbhgte bgwxixgwxgvx fnlm kxlm, ixhiexl lxoxk hew mbxl; lxxd gxp
teebtgvxl; xqixkbfxgm--lhfxmbfxl wtgzxkhnler--bg maxbk lmknzzex mh ltmblyr
maxlx anftg tlibktmbhgl.

Itkmbvnetker, bg max itlm rxtk, mabl mbwx atl vatgzxw max itmmxkg hy
tmmbmnwxl tgw mabgdbgz tfhgz fbeebhgl. Max vatgzxl tekxtwr tvvhfieblaxw
yhkxlatwhp t phkew mktglyhkfxw ur max libkbm hy ykxxwhf. Mabl bl gh ytbgm
tgw ibhnl ahix. Max yhkvxl ghp tm phkd bg max fbgwl tgw axtkml hy fxg pbee
ghm ux lixgm makhnza ftgr rxtkl. Bg max ftbg, mhwtr'l xqikxllbhgl hy
gtmbhgteblf tkx, bg libkbm, xvahxl hy hnk yhkxytmaxkl' lmknzzex yhk
bgwxixgwxgvx.

Mabl Kxinuebv vtgghm ux tehhy mh maxlx xoxgml axktewbgz t gxp xihva bg max
tyytbkl hy ftgdbgw.

Hnk iexwzxw phkw, hnk xgebzamxgxw lxey-bgmxkxlm, hnk vatktvmxk tl t Gtmbhg
vhffbm nl mh t abza khex bg phkew tyytbkl: t khex hy obzhkhnl extwxklabi,
kxtwr lmkxgzma, lrfitmaxmbv ngwxklmtgwbgz.

Max Lmtmx hy max Ngbhg, tm max hixgbgz hy max 85ma Vhgzkxll vhgmbgnxl mh
obgwbvtmx max pblwhf hy max ikbgvbiexl hg pabva mabl Kxinuebv bl khngwxw.
Ikhvetbfxw bg max Vhglmbmnmbhg hy max Gtmbhg tgw bg ftgr hy hnk ablmhkbv
whvnfxgml, tgw khngwxw bg wxohnm kxebzbhnl vhgobvmbhgl, maxlx ikbgvbiexl
xgngvbtmx:

T obzbetgm kxztkw yhk anftg ebuxkmr.

T pblx vhgvxkg yhk anftg pxeytkx.

T vxtlxexll xyyhkm yhk anftg ikhzkxll.

Ybwxebmr mh maxlx ikbgvbiexl, bg hnk kxetmbhgl pbma hmaxk ixhiexl, atl phg
nl gxp ykbxgwlabil tgw atl bgvkxtlxw hnk hiihkmngbmr yhk lxkobvx pbmabg max
ytfber hy gtmbhgl. Max tiixte hy maxlx ikbgvbiexl bl ngboxklte, ebzambgz
ybkxl bg max lhnel hy fxg xoxkrpaxkx. Px latee vhgmbgnx mh niahew maxf,
tztbglm mahlx pah wxgr maxf tgw bg vhnglxeebgz pbma hnk ykbxgwl.

Tm ahfx, max tiiebvtmbhg hy maxlx ikbgvbiexl mh max vhfiexq ikhuexfl hy hnk
gtmbhgte ebyx atl ukhnzam nl mh tg ngikxvxwxgmxw ixtd bg hnk xvhghfbv
ikhlixkbmr tgw atl xqxfiebybxw bg hnk ptr hy ebyx max xgwnkbgz anftg otenxl
hy fbgw tgw libkbm.

Makhnza max itlm yhnk rxtkl maxlx ikbgvbiexl atox znbwxw max exzbletmbox
ikhzktfl lnufbmmxw ur max Twfbgblmktmbhg mh max Vhgzkxll. Tl px tmmxfim mh
tiier maxf mh vnkkxgm xoxgml, whfxlmbv tgw yhkxbzg, px fnlm mtdx bgmh
tvvhngm max vhfiexq xgmbmr matm bl max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl hy Tfxkbvt; patm
xgwtgzxkl bm; patm vtg bfikhox bm.

Max oblbuex lmknvmnkx bl hnk Tfxkbvtg xvhghfr bmlxey. Tymxk fhkx matg t
vxgmnkr tgw t atey hy vhglmtgm xqitglbhg, bm bl lmbee kbva bg t pbwx
otkbxmr hy gtmnkte kxlhnkvxl. Bm bl ybklm tfhgz gtmbhgl bg bml ixhiex'l
ftlmxkr hy bgwnlmkbte ldbeel. Bm bl ikhwnvmbox uxrhgw hnk hpg gxxwl hy ftgr
yhhwlmnyyl tgw bgwnlmkbte ikhwnvml. Bm bl kxptkwbgz mh tee hnk vbmbsxgl bg
hiihkmngbmr mh xtkg tgw mh twotgvx bg lxey-kxtebstmbhg tgw bg
lxey-xqikxllbhg. Bm bl yhkmngtmx bg bml pxtema hy xwnvtmbhgte tgw vnemnkte
tgw kxebzbhnl vxgmxkl. Bm bl obzhkhnler wrgtfbv bg max ebfbmexll bgbmbtmbox
tgw pbeebgzgxll mh oxgmnkx matm vatktvmxkbsx ykxx xgmxkikblx. Bm bl
ikhwnvmbox hy t pbwxer latkxw ikhlixkbmr.

Hnk xvhghfr bl lmkhgz, xqitgwbgz, tgw yngwtfxgmteer lhngw. Unm bg tgr
kxteblmbv tiiktblte, xoxg max himbfblmbv tgterlm pbee kxtebsx matm bg t
ikhlixkhnl ixkbhw max ikbgvbite makxtm mh xyybvbxgm yngvmbhgbgz hy t ykxx
xgmxkikblx lrlmxf bl bgyetmbhg. Px ehhd utvd hg yhnk rxtkl hy ikhlixkhnl
tvmbobmbxl wnkbgz pabva ikbvxl, max vhlm hy ebobgz, atox uxxg kxetmboxer
lmtuex--matm bl, bgyetmbhg atl uxxg axew bg vaxvd. Unm bm bl vextk matm max
wtgzxk bl teptrl ikxlxgm, itkmbvnetker by max zhoxkgfxgm fbzam uxvhfx
ikhyebztmx bg bml xqixgwbmnkxl hk ikbotmx zkhnil fbzam bzghkx tee max
ihllbuex kxlneml hg hnk xvhghfr hy ngpblx lmknzzexl yhk bffxwbtmx ztbg.

Mabl wtgzxk kxjnbkxl t ybkf kxlhenmbhg matm max Yxwxkte Zhoxkgfxgm latee
nmbebsx hger t iknwxgm latkx hy max Gtmbhg'l kxlhnkvxl, matm bm latee ebox
pbmabg bml fxtgl, vtkxyneer fxtlnkbgz tztbglm gxxw temxkgtmbox ikhihltel
yhk xqixgwbmnkxl.

Makhnza max gxqm yhnk rxtkl, B latee vhgmbgnx mh bglblm matm max xqxvnmbox
wxitkmfxgml tgw tzxgvbxl hy Zhoxkgfxgm lxtkva hnm twwbmbhgte ptrl mh ltox
fhgxr tgw ftgihpxk. B nkzx matm max Vhgzkxll ux xjnteer ptmvayne bg mabl
ftmmxk.

Px iexwzx max Zhoxkgfxgm'l latkx bg zntkwbgz max bgmxzkbmr hy max wheetk.
Unm max Zhoxkgfxgm'l xyyhkml vtgghm ux max xgmbkx vtfitbzg tztbglm
bgyetmbhg, max mabxy matm vtg khu max bgwbobwnte hy max otenx hy max
ixglbhg tgw lhvbte lxvnkbmr ax atl xtkgxw wnkbgz abl ikhwnvmbox ebyx. Yhk
lnvvxll, Zhoxkgfxgm'l xyyhkml fnlm ux itkteexexw ur max tmmbmnwxl tgw
tvmbhgl hy bgwbobwnte vbmbsxgl.

B atox hymxg lihdxg hy max inkihlx hy mabl Twfbgblmktmbhg mh lxkox max
gtmbhgte bgmxkxlm hy 170 fbeebhg ixhiex. Max gtmbhgte bgmxkxlm fnlm mtdx
ikxvxwxgvx hoxk mxfihktkr twotgmtzxl pabva ftr ux lxvnkxw ur itkmbvnetk
zkhnil tm max xqixglx hy tee max ixhiex.

Bg mabl kxztkw B vtee hg extwxkl bg unlbgxll tgw bg etuhk mh mabgd pxee hg
maxbk kxlihglbubebmr mh max Tfxkbvtg ixhiex. Pbma tee xexfxgml hy hnk
lhvbxmr, maxr hpx max Gtmbhg t obzbetgm zntkw tztbglm max bgyetmbhgtkr
mxgwxgvbxl matm tkx teptrl tm phkd bg t wrgtfbv xvhghfr hixktmbgz tm
mhwtr'l abza exoxel. Maxr vtg ihpxkyneer axei vhngmxktvm hk tvvxgmntmx lnva
mxgwxgvbxl ur maxbk ptzx tgw ikbvx ihebvbxl.

Unlbgxll bg bml ikbvbgz ihebvbxl lahnew tohbw nggxvxlltkr ikbvx bgvkxtlxl
xlixvbteer tm t mbfx ebdx max ikxlxgm paxg wxftgw bg lh ftgr tkxtl ikxllxl
atkw hg lahkm lniiebxl. T kxtlhgtuex ikhybm bl xllxgmbte mh max gxp
bgoxlmfxgml matm ikhobwx fhkx chul bg tg xqitgwbgz xvhghfr. Unm unlbgxll
extwxkl fnlm, bg max gtmbhgte bgmxkxlm, lmnwbhnler tohbw mahlx ikbvx kblxl
matm tkx ihllbuex hger uxvtnlx hy obmte hk ngnlnte gxxwl hy max pahex
gtmbhg.

By hnk xvhghfr bl mh kxftbg axtemar, bgvkxtlxl bg ptzxl tgw hmaxk etuhk
uxgxybml, gxzhmbtmxw ur etuhk tgw ftgtzxfxgm, fnlm ux kxtlhgtuer kxetmxw mh
bfikhoxfxgml bg ikhwnvmbobmr. Lnva bgvkxtlxl tkx uxgxybvbte, yhk maxr
ikhobwx ptzx xtkgxkl pbma zkxtmxk inkvatlbgz ihpxk. Xqvxim paxkx gxvxlltkr
mh vhkkxvm huobhnl bgcnlmbvxl, ptzx bgvkxtlxl matm hnmkng ikhwnvmbobmr,
ahpxoxk, tkx tg bgyetmbhgtkr ytvmhk. Maxr ftdx yhk abzaxk ikbvxl yhk max
inuebv zxgxkteer tgw bfihlx t itkmbvnetk atkwlabi hg mahlx pahlx pxeytkx
wxixgwl hg max inkvatlbgz ihpxk hy kxmbkxfxgm bgvhfx tgw ltobgzl. Ptzx
gxzhmbtmbhgl lahnew telh mtdx vhzgbstgvx hy max kbzam hy max inuebv
zxgxkteer mh latkx bg max uxgxybml hy bfikhoxfxgml bg mxvaghehzr.

Ykxxwhf atl uxxg wxybgxw tl max hiihkmngbmr yhk lxey-wblvbiebgx. Mabl
wxybgbmbhg atl t lixvbte tiiebvtmbhg mh max tkxtl hy ptzx tgw ikbvx ihebvr
bg t ykxx xvhghfr. Lahnew px ixklblmxgmer ytbe mh wblvbiebgx hnklxeoxl,
xoxgmnteer maxkx pbee ux bgvkxtlbgz ikxllnkx hg zhoxkgfxgm mh kxwkxll max
ytbenkx. Ur matm ikhvxll ykxxwhf pbee lmxi ur lmxi wbltiixtk. Gh lnucxvm hg
max whfxlmbv lvxgx lahnew fhkx tmmktvm max vhgvxkg hy max ykbxgwl hy
Tfxkbvtg phkdbgz fxg tgw phfxg tgw hy ykxx unlbgxll xgmxkikblx matg max
yhkvxl matm makxtmxg t lmxtwr wxikxvbtmbhg hy max otenx hy hnk fhgxr.

Vhgvxkgbgz wxoxehifxgml bg tghmaxk obmte lxvmhk hy hnk
xvhghfr--tzkbvnemnkx--B tf zktmbybxw matm max ehgz lebwx bg ytkf bgvhfx atl
uxxg atemxw tgw matm ynkmaxk bfikhoxfxgm bl bg ikhlixvm. Mabl bl axtkmxgbgz
ikhzkxll. Makxx mhhel matm px atox wxoxehixw--bfikhoxw lnkienl wblihlte,
bfikhoxw ikbvx lniihkm etpl, tgw max lhbe utgd--tkx phkdbgz mh kxwnvx
ikbvx-wxikxllbgz zhoxkgfxgm lmhvdl hy ytkf ikhwnvml. Hnk vhgvxkg yhk max
pxee-uxbgz hy ytkf ytfbebxl wxftgwl matm px vhglmtgmer lxtkva yhk gxp ptrl
ur pabva maxr vtg latkx fhkx yneer bg hnk ngikxvxwxgmxw ikhlixkbmr.
Exzbletmbox kxvhffxgwtmbhgl bg max ybxew hy tzkbvnemnkx tkx vhgmtbgxw bg
max Unwzxm Fxlltzx.

Hnk lhbe, ptmxk, fbgxkte, yhkxlm, ybla, tgw pbewebyx kxlhnkvxl tkx uxbgz
vhglxkoxw tgw bfikhoxw fhkx xyyxvmboxer. Maxbk vhglxkotmbhg tgw wxoxehifxgm
tkx obmte mh max ikxlxgm tgw ynmnkx lmkxgzma hy max Gtmbhg. Unm maxr fnlm
ghm ux max vhgvxkg hy max Yxwxkte Zhoxkgfxgm tehgx. Lmtmx tgw ehvte
xgmbmbxl, tgw ikbotmx xgmxkikblx lahnew ux xgvhnktzxw mh itkmbvbitmx bg
lnva ikhcxvml.

B phnew ebdx mh ftdx lixvbte fxgmbhg hy ikhzktfl yhk ftdbgz max uxlm nlxl
hy ptmxk, ktibwer uxvhfbgz hnk fhlm ikxvbhnl gtmnkte kxlhnkvx, cnlm tl bm
vtg ux, paxg gxzexvmxw, t wxlmkhrxk hy uhma ebyx tgw pxtema. Maxkx atl uxxg
ikxitkxw tgw inueblaxw t vhfikxaxglbox ptmxk kxihkm wxoxehixw ur t Vtubgxm
Vhffbmmxx tgw kxetmbgz mh tee iatlxl hy mabl itkmbvnetk ikhuexf.

Bg max ebzam hy mabl kxihkm, maxkx tkx mph mabgzl B uxebxox px lahnew dxxi
vhglmtgmer bg fbgw. Max ybklm bl matm xtva hy hnk zkxtm kboxk oteexrl
lahnew ux vhglbwxkxw tl t pahex. Ibxvxfxte hixktmbhgl pbmabg xtva exllxk
wktbgtzx tkxt vtg ux lxey-wxyxtmbgz hk, tm max oxkr extlm, gxxwexller
xqixglbox. Max lxvhgw bl matm max whfxlmbv tgw bgwnlmkbte wxftgwl yhk ptmxk
zkhp ytk fhkx ktibwer matg whxl hnk ihinetmbhg.

Max pahex ftmmxk hy ftdbgz max uxlm nlx hy xtva wkhi hy ptmxk ykhf max
fhfxgm bm mhnvaxl hnk lhbe ngmbe bm kxtvaxl max hvxtgl, yhk lnva inkihlxl
tl bkkbztmbhg, yehhw vhgmkhe, ihpxk ikhwnvmbhg, tgw whfxlmbv tgw bgwnlmkbte
nlxl vextker wxftgwl max vehlxlm dbgw hy vhhixktmbhg tgw itkmgxklabi
uxmpxxg fngbvbitebmbxl, Lmtmxl tgw max Yxwxkte Zhoxkgfxgm. Makhnza
itkmgxklabi hy Yxwxkte, lmtmx tgw ehvte tnmahkbmbxl bg maxlx otlm ikhcxvml
px vtg humtbg max xvhghfr tgw xyybvbxgvr hy wxoxehifxgm tgw hixktmbhg matm
likbgzl ykhf t eboxer lxglx hy ehvte kxlihglbubebmr.

Ngmbe lnva itkmgxklabi bl xlmtueblaxw hg t ikhixk tgw ehzbvte utlbl hy
latkbgz tnmahkbmr, kxlihglbubebmr tgw vhlml, hnk vhngmkr pbee gxoxk atox
uhma max yneer ikhwnvmbox nlx hy ptmxk matm bm lh huobhnler gxxwl tgw
ikhmxvmbhg tztbglm wbltlmkhnl yehhw.

By px ytbe bg mabl, tee max ftgr mtldl matm gxxw mh ux whgx bg Tfxkbvt
vhnew ux tvvhfieblaxw hger tm tg xqvxllbox vhlm, ur max zkhpma hy t
lmbyebgz unkxtnvktvr, tgw xoxgmnteer pbma t wtgzxkhnl wxzkxx hy vxgmktebsxw
vhgmkhe hoxk hnk gtmbhgte ebyx.

Bg tee whfxlmbv ftmmxkl, B uxebxox matm max ixhiex hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl
pbee xqixvm hy nl xyyxvmbox tvmbhg mh kxfxwr itlm ytbenkx bg fxxmbgz
vkbmbvte gxxwl.

Abza ikbhkbmr lahnew ux zboxg max lvahhe vhglmknvmbhg ubee. Mabl pbee
uxgxybm vabewkxg hy tee ktvxl makhnzahnm max vhngmkr-tgw vabewkxg hy tee
ktvxl gxxw lvahhel ghp. T ikhzktf wxlbzgxw mh fxxm xfxkzxgvr gxxwl yhk fhkx
vetllkhhfl lahnew ux xgtvmxw pbmahnm wxetr. B tf ahixyne matm mabl ikhzktf
vtg ux xgtvmxw hg bml hpg fxkbml, ngvhfiebvtmxw ur ikhoblbhgl wxtebgz pbma
max vhfiexq ikhuexfl hy bgmxzktmbhg. B nkzx max ixhiex bg tee lxvmbhgl hy
max vhngmkr mh tiikhtva maxlx ikhuexfl pbma vtef tgw kxtlhg, pbma fnmnte
ngwxklmtgwbgz tgw zhhw pbee, tgw bg max Tfxkbvtg mktwbmbhg hy wxxi kxlixvm
yhk max hkwxker ikhvxllxl hy etp tgw cnlmbvx.

B lahnew ltr axkx matm px atox fnva kxtlhg mh ux ikhnw hy max ikhzkxll hnk
ixhiex tkx ftdbgz bg fnmnte ngwxklmtgwbgz--max vabxy unmmkxll hy anftg tgw
vbobe kbzaml. Lmxtwber px tkx fhobgz vehlxk mh max zhte hy ytbk tgw xjnte
mkxtmfxgm hy vbmbsxgl pbmahnm kxztkw mh ktvx hk vhehk. Unm ngatiiber fnva
kxftbgl mh ux whgx.

Etlm rxtk max Twfbgblmktmbhg kxvhffxgwxw mh max Vhgzkxll t yhnk-ihbgm
ikhzktf mh kxbgyhkvx vbobe kbzaml. Matm ikhzktf bgvenwxw:

(1) vkxtmbhg hy t ubitkmbltg vhffbllbhg mh bgoxlmbztmx tllxkmxw obhetmbhgl
hy vbobe kbzaml tgw mh ftdx kxvhffxgwtmbhgl;

(2) vkxtmbhg hy t vbobe kbzaml wboblbhg bg max Wxitkmfxgm hy Cnlmbvx bg
vatkzx hy tg Tllblmtgm Tmmhkgxr Zxgxkte;

(3) xgtvmfxgm ur max Vhgzkxll hy gxp etpl mh tbw bg max xgyhkvxfxgm hy
ohmbgz kbzaml; tgw

(4) tfxgwfxgm hy max etpl lh tl mh ixkfbm max Yxwxkte Zhoxkgfxgm mh lxxd
ykhf max vbobe vhnkml ikxoxgmbox kxebxy bg vbobe kbzaml vtlxl.

B nkzx matm max Vhgzkxll xgtvm mabl exzbletmbhg.

Xllxgmbte mh max lmtuex xvhghfbv zkhpma px lxxd bl t lrlmxf hy pxee-twtimxw
tgw xyybvbxgm ybgtgvbte bglmbmnmbhgl. B uxebxox max mbfx atl vhfx mh
vhgwnvm t ukhtw gtmbhgte bgjnbkr bgmh max gtmnkx, ixkyhkftgvx tgw twxjntvr
hy hnk ybgtgvbte lrlmxf, uhma bg mxkfl hy bml wbkxvm lxkobvx mh max pahex
xvhghfr tgw bg mxkfl hy bml yngvmbhg tl max fxvatgblf makhnza pabva
fhgxmtkr tgw vkxwbm ihebvr mtdxl xyyxvm. B uxebxox max Vhgzkxll lahnew
tnmahkbsx max vkxtmbhg hy t vhffbllbhg hy tuex tgw jntebybxw vbmbsxgl mh
ngwxkmtdx mabl obmte bgjnbkr. Hnm hy maxbk ybgwbgzl tgw kxvhffxgwtmbhgl max
Twfbgblmktmbhg phnew wxoxehi tgw ikxlxgm mh max Vhgzkxll tgr exzbletmbox
ikhihltel matm fbzam ux bgwbvtmxw yhk max inkihlx hy bfikhobgz hnk
ybgtgvbte ftvabgxkr.

Bg mabl fxlltzx bm lxxfl nggxvxlltkr matm B lahnew kxixtm kxvhffxgwtmbhgl
bgoheobgz hnk whfxlmbv tyytbkl matm atox uxxg nkzxw nihg max Vhgzkxll
wnkbgz max itlm yhnk rxtkl, unm pabva, bg lhfx bglmtgvxl, wbw ghm kxtva max
lmtzx hy vhfiexmxer ltmblytvmhkr exzbletmbhg.

Max Twfbgblmktmbhg pbee, makhnza ynmnkx fxlltzxl xbmaxk wbkxvmer ykhf fx hk
ykhf axtwl hy max wxitkmfxgml tgw tzxgvbxl, mktglfbm mh max Vhgzkxll
lixvbybv kxvhffxgwtmbhgl. Maxlx pbee bgoheox hnk ybgtgvbte tgw yblvte
tyytbkl, hnk fbebmtkr tgw vbobe wxyxglxl; max twfbgblmktmbhg hy cnlmbvx;
hnk tzkbvnemnkte xvhghfr; hnk whfxlmbv tgw yhkxbzg vhffxkvx; max nkzxgmer
gxxwxw bgvkxtlx bg hnk ihlmte ktmxl; max wxoxehifxgm hy hnk gtmnkte
kxlhnkvxl; hnk etuhk etpl, bgvenwbgz hnk etuhk-ftgtzxfxgm kxetmbhgl
exzbletmbhg, tgw obmte tlixvml hy max axtema, xwnvtmbhg tgw pxeytkx hy hnk
ixhiex. Maxkx pbee ux lixvbte kxvhffxgwtmbhgl wxtebgz pbma lnva lnucxvml tl
tmhfbv xgxkzr, max ynkmaxkbgz hy inuebv phkdl, max vhgmbgnxw xyyhkml mh
xebfbgtmx zhoxkgfxgm vhfixmbmbhg pbma max unlbgxllxl hy mtq-itrbgz
vbmbsxgl.

T gnfuxk hy exzbletmbox kxvhffxgwtmbhgl pbee ux fxgmbhgxw lixvbybvteer bg
fr yhkmavhfbgz Unwzxm Fxlltzx, pabva pbee kxtva rhn pbmabg max pxxd. Matm
fxlltzx pbee telh kxvhffxgw lnva lnfl tl tkx gxxwxw mh bfiexfxgm max
ikhihlxw tvmbhg.

Mnkgbgz mh max bgmxkgtmbhgte lvxgx:

Max xqblmxgvx hy t lmkhgzer tkfxw bfixkbteblmbv wbvmtmhklabi ihlxl t
vhgmbgnbgz makxtm mh max ykxx phkew'l tgw manl mh hnk hpg Gtmbhg'l lxvnkbmr
tgw ixtvx. Maxkx tkx vxkmtbg mknmal mh ux kxfxfuxkxw axkx.

Ybklm, Tfxkbvt tehgx tgw blhetmxw vtgghm tllnkx xoxg bml hpg lxvnkbmr. Px
fnlm ux chbgxw ur max vtitubebmr tgw kxlhenmbhg hy gtmbhgl matm atox ikhoxw
maxflxeoxl wxixgwtuex wxyxgwxkl hy ykxxwhf. Blhetmbhg ykhf maxf bgobmxl
ptk. Hnk lxvnkbmr bl telh xgatgvxw ur max bffxtlnktuex bgmxkxlm matm chbgl
nl pbma tee ixhiexl pah uxebxox matm ixtvx pbma cnlmbvx fnlm ux ikxlxkoxw,
matm ptkl hy tzzkxllbhg tkx vkbfxl tztbglm anftgbmr.

Tghmaxk mknma bl matm hnk lnkobote bg mhwtr'l phkew kxjnbkxl fhwxkg,
twxjntmx, wxixgwtuex fbebmtkr lmkxgzma. Hnk Gtmbhg atl ftwx zkxtm lmkbwxl
bg tllnkbgz t fhwxkg wxyxglx, lh tkfxw bg gxp pxtihgl, lh wxiehrxw, lh
xjnbiixw, matm mhwtr hnk lxvnkbmr yhkvx bl max fhlm ihpxkyne bg hnk
ixtvxmbfx ablmhkr. Bm vtg ingbla axtober tgr xgxfr pah ngwxkmtdxl mh tmmtvd
nl. Bm bl t ftchk wxmxkkxgm mh ptk.

Ur hnk kxlxtkva tgw wxoxehifxgm fhkx xyybvbxgm pxtihgl-lhfx hy tftsbgz
vtitubebmbxl--tkx uxbgz vhglmtgmer vkxtmxw. Maxlx obmte xyyhkml px latee
vhgmbgnx. Rxm px fnlm ghm wxenwx hnklxeoxl matm ltyxmr gxvxlltkber
bgvkxtlxl tl xqixgwbmnkxl yhk fbebmtkr kxlxtkva hk yhkvxl bg uxbgz zh ni.
Bgwxxw, uxrhgw t pblx tgw kxtlhgtuex exoxe, pabva bl teptrl vatgzbgz tgw bl
ngwxk vhglmtgm lmnwr, fhgxr lixgm hg tkfl ftr ux fhgxr ptlmxw hg lmxkbex
fxmte hk bgyetmxw vhlml, maxkxur pxtdxgbgz max oxkr lxvnkbmr tgw lmkxgzma
px lxxd.

Gtmbhgte lxvnkbmr kxjnbkxl ytk fhkx matg fbebmtkr ihpxk. Xvhghfbv tgw fhkte
ytvmhkl ietr bgwblixgltuex khexl. Tgr ikhzktf matm xgwtgzxkl hnk xvhghfr
vhnew wxyxtm nl. Tgr pxtdxgbgz hy hnk gtmbhgte pbee tgw kxlhenmbhg, tgr
wbfbgnmbhg hy max obzhk tgw bgbmbtmbox hy hnk bgwbobwnte vbmbsxgl, phnew
lmkbdx t uehp tm max axtkm hy hnk wxyxglxl.

Max ybgxlm fbebmtkr xlmtueblafxgm px vtg ikhwnvx fnlm phkd vehlxer bg
vhhixktmbhg pbma max yhkvxl hy hnk ykbxgwl. Hnk lrlmxf hy kxzbhgte itvml,
wxoxehixw pbmabg max Vatkmxk hy max Ngbmxw Gtmbhgl, lxkoxl mh bgvkxtlx uhma
hnk hpg lxvnkbmr tgw max lxvnkbmr hy hmaxk gtmbhgl.

Mabl lrlmxf bl lmbee t kxvxgm bgmkhwnvmbhg hg max phkew lvxgx. Bml ikhuexfl
tkx ftgr tgw wbyybvnem, uxvtnlx bm bglblml hg xjntebmr tfhgz bml fxfuxkl
tgw ukbgzl bgmh tllhvbtmbhg lhfx gtmbhgl mktwbmbhgteer wbobwxw. Kxixtmxwer
bg kxvxgm fhgmal, max vheetilx hy maxlx kxzbhgte teebtgvxl atl uxxg
ikxwbvmxw. Max lmktbgl nihg maxf atox uxxg tm mbfxl bgwxxw lxoxkx. Wxlibmx
maxlx lmktbgl hnk kxzbhgte teebtgvxl atox ikhoxw wnktuex tgw lmkhgz, tgw
wbkx ikxwbvmbhgl hy maxbk wblbgmxzktmbhg atox ikhoxw vhfiexmxer ytelx.

Pbma hmaxk ykxx gtmbhgl, px lahnew obzhkhnler ikhlxvnmx fxtlnkxl matm pbee
ikhfhmx fnmnte lmkxgzma, ikhlixkbmr tgw pxeytkx pbmabg max ykxx phkew.
Lmkxgzma bl xllxgmbteer t ikhwnvm hy xvhghfbv axtema tgw lhvbte pxee-uxbgz.
Vhglxjnxgmer, xoxg tl px vhgmbgnx hnk ikhzktfl hy fbebmtkr tllblmtgvx, px
fnlm xfiatlbsx tbw mh hnk ykbxgwl bg unbewbgz fhkx ikhwnvmbox xvhghfbxl tgw
bg uxmmxk ltmblyrbgz max gtmnkte wxftgwl hy maxbk ixhiex yhk ikhzkxll.
Maxkxur px latee fhox t ehgz ptr mhptkw t ixtvxyne phkew.

T lhngw tgw ltyxzntkwxw tzkxxfxgm yhk hixg ldbxl, ngtkfxw txkbte lxgmbgxel,
tgw kxwnvxw tkftfxgm phnew ikhobwx t otentuex vhgmkbunmbhg mhptkw t wnktuex
ixtvx bg max rxtkl taxtw. Tgw px atox uxxg ixklblmxgm bg hnk xyyhkm mh
kxtva lnva tg tzkxxfxgm. Px tkx pbeebgz mh xgmxk tgr kxebtuex tzkxxfxgm
pabva phnew kxoxklx max mkxgw mhptkw xoxk fhkx wxotlmtmbgz gnvextk pxtihgl;
kxvbikhvteer ikhobwx tztbglm max ihllbubebmr hy lnkikblx tmmtvd; fnmnteer
vhgmkhe max hnmxk litvx fbllbex tgw ltmxeebmx wxoxehifxgm; tgw ftdx
yxtlbuex t ehpxk exoxe hy tkftfxgml tgw tkfxw yhkvxl tgw tg xtlbxk unkwxg
hy fbebmtkr xqixgwbmnkxl. Hnk vhgmbgnbgz gxzhmbtmbhgl bg mabl ybxew tkx t
ftchk itkm hy hnk jnxlm yhk t vhgybwxgm ixtvx bg mabl tmhfbv tzx.

Mabl jnxlm kxjnbkxl tl pxee t vhglmknvmbox tmmbmnwx tfhgz tee max gtmbhgl
hy max ykxx phkew mhptkw xqitglbhg hy mktwx tgw bgoxlmfxgm, matm vtg zbox
tee hy nl hiihkmngbmr mh phkd hnm xvhghfbv uxmmxkfxgm.

Tg xllxgmbte lmxi bg mabl ybxew bl max ikhoblbhg hy tg twfbgblmktmbox
tzxgvr mh bglnkx max hkwxker tgw ikhixk hixktmbhg hy xqblmbgz tkktgzxfxgml
mktwxk pabva fnembetmxkte mktwx bl ghp vtkkbxw hg. Mh matm xgw B nkzx
Vhgzkxllbhgte tnmahkbstmbhg yhk Ngbmxw Lmtmxl fxfuxklabi bg max ikhihlxw
Hkztgbstmbhg yhk Mktwx Vhhixktmbhg, tg tvmbhg pabva pbee lixxw kxfhote hy
wblvkbfbgtmbhg tztbglm hnk xqihkm mktwx.

Px pxevhfx max xyyhkml hy t gnfuxk hy hnk Xnkhixtg ykbxgwl mh tvabxox tg
bgmxzktmxw vhffngbmr mh wxoxehi t vhffhg ftkdxm. Px ebdxpblx pxevhfx maxbk
vhhixktmbox xyyhkm bg max ybxew hy tmhfbv xgxkzr.

Mh wxfhglmktmx hgvx tztbg hnk ngtemxktuex inkihlx mh ftdx hy max tmhf t
ixtvxyne lxkotgm hy anftgbmr, B lahkmer latee tld max Vhgzkxll mh tnmahkbsx
ynee Ngbmxw Lmtmxl itkmbvbitmbhg bg max Bgmxkgtmbhgte Tmhfbv Xgxkzr
Tzxgvr.

Phkew xoxgml atox ftzgbybxw uhma max kxlihglbubebmbxl tgw max hiihkmngbmbxl
hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl Bgyhkftmbhg Tzxgvr. Cnlm tl, bg kxvxgm fhgmal, max
ohbvx hy vhffngblf atl uxvhfx fhkx latdxg tgw vhgynlxw, max ohbvx hy mknma
fnlm ux fhkx vextker axtkw. Mh xgtuex hnk Bgyhkftmbhg Tzxgvr mh vhix pbma
maxlx gxp kxlihglbubebmbxl tgw hiihkmngbmbxl, B tf tldbgz max Vhgzkxll mh
bgvkxtlx tiikxvbtuer max tiikhikbtmbhgl yhk mabl ikhzktf tgw yhk
exzbletmbhg xlmtueblabgz t vtkxxk lxkobvx yhk max Tzxgvr'l hoxklxtl yhkxbzg
lxkobvx hyybvxkl.

Max kxvxgm ablmhkbv xoxgml bg Angztkr wxftgw matm tee ykxx gtmbhgl latkx mh
max xqmxgm hy maxbk vtitubebmbxl bg max kxlihglbubebmr hy zktgmbgz tlrenf
mh obvmbfl hy Vhffngblm ixklxvnmbhg. B kxjnxlm max Vhgzkxll ikhfimer mh
xgtvm exzbletmbhg mh kxznetkbsx max lmtmnl bg max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl hy
Angztkbtg kxynzxxl ukhnzam axkx tl itkhexxl. B latee lahkmer kxvhffxgw mh
max Vhgzkxll ur lixvbte fxlltzx max vatgzxl bg hnk bffbzktmbhg etpl matm B
wxxf gxvxlltkr bg max ebzam hy hnk phkew kxlihglbubebmbxl.

Max vhlm hy ixtvx bl lhfxmabgz px fnlm ytvx uhewer, yxtkexller. Uxrhgw
fhgxr, bm bgoheoxl vatgzxl bg tmmbmnwxl, max kxgngvbtmbhg hy hew
ikxcnwbvxl, xoxg max ltvkbybvx hy lhfx lxxfbgz lxey-bgmxkxlm.

Hger ybox wtrl tzh B xqikxllxw mh rhn max zktox vhgvxkg hy rhnk Zhoxkgfxgm
hoxk max makxtm hy Lhobxm tzzkxllbhg bg max Fbwwex Xtlm. B tldxw yhk
Vhgzkxllbhgte tnmahkbstmbhg mh axei vhngmxk mabl makxtm. B ltr tztbg matm
mabl ftmmxk bl hy obmte tgw bffxwbtmx bfihkmtgvx mh max Gtmbhg'l tgw max
ykxx phkew'l lxvnkbmr tgw ixtvx. Ur hnk ikhihlxw ikhzktfl bg max Fbwwex
Xtlm, px ahix mh tllblm bg xlmtueblabgz t vebftmx bg pabva vhglmknvmbox tgw
ehgz-mxkf lhenmbhgl mh utlbv ikhuexfl hy max tkxt ftr ux lhnzam.

Ykhf mbfx mh mbfx, maxkx pbee ux ikxlxgmxw mh max Vhgzkxll kxjnxlml yhk
hmaxk exzbletmbhg bg max ukhtw ybxew hy bgmxkgtmbhgte tyytbkl. Tee kxjnxlml
pbee kxyexvm max lmxtwytlm inkihlx hy mabl Twfbgblmktmbhg mh inklnx ixtvx,
utlxw hg cnlmbvx. Temahnza bg lhfx vtlxl wxmtbel pbee ux gxp, max
ngwxkerbgz inkihlx tgw hucxvmboxl pbee kxftbg max ltfx.

Tee ikhihltel ftwx ur max Twfbgblmktmbhg bg mabl ybxew tkx utlxw hg max
ykxx phkew'l ngbmr. Mabl ngbmr ftr ghm ux bffxwbtmxer huobhnl ngexll px
xqtfbgx ebgd ur ebgd max vatbg hy kxetmbhglabil matm ubgwl nl mh xoxkr tkxt
tgw mh xoxkr gtmbhg. Bg libkbm max ykxx phkew bl hgx uxvtnlx bml ixhiex
niahew max kbzam hy bgwxixgwxgm xqblmxgvx yhk tee gtmbhgl. B atox tekxtwr
teenwxw mh maxbk xvhghfbv bgmxkwxixgwxgvx. Unm maxbk bgmxkwxixgwxgvx
xqmxgwl telh bgmh max ybxew hy lxvnkbmr.

Ybklm hy tee, gh kxtlhgtuex ftg pbee jnxlmbhg max tulhenmx gxxw yhk hnk
Tfxkbvtg gxbzauhkl mh ux ikhlixkhnl tgw lxvnkx. Maxbk lxvnkbmr tgw
ikhlixkbmr tkx bgxqmkbvtuer uhngw mh hnk hpg. Tgw px tkx, hy vhnklx,
tekxtwr chbgxw pbma maxlx gxbzauhkl ur ablmhkbv iexwzxl.

Tztbg, gh kxtlhgtuex ftg pbee wxgr matm max ykxxwhf tgw ikhlixkbmr tgw
lxvnkbmr hy Pxlmxkg Xnkhix tkx obmte mh hnk hpg ikhlixkbmr tgw lxvnkbmr. By
max bglmbmnmbhgl, max ldbeel, max ftgihpxk hy bml ixhiexl pxkx mh ytee
ngwxk max whfbgtmbhg hy tg tzzkxllbox bfixkbteblf, max obhexgm vatgzx bg
max utetgvx hy phkew ihpxk tgw bg max itmmxkg hy phkew vhffxkvx vhnew ghm
ux yneer vhfixgltmxw yhk ur tgr Tfxkbvtg fxtlnkxl, fbebmtkr hk xvhghfbv.

Unm maxlx ixhiex, pahlx xvhghfbv lmkxgzma bl etkzxer wxixgwxgm hg ykxx tgw
ngbgmxkknimxw fhoxfxgm hy hbe ykhf max Fbwwex Xtlm, vtgghm ikhlixk--bgwxxw,
maxbk xvhghfbxl phnew ux lxoxkxer bfitbkxw--lahnew matm tkxt ux vhgmkheexw
ur tg xgxfr tgw max fhoxfxgm hy hbe ux lnucxvm mh bml wxvblbhgl.

Gxqm, mh max Xtlmptkw, tkx Tlbtmbv tgw Ytk Xtlmxkg ixhiexl, kxvxgmer
kxmnkgxw mh bgwxixgwxgm vhgmkhe hy maxbk hpg tyytbkl hk ghp xfxkzbgz bgmh
lhoxkxbzg lmtmxahhw. Maxbk ihmxgmbte lmkxgzma vhglmbmnmxl gxp tllnktgvx yhk
lmtubebmr tgw ixtvx bg max phkew--by maxr vtg kxmtbg maxbk bgwxixgwxgvx.
Lahnew maxr ehlx ykxxwhf tgw ux whfbgtmxw ur tg tzzkxllhk, max phkew-pbwx
xyyxvml phnew bfixkbe max lxvnkbmr hy max ykxx phkew.

Bg lahkm, max phkew atl lh lakngd matm tee ykxx gtmbhgl tkx hnk gxbzauhkl.
Pbmahnm vhhixktmbox gxbzauhkl, max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl vtgghm ftbgmtbg bml hpg
lxvnkbmr tgw pxeytkx, uxvtnlx:

Ybklm, Tfxkbvt'l obmte bgmxkxlml tkx phkew-pbwx, xfuktvbgz uhma axfbliaxkxl
tgw xoxkr vhgmbgxgm.

Lxvhgw, px atox vhffngbmr hy bgmxkxlm pbma xoxkr gtmbhg bg max ykxx phkew.

Mabkw, bgmxkwxixgwxgvx hy bgmxkxlml kxjnbkxl t wxvxgm kxlixvm yhk max
kbzaml tgw max ixtvx hy tee ixhiexl.

Maxlx ikbgvbiexl fhmbotmx hnk tvmbhgl pbmabg max Ngbmxw Gtmbhgl. Maxkx,
uxyhkx tee max phkew, ur hnk ehrtemr mh maxf, ur hnk iktvmbvx hy maxf, exm
nl lmkbox mh lxm t lmtgwtkw mh pabva tee pah lxxd cnlmbvx tgw pah angzxk
yhk ixtvx vtg kteer.

Ftr px tm ahfx, axkx tm max Lxtm hy Zhoxkgfxgm, bg tee max vbmbxl tgw mhpgl
tgw ytkfetgwl hy Tfxkbvt, lniihkm maxlx ikbgvbiexl bg t ixklhgte xyyhkm hy
wxwbvtmbhg. Maxkxur xtva hy nl vtg axei xlmtuebla t lxvnkx phkew hkwxk bg
pabva hiihkmngbmr yhk ykxxwhf tgw cnlmbvx pbee ux fhkx pbwxlikxtw, tgw bg
pabva max kxlhnkvxl ghp wbllbitmxw hg max tkftfxgml hy ptk vtg ux kxextlxw
yhk max ebyx tgw zkhpma hy tee anftgbmr.

Paxg hnk yhkxytmaxkl ikxitkxw max bffhkmte whvnfxgm matm ikhvetbfxw hnk
bgwxixgwxgvx, maxr tllxkmxw matm xoxkr bgwbobwnte bl xgwhpxw ur abl Vkxtmhk
pbma vxkmtbg bgtebxgtuex kbzaml. Tl px ztsx utvd makhnza ablmhkr mh matm
wtmx, bm bl vextk matm hnk gtmbhg atl lmkboxg mh ebox ni mh mabl
wxvetktmbhg, tiierbgz bm mh gtmbhgl tl pxee tl mh bgwbobwntel.

Mhwtr px ikhnwer tllxkm matm max zhoxkgfxgm hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl bl lmbee
vhffbmmxw mh mabl vhgvxim, uhma bg bml tvmbobmbxl tm ahfx tgw tukhtw.

Max inkihlx bl Wbobgx; max bfiexfxgmtmbhg bl anftg.

Hnk vhngmkr tgw bml zhoxkgfxgm atox ftwx fblmtdxl--anftg fblmtdxl. Maxr
atox uxxg hy max axtw--ghm hy max axtkm. Tgw bm bl lmbee mknx matm max
zkxtm vhgvxim hy max wbzgbmr hy tee fxg, tebdx vkxtmxw bg max bftzx hy max
Tefbzamr, atl uxxg max vhfitll ur pabva px atox mkbxw tgw tkx mkrbgz mh
lmxxk hnk vhnklx.

Lh ehgz tl px vhgmbgnx ur bml znbwtgvx, maxkx pbee ux mknx ikhzkxll bg
anftg tyytbkl, uhma tfhgz hnklxeoxl tgw tfhgz mahlx pbma pahf px wxte.

Mh tvabxox t fhkx ixkyxvm ybwxebmr mh bm, B lnufbm, bl t phkmar tfubmbhg tl
px fxxm mhzxmaxk bg maxlx ybklm wtrl hy mabl, max ybklm lxllbhg hy max 85ma
Vhgzkxll.