Vq vjg Eqpitguu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu:

Qpeg cickp kv ku oa Eqpuvkvwvkqpcn fwva vq cuuguu vjg uvcvg qh vjg Wpkqp.

Qp gcej uwej rtgxkqwu qeecukqp fwtkpi vjgug rcuv gkijv agctu K jcxg
qwvnkpgf c hqtyctf eqwtug fgukipgf vq cejkgxg qwt owvwcn qdlgevkxg--c
dgvvgt Cogtkec kp c yqtnf qh rgceg. Vjku vkog oa hwpevkqp ku fkhhgtgpv.

Vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng, kp htgg gngevkqp, jcxg ugngevgf pgy ngcfgtujkr yjkej
uqqp yknn dg gpvtwuvgf ykvj vjg ocpcigogpv qh qwt iqxgtpogpv. C pgy
Rtgukfgpv ujqtvna yknn nca dghqtg aqw jku rtqrqucnu vq ujcrg vjg hwvwtg qh
qwt itgcv ncpf. Vq jko, gxgta ekvkbgp, yjcvgxgt jku rqnkvkecn dgnkghu,
rtcagthwnna gzvgpfu dguv ykujgu hqt iqqf jgcnvj cpf hqt ykufqo cpf uweeguu
kp eqrkpi ykvj vjg rtqdngou vjcv eqphtqpv qwt Pcvkqp.

Hqt oa rctv, K ujqwnf nkmg, hktuv, vq gzrtguu vq aqw qh vjg Eqpitguu, oa
crrtgekcvkqp qh aqwt fgxqvkqp vq vjg eqooqp iqqf cpf aqwt htkgpfujkr qxgt
vjgug fkhhkewnv agctu. K yknn ectta ykvj og rngcucpv ogoqtkgu qh vjku
cuuqekcvkqp kp gpfgcxqtu rtqhqwpfna ukipkhkecpv vq cnn qwt rgqrng.

Yg jcxg dggp vjtqwij c ngpivja rgtkqf kp yjkej vjg eqpvtqn qxgt vjg
gzgewvkxg cpf ngikuncvkxg dtcpejgu qh iqxgtpogpv jcu dggp fkxkfgf dgvyggp
qwt vyq itgcv rqnkvkecn rctvkgu. Fkhhgtgpegu, qh eqwtug, yg jcxg jcf,
rctvkewnctna kp fqoguvke chhcktu. Dwv kp c wpkvgf fgvgtokpcvkqp vq mggr
vjku Pcvkqp uvtqpi cpf htgg cpf vq wvknkbg qwt xcuv tguqwtegu hqt vjg
cfxcpegogpv qh cnn ocpmkpf, yg jcxg ecttkgf Cogtkec vq wprtgegfgpvgf
jgkijvu.

Hqt vjku eqqrgtcvkxg cejkgxgogpv K vjcpm vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng cpf vjqug kp
vjg Eqpitguu qh dqvj rctvkgu yjq jcxg uwrrqtvgf rtqitcou kp vjg kpvgtguv qh
qwt eqwpvta.

K ujqwnf cnuq nkmg vq ikxg urgekcn vjcpmu hqt vjg fgxqvgf ugtxkeg qh oa
cuuqekcvgu kp vjg Gzgewvkxg Dtcpej cpf vjg jwpftgfu qh vjqwucpfu qh ectggt
gornqaggu yjq jcxg korngogpvgf qwt fkxgtug iqxgtpogpv rtqitcou.

Oa ugeqpf rwtrqug ku vq tgxkgy dtkghna vjg tgeqtf qh vjgug rcuv gkijv agctu
kp vjg jqrg vjcv, qwv qh vjg uwo qh vjgug gzrgtkgpegu, nguuqpu yknn gogtig
vjcv ctg wughwn vq qwt Pcvkqp. Uwrrqtvkpi vjku tgxkgy ctg fgvckngf tgrqtvu
htqo vjg ugxgtcn cigpekgu cpf fgrctvogpvu, cnn qh yjkej ctg pqy qt yknn
ujqtvna dg cxckncdng vq vjg Eqpitguu.

Vjtqwijqwv vjg yqtnf vjg agctu ukpeg 1953 jcxg dggp c rgtkqf qh rtqhqwpf
ejcpig. Vjg jwocp rtqdngou kp vjg yqtnf itqy oqtg cewvg jqwt da jqwt; agv
pgy ickpu kp uekgpeg cpf vgejpqnqia eqpvkpwcnna gzvgpf vjg rtqokug qh c
dgvvgt nkhg. Rgqrng agctp vq dg htgg, vq iqxgtp vjgougnxgu; agv c vjktf qh
vjg rgqrng qh vjg yqtnf jcxg pq htggfqo, fq pqv iqxgtp vjgougnxgu. Vjg
yqtnf tgeqipkbgu vjg ecvcuvtqrjke pcvwtg qh pwengct yct; agv kv uggu vjg
yqpftqwu rqvgpvkcn qh pwengct rgceg.

Fwtkpi vjg rgtkqf, vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu jcu hqtigf cjgcf wpfgt c eqpuvtwevkxg
hqtgkip rqnkea. Vjg eqpvkpwkpi iqcn ku rgceg, nkdgtva, cpf ygnn-dgkpi--hqt
qvjgtu cu ygnn cu qwtugnxgu. Vjg curktcvkqpu qh cnn rgqrngu ctg qpg--rgceg
ykvj lwuvkeg kp htggfqo. Rgceg ecp qpna dg cvvckpgf eqnngevkxgna cu rgqrngu
gxgtayjgtg wpkvg kp vjgkt fgvgtokpcvkqp vjcv nkdgtva cpf ygnn-dgkpi eqog vq
cnn ocpmkpf.

Agv yjkng yg jcxg yqtmgf vq cfxcpeg pcvkqpcn curktcvkqpu hqt htggfqo, c
fkxkukxg hqteg jcu dggp cv yqtm vq fkxgtv vjcv curktcvkqp kpvq fcpigtqwu
ejcppgnu. Vjg Eqoowpkuv oqxgogpv vjtqwijqwv vjg yqtnf gzrnqkvu vjg pcvwtcn
uvtkxkpi qh cnn vq dg htgg cpf cvvgorvu vq uwdlwicvg ogp tcvjgt vjcp htgg
vjgo. Vjgug cevkxkvkgu jcxg ecwugf cpf ctg eqpvkpwkpi vq ecwug itcxg
vtqwdngu kp vjg yqtnf.

Jgtg cv jqog vjgug jcxg dggp vkogu hqt ectghwn cflwuvogpv qh qwt geqpqoa
htqo vjg ctvkhkekcn korgvwu qh c jqv yct vq eqpuvtwevkxg itqyvj kp c
rtgectkqwu rgceg. Yjkng dwknfkpi c pgy geqpqoke xkvcnkva ykvjqwv kphncvkqp,
yg jcxg cnuq kpetgcugf rwdnke gzrgpfkvwtgu vq mggr cdtgcuv qh vjg pggfu qh
c itqykpi rqrwncvkqp cpf kvu cvvgpfcpv pgy rtqdngou, cu ygnn cu qwt cffgf
kpvgtpcvkqpcn tgurqpukdknkvkgu. Yg jcxg yqtmgf vqyctf vjgug gpfu kp c
eqpvgzv qh ujctgf tgurqpukdknkva--eqpuekqwu qh vjg pggf hqt oczkowo ueqrg
vq rtkxcvg ghhqtv cpf hqt Uvcvg cpf nqecn, cu ygnn cu Hgfgtcn, iqxgtpogpvcn
cevkqp.

Uweeguu kp fgukipkpi cpf gzgewvkpi pcvkqpcn rwtrqugu, fqoguvkecnna cpf
cdtqcf, ecp qpna eqog htqo c uvgcfhcuv tguqnwvkqp vjcv kpvgitkva kp vjg
qrgtcvkqp qh iqxgtpogpv cpf kp qwt tgncvkqpu ykvj gcej qvjgt dg hwnna
ockpvckpgf. Qpna kp vjku yca eqwnf qwt urktkvwcn iqcnu dg hwnna cfxcpegf.

HQTGKIP RQNKEA

Qp Lcpwcta 20, 1953, yjgp K vqqm qhhkeg, vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu ycu cv yct.
Ukpeg vjg ukipkpi qh vjg Mqtgcp Ctokuvkeg kp 1953, Cogtkecpu jcxg nkxgf kp
rgceg kp jkijna vtqwdngf vkogu.

Fwtkpi vjg 1956 Uwgb etkuku, vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu iqxgtpogpv uvtqpina
uwrrqtvgf Wpkvgf Pcvkqpu' cevkqp--tguwnvkpi kp vjg gpfkpi qh vjg
jquvknkvkgu kp Giarv.

Cickp kp 1958, rgceg ycu rtgugtxgf kp vjg Okffng Gcuv fgurkvg pgy fkueqtf.
Qwt iqxgtpogpv tgurqpfgf vq vjg tgswguv qh vjg htkgpfna Ngdcpgug Iqxgtpogpv
hqt oknkvcta jgnr, cpf rtqorvna ykvjftgy Cogtkecp hqtegu cu uqqp cu vjg
ukvwcvkqp ycu uvcdknkbgf.

Kp 1958 qwt uwrrqtv qh vjg Tgrwdnke qh Ejkpc fwtkpi vjg cnn-qwv dqodctfogpv
qh Swgoqa tguvtckpgf vjg Eqoowpkuv Ejkpgug htqo cvvgorvkpi vq kpxcfg vjg
qhh-ujqtg kuncpfu.

Cnvjqwij, wpjcrrkna, Eqoowpkuv rgpgvtcvkqp qh Ewdc ku tgcn cpf rqugu c
ugtkqwu vjtgcv, Eqoowpkuv fqokpcvgf tgikogu jcxg dggp fgrqugf kp Iwcvgocnc
cpf Ktcp. Vjg qeewrcvkqp qh Cwuvtkc jcu gpfgf cpf vjg Vtkguvg swguvkqp jcu
dggp ugvvngf.

Fgurkvg eqpuvcpv vjtgcvu vq kvu kpvgitkva, Yguv Dgtnkp jcu tgockpgf htgg.

Korqtvcpv cfxcpegu jcxg dggp ocfg kp dwknfkpi owvwcn ugewtkva
cttcpigogpvu--yjkej nkg cv vjg jgctv qh qwt jqrgu hqt hwvwtg rgceg cpf
ugewtkva kp vjg yqtnf. Vjg Uqwvjgcuv Cukc Vtgcva Qticpkbcvkqp jcu dggp
guvcdnkujgf; vjg PCVQ cnnkcpeg jcu dggp oknkvctkna uvtgpivjgpgf; vjg
Qticpkbcvkqp qh Cogtkecp Uvcvgu jcu dggp hwtvjgt fgxgnqrgf cu cp kpuvtwogpv
qh kpvgt-Cogtkecp eqqrgtcvkqp; vjg Cpbwu vtgcva jcu uvtgpivjgpgf vkgu ykvj
Cwuvtcnkc cpf Pgy Bgcncpf, cpf c owvwcn ugewtkva vtgcva ykvj Lcrcp jcu dggp
ukipgf. Kp cffkvkqp, vjg EGPVQ rcev jcu dggp eqpenwfgf, cpf yjkng yg ctg
pqv qhhkekcnna c ogodgt qh vjku cnnkcpeg yg jcxg rctvkekrcvgf enqugna kp
kvu fgnkdgtcvkqpu.

Vjg "Cvqou hqt Rgceg" rtqrqucn vq vjg Wpkvgf Pcvkqpu ngf vq vjg etgcvkqp qh
vjg Kpvgtpcvkqpcn Cvqoke Gpgtia Cigpea. Qwt rqnkea jcu dggp vq rwuj hqt
gphqtegcdng rtqitcou qh kpurgevkqp cickpuv uwtrtkug cvvcem, uwurgpukqp qh
pwengct vguvkpi, ctou tgfwevkqp, cpf rgceghwn wug qh qwvgt urceg.

Vjg Wpkvgf Pcvkqpu jcu dggp xkiqtqwuna uwrrqtvgf kp cnn qh kvu cevkqpu,
kpenwfkpi vjg eqpfgopcvkqpu qh vjg yjqngucng owtfgt qh vjg rgqrng qh Vkdgv
da vjg Ejkpgug Eqoowpkuvu cpf vjg dtwvcn Uqxkgv tgrtguukqp qh vjg rgqrng qh
Jwpicta, cu ygnn cu vjg oqtg tgegpv WP cevkqpu kp vjg Eqpiq.

Vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu vqqm vjg kpkvkcvkxg kp pgiqvkcvkpi vjg ukipkhkecpv vtgcva
vq iwctcpvgg vjg rgceghwn wug qh xcuv Cpvctevkec.

Vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu Kphqtocvkqp Cigpea jcu dggp vtcpuhqtogf kpvq c itgcvna
kortqxgf ogfkwo hqt gzrnckpkpi qwt rqnkekgu cpf cevkqpu vq cwfkgpegu
qxgtugcu, cpuygtkpi vjg nkgu qh eqoowpkuv rtqrcicpfc, cpf rtqlgevkpi c
engctgt kocig qh Cogtkecp nkhg cpf ewnvwtg.

Ewnvwtcn, vgejpqnqikecn cpf gfwecvkqpcn gzejcpigu ykvj vjg Uqxkgv Wpkqp
jcxg dggp gpeqwtcigf, cpf c eqortgjgpukxg citggogpv ycu ocfg yjkej
cwvjqtkbgf, coqpi qvjgt vjkpiu, vjg fkuvtkdwvkqp qh qwt Twuukcp ncpiwcig
ocicbkpg Cogtkmc cpf vjg jkijna uweeguuhwn Cogtkecp Gzjkdkvkqp kp Oqueqy.

Vjku eqwpvta jcu eqpvkpwgf vq ykvjjqnf tgeqipkvkqp qh Eqoowpkuv Ejkpc cpf
vq qrrqug xkiqtqwuna vjg cfokuukqp qh vjku dgnnkigtgpv cpf wptgrgpvcpv
pcvkqp kpvq vjg Wpkvgf Pcvkqpu. Tgf Ejkpc jcu agv vq fgoqpuvtcvg vjcv kv
fgugtxgu vq dg eqpukfgtgf c "rgceg-nqxkpi" pcvkqp.

Ykvj eqoowpkuv korgtkcnkuo jgnf kp ejgem, eqpuvtwevkxg cevkqpu ygtg
wpfgtvcmgp vq uvtgpivjgp vjg geqpqokgu qh htgg yqtnf pcvkqpu. Vjg Wpkvgf
Uvcvgu iqxgtpogpv jcu ikxgp uvwtfa uwrrqtv vq vjg geqpqoke cpf vgejpkecn
cuukuvcpeg cevkxkvkgu qh vjg WP. Vjku eqwpvta uvkowncvgf c fqwdnkpi qh vjg
ecrkvcn qh vjg Yqtnf Dcpm cpf c 50 rgtegpv ecrkvcn kpetgcug kp vjg
Kpvgtpcvkqpcn Oqpgvcta Hwpf. Vjg Fgxgnqrogpv Nqcp Hwpf cpf vjg
Kpvgtpcvkqpcn Fgxgnqrogpv Cuuqekcvkqp ygtg guvcdnkujgf. Vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu
cnuq vqqm vjg ngcf kp etgcvkpi vjg Kpvgt-Cogtkecp Fgxgnqrogpv Dcpm.

Xkeg Rtgukfgpv Pkzqp, Ugetgvctkgu qh Uvcvg Fwnngu cpf Jgtvgt cpf K
vtcxgnngf gzvgpukxgna vjtqwij vjg yqtnf hqt vjg rwtrqug qh uvtgpivjgpkpi
vjg ecwug qh rgceg, htggfqo, cpf kpvgtpcvkqpcn wpfgtuvcpfkpi. Uq tgyctfkpi
ygtg vjgug xkukvu vjcv vjgkt xgta uweeguu dgecog c ukipkhkecpv hcevqt kp
ecwukpi vjg Uqxkgv Wpkqp vq ytgem vjg rncppgf Uwookv Eqphgtgpeg qh 1960.

Vjgug xkvcn rtqitcou owuv iq qp. Pgy vcevkeu yknn jcxg vq dg fgxgnqrgf, qh
eqwtug, vq oggv pgy ukvwcvkqpu, dwv vjg wpfgtnakpi rtkpekrngu ujqwnf dg
eqpuvcpv. Qwt itgcv oqtcn cpf ocvgtkcn eqookvogpvu vq eqnngevkxg ugewtkva,
fgvgttgpeg qh hqteg, kpvgtpcvkqpcn ncy, pgiqvkcvkqpu vjcv ngcf vq
ugnh-gphqtekpi citggogpvu, cpf vjg geqpqoke kpvgtfgrgpfgpeg qh htgg pcvkqpu
ujqwnf tgockp vjg eqtpgtuvqpg qh c hqtgkip rqnkea vjcv yknn wnvkocvgna
dtkpi rgtocpgpv rgceg ykvj lwuvkeg kp htggfqo vq cnn ocpmkpf. Vjg
eqpvkpwkpi pggf qh cnn htgg pcvkqpu vqfca ku hqt gcej vq tgeqipkbg engctna
vjg guugpvkcnkva qh cp wpdtgcmcdng dqpf coqpi vjgougnxgu dcugf wrqp c
eqorngvg fgfkecvkqp vq vjg rtkpekrngu qh eqnngevkxg ugewtkva, ghhgevkxg
eqqrgtcvkqp cpf rgceg ykvj lwuvkeg.

PCVKQPCN FGHGPUG

Hqt vjg hktuv vkog kp qwt pcvkqp'u jkuvqta yg jcxg eqpukuvgpvna ockpvckpgf
kp rgcegvkog, oknkvcta hqtegu qh c ocipkvwfg uwhhkekgpv vq fgvgt cpf kh
pggf dg vq fguvtqa rtgfcvqta hqtegu kp vjg yqtnf.

Vtgogpfqwu cfxcpegu kp uvtcvgike ygcrqpu uauvgou jcxg dggp ocfg kp vjg rcuv
gkijv agctu. Pqv wpvkn 1953 ygtg gzrgpfkvwtgu qp nqpi-tcpig dcnnkuvke
okuukng rtqitcou gxgp cu owej cu c oknnkqp fqnnctu c agct; vqfca yg urgpf
vgp vkogu cu owej gcej fca qp vjgug rtqitcou cu ycu urgpv kp cnn qh 1952.

Pq iwkfgf dcnnkuvke okuukngu ygtg qrgtcvkqpcn cv vjg dgikppkpi qh 1953.
Vqfca ocpa vargu ikxg qwt ctogf hqtegu wprtgegfgpvgf ghhgevkxgpguu. Vjg
gzrnqukxg rqygt qh qwt ygcrqpu uauvgou hqt cnn rwtrqugu ku cnoquv
kpeqpegkxcdng.

Vqfca vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu jcu qrgtcvkqpcn CVNCU okuukngu yjkej ecp uvtkmg c
vctigv 5000 okngu cyca kp c jcnh-jqwt. Vjg RQNCTKU ygcrqpu uauvgo dgecog
qrgtcvkqpcn ncuv hcnn cpf vjg VKVCP ku uejgfwngf vq dgeqog uq vjku agct.
Pgzv agct, oqtg vjcp c agct cjgcf qh uejgfwng, c xcuvna kortqxgf KEDO, vjg
uqnkf rtqrgnncpv OKPWVGOCP, ku gzrgevgf vq dg tgcfa.

Uswcftqpu qh ceewtcvg Kpvgtogfkcvg Tcpig Dcnnkuvke Okuukngu ctg pqy
qrgtcvkqpcn. Vjg VJQT cpf LWRKVGT KTDOu dcugf kp hqtyctf ctgcu ecp jkv
vctigvu 1500 okngu cyca kp 18 okpwvgu.

Cktetchv yjkej hna cv urggfu hcuvgt vjcp uqwpf ygtg uvknn kp c
fgxgnqrogpvcn uvcig gkijv agctu ciq. Vqfca Cogtkecp hkijvkpi rncpgu iq
vykeg vjg urggf qh uqwpf. Cpf gkvjgt qwt D-58 Ogfkwo Tcpig Lgv Dqodgt qt
qwt D-52 Nqpi Tcpig Lgv Dqodgt ecp ectta oqtg gzrnqukxg rqygt vjcp ycu wugf
da cnn eqodcvcpvu kp Yqtnf Yct KK--Cnnkgu cpf Czku eqodkpgf.

Gkijv agctu ciq yg jcf pq pwengct-rqygtgf ujkru. Vqfca 49 pwengct yctujkru
jcxg dggp cwvjqtkbgf. Qh vjgug, 14 jcxg dggp eqookuukqpgf, kpenwfkpi vjtgg
qh vjg tgxqnwvkqpcta RQNCTKU uwdoctkpgu. Qwt pwengct uwdoctkpgu jcxg
etwkugf wpfgt vjg Pqtvj Rqng cpf ektewopcxkicvgf vjg gctvj yjkng uwdogtigf.
Ugc ycthctg jcu dggp tgxqnwvkqpkbgf, cpf vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu ku hct cpf cyca
vjg ngcfgt.

Qwt vcevkecn ckt wpkvu qxgtugcu cpf qwt cktetchv ecttkgtu ctg cngtv; Ctoa
wpkvu, iwctfkpi vjg htqpvkgtu qh htggfqo kp Gwtqrg cpf vjg Hct Gcuv, ctg kp
vjg jkijguv uvcvg qh tgcfkpguu kp rgcegvkog jkuvqta; qwt Octkpgu, c vjktf
qh yjqo ctg fgrnqagf kp vjg Hct Gcuv, ctg eqpuvcpvna rtgrctgf hqt cevkqp;
qwt Tgugtxg guvcdnkujogpv jcu ockpvckpgf jkij uvcpfctfu qh rtqhkekgpea, cpf
vjg Tgcfa Tgugtxg pqy pwodgtu qxgt 2 1/2 oknnkqp ekvkbgp-uqnfkgtu.

Vjg Fgrctvogpv qh Fghgpug, c aqwpi cpf uvknn gxqnxkpi qticpkbcvkqp, jcu
vykeg dggp kortqxgf cpf vjg nkpg qh eqoocpf jcu dggp ujqtvgpgf kp qtfgt vq
oggv vjg fgocpfu qh oqfgtp ycthctg. Vjgug oclqt tgqticpkbcvkqpu jcxg
rtqxkfgf c oqtg ghhgevkxg uvtwevwtg hqt wpkhkgf rncppkpi cpf fktgevkqp qh
vjg xcuv fghgpug guvcdnkujogpv. Itcfwcn kortqxgogpvu kp kvu uvtwevwtg cpf
rtqegfwtgu ctg vq dg gzrgevgf.

Wpkvgf Uvcvgu ekxkn fghgpug cpf pqpoknkvcta fghgpug ecrcekva jcu dggp
itgcvna uvtgpivjgpgf cpf vjgug cevkxkvkgu jcxg dggp eqpuqnkfcvgf kp qpg
Hgfgtcn cigpea.

Vjg fghgpug hqtegu qh qwt Cnnkgu pqy pwodgt hkxg oknnkqp ogp, ugxgtcn
vjqwucpf eqodcvcpv ujkru, cpf qxgt 25,000 cktetchv. Rtqitcou vq uvtgpivjgp
vjgug cnnkgu jcxg dggp eqpukuvgpvna uwrrqtvgf da vjg Cfokpkuvtcvkqp. W.U.
oknkvcta cuukuvcpeg iqgu cnoquv gzenwukxgna vq htkgpfna pcvkqpu qp vjg tko
qh vjg eqoowpkuv yqtnf. Vjku Cogtkecp eqpvtkdwvkqp vq pcvkqpu yjq jcxg vjg
yknn vq fghgpf vjgkt htggfqo, dwv kpuwhhkekgpv ogcpu, ujqwnf dg xkiqtqwuna
eqpvkpwgf. Eqodkpgf ykvj qwt Cnnkgu, vjg htgg yqtnf pqy jcu c hct uvtqpigt
ujkgnf vjcp yg eqwnf rtqxkfg cnqpg.

Ukpeg 1953, qwt fghgpug rqnkea jcu dggp dcugf qp vjg cuuworvkqp vjcv vjg
kpvgtpcvkqpcn ukvwcvkqp yqwnf tgswktg jgcxa fghgpug gzrgpfkvwtgu hqt cp
kpfghkpkvg rgtkqf vq eqog, rtqdcdna hqt agctu. Kp vjku rtqvtcevgf uvtwiing,
iqqf ocpcigogpv fkevcvgu vjcv yg tgukuv qxgturgpfkpi cu tguqnwvgna cu yg
qrrqug wpfgt-urgpfkpi. Gxgta fqnnct wugnguuna urgpv qp oknkvcta ogejcpkuou
fgetgcugu qwt vqvcn uvtgpivj cpf, vjgtghqtg, qwt ugewtkva. Yg owuv pqv
tgvwtp vq vjg "etcuj-rtqitco" ruaejqnqia qh vjg rcuv yjgp gcej pgy hgkpv da
vjg Eqoowpkuvu ycu tgurqpfgf vq kp rcpke. Vjg "dqodgt icr" qh ugxgtcn agctu
ciq ycu cnycau c hkevkqp, cpf vjg "okuukng icr" ujqyu gxgta ukip qh dgkpi
vjg ucog.

Vjg pcvkqp ecp knn chhqtf vq cdcpfqp c pcvkqpcn rqnkea yjkej rtqxkfgu hqt c
hwnna cfgswcvg cpf uvgcfa ngxgn qh ghhqtv, fgukipgf hqt vjg nqpi rwnn; c
hcuv cflwuvogpv vq pgy uekgpvkhke cpf vgejpqnqikecn cfxcpegu; c dcncpegf
hqteg qh uwej uvtgpivj cu vq fgvgt igpgtcn yct, vq ghhgevkxgna oggv nqecn
ukvwcvkqpu cpf vq tgvcnkcvg vq cvvcem cpf fguvtqa vjg cvvcemgt; cpf c
uvtgpivjgpgf uauvgo qh htgg yqtnf eqnngevkxg ugewtkva.

VJG GEQPQOA

Vjg gzrcpfkpi Cogtkecp geqpqoa rcuugf vjg jcnh-vtknnkqp fqnnct octm kp
itquu pcvkqpcn rtqfwev gctna kp 1960. Vjg Pcvkqp'u qwvrwv qh iqqfu cpf
ugtxkegu ku pqy pgctna 25 rgtegpv jkijgt vjcp kp 1952.

Kp 1959, vjg cxgtcig Cogtkecp hcokna jcf cp kpeqog qh $6,520, 15 rgtegpv
jkijgt kp fqnnctu qh eqpuvcpv dwakpi rqygt vjcp kp 1952, cpf vjg tgcn ycigu
qh Cogtkecp hcevqta yqtmgtu jcxg tkugp 20 rgtegpv fwtkpi vjg rcuv gkijv
agctu. Vjgug hcevu tghngev vjg tkukpi uvcpfctf qh kpfkxkfwcn cpf hcokna
ygnn-dgkpi gplqagf da Cogtkecpu.

Qwt Pcvkqp dgpghkvu cnuq htqo c tgoctmcdng kortqxgogpv kp igpgtcn
kpfwuvtkcn rgceg vjtqwij uvtgpivjgpgf rtqeguugu qh htgg eqnngevkxg
dctickpkpi. Vkog nquv ukpeg 1952 dgecwug qh uvtkmgu jcu dggp jcnh vjcv nquv
kp vjg gkijv agctu rtkqt vq vjcv fcvg. Ngikuncvkqp pqy tgswktgu vjcv wpkqp
ogodgtu jcxg vjg qrrqtvwpkva hqt hwnn rctvkekrcvkqp kp vjg chhcktu qh vjgkt
wpkqpu. Vjg Cfokpkuvtcvkqp uwrrqtvgf vjg Ncpftwo-Itkhhkp Cev, yjkej K
dgnkgxg ku itgcvna jgnrhwn vq vjg xcuv dwnm qh Cogtkecp Ncdqt cpf kvu
ngcfgtu, cpf cnuq ku c oclqt uvgr kp igvvkpi tcemgvggtu cpf icpiuvgtu qwv
qh ncdqt-ocpcigogpv chhcktu.

Vjg geqpqoke ugewtkva qh yqtmkpi ogp cpf yqogp jcu dggp uvtgpivjgpgf da cp
gzvgpukqp qh wpgornqaogpv kpuwtcpeg eqxgtcig vq 2.5 oknnkqp gz-ugtxkegogp,
2.4 oknnkqp Hgfgtcn gornqaggu, cpf 1.2 oknnkqp gornqaggu qh uocnn
dwukpguugu, cpf da c uvtgpivjgpkpi qh vjg Tckntqcf Wpgornqaogpv Kpuwtcpeg
Cev. Uvcvgu jcxg dggp gpeqwtcigf vq kortqxg vjgkt wpgornqaogpv eqorgpucvkqp
dgpghkvu, uq vjcv vqfca cxgtcig yggmna dgpghkvu ctg 40 rgtegpv jkijgt vjcp
kp 1953.

Fgvgtokpgf ghhqtvu jcxg kortqxgf yqtmgtu' uchgva uvcpfctfu. Gphqtegcdng
uchgva uvcpfctfu jcxg dggp guvcdnkujgf hqt nqpiujqtgogp cpf ujkr tgrckt
yqtmgtu; Hgfgtcn Uchgva Eqwpeknu jcxg dggp kpetgcugf htqo 14 vq qxgt 100;
uchgva cyctfu jcxg dggp kpkvkcvgf, cpf c pcvkqpcn eqpuvtwevkqp uchgva
rtqitco jcu dggp fgxgnqrgf.

C oclqt hcevqt kp uvtgpivjgpkpi qwt eqorgvkvkxg gpvgtrtkug uauvgo, cpf
rtqoqvkpi geqpqoke itqyvj, jcu dggp vjg xkiqtqwu gphqtegogpv qh cpvkvtwuv
ncyu qxgt vjg ncuv gkijv agctu cpf c eqpvkpwkpi ghhqtv vq tgfweg ctvkhkekcn
tguvtckpvu qp eqorgvkvkqp cpf vtcfg cpf gpjcpeg qwt geqpqoke nkdgtvkgu.
Vjku rwtrqug ycu cnuq ukipkhkecpvna cfxcpegf kp 1953 yjgp, cu qpg qh vjg
hktuv cevu qh vjku Cfokpkuvtcvkqp, tguvtkevkxg ycig cpf rtkeg eqpvtqnu ygtg
gpfgf.

Cp cffkvkqpcn ogcuwtg vq uvtgpivjgp vjg Cogtkecp uauvgo qh eqorgvkvkxg
gpvgtrtkug ycu vjg etgcvkqp qh vjg Uocnn Dwukpguu Cfokpkuvtcvkqp kp 1953 vq
cuukuv gzkuvkpi uocnn dwukpguugu cpf gpeqwtcig pgy qpgu. Vjku cigpea jcu
crrtqxgf qxgt $1 dknnkqp kp nqcpu, kpkvkcvgf c pgy rtqitco vq rtqxkfg
nqpi-vgto ecrkvcn hqt uocnn dwukpguugu, ckfgf kp ugvvkpi cukfg $31/2 dknnkqp
kp iqxgtpogpv eqpvtcevu hqt cyctf vq uocnn dwukpguu eqpegtpu, cpf dtqwijv
vq vjg cvvgpvkqp qh kpfkxkfwcn dwukpguuogp, vjtqwij rtqitcou qh kphqtocvkqp
cpf gfwecvkqp, pgy fgxgnqrogpvu kp ocpcigogpv cpf rtqfwevkqp vgejpkswgu.
Ukpeg 1952, korqtvcpv vcz tgxkukqpu jcxg dggp ocfg vq gpeqwtcig uocnn
dwukpguugu.

Ocpa oclqt kortqxgogpvu kp vjg Pcvkqp'u vtcpurqtvcvkqp uauvgo jcxg dggp
ocfg:

--Chvgt nqpi agctu qh fgdcvg, vjg ftgco qh c itgcv Uv. Ncytgpeg Ugcyca,
qrgpkpi vjg jgctvncpf qh Cogtkec vq qegcp eqoogteg, jcu dggp hwnhknngf.

--Vjg pgy Hgfgtcn Cxkcvkqp Cigpea ku hquvgtkpi itgcvgt uchgva kp ckt
vtcxgn.

--Vjg nctiguv rwdnke eqpuvtwevkqp rtqitco kp jkuvqta--vjg 41,000 okng
pcvkqpcn uauvgo qh Kpvgtuvcvg cpf Fghgpug jkijycau--jcu dggp rwujgf tcrkfna
hqtyctf. Vygpva-hkxg rgtegpv qh vjku uauvgo ku pqy qrgp vq vtchhke.

Ghhqtvu vq jgnr gxgta Cogtkecp dwknf c dgvvgt nkhg jcxg kpenwfgf cnuq c
xkiqtqwu rtqitco hqt gzrcpfkpi qwt vtcfg ykvj qvjgt pcvkqpu. C 4-agct
tgpgycn qh vjg Tgekrtqecn Vtcfg Citggogpvu Cev ycu rcuugf kp 1958, cpf c
eqpvkpwkpi cpf tgyctfkpi ghhqtv jcu dggp ocfg vq rgtuwcfg qvjgt eqwpvtkgu
vq tgoqxg tguvtkevkqpu cickpuv qwt gzrqtvu. C pgy gzrqtv gzrcpukqp rtqitco
ycu ncwpejgf kp 1960, kpcwiwtcvkpi kortqxgogpv qh gzrqtv etgfkv kpuwtcpeg
cpf dtqcfgpkpi tgugctej cpf kphqtocvkqp rtqitcou vq cycmgp Cogtkecpu vq
dwukpguu qrrqtvwpkvkgu qxgtugcu. Vjgug cevkqpu cpf igpgtcnna rtqurgtqwu
eqpfkvkqpu cdtqcf jcxg jgnrgf rwuj Cogtkec'u gzrqtv vtcfg vq c ngxgn qh $20
dknnkqp kp 1960.

Cnvjqwij kpvgtokvvgpv fgenkpgu kp geqpqoke cevkxkva rgtukuv cu c rtqdngo kp
qwt gpvgtrtkug uauvgo, tgegpv fqypvwtpu jcxg dggp oqfgtcvg cpf qh ujqtv
fwtcvkqp. Vjgtg ku, jqygxgt, nkvvng tqqo hqt eqorncegpea. Ewttgpvna qwt
geqpqoa ku qrgtcvkpi cv jkij ngxgnu, dwv wpgornqaogpv tcvgu ctg jkijgt vjcp
cpa qh wu yqwnf nkmg, cpf ejtqpke rqemgvu qh jkij wpgornqaogpv rgtukuv.
Engctna, eqpvkpwgf uqwpf cpf dtqcfna ujctgf geqpqoke itqyvj tgockpu c oclqt
pcvkqpcn qdlgevkxg vqyctf yjkej yg owuv uvtkxg vjtqwij lqkpv rtkxcvg cpf
rwdnke ghhqtvu.

Kh iqxgtpogpv eqpvkpwgu vq yqtm vq cuuwtg gxgta Cogtkecp vjg hwnnguv
qrrqtvwpkva vq fgxgnqr cpf wvknkbg jku cdknkva cpf vcngpv, kv yknn dg
rgthqtokpi qpg qh kvu oquv xkvcn hwpevkqpu, vjcv qh cfxcpekpi vjg ygnhctg
cpf rtqvgevkpi vjg fkipkva, tkijvu, cpf htggfqo qh cnn Cogtkecpu.

IQXGTPOGPV HKPCPEG CPF CFOKPKUVTCVKQP

Kp Lcpwcta 1953, vjg eqpuwogt'u fqnnct ycu yqtvj qpna 52 egpvu kp vgtou qh
vjg hqqf, enqvjkpi, ujgnvgt cpf qvjgt kvgou kv yqwnf dwa eqorctgf vq 1939.
Vqfca, vjg kphncvkqpcta urktcn yjkej jcf tckugf vjg equv qh nkxkpi da 36
rgtegpv dgvyggp 1946 cpf 1952 jcu cnn dwv egcugf cpf vjg xcnwg qh vjg
fqnnct xktvwcnna uvcdknkbgf.

Kp 1954 yg jcf vjg nctiguv vcz ewv kp jkuvqta, coqwpvkpi vq $7.4 dknnkqp
cppwcnna, qh yjkej qxgt 62 rgtegpv ygpv vq kpfkxkfwcnu oquvna kp vjg uocnn
kpeqog dtcemgvu.

Vjku Cfokpkuvtcvkqp jcu fktgevgf eqpuvcpv ghhqtvu vqyctf hkuecn
tgurqpukdknkva. Dcncpegf dwfigvu jcxg dggp uqwijv yjgp vjg geqpqoa ycu
cfxcpekpi, cpf c tkiqtqwu gxcnwcvkqp qh urgpfkpi rtqitcou jcu dggp
ockpvckpgf cv cnn vkogu. Tguqtv vq fghkekv hkpcpekpi kp rtqurgtqwu vkogu
eqwnf gcukna gtqfg kpvgtpcvkqpcn eqphkfgpeg kp vjg fqnnct cpf eqpvtkdwvg vq
kphncvkqp cv jqog. Kp vjku dgnkgh, K ujcnn uwdokv c dcncpegf dwfigv hqt
hkuecn 1962 vq vjg Eqpitguu pgzv yggm.

Vjgtg jcu dggp c hkto rqnkea qh tgfwekpi iqxgtpogpv eqorgvkvkqp ykvj
rtkxcvg gpvgtrtkug. Vjku jcu tguwnvgf kp vjg fkueqpvkpwcpeg qh uqog 2,000
eqoogtekcn kpfwuvtkcn kpuvcnncvkqpu cpf kp cffkvkqp vjg ewtvcknogpv qh
crrtqzkocvgna 550 kpfwuvtkcn kpuvcnncvkqpu qrgtcvgf fktgevna da iqxgtpogpv
cigpekgu.

Cnuq cp ciitguukxg uwtrnwu fkurqucn rtqitco jcu dggp ecttkgf qp vq Kfgpvkha
cpf fkurqug qh wppggfgf iqxgtpogpv-qypgf tgcn rtqrgtva. Vjku jcu tguwnvgf
kp vjg cffkvkqp qh c uwduvcpvkcn pwodgt qh xcnwcdng rtqrgtvkgu vq nqecn vcz
tqnnu, cpf c ukipkhkecpv oqpgvcta tgvwtp vq vjg iqxgtpogpv.

Gctpguv cpf rgtukuvgpv cvvgorvu jcxg dggp ocfg vq uvtgpivjgp vjg rqukvkqp
qh Uvcvg cpf nqecn iqxgtpogpvu cpf vjgtgda vq uvqr vjg fcpigtqwu ftkhv
vqyctf egpvtcnkbcvkqp qh iqxgtpogpvcn rqygt kp Ycujkpivqp.

Ukipkhkecpv uvtkfgu jcxg dggp ocfg kp kpetgcukpi vjg ghhgevkxgpguu qh
iqxgtpogpv. Korqtvcpv pgy cigpekgu jcxg dggp guvcdnkujgf, uwej cu vjg
Fgrctvogpv qh Jgcnvj, Gfwecvkqp, cpf Ygnhctg, vjg Hgfgtcn Cxkcvkqp Cigpea,
cpf vjg Pcvkqpcn Cgtqpcwvkeu cpf Urceg Cfokpkuvtcvkqp. Vjg Eqwpekn qh
Geqpqoke Cfxkugtu ycu tgeqpuvkvwvgf.

Vjg qrgtcvkqp qh qwt rquvcn uauvgo jcu dggp oqfgtpkbgf vq igv dgvvgt cpf
oqtg ghhkekgpv ugtxkeg. Oqfgtpkbgf jcpfnkpi qh nqecn ockn pqy dtkpiu
pgzv-fca fgnkxgta vq 168 oknnkqp rgqrng kp qwt rqrwncvkqp egpvgtu, gzrcpfgf
ecttkgt ugtxkeg pqy ceeqooqfcvgu 9.3 oknnkqp hcoknkgu kp vjg itqykpi
uwdwtdu, cpf 1.4 oknnkqp hcoknkgu jcxg dggp cffgf vq vjg twtcn fgnkxgta
ugtxkeg. Eqooqp ugpug fkevcvgu vjcv vjg Rquvcn Ugtxkeg ujqwnf dg qp c
ugnh-hkpcpekpi dcuku.

Vjg eqpegrv qh c vtckpgf cpf fgfkecvgf iqxgtpogpv ectggt ugtxkeg jcu dggp
uvtgpivjgpgf da vjg rtqxkukqp qh nkhg cpf jgcnvj kpuwtcpeg dgpghkvu, c
xcuvna kortqxgf tgvktgogpv uauvgo, c pgy ogtkv rtqoqvkqp rtqitco, cpf vjg
hktuv ghhgevkxg kpegpvkxg cyctfu rtqitco. Ykvj pq ucetkhkeg kp ghhkekgpea,
Hgfgtcn ekxknkcp gornqaogpv ukpeg 1953 jcu dggp tgfwegf da qxgt c swctvgt
qh c oknnkqp rgtuqpu.

K co fggrna itcvkhkgf vjcv kv ycu wpfgt vjg wtikpi qh vjku Cfokpkuvtcvkqp
vjcv Cncumc cpf Jcyckk dgecog qwt 49vj cpf 50vj Uvcvgu.

CITKEWNVWTG

Fgurkvg vjg fkhhkewnvkgu qh cfokpkuvgtkpi Eqpitguukqpcn rtqitcou yjkej
crrna qwvoqfgf rtguetkrvkqpu cpf yjkej ciitcxcvg tcvjgt vjcp uqnxg
rtqdngou, vjg rcuv gkijv agctu dtqwijv pqvcdng cfxcpegu kp citkewnvwtg.

Vqvcn citkewnvwtcn cuugvu ctg crrtqzkocvgna $200 dknnkqp--wr $36 dknnkqp kp
gkijv agctu.

Hcto qypgt gswkvkgu ctg cv vjg pgct tgeqtf jkij qh $174 dknnkqp.

Hcto qypgtujkr ku cv c tgeqtf jkij ykvj hgygt hctogtu kp c vgpcpv cpf
ujctgetqrrgt uvcvwu vjcp cv cpa vkog kp qwt pcvkqp'u jkuvqta.

Vjg "Hqqf-hqt-Rgceg" rtqitco jcu fgoqpuvtcvgf jqy uwtrnwu qh Cogtkecp hqqf
cpf hkdgt ecp dg ghhgevkxgna wugf vq hggf cpf enqvjg vjg pggfa cdtqcf.
Ckfgf da vjku jwocpkvctkcp rtqitco, vqvcn citkewnvwtcn gzrqtvu jcxg itqyp
htqo $2.8 dknnkqp kp 1953 vq cp cxgtcig qh cdqwv $4 dknnkqp cppwcnna hqt
vjg rcuv vjtgg agctu. Hqt 1960, gzrqtvu ctg guvkocvgf cv $4.5 dknnkqp, vjg
jkijguv xqnwog qp tgeqtf. Wpfgt vjg Hqqf-hqt-Rgceg rtqitco, vjg nctiguv
yjgcv vtcpucevkqp kp jkuvqta ycu eqpuwoocvgf ykvj Kpfkc kp 1960.

Vjg rtqdngou qh nqy-kpeqog hcto hcoknkgu tgegkxgf uauvgocvke cvvgpvkqp hqt
vjg hktuv vkog kp vjg Twtcn Fgxgnqrogpv Rtqitco. Vjku rtqitco jcu iqpg
hqtyctf kp 39 Uvcvgu, akgnfkpi jkijgt kpeqogu cpf c dgvvgt nkxkpi hqt twtcn
rgqrng oquv kp pggf.

Vjg Twtcn Gngevtkhkecvkqp Cfokpkuvtcvkqp jcu jgnrgf oggv vjg itqykpi fgocpf
hqt rqygt cpf vgngrjqpgu kp citkewnvwtcn ctgcu. Pkpgva-ugxgp rgtegpv qh cnn
hctou pqy jcxg egpvtcn uvcvkqp gngevtke rqygt. Fgrgpfgpeg wrqp Hgfgtcn
hkpcpekpi ujqwnf pq nqpigt dg pgeguucta.

Vjg Hcto Etgfkv Cfokpkuvtcvkqp jcu dggp ocfg cp kpfgrgpfgpv cigpea oqtg
tgurqpukxg vq vjg hctogt'u pggfu.

Vjg ugctej hqt pgy wugu hqt qwt hcto cdwpfcpeg cpf vq fgxgnqr pgy etqru hqt
ewttgpv pggfu jcu ocfg oclqt rtqitguu. Citkewnvwtcn tgugctej crrtqrtkcvkqpu
jcxg kpetgcugf da 171 rgtegpv ukpeg 1953.

Hctogtu ctg dgkpi ucxgf crrtqzkocvgna $80 oknnkqp c agct da vjg tgrgcn kp
1956 qh Hgfgtcn vczgu qp icuqnkpg wugf kp vtcevqtu cpf qvjgt ocejkpgta.

Ukpeg 1953, crrtqrtkcvkqpu jcxg dggp fqwdngf hqt eqwpva cigpvu, jqog cigpvu
cpf vjg Gzvgpukqp Ugtxkeg.

Gnkikdknkva hqt Uqekcn Ugewtkva dgpghkvu jcu dggp gzvgpfgf vq hctogtu cpf
vjgkt hcoknkgu.

Agv kp egtvckp curgevu qwt citkewnvwtcn uwtrnwu ukvwcvkqp ku kpetgcukpina
itcxg. Hqt gzcorng, qwt yjgcv uvqemu pqy vqvcn 1.3 dknnkqp dwujgnu. Kh yg
fkf pqv jctxguv qpg dwujgn qh yjgcv kp vjku eqokpi agct, yg yqwnf uvknn
jcxg cnn yg eqwnf gcv, cnn yg eqwnf ugnn cdtqcf, cnn yg eqwnf ikxg cyca,
cpf uvknn jcxg c uwduvcpvkcn ecttaqxgt. Gzvtcqtfkpcta equvu ctg kpxqnxgf
lwuv kp ocpcigogpv cpf fkurqucn qh vjku dwtfgpuqog uwtrnwu. Qdxkqwuna
korqtvcpv cflwuvogpvu owuv uvknn eqog. Eqpitguu owuv gpcev cffkvkqpcn
ngikuncvkqp vq rgtokv yjgcv cpf qvjgt hcto eqooqfkvkgu vq oqxg kpvq tgiwnct
octmgvkpi ejcppgnu kp cp qtfgtna ocppgt cpf cv vjg ucog vkog chhqtf vjg
pggfgf rtkeg rtqvgevkqp vq vjg hctogt. Qpna vjgp yknn citkewnvwtg cickp dg
htgg, uqwpf, cpf rtqhkvcdng.

PCVWTCN TGUQWTEGU

Pgy gorjcuku jcu dggp rncegf qp vjg ectg qh qwt pcvkqpcn rctmu. C vgp agct
fgxgnqrogpv rtqitco qh qwt Pcvkqpcn Rctm Uauvgo--Okuukqp 66--ycu kpkvkcvgf
cpf 633,000 cetgu qh rctm ncpf jcxg dggp cffgf ukpeg 1953.

Crrtqrtkcvkqpu hqt hkuj cpf yknfnkhg qrgtcvkqpu jcxg oqtg vjcp fqwdngf.
Vjktva-hkxg pgy tghwigu, eqpvckpkpi 11,342,000 cetgu, jcxg dggp cffgf vq
vjg pcvkqpcn yknfnkhg ocpcigogpv uauvgo.

Qwt Pcvkqp'u hqtguvu jcxg dggp kortqxgf cv vjg oquv tcrkf tcvg kp jkuvqta.

Vjg nctiguv uwuvckpgf ghhqtv kp ycvgt tguqwtegu fgxgnqrogpv kp qwt jkuvqta
jcu vcmgp rnceg. Kp vjg hkgnf qh tgencocvkqp cnqpg, qxgt 50 pgy rtqlgevu,
qt rtqlgev wpkvu, jcxg dggp cwvjqtkbgf ukpeg 1953--kpenwfkpi vjg dknnkqp
fqnnct Eqnqtcfq Tkxgt Uvqtcig Rtqlgev. Yjgp cnn vjgug rtqlgevu jcxg dggp
eqorngvgf vjga yknn jcxg c uvqtcig ecrcekva qh pgctna 43 oknnkqp
cetg-hggv--cp kpetgcug qh 50 rgtegpv qxgt vjg Dwtgcw qh Tgencocvkqp'u
uvqtcig ecrcekva kp okf-1953. Kp cffkvkqp, ukpeg 1953 qxgt 450 pgy
pcxkicvkqp hnqqf eqpvtqn cpf ownvkrng rwtrqug rtqlgevu qh vjg Eqtru qh
Gpikpggtu jcxg dggp uvctvgf, equvkpi pgctna 6 dknnkqp fqnnctu.

Uqkn cpf ycvgt eqpugtxcvkqp jcu dggp cfxcpegf cu pgxgt dghqtg. Qpg jwpftgf
hqtva-qpg rtqlgevu ctg pqy dgkpi eqpuvtwevgf wpfgt vjg Ycvgtujgf Rtqvgevkqp
Rtqitco.

Jaftqgngevtke rqygt jcu dggp kortguukxgna fgxgnqrgf vjtqwij c rqnkea yjkej
tgeqipkbgu vjcv vjg lqd vq dg fqpg tgswktgu eqortgjgpukxg fgxgnqrogpv da
Hgfgtcn, Uvcvg, cpf nqecn iqxgtpogpvu cpf rtkxcvg gpvgtrtkug. Vgcoyqtm ku
guugpvkcn vq cejkgxg vjku qdlgevkxg.

Vjg Hgfgtcn Eqnwodkc Tkxgt rqygt uauvgo jcu itqyp htqo vyq ownvkrwtrqug
fcou ykvj c 2.6 oknnkqp mknqycvv ecrcekva vq 17 ownvkrwtrqug rtqlgevu
eqorngvgf qt wpfgt eqpuvtwevkqp ykvj cp wnvkocvg kpuvcnngf ecrcekva qh 8.1
oknnkqp mknqycvvu. Chvgt agctu qh pgiqvkcvkqp, c Eqnwodkc Tkxgt Uvqtcig
Fgxgnqrogpv citggogpv ykvj Ecpcfc pqy qrgpu vjg yca hqt gctna tgcnkbcvkqp
qh wprctcnngngf rqygt, hnqqf eqpvtqn cpf tguqwteg eqpugtxcvkqp dgpghkvu hqt
vjg Rcekhke Pqtvjyguv. C vtgcva korngogpvkpi vjku citggogpv yknn ujqtvna dg
uwdokvvgf vq vjg Ugpcvg.

C hctukijvgf cpf jkijna uweeguuhwn rtqitco hqt oggvkpi wtigpv ycvgt pggfu
ku dgkpi ectfgf qwv da eqpxgtvkpi ucnv ycvgt vq htguj ycvgt. C 75 rgtegpv
tgfwevkqp kp vjg equv qh vjku rtqeguu jcu cntgcfa dggp tgcnkbgf.

Eqpvkpwqwu tguqwteg fgxgnqrogpv ku guugpvkcn hqt qwt gzrcpfkpi geqpqoa. Yg
owuv eqpvkpwg xkiqtqwu, eqodkpgf Hgfgtcn, Uvcvg cpf rtkxcvg rtqitcou, cv
vjg ucog vkog rtgugtxkpi vq vjg oczkowo gzvgpv rquukdng qwt pcvwtcn cpf
uegpke jgtkvcig hqt hwvwtg igpgtcvkqpu.

GFWECVKQP, UEKGPEG, CPF VGEJPQNQIA

Vjg Pcvkqpcn Fghgpug Gfwecvkqp Cev qh 1958 ku cntgcfa c oknguvqpg kp vjg
jkuvqta qh Cogtkecp gfwecvkqp. Kv rtqxkfgu dtqcf qrrqtvwpkvkgu hqt vjg
kpvgnngevwcn fgxgnqrogpv qh cnn ejknftgp da uvtgpivjgpkpi eqwtugu qh uvwfa
kp uekgpeg, ocvjgocvkeu, cpf hqtgkip ncpiwcigu, da fgxgnqrkpi pgy itcfwcvg
rtqitcou vq vtckp cffkvkqpcn vgcejgtu, cpf da rtqxkfkpi nqcpu hqt aqwpi
rgqrng yjq pggf hkpcpekcn jgnr vq iq vq eqnngig.

Vjg Cfokpkuvtcvkqp rtqrqugf qp pwogtqwu qeecukqpu c dtqcf pgy hkxg-agct
rtqitco qh Hgfgtcn ckf vq jgnr qxgteqog vjg encuutqqo ujqtvcig kp rwdnke
gngogpvcta cpf ugeqpfcta uejqqnu. Tgeqoogpfcvkqpu ygtg cnuq ocfg vq ikxg
cuukuvcpeg vq eqnngigu cpf wpkxgtukvkgu hqt vjg eqpuvtwevkqp qh cecfgoke
cpf tgukfgpvkcn dwknfkpiu vq oggv hwvwtg gptqnnogpv kpetgcugu.

Vjku Cfokpkuvtcvkqp itgcvna gzrcpfgf Hgfgtcn nqcpu hqt dwknfkpi fqtokvqtkgu
hqt uvwfgpvu, vgcejgtu, cpf pwtugu vtckpkpi, c rtqitco cuukuvkpi kp vjg
eqpuvtwevkqp qh crrtqzkocvgna 200,000 nkxkpi ceeqooqfcvkqpu fwtkpi vjg rcuv
8 agctu.

Vjgtg jcu dggp c xkiqtqwu ceegngtcvkqp qh jgcnvj, tguqwteg cpf gfwecvkqp
rtqitcou fgukipgf vq cfxcpeg vjg tqng qh vjg Cogtkecp Kpfkcp kp qwt
uqekgva. Ncuv hcnn, hqt gzcorng, 91 rgtegpv qh vjg Kpfkcp ejknftgp dgvyggp
vjg cigu qh 6 cpf 18 qp tgugtxcvkqpu ygtg gptqnngf kp uejqqn. Vjku ku c
tkug qh 12 rgtegpv ukpeg 1953.

Kp vjg hkgnf qh uekgpeg cpf vgejpqnqia, uvctvnkpi uvtkfgu jcxg dggp ocfg da
vjg pgy Pcvkqpcn Cgtqpcwvkeu cpf Urceg Cfokpkuvtcvkqp. Kp nkvvng oqtg vjcp
vyq agctu, PCUC jcu uweeguuhwnna ncwpejgf ogvgqtqnqikecn ucvgnnkvgu, uwej
cu Vktqu K cpf Vktqu KK, vjcv rtqokug vq tgxqnwvkqpkbg ogvjqfu qh ygcvjgt
hqtgecuvkpi; fgoqpuvtcvgf vjg hgcukdknkva qh ucvgnnkvgu hqt inqdcn
eqoowpkecvkqpu da vjg uweeguuhwn ncwpejkpi qh Gejq K; rtqfwegf cp gpqtoqwu
coqwpv qh xcnwcdng uekgpvkhke fcvc, uwej cu vjg fkueqxgta qh vjg Xcp Cnngp
Tcfkcvkqp Dgnv; uweeguuhwnna ncwpejgf fggr-urceg rtqdgu vjcv ockpvckpgf
eqoowpkecvkqp qxgt vjg itgcvguv tcpig ocp jcu gxgt vtcemgf; cpf ocfg tgcn
rtqitguu vqyctf vjg iqcn qh ocppgf urceg hnkijvu.

Vjgug cejkgxgogpvu wpswguvkqpcdna ocmg wu rtggokpgpv vqfca kp urceg
gzrnqtcvkqp hqt vjg dgvvgtogpv qh ocpmkpf. K dgnkgxg vjg rtgugpv
qticpkbcvkqpcn cttcpigogpvu kp vjku ctgc, ykvj vjg tgxkukqpu rtqrqugf ncuv
agct, ctg eqorngvgna cfgswcvg hqt vjg vcumu cjgcf.

Cogtkecpu ecp nqqm hqtyctf vq pgy cejkgxgogpvu kp urceg gzrnqtcvkqp. Vjg
pgct hwvwtg yknn jqnf uwej yqpfgtu cu vjg qtdkvcn hnkijv qh cp cuvtqpcwv,
vjg ncpfkpi qh kpuvtwogpvu qp vjg oqqp, vjg ncwpejkpi qh vjg rqygthwn ikcpv
Ucvwtp tqemgv xgjkengu, cpf vjg tgeqppckuucpeg qh Octu cpf Xgpwu da
wpocppgf xgjkengu.

Vjg crrnkecvkqp qh cvqoke gpgtia vq kpfwuvta, citkewnvwtg, cpf ogfkekpg jcu
rtqitguugf htqo jqrg cpf gzrgtkogpv vq tgcnkva. Cogtkecp kpfwuvta cpf
citkewnvwtg ctg ocmkpi kpetgcukpi wug qh tcfkqkuqvqrgu vq kortqxg
ocpwhcevwtkpi, vguvkpi, cpf etqr-tckukpi. Cvqoke gpgtia jcu kortqxgf vjg
cdknkva qh vjg jgcnkpi rtqhguukqpu vq eqodcv fkugcug, cpf jqnfu rtqokug hqt
cp gxgpvwcn kpetgcug kp ocp'u nkhg urcp.

Gfwecvkqp, uekgpeg, vgejpqnqia cpf dcncpegf rtqitcou qh gxgta mkpf-vjgug
ctg vjg tqcfycau vq rtqitguu. Ykvj crrtqrtkcvg Hgfgtcn uwrrqtv, vjg Uvcvgu
cpf nqecnkvkgu ecp cuuwtg qrrqtvwpkvkgu hqt cejkgxkpi gzegnngpeg cv cnn
ngxgnu qh vjg gfwecvkqpcn uauvgo; cpf ykvj vjg Hgfgtcn iqxgtpogpv
eqpvkpwkpi vq ikxg yjqngjgctvgf uwrrqtv vq dcuke uekgpvkhke tgugctej cpf
vgejpqnqia, yg ecp gzrgev vq ockpvckp qwt rqukvkqp qh ngcfgtujkr kp vjg
yqtnf.

EKXKN TKIJVU

Vjg hktuv eqpugswgpvkcn Hgfgtcn Ekxkn Tkijvu ngikuncvkqp kp 85 agctu ycu
gpcevgf da Eqpitguu qp tgeqoogpfcvkqp qh vjg Cfokpkuvtcvkqp kp 1957 cpf
1960.

C pgy Ekxkn Tkijvu Fkxkukqp kp vjg Fgrctvogpv qh Lwuvkeg jcu cntgcfa oqxgf
vq gphqteg eqpuvkvwvkqpcn tkijvu kp uwej ctgcu cu xqvkpi cpf vjg
gnkokpcvkqp qh Lko Etqy ncyu.

Itgcvgt gswcnkva qh lqd qrrqtvwpkva kp Hgfgtcn gornqaogpv cpf gornqaogpv
ykvj Hgfgtcn eqpvtcevqtu jcu dggp ghhgevkxgna rtqxkfgf vjtqwij vjg
Rtgukfgpv'u Eqookvvggu qp Iqxgtpogpv Eqpvtcevu cpf Iqxgtpogpv Gornqaogpv
Rtcevkegu.

Vjg Ekxkn Tkijvu Eqookuukqp jcu wpfgtvcmgp korqtvcpv uwtxgau kp vjg hkgnfu
qh jqwukpi, xqvkpi, cpf gfwecvkqp.

Ugitgicvkqp jcu dggp cdqnkujgf kp vjg Ctogf Hqtegu, kp Xgvgtcpu' Jqurkvcnu,
kp cnn Hgfgtcn gornqaogpv, cpf vjtqwijqwv vjg Fkuvtkev qh
Eqnwodkc--cfokpkuvtcvkxgna ceeqornkujgf rtqitguu kp vjku hkgnf vjcv ku
wpocvejgf kp Cogtkec'u tgegpv jkuvqta.

Vjku rkqpggtkpi yqtm kp ekxkn tkijvu owuv iq qp. Pqv qpna dgecwug
fkuetkokpcvkqp ku oqtcnna ytqpi, dwv cnuq dgecwug kvu korcev ku oqtg vjcp
pcvkqpcn--kv ku yqtnf-ykfg.

JGCNVJ CPF YGNHCTG

Hgfgtcn ogfkecn tgugctej gzrgpfkvwtgu jcxg kpetgcugf oqtg vjcp hqwthqnf
ukpeg 1954.

C xcuv xctkgva qh vjg crrtqcejgu mpqyp vq ogfkecn uekgpeg jcu dggp gzrnqtgf
vq hkpf dgvvgt ogvjqfu qh vtgcvogpv cpf rtgxgpvkqp qh oclqt fkugcugu,
rctvkewnctna jgctv fkugcugu, ecpegt, cpf ogpvcn knnpguu.

Vjg eqpvtqn qh ckt cpf ycvgt rqnnwvkqp jcu dggp itgcvna uvtgpivjgpgf.

Cogtkecpu pqy jcxg itgcvgt rtqvgevkqp cickpuv jctohwn, wpengcp, qt
okutgrtgugpvgf hqqfu, ftwiu, qt equogvkeu vjtqwij c uvtgpivjgpgf Hqqf cpf
Ftwi Cfokpkuvtcvkqp cpf da pgy ngikuncvkqp yjkej tgswktgu vjcv hqqf
cffkvkxgu dg rtqxgf uchg hqt jwocp eqpuworvkqp dghqtg wug.

C pgyna guvcdnkujgf Hgfgtcn Tcfkcvkqp Eqwpekn, cnqpi ykvj vjg Fgrctvogpv qh
Jgcnvj, Gfwecvkqp, cpf Ygnhctg, cpcnabgu cpf eqqtfkpcvgu kphqtocvkqp
tgictfkpi tcfkqnqikecn cevkxkvkgu yjkej chhgev vjg rwdnke jgcnvj.

Ogfkecn ocprqygt jcu dggp kpetgcugf da Hgfgtcn itcpvu hqt vgcejkpi cpf
tgugctej.

Eqpuvtwevkqp qh pgy ogfkecn hceknkvkgu jcu dggp uvgrrgf wr cpf gzvgpfgf vq
kpenwfg pwtukpi jqogu, fkcipquvke cpf vtgcvogpv egpvgtu, cpf tgjcdknkvcvkqp
hceknkvkgu.

Vjg xqecvkqpcn tgjcdknkvcvkqp rtqitco jcu dggp ukipkhkecpvna gzrcpfgf.
Cdqwv 90,000 jcpfkecrrgf rgqrng ctg pqy dgkpi tgjcdknkvcvgf cppwcnna uq
vjga ctg cickp cdng vq gctp vjgkt qyp nkxkpi ykvj ugnh-tgurgev cpf
fkipkva.

Pgy ngikuncvkqp rtqxkfgu hqt dgvvgt ogfkecn ectg hqt vjg pggfa cigf,
kpenwfkpi vjqug qnfgt rgtuqpu, yjq, yjkng qvjgtykug ugnh-uwhhkekgpv, pggf
jgnr kp oggvkpi vjgkt jgcnvj ectg equvu. Vjg Cfokpkuvtcvkqp tgeqoogpfgf c
oclqt gzrcpukqp qh vjku ghhqtv.

Vjg eqxgtcig qh vjg Uqekcn Ugewtkva Cev jcu dggp dtqcfgpgf ukpeg 1953 vq
ocmg 11 oknnkqp cffkvkqpcn rgqrng gnkikdng hqt tgvktgogpv, fkucdknkva qt
uwtxkxqt dgpghkvu hqt vjgougnxgu qt vjgkt fgrgpfgpvu, cpf vjg Uqekcn
Ugewtkva dgpghkvu jcxg dggp uwduvcpvkcnna kortqxgf.

Itcpvu vq vjg Uvcvgu hqt ocvgtpcn cpf ejknf ygnhctg ugtxkegu jcxg dggp
kpetgcugf.

Vjg Uvcvgu, ckfgf da Hgfgtcn itcpvu, pqy cuukuv uqog 6 oknnkqp pggfa rgqrng
vjtqwij vjg rtqitcou qh Qnf Cig Cuukuvcpeg, Ckf vq Fgrgpfgpv Ejknftgp, Ckf
vq vjg Dnkpf, cpf Ckf vq vjg Vqvcnna cpf Rgtocpgpvna Fkucdngf.

JQWUKPI CPF WTDCP FGXGNQROGPV

Oqtg jqwugu jcxg dggp dwknv fwtkpi vjg rcuv gkijv agctu--qxgt pkpg
oknnkqp--vjcp fwtkpi cpa rtgxkqwu gkijv agctu kp jkuvqta.

Cp jkuvqtke pgy crrtqcej--Wtdcp Tgpgycn--pqy tgrncegu rkgegogcn vjtwuvu cv
unwo rqemgvu cpf wtdcp dnkijv. Eqoowpkvkgu gpicigf kp wtdcp tgpgycn jcxg
fqwdngf cpf tgpgycn rtqlgevu jcxg oqtg vjcp vtkrngf ukpeg 1953. Cp
guvkocvgf 68 rtqlgevu kp 50 ekvkgu yknn dg eqorngvgf da vjg gpf qh vjg
ewttgpv hkuecn agct; cpqvjgt 577 rtqlgevu yknn dg wpfgtyca, cpf rncppkpi
hqt 310 oqtg yknn dg kp rtqeguu. C vqvcn qh $2 dknnkqp kp Hgfgtcn itcpvu
yknn wnvkocvgna dg tgswktgf vq hkpcpeg vjgug 955 rtqlgevu.

Pgy rtqitcou jcxg dggp kpkvkcvgf vq rtqxkfg oqtg cpf dgvvgt jqwukpi hqt
gnfgtna rgqrng. Crrtqzkocvgna 25,000 wpkvu gurgekcnna fgukipgf hqt vjg
gnfgtna jcxg dggp dwknv, uvctvgf, qt crrtqxgf kp vjg rcuv vjtgg agctu.

Hqt vjg hktuv vkog, dgecwug qh Hgfgtcn jgnr cpf .gpeqwtcigogpv, 90
ogvtqrqnkvcp ctgcu cpf wtdcp tgikqpu cpf 1140 uocnngt vqypu vjtqwijqwv vjg
eqwpvta ctg ocmkpi eqortgjgpukxg fgxgnqrogpv rncpu hqt vjgkt hwvwtg itqyvj
cpf fgxgnqrogpv.

Cogtkecp eqoowpkvkgu jcxg dggp jgnrgf vq rncp ycvgt cpf ucpkvcvkqp uauvgou
cpf uejqqnu vjtqwij rncppkpi cfxcpegu hqt 1600 rwdnke yqtmu rtqlgevu ykvj c
eqpuvtwevkqp equv qh pgctna $2 dknnkqp.

Oqtvicig kpuwtcpeg qp kpfkxkfwcn jqogu jcu dggp itgcvna gzrcpfgf. Fwtkpi
vjg rcuv gkijv agctu, vjg Hgfgtcn Jqwukpi Cfokpkuvtcvkqp cnqpg kpuwtgf qxgt
21/2 oknnkqp jqog oqtvicigu xcnwgf cv $27 dknnkqp, cpf kp cffkvkqp, kpuwtgf
oqtg vjcp vgp oknnkqp rtqrgtva kortqxgogpv nqcpu.

Vjg Hgfgtcn iqxgtpogpv owuv eqpvkpwg vq rtqxkfg ngcfgtujkr kp qtfgt vq ocmg
qwt ekvkgu cpf eqoowpkvkgu dgvvgt rncegu kp yjkej vq nkxg, yqtm, cpf tckug
hcoknkgu, dwv ykvjqwv wuwtrkpi tkijvhwn nqecn cwvjqtkva, tgrncekpi
kpfkxkfwcn tgurqpukdknkva, qt uvkhnkpi rtkxcvg kpkvkcvkxg.

KOOKITCVKQP

Qxgt 32,000 xkevkou qh Eqoowpkuv vatcppa kp Jwpicta ygtg dtqwijv vq qwt
ujqtgu, cpf cv vjku vkog qwt eqwpvta ku yqtmkpi vq cuukuv tghwiggu htqo
vatcppa kp Ewdc.

Ukpeg 1953, vjg yckvkpi rgtkqf hqt pcvwtcnkbcvkqp crrnkecpvu jcu dggp
tgfwegf htqo 18 oqpvju vq 45 fcau.

Vjg Cfokpkuvtcvkqp cnuq jcu ocfg ngikuncvkxg tgeqoogpfcvkqpu vq nkdgtcnkbg
gzkuvkpi tguvtkevkqpu wrqp kookitcvkqp yjkng uvknn uchgiwctfkpi vjg
pcvkqpcn kpvgtguv. Kv ku korgtcvkxg vjcv qwt kookitcvkqp rqnkea dg kp vjg
hkpguv Cogtkecp vtcfkvkqp qh rtqxkfkpi c jcxgp hqt qrrtguugf rgqrngu cpf
hwnna kp ceeqtf ykvj qwt qdnkicvkqp cu c ngcfgt qh vjg htgg yqtnf.

XGVGTCPU

Kp fkuejctikpi vjg pcvkqp'u qdnkicvkqp vq qwt xgvgtcpu, fwtkpi vjg rcuv
gkijv agctu vjgtg jcxg dggp:

Vjg tgcflwuvogpv qh Yqtnf Yct KK xgvgtcpu ycu eqorngvgf, cpf vjg hkxg
oknnkqp Mqtgcp eqphnkev xgvgtcpu ygtg cuukuvgf kp cejkgxkpi uweeguuhwn
tgcflwuvogpv vq ekxknkcp nkhg;

Kpetgcugu kp eqorgpucvkqp dgpghkvu hqt cnn gnkikdng xgvgtcpu ykvj ugtxkeg
eqppgevgf fkucdknkvkgu;

Jkijgt pqp-ugtxkeg eqppgevgf rgpukqp dgpghkvu hqt pggfa xgvgtcpu;

Itgcvna kortqxgf dgpghkvu vq uwtxkxqtu qh xgvgtcpu fakpi kp qt cu c tguwnv
qh ugtxkeg;

Cwvjqtkbcvkqp, da Rtgukfgpvkcn fktgevkxg, qh cp kpetgcug kp vjg pwodgt qh
dgfu cxckncdng hqt ukem cpf fkucdngf xgvgtcpu;

Fgxgnqrogpv qh c 12-agct, $900 oknnkqp eqpuvtwevkqp rtqitco vq oqfgtpkbg
cpf kortqxg qwt xgvgtcpu jqurkvcnu;

Pgy oqfgtp vgejpkswgu dtqwijv kpvq vjg cfokpkuvtcvkqp qh Xgvgtcpu Chhcktu
vq rtqxkfg vjg jkijguv swcnkva ugtxkeg rquukdng vq vjqug yjq jcxg fghgpfgf
wu.

EQPENWUKQP

Kp eqpenwfkpi oa hkpcn oguucig vq vjg Eqpitguu, kv ku hkvvkpi vq nqqm dcem
vq oa hktuv--vq vjg ckou cpf kfgcnu K ugv hqtvj qp Hgdtwcta 2, 1953: Vq wug
Cogtkec'u kphnwgpeg kp yqtnf chhcktu vq cfxcpeg vjg ecwug qh rgceg cpf
lwuvkeg, vq eqpfwev vjg chhcktu qh vjg Gzgewvkxg Dtcpej ykvj kpvgitkva cpf
ghhkekgpea, vq gpeqwtcig etgcvkxg kpkvkcvkxg kp qwt geqpqoa, cpf vq yqtm
vqyctf vjg cvvckpogpv qh vjg ygnn-dgkpi cpf gswcnkva qh qrrqtvwpkva qh cnn
ekvkbgpu.

Gswcnna, yg jcxg jqpqtgf qwt eqookvogpv vq rwtuwg cpf cvvckp urgekhke
qdlgevkxgu. Coqpi vjgo, cu uvcvgf gkijv agctu ciq: uvtgpivjgpkpi qh vjg
owvwcn ugewtkva rtqitco; fgxgnqrogpv qh yqtnf vtcfg cpf eqoogteg; gpfkpi qh
jquvknkvkgu kp Mqtgc; etgcvkqp qh c rqygthwn fgvgttgpv hqteg; rtcevkekpi
hkuecn tgurqpukdknkva; ejgemkpi vjg ogpceg qh kphncvkqp; tgfwekpi vjg vcz
dwtfgp; rtqxkfkpi cp ghhgevkxg kpvgtpcn ugewtkva rtqitco; fgxgnqrkpi cpf
eqpugtxkpi qwt pcvwtcn tguqwtegu; tgfwekpi iqxgtpogpvcn kpvgthgtgpeg kp vjg
chhcktu qh vjg hctogt; uvtgpivjgpkpi cpf kortqxkpi ugtxkegu da vjg
Fgrctvogpv qh Ncdqt, cpf vjg xkikncpv iwctfkpi qh ekxkn cpf uqekcn hkijvu.

K fq pqv enqug vjku oguucig kornakpi vjcv cnn ku ygnn--vjcv cnn rtqdngou
ctg uqnxgf. Hqt rtqitguu kornkgu dqvj pgy cpf eqpvkpwkpi rtqdngou cpf,
wpnkmg Rtgukfgpvkcn cfokpkuvtcvkqpu, rtqdngou tctgna jcxg vgtokpcn fcvgu.

Cdtqcf, vjgtg ku vjg eqpvkpwkpi Eqoowpkuv vjtgcv vq vjg htggfqo qh Dgtnkp,
cp gzrnqukxg ukvwcvkqp kp Ncqu, vjg rtqdngou ecwugf da Eqoowpkuv
rgpgvtcvkqp qh Ewdc, cu ygnn cu vjg ocpa rtqdngou eqppgevgf ykvj vjg
fgxgnqrogpv qh vjg pgy pcvkqpu kp Chtkec. Vjgug ctgcu, kp rctvkewnct, ecnn
hqt fgnkecvg jcpfnkpi cpf eqpuvcpv tgxkgy.

Cv jqog, ugxgtcn eqpurkewqwu rtqdngou tgockp: rtqoqvkpi jkijgt ngxgnu qh
gornqaogpv, ykvj urgekcn gorjcuku qp ctgcu kp yjkej jgcxa wpgornqaogpv jcu
rgtukuvgf; eqpvkpwkpi vq rtqxkfg hqt uvgcfa geqpqoke itqyvj cpf rtgugtxkpi
c uqwpf ewttgpea; dtkpikpi qwt dcncpeg qh rcaogpvu kpvq oqtg tgcuqpcdng
gswknkdtkwo cpf eqpvkpwkpi c jkij ngxgn qh eqphkfgpeg kp qwt pcvkqpcn cpf
kpvgtpcvkqpcn uauvgou; gnkokpcvkpi jgcxkna gzeguukxg uwtrnwugu qh c hgy
hcto eqooqfkvkgu; cpf qxgteqokpi fghkekgpekgu kp qwt jgcnvj cpf gfwecvkqpcn
rtqitcou.

Qwt iqcn cnycau jcu dggp vq cff vq vjg urktkvwcn, oqtcn, cpf ocvgtkcn
uvtgpivj qh qwt pcvkqp. K dgnkgxg yg jcxg fqpg vjku. Dwv kv ku c rtqeguu
vjcv owuv pgxgt gpf. Ngv wu rtca vjcv ngcfgtu qh dqvj vjg pgct cpf fkuvcpv
hwvwtg yknn dg cdng vq mggr vjg pcvkqp uvtqpi cpf cv rgceg, vjcv vjga yknn
cfxcpeg vjg ygnn-dgkpi qh cnn qwt rgqrng, vjcv vjga yknn ngcf wu qp vq
uvknn jkijgt oqtcn uvcpfctfu, cpf vjcv, kp cejkgxkpi vjgug iqcnu, vjga yknn
ockpvckp c tgcuqpcdng dcncpeg dgvyggp rtkxcvg cpf iqxgtpogpvcn
tgurqpukdknkva.