Ze. Cerfvqrag, Ze. Fcrnxre, Zrzoref bs gur 86gu Pbaterff, zl sryybj
pvgvmraf:

Guvf vf gur zbzrag jura Pbaterff naq gur Rkrphgvir naahnyyl ortva gurve
pbbcrengvir jbex gb ohvyq n orggre Nzrevpn.

Bar onfvp checbfr havgrf hf: Gb cebzbgr fgeratgu naq frphevgl, fvqr ol fvqr
jvgu yvoregl naq bccbeghavgl.

Nf jr zrrg gbqnl, va gur 170gu lrne bs gur Erchoyvp, bhe Angvba zhfg
pbagvahr gb cebivqr--nf nyy bgure serr tbireazragf unir unq gb qb
guebhtubhg gvzr--n fngvfsnpgbel nafjre gb n dhrfgvba nf byq nf uvfgbel. Vg
vf: Pna Tbireazrag onfrq hcba yvoregl naq gur Tbq-tvira evtugf bs zna,
creznaragyl raqher jura prnfryrffyl punyyratrq ol n qvpgngbefuvc, ubfgvyr
gb bhe zbqr bs yvsr, naq pbagebyyvat na rpbabzvp naq zvyvgnel cbjre bs
terng naq tebjvat fgeratgu?

Sbe hf gur nafjre unf nyjnlf orra sbhaq, naq vf fgvyy sbhaq va gur
qribgvba, gur ivfvba, gur pbhentr naq gur sbegvghqr bs bhe crbcyr.

Zberbire, guvf punyyratr jr snpr, abg nf n fvatyr cbjreshy angvba, ohg nf
bar gung unf va erprag qrpnqrf ernpurq n cbfvgvba bs erpbtavmrq yrnqrefuvc
va gur Serr Jbeyq.

Jr unir neevirq ng guvf cbfvgvba bs yrnqrefuvc va na ren bs erznexnoyr
cebqhpgvivgl naq tebjgu. Vg vf nyfb n gvzr jura zna'f cbjre bs znff
qrfgehpgvba unf ernpurq srneshy cebcbegvbaf.

Cbffrffvba bs fhpu pncnovyvgvrf urycf perngr jbeyq fhfcvpvba naq grafvba.
Jr, ba bhe cneg, xabj gung jr frrx bayl n whfg crnpr sbe nyy, jvgu
ntterffvir qrfvtaf ntnvafg ab bar. Lrg jr ernyvmr gung gurer vf harnfvarff
va gur jbeyq orpnhfr bs n oryvrs ba gur cneg bs crbcyrf gung guebhtu
neebtnapr, zvfpnyphyngvba be srne bs nggnpx, pngnfgebcuvp jne pbhyq or
ynhapurq. Xrrcvat gur crnpr va gbqnl'f jbeyq zber guna rire pnyyf sbe gur
hgzbfg va gur angvba'f erfbyhgvba, jvfqbz, fgrnqvarff naq haerzvggvat
rssbeg.

Jr pnaabg ohvyq crnpr guebhtu qrfver nybar. Zberbire, jr unir yrnearq gur
ovggre yrffba gung vagreangvbany nterrzragf, uvfgbevpnyyl pbafvqrerq ol hf
nf fnperq, ner ertneqrq va Pbzzhavfg qbpgevar naq va cenpgvpr gb or zrer
fpencf bs cncre. Gur zbfg erprag cebbs bs gurve qvfqnva bs vagreangvbany
boyvtngvbaf, fbyrzayl haqregnxra, vf gurve naabhaprq vagragvba gb nonaqba
gurve erfcbafvovyvgvrf erfcrpgvat Oreyva.

Nf n pbafrdhrapr, jr pna unir ab pbasvqrapr va nal gerngl gb juvpu
Pbzzhavfgf ner n cnegl rkprcg jurer fhpu n gerngl cebivqrf jvguva vgfrys
sbe frys-rasbepvat zrpunavfzf. Vaqrrq, gur qrzbafgengrq qvfertneq bs gur
Pbzzhavfgf bs gurve bja cyrqtrf vf bar bs gur terngrfg bofgnpyrf gb fhpprff
va fhofgvghgvat gur Ehyr bs Ynj sbe ehyr ol sbepr.

Lrg fgrc ol fgrc jr zhfg fgeratgura gur vafgvghgvbaf bs crnpr--n crnpr gung
erfgf hcba whfgvpr--n crnpr gung qrcraqf hcba n qrrc xabjyrqtr naq qrne
haqrefgnaqvat ol nyy crbcyrf bs gur pnhfr naq pbafrdhraprf bs cbffvoyr
snvyher va guvf terng checbfr.

Gb npuvrir guvf crnpr jr frrx gb cerirag jne ng nal cynpr naq va nal
qvzrafvba. Vs, qrfcvgr bhe orfg rssbegf, n ybpny qvfchgr fubhyq syner vagb
nezrq ubfgvyvgvrf, gur arkg ceboyrz jbhyq or gb xrrc gur pbasyvpg sebz
fcernqvat, naq fb pbzcebzvfvat serrqbz. Va fhccbeg bs gurfr bowrpgvirf jr
znvagnva sbeprf bs terng cbjre naq syrkvovyvgl.

Bhe sbezvqnoyr nve fgevxvat sbeprf ner n cbjreshy qrgreerag gb trareny jne.
Ynetr naq tebjvat cbegvbaf bs gurfr havgf pna qrcneg sebz gurve onfrf va n
znggre bs zvahgrf.

Fvzvyne sbeprf ner vapyhqrq va bhe aniny syrrgf.

Tebhaq naq bgure gnpgvpny sbezngvbaf pna zbir jvgu fjvsgarff naq cerpvfvba,
jura erdhrfgrq ol sevraqyl naq erfcbafvoyr tbireazragf, gb uryc pheo
guerngrarq ntterffvba. Gur fgnovyvmvat vasyhrapr bs guvf pncnpvgl unf orra
qenzngvpnyyl qrzbafgengrq zber guna bapr bire gur cnfg lrne.

Bhe zvyvgnel naq eryngrq fpvragvsvp cebterff unf orra uvtuyl tengvslvat.

Terng fgevqrf unir orra znqr va gur qrirybczrag bs onyyvfgvp zvffvyrf.
Vagrezrqvngr enatr zvffvyrf ner abj orvat qrcyblrq va bcrengvbany havgf.
Gur Nevnf vagrepbagvaragny onyyvfgvp zvffvyr cebtenz unf orra znexrq ol
encvq qrirybczrag nf rivqraprq ol erprag fhpprffshy grfgf. Zvffvyr genvavat
havgf unir orra rfgnoyvfurq naq ynhapuvat fvgrf ner sne nybat va
pbafgehpgvba.

Arj nvepensg gung syl ng gjvpr gur fcrrq bs fbhaq ner ragrevat bhe
fdhnqebaf.

Jr unir fhpprffshyyl cynprq svir fngryyvgrf va beovg, juvpu unir tngurerq
vasbezngvba bs fpvragvsvp vzcbegnapr arire orsber ninvynoyr. Bhe yngrfg
fngryyvgr vyyhfgengrf bhe fgrnql nqinapr va ebpxrgel naq sberfunqbjf arj
qrirybczragf va jbeyq-jvqr pbzzhavpngvbaf.

Jneavat flfgrzf pbafgnagyl vzcebir.

Bhe ngbzvp fhoznevarf unir funggrerq raqhenapr erpbeqf naq znqr uvfgbevp
iblntrf haqre gur Abegu Cbyne Frn.

N znwbe frtzrag bs bhe angvbany fpvragvsvp naq ratvarrevat pbzzhavgl vf
jbexvat vagrafviryl gb npuvrir arj naq terngre qrirybczragf. Nqinapr va
zvyvgnel grpuabybtl erdhverf nqrdhngr svanapvat ohg, bs pbhefr, rira zber,
vg erdhverf gnyrag naq gvzr.

Nyy guvf vf tvira bayl nf n znggre bs uvfgbel; nf n erpbeq bs bhe cebterff
va fcnpr naq onyyvfgvp zvffvyr svryqf va ab zber guna sbhe lrnef bs
vagrafvir rssbeg. Ng gur fnzr gvzr jr pyrneyl erpbtavmr gung fbzr bs gur
erprag Fbivrg nppbzcyvfuzragf va guvf cnegvphyne grpuabybtl ner vaqrrq
oevyyvnag.

Haqre gur ynj ranpgrq ynfg lrne gur Qrcnegzrag bs Qrsrafr vf orvat
erbetnavmrq gb tvir gur Frpergnel bs Qrsrafr shyy nhgubevgl bire gur
zvyvgnel rfgnoyvfuzrag. Terngre rssvpvrapl, zber pburfvir rssbeg naq
fcrrqvre ernpgvba gb rzretrapvrf ner nzbat gur znal nqinagntrf jr ner
nyernql abgvat sebz gurfr punatrf.

Gurfr srj uvtuyvtugf cbvag hc bhe fgrnql zvyvgnel tnvaf. Jr ner evtugshyyl
tengvsvrq ol gur npuvrirzragf gurl ercerfrag. Ohg jr zhfg erzrzore gung
gurfr vzcbfvat neznzragf ner chepunfrq ng terng pbfg.

Angvbany Frphevgl cebtenzf nppbhag sbe arneyl fvkgl creprag bs gur ragver
Srqreny ohqtrg sbe guvf pbzvat svfpny lrne.

Zbqrea jrncbaf ner rkprrqvatyl rkcrafvir.

Gur birenyy pbfg bs vagebqhpvat NGYNF vagb bhe nezrq sbeprf jvyy nirentr
$35 zvyyvba cre zvffvyr ba gur svevat yvar.

Guvf lrne jr ner vairfgvat na nttertngr bs pybfr gb $7 ovyyvba va zvffvyr
cebtenzf nybar.

Bgure ovyyvbaf tb sbe erfrnepu, qrirybczrag, grfg naq rinyhngvba bs arj
jrncbaf flfgrzf.

Bhe yngrfg ngbzvp fhoznevarf jvyy pbfg $50 zvyyvbaf rnpu, juvyr fbzr
fcrpvny glcrf jvyy pbfg guerr gvzrf nf zhpu.

Jr ner abj beqrevat svtugre nvepensg juvpu ner cevprq ng svsgl gvzrf nf
zhpu nf gur svtugref bs Jbeyq Jne VV.

Jr ner ohlvat pregnva obzoref gung pbfg gurve jrvtug va tbyq.

Gurfr fhzf ner gerzraqbhf, rira jura pbzcnerq jvgu gur zneirybhf erfvyvrapl
naq pncnpvgl bs bhe rpbabzl.

Fhpu rkcraqvgherf qrznaq obgu onynapr naq crefcrpgvir va bhe cynaavat sbe
qrsrafr. Ng rirel ghea, jr zhfg jrvtu, whqtr naq fryrpg. Arrqyrff
qhcyvpngvba bs jrncbaf naq sbeprf zhfg or nibvqrq.

Jr zhfg thneq ntnvafg srirevfu ohvyqvat bs infg neznzragf gb zrrg tyvoyl
cerqvpgrq zbzragf bs fb-pnyyrq "znkvzhz crevy." Gur guerng jr snpr vf abg
fcbenqvp be qngrq: Vg vf pbagvahbhf. Urapr jr zhfg abg or fjnlrq va bhe
pnyphyngvbaf rvgure ol tebhaqyrff srne be ol pbzcynprapl. Jr zhfg nibvq
rkgerzrf, sbe inpvyyngvba orgjrra rkgerzrf vf varssvpvrag, pbfgyl, naq
qrfgehpgvir bs zbenyr. Va gurfr qnlf bs haprnfvat grpuabybtvpny nqinapr, jr
zhfg cyna bhe qrsrafr rkcraqvgherf flfgrzngvpnyyl naq jvgu pner, shyyl
erpbtavmvat gung bofbyrfprapr pbzcryf gur arire-raqvat ercynprzrag bs byqre
jrncbaf jvgu arj barf.

Gur qrsrafr ohqtrg sbe gur pbzvat lrne unf orra cynaarq ba gur onfvf bs
gurfr cevapvcyrf naq pbafvqrengvbaf. Bire gurfr znal zbaguf V unir
crefbanyyl cnegvpvcngrq va vgf qrirybczrag.

Gur nvz vf n frafvoyr cbfgher bs qrsrafr. Gur frpbaqnel nvz vf vapernfrq
rssvpvrapl naq nibvqnapr bs jnfgr. Obgu ner npuvrirq ol guvf ohqtrgnel
cyna.

Jbexvat ol gurfr thvqr yvarf V oryvrir jvgu nyy zl urneg gung Nzrevpn pna
or nf fher bs gur fgeratgu naq rssvpvrapl bs ure nezrq sbeprf nf fur vf bs
gurve yblnygl. V nz rdhnyyl fher gung gur angvba jvyy guhf nibvq hfryrff
rkcraqvgherf juvpu, va gur anzr bs frphevgl, zvtug graq gb haqrezvar gur
rpbabzl naq, gurersber, gur angvba'f fnsrgl.

Bhe bja infg fgeratgu vf bayl n cneg bs gung erdhverq sbe qrcraqnoyr
frphevgl. Orpnhfr bs guvf jr unir wbvarq jvgu arneyl 50 bgure angvbaf va
pbyyrpgvir frphevgl neenatrzragf. Va gurfr pbzzba haqregnxvatf rnpu angvba
vf rkcrpgrq gb pbagevohgr jung vg pna va funevat gur urnil ybnq. Rnpu
fhccyvrf cneg bs n fgengrtvp qrcyblzrag gb cebgrpg gur sbejneq obhaqnevrf
bs serrqbz.

Pbafgnagyl jr frrx arj jnlf gb znxr zber rssrpgvir bhe pbagevohgvba gb guvf
flfgrz bs pbyyrpgvir frphevgl. Erpragyl V unir nfxrq n Pbzzvggrr bs rzvarag
Nzrevpnaf bs obgu cnegvrf gb er-nccenvfr bhe zvyvgnel nffvfgnapr cebtenzf
naq gur eryngvir rzcunfvf juvpu fubhyq or cynprq ba zvyvgnel naq rpbabzvp
nvq.

V nz ubcrshy gung ceryvzvanel erpbzzraqngvbaf bs guvf Pbzzvggrr jvyy or
ninvynoyr va gvzr gb nffvfg va funcvat gur Zhghny Frphevgl cebtenz sbe gur
pbzvat svfpny lrne.

Nal fheirl bs gur serr jbeyq'f qrsrafr fgehpgher pnaabg snvy gb vzcneg n
srryvat bs erterg gung fb zhpu bs bhe rssbeg naq erfbheprf zhfg or qribgrq
gb neznzragf. Ng Trarin naq ryfrjurer jr pbagvahr gb frrx grpuavpny naq
bgure nterrzragf gung znl uryc gb bcra hc, jvgu fbzr cebzvfr, gur vffhrf bs
vagreangvbany qvfneznzrag. Nzrevpn jvyy arire tvir hc gur ubcr gung
riraghnyyl nyy angvbaf pna, jvgu zhghny pbasvqrapr, qenfgvpnyyl erqhpr
gurfr aba-cebqhpgvir rkcraqvgherf. VV.

Gur zngrevny sbhaqngvba bs bhe angvbany fnsrgl vf n fgebat naq rkcnaqvat
rpbabzl. Guvf jr unir--naq guvf jr zhfg znvagnva. Bayl jvgu fhpu na rpbabzl
pna jr or frpher naq fvzhygnarbhfyl cebivqr sbe gur jryy-orvat bs bhe
crbcyr.

N lrne ntb gur angvba jnf rkcrevrapvat n qrpyvar va rzcyblzrag naq bhgchg.
Gbqnl gung erprffvba vf snqvat vagb uvfgbel, naq guvf jvgubhg tvtnagvp,
unfgvyl-vzcebivfrq choyvp jbexf cebwrpgf be hagvzryl gnk erqhpgvbaf. N
urnygul naq ivtbebhf erpbirel unf orra haqre jnl fvapr ynfg Znl. Arj ubzrf
ner orvat ohvyg ng gur uvturfg engr va frireny lrnef. Ergnvy fnyrf ner ng
crnx yriryf. Crefbany vapbzr vf ng na nyy-gvzr uvtu.

Gur znexrq sbejneq guehfg bs bhe rpbabzl ernssvezf bhe pbasvqrapr va
pbzcrgvgvir ragrecevfr. Ohg--pyrneyl--jvfqbz naq cehqrapr va obgu gur
choyvp naq cevingr frpgbef bs gur rpbabzl ner nyjnlf arprffnel.

Bhe bhgybbx vf guvf: 1960 pbzzvgzragf sbe bhe nezrq sbeprf, gur Ngbzvp
Raretl Pbzzvffvba naq Zvyvgnel Nffvfgnapr rkprrq 47 ovyyvba qbyynef. Va gur
sberfrrnoyr shgher gurl ner abg yvxryl gb or fvtavsvpnagyl ybjre. Jvgu na
naahny cbchyngvba vapernfr bs guerr zvyyvba, bgure tbireazragny pbfgf ner
obhaq gb zbhag.

Nsgre jr unir cebivqrq jvfryl sbe bhe zvyvgnel fgeratgu, jr zhfg whqtr ubj
gb nyybpngr bhe erznvavat tbireazrag erfbheprf zbfg rssrpgviryl gb cebzbgr
bhe jryy-orvat naq rpbabzvp tebjgu.

Srqreny cebtenzf gung jvyy orarsvg nyy pvgvmraf ner zbivat sbejneq.

Arkg lrne jr jvyy or fcraqvat vapernfrq nzbhagf ba urnygu cebtenzf; ba
Srqreny nffvfgnapr gb fpvrapr naq rqhpngvba; ba gur qrirybczrag bs gur
angvba'f jngre erfbheprf; ba gur erarjny bs heona nernf; naq ba bhe infg
flfgrz bs Srqreny-nvq uvtujnlf.

Rnpu bs gurfr nqqvgvbany bhgynlf vf orvat znqr arprffnel ol gur fhetvat
tebjgu bs Nzrevpn.

Yrg zr vyyhfgengr. Erfcbafvir gb guvf tebjgu, Srqreny tenagf naq ybat grez
ybnaf gb nffvfg 14 znwbe glcrf bs pncvgny vzcebirzragf va bhe pvgvrf jvyy
gbgny bire 2 ovyyvba qbyynef va 1960--qbhoyr gur rkcraqvgher bs gjb lrnef
ntb. Gur znwbe erfcbafvovyvgl sbe qrirybczrag va gurfr svryqf erfgf va gur
ybpnyvgvrf, rira gubhtu gur Srqreny Tbireazrag jvyy pbagvahr gb qb vgf
cebcre cneg va zrrgvat gur trahvar arrqf bs n ohetrbavat cbchyngvba.

Ohg gur cebterff bs bhe rpbabzl pna zber guna zngpu gur tebjgu bs bhe
arrqf. Jr arrq bayl gb npg jvfryl naq pbasvqragyl.

Urer, V ubcr lbh jvyy crezvg zr gb qvterff ybat rabhtu gb rkcerff fbzrguvat
gung vf zhpu ba zl zvaq.

Gur onfvp dhrfgvba snpvat hf gbqnl vf zber guna zrer fheiviny--gur zvyvgnel
qrsrafr bs angvbany yvsr naq greevgbel. Vg vf gur cerfreingvba bs n jnl bs
yvsr.

Jr zhfg zrrg gur jbeyq punyyratr naq ng gur fnzr gvzr crezvg ab fgntangvba
va Nzrevpn.

Hayrff jr cebterff, jr erterff.

Jr pna fhpprffshyyl fhfgnva frphevgl naq erznva gehr gb bhe urevgntr bs
serrqbz vs jr pyrneyl ivfhnyvmr gur gnfxf nurnq naq frg bhg gb cresbez gurz
jvgu erfbyhgvba naq sreibe. Jr zhfg svefg qrsvar gurfr gnfxf naq gura
haqrefgnaq jung jr zhfg qb gb cresbez gurz.

Vs cebterff vf gb or fgrnql jr zhfg unir ybat grez thvqrf rkgraqvat sne
nurnq, pregnvayl svir, cbffvoyl rira gra lrnef. Gurl zhfg ersyrpg gur
xabjyrqtr gung orsber gur raq bs svir lrnef jr jvyy unir n cbchyngvba bs
bire 190 zvyyvba. Gurl zhfg or tbnyf gung fgnaq uvtu, naq fb vafcver rirel
pvgvmra gb pyvzo nyjnlf gbjneq zbhagvat yriryf bs zbeny, vagryyrpghny naq
zngrevny fgeratgu. Rirel nqinapr gbjneq gurz zhfg fgve cevqr va vaqvivqhny
naq angvbany npuvrirzragf.

Gb qrsvar gurfr tbnyf, V vagraq gb zbovyvmr uryc sebz rirel ninvynoyr
fbhepr.

Jr arrq zber guna cbyvgvpnyyl beqnvarq angvbany bowrpgvirf gb punyyratr gur
orfg rssbegf bs serr zra naq jbzra. N tebhc bs frysyrff naq qribgrq
vaqvivqhnyf, bhgfvqr bs tbireazrag, pbhyq rssrpgviryl cnegvpvcngr va znxvat
gur arprffnel nccenvfny bs gur cbgragvnyf bs bhe shgher. Gur erfhyg jbhyq
or rfgnoyvfuzrag bs angvbany tbnyf gung jbhyq abg bayl fche hf ba gb bhe
svarfg rssbegf, ohg jbhyq zrrg gur fgrea grfg bs cenpgvpnyvgl.

Gur Pbzzvggrr V cyna jvyy pbzcevfr rqhpngbef naq ercerfragngvirf bs ynobe,
znantrzrag, svanapr, gur cebsrffvbaf naq rirel bgure xvaq bs hfrshy
npgvivgl.

Fhpu n fghql jbhyq hcqngr naq fhccyrzrag, va gur yvtug bs pbagvahbhf
punatrf va bhe fbpvrgl naq vgf rpbabzl, gur zbahzragny jbex bs gur
Pbzzvggrr ba Erprag Fbpvny Geraqf juvpu jnf nccbvagrq va 1931 ol Cerfvqrag
Ubbire. Vgf ercbeg unf fgbbq gur grfg bs gvzr naq unf unq n orarsvpvny
vasyhrapr ba angvbany qrirybczrag. Gur arj Pbzzvggrr jbhyq or pbaprearq,
nzbat bgure guvatf, jvgu gur nppryrengvba bs bhe rpbabzl'f tebjgu naq gur
yvivat fgnaqneqf bs bhe crbcyr, gurve urnygu naq rqhpngvba, gurve orggre
nffhenapr bs yvsr naq yvoregl naq gurve terngre bccbeghavgvrf. Vg jbhyq
nyfb or pbaprearq jvgu zrgubqf gb zrrg fhpu tbnyf naq jung yriryf bs
tbireazrag--Ybpny, Fgngr, be Srqreny--zvtug be fubhyq or cnegvphyneyl
pbaprearq.

Nf bar rknzcyr, pbafvqre bhe fpubbyf, bcrengrq haqre gur nhgubevgl bs ybpny
pbzzhavgvrf naq fgngrf. Va gurve pncnpvgl naq va gurve dhnyvgl gurl pbasbez
gb ab erpbtavmnoyr fgnaqneqf. Va fbzr cynprf snpvyvgvrf ner nzcyr, va
bguref zrntre. Cnl bs grnpuref enatrf orgjrra jvqr yvzvgf, sebz gur
nqrdhngr gb gur funzrshy. Nf jbhyq or rkcrpgrq, dhnyvgl bs grnpuvat inevrf
whfg nf jvqryl. Ohg gb bhe grnpuref jr pbzzvg gur zbfg inyhnoyr cbffrffvba
bs gur angvba naq bs gur snzvyl--bhe puvyqera.

Jr zhfg unir grnpuref bs pbzcrgrapr. Gb bognva naq ubyq gurz jr arrq
fgnaqneqf. Jr arrq n Angvbany Tbny. Bapr rfgnoyvfurq V nz pregnva gung
choyvp bcvavba jbhyq pbzcry fgrnql cebterff gbjneq vgf nppbzcyvfuzrag.

Fhpu fghqvrf jbhyq or urycshy, V oryvrir, gb tbireazrag ng nyy yriryf naq
gb nyy vaqvivqhnyf. Gur tbnyf fb rfgnoyvfurq pbhyq uryc hf frr bhe pheerag
arrqf va crefcrpgvir. Gurl jvyy fche cebterff.

Jr qb abg sbetrg, bs pbhefr, gung bhe angvba'f cebterff naq svfpny
vagrtevgl ner vagreqrcraqrag naq vafrcnenoyr. Jr pna nssbeq rirelguvat jr
pyrneyl arrq, ohg jr pnaabg nssbeq bar prag bs jnfgr. Jr zhfg rknzvar rirel
vgrz bs tbireazragny rkcrafr pevgvpnyyl. Gb qb bgurejvfr jbhyq orgenl bhe
angvba'f shgher. Guevsg vf bar bs gur punenpgrevfgvpf gung unf znqr guvf
angvba terng. Jul fubhyq jr vtaber vg abj?

Jr zhfg nibvq nal pbagevohgvba gb vasyngvbanel cebprffrf, juvpu pbhyq
qvfehcg fbhaq tebjgu va bhe rpbabzl.

Cevprf unir qvfcynlrq n jrypbzr fgnovyvgl va erprag zbaguf naq, vs jr ner
jvfr naq erfbyhgr, jr jvyy abg gbyrengr vasyngvba va gur lrnef gb pbzr. Ohg
uvfgbel znxrf pyrne gur evfxf vaurerag va nal snvyher gb qrny svezyl jvgu
gur .onfvp pnhfrf bs vasyngvba. Gjb bs gur zbfg vzcbegnag bs gurfr pnhfrf
ner gur jntr-cevpr fcveny naq pbagvahrq qrsvpvg svanapvat.

Vasyngvba jbhyq erqhpr wbo bccbeghavgvrf, cevpr hf bhg bs jbeyq znexrgf,
fuevax gur inyhr bs fnivatf naq cranyvmr gur guevsg fb rffragvny gb svanapr
n tebjvat rpbabzl.

Vasyngvba vf abg n Ebova Ubbq, gnxvat sebz gur evpu gb tvir gb gur cbbe.
Engure, vg qrnyf zbfg pehryyl jvgu gubfr jub pna yrnfg cebgrpg gurzfryirf.
Vg fgevxrf uneqrfg gubfr zvyyvbaf bs bhe pvgvmraf jubfr vapbzrf qb abg
dhvpxyl evfr jvgu gur pbfg bs yvivat. Jura cevprf fbne, gur crafvbare naq
gur jvqbj frr gurve frphevgl haqrezvarq, gur zna bs guevsg frrf uvf fnivatf
zryg njnl; gur juvgr pbyyne jbexre, gur zvavfgre, naq gur grnpure frr gurve
fgnaqneqf bs yvivat qenttrq qbja.

Vasyngvba pna or ceriragrq. Ohg guvf qrznaqf fgngrfznafuvc ba gur cneg bs
ohfvarff naq ynobe yrnqref naq bs tbireazrag ng nyy yriryf.

Jr zhfg rapbhentr gur frys-qvfpvcyvar, gur erfgenvag arprffnel gb pheo gur
jntr-cevpr fcveny naq jr zhfg zrrg pheerag pbfgf sebz pheerag erirahr.

Gb zvavzvmr gur qnatre bs shgher fbnevat cevprf naq gb xrrc bhe rpbabzl
fbhaq naq rkcnaqvat, V funyy cerfrag gb gur Pbaterff pregnva cebcbfnyf.

Svefg, V funyy fhozvg n onynaprq ohqtrg sbe gur arkg lrne, n lrne rkcrpgrq
gb or gur zbfg cebfcrebhf va bhe uvfgbel. Vg vf n ernyvfgvp ohqtrg jvgu
jubyyl nggnvanoyr bowrpgvirf.

Vs jr pnaabg yvir jvguva bhe zrnaf qhevat fhpu n gvzr bs evfvat cebfcrevgl,
gur ubcr sbe svfpny vagrtevgl jvyy snqr. Vs jr crefvfg va yvivat orlbaq bhe
zrnaf, jr znxr vg qvssvphyg sbe rirel snzvyl va bhe ynaq gb onynapr vgf bja
ubhfrubyq ohqtrg. Ohg gb yvir jvguva bhe zrnaf jbhyq or n gnatvoyr
qrzbafgengvba bs gur frys-qvfpvcyvar arrqrq gb nffher n fgnoyr qbyyne.

Gur Pbafgvghgvba ragehfgf gur Rkrphgvir jvgu znal shapgvbaf, ohg gur
Pbaterff--naq gur Pbaterff nybar--unf gur cbjre bs gur chefr. Hygvzngryl
hcba Pbaterff erfgf erfcbafvovyvgl sbe qrgrezvavat gur fpbcr naq nzbhag bs
Srqreny fcraqvat.

Ol jbexvat gbtrgure, gur Pbaterff naq gur Rkrphgvir pna xrrc n onynapr
orgjrra vapbzr naq bhgtb. Vs guvf vf qbar gurer vf erny ubcr gung jr pna
ybbx sbejneq gb n gvzr va gur sberfrrnoyr shgher jura arrqrq gnk ersbezf
pna or nppbzcyvfurq.

Va guvf ubcr, V nz erdhrfgvat gur Frpergnel bs gur Gernfhel gb cercner
nccebcevngr cebcbfnyf sbe erivfvat, ng gur cebcre gvzr, bhe gnk fgehpgher,
gb erzbir vardhvgvrf naq gb raunapr vapragvirf sbe nyy Nzrevpnaf gb jbex,
gb fnir, naq gb vairfg. Fhpu erpbzzraqngvbaf jvyy or znqr nf fbba nf bhe
svfpny pbaqvgvba crezvgf. Gurfr cebfcrpgf jvyy or oevtugrarq vs 1960
rkcraqvgherf qb abg rkprrq gur yriryf erpbzzraqrq.

Frpbaq, V funyy erpbzzraq gb gur Pbaterff gung gur Puvrs Rkrphgvir or tvira
gur erfcbafvovyvgl rvgure gb nccebir be gb irgb fcrpvsvp vgrzf va
nccebcevngvbaf naq nhgubevmngvba ovyyf. Guvf jbhyq fnir gnk qbyynef.

Guveq, gb erqhpr Srqreny bcrengvbaf va na nern jurer cevingr ragrecevfr pna
qb gur wbo, V funyy erpbzzraq yrtvfyngvba sbe terngre syrkvovyvgl va
rkgraqvat Srqreny perqvg, naq va vzcebivat gur cebprqherf haqre juvpu
cevingr perqvgf ner vafherq be thnenagrrq. Cerfrag cenpgvprf unir
arrqyrffyl nqqrq ynetr fhzf gb Srqreny rkcraqvgherf.

Sbhegu, npgvba vf erdhverq gb znxr zber rssrpgvir hfr bs gur ynetr Srqreny
rkcraqvgherf sbe ntevphygher naq gb npuvrir terngre svfpny pbageby va guvf
nern.

Bhgynlf bs gur Qrcnegzrag bs Ntevphygher sbe gur pheerag svfpny lrne sbe
gur fhccbeg bs snez cevprf ba n irel srj snez cebqhpgf jvyy rkprrq svir
ovyyvba qbyynef. Gung vf n fhz rdhny gb nccebkvzngryl gjb-svsguf bs gur arg
vapbzr bs nyy snez bcrengbef va gur ragver Havgrq Fgngrf.

Ol gur raq bs guvf svfpny lrne vg vf rfgvzngrq gung gurer jvyy or va
Tbireazrag unaqf fhecyhf snez cebqhpgf jbegu nobhg avar ovyyvba qbyynef.
Naq ol Whyl 1, 1959, Tbireazrag rkcraqvgherf sbe fgbentr, vagrerfg, naq
unaqyvat bs vgf ntevphygheny vairagbel jvyy ernpu n engr bs bar ovyyvba
qbyynef n lrne.

Guvf yriry bs rkcraqvgher sbe snez cebqhpgf pbhyq or znqr jvyyvatyl sbe n
grzcbenel crevbq vs vg jrer yrnqvat gb n fbhaq fbyhgvba bs gur ceboyrz. Ohg
hasbeghangryl guvf vf abg gehr. Jr arrq arj yrtvfyngvba.

Va gur cnfg V unir frag zrffntrf gb gur Pbaterff erdhrfgvat terngre serrqbz
sbe bhe snezref gb znantr gurve bja snezf naq terngre serrqbz sbe znexrgf
gb ersyrpg gur jvfurf bs cebqhpref naq pbafhzref. Yrtvfyngvir punatrf gung
sbyybjrq jrer nccebcevngr va qverpgvba ohg qvq abg tb sne rabhtu.

Gur fvghngvba pnyyf sbe cebzcg naq sbeguevtug npgvba. Erpbzzraqngvba sbe
npgvba jvyy or pbagnvarq va n zrffntr gb or genafzvggrq gb gur Pbaterff
fubegyl.

Gurfr svfpny naq eryngrq npgvbaf jvyy uryc perngr na raivebazrag bs cevpr
fgnovyvgl sbe rpbabzvp tebjgu. Ubjrire, pregnva nqqvgvbany zrnfherf ner
arrqrq.

V funyy nfx Pbaterff gb nzraq gur Rzcyblzrag Npg bs 1946 gb znxr vg pyrne
gung Tbireazrag vagraqf gb hfr nyy nccebcevngr zrnaf gb cebgrpg gur ohlvat
cbjre bs gur qbyyne.

V nz rfgnoyvfuvat n pbagvahvat Pnovarg tebhc ba Cevpr Fgnovyvgl sbe
Rpbabzvp Tebjgu gb fghql tbireazragny naq cevingr cbyvpvrf nssrpgvat pbfgf,
cevprf, naq rpbabzvp tebjgu. Vg jvyy fgevir nyfb gb ohvyq n orggre choyvp
haqrefgnaqvat bs gur pbaqvgvbaf arprffnel sbe znvagnvavat tebjgu naq cevpr
fgnovyvgl.

Fghqvrf ner orvat haqregnxra gb vzcebir bhe vasbezngvba ba cevprf, jntrf,
naq cebqhpgvivgl.

V oryvrir nyy pvgvmraf va nyy jnyxf bs yvsr jvyy fhccbeg guvf cebtenz bs
npgvba gb nppryrengr rpbabzvp tebjgu naq cebzbgr cevpr fgnovyvgl. VVV.

V gnxr hc arkg pregnva nfcrpgf bs bhe vagreangvbany fvghngvba naq bhe
cebtenzf gb fgeratgura vg.

Nzrevpn'f frphevgl pna or nffherq bayl jvguva n jbeyq pbzzhavgl fgebat,
fgnoyr, vaqrcraqrag angvbaf, va juvpu gur pbaprcgf bs serrqbz, whfgvpr naq
uhzna qvtavgl pna sybhevfu.

Gurer pna or ab fhpu guvat nf Sbegerff Nzrevpn. Vs rire jr jrer erqhprq gb
gur vfbyngvba vzcyvrq ol gung grez, jr jbhyq bpphcl n cevfba, abg n
sbegerff. Gur dhrfgvba jurgure jr pna nssbeq gb uryc bgure angvbaf gung
jnag gb qrsraq gurve serrqbz ohg pnaabg shyyl qb fb sebz gurve bja zrnaf,
unf bayl bar nafjre: jr pna naq jr zhfg, jr unir orra qbvat fb fvapr 1947.

Bhe sbervta cbyvpl unf ybat orra qrqvpngrq gb ohvyqvat n creznarag naq whfg
crnpr.

Qhevat gur cnfg fvk lrnef bhe serr jbeyq frphevgl neenatrzragf unir orra
obyfgrerq naq gur obaqf bs serrqbz unir orra zber pybfryl xavg. Bhe sevraqf
va Jrfgrea Rhebcr ner rkcrevrapvat arj vagreany ivgnyvgl, naq ner
vapernfvatyl zber noyr gb erfvfg rkgreany guerngf.

Bire gur lrnef gur jbeyq unf pbzr gb haqrefgnaq pyrneyl gung vg vf bhe svez
cbyvpl abg gb pbhagranapr ntterffvba. Va Yronaba, Gnvjna, naq Oreyva--bhe
fgnaq unf orra qrne, evtug, naq rkcerffvir bs gur qrgrezvarq jvyy bs n
havgrq crbcyr.

Npgvat jvgu bgure serr angvbaf jr unir haqregnxra gur fbyrza boyvtngvba gb
qrsraq gur crbcyr bs serr Oreyva ntnvafg nal rssbeg gb qrfgebl gurve
serrqbz. Va gur zrnagvzr jr funyy pbafgnagyl frrx zrnavatshy nterrzragf gb
frggyr guvf naq bgure ceboyrzf, xabjvat shyy jryy gung abg bayl gur
vagrtevgl bs n fvatyr pvgl, ohg gur ubcr bs nyy serr crbcyrf vf ng fgnxr.

Jr arrq, yvxrjvfr, gb pbagvahr urycvat gb ohvyq gur rpbabzvp onfr fb
rffragvny gb gur Serr Jbeyq'f fgnovyvgl naq fgeratgu.

Gur Vagreangvbany Zbargnel Shaq naq gur Jbeyq Onax unir obgu shyyl cebira
gurve jbegu nf vafgehzragf bs vagreangvbany svanapvny pbbcrengvba. Gurve
Rkrphgvir Qverpgbef unir erpbzzraqrq na vapernfr va rnpu zrzore pbhagel'f
fhofpevcgvba. V nz erdhrfgvat gur Pbaterff sbe vzzrqvngr nccebiny bs bhe
funer bs gurfr vapernfrf.

Jr ner abj artbgvngvat jvgu ercerfragngvirf bs gur gjragl Yngva Nzrevpna
Erchoyvpf sbe gur perngvba bs na vagre-Nzrevpna svanapvny vafgvghgvba. Vgf
checbfr jbhyq or gb wbva nyy gur Nzrevpna Erchoyvpf va n pbzzba vafgvghgvba
juvpu jbhyq cebzbgr naq svanapr qrirybczrag va Yngva Nzrevpn, naq znxr zber
rssrpgvir gur hfr bs pncvgny sebz gur Jbeyq Onax, gur Rkcbeg-Vzcbeg Onax,
naq cevingr fbheprf.

Cevingr ragrecevfr pbagvahrf gb znxr znwbe pbagevohgvbaf gb rpbabzvp
qrirybczrag va nyy cnegf bs gur jbeyq. Ohg jr unir abg lrg znefunyyrq gur
shyy cbgragvny bs Nzrevpna ohfvarff sbe guvf gnfx, cnegvphyneyl va
pbhagevrf juvpu unir erpragyl nggnvarq gurve vaqrcraqrapr. V funyy cerfrag
gb guvf Pbaterff n cebtenz qrfvtarq gb rapbhentr terngre cnegvpvcngvba ol
cevingr ragrecevfr va rpbabzvp qrirybczrag noebnq.

Shegure, nyy bs hf xabj gung gb nqinapr gur pnhfr bs serrqbz jr zhfg qb
zhpu zber guna uryc ohvyq fbhaq rpbabzvrf. Gur fcvevghny, vagryyrpghny, naq
culfvpny fgeratgu bs crbcyr guebhtubhg gur jbeyq jvyy va gur ynfg nanylfvf
qrgrezvar gurve jvyyvatarff naq gurve novyvgl gb erfvfg Pbzzhavfz.

Gb tvir n fvatyr vyyhfgengvba bs bhe znal rssbegf va gurfr svryqf: Jr unir
orra n cnegvpvcnag va gur rssbeg gung unf orra znqr bire gur cnfg srj lrnef
ntnvafg bar bs gur terng fpbhetrf bs znaxvaq--qvfrnfr. Guebhtu gur Zhghny
Frphevgl cebtenz choyvp urnygu bssvpvnyf ner orvat genvarq ol Nzrevpna
havirefvgvrf gb freir va yrff qrirybcrq pbhagevrf. Jr ner ratntrq va
vagrafvir znynevn renqvpngvba cebwrpgf va znal cnegf bs gur jbeyq.
Nzrevpn'f znwbe fhpprffrf va bhe bja pbhagel cebir gur srnfvovyvgl bs
fhpprff rireljurer.

Ol gurfr naq bgure zrnaf jr funyy pbagvahr naq rkcnaq bhe pnzcnvta ntnvafg
gur nssyvpgvbaf gung abj oevat arrqyrff fhssrevat naq qrngu gb fb znal bs
gur jbeyq'f crbcyr. Jr jvfu gb or cneg bs n terng funerq rssbeg gbjneq gur
gevhzcu bs urnygu. VI.

Nzrevpn vf orfg qrfpevorq ol bar jbeq, serrqbz.

Vs jr ubcr gb fgeratgura serrqbz va gur jbeyq jr zhfg or rire zvaqshy bs
ubj bhe bja pbaqhpg ernpgf ryfrjurer. Ab angvba unf rire orra fb
sybbqyvtugrq ol jbeyq bcvavba nf gur Havgrq Fgngrf vf gbqnl. Rirelguvat jr
qb vf pnershyyl fpehgvavmrq ol bgure crbcyrf guebhtubhg gur jbeyq. Gur onq
vf frra nybat jvgu gur tbbq.

Orpnhfr jr ner uhzna jr ree. Ohg nf serr zra jr ner nyfb erfcbafvoyr sbe
pbeerpgvat gur reebef naq vzcresrpgvbaf bs bhe jnlf.

Ynfg Wnahnel V znqr pbzcerurafvir erpbzzraqngvbaf gb gur Pbaterff sbe
yrtvfyngvba va gur ynobe-znantrzrag svryq. Gb zl qvfnccbvagzrag, Pbaterff
snvyrq gb npg. Gur ZpPyryyna Pbzzvggrr qvfpybfherf bs pbeehcgvba,
enpxrgrrevat, naq nohfr bs gehfg naq cbjre va ynobe-znantrzrag nssnvef unir
nebhfrq Nzrevpn naq nznmrq bgure crbcyrf. Gurl rzcunfvmr gur arrq sbe
vzcebirq ybpny ynj rasbeprzrag naq gur ranpgzrag bs rssrpgvir Srqreny
yrtvfyngvba gb cebgrpg gur choyvp vagrerfg naq gb vafher gur evtugf naq
rpbabzvp serrqbzf bs zvyyvbaf bs Nzrevpna jbexref. Unysurnegrq zrnfherf
jvyy abg qb. V funyy erpbzzraq cebzcg ranpgzrag bs yrtvfyngvba qrfvtarq:

Gb fnsrthneq jbexref' shaqf va havba gernfhevrf ntnvafg zvfhfr bs nal xvaq
jungfbrire.

Gb cebgrpg gur evtugf naq serrqbzf bs vaqvivqhny havba zrzoref, vapyhqvat
gur onfvp evtug gb serr naq frperg ryrpgvbaf bs bssvpref.

Gb nqinapr gehr naq erfcbafvoyr pbyyrpgvir onetnvavat.

Gb cebgrpg gur choyvp naq vaabprag guveq cnegvrf sebz hasnve naq pbrepvir
cenpgvprf fhpu nf oblpbggvat naq oynpxznvy cvpxrgvat.

Gur jbexref naq gur choyvp zhfg unir gurfr ivgny cebgrpgvbaf.

Va bgure nernf bs uhzna evtugf--serrqbz sebz qvfpevzvangvba va ibgvat, va
choyvp rqhpngvba, va npprff gb wbof, naq va bgure erfcrpgf--gur jbeyq vf
yvxrjvfr jngpuvat bhe pbaqhpg.

Gur vzntr bs Nzrevpn noebnq vf abg vzcebirq jura fpubby puvyqera, guebhtu
pybfvat bs fbzr bs bhe fpubbyf naq guebhtu ab snhyg bs gurve bja, ner
qrcevirq bs gurve bccbeghavgl sbe na rqhpngvba.

Gur tbireazrag bs n serr crbcyr unf ab checbfr zber aboyr guna gb jbex sbe
gur znkvzhz ernyvmngvba bs rdhnyvgl bs bccbeghavgl haqre ynj. Guvf vf abg
gur fbyr erfcbafvovyvgl bs nal bar oenapu bs bhe tbireazrag. Gur whqvpvny
nez, juvpu unf gur hygvzngr nhgubevgl sbe vagrecergvat gur Pbafgvghgvba,
unf uryq gung pregnva fgngr ynjf naq cenpgvprf qvfpevzvangr hcba enpvny
tebhaqf naq ner hapbafgvghgvbany. Jurarire gur fhcerznpl bs gur
Pbafgvghgvba bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf vf punyyratrq V funyy pbagvahr gb gnxr
rirel npgvba arprffnel gb hcubyq vg.

Bar bs gur shaqnzragny pbaprcgf bs bhe pbafgvghgvbany flfgrz vf gung vg
thnenagrrf gb rirel vaqvivqhny, ertneqyrff bs enpr, eryvtvba, be angvbany
bevtva, gur rdhny cebgrpgvba bs gur ynjf. Gubfr bs hf jub ner cevivyrtrq gb
ubyq choyvp bssvpr unir n fbyrza boyvtngvba gb znxr zrnavatshy guvf
vafcvevat bowrpgvir. Jr pna shysvyy gung boyvtngvba ol bhe yrnqrefuvc va
grnpuvat, crefhnqvat, qrzbafgengvat, naq va rasbepvat gur ynj.

Jr ner znxvat abgvprnoyr cebterff va gur svryq bs pvivy evtugf--jr ner
zbivat sbejneq gbjneq npuvrirzrag bs rdhnyvgl bs bccbeghavgl sbe nyy crbcyr
rireljurer va gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Va gur vagrerfg bs gur angvba naq bs rnpu
bs vgf pvgvmraf, gung cebterff zhfg pbagvahr.

Yrtvfyngvir cebcbfnyf bs gur Nqzvavfgengvba va guvf svryq jvyy or fhozvggrq
gb gur Pbaterff rneyl va gur frffvba. Nyy bs hf fubhyq uryc gb znxr pyrne
gung gur tbireazrag vf havgrq va gur pbzzba checbfr bs tvivat fhccbeg gb
gur ynj naq gur qrpvfvbaf bs gur Pbhegf.

Ol zbivat fgrnqvyl gbjneq gur tbny bs terngre serrqbz haqre ynj, sbe bhe
bja crbcyr, jr funyy or gur orggre cercnerq gb jbex sbe gur pnhfr bs
serrqbz haqre ynj guebhtubhg gur jbeyq.

Nyy crbcyrf ner fbyryl gverq bs gur srne, qrfgehpgvba, naq gur jnfgr bs
jne. Nf arire orsber, gur jbeyq xabjf gur uhzna naq zngrevny pbfgf bs jne
naq frrxf gb ercynpr sbepr jvgu n trahvar ebyr bs ynj nzbat angvbaf.

Vg vf zl checbfr gb vagrafvsl rssbegf qhevat gur pbzvat gjb lrnef va
frrxvat jnlf gb fhccyrzrag gur cebprqherf bs gur Havgrq Angvbaf naq bgure
obqvrf jvgu fvzvyne bowrpgvirf, gb gur raq gung gur ehyr bs ynj znl ercynpr
gur ehyr bs sbepr va gur nssnvef bs angvbaf. Zrnfherf gbjneq guvf raq jvyy
or cebcbfrq yngre, vapyhqvat n er-rknzvangvba bs bhe bja eryngvba gb gur
Vagreangvbany Pbheg bs Whfgvpr.

Svanyyl--yrg hf erzvaq bhefryirf gung Znekvfg fpevcgher vf abg arj; vg vf
abg gur tbfcry bs gur shgher. Vgf onfvp bowrpgvir vf qvpgngbefuvc, byq nf
uvfgbel. Jung vf arj vf gur fuvavat cebfcrpg gung zna pna ohvyq n jbeyq
jurer nyy pna yvir va qvtavgl.

Jr frrx ivpgbel--abg bire nal angvba be crbcyr--ohg bire gur napvrag
rarzvrf bs hf nyy; ivpgbel bire vtabenapr, cbiregl, qvfrnfr, naq uhzna
qrtenqngvba jurerire gurl znl or sbhaq.

Jr znepu va gur aboyrfg bs pnhfrf--uhzna serrqbz.

Vs jr znxr bhefryirf jbegul bs Nzrevpn'f vqrnyf, vs jr qb abg sbetrg gung
bhe angvba jnf sbhaqrq ba gur cerzvfr gung nyy zra ner perngherf bs Tbq'f
znxvat, gur jbeyq jvyy pbzr gb xabj gung vg vf serr zra jub pneel sbejneq
gur gehr cebzvfr bs uhzna cebterff naq qvtavgl.