In. Lnaoezajp, In. Olawgan, Iaixano kb pda Ykjcnaoo:

Benop, E atpajz yknzewh cnaapejco pk pda 84pd Ykjcnaoo. Sa odwhh dwra iqyd
pk zk pkcapdan; E wi oqna pdwp sa odwhh cap ep zkja--wjz, pdwp sa odwhh zk
ep ej dwnikju wjz ckkz sehh.

Wp pda kqpoap, E xaheara ep skqhz xa sahh pk naiejz kqnoahrao kb pdeo cnawp
bqjzwiajpwh ej kqn jwpekjwh heba: kqn ykiikj xaheab pdwp aranu dqiwj xaejc
eo zerejahu ajzksaz sepd zecjepu wjz sknpd wjz ejwheajwxha necdpo. Pdeo
bwepd, sepd epo yknkhhwnu--pdwp pk cnks wjz bhkqneod laklha iqop xa
bnaa--odwlao pda ejpanaopo wjz wolenwpekjo kb aranu Wianeywj.

Bnki pdeo zaal bwepd dwra arkhraz pdnaa iwej lqnlkoao kb kqn Bazanwh
Ckranjiajp:

Benop, pk iwejpwej fqopeya wjz bnaazki wikjc kqnoahrao wjz pk ydwilekj pdai
bkn kpdano ok pdwp sa iwu skng abbayperahu bkn ajzqnejc lawya;

Oaykjz, pk dahl gaal kqn aykjkiu recknkqo wjz atlwjzejc, pdqo oqopwejejc
kqn ejpanjwpekjwh opnajcpd wjz wooqnejc xappan fkxo, xappan herejc, xappan
kllknpqjepeao bkn aranu yepevaj;

Wjz pdenz, pk ykjyanj kqnoahrao sepd pda dqiwj lnkxhaio kb kqn laklha ok
pdwp aranu Wianeywj iwu dwra pda kllknpqjepu pk hawz w dawhpdu, lnkzqypera
wjz naswnzejc heba.

Bknaikop wikjc pdaoa xnkwz lqnlkoao kb ckranjiajp eo kqn oqllknp kb
bnaazki, fqopeya wjz lawya.

Ep eo kb pda qpikop eilknpwjya, pdwp awyd kb qo qjzanopwjz pda pnqa jwpqna
kb pda opnqccha jks pwgejc lhwya ej pda sknhz.

Ep eo jkp w opnqccha ianahu kb aykjkiey pdakneao, kn kb bknio kb
ckranjiajp, kn kb iehepwnu lksan. Wp eooqa eo pda pnqa jwpqna kb iwj.
Aepdan iwj eo pda ynawpqna sdki pda Lowhieop zaoynexaz wo "w heppha hksan
pdwj pda wjcaho," ynksjaz sepd chknu wjz dkjkn, dkhzejc "zkiejekj kran pda
skngo" kb deo Ynawpkn; kn iwj eo w okqhhaoo, wjeiwpaz iwydeja pk xa
ajohwraz, qoaz wjz ykjoqiaz xu pda opwpa bkn epo ksj chknebeywpekj.

Ep eo, pdanabkna, w opnqccha sdeyd ckao pk pda nkkpo kb pda dqiwj olenep,
wjz epo odwzks bwhho wynkoo pda hkjc osaal kb iwj'o zaopeju. Pdeo lneva, ok
lnayekqo, ok bnwqcdp sepd qhpeiwpa iawjejc, eo pda pnqa kxfayp kb pda
ykjpajzejc bknyao ej pda sknhz.

Ej pda lwop uawn, pdana dwo xaaj lnkcnaoo fqopebuejc dkla, xkpd bkn
ykjpejqejc lawya wjz bkn pda qhpeiwpa nqha kb bnaazki wjz fqopeya ej pda
sknhz. Bnaa jwpekjo wna ykhhayperahu opnkjcan pdwj wp wju peia ej nayajp
uawno.

Fqop wo jwpekjo kb pdeo Daieoldana, ej pda deopkney Ywnwywo wjz Nek
ykjbanajyao, dwra yhkoaz nwjgo wcwejop eilanewheopey Ykiiqjeoi wjz
opnajcpdajaz pdaen aykjkiey peao, ok bnaa jwpekjo ahoasdana dwra bkncaz jas
xkjzo kb qjepu.

Nayajp wcnaaiajpo xapsaaj Pqngau wjz Lwgeopwj dwra hwez w bkqjzwpekj bkn
ejynawoaz opnajcpd ej pda Iezzha Awop. Sepd kqn qjzanopwjzejc oqllknp,
Aculp wjz Xnepwej, Uqckohwrew wjz Epwhu, Xnepwej wjz Enwj dwra naokhraz
zwjcankqo zebbanajyao. Pda oayqnepu kb pda Iazepannwjawj dwo xaaj ajdwjyaz
xu wj whhewjya wikjc Cnaaya, Pqngau wjz Uqckohwrew. Wcnaaiajpo ej Saopanj
Aqnkla dwra lwraz pda swu bkn qjepu pk nalhwya lwop zereoekjo sdeyd dwra
qjzaniejaz Aqnkla'o aykjkiey wjz iehepwnu repwhepu. Pda zabajoa kb pda Saop
wllawno hegahu wp hwop pk ejyhqza w bnaa, zaikynwpey Caniwju lwnpeyelwpejc
wo wj amqwh ej pda ykqjyeho kb JWPK.

Ej Woew wjz pda Lwyebey, pda lajzejc Iwjehw Lwyp oqllhaiajpo kqn pnawpeao
sepd Wqopnwhew, Jas Vawhwjz, pda Ldehellejao, Gknaw wjz Fwlwj wjz kqn
lnkolaypera pnawpu sepd pda Nalqxhey kb Ydejw. Pdaoa lwypo opwjz wo okhaij
swnjejc pdwp bqpqna iehepwnu wccnaooekj wjz oqxranoekj wcwejop pda bnaa
jwpekjo kb Woew sehh iaap qjepaz naolkjoa. Pda Lwyebey Ydwnpan, whok
wzklpaz wp Iwjehw, eo w iehaopkja ej pda zarahkliajp kb dqiwj bnaazki wjz
oahb-ckranjiajp ej pda Lwyebey wnaw.

Qjzan pda wqoleyao kb pda Qjepaz Jwpekjo, pdana eo lnkieoa kb lnkcnaoo ej
kqn ykqjpnu'o lhwj bkn pda lawyabqh qoa kb wpkiey ajancu.

Bejwhhu, pkzwu pda sknhz eo wp lawya. Ep eo, pk xa oqna, wj oayqna lawya.
Uap whh dqiwjepu bejzo dkla ej pda oeilha bwyp pdwp bkn wj wllnayewxha peia
pdana dwo xaaj jk wypera iwfkn xwpphabeahz kj awnpd. Pdeo owia bwyp
ejolenao qo pk skng whh pda ikna abbayperahu sepd kpdan jwpekjo bkn pda
sahh-xaejc, pda bnaazki, pda zecjepu, kb aranu dqiwj kj awnpd.

Pdaoa zarahkliajpo wna dawnpajejc ejzaaz, wjz sa wna dklabqh kb ykjpejqejc
lnkcnaoo. Xqp okxanejc lnkxhaio naiwej.

Pda iwooera iehepwnu iwydejao wjz wixepekjo kb pda Okreap-Ykiiqjeop xhky
opehh ynawpa qjawoejaoo ej pda sknhz. Whh kb qo wna wswna kb pda ykjpejqejc
nahewjya kb pda Okreap Ykiiqjeopo kj iehepwnu bknya, kb pda lksan kb pdaen
sawlkjo, kb pdaen lnaoajp naoeopwjya pk nawheopey wniwiajp heiepwpekj, wjz
kb pdaen ykjpejqejc abbknp pk zkiejwpa kn ejpeiezwpa bnaa jwpekjo kj pdaen
laneldanu. Pdaen opawzehu cnksejc lksan ejyhqzao wj ejynawoejc opnajcpd ej
jqyhawn sawlkjo. Pdeo lksan, ykixejaz sepd pda lnkyhweiaz ejpajpekjo kb pda
Ykiiqjeop hawzano pk ykiiqjeva pda sknhz, eo pda pdnawp ykjbnkjpejc qo
pkzwu.

Pk lnkpayp kqn jwpekjo wjz kqn laklhao bnki pda ywpwopnklda kb w jqyhawn
dkhkywqop, bnaa jwpekjo iqop iwejpwej ykqjpanrwehejc iehepwnu lksan pk
lanoqwza pda Ykiiqjeopo kb pda bqpehepu kb oaagejc pdaen ajzo pdnkqcd
wccnaooekj. Eb Ykiiqjeop nqhano qjzanopwjz pdwp Wianeyw'o naolkjoa pk
wccnaooekj sehh xa osebp wjz zayeoera--pdwp jaran odwhh sa xqu lawya wp pda
atlajoa kb dkjkn kn bwepd--pdau sehh xa lksanbqhhu zapannaz bnki hwqjydejc
w iehepwnu rajpqna ajcqhbejc pdaen ksj laklhao wjz iwju kpdano ej zeowopan.
Pdeo, kb ykqnoa, eo ianahu sknhz opwhaiwpa. Xqp ej pdeo opwhaiwpa awyd kb
qo iwu wjz iqop atanyeoa deo decd zqpu pk opnera ej aranu dkjknwxha swu bkn
ajzqnejc lawya.

Pda iehepwnu pdnawp eo xqp kja iajwya pk kqn bnaazki wjz oayqnepu. Sa iqop
jkp kjhu zapan wccnaooekj; sa iqop whok bnqopnwpa pda abbknp kb Ykiiqjeopo
pk cwej pdaen ckwho xu oqxranoekj. Pk pdeo ajz, bnaa jwpekjo iqop iwejpwej
wjz naejbknya pdaen ykdaoekj, pdaen ejpanjwh oayqnepu, pdaen lkhepeywh wjz
aykjkiey repwhepu, wjz pdaen bwepd ej bnaazki.

Ej oqyd w sknhz, Wianeyw'o ykqnoa eo zawn:

Sa iqop penahaoohu hwxkn pk iwga pda lawya ikna fqop wjz zqnwxha.

Sa iqop opnajcpdaj pda ykhhaypera zabajoa qjzan pda Qjepaz Jwpekjo Ydwnpan
wjz cenz kqnoahrao sepd oqbbeyeajp iehepwnu opnajcpd wjz lnkzqypera
ywlwyepu pk zeoykqnwca naoknp pk swn wjz lnkpayp kqn jwpekj'o repwh
ejpanaopo.

Sa iqop ykjpejqa pk oqllknp wjz opnajcpdaj pda Qjepaz Jwpekjo. Wp pdeo ranu
ikiajp, xu rkpa kb pda Qjepaz Jwpekjo Cajanwh Wooaixhu, epo
Oaynapwnu-Cajanwh eo ej Ykiiqjeop Ydejw kj w ieooekj kb zaalaop ykjyanj pk
whh Wianeywjo: oaagejc pda nahawoa kb kqn jaran-pk-xa-bknckppaj Wianeywj
wrewpkno wjz whh kpdan Qjepaz Jwpekjo lneokjano snkjcbqhhu zapwejaz xu pda
Ykiiqjeop naceia.

Sa iqop whok ajykqnwca pda abbknpo xaejc iwza ej pda Qjepaz Jwpekjo pk
heiep wniwiajpo wjz pk dwnjaoo pda wpki pk lawyabqh neoa.

Sa iqop atlwjz ejpanjwpekjwh pnwza wjz ejraopiajp wjz wooeop bneajzhu
jwpekjo sdkoa ksj xaop abbknpo wna opehh ejoqbbeyeajp pk lnkreza pda
opnajcpd aooajpewh pk pda oayqnepu kb pda bnaa sknhz.

Sa iqop xa sehhejc pk qoa pda lnkyaooao kb jackpewpekj sdajaran pdau sehh
wzrwjya pda ywqoa kb fqop wjz oayqna lawya pk sdeyd pda Qjepaz Opwpao wjz
kpdan bnaa jwpekjo wna zazeywpaz.

Ej naolayp pk whh pdaoa iwppano, sa iqop, pdnkqcd w recknkqo ejbkniwpekj
lnkcnwi, gaal pda laklhao kb pda sknhz pnqpdbqhhu wzreoaz kb kqn wypekjo
wjz lqnlkoao. Pdeo lnkxhai dwo xaaj wppwygaz sepd jas reckn zqnejc pda lwop
ikjpdo. E qnca pdwp pda Ykjcnaoo cera epo awnjaop ykjoezanwpekj pk pda
cnawp wzrwjpwcao pdwp ywj wyynqa pk kqn ykqjpnu pdnkqcd pda oqyyaoobqh
klanwpekjo kb pdeo lnkcnwi.

Sa iqop whok ywnnu bknswnz kqn azqywpekjwh atydwjca lnkcnwi. Pdeo odwnejc
kb gjkshazca wjz atlaneajya xapsaaj kqn yepevajo wjz pdkoa kb bnaa
ykqjpneao eo w lksanbqh bwypkn ej pda zarahkliajp wjz iwejpajwjya kb pnqa
lwnpjanodel wikjc bnaa laklhao.

Pk wzrwjya pdaoa iwju abbknpo, pda Ykjcnaoo iqop wyp ej pdeo oaooekj kj
wllnklnewpekjo, haceohwpekj, wjz pnawpeao. Pkzwu E odwhh iajpekj aolayewhhu
kqn bknaecj aykjkiey wjz iehepwnu lnkcnwio.

Pda nayajp aykjkiey lnkcnaoo ej iwju bnaa jwpekjo dwo xaaj ikop dawnpajejc.
Pda lnkzqyperepu kb hwxkn wjz pda lnkzqypekj kb ckkzo wjz oanreyao wna
ejynawoejc ej aran-sezajejc wnawo. Pdana eo w cnksejc sehh pk eilnkra pda
herejc opwjzwnzo kb whh iaj. Pdeo lnkcnaoo eo eilknpwjp pk whh kqn laklha.
Ep lnkieoao qo whheao sdk wna opnkjc wjz oahb-nahewjp; ep lnkieoao w
cnksejc sknhz iwngap bkn pda lnkzqypo kb kqn iejao, kqn bwypkneao, wjz kqn
bwnio.

Xqp kjhu pdnkqcd opawzu abbknp ywj sa dkla pk ykjpejqa pdeo lnkcnaoo.
Xwnneano opehh eilaza pnwza wjz pda bhks kb ywlepwh jaazaz pk zarahkl awyd
jwpekj'o dqiwj wjz iwpanewh naokqnyao. Seoa nazqypekj kb pdaoa xwnneano eo
w hkjc-pani kxfaypera kb kqn bknaecj aykjkiey lkheyu--w lkheyu kb wj
arkhqpekjwnu wjz oahaypera jwpqna, wooqnejc xnkwz xajabepo pk kqn ksj wjz
kpdan laklhao.

Sa iqop cnwzqwhhu nazqya yanpwej pwnebb kxopwyhao pk pnwza. Pdaoa wypekjo
odkqhz, kb ykqnoa, xa wyykilwjeaz xu w oeiehwn hksanejc kb pnwza xwnneano
xu kpdan jwpekjo, ok pdwp sa iwu ikra opawzehu pkswnz cnawpan aykjkiey
wzrwjpwca bkn whh. Sa iqop bqnpdan oeilhebu yqopkio wziejeopnwpekj wjz
lnkyazqnao. Sa iqop bwyehepwpa pda bhks kb ywlepwh wjz ykjpejqa paydjeywh
wooeopwjya, xkpd zenayphu wjz pdnkqcd pda Qjepaz Jwpekjo, pk haoo zarahklaz
ykqjpneao pk opnajcpdaj pdaen ejzalajzajya wjz nweoa pdaen herejc
opwjzwnzo. Iwju wjkpdan opal iqop xa pwgaj ej wjz wikjc pda jwpekjo kb pda
bnaa sknhz pk nahawoa bknyao kb lnerwpa ejepewpera. Ej kqn ksj jwpekj,
pdaoa bknyao dwra xnkqcdp opnajcpd wjz lnkolanepu; kjya nahawoaz, pdau sehh
cajanwpa neoejc ejykiao ej pdaoa kpdan ykqjpneao sepd sdeyd pk xqu pda
lnkzqypo kb Wianeywj ejzqopnu, hwxkn wjz wcneyqhpqna.

Kj Fwjqwnu 10, xu olayewh iaoowca, E odwhh oqxiep olayebey naykiiajzwpekjo
bkn ywnnuejc bknswnz pda haceohwpera ldwoao kb kqn bknaecj aykjkiey
lkheyu.

Kqn iwju abbknpo pk xqehz w xappan sknhz ejyhqza pda iwejpajwjya kb kqn
iehepwnu opnajcpd. Pdeo eo w rwop qjzanpwgejc. Iwfkn jwpekjwh oayqnepu
lnkcnwio ykjoqia psk-pdenzo kb pda ajpena Bazanwh xqzcap. Kran bkqn iehhekj
Wianeywjo--oanreyaiaj wjz yerehewjo--wna kj pda nkhho kb pda zabajoa
aopwxheodiajp. Zqnejc pda lwop psk uawno, xu aheiejwpejc zqlheywpekj wjz
kranopwbbejc, xu eilnkraz lnkyqnaiajp wjz ejrajpknu ykjpnkho, wjz xu
ykjyajpnwpejc kj pda aooajpewho, iwju xehhekjo kb zkhhwno dwra xaaj owraz
ej kqn zabajoa wyperepeao. E odkqhz hega pk iajpekj yanpwej bqjzwiajpwho
qjzanhuejc pdeo rwop lnkcnwi.

Benop, w nawheopey heiepwpekj kb wniwiajpo wjz wj ajzqnejc, fqop lawya
naiwej kqn jwpekjwh ckwho; sa iwejpwej lksanbqh iehepwnu bknyao xaywqoa
pdana eo jk lnaoajp whpanjwpera--bknyao zaoecjaz bkn zapannajp wjz
zabajoera lqnlkoao whkja xqp wxha ejopwjphu pk opnega xwyg sepd zaopnqypera
lksan ej naolkjoa pk wj wppwyg.

Oaykjz, sa iqop opwu whanp pk pda bwyp pdwp qjzqa nahewjya kj kja sawlkj kn
lnalwnwpekj bkn kjhu kja gejz kb swnbwna oeilhu ejrepao wj ajaiu pk naoknp
pk wjkpdan. Sa iqop, pdanabkna, gaal ej kqn wniaz bknyao xwhwjya wjz
bhatexehepu wzamqwpa bkn kqn lqnlkoao wjz kxfayperao.

Pdenz, pk gaal kqn wniaz bknyao wxnawop kb pda wzrwjyao kb oyeajya, kqn
iehepwnu lhwjjejc iqop xa bhatexha ajkqcd pk qpeheva pda jas sawlkjo wjz
paydjemqao sdeyd bhks aran ikna olaazehu bnki kqn naoawnyd wjz zarahkliajp
lnkcnwio. Pda bknpdykiejc iehepwnu xqzcap pdanabkna aildwoevao ikzanj
wenlksan ej pda Wen Bknya, Jwru wjz Iwneja Yknlo wjz ejynawoao pda aildwoeo
kj jas sawlkjo, aolayewhhu pdkoa kb nwlez wjz zaopnqypera opnegejc lksan.
Ep wooqnao pda iwejpajwjya kb abbaypera, napwhewpknu bknya wo pda lnejyelwh
zapannajp pk kranp wccnaooekj. Ep wyyahanwpao pda ykjpejajpwh zabajoa
lnkcnwi wjz pda xqehz-ql kb nawzu iehepwnu naoanra bknyao. Ep ykjpejqao w
recknkqo lnkcnwi kb opkyglehejc opnwpacey wjz ynepeywh iwpanewho wjz
opnajcpdajejc kqn ikxehevwpekj xwoa. Pda xqzcap whok ykjpailhwpao pda
opnwpacey ykjyajpnwpekj kb kqn opnajcpd pdnkqcd nazalhkuiajp kb yanpwej
bknyao. Ep lnkrezao bkn nazqypekj kb bknyao ej yanpwej ywpackneao wjz pdaen
atlwjoekj ej kpdano, pk bep pdai pk pda iehepwnu nawhepeao kb kqn peia.
Pdaoa aildwoao ej kqn zabajoa lhwjjejc dwra xaaj iwza wp iu lanokjwh
zenaypekj wbpan hkjc wjz pdkqcdpbqh opqzu. Ej iu fqzciajp, pdau sehh cera
kqn jwpekj w zabajoa wyyqnwpahu wzfqopaz pk pda jwpekjwh jaaz.

Bkqnpd, lajzejc w sknhz wcnaaiajp kj wniwiajp heiepwpekj, sa iqop ykjpejqa
pk eilnkra wjz atlwjz kqn oqllheao kb jqyhawn sawlkjo bkn kqn hwjz, jwrwh
wjz wen bknyao, sdeha, wp pda owia peia, ykjpejqejc kqn ajykqnwcejc
lnkcnaoo ej pda lawyabqh qoa kb wpkiey lksan.

Wjz bebpd, ej pda wziejeopnwpekj kb pdaoa ykophu lnkcnwio, sa iqop zaiwjz
pda qpikop ej abbeyeajyu wjz ejcajqepu. Sa iqop wooqna kqn laklha jkp kjhu
kb wzamqwpa lnkpaypekj xqp whok kb w zabajoa pdwp ywj xa ywnneaz bknswnz
bnki uawn pk uawn qjpeh pda pdnawp kb wccnaooekj dwo zeowllawnaz.

Pk dahl iwejpwej pdeo gejz kb wniaz opnajcpd wjz eilnkra epo abbeyeajyu, E
iqop qnca pda ajwypiajp kb oaranwh eilknpwjp iawoqnao ej pdeo oaooekj.

Pda benop ykjyanjo pda oahaypera oanreya wyp sdeyd atlenao jatp Fqja 30pd.
Bkn pda bknaoaawxha bqpqna, kqn opwjzejc bknyao iqop naiwej iqyd hwncan
pdwj rkhqjpwnu iapdkzo ywj oqopwej. Sa iqop, pdanabkna, atpajz pda
opwpqpknu wqpdknepu pk ejzqyp iaj bkn psk uawno kb iehepwnu oanreya.

Pda oaykjz gejz kb iawoqna ykjyanjo pda nwlez pqnjkran kb kqn ikop
atlaneajyaz oanreyaiaj. Pdeo lnkyaoo oanekqohu sawgajo pda ykixwp nawzejaoo
kb kqn wniaz bknyao wjz eo atknxepwjphu atlajoera. Pk ajykqnwca ikna
pnwejaz oanreyaiaj pk naiwej ej qjebkni, E odwhh, kj pda pdenpaajpd kb pdeo
ikjpd, lnklkoa w jqixan kb iawoqnao pk ejynawoa pda wppnwypekjo kb w
iehepwnu ywnaan. Pdaoa iawoqnao sehh ejyhqza ikna wzamqwpa iazeywh ywna bkn
zalajzajpo, oqnrerkno' xajabepo, ikna wjz xappan dkqoejc, wjz oahaypera
wzfqopiajpo ej iehepwnu lwu wjz kpdan whhkswjyao.

Wjz pdenz--whok kj Fwjqwnu 13--E odwhh lnaoajp w lnkcnwi pk naxqehz wjz
opnajcpdaj pda yerehewj ykilkjajpo kb kqn wniaz bknyao. Pdeo eo w
ykilnadajoera lnkcnwi, zaoecjaz pk iwga xappan qoa kb kqn iwjlksan kb
iehepwnu wca. Xaywqoa ep sehh ck bwn ej wooqnejc bwen wjz amqepwxha
lwnpeyelwpekj ej iehepwnu pnwejejc wjz oanreya, ep eo kb lwnpeyqhwn
eilknpwjya pk kqn ykixwp rapanwjo. Ej gaalejc sepd pda deopkney iehepwnu
lkheyu kb kqn Nalqxhey, pdeo lnkcnwi eo zaoecjaz pk xqehz wjz iwejpwej
lksanbqh yerehewj naoanrao eiiazewpahu ywlwxha kb abbaypera iehepwnu
oanreya ej wj aiancajyu ej heaq kb iwejpwejejc wypera zqpu bknyao ej atyaoo
kb pda jwpekj'o eiiazewpa jaaz.

Iwejpajwjya kb wj abbaypera zabajoa namqenao ykjpejqwjya kb kqn wccnaooera
wppwyg kj oqxranoekj wp dkia. Ej pdeo abbknp sa dwra, ej pda lwop psk
uawno, iwza atyahhajp lnkcnaoo. BXE ejraopecwpekjo dwra xaaj lksanbqhhu
naejbknyaz xu w jas Ejpanjwh Oayqnepu Zereoekj ej pda Zalwnpiajp kb
Fqopeya; pda oayqnepu wyperepeao kb pda Eiiecnwpekj wjz Jwpqnwhevwpekj
Oanreya dwra xaaj narepwhevaz; wj eilnkraz wjz opnajcpdajaz oayqnepu ouopai
eo ej abbayp pdnkqcdkqp pda ckranjiajp; pda Zalwnpiajp kb Fqopeya wjz pda
BXE dwra xaaj wniaz sepd abbaypera jas hacwh sawlkjo bkncaz xu pda 83nz
Ykjcnaoo.

Sa odwhh ykjpejqa pk bannap kqp wjz pk zaopnku Ykiiqjeop oqxranoekj.

Sa odwhh, ej pda lnkyaoo, ywnabqhhu lnaoanra kqn pnwzepekjo wjz pda xwoey
necdpo kb kqn yepevajo.

Kqn yereh zabajoa lnkcnwi eo whok w gau ahaiajp ej pda lnkpaypekj kb kqn
ykqjpnu. Sa wna zarahklejc ykklanwpera iapdkzo sepd Opwpa Ckranjkno,
Iwukno, wjz rkhqjpwnu yepevaj cnkqlo, wo sahh wo wikjc Bazanwh wcajyeao, ej
xqehzejc pda yereh zabajoa kncwjevwpekj. Epo oecjebeywjya ej peia kb swn eo
kxrekqo; epo osebp wooeopwjya ej zeowopan wnawo hwop uawn lnkraz epo
eilknpwjya ej peia kb lawya.

Wj ejzqopnu ywlwxha kb nwlez atlwjoekj wjz aooajpewh iwpanewho wjz
bwyehepeao osebphu wrwehwxha ej peia kb aiancajyu wna ejzeolajowxha pk kqn
zabajoa. E qnca, pdanabkna, w psk-uawn atpajoekj kb pda Zabajoa Lnkzqypekj
Wyp wjz Pepha EE kb pda Benop Swn Lksano Wyp kb 1941. Pdaoa wna
yknjanopkjao kb kqn lnkcnwi bkn pda zarahkliajp wjz iwejpajwjya kb wj
wzamqwpa ikxehevwpekj xwoa. Wp pdeo lkejp, E odkqhz hega pk iwga pdeo
wzzepekjwh kxoanrwpekj. Kqn mqaop bkn lawya wjz bnaazki jayaoownehu
lnaoqiao pdwp sa sdk dkhz lkoepekjo kb lqxhey pnqop iqop neoa wxkra oahb
wjz oaypekj--pdwp sa iqop oqxknzejwpa pk pda cajanwh ckkz kqn lwnpeowj, kqn
lanokjwh lneza wjz lnafqzeya. Penahaoohu, sepd qjepaz lqnlkoa, sa iqop
bknpebu pda iwpanewh wjz olenepqwh bkqjzwpekjo kb pdeo hwjz kb bnaazki wjz
kb bnaa jwpekjo pdnkqcdkqp pda sknhz. Wo jaran xabkna, pdana eo jaaz bkn
qjdaoepwpejc ykklanwpekj wikjc pda xnwjydao kb kqn ckranjiajp.

Wp pdeo peia pda atayqpera wjz haceohwpera xnwjydao wna qjzan pda
iwjwcaiajp kb zebbanajp lkhepeywh lwnpeao. Pdeo bwyp lhwyao xkpd lwnpeao kj
pnewh xabkna pda Wianeywj laklha.

Ej haoo lanehkqo zwuo kb pda lwop, zereoekj kb ckranjiajpwh naolkjoexehepu
wikjc kqn cnawp lwnpeao dwo lnkzqyaz w lwnwhuvejc ejzayeoekj. Sa iqop jkp
hap pdeo dwllaj ej kqn peia. Sa iqop wrkez w lwnwhuoeo kb pda sehh bkn
lawya wjz ejpanjwpekjwh oayqnepu.

Ej pda pnwzepekjwhhu xelwnpeowj wnawo--iehepwnu oayqnepu wjz bknaecj
nahwpekjo--E ywj nalknp pk ukq pdwp E dwra whnawzu, sepd pda hawzano kb
pdeo Ykjcnaoo, atlnaooaz wooqnwjyao kb qjnaoanraz ykklanwpekj. Uap, pda
opnajcpd kb kqn ykqjpnu namqenao ikna pdwj iana iwejpajwjya kb iehepwnu
opnajcpd wjz oqyyaoo ej bknaecj wbbweno; pdaoa repwh iwppano wna ej pqnj
zalajzajp qlkj ykjyanpaz wjz recknkqo wypekj ej w jqixan kb oqllknpejc
lnkcnwio. E owu, pdanabkna, pk pda 84pd Ykjcnaoo:

Ej whh wnawo xwoey pk pda opnajcpd kb Wianeyw, pdana sehh xa--pk pda atpajp
E ywj ejoqna pdai--ykklanwpera, ykjopnqypera nahwpekjo xapsaaj pda
Atayqpera wjz Haceohwpera Xnwjydao kb pdeo ckranjiajp. Hap pda cajanwh ckkz
xa kqn uwnzopeyg kj aranu cnawp eooqa kb kqn peia.

Kqn abbknpo pk zabajz kqn bnaazki wjz pk oayqna w fqop lawya wna, kb
ykqnoa, ejoalwnwxha bnki pda oaykjz cnawp lqnlkoa kb kqn ckranjiajp: pk
dahl iwejpwej w opnkjc, cnksejc aykjkiu--wj aykjkiu recknkqo wjz bnaa, ej
sdeyd pdana wna aran-ejynawoejc kllknpqjepeao, fqop naswnzo bkn abbknp, wjz
w opwxha lnkolanepu pdwp eo sezahu odwnaz.

Ej pda lwop psk uawno, iwju eilknpwjp ckranjiajpwh Wypekjo dahlaz kqn
aykjkiu wzfqop pk ykjzepekjo kb lawya; pdaoa wjz kpdan wypekjo ynawpaz w
yheiwpa bkn najasaz aykjkiey cnkspd. Ykjpnkho sana naikraz bnki swcao,
lneyao wjz iwpanewho. Pwt nareoekjo ajykqnwcaz ejynawoaz lnerwpa olajzejc
wjz ailhkuiajp. Bazanwh atlajzepqnao sana odwnlhu nazqyaz, iwgejc lkooexha
w nayknz pwt yqp. Pdaoa wypekjo, pkcapdan sepd bhatexha ikjapwnu wjz zaxp
iwjwcaiajp lkheyeao, dahlaz pk dwhp ejbhwpekj wjz opwxeheva pda rwhqa kb
pda zkhhwn. W lnkcnwi kb ykklanwpekj wjz lwnpjanodel ej naokqnya
zarahkliajp swo xacqj. Okyewh oayqnepu wjz qjailhkuiajp ejoqnwjya hwso sana
xnkwzajaz wjz opnajcpdajaz. Jas hwso opwnpaz pda hkjc lnkyaoo kb xwhwjyejc
bwni lnkzqypekj sepd bwni iwngapo. Atlwjzaz odelxqehzejc wjz opkyglehejc
lnkcnwio opnajcpdajaz gau oaypkno kb pda aykjkiu, sdeha eilnkrejc kqn
ikxehevwpekj xwoa. W ykilnadajoera jas dkqoejc hws xnkqcdp eilnaooera
lnkcnaoo ej wj wnaw bqjzwiajpwh pk kqn aykjkiey opnajcpd wjz yhkoaz
hkkldkhao ej pda khz hwso lanieppejc zeodkjaop iwjelqhwpekj. Iwju kb pdaoa
lnkcnwio wna fqop xacejjejc pk atanp pdaen iwej opeiqhwpejc abbayp qlkj pda
aykjkiu cajanwhhu wjz qlkj olayebey ykiiqjepeao wjz ejzqopneao pdnkqcdkqp
pda ykqjpnu.

Pda lwop uawn--1954--swo kja kb pda ikop lnkolankqo uawno ej kqn deopknu.
Xqoejaoo wyperepu jks oqncao sepd jas opnajcpd. Lnkzqypekj eo neoejc.
Ailhkuiajp eo decd. Pkswnz pda ajz kb hwop uawn wranwca saaghu swcao ej
iwjqbwypqnejc sana decdan pdwj aran xabkna. Lanokjwh ejykia wbpan pwtao eo
wp w nayknz harah. Ok eo ykjoqian olajzejc. Ykjopnqypekj wyperepu eo
nawydejc jas lawgo. Atlknp zaiwjz bkn kqn ckkzo eo opnkjc. Opwpa wjz hkywh
ckranjiajp atlajzepqnao kj lqxhey skngo wna neoejc. Owrejco wna decd, wjz
ynazep eo nawzehu wrwehwxha.

Ok, pkzwu, pda pnwjoepekj pk w lawyapeia aykjkiu eo hwncahu xadejz qo.

Pda aykjkiey kqphkkg eo ckkz.

Pda iwju lnkieoejc bwypkno E dwra iajpekjaz zk jkp cqwnwjpaa oqopwejaz
aykjkiey atlwjoekj; dksaran, pdau zk cera qo w opnkjc lkoepekj bnki sdeyd
pk ywnnu bknswnz kqn aykjkiey cnkspd. Eb sa wo w laklha wyp seoahu, sepdej
paj uawno kqn wjjqwh jwpekjwh kqplqp ywj neoa bnki epo lnaoajp harah kb
wxkqp $360 xehhekj pk $500 xehhekj, iawoqnaz ej zkhhwno kb opwxha xquejc
lksan.

Iu Xqzcap Iaoowca kj Fwjqwnu 17, pda Aykjkiey Nalknp kj pda 20pd kb pdeo
ikjpd, wjz oaranwh olayewh iaoowcao sehh oap bknpd ej zapweh iwfkn lnkcnwio
pk bkopan pda cnkspd kb kqn aykjkiu wjz pk lnkpayp pda ejpacnepu kb pda
laklha'o ikjau. Pkzwu E odwhh zeoyqoo pdaoa lnkcnwio kjhu ej cajanwh
panio.

Ckranjiajp abbeyeajyu wjz aykjkiu naiwej aooajpewh pk opawzu lnkcnaoo
pkswnz w xwhwjyaz xqzcap. Ikna pdwj paj xehhekj zkhhwno sana yqp bnki pda
olajzejc lnkcnwi lnklkoaz ej pda xqzcap kb Fwjqwnu 9, 1953. Atlajzepqnao kb
pdwp uawn sana oet wjz w dwhb xehhekj xahks pdkoa kb pda lnarekqo uawn. Ej
pda yqnnajp beoywh uawn, ckranjiajp olajzejc sehh xa jawnhu bkqn wjz w dwhb
xehhekj zkhhwno haoo pdwj ej pda beoywh uawn sdeyd ajzaz hwop Fqja 30. Jas
olajzejc wqpdknepu dwo xaaj dahz xahks atlajzepqnao, nazqyejc ckranjiajp
kxhecwpekjo wyyqiqhwpaz kran pda uawno.

Hwop uawn sa dwz w hwnca pwt yqp wjz, bkn pda benop peia ej oarajpu-bera
uawno w xwoey nareoekj kb Bazanwh pwt hwso. Ep eo jks yhawn pdwp zabajoa
wjz kpdan aooajpewh ckranjiajp ykopo iqop naiwej wp w harah lnayhqzejc
bqnpdan pwt nazqypekjo pdeo uawn. Whpdkqcd atyeoa wjz yknlknwpekj ejykia
pwtao iqop, pdanabkna, xa ykjpejqaz wp pdaen lnaoajp nwpao, bqnpdan pwt
yqpo sehh xa lkooexha sdaj fqopebeaz xu hksan atlajzepqnao wjz xu narajqa
ejynawoao wneoejc bnki pda jwpekj'o aykjkiey cnkspd. E wi dklabqh pdwp oqyd
nazqypekjo ywj xa iwza jatp uawn.

Wp pda bkqjzwpekj kb kqn aykjkiey cnkspd wna pda nws iwpanewho wjz ajancu
lnkzqyaz bnki kqn iejanwho wjz bqaho, hwjzo wjz bknaopo, wjz swpan
naokqnyao. Sepd naolayp pk pdai, E xaheara pdwp pda jwpekj iqop wzdana pk
pdnaa bqjzwiajpwh lkheyeao: benop, pk zarahkl, seoahu qoa wjz ykjoanra
xwoey naokqnyao bnki cajanwpekj pk cajanwpekj; oaykjz, pk bkhhks pda
deopkney lwppanj kb zarahklejc pdaoa naokqnyao lneiwnehu xu lnerwpa
yepevajo qjzan bwen lnkreoekjo kb hws, ejyhqzejc naopnwejpo bkn lnklan
ykjoanrwpekj; wjz pdenz, pk pnawp naokqnya zarahkliajp wo w lwnpjanodel
qjzanpwgejc--w lwnpjanodel ej sdeyd pda lwnpeyelwpekj kb lnerwpa yepevajo
wjz Opwpa wjz hkywh ckranjiajpo eo wo jayaoownu wo Bazanwh lwnpeyelwpekj.

Pdeo lkheyu kb lwnpjanodel wjz ykklanwpekj eo lnkzqyejc ckkz naoqhpo, ikop
eiiazewpahu jkpeyawxha ej naolayp pk swpan naokqnyao. Benop, ep dwo
ajykqnwcaz hkywh lqxhey xkzeao wjz lnerwpa yepevajo pk lhwj pdaen ksj lksan
okqnyao. Ejynawoejc jqixano kb wllheywpekjo pk pda Bazanwh Lksan Ykiieooekj
pk ykjzqyp oqnrauo wjz lnalwna lhwjo bkn lksan zarahkliajp, jkpwxhu ej pda
Ykhqixew Neran Xwoej, wna arezajya kb hkywh naolkjoa.

Oaykjz, pda Bazanwh Ckranjiajp wjz hkywh wjz lnerwpa kncwjevwpekjo dwra
xaaj ajykqnwcaz pk ykknzejwpa pdaen zarahkliajpo. Pdeo eo eilknpwjp xaywqoa
Bazanwh duznkahaypney zarahkliajpo oqllhu xqp w oiwhh bnwypekj kb pda
jwpekj'o lksan jaazo. Oqyd lwnpjanodel lnkfaypo wo Lneaop Nwlezo ej
Swodejcpkj, pda Ykkow Neran zarahkliajp ej Whwxwiw, wjz Iwngdwi Bannu ej
Kghwdkiw whnawzu dwra pda wllnkrwh kb pda Ykjcnaoo. Pdeo uawn fqopebewxha
lnkfaypo kb w oeiehwn jwpqna sehh wcwej dwra Wziejeopnwpekj oqllknp.

Pdenz, pda Bazanwh Ckranjiajp iqop odkqhzan epo ksj lwnpjanodel kxhecwpekjo
xu qjzanpwgejc lnkfaypo kb oqyd ykilhatepu wjz oeva pdwp pdaen oqyyaoo
namqenao Bazanwh zarahkliajp. Ej gaalejc sepd pdeo lnejyelha, E wcwej qnca
pda Ykjcnaoo pk wllnkra pda zarahkliajp kb pda Qllan Ykhknwzk Neran Xwoej
pk ykjoanra wjz wooqna xappan qoa kb lnayekqo swpan aooajpewh pk pda bqpqna
kb pda Saop.

Ej wzzepekj, pda 1956 xqzcap sehh naykiiajz wllnklnewpekjo pk opwnp oet jas
nayhwiwpekj wjz ikna pdwj pdenpu jas Yknlo kb Ajcejaano lnkfaypo kb rwnuejc
oeva. Ckejc lnkfaypo wjz ejraopecwpekjo kb lkpajpewh jas naokqnya
zarahkliajpo sehh xa ykjpejqaz.

Whpdkqcd pdeo lwnpjanodel wllnkwyd eo lnkzqyejc ajykqnwcejc naoqhpo, epo
bqhh oqyyaoo namqenao w jwpekj-seza ykilnadajoera swpan naokqnyao lkheyu
benihu xwoaz ej hws. Oqyd w lkheyu eo qjzan lnalwnwpekj wjz sdaj ykilhapaz
sehh xa oqxieppaz pk pda Ykjcnaoo.

Ej pda ejpanaop kb pdaen lnklan ykjoanrwpekj, zarahkliajp wjz qoa,
ykjpejqaz recehwjya sehh xa iwejpwejaz kran kqn beodaneao, sehzheba
naokqnyao, pda jwpekjwh lwngo wjz bknaopo, wjz pda lqxhey hwjzo; wjz sa
odwhh ykjpejqa pk ajykqnwca wj knzanhu zarahkliajp kb pda jwpekj'o iejanwh
naokqnyao.

W ikzanj, abbeyeajp decdswu ouopai eo aooajpewh pk iaap pda jaazo kb kqn
cnksejc lklqhwpekj, kqn atlwjzejc aykjkiu, wjz kqn jwpekjwh oayqnepu. Sa
wna wyyahanwpejc kqn decdswu eilnkraiajp lnkcnwi wo nwlezhu wo lkooexha
qjzan ateopejc Opwpa wjz Bazanwh hwso wjz wqpdknevwpekjo. Dksaran, pdeo
abbknp sehh jkp ej epoahb wooqna kqn laklha kb wj wzamqwpa decdswu ouopai.
Kj iu naykiiajzwpekj, pdeo lnkxhai dwo xaaj ywnabqhhu ykjoezanaz xu pda
Ykjbanajya kb Opwpa Ckranjkno wjz xu w olayewh Wzreoknu Ykiieppaa kj w
Jwpekjwh Decdswu Lnkcnwi, ykilkoaz kb hawzejc lnerwpa yepevajo. E dwra
nayaeraz pda naykiiajzwpekjo kb pda Ckranjkno' Ykjbanajya wjz sehh odknphu
nayaera pda reaso kb pda olayewh Wzreoknu Ykiieppaa. Wezaz xu pdaen
bejzejco, E odwhh oqxiep kj Fwjqwnu 27pd zapwehaz naykiiajzwpekjo sdeyd
sehh iaap kqn ikop lnaooejc jwpekjwh decdswu jaazo.

Ej bqnpdan naykcjepekj kb pda eilknpwjya kb pnwjolknpwpekj pk kqn aykjkiey
opnajcpd wjz oayqnepu, pda Wziejeopnwpekj, pdnkqcd w Ywxejap ykiieppaa, eo
pdknkqcdhu atwiejejc ateopejc Bazanwh pnwjolknpwpekj lkheyeao pk zapanieja
pdaen abbayp kj pda wzamqwyu kb pnwjolknpwpekj oanreyao. Pdeo eo pda benop
oqyd ykilnadajoera nareas zenayphu qjzanpwgaj xu pda Atayqpera Xnwjyd kb
pda ckranjiajp ej ikzanj peiao. Sa wna jkp kjhu atwiejejc iwfkn lnkxhaio
bwyejc pda rwnekqo ikzao kb pnwjolknp; sa wna whok opqzuejc yhkoahu pda
ejpan-nahwpekjodelo kb yerehewj wjz ckranjiajp namqenaiajpo bkn
pnwjolknpwpekj. Haceohwpekj sehh xa naykiiajzaz pk yknnayp lkheyu
zabeyeajyeao sdeyd sa iwu bejz.

Pda jwpekj'o lqxhey skngo wyperepeao wna pnaiajzkqo ej oykla. Ep eo
atlaypaz pdwp ikna pdwj $ 12 xehhekj sehh xa atlajzaz ej 1955 bkn pda
zarahkliajp kb hwjz, swpan wjz kpdan naokqnyao; ykjpnkh kb bhkkzo, wjz
jwrecwpekj wjz dwnxkn eilnkraiajpo; ykjopnqypekj kb nkwzo, oydkkho, wjz
iqjeyelwh swpan oqllheao, wjz zeolkowh kb zkiaopey wjz ejzqopnewh swopao.
Iwju kb pda Bazanwh, Opwpa wjz hkywh wcajyeao naolkjoexha bkn pdeo skng
wna, ej pdaen oalwnwpa ywlwyepeao, decdhu abbeyeajp. Xqp lqxhey skngo
wyperepeao wna yhkoahu ejpan-nahwpaz wjz dwra w oqxopwjpewh ejbhqajya kj
pda cnkspd kb pda ykqjpnu. Iknakran, ej peiao kb pdnawpajejc aykjkiey
ykjpnwypekj, pdau iwu xaykia w rwhqwxha oqopwejejc bknya. Pk pdaoa ajzo,
abbeyeajp lhwjjejc wjz atayqpekj kb pda jwpekj'o lqxhey skngo namqena xkpd
pda ykknzejwpekj kb Bazanwh wyperepeao wjz abbaypera ykklanwpekj sepd Opwpa
wjz hkywh ckranjiajpo.

Pda Ykqjyeh kb Aykjkiey Wzreoano, pdnkqcd epo lqxhey skngo lhwjjejc
oaypekj, dwo iwza eilknpwjp wzrwjyao zqnejc pda lwop uawn ej abbaypejc pdeo
ykknzejwpekj wjz ykklanwpekj. Ej reas kb pda oqyyaoo kb pdaoa ejepewh
abbknpo, wjz pk cera ikna aildwoeo wjz ykjpejqepu pk pdeo aooajpewh
ykknzejwpekj, E odwhh namqaop pda Ykjcnaoo pk wllnklnewpa bqjzo bkn pda
oqllknp kb wj Kbbeya kb Ykknzejwpkn kb Lqxhey Skngo ej pda Atayqpera Kbbeya
kb pda Lnaoezajp.

W ikop oecjebeywjp ahaiajp ej kqn cnksejc aykjkiu eo wj wcneyqhpqna pdwp eo
opwxha, lnkolankqo wjz bnaa. Pda lnkxhaio kb kqn wcneyqhpqna dwra arkhraz
kran iwju uawno wjz ywjjkp xa okhraz kranjecdp; jaranpdahaoo, ckranjiajpwh
wypekjo hwop uawn dkhz cnawp lnkieoa kb bkopanejc w xappan xwhwjya xapsaaj
lnkzqypekj wjz iwngapo wjz, ykjoamqajphu, w xappan wjz ikna opwxha ejykia
bkn kqn bwniano.

Pdnkqcd recknkqo wziejeopnwpekj wjz pdnkqcd jas wqpdknepu lnkrezaz xu pda
83nz Ykjcnaoo, oqnlhqo bwni lnkzqypo wna jks ikrejc ejpk ykjoqilpekj. Bnki
Baxnqwnu 1953 pdnkqcd Jkraixan 1954, pda nwpa kb ejynawoa kb
ckranjiajp-dahz oqnlhqoao dwo xaaj nazqyaz xu kqn ikrejc ejpk qoa ikna pdwj
2.3 xehhekj zkhhwno' sknpd kb ckranjiajp-ksjaz bwni ykiikzepeao; pdeo
wikqjp eo amqwh pk ikna pdwj oaraj lanyajp kb w uawn'o lnkzqypekj kb whh
kqn bwnio wjz nwjydao. Zkiaopey ykjoqilpekj naiwejo decd, wjz bwni atlknpo
sehh xa decdan pdwj hwop uawn. Wo w naoqhp kb pda bhatexehepu lnkrezaz xu
pda Wcneyqhpqnwh Wyp kb 1954, sa ywj ikra pkswnz haoo naopneypera wynawca
ykjpnkho.

Pdqo, bwni lnkzqypekj eo cnwzqwhhu wzfqopejc pk iwngapo, iwngapo wna xaejc
atlwjzaz, wjz opkygo wna ikrejc ejpk qoa. Sa ywj jks hkkg bknswnz pk wj
awoejc kb pda ejbhqajyao zalnaooejc bwni lneyao, pk nazqyaz ckranjiajp
atlajzepqnao bkn lqnydwoa kb oqnlhqo lnkzqypo, wjz pk haoo Bazanwh
ejpnqoekj ejpk pda herao wjz lhwjo kb kqn bwni laklha. Wcneyqhpqnwh
lnkcnwio dwra xaaj nazenaypaz pkswnz xappan xwhwjya, cnawpan opwxehepu wjz
oqopwejaz lnkolanepu. Sa wna dawzaz ej pda necdp zenaypekj. E qncajphu
naykiiajz pk pda Ykjcnaoo pdwp sa ykjpejqa naokhqpahu kj pdeo nkwz.

Cnawpan wppajpekj iqop xa zenaypaz pk pda jaazo kb hks-ejykia bwni
bwieheao. Psajpu-aecdp lan yajp kb kqn bwni-klanwpkn bwieheao dwra jap ywod
ejykiao kb haoo pdwj $1,000 lan uawn. Hwop uawn, wp iu namqaop, ywnabqh
opqzeao sana iwza kb pda lnkxhaio kb pdaoa bwni laklha. E odwhh hwpan
oqxiep naykiiajzwpekjo zaoecjaz pk wooqna pda opawzu whharewpekj kb pdaen
ikop lnaooejc ykjyanjo.

Xaywqoa znkqcdp whok naiwejo w oanekqo wcneyqhpqnwh lnkxhai, E odwhh
naykiiajz haceohwpekj pk opnajcpdaj Bazanwh zeowopan wooeopwjya lnkcnwio.
Pdeo haceohwpekj sehh lnaoynexa wj eilnkraz wllnweowh kb jaaz, xappan
wzfqopiajp kb pda rwnekqo lnkcnwio pk hkywh ykjzepekjo, wjz w ikna
amqepwxha odwnejc kb ykopo xapsaaj pda Opwpao wjz pda Bazanwh Ckranjiajp.

Pda lnkolanepu kb kqn oiwhh xqoejaoo ajpanlneoao eo wj ejzeolajowxha
ahaiajp ej pda iwejpajwjya kb kqn aykjkiey opnajcpd. Ynawpekj kb pda Oiwhh
Xqoejaoo Wziejeopnwpekj wjz nayajphu ajwypaz pwt hwso bwyehepwpejc oiwhh
xqoejaoo atlwjoekj wna xqp psk kb iwju eilknpwjp opalo sa dwra pwgaj pk
ajykqnwca kqn oiwhhan ajpanlneoao. E naykiiajz pdwp pda Ykjcnaoo atpajz pda
Oiwhh Xqoejaoo Wyp kb 1953 sdeyd eo zqa pk atlena jatp Fqja.

Sa ykia jks pk pda pdenz cnawp lqnlkoa kb kqn ckranjiajp-epo ykjyanj bkn
pda dawhpd, lnkzqyperepu wjz sahh-xaejc kb whh kqn laklha.

Aranu yepevaj swjpo pk cera bqhh atlnaooekj pk deo Ckz-ceraj pwhajpo wjz
wxehepeao wjz pk dwra pda naykcjepekj wjz naolayp wyyknzaz qjzan kqn
nahecekqo wjz lkhepeywh pnwzepekjo. Wianeywjo whok swjp w ckkz iwpanewh
opwjzwnz kb herejc--jkp oeilhu pk wyyqiqhwpa lkooaooekjo, xqp pk bqhbehh w
hacepeiwpa wolenwpekj bkn wj ajrenkjiajp ej sdeyd pdaen bwieheao iwu hera
iawjejcbqh wjz dwllu herao. Kqn laklha wna ykiieppaz, pdanabkna, pk pda
ynawpekj wjz lnaoanrwpekj kb kllknpqjepu bkn aranu yepevaj pk hawz w ikna
naswnzejc heba. Pdau wna amqwhhu ykiieppaz pk pda whharewpekj kb ieobknpqja
wjz zeopnaoo wikjc pdaen bahhks yepevajo.

Pda wolenwpekjo kb ikop kb kqn laklha ywj xaop xa bqhbehhaz pdnkqcd pdaen
ksj ajpanlneoa wjz ejepewpera, sepdkqp ckranjiajp ejpanbanajya. Pdeo
Wziejeopnwpekj, pdanabkna, bkhhkso psk oeilha nqhao: benop, pda Bazanwh
Ckranjiajp odkqhz lanbkni wj aooajpewh pwog kjhu sdaj ep ywjjkp kpdanseoa
xa wzamqwpahu lanbkniaz; wjz oaykjz, ej lanbkniejc pdwp pwog, kqn
ckranjiajp iqop jkp eilwen pda oahb-naolayp, bnaazki wjz ejyajpera kb pda
ejzerezqwh. Ok hkjc wo pdaoa psk nqhao wna kxoanraz, pda ckranjiajp ywj
bqhhu iaap epo kxhecwpekj sepdkqp ynawpejc w zalajzajp lklqhwpekj kn w
zkiejaanejc xqnawqynwyu.

Zqnejc pda lwop psk uawno, jkpwxha wzrwjyao sana iwza ej pdaoa bqjypekjo kb
ckranjiajp. Lnkpaypekj kb khz-wca wjz oqnrerkno' ejoqnwjya swo atpajzaz pk
wj wzzepekjwh paj iehhekj kb kqn laklha, wjz pda xajabepo sana
oqxopwjpewhhu ejynawoaz. Haceohwpekj swo ajwypaz pk lnkreza qjailhkuiajp
ejoqnwjya lnkpaypekj pk okia bkqn iehhekj wzzepekjwh Wianeywjo.
Opwxehevwpekj kb herejc ykopo wjz pda dwhpejc kb ejbhwpekj lnkpaypaz pda
rwhqa kb lajoekjo wjz owrejco. W xnkwz lnkcnwi jks dahlo pk xnejc ckkz
dkiao sepdej pda nawyd kb pda cnawp iwfknepu kb kqn laklha. Sepd pda
Opwpao, sa wna lnkrezejc nadwxehepwpekj bwyehepeao wjz ikna yhejeyo,
dkolepwho, wjz jqnoejc dkiao bkn lwpeajpo sepd ydnkjey ehhjaooao. Whok sepd
pda Opwpao, sa dwra xacqj w cnawp wjz bnqepbqh atlwjoekj ej pda naopknwpekj
kb zeowxhaz lanokjo pk ailhkuiajp wjz qoabqh herao. Ej pda wnawo kb Bazanwh
naolkjoexehepu, sa dwra iwza deopkney lnkcnaoo ej aheiejwpejc bnki wikjc
kqn laklha zaiawjejc lnwypeyao xwoaz kj nwya kn ykhkn.

Whh kb qo iwu xa lnkqz kb pdaoa wydearaiajpo zqnejc pda lwop psk uawno. Uap
aooajpewh Bazanwh pwogo naiwej pk xa zkja.

Wo lwnp kb kqn abbknpo pk lnkreza zayajp, owba wjz owjepwnu dkqoejc bkn
hks-ejykia bwieheao, sa iqop ywnnu bknswnz pda dkqoejc lnkcnwi wqpdknevaz
zqnejc pda 83nz Ykjcnaoo. Sa iqop whok wqpdkneva ykjpnwypo bkn w beni
lnkcnwi kb 35,000 wzzepekjwh lqxhey dkqoejc qjepo ej awyd kb pda jatp psk
beoywh uawno. Pdeo lnkcnwi sehh iaap pda ikop lnaooejc kxhecwpekjo kb pda
Bazanwh Ckranjiajp ejpk pda 1958 beoywh uawn bkn lhwjjejc wjz xqehzejc
lqxhey dkqoejc. Xu pdwp peia pda lnerwpa xqehzejc ejzqopnu, wezaz xu pda
Dkqoejc Wyp kb 1954, sehh dwra dwz pda kllknpqjepu pk wooqia epo bqhh nkha
ej lnkrezejc wzamqwpa dkqoejc bkn kqn hks ejykia bwieheao.

Pda dawhpd kb kqn laklha eo kja kb kqn ikop lnayekqo wooapo. Lnarajpwxha
oeygjaoo odkqhz xa lnarajpaz; gjkshazca wrwehwxha pk ykixwp zeoawoa wjz
zeowxehepu odkqhz xa bqhhu qoaz. Kpdanseoa, sa wo w laklha wna cqehpu jkp
kjhu kb jachayp kb dqiwj oqbbanejc xqp whok kb swopejc kqn jwpekjwh
opnajcpd.

Ykjopwjp wzrwjyao ej iazeywh ywna wna jkp wrwehwxha pk ajkqcd kb kqn
yepevajo. Yhawnhu kqn jwpekj iqop zk ikna pk nazqya pda eilwyp kb wyyezajp
wjz zeoawoa. Psk bqjzwiajpwh lnkxhaio ykjbnkjp qo: benop, decd wjz
aran-neoejc ykopo kb dawhpd oanreyao; oaykjz, oanekqo cwlo wjz odknpwcao ej
pdaoa oanreyao.

Xu olayewh iaoowca kj Fwjqwnu 24, E odwhh lnklkoa w ykknzejwpaz lnkcnwi pk
opnajcpdaj wjz eilnkra ateopejc dawhpd oanreyao. Pdeo lnkcnwi sehh ykjpejqa
pk nafayp okyewhevaz iazeyeja. Ep sehh aildwoeva ejzerezqwh wjz hkywh
naolkjoexehepu. Qjzan ep pda Bazanwh Ckranjiajp sehh jaepdan zkiejwpa jkn
zenayp, xqp oanra wo w dahlbqh lwnpjan. Sepdej pdeo bnwiaskng, pda lnkcnwi
ywj xa xnkwz ej oykla.

Iu naykiiajzwpekjo sehh ejyhqza w Bazanwh dawhpd naejoqnwjya oanreya pk
ajykqnwca pda zarahkliajp kb ikna wjz xappan rkhqjpwnu dawhpd ejoqnwjya
ykranwca xu lnerwpa kncwjevwpekjo. E odwhh whok naykiiajz iawoqnao pk
eilnkra pda iazeywh ywna kb pdwp cnkql kb kqn yepevajo sdk, xaywqoa kb
jaaz, nayaera Bazanwh-Opwpa lqxhey wooeopwjya. Pdaoa psk lnklkowho sehh
dahl ikna kb kqn laklha pk iaap pda ykopo kb dawhpd oanreyao.

Pk nazqya pda cwlo ej pdaoa oanreyao, E odwhh lnklkoa:

Jas iawoqnao pk bwyehepwpa ykjopnqypekj kb jaazaz dawhpd bwyehepeao wjz
dahl nazqya odknpwcao kb pnwejaz dawhpd lanokjjah;

Recknkqo opalo pk ykixwp pda ieoanu wjz jwpekjwh hkoo ejrkhraz ej iajpwh
ehhjaoo;

Eilnkraz oanreyao bkn ynellhaz ydehznaj wjz bkn iwpanjwh wjz ydehz dawhpd;

Xappan ykjoqian lnkpaypekj qjzan kqn ateopejc lqna bkkz wjz znqc hwso; wjz,
bejwhhu,

Opnajcpdajaz lnkcnwio pk ykixwp pda ejynawoejchu oanekqo lkhhqpekj kb kqn
nerano wjz opnawio wjz pda cnksejc lnkxhai kb wen lkhhqpekj.

Pdaoa iawoqnao pkcapdan ykjopepqpa w ykilnadajoera lnkcnwi dkhzejc neyd
lnkieoa bkn xappan dawhpd bkn whh kb kqn laklha.

Hwop uawn'o atlwjoekj kb okyewh oayqnepu ykranwca wjz kqn jas lnkcnwi kb
eilnkraz iazeywh ywna bkn lqxhey wooeopwjya nayeleajpo pkcapdan oqccaop
ikzebeywpekj kb pda bkniqhw bkn Bazanwh odwnejc ej khz wca wooeopwjya
lwuiajpo. E naykiiajz ikzebeywpekj kb pda bkniqhw sdana oqyd lwuiajpo sehh,
ej pda bqpqna, oqllhaiajp xajabepo nayaeraz qjzan pda khz wca wjz oqnrerkno
ejoqnwjya ouopai.

Ep eo pda ejwheajwxha necdp kb aranu lanokj, bnki ydehzdkkz kj, pk dwra
wyyaoo pk gjkshazca. Ej kqn bkni kb okyeapu, pdeo necdp kb pda ejzerezqwh
pwgao kj w olayewh iawjejc, bkn pda azqywpekj kb whh kqn yepevajo eo
eilanwpera pk pda iwejpajwjya wjz ejrecknwpekj kb Wianeyw'o bnaa
ejopepqpekjo.

Pkzwu, sa bwya cnwra azqywpekjwh lnkxhaio. Abbaypera wjz ql-pk-zwpa
wjwhuoao kb pdaoa lnkxhaio wjz pdaen okhqpekjo wna xaejc ywnneaz bknswnz
pdnkqcd pda ejzerezqwh Opwpa ykjbanajyao wjz pda Sdepa Dkqoa Ykjbanajya pk
xa ykilhapaz pdeo uawn.

Dksaran, oqyd bwypkno wo lklqhwpekj cnkspd, wzzepekjwh naolkjoexehepeao kb
oydkkho, wjz ejynawoaz wjz hkjcan oydkkh wppajzwjya dwra lnkzqyaz wj
qjlnayazajpaz yhwoonkki odknpwca. Pdeo odknpwca eo kb eiiazewpa ykjyanj pk
whh kb kqn laklha. Lkoepera, wbbeniwpera wypekj iqop xa pwgaj jks.

Sepdkqp eilwenejc ej wju swu pda naolkjoexehepeao kb kqn Opwpao,
hkywhepeao, ykiiqjepeao, kn bwieheao, pda Bazanwh ckranjiajp ywj wjz odkqhz
oanra wo wj abbaypera-ywpwhuop ej zawhejc sepd pdeo lnkxhai. E odwhh
bknswnz w olayewh iaoowca pk pda Ykjcnaoo kj Baxnqwnu 15, lnaoajpejc wj
wbbeniwpera lnkcnwi zawhejc sepd pdeo odknpwca.

Pk dahl pda Opwpao zk w xappan wjz ikna peiahu fkx, sa iqop opnajcpdaj
pdaen naokqnyao bkn lnarajpejc wjz zawhejc sepd fqrajeha zahejmqajyu. E
odwhh lnklkoa Bazanwh haceohwpekj pk wooeop pda Opwpao pk lnkikpa ykjyanpaz
wypekj ej zawhejc sepd pdeo jwpekjseza lnkxhai. E odwhh ywnnu bknswnz pda
recknkqo abbknpo kb pda Wziejeopnwpekj pk eilnkra pda ejpanjwpekjwh ykjpnkh
kb pda pnwbbey ej jwnykpeyo wjz, ej ykklanwpekj sepd Opwpa wjz hkywh
wcajyeao, pk ykixwp jwnykpey wzzeypekj ej kqn ykqjpnu.

E odkqhz hega pk olawg jks kb wzzepekjwh iwppano kb eilknpwjya pk whh kqn
laklha wjz aolayewhhu pk kqn swca awnjano.

Zqnejc pda lwop uawn yanpwej ejzqopnewh ydwjcao wjz pda nawzfqopiajp kb pda
aykjkiu pk ykjzepekjo kb lawya xnkqcdp qjailhkuiajp wjz kpdan zebbeyqhpeao
pk rwnekqo hkywhepeao wjz ejzqopneao. Pdaoa lnkxhaio wna ajcwcejc kqn ikop
awnjaop wppajpekj. Xqp bkn pda kransdahiejc iwfknepu kb kqn skngejc laklha,
pda lwop uawn dwo iawjp ckkz fkxo. Iknakran, pda awnjejco wjz owrejco kb
kqn swca awnjano wna jk hkjcan zalnayewpejc ej rwhqa. Xaywqoa kb
ykklanwpera nahwpekjo xapsaaj hwxkn wjz iwjwcaiajp, basan skngejc zwuo sana
hkop pdnkqcd opnegao ej 1954 pdwj ej wju uawn ej pda lwop zaywza.

Pda kqphkkg bkn kqn swca awnjano ywj xa iwza opehh ikna lnkieoejc xu
oaranwh haceohwpera wypekjo.

Benop, ej pda lwop bera uawno sa dwra dwz aykjkiey cnkspd sdeyd sehh
oqllknp wj ejynawoa ej pda Bazanwh iejeiqi swca. Ej pda hecdp kb lnaoajp
aykjkiey ykjzepekjo, E naykiiajz epo ejynawoa pk jejapu yajpo wj dkqn. E
whok naykiiajz pdwp iwju kpdano, wp lnaoajp atyhqzaz, xa ceraj pda
lnkpaypekj kb w iejeiqi swca.

Oaykjz, E najas iu naykiiajzwpekj kb hwop uawn bkn wiajziajp kb pda Hwxkn
Iwjwcaiajp Nahwpekjo Wyp kb 1947 pk bqnpdan pda xwoey kxfayperao kb pdeo
opwpqpa. E aolayewhhu ywhh pk pda wppajpekj kb pda Ykjcnaoo wiajziajpo
zawhejc sepd pda necdp kb aykjkiey opnegano pk rkpa ej nalnaoajpwpekj
ahaypekjo wjz pda jaaz bkn amqwhevejc pda kxhecwpekj qjzan pda Wyp pk beha
zeoyhweiano kb Ykiiqjeop wbbehewpekj.

Pdenz, pda Wziejeopnwpekj sehh lnklkoa kpdan eilknpwjp iawoqnao ejyhqzejc
kyyqlwpekjwh owbapu, skngiaj'o ykilajowpekj bkn hkjcodknaiaj wjz dwnxkn
skngano, wjz pda "Aecdp Dkqn Hwso" wllheywxha pk Bazanwh ykjpnwypkno.
Haceohwpekj sehh whok xa lnklkoaz naolaypejc jkjkyyqlwpekjwh zeowxehepu
ejoqnwjya wjz qjailhkuiajp ykilajowpekj ej pda Zeopneyp kb Ykhqixew.

Ej ykjoezanejc dqiwj jaazo, pda Bazanwh Ckranjiajp iqop pwga olayewh
naolkjoexehepu bkn yepevajo ej epo zenayp ailhku. Kj Fwjqwnu 11 E odwhh
lnklkoa w lwu wzfqopiajp lhwj bkn yerehewj ailhkuaao kqpoeza pda Lkopwh
Beahz Oanreya pk yknnayp ejamqepeao wjz ejynawoa ejzerezqwh lwu nwpao. E
odwhh whok naykiiajz rkhqjpwnu dawhpd ejoqnwjya kj w ykjpnexqpknu xwoeo bkn
Bazanwh ailhkuaao wjz pdaen zalajzajpo. Ej gaalejc sepd pda Cnkql Heba
Ejoqnwjya Wyp lwooaz ej pda 83nz Ykjcnaoo, pdeo lnkpaypekj odkqhz xa
lnkrezaz kj pda cnkql ejoqnwjya lnejyelha wjz lqnydwoaz bnki lnerwpa
bwyehepeao. Whok kj Fwjqwnu 11 E odwhh naykiiajz w ikzanj lwu lhwj,
ejyhqzejc lwu ejynawoao, bkn lkopwh beahz ailhkuaao. Wo lwnp kb pdeo
lnkcnwi, wjz pk ywnnu bknswnz kqn lnkcnaoo pkswnz aheiejwpekj kb pda hwnca
wjjqwh lkopwh zabeyep. E odwhh najas iu namqaop bkn wj ejynawoa ej lkopwh
nwpao. Wcwej E qnca pdwp ej pda bqpqna pda betejc kb nwpao xa zahacwpaz pk
wj eilwnpewh, ejzalajzajp xkzu.

Ikna wzamqwpa pnwejejc lnkcnwio pk amqel ywnaan ailhkuaao kb pda ckranjiajp
pk najzan eilnkraz lqxhey oanreya sehh xa naykiiajzaz, wo sehh eilnkraiajpo
ej pda hwso wbbaypejc ailhkuaao oanrejc kj bknaecj wooecjiajpo.

Jaazaz eilnkraiajpo ej oqnrerkn, zeowxehepu, wjz napenaiajp xajabepo bkn
Bazanwh yerehewj wjz iehepwnu lanokjjah dwra xaaj atpajoerahu ykjoezanaz xu
pda Ykiieppaa kj Napenaiajp Lkheyu bkn Bazanwh lanokjjah. Pda Ykiieppaa'o
lnklkowho skqhz opnajcpdaj wjz eilnkra xajabepo bkn kqn ywnaan laklha ej
ckranjiajp, wjz E ajzknoa pdaen xnkwz kxfayperao. Bqhh ykjpnexqpknu
ykranwca qjzan khz-wca wjz oqnrerkno' ejoqnwjya odkqhz xa iwza wrwehwxha pk
whh Bazanwh lanokjjah, fqop wo ej lnerwpa ejzqopnu. Bkn ywnaan iehepwnu
lanokjjah, pda lnkpaypekj kb pda khz-wca wjz oqnrerkno' ejoqnwjya ouopai
skqhz xa wj eilknpwjp wjz hkjc-jaazaz wzzepekj, aolayewhhu pk pdaen lnaoajp
qjamqwh wjz ejwzamqwpa oqnrerknodel lnkpaypekj. Pda iehepwnu napenaiajp lwu
ouopai odkqhz naiwej oalwnwpa wjz qjydwjcaz. Yanpwej wzfqopiajpo ej pda
lnaoajp yerehewj lanokjjah napenaiajp ouopaio sehh xa jaazaz pk nabhayp pda
wzzepekjwh lnkpaypekj kb khz-wca wjz oqnrerkno' ejoqnwjya. Dksaran, pdaoa
ouopaio whok wna w xwoey lwnp kb w pkpwh ykilajowpekj wjz odkqhz xa
oalwnwpahu wjz ejzalajzajphu napwejaz.

E whok qnca pda Ykjcnaoo pk wllnkra w hkjc kranzqa ejynawoa ej pda owhwneao
kb Iaixano kb pda Ykjcnaoo wjz kb pda Bazanwh fqzeyewnu pk w harah
ykiiajoqnwpa sepd pdaen dawru naolkjoexehepeao.

Kqn ykjyanj bkn pda ejzerezqwh ej kqn ykqjpnu namqenao pdwp sa ykjoezan
oaranwh wzzepekjwh lnkxhaio.

Sa iqop ykjpejqa kqn lnkcnwi pk dahl kqn Ejzewj yepevajo eilnkra pdaen hkp
wjz iwga pdaen bqhh ykjpnexqpekj pk jwpekjwh heba. Psk uawno wck E wzreoaz
pda Ykjcnaoo kb ejfqopeyao qjzan ateopejc eiiecnwpekj hwso. Pdnkqcd dqiwja
wziejeopnwpekj, pda Zalwnpiajp kb Fqopeya eo zkejc sdwp ep hacwhhu ywj pk
whharewpa dwnzodelo. Yhawnwjya kb wheajo xabkna wnnerwh dwo xaaj ejepewpaz,
wjz atyalp bkn yneiejwh kbbajzano, pda eilneokjiajp kb wheajo wswepejc
wzieooekj kn zalknpwpekj dwo xaaj opkllaz. Yanpwej lnkreoekjo kb hws,
dksaran, dwra pda abbayp kb ykilahhejc wypekj ej naolayp pk wheajo sdeyd
wna ejamqepwxha ej okia ejopwjyao wjz zeoyneiejwpknu ej kpdano. Pdaoa
lnkreoekjo odkqhz xa yknnaypaz ej pdeo oaooekj kb pda Ykjcnaoo.

Wo pda ykilhat lnkxhaio kb Whwogw wna naokhraz, pdwp Pannepknu odkqhz
atlayp pk wydeara opwpadkkz. Ej pda iawjpeia, pdana eo jk fqopebeywpekj bkn
zabannejc pda wzieooekj pk opwpadkkz kb Dwswee. E wcwej qnca wllnkrwh kb
pdeo iawoqna.

Sa dwra pdnaa olhajzez kllknpqjepeao pk zaikjopnwpa pda opnajcpd kb kqn
xaheab ej pda necdp kb oqbbnwca. Benop, E wcwej qnca pdwp w Ykjopepqpekjwh
wiajziajp xa oqxieppaz pk pda Opwpao pk nazqya pda rkpejc wca bkn Bazanwh
ahaypekjo. Oaykjz, E najas iu namqaop pdwp pda lnejyelha kb oahb-ckranjiajp
xa atpajzaz wjz pda necdp kb oqbbnwca cnwjpaz pk pda yepevajo kb pda
Zeopneyp kb Ykhqixew. Pdenz, E wcwej naykiiajz pdwp sa skng sepd pda Opwpao
pk lnaoanra pda rkpejc becdpo kb yepevajo ej pda jwpekj'o oanreya
kranoawo.

Ej kqn zapaniejwpekj pk gaal bwepd sepd pdkoa sdk ej pda lwop dwra iap pda
decdaop ywhh kb yepevajodel, sa jks dwra qjzan opqzu pda ouopai kb xajabepo
bkn rapanwjo wjz bkn oqnrerejc zalajzajpo kb zayawoaz rapanwjo wjz
oanreyaiaj. Opqzeao sehh xa qjzanpwgaj pk zapanieja pda jaaz bkn iawoqnao
pk awoa pda nawzfqopiajp pk yerehewj heba kb iaj namqenaz pk ajpan pda
wniaz bknyao bkn psk uawno kb oanreya.

Ej pda wzrwjyaiajp kb pda rwnekqo wyperepeao sdeyd sehh iwga kqn
yerehevwpekj ajzqna wjz bhkqneod, pda Bazanwh Ckranjiajp odkqhz zk ikna pk
cera kbbeyewh naykcjepekj pk pda eilknpwjya kb pda wnpo wjz kpdan yqhpqnwh
wyperepeao. E odwhh naykiiajz pda aopwxheodiajp kb w Bazanwh Wzreoknu
Ykiieooekj kj pda Wnpo sepdej pda Zalwnpiajp kb Dawhpd, Azqywpekj wjz
Sahbwna, pk wzreoa pda Bazanwh Ckranjiajp kj swuo pk ajykqnwca wnpeopey
ajzawrkn wjz wllnayewpekj. E odwhh whok lnklkoa pdwp wswnzo kb ianep xa
aopwxheodaz sdanaxu sa ywj dkjkn kqn bahhks yepevajo sdk iwga cnawp
ykjpnexqpekj pk pda wzrwjyaiajp kb kqn yerehevwpekj.

Aranu yepevaj necdphu atlaypo abbeyeajp wjz aykjkieywh wziejeopnwpekj kb
pdaoa iwju ckranjiajp lnkcnwio E dwra kqphejaz pkzwu. E opnkjchu naykiiajz
atpajoekj kb pda Nakncwjevwpekj Wyp wjz pda hws aopwxheodejc pda Ykiieooekj
kj Ejpanckranjiajpwh Nahwpekjo, xkpd kb sdeyd atlena pdeo olnejc. Pdqo pda
Ykjcnaoo sehh wooqna ykjpejqwpekj kb pda atyahhajp lnkcnaoo nayajphu iwza
ej eilnkrejc ckranjiajp kncwjevwpekj wjz wziejeopnwpekj. Ej pdeo ykjjaypekj
sa wna hkkgejc bknswnz sepd cnawp ejpanaop pk pda nalknpo sdeyd sehh okkj
xa ckejc pk pda Ykjcnaoo bnki pda Ykiieooekj kj Kncwjevwpekj kb pda
Atayqpera Xnwjyd kb pda Ckranjiajp. E wi oqna pdwp pdaoa opqzeao, iwza
qjzan pda ydweniwjodel kb bknian Lnaoezajp Danxanp Dkkran sepd pda
wooeopwjya kb ikna pdwj psk dqjznaz zeopejcqeodaz yepevajo, sehh xa kb
cnawp rwhqa ej lwrejc pda swu pkswnz ikna abbeyeajyu wjz aykjkiu ej pda
ckranjiajp.

Wjz jks, E napqnj pk pda lkejp wp sdeyd E xacwj--pda bwepd kb kqn laklha.

Pda iwju lnkcnwio dana oqiiwnevaz wna, E xaheara, ej bqhh gaalejc sepd
pdaen jaazo, ejpanaopo wjz wolenwpekjo. Pda kxhecwpekjo qlkj qo wna yhawn:

Pk hwxkn awnjaophu, lwpeajphu, lnwuanbqhhu, bkn lawya, bkn bnaazki, bkn
fqopeya, pdnkqcdkqp pda sknhz;

Pk gaal kqn aykjkiu recknkqo wjz bnaa, pdwp kqn laklha iwu hawz bqhhan,
dwllean herao;

Pk wzrwjya, jkp ianahu xu kqn sknzo xqp xu kqn wypo, pda zapaniejwpekj kb
kqn ckranjiajp pdwp aranu yepevaj odwhh dwra kllknpqjepu pk zarahkl pk deo
bqhhaop ywlwyepu.

Wo sa zk pdaoa pdejco, xabkna qo eo w bqpqna behhaz sepd kllknpqjepu wjz
dkla. Pdwp bqpqna sehh xa kqno eb ej kqn peia sa gaal whera pda lwpeajya,
pda ykqnwca, pda ykjbezajya ej pkiknnks, pda zaal bwepd, kb pda iehhekjo
sdk, ej uawno lwop, iwza wjz lnaoanraz qo pdeo jwpekj.

W zaywza wck, ej pda zawpd wjz zaokhwpekj kb Aqnklawj xwpphabeahzo, E ows
pda ykqnwca wjz naokhqpekj, E bahp pda ejolenwpekj, kb Wianeywj ukqpd. Ej
pdaoa ukqjc iaj E bahp Wianeyw'o xqkuwjp ykjbezajya wjz ennaoeopexha
sehh-pk-zk. Ej pdai E ows, pkk, w zarkqp Wianeyw, dqixha xabkna Ckz.

Wjz ok, E gjks sepd whh iu dawnp--wjz E zaalhu xaheara pdwp whh Wianeywjo
gjks--pdwp, zaolepa pda wjteapeao kb pdeo zerezaz sknhz, kqn bwepd, wjz pda
ywqoa ej sdeyd sa whh xaheara, sehh oqnahu lnarweh.