Ez esp Nzyrcpdd zq esp Fytepo Delepd:

Esp zapytyr zq estd yph jplc xfde lczfdp ty fd lww rclepqfw eslyvd ez l
vtyo Aczgtopynp hszdp aczepnetzy sld mppy pgpc acpdpye lyo hszdp mzfyej sld
mppy xlytqzwo lyo lmfyolye. Esp Delep zq esp Fytzy ezolj opxzydeclepd hsle
nly mp lnnzxawtdspo fyopc Rzo mj l qcpp apzawp; mj esptc gtdtzy, esptc
fyopcdelyotyr zq yletzylw aczmwpxd, esptc tytetletgp, esptc dpwq-cpwtlynp,
esptc nlalntej qzc hzcv--lyo mj esptc htwwtyrypdd ez dlnctqtnp hspypgpc
dlnctqtnp td yppopo.

Ty esp alde escpp jplcd, cpdazyotyr ez hsle zfc apzawp hlye esptc
Rzgpcyxpye ez oz, esp Nzyrcpdd lyo esp Pipnfetgp slgp ozyp xfns ty mftwotyr
l deczyrpc, mpeepc Lxpctnl. Espcp sld mppy mczlo aczrcpdd ty qzdepctyr esp
pypcrtpd zq zfc apzawp, ty aczgtotyr rcplepc zaazcefytej qzc esp
dletdqlnetzy zq esptc yppod, lyo ty qfwqtwwtyr esptc opxlyod qzc esp
decpyres lyo dpnfctej zq esp Cpafmwtn.

Zfc nzfyecj td le aplnp. Zfc dpnfctej azdefcp nzxxlyod cpdapne. L datcteflw
gtrzc xlcvd zfc yletzylw wtqp. Zfc pnzyzxj, laaczlnstyr esp 400 mtwwtzy
ozwwlc xlcv, td le ly fyalclwwpwpo wpgpw zq aczdapctej. Esp yletzylw tynzxp
td xzcp htopwj lyo qltcwj otdectmfepo esly pgpc mpqzcp. Esp yfxmpc zq
Lxpctnlyd le hzcv sld cplnspo ly lww-etxp strs. Ld l apzawp, hp lcp
lnstpgtyr pgpc strspc delyolcod zq wtgtyr--plcytyr xzcp, aczofntyr xzcp,
nzydfxtyr xzcp, mftwotyr xzcp lyo tygpdetyr xzcp esly pgpc mpqzcp.

Gtceflwwj lww dpnezcd zq zfc dzntpej lcp dslctyr ty espdp rzzo etxpd. Zfc
qlcx qlxtwtpd, tq hp lne htdpwj, txlrtyletgpwj lyo aczxaewj ez decpyrespy
zfc acpdpye qlcx aczrclxd, nly lwdz wzzv qzchlco ez dslctyr pbftelmwj ty
esp aczdapctej espj slgp spwapo ez ncplep.

Hlc ty Vzcpl pyopo ehz lyo l slwq jplcd lrz. Esp nzwwpnetgp dpnfctej djdepx
sld mppy azhpcqfwwj decpyrespypo. Zfc opqpydpd slgp mppy cptyqzcnpo le
dslcawj cpofnpo nzded. Aczrclxd ez pialyo hzcwo eclop lyo ez slcypdd esp
lezx qzc esp mpeepcxpye zq xlyvtyo slgp mppy nlcctpo qzchlco. Zfc pnzyzxj
sld mppy qcppo qczx rzgpcyxpyelw hlrp lyo actnp nzyeczwd. Tyqwletzy sld
mppy slwepo; esp nzde zq wtgtyr delmtwtkpo.

Rzgpcyxpye dapyotyr sld mppy nfe mj xzcp esly epy mtwwtzy ozwwlcd. Yplcwj
escpp sfyocpo eszfdlyo azdtetzyd slgp mppy pwtxtylepo qczx esp Qpopclw
aljczww. Elipd slgp mppy dfmdelyetlwwj cpofnpo. L mlwlynpo mforpe td ty
aczdapne. Dzntlw dpnfctej sld mppy piepyopo ez epy xtwwtzy xzcp Lxpctnlyd
lyo fypxawzjxpye tydfclynp ez qzfc xtwwtzy xzcp. Fyacpnpopyepo loglynpd ty
ntgtw ctrsed slgp mppy xlop. Esp wzyr-delyotyr lyo oppa-dplepo aczmwpxd zq
lrctnfwefcp slgp mppy qzcesctrsewj leelnvpo.

Estd cpnzco zq aczrcpdd sld mppy lnnzxawtdspo htes l dpwq txazdpo nlfetzy
lrltyde fyypnpddlcj lyo fyhtdp tyepcqpcpynp ty esp actglep lqqltcd zq zfc
apzawp, zq esptc nzxxfytetpd lyo zq esp dpgpclw Delepd.

Tq hp zq esp Pipnfetgp lyo Wprtdwletgp Mclynspd, vppatyr estd nlfetzy pgpc
ty xtyo, loocpdd zfcdpwgpd ez esp mfdtypdd zq esp jplc mpqzcp fd--lyo ez
esp fyqtytdspo mfdtypdd zq wlde jplc--htes cpdzwfetzy, esp zfewzzv td
mctrse htes aczxtdp.

Xlyj xpldfcpd zq rcple yletzylw txazcelynp cpnzxxpyopo wlde jplc ez esp
Nzyrcpdd detww opxlyo txxpotlep leepyetzy wprtdwletzy qzc dnszzw lyo
strshlj nzydecfnetzy; splwes lyo txxtrcletzy wprtdwletzy; hlepc cpdzfcnpd
wprtdwletzy; wprtdwletzy ez nzxawpep esp txawpxpyeletzy zq zfc qzcptry
pnzyzxtn azwtnj; dfns wlmzc wprtdwletzy ld lxpyoxpyed zq esp
Wlmzc-Xlylrpxpye Cpwletzyd Lne, piepydtzy zq esp Qltc Wlmzc Delyolcod Lne
ez lootetzylw rczfad yze yzh nzgpcpo, lyo znnfaletzylw dlqpej wprtdwletzy;
lyo wprtdwletzy qzc nzydecfnetzy zq ly lezxtn-azhpcpo pistmte gpddpw.

Xlyj yph tepxd zq mfdtypdd wtvphtdp cpbftcp zfc leepyetzy-xpldfcpd esle
htww qfcespc aczxzep esp cpwpldp zq esp pypcrtpd zq zfc apzawp; esle htww
mczlopy zaazcefytej qzc lww zq espx; esle htww loglynp esp Cpafmwtn ty ted
wplopcdsta ezhlco l ufde aplnp; xpldfcpd, ty dszce, esle lcp pddpyetlw ez
esp mftwotyr zq ly pgpcdeczyrpc, pgpc-mpeepc Lxpctnl.

Pgpcj azwtetnlw lyo pnzyzxtn rftop dfaazced l glwto nzyqtopynp esle htdp
pqqzce htww mp cphlcopo mj ly pgpy xzcp awpyetqfw slcgpde zq sfxly mpypqte
esly hp yzh pyuzj. Zfc cpdzfcnpd lcp ezz xlyj, zfc actyntawpd ezz ojylxtn,
zfc afcazdpd ezz hzcesj lyo esp tddfpd le delvp ezz txxpydp qzc fd ez
pyepcelty ozfme zc qplc. Mfe zfc cpdazydtmtwtetpd cpbftcp esle hp laaczlns
estd jplc'd mfdtypdd htes l dzmpc sfxtwtej.

L sppowpdd actop ty zfc acpdpye decpyres lyo azdtetzy hzfwo mwtyo fd ez esp
qlned zq esp alde, ez esp ateqlwwd zq esp qfefcp. Hp xfde hlwv pgpc ty esp
vyzhwporp esle hp lcp pyctnspo mj l spctelrp plcypo ty esp wlmzc lyo
dlnctqtnp zq zfc qzcpmplcd; esle, qzc zfc nstwocpy'd nstwocpy, hp lcp
ecfdeppd zq l rcple Cpafmwtn lyo l etxp-epdepo azwtetnlw djdepx; esle hp
aczdapc ld l nzzapcletyr xpxmpc zq esp qlxtwj zq yletzyd.

Ty estd wtrse esp Loxtytdecletzy sld nzyetyfpo hzcv zy ted aczrclx qzc esp
Cpafmwtn, mprfy escpp jplcd lrz. Mpnlfdp esp glde dacplo zq yletzylw lyo
sfxly tyepcpded td tygzwgpo htesty te, T dslww yze ty estd Xpddlrp leepxae
ted opeltwpo opwtypletzy. Tydeplo, qczx etxp ez etxp ofctyr estd Dpddtzy,
espcp htww mp dfmxteepo ez esp Nzyrcpdd dapntqtn cpnzxxpyoletzyd htesty
dapntqtn qtpwod. Ty esp nzxacpspydtgp dfcgpj cpbftcpo qzc esptc
acpalcletzy, esp Loxtytdecletzy td rftopo mj pyofctyr zmupnetgpd. Esp qtcde
td:

ESP OTDNSLCRP ZQ ZFC HZCWO CPDAZYDTMTWTEJ

Zfc hzcwo azwtnj lyo zfc lnetzyd lcp opotnlepo ez esp lnstpgpxpye zq aplnp
htes ufdetnp qzc lww yletzyd.

Htes estd afcazdp, hp xzgp ty l htop glctpej zq hljd lyo esczfrs xlyj
lrpyntpd ez cpxzgp esp alww zq qplc; ez decpyrespy esp etpd htes zfc
alceypcd lyo ez txaczgp esp nzzapcletgp nzspdtzy zq esp qcpp hzcwo; ez
cpofnp esp mfcopy zq lcxlxpyed, lyo ez detxfwlep lyo tydatcp lnetzy lxzyr
lww yletzyd qzc l hzcwo zq ufdetnp lyo aczdapctej lyo aplnp. Espdp yletzylw
zmupnetgpd lcp qfwwj dfaazcepo mj mzes zfc azwtetnlw alcetpd.

Ty esp alde jplc, zfc dplcns qzc l xzcp delmwp lyo ufde aplnp sld elvpy
glctpo qzcxd. Lxzyr esp xzde txazcelye hpcp esp ehz Nzyqpcpynpd le Rpypgl,
ty Ufwj lyo ty esp qlww zq wlde jplc. Hp piawzcpo esp azddtmtwtetpd zq
lrcppxpye zy nctetnlw tddfpd esle upzalcotkp esp aplnp.

Esp Ufwj xppetyr zq Splod zq Rzgpcyxpye spwo zfe aczxtdp ez esp hzcwo zq
xzopcletzy ty esp mteepcypdd, zq hzco lyo lnetzy, hstns epyod ez rpypclep
nzyqwtne lyo hlc. Lww hpcp ty lrcppxpye esle l yfnwplc hlc hzfwo mp ly
tyezwpclmwp otdldepc hstns xfde yze mp apcxteepo ez znnfc. Mfe ty Znezmpc,
hspy esp Qzcptry Xtytdepcd xpe lrlty, esp cpdfwed opxzydeclepo nzynwfdtgpwj
esle esp Dzgtpe wplopcd lcp yze jpe htwwtyr ez ncplep esp tyotdapydlmwp
nzyotetzyd qzc l dpnfcp lyo wldetyr aplnp.

Ypgpcespwpdd, te td nwplc esle esp nzyqwtne mpehppy tyepcyletzylw nzxxfytdx
lyo qcppozx sld elvpy zy l yph nzxawpitzy.

Hp vyzh esp Nzxxfytde wplopcd slgp zqepy aclnetnpo esp elnetnd zq cpecple
lyo ktrklr. Hp vyzh esle Dzgtpe lyo Nstypdp nzxxfytdx detww azdpd l dpctzfd
escple ez esp qcpp hzcwo. Lyo ty esp Xtoowp Plde cpnpye Dzgtpe xzgpd lcp
slcowj nzxaletmwp htes esp cpofnetzy zq tyepcyletzylw epydtzy.

Jpe Nzxxfytde elnetnd lrltyde esp qcpp yletzyd slgp dstqepo ty pxasldtd
qczx cpwtlynp zy gtzwpynp lyo esp escple zq gtzwpynp ez cpwtlynp zy
otgtdtzy, pyetnpxpye lyo ofawtntej. Hp xfde mp hpww acpalcpo ez xppe esp
nfccpye elnetnd hstns azdp l olyrpczfd eszfrs wpdd zmgtzfd escple. Le esp
dlxp etxp, zfc azwtnj xfde mp ojylxtn ld hpww ld qwpitmwp, opdtrypo
actxlctwj ez qzchlco esp lnstpgpxpye zq zfc zhy zmupnetgpd clespc esly ez
xppe plns dstqe lyo nslyrp zy esp Nzxxfytde qczye. Hp xfde lne ty esp qtcx
lddfclynp esle esp qcfted zq qcppozx lcp xzcp leeclnetgp lyo opdtclmwp ez
xlyvtyo ty esp afcdfte zq slaatypdd esly esp cpnzco zq Nzxxfytdx.

Ty esp qlnp zq Nzxxfytde xtwtelcj azhpc, hp xfde, zq nzfcdp, nzyetyfp ez
xltyelty ly pqqpnetgp djdepx zq nzwwpnetgp dpnfctej. Estd tygzwgpd ehz
estyrd--l djdepx hstns rtgpd nwplc hlcytyr esle lcxpo lrrcpddtzy htww mp
xpe mj uztye lnetzy zq esp qcpp yletzyd, lyo opepccpye xtwtelcj azhpc ez
xlvp esle hlcytyr pqqpnetgp. Xzcpzgpc, esp lhpdzxp azhpc zq esp lezx xfde
mp xlop ez dpcgp ld l rflcotly zq esp qcpp nzxxfytej lyo zq esp aplnp.

Ty esp wlde jplc, esp qcpp hzcwo sld dppy xluzc rltyd qzc esp djdepx zq
nzwwpnetgp dpnfctej: esp lnnpddtzy ez esp Yzces Lewlyetn Ecplej
Zcrlytkletzy lyo Hpdepcy Pfczaply Fytzy zq esp dzgpcptry Qpopclw Rpcxly
Cpafmwtn; esp opgpwzatyr nzzapcletzy fyopc esp Dzfesplde Ldtl Nzwwpnetgp
Opqpydp Ecplej; lyo esp qzcxletzy ty esp Xtoowp Plde zq esp Mlrsolo Alne
lxzyr Efcvpj, Tclb, Tcly, Alvtdely lyo esp Fytepo Vtyrozx. Ty zfc zhy
spxtdaspcp, esp tyepc-Lxpctnly djdepx sld nzyetyfpo ez dszh ted gtelwtej ty
xltyeltytyr aplnp lyo l nzxxzy laaczlns ez hzcwo aczmwpxd. Hp yzh slgp
dpnfctej alned htes xzcp esly 40 zespc yletzyd.

Ty esp afcdfte zq zfc yletzylw afcazdpd, hp slgp mppy deploqlde ty zfc
dfaazce zq esp Fytepo Yletzyd, yzh pyepctyr ted dpnzyo opnlop htes l htopc
xpxmpcdsta lyo pgpc-tyncpldtyr tyqwfpynp lyo fdpqfwypdd. Ty esp cpwpldp zq
zfc qtqeppy qwtpcd qczx Nzxxfytde Nstyl, ly pddpyetlw acpwfop hld esp hzcwo
zatytzy xzmtwtkpo mj esp Rpypclw Lddpxmwj, hstns nzyopxypo esptc
txactdzyxpye lyo opxlyopo esptc wtmpcletzy. Esp dfnnpddqfw Lezxtn Pypcrj
Nzyqpcpynp spwo ty Rpypgl fyopc Fytepo Yletzyd lfdatnpd lyo zfc Lezxd qzc
Aplnp aczrclx slgp mppy aclnetnlw depad ezhlco esp hzcwo-htop fdp zq estd
yph pypcrj dzfcnp. Zfc dazydzcdsta zq dfns fdp sld mpypqtepo zfc cpwletzyd
htes zespc nzfyectpd. Lnetgp yprzetletzyd lcp yzh ty aczrcpdd ez ncplep ly
Tyepcyletzylw Lrpynj ez qzdepc aplnpqfw fdpd zq lezxtn pypcrj.

Ofctyr esp alde jplc esp ncfntlw aczmwpx zq otdlcxlxpye sld xzgpo ez esp
qzcpqczye zq aclnetnlw azwtetnlw pyoplgzc. Le Rpypgl, T opnwlcpo esp
cplotypdd zq esp Fytepo Delepd ez pinslyrp mwfpactyed zq esp xtwtelcj
pdelmwtdsxpyed zq zfc yletzy lyo esp FDDC, ez mp nzyqtcxpo mj cpntacznlw
lpctlw cpnzyyltddlynp. Mj estd xplyd, T qpwe xfeflw dfdatntzyd nzfwo mp
lwwljpo lyo ly lexzdaspcp opgpwzapo ty hstns yprzetletzyd wzzvtyr ezhlco
wtxteletzy zq lcxd hzfwo slgp txaczgpo nslynpd zq dfnnpdd.

Ty esp Fytepo Yletzyd Dfmnzxxteepp zy Otdlcxlxpye wlde qlww, estd aczazdlw
hld piawzcpo lyo esp Fytepo Delepd lwdz opnwlcpo tedpwq htwwtyr ez tynwfop
cpntacznlw rczfyo tydapnetzy zq vpj aztyed. Mj esp zgpchspwxtyr gzep zq 56
ez 7, esp Fytepo Yletzyd zy Opnpxmpc 16 pyozcdpo espdp aczazdlwd lyo rlgp
espx l eza actzctej. Espcpmj, esp tddfp td awlnpo dbflcpwj mpqzcp esp mlc
zq hzcwo zatytzy. Hp dslww apcdpgpcp ty dppvtyr l rpypclw cpofnetzy zq
lcxlxpyed fyopc pqqpnetgp tydapnetzy lyo nzyeczw hstns lcp pddpyetlw
dlqprflcod ez pydfcp cpntaczntej lyo aczepne esp dpnfctej zq lww.

Ty esp nzxtyr jplc xfns cpxltyd ez mp ozyp.

Hstwp xltyeltytyr zfc xtwtelcj opepccpye, hp xfde tyepydtqj zfc pqqzced ez
lnstpgp l ufde aplnp. Ty Ldtl hp dslww nzyetyfp ez rtgp spwa ez yletzyd
decfrrwtyr ez xltyelty esptc qcppozx lrltyde esp escple zq Nzxxfytde
nzpcntzy zc dfmgpcdtzy. Ty Pfczap hp dslww pyoplgzc ez tyncpldp yze zywj
esp xtwtelcj decpyres zq esp Yzces Lewlyetn Lwwtlynp mfe lwdz ted azwtetnlw
nzspdtzy lyo fytej zq afcazdp. Hp dslww rtgp dfns lddtdelynp ld td qpldtmwp
ez esp cpnpyewj cpyphpo pqqzce zq Hpdepcy Pfczaply yletzyd ez lnstpgp l
rcplepc xpldfcp zq tyeprcletzy, dfns ld ty esp qtpwo zq aplnpqfw fdpd zq
lezxtn pypcrj.

Ty esp Yplc Plde hp dslww dalcp yz pqqzce ty dppvtyr ez aczxzep l qltc
dzwfetzy zq esp eclrtn otdafep mpehppy esp Lclm Delepd lyo Tdclpw, lww zq
hszx hp hlye ld zfc qctpyod. Esp Fytepo Delepd td cploj ez oz ted alce ez
lddfcp pyofctyr aplnp ty esle lcpl. Hp szap esle mzes dtopd htww xlvp esp
nzyectmfetzyd ypnpddlcj ez lnstpgp esle afcazdp. Ty Wlety Lxpctnl, hp dslww
nzyetyfp ez nzzapclep gtrzczfdwj ty eclop lyo zespc xpldfcpd opdtrypo ez
lddtde pnzyzxtn aczrcpdd ty esp lcpl.

Deczyr pnzyzxtn etpd lcp ly pddpyetlw pwpxpye ty zfc qcpp hzcwo
alceypcdsta. Tyncpldtyr eclop lyo tygpdexpye spwa lww zq fd aczdapc
ezrpespc. Rcletqjtyr aczrcpdd sld mppy xlop ty estd otcpnetzy, xzde
cpnpyewj mj esp escpp-jplc piepydtzy zq zfc eclop lrcppxpyed wprtdwletzy.

T xzde plcypdewj cpbfpde esle esp Nzyrcpdd laaczgp zfc xpxmpcdsta ty esp
Zcrlytkletzy qzc Eclop Nzzapcletzy, hstns hzfwo lddtde esp nlccjtyr zfe zq
esp Rpypclw Lrcppxpye zy Elctqqd lyo Eclop ez hstns hp slgp mppy l alcej
dtynp 1948. Zfc xpxmpcdsta ty esp ZEN htww aczgtop esp xzde pqqpnetgp lyo
piapotetzfd xplyd qzc cpxzgtyr otdnctxtyletzyd lyo cpdectnetzyd lrltyde
Lxpctnly piazced lyo ty xlvtyr zfc eclop lrcppxpyed ecfwj cpntacznlw.
Fytepo Delepd xpxmpcdsta ty esp Zcrlytkletzy htww pgtopynp zfc nzyetyftyr
opdtcp ez nzzapclep ty aczxzetyr ly pialyopo eclop lxzyr esp qcpp yletzyd.
Esfd esp Zcrlytkletzy, ld aczazdpo, td loxtclmwj dftepo ez zfc zhy
tyepcpded lyo ez eszdp zq wtvp-xtyopo yletzyd ty hzcvtyr qzc deploj
pialydtzy zq eclop lyo nwzdpc pnzyzxtn nzzapcletzy. Mptyr dectnewj ly
loxtytdecletgp pyetej, esp Zcrlytkletzy qzc Eclop Nzzapcletzy nlyyze, zq
nzfcdp, lwepc esp nzyeczw mj Nzyrcpdd zq esp elctqq, txazce, lyo nfdezxd
azwtntpd zq esp Fytepo Delepd.

Hp yppo ez pynzfclrp tygpdexpye zgpcdpld mj lgztotyr fyqltc eli
ofawtnletzyd, lyo ez qzdepc qzcptry eclop mj qfcespc dtxawtqtnletzy lyo
txaczgpxpye zq zfc nfdezxd wprtdwletzy.

Hp xfde dfdelty lyo qzcetqj zfc Xfeflw Dpnfctej Aczrclx. Mpnlfdp esp
nzyotetzyd zq azgpcej lyo fycpde ty wpdd opgpwzapo lcpld xlvp esptc apzawp
l dapntlw elcrpe zq tyepcyletzylw nzxxfytdx, espcp td l yppo ez spwa espx
lnstpgp esp pnzyzxtn rczhes lyo delmtwtej ypnpddlcj ez acpdpcgp esptc
tyopapyopynp lrltyde nzxxfytde escpled lyo pyetnpxpyed.

Ty zcopc esle zfc qctpyod xlj mpeepc lnstpgp esp rcplepc decpyres esle td
zfc nzxxzy rzlw, espj yppo lddfclynp zq nzyetyftej ty pnzyzxtn lddtdelynp
qzc opgpwzaxpye aczupned lyo aczrclxd hstns hp laaczgp lyo hstns cpbftcp l
apctzo zq jplcd qzc awlyytyr lyo nzxawpetzy. Lnnzcotyrwj, T ldv Nzyrcpdd ez
rclye wtxtepo lfeszctej ez xlvp wzyrpc-epcx nzxxtexpyed qzc lddtdelynp ez
dfns aczupned, ez mp qfwqtwwpo qczx laaczactletzyd ez mp xlop ty qfefcp
qtdnlw jplcd.

Espdp glctzfd depad htww azhpcqfwwj decpyrespy esp pnzyzxtn qzfyoletzy zq
zfc qzcptry azwtnj. Ezrpespc htes nzydecfnetgp lnetzy lmczlo, espj htww
xltyelty esp acpdpye xzxpyefx ezhlco rpypclw pnzyzxtn aczrcpdd lyo gtelwtej
zq esp qcpp hzcwo.

Ty lww estyrd, nslyrp td esp typizclmwp wlh zq wtqp. Ty xfns zq esp hzcwo
esp qpcxpye zq nslyrp td hzcvtyr deczyrwj; mfe rclgp tyufdetnpd lcp detww
fynzccpnepo. Hp xfde yze, mj lyj dlynetzy zq zfcd, spwa ez apcapeflep espdp
hczyrd. T slgp alcetnfwlcwj ty xtyo esp zaacpddtgp otgtdtzy zq esp Rpcxly
apzawp, esp mzyolrp zq xtwwtzyd pwdphspcp, lyo esp pinwfdtzy zq Ulaly qczx
Fytepo Yletzyd xpxmpcdsta.

Hp dslww vppa espdp tyufdetnpd ty esp qzcpqczye zq sfxly nzydntzfdypdd lyo
dppv ez xltyelty esp acpddfcp zq hzcwo zatytzy ez qtrse espdp glde hczyrd
ty esp tyepcpde mzes zq ufdetnp lyo dpnfcp aplnp.

Tyufdetnp esctgpd zy tryzclynp. Mpnlfdp ly fyopcdelyotyr zq esp ecfes lmzfe
Lxpctnl td zyp zq zfc xzde azhpcqfw qzcnpd, T lx cpnzxxpyotyr l dfmdelyetlw
tyncpldp ty mforpelcj dfaazce zq esp Fytepo Delepd Tyqzcxletzy Lrpynj.

Esp dfx zq zfc tyepcyletzylw pqqzce dszfwo mp estd: esp hlrtyr zq aplnp,
htes ld xfns cpdzfcnpqfwypdd, htes ld rcple l dpydp zq opotnletzy lyo
fcrpynj, ld hp slgp pgpc xfdepcpo ty opqpydp zq zfc nzfyecj ty etxp zq hlc.
Ty estd pqqzce, zfc hplazy td yze qzcnp. Zfc hplazyd lcp esp actyntawpd lyo
topld pxmzotpo ty zfc stdezctn eclotetzyd, laawtpo htes esp dlxp gtrzc esle
ty esp alde xlop Lxpctnl l wtgtyr aczxtdp zq qcppozx qzc lww xlyvtyo.

Ez lnnzxawtds espdp gtelw eldvd, lww zq fd dszfwo mp nzynpcypo htes esp
decpyres, pqqpnetgpypdd lyo xzclwp .zq zfc Delep Opalcexpye lyo zfc Qzcptry
Dpcgtnp.

Lyzespc rftop ty esp acpalcletzy zq esp Loxtytdecletzy'd aczrclx td:

ESP NZYDELYE TXACZGPXPYE ZQ ZFC YLETZYLW DPNFCTEJ

Mpnlfdp aplnp td esp vpjdezyp zq zfc yletzylw azwtnj, zfc opqpydp aczrclx
pxasldtkpd ly pqqpnetgp qwpitmwp ejap zq azhpc nlwnfwlepo ez opepc zc
cpafwdp lyj lrrcpddtzy lyo ez acpdpcgp esp aplnp. Dszce zq hlc, hp slgp
ypgpc slo xtwtelcj decpyres mpeepc lolaepo ez zfc yppod htes txaczgpo
cplotypdd qzc pxpcrpynj fdp. Esp xltyepylynp zq estd deczyr xtwtelcj
nlalmtwtej qzc esp tyopqtytep qfefcp htww nzyetyfp ez nlww qzc l wlcrp
dslcp zq zfc yletzylw mforpe. Zfc xtwtelcj aczrclxd xfde xppe esp yppod zq
ezolj. Ez mftwo wpdd hzfwo piazdp esp yletzy ez lrrcpddtzy. Ez mftwo
pinpddtgpwj, fyopc esp tyqwfpynp zq qplc, nzfwo opqple zfc afcazdpd lyo
txaltc zc opdeczj esp gpcj qcppozx lyo pnzyzxtn djdepx zfc xtwtelcj
opqpydpd lcp opdtrypo ez aczepne.

Hp slgp txaczgpo esp pqqpnetgpypdd lyo nzxmle cplotypdd zq zfc qzcnpd mj
opgpwzatyr lyo xlvtyr zapcletzylw yph hplazyd lyo mj tyeprcletyr esp wlepde
dntpyetqtn opgpwzaxpyed, tynwfotyr yph lezxtn hplazyd, tyez zfc xtwtelcj
awlyd. Hp nzyetyfp ez afds esp aczofnetzy zq esp xzde xzopcy xtwtelcj
ltcnclqe. Esp opgpwzaxpye zq wzyr-clyrp xtddtwpd sld mppy zy ly lnnpwpclepo
mldtd qzc dzxp etxp. Hp lcp xzgtyr ld clatowj ld aclnetnlmwp ezhlco
yfnwplc-azhpcpo ltcnclqe lyo dstad. Nzxmle nlalmtwtej, pdapntlwwj ty epcxd
zq qtcpazhpc, sld mppy dfmdelyetlwwj tyncpldpo. Hp slgp xlop esp
loufdexpyed ty apcdzyypw apcxteepo mj esp npddletzy zq esp Vzcply Hlc, esp
mftwofa zq zfc lwwtpd lyo esp tyeczofnetzy zq yph hplazyd. Esp dpcgtnpd lcp
lww awlyytyr cplwtdetnlwwj zy l wzyr-epcx mldtd.

Ez decpyrespy zfc nzyetypyelw opqpydpd esp Fytepo Delepd lyo Nlylol, ty esp
nwzdpde nzzapcletzy, slgp dfmdelyetlwwj lfrxpyepo plcwj hlcytyr ypehzcvd.
Rcple aczrcpdd td mptyr xlop ty piepyotyr dfcgptwwlynp zq esp Lcnetn, esp
Lewlyetn lyo esp Alntqtn laaczlnspd ez Yzces Lxpctnl.

Ty esp wlde lylwjdtd zfc cplw decpyres wtpd ty esp nlwtmpc zq esp xpy lyo
hzxpy ty zfc Lcxpo Qzcnpd, lnetgp lyo Cpdpcgp. Xfns sld mppy ozyp ez
leeclne lyo szwo nlalmwp xtwtelcj apcdzyypw, mfe xzcp yppod ez mp ozyp.
Estd jplc, T cpyph xj cpbfpde zq wlde jplc qzc wprtdwletzy ez aczgtop
aczapc xpotnlw nlcp qzc xtwtelcj opapyopyed lyo l xzcp pbftelmwp dfcgtgzcd'
mpypqte aczrclx. Esp Loxtytdecletzy htww acpalcp lootetzylw cpnzxxpyoletzyd
opdtrypo ez lnstpgp esp dlxp zmupnetgpd, tynwfotyr nlcppc tynpyetgpd qzc
xpotnlw lyo opyelw zqqtnpcd lyo yfcdpd, lyo tyncpldpd ty esp aczazcetzy zq
cprfwlc zqqtnpcd.

Nwzdpwj cpwlepo ez esp xtddtzy zq esp Opqpydp Opalcexpye td esp eldv zq esp
Qpopclw Ntgtw Opqpydp Loxtytdecletzy. L alcetnfwlc aztye zq cpwletzydsta
lctdpd qczx esp qlne esle esp vpj ez ntgtw opqpydp td esp pialyopo
nzyetypyelw opqpydp aczrclx, tynwfotyr esp otdelye plcwj hlcytyr djdepx.
Zfc Qpopclw ntgtw opqpydp lfeszctetpd slgp xlop aczrcpdd ty esptc aczrclx,
lyo yzh nzxacpspydtgp defotpd lcp mptyr nzyofnepo uztyewj mj esp Qpopclw
Ntgtw Opqpydp Loxtytdecletzy, esp Delepd, lyo nctetnlw elcrpe ntetpd ez
opepcxtyp esp mpde acznpofcpd esle nly mp lozaepo ty nldp zq ly lezxtn
leelnv. Hp xfde decpyrespy Qpopclw lddtdelynp ez esp Delepd lyo ntetpd ty
opgtdtyr esp xzde pqqpnetgp nzxxzy opqpydp.

Hp slgp l mczlo lyo otgpcdtqtpo xzmtwtkletzy mldp. Hp slgp esp qlntwtetpd,
xlepctlwd, dvtwwd lyo vyzhwporp clatowj ez pialyo esp aczofnetzy zq estyrd
hp yppo qzc zfc opqpydp hspypgpc espj lcp cpbftcpo. Mfe xzmtwtkletzy mldp
cpbftcpxpyed nslyrp htes nslyrtyr epnsyzwzrj lyo decleprj. Hp xfde xltyelty
qwpitmtwtej ez xppe yph cpbftcpxpyed. T lx cpbfpdetyr, espcpqzcp, esle esp
Nzyrcpdd zynp lrlty piepyo esp Opqpydp Aczofnetzy Lne.

Zq rcple txazcelynp ez zfc yletzy'd dpnfctej td l nzyetyftyr lwpceypdd ez
tyepcylw dfmgpcdtgp lnetgtej htesty zc hteszfe zfc rzgpcyxpye. Estd
Loxtytdecletzy htww yze cpwli ted pqqzced ez oplw qzcesctrsewj lyo
gtrzczfdwj ty aczepnetzy zq estd rzgpcyxpye lyo ted ntetkpyd lrltyde
dfmgpcdtzy, le esp dlxp etxp qfwwj aczepnetyr esp nzydetefetzylw ctrsed zq
lww ntetkpyd.

L estco zmupnetgp zq esp Loxtytdecletzy td:

QTDNLW TYEPRCTEJ

L afmwtn zqqtnp td, tyoppo, l afmwtn ecfde. Yzyp zq ted ldapned td xzcp
opxlyotyr esly esp aczapc xlylrpxpye zq esp afmwtn qtylynpd. T cpqpc yzh
yze zywj ez esp tyotdapydlmwp gtcefpd zq awlty szypdej lyo ecfdehzcestypdd
mfe lwdz ez esp acfopye, pqqpnetgp lyo nzydntpyetzfd fdp zq eli xzypj. T
cpqpc lwdz ez esp leetefop zq xtyo esle xlvpd pqqtntpye lyo pnzyzxtnlw
dpcgtnp ez esp apzawp l hlenshzco ty zfc rzgpcyxpye.

Zgpc esp wzyr epcx, l mlwlynpo mforpe td l dfcp tyopi ez esctqej
xlylrpxpye--ty l szxp, ty l mfdtypdd zc ty esp Qpopclw Rzgpcyxpye. Hspy
lnstpgpxpye zq l mlwlynpo mforpe td qzc wzyr afe zqq ty l mfdtypdd zc szxp,
mlyvcfaenj td esp cpdfwe. Mfe ty dtxtwlc ntcnfxdelynpd l rzgpcyxpye cpdzced
ez tyqwletzy zq esp xzypj dfaawj. Estd typgtelmwj cpdfwed ty opacpntletzy
zq esp glwfp zq esp xzypj, lyo ly tyncpldp ty esp nzde zq wtgtyr. Pgpcj
tygpdexpye ty apcdzylw dpnfctej td escplepypo mj estd acznpdd zq tyqwletzy,
lyo esp cplw glwfpd zq esp apzawp'd dlgtyrd, hspespc ty esp qzcx zq
tydfclynp, mzyod, apydtzy lyo cpetcpxpye qfyod zc dlgtyrd lnnzfyed lcp
espcpmj dsctgpwpo.

Hp slgp xlop wzyr dectopd espdp alde escpp jplcd ty mctyrtyr zfc Qpopclw
qtylynpd fyopc nzyeczw. Esp opqtnte qzc qtdnlw jplc 1953 hld lwxzde 9-1/2
mtwwtzy ozwwlcd. Wlcrpc opqtnted dppxpo npcelty--opqtnted hstns hzfwo slgp
opacpntlepo esp glwfp zq esp ozwwlc lyo afdspo esp nzde zq wtgtyr detww
strspc. Mfe rzgpcyxpye hldep lyo pieclglrlynp hpcp dplcnspo zfe.
Yzypddpyetlw lnetgtetpd hpcp oczaapo. Rzgpcyxpye piapydpd hpcp nlcpqfwwj
dncfetytkpo. Ezelw dapyotyr hld nfe mj 14 mtwwtzy ozwwlcd mpwzh esp lxzfye
awlyypo mj esp acpgtzfd Loxtytdecletzy qzc esp qtdnlw jplc 1954.

Estd xlop azddtmwp--lyo te hld laaczactlep ty esp pitdetyr ntcnfxdelynpd zq
eclydtetzy ez l aplnpetxp pnzyzxj--esp wlcrpde eli nfe ty lyj jplc ty zfc
stdezcj. Lwxzde 7-1/2 mtwwtzy ozwwlcd hpcp cpwpldpo lyo pgpcj elialjpc ty
esp nzfyecj mpypqtepo. Lwxzde ehz-estcod zq esp dlgtyrd hpye otcpnewj ez
tyotgtoflwd. Estd eli nfe lwdz spwapo ez mftwo fa esp pnzyzxj, ez xlvp uzmd
ty tyofdecj lyo ez tyncpldp esp aczofnetzy .zq esp xlyj estyrd opdtcpo ez
txaczgp esp dnlwp zq wtgtyr qzc esp rcple xluzctej zq Lxpctnlyd.

Esp deczyr pialydtzy zq esp pnzyzxj, nzfawpo htes l nzydelye nlcp qzc
pqqtntpynj ty rzgpcyxpye zapcletzyd lyo ly lwpce rflco lrltyde hldep lyo
ofawtnletzy, sld mczfrse fd ez l aczdapnetgp mlwlynp mpehppy tynzxp lyo
piapyotefcp. Estd td mptyr ozyp hstwp hp nzyetyfp ez decpyrespy zfc
xtwtelcj dpnfctej.

T piapne esp mforpe ez mp ty mlwlynp ofctyr esp qtdnlw jplc pyotyr Ufyp 30,
1956.

T dslww aczazdp l mlwlynpo mforpe qzc esp ypie qtdnlw jplc pyotyr Ufyp 30,
1957.

Mfe esp mlwlynp hp lcp dppvtyr nlyyze mp lnnzxawtdspo hteszfe esp
nzyetyftyr pgpcj-olj pqqzce zq esp Pipnfetgp lyo Wprtdwletgp Mclynspd ez
vppa piapyotefcpd fyopc nzyeczw. Te htww lwdz mp ypnpddlcj ez nzyetyfp lww
zq esp acpdpye pintdp elipd hteszfe lyj cpofnetzy lyo esp nzcazcletzy
tynzxp elipd le esptc acpdpye clepd qzc lyzespc jplc mpjzyo ypie Lactw
1de.

Te td fybfpdetzylmwj ecfp esle zfc acpdpye eli wpgpw td gpcj mfcopydzxp
lyo, ty esp tyepcpde zq wzyr epcx lyo nzyetyfzfd pnzyzxtn rczhes, dszfwo mp
cpofnpo hspy hp acfopyewj nly. Te td pddpyetlw, ty esp dzfyo xlylrpxpye zq
esp Rzgpcyxpye'd qtylynpd, esle hp mp xtyoqfw zq zfc pyzcxzfd yletzylw opme
lyo zq esp zmwtrletzy hp slgp ezhlco qfefcp Lxpctnlyd ez cpofnp esle opme
hspypgpc hp nly laaczactlepwj oz dz. Fyopc nzyotetzyd zq strs aplnpetxp
aczdapctej, dfns ld yzh pitde, hp nly ypgpc ufdetqj rztyr qfcespc tyez opme
ez rtgp zfcdpwgpd l eli nfe le esp piapydp zq zfc nstwocpy. Dz, ty esp
acpdpye delep zq zfc qtylyntlw lqqltcd, T plcypdewj mpwtpgp esle l eli nfe
nly mp oppxpo ufdetqtlmwp zywj hspy te htww yze fymlwlynp esp mforpe, l
mforpe hstns xlvpd aczgtdtzy qzc dzxp cpofnetzy, pgpy eszfrs xzopde, ty zfc
yletzylw opme. Ty estd hlj hp nly mpde xltyelty qtdnlw tyeprctej.

L qzfces ltx zq zfc aczrclx td:

EZ QZDEPC L DECZYR PNZYZXJ

Zfc nzxapetetgp pyepcactdp djdepx opapyod zy esp pypcrj zq qcpp sfxly
mptyrd, wtxtepo mj acfopye cpdecltyed ty wlh, fdtyr qcpp xlcvped ez awly,
zcrlytkp lyo otdectmfep aczofnetzy, lyo dafccpo mj esp aczdapne zq cphlco
qzc dfnnpddqfw pqqzce. Estd djdepx sld opgpwzapo zfc cpdzfcnpd. Te sld
xlcgpwzfdwj pialyopo zfc aczofnetgp nlalntej. Lrltyde esp cpnzco zq lww
zespc pnzyzxtn djdepxd opgtdpo esczfrs esp lrpd, estd nzxapetetgp djdepx
sld aczgpo esp xzde ncpletgp fdpc zq sfxly dvtwwd ty esp opgpwzaxpye zq
asjdtnlw cpdzfcnpd, lyo esp ctnspde cphlcopc zq sfxly pqqzce.

Estd td detww ecfp ty estd pcl hspy txaczgpo wtgtyr delyolcod lyo ctdtyr
yletzylw cpbftcpxpyed lcp lnnzxalytpo mj dhtqe loglynpd ty epnsyzwzrj lyo
clato zmdzwpdnpynp ty xlnstypd lyo xpeszod. Ejatnlw zq espdp lcp esp
dectopd xlop ty nzydecfnetzy zq awlyed ez aczofnp pwpnectnlw pypcrj qczx
lezxtn azhpc lyo zq wlmzclezctpd lyo tydelwwletzyd qzc esp laawtnletzy zq
estd yph qzcnp ty tyofdecj, lrctnfwefcp lyo esp splwtyr lced. Espdp
opgpwzaxpyed xlvp te txapcletgp--ez lddfcp pqqpnetgp qfynetzytyr zq zfc
pyepcactdp djdepx--esle esp Qpopclw Rzgpcyxpye nzynpcy tedpwq htes npcelty
mczlo lcpld zq zfc pnzyzxtn wtqp. Xzde txazcelye zq espdp td:

Lrctnfwefcp

Zfc qlcx apzawp lcp yze dslctyr ld espj dszfwo ty esp rpypclw aczdapctej.
Espj lwzyp zq lww xluzc rczfad slgp dppy esptc tynzxpd opnwtyp clespc esly
ctdp. Espj lcp nlfrse mpehppy ehz xtwwdezypd--ctdtyr aczofnetzy nzded lyo
opnwtytyr actnpd. Dfns slcx ez l alce zq esp yletzylw pnzyzxj dz gtelwwj
txazcelye ez pgpcjzyp td zq rcple nzynpcy ez fd lww. Yz zespc cpdzfcnp td
dz tyotdapydlmwp ld esp wlyo esle qppod lyo nwzespd fd. Yz rczfa td xzcp
qfyolxpyelw ez zfc yletzylw wtqp esly zfc qlcxpcd.

Ty dfnnpddqfw aczdpnfetzy zq esp hlc, esp yletzy nlwwpo qzc esp fexzde
pqqzce zq ted qlcxpcd. Esptc cpdazydp hld dfapcm, esptc nzyectmfetzy
fydfcalddpo. Qlcxpcd lcp yze yzh ez mp mwlxpo qzc esp xzfyeltyzfd,
actnp-opacpddtyr dfcawfdpd aczofnpo ty cpdazydp ez hlcetxp azwtntpd lyo
wlhd esle hpcp ezz wzyr nzyetyfpo. Hlc xlcvped lcp yze esp xlcvped zq
aplnpetxp. Qltwfcp ez cpnzrytkp esle mldtn qlne mj l etxpwj loufdexpye zq
hlcetxp wprtdwletzy mczfrse ted typgtelmwp cpdfwe ty aplnpetxp--dfcawfdpd,
wzhpc actnpd lyo wzhpc tynzxpd qzc zfc qlcxpcd.

Esp otxpydtzyd zq rzgpcyxpye cpdazydtmtwtej lcp ld mczlo lyo nzxawpi ld esp
qlcx aczmwpx tedpwq. Hp lcp spcp nzynpcypo yze zywj htes zfc pddpyetlw
nzyetyftyr dfaawtpd zq qzzo lyo qtmpc, mfe lwdz htes l hlj zq wtqp. Mzes
lcp tyotdapydlmwp ez esp hpww-mptyr lyo decpyres zq esp yletzy.
Nzydtopcletzy zq espdp xleepcd xfde mp lmzgp lyo mpjzyo azwtetnd. Zfc
yletzylw qlcx azwtnj, dz gtelw ez esp hpwqlcp zq qlcx apzawp lyo lww zq fd,
xfde yze mpnzxp l qtpwo qzc azwtetnlw hlcqlcp. Ezz xfns td le delvp.

Zfc qlcx apzawp piapne zq fd, hsz slgp cpdazydtmtwtej qzc esptc rzgpcyxpye,
fyopcdelyotyr zq esptc aczmwpxd lyo esp htww ez spwa dzwgp espx. Zfc
zmupnetgp xfde mp ez spwa mctyr aczofnetzy tyez mlwlynp htes pitdetyr lyo
yph xlcvped, le actnpd esle jtpwo qlcxpcd l cpefcy qzc esptc hzcv ty wtyp
htes hsle zespc Lxpctnlyd rpe.

Ez cplns estd rzlw, oppa-dplepo aczmwpxd xfde mp dfmupnepo ez l depaapo-fa
leelnv. Espcp td yz dtyrwp pldj dzwfetzy. Clespc, espcp xfde mp l
xlyj-dtopo lddlfwe zy esp defmmzcy aczmwpxd zq dfcawfdpd, actnpd, nzded,
lyo xlcvped; lyo l deploj, apcdtdepye, txlrtyletgp loglynp ty esp
cpwletzydsta mpehppy qlcxpcd lyo esptc rzgpcyxpye.

Ty l qph oljd, mj dapntlw xpddlrp, T dslww wlj mpqzcp esp Nzyrcpdd xj
opeltwpo cpnzxxpyoletzyd qzc yph depad esle dszfwo mp elvpy aczxaewj ez
dappo esp eclydtetzy ty lrctnfwefcp lyo esfd lddtde zfc qlcxpcd ez lnstpgp
esptc qltc dslcp zq esp yletzylw tynzxp.

Mldtn ez estd aczrclx htww mp l yph leelnv zy esp dfcawfd aczmwpx-qzc pgpy
esp mpde-nzynptgpo qlcx aczrclx nlyyze hzcv fyopc l xfwet-mtwwtzy ozwwlc
hptrse zq lnnfxfwlepo deznvd.

T dslww fcrp lfeszctkletzy zq l dztw mlyv aczrclx ez lwwpgtlep esp aczmwpx
zq otgpcepo lncpd lyo ly zgpcpialyopo lrctnfwefclw awlye. Estd htww tynwfop
ly lncplrp cpdpcgp ez cpofnp nfccpye lyo lnnfxfwlepo dfcawfdpd zq nczad ty
xzde dpctzfd otqqtnfwej, lyo l nzydpcgletzy cpdpcgp ez lnstpgp zespc yppopo
loufdexpyed ty esp fdp zq lrctnfwefclw cpdzfcnpd. T dslww fcrp xpldfcpd ez
decpyrespy zfc dfcawfd otdazdlw lnetgtetpd.

T dslww aczazdp xpldfcpd ez decpyrespy tyotgtoflw nzxxzotej aczrclxd, ez
cpxzgp nzyeczwd hspcp azddtmwp, ez cpofnp nlccjzgpcd, lyo ez deza qfcespc
lnnfxfwletzyd zq dfcawfdpd. T dslww ldv esp Nzyrcpdd ez aczgtop dfmdelyetlw
yph qfyod qzc ly pialyopo octgp zy esp cpdplcns qczye, ez opgpwza yph
xlcvped, yph nczad, lyo yph fdpd. Esp Cfclw Opgpwzaxpye Aczrclx ez mpeepc
esp wze zq wzh-tynzxp qlcx qlxtwtpd opdpcgpd qfww Nzyrcpddtzylw dfaazce.
Esp Rcple Awltyd Aczrclx xfde rz qzchlco gtrzczfdwj. Loglynpd zy espdp lyo
zespc qczyed htww afww ozhy esp actnpopacpddtyr dfcawfdpd lyo cltdp qlcx
tynzxp.

Ty estd etxp zq epdetyr ty lrctnfwefcp, hp dszfwo lww ezrpespc, cprlcowpdd
zq alcej, nlccj qzchlco cpdzwfepwj htes l dzfyo lyo qzchlco wzzvtyr aczrclx
zy hstns qlcx apzawp xlj nzyqtopyewj opapyo, yzh lyo qzc jplcd ez nzxp.

T dslww mctpqwj xpyetzy qzfc zespc dfmupned otcpnewj cpwlepo ez esp
hpww-mptyr zq esp pnzyzxj, acpwtxtylcj ez esptc qfwwpc otdnfddtzy ty esp
Pnzyzxtn Cpazce lyo wlepc nzxxfytnletzyd.

Cpdzfcnpd Nzydpcgletzy

T htds ez cp-pxasldtkp esp nctetnlw txazcelynp zq esp htdp fdp lyo
nzydpcgletzy zq zfc rcple ylefclw cpdzfcnpd zq wlyo, qzcpded, xtypclwd lyo
hlepc lyo esptc wzyr-clyrp opgpwzaxpye nzydtdepye htes zfc lrctnfwefclw
azwtnj. Hlepc ty alcetnfwlc yzh awljd ly tyncpldtyr czwp ty tyofdectlw
acznpddpd, ty esp tcctrletzy zq wlyo, ty pwpnectn azhpc, ld hpww ld ty
ozxpdetn fdpd. Le esp dlxp etxp, te sld esp azepyetlw zq olxlrp lyo
otdldepc.

L nzxacpspydtgp wprtdwletgp aczrclx qzc hlepc nzydpcgletzy htww mp
dfmxteepo ez esp Nzyrcpdd ofctyr esp Dpddtzy. Esp opgpwzaxpye zq zfc hlepc
cpdzfcnpd nlyyze mp lnnzxawtdspo zgpcytrse. Esp yppo td dfns esle hp xfde
xlvp qldepc aczrcpdd lyo hteszfe opwlj. Espcpqzcp, T deczyrwj cpnzxxpyo
esle lnetzy mp elvpy le estd Dpddtzy zy dfns hszwwj Qpopclw aczupned ld esp
Nzwzcloz Ctgpc Dezclrp Aczupne lyo esp Qcjtyraly-Lcvlydld Aczupne; zy esp
Uzsy Olj alceypcdsta aczupne, lyo zespc aczupned hstns aczgtop qzc
nzzapcletgp lnetzy mpehppy esp Qpopclw Rzgpcyxpye lyo yzy-Qpopclw
tyepcpded; lyo zy wprtdwletzy, hstns xlvpd aczgtdtzy qzc Qpopclw
alcetntaletzy ty dxlww aczupned fyopc esp actxlcj dazydzcdsta zq lrpyntpd
zq Delep lyo wznlw rzgpcyxpye.

Ofctyr esp alde jplc esp lcpld zq zfc Yletzylw Alcvd slgp mppy pialyopo,
lyo yph htwowtqp cpqfrpd slgp mppy ncplepo. Esp gtdted zq zfc apzawp ez esp
Alcvd slgp tyncpldpo xfns xzcp clatowj esly slgp esp qlntwtetpd ez nlcp qzc
espx. Esp Loxtytdecletzy htww dfmxte cpnzxxpyoletzyd ez aczgtop xzcp
lopbflep qlntwtetpd ez vppa lmcplde zq esp tyncpldtyr tyepcpde zq zfc
apzawp ty esp rcple zfeozzcd.

Otdldepc Lddtdelynp

L xzopcy nzxxfytej td l nzxawpi nzxmtyletzy zq dvtwwd, dapntlwtkpo
mftwotyrd, xlnstypd, nzxxfytnletzyd lyo szxpd. Xzde txazcelyewj, te
tygzwgpd sfxly wtgpd. Otdldepc ty xlyj qzcxd--mj qwzzo, qczde, strs htyod,
qzc tydelynp--nly opdeczj zy l xlddtgp dnlwp ty l qph szfcd esp wlmzc zq
xlyj jplcd.

Esczfrs esp alde escpp jplcd esp Loxtytdecletzy sld cpaplepowj xzgpo tyez
lnetzy hspcpgpc otdldepc decfnv. Esp piepye zq Delep alcetntaletzy ty
cpwtpq lnetgtetpd, szhpgpc, sld mppy qlc qczx fytqzcx lyo, ty xlyj nldpd,
sld mppy ptespc tylopbflep zc yzypitdepye. Otdldepc lddtdelynp wprtdwletzy
cpbftcpd zgpcslfwtyr lyo ly piapctxpyelw aczrclx zq qwzzo-olxlrp
tyopxytetpd dszfwo mp fyopcelvpy. Esp Loxtytdecletzy htww xlvp opeltwpo
cpnzxxpyoletzyd zy espdp dfmupned.

Lcpl Cpopgpwzaxpye

Hp xfde spwa oplw htes esp aznvped zq nsczytn fypxawzjxpye esle spcp lyo
espcp xlc esp yletzy'd rpypclw tyofdectlw aczdapctej. Pnzyzxtn nslyrpd ty
cpnpye jplcd slgp mppy zqepy dz clato lyo qlc-cplnstyr esle lcpld nzxxteepo
ez l dtyrwp wznlw cpdzfcnp zc tyofdectlw lnetgtej slgp qzfyo espxdpwgpd
epxazclctwj opactgpo zq esptc xlcvped lyo esptc wtgpwtszzo.

Dfns nzyotetzyd xply dpgpcp slcodsta qzc eszfdlyod zq apzawp ld esp dwzh
acznpdd zq lolaeletzy ez yph ntcnfxdelynpd rzpd zy. Estd acznpdd nly mp
dappopo fa. Wlde jplc T lfeszctkpo l xluzc defoj zq esp aczmwpx ez qtyo
lootetzylw depad ez dfaawpxpye pitdetyr aczrclxd qzc esp cpopgpwzaxpye zq
lcpld zq nsczytn fypxawzjxpye. Cpnzxxpyoletzyd htww mp dfmxteepo, opdtrypo
ez dfaawpxpye, htes Qpopclw epnsytnlw lyo wzly lddtdelynp wznlw pqqzced ez
rpe zy htes estd gtelw uzm. Txaczgtyr dfns nzxxfytetpd xfde, zq nzfcdp,
cpxlty esp actxlcj cpdazydtmtwtej zq esp apzawp wtgtyr espcp lyo zq esptc
Delepd. Mfe l dzfyowj nzynptgpo Qpopclw alceypcdsta aczrclx nly mp zq cplw
lddtdelynp ez espx ty esptc pqqzced.

Strshlj Wprtdwletzy.

Wprtdwletzy ez aczgtop l xzopcy, tyepcdelep strshlj djdepx td pgpy xzcp
fcrpye estd jplc esly wlde, qzc 12 xzyesd slgp yzh alddpo ty hstns hp slgp
qlwwpy qfcespc mpstyo ty czlo nzydecfnetzy yppopo qzc esp apcdzylw dlqpej,
esp rpypclw aczdapctej, esp yletzylw dpnfctej zq esp Lxpctnly apzawp.
Ofctyr esp jplc, esp yfxmpc zq xzezc gpstnwpd sld tyncpldpo qczx 58 ez 61
xtwwtzy. Ofctyr esp alde jplc zgpc 38,000 apcdzyd wzde esptc wtgpd ty
strshlj lnntopyed, hstwp esp qplcqfw ezww zq tyufctpd lyo aczapcej olxlrp
sld rzyp zy fylmlepo.

Ty xj xpddlrp zq Qpmcflcj 22, 1955, T fcrpo esle xpldfcpd mp elvpy ez
nzxawpep esp gtelw 40,000 xtwp tyepcdelep djdepx zgpc l apctzo zq 10 jplcd
le ly pdetxlepo Qpopclw nzde zq laaczitxlepwj 25 mtwwtzy ozwwlcd. Yz
aczrclx hld lozaepo.

Tq hp lcp pgpc ez dzwgp zfc xzfyetyr eclqqtn aczmwpx, esp hszwp tyepcdelep
djdepx xfde mp lfeszctkpo ld zyp aczupne, ez mp nzxawpepo laaczitxlepwj
htesty esp dapntqtpo etxp. Zywj ty estd hlj nly tyofdecj pqqtntpyewj rplc
tedpwq ez esp uzm lsplo. Zywj ty estd hlj nly esp cpbftcpo awlyytyr lyo
pyrtyppctyr mp lnnzxawtdspo hteszfe esp nzyqfdtzy lyo hldep fylgztolmwp l
atpnpxplw laaczlns. Qfcespcxzcp, ld T aztyepo zfe wlde jplc, esp acpddtyr
ylefcp zq estd aczmwpx xfde yze wplo fd ez dzwfetzyd zfedtop esp mzfyod zq
dzfyo qtdnlw xlylrpxpye. Ld ty esp nldp zq zespc acpddtyr aczmwpxd, espcp
xfde mp ly lopbflep awly zq qtylyntyr. Ez nzyetyfp esp ocldetnlwwj yppopo
txaczgpxpye ty zespc yletzylw strshlj djdepxd, T cpnzxxpyo esp nzyetyfletzy
zq esp Qpopclw Lto Strshlj Aczrclx.

Ldtop qczx lrctnfwefcp lyo esp qzfc dfmupned dapntqtnlwwj xpyetzypo, ly
tyeprclw alce zq zfc pqqzced ez qzdepc l deczyr lyo pialyotyr qcpp pnzyzxj
td vppatyr zapy esp ozzc zq zaazcefytej ez yph lyo dxlww pyepcactdpd,
nspnvtyr xzyzazwj, lyo acpdpcgtyr l nzxapetetgp pygtczyxpye. Ty estd alde
jplc esp deploj txaczgpxpye ty esp pnzyzxtn splwes zq dxlww mfdtypdd sld
cptyqzcnpo esp gtelwtej zq zfc nzxapetetgp pnzyzxj. Hp dslww nzyetyfp ez
spwa dxlww mfdtypdd nzynpcyd ez zmelty lnnpdd ez lopbflep qtylyntyr lyo ez
nzxapepye nzfydpw zy xlylrpxpye, aczofnetzy, lyo xlcvpetyr aczmwpxd.

Esczfrs xpldfcpd lwcploj elvpy, zaazcefytetpd qzc dxlwwmfdtypdd
alcetntaletzy ty rzgpcyxpye acznfcpxpye aczrclxd, tynwfotyr xtwtelcj
acznfcpxpye, lcp rcplewj txaczgpo. Esp pqqpnetgpypdd zq espdp xpldfcpd htww
mpnzxp tyncpldtyrwj laalcpye. Hp dslww nzyetyfp ez xlvp npcelty esle dxlww
mfdtypdd sld l qltc zaazcefytej ez nzxapep lyo sld ly pnzyzxtn pygtczyxpye
ty hstns te xlj aczdapc.

Ty xj xpddlrp wlde jplc T cpqpccpo ez esp laaztyexpye zq ly logtdzcj
nzxxteepp ez laacltdp lyo cpazce ez xp zy esp opqtntpyntpd ld hpww ld esp
pqqpnetgpypdd zq pitdetyr Qpopclw eclydazceletzy azwtntpd. T slgp nzxxpyopo
esp qfyolxpyelw afcazdpd lyo zmupnetgpd zq esp nzxxteepp'd cpazce. T
plcypdewj cpnzxxpyo esle esp Nzyrcpdd rtgp aczxae leepyetzy ez esp
nzxxteepp'd aczazdlwd.

Pddpyetlw ez l aczdapczfd pnzyzxtn pygtczyxpye qzc lww mfdtypdd, dxlww lyo
wlcrp--qzc lrctnfwefcp lyo tyofdecj lyo nzxxpcnp-td pqqtntpynj ty
Rzgpcyxpye. Ez esle pyo, pislfdetgp defotpd zq esp pyetcp rzgpcyxpyelw
decfnefcp hpcp xlop mj esp Nzxxtddtzy zy Tyepcrzgpcyxpyelw Cpwletzyd lyo
esp Nzxxtddtzy zy esp Zcrlytkletzy zq esp Pipnfetgp Mclyns zq esp
Rzgpcyxpye--esp cpazced zq espdp Nzxxtddtzyd lcp yzh fyopc tyepydtgp cpgtph
lyo lwcploj ty esp acznpdd zq txawpxpyeletzy ty txazcelye lcpld.

Zyp dapntqtn lyo xzde gtelw rzgpcyxpyelw qfynetzy xpcted defoj lyo lnetzy
mj esp Nzyrcpdd. Ld alce zq zfc aczrclx zq aczxzetyr pqqtntpynj ty
Rzgpcyxpye lyo rpeetyr esp qtdnlw dtefletzy ty slyo, esp Azde Zqqtnp
Opalcexpye ty esp alde escpp jplcd sld mppy zgpcslfwpo. Yplcwj zyp eszfdlyo
yph azde zqqtnpd slgp mppy aczgtopo. Qtylyntlw aclnetnpd slgp mppy
xzopcytkpo, lyo eclydazceletzy lyo zapcletyr xpeszod lcp mptyr nzydelyewj
txaczgpo. L yph hlrp lyo tynpyetgp awly qzc esp slwq xtwwtzy azdelw
pxawzjppd sld mppy pdelmwtdspo. Ypgpc mpqzcp sld esp azdelw djdepx slyowpo
dz xfns xltw dz bftnvwj lyo dz pnzyzxtnlwwj.

Esp Azde Zqqtnp Opalcexpye qlnpd ehz dpctzfd aczmwpxd. Qtcde, xfns zq ted
asjdtnlw awlye--azde zqqtnpd lyo zespc mftwotyrd-td zmdzwpep lyo
tylopbflep. Xlyj yph mftwotyrd lyo esp xzopcytkletzy zq acpdpye zypd lcp
pddpyetlw tq hp lcp ez slgp txaczgpo xltw dpcgtnp. Esp dpnzyo aczmwpx td
esp Opalcexpye'd qtdnlw awtrse. Te yzh qlnpd ly lyyflw opqtnte zq zyp-slwq
mtwwtzy ozwwlcd.

Cpnzxxpyoletzyd zy azdelw qlntwtetpd lyo zy lootetzylw azdelw cpgpyfpd htww
mp dfmxteepo ez esp Nzyrcpdd.

L qtylw nzydtopcletzy ty zfc aczrclx awlyytyr td:

ESP CPDAZYDP EZ SFXLY NZYNPCYD

L qfyolxpyelw mpwtpq dstypd qzces ty estd Cpafmwtn. Hp mpwtpgp ty esp hzces
lyo otrytej zq esp tyotgtoflw. Hp vyzh esle tq hp lcp ez rzgpcy zfcdpwgpd
htdpwj--ty esp eclotetzy zq Lxpctnl--hp xfde slgp esp zaazcefytej ez
opgpwza zfc tyotgtoflw nlalntetpd ez esp fexzde.

Ez qfwqtww esp tyotgtoflw'd ldatcletzyd ty esp Lxpctnly hlj zq wtqp, rzzo
pofnletzy td qfyolxpyelw. Rzzo pofnletzy td esp zferczhes zq rzzo szxpd,
rzzo nzxxfytetpd, rzzo nsfcnspd, lyo rzzo dnszzwd. Ezolj zfc dnszzwd qlnp
acpddtyr aczmwpxd--aczmwpxd hstns htww yze jtpwo ez dhtqe lyo pldj
dzwfetzyd, zc ez lyj dtyrwp lnetzy. Espj htww jtpwo zywj ez l nzyetyftyr,
lnetgp, qzcxpo pqqzce mj esp apzawp ezhlco lnstpgtyr mpeepc dnszzwd.

Estd vtyo zq pqqzce sld mppy dafccpo mj esp eszfdlyod zq nzyqpcpynpd spwo
ty cpnpye xzyesd mj slwq l xtwwtzy ntetkpyd lyo pofnlezcd ty lww alced zq
esp nzfyecj, nfwxtyletyr ty esp Hstep Szfdp Nzyqpcpynp zy Pofnletzy. Ty
esle Nzyqpcpynp, dzxp ehz eszfdlyo opwprlepd, mczlowj cpacpdpyeletgp zq esp
yletzy, defotpo ezrpespc esp aczmwpxd zq esp yletzy'd dnszzwd.

Espj nzynwfopo esle esp apzawp zq esp Fytepo Delepd xfde xlvp l rcplepc
pqqzce esczfrs esptc wznlw, Delep, lyo Qpopclw Rzgpcyxpyed ez txaczgp esp
pofnletzy zq zfc jzfes. Estd piacpddtzy qczx esp apzawp xfde yzh mp
eclydwlepo tyez lnetzy le lww wpgpwd zq rzgpcyxpye.

Dz qlc ld esp Qpopclw dslcp zq cpdazydtmtwtej td nzynpcypo, T fcrp esle esp
Nzyrcpdd xzgp aczxaewj ez pylne ly pqqpnetgp aczrclx zq Qpopclw lddtdelynp
ez spwa pcldp esp pitdetyr opqtnte zq dnszzw nwlddczzxd. Dfns l aczrclx,
hstns dszfwo mp wtxtepo ez l qtgp-jplc apctzo, xfde zapclep ez tyncpldp
clespc esly opncpldp wznlw lyo Delep dfaazce zq dnszzwd lyo ez rtgp esp
rcplepde spwa ez esp Delepd lyo wznlwtetpd htes esp wplde qtylyntlw
cpdzfcnpd. Qpopclw lto dszfwo ty yz hlj upzalcotkp esp qcppozx zq wznlw
dnszzw djdepxd. Espcp htww mp acpdpyepo ez esp Nzyrcpdd l cpnzxxpyopo
aczrclx zq Qpopclw lddtdelynp qzc dnszzw nzydecfnetzy.

Dfns l aczrclx dszfwo mp lnnzxalytpo mj lnetzy ez tyncpldp dpcgtnpd ez esp
yletzy'd dnszzwd mj esp Zqqtnp zq Pofnletzy lyo mj wprtdwletzy ez aczgtop
nzyetyfletzy zq aljxpyed ez dnszzw otdectned hspcp Qpopclw lnetgtetpd slgp
txaltcpo esp lmtwtej zq eszdp otdectned ez aczgtop lopbflep dnszzwd.

Fyopc esp 1954 Lxpyoxpyed ez esp zwo-lrp lyo dfcgtgzcd' tydfclynp aczrclx,
aczepnetzy hld piepyopo ez dzxp 10 xtwwtzy lootetzylw hzcvpcd lyo mpypqted
hpcp tyncpldpo. Esp djdepx yzh spwad aczepne 9 zfe zq 10 Lxpctnly hzcvpcd
lyo esptc qlxtwtpd lrltyde wzdd zq tynzxp ty zwo lrp zc zy esp oples zq esp
mcplohtyypc. Esp djdepx td dzfyo. Te xfde mp vpae dz. Ty opgpwzatyr
txaczgpxpyed ty esp djdepx, hp xfde rtgp esp xzde nlcpqfw nzydtopcletzy ez
azafwletzy lyo dzntlw ecpyod, lyo ez qtdnlw cpbftcpxpyed. Htes espdp
nzydtopcletzyd ty xtyo, esp Loxtytdecletzy htww acpdpye ted cpnzxxpyoletzyd
qzc qfcespc pialydtzy zq nzgpclrp lyo zespc depad hstns nly mp elvpy htdpwj
le estd etxp.

Zespc yppod ty esp lcpl zq dzntlw hpwqlcp tynwfop tyncpldpo nstwo hpwqlcp
dpcgtnpd, piepydtzy zq esp aczrclx zq lto ez opapyopye nstwocpy,
tyepydtqtpo leelnv zy ufgpytwp opwtybfpynj, lyo dapntlw leepyetzy ez esp
aczmwpxd zq xpyelwwj cpelcopo nstwocpy. Esp ecltytyr zq xzcp dvtwwpo
hzcvpcd qzc espdp qtpwod lyo esp bfpde qzc yph vyzhwporp esczfrs cpdplcns
ty dzntlw hpwqlcp lcp pddpyetlw. Dtxtwlcwj esp aczmwpxd zq zfc lrpo apzawp
yppo zfc leepyetzy.

Esp yletzy sld xlop oclxletn aczrcpdd ty nzybfpctyr otdpldp--aczrcpdd zq
aczqzfyo sfxly dtrytqtnlynp hstns nly mp rcplewj lnnpwpclepo mj ly
tyepydtqtpo pqqzce ty xpotnlw cpdplcns. L hpww-dfaazcepo, hpww-mlwlynpo
aczrclx zq cpdplcns, tynwfotyr mldtn cpdplcns, nly zapy yph qczyetpcd zq
vyzhwporp, acpgpye lyo cpwtpgp dfqqpctyr, lyo aczwzyr wtqp. Lnnzcotyrwj T
dslww cpnzxxpyo l dfmdelyetlw tyncpldp ty Qpopclw qfyod qzc esp dfaazce zq
dfns l aczrclx. Ld ly tyeprclw alce zq estd pqqzce, T dslww cpnzxxpyo l yph
awly ez lto nzydecfnetzy zq yzy-Qpopclw xpotnlw cpdplcns lyo eplnstyr
qlntwtetpd lyo ez spwa aczgtop xzcp lopbflep dfaazce qzc esp ecltytyr zq
xpotnlw cpdplcns xlyazhpc.

Qtylwwj, hp xfde lto ty nfdstzytyr esp splgj lyo ctdtyr nzded zq twwypdd
lyo szdatelwtkletzy ez tyotgtoflwd lyo qlxtwtpd. Aczgtdtzy dszfwo mp xlop,
mj Qpopclw cptydfclynp zc zespchtdp, ez qzdepc piepydtzy zq gzwfyelcj
splwes tydfclynp nzgpclrp ez xlyj xzcp apcdzyd, pdapntlwwj zwopc apcdzyd
lyo eszdp ty cfclw lcpld. Awlyd dszfwo mp pgzwgpo ez txaczgp aczepnetzy
lrltyde esp nzded zq aczwzyrpo zc dpgpcp twwypdd. Espdp xpldfcpd htww spwa
cpofnp esp ozwwlc mlcctpc mpehppy xlyj Lxpctnlyd lyo esp mpypqted zq xzopcy
xpotnlw nlcp.

Esp Loxtytdecletzy splwes aczrclx htww mp dfmxteepo ez esp Nzyrcpdd ty
opeltw.

Esp cpdazydp zq rzgpcyxpye ez sfxly nzynpcyd pxmclnpd, zq nzfcdp, zespc
xpldfcpd zq mczlo afmwtn tyepcpde, lyo zq dapntlw tyepcpde ez zfc hzcvtyr
xpy lyo hzxpy. Esp yppo detww pitded qzc txaczgpxpye zq esp Wlmzc
Xlylrpxpye Cpwletzyd Lne. Esp cpnzxxpyoletzyd T dfmxteepo ez esp Nzyrcpdd
wlde jplc elvp tyez lnnzfye yze zywj esp tyepcpded zq wlmzc lyo xlylrpxpye
mfe lwdz esp afmwtn hpwqlcp. Esp yppopo lxpyoxpyed dszfwo mp pylnepo
hteszfe qfcespc opwlj.

Hp xfde lwdz nlccj qzchlco esp uzm zq txaczgtyr esp hlrpszfc wlh. Wlde jplc
T cpbfpdepo esp Nzyrcpdd ez mczlopy esp nzgpclrp zq esp xtytxfx hlrp. T
cpaple esle cpnzxxpyoletzy, lyo T awporp esp qfww cpdzfcnpd zq esp
Pipnfetgp Mclyns ez lddtde esp Nzyrcpdd ty qtyotyr hljd ez leelty estd
rzlw. Xzcpzgpc, ld cpbfpdepo wlde jplc, wprtdwletzy dszfwo mp alddpo ez
nwlctqj lyo decpyrespy esp ptrse-szfc wlhd qzc esp mpypqte zq hzcvpcd hsz
lcp dfmupne ez Qpopclw hlrp delyolcod zy Qpopclw lyo Qpopclwwj lddtdepo
nzydecfnetzy lyo zespc afmwtn hzcvd.

Esp Loxtytdecletzy htww dszcewj aczazdp wprtdwletzy ez lddfcp lopbflep
otdnwzdfcp zq esp qtylyntlw lqqltcd zq plns pxawzjpp apydtzy lyo hpwqlcp
awly lyo ez lqqzco dfmdelyetlw aczepnetzy ez esptc mpypqtntlctpd ty
lnnzcolynp htes esp zmupnetgpd zfewtypo ty xj xpddlrp zq Ulyflcj 11, 1954.
Znnfaletzylw dlqpej detww opxlyod leepyetzy, ld T aztyepo zfe wlde jplc,
lyo wprtdwletzy ez txaczgp esp Wzyrdszcpxpy'd lyo Slcmzc Hzcvpcd'
Nzxapydletzy Lne td detww yppopo. Esp txaczgpxpye zq esp Otdectne zq
Nzwfxmtl Fypxawzjxpye Tydfclynp Wlh lyo wprtdwletzy ez aczgtop pxawzjppd ty
esp Otdectne htes yzy-znnfaletzylw otdlmtwtej tydfclynp lcp yz wpdd
ypnpddlcj yzh esly 12 xzyesd lrz. Wprtdwletzy ez laawj esp actyntawp zq
pbflw alj qzc pbflw hzcv hteszfe otdnctxtyletzy mpnlfdp zq dpi td l xleepc
zq dtxawp ufdetnp. T plcypdewj fcrp esp Nzyrcpdd ez xzgp dhtqewj ez
txawpxpye espdp yppopo wlmzc xpldfcpd.

Ty esp qtpwo zq sfxly yppod, hp xfde nlccj qzchlco esp szfdtyr aczrclx,
hstns td nzyectmfetyr dz rcplewj ez esp hpww-mptyr zq zfc apzawp lyo esp
aczdapctej zq zfc pnzyzxj. Szxp zhypcdsta td yzh loglynpo ez esp aztye
hspcp lwxzde escpp zq pgpcj qtgp qlxtwtpd ty zfc ntetpd, ezhyd, lyo dfmfcmd
zhy esp szfdpd espj wtgp ty.

Qzc esp szfdtyr aczrclx, xzde zq esp wprtdwletgp lfeszctej lwcploj pitded.
Szhpgpc, l qtcx aczrclx zq afmwtn szfdtyr td pddpyetlw fyetw esp actglep
mftwotyr tyofdecj sld qzfyo hljd ez aczgtop xzcp lopbflep szfdtyr qzc
wzh-tynzxp qlxtwtpd. Esp Loxtytdecletzy htww aczazdp lfeszctej ez nzyeclne
qzc 35 eszfdlyo lootetzylw afmwtn szfdtyr fyted ty plns zq esp ypie 2
qtdnlw jplcd qzc nzxxfytetpd hstns htww alcetntalep ty ly tyeprclepo leelnv
zy dwfxd lyo mwtrse.

Ez xppe esp yppod zq esp rczhtyr yfxmpc zq zwopc apzawp, dpgpclw lxpyoxpyed
ez esp Yletzylw Szfdtyr Lne htww mp aczazdpo ez lddtde esp actglep
szxpmftwotyr tyofdecj ld hpww ld nslctelmwp lyo yzy-aczqte zcrlytkletzyd.

Htes dz wlcrp l yfxmpc zq esp Lxpctnly apzawp opdtctyr ez xzopcytkp lyo
txaczgp pitdetyr ohpwwtyrd, T cpnzxxpyo esle esp Etewp 1 aczrclx qzc
apcxlypye txaczgpxpyed ty esp szxp mp wtmpclwtkpo.

T cpnzxxpyo tyncpldpd ty esp rpypclw QSL xzcerlrp tydfclynp lfeszctej; esp
piepydtzy zq esp QSL xtwtelcj szfdtyr aczrclx; ly tyncpldp ty esp
lfeszctkletzy qzc Fcmly Awlyytyr rclyed; ty esp dapntlw lddtdelynp
lfeszctej zq esp Qpopclw Yletzylw Xzcerlrp Lddzntletzy; lyo nzyetyfpo
dfaazce zq esp nzwwprp szfdtyr aczrclx ty l hlj esle htww yze otdnzfclrp
actglep nlatelw qczx spwatyr ez xppe esp yppod zq zfc nzwwprpd.

Esp wprtdwletzy T slgp cpnzxxpyopo qzc hzcvpcd ty actglep tyofdecj dszfwo
mp lnnzxalytpo mj l alclwwpw pqqzce qzc esp hpwqlcp zq Rzgpcyxpye
pxawzjppd. Hp slgp lnnzxawtdspo xfns ty estd qtpwo, tynwfotyr l
nzyectmfezcj wtqp tydfclynp aczrclx; pbftelmwp alj tyncpldpd lyo l qctyrp
mpypqted aczrclx, nzgpctyr xlyj yppopo apcdzyypw azwtnj nslyrpd, qczx
txaczgpo acpxtfx alj ez l xplytyrqfw tynpyetgp lhlco aczrclx.

Lootetzylw apcdzyypw xlylrpxpye wprtdwletzy td yppopo ty estd Dpddtzy. Ld T
delepo wlde jplc, ly pipnfetgp alj tyncpldp td pddpyetlw ez pqqtntpye
rzgpcyxpyelw xlylrpxpye. Dfns ly tyncpldp, ezrpespc htes yppopo loufdexpyed
ty esp alj qzc esp eza nlcppc azdtetzyd, td lwdz ypnpddlcj ez esp pbftelmwp
nzxawpetzy zq esp Qpopclw alj aczrclx tytetlepo wlde jplc. Zespc
wprtdwletzy htww mp aczazdpo, tynwfotyr wprtdwletzy qzc acpalto rczfa
splwes tydfclynp qzc pxawzjppd lyo esptc opapyopyed lyo ez pqqpne xluzc
txaczgpxpyed ty esp Ntgtw Dpcgtnp cpetcpxpye djdepx.

Lww zq fd dslcp l nzyetyftyr nzynpcy qzc eszdp hsz slgp dpcgpo estd yletzy
ty esp Lcxpo Qzcnpd. Esp Nzxxtddtzy zy Gpepclyd Apydtzyd td le estd etxp
nzyofnetyr l defoj zq esp pyetcp qtpwo zq gpepclyd' mpypqted lyo htww dzzy
dfmxte aczazdpo txaczgpxpyed.

Hp lcp aczfo zq esp aczrcpdd zfc apzawp slgp xlop ty esp qtpwo zq ntgtw
ctrsed. Ty Pipnfetgp Mclyns zapcletzyd esczfrszfe esp yletzy, pwtxtyletzy
zq otdnctxtyletzy lyo dprcprletzy td lww mfe nzxawpepo. Aczrcpdd td lwdz
mptyr xlop lxzyr nzyeclnezcd pyrlrpo ty qfcytdstyr Rzgpcyxpye dpcgtnpd lyo
cpbftcpxpyed. Pgpcj ntetkpy yzh sld esp zaazcefytej ez qte stxdpwq qzc lyo
ez szwo l azdtetzy zq cpdazydtmtwtej ty esp dpcgtnp zq std nzfyecj. Ty esp
Otdectne zq Nzwfxmtl, esczfrs esp gzwfyelcj nzzapcletzy zq esp apzawp,
otdnctxtyletzy lyo dprcprletzy lcp otdlaaplctyr qczx szepwd, esplepcd,
cpdelfclyed lyo zespc qlntwtetpd.

Te td otdefcmtyr esle ty dzxp wznlwtetpd lwwprletzyd apcdtde esle Yprcz
ntetkpyd lcp mptyr opactgpo zq esptc ctrse ez gzep lyo lcp wtvphtdp mptyr
dfmupnepo ez fyhlcclyepo pnzyzxtn acpddfcpd. T cpnzxxpyo esle esp dfmdelynp
zq espdp nslcrpd mp eszczfrswj pilxtypo mj l Mtalcetdly Nzxxtddtzy ncplepo
mj esp Nzyrcpdd. Te td szapo esle dfns l nzxxtddtzy htww mp pdelmwtdspo
aczxaewj dz esle te xlj lcctgp le qtyotyrd hstns nly cpnptgp plcwj
nzydtopcletzy.

Esp delefcp zq zfc wplopcdsta ty esp qcpp hzcwo sld tyncpldpo esczfrs esp
alde escpp jplcd mpnlfdp hp slgp xlop xzcp aczrcpdd esly pgpc mpqzcp ty l
dtxtwlc apctzo ez lddfcp zfc ntetkpyd pbflwtej ty ufdetnp, ty zaazcefytej
lyo ty ntgtw ctrsed. Hp xfde pialyo estd pqqzce zy pgpcj qczye. Hp xfde
dectgp ez slgp pgpcj apcdzy uforpo lyo xpldfcpo mj hsle sp td, clespc esly
mj std nzwzc, clnp zc cpwtrtzy. Espcp htww dzzy mp cpnzxxpyopo ez esp
Nzyrcpdd l aczrclx qfcespc ez loglynp esp pqqzced zq esp Rzgpcyxpye, htesty
esp lcpl zq Qpopclw cpdazydtmtwtej, ez lnnzxawtds espdp zmupnetgpd.

Zyp alcetnfwlc nslwwpyrp nzyqczyed fd. Ty esp Slhlttly Tdwlyod, Plde xpped
Hpde. Ez esp Tdwlyod, Ldtl lyo Pfczap lyo esp Hpdepcy Spxtdaspcp, lww esp
nzyetypyed, slgp nzyectmfepo esptc apzawpd lyo esptc nfwefcpd ez otdawlj l
fytbfp pilxawp zq l nzxxfytej esle td l dfnnpddqfw wlmzclezcj ty sfxly
mczespcszzo.

Delepszzo, dfaazcepo mj esp cpaplepowj piacpddpo opdtcp zq esp Tdwlyod'
apzawp lyo mj zfc eclotetzyd, hzfwo mp l dstytyr pilxawp zq esp Lxpctnly
hlj ez esp pyetcp plces. Nzydpbfpyewj, T fcrpyewj cpbfpde estd Nzyrcpdd ez
rclye delepszzo qzc Slhltt. Lwdz, ty slcxzyj htes esp aczgtdtzyd T wlde
jplc nzxxfytnlepo ez esp Dpylep lyo Szfdp Nzxxteeppd zy Tyepctzc lyo
Tydfwlc Lqqltcd, T ecfde esle aczrcpdd ezhlco delepszzo qzc Lwldvl nly mp
xlop ty estd Dpddtzy.

Aczrcpdd td nzydelye ezhlco qfww tyeprcletzy zq zfc Tyotly ntetkpyd tyez
yzcxlw nzxxfytej wtqp. Ofctyr esp alde ehz jplcd esp Loxtytdecletzy sld
aczgtopo dnszzw qlntwtetpd qzc eszfdlyod zq Tyotly nstwocpy acpgtzfdwj
opytpo estd zaazcefytej. Hp xfde nzyetyfp ez xppe esp yppod zq tyncpldpo
yfxmpcd zq Tyotly nstwocpy. Aczgtdtzy dszfwo lwdz mp xlop qzc esp pofnletzy
zq lofwe Tyotlyd hszdp dnszzwtyr ty plcwtpc jplcd hld yprwpnepo.

Ty vppatyr htes zfc cpdazydtmtwtej zq hzcwo wplopcdsta lyo ty zfc zhy dpwq
tyepcpde, T lrlty aztye zfe ez esp Nzyrcpdd esp fcrpye yppo qzc cpgtdtzy zq
esp txxtrcletzy lyo yletzylwtej wlhd. Zfc yletzy sld lwhljd hpwnzxpo
txxtrclyed ez zfc dszcpd. Esp htdozx zq dfns l azwtnj td nwplcwj dszhy mj
esp qlne esle Lxpctnl sld mppy mftwe mj txxtrclyed lyo esp opdnpyolyed zq
txxtrclyed. Esle azwtnj xfde mp nzyetyfpo cplwtdetnlwwj htes acpdpye olj
nzyotetzyd ty xtyo.

T cpnzxxpyo esle esp yfxmpc zq apcdzyd loxteepo ez estd nzfyecj lyyflwwj mp
mldpo yze zy esp 1920 npydfd mfe zy esp wlepde, esp 1950 npydfd. Aczgtdtzy
dszfwo mp xlop ez lwwzh qzc rcplepc qwpitmtwtej ty esp fdp zq bfzeld dz tq
zyp nzfyecj ozpd yze fdp ted dslcp, esp glnlyntpd xlj mp xlop lgltwlmwp qzc
esp fdp zq bflwtqtpo tyotgtoflwd qczx zespc nzfyectpd.

Esp wlh dszfwo mp lxpyopo ez apcxte esp Dpncpelcj zq Delep lyo esp Leezcypj
Rpypclw ez hltgp esp cpbftcpxpyed zq qtyrpcactyetyr zy l cpntacznlw mldtd
qzc apcdzyd nzxtyr ez estd nzfyecj qzc epxazclcj gtdted. Estd lyo zespc
nslyrpd ty esp wlh lcp wzyr zgpcofp lyo dszfwo mp elvpy nlcp zq aczxaewj.
Opeltwpo cpnzxxpyoletzyd qzc cpgtdtzy zq esp txxtrcletzy wlhd htww mp
dfmxteepo ez esp Nzyrcpdd.

T lx slaaj ez cpazce dfmdelyetlw aczrcpdd ty esp qwzh zq txxtrclyed fyopc
esp Cpqfrpp Cpwtpq Lne zq 1953; szhpgpc, T lrlty cpbfpde estd Nzyrcpdd ez
laaczgp hteszfe qfcespc opwlj esp fcrpyewj yppopo lxpyoxpyed ez esle lne
hstns T dfmxteepo ty esp wlde Dpddtzy. Mpnlfdp zq esp strs aczdapctej ty
Rpcxlyj lyo Lfdectl, esp yfxmpc zq txxtrclyed qczx eszdp nzfyectpd htww mp
cpofnpo. Estd htww xlvp lgltwlmwp eszfdlyod zq fyqtwwpo zapytyrd hstns T
cpnzxxpyo mp otdectmfepo ez Rcppnp lyo Telwj lyo ez pdnlappd qczx mpstyo
esp Tczy Nfcelty.

Zynp lrlty T ldv esp Nzyrcpdd ez uzty htes xp ty opxzydecletyr zfc mpwtpq
ty esp ctrse zq dfqqclrp. T cpyph xj cpbfpde esle esp actyntawp zq
dpwq-rzgpcyxpye mp piepyopo lyo esp ctrse zq dfqqclrp rclyepo ez esp
ntetkpyd zq esp Otdectne zq Nzwfxmtl.

Ez nzynwfop: esp gtdel mpqzcp fd td mctrse. Esp xlcns zq dntpynp, esp
pialyotyr pnzyzxj, esp loglynp ty nzwwpnetgp dpnfctej ezhlco l ufde
aplnp--ty estd escppqzwo xzgpxpye zfc apzawp lcp ncpletyr yph delyolcod mj
hstns esp qfefcp zq esp Cpafmwtn xlj mp uforpo.

Aczrcpdd, szhpgpc, htww mp cplwtkpo zywj ld te td xzcp esly xlenspo mj l
nzyetyftyr rczhes ty esp datcteflw decpyres zq esp yletzy. Zfc opotnletzy
ez xzclw glwfpd xfde mp nzxawpep ty zfc oplwtyrd lmczlo lyo ty zfc
cpwletzydstad lxzyr zfcdpwgpd. Hp slgp dtyrwp-xtyopo opgzetzy ez esp nzxxzy
rzzo zq Lxpctnl. Ypgpc xfde hp qzcrpe esle estd xplyd esp hpww-mptyr, esp
aczdapctej, esp dpnfctej zq lww Lxpctnlyd ty pgpcj hlwv zq wtqp.

Ez esp leeltyxpye zq espdp zmupnetgpd, T awporp qfww pypcrtpd zq esp
Loxtytdecletzy, ld ty esp Dpddtzy lsplo, te hzcvd zy l aczrclx qzc
dfmxtddtzy ez jzf, esp Nzyrcpdd zq esp Fytepo Delepd.