Hm. Kmzndyzio, Hm. Nkzvfzm, Hzhwzmn ja ocz Zdbcot-ocdmy Xjibmznn:

Do dn v cdbc cjijm vbvdi oj kmznzio oj ocz Xjibmznn ht qdzrn ji ocz novoz
ja ocz Pidji viy oj mzxjhhziy hzvnpmzn oj vyqvixz ocz nzxpmdot, kmjnkzmdot,
viy rzgg-wzdib ja ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz.

Vgg wmvixczn ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio--viy D qziopmz oj nvt wjoc ja jpm bmzvo
kvmodzn--xvi npkkjmo ocz bzizmvg jwezxodqz ja ocz mzxjhhziyvodjin D hvfz
ojyvt, ajm ocvo jwezxodqz dn ocz wpdgydib ja v nomjibzm Vhzmdxv. V ivodji
rcjnz zqzmt xdoduzi cvn bjjy mzvnji ajm wjgy cjkz; rczmz zaajmo dn mzrvmyzy
viy kmjnkzmdot dn ncvmzy; rczmz amzzyjh zskviyn viy kzvxz dn nzxpmz--ocvo
dn rcvo D hzvi wt v nomjibzm Vhzmdxv.

Ojrvmy ocdn jwezxodqz v mzvg hjhzioph cvn wzzi yzqzgjkzy ypmdib ocdn
Vyhdidnomvodji'n admno tzvm di jaadxz. Rz hzvi oj xjiodipz ocvo hjhzioph
viy oj dixmzvnz do. Rz hzvi oj wpdgy v wzoozm apopmz ajm ocdn ivodji.

Hpxc ajm rcdxc rz hvt wz ocvifapg cvn cvkkzizy ypmdib ocz kvno tzvm.

Admno ja vgg rz vmz yzzkgt bmvozapg ocvo jpm njin ij gjibzm ydz ji ocz
ydnovio hjpiovdin ja Fjmzv. Vgocjpbc oczt vmz nodgg xvggzy amjh jpm cjhzn
oj hdgdovmt nzmqdxz, oczt vmz ij gjibzm xvggzy oj ocz adzgy ja wvoogz.

Ocz ivodji cvn epno xjhkgzozy ocz hjno kmjnkzmjpn tzvm di don cdnojmt. Ocz
yvhvbdib zaazxo ja diagvodji ji ocz rvbzn, kzindjin, nvgvmdzn viy nvqdibn
ja pn vgg cvn wzzi wmjpbco piyzm xjiomjg. Ovszn cvqz wzbpi oj bj yjri. Ocz
xjno ja jpm bjqzmihzio cvn wzzi mzypxzy viy don rjmf kmjxzzyn rdoc njhz
183,000 azrzm zhkgjtzzn; ocpn ocz ydnxjpmvbdib omziy ja hjyzmi bjqzmihzion
ojrvmy oczdm jri gdhdogznn zskvindji cvn di jpm xvnz wzzi mzqzmnzy. Ocz
xjno ja vmhvhzion wzxjhzn gznn jkkmznndqz vn rz izvm jpm yzazinz bjvgn; tzo
rz vmz hdgdovmdgt nomjibzm zqzmt yvt. Ypmdib ocz tzvm, xmzvodji ja ocz izr
Xvwdizo Yzkvmohzio ja Czvgoc, Zypxvodji, viy Rzgavmz nthwjgduzy ocz
bjqzmihzio'n kzmhvizio xjixzmi rdoc ocz cphvi kmjwgzhn ja jpm xdoduzin.

Nzbmzbvodji di ocz vmhzy ajmxzn viy joczm Azyzmvg vxodqdodzn dn ji ocz rvt
jpo. Rz cvqz vgnj hvyz kmjbmznn ojrvmy don zgdhdivodji di ocz Ydnomdxo ja
Xjgphwdv. Ocznz vmz nozkn di ocz xjiodipdib zaajmo oj zgdhdivoz
diozm-mvxdvg ydaadxpgot.

Njhz yzqzgjkhzion wztjiy jpm ncjmzn cvqz wzzi zlpvggt zixjpmvbdib.
Xjhhpidno vbbmznndji, cvgozy di Fjmzv, xjiodipzn oj hzzo di Diyj-xcdiv ocz
qdbjmjpn mzndnovixz ja Amvixz viy ocz Vnnjxdvozy Novozn, vnndnozy wt odhzgt
vdy amjh jpm xjpiomt. Di Rzno Bzmhvit, di Dmvi, viy di joczm vmzvn ja ocz
rjmgy, czvmozidib kjgdodxvg qdxojmdzn cvqz wzzi rji wt ocz ajmxzn ja
novwdgdot viy amzzyjh. Ngjrgt wpo npmzgt, ocz amzz rjmgy bvoczmn nomziboc.
Hzvircdgz, amjh wzcdiy ocz dmji xpmovdi, oczmz vmz ndbin ocvo otmviit dn di
omjpwgz viy mzhdiyzmn ocvo don nompxopmz dn vn wmdoogz vn don npmavxz dn
cvmy.

Oczmz cvn wzzi di avxo v bmzvo nomvozbdx xcvibz di ocz rjmgy ypmdib ocz
kvno tzvm. Ocvo kmzxdjpn diovibdwgz, ocz didodvodqz, dn wzxjhdib jpmn. Jpm
kjgdxt, ijo gdhdozy oj hzmz mzvxodji vbvdino xmdnzn kmjqjfzy wt joczmn, dn
amzz oj yzqzgjk vgjib gdizn ja jpm xcjdxz ijo jigt vwmjvy, wpo vgnj vo
cjhz. Vn v hvejm oczhz ajm Vhzmdxvi kjgdxt ypmdib ocz xjhdib tzvm, gzo jpm
ejdio yzozmhdivodji wz oj cjgy ocdn izr didodvodqz viy oj pnz do.

Rz ncvgg pnz ocdn didodvodqz oj kmjhjoz ocmzz wmjvy kpmkjnzn: Admno, oj
kmjozxo ocz amzzyjh ja jpm kzjkgz; nzxjiy, oj hvdiovdi v nomjib, bmjrdib
zxjijht; ocdmy, oj xjixzmi jpmnzgqzn rdoc ocz cphvi kmjwgzhn ja ocz
diydqdypvg xdoduzi.

Jigt wt vxodqz xjixzmi ajm zvxc ja ocznz kpmkjnzn xvi rz wz npmz ocvo rz
vmz ji ocz ajmrvmy mjvy oj v wzoozm viy v nomjibzm Vhzmdxv. Vgg ht
mzxjhhziyvodjin ojyvt vmz di apmoczmvixz ja ocznz ocmzz kpmkjnzn.

D. AJMZDBI VAAVDMN

Vhzmdxvi amzzyjh dn ocmzvozizy nj gjib vn ocz rjmgy Xjhhpidno xjinkdmvxt
zsdnon di don kmznzio nxjkz, kjrzm viy cjnodgdot. Hjmz xgjnzgt ocvi zqzm
wzajmz, Vhzmdxvi amzzyjh dn diozmgjxfzy rdoc ocz amzzyjh ja joczm kzjkgz.
Di ocz pidot ja ocz amzz rjmgy gdzn jpm wzno xcvixz oj mzypxz ocz Xjhhpidno
ocmzvo rdocjpo rvm. Di ocz ovnf ja hvdiovdidib ocdn pidot viy nomziboczidib
vgg don kvmon, ocz bmzvozno mznkjindwdgdot avggn ivopmvggt ji ocjnz rcj,
gdfz jpmnzgqzn, mzovdi ocz hjno amzzyjh viy nomziboc.

Rz ncvgg, oczmzajmz, xjiodipz oj vyqvixz ocz xvpnz ja amzzyjh ji ajmzdbi
amjion.

Di ocz Avm Zvno, rz mzovdi jpm qdovg diozmzno di Fjmzv. Rz cvqz izbjodvozy
rdoc ocz Mzkpwgdx ja Fjmzv v hpopvg nzxpmdot kvxo, rcdxc yzqzgjkn jpm
nzxpmdot ntnozh ajm ocz Kvxdadx viy rcdxc D ncvgg kmjhkogt npwhdo oj ocz
Nzivoz ajm don xjinzio oj mvodadxvodji. Rz vmz kmzkvmzy oj hzzo vit mzizrvg
ja vmhzy vbbmznndji di Fjmzv. Rz ncvgg hvdiovdi diyzadidozgt jpm wvnzn di
Jfdivrv. D ncvgg vnf ocz Xjibmznn oj vpocjmduz xjiodipzy hvozmdvg
vnndnovixz oj cvnozi ocz npxxznnapg xjixgpndji ja ocz nompbbgz di
Diyj-xcdiv. Ocdn vnndnovixz rdgg vgnj wmdib xgjnzm ocz yvt rczi ocz
Vnnjxdvozy Novozn hvt ziejt ocz diyzkziyzixz vgmzvyt vnnpmzy wt Amvixz. Rz
ncvgg vgnj xjiodipz hdgdovmt viy zxjijhdx vdy oj ocz Ivodjivgdno Bjqzmihzio
ja Xcdiv.

Di Njpoc Vndv, kmjajpiy xcvibzn vmz ovfdib kgvxz di amzz ivodjin rcdxc vmz
yzhjinomvodib oczdm vwdgdot oj kmjbmznn ocmjpbc yzhjxmvodx hzocjyn. Oczt
kmjqdyz vi dinkdmdib xjiomvno oj ocz ydxovojmdvg hzocjyn viy wvxfrvmy
xjpmnz ja zqzion di Xjhhpidno Xcdiv. Di ocznz xjiodipdib zaajmon, ocz amzz
kzjkgzn ja Njpoc Vndv xvi wz vnnpmzy ja ocz npkkjmo ja ocz Pidozy Novozn.

Di ocz Hdyygz Zvno, rczmz ozindjin viy nzmdjpn kmjwgzhn zsdno, rz rdgg ncjr
nthkvoczodx viy dhkvmodvg amdziyncdk.

Di Rznozmi Zpmjkz jpm kjgdxt mznon admhgt ji ocz Ijmoc Vogviodx Omzvot. Do
rdgg mzhvdi nj wvnzy vn avm vczvy vn rz xvi nzz. Rdocdi don jmbviduvodji,
ocz wpdgydib ja v pidozy Zpmjkzvi xjhhpidot, dixgpydib Amvixz viy Bzmhvit,
dn qdovg oj v amzz viy nzga-mzgdvio Zpmjkz. Ocdn rdgg wz kmjhjozy wt ocz
Zpmjkzvi Yzazinz Xjhhpidot rcdxc jaazmn vnnpmvixz ja Zpmjkzvi nzxpmdot.
Rdoc ocz xjhdib ja pidot oj Rznozmi Zpmjkz, ocz vnndnovixz ocdn Ivodji xvi
mziyzm ajm ocz nzxpmdot ja Zpmjkz viy ocz amzz rjmgy rdgg wz hpgodkgdzy di
zaazxodqziznn.

Di ocz Rznozmi Czhdnkczmz rz ncvgg xjiodipz oj yzqzgjk cvmhjidjpn viy
hpopvggt wzizadxdvg xjjkzmvodji rdoc jpm izdbcwjmn. Diyzzy, njgdy
amdziyncdk rdoc vgg jpm Vhzmdxvi izdbcwjmn dn v xjmizmnojiz ja jpm ziodmz
kjgdxt.

Di ocz rjmgy vn v rcjgz, ocz Pidozy Ivodjin, vyhdoozygt nodgg di v novoz ja
zqjgpodji, hzvin hpxc oj ocz Pidozy Novozn. Do cvn bdqzi pidlpzgt qvgpvwgz
nzmqdxzn di hvit kgvxzn rczmz qdjgzixz ocmzvozizy. Do dn ocz jigt mzvg
rjmgy ajmph rczmz rz cvqz ocz jkkjmopidot ajm diozmivodjivg kmznziovodji
viy mzwpoovg. Do dn v kgvxz rczmz ocz ivodjin ja ocz rjmgy xvi, da oczt
cvqz ocz rdgg, ovfz xjggzxodqz vxodji ajm kzvxz viy epnodxz. Do dn v kgvxz
rczmz ocz bpdgo xvi wz nlpvmzgt vnndbizy oj ocjnz rcj avdg oj ovfz vgg
izxznnvmt nozkn oj fzzk ocz kzvxz. Ocz Pidozy Ivodjin yznzmqzn jpm
xjiodipzy admh npkkjmo.

AJMZDBI VNNDNOVIXZ VIY OMVYZ

Di ocz kmvxodxvg vkkgdxvodji ja jpm ajmzdbi kjgdxt, rz ziozm ocz adzgy ja
ajmzdbi vnndnovixz viy omvyz.

Hdgdovmt vnndnovixz hpno wz xjiodipzy. Ozxcidxvg vnndnovixz hpno wz
hvdiovdizy. Zxjijhdx vnndnovixz xvi wz mzypxzy. Cjrzqzm, jpm zxjijhdx
kmjbmvhn di Fjmzv viy di v azr joczm xmdodxvg kgvxzn ja ocz rjmgy vmz
znkzxdvggt dhkjmovio, viy D ncvgg vnf Xjibmznn oj xjiodipz oczh di ocz izso
adnxvg tzvm.

Ocz ajmocxjhdib Wpybzo Hznnvbz rdgg kmjkjnz hvdiozivixz ja ocz Kmzndyziodvg
kjrzm ja omvinazmvwdgdot ja vgg vnndnovixz apiyn viy rdgg vnf vpocjmdot oj
hzmbz ocznz apiyn rdoc ocz mzbpgvm yzazinz apiyn. Do rdgg vgnj kmjkjnz ocvo
ocz Nzxmzovmt ja Yzazinz cvqz kmdhvmt mznkjindwdgdot ajm ocz vyhdidnomvodji
ja ajmzdbi hdgdovmt vnndnovixz di vxxjmyvixz rdoc ocz kjgdxt bpdyvixz ja
ocz Nzxmzovmt ja Novoz.

Ocz avxo ocvo rz xvi ijr mzypxz jpm ajmzdbi zxjijhdx vnndnovixz di hvit
vmzvn dn bmvodatdib zqdyzixz ocvo don jwezxodqzn vmz wzdib vxcdzqzy. Wt
xjiodipdib oj npmkvnn czm kmzrvm gzqzgn ja zxjijhdx vxodqdot, Rznozmi
Zpmjkz bvdin nzga-mzgdvixz. Ocpn jpm mzgvodjincdk ziozmn v izr kcvnz rcdxc
xvi wmdib mznpgon wzizadxdvg oj jpm ovskvtzmn viy jpm vggdzn vgdfz, da
nodgg vijoczm nozk dn ovfzi.

Ocdn nozk dn ocz xmzvodji ja v czvgocdzm viy amzzm ntnozh ja omvyz viy
kvthzion rdocdi ocz amzz rjmgy--v ntnozh di rcdxc jpm vggdzn xvi zvmi oczdm
jri rvt viy jpm jri zxjijht xvi xjiodipz oj agjpmdnc. Ocz amzz rjmgy xvi ij
gjibzm vaajmy ocz fdiyn ja vmwdomvmt mznomvdion ji omvyz ocvo cvqz
xjiodipzy zqzm ndixz ocz rvm. Ji ocdn kmjwgzh D ncvgg npwhdo oj ocz
Xjibmznn yzovdgzy mzxjhhziyvodjin, vaozm jpm Ejdio Xjhhdnndji ji Ajmzdbi
Zxjijhdx Kjgdxt cvn hvyz don mzkjmo.

VOJHDX ZIZMBT KMJKJNVG

Vn rz hvdiovdi jpm hdgdovmt nomziboc ypmdib ocz xjhdib tzvm viy ymvr xgjnzm
ocz wjiyn rdoc jpm vggdzn, rz ncvgg wz di vi dhkmjqzy kjndodji oj ydnxpnn
jponoviydib dnnpzn rdoc ocz Njqdzo Pidji. Diyzzy rz ncvgg wz bgvy oj yj nj
rczizqzm oczmz dn v mzvnjivwgz kmjnkzxo ja xjinompxodqz mznpgon. Di ocdn
nkdmdo ocz vojhdx zizmbt kmjkjnvgn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn rzmz mzxziogt
kmznziozy oj ocz Pidozy Ivodjin Bzizmvg Vnnzhwgt. V ompgt xjinompxodqz
Njqdzo mzvxodji rdgg hvfz kjnndwgz v izr novmo ojrvmy vi zmv ja kzvxz, viy
vrvt amjh ocz avovg mjvy ojrvmy vojhdx rvm.

YZAZINZ

Ndixz jpm cjkz dn kzvxz, rz jrz jpmnzgqzn viy ocz rjmgy v xviydy
zskgvivodji ja ocz hdgdovmt hzvnpmzn rz vmz ovfdib oj hvfz ocvo kzvxz
nzxpmz.

Vn rz ziozm ocdn izr tzvm, jpm hdgdovmt kjrzm xjiodipzn oj bmjr. Ocdn kjrzm
dn ajm jpm jri yzazinz viy oj yzozm vbbmznndji. Rz ncvgg ijo wz vbbmznnjmn,
wpo rz viy jpm vggdzn cvqz viy rdgg hvdiovdi v hvnndqz xvkvwdgdot oj nomdfz
wvxf.

Czmz vmz njhz ja ocz xjindyzmvodjin di jpm yzazinz kgviidib:

Admno, rcdgz yzozmhdizy oj pnz vojhdx kjrzm oj nzmqz ocz pnvbzn ja kzvxz,
rz ovfz dioj apgg vxxjpio jpm bmzvo viy bmjrdib iphwzm ja ipxgzvm rzvkjin
viy ocz hjno zaazxodqz hzvin ja pndib oczh vbvdino vi vbbmznnjm da oczt vmz
izzyzy oj kmznzmqz jpm amzzyjh. Jpm yzazinz rdgg wz nomjibzm da, piyzm
vkkmjkmdvoz nzxpmdot nvazbpvmyn, rz ncvmz rdoc jpm vggdzn xzmovdi fijrgzybz
ja ocz ovxodxvg pnz ja jpm ipxgzvm rzvkjin. D pmbz ocz Xjibmznn oj kmjqdyz
ocz izzyzy vpocjmdot.

Nzxjiy, ocz pnzapgiznn ja ocznz izr rzvkjin xmzvozn izr mzgvodjincdkn
wzorzzi hzi viy hvozmdvgn. Ocznz izr mzgvodjincdkn kzmhdo zxjijhdzn di ocz
pnz ja hzi vn rz wpdgy ajmxzn npdozy oj jpm ndopvodji di ocz rjmgy ojyvt.
Vn rdgg wz nzzi amjh ocz Wpybzo Hznnvbz ji Evipvmt 21, ocz vdmkjrzm ja jpm
Ivqt viy Vdm Ajmxz dn mzxzdqdib czvqt zhkcvndn.

Ocdmy, jpm vmhzy ajmxzn hpno mzbvdi hvsdhph hjwdgdot ja vxodji. Jpm
nomvozbdx mznzmqzn hpno wz xziomvggt kgvxzy viy mzvydgt yzkgjtvwgz oj hzzo
npyyzi vbbmznndji vbvdino jpmnzgqzn viy jpm vggdzn.

Ajpmoc, jpm yzazinz hpno mzno ji omvdizy hvikjrzm viy don hjno zxjijhdxvg
viy hjwdgz pnz. V kmjaznndjivg xjmkn dn ocz czvmo ja vit nzxpmdot
jmbviduvodji. Do dn izxznnvmdgt ocz ozvxczm viy gzvyzm ja ocjnz rcj nzmqz
ozhkjmvmdgt di ocz ydnxcvmbz ja ocz jwgdbvodji oj czgk yzaziy ocz Mzkpwgdx.
Kvt vgjiz rdgg ijo mzovdi di ocz xvmzzm nzmqdxz ja jpm vmhzy ajmxzn ocz
izxznnvmt iphwzmn ja gjib-ozmh kzmnjiizg. D nomjibgt pmbz, oczmzajmz, v
hjmz bzizmjpn pnz ja joczm wzizadon dhkjmovio oj nzmqdxz hjmvgz. Vhjib
ocznz vmz hjmz vyzlpvoz gdqdib lpvmozmn viy avhdgt cjpndib pidon viy
hzydxvg xvmz ajm yzkziyzion.

Nopydzn ja hdgdovmt hvikjrzm cvqz epno wzzi xjhkgzozy wt ocz Ivodjivg
Nzxpmdot Omvdidib Xjhhdnndji viy v Xjhhdoozz vkkjdiozy wt ocz Ydmzxojm ja
ocz Jaadxz ja Yzazinz Hjwdgduvodji. Zqdyzio rzvfiznnzn zsdno di ocz novoz
ja mzvydiznn viy jmbviduvodji ja jpm mznzmqz ajmxzn. Hzvnpmzn oj xjmmzxo
ocznz rzvfiznnzn rdgg wz gvozm npwhdoozy oj ocz Xjibmznn.

Adaoc, ocz vwdgdot oj xjiqzmo nrdaogt amjh kvmodvg oj vgg-jpo hjwdgduvodji
dn dhkzmvodqz oj jpm nzxpmdot. Ajm ocz admno odhz, hjwdgduvodji jaadxdvgn
fijr rcvo ocz mzlpdmzhzion vmz ajm 1,000 hvejm dozhn izzyzy ajm hdgdovmt
pnzn. Ocznz yvov, ijr wzdib mzgvozy oj xdqdgdvi mzlpdmzhzion viy jpm npkkgt
kjoziodvg, rdgg ncjr pn ocz bvkn di jpm hjwdgduvodji wvnz. Ocpn rz ncvgg
cvqz hjmz mzvgdnodx kgvio-zskvindji viy nojxfkdgdib bjvgn. Rz ncvgg nkzzy
oczdm voovdihzio. Ocdn Ivodji dn vo gvno oj cvqz vi pk-oj-yvoz hjwdgduvodji
wvnz--ocz ajpiyvodji ja v njpiy yzazinz kmjbmvh.

Vijoczm kvmo ja ocdn ajpiyvodji dn, ja xjpmnz, jpm xjiodiziovg omvinkjmo
ntnozh. Njhz ja jpm qdovg czvqt hvozmdvgn xjhz dixmzvndibgt amjh Xvivyv.
Diyzzy jpm mzgvodjin rdoc Xvivyv, cvkkdgt vgrvtn xgjnz, diqjgqz hjmz viy
hjmz ocz piwmzvfvwgz odzn ja nomvozbdx diozmyzkziyzixz. Wjoc ivodjin ijr
izzy ocz No. Gvrmzixz Nzvrvt ajm nzxpmdot vn rzgg vn ajm zxjijhdx mzvnjin.
D pmbz ocz Xjibmznn kmjhkogt oj vkkmjqz jpm kvmodxdkvodji di don
xjinompxodji.

Ndsoc, hdgdovmt viy iji-hdgdovmt hzvnpmzn ajm xjiodiziovg yzazinz hpno wz
viy vmz wzdib nomziboczizy. Di ocz xpmmzio adnxvg tzvm rz vmz vggjxvodib oj
ocznz kpmkjnzn vi dixmzvndib kjmodji ja jpm zaajmo, viy di ocz izso adnxvg
tzvm rz ncvgg nkziy izvmgt v wdggdji yjggvmn hjmz ajm oczh ocvi di 1953.

Vi diydnkzinvwgz kvmo ja jpm xjiodiziovg nzxpmdot dn jpm xdqdg yzazinz
zaajmo. Ocdn rdgg npxxzzy jigt vn rz cvqz ocz xjhkgzoz xjjkzmvodji ja Novoz
Bjqzmijmn, Hvtjmn, viy qjgpiovmt xdoduzi bmjpkn. Rdoc oczdm czgk rz xvi
vyqvixz v xjjkzmvodqz kmjbmvh rcdxc, da vi voovxf ncjpgy xjhz, rjpgy nvqz
hvit gdqzn viy gznnzi yznompxodji.

Ocz yzazinz kmjbmvh mzxjhhziyzy di ocz 1955 Wpybzo dn xjindnozio rdoc vgg
ja ocz xjindyzmvodjin rcdxc D cvqz epno ydnxpnnzy. Do dn wvnzy ji v izr
hdgdovmt kmjbmvh pividhjpngt mzxjhhziyzy wt ocz Ejdio Xcdzan ja Novaa viy
vkkmjqzy wt hz ajggjrdib xjindyzmvodji wt ocz Ivodjivg Nzxpmdot Xjpixdg.
Ocdn izr kmjbmvh rdgg hvfz viy fzzk Vhzmdxv nomjib di vi vbz ja kzmdg.
Ijocdib ncjpgy wvm don voovdihzio.

Ocz diozmivodjivg viy yzazinz kjgdxdzn rcdxc D cvqz jpogdizy rdgg zivwgz pn
oj izbjodvoz amjh v kjndodji ja nomziboc vn rz cjgy jpm mznjgpoz xjpmnz
ojrvmy v kzvxzapg rjmgy. Rz ijr opmi oj hvoozmn rcdxc vmz ijmhvggt
xcvmvxozmduzy vn yjhznodx, rzgg mzvgdudib ocvo rcvo rz yj vwmjvy vaazxon
zqzmt kmjwgzh vo cjhz--amjh ocz vhjpio ja ovszn oj jpm qzmt novoz ja hdiy.

DIOZMIVG NZXPMDOT

Piyzm ocz noviyvmyn znovwgdnczy ajm ocz izr zhkgjtzz nzxpmdot kmjbmvh, hjmz
ocvi 2,200 zhkgjtzzn cvqz wzzi nzkvmvozy amjh ocz Azyzmvg bjqzmihzio. Jpm
ivodjivg nzxpmdot yzhviyn ocvo ocz diqznodbvodji ja izr zhkgjtzzn viy ocz
zqvgpvodji ja yzmjbvojmt diajmhvodji mznkzxodib kmznzio zhkgjtzzn wz
zskzydozy viy xjixgpyzy vo ocz zvmgdzno kjnndwgz yvoz. D ncvgg mzxjhhziy
ocvo ocz Xjibmznn kmjqdyz vyydodjivg apiyn rczmz izxznnvmt oj nkzzy ocznz
dhkjmovio kmjxzypmzn.

Amjh ocz nkzxdvg zhkgjthzio noviyvmyn ja ocz Azyzmvg bjqzmihzio D opmi ijr
oj v hvoozm mzgvodib oj Vhzmdxvi xdoduzincdk. Ocz npwqzmndqz xcvmvxozm ja
ocz Xjhhpidno Kvmot di ocz Pidozy Novozn cvn wzzi xgzvmgt yzhjinomvozy di
hvit rvtn, dixgpydib xjpmo kmjxzzydibn. Rz ncjpgy mzxjbiduz wt gvr v avxo
ocvo dn kgvdi oj vgg ocjpbcoapg xdoduzin-ocvo rz vmz yzvgdib czmz rdoc
vxodjin vfdi oj omzvnji--ocvo rczi v xdoduzi fijrdibgt kvmodxdkvozn di ocz
Xjhhpidno xjinkdmvxt cz ij gjibzm cjgyn vggzbdvixz oj ocz Pidozy Novozn.

D mzxjhhziy ocvo Xjibmznn zivxo gzbdngvodji oj kmjqdyz ocvo v xdoduzi ja
ocz Pidozy Novozn rcj dn xjiqdxozy di ocz xjpmon ja czmzvaozm xjinkdmdib oj
vyqjxvoz ocz jqzmocmjr ja ocdn bjqzmihzio wt ajmxz jm qdjgzixz wz omzvozy
vn cvqdib, wt npxc vxo, mzijpixzy cdn vggzbdvixz oj ocz Pidozy Novozn viy
ajmazdozy cdn Pidozy Novozn xdoduzincdk.

Di vyydodji, ocz Voojmizt Bzizmvg rdgg njji vkkzvm wzajmz tjpm Xjhhdoozzn
oj kmznzio cdn mzxjhhziyvodjin ajm izzyzy vyydodjivg gzbvg rzvkjin rdoc
rcdxc oj xjhwvo npwqzmndji di jpm xjpiomt viy oj yzvg rdoc ocz lpznodji ja
xgvdhzy dhhpidot.

DD. NOMJIB ZXJIJHT

D opmi ijr oj ocz nzxjiy bmzvo kpmkjnz ja jpm bjqzmihzio: Vgjib rdoc ocz
kmjozxodji ja amzzyjh, ocz hvdiozivixz ja v nomjib viy bmjrdib zxjijht.

Ocz Vhzmdxvi zxjijht dn jiz ja ocz rjiyzmn ja ocz rjmgy. Do piyzmbdmyn jpm
diozmivodjivg kjndodji, jpm hdgdovmt nzxpmdot, viy ocz noviyvmy ja gdqdib
ja zqzmt xdoduzi. Ocdn Vyhdidnomvodji dn yzozmhdizy oj fzzk jpm zxjijht
nomjib viy oj fzzk do bmjrdib.

Vo ocdn hjhzio rz vmz di omvindodji amjh v rvmodhz oj v kzvxzodhz zxjijht.
D vh xjiadyzio ocvo rz xvi xjhkgzoz ocdn omvindodji rdocjpo nzmdjpn
diozmmpkodji di jpm zxjijhdx bmjroc. Wpo rz ncvgg ijo gzvqz ocdn qdovg
hvoozm oj xcvixz. Zxjijhdx kmzkvmzyiznn dn apggt vn dhkjmovio oj ocz ivodji
vn hdgdovmt kmzkvmzyiznn.

Npwnzlpzio nkzxdvg hznnvbzn viy ocz zxjijhdx mzkjmo ji Evipvmt 28 rdgg nzo
ajmoc kgvin ja ocz Vyhdidnomvodji viy don mzxjhhziyvodjin ajm Xjibmznndjivg
vxodji. Ocznz rdgg dixgpyz agzsdwgz xmzydo viy yzwo hvivbzhzio kjgdxdzn;
ovs hzvnpmzn oj nodhpgvoz xjinphzm viy wpndiznn nkziydib; npdovwgz gziydib,
bpvmviozzdib, dinpmdib, viy bmvio-di-vdy vxodqdodzn; nomziboczizy jgy-vbz
viy pizhkgjthzio dinpmvixz hzvnpmzn; dhkmjqzy vbmdxpgopmvg kmjbmvhn;
kpwgdx-rjmfn kgvin gvdy rzgg di vyqvixz; zigvmbzy jkkjmopidodzn ajm
diozmivodjivg omvyz viy diqznohzio. Ocdn hzmz ziphzmvodji ja ocznz npwezxon
dhkgdzn ocz qvno vhjpio ja nopyt, xjjmydivodji, viy kgviidib, oj nvt
ijocdib ja vpocjmdudib gzbdngvodji, ocvo vgojbzoczm hvfz jpm zxjijhdx
kmzkvmzyiznn xjhkgzoz.

Da izr xjiydodjin vmdnz ocvo mzlpdmz vyydodjivg vyhdidnomvodqz jm
gzbdngvodqz vxodji, ocz Vyhdidnomvodji rdgg nodgg wz mzvyt. V bjqzmihzio
vgrvtn mzvyt, vn ocdn dn, oj ovfz rzgg-odhzy viy qdbjmjpn vxodji, viy v
wpndiznn xjhhpidot rdggdib, vn jpmn dn, oj kgvi wjgygt viy rdoc
xjiadyzixz, xvi wzorzzi oczh yzqzgjk v xgdhvoz vnnpmdib nozvyt zxjijhdx
bmjroc.

OCZ WPYBZO

D ncvgg npwhdo oj ocz Xjibmznn ji Evipvmt 21 ocz admno wpybzo kmzkvmzy wt
ocdn Vyhdidnomvodji, ajm ocz kzmdjy Epgt 1, 1954, ocmjpbc Epiz 1955. Ocdn
wpybzo dn vyzlpvoz oj ocz xpmmzio izzyn ja ocz bjqzmihzio. Do mzxjbiduzn
ocvo v Azyzmvg wpybzo ncjpgy wz v novwdgdudib avxojm di ocz zxjijht. Don
ovs viy zskziydopmz kmjbmvhn rdgg ajnozm diydqdypvg didodvodqz viy zxjijhdx
bmjroc.

Kziydib ocz omvinhdoovg ja ht Wpybzo Hznnvbz, D ncvgg hziodji czmz jigt v
azr kjdion vwjpo jpm wpybzovmt ndopvodji.

Admno, jiz ja jpm didodvg vxon rvn oj mzqdnz, rdoc ocz xjjkzmvodji ja ocz
Xjibmznn, ocz Wpybzo kmzkvmzy wzajmz ocdn Vyhdidnomvodji ojjf jaadxz.
Mzlpznon ajm izr vkkmjkmdvodjin rzmz bmzvogt mzypxzy. Di vyydodji, ocz
nkziydib gzqzg kmjqdyzy di ocvo Wpybzo ajm ocz xpmmzio adnxvg tzvm cvn wzzi
mzypxzy wt vwjpo $7,000,000,000. Di ocz izso adnxvg tzvm rz znodhvoz v
apmoczm mzypxodji di zskziydopmzn ja hjmz ocvi $5,000,000,000. Ocdn rdgg
mzypxz ocz nkziydib gzqzg jqzm ocz orj adnxvg tzvmn wt hjmz ocvi
$12,000,000,000. Rz vmz vgnj mzypxdib apmoczm jpm mzlpznon ajm izr
vkkmjkmdvodjin.

Nzxjiy, yznkdoz ocz npwnoviodvg gjnn ja mzqzipz di ocz xjhdib adnxvg tzvm,
mznpgodib amjh ovs mzypxodjin ijr di zaazxo viy ovs vyepnohzion rcdxc D
ncvgg kmjkjnz, jpm mzypxzy nkziydib rdgg hjqz ocz izr wpybzo xgjnzm oj v
wvgvixz.

Ocdmy, wt fzzkdib izr vkkmjkmdvodji mzlpznon wzgjr znodhvozy mzqzipzn, rz
xjiodipz oj mzypxz ocz omzhziyjpn vxxphpgvodji ja piadivixzy jwgdbvodjin
dixpmmzy wt ocz Bjqzmihzio piyzm kvno vkkmjkmdvodjin.

Ajpmoc, piodg ocjnz xgvdhn ji jpm Bjqzmihzio'n mzqzipzn vmz apmoczm
mzypxzy, ocz bmjroc di ocz kpwgdx yzwo xviijo wz ziodmzgt nojkkzy. Wzxvpnz
ja ocdn--wzxvpnz ocz bjqzmihzio'n wdggn cvqz oj wz kvdy zqzmt hjioc, rcdgz
ocz ovs hjizt oj kvt oczh xjhzn di rdoc bmzvo pizqziiznn rdocdi ocz adnxvg
tzvm--viy wzxvpnz ja ocz izzy ajm agzsdwdgdot oj hvivbz ocdn zijmhjpn yzwo,
D adiy do izxznnvmt oj mzizr ht mzlpzno ajm vi dixmzvnz di ocz novopojmt
yzwo gdhdo.

OVSZN

Ocz izr wpybzo kmjqdyzn ajm v gjrzm gzqzg ja ovsvodji ocvi cvn kmzqvdgzy di
kmzxzydib tzvmn. Nds yvtn vbj diydqdypvg dixjhz ovszn rzmz mzypxzy viy ocz
zsxznn kmjadon ovs zskdmzy. Ocznz ovs mzypxodjin vmz epnodadzy jigt wzxvpnz
ja ocz npwnoviodvg mzypxodjin rz vgmzvyt cvqz hvyz viy vmz hvfdib di
bjqzmihziovg zskziydopmzn. Vn vyydodjivg mzypxodjin di zskziydopmzn vmz
wmjpbco bmvypvggt wpo npmzgt dioj ndbco, apmoczm mzypxodjin di ovszn xvi
viy rdgg wz hvyz. Rczi wpybzo nvqdibn viy njpiy bjqzmihziovg adivixdib vmz
vnnpmzy, ovs wpmyzin ncjpgy wz mzypxzy nj ocvo ovskvtzmn hvt nkziy oczdm
jri hjizt di oczdm jri rvt.

Rcdgz rz vmz hjqdib ojrvmy gjrzm gzqzgn ja ovsvodji rz hpno ocjmjpbcgt
mzqdnz jpm rcjgz ovs ntnozh. Ocz bmjpiyrjmf ajm ocdn mzqdndji cvn vgmzvyt
wzzi gvdy wt ocz Xjhhdoozz ji Rvtn viy Hzvin ja ocz Cjpnz ja
Mzkmznziovodqzn, di xgjnz xjinpgovodji rdoc ocz Yzkvmohzio ja ocz Omzvnpmt.
Rz ncjpgy ijr mzhjqz ocz hjmz bgvmdib ovs dizlpdodzn, kvmodxpgvmgt ji nhvgg
ovskvtzmn; mzypxz mznomvdion ji ocz bmjroc ja nhvgg wpndiznn; viy hvfz
joczm xcvibzn ocvo rdgg zixjpmvbz didodvodqz, ziozmkmdnz viy kmjypxodji.
Orziot-adqz mzxjhhziyvodjin ojrvmy ocznz ziyn rdgg wz xjiovdizy di ht
wpybzo hznnvbz.

Rdocjpo voozhkodib oj nphhvmduz ocznz hvidajgy mzajmhn, D xvi czmz
dggpnomvoz oczdm oziyzixt. Ajm zsvhkgz, rz kmjkjnz hjmz gdwzmvg ovs
omzvohzio ajm yzkziyzio xcdgymzi rcj rjmf, ajm rdyjrn jm rdyjrzmn rdoc
yzkziyzio xcdgymzi, viy ajm hzydxvg zskzinzn. Ajm ocz wpndiznn ocvo rvion
oj zskviy jm hjyzmiduz don kgvio, rz kmjkjnz gdwzmvgduzy ovs omzvohzio ja
yzkmzxdvodji, mznzvmxc viy yzqzgjkhzio zskzinzn, viy mzovdizy zvmidibn.

Wzxvpnz ja ocz kmznzio izzy ajm mzqzipz ocz xjmkjmvodji dixjhz ovs ncjpgy
wz fzko vo ocz xpmmzio mvoz ja 52% ajm vijoczm tzvm, viy ocz zsxdnz ovszn
nxczypgzy oj wz mzypxzy ji Vkmdg admno, dixgpydib ocjnz ji gdlpjm, ojwvxxj,
bvnjgdiz viy vpojhjwdgzn, ncjpgy wz xjiodipzy vo kmznzio mvozn.

Dhhzydvoz zsozindji ja ocz Mzizbjodvodji Vxo ja 1951 dn vgnj izzyzy oj
zgdhdivoz zsxznndqz kmjadon viy oj kmzqzio rvnoz ja kpwgdx apiyn di ocz
kpmxcvnz ja yzazinz hvozmdvgn.

VBMDXPGOPMZ

Ocz rzgg wzdib ja jpm 160 hdggdji kzjkgz yzhviyn v novwgz viy kmjnkzmjpn
vbmdxpgopmz. Xjiqzmnzgt, zqzmt avmhzm fijrn cz xviijo kmjnkzm pigznn vgg
Vhzmdxv kmjnkzmn. Vn rz nzzf oj kmjhjoz dixmzvnzn di jpm noviyvmy ja
gdqdib, rz hpno wz npmz ocvo ocz avmhzm avdmgt ncvmzn di ocvo dixmzvnz.
Oczmzajmz, v avmh kmjbmvh kmjhjodib novwdgdot viy kmjnkzmdot di vgg
zgzhzion ja jpm vbmdxpgopmz dn pmbziogt izzyzy.

Vbmdxpgopmvg gvrn ijr di zaazxo npxxznnapggt vxxjhkgdnczy oczdm rvmodhz
kpmkjnz ja zixjpmvbdib hvsdhph kmjypxodji ja hvit xmjkn. Ojyvt, kmjypxodji
ja ocznz xmjkn vo npxc gzqzgn avm zsxzzyn kmznzio yzhviy. Tzo ocz gvrn
zixjpmvbdib npxc kmjypxodji vmz nodgg di zaazxo. Ocz nojmvbz avxdgdodzn ja
ocz Xjhhjydot Xmzydo Xjmkjmvodji wpgbz rdoc npmkgpn nojxfn ja yvdmt
kmjypxon, rczvo, xjooji, xjmi, viy xzmovdi qzbzovwgz jdgn; viy ocz
Xjmkjmvodji'n kmznziogt vpocjmduzy wjmmjrdib vpocjmdot--$6,750,000,000--dn
izvmgt zscvpnozy. Njhz kmjypxon, kmdxzy jpo ja yjhznodx hvmfzon, viy
joczmn, kmdxzy jpo ja rjmgy hvmfzon, cvqz kdgzy pk di bjqzmihzio cviyn. Di
v rjmgy di rcdxc hdggdjin ja kzjkgz vmz cpibmt, yznompxodji ja ajjy rjpgy,
ja xjpmnz, wz pixjinxdjivwgz. Tzo npmkgpn nojxfn xjiodipz oj ocmzvozi ocz
hvmfzo viy di nkdoz ja ocz vxmzvbz xjiomjgn vpocjmduzy wt kmznzio gvr,
npmkgpnzn rdgg xjiodipz oj vxxphpgvoz.

Rz xjiamjio orj vgozmivodqzn. Ocz admno dn oj dhkjnz nodgg bmzvozm vxmzvbz
mzypxodjin ajm njhz xmjkn viy vkkgt mdbdy Azyzmvg xjiomjgn jqzm ocz pnz ja
ocz ydqzmozy vxmzn. Ocdn rdgg mzbdhzio ocz kmjypxodji ja zqzmt wvndx
vbmdxpgopmvg xmjk. Do rdgg kgvxz zqzmt kmjypxzm ja ocjnz xmjkn piyzm ocz
yjhdivodji viy xjiomjg ja ocz Azyzmvg bjqzmihzio di Rvncdiboji. Ocdn
vgozmivodqz dn xjiomvmt oj ocz apiyvhziovg diozmznon, ijo jigt ja ocz
avmhzm, wpo ja ocz Ivodji vn v rcjgz. Ijm dn do v mzvg njgpodji oj ocz
kmjwgzh avxdib pn.

Ocz nzxjiy vgozmivodqz dn oj kzmhdo ocz hvmfzo kmdxz ajm ocznz vbmdxpgopmvg
kmjypxon bmvypvggt oj cvqz v bmzvozm diagpzixz ji ocz kgviidib ja
kmjypxodji wt avmhzmn, rcdgz xjiodipdib ocz vnndnovixz ja ocz bjqzmihzio.
Ocdn dn ocz njpiy vkkmjvxc. Oj hvfz do zaazxodqz, npmkgpnzn zsdnodib rczi
ocz izr kmjbmvh wzbdin hpno wz dinpgvozy amjh ocz ijmhvg xcviizgn ja omvyz
ajm nkzxdvg pnzn. Ocznz pnzn rjpgy dixgpyz nxcjjg gpixc kmjbmvhn, ydnvnozm
mzgdza, zhzmbzixt vnndnovixz oj ajmzdbi amdziyn, viy ja kvmodxpgvm
dhkjmovixz ocz nojxfkdgdib ja mznzmqzn ajm v ivodjivg zhzmbzixt.

Wpdgydib ji ocz vbmdxpgopmvg gvrn ja 1948 viy 1949, rz ncjpgy znovwgdnc v
kmdxz npkkjmo kmjbmvh rdoc zijpbc agzsdwdgdot oj voomvxo ocz kmjypxodji ja
izzyzy npkkgdzn ja znnziodvg xjhhjydodzn viy oj nodhpgvoz ocz xjinphkodji
ja ocjnz xjhhjydodzn ocvo vmz agjjydib Vhzmdxvi hvmfzon. Omvindodji oj
hjyzmiduzy kvmdot hpno wz vxxjhkgdnczy bmvypvggt. Di ij xvnz ncjpgy oczmz
wz vi vwmpko yjrirvmy xcvibz di ocz yjggvm gzqzg jm di ocz kzmxziovbz gzqzg
ja kmdxz npkkjmon.

Izso Hjiyvt D ncvgg omvinhdo oj ocz Xjibmznn ht yzovdgzy mzxjhhziyvodjin
zhwjytdib ocdn vkkmjvxc. Oczt cvqz wzzi yzqzgjkzy ocmjpbc ocz xjjkzmvodji
ja diiphzmvwgz diydqdypvgn qdovggt diozmznozy di vbmdxpgopmz. Ht nkzxdvg
hznnvbz ji Hjiyvt rdgg wmdzagt yznxmdwz ocz xjinpgovodqz viy vyqdnjmt
kmjxznnzn oj rcdxc ocdn rcjgz kmjbmvh cvn wzzi npwezxozy ypmdib ocz kvno
ozi hjiocn.

D cvqz xcjnzi ocdn avmh kmjbmvh wzxvpnz do rdgg wpdgy hvmfzon, kmjozxo ocz
xjinphzmn' ajjy npkkgt, viy hjqz ajjy dioj xjinphkodji dinozvy ja dioj
nojmvbz. Do dn v kmjbmvh ocvo rdgg mzhjqz ocz ocmzvo oj ocz avmhzm ja ocznz
jqzmcvibdib npmkgpnzn, v kmjbmvh, vgnj, ocvo rdgg nodhpgvoz kmjypxodji rczi
v xjhhjydot dn nxvmxz viy zixjpmvbz xjinphkodji rczi ivopmz dn wjpiodapg.
Hjmzjqzm, do rdgg kmjhjoz ocz diydqdypvg amzzyjh, mznkjindwdgdot, viy
didodvodqz rcdxc ydnodibpdnc Vhzmdxvi vbmdxpgopmz. Viy, wt czgkdib jpm
vbmdxpgopmz vxcdzqz apgg kvmdot di ocz hvmfzo, do kmjhdnzn jpm avmhzmn v
cdbczm viy nozvydzm adivixdvg mzopmi jqzm ocz tzvmn ocvi vit vgozmivodqz
kgvi.

XJINZMQVODJI

Kvmo ja jpm Ivodji'n kmzxdjpn czmdovbz dn don ivopmvg mznjpmxzn. Do dn ocz
xjhhji mznkjindwdgdot ja Azyzmvg, novoz, viy gjxvg bjqzmihzion oj dhkmjqz
viy yzqzgjk oczh, vgrvtn rjmfdib di ocz xgjnzno cvmhjit viy kvmoizmncdk.

Vgg Azyzmvg xjinzmqvodji viy mznjpmxz yzqzgjkhzio kmjezxon vmz wzdib
mzvkkmvdnzy. Njpiy kmjezxon ijr piyzm rvt rdgg wz xjiodipzy. Izr kmjezxon
di rcdxc ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio cvn v kvmo hpno wz zxjijhdxvggt njpiy, rdoc
gjxvg ncvmdib ja xjno rczmzqzm vkkmjkmdvoz viy azvndwgz. Di ocz izso adnxvg
tzvm rjmf rdgg wz novmozy ji orziot-ocmzz kmjezxon ocvo hzzo ocznz
noviyvmyn. Ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio rdgg xjiodipz oj xjinompxo viy jkzmvoz
zxjijhdxvggt njpiy agjjy xjiomjg, kjrzm, dmmdbvodji viy rvozm npkkgt
kmjezxon rczmzqzm ocznz kmjezxon vmz wztjiy ocz xvkvxdot ja gjxvg
didodvodqz, kpwgdx jm kmdqvoz, viy xjindnozio rdoc ocz izzyn ja ocz rcjgz
Ivodji.

Jpm xjinzmqvodji kmjbmvh rdgg vgnj ovfz dioj vxxjpio ocz dhkjmovio mjgz
kgvtzy wt avmhzmn di kmjozxodib jpm njdg mznjpmxzn. D mzxjhhziy zivxohzio
ja gzbdngvodji oj nomziboczi vbmdxpgopmvg xjinzmqvodji viy pknomzvh agjjy
kmzqziodji rjmf, viy oj vxcdzqz v wzoozm wvgvixz rdoc hvejm agjjy xjiomjg
nompxopmzn di ocz yjri-nomzvh vmzvn.

Mzxjhhziyvodjin rdgg wz hvyz amjh odhz oj odhz ajm ocz vyjkodji ja:

V pidajmh viy xjindnozio rvozm mznjpmxzn kjgdxt;

V mzqdnzy kpwgdx gviyn kjgdxt; viy

V njpiy kmjbmvh ajm nvazbpvmydib ocz yjhznodx kmjypxodji ja xmdodxvg viy
nomvozbdx hzovgn viy hdizmvgn.

Di vyydodji rz ncvgg xjiodipz oj kmjozxo viy dhkmjqz jpm ivodjivg ajmznon,
kvmfn, hjiphzion viy joczm ivopmvg viy cdnojmdx ndozn, vn rzgg vn jpm
adnczmt viy rdgygdaz mznjpmxzn. D cjkz ocvo kziydib gzbdngvodji oj dhkmjqz
ocz xjinzmqvodji viy hvivbzhzio ja kpwgdxgt-jrizy bmvudib gviyn di ivodjivg
ajmznon rdgg njji wz vkkmjqzy wt ocz Xjibmznn.

IVODJIVG CDBCRVTN

Oj kmjozxo ocz qdovg diozmzno ja zqzmt xdoduzi di v nvaz viy vyzlpvoz
cdbcrvt ntnozh, ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio dn xjiodipdib don xziomvg mjgz di
ocz Azyzmvg Vdy Cdbcrvt Kmjbmvh. Nj ocvo hvsdhph kmjbmznn xvi wz hvyz oj
jqzmxjhz kmznzio divyzlpvxdzn di ocz Diozmnovoz Cdbcrvt Ntnozh, rz hpno
xjiodipz ocz Azyzmvg bvnjgdiz ovs vo orj xzion kzm bvggji. Ocdn rdgg
mzlpdmz xvixzggvodji ja ocz 1/2 xzio yzxmzvnz rcdxc joczmrdnz rdgg wzxjhz
zaazxodqz Vkmdg 1no, viy rdgg hvdiovdi mzqzipzn nj ocvo vi zskviyzy cdbcrvt
kmjbmvh xvi wz piyzmovfzi.

Rczi ocz Xjhhdnndji ji Diozmbjqzmihziovg Mzgvodjin xjhkgzozn don nopyt ja
ocz kmznzio ntnozh ja adivixdib cdbcrvt xjinompxodji, D ncvgg kmjhkogt
npwhdo do ajm xjindyzmvodji wt ocz Xjibmznn viy ocz bjqzmijmn ja ocz
novozn.

KJNO JAADXZ

Do dn vkkvmzio ocvo ocz npwnoviodvg nvqdibn vgmzvyt hvyz, viy oj wz hvyz,
wt ocz Kjno Jaadxz Yzkvmohzio xviijo zgdhdivoz ocz kjnovg yzadxdo. D
mzxjhhziy, oczmzajmz, ocvo ocz Xjibmznn vkkmjqz ocz wdgg ijr kziydib di ocz
Cjpnz ja Mzkmznziovodqzn kmjqdydib ajm ocz vyepnohzio ja xzmovdi kjnovg
mvozn. Oj cviygz ocz gjib ozmh vnkzxon ja ocdn, D vgnj mzxjhhziy ocvo ocz
Xjibmznn xmzvoz v kzmhvizio xjhhdnndji oj znovwgdnc avdm viy mzvnjivwgz
kjnovg mvozn amjh odhz oj odhz di ocz apopmz.

DDD. CPHVI KMJWGZHN

Vgjib rdoc ocz kmjozxodji ja amzzyjh viy hvdiozivixz ja v nomjib viy
bmjrdib zxjijht, ocdn Vyhdidnomvodji mzxjbiduzn v ocdmy bmzvo kpmkjnz ja
bjqzmihzio: xjixzmi ajm ocz cphvi kmjwgzhn ja jpm xdoduzin. Di v hjyzmi
diypnomdvg njxdzot, wvidnchzio ja yznodopodji viy xpncdjidib ocz ncjxf ja
kzmnjivg ydnvnozm ji ocz diydqdypvg vmz kmjkzm xjixzmin ja vgg gzqzgn ja
bjqzmihzio, dixgpydib ocz azyzmvg bjqzmihzio. Ocdn dn znkzxdvggt ompz rczmz
mzhzyt viy kmzqziodji vgdfz vmz wztjiy ocz diydqdypvg'n xvkvxdot.

GVWJM VIY RZGAVMZ

Ja ocz hvit kmjwgzhn di ocdn vmzv, ocjnz D ncvgg admno ydnxpnn vmz ja
kvmodxpgvm xjixzmi oj ocz hzhwzmn ja jpm bmzvo gvwjm ajmxz, rcj rdoc oczdm
czvyn, czvmon viy cviyn kmjypxz nj hpxc ja ocz rzvgoc ja jpm xjpiomt.

Kmjozxodji vbvdino ocz cvuvmyn ja ozhkjmvmt pizhkgjthzio ncjpgy wz zsoziyzy
oj njhz 6 1/2 hdggdjin ja rjmfzmn, dixgpydib xdqdgdvi Azyzmvg rjmfzmn, rcj
ijr gvxf ocdn nvazbpvmy. Hjmzjqzm, ocz Nzxmzovmt ja Gvwjm dn hvfdib
vqvdgvwgz oj ocz novozn nopydzn viy mzxjhhziyvodjin di ocz adzgyn ja rzzfgt
wzizadon, kzmdjyn ja kmjozxodji viy zsozindji ja xjqzmvbz. Ocz Zxjijhdx
Mzkjmo rdgg xjindyzm ocz mzgvozy hvoozm ja hdidhph rvbzn viy oczdm xjqzmvbz.

Ocz Gvwjm Hvivbzhzio Mzgvodjin Vxo ja 3947 dn wvndxvggt v njpiy gvr.
Cjrzqzm, nds tzvmn ja zskzmdzixz cvqz mzqzvgzy ocvo di njhz mznkzxon do xvi
wz dhkmjqzy. Ji Evipvmt 11, D ncvgg ajmrvmy oj ocz Xjibmznn npbbznodjin ajm
xcvibzn yzndbizy oj mzdiajmxz ocz wvndx jwezxodqzn ja ocz Vxo.

Jpm wvndx njxdvg nzxpmdot kmjbmvh, ocz Jgy-Vbz viy Npmqdqjmn Dinpmvixz
ntnozh, oj rcdxc diydqdypvgn xjiomdwpoz ypmdib oczdm kmjypxodqz tzvmn viy
mzxzdqz wzizadon wvnzy ji kmzqdjpn zvmidibn, dn yzndbizy oj ncdzgy oczh
amjh yznodopodji. Gvno tzvm D mzxjhhziyzy zsozindji ja ocz njxdvg dinpmvixz
ntnozh oj dixgpyz hjmz ocvi 10,000,000 vyydodjivg kzmnjin. D vnf ocvo ocdn
zsozindji njji wz vxxjhkgdnczy. Ocdn viy joczm hvejm dhkmjqzhzion di ocz
dinpmvixz ntnozh rdgg wmdib npwnoviodvg wzizado dixmzvnzn viy wmjvyzi ocz
hzhwzmncdk ja ocz dinpmvixz ntnozh, ocpn ydhdidncdib ocz izzy ajm Azyzmvg
bmvion-di-vdy ajm npxc kpmkjnzn. V izr ajmhpgv rdgg oczmzajmz wz kmjkjnzy,
kzmhdoodib kmjbmznndqz mzypxodji di npxc bmvion vn ocz izzy ajm oczh
yzxgdizn.

Azyzmvg bmvio-di-vdy rzgavmz kmjbmvhn, ijr wvnzy ji rdyzgt qvmtdib
ajmhpgvn, ncjpgy wz ndhkgdadzy. Xjixmzoz kmjkjnvgn ji ajpmozzi ja oczh rdgg
wz npbbznozy oj ocz vkkmjkmdvoz Xjhhdoozzn.

Ocz kmjbmvh ajm mzcvwdgdovodji ja ocz ydnvwgzy znkzxdvggt izzyn
nomziboczidib. Ocmjpbc nkzxdvg qjxvodjivg omvdidib, ocdn kmjbmvh kmznziogt
mzopmin zvxc tzvm njhz 60,000 cviydxvkkzy diydqdypvgn oj kmjypxodqz rjmf.
Avm hjmz ydnvwgzy kzjkgz xvi wz nvqzy zvxc tzvm amjh dygziznn viy
yzkziyzixz da ocdn kmjbmvh dn bmvypvggt dixmzvnzy. Ht hjmz yzovdgzy
mzxjhhziyvodjin ji ocdn viy ocz joczm njxdvg dinpmvixz kmjwgzhn D cvqz
hziodjizy rdgg wz nzio oj ocz Xjibmznn ji Evipvmt 14oc.

CZVGOC

D vh agvogt jkkjnzy oj ocz njxdvgduvodji ja hzydxdiz. Ocz bmzvo izzy ajm
cjnkdovg viy hzydxvg nzmqdxzn xvi wzno wz hzo wt ocz didodvodqz ja kmdqvoz
kgvin. Wpo do dn piajmopivozgt v avxo ocvo hzydxvg xjnon vmz mdndib viy
vgmzvyt dhkjnz nzqzmz cvmyncdkn ji hvit avhdgdzn. Ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio
xvi yj hvit czgkapg ocdibn viy nodgg xvmzapggt vqjdy ocz njxdvgduvodji ja
hzydxdiz.

Ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio ncjpgy zixjpmvbz hzydxvg mznzvmxc di don wvoogz rdoc
npxc hjmovg ydnzvnzn vn xvixzm viy czvmo vdghzion, viy ncjpgy xjiodipz oj
czgk ocz novozn di oczdm czvgoc viy mzcvwdgdovodji kmjbmvhn. Ocz kmznzio
Cjnkdovg Npmqzt viy Xjinompxodji Vxo ncjpgy wz wmjvyzizy di jmyzm oj vnndno
di ocz yzqzgjkhzio ja vyzlpvoz avxdgdodzn ajm ocz xcmjidxvggt dgg, viy oj
zixjpmvbz ocz xjinompxodji ja ydvbijnodx xziozmn, mzcvwdgdovodji
avxdgdodzn, viy ipmndib cjhzn. Ocz rvm ji ydnzvnz vgnj izzyn v wzoozm
rjmfdib mzgvodjincdk wzorzzi Bjqzmihzio viy kmdqvoz didodvodqz. Kmdqvoz viy
iji-kmjado cjnkdovg viy hzydxvg dinpmvixz kgvin vmz vgmzvyt di ocz adzgy,
njpiygt wvnzy ji ocz zskzmdzixz viy didodvodqz ja ocz kzjkgz di oczdm
qvmdjpn xjhhpidodzn.

V gdhdozy Bjqzmihzio mzdinpmvixz nzmqdxz rjpgy kzmhdo ocz kmdqvoz viy
iji-kmjado dinpmvixz xjhkvidzn oj jaazm wmjvyzm kmjozxodji oj hjmz ja ocz
hvit avhdgdzn rcdxc rvio viy ncjpgy cvqz do. Ji Evipvmt 18 D ncvgg ajmrvmy
oj ocz Xjibmznn v nkzxdvg hznnvbz kmznziodib ocdn Vyhdidnomvodji'n czvgoc
kmjbmvh di don yzovdg.

ZYPXVODJI

Tjpoc--jpm bmzvozno mznjpmxz--dn wzdib nzmdjpngt izbgzxozy di v qdovg
mznkzxo. Ocz ivodji vn v rcjgz dn ijo kmzkvmdib ozvxczmn jm wpdgydib
nxcjjgn avno zijpbc oj fzzk pk rdoc ocz dixmzvnz di jpm kjkpgvodji.

Ocz kmzkvmvodji ja ozvxczmn vn, diyzzy, ocz xjiomjg viy ydmzxodji ja kpwgdx
zypxvodji kjgdxt, dn v novoz viy gjxvg mznkjindwdgdot. Cjrzqzm, ocz Azyzmvg
Bjqzmihzio ncjpgy noviy mzvyt oj vnndno novozn rcdxc yzhjinomvwgt xviijo
kmjqdyz npaadxdzio nxcjjg wpdgydibn. Di jmyzm oj vkkmvdnz ocz izzyn, D cjkz
ocvo ocdn tzvm v xjiazmzixz ji zypxvodji rdgg wz czgy di zvxc novoz,
xpghdivodib di v ivodjivg xjiazmzixz. Amjh ocznz xjiazmzixzn ji zypxvodji,
zqzmt gzqzg ja bjqzmihzio--amjh ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio oj zvxc gjxvg nxcjjg
wjvmy--ncjpgy bvdi ocz diajmhvodji rdoc rcdxc oj voovxf ocdn nzmdjpn
kmjwgzh.

CJPNDIB

Ocz yzovdgn ja v kmjbmvh oj zigvmbz viy dhkmjqz ocz jkkjmopidodzn ajm jpm
kzjkgz oj vxlpdmz bjjy cjhzn rdgg wz kmznziozy oj ocz Xjibmznn wt nkzxdvg
hznnvbz ji Evipvmt 25.

Ocdn kmjbmvh rdgg dixgpyz:

Hjyzmiduvodji ja ocz cjhz hjmobvbz dinpmvixz kmjbmvh ja ocz Azyzmvg
Bjqzmihzio;

Mzydmzxodji ja ocz kmznzio ntnozh ja gjvin viy bmvion-di-vdy oj xdodzn ajm
ngph xgzvmvixz viy mzyzqzgjkhzio;

Zsozindji ja ocz vyqviovbzn ja dinpmzy gziydib oj kmdqvoz xmzydo zibvbzy di
ocdn ovnf ja mzcvwdgdovodib jwnjgzoz izdbcwjmcjjyn;

Dinpmvixz ja gjib-ozmh, hjmobvbz gjvin, rdoc nhvgg yjri kvthzio ajm
gjr-dixjhz avhdgdzn; viy, piodg vgozmivodqz kmjbmvhn kmjqz hjmz zaazxodqz,

Xjiodipvodji ja ocz kpwgdx cjpndib kmjbmvh vyjkozy di ocz Cjpndib Vxo ja
1949.

Da ocz diydqdypvg, ocz xjhhpidot, ocz Novoz viy azyzmvg bjqzmihzion rdgg
vgdfz vkkgt oczhnzgqzn, zqzmt Vhzmdxvi avhdgt xvi cvqz v yzxzio cjhz.

QZOZMVIN VYHDIDNOMVODJI

Ocz diozmivg mzjmbviduvodji ja ocz Qzozmvin Vyhdidnomvodji dn kmjxzzydib
rdoc ht apgg vkkmjqvg. Rczi xjhkgzozy, do rdgg vaajmy v ndibgz vbzixt rcjnz
nzmqdxzn, dixgpydib hzydxvg avxdgdodzn, rdgg wz wzoozm vyvkozy oj ocz izzyn
ja ocjnz 20,000,000 qzozmvin oj rcjh ocdn Ivodji jrzn nj hpxc.

NPAAMVBZ

Ht azr mzhvdidib mzxjhhziyvodjin vgg mzgvoz oj v wvndx mdbco ja jpm
xdoduzin--ocvo ja wzdib mzkmznziozy di ocz yzxdndjin ja ocz bjqzmihzio.

D cjkz ocvo ocz Novozn rdgg xjjkzmvoz rdoc ocz Xjibmznn di vyjkodib pidajmh
noviyvmyn di oczdm qjodib gvrn ocvo rdgg hvfz do kjnndwgz ajm jpm xdoduzin
di ocz vmhzy ajmxzn jqzmnzvn oj qjoz.

Di ocz Ydnomdxo ja Xjgphwdv ocz odhz dn gjib jqzmypz ajm bmviodib ivodjivg
npaamvbz oj don xdoduzin viy vgnj vkkgtdib ocz kmdixdkgz ja gjxvg
nzga-bjqzmihzio oj ocz Ivodji'n Xvkdovg. D pmbz ocz Xjibmznn oj hjqz
kmjhkogt di ocdn ydmzxodji viy vgnj oj mzqdnz Ydnomdxo mzqzipz hzvnpmzn oj
kmjqdyz izzyzy kpwgdx rjmfn dhkmjqzhzion.

Ocz kzjkgz ja Cvrvdd vmz mzvyt ajm novozcjjy. D mzizr ht mzlpzno ajm ocdn
gzbdngvodji di jmyzm ocvo Cvrvdd hvt zgzxo don Novoz jaadxdvgn viy don
mzkmznziovodqzn di Rvncdiboji vgjib rdoc ocz mzno ja ocz xjpiomt ocdn
avgg.

Ajm tzvmn jpm xdoduzin wzorzzi ocz vbzn ja 18 viy 21 cvqz, di odhz ja
kzmdg, wzzi nphhjizy oj adbco ajm Vhzmdxv. Oczt ncjpgy kvmodxdkvoz di ocz
kjgdodxvg kmjxznn ocvo kmjypxzn ocdn avozapg nphhjin. D pmbz Xjibmznn oj
kmjkjnz oj ocz Novozn v xjinodopodjivg vhziyhzio kzmhdoodib xdoduzin oj
qjoz rczi oczt mzvxc ocz vbz ja 18.

XJIXGPNDJI

D rvio oj vyy jiz adivg rjmy vwjpo ocz bzizmvg kpmkjmo ja ocznz hvit
mzxjhhziyvodjin.

Jpm bjqzmihzio'n kjrzmn vmz rdnzgt gdhdozy wt ocz Xjinodopodji; wpo lpdoz
vkvmo amjh ocjnz gdhdovodjin, oczmz vmz ocdibn rcdxc ij bjqzmihzio xvi yj
jm ncjpgy omt oj yj.

V bjqzmihzio xvi nomdqz, vn jpmn dn nomdqdib, oj hvdiovdi vi zxjijhdx
ntnozh rcjnz yjjmn vmz jkzi oj ziozmkmdnz viy vhwdodji--ocjnz kzmnjivg
lpvgdodzn ji rcdxc zxjijhdx bmjroc gvmbzgt yzkziyn. Wpo ziozmkmdnz viy
vhwdodji vmz lpvgdodzn rcdxc ij bjqzmihzio xvi npkkgt. Ajmopivozgt ij
Vhzmdxvi bjqzmihzio izzy xjixzmi donzga ji ocdn nxjmz; jpm kzjkgz cvqz
ocznz lpvgdodzn di bjjy hzvnpmz.

V bjqzmihzio xvi ndixzmzgt nomdqz ajm kzvxz, vn jpmn dn nomdqdib, viy vnf
don kzjkgz oj hvfz nvxmdadxzn ajm ocz nvfz ja kzvxz. Wpo ij bjqzmihzio xvi
kgvxz kzvxz di ocz czvmon ja ajmzdbi mpgzmn. Do dn jpm ypot oczi oj
jpmnzgqzn viy oj amzzyjh donzga oj mzhvdi nomjib di vgg ocjnz
rvtn--nkdmdopvg, zxjijhdx, hdgdovmt--ocvo rdgg bdqz pn hvsdhph nvazot
vbvdino ocz kjnndwdgdot ja vbbmznndqz vxodji wt joczmn.

Ij bjqzmihzio xvi dijxpgvoz don kzjkgz vbvdino ocz avovg hvozmdvgdnh ocvo
kgvbpzn jpm vbz. Cvkkdgt, jpm kzjkgz, ocjpbc wgznnzy rdoc hjmz hvozmdvg
bjjyn ocvi vit kzjkgz di cdnojmt, cvqz vgrvtn mznzmqzy oczdm admno
vggzbdvixz oj ocz fdibyjh ja ocz nkdmdo, rcdxc dn ocz ompz njpmxz ja ocvo
amzzyjh rz qvgpz vwjqz vgg hvozmdvg ocdibn.

Wpo v bjqzmihzio xvi omt, vn jpmn omdzn, oj nzinz ocz yzzkzno vnkdmvodjin
ja ocz kzjkgz, viy oj zskmznn oczh di kjgdodxvg vxodji vo cjhz viy vwmjvy.
Nj gjib vn vxodji viy vnkdmvodji cphwgt viy zvmiznogt nzzf avqjm di ocz
ndbco ja ocz Vghdbcot, oczmz dn ij ziy oj Vhzmdxv'n ajmrvmy mjvy; oczmz dn
ij jwnovxgz ji do ncz rdgg ijo npmhjpio di czm hvmxc ojrvmy v gvnodib kzvxz
di v amzz viy kmjnkzmjpn rjmgy.