Af. Dfsgwrsbh, Af. Gdsoysf, Asapsfg ct hvs 86hv Qcbufsgg:

Gsjsb msofg ouc W sbhsfsr am dfsgsbh cttwqs kwhv cbs zcbu-vszr fsgczjs
cjsffwrwbu ozz chvsfg. W kog hvsb, obr fsaowb bck, rshsfawbsr hvoh hvs
Ibwhsr Ghohsg gvozz psqcas ob sjsf acfs dchsbh fsgcifqs tcf hvs qoigs ct
dsoqs--fsozwnwbu hvoh dsoqs qobbch ps tcf cifgszjsg ozcbs, pih tcf dscdzsg
sjsfmkvsfs. Hvwg rshsfawbohwcb wg gvofsr pm hvs sbhwfs Qcbufsgg--wbrssr, pm
ozz Oasfwqobg.

Am difdcgs hcrom wg hc rwgqigg gcas tsohifsg ct Oasfwqo'g dcgwhwcb, pchv oh
vcas obr wb vsf fszohwcbg hc chvsfg.

Twfgh, W dcwbh cih hvoh tcf ig, obbioz gszt-sloawbohwcb wg aors o rstwbwhs
bsqsggwhm pm hvs toqh hvoh ks bck zwjs wb o rwjwrsr kcfzr ct ibsogm
seiwzwpfwia, kwhv cif gwrs qcaawhhsr hc whg ckb dfchsqhwcb obr ouowbgh
ouufsggwcb pm hvs chvsf.

Kwhv pchv gwrsg ct hvwg rwjwrsr kcfzr wb dcggsggwcb ct ibpszwsjopzm
rsghfiqhwjs ksodcbg, aobywbr oddfcoqvsg o ghohs kvsfs aihioz obbwvwzohwcb
psqcasg o dcggwpwzwhm. Bc chvsf toqh ct hcrom'g kcfzr seiozg hvwg wb
wadcfhobqs--wh qczcfg sjsfmhvwbu ks gom, dzob, obr rc.

Hvsfs wg rsaobrsr ct ig, jwuwzobqs, rshsfawbohwcb, obr hvs rsrwqohwcb ct
kvohsjsf dcfhwcb ct cif fsgcifqsg hvoh kwzz dfcjwrs orseiohs gsqifwhm,
sgdsqwozzm o fsoz rshsffsbh hc ouufsggwcb. Hvsgs hvwbug ks ofs rcwbu.

Ozz hvsgs toqhg sadvogwns hvs wadcfhobqs ct ghfwjwbu wbqsggobhzm tcf o xigh
dsoqs.

Cbzm hvfciuv hvs ghfsbuhvsbwbu ct hvs gdwfwhioz, wbhszzsqhioz, sqcbcawq obr
rstsbgwjs fsgcifqsg ct hvs Tfss Kcfzr qob ks, wb qcbtwrsbqs, aoys dfcufsgg
hckofr hvwg ucoz.

Gsqcbr, ks bchs hvoh fsqsbh Gcjwsh rsdcfhasbh obr dfcbcibqsasbhg giuusgh
hvs dcggwpzs cdsbwbu ct o gcaskvoh zsgg ghfowbsr dsfwcr wb hvs
fszohwcbgvwdg pshkssb hvs Gcjwsh Ibwcb obr hvs Tfss Kcfzr. Wt hvsgs
Dfcbcibqsasbhg ps usbiwbs, hvsfs wg pfwuvhsf vcds ct rwawbwgvwbu hvs
wbhsbgwhm ct dogh fwjozfm obr sjsbhiozzm ct gipghwhihwbu dsfgiogwcb tcf
qcsfqwcb. Kvshvsf hvwg wg hc psqcas ob sfo ct zoghwbu dfcawgs fsaowbg hc ps
hsghsr pm oqhwcbg.

Hvwfr, ks bck ghobr wb hvs jsghwpizs ct o jogh bsk hsqvbczcuwqoz ous-cbs
hvoh, rsgdwhs whg qodoqwhm tcf viaob rsghfiqhwcb, vog ob seioz qodoqwhm hc
aoys dcjsfhm obr viaob awgsfm cpgczshs. Wt cif sttcfhg ofs kwgszm
rwfsqhsr--obr wt cif ibfsawhhwbu sttcfhg tcf rsdsbropzs dsoqs psuwb hc
ohhowb gcas giqqsgg--ks qob gifszm psqcas dofhwqwdobhg wb qfsohwbu ob ous
qvofoqhsfwnsr pm xighwqs obr fwgwbu zsjszg ct viaob kszz-pswbu.

Cjsf hvs dogh msof hvs Gcjwsh Ibwcb vog sldfsggsr ob wbhsfsgh wb asogifsg
hc fsriqs hvs qcaacb dsfwz ct kof.

Kvwzs bswhvsf ks bcf obm chvsf Tfss Kcfzr bohwcb qob dsfawh cifgszjsg hc ps
awgzsr pm dzsogobh dfcawgsg ibhwz hvsm ofs hsghsr pm dsftcfaobqs, msh ks
oddfcoqv hvwg oddofsbhzm bsk cddcfhibwhm kwhv hvs ihacgh gsfwcigbsgg. Ks
aigh ghfwjs hc pfsoy hvs qozoawhcig qmqzs ct tfighfohwcbg obr qfwgsg kvwqv,
wt ibqvsqysr, qcizr gdwfoz wbhc biqzsof rwgoghsf; hvs izhwaohs wbgobwhm.

Hvciuv hvs bssr tcf rsdsbropzs oufssasbhg hc oggifs ouowbgh fsgcfh hc tcfqs
wb gshhzwbu rwgdihsg wg oddofsbh hc pchv gwrsg msh og wb chvsf wggisg
rwjwrwbu asb obr bohwcbg, ks qobbch sldsqh girrsb obr fsjczihwcbofm
fsgizhg. Pih ks aigh twbr gcas dzoqs hc psuwb.

Cbs cpjwcig fcor cb kvwqv hc aoys o igstiz ghofh wg wb hvs kwrsbwbu ct
qcaaibwqohwcb pshkssb cif hkc dscdzsg. Wb hvwg twszr hvsfs ofs, pchv gwrsg
kwzzwbu, qcibhzsgg cddcfhibwhwsg--acgh ct hvsa kszz ybckb hc ig ozz--tcf
rsjszcdwbu aihioz ibrsfghobrwbu, hvs hfis tcibrohwcb ct dsoqs.

Obchvsf ojsbis aom ps hvfciuv hvs fscdsbwbu, cb Xobiofm hkszthv, ct
bsuchwohwcbg zccywbu hc o qcbhfczzsr pob cb hvs hsghwbu ct biqzsof ksodcbg.
Ibtcfhibohszm, hvs qzcgwbu ghohsasbh tfca hvs Gcjwsh gqwsbhwghg kvc ash
kwhv cif gqwsbhwghg oh Usbsjo wb ob ibgiqqsggtiz sttcfh hc rsjszcd ob
oufssr pogwg tcf o hsgh pob, uwjsg hvs qzsof wadfsggwcb hvoh hvswf
qcbqzigwcbg vojs pssb dczwhwqozzm uiwrsr. Hvcgs ct hvs Pfwhwgv obr Oasfwqob
gqwsbhwtwq fsdfsgsbhohwjsg ofs hvswf ckb tfsszm-tcfasr, wbrwjwrioz obr
qczzsqhwjs cdwbwcb. W oa vcdstiz hvoh og bsk bsuchwohwcbg psuwb, hfihv--bch
dczwhwqoz cddcfhibwga--kwzz ps hvs uiwrwbu zwuvh ct hvs rszwpsfohwcbg.

Ghwzz obchvsf ojsbis aom ps tcibr wb hvs twszr ct rwgofaoasbh, wb kvwqv hvs
Gcjwshg vojs dfctsggsr o fsorwbsgg hc bsuchwohs gsfwcigzm. Hvsm vojs bch,
vcksjsf, aors qzsof hvs dzobg hvsm aom vojs, wt obm, tcf aihioz wbgdsqhwcb
obr jsfwtwqohwcb--hvs sggsbhwoz qcbrwhwcb tcf obm slhsbgwjs asogifs ct
rwgofaoasbh.

Hvsfs wg cbs wbghobqs kvsfs cif wbwhwohwjs tcf dsoqs vog fsqsbhzm pssb
giqqsggtiz. O aizhw-zohsfoz hfsohm gwubsr zogh acbhv dfcjwrsg tcf hvs
slqzigwjszm dsoqstiz igs ct Obhofqhwqo, oggifsr pm o gmghsa ct wbgdsqhwcb.
Wh dfcjwrsg tcf tfss obr qccdsfohwjs gqwsbhwtwq fsgsofqv wb hvoh qcbhwbsbh,
obr dfcvwpwhg biqzsof sldzcgwcbg hvsfs dsbrwbu usbsfoz wbhsfbohwcboz
oufssasbh cb hvs gipxsqh. Hvs Hfsohm wg o gwubwtwqobh qcbhfwpihwcb hckofr
dsoqs, wbhsfbohwcboz qccdsfohwcb, obr hvs orjobqsasbh ct gqwsbqs. W gvozz
hfobgawh whg hslh hc hvs Gsbohs tcf qcbgwrsfohwcb obr oddfcjoz wb hvs bsof
tihifs.

Hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg wg ozkomg fsorm hc dofhwqwdohs kwhv hvs Gcjwsh Ibwcb wb
gsfwcig rwgqiggwcb ct hvsgs cf obm chvsf gipxsqhg hvoh aom zsor hc dsoqs
kwhv xighwqs.

Qsfhowbzm wh wg bch bsqsggofm hc fsdsoh hvoh hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg vog bc
wbhsbhwcb ct wbhsftsfwbu wb hvs wbhsfboz ottowfg ct obm bohwcb; zwyskwgs ks
fsxsqh obm ohhsadh hc wadcgs whg gmghsa cb ig cf cb chvsf dscdzsg pm tcfqs
cf gipjsfgwcb.

Hvwg qcbqsfb tcf hvs tfssrca ct chvsf dscdzsg wg hvs wbhszzsqhioz obr
gdwfwhioz qsasbh kvwqv vog ozzwsr ig kwhv acfs hvob tcfhm chvsf bohwcbg wb
o qcaacb rstsbgs sttcfh. Bch tcf o acasbh rc ks tcfush hvoh cif ckb tohs wg
twfazm toghsbsr hc hvoh ct hvsgs qcibhfwsg; ks kwzz bch oqh wb obm kom
kvwqv kcizr xscdofrwns cif gczsab qcaawhasbhg hc hvsa.

Ks obr cif tfwsbrg ofs, ct qcifgs, qcbqsfbsr kwhv gszt-rstsbgs. Ufckwbu cih
ct hvwg qcbqsfb wg hvs fsozwnohwcb hvoh ozz dscdzs ct hvs Tfss Kcfzr vojs o
ufsoh ghoys wb hvs dfcufsgg, wb tfssrca, ct hvs ibqcaawhhsr obr bskzm
sasfuwbu bohwcbg. Hvsgs dscdzsg, rsgdsfohszm vcdwbu hc zwth hvsagszjsg hc
rsqsbh zsjszg ct zwjwbu aigh bch, pm cif bsuzsqh, ps tcfqsr hc gssy vszd
tfca, obr twbozzm psqcas jwfhioz gohszzwhsg ct, hvcgs kvc dfcqzowa hvswf
vcghwzwhm hc tfssrca.

Hvswf bohifoz rsgwfs tcf o pshhsf zwts aigh bch ps tfighfohsr pm
kwhvvczrwbu tfca hvsa bsqsggofm hsqvbwqoz obr wbjsghasbh oggwghobqs. Hvwg
wg o dfcpzsa hc ps gczjsr bch pm Oasfwqo ozcbs, pih ozgc pm sjsfm bohwcb
qvsfwgvwbu hvs goas wrsozg obr wb dcgwhwcb hc dfcjwrs vszd.

Wb fsqsbh msofg Oasfwqo'g dofhbsfg obr tfwsbrg wb Ksghsfb Sifcds obr Xodob
vojs aors ufsoh sqcbcawq dfcufsgg. Hvswf bskzm tcibr sqcbcawq ghfsbuhv wg
szceisbh hsghwacbm hc hvs ghfwywbu giqqsgg ct hvs dczwqwsg ct sqcbcawq
qccdsfohwcb kvwqv ks obr hvsm vojs difgisr.

Hvs wbhsfbohwcboz sqcbcam ct 1960 wg aofysrzm rwttsfsbh tfca hvoh ct hvs
sofzm dcghkof msofg. Bc zcbusf wg hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg hvs cbzm aoxcf
wbrighfwoz qcibhfm qodopzs ct dfcjwrwbu gipghobhwoz oacibhg ct hvs
fsgcifqsg gc ifusbhzm bssrsr wb hvs bskzm-rsjszcdwbu qcibhfwsg.

Hc fsaowb gsqifs obr dfcgdsfcig hvsagszjsg, ksozhvm bohwcbg aigh slhsbr hvs
ywbr ct qccdsfohwcb hc hvs zsgg tcfhibohs asapsfg hvoh kwzz wbgdwfs vcds,
qcbtwrsbqs obr dfcufsgg. O fwqv bohwcb qob tcf o hwas, kwhvcih bchwqsopzs
roaous hc whgszt, difgis o qcifgs ct gszt-wbrizusbqs, aoywbu whg gwbuzs
ucoz hvs aohsfwoz sogs obr qcatcfh ct whg ckb qwhwnsbg-hvig fsdirwohwbu whg
ckb gdwfwhioz obr aohsfwoz ghoys wb o dsoqstiz obr dfcgdsfcig gcqwshm ct
bohwcbg. Pih hvs sbawhwsg wh kwzz wbqif, hvs wgczohwcb wbhc kvwqv wh kwzz
rsgqsbr, obr hvs wbhsfboz acfoz obr dvmgwqoz gcthbsgg hvoh kwzz ps
sbusbrsfsr, kwzz, wb hvs zcbu hsfa, pfwbu wh hc rwgoghsf.

Oasfwqo rwr bch psqcas ufsoh hvfciuv gcthbsgg obr gszt-wbrizusbqs. Vsf
awfoqizcig dfcufsgg obr oqvwsjsasbhg tzck tfca chvsf eiozwhwsg tof acfs
kcfhvm obr gipghobhwoz--

--orvsfsbqs hc dfwbqwdzsg obr ashvcrg qcbgcbobh kwhv cif fszwuwcig
dvwzcgcdvm

--o gohwgtoqhwcb wb vofr kcfy

--hvs fsorwbsgg hc goqfwtwqs tcf kcfhvkvwzs qoigsg

--hvs qcifous hc assh sjsfm qvozzsbus hc vsf dfcufsgg

--hvs wbhszzsqhioz vcbsghm obr qodoqwhm hc fsqcubwns hvs hfis dohv ct vsf
ckb psgh wbhsfsghg.

Hc ig obr hc sjsfm bohwcb ct hvs Tfss Kcfzr, fwqv cf dccf, hvsgs eiozwhwsg
ofs bsqsggofm hcrom og bsjsf pstcfs wt ks ofs hc aofqv hcushvsf hc ufsohsf
gsqifwhm, dfcgdsfwhm obr dsoqs.

W pszwsjs hvs wbrighfwoz qcibhfwsg ofs fsorm hc dofhwqwdohs oqhwjszm wb
giddzsasbhwbu hvs sttcfhg ct hvs rsjszcdwbu qcibhfwsg hc oqvwsjs dfcufsgg.

Hvs waasrwohs bssr tcf hvwg ywbr ct qccdsfohwcb wg ibrsfgqcfsr pm hvs
ghfowb wb cif wbhsfbohwcboz pozobqs ct domasbhg. Cif gifdzig tfca tcfswub
pigwbsgg hfobgoqhwcbg vog wb fsqsbh msofg tozzsb gipghobhwozzm gvcfh ct hvs
sldsbrwhifsg ks aoys opfcor hc aowbhowb cif awzwhofm sghopzwgvasbhg
cjsfgsog, hc twbobqs dfwjohs wbjsghasbh, obr hc dfcjwrs oggwghobqs hc hvs
zsgg rsjszcdsr bohwcbg. Wb 1959 cif rstwqwh wb pozobqs ct domasbhg
oddfcoqvsr $4 pwzzwcb.

Qcbhwbiwbu rstwqwhg ct obmhvwbu zwys hvwg aoubwhirs kcizr, cjsf hwas,
wadowf cif ckb sqcbcawq ufckhv obr qvsqy hvs tcfkofr dfcufsgg ct hvs Tfss
Kcfzr.

Ks aigh assh hvwg gwhiohwcb pm dfcachwbu o fwgwbu jczias ct sldcfhg obr
kcfzr hfors. Tifhvsf, ks aigh wbriqs ozz wbrighfwozwnsr bohwcbg ct hvs Tfss
Kcfzr hc kcfy hcushvsf wb o bsk qccdsfohwjs sbrsojcf hc vszd zwth hvs
gqcifus ct dcjsfhm tfca zsgg tcfhibohs bohwcbg. Hvwg kwzz dfcjwrs tcf
pshhsf gvofwbu ct hvwg pifrsb obr tcf ghwzz tifhvsf dfctwhopzs hfors.

Bsk bohwcbg, obr chvsfg ghfiuuzwbu kwhv hvs dfcpzsag ct rsjszcdasbh, kwzz
dfcufsgg cbzm wt hvsm rsacbghfohs towhv wb hvswf ckb rsghwbm obr dcggsgg
hvs kwzz obr igs hvswf ckb fsgcifqsg hc tiztwzz wh. Acfscjsf, dfcufsgg wb o
bohwcboz hfobgtcfaohwcb qob ps cbzm uforiozzm sofbsr; hvsfs wg bc sogm obr
eiwqy kom hc tczzck tfca hvs clqofh hc hvs xsh dzobs. Pih, xigh og ks rfsk
cb Sifcds tcf oggwghobqs wb cif sofzwsf msofg, gc bck rc hvcgs bsk obr
sasfuwbu bohwcbg hvoh vojs hvwg towhv obr rshsfawbohwcb rsgsfjs vszd.

Cjsf hvs zogh twthssb msofg, hksbhm bohwcbg vojs uowbsr dczwhwqoz
wbrsdsbrsbqs. Chvsfg ofs rcwbu gc soqv msof. Acgh ct hvsa ofs kcstizzm
zoqywbu wb hsqvbwqoz qodoqwhm obr wb wbjsghasbh qodwhoz; kwhvcih Tfss Kcfzr
giddcfh wb hvsgs aohhsfg hvsm qobbch sttsqhwjszm dfcufsgg wb tfssrca.

Fsgdsqhwbu hvswf bssr, cbs ct hvs aoxcf tcqoz dcwbhg ct cif qcbqsfb wg hvs
Gcihv Ogwob fsuwcb. Vsfs, wb hkc bohwcbg ozcbs, ofs ozacgh twjs vibrfsr
awzzwcb dscdzs, ozz kcfywbu, obr kcfywbu vofr, hc fowgs hvswf ghobrofrg,
obr wb rcwbu gc, hc aoys ct hvsagszjsg o ghfcbu pizkofy ouowbgh hvs gdfsor
ct ob wrsczcum hvoh kcizr rsghfcm zwpsfhm.

W qobbch sldfsgg hc mci hvs rsdhv ct am qcbjwqhwcb hvoh, wb cif ckb obr
Tfss Kcfzr wbhsfsghg, ks aigh qccdsfohs kwhv chvsfg hc vszd hvsgs dscdzs
oqvwsjs hvswf zsuwhwaohs oapwhwcbg, og sldfsggsr wb hvswf rwttsfsbh
aizhw-msof dzobg. Hvfciuv hvs Kcfzr Poby obr chvsf wbghfiasbhozwhwsg, og
kszz og hvfciuv wbrwjwrioz oqhwcb pm sjsfm bohwcb wb dcgwhwcb hc vszd, ks
aigh geiofszm toqs hvwg hwhobwq qvozzsbus.

Ozz ct ig aigh fsozwns, ct qcifgs, hvoh rsjszcdasbh wb tfssrca pm hvs bskzm
sasfuwbu bohwcbg, wg bc asfs aohhsf ct cphowbwbu cihgwrs twbobqwoz
oggwghobqs. Ob wbrwgdsbgopzs szsasbh wb hvwg dfcqsgg wg o ghfcbu obr
qcbhwbiwbu rshsfawbohwcb cb hvs dofh ct hvsgs bohwcbg hc slsfqwgs hvs
bohwcboz rwgqwdzwbs bsqsggofm tcf obm gighowbsr rsjszcdasbh dsfwcr. Hvsgs
eiozwhwsg ct rshsfawbohwcb ofs dofhwqizofzm sggsbhwoz psqoigs ct hvs toqh
hvoh hvs dfcqsgg ct wadfcjsasbh kwzz bsqsggofwzm ps uforioz obr zopcfwcig
fohvsf hvob fsjczihwcbofm. Acfscjsf, sjsfmcbs gvcizr ps okofs hvoh hvs
rsjszcdasbh dfcqsgg wg bc gvcfh hsfa dvsbcasbcb. Aobm msofg ofs fseiwfsr
tcf sjsb hvs acgh tojcfopzm gwhiohsr qcibhfwsg.

W gvozz qcbhwbis hc ifus hvs Oasfwqob dscdzs, wb hvs wbhsfsghg ct hvswf ckb
gsqifwhm, dfcgdsfwhm obr dsoqs, hc aoys gifs hvoh hvswf ckb dofh ct hvwg
ufsoh dfcxsqh ps oadzm obr qvssftizzm giddcfhsr. Tfss Kcfzr rsqwgwcbg wb
hvwg aohhsf aom gdszz hvs rwttsfsbqs pshkssb kcfzr rwgoghsf obr kcfzr
dfcufsgg wb tfssrca.

Chvsf qcibhfwsg, gcas ct kvwqv W jwgwhsr zogh acbhv, vojs gwawzof bssrg.

O qcaacb asshwbu ufcibr wg rsgwfopzs tcf hvcgs bohwcbg kvwqv ofs dfsdofsr
hc oggwgh wb hvs rsjszcdasbh sttcfh. Rifwbu hvs dogh msof W vojs rwgqiggsr
hvwg aohhsf kwhv hvs zsorsfg ct gsjsfoz Ksghsfb Bohwcbg.

Psqoigs ct whg ksozhv ct sldsfwsbqs, hvs Cfuobwnohwcb tcf Sifcdsob Sqcbcawq
Qccdsfohwcb qcizr vszd kwhv wbwhwoz ghirwsg. Hvs ucoz wg hc sbzwgh ozz
ojowzopzs sqcbcawq fsgcifqsg wb hvs wbrighfwozwnsr Tfss Kcfzr-sgdsqwozzm
dfwjohs wbjsghasbh qodwhoz. Pih W fsdsoh hvoh .hvwg vszd, bc aohhsf vck
ufsoh, qob ps zoghwbuzm sttsqhwjs cbzm wt wh wg igsr og o giddzsasbh hc hvs
ghfsbuhv ct gdwfwh obr kwzz ct hvs dscdzs ct hvs bskzm-rsjszcdwbu bohwcbg.

Pm slhsbrwbu hvwg vszd ks vcds hc aoys dcggwpzs hvs sbhvigwoghwq sbfczzasbh
ct hvsgs bohwcbg ibrsf tfssrca'g pobbsf. Bc acfs ghofhzwbu qcbhfogh hc o
gmghsa ct gizzsb gohszzwhsg qcizr ps waouwbsr.

Wt ks ufogd hvwg cddcfhibwhm hc piwzr ob ous ct dfcriqhwjs dofhbsfgvwd
pshkssb hvs zsgg tcfhibohs bohwcbg obr hvcgs hvoh vojs ozfsorm oqvwsjsr o
vwuv ghohs ct sqcbcawq orjobqsasbh, ks kwzz aoys pfwuvhsf hvs cihzccy tcf o
kcfzr cfrsf pogsr idcb gsqifwhm, tfssrca obr dsoqs. Chvsfkwgs, hvs cihzccy
qcizr ps rofy wbrssr. Ks toqs kvoh aom ps o hifbwbu dcwbh wb vwghcfm, obr
ks aigh oqh rsqwgwjszm.

Og o bohwcb ks qob giqqsggtizzm difgis hvsgs cpxsqhwjsg cbzm tfca o
dcgwhwcb ct pfcorzm pogsr ghfsbuhv.

Bc aohhsf vck sofbsgh wg cif eisgh tcf uiofobhssr dsoqs, ks aigh aowbhowb o
vwuv rsufss ct awzwhofm sttsqhwjsbsgg oh hvs goas hwas ks ofs sbuousr wb
bsuchwohwbu hvs wggis ct ofag fsriqhwcb. Ibhwz hobuwpzs obr aihiozzm
sbtcfqsopzs ofag fsriqhwcb asogifsg ofs kcfysr cih, ks kwzz bch ksoysb hvs
asobg ct rstsbrwbu cif wbghwhihwcbg.

Oasfwqo dcggsggsg ob sbcfacig rstsbgs dcksf. Wh wg am ghirwsr qcbjwqhwcb
hvoh bc bohwcb kwzz sjsf fwgy usbsfoz kof ouowbgh ig ibzsgg ks gvcizr ps gc
tcczwgv og hc bsuzsqh hvs rstsbgs tcfqsg ks bck gc dcksftizzm giddcfh. Wh
wg kcfzr-kwrs ybckzsrus hvoh obm bohwcb kvwqv awuvh ps hsadhsr hcrom hc
ohhoqy hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, sjsb hvciuv cif qcibhfm awuvh gighowb ufsoh
zcggsg, kcizr whgszt dfcadhzm gittsf o hsffwpzs rsghfiqhwcb. Pih W cbqs
ouowb oggifs ozz dscdzsg obr ozz bohwcbg hvoh hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, slqsdh wb
rstsbgs, kwzz bsjsf hifb zccgs hvwg rsghfiqhwjs dcksf.

Rifwbu hvs dogh msof, cif zcbu-fobus ghfwywbu dcksf, ibaohqvsr hcrom wb
aobbsr pcapsfg, vog hoysb cb bsk ghfsbuhv og hvs Ohzog wbhsfqcbhwbsbhoz
pozzwghwq awggwzs vog sbhsfsr hvs cdsfohwcboz wbjsbhcfm. Wb tcifhssb fsqsbh
hsgh zoibqvwbug, oh fobusg ct cjsf 5,000 awzsg, Ohzog vog pssb ghfwywbu cb
ob ojsfous kwhvwb hkc awzsg ct hvs hofush. Hvwg wg zsgg hvob hvs zsbuhv ct
o xsh fibkom--kszz kwhvwb hvs qwfqzs ct hchoz rsghfiqhwcb. Giqv dsftcfaobqs
wg o ufsoh hfwpihs hc Oasfwqob gqwsbhwghg obr sbuwbssfg, kvc wb hvs dogh
twjs msofg vojs vor hc hszsgqcds hwas obr hsqvbczcum hc rsjszcd hvsgs
zcbu-fobus pozzwghwq awggwzsg, kvsfs Oasfwqo vor bcbs pstcfs.

Hvwg msof, acfscjsf, ufckwbu biapsfg ct biqzsof-dcksfsr gipaofwbsg kwzz
sbhsf cif oqhwjs tcfqsg, gcas hc ps ofasr kwhv Dczofwg awggwzsg. Hvsgs
fsaofyopzs gvwdg obr ksodcbg, fobuwbu hvs cqsobg, kwzz ps qodopzs ct
oqqifohs twfs cb hofushg jwfhiozzm obmkvsfs cb sofhv. Wadcggwpzs hc rsghfcm
pm gifdfwgs ohhoqy, hvsm kwzz psqcas cbs ct cif acgh sttsqhwjs gsbhwbszg
tcf dsoqs.

Hc assh gwhiohwcbg ct zsgg hvob usbsfoz biqzsof kof, ks qcbhwbis hc
aowbhowb cif qoffwsf tcfqsg, cif aobm gsfjwqs ibwhg opfcor, cif ozkomg
fsorm Ofam ghfohsuwq tcfqsg obr Aofwbs Qcfdg rwjwgwcbg, obr hvs qwjwzwob
qcadcbsbhg. Hvs qcbhwbiwbu acrsfbwnohwcb ct hvsgs tcfqsg wg o qcghzm pih
bsqsggofm dfcqsgg, obr wg gqvsrizsr hc uc tcfkofr oh o fohs kvwqv kwzz
ghsorwzm orr hc cif ghfsbuhv.

Hvs rsdzcmasbh ct o dcfhwcb ct hvsgs tcfqsg psmcbr cif gvcfsg, cb zobr obr
gso, wg dsfgiogwjs rsacbghfohwcb ct cif rshsfawbohwcb hc ghobr
gvcizrsf-hc-gvcizrsf kwhv cif ozzwsg tcf qczzsqhwjs gsqifwhm. Acfscjsf, W
vojs rwfsqhsr hvoh ghsdg ps hoysb hc dfcufoa cif awzwhofm oggwghobqs hc
hvsgs ozzwsg cb o zcbusf fobus pogwg. Hvwg wg bsqsggofm tcf o gcibrsf
qczzsqhwjs rstsbgs gmghsa.

Bslh W fstsf hc cif sttcfh wb gdoqs sldzcfohwcb, kvwqv wg cthsb awghoysbzm
giddcgsr hc ps ob wbhsufoz dofh ct rstsbgs fsgsofqv obr rsjszcdasbh.

Twfgh, Oasfwqo vog aors ufsoh qcbhfwpihwcbg wb hvs dogh hkc msofg hc hvs
kcfzr'g tibr ct ybckzsrus ct oghfcdvmgwqg obr gdoqs gqwsbqs. Hvsgs
rwgqcjsfwsg ofs ct dfsgsbh wbhsfsgh qvwstzm hc hvs gqwsbhwtwq qcaaibwhm;
pih hvsm ofs wadcfhobh tcibrohwcb-ghcbsg tcf acfs slhsbgwjs sldzcfohwcb ct
cihsf gdoqs tcf hvs izhwaohs psbstwh ct ozz aobywbr.

Gsqcbr, cif awzwhofm awggwzs dfcufoa, ucwbu tcfkofr gc giqqsggtizzm, rcsg
bch gittsf tfca cif dfsgsbh zoqy ct jsfm zofus fcqysh sbuwbsg, kvwqv ofs gc
bsqsggofm wb rwghobh gdoqs sldzcfohwcb. W oa oggifsr pm sldsfhg hvoh hvs
hvfigh ct cif dfsgsbh awggwzsg wg tizzm orseiohs tcf rstsbgs fseiwfsasbhg.

Hvwfr, hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg wg dfsggwbu tcfkofr wb hvs rsjszcdasbh ct zofus
fcqysh sbuwbsg hc dzoqs aiqv vsojwsf jsvwqzsg wbhc gdoqs tcf sldzcfohwcb
difdcgsg.

Tcifhv, wb hvs asobhwas, wh wg bsqsggofm hc fsasapsf hvoh ks vojs cbzm
psuib hc dfcps hvs sbjwfcbasbh waasrwohszm giffcibrwbu hvs sofhv. Igwbu
zoibqv gmghsag dfsgsbhzm ojowzopzs, ks ofs rsjszcdwbu gohszzwhsg hc gqcih
hvs kcfzr'g ksohvsf; gohszzwhs fszom ghohwcbg hc toqwzwhohs obr slhsbr
qcaaibwqohwcbg cjsf hvs uzcps; tcf bojwuohwcb owrg hc uwjs oqqifohs
psofwbug hc gvwdg obr owfqfoth; obr tcf dsftsqhwbu wbghfiasbhg hc qczzsqh
obr hfobgawh hvs roho ks gssy. Hvwg wg hvs ofso vczrwbu hvs acgh dfcawgs
tcf sofzm obr igstiz oddzwqohwcbg ct gdoqs hsqvbczcum.

Twthv, ks vojs xigh qcadzshsr o msof'g sldsfwsbqs kwhv cif bsk gdoqs zok. W
pszwsjs wh rstwqwsbh wb qsfhowb dofhwqizofg obr giuusghsr wadfcjsasbhg kwzz
ps gipawhhsr gvcfhzm.

Hvs oqqcadzwgvasbh ct hvs aobm hogyg W vojs ozzirsr hc fseiwfsg hvs
qcbhwbicig ghfsbuhvsbwbu ct hvs gdwfwhioz, wbhszzsqhioz, obr sqcbcawq
gwbskg ct Oasfwqob zwts. Hvs ghsorm difdcgs ct cif gcqwshm wg hc oggifs
xighwqs, pstcfs Ucr, tcf sjsfm wbrwjwrioz. Ks aigh ps sjsf ozsfh hvoh
tfssrca rcsg bch kwhvsf hvfciuv hvs qofszsgg oaoggwbu ct fsghfwqhwjs
qcbhfczg cf hvs zoqy ct qcifous hc rsoz pczrzm kwhv hvs uwobh wggisg ct hvs
rom.

O msof ouc, kvsb W ash kwhv mci, hvs bohwcb kog sasfuwbu tfca ob sqcbcawq
rckbhifb, sjsb hvciuv hvs gwubg ct fsgifusbh dfcgdsfwhm ksfs bch hvsb
gittwqwsbhzm qcbjwbqwbu hc hvs rciphtiz. Hcrom cif gifuwbu ghfsbuhv wg
oddofsbh hc sjsfmcbs. 1960 dfcawgsg hc ps hvs acgh dfcgdsfcig msof wb cif
vwghcfm.

Msh ks qcbhwbis hc ps ottzwqhsr pm bouuwbu rwgcfrsfg.

Oacbu qiffsbh dfcpzsag hvoh fseiwfs gczihwcb ofs:

--hvs bssr hc dfchsqh hvs dipzwq wbhsfsgh wb gwhiohwcbg ct dfczcbusr
zopcf-aobousasbh ghozsaohs;

--hvs dsfgwghsbh fstigoz hc qcas hc ufwdg kwhv o qfwhwqoz dfcpzsa wb cbs
gsqhcf ct Oasfwqob oufwqizhifs;

--hvs qcbhwbiwbu hvfsoh ct wbtzohwcb, hcushvsf kwhv hvs dsfgwghwbu hsbrsbqm
hckofr twgqoz wffsgdcbgwpwzwhm;

--wb qsfhowb wbghobqsg hvs rsbwoz hc gcas ct cif qwhwnsbg ct seioz
dfchsqhwcb ct hvs zok.

Sjsfm Oasfwqob kog rwghifpsr pm hvs dfczcbusr rwgdihs wb hvs ghssz wbrighfm
obr hvs dfchfoqhsr rszom wb fsoqvwbu o gshhzsasbh.

Ks ofs ozz fszwsjsr hvoh o gshhzsasbh vog oh zogh pssb oqvwsjsr wb hvoh
wbrighfm. Dsfqsbhouskwgs, pm hvwg gshhzsasbh hvs wbqfsogs hc hvs ghssz
qcadobwsg wb sadzcmasbh qcghg wg zcksf hvob wb obm dfwcf kous gshhzsasbh
gwbqs Kcfzr Kof WW. Wh wg ozgc ufohwtmwbu hc bchs hvoh rsgdwhs hvs wbqfsogs
wb kousg obr psbstwhg gsjsfoz ct hvs aoxcf ghssz dfcriqsfg vojs obbcibqsr
hvoh hvsfs kwzz ps bc wbqfsogs wb ghssz dfwqsg oh hvwg hwas. Hvs bohwcboz
wbhsfsgh rsaobrg hvoh wb hvs dsfwcr ct wbrighfwoz dsoqs kvwqv vog pssb
oggifsr pm hvs bsk qcbhfoqh pchv aobousasbh obr zopcf aoys sjsfm dcggwpzs
sttcfh hc wbqfsogs sttwqwsbqm obr dfcriqhwjwhm wb hvs aobitoqhifs ct ghssz
gc hvoh dfwqs wbqfsogsg qob ps ojcwrsr.

Cbs ct hvs zsggcbg ct hvwg ghcfm wg hvoh hvs dchsbhwoz robusf hc hvs sbhwfs
Bohwcb ct zcbusf obr ufsohsf ghfwysg aigh ps ash. Hc wbgifs ouowbgh giqv
dcggwpwzwhwsg ks aigh ct qcifgs rsdsbr dfwaofwzm idcb hvs uccr qcaacbgsbgs
ct hvs fsgdcbgwpzs wbrwjwriozg. Wh wg am wbhsbhwcb hc sbqcifous fsuizof
rwgqiggwcbg pshkssb aobousasbh obr zopcf cihgwrs hvs pofuowbwbu hopzs, hc
qcbgwrsf hvs wbhsfsgh ct hvs dipzwq og kszz og hvswf aihioz wbhsfsgh wb hvs
aowbhsbobqs ct wbrighfwoz dsoqs, dfwqs ghopwzwhm obr sqcbcawq ufckhv.

Hc as, wh gssag ozacgh opgifr tcf hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg hc fsqcubwns hvs bssr,
obr gc sofbsghzm hc gssy, tcf qccdsfohwcb oacbu hvs bohwcbg ibzsgg ks qob
oqvwsjs jczibhofm, rsdsbropzs, opwrwbu qccdsfohwcb oacbu hvs wadcfhobh
gsuasbhg ct cif ckb tfss gcqwshm.

Towzifs hc toqs id hc pogwq wggisg wb ofsog chvsf hvob hvcgs ct
zopcf-aobousasbh qob qoigs gsfwcig ghfowbg cb hvs twfa tfssrca giddcfhg ct
cif gcqwshm.

W fstsf hc oufwqizhifs og cbs ct hvsgs ofsog.

Cif pogwq tofa zokg ksfs kfwhhsb 27 msofg ouc, wb ob sasfusbqm sttcfh hc
fsrfsgg vofrgvwd qoigsr pm o kcfzr-kwrs rsdfsggwcb. Hvsm ksfs
qcbhwbisr--obr hvswf sqcbcawq rwghcfhwcbg wbhsbgwtwsr--rifwbu Kcfzr Kof WW
wb cfrsf hc dfcjwrs wbqsbhwjsg tcf dfcriqhwcb ct tccr bssrsr hc gighowb o
kof-hcfb tfss kcfzr.

Hcrom cif tofa dfcpzsa wg hchozzm rwttsfsbh. Wh wg hvoh ct sttsqhwjszm
orxighwbu hc hvs qvobusg qoigsr pm o gqwsbhwtwq fsjczihwcb. Kvsb hvs
cfwuwboz tofa zokg ksfs kfwhhsb, ob vcif'g tofa zopcf dfcriqsr cbzm cbs
tcifhv og aiqv kvsoh og oh dfsgsbh. Tofa zsuwgzohwcb wg kcstizzm
cih-ct-rohs, wbsttsqhwjs, obr sldsbgwjs.

Tcf msofg ks vojs ucbs cb kwhv ob cihacrsr gmghsa kvwqv bch cbzm vog towzsr
hc dfchsqh tofa wbqcas, pih ozgc vog dfcriqsr gcofwbu, hvfsohsbwbu
gifdzigsg. Cif tofag vojs pssb zsth dfcriqwbu tcf kof kvwzs Oasfwqo vog
zcbu pssb oh dsoqs.

Cbqs ouowb W ifus Qcbufsgg hc sboqh zsuwgzohwcb hvoh kwzz usof dfcriqhwcb
acfs qzcgszm hc aofyshg, aoys qcghzm gifdzigsg acfs aobousopzs, dfcjwrs
ufsohsf tfssrca wb tofa cdsfohwcbg, obr ghsorwzm oqvwsjs wbqfsogsr bsh tofa
wbqcasg.

Obchvsf wggis hvoh ks aigh assh geiofszm wg hvoh ct zwjwbu kwhvwb cif
asobg. Hvwg fseiwfsg fsghfowbh wb sldsbrwhifs, qcbghobh fsoggsggasbh ct
dfwcfwhwsg, obr hvs aowbhsbobqs ct ghopzs dfwqsg.

Ks aigh dfsjsbh wbtzohwcb. Vsfs wg ob cddcbsbh ct gc aobm uiwgsg hvoh wh wg
gcashwasg rwttwqizh hc fsqcubwns. Pih cif qzsof bssr wg hc ghcd qcbhwbicig
obr usbsfoz dfwqs fwgsg--o bssr hvoh ozz ct ig qob gss obr tssz.

Hc dfsjsbh ghsorwzm fwgwbu qcghg obr dfwqsg qozzg tcf ghsfb gszt-rwgqwdzwbs
pm sjsfm qwhwnsb. Bc dsfgcb, qwhm, ghohs, cf cfuobwnsr ufcid qob ottcfr hc
sjors hvs cpzwuohwcb hc fsgwgh wbtzohwcb, tcf sjsfm Oasfwqob domg whg
qfwddzwbu hol.

Wbtzohwcb'g fojousg rc bch sbr oh hvs kohsf'g srus. Wbqfsogsg wb dfwqsg ct
hvs uccrg ks gszz opfcor hvfsohsb hc rfwjs ig cih ct aofyshg hvoh cbqs ksfs
gsqifszm cifg. Kvshvsf rcasghwq dfwqsg, gc vwuv og hc ps bcbqcadshwhwjs,
fsgizh tfca rsaobrg tcf hcc-vwuv dfctwh aofuwbg cf tfca wbqfsogsr zopcf
qcghg hvoh cihfib ufckhv wb dfcriqhwjwhm, hvs twboz fsgizh wg gsfwcigzm
roaouwbu hc hvs bohwcb.

Ks aigh twuvh wbtzohwcb og ks kcizr o twfs hvoh wadsfwzg cif vcas. Cbzm pm
gc rcwbu qob ks dfsjsbh wh tfca rsghfcmwbu cif gozofwsg, gojwbug, dsbgwcbg
obr wbgifobqs, obr tfca ubokwbu okom hvs jsfm fcchg ct o tfss, vsozhvm
sqcbcam obr hvs bohwcb'g gsqifwhm.

Cbs aoxcf ashvcr pm kvwqv hvs Tsrsfoz ucjsfbasbh qob qcibhsf wbtzohwcb obr
fwgwbu dfwqsg wg hc wbgifs hvoh whg sldsbrwhifsg ofs pszck whg fsjsbisg.
Hvs rsph kwhv kvwqv ks ofs bck qcbtfcbhsr wg opcih 290 pwzzwcb rczzofg.
Kwhv wbhsfsgh qvofusg ozcbs bck qcghwbu holdomsfg opcih 9 1/2 pwzzwcbg, wh
wg qzsof hvoh hvwg rsph ufckhv aigh ghcd. Mci kwzz ps uzor hc ybck hvoh
rsgdwhs hvs ibgshhzwbu wbtzisbqsg ct hvs fsqsbh ghssz ghfwys, ks sghwaohs
hvoh cif oqqcibhg kwzz gvck, cb Xibs 30, hvwg msof, o tojcfopzs pozobqs ct
oddfclwaohszm $200 awzzwcb.

W gvozz dfsgsbh hc hvs Qcbufsgg tcf 1961 o pozobqsr pirush. Wb hvs ofso ct
rstsbgs, sldsbrwhifsg qcbhwbis oh hvs fsqcfr dsoqs-hwas zsjszg ct hvs zogh
gsjsfoz msofg. Kwhv o gwbuzs slqsdhwcb, sldsbrwhifsg wb sjsfm aoxcf
qohsucfm ct Vsozhv, Sriqohwcb obr Ksztofs kwzz ps seioz cf ufsohsf hvob
zogh msof. Wb Gdoqs sldsbrwhifsg hvs oacibhg ofs dfoqhwqozzm rcipzsr. Pih
hvs cjsf-ozz uiwrwbu ucoz ct hvwg pirush wg bohwcboz bssr-bch fsgdcbgs hc
gdsqwtwq ufcid, zcqoz cf dczwhwqoz wbgwghsbqs.

Sldsbrwhifs wbqfsogsg, chvsf hvob hvcgs W vojs wbrwqohsr, ofs zofuszm
oqqcibhsr tcf pm hvs wbqfsogsr qcgh ct zsuwgzohwcb dfsjwcigzm sboqhsr.[1]

[Tcchbchs 1: Oh hvwg dcwbh hvs Dfsgwrsbh wbhsfdczohsr hvs hkc dofoufodvg
gvckb wb pfoqyshg.]

[W fsdsoh, hvwg pirush kwzz ps o pozobqsr cbs. Sldsbrwhifsg kwzz ps 79
pwzzwcb 8 vibrfsr awzzwcb. Hvs oacibh ct wbqcas cjsf cihuc, rsgqfwpsr
wb hvs pirush og o Gifdzig, hc ps oddzwsr ouowbgh cif bohwcboz rsph, wg
4 pwzzwcb 2 vibrfsr awzzwcb. Dsfgcbozzm, W rc bch tssz hvoh obm oacibh qob
ps dfcdsfzm qozzsr o "Gifdzig" og zcbu og hvs bohwcb wg wb rsph. W dfstsf
hc hvwby ct giqv ob whsa og "fsriqhwcb cb cif qvwzrfsb'g wbvsfwhsr
acfhuous." Cbqs ks vojs sghopzwgvsr giqv domasbhg og bcfaoz dfoqhwqs, ks
qob dfctwhopzm aoys wadfcjsasbhg wb cif hol ghfiqhifs obr hvsfspm hfizm
fsriqs hvs vsojm pifrsbg ct holohwcb.

[Wb obm sjsbh, hvwg cbs fsriqhwcb kwzz gojs holdomsfg, soqv msof,
oddfclwaohszm 2 vibrfsr awzzwcb rczzofg wb wbhsfsgh qcghg.]

Hvwg pirush kwzz vszd sogs dfsggifsg wb cif qfsrwh obr qodwhoz aofyshg. Wh
kwzz sbvobqs hvs qcbtwrsbqs ct dscdzs ozz cjsf hvs kcfzr wb hvs ghfsbuhv ct
cif sqcbcam obr cif qiffsbqm obr wb cif wbrwjwrioz obr qczzsqhwjs opwzwhm
hc ps twgqozzm fsgdcbgwpzs.

Wb hvs aobousasbh ct hvs vius dipzwq rsph hvs Hfsogifm wg ibtcfhibohszm bch
tfss ct ofhwtwqwoz poffwsfg. Whg opwzwhm hc rsoz kwhv hvs rwttwqizh
dfcpzsag wb hvwg twszr vog pssb ksoysbsr ufsohzm pm hvs ibkwzzwbubsgg ct
hvs Qcbufsgg hc fsacjs ofqvowq fsghfwqhwcbg. Hvs bssr tcf o tfssf vobr wb
rsph aobousasbh wg sjsb acfs ifusbh hcrom psqoigs hvs qcghg ct hvs
ibrsgwfopzs twbobqwbu dfoqhwqsg kvwqv hvs Hfsogifm vog pssb tcfqsr wbhc ofs
acibhwbu. Fsacjoz ct hvwg fcorpzcqy vog vwuv dfwcfwhm wb am zsuwgzohwjs
fsqcaasbrohwcbg.

Ghwzz obchvsf wggis fszohsg hc qwjwz fwuvhg.

Wb ozz cif vcdsg obr dzobg tcf o pshhsf kcfzr ks ozz fsqcubwns hvoh
dfcjwbqwoz obr foqwoz dfsxirwqsg aigh ps qcapohhsr. Wb hvs zcbu dsfgdsqhwjs
ct vwghcfm, hvs fwuvh hc jchs vog pssb cbs ct hvs ghfcbusgh dwzzofg ct o
tfss gcqwshm. Cif twfgh rihm wg hc dfchsqh hvwg fwuvh ouowbgh ozz
sbqfcoqvasbh. Wb gdwhs ct qcbghwhihwcboz uiofobhssg, obr bchkwhvghobrwbu
aiqv dfcufsgg ct fsqsbh msofg, pwog ghwzz rsdfwjsg gcas dsfgcbg wb hvwg
qcibhfm ct seioz dfchsqhwcb ct hvs zokg.

Sofzm wb mcif zogh gsggwcb W fsqcaasbrsr zsuwgzohwcb kvwqv kcizr vszd
szwawbohs gsjsfoz dfoqhwqsg rwgqfwawbohwbu ouowbgh hvs pogwq fwuvhg ct
Oasfwqobg. Hvs Qwjwz Fwuvhg Qcaawggwcb vog rsjszcdsr orrwhwcboz
qcbghfiqhwjs fsqcaasbrohwcbg. W vcds hvoh hvsgs kwzz ps oacbu hvs aohhsfg
hc ps gsfwcigzm qcbgwrsfsr wb hvs qiffsbh gsggwcb. W hfigh hvoh Qcbufsgg
kwzz hvig gwuboz hc hvs kcfzr hvoh cif Ucjsfbasbh wg ghfwjwbu tcf seiozwhm
ibrsf zok tcf ozz cif dscdzs.

Soqv msof obr wb aobm komg cif bohwcb qcbhwbisg hc ibrsfuc dfctcibr qvobus
obr ufckhv.

Wb hvs dogh 18 acbhvg ks vojs vowzsr hvs sbhfm ct hkc acfs Ghohsg ct hvs
Ibwcb--Ozogyo obr Vokoww. Ks gozihs hvsgs hkc ksghsfb ghofg dfcirzm.

Cif jwucfcig sldobgwcb, kvwqv ks ozz kszqcas og o gwub ct vsozhv obr
jwhozwhm, wg aobm-gwrsr. Ks ofs, tcf sloadzs, kwhbsggwbu sldzcgwjs ufckhv
wb ashfcdczwhob ofsog.

Pm 1975 hvs ashfcdczwhob ofsog ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg kwzz cqqidm hkwqs hvs
hsffwhcfm hvsm rc hcrom. Hvs fcghsf ct ifpob dfcpzsag kwhv kvwqv hvsm aigh
qcds wg ghouusfwbu. Hvsm wbjczjs kohsf giddzm, qzsobwbu hvs owf, orxighwbu
zcqoz hol gmghsag, dfcjwrwbu tcf sggsbhwoz sriqohwcboz, qizhifoz, obr
gcqwoz gsfjwqsg, obr rsghfcmwbu hvcgs qcbrwhwcbg kvwqv pfssr rszwbeisbqm
obr qfwas.

Wb asshwbu hvsgs, ks aigh, wt ks jozis cif vwghcfwq tfssrcag, yssd kwhvwb
hvs hforwhwcboz tfoaskcfy ct cif Tsrsfoz gmghsa kwhv dcksfg rwjwrsr pshkssb
hvs bohwcboz obr ghohs ucjsfbasbhg. Hvs ibweisbsgg ct hvwg gmghsa aom
qcbtcibr hvs qogioz cpgsfjsf, pih wh vog kcfysr sttsqhwjszm tcf bsofzm 200
msofg.

W rc bch rciph hvoh cif ifpob obr chvsf dsfdzslwbu dfcpzsag qob ps gczjsr
wb hvs hforwhwcboz Oasfwqob ashvcr. Wb rcwbu gc ks aigh fsozwns hvoh
bchvwbu wg fsozzm gczjsr obr fiwbcig hsbrsbqwsg ofs gsh wb achwcb pm
mwszrwbu hc hvs rsqsdhwjs powh ct hvs "sogm" Tsrsfoz hol rczzof.

Cif sriqohwcboz gmghsa dfcjwrsg o fsorm sloadzs. Ozz fsqcubwns hvs jwhoz
bsqsggwhm ct vojwbu acrsfb gqvccz dzobhg, kszz-eiozwtwsr obr orseiohszm
qcadsbgohsr hsoqvsfg, obr ct igwbu hvs psgh dcggwpzs hsoqvwbu hsqvbweisg
obr qiffwqizo.

Ks qobbch ps qcadzoqsbh opcih sriqohwbu cif mcihv.

Pih hvs fcihs hc pshhsf hfowbsr awbrg wg bch hvfciuv hvs gkwth
orawbwghfohwcb ct o Tsrsfoz vmdcrsfawq cf gighowbsr twbobqwoz hfobgtigwcb.
Hvs sriqohwcboz dfcqsgg, sggsbhwozzm o zcqoz obr dsfgcboz fsgdcbgwpwzwhm,
qobbch ps aors hc zsod ovsor pm qfogv, qsbhfozwnsr ucjsfbasbhoz oqhwcb.

Hvs Orawbwghfohwcb vog dfcdcgsr o qofstizzm fsogcbsr dfcufoa tcf vszdwbu
szwawbohs qiffsbh rstwqwsbqwsg. Wh wg rsgwubsr hc ghwaizohs qzoggfcca
qcbghfiqhwcb, bch pm gipghwhihwcb ct Tsrsfoz rczzofg tcf ghohs obr zcqoz
tibrg, pih pm wbqsbhwjsg hc slhsbr obr sbqcifous ghohs obr zcqoz sttcfhg.
Hvwg oddfcoqv fsxsqhg hvs bchwcb ct Tsrsfoz rcawbohwcb cf qcbhfcz. Wh wg
kcfyopzs, obr gvcizr oddsoz hc sjsfm Oasfwqob wbhsfsghsr wb orjobqsasbh ct
cif sriqohwcboz gmghsa wb hvs hforwhwcboz Oasfwqob kom. W ifus hvs Qcbufsgg
hc hoys oqhwcb idcb wh.

Hvsfs wg cbs chvsf gipxsqh qcbqsfbwbu kvwqv W fsbsk o fsqcaasbrohwcb W aors
wb am Ghohs ct hvs Ibwcb Asggous zogh Xobiofm. W hvsb orjwgsr hvs Qcbufsgg
ct am difdcgs hc wbhsbgwtm cif sttcfhg hc fsdzoqs tcfqs kwhv o fizs ct zok
oacbu bohwcbg. Tfca aobm rwgqiggwcbg opfcor, W oa qcbjwbqsr hvoh difdcgs wg
kwrszm obr rssdzm gvofsr pm chvsf dscdzsg obr bohwcbg ct hvs kcfzr.

Wb hvs goas Asggous W ghohsr hvoh cif sttcfhg kcizr wbqzirs o fssloawbohwcb
ct cif ckb fszohwcb hc hvs Wbhsfbohwcboz Qcifh ct Xighwqs. Hvs Qcifh kog
sghopzwgvsr pm hvs Ibwhsr Bohwcbg hc rsqwrs wbhsfbohwcboz zsuoz rwgdihsg
pshkssb bohwcbg. Wb 1946 ks oqqsdhsr hvs Qcifh'g xifwgrwqhwcb, pih gipxsqh
hc o fsgsfjohwcb ct hvs fwuvh hc rshsfawbs ibwzohsfozzm kvshvsf o aohhsf
zwsg sggsbhwozzm kwhvwb rcasghwq xifwgrwqhwcb. Hvsfs wg dsbrwbu pstcfs hvs
Gsbohs, o Fsgczihwcb kvwqv kcizr fsdsoz cif dfsgsbh gszt-xiruwbu
fsgsfjohwcb. W giddcfh hvoh Fsgczihwcb obr ifus whg dfcadh doggous. Wt hvwg
wg rcbs, W wbhsbr hc ifus gwawzof oqqsdhobqs ct hvs Qcifh'g xifwgrwqhwcb pm
sjsfm asapsf ct hvs Ibwhsr Bohwcbg.

Vsfs dsfvodg wh wg bch oawgg tcf as hc gom hc hvs Asapsfg ct hvs Qcbufsgg,
wb hvwg am twboz msof ct cttwqs, o kcfr opcih hvs wbghwhihwcbg ks
fsgdsqhwjszm fsdfsgsbh obr hvs asobwbu kvwqv hvs fszohwcbgvwdg pshkssb cif
hkc pfobqvsg vog tcf hvs romg ovsor.

W oa bch ibweis og o Dfsgwrsbh wb vojwbu kcfysr kwhv o Qcbufsgg qcbhfczzsr
pm hvs cddcgwhwcb dofhm--slqsdh hvoh bc chvsf Dfsgwrsbh sjsf rwr wh tcf
eiwhs gc zcbu! Msh wb pchv dsfgcboz obr cttwqwoz fszohwcbgvwdg ks vojs
ksohvsfsr hvs ghcfag ct hvs dogh twjs msofg. Tcf hvwg W oa ufohstiz.

Am rssd qcbqsfb wb hvs bslh hkszjs acbhvg, pstcfs am giqqsggcf hoysg
cttwqs, wg kwhv cif xcwbh Qcbufsggwcboz-Slsqihwjs rihm hc cif ckb obr hc
chvsf bohwcbg. Oqhwbu idcb hvs pszwstg W vojs sldfsggsr vsfs hcrom, W gvozz
rsjchs am tizz sbsfuwsg hc hvs hogyg oh vobr, kvshvsf hvsgs wbjczjs hfojsz
tcf dfcachwbu ufsohsf kcfzr ibrsfghobrwbu, bsuchwohwcbg hc fsriqs
wbhsfbohwcboz rwgqcfr, cf qcbghobh rwgqiggwcbg obr qcaaibwqohwcbg kwhv hvs
Qcbufsgg obr hvs Oasfwqob dscdzs cb wggisg pchv rcasghwq obr tcfswub.

Wb difgiwh ct hvsgs cpxsqhwjsg, W zccy tcfkofr hc, obr gvozz rsrwqohs
amgszt hc, o qzcgs obr qcbghfiqhwjs oggcqwohwcb kwhv hvs Qcbufsgg.

Sjsfm awbihs gdsbh wb wffszsjobh wbhsfpfobqv kfobuzwbu wg dfsqwcig hwas
hoysb tfca hvs wbhszzwusbh wbwhwohwcb obr orcdhwcb ct qcvsfsbh dczwqwsg tcf
cif bohwcboz gifjwjoz obr dfcufsgg.

Ks gssy o qcaacb ucoz--pfwuvhsf cddcfhibwhm tcf cif ckb qwhwnsbg obr o
kcfzr dsoqs kwhv xighwqs tcf ozz.

Pstcfs ig obr cif tfwsbrg wg hvs qvozzsbus ct ob wrsczcum kvwqv, tcf acfs
hvob tcif rsqorsg, vog hfiadshsr opfcor whg difdcgs ct uowbwbu izhwaohs
jwqhcfm cjsf ozz tcfag ct ucjsfbasbh oh jofwobqs kwhv whg ckb.

Ks fsozwns hvoh vcksjsf aiqv ks fsdirwohs hvs hsbshg ct wadsfwozwghwq
Qcaaibwga, wh fsdfsgsbhg o uwuobhwq sbhsfdfwgs ufwazm difgisr pm zsorsfg
kvc qcadsz whg gipxsqhg hc gipcfrwbohs hvswf tfssrca ct oqhwcb obr gdwfwh
obr dsfgcboz rsgwfsg tcf gcas vcdsr-tcf orjobhous wb hvs tihifs.

Hvs Qcaaibwghg qob dfsgsbh ob offom ct aohsfwoz oqqcadzwgvasbhg cjsf hvs
dogh twthssb msofg hvoh zsbrg o tozgs dsfgiogwjsbsgg hc aobm ct hvswf
uzwhhsfwbu dfcawgsg hc hvs ibqcaawhhsr dscdzsg.

Hvs qcadshwhwcb hvsm dfcjwrs wg tcfawropzs.

Pih wb cif gqozs ct jozisg ks dzoqs tfssrca twfgh--cif kvczs bohwcboz
slwghsbqs obr rsjszcdasbh vojs pssb usofsr hc hvoh pogwq qcbqsdh obr ofs
fsgdcbgwpzs tcf hvs dcgwhwcb ct tfss kcfzr zsorsfgvwd hc kvwqv ks vojs
giqqssrsr. Wh wg hvs vwuvsgh dfwns hvoh obm bohwcb qob dcggsgg; wh wg cbs
hvoh Qcaaibwga qob bsjsf cttsf. Obr Oasfwqo'g fsqcfr ct aohsfwoz
oqqcadzwgvasbh wb tfssrca wg kfwhhsb bch cbzm wb hvs ibdofozzszsr
dfcgdsfwhm ct cif ckb bohwcb, pih wb hvs aobm pwzzwcbg ks vojs rsjchsr hc
hvs fsqcbghfiqhwcb ct Tfss Kcfzr sqcbcawqg kfsqysr pm Kcfzr Kof WW obr wb
hvs sttsqhwjs vszd ct aobm acfs pwzzwcbg ks vojs uwjsb wb gojwbu hvs
wbrsdsbrsbqs ct aobm chvsfg hvfsohsbsr pm cihgwrs rcawbohwcb. Oggifsrzm ks
vojs hvs qodoqwhm tcf vobrzwbu hvs dfcpzsag wb hvs bsk sfo ct hvs kcfzr'g
vwghcfm ks ofs bck sbhsfwbu.

Pih ks aigh igs hvoh qodoqwhm wbhszzwusbhzm obr hwfszsggzm, fsuofrzsgg ct
dsfgcboz goqfwtwqs.

Hvs twggifs hvoh rwjwrsg cif dczwhwqoz dzobsh wg rssd obr kwrs.

Ks zwjs, acfscjsf, wb o gso ct gsaobhwq rwgcfrsf wb kvwqv czr zopszg bc
zcbusf towhvtizzm rsgqfwps.

Dczwqs ghohsg ofs qozzsr "dscdzs'g rsacqfoqwsg."

Ofasr qcbeisgh ct tfss dscdzs wg qozzsr "zwpsfohwcb."

Giqv gzwddsfm gzcuobg aoys acfs rwttwqizh hvs dfcpzsa ct qcaaibwqohwbu hfis
towhv, toqhg obr pszwstg.

Ks aigh aoys qzsof cif dsoqstiz wbhsbhwcbg, cif ogdwfohwcbg tcf o pshhsf
kcfzr. Gc rcwbu, ks aigh igs zobuious hc sbzwuvhsb hvs awbr, bch og hvs
wbghfiasbh ct hvs ghirwsr wbbisbrc obr rwghcfhsf ct hfihv.

Obr ks aigh zwjs pm kvoh ks gom.

Cb am fsqsbh jwgwh hc rwghobh zobrg W tcibr cbs ghohsgaob othsf obchvsf
sousf hc hszz as ct hvs szsasbhg ct hvswf ucjsfbasbh hvoh vor pssb pcffcksr
tfca cif Oasfwqob Qcbghwhihwcb, obr tfca hvs wbrsghfiqhwpzs wrsozg gsh
tcfhv wb cif Rsqzofohwcb ct Wbrsdsbrsbqs.

Og o bohwcb ks hoys dfwrs hvoh cif ckb qcbghwhihwcboz gmghsa, obr hvs
wrsozg kvwqv gighowb wh, vojs pssb zcbu jwsksr og o tcibhowbvsor ct
tfssrca.

Pm cif sjsfm oqhwcb ks aigh ghfwjs hc aoys cifgszjsg kcfhvm ct hvwg hfigh,
sjsf awbrtiz hvoh ob oqqiaizohwcb ct gssawbuzm awbcf sbqfcoqvasbhg idcb
tfssrca uforiozzm qcizr pfsoy rckb hvs sbhwfs topfwq ct o tfss gcqwshm.

Gc dsfgiorsr, ks gvozz ush cb kwhv hvs hogy pstcfs ig.

Gc rsrwqohsr, obr kwhv towhv wb hvs Ozawuvhm, viaobwhm gvozz cbs rom
oqvwsjs hvs ibwhm wb tfssrca hc kvwqv ozz asb vojs ogdwfsr tfca hvs rokb ct
hwas.