Sryybj-Pvgvmraf bs gur Frangr naq bs gur Ubhfr bs Ercerfragngvirf:

V pbatenghyngr lbh naq bhe pbzzba pbafgvghrapl hcba gur snibenoyr nhfcvprf
haqre juvpu lbh zrrg sbe lbhe svefg frffvba. Bhe pbhagel vf ng crnpr jvgu
nyy gur jbeyq. Gur ntvgngvba juvpu sbe n gvzr guerngrarq gb qvfgheo gur
sengreany eryngvbaf juvpu znxr hf bar crbcyr vf snfg fhofvqvat, naq n lrne
bs trareny cebfcrevgl naq urnygu unf pebjarq gur angvba jvgu hahfhny
oyrffvatf. Abar pna ybbx onpx gb gur qnatref juvpu ner cnffrq be sbejneq gb
gur oevtug cebfcrpg orsber hf jvgubhg srryvat n guevyy bs tengvsvpngvba, ng
gur fnzr gvzr gung ur zhfg or vzcerffrq jvgu n tengrshy frafr bs bhe
cebsbhaq boyvtngvbaf gb n orarsvprag Cebivqrapr, jubfr cngreany pner vf fb
znavsrfg va gur unccvarff bs guvf uvtuyl sniberq ynaq.

Fvapr gur pybfr bs gur ynfg Pbaterff pregnva Phonaf naq bgure sbervtaref
erfvqrag va gur Havgrq Fgngrf, jub jrer zber be yrff pbaprearq va gur
cerivbhf vainfvba bs Phon, vafgrnq bs orvat qvfpbhentrq ol vgf snvyher unir
ntnva nohfrq gur ubfcvgnyvgl bs guvf pbhagel ol znxvat vg gur fprar bs gur
rdhvczrag bs nabgure zvyvgnel rkcrqvgvba ntnvafg gung cbffrffvba bs Ure
Pngubyvp Znwrfgl, va juvpu gurl jrer pbhagranaprq, nvqrq, naq wbvarq ol
pvgvmraf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Ba erprvivat vagryyvtrapr gung fhpu qrfvtaf
jrer ragregnvarq, V ybfg ab gvzr va vffhvat fhpu vafgehpgvbaf gb gur cebcre
bssvpref bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf nf frrzrq gb or pnyyrq sbe ol gur bppnfvba.
Ol gur cebpynzngvba n pbcl bs juvpu vf urerjvgu fhozvggrq V nyfb jnearq
gubfr jub zvtug or va qnatre bs orvat vairvtyrq vagb guvf fpurzr bs vgf
haynjshy punenpgre naq bs gur cranygvrf juvpu gurl jbhyq vaphe. Sbe fbzr
gvzr gurer jnf ernfba gb ubcr gung gurfr zrnfherf unq fhssvprq gb cerirag
nal fhpu nggrzcg. Guvf ubcr, ubjrire, cebirq gb or qryhfvir. Irel rneyl va
gur zbeavat bs gur 3q bs Nhthfg n fgrnzre pnyyrq gur Cnzcreb qrcnegrq sebz
Arj Beyrnaf sbe Phon, univat ba obneq hcjneq bs 400 nezrq zra jvgu rivqrag
vagragvbaf gb znxr jne hcba gur nhgubevgvrf bs gur vfynaq. Guvf rkcrqvgvba
jnf frg ba sbbg va cnycnoyr ivbyngvba bs gur ynjf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Vgf
yrnqre jnf n Fcnavneq, naq frireny bs gur puvrs bssvpref naq fbzr bguref
ratntrq va vg jrer sbervtaref. Gur crefbaf pbzcbfvat vg, ubjrire, jrer
zbfgyl pvgvmraf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf.

Orsber gur rkcrqvgvba frg bhg, naq cebonoyl orsber vg jnf betnavmrq, n
fyvtug vafheerpgvbanel zbirzrag, juvpu nccrnef gb unir orra fbba
fhccerffrq, unq gnxra cynpr va gur rnfgrea dhnegre bs Phon. Gur vzcbegnapr
bs guvf zbirzrag jnf, hasbeghangryl, fb zhpu rknttrengrq va gur nppbhagf bs
vg choyvfurq va guvf pbhagel gung gurfr nqiragheref frrz gb unir orra yrq
gb oryvrir gung gur Perbyr cbchyngvba bs gur vfynaq abg bayl qrfverq gb
guebj bss gur nhgubevgl bs gur zbgure pbhagel, ohg unq erfbyirq hcba gung
fgrc naq unq ortha n jryy-pbapregrq ragrecevfr sbe rssrpgvat vg. Gur
crefbaf ratntrq va gur rkcrqvgvba jrer trarenyyl lbhat naq vyy vasbezrq.
Gur fgrnzre va juvpu gurl rzonexrq yrsg Arj Beyrnaf fgrnyguvyl naq jvgubhg
n pyrnenapr. Nsgre gbhpuvat ng Xrl Jrfg, fur cebprrqrq gb gur pbnfg bs
Phon, naq ba gur avtug orgjrra gur 11gu naq 12gu bs Nhthfg ynaqrq gur
crefbaf ba obneq ng Cynlgnf, jvguva nobhg 20 yrnthrf bs Uninan.

Gur znva obql bs gurz cebprrqrq gb naq gbbx cbffrffvba bs na vaynaq ivyyntr
6 yrnthrf qvfgnag, yrnivat bguref gb sbyybj va punetr bs gur onttntr nf
fbba nf gur zrnaf bs genafcbegngvba pbhyq or bognvarq. Gur ynggre, univat
gnxra hc gurve yvar bs znepu gb pbaarpg gurzfryirf jvgu gur znva obql, naq
univat cebprrqrq nobhg 4 yrnthrf vagb gur pbhagel, jrer nggnpxrq ba gur
zbeavat bs gur 13gu ol n obql bs Fcnavfu gebbcf, naq n oybbql pbasyvpg
rafhrq, nsgre juvpu gurl ergerngrq gb gur cynpr bs qvfrzonexngvba, jurer
nobhg 50 bs gurz bognvarq obngf naq errzonexrq gurerva. Gurl jrer, ubjrire,
vagreprcgrq nzbat gur xrlf arne gur fuber ol n Fcnavfu fgrnzre pehvfvat ba
gur pbnfg, pncgherq naq pneevrq gb Uninan, naq nsgre orvat rknzvarq orsber
n zvyvgnel pbheg jrer fragraprq gb or choyvpyl rkrphgrq, naq gur fragrapr
jnf pneevrq vagb rssrpg ba gur 16gu bs Nhthfg.

Ba erprvivat vasbezngvba bs jung unq bppheerq Pbzzbqber Sbkunyy N. Cnexre
jnf vafgehpgrq gb cebprrq va gur fgrnz sevtngr Fnenanp gb Uninan naq
vadhver vagb gur punetrf ntnvafg gur crefbaf rkrphgrq, gur pvephzfgnaprf
haqre juvpu gurl jrer gnxra, naq jungfbrire ersreerq gb gurve gevny naq
fragrapr. Pbcvrf bs gur vafgehpgvbaf sebz gur Qrcnegzrag bs Fgngr gb uvz
naq bs uvf yrggref gb gung Qrcnegzrag ner urerjvgu fhozvggrq.

Nppbeqvat gb gur erpbeq bs gur rknzvangvba, gur cevfbaref nyy nqzvggrq gur
bssrafrf punetrq ntnvafg gurz, bs orvat ubfgvyr vainqref bs gur vfynaq. Ng
gur gvzr bs gurve gevny naq rkrphgvba gur znva obql bs gur vainqref jnf
fgvyy va gur svryq znxvat jne hcba gur Fcnavfu nhgubevgvrf naq Fcnavfu
fhowrpgf. Nsgre gur yncfr bs fbzr qnlf, orvat birepbzr ol gur Fcnavfu
gebbcf, gurl qvfcrefrq ba gur 24gu bs Nhthfg. Ybcrm, gurve yrnqre, jnf
pncgherq fbzr qnlf nsgre, naq rkrphgrq ba gur 1fg bs Frcgrzore. Znal bs uvf
erznvavat sbyybjref jrer xvyyrq be qvrq bs uhatre naq sngvthr, naq gur erfg
jrer znqr cevfbaref. Bs gurfr abar nccrne gb unir orra gevrq be rkrphgrq.
Frireny bs gurz jrer cneqbarq hcba nccyvpngvba bs gurve sevraqf naq bguref,
naq gur erfg, nobhg 160 va ahzore, jrer frag gb Fcnva. Bs gur svany
qvfcbfvgvba znqr bs gurfr jr unir ab bssvpvny vasbezngvba.

Fhpu vf gur zrynapubyl erfhyg bs guvf vyyrtny naq vyy-sngrq rkcrqvgvba.
Guhf gubhtugyrff lbhat zra unir orra vaqhprq ol snyfr naq senhqhyrag
ercerfragngvbaf gb ivbyngr gur ynj bs gurve pbhagel guebhtu enfu naq
hasbhaqrq rkcrpgngvbaf bs nffvfgvat gb nppbzcyvfu cbyvgvpny eribyhgvbaf va
bgure fgngrf, naq unir ybfg gurve yvirf va gur haqregnxvat. Gbb frirer n
whqtzrag pna uneqyl or cnffrq ol gur vaqvtanag frafr bs gur pbzzhavgl hcba
gubfr jub, orvat orggre vasbezrq gurzfryirf, unir lrg yrq njnl gur neqbe bs
lbhgu naq na vyy-qverpgrq ybir bs cbyvgvpny yvoregl. Gur pbeerfcbaqrapr
orgjrra guvf Tbireazrag naq gung bs Fcnva eryngvat gb guvf genafnpgvba vf
urerjvgu pbzzhavpngrq.

Nygubhtu gurfr bssraqref ntnvafg gur ynjf unir sbesrvgrq gur cebgrpgvba bs
gurve pbhagel, lrg gur Tbireazrag znl, fb sne nf pbafvfgrag jvgu vgf
boyvtngvbaf gb bgure pbhagevrf naq vgf svkrq checbfr gb znvagnva naq
rasbepr gur ynjf, ragregnva flzcngul sbe gurve habssraqvat snzvyvrf naq
sevraqf, nf jryy nf n srryvat bs pbzcnffvba sbe gurzfryirf. Nppbeqvatyl, ab
cebcre rssbeg unf orra fcnerq naq abar jvyy or fcnerq gb cebpher gur
eryrnfr bs fhpu pvgvmraf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf ratntrq va guvf haynjshy
ragrecevfr nf ner abj va pbasvarzrag va Fcnva; ohg vg vf gb or ubcrq gung
fhpu vagrecbfvgvba jvgu gur Tbireazrag bs gung pbhagel znl abg or
pbafvqrerq nf nssbeqvat nal tebhaq bs rkcrpgngvba gung gur Tbireazrag bs
gur Havgrq Fgngrf jvyy urernsgre srry vgfrys haqre nal boyvtngvba bs qhgl
gb vagreprqr sbe gur yvorengvba be cneqba bs fhpu crefbaf nf ner syntenag
bssraqref ntnvafg gur ynj bs angvbaf naq gur ynjf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf.
Gurfr ynjf zhfg or rkrphgrq. Vs jr qrfver gb znvagnva bhe erfcrpgnovyvgl
nzbat gur angvbaf bs gur rnegu, vg orubbirf hf gb rasbepr fgrnqvyl naq
fgreayl gur arhgenyvgl npgf cnffrq ol Pbaterff naq gb sbyybj nf sne nf znl
or gur ivbyngvba bs gubfr npgf jvgu pbaqvta chavfuzrag.

Ohg jung tvirf n crphyvne pevzvanyvgl gb guvf vainfvba bs Phon vf gung,
haqre gur yrnq bs Fcnavfu fhowrpgf naq jvgu gur nvq bs pvgvmraf bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf, vg unq vgf bevtva jvgu znal va zbgvirf bs phcvqvgl. Zbarl
jnf nqinaprq ol vaqvivqhnyf, cebonoyl va pbafvqrenoyr nzbhagf, gb chepunfr
Phona obaqf, nf gurl unir orra pnyyrq, vffhrq ol Ybcrm, fbyq, qbhogyrff, ng
n irel ynetr qvfpbhag, naq sbe gur cnlzrag bs juvpu gur choyvp ynaqf naq
choyvp cebcregl bs Phon, bs jungrire xvaq, naq gur svfpny erfbheprf bs gur
crbcyr naq tbireazrag bs gung vfynaq, sebz jungrire fbhepr gb or qrevirq,
jrer cyrqtrq, nf jryy nf gur tbbq snvgu bs gur tbireazrag rkcrpgrq gb or
rfgnoyvfurq. Nyy gurfr zrnaf bs cnlzrag, vg vf rivqrag, jrer bayl gb or
bognvarq ol n cebprff bs oybbqfurq, jne, naq eribyhgvba. Abar jvyy qral
gung gubfr jub frg ba sbbg zvyvgnel rkcrqvgvbaf ntnvafg sbervta fgngrf ol
zrnaf yvxr gurfr ner sne zber phycnoyr guna gur vtabenag naq gur
arprffvgbhf jubz gurl vaqhpr gb tb sbegu nf gur bfgrafvoyr cnegvrf va gur
cebprrqvat. Gurfr bevtvangbef bs gur vainfvba bs Phon frrz gb unir
qrgrezvarq jvgu pbbyarff naq flfgrz hcba na haqregnxvat juvpu fubhyq
qvftenpr gurve pbhagel, ivbyngr vgf ynjf, naq chg gb unmneq gur yvirf bs
vyy-vasbezrq naq qryhqrq zra. Lbh jvyy pbafvqre jurgure shegure yrtvfyngvba
or arprffnel gb cerirag gur crecrgengvba bs fhpu bssrafrf va shgher.

Ab vaqvivqhnyf unir n evtug gb unmneq gur crnpr bs gur pbhagel be gb
ivbyngr vgf ynjf hcba inthr abgvbaf bs nygrevat be ersbezvat tbireazragf va
bgure fgngrf. Guvf cevapvcyr vf abg bayl ernfbanoyr va vgfrys naq va
nppbeqnapr jvgu choyvp ynj, ohg vf vatensgrq vagb gur pbqrf bs bgure
angvbaf nf jryy nf bhe bja. Ohg juvyr fhpu ner gur fragvzragf bs guvf
Tbireazrag, vg znl or nqqrq gung rirel vaqrcraqrag angvba zhfg or cerfhzrq
gb or noyr gb qrsraq vgf cbffrffvbaf ntnvafg hanhgubevmrq vaqvivqhnyf
onaqrq gbtrgure gb nggnpx gurz. Gur Tbireazrag bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf ng nyy
gvzrf fvapr vgf rfgnoyvfuzrag unf nofgnvarq naq unf fbhtug gb erfgenva gur
pvgvmraf bs gur pbhagel sebz ragrevat vagb pbagebirefvrf orgjrra bgure
cbjref, naq gb bofreir nyy gur qhgvrf bs arhgenyvgl. Ng na rneyl crevbq bs
gur Tbireazrag, va gur Nqzvavfgengvba bs Jnfuvatgba, frireny ynjf jrer
cnffrq sbe guvf checbfr. Gur znva cebivfvbaf bs gurfr ynjf jrer erranpgrq
ol gur npg bs Ncevy, 1818, ol juvpu, nzbatfg bgure guvatf, vg jnf qrpynerq
gung--

Vs nal crefba funyy, jvguva gur greevgbel be whevfqvpgvba bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf, ortva, be frg ba sbbg, be cebivqr be cercner gur zrnaf sbe, nal
zvyvgnel rkcrqvgvba be ragrecevfr gb or pneevrq ba sebz gurapr ntnvafg gur
greevgbel be qbzvavbaf bs nal sbervta cevapr be fgngr, be bs nal pbybal,
qvfgevpg, be crbcyr, jvgu jubz gur Havgrq Fgngrf ner ng crnpr, rirel crefba
fb bssraqvat funyy or qrrzrq thvygl bs n uvtu zvfqrzrnabe, naq funyy or
svarq abg rkprrqvat $3,000 naq vzcevfbarq abg zber guna guerr lrnef.

Naq guvf ynj unf orra rkrphgrq naq rasbeprq gb gur shyy rkgrag bs gur cbjre
bs gur Tbireazrag sebz gung qnl gb guvf.

Va cebpynvzvat naq nqurevat gb gur qbpgevar bs arhgenyvgl naq
abavagreiragvba, gur Havgrq Fgngrf unir abg sbyybjrq gur yrnq bs bgure
pvivyvmrq angvbaf; gurl unir gnxra gur yrnq gurzfryirf naq unir orra
sbyybjrq ol bguref. Guvf jnf nqzvggrq ol bar bs gur zbfg rzvarag bs zbqrea
Oevgvfu fgngrfzra, jub fnvq va Cneyvnzrag, juvyr n zvavfgre bs gur Pebja,
"gung vs ur jvfurq sbe n thvqr va n flfgrz bs arhgenyvgl ur fubhyq gnxr
gung ynvq qbja ol Nzrevpn va gur qnlf bs Jnfuvatgba naq gur frpergnelfuvc
bs Wrssrefba;" naq jr frr, va snpg, gung gur npg bs Pbaterff bs 1818 jnf
sbyybjrq gur fhpprrqvat lrne ol na npg bs gur Cneyvnzrag bs Ratynaq
fhofgnagvnyyl gur fnzr va vgf trareny cebivfvbaf. Hc gb gung gvzr gurer unq
orra ab fvzvyne ynj va Ratynaq, rkprcg pregnva uvtuyl crany fgnghgrf cnffrq
va gur ervta bs Trbetr VV, cebuvovgvat Ratyvfu fhowrpgf sebz rayvfgvat va
sbervta freivpr, gur nibjrq bowrpg bs juvpu fgnghgrf jnf gung sbervta
nezvrf, envfrq sbe gur checbfr bs erfgbevat gur ubhfr bs Fghneg gb gur
guebar, fubhyq abg or fgeratgurarq ol erpehvgf sebz Ratynaq urefrys.

Nyy zhfg frr gung qvssvphygvrf znl nevfr va pneelvat gur ynjf ersreerq gb
vagb rkrphgvba va n pbhagel abj univat 3,000 be 4,000 zvyrf bs frnpbnfg,
jvgu na vasvavgr ahzore bs cbegf naq uneobef naq fznyy vayrgf, sebz fbzr bs
juvpu haynjshy rkcrqvgvbhf znl fhqqrayl frg sbegu, jvgubhg gur xabjyrqtr bs
Tbireazrag, ntnvafg gur cbffrffvbaf bs sbervta fgngrf.

"Sevraqyl eryngvbaf jvgu nyy, ohg ragnatyvat nyyvnaprf jvgu abar," unf ybat
orra n znkvz jvgu hf. Bhe gehr zvffvba vf abg gb cebcntngr bhe bcvavbaf be
vzcbfr hcba bgure pbhagevrf bhe sbez bs tbireazrag ol negvsvpr be sbepr,
ohg gb grnpu ol rknzcyr naq fubj ol bhe fhpprff, zbqrengvba, naq whfgvpr
gur oyrffvatf bs frys-tbireazrag naq gur nqinagntrf bs serr vafgvghgvbaf.
Yrg rirel crbcyr pubbfr sbe vgfrys naq znxr naq nygre vgf cbyvgvpny
vafgvghgvbaf gb fhvg vgf bja pbaqvgvba naq pbairavrapr. Ohg juvyr jr nibj
naq znvagnva guvf arhgeny cbyvpl bhefryirf, jr ner nakvbhf gb frr gur fnzr
sbeornenapr ba gur cneg bs bgure angvbaf jubfr sbezf bs tbireazrag ner
qvssrerag sebz bhe bja. Gur qrrc vagrerfg juvpu jr srry va gur fcernq bs
yvoreny cevapvcyrf naq gur rfgnoyvfuzrag bs serr tbireazragf naq gur
flzcngul jvgu juvpu jr jvgarff rirel fgehttyr ntnvafg bccerffvba sbeovq
gung jr fubhyq or vaqvssrerag gb n pnfr va juvpu gur fgebat nez bs n
sbervta cbjre vf vaibxrq gb fgvsyr choyvp fragvzrag naq ercerff gur fcvevg
bs serrqbz va nal pbhagel.

Gur Tbireazragf bs Terng Oevgnva naq Senapr unir vffhrq beqref gb gurve
aniny pbzznaqref ba gur Jrfg Vaqvn fgngvba gb cerirag, ol sbepr vs
arprffnel, gur ynaqvat bs nqiragheref sebz nal angvba ba gur vfynaq bs Phon
jvgu ubfgvyr vagrag. Gur pbcl bs n zrzbenaqhz bs n pbairefngvba ba guvf
fhowrpg orgjrra gur punetr q'nssnverf bs Ure Oevgnaavp Znwrfgl naq gur
Npgvat Frpergnel bs Fgngr naq bs n fhofrdhrag abgr bs gur sbezre gb gur
Qrcnegzrag bs Fgngr ner urerjvgu fhozvggrq, gbtrgure jvgu n pbcl bs n abgr
bs gur Npgvat Frpergnel bs Fgngr gb gur zvavfgre bs gur Serapu Erchoyvp naq
bs gur ercyl bs gur ynggre ba gur fnzr fhowrpg. Gurfr cncref jvyy npdhnvag
lbh jvgu gur tebhaqf bs guvf vagrecbfvgvba bs gjb yrnqvat pbzzrepvny cbjref
bs Rhebcr, naq jvgu gur nccerurafvbaf, juvpu guvf Tbireazrag pbhyq abg snvy
gb ragregnva, gung fhpu vagrecbfvgvba, vs pneevrq vagb rssrpg, zvtug yrnq
gb nohfrf va qrebtngvba bs gur znevgvzr evtugf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Gur
znevgvzr evtugf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf ner sbhaqrq ba n svez, frpher, naq
jryy-qrsvarq onfvf; gurl fgnaq hcba gur tebhaq bs angvbany vaqrcraqrapr naq
choyvp ynj, naq jvyy or znvagnvarq va nyy gurve shyy naq whfg rkgrag. Gur
cevapvcyr juvpu guvf Tbireazrag unf urergbsber fbyrzayl naabhaprq vg fgvyy
nqurerf gb, naq jvyy znvagnva haqre nyy pvephzfgnaprf naq ng nyy unmneqf.
Gung cevapvcyr vf gung va rirel erthyneyl qbphzragrq zrepunag irffry gur
perj jub anivtngr vg naq gubfr ba obneq bs vg jvyy svaq gurve cebgrpgvba va
gur synt juvpu vf bire gurz. Ab Nzrevpna fuvc pna or nyybjrq gb or ivfvgrq
be frnepurq sbe gur checbfr bs nfpregnvavat gur punenpgre bs vaqvivqhnyf ba
obneq, abe pna gurer or nyybjrq nal jngpu ol gur irffryf bs nal sbervta
angvba bire Nzrevpna irffryf ba gur pbnfg bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf be gur frnf
nqwnprag gurergb. Vg jvyy or frra ol gur ynfg pbzzhavpngvba sebz gur
Oevgvfu punetr q'nssnverf gb gur Qrcnegzrag bs Fgngr gung ur vf nhgubevmrq
gb nffher gur Frpergnel bs Fgngr gung rirel pner jvyy or gnxra gung va
rkrphgvat gur ceriragvir zrnfherf ntnvafg gur rkcrqvgvbaf juvpu gur Havgrq
Fgngrf Tbireazrag vgfrys unf qrabhaprq nf abg orvat ragvgyrq gb gur
cebgrpgvba bs nal tbireazrag ab vagresrerapr funyy gnxr cynpr jvgu gur
ynjshy pbzzrepr bs nal angvba.

Va nqqvgvba gb gur pbeerfcbaqrapr ba guvf fhowrpg urerjvgu fhozvggrq,
bssvpvny vasbezngvba unf orra erprvirq ng gur Qrcnegzrag bs Fgngr bs
nffhenaprf ol gur Serapu Tbireazrag gung va gur beqref tvira gb gur Serapu
aniny sbeprf gurl jrer rkcerffyl vafgehpgrq, va nal bcrengvbaf gurl zvtug
ratntr va, gb erfcrpg gur synt bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf jurerire vg zvtug
nccrne, naq gb pbzzvg ab npg bs ubfgvyvgl hcba nal irffry be neznzrag haqre
vgf cebgrpgvba.

Zvavfgref naq pbafhyf bs sbervta angvbaf ner gur zrnaf naq ntragf bs
pbzzhavpngvba orgjrra hf naq gubfr angvbaf, naq vg vf bs gur hgzbfg
vzcbegnapr gung juvyr erfvqvat va gur pbhagel gurl fubhyq srry n cresrpg
frphevgl fb ybat nf gurl snvgushyyl qvfpunetr gurve erfcrpgvir qhgvrf naq
ner thvygl bs ab ivbyngvba bs bhe ynjf. Guvf vf gur nqzvggrq ynj bs angvbaf
naq ab pbhagel unf n qrrcre vagrerfg va znvagnvavat vg guna gur Havgrq
Fgngrf. Bhe pbzzrepr fcernqf bire rirel frn naq ivfvgf rirel pyvzr, naq bhe
zvavfgref naq pbafhyf ner nccbvagrq gb cebgrpg gur vagrerfgf bs gung
pbzzrepr nf jryy nf gb thneq gur crnpr bs gur pbhagel naq znvagnva gur
ubabe bs vgf synt. Ohg ubj pna gurl qvfpunetr gurfr qhgvrf hayrff gurl or
gurzfryirf cebgrpgrq? Naq vs cebgrpgrq vg zhfg or ol gur ynjf bs gur
pbhagel va juvpu gurl erfvqr. Naq jung vf qhr gb bhe bja choyvp
shapgvbanevrf erfvqvat va sbervta angvbaf vf rknpgyl gur zrnfher bs jung vf
qhr gb gur shapgvbanevrf bs bgure tbireazragf erfvqvat urer. Nf va jne gur
orneref bs syntf bs gehpr ner fnperq, be ryfr jnef jbhyq or vagrezvanoyr,
fb va crnpr nzonffnqbef, choyvp zvavfgref, naq pbafhyf, punetrq jvgu
sevraqyl angvbany vagrepbhefr, ner bowrpgf bs rfcrpvny erfcrpg naq
cebgrpgvba, rnpu nppbeqvat gb gur evtugf orybatvat gb uvf enax naq fgngvba.
Va ivrj bs gurfr vzcbegnag cevapvcyrf, vg vf jvgu qrrc zbegvsvpngvba naq
erterg V naabhapr gb lbh gung qhevat gur rkpvgrzrag tebjvat bhg bs gur
rkrphgvbaf ng Uninan gur bssvpr bs Ure Pngubyvp Znwrfgl'f pbafhy ng Arj
Beyrnaf jnf nffnvyrq ol n zbo, uvf cebcregl qrfgeblrq, gur Fcnavfu synt
sbhaq va gur bssvpr pneevrq bss naq gbea va cvrprf, naq ur uvzfrys vaqhprq
gb syrr sbe uvf crefbany fnsrgl, juvpu ur fhccbfrq gb or va qnatre. Ba
erprvivat vagryyvtrapr bs gurfr riragf V sbegujvgu qverpgrq gur nggbearl bs
gur Havgrq Fgngrf erfvqvat ng Arj Beyrnaf gb vadhver vagb gur snpgf naq gur
rkgrag bs gur crphavnel ybff fhfgnvarq ol gur pbafhy, jvgu gur vagragvba bs
ynlvat gurz orsber lbh, gung lbh zvtug znxr cebivfvba sbe fhpu vaqrzavgl gb
uvz nf n whfg ertneq sbe gur ubabe bs gur angvba naq gur erfcrpg juvpu vf
qhr gb n sevraqyl cbjre zvtug, va lbhe whqtzrag, frrz gb erdhver. Gur
pbeerfcbaqrapr hcba guvf fhowrpg orgjrra gur Frpergnel bs Fgngr naq Ure
Pngubyvp Znwrfgl'f zvavfgre cyravcbgragvnel vf urerjvgu genafzvggrq.

Gur bppheerapr ng Arj Beyrnaf unf yrq zr gb tvir zl nggragvba gb gur fgngr
bs bhe ynjf va ertneq gb sbervta nzonffnqbef, zvavfgref, naq pbafhyf. V
guvax gur yrtvfyngvba bs gur pbhagel vf qrsvpvrag va abg cebivqvat
fhssvpvragyl rvgure sbe gur cebgrpgvba be gur chavfuzrag bs pbafhyf. V
gurersber erpbzzraq gur fhowrpg gb gur pbafvqrengvba bs Pbaterff.

Lbhe nggragvba vf ntnva vaivgrq gb gur dhrfgvba bs erpvcebpny genqr orgjrra
gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq Pnanqn naq bgure Oevgvfu cbffrffvbaf arne bhe
sebagvre. Biregherf sbe n pbairagvba hcba guvf fhowrpg unir orra erprvirq
sebz Ure Oevgnaavp Znwrfgl'f zvavfgre cyravcbgragvnel, ohg vg frrzf gb or
va znal erfcrpgf cersrenoyr gung gur znggre fubhyq or erthyngrq ol
erpvcebpny yrtvfyngvba. Qbphzragf ner ynvq orsber lbh fubjvat gur grezf
juvpu gur Oevgvfu Tbireazrag vf jvyyvat gb bssre naq gur zrnfherf juvpu vg
znl nqbcg vs fbzr neenatrzrag hcba guvf fhowrpg funyy abg or znqr.

Sebz gur nppbzcnalvat pbcl bs n abgr sebz gur Oevgvfu yrtngvba ng
Jnfuvatgba naq gur ercyl bs gur Qrcnegzrag bs Fgngr gurergb vg jvyy nccrne
gung Ure Oevgnaavp Znwrfgl'f Tbireazrag vf qrfvebhf gung n cneg bs gur
obhaqnel yvar orgjrra Bertba naq gur Oevgvfu cbffrffvbaf fubhyq or
nhgubevgngviryl znexrq bhg, naq gung na vagragvba jnf rkcerffrq gb nccyl gb
Pbaterff sbe na nccebcevngvba gb qrsenl gur rkcrafr gurerbs ba gur cneg bs
gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Lbhe nggragvba gb guvf fhowrpg vf nppbeqvatyl vaivgrq
naq n cebcre nccebcevngvba erpbzzraqrq. N pbairagvba sbe gur nqwhfgzrag bs
pynvzf bs pvgvmraf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf ntnvafg Cbeghtny unf orra pbapyhqrq
naq gur engvsvpngvbaf unir orra rkpunatrq. Gur svefg vafgnyyzrag bs gur
nzbhag gb or cnvq ol Cbeghtny sryy qhr ba gur 30gu bs Frcgrzore ynfg naq
unf orra cnvq. Gur Cerfvqrag bs gur Serapu Erchoyvp, nppbeqvat gb gur
cebivfvbaf bs gur pbairagvba, unf orra fryrpgrq nf neovgre va gur pnfr bs
gur Trareny Nezfgebat, naq unf fvtavsvrq gung ur npprcgf gur gehfg naq gur
uvtu fngvfsnpgvba ur srryf va npgvat nf gur pbzzba sevraq bs gjb angvbaf
jvgu juvpu Senapr vf havgrq ol fragvzragf bs fvaprer naq ynfgvat nzvgl.

Gur Ghexvfu Tbireazrag unf rkcerffrq vgf gunaxf sbe gur xvaq erprcgvba
tvira gb gur Fhygna'f ntrag, Nzva Orl, ba gur bppnfvba bs uvf erprag ivfvg
gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Ba gur 28gu bs Sroehnel ynfg n qvfcngpu jnf nqqerffrq
ol gur Frpergnel bs Fgngr gb Ze. Znefu, gur Nzrevpna zvavfgre ng
Pbafgnagvabcyr, vafgehpgvat uvz gb nfx bs gur Ghexvfu Tbireazrag crezvffvba
sbe gur Uhatnevnaf gura vzcevfbarq jvguva gur qbzvavbaf bs gur Fhoyvzr
Cbegr gb erzbir gb guvf pbhagel. Ba gur 3q bs Znepu ynfg obgu Ubhfrf bs
Pbaterff cnffrq n erfbyhgvba erdhrfgvat gur Cerfvqrag gb nhgubevmr gur
rzcyblzrag bs n choyvp irffry gb pbairl gb guvf pbhagel Ybhvf Xbffhgu naq
uvf nffbpvngrf va pncgvivgl. Gur vafgehpgvba nobir ersreerq gb jnf pbzcyvrq
jvgu, naq gur Ghexvfu Tbireazrag univat eryrnfrq Tbireabe Xbffhgu naq uvf
pbzcnavbaf sebz cevfba, ba gur 10gu bs Frcgrzore ynfg gurl rzonexrq ba
obneq bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf fgrnz sevtngr Zvffvffvccv, juvpu jnf fryrpgrq gb
pneel vagb rssrpg gur erfbyhgvba bs Pbaterff. Tbireabe Xbffhgu yrsg gur
Zvffvffvccv ng Tvoenygne sbe gur checbfr bs znxvat n ivfvg gb Ratynaq, naq
znl fubegyl or rkcrpgrq va Arj Lbex. Ol pbzzhavpngvbaf gb gur Qrcnegzrag bs
Fgngr ur unf rkcerffrq uvf tengrshy npxabjyrqtzragf sbe gur vagrecbfvgvba
bs guvf Tbireazrag va orunys bs uvzfrys naq uvf nffbpvngrf. Guvf pbhagel
unf orra whfgyl ertneqrq nf n fnsr nflyhz sbe gubfr jubz cbyvgvpny riragf
unir rkvyrq sebz gurve bja ubzrf va Rhebcr. naq vg vf erpbzzraqrq gb
Pbaterff gb pbafvqre va jung znaare Tbireabe Xbffhgu naq uvf pbzcnavbaf,
oebhtug uvgure ol vgf nhgubevgl, funyy or erprvirq naq gerngrq.

Vg vf rnearfgyl gb or ubcrq gung gur qvssreraprf juvpu unir sbe fbzr gvzr
cnfg orra craqvat orgjrra gur Tbireazrag bs gur Serapu Erchoyvp naq gung bs
gur Fnaqjvpu Vfynaqf znl or crnprnoyl naq qhenoyl nqwhfgrq fb nf gb frpher
gur vaqrcraqrapr bs gubfr vfynaqf. Ybat orsber gur riragf juvpu unir bs
yngr vzcnegrq fb zhpu vzcbegnapr gb gur cbffrffvbaf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf ba
gur Cnpvsvp jr npxabjyrqtrq gur vaqrcraqrapr bs gur Unjnvvna Tbireazrag.
Guvf Tbireazrag jnf svefg va gnxvat gung fgrc, naq frireny bs gur yrnqvat
cbjref bs Rhebcr vzzrqvngryl sbyybjrq. Jr jrer vasyhraprq va guvf zrnfher
ol gur rkvfgvat naq cebfcrpgvir vzcbegnapr bs gur vfynaqf nf n cynpr bs
ershtr naq erserfuzrag sbe bhe irffryf ratntrq va gur junyr svfurel, naq ol
gur pbafvqrengvba gung gurl yvr va gur pbhefr bs gur terng genqr juvpu zhfg
ng ab qvfgnag qnl or pneevrq ba orgjrra gur jrfgrea pbnfg bs Abegu Nzrevpn
naq rnfgrea Nfvn.

Jr jrer nyfb vasyhraprq ol n qrfver gung gubfr vfynaqf fubhyq abg cnff
haqre gur pbageby bs nal bgure terng znevgvzr fgngr, ohg fubhyq erznva va
na vaqrcraqrag pbaqvgvba, naq fb or npprffvoyr naq hfrshy gb gur pbzzrepr
bs nyy angvbaf. V arrq abg fnl gung gur vzcbegnapr bs gurfr pbafvqrengvbaf
unf orra terngyl raunaprq ol gur fhqqra naq infg qrirybczrag juvpu gur
vagrerfgf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf unir nggnvarq va Pnyvsbeavn naq Bertba, naq
gur cbyvpl urergbsber nqbcgrq va ertneq gb gubfr vfynaqf jvyy or fgrnqvyl
chefhrq.

Vg vf tengvslvat, abg bayl gb gubfr jub pbafvqre gur pbzzrepvny vagrerfgf
bs angvbaf, ohg nyfb gb nyy jub snibe gur cebterff bs xabjyrqtr naq gur
qvsshfvba bs eryvtvba, gb frr n pbzzhavgl rzretr sebz n fnintr fgngr naq
nggnva fhpu n qrterr bs pvivyvmngvba va gubfr qvfgnag frnf. Vg vf zhpu gb
or qrcyberq gung gur vagreany genadhvyyvgl bs gur Zrkvpna Erchoyvp fubhyq
ntnva or frevbhfyl qvfgheorq, sbe fvapr gur crnpr orgjrra gung Erchoyvp naq
gur Havgrq Fgngrf vg unq rawblrq fhpu pbzcnengvir ercbfr gung gur zbfg
snibenoyr nagvpvcngvbaf sbe gur shgher zvtug jvgu n qrterr bs pbasvqrapr
unir orra vaqhytrq. Gurfr, ubjrire, unir orra gujnegrq ol gur erprag
bhgoernx va gur Fgngr bs Gnznhyvcnf, ba gur evtug onax bs gur Evb Oenib.
Univat erprvirq vasbezngvba gung crefbaf sebz gur Havgrq Fgngrf unq gnxra
cneg va gur vafheerpgvba, naq ncceruraqvat gung gurve rknzcyr zvtug or
sbyybjrq ol bguref, V pnhfrq beqref gb or vffhrq sbe gur checbfr bs
ceriragvat nal ubfgvyr rkcrqvgvbaf ntnvafg Zrkvpb sebz orvat frg ba sbbg va
ivbyngvba bs gur ynjf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf. V yvxrjvfr vffhrq n
cebpynzngvba hcba gur fhowrpg, n pbcl bs juvpu vf urerjvgu ynvq orsber lbh.
Guvf nccrnerq gb or eraqrerq vzcrengvir ol gur boyvtngvbaf bs gerngvrf naq
gur trareny qhgvrf bs tbbq arvtuobeubbq.

Va zl ynfg naahny zrffntr V vasbezrq Pbaterff gung pvgvmraf bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf unq haqregnxra gur pbaarpgvba bs gur gjb bprnaf ol zrnaf bs n
envyebnq npebff gur Vfguzhf bs Gruhnagrcrp, haqre n tenag bs gur Zrkvpna
Tbireazrag gb n pvgvmra bs gung Erchoyvp, naq gung guvf ragrecevfr jbhyq
cebonoyl or cebfrphgrq jvgu raretl jurarire Zrkvpb fubhyq pbafrag gb fhpu
fgvchyngvbaf jvgu gur Tbireazrag bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf nf fubhyq vzcneg n
srryvat bs frphevgl gb gubfr jub fubhyq vairfg gurve cebcregl va gur
ragrecevfr. N pbairagvba orgjrra gur gjb Tbireazragf sbe gur nppbzcyvfuzrag
bs gung raq unf orra engvsvrq ol guvf Tbireazrag, naq bayl njnvgf gur
qrpvfvba bs gur Pbaterff naq gur Rkrphgvir bs gung Erchoyvp.

Fbzr harkcrpgrq qvssvphygvrf naq qrynlf unir nevfra va gur engvsvpngvba bs
gung pbairagvba ol Zrkvpb, ohg vg vf gb or cerfhzrq gung ure qrpvfvba jvyy
or tbirearq ol whfg naq rayvtugrarq ivrjf, nf jryy bs gur trareny
vzcbegnapr bs gur bowrpg nf bs ure bja vagrerfgf naq boyvtngvbaf.

Va artbgvngvat hcba guvf vzcbegnag fhowrpg guvf Tbireazrag unf unq va ivrj
bar, naq bayl bar, bowrpg. Gung bowrpg unf orra, naq vf, gur pbafgehpgvba
be nggnvazrag bs n cnffntr sebz bprna gb bprna, gur fubegrfg naq gur orfg
sbe geniryref naq zrepunaqvfr, naq rdhnyyl bcra gb nyy gur jbeyq. Vg unf
fbhtug gb bognva ab greevgbevny npdhvfvgvba, abe nal nqinagntrf crphyvne gb
vgfrys; naq vg jbhyq frr jvgu gur terngrfg erterg gung Zrkvpb fubhyq bccbfr
nal bofgnpyr gb gur nppbzcyvfuzrag bs na ragrecevfr juvpu cebzvfrf fb zhpu
pbairavrapr gb gur jubyr pbzzrepvny jbeyq naq fhpu rzvarag nqinagntrf gb
Zrkvpb urefrys. Vzcerffrq jvgu gurfr fragvzragf naq gurfr pbaivpgvbaf, gur
Tbireazrag jvyy pbagvahr gb rkreg nyy cebcre rssbegf gb oevat nobhg gur
arprffnel neenatrzrag jvgu gur Erchoyvp bs Zrkvpb sbe gur fcrrql pbzcyrgvba
bs gur jbex. Sbe fbzr zbaguf cnfg gur Erchoyvp bs Avpnenthn unf orra gur
gurngre bs bar bs gubfr pvivy pbaihyfvbaf sebz juvpu gur pnhfr bs serr
vafgvghgvbaf naq gur trareny cebfcrevgl naq fbpvny cebterff bs gur Fgngrf
bs Prageny Nzrevpn unir fb bsgra naq fb frireryl fhssrerq. Hagvy dhvrg
funyy unir orra erfgberq naq n tbireazrag nccneragyl fgnoyr funyy unir orra
betnavmrq, ab nqinapr pna cehqragyl or znqr va qvfcbfvat bs gur dhrfgvbaf
craqvat orgjrra gur gjb pbhagevrf.

V nz unccl gb naabhapr gung na vagrebprnavp pbzzhavpngvba sebz gur zbhgu bs
gur Fg. Wbua gb gur Cnpvsvp unf orra fb sne nppbzcyvfurq nf gung cnffratref
unir npghnyyl genirefrq vg naq zrepunaqvfr unf orra genafcbegrq bire vg,
naq jura gur pnany funyy unir orra pbzcyrgrq nppbeqvat gb gur bevtvany cyna
gur zrnaf bs pbzzhavpngvba jvyy or shegure vzcebirq. Vg vf haqrefgbbq gung
n pbafvqrenoyr cneg bs gur envyebnq npebff gur Vfguzhf bs Cnanzn unf orra
pbzcyrgrq, naq gung gur znvy naq cnffratref jvyy va shgher or pbairlrq
gurerba. Juvpurire bs gur frireny ebhgrf orgjrra gur gjb bprnaf znl
hygvzngryl cebir zbfg ryvtvoyr sbe geniryref gb naq sebz gur qvssrerag
Fgngrf ba gur Ngynagvp naq Thys bs Zrkvpb naq bhe pbnfg ba gur Cnpvsvp,
gurer vf yvggyr ernfba gb qbhog gung nyy bs gurz jvyy or hfrshy gb gur
choyvp, naq jvyy yvorenyyl erjneq gung vaqvivqhny ragrecevfr ol juvpu nybar
gurl unir orra be ner rkcrpgrq gb or pneevrq vagb rssrpg. Crnpr unf orra
pbapyhqrq orgjrra gur pbagraqvat cnegvrf va gur vfynaq bs Fg. Qbzvatb, naq,
vg vf ubcrq, hcba n qhenoyr onfvf. Fhpu vf gur rkgrag bs bhe pbzzrepvny
eryngvbaf jvgu gung vfynaq gung gur Havgrq Fgngrf pna abg snvy gb srry n
fgebat vagrerfg va vgf genadhvyyvgl. Gur bssvpr bs pbzzvffvbare gb Puvan
erznvaf hasvyyrq. Frireny crefbaf unir orra nccbvagrq, naq gur cynpr unf
orra bssrerq gb bguref, nyy bs jubz unir qrpyvarq vgf npprcgnapr ba gur
tebhaq bs gur vanqrdhnpl bs gur pbzcrafngvba. Gur naahny nyybjnapr ol ynj
vf $6,000, naq gurer vf ab cebivfvba sbe nal bhgsvg. V rnearfgyl erpbzzraq
gur pbafvqrengvba bs guvf fhowrpg gb Pbaterff. Bhe pbzzrepr jvgu Puvan vf
uvtuyl vzcbegnag, naq vf orpbzvat zber naq zber fb va pbafrdhrapr bs gur
vapernfvat vagrepbhefr orgjrra bhe cbegf ba gur Cnpvsvp Pbnfg naq rnfgrea
Nfvn. Puvan vf haqrefgbbq gb or n pbhagel va juvpu yvivat vf irel
rkcrafvir, naq V xabj bs ab ernfba jul gur Nzrevpna pbzzvffvbare frag
guvgure fubhyq abg or cynprq, va ertneq gb pbzcrafngvba, ba na rdhny
sbbgvat jvgu zvavfgref jub ercerfrag guvf pbhagel ng gur Pbhegf bs Rhebcr.

Ol ersrerapr gb gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs gur Gernfhel vg jvyy or frra
gung gur nttertngr erprvcgf sbe gur ynfg svfpny lrne nzbhagrq gb
$52,312,979.87, juvpu, jvgu gur onynapr va gur Gernfhel ba gur 1fg Whyl,
1850, tnir nf gur ninvynoyr zrnaf sbe gur lrne gur fhz bs $58,917,524.36.

Gur gbgny rkcraqvgherf sbe gur fnzr crevbq jrer $48,005,878.68. Gur gbgny
vzcbegf sbe gur lrne raqvat Whar 30, 1851, jrer $215,725,995, bs juvpu
gurer jrer va fcrpvr $4,967,901. Gur rkcbegf sbe gur fnzr crevbq jrer
$217,517,130, bs juvpu gurer jrer bs qbzrfgvp cebqhpgf $178,546,555;
sbervta tbbqf errkcbegrq, $9,738,695; fcrpvr, $29,231,880.

Fvapr gur 1fg bs Qrprzore ynfg gur cnlzragf va pnfu ba nppbhag bs gur
choyvp qrog, rkpyhfvir bs vagrerfg, unir nzbhagrq gb $7,501,456.56, juvpu,
ubjrire, vapyhqrf gur fhz bs $3,242,400, cnvq haqre gur gjrysgu negvpyr bs
gur gerngl jvgu Zrkvpb, naq gur shegure fhz bs $2,591,213.45, orvat gur
nzbhag bs njneqf gb Nzrevpna pvgvmraf haqre gur yngr gerngl jvgu Zrkvpb,
sbe juvpu gur vffhr bs fgbpx jnf nhgubevmrq, ohg juvpu jnf cnvq va pnfu
sebz gur Gernfhel.

Gur choyvp qrog ba gur 20gu hygvzb, rkpyhfvir bs gur fgbpx nhgubevmrq gb or
vffhrq gb Grknf ol gur npg bs 9gu Frcgrzore, 1850, jnf $62,560,395.26.

Gur erprvcgf sbe gur arkg svfpny lrne ner rfgvzngrq ng $51,800,000, juvpu,
jvgu gur cebonoyr hanccebcevngrq onynapr va gur Gernfhel ba gur 30gu Whar
arkg, jvyy tvir nf gur cebonoyr ninvynoyr zrnaf sbe gung lrne gur fhz bs
$63,258,743.09.

Vg unf orra qrrzrq cebcre, va ivrj bs gur ynetr rkcraqvgherf pbafrdhrag
hcba gur npdhvfvgvba bs greevgbel sebz Zrkvpb, gung gur rfgvzngrf sbe gur
arkg svfpny lrne fubhyq or ynvq orsber Pbaterff va fhpu znaare nf gb
qvfgvathvfu gur rkcraqvgherf fb erdhverq sebz gur bgurejvfr beqvanel
qrznaqf hcba gur Gernfhel.

Gur gbgny rkcraqvgherf sbe gur arkg svfpny lrne ner rfgvzngrq ng
$42,892,299.19, bs juvpu gurer vf erdhverq sbe gur beqvanel checbfrf bs gur
Tbireazrag, bgure guna gubfr pbafrdhrag hcba gur npdhvfvgvba bs bhe arj
greevgbevrf, naq qrqhpgvat gur cnlzragf ba nppbhag bs gur choyvp qrog, gur
fhz bs $33,343,198.08, naq sbe gur checbfrf pbaarpgrq, qverpgyl be
vaqverpgyl, jvgu gubfr greevgbevrf naq va gur shysvyyzrag bs gur
boyvtngvbaf bs gur Tbireazrag pbagenpgrq va pbafrdhrapr bs gurve
npdhvfvgvba gur fhz bs $9,549,101.11.

Vs gur ivrjf bs gur Frpergnel bs gur Gernfhel va ersrerapr gb gur
rkcraqvgherf erdhverq sbe gurfr greevgbevrf funyy or zrg ol pbeerfcbaqvat
npgvba ba gur cneg bs Pbaterff, naq nccebcevngvbaf znqr va nppbeqnapr
gurerjvgu, gurer jvyy or na rfgvzngrq hanccebcevngrq onynapr va gur
Gernfhel ba gur 30gu Whar, 1853, bs $20,366,443.90 jurerjvgu gb zrrg gung
cbegvba bs gur choyvp qrog qhr ba gur 1fg bs Whyl sbyybjvat, nzbhagvat gb
$6,237,931.35, nf jryy nf nal nccebcevngvbaf juvpu znl or znqr orlbaq gur
rfgvzngrf.

Va guhf ersreevat gb gur rfgvzngrq rkcraqvgherf ba nppbhag bs bhe arjyl
npdhverq greevgbevrf, V znl rkcerff gur ubcr gung Pbaterff jvyy pbaphe jvgu
zr va gur qrfver gung n yvoreny pbhefr bs cbyvpl znl or chefhrq gbjneq
gurz, naq gung rirel boyvtngvba, rkcerff be vzcyvrq, ragrerq vagb va
pbafrdhrapr bs gurve npdhvfvgvba funyy or shysvyyrq ol gur zbfg yvoreny
nccebcevngvbaf sbe gung checbfr.

Gur inyhrf bs bhe qbzrfgvp rkcbegf sbe gur ynfg svfpny lrne, nf pbzcnerq
jvgu gubfr bs gur cerivbhf lrne, rkuvovg na vapernfr bs $43,646,322. Ng
svefg ivrj guvf pbaqvgvba bs bhe genqr jvgu sbervta angvbaf jbhyq frrz gb
cerfrag gur zbfg synggrevat ubcrf bs vgf shgher cebfcrevgl. Na rknzvangvba
bs gur qrgnvyf bs bhe rkcbegf, ubjrire, jvyy fubj gung gur vapernfrq inyhr
bs bhe rkcbegf sbe gur ynfg svfpny lrne vf gb or sbhaq va gur uvtu cevpr bs
pbggba juvpu cerinvyrq qhevat gur svefg unys bs gung lrne, juvpu cevpr unf
fvapr qrpyvarq nobhg bar-unys.

Gur inyhr bs bhe rkcbegf bs oernqfghssf naq cebivfvbaf, juvpu vg jnf
fhccbfrq gur vapragvir bs n ybj gnevss naq ynetr vzcbegngvbaf sebz noebnq
jbhyq unir terngyl nhtzragrq, unf snyyra sebz $68,701,921 va 1847 gb
$26,051,373 va 1850 naq gb $21,948,653 va 1851, jvgu n fgebat cebonovyvgl,
nzbhagvat nyzbfg gb n pregnvagl, bs n fgvyy shegure erqhpgvba va gur
pheerag lrne.

Gur nttertngr inyhrf bs evpr rkcbegrq qhevat gur ynfg svfpny lrne, nf
pbzcnerq jvgu gur cerivbhf lrne, nyfb rkuvovg n qrpernfr, nzbhagvat gb
$460,917, juvpu, jvgu n qrpyvar va gur inyhrf bs gur rkcbegf bs gbonppb sbe
gur fnzr crevbq, znxr na nttertngr qrpernfr va gurfr gjb negvpyrf bs
$1,156,751.

Gur cbyvpl juvpu qvpgngrq n ybj engr bs qhgvrf ba sbervta zrepunaqvfr, vg
jnf gubhtug ol gubfr jub cebzbgrq naq rfgnoyvfurq vg, jbhyq graq gb orarsvg
gur snezvat cbchyngvba bs guvf pbhagel ol vapernfvat gur qrznaq naq envfvat
gur cevpr bs ntevphygheny cebqhpgf va sbervta znexrgf.

Gur sbertbvat snpgf, ubjrire, frrz gb fubj vapbagrfgnoyl gung ab fhpu
erfhyg unf sbyybjrq gur nqbcgvba bs guvf cbyvpl. Ba gur pbagenel,
abgjvgufgnaqvat gur ercrny bs gur erfgevpgvir pbea ynjf va Ratynaq, gur
sbervta qrznaq sbe gur cebqhpgf bs gur Nzrevpna snezre unf fgrnqvyl
qrpyvarq, fvapr gur fubeg pebcf naq pbafrdhrag snzvar va n cbegvba bs
Rhebcr unir orra unccvyl ercynprq ol shyy pebcf naq pbzcnengvir nohaqnapr
bs sbbq.

Vg jvyy or frra ol erpheevat gb gur pbzzrepvny fgngvfgvpf sbe gur cnfg lrne
gung gur inyhr bs bhe qbzrfgvp rkcbegf unf orra vapernfrq va gur fvatyr
vgrz bs enj pbggba ol $40,000,000 bire gur inyhr bs gung rkcbeg sbe gur
lrne cerprqvat. Guvf vf abg qhr gb nal vapernfrq trareny qrznaq sbe gung
negvpyr, ohg gb gur fubeg pebc bs gur cerprqvat lrne, juvpu perngrq na
vapernfrq qrznaq naq na nhtzragrq cevpr sbe gur pebc bs ynfg lrne. Fubhyq
gur pbggba pebc abj tbvat sbejneq gb znexrg or bayl rdhny va dhnagvgl gb
gung bs gur lrne cerprqvat naq or fbyq ng gur cerfrag cevprf, gura gurer
jbhyq or n snyyvat bss va gur inyhr bs bhe rkcbegf sbe gur cerfrag svfpny
lrne bs ng yrnfg $40,000,000 pbzcnerq jvgu gur nzbhag rkcbegrq sbe gur lrne
raqvat 30gu Whar, 1851.

Gur cebqhpgvba bs tbyq va Pnyvsbeavn sbe gur cnfg lrne frrzf gb cebzvfr n
ynetr fhccyl bs gung zrgny sebz gung dhnegre sbe fbzr gvzr gb pbzr. Guvf
ynetr naahny vapernfr bs gur pheerapl bs gur jbeyq zhfg or nggraqrq jvgu
vgf hfhny erfhygf. Gurfr unir orra nyernql cnegvnyyl qvfpybfrq va gur
raunaprzrag bs cevprf naq n evfvat fcvevg bs fcrphyngvba naq nqiragher,
graqvat gb biregenqvat, nf jryy ng ubzr nf noebnq. Hayrff fbzr fnyhgnel
purpx funyy or tvira gb gurfr graqrapvrf vg vf gb or srnerq gung
vzcbegngvbaf bs sbervta tbbqf orlbaq n urnygul qrznaq va guvf pbhagel jvyy
yrnq gb n fhqqra qenva bs gur cerpvbhf zrgnyf sebz hf, oevatvat jvgu vg, nf
vg unf qbar va sbezre gvzrf, gur zbfg qvfnfgebhf pbafrdhraprf gb gur
ohfvarff naq pncvgny bs gur Nzrevpna crbcyr.

Gur rkcbegf bs fcrpvr gb yvdhvqngr bhe sbervta qrog qhevat gur cnfg svfpny
lrne unir orra $24,963,979 bire gur nzbhag bs fcrpvr vzcbegrq. Gur rkcbegf
bs fcrpvr qhevat gur svefg dhnegre bs gur cerfrag svfpny lrne unir orra
$14,651,827. Fubhyq fcrpvr pbagvahr gb or rkcbegrq ng guvf engr sbe gur
erznvavat guerr dhnegref bs guvf lrne, vg jvyy qenva sebz bhe zrgnyyvp
pheerapl qhevat gur lrne raqvat 30gu Whar, 1852, gur rabezbhf nzbhag bs
$58,607,308.

Va gur cerfrag cebfcrebhf pbaqvgvba bs gur angvbany svanaprf vg jvyy orpbzr
gur qhgl bs Pbaterff gb pbafvqre gur orfg zbqr bs cnlvat bss gur choyvp
qrog. Vs gur cerfrag naq nagvpvcngrq fhecyhf va gur Gernfhel fubhyq abg or
nofbeorq ol nccebcevngvbaf bs na rkgenbeqvanel punenpgre, guvf fhecyhf
fubhyq or rzcyblrq va fhpu jnl naq haqre fhpu erfgevpgvbaf nf Pbaterff znl
ranpg va rkgvathvfuvat gur bhgfgnaqvat qrog bs gur angvba.

Ol ersrerapr gb gur npg bs Pbaterff nccebirq 9gu Frcgrzore, 1850, vg jvyy
or frra gung, va pbafvqrengvba bs pregnva pbaprffvbaf ol gur Fgngr bs
Grknf, vg vf cebivqrq gung--

Gur Havgrq Fgngrf funyy cnl gb gur Fgngr bs Grknf gur fhz bs $10,000,000 va
n fgbpx ornevat 5 cre prag vagrerfg naq erqrrznoyr ng gur raq bs sbhegrra
lrnef, gur vagrerfg cnlnoyr unys-lrneyl ng gur Gernfhel bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf.

Va gur fnzr frpgvba bs gur ynj vg vf shegure cebivqrq--

Gung ab zber guna svir zvyyvbaf bs fnvq fgbpx funyy or vffhrq hagvy gur
perqvgbef bs gur Fgngr ubyqvat obaqf naq bgure pregvsvpngrf bs fgbpx bs
Grknf, sbe juvpu qhgvrf ba vzcbegf jrer fcrpvnyyl cyrqtrq, funyy svefg svyr
ng gur Gernfhel bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf eryrnfrf bs nyy pynvzf ntnvafg gur
Havgrq Fgngrf sbe be ba nppbhag bs fnvq obaqf be pregvsvpngrf, va fhpu sbez
nf funyy or cerfpevorq ol gur Frpergnel bs gur Gernfhel naq nccebirq ol gur
Cerfvqrag bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf.

Gur sbez bs eryrnfr guhf cebivqrq sbe unf orra cerfpevorq ol gur Frpergnel
bs gur Gernfhel naq nccebirq. Vg unf orra choyvfurq va nyy gur yrnqvat
arjfcncref va gur pbzzrepvny pvgvrf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, naq nyy crefbaf
ubyqvat pynvzf bs gur xvaq fcrpvsvrq va gur sbertbvat cebivfb jrer erdhverq
gb svyr gurve eryrnfrf (va gur sbez guhf cerfpevorq) va gur Gernfhel bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf ba be orsber gur 1fg qnl bs Bpgbore, 1851. Nygubhtu guvf
choyvpngvba unf orra pbagvahrq sebz gur 25gu qnl bs Znepu, 1851, lrg hc gb
gur 1fg bs Bpgbore ynfg pbzcnengviryl srj eryrnfrf unq orra svyrq ol gur
perqvgbef bs Grknf.

Gur nhgubevgvrf bs gur Fgngr bs Grknf, ng gur erdhrfg bs gur Frpergnel bs
gur Gernfhel, unir sheavfurq n fpurqhyr bs gur choyvp qrog bs gung Fgngr
perngrq cevbe gb ure nqzvffvba vagb gur Havba, jvgu n pbcl bs gur ynjf
haqre juvpu rnpu pynff jnf pbagenpgrq. V unir, sebz gur qbphzragf sheavfurq
ol gur Fgngr bs Grknf, qrgrezvarq gur pynffrf bs pynvzf juvpu va zl
whqtzrag snyy jvguva gur cebivfvbaf bs gur npg bs Pbaterff bs gur 9gu bs
Frcgrzore, 1850.

Ba orvat bssvpvnyyl vasbezrq bs gur npprcgnapr ol Grknf bs gur cebcbfvgvbaf
pbagnvarq va gur npg ersreerq gb V pnhfrq gur fgbpx gb or cercnerq, naq gur
svir zvyyvbaf juvpu ner gb or vffhrq hapbaqvgvbanyyl, ornevat na vagrerfg
bs 5 cre prag sebz gur 1fg qnl bs Wnahnel, 1851, unir orra sbe fbzr gvzr
ernql gb or qryvirerq gb gur Fgngr bs Grknf. Gur nhgubevgvrf bs Grknf hc gb
gur cerfrag gvzr unir abg nhgubevmrq nalbar gb erprvir guvf fgbpx, naq vg
erznvaf va gur Gernfhel Qrcnegzrag fhowrpg gb gur beqre bs Grknf. Gur
eryrnfrf erdhverq ol ynj gb or qrcbfvgrq va gur Gernfhel abg univat orra
svyrq gurer, gur erznvavat svir zvyyvbaf unir abg orra vffhrq. Guvf ynfg
nzbhag bs gur fgbpx jvyy or jvguuryq sebz Grknf hagvy gur pbaqvgvbaf hcba
juvpu vg vf gb or qryvirerq funyy or pbzcyvrq jvgu ol gur perqvgbef bs gung
Fgngr, hayrff Pbaterff funyy bgurejvfr qverpg ol n zbqvsvpngvba bs gur
ynj.

Va zl ynfg naahny zrffntr, gb juvpu V erfcrpgshyyl ersre, V fgngrq oevrsyl
gur ernfbaf juvpu vaqhprq zr gb erpbzzraq n zbqvsvpngvba bs gur cerfrag
gnevss ol pbairegvat gur nq inyberz vagb n fcrpvsvp qhgl jurerire gur
negvpyr vzcbegrq jnf bs fhpu n punenpgre nf gb crezvg vg, naq gung fhpu n
qvfpevzvangvba fubhyq or znqr va snibe bs gur vaqhfgevny chefhvgf bs bhe
bja pbhagel nf gb rapbhentr ubzr cebqhpgvba jvgubhg rkpyhqvat sbervta
pbzcrgvgvba.

Gur ahzrebhf senhqf juvpu pbagvahr gb or cenpgvprq hcba gur erirahr ol
snyfr vaibvprf naq haqreinyhngvbaf pbafgvghgr na hanafjrenoyr ernfba sbe
nqbcgvat fcrpvsvp vafgrnq bs nq inyberz qhgvrf va nyy pnfrf jurer gur
angher bs gur pbzzbqvgl qbrf abg sbeovq vg. N fgevxvat vyyhfgengvba bs
gurfr senhqf jvyy or rkuvovgrq va gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs gur
Gernfhel, fubjvat gur phfgbz-ubhfr inyhngvba bs negvpyrf vzcbegrq haqre n
sbezre ynj, fhowrpg gb fcrpvsvp qhgvrf, jura gurer jnf ab vaqhprzrag gb
haqreinyhngvba, naq gur phfgbz-ubhfr inyhngvbaf bs gur fnzr negvpyrf haqre
gur cerfrag flfgrz bs nq inyberz qhgvrf, fb terngyl erqhprq nf gb yrnir ab
qbhog bs gur rkvfgrapr bs gur zbfg syntenag nohfrf haqre gur rkvfgvat ynjf.
Guvf cenpgvpny rinfvba bs gur cerfrag ynj, pbzovarq jvgu gur ynathvfuvat
pbaqvgvba bs fbzr bs gur terng vagrerfgf bs gur pbhagel, pnhfrq ol bire
vzcbegngvbaf naq pbafrdhrag qrcerffrq cevprf, naq jvgu gur snvyher va
bognvavat n sbervta znexrg sbe bhe vapernfvat fhecyhf bs oernqfghssf naq
cebivfvbaf, unf vaqhprq zr ntnva gb erpbzzraq n zbqvsvpngvba bs gur
rkvfgvat gnevss. Gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs gur Vagrevbe, juvpu
nppbzcnavrf guvf pbzzhavpngvba, jvyy cerfrag n pbaqrafrq fgngrzrag bs gur
bcrengvbaf bs gung vzcbegnag Qrcnegzrag bs gur Tbireazrag.

Vg jvyy or frra gung gur pnfu fnyrf bs gur choyvp ynaqf rkprrq gubfr bs gur
cerprqvat lrne, naq gung gurer vf ernfba gb nagvpvcngr n fgvyy shegure
vapernfr, abgjvgufgnaqvat gur ynetr qbangvbaf juvpu unir orra znqr gb znal
bs gur Fgngrf naq gur yvoreny tenagf gb vaqvivqhnyf nf n erjneq sbe
zvyvgnel freivprf. Guvf snpg sheavfurf irel tengvslvat rivqrapr bs gur
tebjvat jrnygu naq cebfcrevgl bs bhe pbhagel.

Fhvgnoyr zrnfherf unir orra nqbcgrq sbe pbzzrapvat gur fheirl bs gur choyvp
ynaqf va Pnyvsbeavn naq Bertba. Fheirlvat cnegvrf unir orra betnavmrq naq
fbzr cebterff unf orra znqr va rfgnoyvfuvat gur cevapvcny onfr naq zrevqvna
yvarf. Ohg shegure yrtvfyngvba naq nqqvgvbany nccebcevngvbaf jvyy or
arprffnel orsber gur cebcre fhoqvivfvbaf pna or znqr naq gur trareny ynaq
flfgrz rkgraqrq bire gubfr erzbgr cnegf bs bhe greevgbel.

Ba gur 3q bs Znepu ynfg na npg jnf cnffrq cebivqvat sbe gur nccbvagzrag bs
guerr pbzzvffvbaref gb frggyr cevingr ynaq pynvzf va Pnyvsbeavn. Guerr
crefbaf jrer vzzrqvngryl nccbvagrq, nyy bs jubz, ubjrire, qrpyvarq
npprcgvat gur bssvpr va pbafrdhrapr bs gur vanqrdhnpl bs gur pbzcrafngvba.
Bguref jrer cebzcgyl fryrpgrq, jub sbe gur fnzr ernfba nyfb qrpyvarq, naq
vg jnf abg hagvy yngr va gur frnfba gung gur freivprf bs fhvgnoyr crefbaf
pbhyq or frpherq. N znwbevgl bs gur pbzzvffvbaref pbairarq va guvf pvgl ba
gur 10gu bs Frcgrzore ynfg, jura qrgnvyrq vafgehpgvbaf jrer tvira gb gurz
va ertneq gb gurve qhgvrf. Gurve svefg zrrgvat sbe gur genafnpgvba bs
ohfvarff jvyy or uryq va Fna Senapvfpb ba gur 8gu qnl bs gur cerfrag
zbagu.

V unir gubhtug vg cebcre gb ersre gb gurfr snpgf, abg bayl gb rkcynva gur
pnhfrf bs gur qrynl va svyyvat gur pbzzvffvba, ohg gb pnyy lbhe nggragvba
gb gur cebcevrgl bs vapernfvat gur pbzcrafngvba bs gur pbzzvffvbaref. Gur
bssvpr vf bar bs terng ynobe naq erfcbafvovyvgl, naq gur pbzcrafngvba
fubhyq or fhpu nf gb pbzznaq zra bs n uvtu beqre bs gnyragf naq gur zbfg
hadhrfgvbanoyr vagrtevgl.

Gur cebcre qvfcbfny bs gur zvareny ynaqf bs Pnyvsbeavn vf n fhowrpg
fheebhaqrq ol terng qvssvphygvrf. Va zl ynfg naahny zrffntr V erpbzzraqrq
gur fheirl naq fnyr bs gurz va fznyy cnepryf haqre fhpu erfgevpgvbaf nf
jbhyq rssrpghnyyl thneq ntnvafg zbabcbyl naq fcrphyngvba; ohg hcba shegure
vasbezngvba, naq va qrsrerapr gb gur bcvavbaf bs crefbaf snzvyvne jvgu gur
fhowrpg, V nz vapyvarq gb punatr gung erpbzzraqngvba naq gb nqivfr gung
gurl or crezvggrq gb erznva nf ng cerfrag, n pbzzba svryq, bcra gb gur
ragrecevfr naq vaqhfgel bs nyy bhe pvgvmraf, hagvy shegure rkcrevrapr funyy
unir qrirybcrq gur orfg cbyvpl gb or hygvzngryl nqbcgrq va ertneq gb gurz.
Vg vf fnsre gb fhssre gur vapbairavraprf gung abj rkvfg sbe n fubeg crevbq
guna ol cerzngher yrtvfyngvba gb snfgra ba gur pbhagel n flfgrz sbhaqrq va
reebe, juvpu znl cynpr gur jubyr fhowrpg orlbaq gur shgher pbageby bs
Pbaterff.

Gur ntevphygheny ynaqf fubhyq, ubjrire, or fheirlrq naq oebhtug vagb znexrg
jvgu nf yvggyr qrynl nf cbffvoyr, gung gur gvgyrf znl orpbzr frggyrq naq
gur vaunovgnagf fgvzhyngrq gb znxr creznarag vzcebirzragf naq ragre ba gur
beqvanel chefhvgf bs yvsr. Gb rssrpg gurfr bowrpgf vg vf qrfvenoyr gung gur
arprffnel cebivfvba or znqr ol ynj sbe gur rfgnoyvfuzrag bs ynaq bssvprf va
Pnyvsbeavn naq Bertba naq sbe gur rssvpvrag cebfrphgvba bs gur fheirlf ng
na rneyl qnl.

Fbzr qvssvphygvrf unir bppheerq va betnavmvat gur Greevgbevny tbireazragf
bs Arj Zrkvpb naq Hgnu, naq jura zber npphengr vasbezngvba funyy or
bognvarq bs gur pnhfrf n shegure pbzzhavpngvba jvyy or znqr ba gung
fhowrpg.

Va zl ynfg naahny pbzzhavpngvba gb Pbaterff V erpbzzraqrq gur rfgnoyvfuzrag
bs na ntevphygheny ohernh, naq V gnxr guvf bppnfvba ntnva gb vaibxr lbhe
snibenoyr pbafvqrengvba bs gur fhowrpg.

Ntevphygher znl whfgyl or ertneqrq nf gur terng vagrerfg bs bhe crbcyr.
Sbhe-svsguf bs bhe npgvir cbchyngvba ner rzcyblrq va gur phygvingvba bs gur
fbvy, naq gur encvq rkcnafvba bs bhe frggyrzragf bire arj greevgbel vf
qnvyl nqqvat gb gur ahzore bs gubfr ratntrq va gung ibpngvba. Whfgvpr naq
fbhaq cbyvpl, gurersber, nyvxr erdhver gung gur Tbireazrag fubhyq hfr nyy
gur zrnaf nhgubevmrq ol gur Pbafgvghgvba gb cebzbgr gur vagrerfgf naq
jrysner bs gung vzcbegnag pynff bs bhe sryybj-pvgvmraf. Naq lrg vg vf n
fvathyne snpg gung juvyfg gur znahsnpghevat naq pbzzrepvny vagrerfgf unir
ratntrq gur nggragvba bs Pbaterff qhevat n ynetr cbegvba bs rirel frffvba
naq bhe fgnghgrf nobhaq va cebivfvbaf sbe gurve cebgrpgvba naq
rapbhentrzrag, yvggyr unf lrg orra qbar qverpgyl sbe gur nqinaprzrag bs
ntevphygher. Vg vf gvzr gung guvf ercebnpu gb bhe yrtvfyngvba fubhyq or
erzbirq, naq V fvapreryl ubcr gung gur cerfrag Pbaterff jvyy abg pybfr
gurve ynobef jvgubhg nqbcgvat rssvpvrag zrnaf gb fhccyl gur bzvffvbaf bs
gubfr jub unir cerprqrq gurz.

Na ntevphygheny ohernh, punetrq jvgu gur qhgl bs pbyyrpgvat naq
qvffrzvangvat pbeerpg vasbezngvba nf gb gur orfg zbqrf bs phygvingvba naq
bs gur zbfg rssrpghny zrnaf bs cerfreivat naq erfgbevat gur sregvyvgl bs
gur fbvy naq bs cebphevat naq qvfgevohgvat frrqf naq cynagf naq bgure
irtrgnoyr cebqhpgvbaf, jvgu vafgehpgvbaf va ertneq gb gur fbvy, pyvzngr,
naq gerngzrag orfg nqncgrq gb gurve tebjgu, pbhyq abg snvy gb or, va gur
ynathntr bs Jnfuvatgba va uvf ynfg naahny zrffntr gb Pbaterff, n "irel
purnc vafgehzrag bs vzzrafr angvbany orarsvg."

Ertneqvat gur npg bs Pbaterff nccebirq 28gu Frcgrzore, 1850, tenagvat
obhagl ynaqf gb crefbaf jub unq orra ratntrq va gur zvyvgnel freivpr bs gur
pbhagel, nf n terng zrnfher bs angvbany whfgvpr naq zhavsvprapr, na nakvbhf
qrfver unf orra sryg ol gur bssvpref vagehfgrq jvgu vgf vzzrqvngr rkrphgvba
gb tvir cebzcg rssrpg gb vgf cebivfvbaf. Nyy gur zrnaf jvguva gurve pbageby
jrer gurersber oebhtug vagb erdhvfvgvba gb rkcrqvgr gur nqwhqvpngvba bs
pynvzf, naq V nz tengvsvrq gb or noyr gb fgngr gung arne 100,000
nccyvpngvbaf unir orra pbafvqrerq naq nobhg 70,000 jneenagf vffhrq jvguva
gur fubeg fcnpr bs avar zbaguf. Vs nqrdhngr cebivfvba or znqr ol ynj gb
pneel vagb rssrpg gur erpbzzraqngvbaf bs gur Qrcnegzrag, vg vf pbasvqragyl
rkcrpgrq gung orsber gur pybfr bs gur arkg svfpny lrne nyy jub ner ragvgyrq
gb gur orarsvgf bs gur npg jvyy unir erprvirq gurve jneenagf.

Gur Frpergnel bs gur Vagrevbe unf fhttrfgrq va uvf ercbeg inevbhf
nzraqzragf bs gur ynjf eryngvat gb crafvbaf naq obhagl ynaqf sbe gur
checbfr bs zber rssrpghnyyl thneqvat ntnvafg nohfrf naq senhqf ba gur
Tbireazrag, gb nyy bs juvpu V vaivgr lbhe cnegvphyne nggragvba. Gur ynetr
npprffvbaf gb bhe Vaqvna cbchyngvba pbafrdhrag hcba gur npdhvfvgvba bs Arj
Zrkvpb naq Pnyvsbeavn naq gur rkgrafvba bs bhe frggyrzragf vagb Hgnu naq
Bertba unir tvira vapernfrq vagrerfg naq vzcbegnapr gb bhe eryngvbaf jvgu
gur nobevtvany enpr. Ab zngrevny punatr unf gnxra cynpr jvguva gur ynfg
lrne va gur pbaqvgvba naq cebfcrpgf bs gur Vaqvna gevorf jub erfvqr va gur
Abegujrfgrea Greevgbel naq jrfg bs gur Zvffvffvccv Evire. Jr ner ng crnpr
jvgu nyy bs gurz, naq vg jvyy or n fbhepr bs cyrnfher gb lbh gb yrnea gung
gurl ner tenqhnyyl nqinapvat va pvivyvmngvba naq gur chefhvgf bs fbpvny
yvsr.

Nybat gur Zrkvpna sebagvre naq va Pnyvsbeavn naq Bertba gurer unir orra
bppnfvbany znavsrfgngvbaf bs hasevraqyl srryvat naq fbzr qrcerqngvbaf
pbzzvggrq. V nz fngvfsvrq, ubjrire, gung gurl erfhygrq zber sebz gur
qrfgvghgr naq fgneivat pbaqvgvba bs gur Vaqvnaf guna sebz nal frggyrq
ubfgvyvgl gbjneq gur juvgrf. Nf gur frggyrzragf bs bhe pvgvmraf cebterff
gbjneq gurz, gur tnzr, hcba juvpu gurl znvayl eryl sbe fhofvfgrapr, vf
qevira bss be qrfgeblrq, naq gur bayl nygreangvir yrsg gb gurz vf
fgneingvba be cyhaqre. Vg orpbzrf hf gb pbafvqre, va ivrj bs guvf pbaqvgvba
bs guvatf, jurgure whfgvpr naq uhznavgl, nf jryy nf na rayvtugrarq rpbabzl,
qb abg erdhver gung vafgrnq bs frrxvat gb chavfu gurz sbe bssrafrf juvpu
ner gur erfhyg bs bhe bja cbyvpl gbjneq gurz jr fubhyq abg cebivqr sbe
gurve vzzrqvngr jnagf naq rapbhentr gurz gb ratntr va ntevphygher naq gb
eryl ba gurve ynobe vafgrnq bs gur punfr sbe gur zrnaf bs fhccbeg.

Inevbhf vzcbegnag gerngvrf unir orra artbgvngrq jvgu qvssrerag gevorf
qhevat gur lrne, ol juvpu gurve gvgyr gb ynetr naq inyhnoyr genpgf bs
pbhagel unf orra rkgvathvfurq, nyy bs juvpu jvyy ng gur cebcre gvzr or
fhozvggrq gb gur Frangr sbe engvsvpngvba.

Gur wbvag pbzzvffvba haqre gur gerngl bs Thnqnyhcr Uvqnytb unf orra
npgviryl ratntrq va ehaavat naq znexvat gur obhaqnel yvar orgjrra gur
Havgrq Fgngrf naq Zrkvpb. Vg jnf fgngrq va gur ynfg naahny ercbeg bs gur
Frpergnel bs gur Vagrevbe gung gur vavgvny cbvag ba gur Cnpvsvp naq gur
cbvag bs whapgvba bs gur Tvyn jvgu gur Pbybenqb Evire unq orra qrgrezvarq
naq gur vagreiravat yvar, nobhg 150 zvyrf va yratgu, eha naq znexrq ol
grzcbenel zbahzragf. Fvapr gung gvzr n zbahzrag bs zneoyr unf orra rerpgrq
ng gur vavgvny cbvag, naq creznarag ynaqznexf bs veba unir orra cynprq ng
fhvgnoyr qvfgnaprf nybat gur yvar.

Gur vavgvny cbvag ba gur Evb Tenaqr unf nyfb orra svkrq ol gur
pbzzvffvbaref, ng yngvghqr 32 qrterrf 22', naq ng gur qngr bs gur ynfg
pbzzhavpngvba gur fheirl bs gur yvar unq orra znqr gurapr jrfgjneq nobhg
150 zvyrf gb gur arvtuobeubbq bs gur pbccre zvarf. Gur pbzzvffvba ba bhe
cneg jnf ng svefg betnavmrq ba n fpnyr juvpu rkcrevrapr cebirq gb or
hajvryql naq nggraqrq jvgu haarprffnel rkcrafr. Beqref unir gurersber orra
vffhrq sbe gur erqhpgvba bs gur ahzore bs crefbaf rzcyblrq jvguva gur
fznyyrfg yvzvgf pbafvfgrag jvgu gur fnsrgl bs gubfr ratntrq va gur freivpr
naq gur cebzcg naq rssvpvrag rkrphgvba bs gurve vzcbegnag qhgvrf.

Ergheaf unir orra erprvirq sebz nyy gur bssvpref ratntrq va gnxvat gur
prafhf va gur Fgngrf naq Greevgbevrf rkprcg Pnyvsbeavn. Gur fhcrevagraqrag
rzcyblrq gb znxr gur rahzrengvba va gung Fgngr unf abg lrg znqr uvf shyy
ercbeg, sebz pnhfrf, nf ur nyyrtrf, orlbaq uvf pbageby. Guvf snvyher vf
zhpu gb or erterggrq, nf vg unf ceriragrq gur Frpergnel bs gur Vagrevbe
sebz znxvat gur qrpraavny nccbegvbazrag bs Ercerfragngvirf nzbat gur
Fgngrf, nf erdhverq ol gur npg nccebirq Znl 23, 1850. Vg vf ubcrq, ubjrire,
gung gur ergheaf jvyy fbba or erprvirq, naq ab gvzr jvyy gura or ybfg va
znxvat gur arprffnel nccbegvbazrag naq va genafzvggvat gur pregvsvpngrf
erdhverq ol ynj.

Gur Fhcrevagraqrag bs gur Friragu Prafhf vf qvyvtragyl rzcyblrq, haqre gur
qverpgvba bs gur Frpergnel bs gur Vagrevbe, va pynffvslvat naq neenatvat va
gnohyne sbez nyy gur fgngvfgvpny vasbezngvba qrevirq sebz gur ergheaf bs
gur znefunyf, naq vg vf oryvrirq gung jura gur jbex funyy or pbzcyrgrq vg
jvyy rkuvovg n zber cresrpg ivrj bs gur cbchyngvba, jrnygu, bpphcngvbaf,
naq fbpvny pbaqvgvba bs n terng pbhagel guna unf rire orra cerfragrq gb gur
jbeyq. Gur inyhr bs fhpu n jbex nf gur onfvf bs rayvtugrarq yrtvfyngvba pna
uneqyl or birerfgvzngrq, naq V rnearfgyl ubcr gung Pbaterff jvyy ybfr ab
gvzr va znxvat gur nccebcevngvbaf arprffnel gb pbzcyrgr gur pynffvsvpngvbaf
naq gb choyvfu gur erfhygf va n fglyr jbegul bs gur fhowrpg naq bs bhe
angvbany punenpgre.

Gur jnag bs n havsbez srr ovyy, cerfpevovat gur pbzcrafngvba gb or nyybjrq
qvfgevpg nggbearlf, pyrexf, znefunyf, naq pbzzvffvbaref va pvivy naq
pevzvany pnfrf, vf gur pnhfr bs zhpu irkngvba, vawhfgvpr, naq pbzcynvag. V
jbhyq erpbzzraq n gubebhtu erivfvba bs gur ynjf ba gur jubyr fhowrpg naq
gur nqbcgvba bs n gnevss bs srrf juvpu, nf sne nf cenpgvpnoyr, fubhyq or
havsbez, naq cerfpevor n fcrpvsvp pbzcrafngvba sbe rirel freivpr juvpu gur
bssvpre znl or erdhverq gb cresbez. Guvf fhowrpg jvyy or shyyl cerfragrq va
gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs gur Vagrevbe. Va zl ynfg naahny zrffntr V
tnir oevrsyl zl ernfbaf sbe oryvrivat gung lbh cbffrffrq gur pbafgvghgvbany
cbjre gb vzcebir gur uneobef bs bhe Terng Ynxrf naq frnpbnfg naq gur
anivtngvba bs bhe cevapvcny eviref, naq erpbzzraqrq gung nccebcevngvbaf
fubhyq or znqr sbe pbzcyrgvat fhpu jbexf nf unq nyernql orra pbzzraprq naq
sbe pbzzrapvat fhpu bguref nf zvtug frrz gb gur jvfqbz bs Pbaterff gb or bs
choyvp naq trareny vzcbegnapr. Jvgubhg ercrngvat gur ernfbaf gura hetrq, V
qrrz vg zl qhgl ntnva gb pnyy lbhe nggragvba gb guvf vzcbegnag fhowrpg. Gur
jbexf ba znal bs gur uneobef jrer yrsg va na hasvavfurq fgngr, naq
pbafrdhragyl rkcbfrq gb gur npgvba bs gur ryrzragf, juvpu vf snfg
qrfgeblvat gurz. Terng ahzoref bs yvirf naq infg nzbhagf bs cebcregl ner
naahnyyl ybfg sbe jnag bs fnsr naq pbairavrag uneobef ba gur Ynxrf. Abar
ohg gubfr jub unir orra rkcbfrq gb gung qnatrebhf anivtngvba pna shyyl
nccerpvngr gur vzcbegnapr bs guvf fhowrpg. Gur jubyr Abegujrfg nccrnyf gb
lbh sbe eryvrs, naq V gehfg gurve nccrny jvyy erprvir qhr pbafvqrengvba ng
lbhe unaqf.

Gur fnzr vf va n zrnfher gehr va ertneq gb fbzr bs gur uneobef naq vayrgf
ba gur frnpbnfg.

Gur habofgehpgrq anivtngvba bs bhe ynetr eviref vf bs rdhny vzcbegnapr. Bhe
frggyrzragf ner abj rkgraqvat gb gur fbheprf bs gur terng eviref juvpu
rzcgl vagb naq sbez n cneg bs gur Zvffvffvccv, naq gur inyhr bs gur choyvp
ynaqf va gubfr ertvbaf jbhyq or terngyl raunaprq ol serrvat gur anivtngvba
bs gubfr jngref sebz bofgehpgvbaf. Va ivrj, gurersber, bs guvf terng
vagrerfg, V qrrz vg zl qhgl ntnva gb hetr hcba Pbaterff gb znxr fhpu
nccebcevngvbaf sbe gurfr vzcebirzragf nf gurl znl qrrz arprffnel.

Gur fheirlf bs gur Qrygn bs gur Zvffvffvccv, jvgu n ivrj gb gur ceriragvba
bs gur biresybjf gung unir cebirq fb qvfnfgebhf gb gung ertvba bs pbhagel,
unir orra arneyl pbzcyrgrq, naq gur ercbegf gurerbs ner abj va pbhefr bs
cercnengvba naq jvyy fubegyl or ynvq orsber lbh.

Gur cebgrpgvba bs bhe fbhgujrfgrea sebagvre naq bs gur nqwnprag Zrkvpna
Fgngrf ntnvafg gur Vaqvna gevorf jvguva bhe obeqre unf pynvzrq zl rnearfg
naq pbafgnag nggragvba. Pbaterff univat snvyrq ng gur ynfg frffvba gb nqbcg
zl erpbzzraqngvba gung na nqqvgvbany ertvzrag bs zbhagrq zra fcrpvnyyl
nqncgrq gb gung freivpr fubhyq or envfrq, nyy gung erznvarq gb or qbar jnf
gb znxr gur orfg hfr bs gur zrnaf ng zl qvfcbfny. Nppbeqvatyl, nyy gur
gebbcf nqncgrq gb gung freivpr gung pbhyq cebcreyl or fcnerq sebz bgure
dhnegref unir orra pbapragengrq ba gung sebagvre naq bssvpref bs uvtu
erchgngvba fryrpgrq gb pbzznaq gurz. N arj neenatrzrag bs gur zvyvgnel
cbfgf unf nyfb orra znqr, jurerol gur gebbcf ner oebhtug arnere gb gur
Zrkvpna sebagvre naq gb gur gevorf gurl ner vagraqrq gb birenjr.

Fhssvpvrag gvzr unf abg lrg ryncfrq gb ernyvmr nyy gur orarsvgf gung ner
rkcrpgrq gb erfhyg sebz gurfr neenatrzragf, ohg V unir rirel ernfba gb ubcr
gung gurl jvyy rssrpghnyyl purpx gurve znenhqvat rkcrqvgvbaf. Gur angher bs
gur pbhagel, juvpu sheavfurf yvggyr sbe gur fhccbeg bs na nezl naq nobhaqf
va cynprf bs ershtr naq pbaprnyzrag, vf erznexnoyl jryy nqncgrq gb guvf
cerqngbel jnesner, naq jr pna fpnepryl ubcr gung nal zvyvgnel sbepr,
pbzovarq jvgu gur terngrfg ivtvynapr, pna ragveryl fhccerff vg.

Ol gur gerngl bs Thnqnyhcr Uvqnytb jr ner obhaq gb cebgrpg gur greevgbel bs
Zrkvpb ntnvafg gur vaphefvbaf bs gur fnintr gevorf jvguva bhe obeqre "jvgu
rdhny qvyvtrapr naq raretl" nf vs gur fnzr jrer znqr jvguva bhe greevgbel
be ntnvafg bhe pvgvmraf. V unir raqrniberq gb pbzcyl nf sne nf cbffvoyr
jvgu guvf cebivfvba bs gur gerngl. Beqref unir orra tvira gb gur bssvpref
pbzznaqvat ba gung sebagvre gb pbafvqre gur Zrkvpna greevgbel naq vgf
vaunovgnagf nf rdhnyyl jvgu bhe bja ragvgyrq gb gurve cebgrpgvba, naq gb
znxr nyy gurve cynaf naq neenatrzragf jvgu n ivrj gb gur nggnvazrag bs guvf
bowrpg. Vafgehpgvbaf unir nyfb orra tvira gb gur Vaqvna pbzzvffvbaref naq
ntragf nzbat gurfr gevorf va nyy gerngvrf gb znxr gur pynhfrf qrfvtarq sbe
gur cebgrpgvba bs bhe bja pvgvmraf nccyl nyfb gb gubfr bs Zrkvpb. V unir ab
ernfba gb qbhog gung gurfr vafgehpgvbaf unir orra shyyl pneevrq vagb
rssrpg; arireguryrff, vg vf cebonoyr gung va fcvgr bs nyy bhe rssbegf fbzr
bs gur arvtuobevat Fgngrf bs Zrkvpb znl unir fhssrerq, nf bhe bja unir,
sebz qrcerqngvbaf ol gur Vaqvnaf.

Gb gur qvssvphygvrf bs qrsraqvat bhe bja greevgbel, nf nobir zragvbarq, ner
fhcrenqqrq, va qrsraqvat gung bs Zrkvpb, gubfr gung nevfr sebz vgf
erzbgrarff, sebz gur snpg gung jr unir ab evtug gb fgngvba bhe gebbcf
jvguva ure yvzvgf naq gung gurer vf ab rssvpvrag zvyvgnel sbepr ba gur
Zrkvpna fvqr gb pbbcrengr jvgu bhe bja.

Fb ybat nf guvf funyy pbagvahr gb or gur pnfr gur ahzore naq npgvivgl bs
bhe gebbcf jvyy engure vapernfr guna qvzvavfu gur rivy, nf gur Vaqvnaf jvyy
anghenyyl ghea gbjneq gung pbhagel jurer gurl rapbhagre gur yrnfg
erfvfgnapr. Lrg gurfr gebbcf ner arprffnel gb fhoqhr gurz naq gb pbzcry
gurz gb znxr naq bofreir gerngvrf. Hagvy guvf funyy unir orra qbar arvgure
pbhagel jvyy rawbl nal frphevgl sebz gurve nggnpxf.

Gur Vaqvnaf va Pnyvsbeavn, jub unq cerivbhfyl nccrnerq bs n crnprnoyr
punenpgre naq qvfcbfrq gb phygvingr gur sevraqfuvc bs gur juvgrf, unir
erpragyl pbzzvggrq frireny npgf bs ubfgvyvgl. Nf n ynetr cbegvba bs gur
errasbeprzragf frag gb gur Zrkvpna sebagvre jrer qenja sebz gur Cnpvsvp,
gur zvyvgnel sbepr abj fgngvbarq gurer vf pbafvqrerq ragveryl vanqrdhngr gb
vgf qrsrafr. Vg pna abg or vapernfrq, ubjrire, jvgubhg na vapernfr bs gur
Nezl, naq V ntnva erpbzzraq gung zrnfher nf vaqvfcrafnoyr gb gur cebgrpgvba
bs gur sebagvre.

V vaivgr lbhe nggragvba gb gur fhttrfgvbaf ba guvf fhowrpg naq ba bguref
pbaarpgrq jvgu uvf Qrcnegzrag va gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs Jne. Gur
nccebcevngvbaf sbe gur fhccbeg bs gur Nezl qhevat gur pheerag svfpny lrne
raqvat 30gu Whar arkg jrer erqhprq sne orybj gur rfgvzngr fhozvggrq ol gur
Qrcnegzrag. Gur pbafrdhrapr bs guvf erqhpgvba vf n pbafvqrenoyr qrsvpvrapl,
gb juvpu V vaivgr lbhe rneyl nggragvba. Gur rkcraqvgherf bs gung Qrcnegzrag
sbe gur lrne raqvat 30gu Whar ynfg jrer $9,060,268.58, Gur rfgvzngrf sbe
gur lrne pbzzrapvat 1fg Whyl arkg naq raqvat Whar 30, 1853, ner
$7,898,775.83, fubjvat n erqhpgvbaf bs $1,161,492.75, Gur obneq bs
pbzzvffvbaref gb jubz gur znantrzrag bs gur nssnvef bs gur zvyvgnel nflyhz
perngrq ol gur npg bs 3q Znepu ynfg jnf vagehfgrq unir fryrpgrq n fvgr sbe
gur rfgnoyvfuzrag bs na nflyhz va gur ivpvavgl bs guvf pvgl, juvpu unf orra
nccebirq ol zr fhowrpg gb gur cebqhpgvba bs n fngvfsnpgbel gvgyr.

Gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs gur Anil jvyy rkuvovg gur pbaqvgvba bs gur
choyvp freivpr haqre gur fhcreivfvba bs gung Qrcnegzrag. Bhe aniny sbepr
nsybng qhevat gur cerfrag lrne unf orra npgviryl naq hfrshyyl rzcyblrq va
tvivat cebgrpgvba gb bhe jvqryl rkgraqrq naq vapernfvat pbzzrepr naq
vagrerfgf va gur inevbhf dhnegref bs gur tybor, naq bhe synt unf rireljurer
nssbeqrq gur frphevgl naq erprvirq gur erfcrpg vafcverq ol gur whfgvpr naq
yvorenyvgl bs bhe vagrepbhefr naq gur qvtavgl naq cbjre bs gur angvba.

Gur rkcrqvgvba pbzznaqrq ol Yvrhgranag Qr Unira, qvfcngpurq va frnepu bs
gur Oevgvfu pbzznaqre Fve Wbua Senaxyva naq uvf pbzcnavbaf va gur Nepgvp
Frnf, erghearq gb Arj Lbex va gur zbagu bs Bpgbore, nsgre univat haqretbar
terng crevy naq fhssrevat sebz na haxabja naq qnatrebhf anivtngvba naq gur
evtbef bs n abegurea pyvzngr, jvgubhg nal fngvfsnpgbel vasbezngvba bs gur
bowrpgf bs gurve frnepu, ohg jvgu arj pbagevohgvbaf gb fpvrapr naq
anivtngvba sebz gur haserdhragrq cbyne ertvbaf. Gur bssvpref naq zra bs gur
rkcrqvgvba univat orra nyy ibyhagrref sbe guvf freivpr naq univat fb
pbaqhpgrq vg nf gb zrrg gur ragver nccebongvba bs gur Tbireazrag, vg vf
fhttrfgrq, nf na npg bs tenpr naq trarebfvgl, gung gur fnzr nyybjnapr bs
rkgen cnl naq rzbyhzragf or rkgraqrq gb gurz gung jrer znqr gb gur bssvpref
naq zra bs yvxr engvat va gur yngr rkcybevat rkcrqvgvba gb gur Fbhgu Frnf.

V rnearfgyl erpbzzraq gb lbhe nggragvba gur arprffvgl bs erbetnavmvat gur
aniny rfgnoyvfuzrag, nccbegvbavat naq svkvat gur ahzore bs bssvpref va rnpu
tenqr, cebivqvat fbzr zbqr bs cebzbgvba gb gur uvture tenqrf bs gur Anil
univat ersrerapr gb zrevg naq pncnpvgl engure guna fravbevgl be qngr bs
ragel vagb gur freivpr, naq sbe ergvevat sebz gur rssrpgvir yvfg hcba
erqhprq cnl gubfr jub znl or vapbzcrgrag gb gur cresbeznapr bs npgvir qhgl.
Nf n zrnfher bs rpbabzl, nf jryy nf bs rssvpvrapl, va guvf nez bs gur
freivpr, gur cebivfvba ynfg zragvbarq vf rzvaragyl jbegul bs lbhe
pbafvqrengvba.

Gur qrgrezvangvba bs gur dhrfgvbaf bs eryngvir enax orgjrra gur frn
bssvpref naq pvivy bssvpref bs gur Anil, naq orgjrra bssvpref bs gur Nezl
naq Anil, va gur inevbhf tenqrf bs rnpu, jvyy nyfb zrevg lbhe nggragvba.
Gur snvyher gb cebivqr nal fhofgvghgr jura pbecbeny chavfuzrag jnf
nobyvfurq sbe bssrafrf va gur Anil unf bppnfvbarq gur pbairavat bs ahzrebhf
pbhegf-znegvny hcba gur neeviny bs irffryf va cbeg, naq vf oryvrirq gb unir
unq na vawhevbhf rssrpg hcba gur qvfpvcyvar naq rssvpvrapl bs gur freivpr.
Gb zbqrengr chavfuzrag sebz bar tenqr gb nabgure vf nzbat gur uhznar
ersbezf bs gur ntr, ohg gb nobyvfu bar bs frirevgl, juvpu nccyvrq fb
trarenyyl gb bssrafrf ba fuvcobneq, naq cebivqr abguvat va vgf fgrnq vf gb
fhccbfr n cebterff bs vzcebirzrag va rirel vaqvivqhny nzbat frnzra juvpu vf
abg nffhzrq ol gur Yrtvfyngher va erfcrpg gb nal bgure pynff bs zra. Vg vf
ubcrq gung Pbaterff, va gur nzcyr bccbeghavgl nssbeqrq ol gur cerfrag
frffvba, jvyy gubebhtuyl vairfgvtngr guvf vzcbegnag fhowrpg, naq rfgnoyvfu
fhpu zbqrf bs qrgrezvavat thvyg naq fhpu tenqngvbaf bs chavfuzrag nf ner
pbafvfgrag jvgu uhznavgl naq gur crefbany evtugf bs vaqvivqhnyf, naq ng gur
fnzr gvzr funyy vafher gur zbfg raretrgvp naq rssvpvrag cresbeznapr bs qhgl
naq gur fhccerffvba bs pevzr va bhe fuvcf bs jne.

Gur fgbar qbpx va gur anil-lneq ng Arj Lbex, juvpu jnf gra lrnef va cebprff
bs pbafgehpgvba, unf orra fb sne svavfurq nf gb or fheeraqrerq hc gb gur
nhgubevgvrf bs gur lneq. Gur qel qbpx ng Cuvynqrycuvn vf ercbegrq nf
pbzcyrgrq, naq vf rkcrpgrq fbba gb or grfgrq naq qryvirerq bire gb gur
ntragf bs gur Tbireazrag. Gung ng Cbegfzbhgu, A. U., vf nyfb arneyl ernql
sbe qryvirel; naq n pbagenpg unf orra pbapyhqrq, nterrnoyl gb gur npg bs
Pbaterff ng vgf ynfg frffvba, sbe n sybngvat frpgvbany qbpx ba gur Onl bs
Fna Senapvfpb. V vaivgr lbhe nggragvba gb gur erpbzzraqngvba bs gur
Qrcnegzrag gbhpuvat gur rfgnoyvfuzrag bs n anil-lneq va pbawhapgvba jvgu
guvf qbpx ba gur Cnpvsvp. Fhpu n fgngvba vf uvtuyl arprffnel gb gur
pbairavrapr naq rssrpgvirarff bs bhe syrrg va gung bprna, juvpu zhfg or
rkcrpgrq gb vapernfr jvgu gur tebjgu bs pbzzrepr naq gur encvq rkgrafvba bs
bhe junyr svfurevrf bire vgf jngref.

Gur Aniny Npnqrzl ng Naancbyvf, haqre n erivfrq naq vzcebirq flfgrz bs
erthyngvbaf, abj nssbeqf bccbeghavgvrf bs rqhpngvba naq vafgehpgvba gb gur
chcvyf dhvgr rdhny, vg vf oryvrirq, sbe cebsrffvbany vzcebirzrag, gb gubfr
rawblrq ol gur pnqrgf va gur Zvyvgnel Npnqrzl. N ynetr pynff bs npgvat
zvqfuvczra jnf erprvirq ng gur pbzzraprzrag bs gur ynfg npnqrzvp grez, naq
n cenpgvpr fuvc unf orra nggnpurq gb gur vafgvghgvba gb nssbeq gur nzcyrfg
zrnaf sbe erthyne vafgehpgvba va frnznafuvc, nf jryy nf sbe pehvfrf qhevat
gur inpngvbaf bs guerr be sbhe zbaguf va rnpu lrne.

Gur nqinagntrf bs fpvrapr va anhgvpny nssnvef unir eneryl orra zber
fgevxvatyl vyyhfgengrq guna va gur snpg, fgngrq va gur ercbeg bs gur Anil
Qrcnegzrag, gung ol zrnaf bs gur jvaq naq pheerag punegf cebwrpgrq naq
cercnerq ol Yvrhgranag Znhel, gur Fhcrevagraqrag bs gur Aniny Bofreingbel,
gur cnffntr sebz gur Ngynagvp gb gur Cnpvsvp cbegf bs bhe pbhagel unf orra
fubegrarq ol nobhg sbegl qnlf.

Gur rfgvzngrf sbe gur fhccbeg bs gur Anil naq Znevar Pbecf gur rafhvat
svfpny lrne jvyy or sbhaq gb or $5,856,472.19, gur rfgvzngrf sbe gur
pheerag lrne orvat $5,900,621.

Gur rfgvzngrf sbe fcrpvny bowrpgf haqre gur pbageby bs guvf Qrcnegzrag
nzbhag gb $2,684,220.89, ntnvafg $2,210,980 sbe gur cerfrag lrne, gur
vapernfr orvat bppnfvbarq ol gur nqqvgvbany znvy freivpr ba gur Cnpvsvp
Pbnfg naq gur pbafgehpgvba bs gur qbpx va Pnyvsbeavn, nhgubevmrq ng gur
ynfg frffvba bs Pbaterff, naq fbzr fyvtug nqqvgvbaf haqre gur urnq bs
vzcebirzragf naq ercnvef va anil-lneqf, ohvyqvatf, naq znpuvarel. V qrrz vg
bs zhpu vzcbegnapr gb n whfg rpbabzl naq n pbeerpg haqrefgnaqvat bs aniny
rkcraqvgherf gung gurer fubhyq or na ragver frcnengvba bs gur
nccebcevngvbaf sbe gur fhccbeg bs gur aniny freivpr cebcre sebz gubfr sbe
creznarag vzcebirzragf ng anil-lneqf naq fgngvbaf naq sebz bprna fgrnz znvy
freivpr naq bgure fcrpvny bowrpgf nffvtarq gb gur fhcreivfvba bs guvf
Qrcnegzrag.

Gur ercbeg bs gur Cbfgznfgre-Trareny, urerjvgu pbzzhavpngrq, cerfragf na
vagrerfgvat ivrj bs gur cebterff, bcrengvbaf, naq pbaqvgvba bs uvf
Qrcnegzrag.

Ng gur pybfr bs gur ynfg svfpny lrne gur yratgu bs znvy ebhgrf jvguva gur
Havgrq Fgngrf jnf 196,290 zvyrf, gur naahny genafcbegngvba gurerba
53,272,252 zvyrf, naq gur naahny pbfg bs fhpu genafcbegngvba $3,421,754.

Gur yratgu bs gur sbervta znvy ebhgrf vf rfgvzngrq ng 18,349 zvyrf naq gur
naahny genafcbegngvba gurerba ng 615,206 zvyrf. Gur naahny pbfg bs guvf
freivpr vf $1,472,187, bs juvpu $448,937 ner cnvq ol gur Cbfg-Bssvpr
Qrcnegzrag naq $1,023,250 ner cnvq guebhtu gur Anil Qrcnegzrag.

Gur naahny genafcbegngvba jvguva gur Havgrq Fgngrf, rkpyhqvat gur freivpr
va Pnyvsbeavn naq Bertba, juvpu vf abj sbe gur svefg gvzr ercbegrq naq
rzoenprq va gur gnohyne fgngrzragf bs gur Qrcnegzrag, rkprrqf gung bs gur
cerprqvat lrne 6,162,855 zvyrf, ng na vapernfrq pbfg bs $547,110.

Gur jubyr ahzore bs cbfg-bssvprf va gur Havgrq Fgngrf ba gur 30gu qnl bs
Whar ynfg jnf 19,796. Gurer jrer 1,698 cbfg-bssvprf rfgnoyvfurq naq 256
qvfpbagvahrq qhevat gur lrne.

Gur tebff erirahrf bs gur Qrcnegzrag sbe gur svfpny lrne, vapyhqvat gur
nccebcevngvbaf sbe gur senaxrq znggre bs Pbaterff, bs gur Qrcnegzragf, naq
bssvpref bs Tbireazrag, naq rkpyhqvat gur sbervta cbfgntrf pbyyrpgrq sbe
naq cnlnoyr gb gur Oevgvfu cbfg-bssvpr, nzbhagrq gb $6,727,866.78.

Gur rkcraqvgherf sbe gur fnzr crevbq, rkpyhqvat $20,599.49, cnvq haqre na
njneq bs gur Nhqvgbe, va chefhnapr bs n erfbyhgvba bs gur ynfg Pbaterff,
sbe znvy freivpr ba gur Buvb naq Zvffvffvccv eviref va 1832 naq 1833, naq
gur nzbhag cnvq gb gur Oevgvfu cbfg-bssvpr sbe sbervta cbfgntrf pbyyrpgrq
sbe naq cnlnoyr gb gung bssvpr, nzbhagrq gb $6,024,566.79, yrnivat n
onynapr bs erirahr bire gur cebcre rkcraqvgherf bs gur lrne bs
$703,299.99.

Gur erprvcgf sbe cbfgntrf qhevat gur lrne, rkpyhqvat gur sbervta cbfgntrf
pbyyrpgrq sbe naq cnlnoyr gb gur Oevgvfu cbfg-bssvpr, nzbhagrq gb
$6,345,747.21, orvat na vapernfr bs $997,610.79, be 18.65 cre prag, bire
gur yvxr erprvcgf sbe gur cerprqvat lrne.

Gur erqhpgvba bs cbfgntr haqre gur npg bs Znepu ynfg qvq abg gnxr rssrpg
hagvy gur pbzzraprzrag bs gur cerfrag svfpny lrne. Gur nppbhagf sbe gur
svefg dhnegre haqre gur bcrengvba bs gur erqhprq engrf jvyy abg or frggyrq
orsber Wnahnel arkg, naq ab eryvnoyr rfgvzngr bs gur erprvcgf sbe gur
cerfrag lrne pna lrg or znqr. Vg vf oryvrirq, ubjrire, gung gurl jvyy snyy
sne fubeg bs gubfr bs gur ynfg lrne. Gur fhecyhf bs gur erirahrf abj ba
unaq vf, ubjrire, fb ynetr gung ab shegure nccebcevngvba sebz gur Gernfhel
va nvq bs gur erirahrf bs gur Qrcnegzrag vf erdhverq sbe gur pheerag svfpny
lrne, ohg na nqqvgvbany nccebcevngvba sbe gur lrne raqvat Whar 30, 1853,
jvyy cebonoyl or sbhaq arprffnel jura gur erprvcgf bs gur svefg gjb
dhnegref bs gur svfpny lrne ner shyyl nfpregnvarq.

Va uvf ynfg naahny ercbeg gur Cbfgznfgre-Trareny erpbzzraqrq n erqhpgvba bs
cbfgntr gb engrf juvpu ur qrrzrq nf ybj nf pbhyq or cehqragyl nqbcgrq
hayrff Pbaterff jnf cercnerq gb nccebcevngr sebz gur Gernfhel sbe gur
fhccbeg bs gur Qrcnegzrag n fhz zber guna rdhvinyrag gb gur znvy freivprf
cresbezrq ol vg sbe gur Tbireazrag. Gur erpbzzraqngvbaf bs gur
Cbfgznfgre-Trareny va erfcrpg gb yrggre cbfgntr, rkprcg ba yrggref sebz naq
gb Pnyvsbeavn naq Bertba, jrer fhofgnagvnyyl nqbcgrq ol gur ynfg Pbaterff.
Ur abj erpbzzraqf nqurerapr gb gur cerfrag yrggre engrf naq nqivfrf ntnvafg
n shegure erqhpgvba hagvy whfgvsvrq ol gur erirahr bs gur Qrcnegzrag.

Ur nyfb erpbzzraqf gung gur engrf bs cbfgntr ba cevagrq znggre or fb
erivfrq nf gb eraqre gurz zber fvzcyr naq zber havsbez va gurve bcrengvba
hcba nyy pynffrf bs cevagrq znggre. V fhozvg gur erpbzzraqngvbaf bs gur
ercbeg gb lbhe snibenoyr pbafvqrengvba.

Gur choyvp fgnghgrf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf unir abj orra npphzhyngvat sbe
zber guna fvkgl lrnef, naq, vagrefcrefrq jvgu cevingr npgf, ner fpnggrerq
guebhtu ahzrebhf ibyhzrf, naq, sebz gur pbfg bs gur jubyr, unir orpbzr
nyzbfg vanpprffvoyr gb gur terng znff bs gur pbzzhavgl. Gurl nyfb rkuvovg
zhpu bs gur vapbatehvgl naq vzcresrpgvba bs unfgl yrtvfyngvba. Nf vg frrzf
gb or trarenyyl pbaprqrq gung gurer vf ab "pbzzba ynj" bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf
gb fhccyl gur qrsrpgf bs gurve yrtvfyngvba, vg vf zbfg vzcbegnag gung gung
yrtvfyngvba fubhyq or nf cresrpg nf cbffvoyr, qrsvavat rirel cbjre vagraqrq
gb or pbasreerq, rirel pevzr vagraqrq gb or znqr chavfunoyr, naq
cerfpevovat gur chavfuzrag gb or vasyvpgrq. Va nqqvgvba gb fbzr cnegvphyne
pnfrf fcbxra bs zber ng yratgu, gur jubyr pevzvany pbqr vf abj ynzragnoyl
qrsrpgvir. Fbzr bssrafrf ner vzcresrpgyl qrfpevorq naq bguref ner ragveryl
bzvggrq, fb gung syntenag pevzrf znl or pbzzvggrq jvgu vzchavgl. Gur fpnyr
bs chavfuzrag vf abg va nyy pnfrf tenqhngrq nppbeqvat gb gur qrterr naq
angher bs gur bssrafr, naq vf bsgra eraqrerq zber hardhny ol gur qvssrerag
zbqrf bs vzcevfbazrag be cravgragvnel pbasvarzrag va gur qvssrerag Fgngrf.

Znal ynjf bs n creznarag punenpgre unir orra vagebqhprq vagb nccebcevngvba
ovyyf, naq vg vf bsgra qvssvphyg gb qrgrezvar jurgure gur cnegvphyne pynhfr
rkcverf jvgu gur grzcbenel npg bs juvpu vg vf n cneg be pbagvahrf va sbepr.
Vg unf nyfb serdhragyl unccrarq gung ranpgzragf naq cebivfvbaf bs ynj unir
orra vagebqhprq vagb ovyyf jvgu gur gvgyr be trareny fhowrpg bs juvpu gurl
unir yvggyr be ab pbaarpgvba be eryngvba. Va guvf zbqr bs yrtvfyngvba fb
znal ranpgzragf unir orra urncrq hcba rnpu bgure, naq bsgra jvgu ohg yvggyr
pbafvqrengvba, gung va znal vafgnaprf vg vf qvssvphyg gb frnepu bhg naq
qrgrezvar jung vf gur ynj.

Gur Tbireazrag bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf vf rzcungvpnyyl n tbireazrag bs jevggra
ynjf. Gur fgnghgrf fubhyq gurersber, nf sne nf cenpgvpnoyr, abg bayl or
znqr npprffvoyr gb nyy, ohg or rkcerffrq va ynathntr fb cynva naq fvzcyr nf
gb or haqrefgbbq ol nyy naq neenatrq va fhpu zrgubq nf gb tvir crefcvphvgl
gb rirel fhowrpg. Znal bs gur Fgngrf unir erivfrq gurve choyvp npgf jvgu
terng naq znavsrfg orarsvg, naq V erpbzzraq gung cebivfvba or znqr ol ynj
sbe gur nccbvagzrag bs n pbzzvffvba gb erivfr gur choyvp fgnghgrf bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf, neenatvat gurz va beqre, fhccylvat qrsvpvrapvrf, pbeerpgvat
vapbatehvgvrf, fvzcyvslvat gurve ynathntr, naq ercbegvat gurz gb Pbaterff
sbe vgf npgvba.

Na npg bs Pbaterff nccebirq 30gu Frcgrzore, 1850, pbagnvarq n cebivfvba sbe
gur rkgrafvba bs gur Pncvgby nppbeqvat gb fhpu cyna nf zvtug or nccebirq ol
gur Cerfvqrag, naq nccebcevngrq $100,000 gb or rkcraqrq haqre uvf qverpgvba
ol fhpu nepuvgrpg nf ur fubhyq nccbvag gb rkrphgr gur fnzr. Ba rknzvavat
gur inevbhf cynaf juvpu unq orra fhozvggrq ol qvssrerag nepuvgrpgf va
chefhnapr bs na nqiregvfrzrag ol n pbzzvggrr bs gur Frangr ab bar jnf sbhaq
gb or ragveryl fngvfsnpgbel, naq vg jnf gurersber qrrzrq nqivfnoyr gb
pbzovar naq nqbcg gur nqinagntrf bs frireny.

Gur terng bowrpg gb or nppbzcyvfurq jnf gb znxr fhpu na nqqvgvba nf jbhyq
nssbeq nzcyr naq pbairavrag unyyf sbe gur qryvorengvbaf bs gur gjb Ubhfrf
bs Pbaterff, jvgu fhssvpvrag nppbzzbqngvbaf sbe fcrpgngbef naq fhvgnoyr
ncnegzragf sbe gur pbzzvggrrf naq bssvpref bs gur gjb oenapurf bs gur
Yrtvfyngher. Vg jnf nyfb qrfvenoyr abg gb zne gur unezbal naq ornhgl bs gur
cerfrag fgehpgher, juvpu, nf n fcrpvzra bs nepuvgrpgher, vf fb havirefnyyl
nqzverq. Xrrcvat gurfr bowrpgf va ivrj, V pbapyhqrq gb znxr gur nqqvgvba ol
jvatf, qrgnpurq sebz gur cerfrag ohvyqvat, lrg pbaarpgrq jvgu vg ol
pbeevqbef. Guvf zbqr bs raynetrzrag jvyy yrnir gur cerfrag Pncvgby
havawherq naq nssbeq terng nqinagntrf sbe iragvyngvba naq gur nqzvffvba bs
yvtug, naq jvyy ranoyr gur jbex gb cebterff jvgubhg vagreehcgvat gur
qryvorengvbaf bs Pbaterff. Gb pneel guvf cyna vagb rssrpg V unir nccbvagrq
na rkcrevraprq naq pbzcrgrag nepuvgrpg. Gur pbeare fgbar jnf ynvq ba gur
4gu qnl bs Whyl ynfg jvgu fhvgnoyr prerzbavrf, fvapr juvpu gvzr gur jbex
unf nqinaprq jvgu pbzzraqnoyr encvqvgl, naq gur sbhaqngvbaf bs obgu jvatf
ner abj arneyl pbzcyrgr.

V ntnva pbzzraq gb lbhe snibenoyr ertneq gur vagrerfgf bs gur Qvfgevpg bs
Pbyhzovn, naq qrrz vg bayl arprffnel gb erzvaq lbh gung nygubhtu vgf
vaunovgnagf unir ab ibvpr va gur pubvpr bs Ercerfragngvirf va Pbaterff,
gurl ner abg gur yrff ragvgyrq gb n whfg naq yvoreny pbafvqrengvba va lbhe
yrtvfyngvba. Zl bcvavbaf ba guvf fhowrpg jrer zber shyyl rkcerffrq va zl
ynfg naahny pbzzhavpngvba.

Bgure fhowrpgf jrer oebhtug gb gur nggragvba bs Pbaterff va zl ynfg naahny
zrffntr, gb juvpu V jbhyq erfcrpgshyyl ersre. Ohg gurer jnf bar bs zber
guna beqvanel vagrerfg, gb juvpu V ntnva vaivgr lbhe fcrpvny nggragvba. V
nyyhqr gb gur erpbzzraqngvba sbe gur nccbvagzrag bs n pbzzvffvba gb frggyr
cevingr pynvzf ntnvafg gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Whfgvpr gb vaqvivqhnyf, nf jryy
nf gb gur Tbireazrag, vzcrengviryl qrznaqf gung fbzr zber pbairavrag naq
rkcrqvgvbhf zbqr guna na nccrny gb Pbaterff fubhyq or nqbcgrq.

Vg vf qrrcyl gb or erterggrq gung va frireny vafgnaprf bssvpref bs gur
Tbireazrag, va nggrzcgvat gb rkrphgr gur ynj sbe gur erghea bs shtvgvirf
sebz ynobe, unir orra bcrayl erfvfgrq naq gurve rssbegf sehfgengrq naq
qrsrngrq ol ynjyrff naq ivbyrag zbof; gung va bar pnfr fhpu erfvfgnapr
erfhygrq va gur qrngu bs na rfgvznoyr pvgvmra, naq va bguref frevbhf vawhel
rafhrq gb gubfr bssvpref naq gb vaqvivqhnyf jub jrer hfvat gurve raqrnibef
gb fhfgnva gur ynjf. Cebfrphgvbaf unir orra vafgvghgrq ntnvafg gur nyyrtrq
bssraqref fb sne nf gurl pbhyq or vqragvsvrq, naq ner fgvyy craqvat. V unir
ertneqrq vg nf zl qhgl va gurfr pnfrf gb tvir nyy nvq yrtnyyl va zl cbjre
gb gur rasbeprzrag bs gur ynjf, naq V funyy pbagvahr gb qb fb jurerire naq
jurarire gurve rkrphgvba znl or erfvfgrq.

Gur npg bs Pbaterff sbe gur erghea bs shtvgvirf sebz ynobe vf bar erdhverq
naq qrznaqrq ol gur rkcerff jbeqf bs gur Pbafgvghgvba. Gur Pbafgvghgvba
qrpynerf gung--Ab crefba uryq gb freivpr be ynobe va bar Fgngr, haqre gur
ynjf gurerbs, rfpncvat vagb nabgure, funyy, va pbafrdhrapr bs nal ynj be
erthyngvba gurerva, or qvfpunetrq sebz fhpu freivpr be ynobe, ohg funyy or
qryvirerq hc ba pynvz bs gur cnegl gb jubz fhpu freivpr be ynobe znl or
qhr. Guvf pbafgvghgvbany cebivfvba vf rdhnyyl boyvtngbel hcba gur
yrtvfyngvir, gur rkrphgvir, naq whqvpvny qrcnegzragf bs gur Tbireazrag, naq
hcba rirel pvgvmra bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf.

Pbaterff, ubjrire, zhfg sebz arprffvgl svefg npg hcba gur fhowrpg ol
cerfpevovat gur cebprrqvatf arprffnel gb nfpregnva gung gur crefba vf n
shtvgvir naq gur zrnaf gb or hfrq sbe uvf erfgbengvba gb gur pynvznag. Guvf
jnf qbar ol na npg cnffrq qhevat gur svefg grez bs Cerfvqrag Jnfuvatgba,
juvpu jnf nzraqrq ol gung ranpgrq ol gur ynfg Pbaterff, naq vg abj erznvaf
sbe gur rkrphgvir naq whqvpvny qrcnegzragf gb gnxr pner gung gurfr ynjf or
snvgushyyl rkrphgrq. Guvf vawhapgvba bs gur Pbafgvghgvba vf nf crerzcgbel
naq nf ovaqvat nf nal bgure; vg fgnaqf rknpgyl ba gur fnzr sbhaqngvba nf
gung pynhfr juvpu cebivqrf sbe gur erghea bs shtvgvirf sebz whfgvpr, be
gung juvpu qrpynerf gung ab ovyy bs nggnvaqre be rk cbfg snpgb ynj funyy or
cnffrq, be gung juvpu cebivqrf sbe na rdhnyvgl bs gnkngvba nppbeqvat gb gur
prafhf, be gur pynhfr qrpynevat gung nyy qhgvrf funyy or havsbez guebhtubhg
gur Havgrq Fgngrf, be gur vzcbegnag cebivfvba gung gur gevny bs nyy pevzrf
funyy or ol whel. Gurfr frireny negvpyrf naq pynhfrf bs gur Pbafgvghgvba,
nyy erfgvat ba gur fnzr nhgubevgl, zhfg fgnaq be snyy gbtrgure. Fbzr
bowrpgvbaf unir orra hetrq ntnvafg gur qrgnvyf bs gur npg sbe gur erghea bs
shtvgvirf sebz ynobe, ohg vg vf jbegul bs erznex gung gur znva bccbfvgvba
vf nvzrq ntnvafg gur Pbafgvghgvba vgfrys, naq cebprrqf sebz crefbaf naq
pynffrf bs crefbaf znal bs jubz qrpyner gurve jvfu gb frr gung Pbafgvghgvba
bireghearq. Gurl nibj gurve ubfgvyvgl gb nal ynj juvpu funyy tvir shyy naq
cenpgvpny rssrpg gb guvf erdhverzrag bs gur Pbafgvghgvba. Sbeghangryl, gur
ahzore bs gurfr crefbaf vf pbzcnengviryl fznyy, naq vf oryvrirq gb or qnvyl
qvzvavfuvat; ohg gur vffhr juvpu gurl cerfrag vf bar juvpu vaibyirf gur
fhcerznpl naq rira gur rkvfgrapr bs gur Pbafgvghgvba.

Pnfrf unir urergbsber nevfra va juvpu vaqvivqhnyf unir qravrq gur ovaqvat
nhgubevgl bs npgf bs Pbaterff, naq rira Fgngrf unir cebcbfrq gb ahyyvsl
fhpu npgf hcba gur tebhaq gung gur Pbafgvghgvba jnf gur fhcerzr ynj bs gur
ynaq, naq gung gubfr npgf bs Pbaterff jrer erchtanag gb gung vafgehzrag;
ohg ahyyvsvpngvba vf abj nvzrq abg fb zhpu ntnvafg cnegvphyne ynjf nf orvat
vapbafvfgrag jvgu gur Pbafgvghgvba nf ntnvafg gur Pbafgvghgvba vgfrys, naq
vg vf abg gb or qvfthvfrq gung n fcvevg rkvfgf, naq unf orra npgviryl ng
jbex, gb eraq nfhaqre guvf Havba, juvpu vf bhe purevfurq vaurevgnapr sebz
bhe Eribyhgvbanel snguref.

Va zl ynfg naahny zrffntr V fgngrq gung V pbafvqrerq gur frevrf bs zrnfherf
juvpu unq orra nqbcgrq ng gur cerivbhf frffvba va ersrerapr gb gur
ntvgngvba tebjvat bhg bs gur Greevgbevny naq fynirel dhrfgvbaf nf n svany
frggyrzrag va cevapvcyr naq fhofgnapr bs gur qnatrebhf naq rkpvgvat
fhowrpgf juvpu gurl rzoenprq, naq V erpbzzraqrq nqurerapr gb gur nqwhfgzrag
rfgnoyvfurq ol gubfr zrnfherf hagvy gvzr naq rkcrevrapr fubhyq qrzbafgengr
gur arprffvgl bs shegure yrtvfyngvba gb thneq ntnvafg rinfvba be nohfr. V
jnf abg vaqhprq gb znxr guvf erpbzzraqngvba orpnhfr V gubhtug gubfr
zrnfherf cresrpg, sbe ab uhzna yrtvfyngvba pna or cresrpg. Jvqr qvssreraprf
naq wneevat bcvavbaf pna bayl or erpbapvyrq ol lvryqvat fbzrguvat ba nyy
fvqrf, naq guvf erfhyg unq orra ernpurq nsgre na natel pbasyvpg bs znal
zbaguf, va juvpu bar cneg bs gur pbhagel jnf neenlrq ntnvafg nabgure, naq
ivbyrag pbaihyfvba frrzrq gb or vzzvarag. Ybbxvat ng gur vagrerfgf bs gur
jubyr pbhagel, V sryg vg gb or zl qhgl gb frvmr hcba guvf pbzcebzvfr nf gur
orfg gung pbhyq or bognvarq nzvq pbasyvpgvat vagrerfgf naq gb vafvfg hcba
vg nf n svany frggyrzrag, gb or nqurerq gb ol nyy jub inyhr gur crnpr naq
jrysner bs gur pbhagel. N lrne unf abj ryncfrq fvapr gung erpbzzraqngvba
jnf znqr. Gb gung erpbzzraqngvba V fgvyy nqurer, naq V pbatenghyngr lbh naq
gur pbhagel hcba gur trareny npdhvrfprapr va gurfr zrnfherf bs crnpr juvpu
unf orra rkuvovgrq va nyy cnegf bs gur Erchoyvp. Naq abg bayl vf gurer guvf
trareny npdhvrfprapr va gurfr zrnfherf, ohg gur fcvevg bs pbapvyvngvba
juvpu unf orra znavsrfgrq va ertneq gb gurz va nyy cnegf bs gur pbhagel unf
erzbirq qbhogf naq hapregnvagvrf va gur zvaqf bs gubhfnaqf bs tbbq zra
pbapreavat gur qhenovyvgl bs bhe cbchyne vafgvghgvbaf naq tvira erarjrq
nffhenapr gung bhe yvoregl naq bhe Havba znl fhofvfg gbtrgure sbe gur
orarsvg bs guvf naq nyy fhpprrqvat trarengvbaf.