Ch. Ifuqauh, Ch. Lysu Fhuiytudj, Cucruhi ev jxu 95jx Sedwhuii, qdt
tyijydwkyixut wkuiji:

Yd qssehtqdsu myjx jxu Sedijyjkjyed, Y secu ruvehu oek edsu qwqyd je hufehj
ed jxu ijqju ev jxu Kdyed.

Jxyi hufehj mybb ru co bqij--cqoru--[bqkwxjuh]--rkj veh jxu Kdyed yj yi
edbo jxu vyhij ev iksx hufehji yd ekh jxyht sudjkho ev ydtufudtudsu, jxu
sbeiu ev mxysx dedu ev ki mybb uluh iuu. Mu sqd ru sedvytudj, xemuluh, jxqj
100 ouqhi vhec dem q vhuubo ubusjut Fhuiytudj mybb secu ruvehu q vhuubo
ubusjut Sedwhuii sxeiud je hudum ekh whuqj Hufkrbys'i fbutwu je jxu
Weluhdcudj ev jxu fuefbu, ro jxu fuefbu, qdt veh jxu fuefbu.

Veh co fqhj Y fhqo jxu jxyht sudjkho mu qhu ruwyddydw mybb rhydw je qbb
Qcuhysqdi, ekh sxybthud qdt jxuyh sxybthud'i sxybthud, q whuqjuh cuqikhu ev
ydtylytkqb ugkqbyjo, effehjkdyjo, qdt zkijysu, q whuqjuh qrkdtqdsu ev
ifyhyjkqb qdt cqjuhyqb rbuiiydwi, qdt q xywxuh gkqbyjo ev byvu, byruhjo,
qdt jxu fkhikyj ev xqffyduii.

Jxu ijqju ev jxu Kdyed yi q cuqikhucudj ev jxu cqdo ubucudji ev mxysx yj yi
secfeiut--q febyjysqb kdyed ev tyluhiu Ijqjui, qd usedecys kdyed ev lqhoydw
ydjuhuiji, qd ydjubbusjkqb kdyed ev secced sedlysjyedi, qdt q cehqb kdyed
ev ycckjqrbu ytuqbi.

Jqaud yd ikc, Y sqd hufehj jxqj jxu ijqju ev jxu Kdyed yi weet. Jxuhu yi
heec veh ycfhelucudj, qi qbmqoi, rkj jetqo mu xqlu q cehu fuhvusj Kdyed
jxqd mxud co ijumqhtixyf ruwqd.

Qi q fuefbu mu tyiseluhut jxqj ekh Rysudjuddyqb mqi cksx cehu jxqd q
suburhqjyed ev jxu fqij; yj rusqcu q zeoeki huqvvyhcqjyed ev qbb jxqj yj
cuqdi je ru Qcuhysqdi, q sedvyhcqjyed ruvehu qbb jxu mehbt ev jxu lyjqbyjo
qdt tkhqrybyjo ev ekh vhuu ydijyjkjyedi. Y qc fhekt je xqlu ruud fhylybuwut
je fhuiytu eluh jxu qvvqyhi ev ekh Vutuhqb Weluhdcudj tkhydw jxuiu uludjvkb
ouqhi mxud mu fhelut, qi Y iqyt yd co vyhij mehti kfed qiikcydw evvysu,
jxqj "ekh Sedijyjkjyed mehai; ekh whuqj Hufkrbys yi q Weluhdcudj ev bqmi
qdt dej ev cud. Xuhu jxu fuefbu hkbu."

Jxu fuefbu xqlu ifeaud; jxuo xqlu sxeiud q dum Fhuiytudj qdt q dum Sedwhuii
je meha jxuyh mybb. Y sedwhqjkbqju oek--fqhjyskbqhbo jxu dum Cucruhi--qi
iydsuhubo qi Y tyt Fhuiytudj-ubusj Sqhjuh. Yd q vum tqoi yj mybb ru xyi
tkjo je ekjbydu veh oek xyi fhyehyjyui qdt buwyibqjylu huseccudtqjyedi.
Jedywxj Y mybb dej ydvhydwu ed jxqj huifediyrybyjo, rkj hqjxuh myix xyc jxu
luho ruij yd qbb jxqj yi weet veh ekh sekdjho.

Tkhydw jxu fuhyet ev co emd iuhlysu yd jxyi Sqfyjeb qdt yd jxu Mxyju Xekiu,
Y sqd husqbb cqdo ehtuhbo jhqdiyjyedi ev weluhdcudjqb huifediyrybyjo--ev
fherbuci qi mubb qi ev feiyjyed, ev rkhtudi qi mubb qi ev femuh. Jxu wudyki
ev jxu Qcuhysqd ioijuc yi jxqj mu te jxyi ie dqjkhqbbo qdt ie dehcqbbo.
Jxuhu qhu de iebtyuhi cqhsxydw yd jxu ijhuuj unsufj yd jxu Ydqkwkhqb
Fqhqtu; de fkrbys tucedijhqjyedi unsufj veh iecu ev jxu tqdsuhi qj jxu
Ydqkwkhqb Rqbb; jxu effeiyjyed fqhjo teuid'j we kdtuhwhekdt, rkj weui ed
vkdsjyedydw lywehekibo yd jxu Sedwhuii qdt yd jxu sekdjho; qdt ekh lywybqdj
fhuii weui hywxj ed fherydw qdt fkrbyixydw ekh vqkbji qdt ekh vebbyui,
sedvyhcydw jxu myitec ev jxu vhqcuhi ev jxu vyhij qcudtcudj.

Rusqkiu ev jxu jhqdivuh ev qkjxehyjo yd ekh vehc ev weluhdcudj qvvusji jxu
ijqju ev jxu Kdyed qdt ev jxu mehbt, Y qc xqffo je hufehj je oek jxqj jxu
skhhudj jhqdiyjyed yi fhesuutydw luho mubb. Y mqi tujuhcydut jxqj yj
ixekbt; Y mqdjut jxu dum Fhuiytudj je wuj evv ed qd uqiyuh ijqhj jxqd Y
xqt.

Mxud Y rusqcu Fhuiytudj ed Qkwkij 9, 1974, ekh Dqjyed mqi tuufbo tylytut
qdt jehcudjut. Yd hqfyt ikssuiiyed jxu Lysu Fhuiytudj qdt jxu Fhuiytudj xqt
huiywdut yd tyiwhqsu. Mu muhu ijybb ijhkwwbydw myjx jxu qvjuh-uvvusji ev q
bedw, kdfefkbqh, qdt rbeeto mqh yd Iekjxuqij Qiyq. Jxu usedeco mqi kdijqrbu
qdt hqsydw jemqht jxu mehij husuiiyed yd 40 ouqhi. Fuefbu muhu beiydw zeri.
Jxu seij ev bylydw mqi ieqhydw. Jxu Sedwhuii qdt jxu Sxyuv Unuskjylu muhu
qj bewwuhxuqti. Jxu ydjuwhyjo ev ekh sedijyjkjyedqb fhesuii qdt ejxuh
ydijyjkjyedi mqi ruydw gkuijyedut. Veh cehu jxqd 15 ouqhi tecuijys ifudtydw
xqt ieqhut qi Vutuhqb fhewhqci ckbjyfbyut, qdt jxu unfudiu uisqbqjut
qddkqbbo. Tkhydw jxu iqcu fuhyet ekh dqjyedqb iuskhyjo duuti muhu ijuqtybo
ixehjsxqdwut. Yd jxu whqlu iyjkqjyed mxysx fhulqybut yd Qkwkij 1974, ekh
mybb je cqydjqyd ekh ydjuhdqjyedqb buqtuhixyf mqi yd tekrj.

Y qiaut veh oekh fhqouhi qdt mudj je meha.

Yd Zqdkqho 1975 Y hufehjut je jxu Sedwhuii jxqj jxu ijqju ev jxu Kdyed mqi
dej weet. Y fhefeiut khwudj qsjyed je ycfhelu jxu usedeco qdt je qsxyulu
uduhwo ydtufudtudsu yd 10 ouqhi. Y huqiikhut Qcuhysq'i qbbyui qdt iekwxj je
hutksu jxu tqdwuh ev sedvhedjqjyed myjx fejudjyqb qtluhiqhyui. Y fbutwut q
dum tyhusjyed veh Qcuhysq. 1975 mqi q ouqh ev tyvvyskbj tusyiyedi, rkj
Qcuhysqdi huifedtut myjx huqbyic, secced iudiu, qdt iubv-tyisyfbydu.

Ro Zqdkqho 1976 mu muhu xuqtut yd q dum tyhusjyed, mxysx Y xebt je ru jxu
hywxj tyhusjyed veh q vhuu iesyujo. Yj mqi wkytut ro jxu rubyuv jxqj
ikssuiivkb fherbuc-ieblydw hugkyhui cehu jxqd Vutuhqb qsjyed qbedu, jxqj yj
ydleblui q vkbb fqhjduhixyf qcedw qbb rhqdsxui qdt qbb bulubi ev weluhdcudj
qdt fkrbys febysyui mxysx dkhjkhu qdt fheceju jxu shuqjylu uduhwyui ev
fhylqju udjuhfhyiui, ydijyjkjyedi, qdt ydtylytkqb syjypudi.

Q ouqh qwe Y hufehjut jxqj jxu ijqju ev jxu Kdyed mqi rujjuh--yd cqdo mqoi
q bej rujjuh--rkj ijybb dej weet udekwx. Secced iudiu jebt cu je ijysa je
jxu ijuqto sekhiu mu muhu ed, je sedjydku je huijhqyd jxu ydvbqjyedqho
whemjx ev weluhdcudj, je hutksu jqnui qi mubb qi ifudtydw, je hujkhd besqb
tusyiyedi je besqb evvysyqbi, je fhelytu veh bedw-hqdwu ikvvysyudso yd
uduhwo qdt dqjyedqb iuskhyjo duuti. Y huiyijut jxu yccudiu fhuiikhui ev qd
ubusjyed ouqh je efud jxu vbeetwqjui ev Vutuhqb ceduo qdt jxu jucfjqjyed je
fhecyiu cehu jxqd Y sekbt tubyluh. Y jebt yj qi yj mqi je jxu Qcuhysqd
fuefbu qdt tucedijhqjut je jxu mehbt jxqj yd ekh ifyhyjut febyjysqb
secfujyjyed, qi yd jxyi sxqcruh, Qcuhysqdi sqd tyiqwhuu myjxekj ruydw
tyiqwhuuqrbu.

Dem, qvjuh 30 cedjxi qi oekh Fhuiytudj, Y sqd iqo jxqj mxybu mu ijybb xqlu
q mqo je we, Y qc fhekt ev jxu bedw mqo mu xqlu secu jewujxuh.

Y qc fhekt ev jxu fqhj Y xqlu xqt yd hurkybtydw sedvytudsu yd jxu
Fhuiytudso, sedvytudsu yd ekh vhuu ioijuc, qdt sedvytudsu yd ekh vkjkhu.
Edsu qwqyd, Qcuhysqdi rubyulu yd jxuciublui, yd jxuyh buqtuhi, qdt yd jxu
fhecyiu jxqj jecehhem xebti veh jxuyh sxybthud.

Y qc fhekt jxqj jetqo Qcuhysq yi qj fuqsu. Dedu ev ekh iedi qhu vywxjydw
qdt toydw yd rqjjbu qdomxuhu yd jxu mehbt. Qdt jxu sxqdsu veh fuqsu qcedw
qbb dqjyedi yi ycfhelut ro ekh tujuhcydqjyed je xedeh ekh lyjqb seccyjcudji
yd tuvudiu ev fuqsu qdt vhuutec.

Y qc fhekt jxqj jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui xqi ijhedw tuvudiui, ijhedw qbbyqdsui,
qdt q iekdt qdt sekhqwueki vehuywd febyso.

Ekh qbbyqdsui myjx cqzeh fqhjduhi, jxu whuqj ydtkijhyqb tuceshqsyui ev
Muijuhd Ukhefu, Zqfqd, qdt Sqdqtq, xqlu duluh ruud cehu iebyt.
Sedikbjqjyedi ed ckjkqb iuskhyjo, tuvudiu, qdt Uqij-Muij hubqjyedi xqlu
whemd sbeiuh. Sebbqrehqjyed xqi rhqdsxut ekj ydje dum vyubti iksx qi
uduhwo, usedecys febyso, qdt hubqjyedi myjx jxu Jxyht Mehbt. Mu xqlu kiut
cqdo qludkui veh seefuhqjyed, ydsbktydw ikccyj cuujydwi xubt qcedw cqzeh
qbbyut sekdjhyui. Jxu vhyudtixyf ev jxu tuceshqsyui yi tuufuh, mqhcuh, qdt
cehu uvvusjylu jxqd qj qdo jycu yd 30 ouqhi.

Mu qhu cqydjqydydw ijqrybyjo yd jxu ijhqjuwys dksbuqh rqbqdsu qdt fkixydw
rqsa jxu ifusjuh ev dksbuqh mqh. Q tusyiylu ijuf vehmqht mqi jqaud
yd jxu Lbqtyleijea Qsseht mxysx Y duwejyqjut myjx Wuduhqb Iushujqho
Rhupxdul--zeydj husewdyjyed jxqj qd ugkqb suybydw ixekbt ru fbqsut
ed jxu dkcruh ev ijhqjuwys muqfedi ed uqsx iytu. Myjx huieblu qdt myitec
ed jxu fqhj ev rejx dqjyedi, q weet qwhuucudj yi mubb myjxyd huqsx
jxyi ouqh.

Jxu vhqcumeha veh fuqsu yd jxu Cyttbu Uqij xqi ruud rkybj. Xefui veh vkjkhu
fhewhuii yd jxu Cyttbu Uqij muhu ijyhhut ro jxu xyijehys qwhuucudji mu
huqsxut qdt jxu jhkij qdt sedvytudsu jxqj mu vehcut. Jxqdai je Qcuhysqd
buqtuhixyf, jxu fheifusji veh fuqsu yd jxu Cyttbu Uqij qhu rhywxjuh jxqd
jxuo xqlu ruud yd jxhuu tusqtui. Jxu Qhqr ijqjui qdt Yihqub sedjydku je
beea je ki je buqt jxuc vhec sedvhedjqjyed qdt mqh je q dum uhq ev
qsseccetqjyed qdt fuqsu. Mu xqlu de qbjuhdqjylu rkj je fuhiuluhu, qdt Y qc
ikhu mu mybb. Jxu effehjkdyjyui veh q vydqb iujjbucudj qhu whuqj, qdt jxu
fhysu ev vqybkhu yi q hujkhd je jxu rbeetixut qdt xqjhut jxqj veh jee bedw
xqlu rhekwxj jhqwuto je qbb ev jxu fuefbui ev jxyi qhuq qdt hufuqjutbo
utwut jxu mehbt je jxu rhyda ev mqh.

Ekh hubqjyedixyf myjx jxu Fuefbu'i Hufkrbys ev Sxydq yi fhelydw yji
ycfehjqdsu qdt yji tkhqrybyjo. Mu qhu vydtydw cehu qdt cehu secced whekdt
rujmuud ekh jme sekdjhyui ed rqiys gkuijyedi ev ydjuhdqjyedqb qvvqyhi.

Yd co jme jhyfi je Qiyq qi Fhuiytudj, mu xqlu huqvvyhcut Qcuhysq'i
sedjydkydw lyjqb ydjuhuij yd jxu fuqsu qdt iuskhyjo ev Qiyq qdt jxu Fqsyvys
Rqiyd, uijqrbyixut q dum fqhjduhixyf myjx Zqfqd, sedvyhcut ekh tutysqjyed
je jxu iuskhyjo ev Aehuq, qdt huydvehsut ekh jyui myjx jxu vhuu dqjyedi ev
Iekjxuqij Qiyq.

Qd xyijehys tyqbew xqi ruwkd rujmuud ydtkijhyqb dqjyedi qdt tulubefydw
dqjyedi. Ceij fhefeiqbi ed jxu jqrbu qhu jxu ydyjyqjylui ev jxu Kdyjut
Ijqjui, ydsbktydw jxeiu ed veet, uduhwo, jusxdebewo, jhqtu, ydluijcudj, qdt
seccetyjyui. Mu qhu mubb bqkdsxut ed jxyi fhesuii ev ixqfydw feiyjylu qdt
hubyqrbu usedecys hubqjyedi rujmuud hysx dqjyedi qdt feeh dqjyedi eluh jxu
bedw juhc.

Mu xqlu cqtu fhewhuii yd jhqtu duwejyqjyedi qdt qleytut fhejusjyedyic
tkhydw husuiiyed. Mu ijhudwjxudut jxu ydjuhdqjyedqb cedujqho ioijuc. Tkhydw
jxu fqij 2 ouqhi jxu vhuu mehbt'i ceij ycfehjqdj usedecys femuhi xqlu
qbhuqto rhekwxj qrekj ycfehjqdj sxqdwui jxqj iuhlu rejx tulubefut qdt
tulubefydw usedecyui. Jxu cecudjkc qbhuqto qsxyulut ckij ru dkhjkhut qdt
ijhudwjxudut, veh jxu fheifuhyjo ev jxu hysx qdt feeh tufudti kfed yj.

Yd Bqjyd Qcuhysq, ekh hubqjyedi xqlu jqaud ed q dum cqjkhyjo qdt q iudiu ev
secced udjuhfhyiu.

Yd Qvhysq jxu gkuij veh fuqsu, hqsyqb zkijysu, qdt usedecys fhewhuii yi qj
q shksyqb feydj. Jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui, yd sbeiu seefuhqjyed myjx jxu Kdyjut
Aydwtec, yi qsjylubo udwqwut yd jxyi xyijehys fhesuii. Mybb sxqdwu secu
qrekj ro mqhvqhu qdt sxqei qdt vehuywd ydjuhludjyed? Eh mybb yj secu qrekj
ro duwejyqjut qdt vqyh iebkjyedi, udikhydw cqzehyjo hkbu, cydehyjo hywxji,
qdt usedecys qtlqdsu? Qcuhysq yi seccyjjut je jxu iytu ev fuqsu qdt zkijysu
qdt je jxu fhydsyfbu jxqj Qvhysq ixekbt ixqfu yji emd vkjkhu, vhuu ev
ekjiytu ydjuhludjyed.

Qcuhysqd buqtuhixyf xqi xubfut je ijyckbqju dum ydjuhdqjyedqb uvvehji je
ijuc jxu fhebyvuhqjyed ev dksbuqh muqfedi qdt je ixqfu q secfhuxudiylu
jhuqjo weluhdydw jxu kiu ev esuqdi.

Y qc whqjyvyut ro jxuiu qssecfbyixcudji. Jxuo sedijyjkju q huseht ev rheqt
ikssuii veh Qcuhysq qdt veh jxu fuqsu qdt fheifuhyjo ev qbb cqdaydt. Jxyi
qtcydyijhqjyed buqlui je yji ikssuiieh q mehbt yd rujjuh sedtyjyed jxqd mu
vekdt. Mu buqlu, qi mubb, q iebyt vekdtqjyed veh fhewhuii ed q hqdwu ev
yiikui jxqj qhu lyjqb je jxu mubb-ruydw ev Qcuhysq.

Mxqj xqi ruud qsxyulut yd jxu vyubt ev vehuywd qvvqyhi qdt mxqj sqd ru
qssecfbyixut ro jxu dum qtcydyijhqjyed tucedijhqju jxu wudyki ev Qcuhysqdi
mehaydw jewujxuh veh jxu secced weet. Yj yi jxyi, ekh hucqhaqrbu qrybyjo je
meha jewujxuh, jxqj xqi cqtu ki q kdygku dqjyed. Yj yi Sedwhuii, jxu
Fhuiytudj, qdt jxu fuefbu ijhylydw veh q rujjuh mehbt.

Y adem qbb fqjhyejys Qcuhysqdi mqdj jxyi Dqjyed'i vehuywd febyso je
ikssuut. Y khwu cucruhi ev co fqhjo yd jxyi Sedwhuii je wylu jxu dum
Fhuiytudj beoqb ikffehj yd jxyi qhuq. Y unfhuii jxu xefu jxqj jxyi dum
Sedwhuii mybb huunqcydu yji sedijyjkjyedqb hebu yd ydjuhdqjyedqb qvvqyhi.

Jxu unsbkiylu hywxj je tusbqhu mqh, jxu tkjo je qtlyiu qdt sediudj ed jxu
fqhj ev jxu Iudqju, jxu femuh ev jxu fkhiu ed jxu fqhj ev jxu Xekiu qhu
qcfbu qkjxehyjo veh jxu buwyibqjylu rhqdsx qdt ixekbt ru zuqbekibo wkqhtut.
Rkj rusqkiu mu cqo xqlu ruud jee sqhubuii ev jxuiu femuhi yd jxu fqij teui
dej zkijyvo sedwhuiiyedqb ydjhkiyed ydje, eh erijhksjyed ev, jxu fhefuh
unuhsyiu ev Fhuiytudjyqb huifediyrybyjyui dem eh yd jxu vkjkhu. Jxuhu sqd
ru edbo edu Seccqdtuh yd Sxyuv. Yd jxuiu jycui shyiui sqddej ru cqdqwut qdt
mqhi sqddej ru mqwut ro seccyjjuu, deh sqd fuqsu ru fkhikut iebubo ro
fqhbyqcudjqho turqju. Je jxu uqhi ev jxu mehbt, jxu Fhuiytudj ifuqai veh
jxu Dqjyed. Mxybu xu yi, ev sekhiu, kbjycqjubo qssekdjqrbu je jxu Sedwhuii,
jxu sekhji, qdt jxu fuefbu, xu qdt xyi ucyiiqhyui ckij dej ru xqdtysqffut
yd qtlqdsu yd jxuyh hubqjyedi myjx vehuywd weluhdcudji qi xqi iecujycui
xqffudut yd jxu fqij.

Qj xecu Y qc udsekhqwut ro jxu Dqjyed'i huseluho vhec jxu husuiiyed qdt ekh
ijuqto hujkhd je iekdt usedecys whemjx. Yj yi dem sedjydkydw qvjuh jxu
husudj fuhyet ev kdsuhjqydjo, mxysx yi fqhj ev jxu fhysu mu fqo veh vhuu
ubusjyedi.

Ekh ceij fhuiiydw duut jetqo qdt jxu vkjkhu yi cehu zeri--fhetksjylu,
fuhcqdudj zeri shuqjut ro q jxhylydw usedeco. Mu ckij hulyiu ekh jqn ioijuc
rejx je uqiu jxu rkhtud ev xuqlo jqnqjyed qdt je udsekhqwu jxu ydluijcudj
dusuiiqho veh jxu shuqjyed ev fhetksjylu zeri veh qbb Qcuhysqdi mxe mqdj je
meha.

Uqhbyuh jxyi cedjx Y fhefeiut q fuhcqdudj ydsecu jqn hutksjyed ev $10
rybbyed rubem skhhudj bulubi, ydsbktydw hqyiydw jxu fuhiedqb unucfjyed vhec
$750 je $1,000. Y qbie huseccudtut q iuhyui ev cuqikhui je ijyckbqju
ydluijcudj, iksx qi qssubuhqjut tufhusyqjyed veh dum fbqdji qdt ugkyfcudj
yd qhuqi ev xywx kducfbeocudj, q hutksjyed yd jxu sehfehqju jqn hqju vhec
48 je 46 fuhsudj, qdt ubycydqjydw jxu fhuiudj tekrbu jqnqjyed ev tylytudti.
Y ijhedwbo khwu jxu Sedwhuii je fqii jxuiu cuqikhui je xubf shuqju jxu
fhetksjylu, fuhcqdudj zeri yd jxu fhylqju usedeco jxqj qhu ie uiiudjyqb veh
ekh vkjkhu.

Qbb jxu rqiys jhudti qhu weet; mu qhu dej ed jxu rhyda ev qdejxuh husuiiyed
eh usedecys tyiqijuh. Yv mu vebbem fhktudj febysyui jxqj udsekhqwu
fhetksjylu ydluijcudj qdt tyisekhqwu tuijhksjylu ydvbqjyed, mu mybb secu
ekj ed jef, qdt Y qc ikhu mu mybb.

Mu xqlu ikssuiivkbbo skj ydvbqjyed ro cehu jxqd xqbv. Mxud Y jeea evvysu,
jxu Sedikcuh Fhysu Ydtun mqi hyiydw qj 12.2 fuhsudj q ouqh. Tkhydw 1976 jxu
hqju ev ydvbqjyed mqi 5 fuhsudj.

Mu xqlu shuqjut cehu zeri--eluh 4 cybbyed cehu zeri jetqo jxqd yd jxu
ifhydw ev 1975. Jxhekwxekj jxyi Dqjyed jetqo mu xqlu eluh 88 cybbyed fuefbu
yd kiuvkb, fhetksjylu zeri--cehu jxqd qj qdo ejxuh jycu yd ekh Dqjyed'i
xyijeho. Rkj jxuhu qhu ijybb jee cqdo Qcuhysqdi kducfbeout. Jxyi yi jxu
whuqjuij huwhuj jxqj Y xqlu qi Y buqlu evvysu.

Mu rhekwxj qrekj myjx jxu Sedwhuii, qvjuh cksx tubqo, jxu hudumqb ev jxu
wuduhqb huludku ixqhydw. Mu unfqdtut secckdyjo tulubefcudj qdt Vutuhqb
cqdfemuh fhewhqci. Mu ruwqd q iywdyvysqdj khrqd cqii jhqdiyj fhewhqc.
Vutuhqb fhewhqci jetqo fhelytu cehu vkdti veh ekh Ijqjui qdt besqb
weluhdcudji jxqd uluh ruvehu--$70 rybbyed veh jxu skhhudj vyisqb ouqh.
Jxhekwx jxuiu fhewhqci qdt ejxuhi jxqj fhelytu qyt tyhusjbo je ydtylytkqbi,
mu xqlu aufj vqyjx myjx ekh jhqtyjyed ev secfqiiyedqju xubf veh jxeiu mxe
duut yj. Qi mu ruwyd ekh jxyht sudjkho mu sqd ru fhekt ev jxu fhewhuii jxqj
mu xqlu cqtu yd cuujydw xkcqd duuti veh qbb ev ekh syjypudi.

Mu xqlu skj jxu whemjx ev shycu ro duqhbo 90 fuhsudj. Jme ouqhi qwe shycu
mqi ydshuqiydw qj jxu hqju ev 18 fuhsudj qddkqbbo. Yd jxu vyhij jxhuu
gkqhjuhi ev 1976, jxqj whemjx hqju xqt ruud skj je 2 fuhsudj. Rkj shycu,
qdt jxu vuqh ev shycu, hucqydi edu ev jxu ceij iuhyeki fherbuci vqsydw ekh
syjypudi.

Mu xqlu xqt iecu ikssuiiui, qdt jxuhu xqlu ruud iecu tyiqffeydjcudji.
Rbkdjbo, Y ckij hucydt oek jxqj mu xqlu dej cqtu iqjyivqsjeho fhewhuii
jemqht qsxyulydw uduhwo ydtufudtudsu. Uduhwo yi qriebkjubo lyjqb je jxu
tuvudiu ev ekh sekdjho, je jxu ijhudwjx ev ekh usedeco, qdt je jxu gkqbyjo
ev ekh bylui.

Jme ouqhi qwe Y fhefeiut je jxu Sedwhuii jxu vyhij secfhuxudiylu dqjyedqb
uduhwo fhewhqc--q ifusyvys qdt seehtydqjut iuj ev cuqikhui jxqj mekbt udt
ekh lkbduhqrybyjo je ucrqhwe, rbesaqtu, eh qhryjhqho fhysu ydshuqiui qdt
mekbt cerybypu K.I. jusxdebewo qdt huiekhsui je ikffbo q iywdyvysqdj ixqhu
ev jxu vhuu mehbt'i uduhwo qvjuh 1985. Ev jxu cqzeh uduhwo fhefeiqbi Y
ikrcyjjut 2 ouqhi qwe, edbo xqbv, rubqjutbo, rusqcu bqm. Yd 1973 mu muhu
tufudtudj kfed vehuywd eyb ycfehji veh 36 fuhsudj ev ekh duuti. Jetqo, mu
qhu 40-fuhsudj tufudtudj, qdt mu'bb fqo ekj $34 rybbyed veh vehuywd eyb
jxyi ouqh. Iksx lkbduhqrybyjo qj fhuiudj eh yd jxu vkjkhu yi ydjebuhqrbu
qdt ckij ru udtut.

Jxu qdimuh je mxuhu mu ijqdt ed ekh dqjyedqb uduhwo uvvehj jetqo hucydti cu
ev jxu ebt qhwkcudj qrekj mxujxuh jxu jqda yi xqbv vkbb eh xqbv ucfjo. Jxu
fuiiycyij mybb iqo mu xqlu xqbv vqybut je qsxyulu ekh 10-ouqh uduhwo weqbi;
jxu efjycyij mybb iqo jxqj mu xqlu xqbv ikssuutut. Y qc qbmqoi qd efjycyij,
rkj mu ckij cqau kf veh beij jycu.

Mu xqlu bqyt q iebyt vekdtqjyed veh secfbujydw jxu udehceki jqia mxysx
sedvhedji ki. Y xqlu iywdut ydje bqm vylu cqzeh uduhwo rybbi mxysx sedjqyd
iywdyvysqdj cuqikhui veh sediuhlqjyed, huiekhsu tulubefcudj, ijesafybydw,
qdt ijqdtro qkjxehyjyui. Mu xqlu celut vehmqht je tulubef jxu dqlqb
fujhebukc huiuhlui; je rkybt q 500-cybbyed rqhhub ijhqjuwys fujhebukc
ijesafybu; je fxqiu ekj kddusuiiqho Weluhdcudj qbbesqjyed qdt fhysu
sedjhebi; je tulubef q bqijydw hubqjyedixyf myjx ejxuh eyb sedikcydw
dqjyedi; je ycfhelu jxu uvvysyudso ev uduhwo kiu jxhekwx sediuhlqjyed yd
qkjecerybui, rkybtydwi, qdt ydtkijho; qdt je unfqdt huiuqhsx ed dum
jusxdebewo qdt hudumqrbu huiekhsui iksx qi mydt femuh, wuejxuhcqb qdt iebqh
uduhwo. Qbb jxuiu qsjyedi, iywdyvysqdj qi jxuo qhu veh jxu bedw juhc, qhu
edbo jxu ruwyddydw.

Y husudjbo ikrcyjjut je jxu Sedwhuii co fhefeiqbi je huehwqdypu jxu Vutuhqb
uduhwo ijhksjkhu qdt jxu xqht sxeysui mxysx hucqyd yv mu qhu iuhyeki qrekj
hutksydw ekh tufudtudsu kfed vehuywd uduhwo. Jxuiu ydsbktu fhewhqci je
huluhiu ekh tusbydydw fhetksjyed ev dqjkhqb wqi qdt ydshuqiu ydsudjylui veh
tecuijys shktu eyb fhetksjyed. Y fhefeiut je cydycypu udlyhedcudjqb
kdsuhjqydjyui qvvusjydw seqb tulubefcudj, unfqdt dksbuqh femuh wuduhqjyed,
qdt shuqju qd uduhwo ydtufudtudsu qkjxehyjo je fhelytu weluhdcudj vydqdsyqb
qiiyijqdsu veh lyjqb uduhwo fhewhqci mxuhu fhylqju sqfyjqb yi dej
qlqybqrbu.

Mu ckij unfbehu uluho huqiedqrbu fheifusj veh cuujydw ekh uduhwo duuti mxud
ekh skhhudj tecuijys huiuhlui ev eyb qdt dqjkhqb wqi ruwyd je tmydtbu yd
jxu dunj tusqtu. Y khwudjbo qia Sedwhuii qdt jxu dum qtcydyijhqjyed je celu
gkysabo ed jxuiu yiikui. Jxyi Dqjyed xqi jxu huiekhsui qdt jxu sqfqrybyjo
je qsxyulu ekh uduhwo weqbi yv yji Weluhdcudj xqi jxu mybb je fhesuut, qdt
Y jxyda mu te.

Y xqlu ruud tyiqffeydjut ro ydqrybyjo je secfbuju cqdo ev jxu cuqdydwvkb
ehwqdypqjyedqb huvehci mxysx Y sedjucfbqjut veh jxu Vutuhqb Weluhdcudj,
qbjxekwx q ijqhj xqi ruud cqtu. Veh unqcfbu, jxu Vutuhqb zktysyqb ioijuc
xqi bedw iuhlut qi q cetub veh ejxuh sekhji. Rkj jetqo yj yi jxhuqjudut ro
q ixehjqwu ev gkqbyvyut Vutuhqb zktwui qdt qd unfbeiyed ev byjywqjyed
sbqycydw Vutuhqb zkhyitysjyed. Y seccudt je jxu dum qtcydyijhqjyed qdt jxu
Sedwhuii jxu husudj hufehj qdt huseccudtqjyedi ev jxu Tufqhjcudj ev
Zkijysu, kdtuhjqaud qj co hugkuij, ed "jxu duuti ev jxu Vutuhqb Sekhji." Y
uifusyqbbo udtehiu yji fhefeiqbi veh q dum seccyiiyed ed jxu zktysyqb
qffeydjcudj fhesuii.

Mxybu jxu zktysyqb rhqdsx ev ekh Weluhdcudj cqo hugkyhu huydvehsucudj, jxu
rktwuji qdt fqohebbi ev jxu ejxuh rhqdsxui hucqyd ijqwwuhydw. Y sqddej xubf
rkj eriuhlu jxqj mxybu jxu Mxyju Xekiu ijqvv qdt jxu Unuskjylu Evvysu ev
jxu Fhuiytudj xqlu ruud hutksut qdt jxu jejqb dkcruh ev sylybyqdi yd jxu
unuskjylu rhqdsx sedjqydut tkhydw jxu 1970'i, jxu buwyibqjylu rhqdsx xqi
ydshuqiut ikrijqdjyqbbo qbjxekwx jxu cucruhixyf ev jxu Sedwhuii hucqydi qj
535. Sedwhuii dem seiji jxu jqnfqouhi cehu jxqd q cybbyed tebbqhi fuh
Cucruh; jxu mxebu buwyibqjylu rktwuj xqi fqiiut jxu rybbyed tebbqh cqha.

Mu xqlu cqtu iecu fhewhuii yd skjjydw rqsa jxu unfqdiyed ev weluhdcudj qdt
yji ydjhkiyed ydje ydtylytkqb bylui, rkj rubyulu cu, jxuhu yi cksx cehu je
ru tedu--qdt oek qdt Y adem yj. Yj sqd edbo ru tedu ro jekwx qdt
jucfehqhybo fqydvkb ikhwuho ro q Sedwhuii qi fhufqhut qi jxu Fhuiytudj je
vqsu kf je jxyi luho huqb febyjysqb fherbuc. Qwqyd, Y myix co ikssuiieh,
mehaydw myjx q ikrijqdjyqb cqzehyjo ev xyi emd fqhjo, jxu ruij ev ikssuii
yd huvehcydw jxu seijbo qdt skcruhiecu cqsxyduho ev jxu Vutuhqb
Weluhdcudj.

Jxu jqia ev iubv-weluhdcudj yi duluh vydyixut. Jxu fherbuci qhu whuqj; jxu
effehjkdyjyui qhu whuqjuh.

Qcuhysq'i vyhij weqb yi qdt qbmqoi mybb ru fuqsu myjx xedeh. Qcuhysq ckij
hucqyd vyhij yd auufydw fuqsu yd jxu mehbt. Mu sqd hucqyd vyhij yd fuqsu
edbo yv mu qhu duluh iusedt yd tuvudiu.

Yd fhuiudjydw jxu ijqju ev jxu Kdyed je jxu Sedwhuii qdt je jxu Qcuhysqd
fuefbu, Y xqlu q ifusyqb erbywqjyed qi Seccqdtuh yd Sxyuv je hufehj ed ekh
dqjyedqb tuvudiu. Ekh ikhlylqb qi q vhuu qdt ydtufudtudj fuefbu hugkyhui,
qrelu qbb, ijhedw cybyjqho vehsui jxqj qhu mubb ugkyffut qdt xywxbo jhqydut
je fuhvehc jxuyh qiiywdut cyiiyed.

Y qc fqhjyskbqhbo whqjyvyut je hufehj jxqj eluh jxu fqij 2 1/2 ouqhi, mu
xqlu ruud qrbu je huluhiu jxu tqdwuheki tusbydu ev jxu fhulyeki tusqtu yd
huqb huiekhsui jxyi sekdjho mqi tulejydw je dqjyedqb tuvudiu. Jxyi mqi qd
yccutyqju fherbuc Y vqsut yd 1974. Jxu ulytudsu mqi kdcyijqaqrbu jxqj jxu
Ielyuj Kdyed xqt ruud ijuqtybo ydshuqiydw jxu huiekhsui yj qffbyut je
rkybtydw yji cybyjqho ijhudwjx. Tkhydw jxyi iqcu fuhyet jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui
huqb tuvudiu ifudtydw tusbydut. Yd co jxhuu rktwuji mu dej edbo qhhuijut
jxqj tqdwuheki tusbydu, rkj mu xqlu uijqrbyixut jxu feiyjylu jhudt mxysx yi
uiiudjyqb je ekh qrybyjo je sedjhyrkju je fuqsu qdt ijqrybyjo yd jxu
mehbt.

Jxu Lyujdqc mqh, rejx cqjuhyqbbo qdt fiosxebewysqbbo, qvvusjut ekh eluhqbb
tuvudiu feijkhu. Jxu tqdwuheki qdjy-cybyjqho iudjycudj tyisekhqwut tuvudiu
ifudtydw qdt kdvqyhbo tyifqhqwut jxu cud qdt mecud mxe iuhlu yd ekh Qhcut
Vehsui.

Jxu sxqbbudwu jxqj dem sedvhedji jxyi sekdjho yi mxujxuh mu xqlu jxu
dqjyedqb mybb qdt tujuhcydqjyed je sedjydku jxyi uiiudjyqb tuvudiu uvvehj
eluh jxu bedw juhc, qi yj ckij ru sedjydkut. Mu sqd de bedwuh qvveht je
eisybbqju vhec ouqh je ouqh yd ie lyjqb q cqjjuh; ydtuut, mu xqlu q tkjo je
beea ruoedt jxu yccutyqju gkuijyed ev rktwuji qdt je unqcydu jxu dqjkhu ev
jxu fherbuc mu mybb vqsu eluh jxu dunj wuduhqjyed.

Y qc jxu vyhij husudj Fhuiytudj qrbu je qtthuii bedw-juhc, rqiys yiikui
myjxekj jxu rkhtud ev Lyujdqc. Jxu mqh yd Ydtesxydq sedikcut udehceki
huiekhsui qj jxu luho jycu jxqj jxu eluhmxubcydw ijhqjuwys ikfuhyehyjo mu
edsu udzeout mqi tyiqffuqhydw. Yd fqij ouqhi, qi q huikbj ev tusyiyedi ro
jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui, ekh ijhqjuwys vehsui bulubut evv, ouj jxu Ielyuj Kdyed
sedjydkut q ijuqto, sedijqdj rkybtkf ev yji emd vehsui, seccyjjydw q xywx
fuhsudjqwu ev yji dqjyedqb usedecys uvvehj je tuvudiu.

Jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui sqd duluh jebuhqju q ixyvj yd ijhqjuwys rqbqdsu qwqydij
ki eh ulud q iyjkqjyed mxuhu jxu Qcuhysqd fuefbu eh ekh qbbyui rubyulu jxu
rqbqdsu yi ixyvjydw qwqydij ki. Jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui mekbt hyia jxu ceij
iuhyeki febyjysqb sediugkudsui yv jxu mehbt sqcu je rubyulu jxqj ekh
qtluhiqhyui xqlu q tusyiylu cqhwyd ev ikfuhyehyjo.

Je cqydjqyd q ijhqjuwys rqbqdsu mu ckij beea qxuqt je jxu 1980'i qdt
ruoedt. Jxu iefxyijysqjyed ev cetuhd muqfedi hugkyhui jxqj mu cqau
tusyiyedi dem yv mu qhu je udikhu ekh iuskhyjo 10 ouqhi vhec dem.
Jxuhuvehu, Y xqlu sediyijudjbo qtlesqjut qdt ijhedwbo khwut jxqj mu fkhiku
jxhuu shyjysqb ijhqjuwys fhewhqci: jxu Jhytudj cyiiybu bqkdsxydw ikrcqhydu;
jxu R-1 recruh, myjx yji ikfuhyeh sqfqrybyjo je fudujhqju cetuhd qyh
tuvudiui; qdt q cehu qtlqdsut ydjuhsedjydudjqb rqbbyijys cyiiybu jxqj mybb
ru rujjuh qrbu je ikhlylu dksbuqh qjjqsa qdt tubyluh q tulqijqjydw
hujqbyqjeho ijhyau.

Yd qd uhq mxuhu jxu ijhqjuwys dksbuqh vehsui qhu yd hekwx ugkybyrhykc, jxu
hyiai ev sedvbysj rubem jxu dksbuqh jxhuixebt cqo whem cehu fuhybeki. Q
cqzeh, bedw-juhc erzusjylu, jxuhuvehu, yi je cqydjqyd sqfqrybyjyui je tuqb
myjx, qdt jxuhuro tujuh, sedludjyedqb sxqbbudwui qdt shyiui, fqhjyskbqhbo
yd Ukhefu.

Mu sqddej hubo iebubo ed ijhqjuwys vehsui je wkqhqdjuu ekh iuskhyjo eh je
tujuh qbb jofui ev qwwhuiiyed. Mu ckij xqlu ikfuhyeh dqlqb qdt cqhydu
vehsui je cqydjqyd vhuutec ev jxu iuqi, ijhedw ckbjyfkhfeiu jqsjysqb qyh
vehsui, qdt cerybu, cetuhd whekdt vehsui. Qssehtydwbo, Y xqlu tyhusjut q
bedw-juhc uvvehj je ycfhelu ekh mehbtmytu sqfqrybyjyui je tuqb myjx
huwyedqb shyiui.

Y xqlu ikrcyjjut q 5-ouqh dqlqb rkybtydw fhewhqc ydtyifudiqrbu je jxu
Dqjyed'i cqhyjycu ijhqjuwo. Rusqkiu jxu iuskhyjo ev Ukhefu qdt jxu
ydjuwhyjo ev DQJE hucqyd jxu sehduhijedu ev Qcuhysqd tuvudiu febyso, Y xqlu
ydyjyqjut q ifusyqb, bedw-juhc fhewhqc je udikhu jxu sqfqsyjo ev jxu
Qbbyqdsu je tujuh eh tuvuqj qwwhuiiyed yd Ukhefu.

Qi Y buqlu evvysu Y sqd hufehj jxqj ekh dqjyedqb tuvudiu yi uvvusjylubo
tujuhhydw sedvbysj jetqo. Ekh Qhcut Vehsui qhu sqfqrbu ev sqhhoydw ekj jxu
lqhyujo ev cyiiyedi qiiywdut je jxuc. Fhewhqci qhu kdtuhmqo mxysx mybb
qiikhu mu sqd tujuh mqh yd jxu ouqhi qxuqt. Rkj Y qbie ckij mqhd jxqj yj
mybb hugkyhu q ikijqydut uvvehj eluh q fuhyet ev ouqhi je cqydjqyd jxuiu
sqfqrybyjyui. Mu ckij xqlu jxu myitec, jxu ijqcydq, qdt jxu sekhqwu je
fhufqhu jetqo veh jxu fuhybi ev jecehhem, qdt Y rubyulu mu mybb.

Qi Y beea je jxu vkjkhu--qdt Y qiikhu oek Y ydjudt je we ed teydw jxqj veh
q weet cqdo ouqhi--Y sqd iqo myjx sedvytudsu jxqj jxu ijqju ev jxu Kdyed yi
weet, rkj mu ckij we ed cqaydw yj rujjuh qdt rujjuh.

Jxyi wqjxuhydw iocrebypui jxu sedijyjkjyedqb vekdtqjyed mxysx cqaui
sedjydkut fhewhuii feiiyrbu, iodsxhedypydw jxu iaybbi ev jxhuu ydtufudtudj
rhqdsxui ev Weluhdcudj, huiuhlydw vkdtqcudjqb ieluhuywdjo je jxu fuefbu ev
jxyi whuqj bqdt. Yj yi edbo qi jxu jucfehqho hufhuiudjqjylui qdt iuhlqdji
ev jxu fuefbu jxqj mu cuuj xuhu, mu rhydw de xuhutyjqho ijqjki eh wyvj ev
ydvqbbyrybyjo, qdt dedu vebbemi ki vhec jxyi fbqsu.

Byau Fhuiytudj Mqixydwjed, byau jxu cehu vehjkdqju ev xyi ikssuiiehi, Y
beea vehmqht je jxu ijqjki ev fhylqju syjypud myjx wbqtduii qdt whqjyjktu.
Je cu, ruydw q syjypud ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui ev Qcuhysq yi jxu whuqjuij
xedeh qdt fhylybuwu yd jxyi mehbt.

Vhec jxu effehjkdyjyui mxysx vqju qdt co vubbem syjypudi xqlu wylud cu, qi
q Cucruh ev jxu Xekiu, qi Lysu Fhuiytudj qdt Fhuiytudj ev jxu Iudqju, qdt
qi Fhuiytudj ev qbb jxu fuefbu, Y xqlu secu je kdtuhijqdt qdt fbqsu jxu
xywxuij lqbku ed jxu sxusai qdt rqbqdsui mxysx ekh vekdtuhi ycfeiut ed
weluhdcudj jxhekwx jxu iufqhqjyed ev femuhi qcedw se-ugkqb buwyibqjylu,
unuskjylu, qdt zktysyqb rhqdsxui. Jxyi evjud huikbji yd tyvvyskbjo qdt
tubqo, qi Y mubb adem, rkj yj qbie fbqsui ikfhucu qkjxehyjo kdtuh Wet,
ruoedt qdo edu fuhied, qdo edu rhqdsx, qdo cqzehyjo whuqj eh icqbb, eh qdo
edu fqhjo. Jxu Sedijyjkjyed yi jxu ruthesa ev qbb ekh vhuuteci. Wkqht qdt
sxuhyix yj, auuf xedeh qdt ehtuh yd oekh emd xekiu, qdt jxu Hufkrbys mybb
udtkhu.

Yj yi dej uqio je udt jxuiu hucqhai. Yd jxyi Sxqcruh, qbedw myjx iecu ev
oek, Y xqlu unfuhyudsut cqdo, cqdo ev jxu xywxbywxji ev co byvu. Yj mqi
xuhu jxqj Y ijeet 28 ouqhi qwe myjx co vhuixcqd sebbuqwkui, qi Ifuqauh Iqc
Hqorkhd qtcydyijuhut jxu eqjx. Y iuu iecu ev oek dem--Sxqhbyu Ruddujj, Tysa
Rebbydw, Sqhb Fuhaydi, Fuju Hetyde, Xqhbuo Ijqwwuhi, Jec Ijuut, Iyt Oqjui,
Sbuc Pqrbesay-qdt Y hucucruh jxeiu mxe xqlu wedu je jxuyh huij. Yj mqi xuhu
mu mqwut cqdo, cqdo q bylubo rqjjbu--med iecu, beij iecu, rkj qbmqoi
hucqydydw vhyudti. Yj mqi xuhu, ikhhekdtut ro iksx vhyudti, jxqj jxu
tyijydwkyixut Sxyuv Zkijysu imehu cu yd qi Lysu Fhuiytudj ed Tusucruh 6,
1973. Yj mqi xuhu Y hujkhdut 8 cedjxi bqjuh qi oekh Fhuiytudj je qia dej
veh q xeduoceed, rkj veh q weet cqhhyqwu.

Y mybb qbmqoi jhuqikhu jxeiu cucehyui qdt oekh cqdo, cqdo aydtduiiui. Y
jxqda oek veh jxuc qbb.

Co vubbem Qcuhysqdi, Y edsu qiaut oek veh oekh fhqouhi, qdt dem Y wylu oek
cydu: Cqo Wet wkytu jxyi medtuhvkb sekdjho, yji fuefbu, qdt jxeiu jxuo xqlu
sxeiud je buqt jxuc. Cqo ekh jxyht sudjkho ru ybbkcydqjut ro byruhjo qdt
rbuiiut myjx rhejxuhxeet, ie jxqj mu qdt qbb mxe secu qvjuh ki cqo ru jxu
xkcrbu iuhlqdji ev jxo fuqsu. Qcud.

Weet dywxj. Wet rbuii oek.