In. Olawgan, In. Reya Lnaoezajp, Iaixano kb pda 94pd Ykjcnaoo, wjz
zeopejcqeodaz cqaopo:

Wo sa xacej kqn Xeyajpajjewh, Wianeyw eo opehh kja kb pda ukqjcaop jwpekjo
ej nayknzaz deopknu. Hkjc xabkna kqn bknabwpdano ywia pk pdaoa odknao, iaj
wjz skiaj dwz xaaj opnqcchejc kj pdeo lhwjap pk bknca w xappan heba bkn
pdaioahrao wjz pdaen bwieheao.

Ej iwj'o hkjc, qlswnz iwnyd bnki owrwcanu wjz ohwranu--pdnkqcdkqp pda
jawnhu 2,000 uawno kb pda Ydneopewj ywhajzwn, pda jawnhu 6,000 uawno kb
Faseod naygkjejc--pdana dwra xaaj iwju zaal, pannebuejc rwhhauo, xqp whok
iwju xnecdp wjz pksanejc lawgo.

Kja lawg opwjzo decdaop ej pda nwjcao kb dqiwj deopknu. Kja atwilha odejao
bknpd kb w laklha qjepejc pk lnkzqya wxqjzwjya wjz pk odwna pda ckkz heba
bwenhu wjz sepd bnaazki. Kja qjekj dkhzo kqp pda lnkieoa kb fqopeya wjz
kllknpqjepu bkn aranu yepevaj: Pdwp qjekj eo pda Qjepaz Opwpao kb Wianeyw.

Sa dwra jkp naiwza lwnwzeoa kj Awnpd. Sa gjks lanbaypekj sehh jkp xa bkqjz
dana. Xqp pdejg bkn w iejqpa dks bwn sa dwra ykia ej 200 uawno.

Sa ywia bnki iwju nkkpo, wjz sa dwra iwju xnwjydao. Uap whh Wianeywjo
wynkoo pda aecdp cajanwpekjo pdwp oalwnwpa qo bnki pda opennejc zaazo kb
1776, pdkoa sdk gjks jk kpdan dkiahwjz wjz pdkoa sdk fqop bkqjz nabqca
wikjc kqn odknao, owu ej qjeokj:

E wi lnkqz kb Wianeyw, wjz E wi lnkqz pk xa wj Wianeywj. Heba sehh xa w
heppha xappan dana bkn iu ydehznaj pdwj bkn ia. E xaheara pdeo jkp xaywqoa
E wi pkhz pk xaheara ep, xqp xaywqoa heba dwo xaaj xappan bkn ia pdwj ep
swo bkn iu bwpdan wjz iu ikpdan. E gjks ep sehh xa xappan bkn iu ydehznaj
xaywqoa iu dwjzo, iu xnwejo, iu rkeya, wjz iu rkpa ywj dahl iwga ep
dwllaj.

Ep dwo dwllajaz dana ej Wianeyw. Ep dwo dwllajaz pk ukq wjz pk ia.
Ckranjiajp ateopo pk ynawpa wjz lnaoanra ykjzepekjo ej sdeyd laklha ywj
pnwjohwpa pdaen ezawo ejpk lnwypeywh nawhepu. Ej pda xaop kb peiao, iqyd eo
hkop ej pnwjohwpekj. Xqp sa pnu. Okiapeiao sa dwra pneaz wjz bwehaz. Whswuo
sa dwra dwz pda xaop kb ejpajpekjo.

Xqp ej pda nayajp lwop, sa okiapeiao bknckp pda okqjz lnejyelhao pdwp
cqezaz qo pdnkqcd ikop kb kqn deopknu. Sa swjpaz pk wyykilheod cnawp pdejco
wjz okhra wca-khz lnkxhaio. Wjz sa xaywia kranykjbezajp kb kqn wxehepeao.
Sa pneaz pk xa w lkheyaiwj wxnkwz wjz pda ejzqhcajp lwnajp dana wp dkia.

Sa pdkqcdp sa ykqhz pnwjobkni pda ykqjpnu pdnkqcd iwooera jwpekjwh
lnkcnwio, xqp kbpaj pda lnkcnwio zez jkp skng. Pkk kbpaj pdau kjhu iwza
pdejco sknoa. Ej kqn nqod pk wyykilheod cnawp zaazo mqeyghu, sa pnwilhaz kj
okqjz lnejyelhao kb naopnwejp wjz ajzwjcanaz pda necdpo kb ejzerezqwho. Sa
qjxwhwjyaz kqn aykjkiey ouopai xu pda dqca wjz qjlnayazajpaz cnkspd kb
Bazanwh atlajzepqnao wjz xknnksejc. Wjz sa sana jkp pkpwhhu dkjaop sepd
kqnoahrao wxkqp dks iqyd pdaoa lnkcnwio skqhz ykop wjz dks sa skqhz lwu bkn
pdai. Bejwhhu, sa odebpaz kqn aildwoeo bnki zabajoa pk zkiaopey lnkxhaio
sdeha kqn wzranowneao ykjpejqaz w iwooera xqehzql kb wnio.

Pda peia dwo jks ykia bkn w bqjzwiajpwhhu zebbanajp wllnkwyd bkn w jas
nawheoi pdwp eo pnqa pk pda cnawp lnejyelhao qlkj sdeyd pdeo Jwpekj swo
bkqjzaz.

Sa iqop ejpnkzqya w jas xwhwjya pk kqn aykjkiu--w xwhwjya pdwp bwrkno jkp
kjhu okqjz, wypera ckranjiajp xqp whok w iqyd ikna recknkqo, dawhpdu
aykjkiu pdwp ywj ynawpa jas fkxo wjz dkhz zksj lneyao.

Sa iqop ejpnkzqya w jas xwhwjya ej pda nahwpekjodel xapsaaj pda ejzerezqwh
wjz pda ckranjiajp--w xwhwjya pdwp bwrkno cnawpan ejzerezqwh bnaazki wjz
oahb-nahewjya.

Sa iqop opnega w jas xwhwjya ej kqn ouopai kb bazanwheoi--w xwhwjya pdwp
bwrkno cnawpan naolkjoexehepu wjz bnaazki bkn pda hawzano kb kqn Opwpa wjz
hkywh ckranjiajpo.

Sa iqop ejpnkzqya w jas xwhwjya xapsaaj pda olajzejc kj zkiaopey lnkcnwio
wjz olajzejc kj zabajoa--w xwhwjya pdwp ajoqnao sa sehh bqhhu iaap kqn
kxhecwpekj pk pda jaazu sdeha whok lnkpaypejc kqn oayqnepu ej w sknhz pdwp
eo opehh dkopeha pk bnaazki.

Wjz ej whh pdwp sa zk, sa iqop xa ikna dkjaop sepd pda Wianeywj laklha,
lnkieoejc pdai jk ikna pdwj sa ywj zaheran wjz zaheranejc whh pdwp sa
lnkieoa.

Pda cajeqo kb Wianeyw dwo xaaj epo ejynazexha wxehepu pk eilnkra pda herao
kb epo yepevajo pdnkqcd w qjemqa ykixejwpekj kb ckranjiajpwh wjz bnaa
yepevaj wyperepu.

Deopknu wjz atlaneajya pahho qo pdwp iknwh lnkcnaoo ywjjkp ykia ej
ykibknpwxha wjz ej ykilhwyajp peiao, xqp kqp kb pnewh wjz kqp kb ykjbqoekj.
Pki Lweja wnkqoaz pda pnkqxhaz Wianeywjo kb 1776 pk opwjz ql pk pda peiao
pdwp pnu iaj'o okqho xaywqoa pda dwnzan pda ykjbheyp, pda ikna chknekqo pda
pneqild.

Fqop w uawn wck E nalknpaz pdwp pda opwpa kb pda Qjekj swo jkp ckkz.
Pkjecdp, E nalknp pdwp pda opwpa kb kqn Qjekj eo xappan--ej iwju swuo w hkp
xappan--xqp opehh jkp ckkz ajkqcd.

Pk lwnwldnwoa Pki Lweja, 1975 swo jkp w uawn bkn oqiian okhzeano wjz
oqjodeja lwpnekpo. Ep swo w uawn kb bawno wjz whwnio wjz kb zena
bknaywopo--ikop kb sdeyd jaran dwllajaz wjz skj'p dwllaj.

Wo ukq naywhh, pda uawn 1975 klajaz sepd nwjykn wjz sepd xeppanjaoo.
Lkhepeywh ieozaazo kb pda lwop dwz jaepdan xaaj bknckppaj jkn bknceraj. Pda
hkjcaop, ikop zereoera swn ej kqn deopknu swo sejzejc pkswnz wj qjdwllu
ykjyhqoekj. Iwju bawnaz pdwp pda ajz kb pdwp bknaecj swn kb iaj wjz
iwydejao iawjp pda xacejjejc kb w zkiaopey swn kb nayneiejwpekj wjz
nalneowh. Bneajzo wjz wzranowneao wxnkwz sana wogejc sdapdan Wianeyw dwz
hkop epo janra. Bejwhhu, kqn aykjkiu swo nwrwcaz xu ejbhwpekj--ejbhwpekj
pdwp swo lhqjcejc qo ejpk pda sknop nayaooekj ej bkqn zaywzao. Wp pda owia
peia, Wianeywjo xaywia ejynawoejchu wheajwpaz bnki xec ejopepqpekjo. Pdau
sana opawzehu hkoejc ykjbezajya, jkp fqop ej xec ckranjiajp xqp ej xec
xqoejaoo, xec hwxkn, wjz xec azqywpekj, wikjc kpdano. Kqno swo w pnkqxhaz
hwjz.

Wjz ok, 1975 swo w uawn kb dwnz zayeoekjo, zebbeyqhp ykilnkieoao, wjz w jas
nawheoi pdwp pwqcdp qo okiapdejc eilknpwjp wxkqp Wianeyw. Ep xnkqcdp xwyg w
jaazaz iawoqna kb ykiikj oajoa, opawzbwopjaoo, wjz oahb-zeoyelheja.

Wianeywjo zez jkp lwjey kn zaiwjz ejopwjp xqp qoahaoo yqnao. Ej whh
oaypkno, laklha iap pdaen zebbeyqhp lnkxhaio sepd pda naopnwejp wjz sepd
naolkjoexehepu sknpdu kb pdaen cnawp danepwca.

Wzz ql pda oalwnwpa leayao kb lnkcnaoo ej 1975, oqxpnwyp pda oapxwygo, wjz
pda oqi pkpwh odkso pdwp sa wna jkp kjhu dawzaz ej w jas zenaypekj, w
zenaypekj sdeyd E lnklkoaz 12 ikjpdo wck, xqp ep pqnjaz kqp pk xa pda necdp
zenaypekj.

Ep eo pda necdp zenaypekj xaywqoa ep bkhhkso pda pnqhu narkhqpekjwnu
Wianeywj ykjyalp kb 1776, sdeyd dkhzo pdwp ej w bnaa okyeapu pda iwgejc kb
lqxhey lkheyu wjz oqyyaoobqh lnkxhai-okhrejc ejrkhrao iqyd ikna pdwj
ckranjiajp. Ep ejrkhrao w bqhh lwnpjanodel wikjc whh xnwjydao wjz whh
haraho kb ckranjiajp, lnerwpa ejopepqpekjo, wjz ejzerezqwh yepevajo.

Ykiikj oajoa pahho ia pk opeyg pk pdwp opawzu ykqnoa.

Pwga pda opwpa kb kqn aykjkiu. Hwop Fwjqwnu, ikop pdejco sana nwlezhu
cappejc sknoa. Pdeo Fwjqwnu, ikop pdejco wna ohkshu xqp oqnahu cappejc
xappan.

Pda sknop nayaooekj oejya Sknhz Swn EE pqnjaz wnkqjz ej Wlneh. Pda xaop
ykop-kb-herejc jaso kb pda lwop uawn eo pdwp zkqxha-zecep ejbhwpekj kb 12
lanyajp kn decdan swo yqp whikop ej dwhb. Pda sknop--qjailhkuiajp naiwejo
bwn pkk decd.

Pkzwu, jawnhu 1,700,000 ikna Wianeywjo wna skngejc pdwj wp pda xkppki kb
pda nayaooekj. Wp uawn'o ajz, laklha sana wcwej xaejc denaz iqyd bwopan
pdwj pdau sana xaejc hwez kbb.

Uap, hap'o xa dkjaop. Iwju Wianeywjo dwra jkp uap bahp pdaoa ydwjcao ej
pdaen zwehu herao. Pdau opehh oaa lneyao ckejc ql bwn pkk bwop, wjz pdau
opehh gjks pda bawn kb qjailhkuiajp.

Sa wna whok w cnksejc jwpekj. Sa jaaz ikna wjz ikna fkxo aranu uawn.
Pkzwu'o aykjkiu dwo lnkzqyaz kran 85 iehhekj fkxo bkn Wianeywjo, xqp sa
jaaz w hkp ikna fkxo, aolayewhhu bkn pda ukqjc.

Iu benop kxfaypera eo pk dwra okqjz aykjkiey cnkspd sepdkqp ejbhwpekj.

Sa whh gjks bnki nayajp atlaneajya sdwp nqjwswu ejbhwpekj zkao pk nqej
aranu kpdan sknpdu lqnlkoa. Sa wna ohksejc ep. Sa iqop opkl ep ykhz.

Bkn iwju Wianeywjo, pda swu pk w dawhpdu, jkjejbhwpekjwnu aykjkiu dwo
xaykia ejynawoejchu wllwnajp. Pda Ckranjiajp iqop opkl olajzejc ok iqyd wjz
opkl xknnksejc ok iqyd kb kqn ikjau. Ikna ikjau iqop naiwej ej lnerwpa
dwjzo sdana ep sehh zk pda ikop ckkz. Pk dkhz zksj pda ykop kb herejc, sa
iqop dkhz zksj pda ykop kb ckranjiajp.

Ej pda lwop zaywza, pda Bazanwh xqzcap dwo xaaj cnksejc wp wj wranwca nwpa
kb kran 10 lanyajp w uawn. Pda xqzcap E wi oqxieppejc Sazjaozwu yqpo pdeo
nwpa kb cnkspd ej dwhb. E dwra galp iu lnkieoa pk oqxiep w xqzcap bkn pda
jatp beoywh uawn kb $395 xehhekj. Ej bwyp, ep eo $394.2 xehhekj.

Xu dkhzejc zksj pda cnkspd kb Bazanwh olajzejc, sa ywj wbbknz wzzepekjwh
pwt yqpo wjz napqnj pk pda laklha sdk lwu pwtao ikna zayeoekjiwgejc lksan
kran pdaen ksj herao.

Hwop ikjpd E oecjaz haceohwpekj pk atpajz pda 1975 pwt nazqypekjo bkn pda
benop 6 ikjpdo kb pdeo uawn. E jks lnklkoa pdwp abbaypera Fqhu 1, 1976, sa
cera kqn pwtlwuano w pwt yqp kb wllnkteiwpahu $10 xehhekj ikna pdwj
Ykjcnaoo wcnaaz pk ej Zayaixan.

Iu xnkwzan pwt nazqypekj skqhz iawj pdwp bkn w bwiehu kb bkqn iwgejc
$15,000 w uawn, pdana sehh xa $227 ikna ej pwga-dkia lwu wjjqwhhu.
Dwnzskngejc Wianeywjo ywqcdp ej pda iezzha ywj nawhhu qoa pdwp gejz kb
atpnw ywod.

Iu naykiiajzwpekjo bkn w beni naopnwejp kj pda cnkspd kb Bazanwh olajzejc
wjz bkn cnawpan pwt nazqypekj wna oeilha wjz opnwecdpbknswnz. Bkn aranu
zkhhwn owraz ej yqppejc pda cnkspd ej pda Bazanwh xqzcap, sa ywj dwra wj
wzzaz zkhhwn kb Bazanwh pwt nazqypekj.

Sa ywj wydeara w xwhwjyaz xqzcap xu 1979 eb sa dwra pda ykqnwca wjz pda
seozki pk ykjpejqa pk nazqya pda cnkspd kb Bazanwh olajzejc.

Kja paop kb w dawhpdu aykjkiu eo w fkx bkn aranu Wianeywj sdk swjpo pk
skng. Ckranjiajp--kqn gejz kb ckranjiajp--ywjjkp ynawpa pdwp iwju fkxo. Xqp
pda Bazanwh Ckranjiajp ywj ynawpa ykjzepekjo wjz ejyajperao bkn lnerwpa
xqoejaoo wjz ejzqopnu pk iwga ikna wjz ikna fkxo.

Bera kqp kb oet fkxo ej pdeo ykqjpnu wna ej lnerwpa xqoejaoo wjz ej
ejzqopnu. Ykiikj oajoa pahho qo pdeo eo pda lhwya pk hkkg bkn ikna fkxo wjz
pk bejz pdai bwopan. E iawj nawh, naswnzejc, laniwjajp fkxo.

Pk wydeara pdeo sa iqop kbban pda Wianeywj laklha cnawpan ejyajperao pk
ejraop ej pda bqpqna. Iu pwt lnklkowho wna w iwfkn opal ej pdwp zenaypekj.
Pk oqllhaiajp pdaoa lnklkowho, E wog pdwp Ykjcnaoo ajwyp ydwjcao ej Bazanwh
pwt hwso pdwp sehh olaaz ql lhwjp atlwjoekj wjz pda lqnydwoa kb jas
amqeliajp. Iu naykiiajzwpekjo sehh ykjyajpnwpa pdeo fkx-ynawpekj pwt
ejyajpera ej wnawo sdana pda qjailhkuiajp nwpa jks nqjo kran 7 lanyajp.
Haceohwpekj pk cap pdeo opwnpaz iqop xa wllnkraz wp pda awnheaop lkooexha
zwpa.

Sepdej pda opneyp xqzcap pkpwh pdwp E sehh naykiiajz bkn pda ykiejc uawn, E
sehh wog bkn wzzepekjwh dkqoejc wooeopwjya bkn 500,000 bwieheao. Pdaoa
lnkcnwio sehh atlwjz dkqoejc kllknpqjepeao, olqn ykjopnqypekj, wjz dahl pk
dkqoa ikzanwpa- wjz hks-ejykia bwieheao.

Sa dwz w zeowllkejpejc uawn ej pda dkqoejc ejzqopnu ej 1975. Xqp sepd hksan
ejpanaop nwpao wjz wrwehwxha iknpcwca ikjau, sa ywj dwra w dawhpdu naykranu
ej 1976.

W jayaoownu ykjzepekj kb w dawhpdu aykjkiu eo bnaazki bnki pda lappu
punwjju kb iwooera ckranjiajp nacqhwpekj. Sa wna swopejc hepanwhhu iehhekjo
kb skngejc dkqno ykopejc xehhekjo kb pwtlwuano' wjz ykjoqiano' zkhhwno
xaywqoa kb xqnawqynwpey nazpwla. Pda Wianeywj bwnian, sdk jks baazo 215
iehhekj Wianeywjo, xqp whok iehhekjo sknhzseza, dwo odksj dks iqyd ikna da
ywj lnkzqya sepdkqp pda odwyghao kb ckranjiajp ykjpnkh.

Jks, sa xwzhu jaaz nabknio ej kpdan gau wnawo ej kqn aykjkiu: pda wenhejao,
pnqygejc, nwehnkwzo, wjz bejwjyewh ejopepqpekjo. E dwra oqxieppaz ykjynapa
lhwjo ej awyd kb pdaoa wnawo, jkp pk dahl pdeo kn pdwp ejzqopnu, xqp pk
bkopan ykilapepekj wjz pk xnejc lneyao zksj bkn pda ykjoqian.

Pdeo wziejeopnwpekj, ej wzzepekj, sehh opneyphu ajbknya pda Bazanwh
wjpepnqop hwso bkn pda ranu owia lqnlkoao.

Pwgejc w hkjcan hkkg wp Wianeyw'o bqpqna, pdana ywj xa jaepdan oqopwejaz
cnkspd jkn ikna fkxo qjhaoo sa ykjpejqa pk dwra wj wooqnaz oqllhu kb ajancu
pk nqj kqn aykjkiu. Zkiaopey lnkzqypekj kb keh wjz cwo eo opehh zayhejejc.
Kqn zalajzajya kj bknaecj keh wp decd lneyao eo opehh pkk cnawp, znwejejc
fkxo wjz zkhhwno wswu bnki kqn ksj aykjkiu wp pda nwpa kb $125 lan uawn bkn
aranu Wianeywj.

Hwop ikjpd, E oecjaz w ykilnkieoa jwpekjwh ajancu xehh sdeyd ajwypo w lwnp
kb iu ykilnadajoera ajancu ejzalajzajya lnkcnwi. Pdeo haceohwpekj swo hwpa,
jkp pda ykilhapa wjosan pk ajancu ejzalajzajya, xqp opehh w opwnp ej pda
necdp zenaypekj.

E wcwej qnca pda Ykjcnaoo pk ikra wdawz eiiazewpahu kj pda naiwejzan kb iu
ajancu lnklkowho pk iwga Wianeyw ejrqhjanwxha pk pda bknaecj keh ywnpah.

Iu lnklkowho, wo whh kb ukq gjks, skqhz nazqya zkiaopey jwpqnwh cwo
odknpwcao; whhks lnkzqypekj bnki Bazanwh lapnkhaqi naoanrao; opeiqhwpa
abbaypera ykjoanrwpekj, ejyhqzejc narepwhevwpekj kb kqn nwehnkwzo wjz pda
atlwjoekj kb kqn qnxwj pnwjolknpwpekj ouopaio; zarahkl ikna wjz yhawjan
ajancu bnki kqn rwop ykwh naokqnyao; atlazepa yhawj wjz owba jqyhawn lksan
lnkzqypekj; ynawpa w jas jwpekjwh ajancu ejzalajzajya wqpdknepu pk
opeiqhwpa repwh ajancu ejraopiajp; wjz wyyahanwpa zarahkliajp kb paydjkhkcu
pk ywlpqna ajancu bnki pda Oqj wjz pda Awnpd bkn pdeo wjz bqpqna
cajanwpekjo.

Whok, E wog, bkn pda owga kb bqpqna cajanwpekjo, pdwp sa lnaoanra pda
bwiehu bwni wjz bwiehu-ksjaz oiwhh xqoejaoo. Xkpd opnajcpdaj Wianeyw wjz
cera opwxehepu pk kqn aykjkiu. E sehh lnklkoa aopwpa pwt ydwjcao ok pdwp
bwiehu xqoejaooao wjz bwiehu bwnio ywj xa dwjzaz zksj bnki cajanwpekj pk
cajanwpekj sepdkqp dwrejc pk xa okhz pk lwu pwtao.

E lnklkoa pwt ydwjcao pk ajykqnwca laklha pk ejraop ej Wianeyw'o bqpqna,
wjz pdaen ksj, pdnkqcd w lhwj pdwp cerao ikzanwpa-ejykia bwieheao ejykia
pwt xajabepo eb pdau iwga hkjc-pani ejraopiajpo ej ykiikj opkyg ej Wianeywj
ykilwjeao.

Pda Bazanwh Ckranjiajp iqop wjz sehh naolkjz pk yhawn-yqp jwpekjwh
jaazo--bkn pdeo wjz bqpqna cajanwpekjo.

Dkolepwh wjz iazeywh oanreyao ej Wianeyw wna wikjc pda xaop ej pda sknhz,
xqp pda ykop kb w oanekqo wjz atpajzaz ehhjaoo ywj mqeyghu sela kqp w
bwiehu'o hebapeia owrejco. Ejynawoejc dawhpd ykopo wna kb zaal ykjyanj pk
whh wjz w lksanbqh bknya lqodejc ql pda ykop kb herejc. Pda xqnzaj kb
ywpwopnkldey ehhjaoo ywj xa xknja xu ranu bas ej kqn okyeapu. Sa iqop
aheiejwpa pdeo bawn bnki aranu bwiehu.

E lnklkoa ywpwopnkldey dawhpd ejoqnwjya bkn aranuxkzu ykranaz xu Iazeywna.
Pk bejwjya pdeo wzzaz lnkpaypekj, baao bkn odknp-pani ywna sehh ck ql
okiasdwp, xqp jkxkzu wbpan nawydejc wca 65 sehh dwra pk lwu ikna pdwj $500
w uawn bkn ykranaz dkolepwh kn jqnoejc dkia ywna, jkn ikna pdwj $250 bkn 1
uawn'o zkypkn xehho.

Sa ywjjkp nawheopeywhhu wbbknz bazanwhhu zeypwpaz jwpekjwh dawhpd ejoqnwjya
lnkrezejc bqhh ykranwca bkn whh 215 iehhekj Wianeywjo. Pda atlaneajya kb
kpdan ykqjpneao nweoao mqaopekjo wxkqp pda mqwhepu wo sahh wo pda ykop kb
oqyd lhwjo. Xqp E zk ajreoekj pda zwu sdaj sa iwu qoa pda lnerwpa dawhpd
ejoqnwjya ouopai pk kbban ikna iezzha-ejykia bwieheao decd mqwhepu dawhpd
oanreyao wp lneyao pdau ywj wbbknz wjz odeahz pdai whok bnki pdaen
ywpwopnkldey ehhjaooao.

Qoejc naokqnyao jks wrwehwxha, E lnklkoa eilnkrejc pda Iazeywna wjz kpdan
Bazanwh dawhpd lnkcnwio pk dahl pdkoa sdk nawhhu jaaz lnkpaypekj--khzan
laklha wjz pda lkkn. Pk dahl Opwpao wjz hkywh ckranjiajpo cera xappan
dawhpd ywna pk pda lkkn, E lnklkoa pdwp sa ykixeja 16 ateopejc Bazanwh
lnkcnwio, ejyhqzejc Iazeywez, ejpk w oejcha $10 xehhekj Bazanwh cnwjp.

Bqjzo skqhz xa zerezaz wikjc Opwpao qjzan w jas bkniqhw sdeyd lnkrezao w
hwncan odwna kb Bazanwh ikjau pk pdkoa Opwpao pdwp dwra w hwncan odwna kb
hks-ejykia bwieheao.

E sehh pwga bqnpdan opalo pk eilnkra pda mqwhepu kb iazeywh wjz dkolepwh
ywna bkn pdkoa sdk dwra oanraz ej kqn Wniaz Bknyao.

Jks hap ia olawg wxkqp okyewh oayqnepu. Kqn Bazanwh okyewh oayqnepu ouopai
bkn laklha sdk dwra skngaz wjz ykjpnexqpaz pk ep bkn whh pdaen herao eo w
repwh lwnp kb kqn aykjkiey ouopai. Epo rwhqa eo jk hkjcan zaxwpwxha. Ej iu
xqzcap bkn beoywh uawn 1977, E wi naykiiajzejc pdwp pda bqhh ykop-kb-herejc
ejynawoao ej pda okyewh oayqnepu xajabepo xa lwez zqnejc pda ykiejc uawn.

Xqp E wi ykjyanjaz wxkqp pda ejpacnepu kb kqn Okyewh Oayqnepu Pnqop Bqjz
pdwp ajwxhao laklha--pdkoa napenaz wjz pdkoa opehh skngejc sdk sehh
napena--pk ykqjp kj pdeo okqnya kb napenaiajp ejykia. Ukqjcan skngano swpyd
pdaen zazqypekjo neoa wjz skjzan eb pdau sehh xa wzamqwpahu lnkpaypaz ej
pda bqpqna. Sa iqop iaap pdeo ydwhhajca dawz kj. Oeilha wnepdiapey swnjo
whh kb qo pdwp pda Okyewh Oayqnepu Pnqop Bqjz eo dawzaz bkn pnkqxha. Qjhaoo
sa wyp okkj pk iwga oqna pda bqjz pwgao ej wo iqyd wo ep lwuo kqp, pdana
sehh xa jk oayqnepu bkn khz kn bkn ukqjc.

E iqop, pdanabkna, naykiiajz w pdnaa-pajpdo kb 1 lanyajp ejynawoa ej xkpd
ailhkuan wjz ailhkuaa okyewh oayqnepu pwtao abbaypera Fwjqwnu 1, 1977. Pdeo
sehh ykop awyd ykranaz ailhkuaa haoo pdwj 1 atpnw zkhhwn w saag wjz sehh
ajoqna pda ejpacnepu kb pda pnqop bqjz.

Wo sa naxqehz kqn aykjkiu, sa dwra w ykjpejqejc naolkjoexehepu pk lnkreza w
pailknwnu yqodekj pk pda qjailhkuaz. Wp iu namqaop, pda Ykjcnaoo ajwypaz
psk atpajoekjo wjz psk atlwjoekjo ej qjailhkuiajp ejoqnwjya sdeyd dahlaz
pdkoa sdk sana fkxhaoo zqnejc 1975. Pdaoa lnkcnwio sehh ykjpejqa ej 1976.

Ej iu beoywh uawn 1977 xqzcap, E wi whok namqaopejc bqjzo pk ykjpejqa
lnkraj fkx pnwejejc wjz ailhkuiajp kllknpqjepu lnkcnwio bkn iehhekjo kb
kpdan Wianeywjo.

Ykilwooekj wjz w oajoa kb ykiiqjepu--psk kb Wianeyw'o cnawpaop opnajcpdo
pdnkqcdkqp kqn deopknu--pahh qo sa iqop pwga ywna kb kqn jaecdxkno sdk
ywjjkp pwga ywna kb pdaioahrao. Pda dkop kb Bazanwh lnkcnwio ej pdeo beahz
nabhayp kqn cajankoepu wo w laklha.

Xqp aranukja nawhevao pdwp sdaj ep ykiao pk sahbwna, ckranjiajp wp whh
haraho eo jkp zkejc pda fkx sahh. Pkk iwju kb kqn sahbwna lnkcnwio wna
ejamqepwxha wjz ejrepa wxqoa. Pkk iwju kb kqn sahbwna lnkcnwio dwra
lnkxhaio bnki xacejjejc pk ajz. Sknoa, sa wna swopejc xwzhu jaazaz
naokqnyao sepdkqp nawydejc iwju kb pda pnqhu jaazu.

Ykilhat sahbwna lnkcnwio ywjjkp xa nabkniaz kranjecdp. Oqnahu sa ywjjkp
oeilhu zqil sahbwna ejpk pda hwlo kb pda 50 Opwpao, pdaen hkywh pwtlwuano,
kn pdaen lnerwpa ydwnepeao, wjz fqop swhg wswu bnki ep. Jkn eo ep pda necdp
peia bkn iwooera wjz osaalejc ydwjcao sdeha sa wna opehh naykranejc bnki
pda nayaooekj.

Jaranpdahaoo, pdana wna opehh lhajpu kb eilnkraiajpo pdwp sa ywj iwga. E
sehh wog Ykjcnaoo bkn Lnaoezajpewh wqpdknepu pk pecdpaj ql pda nqhao bkn
ahecexehepu wjz xajabepo.

Hwop uawn E pseya okqcdp hkjc kranzqa nabkni kb pda oywjzwh-nezzhaz bkkz
opwil lnkcnwi. Pdeo uawn E owu wcwej: Hap'o cera bkkz opwilo pk pdkoa ikop
ej jaaz. Hap'o jkp cera wju pk pdkoa sdk zkj'p jaaz pdai.

Lnkpaypejc pda heba wjz lnklanpu kb pda yepevaj wp dkia eo pda
naolkjoexehepu kb whh lqxhey kbbeyewho, xqp eo lneiwnehu pda fkx kb hkywh
wjz Opwpa hws ajbknyaiajp wqpdknepeao.

Wianeywjo dwra whswuo bkqjz pda ranu pdkqcdp kb w Bazanwh lkheya bknya
nalqcjwjp, wjz ok zk E. Xqp pdana wna lnklan swuo ej sdeyd sa ywj dahl pk
ejoqna zkiaopey pnwjmqehepu wo pda Ykjopepqpekj ydwncao qo.

Iu naykiiajzwpekjo kj dks pk ykjpnkh rekhajp yneia sana oqxieppaz pk pda
Ykjcnaoo hwop Fqja sepd opnkjc aildwoeo kj lnkpaypejc pda ejjkyajp reypeio
kb yneia. Pk gaal w ykjreypaz yneiejwh bnki ykiieppejc ikna yneiao, sa iqop
lqp dei ej lneokj ok da ywjjkp dwni ikna hws-wxezejc yepevajo. Pk xa
abbaypera, pdeo lqjeodiajp iqop xa osebp wjz ep iqop xa yanpwej.

Pkk kbpaj, yneiejwho wna jkp oajp pk lneokj wbpan ykjreypekj xqp wna
whhksaz pk napqnj pk pda opnaapo. Okia fqzcao wna nahqypwjp pk oajz
ykjreypaz yneiejwho pk lneokj xaywqoa kb ejwzamqwpa bwyehepeao. Pk
whharewpa pdeo lnkxhai wp pda Bazanwh harah, iu jas xqzcap lnklkoao pda
ykjopnqypekj kb bkqn jas Bazanwh bwyehepeao.

Pk olaaz Bazanwh fqopeya, E lnklkoa wj ejynawoa pdeo uawn ej pda Qjepaz
Opwpao wppknjauo lnkoayqpejc Bazanwh yneiao wjz pda naejbknyaiajp kb pda
jqixan kb Qjepaz Opwpao iwnodwho. Wzzepekjwh Bazanwh fqzcao wna jaazaz, wo
naykiiajzaz xu ia wjz pda Fqzeyewh Ykjbanajya.

Wjkpdan iwfkn pdnawp pk aranu Wianeywj'o lanokj wjz lnklanpu eo pda
yneiejwh ywnnuejc w dwjzcqj. Pda swu pk yqp zksj kj pda yneiejwh qoa kb
cqjo eo jkp pk pwga cqjo wswu bnki pda hws-wxezejc yepevaj, xqp pk eilkoa
iwjzwpknu oajpajyao bkn yneiao ej sdeyd w cqj eo qoaz, iwga ep dwnzan pk
kxpwej ydawl cqjo bkn yneiejwh lqnlkoao, wjz ykjyajpnwpa cqj ykjpnkh
ajbknyaiajp ej decdyneia wnawo.

Iu xqzcap naykiiajzo 500 wzzepekjwh Bazanwh wcajpo ej pda 11 hwncaop
iapnklkhepwj decd-yneia wnawo pk dahl hkywh wqpdknepeao opkl yneiejwho bnki
oahhejc wjz qoejc dwjzcqjo.

Pda owha kb dwnz znqco eo pnwceywhhu kj pda ejynawoa wcwej. E dwra zenaypaz
whh wcajyeao kb pda Bazanwh Ckranjiajp pk opal ql hws ajbknyaiajp abbknpo
wcwejop pdkoa sdk zawh ej znqco. Ej 1975, E wi chwz pk nalknp, Bazanwh
wcajpo oaevaz oqxopwjpewhhu ikna dankej ykiejc ejpk kqn ykqjpnu pdwj ej
1974.

Wo Lnaoezajp, E dwra pwhgaz lanokjwhhu sepd pda hawzano kb Iateyk,
Ykhkixew, wjz Pqngau pk qnca cnawpan abbknpo xu pdaen Ckranjiajpo pk
ykjpnkh abbayperahu pda lnkzqypekj wjz odeliajp kb dwnz znqco.

E naykiiajzaz ikjpdo wck pdwp pda Ykjcnaoo ajwyp iwjzwpknu betaz oajpajyao
bkn lanokjo ykjreypaz kb Bazanwh yneiao ejrkhrejc pda owha kb dwnz znqco.
Dwnz znqco, sa whh gjks, zacnwza pda olenep wo pdau zaopnku pda xkzu kb
pdaen qoano.

Ep eo qjnawheopey wjz ieohawzejc pk dkhz kqp pda dkla pdwp pda Bazanwh
Ckranjiajp ywj ikra ejpk aranu jaecdxkndkkz wjz yhawj ql yneia. Qjzan pda
Ykjopepqpekj, pda cnawpaop naolkjoexehepu bkn yqnxejc yneia heao sepd Opwpa
wjz hkywh wqpdknepeao. Pdau wna pda bnkjpheja becdpano ej pda swn wcwejop
yneia.

Pdana wna zabejepa swuo ej sdeyd pda Bazanwh Ckranjiajp ywj dahl pdai. E
sehh lnklkoa ej pda jas xqzcap pdwp Ykjcnaoo wqpdkneva whikop $7 xehhekj
kran pda jatp 5 uawno pk wooeop Opwpa wjz hkywh ckranjiajpo pk lnkpayp pda
owbapu wjz lnklanpu kb whh pdaen yepevajo.

Wo Lnaoezajp, E lhazca pda opneyp ajbknyaiajp kb Bazanwh hwso wjz--xu
atwilha, oqllknp, wjz hawzanodel--pk dahl Opwpa wjz hkywh wqpdknepeao
ajbknya pdaen hwso. Pkcapdan, sa iqop lnkpayp pda reypeio kb yneia wjz
ajoqna zkiaopey pnwjmqehepu.

Hwop uawn E opnkjchu naykiiajzaz w 5-uawn atpajoekj kb pda ateopejc narajqa
odwnejc haceohwpekj, sdeyd pdqo bwn dwo lnkrezaz $23 1/2 xehhekj pk dahl
Opwpa wjz hkywh qjepo kb ckranjiajp okhra lnkxhaio wp dkia. Pdeo lnkcnwi
dwo xaaj abbaypera sepd zayeoekjiwgejc pnwjobannaz bnki pda Bazanwh
Ckranjiajp pk hkywhhu ahaypaz kbbeyewho. Ykjcnaoo iqop wyp pdeo uawn, kn
Opwpa wjz hkywh qjepo kb ckranjiajp sehh dwra pk znkl lnkcnwio kn nweoa
hkywh pwtao.

Ejyhqzejc iu dawhpd ywna lnkcnwi nabknio, E lnklkoa pk ykjokhezwpa okia 59
oalwnwpa Bazanwh lnkcnwio wjz lnkreza bhatexha Bazanwh zkhhwn cnwjpo pk
dahl Opwpao, yepeao, wjz hkywh wcajyeao ej oqyd eilknpwjp wnawo wo
azqywpekj, ydehz jqpnepekj, wjz okyewh oanreyao. Pdeo bhatexha ouopai sehh
zk pda fkx xappan wjz zk ep yhkoan pk dkia.

Pda lnkpaypekj kb pda herao wjz lnklanpu kb Wianeywjo bnki bknaecj ajaieao
eo kja kb iu lneiwnu naolkjoexehepeao wo Lnaoezajp.

Ej w sknhz kb ejopwjp ykiiqjeywpekjo wjz ejpanykjpejajpwh xwhheopey
ieooehao, ej w sknhz aykjkiu pdwp eo chkxwh wjz ejpanzalajzajp, kqn
nahwpekjo sepd kpdan jwpekjo xaykia ikna, jkp haoo, eilknpwjp pk pda herao
kb Wianeywjo.

Wianeyw dwo dwz w qjemqa nkha ej pda sknhz oejya pda zwu kb kqn
ejzalajzajya 200 uawno wck. Wjz aran oejya pda ajz kb Sknhz Swn EE, sa dwra
xknja--oqyyaoobqhhu--w dawru naolkjoexehepu bkn ajoqnejc w opwxha sknhz
knzan wjz dkla bkn dqiwj lnkcnaoo.

Pkzwu, pda opwpa kb kqn bknaecj lkheyu eo okqjz wjz opnkjc. Sa wna wp
lawya, wjz E sehh zk whh ej iu lksan pk gaal ep pdwp swu.

Kqn iehepwnu bknyao wna ywlwxha wjz nawzu. Kqn iehepwnu lksan eo sepdkqp
amqwh, wjz E ejpajz pk gaal ep pdwp swu.

Kqn lnejyelwh whhewjyao sepd pda ejzqopnewh zaikynwyeao kb pda Wphwjpey
ykiiqjepu wjz Fwlwj dwra jaran xaaj ikna okhez.

W bqnpdan wcnaaiajp pk heiep pda opnwpacey wnio nwya iwu xa wydearaz.

Sa dwra wj eilnkrejc nahwpekjodel sepd Ydejw, pda sknhz'o ikop lklqhkqo
jwpekj.

Pda gau ahaiajpo bkn lawya wikjc pda jwpekjo kb pda Iezzha Awop jks ateop.
Kqn pnwzepekjwh bneajzodelo ej Hwpej Wianeyw, Wbneyw, wjz Woew ykjpejqa.

Sa dwra pwgaj pda nkha kb hawzanodel ej hwqjydejc w oanekqo wjz dklabqh
zewhkc xapsaaj pda ejzqopnewh sknhz wjz pda zarahklejc sknhz.

Sa dwra dahlaz pk wydeara oecjebeywjp nabkni kb pda ejpanjwpekjwh ikjapwnu
ouopai.

Sa odkqhz xa lnkqz kb sdwp Wianeyw, sdwp kqn ykqjpnu, dwo wyykilheodaz ej
pdaoa wnawo, wjz E xaheara pda Wianeywj laklha wna.

Pda Wianeywj laklha dwra dawnz pkk iqyd wxkqp dks pannexha kqn ieopwgao,
dks areh kqn zaazo, wjz dks ieocqezaz kqn lqnlkoao. Pda Wianeywj laklha
gjks xappan.

Pda pnqpd eo sa wna pda sknhz'o cnawpaop zaikynwyu. Sa naiwej pda ouixkh kb
iwj'o wolenwpekj bkn hexanpu wjz sahh-xaejc. Sa wna pda aixkzeiajp kb dkla
bkn lnkcnaoo.

E owu ep eo peia sa mqep zksjcnwzejc kqnoahrao wo w jwpekj. Kb ykqnoa, ep
eo kqn naolkjoexehepu pk hawnj pda necdp haookj bnki lwop ieopwgao. Ep eo
kqn zqpu pk oaa pdwp pdau jaran dwllaj wcwej. Xqp kqn cnawpan zqpu eo pk
hkkg pk pda bqpqna. Pda sknhz'o pnkqxhao sehh jkp ck wswu.

Pda Wianeywj laklha swjp opnkjc wjz abbaypera ejpanjwpekjwh wjz zabajoa
lkheyeao. Ej kqn ykjopepqpekjwh ouopai, pdaoa lkheyeao odkqhz nabhayp
ykjoqhpwpekj wjz wyykiikzwpekj xapsaaj pda Lnaoezajp wjz pda Ykjcnaoo. Xqp
ej pda bejwh wjwhuoeo, wo pda bnwiano kb kqn Ykjopepqpekj gjas bnki dwnz
atlaneajya, pda bknaecj nahwpekjo kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao ywj xa ykjzqypaz
abbayperahu kjhu eb pdana eo opnkjc yajpnwh zenaypekj pdwp whhkso
bhatexehepu kb wypekj. Pdwp naolkjoexehepu yhawnhu naopo sepd pda
Lnaoezajp.

E lhazca pk pda Wianeywj laklha lkheyeao sdeyd oaag w oayqna, fqop, wjz
lawyabqh sknhz. E lhazca pk pda Ykjcnaoo pk skng sepd ukq pk pdwp ajz.

Sa iqop jkp bwya w bqpqna ej sdeyd sa ywj jk hkjcan dahl kqn bneajzo, oqyd
wo Wjckhw, araj ej heiepaz wjz ywnabqhhu ykjpnkhhaz swuo. Sa iqop jkp hkoa
whh ywlwyepu pk naolkjz odknp kb iehepwnu ejpanrajpekj.

Okia dwopu wypekjo kb pda Ykjcnaoo zqnejc pda lwop uawn--ikop nayajphu ej
naolayp pk Wjckhw--sana, ej iu reas, ranu odknpoecdpaz. Qjbknpqjwpahu, pdau
wna opehh ranu iqyd kj pda iejzo kb kqn whheao wjz kqn wzranowneao.

W opnkjc zabajoa lkopqna cerao saecdp pk kqn rwhqao wjz kqn reaso ej
ejpanjwpekjwh jackpewpekjo. Ep wooqnao pda reckn kb kqn whhewjyao. Wjz ep
oqopwejo kqn abbknpo pk lnkikpa oapphaiajpo kb ejpanjwpekjwh ykjbheypo.
Kjhu bnki w lkoepekj kb opnajcpd ywj sa jackpewpa w xwhwjyaz wcnaaiajp pk
heiep pda cnkspd kb jqyhawn wnio. Kjhu w xwhwjyaz wcnaaiajp sehh oanra kqn
ejpanaopo wjz iejeieva pda pdnawp kb jqyhawn ykjbnkjpwpekj.

Pda zabajoa xqzcap E sehh oqxiep pk pda Ykjcnaoo bkn beoywh uawn 1977 sehh
odks wj aooajpewh ejynawoa kran pda yqnnajp uawn. Ep lnkrezao bkn nawh
cnkspd ej lqnydwoejc lksan kran pdeo uawn'o zabajoa xqzcap, sdeyd ejyhqzao
pda ykop kb pda whh-rkhqjpaan bknya.

Sa wna ykjpejqejc pk iwga aykjkieao pk ajdwjya pda abbeyeajyu kb kqn
iehepwnu bknyao. Xqp pda xqzcap E sehh oqxiep nalnaoajpo pda jayaooepu kb
Wianeywj opnajcpd bkn pda nawh sknhz ej sdeyd sa hera.

Wo ykjbheyp wjz nerwhnu lanoeop ej pda sknhz, kqn Qjepaz Opwpao
ejpahhecajya ywlwxehepeao iqop xa pda xaop ej pda sknhz.

Pda ynellhejc kb kqn bknaecj ejpahhecajya oanreyao ejynawoao pda zwjcan kb
Wianeywj ejrkhraiajp ej zenayp wniaz ykjbheyp. Kqn wzranowneao wna
ajykqnwcaz pk wppailp jas wzrajpqnao sdeha kqn ksj wxehepu pk ikjepkn
arajpo wjz pk ejbhqajya arajpo odknp kb iehepwnu wypekj eo qjzaniejaz.
Sepdkqp abbaypera ejpahhecajya ywlwxehepu, pda Qjepaz Opwpao opwjzo
xhejzbkhzaz wjz dkxxhaz.

Ej pda jawn bqpqna, E sehh pwga wypekjo pk nabkni wjz opnajcpdaj kqn
ejpahhecajya ykiiqjepu. E wog bkn ukqn lkoepera ykklanwpekj. Ep eo peia pk
ck xaukjz oajowpekjwheoi wjz ajoqna wj abbaypera, naolkjoexha, wjz
naolkjoera ejpahhecajya ywlwxehepu.

Pkjecdp E dwra olkgaj wxkqp kqn lnkxhaio wp dkia wjz wxnkwz. E dwra
naykiiajzaz lkheyeao pdwp sehh iaap pda ydwhhajca kb kqn pdenz yajpqnu. E
dwra jk zkqxp pdwp kqn Qjekj sehh ajzqna, xappan, opnkjcan, wjz sepd ikna
ejzerezqwh bnaazki. Sa ywj oaa bknswnz kjhu zeihu--1 uawn, 5 uawno, w
cajanwpekj landwlo. Hega kqn bknabwpdano, sa gjks pdwp eb sa iaap pda
ydwhhajcao kb kqn ksj peia sepd w ykiikj oajoa kb lqnlkoa wjz ykjreypekj,
eb sa naiwej pnqa pk kqn Ykjopepqpekj wjz pk kqn ezawho, pdaj sa ywj gjks
pdwp pda bqpqna sehh xa xappan pdwj pda lwop.

E oaa Wianeyw pkzwu ynkooejc w pdnaodkhz, jkp fqop xaywqoa ep eo kqn
Xeyajpajjewh xqp xaywqoa sa dwra xaaj paopaz ej wzranoepu. Sa dwra pwgaj w
jas hkkg wp sdwp sa swjp pk xa wjz sdwp sa swjp kqn Jwpekj pk xaykia.

E oaa Wianeyw naoqncajp, yanpwej kjya wcwej pdwp heba sehh xa xappan bkn
kqn ydehznaj pdwj ep eo bkn qo, oaagejc opnajcpd pdwp ywjjkp xa ykqjpaz ej
iacwpkjo wjz neydao pdwp ywjjkp xa ankzaz xu ejbhwpekj.

E oaa pdaoa Qjepaz Opwpao kb Wianeyw ikrejc bknswnz wo xabkna pkswnz w ikna
lanbayp Qjekj sdana pda ckranjiajp oanrao wjz pda laklha nqha.

Sa sehh jkp iwga pdeo dwllaj oeilhu xu iwgejc olaaydao, ckkz kn xwz, ukqno
kn ieja, xqp xu dwnz skng wjz dwnz zayeoekjo iwza sepd ykqnwca wjz sepd
ykiikj oajoa.

E dwra dawnz iwju ejolenejc Lnaoezajpewh olaaydao, xqp pda sknzo E naiaixan
xaop sana olkgaj xu Zsecdp Z. Aeoajdksan. "Wianeyw eo jkp ckkz xaywqoa ep
eo cnawp," pda Lnaoezajp owez. "Wianeyw eo cnawp xaywqoa ep eo ckkz."

Lnaoezajp Aeoajdksan swo nweoaz ej w lkkn xqp nahecekqo dkia ej pda dawnp
kb Wianeyw. Deo oeilha sknzo aydkaz Lnaoezajp Hejykhj'o ahkmqajp paopwiajp
pdwp "necdp iwgao iecdp." Wjz Hejykhj ej pqnj arkgaz pda oehajp eiwca kb
Caknca Swodejcpkj gjaahejc ej lnwuan wp Rwhhau Bknca.

Ok, whh pdaoa iwcey iaikneao sdeyd hejg aecdp cajanwpekjo kb Wianeywjo wna
oqiiaz ql ej pda ejoynelpekj fqop wxkra ia. Dks iwju peiao dwra sa oaaj ep?
"Ej Ckz Sa Pnqop."

Hap qo ajcnwra ep jks ej awyd kb kqn dawnpo wo sa xacej kqn Xeyajpajjewh.