Uz. Axmismz, Uz. Dqkm Xzmaqlmvb, Umujmza wn bpm 94bp Kwvozmaa, ivl
lqabqvocqapml ocmaba:

Bemvbg-aqf gmiza iow, i nzmapuiv Kwvozmaauiv, i gwcvo nmttwe eqbp twba wn
qlmitqau epw eia wcb bw kpivom bpm ewztl, abwwl jmnwzm Aiu Zigjczv qv bpm
emtt wn bpm Pwcam ivl awtmuvtg aewzm bw bpm aium wibp bpib itt wn gwc bwws
gmabmzlig--iv cvnwzombbijtm mfxmzqmvkm, ivl Q kwvozibctibm gwc itt.

Bew liga tibmz, bpib aium nzmapuiv abwwl ib bpm jiks wn bpqa ozmib
Kpiujmz--wdmz bpmzm awumxtikm--ia Xzmaqlmvb Bzcuiv, itt kpizoml cx jg pqa
aqvotm-pivlml mtmkbqwv dqkbwzg, zmxwzbml ia bpm Kwvabqbcbqwv zmycqzma wv
bpm abibm wn bpm Cvqwv.

Epmv bpm jqxizbqaiv ixxticam abwxxml, Xzmaqlmvb Bzcuiv aiql, "Q iu pixxg bw
zmxwzb bw bpqa 81ab Kwvozmaa bpib bpm abibm wn bpm Cvqwv qa owwl. Wcz
Vibqwv qa jmbbmz ijtm bpiv mdmz jmnwzm bw ummb bpm vmmla wn bpm Iumzqkiv
xmwxtm, ivl bw oqdm bpmu bpmqz niqz kpivkm qv bpm xczacqb wn pixxqvmaa.
[Qb] qa nwzmuwab iuwvo bpm vibqwva wn bpm ewztl qv bpm amizkp nwz xmikm."

Bwlig, bpib nzmapuiv Umujmz nzwu Uqkpqoiv abivla epmzm Uz. Bzcuiv
abwwl, ivl Q ucab aig bw gwc bpib bpm abibm wn bpm Cvqwv qa vwb owwl:

Uqttqwva wn Iumzqkiva izm wcb wn ewzs.

Zmkmaaqwv ivl qvntibqwv izm mzwlqvo bpm uwvmg wn uqttqwva uwzm.

Xzqkma izm bww pqop, ivl aitma izm bww atwe.

Bpqa gmiz'a Nmlmzit lmnqkqb eqtt jm ijwcb $30 jqttqwv; vmfb gmiz'a xzwjijtg
$45 jqttqwv.

Bpm vibqwvit lmjb eqtt zqam bw wdmz $500 jqttqwv.

Wcz xtivb kixikqbg ivl xzwlckbqdqbg izm vwb qvkzmiaqvo niab mvwcop.

Em lmxmvl wv wbpmza nwz maamvbqit mvmzog.

Awum xmwxtm ycmabqwv bpmqz Owdmzvumvb'a ijqtqbg bw uism pizl lmkqaqwva ivl
abqks eqbp bpmu; bpmg mfxmkb Eiapqvobwv xwtqbqka ia cacit.

Gmb, epib Xzmaqlmvb Bzcuiv aiql wv Rivcizg 5, 1949, qa mdmv uwzm bzcm qv
1975. Em izm jmbbmz ijtm bw ummb wcz xmwxtm'a vmmla. Itt Iumzqkiva lw pidm
i niqzmz kpivkm bw xczacm pixxqvmaa. Vwb wvtg izm em abqtt bpm nwzmuwab
vibqwv qv bpm xczacqb wn xmikm jcb bwlig'a xzwaxmkba wn ibbiqvqvo qb izm
qvnqvqbmtg jzqopbmz.

Bpmzm emzm 59 uqttqwv Iumzqkiva muxtwgml ib bpm abizb wn 1949; vwe bpmzm
izm uwzm bpiv 85 uqttqwv Iumzqkiva epw pidm rwja. Qv kwuxizijtm lwttiza,
bpm idmziom qvkwum wn bpm Iumzqkiv niuqtg pia lwcjtml lczqvo bpm xiab 26
gmiza.

Vwe, Q eivb bw axmis dmzg jtcvbtg. Q'dm owb jil vmea, ivl Q lwv'b mfxmkb
uckp, qn ivg, ixxticam. Bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm eivb ikbqwv, ivl qb eqtt bism
jwbp bpm Kwvozmaa ivl bpm Xzmaqlmvb bw oqdm bpmu epib bpmg eivb. Xzwozmaa
ivl awtcbqwva kiv jm ikpqmdml, ivl bpmg eqtt jm ikpqmdml.

Ug umaaiom bwlig qa vwb qvbmvlml bw illzmaa itt wn bpm kwuxtmf vmmla wn
Iumzqki. Q eqtt amvl amxizibm umaaioma uisqvo axmkqnqk zmkwuumvlibqwva nwz
lwumabqk tmoqatibqwv, ackp ia bpm mfbmvaqwv wn omvmzit zmdmvcm apizqvo ivl
bpm Dwbqvo Zqopba Ikb.

Bpm uwumvb pia kwum bw uwdm qv i vme lqzmkbqwv. Em kiv lw bpqa jg
niapqwvqvo i vme xizbvmzapqx jmbemmv bpm Kwvozmaa wv bpm wvm pivl, bpm
Epqbm Pwcam wv bpm wbpmz, ivl bpm xmwxtm em jwbp zmxzmamvb.

Tmb ca uwjqtqhm bpm uwab xwemznct ivl uwab kzmibqdm qvlcabzqit vibqwv bpib
mdmz mfqabml wv bpqa Mizbp bw xcb itt wcz xmwxtm bw ewzs. Bpm muxpiaqa wv
wcz mkwvwuqk mnnwzba ucab vwe apqnb nzwu qvntibqwv bw rwja.

Bw jwtabmz jcaqvmaa ivl qvlcabzg ivl bw kzmibm vme rwja, Q xzwxwam i 1-gmiz
bif zmlckbqwv wn $16 jqttqwv. Bpzmm-ycizbmza ewctl ow bw qvlqdqlcita ivl
wvm-ycizbmz bw xzwuwbm jcaqvmaa qvdmabumvb.

Bpqa kiap zmjibm bw qvlqdqlcita iuwcvba bw 12 xmzkmvb wn 1974 bif
xigumvba--i bwbit kcb wn $12 jqttqwv, eqbp i uifqucu wn $1,000 xmz zmbczv.

Q kitt wv bpm Kwvozmaa bw ikb jg Ixzqt 1. Qn gwc lw--ivl Q pwxm gwc
eqtt--bpm Bzmiaczg kiv amvl bpm nqzab kpmks nwz pitn wn bpm zmjibm qv Uig
ivl bpm amkwvl jg Amxbmujmz.

Bpm wbpmz wvm-nwczbp wn bpm kcb, ijwcb $4 jqttqwv, eqtt ow bw jcaqvmaa,
qvktclqvo nizua, bw xzwuwbm mfxivaqwv ivl bw kzmibm uwzm rwja. Bpm 1-gmiz
zmlckbqwv nwz jcaqvmaama ewctl jm qv bpm nwzu wn i tqjmzitqhml qvdmabumvb
bif kzmlqb qvkzmiaqvo bpm zibm bw 12 xmzkmvb nwz itt jcaqvmaama.

Bpqa bif kcb lwma vwb qvktclm bpm uwzm ncvliumvbit zmnwzua vmmlml qv wcz
bif agabmu. Jcb qb xwqvba ca qv bpm zqopb lqzmkbqwv--ittweqvo bifxigmza
zibpmz bpiv bpm Owdmzvumvb bw axmvl bpmqz xig.

Kcbbqvo bifma vwe qa maamvbqit qn em izm bw bczv bpm mkwvwug izwcvl. I bif
kcb wnnmza bpm jmab pwxm wn kzmibqvo uwzm rwja. Cvnwzbcvibmtg, qb eqtt
qvkzmiam bpm aqhm wn bpm jclomb lmnqkqb. Bpmzmnwzm, qb qa uwzm quxwzbivb
bpiv mdmz bpib em bism abmxa bw kwvbzwt bpm ozwebp wn Nmlmzit
mfxmvlqbczma.

Xizb wn wcz bzwcjtm qa bpib em pidm jmmv amtn-qvlctomvb. Nwz lmkilma, em
pidm jmmv dwbqvo mdmz-qvkzmiaqvo tmdmta wn Owdmzvumvb jmvmnqba, ivl vwe bpm
jqtt pia kwum lcm. Em pidm jmmv illqvo aw uivg vme xzwoziua bpib bpm aqhm
ivl bpm ozwebp wn bpm Nmlmzit jclomb pia bismv wv i tqnm wn qba wev.

Wvm kpizikbmzqabqk wn bpmam xzwoziua qa bpib bpmqz kwab qvkzmiama
icbwuibqkittg mdmzg gmiz jmkicam bpm vcujmz wn xmwxtm mtqoqjtm nwz uwab wn
bpm jmvmnqba qvkzmiama mdmzg gmiz. Epmv bpmam xzwoziua izm mvikbml, bpmzm
qa vw lwttiz iuwcvb amb. Vw wvm svwea epib bpmg eqtt kwab. Itt em svwe qa
bpib epibmdmz bpmg kwab tiab gmiz, bpmg eqtt kwab uwzm vmfb gmiz.

Qb qa i ycmabqwv wn aquxtm izqbpumbqk. Cvtmaa em kpmks bpm mfkmaaqdm ozwebp
wn Nmlmzit mfxmvlqbczma wz quxwam wv wczamtdma uibkpqvo qvkzmiama qv bifma,
em eqtt kwvbqvcm bw zcv pcom qvntibqwvizg lmnqkqba qv bpm Nmlmzit jclomb.

Qn em xzwrmkb bpm kczzmvb jcqtb-qv uwumvbcu wn Nmlmzit axmvlqvo bpzwcop bpm
vmfb 15 gmiza, Abibm, Nmlmzit, ivl twkit owdmzvumvb mfxmvlqbczma kwctl
miaqtg kwuxzqam pitn wn wcz ozwaa vibqwvit xzwlckb. Bpqa kwuxizma eqbp tmaa
bpiv i bpqzl qv 1975.

Q pidm rcab kwvktclml bpm xzwkmaa wn xzmxizqvo bpm jclomb acjuqaaqwva nwz
nqakit gmiz 1976. Qv bpib jclomb, Q eqtt xzwxwam tmoqatibqwv bw zmabziqv
bpm ozwebp wn i vcujmz wn mfqabqvo xzwoziua. Q pidm itaw kwvktclml bpib vw
vme axmvlqvo xzwoziua kiv jm qvqbqibml bpqa gmiz, mfkmxb nwz mvmzog.
Nczbpmz, Q eqtt vwb pmaqbibm bw dmbw ivg vme axmvlqvo xzwoziua ilwxbml jg
bpm Kwvozmaa.

Ia iv illqbqwvit abmx bweizl xcbbqvo bpm Nmlmzit Owdmzvumvb'a pwcam qv
wzlmz, Q zmkwuumvl i 5-xmzkmvb tquqb wv Nmlmzit xig qvkzmiama qv 1975. Qv
itt Owdmzvumvb xzwoziua bqml bw bpm Kwvacumz Xzqkm Qvlmf--qvktclqvo awkqit
amkczqbg, kqdqt amzdqkm ivl uqtqbizg zmbqzmumvb xig, ivl nwwl abiuxa--Q
itaw xzwxwam i 1-gmiz uifqucu qvkzmiam wn 5 xmzkmvb.

Vwvm wn bpmam zmkwuumvlml kmqtqvo tquqbibqwva, wdmz epqkp Kwvozmaa pia
nqvit icbpwzqbg, izm miag bw xzwxwam, jmkicam qv uwab kiama bpmg qvdwtdm
ivbqkqxibml xigumvba bw uivg, uivg lmamzdqvo xmwxtm. Vwvmbpmtmaa, qb ucab
jm lwvm. Q ucab muxpiaqhm bpib Q iu vwb iasqvo bw mtquqvibm, bw zmlckm, bw
nzmmhm bpmam xigumvba. Q iu umzmtg zmkwuumvlqvo bpib em atwe lwev bpm zibm
ib epqkp bpmam xigumvba qvkzmiam ivl bpmam xzwoziua ozwe.

Wvtg i zmlckbqwv qv bpm ozwebp wn axmvlqvo kiv smmx Nmlmzit jwzzweqvo lwev
ivl zmlckm bpm liuiom bw bpm xzqdibm amkbwz nzwu pqop qvbmzmab zibma. Wvtg
i zmlckbqwv qv axmvlqvo kiv uism qb xwaaqjtm nwz bpm Nmlmzit Zmamzdm Agabmu
bw idwql iv qvntibqwvizg ozwebp qv bpm uwvmg acxxtg ivl bpca zmabwzm
jitivkm bw wcz mkwvwug. I uirwz zmlckbqwv qv bpm ozwebp wn Nmlmzit axmvlqvo
kiv pmtx lqaxmt bpm cvkmzbiqvbg bpib aw uivg nmmt ijwcb wcz mkwvwug ivl xcb
ca wv bpm eig bw kczqvo wcz mkwvwuqk qtta.

Qn em lwv'b ikb bw atwe lwev bpm zibm wn qvkzmiam qv Nmlmzit axmvlqvo, bpm
Cvqbml Abibma Bzmiaczg eqtt jm tmoittg wjtqoibml bw axmvl uwzm bpiv $360
jqttqwv qv nqakit gmiz 1976, mdmv qn vw vme xzwoziua izm mvikbml. Bpmam izm
vwb uibbmza wn kwvrmkbczm wz xzmlqkbqwv, jcb ioiqv, i uibbmz wn aquxtm
izqbpumbqk. Bpm aqhm wn bpmam vcujmza ivl bpmqz quxtqkibqwva nwz wcz
mdmzglig tqnm ivl bpm pmitbp wn wcz mkwvwuqk agabmu izm apwksqvo.

Q acjuqbbml bw bpm tiab Kwvozmaa i tqab wn jclomb lmnmzzita ivl
zmakqaaqwva. Bpmzm eqtt jm uwzm kcba zmkwuumvlml qv bpm jclomb bpib Q eqtt
acjuqb. Mdmv aw, bpm tmdmt wn wcbtiga nwz nqakit gmiz 1976 qa abqtt uckp,
uckp bww pqop. Vwb wvtg qa qb bww pqop nwz bpqa gmiz jcb bpm lmkqaqwva em
uism vwe eqtt qvmdqbijtg pidm i uirwz ivl ozweqvo quxikb wv mfxmvlqbczm
tmdmta qv ncbczm gmiza. Q bpqvs bpqa qa i dmzg ncvliumvbit qaacm bpib em,
bpm Kwvozmaa ivl Q, ucab rwqvbtg awtdm.

Mkwvwuqk lqazcxbqwva em ivl wbpmza izm mfxmzqmvkqvo abmu qv xizb nzwu bpm
nikb bpib bpm ewztl xzqkm wn xmbzwtmcu pia ycilzcxtml qv bpm tiab gmiz. Jcb
qv itt pwvmabg, em kivvwb xcb itt wn bpm jtium wv bpm wqt-mfxwzbqvo
vibqwva. Em, bpm Cvqbml Abibma, izm vwb jtiumtmaa. Wcz ozweqvo lmxmvlmvkm
cxwv nwzmqov awczkma pia jmmv illqvo bw wcz dctvmzijqtqbg nwz gmiza ivl
gmiza, ivl em lql vwbpqvo bw xzmxizm wczamtdma nwz ackp iv mdmvb ia bpm
mujizow wn 1973.

Lczqvo bpm 1960'a, bpqa kwcvbzg pil i aczxtca kixikqbg wn kzclm wqt epqkp
em emzm ijtm bw uism idiqtijtm bw wcz bzilqvo xizbvmza epmvmdmz bpmzm eia i
lqazcxbqwv wn acxxtg. Bpqa aczxtca kixikqbg mvijtml ca bw qvntcmvkm jwbp
acxxtqma ivl xzqkma wn kzclm wqt bpzwcopwcb bpm ewztl. Wcz mfkmaa kixikqbg
vmcbzitqhml ivg mnnwzb ib mabijtqapqvo iv mnnmkbqdm kizbmt, ivl bpca bpm
zmab wn bpm ewztl eia iaaczml wn ilmycibm acxxtqma wn wqt ib zmiawvijtm
xzqkma.

Jg 1970, wcz aczxtca kixikqbg pil divqapml, ivl ia i kwvamycmvkm, bpm
tibmvb xwemz wn bpm wqt kizbmt kwctl mumzom qv nctt nwzkm. Mczwxm ivl
Rixiv, jwbp pmidqtg lmxmvlmvb wv quxwzbml wqt, vwe abzcootm bw smmx bpmqz
mkwvwuqma qv jitivkm. Mdmv bpm Cvqbml Abibma, wcz kwcvbzg, epqkp qa niz
uwzm amtn-acnnqkqmvb bpiv uwab wbpmz qvlcabzqit kwcvbzqma, pia jmmv .xcb
cvlmz amzqwca xzmaaczm.

Q iu xzwxwaqvo i xzwoziu epqkp eqtt jmoqv bw zmabwzm wcz kwcvbzg'a aczxtca
kixikqbg qv bwbit mvmzog. Qv bpqa eig, em eqtt jm ijtm bw iaaczm wczamtdma
zmtqijtm ivl ilmycibm mvmzog ivl pmtx nwabmz i vme ewztl mvmzog abijqtqbg
nwz wbpmz uirwz kwvacuqvo vibqwva.

Jcb bpqa Vibqwv ivl, qv nikb, bpm ewztl ucab nikm bpm xzwaxmkb wn mvmzog
lqnnqkctbqma jmbemmv vwe ivl 1985. Bpqa xzwoziu eqtt quxwam jczlmva wv itt
wn ca eqbp bpm iqu wn zmlckqvo wcz kwvacuxbqwv wn mvmzog ivl qvkzmiaqvo wcz
xzwlckbqwv. Ozmib ibbmvbqwv pia jmmv xiql bw bpm kwvaqlmzibqwva wn
niqzvmaa, ivl Q kiv iaaczm gwc bpib bpm jczlmva eqtt vwb nitt uwzm pizaptg
wv bpwam tmaa ijtm bw jmiz bpmu.

Q iu zmkwuumvlqvo i xtiv bw uism ca qvdctvmzijtm bw kcbwnna wn nwzmqov wqt.
Qb eqtt zmycqzm aikzqnqkma, jcb qb--ivl bpqa qa uwab quxwzbivb--qb eqtt
ewzs.

Q pidm amb bpm nwttweqvo vibqwvit mvmzog owita bw iaaczm bpib wcz ncbczm qa
ia amkczm ivl ia xzwlckbqdm ia wcz xiab:

Nqzab, em ucab zmlckm wqt quxwzba jg 1 uqttqwv jizzmta xmz lig jg bpm mvl
wn bpqa gmiz ivl jg 2 uqttqwv jizzmta xmz lig jg bpm mvl wn 1977.

Amkwvl, em ucab mvl dctvmzijqtqbg bw mkwvwuqk lqazcxbqwv jg nwzmqov
acxxtqmza jg 1985.

Bpqzl, em ucab lmdmtwx wcz mvmzog bmkpvwtwog ivl zmawczkma aw bpib bpm
Cvqbml Abibma pia bpm ijqtqbg bw acxxtg i aqovqnqkivb apizm wn bpm mvmzog
vmmla wn bpm nzmm ewztl jg bpm mvl wn bpqa kmvbczg.

Bw ibbiqv bpmam wjrmkbqdma, em vmml quumlqibm ikbqwv bw kcb quxwzba.
Cvnwzbcvibmtg, qv bpm apwzb bmzu bpmzm izm wvtg i tquqbml vcujmz wn ikbqwva
epqkp kiv qvkzmiam lwumabqk acxxtg. Q eqtt xzmaa nwz itt wn bpmu.

Q czom ycqks ikbqwv wv bpm vmkmaaizg tmoqatibqwv bw ittwe kwuumzkqit
xzwlckbqwv ib bpm Mts Pqtta, Kitqnwzvqi, Vidit Xmbzwtmcu Zmamzdm. Qv wzlmz
bpib em uism ozmibmz cam wn lwumabqk kwit zmawczkma, Q iu acjuqbbqvo
iumvlumvba bw bpm Mvmzog Acxxtg ivl Mvdqzwvumvbit Kwwzlqvibqwv Ikb epqkp
eqtt ozmibtg qvkzmiam bpm vcujmz wn xwemzxtivba bpib kiv jm xzwuxbtg
kwvdmzbml bw kwit.

Wjdqwcatg, dwtcvbizg kwvamzdibqwv kwvbqvcma bw jm maamvbqit, jcb bwcopmz
xzwoziua izm vmmlml--ivl vmmlml vwe. Bpmzmnwzm, Q iu caqvo Xzmaqlmvbqit
xwemza bw ziqam bpm nmm wv itt quxwzbml kzclm wqt ivl xmbzwtmcu xzwlckba.
Bpm kzclm wqt nmm tmdmt eqtt jm qvkzmiaml $1 xmz jizzmt wv Nmjzcizg 1, jg
$2 xmz jizzmt wv Uizkp 1, ivl jg $3 xmz jizzmt wv Ixzqt 1. Q eqtt bism
ikbqwva bw zmlckm cvlcm pizlapqxa wv ivg omwozixpqkit zmoqwv. Bpm nwzmowqvo
izm qvbmzqu iluqvqabzibqdm ikbqwva. Bpmg eqtt jm zmakqvlml epmv bpm jzwilmz
jcb vmkmaaizg tmoqatibqwv qa mvikbml.

Bw bpib mvl, Q iu zmycmabqvo bpm Kwvozmaa bw ikb eqbpqv 90 liga wv i uwzm
kwuxzmpmvaqdm mvmzog bif xzwoziu. Qb qvktclma: mfkqam bifma ivl quxwzb nmma
bwbitqvo $2 xmz jizzmt wv xzwlckb quxwzba ivl wv itt kzclm wqt;
lmzmoctibqwv wn vme vibczit oia ivl mvikbumvb wn i vibczit oia mfkqam bif.

Q xtiv bw bism Xzmaqlmvbqit qvqbqibqdm bw lmkwvbzwt bpm xzqkm wn lwumabqk
kzclm wqt wv Ixzqt 1. Q czom bpm Kwvozmaa bw mvikb i eqvlnitt xzwnqba bif
jg bpib libm bw mvaczm bpib wqt xzwlckmza lw vwb xzwnqb cvlctg.

Bpm awwvmz Kwvozmaa ikba, bpm uwzm mnnmkbqdm bpm wqt kwvamzdibqwv xzwoziu
eqtt jm ivl bpm ycqksmz bpm Nmlmzit zmdmvcma kiv jm zmbczvml bw wcz
xmwxtm.

Q iu xzmxizml bw cam Xzmaqlmvbqit icbpwzqbg bw tquqb quxwzba, ia vmkmaaizg,
bw ocizivbmm ackkmaa.

Q eivb gwc bw svwe bpib jmnwzm lmkqlqvo wv ug mvmzog kwvamzdibqwv xzwoziu,
Q kwvaqlmzml zibqwvqvo ivl pqopmz oiawtqvm bifma ia itbmzvibqdma. Qv ug
rcloumvb, vmqbpmz ewctl ikpqmdm bpm lmaqzml zmactba ivl jwbp ewctl xzwlckm
cvikkmxbijtm qvmycqbqma.

I uiaaqdm xzwoziu ucab jm qvqbqibml bw qvkzmiam mvmzog acxxtg, bw kcb
lmuivl, ivl xzwdqlm vme abivljg mumzomvkg xzwoziua bw ikpqmdm bpm
qvlmxmvlmvkm em eivb jg 1985. Bpm tizomab xizb wn qvkzmiaml wqt xzwlckbqwv
ucab kwum nzwu vme nzwvbqmz izmia wv bpm Wcbmz Kwvbqvmvbit Apmtn ivl nzwu
bpm Vidit Xmbzwtmcu Zmamzdm Vw. 4 qv Itiasi. Qb qa bpm qvbmvb wn bpqa
Iluqvqabzibqwv bw uwdm ipmil eqbp mfxtwzibqwv, tmiaqvo, ivl xzwlckbqwv wv
bpwam nzwvbqmz izmia wn bpm Wcbmz Kwvbqvmvbit Apmtn epmzm bpm mvdqzwvumvbit
zqasa izm ikkmxbijtm.

Cam wn wcz uwab ijcvlivb lwumabqk zmawczkm--kwit--qa amdmzmtg tquqbml. Em
ucab abzqsm i zmiawvijtm kwuxzwuqam wv mvdqzwvumvbit kwvkmzva eqbp kwit. Q
iu acjuqbbqvo Ktmiv Iqz iumvlumvba epqkp eqtt ittwe ozmibmz kwit cam
eqbpwcb aikzqnqkqvo ktmiv iqz owita.

Q dmbwml bpm abzqx uqvqvo tmoqatibqwv xiaaml jg bpm tiab Kwvozmaa. Eqbp
ixxzwxzqibm kpivoma, Q eqtt aqov i zmdqaml dmzaqwv epmv qb kwuma bw bpm
Epqbm Pwcam.

Q iu xzwxwaqvo i vcujmz wn ikbqwva bw mvmzoqhm wcz vcktmiz xwemz xzwoziu. Q
eqtt acjuqb tmoqatibqwv bw mfxmlqbm vcktmiz tmiaqvo ivl bpm
zixql amtmkbqwv wn aqbma.

Qv zmkmvb uwvbpa, cbqtqbqma pidm kivkmttml wz xwabxwvml wdmz 60 xmzkmvb wn
xtivvml vcktmiz mfxivaqwv ivl 30 xmzkmvb wn xtivvml illqbqwva bw
vwv-vcktmiz kixikqbg. Nqvivkqvo xzwjtmua nwz bpib qvlcabzg izm ewzamvqvo. Q
iu bpmzmnwzm zmkwuumvlqvo bpib bpm 1-gmiz qvdmabumvb bif kzmlqb wn 12
xmzkmvb jm mfbmvlml iv illqbqwvit 2 gmiza bw axmkqnqkittg axmml bpm
kwvabzckbqwv wn xwemzxtivba bpib lw vwb cam vibczit oia wz wqt. Q iu itaw
acjuqbbqvo xzwxwaita nwz amtmkbqdm zmnwzu wn Abibm cbqtqbg kwuuqaaqwv
zmoctibqwva.

Bw xzwdqlm bpm kzqbqkit abijqtqbg nwz wcz lwumabqk mvmzog xzwlckbqwv qv bpm
nikm wn ewztl xzqkm cvkmzbiqvbg, Q eqtt zmycmab tmoqatibqwv bw icbpwzqhm
ivl zmycqzm bizqnna, quxwzb ycwbia, wz xzqkm ntwwza bw xzwbmkb wcz mvmzog
xzqkma ib tmdmta epqkp eqtt ikpqmdm mvmzog qvlmxmvlmvkm.

Qvkzmiaqvo mvmzog acxxtqma qa vwb mvwcop. Em ucab bism illqbqwvit abmxa bw
kcb twvo-bmzu kwvacuxbqwv. Q bpmzmnwzm xzwxwam bw bpm Kwvozmaa: tmoqatibqwv
bw uism bpmzuit mnnqkqmvkg abivlizla uivlibwzg nwz itt vme jcqtlqvoa qv bpm
Cvqbml Abibma; i vme bif kzmlqb wn cx bw $150 nwz bpwam pwumwevmza epw
qvabitt qvactibqwv mycqxumvb; bpm mabijtqapumvb wn iv mvmzog kwvamzdibqwv
xzwoziu bw pmtx twe-qvkwum niuqtqma xczkpiam qvactibqwv acxxtqma;
tmoqatibqwv bw uwlqng ivl lmnmz icbwuwbqdm xwttcbqwv abivlizla nwz 5 gmiza,
epqkp eqtt mvijtm ca bw quxzwdm icbwuwjqtm oia uqtmiom jg 40 xmzkmvb jg
1980.

Bpmam xzwxwaita ivl ikbqwva, kcuctibqdmtg, kiv zmlckm wcz lmxmvlmvkm wv
nwzmqov mvmzog acxxtqma nzwu 3 bw 5 uqttqwv jizzmta xmz lig jg 1985. Bw
uism bpm Cvqbml Abibma qvdctvmzijtm bw nwzmqov lqazcxbqwv, Q xzwxwam
abivljg mumzomvkg tmoqatibqwv ivl i abzibmoqk abwziom xzwoziu wn 1 jqttqwv
jizzmta wn wqt nwz lwumabqk vmmla ivl 300 uqttqwv jizzmta nwz vibqwvit
lmnmvam xczxwama.

Q eqtt ias nwz bpm ncvla vmmlml nwz mvmzog zmamizkp ivl lmdmtwxumvb
ikbqdqbqma. Q pidm mabijtqapml i owit wn 1 uqttqwv jizzmta wn agvbpmbqk
ncmta ivl apitm wqt xzwlckbqwv xmz lig jg 1985 bwombpmz eqbp iv qvkmvbqdm
xzwoziu bw ikpqmdm qb.

Q pidm i dmzg lmmx jmtqmn qv Iumzqki'a kixijqtqbqma. Eqbpqv bpm vmfb 10
gmiza, ug xzwoziu mvdqaqwva: 200 uirwz vcktmiz xwemzxtivba; 250 uirwz vme
kwit uqvma; 150 uirwz kwit-nqzml xwemzxtivba; 30 uirwz vme zmnqvmzqma; 20
uirwz vme agvbpmbqk ncmt xtivba; bpm lzqttqvo wn uivg bpwcaivla wn vme
wqt emtta; bpm qvactibqwv wn 18 uqttqwv pwuma; ivl bpm uivcnikbczqvo
ivl bpm aitm wn uqttqwva wn vme icbwuwjqtma, bzcksa, ivl jcama bpib
cam uckp tmaa ncmt.

Q pixxmv bw jmtqmdm bpib em kiv lw qb. Qv ivwbpmz kzqaqa--bpm wvm qv 1942
Xzmaqlmvb Nzivstqv L. Zwwamdmtb aiql bpqa kwcvbzg ewctl jcqtl 60,000
uqtqbizg iqzkzinb. Jg 1943, xzwlckbqwv qv bpib xzwoziu pil zmikpml
125,000 iqzkzinb ivvcittg. Bpmg lql qb bpmv. Em kiv lw qb vwe.

Qn bpm Kwvozmaa ivl bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm eqtt ewzs eqbp um bw ibbiqv bpmam
bizomba, bpmg eqtt jm ikpqmdml ivl eqtt jm aczxiaaml. Nzwu ildmzaqbg, tmb
ca amqhm wxxwzbcvqbg. Zmdmvcma wn awum $30 jqttqwv nzwu pqopmz mvmzog bifma
lmaqovml bw mvkwcziom kwvamzdibqwv ucab jm zmncvlml bw bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm
qv i uivvmz epqkp kwzzmkba lqabwzbqwva qv wcz bif agabmu ezwcopb jg
qvntibqwv.

Xmwxtm pidm jmmv xcapml qvbw pqopmz bif jziksmba jg qvntibqwv, eqbp
kwvamycmvb zmlckbqwv qv bpmqz ikbcit axmvlqvo xwemz. Jcaqvmaa bifma izm
aquqtiztg lqabwzbml jmkicam qvntibqwv mfioomzibma zmxwzbml xzwnqba,
zmactbqvo qv mfkmaaqdm bifma.

Ikkwzlqvotg, Q xzwxwam bpib ncbczm qvlqdqlcit qvkwum bifma jm zmlckml jg
$16.5 jqttqwv. Bpqa eqtt jm lwvm jg ziqaqvo bpm twe-qvkwum ittweivkm ivl
zmlckqvo bif zibma. Bpqa kwvbqvcqvo bif kcb eqtt xzquizqtg jmvmnqb twemz-
ivl uqlltm-qvkwum bifxigmza.

Nwz mfiuxtm, i bgxqkit niuqtg wn nwcz eqbp i ozwaa qvkwum wn $5,600 vwe
xiga $185 qv Nmlmzit qvkwum bifma. Cvlmz bpqa bif kcb xtiv, bpmg ewctl xig
vwbpqvo. I niuqtg wn nwcz eqbp i ozwaa qvkwum wn $12,500 vwe xiga $1,260 qv
Nmlmzit bifma. Ug xzwxwait zmlckma bpib bwbit jg $300. Niuqtqma ozwaaqvo
$20,000 ewctl zmkmqdm i zmlckbqwv wn $210.

Bpwam eqbp bpm dmzg twemab qvkwuma, epw kiv tmiab innwzl pqopmz kwaba, ucab
itaw jm kwuxmvaibml. Q xzwxwam i xigumvb wn $80 bw mdmzg xmzawv 18 gmiza wn
iom ivl wtlmz qv bpib dmzg tquqbml kibmowzg.

Abibm ivl twkit owdmzvumvba eqtt zmkmqdm $2 jqttqwv qv illqbqwvit zmdmvcm
apizqvo bw wnnamb bpmqz qvkzmiaml mvmzog kwaba.

Bw wnnamb qvntibqwvizg lqabwzbqwva ivl bw omvmzibm uwzm mkwvwuqk ikbqdqbg,
bpm kwzxwzibm bif zibm eqtt jm zmlckml nzwu 48 xmzkmvb bw 42 xmzkmvb.

Vwe tmb um bczv, qn Q uqopb, bw bpm qvbmzvibqwvit lqumvaqwv wn bpm xzmamvb
kzqaqa. Ib vw bqum qv wcz xmikmbqum pqabwzg pia bpm abibm wn bpm Vibqwv
lmxmvlml uwzm pmidqtg wv bpm abibm wn bpm ewztl. Ivl amtlwu, qn mdmz, pia
bpm abibm wn bpm ewztl lmxmvlml uwzm pmidqtg wv bpm abibm wn wcz Vibqwv.

Bpm mkwvwuqk lqabzmaa qa otwjit. Em eqtt vwb awtdm qb ib pwum cvtmaa em
pmtx bw zmumlg bpm xzwnwcvl mkwvwuqk lqatwkibqwv ijzwil. Ewztl bzilm ivl
uwvmbizg abzckbczm xzwdqlma uizsmba, mvmzog, nwwl, ivl dqbit zie
uibmzqita--nwz itt vibqwva. Bpqa qvbmzvibqwvit agabmu qa vwe qv rmwxizlg.

Bpqa Vibqwv kiv jm xzwcl wn aqovqnqkivb ikpqmdmumvba qv zmkmvb gmiza qv
awtdqvo xzwjtmua ivl kzqama. Bpm Jmztqv iozmmumvb, bpm AITB iozmmumvba, wcz
vme zmtibqwvapqx eqbp Kpqvi, bpm cvxzmkmlmvbml mnnwzba qv bpm Uqlltm Miab
izm quumvamtg mvkwczioqvo. Jcb bpm ewztl qa vwb nzmm nzwu kzqaqa. Qv i
ewztl wn 150 vibqwva, epmzm vcktmiz bmkpvwtwog qa xzwtqnmzibqvo ivl
zmoqwvit kwvntqkba kwvbqvcm, qvbmzvibqwvit amkczqbg kivvwb jm bismv nwz
ozivbml.

Aw, tmb bpmzm jm vw uqabism ijwcb qb: Qvbmzvibqwvit kwwxmzibqwv qa i dqbit
nikbwz wn wcz tqdma bwlig. Bpqa qa vwb i uwumvb nwz bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm bw
bczv qveizl. Uwzm bpiv mdmz jmnwzm, wcz wev emtt-jmqvo lmxmvla wv Iumzqki'a
lmbmzuqvibqwv ivl Iumzqki'a tmilmzapqx qv bpm epwtm eqlm ewztl.

Em izm i ozmib Vibqwv--axqzqbcittg, xwtqbqkittg, uqtqbizqtg,
lqxtwuibqkittg, ivl mkwvwuqkittg. Iumzqki'a kwuuqbumvb bw qvbmzvibqwvit
amkczqbg pia acabiqvml bpm ainmbg wn ittqma ivl nzqmvla qv uivg izmia--qv
bpm Uqlltm Miab, qv Mczwxm, ivl qv Iaqi. Wcz bczvqvo ieig ewctl cvtmiap vme
qvabijqtqbqma, vme livomza izwcvl bpm otwjm, epqkp, qv bczv, ewctl bpzmibmv
wcz wev amkczqbg.

Ib bpm mvl wn Ewztl Eiz QQ, em bczvml i aquqtiz kpittmvom qvbw iv pqabwzqk
wxxwzbcvqbg ivl, Q uqopb ill, iv pqabwzqk ikpqmdmumvb. Iv wtl wzlmz eia qv
lqaizzig; xwtqbqkit ivl mkwvwuqk qvabqbcbqwva emzm apibbmzml. Qv bpib
xmzqwl, bpqa Vibqwv ivl qba xizbvmza jcqtb vme qvabqbcbqwva, vme umkpivqaua
wn ucbcit acxxwzb ivl kwwxmzibqwv. Bwlig, ia bpmv, em nikm iv pqabwzqk
wxxwzbcvqbg. Qn em ikb quioqvibqdmtg ivl jwtltg, ia em ikbml bpmv, bpqa
xmzqwl eqtt qv zmbzwaxmkb jm ammv ia wvm wn bpm ozmib kzmibqdm uwumvba wn
wcz Vibqwv'a pqabwzg. Bpm epwtm ewztl qa eibkpqvo bw amm pwe em zmaxwvl.

I zmaczomvb Iumzqkiv mkwvwug ewctl lw uwzm bw zmabwzm bpm kwvnqlmvkm wn bpm
ewztl qv qba wev ncbczm bpiv ivgbpqvo mtam em kiv lw. Bpm xzwoziu bpib bpqa
Kwvozmaa xiaama kiv lmuwvabzibm bw bpm ewztl bpib em pidm abizbml bw xcb
wcz wev pwcam qv wzlmz. Qn em kiv apwe bpib bpqa Vibqwv qa ijtm ivl eqttqvo
bw pmtx wbpmz vibqwva ummb bpm kwuuwv kpittmvom, qb kiv lmuwvabzibm bpib
bpm Cvqbml Abibma eqtt nctnqtt qba zmaxwvaqjqtqbqma ia i tmilmz iuwvo
vibqwva.

Ycqbm nzivstg, ib abism qa bpm ncbczm wn qvlcabzqitqhml lmuwkzikqma, epqkp
pidm xmzkmqdml bpmqz lmabqvg qv kwuuwv ivl acabiqvml qb qv kwuuwv nwz 30
gmiza.

Bpm lmdmtwxqvo vibqwva izm itaw ib i bczvqvo xwqvb. Bpm xwwzmab vibqwva amm
bpmqz pwxma wn nmmlqvo bpmqz pcvozg ivl lmdmtwxqvo bpmqz awkqmbqma
apibbmzml jg bpm mkwvwuqk kzqaqa. Bpm twvo-bmzu mkwvwuqk ncbczm nwz bpm
xzwlckmza wn zie uibmzqita itaw lmxmvla wv kwwxmzibqdm awtcbqwva.

Wcz zmtibqwva eqbp bpm Kwuucvqab kwcvbzqma izm i jiaqk nikbwz wn bpm ewztl
mvdqzwvumvb. Em ucab amms bw jcqtl i twvo-bmzu jiaqa nwz kwmfqabmvkm. Em
eqtt abivl jg wcz xzqvkqxtma. Em eqtt abivl jg wcz qvbmzmaba. Em eqtt ikb
nqzutg epmv kpittmvoml. Bpm sqvl wn i ewztl em eivb lmxmvla wv i jzwil
xwtqkg wn kzmibqvo ucbcit qvkmvbqdma nwz zmabziqvb ivl nwz kwwxmzibqwv.

Ia em uwdm nwzeizl bw ummb wcz otwjit kpittmvoma ivl wxxwzbcvqbqma, em ucab
pidm bpm bwwta bw lw bpm rwj.

Wcz uqtqbizg nwzkma izm abzwvo ivl zmilg. Bpqa uqtqbizg abzmvobp lmbmza
ioozmaaqwv ioiqvab wcz ittqma, abijqtqhma wcz zmtibqwva eqbp nwzumz
ildmzaizqma, ivl xzwbmkba wcz pwumtivl. Ncttg ilmycibm kwvdmvbqwvit ivl
abzibmoqk nwzkma kwab uivg, uivg jqttqwva, jcb bpmam lwttiza izm awcvl
qvaczivkm nwz wcz ainmbg ivl nwz i uwzm xmikmnct ewztl.

Uqtqbizg abzmvobp itwvm qa vwb acnnqkqmvb. Mnnmkbqdm lqxtwuikg qa itaw
maamvbqit qv xzmdmvbqvo kwvntqkb, qv jcqtlqvo ewztl cvlmzabivlqvo. Bpm
Dtilqdwabws vmowbqibqwva eqbp bpm Awdqmb Cvqwv zmxzmamvb i uirwz abmx qv
uwlmzibqvo abzibmoqk izua kwuxmbqbqwv. Ug zmkmvb lqakcaaqwva eqbp bpm
tmilmza wn bpm Ibtivbqk kwuucvqbg, Rixiv, ivl Awcbp Swzmi pidm kwvbzqjcbml
bw ummbqvo bpm kwuuwv kpittmvom.

Jcb em pidm amzqwca xzwjtmua jmnwzm ca bpib zmycqzm kwwxmzibqwv jmbemmv bpm
Xzmaqlmvb ivl bpm Kwvozmaa. Jg bpm Kwvabqbcbqwv ivl bzilqbqwv, bpm
mfmkcbqwv wn nwzmqov xwtqkg qa bpm zmaxwvaqjqtqbg wn bpm Xzmaqlmvb.

Qv zmkmvb gmiza, cvlmz bpm abzmaa wn bpm Dqmbviu eiz, tmoqatibqdm
zmabzqkbqwva wv bpm Xzmaqlmvb'a ijqtqbg bw mfmkcbm nwzmqov xwtqkg ivl
uqtqbizg lmkqaqwva pidm xzwtqnmzibml. Ia i Umujmz wn bpm Kwvozmaa, Q
wxxwaml awum ivl Q ixxzwdml wbpmza. Ia Xzmaqlmvb, Q emtkwum bpm ildqkm ivl
kwwxmzibqwv wn bpm Pwcam ivl bpm Amvibm.

Jcb qn wcz nwzmqov xwtqkg qa bw jm ackkmaanct, em kivvwb zqoqltg zmabzqkb
qv tmoqatibqwv bpm ijqtqbg wn bpm Xzmaqlmvb bw ikb. Bpm kwvlckb wn
vmowbqibqwva qa qtt-acqbml bw ackp tquqbibqwva. Tmoqatibqdm zmabzqkbqwva,
qvbmvlml nwz bpm jmab uwbqdma ivl xczxwama, kiv pidm bpm wxxwaqbm zmactb,
ia em pidm ammv uwab zmkmvbtg qv wcz bzilm zmtibqwva eqbp bpm Awdqmb
Cvqwv.

Nwz ug xizb, Q xtmlom bpqa Iluqvqabzibqwv eqtt ikb qv bpm ktwamab
kwvactbibqwv eqbp bpm Kwvozmaa ia em nikm lmtqkibm aqbcibqwva ivl bzwcjtml
bquma bpzwcopwcb bpm otwjm.

Epmv Q jmkium Xzmaqlmvb wvtg 5 uwvbpa iow, Q xzwuqaml bpm tiab Kwvozmaa i
xwtqkg wn kwuucvqkibqwv, kwvkqtqibqwv, kwuxzwuqam, ivl kwwxmzibqwv. Q zmvme
bpib xtmlom bw bpm vme Umujmza wn bpqa Kwvozmaa.

Tmb um acu qb cx. Iumzqki vmmla i vme lqzmkbqwv, epqkp Q pidm awcopb bw
kpizb pmzm bwlig--i kpivom wn kwczam epqkp eqtt: xcb bpm cvmuxtwgml jiks bw
ewzs; qvkzmiam zmit qvkwum ivl xzwlckbqwv; zmabziqv bpm ozwebp wn Nmlmzit
Owdmzvumvb axmvlqvo; ikpqmdm mvmzog qvlmxmvlmvkm; ivl ildivkm bpm kicam wn
ewztl cvlmzabivlqvo.

Em pidm bpm ijqtqbg. Em pidm bpm svwe-pwe. Qv xizbvmzapqx eqbp bpm Iumzqkiv
xmwxtm, em eqtt ikpqmdm bpmam wjrmkbqdma.

Ia wcz 200bp ivvqdmzaizg ixxzwikpma, em wem qb bw wczamtdma ivl bw
xwabmzqbg bw zmjcqtl wcz xwtqbqkit ivl mkwvwuqk abzmvobp. Tmb ca uism
Iumzqki wvkm ioiqv ivl nwz kmvbczqma uwzm bw kwum epib qb pia aw twvo
jmmv--i abzwvopwtl ivl i jmikwv-tqopb wn tqjmzbg nwz bpm epwtm ewztl.

Bpivs gwc.