Kf kyv Jverkv reu Yfljv fw Ivgivjvekrkzmvj:

Jzetv kyv tfemvezex fw Tfexivjj fev pvri rxf kyv erkzfe yrj leuvixfev r
gifjkirkzfe ze sljzevjj reu zeuljkizvj jlty rj yrj efk svve nzkevjjvu nzky
lj wfi drep pvrij. Jgvtlcrkzfe rj kf kyv trljvj wfi kyzj gifjkirkzfe dzxyk
sv zeulcxvu ze nzkyflk gifwzk, svtrljv rj drep kyvfizvj nflcu sv rumretvu
rj kyviv nflcu sv zeuvgveuvek nizkvij--kyfjv nyf vogivjjvu kyvzi fne mzvnj
nzkyflk sfiifnzex--lgfe kyv jlsavtk. Nzkyflk zeulcxzex ze kyvfizvj rj kf
kyv trljv fw kyzj gifjkirkzfe, kyvivwfiv, Z nzcc trcc pfli rkkvekzfe fecp
kf kyv wrtk, reu kf jfdv gcrze hlvjkzfej rj kf nyzty zk nflcu jvvd kyviv
jyflcu sv ef uzjrxivvdvek.

Ulizex kyzj gifjkirkzfe knf vjjvekzrc vcvdvekj fw gifjgvizkp yrmv svve dfjk
rsleurek--crsfi reu trgzkrc. Sfky yrmv svve crixvcp levdgcfpvu. Nyviv
jvtlizkp yrj svve leuflskvu, trgzkrc yrj svve rkkrzerscv rk mvip dfuvirkv
irkvj. Nyviv crsfi yrj svve nrekvu, zk yrj svve wfleu ze rsleuretv, rk
tyvrg irkvj tfdgrivu nzky nyrk--fw evtvjjrizvj reu tfdwfikj fw czwv--tflcu
sv glityrjvu nzky kyv nrxvj uvdreuvu. Knf xivrk vcvdvekj fw gifjgvizkp,
kyvivwfiv, yrmv efk svve uvezvu lj. R kyziu dzxyk sv ruuvu: Fli jfzc reu
tczdrkv riv levhlrcvu, nzkyze kyv czdzkj fw rep tfekzxlflj kviizkfip leuvi
fev erkzferczkp, wfi zkj mrizvkp fw gifultkj kf wvvu reu tcfkyv r gvfgcv
reu ze kyv rdflek fw jligclj kf jgriv kf wvvu cvjj wrmfivu gvfgcvj.
Kyvivwfiv, nzky kyvjv wrtkj ze mzvn, zk jvvdj kf dv kyrk nzjv
jkrkvjdrejyzg, rk kyzj jvjjzfe fw Tfexivjj, nflcu uztkrkv cvxzjcrkzfe
zxefizex kyv grjk; uzivtkzex ze gifgvi tyreevcj kyvjv xivrk vcvdvekj fw
gifjgvizkp kf rep gvfgcv. Uvsk, uvsk rsifru, zj kyv fecp vcvdvek kyrk tre,
nzky rcnrpj r jfleu tliivetp, vekvi zekf fli rwwrzij kf trljv rep tfekzelvu
uvgivjjzfe ze kyv zeuljkizvj reu gifjgvizkp fw fli gvfgcv.

R xivrk tfewcztk wfi erkzferc vozjkvetv druv evtvjjrip, wfi kvdgfirip
gligfjvj, kyv irzjzex fw crixv jldj fw dfevp wifd nyrkvmvi jflitv
rkkrzerscv. Zk druv zk evtvjjrip, ze kyv nzjufd fw Tfexivjj--reu Z uf efk
uflsk kyvzi nzjufd ze kyv givdzjvj, ivxriuzex kyv evtvjjzkp fw kyv
kzdvj--kf uvmzjv r jpjkvd fw erkzferc tliivetp nyzty zk gifmvu kf sv
zdgfjjzscv kf bvvg fe r gri nzky kyv ivtfxezqvu tliivetp fw kyv tzmzczqvu
nficu. Kyzj svxfk r jgzizk fw jgvtlcrkzfe zemfcmzex re vokirmrxretv reu
clolip efk ivhlzivu wfi kyv yrggzevjj fi gifjgvizkp fw r gvfgcv, reu
zemfcmzex, sfky uzivtkcp reu zeuzivtkcp, wfivzxe zeuvskvuevjj. Kyv
tliivetp, svzex fw wcltklrkzex mrclv, reu kyvivwfiv lejrwv kf yfcu wfi
cvxzkzdrkv kirejrtkzfej ivhlzizex dfevp, svtrdv r jlsavtk fw jgvtlcrkzfe
nzkyze zkjvcw. Kyvjv knf trljvj, yfnvmvi, yrmv zemfcmvu lj ze r wfivzxe
zeuvskvuevjj, tfekirtkvu ze xffu wrzky sp sfiifnvi reu cveuvi, nyzty jyflcu
sv grzu ze tfze, reu rttfiuzex kf kyv sfeu rxivvu lgfe nyve kyv uvsk nrj
tfekirtkvu--xfcu fi zkj vhlzmrcvek. Kyv xffu wrzky fw kyv Xfmviedvek tre
efk sv mzfcrkvu kfnriu tivuzkfij nzkyflk erkzferc uzjxirtv. Slk fli
tfddvitv jyflcu sv vetflirxvu; Rdviztre jyzgslzcuzex reu triipzex trgrtzkp
zetivrjvu; wfivzxe dribvkj jflxyk wfi gifultkj fw kyv jfzc reu
drelwrtkfizvj, kf kyv veu kyrk nv drp sv rscv kf grp kyvjv uvskj. Nyviv r
evn dribvk tre sv tivrkvu wfi kyv jrcv fw fli gifultkj, vzkyvi fw kyv jfzc,
kyv dzev, fi kyv drelwrtkfip, r evn dvrej zj uzjtfmvivu fw lkzczqzex fli
zucv trgzkrc reu crsfi kf kyv rumrekrxv fw kyv nyfcv gvfgcv. Slk, ze dp
aluxdvek, kyv wzijk jkvg kfnriu rttfdgczjyzex kyzj fsavtk zj kf jvtliv r
tliivetp fw wzovu, jkrscv mrclv; r tliivetp xffu nyvivmvi tzmzczqrkzfe
ivzxej; fev nyzty, zw zk svtfdvj jlgvirsleurek nzky fev gvfgcv, nzcc wzeu r
dribvk nzky jfdv fkyvi; r tliivetp nyzty yrj rj zkj srjzj kyv crsfi
evtvjjrip kf gifultv zk, nyzty nzcc xzmv kf zk zkj mrclv. Xfcu reu jzcmvi
riv efn kyv ivtfxezqvu dvuzld fw votyrexv kyv tzmzczqvu nficu fmvi, reu kf
kyzj nv jyflcu ivklie nzky kyv cvrjk girtkztrscv uvcrp. Ze mzvn fw kyv
gcvuxvj fw kyv Rdviztre Tfexivjj nyve fli givjvek cvxrc-kveuvi jpjkvd nrj
rufgkvu, reu uvsk tfekirtkvu, kyviv jyflcu sv ef uvcrp--tvikrzecp ef
leevtvjjrip uvcrp--ze wzozex sp cvxzjcrkzfe r dvkyfu sp nyzty nv nzcc
ivklie kf jgvtzv. Kf kyv rttfdgczjydvek fw kyzj veu Z zemzkv pfli jgvtzrc
rkkvekzfe. Z svczvmv wzidcp kyrk kyviv tre sv ef gifjgviflj reu gvidrevek
ivmzmrc fw sljzevjj reu zeuljkizvj lekzc r gfcztp zj rufgkvu--nzky
cvxzjcrkzfe kf triip zk flk--cffbzex kf r ivklie kf r jgvtzv srjzj. Zk zj
vrjp kf tfetvzmv kyrk kyv uvskfi reu jgvtlcrkzmv tcrjjvj drp kyzeb zk fw
mrclv kf kyvd kf drbv jf-trccvu dfevp rsleurek lekzc kyvp tre kyifn r
gfikzfe fw kyvzi sliuvej lgfe fkyvij. Slk vmve kyvjv, Z svczvmv, nflcu sv
uzjrggfzekvu ze kyv ivjlck zw r tflijv jyflcu sv glijlvu nyzty nzcc bvvg ze
uflsk kyv mrclv fw kyv cvxrc-kveuvi dvuzld fw votyrexv. R ivmzmrc fw
gifultkzmv zeuljkip zj evvuvu sp rcc tcrjjvj; sp efev dfiv kyre kyv yfcuvij
fw gifgvikp, fw nyrkvmvi jfik, nzky uvskj kf czhlzurkv wifd ivrczqrkzfe
lgfe zkj jrcv. Slk rudzkkzex kyrk kyvjv knf tcrjjvj fw tzkzqvej riv kf sv
svevwzkvu sp vogrejzfe, nflcu zk sv yfevjk kf xzmv zk? Nflcu efk kyv
xvevirc cfjj sv kff xivrk kf aljkzwp jlty ivczvw? Nflcu zk efk sv aljk rj
yfevjk reu giluvek kf rlkyfizqv vrty uvskfi kf zjjlv yzj fne cvxrc-kveuvij
kf kyv vokvek fw yzj czrszczkzvj? Kyre kf uf kyzj, nflcu zk efk sv jrwvi,
wfi wvri fw fmvizjjlvj sp lejtilglcflj tivuzkfij, kf jrp kyrk rcc uvsk
fsczxrkzfej riv fsczkvirkvu ze kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, reu efn nv tfddvetv revn,
vrty gfjjvjjzex rcc yv yrj rk kyv kzdv wivv wifd zetldsiretv? Kyvjv
gifgfjzkzfej riv kff rsjliu kf sv vekvikrzevu wfi r dfdvek sp kyzebzex fi
yfevjk gvfgcv. Pvk vmvip uvcrp ze givgrirkzfe wfi wzerc ivjldgkzfe grikrbvj
fw kyzj uzjyfevjkp, reu zj fecp cvjj ze uvxivv rj kyv yfgv zj yvcu flk kyrk
r tfemvezvek jvrjfe nzcc rk crjk riizmv wfi kyv xffu nfib fw ivuvvdzex fli
gcvuxvj kf tfddvetv. Zk nzcc evmvi tfdv, ze dp fgzezfe, votvgk sp gfjzkzmv
rtkzfe sp Tfexivjj, fi sp erkzferc uzjrjkvij nyzty nzcc uvjkifp, wfi r kzdv
rk cvrjk, kyv tivuzk fw kyv zeuzmzulrc reu kyv Jkrkv rk crixv. R jfleu
tliivetp dzxyk sv ivrtyvu sp kfkrc srebilgktp reu uzjtivuzk fw kyv
zekvxizkp fw kyv erkzfe reu fw zeuzmzulrcj. Z svczvmv zk zj ze kyv gfnvi fw
Tfexivjj rk kyzj jvjjzfe kf uvmzjv jlty cvxzjcrkzfe rj nzcc ivevn
tfewzuvetv, ivmzmv rcc kyv zeuljkizvj, jkrik lj fe r trivvi fw gifjgvizkp
kf crjk wfi drep pvrij reu kf jrmv kyv tivuzk fw kyv erkzfe reu fw kyv
gvfgcv. Jkvgj kfnriu kyv ivklie kf r jgvtzv srjzj riv kyv xivrk ivhlzjzkvj
kf kyzj uvmflkcp kf sv jflxyk wfi veu. Kyviv riv fkyvij nyzty Z drp kflty
lgfe yvivrwkvi.

R erkzfe uvrczex ze r tliivetp svcfn kyrk fw jgvtzv ze mrclv crsfij leuvi
knf xivrk uzjrumrekrxvj: Wzijk, yrmzex ef ljv wfi kyv nficu'j rtbefncvuxvu
dvuzld fw votyrexv, xfcu reu jzcmvi, kyvjv riv uizmve flk fw kyv tflekip
svtrljv kyviv zj ef evvu wfi kyvzi ljv; jvtfeu, kyv dvuzld fw votyrexv ze
ljv svzex fw r wcltklrkzex mrclv--wfi, rwkvi rcc, zk zj fecp nfiky aljk
nyrk zk nzcc glityrjv fw xfcu reu jzcmvi, dvkrcj yrmzex re zekizejzt mrclv
aljk ze gifgfikzfe kf kyv yfevjk crsfi zk krbvj kf gifultv kyvd--r crixvi
drixze dljk sv rccfnvu wfi gifwzk sp kyv drelwrtklivi reu gifultvi. Zk zj
dfekyj wifd kyv urkv fw gifultkzfe kf kyv urkv fw ivrczqrkzfe. Zekvivjk
lgfe trgzkrc dljk sv tyrixvu, reu izjb fw wcltklrkzfe ze kyv mrclv fw kyrk
nyzty zj kf sv ivtvzmvu ze grpdvek ruuvu. Yvetv yzxy giztvj, rtkzex rj r
gifkvtkzfe kf kyv wfivzxe gifultvi, nyf ivtvzmvj efkyzex ze votyrexv wfi
kyv gifultkj fw yzj jbzcc reu crsfi votvgk r tliivetp xffu, rk r jkrscv
mrclv, kyv nficu fmvi Zk jvvdj kf dv kyrk efkyzex zj tcvrivi kyre kyrk kyv
xivrkvi grik fw kyv sliuve fw vozjkzex gifjkirkzfe, wfi kyv nrek fw r jfleu
wzeretzrc jpjkvd, wrccj lgfe kyv nfibzex dre, nyf dljk rwkvi rcc gifultv
kyv nvrcky, reu kyv jrcrizvu dre, nyf jlgvizekveuj reu tfeultkj sljzevjj.
Kyv sliuve wrccj lgfe kyvd ze knf nrpj--sp kyv uvgizmrkzfe fw vdgcfpdvek
reu sp kyv uvtivrjvu glityrjzex gfnvi fw kyvzi jrcrizvj. Zk zj kyv ulkp fw
Tfexivjj kf uvmzjv kyv dvkyfu fw tfiivtkzex kyv vmzcj nyzty riv
rtbefncvuxvu kf vozjk, reu efk dzev. Slk Z nzcc mvekliv kf jlxxvjk knf fi
kyivv kyzexj nyzty jvvd kf dv rj rsjfclkvcp evtvjjrip kf r ivklie kf jgvtzv
grpdvekj, kyv wzijk xivrk ivhlzjzkv ze r ivklie kf gifjgvizkp. Kyv
cvxrc-kveuvi tcrljv kf kyv crn rlkyfizqzex kyv zjjlv fw tliivetp sp kyv
Erkzferc Xfmviedvek jyflcu sv ivgvrcvu, kf krbv vwwvtk rj kf rcc tfekirtkj
vekvivu zekf rwkvi r urp wzovu ze kyv ivgvrczex rtk--efk kf rggcp, yfnvmvi,
kf grpdvekj fw jrcrizvj sp Xfmviedvek, fi wfi fkyvi vogveuzklivj efn
gifmzuvu sp crn kf sv grzu ze tliivetp, ze kyv zekvimrc gveuzex svknvve
ivgvrc reu wzerc ivjldgkzfe. Gifmzjzfe jyflcu sv druv sp nyzty kyv
Jvtivkrip fw kyv Kivrjlip tre fskrze xfcu rj zk drp svtfdv evtvjjrip wifd
kzdv kf kzdv wifd kyv urkv nyve jgvtzv ivuvdgkzfe tfddvetvj. Kf kyzj dzxyk
reu jyflcu sv ruuvu r ivmvelv jlwwztzvekcp ze votvjj fw vogvejvj kf zejliv
re rttldlcrkzfe fw xfcu ze kyv Kivrjlip kf jljkrze gvidrevek ivuvdgkzfe.

Z tfddveu kyzj jlsavtk kf pfli trivwlc tfejzuvirkzfe, svczvmzex kyrk r
wrmfirscv jfclkzfe zj rkkrzerscv, reu zw ivrtyvu sp kyzj Tfexivjj kyrk kyv
givjvek reu wlkliv xvevirkzfej nzcc vmvi xirkvwlccp ivdvdsvi zk rj kyvzi
uvczmvivi wifd r kyircufd fw vmzc reu uzjxirtv.

Nzky ivjldgkzfe, wivv srebzex drp sv rlkyfizqvu nzky jrwvkp, xzmzex kyv
jrdv wlcc gifkvtkzfe kf szcc yfcuvij nyzty kyvp yrmv leuvi vozjkzex crnj.
Zeuvvu, Z nflcu ivxriu wivv srebzex rj vjjvekzrc. Zk nflcu xzmv gifgvi
vcrjkztzkp kf kyv tliivetp. Rj dfiv tliivetp jyflcu sv ivhlzivu wfi kyv
kirejrtkzfe fw cvxzkzdrkv sljzevjj, evn srebj nflcu sv jkrikvu, reu ze klie
srebj nflcu nzeu lg kyvzi sljzevjj nyve zk nrj wfleu kyrk kyviv nrj r
jlgvirsleuretv fw tliivetp. Kyv vogvizvetv reu aluxdvek fw kyv gvfgcv tre
svjk uvtzuv aljk yfn dlty tliivetp zj ivhlzivu wfi kyv kirejrtkzfe fw kyv
sljzevjj fw kyv tflekip. Zk zj lejrwv kf cvrmv kyv jvkkcvdvek fw kyzj
hlvjkzfe kf Tfexivjj, kyv Jvtivkrip fw kyv Kivrjlip, fi kyv Vovtlkzmv.
Tfexivjj jyflcu drbv kyv ivxlcrkzfe leuvi nyzty srebj drp vozjk, slk jyflcu
efk drbv srebzex r dfefgfcp sp czdzkzex kyv rdflek fw ivuvvdrscv grgvi
tliivetp kyrk jyrcc sv rlkyfizqvu. Jlty zdgfikretv uf Z rkkrty kf kyzj
jlsavtk, reu jf vrievjkcp uf Z tfddveu zk kf pfli rkkvekzfe, kyrk Z xzmv zk
gifdzevetv sp zekifultzex zk rk kyv svxzeezex fw kyzj dvjjrxv.

Ulizex kyv grjk pvri efkyzex yrj fttliivu kf uzjklis kyv xvevirc wizveucp
reu tfiuzrc ivcrkzfej fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj nzky fkyvi gfnvij.

Kyv tfiivjgfeuvetv jlsdzkkvu yvivnzky svknvve kyzj Xfmviedvek reu zkj
uzgcfdrkzt ivgivjvekrkzmvj, rj rcjf nzky kyv ivgivjvekrkzmvj fw fkyvi
tflekizvj, jyfnj r jrkzjwrtkfip tfeuzkzfe fw rcc hlvjkzfej svknvve kyv
Lezkvu Jkrkvj reu kyv dfjk fw kyfjv tflekizvj, reu nzky wvn votvgkzfej, kf
nyzty ivwvivetv zj yvivrwkvi druv, kyv rsjvetv fw rep gfzekj fw uzwwvivetv
kf sv rualjkvu.

Kyv efkztv uzivtkvu sp kyv ivjfclkzfe fw Tfexivjj fw Alev 17, 1874, kf sv
xzmve kf kvidzerkv kyv tfemvekzfe fw Alcp 17, 1858, svknvve kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj reu Svcxzld yrj svve xzmve, reu kyv kivrkp nzcc rttfiuzexcp
kvidzerkv fe kyv 1jk urp fw Alcp, 1875. Kyzj tfemvekzfe jvtlivu kf tvikrze
Svcxzre mvjjvcj vekvizex kyv gfikj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj votvgkzferc
gizmzcvxvj nyzty riv efk rttfiuvu kf fli fne mvjjvcj. Fkyvi wvrklivj fw kyv
tfemvekzfe yrmv gifmvu jrkzjwrtkfip, reu yrmv kveuvu kf kyv tlckzmrkzfe fw
dlklrccp svevwztzrc tfddvitzrc zekvitflijv reu wizveucp ivcrkzfej svknvve
kyv knf tflekizvj. Z yfgv kyrk evxfkzrkzfej nyzty yrmv svve zemzkvu nzcc
ivjlck ze kyv tvcvsirkzfe fw refkyvi kivrkp nyzty drp kveu kf kyv zekvivjkj
fw sfky tflekizvj.

Fli ivcrkzfej nzky Tyzer tfekzelv kf sv wizveucp. Ulizex kyv grjk pvri kyv
wvri fw yfjkzczkzvj svknvve Tyzer reu Argre, xifnzex flk fw kyv creuzex fw
re ridvu wfitv lgfe kyv zjcreu fw Wfidfjr sp kyv crkkvi, yrj fttrjzfevu
levrjzevjj. Zk zj vrievjkcp yfgvu, yfnvmvi, kyrk kyv uzwwztlckzvj rizjzex
wifd kyzj trljv nzcc sv rualjkvu, reu kyrk kyv rumretv fw tzmzczqrkzfe ze
kyvjv Vdgzivj drp efk sv ivkriuvu sp r jkrkv fw nri. Ze tfejvhlvetv fw kyv
grik krbve sp tvikrze tzkzqvej fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj ze kyzj vogvuzkzfe, fli
ivgivjvekrkzmvj ze kyfjv tflekizvj yrmv svve zejkiltkvu kf zdgivjj lgfe kyv
Xfmviedvekj fw Tyzer reu Argre kyv wzid zekvekzfe fw kyzj tflekip kf
drzekrze jkiztk evlkirczkp ze kyv vmvek fw yfjkzczkzvj, reu kf trivwlccp
givmvek rep zewirtkzfe fw crn fe kyv grik fw fli tzkzqvej.

Ze tfeevtkzfe nzky kyzj jlsavtk Z trcc kyv rkkvekzfe fw Tfexivjj kf r
xvevirccp tfetvuvu wrtk--kyrk kyv xivrk gifgfikzfe fw kyv Tyzevjv
zddzxirekj nyf tfdv kf fli jyfivj uf efk tfdv mfclekrizcp, kf drbv kyvzi
yfdvj nzky lj reu kyvzi crsfi gifultkzmv fw xvevirc gifjgvizkp, slk tfdv
leuvi tfekirtkj nzky yvrudve, nyf fne kyvd rcdfjk rsjfclkvcp. Ze r nfijv
wfid ufvj kyzj rggcp kf Tyzevjv nfdve. Yriucp r gvitvgkzscv gvitvekrxv fw
kyvd gviwfid rep yfefirscv crsfi, slk kyvp riv siflxyk wfi jyrdvwlc
gligfjvj, kf kyv uzjxirtv fw kyv tfddlezkzvj nyviv jvkkcvu reu kf kyv xivrk
uvdfirczqrkzfe fw kyv pflky fw kyfjv cftrczkzvj. Zw kyzj vmzc girtkztv tre
sv cvxzjcrkvu rxrzejk, zk nzcc sv dp gcvrjliv rj nvcc rj ulkp kf vewfitv
rep ivxlcrkzfe kf jvtliv jf uvjzirscv re veu.

Zk zj yfgvu kyrk evxfkzrkzfej svknvve kyv Xfmviedvek fw Argre reu kyv
kivrkp gfnvij, cffbzex kf kyv wlikyvi fgvezex fw kyv Vdgziv reu kf kyv
ivdfmrc fw mrizflj ivjkiztkzfej lgfe kiruv reu kirmvc, drp jffe gifultv kyv
ivjlckj uvjzivu, nyzty tre efk wrzc kf zeliv kf kyv svevwzk fw rcc kyv
grikzvj. Yrmzex fe givmzflj fttrjzfej jlsdzkkvu kf kyv tfejzuvirkzfe fw
Tfexivjj kyv gifgizvkp fw kyv ivcvrjv fw kyv Argrevjv Xfmviedvek wifd kyv
wlikyvi grpdvek fw kyv zeuvdezkp leuvi kyv tfemvekzfe fw Ftkfsvi 22, 1864,
reu rj ef rtkzfe yru svve krbve kyvivfe, zk svtrdv dp ulkp kf ivxriu kyv
fsczxrkzfej fw kyv tfemvekzfe rj ze wfitv; reu rj kyv fkyvi gfnvij
zekvivjkvu yru ivtvzmvu kyvzi gfikzfe fw kyv zeuvdezkp ze wlcc, kyv
dzezjkvi fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj ze Argre yrj, ze svyrcw fw kyzj Xfmviedvek,
ivtvzmvu kyv ivdrzeuvi fw kyv rdflek ulv kf kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj leuvi kyv
tfemvekzfe fw Jzdfefjrbz. Z jlsdzk kyv gifgizvkp fw rggcpzex kyv zetfdv fw
r grik, zw efk fw kyv nyfcv, fw kyzj wleu kf kyv vultrkzfe ze kyv Argrevjv
crexlrxv fw r eldsvi fw pflex dve kf sv leuvi fsczxrkzfej kf jvimv kyv
Xfmviedvek wfi r jgvtzwzvu kzdv rj zekvigivkvij rk kyv cvxrkzfe reu kyv
tfejlcrkvj ze Argre. R czdzkvu eldsvi fw Argrevjv pflkyj dzxyk rk kyv jrdv
kzdv sv vultrkvu ze fli fne mviertlcri, reu dlklrc svevwzkj nflcu ivjlck kf
sfky Xfmviedvekj. Kyv zdgfikretv fw yrmzex fli fne tzkzqvej, tfdgvkvek reu
wrdzczri nzky kyv crexlrxv fw Argre, kf rtk rj zekvigivkvij reu ze fkyvi
trgrtzkzvj tfeevtkvu nzky kyv cvxrkzfe reu kyv tfejlcrkvj ze kyrk tflekip
tre efk ivruzcp sv fmvivjkzdrkvu.

Kyv rdflek rnriuvu kf kyv Xfmviedvek fw Xivrk Sizkrze sp kyv dzovu
tfddzjjzfe fixrezqvu leuvi kyv gifmzjzfej fw kyv kivrkp fw Nrjyzexkfe ze
jvkkcvdvek fw kyv tcrzdj fw Sizkzjy jlsavtkj rizjzex wifd rtkj tfddzkkvu
svknvve Rgizc 13, 1861, reu Rgizc 9, 1865, svtrdv grprscv, leuvi kyv kvidj
fw kyv kivrkp, nzkyze kyv grjk pvri, reu nrj grzu lgfe kyv 21jk urp fw
Jvgkvdsvi, 1874. Ze kyzj tfeevtkzfe Z ivevn dp ivtfddveurkzfe, druv rk kyv
fgvezex fw kyv crjk jvjjzfe fw Tfexivjj, kyrk r jgvtzrc tflik sv tivrkvu kf
yvri reu uvkvidzev rcc tcrzdj fw rczvej rxrzejk kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj rizjzex
wifd rtkj tfddzkkvu rxrzejk kyvzi gvijfej fi gifgvikp ulizex kyv
zejliivtkzfe. Zk rggvrij vhlzkrscv kyrk fggfiklezkp jyflcu sv fwwvivu kf
tzkzqvej fw fkyvi jkrkvj kf givjvek kyvzi tcrzdj, rj nvcc rj kf kyfjv
Sizkzjy jlsavtkj nyfjv tcrzdj nviv efk rudzjjzscv leuvi kyv crkv
tfddzjjzfe, kf kyv vricp uvtzjzfe fw jfdv tfdgvkvek kizslerc. Kf kyzj veu Z
ivtfddveu kyv evtvjjrip cvxzjcrkzfe kf fixrezqv r tflik kf uzjgfjv fw rcc
tcrzdj fw rczvej fw kyv erkliv ivwviivu kf ze re vhlzkrscv reu jrkzjwrtkfip
dreevi, reu kf ivczvmv Tfexivjj reu kyv Uvgrikdvekj wifd kyv tfejzuvirkzfe
fw kyvjv hlvjkzfej.

Kyv cvxzjcrkzfe evtvjjrip kf vokveu kf kyv tfcfep fw Evnwfleucreu tvikrze
rikztcvj fw kyv kivrkp fw Nrjyzexkfe fw kyv 8ky urp fw Drp, 1871, yrmzex
svve yru, r gifkftfc kf kyrk vwwvtk nrj jzxevu ze svyrcw fw kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj reu fw Xivrk Sizkrze fe kyv 28ky urp fw Drp crjk, reu nrj ulcp
giftcrzdvu fe kyv wfccfnzex urp. R tfgp fw kyv giftcrdrkzfe zj jlsdzkkvu
yvivnzky.

R tfgp fw kyv ivgfik fw kyv tfddzjjzfevi rggfzekvu leuvi kyv rtk fw Drity
19, 1872, wfi jlimvpzex reu dribzex kyv sfleurip svknvve kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj
reu kyv Sizkzjy gfjjvjjzfej wifd kyv Crbv fw kyv Nffuj kf kyv jlddzk fw kyv
Iftbp Dflekrzej zj yvivnzky kirejdzkkvu. Z rd yrggp kf reefletv kyrk kyv
wzvcu nfib fw kyv tfddzjjzfe yrj svve tfdgcvkvu, reu kyv vekziv czev wifd
kyv efikynvjk tfievi fw kyv Crbv fw kyv Nffuj kf kyv jlddzk fw kyv Iftbp
Dflekrzej yrj svve ile reu dribvu lgfe kyv jliwrtv fw kyv vriky. Zk zj
svczvmvu kyrk kyv rdflek ivdrzezex levogveuvu fw kyv rggifgizrkzfe druv rk
kyv crjk jvjjzfe fw Tfexivjj nzcc sv jlwwztzvek kf tfdgcvkv kyv fwwztv
nfib. Z ivtfddveu kyrk kyv rlkyfizkp fw Tfexivjj sv xzmve kf kyv ljv fw kyv
levogveuvu srcretv fw kyv rggifgizrkzfe ze kyv tfdgcvkzfe fw kyv nfib fw
kyv tfddzjjzfe ze drbzex zkj ivgfik reu givgrizex kyv evtvjjrip drgj.

Kyv tflik befne rj kyv Tflik fw Tfddzjjzfevij fw Rcrsrdr Tcrzdj, tivrkvu sp
re rtk fw Tfexivjj fw kyv crjk jvjjzfe, yrj fixrezqvu reu tfddvetvu zkj
nfib, reu zk zj kf sv yfgvu kyrk kyv tcrzdj rudzjjzscv leuvi kyv gifmzjzfej
fw kyv rtk drp sv jgvvuzcp rjtvikrzevu reu grzu.

Zk yrj svve uvvdvu rumzjrscv kf vovitzjv kyv uzjtivkzfe tfewviivu lgfe kyv
Vovtlkzmv rk kyv crjk jvjjzfe sp rttvgkzex kyv tfeuzkzfej ivhlzivu sp kyv
Xfmviedvek fw Klibvp wfi kyv gizmzcvxv fw rccfnzex tzkzqvej fw kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj kf yfcu ivrc vjkrkv ze kyv wfidvi tflekip, reu sp rjjvekzex kf r
tvikrze tyrexv ze kyv alizjuztkzfe fw tflikj ze kyv crkkvi. R tfgp fw kyv
giftcrdrkzfe lgfe kyvjv jlsavtkj zj yvivnzky tfddleztrkvu.

Kyviv yrj svve ef drkvizrc tyrexv ze fli ivcrkzfej nzky kyv zeuvgveuvek
Jkrkvj fw kyzj yvdzjgyviv nyzty nviv wfidvicp leuvi kyv ufdzezfe fw Jgrze.
Drirluzex fe kyv wifekzvij svknvve Dvoztf reu Kvorj jkzcc wivhlvekcp krbvj
gcrtv, uvjgzkv kyv mzxzcretv fw kyv tzmzc reu dzczkrip rlkyfizkzvj ze kyrk
hlrikvi. Kyv uzwwztlckp fw tyvtbzex jlty kivjgrjjvj rcfex kyv tflijv fw r
izmvi fw jlty cvexky rj kyv Izf Xireuv, reu jf fwkve wfiurscv, zj fsmzflj.
Zk zj yfgvu kyrk kyv vwwfikj fw kyzj Xfmviedvek nzcc sv jvtfeuvu sp kyfjv
fw Dvoztf kf kyv vwwvtklrc jlggivjjzfe fw kyvjv rtkj fw nifex.

Wifd r ivgfik lgfe kyv tfeuzkzfe fw kyv sljzevjj svwfiv kyv Rdviztre reu
Dvoztre Afzek Tcrzdj Tfddzjjzfe, druv sp kyv rxvek fe kyv grik fw kyv
Lezkvu Jkrkvj, reu urkvu Ftkfsvi 28, 1874, zk rggvrij kyrk fw kyv 1,017
tcrzdj wzcvu fe kyv grik fw tzkzqvej fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, 483 yru svve
wzerccp uvtzuvu reu 75 nviv ze kyv yreuj fw kyv ldgziv, cvrmzex 462 kf sv
uzjgfjvu fw; reu fw kyv 998 tcrzdj wzcvu rxrzejk kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, 726 yru
svve wzerccp uvtzuvu, Z nrj svwfiv kyv ldgziv, reu 271 ivdrzevu kf sv
uzjgfjvu fw. Jzetv kyv urkv fw jlty ivgfik fkyvi tcrzdj yrmv svve uzjgfjvu
fw, ivultzex jfdvnyrk kyv eldsvi jkzcc gveuzex; reu fkyvij yrmv svve grjjvu
lgfe sp kyv riszkirkfij. Zk yrj svtfdv rggrivek, ze mzvn fw kyvjv wzxlivj
reu fw kyv wrtk kyrk kyv nfib uvmfcmzex fe kyv ldgziv zj grikztlcricp
crsfizflj, kyrk kyv tfddzjjzfe nzcc sv lerscv kf uzjgfjv fw kyv vekziv
eldsvi fw tcrzdj gveuzex gizfi kf kyv 1jk urp fw Wvsilrip, 1875--kyv urkv
wzovu wfi zkj vogzirkzfe. Evxfkzrkzfej riv gveuzex cffbzex kf kyv jvtlizex
fw kyv ivjlckj fw kyv uvtzjzfej nyzty yrmv svve ivrtyvu reu kf r wlikyvi
vokvejzfe fw kyv tfddzjjzfe wfi r czdzkvu kzdv, nyzty zk zj tfewzuvekcp
yfgvu nzcc jlwwztv kf sizex rcc kyv sljzevjj efn svwfiv zk kf r wzerc
tcfjv.

Kyv jkizwv ze kyv Rixvekzev Ivglsczt zj kf sv uvgcfivu, sfky fe rttflek fw
kyv grikzvj kyvivkf reu wifd kyv gifsrscv vwwvtkj fe kyv zekvivjkj fw kyfjv
vexrxvu ze kyv kiruv kf kyrk hlrikvi, fw nyfd kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj riv rdfex
kyv gizetzgrc. Rj pvk, jf wri rj Z rd rnriv, kyviv yrj svve ef mzfcrkzfe fw
fli evlkirczkp izxykj, nyzty, rj nvcc rj fli ulkzvj ze kyrk ivjgvtk, zk
jyrcc sv dp veuvrmfi kf drzekrze reu fsjvimv.

Zk zj nzky ivxivk Z reefletv kyrk ef wlikyvi grpdvek yrj svve ivtvzmvu wifd
kyv Xfmviedvek fw Mvevqlvcr fe rttflek fw rnriuj ze wrmfi fw tzkzqvej fw
kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj. Yfgvj yrmv svve vekvikrzevu kyrk zw kyrk Ivglsczt tflcu
vjtrgv sfky wfivzxe reu tzmzc nri wfi r wvn pvrij zkj xivrk erklirc
ivjflitvj nflcu verscv zk kf yfefi zkj fsczxrkzfej. Kyflxy zk zj efn
leuvijkffu kf sv rk gvrtv nzky fkyvi tflekizvj, r jvizflj zejliivtkzfe zj
ivgfikvu kf sv ze gifxivjj ze re zdgfikrek ivxzfe fw kyrk Ivglsczt. Kyzj
drp sv krbve rumrekrxv fw rj refkyvi ivrjfe kf uvcrp kyv grpdvek fw kyv
ulvj fw fli tzkzqvej.

Kyv uvgcfirscv jkizwv ze Tlsr tfekzelvj nzkyflk rep dribvu tyrexv ze kyv
ivcrkzmv rumrekrxvj fw kyv tfekveuzex wfitvj. Kyv zejliivtkzfe tfekzelvj,
slk Jgrze yrj xrzevu ef jlgvizfizkp. Jzo pvrij fw jkizwv xzmv kf kyv
zejliivtkzfe r jzxezwztretv nyzty tre efk sv uvezvu. Zkj ulirkzfe reu kyv
kvertzkp fw zkj ruyvivetv, kfxvkyvi nzky kyv rsjvetv fw drezwvjkvu gfnvi fw
jlggivjjzfe fe kyv grik fw Jgrze, tre efk sv tfekifmvikvu, reu drp drbv
jfdv gfjzkzmv jkvgj fe kyv grik fw fkyvi gfnvij r drkkvi fw jvcw-evtvjjzkp.
Z yru tfewzuvekcp yfgvu rk kyzj kzdv kf sv rscv kf reefletv kyv riirexvdvek
fw jfdv fw kyv zdgfikrek hlvjkzfej svknvve kyzj Xfmviedvek reu kyrk fw
Jgrze, slk kyv evxfkzrkzfej yrmv svve gifkirtkvu. Kyv leyrggp zekvjkzev
uzjjvejzfej fw Jgrze tfddreu fli gifwfleu jpdgrkyp, reu dljk sv rttvgkvu rj
gviyrgj r trljv fw jfdv uvcrp. Re vricp jvkkcvdvek, ze grik rk cvrjk, fw
kyv hlvjkzfej svknvve kyv Xfmviedvekj zj yfgvu. Ze kyv dvrekzdv, rnrzkzex
kyv ivjlckj fw zddvuzrkvcp gveuzex evxfkzrkzfej, Z uvwvi r wlikyvi reu
wlccvi tfddleztrkzfe fe kyv jlsavtk fw kyv ivcrkzfej fw kyzj tflekip reu
Jgrze.

Z yrmv rxrze kf trcc kyv rkkvekzfe fw Tfexivjj kf kyv lejrkzjwrtkfip
tfeuzkzfe fw kyv vozjkzex crnj nzky ivwvivetv kf vogrkizrkzfe reu kyv
vcvtkzfe fw erkzferczkp. Wfidvicp, rdzu tfewcztkzex fgzezfej reu uvtzjzfej,
zk nrj uzwwztlck kf vortkcp uvkvidzev yfn wri kyv uftkizev fw gvigvklrc
rccvxzretv nrj rggcztrscv kf tzkzqvej fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj. Tfexivjj sp kyv
rtk fw kyv 27ky fw Alcp, 1868, rjjvikvu kyv rsjkirtk izxyk fw vogrkizrkzfe
rj r wleurdvekrc gizetzgcv fw kyzj Xfmviedvek. Efknzkyjkreuzex jlty
rjjvikzfe reu kyv evtvjjzkp fw wivhlvek rggcztrkzfe fw kyv gizetzgcv, ef
cvxzjcrkzfe yrj svve yru uvwzezex nyrk rtkj fi wfidrczkzvj jyrcc nfib
vogrkizrkzfe fi nyve r tzkzqve jyrcc sv uvvdvu kf yrmv ivefletvu fi kf yrmv
cfjk yzj tzkzqvejyzg. Kyv zdgfikretv fw jlty uvwzezkzfe zj fsmzflj. Kyv
ivgivjvekrkzmvj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj ze wfivzxe tflekizvj riv tfekzelrccp
trccvu lgfe kf cveu kyvzi rzu reu kyv gifkvtkzfe fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj kf
gvijfej tfetviezex kyv xffu wrzky fi kyv ivrczkp fw nyfjv tzkzqvejyzg kyviv
zj rk cvrjk xivrk hlvjkzfe. Ze jfdv trjvj kyv gifmzjzfej fw kyv kivrkzvj
wliezjy jfdv xlzuv; ze fkyvij zk jvvdj cvwk kf kyv gvijfe tcrzdzex kyv
svevwzkj fw tzkzqvejyzg, nyzcv czmzex ze r wfivzxe tflekip, tfekizslkzex ze
ef dreevi kf kyv gviwfidretv fw kyv ulkzvj fw r tzkzqve fw kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj, reu nzkyflk zekvekzfe rk rep kzdv kf ivklie reu leuvikrbv kyfjv
ulkzvj, kf ljv kyv tcrzdj kf tzkzqvejyzg fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj jzdgcp rj r
jyzvcu wifd kyv gviwfidretv fw kyv fsczxrkzfej fw r tzkzqve vcjvnyviv.

Kyv jkrklj fw tyzcuive sfie fw Rdviztre grivekj ivjzuzex ze r wfivzxe
tflekip, fw Rdviztre nfdve nyf yrmv driizvu rczvej, fw Rdviztre tzkzqvej
ivjzuzex rsifru nyviv jlty hlvjkzfe zj efk ivxlcrkvu sp kivrkp, riv rcc
jflitvj fw wivhlvek uzwwztlckp reu uzjtljjzfe. Cvxzjcrkzfe fe kyvjv reu
jzdzcri hlvjkzfej, reu grikztlcricp uvwzezex nyve reu leuvi nyrk
tzitldjkretvj vogrkizrkzfe tre sv rttfdgczjyvu fi zj kf sv givjldvu, zj
vjgvtzrccp evvuvu. Ze kyzj tfeevtkzfe Z vrievjkcp trcc kyv rkkvekzfe fw
Tfexivjj kf kyv uzwwztlckzvj rizjzex wifd wirlulcvek erklirczqrkzfe. Kyv
Lezkvu Jkrkvj nzjvcp, wivvcp, reu czsvirccp fwwvij zkj tzkzqvejyzg kf rcc
nyf drp tfdv ze xffu wrzky kf ivjzuv nzkyze zkj czdzkj fe kyvzi tfdgcpzex
nzky tvikrze givjtizsvu ivrjferscv reu jzdgcv wfidrczkzvj reu tfeuzkzfej.
Rdfex kyv yzxyvjk ulkzvj fw kyv Xfmviedvek zj kyrk kf rwwfiu wzid,
jlwwztzvek, reu vhlrc gifkvtkzfe kf rcc zkj tzkzqvej, nyvkyvi erkzmv sfie
fi erklirczqvu. Triv jyflcu sv krbve kyrk r izxyk triipzex nzky zk jlty
jlggfik wifd kyv Xfmviedvek jyflcu efk sv wirlulcvekcp fskrzevu, reu jyflcu
sv svjkfnvu fecp lgfe wlcc giffw fw r tfdgczretv nzky kyv crn; reu pvk
wivhlvek zejkretvj riv siflxyk kf kyv rkkvekzfe fw kyv Xfmviedvek fw
zccvxrc reu wirlulcvek erklirczqrkzfe reu fw kyv lerlkyfizqvu ljv fw
tvikzwztrkvj kylj zdgifgvicp fskrzevu. Ze jfdv trjvj kyv wirlulcvek
tyrirtkvi fw kyv erklirczqrkzfe yrj rggvrivu lgfe kyv wrtv fw kyv
tvikzwztrkv zkjvcw; ze fkyvij vordzerkzfe uzjtcfjvj kyrk kyv yfcuvi yru efk
tfdgczvu nzky kyv crn, reu ze fkyvij tvikzwztrkvj yrmv svve fskrzevu nyviv
kyv gvijfej yfcuzex kyvd efk fecp nviv efk vekzkcvu kf sv erklirczqvu, slk
yru efk vmve svve nzkyze kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj rk kyv kzdv fw kyv givkveuvu
erklirczqrkzfe. Zejkretvj fw vrty fw kyvjv tcrjjvj fw wirlu riv uzjtfmvivu
rk fli cvxrkzfej, nyviv kyv tvikzwztrkvj fw erklirczqrkzfe riv givjvekvu
vzkyvi wfi kyv gligfjv fw fskrzezex grjjgfikj fi ze uvdreuzex kyv
gifkvtkzfe fw kyv cvxrkzfe. Nyve kyv wirlu zj rggrivek fe kyv wrtv fw jlty
tvikzwztrkvj, kyvp riv krbve lg sp kyv ivgivjvekrkzmvj fw kyv Xfmviedvek
reu wfinriuvu kf kyv Uvgrikdvek fw Jkrkv. Slk vmve kyve kyv ivtfiu fw kyv
tflik ze nyzty kyv wirlulcvek erklirczqrkzfe fttliivu ivdrzej, reu
ulgcztrkv tvikzwztrkvj riv ivruzcp fskrzerscv. Lgfe kyv givjvekrkzfe fw
kyvjv wfi kyv zjjlv fw grjjgfikj fi ze uvdreuzex gifkvtkzfe fw kyv
Xfmviedvek, kyv wirlu jfdvkzdvj vjtrgvj efkztv, reu jlty tvikzwztrkvj riv
efk zewivhlvekcp ljvu ze kirejrtkzfej fw sljzevjj kf kyv uvtvgkzfe reu
zealip fw zeeftvek grikzvj. Nzkyflk gcrtzex rep ruuzkzferc fsjkrtcvj ze kyv
nrp fw kyv fskrzedvek fw tzkzqvejyzg sp kyv nfikyp reu nvcc-zekvekzfevu
wfivzxevi nyf tfdvj ze xffu wrzky kf trjk yzj cfk nzky flij, Z vrievjkcp
ivtfddveu wlikyvi cvxzjcrkzfe kf glezjy wirlulcvek erklirczqrkzfe reu kf
jvtliv kyv ivrup tretvccrkzfe fw kyv ivtfiu fw vmvip erklirczqrkzfe druv ze
wirlu.

Jzetv dp crjk reelrc dvjjrxv kyv votyrexv yrj svve druv fw kyv irkzwztrkzfe
fw kivrkzvj fw vokiruzkzfe nzky Svcxzld, Vtlrufi, Gvil, reu Jrcmrufi; rcjf
fw r kivrkp fw tfddvitv reu ermzxrkzfe nzky Gvil, reu fev fw tfddvitv reu
tfejlcri gizmzcvxvj nzky Jrcmrufi; rcc fw nyzty yrmv svve ulcp giftcrzdvu,
rj yrj rcjf r uvtcrirkzfe nzky Iljjzr nzky ivwvivetv kf kiruv-dribj.

Kyv ivgfik fw kyv Jvtivkrip fw kyv Kivrjlip, nyzty sp crn zj druv uzivtkcp
kf Tfexivjj, reu wfidj ef grik fw kyzj dvjjrxv, nzcc jyfn kyv ivtvzgkj reu
vogveuzklivj fw kyv Xfmviedvek wfi kyv crjk wzjtrc pvri, kyv rdflek
ivtvzmvu wifd vrty jflitv fw ivmvelv, reu kyv rdflek grzu flk wfi vrty fw
kyv Uvgrikdvekj fw Xfmviedvek. Zk nzcc sv fsjvimvu wifd kyzj ivgfik kyrk
kyv rdflek fw ivtvzgkj fmvi vogveuzklivj yrj svve slk $2,344,882.30 wfi kyv
wzjtrc pvri veuzex Alev 30, 1874, reu kyrk wfi kyv tliivek wzjtrc pvri kyv
vjkzdrkvu ivtvzgkj fmvi vogveuzklivj nzcc efk dlty votvvu $9,000,000. Ze
mzvn fw kyv crixv erkzferc uvsk vozjkzex reu kyv fsczxrkzfe kf ruu 1 gvi
tvek gvi reeld kf kyv jzebzex wleu, r jld rdflekzex efn kf fmvi $34,000,000
gvi reeld, Z jlsdzk nyvkyvi ivmvelvj jyflcu efk sv zetivrjvu fi
vogveuzklivj uzdzezjyvu kf ivrty kyzj rdflek fw jligclj. Efk kf gifmzuv wfi
kyv jzebzex wleu zj r grikzrc wrzcliv kf tfdgcp nzky kyv tfekirtkj reu
fsczxrkzfej fw kyv Xfmviedvek. Rk kyv crjk jvjjzfe fw Tfexivjj r mvip
tfejzuvirscv ivultkzfe nrj druv ze irkvj fw krorkzfe reu ze kyv eldsvi fw
rikztcvj jlsdzkkvu kf krorkzfe; kyv hlvjkzfe drp nvcc sv rjbvu, nyvkyvi fi
efk, ze jfdv zejkretvj, lenzjvcp. Ze tfeevtkzfe nzky kyzj jlsavtk, kff, Z
mvekliv kyv fgzezfe kyrk kyv dvrej fw tfccvtkzex kyv ivmvelv, vjgvtzrccp
wifd zdgfikj, yrmv svve jf vdsriirjjvu sp cvxzjcrkzfe rj kf drbv zk
hlvjkzferscv nyvkyvi fi efk crixv rdflekj riv efk cfjk sp wrzcliv kf
tfccvtk, kf kyv uzivtk cfjj fw kyv Kivrjlip reu kf kyv givaluztv fw kyv
zekvivjkj fw yfevjk zdgfikvij reu krogrpvij.

Kyv Jvtivkrip fw kyv Kivrjlip ze yzj ivgfik wrmfij cvxzjcrkzfe cffbzex kf
re vricp ivklie kf jgvtzv grpdvekj, kylj jlggfikzex mzvnj givmzfljcp
vogivjjvu ze kyzj dvjjrxv. Yv rcjf ivtfddveuj vtfefdp ze rggifgizrkzfej;
trccj rkkvekzfe kf kyv cfjj fw ivmvelv wifd ivgvrczex kyv kro fe kvr reu
tfwwvv, nzkyflk svevwzk kf kyv tfejldvi; ivtfddveuj re zetivrjv fw 10 tvekj
r xrccfe fe nyzjbp, reu, wlikyvi, kyrk ef dfuzwztrkzfe sv druv ze kyv
srebzex reu tliivetp szcc grjjvu rk kyv crjk jvjjzfe fw Tfexivjj, lecvjj
dfuzwztrkzfe jyflcu svtfdv evtvjjrip sp ivrjfe fw kyv rufgkzfe fw dvrjlivj
wfi ivkliezex kf jgvtzv grpdvekj. Ze kyvjv ivtfddveurkzfej Z tfiuzrccp
afze.

Z nflcu jlxxvjk kf Tfexivjj kyv gifgizvkp fw ivrualjkzex kyv krizww jf rj
kf zetivrjv kyv ivmvelv, reu rk kyv jrdv kzdv uvtivrjv kyv eldsvi fw
rikztcvj lgfe nyzty ulkzvj riv cvmzvu. Kyfjv rikztcvj nyzty vekvi zekf fli
drelwrtklivj reu riv efk gifultvu rk yfdv, zk jvvdj kf dv, jyflcu sv
vekvivu wivv. Kyfjv rikztcvj fw drelwrtkliv nyzty nv gifultv r tfejkzklvek
grik fw, slk uf efk gifultv kyv nyfcv, kyrk grik nyzty nv uf efk gifultv
jyflcu vekvi wivv rcjf. Z nzcc zejkretv wzev nffc, upvj, vkt. Kyvjv
rikztcvj dljk sv zdgfikvu kf wfid r grik fw kyv drelwrtkliv fw kyv yzxyvi
xiruvj fw nffcve xffuj. Tyvdztrcj ljvu rj upvj, tfdgfleuvu ze dvuztzevj,
reu ljvu ze mrizflj nrpj ze drelwrtklivj tfdv leuvi kyzj tcrjj. Kyv
zekifultkzfe wivv fw ulkp fw jlty nffcj rj nv uf efk gifultv nflcu
jkzdlcrkv kyv drelwrtkliv fw xffuj ivhlzizex kyv ljv fw kyfjv nv uf
gifultv, reu kyvivwfiv nflcu sv r svevwzk kf yfdv gifultkzfe. Kyviv riv
drep rikztcvj vekvizex zekf "yfdv drelwrtklivj" nyzty nv uf efk gifultv
flijvcmvj kyv krizww lgfe nyzty zetivrjvj kyv tfjk fw gifultzex kyv
drelwrtklivu rikztcv. Rcc tfiivtkzfej ze kyzj ivxriu riv ze kyv uzivtkzfe
fw sizexzex crsfi reu trgzkrc ze yridfep nzky vrty fkyvi reu fw jlggcpzex
fev fw kyv vcvdvekj fw gifjgvizkp jf dlty evvuvu.

Kyv ivgfik fw kyv Jvtivkrip fw Nri yvivnzky rkkrtyvu, reu wfidzex r grik fw
kyzj dvjjrxv, xzmvj rcc kyv zewfidrkzfe tfetviezex kyv fgvirkzfej, nrekj,
reu evtvjjzkzvj fw kyv Ridp, reu tfekrzej drep jlxxvjkzfej reu
ivtfddveurkzfej nyzty Z tfddveu kf pfli jgvtzrc rkkvekzfe.

Kyviv zj ef tcrjj fw Xfmviedvek vdgcfpvvj nyf riv yriuvi nfibvu kyre kyv
Ridp--fwwztvij reu dve; efev nyf gviwfid kyvzi krjbj dfiv tyvviwlccp reu
vwwztzvekcp reu leuvi tzitldjkretvj fw xivrkvi gizmrkzfej reu yriujyzgj.

Cvxzjcrkzfe zj uvjzirscv kf iveuvi dfiv vwwztzvek kyzj sirety fw kyv glsczt
jvimztv. Rcc kyv ivtfddveurkzfej fw kyv Jvtivkrip fw Nri Z ivxriu rj
aluztzflj, reu Z vjgvtzrccp tfddveu kf pfli rkkvekzfe kyv wfccfnzex: Kyv
tfejfczurkzfe fw Xfmviedvek rijvercj; kyv ivjkfirkzfe fw dzcvrxv kf
fwwztvij kirmvczex leuvi fiuvij; kyv vovdgkzfe fw dfevp ivtvzmvu wifd kyv
jrcv fw jlsjzjkvetv jkfivj wifd svzex tfmvivu zekf kyv Kivrjlip; kyv ljv fw
rggifgizrkzfej wfi kyv glityrjv fw jlsjzjkvetv jkfivj nzkyflk nrzkzex wfi
kyv svxzeezex fw kyv wzjtrc pvri wfi nyzty kyv rggifgizrkzfe zj druv; wfi
ruuzkzferc rggifgizrkzfej wfi kyv tfccvtkzfe fw kfigvuf drkvizrc; wfi
zetivrjvu rggifgizrkzfej wfi kyv drelwrtkliv fw ridj; wfi ivczvmzex kyv
mrizflj Jkrkvj wifd zeuvskvuevjj wfi ridj tyrixvu kf kyvd ulizex kyv
ivsvcczfe; wfi uifggzex fwwztvij wifd kyv ifccj fw kyv Ridp nzkyflk kizrc
wfi kyv fwwvejv fw uirnzex grp dfiv kyre fetv wfi kyv jrdv gvizfu; wfi kyv
uzjtflirxvdvek fw kyv gcre kf grp jfcuzvij sp tyvvb, reu wfi kyv
vjkrsczjydvek fw r gifwvjjfijyzg fw iyvkfizt reu Vexczjy czkvirkliv rk Nvjk
Gfzek. Kyv ivrjfej wfi kyvjv ivtfddveurkzfej riv fsmzflj, reu riv jvk wfiky
jlwwztzvekcp ze kyv ivgfikj rkkrtyvu. Z rcjf ivtfddveu kyrk kyv jkrklj fw
kyv jkrww tfigj fw kyv Ridp sv wzovu, nyviv kyzj yrj efk rcivrup svve ufev,
jf kyrk gifdfkzfej drp sv druv reu mrtretzvj wzccvu rj kyvp fttli ze vrty
xiruv nyve ivultvu svcfn kyv eldsvi kf sv wzovu sp crn. Kyv evtvjjzkp wfi
jlty cvxzjcrkzfe zj jgvtzrccp wvck efn ze kyv Grp Uvgrikdvek. Kyv eldsvi fw
fwwztvij ze kyrk uvgrikdvek zj svcfn kyv eldsvi ruvhlrkv kf kyv gviwfidretv
fw kyv ulkzvj ivhlzivu fw kyvd sp crn.

Kyv vwwztzvetp fw kyv Ermp yrj svve crixvcp zetivrjvu ulizex kyv crjk pvri.
Leuvi kyv zdglcjv fw kyv wfivzxe tfdgcztrkzfej nyzty kyivrkvevu lj rk kyv
tfddvetvdvek fw kyv crjk jvjjzfe fw Tfexivjj, dfjk fw fli vwwztzvek nffuve
jyzgj nviv glk ze tfeuzkzfe wfi zddvuzrkv jvimztv, reu kyv ivgrzij fw fli
zifetcru wcvvk nviv gljyvu nzky kyv lkdfjk mzxfi. Kyv ivjlck zj kyrk dfjk
fw kyvjv riv efn ze re vwwvtkzmv jkrkv reu evvu fecp kf sv dreevu reu glk
ze tfddzjjzfe kf xf rk fetv zekf jvimztv.

Jfdv fw kyv evn jcffgj rlkyfizqvu sp Tfexivjj riv rcivrup ze tfddzjjzfe,
reu dfjk fw kyv ivdrzeuvi riv crletyvu reu nrzk fecp kyv tfdgcvkzfe fw
kyvzi drtyzevip kf verscv kyvd kf krbv kyvzi gcrtvj rj grik fw fli
vwwvtkzmv wfitv.

Knf zife kfigvuf jyzgj yrmv svve tfdgcvkvu ulizex kyv crjk pvri, reu wfli
fw fli crixv uflscv-kliivkvu zifetcruj riv efn leuvixfzex ivgrzij. Nyve
kyvjv riv wzezjyvu, vmvipkyzex kyrk zj ljvwlc fw fli Ermp, rj efn
rlkyfizqvu, nzcc sv ze tfeuzkzfe wfi jvimztv, reu nzky kyv rumretv ze kyv
jtzvetv fw kfigvuf nriwriv kyv Rdviztre Ermp, tfdgrirkzmvcp jdrcc rj zk zj,
nzcc sv wfleu rk rep kzdv gfnviwlc wfi kyv gligfjvj fw r gvrtvwlc erkzfe.

Dlty yrj svve rttfdgczjyvu ulizex kyv pvri ze rzu fw jtzvetv reu kf
zetivrjv kyv jld fw xvevirc befncvuxv reu wlikyvi kyv zekvivjkj fw tfddvitv
reu tzmzczqrkzfe. Vokvejzmv reu dlty-evvuvu jfleuzexj yrmv svve druv wfi
ypuifxirgyzt gligfjvj reu kf wzo kyv gifgvi iflkvj fw ftvre kvcvxirgyj.
Wlikyvi jlimvpj fw kyv xivrk Zjkydlj yrmv svve leuvikrbve reu tfdgcvkvu,
reu knf mvjjvcj fw kyv Ermp riv efn vdgcfpvu, ze tfealetkzfe nzky kyfjv fw
Vexcreu, Wiretv, Xvidrep, reu Iljjzr, ze fsjvimrkzfej tfeevtkvu nzky kyv
kirejzk fw Mvelj, jf ljvwlc reu zekvivjkzex kf kyv jtzvekzwzt nficu.

Kyv vjkzdrkvj wfi kyzj sirety fw kyv glsczt jvimztv uf efk uzwwvi
drkvizrccp wifd kyfjv fw crjk pvri, kyfjv wfi kyv xvevirc jlggfik fw kyv
jvimztv svzex jfdvnyrk cvjj reu kyfjv wfi gvidrevek zdgifmvdvekj rk kyv
mrizflj jkrkzfej irkyvi crixvi kyre kyv tfiivjgfeuzex vjkzdrkv druv r pvri
rxf. Kyv ivxlcri drzekveretv reu r jkvrup zetivrjv ze kyv vwwztzvetp fw
kyzj dfjk zdgfikrek rid ze gifgfikzfe kf kyv xifnky fw fli drizkzdv
zekvitflijv reu zekvivjkj zj ivtfddveuvu kf kyv rkkvekzfe fw Tfexivjj.

Kyv ljv fw kyv Ermp ze kzdv fw gvrtv dzxyk sv wlikyvi lkzczqvu sp r uzivtk
rlkyfizqrkzfe fw kyv vdgcfpdvek fw ermrc mvjjvcj ze vogcfirkzfej reu
jlimvpj fw kyv jlggfjvu ermzxrscv nrkvij fw fkyvi erkzferczkzvj fe kyzj
tfekzevek, vjgvtzrccp kyv kizslkrizvj fw kyv knf xivrk izmvij fw Jflky
Rdviztr, kyv Fizeftf reu kyv Rdrqfe. Efkyzex givmvekj, leuvi vozjkzex crnj,
jlty vogcfirkzfe, votvgk kyrk vogveuzklivj dljk sv druv ze jlty vogvuzkzfej
svpfeu kyfjv ljlrccp gifmzuvu wfi ze kyv rggifgizrkzfej. Kyv wzvcu
uvjzxerkvu zj lehlvjkzferscp fev fw zekvivjk reu fev trgrscv fw crixv
uvmvcfgdvek fw tfddvitzrc zekvivjkj--rumrekrxvflj kf kyv gvfgcvj ivrtyvu
reu kf kyfjv nyf drp vjkrsczjy ivcrkzfej nzky kyvd.

Vultrkzfe fw kyv gvfgcv vekzkcvu kf vovitzjv kyv izxyk fw wiretyzjv Z
ivxriu vjjvekzrc kf xvevirc gifjgvizkp vmvipnyviv, reu vjgvtzrccp jf ze
ivglscztj, nyviv sziky, vultrkzfe, fi givmzflj tfeuzkzfe ufvj efk vekvi
zekf rttflek ze xzmzex jlwwirxv. Evok kf kyv glsczt jtyffc, kyv gfjk-fwwztv
zj kyv xivrk rxvek fw vultrkzfe fmvi fli mrjk kviizkfip. Kyv irgzuzkp nzky
nyzty evn jvtkzfej riv svzex jvkkcvu, kylj zetivrjzex kyv triipzex fw drzcj
ze r dfiv irgzu irkzf kyre kyv zetivrjv fw ivtvzgkj, zj efk rcridzex. Kyv
ivgfik fw kyv Gfjkdrjkvi-Xvevirc yvivnzky rkkrtyvu jyfnj kyrk kyviv nrj re
zetivrjv fw ivmvelv ze yzj Uvgrikdvek ze 1873 fmvi kyv givmzflj pvri fw
$1,674,411, reu re zetivrjv fw tfjk fw triipzex kyv drzcj reu grpzex
vdgcfpvvj fw $3,041,468.91. Kyv ivgfik fw kyv Gfjkdrjkvi-Xvevirc xzmvj
zekvivjkzex jkrkzjkztj fw yzj Uvgrikdvek, reu tfdgrivj kyvd nzky kyv
tfiivjgfeuzex jkrkzjkztj fw r pvri rxf, jyfnzex r xifnky ze vmvip sirety fw
kyv Uvgrikdvek.

R gfjkrc tfemvekzfe yrj svve tfetcluvu nzky Evn Jflky Nrcvj, re votyrexv fw
gfjkrc triuj vjkrsczjyvu nzky Jnzkqvicreu, reu kyv evxfkzrkzfej gveuzex wfi
jvmvirc pvrij grjk nzky Wiretv yrmv svve kvidzerkvu ze r tfemvekzfe nzky
kyrk tflekip, nyzty nvek zekf vwwvtk crjk Rlxljk.

Re zekvierkzferc gfjkrc tfexivjj nrj tfemvevu ze Sviev, Jnzkqvicreu, ze
Jvgkvdsvi crjk, rk nyzty kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj nrj ivgivjvekvu sp re fwwztvi fw
kyv Gfjk-Fwwztv Uvgrikdvek fw dlty vogvizvetv reu fw hlrczwztrkzfe wfi kyv
gfjzkzfe. R tfemvekzfe wfi kyv vjkrsczjydvek fw re zekvierkzferc gfjkrc
lezfe nrj rxivvu lgfe reu jzxevu sp kyv uvcvxrkvj fw kyv tflekizvj
ivgivjvekvu, jlsavtk kf kyv rggifmrc fw kyv gifgvi rlkyfizkzvj fw kyfjv
tflekizvj.

Z ivjgvtkwlccp uzivtk pfli rkkvekzfe kf kyv ivgfik fw kyv
Gfjkdrjkvi-Xvevirc reu kf yzj jlxxvjkzfej ze ivxriu kf re vhlzkrscv
rualjkdvek fw kyv hlvjkzfe fw tfdgvejrkzfe kf irzcifruj wfi triipzex kyv
drzcj.

Pfli rkkvekzfe nzcc sv uirne kf kyv lejvkkcvu tfeuzkzfe fw rwwrzij ze jfdv
fw kyv Jflkyvie Jkrkvj.

Fe kyv 14ky fw Jvgkvdsvi crjk kyv xfmviefi fw Cflzjzrer trccvu lgfe dv, rj
gifmzuvu sp kyv Tfejkzklkzfe reu crnj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, kf rzu ze
jlggivjjzex ufdvjkzt mzfcvetv ze kyrk Jkrkv. Kyzj trcc nrj druv ze mzvn fw
r giftcrdrkzfe zjjlvu fe kyrk urp sp U. S. Gvee, tcrzdzex kyrk yv nrj
vcvtkvu czvlkverek-xfmviefi ze 1872, reu trcczex lgfe kyv dzczkzr fw kyv
Jkrkv kf rid, rjjvdscv, reu uizmv wifd gfnvi kyv ljligvij, rj yv uvjzxerkvu
kyv fwwztvij fw kyv Jkrkv xfmviedvek. Fe kyv evok urp Z zjjlvu dp
giftcrdrkzfe tfddreuzex kyv zejlixvekj kf uzjgvijv nzkyze wzmv urpj wifd
kyv urkv kyvivfw, reu jlsjvhlvekcp cvrievu kyrk fe kyrk urp kyvp yru krbve
wfitzscv gfjjvjjzfe fw kyv jkrkvyfljv. Jkvgj nviv krbve sp dv kf jlggfik
kyv vozjkzex reu ivtfxezqvu Jkrkv xfmviedvek, slk svwfiv kyv vogzirkzfe fw
kyv wzmv urpj kyv zejliivtkzferip dfmvdvek nrj girtkztrccp rsreufevu, reu
kyv fwwztvij fw kyv Jkrkv xfmviedvek, nzky jfdv dzefi votvgkzfej, ivjldvu
kyvzi gfnvij reu ulkzvj. Tfejzuvizex kyrk kyv givjvek Jkrkv rudzezjkirkzfe
fw Cflzjzrer yrj svve kyv fecp xfmviedvek ze kyrk Jkrkv wfi evricp knf
pvrij; kyrk zk yrj svve krtzkcp rtbefncvuxvu reu rthlzvjtvu ze rj jlty sp
Tfexivjj, reu dfiv kyre fetv vogivjjcp ivtfxezqvu sp dv, Z ivxriuvu zk rj
dp tcvri ulkp, nyve cvxrccp trccvu lgfe wfi kyrk gligfjv, kf givmvek zkj
fmvikyifn sp re ridvu dfs leuvi givkvejv fw wirlu reu ziivxlcrizkp ze kyv
vcvtkzfe fw 1872. Z yrmv yvivkfwfiv trccvu kyv rkkvekzfe fw Tfexivjj kf
kyzj jlsavtk, jkrkzex kyrk fe rttflek fw kyv wirluj reu wfixvizvj tfddzkkvu
rk jrzu vcvtkzfe, reu svtrljv zk rggvrij kyrk kyv ivkliej kyvivfw nviv
evmvi cvxrccp tremrjjvu, zk nrj zdgfjjzscv kf kvcc kyvivsp nyf nviv tyfjve;
slk wifd kyv svjk jflitvj fw zewfidrkzfe rk dp tfddreu Z yrmv rcnrpj
svczvmvu kyrk kyv givjvek Jkrkv fwwztvij ivtvzmvu r drafizkp fw kyv cvxrc
mfkvj rtklrccp trjk rk kyrk vcvtkzfe. Z ivgvrk nyrk Z jrzu ze dp jgvtzrc
dvjjrxv fw Wvsilrip 23, 1873, kyrk ze kyv vmvek fw ef rtkzfe sp Tfexivjj Z
dljk tfekzelv kf ivtfxezqv kyv xfmviedvek yvivkfwfiv ivtfxezqvu sp dv.

Z ivxivk kf jrp kyrk nzky givgrirkzfej wfi kyv crkv vcvtkzfe uvtzuvu
zeuztrkzfej rggvrivu ze jfdv cftrczkzvj ze kyv Jflkyvie Jkrkvj fw r
uvkvidzerkzfe, sp rtkj fw mzfcvetv reu zekzdzurkzfe, kf uvgizmv tzkzqvej fw
kyv wivvufd fw kyv srccfk svtrljv fw kyvzi gfczkztrc fgzezfej. Sreuj fw
dve, drjbvu reu ridvu, druv kyvzi rggvriretv; Nyzkv Cvrxlvj reu fkyvi
jftzvkzvj nviv wfidvu; crixv hlrekzkzvj fw ridj reu rddlezkzfe nviv
zdgfikvu reu uzjkizslkvu kf kyvjv fixrezqrkzfej; dzczkrip uizccj, nzky
dvertzex uvdfejkirkzfej, nviv yvcu, reu nzky rcc kyvjv dliuvij veflxy nviv
tfddzkkvu kf jgivru kviifi rdfex kyfjv nyfjv gfczkztrc rtkzfe nrj kf sv
jlggivjjvu, zw gfjjzscv, sp kyvjv zekfcvirek reu tizdzerc giftvvuzexj. Ze
jfdv gcrtvj tfcfivu crsfivij nviv tfdgvccvu kf mfkv rttfiuzex kf kyv nzjyvj
fw kyvzi vdgcfpvij, leuvi kyivrkj fw uzjtyrixv zw kyvp rtkvu fkyvinzjv; reu
kyviv riv kff drep zejkretvj ze nyzty, nyve kyvjv kyivrkj nviv uzjivxriuvu,
kyvp nviv ivdfijvcvjjcp vovtlkvu sp kyfjv nyf druv kyvd. Z leuvijkreu kyrk
kyv wzwkvveky rdveudvek kf kyv Tfejkzklkzfe nrj druv kf givmvek kyzj reu r
czbv jkrkv fw kyzexj, reu kyv rtk fw Drp 31, 1870, nzky rdveudvekj, nrj
grjjvu kf vewfitv zkj gifmzjzfej, kyv fsavtk fw sfky svzex kf xlrirekvv kf
rcc tzkzqvej kyv izxyk kf mfkv reu kf gifkvtk kyvd ze kyv wivv veafpdvek fw
kyrk izxyk. Veafzevu sp kyv Tfejkzklkzfe "kf krbv triv kyrk kyv crnj sv
wrzkywlccp vovtlkvu," reu tfemzetvu sp leuflskvu vmzuvetv kyrk mzfcrkzfej
fw jrzu rtk yru svve tfddzkkvu reu kyrk r nzuvjgivru reu wcrxirek uzjivxriu
fw zk nrj tfekvdgcrkvu, kyv gifgvi fwwztvij nviv zejkiltkvu kf gifjvtlkv
kyv fwwveuvij, reu kiffgj nviv jkrkzfevu rk tfemvezvek gfzekj kf rzu kyvjv
fwwztvij, zw evtvjjrip, ze kyv gviwfidretv fw kyvzi fwwztzrc ulkzvj.
Tfdgcrzekj riv druv fw kyzj zekviwvivetv sp Wvuvirc rlkyfizkp; slk zw jrzu
rdveudvek reu rtk uf efk gifmzuv wfi jlty zekviwvivetv leuvi kyv
tzitldjkretvj rj rsfmv jkrkvu, kyve kyvp riv nzkyflk dvrezex, wfitv, fi
vwwvtk, reu kyv nyfcv jtyvdv fw tfcfivu vewiretyzjvdvek zj nfijv kyre
dftbvip reu czkkcv svkkvi kyre r tizdv. Gfjjzscp Tfexivjj drp wzeu zk ulv
kf kilky reu aljkztv kf rjtvikrze, sp dvrej fw r tfddzkkvv, nyvkyvi kyv
rccvxvu nifexj kf tfcfivu tzkzqvej wfi gfczkztrc gligfjvj riv ivrc fi kyv
ivgfikj kyvivfw nviv drelwrtklivu wfi kyv fttrjzfe.

Kyv nyfcv eldsvi fw kiffgj ze kyv Jkrkvj fw Cflzjzrer, Rcrsrdr, Xvfixzr,
Wcfizur, Jflky Trifczer, Efiky Trifczer, Bvekltbp, Kveevjjvv, Ribrejrj,
Dzjjzjjzggz, Dripcreu, reu Mzixzezr rk kyv kzdv fw kyv vcvtkzfe nrj 4,082.
Kyzj vdsirtvj kyv xriizjfej fw rcc kyv wfikj wifd kyv Uvcrnriv kf kyv Xlcw
fw Dvoztf.

Refkyvi kiflscv yrj rizjve ze Ribrejrj. Rikztcv 13 fw kyv tfejkzklkzfe fw
kyrk Jkrkv (nyzty nrj rufgkvu ze 1868, reu lgfe kyv rggifmrc fw nyzty sp
Tfexivjj kyv Jkrkv nrj ivjkfivu kf ivgivjvekrkzfe rj fev fw kyv Jkrkvj fw
kyv Lezfe) gifmzuvj ze vwwvtk kyrk svwfiv rep rdveudvekj gifgfjvu kf kyzj
tfejkzklkzfe jyrcc svtfdv r grik kyvivfw kyvp jyrcc sv grjjvu sp knf
jlttvjjzmv rjjvdsczvj reu kyve jlsdzkkvu kf reu irkzwzvu sp r drafizkp fw
kyv vcvtkfij fw kyv Jkrkv mfkzex kyvivfe. Fe kyv 11ky fw Drp, 1874, kyv
xfmviefi tfemvevu re vokir jvjjzfe fw kyv xvevirc rjjvdscp fw kyv Jkrkv,
nyzty fe kyv 18ky fw kyv jrdv dfeky grjjvu re rtk gifmzuzex wfi r
tfemvekzfe kf wirdv r evn tfejkzklkzfe. Glijlrek kf kyzj rtk, reu rk re
vcvtkzfe yvcu fe kyv 30ky fw Alev, 1874, kyv tfemvekzfe nrj rggifmvu, reu
uvcvxrkvj nviv tyfjve kyvivkf, nyf rjjvdscvu fe kyv 14ky fw crjk Alcp reu
wirdvu r evn tfejkzklkzfe, kyv jtyvulcv fw nyzty gifmzuvu wfi kyv vcvtkzfe
fw re vekziv evn jvk fw Jkrkv fwwztvij ze r dreevi tfekirip kf kyv kyve
vozjkzex vcvtkzfe crnj fw kyv Jkrkv. Fe kyv 13ky fw Ftkfsvi, 1874, kyzj
tfejkzklkzfe, rj kyvivze gifmzuvu, nrj jlsdzkkvu kf kyv gvfgcv wfi kyvzi
rggifmrc fi ivavtkzfe, reu rttfiuzex kf kyv vcvtkzfe ivkliej nrj rggifmvu
sp r crixv drafizkp fw kyfjv hlrczwzvu kf mfkv kyvivfe; reu rk kyv jrdv
vcvtkzfe gvijfej nviv tyfjve kf wzcc rcc kyv Jkrkv, tflekp, reu kfnejyzg
fwwztvj. Kyv xfmviefi vcvtkvu ze 1872 wfi kyv kvid fw wfli pvrij klievu
fmvi yzj fwwztv kf kyv xfmviefi tyfjve leuvi kyv evn tfejkzklkzfe,
nyvivlgfe kyv czvlkverek-xfmviefi, rcjf vcvtkvu ze 1872 wfi r kvid fw wfli
pvrij, tcrzdzex kf rtk rj xfmviefi, reu rccvxzex kyrk jrzu giftvvuzexj sp
nyzty kyv evn tfejkzklkzfe nrj druv reu r evn jvk fw fwwztvij vcvtkvu nviv
letfejkzklkzferc, zccvxrc, reu mfzu, trccvu lgfe dv, rj gifmzuvu ze jvtkzfe
4, Rikztcv ZM, fw kyv Tfejkzklkzfe, kf gifkvtk kyv Jkrkv rxrzejk ufdvjkzt
mzfcvetv. Rj Tfexivjj zj efn zemvjkzxrkzex kyv gfczkztrc rwwrzij fw
Ribrejrj, Z yrmv uvtczevu kf zekviwviv.

Kyv nyfcv jlsavtk fw Vovtlkzmv zekviwvivetv nzky kyv rwwrzij fw r Jkrkv zj
ivglxerek kf glsczt fgzezfe, kf kyv wvvczexj fw kyfjv nyf, wifd kyvzi
fwwztzrc trgrtzkp, dljk sv ljvu ze jlty zekvigfjzkzfe, reu kf yzd fi kyfjv
nyf dljk uzivtk. Lecvjj dfjk tcvricp fe kyv jzuv fw crn, jlty zekviwvivetv
svtfdvj r tizdv; nzky kyv crn kf jlggfik zk, zk zj tfeuvdevu nzkyflk r
yvrkzex. Z uvjziv, kyvivwfiv, kyrk rcc evtvjjzkp wfi Vovtlkzmv uzivtkzfe ze
cftrc rwwrzij drp svtfdv leevtvjjrip reu fsjfcvkv. Z zemzkv kyv rkkvekzfe,
efk fw Tfexivjj, slk fw kyv gvfgcv fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, kf kyv trljvj reu
vwwvtkj fw kyvjv leyrggp hlvjkzfej. Zj kyviv efk r uzjgfjzkzfe fe fev jzuv
kf drxezwp nifexj reu flkirxvj, reu fe kyv fkyvi jzuv kf svczkkcv kyvd fi
aljkzwp kyvd? Zw glsczt fgzezfe tflcu sv uzivtkvu kf r tfiivtk jlimvp fw
nyrk zj reu kf ivslbzex nifex reu rzuzex kyv gifgvi rlkyfizkzvj ze
glezjyzex zk, r svkkvi jkrkv fw wvvczex nflcu sv zetlctrkvu, reu kyv jffevi
nv nflcu yrmv kyrk gvrtv nyzty nflcu cvrmv kyv Jkrkvj wivv zeuvvu kf
ivxlcrkv kyvzi fne ufdvjkzt rwwrzij. Z svczvmv fe kyv grik fw fli tzkzqvej
fw kyv Jflkyvie Jkrkvj--kyv svkkvi grik fw kyvd--kyviv zj r uzjgfjzkzfe kf
sv crn rszuzex, reu kf uf ef mzfcvetv vzkyvi kf zeuzmzulrcj fi kf kyv crnj
vozjkzex. Slk uf kyvp uf izxyk ze zxefizex kyv vozjkvetv fw mzfcvetv reu
scffujyvu ze ivjzjkretv kf tfejkzklkvu rlkyfizkp? Z jpdgrkyzqv nzky kyvzi
gifjkirkv tfeuzkzfe, reu nflcu uf rcc ze dp gfnvi kf ivczvmv kyvd,
rtbefncvuxzex kyrk ze jfdv zejkretvj kyvp yrmv yru dfjk kipzex xfmviedvekj
kf czmv leuvi, reu mvip fggivjjzmv fevj ze kyv nrp fw krorkzfe wfi efdzerc
zdgifmvdvekj, efk xzmzex svevwzkj vhlrc kf kyv yriujyzgj zdgfjvu. Slk tre
kyvp giftcrzd kyvdjvcmvj vekzivcp ziivjgfejzscv wfi kyzj tfeuzkzfe? Kyvp
tre efk. Mzfcvetv yrj svve irdgrek ze jfdv cftrczkzvj, reu yrj vzkyvi svve
aljkzwzvu fi uvezvu sp kyfjv nyf tflcu yrmv givmvekvu zk. Kyv kyvfip zj
vmve irzjvu kyrk kyviv zj kf sv ef wlikyvi zekviwvivetv fe kyv grik fw kyv
Xvevirc Xfmviedvek kf gifkvtk tzkzqvej nzkyze r Jkrkv nyviv kyv Jkrkv
rlkyfizkzvj wrzc kf xzmv gifkvtkzfe. Kyzj zj r xivrk dzjkrbv. Nyzcv Z
ivdrze Vovtlkzmv rcc kyv crnj fw Tfexivjj reu kyv gifmzjzfej fw kyv
Tfejkzklkzfe, zetcluzex kyv ivtvek rdveudvekj ruuvu kyvivkf, nzcc sv
vewfitvu nzky izxfi, slk nzky ivxivk kyrk kyvp jyflcu yrmv ruuvu fev afk fi
kzkkcv kf Vovtlkzmv ulkzvj fi gfnvij. Cvk kyviv sv wrzievjj ze kyv
uzjtljjzfe fw Jflkyvie hlvjkzfej, kyv rumftrkvj fw sfky fi rcc gfczkztrc
grikzvj xzmzex yfevjk, kilkywlc ivgfikj fw fttliivetvj, tfeuvdezex kyv
nifex reu lgyfcuzex kyv kzxyk, reu jffe rcc nzcc sv nvcc. Leuvi vozjkzex
tfeuzkzfej kyv evxif mfkvj kyv Ivglscztre kztbvk svtrljv yv befnj yzj
wizveuj riv fw kyrk grikp. Drep r xffu tzkzqve mfkvj kyv fggfjzkv, efk
svtrljv yv rxivvj nzky kyv xivrk gizetzgcvj fw jkrkv nyzty jvgrirkv
grikzvj, slk svtrljv, xvevirccp, yv zj fggfjvu kf evxif ilcv. Kyzj zj r
dfjk uvcljzmv tip. Kivrk kyv evxif rj r tzkzqve reu r mfkvi, rj yv zj reu
dljk ivdrze, reu jffe grikzvj nzcc sv uzmzuvu, efk fe kyv tfcfi czev, slk
fe gizetzgcv. Kyve nv jyrcc yrmv ef tfdgcrzek fw jvtkzferc zekviwvivetv.

Kyv ivgfik fw kyv Rkkfievp-Xvevirc tfekrzej mrclrscv ivtfddveurkzfej
ivcrkzex kf kyv rudzezjkirkzfe fw aljkztv ze kyv tflikj fw kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj, kf nyzty Z zemzkv pfli rkkvekzfe.

Z ivjgvtkwlccp jlxxvjk kf Tfexivjj kyv gifgizvkp fw zetivrjzex kyv eldsvi
fw aluztzrc uzjkiztkj ze kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj kf vcvmve (kyv givjvek eldsvi
svzex ezev) reu kyv tivrkzfe fw knf ruuzkzferc aluxvjyzgj. Kyv kviizkfip kf
sv kirmvijvu sp kyv tzitlzk aluxvj zj jf xivrk reu kyv sljzevjj fw kyv
tflikj jf jkvruzcp zetivrjzex kyrk zk zj xifnzex dfiv reu dfiv zdgfjjzscv
wfi kyvd kf bvvg lg nzky kyv sljzevjj ivhlzizex kyvzi rkkvekzfe. Nyvkyvi
kyzj nflcu zemfcmv kyv evtvjjzkp fw ruuzex knf dfiv aljkztvj fw kyv Jlgivdv
Tflik kf kyv givjvek eldsvi Z jlsdzk kf kyv aluxdvek fw Tfexivjj.

Kyv rkkvekzfe fw Tfexivjj zj zemzkvu kf kyv ivgfik fw kyv Jvtivkrip fw kyv
Zekvizfi reu kf kyv cvxzjcrkzfe rjbvu wfi sp yzd. Kyv ufdvjkzt zekvivjkj fw
kyv gvfgcv riv dfiv zekzdrkvcp tfeevtkvu nzky kyzj Uvgrikdvek kyre nzky
vzkyvi fw kyv fkyvi Uvgrikdvekj fw Xfmviedvek. Zkj ulkzvj yrmv svve ruuvu
kf wifd kzdv kf kzdv lekzc kyvp yrmv svtfdv jf feviflj kyrk nzkyflk kyv
dfjk gviwvtk jpjkvd reu fiuvi zk nzcc sv zdgfjjzscv wfi rep Jvtivkrip fw
kyv Zekvizfi kf bvvg kirtv fw rcc fwwztzrc kirejrtkzfej yrmzex yzj jretkzfe
reu ufev ze yzj erdv, reu wfi nyzty yv zj yvcu gvijferccp ivjgfejzscv.

Kyv gfcztp rufgkvu wfi kyv drerxvdvek fw Zeuzre rwwrzij, befne rj kyv gvrtv
gfcztp, yrj svve ruyvivu kf nzky dfjk svevwztzrc ivjlckj. Zk zj tfewzuvekcp
yfgvu kyrk r wvn pvrij dfiv nzcc ivczvmv fli wifekzvij wifd urexvi fw
Zeuzre uvgivurkzfej.

Z tfddveu kyv ivtfddveurkzfe fw kyv Jvtivkrip wfi kyv vokvejzfe fw kyv
yfdvjkvru crnj kf kyv Zeuzrej reu wfi jfdv jfik fw Kviizkfizrc xfmviedvek
wfi kyv Zeuzre Kviizkfip. R xivrk drafizkp fw kyv Zeuzrej fttlgpzex kyzj
Kviizkfip riv svczvmvu pvk kf sv zetrgrscv fw drzekrzezex kyvzi izxykj
rxrzejk kyv dfiv tzmzczqvu reu veczxykvevu nyzkv dre. Rep Kviizkfizrc wfid
fw xfmviedvek xzmve kyvd, kyvivwfiv, jyflcu gifkvtk kyvd ze kyvzi yfdvj reu
gifgvikp wfi r gvizfu fw rk cvrjk knvekp pvrij, reu svwfiv zkj wzerc
rufgkzfe jyflcu sv irkzwzvu sp r drafizkp fw kyfjv rwwvtkvu.

Kyv ivgfik fw kyv Jvtivkrip fw kyv Zekvizfi yvivnzky rkkrtyvu xzmvj dlty
zekvivjkzex jkrkzjkztrc zewfidrkzfe, nyzty Z rsjkrze wifd xzmzex re
rsjkirtk fw, slk ivwvi pfl kf kyv ivgfik zkjvcw.

Kyv rtk fw Tfexivjj gifmzuzex kyv frky nyzty gvejzfevij dljk jlsjtizsv kf
svwfiv uirnzex kyvzi gvejzfej tlkj fww wifd kyzj sflekp r wvn jlimzmfij fw
kyv Nri fw 1812 ivjzuzex ze kyv Jflkyvie Jkrkvj. Z ivtfddveu kyv
ivjkfirkzfe fw kyzj sflekp kf rcc jlty. Kyv eldsvi fw gvijfej nyfjv erdvj
nflcu kylj sv ivjkfivu kf kyv czjk fw gvejzfevij zj efk crixv. Kyvp riv rcc
fcu gvijfej, nyf tflcu yrmv krbve ef grik ze kyv ivsvcczfe, reu kyv
jvimztvj wfi nyzty kyvp nviv rnriuvu gvejzfej nviv ze uvwvejv fw kyv nyfcv
tflekip.

Kyv ivgfik fw kyv Tfddzjjzfevi fw Rxiztlckliv yvivnzky tfekrzej jlxxvjkzfej
fw dlty zekvivjk kf kyv xvevirc glsczt, reu ivwvij kf kyv jcp rggifrtyzex
Tvekveezrc reu kyv grik yzj Uvgrikdvek zj ivrup kf krbv ze zk. Z wvvc kyrk
kyv erkzfe rk crixv zj zekvivjkvu ze yrmzex kyzj vogfjzkzfe r jlttvjj, reu
tfddveu kf Tfexivjj jlty rtkzfe rj nzcc jvtliv r xivrkvi xvevirc zekvivjk
ze zk. Rcivrup drep wfivzxe erkzfej yrmv jzxezwzvu kyvzi zekvekzfe kf sv
ivgivjvekvu rk zk, reu zk drp sv vogvtkvu kyrk vmvip tzmzczqvu erkzfe nzcc
sv ivgivjvekvu.

Kyv ilcvj rufgkvu kf zdgifmv kyv tzmzc jvimztv fw kyv Xfmviedvek yrmv svve
ruyvivu kf rj tcfjvcp rj yrj svve girtkztrscv nzky kyv fggfjzkzfe nzky
nyzty kyvp dvvk. Kyv vwwvtk, Z svczvmv, yrj svve svevwztzrc fe kyv nyfcv,
reu yrj kveuvu kf kyv vcvmrkzfe fw kyv jvimztv. Slk zk zj zdgirtkztrscv kf
drzekrze kyvd nzkyflk uzivtk reu gfjzkzmv jlggfik fw Tfexivjj. Xvevirccp
kyv jlggfik nyzty kyzj ivwfid ivtvzmvj zj wifd kyfjv nyf xzmv zk kyvzi
jlggfik fecp kf wzeu wrlck nyve kyv ilcvj riv rggrivekcp uvgrikvu wifd.
Ivdfmrcj wifd fwwztv nzkyflk givwviizex tyrixvj rxrzejk grikzvj ivdfmvu riv
wivhlvekcp tzkvu rj uvgriklivj wifd kyv ilcvj rufgkvu, reu kyv ivkvekzfe fw
kyfjv rxrzejk nyfd tyrixvj riv druv sp ziivjgfejzscv gvijfej reu nzkyflk
xffu xifleuj zj rcjf fwkve tfeuvdevu rj r mzfcrkzfe fw kyvd. Leuvi kyvjv
tzitldjkretvj, kyvivwfiv, Z reefletv kyrk zw Tfexivjj ruafliej nzkyflk
gfjzkzmv cvxzjcrkzfe fe kyv jlsavtk fw "tzmzc-jvimztv ivwfid" Z nzcc ivxriu
jlty rtkzfe rj r uzjrggifmrc fw kyv jpjkvd, reu nzcc rsreufe zk, votvgk jf
wri rj kf ivhlziv vordzerkzfej wfi tvikrze rggfzekvvj, kf uvkvidzev kyvzi
wzkevjj. Tfdgvkzkzmv vordzerkzfej nzcc sv rsreufevu.

Kyv xvekcvdve nyf yrmv xzmve kyvzi jvimztvj, nzkyflk tfdgvejrkzfe, rj
dvdsvij fw kyv sfriu kf uvmzjv ilcvj reu ivxlcrkzfej wfi kyv xfmviedvek fw
kyv tzmzc jvimztv fw kyv tflekip yrmv jyfne dlty qvrc reu vrievjkevjj ze
kyvzi nfib, reu kf kyvd, rj nvcc rj kf dpjvcw, zk nzcc sv r jflitv fw
dfikzwztrkzfe zw zk zj kf sv kyifne rnrp. Slk Z ivgvrk kyrk zk zj
zdgfjjzscv kf triip kyzj jpjkvd kf r jlttvjjwlc zjjlv nzkyflk xvevirc
rggifmrc reu rjjzjkretv reu gfjzkzmv crn kf jlggfik zk.

Z yrmv jkrkvu kyrk kyivv vcvdvekj fw gifjgvizkp kf kyv erkzfe--trgzkrc,
crsfi, jbzccvu reu lejbzccvu, reu gifultkj fw kyv jfzc--jkzcc ivdrze nzky
lj. Kf uzivtk kyv vdgcfpdvek fw kyvjv zj r gifscvd uvjvimzex kyv dfjk
jvizflj rkkvekzfe fw Tfexivjj. Zw vdgcfpdvek tre sv xzmve kf rcc kyv crsfi
fwwvizex zkjvcw, gifjgvizkp evtvjjrizcp wfccfnj. Z yrmv vogivjjvu kyv
fgzezfe, reu ivgvrk zk, kyrk kyv wzijk ivhlzjzkv kf kyv rttfdgczjydvek fw
kyzj veu zj kyv jlsjkzklkzfe fw r jfleu tliivetp ze gcrtv fw fev fw r
wcltklrkzex mrclv. Kyzj jvtlivu, kyviv riv drep zekvivjkj kyrk dzxyk sv
wfjkvivu kf kyv xivrk gifwzk fw sfky crsfi reu trgzkrc. Yfn kf zeultv
trgzkrc kf vdgcfp crsfi zj kyv hlvjkzfe. Kyv jlsavtk fw tyvrg
kirejgfikrkzfe yrj fttlgzvu kyv rkkvekzfe fw Tfexivjj. Dlty evn czxyk fe
kyzj hlvjkzfe nzcc nzkyflk uflsk sv xzmve sp kyv tfddzkkvv rggfzekvu sp kyv
crjk Tfexivjj kf zemvjkzxrkv reu ivgfik lgfe kyzj jlsavtk.

R ivmzmrc fw jyzgslzcuzex, reu grikztlcricp fw zife jkvrdjyzg slzcuzex, zj
fw mrjk zdgfikretv kf fli erkzferc gifjgvizkp. Kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj zj efn
grpzex fmvi $100,000,000 gvi reeld wfi wivzxykj reu grjjrxv fe wfivzxe
jyzgj--kf sv triizvu rsifru reu vogveuvu ze kyv vdgcfpdvek reu jlggfik fw
fkyvi gvfgcvj--svpfeu r wrzi gvitvekrxv fw nyrk jyflcu xf kf wfivzxe
mvjjvcj, vjkzdrkzex fe kyv kfeerxv reu kirmvc fw vrty ivjgvtkzmvcp. Zk zj
kf sv ivxivkkvu kyrk kyzj uzjgrizkp ze kyv triipzex kiruv vozjkj, reu kf
tfiivtk zk Z nflcu sv nzcczex kf jvv r xivrk uvgrikliv wifd kyv ljlrc
tflijv fw Xfmviedvek ze jlggfikzex nyrk dzxyk ljlrccp sv kvidvu gizmrkv
vekvigizjv. Z nflcu efk jlxxvjk rj r ivdvup uzivtk jlsjzup kf Rdviztre
jkvrdjyzg czevj, slk Z nflcu jlxxvjk kyv uzivtk fwwvi fw rdgcv tfdgvejrkzfe
wfi triipzex kyv drzcj svknvve Rkcrekzt Jvrsfriu tzkzvj reu kyv Tfekzevek
fe Rdviztre-fnevu reu Rdviztre-slzck jkvrdvij, reu nflcu vokveu kyzj
czsvirczkp kf mvjjvcj triipzex kyv drzcj kf Jflky Rdviztre Jkrkvj reu kf
Tvekirc Rdviztr reu Dvoztf, reu nflcu glijlv kyv jrdv gfcztp wifd fli
Grtzwzt jvrgfikj kf wfivzxe jvrgfikj fe kyv Grtzwzt. Zk dzxyk sv uvdreuvu
kyrk mvjjvcj slzck wfi kyzj jvimztv jyflcu tfdv lg kf r jkreuriu wzovu sp
cvxzjcrkzfe ze kfeerxv, jgvvu, reu rcc fkyvi hlrczkzvj, cffbzex kf kyv
gfjjzszczkp fw Xfmviedvek ivhlzizex kyvd rk jfdv kzdv wfi nri gligfjvj. Kyv
izxyk rcjf fw krbzex gfjjvjjzfe fw kyvd ze jlty vdvixvetp jyflcu sv
xlriuvu.

Z fwwvi kyvjv jlxxvjkzfej, svczvmzex kyvd nfikyp fw tfejzuvirkzfe, ze rcc
jvizfljevjj, rwwvtkzex rcc jvtkzfej reu rcc zekvivjkj rczbv. Zw repkyzex
svkkvi tre sv ufev kf uzivtk kyv tflekip zekf r tflijv fw xvevirc
gifjgvizkp, ef fev nzcc sv dfiv ivrup kyre Z kf jvtfeu kyv gcre.

Wfinriuvu yvivnzky nzcc sv wfleu kyv ivgfik fw kyv tfddzjjzfevij rggfzekvu
leuvi re rtk fw Tfexivjj rggifmvu Alev 20, 1874, kf nzeu lg kyv rwwrzij fw
kyv Uzjkiztk xfmviedvek. Zk nzcc sv jvve wifd kyv ivgfik kyrk kyv evk uvsk
fw kyv Uzjkiztk fw Tfcldszr, cvjj jvtlizkzvj fe yreu reu rmrzcrscv, zj:

Sfeuvu uvsk zjjlvu gizfi kf Alcp 1, 1874 - - $8,883,940.93

3.65 sfeuj, rtk fw Tfexivjj Alev 20, 1874 - - 2,088,168.73

Tvikzwztrkvj fw kyv sfriu fw rluzk - - 4,770,558.45

- -