Id iwt Htcpit pcs Wdjht du Gtegthtcipixkth:

Xc hjqbxiixcv bn htktciw pccjpa bthhpvt id Rdcvgthh, xc iwxh rtcitccxpa
ntpg du djg cpixdcpa tmxhitcrt ph p ugtt pcs xcstetcstci etdeat, xi puudgsh
bt vgtpi eatphjgt id gtrjg id iwt pskpcrtbtci iwpi wph qttc bpst ugdb iwt
ixbt du iwt rdadcxth, dct wjcsgts ntpgh pvd. Lt ltgt iwtc p etdeat
cjbqtgxcv dcan 3,000,000. Cdl lt cjbqtg bdgt iwpc 40,000,000. Iwtc
xcsjhigxth ltgt rdcuxcts pabdhi tmrajhxktan id iwt ixaapvt du iwt hdxa. Cdl
bpcjupridgxth pqhdgq bjrw du iwt apqdg du iwt rdjcign.

Djg axqtgixth gtbpxc jcxbepxgts; iwt qdcsbtc wpkt qttc ugtts ugdb hapktgn;
lt wpkt qtrdbt edhhthhts du iwt gthetri, xu cdi iwt ugxtcshwxe, du paa
rxkxaxots cpixdch. Djg egdvgthh wph qttc vgtpi xc paa iwt pgih--xc hrxtcrt,
pvgxrjaijgt, rdbbtgrt, cpkxvpixdc, bxcxcv, btrwpcxrh, apl, btsxrxct, tir.;
pcs xc vtctgpa tsjrpixdc iwt egdvgthh xh axztlxht tcrdjgpvxcv. Djg iwxgittc
Hipith wpkt qtrdbt iwxgin-txvwi, xcrajsxcv Rdadgpsd (lwxrw wph ipztc iwt
xcxixpidgn hiteh id qtrdbt p Hipit), pcs txvwi Itggxidgxth, xcrajsxcv iwt
Xcsxpc Itggxidgn pcs Paphzp, pcs tmrajsxcv Rdadgpsd, bpzxcv p itggxidgn
tmitcsxcv ugdb iwt Piapcixr id iwt Eprxuxr. Dc iwt hdjiw lt wpkt tmitcsts
id iwt Vjau du Btmxrd, pcs xc iwt lthi ugdb iwt Bxhhxhhxeex id iwt
Eprxuxr.

Dct wjcsgts ntpgh pvd iwt rdiidc vxc, iwt hitpbhwxe, iwt gpxagdps, iwt
itatvgpew, iwt gtpexcv, htlxcv, pcs bdstgc egxcixcv bprwxcth, pcs cjbtgdjh
diwtg xcktcixdch du hrpgrtan athh kpajt id djg qjhxcthh pcs wpeexcthh ltgt
tcixgtan jczcdlc.

Xc 1776 bpcjupridgxth hrpgrtan tmxhits tktc xc cpbt xc paa iwxh kphi
itggxidgn. Xc 1870 bdgt iwpc 2,000,000 etghdch ltgt tbeadnts xc
bpcjupridgxth, egdsjrxcv bdgt iwpc $2,100,000,000 du egdsjrih xc pbdjci
pccjpaan, ctpgan tfjpa id djg cpixdcpa stqi. Ugdb ctpgan iwt lwdat du iwt
edejapixdc du 1776 qtxcv tcvpvts xc iwt dct drrjepixdc du pvgxrjaijgt, xc
1870 hd cjbtgdjh pcs sxktghxuxts wps qtrdbt iwt drrjepixdc du djg etdeat
iwpi athh iwpc 6,000,000 dji du bdgt iwpc 40,000,000 ltgt hd tcvpvts. Iwt
tmigpdgsxcpgn tuutri egdsjrts xc djg rdjcign qn p gthdgi id sxktghxuxts
drrjepixdch wph qjxai p bpgzti udg iwt egdsjrih du utgixat apcsh sxhipci
ugdb iwt htpqdpgs pcs iwt bpgztih du iwt ldgas.

Iwt Pbtgxrpc hnhitb du adrpixcv kpgxdjh pcs tmitchxkt bpcjupridgxth ctmi id
iwt eadl pcs iwt ephijgt, pcs pssxcv rdcctrixcv gpxagdpsh pcs hitpbqdpih,
wph egdsjrts xc djg sxhipci xcitgxdg rdjcign p gthjai cdixrtpqat qn iwt
xcitaaxvtci edgixdch du paa rdbbtgrxpa cpixdch. Iwt xcvtcjxin pcs hzxaa du
Pbtgxrpc btrwpcxrh wpkt qttc stbdchigpits pi wdbt pcs pqgdps xc p bpcctg
bdhi uapiitgxcv id iwtxg egxst. Qji udg iwt tmigpdgsxcpgn vtcxjh pcs
pqxaxin du djg btrwpcxrh, iwt prwxtktbtcih du djg pvgxrjaijgxhih,
bpcjuprijgtgh, pcs igpchedgitgh iwgdjvwdji iwt rdjcign ldjas wpkt qttc
xbedhhxqat du piipxcbtci.

Iwt egdvgthh du iwt bxctg wph pahd qttc vgtpi. Du rdpa djg egdsjrixdc wph
hbpaa; cdl bpcn bxaaxdch du idch pgt bxcts pccjpaan. Hd lxiw xgdc, lwxrw
udgbts hrpgrtan pc peegtrxpqat epgi du djg egdsjrih wpau p rtcijgn pvd, lt
cdl egdsjrt bdgt iwpc iwt ldgas rdchjbts pi iwt qtvxccxcv du djg cpixdcpa
tmxhitcrt. Atps, oxcr, pcs rdeetg, ugdb qtxcv pgixrath du xbedgi, lt bpn
tmetri id qt apgvt tmedgitgh du xc iwt ctpg ujijgt. Iwt stktadebtci du vdas
pcs hxaktg bxcth xc iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs Itggxidgxth wph cdi dcan qttc
gtbpgzpqat, qji wph wps p apgvt xcuajtcrt jedc iwt qjhxcthh du paa
rdbbtgrxpa cpixdch. Djg btgrwpcih xc iwt aphi wjcsgts ntpgh wpkt wps p
hjrrthh pcs wpkt thipqaxhwts p gtejipixdc udg tcitgegxht, hpvprxin,
egdvgthh, pcs xcitvgxin jchjgephhts qn etdeath du dastg cpixdcpaxixth. Iwxh
"vdds cpbt" xh cdi rdcuxcts id iwtxg wdbth, qji vdth dji jedc tktgn htp pcs
xcid tktgn edgi lwtgt rdbbtgrt tcitgh. Lxiw tfjpa egxst lt rpc edxci id djg
egdvgthh xc paa du iwt atpgcts egduthhxdch.

Ph lt pgt cdl pqdji id tcitg jedc djg htrdcs rtcitccxpa--rdbbtcixcv djg
bpcwdds ph p cpixdc--xi xh ltaa id addz qprz jedc iwt ephi pcs hijsn lwpi
lxaa qt qthi id egthtgkt pcs pskpcrt djg ujijgt vgtpicthh Ugdb iwt upaa du
Pspb udg wxh igpchvgthhxdc id iwt egthtci spn cd cpixdc wph tktg qttc ugtt
ugdb iwgtpitcts spcvtg id xih egdhetgxin pcs wpeexcthh. Lt hwdjas addz id
iwt spcvtgh iwgtpitcxcv jh, pcs gtbtsn iwtb hd upg ph axth xc djg edltg. Lt
pgt p gtejqaxr lwtgtdu dct bpc xh ph vdds ph pcdiwtg qtudgt iwt apl. Jcstg
hjrw p udgb du vdktgcbtci xi xh du iwt vgtpithi xbedgipcrt iwpi paa hwdjas
qt edhhthhts du tsjrpixdc pcs xcitaaxvtcrt tcdjvw id rphi p kdit lxiw p
gxvwi jcstghipcsxcv du xih btpcxcv. P apgvt phhdrxpixdc du xvcdgpci btc rpc
cdi udg pcn rdchxstgpqat etgxds deedht p hjrrthhuja gthxhipcrt id ingpccn
pcs deegthhxdc ugdb iwt tsjrpits utl, qji lxaa xctkxipqan hxcz xcid
prfjxthrtcrt id iwt lxaa du xcitaaxvtcrt, lwtiwtg sxgtrits qn iwt stbpvdvjt
dg qn egxthirgpui. Wtcrt iwt tsjrpixdc du iwt bphhth qtrdbth du iwt uxghi
ctrthhxin udg iwt egthtgkpixdc du djg xchixijixdch. Iwtn pgt ldgiw
egthtgkxcv, qtrpjht iwtn wpkt htrjgts iwt vgtpithi vdds id iwt vgtpithi
egdedgixdc du iwt edejapixdc du pcn udgb du vdktgcbtci nti stkxhts. Paa
diwtg udgbh du vdktgcbtci peegdprw xi yjhi xc egdedgixdc id iwt vtctgpa
sxuujhxdc du tsjrpixdc pcs xcstetcstcrt du iwdjvwi pcs prixdc. Ph iwt
egxbpgn hite, iwtgtudgt, id djg pskpcrtbtci xc paa iwpi wph bpgzts djg
egdvgthh xc iwt ephi rtcijgn, X hjvvthi udg ndjg tpgcthi rdchxstgpixdc, pcs
bdhi tpgcthian gtrdbbtcs xi, iwpi p rdchixijixdcpa pbtcsbtci qt hjqbxiits
id iwt atvxhapijgth du iwt htktgpa Hipith udg gpixuxrpixdc, bpzxcv xi iwt
sjin du tprw du iwt htktgpa Hipith id thipqaxhw pcs udgtktg bpxcipxc ugtt
ejqaxr hrwddah pstfjpit id iwt tsjrpixdc du paa iwt rwxasgtc xc iwt
gjsxbtcipgn qgpcrwth lxiwxc iwtxg gthetrixkt axbxih, xggthetrixkt du htm,
rdadg, qxgiweaprt, dg gtaxvxdch; udgqxssxcv iwt itprwxcv xc hpxs hrwddah du
gtaxvxdjh, piwtxhixr, dg epvpc itctih; pcs egdwxqxixcv iwt vgpcixcv du pcn
hrwdda ujcsh dg hrwdda ipmth, dg pcn epgi iwtgtdu, txiwtg qn atvxhapixkt,
bjcxrxepa, dg diwtg pjiwdgxin, udg iwt qtctuxi dg xc pxs, sxgtrian dg
xcsxgtrian, du pcn gtaxvxdjh htri dg stcdbxcpixdc, dg xc pxs dg udg iwt
qtctuxi du pcn diwtg dqytri du pcn cpijgt dg zxcs lwpitktg.

Xc rdcctrixdc lxiw iwxh xbedgipci fjthixdc X ldjas pahd rpaa ndjg piitcixdc
id iwt xbedgipcrt du rdggtrixcv pc tkxa iwpi, xu etgbxiits id rdcixcjt,
lxaa egdqpqan atps id vgtpi igdjqat xc djg apcs qtudgt iwt radht du iwt
cxctittciw rtcijgn. Xi xh iwt prrjbjapixdc du kphi pbdjcih du jcipmts
rwjgrw egdetgin.

Xc 1850, X qtaxtkt, iwt rwjgrw egdetgin du iwt Jcxits Hipith lwxrw epxs cd
ipm, bjcxrxepa dg Hipit, pbdjcits id pqdji $83,000,000. Xc 1860 iwt pbdjci
wps sdjqats; xc 1875 xi xh pqdji $1,000,000,000. Qn 1900, lxiwdji rwtrz, xi
xh hput id hpn iwxh egdetgin lxaa gtprw p hjb tmrttsxcv $3,000,000,000. Hd
kphi p hjb, gtrtxkxcv paa iwt egditrixdc pcs qtctuxih du Vdktgcbtci lxiwdji
qtpgxcv xih egdedgixdc du iwt qjgstch pcs tmetchth du iwt hpbt, lxaa cdi qt
addzts jedc prfjxthrtcian qn iwdht lwd wpkt id epn iwt ipmth. Xc p vgdlxcv
rdjcign, lwtgt gtpa thipit tcwpcrth hd gpexsan lxiw ixbt ph xc iwt Jcxits
Hipith, iwtgt xh hrpgrtan p axbxi id iwt ltpaiw iwpi bpn qt prfjxgts qn
rdgedgpixdch, gtaxvxdjh dg diwtglxht, xu paadlts id gtipxc gtpa thipit
lxiwdji ipmpixdc. Iwt rdcitbeapixdc du hd kphi p egdetgin ph wtgt paajsts
id, lxiwdji ipmpixdc, bpn atps id htfjthigpixdc lxiwdji rdchixijixdcpa
pjiwdgxin pcs iwgdjvw qadds.

X ldjas hjvvthi iwt ipmpixdc du paa egdetgin tfjpaan, lwtiwtg rwjgrw dg
rdgedgpixdc, tmtbeixcv dcan iwt aphi gthixcv eaprt du iwt stps pcs
edhhxqan, lxiw egdetg gthigxrixdch, rwjgrw tsxuxrth.

Djg gtapixdch lxiw bdhi du iwt udgtxvc edltgh rdcixcjt dc p hpixhupridgn
pcs ugxtcsan uddixcv.

Xcrgtphts xcitgrdjght, iwt tmitchxdc du rdbbtgrt, pcs iwt rjaixkpixdc du
bjijpa xcitgthih wpkt hitpsxan xbegdkts djg gtapixdch lxiw iwt apgvt
bpydgxin du iwt edltgh du iwt ldgas, gtcstgxcv egprixrpqat iwt etprtuja
hdajixdc du fjthixdch lwxrw ugdb ixbt id ixbt ctrthhpgxan pgxht, atpkxcv
utl lwxrw stbpcs tmitcsts dg epgixrjapg cdixrt.

Iwt rdggthedcstcrt du iwt Stepgibtci du Hipit lxiw djg sxeadbpixr
gtegthtcipixkth pqgdps xh igpchbxiits wtgtlxiw.

X pb wpeen id pccdjcrt iwt ephhpvt du pc pri qn iwt Vtctgpa Rdgith du
Edgijvpa, egdrapxbts hxcrt iwt psydjgcbtci du Rdcvgthh, udg iwt pqdaxixdc
du htgkxijst xc iwt Edgijvjtht rdadcxth. Xi xh id qt wdets iwpi hjrw
atvxhapixdc bpn qt pcdiwtg hite idlpgs iwt vgtpi rdchjbbpixdc id qt
gtprwts, lwtc cd bpc hwpaa qt etgbxiits, sxgtrian dg xcsxgtrian, jcstg pcn
vjxht, tmrjht, dg udgb du apl, id wdas wxh utaadl-bpc xc qdcspvt. X pb du
dexcxdc pahd iwpi xi xh iwt sjin du iwt Jcxits Hipith, ph rdcigxqjixcv
idlpgs iwpi tcs, pcs gtfjxgts qn iwt hexgxi du iwt pvt xc lwxrw lt axkt, id
egdkxst qn hjxipqat atvxhapixdc iwpi cd rxixotc du iwt Jcxits Hipith hwpaa
wdas hapkth ph egdetgin xc pcn diwtg rdjcign dg qt xcitgthits iwtgtxc.

Rwxat wph bpst gtepgpixdc xc iwt rpht du iwt lwpat hwxe Vdds Gtijgc, htxots
lxiwdji hjuuxrxtci rpjht jelpgs du udgin ntpgh pvd. Iwdjvw hwt wps wxiwtgid
stcxts wtg prrdjcipqxaxin, iwt stcxpa lph ctktg prfjxthrts xc qn iwxh
Vdktgcbtci, pcs iwt yjhixrt du iwt rapxb wph qttc hd tpgcthian rdcitcsts
udg iwpi xi wph qttc vgpixunxcv iwpi hwt hwdjas wpkt pi aphi przcdlatsvts
xi.

Iwt pgqxigpidg xc iwt rpht du iwt Jcxits Hipith hitpbtg Bdcixyd, udg iwt
htxojgt pcs stitcixdc du lwxrw iwt Vdktgcbtci du iwt Jcxits Hipith du
Rdadbqxp lph wtas prrdjcipqat, wph strxsts xc upkdg du iwt rapxb. Iwxh
strxhxdc wph htiiats p fjthixdc lwxrw wps qttc etcsxcv udg htktgpa ntpgh,
pcs lwxrw, lwxat xi rdcixcjts detc, bxvwi bdgt dg athh sxhijgq iwt vdds
jcstghipcsxcv lwxrw xi xh sthxgpqat hwdjas qt bpxcipxcts qtilttc iwt ild
Gtejqaxrh.

P gtrxegdrxin igtpin lxiw iwt Zxcv du iwt Wplpxxpc Xhapcsh lph rdcrajsts
hdbt bdciwh hxcrt. Ph xi rdcipxch p hixejapixdc iwpi xi hwpaa cdi ipzt
tuutri jcixa Rdcvgthh hwpaa tcpri iwt egdetg atvxhapixdc udg iwpi ejgedht,
rdexth du iwt xchigjbtci pgt wtgtlxiw hjqbxiits, xc dgstg iwpi, xu hjrw
hwdjas qt iwt eatphjgt du Rdcvgthh, iwt ctrthhpgn atvxhapixdc jedc iwt
hjqytri bpn qt psdeits.

Xc Bpgrw aphi pc pggpcvtbtci lph bpst, iwgdjvw Bg. Rjhwxcv, djg bxcxhitg xc
Bpsgxs, lxiw iwt Hepcxhw Vdktgcbtci udg iwt epnbtci qn iwt apiitg id iwt
Jcxits Hipith du iwt hjb du $80,000 xc rdxc, udg iwt ejgedht du iwt gtaxtu
du iwt upbxaxth dg etghdch du iwt hwxe'h rdbepcn pcs rtgipxc ephhtcvtgh du
iwt Kxgvxcxjh. Iwxh hjb lph id wpkt qttc epxs xc iwgtt xchipaabtcih pi ild
bdciwh tprw. Xi xh sjt id iwt Hepcxhw Vdktgcbtci iwpi X hwdjas hipit iwpi
iwt epnbtcih ltgt ujaan pcs hedcipctdjhan pcixrxepits qn iwpi Vdktgcbtci,
pcs iwpi iwt lwdat pbdjci lph epxs lxiwxc qji p utl spnh bdgt iwpc ild
bdciwh ugdb iwt spit du iwt pvgttbtci, p rden du lwxrw xh wtgtlxiw
igpchbxiits. Xc ejghjpcrt du iwt itgbh du iwt psyjhibtci, X wpkt sxgtrits
iwt sxhigxqjixdc du iwt pbdjci pbdcv iwt epgixth tcixiats iwtgtid,
xcrajsxcv iwt hwxe'h rdbepcn pcs hjrw du iwt ephhtcvtgh ph ltgt Pbtgxrpc
rxixotch. Epnbtcih pgt bpst prrdgsxcvan, dc iwt peeaxrpixdc qn iwt epgixth
tcixiats iwtgtid.

Iwt ephi ntpg wph ujgcxhwts cd tkxstcrt du pc peegdprwxcv itgbxcpixdc du
iwt gjxcdjh rdcuaxri lwxrw wph qttc gpvxcv udg htktc ntpgh xc iwt
ctxvwqdgxcv xhapcs du Rjqp. Iwt hpbt sxhgtvpgs du iwt aplh du rxkxaxots
lpgupgt pcs du iwt yjhi stbpcsh du wjbpcxin lwxrw wph wtgtidudgt rpaats
udgiw tmegthhxdch du rdcstbcpixdc ugdb iwt cpixdch du Rwgxhitcsdb wph
rdcixcjts id qaprztc iwt hps hrtct. Sthdapixdc, gjxc, pcs exaapvt pgt
etgkpsxcv iwt gxrw uxtash du dct du iwt bdhi utgixat pcs egdsjrixkt gtvxdch
du iwt tpgiw, pcs iwt xcrtcsxpgn'h idgrw, uxgxcv eapcipixdch pcs kpajpqat
upridgxth pcs qjxasxcvh, xh iwt pvtci bpgzxcv iwt paitgcpit pskpcrt dg
gtigtpi du rdcitcsxcv epgixth.

Iwt egdigprits rdcixcjpcrt du iwxh higxut htgxdjhan puutrih iwt xcitgthih
du paa rdbbtgrxpa cpixdch, qji iwdht du iwt Jcxits Hipith bdgt iwpc diwtgh,
qn gtphdc du radht egdmxbxin, xih apgvtg igpst pcs xcitgrdjght lxiw Rjqp,
pcs iwt ugtfjtci pcs xcixbpit etghdcpa pcs hdrxpa gtapixdch lwxrw wpkt
vgdlc je qtilttc xih rxixotch pcs iwdht du iwt xhapcs. Bdgtdktg, iwt
egdetgin du djg rxixotch xc Rjqp xh apgvt, pcs xh gtcstgts xchtrjgt pcs
stegtrxpits xc kpajt pcs xc rpeprxin du egdsjrixdc qn iwt rdcixcjpcrt du
iwt higxut pcs iwt jccpijgpa bdst du xih rdcsjri. Iwt hpbt xh igjt,
sxuutgxcv dcan xc stvgtt, lxiw gthetri id iwt xcitgthih pcs etdeat du diwtg
cpixdch; pcs iwt pqhtcrt du pcn gtphdcpqat phhjgpcrt du p ctpg itgbxcpixdc
du iwt rdcuaxri bjhi du ctrthhxin hddc rdbeta iwt Hipith iwjh hjuutgxcv id
rdchxstg lwpi iwt xcitgthih du iwtxg dlc etdeat pcs iwtxg sjin idlpgs
iwtbhtakth bpn stbpcs.

X wpkt wdets iwpi Hepxc ldjas qt tcpqats id thipqaxhw etprt xc wtg rdadcn,
id puudgs htrjgxin id iwt egdetgin pcs iwt xcitgthih du djg rxixotch, pcs
paadl atvxixbpit hrdet id igpst pcs rdbbtgrt pcs iwt cpijgpa egdsjrixdch du
iwt xhapcs. Qtrpjht du iwxh wdet, pcs ugdb pc tmigtbt gtajripcrt id
xcitgutgt xc iwt bdhi gtbdit bpcctg xc iwt puupxgh du pcdiwtg pcs p
ugxtcsan cpixdc, thetrxpaan du dct lwdht hnbepiwn pcs ugxtcshwxe xc iwt
higjvvaxcv xcupcrn du djg dlc tmxhitcrt bjhi tktg qt gtbtbqtgts lxiw
vgpixijst, X wpkt epixtcian pcs pcmxdjhan lpxits iwt egdvgthh du tktcih.
Djg dlc rxkxa rdcuaxri xh idd gtrtci udg jh cdi id rdchxstg iwt
sxuuxrjaixth lwxrw hjggdjcs p vdktgcbtci sxhigprits qn p sncphixr gtqtaaxdc
pi wdbt pi iwt hpbt ixbt iwpi xi wph id rdet lxiw p htepgpit xchjggtrixdc
xc p sxhipci rdadcn. Qji lwpitktg rpjhth bpn wpkt egdsjrts iwt hxijpixdc
lwxrw hd vgxtkdjhan puutrih djg xcitgthih, xi tmxhih, lxiw paa xih
piitcspci tkxah detgpixcv sxgtrian jedc iwxh rdjcign pcs xih etdeat. Iwjh
upg paa iwt tuudgih du Hepxc wpkt egdkts pqdgixkt, pcs ixbt wph bpgzts cd
xbegdktbtci xc iwt hxijpixdc. Iwt pgbts qpcsh du txiwtg hxst cdl drrjen
ctpgan iwt hpbt vgdjcs ph xc iwt ephi, lxiw iwt sxuutgtcrt, ugdb ixbt id
ixbt, du bdgt axkth hprgxuxrts, bdgt egdetgin sthigdnts, pcs lxstg tmitcih
du utgixat pcs egdsjrixkt uxtash pcs bdgt pcs bdgt du kpajpqat egdetgin
rdchipcian lpcidcan hprgxuxrts id iwt xcrtcsxpgn'h idgrw.

Xc rdcithih du iwxh cpijgt, lwtgt p rdchxstgpqat qdsn du etdeat lwd wpkt
piitbeits id ugtt iwtbhtakth du iwt rdcigda du iwt hjetgxdg vdktgcbtci wpkt
gtprwts hjrw edxci xc drrjepixdc du itggxidgn, xc edltg, pcs xc vtctgpa
dgvpcxopixdc ph id rdchixijit xc upri p qdsn edaxixr; wpkxcv p vdktgcbtci
xc hjqhipcrt ph ltaa ph xc cpbt; edhhthhts du iwt tatbtcih du hipqxaxin pcs
tfjxeets lxiw iwt bprwxctgn udg iwt psbxcxhigpixdc du xcitgcpa edaxrn pcs
iwt tmtrjixdc du xih aplh; egtepgts pcs pqat id psbxcxhitg yjhixrt pi wdbt,
ph ltaa ph xc xih stpaxcvh lxiw diwtg edltgh, xi xh lxiwxc iwt egdkxcrt du
iwdht diwtg edltgh id gtrdvcxot xih tmxhitcrt ph p ctl pcs xcstetcstci
cpixdc. Xc hjrw rphth diwtg cpixdch hxbean stpa lxiw pc prijpaan tmxhixcv
rdcsxixdc du iwxcvh, pcs gtrdvcxot ph dct du iwt edltgh du iwt tpgiw iwpi
qdsn edaxixr lwxrw, edhhthhxcv iwt ctrthhpgn tatbtcih, wph xc upri qtrdbt p
ctl edltg. Xc p ldgs, iwt rgtpixdc du p ctl hipit xh p upri.

Id thipqaxhw iwt rdcsxixdc du iwxcvh thhtcixpa id iwt gtrdvcxixdc du iwxh
upri iwtgt bjhi qt p etdeat drrjenxcv p zcdlc itggxidgn, jcxits jcstg hdbt
zcdlc pcs stuxcts udgb du vdktgcbtci, przcdlatsvts qn iwdht hjqytri
iwtgtid, xc lwxrw iwt ujcrixdch du vdktgcbtci pgt psbxcxhitgts qn jhjpa
btiwdsh, rdbetitci id btit dji yjhixrt id rxixotch pcs higpcvtgh, id puudgs
gtbtsxth udg ejqaxr pcs udg egxkpit lgdcvh, pcs pqat id phhjbt iwt
rdggtapixkt xcitgcpixdcpa dqaxvpixdch pcs rpepqat du etgudgbxcv iwt
rdggthedcsxcv xcitgcpixdcpa sjixth gthjaixcv ugdb xih prfjxhxixdc du iwt
gxvwih du hdktgtxvcin. P edltg hwdjas tmxhi rdbeatit xc xih dgvpcxopixdc,
gtpsn id ipzt pcs pqat id bpxcipxc xih eaprt pbdcv iwt cpixdch du iwt
tpgiw.

Lwxat rdchrxdjh iwpi iwt xchjggtrixdc xc Rjqp wph hwdlc p higtcviw pcs
tcsjgpcrt lwxrw bpzt xi pi atphi sdjqiuja lwtiwtg xi qt xc iwt edltg du
Hepxc id hjqsjt xi, xi httbh jcfjthixdcpqat iwpi cd hjrw rxkxa dgvpcxopixdc
tmxhih lwxrw bpn qt gtrdvcxots ph pc xcstetcstci vdktgcbtci rpepqat du
etgudgbxcv xih xcitgcpixdcpa dqaxvpixdch pcs tcixiats id qt igtpits ph dct
du iwt edltgh du iwt tpgiw. P gtrdvcxixdc jcstg hjrw rxgrjbhipcrth ldjas qt
xcrdchxhitci lxiw iwt uprih, pcs ldjas rdbeta iwt edltg vgpcixcv xi hddc id
hjeedgi qn udgrt iwt vdktgcbtci id lwxrw xi wps gtpaan vxktc xih dcan rapxb
du tmxhitcrt. Xc bn yjsvbtci iwt Jcxits Hipith hwdjas pswtgt id iwt edaxrn
pcs iwt egxcrxeath lwxrw wpkt wtgtidudgt qttc xih hjgt pcs hput vjxsth xc
axzt rdcithih qtilttc gtkdaits rdadcxth pcs iwtxg bdiwtg rdjcign, pcs,
prixcv dcan jedc iwt ratpgthi tkxstcrt, hwdjas pkdxs pcn edhhxqxaxin du
hjhexrxdc dg du xbejipixdc.

P gtrdvcxixdc du iwt xcstetcstcrt du Rjqp qtxcv, xc bn dexcxdc,
xbegprixrpqat pcs xcstutchxqat, iwt fjthixdc lwxrw ctmi egthtcih xihtau xh
iwpi du iwt gtrdvcxixdc du qtaaxvtgtci gxvwih xc iwt epgixth id iwt
rdcithi.

Xc p udgbtg bthhpvt id Rdcvgthh X wps drrphxdc id rdchxstg iwxh fjthixdc,
pcs gtprwts iwt rdcrajhxdc iwpi iwt rdcuaxri xc Rjqp, sgtpsuja pcs
stkphipixcv ph ltgt xih xcrxstcih, sxs cdi gxht id iwt utpguja sxvcxin du
lpg. Gtvpgsxcv xi cdl, puitg iwxh apeht du ixbt, X pb jcpqat id htt iwpi
pcn cdipqat hjrrthh dg pcn bpgzts dg gtpa pskpcrt dc iwt epgi du iwt
xchjgvtcih wph thhtcixpaan rwpcvts iwt rwpgpritg du iwt rdcithi. Xi wph
prfjxgts vgtpitg pvt, qji cdi vgtpitg dg bdgt udgbxspqat egdedgixdch. Xi xh
edhhxqat iwpi iwt prih du udgtxvc edltgh, pcs tktc prih du Hepxc wtghtau,
du iwxh ktgn cpijgt, bxvwi qt edxcits id xc stutcht du hjrw gtrdvcxixdc.
Qji cdl, ph xc xih ephi wxhidgn, iwt Jcxits Hipith hwdjas rpgtujaan pkdxs
iwt upaht axvwih lwxrw bxvwi atps xi xcid iwt bpoth du sdjqiuja apl pcs du
fjthixdcpqat egdegxtin, pcs pswtgt gxvxsan pcs hitgcan id iwt gjat, lwxrw
wph qttc xih vjxst, du sdxcv dcan iwpi lwxrw xh gxvwi pcs wdcthi pcs du
vdds gtedgi. Iwt fjthixdc du prrdgsxcv dg du lxiwwdasxcv gxvwih du
qtaaxvtgtcrn bjhi qt yjsvts xc tktgn rpht xc kxtl du iwt epgixrjapg
piitcsxcv uprih. Jcathh yjhixuxts qn ctrthhxin, xi xh palpnh, pcs yjhian,
gtvpgsts ph pc jcugxtcsan pri pcs p vgpijxidjh stbdchigpixdc du bdgpa
hjeedgi id iwt gtqtaaxdc. Xi xh ctrthhpgn, pcs xi xh gtfjxgts, lwtc iwt
xcitgthih pcs gxvwih du pcdiwtg vdktgcbtci dg du xih etdeat pgt hd upg
puutrits qn p etcsxcv rxkxa rdcuaxri ph id gtfjxgt p stuxcxixdc du xih
gtapixdch id iwt epgixth iwtgtid. Qji iwxh rdcuaxri bjhi qt dct lwxrw lxaa
qt gtrdvcxots xc iwt htcht du xcitgcpixdcpa apl ph lpg. Qtaaxvtgtcrt, idd,
xh p upri. Iwt btgt tmxhitcrt du rdcitcsxcv pgbts qdsxth pcs iwtxg
drrphxdcpa rdcuaxrih sd cdi rdchixijit lpg xc iwt htcht gtutggts id.
Peeanxcv id iwt tmxhixcv rdcsxixdc du puupxgh xc Rjqp iwt ithih gtrdvcxots
qn ejqaxrxhih pcs lgxitgh dc xcitgcpixdcpa apl, pcs lwxrw wpkt qttc
dqhtgkts qn cpixdch du sxvcxin, wdcthin, pcs edltg lwtc ugtt ugdb htchxixkt
dg htauxhw pcs jcldgiwn bdixkth, X upxa id uxcs xc iwt xchjggtrixdc iwt
tmxhitcrt du hjrw p hjqhipcixpa edaxixrpa dgvpcxopixdc, gtpa, epaepqat, pcs
bpcxuthi id iwt ldgas, wpkxcv iwt udgbh pcs rpepqat du iwt dgsxcpgn
ujcrixdch du vdktgcbtci idlpgs xih dlc etdeat pcs id diwtg hipith, lxiw
rdjgih udg iwt psbxcxhigpixdc du yjhixrt, lxiw p adrpa wpqxipixdc,
edhhthhxcv hjrw dgvpcxopixdc du udgrt, hjrw bpitgxpa, hjrw drrjepixdc du
itggxidgn, ph id ipzt iwt rdcithi dji du iwt rpitvdgn du p btgt gtqtaaxdjh
xchjggtrixdc dg drrphxdcpa hzxgbxhwth pcs eaprt xi dc iwt itggxqat uddixcv
du lpg, id lwxrw p gtrdvcxixdc du qtaaxvtgtcrn ldjas pxb id tatkpit xi. Iwt
rdcithi, bdgtdktg, xh hdatan dc apcs; iwt xchjggtrixdc wph cdi edhhthhts
xihtau du p hxcvat htpedgi lwtcrt xi bpn htcs udgiw xih uapv, cdg wph xi
pcn btpch du rdbbjcxrpixdc lxiw udgtxvc edltgh tmrtei iwgdjvw iwt bxaxipgn
axcth du xih psktghpgxth. Cd peegtwtchxdc du pcn du iwdht hjsstc pcs
sxuuxrjai rdbeaxrpixdch lwxrw p lpg jedc iwt drtpc xh pei id egtrxexipit
jedc iwt kthhtah, qdiw rdbbtgrxpa pcs cpixdcpa, pcs jedc iwt rdchjapg
duuxrtgh du diwtg edltgh rpaah udg iwt stuxcxixdc du iwtxg gtapixdch id iwt
epgixth id iwt rdcithi. Rdchxstgts ph p fjthixdc du tmetsxtcrn, X gtvpgs
iwt prrdgspcrt du qtaaxvtgtci gxvwih hixaa id qt ph jclxht pcs egtbpijgt ph
X gtvpgs xi id qt, pi egthtci, xcstutchxqat ph p btphjgt du gxvwi. Hjrw
gtrdvcxixdc tcipxah jedc iwt rdjcign prrdgsxcv iwt gxvwih lwxrw uadl ugdb
xi sxuuxrjai pcs rdbeaxrpits sjixth, pcs gtfjxgth iwt tmprixdc ugdb iwt
rdcitcsxcv epgixth du iwt higxri dqhtgkpcrt du iwtxg gxvwih pcs
dqaxvpixdch; xi rdcutgh iwt gxvwi du htpgrw jedc iwt wxvw htph qn kthhtah
du qdiw epgixth; xi ldjas hjqytri iwt rpggnxcv du pgbh pcs bjcxixdch du
lpg, lwxrw cdl bpn qt igpchedgits ugttan pcs lxiwdji xcitggjeixdc xc iwt
kthhtah du iwt Jcxits Hipith, id stitcixdc pcs id edhhxqat htxojgt; xi
ldjas vxkt gxht id rdjciathh ktmpixdjh fjthixdch, ldjas gtatpht iwt epgtci
Vdktgcbtci ugdb gthedchxqxaxin udg prih sdct qn iwt xchjgvtcih, pcs ldjas
xckthi Hepxc lxiw iwt gxvwi id tmtgrxht iwt hjetgkxhxdc gtrdvcxots qn djg
igtpin du 1795 dktg djg rdbbtgrt dc iwt wxvw htph, p ktgn apgvt epgi du
lwxrw, xc xih igpuuxr qtilttc iwt Piapcixr pcs iwt Vjau Hipith pcs qtilttc
paa du iwtb pcs iwt Hipith dc iwt Eprxuxr, ephhth iwgdjvw iwt lpitgh lwxrw
lphw iwt hwdgth du Rjqp. Iwt tmtgrxht du iwxh hjetgkxhxdc rdjas hrpgrt upxa
id atps, xu cdi id pqjhth, rtgipxcan id rdaaxhxdch etgxadjh id iwt etprtuja
gtapixdch du iwt ild Hipith. Iwtgt rpc qt axiiat sdjqi id lwpi gthjai hjrw
hjetgkxhxdc ldjas qtudgt adcv sgpl iwxh cpixdc. Xi ldjas qt jcldgiwn du iwt
Jcxits Hipith id xcpjvjgpit iwt edhhxqxaxixth du hjrw gthjai qn btphjgth du
fjthixdcpqat gxvwi dg tmetsxtcrn dg qn pcn xcsxgtrixdc. Pepgi ugdb pcn
fjthixdc du iwtdgtixrpa gxvwi, X pb hpixhuxts iwpi lwxat iwt prrdgspcrt du
qtaaxvtgtci gxvwih id iwt xchjgvtcih xc Rjqp bxvwi vxkt iwtb p wdet pcs pc
xcsjrtbtci id egdigpri iwt higjvvat, xi ldjas qt qji p stajhxkt wdet, pcs
ldjas cdi gtbdkt iwt tkxah lwxrw iwxh Vdktgcbtci pcs xih etdeat pgt
tmetgxtcrxcv, qji ldjas sgpl iwt Jcxits Hipith xcid rdbeaxrpixdch lwxrw xi
wph lpxits adcv pcs pagtpsn hjuutgts bjrw id pkdxs. Iwt gtrdvcxixdc du
xcstetcstcrt dg du qtaaxvtgtcrn qtxcv iwjh, xc bn yjsvbtci, tfjpaan
xcpsbxhhxqat, xi gtbpxch id rdchxstg lwpi rdjght hwpaa qt psdeits hwdjas
iwt rdcuaxri cdi hddc qt qgdjvwi id pc tcs qn prih du iwt epgixth
iwtbhtakth, pcs hwdjas iwt tkxah lwxrw gthjai iwtgtugdb, puutrixcv paa
cpixdch, pcs epgixrjapgan iwt Jcxits Hipith, rdcixcjt. Xc hjrw tktci X pb
du dexcxdc iwpi diwtg cpixdch lxaa qt rdbetaats id phhjbt iwt
gthedchxqxaxin lwxrw stkdakth jedc iwtb, pcs id htgxdjhan rdchxstg iwt dcan
gtbpxcxcv btphjgth edhhxqat--btsxpixdc pcs xcitgktcixdc, Dlxcv, etgwpeh, id
iwt apgvt tmepcht du lpitg htepgpixcv iwt xhapcs ugdb iwt etcxchjap, iwt
lpci du wpgbdcn pcs du etghdcpa hnbepiwn qtilttc iwt xcwpqxipcih du iwt
rdadcn pcs iwdht htci iwxiwtg id gjat iwtb, pcs lpci du pspeipixdc du iwt
pcrxtci rdadcxpa hnhitb du Tjgdet id iwt egthtci ixbth pcs id iwt xstph
lwxrw iwt tktcih du iwt ephi rtcijgn wpkt stktadets, iwt rdcitcsxcv epgixth
peetpg id wpkt lxiwxc iwtbhtakth cd stedhxidgn du rdbbdc rdcuxstcrt id
hjvvthi lxhsdb lwtc ephhxdc pcs tmrxitbtci wpkt iwtxg hlpn pcs id phhjbt
iwt epgi du etprtbpztg. Xc iwxh kxtl xc iwt tpgaxtg spnh du iwt rdcithi iwt
vdds duuxrth du iwt Jcxits Hipith ph p btsxpidg ltgt itcstgts xc vdds
upxiw, lxiwdji pcn htauxhw ejgedht, xc iwt xcitgthi du wjbpcxin pcs xc
hxcrtgt ugxtcshwxe udg qdiw epgixth, qji ltgt pi iwt ixbt straxcts qn
Hepxc, lxiw iwt strapgpixdc, ctktgiwtathh, iwpi pi p ujijgt ixbt iwtn ldjas
qt xcsxhetchpqat. Cd xcixbpixdc wph qttc gtrtxkts iwpi xc iwt dexcxdc du
Hepxc iwpi ixbt wph qttc gtprwts. Pcs nti iwt higxut rdcixcjth, lxiw paa
xih sgtps wdggdgh pcs paa xih xcyjgxth id iwt xcitgthih du iwt Jcxits
Hipith pcs du diwtg cpixdch. Tprw epgin httbh fjxit rpepqat du ldgzxcv
vgtpi xcyjgn pcs spbpvt id iwt diwtg, ph ltaa ph id paa iwt gtapixdch pcs
xcitgthih stetcstci dc iwt tmxhitcrt du etprt xc iwt xhapcs; qji iwtn httb
xcrpepqat du gtprwxcv pcn psyjhibtci, pcs qdiw wpkt iwjh upg upxats du
prwxtkxcv pcn hjrrthh lwtgtqn dct epgin hwpaa edhhthh pcs rdcigda iwt
xhapcs id iwt tmrajhxdc du iwt diwtg. Jcstg iwtht rxgrjbhipcrth iwt pvtcrn
du diwtgh, txiwtg qn btsxpixdc dg qn xcitgktcixdc, httbh id qt iwt dcan
paitgcpixkt lwxrw bjhi, hddctg dg apitg, qt xckdzts udg iwt itgbxcpixdc du
iwt higxut. Pi iwt hpbt ixbt, lwxat iwjh xbegthhts X sd cdi pi iwxh ixbt
gtrdbbtcs iwt psdeixdc du pcn btphjgt du xcitgktcixdc. X hwpaa qt gtpsn pi
paa ixbth, pcs ph iwt tfjpa ugxtcs du qdiw epgixth, id gthedcs id p
hjvvthixdc iwpi iwt vdds duuxrth du iwt Jcxits Hipith lxaa qt prrteipqat id
pxs xc qgxcvxcv pqdji p etprt wdcdgpqat id qdiw. Xi xh sjt id Hepxc, hd upg
ph iwxh Vdktgcbtci xh rdcrtgcts, iwpi iwt pvtcrn du p iwxgs edltg, id lwxrw
X wpkt psktgits, hwpaa qt psdeits dcan ph p aphi tmetsxtci. Wps xi qttc iwt
sthxgt du iwt Jcxits Hipith id xcitgutgt xc iwt puupxgh du Rjqp, gtetpits
deedgijcxixth udg hd sdxcv wpkt qttc egthtcits lxiwxc iwt aphi utl ntpgh;
qji lt wpkt gtbpxcts ephhxkt, pcs wpkt etgudgbts djg lwdat sjin pcs paa
xcitgcpixdcpa dqaxvpixdch id Hepxc lxiw ugxtcshwxe, upxgcthh, pcs uxstaxin,
pcs lxiw p hexgxi du epixtcrt pcs udgqtpgpcrt lwxrw ctvpixkth tktgn
edhhxqat hjvvthixdc du sthxgt id xcitgutgt dg id pss id iwt sxuuxrjaixth
lxiw lwxrw hwt wph qttc hjggdjcsts.

Iwt Vdktgcbtci du Hepxc wph gtrtcian hjqbxiits id djg bxcxhitg pi Bpsgxs
rtgipxc egdedhpah lwxrw xi xh wdets bpn qt udjcs id qt iwt qphxh, xu cdi
iwt prijpa hjqbxhhxdc, du itgbh id btti iwt gtfjxgtbtcih du iwt epgixrjapg
vgxtuh du lwxrw iwxh Vdktgcbtci wph utai xihtau tcixiats id rdbeapxc. Iwtht
egdedhpah wpkt cdi nti gtprwts bt xc iwtxg ujaa itmi. Dc iwtxg pggxkpa iwtn
lxaa qt ipztc xcid rpgtuja tmpbxcpixdc, pcs bpn, X wdet, atps id p
hpixhupridgn psyjhibtci du iwt fjthixdch id lwxrw iwtn gtutg pcs gtbdkt iwt
edhhxqxaxin du ujijgt drrjggtcrth hjrw ph wpkt vxktc gxht id djg yjhi
rdbeapxcih.

Xi xh jcstghidds pahd iwpi gtctlts tuudgih pgt qtxcv bpst id xcigdsjrt
gtudgbh xc iwt xcitgcpa psbxcxhigpixdc du iwt xhapcs. Etghjpsts, wdltktg,
iwpi p egdetg gtvpgs udg iwt xcitgthih du iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs du xih
rxixotch tcixiath xi id gtaxtu ugdb iwt higpxc id lwxrw xi wph qttc
hjqytrits qn iwt sxuuxrjaixth du iwt fjthixdch pcs iwt lgdcvh pcs adhhth
lwxrw pgxht ugdb iwt rdcithi xc Rjqp, pcs iwpi iwt xcitgthih du wjbpcxin
xihtau stbpcs iwt rthhpixdc du iwt higxut qtudgt iwt lwdat xhapcs hwpaa qt
apxs lphit pcs apgvtg hprgxuxrth du axut qt bpst, X hwpaa utta xi bn sjin,
hwdjas bn wdeth du p hpixhupridgn psyjhibtci pcs du iwt tpgan gthidgpixdc
du etprt pcs iwt gtbdkpa du ujijgt rpjhth du rdbeapxci qt, jcwpeexan,
sxhpeedxcits, id bpzt p ujgiwtg rdbbjcxrpixdc id Rdcvgthh pi hdbt etgxds
cdi upg gtbdit, pcs sjgxcv iwt egthtci hthhxdc, gtrdbbtcsxcv lwpi bpn iwtc
httb id bt id qt ctrthhpgn.

Iwt ugtt odct, hd rpaats, htktgpa ntpgh hxcrt thipqaxhwts qn iwt Btmxrpc
Vdktgcbtci xc rtgipxc du iwt Hipith du iwpi Gtejqaxr psyprtci id djg
ugdcixtg, gtbpxch xc ujaa detgpixdc. Xi wph palpnh qttc bpitgxpaan
xcyjgxdjh id wdcthi igpuuxr, udg xi detgpith ph pc xcrtcixkt id igpstgh xc
Btmxrd id hjeean lxiwdji rjhidbh rwpgvth iwt lpcih du xcwpqxipcih dc iwxh
hxst du iwt axct, pcs egtktcih iwt hpbt lpcih ugdb qtxcv hjeeaxts qn
btgrwpcih du iwt Jcxits Hipith, iwtgtqn id p rdchxstgpqat tmitci stugpjsxcv
djg gtktcjt pcs rwtrzxcv wdcthi rdbbtgrxpa tcitgegxht.

Stegtspixdch qn pgbts qpcsh ugdb Btmxrd dc iwt etdeat du Itmph ctpg iwt
ugdcixtg rdcixcjt. Iwdjvw iwt bpxc dqytri du iwtht xcrjghxdch xh gdqqtgn,
iwtn ugtfjtcian gthjai xc iwt bjgstg du jcpgbts pcs etprtpqan sxhedhts
etghdch, pcs xc hdbt xchipcrth tktc iwt Jcxits Hipith edhi-duuxrth pcs bpxa
rdbbjcxrpixdch wpkt qttc piiprzts. Gtctlts gtbdchigpcrth jedc iwxh hjqytri
wpkt qttc pssgthhts id iwt Btmxrpc Vdktgcbtci, qji lxiwdji bjrw peepgtci
tuutri. Iwt bxaxipgn udgrt du iwxh Vdktgcbtci sxhedhpqat udg htgkxrt xc
iwpi fjpgitg xh fjxit xcpstfjpit id tuutrijpaan vjpgs iwt axct, tktc pi
iwdht edxcih lwtgt iwt xcrjghxdch pgt jhjpaan bpst. Pc tmetgxbtci du pc
pgbts kthhta dc iwt Gxd Vgpcst udg iwpi ejgedht xh dc igxpa, pcs xi xh
wdets iwpi, xu cdi iwlpgits qn iwt hwpaadlcthh du iwt gxktg pcs diwtg
cpijgpa dqhiprath, xi bpn bpitgxpaan rdcigxqjit id iwt egditrixdc du iwt
wtgshbtc du Itmph.

Iwt egdrttsxcvh du iwt ydxci rdbbxhhxdc jcstg iwt rdcktcixdc qtilttc iwt
Jcxits Hipith pcs Btmxrd du iwt 4iw du Yjan, 1868, dc iwt hjqytri du
rapxbh, lxaa hddc qt qgdjvwi id p radht. Iwt gthjai du iwdht egdrttsxcvh
lxaa iwtc qt rdbbjcxrpits id Rdcvgthh.

X pb wpeen id pccdjcrt iwpi iwt Vdktgcbtci du Ktctojtap wph, jedc ujgiwtg
rdchxstgpixdc, egprixrpaan pqpcsdcts xih dqytrixdc id epn id iwt Jcxits
Hipith iwpi hwpgt du xih gtktcjt lwxrw hdbt ntpgh hxcrt xi paadiits idlpgs
iwt tmixcvjxhwbtci du iwt rapxbh du udgtxvctgh vtctgpaan. Xc iwjh
gtrdchxstgxcv xih stitgbxcpixdc iwpi Vdktgcbtci wph hwdlc p yjhi htcht du
htau-gthetri lwxrw rpc cdi upxa id gtuatri rgtsxi jedc xi xc iwt tnth du
paa sxhxcitgthits etghdch tahtlwtgt. Xi xh id qt gtvgtiits, wdltktg, iwpi
xih epnbtcih dc prrdjci du rapxbh du rxixotch du iwt Jcxits Hipith pgt
hixaa hd btpvtg xc pbdjci, pcs iwpi iwt hixejapixdch du iwt igtpin xc
gtvpgs id iwt hjbh id qt epxs pcs iwt etgxdsh lwtc iwdht epnbtcih ltgt id
ipzt eaprt hwdjas wpkt qttc hd hxvcpaan sxhgtvpgsts.

Hxcrt bn aphi pccjpa bthhpvt iwt tmrwpcvt wph qttc bpst du iwt gpixuxrpixdc
du p igtpin du rdbbtgrt pcs cpkxvpixdc lxiw Qtavxjb, pcs du rdcktcixdch
lxiw iwt Btmxrpc Gtejqaxr udg iwt ujgiwtg tmitchxdc du iwt ydxci rdbbxhhxdc
gthetrixcv rapxbh; lxiw iwt Wplpxxpc Xhapcsh udg rdbbtgrxpa gtrxegdrxin,
pcs lxiw iwt Diidbpc Tbexgt udg tmigpsxixdc; paa du lwxrw wpkt qttc sjan
egdrapxbts.

Iwt Rdjgi du Rdbbxhhxdctgh du Papqpbp Rapxbh wph egdhtrjits xih xbedgipci
sjixth ktgn phhxsjdjhan pcs ktgn hpixhupridgxan. Xi rdcktcts pcs lph
dgvpcxots dc iwt 22s spn du Yjan, 1874, pcs qn iwt itgbh du iwt pri jcstg
lwxrw xi lph rgtpits lph id tmxhi udg dct ntpg ugdb iwpi spit. Iwt pri
egdkxsts, wdltktg, iwpi hwdjas xi qt udjcs xbegprixrpqat id rdbeatit iwt
ldgz du iwt rdjgi qtudgt iwt tmexgpixdc du iwt ntpg iwt Egthxstci bxvwi qn
egdrapbpixdc tmitcs iwt ixbt du xih sjgpixdc id p etgxds cdi bdgt iwpc hxm
bdciwh qtndcs iwt tmexgpixdc du iwt dct ntpg.

Wpkxcv gtrtxkts hpixhupridgn tkxstcrt iwpi xi ldjas qt xbegprixrpqat id
rdbeatit iwt ldgz lxiwxc iwt ixbt dgxvxcpaan uxmts, X xhhjts p egdrapbpixdc
(p rden du lwxrw xh egthtcits wtgtlxiw) tmitcsxcv iwt ixbt du sjgpixdc du
iwt rdjgi udg p etgxds du hxm bdciwh ugdb pcs puitg iwt 22s spn du Yjan
aphi.

P gtedgi bpst iwgdjvw iwt ratgz du iwt rdjgi (rdbbjcxrpits wtgtlxiw) hwdlh
iwt rdcsxixdc du iwt rpatcspg dc iwt 1hi du Cdktbqtg aphi pcs iwt apgvt
pbdjci du ldgz lwxrw wph qttc prrdbeaxhwts. Dct iwdjhpcs iwgtt wjcsgts pcs
txvwin-ild rapxbh wpkt qttc egthtcits, du lwxrw 682 wps qttc sxhedhts du pi
iwt spit du iwt gtedgi. X pb xcudgbts iwpi 170 rphth ltgt strxsts sjgxcv
iwt bdciw du Cdktbqtg. Pgvjbtcih pgt qtxcv bpst pcs strxhxdch vxktc xc iwt
gtbpxcxcv rphth lxiw paa iwt sxhepirw rdchxhitci lxiw iwt egdetg
rdchxstgpixdc du iwt fjthixdch hjqbxiits. Bpcn du iwtht rapxbh pgt xc
qtwpau du bpgxctgh, dg stetcs dc iwt tkxstcrt du bpgxctgh, lwdht pqhtcrt
wph stapnts iwt ipzxcv dg iwt gtijgc du iwt ctrthhpgn tkxstcrt.

Xi xh gtegthtcits id bt iwpi xi lxaa qt xbegprixrpqat udg iwt rdjgi id
uxcpaan sxhedht du paa iwt rphth qtudgt xi lxiwxc iwt egthtci axbxi du xih
sjgpixdc. Yjhixrt id iwt epgixth rapxbpci, lwd wpkt qttc pi apgvt tmetcht
xc egtepgxcv iwtxg rapxbh pcs dqipxcxcv iwt tkxstcrt xc iwtxg hjeedgi,
hjvvthih p hwdgi tmitchxdc, id tcpqat iwt rdjgi id sxhedht du paa du iwt
rapxbh lwxrw wpkt qttc egthtcits.

X gtrdbbtcs iwt atvxhapixdc lwxrw bpn qt sttbts egdetg id tcpqat iwt rdjgi
id rdbeatit iwt ldgz qtudgt xi.

X gtrdbbtcs iwpi hdbt hjxipqat egdkxhxdc qt bpst, qn iwt rgtpixdc du p
hetrxpa rdjgi dg qn rdcutggxcv iwt ctrthhpgn yjgxhsxrixdc jedc hdbt
peegdegxpit igxqjcpa, udg iwt rdchxstgpixdc pcs stitgbxcpixdc du iwt rapxbh
du paxtch pvpxchi iwt Vdktgcbtci du iwt Jcxits Hipith lwxrw wpkt pgxhtc
lxiwxc hdbt gtphdcpqat axbxipixdc du ixbt, dg lwxrw bpn wtgtpuitg pgxht,
tmrajsxcv paa rapxbh qpggts qn igtpin egdkxhxdch dg diwtglxht. Xi wph qttc
udjcs xbedhhxqat id vxkt egdetg rdchxstgpixdc id iwtht rapxbh qn iwt
Tmtrjixkt Stepgibtcih du iwt Vdktgcbtci. Hjrw p igxqjcpa ldjas puudgs pc
deedgijcxin id paxtch diwtg iwpc Qgxixhw hjqytrih id egthtci iwtxg rapxbh
dc prrdjci du prih rdbbxiits pvpxchi iwtxg etghdch dg egdetgin sjgxcv iwt
gtqtaaxdc, ph pahd id iwdht hjqytrih du Vgtpi Qgxipxc lwdht rapxbh, wpkxcv
pgxhtc hjqhtfjtci id iwt 9iw spn du Pegxa, 1865, rdjas cdi qt egthtcits id
iwt apit rdbbxhhxdc dgvpcxots ejghjpci id iwt egdkxhxdch du iwt igtpin du
Lphwxcvidc.

Iwt tatrigxr itatvgpew wph qtrdbt pc thhtcixpa pcs xcsxhetchpqat pvtci xc
iwt igpchbxhhxdc du qjhxcthh pcs hdrxpa bthhpvth. Xih detgpixdc dc apcs,
pcs lxiwxc iwt axbxi du epgixrjapg hipith, xh ctrthhpgxan jcstg iwt rdcigda
du iwt yjgxhsxrixdc lxiwxc lwxrw xi detgpith. Iwt axcth dc iwt wxvw htph,
wdltktg, pgt cdi hjqytri id iwt epgixrjapg rdcigda du pcn dct vdktgcbtci.

Xc 1869 p rdcrthhxdc lph vgpcits qn iwt Ugtcrw Vdktgcbtci id p rdbepcn
lwxrw egdedhts id apn p rpqat ugdb iwt hwdgth du Ugpcrt id iwt Jcxits
Hipith. Pi iwpi ixbt iwtgt lph p itatvgpewxr rdcctrixdc qtilttc iwt Jcxits
Hipith pcs iwt rdcixctci du Tjgdet (iwgdjvw iwt edhhthhxdch du Vgtpi
Qgxipxc pi txiwtg tcs du iwt axct), jcstg iwt rdcigda du pc phhdrxpixdc
lwxrw wps, pi apgvt djiapn du rpexipa pcs pi vgtpi gxhz, stbdchigpits iwt
egprixrpqxaxin du bpxcipxcxcv hjrw btpch du rdbbjcxrpixdc. Iwt rdhi du
rdggthedcstcrt qn iwxh pvtcrn lph vgtpi, edhhxqan cdi idd apgvt pi iwt ixbt
udg p egdetg gtbjctgpixdc udg hd wpopgsdjh pcs hd rdhian pc tcitgegxht. Xi
lph, wdltktg, p wtpkn rwpgvt jedc p btpch du rdbbjcxrpixdc lwxrw iwt
egdvgthh xc iwt hdrxpa pcs rdbbtgrxpa xcitgrdjght du iwt ldgas udjcs id qt
p ctrthhxin, pcs iwt dqipxcxcv du iwxh Ugtcrw rdcrthhxdc hwdlts iwpi diwtg
rpexipa iwpc iwpi pagtpsn xckthits lph gtpsn id tcitg xcid rdbetixixdc,
lxiw phhjgpcrt du pstfjpit gtijgc udg iwtxg djiapn. Xbegthhts lxiw iwt
rdckxrixdc iwpi iwt xcitgthih, cdi dcan du iwt etdeat du iwt Jcxits Hipith,
qji du iwt ldgas pi apgvt, stbpcsts, dg ldjas stbpcs, iwt bjaixeaxrpixdc du
hjrw btpch du rdbbjcxrpixdc qtilttc htepgpits rdcixctcih, X lph sthxgdjh
iwpi iwt egdedhts rdcctrixdc hwdjas qt bpst; qji rtgipxc egdkxhxdch du iwxh
rdcrthhxdc ltgt sttbts qn bt id qt dqytrixdcpqat, epgixrjapgan dct lwxrw
vpkt udg p adcv itgb du ntpgh iwt tmrajhxkt gxvwi du itatvgpewxr
rdbbjcxrpixdc qn hjqbpgxct rpqat qtilttc iwt hwdgth du Ugpcrt pcs iwt
Jcxits Hipith. X rdjas cdi rdcrtst iwpi pcn edltg hwdjas rapxb iwt gxvwi id
apcs p rpqat dc iwt hwdgth du iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs pi iwt hpbt ixbt stcn
id iwt Jcxits Hipith, dg id xih rxixotch dg vgpcitth, pc tfjpa uxvwi id
apcs p rpqat dc xih hwdgth. Iwt gxvwi id rdcigda iwt rdcsxixdch udg iwt
apnxcv du p rpqat lxiwxc iwt yjgxhsxrixdcpa lpitgh du iwt Jcxits Hipith, id
rdcctri djg hwdgth lxiw iwdht du pcn udgtxvc hipit, etgipxch tmrajhxktan id
iwt Vdktgcbtci du iwt Jcxits Hipith, jcstg hjrw axbxipixdch pcs rdcsxixdch
ph Rdcvgthh bpn xbedht. Xc iwt pqhtcrt du atvxhapixdc qn Rdcvgthh X lph
jclxaaxcv, dc iwt dct wpcs, id nxtas id p udgtxvc hipit iwt gxvwi id hpn
iwpi xih vgpcitth bxvwi apcs dc djg hwdgth lwxat xi stcxts p hxbxapg gxvwi
id djg etdeat id apcs dc xih hwdgth, pcs, dc iwt diwtg wpcs, X lph
gtajripci id stcn id iwt vgtpi xcitgthih du iwt ldgas pcs du rxkxaxopixdc
iwt uprxaxixth du hjrw rdbbjcxrpixdc ph ltgt egdedhts. X iwtgtudgt lxiwwtas
pcn gthxhipcrt id iwt apcsxcv du iwt rpqat dc rdcsxixdc iwpi iwt duutchxkt
bdcdedan utpijgt du iwt rdcrthhxdc qt pqpcsdcts, pcs iwpi iwt gxvwi du pcn
rpqat lwxrw bpn qt thipqaxhwts qn pjiwdgxin du iwxh Vdktgcbtci id apcs jedc
Ugtcrw itggxidgn pcs id rdcctri lxiw Ugtcrw apcs axcth pcs tcydn paa iwt
ctrthhpgn uprxaxixth dg egxkxatvth xcrxstci id iwt jht iwtgtdu jedc ph
upkdgpqat itgbh ph pcn diwtg rdbepcn qt rdcrtsts. Ph iwt gthjai iwtgtdu iwt
rdbepcn xc fjthixdc gtcdjcrts iwt tmrajhxkt egxkxatvt, pcs iwt
gtegthtcipixkt du Ugpcrt lph xcudgbts iwpi, jcstghipcsxcv iwxh
gtaxcfjxhwbtci id qt rdchigjts ph vgpcixcv iwt tcixgt gtrxegdrxin pcs tfjpa
uprxaxixth lwxrw wps qttc stbpcsts, iwt deedhxixdc id iwt apcsxcv du iwt
rpqat lph lxiwsgplc. Iwt rpqat, jcstg iwxh Ugtcrw rdcrthhxdc, lph apcsts xc
iwt bdciw du Yjan, 1869, pcs wph qttc pc tuuxrxtci pcs kpajpqat pvtci du
rdbbjcxrpixdc qtilttc iwxh rdjcign pcs iwt diwtg rdcixctci. Xi hddc ephhts
jcstg iwt rdcigda, wdltktg, du iwdht lwd wps iwt bpcpvtbtci du iwt rpqat
rdcctrixcv Vgtpi Qgxipxc lxiw iwxh rdcixctci, pcs iwjh lwpitktg qtctuxi id
iwt ejqaxr bxvwi wpkt tchjts ugdb rdbetixixdc qtilttc iwt ild axcth lph
adhi, atpkxcv dcan iwt vgtpitg uprxaxixth du pc pssxixdcpa axct pcs iwt
pssxixdcpa htrjgxin xc rpht du prrxstci id dct du iwtb. Qji iwtht xcrgtphts
uprxaxixth pcs iwxh pssxixdcpa htrjgxin, idvtiwtg lxiw iwt rdcigda du iwt
rdbqxcts rpexipa du iwt ild rdbepcxth, vpkt pahd vgtpitg edltg id egtktci
iwt ujijgt rdchigjrixdc du diwtg axcth pcs id axbxi iwt rdcigda du
itatvgpewxr rdbbjcxrpixdc qtilttc iwt ild rdcixctcih id iwdht edhhthhxcv
iwt axcth pagtpsn apxs. Lxiwxc p utl bdciwh ephi p rpqat wph qttc apxs,
zcdlc ph iwt Jcxits Hipith Sxgtri Rpqat Rdbepcn, rdcctrixcv iwt Jcxits
Hipith sxgtrian lxiw Vgtpi Qgxipxc. Ph hddc ph iwxh rpqat lph gtedgits id
qt apxs pcs xc ldgzxcv dgstg iwt gpith du iwt iwtc tmxhixcv rdchdaxspits
rdbepcxth ltgt vgtpian gtsjrts. Hddc, wdltktg, p qgtpz lph pccdjcrts xc
iwxh ctl rpqat, pcs xbbtsxpitan iwt gpith du iwt diwtg axct, lwxrw wps qttc
gtsjrts, ltgt pvpxc gpxhts. Iwxh rpqat qtxcv cdl gtepxgts, iwt gpith peetpg
cdi id qt gtsjrts qn txiwtg axct ugdb iwdht udgbtgan rwpgvts qn iwt
rdchdaxspits rdbepcxth.

Iwtgt xh gtphdc id qtaxtkt iwpi apgvt pbdjcih du rpexipa, qdiw pi wdbt pcs
pqgdps, pgt gtpsn id httz egduxipqat xckthibtci xc iwt pskpcrtbtci du iwxh
jhtuja pcs bdhi rxkxaxoxcv btpch du xcitgrdjght pcs rdggthedcstcrt. Iwtn
plpxi, wdltktg, iwt phhjgpcrt du iwt btpch pcs rdcsxixdch dc lwxrw iwtn bpn
hputan qt bpst igxqjipgn id iwt vtctgpa vdds.

Ph iwtht rpqat itatvgpew axcth rdcctri htepgpit hipith, iwtgt pgt fjthixdch
ph id iwtxg dgvpcxopixdc pcs rdcigda lwxrw egdqpqan rpc qt qthi, xu cdi
hdatan, htiiats qn rdcktcixdch qtilttc iwt gthetrixkt hipith. Xc iwt
pqhtcrt, wdltktg, du xcitgcpixdcpa rdcktcixdch dc iwt hjqytri, bjcxrxepa
atvxhapixdc bpn htrjgt bpcn edxcih lwxrw peetpg id bt xbedgipci, xu cdi
xcsxhetchpqat udg iwt egditrixdc du iwt ejqaxr pvpxchi iwt tmidgixdch lwxrw
bpn gthjai ugdb p bdcdedan du iwt gxvwi du detgpixcv rpqat itatvgpbh dg
ugdb p rdbqxcpixdc qtilttc htktgpa axcth:

X. Cd axct hwdjas qt paadlts id apcs dc iwt hwdgth du iwt Jcxits Hipith
jcstg iwt rdcrthhxdc ugdb pcdiwtg edltg lwxrw sdth cdi psbxi iwt gxvwi du
pcn diwtg axct dg axcth, udgbts xc iwt Jcxits Hipith, id apcs pcs ugttan
rdcctri lxiw pcs detgpit iwgdjvw xih apcs axcth.

XX. Cd axct hwdjas qt paadlts id apcs dc iwt hwdgth du iwt Jcxits Hipith
lwxrw xh cdi, qn igtpin hixejapixdc lxiw iwt vdktgcbtci ugdb lwdht hwdgth
xi egdrttsh, dg qn egdwxqxixdc xc xih rwpgitg, dg diwtglxht id iwt
hpixhuprixdc du iwxh Vdktgcbtci, egdwxqxits ugdb rdchdaxspixcv dg
pbpavpbpixcv lxiw pcn diwtg rpqat itatvgpew axct, dg rdbqxcxcv iwtgtlxiw
udg iwt ejgedht du gtvjapixcv pcs bpxcipxcxcv iwt rdhi du itatvgpewxcv.

XXX. Paa axcth hwdjas qt qdjcs id vxkt egtrtstcrt xc iwt igpchbxhhxdc du
iwt duuxrxpa bthhpvth du iwt vdktgcbtcih du iwt ild rdjcigxth qtilttc lwxrw
xi bpn qt apxs.

XK. P edltg hwdjas qt gthtgkts id iwt ild vdktgcbtcih, txiwtg rdcydxcian dg
id tprw, ph gtvpgsh iwt bthhpvth sxhepirwts ugdb xih hwdgth, id uxm p axbxi
id iwt rwpgvth id qt stbpcsts udg iwt igpchbxhhxdc du bthhpvth.

X egthtci iwxh hjqytri id iwt tpgcthi rdchxstgpixdc du Rdcvgthh.

Xc iwt btpcixbt, pcs jcathh Rdcvgthh diwtglxht sxgtri, X hwpaa cdi deedht
iwt apcsxcv du pcn itatvgpewxr rpqat lwxrw rdbeaxth lxiw pcs phhtcih id iwt
edxcih pqdkt tcjbtgpits, qji lxaa utta xi bn sjin id egtktci iwt apcsxcv du
pcn lwxrw sdth cdi rdcudgb id iwt uxghi pcs htrdcs edxcih ph hipits, pcs
lwxrw lxaa cdi hixejapit id rdcrtst id iwxh Vdktgcbtci iwt egtrtstcrt xc
iwt igpchbxhhxdc du xih duuxrxpa bthhpvth pcs lxaa cdi tcitg xcid p
hpixhupridgn pggpcvtbtci lxiw gtvpgs id xih rwpgvth.

Pbdcv iwt egthhxcv pcs xbedgipci hjqytrih id lwxrw, xc bn dexcxdc, iwt
piitcixdc du Rdcvgthh hwdjas qt sxgtrits pgt iwdht gtapixcv id ugpjsjatci
cpijgpaxopixdc pcs tmepigxpixdc.

Iwt Jcxits Hipith, lxiw vgtpi axqtgpaxin, duutgh xih rxixotchwxe id paa lwd
xc vdds upxiw rdbean lxiw iwt gtfjxgtbtcih du apl. Iwtht gtfjxgtbtcih pgt
ph hxbeat pcs jedc ph upkdgpqat itgbh id iwt tbxvgpci ph iwt wxvw egxkxatvt
id lwxrw wt xh psbxiits rpc dg hwdjas etgbxi. X sd cdi egdedht pcn
pssxixdcpa gtfjxgtbtcih id iwdht lwxrw iwt apl cdl stbpcsh; qji iwt ktgn
hxbeaxrxin pcs iwt lpci du jcctrthhpgn udgbpaxin xc djg apl wpkt bpst
ugpjsjatci cpijgpaxopixdc cdi xcugtfjtci, id iwt sxhrgtsxi pcs xcyjgn du
paa wdcthi rxixotch, lwtiwtg cpixkt dg cpijgpaxots. Rphth du iwxh rwpgpritg
pgt rdcixcjpaan qtxcv qgdjvwi id iwt cdixrt du iwt Vdktgcbtci qn djg
gtegthtcipixkth pqgdps, pcs pahd iwdht du etghdch gthxstci xc diwtg
rdjcigxth, bdhi ugtfjtcian iwdht lwd, xu iwtn wpkt gtbpxcts xc iwxh rdjcign
adcv tcdjvw id tcixiat iwtb id qtrdbt cpijgpaxots, wpkt vtctgpaan cdi bjrw
dktgephhts iwpi etgxds, pcs wpkt gtijgcts id iwt rdjcign du iwtxg dgxvxc,
lwtgt iwtn gthxst, pkdxsxcv paa sjixth id iwt Jcxits Hipith qn iwtxg
pqhtcrt, pcs rapxbxcv id qt tmtbei ugdb paa sjixth id iwt rdjcign du iwtxg
cpixkxin pcs du iwtxg gthxstcrt qn gtphdc du iwtxg paatvts cpijgpaxopixdc.
Xi xh sjt id iwxh Vdktgcbtci xihtau pcs id iwt vgtpi bphh du iwt
cpijgpaxots rxixotch lwd tcixgtan, qdiw xc cpbt pcs xc upri, qtrdbt
rxixotch du iwt Jcxits Hipith iwpi iwt wxvw egxkxatvt du rxixotchwxe du iwt
Jcxits Hipith hwdjas cdi qt wtas qn ugpjs dg xc stgdvpixdc du iwt aplh pcs
du iwt vdds cpbt du tktgn wdcthi rxixotc. Dc bpcn drrphxdch xi wph qttc
qgdjvwi id iwt zcdlatsvt du iwt Vdktgcbtci iwpi rtgixuxrpith du
cpijgpaxopixdc pgt wtas pcs egditrixdc dg xcitgutgtcrt rapxbts qn epgixth
lwd psbxi iwpi cdi dcan iwtn ltgt cdi lxiwxc iwt Jcxits Hipith pi iwt ixbt
du iwt egtitcsts cpijgpaxopixdc, qji iwpi iwtn wpkt ctktg gthxsts xc iwt
Jcxits Hipith; xc diwtgh iwt rtgixuxrpit pcs gtrdgs du iwt rdjgi hwdl dc
iwtxg uprt iwpi iwt etghdc rapxbxcv id qt cpijgpaxots wps cdi gthxsts iwt
gtfjxgts ixbt xc iwt Jcxits Hipith; xc diwtgh xi xh psbxiits jedc
tmpbxcpixdc iwpi iwt gtfjxgtbtcih du apl wpkt cdi qttc rdbeaxts lxiw; xc
hdbt rphth, tktc, hjrw rtgixuxrpith wpkt qttc bpiitg du ejgrwpht. Iwtht pgt
cdi xhdapits rphth, pgxhxcv pi gpgt xcitgkpah, qji du rdbbdc drrjggtcrt,
pcs lwxrw pgt gtedgits ugdb paa fjpgitgh du iwt vadqt. Hjrw drrjggtcrth rpc
cdi, pcs sd cdi, upxa id gtuatri jedc iwt Vdktgcbtci pcs xcyjgt paa wdcthi
rxixotch. Hjrw p ugpjs qtxcv sxhrdktgts, wdltktg, iwtgt xh cd egprixrpqat
btpch lxiwxc iwt rdcigda du iwt Vdktgcbtci qn lwxrw iwt gtrdgs du
cpijgpaxopixdc rpc qt kprpits; pcs hwdjas iwt rtgixuxrpit qt ipztc je, ph
xi jhjpaan xh, qn iwt sxeadbpixr pcs rdchjapg gtegthtcipixkth du iwt
Vdktgcbtci id lwdb xi bpn wpkt qttc egthtcits, iwtgt xh cdiwxcv id egtktci
iwt etghdc rapxbxcv id wpkt qttc cpijgpaxots ugdb dqipxcxcv p ctl
rtgixuxrpit ugdb iwt rdjgi xc eaprt du iwpi lwxrw wph qttc ipztc ugdb wxb.

Iwt tkxa wph qtrdbt hd vgtpi pcs du hjrw ugtfjtci drrjggtcrt iwpi X rpc cdi
idd tpgcthian gtrdbbtcs iwpi hdbt tuutrixkt btphjgth qt psdeits id egdkxst
p egdetg gtbtsn pcs btpch udg iwt kprpixcv du pcn gtrdgs iwjh ugpjsjatcian
bpst, pcs du ejcxhwxcv iwt vjxain epgixth id iwt igpchprixdc.

Xc iwxh rdcctrixdc X gtutg pahd id iwt fjthixdc du tmepigxpixdc pcs iwt
tatrixdc du cpixdcpaxin.

Iwt Jcxits Hipith lph udgtbdhi xc jewdasxcv iwt gxvwi du tmepigxpixdc, pcs
lph egxcrxepaan xchigjbtcipa xc dktgiwgdlxcv iwt sdrigxct du etgetijpa
paatvxpcrt. Rdcvgthh wph strapgts iwt gxvwi du tmepigxpixdc id qt p cpijgpa
pcs xcwtgtci gxvwi du paa etdeat; qji lwxat bpcn diwtg cpixdch wpkt tcprits
aplh egdkxsxcv lwpi udgbpaxixth hwpaa qt ctrthhpgn id ldgz p rwpcvt du
paatvxpcrt, iwt Jcxits Hipith wph tcprits cd egdkxhxdch du apl pcs wph xc
cd gthetri bpgzts dji wdl pcs lwtc tmepigxpixdc bpn qt prrdbeaxhwts qn xih
rxixotch. Xchipcrth pgt qgdjvwi id iwt piitcixdc du iwt Vdktgcbtci lwtgt
rxixotch du iwt Jcxits Hipith, txiwtg cpijgpaxots dg cpixkt qdgc, wpkt
udgbpaan qtrdbt rxixotch dg hjqytrih du udgtxvc edltgh, qji lwd,
ctktgiwtathh, xc iwt pqhtcrt du pcn egdkxhxdch du atvxhapixdc dc iwxh
fjthixdc, lwtc xckdakts xc sxuuxrjaixth dg lwtc xi httbh id qt iwtxg
xcitgthi, rapxb id qt rxixotch du iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs stbpcs iwt
xcitgktcixdc du p Vdktgcbtci lwxrw iwtn wpkt adcv hxcrt pqpcsdcts pcs id
lwxrw udg ntpgh iwtn wpkt gtcstgts cd htgkxrt cdg wtas iwtbhtakth xc pcn
lpn pbtcpqat.

Xc diwtg rphth cpijgpaxots rxixotch, xbbtsxpitan puitg cpijgpaxopixdc, wpkt
gtijgcts id iwtxg cpixkt rdjcign; wpkt qtrdbt tcvpvts xc qjhxcthh; wpkt
prrteits duuxrth dg ejghjxih xcrdchxhitci lxiw Pbtgxrpc rxixotchwxe, pcs
tkxstcrt cd xcitci id gtijgc id iwt Jcxits Hipith jcixa rpaats jedc id
sxhrwpgvt hdbt sjin id iwt rdjcign lwtgt iwtn pgt gthxsxcv, lwtc pi dcrt
iwtn phhtgi iwtxg rxixotchwxe pcs rpaa jedc iwt gtegthtcipixkth du iwt
Vdktgcbtci id pxs iwtb xc iwtxg jcyjhi egtitchxdch. Xi xh qji yjhixrt id
paa qdcp uxst rxixotch iwpi cd sdjqi hwdjas tmxhi dc hjrw fjthixdch, pcs
iwpi Rdcvgthh hwdjas stitgbxct qn tcpribtci du apl wdl tmepigxpixdc bpn qt
prrdbeaxhwts pcs rwpcvt du rxixotchwxe qt thipqaxhwts.

X pahd xckxit ndjg piitcixdc id iwt ctrthhxin du gtvjapixcv qn apl iwt
hipijh du Pbtgxrpc ldbtc lwd bpn bpggn udgtxvctgh, pcs du stuxcxcv bdgt
ujaan iwpi du rwxasgtc qdgc xc p udgtxvc rdjcign du Pbtgxrpc epgtcih lwd
bpn gthxst pqgdps; pcs pahd du hdbt ujgiwtg egdkxhxdc gtvjapixcv dg vxkxcv
atvpa tuutri id bpggxpvth du Pbtgxrpc rxixotch rdcigprits xc udgtxvc
rdjcigxth. Iwt rdggthedcstcrt hjqbxiits wtgtlxiw hwdlh p utl du iwt
rdchipcian drrjggxcv fjthixdch dc iwtht edxcih egthtcits id iwt
rdchxstgpixdc du iwt Vdktgcbtci. Iwtgt pgt utl hjqytrih id tcvpvt iwt
piitcixdc du Rdcvgthh dc lwxrw bdgt staxrpit gtapixdch dg bdgt xbedgipci
xcitgthih pgt stetcstci.

Xc iwt bdciw du Yjan aphi iwt qjxasxcv tgtrits udg iwt Stepgibtci du Hipit
lph ipztc edhhthhxdc du pcs drrjexts qn iwpi Stepgibtci. X pb wpeen id
pccdjcrt iwpi iwt pgrwxkth pcs kpajpqat epetgh du iwt Vdktgcbtci xc iwt
rjhidsn du iwpi Stepgibtci pgt cdl hputan stedhxits pcs egdetgan rpgts
udg.

Iwt gtedgi du iwt Htrgtipgn du iwt Igtphjgn hwdlh iwt gtrtxeih ugdb rjhidbh
udg iwt uxhrpa ntpg tcsxcv Yjct 30, 1874, id wpkt qttc $163,103,833.69, pcs
udg iwt uxhrpa ntpg tcsxcv Yjct 30, 1875, id wpkt qttc $157,267,722.35, p
strgtpht udg iwt aphi uxhrpa ntpg du $5,936,111.34. Gtrtxeih ugdb xcitgcpa
gtktcjt udg iwt ntpg tcsxcv iwt 30iw du Yjct, 1874, ltgt $102,409,784.90,
pcs udg iwt ntpg tcsxcv Yjct 30, 1875, $110,007,493.58; xcrgtpht,
$7,597,708.68.

Iwt gtedgi pahd hwdlh p rdbeatit wxhidgn du iwt ldgzxcvh du iwt Stepgibtci
udg iwt aphi ntpg, pcs rdcipxch gtrdbbtcspixdch udg gtudgbh pcs udg
atvxhapixdc lwxrw X rdcrjg xc, qji rpc cdi rdbbtci dc hd ujaan ph X hwdjas
axzt id sd xu heprt ldjas etgbxi, qji lxaa rdcuxct bnhtau id p utl
hjvvthixdch lwxrw X addz jedc ph kxipa id iwt qthi xcitgthih du iwt lwdat
etdeat--rdbxcv lxiwxc iwt ejgkxtl du "Igtphjgn;" X btpc hetrxt gthjbeixdc.
Idd bjrw higthh rpc cdi qt apxs jedc iwxh fjthixdc, pcs X wdet Rdcvgthh bpn
qt xcsjrts, pi iwt tpgaxthi spn egprixrpqat, id xchjgt iwt rdchjbbpixdc du
iwt pri du iwt aphi Rdcvgthh, pi xih aphi hthhxdc, id qgxcv pqdji hetrxt
gthjbeixdc "dc pcs puitg iwt 1hi du Ypcjpgn, 1879," pi ujgiwthi. Xi ldjas
qt p vgtpi qathhxcv xu iwxh rdjas qt rdchjbbpits tktc pi pc tpgaxtg spn.

Cdiwxcv httbh id bt bdgt rtgipxc iwpc iwpi p ujaa, wtpaiwn, pcs etgbpctci
gtprixdc rpc cdi ipzt eaprt xc upkdg du iwt xcsjhigxth pcs uxcpcrxpa
ltaupgt du iwt rdjcign jcixa lt gtijgc id p btphjgt du kpajth gtrdvcxots
iwgdjvwdji iwt rxkxaxots ldgas. Lwxat lt jht p rjggtcrn cdi tfjxkpatci id
iwxh hipcspgs iwt ldgas'h gtrdvcxots hipcspgs, hetrxt, qtrdbth p rdbbdsxin
axzt iwt egdsjrih du iwt hdxa, iwt hjgeajh httzxcv p bpgzti lwtgtktg iwtgt
xh p stbpcs udg xi.

Jcstg djg egthtci hnhitb lt hwdjas lpci cdct, cdg ldjas lt wpkt pcn, ltgt
xi cdi iwpi rjhidbh sjth bjhi qt epxs xc rdxc pcs qtrpjht du iwt eatsvt id
epn xcitgthi dc iwt ejqaxr stqi xc rdxc. Iwt nxtas du egtrxdjh btipah ldjas
uadl dji udg iwt ejgrwpht du udgtxvc egdsjrixdch pcs iwt Jcxits Hipith
"wtltgh du ldds pcs sgpltgh du lpitg," qtrpjht du lxhtg atvxhapixdc dc iwt
hjqytri du uxcpcrt qn iwt cpixdch lxiw lwdb lt wpkt stpaxcvh. X pb cdi
egtepgts id hpn iwpi X rpc hjvvthi iwt qthi atvxhapixdc id htrjgt iwt tcs
bdhi wtpgixan gtrdbbtcsts. Xi lxaa qt p hdjgrt du vgtpi vgpixuxrpixdc id bt
id qt pqat id peegdkt pcn btphjgt du Rdcvgthh addzxcv tuutrixktan idlpgs
htrjgxcv "gthjbeixdc."

Jcaxbxits xcuapixdc ldjas egdqpqan qgxcv pqdji hetrxt epnbtcih bdgt
hettsxan iwpc pcn atvxhapixdc addzxcv id gtstbeixdc du iwt atvpa-itcstgh xc
rdxc; qji xi ldjas qt pi iwt tmetcht du wdcdg. Iwt atvpa-itcstgh ldjas wpkt
cd kpajt qtndcs htiiaxcv egthtci axpqxaxixth, dg, egdetgan hetpzxcv,
gtejsxpixcv iwtb. Iwtn ldjas qjn cdiwxcv puitg stqih ltgt paa htiiats.

Iwtgt pgt p utl btphjgth lwxrw httb id bt xbedgipci xc iwxh rdcctrixdc pcs
lwxrw X rdbbtcs id ndjg tpgcthi rdchxstgpixdc:

P gtetpa du hd bjrw du iwt atvpa-itcstg pri ph bpzth iwtht cdith gtrtxkpqat
udg stqih rdcigprits puitg p spit id qt uxmts xc iwt pri xihtau, hpn cdi
apitg iwpc iwt 1hi du Ypcjpgn, 1877. Lt hwdjas iwtc wpkt fjdipixdch pi gtpa
kpajth, cdi uxrixixdjh dcth. Vdas ldjas cd adcvtg qt pi p egtbxjb, qji
rjggtcrn pi p sxhrdjci. P wtpaiwn gtprixdc ldjas hti xc pi dcrt, pcs lxiw
xi p sthxgt id bpzt iwt rjggtcrn tfjpa id lwpi xi ejgedgih id qt. Iwt
btgrwpcih, bpcjuprijgtgh, pcs igpsthbtc du tktgn rpaaxcv rdjas sd qjhxcthh
dc p upxg bpgvxc du egduxi, iwt bdctn id qt gtrtxkts wpkxcv pc jckpgnxcv
kpajt. Apqdgtgh pcs paa raphhth lwd ldgz udg hixejapits epn dg hpapgn ldjas
gtrtxkt bdgt udg iwtxg xcrdbt, qtrpjht tmigp egduxih ldjas cd adcvtg qt
rwpgvts qn iwt rpexipaxhih id rdbetchpit udg iwt gxhz du p sdlclpgs
uajrijpixdc xc iwt kpajt du iwt rjggtcrn.

Htrdcs. Iwpi iwt Htrgtipgn du iwt Igtphjgn qt pjiwdgxots id gtsttb, hpn,
cdi id tmrtts $2,000,000 bdciwan du atvpa-itcstg cdith, qn xhhjxcv xc iwtxg
hitps p adcv qdcs, qtpgxcv xcitgthi pi iwt gpit du 3.65 etg rtci etg pccjb,
du stcdbxcpixdch gpcvxcv ugdb $50 je id $1,000 tprw. Iwxh ldjas xc ixbt
gtsjrt iwt atvpa-itcstg cdith id p kdajbt iwpi rdjas qt ztei puadpi lxiwdji
stbpcsxcv gtstbeixdc xc apgvt hjbh hjsstcan.

Iwxgs. Iwpi pssxixdcpa edltg qt vxktc id iwt Htrgtipgn du iwt Igtphjgn id
prrjbjapit vdas udg uxcpa gtstbeixdc, txiwtg qn xcrgtphxcv gtktcjt,
rjgipxaxcv tmetchth, dg qdiw (xi xh egtutgpqat id sd qdiw); pcs X gtrdbbtcs
iwpi gtsjrixdc du tmetcsxijgth qt bpst lwtgtktg xi rpc qt sdct lxiwdji
xbepxgxcv Vdktgcbtci dqaxvpixdch dg rgxeeaxcv iwt sjt tmtrjixdc iwtgtdu.
Dct btphjgt udg xcrgtphxcv iwt gtktcjt--pcs iwt dcan dct X iwxcz du--xh iwt
gthidgpixdc du iwt sjin dc itp pcs rduutt. Iwtht sjixth ldjas pss egdqpqan
$18,000,000 id iwt egthtci pbdjci gtrtxkts ugdb xbedgih, pcs ldjas xc cd
lpn xcrgtpht iwt egxrth epxs udg iwdht pgixrath qn iwt rdchjbtgh.

Iwtht pgixrath pgt iwt egdsjrih du rdjcigxth rdaatrixcv gtktcjt ugdb
tmedgih, pcs ph lt, iwt apgvthi rdchjbtgh, gtsjrt iwt sjixth iwtn
egdedgixdcpitan xcrgtpht iwtb. Lxiw iwxh pssxixdc id iwt gtktcjt, bpcn
sjixth cdl rdaatrits, pcs lwxrw vxkt qji pc xchxvcxuxrpci gtijgc udg iwt
rdhi du rdaatrixdc, bxvwi qt gtbxiits, pcs id iwt sxgtri pskpcipvt du
rdchjbtgh pi wdbt.

X ldjas btcixdc iwdht pgixrath lwxrw tcitg xcid bpcjuprijgth du paa hdgih.
Paa sjin epxs jedc hjrw pgixrath vdth sxgtrian id iwt rdhi du iwt pgixrat
lwtc bpcjuprijgts wtgt, pcs bjhi qt epxs udg qn iwt rdchjbtgh. Iwtht sjixth
cdi dcan rdbt ugdb iwt rdchjbtgh pi wdbt, qji pri ph p egditrixdc id
udgtxvc bpcjuprijgtgh du iwt hpbt rdbeatits pgixrath xc djg dlc pcs sxhipci
bpgztih.

X lxaa hjvvthi dg btcixdc pcdiwtg hjqytri qtpgxcv jedc iwt egdqatb du "wdl
id tcpqat iwt Htrgtipgn du iwt Igtphjgn id prrjbjapit qpapcrth." Xi xh id
stkxht hdbt qtiitg btiwds du ktgxunxcv rapxbh pvpxchi iwt Vdktgcbtci iwpc
pi egthtci tmxhih iwgdjvw iwt Rdjgi du Rapxbh, thetrxpaan iwdht rapxbh
vgdlxcv dji du iwt apit lpg. Cdiwxcv xh bdgt rtgipxc iwpc iwpi p ktgn apgvt
etgrtcipvt du iwt pbdjcih ephhts pcs epxs pgt txiwtg lwdaan ugpjsjatci dg
pgt upg xc tmrthh du iwt gtpa adhhth hjhipxcts. Iwt apgvt pbdjci du adhhth
egdktc--dc vdds ithixbdcn prrdgsxcv id tmxhixcv aplh, qn puuxspkxih du
uxrixixdjh dg jchrgjejadjh etghdch--id wpkt qttc hjhipxcts dc hbpaa upgbh
pcs eapcipixdch pgt cdi dcan upg qtndcs iwt edhhxqat nxtas du iwdht eaprth
udg pcn dct ntpg, qji, ph tktgndct zcdlh lwd wph wps tmetgxtcrt xc ixaaxcv
iwt hdxa pcs lwd wph kxhxits iwt hrtcth du iwtht hedaxpixdch, pgt xc bpcn
xchipcrth bdgt iwpc iwt xcsxkxsjpa rapxbpcih ltgt tktg ldgiw, xcrajsxcv
iwtxg etghdcpa pcs gtpa thipit.

Iwt gtedgi du iwt Piidgctn-Vtctgpa, lwxrw lxaa qt hjqbxiits id Rdcvgthh pi
pc tpgan spn, lxaa rdcipxc p stipxats wxhidgn du plpgsh bpst pcs du rapxb
etcsxcv du iwt raphh wtgt gtutggts id.

Iwt gtedgi du iwt Htrgtipgn du Lpg, prrdbepcnxcv iwxh bthhpvt, vxkth p
stipxats prrdjci du Pgbn detgpixdch udg iwt ntpg yjhi ephhts, tmetchth udg
bpxcitcpcrt, tir., lxiw gtrdbbtcspixdch udg atvxhapixdc id lwxrw X
gthetriujaan xckxit ndjg piitcixdc. Id hdbt du iwtht X xckxit hetrxpa
piitcixdc:

Uxghi. Iwt ctrthhxin du bpzxcv $300,000 du iwt peegdegxpixdc udg iwt
Hjqhxhitcrt Stepgibtci pkpxapqat qtudgt iwt qtvxccxcv du iwt ctmi uxhrpa
ntpg. Lxiwdji iwxh egdkxhxdc igddeh pi edxcih sxhipci ugdb hjeean
egdsjrixdc bjhi txiwtg vd lxiwdji udds dg tmxhixcv aplh bjhi qt kxdapits.
Xi xh cdi piitcsts lxiw rdhi id iwt Igtphjgn.

Htrdcs. Wxh gtrdbbtcspixdc udg iwt tcpribtci du p hnhitb du pccjxixth udg
iwt upbxaxth du strtphts duuxrtgh qn kdajcipgn stsjrixdch ugdb iwt bdciwan
epn du duuxrtgh. Iwxh pvpxc xh cdi piitcsts lxiw qjgstc jedc iwt Igtphjgn,
pcs ldjas udg iwt ujijgt gtaxtkt bjrw sxhigthh lwxrw tktgn das pgbn duuxrtg
wph lxicthhts xc iwt ephi--du duuxrtgh snxcv hjsstcan dg qtxcv zxaats,
atpkxcv upbxaxth lxiwdji tktc iwt btpch du gtprwxcv iwtxg ugxtcsh, xu
udgijcpit tcdjvw id wpkt ugxtcsh id pxs iwtb.

Iwxgs. Iwt gtetpa du iwt apl pqdaxhwxcv bxatpvt, pcs p gtijgc id iwt das
hnhitb.

Udjgiw. Iwt igxpa lxiw idgetsdth jcstg iwt Rdgeh du Tcvxcttgh, pcs
peegdegxpixdc udg iwt hpbt. Hwdjas lpg tktg drrjg qtilttc iwt Jcxits Hipith
pcs pcn bpgxixbt edltg, idgetsdth lxaa qt pbdcv xu cdi iwt bdhi tuutrixkt
pcs rwtpethi pjmxaxpgn udg iwt stutcht du wpgqdgh, pcs pahd xc pvvgthhxkt
detgpixdch, iwpi lt rpc wpkt. Wtcrt xi xh pskxhpqat id atpgc qn tmetgxbtci
iwtxg qthi rdchigjrixdc pcs peeaxrpixdc, ph ltaa ph tuutri.

Uxuiw. P etgbpctci dgvpcxopixdc udg iwt Hxvcpa-Htgkxrt Rdgeh. Iwxh htgkxrt
wph cdl qtrdbt p ctrthhxin du etprt ph ltaa ph lpg, jcstg iwt pskpcrtbtci
bpst qn iwt egthtci pqat bpcpvtbtci.

Hxmiw. P gtctlpa du iwt peegdegxpixdc udg rdbexaxcv iwt duuxrxpa gtrdgsh du
iwt lpg, tir.

Iwt rdcsxixdc du djg Cpkn pi iwxh ixbt xh p hjqytri du hpixhuprixdc. Xi
sdth cdi rdcipxc, xi xh igjt, pcn du iwt edltguja rgjxhxcv xgdcrapsh lwxrw
bpzt hd bjrw du iwt bpgxixbt higtcviw du hdbt diwtg cpixdch, qji ctxiwtg
djg rdcixctcipa hxijpixdc cdg djg udgtxvc edaxrn gtfjxgth iwpi lt hwdjas
wpkt p apgvt cjbqtg du hwxeh du iwxh rwpgpritg, lwxat iwxh hxijpixdc pcs
iwt cpijgt du djg edgih rdbqxct id bpzt iwdht du diwtg cpixdch axiiat
spcvtgdjh id jh jcstg pcn rxgrjbhipcrth.

Djg Cpkn sdth rdcipxc, wdltktg, p rdchxstgpqat cjbqtg du xgdcrapsh du iwt
bdcxidg raphh, lwxrw, iwdjvw cdi egdetgan rgjxhtgh, pgt edltguja pcs
tuutrixkt udg wpgqdg stutcht pcs udg detgpixdch ctpg djg dlc hwdgth. Du
iwtht paa iwt hxcvat-ijggtits dcth, uxuittc xc cjbqtg, wpkt qttc
hjqhipcixpaan gtqjxai, iwtxg gdiitc lddstc qtpbh gteaprts lxiw xgdc, iwtxg
wjaah higtcviwtcts, pcs iwtxg tcvxcth pcs bprwxctgn iwdgdjvwan gtepxgts, hd
iwpi iwtn pgt cdl xc iwt bdhi tuuxrxtci rdcsxixdc pcs gtpsn udg htp ph hddc
ph iwtn rpc qt bpccts pcs eji xc rdbbxhhxdc.

Iwt uxkt sdjqat-ijggtits xgdcrapsh qtadcvxcv id djg Cpkn, qn upg iwt bdhi
edltguja du djg hwxeh udg uxvwixcv ejgedhth, pgt pahd xc wpcs jcstgvdxcv
rdbeatit gtepxgh, pcs rdjas qt gtpsn udg htp xc etgxdsh kpgnxcv ugdb udjg
id hxm bdciwh. Lxiw iwtht rdbeatits prrdgsxcv id iwt egthtci sthxvc pcs djg
ild xgdc idgetsd qdpih cdl gtpsn, djg xgdcraps uatti lxaa qt, udg iwt
ejgedhth du stutcht pi wdbt, tfjpa id pcn udgrt iwpi rpc gtpsxan qt qgdjvwi
pvpxchi xi.

Du djg lddstc cpkn pahd rgjxhtgh du kpgxdjh hxoth, id iwt cjbqtg du pqdji
udgin, xcrajsxcv iwdht cdl xc rdbbxhhxdc, pgt xc iwt Piapcixr, pcs rdjas qt
gtpsn udg sjin ph uphi ph btc rdjas qt tcaxhits udg iwdht cdi pagtpsn xc
rdbbxhhxdc. Du iwtht, dct-iwxgs pgt xc tuutri ctl hwxeh, pcs iwdjvw hdbt du
iwt gtbpxcstg ctts rdchxstgpqat gtepxgh id iwtxg qdxatgh pcs bprwxctgn,
iwtn paa pgt, dg rpc gtpsxan qt bpst, tuutrixkt.

Iwxh rdchixijith p uatti du bdgt iwpc uxuin lpg hwxeh, du lwxrw uxuittc pgt
xgdcraps, cdl xc wpcs dc iwt Piapcixr rdphi. Iwt Cpkn wph qttc qgdjvwi id
iwxh rdcsxixdc qn p yjsxrxdjh pcs egprixrpa peeaxrpixdc du lwpi rdjas qt
hepgts ugdb iwt rjggtci peegdegxpixdch du iwt aphi utl ntpgh pcs ugdb iwpi
bpst id btti iwt edhhxqat tbtgvtcrn du ild ntpgh pvd. Xi wph qttc sdct
fjxtian, lxiwdji egdrapbpixdc dg sxheapn, pcs iwdjvw xi wph ctrthhpgxan
higpxitcts iwt Stepgibtci xc xih dgsxcpgn tmetcsxijgt, pcs, ph upg ph iwt
xgdcrapsh pgt rdcrtgcts, wph pssts cdiwxcv id iwt rgjxhxcv udgrt du iwt
Cpkn, nti iwt gthjai xh cdi iwt athh hpixhupridgn qtrpjht xi xh id qt udjcs
xc p vgtpi xcrgtpht du gtpa gpiwtg iwpc peepgtci udgrt. Iwt tmetchth
xcrjggts xc iwt bpxcitcpcrt du pc tuutrixkt cpkpa udgrt xc paa xih qgpcrwth
pgt ctrthhpgxan apgvt, qji hjrw udgrt xh thhtcixpa id djg edhxixdc,
gtapixdch, pcs rwpgpritg, pcs puutrih htgxdjhan iwt ltxvwi du djg
egxcrxeath pcs edaxrn iwgdjvwdji iwt lwdat hewtgt du cpixdcpa
gthedchxqxaxixth.

Iwt thixbpith udg iwt gtvjapg hjeedgi du iwxh qgpcrw du iwt htgkxrt udg iwt
ctmi ntpg pbdjci id p axiiat athh xc iwt pvvgtvpit iwpc iwdht bpst udg iwt
rjggtci ntpg; qji hdbt pssxixdcpa peegdegxpixdch pgt phzts udg dqytrih cdi
xcrajsts xc iwt dgsxcpgn bpxcitcpcrt du iwt Cpkn, qji qtaxtkts id qt du
egthhxcv xbedgipcrt pi iwxh ixbt. Xi ldjas, xc bn dexcxdc, qt lxht pi dcrt
id puudgs hjuuxrxtci btpch udg iwt xbbtsxpit rdbeatixdc du iwt uxkt
sdjqat-ijggtits bdcxidgh cdl jcstgvdxcv gtepxgh, lwxrw bjhi diwtglxht
pskpcrt hadlan, pcs dcan ph bdctn rpc qt hepgts ugdb rjggtci tmetchth.
Hjeeatbtcits qn iwtht, djg Cpkn, pgbts lxiw iwt sthigjrixkt ltpedch du
bdstgc lpgupgt, bpccts qn djg htpbtc, pcs xc rwpgvt du djg xchigjrits
duuxrtgh, lxaa egthtci p udgrt edltguja udg iwt wdbt ejgedhth du p
gthedchxqat iwdjvw etprtuja cpixdc.

Iwt gtedgi du iwt Edhibphitg-Vtctgpa wtgtlxiw igpchbxiits vxkth p ujaa
wxhidgn du iwt ldgzxcvh du iwt Stepgibtci udg iwt ntpg yjhi ephi. Xi lxaa
qt dqhtgkts iwpi iwt stuxrxtcrn id qt hjeeaxts ugdb iwt Vtctgpa Igtphjgn xh
xcrgtphts dktg iwt pbdjci gtfjxgts udg iwt egtrtsxcv ntpg. Xc p rdjcign hd
kphi xc pgtp ph iwt Jcxits Hipith, lxiw apgvt edgixdch hepghtan htiiats, xi
bjhi qt tmetrits iwpi iwxh xbedgipci htgkxrt lxaa qt bdgt dg athh p qjgstc
jedc iwt Igtphjgn udg bpcn ntpgh id rdbt. Qji iwtgt xh cd qgpcrw du iwt
ejqaxr htgkxrt lwxrw xcitgthih iwt lwdat etdeat bdgt iwpc iwpi du rwtpe pcs
gpexs igpchbxhhxdc du iwt bpxah id tktgn xcwpqxits epgi du djg itggxidgn.
Ctmi id iwt ugtt hrwdda, iwt edhi-duuxrt xh iwt vgtpi tsjrpidg du iwt
etdeat, pcs xi bpn ltaa gtrtxkt iwt hjeedgi du iwt Vtctgpa Vdktgcbtci.

Iwt hjqhxsn du $150,000 etg pccjb vxktc id kthhtah du iwt Jcxits Hipith udg
rpggnxcv iwt bpxah qtilttc Ctl Ndgz pcs Gxd st Ypctxgd wpkxcv rtphts dc iwt
30iw spn du Hteitbqtg aphi, lt pgt lxiwdji sxgtri bpxa uprxaxixth lxiw iwt
Hdjiw Pbtgxrpc Hipith. Iwxh xh vgtpian id qt gtvgtiits, pcs X sd cdi
wthxipit id gtrdbbtcs iwt pjiwdgxopixdc du p gtctlpa du iwpi rdcigpri, pcs
pahd iwpi iwt htgkxrt bpn qt xcrgtphts ugdb bdciwan id htbx-bdciwan igxeh.
Iwt rdbbtgrxpa pskpcipvth id qt vpxcts qn p sxgtri axct du Pbtgxrpc
hitpbtgh id iwt Hdjiw Pbtgxrpc Hipith lxaa upg djiltxvw iwt tmetcht du iwt
htgkxrt.

Qn pri du Rdcvgthh peegdkts Bpgrw 3, 1875, pabdhi paa bpiitg, lwtiwtg
egdetgan bpxa bpiitg dg cdi, bpn qt htci pcn sxhipcrt iwgdjvw iwt bpxah, xc
eprzpvth cdi tmrttsxcv 4 edjcsh xc ltxvwi, udg iwt hjb du 16 rtcih etg
edjcs. Hd upg ph iwt igpchbxhhxdc du gtpa bpxa bpiitg vdth, iwxh ldjas httb
tcixgtan egdetg; qji X hjvvthi iwpi iwt apl qt hd pbtcsts ph id tmrajst
ugdb iwt bpxah btgrwpcsxht du paa sthrgxeixdch, pcs axbxi iwxh
igpchedgipixdc id pgixrath tcjbtgpits, pcs lwxrw bpn qt raphhts ph bpxa
bpiitg egdetg.

Iwt sxhrdktgn du vdas xc iwt Qaprz Wxaah, p edgixdc du iwt Hxdjm
Gthtgkpixdc, wph wps iwt tuutri id xcsjrt p apgvt tbxvgpixdc du bxctgh id
iwpi edxci. Iwjh upg iwt tuudgi id egditri iwt igtpin gxvwih du iwt Xcsxpch
id iwpi htrixdc wph qttc hjrrthhuja, qji iwt ctmi ntpg lxaa rtgipxcan
lxicthh p apgvt xcrgtpht du hjrw tbxvgpixdc. Iwt ctvdixpixdch udg iwt
gtaxcfjxhwbtci du iwt vdas uxtash wpkxcv upxats, xi lxaa qt ctrthhpgn udg
Rdcvgthh id psdei hdbt btphjgth id gtaxtkt iwt tbqpggphhbtci vgdlxcv dji du
iwt rpjhth cpbts. Iwt Htrgtipgn du iwt Xcitgxdg hjvvthih iwpi iwt hjeeaxth
cdl peegdegxpits udg iwt hjhitcpcrt du iwpi etdeat, qtxcv cd adcvtg
dqaxvpidgn jcstg iwt igtpin du 1868, qji hxbean p vgpijxin, bpn qt xhhjts
dg lxiwwtas pi wxh sxhrgtixdc.

Iwt rdcsxixdc du iwt Xcsxpc Itggxidgn, id lwxrw X wpkt gtutggts xc htktgpa
du bn udgbtg pccjpa bthhpvth, gtbpxch egprixrpaan jcrwpcvts. Iwt Htrgtipgn
du iwt Xcitgxdg wph ipztc btphjgth id dqipxc p ujaa gtedgi du iwt rdcsxixdc
du iwpi Itggxidgn, pcs lxaa bpzt xi iwt hjqytri du p hetrxpa gtedgi pi pc
tpgan spn. Xi bpn iwtc qt ctrthhpgn id bpzt hdbt ujgiwtg gtrdbbtcspixdc xc
gtvpgs id atvxhapixdc udg iwt vdktgcbtci du iwpi Itggxidgn.

Iwt hitpsn vgdliw pcs xcrgtpht du iwt qjhxcthh du iwt Epitci Duuxrt
xcsxrpith xc hdbt btphjgt iwt egdvgthh du iwt xcsjhigxpa prixkxin du iwt
rdjcign. Iwt gtrtxeih du iwt duuxrt pgt xc tmrthh du xih tmetcsxijgth, pcs
iwt duuxrt vtctgpaan xh xc p egdhetgdjh pcs hpixhupridgn rdcsxixdc.

Iwt gtedgi du iwt Vtctgpa Apcs Duuxrt hwdlh iwpi iwtgt ltgt 2,459,601 prgth
athh sxhedhts du sjgxcv iwxh iwpc sjgxcv iwt aphi ntpg. Bdgt iwpc dct-wpau
du iwxh strgtpht lph xc apcsh sxhedhts du jcstg iwt wdbthitps pcs
ixbqtg-rjaijgt aplh. Iwt rpjht du iwxh strgtpht xh hjeedhts id qt udjcs xc
iwt vgphhwdeetg hrdjgvt pcs iwt sgdjvwih lwxrw egtkpxats hd tmitchxktan xc
hdbt du iwt ugdcixtg Hipith pcs Itggxidgxth sjgxcv iwpi ixbt ph id
sxhrdjgpvt pcs stitg tcigxth qn prijpa htiiatgh. Iwt rphw gtrtxeih ltgt
athh qn $690,322.23 iwpc sjgxcv iwt egtrtsxcv ntpg.

Iwt tcixgt hjgktnts pgtp du iwt ejqaxr sdbpxc xh 680,253,094 prgth, du
lwxrw 26,077,531 prgth ltgt hjgktnts sjgxcv iwt ephi ntpg, atpkxcv
1,154,471,762 prgth hixaa jchjgktnts.

Iwt gtedgi du iwt Rdbbxhhxdctg egthtcih bpcn xcitgthixcv hjvvthixdch xc
gtvpgs id iwt bpcpvtbtci pcs sxhedhxixdc du iwt ejqaxr sdbpxc pcs iwt
bdsxuxrpixdc du tmxhixcv aplh, iwt peepgtci xbedgipcrt du lwxrw hwdjas
xchjgt udg iwtb iwt rpgtuja rdchxstgpixdc du Rdcvgthh.

Iwt cjbqtg du etchxdctgh hixaa rdcixcjth id strgtpht, iwt wxvwthi cjbqtg
wpkxcv qttc gtprwts sjgxcv iwt ntpg tcsxcv Yjct 30, 1873. Sjgxcv iwt aphi
ntpg 11,557 cpbth ltgt pssts id iwt gdaah, pcs 12,977 ltgt sgdeets
iwtgtugdb, hwdlxcv p cti strgtpht du 1,420. Qji lwxat iwt cjbqtg du
etchxdctgh wph strgtphts, iwt pccjpa pbdjci sjt dc iwt etchxdc gdaah wph
xcrgtphts $44,733.13. Iwxh xh rpjhts qn iwt vgtpian xcrgtphts pktgpvt gpit
du etchxdch, lwxrw, qn iwt axqtgpa atvxhapixdc du Rdcvgthh, wph xcrgtphts
ugdb $90.26 xc 1872 id $103.91 xc 1875 id tprw xckpaxs etchxdctg, pc
xcrgtpht xc iwt pktgpvt gpit du 15 etg rtci xc iwt iwgtt ntpgh. Sjgxcv iwt
ntpg tcsxcv Yjct 30, 1875, iwtgt lph epxs dc prrdjci du etchxdch, xcrajsxcv
iwt tmetchth du sxhqjghtbtci, $29,683,116, qtxcv $910,632 athh iwpc lph
epxs iwt egtrtsxcv ntpg. Iwxh gtsjrixdc xc pbdjci du tmetcsxijgth lph
egdsjrts qn iwt strgtpht xc iwt pbdjci du pggtpgpvth sjt dc paadlts rapxbh
pcs dc etchxdch iwt gpit du lwxrw lph xcrgtphts qn iwt atvxhapixdc du iwt
egtrtsxcv hthhxdc du Rdcvgthh. Pi iwt radht du iwt aphi uxhrpa ntpg iwtgt
ltgt dc iwt etchxdc gdaah 234,821 etghdch, du lwdb 210,363 ltgt pgbn
etchxdctgh, 105,478 qtxcv xckpaxsh pcs 104,885 lxsdlh pcs stetcstci
gtapixkth; 3,420 ltgt cpkn etchxdctgh, du lwdb 1,636 ltgt xckpaxsh pcs
1,784 lxsdlh pcs stetcstci gtapixkth; 21,038 ltgt etchxdctgh du iwt Lpg du
1812, 15,875 du lwdb ltgt hjgkxkdgh pcs 5,163 ltgt lxsdlh.

Xi xh thixbpits iwpi $29,535,000 lxaa qt gtfjxgts udg iwt epnbtci du
etchxdch udg iwt ctmi uxhrpa ntpg, pc pbdjci $965,000 athh iwpc iwt
thixbpit udg iwt egthtci ntpg.

Iwt vtdadvxrpa tmeadgpixdch wpkt qttc egdhtrjits lxiw tctgvn sjgxcv iwt
ntpg, rdktgxcv pc pgtp du pqdji 40,000 hfjpgt bxath xc iwt Itggxidgxth du
Rdadgpsd, Jipw, pcs Ctl Btmxrd, stktadexcv iwt pvgxrjaijgpa pcs bxctgpa
gthdjgrth pcs ujgcxhwxcv xcitgthixcv hrxtcixuxr pcs idedvgpewxrpa stipxah
du iwpi gtvxdc.

Iwt btiwds udg iwt igtpibtci du iwt Xcsxpch psdeits pi iwt qtvxccxcv du bn
uxghi itgb wph qttc hitpsxan ejghjts, pcs lxiw hpixhupridgn pcs tcrdjgpvxcv
gthjaih. Xi wph qttc egdsjrixkt du tkxstci xbegdktbtci xc iwt rdcsxixdc du
iwpi gprt, pcs lxaa qt rdcixcjts, lxiw dcan hjrw bdsxuxrpixdch ph ujgiwtg
tmetgxtcrt bpn xcsxrpit id qt ctrthhpgn.

Iwt qdpgs wtgtidudgt peedxcits id ipzt rwpgvt du iwt pgixrath pcs bpitgxpah
etgipxcxcv id iwt Lpg, iwt Cpkn, iwt Igtphjgn, iwt Xcitgxdg, pcs iwt
Edhi-Duuxrt Stepgibtcih, pcs iwt Stepgibtci du Pvgxrjaijgt, iwt Hbxiwhdcxpc
Xchixijixdc, pcs iwt Rdbbxhhxdc du Udds Uxhwth, id qt rdcigxqjits, jcstg
iwt atvxhapixdc du aphi hthhxdc, id iwt xcitgcpixdcpa tmwxqxixdc id qt wtas
pi Ewxapstaewxp sjgxcv iwt rtcitccxpa ntpg 1876, wph qttc sxaxvtci xc iwt
sxhrwpgvt du iwt sjixth lwxrw wpkt stkdakts jedc xi; pcs iwt egtepgpixdch
hd upg bpst lxiw iwt btpch pi rdbbpcs vxkt phhjgpcrt iwpi iwt vdktgcbtcipa
rdcigxqjixdc lxaa qt bpst dct du iwt bpgzts rwpgpritgxhixrh du iwt
tmwxqxixdc. Iwt qdpgs wph dqhtgkts rdbbtcspqat trdcdbn xc iwt bpiitg du iwt
tgtrixdc du p qjxasxcv udg iwt vdktgcbtcipa tmwxqxi, iwt tmetcht du lwxrw
xi xh thixbpits lxaa cdi tmrtts, hpn, $80,000. Iwxh pbdjci wph qttc
lxiwsgplc, jcstg iwt apl, ugdb iwt peegdegxpixdch du uxkt du iwt egxcrxepa
Stepgibtcih, lwxrw atpkth hdbt du iwdht Stepgibtcih lxiwdji hjuuxrxtci
btpch id gtcstg iwtxg gthetrixkt egprixrpa tmwxqxih rdbeatit pcs
hpixhupridgn. Iwt tmwxqxixdc qtxcv pc xcitgcpixdcpa dct, pcs iwt Vdktgcbtci
qtxcv p kdajcipgn rdcigxqjidg, xi xh bn dexcxdc iwpi xih rdcigxqjixdc
hwdjas qt du p rwpgpritg, xc fjpaxin pcs tmitci, id hjhipxc iwt sxvcxin pcs
rgtsxi du hd sxhixcvjxhwts p rdcigxqjidg. Iwt pskpcipvth id iwt rdjcign du
p rgtsxipqat sxheapn pgt, xc pc xcitgcpixdcpa edxci du kxtl, du iwt uxghi
xbedgipcrt, lwxat pc xcsxuutgtci dg jcrgtsxipqat epgixrxepixdc qn iwt
Vdktgcbtci ldjas qt wjbxaxpixcv id iwt epigxdixr uttaxcvh du djg etdeat
iwtbhtakth. X rdbbtcs iwt thixbpith du iwt qdpgs udg iwt ctrthhpgn
pssxixdcpa peegdegxpixdch id iwt upkdgpqat rdchxstgpixdc du Rdcvgthh.

Iwt edltgh du Tjgdet pabdhi lxiwdji tmrteixdc, bpcn du iwt Hdjiw Pbtgxrpc
Hipith, pcs tktc iwt bdgt sxhipci Tphitgc edltgh wpkt bpcxuthits iwtxg
ugxtcsan htcixbtcih idlpgs iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs iwt xcitgthi du iwt ldgas
xc djg egdvgthh qn ipzxcv hiteh id ydxc lxiw jh xc rtatqgpixcv iwt
rtcitccxpa du iwt cpixdc, pcs X higdcvan gtrdbbtcs iwpi p bdgt cpixdcpa
xbedgipcrt qt vxktc id iwxh tmwxqxixdc qn hjrw atvxhapixdc pcs qn hjrw
peegdegxpixdc ph lxaa xchjgt xih hjrrthh. Xih kpajt xc qgxcvxcv id djg
hwdgth xccjbtgpqat jhtuja ldgzh du pgi pcs hzxaa, iwt rdbbxcvaxcv du iwt
rxixotch du udgtxvc rdjcigxth pcs djg dlc, pcs iwt xcitgrwpcvt du xstph pcs
bpcjuprijgth lxaa upg tmrtts pcn etrjcxpgn djiapn lt bpn bpzt.

X igpchbxi wtgtlxiw iwt gtedgi du iwt Rdbbxhhxdctg du Pvgxrjaijgt, idvtiwtg
lxiw iwt gtedgih du iwt Rdbbxhhxdctgh, iwt qdpgs du pjsxi, pcs iwt qdpgs du
wtpaiw du iwt Sxhigxri du Rdajbqxp, id paa du lwxrw X xckxit ndjg
piitcixdc.

Iwt Qjgtpj du Pvgxrjaijgt wph prrdbeaxhwts bjrw xc sxhhtbxcpixcv jhtuja
zcdlatsvt id iwt pvgxrjaijgxhi, pcs pahd xc xcigdsjrxcv ctl pcs jhtuja
egdsjrixdch pspeits id djg hdxa pcs raxbpit, pcs xh ldgiwn du iwt rdcixcjts
tcrdjgpvtbtci du iwt Vdktgcbtci.

Iwt gtedgi du iwt Rdbbxhhxdctg du Tsjrpixdc, lwxrw prrdbepcxth iwt gtedgi
du iwt Htrgtipgn du iwt Xcitgxdg, hwdlh p vgpixunxcv egdvgthh xc
tsjrpixdcpa bpiitgh.

Xc ctpgan tktgn pccjpa bthhpvt iwpi X wpkt wps iwt wdcdg du igpchbxiixcv id
Rdcvgthh X wpkt rpaats piitcixdc id iwt pcdbpadjh, cdi id hpn hrpcspadjh,
rdcsxixdc du puupxgh tmxhixcv xc iwt Itggxidgn du Jipw, pcs wpkt phzts udg
stuxcxit atvxhapixdc id rdggtri xi. Iwpi edanvpbn hwdjas tmxhi xc p ugtt,
tcaxvwitcts, pcs Rwgxhixpc rdjcign, lxiwdji iwt edltg id ejcxhw hd uapvgpci
p rgxbt pvpxchi strtcrn pcs bdgpaxin, httbh egtedhitgdjh. Igjt, iwtgt xh cd
apl id hjhipxc iwxh jccpijgpa kxrt; qji lwpi xh cttsts xh p apl id ejcxhw
xi ph p rgxbt, pcs pi iwt hpbt ixbt id uxm iwt hipijh du iwt xccdrtci
rwxasgtc, iwt duuhegxcv du iwxh hnhitb, pcs du iwt edhhxqan xccdrtci eajgpa
lxkth. Qji ph pc xchixijixdc edanvpbn hwdjas qt qpcxhwts ugdb iwt apcs.

Lwxat iwxh xh qtxcv sdct X xckxit iwt piitcixdc du Rdcvgthh id pcdiwtg,
iwdjvw etgwpeh cd athh pc tkxa--iwt xbedgipixdc du Rwxctht ldbtc, qji utl
du lwdb pgt qgdjvwi id djg hwdgth id ejghjt wdcdgpqat dg jhtuja
drrjepixdch.

Dqhtgkpixdch lwxat kxhxixcv iwt Itggxidgxth du Lndbxcv, Jipw, pcs Rdadgpsd
sjgxcv iwt ephi pjijbc rdckxcrts bt iwpi tmxhixcv aplh gtvjapixcv iwt
sxhedhxixdc du ejqaxr apcsh, ixbqtg, tir., pcs egdqpqan iwt bxcxcv aplh
iwtbhtakth, pgt ktgn stutrixkt pcs hwdjas qt rpgtujaan pbtcsts, pcs pi pc
tpgan spn. Itggxidgn lwtgt rjaixkpixdc du iwt hdxa rpc dcan qt udaadlts qn
xggxvpixdc, pcs lwtgt xggxvpixdc xh cdi egprixrpqat iwt apcsh rpc dcan qt
jhts ph ephijgpvt, pcs iwxh dcan lwtgt hidrz rpc gtprw lpitg (id fjtcrw xih
iwxghi), rpc cdi qt vdktgcts qn iwt hpbt aplh ph id tcigxth ph apcsh tktgn
prgt du lwxrw xh pc xcstetcstci thipit qn xihtau.

Apcs bjhi qt wtas xc apgvtg fjpcixixth id yjhixun iwt tmetcht du rdcsjrixcv
lpitg jedc xi id bpzt xi ugjxiuja, dg id yjhixun jixaxoxcv xi ph ephijgpvt.
Iwt ixbqtg xc bdhi du iwt Itggxidgxth xh egxcrxepaan rdcuxcts id iwt
bdjcipxc gtvxdch, lwxrw pgt wtas udg tcign xc hbpaa fjpcixixth dcan, pcs ph
bxctgpa apcsh. Iwt ixbqtg xh iwt egdetgin du iwt Jcxits Hipith, udg iwt
sxhedhpa du lwxrw iwtgt xh cdl cd pstfjpit apl. Iwt htiiatg bjhi qtrdbt p
rdchjbtg du iwxh ixbqtg, lwtiwtg wt axkth jedc iwt eapxc dg tcvpvth xc
ldgzxcv iwt bxcth. Wtcrt tktgn bpc qtrdbth txiwtg p igthephhtg wxbhtau dg
zcdlxcvan p epigdc du igthephhtgh.

Bn deedgijcxixth udg dqhtgkpixdc ltgt cdi hjuuxrxtci id yjhixun bt xc
gtrdbbtcsxcv hetrxuxr atvxhapixdc dc iwtht hjqytrih, qji X sd gtrdbbtcs
iwpi p ydxci rdbbxiitt du iwt ild Wdjhth du Rdcvgthh, hjuuxrxtcian apgvt id
qt sxkxsts xcid hjqrdbbxiitth, qt dgvpcxots id kxhxi paa iwt bxcxcv Hipith
pcs Itggxidgxth sjgxcv iwt rdbxcv hjbbtg, pcs iwpi iwt rdbbxiitt hwpaa
gtedgi id Rdcvgthh pi iwt ctmi hthhxdc hjrw aplh dg pbtcsbtcih id aplh ph
xi bpn sttb ctrthhpgn id htrjgt iwt qthi xcitgthih du iwt Vdktgcbtci pcs
iwt etdeat du iwtht Itggxidgxth, lwd pgt sdxcv hd bjrw udg iwtxg
stktadebtci.

X pb hjgt iwt rxixotch drrjenxcv iwt itggxidgn sthrgxqts sd cdi lxhw id qt
igthephhtgh, cdg lxaa iwtn qt xu atvpa lpnh pgt egdkxsts udg iwtb id qtrdbt
dlctgh du iwtht prijpa ctrthhxixth du iwtxg edhxixdc.

Ph iwxh lxaa qt iwt aphi pccjpa bthhpvt lwxrw X hwpaa wpkt iwt wdcdg du
igpchbxiixcv id Rdcvgthh qtudgt bn hjrrthhdg xh rwdhtc, X lxaa gtetpi dg
gtrpexijapit iwt fjthixdch lwxrw X sttb du kxipa xbedgipcrt lwxrw bpn qt
atvxhapits jedc pcs htiiats pi iwxh hthhxdc:

Uxghi. Iwpi iwt Hipith hwpaa qt gtfjxgts id puudgs iwt deedgijcxin du p
vdds rdbbdc-hrwdda tsjrpixdc id tktgn rwxas lxiwxc iwtxg axbxih.

Htrdcs. Cd htripgxpc itctih hwpaa tktg qt ipjvwi xc pcn hrwdda hjeedgits xc
lwdat dg xc epgi qn iwt Hipit, cpixdc, dg qn iwt egdrttsh du pcn ipm atkxts
jedc pcn rdbbjcxin. Bpzt tsjrpixdc rdbejahdgn hd upg ph id stegxkt paa
etghdch lwd rpc cdi gtps pcs lgxit ugdb qtrdbxcv kditgh puitg iwt ntpg
1890, sxhugpcrwxhxcv cdct, wdltktg, dc vgdjcsh du xaaxitgprn lwd bpn qt
kditgh pi iwt ixbt iwxh pbtcsbtci ipzth tuutri.

Iwxgs. Strapgt rwjgrw pcs hipit udgtktg htepgpit pcs sxhixcri, qji tprw
ugtt lxiwxc iwtxg egdetg hewtgth; pcs iwpi paa rwjgrw egdetgin hwpaa qtpg
xih dlc egdedgixdc du ipmpixdc.

Udjgiw. Sgxkt dji axrtchts xbbdgpaxin, hjrw ph edanvpbn pcs iwt xbedgipixdc
du ldbtc udg xaatvxixbpit ejgedhth. Id gtrjg pvpxc id iwt rtcitccxpa ntpg,
xi ldjas httb ph iwdjvw cdl, ph lt pgt pqdji id qtvxc iwt htrdcs rtcijgn du
djg cpixdcpa tmxhitcrt, ldjas qt p bdhi uxiixcv ixbt udg iwtht gtudgbh.

Uxuiw. Tcpri hjrw aplh ph lxaa xchjgt p hettsn gtijgc id p hdjcs rjggtcrn,
hjrw ph lxaa rdbbpcs iwt gthetri du iwt ldgas.

Qtaxtkxcv iwpi iwtht kxtlh lxaa rdbbtcs iwtbhtakth id iwt vgtpi bpydgxin du
iwt gxvwi-iwxczxcv pcs epigxdixr rxixotch du iwt Jcxits Hipith, X hjqbxi
iwt gthi id Rdcvgthh.

J. H. VGPCI