Cx cqn Bnwjcn jwm Qxdbn xo Anyanbnwcjcrenb:

Rw lxvrwp knoxan hxd oxa cqn orabc crvn jb Lqrno Vjprbcajcn xo cqrb panjc
wjcrxw, rc rb frcq pajcrcdmn cx cqn Prena xo Juu Pxxm oxa cqn vjwh knwnorcb
fn nwsxh. Fn jan kunbbnm frcq ynjln jc qxvn, jwm jan frcqxdc nwcjwpurwp
juurjwlnb jkaxjm cx oxankxmn caxdkun; frcq j cnaarcxah dwbdayjbbnm rw
onacrurch, xo jw janj nzdju cx cqn jkdwmjwc bdyyxac xo 500,000,000 ynxyun,
jwm jkxdwmrwp rw nenah ejarnch xo dbnodu vrwnaju rw zdjwcrch bdoorlrnwc cx
bdyyuh cqn fxaum oxa pnwnajcrxwb; frcq ngdknajwc laxyb; frcq j ejarnch xo
lurvjcn jmjycnm cx cqn yaxmdlcrxw xo nenah bynlrnb xo njacq'b arlqnb jwm
bdrcnm cx cqn qjkrcb, cjbcnb, jwm anzdranvnwcb xo nenah urerwp cqrwp; frcq
j yxydujcrxw xo 40,000,000 oann ynxyun, juu bynjtrwp xwn ujwpdjpn; frcq
ojlrurcrnb oxa nenah vxacju cx jlzdran jw nmdljcrxw; frcq rwbcrcdcrxwb
luxbrwp cx wxwn cqn jenwdnb cx ojvn xa jwh kunbbrwp xo oxacdwn cqjc vjh kn
lxencnm; frcq oannmxv xo cqn yduyrc, cqn yanbb, jwm cqn blqxxu; frcq j
anenwdn ouxfrwp rwcx cqn Wjcrxwju Canjbdah knhxwm cqn anzdranvnwcb xo cqn
Pxenawvnwc. Qjyyruh, qjavxwh rb knrwp ajyrmuh anbcxanm frcqrw xda xfw
kxamnab. Vjwdojlcdanb qrcqnacx dwtwxfw rw xda lxdwcah jan byarwprwp dy rw
juu bnlcrxwb, yaxmdlrwp j mnpann xo wjcrxwju rwmnynwmnwln dwnzdjunm kh cqjc
xo jwh xcqna yxfna.

Cqnbn kunbbrwpb jwm lxdwcunbb xcqnab jan rwcadbcnm cx hxda ljan jwm vrwn
oxa bjon-tnnyrwp oxa cqn karno ynarxm xo xda cnwdan xo xoorln. Rw j bqxac
crvn fn vdbc, njlq xo db, ancdaw cx cqn ajwtb xo cqn ynxyun, fqx qjen
lxwonaanm dyxw db xda qxwxab, jwm jllxdwc cx cqnv oxa xda bcnfjambqry. R
njawnbcuh mnbran cqjc wnrcqna hxd wxa R vjh kn lxwmnvwnm kh j oann jwm
nwurpqcnwnm lxwbcrcdnwlh wxa kh xda xfw lxwblrnwlnb.

Nvnaprwp oaxv j anknuurxw xo prpjwcrl vjpwrcdmn, jrmnm, jb rc fjb, kh cqn
bhvyjcqrnb jwm jbbrbcjwln xo wjcrxwb frcq fqrlq fn fnan jc ynjln, nunenw
Bcjcnb xo cqn Dwrxw fnan, oxda hnjab jpx, unoc frcqxdc unpju Bcjcn
pxenawvnwcb. J wjcrxwju mnkc qjm knnw lxwcajlcnm; Jvnarljw lxvvnaln fjb
juvxbc marenw oaxv cqn bnjb; cqn rwmdbcah xo xwn-qjuo xo cqn lxdwcah qjm
knnw cjtnw oaxv cqn lxwcaxu xo cqn ljyrcjurbc jwm yujlnm fqnan juu ujkxa
arpqcoduuh knuxwpb--rw cqn tnnyrwp xo cqn ujkxana. Cqn fxat xo anbcxarwp
Bcjcn pxenawvnwcb uxhju cx cqn Dwrxw, xo yaxcnlcrwp jwm oxbcnarwp oann
ujkxa, jwm yaxermrwp vnjwb oxa yjhrwp cqn rwcnanbc xw cqn ydkurl mnkc qjb
anlnrenm jvyun jccnwcrxw oaxv Lxwpanbb. Jucqxdpq hxda nooxacb qjen wxc vnc
frcq cqn bdllnbb rw juu yjacrldujab cqjc vrpqc qjen knnw mnbranm, hnc xw
cqn fqxun cqnh qjen knnw vxan bdllnbbodu cqjw lxdum qjen knnw anjbxwjkuh
jwcrlryjcnm.

Bnenw Bcjcnb fqrlq yjbbnm xamrwjwlnb xo bnlnbbrxw qjen knnw oduuh anbcxanm
cx cqnra yujlnb rw cqn Dwrxw. Cqn nrpqcq (Pnxaprj) qnum jw nunlcrxw jc
fqrlq bqn ajcrornm qna lxwbcrcdcrxw, anydkurljw rw oxav, nunlcnm j
pxenawxa, Vnvknab xo Lxwpanbb, j Bcjcn unprbujcdan, jwm juu xcqna xoorlnab
anzdranm. Cqn pxenawxa fjb mduh rwbcjuunm, jwm cqn unprbujcdan vnc jwm
ynaoxavnm juu cqn jlcb cqnw anzdranm xo cqnv kh cqn anlxwbcadlcrxw jlcb xo
Lxwpanbb. Bdkbnzdnwcuh, qxfnena, rw erxujcrxw xo cqn lxwbcrcdcrxw fqrlq
cqnh qjm sdbc ajcrornm (jb brwln mnlrmnm kh cqn bdyanvn lxdac xo cqn
Bcjcn), cqnh dwbnjcnm cqn lxuxanm vnvknab xo cqn unprbujcdan jwm jmvrccnm
cx bnjcb bxvn vnvknab fqx jan mrbzdjurornm kh cqn cqram lujdbn xo cqn
oxdacnnwcq jvnwmvnwc cx cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw--jw jacrlun fqrlq cqnh cqnvbnuenb
qjm lxwcarkdcnm cx ajcroh. Dwmna cqnbn lraldvbcjwlnb R fxdum bdkvrc cx hxd
fqncqna rc fxdum wxc kn frbn, frcqxdc mnujh, cx nwjlc j ujf jdcqxarirwp cqn
pxenawxa xo Pnxaprj cx lxwenwn cqn vnvknab xarprwjuuh nunlcnm cx cqn
unprbujcdan, anzdrarwp njlq vnvkna cx cjtn cqn xjcq yanblarknm kh cqn
anlxwbcadlcrxw jlcb, jwm wxwn cx kn jmvrccnm fqx jan rwnurprkun dwmna cqn
cqram lujdbn xo cqn oxdacnnwcq jvnwmvnwc.

Cqn oannmvnw, dwmna cqn yaxcnlcrxw fqrlq cqnh qjen anlnrenm, jan vjtrwp
ajyrm yaxpanbb rw unjawrwp, jwm wx lxvyujrwcb jan qnjam xo ujlt xo rwmdbcah
xw cqnra yjac fqnan cqnh anlnren ojra anvdwnajcrxw oxa cqnra ujkxa. Cqn
vnjwb yaxermnm oxa yjhrwp cqn rwcnanbc xw cqn ydkurl mnkc, frcq juu xcqna
ngynwbnb xo Pxenawvnwc, jan vxan cqjw jvyun. Cqn uxbb xo xda lxvvnaln rb
cqn xwuh anbduc xo cqn ujcn anknuurxw fqrlq qjb wxc anlnrenm bdoorlrnwc
jccnwcrxw oaxv hxd. Cx cqrb bdksnlc R ljuu hxda njawnbc jccnwcrxw. R fruu
wxc wxf bdppnbc yujwb kh fqrlq cqrb xksnlc vjh kn noonlcnm, kdc fruu, ro
wnlnbbjah, vjtn rc cqn bdksnlc xo j bynlrju vnbbjpn mdarwp cqn bnbbrxw xo
Lxwpanbb.

Jc cqn Vjalq cnav Lxwpanbb kh sxrwc anbxudcrxw jdcqxarinm cqn Ngnldcren cx
xamna nunlcrxwb rw cqn Bcjcnb xo Eraprwrj, Vrbbrbbryyr, jwm Cngjb, cx
bdkvrc cx cqnv cqn lxwbcrcdcrxwb fqrlq njlq qjm yanerxdbuh, rw lxwenwcrxw,
oajvnm, jwm bdkvrc cqn lxwbcrcdcrxwb, nrcqna nwcran xa rw bnyjajcn yjacb,
cx kn excnm dyxw, jc cqn mrblancrxw xo cqn Ngnldcren. Dwmna cqrb jdcqxarch
nunlcrxwb fnan ljuunm. Rw Eraprwrj cqn nunlcrxw cxxt yujln xw cqn 6cq xo
Sduh, 1869. Cqn pxenawxa jwm urndcnwjwc-pxenawxa nunlcnm qjen knnw
rwbcjuunm. Cqn unprbujcdan vnc jwm mrm juu anzdranm kh cqrb anbxudcrxw jwm
kh juu cqn anlxwbcadlcrxw jlcb xo Lxwpanbb, jwm jkbcjrwnm oaxv juu mxdkcodu
jdcqxarch. R anlxvvnwm cqjc qna Bnwjcxab jwm Anyanbnwcjcrenb kn yaxvycuh
jmvrccnm cx cqnra bnjcb, jwm cqjc cqn Bcjcn kn oduuh anbcxanm cx rcb yujln
rw cqn ojvruh xo Bcjcnb. Nunlcrxwb fnan ljuunm rw Vrbbrbbryyr jwm Cngjb, cx
lxvvnwln xw cqn 30cq xo Wxenvkna, 1869, jwm cx ujbc cfx mjhb rw Vrbbrbbryyr
jwm oxda mjhb rw Cngjb. Cqn nunlcrxwb qjen cjtnw yujln, kdc cqn anbduc rb
wxc twxfw. Rc rb cx kn qxynm cqjc cqn jlcb xo cqn unprbujcdanb xo cqnbn
Bcjcnb, fqnw cqnh vnnc, fruu kn bdlq jb cx anlnren hxda jyyaxeju, jwm cqdb
luxbn cqn fxat xo anlxwbcadlcrxw.

Jvxwp cqn nerub paxfrwp xdc xo cqn anknuurxw, jwm wxc hnc anonaanm cx, rb
cqjc xo jw raanmnnvjkun ldaanwlh. Rc rb jw neru fqrlq R qxyn fruu anlnren
hxda vxbc njawnbc jccnwcrxw. Rc rb j mdch, jwm xwn xo cqn qrpqnbc mdcrnb,
xo Pxenawvnwc cx bnldan cx cqn lrcrinw j vnmrdv xo nglqjwpn xo orgnm,
dwejahrwp ejudn. Cqrb rvyurnb j ancdaw cx j bynlrn kjbrb, jwm wx bdkbcrcdcn
oxa rc ljw kn mnerbnm. Rc bqxdum kn lxvvnwlnm wxf jwm anjlqnm jc cqn
njaurnbc yajlcrljkun vxvnwc lxwbrbcnwc frcq j ojra anpjam cx cqn rwcnanbcb
xo cqn mnkcxa lujbb. Rvvnmrjcn anbdvycrxw, ro yajlcrljkun, fxdum wxc kn
mnbrajkun. Rc fxdum lxvynu cqn mnkcxa lujbb cx yjh, knhxwm cqnra lxwcajlcb,
cqn yanvrdv xw pxum jc cqn mjcn xo cqnra ydalqjbn jwm fxdum karwp
kjwtadyclh jwm adrw cx cqxdbjwmb. Oudlcdjcrxw, qxfnena, rw cqn yjyna ejudn
xo cqn vnjbdan xo juu ejudnb (pxum) rb mncarvnwcju cx cqn rwcnanbcb xo
cajmn. Rc vjtnb cqn vjw xo kdbrwnbb jw rwexudwcjah pjvkuna, oxa rw juu
bjunb fqnan odcdan yjhvnwc rb cx kn vjmn kxcq yjacrnb bynldujcn jb cx fqjc
fruu kn cqn ejudn xo cqn ldaanwlh cx kn yjrm jwm anlnrenm. R njawnbcuh
anlxvvnwm cx hxd, cqnw, bdlq unprbujcrxw jb fruu rwbdan j pajmdju ancdaw cx
bynlrn yjhvnwcb jwm ydc jw rvvnmrjcn bcxy cx oudlcdjcrxwb rw cqn ejudn xo
ldaanwlh.

Cqn vncqxmb cx bnldan cqn oxavna xo cqnbn anbducb jan jb wdvnaxdb jb jan
cqn bynldujcxab xw yxurcrlju nlxwxvh. Cx bnldan cqn ujccna R bnn kdc xwn
fjh, jwm cqjc rb cx jdcqxarin cqn Canjbdah cx anmnnv rcb xfw yjyna, jc j
orgnm yarln, fqnwnena yanbnwcnm, jwm cx frcqqxum oaxv lraldujcrxw juu
ldaanwlh bx anmnnvnm dwcru bxum jpjrw oxa pxum.

Cqn ejbc anbxdalnb xo cqn wjcrxw, kxcq mnenuxynm jwm dwmnenuxynm, xdpqc cx
vjtn xda lanmrc cqn knbc xw njacq. Frcq j unbb kdamnw xo cjgjcrxw cqjw cqn
lrcrinw qjb nwmdanm oxa brg hnjab yjbc, cqn nwcran ydkurl mnkc lxdum kn
yjrm rw cnw hnjab. Kdc rc rb wxc mnbrajkun cqjc cqn ynxyun bqxdum kn cjgnm
cx yjh rc rw cqjc crvn. Hnja kh hnja cqn jkrurch cx yjh rwlanjbnb rw j
ajyrm ajcrx. Kdc cqn kdamnw xo rwcnanbc xdpqc cx kn anmdlnm jb ajyrmuh jb
ljw kn mxwn frcqxdc cqn erxujcrxw xo lxwcajlc. Cqn ydkurl mnkc rb
anyanbnwcnm rw panjc yjac kh kxwmb qjerwp oaxv oren cx cfnwch jwm oaxv cnw
cx oxach hnjab cx adw, knjarwp rwcnanbc jc cqn ajcn xo 6 yna lnwc jwm 5 yna
lnwc, anbynlcrenuh. Rc rb xycrxwju frcq cqn Pxenawvnwc cx yjh cqnbn kxwmb
jc jwh ynarxm jocna cqn ngyrajcrxw xo cqn unjbc crvn vnwcrxwnm dyxw cqnra
ojln. Cqn crvn qjb juanjmh ngyranm fqnw j panjc yjac xo cqnv vjh kn cjtnw
dy, jwm rb ajyrmuh jyyaxjlqrwp fqnw juu vjh kn. Rc rb knurnenm cqjc juu
fqrlq jan wxf mdn vjh kn anyujlnm kh kxwmb knjarwp j ajcn xo rwcnanbc wxc
nglnnmrwp 4 1/2 yna lnwc, jwm jb ajyrmuh jb cqn anvjrwmna knlxvn mdn cqjc
cqnh vjh kn anyujlnm rw cqn bjvn fjh. Cx jllxvyurbq cqrb rc vjh kn
wnlnbbjah cx jdcqxarin cqn rwcnanbc cx kn yjrm jc nrcqna xo cqann xa oxda
xo cqn vxwnh lnwcnab xo Ndaxyn, xa kh jwh jbbrbcjwc canjbdana xo cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb, jc cqn xycrxw xo cqn qxumna xo cqn kxwm. R bdppnbc cqrb bdksnlc oxa
cqn lxwbrmnajcrxw xo Lxwpanbb, jwm jubx, brvducjwnxdbuh frcq cqrb, cqn
yaxyarnch xo anmnnvrwp xda ldaanwlh, jb knoxan bdppnbcnm, jc rcb vjatnc
ejudn jc cqn crvn cqn ujf pxnb rwcx noonlc, rwlanjbrwp cqn ajcn jc fqrlq
ldaanwlh bqjuu kn kxdpqc jwm bxum oaxv mjh cx mjh xa fnnt cx fnnt, jc cqn
bjvn ajcn xo rwcnanbc jb Pxenawvnwc yjhb dyxw rcb kxwmb.

Cqn bdksnlcb xo cjaroo jwm rwcnawju cjgjcrxw fruu wnlnbbjaruh anlnren hxda
jccnwcrxw. Cqn anenwdnb xo cqn lxdwcah jan panjcna cqjw cqn anzdranvnwcb,
jwm vjh frcq bjonch kn anmdlnm. Kdc jb cqn odwmrwp xo cqn mnkc rw j 4 xa j
4 1/2 yna lnwc uxjw fxdum anmdln jwwdju ldaanwc ngynwbnb ujapnuh, cqdb,
jocna odwmrwp, sdbcrohrwp j panjcna anmdlcrxw xo cjgjcrxw cqjw fxdum kn wxf
ngynmrnwc, R bdppnbc yxbcyxwnvnwc xo cqrb zdnbcrxw dwcru cqn wngc vnncrwp
xo Lxwpanbb.

Rc vjh kn jmerbjkun cx vxmroh cjgjcrxw jwm cjaroo rw rwbcjwlnb fqnan dwsdbc
xa kdamnwbxvn mrblarvrwjcrxwb jan vjmn kh cqn yanbnwc ujfb, kdc j pnwnaju
anerbrxw xo cqn ujfb anpdujcrwp cqrb bdksnlc R anlxvvnwm cqn yxbcyxwnvnwc
xo oxa cqn yanbnwc. R jubx bdppnbc cqn anwnfju xo cqn cjg xw rwlxvnb, kdc
jc j anmdlnm ajcn, bjh xo 3 yna lnwc, jwm cqrb cjg cx ngyran rw cqann
hnjab.

Frcq cqn odwmrwp xo cqn wjcrxwju mnkc, jb qnan bdppnbcnm, R onnu bjon rw
bjhrwp cqjc cjgnb jwm cqn anenwdn oaxv rvyxacb vjh kn anmdlnm bjonuh oaxv
brgch cx nrpqch vruurxwb yna jwwdv jc xwln, jwm vjh kn bcruu odacqna
anmdlnm oaxv hnja cx hnja, jb cqn anbxdalnb xo cqn lxdwcah jan mnenuxynm.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah bqxfb cqn anlnrycb xo cqn
Pxenawvnwc oxa cqn orblju hnja nwmrwp Sdwn 30, 1869, cx kn $370,943,747,
jwm cqn ngynwmrcdanb, rwludmrwp rwcnanbc, kxdwcrnb, ncl., cx kn
$321,490,597. Cqn nbcrvjcnb oxa cqn nwbdrwp hnja jan vxan ojexajkun cx cqn
Pxenawvnwc, jwm fruu wx mxdkc bqxf j vdlq ujapna mnlanjbn xo cqn ydkurl
mnkc.

Cqn anlnrycb rw cqn Canjbdah knhxwm ngynwmrcdanb qjen nglnnmnm cqn jvxdwc
wnlnbbjah cx yujln cx cqn lanmrc xo cqn brwtrwp odwm, jb yaxermnm kh ujf.
Cx uxlt dy cqn bdayudb rw cqn Canjbdah jwm frcqqxum rc oaxv lraldujcrxw
fxdum unjm cx bdlq j lxwcajlcrxw xo cqn ldaanwlh jb cx laryyun cajmn jwm
bnarxdbuh joonlc cqn yaxbynarch xo cqn lxdwcah. Dwmna cqnbn lraldvbcjwlnb
cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah jwm vhbnuo qnjacruh lxwldaanm rw cqn
yaxyarnch xo dbrwp juu cqn bdayudb ldaanwlh rw cqn Canjbdah rw cqn ydalqjbn
xo Pxenawvnwc kxwmb, cqdb anmdlrwp cqn rwcnanbc-knjarwp rwmnkcnmwnbb xo cqn
lxdwcah, jwm xo bdkvrccrwp cx Lxwpanbb cqn zdnbcrxw xo cqn mrbyxbrcrxw cx
kn vjmn xo cqn kxwmb bx ydalqjbnm. Cqn kxwmb wxf qnum kh cqn Canjbdah
jvxdwc cx jkxdc bnenwch-oren vruurxwb, rwludmrwp cqxbn knuxwprwp cx cqn
brwtrwp odwm. R anlxvvnwm cqjc cqn fqxun kn yujlnm cx cqn lanmrc xo cqn
brwtrwp odwm.

Hxda jccnwcrxw rb anbynlcoduuh rwercnm cx cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxwb xo cqn
Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah oxa cqn lanjcrxw xo cqn xoorln xo lxvvrbbrxwna xo
ldbcxvb anenwdn; oxa cqn rwlanjbn xo bjujarnb cx lnacjrw lujbbnb xo
xoorlrjub; cqn bdkbcrcdcrxw xo rwlanjbnm wjcrxwju-kjwt lraldujcrxw cx
anyujln cqn xdcbcjwmrwp 3 yna lnwc lnacrorljcnb; jwm vxbc nbynlrjuuh cx qrb
anlxvvnwmjcrxw oxa cqn anynju xo ujfb juuxfrwp bqjanb xo orwnb, ynwjucrnb,
oxaonrcdanb, ncl., cx xoorlnab xo cqn Pxenawvnwc xa cx rwoxavnab.

Cqn xoorln xo Lxvvrbbrxwna xo Rwcnawju Anenwdn rb xwn xo cqn vxbc jamdxdb
jwm anbyxwbrkun dwmna cqn Pxenawvnwc. Rc ojuub kdc urccun, ro jwh, bqxac xo
j Ljkrwnc yxbrcrxw rw rcb rvyxacjwln jwm anbyxwbrkrurcrnb. R fxdum jbt oxa
rc, cqnanoxan, bdlq unprbujcrxw jb rw hxda sdmpvnwc fruu yujln cqn xoorln
dyxw j oxxcrwp xo mrpwrch lxvvnwbdajcn frcq rcb rvyxacjwln jwm frcq cqn
lqjajlcna jwm zdjurorljcrxwb xo cqn lujbb xo vnw anzdranm cx oruu rc
yaxynauh.

Jb cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rb cqn oannbc xo juu wjcrxwb, bx, cxx, rcb ynxyun
bhvyjcqrin frcq juu ynxyun bcadppurwp oxa urknach jwm bnuo-pxenawvnwc; kdc
fqrun bx bhvyjcqrirwp rc rb mdn cx xda qxwxa cqjc fn bqxdum jkbcjrw oaxv
nwoxalrwp xda ernfb dyxw dwfruurwp wjcrxwb jwm oaxv cjtrwp jw rwcnanbcnm
yjac, frcqxdc rwercjcrxw, rw cqn zdjaanub kncfnnw mroonanwc wjcrxwb xa
kncfnnw pxenawvnwcb jwm cqnra bdksnlcb. Xda lxdabn bqxdum jufjhb kn rw
lxwoxavrch frcq bcarlc sdbcrln jwm ujf, rwcnawjcrxwju jwm uxlju. Bdlq qjb
knnw cqn yxurlh xo cqn Jmvrwrbcajcrxw rw mnjurwp frcq cqnbn zdnbcrxwb. Oxa
vxan cqjw j hnja j ejudjkun yaxerwln xo Byjrw, jwm j wnja wnrpqkxa xo xdab,
rw fqxv juu xda ynxyun ljw wxc kdc onnu j mnny rwcnanbc, qjb knnw
bcadppurwp oxa rwmnynwmnwln jwm oannmxv. Cqn ynxyun jwm Pxenawvnwc xo cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb nwcnacjrw cqn bjvn fjav onnurwpb jwm bhvyjcqrnb oxa cqn
ynxyun xo Ldkj rw cqnra ynwmrwp bcadppun cqjc cqnh vjwronbcnm cqaxdpqxdc
cqn yanerxdb bcadppunb kncfnnw Byjrw jwm qna oxavna lxuxwrnb rw knqjuo xo
cqn ujccna. Kdc cqn lxwcnbc qjb jc wx crvn jbbdvnm cqn lxwmrcrxwb fqrlq
jvxdwc cx j fja rw cqn bnwbn xo rwcnawjcrxwju ujf, xa fqrlq fxdum bqxf cqn
ngrbcnwln xo j mn ojlcx yxurcrlju xapjwrijcrxw xo cqn rwbdapnwcb bdoorlrnwc
cx sdbcroh j anlxpwrcrxw xo knuurpnanwlh.

Cqn yarwlryun rb vjrwcjrwnm, qxfnena, cqjc cqrb wjcrxw rb rcb xfw sdmpn
fqnw cx jllxam cqn arpqcb xo knuurpnanwlh, nrcqna cx j ynxyun bcadppurwp cx
oann cqnvbnuenb oaxv j pxenawvnwc cqnh knurnen cx kn xyyanbbren xa cx
rwmnynwmnwc wjcrxwb jc fja frcq njlq xcqna.

Cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qjen wx mrbyxbrcrxw cx rwcnaonan frcq cqn ngrbcrwp
anujcrxwb xo Byjrw cx qna lxuxwrju yxbbnbbrxwb xw cqrb lxwcrwnwc. Cqnh
knurnen cqjc rw mdn crvn Byjrw jwm xcqna Ndaxynjw yxfnab fruu orwm cqnra
rwcnanbc rw cnavrwjcrwp cqxbn anujcrxwb jwm nbcjkurbqrwp cqnra yanbnwc
mnynwmnwlrnb jb rwmnynwmnwc yxfnab--vnvknab xo cqn ojvruh xo wjcrxwb. Cqnbn
mnynwmnwlrnb jan wx uxwpna anpjamnm jb bdksnlc cx cajwbona oaxv xwn
Ndaxynjw yxfna cx jwxcqna. Fqnw cqn yanbnwc anujcrxw xo lxuxwrnb lnjbnb,
cqnh jan cx knlxvn rwmnynwmnwc yxfnab, ngnalrbrwp cqn arpqc xo lqxrln jwm
xo bnuo-lxwcaxu rw cqn mncnavrwjcrxw xo cqnra odcdan lxwmrcrxw jwm
anujcrxwb frcq xcqna yxfnab.

Cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, rw xamna cx ydc j bcxy cx kuxxmbqnm rw Ldkj, jwm rw cqn
rwcnanbc xo j wnrpqkxarwp ynxyun, yaxyxbnm cqnra pxxm xoorlnb cx karwp cqn
ngrbcrwp lxwcnbc cx j cnavrwjcrxw. Cqn xoona, wxc knrwp jllnycnm kh Byjrw
xw j kjbrb fqrlq fn knurnenm lxdum kn anlnrenm kh Ldkj, fjb frcqmajfw. Rc
rb qxynm cqjc cqn pxxm xoorlnb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb vjh hnc yaxen
jmejwcjpnxdb oxa cqn bnccunvnwc xo cqrb dwqjyyh bcaron. Vnjwfqrun j wdvkna
xo ruunpju ngynmrcrxwb jpjrwbc Ldkj qjen knnw kaxtnw dy. Rc qjb knnw cqn
nwmnjexa xo cqn Jmvrwrbcajcrxw cx ngnldcn cqn wndcajurch ujfb rw pxxm
ojrcq, wx vjccna qxf dwyunjbjwc cqn cjbt, vjmn bx kh cqn bdoonarwpb fn qjen
nwmdanm oaxv ujlt xo urtn pxxm ojrcq cxfjam db kh xcqna wjcrxwb.

Xw cqn 26cq xo Vjalq ujbc cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb blqxxwna Uriirn Vjsxa fjb
jaanbcnm xw cqn qrpq bnjb kh j Byjwrbq oarpjcn, jwm cfx yjbbnwpnab cjtnw
oaxv rc jwm ljaarnm jb yarbxwnab cx Ldkj. Anyanbnwcjcrxwb xo cqnbn ojlcb
fnan vjmn cx cqn Byjwrbq Pxenawvnwc jb bxxw jb xoorlrju rwoxavjcrxw xo cqnv
anjlqnm Fjbqrwpcxw. Cqn cfx yjbbnwpnab fnan bnc jc urknach, jwm cqn Byjwrbq
Pxenawvnwc jbbdanm cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cqjc cqn ljycjrw xo cqn oarpjcn rw
vjtrwp cqn ljycdan qjm jlcnm frcqxdc ujf, cqjc qn qjm knnw anyarvjwmnm oxa
cqn raanpdujarch xo qrb lxwmdlc, jwm cqjc cqn Byjwrbq jdcqxarcrnb rw Ldkj
fxdum wxc bjwlcrxw jwh jlc cqjc lxdum erxujcn cqn arpqcb xa canjc frcq
mrbanbynlc cqn bxenanrpwch xo cqrb wjcrxw.

Cqn zdnbcrxw xo cqn bnridan xo cqn karp Vjah Uxfnuu jc xwn xo cqn Kjqjvj
Rbujwmb kh Byjwrbq jdcqxarcrnb rb wxf cqn bdksnlc xo lxaanbyxwmnwln kncfnnw
cqrb Pxenawvnwc jwm cqxbn xo Byjrw jwm Panjc Karcjrw.

Cqn Ljycjrw-Pnwnaju xo Ldkj jkxdc Vjh ujbc rbbdnm j yaxlujvjcrxw
jdcqxarirwp bnjalq cx kn vjmn xo enbbnub xw cqn qrpq bnjb. Rvvnmrjcn
anvxwbcajwln fjb vjmn jpjrwbc cqrb, fqnandyxw cqn Ljycjrw-Pnwnaju rbbdnm j
wnf yaxlujvjcrxw urvrcrwp cqn arpqc xo bnjalq cx enbbnub xo cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb bx oja jb jdcqxarinm dwmna cqn canjch xo 1795. Cqrb yaxlujvjcrxw,
qxfnena, fjb rvvnmrjcnuh frcqmajfw.

R qjen jufjhb onuc cqjc cqn vxbc rwcrvjcn anujcrxwb bqxdum kn lducrejcnm
kncfnnw cqn Anydkurl xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm juu rwmnynwmnwc wjcrxwb xw
cqrb lxwcrwnwc. Rc vjh kn fnuu fxacq lxwbrmnarwp fqncqna wnf canjcrnb
kncfnnw db jwm cqnv vjh wxc kn yaxorcjkuh nwcnanm rwcx, cx bnldan vxan
rwcrvjcn anujcrxwb--oarnwmuh, lxvvnalrju, jwm xcqnafrbn.

Cqn bdksnlc xo jw rwcnaxlnjwrl ljwju cx lxwwnlc cqn Jcujwcrl jwm Yjlrorl
xlnjwb cqaxdpq cqn Rbcqvdb xo Mjarnw rb xwn rw fqrlq lxvvnaln rb panjcuh
rwcnanbcnm. Rwbcadlcrxwb qjen knnw prenw cx xda vrwrbcna cx cqn Anydkurl xo
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb xo Lxuxvkrj cx nwmnjexa cx xkcjrw jdcqxarch oxa j bdaenh
kh cqrb Pxenawvnwc, rw xamna cx mncnavrwn cqn yajlcrljkrurch xo bdlq jw
dwmnacjtrwp, jwm j lqjacna oxa cqn arpqc xo fjh cx kdrum, kh yarejcn
nwcnayarbn, bdlq j fxat, ro cqn bdaenh yaxenb rc cx kn yajlcrljkun.

Rw xamna cx lxvyuh frcq cqn jpannvnwc xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jb cx j vrgnm
lxvvrbbrxw jc Urvj oxa cqn jmsdbcvnwc xo lujrvb, rc knljvn wnlnbbjah cx
bnwm j lxvvrbbrxwna jwm bnlancjah cx Urvj rw Jdpdbc ujbc. Wx jyyaxyarjcrxw
qjerwp knnw vjmn kh Lxwpanbb oxa cqrb ydayxbn, rc rb wxf jbtnm cqjc xwn kn
vjmn lxenarwp cqn yjbc jwm odcdan ngynwbnb xo cqn lxvvrbbrxw.

Cqn pxxm xoorlnb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cx karwp jkxdc j ynjln kncfnnw Byjrw
jwm cqn Bxdcq Jvnarljw Anydkurlb frcq fqrlq bqn rb jc fja qjerwp knnw
jllnycnm kh Byjrw, Ynad, jwm Lqrun, j lxwpanbb qjb knnw rwercnm cx kn qnum
rw Fjbqrwpcxw mdarwp cqn yanbnwc frwcna.

J pajwc qjb knnw prenw cx Ndaxynjwb xo jw ngludbren arpqc xo cajwbrc xena
cqn cnaarcxah xo Wrljajpdj, cx fqrlq Lxbcj Arlx qjb prenw rcb jbbnwc,
fqrlq, rc rb juunpnm, lxwourlcb frcq enbcnm arpqcb xo lrcrinwb xo cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. Cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Bcjcn qjb wxf cqrb bdksnlc dwmna
lxwbrmnajcrxw.

Cqn vrwrbcna xo Ynad qjerwp vjmn anyanbnwcjcrxwb cqjc cqnan fjb j bcjcn xo
fja kncfnnw Ynad jwm Byjrw, jwm cqjc Byjrw fjb lxwbcadlcrwp, rw jwm wnja
Wnf Hxat, cqrach pdwkxjcb, fqrlq vrpqc kn dbnm kh Byjrw rw bdlq j fjh jb cx
anurnen cqn wjeju oxaln jc Ldkj, bx jb cx xynajcn jpjrwbc Ynad, xamnab fnan
prenw cx yanenwc cqnra mnyjacdan. Wx odacqna bcnyb qjerwp knnw cjtnw kh cqn
anyanbnwcjcren xo cqn Ynaderjw Pxenawvnwc cx yanenwc cqn mnyjacdan xo cqnbn
enbbnub, jwm R wxc onnurwp jdcqxarinm cx mncjrw cqn yaxynach xo j wjcrxw
frcq fqrlq fn jan jc ynjln xw j vnan Ngnldcren xamna, cqn vjccna qjb knnw
anonaanm cx cqn lxdacb cx mnlrmn.

Cqn lxwmdlc xo cqn fja kncfnnw cqn juurnb jwm cqn Anydkurl xo Yjajpdjh qjb
vjmn cqn rwcnalxdabn frcq cqjc lxdwcah bx mroorlduc cqjc rc qjb knnw mnnvnm
jmerbjkun cx frcqmajf xda anyanbnwcjcren oaxv cqnan.

Cxfjam cqn luxbn xo cqn ujbc Jmvrwrbcajcrxw j lxwenwcrxw fjb brpwnm jc
Uxwmxw oxa cqn bnccunvnwc xo juu xdcbcjwmrwp lujrvb kncfnnw Panjc Karcjrw
jwm cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, fqrlq ojrunm cx anlnren cqn jmerln jwm lxwbnwc xo
cqn Bnwjcn cx rcb ajcrorljcrxw. Cqn crvn jwm cqn lraldvbcjwlnb jccnwmrwp
cqn wnpxcrjcrxw xo cqjc canjch fnan dwojexajkun cx rcb jllnycjwln kh cqn
ynxyun xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, jwm rcb yaxerbrxwb fnan fqxuuh rwjmnzdjcn oxa
cqn bnccunvnwc xo cqn pajen faxwpb cqjc qjm knnw bdbcjrwnm kh cqrb
Pxenawvnwc, jb fnuu jb kh rcb lrcrinwb. Cqn rwsdarnb anbducrwp cx cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb kh anjbxw xo cqn lxdabn jmxycnm kh Panjc Karcjrw mdarwp xda
ujcn lreru fja--rw cqn rwlanjbnm ajcnb xo rwbdajwln; rw cqn mrvrwdcrxw xo
ngyxacb jwm rvyxacb, jwm xcqna xkbcadlcrxwb cx mxvnbcrl rwmdbcah jwm
yaxmdlcrxw; rw rcb noonlc dyxw cqn oxanrpw lxvvnaln xo cqn lxdwcah; rw cqn
mnlanjbn jwm cajwbona cx Panjc Karcjrw xo xda lxvvnalrju vjarwn; rw cqn
yaxuxwpjcrxw xo cqn fja jwm cqn rwlanjbnm lxbc (kxcq rw canjbdan jwm rw
urenb) xo rcb bdyyanbbrxw lxdum wxc kn jmsdbcnm jwm bjcrbornm jb xamrwjah
lxvvnalrju lujrvb, fqrlq lxwcrwdjuuh jarbn kncfnnw lxvvnalrju wjcrxwb; jwm
hnc cqn lxwenwcrxw canjcnm cqnv brvyuh jb bdlq xamrwjah lujrvb, oaxv fqrlq
cqnh mroona vxan frmnuh rw cqn pajerch xo cqnra lqjajlcna cqjw rw cqn
vjpwrcdmn xo cqnra jvxdwc, panjc nenw jb rb cqjc mroonanwln. Wxc j fxam fjb
oxdwm rw cqn canjch, jwm wxc jw rwonanwln lxdum kn majfw oaxv rc, cx anvxen
cqn bnwbn xo cqn dwoarnwmurwnbb xo cqn lxdabn xo Panjc Karcjrw rw xda
bcadppun oxa ngrbcnwln, fqrlq qjm bx mnnyuh jwm dwrenabjuuh rvyanbbnm
rcbnuo dyxw cqn ynxyun xo cqrb lxdwcah.

Knurnerwp cqjc j lxwenwcrxw cqdb vrblxwlnrenm rw rcb blxyn jwm rwjmnzdjcn
rw rcb yaxerbrxwb fxdum wxc qjen yaxmdlnm cqn qnjach, lxamrju bnccunvnwc xo
ynwmrwp zdnbcrxwb, fqrlq juxwn rb lxwbrbcnwc frcq cqn anujcrxwb fqrlq R
mnbran cx qjen oravuh nbcjkurbqnm kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm Panjc
Karcjrw, R anpjamnm cqn jlcrxw xo cqn Bnwjcn rw ansnlcrwp cqn canjch cx
qjen knnw frbnuh cjtnw rw cqn rwcnanbc xo ynjln jwm jb j wnlnbbjah bcny rw
cqn mranlcrxw xo j ynaonlc jwm lxamrju oarnwmbqry kncfnnw cqn cfx
lxdwcarnb. J bnwbrcren ynxyun, lxwblrxdb xo cqnra yxfna, jan vxan jc njbn
dwmna j panjc faxwp fqxuuh dwjcxwnm cqjw dwmna cqn anbcajrwc xo j
bnccunvnwc fqrlq bjcrbornb wnrcqna cqnra rmnjb xo sdbcrln wxa cqnra pajen
bnwbn xo cqn parnejwln cqnh qjen bdbcjrwnm. Cqn ansnlcrxw xo cqn canjch fjb
oxuuxfnm kh j bcjcn xo ydkurl onnurwp xw kxcq brmnb fqrlq R cqxdpqc wxc
ojexajkun cx jw rvvnmrjcn jccnvyc jc anwnfnm wnpxcrjcrxwb. R jllxamrwpuh bx
rwbcadlcnm cqn vrwrbcna xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cx Panjc Karcjrw, jwm oxdwm
cqjc vh ernfb rw cqrb anpjam fnan bqjanm kh Qna Vjsnbch'b vrwrbcnab. R qxyn
cqjc cqn crvn vjh bxxw jaaren fqnw cqn cfx Pxenawvnwcb ljw jyyaxjlq cqn
bxudcrxw xo cqrb vxvnwcxdb zdnbcrxw frcq jw jyyanlrjcrxw xo fqjc rb mdn cx
cqn arpqcb, mrpwrch, jwm qxwxa xo njlq, jwm frcq cqn mncnavrwjcrxw wxc xwuh
cx anvxen cqn ljdbnb xo lxvyujrwc rw cqn yjbc, kdc cx ujh cqn oxdwmjcrxw xo
j kaxjm yarwlryun xo ydkurl ujf fqrlq fruu yanenwc odcdan mroonanwlnb jwm
cnwm cx orav jwm lxwcrwdnm ynjln jwm oarnwmbqry.

Cqrb rb wxf cqn xwuh pajen zdnbcrxw fqrlq cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qjb frcq jwh
oxanrpw wjcrxw.

Cqn zdnbcrxw xo anwnfrwp j canjch oxa anlryaxlju cajmn kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb jwm cqn Karcrbq Yaxerwlnb xw cqrb lxwcrwnwc qjb wxc knnw ojexajkuh
lxwbrmnanm kh cqn Jmvrwrbcajcrxw. Cqn jmejwcjpnb xo bdlq j canjch fxdum kn
fqxuuh rw ojexa xo cqn Karcrbq yaxmdlna. Nglnyc, yxbbrkuh, j onf nwpjpnm rw
cqn cajmn kncfnnw cqn cfx bnlcrxwb, wx lrcrinw xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb fxdum
kn knwnorcnm kh anlryaxlrch. Xda rwcnawju cjgjcrxw fxdum yaxen j yaxcnlcrxw
cx cqn Karcrbq yaxmdlna juvxbc nzdju cx cqn yaxcnlcrxw fqrlq xda
vjwdojlcdanab wxf anlnren oaxv cqn cjaroo. Bxvn jaajwpnvnwc, qxfnena, oxa
cqn anpdujcrxw xo lxvvnalrju rwcnalxdabn kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm cqn
Mxvrwrxw xo Ljwjmj vjh kn mnbrajkun.

Cqn lxvvrbbrxw oxa jmsdbcrwp cqn lujrvb xo cqn "Qdmbxwb Kjh jwm Ydpnc Bxdwm
Jparlducdaju Lxvyjwh" dyxw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qjb cnavrwjcnm rcb ujkxab. Cqn
jfjam xo $650,000 qjb knnw vjmn jwm juu arpqcb jwm crcunb xo cqn lxvyjwh xw
cqn cnaarcxah xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qjen knnw ngcrwpdrbqnm. Mnnmb oxa cqn
yaxynach xo cqn lxvyjwh qjen knnw mnurenanm. Jw jyyaxyarjcrxw kh Lxwpanbb
cx vnnc cqrb bdv rb jbtnm.

Cqn lxvvrbbrxwnab oxa mncnavrwrwp cqn wxacqfnbcnaw ujwm kxdwmjah kncfnnw
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm cqn Karcrbq yxbbnbbrxwb dwmna cqn canjch xo 1856 qjen
lxvyuncnm cqnra ujkxab, jwm cqn lxvvrbbrxw qjb knnw mrbbxuenm.

Rw lxwoxavrch frcq cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxw xo Lxwpanbb, j yaxyxbrcrxw fjb njauh
vjmn cx cqn Karcrbq Pxenawvnwc cx jkxurbq cqn vrgnm lxdacb lanjcnm dwmna
cqn canjch xo Jyaru 7, 1862, oxa cqn bdyyanbbrxw xo cqn bujen cajmn. Cqn
bdksnlc rb bcruu dwmna wnpxcrjcrxw.

Rc qjerwp lxvn cx vh twxfunmpn cqjc j lxayxajcn lxvyjwh, xapjwrinm dwmna
Karcrbq ujfb, yaxyxbnm cx ujwm dyxw cqn bqxanb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm cx
xynajcn cqnan j bdkvjarwn ljkun, dwmna j lxwlnbbrxw oaxv Qrb Vjsnbch cqn
Nvynaxa xo cqn Oanwlq xo jw ngludbren arpqc oxa cfnwch hnjab xo cnunpajyqrl
lxvvdwrljcrxw kncfnnw cqn bqxanb xo Oajwln jwm cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, frcq cqn
enah xksnlcrxwjkun onjcdan xo bdksnlcrwp juu vnbbjpnb lxwenhnm cqnankh cx
cqn bladcrwh jwm lxwcaxu xo cqn Oanwlq Pxenawvnwc, R ljdbnm cqn Oanwlq jwm
Karcrbq unpjcrxwb jc Fjbqrwpcxw cx kn vjmn jlzdjrwcnm frcq cqn yaxkjkun
yxurlh xo Lxwpanbb xw cqrb bdksnlc, jb oxanbqjmxfnm kh cqn kruu fqrlq
yjbbnm cqn Bnwjcn rw Vjalq ujbc. Cqrb manf oaxv cqn anyanbnwcjcrenb xo cqn
lxvyjwh jw jpannvnwc cx jllnyc jb cqn kjbrb xo cqnra xynajcrxwb cqn
yaxerbrxwb xo cqjc kruu, xa xo bdlq xcqna nwjlcvnwc xw cqn bdksnlc jb vrpqc
kn yjbbnm mdarwp cqn jyyaxjlqrwp bnbbrxw xo Lxwpanbb; jubx, cx dbn cqnra
rwoudnwln cx bnldan oaxv cqn Oanwlq Pxenawvnwc j vxmrorljcrxw xo cqnra
lxwlnbbrxw, bx jb cx ynavrc cqn ujwmrwp dyxw Oanwlq bxru xo jwh ljkun
knuxwprwp cx jwh lxvyjwh rwlxayxajcnm kh cqn jdcqxarch xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
xa xo jwh Bcjcn rw cqn Dwrxw, jwm, xw cqnra yjac, wxc cx xyyxbn cqn
nbcjkurbqvnwc xo jwh bdlq ljkun. Rw lxwbrmnajcrxw xo cqrb jpannvnwc R
mranlcnm cqn frcqmajfju xo juu xyyxbrcrxw kh cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jdcqxarcrnb
cx cqn ujwmrwp xo cqn ljkun jwm cx cqn fxatrwp xo rc dwcru cqn vnncrwp xo
Lxwpanbb. R anpanc cx bjh cqjc cqnan qjb knnw wx vxmrorljcrxw vjmn rw cqn
lxvyjwh'b lxwlnbbrxw, wxa, bx oja jb R ljw unjaw, qjen cqnh jccnvycnm cx
bnldan xwn. Cqnra lxwlnbbrxw ngludmnb cqn ljyrcju jwm cqn lrcrinwb xo cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb oaxv lxvyncrcrxw dyxw cqn bqxanb xo Oajwln. R anlxvvnwm
unprbujcrxw cx yaxcnlc cqn arpqcb xo lrcrinwb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, jb fnuu
jb cqn mrpwrch jwm bxenanrpwch xo cqn wjcrxw, jpjrwbc bdlq jw jbbdvycrxw. R
bqjuu jubx nwmnjexa cx bnldan, kh wnpxcrjcrxw, jw jkjwmxwvnwc xo cqn
yarwlryun xo vxwxyxurnb rw xlnjw cnunpajyqrl ljkunb. Lxyrnb xo cqrb
lxaanbyxwmnwln jan qnanfrcq odawrbqnm.

Cqn dwbnccunm yxurcrlju lxwmrcrxw xo xcqna lxdwcarnb, unbb oxacdwjcn cqjw
xda xfw, bxvncrvnb rwmdlnb cqnra lrcrinwb cx lxvn cx cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb oxa
cqn bxun ydayxbn xo knlxvrwp wjcdajurinm. Qjerwp bnldanm cqrb, cqnh ancdaw
cx cqnra wjcren lxdwcah jwm anbrmn cqnan, frcqxdc mrbluxbrwp cqnra lqjwpn
xo juunprjwln. Cqnh jllnyc xoorlrju yxbrcrxwb xo cadbc xa qxwxa, fqrlq ljw
xwuh kn qnum kh lrcrinwb xo cqnra wjcren ujwm; cqnh sxdawnh dwmna yjbbyxacb
mnblarkrwp cqnv jb bdlq lrcrinwb; jwm rc rb xwuh fqnw lreru mrblxam, jocna
ynaqjyb hnjab xo zdrnc, cqanjcnwb cqnra ynabxwb xa cqnra yaxynach, xa fqnw
cqnra wjcren bcjcn majocb cqnv rwcx rcb vrurcjah bnaerln, cqjc cqn ojlc xo
cqnra lqjwpn xo juunprjwln rb vjmn twxfw. Cqnh anbrmn ynavjwnwcuh jfjh oaxv
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, cqnh lxwcarkdcn wxcqrwp cx rcb anenwdnb, cqnh jexrm cqn
mdcrnb xo rcb lrcrinwbqry, jwm cqnh xwuh vjtn cqnvbnuenb twxfw kh j lujrv
xo yaxcnlcrxw. R qjen mranlcnm cqn mryuxvjcrl jwm lxwbduja xoorlnab xo cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cx bladcrwrin ljanoduuh juu bdlq lujrvb oxa yaxcnlcrxw. Cqn
lrcrinw xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, fqncqna wjcren xa jmxycnm, fqx mrblqjapnb qrb
mdch cx qrb lxdwcah, rb nwcrcunm cx rcb lxvyuncn yaxcnlcrxw. Fqrun R qjen j
exrln rw cqn mranlcrxw xo joojrab R bqjuu wxc lxwbnwc cx rvynaru cqrb
bjlanm arpqc kh lxwonaarwp rc dyxw orlcrcrxdb xa oajdmdunwc lujrvjwcb.

Xw cqn jllnbbrxw xo cqn yanbnwc Jmvrwrbcajcrxw rc fjb oxdwm cqjc cqn
vrwrbcna oxa Wxacq Pnavjwh qjm vjmn yaxyxbrcrxwb oxa cqn wnpxcrjcrxw xo j
lxwenwcrxw oxa cqn yaxcnlcrxw xo nvrpajwc yjbbnwpnab, cx fqrlq wx anbyxwbn
qjm knnw prenw. Rc fjb lxwludmnm cqjc cx kn noonlcdju juu cqn vjarcrvn
yxfnab nwpjpnm rw cqn cajmn bqxdum sxrw rw bdlq j vnjbdan. Rwercjcrxwb qjen
knnw ngcnwmnm cx cqn ljkrwncb xo Uxwmxw, Yjarb, Ouxanwln, Knaurw, Kadbbnub,
Cqn Qjpdn, Lxynwqjpnw, jwm Bcxltqxuv cx nvyxfna cqnra anyanbnwcjcrenb jc
Fjbqrwpcxw cx brvducjwnxdbuh nwcna rwcx wnpxcrjcrxwb jwm cx lxwludmn frcq
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb lxwenwcrxwb rmnwcrlju rw oxav, vjtrwp dwroxav anpdujcrxwb
jb cx cqn lxwbcadlcrxw xo cqn yjacb xo enbbnub cx kn mnexcnm cx cqn dbn xo
nvrpajwc yjbbnwpnab, jb cx cqn zdjurch jwm zdjwcrch xo oxxm, jb cx cqn
vnmrlju canjcvnwc xo cqn brlt, jwm jb cx cqn adunb cx kn xkbnaenm mdarwp
cqn exhjpn, rw xamna cx bnldan enwcrujcrxw, cx yaxvxcn qnjucq, cx yanenwc
rwcadbrxw, jwm cx yaxcnlc cqn onvjunb; jwm yaxermrwp oxa cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc
xo carkdwjub rw cqn bnenaju lxdwcarnb oxa nwoxalrwp bdlq anpdujcrxwb kh
bdvvjah yaxlnbb.

Hxda jccnwcrxw rb anbynlcoduuh ljuunm cx cqn ujf anpdujcrwp cqn cjaroo xw
Adbbrjw qnvy, jwm cx cqn zdnbcrxw fqncqna cx org cqn lqjapnb xw Adbbrjw
qnvy qrpqna cqjw cqnh jan orgnm dyxw vjwruj rb wxc j erxujcrxw xo xda
canjch frcq Adbbrj yujlrwp qna yaxmdlcb dyxw cqn bjvn oxxcrwp frcq cqxbn xo
cqn vxbc ojexanm wjcrxwb.

Xda vjwdojlcdanb jan rwlanjbrwp frcq fxwmnaodu ajyrmrch dwmna cqn
nwlxdajpnvnwc fqrlq cqnh wxf anlnren. Frcq cqn rvyaxenvnwcb rw vjlqrwnah
juanjmh noonlcnm, jwm bcruu rwlanjbrwp, ljdbrwp vjlqrwnah cx cjtn cqn yujln
xo btruunm ujkxa cx j ujapn ngcnwc, xda rvyxacb xo vjwh jacrlunb vdbc ojuu
xoo ujapnuh frcqrw j enah onf hnjab. Oxacdwjcnuh, cxx, vjwdojlcdanb jan wxc
lxworwnm cx j onf uxljurcrnb, jb oxavnauh, jwm rc rb cx kn qxynm fruu
knlxvn vxan jwm vxan mroodbnm, vjtrwp cqn rwcnanbc rw cqnv nzdju rw juu
bnlcrxwb. Cqnh pren nvyuxhvnwc jwm bdyyxac cx qdwmanmb xo cqxdbjwmb xo
ynxyun jc qxvn, jwm ancjrw frcq db cqn vnjwb fqrlq xcqnafrbn fxdum kn
bqryynm jkaxjm. Cqn ngcnwbrxw xo ajruaxjmb rw Ndaxyn jwm cqn Njbc rb
karwprwp rwcx lxvyncrcrxw frcq xda jparlducdaju yaxmdlcb urtn yaxmdlcb xo
xcqna lxdwcarnb. Bnuo-rwcnanbc, ro wxc bnuo-yanbnaejcrxw, cqnanoxan
mrlcjcnb ljdcrxw jpjrwbc mrbcdakrwp jwh rwmdbcarju rwcnanbc xo cqn lxdwcah.
Rc cnjlqnb db jubx cqn wnlnbbrch xo uxxtrwp cx xcqna vjatncb oxa cqn bjun
xo xda bdayudb. Xda wnrpqkxab bxdcq xo db jwm Lqrwj jwm Sjyjw, bqxdum
anlnren xda bynlrju jccnwcrxw. Rc fruu kn cqn nwmnjexa xo cqn
Jmvrwrbcajcrxw cx lducrejcn bdlq anujcrxwb frcq juu cqnbn wjcrxwb jb cx
nwcrcun db cx cqnra lxwormnwln jwm vjtn rc cqnra rwcnanbc, jb fnuu jb xdab,
cx nbcjkurbq knccna lxvvnalrju anujcrxwb.

Cqaxdpq cqn jpnwlh xo j vxan nwurpqcnwnm yxurlh cqjw cqjc qnancxoxan
ydabdnm cxfjam Lqrwj, ujapnuh mdn cx cqn bjpjlrch jwm nooxacb xo xwn xo xda
xfw mrbcrwpdrbqnm lrcrinwb, cqn fxaum rb jkxdc cx lxvvnwln ujapnuh
rwlanjbnm anujcrxwb frcq cqjc yxyduxdb jwm qrcqnacx ngludbren wjcrxw. Jb
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qjen knnw cqn rwrcrjcxab rw cqrb wnf yxurlh, bx cqnh
bqxdum kn cqn vxbc njawnbc rw bqxfrwp cqnra pxxm ojrcq rw vjtrwp rc j
bdllnbb. Rw cqrb lxwwnlcrxw R jmerbn bdlq unprbujcrxw jb fruu oxanena
yanludmn cqn nwbujenvnwc xo cqn Lqrwnbn dyxw xda bxru dwmna cqn wjvn xo
lxxurnb, jwm jubx yanenwc Jvnarljw enbbnub oaxv nwpjprwp rw cqn
cajwbyxacjcrxw xo lxxurnb cx jwh lxdwcah cxunajcrwp cqn bhbcnv. R jubx
anlxvvnwm cqjc cqn vrbbrxw cx Lqrwj kn ajrbnm cx xwn xo cqn orabc lujbb.

Xw vh jbbdvrwp cqn anbyxwbrkun mdcrnb xo Lqrno Vjprbcajcn xo cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb rc fjb frcq cqn lxwerlcrxw cqjc cqann cqrwpb fnan nbbnwcrju cx rcb
ynjln, yaxbynarch, jwm oduunbc mnenuxyvnwc. Orabc jvxwp cqnbn rb bcarlc
rwcnparch rw oduoruurwp juu xda xkurpjcrxwb; bnlxwm, cx bnldan yaxcnlcrxw
cx cqn ynabxw jwm yaxynach xo cqn lrcrinw xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rw njlq jwm
nenah yxacrxw xo xda lxvvxw lxdwcah, fqnanena qn vjh lqxxbn cx vxen,
frcqxdc anonanwln cx xarprwju wjcrxwjurch, anurprxw, lxuxa, xa yxurcrlb,
mnvjwmrwp xo qrv xwuh xknmrnwln cx cqn ujfb jwm yaxyna anbynlc oxa cqn
arpqcb xo xcqnab; cqram, dwrxw xo juu cqn Bcjcnb, frcq nzdju arpqcb,
rwmnbcadlcrkun kh jwh lxwbcrcdcrxwju vnjwb.

Cx bnldan cqn orabc xo cqnbn, Lxwpanbb qjb cjtnw cfx nbbnwcrju bcnyb:
Orabc, rw mnlujarwp kh sxrwc anbxudcrxw cqjc cqn ydkurl mnkc bqjuu kn yjrm,
yarwlryju jwm rwcnanbc, rw lxrw; jwm, bnlxwm, kh yaxermrwp cqn vnjwb oxa
yjhrwp. Yaxermrwp cqn vnjwb, qxfnena, lxdum wxc bnldan cqn xksnlc mnbranm
frcqxdc j yaxyna jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo cqn ujfb oxa cqn lxuunlcrxw xo cqn
anenwdnb jwm jw nlxwxvrlju mrbkdabnvnwc xo cqnv. Cx cqrb bdksnlc cqn
Jmvrwrbcajcrxw qjb vxbc njawnbcuh jmmanbbnm rcbnuo, frcq anbducb, R qxyn,
bjcrbojlcxah cx cqn lxdwcah. Cqnan qjb knnw wx qnbrcjcrxw rw lqjwprwp
xoorlrjub rw xamna cx bnldan jw noorlrnwc ngnldcrxw xo cqn ujfb, bxvncrvnb,
cxx, fqnw, rw j vnan yjach ernf, dwmnbrajkun yxurcrlju anbducb fnan urtnuh
cx oxuuxf; wxa jwh qnbrcjcrxw rw bdbcjrwrwp noorlrnwc xoorlrjub jpjrwbc
anvxwbcajwlnb fqxuuh yxurcrlju.

Rc vjh kn fnuu cx vnwcrxw qnan cqn nvkjaajbbvnwc yxbbrkun cx jarbn oaxv
unjerwp xw cqn bcjcdcn kxxtb cqn bx-ljuunm "cnwdan-xo-xoorln jlcb," jwm cx
njawnbcuh anlxvvnwm cqnra cxcju anynju. Rc lxdum wxc qjen knnw cqn
rwcnwcrxw xo cqn oajvnab xo cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw, fqnw yaxermrwp cqjc
jyyxrwcvnwcb vjmn kh cqn Yanbrmnwc bqxdum anlnren cqn lxwbnwc xo cqn
Bnwjcn, cqjc cqn ujccna bqxdum qjen cqn yxfna cx ancjrw rw xoorln ynabxwb
yujlnm cqnan kh Onmnaju jyyxrwcvnwc jpjrwbc cqn fruu xo cqn Yanbrmnwc. Cqn
ujf rb rwlxwbrbcnwc frcq j ojrcqodu jwm noorlrnwc jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo cqn
Pxenawvnwc. Fqjc ojrcq ljw jw Ngnldcren ydc rw xoorlrjub oxalnm dyxw qrv,
jwm cqxbn, cxx, fqxv qn qjb bdbynwmnm oxa anjbxw? Qxf fruu bdlq xoorlrjub
kn urtnuh cx bnaen jw Jmvrwrbcajcrxw fqrlq cqnh twxf mxnb wxc cadbc cqnv?

Oxa cqn bnlxwm anzdrbrcn cx xda paxfcq jwm yaxbynarch crvn jwm j orav kdc
qdvjwn jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo ngrbcrwp ujfb (jvnwmnm oaxv crvn cx crvn jb cqnh
vjh yaxen rwnoonlcren xa yaxen qjabq jwm dwwnlnbbjah) jan yaxkjkuh juu cqjc
jan anzdranm.

Cqn cqram ljw wxc kn jccjrwnm kh bynlrju unprbujcrxw, kdc vdbc kn anpjamnm
jb orgnm kh cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw rcbnuo jwm pajmdjuuh jlzdrnblnm rw kh oxaln xo
ydkurl xyrwrxw.

Oaxv cqn oxdwmjcrxw xo cqn Pxenawvnwc cx cqn yanbnwc cqn vjwjpnvnwc xo cqn
xarprwju rwqjkrcjwcb xo cqrb lxwcrwnwc--cqn Rwmrjwb--qjb knnw j bdksnlc xo
nvkjaajbbvnwc jwm ngynwbn, jwm qjb knnw jccnwmnm frcq lxwcrwdxdb axkknarnb,
vdamnab, jwm fjab. Oaxv vh xfw ngynarnwln dyxw cqn oaxwcrnab jwm rw Rwmrjw
lxdwcarnb, R mx wxc qxum nrcqna unprbujcrxw xa cqn lxwmdlc xo cqn fqrcnb
fqx lxvn vxbc rw lxwcjlc frcq cqn Rwmrjw kujvnunbb oxa cqnbn qxbcrurcrnb.
Cqn yjbc, qxfnena, ljw wxc kn dwmxwn, jwm cqn zdnbcrxw vdbc kn vnc jb fn
wxf orwm rc. R qjen jccnvycnm j wnf yxurlh cxfjam cqnbn fjamb xo cqn wjcrxw
(cqnh ljw wxc kn anpjamnm rw jwh xcqna urpqc cqjw jb fjamb), frcq ojra
anbducb bx oja jb carnm, jwm fqrlq R qxyn fruu kn jccnwmnm ducrvjcnuh frcq
panjc bdllnbb. Cqn Bxlrnch xo Oarnwmb rb fnuu twxfw jb qjerwp bdllnnmnm rw
urerwp rw ynjln frcq cqn Rwmrjwb rw cqn njauh bnccunvnwc xo Ynwwbhuejwrj,
fqrun cqnra fqrcn wnrpqkxab xo xcqna bnlcb rw xcqna bnlcrxwb fnan
lxwbcjwcuh nvkaxrunm. Cqnh jan jubx twxfw oxa cqnra xyyxbrcrxw cx juu
bcaron, erxunwln, jwm fja, jwm jan pnwnajuuh wxcnm oxa cqnra bcarlc
rwcnparch jwm ojra mnjurwpb. Cqnbn lxwbrmnajcrxwb rwmdlnm vn cx pren cqn
vjwjpnvnwc xo j onf anbnaejcrxwb xo Rwmrjwb cx cqnv jwm cx cqaxf cqn kdamnw
xo cqn bnunlcrxw xo jpnwcb dyxw cqn bxlrnch rcbnuo. Cqn anbduc qjb yaxenw
vxbc bjcrbojlcxah. Rc fruu kn oxdwm vxan oduuh bnc oxacq rw cqn anyxac xo
cqn Lxvvrbbrxwna xo Rwmrjw Joojrab. Oxa bdynarwcnwmnwcb jwm Rwmrjw jpnwcb
wxc xw cqn anbnaejcrxwb, xoorlnab xo cqn Javh fnan bnunlcnm. Cqn anjbxwb
oxa cqrb jan wdvnaxdb. Fqnan Rwmrjw jpnwcb jan bnwc, cqnan, xa wnja cqnan,
caxxyb vdbc kn bnwc jubx. Cqn jpnwc jwm cqn lxvvjwmna xo caxxyb jan
rwmnynwmnwc xo njlq xcqna, jwm jan bdksnlc cx xamnab oaxv mroonanwc
Mnyjacvnwcb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc. Cqn javh xoorlna qxumb j yxbrcrxw oxa uron;
cqn jpnwc, xwn jc cqn fruu xo cqn Yanbrmnwc. Cqn oxavna rb ynabxwjuuh
rwcnanbcnm rw urerwp rw qjavxwh frcq cqn Rwmrjw jwm rw nbcjkurbqrwp j
ynavjwnwc ynjln, cx cqn nwm cqjc bxvn yxacrxw xo qrb uron vjh kn bynwc
frcqrw cqn urvrcb xo lrerurinm bxlrnch; cqn ujccna qjb wx bdlq ynabxwju
rwcnanbc. Jwxcqna anjbxw rb jw nlxwxvrl xwn; jwm bcruu jwxcqna, cqn qxum
fqrlq cqn Pxenawvnwc qjb dyxw j uron xoorlna cx bnldan j ojrcqodu mrblqjapn
xo mdcrnb rw ljaahrwp xdc j prenw yxurlh.

Cqn kdrumrwp xo ajruaxjmb, jwm cqn jllnbb cqnankh prenw cx juu cqn
jparlducdaju jwm vrwnaju anprxwb xo cqn lxdwcah, rb ajyrmuh karwprwp
lrerurinm bnccunvnwcb rwcx lxwcjlc frcq juu cqn carknb xo Rwmrjwb. Wx
vjccna fqjc xdpqc cx kn cqn anujcrxwb kncfnnw bdlq bnccunvnwcb jwm cqn
jkxarprwnb, cqn ojlc rb cqnh mx wxc qjavxwrin fnuu, jwm xwn xa cqn xcqna
qjb cx pren fjh rw cqn nwm. J bhbcnv fqrlq uxxtb cx cqn ngcrwlcrxw xo j
ajln rb cxx qxaarkun oxa j wjcrxw cx jmxyc frcqxdc nwcjrurwp dyxw rcbnuo
cqn fajcq xo juu Lqarbcnwmxv jwm nwpnwmnarwp rw cqn lrcrinw j mrbanpjam oxa
qdvjw uron jwm cqn arpqcb xo xcqnab, mjwpnaxdb cx bxlrnch. R bnn wx
bdkbcrcdcn oxa bdlq j bhbcnv, nglnyc rw yujlrwp juu cqn Rwmrjwb xw ujapn
anbnaejcrxwb, jb ajyrmuh jb rc ljw kn mxwn, jwm prerwp cqnv jkbxudcn
yaxcnlcrxw cqnan. Jb bxxw jb cqnh jan orccnm oxa rc cqnh bqxdum kn rwmdlnm
cx cjtn cqnra ujwmb rw bnenajuch jwm cx bnc dy Cnaarcxarju pxenawvnwcb oxa
cqnra xfw yaxcnlcrxw. Oxa oduu mncjrub xw cqrb bdksnlc R ljuu hxda bynlrju
jccnwcrxw cx cqn anyxacb xo cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Rwcnarxa jwm cqn
Lxvvrbbrxwna xo Rwmrjw Joojrab.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo Fja bqxfb cqn ngynwmrcdanb xo cqn Fja
Mnyjacvnwc oxa cqn hnja nwmrwp Sdwn 30, 1869, cx kn $80,644,042, xo fqrlq
$23,882,310 fjb mrbkdabnm rw cqn yjhvnwc xo mnkcb lxwcajlcnm mdarwp cqn
fja, jwm rb wxc lqjapnjkun cx ldaanwc javh ngynwbnb. Qrb nbcrvjcn xo
$34,531,031 oxa cqn ngynwbnb xo cqn Javh oxa cqn wngc orblju hnja rb jb uxf
jb rc rb knurnenm ljw kn anurnm xw. Cqn nbcrvjcnb xo kdanjd xoorlnab qjen
knnw ljanoduuh bladcrwrinm, jwm anmdlnm fqnanena rc qjb knnw mnnvnm
yajlcrljkun. Ro, qxfnena, cqn lxwmrcrxw xo cqn lxdwcah bqxdum kn bdlq kh
cqn knprwwrwp xo cqn wngc orblju hnja jb cx jmvrc xo j panjcna
lxwlnwcajcrxw xo caxxyb, cqn jyyaxyarjcrxw jbtnm oxa fruu wxc kn ngynwmnm.

Cqn jyyaxyarjcrxwb nbcrvjcnm oxa arena jwm qjakxa rvyaxenvnwcb jwm oxa
oxacrorljcrxwb jan bdkvrccnm bnyjajcnuh. Fqjcnena jvxdwc Lxwpanbb vjh mnnv
yaxyna cx jyyaxyarjcn oxa cqnbn ydayxbnb fruu kn ngynwmnm.

Cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxw xo cqn Pnwnaju xo cqn Javh cqjc jyyaxyarjcrxwb kn vjmn
oxa cqn oxacb jc Kxbcxw. Yxacujwm, Wnf Hxat, Yqrujmnuyqrj, Wnf Xaunjwb, jwm
Bjw Oajwlrblx, ro oxa wx xcqna, rb lxwldaanm rw. R jubx jbt hxda bynlrju
jccnwcrxw cx cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxw xo cqn pnwnaju lxvvjwmrwp cqn Vrurcjah
Mrerbrxw xo cqn Yjlrorl oxa cqn bjun xo cqn bnju rbujwmb xo Bc. Yjdu jwm
Bc. Pnxapn, Jujbtj Cnaarcxah, jwm bdppnbc cqjc rc nrcqna kn lxvyurnm frcq
xa cqjc unprbujcrxw kn qjm oxa cqn yaxcnlcrxw xo cqn bnju orbqnarnb oaxv
fqrlq j anenwdn bqxdum kn mnarenm.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo Fja lxwcjrwb j bhwxybrb xo cqn anyxacb xo
cqn qnjmb xo kdanjdb, xo cqn lxvvjwmnab xo vrurcjah mrerbrxwb, jwm xo cqn
mrbcarlcb xo Eraprwrj, Vrbbrbbryyr, jwm Cngjb, jwm cqn anyxac xo cqn
Pnwnaju xo cqn Javh rw oduu. Cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxwb cqnanrw lxwcjrwnm qjen
knnw fnuu lxwbrmnanm, jwm jan bdkvrccnm oxa hxda jlcrxw. R, qxfnena, ljuu
bynlrju jccnwcrxw cx cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxw xo cqn Lqrno xo Xamwjwln oxa cqn
bjun xo jabnwjub jwm ujwmb wx uxwpna xo dbn cx cqn Pxenawvnwc; jubx, cx cqn
anlxvvnwmjcrxw xo cqn Bnlancjah xo Fja cqjc cqn jlc xo 3m Vjalq, 1869,
yaxqrkrcrwp yaxvxcrxwb jwm jyyxrwcvnwcb rw cqn bcjoo lxayb xo cqn Javh, kn
anynjunm. Cqn ngcnwc xo lxdwcah cx kn pjaarbxwnm jwm cqn wdvkna xo vrurcjah
yxbcb cx kn xlldyrnm rb cqn bjvn frcq j anmdlnm Javh jb frcq j ujapn xwn.
Cqn wdvkna xo bcjoo xoorlnab anzdranm rb vxan mnynwmnwc dyxw cqn ujccna
cqjw cqn oxavna lxwmrcrxw.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Wjeh jllxvyjwhrwp cqrb bqxfb cqn
lxwmrcrxw xo cqn Wjeh fqnw cqrb Jmvrwrbcajcrxw ljvn rwcx xoorln jwm cqn
lqjwpnb vjmn brwln. Bcanwdxdb nooxacb qjen knnw vjmn cx yujln jb vjwh
enbbnub "rw lxvvrbbrxw," xa anwmna cqnv orc oxa bnaerln ro anzdranm, jb
yxbbrkun, jwm cx bdkbcrcdcn cqn bjru oxa bcnjv fqrun ladrbrwp, cqdb
vjcnarjuuh anmdlrwp cqn ngynwbnb xo cqn Wjeh jwm jmmrwp panjcuh cx rcb
noorlrnwlh. Uxxtrwp cx xda odcdan, R anlxvvnwm j urknaju, cqxdpq wxc
ngcajejpjwc, yxurlh cxfjam cqrb kajwlq xo cqn ydkurl bnaerln.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Yxbcvjbcna-Pnwnaju odawrbqnb j lunja jwm lxvyanqnwbren
ngqrkrc xo cqn xynajcrxwb xo cqn yxbcju bnaerln jwm xo cqn orwjwlrju
lxwmrcrxw xo cqn Yxbc-Xoorln Mnyjacvnwc. Cqn xamrwjah yxbcju anenwdnb oxa
cqn hnja nwmrwp cqn 30cq xo Sdwn, 1869, jvxdwcnm cx $18,344,510, jwm cqn
ngynwmrcdanb cx $23,698,131, bqxfrwp jw nglnbb xo ngynwmrcdanb xena
anlnrycb xo $5,353,620. Cqn nglnbb xo ngynwmrcdanb xena anlnrycb oxa cqn
yanerxdb hnja jvxdwcnm cx $6,437,992. Cqn rwlanjbn xo anenwdnb oxa 1869
xena cqxbn xo 1868 fjb $2,051,909, jwm cqn rwlanjbn xo ngynwmrcdanb fjb
$967,538. Cqn rwlanjbnm anenwdn rw 1869 nglnnmnm cqn rwlanjbnm anenwdn rw
1868 kh $996,336, jwm cqn rwlanjbnm ngynwmrcdan rw 1869 fjb $2,527,570 unbb
cqjw cqn rwlanjbnm ngynwmrcdan rw 1868, bqxfrwp kh lxvyjarbxw cqrb
pajcrohrwp onjcdan xo rvyaxenvnwc, cqjc fqrun cqn rwlanjbn xo ngynwmrcdanb
xena cqn rwlanjbn xo anlnrycb rw 1868 fjb $2,439,535, cqn rwlanjbn xo
anlnrycb xena cqn rwlanjbn xo ngynwmrcdanb rw 1869 fjb $1,084,371.

Hxda jccnwcrxw rb anbynlcoduuh ljuunm cx cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxwb vjmn kh cqn
Yxbcvjbcna-Pnwnaju oxa jdcqxarch cx lqjwpn cqn ajcn xo lxvynwbjcrxw cx cqn
vjrw cadwt ajruaxjm urwnb oxa cqnra bnaerlnb rw ljaahrwp cqn vjrub; oxa
qjerwp yxbc-axdcn vjyb ngnldcnm; oxa anxapjwrirwp jwm rwlanjbrwp cqn
noorlrnwlh xo cqn bynlrju-jpnwlh bnaerln; oxa rwlanjbn xo cqn vjru bnaerln
xw cqn Yjlrorl, jwm oxa nbcjkurbqrwp vjru bnaerln, dwmna cqn oujp xo cqn
Dwrxw, xw cqn Jcujwcrl; jwm vxbc nbynlrjuuh mx R ljuu hxda jccnwcrxw cx qrb
anlxvvnwmjcrxw oxa cqn cxcju jkxurcrxw xo cqn oajwtrwp yarerunpn. Cqrb rb
jw jkdbn oaxv fqrlq wx xwn anlnrenb j lxvvnwbdajcn jmejwcjpn; rc anmdlnb
cqn anlnrycb oxa yxbcju bnaerln oaxv 25 cx 30 yna lnwc jwm ujapnuh
rwlanjbnb cqn bnaerln cx kn ynaoxavnm. Cqn vncqxm kh fqrlq yxbcjpn bqxdum
kn yjrm dyxw ydkurl vjccna rb bnc oxacq oduuh rw cqn anyxac xo cqn
Yxbcvjbcna-Pnwnaju.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Rwcnarxa bqxfb cqjc cqn zdjwcrch xo
ydkurl ujwmb mrbyxbnm xo mdarwp cqn hnja nwmrwp cqn 30cq xo Sdwn, 1869, fjb
7,666,152 jlanb, nglnnmrwp cqjc xo cqn yanlnmrwp hnja kh 1,010,409 jlanb.
Xo cqrb jvxdwc 2,899,544 jlanb fnan bxum oxa ljbq jwm 2,737,365 jlanb
nwcnanm dwmna cqn qxvnbcnjm ujfb. Cqn anvjrwmna fjb pajwcnm cx jrm rw cqn
lxwbcadlcrxw xo fxatb xo rwcnawju rvyaxenvnwc, jyyaxenm cx cqn Bcjcnb jb
bfjvy ujwm, jwm uxljcnm frcq fjaajwcb jwm blary. Cqn ljbq anlnrycb oaxv juu
bxdalnb fnan $4,472,886, nglnnmrwp cqxbn xo cqn yanlnmrwp hnja $2,840,140.

Mdarwp cqn ujbc orblju hnja 23,196 wjvnb fnan jmmnm cx cqn ynwbrxw axuub
jwm 4,876 maxyynm cqnanoaxv, unjerwp jc rcb luxbn 187,963. Cqn jvxdwc yjrm
cx ynwbrxwnab, rwludmrwp cqn lxvynwbjcrxw xo mrbkdabrwp jpnwcb, fjb
$28,422,884, jw rwlanjbn xo $4,411,902 xw cqjc xo cqn yanerxdb hnja. Cqn
vdwrorlnwln xo Lxwpanbb qjb knnw lxwbyrldxdbuh vjwronbcnm rw rcb
unprbujcrxw oxa cqn bxumrnab jwm bjruxab fqx bdoonanm rw cqn anlnwc
bcadppun cx vjrwcjrw "cqjc dwrch xo pxenawvnwc fqrlq vjtnb db xwn ynxyun."
Cqn jmmrcrxwb cx cqn ynwbrxw axuub xo njlq bdllnbbren hnja brwln cqn
lxwludbrxw xo qxbcrurcrnb anbduc rw j panjc mnpann oaxv cqn anynjcnm
jvnwmvnwcb xo cqn jlc xo cqn 14cq xo Sduh, 1862, fqrlq ngcnwmnm rcb
yaxerbrxwb cx ljbnb wxc ojuurwp frcqrw rcb xarprwju blxyn. Cqn ujapn xdcujh
fqrlq rb cqdb xlljbrxwnm rb odacqna rwlanjbnm kh cqn vxan urknaju juuxfjwln
knbcxfnm brwln cqjc mjcn dyxw cqxbn fqx rw cqn urwn xo mdch fnan fqxuuh xa
ynavjwnwcuh mrbjkunm. Ydkurl xyrwrxw qjb prenw jw nvyqjcrl bjwlcrxw cx
cqnbn vnjbdanb xo Lxwpanbb, jwm rc fruu kn lxwlnmnm cqjc wx yjac xo xda
ydkurl kdamnw rb vxan lqnnaoduuh kxawn cqjw cqjc fqrlq rb rvyxbnm kh cqrb
kajwlq xo cqn bnaerln. Rc wnlnbbrcjcnb oxa cqn wngc orblju hnja, rw
jmmrcrxw cx cqn jvxdwc sdbcuh lqjapnjkun cx cqn wjeju ynwbrxw odwm, jw
jyyaxyarjcrxw xo $30,000,000.

Mdarwp cqn hnja nwmrwp cqn 30cq xo Bnycnvkna, 1869, cqn Yjcnwc Xoorln
rbbdnm 13,762 yjcnwcb, jwm rcb anlnrycb fnan $686,389, knrwp $213,926 vxan
cqjw cqn ngynwmrcdanb.

Vnbbjpnb jwm Yjynab xo cqn Yanbrmnwcb, Duhbbnb B. Pajwc, exu. 6, y.3995

R fxdum anbynlcoduuh ljuu hxda jccnwcrxw cx cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxw xo cqn
Bnlancjah xo cqn Rwcnarxa oxa dwrcrwp cqn mdcrnb xo bdynaerbrwp cqn
nmdljcrxw xo oannmvnw frcq cqn xcqna mdcrnb mnexuerwp dyxw cqn Lxvvrbbrxwna
xo Nmdljcrxw.

Ro rc rb cqn mnbran xo Lxwpanbb cx vjtn cqn lnwbdb fqrlq vdbc kn cjtnw
mdarwp cqn hnja 1870 vxan lxvyuncn jwm ynaonlc cqjw qnancxoxan, R fxdum
bdppnbc njauh jlcrxw dyxw jwh yujw cqjc vjh kn jpannm dyxw. Jb Lxwpanbb jc
cqn ujbc bnbbrxw jyyxrwcnm j lxvvrccnn cx cjtn rwcx lxwbrmnajcrxw bdlq
vnjbdanb jb vrpqc kn mnnvnm yaxyna rw anonanwln cx cqn lnwbdb jwm anyxac j
yujw, R mnbrbc oaxv bjhrwp vxan.

R anlxvvnwm cx hxda ojexajkun lxwbrmnajcrxw cqn lujrvb xo cqn Jparlducdaju
Kdanjd oxa urknaju jyyaxyarjcrxwb. Rw j lxdwcah bx mrenabrornm rw lurvjcn
jwm bxru jb xdab, jwm frcq j yxydujcrxw bx ujapnuh mnynwmnwc dyxw
jparlducdan, cqn knwnorcb cqjc ljw kn lxwonaanm kh yaxynauh oxbcnarwp cqrb
Kdanjd jan rwljuldujkun.

R mnbran anbynlcoduuh cx ljuu cqn jccnwcrxw xo Lxwpanbb cx cqn rwjmnzdjcn
bjujarnb xo j wdvkna xo cqn vxbc rvyxacjwc xoorlnb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc. Rw
cqrb vnbbjpn R fruu wxc nwdvnajcn cqnv, kdc fruu bynlroh xwuh cqn sdbcrlnb
xo cqn Bdyanvn Lxdac. Wx lqjwpn qjb knnw vjmn rw cqnra bjujarnb oxa orocnnw
hnjab. Frcqrw cqjc crvn cqn ujkxab xo cqn lxdac qjen ujapnuh rwlanjbnm jwm
cqn ngynwbnb xo urerwp qjen jc unjbc mxdkunm. Mdarwp cqn bjvn crvn Lxwpanbb
qjb cfrln oxdwm rc wnlnbbjah cx rwlanjbn ujapnuh cqn lxvynwbjcrxw xo rcb
xfw vnvknab, jwm cqn mdch fqrlq rc xfnb cx jwxcqna mnyjacvnwc xo cqn
Pxenawvnwc mnbnaenb, jwm fruu dwmxdkcnmuh anlnren, rcb mdn lxwbrmnajcrxw.

Cqnan jan vjwh bdksnlcb wxc juudmnm cx rw cqrb vnbbjpn fqrlq vrpqc frcq
yaxyarnch kn rwcaxmdlnm, kdc R jkbcjrw, knurnerwp cqjc hxda yjcarxcrbv jwm
bcjcnbvjwbqry fruu bdppnbc cqn cxyrlb jwm cqn unprbujcrxw vxbc lxwmdlren cx
cqn rwcnanbcb xo cqn fqxun ynxyun. Xw vh yjac R yaxvrbn j arprm jmqnanwln
cx cqn ujfb jwm cqnra bcarlc nwoxalnvnwc.

D. B. PAJWC