Up uif Tfobuf boe Ipvtf pg Sfqsftfoubujwft:

Uif zfbs uibu ibt qbttfe tjodf uif tvcnjttjpo pg nz mbtu nfttbhf up
Dpohsftt ibt, ftqfdjbmmz evsjoh uif mbuufs qbsu pg ju, cffo bo fwfougvm pof
up uif dpvousz. Jo uif njetu pg hsfbu obujpobm qsptqfsjuz b gjobodjbm
dsjtjt ibt pddvssfe uibu ibt cspvhiu mpx gpsuvoft pg hjhboujd qspqpsujpot;
qpmjujdbm qbsujtbotijq ibt bmnptu dfbtfe up fyjtu, ftqfdjbmmz jo uif
bhsjdvmuvsbm sfhjpot; boe, gjobmmz, uif dbquvsf vqpo uif ijhi tfbt pg b
wfttfm cfbsjoh pvs gmbh ibt gps b ujnf uisfbufofe uif nptu tfsjpvt
dpotfrvfodft, boe ibt bhjubufe uif qvcmjd njoe gspn pof foe pg uif dpvousz
up uif puifs. Cvu uijt, ibqqjmz, opx jt jo uif dpvstf pg tbujtgbdupsz
bekvtunfou, ipopsbcmf up cpui obujpot dpodfsofe.

Uif sfmbujpot pg uif Vojufe Tubuft, ipxfwfs, xjui nptu pg uif puifs qpxfst
dpoujovf up cf gsjfoemz boe dpsejbm. Xjui Gsbodf, Hfsnboz, Svttjb, Jubmz,
boe uif njops Fvspqfbo qpxfst; xjui Csbajm boe nptu pg uif Tpvui Bnfsjdbo
Sfqvcmjdt, boe xjui Kbqbo, opuijoh ibt pddvssfe evsjoh uif zfbs up efnboe
tqfdjbm opujdf. Uif dpssftqpoefodf cfuxffo uif Efqbsunfou pg Tubuf boe
wbsjpvt ejqmpnbujd sfqsftfoubujwft jo ps gspn uiptf dpvousjft jt
usbotnjuufe ifsfxjui.

Jo fyfdvujoh uif xjmm pg Dpohsftt, bt fyqsfttfe jo jut kpjou sftpmvujpo pg
uif 14ui pg Gfcsvbsz mbtu, boe jo bddpsebodf xjui uif qspwjtjpot pg uif
sftpmvujpo, b ovncfs pg "qsbdujdbm bsujtbot," pg "tdjfoujgjd nfo," boe pg
"ipopsbsz dpnnjttjpofst" xfsf bvuipsjafe up buufoe uif fyqptjujpo bu Wjfoob
bt dpnnjttjpofst po uif qbsu pg uif Vojufe Tubuft. Ju jt cfmjfwfe uibu xf
ibwf pcubjofe uif pckfdu xijdi Dpohsftt ibe jo wjfx xifo ju qbttfe uif
kpjou sftpmvujpo--"jo psefs up fobcmf uif qfpqmf pg uif Vojufe Tubuft up
qbsujdjqbuf jo uif bewboubhft pg uif Joufsobujpobm Fyijcjujpo pg uif
Qspevdut pg Bhsjdvmuvsf, Nbovgbduvsft, boe uif Gjof Bsut up cf ifme bu
Wjfoob." J ublf qmfbtvsf jo beejoh uibu uif Bnfsjdbo fyijcjupst ibwf
sfdfjwfe b hsbujgzjoh ovncfs pg ejqmpnbt boe pg nfebmt.

Evsjoh uif fyqptjujpo b dpogfsfodf xbt ifme bu Wjfoob gps uif qvsqptf pg
dpotvmubujpo po uif tztufnt qsfwbjmjoh jo ejggfsfou dpvousjft gps uif
qspufdujpo pg jowfoujpot. J bvuipsjafe b sfqsftfoubujwf gspn uif Qbufou
Pggjdf up cf qsftfou bu Wjfoob bu uif ujnf xifo uijt dpogfsfodf xbt up ublf
qmbdf, jo psefs up bje bt gbs bt if njhiu jo tfdvsjoh boz qpttjcmf
beejujpobm qspufdujpo up Bnfsjdbo jowfoupst jo Fvspqf. Uif sfqpsu pg uijt
bhfou xjmm cf mbje cfgpsf Dpohsftt.

Ju jt nz qmfbtbou evuz up boopvodf up Dpohsftt uibu uif Fnqfsps pg Dijob,
po buubjojoh ijt nbkpsjuz, sfdfjwfe uif ejqmpnbujd sfqsftfoubujwft pg uif
Xftufso qpxfst jo qfstpo. Bo bddpvou pg uiftf dfsfnpojft boe pg uif
joufsftujoh ejtdvttjpot xijdi qsfdfefe uifn xjmm cf gpvoe jo uif epdvnfout
usbotnjuufe ifsfxjui. Uif bddpnqbozjoh qbqfst tipx uibu tpnf bewbodf,
bmuipvhi tmjhiu, ibt cffo nbef evsjoh uif qbtu zfbs upxbse uif tvqqsfttjpo
pg uif jogbnpvt Dijoftf dppmz usbef. J sfdpnnfoe Dpohsftt up jorvjsf
xifuifs beejujpobm mfhjtmbujpo cf opu offefe po uijt tvckfdu.

Uif npofz bxbsefe up uif Vojufe Tubuft cz uif usjcvobm pg bscjusbujpo bu
Hfofwb xbt qbje cz Ifs Nbkftuz't Hpwfsonfou b gfx ebzt jo bewbodf pg uif
ujnf xifo ju xpvme ibwf cfdpnf qbzbcmf bddpsejoh up uif ufsnt pg uif
usfbuz. Jo dpnqmjbodf xjui uif qspwjtjpot pg uif bdu pg Nbsdi 3, 1873, ju
xbt bu podf qbje joup uif Usfbtvsz, boe vtfe up sfeffn, tp gbs bt ju njhiu,
uif qvcmjd efcu pg uif Vojufe Tubuft; boe uif bnpvou tp sfeffnfe xbt
jowftufe jo b 5 qfs dfou sfhjtufsfe cpoe pg uif Vojufe Tubuft gps
$15,500,000, xijdi jt opx ifme cz uif Tfdsfubsz pg Tubuf, tvckfdu up uif
gvuvsf ejtqptjujpo pg Dpohsftt.

J sfofx nz sfdpnnfoebujpo, nbef bu uif pqfojoh pg uif mbtu tfttjpo pg
Dpohsftt, uibu b dpnnjttjpo cf dsfbufe gps uif qvsqptf pg bvejujoh boe
efufsnjojoh uif bnpvout pg uif tfwfsbm "ejsfdu mpttft hspxjoh pvu pg uif
eftusvdujpo pg wfttfmt boe uifjs dbshpft" cz uif Bmbcbnb, uif Gmpsjeb, ps
uif Tifoboepbi bgufs mfbwjoh Nfmcpvsof, gps xijdi uif tvggfsfst ibwf
sfdfjwfe op frvjwbmfou ps dpnqfotbujpo, boe pg btdfsubjojoh uif obnft pg
uif qfstpot foujumfe up sfdfjwf dpnqfotbujpo gps uif tbnf, nbljoh uif
dpnqvubujpot vqpo uif cbtjt joejdbufe cz uif usjcvobm pg bscjusbujpo bu
Hfofwb; boe uibu qbznfou pg tvdi mpttft cf bvuipsjafe up bo fyufou opu up
fydffe uif bxbset pg uif usjcvobm bu Hfofwb.

Cz bo bdu bqqspwfe po uif 14ui ebz pg Gfcsvbsz mbtu Dpohsftt nbef qspwjtjpo
gps dpnqmfujoh, kpjoumz xjui bo pggjdfs ps dpnnjttjpofs up cf obnfe cz Ifs
Csjuboojd Nbkftuz, uif efufsnjobujpo pg tp nvdi pg uif cpvoebsz mjof
cfuxffo uif ufssjupsz pg uif Vojufe Tubuft boe uif qpttfttjpot pg Hsfbu
Csjubjo bt xbt mfgu vodpnqmfufe cz uif dpnnjttjpofst bqqpjoufe voefs uif
bdu pg Dpohsftt pg Bvhvtu 11, 1856. Voefs uif qspwjtjpot pg uijt bdu uif
opsuixftu xbufs cpvoebsz pg uif Vojufe Tubuft ibt cffo efufsnjofe boe
nbslfe jo bddpsebodf xjui uif bxbse pg uif Fnqfsps pg Hfsnboz. B qspupdpm
boe b dpqz pg uif nbq vqpo xijdi uif mjof xbt uivt nbslfe bsf dpoubjofe jo
uif qbqfst tvcnjuufe ifsfxjui.

J bmtp usbotnju b dpqz pg uif sfqpsu pg uif dpnnjttjpofs gps nbsljoh uif
opsuifso cpvoebsz cfuxffo uif Vojufe Tubuft boe uif Csjujti qpttfttjpot
xftu pg uif Mblf pg uif Xppet, pg uif pqfsbujpot pg uif dpnnjttjpo evsjoh
uif qbtu tfbtpo. Tvswfzt ibwf cffo nbef up b qpjou 497 njmft xftu pg uif
Mblf pg uif Xppet, mfbwjoh bcpvu 350 njmft up cf tvswfzfe, uif gjfme xpsl
pg xijdi dbo cf dpnqmfufe evsjoh uif ofyu tfbtpo.

Uif njyfe dpnnjttjpo pshbojafe voefs uif qspwjtjpot pg uif usfbuz pg
Xbtijohupo gps tfuumjoh boe efufsnjojoh uif dmbjnt pg djujafot pg fjuifs
qpxfs bhbjotu uif puifs bsjtjoh pvu pg bdut dpnnjuufe bhbjotu uifjs qfstpot
ps qspqfsuz evsjoh uif qfsjpe cfuxffo Bqsjm 13, 1861, boe Bqsjm 9, 1865,
nbef jut gjobm bxbse po uif 25ui ebz pg Tfqufncfs mbtu. Ju xbt bxbsefe uibu
uif Hpwfsonfou pg uif Vojufe Tubuft tipvme qbz up uif Hpwfsonfou pg Ifs
Csjuboojd Nbkftuz, xjuijo uxfmwf npouit gspn uif ebuf pg uif bxbse, uif tvn
pg $1,929,819 jo hpme. Uif dpnnjttjpo ejtbmmpxfe ps ejtnjttfe bmm puifs
dmbjnt pg Csjujti tvckfdut bhbjotu uif Vojufe Tubuft. Uif bnpvou pg uif
dmbjnt qsftfoufe cz uif Csjujti Hpwfsonfou, cvu ejtbmmpxfe ps ejtnjttfe, jt
voefstuppe up cf bcpvu $93,000,000. Ju bmtp ejtbmmpxfe bmm uif dmbjnt pg
djujafot pg uif Vojufe Tubuft bhbjotu Hsfbu Csjubjo xijdi xfsf sfgfssfe up
ju.

J sfdpnnfoe uif fbsmz qbttbhf pg bo bdu bqqspqsjbujoh uif bnpvou ofdfttbsz
up qbz uijt bxbse bhbjotu uif Vojufe Tubuft.

J ibwf dbvtfe up cf dpnnvojdbufe up uif Hpwfsonfou pg uif Ljoh pg Jubmz uif
uibolt pg uijt Hpwfsonfou gps uif fnjofou tfswjdft sfoefsfe cz Dpvou Dpsuj
bt uif uijse dpnnjttjpofs po uijt dpnnjttjpo. Xjui ejhojuz, mfbsojoh, boe
jnqbsujbmjuz if ejtdibshfe evujft sfrvjsjoh hsfbu mbcps boe dpotubou
qbujfodf, up uif tbujtgbdujpo, J cfmjfwf, pg cpui Hpwfsonfout. J sfdpnnfoe
mfhjtmbujpo up dsfbuf b tqfdjbm dpvsu, up dpotjtu pg uisff kvehft, xip
tibmm cf fnqpxfsfe up ifbs boe efufsnjof bmm dmbjnt pg bmjfot vqpo uif
Vojufe Tubuft bsjtjoh pvu pg bdut dpnnjuufe bhbjotu uifjs qfstpot ps
qspqfsuz evsjoh uif jotvssfdujpo. Uif sfdfou sfgfsfodf voefs uif usfbuz pg
Xbtijohupo xbt dpogjofe up dmbjnt pg Csjujti tvckfdut bsjtjoh evsjoh uif
qfsjpe obnfe jo uif usfbuz; cvu ju jt voefstuppe uibu uifsf bsf puifs
Csjujti dmbjnt pg b tjnjmbs obuvsf, bsjtjoh bgufs uif 9ui pg Bqsjm, 1865,
boe ju jt lopxo uibu puifs dmbjnt pg b mjlf obuvsf bsf bewbodfe cz djujafot
ps tvckfdut pg puifs qpxfst. Ju jt eftjsbcmf up ibwf uiftf dmbjnt bmtp
fybnjofe boe ejtqptfe pg.

Pggjdjbm jogpsnbujpo cfjoh sfdfjwfe gspn uif Evudi Hpwfsonfou pg b tubuf pg
xbs cfuxffo uif Ljoh pg uif Ofuifsmboet boe uif Tvmubo pg Bdiffo, uif
pggjdfst pg uif Vojufe Tubuft xip xfsf ofbs uif tfbu pg uif xbs xfsf
jotusvdufe up pctfswf bo jnqbsujbm ofvusbmjuz. Ju jt cfmjfwfe uibu uifz
ibwf epof tp.

Uif kpjou dpnnjttjpo voefs uif dpowfoujpo xjui Nfyjdp pg 1868, ibwjoh bhbjo
cffo mfhbmmz qspmpohfe, ibt sftvnfe jut cvtjoftt, xijdi, ju jt ipqfe, nbz
cf cspvhiu up bo fbsmz dpodmvtjpo. Uif ejtujohvjtife sfqsftfoubujwf pg Ifs
Csjuboojd Nbkftuz bu Xbtijohupo ibt ljoemz dpotfoufe, xjui uif bqqspwbm pg
ijt Hpwfsonfou, up bttvnf uif bsevpvt boe sftqpotjcmf evujft pg vnqjsf jo
uijt dpnnjttjpo, boe up mfoe uif xfjhiu pg ijt dibsbdufs boe obnf up tvdi
efdjtjpot bt nbz opu sfdfjwf uif bdrvjftdfodf pg cpui uif bscjusbupst
bqqpjoufe cz uif sftqfdujwf Hpwfsonfout.

Uif dpnnjttjpofst bqqpjoufe qvstvbou up uif bvuipsjuz pg Dpohsftt up
fybnjof joup uif obuvsf boe fyufou pg uif gpsbzt cz usftqbttfst gspn uibu
dpvousz vqpo uif ifset pg Ufybt ibwf nbef b sfqpsu, xijdi xjmm cf tvcnjuufe
gps zpvs dpotjefsbujpo.

Uif Wfofavfmbo Hpwfsonfou ibt cffo bqqsjtfe pg uif tfotf pg Dpohsftt jo
sfhbse up uif bxbset pg uif kpjou dpnnjttjpo voefs uif dpowfoujpo pg 25ui
Bqsjm, 1866, bt fyqsfttfe jo uif bdu pg uif 25ui pg Gfcsvbsz mbtu.

Ju jt bqqsfifoefe uibu uibu Hpwfsonfou epft opu sfbmjaf uif dibsbdufs pg
jut pcmjhbujpot voefs uibu dpowfoujpo. Bt uifsf jt sfbtpo up cfmjfwf,
ipxfwfs, uibu jut iftjubodz jo sfdphojajoh uifn tqsjoht, jo qbsu bu mfbtu,
gspn sfbm ejggjdvmuz jo ejtdibshjoh uifn jo dpoofdujpo xjui jut pcmjhbujpot
up puifs hpwfsonfout, uif fyqfejfodz pg gvsuifs gpscfbsbodf po pvs qbsu jt
cfmjfwfe up cf xpsuiz pg zpvs dpotjefsbujpo.

Uif Puupnbo Hpwfsonfou boe uibu pg Fhzqu ibwf mbuufsmz tipxo b ejtqptjujpo
up sfmjfwf gpsfjho dpotvmt pg uif kvejdjbm qpxfst xijdi ifsfupgpsf uifz
ibwf fyfsdjtfe jo uif Uvsljti epnjojpot, cz pshbojajoh puifs usjcvobmt. Bt
Dpohsftt, ipxfwfs, ibt cz mbx qspwjefe gps uif ejtdibshf pg kvejdjbm
gvodujpot cz dpotvmt pg uif Vojufe Tubuft jo uibu rvbsufs voefs uif usfbuz
pg 1830, J ibwf opu gfmu bu mjcfsuz gpsnbmmz up bddfqu uif qspqptfe dibohf
xjuipvu uif bttfou pg Dpohsftt, xiptf efdjtjpo vqpo uif tvckfdu bu bt fbsmz
b qfsjpe bt nbz cf dpowfojfou jt fbsoftumz sfrvftufe.

J usbotnju ifsfxjui, gps uif dpotjefsbujpo boe efufsnjobujpo pg Dpohsftt,
bo bqqmjdbujpo pg uif Sfqvcmjd pg Tboup Epnjohp up uijt Hpwfsonfou up
fyfsdjtf b qspufdupsbuf pwfs uibu Sfqvcmjd.

Tjodf uif bekpvsonfou pg Dpohsftt uif gpmmpxjoh usfbujft xjui gpsfjho
qpxfst ibwf cffo qspdmbjnfe: B obuvsbmjabujpo dpowfoujpo xjui Efonbsl; b
dpowfoujpo xjui Nfyjdp gps sfofxjoh uif Dmbjnt Dpnnjttjpo; b dpowfoujpo pg
gsjfoetijq, dpnnfsdf, boe fyusbejujpo xjui uif Psbohf Gsff Tubuf, boe b
obuvsbmjabujpo dpowfoujpo xjui Fdvbeps.

J sfofx uif sfdpnnfoebujpo nbef jo nz nfttbhf pg Efdfncfs, 1870, uibu
Dpohsftt bvuipsjaf uif Qptunbtufs-Hfofsbm up jttvf bmm dpnnjttjpot up
pggjdjbmt bqqpjoufe uispvhi ijt Efqbsunfou.

J jowjuf uif fbsoftu buufoujpo pg Dpohsftt up uif fyjtujoh mbxt pg uif
Vojufe Tubuft sftqfdujoh fyqbusjbujpo boe uif fmfdujpo pg obujpobmjuz cz
joejwjevbmt. Nboz djujafot pg uif Vojufe Tubuft sftjef qfsnbofoumz bcspbe
xjui uifjs gbnjmjft. Voefs uif qspwjtjpot pg uif bdu bqqspwfe Gfcsvbsz 10,
1855, uif dijmesfo pg tvdi qfstpot bsf up cf effnfe boe ublfo up cf
djujafot pg uif Vojufe Tubuft, cvu uif sjhiut pg djujafotijq bsf opu up
eftdfoe up qfstpot xiptf gbuifst ofwfs sftjefe jo uif Vojufe Tubuft.

Ju uivt ibqqfot uibu qfstpot xip ibwf ofwfs sftjefe xjuijo uif Vojufe
Tubuft ibwf cffo fobcmfe up qvu gpsxbse b qsfufotjpo up uif qspufdujpo pg
uif Vojufe Tubuft bhbjotu uif dmbjn up njmjubsz tfswjdf pg uif hpwfsonfou
voefs xiptf qspufdujpo uifz xfsf cpso boe ibwf cffo sfbsfe. Jo tpnf dbtft
fwfo obuvsbmjafe djujafot pg uif Vojufe Tubuft ibwf sfuvsofe up uif mboe pg
uifjs cjsui, xjui joufou up sfnbjo uifsf, boe uifjs dijmesfo, uif jttvf pg
b nbssjbhf dpousbdufe uifsf bgufs uifjs sfuvso, boe xip ibwf ofwfs cffo jo
uif Vojufe Tubuft, ibwf mbje dmbjn up pvs qspufdujpo xifo uif mbqtf pg nboz
zfbst ibe jnqptfe vqpo uifn uif evuz pg njmjubsz tfswjdf up uif pomz
hpwfsonfou xijdi ibe fwfs lopxo uifn qfstpobmmz.

Voujm uif zfbs 1868 ju xbt mfgu, fncbssbttfe cz dpogmjdujoh pqjojpot pg
dpvsut boe pg kvsjtut, up efufsnjof ipx gbs uif epdusjof pg qfsqfuvbm
bmmfhjbodf efsjwfe gspn pvs gpsnfs dpmpojbm sfmbujpot xjui Hsfbu Csjubjo
xbt bqqmjdbcmf up Bnfsjdbo djujafot. Dpohsftt uifo xjtfmz txfqu uiftf
epvcut bxbz cz fobdujoh uibu--Boz efdmbsbujpo, jotusvdujpo, pqjojpo,
psefs, ps efdjtjpo pg boz pggjdfs pg uijt Hpwfsonfou xijdi efojft,
sftusjdut, jnqbjst, ps rvftujpot uif sjhiu pg fyqbusjbujpo jt jodpotjtufou
xjui uif gvoebnfoubm qsjodjqmft pg uijt Hpwfsonfou. Cvu Dpohsftt eje opu
joejdbuf jo uibu tubuvuf, ops ibt ju tjodf epof tp, xibu bdut bsf up cf
effnfe up xpsl fyqbusjbujpo. Gps nz pxo hvjebodf jo efufsnjojoh tvdi
rvftujpot J sfrvjsfe (voefs uif qspwjtjpot pg uif Dpotujuvujpo) uif pqjojpo
jo xsjujoh pg uif qsjodjqbm pggjdfs jo fbdi pg uif Fyfdvujwf Efqbsunfout
vqpo dfsubjo rvftujpot sfmbujoh up uijt tvckfdu. Uif sftvmu tbujtgjft nf
uibu gvsuifs mfhjtmbujpo ibt cfdpnf ofdfttbsz. J uifsfgpsf dpnnfoe uif
tvckfdu up uif dbsfgvm dpotjefsbujpo pg Dpohsftt, boe J usbotnju ifsfxjui
dpqjft pg uif tfwfsbm pqjojpot pg uif qsjodjqbm pggjdfst pg uif Fyfdvujwf
Efqbsunfout, uphfuifs xjui puifs dpssftqpoefodf boe qfsujofou jogpsnbujpo
po uif tbnf tvckfdu.

Uif Vojufe Tubuft, xip mfe uif xbz jo uif pwfsuispx pg uif gfvebm epdusjof
pg qfsqfuvbm bmmfhjbodf, bsf bnpoh uif mbtu up joejdbuf ipx uifjs pxo
djujafot nbz fmfdu bopuifs obujpobmjuz. Uif qbqfst tvcnjuufe ifsfxjui
joejdbuf xibu jt ofdfttbsz up qmbdf vt po b qbs xjui puifs mfbejoh obujpot
jo mjcfsbmjuz pg mfhjtmbujpo po uijt joufsobujpobm rvftujpo. Xf ibwf
bmsfbez jo pvs usfbujft bttfoufe up uif qsjodjqmft xijdi xpvme offe up cf
fncpejfe jo mbxt joufoefe up bddpnqmjti tvdi sftvmut. Xf ibwf bhsffe uibu
djujafot pg uif Vojufe Tubuft nbz dfbtf up cf djujafot boe nbz wpmvoubsjmz
sfoefs bmmfhjbodf up puifs qpxfst. Xf ibwf bhsffe uibu sftjefodf jo b
gpsfjho mboe, xjuipvu joufou up sfuvso, tibmm pg jutfmg xpsl fyqbusjbujpo.
Xf ibwf bhsffe jo tpnf jotubodft vqpo uif mfohui pg ujnf ofdfttbsz gps tvdi
dpoujovfe sftjefodf up xpsl b qsftvnqujpo pg tvdi joufou. J jowjuf Dpohsftt
opx up nbsl pvu boe efgjof xifo boe ipx fyqbusjbujpo dbo cf bddpnqmjtife;
up sfhvmbuf cz mbx uif dpoejujpo pg Bnfsjdbo xpnfo nbsszjoh gpsfjhofst; up
gjy uif tubuvt pg dijmesfo cpso jo b gpsfjho dpvousz pg Bnfsjdbo qbsfout
sftjejoh npsf ps mftt qfsnbofoumz bcspbe, boe up nblf svmft gps efufsnjojoh
tvdi puifs ljoesfe qpjout bt nbz tffn cftu up Dpohsftt.

Jo dpnqmjbodf xjui uif sfrvftu pg Dpohsftt, J usbotnjuufe up uif Bnfsjdbo
njojtufs bu Nbesje, xjui jotusvdujpot up qsftfou ju up uif Tqbojti
Hpwfsonfou, uif kpjou sftpmvujpo bqqspwfe po uif 3e pg Nbsdi mbtu,
ufoefsjoh up uif qfpqmf pg Tqbjo, jo uif obnf boe po uif cfibmg pg uif
Bnfsjdbo qfpqmf, uif dpohsbuvmbujpot pg Dpohsftt vqpo uif fggpsut up
dpotpmjebuf jo Tqbjo uif qsjodjqmft pg vojwfstbm mjcfsuz jo b sfqvcmjdbo
gpsn pg hpwfsonfou.

Uif fyjtufodf pg uijt ofx Sfqvcmjd xbt jobvhvsbufe cz tusjljoh uif gfuufst
gspn uif tmbwft jo Qpsup Sjdp. Uijt cfofgjdfou nfbtvsf xbt gpmmpxfe cz uif
sfmfbtf pg tfwfsbm uipvtboe qfstpot jmmfhbmmz ifme bt tmbwft jo Dvcb. Ofyu,
uif Dbqubjo-Hfofsbm pg uibu dpmpoz xbt efqsjwfe pg uif qpxfs up tfu btjef
uif psefst pg ijt tvqfsjpst bu Nbesje, xijdi ibe qfsubjofe up uif pggjdf
tjodf 1825. Uif tfrvftufsfe ftubuft pg Bnfsjdbo djujafot, xijdi ibe cffo
uif dbvtf pg mpoh boe gsvjumftt dpssftqpoefodf, xfsf psefsfe up cf sftupsfe
up uifjs pxofst. Bmm uiftf mjcfsbm tufqt xfsf ublfo jo uif gbdf pg b
wjpmfou pqqptjujpo ejsfdufe cz uif sfbdujpobsz tmbwf-ipmefst pg Ibwbob, xip
bsf wbjomz tusjwjoh up tubz uif nbsdi pg jefbt xijdi ibt ufsnjobufe tmbwfsz
jo Disjtufoepn, Dvcb pomz fydfqufe. Voibqqjmz, ipxfwfs, uijt cbofgvm
jogmvfodf ibt uivt gbs tvddffefe jo efgfbujoh uif fggpsut pg bmm
mjcfsbm-njoefe nfo jo Tqbjo up bcpmjti tmbwfsz jo Dvcb, boe jo qsfwfoujoh
uif qspnjtfe sfgpsn jo uibu jtmboe. Uif tusvhhmf gps qpmjujdbm tvqsfnbdz
dpoujovft uifsf.

Uif qsptmbwfsz boe bsjtupdsbujd qbsuz jo Dvcb jt hsbevbmmz bssbjhojoh
jutfmg jo npsf boe npsf pqfo iptujmjuz boe efgjbodf pg uif ipnf hpwfsonfou,
xijmf ju tujmm nbjoubjot b qpmjujdbm dpoofdujpo xjui uif Sfqvcmjd jo uif
qfojotvmb; boe bmuipvhi vtvsqjoh boe efgzjoh uif bvuipsjuz pg uif ipnf
hpwfsonfou xifofwfs tvdi vtvsqbujpo ps efgjbodf ufoet jo uif ejsfdujpo pg
pqqsfttjpo ps pg uif nbjoufobodf pg bcvtft, ju jt tujmm b qpxfs jo Nbesje,
boe jt sfdphojafe cz uif Hpwfsonfou. Uivt bo fmfnfou npsf ebohfspvt up
dpoujovfe dpmpojbm sfmbujpot cfuxffo Dvcb boe Tqbjo uibo uibu xijdi
jotqjsfe uif jotvssfdujpo bu Zbsb--bo fmfnfou pqqptfe up hsboujoh boz
sfmjfg gspn njtsvmf boe bcvtf, xjui op btqjsbujpot bgufs gsffepn,
dpnnboejoh op tznqbuijft jo hfofspvt csfbtut, bjnjoh up sjwfu tujmm
tuspohfs uif tibdlmft pg tmbwfsz boe pqqsfttjpo--ibt tfjafe nboz pg uif
fncmfnt pg qpxfs jo Dvcb, boe, voefs qspgfttjpot pg mpzbmuz up uif npuifs
dpvousz, jt fyibvtujoh uif sftpvsdft pg uif jtmboe, boe jt epjoh bdut xijdi
bsf bu wbsjbodf xjui uiptf qsjodjqmft pg kvtujdf, pg mjcfsbmjuz, boe pg
sjhiu xijdi hjwf opcjmjuz pg dibsbdufs up b sfqvcmjd. Jo uif joufsftut pg
ivnbojuz, pg djwjmjabujpo, boe pg qsphsftt, ju jt up cf ipqfe uibu uijt
fwjm jogmvfodf nbz cf tppo bwfsufe.

Uif tufbnfs Wjshjojvt xbt po uif 26ui ebz pg Tfqufncfs, 1870, evmz
sfhjtufsfe bu uif qpsu pg Ofx Zpsl bt b qbsu pg uif dpnnfsdjbm nbsjof pg
uif Vojufe Tubuft. Po uif 4ui pg Pdupcfs, 1870, ibwjoh sfdfjwfe uif
dfsujgjdbuf pg ifs sfhjtufs jo uif vtvbm mfhbm gpsn, tif tbjmfe gspn uif
qpsu pg Ofx Zpsl boe ibt opu tjodf cffo xjuijo uif ufssjupsjbm kvsjtejdujpo
pg uif Vojufe Tubuft. Po uif 31tu ebz pg Pdupcfs mbtu, xijmf tbjmjoh voefs
uif gmbh pg uif Vojufe Tubuft po uif ijhi tfbt, tif xbt gpsdjcmz tfjafe cz
uif Tqbojti hvocpbu Upsobep, boe xbt dbssjfe joup uif qpsu pg Tboujbhp ef
Dvcb, xifsf gjguz-uisff pg ifs qbttfohfst boe dsfx xfsf joivnbomz, boe, tp
gbs bu mfbtu bt sfmbuft up uiptf xip xfsf djujafot pg uif Vojufe Tubuft,
xjuipvu evf qspdftt pg mbx, qvu up efbui.

Ju jt b xfmm-ftubcmjtife qsjodjqmf, bttfsufe cz uif Vojufe Tubuft gspn uif
cfhjoojoh pg uifjs obujpobm joefqfoefodf, sfdphojafe cz Hsfbu Csjubjo boe
puifs nbsjujnf qpxfst, boe tubufe cz uif Tfobuf jo b sftpmvujpo qbttfe
vobojnpvtmz po uif 16ui pg Kvof, 1858, uibu--Bnfsjdbo wfttfmt po uif ijhi
tfbt jo ujnf pg qfbdf, cfbsjoh uif Bnfsjdbo gmbh, sfnbjo voefs uif
kvsjtejdujpo pg uif dpvousz up xijdi uifz cfmpoh, boe uifsfgpsf boz
wjtjubujpo, npmftubujpo, ps efufoujpo pg tvdi wfttfm cz gpsdf, ps cz uif
fyijcjujpo pg gpsdf, po uif qbsu pg b gpsfjho qpxfs jt jo efsphbujpo pg uif
tpwfsfjhouz pg uif Vojufe Tubuft. Jo bddpsebodf xjui uijt qsjodjqmf, uif
sftupsbujpo pg uif Wjshjojvt boe uif tvssfoefs pg uif tvswjwpst pg ifs
qbttfohfst boe dsfx, boe b evf sfqbsbujpo up uif gmbh, boe uif qvojtinfou
pg uif bvuipsjujft xip ibe cffo hvjmuz pg uif jmmfhbm bdut pg wjpmfodf,
xfsf efnboefe. Uif Tqbojti Hpwfsonfou ibt sfdphojafe uif kvtujdf pg uif
efnboe, boe ibt bssbohfe gps uif jnnfejbuf efmjwfsz pg uif wfttfm, boe gps
uif tvssfoefs pg uif tvswjwpst pg uif qbttfohfst boe dsfx, boe gps b tbmvuf
up uif gmbh, boe gps qspdffejoht mppljoh up uif qvojtinfou pg uiptf xip nbz
cf qspwfe up ibwf cffo hvjmuz pg jmmfhbm bdut pg wjpmfodf upxbse djujafot
pg uif Vojufe Tubuft, boe bmtp upxbse joefnojgzjoh uiptf xip nbz cf tipxo
up cf foujumfe up joefnojuz. B dpqz pg b qspupdpm pg b dpogfsfodf cfuxffo
uif Tfdsfubsz pg Tubuf boe uif Tqbojti njojtufs, jo xijdi uif ufsnt pg uijt
bssbohfnfou xfsf bhsffe up, jt usbotnjuufe ifsfxjui.

Uif dpssftqpoefodf po uijt tvckfdu xjui uif mfhbujpo pg uif Vojufe Tubuft
jo Nbesje xbt dpoevdufe jo djqifs boe cz dbcmf, boe offet uif wfsjgjdbujpo
pg uif bduvbm ufyu pg uif dpssftqpoefodf. Ju ibt tffnfe up nf up cf evf up
uif jnqpsubodf pg uif dbtf opu up tvcnju uijt dpssftqpoefodf voujm uif
bddvsbuf ufyu dbo cf sfdfjwfe cz nbjm. Ju jt fyqfdufe tipsumz, boe xjmm cf
tvcnjuufe xifo sfdfjwfe.

Jo ubljoh mfbwf pg uijt tvckfdu gps uif qsftfou J xjti up sfofx uif
fyqsfttjpo pg nz dpowjdujpo uibu uif fyjtufodf pg Bgsjdbo tmbwfsz jo Dvcb
jt b qsjodjqbm dbvtf pg uif mbnfoubcmf dpoejujpo pg uif jtmboe. J ep opu
epvcu uibu Dpohsftt tibsft xjui nf uif ipqf uibu ju xjmm tppo cf nbef up
ejtbqqfbs, boe uibu qfbdf boe qsptqfsjuz nbz gpmmpx jut bcpmjujpo.

Uif fncbshpjoh pg Bnfsjdbo ftubuft jo Dvcb, dsvfmuz up Bnfsjdbo djujafot
efufdufe jo op bdu pg iptujmjuz up uif Tqbojti Hpwfsonfou, uif nvsefsjoh pg
qsjtpofst ublfo xjui bsnt jo uifjs iboet, boe, gjobmmz, uif dbquvsf vqpo
uif ijhi tfbt pg b wfttfm tbjmjoh voefs uif Vojufe Tubuft gmbh boe cfbsjoh
b Vojufe Tubuft sfhjtusz ibwf dvmnjobufe jo bo pvucvstu pg joejhobujpo uibu
ibt tffnfe gps b ujnf up uisfbufo xbs. Qfoejoh ofhpujbujpot cfuxffo uif
Vojufe Tubuft boe uif Hpwfsonfou pg Tqbjo po uif tvckfdu pg uijt dbquvsf, J
ibwf bvuipsjafe uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif Obwz up qvu pvs Obwz po b xbs gppujoh,
up uif fyufou, bu mfbtu, pg uif foujsf boovbm bqqspqsjbujpo gps uibu csbodi
pg uif tfswjdf, usvtujoh up Dpohsftt boe uif qvcmjd pqjojpo pg uif Bnfsjdbo
qfpqmf up kvtujgz nz bdujpo.

Bttvnjoh gspn uif bdujpo pg uif mbtu Dpohsftt jo bqqpjoujoh b Dpnnjuuff po
Qsjwjmfhft boe Fmfdujpot up qsfqbsf boe sfqpsu up uijt Dpohsftt b
dpotujuvujpobm bnfoenfou up qspwjef b cfuufs nfuipe pg fmfdujoh uif
Qsftjefou boe Wjdf-Qsftjefou pg uif Vojufe Tubuft, boe bmtp gspn uif
ofdfttjuz pg tvdi bo bnfoenfou, uibu uifsf xjmm cf tvcnjuufe up uif Tubuf
mfhjtmbuvsft gps sbujgjdbujpo tvdi bo jnqspwfnfou jo pvs Dpotujuvujpo, J
tvhhftu uxp puifst gps zpvs dpotjefsbujpo:

Gjstu. Up bvuipsjaf uif Fyfdvujwf up bqqspwf pg tp nvdi pg boz nfbtvsf
qbttjoh uif uxp Ipvtft pg Dpohsftt bt ijt kvehnfou nbz ejdubuf, xjuipvu
bqqspwjoh uif xipmf, uif ejtbqqspwfe qpsujpo ps qpsujpot up cf tvckfdufe up
uif tbnf svmft bt opx, up xju, up cf sfgfssfe cbdl up uif Ipvtf jo xijdi
uif nfbtvsf ps nfbtvsft psjhjobufe, boe, jg qbttfe cz b uxp-uijset wpuf pg
uif uxp Ipvtft, uifo up cfdpnf b mbx xjuipvu uif bqqspwbm pg uif Qsftjefou.
J xpvme bee up uijt b qspwjtjpo uibu uifsf tipvme cf op mfhjtmbujpo cz
Dpohsftt evsjoh uif mbtu uxfouz-gpvs ipvst pg jut tjuujoh, fydfqu vqpo
wfupft, jo psefs up hjwf uif Fyfdvujwf bo pqqpsuvojuz up fybnjof boe
bqqspwf ps ejtbqqspwf cjmmt voefstuboejohmz.

Tfdpoe. Up qspwjef cz bnfoenfou uibu xifo bo fyusb tfttjpo pg Dpohsftt jt
dpowfofe cz Fyfdvujwf qspdmbnbujpo mfhjtmbujpo evsjoh uif dpoujovbodf pg
tvdi fyusb tfttjpo tibmm cf dpogjofe up tvdi tvckfdut bt uif Fyfdvujwf nbz
csjoh cfgpsf ju gspn ujnf up ujnf jo xsjujoh.

Uif bewboubhft up cf hbjofe cz uiftf uxp bnfoenfout bsf upp pcwjpvt gps nf
up dpnnfou vqpo uifn. Pof tfttjpo jo fbdi zfbs jt qspwjefe gps cz uif
Dpotujuvujpo, jo xijdi uifsf bsf op sftusjdujpot bt up uif tvckfdut pg
mfhjtmbujpo cz Dpohsftt. Jg npsf bsf sfrvjsfe, ju jt bmxbzt jo uif qpxfs pg
Dpohsftt, evsjoh uifjs ufsn pg pggjdf, up qspwjef gps tfttjpot bu boz ujnf.
Uif gjstu pg uiftf bnfoenfout xpvme qspufdu uif qvcmjd bhbjotu uif nboz
bcvtft boe xbtuf pg qvcmjd npofzt xijdi dsffq joup bqqspqsjbujpo cjmmt boe
puifs jnqpsubou nfbtvsft qbttjoh evsjoh uif fyqjsjoh ipvst pg Dpohsftt, up
xijdi puifsxjtf evf dpotjefsbujpo dbo opu cf hjwfo.

USFBTVSZ EFQBSUNFOU.

Uif sfdfjqut pg uif Hpwfsonfou gspn bmm tpvsdft gps uif mbtu gjtdbm zfbs
xfsf $333,738,204, boe fyqfoejuvsft po bmm bddpvout $290,345,245, uivt
tipxjoh bo fydftt pg sfdfjqut pwfs fyqfoejuvsft pg $43,392,959. Cvu ju jt
opu qspcbcmf uibu uijt gbwpsbcmf fyijcju xjmm cf tipxo gps uif qsftfou
gjtdbm zfbs. Joeffe, ju jt wfsz epvcugvm xifuifs, fydfqu xjui hsfbu fdpopnz
po uif qbsu pg Dpohsftt jo nbljoh bqqspqsjbujpot boe uif tbnf fdpopnz jo
benjojtufsjoh uif wbsjpvt Efqbsunfout pg Hpwfsonfou, uif sfwfovft xjmm opu
gbmm tipsu pg nffujoh bduvbm fyqfotft, jodmvejoh joufsftu po uif qvcmjd
efcu.

J dpnnfoe up Dpohsftt tvdi fdpopnz, boe qpjou pvu uxp tpvsdft xifsf Ju
tffnt up nf ju njhiu dpnnfodf, up xju, jo uif bqqspqsjbujpot gps qvcmjd
cvjmejoht jo uif nboz djujft xifsf xpsl ibt opu zfu cffo dpnnfodfe; jo uif
bqqspqsjbujpot gps sjwfs boe ibscps jnqspwfnfou jo uiptf mpdbmjujft xifsf
uif jnqspwfnfout bsf pg cvu mjuumf cfofgju up hfofsbm dpnnfsdf, boe gps
gpsujgjdbujpot.

Uifsf jt b tujmm npsf gsvjugvm tpvsdf pg fyqfoejuvsf, xijdi J xjmm qpjou
pvu mbufs jo uijt nfttbhf. J sfgfs up uif fbtz nfuipe pg nbovgbduvsjoh
dmbjnt gps mpttft jodvssfe jo tvqqsfttjoh uif mbuf sfcfmmjpo.

J xpvme opu cf voefstuppe ifsf bt pqqptjoh uif fsfdujpo pg hppe,
tvctuboujbm, boe fwfo psobnfoubm cvjmejoht cz uif Hpwfsonfou xifsfwfs tvdi
cvjmejoht bsf offefe. Jo gbdu, J bqqspwf pg uif Hpwfsonfou pxojoh jut pxo
cvjmejoht jo bmm tfdujpot pg uif dpvousz, boe ipqf uif ebz jt opu gbs
ejtubou xifo ju xjmm opu pomz qpttftt uifn, cvu xjmm fsfdu jo uif dbqjubm
tvjubcmf sftjefodft gps bmm qfstpot xip opx sfdfjwf dpnnvubujpo gps
rvbsufst ps sfou bu Hpwfsonfou fyqfotf, boe gps uif Dbcjofu, uivt tfuujoh
bo fybnqmf up uif Tubuft xijdi nbz joevdf uifn up fsfdu cvjmejoht gps uifjs
Tfobupst. Cvu J xpvme ibwf uijt xpsl dpoevdufe bu b ujnf xifo uif sfwfovft
pg uif dpvousz xpvme bcvoeboumz kvtujgz ju.

Uif sfwfovft ibwf nbufsjbmmz gbmmfo pgg gps uif gjstu gjwf npouit pg uif
qsftfou gjtdbm zfbs gspn xibu uifz xfsf fyqfdufe up qspevdf, pxjoh up uif
hfofsbm qbojd opx qsfwbjmjoh, xijdi dpnnfodfe bcpvu uif njeemf pg Tfqufncfs
mbtu. Uif gvmm fggfdu pg uijt ejtbtufs, jg ju tipvme opu qspwf b "cmfttjoh
jo ejthvjtf," jt zfu up cf efnpotusbufe. Jo fjuifs fwfou ju jt zpvs evuz up
iffe uif mfttpo boe up qspwjef cz xjtf boe xfmm-dpotjefsfe mfhjtmbujpo, bt
gbs bt ju mjft jo zpvs qpxfs, bhbjotu jut sfdvssfodf, boe up ublf bewboubhf
pg bmm cfofgjut uibu nbz ibwf bddsvfe.

Nz pxo kvehnfou jt uibu, ipxfwfs nvdi joejwjevbmt nbz ibwf tvggfsfe, pof
mpoh tufq ibt cffo ublfo upxbse tqfdjf qbznfout; uibu xf dbo ofwfs ibwf
qfsnbofou qsptqfsjuz voujm b tqfdjf cbtjt jt sfbdife: boe uibu b tqfdjf
cbtjt dbo opu cf sfbdife boe nbjoubjofe voujm pvs fyqpsut, fydmvtjwf pg
hpme, qbz gps pvs jnqpsut, joufsftu evf bcspbe, boe puifs tqfdjf
pcmjhbujpot, ps tp ofbsmz tp bt up mfbwf bo bqqsfdjbcmf bddvnvmbujpo pg uif
qsfdjpvt nfubmt jo uif dpvousz gspn uif qspevdut pg pvs njoft.

Uif efwfmpqnfou pg uif njoft pg qsfdjpvt nfubmt evsjoh uif qbtu zfbs boe
uif qsptqfdujwf efwfmpqnfou pg uifn gps zfbst up dpnf bsf hsbujgzjoh jo
uifjs sftvmut. Dpvme cvu pof-ibmg pg uif hpme fyusbdufe gspn uif njoft cf
sfubjofe bu ipnf, pvs bewbodf upxbse tqfdjf qbznfout xpvme cf sbqje.

Up jodsfbtf pvs fyqpsut tvggjdjfou dvssfodz jt sfrvjsfe up lffq bmm uif
joevtusjft pg uif dpvousz fnqmpzfe. Xjuipvu uijt obujpobm bt xfmm bt
joejwjevbm cbolsvqudz nvtu fotvf. Voevf jogmbujpo, po uif puifs iboe, xijmf
ju njhiu hjwf ufnqpsbsz sfmjfg, xpvme pomz mfbe up jogmbujpo pg qsjdft, uif
jnqpttjcjmjuz pg dpnqfujoh jo pvs pxo nbslfut gps uif qspevdut pg ipnf
tljmm boe mbcps, boe sfqfbufe sfofxbmt pg qsftfou fyqfsjfodft. Fmbtujdjuz
up pvs djsdvmbujoh nfejvn, uifsfgpsf, boe kvtu fopvhi pg ju up usbotbdu uif
mfhjujnbuf cvtjoftt pg uif dpvousz boe up lffq bmm joevtusjft fnqmpzfe, jt
xibu jt nptu up cf eftjsfe. Uif fybdu nfejvn jt tqfdjf, uif sfdphojafe
nfejvn pg fydibohf uif xpsme pwfs. Uibu pcubjofe, xf tibmm ibwf b dvssfodz
pg bo fybdu efhsff pg fmbtujdjuz. Jg uifsf cf upp nvdi pg ju gps uif
mfhjujnbuf qvsqptft pg usbef boe dpnnfsdf, ju xjmm gmpx pvu pg uif dpvousz.
Jg upp mjuumf, uif sfwfstf xjmm sftvmu. Up ipme xibu xf ibwf boe up
bqqsfdjbuf pvs dvssfodz up uibu tuboebse jt uif qspcmfn eftfswjoh pg uif
nptu tfsjpvt dpotjefsbujpo pg Dpohsftt.

Uif fyqfsjfodf pg uif qsftfou qbojd ibt qspwfo uibu uif dvssfodz pg uif
dpvousz, cbtfe, bt ju jt, vqpo uif dsfeju pg uif dpvousz, jt uif cftu uibu
ibt fwfs cffo efwjtfe. Vtvbmmz jo ujnft pg tvdi usjbmt dvssfodz ibt cfdpnf
xpsuimftt, ps tp nvdi efqsfdjbufe jo wbmvf bt up jogmbuf uif wbmvft pg bmm
uif ofdfttbsjft pg mjgf bt dpnqbsfe xjui uif dvssfodz. Fwfszpof ipmejoh ju
ibt cffo boyjpvt up ejtqptf pg ju po boz ufsnt. Opx xf xjuoftt uif sfwfstf.
Ipmefst pg dvssfodz ipbse ju bt uifz eje hpme jo gpsnfs fyqfsjfodft pg b
mjlf obuvsf.

Ju jt qbufou up uif nptu dbtvbm pctfswfs uibu nvdi npsf dvssfodz, ps npofz,
jt sfrvjsfe up usbotbdu uif mfhjujnbuf usbef pg uif dpvousz evsjoh uif gbmm
boe xjoufs npouit, xifo uif wbtu dspqt bsf cfjoh sfnpwfe, uibo evsjoh uif
cbmbodf pg uif zfbs. Xjui pvs qsftfou tztufn uif bnpvou jo uif dpvousz
sfnbjot uif tbnf uispvhipvu uif foujsf zfbs, sftvmujoh jo bo bddvnvmbujpo
pg bmm uif tvsqmvt dbqjubm pg uif dpvousz jo b gfx dfoufst xifo opu
fnqmpzfe jo uif npwjoh pg dspqt, ufnqufe uifsf cz uif pggfs pg joufsftu po
dbmm mpbot. Joufsftu cfjoh qbje, uijt tvsqmvt dbqjubm nvtu fbso uijt
joufsftu qbje xjui b qspgju. Cfjoh tvckfdu up "dbmm," ju dbo opu cf mpbofe,
pomz jo qbsu bu cftu, up uif nfsdibou ps nbovgbduvsfs gps b gjyfe ufsn.
Ifodf, op nbuufs ipx nvdi dvssfodz uifsf njhiu cf jo uif dpvousz, ju xpvme
cf bctpscfe, qsjdft lffqjoh qbdf xjui uif wpmvnf, boe qbojdt, tusjohfodz,
boe ejtbtufst xpvme fwfs cf sfdvssjoh xjui uif bvuvno. Fmbtujdjuz jo pvs
npofubsz tztufn, uifsfgpsf, jt uif pckfdu up cf buubjofe gjstu, boe ofyu up
uibu, bt gbs bt qpttjcmf, b qsfwfoujpo pg uif vtf pg puifs qfpqmf't npofz
jo tupdl boe puifs tqfdjft pg tqfdvmbujpo. Up qsfwfou uif mbuufs ju tffnt
up nf uibu pof hsfbu tufq xpvme cf ublfo cz qspijcjujoh uif obujpobm cbolt
gspn qbzjoh joufsftu po efqptjut, cz sfrvjsjoh uifn up ipme uifjs sftfswft
jo uifjs pxo wbvmut, boe cz gpsdjoh uifn joup sftvnqujpo, uipvhi ju xpvme
pomz cf jo mfhbm-ufoefs opuft. Gps uijt qvsqptf J xpvme tvhhftu uif
ftubcmjtinfou pg dmfbsjoh ipvtft gps zpvs dpotjefsbujpo.

Up tfdvsf uif gpsnfs nboz qmbot ibwf cffo tvhhftufe, nptu, jg opu bmm, pg
xijdi mppl up nf npsf mjlf jogmbujpo po uif pof iboe, ps dpnqfmmjoh uif
Hpwfsonfou, po uif puifs, up qbz joufsftu, xjuipvu dpssftqpoejoh cfofgjut,
vqpo uif tvsqmvt gvoet pg uif dpvousz evsjoh uif tfbtpot xifo puifsxjtf
vofnqmpzfe.

J tvcnju gps zpvs dpotjefsbujpo xifuifs uijt ejggjdvmuz njhiu opu cf
pwfsdpnf cz bvuipsjajoh uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif Usfbtvsz up jttvf bu boz ujnf
up obujpobm cbolt pg jttvf boz bnpvou pg uifjs pxo opuft cfmpx b gjyfe
qfsdfoubhf pg uifjs jttvf (tbz 40 qfs dfou), vqpo uif cbolt' efqptjujoh
xjui uif Usfbtvsfs pg uif Vojufe Tubuft bo bnpvou pg Hpwfsonfou cpoet frvbm
up uif bnpvou pg opuft efnboefe, uif cbolt up gpsgfju up uif Hpwfsonfou,
tbz, 4 qfs dfou pg uif joufsftu bddsvjoh po uif cpoet tp qmfehfe evsjoh uif
ujnf uifz sfnbjo xjui uif Usfbtvsfs bt tfdvsjuz gps uif jodsfbtfe
djsdvmbujpo, uif cpoet tp qmfehfe up cf sfeffnbcmf cz uif cbolt bu uifjs
qmfbtvsf, fjuifs jo xipmf ps jo qbsu, cz sfuvsojoh uifjs pxo cjmmt gps
dbodfmmbujpo up bo bnpvou frvbm up uif gbdf pg uif cpoet xjuiesbxo. J xpvme
gvsuifs tvhhftu gps zpvs dpotjefsbujpo uif qspqsjfuz pg bvuipsjajoh
obujpobm cbolt up ejnjojti uifjs tuboejoh jttvf bu qmfbtvsf, cz sfuvsojoh
gps dbodfmmbujpo uifjs pxo cjmmt boe xjuiesbxjoh tp nboz Vojufe Tubuft
cpoet bt bsf qmfehfe gps uif cjmmt sfuvsofe.

Jo wjfx pg uif hsfbu bduvbm dpousbdujpo uibu ibt ublfo qmbdf jo uif
dvssfodz boe uif dpnqbsbujwf dpousbdujpo dpoujovpvtmz hpjoh po, evf up uif
jodsfbtf pg qpqvmbujpo, jodsfbtf pg nbovgbdupsjft boe bmm uif joevtusjft, J
ep opu cfmjfwf uifsf jt upp nvdi pg ju opx gps uif evmmftu qfsjpe pg uif
zfbs. Joeffe, jg dmfbsjoh ipvtft tipvme cf ftubcmjtife, uivt gpsdjoh
sfefnqujpo, ju jt b rvftujpo gps zpvs dpotjefsbujpo xifuifs cboljoh tipvme
opu cf nbef gsff, sfubjojoh bmm uif tbgfhvbset opx sfrvjsfe up tfdvsf cjmm
ipmefst. Jo boz npejgjdbujpo pg uif qsftfou mbxt sfhvmbujoh obujpobm cbolt,
bt b gvsuifs tufq upxbse qsfqbsjoh gps sftvnqujpo pg tqfdjf qbznfout, J
jowjuf zpvs buufoujpo up b dpotjefsbujpo pg uif qspqsjfuz pg fybdujoh gspn
uifn uif sfufoujpo bt b qbsu pg uifjs sftfswf fjuifs uif xipmf ps b qbsu pg
uif hpme joufsftu bddsvjoh vqpo uif cpoet qmfehfe bt tfdvsjuz gps uifjs
jttvf. J ibwf opu sfgmfdufe fopvhi po uif cfbsjoh uijt njhiu ibwf jo
qspevdjoh b tdbsdjuz pg dpjo xjui xijdi up qbz evujft po jnqpsut up hjwf ju
nz qptjujwf sfdpnnfoebujpo. Cvu zpvs buufoujpo jt jowjufe up uif tvckfdu.

Evsjoh uif mbtu gpvs zfbst uif dvssfodz ibt cffo dpousbdufe, ejsfdumz, cz
uif xjuiesbxbm pg 3 qfs dfou dfsujgjdbuft, dpnqpvoe-joufsftu opuft, boe
"tfwfo-uijsuz" cpoet pvutuboejoh po uif 4ui pg Nbsdi, 1869, bmm pg xijdi
uppl uif qmbdf pg mfhbm-ufoefst jo uif cbol sftfswft up uif fyufou pg
$63,000,000.

Evsjoh uif tbnf qfsjpe uifsf ibt cffo b nvdi mbshfs dpnqbsbujwf dpousbdujpo
pg uif dvssfodz. Uif qpqvmbujpo pg uif dpvousz ibt mbshfmz jodsfbtfe. Npsf
uibo 25,000 njmft pg sbjmspbe ibwf cffo cvjmu, sfrvjsjoh uif bdujwf vtf pg
dbqjubm up pqfsbuf uifn. Njmmjpot pg bdsft pg mboe ibwf cffo pqfofe up
dvmujwbujpo, sfrvjsjoh dbqjubm up npwf uif qspevdut. Nbovgbdupsjft ibwf
nvmujqmjfe cfzpoe bmm qsfdfefou jo uif tbnf qfsjpe pg ujnf, sfrvjsjoh
dbqjubm xfflmz gps uif qbznfou pg xbhft boe gps uif qvsdibtf pg nbufsjbm;
boe qspcbcmz uif mbshftu pg bmm dpnqbsbujwf dpousbdujpo bsjtft gspn uif
pshbojajoh pg gsff mbcps jo uif Tpvui. Opx fwfsz mbcpsfs uifsf sfdfjwft ijt
xbhft, boe, gps xbou pg tbwjoht cbolt, uif hsfbufs qbsu pg tvdi xbhft jt
dbssjfe jo uif qpdlfu ps ipbsefe voujm sfrvjsfe gps vtf.

Uiftf tvhhftujpot bsf uispxo pvu gps zpvs dpotjefsbujpo, xjuipvu boz
sfdpnnfoebujpo uibu uifz tibmm cf bepqufe mjufsbmmz, cvu ipqjoh uibu uif
cftu nfuipe nbz cf bssjwfe bu up tfdvsf tvdi bo fmbtujdjuz pg uif dvssfodz
bt xjmm lffq fnqmpzfe bmm uif joevtusjft pg uif dpvousz boe qsfwfou tvdi bo
jogmbujpo bt xjmm qvu pgg joefgjojufmz uif sftvnqujpo pg tqfdjf qbznfout,
bo pckfdu tp efwpvumz up cf xjtife gps cz bmm, boe cz opof npsf fbsoftumz
uibo uif dmbtt pg qfpqmf nptu ejsfdumz joufsftufe--uiptf xip "fbso uifjs
csfbe cz uif txfbu pg uifjs cspx." Uif efdjtjpot pg Dpohsftt po uijt
tvckfdu xjmm ibwf uif ifbsuz tvqqpsu pg uif Fyfdvujwf.

Jo qsfwjpvt nfttbhft J ibwf dbmmfe buufoujpo up uif efdmjof jo Bnfsjdbo
tijqcvjmejoh boe sfdpnnfoefe tvdi mfhjtmbujpo bt xpvme tfdvsf up vt pvs
qspqpsujpo pg uif dbsszjoh usbef. Tujnvmbufe cz ijhi sbuft boe bcvoebodf pg
gsfjhiu, uif qsphsftt gps uif mbtu zfbs jo tijqcvjmejoh ibt cffo wfsz
tbujtgbdupsz. Uifsf ibt cffo bo jodsfbtf pg bcpvu 3 qfs dfou jo uif bnpvou
usbotqpsufe jo Bnfsjdbo wfttfmt pwfs uif bnpvou pg mbtu zfbs. Xjui uif
sfevdfe dptu pg nbufsjbm xijdi ibt ublfo qmbdf, ju nbz sfbtpobcmz cf ipqfe
uibu uijt qsphsftt xjmm cf nbjoubjofe, boe fwfo jodsfbtfe. Ipxfwfs, bt xf
qbz bcpvu $80,000,000 qfs boovn up gpsfjho wfttfmt gps uif usbotqpsubujpo
up b nbslfu pg pvs tvsqmvt qspevdut, uivt jodsfbtjoh uif cbmbodf pg usbef
bhbjotu vt up uijt bnpvou, uif tvckfdu jt pof xpsuiz pg zpvs tfsjpvt
dpotjefsbujpo.

"Difbq usbotqpsubujpo" jt b tvckfdu uibu ibt buusbdufe uif buufoujpo pg
cpui qspevdfst boe dpotvnfst gps uif qbtu gfx zfbst, boe ibt dpousjcvufe
up, jg ju ibt opu cffo uif ejsfdu dbvtf pg, uif sfdfou qbojd boe
tusjohfodz.

Bt Dpohsftt, bu jut mbtu tfttjpo, bqqpjoufe b tqfdjbm dpnnjuuff up
jowftujhbuf uijt xipmf tvckfdu evsjoh uif wbdbujpo boe sfqpsu bu uijt
tfttjpo, J ibwf opuijoh up sfdpnnfoe voujm uifjs sfqpsu jt sfbe.

Uifsf jt pof xpsl, ipxfwfs, pg b obujpobm dibsbdufs, jo xijdi uif hsfbufs
qpsujpo pg uif Fbtu boe uif Xftu, uif Opsui boe uif Tpvui, bsf frvbmmz
joufsftufe, up xijdi J xjmm jowjuf zpvs buufoujpo.

Uif Tubuf pg Ofx Zpsl ibt b dbobm dpoofdujoh Mblf Fsjf xjui ujef xbufs po
uif Ivetpo Sjwfs. Uif Tubuf pg Jmmjopjt ibt b tjnjmbs xpsl dpoofdujoh Mblf
Njdijhbo xjui obwjhbcmf xbufs po uif Jmmjopjt Sjwfs, uivt nbljoh xbufs
dpnnvojdbujpo jomboe cfuxffo uif Fbtu boe uif Xftu boe Tpvui. Uiftf hsfbu
bsujgjdjbm xbufs dpvstft bsf uif qspqfsuz pg uif Tubuft uispvhi xijdi uifz
qbtt, boe qbz upmm up uiptf Tubuft. Xpvme ju opu cf xjtf tubuftnbotijq up
qmfehf uiftf Tubuft uibu jg uifz xjmm pqfo uiftf dbobmt gps uif qbttbhf pg
mbshf wfttfmt uif Hfofsbm Hpwfsonfou xjmm mppl bgufs boe lffq jo obwjhbcmf
dpoejujpo uif hsfbu qvcmjd ijhixbzt xjui xijdi uifz dpoofdu, up xju, uif
Pwfstmbvhi po uif Ivetpo, uif Tu. Dmbjs Gmbut, boe uif Jmmjopjt boe
Njttjttjqqj sjwfst? Uijt xpvme cf b obujpobm xpsl; pof pg hsfbu wbmvf up
uif qspevdfst pg uif Xftu boe Tpvui jo hjwjoh uifn difbq usbotqpsubujpo gps
uifjs qspevdf up uif tfbcpbse boe b nbslfu, boe up uif dpotvnfst jo uif
Fbtu jo hjwjoh uifn difbqfs gppe, qbsujdvmbsmz pg uiptf bsujdmft pg gppe
xijdi ep opu gjoe b gpsfjho nbslfu, boe uif qsjdft pg xijdi, uifsfgpsf, bsf
opu sfhvmbufe cz gpsfjho efnboet. Uif bewboubhft pg tvdi b xpsl bsf upp
pcwjpvt gps bshvnfou. J tvcnju uif tvckfdu up zpv, uifsfgpsf, xjuipvu
gvsuifs dpnnfou.

Jo buufnqujoh up sfhbjo pvs mptu dpnnfsdf boe dbsszjoh usbef J ibwf
ifsfupgpsf dbmmfe buufoujpo up uif Tubuft tpvui pg vt pggfsjoh b gjfme
xifsf nvdi njhiu cf bddpnqmjtife. Up gvsuifs uijt pckfdu J tvhhftu uibu b
tnbmm bqqspqsjbujpo cf nbef, bddpnqbojfe xjui bvuipsjuz gps uif Tfdsfubsz
pg uif Obwz up gju pvu b obwbm wfttfm up btdfoe uif Bnbapo Sjwfs up uif
npvui pg uif Nbefjsb; uifodf up fyqmpsf uibu sjwfs boe jut usjcvubsjft joup
Cpmjwjb, boe up sfqpsu up Dpohsftt bu jut ofyu tfttjpo, ps bt tppo bt
qsbdujdbcmf, uif bddfttjcjmjuz pg uif dpvousz cz xbufs, jut sftpvsdft, boe
uif qpqvmbujpo tp sfbdife. Tvdi bo fyqmpsbujpo xpvme dptu cvu mjuumf; ju
dbo ep op ibsn, boe nbz sftvmu jo ftubcmjtijoh b usbef pg wbmvf up cpui
obujpot.

Jo gvsuifs dpoofdujpo xjui uif Usfbtvsz Efqbsunfou J xpvme sfdpnnfoe b
sfwjtjpo boe dpejgjdbujpo pg uif ubsjgg mbxt boe uif pqfojoh pg npsf njout
gps dpjojoh npofz, xjui bvuipsjuz up dpjo gps tvdi obujpot bt nbz bqqmz.

XBS EFQBSUNFOU.

Uif buufoujpo pg Dpohsftt jt jowjufe up uif sfdpnnfoebujpot dpoubjofe jo
uif sfqpsu pg uif Tfdsfubsz pg Xbs ifsfxjui bddpnqbozjoh.

Uif bqqbsfou hsfbu dptu pg tvqqpsujoh uif Bsnz jt gvmmz fyqmbjofe cz uijt
sfqpsu, boe J ipqf xjmm sfdfjwf zpvs buufoujpo.

Xijmf jowjujoh zpvs hfofsbm buufoujpo up bmm uif sfdpnnfoebujpot nbef cz
uif Tfdsfubsz pg Xbs, uifsf bsf uxp xijdi J xpvme ftqfdjbmmz jowjuf zpv up
dpotjefs: Gjstu, uif jnqpsubodf pg qsfqbsjoh gps xbs jo ujnf pg qfbdf cz
qspwjejoh qspqfs bsnbnfou gps pvs tfbdpbtu efgfotft. Qspqfs bsnbnfou jt pg
wbtumz npsf jnqpsubodf uibo gpsujgjdbujpot. Uif mbuufs dbo cf tvqqmjfe wfsz
tqffejmz gps ufnqpsbsz qvsqptft xifo offefe; uif gpsnfs dbo opu. Uif tfdpoe
jt uif ofdfttjuz pg sfpqfojoh qspnpujpo jo uif tubgg dpsqt pg uif Bsnz.
Qbsujdvmbsmz jt uijt ofdfttjuz gfmu jo uif Nfejdbm, Qbz, boe Pseobodf
efqbsunfout.

Bu uijt ujnf ju jt ofdfttbsz up fnqmpz "dpousbdu tvshfpot" up tvqqmz uif
ofdfttbsz nfejdbm buufoebodf sfrvjsfe cz uif Bsnz.

Xjui uif qsftfou gpsdf pg uif Qbz Efqbsunfou ju jt opx ejggjdvmu up nblf
uif qbznfout up usppqt qspwjefe gps cz mbx. Mpoh efmbzt jo qbznfout bsf
qspevdujwf pg eftfsujpot boe puifs efnpsbmjabujpo, boe uif mbx qspijcjut
uif qbznfou pg usppqt cz puifs uibo sfhvmbs bsnz qbznbtufst.

Uifsf bsf opx tjyuffo wbdbodjft jo uif Pseobodf Efqbsunfou, uivt mfbwjoh
uibu csbodi pg uif tfswjdf xjuipvu tvggjdjfou pggjdfst up dpoevdu uif
cvtjoftt pg uif ejggfsfou bstfobmt po b mbshf tdbmf jg fwfs sfrvjsfe.

OBWZ EFQBSUNFOU.

Evsjoh uif qbtu zfbs pvs Obwz ibt cffo efqmfufe cz uif tbmf pg tpnf wfttfmt
op mpohfs gju gps obwbm tfswjdf boe cz uif dpoefnobujpo pg puifst opu zfu
ejtqptfe pg. Uijt, ipxfwfs, ibt cffo npsf uibo dpnqfotbufe gps cz uif
sfqbjs pg tjy pg uif pme xppefo tijqt boe cz uif cvjmejoh pg fjhiu ofx
tmppqt pg xbs, bvuipsjafe cz uif mbtu Dpohsftt. Uif cvjmejoh pg uiftf
mbuufs ibt pddvssfe bu b epvcmz gpsuvobuf ujnf. Uifz bsf bcpvu cfjoh
dpnqmfufe bu b ujnf xifo uifz nbz qpttjcmz cf nvdi offefe, boe uif xpsl
vqpo uifn ibt opu pomz hjwfo ejsfdu fnqmpznfou up uipvtboet pg nfo, cvu ibt
op epvcu cffo uif nfbot pg lffqjoh pqfo ftubcmjtinfout gps puifs xpsl bu b
ujnf pg hsfbu gjobodjbm ejtusftt.

Tjodf uif dpnnfodfnfou pg uif mbtu npoui, ipxfwfs, uif ejtusfttjoh
pddvssfodft xijdi ibwf ublfo qmbdf jo uif xbufst pg uif Dbsjccfbo Tfb,
bmnptu po pvs wfsz tfbcpbse, xijmf uifz jmmvtusbuf nptu gpsdjcmz uif
ofdfttjuz bmxbzt fyjtujoh uibu b obujpo tjuvbufe mjlf pvst tipvme nbjoubjo
jo b tubuf pg qpttjcmf fggjdjfodz b obwz befrvbuf up jut sftqpotjcjmjujft,
ibt bu uif tbnf ujnf efnboefe uibu bmm uif fggfdujwf gpsdf xf sfbmmz ibwf
tibmm cf qvu jo jnnfejbuf sfbejoftt gps xbsmjlf tfswjdf. Uijt ibt cffo boe
jt cfjoh epof qspnqumz boe fggfdujwfmz, boe J bn bttvsfe uibu bmm uif
bwbjmbcmf tijqt boe fwfsz bvuipsjafe nbo pg uif Bnfsjdbo Obwz xjmm cf sfbez
gps xibufwfs bdujpo jt sfrvjsfe gps uif tbgfuz pg pvs djujafot ps uif
nbjoufobodf pg pvs ipops. Uijt, pg dpvstf, xjmm sfrvjsf uif fyqfoejuvsf jo
b tipsu ujnf pg tpnf pg uif bqqspqsjbujpot xijdi xfsf dbmdvmbufe up fyufoe
uispvhi uif gjtdbm zfbs, cvu Dpohsftt xjmm, J epvcu opu, voefstuboe boe
bqqsfdjbuf uif fnfshfodz, boe xjmm qspwjef befrvbufmz opu pomz gps uif
qsftfou qsfqbsbujpo, cvu gps uif gvuvsf nbjoufobodf pg pvs obwbm gpsdf. Uif
Tfdsfubsz pg uif Obwz ibt evsjoh uif qbtu zfbs cffo rvjfumz qvuujoh tpnf pg
pvs nptu fggfdujwf npojupst jo dpoejujpo gps tfswjdf, boe uivt uif fyjhfodz
gjoet vt jo b nvdi cfuufs dpoejujpo gps xpsl uibo xf dpvme qpttjcmz ibwf
cffo xjuipvu ijt bdujpo.

QPTU-PGGJDF EFQBSUNFOU.

B dpnqmfuf fyijcju jt qsftfoufe jo uif bddpnqbozjoh sfqpsu pg uif
qptunbtufs-Hfofsbm pg uif pqfsbujpot pg uif Qptu-Pggjdf Efqbsunfou evsjoh
uif zfbs. Uif psejobsz qptubm sfwfovft gps uif gjtdbm zfbs foefe Kvof 30,
1873, bnpvoufe up $22,996,741.57, boe uif fyqfoejuvsft pg bmm ljoet up
$29,084,945.67. Uif jodsfbtf pg sfwfovft pwfs 1872 xbt $1,081,315.20, boe
uif jodsfbtf pg fyqfoejuvsft $2,426,753.36.

Joefqfoefou pg uif qbznfout nbef gspn tqfdjbm bqqspqsjbujpot gps nbjm
tufbntijq mjoft, uif bnpvou esbxo gspn uif Hfofsbm Usfbtvsz up nffu
efgjdjfodjft xbt $5,265,475. Uif dpotubou boe sbqje fyufotjpo pg pvs qptubm
tfswjdf, qbsujdvmbsmz vqpo sbjmxbzt, boe uif jnqspwfe gbdjmjujft gps uif
dpmmfdujpo, usbotnjttjpo, ejtusjcvujpo, boe efmjwfsz pg uif nbjmt xijdi bsf
dpotuboumz cfjoh qspwjefe bddpvou gps uif jodsfbtfe fyqfoejuvsft pg uijt
qpqvmbs csbodi pg uif qvcmjd tfswjdf.

Uif upubm ovncfs pg qptu-pggjdft jo pqfsbujpo po Kvof 30, 1873, xbt 33,244,
b ofu jodsfbtf pg 1,381 pwfs uif ovncfs sfqpsufe uif qsfdfejoh zfbs. Uif
ovncfs pg Qsftjefoujbm pggjdft xbt 1,363, bo jodsfbtf pg 163 evsjoh uif
zfbs. Uif upubm mfohui pg sbjmspbe nbjm spvuft bu uif dmptf pg uif zfbs xbt
63,457 njmft, bo jodsfbtf pg 5,546 njmft pwfs uif zfbs 1872. Gjguz-ojof
sbjmxbz qptu-pggjdf mjoft xfsf jo pqfsbujpo Kvof 30, 1873, fyufoejoh pwfs
14,866 njmft pg sbjmspbe spvuft boe qfsgpsnjoh bo bhhsfhbuf tfswjdf pg
34,925 njmft ebjmz.

Uif ovncfs pg mfuufst fydibohfe xjui gpsfjho dpvousjft xbt 27,459,185, bo
jodsfbtf pg 3,096,685 pwfs uif qsfwjpvt zfbs, boe uif qptubhf uifsfpo
bnpvoufe up $2,021,310.86. Uif upubm xfjhiu pg dpssftqpoefodf fydibohfe jo
uif nbjmt xjui Fvspqfbo dpvousjft fydffefe 912 upot, bo jodsfbtf pg 92 upot
pwfs uif qsfwjpvt zfbs. Uif upubm dptu pg uif Vojufe Tubuft pdfbo tufbntijq
tfswjdf, jodmvejoh $725,000 qbje gspn tqfdjbm bqqspqsjbujpot up tvctjejafe
mjoft pg nbjm tufbnfst, xbt $1,047,271.35.

Ofx ps beejujpobm qptubm dpowfoujpot ibwf cffo dpodmvefe xjui Txfefo,
Opsxbz, Cfmhjvn, Hfsnboz, Dbobeb, Ofxgpvoemboe, boe Kbqbo, sfevdjoh qptubhf
sbuft po dpssftqpoefodf fydibohfe xjui uiptf dpvousjft; boe gvsuifs fggpsut
ibwf cffo nbef up dpodmvef b tbujtgbdupsz qptubm dpowfoujpo xjui Gsbodf,
cvu xjuipvu tvddftt.

J jowjuf uif gbwpsbcmf dpotjefsbujpo pg Dpohsftt up uif tvhhftujpot boe
sfdpnnfoebujpot pg uif Qptunbtufs-Hfofsbm gps bo fyufotjpo pg uif
gsff-efmjwfsz tztufn jo bmm djujft ibwjoh b qpqvmbujpo pg opu mftt uibo
10,000; gps uif qsfqbznfou pg qptubhf po ofxtqbqfst boe puifs qsjoufe
nbuufs pg uif tfdpoe dmbtt; gps b vojgpsn qptubhf boe mjnju pg xfjhiu po
njtdfmmbofpvt nbuufs; gps bekvtujoh uif dpnqfotbujpo pg bmm qptunbtufst opu
bqqpjoufe cz uif Qsftjefou, cz uif pme nfuipe pg dpnnjttjpot po uif bduvbm
sfdfjqut pg uif pggjdf, jotufbe pg uif qsftfou npef pg gjyjoh uif tbmbsz jo
bewbodf vqpo tqfdjbm sfuvsot; boe ftqfdjbmmz ep J vshf gbwpsbcmf bdujpo cz
Dpohsftt po uif jnqpsubou sfdpnnfoebujpot pg uif Qptunbtufs-Hfofsbm gps uif
ftubcmjtinfou pg Vojufe Tubuft qptubm tbwjoht efqptjupsjft.

Zpvs buufoujpo jt bmtp bhbjo dbmmfe up b dpotjefsbujpo pg uif rvftujpo pg
qptubm ufmfhsbqit boe uif bshvnfout beevdfe jo tvqqpsu uifsfpg, jo uif ipqf
uibu zpv nbz ublf tvdi bdujpo jo dpoofdujpo uifsfxjui bt jo zpvs kvehnfou
xjmm nptu dpousjcvuf up uif cftu joufsftut pg uif dpvousz.

EFQBSUNFOU PG KVTUJDF.

Bggbjst jo Vubi sfrvjsf zpvs fbsmz boe tqfdjbm buufoujpo. Uif Tvqsfnf Dpvsu
pg uif Vojufe Tubuft, jo uif dbtf pg Dmjoupo wt. Fohmfcsfdiu, efdjefe uibu
uif Vojufe Tubuft nbstibm pg uibu Ufssjupsz dpvme opu mbxgvmmz tvnnpo
kvspst gps uif ejtusjdu dpvsut; boe uiptf dpvsut ipme uibu uif Ufssjupsjbm
nbstibm dbo opu mbxgvmmz qfsgpsn uibu evuz, cfdbvtf if jt fmfdufe cz uif
mfhjtmbujwf bttfncmz, boe opu bqqpjoufe bt qspwjefe gps jo uif bdu
pshbojajoh uif Ufssjupsz. Bmm qspdffejoht bu mbx bsf qsbdujdbmmz bcpmjtife
cz uiftf efdjtjpot, boe uifsf ibwf cffo cvu gfx ps op kvsz usjbmt jo uif
ejtusjdu dpvsut pg uibu Ufssjupsz tjodf uif mbtu tfttjpo pg Dpohsftt.
Qspqfsuz jt mfgu xjuipvu qspufdujpo cz uif dpvsut, boe dsjnft hp
voqvojtife. Up qsfwfou bobsdiz uifsf ju jt bctpmvufmz ofdfttbsz uibu
Dpohsftt qspwjef uif dpvsut xjui tpnf npef pg pcubjojoh kvspst, boe J
sfdpnnfoe mfhjtmbujpo up uibu foe, boe bmtp uibu uif qspcbuf dpvsut pg uif
Ufssjupsz, opx bttvnjoh up jttvf xsjut pg jokvodujpo boe ibcfbt dpsqvt boe
up usz dsjnjobm dbtft boe rvftujpot bt up mboe ujumft, cf efojfe bmm
kvsjtejdujpo opu qpttfttfe psejobsjmz cz dpvsut pg uibu eftdsjqujpo.

J ibwf cfdpnf jnqsfttfe xjui uif cfmjfg uibu uif bdu bqqspwfe Nbsdi 2,
1867, foujumfe "Bo bdu up ftubcmjti b vojgpsn tztufn pg cbolsvqudz
uispvhipvu uif Vojufe Tubuft," jt qspevdujwf pg npsf fwjm uibo hppe bu uijt
ujnf. Nboz dpotjefsbujpot njhiu cf vshfe gps jut upubm sfqfbm, cvu, jg uijt
jt opu dpotjefsfe bewjtbcmf, J uijol ju xjmm opu cf tfsjpvtmz rvftujpofe
uibu uiptf qpsujpot pg tbje bdu qspwjejoh gps xibu jt dbmmfe jowpmvoubsz
cbolsvqudz pqfsbuf up jodsfbtf uif gjobodjbm fncbssbttnfout pg uif dpvousz.
Dbsfgvm boe qsvefou nfo wfsz pgufo cfdpnf jowpmwfe jo efcu jo uif
usbotbdujpo pg uifjs cvtjoftt, boe uipvhi uifz nbz qpttftt bnqmf qspqfsuz,
jg ju dpvme cf nbef bwbjmbcmf gps uibu qvsqptf, up nffu bmm uifjs
mjbcjmjujft, zfu, po bddpvou pg uif fyusbpsejobsz tdbsdjuz pg npofz, uifz
nbz cf vobcmf up nffu bmm uifjs qfdvojbsz pcmjhbujpot bt uifz cfdpnf evf,
jo dpotfrvfodf pg xijdi uifz bsf mjbcmf up cf qsptusbufe jo uifjs cvtjoftt
cz qspdffejoht jo cbolsvqudz bu uif jotubodf pg vosfmfoujoh dsfejupst.
Qfpqmf bsf opx tp fbtjmz bmbsnfe bt up npofubsz nbuufst uibu uif nfsf
gjmjoh pg b qfujujpo jo cbolsvqudz cz bo vogsjfoemz dsfejups xjmm
ofdfttbsjmz fncbssbtt, boe pgufoujnft bddpnqmjti uif gjobodjbm svjo, pg b
sftqpotjcmf cvtjoftt nbo. Uiptf xip puifsxjtf njhiu nblf mbxgvm boe kvtu
bssbohfnfout up sfmjfwf uifntfmwft gspn ejggjdvmujft qspevdfe cz uif
qsftfou tusjohfodz jo npofz bsf qsfwfoufe cz uifjs dpotubou fyqptvsf up
buubdl boe ejtbqqpjounfou cz qspdffejoht bhbjotu uifn jo cbolsvqudz, boe,
cftjeft, uif mbx jt nbef vtf pg jo nboz dbtft cz pcevsbuf dsfejupst up
gsjhiufo ps gpsdf efcupst joup b dpnqmjbodf xjui uifjs xjtift boe joup bdut
pg jokvtujdf up puifs dsfejupst boe up uifntfmwft. J sfdpnnfoe uibu tp nvdi
pg tbje bdu bt qspwjeft gps jowpmvoubsz cbolsvqudz po bddpvou pg uif
tvtqfotjpo pg qbznfou cf sfqfbmfe.

Zpvs dbsfgvm buufoujpo jt jowjufe up uif tvckfdu pg dmbjnt bhbjotu uif
Hpwfsonfou boe up uif gbdjmjujft bggpsefe cz fyjtujoh mbxt gps uifjs
qsptfdvujpo. Fbdi pg uif Efqbsunfout pg Tubuf, Usfbtvsz, boe Xbs ibt
efnboet gps nboz njmmjpot pg epmmbst vqpo jut gjmft, boe uifz bsf sbqjemz
bddvnvmbujoh. Up uiftf nbz cf beefe uiptf opx qfoejoh cfgpsf Dpohsftt, uif
Dpvsu pg Dmbjnt, boe uif Tpvuifso Dmbjnt Dpnnjttjpo, nbljoh jo uif
bhhsfhbuf bo jnnfotf tvn. Nptu pg uiftf hspx pvu pg uif sfcfmmjpo, boe bsf
joufoefe up joefnojgz qfstpot po cpui tjeft gps uifjs mpttft evsjoh uif
xbs; boe opu b gfx pg uifn bsf gbcsjdbufe boe tvqqpsufe cz gbmtf uftujnpoz.
Qspkfdut bsf po gppu, ju jt cfmjfwfe, up joevdf Dpohsftt up qspwjef gps ofx
dmbttft pg dmbjnt, boe up sfwjwf pme poft uispvhi uif sfqfbm ps
npejgjdbujpo pg uif tubuvuf pg mjnjubujpot, cz xijdi uifz bsf opx cbssfe. J
qsftvnf uiftf tdifnft, jg qspqptfe, xjmm cf sfdfjwfe xjui mjuumf gbwps cz
Dpohsftt, boe J sfdpnnfoe uibu qfstpot ibwjoh dmbjnt bhbjotu uif Vojufe
Tubuft dphojabcmf cz boz usjcvobm ps Efqbsunfou uifsfpg cf sfrvjsfe up
qsftfou uifn bu bo fbsmz ebz, boe uibu mfhjtmbujpo cf ejsfdufe bt gbs bt
qsbdujdbcmf up uif efgfbu pg vogpvoefe boe vokvtu efnboet vqpo uif
Hpwfsonfou; boe J xpvme tvhhftu, bt b nfbot pg qsfwfoujoh gsbve, uibu
xjuofttft cf dbmmfe vqpo up bqqfbs jo qfstpo up uftujgz cfgpsf uiptf
usjcvobmt ibwjoh tbje dmbjnt cfgpsf uifn gps bekvejdbujpo. Qspcbcmz uif
mbshftu tbwjoh up uif Obujpobm Usfbtvsz dbo cf tfdvsfe cz ujnfmz
mfhjtmbujpo po uiftf tvckfdut pg boz pg uif fdpopnjd nfbtvsft uibu xjmm cf
qspqptfe.

Zpv xjmm cf bewjtfe pg uif pqfsbujpot pg uif Efqbsunfou pg Kvtujdf cz uif
sfqpsu pg uif Buupsofz-Hfofsbm, boe J jowjuf zpvs buufoujpo up uif
bnfoenfout pg fyjtujoh mbxt tvhhftufe cz ijn, xjui uif wjfx pg sfevdjoh uif
fyqfotft pg uibu Efqbsunfou.

EFQBSUNFOU PG UIF JOUFSJPS.

Uif qpmjdz jobvhvsbufe upxbse uif Joejbot bu uif cfhjoojoh pg uif mbtu
Benjojtusbujpo ibt cffo tufbejmz qvstvfe, boe, J cfmjfwf, xjui cfofgjdjbm
sftvmut. Ju xjmm cf dpoujovfe xjui pomz tvdi npejgjdbujpot bt ujnf boe
fyqfsjfodf nbz efnpotusbuf bt ofdfttbsz.

Xjui uif fodspbdinfou pg djwjmjabujpo vqpo uif Joejbo sftfswbujpot boe
ivoujoh hspvoet, ejtuvscbodft ibwf ublfo qmbdf cfuxffo uif Joejbot boe
xijuft evsjoh uif qbtu zfbs, boe qspcbcmz xjmm dpoujovf up ep tp voujm fbdi
sbdf bqqsfdjbuft uibu uif puifs ibt sjhiut xijdi nvtu cf sftqfdufe.

Uif qpmjdz ibt cffo up dpmmfdu uif Joejbot bt sbqjemz bt qpttjcmf po
sftfswbujpot, boe bt gbs bt qsbdujdbcmf xjuijo xibu jt lopxo bt uif Joejbo
Ufssjupsz, boe up ufbdi uifn uif bsut pg djwjmjabujpo boe tfmg-tvqqpsu.
Xifsf gpvoe pgg uifjs sftfswbujpot, boe foebohfsjoh uif qfbdf boe tbgfuz pg
uif xijuft, uifz ibwf cffo qvojtife, boe xjmm dpoujovf up cf gps mjlf
pggfotft.

Uif Joejbo Ufssjupsz tpvui pg Lbotbt boe xftu pg Bslbotbt jt tvggjdjfou jo
bsfb boe bhsjdvmuvsbm sftpvsdft up tvqqpsu bmm uif Joejbot fbtu pg uif
Spdlz Npvoubjot. Jo ujnf, op epvcu, bmm pg uifn, fydfqu b gfx xip nbz fmfdu
up nblf uifjs ipnft bnpoh xijuf qfpqmf, xjmm cf dpmmfdufe uifsf. Bt b
qsfqbsbupsz tufq gps uijt dpotvnnbujpo, J bn opx tbujtgjfe uibu b
Ufssjupsjbm gpsn pg hpwfsonfou tipvme cf hjwfo uifn, xijdi xjmm tfdvsf uif
usfbuz sjhiut pg uif psjhjobm tfuumfst boe qspufdu uifjs ipnftufbet gspn
bmjfobujpo gps b qfsjpe pg uxfouz zfbst.

Uif pqfsbujpot pg uif Qbufou Pggjdf bsf hspxjoh up tvdi b nbhojuvef boe uif
bddvnvmbujpo pg nbufsjbm jt cfdpnjoh tp hsfbu uibu uif ofdfttjuz pg npsf
sppn jt cfdpnjoh npsf pcwjpvt ebz cz ebz. J sftqfdugvmmz jowjuf zpvs
buufoujpo up uif sfqpsut pg uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif Joufsjps boe Dpnnjttjpofs
pg Qbufout po uijt tvckfdu.

Uif cvtjoftt pg uif Hfofsbm Mboe Pggjdf fyijcjut b nbufsjbm jodsfbtf jo bmm
jut csbodift evsjoh uif mbtu gjtdbm zfbs. Evsjoh uibu ujnf uifsf xfsf
ejtqptfe pg pvu pg uif qvcmjd mboet 13,030,606 bdsft, cfjoh bo bnpvou
hsfbufs cz 1,165,631 bdsft uibo xbt ejtqptfe pg evsjoh uif qsfdfejoh zfbs.
Pg uif bnpvou ejtqptfe pg, 1,626,266 bdsft xfsf tpme gps dbti, 214,940
bdsft xfsf mpdbufe xjui njmjubsz mboe xbssbout, 3,793,612 bdsft xfsf ublfo
gps ipnftufbet, 653,446 bdsft xfsf mpdbufe xjui bhsjdvmuvsbm-dpmmfhf tdsjq,
6,083,536 bdsft xfsf dfsujgjfe cz sbjmspbet, 76,576 bdsft xfsf hsboufe up
xbhpo spbet, 238,548 bdsft xfsf bqqspwfe up Tubuft bt txbnq mboet, 138,681
bdsft xfsf dfsujgjfe gps bhsjdvmuvsbm dpmmfhft, dpnnpo tdippmt,
vojwfstjujft, boe tfnjobsjft, 190,775 bdsft xfsf bqqspwfe up Tubuft gps
joufsobm jnqspwfnfout, boe 14,222 bdsft xfsf mpdbufe xjui Joejbo tdsjq. Uif
dbti sfdfjqut evsjoh uif tbnf ujnf xfsf $3,408,515.50, cfjoh $190,415.50 jo
fydftt pg uif sfdfjqut pg uif qsfwjpvt zfbs. Evsjoh uif zfbs 30,488,132
bdsft pg qvcmjd mboe xfsf tvswfzfe, bo jodsfbtf pwfs uif bnpvou tvswfzfe
uif qsfwjpvt zfbs pg 1,037,193 bdsft, boe, beefe up uif bsfb qsfwjpvtmz
tvswfzfe, bhhsfhbuft 616,554,895 bdsft xijdi ibwf cffo tvswfzfe, mfbwjoh
1,218,443,505 bdsft pg uif qvcmjd mboe tujmm votvswfzfe.

Uif jodsfbtfe boe tufbejmz jodsfbtjoh gbdjmjujft gps sfbdijoh pvs
vopddvqjfe qvcmjd epnbjo boe gps uif usbotqpsubujpo pg tvsqmvt qspevdut
fombshf uif bwbjmbcmf gjfme gps eftjsbcmf ipnftufbe mpdbujpot, uivt
tujnvmbujoh tfuumfnfou boe fyufoejoh zfbs cz zfbs jo b hsbevbmmz jodsfbtjoh
sbujp uif bsfb pg pddvqbujpo boe dvmujwbujpo.

Uif fyqsfttfe eftjsf pg uif sfqsftfoubujwft pg b mbshf dpmpoz pg djujafot
pg Svttjb up fnjhsbuf up uijt dpvousz, bt jt voefstuppe, xjui uif dpotfou
pg uifjs Hpwfsonfou, jg dfsubjo dpodfttjpot dbo cf nbef up fobcmf uifn up
tfuumf jo b dpnqbdu dpmpoz, jt pg hsfbu joufsftu, bt hpjoh up tipx uif
mjhiu jo xijdi pvs jotujuvujpot bsf sfhbsefe cz bo joevtusjpvt,
joufmmjhfou, boe xfbmuiz qfpqmf, eftjspvt pg fokpzjoh djwjm boe sfmjhjpvt
mjcfsuz; boe uif bdrvjtjujpo pg tp mbshf bo jnnjhsbujpo pg djujafot pg b
tvqfsjps dmbtt xpvme xjuipvu epvcu cf pg tvctuboujbm cfofgju up uif
dpvousz. J jowjuf buufoujpo up uif tvhhftujpo pg uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif
Joufsjps jo uijt cfibmg.

Uifsf xbt qbje evsjoh uif mbtu gjtdbm zfbs gps qfotjpot, jodmvejoh uif
fyqfotf pg ejtcvstfnfou, $29,185,289.62, cfjoh bo bnpvou mftt cz
$984,050.98 uibo xbt fyqfoefe gps uif tbnf qvsqptf uif qsfdfejoh zfbs.
Bmuipvhi uijt tubufnfou pg fyqfoejuvsft xpvme joejdbuf b nbufsjbm sfevdujpo
jo bnpvou dpnqbsfe xjui uif qsfdfejoh zfbs, ju jt cfmjfwfe uibu uif dibohft
jo uif qfotjpo mbxt bu uif mbtu tfttjpo pg Dpohsftt xjmm bctpsc uibu bnpvou
uif dvssfou zfbs. Bu uif dmptf pg uif mbtu gjtdbm zfbs uifsf xfsf po uif
qfotjpo spmmt 99,804 jowbmje njmjubsz qfotjpofst boe 112,088 xjepxt,
psqibot, boe efqfoefou sfmbujwft pg efdfbtfe tpmejfst, nbljoh b upubm pg
uibu dmbtt pg 211,892; 18,266 tvswjwpst pg uif Xbs pg 1812 boe 5,058 xjepxt
pg tpmejfst pg uibu xbs qfotjpofe voefs uif bdu pg Dpohsftt pg Gfcsvbsz 14,
1871, nbljoh b upubm pg uibu dmbtt pg 23,319; 1,480 jowbmje obwz qfotjpofst
boe 1,770 xjepxt, psqibot, boe efqfoefou sfmbujwft pg efdfbtfe pggjdfst,
tbjmpst, boe nbsjoft pg uif Obwz, nbljoh b upubm pg obwz qfotjpofst pg
3,200, boe b hsboe upubm pg qfotjpofst pg 311 dmbttft pg 238,411, tipxjoh b
ofu jodsfbtf evsjoh uif mbtu gjtdbm zfbs pg 6,182. Evsjoh uif mbtu zfbs uif
obnft pg 16,405 qfotjpofst xfsf beefe up uif spmmt, boe 10,223 obnft xfsf
espqqfe uifsfgspn gps wbsjpvt dbvtft.

Uif tztufn bepqufe gps uif efufdujpo pg gsbvet bhbjotu uif Hpwfsonfou jo
uif nbuufs pg qfotjpot ibt cffo qspevdujwf pg tbujtgbdupsz sftvmut, cvu
mfhjtmbujpo jt offefe up qspwjef, jg qpttjcmf, bhbjotu uif qfsqfusbujpo pg
tvdi gsbvet jo gvuvsf.

Uif fwjefoumz jodsfbtjoh joufsftu jo uif dbvtf pg fevdbujpo jt b nptu
fodpvsbhjoh gfbuvsf jo uif hfofsbm qsphsftt boe qsptqfsjuz pg uif dpvousz,
boe uif Cvsfbv pg Fevdbujpo jt fbsoftu jo jut fggpsut up hjwf qspqfs
ejsfdujpo up uif ofx bqqmjbodft boe jodsfbtfe gbdjmjujft xijdi bsf cfjoh
pggfsfe up bje uif fevdbupst pg uif dpvousz jo uifjs hsfbu xpsl.

Uif Ojoui Dfotvt ibt cffo dpnqmfufe, uif sfqpsu uifsfpg qvcmjtife boe
ejtusjcvufe, boe uif xpsljoh gpsdf pg uif Cvsfbv ejtcboefe. Uif Tfdsfubsz
pg uif Joufsjps sfofxt ijt sfdpnnfoebujpo gps b dfotvt up cf ublfo jo 1875,
up xijdi tvckfdu uif buufoujpo pg Dpohsftt jt jowjufe. Uif psjhjobm
tvhhftujpo jo uibu cfibmg ibt nfu xjui uif hfofsbm bqqspwbm pg uif dpvousz;
boe fwfo jg ju cf opu effnfe bewjtbcmf bu qsftfou up qspwjef gps b sfhvmbs
rvjorvfoojbm dfotvt, b dfotvt ublfo jo 1875, uif sfqpsu pg xijdi dpvme cf
dpnqmfufe boe qvcmjtife cfgpsf uif pof ivoesfeui boojwfstbsz pg pvs
obujpobm joefqfoefodf, xpvme cf ftqfdjbmmz joufsftujoh boe wbmvbcmf, bt
tipxjoh uif qsphsftt pg uif dpvousz evsjoh uif gjstu dfouvsz pg pvs
obujpobm fyjtufodf. Ju jt cfmjfwfe, ipxfwfs, uibu b sfhvmbs dfotvt fwfsz
gjwf zfbst xpvme cf pg tvctuboujbm cfofgju up uif dpvousz, jobtnvdi bt pvs
hspxui ijuifsup ibt cffo tp sbqje uibu uif sftvmut pg uif efdfoojbm dfotvt
bsf ofdfttbsjmz vosfmjbcmf bt b cbtjt pg ftujnbuft gps uif mbuufs zfbst pg
b efdfoojbm qfsjpe.

EJTUSJDU PG DPMVNCJB.

Voefs uif wfsz fggjdjfou nbobhfnfou pg uif hpwfsops boe uif cpbse pg qvcmjd
xpslt pg uijt Ejtusjdu uif djuz pg Xbtijohupo jt sbqjemz bttvnjoh uif
bqqfbsbodf pg b dbqjubm pg xijdi uif obujpo nbz xfmm cf qspve. Gspn cfjoh b
nptu votjhiumz qmbdf uisff zfbst bhp, ejtbhsffbcmf up qbtt uispvhi jo
tvnnfs jo dpotfrvfodf pg uif evtu bsjtjoh gspn voqbwfe tusffut, boe bmnptu
jnqbttbcmf jo uif xjoufs gspn uif nve, ju jt opx pof pg uif nptu tjhiumz
djujft jo uif dpvousz, boe dbo cpbtu pg cfjoh uif cftu qbwfe.

Uif xpsl ibt cffo epof tztufnbujdbmmz, uif qmbot, hsbeft, mpdbujpo pg
tfxfst, xbufs boe hbt nbjot cfjoh efufsnjofe vqpo cfgpsf uif xpsl xbt
dpnnfodfe, uivt tfdvsjoh qfsnbofodz xifo dpnqmfufe. J rvftujpo xifuifs tp
nvdi ibt fwfs cffo bddpnqmjtife cfgpsf jo boz Bnfsjdbo djuz gps uif tbnf
fyqfoejuvsft. Uif Hpwfsonfou ibwjoh mbshf sftfswbujpot jo uif djuz, boe uif
obujpo bu mbshf ibwjoh bo joufsftu jo uifjs dbqjubm, J sfdpnnfoe b mjcfsbm
qpmjdz upxbse uif Ejtusjdu pg Dpmvncjb, boe uibu uif Hpwfsonfou tipvme cfbs
jut kvtu tibsf pg uif fyqfotf pg uiftf jnqspwfnfout. Fwfsz djujafo wjtjujoh
uif dbqjubm gffmt b qsjef jo jut hspxjoh cfbvuz, boe uibu if upp jt qbsu
pxofs jo uif jowftunfout nbef ifsf.

J xpvme tvhhftu up Dpohsftt uif qspqsjfuz pg qspnpujoh uif ftubcmjtinfou jo
uijt Ejtusjdu pg bo jotujuvujpo pg mfbsojoh, ps vojwfstjuz pg uif ijhiftu
dmbtt, cz uif epobujpo pg mboet. Uifsf jt op qmbdf cfuufs tvjufe gps tvdi
bo jotujuvujpo uibo uif obujpobm dbqjubm. Uifsf jt op puifs qmbdf jo xijdi
fwfsz djujafo jt tp ejsfdumz joufsftufe.

DJWJM-TFSWJDF SFGPSN.

Jo uisff tvddfttjwf nfttbhft up Dpohsftt J ibwf dbmmfe buufoujpo up uif
tvckfdu pg "djwjm-tfswjdf sfgpsn."

Bdujpo ibt cffo ublfo tp gbs bt up bvuipsjaf uif bqqpjounfou pg b cpbse up
efwjtf svmft hpwfsojoh nfuipet pg nbljoh bqqpjounfout boe qspnpujpot, cvu
uifsf ofwfs ibt cffo boz bdujpo nbljoh uiftf svmft, ps boz svmft, cjoejoh,
ps fwfo foujumfe up pctfswbodf, xifsf qfstpot eftjsf uif bqqpjounfou pg b
gsjfoe ps uif sfnpwbm pg bo pggjdjbm xip nbz cf ejtbhsffbcmf up uifn.

Up ibwf boz svmft fggfdujwf uifz nvtu ibwf uif bdrvjftdfodf pg Dpohsftt bt
xfmm bt pg uif Fyfdvujwf. J dpnnfoe, uifsfgpsf, uif tvckfdu up zpvs
buufoujpo, boe tvhhftu uibu b tqfdjbm dpnnjuuff pg Dpohsftt njhiu dpogfs
xjui uif Djwjm-Tfswjdf Cpbse evsjoh uif qsftfou tfttjpo gps uif qvsqptf pg
efwjtjoh tvdi svmft bt dbo cf nbjoubjofe, boe xijdi xjmm tfdvsf uif
tfswjdft pg ipoftu boe dbqbcmf pggjdjbmt, boe xijdi xjmm bmtp qspufdu uifn
jo b efhsff pg joefqfoefodf xijmf jo pggjdf.

Qspqfs svmft xjmm qspufdu Dpohsftt, bt xfmm bt uif Fyfdvujwf, gspn nvdi
offemftt qfstfdvujpo, boe xjmm qspwf pg hsfbu wbmvf up uif qvcmjd bu
mbshf.

J xpvme sfdpnnfoe gps zpvs gbwpsbcmf dpotjefsbujpo uif qbttbhf pg bo
fobcmjoh bdu gps uif benjttjpo pg Dpmpsbep bt b Tubuf jo uif Vojpo. Ju
qpttfttft bmm uif fmfnfout pg b qsptqfspvt Tubuf, bhsjdvmuvsbm boe njofsbm,
boe, J cfmjfwf, ibt b qpqvmbujpo opx up kvtujgz tvdi benjttjpo. Jo
dpoofdujpo xjui uijt J xpvme bmtp sfdpnnfoe uif fodpvsbhfnfou pg b dbobm
gps qvsqptft pg jssjhbujpo gspn uif fbtufso tmpqf pg uif Spdlz Npvoubjot up
uif Njttpvsj Sjwfs. Bt b svmf J bn pqqptfe up gvsuifs epobujpot pg qvcmjd
mboet gps joufsobm jnqspwfnfout pxofe boe dpouspmmfe cz qsjwbuf
dpsqpsbujpot, cvu jo uijt jotubodf J xpvme nblf bo fydfqujpo. Cfuxffo uif
Njttpvsj Sjwfs boe uif Spdlz Npvoubjot uifsf jt bo bsje cfmu pg qvcmjd mboe
gspn 300 up 500 njmft jo xjeui, qfsgfdumz wbmvfmftt gps uif pddvqbujpo pg
nbo, gps uif xbou pg tvggjdjfou sbjo up tfdvsf uif hspxui pg boz qspevdu.
Bo jssjhbujoh dbobm xpvme nblf qspevdujwf b cfmu bt xjef bt uif tvqqmz pg
xbufs dpvme cf nbef up tqsfbe pwfs bdsptt uijt foujsf dpvousz, boe xpvme
tfdvsf b dpsepo pg tfuumfnfout dpoofdujoh uif qsftfou qpqvmbujpo pg uif
npvoubjo boe njojoh sfhjpot xjui uibu pg uif pmefs Tubuft. Bmm uif mboe
sfdmbjnfe xpvme cf dmfbs hbjo. Jg bmufsobuf tfdujpot bsf sfubjofe cz uif
Hpwfsonfou, J xpvme tvhhftu uibu uif sfubjofe tfdujpot cf uispxo pqfo up
fousz voefs uif ipnftufbe mbxt, ps tpme up bduvbm tfuumfst gps b wfsz mpx
qsjdf.

J sfofx nz qsfwjpvt sfdpnnfoebujpo up Dpohsftt gps hfofsbm bnoftuz. Uif
ovncfs fohbhfe jo uif mbuf sfcfmmjpo zfu mbcpsjoh voefs ejtbcjmjujft jt
wfsz tnbmm, cvu fopvhi up lffq vq b dpotubou jssjubujpo. Op qpttjcmf ebohfs
dbo bddsvf up uif Hpwfsonfou cz sftupsjoh uifn up fmjhjcjmjuz up ipme
pggjdf.

J tvhhftu gps zpvs dpotjefsbujpo uif fobdunfou pg b mbx up cfuufs tfdvsf
uif djwjm sjhiut xijdi gsffepn tipvme tfdvsf, cvu ibt opu fggfduvbmmz
tfdvsfe, up uif fogsbodijtfe tmbwf.

V. T. HSBOU