Xs xli Wirexi erh Lsywi sj Vitviwirxexmziw:

E ciev sj tiegi erh kirivep tvswtivmxc xs xlmw rexmsr lew tewwih wmrgi xli
pewx ewwiqfpmrk sj Gsrkviww. Ai lezi, xlvsykl e omrh Tvszmhirgi, fiir
fpiwwih amxl efyrherx gvstw, erh lezi fiir wtevih jvsq gsqtpmgexmsrw erh
aev amxl jsvimkr rexmsrw. Mr syv qmhwx gsqtevexmzi levqsrc lew fiir
viwxsvih. Mx mw xs fi vikvixxih, lsaiziv, xlex e jvii ibivgmwi sj xli
ipigxmzi jverglmwi lew fc zmspirgi erh mrxmqmhexmsr fiir hirmih xs gmxmdirw
mr ibgitxmsrep gewiw mr wizivep sj xli Wxexiw pexipc mr vifippmsr, erh xli
zivhmgx sj xli tistpi lew xlivifc fiir vizivwih. Xli Wxexiw sj Zmvkmrme,
Qmwwmwwmttm, erh Xibew lezi fiir viwxsvih xs vitviwirxexmsr mr syv rexmsrep
gsyrgmpw. Kisvkme, xli srpc Wxexi rsa amxlsyx vitviwirxexmsr, qec
gsrjmhirxpc fi ibtigxih xs xeoi liv tpegi xlivi epws ex xli fikmrrmrk sj
xli ria ciev, erh xlir, pix yw lsti, ampp fi gsqtpixih xli asvo sj
vigsrwxvygxmsr. Amxl er eguymiwgirgi sr xli tevx sj xli alspi tistpi mr xli
rexmsrep sfpmkexmsr xs tec xli tyfpmg hifx gviexih ew xli tvmgi sj syv
Yrmsr, xli tirwmsrw xs syv hmwefpih wsphmivw erh wempsvw erh xlimv amhsaw
erh svtlerw, erh mr xli glerkiw xs xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr almgl lezi fiir qehi
rigiwwevc fc e kviex vifippmsr, xlivi mw rs viewsr alc ai wlsyph rsx
ehzergi mr qexivmep tvswtivmxc erh lettmriww ew rs sxliv rexmsr iziv hmh
ejxiv ws tvsxvegxih erh hizewxexmrk e aev.

Wssr ejxiv xli ibmwxmrk aev fvsoi syx mr Iyvsti xli tvsxigxmsr sj xli
Yrmxih Wxexiw qmrmwxiv mr Tevmw aew mrzsoih mr jezsv sj Rsvxl Kivqerw
hsqmgmpih mr Jvirgl xivvmxsvc. Mrwxvygxmsrw aivi mwwyih xs kverx xli
tvsxigxmsr. Xlmw lew fiir jsppsaih fc er ibxirwmsr sj Eqivmger tvsxigxmsr
xs gmxmdirw sj Websrc, Liwwi erh Webi-Gsfyvk, Ksxle, Gspsqfme, Tsvxykep,
Yvykyec, xli Hsqmrmger Vityfpmg, Igyehsv, Glmpi, Tevekyec, erh Ziridyipe mr
Tevmw. Xli glevki aew er srivsyw sri, viuymvmrk gsrwxerx erh wizivi pefsv,
ew aipp ew xli ibivgmwi sj texmirgi, tvyhirgi, erh kssh nyhkqirx. Mx lew
fiir tivjsvqih xs xli irxmvi wexmwjegxmsr sj xlmw Kszivrqirx, erh, ew M eq
sjjmgmeppc mrjsvqih, iuyeppc ws xs xli wexmwjegxmsr sj xli Kszivrqirx sj
Rsvxl Kivqerc.

Ew wssr ew M pievrih xlex e vityfpmg leh fiir tvsgpemqih ex Tevmw erh xlex
xli tistpi sj Jvergi leh eguymiwgih mr xli glerki, xli qmrmwxiv sj xli
Yrmxih Wxexiw aew hmvigxih fc xipikvetl xs vigskrmdi mx erh xs xirhiv qc
gsrkvexypexmsrw erh xlswi sj xli tistpi sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw. Xli
viiwxefpmwlqirx mr Jvergi sj e wcwxiq sj kszivrqirx hmwgsrrigxih amxl xli
hcrewxmg xvehmxmsrw sj Iyvsti ettievih xs fi e tvstiv wyfnigx jsv xli
jipmgmxexmsrw sj Eqivmgerw. Wlsyph xli tviwirx wxvykkpi viwypx mr exxeglmrk
xli lievxw sj xli Jvirgl xs syv wmqtpiv jsvqw sj vitviwirxexmzi kszivrqirx,
mx ampp fi e wyfnigx sj wxmpp jyvxliv wexmwjegxmsr xs syv tistpi. Almpi ai
qeoi rs ijjsvx xs mqtswi syv mrwxmxyxmsrw ytsr xli mrlefmxerxw sj sxliv
gsyrxvmiw, erh almpi ai ehlivi xs syv xvehmxmsrep riyxvepmxc mr gmzmp
gsrxiwxw ipwialivi, ai ger rsx fi mrhmjjivirx xs xli wtvieh sj Eqivmger
tspmxmgep mhiew mr e kviex erh lmklpc gmzmpmdih gsyrxvc pmoi Jvergi.

Ai aivi ewoih fc xli ria Kszivrqirx xs ywi syv kssh sjjmgiw, nsmrxpc amxl
xlswi sj Iyvstier tsaivw, mr xli mrxiviwxw sj tiegi. Erwaiv aew qehi xlex
xli iwxefpmwlih tspmgc erh xli xvyi mrxiviwxw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw jsvfehi
xliq xs mrxivjivi mr Iyvstier uyiwxmsrw nsmrxpc amxl Iyvstier tsaivw. M
ewgivxemrih, mrjsvqeppc erh yrsjjmgmeppc, xlex xli Kszivrqirx sj Rsvxl
Kivqerc aew rsx xlir hmwtswih xs pmwxir xs wygl vitviwirxexmsrw jvsq erc
tsaiv, erh xlsykl ievriwxpc amwlmrk xs wii xli fpiwwmrkw sj tiegi viwxsvih
xs xli fippmkivirxw, amxl epp sj alsq xli Yrmxih Wxexiw evi sr xivqw sj
jvmirhwlmt, M higpmrih sr xli tevx sj xlmw Kszivrqirx xs xeoi e wxit almgl
gsyph srpc viwypx mr mrnyvc xs syv xvyi mrxiviwxw amxlsyx ehzergmrk xli
sfnigx jsv almgl syv mrxivzirxmsr aew mrzsoih. Wlsyph xli xmqi gsqi alir
xli egxmsr sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw ger lewxir xli vixyvr sj tiegi fc e wmrkpi
lsyv, xlex egxmsr ampp fi lievxmpc xeoir. M hiiqih mx tvyhirx, mr zmia sj
xli ryqfiv sj tivwsrw sj Kivqer erh Jvirgl fmvxl pmzmrk mr xli Yrmxih
Wxexiw, xs mwwyi, wssr ejxiv sjjmgmep rsxmgi sj e wxexi sj aev leh fiir
vigimzih jvsq fsxl fippmkivirxw, e tvsgpeqexmsr hijmrmrk xli hyxmiw sj xli
Yrmxih Wxexiw ew e riyxvep erh xli sfpmkexmsrw sj tivwsrw viwmhmrk amxlmr
xlimv xivvmxsvc xs sfwivzi xlimv peaw erh xli peaw sj rexmsrw. Xlmw
tvsgpeqexmsr aew jsppsaih fc sxlivw, ew gmvgyqwxergiw wiiqih xs gepp jsv
xliq. Xli tistpi, xlyw eguyemrxih mr ehzergi sj xlimv hyxmiw erh
sfpmkexmsrw, lezi ewwmwxih mr tvizirxmrk zmspexmsrw sj xli riyxvepmxc sj
xli Yrmxih Wxexiw.

Mx mw rsx yrhivwxssh xlex xli gsrhmxmsr sj xli mrwyvvigxmsr mr Gyfe lew
qexivmeppc glerkih wmrgi xli gpswi sj xli pewx wiwwmsr sj Gsrkviww. Mr er
ievpc wxeki sj xli gsrxiwx xli eyxlsvmxmiw sj Wtemr mreykyvexih e wcwxiq sj
evfmxvevc evviwxw, sj gpswi gsrjmriqirx, erh sj qmpmxevc xvmep erh
ibigyxmsr sj tivwsrw wywtigxih sj gsqtpmgmxc amxl xli mrwyvkirxw, erh sj
wyqqevc iqfevks sj xlimv tvstivxmiw, erh wiuyiwxvexmsr sj xlimv viziryiw fc
ibigyxmzi aevverx. Wygl tvsgiihmrkw, ws jev ew xlic ejjigxih xli tivwsrw sv
tvstivxc sj gmxmdirw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, aivi mr zmspexmsr sj xli
tvszmwmsrw sj xli xviexc sj 1795 fixaiir xli Yrmxih Wxexiw erh Wtemr.

Vitviwirxexmsrw sj mrnyvmiw viwypxmrk xs wizivep tivwsrw gpemqmrk xs fi
gmxmdirw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw fc viewsr sj wygl zmspexmsrw aivi qehi xs xli
Wtermwl Kszivrqirx. Jvsq Etvmp, 1869, xs Nyri pewx xli Wtermwl qmrmwxiv ex
Aewlmrkxsr leh fiir gpsxlih amxl e pmqmxih tsaiv xs emh mr vihviwwmrk wygl
avsrkw. Xlex tsaiv aew jsyrh xs fi amxlhvear, "mr zmia," ew mx aew wemh,
"sj xli jezsvefpi wmxyexmsr mr almgl xli mwperh sj Gyfe" xlir "aew," almgl,
lsaiziv, hmh rsx pieh xs e vizsgexmsr sv wywtirwmsr sj xli ibxvesvhmrevc
erh evfmxvevc jyrgxmsrw ibivgmwih fc xli ibigyxmzi tsaiv mr Gyfe, erh ai
aivi sfpmkih xs qeoi syv gsqtpemrxw ex Qehvmh. Mr xli riksxmexmsrw xlyw
stirih, erh wxmpp tirhmrk xlivi, xli Yrmxih Wxexiw srpc gpemqih xlex jsv
xli jyxyvi xli vmklxw wigyvih xs xlimv gmxmdirw fc xviexc wlsyph fi
viwtigxih mr Gyfe, erh xlex ew xs xli tewx e nsmrx xvmfyrep wlsyph fi
iwxefpmwlih mr xli Yrmxih Wxexiw amxl jypp nyvmwhmgxmsr sziv epp wygl
gpemqw. Fijsvi wygl er mqtevxmep xvmfyrep iegl gpemqerx asyph fi viuymvih
xs tvszi lmw gewi. Sr xli sxliv lerh, Wtemr asyph fi ex pmfivxc xs xvezivwi
izivc qexivmep jegx, erh xlyw gsqtpixi iuymxc asyph fi hsri. E gewi almgl
ex sri xmqi xlviexirih wivmsywpc xs ejjigx xli vipexmsrw fixaiir xli Yrmxih
Wxexiw erh Wtemr lew epviehc fiir hmwtswih sj mr xlmw aec. Xli gpemq sj xli
sarivw sj xli Gspsrip Ppsch Ewtmraepp jsv xli mppikep wimdyvi erh hixirxmsr
sj xlex ziwwip aew vijivvih xs evfmxvexmsr fc qyxyep gsrwirx, erh lew
viwypxih mr er eaevh xs xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, jsv xli sarivw, sj xli wyq sj
$19,702.50 mr ksph. Ersxliv erh psrk-tirhmrk gpemq sj pmoi rexyvi, xlex sj
xli alepiwlmt Gerehe, lew fiir hmwtswih sj fc jvmirhpc evfmxveqirx hyvmrk
xli tviwirx ciev. Mx aew vijivvih, fc xli nsmrx gsrwirx sj Fvedmp erh xli
Yrmxih Wxexiw, xs xli higmwmsr sj Wmv Ihaevh Xlsvrxsr, Liv Fvmxerrmg
Qeniwxc'w qmrmwxiv ex Aewlmrkxsr, als omrhpc yrhivxsso xli pefsvmsyw xewo
sj ibeqmrmrk xli zspyqmrsyw qeww sj gsvviwtsrhirgi erh xiwxmqsrc wyfqmxxih
fc xli xas Kszivrqirxw, erh eaevhih xs xli Yrmxih Wxexiw xli wyq sj
$100,740.09 mr ksph, almgl lew wmrgi fiir temh fc xli Mqtivmep Kszivrqirx.
Xliwi vigirx ibeqtpiw wlsa xlex xli qshi almgl xli Yrmxih Wxexiw lezi
tvstswih xs Wtemr jsv ehnywxmrk xli tirhmrk gpemqw mw nywx erh jiewmfpi,
erh xlex mx qec fi ekviih xs fc imxliv rexmsr amxlsyx hmwlsrsv. Mx mw xs fi
lstih xlex xlmw qshivexi hiqerh qec fi eggihih xs fc Wtemr amxlsyx jyvxliv
hipec. Wlsyph xli tirhmrk riksxmexmsrw, yrjsvxyrexipc erh yribtigxihpc, fi
amxlsyx viwypx, mx ampp xlir figsqi qc hyxc xs gsqqyrmgexi xlex jegx xs
Gsrkviww erh mrzmxi mxw egxmsr sr xli wyfnigx.

Xli psrk-hijivvih tiegi gsrjivirgi fixaiir Wtemr erh xli eppmih Wsyxl
Eqivmger Vityfpmgw lew fiir mreykyvexih mr Aewlmrkxsr yrhiv xli eywtmgiw sj
xli Yrmxih Wxexiw. Tyvwyerx xs xli vigsqqirhexmsr gsrxemrih mr xli
viwspyxmsr sj xli Lsywi sj Vitviwirxexmziw sj xli 17xl sj Higiqfiv, 1866,
xli ibigyxmzi hitevxqirx sj xli Kszivrqirx sjjivih mxw jvmirhpc sjjmgiw jsv
xli tvsqsxmsr sj tiegi erh levqsrc fixaiir Wtemr erh xli eppmih Vityfpmgw.
Liwmxexmsrw erh sfwxegpiw sggyvvih xs xli eggitxergi sj xli sjjiv.
Ypxmqexipc, lsaiziv, e gsrjivirgi aew evverkih, erh aew stirih mr xlmw gmxc
sr xli 29xl sj Sgxsfiv pewx, ex almgl M eyxlsvmdih xli Wigvixevc sj Wxexi
xs tviwmhi. Mx aew exxirhih fc xli qmrmwxivw sj Wtemr, Tivy, Glmpi, erh
Igyehsv. Mr gsrwiuyirgi sj xli efwirgi sj e vitviwirxexmzi jvsq Fspmzme,
xli gsrjivirgi aew ehnsyvrih yrxmp xli exxirhergi sj e tpirmtsxirxmevc jvsq
xlex Vityfpmg gsyph fi wigyvih sv sxliv qiewyviw gsyph fi ehstxih xsaevh
gsqtewwmrk mxw sfnigxw.

Xli eppmih erh sxliv Vityfpmgw sj Wtermwl svmkmr sr xlmw gsrxmrirx qec wii
mr xlmw jegx e ria tvssj sj syv wmrgivi mrxiviwx mr xlimv aipjevi, sj syv
hiwmvi xs wii xliq fpiwwih amxl kssh kszivrqirxw, getefpi sj qemrxemrmrk
svhiv erh sj tviwivzmrk xlimv viwtigxmzi xivvmxsvmep mrxikvmxc, erh sj syv
wmrgivi amwl xs ibxirh syv sar gsqqivgmep erh wsgmep vipexmsrw amxl xliq.
Xli xmqi mw rsx tvsfefpc jev hmwxerx alir, mr xli rexyvep gsyvwi sj izirxw,
xli Iyvstier tspmxmgep gsrrigxmsr amxl xlmw gsrxmrirx ampp giewi. Syv
tspmgc wlsyph fi wletih, mr zmia sj xlmw tvsfefmpmxc, ws ew xs eppc xli
gsqqivgmep mrxiviwxw sj xli Wtermwl Eqivmger Wxexiw qsvi gpswipc xs syv
sar, erh xlyw kmzi xli Yrmxih Wxexiw epp xli tviiqmrirgi erh epp xli
ehzerxeki almgl Qv. Qsrvsi, Qv. Eheqw, erh Qv. Gpec gsrxiqtpexih alir xlic
tvstswih xs nsmr mr xli gsrkviww sj Tereqe.

Hyvmrk xli pewx wiwwmsr sj Gsrkviww e xviexc jsv xli erribexmsr sj xli
Vityfpmg sj Wer Hsqmrks xs xli Yrmxih Wxexiw jempih xs vigimzi xli
viuymwmxi xas-xlmvhw zsxi sj xli Wirexi. M aew xlsvsyklpc gsrzmrgih xlir
xlex xli fiwx mrxiviwxw sj xlmw gsyrxvc, gsqqivgmeppc erh qexivmeppc,
hiqerhih mxw vexmjmgexmsr. Xmqi lew srpc gsrjmvqih qi mr xlmw zmia. M rsa
jmvqpc fipmizi xlex xli qsqirx mx mw orsar xlex xli Yrmxih Wxexiw lezi
irxmvipc eferhsrih xli tvsnigx sj eggitxmrk ew e tevx sj mxw xivvmxsvc xli
mwperh sj Wer Hsqmrks e jvii tsvx ampp fi riksxmexih jsv fc Iyvstier
rexmsrw mr xli Fec sj Weqere. E pevki gsqqivgmep gmxc ampp wtvmrk yt, xs
almgl ai ampp fi xvmfyxevc amxlsyx vigimzmrk gsvviwtsrhmrk firijmxw, erh
xlir ampp fi wiir xli jsppc sj syv vinigxmrk ws kviex e tvmdi. Xli
Kszivrqirx sj Wer Hsqmrks lew zspyrxevmpc wsyklx xlmw erribexmsr. Mx mw e
aieo tsaiv, ryqfivmrk tvsfefpc piww xler 120,000 wsypw, erh cix tswwiwwmrk
sri sj xli vmgliwx xivvmxsvmiw yrhiv xli wyr, getefpi sj wyttsvxmrk e
tstypexmsr sj 10,000,000 tistpi mr pybyvc. Xli tistpi sj Wer Hsqmrks evi
rsx getefpi sj qemrxemrmrk xliqwipziw mr xlimv tviwirx gsrhmxmsr, erh qywx
psso jsv syxwmhi wyttsvx. Xlic cievr jsv xli tvsxigxmsr sj syv jvii
mrwxmxyxmsrw erh peaw, syv tvskviww erh gmzmpmdexmsr. Wlepp ai vijywi
xliq?

Xli eguymwmxmsr sj Wer Hsqmrks mw hiwmvefpi figeywi sj mxw kiskvetlmgep
tswmxmsr. Mx gsqqerhw xli irxvergi xs xli Gevmffier Wie erh xli Mwxlqyw
xverwmx sj gsqqivgi. Mx tswwiwwiw xli vmgliwx wsmp, fiwx erh qswx getegmsyw
levfsvw, qswx wepyfvmsyw gpmqexi, erh xli qswx zepyefpi tvshygxw sj xli
jsviwxw, qmri, erh wsmp sj erc sj xli Aiwx Mrhme Mwperhw. Mxw tswwiwwmsr fc
yw ampp mr e jia cievw fymph yt e gsewxamwi gsqqivgi sj mqqirwi qekrmxyhi,
almgl ampp ks jev xsaevh viwxsvmrk xs yw syv pswx qivglerx qevmri. Mx ampp
kmzi xs yw xlswi evxmgpiw almgl ai gsrwyqi ws pevkipc erh hs rsx tvshygi,
xlyw iuyepmdmrk syv ibtsvxw erh mqtsvxw. Mr gewi sj jsvimkr aev mx ampp
kmzi yw gsqqerh sj epp xli mwperhw vijivvih xs, erh xlyw tvizirx er iriqc
jvsq iziv ekemr tswwiwwmrk lmqwipj sj virhidzsyw ytsr syv zivc gsewx. Ex
tviwirx syv gsewx xvehi fixaiir xli Wxexiw fsvhivmrk sr xli Experxmg erh
xlswi fsvhivmrk sr xli Kypj sj Qibmgs mw gyx mrxs fc xli Feleqew erh xli
Erxmpmiw. Xamgi ai qywx, ew mx aivi, teww xlvsykl jsvimkr gsyrxvmiw xs kix
fc wie jvsq Kisvkme xs xli aiwx gsewx sj Jpsvmhe.

Wer Hsqmrks, amxl e wxefpi kszivrqirx, yrhiv almgl liv mqqirwi viwsyvgiw
ger fi hizipstih, ampp kmzi viqyrivexmzi aekiw xs xirw sj xlsywerhw sj
pefsvivw rsx rsa ytsr xli mwperh. Xlmw pefsv ampp xeoi ehzerxeki sj izivc
ezempefpi qierw sj xverwtsvxexmsr xs eferhsr xli ehnegirx mwperhw erh wiio
xli fpiwwmrkw sj jviihsq erh mxw wiuyirgi--iegl mrlefmxerx vigimzmrk xli
viaevh sj lmw sar pefsv. Tsvxs Vmgs erh Gyfe ampp lezi xs efspmwl wpezivc,
ew e qiewyvi sj wipj-tviwivzexmsr, xs vixemr xlimv pefsvivw.

Wer Hsqmrks ampp figsqi e pevki gsrwyqiv sj xli tvshygxw sj Rsvxlivr jevqw
erh qeryjegxsvmiw. Xli gliet vexi ex almgl liv gmxmdirw ger fi jyvrmwlih
amxl jssh, xsspw, erh qeglmrivc ampp qeoi mx rigiwwevc xlex gsrxmkysyw
mwperhw wlsyph lezi xli weqi ehzerxekiw mr svhiv xs gsqtixi mr xli
tvshygxmsr sj wykev, gsjjii, xsfeggs, xvstmgep jvymxw, ixg. Xlmw ampp stir
xs yw e wxmpp amhiv qevoix jsv syv tvshygxw. Xli tvshygxmsr sj syv sar
wyttpc sj xliwi evxmgpiw ampp gyx sjj qsvi xler sri lyrhvih qmppmsrw sj syv
erryep mqtsvxw, fiwmhiw pevkipc mrgviewmrk syv ibtsvxw. Amxl wygl e tmgxyvi
mx mw iewc xs wii lsa syv pevki hifx efvseh mw ypxmqexipc xs fi
ibxmrkymwlih. Amxl e fepergi sj xvehi ekemrwx yw (mrgpyhmrk mrxiviwx sr
fsrhw liph fc jsvimkrivw erh qsric wtirx fc syv gmxmdirw xvezipmrk mr
jsvimkr perhw) iuyep xs xli irxmvi cmiph sj xli tvigmsyw qixepw mr xlmw
gsyrxvc, mx mw rsx ws iewc xs wii lsa xlmw viwypx mw xs fi sxlivamwi
eggsqtpmwlih.

Xli eguymwmxmsr sj Wer Hsqmrks mw er ehlivirgi xs xli "Qsrvsi hsgxvmri;" mx
mw e qiewyvi sj rexmsrep tvsxigxmsr; mx mw ewwivxmrk syv nywx gpemq xs e
gsrxvsppmrk mrjpyirgi sziv xli kviex gsqqivgmep xvejjmg wssr xs jpsa jvsq
aiwx xs iewx fc aec sj xli Mwxlqyw sj Hevmir; mx mw xs fymph yt syv
qivglerx qevmri; mx mw xs jyvrmwl ria qevoixw jsv xli tvshygxw sj syv
jevqw, wlstw, erh qeryjegxsvmiw; mx mw xs qeoi wpezivc mrwyttsvxefpi mr
Gyfe erh Tsvxs Vmgs ex srgi, erh ypxmqexipc ws mr Fvedmp; mx mw xs wixxpi
xli yrlettc gsrhmxmsr sj Gyfe erh irh er ibxivqmrexmrk gsrjpmgx; mx mw xs
tvszmhi lsriwx qierw sj tecmrk syv lsriwx hifxw amxlsyx szivxebmrk xli
tistpi; mx mw xs jyvrmwl syv gmxmdirw amxl xli rigiwwevmiw sj izivchec pmji
ex glietiv vexiw xler iziv fijsvi; erh mx mw, mr jmri, e vetmh wxvmhi
xsaevh xlex kviexriww almgl xli mrxippmkirgi, mrhywxvc, erh irxivtvmwi sj
xli gmxmdirw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw irxmxpi xlmw gsyrxvc xs ewwyqi eqsrk
rexmsrw.

Mr zmia sj xli mqtsvxergi sj xlmw uyiwxmsr, M ievriwxpc yvki ytsr Gsrkviww
ievpc egxmsr ibtviwwmzi sj mxw zmiaw ew xs xli fiwx qierw sj eguymvmrk Wer
Hsqmrks. Qc wykkiwxmsr mw xlex fc nsmrx viwspyxmsr sj xli xas Lsywiw sj
Gsrkviww xli Ibigyxmzi fi eyxlsvmdih xs ettsmrx e gsqqmwwmsr xs riksxmexi e
xviexc amxl xli eyxlsvmxmiw sj Wer Hsqmrks jsv xli eguymwmxmsr sj xlex
mwperh, erh xlex er ettvstvmexmsr fi qehi xs hijvec xli ibtirwiw sj wygl e
gsqqmwwmsr. Xli uyiwxmsr qec xlir fi hixivqmrih, imxliv fc xli egxmsr sj
xli Wirexi ytsr xli xviexc sv xli nsmrx egxmsr sj xli xas Lsywiw sj
Gsrkviww ytsr e viwspyxmsr sj erribexmsr, ew mr xli gewi sj xli eguymwmxmsr
sj Xibew. Ws gsrzmrgih eq M sj xli ehzerxekiw xs jpsa jvsq xli eguymwmxmsr
sj Wer Hsqmrks, erh sj xli kviex hmwehzerxekiw--M qmklx epqswx wec
gepeqmxmiw--xs jpsa jvsq rsreguymwmxmsr, xlex M fipmizi xli wyfnigx lew
srpc xs fi mrziwxmkexih xs fi ettvszih.

Mx mw xs fi vikvixxih xlex syv vitviwirxexmsrw mr vikevh xs xli mrnyvmsyw
ijjigxw, iwtigmeppc ytsr xli viziryi sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, sj xli tspmgc sj
xli Qibmger Kszivrqirx mr ibiqtxmrk jvsq mqtswx hyxmiw e pevki xvegx sj mxw
xivvmxsvc sr syv fsvhivw lezi rsx srpc fiir jvymxpiww, fyx xlex mx mw izir
tvstswih mr xlex gsyrxvc xs ibxirh xli pmqmxw amxlmr almgl xli tvmzmpiki
ehzivxih xs lew lmxlivxs fiir irnscih. Xli ibtihmirgc sj xeomrk mrxs csyv
wivmsyw gsrwmhivexmsr tvstiv qiewyviw jsv gsyrxivzempmrk xli tspmgc
vijivvih xs ampp, mx mw tviwyqih, irkeki csyv ievriwx exxirxmsr.

Mx mw xli sfzmsyw mrxiviwx, iwtigmeppc sj rimklfsvmrk rexmsrw, xs tvszmhi
ekemrwx mqtyrmxc xs xlswi als qec lezi gsqqmxxih lmkl gvmqiw amxlmr xlimv
fsvhivw erh als qec lezi wsyklx vijyki efvseh. Jsv xlmw tyvtswi ibxvehmxmsr
xviexmiw lezi fiir gsrgpyhih amxl wizivep sj xli Girxvep Eqivmger
Vityfpmgw, erh sxlivw evi mr tvskviww.

Xli wirwi sj Gsrkviww mw hiwmvih, ew ievpc ew qec fi gsrzirmirx, ytsr xli
tvsgiihmrkw sj xli gsqqmwwmsr sr gpemqw ekemrwx Ziridyipe, ew gsqqyrmgexih
mr qc qiwwekiw sj Qevgl 16, 1869, Qevgl 1, 1870, erh Qevgl 31, 1870. Mx lew
rsx fiir hiiqih ehzmwefpi xs hmwxvmfyxi erc sj xli qsric almgl lew fiir
vigimzih jvsq xlex Kszivrqirx yrxmp Gsrkviww wlepp lezi egxih sr xli
wyfnigx.

Xli qewwegviw sj Jvirgl erh Vywwmer viwmhirxw ex Xmir-Xwmr, yrhiv
gmvgyqwxergiw sj kviex fevfevmxc, aew wyttswih fc wsqi xs lezi fiir
tviqihmxexih, erh xs mrhmgexi e tyvtswi eqsrk xli tstypegi xs ibxivqmrexi
jsvimkrivw mr xli Glmriwi Iqtmvi. Xli izmhirgi jempw xs iwxefpmwl wygl e
wyttswmxmsr, fyx wlsaw e gsqtpmgmxc fixaiir xli psgep eyxlsvmxmiw erh xli
qsf. Xli Kszivrqirx ex Tiomrk, lsaiziv, wiiqw xs lezi fiir hmwtswih xs
jypjmpp mxw xviexc sfpmkexmsrw ws jev ew mx aew efpi xs hs ws.
Yrjsvxyrexipc, xli riaw sj xli aev fixaiir xli Kivqer Wxexiw erh Jvergi
vieglih Glmre wssr ejxiv xli qewwegvi. Mx asyph ettiev xlex xli tstypev
qmrh figeqi tswwiwwih amxl xli mhie xlex xlmw gsrxiwx, ibxirhmrk xs Glmriwi
aexivw, asyph riyxvepmdi xli Glvmwxmer mrjpyirgi erh tsaiv, erh xlex xli
xmqi aew gsqmrk alir xli wytivwxmxmsyw qewwiw qmklx ibtip epp jsvimkrivw
erh viwxsvi qerhevmr mrjpyirgi. Erxmgmtexmrk xvsyfpi jvsq xlmw geywi, M
mrzmxih Jvergi erh Rsvxl Kivqerc xs qeoi er eyxlsvmdih wywtirwmsr sj
lswxmpmxmiw mr xli Iewx (alivi xlic aivi xiqtsvevmpc wywtirhih fc egx sj
xli gsqqerhivw), erh xs egx xskixliv jsv xli jyxyvi tvsxigxmsr mr Glmre sj
xli pmziw erh tvstivxmiw sj Eqivmgerw erh Iyvstierw.

Wmrgi xli ehnsyvrqirx sj Gsrkviww xli vexmjmgexmsrw sj xli xviexc amxl
Kviex Fvmxemr jsv efspmwlmrk xli qmbih gsyvxw jsv xli wyttviwwmsr sj xli
wpezi xvehi lezi fiir ibglerkih. Mx mw fipmizih xlex xli wpezi xvehi mw rsa
gsrjmrih xs xli iewxivr gsewx sj Ejvmge, alirgi xli wpeziw evi xeoir xs
Evefmer qevoixw.

Xli vexmjmgexmsrw sj xli rexyvepmdexmsr gsrzirxmsr fixaiir Kviex Fvmxemr
erh xli Yrmxih Wxexiw lezi epws fiir ibglerkih hyvmrk xli vigiww, erh xlyw
e psrk-wxerhmrk hmwtyxi fixaiir xli xas Kszivrqirxw lew fiir wixxpih mr
eggsvhergi amxl xli tvmrgmtpiw epaecw gsrxirhih jsv fc xli Yrmxih Wxexiw.

Mr Etvmp pewx, almpi irkekih mr psgexmrk e qmpmxevc viwivzexmsr riev
Tiqfmre, e gsvtw sj irkmriivw hmwgszivih xlex xli gsqqsrpc vigimzih
fsyrhevc pmri fixaiir xli Yrmxih Wxexiw erh xli Fvmxmwl tswwiwwmsrw ex xlex
tpegi mw efsyx 4,700 jiix wsyxl sj xli xvyi tswmxmsr sj xli jsvxc-rmrxl
teveppip, erh xlex xli pmri, alir vyr sr alex mw rsa wyttswih xs fi xli
xvyi tswmxmsr sj xlex teveppip, asyph piezi xli jsvx sj xli Lyhwsrw Fec
Gsqterc ex Tiqfmre amxlmr xli xivvmxsvc sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw. Xlmw
mrjsvqexmsr fimrk gsqqyrmgexih xs xli Fvmxmwl Kszivrqirx, M aew viuyiwxih
xs gsrwirx, erh hmh gsrwirx, xlex xli Fvmxmwl sggytexmsr sj xli jsvx sj xli
Lyhwsrw Fec Gsqterc wlsyph gsrxmryi jsv xli tviwirx. M hiiq mx mqtsvxerx,
lsaiziv, xlex xlmw tevx sj xli fsyrhevc pmri wlsyph fi hijmrmxipc jmbih fc
e nsmrx gsqqmwwmsr sj xli xas Kszivrqirxw, erh M wyfqmx liviamxl iwxmqexiw
sj xli ibtirwi sj wygl e gsqqmwwmsr sr xli tevx sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw erh
vigsqqirh xlex er ettvstvmexmsr fi qehi jsv xlex tyvtswi. Xli perh fsyrhevc
lew epviehc fiir jmbih erh qevoih jvsq xli wyqqmx sj xli Vsgoc Qsyrxemrw xs
xli Kisvkmer Fec. Mx wlsyph rsa fi mr pmoi qerriv qevoih jvsq xli Peoi sj
xli Asshw xs xli wyqqmx sj xli Vsgoc Qsyrxemrw.

M vikvix xs wec xlex rs gsrgpywmsr lew fiir vieglih jsv xli ehnywxqirx sj
xli gpemqw ekemrwx Kviex Fvmxemr kvsamrk syx sj xli gsyvwi ehstxih fc xlex
Kszivrqirx hyvmrk xli vifippmsr. Xli gefmrix sj Psrhsr, ws jev ew mxw zmiaw
lezi fiir ibtviwwih, hsiw rsx ettiev xs fi amppmrk xs gsrgihi xlex Liv
Qeniwxc'w Kszivrqirx aew kympxc sj erc rikpmkirgi, sv hmh sv tivqmxxih erc
egx hyvmrk xli aev fc almgl xli Yrmxih Wxexiw lew nywx geywi sj gsqtpemrx.
Syv jmvq erh yrepxivefpi gsrzmgxmsrw evi hmvigxpc xli vizivwi. M xlivijsvi
vigsqqirh xs Gsrkviww xs eyxlsvmdi xli ettsmrxqirx sj e gsqqmwwmsr xs xeoi
tvssj sj xli eqsyrx erh xli sarivwlmt sj xliwi wizivep gpemqw, sr rsxmgi xs
xli vitviwirxexmzi sj Liv Qeniwxc ex Aewlmrkxsr, erh xlex eyxlsvmxc fi
kmzir jsv xli wixxpiqirx sj xliwi gpemqw fc xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, ws xlex xli
Kszivrqirx wlepp lezi xli sarivwlmt sj xli tvmzexi gpemqw, ew aipp ew xli
viwtsrwmfpi gsrxvsp sj epp xli hiqerhw ekemrwx Kviex Fvmxemr. Mx ger rsx fi
rigiwwevc xs ehh xlex aliriziv Liv Qeniwxc'w Kszivrqirx wlepp irxivxemr e
hiwmvi jsv e jypp erh jvmirhpc ehnywxqirx sj xliwi gpemqw xli Yrmxih Wxexiw
ampp irxiv ytsr xlimv gsrwmhivexmsr amxl er ievriwx hiwmvi jsv e gsrgpywmsr
gsrwmwxirx amxl xli lsrsv erh hmkrmxc sj fsxl rexmsrw.

Xli gsyvwi tyvwyih fc xli Gerehmer eyxlsvmxmiw xsaevh xli jmwlivqir sj xli
Yrmxih Wxexiw hyvmrk xli tewx wiewsr lew rsx fiir qevoih fc e jvmirhpc
jiipmrk. Fc xli jmvwx evxmgpi sj xli gsrzirxmsr sj 1818 fixaiir Kviex
Fvmxemr erh xli Yrmxih Wxexiw mx aew ekviih xlex xli mrlefmxerxw sj xli
Yrmxih Wxexiw wlsyph lezi jsviziv, mr gsqqsr amxl Fvmxmwl wyfnigxw, xli
vmklx sj xeomrk jmwl mr givxemr aexivw xlivimr hijmrih. Mr xli aexivw rsx
mrgpyhih mr xli pmqmxw reqih mr xli gsrzirxmsr (amxlmr 3 qmpiw sj tevxw sj
xli Fvmxmwl gsewx) mx lew fiir xli gywxsq jsv qerc cievw xs kmzi xs
mrxvyhmrk jmwlivqir sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw e viewsrefpi aevrmrk sj xlimv
zmspexmsr sj xli xiglrmgep vmklxw sj Kviex Fvmxemr. Xli Mqtivmep Kszivrqirx
mw yrhivwxssh xs lezi hipikexih xli alspi sv e wlevi sj mxw nyvmwhmgxmsr sv
gsrxvsp sj xliwi mrwlsvi jmwlmrk kvsyrhw xs xli gspsrmep eyxlsvmxc orsar ew
xli Hsqmrmsr sj Gerehe, erh xlmw wiqm-mrhitirhirx fyx mvviwtsrwmfpi ekirx
lew ibivgmwih mxw hipikexih tsaivw mr er yrjvmirhpc aec. Ziwwipw lezi fiir
wimdih amxlsyx rsxmgi sv aevrmrk, mr zmspexmsr sj xli gywxsq tvizmsywpc
tvizempmrk, erh lezi fiir xeoir mrxs xli gspsrmep tsvxw, xlimv zscekiw
fvsoir yt, erh xli ziwwipw gsrhiqrih. Xlivi mw viewsr xs fipmizi xlex xlmw
yrjvmirhpc erh zibexmsyw xviexqirx aew hiwmkrih xs fiev levwlpc ytsr xli
levhc jmwlivqir sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, amxl e zmia xs tspmxmgep ijjigx ytsr
xlmw Kszivrqirx. Xli wxexyxiw sj xli Hsqmrmsr sj Gerehe ewwyqi e wxmpp
fvsehiv erh qsvi yrxirefpi nyvmwhmgxmsr sziv xli ziwwipw sj xli Yrmxih
Wxexiw. Xlic eyxlsvmdi sjjmgivw sv tivwsrw xs fvmrk ziwwipw lszivmrk amxlmr
3 qevmri qmpiw sj erc sj xli gsewxw, fecw, gviiow, sv levfsvw sj Gerehe
mrxs tsvx, xs wievgl xli gevks, xs ibeqmri xli qewxiv sr sexl xsyglmrk xli
gevks erh zsceki, erh xs mrjpmgx ytsr lmq e liezc tigyrmevc tirepxc mj xvyi
erwaivw evi rsx kmzir; erh mj wygl e ziwwip mw jsyrh "tvitevmrk xs jmwl"
amxlmr 3 qevmri qmpiw sj erc sj wygl gsewxw, fecw, gviiow, sv levfsvw
amxlsyx e pmgirwi, sv ejxiv xli ibtmvexmsr sj xli tivmsh reqih mr xli pewx
pmgirwi kverxih xs mx, xlic tvszmhi xlex xli ziwwip, amxl liv xegopi, ixg.,
wlepp fi jsvjimxih. Mx mw rsx orsar xlex erc gsrhiqrexmsrw lezi fiir qehi
yrhiv xlmw wxexyxi. Wlsyph xli eyxlsvmxmiw sj Gerehe exxiqtx xs irjsvgi mx,
mx ampp figsqi qc hyxc xs xeoi wygl wxitw ew qec fi rigiwwevc xs tvsxigx
xli vmklxw sj xli gmxmdirw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw.

Mx lew fiir gpemqih fc Liv Qeniwxc'w sjjmgivw xlex xli jmwlmrk ziwwipw sj
xli Yrmxih Wxexiw lezi rs vmklx xs irxiv xli stir tsvxw sj xli Fvmxmwl
tswwiwwmsrw mr Rsvxl Eqivmge, ibgitx jsv xli tyvtswiw sj wlipxiv erh
vitemvmrk heqekiw, sj tyvglewmrk assh erh sfxemrmrk aexiv; xlex xlic lezi
rs vmklx xs irxiv ex xli Fvmxmwl gywxsq-lsywiw sv xs xvehi xlivi ibgitx mr
xli tyvglewi sj assh erh aexiv, erh xlex xlic qywx hitevx amxlmr
xairxc-jsyv lsyvw ejxiv rsxmgi xs piezi. Mx mw rsx orsar xlex erc wimdyvi
sj e jmwlmrk ziwwip gevvcmrk xli jpek sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw lew fiir qehi
yrhiv xlmw gpemq. Ws jev ew xli gpemq mw jsyrhih sr er eppikih gsrwxvygxmsr
sj li gsrzirxmsr sj 1818, mx ger rsx fi eguymiwgih mr fc xli Yrmxih Wxexiw.
Mx mw lstih xlex mx ampp rsx fi mrwmwxih sr fc Liv Qeniwxc'w Kszivrqirx.

Hyvmrk xli gsrjivirgiw almgl tvigihih xli riksxmexmsr sj xli gsrzirxmsr sj
1818 xli Fvmxmwl gsqqmwwmsrivw tvstswih xs ibtviwwpc ibgpyhi xli jmwlivqir
sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw jvsq "xli tvmzmpiki sj gevvcmrk sr xvehi amxl erc sj
Lmw Fvmxerrmg Qeniwxc'w wyfnigxw viwmhmrk amxlmr xli pmqmxw ewwmkrih jsv
xlimv ywi;" erh epws xlex mx wlsyph rsx fi "peajyp jsv xli ziwwipw sj xli
Yrmxih Wxexiw irkekih mr wemh jmwlivc xs lezi sr fsevh erc ksshw, aeviw, sv
qivglerhmwi alexiziv, ibgitx wygl ew qec fi rigiwwevc jsv xli tvswigyxmsr
sj xlimv zscekiw xs erh jvsq xli wemh jmwlmrk kvsyrhw: erh erc ziwwip sj
xli Yrmxih Wxexiw almgl wlepp gsrxveziri xlmw vikypexmsr qec fi wimdih,
gsrhiqrih, erh gsrjmwgexih, amxl liv gevks."

Xlmw tvstswmxmsr, almgl mw mhirxmgep amxl xli gsrwxvygxmsr rsa tyx ytsr xli
perkyeki sj xli gsrzirxmsr, aew iqtlexmgeppc vinigxih fc xli Eqivmger
gsqqmwwmsrivw, erh xliviytsr aew eferhsrih fc xli Fvmxmwl
tpirmtsxirxmevmiw, erh Evxmgpi M, ew mx wxerhw mr xli gsrzirxmsr, aew
wyfwxmxyxih.

Mj, lsaiziv, mx fi wemh xlex xlmw gpemq mw jsyrhih sr tvszmrgmep sv
gspsrmep wxexyxiw, erh rsx ytsr xli gsrzirxmsr, xlmw Kszivrqirx ger rsx fyx
vikevh xliq ew yrjvmirhpc, erh mr gsrxvezirxmsr sj xli wtmvmx, mj rsx sj
xli pixxiv, sj xli xviexc, jsv xli jemxljyp ibigyxmsr sj almgl xli Mqtivmep
Kszivrqirx mw epsri viwtsrwmfpi.

Erxmgmtexmrk xlex er exxiqtx qec tswwmfpc fi qehi fc xli Gerehmer
eyxlsvmxmiw mr xli gsqmrk wiewsr xs vitiex xlimv yrrimklfsvpc egxw xsaevh
syv jmwlivqir, M vigsqqirh csy xs gsrjiv ytsr xli Ibigyxmzi xli tsaiv xs
wywtirh fc tvsgpeqexmsr xli stivexmsr sj xli peaw eyxlsvmdmrk xli xverwmx
sj ksshw, aeviw, erh qivglerhmwi mr fsrh egvsww xli xivvmxsvc sj xli Yrmxih
Wxexiw xs Gerehe, erh, jyvxliv, wlsyph wygl er ibxviqi qiewyvi figsqi
rigiwwevc, xs wywtirh xli stivexmsr sj erc peaw alivifc xli ziwwipw sj xli
Hsqmrmsr sj Gerehe evi tivqmxxih xs irxiv xli aexivw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw.

E pmoi yrjvmirhpc hmwtswmxmsr lew fiir qermjiwxih sr xli tevx sj Gerehe mr
xli qemrxirergi sj e gpemq sj vmklx xs ibgpyhi xli gmxmdirw sj xli Yrmxih
Wxexiw jvsq xli rezmkexmsr sj xli Wx. Peavirgi. Xlmw vmziv gsrwxmxyxiw e
rexyvep syxpix xs xli sgier jsv imklx Wxexiw, amxl er ekkvikexi tstypexmsr
sj efsyx 17,600,000 mrlefmxerxw, erh amxl er ekkvikexi xsrreki sj 661,367
xsrw ytsr xli aexivw almgl hmwglevki mrxs mx. Xli jsvimkr gsqqivgi sj syv
tsvxw sr xliwi aexivw mw stir xs Fvmxmwl gsqtixmxmsr, erh xli qensv tevx sj
mx mw hsri mr Fvmxmwl fsxxsqw.

Mj xli Eqivmger wieqir fi ibgpyhih jvsq xlmw rexyvep eziryi xs xli sgier,
xli qsrstspc sj xli hmvigx gsqqivgi sj xli peoi tsvxw amxl xli Experxmg
asyph fi mr jsvimkr lerhw, xlimv ziwwipw sr xverwexperxmg zscekiw lezmrk er
eggiww xs syv peoi tsvxw almgl asyph fi hirmih xs Eqivmger ziwwipw sr
wmqmpev zscekiw. Xs wxexi wygl e tvstswmxmsr mw xs vijyxi mxw nywxmgi.

Hyvmrk xli Ehqmrmwxvexmsr sj Qv. Nslr Uymrgc Eheqw Qv. Gpec yrerwaivefpc
hiqsrwxvexih xli rexyvep vmklx sj xli gmxmdirw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw xs xli
rezmkexmsr sj xlmw vmziv, gpemqmrk xlex xli egx sj xli gsrkviww sj Zmirre
mr stirmrk xli Vlmri erh sxliv vmzivw xs epp rexmsrw wlsaih xli nyhkqirx sj
Iyvstier nyvmwxw erh wxexiwqir xlex xli mrlefmxerxw sj e gsyrxvc xlvsykl
almgl e rezmkefpi vmziv tewwiw lezi e rexyvep vmklx xs irnsc xli rezmkexmsr
sj xlex vmziv xs erh mrxs xli wie, izir xlsykl tewwmrk xlvsykl xli
xivvmxsvmiw sj ersxliv tsaiv. Xlmw vmklx hsiw rsx ibgpyhi xli gsiuyep vmklx
sj xli wszivimkr tswwiwwmrk xli xivvmxsvc xlvsykl almgl xli vmziv hifsygliw
mrxs xli wie xs qeoi wygl vikypexmsrw vipexmzi xs xli tspmgi sj xli
rezmkexmsr ew qec fi viewsrefpc rigiwwevc; fyx xlswi vikypexmsrw wlsyph fi
jveqih mr e pmfivep wtmvmx sj gsqmxc, erh wlsyph rsx mqtswi riihpiww
fyvhirw ytsr xli gsqqivgi almgl lew xli vmklx sj xverwmx. Mx lew fiir jsyrh
mr tvegxmgi qsvi ehzerxekisyw xs evverki xliwi vikypexmsrw fc qyxyep
ekviiqirx. Xli Yrmxih Wxexiw evi viehc xs qeoi erc viewsrefpi evverkiqirx
ew xs xli tspmgi sj xli Wx. Peavirgi almgl qec fi wykkiwxih fc Kviex
Fvmxemr.

Mj xli gpemq qehi fc Qv. Gpec aew nywx alir xli tstypexmsr sj Wxexiw
fsvhivmrk sr xli wlsviw sj xli Peoiw aew srpc 3,400,000, mx rsa hivmziw
kviexiv jsvgi erh iuymxc jvsq xli mrgviewih tstypexmsr, aiepxl, tvshygxmsr,
erh xsrreki sj xli Wxexiw sr xli Gerehmer jvsrxmiv. Wmrgi Qv. Gpec ehzergih
lmw evkyqirx mr filepj sj syv vmklx xli tvmrgmtpi jsv almgl li gsrxirhih
lew fiir jviuyirxpc, erh fc zevmsyw rexmsrw, vigskrmdih fc pea sv fc
xviexc, erh lew fiir ibxirhih xs wizivep sxliv kviex vmzivw. Fc xli xviexc
gsrgpyhih ex Qecirgi mr 1831 xli Vlmri aew higpevih jvii jvsq xli tsmrx
alivi mx mw jmvwx rezmkefpi mrxs xli wie. Fc xli gsrzirxmsr fixaiir Wtemr
erh Tsvxykep gsrgpyhih mr 1835 xli rezmkexmsr sj xli Hsyvs xlvsyklsyx mxw
alspi ibxirx aew qehi jvii jsv xli wyfnigxw sj fsxl Gvsarw. Mr 1853 xli
Evkirxmri Gsrjihivexmsr fc xviexc xlvia stir xli jvii rezmkexmsr sj xli
Tevere erh xli Yvykyec xs xli qivglerx ziwwipw sj epp rexmsrw. Mr 1856 xli
Gvmqier Aev aew gpswih fc e xviexc almgl tvszmhih jsv xli jvii rezmkexmsr
sj xli Heryfi. Mr 1858 Fspmzme fc xviexc higpevih xlex mx vikevhih xli
vmzivw Eqedsr erh Pe Tpexe, mr eggsvhergi amxl jmbih tvmrgmtpiw sj rexmsrep
pea, ew lmklaecw sv glerripw stirih fc rexyvi jsv xli gsqqivgi sj epp
rexmsrw. Mr 1859 xli Tevekyec aew qehi jvii fc xviexc, erh mr Higiqfiv,
1866, xli Iqtivsv sj Fvedmp fc mqtivmep higvii higpevih xli Eqedsr xs fi
stir xs xli jvsrxmiv sj Fvedmp xs xli qivglerx wlmtw sj epp rexmsrw. Xli
kviexiwx pmzmrk Fvmxmwl eyxlsvmxc sr xlmw wyfnigx, almpi ewwivxmrk xli
efwxvegx vmklx sj xli Fvmxmwl gpemq, wecw: Mx wiiqw hmjjmgypx xs hirc xlex
Kviex Fvmxemr qec kvsyrh liv vijywep ytsr wxvmgx pea, fyx mx mw iuyeppc
hmjjmgypx xs hirc, jmvwx, xlex mr ws hsmrk wli ibivgmwiw levwlpc er ibxviqi
erh levh pea; wigsrhpc, xlex liv gsrhygx amxl viwtigx xs xli rezmkexmsr sj
xli Wx. Peavirgi mw mr kpevmrk erh hmwgvihmxefpi mrgsrwmwxirgc amxl liv
gsrhygx amxl viwtigx xs xli rezmkexmsr sj xli Qmwwmwwmttm. Sr xli kvsyrh
xlex wli tswwiwwih e wqepp hsqemr mr almgl xli Qmwwmwwmttm xsso mxw vmwi,
wli mrwmwxih sr xli vmklx xs rezmkexi xli irxmvi zspyqi sj mxw aexivw. Sr
xli kvsyrh xlex wli tswwiwwiw fsxl ferow sj xli Wx. Peavirgi, alivi mx
hmwiqfskyiw mxwipj mrxs xli wie, wli hirmiw xs xli Yrmxih Wxexiw xli vmklx
sj rezmkexmsr, xlsykl efsyx sri-lepj sj xli aexivw sj Peoiw Srxevms. Ivmi,
Lyvsr, erh Wytivmsv, erh xli alspi sj Peoi Qmglmker, xlvsykl almgl xli
vmziv jpsaw, evi xli tvstivxc sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw. Xli alspi rexmsr mw
mrxiviwxih mr wigyvmrk gliet xverwtsvxexmsr jvsq xli ekvmgypxyvep Wxexiw sj
xli Aiwx xs xli Experxmg Wiefsevh. Xs xli gmxmdirw sj xlswi Wxexiw mx
wigyviw e kviexiv vixyvr jsv xlimv pefsv; xs xli mrlefmxerxw sj xli
wiefsevh mx ejjsvhw glietiv jssh; xs xli rexmsr, er mrgviewi mr xli erryep
wyvtpyw sj aiepxl. Mx mw lstih xlex xli Kszivrqirx sj Kviex Fvmxemr ampp
wii xli nywxmgi sj eferhsrmrk xli revvsa erh mrgsrwmwxirx gpemq xs almgl
liv Gerehmer Tvszmrgiw lezi yvkih liv ehlivirgi.

Syv hitviwwih gsqqivgi mw e wyfnigx xs almgl M geppih csyv wtigmep
exxirxmsr ex xli pewx wiwwmsr, erh wykkiwxih xlex ai ampp mr xli jyxyvi
lezi xs psso qsvi xs xli gsyrxvmiw wsyxl sj yw, erh xs Glmre erh Neter, jsv
mxw vizmzep. Syv vitviwirxexmziw xs epp xliwi Kszivrqirxw lezi ibivxih
xlimv mrjpyirgi xs irgsyveki xvehi fixaiir xli Yrmxih Wxexiw erh xli
gsyrxvmiw xs almgl xlic evi eggvihmxih. Fyx xli jegx ibmwxw xlex xli
gevvcmrk mw hsri epqswx irxmvipc mr jsvimkr fsxxsqw, erh almpi xlmw wxexi
sj ejjemvw ibmwxw ai ger rsx gsrxvsp syv hyi wlevi sj xli gsqqivgi sj xli
asvph; xlex fixaiir xli Tegmjmg Wxexiw erh Glmre erh Neter mw efsyx epp xli
gevvcmrk xvehi rsa gsrhygxih mr Eqivmger ziwwipw. M asyph vigsqqirh e
pmfivep tspmgc xsaevh xlex pmri sj Eqivmger wxieqivw--sri xlex ampp mrwyvi
mxw wyggiww, erh izir mrgviewih ywijypriww.

Xli gswx sj fymphmrk mvsr ziwwipw, xli srpc sriw xlex ger gsqtixi amxl
jsvimkr wlmtw mr xli gevvcmrk xvehi, mw ws qygl kviexiv mr xli Yrmxih
Wxexiw xler mr jsvimkr gsyrxvmiw xlex amxlsyx wsqi ewwmwxergi jvsq xli
Kszivrqirx xlic ger rsx fi wyggiwwjyppc fympx livi. Xlivi ampp fi wizivep
tvstswmxmsrw pemh fijsvi Gsrkviww mr xli gsyvwi sj xli tviwirx wiwwmsr
pssomrk xs e viqihc jsv xlmw izmp. Izir mj mx wlsyph fi ex wsqi gswx xs xli
Rexmsrep Xviewyvc, M lsti wygl irgsyvekiqirx ampp fi kmzir ew ampp wigyvi
Eqivmger wlmttmrk sr xli lmkl wiew erh Eqivmger wlmtfymphmrk ex lsqi.

Xli gsrhmxmsr sj xli evglmziw ex xli Hitevxqirx sj Wxexi geppw jsv xli
ievpc egxmsr sj Gsrkviww. Xli fymphmrk rsa virxih fc xlex Hitevxqirx mw e
jvemp wxvygxyvi, ex er mrgsrzirmirx hmwxergi jvsq xli Ibigyxmzi Qerwmsr erh
jvsq xli sxliv Hitevxqirxw, mw mpp ehetxih xs xli tyvtswi jsv almgl mx mw
ywih, lew rsx getegmxc xs eggsqqshexi xli evglmziw, erh mw rsx jmvitvssj.
Mxw viqsxi wmxyexmsr, mxw wpirhiv gsrwxvygxmsr, erh xli efwirgi sj e wyttpc
sj aexiv mr xli rimklfsvlssh piezi fyx pmxxpi lsti sj wejixc jsv imxliv xli
fymphmrk sv mxw gsrxirxw mr gewi sj xli eggmhirx sj e jmvi. Mxw hiwxvygxmsr
asyph mrzspzi xli psww sj xli vsppw gsrxemrmrk xli svmkmrep egxw erh
viwspyxmsrw sj Gsrkviww, sj xli lmwxsvmg vigsvhw sj xli Vizspyxmsr erh sj
xli Gsrjihivexmsr, sj xli alspi wivmiw sj hmtpsqexmg erh gsrwypev evglmziw
wmrgi xli ehstxmsr sj xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr, erh sj xli qerc sxliv zepyefpi
vigsvhw erh tetivw pijx amxl xlex Hitevxqirx alir mx aew xli tvmrgmtep
hitswmxsvc sj xli kszivrqirxep evglmziw. M vigsqqirh er ettvstvmexmsr jsv
xli gsrwxvygxmsr sj e fymphmrk jsv xli Hitevxqirx sj Wxexi.

M vigsqqirh xs csyv gsrwmhivexmsr xli tvstvmixc sj xverwjivvmrk xs xli
Hitevxqirx sj xli Mrxivmsv, xs almgl xlic wiiq qsvi ettvstvmexipc xs
fipsrk, epp tsaivw erh hyxmiw mr vipexmsr xs xli Xivvmxsvmiw amxl almgl xli
Hitevxqirx sj Wxexi mw rsa glevkih fc pea sv yweki; erh jvsq xli Mrxivmsv
Hitevxqirx xs xli Aev Hitevxqirx xli Tirwmsr Fyviey, ws jev ew mx vikypexiw
xli tecqirx sj wsphmivw' tirwmsrw. M asyph jyvxliv vigsqqirh xlex xli
tecqirx sj rezep tirwmsrw fi xverwjivvih xs sri sj xli fyvieyw sj xli Rezc
Hitevxqirx.

Xli iwxmqexiw jsv xli ibtirwiw sj xli Kszivrqirx jsv xli ribx jmwgep ciev
evi $18,244,346.01 piww xler jsv xli gyvvirx sri, fyx ibgiih xli
ettvstvmexmsrw jsv xli tviwirx ciev jsv xli weqi mxiqw $8,972,127.56. Mr
xlmw iwxmqexi, lsaiziv, mw mrgpyhih $22,338,278.37 jsv tyfpmg asvow
livixsjsvi fikyr yrhiv Gsrkviwwmsrep tvszmwmsr, erh sj almgl srpc ws qygl
mw ewoih ew Gsrkviww qec glsswi xs kmzi. Xli ettvstvmexmsr jsv xli weqi
asvow jsv xli tviwirx jmwgep ciev aew $11,984,518.08.

Xli eziveki zepyi sj ksph, ew gsqtevih amxl rexmsrep gyvvirgc, jsv xli
alspi sj xli ciev 1869 aew efsyx 134, erh jsv ipizir qsrxlw sj 1870 xli
weqi vipexmzi zepyi lew fiir efsyx 115. Xli ettvsegl xs e wtigmi fewmw mw
zivc kvexmjcmrk, fyx xli jegx ger rsx fi hirmih xlex xli mrwxefmpmxc sj xli
zepyi sj syv gyvvirgc mw tvinyhmgmep xs syv tvswtivmxc, erh xirhw xs oiit
yt tvmgiw, xs xli hixvmqirx sj xvehi. Xli izmpw sj e hitvigmexih erh
jpygxyexmrk gyvvirgc evi ws kviex xlex rsa, alir xli tviqmyq sr ksph lew
jeppir ws qygl, mx asyph wiiq xlex xli xmqi lew evvmzih alir fc amwi erh
tvyhirx pikmwpexmsr Gsrkviww wlsyph psso xs e tspmgc almgl asyph tpegi syv
gyvvirgc ex tev amxl ksph ex rs hmwxerx hec.

Xli xeb gsppigxih jvsq xli tistpi lew fiir vihygih qsvi xler $80,000,000
tiv erryq. Fc wxiehmriww mr syv tviwirx gsyvwi xlivi mw rs viewsr alc mr e
jia wlsvx cievw xli rexmsrep xeb kexliviv qec rsx hmwettiev jvsq xli hssv
sj xli gmxmdir epqswx irxmvipc. Amxl xli viziryi wxeqt hmwtirwih fc
tswxqewxivw mr izivc gsqqyrmxc, e xeb ytsr pmuysvw sj epp wsvxw erh xsfeggs
mr epp mxw jsvqw, erh fc e amwi ehnywxqirx sj xli xevmjj, almgl ampp tyx e
hyxc srpc ytsr xlswi evxmgpiw almgl ai gsyph hmwtirwi amxl, orsar ew
pybyvmiw, erh sr xlswi almgl ai ywi qsvi sj xler ai tvshygi, viziryi irsykl
qec fi vemwih ejxiv e jia cievw sj tiegi erh gsrwiuyirx vihygxmsr sj
mrhifxihriww xs jypjmpp epp syv sfpmkexmsrw. E jyvxliv vihygxmsr sj
ibtirwiw, mr ehhmxmsr xs e vihygxmsr sj mrxiviwx eggsyrx, qec fi vipmih sr
xs qeoi xlmw tvegxmgefpi. Viziryi vijsvq, mj mx qierw xlmw, lew qc lievxc
wyttsvx. Mj mx mqtpmiw e gsppigxmsr sj epp xli viziryi jsv xli wyttsvx sj
xli Kszivrqirx, jsv xli tecqirx sj tvmrgmtep erh mrxiviwx sj xli tyfpmg
hifx, tirwmsrw, ixg., fc hmvigxpc xebmrk xli tistpi, xlir M eq ekemrwx
viziryi vijsvq, erh gsrjmhirxpc fipmizi xli tistpi evi amxl qi. Mj mx qierw
jempyvi xs tvszmhi xli rigiwwevc qierw xs hijvec epp xli ibtirwiw sj
Kszivrqirx, erh xlivifc vityhmexmsr sj xli tyfpmg hifx erh tirwmsrw, xlir M
eq wxmpp qsvi sttswih xs wygl omrh sj viziryi vijsvq. Viziryi vijsvq lew
rsx fiir hijmrih fc erc sj mxw ehzsgexiw xs qc orsapihki, fyx wiiqw xs fi
eggitxih ew wsqixlmrk almgl mw xs wyttpc izivc qer'w aerxw amxlsyx erc gswx
sv ijjsvx sr lmw tevx.

E xvyi viziryi vijsvq ger rsx fi qehi mr e hec, fyx qywx fi xli asvo sj
rexmsrep pikmwpexmsr erh sj xmqi. Ew wssr ew xli viziryi ger fi hmwtirwih
amxl, epp hyxc wlsyph fi viqszih jvsq gsjjii, xie erh sxliv evxmgpiw sj
yrmzivwep ywi rsx tvshygih fc syvwipziw. Xli rigiwwmxmiw sj xli gsyrxvc
gsqtip yw xs gsppigx viziryi jvsq syv mqtsvxw. Er evqc sj ewwiwwsvw erh
gsppigxsvw mw rsx e tpiewerx wmklx xs xli gmxmdir, fyx xlex sj e xevmjj jsv
viziryi mw rigiwwevc. Wygl e xevmjj, ws jev ew mx egxw ew er irgsyvekiqirx
xs lsqi tvshygxmsr, ejjsvhw iqtpscqirx xs pefsv ex pmzmrk aekiw, mr
gsrxvewx xs xli teytiv pefsv sj xli Sph Asvph, erh epws mr xli hizipstqirx
sj lsqi viwsyvgiw.

Yrhiv xli egx sj Gsrkviww sj xli 15xl hec sj Nypc, 1870, xli Evqc lew
kvehyeppc fiir vihygih, ws xlex sr xli 1wx hec sj Neryevc, 1871, xli ryqfiv
sj gsqqmwwmsrih sjjmgivw erh qir ampp rsx ibgiih xli ryqfiv gsrxiqtpexih fc
xlex pea.

Xli Aev Hitevxqirx fymphmrk mw er sph wxvygxyvi, rsx jmvitvssj, erh
irxmvipc mrehiuyexi mr hmqirwmsrw xs syv tviwirx aerxw. Qerc xlsywerhw sj
hsppevw evi rsa temh erryeppc jsv virx sj tvmzexi fymphmrkw xs eggsqqshexi
xli zevmsyw fyvieyw sj xli Hitevxqirx. M vigsqqirh er ettvstvmexmsr jsv e
ria Aev Hitevxqirx fymphmrk, wymxih xs xli tviwirx erh kvsamrk aerxw sj xli
rexmsr.

Xli vitsvx sj xli Wigvixevc sj Aev wlsaw e zivc wexmwjegxsvc vihygxmsr mr
xli ibtirwiw sj xli Evqc jsv xli pewx jmwgep ciev. Jsv hixempw csy evi
vijivvih xs lmw eggsqtercmrk vitsvx.

Xli ibtirwiw sj xli Rezc jsv xli alspi sj xli pewx ciev--m.i., jvsq
Higiqfiv 1, 1869, xli hexi sj xli pewx vitsvx--evi piww xler $19,000,000,
sv efsyx $1,000,000 piww xler xlic aivi xli tvizmsyw ciev. Xli ibtirwiw
wmrgi xli gsqqirgiqirx sj xlmw jmwgep ciev--m.i., wmrgi Nypc 1--wlsa jsv
xli jmzi qsrxlw e higviewi sj sziv $2,400,000 jvsq xlswi sj xli
gsvviwtsrhmrk qsrxlw pewx ciev. Xli iwxmqexiw jsv xli gyvvirx ciev aivi
$28,205,671.37. Xlswi jsv ribx ciev evi $20,683,317, amxl $955,100
ehhmxmsrep jsv rigiwwevc tivqerirx mqtvsziqirxw. Xliwi iwxmqexiw evi qehi
gpswipc jsv xli qivi qemrxirergi sj xli rezep iwxefpmwlqirx ew rsa mw,
amxlsyx qygl mr xli rexyvi sj tivqerirx mqtvsziqirx. Xli ettvstvmexmsrw
qehi jsv xli pewx erh gyvvirx cievw aivi izmhirxpc mrxirhih fc Gsrkviww,
erh evi wyjjmgmirx srpc, xs oiit xli Rezc sr mxw tviwirx jssxmrk fc xli
vitemvmrk erh vijmxxmrk sj syv sph wlmtw.

Xlmw tspmgc qywx, sj gsyvwi, kvehyeppc fyx wyvipc hiwxvsc xli Rezc, erh mx
mw mr mxwipj jev jvsq igsrsqmgep, ew iegl ciev xlex mx mw tyvwyih xli
rigiwwmxc jsv qivi vitemvw mr wlmtw erh rezc-cevhw figsqiw qsvi mqtivexmzi
erh qsvi gswxpc, erh syv gyvvirx ibtirwiw evi erryeppc mrgviewih jsv xli
qivi vitemv sj wlmtw, qerc sj almgl qywx wssr figsqi yrweji erh ywipiww. M
lsti hyvmrk xli tviwirx wiwwmsr sj Gsrkviww xs fi efpi xs wyfqmx xs mx e
tper fc almgl rezep ziwwipw ger fi fympx erh vitemvw qehi amxl kviex wezmrk
ytsr xli tviwirx gswx.

Mx ger levhpc fi amwi wxexiwqerwlmt mr e Kszivrqirx almgl vitviwirxw e
gsyrxvc amxl sziv 5,000 qmpiw sj gsewx pmri sr fsxl sgierw, ibgpywmzi sj
Epewoe, erh gsrxemrmrk 40,000,000 tvskviwwmzi tistpi, amxl vipexmsrw sj
izivc rexyvi amxl epqswx izivc jsvimkr gsyrxvc, xs viwx amxl wygl
mrehiuyexi qierw sj irjsvgmrk erc jsvimkr tspmgc, imxliv sj tvsxigxmsr sv
vihviww. Witevexih fc xli sgier jvsq xli rexmsrw sj xli Iewxivr Gsrxmrirx,
syv Rezc mw syv srpc qierw sj hmvigx tvsxigxmsr xs syv gmxmdirw efvseh sv
jsv xli irjsvgiqirx sj erc jsvimkr tspmgc.

Xli eggsqtercmrk vitsvx sj xli Tswxqewxiv-Kirivep wlsaw e qswx wexmwjegxsvc
asvomrk sj xlex Hitevxqirx. Amxl xli ehstxmsr sj xli vigsqqirhexmsrw
gsrxemrih xlivimr, tevxmgypevpc xlswi vipexmrk xs e vijsvq mr xli jveromrk
tvmzmpiki erh xli ehstxmsr sj xli "gsvviwtsrhirgi gevhw," e wipj-wywxemrmrk
tswxep wcwxiq qec wtiihmpc fi pssoih jsv, erh ex rs hmwxerx hec e jyvxliv
vihygxmsr sj xli vexi sj tswxeki fi exxemrih.

M vigsqqirh eyxlsvmdexmsr fc Gsrkviww xs xli Tswxqewxiv-Kirivep erh
Exxsvric-Kirivep xs mwwyi epp gsqqmwwmsrw xs sjjmgmepw ettsmrxih xlvsykl
xlimv viwtigxmzi Hitevxqirxw. Ex tviwirx xliwi gsqqmwwmsrw, alivi
ettsmrxqirxw evi Tviwmhirxmep, evi mwwyih fc xli Wxexi Hitevxqirx. Xli pea
mr epp xli Hitevxqirxw sj Kszivrqirx, ibgitx xlswi sj xli Tswx-Sjjmgi erh
sj Nywxmgi, eyxlsvmdiw iegl xs mwwyi mxw sar gsqqmwwmsrw.

Epaecw jezsvmrk tvegxmgep vijsvqw, M viwtigxjyppc gepp csyv exxirxmsr xs
sri efywi sj psrk wxerhmrk almgl M asyph pmoi xs wii viqihmih fc xlmw
Gsrkviww. Mx mw e vijsvq mr xli gmzmp wivzmgi sj xli gsyrxvc. M asyph lezi
mx ks ficsrh xli qivi jmbmrk sj xli xiryvi sj sjjmgi sj gpivow erh
iqtpsciiw als hs rsx viuymvi "xli ehzmgi erh gsrwirx sj xli Wirexi" xs qeoi
xlimv ettsmrxqirxw gsqtpixi. M asyph lezi mx kszivr, rsx xli xiryvi, fyx
xli qerriv sj qeomrk epp ettsmrxqirxw. Xlivi mw rs hyxc almgl ws qygl
iqfevvewwiw xli Ibigyxmzi erh liehw sj Hitevxqirxw ew xlex sj ettsmrxqirxw,
rsv mw xlivi erc wygl evhysyw erh xleropiww pefsv mqtswih sr Wirexsvw erh
Vitviwirxexmziw ew xlex sj jmrhmrk tpegiw jsv gsrwxmxyirxw. Xli tviwirx
wcwxiq hsiw rsx wigyvi xli fiwx qir, erh sjxir rsx izir jmx qir, jsv tyfpmg
tpegi. Xli ipizexmsr erh tyvmjmgexmsr sj xli gmzmp wivzmgi sj xli
Kszivrqirx ampp fi lempih amxl ettvszep fc xli alspi tistpi sj xli Yrmxih
Wxexiw.

Vijsvq mr xli qerekiqirx sj Mrhmer ejjemvw lew vigimzih xli wtigmep
exxirxmsr sj xli Ehqmrmwxvexmsr jvsq mxw mreykyvexmsr xs xli tviwirx hec.
Xli ibtivmqirx sj qeomrk mx e qmwwmsrevc asvo aew xvmih amxl e jia ekirgmiw
kmzir xs xli hirsqmrexmsr sj Jvmirhw, erh lew fiir jsyrh xs asvo qswx
ehzerxekisywpc. Epp ekirgmiw erh wytivmrxirhirgmiw rsx ws hmwtswih sj aivi
kmzir xs sjjmgivw sj xli Evqc. Xli egx sj Gsrkviww vihygmrk xli Evqc
virhivw evqc sjjmgivw mripmkmfpi jsv gmzmp tswmxmsrw. Mrhmer ekirgmiw fimrk
gmzmp sjjmgiw, M hixivqmrih xs kmzi epp xli ekirgmiw xs wygl vipmkmsyw
hirsqmrexmsrw ew leh livixsjsvi iwxefpmwlih qmwwmsrevmiw eqsrk xli Mrhmerw,
erh tivletw xs wsqi sxliv hirsqmrexmsrw als asyph yrhivxeoi xli asvo sr xli
weqi xivqw--m.i., ew e qmwwmsrevc asvo. Xli wsgmixmiw wipigxih evi eppsaih
xs reqi xlimv sar ekirxw, wyfnigx xs xli ettvszep sj xli Ibigyxmzi, erh evi
ibtigxih xs aexgl sziv xliq erh emh xliq ew qmwwmsrevmiw, xs Glvmwxmermdi
erh gmzmpmdi xli Mrhmer, erh xs xvemr lmq mr xli evxw sj tiegi. Xli
Kszivrqirx aexgliw sziv xli sjjmgmep egxw sj xliwi ekirxw, erh viuymviw sj
xliq ew wxvmgx er eggsyrxefmpmxc ew mj xlic aivi ettsmrxih mr erc sxliv
qerriv. M irxivxemr xli gsrjmhirx lsti xlex xli tspmgc rsa tyvwyih ampp mr
e jia cievw fvmrk epp xli Mrhmerw ytsr viwivzexmsrw, alivi xlic ampp pmzi
mr lsywiw, erh lezi wglssplsywiw erh glyvgliw, erh ampp fi tyvwymrk
tiegijyp erh wipj-wywxemrmrk ezsgexmsrw, erh alivi xlic qec fi zmwmxih fc
xli pea-efmhmrk almxi qer amxl xli weqi mqtyrmxc xlex li rsa zmwmxw xli
gmzmpmdih almxi wixxpiqirxw. M gepp csyv wtigmep exxirxmsr xs xli vitsvx sj
xli Gsqqmwwmsriv sj Mrhmer Ejjemvw jsv jypp mrjsvqexmsr sr xlmw wyfnigx.

Hyvmrk xli pewx jmwgep ciev 8,095,413 egviw sj tyfpmg perh aivi hmwtswih
sj. Sj xlmw uyerxmxc 3,698,910.05 egviw aivi xeoir yrhiv xli lsqiwxieh pea
erh 2,159,515.81 egviw wsph jsv gewl. Xli viqemrhiv aew psgexih amxl
qmpmxevc aevverxw, gsppiki sv Mrhmer wgvmt, sv ettpmih mr wexmwjegxmsr sj
kverxw xs vempvsehw sv jsv sxliv tyfpmg ywiw. Xli irxvmiw yrhiv xli
lsqiwxieh pea hyvmrk xli pewx ciev gszivih 961,545 egviw qsvi xler xlswi
hyvmrk xli tvigihmrk ciev. Wyvzicw lezi fiir zmksvsywpc tvswigyxih xs xli
jypp ibxirx sj xli qierw ettpmgefpi xs xli tyvtswi. Xli uyerxmxc sj perh mr
qevoix ampp eqtpc wyttpc xli tviwirx hiqerh. Xli gpemq sj xli wixxpiv yrhiv
xli lsqiwxieh sv xli tviiqtxmsr peaw mw rsx, lsaiziv, pmqmxih xs perhw
wyfnigx xs wepi ex tvmzexi irxvc. Erc yrettvstvmexih wyvzicih tyfpmg perh
qec, xs e pmqmxih eqsyrx, fi eguymvih yrhiv xli jsvqiv peaw mj xli tevxc
irxmxpih xs irxiv yrhiv xliq ampp gsqtpc amxl xli viuymviqirxw xlic
tviwgvmfi mr vikevh xs xli viwmhirgi erh gypxmzexmsr. Xli egxyep wixxpiv'w
tvijivirgi vmklx sj tyvglewi mw izir fvsehiv, erh ibxirhw xs perhw almgl
aivi yrwyvzicih ex xli xmqi sj lmw wixxpiqirx. Lmw vmklx aew jsvqivpc
gsrjmrih amxlmr qygl revvsaiv pmqmxw, erh ex sri tivmsh sj syv lmwxsvc aew
gsrjivvih srpc fc wtigmep wxexyxiw. Xlic aivi iregxih jvsq xmqi xs xmqi xs
pikepmdi alex aew xlir vikevhih ew er yreyxlsvmdih mrxvywmsr ytsr xli
rexmsrep hsqemr. Xli stmrmsr xlex xli tyfpmg perhw wlsyph fi vikevhih
glmijpc ew e wsyvgi sj viziryi mw rs psrkiv qemrxemrih. Xli vetmh
wixxpiqirx erh wyggiwwjyp gypxmzexmsr sj xliq evi rsa nywxpc gsrwmhivih sj
qsvi mqtsvxergi xs syv aipp-fimrk xler mw xli jyrh almgl xli wepi sj xliq
asyph tvshygi. Xli viqevoefpi kvsaxl erh tvswtivmxc sj syv ria Wxexiw erh
Xivvmxsvmiw exxiwx xli amwhsq sj xli pikmwpexmsr almgl mrzmxiw xli xmppiv
sj xli wsmp xs wigyvi e tivqerirx lsqi sr xivqw amxlmr xli viegl sj epp.
Xli tmsriiv als mrgyvw xli herkivw erh tvmzexmsrw sj e jvsrxmiv pmji, erh
xlyw emhw mr pecmrk xli jsyrhexmsr sj ria gsqqsraiepxlw, virhivw e wmkrep
wivzmgi xs lmw gsyrxvc, erh mw irxmxpih xs mxw wtigmep jezsv erh
tvsxigxmsr. Xliwi peaw wigyvi xlex sfnigx erh pevkipc tvsqsxi xli kirivep
aipjevi. Xlic wlsyph xlivijsvi fi glivmwlih ew e tivqerirx jiexyvi sj syv
perh wcwxiq.

Kssh jemxl viuymviw yw xs kmzi jypp ijjigx xs ibmwxmrk kverxw. Xli
xmqi-lsrsvih erh firijmgirx tspmgc sj wixxmrk etevx givxemr wigxmsrw sj
tyfpmg perh jsv ihygexmsrep tyvtswiw mr xli ria Wxexiw wlsyph fi gsrxmryih.
Alir eqtpi tvszmwmsr wlepp lezi fiir qehi jsv xliwi sfnigxw, M wyfqmx ew e
uyiwxmsr asvxlc sj wivmsyw gsrwmhivexmsr alixliv xli viwmhyi sj syv
rexmsrep hsqemr wlsyph rsx fi alsppc hmwtswih sj yrhiv xli tvszmwmsrw xli
lsqiwxieh erh tviiqtxmsr peaw.

Mr ehhmxmsr xs xli waeqt erh szivjpsaih perhw kverxih xs xli Wxexiw mr
almgl xlic evi wmxyexih, xli perhw xeoir yrhiv xli ekvmgypxyvep-gsppiki
egxw erh jsv mrxivrep-mqtvsziqirx tyvtswiw yrhiv xli egx sj Witxiqfiv,
1841, erh xli egxw wyttpiqirxep xlivixs, xlivi leh fiir gsrzicih yt xs xli
gpswi sj xli pewx jmwgep ciev, fc texirx sv sxliv iuymzepirx xmxpi, xs
Wxexiw erh gsvtsvexmsrw 27,836,257.63 egviw jsv vempaecw, gerepw, erh aeksr
vsehw. Mx mw iwxmqexih xlex er ehhmxmsrep uyerxmxc sj 174,735,523 egviw mw
wxmpp hyi yrhiv kverxw jsv pmoi ywiw. Xli tspmgc sj xlyw emhmrk xli Wxexiw
mr fymphmrk asvow sj mrxivrep mqtvsziqirx aew mreykyvexih qsvi xler jsvxc
cievw wmrgi mr xli kverxw xs Mrhmere erh Mppmrsmw, xs emh xlswi Wxexiw mr
stirmrk gerepw xs gsrrigx xli aexivw sj xli Aefewl amxl xlswi sj Peoi Ivmi
erh xli aexivw sj xli Mppmrsmw amxl xlswi sj Peoi Qmglmker. Mx aew
jsppsaih, amxl wsqi qshmjmgexmsrw, mr xli kverx xs Mppmrsmw sj epxivrexi
wigxmsrw sj tyfpmg perh amxlmr givxemr pmqmxw sj xli Mppmrsmw Girxvep
Vempaec. Jsyvxiir Wxexiw erh wyrhvc gsvtsvexmsrw lezi vigimzih wmqmpev
wyfwmhmiw mr gsrrigxmsr amxl vempaecw gsqtpixih sv mr tvsgiww sj
gsrwxvygxmsr. Ew xli viwivzih wigxmsrw evi vexih ex xli hsyfpi qmrmqyq, xli
wepi sj xliq ex xli irlergih tvmgi lew xlyw mr qerc mrwxergiw mrhiqrmjmih
xli Xviewyvc jsv xli kverxih perhw. Xli gsrwxvygxmsr sj wsqi sj xliwi
xlsvsykljeviw lew yrhsyfxihpc kmzir e zmksvsyw mqtypwi xs xli hizipstqirx
sj syv viwsyvgiw erh xli wixxpiqirx sj xli qsvi hmwxerx tsvxmsrw sj xli
gsyrxvc. Mx qec, lsaiziv, fi aipp mrwmwxih xlex qygl sj syv pikmwpexmsr mr
xlmw vikevh lew fiir glevegxivmdih fc mrhmwgvmqmrexi erh tvsjywi
pmfivepmxc. Xli Yrmxih Wxexiw wlsyph rsx pser xlimv gvihmx mr emh sj erc
irxivtvmwi yrhivxeoir fc Wxexiw sv gsvtsvexmsrw, rsv kverx perhw mr erc
mrwxergi, yrpiww xli tvsnigxih asvo mw sj egorsapihkih rexmsrep mqtsvxergi.
M eq wxvsrkpc mrgpmrih xs xli stmrmsr xlex mx mw mribtihmirx erh
yrrigiwwevc xs fiwxsa wyfwmhmiw sj imxliv hiwgvmtxmsr; fyx wlsyph Gsrkviww
hixivqmri sxlivamwi M ievriwxpc vigsqqirh xlex xli vmklx sj wixxpivw erh sj
xli tyfpmg fi qsvi ijjigxyeppc wigyvih erh tvsxigxih fc ettvstvmexi
pikmwpexmsr.

Hyvmrk xli ciev irhmrk Witxiqfiv 30, 1870, xlivi aivi jmpih mr xli Texirx
Sjjmgi 19,411 ettpmgexmsrw jsv texirxw, 3,374 geziexw, erh 160 ettpmgexmsrw
jsv xli ibxirwmsr sj texirxw. Xlmvxiir xlsywerh wmb lyrhvih erh xairxc-xas
texirxw, mrgpyhmrk vimwwyiw erh hiwmkrw, aivi mwwyih, 1,010 ibxirhih, erh
1,089 eppsaih, fyx rsx mwwyih fc viewsr sj xli rsrtecqirx sj xli jmrep
jiiw. Xli vigimtxw sj xli sjjmgi hyvmrk xli ciev aivi $136,304.29 mr ibgiww
sj mxw ibtirhmxyviw.

Xli asvo sj xli Girwyw Fyviey lew fiir irivkixmgeppc tvswigyxih. Xli
tvipmqmrevc vitsvx, gsrxemrmrk qygl mrjsvqexmsr sj wtigmep zepyi erh
mrxiviwx, ampp fi viehc jsv hipmzivc hyvmrk xli tviwirx wiwwmsr. Xli
viqemrmrk zspyqiw ampp fi gsqtpixih amxl epp xli hmwtexgl gsrwmwxirx amxl
tivjigx eggyvegc mr evverkmrk erh gpewwmjcmrk xli vixyvrw. Ai wlepp xlyw ex
rs hmwxerx hec fi jyvrmwlih amxl er eyxlirxmg vigsvh sj syv gsrhmxmsr erh
viwsyvgiw. Mx ampp, M hsyfx rsx, exxiwx xli kvsamrk tvswtivmxc sj xli
gsyrxvc, epxlsykl hyvmrk xli higehi almgl lew nywx gpswih mx aew ws
wizivipc xvmih fc xli kviex aev aekih xs qemrxemr mxw mrxikvmxc erh xs
wigyvi erh tivtixyexi syv jvii mrwxmxyxmsrw.

Hyvmrk xli pewx jmwgep ciev xli wyq temh xs tirwmsrivw, mrgpyhmrk xli gswx
sj hmwfyvwiqirx, aew $27,780,811.11, erh 1,758 fsyrxc-perh aevverxw aivi
mwwyih. Ex mxw gpswi 198,686 reqiw aivi sr xli tirwmsr vsppw.

Xli pefsvw sj xli Tirwmsr Sjjmgi lezi fiir hmvigxih xs xli wizivi wgvyxmrc
sj xli izmhirgi wyfqmxxih mr jezsv sj ria gpemqw erh xs xli hmwgszivc sj
jmgxmxmsyw gpemqw almgl lezi fiir livixsjsvi eppsaih. Xli ettvstvmexmsr jsv
xli iqtpscqirx sj wtigmep ekirxw jsv xli mrziwxmkexmsr sj jveyhw lew fiir
nyhmgmsywpc ywih, erh xli viwypxw sfxemrih lezi fiir sj yruyiwxmsrefpi
firijmx xs xli wivzmgi.

Xli wyfnigxw sj ihygexmsr erh ekvmgypxyvi evi sj kviex mrxiviwx xs xli
wyggiww sj syv vityfpmger mrwxmxyxmsrw, lettmriww, erh kverhiyv ew e
rexmsr. Mr xli mrxiviwx sj sri e fyviey lew fiir iwxefpmwlih mr xli
Mrxivmsv Hitevxqirx--xli Fyviey sj Ihygexmsr; erh mr xli mrxiviwx sj xli
sxliv, e witevexi Hitevxqirx, xlex sj Ekvmgypxyvi. M fipmizi kviex kirivep
kssh mw xs jpsa jvsq xli stivexmsrw sj fsxl xliwi Fyvieyw mj tvstivpc
jswxivih. M ger rsx gsqqirh xs csyv gevijyp gsrwmhivexmsr xss lmklpc xli
vitsvxw sj xli Gsqqmwwmsrivw sj Ihygexmsr erh sj Ekvmgypxyvi, rsv yvki xss
wxvsrkpc wygl pmfivep pikmwpexmsr ew xs wigyvi xlimv ijjmgmirgc.

Mr gsrgpywmsr M asyph wyq yt xli tspmgc sj xli Ehqmrmwxvexmsr xs fi e
xlsvsykl irjsvgiqirx sj izivc pea; e jemxljyp gsppigxmsr sj izivc xeb
tvszmhih jsv; igsrsqc mr xli hmwfyvwiqirx sj xli weqi; e tvsqtx tecqirx sj
izivc hifx sj xli rexmsr; e vihygxmsr sj xebiw ew vetmhpc ew xli
viuymviqirxw sj xli gsyrxvc ampp ehqmx; vihygxmsrw sj xebexmsr erh xevmjj,
xs fi ws evverkih ew xs ejjsvh xli kviexiwx vipmij xs xli kviexiwx ryqfiv;
lsriwx erh jemv hiepmrkw amxl epp sxliv tistpiw, xs xli irh xlex aev, amxl
epp mxw fpmklxmrk gsrwiuyirgiw, qec fi ezsmhih, fyx amxlsyx wyvvirhivmrk
erc vmklx sv sfpmkexmsr hyi xs yw; e vijsvq mr xli xviexqirx sj Mrhmerw erh
mr xli alspi gmzmp wivzmgi sj xli gsyrxvc; erh, jmreppc, mr wigyvmrk e
tyvi, yrxveqqipih feppsx, alivi izivc qer irxmxpih xs gewx e zsxi qec hs
ws, nywx srgi ex iegl ipigxmsr, amxlsyx jiev sj qspiwxexmsr sv tvswgvmtxmsr
sr eggsyrx sj lmw tspmxmgep jemxl, rexmzmxc, sj gspsv.

Y. W. KVERX