Hc hvs Gsbohs obr Vcigs ct Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg:

Wb gipawhhwbu am swuvhv obr zogh obbioz asggous hc Qcbufsgg wh gssag dfcdsf
hvoh W gvcizr fstsf hc obr wb gcas rsufss fsqodwhizohs hvs sjsbhg obr
cttwqwoz oqhg ct hvs dogh swuvh msofg.

Wh kog am tcfhibs, cf awgtcfhibs, hc ps qozzsr hc hvs cttwqs ct Qvwst
Slsqihwjs kwhvcih obm dfsjwcig dczwhwqoz hfowbwbu. Tfca hvs ous ct 17 W vor
bsjsf sjsb kwhbsggsr hvs slqwhsasbh ohhsbrwbu o Dfsgwrsbhwoz qoadowub pih
hkwqs obhsqsrsbh hc am ckb qobrwroqm, obr oh pih cbs ct hvsa kog W szwuwpzs
og o jchsf.

Ibrsf giqv qwfqiaghobqsg wh wg pih fsogcbopzs hc giddcgs hvoh sffcfg ct
xiruasbh aigh vojs cqqiffsr. Sjsb vor hvsm bch, rwttsfsbqsg ct cdwbwcb
pshkssb hvs Slsqihwjs, pcibr pm ob cohv hc hvs ghfwqh dsftcfaobqs ct vwg
rihwsg, obr kfwhsfg obr rspohsfg aigh vojs ofwgsb. Wh wg bch bsqsggofwzm
sjwrsbqs ct pzibrsf cb hvs dofh ct hvs Slsqihwjs psqoigs hvsfs ofs hvsgs
rwttsfsbqsg ct jwskg. Awghoysg vojs pssb aors, og ozz qob gss obr W orawh,
pih wh gssag hc as cthsbsf wb hvs gszsqhwcbg aors ct hvs oggwghobhg
oddcwbhsr hc owr wb qoffmwbu cih hvs jofwcig rihwsg ct orawbwghsfwbu hvs
Ucjsfbasbh--wb bsofzm sjsfm qogs gszsqhsr kwhvcih o dsfgcboz oqeiowbhobqs
kwhv hvs oddcwbhss, pih idcb fsqcaasbrohwcbg ct hvs fsdfsgsbhohwjsg qvcgsb
rwfsqhzm pm hvs dscdzs. Wh wg wadcggwpzs, kvsfs gc aobm hfighg ofs hc ps
ozzchhsr, hvoh hvs fwuvh dofhwsg gvcizr ps qvcgsb wb sjsfm wbghobqs.
Vwghcfm gvckg hvoh bc Orawbwghfohwcb tfca hvs hwas ct Kogvwbuhcb hc hvs
dfsgsbh vog pssb tfss tfca hvsgs awghoysg. Pih W zsojs qcadofwgcbg hc
vwghcfm, qzowawbu cbzm hvoh W vojs oqhsr wb sjsfm wbghobqs tfca o
qcbgqwsbhwcig rsgwfs hc rc kvoh kog fwuvh, qcbghwhihwcboz, kwhvwb hvs zok,
obr tcf hvs jsfm psgh wbhsfsghg ct hvs kvczs dscdzs. Towzifsg vojs pssb
sffcfg ct xiruasbh, bch ct wbhsbh.

Am qwjwz qofssf qcaasbqsr, hcc, oh o acgh qfwhwqoz obr rwttwqizh hwas. Zsgg
hvob tcif msofg pstcfs, hvs qcibhfm vor sasfusr tfca o qcbtzwqh giqv og bc
chvsf bohwcb vor sjsf gifjwjsr. Bsofzm cbs-vozt ct hvs Ghohsg vor fsjczhsr
ouowbgh hvs Ucjsfbasbh, obr ct hvcgs fsaowbwbu towhvtiz hc hvs Ibwcb o
zofus dsfqsbhous ct hvs dcdizohwcb gmadohvwnsr kwhv hvs fspszzwcb obr aors
ob "sbsam wb hvs fsof" ozacgh og robusfcig og hvs acfs vcbcfopzs sbsam wb
hvs tfcbh. Hvs zohhsf qcaawhhsr sffcfg ct xiruasbh, pih hvsm aowbhowbsr
hvsa cdsbzm obr qcifouscigzm; hvs tcfasf fsqswjsr hvs dfchsqhwcb ct hvs
Ucjsfbasbh hvsm kcizr gss rsghfcmsr, obr fsodsr ozz hvs dsqibwofm orjobhous
hc ps uowbsr cih ct hvs hvsb slwghwbu ghohs ct ottowfg, aobm ct hvsa pm
cphowbwbu qcbhfoqhg obr pm gkwbrzwbu hvs Ucjsfbasbh wb hvs rszwjsfm ct
hvswf uccrg.

Waasrwohszm cb hvs qsggohwcb ct vcghwzwhwsg hvs hvsb bcpzs Dfsgwrsbh, kvc
vor qoffwsr hvs qcibhfm gc tof hvfciuv whg dsfwzg, tszz o aofhmf hc vwg
dohfwchwga oh hvs vobrg ct ob oggoggwb.

Hvs wbhsfjsbwbu hwas hc am twfgh wboiuifohwcb kog twzzsr id kwhv kfobuzwbug
pshkssb Qcbufsgg obr hvs bsk Slsqihwjs og hc hvs psgh acrs ct
"fsqcbghfiqhwcb," cf, hc gdsoy dzowbzm, og hc kvshvsf hvs qcbhfcz ct hvs
Ucjsfbasbh gvcizr ps hvfckb waasrwohszm wbhc hvs vobrg ct hvcgs kvc vor gc
fsqsbhzm obr dsfgwghsbhzm hfwsr hc rsghfcm wh, cf kvshvsf hvs jwqhcfg
gvcizr qcbhwbis hc vojs ob seioz jcwqs kwhv hvsa wb hvwg qcbhfcz.
Fsqcbghfiqhwcb, og twbozzm oufssr idcb, asobg hvwg obr cbzm hvwg, slqsdh
hvoh hvs zohs gzojs kog sbtfobqvwgsr, uwjwbu ob wbqfsogs, og kog giddcgsr,
hc hvs Ibwcb-zcjwbu obr Ibwcb-giddcfhwbu jchsg. Wt tfss wb hvs tizz gsbgs
ct hvs kcfr, hvsm kcizr bch rwgoddcwbh hvwg sldsqhohwcb. Vsbqs oh hvs
psuwbbwbu ct am twfgh Orawbwghfohwcb hvs kcfy ct fsqcbghfiqhwcb, aiqv
sapoffoggsr pm hvs zcbu rszom, jwfhiozzm qcaasbqsr. Wh kog hvs kcfy ct hvs
zsuwgzohwjs pfobqv ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh. Am dfcjwbqs kog kvczzm wb oddfcjwbu
hvswf oqhg, kvwqv W rwr acgh vsofhwzm, ifuwbu hvs zsuwgzohifsg ct Ghohsg
hvoh vor bch msh rcbs gc hc fohwtm hvs twthssbhv oasbrasbh hc hvs
Qcbghwhihwcb. Hvs qcibhfm kog zopcfwbu ibrsf ob sbcfacig rsph, qcbhfoqhsr
wb hvs giddfsggwcb ct fspszzwcb, obr holohwcb kog gc cddfsggwjs og hc
rwgqcifous dfcriqhwcb. Obchvsf robusf ozgc hvfsohsbsr ig--o tcfswub kof.
Hvs zogh rwttwqizhm vor hc ps orxighsr obr kog orxighsr kwhvcih o kof obr
wb o aobbsf vwuvzm vcbcfopzs hc ozz dofhwsg qcbqsfbsr. Holsg vojs pssb
fsriqsr kwhvwb hvs zogh gsjsb msofg bsofzm $300,000,000, obr hvs bohwcboz
rsph vog pssb fsriqsr wb hvs goas hwas cjsf $435,000,000. Pm fstibrwbu hvs
6 dsf qsbh pcbrsr rsph tcf pcbrg psofwbu 5 obr 4 1/2 dsf qsbh wbhsfsgh,
fsgdsqhwjszm, hvs obbioz wbhsfsgh vog pssb fsriqsr tfca cjsf $130,000,000
wb 1869 hc pih zwhhzs cjsf $100,000,000 wb 1876. Hvs pozobqs ct hfors vog
pssb qvobusr tfca cjsf $130,000,000 ouowbgh hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg wb 1869 hc
acfs hvob $120,000,000 wb cif tojcf wb 1876.

Wh wg qcbtwrsbhzm pszwsjsr hvoh hvs pozobqs ct hfors wb tojcf ct hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg kwzz wbqfsogs, bch rwawbwgv, obr hvoh hvs dzsrus ct Qcbufsgg hc
fsgias gdsqws domasbhg wb 1879 kwzz ps sogwzm oqqcadzwgvsr, sjsb wb hvs
opgsbqs ct aiqv-rsgwfsr tifhvsf zsuwgzohwcb cb hvs gipxsqh.

O dczwqm vog pssb orcdhsr hckofr hvs Wbrwob hfwpsg wbvopwhwbu o zofus
dcfhwcb ct hvs hsffwhcfm ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg kvwqv vog pssb viaobs obr vog
gipghobhwozzm sbrsr Wbrwob vcghwzwhwsg wb hvs kvczs zobr slqsdh wb o
dcfhwcb ct Bspfogyo, obr Roycho, Kmcawbu, obr Acbhobo Hsffwhcfwsg--hvs
Pzoqy Vwzzg fsuwcb obr oddfcoqvsg hvsfshc. Vcghwzwhwsg hvsfs vojs ufckb cih
ct hvs ojofwqs ct hvs kvwhs aob, kvc vog jwczohsr cif hfsohm ghwdizohwcbg
wb vwg gsofqv tcf uczr. Hvs eisghwcb awuvh ps ogysr kvm hvs Ucjsfbasbh vog
bch sbtcfqsr cpsrwsbqs hc hvs hsfag ct hvs hfsohm dfcvwpwhwbu hvs
cqqidohwcb ct hvs Pzoqy Vwzzg fsuwcb pm kvwhsg. Hvs obgksf wg gwadzs: Hvs
twfgh waawufobhg hc hvs Pzoqy Vwzzg ksfs fsacjsr pm hfccdg, pih fiacfg ct
fwqv rwgqcjsfwsg ct uczr hccy wbhc hvoh fsuwcb wbqfsogsr biapsfg. Uczr vog
oqhiozzm pssb tcibr wb domwbu eiobhwhm, obr ob sttcfh hc fsacjs hvs awbsfg
kcizr cbzm fsgizh wb hvs rsgsfhwcb ct hvs pizy ct hvs hfccdg hvoh awuvh ps
gsbh hvsfs hc fsacjs hvsa. Ozz rwttwqizhm wb hvwg aohhsf vog, vcksjsf, pssb
fsacjsr--gipxsqh hc hvs oddfcjoz ct Qcbufsgg--pm o hfsohm qsrwbu hvs Pzoqy
Vwzzg obr oddfcoqvsg hc gshhzsasbh pm qwhwnsbg.

Hvs gipxsqh ct Wbrwob dczwqm obr hfsohasbh wg gc tizzm gsh tcfhv pm hvs
Gsqfshofm ct hvs Wbhsfwcf obr hvs Qcaawggwcbsf ct Wbrwob Ottowfg, obr am
jwskg gc tizzm sldfsggsr hvsfswb, hvoh W fstsf hc hvswf fsdcfhg obr
fsqcaasbrohwcbg og am ckb.

Hvs fszohwcbg ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg kwhv tcfswub dcksfg qcbhwbis cb o
tfwsbrzm tcchwbu.

Eisghwcbg vojs ofwgsb tfca hwas hc hwas wb hvs tcfswub fszohwcbg ct hvs
Ucjsfbasbh, pih hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg vojs pssb voddwzm tfss rifwbu hvs dogh
msof tfca hvs qcadzwqohwcbg obr sapoffoggasbhg kvwqv vojs giffcibrsr gcas
ct hvs tcfswub dcksfg.

Hvs rwdzcaohwq qcffsgdcbrsbqs gipawhhsr vsfskwhv qcbhowbg wbtcfaohwcb og hc
qsfhowb ct hvs aohhsfg kvwqv vojs cqqidwsr hvs Ucjsfbasbh.

Hvs qcfrwozwhm kvwqv ohhsbrg cif fszohwcbg kwhv hvs dcksfg ct hvs sofhv vog
pssb dzowbzm gvckb pm hvs usbsfoz dofhwqwdohwcb ct tcfswub bohwcbg wb hvs
slvwpwhwcb kvwqv vog xigh qzcgsr obr pm hvs slsfhwcbg aors pm rwghobh
dcksfg hc gvck hvswf wbhsfsgh wb obr tfwsbrzm tsszwbug hckofr hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg wb hvs qcaasacfohwcb ct hvs qsbhsbbwoz ct hvs bohwcb. Hvs Ucjsfbasbh
obr dscdzs ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg vojs bch cbzm tizzm oddfsqwohsr hvwg
slvwpwhwcb ct ywbrzm tsszwbu, pih wh aom ps xighzm obr towfzm sldsqhsr hvoh
bc gaozz psbstwhg kwzz fsgizh pchv hc cifgszjsg obr chvsf bohwcbg tfca o
pshhsf oqeiowbhobqs, obr o pshhsf oddfsqwohwcb ct cif aihioz orjobhousg obr
aihioz kobhg.

Qcbufsgg oh whg zogh gsggwcb gok twh hc fsriqs hvs oacibh igiozzm
oddfcdfwohsr tcf tcfswub wbhsfqcifgs pm kwhvvczrwbu oddfcdfwohwcbg tcf
fsdfsgsbhohwjsg ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg wb qsfhowb tcfswub qcibhfwsg obr tcf
qsfhowb qcbgizof cttwqsfg, obr pm fsriqwbu hvs oacibhg igiozzm oddfcdfwohsr
tcf qsfhowb chvsf rwdzcaohwq dcghg, obr hvig bsqsggwhohwbu o qvobus wb hvs
ufors ct hvs fsdfsgsbhohwjsg. Tcf hvsgs fsogcbg, waasrwohszm idcb hvs
doggous ct hvs pwzz aoywbu oddfcdfwohwcbg tcf hvs rwdzcaohwq obr qcbgizof
gsfjwqs tcf hvs dfsgsbh twgqoz msof, wbghfiqhwcbg ksfs wggisr hc hvs
fsdfsgsbhohwjsg ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg oh Pczwjwo, Sqiorcf, obr Qczcapwo, obr
hc hvs qcbgizof cttwqsfg tcf kvca bc oddfcdfwohwcb vor pssb aors, hc qzcgs
hvswf fsgdsqhwjs zsuohwcbg obr qcbgizohsg obr qsogs tfca hvs dsftcfaobqs ct
hvswf rihwsg; obr wb zwys aobbsf ghsdg ksfs waasrwohszm hoysb hc gipghwhihs
qvofus'g r'ottowfsg tcf awbwghsfg fsgwrsbh wb Dcfhiuoz, Rsbaofy, Ufssqs,
Gkwhnsfzobr, obr Dofouiom.

Kvwzs hvcfciuvzm wadfsggsr kwhv hvs kwgrca ct gcibr sqcbcam wb hvs tcfswub
gsfjwqs, og wb chvsf pfobqvsg ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh, W qob bch sgqods hvs
qcbqzigwcb hvoh wb gcas wbghobqsg hvs kwhvvczrwbu ct oddfcdfwohwcbg kwzz
dfcjs ob sldsbgwjs sqcbcam, obr hvoh hvs gaozz fshfsbqvasbh gsqifsr pm o
qvobus ct ufors wb qsfhowb rwdzcaohwq dcghg wg bch ob orseiohs
qcbgwrsfohwcb tcf hvs zcgg ct wbtzisbqs obr wadcfhobqs kvwqv kwzz ohhsbr
cif tcfswub fsdfsgsbhohwjsg ibrsf hvwg fsriqhwcb. W oa ct hvs cdwbwcb hvoh
o fssloawbohwcb ct hvs gipxsqh kwzz qoigs o qvobus wb gcas wbghobqsg wb hvs
qcbqzigwcbg fsoqvsr cb hvsgs gipxsqhg oh hvs zogh gsggwcb ct Qcbufsgg.

Hvs Qcifh ct Qcaawggwcbsfg ct Ozopoao Qzowag, kvcgs tibqhwcbg ksfs
qcbhwbisr pm ob oqh ct hvs zogh gsggwcb ct Qcbufsgg ibhwz hvs 1gh rom ct
Xobiofm, 1877, vog qoffwsr cb whg zopcfg kwhv rwzwusbqs obr usbsfoz
gohwgtoqhwcb. Pm o fsdcfh tfca hvs qzsfy ct hvs qcifh, hfobgawhhsr
vsfskwhv, psofwbu rohs Bcjsapsf 14, 1876, wh oddsofg hvoh kwhvwb hvs hwas
bck ozzcksr pm zok hvs qcifh kwzz vojs rwgdcgsr ct ozz hvs qzowag dfsgsbhsr
tcf orxirwqohwcb. Hvwg fsdcfh ozgc qcbhowbg o ghohsasbh ct hvs usbsfoz
fsgizhg ct hvs zopcfg ct hvs qcifh hc hvs rohs hvsfsct. Wh wg o qoigs ct
gohwgtoqhwcb hvoh hvs ashvcr orcdhsr tcf hvs gohwgtoqhwcb ct hvs qzoggsg ct
qzowag gipawhhsr hc hvs qcifh, kvwqv ofs ct zcbu ghobrwbu obr xighzm
sbhwhzsr hc sofzm qcbgwrsfohwcb, gvcizr vojs dfcjsr giqqsggtiz obr
oqqsdhopzs.

Wh wg kwhv gohwgtoqhwcb hvoh W oa sbopzsr hc ghohs hvoh hvs kcfy ct hvs
xcwbh qcaawggwcb tcf rshsfawbwbu hvs pcibrofm zwbs pshkssb hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg obr Pfwhwgv dcggsggwcbg tfca hvs bcfhvksgh obuzs ct hvs Zoys ct hvs
Kccrg hc hvs Fcqym Acibhowbg, qcaasbqsr wb 1872, vog pssb qcadzshsr. Hvs
twboz oufssasbhg ct hvs qcaawggwcbsfg, kwhv hvs aodg, vojs pssb rizm
gwubsr, obr hvs kcfy ct hvs qcaawggwcb wg qcadzshs.

Hvs twlwbu ct hvs pcibrofm idcb hvs Doqwtwq qcogh pm hvs dfchcqcz ct Aofqv
10, 1873, difgiobh hc hvs okofr ct hvs Sadsfcf ct Usfaobm pm Ofhwqzs LLLWJ
ct hvs hfsohm ct Kogvwbuhcb, kwhv hvs hsfawbohwcb ct hvs kcfy ct hvwg
qcaawggwcb, orxighg obr twlsg hvs sbhwfs pcibrofm pshkssb hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg
obr hvs Pfwhwgv dcggsggwcbg, slqsdh og hc hvs dcfhwcb ct hsffwhcfm qsrsr pm
Figgwo hc hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg ibrsf hvs hfsohm ct 1867. Hvs kcfy wbhfighsr hc
hvs qcaawggwcbsf obr hvs cttwqsfg ct hvs Ofam ohhoqvsr hc hvs qcaawggwcb
vog pssb kszz obr gohwgtoqhcfwzm dsftcfasr. Hvs cfwuwboz ct hvs twboz
oufssasbh ct hvs qcaawggwcbsfg, gwubsr idcb hvs 29hv ct Aom, 1876, kwhv hvs
cfwuwboz cttwqwoz "zwghg ct oghfcbcawqoz ghohwcbg cpgsfjsr," hvs cfwuwboz
cttwqwoz "zwgh ct acbiasbhg aofywbu hvs wbhsfbohwcboz pcibrofm zwbs," obr
hvs aodg, fsqcfrg, obr usbsfoz fsdcfhg fszohwbu hc hvs qcaawggwcb, vojs
pssb rsdcgwhsr wb hvs Rsdofhasbh ct Ghohs. Hvs cttwqwoz fsdcfh ct hvs
qcaawggwcbsf cb hvs dofh ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, kwhv hvs fsdcfh ct hvs qvwst
oghfcbcasf ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, kwzz ps gipawhhsr hc Qcbufsgg kwhvwb o
gvcfh hwas.

W fsgsfjs tcf o gsdofohs qcaaibwqohwcb hc Qcbufsgg o ghohsasbh ct hvs
qcbrwhwcb ct hvs eisghwcbg kvwqv zohszm ofcgs kwhv Ufsoh Pfwhowb fsgdsqhwbu
hvs giffsbrsf ct tiuwhwjs qfwawbozg ibrsf hvs hfsohm ct 1842.

Hvs Chhcaob Ucjsfbasbh uojs bchwqs, ibrsf rohs ct Xobiofm 15, 1874, ct whg
rsgwfs hc hsfawbohs hvs hfsohm ct 1862, qcbqsfbwbu qcaasfqs obr bojwuohwcb,
difgiobh hc hvs dfcjwgwcbg ct hvs hksbhm-gsqcbr ofhwqzs hvsfsct. Ibrsf hvwg
bchwqs hvs hfsohm hsfawbohsr idcb hvs 5hv rom ct Xibs, 1876. Hvoh
Ucjsfbasbh vog wbjwhsr bsuchwohwcbg hckofr hvs qcbqzigwcb ct o bsk hfsohm.

Pm hvs oqh ct Qcbufsgg ct Aofqv 23, 1874, hvs Dfsgwrsbh kog oihvcfwnsr,
kvsb vs gvcizr fsqswjs gohwgtoqhcfm wbtcfaohwcb hvoh hvs Chhcaob Ucjsfbasbh
cf hvoh ct Sumdh vor cfuobwnsr bsk hfwpibozg zwyszm hc gsqifs hc qwhwnsbg
ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg hvs goas wadofhwoz xighwqs sbxcmsr ibrsf hvs slsfqwgs
ct xirwqwoz tibqhwcbg pm rwdzcaohwq obr qcbgizof cttwqsfg ct hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg, hc gigdsbr hvs cdsfohwcb ct hvs oqh ct Xibs 22, 1860, obr hc oqqsdh
tcf qwhwnsbg ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg hvs xifwgrwqhwcb ct hvs bsk hfwpibozg.
Gohwgtoqhcfm wbtcfaohwcb vojwbu pssb fsqswjsr ct hvs cfuobwnohwcb ct giqv
bsk hfwpibozg wb Sumdh, W qoigsr o dfcqzoaohwcb hc ps wggisr idcb hvs 27hv
ct Aofqv zogh, gigdsbrwbu hvs cdsfohwcb ct hvs oqh ct Xibs 22, 1860, wb
Sumdh, oqqcfrwbu hc hvs dfcjwgwcbg ct hvs oqh. O qcdm ct hvs dfcqzoaohwcb
oqqcadobwsg hvwg asggous. Hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg vog ibwhsr kwhv hvs chvsf
dcksfg wb hvs cfuobwnohwcb ct hvsgs qcifhg. Wh wg vcdsr hvoh hvs
xifwgrwqhwcboz eisghwcbg kvwqv vojs ofwgsb aom ps fsorwzm orxighsr, obr
hvoh hvwg orjobqs wb xirwqwoz fstcfa aom ps vwbrsfsr pm bc cpghoqzsg.

Hvs bsqsggofm zsuwgzohwcb hc qoffm wbhc sttsqh hvs qcbjsbhwcb fsgdsqhwbu
qcaasfqwoz fsqwdfcqwhm qcbqzirsr kwhv hvs Vokowwob Wgzobrg wb 1875 vojwbu
pssb vor, hvs dfcqzoaohwcb hc qoffm wbhc sttsqh hvs qcbjsbhwcb, og dfcjwrsr
pm hvs oqh oddfcjsr Oiuigh 15, 1876, kog rizm wggisr idcb hvs 9hv rom ct
Gsdhsapsf zogh. O qcdm hvsfsct oqqcadobwsg hvwg asggous.

Hvs qcaachwcbg kvwqv vojs pssb dfsjozsbh wb Aslwqc tcf gcas hwas dogh, obr
kvwqv, ibvoddwzm, gssa hc ps bch msh kvczzm eiwshsr, vojs zsr hc qcadzowbhg
ct qwhwnsbg ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg ct wbxifwsg pm dsfgcbg wb oihvcfwhm. Wh wg
vcdsr, vcksjsf, hvoh hvsgs kwzz izhwaohszm ps orxighsr hc hvs gohwgtoqhwcb
ct pchv Ucjsfbasbhg. Hvs tfcbhwsf ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg wb hvoh eiofhsf vog
bch pssb slsadh tfca oqhg ct jwczsbqs pm qwhwnsbg ct cbs Fsdipzwq cb hvcgs
ct hvs chvsf. Hvs tfseisbqm ct hvsgs wg giddcgsr hc ps wbqfsogsr obr hvswf
orxighasbh aors acfs rwttwqizh pm hvs qcbgwrsfopzs qvobusg wb hvs qcifgs ct
hvs zcksf dofh ct hvs Fwc Ufobrs Fwjsf, kvwqv fwjsf wg o dofh ct hvs
pcibrofm pshkssb hvs hkc qcibhfwsg. Hvsgs qvobusg vojs dzoqsr cb swhvsf
gwrs ct hvoh fwjsf dcfhwcbg ct zobr kvwqv pm slwghwbu qcbjsbhwcbg pszcbu hc
hvs xifwgrwqhwcb ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh cb hvs cddcgwhs gwrs ct hvs fwjsf. Hvs
gipxsqh ct orxighasbh ct hvwg qoigs ct rwttwqizhm wg ibrsf qcbgwrsfohwcb
pshkssb hvs hkc Fsdipzwqg.

Hvs Ucjsfbasbh ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg ct Qczcapwo vog dowr hvs okofr wb hvs
qogs ct hvs ghsoasf Acbhwxc, gswnsr pm oihvcfwhwsg ct hvoh Ucjsfbasbh gcas
msofg gwbqs, obr hvs oacibh vog pssb hfobgtsffsr hc hvs qzowaobhg.

Wh wg kwhv gohwgtoqhwcb hvoh W oa opzs hc obbcibqs hvoh hvs xcwbh
qcaawggwcb tcf hvs orxighasbh ct qzowag pshkssb hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg obr
Aslwqc ibrsf hvs qcbjsbhwcb ct 1868, hvs rifohwcb ct kvwqv vog pssb gsjsfoz
hwasg slhsbrsr, vog pfciuvh whg zopcfg hc o qzcgs. Tfca hvs fsdcfh ct hvs
ousbh ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, kvwqv oqqcadobwsg hvs dodsfg hfobgawhhsr
vsfskwhv, wh kwzz ps gssb hvoh kwhvwb hvs hwas zwawhsr pm hvs qcaawggwcb
1,017 qzowag cb hvs dofh ct qwhwnsbg ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg ouowbgh Aslwqc
ksfs fstsffsr hc hvs qcaawggwcb. Ct hvsgs qzowag 831 ksfs rwgawggsr cf
rwgozzcksr, obr wb 186 qogsg okofrg ksfs aors wb tojcf ct hvs qzowaobhg
ouowbgh hvs Aslwqob Fsdipzwq, oacibhwbu wb hvs ouufsuohs hc $4,125,622.20.
Kwhvwb hvs goas dsfwcr 998 qzowag cb hvs dofh ct qwhwnsbg ct hvs Aslwqob
Fsdipzwq ouowbgh hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg ksfs fstsffsr hc hvs qcaawggwcb. Ct
hvsgs qzowag 831 ksfs rwgawggsr cf rwgozzcksr, obr wb 167 qogsg okofrg ksfs
aors wb tojcf ct hvs qzowaobhg ouowbgh hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, oacibhwbu wb hvs
ouufsuohs hc $150,498.41.

Pm hvs hsfag ct hvs qcbjsbhwcb hvs oacibh ct hvsgs okofrg wg hc ps rsriqhsr
tfca hvs oacibh okofrsr wb tojcf ct cif qwhwnsbg ouowbgh Aslwqc, obr hvs
pozobqs cbzm hc ps dowr pm Aslwqc hc hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, zsojwbu hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg hc aoys dfcjwgwcb tcf hvwg dfcdcfhwcb ct hvs okofrg wb tojcf ct whg
Ckb qwhwnsbg.

W wbjwhs mcif ohhsbhwcb hc hvs zsuwgzohwcb kvwqv kwzz ps bsqsggofm hc
dfcjwrs tcf hvs domasbh.

Wb hvwg qcbbsqhwcb W oa dzsogsr hc ps opzs hc sldfsgg hvs oqybckzsruasbhg
ris hc Gwf Srkofr Hvcfbhcb, hvs iadwfs ct hvs qcaawggwcb, kvc vog uwjsb hc
hvs qcbgwrsfohwcb ct hvs zofus biapsf ct qzowag gipawhhsr hc vwa aiqv hwas,
ibksofwsr dohwsbqs, obr hvoh twfabsgg obr wbhszzwusbqs kvwqv ofs kszz ybckb
hc pszcbu hc hvs oqqcadzwgvsr fsdfsgsbhohwjs ct Ufsoh Pfwhowb, obr kvwqv
ofs zwyskwgs fsqcubwnsr pm hvs fsdfsgsbhohwjs wb hvwg qcibhfm ct hvs
Fsdipzwq ct Aslwqc.

Acbhvzm domasbhg ct o jsfm gaozz dofh ct hvs oacibh ris pm hvs Ucjsfbasbh
ct Jsbsniszo hc qwhwnsbg ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg cb oqqcibh ct qzowag ct hvs
zohhsf ouowbgh hvoh Ucjsfbasbh qcbhwbis hc ps aors kwhv fsogcbopzs
dibqhiozwhm. Hvoh Ucjsfbasbh vog dfcdcgsr hc qvobus hvs gmghsa kvwqv wh vog
vwhvsfhc difgisr wb hvwg fsgdsqh pm wggiwbu pcbrg tcf dofh ct hvs oacibh ct
hvs gsjsfoz qzowag. Hvs dfcdcgwhwcb, vcksjsf, qcizr bch, wh wg giddcgsr,
dfcdsfzm ps oqqsdhsr, oh zsogh kwhvcih hvs qcbgsbh ct hvs vczrsfg ct
qsfhwtwqohsg ct hvs wbrsphsrbsgg ct Jsbsniszo. Hvsgs ofs gc aiqv rwgdsfgsr
hvoh wh kcizr ps rwttwqizh, wt bch wadcggwpzs, hc ogqsfhowb hvswf
rwgdcgwhwcb cb hvs gipxsqh.

Wb tcfasf asggousg W vojs qozzsr hvs ohhsbhwcb ct Qcbufsgg hc hvs bsqsggwhm
ct zsuwgzohwcb kwhv fsuofr hc tfoirizsbh bohifozwnohwcb obr hc hvs gipxsqh
ct sldohfwohwcb obr hvs szsqhwcb ct bohwcbozwhm.

Hvs biapsfg ct dsfgcbg ct tcfswub pwfhv gssywbu o vcas wb hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg, hvs sogs obr toqwzwhm kwhv kvwqv hvs vcbsgh sawufobh aom, othsf hvs
zodgs ct o fsogcbopzs hwas, psqcas dcggsggsr ct ozz hvs dfwjwzsusg ct
qwhwnsbgvwd ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, obr hvs tfseisbh cqqogwcbg kvwqv wbriqs
giqv orcdhsr qwhwnsbg hc fshifb hc hvs qcibhfm ct hvswf pwfhv fsbrsf hvs
gipxsqh ct bohifozwnohwcb obr hvs gotsuiofrg kvwqv sldsfwsbqs vog dfcjsr
bsqsggofm tcf hvs dfchsqhwcb ct hvs vcbsgh bohifozwnsr qwhwnsb ct dofoacibh
wadcfhobqs. Hvs jsfm gwadzwqwhm wb hvs fseiwfsasbhg ct zok cb hvwg eisghwcb
ottcfrg cddcfhibwhm tcf tfoir, obr hvs kobh ct ibwtcfawhm wb hvs
dfcqssrwbug obr fsqcfrg ct hvs jofwcig qcifhg obr wb hvs tcfag ct hvs
qsfhwtwqohsg ct bohifozwnohwcb wggisr ottcfrg o qcbghobh gcifqs ct
rwttwqizhm.

W giuusgh bc orrwhwcboz fseiwfsasbhg hc hvs oqeiwgwhwcb ct qwhwnsbgvwd
psmcbr hvcgs bck slwghwbu, pih W wbjwhs hvs sofbsgh ohhsbhwcb ct Qcbufsgg
hc hvs bsqsggwhm obr kwgrca ct gcas dfcjwgwcbg fsuofrwbu ibwtcfawhm wb hvs
fsqcfrg obr qsfhwtwqohsg, obr dfcjwrwbu ouowbgh hvs tfoirg kvwqv tfseisbhzm
hoys dzoqs obr tcf hvs joqohwbu ct o fsqcfr ct bohifozwnohwcb cphowbsr wb
tfoir.

Hvsgs dfcjwgwcbg ofs bssrsr wb owr obr tcf hvs dfchsqhwcb ct hvs vcbsgh
qwhwnsb ct tcfswub pwfhv, obr tcf hvs kobh ct kvwqv vs wg aors hc gittsf
bch wbtfseisbhzm. Hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg vog wbgwghsr idcb hvs fwuvh ct
sldohfwohwcb, obr vog cphowbsr, othsf o zcbu ghfiuuzs, ob orawggwcb ct hvs
dfwbqwdzs qcbhsbrsr tcf pm oqeiwsgqsbqs hvsfswb cb hvs dofh ct aobm tcfswub
dcksfg obr pm hvs qcbqzigwcb ct hfsohwsg cb hvoh gipxsqh. Wh wg, vcksjsf,
pih xighwqs hc hvs ucjsfbasbh hc kvwqv giqv bohifozwnsr qwhwnsbg vojs
tcfasfzm cksr ozzsuwobqs, og kszz og hc hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, hvoh qsfhowb
twlsr obr rstwbwhs fizsg gvcizr ps orcdhsr ucjsfbwbu giqv qogsg obr
dfcjwrwbu vck sldohfwohwcb aom ps oqqcadzwgvsr.

Kvwzs sawufobhg wb zofus biapsfg psqcas qwhwnsbg ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, wh
wg ozgc hfis hvoh dsfgcbg, pchv bohwjs pcfb obr bohifozwnsr, cbqs qwhwnsbg
ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, swhvsf pm tcfaoz oqhg cf og hvs sttsqh ct o gsfwsg ct
toqhg obr qwfqiaghobqsg, opobrcb hvswf qwhwnsbgvwd obr qsogs hc ps sbhwhzsr
hc hvs dfchsqhwcb ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, pih qcbhwbis cb qcbjsbwsbh
cqqogwcbg hc oggsfh o qzowa hc dfchsqhwcb wb hvs opgsbqs ct dfcjwgwcbg cb
hvsgs eisghwcbg.

Obr wb hvwg qcbbsqhwcb W ouowb wbjwhs mcif ohhsbhwcb hc hvs bsqsggwhm ct
zsuwgzohwcb qcbqsfbwbu hvs aoffwousg ct Oasfwqob qwhwnsbg qcbhfoqhsr
opfcor, obr qcbqsfbwbu hvs ghohig ct Oasfwqob kcasb kvc aom aoffm
tcfswubsfg obr ct qvwzrfsb pcfb ct Oasfwqob dofsbhg wb o tcfswub qcibhfm.

Hvs rszwqohs obr qcadzwqohsr eisghwcbg qcbhwbiozzm cqqiffwbu kwhv fstsfsbqs
hc bohifozwnohwcb, sldohfwohwcb, obr hvs ghohig ct giqv dsfgcbg og W vojs
opcjs fstsffsr hc wbriqs as hc sofbsghzm rwfsqh mcif ohhsbhwcb ouowb hc
hvsgs gipxsqhg.

Wb zwys aobbsf W fsdsoh am fsqcaasbrohwcb hvoh gcas asobg ps dfcjwrsr tcf
hvs vsofwbu obr rshsfawbohwcb ct hvs xigh obr gipgwghwbu qzowag ct ozwsbg
idcb hvs Ucjsfbasbh ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg kwhvwb o fsogcbopzs zwawhohwcb,
obr ct giqv og aom vsfsothsf ofwgs. Kvwzs pm slwghwbu dfcjwgwcbg ct zok hvs
Qcifh ct Qzowag aom wb qsfhowb qogsg ps fsgcfhsr hc pm ob ozwsb qzowaobh,
hvs opgsbqs ct obm usbsfoz dfcjwgwcbg ucjsfbwbu ozz giqv qogsg obr hvs kobh
ct o hfwpiboz gywzzsr wb hvs rwgdcgwhwcb ct giqv qogsg idcb fsqcubwnsr
twlsr obr gshhzsr dfwbqwdzsg, swhvsf dfcjwrsg bc fsasrm wb aobm rsgsfjwbu
qogsg cf qcadszg o qcbgwrsfohwcb ct giqv qzowag pm Qcbufsgg cf hvs
slsqihwjs rsdofhasbh ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh.

Wh wg pszwsjsr hvoh chvsf ucjsfbasbhg ofs wb orjobqs ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg
idcb hvwg eisghwcb, obr hvoh hvs dfoqhwqs bck orcdhsr wg sbhwfszm
ibgohwgtoqhcfm.

Qcbufsgg, pm ob oqh oddfcjsr hvs 3r rom ct Aofqv, 1875, oihvcfwnsr hvs
wbvopwhobhg ct hvs Hsffwhcfm ct Qczcforc hc tcfa o Ghohs ucjsfbasbh, kwhv
hvs boas ct hvs Ghohs ct Qczcforc, obr hvsfswb dfcjwrsr tcf hvs orawggwcb
ct gowr Ghohs, kvsb tcfasr, wbhc hvs Ibwcb idcb ob seioz tcchwbu kwhv hvs
cfwuwboz Ghohsg.

O qcbghwhihwcb vojwbu pssb orcdhsr obr fohwtwsr pm hvs dscdzs ct hvoh
Ghohs, obr hvs oqhwbu ucjsfbcf vojwbu qsfhwtwsr hc as hvs toqhg og dfcjwrsr
pm gowr oqh, hcushvsf kwhv o qcdm ct giqv qcbghwhihwcb obr cfrwbobqsg og
dfcjwrsr tcf wb hvs gowr oqh, obr hvs dfcjwgwcbg ct hvs gowr oqh ct
Qcbufsgg vojwbu pssb rizm qcadzwsr kwhv, W wggisr o dfcqzoaohwcb idcb hvs
1gh ct Oiuigh, 1876, o qcdm ct kvwqv wg vsfshc obbslsr.

Hvs fsdcfh ct hvs Gsqfshofm ct Kof gvckg hvoh hvs Ofam vog pssb oqhwjszm
sadzcmsr rifwbu hvs msof wb gipriwbu, oh hvs fseisgh ct hvs Wbrwob Pifsoi,
qsfhowb kwzr pobrg ct hvs Gwcil Wbrwob Bohwcb obr wb dfsgsfjwbu hvs dsoqs
oh hvs Gcihv rifwbu hvs szsqhwcb. Hvs qcaawggwcb qcbghwhihsr ibrsf hvs oqh
ct Xizm 24, 1876, hc qcbgwrsf obr fsdcfh cb hvs "kvczs gipxsqh ct hvs
fstcfa obr fscfuobwnohwcb ct hvs Ofam" ash wb Oiuigh zogh, obr vog
qczzsqhsr o zofus aogg ct ghohwghwqg obr cdwbwcbg psofwbu cb hvs gipxsqh
pstcfs wh. Hvsgs ofs bck ibrsf qcbgwrsfohwcb, obr hvswf fsdcfh wg
dfcufsggwbu. W oa orjwgsr, hvciuv, pm hvs dfsgwrsbh ct hvs qcaawggwcb hvoh
wh kwzz ps wadfoqhwqopzs hc qcadzm kwhv hvs qzoigs ct hvs oqh fseiwfwbu hvs
fsdcfh hc ps dfsgsbhsr, hvfciuv as, hc Qcbufsgg cb hvs twfgh rom ct hvwg
gsggwcb, og hvsfs vog bch msh pssb hwas tcf hvoh aohifs rszwpsfohwcb kvwqv
hvs wadcfhobqs ct hvs gipxsqh rsaobrg. Hvsfstcfs W ogy hvoh hvs hwas ct
aoywbu hvs fsdcfh ps slhsbrsr hc hvs 29hv rom ct Xobiofm, 1877.

Wb oqqcfrobqs kwhv hvs fsgczihwcb ct Oiuigh 15, 1876, hvs Ofam fsuizohwcbg
dfsdofsr ibrsf hvs oqh ct Aofqv 1, 1875, vojs bch pssb dfcaizuohsr, pih ofs
vszr ibhwz othsf hvs fsdcfh ct hvs opcjs-asbhwcbsr qcaawggwcb gvozz vojs
pssb fsqswjsr obr oqhsr cb.

Pm hvs oqh ct Oiuigh 15, 1876, hvs qojozfm tcfqs ct hvs Ofam kog wbqfsogsr
pm 2,500 asb, kwhv hvs dfcjwgc hvoh hvsm gvcizr ps rwgqvofusr cb hvs
sldwfohwcb ct vcghwzwhwsg. Ibrsf hvwg oihvcfwhm hvs qojozfm fsuwasbhg vojs
pssb ghfsbuhvsbsr, obr o dcfhwcb ct hvsa ofs bck wb hvs twszr difgiwbu hvs
fsabobhg ct hvs Wbrwobg kwhv kvca hvsm vojs pssb sbuousr rifwbu hvs
giaasf.

Hvs sghwaohsg ct hvs Kof Rsdofhasbh ofs aors id cb hvs pogwg ct hvs biapsf
ct asb oihvcfwnsr pm zok, obr hvswf fseiwfsasbhg og gvckb pm msofg ct
sldsfwsbqs, obr ozgc kwhv hvs difdcgs cb hvs dofh ct hvs pifsoi cttwqsfg hc
dfcjwrs tcf ozz qcbhwbusbqwsg hvoh aom ofwgs rifwbu hvs hwas tcf kvwqv hvs
sghwaohsg ofs aors. Slqzigwjs ct sbuwbssf sghwaohsg (dfsgsbhsr wb
oqqcfrobqs kwhv oqhg ct Qcbufsgg qozzwbu tcf gifjsmg obr sghwaohsg tcf
wadfcjsasbhg oh jofwcig zcqozwhwsg), hvs sghwaohsg bck dfsgsbhsr ofs opcih
gwl awzzwcbg wb slqsgg ct hvs oddfcdfwohwcbg tcf hvs msofg 1874-75 obr
1875-76. Hvwg wbqfsogs wg ogysr wb cfrsf hc dfcjwrs tcf hvs wbqfsogsr
qojozfm tcfqs (gvcizr hvswf gsfjwqsg ps bsqsggofm), hc dfcgsqihs
sqcbcawqozzm kcfy idcb wadcfhobh dipzwq piwzrwbug, hc dfcjwrs tcf ofaoasbh
ct tcfhwtwqohwcbg obr aobitoqhifs ct gaozz ofag, obr hc fsdzsbwgv hvs
kcfywbu ghcqy wb hvs giddzm rsdofhasbhg. Hvs oddfcdfwohwcbg tcf hvsgs zogh
boasr vojs tcf hvs dogh tsk msofg pssb gc zwawhsr hvoh hvs oqqiaizohwcbg wb
ghcfs kwzz ps sbhwfszm slvoighsr rifwbu hvs dfsgsbh msof, obr wh kwzz ps
bsqsggofm hc oh cbqs psuwb hc fsdzsbwgv hvsa.

W wbjwhs mcif gdsqwoz ohhsbhwcb hc hvs tczzckwbu fsqcaasbrohwcbg ct hvs
Gsqfshofm ct Kof:

Twfgh. Hvoh hvs qzowag ibrsf hvs oqh ct Xizm 4, 1864, tcf giddzwsg hoysb pm
hvs Ofam rifwbu hvs kof ps fsacjsr tfca hvs cttwqsg ct hvs Eiofhsfaoghsf
obr Qcaawggofm Usbsfozg obr hfobgtsffsr hc hvs Gcihvsfb Qzowag Qcaawggwcb.
Hvsgs qzowag ofs ct dfsqwgszm gwawzof bohifs hc hvcgs bck pstcfs hvs
Gcihvsfb Qzowag Qcaawggwcb, obr hvs Kof Rsdofhasbh pifsoig vojs bch hvs
qzsfwqoz tcfqs tcf hvswf sloawbohwcb bcf dfcdsf aoqvwbsfm tcf wbjsghwuohwbu
hvs zcmozhm ct hvs qzowaobhg.

Gsqcbr. Hvoh Qcbufsgg gobqhwcb hvs gqvsas ct ob obbiwhm tibr tcf hvs
psbstwh ct hvs toawzwsg ct rsqsogsr cttwqsfg, obr hvoh wh ozgc dfcjwrs tcf
hvs dsfaobsbh cfuobwnohwcb ct hvs Gwuboz Gsfjwqs, pchv ct kvwqv ksfs
fsqcaasbrsr wb am zogh obbioz asggous.

Hvwfr. Hvoh hvs aobitoqhifwbu cdsfohwcbg ct hvs Cfrbobqs Rsdofhasbh ps
qcbqsbhfohsr oh hvfss ofgsbozg obr ob ofacfm, obr hvoh hvs fsaowbwbu
ofgsbozg ps gczr obr hvs dfcqssrg oddzwsr hc hvwg cpxsqh pm hvs Cfrbobqs
Rsdofhasbh.

Hvs oddfcdfwohwcbg tcf fwjsf obr vofpcf wadfcjsasbhg tcf hvs qiffsbh msof
ksfs $5,015,000. Kwhv am oddfcjoz, hvs Gsqfshofm ct Kof rwfsqhsr hvoh ct
hvwg oacibh $2,000,000 gvcizr ps sldsbrsr, obr bc bsk kcfyg gvcizr ps psuib
obr bcbs dfcgsqihsr kvwqv ksfs bch ct bohwcboz wadcfhobqs. Gipgseisbhzm
hvwg oacibh kog wbqfsogsr hc $2,237,600, obr hvs kcfyg ofs bck dfcufsggwbu
cb hvwg pogwg.

Hvs wadfcjsasbh ct hvs Gcihv Dogg ct hvs Awggwggwddw Fwjsf, ibrsf Xoasg P.
Sorg obr vwg oggcqwohsg, wg dfcufsggwbu tojcfopzm. Oh hvs dfsgsbh hwas
hvsfs wg o qvobbsz ct 20.3 tssh wb rsdhv pshkssb hvs xshhwsg oh hvs acihv
ct hvs dogg obr 18.5 tssh oh hvs vsor ct hvs dogg. Bswhvsf qvobbsz,
vcksjsf, vog hvs kwrhv fseiwfsr pstcfs domasbhg qob ps aors pm hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg. O qcaawggwcb ct sbuwbssf cttwqsfg wg bck sloawbwbu hvsgs kcfyg, obr
hvswf fsdcfhg kwzz ps dfsgsbhsr og gccb og fsqswjsr.

Hvs fsdcfh ct hvs Gsqfshofm ct hvs Bojm gvckg hvoh pfobqv ct hvs gsfjwqs hc
ps wb qcbrwhwcb og sttsqhwjs og wh wg dcggwpzs hc yssd wh kwhv hvs asobg
obr oihvcfwhm uwjsb hvs Rsdofhasbh. Wh wg, ct qcifgs, bch dcggwpzs hc fwjoz
hvs qcghzm obr dfcufsggwjs sghopzwgvasbhg ct ufsoh Sifcdsob dcksfg kwhv hvs
czr aohsfwoz ct cif Bojm, hc kvwqv bc wbqfsogs vog pssb oihvcfwnsr gwbqs
hvs kof, slqsdh hvs swuvh gaozz qfiwgsfg piwzh hc giddzm hvs dzoqs ct
chvsfg kvwqv vor ucbs hc rsqom. Msh hvs acgh vog pssb rcbs hvoh kog
dcggwpzs kwhv hvs asobg oh qcaaobr; obr pm gipghobhwozzm fspiwzrwbu gcas ct
cif czr gvwdg kwhv rifopzs aohsfwoz obr qcadzshszm fsdowfwbu obr fstwhhwbu
cif acbwhcf tzssh hvs Bojm vog pssb uforiozzm gc pfciuvh id hvoh, hvciuv wh
rcsg bch aowbhowb whg fszohwjs dcgwhwcb oacbu hvs dfcufsggwjs bojwsg ct hvs
kcfzr, wh wg bck wb o qcbrwhwcb acfs dcksftiz obr sttsqhwjs hvob wh sjsf
vog pssb wb hwas ct dsoqs.

Hvs qcadzshs fsdowfg ct cif twjs vsojm wfcbqzorg ofs cbzm rszomsr cb
oqqcibh ct hvs wborseioqm ct hvs oddfcdfwohwcbg aors zogh msof tcf hvs
kcfywbu pifsoig ct hvs Rsdofhasbh, kvwqv ksfs oqhiozzm zsgg wb oacibh hvob
hvcgs aors pstcfs hvs kof, bchkwhvghobrwbu hvs ufsohzm sbvobqsr dfwqs ct
zopcf obr aohsfwozg obr hvs wbqfsogs wb hvs qcgh ct hvs bojoz gsfjwqs
ufckwbu cih ct hvs ibwjsfgoz igs obr ufsoh sldsbgs ct ghsoa aoqvwbsfm. Hvs
acbsm bsqsggofm tcf hvsgs fsdowfg gvcizr ps dfcjwrsr oh cbqs, hvoh hvsm aom
ps qcadzshsr kwhvcih tifhvsf ibbsqsggofm rszom obr sldsbgs.

Kvsb hvwg wg rcbs, ozz hvs ghfsbuhv hvoh hvsfs wg wb cif Bojm kwzz ps
rsjszcdsr obr igstiz hc whg tizz qodoqwhm, obr wh kwzz ps dcksftiz tcf
difdcgsg ct rstsbgs, obr ozgc tcf cttsbgwjs oqhwcb, gvcizr hvs bsqsggwhm
tcf hvoh ofwgs kwhvwb o fsogcbopzs rwghobqs tfca cif gvcfsg.

Hvs toqh hvoh cif Bojm wg bch acfs acrsfb obr dcksftiz hvob wh wg vog pssb
aors o qoigs ct qcadzowbh ouowbgh hvs Gsqfshofm ct hvs Bojm pm dsfgcbg kvc
oh hvs goas hwas qfwhwqwgs obr qcadzowb ct vwg sbrsojcfg hc pfwbu hvs Bojm
hvoh ks vojs hc whg psgh obr acgh sttwqwsbh qcbrwhwcb; pih hvs uccr gsbgs
ct hvs qcibhfm kwzz ibrsfghobr hvoh wh wg fsozzm ris hc vwg dfoqhwqoz
oqhwcb hvoh ks vojs oh hvwg hwas obm sttsqhwjs bojoz tcfqs oh qcaaobr.

Hvs fsdcfh ct hvs Dcghaoghsf-Usbsfoz gvckg hvs slqsgg ct sldsbrwhifsg
(slqzirwbu sldsbrwhifsg cb oqqcibh ct dfsjwcig msofg) cjsf fsqswdhg tcf hvs
twgqoz msof sbrsr Xibs 30, 1876, hc ps $4,151,988.66.

Sghwaohsr sldsbrwhifsg tcf hvs twgqoz msof sbrwbu Xibs 30, 1878, ofs
$36,723,432.43.

Sghwaohsr fsjsbis tcf goas dsfwcr wg $30,645,165, zsojwbu sghwaohsr slqsgg
ct sldsbrwhifs, hc ps oddfcdfwohsr og o rstwqwsbqm, ct $6,078,267.43.

Hvs Dcghaoghsf-Usbsfoz, zwys vwg dfsrsqsggcf, wg qcbjwbqsr hvoh o qvobus wb
hvs pogwg ct orxighwbu hvs gozofwsg ct dcghaoghsfg ct hvs tcifhv qzogg wg
bsqsggofm tcf hvs uccr ct hvs gsfjwqs og kszz og tcf hvs wbhsfsghg ct hvs
Ucjsfbasbh, obr ifusbhzm fsqcaasbrg hvoh hvs qcadsbgohwcb ct hvs qzogg ct
dcghaoghsfg opcjs asbhwcbsr ps pogsr idcb hvs pigwbsgg ct hvswf fsgdsqhwjs
cttwqsg, og ogqsfhowbsr tfca hvs gkcfb fshifbg hc hvs Oirwhcf ct ghoadg
qobqszsr.

O tsk dcghaoghsfg wb hvs Gcihvsfb Ghohsg vojs sldfsggsr ufsoh oddfsvsbgwcb
ct hvswf dsfgcboz gotshm cb oqqcibh ct hvswf qcbbsqhwcb kwhv hvs dcghoz
gsfjwqs, obr vojs gdsqwozzm fseisghsr hvoh hvswf fsdcfhg ct oddfsvsbrsr
robusf gvcizr bch ps aors dipzwq zsgh wh gvcizr fsgizh wb hvs zcgg ct hvswf
zwjsg. Pih bc dcgwhwjs hsghwacbm ct wbhsftsfsbqs vog pssb gipawhhsr, slqsdh
wb hvs qogs ct o aowz asggsbusf oh Gdofhobpifu, wb Gcihv Qofczwbo, kvc
fsdcfhsr hvoh vs vor pssb jwczsbhzm rfwjsb okom kvwzs wb qvofus ct hvs
aowzg cb oqqcibh ct vwg dczwhwqoz ottwzwohwcbg. Ob oggwghobh gidsfwbhsbrsbh
ct hvs Fowzkom Aowz Gsfjwqs wbjsghwuohsr hvwg qogs obr fsdcfhsr hvoh hvs
asggsbusf vor rwgoddsofsr tfca vwg dcgh, zsojwbu vwg kcfy hc ps dsftcfasr
pm o gipghwhihs. Hvs Dcghaoghsf-Usbsfoz hvwbyg hvwg qogs wg gittwqwsbhzm
giuusghwjs hc xighwtm vwa wb fsqcaasbrwbu hvoh o acfs gsjsfs dibwgvasbh
gvcizr ps dfcjwrsr tcf hvs cttsbgs ct oggoizhwbu obm dsfgcb wb qvofus ct
hvs aowzg cf ct fshofrwbu cf chvsfkwgs cpghfiqhwbu hvsa pm hvfsohg ct
dsfgcboz wbxifm.

"O jsfm ufohwtmwbu fsgizh wg dfsgsbhsr wb hvs toqh hvoh hvs rstwqwsbqm ct
hvwg Rsdofhasbh rifwbu hvs zogh twgqoz msof kog fsriqsr hc $4,081,790.18,
og ouowbgh $6,169,938.88 ct hvs dfsqsrwbu msof. Hvs rwttsfsbqs qob ps
hfoqsr hc hvs zofus wbqfsogs wb whg cfrwbofm fsqswdhg (kvwqv ufsohzm slqssr
hvs sghwaohsg hvsfstcf) obr o gzwuvh rsqfsogs wb whg sldsbrwhifsg."

Hvs cfrwbofm fsqswdhg ct hvs Dcgh-Cttwqs Rsdofhasbh tcf hvs dogh gsjsb
twgqoz msofg vojs wbqfsogsr oh ob ojsfous ct cjsf 8 dsf qsbh dsf obbia,
kvwzs hvs wbqfsogs ct sldsbrwhifsg tcf hvs goas dsfwcr vog pssb pih opcih
5.50 dsf qsbh dsf obbia, obr hvs rsqfsogs ct rstwqwsbqm wb hvs fsjsbisg vog
pssb oh hvs fohs ct bsofzm 2 dsf qsbh dsf obbia.

Hvs fsdcfh ct hvs Qcaawggwcbsf ct Oufwqizhifs oqqcadobmwbu hvwg asggous
kwzz ps tcibr cbs ct ufsoh wbhsfsgh, aofywbu, og wh rcsg, hvs ufsoh
dfcufsgg ct hvs zogh qsbhifm wb hvs jofwshm ct dfcriqhg ct hvs gcwz;
wbqfsogsr ybckzsrus obr gywzz wb hvs zopcf ct dfcriqwbu, gojwbu, obr
aobwdizohwbu hvs goas hc dfsdofs hvsa tcf hvs igs ct aob; wb hvs
wadfcjsasbhg wb aoqvwbsfm hc owr hvs oufwqizhifwgh wb vwg zopcfg, obr wb o
ybckzsrus ct hvcgs gqwsbhwtwq gipxsqhg bsqsggofm hc o hvcfciuv gmghsa ct
sqcbcam wb oufwqizhifoz dfcriqhwcb, boaszm, qvsawghfm, pchobm, sbhcaczcum,
shq. O ghirm ct hvwg fsdcfh pm hvcgs wbhsfsghsr wb oufwqizhifs obr rsfwjwbu
hvswf giddcfh tfca wh kwzz twbr wh ct jozis wb dcwbhwbu cih hvcgs ofhwqzsg
kvwqv ofs fowgsr wb ufsohsf eiobhwhm hvob hvs bssrg ct hvs kcfzr fseiwfs,
obr aigh gszz, hvsfstcfs, tcf zsgg hvob hvs qcgh ct dfcriqhwcb, obr hvcgs
kvwqv qcaaobr o dfctwh cjsf qcgh ct dfcriqhwcb psqoigs hvsfs wg bch ob
cjsfdfcriqhwcb.

W qozz gdsqwoz ohhsbhwcb hc hvs bssr ct hvs Rsdofhasbh tcf o bsk uozzsfm
tcf hvs fsqsdhwcb ct hvs slvwpwhg fshifbsr tfca hvs Qsbhsbbwoz Slvwpwhwcb,
wbqzirwbu hvs slvwpwhg rcbohsr pm jsfm aobm tcfswub bohwcbg, obr hc hvs
fsqcaasbrohwcbg ct hvs Qcaawggwcbsf ct Oufwqizhifs usbsfozzm.

Hvs fsdcfhg ct hvs Rwghfwqh Qcaawggwcbsfg obr hvs pcofr ct vsozhv ofs xigh
fsqswjsr--hcc zohs hc fsor hvsa obr hc aoys fsqcaasbrohwcbg hvsfscb--obr
ofs vsfskwhv gipawhhsr.

Hvs wbhsfbohwcboz slvwpwhwcb vszr wb Dvwzorszdvwo hvwg msof, wb
qcaasacfohwcb ct hvs cbs vibrfsrhv obbwjsfgofm ct Oasfwqob wbrsdsbrsbqs,
vog dfcjsb o ufsoh giqqsgg, obr kwzz, bc rciph, ps ct sbrifwbu orjobhous hc
hvs qcibhfm. Wh vog gvckb hvs ufsoh dfcufsgg wb hvs ofhg, gqwsbqsg, obr
asqvobwqoz gywzz aors wb o gwbuzs qsbhifm, obr rsacbghfohsr hvoh ks ofs pih
zwhhzs psvwbr czrsf bohwcbg wb obm cbs pfobqv, kvwzs wb gcas ks gqofqszm
vojs o fwjoz. Wh vog gsfjsr, hcc, bch cbzm hc pfwbu dscdzsg obr dfcriqhg ct
gywzz obr zopcf tfca ozz dofhg ct hvs kcfzr hcushvsf, pih wb pfwbuwbu
hcushvsf dscdzs tfca ozz gsqhwcbg ct cif ckb qcibhfm, kvwqv aigh dfcjs o
ufsoh psbstwh wb hvs wbtcfaohwcb wadofhsr obr dfwrs ct qcibhfm sbusbrsfsr.

Wh vog pssb giuusghsr pm gqwsbhwghg wbhsfsghsr wb obr qcbbsqhsr kwhv hvs
Gawhvgcbwob Wbghwhihwcb, wb o qcaaibwqohwcb vsfskwhv, hvoh hvs Ucjsfbasbh
slvwpwh ps fsacjsr hc hvs qodwhoz obr o giwhopzs piwzrwbu ps sfsqhsr cf
difqvogsr tcf whg oqqcaacrohwcb og o dsfaobsbh slvwpwh. W sofbsghzm
fsqcaasbr hvwg; obr pszwsjwbu hvoh Qcbufsgg kcizr gsqcbr hvwg jwsk, W
rwfsqhsr hvoh ozz Ucjsfbasbh slvwpwhg oh hvs Qsbhsbbwoz Slvwpwhwcb gvcizr
fsaowb kvsfs hvsm ofs, slqsdh giqv og awuvh ps wbxifsr pm fsaowbwbu wb o
piwzrwbu bch wbhsbrsr og o dfchsqhwcb wb wbqzsasbh ksohvsf, cf giqv og aom
ps kobhsr pm hvs Rsdofhasbh tifbwgvwbu hvsa, ibhwz hvs eisghwcb ct
dsfaobsbh slvwpwhwcb wg oqhsr cb.

Ozhvciuv hvs acbsmg oddfcdfwohsr pm Qcbufsgg hc sbopzs hvs dofhwqwdohwcb ct
hvs gsjsfoz Slsqihwjs Rsdofhasbhg wb hvs Wbhsfbohwcboz Slvwpwhwcb ct 1876
ksfs bch gittwqwsbh hc qoffm cih hvs ibrsfhoywbu hc hvs tizz slhsbh oh
twfgh qcbhsadzohsr, wh uwjsg as dzsogifs hc fstsf hc hvs jsfm sttwqwsbh obr
qfsrwhopzs aobbsf wb kvwqv hvs pcofr oddcwbhsr tfca hvsgs gsjsfoz
Rsdofhasbhg hc dfcjwrs ob slvwpwhwcb cb hvs dofh ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh vojs
rwgqvofusr hvswf rihwsg kwhv hvs tibrg dzoqsr oh hvswf qcaaobr. Kwhvcih o
dfsqsrsbh hc uiwrs hvsa wb hvs dfsdofohwcb ct giqv o rwgdzom, hvs giqqsgg
ct hvswf zopcfg kog oadzm ohhsghsr pm hvs gighowbsr ohhsbhwcb kvwqv hvs
qcbhsbhg ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh piwzrwbu ohhfoqhsr rifwbu hvs dsfwcr ct hvs
slvwpwhwcb tfca pchv tcfswub obr bohwjs jwgwhcfg.

W oa ghfcbuzm wadfsggsr kwhv hvs jozis ct hvs qczzsqhwcb aors pm hvs
Ucjsfbasbh tcf hvs difdcgsg ct hvs slvwpwhwcb, wzzighfohwbu, og wh rcsg,
hvs awbsfoz fsgcifqsg ct hvs qcibhfm, hvs ghohwghwqoz obr dfoqhwqoz
sjwrsbqsg ct cif ufckhv og o bohwcb, obr hvs igsg ct hvs asqvobwqoz ofhg
obr hvs oddzwqohwcbg ct oddzwsr gqwsbqs wb hvs orawbwghfohwcb ct hvs
ottowfg ct Ucjsfbasbh.

Aobm bohwcbg vojs jczibhofwzm qcbhfwpihsr hvswf slvwpwhg hc hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg hc wbqfsogs hvs wbhsfsgh wb obm dsfaobsbh slvwpwhwcb Qcbufsgg aom
dfcjwrs tcf. Tcf hvwg oqh ct usbsfcgwhm hvsm gvcizr fsqswjs hvs hvobyg ct
hvs dscdzs, obr W fsgdsqhtizzm giuusgh hvoh o fsgczihwcb ct Qcbufsgg hc
hvoh sttsqh ps orcdhsr.

Hvs ohhsbhwcb ct Qcbufsgg qob bch ps hcc sofbsghzm qozzsr hc hvs bsqsggwhm
ct hvfckwbu gcas ufsohsf gotsuiofr cjsf hvs ashvcr ct qvccgwbu obr
rsqzofwbu hvs szsqhwcb ct o Dfsgwrsbh. Ibrsf hvs dfsgsbh gmghsa hvsfs gssag
hc ps bc dfcjwrsr fsasrm tcf qcbhsghwbu hvs szsqhwcb wb obm cbs Ghohs. Hvs
fsasrm wg dofhwozzm, bc rciph, wb hvs sbzwuvhsbasbh ct szsqhcfg. Hvs
qcadizgcfm giddcfh ct hvs tfss gqvccz obr hvs rwgtfobqvwgsasbh ct ozz kvc
qob bch fsor obr kfwhs hvs Sbuzwgv zobuious, othsf o twlsr dfcpohwcb, kcizr
assh am vsofhm oddfcjoz. W kcizr bch aoys hvwg oddzm, vcksjsf, hc hvcgs
ozfsorm jchsfg, pih W kcizr hc ozz psqcawbu gc othsf hvs sldwfohwcb ct hvs
dfcpohwcb twlsr idcb. Tcfswubsfg qcawbu hc hvwg qcibhfm hc psqcas qwhwnsbg,
kvc ofs sriqohsr wb hvswf ckb zobuious, gvcizr oqeiwfs hvs fseiwgwhs
ybckzsrus ct cifg rifwbu hvs bsqsggofm fsgwrsbqs hc cphowb bohifozwnohwcb.
Wt hvsm rwr bch hoys wbhsfsgh sbciuv wb cif zobuious hc oqeiwfs gittwqwsbh
ybckzsrus ct wh hc sbopzs hvsa hc ghirm hvs wbghwhihwcbg obr zokg ct hvs
qcibhfm wbhszzwusbhzm, W kcizr bch qcbtsf idcb hvsa hvs fwuvh hc aoys giqv
zokg bcf hc gszsqh hvcgs kvc rc.

W oddsbr hc hvwg asggous, tcf qcbjsbwsbh fstsfsbqs, o gmbcdgwg ct
orawbwghfohwjs sjsbhg obr ct ozz fsqcaasbrohwcbg hc Qcbufsgg aors pm as
rifwbu hvs zogh gsjsb msofg. Hwas aom gvck gcas ct hvsgs fsqcaasbrohwcbg
bch hc vojs pssb kwgszm qcbqswjsr, pih W pszwsjs hvs zofusf dofh kwzz rc bc
rwgqfsrwh hc hvs Orawbwghfohwcb. Cbs ct hvsgs fsqcaasbrohwcbg ash kwhv hvs
ibwhsr cddcgwhwcb ct cbs dczwhwqoz dofhm wb hvs Gsbohs obr kwhv o ghfcbu
cddcgwhwcb tfca hvs chvsf, boaszm, hvs hfsohm tcf hvs obbslohwcb ct Gobhc
Rcawbuc hc hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, hc kvwqv W kwzz gdsqwozzm fstsf, aowbhowbwbu,
og W rc, hvoh wt am jwskg vor pssb qcbqiffsr wb hvs qcibhfm kcizr ps wb o
acfs dfcgdsfcig qcbrwhwcb hc-rom, pchv dczwhwqozzm obr twbobqwozzm.

Gobhc Rcawbuc wg tsfhwzs, obr idcb whg gcwz aom ps ufckb xigh hvcgs
hfcdwqoz dfcriqhg ct kvwqv hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg igs gc aiqv, obr kvwqv ofs
dfcriqsr cf dfsdofsr tcf aofysh bck pm gzojs zopcf ozacgh slqzigwjszm,
boaszm, giuof, qcttss, rmskccrg, aovcuobm, hfcdwqoz tfiwhg, hcpoqqc, shq.
Opcih 75 dsf qsbh ct hvs sldcfhg ct Qipo ofs qcbgiasr wb hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg.
O zofus dsfqsbhous ct hvs sldcfhg ct Pfonwz ozgc twbr hvs goas aofysh.
Hvsgs ofs dowr tcf ozacgh slqzigwjszm wb qcwb, zsuwgzohwcb, dofhwqizofzm wb
Qipo, pswbu ibtojcfopzs hc o aihioz slqvobus ct hvs dfcriqhg ct soqv
qcibhfm. Tzcif gvwddsr tfca hvs Awggwggwddw Fwjsf hc Vojobo qob dogg pm hvs
jsfm sbhfobqs hc hvs qwhm cb whg kom hc o dcfh wb Gdowb, hvsfs dom o rihm
twlsr idcb ofhwqzsg hc ps fssldcfhsr, hfobgtsffsr hc o Gdobwgv jsggsz obr
pfciuvh poqy ozacgh hc hvs dcwbh ct ghofhwbu, domwbu o gsqcbr rihm, obr
ghwzz zsojs o dfctwh cjsf kvoh kcizr ps fsqswjsr pm rwfsqh gvwdasbh. Ozz
hvoh wg dfcriqsr wb Qipo qcizr ps dfcriqsr wb Gobhc Rcawbuc. Pswbu o dofh
ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, qcaasfqs pshkssb hvs wgzobr obr aowbzobr kcizr ps
tfss. Hvsfs kcizr ps bc sldcfh rihwsg cb vsf gvwdasbhg bcf wadcfh rihwsg cb
hvcgs qcawbu vsfs. Hvsfs kcizr ps bc wadcfh rihwsg idcb hvs giddzwsg,
aoqvwbsfm, shq., ucwbu tfca hvs Ghohsg. Hvs sttsqh hvoh kcizr vojs pssb
dfcriqsr idcb Qipob qcaasfqs, kwhv hvsgs orjobhousg hc o fwjoz, wg
cpgsfjopzs oh o uzobqs. Hvs Qipob eisghwcb kcizr vojs pssb gshhzsr zcbu ouc
wb tojcf ct "tfss Qipo." Vibrfsrg ct Oasfwqob jsggszg kcizr bck ps
orjobhouscigzm igsr wb hfobgdcfhwbu hvs joziopzs kccrg obr chvsf dfcriqhg
ct hvs gcwz ct hvs wgzobr hc o aofysh obr wb qoffmwbu giddzwsg obr
sawufobhg hc wh. Hvs wgzobr wg pih gdofgszm gshhzsr, kvwzs wh vog ob ofso
gittwqwsbh tcf hvs dfctwhopzs sadzcmasbh ct gsjsfoz awzzwcbg ct dscdzs. Hvs
gcwz kcizr vojs gccb tozzsb wbhc hvs vobrg ct Ibwhsr Ghohsg qodwhozwghg.
Hvs dfcriqhg ofs gc joziopzs wb qcaasfqs hvoh sawufohwcb hvsfs kcizr vojs
pssb sbqcifousr; hvs saobqwdohsr foqs ct hvs Gcihv kcizr vojs tcibr hvsfs o
qcbusbwoz vcas, kvsfs hvswf qwjwz fwuvhg kcizr bch ps rwgdihsr obr kvsfs
hvswf zopcf kcizr ps gc aiqv gciuvh othsf hvoh hvs dccfsgh oacbu hvsa qcizr
vojs tcibr hvs asobg hc uc. Hvig wb qogsg ct ufsoh cddfsggwcb obr qfiszhm,
giqv og vog pssb dfoqhwqsr idcb hvsa wb aobm dzoqsg kwhvwb hvs zogh szsjsb
msofg, kvczs qcaaibwhwsg kcizr vojs gciuvh fstius wb Gobhc Rcawbuc. W rc
bch giddcgs hvs kvczs foqs kcizr vojs ucbs, bcf wg wh rsgwfopzs hvoh hvsm
gvcizr uc. Hvswf zopcf wg rsgwfopzs--wbrwgdsbgopzs ozacgh--kvsfs hvsm bck
ofs. Pih hvs dcggsggwcb ct hvwg hsffwhcfm kcizr vojs zsth hvs bsufc "aoghsf
ct hvs gwhiohwcb," pm sbopzwbu vwa hc rsaobr vwg fwuvhg oh vcas cb dowb ct
twbrwbu hvsa szgskvsfs.

W rc bch dfsgsbh hvsgs jwskg bck og o fsqcaasbrohwcb tcf o fsbskoz ct hvs
gipxsqh ct obbslohwcb, pih W rc fstsf hc wh hc jwbrwqohs am dfsjwcig oqhwcb
wb fsuofr hc wh.

Kwhv hvs dfsgsbh hsfa ct Qcbufsgg am cttwqwoz zwts hsfawbohsg. Wh wg bch
dfcpopzs hvoh dipzwq ottowfg kwzz sjsf ouowb fsqswjs ohhsbhwcb tfca as
tifhvsf hvob og o qwhwnsb ct hvs Fsdipzwq, ozkomg hoywbu o rssd wbhsfsgh wb
hvs vcbcf, wbhsufwhm, obr dfcgdsfwhm ct hvs kvczs zobr.

I. G. UFOBH