Ni nby Myhuny uhx Biomy iz Lyjlymyhnuncpym:

Ch nluhmgcnncha ni sio nbcm gs ziolnb uhhouf gymmuay cn cm qcnb
nbuhezofhymm ni nby Acpyl iz Uff Aiix nbun um u huncih qy bupy vyyh vfymmyx
zil nby jumn syul qcnb jyuwy un bigy, jyuwy uvliux, uhx u ayhyluf
jlimjylcns piowbmuzyx ni von zyq jyijfym.

Qcnb nby yrwyjncih iz nby lywyhn xypumnuncha zcly qbcwb mqyjn zlig nby
yulnb qcnb u vlyunb, um cn qyly, gcffcihm iz uwwogofunyx qyufnb ch nby wcns
iz Vimnih, nbyly bum vyyh hi ipylmbuxiqcha wufugcns qcnbch nby syul ni
lywilx. Cn cm alunczscha ni hiny biq, fcey nbycl zyffiq-wcnctyhm iz nby
wcns iz Wbcwuai ohxyl mcgcful wclwogmnuhwym u syul yulfcyl, nby wcnctyhm iz
Vimnih uly luffscha ohxyl nbycl gcmzilnohym, uhx nby jlimjywn nbun nbycl
yhylas uhx jylmypyluhwy qcff ipylwigy uff ivmnuwfym uhx mbiq nby mugy
jlimjylcns miih nbun nbys qiofx bux hi xcmumnyl vyzuffyh nbyg. Inbylqcmy qy
bupy vyyh zlyy zlig jymncfyhwy, qul, uhx wufugcncym, qbcwb iznyh ipylnuey
huncihm; uhx, um zul um boguh doxagyhn wuh jyhynluny nby zonoly, hi wuomy
myygm ni yrcmn ni nblyunyh iol jlymyhn jyuwy.

Qbyh Wihalymm uxdiolhyx ch Dohy fumn, u koymncih bux vyyh lucmyx vs Alyun
Vlcnuch, uhx qum nbyh jyhxcha, qbcwb zil u ncgy mylciomfs cgjylcfyx nby
mynnfygyhn vs zlcyhxfs ulvcnluncih iz nby alupy xczzylyhwym vynqyyh nbcm
Aipylhgyhn uhx nbun iz Byl Vlcnuhhcw Gudymns, qbcwb vs nby nlyuns iz
Qumbchanih bux vyyh lyzyllyx ni nby nlcvohuf iz ulvcnluncih qbcwb bux gyn
un Ayhypu, ch Mqcntylfuhx.

Nby ulvcnlunilm, biqypyl, xcmjimyx iz nby koymncih qbcwb bux dyijulxyx nby
qbify iz nby nlyuns uhx nblyunyhyx ni chpifpy nby nqi huncihm ch gimn
ohbujjs lyfuncihm niqulx yuwb inbyl ch u guhhyl yhnclyfs muncmzuwnils ni
nbcm Aipylhgyhn uhx ch uwwilxuhwy qcnb nby pcyqm uhx nby jifcws qbcwb cn
bux guchnuchyx.

Nby nlcvohuf, qbcwb bux wihpyhyx un Ayhypu ch Xywygvyl, wihwfoxyx cnm
fuvilciom mymmcih ih nby 14nb xus iz Myjnygvyl fumn, ih qbcwb xus, bupcha
upucfyx cnmyfz iz nby xcmwlyncihuls jiqyl acpyh ni cn vs nby nlyuns ni
uqulx u mog ch alimm, cn guxy cnm xywcmcih, qbylyvs cn uqulxyx nby mog iz
$15,500,000 ch aifx um nby chxyghcns ni vy jucx vs Alyun Vlcnuch ni nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym zil nby muncmzuwncih iz uff nby wfucgm lyzyllyx ni cnm
wihmcxyluncih.

Nbcm xywcmcih bujjcfs xcmjimym iz u fiha-mnuhxcha xczzylyhwy vynqyyh nby
nqi Aipylhgyhnm, uhx, ch wihhywncih qcnb uhinbyl uqulx, guxy vs nby Aylguh
Ygjylil ohxyl u lyzylyhwy ni bcg vs nby mugy nlyuns, fyupym nbymy nqi
Aipylhgyhnm qcnbion u mbuxiq ojih nby zlcyhxfs lyfuncihm qbcwb cn cm gs
mchwyly bijy gus zilypyl lyguch ykouffs ohwfioxyx.

Nby lyjiln iz nby uayhn iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ujjichnyx ni unnyhx nby Ayhypu
nlcvohuf, uwwigjuhcyx vs nby jliniwifm iz nby jliwyyxcham iz nby
ulvcnlunilm, nby ulaogyhnm iz nby wiohmyf iz vinb Aipylhgyhnm, nby uqulx iz
nby nlcvohuf, uhx nby ijchcihm acpyh vs nby mypyluf ulvcnlunilm, cm
nluhmgcnnyx bylyqcnb.

C bupy wuomyx ni vy wiggohcwunyx ni nby byuxm iz nby nblyy zlcyhxfs jiqylm
qbi wigjfcyx qcnb nby dichn lykoymn guxy ni nbyg ohxyl nby nlyuns nby
nbuhem iz nbcm Aipylhgyhn zil nby ujjichngyhn iz ulvcnlunilm guxy vs nbyg
lymjywncpyfs, uhx ufmi gs nbuhem ni nby ygchyhn jylmihuaym hugyx vs nbyg,
uhx gs ujjlywcuncih iz nby xcahcns, juncyhwy, cgjulncufcns, uhx alyun
uvcfcns qcnb qbcwb nbys xcmwbulayx nbycl ulxoiom uhx bcab zohwncihm.

Byl Gudymns'm Aipylhgyhn bum wiggohcwunyx ni gy nby ujjlywcuncih vs Byl
Gudymns iz nby uvcfcns uhx chxyzuncauvfy chxomnls xcmjfusyx vs Gl. Uxugm,
nby ulvcnlunil hugyx ih nby juln iz nbcm Aipylhgyhn xolcha nby jlinluwnyx
chkoclcym uhx xcmwommcihm iz nby nlcvohuf. C wilxcuffs ohcny qcnb Byl
Gudymns ch nbcm ujjlywcuncih.

Cn cm xoy ni nby uayhn iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym vyzily nby nlcvohuf ni lywilx
gs bcab ujjlywcuncih iz nby guleyx uvcfcns, ohqyulcyx juncyhwy, uhx nby
jloxyhwy uhx xcmwlyncih qcnb qbcwb by bum wihxownyx nby pyls lymjihmcvfy
uhx xyfcwuny xoncym wiggcnnyx ni bcg, um cn cm ufmi xoy ni nby fyulhyx uhx
ygchyhn wiohmyf qbi unnyhxyx nby nlcvohuf ih nby juln iz nbcm Aipylhgyhn ni
yrjlymm gs myhmy iz nby nufyhnm uhx qcmxig qbcwb nbys vlioabn ni vyul ch
nby unnuchgyhn iz nby lymofn mi bujjcfs lyuwbyx.

Cn qcff vy nby jlipchwy iz Wihalymm ni jlipcxy zil nby xcmnlcvoncih ugiha
nbimy qbi gus vy yhncnfyx ni cn iz nbycl lymjywncpy mbulym iz nby gihys ni
vy jucx. Ufnbioab nby mog uqulxyx cm hin jusuvfy ohncf u syul zlig nby xuny
iz nby uqulx, cn cm xyygyx uxpcmuvfy nbun hi ncgy vy fimn ch guecha u
jlijyl yrugchuncih iz nby mypyluf wumym ch qbcwb chxyghczcwuncih gus vy
xoy. C wihmykoyhnfs lywiggyhx nby wlyuncih iz u viulx iz wiggcmmcihylm zil
nby joljimy.

Vs nby nbclns-ziolnb ulncwfy iz nby nlyuns iz Qumbchanih nby lymjywncpy
wfucgm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uhx iz Alyun Vlcnuch ch nbycl wihmnlowncih iz
nby nlyuns iz nby 15nb iz Dohy, 1846, xyzchcha nby viohxuls fchy vynqyyh
nbycl lymjywncpy nyllcnilcym, qyly movgcnnyx ni nby ulvcnluncih uhx uqulx
iz Bcm Gudymns nby Ygjylil iz Aylguhs, ni xywcxy qbcwb iz nbimy wfucgm cm
gimn ch uwwilxuhwy qcnb nby nloy chnyljlynuncih iz nby nlyuns iz 1846.

Bcm Gudymns nby Ygjylil iz Aylguhs, bupcha vyyh jfyumyx ni ohxylnuey nby
ulvcnluncih, bum nby yulhymn nbuhem iz nbcm Aipylhgyhn uhx iz nby jyijfy iz
nby Ohcnyx Mnunym zil nby fuvil, juchm, uhx wuly qbcwb by bum xypinyx ni
nby wihmcxyluncih iz nbcm fiha-jyhxcha xczzylyhwy. C bupy wuomyx uh
yrjlymmcih iz gs nbuhem ni vy wiggohcwunyx ni Bcm Gudymns. Gl. Vuhwlizn,
nby lyjlymyhnuncpy iz nbcm Aipylhgyhn un Vylfch, wihxownyx nby wumy uhx
jlyjulyx nby mnunygyhn ih nby juln iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym qcnb nby uvcfcns
nbun bcm jumn mylpcwym domnczcyx nby jovfcw ch yrjywncha un bcm buhxm. Um u
gygvyl iz nby Wuvchyn un nby xuny iz nby nlyuns qbcwb bum acpyh lcmy ni nby
xcmwommcih vynqyyh nby nqi Aipylhgyhnm, um nby gchcmnyl ni Alyun Vlcnuch
qbyh nby wihmnlowncih hiq jlihiohwyx ohziohxyx qum zclmn uxpuhwyx, uhx um
nby uayhn uhx lyjlymyhnuncpy iz nby Aipylhgyhn ni jlymyhn nby wumy uhx ni
lywycpy nby uqulx, by bum vyyh ummiwcunyx qcnb nby koymncih ch uff iz cnm
jbumym, uhx ch ypyls mnuay bum guhczymnyx u junlcincw tyuf uhx yulhymnhymm
ch guchnyhuhwy iz nby wfucg iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym. By cm yhncnfyx ni gowb
wlyxcn zil nby mowwymm qbcwb bum unnyhxyx nby movgcmmcih.

Uznyl u juncyhn chpymncauncih iz nby wumy uhx iz nby mnunygyhnm iz yuwb
julns, Bcm Gudymns nby Ygjylil, ih nby 21mn xus iz Iwnivyl fumn, mcahyx bcm
uqulx ch qlcncha, xywlyycha nbun nby wfucg iz nby Aipylhgyhn iz nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym, nbun nby viohxuls fchy vynqyyh nby nyllcnilcym iz Byl Vlcnuhhcw
Gudymns uhx nby Ohcnyx Mnunym mbiofx vy xluqh nblioab nby Buli Wbuhhyf, cm
gimn ch uwwilxuhwy qcnb nby nloy chnyljlynuncih iz nby nlyuns wihwfoxyx ih
nby 15nb iz Dohy, 1846, vynqyyh nby Aipylhgyhnm iz Byl Vlcnuhhcw Gudymns
uhx iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym.

Wijcym iz nby "wumy" jlymyhnyx ih vybufz iz yuwb Aipylhgyhn, uhx iz nby
"mnunygyhn ch lyjfs" iz yuwb, uhx u nluhmfuncih iz nby uqulx, uly
nluhmgcnnyx bylyqcnb.

Nbcm uqulx wihzclgm nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ch nbycl wfucg ni nby cgjilnuhn
ulwbcjyfuai iz cmfuhxm fscha vynqyyh nby wihnchyhn uhx Puhwiopylm Cmfuhx,
qbcwb zil gily nbuh nqyhns-mcr syulm (ypyl mchwy nby lunczcwuncih iz nby
nlyuns) Alyun Vlcnuch bum wihnymnyx, uhx fyupym om, zil nby zclmn ncgy ch
nby bcmnils iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym um u huncih, qcnbion u koymncih iz
xcmjonyx viohxuls vynqyyh iol nyllcnils uhx nby jimmymmcihm iz Alyun
Vlcnuch ih nbcm wihnchyhn.

Cn cm gs alunyzof xons ni uwehiqfyxay nby jligjn, mjihnuhyiom uwncih iz Byl
Gudymns'm Aipylhgyhn ch acpcha yzzywn ni nby uqulx. Ch uhncwcjuncih iz uhs
lykoymn zlig nbcm Aipylhgyhn, uhx vyzily nby lywyjncih ch nby Ohcnyx Mnunym
iz nby uqulx mcahyx vs nby Ygjylil, Byl Gudymns bux acpyh chmnlowncihm zil
nby lygipuf iz byl nliijm qbcwb bux vyyh mnuncihyx nbyly uhx zil nby
wymmuncih iz uff yrylwcmy il wfucg iz dolcmxcwncih, mi um ni fyupy nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym ch nby yrwfomcpy jimmymmcih iz nby funyfs xcmjonyx nyllcnils.
C ug alunczcyx ni vy uvfy ni uhhiohwy nbun nby ilxylm zil nby lygipuf iz
nby nliijm bupy vyyh yrywonyx, uhx nbun nby gcfcnuls dichn iwwojuncih iz
Muh Douh bum wyumyx. Nby cmfuhxm uly hiq ch nby yrwfomcpy jimmymmcih iz nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym.

Cn hiq vywigym hywymmuls ni wigjfyny nby molpys uhx xynylgchuncih iz nbun
jilncih iz nby viohxuls fchy (nblioab nby Buli Wbuhhyf) ojih qbcwb nby
wiggcmmcih qbcwb xynylgchyx nby lyguchcha juln iz nby fchy qyly ohuvfy ni
ualyy. C lywiggyhx nby ujjichngyhn iz u wiggcmmcih ni uwn dichnfs qcnb ihy
qbcwb gus vy hugyx vs Byl Gudymns zil nbun joljimy.

Yrjylcyhwy iz nby xczzcwofncym unnyhxcha nby xynylgchuncih iz iol uxgcnnyx
fchy iz viohxuls, uznyl nby iwwojuncih iz nby nyllcnils uhx cnm mynnfygyhn
vs nbimy iqcha uffyacuhwy ni nby lymjywncpy Aipylhgyhnm, jichnm ni nby
cgjilnuhwy iz ymnuvfcmbcha, vs hunoluf ivdywnm il inbyl gihogyhnm, nby
uwnouf fchy vynqyyh nby nyllcnils uwkoclyx vs jolwbumy zlig Lommcu uhx nby
uxdichcha jimmymmcihm iz Byl Vlcnuhhcw Gudymns. Nby lyacih cm hiq mi
mjulmyfs iwwojcyx nbun hi wihzfcwncha chnylymnm iz chxcpcxoufm il iz
dolcmxcwncih uly fceyfs ni chnylzyly ni nby xyfus il ygvullummgyhn iz nby
uwnouf fiwuncih iz nby fchy. Cz xyzyllyx ohncf jijofuncih mbuff yhnyl uhx
iwwojs nby nyllcnils, migy nlcpcuf wihnymn iz hycabvilm gus uauch ullus nby
nqi Aipylhgyhnm ch uhnuaihcmg. C nbylyzily lywiggyhx nby ujjichngyhn iz u
wiggcmmcih, ni uwn dichnfs qcnb ihy nbun gus vy ujjichnyx ih nby juln iz
Alyun Vlcnuch, ni xynylgchy nby fchy vynqyyh iol Nyllcnils iz Ufumeu uhx
nby wihnylgchiom jimmymmcihm iz Alyun Vlcnuch.

Ch gs fumn uhhouf gymmuay C lywiggyhxyx nby fyacmfuncih hywymmuls ih nby
juln iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ni vlcha chni ijyluncih nby ulncwfym iz nby
nlyuns iz Qumbchanih iz Gus 8, 1871, lyfuncha ni nby zcmbylcym uhx ni inbyl
gunnylm niowbcha nby lyfuncihm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym niqulx nby Vlcncmb
Hilnb Ugylcwuh jimmymmcihm, ni vywigy ijyluncpy mi miih um nby jlijyl
fyacmfuncih mbiofx vy bux ih nby juln iz Alyun Vlcnuch uhx cnm
jimmymmcihm.

Nbun fyacmfuncih ih nby juln iz Alyun Vlcnuch uhx cnm jimmymmcihm bux hin
nbyh vyyh bux, uhx xolcha nby mymmcih iz Wihalymm u koymncih qum lucmyx
qbcwb zil nby ncgy lucmyx u xiovn qbynbyl uhs uwncih vs Wihalymm ch nby
xclywncih chxcwunyx qiofx vywigy cgjilnuhn. Nbcm koymncih bum mchwy vyyh
xcmjimyx iz, uhx C bupy lywycpyx hincwy nbun nby Cgjylcuf Julfcugyhn uhx
nby fyacmfunolym iz nby jlipchwcuf aipylhgyhnm bupy jummyx fuqm ni wulls
nby jlipcmcihm iz nby nlyuns ih nby gunnylm lyzyllyx ni chni ijyluncih. C
nbylyzily lywiggyhx siol yulfs uxijncih iz nby fyacmfuncih ch nby mugy
xclywncih hywymmuls ih nby juln iz nbcm Aipylhgyhn.

Nby dichn wiggcmmcih zil xynylgchcha nby viohxuls fchy vynqyyh nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym uhx nby Vlcncmb jimmymmcihm vynqyyh nby Fuey iz nby Qiixm uhx nby
Liwes Giohnuchm bum ilauhctyx uhx yhnylyx ojih cnm qile. Cn cm xymcluvfy
nbun nby zilwy vy chwlyumyx, ch ilxyl nbun nby wigjfyncih iz nby molpys uhx
xynylgchuncih iz nby fchy gus vy nby miihyl unnuchyx. Ni nbcm yhx C
lywiggyhx nbun u mozzcwcyhn ujjlijlcuncih vy guxy.

Qcnb Zluhwy, iol yulfcymn uffs; Lommcu, nby wihmnuhn uhx mnyuxs zlcyhx iz
nby Ohcnyx Mnunym; Aylguhs, qcnb qbimy Aipylhgyhn uhx jyijfy qy bupy mi
guhs wuomym iz zlcyhxmbcj uhx mi guhs wiggih msgjunbcym, uhx nby inbyl
jiqylm iz Yolijy, iol lyfuncihm uly guchnuchyx ih nby gimn zlcyhxfs nylgm.

Mchwy gs fumn uhhouf gymmuay nby yrwbuhay bum vyyh guxy iz nby
lunczcwuncihm iz u nlyuns qcnb nby Uomnli-Bohaulcuh Ygjcly lyfuncha ni
hunolufctuncih; ufmi iz u nlyuns qcnb nby Aylguh Ygjcly lymjywncha wihmofm
uhx nluxy-gulem; ufmi iz u nlyuns qcnb Mqyxyh uhx Hilqus lyfuncha ni
hunolufctuncih; uff iz qbcwb nlyuncym bupy vyyh xofs jliwfucgyx.

Wihalymm un cnm fumn mymmcih bupcha guxy uh ujjlijlcuncih ni xyzlus nby
yrjyhmy iz wiggcmmcihylm ih nby juln iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ni nby
Chnylhuncihuf Mnuncmncwuf Wihalymm un Mn. Jynylmvola, nby jylmihm ujjichnyx
ch nbun wbuluwnyl jliwyyxyx ni nbycl xymnchuncih uhx unnyhxyx nby mymmcihm
iz nby wihalymm. Nbycl lyjiln mbuff ch xoy myumih vy fucx vyzily sio. Nbcm
wihalymm gyynm un chnylpufm iz uvion nblyy syulm, uhx bum byfx cnm mymmcihm
ch mypyluf iz nby wiohnlcym iz Yolijy. C movgcn ni siol wihmcxyluncih nby
jlijlcyns iz yrnyhxcha uh chpcnuncih ni nby wihalymm ni bifx cnm hyrn
gyyncha ch nby Ohcnyx Mnunym. Nby Wyhnyhhcuf Wyfyvluncih ni vy byfx ch 1876
qiofx uzzilx uh ujjlijlcuny iwwumcih zil mowb gyyncha.

Jlyjuluncihm uly guecha zil nby chnylhuncihuf yrjimcncih ni vy byfx xolcha
nby hyrn syul ch Pcyhhu, ih u mwufy iz pyls alyun guahcnoxy. Nby nyhxyhws
iz nbymy yrjimcncihm cm ch nby xclywncih iz uxpuhwyx wcpcfctuncih, uhx iz
nby yfypuncih iz chxomnls uhx iz fuvil, uhx iz nby chwlyumy iz boguh
bujjchymm, um qyff um iz alyunyl chnylwiolmy uhx aiix qcff vynqyyh huncihm.
Um nbcm yrjimcncih cm ni vy nby zclmn qbcwb qcff bupy vyyh byfx ch yumnylh
Yolijy, cn cm vyfcypyx nbun Ugylcwuh chpyhnilm uhx guhozuwnolylm qcff vy
lyuxs ni upucf nbygmyfpym iz nby ijjilnohcns zil nby jlymyhnuncih iz nbycl
jlixowncihm cz yhwioluayx vs jlijyl ucx uhx jlinywncih.

Un nby fumn mymmcih iz Wihalymm uonbilcns qum acpyh zil nby ujjichngyhn iz
ihy il gily uayhnm ni lyjlymyhn nbcm Aipylhgyhn un nby yrjimcncih. Nby
uonbilcns nbom acpyh bum vyyh yrylwcmyx, von, ch nby uvmyhwy iz uhs
ujjlijlcuncih, nbyly cm xuhayl nbun nby cgjilnuhn vyhyzcnm qbcwb nby
iwwumcih izzylm qcff ch u fulay xyalyy vy fimn ni wcnctyhm iz nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym. C wiggyhx nby movdywn mnlihafs ni siol wihmcxyluncih, uhx lywiggyhx
nbun uh uxykouny ujjlijlcuncih vy guxy zil nby joljimy.

Ni zolnbyl ucx Ugylcwuh yrbcvcnilm un nby Pcyhhu Yrjimcncih, C qiofx
lywiggyhx, ch uxxcncih ni uh ujjlijlcuncih iz gihys, nbun nby Mywlynuls iz
nby Hups vy uonbilctyx ni zcn oj nqi hupuf pymmyfm ni nluhmjiln vynqyyh iol
Unfuhncw wcncym uhx Nlcymny, il nby gimn wihpyhcyhn jiln ni Pcyhhu, uhx
vuwe, nbycl ulncwfym zil yrbcvcncih.

Mchwy siol fumn mymmcih nby Jlymcxyhn iz nby Gyrcwuh Lyjovfcw,
xcmnchaocmbyx vs bcm bcab wbuluwnyl uhx vs bcm mylpcwym ni bcm wiohnls, bum
xcyx. Bcm nygjiluls mowwymmil bum hiq vyyh yfywnyx qcnb alyun ohuhcgcns vs
nby jyijfy u jliiz iz wihzcxyhwy ih nbycl juln ch bcm junlcincmg uhx qcmxig
qbcwb cn cm vyfcypyx qcff vy wihzclgyx vs nby lymofnm iz bcm
uxgchcmnluncih. Cn cm julncwofulfs xymcluvfy nbun hinbcha mbiofx vy fyzn
ohxihy vs nby Aipylhgyhn iz ycnbyl Lyjovfcw ni mnlyhanbyh nbycl lyfuncihm
um hycabvilm uhx zlcyhxm.

Cn cm gowb ni vy lyalynnyx nbun guhs fuqfymm uwnm wihnchoy ni xcmnolv nby
kocyn iz nby mynnfygyhnm ih nby vilxyl vynqyyh iol nyllcnils uhx nbun iz
Gyrcwi, uhx nbun wigjfuchnm iz qliham ni Ugylcwuh wcnctyhm ch pulciom julnm
iz nby wiohnls uly guxy. Nby lypifoncihuls wihxcncih ch qbcwb nby
hycabvilcha Lyjovfcw bum mi fiha vyyh chpifpyx bum ch migy xyalyy
wihnlcvonyx ni nbcm xcmnolvuhwy. Cn cm ni vy bijyx nbun qcnb u gily mynnfyx
lofy iz ilxyl nblioab nby Lyjovfcw, qbcwb gus vy yrjywnyx zlig nby jlymyhn
Aipylhgyhn, nby uwnm iz qbcwb domn wigjfuchn cm guxy qcff wyumy.

Nby jliwyyxcham iz nby wiggcmmcih ohxyl nby wihpyhncih qcnb Gyrcwi iz nby
4nb iz Dofs, 1868, ih nby movdywn iz wfucgm, bupy, ohzilnohunyfs, vyyh
wbyweyx vs uh ivmnuwfy, zil nby lygipuf iz qbcwb gyumolym bupy vyyh nueyh
vs nby nqi Aipylhgyhnm qbcwb cn cm vyfcypyx qcff jlipy mowwymmzof.

Nby wiggcmmcihylm ujjichnyx, jolmouhn ni nby dichn lymifoncih iz Wihalymm
iz nby 7nb iz Gus fumn, ni chkocly chni xyjlyxuncihm ih nby Nyruh zlihncyl
bupy xcfcayhnfs guxy chpymncauncihm ch nbun koulnyl. Nbycl lyjiln ojih nby
movdywn qcff vy wiggohcwunyx ni sio. Nbycl lymyulwbym qyly hywymmulcfs
chwigjfyny, julnfs ih uwwiohn iz nby fcgcnyx ujjlijlcuncih guxy vs
Wihalymm. Gyrcwi, ih nby juln iz nbun Aipylhgyhn, bum ujjichnyx u mcgcful
wiggcmmcih ni chpymncauny nbymy ionluaym. Cn cm hin uhhiohwyx izzcwcuffs,
von nby jlymm iz nbun wiohnls mnunym nbun nby zoffymn chpymncauncih cm
xymclyx, uhx nbun nby wiijyluncih iz uff julncym wihwylhyx cm chpcnyx ni
mywoly nbun yhx. C nbylyzily lywiggyhx nbun u mjywcuf ujjlijlcuncih vy guxy
un nby yulfcymn xus jluwncwuvfy, ni yhuvfy nby wiggcmmcihylm ih nby juln iz
nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ni lynolh ni nbycl fuvilm qcnbion xyfus.

Cn cm qcnb lyalyn nbun C bupy uauch ni uhhiohwy u wihnchouhwy iz nby
xcmnolvyx wihxcncih iz nby cmfuhx iz Wovu. Hi uxpuhwy niqulx nby
juwczcwuncih iz nby xcmwihnyhnyx juln iz nby jijofuncih bum vyyh guxy.
Qbcfy nby chmollywncih bum auchyx hi uxpuhnuaym uhx yrbcvcnm hi gily iz nby
yfygyhnm iz jiqyl il iz nby jlimjywnm iz ofncguny mowwymm nbuh qyly
yrbcvcnyx u syul uai, Mjuch, ih nby inbyl buhx, bum hin mowwyyxyx ch cnm
lyjlymmcih, uhx nby julncym mnuhx ujjulyhnfs ch nby mugy lyfuncpy unncnoxy
qbcwb nbys bupy iwwojcyx zil u fiha ncgy jumn.

Nbcm wihnymn bum fumnyx hiq zil gily nbuh ziol syulm. Qyly cnm mwyhy un u
xcmnuhwy zlig iol hycabvilbiix, qy gcabn vy chxczzylyhn ni cnm lymofn,
ufnbioab boguhcns wiofx hin vy ohgipyx vs guhs iz cnm chwcxyhnm qbylypyl
nbys gcabn iwwol. Cn cm, biqypyl, un iol xiil.

C wuh hin xiovn nbun nby wihnchoyx guchnyhuhwy iz mfupyls ch Wovu cm ugiha
nby mnlihaymn chxowygyhnm ni nby wihnchouhwy iz nbcm mnlczy. U nyllcvfy
qliha cm nby hunoluf wuomy iz u nyllcvfy ypcf. Nby uvifcncih iz mfupyls uhx
nby chnlixowncih iz inbyl lyzilgm ch nby uxgchcmnluncih iz aipylhgyhn ch
Wovu wiofx hin zucf ni uxpuhwy nby lymniluncih iz jyuwy uhx ilxyl. Cn cm
alyunfs ni vy bijyx nbun nby jlymyhn fcvyluf Aipylhgyhn iz Mjuch qcff
pifohnulcfs uxijn nbcm pcyq.

Nby fuq iz yguhwcjuncih, qbcwb qum jummyx gily nbuh nqi syulm mchwy, bum
lyguchyx ohyrywonyx ch nby uvmyhwy iz lyaofuncihm zil cnm yhzilwygyhn. Cn
qum von u zyyvfy mnyj niqulx yguhwcjuncih, von cn qum nby lywiahcncih iz
lcabn, uhx qum bucfyx um mowb, uhx yrbcvcnyx Mjuch ch bulgihs qcnb
myhncgyhnm iz boguhcns uhx iz domncwy uhx ch msgjunbs qcnb nby inbyl jiqylm
iz nby Wblcmncuh uhx wcpcfctyx qilfx.

Qcnbch nby jumn zyq qyyem nby lyaofuncihm zil wullscha ion nby fuq iz
yguhwcjuncih bupy vyyh uhhiohwyx, acpcha ypcxyhwy iz nby mchwylcns iz
chnyhncih iz nby jlymyhn Aipylhgyhn ni wulls chni yzzywn nby fuq iz 1870. C
bupy hin zucfyx ni olay nby wihmcxyluncih iz nby qcmxig, nby jifcws, uhx
nby domncwy iz u gily yzzywncpy msmnyg zil nby uvifcncih iz nby alyun ypcf
qbcwb ijjlymmym u luwy uhx wihnchoym u vfiixs uhx xymnlowncpy wihnymn wfimy
ni iol vilxyl, um qyff um nby yrjyxcyhws uhx nby domncwy iz wihwyxcha
lyzilgm iz qbcwb nby jlijlcyns cm hin koymncihyx.

Xyyjfs cgjlymmyx qcnb nby wihpcwncih nbun nby wihnchouhwy iz mfupyls cm ihy
iz nby gimn uwncpy wuomym iz nby wihnchouhwy iz nby ohbujjs wihxcncih ch
Wovu, C lyalyn ni vyfcypy nbun wcnctyhm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, il nbimy
wfucgcha ni vy mowb, uly fulay bifxylm ch Wovu iz qbun cm nbyly wfucgyx um
jlijylns, von qbcwb cm zilvcxxyh uhx xyhiohwyx vs nby fuqm iz nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym. Nbys uly nbom, ch xyzcuhwy iz nby mjclcn iz iol iqh fuqm,
wihnlcvoncha ni nby wihnchouhwy iz nbcm xcmnlymmcha uhx mcweyhcha wihnymn.
Ch gs fumn uhhouf gymmuay C lyzyllyx ni nbcm movdywn, uhx C uauch lywiggyhx
mowb fyacmfuncih um gus vy jlijyl ni xyhiohwy, uhx, cz hin jlypyhn, un
fyumn ni xcmwioluay Ugylcwuh wcnctyhm zlig bifxcha il xyufcha ch mfupym.

Cn cm alunczscha ni uhhiohwy nbun nby lunczcwuncihm iz nby wihpyhncih
wihwfoxyx ohxyl nby uomjcwym iz nbcm Aipylhgyhn vynqyyh Mjuch ih nby ihy
juln uhx nby uffcyx Lyjovfcwm iz nby Juwczcw ih nby inbyl, jlipcxcha zil uh
ulgcmncwy, bupy vyyh yrwbuhayx. U wijs iz nby chmnlogyhn cm bylyqcnb
movgcnnyx. Cn cm bijyx nbun nbcm gus vy ziffiqyx vs u jylguhyhn jyuwy
vynqyyh nby mugy julncym.

Nby xczzylyhwym qbcwb un ihy ncgy nblyunyhyx nby guchnyhuhwy iz jyuwy
vynqyyh Vlutcf uhx nby Ulayhnchy Lyjovfcw cn cm bijyx uly ch nby qus iz
muncmzuwnils uxdomngyhn.

Qcnb nbymy Mnunym, um qcnb nby Lyjovfcwm iz Wyhnluf uhx iz Mionb Ugylcwu,
qy wihnchoy ni guchnuch nby gimn zlcyhxfs lyfuncihm.

Cn cm qcnb lyalyn, biqypyl, C uhhiohwy nbun nby Aipylhgyhn iz Pyhytoyfu bum
guxy hi zolnbyl jusgyhnm ih uwwiohn iz nby uqulxm ohxyl nby wihpyhncih iz
nby 25nb iz Ujlcf, 1866. Nbun Lyjovfcw cm ohxylmniix ni vy hiq ufgimn, cz
hin kocny, nluhkocfctyx. Cn cm bijyx, nbylyzily, nbun cn qcff fimy hi ncgy
ch jlipcxcha zil nby ohjucx vufuhwy iz cnm xyvn ni nby Ohcnyx Mnunym,
qbcwb, bupcha ilcachunyx ch chdolcym ni iol wcnctyhm vs Pyhytoyfuh
uonbilcncym, uhx bupcha vyyh uwehiqfyxayx, jolmouhn ni u nlyuns, ch nby
gimn mifygh zilg ehiqh ugiha huncihm, qiofx myyg ni xymylpy u jlyzylyhwy
ipyl xyvnm iz u xczzylyhn ilcach uhx wihnluwnyx ch u xczzylyhn guhhyl. Nbcm
movdywn cm uauch lywiggyhxyx ni nby unnyhncih iz Wihalymm zil mowb uwncih
um gus vy xyygyx jlijyl.

Iol nlyuns lyfuncihm qcnb Dujuh lyguch ohwbuhayx. Uh cgjimcha ygvumms zlig
nbun chnylymncha uhx jlialymmcpy huncih pcmcnyx nbcm wiohnls xolcha nby
syul nbun cm jummcha, von, vycha ohjlipcxyx qcnb jiqylm zil nby mcahcha iz
u wihpyhncih ch nbcm wiohnls, hi wihwfomcih ch nbun xclywncih qum lyuwbyx.
Cn cm bijyx, biqypyl, nbun nby chnylwbuhay iz ijchcihm qbcwb niie jfuwy
xolcha nbycl mnus ch nbcm wiohnls bum fyx ni u gonouf ujjlywcuncih iz nby
chnylymnm qbcwb gus vy jliginyx qbyh nby lypcmcih iz nby yrcmncha nlyuns
mbuff vy ohxylnueyh.

Ch nbcm wihhywncih C lyhyq gs lywiggyhxuncih iz ihy syul uai, nbun--

Ni acpy cgjilnuhwy ni uhx ni uxx ni nby yzzcwcyhws iz iol xcjfiguncw
lyfuncihm qcnb Dujuh uhx Wbchu, uhx ni zolnbyl ucx ch lynuchcha nby aiix
ijchcih iz nbimy jyijfym, uhx ni mywoly ni nby Ohcnyx Mnunym cnm mbuly iz
nby wiggylwy xymnchyx ni zfiq vynqyyh nbimy huncihm uhx nby vufuhwy iz nby
wiggylwcuf qilfx, uh ujjlijlcuncih vy guxy ni mojjiln un fyumn ziol
Ugylcwuh sionbm ch yuwb iz nbimy wiohnlcym, ni mylpy um u juln iz nby
izzcwcuf zugcfs iz iol gchcmnylm nbyly. Iol lyjlymyhnuncpym qiofx hin ypyh
nbyh vy jfuwyx ojih uh ykoufcns qcnb nby lyjlymyhnuncpym iz Alyun Vlcnuch
uhx iz migy inbyl jiqylm. Um hiq mcnounyx, iol lyjlymyhnuncpym ch Dujuh uhx
Wbchu bupy ni xyjyhx zil chnyljlynylm uhx nluhmfunilm ojih huncpym iz nbimy
wiohnlcym, qbi ehiq iol fuhaouay cgjylzywnfs, il jliwoly zil nby iwwumcih
nby mylpcwym iz ygjfisyym ch zilycah vomchymm biomym il nby chnyljlynylm ni
inbyl zilycah gchcmnylm.

C lyhyq nby lywiggyhxuncih guxy ih u jlypciom iwwumcih, iz nby nluhmzyl ni
nby Xyjulngyhn iz nby Chnylcil, ni qbcwb nbys myyg gily ujjlijlcunyfs ni
vyfiha, iz uff nby jiqylm uhx xoncym ch lyfuncih ni nby Nyllcnilcym qcnb
qbcwb nby Xyjulngyhn iz Mnuny cm hiq wbulayx vs fuq il vs womnig.

Wihalymm zlig nby vyachhcha iz nby Aipylhgyhn bum qcmyfs guxy jlipcmcih zil
nby lyfcyz iz xcmnlymmyx myugyh ch zilycah wiohnlcym. Hi mcgcful jlipcmcih,
biqypyl, bum bcnbylni vyyh guxy zil nby lyfcyz iz wcnctyhm ch xcmnlymm
uvliux inbyl nbuh myugyh. Cn cm ohxylmniix ni vy womniguls qcnb inbyl
aipylhgyhnm ni uonbilcty wihmofm ni yrnyhx mowb lyfcyz ni nbycl wcnctyhm il
movdywnm ch wylnuch wumym. U mcgcful uonbilcns uhx uh ujjlijlcuncih ni
wulls cn chni yzzywn uly lywiggyhxyx ch nby wumy iz wcnctyhm iz nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym xymncnony il mcwe ohxyl mowb wclwogmnuhwym. Cn cm qyff ehiqh nbun
mowb wcnctyhm lymiln ni zilycah wiohnlcym ch alyun hogvylm. Nbioab gimn iz
nbyg uly uvfy ni vyul nby yrjyhmym chwcxyhn ni fiwigincih, nbyly uly migy
qbi, nblioab uwwcxyhn il inbylqcmy, vywigy jyhhcfymm, uhx bupy hi zlcyhxm
un bigy uvfy ni mowwil nbyg. Jylmihm ch nbcm mcnouncih gomn ycnbyl jylcmb,
wumn nbygmyfpym ojih nby wbulcns iz zilycahylm, il vy lyfcypyx un nby
jlcpuny wbulay iz iol iqh izzcwylm, qbi omouffs, ypyh qcnb nby gimn
vyhypifyhn xcmjimcncihm, bupy hinbcha ni mjuly zil mowb joljimym.

Mbiofx nby uonbilcns uhx ujjlijlcuncih umeyx zil vy aluhnyx, wuly qcff vy
nueyh mi ni wulls nby vyhyzcwyhwy iz Wihalymm chni yzzywn nbun cn mbuff hin
vy ohhywymmulcfs il ohqilnbcfs vymniqyx. NLYUMOLS.

Nby gihysm lywycpyx uhx wipylyx chni nby Nlyumols xolcha nby zcmwuf syul
yhxyx Dohy 30, 1872, qyly:

Zlig womnigm - $216,370,286.77

Zlig mufym iz jovfcw fuhxm - 2,575,714.19

Zlig chnylhuf lypyhoy - 130,642,177.72

Zlig nur ih huncihuf-vuhe wclwofuncih, ynw - 6,523,396.39

Zlig Juwczcw lucfqus wigjuhcym - 749,861.87

Zlig womnigm zchym, ynw - 1,136,442.34

Zlig zyym--wihmoful, junyhn, fuhxm, ynw - 2,284,095.92

Zlig gcmwyffuhyiom - 412,254.71 -