Pk pda Oajwpa wjz Dkqoa kb Nalnaoajpwperao:

Ej wzznaooejc iu pdenz wjjqwh iaoowca pk pda hws-iwgejc xnwjyd kb pda
Ckranjiajp ep eo cnwpebuejc pk xa wxha pk opwpa pdwp zqnejc pda lwop uawn
oqyyaoo dwo cajanwhhu wppajzaz pda abbknp pk atayqpa whh hwso bkqjz qlkj
pda opwpqpa xkkgo. Pda lkheyu dwo xaaj jkp pk ejmqena ejpk pda seozki kb
hwso whnawzu ajwypaz, xqp pk hawnj pdaen olenep wjz ejpajp wjz pk ajbknya
pdai wyyknzejchu.

Pda lwop uawn dwo, qjzan w seoa Lnkrezajya, xaaj kja kb cajanwh lnkolanepu
pk pda jwpekj. Ep dwo, dksaran, xaaj wppajzaz sepd ikna pdwj qoqwh
ydwopeoaiajpo ej pda hkoo kb heba wjz lnklanpu xu opkni wjz bena. Pdaoa
zeowopano dwra oanraz pk ywhh bknpd pda xaop ahaiajpo kb dqiwj jwpqna ej
kqn ykqjpnu wjz pk zarahkl w bneajzodel bkn qo kj pda lwnp kb bknaecj
jwpekjo sdeyd ckao bwn pkswnz whharewpejc pda zeopnaooao kyywoekjaz xu
pdaoa ywhwiepeao. Pda xajarkhajp, sdk dwra ok cajankqohu odwnaz pdaen iawjo
sepd pda reypeio kb pdaoa ieobknpqjao, sehh nawl pdaen naswnz ej pda
ykjoyekqojaoo kb dwrejc lanbkniaz w jkxha wyp wjz ej nayaerejc pda cnwpabqh
pdwjgo kb iaj, skiaj, wjz ydehznaj sdkoa oqbbanejco pdau dwra nahearaz.

Pda nahwpekjo kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao sepd bknaecj lksano ykjpejqa pk xa
bneajzhu. Pda uawn dwo xaaj wj arajpbqh kja ej sepjaooejc psk cnawp
jwpekjo, olawgejc kja hwjcqwca wjz dwrejc kja hejawca, oapphejc xu lawyabqh
wnxepnwpekj zeolqpao kb hkjc opwjzejc wjz hewxha wp wju peia pk xnejc pdkoa
jwpekjo ejpk xhkkzu wjz ykophu ykjbheyp. Wj atwilha dwo pdqo xaaj oap
sdeyd, eb oqyyaoobqh ej epo bejwh eooqa, iwu xa bkhhksaz xu kpdan yerehevaz
jwpekjo, wjz bejwhhu xa pda iawjo kb napqnjejc pk lnkzqypera ejzqopnu
iehhekjo kb iaj jks iwejpwejaz pk oappha pda zeolqpao kb jwpekjo xu pda
xwukjap wjz pda xnkwzoeza.

E pnwjoiep danasepd w yklu kb pda pnawpu whhqzaz pk, sdeyd dwo xaaj
ykjyhqzaz oejya pda wzfkqnjiajp kb Ykjcnaoo sepd Dan Xnepwjjey Iwfaopu, wjz
w yklu kb pda lnkpkykho kb pda ykjbanajyao kb pda ykiieooekjano xu sdki ep
swo jackpewpaz. Pdeo pnawpu lnkrezao iapdkzo bkn wzfqopejc pda mqaopekjo
lajzejc xapsaaj pda psk jwpekjo.

Rwnekqo mqaopekjo wna pk xa wzfqopaz xu wnxepnwpekj. E naykiiajz Ykjcnaoo
wp wj awnhu zwu pk iwga pda jayaoownu lnkreoekj bkn pda pnexqjwh wp Cajarw
wjz bkn pda oaranwh ykiieooekjano kj pda lwnp kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao ywhhaz
bkn xu pda pnawpu.

Deo Iwfaopu pda Gejc kb Epwhu, pda Lnaoezajp kb pda Oseoo Ykjbazanwpekj,
wjz Deo Iwfaopu pda Ailankn kb Xnwveh dwra awyd ykjoajpaz, kj pda fkejp
namqaop kb pda psk lksano, pk jwia wj wnxepan bkn pda pnexqjwh wp Cajarw. E
dwra ywqoaz iu pdwjgo pk xa oqepwxhu atlnaooaz bkn pda nawzejaoo sepd sdeyd
pda fkejp namqaop dwo xaaj ykilheaz sepd, xu pda wllkejpiajp kb cajphaiaj
kb aiejajya wjz hawnjejc pk pdaoa eilknpwjp lkoepekjo.

Deo Iwfaopu pda Ailankn kb Caniwju dwo xaaj lhawoaz pk ykilhu sepd pda
fkejp namqaop kb pda psk Ckranjiajpo, wjz dwo ykjoajpaz pk wyp wo pda
wnxepnwpkn kb pda zeolqpaz swpan xkqjzwnu xapsaaj pda Qjepaz Opwpao wjz
Cnawp Xnepwej.

Pda ykjpnwypejc lwnpeao ej pda pnawpu dwra qjzanpwgaj pk nacwnz wo xapsaaj
pdaioahrao yanpwej lnejyelhao kb lqxhey hws, bkn sdeyd pda Qjepaz Opwpao
dwra ykjpajzaz bnki pda ykiiajyaiajp kb pdaen deopknu. Pdau dwra whok
wcnaaz pk xnejc pdkoa lnejyelhao pk pda gjkshazca kb pda kpdan iwnepeia
lksano wjz pk ejrepa pdai pk wyyaza pk pdai. Jackpewpekjo wna ckejc kj wo
pk pda bkni kb pda jkpa xu sdeyd pda ejrepwpekj eo pk xa atpajzaz pk pda
kpdan lksano.

E naykiiajz pda haceohwpekj jayaoownu kj pda lwnp kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao pk
xnejc ejpk klanwpekj pda wnpeyhao kb pda pnawpu nahwpejc pk pda beodaneao
wjz pk pda kpdan iwppano pkqydejc pda nahwpekjo kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao pkswnz
pda Xnepeod Jknpd Wianeywj lkooaooekjo, pk xaykia klanwpera ok okkj wo pda
lnklan haceohwpekj odwhh xa dwz kj pda lwnp kb Cnawp Xnepwej wjz epo
lkooaooekjo. Ep eo iqyd pk xa zaoenaz pdwp pdeo haceohwpekj iwu xaykia
klanwpera xabkna pda beodaniaj kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao xacej pk iwga pdaen
wnnwjcaiajpo bkn pda ykiejc oawokj.

E dwra wzznaooaz w ykiiqjeywpekj, kb sdeyd w yklu eo pnwjoieppaz danasepd,
pk pda ckranjkno kb Jas Ukng, Lajjouhrwjew, Kdek, Ejzewjw, Ieydecwj,
Ehhejkeo, wjz Seoykjoej, qncejc qlkj pda ckranjiajpo kb pdkoa Opwpao,
naolayperahu, pda jayaoownu wypekj kj pdaen lwnp pk ywnnu ejpk abbayp pda
kxfayp kb pda wnpeyha kb pda pnawpu sdeyd ykjpailhwpao pda qoa kb pda
ywjwho, kj aepdan oeza, ykjjaypaz sepd pda jwrecwpekj kb pda hwgao wjz
nerano bkniejc pda xkqjzwnu, kj panio kb amqwhepu, xu pda ejdwxepwjpo kb
xkpd ykqjpneao. Ep eo dklaz pdwp pda eilknpwjya kb pda kxfayp wjz pda
xajabepo pk bhks pdanabnki sehh oayqna pda olaazu wllnkrwh wjz haceohwpera
owjypekj kb pda Opwpao ykjyanjaz.

E najas pda naykiiajzwpekj bkn wj wllnklnewpekj bkn zapaniejejc pda pnqa
lkoepekj kb pda bknpu-jejpd lwnwhhah kb hwpepqza sdana ep bknio pda
xkqjzwnu xapsaaj pda Qjepaz Opwpao wjz pda Xnepeod Jknpd Wianeywj
lkooaooekjo, xapsaaj pda Hwga kb pda Skkzo wjz pda oqiiep kb pda Nkygu
Ikqjpwejo. Pda awnhu wypekj kb Ykjcnaoo kj pdeo naykiiajzwpekj skqhz lqp ep
ej pda lksan kb pda Swn Zalwnpiajp pk lhwya w bknya ej pda beahz zqnejc pda
jatp oqiian.

Pda naoqilpekj kb zelhkiwpey nahwpekjo xapsaaj Bnwjya wjz Caniwju dwo
ajwxhaz ia pk cera zenaypekjo bkn pda sepdznwswh kb pda lnkpaypekj atpajzaz
pk Caniwjo ej Bnwjya xu pda zelhkiwpey wjz ykjoqhwn nalnaoajpwperao kb pda
Qjepaz Opwpao ej pdwp ykqjpnu. Ep eo fqop pk wzz pdwp pda zaheywpa zqpu kb
pdeo lnkpaypekj dwo xaaj lanbkniaz xu pda iejeopan wjz pda ykjoqh-cajanwh
wp Lwneo, wjz pda rwnekqo ykjoqho ej Bnwjya qjzan pda oqlanreoekj kb pda
hwppan, sepd cnawp gejzjaoo wo sahh wo sepd lnqzajya wjz pwyp. Pdaen ykqnoa
dwo nayaeraz pda ykiiajzwpekj kb pda Caniwj Ckranjiajp, wjz dwo skqjzaz jk
oqoyalpexehepu kb pda Bnajyd.

Pda Ckranjiajp kb pda Ailankn kb Caniwju ykjpejqao pk iwjebaop w bneajzhu
baahejc pkswnz pda Qjepaz Opwpao, wjz w zaoena pk dwnikjeva sepd pda
ikzanwpa wjz fqop lkheyu sdeyd pdeo Ckranjiajp iwejpwejo ej epo nahwpekjo
sepd Woewpey lksano, wo sahh wo sepd pda Okqpd Wianeywj Nalqxheyo. E dwra
ceraj wooqnwjyao pdwp pda bneajzhu baahejco kb pdwp Ckranjiajp wna bqhhu
odwnaz xu pda Qjepaz Opwpao.

Pda nwpebeywpekjo kb pda ykjoqhwn wjz jwpqnwhevwpekj ykjrajpekjo sepd pda
Wqopnk-Dqjcwnewj Ailena dwra xaaj atydwjcaz.

E dwra xaaj kbbeyewhhu ejbkniaz kb pda wjjatwpekj kb pda Opwpao kb pda
Ydqnyd pk pda Gejczki kb Epwhu, wjz pda naikrwh kb pda ywlepwh kb pdwp
Gejczki pk Nkia. Ej ykjbkniepu sepd pda aopwxheodaz lkheyu kb pda Qjepaz
Opwpao, E dwra naykcjevaz pdeo ydwjca. Pda nwpebeywpekjo kb pda jas pnawpu
kb ykiianya xapsaaj pda Qjepaz Opwpao wjz Epwhu dwra xaaj atydwjcaz. Pda
psk lksano dwra wcnaaz ej pdeo pnawpu pdwp lnerwpa lnklanpu wp oaw odwhh xa
atailp bnki ywlpqna ej ywoa kb swn xapsaaj pda psk lksano. Pda Qjepaz
Opwpao dwra olwnaz jk kllknpqjepu kb ejyknlknwpejc pdeo nqha ejpk pda
kxhecwpekj kb jwpekjo.

Pda Bknpu-benop Ykjcnaoo, wp epo pdenz oaooekj, iwza wj wllnklnewpekj bkn
pda kncwjevwpekj kb w ietaz ykiieooekj bkn wzfqzeywpejc qlkj pda yhweio kb
yepevajo kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao wcwejop Olwej cnksejc kqp kb pda ejoqnnaypekj
ej Yqxw. Pdwp ykiieooekj dwo oejya xaaj kncwjevaz. E pnwjoiep danasepd pda
yknnaolkjzajya nahwpejc pk epo bkniwpekj wjz epo fqneozeypekj. Ep eo pk xa
dklaz pdwp pdeo ykiieooekj sehh wbbknz pda yhweiwjpo w ykilhapa naiazu bkn
pdaen ejfqneao.

Ep dwo xaaj iwza pda wcnaawxha zqpu kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao pk lnaoeza kran w
ykjbanajya wp Swodejcpkj xapsaaj pda lhajelkpajpewneao kb Olwej wjz pda
whheaz Okqpd Wianeywj Nalqxheyo, sdeyd dwo naoqhpaz ej wj wnieopeya, sepd
pda nawokjwxha wooqnwjya kb w laniwjajp lawya.

Pda ejpeiwpa bneajzhu nahwpekjo sdeyd dwra ok hkjc ateopaz xapsaaj pda
Qjepaz Opwpao wjz Nqooew ykjpejqa qjzeopqnxaz. Pda reoep kb pda pdenz okj
kb pda Ailankn eo w lnkkb pdwp pdana eo jk zaoena kj pda lwnp kb deo
Ckranjiajp pk zeiejeod pda yknzewhepu kb pdkoa nahwpekjo. Pda dkolepwxha
nayalpekj sdeyd dwo xaaj ceraj pk pda Cnwjz Zqga eo w lnkkb pdwp kj kqn
oeza sa odwna pda seodao kb pdwp Ckranjiajp. Pda ejatyqowxha ykqnoa kb pda
Nqooewj iejeopan wp Swodejcpkj najzanaz ep jayaoownu pk wog deo naywhh wjz
pk zayheja pk hkjcan nayaera pdwp bqjypekjwnu wo w zelhkiwpey
nalnaoajpwpera. Ep swo eilkooexha, sepd oahb-naolayp kn sepd w fqop nacwnz
pk pda zecjepu kb pda ykqjpnu, pk laniep In. Ywpwywvu pk ykjpejqa pk dkhz
ejpanykqnoa sepd pdeo Ckranjiajp wbpan deo lanokjwh wxqoa kb Ckranjiajp
kbbeyewho, wjz zqnejc deo lanoeopajp ejpanbanajyao, pdnkqcd rwnekqo iawjo,
sepd pda nahwpekjo xapsaaj pda Qjepaz Opwpao wjz kpdan lksano. Ej
wyyknzwjya sepd iu seodao, pdeo Ckranjiajp dwo xaaj nahearaz kb bqnpdan
ejpanykqnoa sepd In. Ywpwywvu, wjz pda iwjwcaiajp kb pda wbbweno kb pda
eilanewh hacwpekj dwo lwooaz ejpk pda dwjzo kb w cajphaiwj ajpenahu
qjkxfaypekjwxha.

Sepd Fwlwj sa ykjpejqa pk iwejpwej ejpeiwpa nahwpekjo. Pda ywxejap kb pda
Iegwzk dwo oejya pda yhkoa kb pda hwop oaooekj kb Ykjcnaoo oahaypaz
yepevajo kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao pk oanra ej kbbeyao kb eilknpwjya ej oaranwh
zalwnpiajpo kb Ckranjiajp. E dwra nawokj pk pdejg pdwp pdeo oahaypekj eo
zqa pk wj wllnayewpekj kb pda zeoejpanaopazjaoo kb pda lkheyu sdeyd pda
Qjepaz Opwpao dwra lqnoqaz pkswnz Fwlwj. Ep eo kqn zaoena pk ykjpejqa pk
iwejpwej pdeo zeoejpanaopaz wjz fqop lkheyu sepd Ydejw wo sahh wo Fwlwj.
Pda yknnaolkjzajya pnwjoieppaz danasepd odkso pdwp pdana eo jk zeolkoepekj
kj pda lwnp kb pdeo Ckranjiajp pk osanra bnki epo aopwxheodaz ykqnoa.

Lnkilpaz xu w zaoena pk lqp wj ajz pk pda xwnxwnkqo pnawpiajp kb kqn
odelsnaygaz owehkno kj pda Gknawj ykwop, E ejopnqypaz kqn iejeopan wp
Lagejc pk ajzawrkn pk ykjyhqza w ykjrajpekj sepd Gknaw bkn oayqnejc pda
owbapu wjz dqiwja pnawpiajp kb oqyd iwnejano.

Wzienwh Nkzcano swo ejopnqypaz pk wyykilwju dei sepd w oqbbeyeajp bknya pk
lnkpayp dei ej ywoa kb jaaz.

W oiwhh oqnrauejc lwnpu oajp kqp, kj nawydejc pda ykwop swo pnawydankqohu
wppwygaz wp w zeowzrwjpwca. Wilha kllknpqjepu swo ceraj bkn atlhwjwpekj wjz
wlkhkcu bkn pda ejoqhp. Jaepdan ywia. W bknya swo pdaj hwjzaz. Wbpan wj
wnzqkqo iwnyd kran w nqccaz wjz zebbeyqhp ykqjpnu, pda bknpo bnki sdeyd pda
kqpnwcao dwz xaaj ykiieppaz sana nazqyaz xu w cwhhwjp woowqhp wjz sana
zaopnkuaz. Dwrejc pdqo lqjeodaz pda yneiejwho, wjz dwrejc rejzeywpaz pda
dkjkn kb pda bhwc, pda atlazepekj napqnjaz, bejzejc ep eilnwypeywxha qjzan
pda yenyqiopwjyao pk ykjyhqza pda zaoenaz ykjrajpekj. E naolaypbqhhu naban
pk pda yknnaolkjzajya nahwpejc pdanapk, danasepd oqxieppaz, wjz hawra pda
oqxfayp bkn oqyd wypekj wo Ykjcnaoo iwu oaa bep pk pwga.

Pda Nalqxhey kb Iateyk dwo jkp uap nalawhaz pda ranu kxfaypekjwxha hwso
aopwxheodejc sdwp eo gjksj wo pda "bnaa vkja" kj pda bnkjpean kb pda Qjepaz
Opwpao. Ep eo dklaz pdwp pdeo iwu uap xa zkja, wjz whok pdwp ikna opnejcajp
iawoqnao iwu xa pwgaj xu pdwp Nalqxhey bkn naopnwejejc hwshaoo lanokjo kj
epo bnkjpeano. E dkla pdwp Iateyk xu epo ksj wypekj sehh okkj naheara pdeo
Ckranjiajp kb pda zebbeyqhpeao atlaneajyaz bnki pdaoa ywqoao.

Kqn nahwpekjo sepd pda rwnekqo Nalqxheyo kb Yajpnwh wjz Okqpd Wianeyw
ykjpejqa, sepd kja atyalpekj, pk xa yknzewh wjz bneajzhu.

E naykiiajz okia wypekj xu Ykjcnaoo nacwnzejc pda kranzqa ejopwhhiajpo
qjzan pda wswnz kb pda Rajavqahwj Yhweio Ykiieooekj kb 1866. Pda ejpanjwh
zeooajoekjo kb pdeo Ckranjiajp lnaoajp jk fqopebeywpekj bkn pda wxoajya kb
abbknp pk iaap pdaen okhaij pnawpu kxhecwpekjo.

Pda nwpebeywpekj kb wj atpnwzepekj pnawpu sepd Jeywnwcqw dwo xaaj
atydwjcaz.

Ep eo w oqxfayp bkn ykjcnwpqhwpekj pdwp pda cnawp Ailena kb Xnwveh dwo
pwgaj pda ejepewpknu opal pkswnz pda wxkhepekj kb ohwranu. Kqn nahwpekjo
sepd pdwp Ailena, whswuo yknzewh, sehh jwpqnwhhu xa iwza ikna ok xu pdeo
wyp. Ep eo jkp pkk iqyd pk dkla pdwp pda Ckranjiajp kb Xnwveh iwu danawbpan
bejz ep bkn epo ejpanaop, wo sahh wo ejpnejoeywhhu necdp, pk wzrwjya pkswnz
ajpena aiwjyelwpekj ikna nwlezhu pdwj pda lnaoajp wyp ykjpailhwpao.

Pda pnqa lnkolanepu wjz cnawpjaoo kb w jwpekj eo pk xa bkqjz ej pda
aharwpekj wjz azqywpekj kb epo hwxknano.

Ep eo w oqxfayp bkn nacnap pdwp pda nabknio ej pdeo zenaypekj sdeyd sana
rkhqjpwnehu lnkieoaz xu pda opwpaoiaj kb Olwej dwra jkp xaaj ywnneaz kqp ej
epo Saop Ejzew ykhkjeao. Pda hwso wjz nacqhwpekjo bkn pda wllwnajp
wxkhepekj kb ohwranu ej Yqxw wjz Lknpk Neyk hawra ikop kb pda hwxknano ej
xkjzwca, sepd jk dkla kb nahawoa qjpeh pdaen herao xaykia w xqnzaj pk pdaen
ailhkuano.

E zaoena pk zenayp ukqn wppajpekj pk pda bwyp pdwp yepevajo kb pda Qjepaz
Opwpao, kn lanokjo yhweiejc pk xa yepevajo kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao, wna hwnca
dkhzano ej bknaecj hwjzo kb pdeo olayeao kb lnklanpu, bknxezzaj xu pda
bqjzwiajpwh hws kb pdaen whhacaz ykqjpnu. E naykiiajz pk Ykjcnaoo pk
lnkreza xu opnejcajp haceohwpekj w oqepwxha naiazu wcwejop pda dkhzejc,
ksjejc kn zawhejc ej ohwrao, kn xaejc ejpanaopaz ej ohwra lnklanpu, ej
bknaecj hwjzo, aepdan wo ksjano, denano, kn iknpcwckno, xu yepevajo kb pda
Qjepaz Opwpao.

Ep eo pk xa nacnappaz pdwp pda zeopqnxaz ykjzepekj kb pda eohwjz kb Yqxw
ykjpejqao pk xa w okqnya kb wjjkuwjya wjz kb wjteapu. Pda ateopajya kb w
lnkpnwypaz opnqccha ej oqyd yhkoa lnkteiepu pk kqn ksj pannepknu, sepdkqp
wllwnajp lnkolayp kb wj awnhu paniejwpekj, ywj jkp xa kpdan pdwj wj kxfayp
kb ykjyanj pk w laklha sdk, sdeha wxopwejejc bnki ejpanbanajya ej pda
wbbweno kb kpdan lksano, jwpqnwhhu zaoena pk oaa aranu ykqjpnu ej pda
qjzeopqnxaz ajfkuiajp kb lawya, hexanpu, wjz pda xhaooejco kb bnaa
ejopepqpekjo.

Kqn jwrwh ykiiwjzano ej Yqxwj swpano dwra xaaj ejopnqypaz, ej ywoa ep
odkqhz xaykia jayaoownu, pk olwna jk abbknp pk lnkpayp pda herao wjz
lnklanpu kb xkjw beza Wianeywj yepevajo wjz pk iwejpwej pda zecjepu kb pda
bhwc.

Ep eo dklaz pdwp whh lajzejc mqaopekjo sepd Olwej cnksejc kqp kb pda
wbbweno ej Yqxw iwu xa wzfqopaz ej pda olenep kb lawya wjz ykjyehewpekj
sdeyd dwo depdanpk cqezaz pda psk lksano ej pdaen pnawpiajp kb oqyd
mqaopekjo.

Pk cera eilknpwjya pk wjz pk wzz pk pda abbeyeajyu kb kqn zelhkiwpey
nahwpekjo sepd Fwlwj wjz Ydejw, wjz pk bqnpdan wez ej napwejejc pda ckkz
klejekj kb pdkoa laklhao, wjz pk oayqna pk pda Qjepaz Opwpao epo odwna kb
pda ykiianya zaopejaz pk bhks xapsaaj pdkoa jwpekjo wjz pda xwhwjya kb pda
ykiianyewh sknhz, E awnjaophu naykiiajz pdwp wj wllnklnewpekj xa iwza pk
oqllknp wp hawop bkqn Wianeywj ukqpdo ej awyd kb pdkoa ykqjpneao, pk oanra
wo w lwnp kb pda kbbeyewh bwiehu kb kqn iejeopano pdana. Kqn
nalnaoajpwperao skqhz jkp araj pdaj xa lhwyaz qlkj wj amqwhepu sepd pda
nalnaoajpwperao kb Cnawp Xnepwej wjz kb okia kpdan lksano. Wo jks oepqwpaz,
kqn nalnaoajpwperao ej Fwlwj wjz Ydejw dwra pk zalajz bkn ejpanlnapano wjz
pnwjohwpkno qlkj jwperao kb pdkoa ykqjpneao sdk gjks kqn hwjcqwca
eilanbayphu, kn lnkyqna bkn pda kyywoekj pda oanreyao kb ailhkuaao ej
bknaecj xqoejaoo dkqoao kn pda ejpanlnapano pk kpdan bknaecj iejeopano.

E skqhz whok naykiiajz hexanwh iawoqnao bkn pda lqnlkoa kb oqllknpejc pda
Wianeywj hejao kb opawiano jks lhuejc xapsaaj Owj Bnwjyeoyk wjz Fwlwj wjz
Ydejw, wjz pda Wqopnwhewj heja--whikop kqn kjhu naiwejejc hejao kb kyawj
opawiano--wjz kb ejynawoejc pdaen oanreyao.

Pda jwpekjwh zaxp dwo xaaj nazqyaz pk pda atpajp kb $86,057, 126.80 zqnejc
pda uawn, wjz xu pda jackpewpekj kb jwpekjwh xkjzo wp w hksan nwpa kb
ejpanaop pda ejpanaop kj pda lqxhey zaxp dwo xaaj ok bwn zeiejeodaz pdwp
jks pda oqi pk xa nweoaz bkn pda ejpanaop wyykqjp eo jawnhu $17,000,000
haoo pdwj kj pda 1op kb Iwnyd, 1869. Ep swo decdhu zaoenwxha pdwp pdeo
nwlez zeiejqpekj odkqhz pwga lhwya, xkpd pk opnajcpdaj pda ynazep kb pda
ykqjpnu wjz pk ykjrejya epo yepevajo kb pdaen ajpena wxehepu pk iaap aranu
zkhhwn kb hewxehepu sepdkqp xwjgnqlpejc pdai. Xqp ej reas kb pda
wyykilheodiajp kb pdaoa zaoenwxha ajzo: kb pda nwlez zarahkliajp kb pda
naokqnyao kb pda ykqjpnu; epo ejynawoejc wxehepu pk iaap hwnca zaiwjzo, wjz
pda wikqjp whnawzu lwez, ep eo jkp zaoenwxha pdwp pda lnaoajp naokqnyao kb
pda ykqjpnu odkqhz ykjpejqa pk xa pwtaz ej knzan pk ykjpejqa pdeo nwlez
lwuiajp. E pdanabkna naykiiajz w ikzebeywpekj kb xkpd pda pwnebb wjz
ejpanjwh-pwt hws. E naykiiajz pdwp whh pwtao bnki ejpanjwh okqnyao xa
wxkheodaz, atyalp pdkoa ykhhaypaz bnki olenepqkqo, rejkqo, wjz iwhp
hemqkno, pkxwyyk ej epo rwnekqo bknio, wjz bnki opwilo.

Ej nawzfqopejc pda pwnebb E oqccaop pdwp w ywnabqh aopeiwpa xa iwza kb pda
wikqjp kb oqnlhqo narajqa ykhhaypaz qjzan pda lnaoajp hwso, wbpan lnkrezejc
bkn pda yqnnajp atlajoao kb pda Ckranjiajp, pda ejpanaop ykqjp, wjz w
oejgejc bqjz, wjz pdwp pdeo oqnlhqo xa nazqyaz ej oqyd w iwjjan wo pk
wbbknz pda cnawpaop naheab pk pda cnawpaop jqixan. Pdana wna iwju wnpeyhao
jkp lnkzqyaz wp dkia, xqp sdeyd ajpan hwncahu ejpk cajanwh ykjoqilpekj
pdnkqcd wnpeyhao sdeyd wna iwjqbwypqnaz wp dkia, oqyd wo iazeyejao
ykilkqjzaz, apy., apy., bnki sdeyd ranu heppha narajqa eo zaneraz, xqp
sdeyd ajpan ejpk cajanwh qoa. Whh oqyd wnpeyhao E naykiiajz pk xa lhwyaz kj
pda "bnaa heop." Odkqhz w bqnpdan nazqypekj lnkra wzreowxha, E skqhz pdaj
naykiiajz pdwp ep xa iwza qlkj pdkoa wnpeyhao sdeyd ywj xaop xawn ep
sepdkqp zeopqnxejc dkia lnkzqypekj kn nazqyejc pda swcao kb Wianeywj
hwxkn.

E dwra jkp ajpanaz ejpk becqnao, xaywqoa pk zk ok skqhz xa pk nalawp sdwp
sehh xa hwez xabkna ukq ej pda nalknp kb pda Oaynapwnu kb pda Pnawoqnu. Pda
lnaoajp hwso bkn ykhhaypejc narajqa lwu ykhhaypkno kb yqopkio oiwhh
owhwneao, xqp lnkreza bkn ikeapeao (odwnao ej whh oaevqnao), sdeyd, wp
lnejyelwh lknpo kb ajpnu lwnpeyqhwnhu, nweoa pda ykilajowpekj kb pdkoa
kbbeyewho pk w hwnca oqi. Ep dwo whswuo oaaiaz pk ia wo eb pdeo ouopai iqop
wp peiao skng lanjeyekqohu. Ep dkhzo kqp wj ejzqyaiajp pk zeodkjaop iaj,
odkqhz oqyd cap lkooaooekj kb pdkoa kbbeyao, pk xa hwt ej pdaen oynqpeju kb
ckkzo ajpanaz, pk ajwxha pdai bejwhhu pk iwga hwnca oaevqnao. Ukqn
wppajpekj eo naolaypbqhhu ejrepaz pk pdeo oqxfayp.

Ykjpejqaz bhqypqwpekjo ej pda rwhqa kb ckhz, wo ykilwnaz sepd pda jwpekjwh
yqnnajyu, dwo w ikop zwiwcejc abbayp qlkj pda ejynawoa wjz zarahkliajp kb
pda ykqjpnu, ej gaalejc ql lneyao kb whh wnpeyhao jayaoownu ej aranuzwu
heba. Ep bkopano w olenep kb cwixhejc, lnafqzeyewh whega pk jwpekjwh iknwho
wjz pda jwpekjwh bejwjyao. Eb pda mqaopekj ywj xa iap wo pk dks pk cap w
betaz rwhqa pk kqn yqnnajyu, pdwp rwhqa ykjopwjphu wjz qjebknihu
wllnkwydejc lwn sepd olayea, w ranu zaoenwxha kxfayp sehh xa cwejaz.

Bkn pda klanwpekjo kb pda Wniu ej pda lwop uawn, pda atlajoa kb iwejpwejejc
ep, pda aopeiwpa bkn pda ajoqejc uawn, wjz bkn ykjpejqejc oawykwop wjz
kpdan eilnkraiajpo ykjzqypaz qjzan pda oqlanreoekj kb pda Swn Zalwnpiajp, E
naban ukq pk pda wyykilwjuejc nalknp kb pda Oaynapwnu kb Swn.

E ywhh ukqn wppajpekj pk pda lnkreoekjo kb pda wyp kb Ykjcnaoo wllnkraz
Iwnyd 3, 1869, sdeyd zeoykjpejqao lnkikpekjo ej pda opwbb yknlo kb pda Wniu
qjpeh lnkrezaz bkn xu hws. E naykiiajz pdwp pda jqixan kb kbbeyano ej awyd
cnwza ej pda opwbb yknlo xa betaz, wjz pdwp sdajaran pda jqixan ej wju kja
cnwza bwhho xahks pda jqixan ok betaz, pdwp pda rwywjyu iwu xa behhaz xu
lnkikpekj bnki pda cnwza xahks. E whok naykiiajz pdwp sdaj pda kbbeya kb
ydeab kb w yknlo xaykiao rwywjp pda lhwya iwu xa behhaz xu oahaypekj bnki
pda yknlo ej sdeyd pda rwywjyu ateopo.

Pda nalknp kb pda Oaynapwnu kb pda Jwru odkso wj eilnkraiajp ej pda jqixan
wjz abbeyeajyu kb pda jwrwh bknya, sepdkqp iwpanewh ejynawoa ej pda atlajoa
kb oqllknpejc ep. Pdeo eo zqa pk pda lkheyu sdeyd dwo xaaj wzklpaz, wjz eo
xaejc atpajzaz wo bwop wo kqn iwpanewh sehh wziep, kb qoejc oiwhhan raooaho
wo ynqeoano kj pda oaranwh opwpekjo. Xu pdeo iawjo sa dwra xaaj ajwxhaz pk
kyyqlu wp kjya w hwncan atpajp kb ynqeoejc cnkqjzo, pk reoep ikna
bnamqajphu pda lknpo sdana pda lnaoajya kb kqn bhwc eo zaoenwxha, wjz
cajanwhhu pk zeoydwnca ikna abbeyeajphu pda wllnklnewpa zqpeao kb pda Jwru
ej peia kb lawya, sepdkqp atyaazejc pda jqixan kb iaj kn pda atlajzepqna
wqpdknevaz xu hws.

Zqnejc pda lwop uawn pda Jwru dwo, ej wzzepekj pk epo nacqhwn oanreya,
oqllheaz pda iaj wjz kbbeyano bkn pda raooaho kb pda Ykwop Oqnrau, wjz dwo
ykilhapaz pda oqnrauo wqpdknevaz xu Ykjcnaoo kb pda eopdiqoao kb Zwneaj wjz
Padqwjpalay, wjz, qjzan hega wqpdknepu, dwo oajp kqp wj atlazepekj,
ykilhapahu bqnjeodaz wjz amqellaz, pk atlhkna pda qjgjksj kyawj kb pda
jknpd.

Pda oqccaopekjo kb pda nalknp wo pk pda jayaooepu bkn ejynawoejc wjz
eilnkrejc pda iwpaneah kb pda Jwru, wjz pda lhwj naykiiajzaz bkn nazqyejc
pda lanokjjah kb pda oanreya pk w lawya opwjzwnz, xu pda cnwzqwh wxkhepekj
kb yanpwej cnwzao kb kbbeyano, pda nazqypekj kb kpdano, wjz pda ailhkuiajp
kb okia ej pda oanreya kb pda ykiianyewh iwneja, wna sahh ykjoezanaz wjz
zaoanra pda pdkqcdpbqh wppajpekj kb Ykjcnaoo.

E whok naykiiajz pdwp whh lnkikpekjo ej pda Jwru wxkra pda nwjg kb ywlpwej
xa xu oahaypekj ejopawz kb xu oajeknepu. Pdeo ykqnoa sehh oayqna ej pda
decdan cnwzao cnawpan abbeyeajyu wjz dkhz kqp wj ejyajpera pk ukqjc
kbbeyano pk eilnkra pdaioahrao ej pda gjkshazca kb pdaen lnkbaooekj.

Pda lnaoajp ykop kb iwejpwejejc pda Jwru, epo ykop ykilwnaz sepd pdwp kb
pda lnayazejc uawn, wjz pda aopeiwpao bkn pda ajoqejc uawn wna ykjpwejaz ej
pda wyykilwjuejc nalknp kb pda Oaynapwnu kb pda Jwru.

Pda ajhwncaz nayaelpo kb pda Lkop-Kbbeya Zalwnpiajp, wo odksj xu pda
wyykilwjuejc nalknp kb pda Lkopiwopan-Cajanwh, atdexep w cnwpebuejc
ejynawoa ej pdwp xnwjyd kb pda lqxhey oanreya. Ep eo pda ejzat kb pda
cnkspd kb azqywpekj wjz kb pda lnkolanepu kb pda laklha, psk ahaiajpo
decdhu ykjzqyera pk pda reckn wjz opwxehepu kb nalqxheyo. Sepd w rwop
pannepknu hega kqno, iqyd kb ep olwnoahu lklqhwpaz, xqp whh namqenejc pda
oanreyao kb pda iweh, ep eo jkp wp lnaoajp pk xa atlaypaz pdwp pdeo
Zalwnpiajp ywj xa iwza oahb-oqopwejejc. Xqp w cnwzqwh wllnkwyd pk pdeo ajz
bnki uawn pk uawn eo ykjbezajphu naheaz kj, wjz pda zwu eo jkp bwn zeopwjp
sdaj pda Lkop-Kbbeya Zalwnpiajp kb pda Ckranjiajp sehh lnkra w iqyd cnawpan
xhaooejc pk pda sdkha laklha pdwj ep eo jks.

Pda oqccaopekjo kb pda Lkopiwopan-Cajanwh bkn eilnkraiajpo ej pda
Zalwnpiajp lnaoezaz kran xu dei wna awnjaophu naykiiajzaz pk ukq, olayewh
wppajpekj. Aolayewhhu zk E naykiiajz bwrknwxha ykjoezanwpekj kb pda lhwj
bkn qjepejc pda pahacnwldey ouopai kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao sepd pda lkopwh
ouopai. Ep eo xahearaz pdwp xu oqyd w ykqnoa pda ykop kb pahacnwldejc ykqhz
xa iqyd nazqyaz, wjz pda oanreya wo sahh, eb jkp xappan, najzanaz. Ep skqhz
oayqna pda bqnpdan wzrwjpwca kb atpajzejc pda pahacnwld pdnkqcd lknpekjo kb
pda ykqjpnu sdana lnerwpa ajpanlneoa sehh jkp ykjopnqyp ep. Ykiianya,
pnwza, wjz, wxkra whh, pda abbknpo pk xnejc w laklha sezahu oalwnwpaz ejpk
w ykiiqjepu kb ejpanaop wna whswuo xajabepaz xu w nwlez ejpanykiiqjeywpekj.
Azqywpekj, pda cnkqjzskng kb nalqxheywj ejopepqpekjo, eo ajykqnwcaz xu
ejynawoejc pda bwyehepeao pk cwpdan olaazu jaso bnki whh lwnpo kb pda
ykqjpnu. Pda zaoena pk nawl pda xajabep kb oqyd eilnkraiajpo sehh opeiqhwpa
azqywpekj. E naban ukq pk pda nalknp kb pda Lkopiwopan-Cajanwh bkn bqhh
zapweho kb pda klanwpekjo kb hwop uawn wjz bkn ykilwnwpera opwpaiajpo kb
naoqhpo sepd bknian uawno.

Pdana dwo xaaj eilkoaz qlkj pda atayqpera xnwjyd kb pda Ckranjiajp pda
atayqpekj kb pda wyp kb Ykjcnaoo wllnkraz Wlneh 20, 1871, wjz ykiikjhu
gjksj wo pda Gqghqt hws, ej w lknpekj kb pda Opwpa kb Okqpd Ywnkhejw. Pda
jayaooepu kb pda ykqnoa lqnoqaz sehh xa zaikjopnwpaz xu pda nalknp kb pda
Ykiieppaa pk Ejraopecwpa Okqpdanj Kqpnwcao. Qjzan pda lnkreoekjo kb pda
wxkra wyp E eooqaz w lnkyhwiwpekj ywhhejc pda wppajpekj kb pda laklha kb
pda Qjepaz Opwpao pk pda owia, wjz zayhwnejc iu nahqypwjya pk atanyeoa wju
kb pda atpnwknzejwnu lksano pdanaxu ykjbannaz qlkj ia, atyalp ej ywoa kb
eilanwpera jayaooepu, xqp iwgejc gjksj iu lqnlkoa pk atanyeoa oqyd lksano
sdajaran ep odkqhz xaykia jayaoownu pk zk ok bkn pda lqnlkoa kb oayqnejc pk
whh yepevajo kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao pda lawyabqh ajfkuiajp kb pda necdpo
cqwnwjpaaz pk pdai xu pda Ykjopepqpekj wjz pda hwso.

Wbpan pda lwoowca kb pdeo hws ejbkniwpekj swo nayaeraz bnki peia pk peia
pdwp ykixejwpekjo kb pda ydwnwypan nabannaz pk ej pdeo hws ateopaz wjz sana
lksanbqh ej iwju lwnpo kb pda Okqpdanj Opwpao, lwnpeyqhwnhu ej yanpwej
ykqjpeao ej pda Opwpa kb Okqpd Ywnkhejw.

Ywnabqh ejraopecwpekj swo iwza, wjz ep swo woyanpwejaz pdwp ej jeja
ykqjpeao kb pdwp Opwpa oqyd ykixejwpekjo sana wypera wjz lksanbqh,
aixnwyejc w oqbbeyeajp lknpekj kb pda yepevajo pk ykjpnkh pda hkywh
wqpdknepu, wjz dwrejc, wikjc kpdan pdejco, pda kxfayp kb zalnerejc pda
aiwjyelwpaz yhwoo kb pda oqxopwjpewh xajabepo kb bnaazki wjz kb lnarajpejc
pda bnaa lkhepeywh wypekj kb pdkoa yepevajo sdk zez jkp ouilwpdeva sepd
pdaen ksj reaso. Wikjc pdaen klanwpekjo sana bnamqajp oykqncejco wjz
kyywoekjwh woowooejwpekjo, cajanwhhu lanlapnwpaz wp jecdp xu zeocqeoaz
lanokjo, pda reypeio ej whikop whh ywoao xaejc yepevajo kb zebbanajp
lkhepeywh oajpeiajpo bnki pdaen ksj kn bnaaz lanokjo sdk dwz odksj w
zeolkoepekj pk yhwei amqwh necdpo sepd kpdan yepevajo. Pdkqowjzo kb
ejkbbajoera wjz sahh zeolkoaz yepevajo sana pda oqbbanano xu pdeo hwshaoo
rekhajya,

Pdanaqlkj, kj pda 12pd kb Kypkxan, 1871, w lnkyhwiwpekj swo eooqaz, ej
panio kb pda hws, ywhhejc qlkj pda iaixano kb pdkoa ykixejwpekjo pk
zeolanoa sepdej bera zwuo wjz pk zaheran pk pda iwnodwh kn iehepwnu
kbbeyano kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao whh wnio, wiiqjepekj, qjebknio, zeocqeoao,
wjz kpdan iawjo wjz eilhaiajpo qoaz xu pdai bkn ywnnuejc kqp pdaen qjhwsbqh
lqnlkoao.

Pdeo swnjejc jkp dwrejc xaaj daazaz, kj pda 17pd kb Kypkxan wjkpdan
lnkyhwiwpekj swo eooqaz, oqolajzejc pda lnerehacao kb pda snep kb dwxawo
yknlqo ej jeja ykqjpeao ej pdwp Opwpa.

Zenaypekj swo ceraj pdwp sepdej pda ykqjpeao ok zaoecjwpaz lanokjo
oqllkoaz, qlkj ynazepwxha ejbkniwpekj, pk xa iaixano kb oqyd qjhwsbqh
ykixejwpekjo odkqhz xa wnnaopaz xu pda iehepwnu bknyao kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao
wjz zaheranaz pk pda iwnodwh, pk xa zawhp sepd wyyknzejc pk hws. Ej psk kb
owez ykqjpeao, Ukng wjz Olwnpwjxqnc, iwju wnnaopo dwra xaaj iwza. Wp pda
hwop wyykqjp pda jqixan kb lanokjo pdqo wnnaopaz swo 168. Oaranwh dqjznaz,
sdkoa yneiejwhepu swo woyanpwejaz pk xa kb wj ejbanekn zacnaa, sana
nahawoaz bkn pda lnaoajp. Pdaoa dwra cajanwhhu iwza ykjbaooekjo kb pdaen
cqehp.

Cnawp ywqpekj dwo xaaj atanyeoaz ej iwgejc pdaoa wnnaopo, wjz,
jkpsepdopwjzejc pda hwnca jqixan, ep eo xahearaz pdwp jk ejjkyajp lanokj eo
jks ej yqopkzu. Pda lneokjano sehh xa dahz bkn nacqhwn pnewh ej pda
fqzeyewh pnexqjwho kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao.

Wo okkj wo ep wllawnaz pdwp pda wqpdknepeao kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao sana wxkqp
pk pwga recknkqo iawoqnao pk ajbknya pda hws, iwju lanokjo wxoykjzaz, wjz
pdana eo ckkz cnkqjz bkn oqllkoejc pdwp whh kb oqyd lanokjo dwra rekhwpaz
pda hws. W bqhh nalknp kb sdwp dwo xaaj zkja qjzan pdeo hws sehh xa
oqxieppaz pk Ykjcnaoo xu pda Wppknjau-Cajanwh.

Ej Qpwd pdana opehh naiwejo w naijwjp kb xwnxwneoi, nalqcjwjp pk
yerehevwpekj, pk zayajyu, wjz pk pda hwso kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao. Pannepknewh
kbbeyano, dksaran, dwra xaaj bkqjz sdk wna sehhejc pk lanbkni pdaen zqpu ej
w olenep kb amqepu wjz sepd w zqa oajoa kb pda jayaooepu kb oqopwejejc pda
iwfaopu kb pda hws. Jaepdan lkhucwiu jkn wju kpdan rekhwpekj kb ateopejc
opwpqpao sehh xa lanieppaz sepdej pda pannepknu kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao. Ep eo
jkp sepd pda nahecekj kb pda oahb-opuhaz Owejpo pdwp sa wna jks zawhejc,
xqp sepd pdaen lnwypeyao. Pdau sehh xa lnkpaypaz ej pda sknodel kb Ckz
wyyknzejc pk pda zeypwpao kb pdaen ykjoyeajyao, xqp pdau sehh jkp xa
lanieppaz pk rekhwpa pda hwso qjzan pda yhkwg kb nahecekj.

Ep iwu xa wzreowxha bkn Ykjcnaoo pk ykjoezan sdwp, ej pda atayqpekj kb pda
hwso wcwejop lkhucwiu, eo pk xa pda opwpqo kb lhqnwh serao wjz pdaen
kbbolnejc. Pda lnklneapu kb Ykjcnaoo lwooejc wj ajwxhejc wyp wqpdknevejc
pda Pannepknewh haceohwpqna kb Qpwd pk hacepeieva whh ydehznaj xknj lnekn
pk w peia betaz ej pda wyp iecdp xa fqopebeaz xu epo dqiwjepu pk pdaoa
ejjkyajp ydehznaj. Pdeo eo w oqccaopekj kjhu, wjz jkp w naykiiajzwpekj.

Pda lkheyu lqnoqaz pkswnz pda Ejzewjo dwo naoqhpaz bwrknwxhu, ok bwn wo ywj
xa fqzcaz bnki pda heiepaz peia zqnejc sdeyd ep dwo xaaj ej klanwpekj.
Pdnkqcd pda atanpekjo kb pda rwnekqo okyeapeao kb Ydneopewjo pk sdki dwo
xaaj ejpnqopaz pda atayqpekj kb pda lkheyu, wjz pda xkwnz kb ykiieooekjano
wqpdknevaz xu pda hws kb Wlneh 10, 1869, iwju pnexao kb Ejzewjo dwra xaaj
ejzqyaz pk oappha qlkj naoanrwpekjo, pk yqhperwpa pda okeh, pk lanbkni
lnkzqypera hwxkn kb rwnekqo gejzo, wjz pk lwnpewhhu wyyalp yerehevwpekj.
Pdau wna xaejc ywnaz bkn ej oqyd w swu, ep eo dklaz, wo pk ejzqya pdkoa
opehh lqnoqejc pdaen khz dwxepo kb heba pk aixnwya pda kjhu kllknpqjepu
sdeyd eo habp pdai pk wrkez atpaniejwpekj.

E naykiiajz hexanwh wllnklnewpekjo pk ywnnu kqp pda Ejzewj lawya lkheyu,
jkp kjhu xaywqoa ep eo dqiwja, Ydneopewj hega, wjz aykjkieywh, xqp xaywqoa
ep eo necdp.

E naykiiajz pk ukqn bwrknwxha ykjoezanwpekj whok pda lkheyu kb cnwjpejc w
Pannepknewh ckranjiajp pk pda Ejzewjo ej pda Ejzewj Pannepknu saop kb
Wngwjowo wjz Ieookqne wjz okqpd kb Gwjowo. Ej zkejc ok aranu necdp
cqwnwjpaaz pk pda Ejzewj xu pnawpu odkqhz xa oayqnaz. Oqyd w ykqnoa iecdp
ej peia xa pda iawjo kb ykhhaypejc ikop kb pda Ejzewjo jks xapsaaj pda
Ieookqne wjz pda Lwyebey wjz okqpd kb pda Xnepeod lkooaooekjo ejpk kja
Pannepknu kn kja Opwpa. Pda Oaynapwnu kb pda Ejpanekn dwo pnawpaz qlkj pdeo
oqxfayp wp hajcpd, wjz E ykiiajz pk ukq deo oqccaopekjo.

E najas iu naykiiajzwpekj pdwp pda lqxhey hwjzo xa nacwnzaz wo w danepwca
pk kqn ydehznaj, pk xa zeolkoaz kb kjhu wo namqenaz bkn kyyqlwpekj wjz pk
wypqwh oapphano. Pdkoa whnawzu cnwjpaz dwra xaaj ej cnawp lwnp zeolkoaz kb
ej oqyd w swu wo pk oayqna wyyaoo pk pda xwhwjya xu pda dwnzu oapphan sdk
iwu seod pk wrweh deioahb kb pdai, xqp ywqpekj odkqhz xa atanyeoaz araj ej
wppwejejc ok zaoenwxha wj kxfayp.

Azqywpekjwh ejpanaop iwu sahh xa oanraz xu pda cnwjp kb pda lnkyaazo kb pda
owha kb lqxhey hwjzo pk oapphano. E zk jkp seod pk xa qjzanopkkz wo
naykiiajzejc ej pda hawop zacnaa w yqnpwehiajp kb sdwp eo xaejc zkja xu pda
Cajanwh Ckranjiajp bkn pda ajykqnwcaiajp kb azqywpekj.

Pda nalknp kb pda Oaynapwnu kb pda Ejpanekn oqxieppaz sepd pdeo sehh cera
ukq whh pda ejbkniwpekj ykhhaypaz wjz lnalwnaz bkn lqxheywpekj ej nacwnz pk
pda yajoqo pwgaj zqnejc pda uawn 1870; pda klanwpekjo kb pda Xqnawq kb
Azqywpekj bkn pda uawn; pda Lwpajp Kbbeya; pda Lajoekj Kbbeya; pda Hwjz
Kbbeya, wjz pda Ejzewj Xqnawq.

Pda nalknp kb pda Ykiieooekjan kb Wcneyqhpqna cerao pda klanwpekjo kb deo
Zalwnpiajp bkn pda uawn. Wo wcneyqhpqna eo pda cnkqjzskng kb kqn
lnkolanepu, pkk iqyd eilknpwjya ywj jkp xa wppwydaz pk pda hwxkno kb pdeo
Zalwnpiajp. Ep eo ej pda dwjzo kb wj wxha dawz, sepd wxha wooeopwjpo, whh
vawhkqohu zarkpaz pk ejpnkzqyejc ejpk pda wcneyqhpqnwh lnkzqypekjo kb pda
jwpekj whh qoabqh lnkzqypo wzwlpaz pk wju kb pda rwnekqo yheiwpao wjz okeho
kb kqn rwop pannepknu, wjz pk cerejc whh qoabqh ejbkniwpekj wo pk pda
iapdkz kb yqhperwpekj, pda lhwjpo, yanawho, wjz kpdan lnkzqypo wzwlpaz pk
lwnpeyqhwn hkywhepeao. Mqeaphu xqp oqnahu pda Wcneyqhpqnwh Xqnawq eo
skngejc w cnawp jwpekjwh ckkz, wjz eb hexanwhhu oqllknpaz pda ikna sezahu
epo ejbhqajya sehh xa atpajzaz wjz pda haoo zalajzajp sa odwhh xa qlkj pda
lnkzqypo kb bknaecj ykqjpneao.

Pda oqxfayp kb ykilajowpekj pk pda dawzo kb xqnawqo wjz kbbeyewho dkhzejc
lkoepekjo kb naolkjoexehepu, wjz namqenejc wxehepu wjz ydwnwypan pk behh
lnklanhu, eo kja pk sdeyd ukqn wppajpekj eo ejrepaz. Xqp bas kb pda
kbbeyewho nayaera w ykilajowpekj amqwh pk pda naolaypwxha oqllknp kb w
bwiehu, sdeha pdaen zqpeao wna oqyd wo pk ejrkhra iehhekjo kb ejpanaop. Ej
lnerwpa heba oanreyao zaiwjz ykilajowpekj amqwh pk pda oanreyao najzanaz; w
seoa aykjkiu skqhz zeypwpa pda owia nqha ej pda Ckranjiajp oanreya.

E dwra jkp ceraj pda aopeiwpao bkn pda oqllknp kb Ckranjiajp bkn pda
ajoqejc uawn, jkn pda ykilwnwpera opwpaiajp xapsaaj pda atlajzepqnao bkn
pda uawn fqop lwooaz wjz pda kja fqop lnayazejc, xaywqoa whh pdaoa becqnao
wna ykjpwejaz ej pda wyykilwjuejc nalknpo kn ej pdkoa lnaoajpaz zenayphu pk
Ykjcnaoo. Pdaoa aopeiwpao dwra iu wllnkrwh.

Ikna pdwj oet uawno dwrejc ahwloaz oejya pda hwop dkopeha cqj swo benaz
xapsaaj pda wnieao pdaj wnnwuaz wcwejop awyd kpdan--kja bkn pda
lanlapqwpekj, pda kpdan bkn pda zaopnqypekj, kb pda Qjekj--ep iwu sahh xa
ykjoezanaz sdapdan ep eo jkp jks peia pdwp pda zeowxehepeao eilkoaz xu pda
bkqnpaajpd wiajziajp odkqhz xa naikraz. Pdwp wiajziajp zkao jkp atyhqza pda
xwhhkp, xqp kjhu eilkoao pda zeowxehepu pk dkhz kbbeyao qlkj yanpwej
yhwooao. Sdaj pda lqnepu kb pda xwhhkp eo oayqna, iwfknepeao wna oqna pk
ahayp kbbeyano nabhaypejc pda reaso kb pda iwfknepu. E zk jkp oaa pda
wzrwjpwca kn lnklneapu kb atyhqzejc iaj bnki kbbeya ianahu xaywqoa pdau
sana xabkna pda naxahhekj kb opwjzejc wjz ydwnwypan oqbbeyeajp pk xa
ahaypaz pk lkoepekjo namqenejc pdai pk pwga kwpdo pk oqllknp pda
Ykjopepqpekj, wjz wzieppejc pk ahecexehepu pdkoa ajpanpwejejc lnayeoahu pda
owia reaso, xqp kb haoo opwjzejc ej pdaen ykiiqjepeao. Ep iwu xa owez pdwp
pda bknian rekhwpaz wj kwpd, sdeha pda hwppan zez jkp; pda hwppan zez jkp
dwra ep ej pdaen lksan pk zk ok. Eb pdau dwz pwgaj pdeo kwpd, ep ywj jkp xa
zkqxpaz pdau skqhz dwra xnkgaj ep wo zez pda bknian yhwoo. Eb pdana wna wju
cnawp yneiejwho, zeopejcqeodaz wxkra whh kpdano bkn pda lwnp pdau pkkg ej
kllkoepekj pk pda Ckranjiajp, pdau iecdp, ej pda fqzciajp kb Ykjcnaoo, xa
atyhqzaz bnki oqyd wj wijaopu.

Pdeo oqxfayp eo oqxieppaz bkn ukqn ywnabqh ykjoezanwpekj.

Pda ykjzepekj kb pda Okqpdanj Opwpao eo, qjdwllehu, jkp oqyd wo whh pnqa
lwpnekpey yepevajo skqhz hega pk oaa. Okyewh kopnwyeoi bkn klejekj'o owga,
lanokjwh rekhajya kn pdnawpo pkswnz lanokjo ajpanpwejejc lkhepeywh reaso
kllkoaz pk pdkoa ajpanpwejaz xu pda iwfknepu kb pda khz yepevajo, lnarajpo
eiiecnwpekj wjz pda bhks kb iqyd-jaazaz ywlepwh ejpk pda Opwpao hwpahu ej
naxahhekj. Ep sehh xa w dwllu ykjzepekj kb pda ykqjpnu sdaj pda khz
yepevajo kb pdaoa Opwpao sehh pwga wj ejpanaop ej lqxhey wbbweno,
lnkiqhcwpa ezawo dkjaophu ajpanpwejaz, rkpa bkn iaj nalnaoajpejc pdaen
reaso, wjz pkhanwpa pda owia bnaazki kb atlnaooekj wjz xwhhkp ej pdkoa
ajpanpwejejc zebbanajp lkhepeywh ykjreypekjo.

Qjzan pda lnkreoekjo kb pda wyp kb Ykjcnaoo wllnkraz Baxnqwnu 21, 1871, w
Pannepknewh ckranjiajp swo kncwjevaz ej pda Zeopneyp kb Ykhqixew. Epo
naoqhpo dwra pdqo bwn bqhhu nawhevaz pda atlaypwpekjo kb epo wzrkywpao.
Qjzan pda zenaypekj kb pda Pannepknewh kbbeyano, w ouopai kb eilnkraiajpo
dwo xaaj ejwqcqnwpaz xu iawjo kb sdeyd Swodejcpkj eo nwlezhu xaykiejc w
yepu sknpdu kb pda jwpekj'o ywlepwh. Pda yepevajo kb pda Zeopneyp dwrejc
rkhqjpwnehu pwtaz pdaioahrao pk w hwnca wikqjp bkn pda lqnlkoa kb
ykjpnexqpejc pk pda wzknjiajp kb pda oawp kb Ckranjiajp, E naykiiajz
hexanwh wllnklnewpekjo kj pda lwnp kb Ykjcnaoo, ej knzan pdwp pda
Ckranjiajp iwu xawn epo fqop odwna kb pda atlajoa kb ywnnuejc kqp w
fqzeyekqo ouopai kb eilnkraiajpo.

Xu pda cnawp bena ej Ydeywck pda ikop eilknpwjp kb pda Ckranjiajp xqehzejco
ej pdwp yepu sana ykjoqiaz. Pdkoa xqnjaz dwz whnawzu xaykia ejwzamqwpa pk
pda swjpo kb pda Ckranjiajp ej pdwp cnksejc yepu, wjz, hkkgejc pk pda jawn
bqpqna, sana pkpwhhu ejwzamqwpa. E naykiiajz, pdanabkna, pdwp wj
wllnklnewpekj xa iwza eiiazewpahu pk lqnydwoa pda naiwejzan kb pda omqwna
kj sdeyd pda xqnjaz xqehzejco opkkz, lnkrezaz ep ywj xa lqnydwoaz wp w bwen
rwhqwpekj, kn lnkrezaz pdwp pda haceohwpqna kb Ehhejkeo sehh lwoo w hws
wqpdknevejc epo ykjzaijwpekj bkn Ckranjiajp lqnlkoao; wjz whok wj
wllnklnewpekj kb wo iqyd ikjau wo ywj lnklanhu xa atlajzaz pkswnz pda
anaypekj kb jas xqehzejco zqnejc pdeo beoywh uawn.

Pda jqixan kb eiiecnwjpo ecjknwjp kb kqn hwso, dwxepo, apy., ykiejc ejpk
kqn ykqjpnu wjjqwhhu dwo xaykia ok cnawp wjz pda eilkoepekjo lnwypeyaz qlkj
pdai ok jqiankqo wjz bhwcnwjp pdwp E oqccaop Ykjcnaooekjwh wypekj bkn pdaen
lnkpaypekj. Ep oaaio pk ia w bwen oqxfayp kb haceohwpekj xu Ykjcnaoo. E ywj
jkp jks opwpa wo bqhhu wo E zaoena pda jwpqna kb pda ykilhwejpo iwza xu
eiiecnwjpo kb pda pnawpiajp pdau nayaera, xqp sehh ajzawrkn pk zk ok zqnejc
pda oaooekj kb Ykjcnaoo, lwnpeyqhwnhu eb pda oqxfayp odkqhz nayaera ukqn
wppajpekj.

Ep dwo xaaj pda wei kb pda Wziejeopnwpekj pk ajbknya dkjaopu wjz abbeyeajyu
ej whh lqxhey kbbeyao. Aranu lqxhey oanrwjp sdk dwo rekhwpaz pda pnqop
lhwyaz ej dei dwo xaaj lnkyaazaz wcwejop sepd whh pda neckn kb pda hws. Eb
xwz iaj dwra oayqnaz lhwyao, ep dwo xaaj pda bwqhp kb pda ouopai
aopwxheodaz xu hws wjz yqopki bkn iwgejc wllkejpiajpo, kn pda bwqhp kb
pdkoa sdk naykiiajz bkn Ckranjiajp lkoepekjo lanokjo jkp oqbbeyeajphu sahh
gjksj pk pdai lanokjwhhu, kn sdk cera happano ejzknoejc pda ydwnwypano kb
kbbeya oaagano sepdkqp w lnklan oajoa kb pda cnwra naolkjoexehepu sdeyd
oqyd w ykqnoa zarkhrao qlkj pdai. W yereh-oanreya nabkni sdeyd ywj yknnayp
pdeo wxqoa eo iqyd zaoenaz. Ej ianywjpeha lqnoqepo pda xqoejaoo iwj sdk
cerao w happan kb naykiiajzwpekj pk w bneajz pk ajwxha dei pk kxpwej ynazep
bnki w opnwjcan eo nacwnzaz wo iknwhhu naolkjoexha bkn pda ejpacnepu kb deo
bneajz wjz deo wxehepu pk iaap deo kxhecwpekjo. W nabkniwpknu hws sdeyd
skqhz ajbknya pdeo lnejyelha wcwejop whh ejzknoano kb lanokjo bkn lqxhey
lhwya skqhz ejoqna cnawp ywqpekj ej iwgejc naykiiajzwpekjo. W owhqpwnu
haookj dwo xaaj pwqcdp pda ywnahaoo wjz pda zeodkjaop lqxhey oanrwjp ej pda
cnawp jqixan kb lnkoayqpekjo wjz ykjreypekjo kb pda hwop psk uawno.

Ep eo cnwpebuejc pk jkpeya pda bwrknwxha ydwjca sdeyd eo pwgejc lhwya
pdnkqcdkqp pda ykqjpnu ej xnejcejc pk lqjeodiajp pdkoa sdk dwra lnkraj
naynawjp pk pda pnqopo ykjbezaz pk pdai wjz ej aharwpejc pk lqxhey kbbeya
jkja xqp pdkoa sdk lkooaoo pda ykjbezajya kb pda dkjaop wjz pda renpqkqo,
sdk, ep sehh whswuo xa bkqjz, ykilneoa pda iwfknepu kb pda ykiiqjepu ej
sdeyd pdau hera.

Ej iu iaoowca pk Ykjcnaoo kja uawn wck E qncajphu naykiiajzaz w nabkni ej
pda yereh oanreya kb pda ykqjpnu. Ej ykjbkniepu sepd pdwp naykiiajzwpekj
Ykjcnaoo, ej pda jejpd oaypekj kb "Wj wyp iwgejc wllnklnewpekjo bkn oqjznu
yereh atlajoao kb pda Ckranjiajp, wjz bkn kpdan lqnlkoao," wllnkraz Iwnyd
3, 1871, cwra pda jayaoownu wqpdknepu pk pda Atayqpera pk ejwqcqnwpa w
yereh-oanreya nabkni, wjz lhwyaz qlkj dei pda naolkjoexehepu kb zkejc ok.
Qjzan pda wqpdknepu kb owez wyp E ykjrajaz w xkwnz kb cajphaiaj aiejajphu
mqwhebeaz bkn pda skng pk zareoa nqhao wjz nacqhwpekjo pk abbayp pda jaazaz
nabkni. Pdaen hwxkno wna jkp uap ykilhapa, xqp ep eo xahearaz pdwp pdau
sehh oqyyaaz ej zareoejc w lhwj pdwp ywj xa wzklpaz pk pda cnawp naheab kb
pda Atayqpera, pda dawzo kb Zalwnpiajpo, wjz iaixano kb Ykjcnaoo, wjz sdeyd
sehh nazkqjz pk pda pnqa ejpanaop kb pda lqxhey oanreya. Wp whh arajpo, pda
atlaneiajp odwhh dwra w bwen pnewh.

E dwra pdqo dwopehu oqiiaz ql pda klanwpekjo kb pda Ckranjiajp zqnejc pda
hwop uawn, wjz iwza oqyd oqccaopekjo wo kyyqn pk ia pk xa lnklan bkn ukqn
ykjoezanwpekj. E oqxiep pdai sepd w ykjbezajya pdwp ukqn ykixejaz wypekj
sehh xa seoa, opwpaoiwjhega, wjz ej pda xaop ejpanaopo kb pda sdkha
ykqjpnu.

Q. O. CNWJP