ZE. FCRNXRE NAQ ZRZOREF BS GUR PBATERFF:

Vg vf n irel tengvslvat cevivyrtr gb pbzr gb gur Pbaterff jvgu gur Erchoyvp
ng crnpr jvgu nyy gur angvbaf bs gur jbeyq. Zber, vg vf rdhnyyl tengvslvat
gb ercbeg gung bhe pbhagel vf abg bayl serr sebz rirel vzcraqvat, zranpr bs
jne, ohg gurer ner tebjvat nffhenaprf bs gur creznarapl bs gur crnpr juvpu
jr fb qrrcyl purevfu.

Sbe nccebkvzngryl gra lrnef jr unir qjryg nzvq zranprf bs jne be nf
cnegvpvcnagf va jne'f npghnyvgvrf, naq gur varivgnoyr nsgrezngu, jvgu vgf
qvfbeqrerq pbaqvgvbaf, ovgf nqqrq gb gur qvssvphygvrf bs tbireazrag juvpu
nqrdhngryl pna abg or nccenvfrq rkprcg ol, gubfr jub ner va vzzrqvngr
pbagnpg naq xabj gur erfcbafvovyvgvrf. Bhe gnfxf jbhyq or yrff qvssvphyg vs
jr unq bayl bhefryirf gb pbafvqre, ohg fb zhpu bs gur jbeyq jnf vaibyirq,
gur qvfbeqrerq pbaqvgvbaf ner fb jryy-avtu havirefny, rira nzbat angvbaf
abg ratntrq va npghny jnesner, gung ab creznarag ernqwhfgzragf pna or
rssrpgrq jvgubhg pbafvqrengvba bs bhe varfpncnoyr eryngvbafuvc gb jbeyq
nssnvef va svanapr naq genqr. Vaqrrq, jr fubhyq or hajbegul bs bhe orfg
genqvgvbaf vs jr jrer hazvaqshy bs fbpvny, zbeny, naq cbyvgvpny pbaqvgvbaf
juvpu ner abg bs qverpg pbaprea gb hf, ohg juvpu qb nccrny gb gur uhzna
flzcnguvrf naq gur irel orpbzvat vagrerfg bs n crbcyr oyrfg jvgu bhe
angvbany tbbq sbeghar.

Vg vf abg zl checbfr gb oevat gb lbh n cebtenz bs jbeyq erfgbengvba. Va gur
znva fhpu n cebtenz zhfg or jbexrq bhg ol gur angvbaf zber qverpgyl
pbaprearq. Gurl zhfg gurzfryirf ghea gb gur urebvp erzrqvrf sbe gur
zranpvat pbaqvgvbaf haqre juvpu gurl ner fgehttyvat, gura jr pna uryc, naq
jr zrna gb uryc. Jr funyy qb fb hafrysvfuyl orpnhfr gurer vf pbzcrafngvba
va gur pbafpvbhfarff bs nffvfgvat, frysvfuyl orpnhfr gur pbzzrepr naq
vagreangvbany rkpunatrf va genqr, juvpu znexrq bhe uvtu gvqr bs sbeghangr
nqinaprzrag, ner cbffvoyr bayl jura gur angvbaf bs nyy pbagvaragf ner
erfgberq gb fgnoyr beqre naq abezny eryngvbafuvc.

Va gur znva gur pbagevohgvba bs guvf Erchoyvp gb erfgberq abeznypl va gur
jbeyq zhfg pbzr guebhtu gur vavgvngvir bs gur rkrphgvir oenapu bs gur
Tbireazrag, ohg gur orfg bs vagragvbaf naq zbfg pnershyyl pbafvqrerq
checbfrf jbhyq snvy hggreyl vs gur fnapgvba naq gur pbbcrengvba bs Pbaterff
jrer abg purreshyyl nppbeqrq.

V nz irel fher jr funyy unir ab pbasyvpg bs bcvavba nobhg pbafgvghgvbany
qhgvrf be nhgubevgl. Qhevat gur nakvrgvrf bs jne, jura arprffvgl frrzrq
pbzcryyvat gurer jrer rkprffvir tenagf bs nhgubevgl naq nyy rkgenbeqvanel
pbapragengvba bs cbjref va gur Puvrs Rkrphgvir. Gur ercrny bs jne-gvzr
yrtvfyngvba naq gur nhgbzngvp rkcvengvbaf juvpu nggraqrq gur crnpr
cebpynzngvbaf unir chg na raq gb gurfr rzretrapl rkprffrf ohg V unir gur
jvfu gb tb shegure guna gung. V jnag gb wbva lbh vyy erfgbevat-, vyy gur
zbfg pbeqvny jnl, gur fcvevg bs pbbeqvangvba naq pbbcrengvba, naq gung
zhghnyvgl bs pbasvqrapr naq erfcrpg juvpu vf arprffnel vyy ercerfragngvir
cbchyne tbireazrag.

Rapebnpuzrag hcba gur shapgvbaf bs Pbaterff be nggrzcgrq qvpgngvba bs vgf
cbyvpl ner abg gb or gubhtug bs, zhpu yrff nggrzcgrq, ohg gurer vf nyy
vafvfgrag pnyy sbe unezbal bs checbfr naq pbapbeq bs npgvba gb fcrrq gur
fbyhgvba bs gur qvssvphyg ceboyrzf pbasebagvat obgu gur yrtvfyngvir naq
rkrphgvir oenapurf bs gur Tbireazrag.

Vg vf jbegu juvyr gb znxr nyyhfvba urer gb gur punenpgre bs bhe Pybir
Tbireazrag, zvaqshy nf bar zhfg or gung na nqqerff gb lbh vf ab yrff vg
zrffntr gb nyy bhe crbcyr, sbe jubz lbh fcrnx zbfg vagvzngryl. Bhef vf vg
cbchyne Tbireazrag guebhtu cbyvgvpny cnegvrf. Jr qvivqr nybat cbyvgvpny
yvarf, naq V jbhyq rire unir vg fb. V qb abg zrna gung cnegvfna cersreraprf
fubhyq uvaqre nal choyvp freinag va gur cresbeznapr bs n pbafpvragvbhf naq
cngevbgvp bssvpvny qhgl. Jr fnj cnegvfna yvarf hggreyl boyvgrengrq jura jne
vzcrevyrq, naq bhe snvgu va gur Erchoyvp jnf evirgrq narj. Jr bhtug abg gb
svaq gurfr cnegvfna yvarf bofgehpgvat gur rkcrqvgvbhf fbyhgvba bs gur
hetrag ceboyrzf bs crnpr.

Tenagvat gung jr ner shaqnzragnyyl n ercerfragngvir cbchyne Tbireazrag,
jvgu cbyvgvpny cnegvrf gur tbireavat ntrapvrf, V oryvrir gur cbyvgvpny
cnegl va cbjre fubhyq nffhzr erfcbafvovyvgl, qrgrezvar hcba cbyvpvrf vyy
gur pbasrerapr juvpu fhccyrzragf pbairagvbaf naq ryrpgvba pnzcnvtaf, naq
gura fgevir sbe npuvrirzrag guebhtu nqurerapr gb gur npprcgrq cbyvpl.

Gurer vf infgyl terngre frphevgl, vzzrafryl zber bs gur angvbany
ivrjcbvag, zhpu ynetre naq cebzcgre nppbzcyvfuzrag jurer bhe qvivfvbaf ner
nybat cnegl yvarf, va gur oebnqre naq ybsgvre frafr, guna gb qvivqr
trbtencuvpnyyl, be nppbeqvat gb chefhvgf, be crefbany sbyybjvat. Sbe n
praghel naq n guveq, cnegvrf unir orra punetrq jvgu erfcbafvovyvgl naq uryq
gb fgevpg nppbhagvat. Jura gurl snvy, gurl ner eryvrirq bs nhgubevgl; naq
gur flfgrz unf oebhtug vgf gb n angvbany rzvarapr ab yrff guna n jbeyq
rknzcyr.

Arprffnevyl yrtvfyngvba vf n znggre bs pbzcebzvfr. Gur shyy vqrny vf fryqbz
nggnvarq. Va gung zrrgvat bs zvaqf arprffnel gb vafher erfhygf, gurer zhfg
naq jvyy or nppbzzbqngvbaf naq pbzcebzvfrf, ohg va gur rfgvzngr bs
pbaivpgvbaf naq fvaprer chg-cbfrf gur fhcerzr erfcbafvovyvgl gb angvbany
vagrerfg zhfg abg or vtaberq. Gur fuvryq gb gur uvtu-zvaqrq choyvp freinag
jub nqurerf gb cnegl cbyvpl vf znavsrfg, ohg gur uvture checbfr vf gur tbbq
bs gur Erchoyvp nf n jubyr.

Vg jbhyq or hatenpvbhf gb jvguubyq npxabjyrqtzrag bs gur ernyyl ynetr
ibyhzr naq rkpryyrag dhnyvgl bs jbex nppbzcyvfurq ol gur rkgenbeqvanel
frffvba bs Pbaterff juvpu fb erpragyl nqwbhearq. V nz abg hazvaqshy bs gur
irel qvssvphyg gnfxf jvgu juvpu lbh jrer pnyyrq gb qrny, naq ab bar pna
vtaber gur vafvfgrag pbaqvgvbaf juvpu, qhevat erprag lrnef, unir pnyyrq sbe
gur pbagvahrq naq nyzbfg rkpyhfvir nggragvba bs lbhe zrzorefuvc gb choyvp
jbex. Vg jbhyq fhttrfg vafvaprevgl vs V rkcerffrq pbzcyrgr nppbeq jvgu
rirel rkcerffvba erpbeqrq va lbhe ebyy pnyyf, ohg jr ner nyy nterrq nobhg
gur qvssvphygvrf naq gur varivgnoyr qviretrapr bs bcvavba va frrxvat gur
erqhpgvba, nzryvbengvba naq ernqwhfgzrag bs gur oheqraf bs gnkngvba. Yngre
ba, jura bgure ceboyrzf ner fbyirq, V funyy znxr fbzr erpbzzraqngvbaf nobhg
erarjrq pbafvqrengvba bs bhe gnk cebtenz, ohg sbe gur vzzrqvngr gvzr orsber
hf jr zhfg or pbagrag jvgu gur ovyyvba qbyyne erqhpgvba va gur gnk qensg
hcba gur crbcyr, naq qvzvavfurq veevgngvbaf, onavfurq hapregnvagl naq
vzcebirq zrgubqf bs pbyyrpgvba. Ol lbhe fhfgnvazrag bs gur evtvq rpbabzvrf
nyernql vanhthengrq, jvgu ubcrq-sbe rkgrafvba bs gurfr rpbabzvrf naq nqqrq
rssvpvrapvrf va nqzvavfgengvba, V oryvrir shegure erqhpgvbaf znl or ranpgrq
naq uvaqrevat oheqraf nobyvfurq.

Va gurfr hetrag rpbabzvrf jr funyy or vzzrafryl nffvfgrq ol gur ohqtrg
flfgrz sbe juvpu lbh znqr cebivfvba va gur rkgenbeqvanel frffvba. Gur svefg
ohqtrg vf orsber lbh. Vgf cercnengvba vf n fvtany npuvrirzrag, naq gur
cresrpgvba bs gur flfgrz, n guvat vzcbffvoyr va gur srj zbaguf ninvynoyr
sbe vgf vavgvny gevny, jvyy znex vgf ranpgzrag nf gur ortvaavat bs gur
terngrfg ersbezngvba va tbireazragny cenpgvprf fvapr gur ortvaavat bs gur
Erchoyvp.

Gurer vf craqvat n tenag bs nhgubevgl gb gur nqzvavfgengvir oenapu bs gur
Tbireazrag sbe gur shaqvat naq frggyrzrag bs bhe infg sbervta ybnaf tebjvat
bhg bs bhe tenag bs jne perqvgf. Jvgu gur unaqf bs gur rkrphgvir oenapu
uryq vzcbgrag gb qrny jvgu gurfr qrogf jr ner uvaqrevat hetrag
ernqwhfgzragf nzbat bhe qrogbef naq nppbzcyvfuvat abguvat sbe bhefryirf. V
guvax vg vf snve sbe gur Pbaterff gb nffhzr gung gur rkrphgvir oenapu bs
gur Tbireazrag jbhyq nqbcg ab znwbe cbyvpl va qrnyvat jvgu gurfr znggref
juvpu jbhyq pbasyvpg jvgu gur checbfr bs Pbaterff va nhgubevmvat gur ybnaf,
pregnvayl abg jvgubhg nfxvat pbaterffvbany nccebiny, ohg gurer ner zvabe
ceboyrzf vapvqrag gb cehqrag ybna genafnpgvbaf naq gur fnsrthneqvat bs bhe
vagrerfgf juvpu pna abg rira or nggrzcgrq jvgubhg guvf nhgubevmngvba. Vg
jvyy or urycshy gb bhefryirf naq vg jvyy vzcebir pbaqvgvbaf nzbat bhe
qrogbef vs shaqvat naq gur frggyrzrag bs qrsnhygrq vagrerfg znl or
artbgvngrq.

Gur cerivbhf Pbaterff, qrrcyl pbaprearq va orunys bs bhe zrepunag znevar,
va 1920 ranpgrq gur rkvfgvat fuvccvat ynj, qrfvtarq sbe gur hcohvyqvat bs
gur Nzrevpna zrepunag znevar. Nzbat bgure guvatf cebivqrq gb rapbhentr bhe
fuvccvat ba gur jbeyq'f frnf, gur Rkrphgvir jnf qverpgrq gb tvir abgvpr bs
gur grezvangvba bs nyy rkvfgvat pbzzrepvny gerngvrf va beqre gb nqzvg bs
erqhprq qhgvrf ba vzcbegf pneevrq va Nzrevpna obggbzf. Qhevat gur yvsr bs
gur npg ab Rkrphgvir unf pbzcyvrq jvgu guvf beqre bs gur Pbaterff. Jura gur
cerfrag nqzvavfgengvba pnzr vagb erfcbafvovyvgl vg ortna na rneyl vadhvel
vagb gur snvyher gb rkrphgr gur rkcerffrq checbfr bs gur Wbarf Npg. Bayl
bar pbapyhfvba unf orra cbffvoyr. Senaxyl, Zrzoref bs Ubhfr naq Frangr,
rntre vgf V nz gb wbva lbh va gur znxvat bs na Nzrevpna zrepunag znevar
pbzzrafhengr jvgu bhe pbzzrepr, gur qrabhaprzrag bs bhe pbzzrepvny
gerngvrf jbhyq vaibyir hf va n punbf bs genqr eryngvbafuvcf naq nqq
vaqrfpevonoyl gb gur pbashfvba bs gur nyernql qvfbeqrerq pbzzrepvny jbeyq.
Bhe cbjre gb qb fb vf abg qvfchgrq, ohg cbjre naq fuvcf, jvgubhg pbzvgl bs
eryngvbafuvc, jvyy abg tvir hf gur rkcnaqrq genqr juvpu vf vafrcnenoyl
yvaxrq jvgu n terng zrepunag znevar. Zberbire, gur nccyvrq erqhpgvba bs
qhgl, sbe juvpu gur gerngl qrabhaprzragf jrer arprffnel, rapbhentrq bayl
gur pneelvat bs qhgvnoyr vzcbegf gb bhe fuberf, juvyr gur gbaantr juvpu
hasheyf gur synt ba gur frnf vf obgu serr naq qhgvnoyr, naq gur pnetbrf
juvpu znxr vg angvba rzvarag va genqr ner bhgtbvat, engure guna vapbzvat.

Vg vf abg zl gubhtug gb ynl gur ceboyrz orsber lbh va qrgnvy gbqnl. Vg vf
qrfverq bayl gb fnl gb lbh gung gur rkrphgvir oenapu bs gur Tbireazrag,
havasyhraprq ol gur cebgrfg bs nal angvba, sbe abar unf orra znqr, vf jryy
pbaivaprq gung lbhe cebcbfny, uvtuyl vagraqrq naq urnegvyl fhccbegrq urer,
vf fb senhtug jvgu qvssvphygvrf naq fb znexrq ol graqrapvrf gb qvfpbhentr
genqr rkcnafvba, gung V vaivgr lbhe gbyrenapr bs abapbzcyvnapr sbe bayl n
srj jrrxf hagvy n cyna znl or cerfragrq juvpu pbagrzcyngrf ab terngre qensg
hcba gur Choyvp Gernfhel, naq juvpu, gubhtu lrg gbb pehqr gb bssre vg
gb-qnl, tvirf fhpu cebzvfr bs rkcnaqvat bhe zrepunag znevar, gung vg jvyy
nethr vgf bja nccebiny. Vg vf rabhtu gb fnl gb-qnl gung jr ner fb cbffrffrq
bs fuvcf, naq gur Nzrevpna vagragvba gb rfgnoyvfu vg zrepunag znevar vf fb
hanygrenoyr, gung n cynva bs ervzohefrzrag, ng ab bgure pbfg guna vf
pbagrzcyngrq va gur rkvfgvat npg, jvyy nccrny gb gur cevqr naq rapbhentr
gur ubcr bs nyy gur Nzrevpna crbcyr.

Gurer vf orsber lbh gur pbzcyrgvba bs gur ranpgzrag bs jung unf orra grezrq
n "creznarag" gnevss ynj, gur jbeq "creznarag" orvat hfrq gb qvfgvathvfu
vg sebz gur rzretrapl npg juvpu gur Pbaterff rkcrqvgrq rneyl va gur
rkgenbeqvanel frffvba, naq juvpu vf gur ynj gbqnl. V pna abg gbb fgebatyl
hetr va rneyl pbzcyrgvba bs guvf arprffnel yrtvfyngvba Vg vf arrqrq gb
fgnovyvmr bhe vaqhfgel ng ubzr; vg vf rffragvny gb znxr zber qrsvavgr bhe
genqr eryngvbaf noebnq. Zber, vg vf ivgny gb gur cerfreingvba bs znal bs
bhe bja vaqhfgevrf juvpu pbagevohgr fb abgnoyl gb gur irel yvsroybbq bs bhe
Angvba.

Gurer vf abj, naq gurer nyjnlf jvyy or, n fgbez bs pbasyvpgvat bcvavba
nobhg nal gnevss erivfvba. Jr pna abg tb sne jebat jura jr onfr bhe gnevssf
ba gur cbyvpl bs cerfreivat gur cebqhpgvir npgvivgvrf juvpu raunapr
rzcyblzrag naq nqq gb bhe angvbany cebfcrevgl.

Ntnva pbzrf gur erzvaqre gung jr zhfg abg or hazvaqshy bs jbeyq pbaqvgvbaf,
gung crbcyrf ner fgehttyvat sbe vaqhfgevny erunovyvgngvba naq gung jr pna
abg qjryy va vaqhfgevny naq pbzzrepvny rkpyhfvba naq ng gur fnzr gvzr qb
gur whfg guvat va nvqvat jbeyq erpbafgehpgvba naq ernqwhfgzrag. Jr qb abg
frrx n frysvfu nybbsarff, naq jr pbhyq abg cebsvg ol vg, jrer vg cbffvoyr.
Jr erpbtavmr gur arprffvgl bs ohlvat jurerire jr fryy, naq gur creznarapl
bs genqr yvrf va vgf npprcgnoyr rkpunatrf. Va bhe chefhvg bs znexrgf jr
zhfg tvir nf jryy nf erprvir. Jr pna abg fryy gb bguref jub qb abg cebqhpr,
abe pna jr ohl hayrff jr cebqhpr ng ubzr. Frafvoyr bs rirel boyvtngvba bs
uhznavgl, pbzzrepr naq svanapr, yvaxrq nf gurl ner va gur cerfrag jbeyq
pbaqvgvba, vg vf abg gb or nethrq gung jr arrq qrfgebl bhefryirf gb or
urycshy gb bguref. Jvgu nyy zl urneg V jvfu erfgbengvba gb gur crbcyrf
oyvtugrq ol gur njshy Jbeyq Jne, ohg gur cebprff bs erfgbengvba qbrf abg
yvr va bhe npprcgnapr bs yvxr pbaqvgvbaf. Vg jrer orggre gb, erznva ba svez
tebhaq, fgevir sbe nzcyr rzcyblzrag naq uvtu fgnaqneqf bs jntr ng ubzr, naq
cbvag gur jnl gb onynaprq ohqtrgf, evtvq rpbabzvrf, naq erfbyhgr, rssvpvrag
jbex nf gur arprffnel erzrqvrf gb pher qvfnfgre.

Rirelguvat eryngvat gb genqr, nzbat bhefryirf naq nzbat angvbaf, unf orra
rkcnaqrq, rkprffvir, vasyngrq, noabezny, naq gurer vf n znqarff va svanapr
juvpu ab Nzrevpna cbyvpl nybar jvyy pher. Jr ner n perqvgbe Angvba, abg ol
abezny cebprffrf, ohg znqr fb ol jne. Vg vf abg na hajbegul frysvfuarff gb
frrx gb fnir bhefryirf, jura gur cebprffrf bs gung fnyingvba ner abg bayl
abg qravrq gb bguref, ohg pbzzraqrq gb gurz. Jr frrx gb haqrezvar sbe
bguref ab vaqhfgel ol juvpu gurl fhofvfg; jr ner boyvtngrq gb crezvg gur
haqrezvavat bs abar bs bhe bja juvpu znxr sbe rzcyblzrag naq znvagnvarq
npgvivgvrf.

Rirel pbagrzcyngvba, vg yvggyr znggref va juvpu qverpgvba bar gheaf,
zntavsvrf gur qvssvphygl bs gnevss yrtvfyngvba, ohg gur arprffvgl bs gur
erivfvba vf zntavsvrq jvgu vg. Qbhogyrff jr ner whfgvsvrq va frrxvat vg.
Zber syrkvoyr cbyvpl guna jr unir cebivqrq urergbsber. V ubcr n jnl jvyy or
sbhaq gb znxr sbe syrkvovyvgl naq rynfgvpvgl, fb gung engrf znl or nqwhfgrq
gb zrrg hahfhny naq punatvat pbaqvgvbaf juvpu pna abg or npphengryl
nagvpvcngrq. Gurer ner ceboyrzf vapvqrag gb hasnve cenpgvprf, naq gb
rkpunatrf juvpu znqarff va zbarl unir znqr nyzbfg hafbyinoyr. V xabj bs ab
znaare va juvpu gb rssrpg guvf syrkvovyvgl bgure guna gur rkgrafvba bs gur
cbjref bs gur Gnevss Pbzzvffvba fb gung vg pna nqncg vgfrys gb vg
fpvragvsvp naq jubyyl whfg nqzvavfgengvba bs gur ynj.

V nz abg hazvaqshy bs gur pbafgvghgvbany qvssvphygvrf. Gurfr pna or zrg ol
tvivat nhgubevgl gb gur Puvrs Rkrphgvir, jub pbhyq cebpynvz-nqqvgvbany
qhgvrf gb zrrg pbaqvgvbaf juvpu gur Pbaterff znl qrfvtangr.

Ng guvf cbvag V zhfg qvfnibj nal qrfver gb raynetr gur Rkrphgvir'f cbjref
be nqq gb gur erfcbafvovyvgvrf bs gur bssvpr. Gurl ner nyernql gbb ynetr.
Vs gurer jrer nal bgure cyna V jbhyq cersre vg.

Gur tenag bs nhgubevgl gb cebpynvz jbhyq arprffnevyl oevat gur Gnevss
Pbzzvffvba vagb arj naq raynetrq npgvivgvrf, orpnhfr ab Rkrphgvir pbhyq
qvfpunetr fhpu n qhgl rkprcg hcba gur vasbezngvba npdhverq naq
erpbzzraqngvbaf znqr ol guvf pbzzvffvba. Ohg gur cyna vf srnfvoyr, naq gur
cebcre shapgvbavat bs gur obneq jbhyq tvir vgf vg orggre nqzvavfgengvba bs
n qrsvarq cbyvpl guna rire pna or znqr cbffvoyr ol gnevss qhgvrf cerfpevorq
jvgubhg syrkvovyvgl.

Gurer vf n znavsrfg qvssrerapr bs bcvavba nobhg gur zrevgf bs Nzrevpna
inyhngvba. Znal angvbaf unir nqbcgrq qryvirel inyhngvba nf gur onfvf sbe
pbyyrpgvat qhgvrf; gung vf, gurl gnxr gur pbfg bs gur vzcbegf qryvirerq ng
gur cbeg bs ragel nf gur onfvf sbe yrilvat qhgl. Vg vf ab enqvpny
qrcnegher, va ivrj bs inelvat pbaqvgvbaf naq gur qvfbeqrerq fgngr bs zbarl
inyhrf, gb cebivqr sbe Nzrevpna inyhngvba, ohg gurer pna abg or vtaberq gur
qnatre bs fhpu n inyhngvba, oebhtug gb gur yriry bs bhe bja cebqhpgvba
pbfgf, znxvat bhe gnevssf cebuvovgvir. Vg zvtug qb fb va znal vafgnaprf
jurer vzcbegf bhtug gb or rapbhentrq. V oryvrir Pbaterff bhtug jryy
pbafvqre gur qrfvenovyvgl bs gur bayl cebzvfvat nygreangvir, anzryl, n
cebivfvba nhgubevmvat cebpynvzrq Nzrevpna inyhngvba, haqre cerfpevorq
pbaqvgvbaf, ba nal tvira yvfg bs negvpyrf vzcbegrq.

Va guvf cebcbfrq syrkvovyvgl, nhgubevmvat vapernfrf gb zrrg pbaqvgvbaf fb
yvxryl gb punatr, gurer fubhyq nyfb or cebivfvba sbe qrpernfrf. N engr znl
or whfg gb-qnl, naq ragveryl bhg bs cebcbegvba fvk zbaguf sebz gb-qnl. Vs
bhe gnevssf ner gb or znqr rdhvgnoyr, naq abg arprffnevyl oheqra bhe
vzcbegf naq uvaqre bhe genqr noebnq, serdhrag nqwhfgzrag jvyy or arprffnel
sbe lrnef gb pbzr. Xabjvat gur vzcbffvovyvgl bs zbqvsvpngvba ol npg bs
Pbaterff sbe nal bar be n fpber bs yvarf jvgubhg vaibyivat n ybat neenl bs
fpurqhyrf, V guvax jr funyy tb n ybat jnlf gbjneq fgnovyvmngvba, vs gurer
vf erpbtavgvba bs gur Gnevss Pbzzvffvba'f svgarff gb erpbzzraq hetrag
punatrf ol cebpynzngvba.

V nz fher nobhg choyvp bcvavba snibevat gur rneyl qrgrezvangvba bs bhe
gnevss cbyvpl. Gurer unir orra ernffhevat fvtaf bs n ohfvarff eriviny sebz
gur qrrc fyhzc juvpu nyy gur jbeyq unf orra rkcrevrapvat. Bhe harzcyblzrag,
juvpu tnir vgf qrrc pbaprea bayl n srj jrrxf ntb, unf tebja rapbhentvatyl
yrff, naq arj nffhenaprf naq erarjrq pbasvqrapr jvyy nggraq gur
pbaterffvbany qrpynengvba gung Nzrevpna vaqhfgel jvyy or uryq frpher.

Zhpu unf orra fnvq nobhg gur cebgrpgvir cbyvpl sbe bhefryirf znxvat vg
vzcbffvoyr sbe bhe qrogbef gb qvfpunetr gurve boyvtngvbaf gb hf. Guvf vf n
pbagragvba abg abj cerffvat sbe qrpvfvba. Vs jr zhfg pubbfr orgjrra n
crbcyr va vqyrarff cerffvat sbe gur cnlzrag bs vaqrogrqarff, be n crbcyr
erfhzvat gur abezny jnlf bs rzcyblzrag naq pneelvat gur perqvg, yrg hf
pubbfr gur ynggre. Fbzrgvzrf jr nccenvfr ynetrfg gur uhzna vyy zbfg ivivq
va bhe zvaqf. Jr unir orra tvivat, naq ner tvivat abj, bs bhe vasyhrapr naq
nccrnyf gb zvavzvmr gur yvxryvubbq bs jne naq guebj bss gur pehfuvat
oheqraf bs neznzrag. Vg vf nyy irel rnearfg, jvgu n angvbany fbhy
vzcryyvat. Ohg n crbcyr harzcyblrq, naq tnhag jvgu uhatre, snpr n fvghngvba
dhvgr nf qvfurnegravat nf jne, naq bhe terngre boyvtngvba gb-qnl vf gb qb
gur Tbireazrag'f cneg gbjneq erfhzvat cebqhpgvivgl naq cebzbgvat sbeghangr
naq erzharengvir rzcyblzrag.

Fbzrguvat zber guna gnevss cebgrpgvba vf erdhverq ol Nzrevpna ntevphygher.
Gb gur snezre unf pbzr gur rneyvre naq gur urnivre oheqraf bs ernqwhfgzrag.
Gurer vf npghny qrcerffvba va bhe ntevphygheny vaqhfgel, juvyr ntevphygheny
cebfcrevgl vf nofbyhgryl rffragvny gb gur trareny cebfcrevgl bs gur
pbhagel.

Pbaterff unf fbhtug irel rnearfgyl gb cebivqr eryvrs. Vg unf cebzcgyl tvira
fhpu grzcbenel eryvrs nf unf orra cbffvoyr, ohg gur pnyy vf vafvfgrag sbe
gur creznarag fbyhgvba. Vg vf varivgnoyr gung ynetr pebcf ybjre gur cevprf
naq fubeg pebcf nqinapr gurz. Ab yrtvfyngvba pna pher gung shaqnzragny ynj.
Ohg gurer zhfg or fbzr rpbabzvp fbyhgvba sbe gur rkprffvir inevngvba va
ergheaf sbe ntevphygheny cebqhpgvba.

Vg vf engure fubpxvat gb or gbyq, naq gb unir gur fgngrzrag fgebatyl
fhccbegrq, gung 9,000,000 onyrf bs pbggba, envfrq ba Nzrevpna cynagngvbaf
va n tvira lrne, jvyy npghnyyl or jbegu zber gb gur cebqhpref guna
13,000,000 onyrf jbhyq unir orra. Rdhnyyl fubpxvat vf gur fgngrzrag gung
700,000,000 ohfuryf bs jurng, envfrq ol Nzrevpna snezref, jbhyq oevat gurz
zber zbarl guna n ovyyvba ohfuryf. Lrg gurfr ner abg rknttrengrq
fgngrzragf. Va n jbeyq jurer gurer ner graf bs zvyyvbaf jub arrq sbbq naq
pybguvat juvpu gurl pna abg trg, fhpu n pbaqvgvba vf fher gb vaqvpg gur
fbpvny flfgrz juvpu znxrf vg cbffvoyr.

Va gur znva gur erzrql yvrf va qvfgevohgvba naq znexrgvat. Rirel cebcre
rapbhentrzrag fubhyq or tvira gb gur pbbcrengvir znexrgvat cebtenzf. Gurfr
unir cebira irel urycshy gb gur pbbcrengvat pbzzhavgvrf va Rhebcr. Va
Ehffvn gur pbbcrengvir pbzzhavgl unf orpbzr gur erpbtavmrq ohyjnex bs ynj
naq beqre, naq fnirq vaqvivqhnyvfz sebz rathyszrag va fbpvny cnenylfvf.
Hygvzngryl gurl jvyy or npperqvgrq jvgu gur fnyingvba bs gur Ehffvna
Fgngr.

Gurer vf gur nccrny sbe guvf rkcrevzrag. Jul abg gel vg? Ab bar punyyratrf
gur evtug bs gur snezre gb n ynetre funer bs gur pbafhzre'f cnl sbe uvf
cebqhpg, ab bar qvfchgrf gung jr pna abg yvir jvgubhg gur snezre. Ur vf
whfgvsvrq va eroryyvat ntnvafg gur genafcbegngvba pbfg. Tvira n snve
erghea sbe uvf ynobe, ur jvyy unir yrff bppnfvba gb nccrny sbe svanapvny
nvq; naq tvira nffhenapr gung uvf ynobef funyy abg or va inva, jr ernffher
nyy gur crbcyr bs n cebqhpgvba fhssvpvrag gb zrrg bhe Angvbany erdhverzrag
naq thneq ntnvafg qvfnfgre.

Gur onfr bs gur clenzvq bs pvivyvmngvba juvpu erfgf hcba gur fbvy vf
fuevaxvat guebhtu gur qevsg bs cbchyngvba sebz snez gb pvgl. Sbe n
trarengvba jr unir orra rkcerffvat zber be yrff pbaprea nobhg guvf
graqrapl. Rpbabzvfgf unir jnearq naq fgngrfzra unir qrcyberq. Jr gubhtug
sbe ng gvzr gung zbqrea pbairavraprf naq gur zber vagvzngr pbagnpg jbhyq
unyg gur zbirzrag, ohg vg unf tbar fgrnqvyl ba. Creuncf bayl tevz arprffvgl
jvyy pbeerpg vg, ohg jr bhtug gb svaq n yrff qenfgvp erzrql.

Gur rkvfgvat fpurzr bs nqwhfgvat servtug engrf uvgf orra snibevat gur
onfvat cbvagf, hagvy vaqhfgevrf ner nggenpgrq gb fbzr pragref naq ercryyrq
sebz bguref. N terng ibyhzr bs harpbabzvp naq jnfgrshy genafcbegngvba unf
nggraqrq, naq gur pbfg vapernfrq nppbeqvatyl. Gur tenva-zvyyvat naq
zrng-cnpxvat vaqhfgevrf nssbeq nzcyr vyyhfgengvba, naq gur nggraqvat
pbapragengvba vf ernqvyl nccnerag. Gur zranprf va pbapragengvba ner abg
yvzvgrq gb gur ergneqvatyl vasyhraprf ba ntevphygher. Znavsrfgyl gur.
pbaqvgvbaf naq grezf bs envyjnl genafcbegngvba bhtug abg or crezvggrq gb
vapernfr guvf haqrfvenoyr graqrapl. Jr unir n whfg cevqr va bhe terng
pvgvrf, ohg jr funyy svaq n terngre cevqr va gur Angvba, juvpu unf vg
ynetre qvfgevohgvba bs vgf cbchyngvba vagb gur pbhagel, jurer pbzcnengviryl
frys-fhssvpvrag fznyyre pbzzhavgvrf znl oyraq ntevphygheny naq
znahsnpghevat vagrerfgf va unezbavbhf urycshyarff naq raunaprq tbbq
sbeghar. Fhpu n zbirzrag pbagrzcyngrf ab qrfgehpgvba bs guvatf jebhtug, bs
vairfgzragf znqr, be jrnygu vaibyirq. Vg bayl ybbxf gb n trareny cbyvpl bs
genafcbegngvba bs qvfgevohgrq vaqhfgel, naq bs uvtujnl pbafgehpgvba, gb
rapbhentr gur fcernq bs bhe cbchyngvba naq erfgber gur cebcre onynapr
orgjrra pvgl naq pbhagel. Gur ceboyrz znl jryy unir lbhe rnearfg
nggragvba.

Vg unf orra creuncf gur cebhqrfg pynvz bs bhe Nzrevpna pvivyvmngvba gung va
qrnyvat jvgu uhzna eryngvbafuvcf vg unf pbafgnagyl zbirq gbjneq fhpu
whfgvpr va qvfgevohgvat gur cebqhpg bs uhzna raretl gung vg unf vzcebirq
pbagvahbhfyl gur rpbabzvp fgnghf bs gur znff bs crbcyr. Bhef unf orra n
uvtuyl cebqhpgvir fbpvny betnavmngvba. Ba gur jnl hc sebz gur ryrzragny
fgntrf bs fbpvrgl jr unir ryvzvangrq fynirel naq fresqbz naq ner abj sne ba
gur jnl gb gur ryvzvangvba bs cbiregl.

Guebhtu gur renqvpngvba bs vyyvgrenpl naq gur qvsshfvba bs rqhpngvba
znaxvaq unf ernpurq n fgntr jurer jr znl snveyl fnl gung va gur Havgrq
Fgngrf rdhnyvgl bs bccbeghavgl unf orra nggnvarq, gubhtu nyy ner abg
cercnerq gb rzoenpr vg. Gurer vf, vaqrrq, n gbb terng qviretrapr orgjrra
gur rpbabzvp pbaqvgvbaf bs gur zbfg naq gur yrnfg sniberq pynffrf va gur
pbzzhavgl. Ohg rira gung qviretrapr unf abj pbzr gb gur cbvag jurer jr
oenpxrg gur irel cbbe naq gur irel evpu gbtrgure nf gur yrnfg sbeghangr
pynffrf. Bhe rssbegf znl jryy or qverpgrq gb vzcebivat gur fgnghf bs obgu.

Juvyr guvf frg bs ceboyrzf vf pbzzbayl pbzceruraqrq haqre gur trareny
cuenfr "Pncvgny naq ynobe," vg vf ernyyl infgyl oebnqre. Vg vf n dhrfgvba
bs fbpvny naq rpbabzvp betnavmngvba. Ynobe unf orpbzr n ynetr pbagevohgbe,
guebhtu vgf fnivatf, gb gur fgbpx bs pncvgny; juvyr gur crbcyr jub bja gur
ynetrfg vaqvivqhny nttertngrf bs pncvgny ner gurzfryirf bsgra uneq naq
rnearfg ynoberef. Irel bsgra vg vf rkgerzryl qvssvphyg gb qenj gur yvar bs
qrznepngvba orgjrra gur gjb tebhcf; gb qrgrezvar jurgure n cnegvphyne
vaqvivqhny vf ragvgyrq gb or frg qbja nf ynobere be nf pncvgnyvfg. Va n
irel ynetr cebcbegvba bs pnfrf ur vf obgu, naq jura ur vf obgu ur vf gur
zbfg hfrshy pvgvmra.

Gur evtug bs ynobe gb betnavmr vf whfg nf shaqnzragny naq arprffnel nf vf
gur evtug bs pncvgny gb betnavmr. Gur evtug bs ynobe gb artbgvngr, gb qrny
jvgu naq fbyir vgf cnegvphyne ceboyrzf va na betnavmrq jnl, guebhtu vgf
pubfra ntragf, vf whfg nf rffragvny nf vf gur evtug bs pncvgny gb betnavmr,
gb znvagnva pbecbengvbaf, gb yvzvg gur yvnovyvgvrf bs fgbpxubyqref. Vaqrrq,
jr unir pbzr gb erpbtavmr gung gur yvzvgrq yvnovyvgl bs gur pvgvmra nf n
zrzore bs n ynobe betnavmngvba pybfryl cnenyyryf gur yvzvgngvba bs
yvnovyvgl bs gur pvgvmra nf n fgbpxubyqre va n pbecbengvba sbe cebsvg.
Nybat guvf yvar bs ernfbavat jr funyy znxr gur terngrfg cebterff gbjneq
fbyhgvba bs bhe ceboyrz bs pncvgny naq ynobe.

Va gur pnfr bs gur pbecbengvba juvpu rawblf gur cevivyrtr bs yvzvgrq
yvnovyvgl bs fgbpxubyqref, cnegvphyneyl jura ratntrq va va gur choyvp
freivpr, vg vf erpbtavmrq gung gur bhgfvqr choyvp unf n ynetr pbaprea
juvpu zhfg or cebgrpgrq; naq fb jr cebivqr erthyngvbaf, erfgevpgvbaf, naq
va fbzr pnfrf qrgnvyrq fhcreivfvba. Yvxrjvfr va gur pnfr bs ynobe
betnavmngvbaf, jr zvtug jryy nccyl fvzvyne naq rdhnyyl jryy-qrsvarq
cevapvcyrf bs erthyngvba naq fhcreivfvba va beqre gb pbafreir gur choyvp'f
vagrerfgf nf nssrpgrq ol gurve bcrengvbaf.

Whfg nf vg vf abg qrfvenoyr gung n pbecbengvba funyy or nyybjrq gb vzcbfr
haqhr rknpgvbaf hcba gur choyvp, fb vg vf abg qrfvenoyr gung n ynobe
betnavmngvba funyy or crezvggrq gb rknpg hasnve grezf bs rzcyblzrag be
fhowrpg gur choyvp gb npghny qvfgerffrf va beqre gb rasbepr vgf grezf.
Svanyyl, whfg nf jr ner rnearfgyl frrxvat sbe cebprqherf jurerol gb nqwhfg
naq frggyr cbyvgvpny qvssreraprf orgjrra angvbaf jvgubhg erfbeg gb jne, fb
jr znl jryy ybbx nobhg sbe zrnaf gb frggyr gur qvssreraprf orgjrra
betnavmrq pncvgny naq betnavmrq ynobe jvgubhg erfbeg gb gubfr sbezf bs
jnesner juvpu jr erpbtavmr haqre gur anzr bs fgevxrf, ybpxbhgf, oblpbggf,
naq gur yvxr.

Nf jr unir terng obqvrf bs ynj pnershyyl erthyngvat gur betnavmngvba naq
bcrengvbaf bs vaqhfgevny naq svanapvny pbecbengvbaf, nf jr unir gerngvrf
naq pbzcnpgf nzbat angvbaf juvpu ybbx gb gur frggyrzrag bs qvssreraprf
jvgubhg gur arprffvgl bs pbasyvpg va nezf, fb jr zvtug jryy unir cynaf bs
pbasrerapr, bs pbzzba pbhafry, bs zrqvngvba, neovgengvba, naq whqvpvny
qrgrezvangvba va pbagebirefvrf orgjrra ynobe naq pncvgny. Gb nppbzcyvfu
guvf jbhyq vaibyir gur arprffvgl gb qrirybc n gubebhtutbvat pbqr bs
cenpgvpr va qrnyvat jvgu fhpu nssnvef Vg zvtug or jryy gb senaxyl frg sbegu
gur fhcrevbe vagrerfg bs gur pbzzhavgl nf n jubyr gb rvgure gur ynobe tebhc
be gur pncvgny tebhc. Jvgu evtugf, cevivyrtrf, vzzhavgvrf, naq zbqrf bs
betnavmngvba guhf pnershyyl qrsvarq, vg fubhyq or cbffvoyr gb frg hc
whqvpvny be dhnfv whqvpvny gevohanyf sbe gur pbafvqrengvba naq
qrgrezvangvba bs nyy qvfchgrf juvpu zranpr gur choyvp jrysner.

Va na vaqhfgevny fbpvrgl fhpu nf bhef gur fgevxr, gur ybpxbhg, naq gur
oblpbgg ner nf zhpu bhg bs cynpr naq nf qvfnfgebhf va gurve erfhygf nf vf
jne be nezrq eribyhgvba va gur qbznva bs cbyvgvpf. Gur fnzr qvfcbfvgvba gb
ernfbanoyrarff, gb pbapvyvngvba, gb erpbtavgvba bs gur bgure fvqr'f cbvag
bs ivrj, gur fnzr cebivfvba bs snve naq erpbtavmrq gevohanyf naq cebprffrf,
bhtug gb znxr vg cbffvoyr gb fbyir gur bar frg bs dhrfgvbaf vgf rnfvyl nf
gur bgure. V oryvrir gur fbyhgvba vf cbffvoyr.

Gur pbafvqrengvba bs fhpu n cbyvpl jbhyq arprffvgngr gur rkrepvfr bs pner
naq qryvorengvba va gur pbafgehpgvba bs n pbqr naq n punegre bs ryrzragny
evtugf, qrnyvat jvgu gur eryngvbaf bs rzcyblre naq rzcyblrr. Guvf
sbhaqngvba va gur ynj, qrnyvat jvgu gur zbqrea pbaqvgvbaf bs fbpvny naq
rpbabzvp yvsr, jbhyq unfgra gur ohvyqvat bs gur grzcyr bs crnpr va vaqhfgel
juvpu n erwbvpvat angvba jbhyq nppynvz.

Nsgre rnpu jne, hagvy gur ynfg, gur Tbireazrag unf orra ranoyrq gb tvir
ubzrf gb vgf erghearq fbyqvref, naq n ynetr cneg bs bhe frggyrzrag naq
qrirybczrag unf nggraqrq guvf trarebhf cebivfvba bs ynaq sbe gur Angvba'f
qrsraqref.

Gurer vf lrg haerfreirq nccebkvzngryl 200,000,000 nperf va gur choyvp
qbznva, 20,000,000 nperf bs juvpu ner xabja gb or fhfprcgvoyr bs
erpynzngvba naq znqr svg sbe ubzrf ol cebivfvba sbe veevtngvba.

Gur Tbireazrag unf orra nffvfgvat va gur qrirybczrag bs vgf erznvavat
ynaqf, hagvy gur rfgvzngrq vapernfr va ynaq inyhrf va gur veevtngrq
frpgvbaf vf shyy $500,000,000 naq gur pebcf bs 1920 nybar ba gurfr ynaqf
ner rfgvzngrq gb rkprrq $100,000,000. Haqre gur ynj nhgubevmngvba gurfr
rkcraqvgherf sbe qrirybczrag gur nqinaprf ner gb or erghearq naq vg jbhyq
or tbbq ohfvarff sbe gur Tbireazrag gb cebivqr sbe gur erpynzngvba bs gur
erznvavat 20,000,000 nperf, va nqqvgvba gb rkcrqvgvat gur pbzcyrgvba bs
cebwrpgf ybat haqre jnl.

Haqre jung vf xabja nf gur pbny naq tnf yrnfr ynj, nccyvpnoyr nyfb gb
qrcbfvgf bs cubfcungrf naq bgure zvarenyf ba gur choyvp qbznva, yrnfrf ner
abj orvat znqr ba gur eblnygl onfvf, naq ner cebqhpvat ynetr erirahrf gb
gur Tbireazrag. Haqre guvf yrtvfyngvba, 10 cre praghz bs nyy eblnygvrf vf
gb or cnvq qverpgyl gb gur Srqreny Gernfhel, naq bs gur erznvaqre 50 cre
praghz vf gb or hfrq sbe erpynzngvba bs nevq ynaqf ol veevtngvba, naq 40
cre praghz vf gb or cnvq gb gur Fgngrf, va juvpu gur bcrengvbaf ner
ybpngrq, gb or hfrq ol gurz sbe fpubby naq ebnq checbfrf.

Gurfr erfbheprf ner fb infg, naq gur qrirybczrag vf nssbeqvat fb eryvnoyr n
onfvf bs rfgvzngr, gung gur Vagrevbe Qrcnegzrag rkcerffrf gur oryvrs gung
hygvzngryl gur cerfrag ynj jvyy nqq va eblnygvrf naq cnlzragf gb gur
gernfhevrf bs gur Srqreny Tbireazrag naq gur Fgngrf pbagnvavat gurfr choyvp
ynaqf n gbgny bs $12,000,000,000. Guvf zrnaf, bs pbhefr, na nqqrq jrnygu bs
znal gvzrf gung fhz. Gurfr cebfcrpgf frrz gb nssbeq rirel whfgvsvpngvba bs
Tbireazrag nqinaprf va erpynzngvba naq veevtngvba.

Pbagrzcyngvat gur varivgnoyr naq qrfvenoyr vapernfr bs cbchyngvba, gurer vf
nabgure cunfr bs erpynzngvba shyy jbegul bs pbafvqrengvba. Gurer ner
79,000,000 nperf bs fjnzc naq phg-bire ynaqf juvpu znl or erpynvzrq naq
znqr nf inyhnoyr nf nal snez ynaqf jr cbffrff. Gurfr nperf ner ynetryl
ybpngrq va Fbhgurea Fgngrf, naq gur terngre cebcbegvba vf bjarq ol gur
Fgngrf be ol cevingr pvgvmraf. Pbaterff unf n ercbeg bs gur fheirl bs guvf
svryq sbe erpynzngvba, naq gur srnfvovyvgl vf rfgnoyvfurq. V tynqyl pbzzraq
Srqreny nvq, ol jnl bs nqinaprf, jurer Fgngr naq cevingr cnegvpvcngvba vf
nffherq.

Ubzr znxvat vf bar bs gur terngre orarsvgf juvpu tbireazrag pna orfgbj.
Zrnfherf ner craqvat rzobqlvat guvf fbhaq cbyvpl gb juvpu jr znl jryy
nqurer. Vg vf rnfvyl cbffvoyr gb znxr ninvynoyr creznarag ubzrf juvpu jvyy
cebivqr, va ghea, sbe cebfcrebhf Nzrevpna snzvyvrf, jvgubhg vawhevbhf
pbzcrgvgvba jvgu rfgnoyvfurq npgvivgvrf, be vzcbfvgvba ba jrnygu nyernql
npdhverq.

Juvyr jr ner guvaxvat bs cebzbgvat gur sbegharf bs bhe bja crbcyr V nz fher
gurer vf ebbz va gur flzcngurgvp gubhtug bs Nzrevpn sbe sryybj uhzna orvatf
jub ner fhssrevat naq qlvat bs fgneingvba va Ehffvn. N frirer qebhtug va
gur Inyyrl bs gur Ibytn unf cyhatrq 15,000,000 crbcyr vagb tevribhf snzvar.
Bhe ibyhagnel ntrapvrf ner rkregvat gurzfryirf gb gur hgzbfg gb fnir gur
yvirf bs puvyqera va guvf nern, ohg vg vf abj rivqrag gung hayrff eryvrs vf
nssbeqrq gur ybff bs yvsr jvyy rkgraq vagb znal zvyyvbaf. Nzrevpn pna abg
or qrns gb fhpu n pnyy nf gung.

Jr qb abg erpbtavmr gur tbireazrag bs Ehffvn, abe gbyrengr gur cebcntnaqn
juvpu rznangrf gurersebz, ohg jr qb abg sbetrg gur genqvgvbaf bs Ehffvna
sevraqfuvc. Jr znl chg nfvqr bhe pbafvqrengvba bs nyy vagreangvbany
cbyvgvpf naq shaqnzragny qvssreraprf va tbireazrag. Gur ovt guvat vf gur
pnyy bs gur fhssrevat naq gur qlvat. Haerfreirqyl V erpbzzraq gur
nccebcevngvba arprffnel gb fhccyl gur Nzrevpna Eryvrs Nqzvavfgengvba jvgu
10,000,000 ohfuryf bs pbea naq 1,000,000 ohfuryf bs frrq tenvaf, abg nybar
gb unyg gur jnir bs qrngu guebhtu fgneingvba, ohg gb ranoyr fcevat cynagvat
va nernf jurer gur frrq tenvaf unir orra rkunhfgrq grzcbenevyl gb fgrz
fgneingvba.

Gur Nzrevpna Eryvrs Nqzvavfgengvba vf qverpgrq va Ehffvn ol sbezre bssvpref
bs bhe bja nezvrf, naq unf shyyl qrzbafgengrq vgf novyvgl gb genafcbeg naq
qvfgevohgr eryvrs guebhtu Nzrevpna unaqf jvgubhg uvaqenapr be ybff. Gur
gvzr unf pbzr gb nqq gur Tbireazrag'f fhccbeg gb gur jbaqreshy eryvrs
nyernql jebhtug bhg bs gur trarebfvgl bs gur Nzrevpna cevingr chefr.

V nz abg hanjner gung jr unir fhssrevat naq cevingvba ng ubzr. Jura vg
rkprrqf gur pncnpvgl sbe gur eryvrs jvguva gur Fgngrf pbaprearq, vg jvyy
unir Srqreny pbafvqrengvba. Vg frrzf gb zr jr fubhyq or vaqvssrerag gb bhe
bja urneg cebzcgvatf, naq bhg bs nppbeq jvgu gur fcvevg juvpu nppynvzf gur
Puevfgznfgvqr, vs jr qb abg tvir bhg bs bhe angvbany nohaqnapr gb yvtugra
guvf oheqra bs jbr hcba n crbcyr oynzryrff naq urycyrff va snzvar'f crevy.

Gurer ner vg shyy fpber bs gbcvpf pbapreavat juvpu vg jbhyq or orpbzvat gb
nqqerff lbh, naq ba juvpu V ubcr gb znxr ercbeg ng n yngre gvzr. V unir
nyyhqrq gb gur guvatf erdhvevat lbhe rneyvre nggragvba. Ubjrire, V pna abg
raq guvf yvzvgrq nqqerff jvgubhg n fhttrfgrq nzraqzrag gb gur betnavp ynj.

Znal bs hf orybat gb gung fpubby bs gubhtug juvpu vf urfvgnag nobhg
nygrevat gur shaqnzragny ynj. V guvax bhe gnk ceboyrzf, gur graqrapl bs
jrnygu gb frrx abagnknoyr vairfgzrag, naq gur zranpvat vapernfr bs choyvp
qrog, Srqreny, Fgngr naq zhavpvcny-nyy whfgvsl n cebcbfny gb punatr gur
Pbafgvghgvba fb nf gb raq gur vffhr bs abagnknoyr obaqf. Ab npgvba pna
punatr gur fgnghf bs gur znal ovyyvbaf bhgfgnaqvat, ohg jr pna thneq
ntnvafg shgher rapbhentrzrag bs pncvgny'f cnenylfvf, juvyr n unyg va gur
tebjgu bs choyvp vaqrogrqarff jbhyq or orarsvpvny guebhtubhg bhe jubyr
ynaq.

Fhpu n punatr va gur Pbafgvghgvba zhfg or irel gubebhtuyl pbafvqrerq orsber
fhozvffvba. Gurer bhtug gb or xabja jung vasyhrapr vg jvyy unir ba gur
varivgnoyr ershaqvat bs bhe infg angvbany qrog, ubj vg jvyy bcrengr ba gur
arprffnel ershaqvat bs Fgngr naq zhavpvcny qrog, ubj gur nqinagntrf bs
Angvba bire Fgngr naq zhavpvcnyvgl, be gur pbagenel, znl or nibvqrq.
Pyrneyl gur Fgngrf jbhyq abg engvsl gb gurve bja nccnerag qvfnqinagntr. V
fhttrfg gur pbafvqrengvba orpnhfr gur qevsg bs jrnygu vagb abagnknoyr
frphevgvrf vf uvaqrevat gur sybj bs ynetr pncvgny gb bhe vaqhfgevrf,
znahsnpghevat, ntevphygheny, naq pneelvat, hagvy jr ner qvfpbhentvat gur
irel npgvivgvrf juvpu znxr bhe jrnygu.

Nterrnoyr gb lbhe rkcerffrq qrfver naq va pbzcyrgr nppbeq jvgu gur checbfrf
bs gur rkrphgvir oenapu bs gur Tbireazrag, gurer vf va Jnfuvatgba, nf lbh
unccvyl xabj, na Vagreangvbany Pbasrerapr abj zbfg rnearfgyl ng jbex ba
cynaf sbe gur yvzvgngvba bs neznzrag, n aniny ubyvqnl, naq gur whfg
frggyrzrag bs ceboyrzf juvpu zvtug qrirybc vagb pnhfrf bs vagreangvbany
qvfnterrzrag.

Vg vf rnfl gb oryvrir n jbeyq-ubcr vf pragrerq ba guvf Pncvgny Pvgl. N zbfg
tengvslvat jbeyq-nppbzcyvfuzrag vf abg vzcebonoyr.