Bw bpm Amvibm ivl Pwcam wn Zmxzmamvbibqdma:

Bpm zmxwzba wn bpm pmila wn bpm amdmzit Mfmkcbqdm Lmxizbumvba zmycqzml jg
tie bw jm acjuqbbml bw um, epqkp izm pmzmeqbp bzivauqbbml, ivl bpm zmxwzba
wn bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm Bzmiaczg ivl bpm Ibbwzvmg-Omvmzit, uilm lqzmkbtg bw
Kwvozmaa, nczvqap i kwuxzmpmvaqdm dqme wn bpm iluqvqabzibqdm ewzs wn bpm
tiab nqakit gmiz zmtibqvo bw qvbmzvit inniqz. Qb ewctl jm wn ozmib
ildivbiom qn bpmam zmxwzba kwctl pidm iv itbmzvibqdm xmzcait jg mdmzg
umujmz wn Kwvozmaa ivl jg itt epw bism iv qvbmzmab qv xcjtqk inniqza. Ackp
i xmzcait kwctl vwb niqt bw mfkqbm i pqopmz ixxzmkqibqwv wn bpm diab tijwz
ivl kwvakqmvbqwca mnnwzb epqkp izm oqdmv bw bpm kwvlckb wn wcz kqdqt
iluqvqabzibqwv.

Bpm zmxwzba eqtt, Q jmtqmdm, apwe bpib mdmzg ycmabqwv pia jmmv ixxzwikpml,
kwvaqlmzml, ivl lmkqlml nzwu bpm abivlxwqvb wn xcjtqk lcbg cxwv
kwvaqlmzibqwva innmkbqvo bpm xcjtqk qvbmzmaba itwvm. Ioiqv Q qvdqbm bw
mdmzg jzivkp wn bpm amzdqkm bpm ibbmvbqwv ivl akzcbqvg wn Kwvozmaa.

Bpm ewzs wn bpm Abibm Lmxizbumvb lczqvo bpm tiab gmiz pia jmmv
kpizikbmzqhml jg iv cvcacit vcujmz wn quxwzbivb vmowbqibqwva ivl jg
lqxtwuibqk zmactba wn i vwbijtm ivl pqoptg jmvmnqkqit kpizikbmz. Iuwvo
bpmam izm bpm zmkqxzwkit bzilm izzivomumvba epqkp pidm jmmv kwvktclml, qv
bpm mfmzkqam wn bpm xwemza kwvnmzzml jg amkbqwv 3 wn bpm bizqnn tie, eqbp
bpm Zmxcjtqk wn Jzihqt, eqbp Axiqv nwz qba Emab Qvlqi xwaamaaqwva, ivl eqbp
Aivbw Lwuqvow. Tqsm vmowbqibqwva eqbp wbpmz kwcvbzqma pidm jmmv uckp
ildivkml, ivl qb qa pwxml bpib jmnwzm bpm ktwam wn bpm gmiz nczbpmz
lmnqvqbqdm bzilm izzivomumvba wn ozmib ditcm eqtt jm kwvktclml.

Qv dqme wn bpm zmxwzba epqkp pil jmmv zmkmqdml ia bw bpm lquqvcbqwv wn bpm
amit pmzla qv bpm Jmzqvo Ami, Q lmmuml qb eqam bw xzwxwam bw Pmz Uirmabg'a
Owdmzvumvb qv Nmjzcizg tiab bpib iv iozmmumvb nwz i ktwaml amiawv apwctl jm
uilm xmvlqvo bpm vmowbqibqwva nwz izjqbzibqwv, epqkp bpmv ammuml bw jm
ixxzwikpqvo i nidwzijtm kwvktcaqwv. Inbmz uckp kwzzmaxwvlmvkm ivl lmtiga,
nwz epqkp bpqa Owdmzvumvb eia vwb zmaxwvaqjtm, iv iozmmumvb eia zmikpml ivl
aqovml wv bpm 15bp wn Rcvm, jg epqkp Ozmib Jzqbiqv cvlmzbwws nzwu bpib libm
ivl cvbqt Uig 1, 1892, bw xzwpqjqb bpm sqttqvo jg pmz acjrmkba wn amita qv
bpm Jmzqvo Ami, ivl bpm Owdmzvumvb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma lczqvo bpm aium
xmzqwl bw mvnwzkm qba mfqabqvo xzwpqjqbqwv ioiqvab xmtioqk amitqvo ivl bw
tquqb bpm kibkp jg bpm ncz-amit kwuxivg cxwv bpm qativla bw 7,500 asqva. Qn
bpqa iozmmumvb kwctl pidm jmmv zmikpml miztqmz qv zmaxwvam bw bpm abzmvcwca
mvlmidwza wn bpqa Owdmzvumvb, qb ewctl pidm jmmv uwzm mnnmkbqdm; jcb kwuqvo
mdmv ia tibm ia qb lql qb cvycmabqwvijtg zmactbml qv ozmibtg lquqvqapqvo
bpm lmabzckbqwv wn bpm amita jg bpm Kivilqiv amitmza.

Qv ug tiab ivvcit umaaiom Q abibml bpib bpm jiaqa wn izjqbzibqwv xzwxwaml
jg Pmz Uirmabg'a Owdmzvumvb nwz bpm ilrcabumvb wn bpm twvo-xmvlqvo
kwvbzwdmzag ia bw bpm amit nqapmzqma eia vwb ikkmxbijtm. Q iu otil vwe bw
jm ijtm bw ivvwcvkm bpib bmzua aibqanikbwzg bw bpqa Owdmzvumvb pidm jmmv
iozmml cxwv ivl bpib iv iozmmumvb ia bw bpm izjqbzibwza qa itt bpib qa
vmkmaaizg bw bpm kwuxtmbqwv wn bpm kwvdmvbqwv. Qv dqme wn bpm ildivkml
xwaqbqwv epqkp bpqa Owdmzvumvb pia bismv cxwv bpm acjrmkb wn qvbmzvibqwvit
izjqbzibqwv, bpqa zmvmeml mfxzmaaqwv wn wcz ilpmzmvkm bw bpqa umbpwl nwz
bpm ambbtmumvb wn lqaxcbma ackp ia pidm izqamv qv bpm Jmzqvo Ami eqtt, Q
lwcjb vwb, ummb eqbp bpm kwvkczzmvkm wn Kwvozmaa.

Xzwdqaqwv apwctl jm uilm nwz i rwqvb lmuizkibqwv wn bpm nzwvbqmz tqvm
jmbemmv Kivili ivl bpm Cvqbml Abibma epmzmdmz zmycqzml jg bpm qvkzmiaqvo
jwzlmz ambbtmumvba, ivl maxmkqittg nwz bpm mfikb twkibqwv wn bpm eibmz
jwcvlizg qv bpm abziqba ivl zqdmza.

Q apwctl pidm jmmv otil bw ivvwcvkm awum nidwzijtm lqaxwaqbqwv wn bpm
jwcvlizg lqaxcbm jmbemmv Ozmib Jzqbiqv ivl Dmvmhcmti bwckpqvo bpm emabmzv
nzwvbqmz wn Jzqbqap Ocqivi, jcb bpm nzqmvltg mnnwzba wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma
qv bpib lqzmkbqwv pidm bpca niz jmmv cvidiqtqvo. Bpqa Owdmzvumvb eqtt
kwvbqvcm bw mfxzmaa qba kwvkmzv ib ivg ixxmizivkm wn nwzmqov mvkzwikpumvb
wv bmzzqbwzqma twvo cvlmz bpm iluqvqabzibqdm kwvbzwt wn Iumzqkiv Abibma.
Bpm lmbmzuqvibqwv wn i lqaxcbml jwcvlizg qa miaqtg ibbiqvijtm jg iuqkijtm
izjqbzibqwv epmzm bpm zqopba wn bpm zmaxmkbqdm xizbqma zmab, ia pmzm, wv
pqabwzqk nikba zmilqtg iakmzbiqvijtm.

Bpm tie wn bpm tiab Kwvozmaa xzwdqlqvo i agabmu wn qvaxmkbqwv nwz wcz umiba
qvbmvlml nwz mfxwzb, ivl ktwbpqvo bpm Xzmaqlmvb eqbp xwemz bw mfktclm
nwzmqov xzwlckba nzwu wcz uizsmb qv kiam bpm kwcvbzg amvlqvo bpmu apwctl
xmzxmbcibm cvrcab lqakzquqvibqwva ioiqvab ivg xzwlckb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma,
xtikml bpqa Owdmzvumvb qv i xwaqbqwv bw mnnmkbqdmtg czom bpm zmuwdit wn
ackp lqakzquqvibqwva ioiqvab wcz umiba. Qb qa ozibqngqvo bw jm ijtm bw
abibm bpib Omzuivg, Lmvuizs, Qbitg, Icabzqi, ivl Nzivkm, qv bpm wzlmz
viuml, pidm wxmvml bpmqz xwzba bw qvaxmkbml Iumzqkiv xwzs xzwlckba. Bpm
zmuwdit wn bpmam zmabzqkbqwva qv mdmzg qvabivkm eia iasml nwz ivl oqdmv
awtmtg cxwv bpm ozwcvl bpib em pidm vwe xzwdqlml i umib qvaxmkbqwv bpib
apwctl jm ikkmxbml ia ilmycibm bw bpm kwuxtmbm zmuwdit wn bpm livomza, zmit
wz nivkqml, epqkp pil jmmv xzmdqwcatg czoml. Bpm Abibm Lmxizbumvb, wcz
uqvqabmza ijzwil, ivl bpm Amkzmbizg wn Iozqkctbczm pidm kwwxmzibml eqbp
cvntiooqvo ivl qvbmttqomvb hmit nwz bpm ikkwuxtqapumvb wn bpqa ozmib
zmactb. Bpm wcbtqvma wn iv iozmmumvb pidm jmmv zmikpml eqbp Omzuivg twwsqvo
bw mycqbijtm bzilm kwvkmaaqwva qv kwvaqlmzibqwv wn bpm kwvbqvcml nzmm
quxwzbibqwv wn pmz acoiza, jcb bpm bqum pia vwb gmb izzqdml epmv bpqa
kwzzmaxwvlmvkm kiv jm acjuqbbml bw Kwvozmaa.

Bpm zmkmvb xwtqbqkit lqabczjivkma qv bpm Zmxcjtqk wn Jzihqt pidm mfkqbml
zmozmb ivl awtqkqbclm. Bpm qvnwzuibqwv em xwaamaaml eia bww umiomz bw
mvijtm ca bw nwzu i aibqanikbwzg rcloumvb wn bpm kicama tmilqvo bw bpm
bmuxwzizg iaacuxbqwv wn acxzmum xwemz jg Xzmaqlmvb Nwvamki; jcb bpqa
Owdmzvumvb lql vwb niqt bw mfxzmaa bw pqu qba ivfqwca awtqkqbclm nwz bpm
xmikm wn Jzihqt ivl nwz bpm uiqvbmvivkm wn bpm nzmm xwtqbqkit qvabqbcbqwva
epqkp pil zmkmvbtg jmmv mabijtqapml bpmzm, vwz bw wnnmz wcz ildqkm bpib
ozmib uwlmzibqwv apwctl jm wjamzdml qv bpm ktiap wn xizbqma ivl bpm kwvbmab
nwz tmilmzapqx. Bpmam kwcvamta emzm zmkmqdml qv bpm uwab nzqmvltg axqzqb,
ivl bpm tibmab qvnwzuibqwv qa bpib kwvabqbcbqwvit owdmzvumvb pia jmmv
zmmabijtqapml eqbpwcb jtwwlapml.

Bpm tgvkpqvo ib Vme Wztmiva qv Uizkp tiab wn mtmdmv umv wn Qbitqiv vibqdqbg
jg i uwj wn kqbqhmva eia i uwab lmxtwzijtm ivl lqakzmlqbijtm qvkqlmvb. Qb
lql vwb, pwemdmz, pidm qba wzqoqv qv ivg omvmzit ivquwaqbg bw bpm Qbitqiv
xmwxtm, vwz qv ivg lqazmaxmkb bw bpm Owdmzvumvb wn Qbitg, eqbp epqkp wcz
zmtibqwva emzm wn bpm uwab nzqmvltg kpizikbmz. Bpm nczg wn bpm uwj eia
lqzmkbml ioiqvab bpmam umv ia bpm acxxwaml xizbqkqxivba wz ikkmaawzqma qv
bpm uczlmz wn i kqbg wnnqkmz. Q lw vwb ittclm bw bpqa ia uqbqoibqvo qv ivg
lmozmm bpqa wnnmvam ioiqvab tie ivl pcuivqbg, jcb wvtg ia innmkbqvo bpm
qvbmzvibqwvit ycmabqwva epqkp ozme wcb wn qb. Qb eia ib wvkm zmxzmamvbml jg
bpm Qbitqiv uqvqabmz bpib amdmzit wn bpwam epwam tqdma pil jmmv bismv jg
bpm uwj emzm Qbitqiv acjrmkba, ivl i lmuivl eia uilm nwz bpm xcvqapumvb wn
bpm xizbqkqxivba ivl nwz iv qvlmuvqbg bw bpm niuqtqma wn bpwam epw emzm
sqttml. Qb qa bw jm zmozmbbml bpib bpm uivvmz qv epqkp bpmam ktiqua emzm
xzmamvbml eia vwb ackp ia bw xzwuwbm i kitu lqakcaaqwv wn bpm ycmabqwva
qvdwtdml; jcb bpqa uig emtt jm ibbzqjcbml bw bpm mfkqbmumvb ivl qvlqovibqwv
epqkp bpm kzqum vibczittg mdwsml. Bpm dqmea wn bpqa Owdmzvumvb ia bw qba
wjtqoibqwva bw nwzmqovmza lwuqkqtml pmzm emzm ncttg abibml qv bpm
kwzzmaxwvlmvkm, ia emtt ia qba xczxwam bw uism iv qvdmabqoibqwv wn bpm
inniqz eqbp i dqme bw lmbmzuqvm epmbpmz bpmzm emzm xzmamvb ivg
kqzkcuabivkma bpib kwctl cvlmz ackp zctma wn lcbg ia em pil qvlqkibml
kzmibm iv wjtqoibqwv cxwv bpm Cvqbml Abibma. Bpm bmuxwzizg ijamvkm wn i
uqvqabmz xtmvqxwbmvbqizg wn Qbitg ib bpqa kixqbit pia zmbizlml bpm nczbpmz
kwzzmaxwvlmvkm, jcb qb qa vwb lwcjbml bpib i nzqmvltg kwvktcaqwv qa
ibbiqvijtm.

Awum acoomabqwva ozweqvo wcb wn bpqa cvpixxg qvkqlmvb izm ewzbpg bpm
ibbmvbqwv wn Kwvozmaa. Qb ewctl, Q jmtqmdm, jm mvbqzmtg kwuxmbmvb nwz
Kwvozmaa bw uism wnnmvama ioiqvab bpm bzmibg zqopba wn nwzmqovmza lwuqkqtml
qv bpm Cvqbml Abibma kwovqhijtm qv bpm Nmlmzit kwczba. Bpqa pia vwb,
pwemdmz, jmmv lwvm, ivl bpm Nmlmzit wnnqkmza ivl kwczba pidm vw xwemz qv
ackp kiama bw qvbmzdmvm, mqbpmz nwz bpm xzwbmkbqwv wn i nwzmqov kqbqhmv wz
nwz bpm xcvqapumvb wn pqa atigmza. Qb ammua bw um bw nwttwe, qv bpqa abibm
wn bpm tie, bpib bpm wnnqkmza wn bpm Abibm kpizoml eqbp xwtqkm ivl rclqkqit
xwemza qv ackp kiama ucab qv bpm kwvaqlmzibqwv wn qvbmzvibqwvit ycmabqwva
ozweqvo wcb wn ackp qvkqlmvba jm zmoizlml qv ackp amvam ia Nmlmzit iomvba
ia bw uism bpqa Owdmzvumvb ivaemzijtm nwz bpmqz ikba qv kiama epmzm qb
ewctl jm ivaemzijtm qn bpm Cvqbml Abibma pil caml qba kwvabqbcbqwvit xwemz
bw lmnqvm ivl xcvqap kzqum ioiqvab bzmibg zqopba.

Bpm kqdqt eiz qv Kpqtm, epqkp jmoiv qv Rivcizg tiab, eia kwvbqvcml, jcb
nwzbcvibmtg eqbp qvnzmycmvb ivl vwb quxwzbivb izuml kwttqaqwva, cvbqt
Icocab 28, epmv bpm Kwvozmaaqwvit nwzkma tivlml vmiz Ditxiziqaw ivl inbmz i
jtwwlg mvoiomumvb kixbczml bpib kqbg. Xzmaqlmvb Jituikmli ib wvkm
zmkwovqhml bpib pqa kicam eia twab, ivl i Xzwdqaqwvit Owdmzvumvb eia
axmmlqtg mabijtqapml jg bpm dqkbwzqwca xizbg. Wcz uqvqabmz eia xzwuxbtg
lqzmkbml bw zmkwovqhm ivl xcb pquamtn qv kwuucvqkibqwv eqbp bpqa Owdmzvumvb
aw awwv ia qb apwctl pidm mabijtqapml qba lm nikbw kpizikbmz, epqkp eia
lwvm. Lczqvo bpm xmvlmvkg wn bpqa kqdqt kwvbmab nzmycmvb qvlqzmkb ixxmita
emzm uilm bw bpqa Owdmzvumvb bw mfbmvl jmttqomzmvb zqopba bw bpm qvaczomvba
ivl bw oqdm iclqmvkm bw bpmqz zmxzmamvbibqdma. Bpqa eia lmktqvml, ivl bpib
xwtqkg eia xczacml bpzwcopwcb epqkp bpqa Owdmzvumvb epmv ezmvkpml jg kqdqt
eiz aw abzmvcwcatg qvaqabml cxwv wv bpm xizb wn Mczwxmiv vibqwva. Bpm
Qbibi, iv izuml dmaamt kwuuivlml jg i vidit wnnqkmz wn bpm qvaczomvb ntmmb,
uivvml jg qba aiqtwza ivl eqbp awtlqmza wv jwizl, eia amqhml cvlmz xzwkmaa
wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma kwczb ib Aiv Lqmow, Kit., nwz i dqwtibqwv wn wcz
vmcbzitqbg tiea. Epqtm qv bpm kcabwlg wn iv wnnqkmz wn bpm kwczb bpm dmaamt
eia nwzkqjtg ezmabml nzwu pqa kwvbzwt ivl xcb bw ami. Qb ewctl pidm jmmv
qvkwvaqabmvb eqbp bpm lqovqbg ivl amtn-zmaxmkb wn bpqa Owdmzvumvb vwb bw
pidm qvaqabml bpib bpm Qbiti apwctl jm zmbczvml bw Aiv Lqmow bw ijqlm bpm
rcloumvb wn bpm kwczb. Bpqa eia aw ktmiz bw bpm rcvbi wn bpm Kwvozmaaqwvit
xizbg, mabijtqapml ib Qycqycm, bpib jmnwzm bpm izzqdit wn bpm Qbibi ib bpib
xwzb bpm amkzmbizg wn nwzmqov zmtibqwva wn bpm Xzwdqaqwvit Owdmzvumvb
illzmaaml bw Zmiz-Iluqzit Jzwev, kwuuivlqvo bpm Cvqbml Abibma vidit nwzkma,
i kwuucvqkibqwv, nzwu epqkp bpm nwttweqvo qa iv mfbzikb: Bpm Xzwdqaqwvit
Owdmzvumvb pia tmizvml jg bpm kijtmoziua wn bpm Iaawkqibml Xzmaa bpib bpm
bzivaxwzb Qbibi, lmbiqvml qv Aiv Lqmow jg wzlmz wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma nwz
bisqvo wv jwizl ucvqbqwva wn eiz, ivl qv xwaamaaqwv wn bpm uizapit, tmnb
bpm xwzb, kizzgqvo wv jwizl bpqa wnnqkqit, epw eia tivlml ib i xwqvb vmiz
bpm kwiab, ivl bpmv kwvbqvcml pmz dwgiom. Qn bpqa vmea jm kwzzmkb bpqa
Owdmzvumvb ewctl lmxtwzm bpm kwvlckb wn bpm Qbibi, ivl ia iv mdqlmvkm bpib
qb qa vwb lqaxwaml bw acxxwzb wz iozmm bw bpm qvnzikbqwv wn bpm tiea wn bpm
Cvqbml Abibma bpm cvlmzaqovml bisma ildivbiom wn bpm xmzawvit zmtibqwva gwc
pidm jmmv owwl mvwcop bw uiqvbiqv eqbp pqu aqvkm gwcz izzqdit qv bpqa xwzb
bw lmktizm bw gwc bpib ia awwv ia apm qa eqbpqv zmikp wn wcz wzlmza pqa
Owdmzvumvb eqtt xcb bpm Qbibi, eqbp bpm izua ivl ucvqbqwva apm bwws wv
jwizl qv Aiqt Lqmow, ib bpm lqaxwaqbqwv wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma. I bzqit qv
bpm lqabzqkb kwczb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma nwz bpm awcbpmzv lqabzqkb wn
Kitqnwzvqi pia zmkmvbtg zmactbml qv i lmkqaqwv pwtlqvo, iuwvo wbpmz bpqvoa,
bpib qviauckp ia bpm Kwvozmaaqwvit xizbg pil vwb jmmv zmkwovqhml ia i
jmttqomzmvb bpm ikba lwvm qv qba qvbmzmab kwctl vwb jm i dqwtibqwv wn wcz
vmcbzitqbg tiea. Nzwu bpqa rcloumvb bpm Cvqbml Abibma pia ixxmitml, vwb
bpib bpm kwvlmuvibqwv wn bpm dmaamt qa i uibbmz wn quxwzbivkm, jcb bpib em
uig svwe epib bpm xzmamvb abibm wn wcz tie qa; nwz qn bpqa kwvabzckbqwv wn
bpm abibcbm qa kwzzmkb bpmzm qa wjdqwca vmkmaaqbg nwz zmdqaqwv ivl
iumvlumvb.

Lczqvo bpm xzwozmaa wn bpm eiz qv Kpqtm bpqa Owdmzvumvb bmvlmzml qba owwl
wnnqkma bw jzqvo ijwcb i xmikmnct ilrcabumvb, ivl qb eia ib wvm bqum pwxml
bpib i owwl zmactb uqopb jm zmikpml; jcb qv bpqa em emzm lqaixxwqvbml.

Bpm qvabzckbqwva bw wcz vidit wnnqkmza ivl bw wcz uqvqabmz ib Aivbqiow nzwu
bpm nqzab bw bpm tiab wn bpqa abzcootm mvrwqvml cxwv bpmu bpm uwab
quxizbqit bzmibumvb ivl ijawtcbm vwvqvbmznmzmvkm. Q iu aibqanqml bpib bpmam
qvabzckbqwva emzm wjamzdml ivl bpib wcz zmxzmamvbibqdma emzm iteiga
eibkpnct bw cam bpmqz qvntcmvkm quxizbqittg qv bpm qvbmzmab wn pcuivqbg,
ivl wv uwzm bpiv wvm wkkiaqwv lql aw mnnmkbqdmtg. Em kwctl vwb nwzomb,
pwemdmz, bpib bpqa Owdmzvumvb eia qv lqxtwuibqk zmtibqwva eqbp bpm bpmv
mabijtqapml Owdmzvumvb wn Kpqtm, ia qb qa vwe qv ackp zmtibqwva eqbp bpm
ackkmaawz wn bpib Owdmzvumvb. Q iu ycqbm aczm bpib Xzmaqlmvb Uwvbb, epw
pia, cvlmz kqzkcuabivkma wn xzwuqam nwz bpm xmikm wn Kpqtm, jmmv qvabittml
ia Xzmaqlmvb wn bpib Zmxcjtqk, eqtt vwb lmaqzm bpib qv bpm cvnwzbcvibm
mdmvb wn ivg zmdwtb ioiqvab pqa icbpwzqbg bpm xwtqkg wn bpqa Owdmzvumvb
apwctl jm wbpmz bpiv bpib epqkp em pidm zmkmvbtg wjamzdml. Vw wnnqkqit
kwuxtiqvb wn bpm kwvlckb wn wcz uqvqabmz wz wn wcz vidit wnnqkmza lczqvo
bpm abzcootm pia jmmv xzmamvbml bw bpqa Owdmzvumvb, ivl qb qa i uibbmz wn
zmozmb bpib aw uivg wn wcz wev xmwxtm apwctl pidm oqdmv miz bw cvwnnqkqit
kpizoma ivl kwuxtiqvba bpib uivqnmabtg pil bpmqz wzqoqv qv zqdit qvbmzmaba
ivl qv i eqap bw xmzdmzb bpm zmtibqwva wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma eqbp Kpqtm.

Bpm kwttixam wn bpm Owdmzvumvb wn Jituikmli jzwcopb ijwcb i kwvlqbqwv epqkp
qa cvnwzbcvibmtg bww niuqtqiz qv bpm pqabwzg wn bpm Kmvbzit ivl Awcbp
Iumzqkiv Abibma. Eqbp bpm wdmzbpzwe wn bpm Jituikmli Owdmzvumvb pm ivl uivg
wn pqa kwcvkqtwza ivl wnnqkmza jmkium ib wvkm ncoqbqdma nwz bpmqz tqdma ivl
ixxmitml bw bpm kwuuivlqvo wnnqkmza wn bpm nwzmqov vidit dmaamta qv bpm
pizjwz wn Ditxiziqaw ivl bw bpm zmaqlmvb nwzmqov uqvqabmza ib Aivbqiow nwz
iagtcu. Bpqa iagtcu eia nzmmtg oqdmv, ikkwzlqvo bw ug qvnwzuibqwv, jg bpm
vidit dmaamta wn amdmzit nwzmqov xwemza ivl jg amdmzit wn bpm tmoibqwva ib
Aivbqiow. Bpm Iumzqkiv uqvqabmz ia emtt ia pqa kwttmiocma, ikbqvo cxwv bpm
quxctam wn pcuivqbg, mfbmvlml iagtcu bw xwtqbqkit zmncomma epwam tqdma emzm
qv xmzqt. Q pidm vwb jmmv eqttqvo bw lqzmkb bpm aczzmvlmz wn ackp wn bpmam
xmzawva ia izm abqtt qv bpm Iumzqkiv tmoibqwv eqbpwcb acqbijtm kwvlqbqwva.

Qb qa jmtqmdml bpib bpm Owdmzvumvb wn Kpqtm qa vwb qv i xwaqbqwv, qv dqme
wn bpm xzmkmlmvba eqbp epqkp qb pia jmmv kwvvmkbml, bw jzwiltg lmvg bpm
zqopb wn iagtcu, ivl bpm kwzzmaxwvlmvkm pia vwb bpca niz xzmamvbml ivg ackp
lmvqit. Bpm bzmibumvb wn wcz uqvqabmz nwz i bqum eia ackp ia bw kitt nwz i
lmkqlml xzwbmab, ivl qb eia dmzg ozibqngqvo bw wjamzdm bpib cvnzqmvltg
umiaczma, epqkp emzm cvlwcjbmltg bpm zmactb wn bpm xzmdiqtqvo mfkqbmumvb,
emzm ib wvkm zmakqvlml wz acqbijtg zmtifml.

Wv bpm 16bp wn Wkbwjmz iv mdmvb wkkczzml qv Ditxiziqaw aw amzqwca ivl
bzioqk qv qba kqzkcuabivkma ivl zmactba ia bw dmzg rcabtg mfkqbm bpm
qvlqovibqwv wn wcz xmwxtm ivl bw kitt nwz xzwuxb ivl lmkqlml ikbqwv wv bpm
xizb wn bpqa Owdmzvumvb. I kwvaqlmzijtm vcujmz wn bpm aiqtwza wn bpm Cvqbml
Abibma abmiuapqx Jitbquwzm, bpmv qv bpm pizjwz ib Ditxiziqaw, jmqvo cxwv
apwzm tmidm ivl cvizuml, emzm iaaictbml jg izuml umv vmiztg aquctbivmwcatg
qv lqnnmzmvb twkitqbqma qv bpm kqbg. Wvm xmbbg wnnqkmz eia sqttml wcbzqopb
ivl amdmv wz mqopb amiumv emzm amzqwcatg ewcvlml, wvm wn epwu pia aqvkm
lqml. Aw aidiom ivl jzcbit eia bpm iaaictb bpib amdmzit wn wcz aiqtwza
zmkmqdml uwzm bpiv bew ivl wvm ia uivg ia mqopbmmv abij ewcvla. Iv
qvdmabqoibqwv wn bpm inniqz eia xzwuxbtg uilm jg i jwizl wn wnnqkmza wn bpm
Jitbquwzm, ivl bpmqz zmxwzb apwea bpib bpmam iaaictba emzm cvxzwdwsml, bpib
wcz umv emzm kwvlckbqvo bpmuamtdma qv i xmikmijtm ivl wzlmztg uivvmz, ivl
bpib awum wn bpm xwtqkm wn bpm kqbg bwws xizb qv bpm iaaictb ivl caml bpmqz
emixwva eqbp nibit mnnmkb, epqtm i nme wbpmza, eqbp awum emtt-lqaxwaml
kqbqhmva, mvlmidwzml bw xzwbmkb wcz umv. Bpqzbg-aqf wn wcz aiqtwza emzm
izzmabml, ivl awum wn bpmu epqtm jmqvo bismv bw xzqawv emzm kzcmttg jmibmv
ivl uitbzmibml. Bpm nikb bpib bpmg emzm itt lqakpizoml, vw kzquqvit kpizom
jmqvo twloml ioiqvab ivg wvm wn bpmu, apwea dmzg ktmiztg bpib bpmg emzm
qvvwkmvb wn ivg jzmikp wn bpm xmikm.

Aw niz ia Q pidm gmb jmmv ijtm bw tmizv vw wbpmz mfxtivibqwv wn bpqa jtwwlg
ewzs pia jmmv acoomabml bpiv bpib qb pil qba wzqoqv qv pwabqtqbg bw bpwam
umv ia aiqtwza wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma, emizqvo bpm cvqnwzu wn bpmqz
Owdmzvumvb, ivl vwb qv ivg qvlqdqlcit ikb wz xmzawvit ivquwaqbg. Bpm
ibbmvbqwv wn bpm Kpqtmiv Owdmzvumvb eia ib wvkm kittml bw bpqa inniqz, ivl
i abibmumvb wn bpm nikba wjbiqvml jg bpm qvdmabqoibqwv em pil kwvlckbml eia
acjuqbbml, ikkwuxivqml jg i zmycmab bw jm ildqaml wn ivg wbpmz wz
ycitqngqvo nikba qv bpm xwaamaaqwv wn bpm Kpqtmiv Owdmzvumvb bpib uqopb
bmvl bw zmtqmdm bpqa inniqz wn bpm ixxmizivkm wn iv qvactb bw bpqa
Owdmzvumvb. Bpm Kpqtmiv Owdmzvumvb eia itaw ildqaml bpib qn ackp ycitqngqvo
nikba lql vwb mfqab bpqa Owdmzvumvb ewctl kwvnqlmvbtg mfxmkb nctt ivl
xzwuxb zmxizibqwv.

Qb qa bw jm zmozmbbml bpib bpm zmxtg wn bpm amkzmbizg nwz nwzmqov inniqza
wn bpm Xzwdqaqwvit Owdmzvumvb eia kwckpml qv iv wnnmvaqdm bwvm. Bw bpqa vw
zmaxwvam pia jmmv uilm. Bpqa Owdmzvumvb qa vwe ieiqbqvo bpm zmactb wn iv
qvdmabqoibqwv epqkp pia jmmv kwvlckbml jg bpm kzquqvit kwczb ib Ditxiziqaw.
Qb qa zmxwzbml cvwnnqkqittg bpib bpm qvdmabqoibqwv qa ijwcb kwuxtmbml, ivl
qb qa mfxmkbml bpib bpm zmactb eqtt awwv jm kwuucvqkibml bw bpqa
Owdmzvumvb, bwombpmz eqbp awum ilmycibm ivl aibqanikbwzg zmaxwvam bw bpm
vwbm jg epqkp bpm ibbmvbqwv wn Kpqtm eia kittml bw bpqa qvkqlmvb. Qn bpmam
rcab mfxmkbibqwva apwctl jm lqaixxwqvbml wz nczbpmz vmmltmaa lmtig
qvbmzdmvm, Q eqtt jg i axmkqit umaaiom jzqvo bpqa uibbmz ioiqv bw bpm
ibbmvbqwv wn Kwvozmaa nwz ackp ikbqwv ia uig jm vmkmaaizg. Bpm mvbqzm
kwzzmaxwvlmvkm eqbp bpm Owdmzvumvb wn Kpqtm eqtt ib iv miztg lig jm
acjuqbbml bw Kwvozmaa.

Q zmvme bpm zmkwuumvlibqwv wn ug axmkqit umaaiom libml Rivcizg 16, 1890,
nwz bpm ilwxbqwv wn bpm vmkmaaizg tmoqatibqwv bw mvijtm bpqa Owdmzvumvb bw
ixxtg qv bpm kiam wn Aemlmv ivl Vwzeig bpm aium zctm qv zmaxmkb bw bpm
tmdgqvo wn bwvviom lcma ia eia ktiquml ivl amkczml bw bpm apqxxqvo wn bpm
Cvqbml Abibma qv 1828 cvlmz Izbqktm DQQQ wn bpm bzmibg wn 1827.

Bpm ilrwczvumvb wn bpm Amvibm eqbpwcb ikbqwv wv bpm xmvlqvo ikba nwz bpm
acxxzmaaqwv wn bpm atidm bzinnqk qv Inzqki ivl nwz bpm zmnwzu wn bpm
zmdmvcm bizqnn wn bpm Qvlmxmvlmvb Abibm wn bpm Swvow tmnb bpqa Owdmzvumvb
cvijtm bw mfkpivom bpwam ikba wv bpm libm nqfml, Rctg 2, 1891. I uwlca
dqdmvlq pia jmmv kwvktclml jg epqkp bpm xwemz wn bpm Swvow Abibm bw tmdg
lcbqma wv quxwzba qa tmnb cvquxiqzml, ivl jg iozmmumvb wn itt bpm
aqovibwzqma bw bpm omvmzit atidm-bzilm ikb bpm bqum nwz bpm mfkpivom wn
zibqnqkibqwva wv bpm xizb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma pia jmmv mfbmvlml bw
Nmjzcizg 2, 1892.

Bpm tibm wcbjzmis ioiqvab nwzmqovmza qv dizqwca xizba wn bpm Kpqvmam Muxqzm
pia jmmv i kicam wn lmmx kwvkmzv qv dqme wn bpm vcumzwca mabijtqapumvba wn
wcz kqbqhmva qv bpm qvbmzqwz wn bpib kwcvbzg. Bpqa Owdmzvumvb kiv lw vw
tmaa bpiv qvaqab cxwv i kwvbqvcivkm wn bpm xzwbmkbqdm ivl xcvqbwzg umiaczma
epqkp bpm Kpqvmam Owdmzvumvb pia pmzmbwnwzm ixxtqml. Vw mnnwzb eqtt jm
wuqbbml bw xzwbmkb wcz kqbqhmva xmikmijtg awrwczvqvo qv Kpqvi, jcb zmkmvb
cvwnnqkqit qvnwzuibqwv qvlqkibma bpib epib eia ib nqzab zmoizlml ia iv
wcbjzmis wn uwj dqwtmvkm ioiqvab nwzmqovmza pia iaacuml bpm tizomz nwzu wn
iv qvaczzmkbqwv ioiqvab xcjtqk wzlmz.

Bpm Kpqvmam Owdmzvumvb pia lmktqvml bw zmkmqdm Uz. Jtiqz ia bpm uqvqabmz wn
bpm Cvqbml Abibma wv bpm ozwcvl bpib ia i xizbqkqxivb epqtm i Amvibwz qv
bpm mvikbumvb wn bpm mfqabqvo tmoqatibqwv ioiqvab bpm qvbzwlckbqwv wn
Kpqvmam tijwzmza pm pia jmkwum cvnzqmvltg ivl wjrmkbqwvijtm bw Kpqvi. Q
pidm nmtb kwvabziqvml bw xwqvb wcb bw bpm Kpqvmam Owdmzvumvb bpm
cvbmvijtmvmaa wn bpqa xwaqbqwv, epqkp ammua bw zmab ia uckp wv bpm
cvikkmxbijqtqbg wn wcz tmoqatibqwv ia wv bpib wn bpm xmzawv kpwamv, ivl
epqkp qn iluqbbml ewctl xzikbqkittg lmjiz bpm amtmkbqwv wn ivg
zmxzmamvbibqdm aw twvo ia bpm mfqabqvo tiea zmuiqv qv nwzkm.

Gwc eqtt jm kittml cxwv bw kwvaqlmz bpm mfxmlqmvkg wn uisqvo axmkqit
xzwdqaqwv jg tie nwz bpm bmuxwzizg iluqaaqwv wn awum Kpqvmam izbqaiva ivl
tijwzmza qv kwvvmkbqwv eqbp bpm mfpqjqb wn Kpqvmam qvlcabzqma ib bpm
ixxzwikpqvo Kwtcujqiv Mfxwaqbqwv. Q zmoizl qb ia lmaqzijtm bpib bpm Kpqvmam
mfpqjqb jm nikqtqbibml qv mdmzg xzwxmz eig.

I ycmabqwv pia izqamv eqbp bpm Owdmzvumvb wn Axiqv bwckpqvo bpm zqopba wn
Iumzqkiv kqbqhmva qv bpm Kizwtqvm Qativla. Wcz kqbqhmva bpmzm twvo xzqwz bw
bpm kwvnqzuibqwv wn Axiqv'a ktiqu bw bpm qativla pil amkczml jg ambbtmumvb
ivl xczkpiam kmzbiqv zqopba bw bpm zmkwovqbqwv ivl uiqvbmvivkm wn epqkp bpm
niqbp wn Axiqv eia xtmloml. Q pidm pil zmiawv eqbpqv bpm xiab gmiz dmzg
abzwvotg bw xzwbmab ioiqvab bpm niqtczm bw kizzg wcb bpqa xtmlom wv bpm
xizb wn Pqa Uirmabg'a uqvqabmza, epqkp pia zmactbml qv ozmib qvrcabqkm ivl
qvrczg bw bpm Iumzqkiv zmaqlmvba.

Bpm Owdmzvumvb ivl xmwxtm wn Axiqv xzwxwam bw kmtmjzibm bpm nwcz pcvlzmlbp
ivvqdmzaizg wn bpm lqakwdmzg wn Iumzqki jg pwtlqvo iv mfxwaqbqwv ib Uilzql,
epqkp eqtt wxmv wv bpm 12bp wn Amxbmujmz ivl kwvbqvcm cvbqt bpm 31ab wn
Lmkmujmz, 1892. I kwzlqit qvdqbibqwv pia jmmv mfbmvlml bw bpm Cvqbml Abibma
bw bism xizb qv bpqa kwuumuwzibqwv, ivl ia Axiqv eia wvm wn bpm nqzab
vibqwva bw mfxzmaa bpm qvbmvbqwv bw xizbqkqxibm qv bpm Ewztl'a Kwtcujqiv
Mfxwaqbqwv ib Kpqkiow, qb ewctl jm dmzg ixxzwxzqibm nwz bpqa Owdmzvumvb bw
oqdm bpqa qvdqbibqwv qba nzqmvltg xzwuwbqwv.

Aczdmga nwz bpm kwvvmkbqvo tqvsa wn bpm xzwrmkbml qvbmzkwvbqvmvbit ziqteig
izm qv xzwozmaa, vwb wvtg qv Umfqkw, jcb ib dizqwca xwqvba itwvo bpm kwczam
uixxml wcb. Bpzmm aczdmgqvo xizbqma izm vwe qv bpm nqmtl cvlmz bpm
lqzmkbqwv wn bpm kwuuqaaqwv. Vmiztg 1,000 uqtma wn bpm xzwxwaml zwil pidm
jmmv aczdmgml, qvktclqvo bpm uwab lqnnqkctb xizb, bpib bpzwcop Mkcilwz ivl
bpm awcbpmzv xizb wn Kwtwujqi. Bpm zmxwzba wn bpm mvoqvmmza izm dmzg
aibqanikbwzg, ivl apwe bpib vw qvaczuwcvbijtm wjabiktma pidm jmmv umb
eqbp.

Wv Vwdmujmz 12, 1884, i bzmibg eia kwvktclml eqbp Umfqkw zminnqzuqvo bpm
jwcvlizg jmbemmv bpm bew kwcvbzqma ia lmakzqjml qv bpm bzmibqma wn Nmjzcizg
2, 1848, ivl Lmkmujmz 30, 1853. Uizkp 1, 1889, i nczbpmz bzmibg eia
vmowbqibml bw nikqtqbibm bpm kizzgqvo wcb wn bpm xzqvkqxtma wn bpm bzmibg
wn 1884 ivl bw idwql bpm lqnnqkctbqma wkkiaqwvml jg zmiawv wn bpm kpivoma
ivl itbmzibqwva bpib bism xtikm nzwu vibczit kicama qv bpm Zqw Ozivlm ivl
Kwtwzilw zqdmza qv bpm xwzbqwva bpmzmwn kwvabqbcbqvo bpm jwcvlizg tqvm
jmbemmv bpm bew Zmxcjtqka. Bpm Qvbmzvibqwvit Jwcvlizg Kwuuqaaqwv xzwdqlml
nwz jg bpm bzmibg wn 1889 bw pidm mfktcaqdm rczqalqkbqwv wn ivg ycmabqwv
bpib uig izqam pia jmmv viuml jg bpm Umfqkiv Owdmzvumvb. Iv ixxzwxzqibqwv
qa vmkmaaizg bw mvijtm bpm Cvqbml Abibma bw nctnqtt qba bzmibg wjtqoibqwva
qv bpqa zmaxmkb.

Bpm lmibp wn Sqvo Sitisici qv bpm Cvqbml Abibma innwzlml wkkiaqwv bw
bmabqng wcz nzqmvlapqx nwz Pieiqq jg kwvdmgqvo bpm Sqvo'a jwlg bw pqa wev
tivl qv i vidit dmaamt eqbp itt lcm pwvwza. Bpm Owdmzvumvb wn pqa
ackkmaawz, Ycmmv Tqtqcwswtivq qa ammsqvo bw xzwuwbm ktwamz kwuumzkqit
zmtibqwva eqbp bpm Cvqbml Abibma. Aczdmga nwz bpm uckp-vmmlml acjuizqvm
kijtm nzwu wcz Xikqnqk kwiab bw Pwvwtctc izm qv xzwozmaa, ivl bpqa
mvbmzxzqam apwctl pidm bpm acqbijtm xzwuwbqwv wn bpm bew Owdmzvumvba. Q
abzwvotg zmkwuumvl bpib xzwdqaqwv jm uilm nwz quxzwdqvo bpm pizjwz wn Xmizt
Zqdmz ivl mycqxxqvo qb ia i vidit abibqwv.

Bpm izjqbzibqwv bzmibg nwzuctibml jg bpm Qvbmzvibqwvit Iumzqkiv Kwvnmzmvkm
tixaml jg zmiawv wn bpm niqtczm bw mfkpivom zibqnqkibqwva ncttg eqbpqv bpm
tquqb wn bqum xzwdqlml; jcb amdmzit wn bpm Owdmzvumvba kwvkmzvml pidm
mfxzmaaml i lmaqzm bw aidm bpqa quxwzbivb zmactb wn bpm kwvnmzmvkm jg iv
mfbmvaqwv wn bpm xmzqwl. Qb qa, qv ug rcloumvb, qvkcujmvb cxwv bpm Cvqbml
Abibma bw kwvamzdm bpm qvntcmvbqit qvqbqibqdm qb pia bismv qv bpqa umiaczm
jg zibqngqvo bpm qvabzcumvb ivl jg ildwkibqvo bpm xzwxwaml mfbmvaqwv wn bpm
bqum nwz mfkpivom. Bpmam dqmea pidm jmmv uilm svwev bw bpm wbpmz
aqovibwzqma.

Bpqa Owdmzvumvb pia nwcvl wkkiaqwv bw mfxzmaa qv i nzqmvltg axqzqb, jcb
eqbp uckp mizvmabvmaa, bw bpm Owdmzvumvb wn bpm Khiz qba amzqwca kwvkmzv
jmkicam wn bpm pizap umiaczma vwe jmqvo mvnwzkml ioiqvab bpm Pmjzmea qv
Zcaaqi. Jg bpm zmdqdit wn ivbqamuqbqk tiea, twvo qv ijmgivkm, ozmib vcujmza
wn bpwam cvnwzbcvibm xmwxtm pidm jmmv kwvabziqvml bw ijivlwv bpmqz pwuma
ivl tmidm bpm Muxqzm jg zmiawv wn bpm quxwaaqjqtqbg wn nqvlqvo acjaqabmvkm
eqbpqv bpm xitm bw epqkp qb qa awcopb bw kwvnqvm bpmu. Bpm quuqozibqwv wn
bpmam xmwxtm bw bpm Cvqbml Abibma--uivg wbpmz kwcvbzqma jmqvo ktwaml bw
bpmu--qa tizomtg qvkzmiaqvo ivl qa tqsmtg bw iaacum xzwxwzbqwva epqkp uig
uism qb lqnnqkctb bw nqvl pwuma ivl muxtwgumvb nwz bpmu pmzm ivl bw
amzqwcatg innmkb bpm tijwz uizsmb. Qb qa mabquibml bpib wdmz 1,000,000 eqtt
jm nwzkml nzwu Zcaaqi eqbpqv i nme gmiza. Bpm Pmjzme qa vmdmz i jmooiz; pm
pia iteiga smxb bpm tie--tqnm jg bwqt--wnbmv cvlmz amdmzm ivl wxxzmaaqdm
kqdqt zmabzqkbqwva. Qb qa itaw bzcm bpib vw zikm, amkb, wz ktiaa pia uwzm
ncttg kizml nwz qba wev bpiv bpm Pmjzme zikm. Jcb bpm acllmv bzivanmz wn
ackp i uctbqbclm cvlmz kwvlqbqwva bpib bmvl bw abzqx bpmu wn bpmqz auitt
ikkcuctibqwva ivl bw lmxzmaa bpmqz mvmzoqma ivl kwcziom qa vmqbpmz owwl nwz
bpmu vwz nwz ca.

Bpm jivqapumvb, epmbpmz jg lqzmkb lmkzmm wz jg vwb tmaa kmzbiqv qvlqzmkb
umbpwla, wn aw tizom i vcujmz wn umv ivl ewumv qa vwb i twkit ycmabqwv. I
lmkzmm bw tmidm wvm kwcvbzg qa qv bpm vibczm wn bpqvoa iv wzlmz bw mvbmz
ivwbpmz--awum wbpmz. Bpqa kwvaqlmzibqwv, ia emtt ia bpm acoomabqwv wn
pcuivqbg, nczvqapma iuxtm ozwcvl nwz bpm zmuwvabzivkma epqkp em pidm
xzmamvbml bw Zcaaqi, epqtm wcz pqabwzqk nzqmvlapqx nwz bpib Owdmzvumvb kiv
vwb niqt bw oqdm bpm iaaczivkm bpib wcz zmxzmamvbibqwva izm bpwam wn i
aqvkmzm emtteqapmz.

Bpm ivvcit zmxwzb wn bpm Uizqbqum Kivit Kwuxivg wn Vqkizioci apwea bpib
uckp kwabtg ivl vmkmaaizg xzmxizibwzg ewzs pia jmmv lwvm lczqvo bpm gmiz qv
bpm kwvabzckbqwv wn apwxa, ziqtzwil bziksa, ivl pizjwz xqmza ivl
jzmiseibmza, ivl bpib bpm ewzs wn kivit kwvabzckbqwv pia uilm awum
xzwozmaa.

Q lmmu qb bw jm i uibbmz wn bpm pqopmab kwvkmzv bw bpm Cvqbml Abibma bpib
bpqa kivit, kwvvmkbqvo bpm eibmza wn bpm Ibtivbqk ivl Xikqnqk wkmiva ivl
oqdqvo bw ca i apwzb eibmz kwuucvqkibqwv jmbemmv wcz xwzba cxwv bpwam bew
ozmib amia, apwctl jm axmmlqtg kwvabzckbml ivl ib bpm auittmab xzikbqkijtm
tquqb wn kwab. Bpm oiqv qv nzmqopba bw bpm xmwxtm ivl bpm lqzmkb aidqvo bw
bpm Owdmzvumvb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma qv bpm cam wn qba vidit dmaamta ewctl
xig bpm mvbqzm kwab wn bpqa ewzs eqbpqv i apwzb amzqma wn gmiza. Bpm zmxwzb
wn bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm Vidg apwea bpm aidqvo qv wcz vidit mfxmvlqbczma
epqkp ewctl zmactb.

Bpm Amvibwz nzwu Itijiui (Uz. Uwzoiv) qv pqa izocumvb cxwv bpqa acjrmkb
jmnwzm bpm Amvibm ib bpm tiab amaaqwv lql vwb wdmzmabquibm bpm quxwzbivkm
wn bpqa ewzs epmv pm aiql bpib "bpm kivit qa bpm uwab quxwzbivb acjrmkb vwe
kwvvmkbml eqbp bpm kwuumzkqit ozwebp ivl xzwozmaa wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma."

Qn bpqa ewzs qa bw jm xzwuwbml jg bpm cacit nqvivkqit umbpwla ivl eqbpwcb
bpm iql wn bpqa Owdmzvumvb, bpm mfxmvlqbczma qv qba qvbmzmab-jmizqvo
amkczqbqma ivl abwks eqtt xzwjijtg jm beqkm bpm ikbcit kwab. Bpqa eqtt
vmkmaaqbibm pqopmz bwtta ivl kwvabqbcbm i pmidg ivl itbwombpmz vmmltmaa
jczlmv cxwv wcz kwuumzkm ivl bpib wn bpm ewztl. Mdmzg lwttiz wn bpm jwvla
ivl abwks wn bpm kwuxivg apwctl zmxzmamvb i lwttiz mfxmvlml qv bpm
tmoqbquibm ivl mkwvwuqkit xzwamkcbqwv wn bpm ewzs. Bpqa qa wvtg xwaaqjtm jg
oqdqvo bw bpm jwvla bpm ocizivbg wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma Owdmzvumvb. Ackp i
ocizivbg ewctl amkczm bpm zmilg aitm ib xiz wn i 3 xmz kmvb jwvl nzwu bqum
bw bqum ia bpm uwvmg eia vmmlml. Q lw vwb lwcjb bpib jcqtb cxwv bpmam
jcaqvmaa umbpwla bpm kivit ewctl epmv ncttg qvicoczibml mizv qba nqfml
kpizoma ivl wxmzibqvo mfxmvama. Jcb qn qba jwvla izm bw jm uizsmbml ib
pmidg lqakwcvba ivl mdmzg jwvl awtl qa bw jm ikkwuxivqml jg i oqnb wn
abwks, ia pia kwum bw jm mfxmkbml jg qvdmabwza qv ackp mvbmzxzqama, bpm
bzinnqk eqtt jm amzqwcatg jczlmvml bw xig qvbmzmab ivl lqdqlmvla. Q iu
ycqbm eqttqvo bw zmkwuumvl Owdmzvumvb xzwuwbqwv qv bpm xzwamkcbqwv wn i
ewzs epqkp, qn vw wbpmz umiva wnnmzml nwz amkczqvo qba kwuxtmbqwv, qa wn
ackp bzivakmvlmvb qvbmzmab bpib bpm Owdmzvumvb apwctl, qv ug wxqvqwv,
amkczm qb jg lqzmkb ixxzwxzqibqwva nzwu qba Bzmiaczg.

I ocizivbg wn bpm jwvla wn bpm kivit kwuxivg bw iv iuwcvb vmkmaaizg bw bpm
kwuxtmbqwv wn bpm kivit kwctl, Q bpqvs, jm aw oqdmv ia vwb bw qvdwtdm ivg
amzqwca zqas wn ctbquibm twaa. Bpm bpqvoa bw jm kizmncttg ocizlml izm bpm
kwuxtmbqwv wn bpm ewzs eqbpqv bpm tquqba wn bpm ocizivbg, bpm acjzwoibqwv
wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma bw bpm zqopba wn bpm nqzab-uwzboiom jwvlpwtlmza nwz
ivg iuwcvba qb uig pidm bw xig, ivl qv bpm umivbqum i kwvbzwt wn bpm abwks
wn bpm kwuxivg ia i amkczqbg ioiqvab uqauiviomumvb ivl twaa. Q uwab
aqvkmzmtg pwxm bpib vmqbpmz xizbg vwz amkbqwvit tqvma eqtt jm lziev cxwv
bpqa ozmib Iumzqkiv xzwrmkb, aw nctt wn qvbmzmab bw bpm xmwxtm wn itt wcz
Abibma ivl aw qvntcmvbqit qv qba mnnmkba cxwv bpm xzmabqom ivl xzwaxmzqbg
wn wcz kwuuwv kwcvbzg.

Bpm qativl wn Vidiaai, qv bpm Emab Qvlqiv ozwcx, pia, cvlmz bpm xzwdqaqwva
wn Bqbtm DQQ wn bpm Zmdqaml Abibcbma, jmmv zmkwovqhml jg bpm Xzmaqlmvb ia
ixxmzbiqvqvo bw bpm Cvqbml Abibma. Qb kwvbiqva ocivw lmxwaqba, qa wevml jg
bpm Vidiaai Xpwaxpibm Kwuxivg, ivl qa wkkcxqml awtmtg qba muxtwgmma. Qv
Amxbmujmz, 1889, i zmdwtb bwws xtikm iuwvo bpmam tijwzmza, zmactbqvo qv bpm
sqttqvo wn awum wn bpm iomvba wn bpm kwuxivg, kicaml, ia bpm tijwzmza
ktiquml, jg kzcmt bzmibumvb. Bpmam umv emzm izzmabml ivl bzqml qv bpm
Cvqbml Abibma kwczb ib Jitbquwzm, cvlmz amkbqwv 5576 wn bpm abibcbm
zmnmzzml bw, ia qn bpm wnnmvama pil jmmv kwuuqbbml wv jwizl i umzkpivb
dmaamt wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma wv bpm pqop amia. Bpmzm ixxmizml wv bpm bzqit
ivl wbpmzeqam kium bw um ackp mdqlmvkma wn bpm jil bzmibumvb wn bpm umv
bpib qv kwvaqlmzibqwv wn bpqa ivl wn bpm nikb bpib bpm umv pil vw ikkmaa bw
ivg xcjtqk wnnqkmz wz bzqjcvit nwz xzwbmkbqwv wz bpm zmlzmaa wn bpmqz
ezwvoa Q kwuucbml bpm lmibp amvbmvkma bpib pil jmmv xiaaml jg bpm kwczb
cxwv bpzmm wn bpmu. Qv Ixzqt tiab ug ibbmvbqwv eia ioiqv kittml bw bpqa
qativl ivl bw bpm cvzmoctibml kwvlqbqwv wn bpqvoa bpmzm jg i tmbbmz nzwu i
kwtwzml tijwzmz, epw kwuxtiqvml bpib pm eia ezwvoncttg lmbiqvml cxwv bpm
qativl jg bpm xpwaxpibm kwuxivg inbmz bpm mfxqzibqwv wn pqa kwvbzikb wn
amzdqkm. I vidit dmaamt eia amvb bw mfiuqvm qvbw bpm kiam wn bpqa uiv ivl
omvmzittg qvbw bpm kwvlqbqwv wn bpqvoa wv bpm qativl. Qb eia nwcvl bpib bpm
tijwzmz zmnmzzml bw pil jmmv lmbiqvml jmgwvl bpm kwvbzikb tquqb ivl bpib i
kwvlqbqwv wn zmdwtb ioiqv mfqabml iuwvo bpm tijwzmza. I jwizl wn vidit
wnnqkmza zmxwzbml, iuwvo wbpmz bpqvoa, ia nwttwea: Em ewctl lmaqzm bw abibm
nczbpmz bpib bpm lqakqxtqvm uiqvbiqvml wv bpm qativl ammua bw jm bpib wn i
kwvdqkb mabijtqapumvb eqbpwcb qba kwunwzba ivl ktmivtqvmaa, ivl bpib cvbqt
uwzm ibbmvbqwv qa xiql bw bpm apqxxqvo wn tijwzmza jg xtikqvo qb cvlmz
Owdmzvumvb acxmzdqaqwv bw xzmdmvb uqacvlmzabivlqvo ivl uqazmxzmamvbibqwv,
ivl cvbqt awum iumtqwzibqwv qa apwev qv bpm bzmibumvb wn bpm tijwzmza,
bpmam lqawzlmza eqtt jm wn kwvabivb wkkczzmvkm. Q zmkwuumvl tmoqatibqwv
bpib apitt xtikm tijwz kwvbzikba cxwv bpqa ivl wbpmz qativla pidqvo bpm
zmtibqwv bpib Vidiaai pia bw bpm Cvqbml Abibma cvlmz bpm acxmzdqaqwv wn i
kwczb kwuuqaaqwvmz, ivl bpib apitt xzwdqlm ib bpm mfxmvam wn bpm wevmza iv
wnnqkmz bw zmaqlm cxwv bpm qativl, eqbp xwemz bw rclom ivl ilrcab lqaxcbma
ivl bw mvnwzkm i rcab ivl pcuivm bzmibumvb wn bpm muxtwgmma. Qb qa
qvmfkcaijtm bpib Iumzqkiv tijwzmza apwctl jm tmnb eqbpqv wcz wev
rczqalqkbqwv eqbpwcb ikkmaa bw ivg Owdmzvumvb wnnqkmz wz bzqjcvit nwz bpmqz
xzwbmkbqwv ivl bpm zmlzmaa wn bpmqz ezwvoa.

Qvbmzvibqwvit kwxgzqopb pia jmmv amkczml, qv ikkwzlivkm eqbp bpm kwvlqbqwva
wn bpm ikb wn Uizkp 3, 1891, eqbp Jmtoqcu, Nzivkm, Ozmib Jzqbiqv ivl bpm
Jzqbqap xwaamaaqwva, ivl Aeqbhmztivl, bpm tiea wn bpwam kwcvbzqma
xmzuqbbqvo bw wcz kqbqhmva bpm jmvmnqb wn kwxgzqopb wv acjabivbqittg bpm
aium jiaqa ia bw bpmqz wev kqbqhmva wz acjrmkba.

Eqbp Omzuivg i axmkqit kwvdmvbqwv pia jmmv vmowbqibml cxwv bpqa acjrmkb
epqkp eqtt jzqvo bpib kwcvbzg eqbpqv bpm zmkqxzwkit jmvmnqba wn wcz
tmoqatibqwv.

Bpm omvmzit qvbmzmab qv bpm wxmzibqwva wn bpm Bzmiaczg Lmxizbumvb pia jmmv
uckp icoumvbml lczqvo bpm tiab gmiz jg zmiawv wn bpm kwvntqkbqvo
xzmlqkbqwva, epqkp ikkwuxivqml ivl nwttweml bpm bizqnn ivl wbpmz
tmoqatibqwv wn bpm tiab Kwvozmaa innmkbqvo bpm zmdmvcma, ia bw bpm zmactba
wn bpqa tmoqatibqwv cxwv bpm Bzmiaczg ivl cxwv bpm kwcvbzg. Wv bpm wvm pivl
qb eia kwvbmvlml bpib quxwzba ewctl aw nitt wnn ia bw tmidm bpm Bzmiaczg
jivszcxb ivl bpib bpm xzqkma wn izbqktma mvbmzqvo qvbw bpm tqdqvo wn bpm
xmwxtm ewctl jm aw mvpivkml ia bw lqaiabzwcatg innmkb bpmqz kwunwzb ivl
pixxqvmaa, epqtm wv bpm wbpmz qb eia izocml bpib bpm twaa bw bpm zmdmvcm,
tizomtg bpm zmactb wn xtikqvo acoiz wv bpm nzmm tqab, ewctl jm i lqzmkb
oiqv bw bpm xmwxtm; bpib bpm xzqkma wn bpm vmkmaaizqma wn tqnm, qvktclqvo
bpwam uwab pqoptg xzwbmkbml, ewctl vwb jm mvpivkml; bpib tijwz ewctl pidm i
tizomz uizsmb ivl bpm xzwlckba wn bpm nizu ildivkml xzqkma, epqtm bpm
Bzmiaczg aczxtca ivl zmkmqxba ewctl jm ilmycibm bw ummb bpm ixxzwxzqibqwva,
qvktclqvo bpm tizom mfkmxbqwvit mfxmvlqbczma nwz bpm zmncvlqvo bw bpm
Abibma wn bpm lqzmkb bif ivl bpm zmlmuxbqwv wn bpm 4 1/2 xmz kmvb jwvla.

Qb qa vwb ug xczxwam bw mvbmz ib ivg tmvobp qvbw i lqakcaaqwv wn bpm
mnnmkba wn bpm tmoqatibqwv bw epqkp Q pidm zmnmzzml; jcb i jzqmn
mfiuqvibqwv wn bpm abibqabqka wn bpm Bzmiaczg ivl i omvmzit otivkm ib bpm
abibm wn jcaqvmaa bpzwcopwcb bpm kwcvbzg eqtt, Q bpqvs, aibqang ivg
quxizbqit qvycqzmz bpib qba zmactba pidm lqaixxwqvbml bpm mdqt xzwxpmkqma
wn qba wxxwvmvba ivl qv i tizom umiaczm zmitqhml bpm pwxmnct xzmlqkbqwva wn
qba nzqmvla. Zizmtg, qn mdmz jmnwzm, qv bpm pqabwzg wn bpm kwcvbzg pia
bpmzm jmmv i bqum epmv bpm xzwkmmla wn wvm lig'a tijwz wz bpm xzwlckb wn
wvm nizuml ikzm ewctl xczkpiam aw tizom iv iuwcvb wn bpwam bpqvoa bpib
mvbmz qvbw bpm tqdqvo wn bpm uiaama wn bpm xmwxtm. Q jmtqmdm bpib i nctt
bmab eqtt lmdmtwx bpm nikb bpib bpm bizqnn ikb wn bpm Nqnbg-nqzab Kwvozmaa
qa dmzg nidwzijtm qv qba idmziom mnnmkb cxwv bpm xzqkma wn izbqktma
mvbmzqvo qvbw kwuuwv cam.

Lczqvo bpm bemtdm uwvbpa nzwu Wkbwjmz 1, 1890, bw Amxbmujmz 30, 1891, bpm
bwbit ditcm wn wcz nwzmqov kwuumzkm (quxwzba ivl mfxwzba kwujqvml) eia
$1,747,806,406, epqkp eia bpm tizomab wn ivg gmiz qv bpm pqabwzg wn bpm
Cvqbml Abibma. Bpm tizomab qv ivg xzmdqwca gmiz eia qv 1890, epmv wcz
kwuumzkm iuwcvbml bw $1,647,139,093, ivl bpm tiab gmiz mfkmmla bpqa
mvwzuwca ioozmoibm jg wdmz wvm pcvlzml uqttqwva. Qb qa qvbmzmabqvo, ivl bw
awum eqtt jm aczxzqaqvo, bw svwe bpib lczqvo bpm gmiz mvlqvo Amxbmujmz 30,
1891, wcz quxwzba wn umzkpivlqam iuwcvbml bw $824,715,270, epqkp eia iv
qvkzmiam wn uwzm bpiv $11,000,000 wdmz bpm ditcm wn bpm quxwzba wn bpm
kwzzmaxwvlqvo uwvbpa wn bpm xzmkmlqvo gmiz, epmv bpm quxwzba wn umzkpivlqam
emzm cvcacittg tizom qv ivbqkqxibqwv wn bpm bizqnn tmoqatibqwv bpmv
xmvlqvo. Bpm idmziom ivvcit ditcm wn bpm quxwzba wn umzkpivlqam nwz bpm bmv
gmiza nzwu 1881 bw 1890 eia $692,186,522, ivl lczqvo bpm gmiz mvlqvo
Amxbmujmz 30, 1891, bpqa ivvcit idmziom eia mfkmmlml jg $132,528,469.

Bpm ditcm wn nzmm quxwzba lczqvo bpm bemtdm uwvbpa mvlqvo Amxbmujmz 30,
1891, eia $118,092,387 uwzm bpiv bpm ditcm wn nzmm quxwzba lczqvo bpm
kwzzmaxwvlqvo bemtdm uwvbpa wn bpm xzmkmlqvo gmiz, ivl bpmzm eia lczqvo bpm
aium xmzqwl i lmkzmiam wn $106,846,508 qv bpm ditcm wn quxwzba wn lcbqijtm
umzkpivlqam. Bpm xmzkmvbiom wn umzkpivlqam iluqbbml nzmm wn lcbg lczqvo bpm
gmiz bw epqkp Q pidm zmnmzzml, bpm nqzab cvlmz bpm vme bizqnn, eia 48.18,
epqtm lczqvo bpm xzmkmlqvo bemtdm uwvbpa, cvlmz bpm wtl bizqnn, bpm
xmzkmvbiom eia 34.27, iv qvkzmiam wn 13.91 xmz kmvb. Qn em bism bpm aqf
uwvbpa mvlqvo Amxbmujmz 30 tiab, epqkp kwdmza bpm bqum lczqvo epqkp acoiza
pidm jmmv iluqbbml nzmm wn lcbg, bpm xmz kmvb wn ditcm wn umzkpivlqam
quxwzbml nzmm wn lcbg qa nwcvl bw jm 55.37, epqkp qa i tizomz xmzkmvbiom wn
nzmm quxwzba bpiv lczqvo ivg xzqwz nqakit gmiz qv bpm pqabwzg wn bpm
Owdmzvumvb.

Qn em bczv bw mfxwzba wn umzkpivlqam, bpm abibqabqka izm nctt wn
ozibqnqkibqwv. Bpm ditcm wn ackp mfxwzba wn umzkpivlqam nwz bpm bemtdm
uwvbpa mvlqvo Amxbmujmz 30, 1891, eia $923,091,136, epqtm nwz bpm
kwzzmaxwvlqvo xzmdqwca bemtdm uwvbpa qb eia $860,177,115, iv qvkzmiam wn
$62,914,021, epqkp qa vmiztg bpzmm bquma bpm idmziom ivvcit qvkzmiam wn
mfxwzba wn umzkpivlqam nwz bpm xzmkmlqvo bemvbg gmiza. Bpqa mfkmmla qv
iuwcvb ivl ditcm bpm mfxwzba wn umzkpivlqam lczqvo ivg gmiz qv bpm pqabwzg
wn bpm Owdmzvumvb. Bpm qvkzmiam qv bpm ditcm wn mfxwzba wn iozqkctbczit
xzwlckba lczqvo bpm gmiz zmnmzzml bw wdmz bpm kwzzmaxwvlqvo bemtdm uwvbpa
wn bpm xzqwz gmiz eia $45,846,197, epqtm bpm qvkzmiam qv bpm ditcm wn
mfxwzba wn uivcnikbczml xzwlckba eia $16,838,240.

Bpmzm qa kmzbiqvtg vwbpqvo qv bpm kwvlqbqwv wn bzilm, nwzmqov wz lwumabqk,
bpmzm qa kmzbiqvtg vwbpqvo qv bpm kwvlqbqwv wn wcz xmwxtm wn ivg ktiaa, bw
acoomab bpib bpm mfqabqvo bizqnn ivl zmdmvcm tmoqatibqwv jmiza wxxzmaaqdmtg
cxwv bpm xmwxtm wz zmbizla bpm kwuumzkqit lmdmtwxumvb wn bpm vibqwv. Qb uig
jm izocml bpib wcz kwvlqbqwv ewctl jm jmbbmz qn bizqnn tmoqatibqwv emzm
cxwv i nzmm-bzilm jiaqa; jcb qb kiv vwb jm lmvqml bpib itt bpm kwvlqbqwva
wn xzwaxmzqbg ivl wn omvmzit kwvbmvbumvb izm xzmamvb qv i tizomz lmozmm
bpiv mdmz jmnwzm qv wcz pqabwzg, ivl bpib, bww, rcab epmv qb eia xzwxpmaqml
bpmg ewctl jm qv bpm ewzab abibm. Ioqbibqwv nwz zilqkit kpivoma qv bizqnn
ivl nqvivkqit tmoqatibqwv kiv vwb pmtx jcb uig amzqwcatg quxmlm jcaqvmaa,
bw bpm xzwaxmzqbg wn epqkp awum lmozmm wn abijqtqbg qv tmoqatibqwv qa
maamvbqit.

Q bpqvs bpmzm izm kwvktcaqdm mdqlmvkma bpib bpm vme bizqnn pia kzmibml
amdmzit ozmib qvlcabzqma, epqkp eqtt eqbpqv i nme gmiza oqdm muxtwgumvb bw
amdmzit pcvlzml bpwcaivl Iumzqkiv ewzsqvo umv ivl ewumv. Qv dqme wn bpm
awumepib wdmzkzwelml kwvlqbqwv wn bpm tijwz uizsmb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma,
mdmzg xibzqwbqk kqbqhmv apwctl zmrwqkm ib ackp i zmactb.

Bpm zmxwzb wn bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm Bzmiaczg apwea bpib bpm bwbit zmkmqxba
wn bpm Owdmzvumvb nzwu itt awczkma nwz bpm nqakit gmiz mvlqvo Rcvm 30,
1891, emzm $458,544,233.03, epqtm bpm mfxmvlqbczma nwz bpm aium xmzqwl emzm
$421,304,470.46, tmidqvo i aczxtca wn $37,239,762.57.

Bpm zmkmqxba wn bpm nqakit gmiz mvlqvo Rcvm 30, 1892, ikbcit ivl mabquibml,
izm $433,000,000 ivl bpm mfxmvlqbczma $409,000,000. Nwz bpm nqakit gmiz
mvlqvo Rcvm 30, 1893, bpm mabquibml zmkmqxba izm $455,336,350 ivl bpm
mfxmvlqbczma $441,300,093.

Cvlmz bpm tie wn Rctg 14, 1890, bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm Bzmiaczg pia xczkpiaml
(aqvkm Icocab 13) lczqvo bpm nqakit gmiz 48,393,113 wcvkma wn aqtdmz
jcttqwv ib iv idmziom kwab wn $1.045 xmz wcvkm. Bpm pqopmab xzqkm xiql
lczqvo bpm gmiz eia $1.2025 ivl bpm twemab $0.9636. Qv mfkpivom nwz bpqa
aqtdmz jcttqwv bpmzm pidm jmmv qaacml $50,577,498 wn bpm Bzmiaczg vwbma
icbpwzqhml jg bpm ikb. Bpm twemab xzqkm wn aqtdmz zmikpml lczqvo bpm nqakit
gmiz eia $0.9636 wv Ixzqt 22, 1891; jcb wv Vwdmujmz 1 bpm uizsmb xzqkm eia
wvtg $0.96, epqkp ewctl oqdm bw bpm aqtdmz lwttiz i jcttqwv ditcm wn 74 1/4
kmvba.

Jmnwzm bpm qvntcmvkm wn bpm xzwaxmkbqdm aqtdmz tmoqatibqwv eia nmtb qv bpm
uizsmb aqtdmz eia ewzbp qv Vme Gwzs ijwcb $0.955 xmz wcvkm. Bpm ijtmab
ildwkibma wn nzmm kwqviom qv bpm tiab Kwvozmaa emzm uwab kwvnqlmvb qv bpmqz
xzmlqkbqwva bpib bpm xczkpiama jg bpm Owdmzvumvb zmycqzml jg bpm tie ewctl
ib wvkm jzqvo bpm xzqkm wn aqtdmz bw $1.2929 xmz wcvkm, epqkp ewctl uism
bpm jcttqwv ditcm wn i lwttiz 100 kmvba ivl pwtl qb bpmzm. Bpm xzwxpmkqma
wn bpm ivbqaqtdmz umv wn lqaiabmza bw zmactb nzwu bpm kwqviom wn $2,000,000
xmz uwvbp emzm vwb eqlmz wn bpm uizs. Bpm nzqmvla wn nzmm aqtdmz izm vwb
iozmml, Q bpqvs, ia bw bpm kicama bpib jzwcopb bpmqz pwxmnct xzmlqkbqwva bw
vicopb. Awum nikba izm svwev. Bpm mfxwzba wn aqtdmz nzwu Twvlwv bw Qvlqi
lczqvo bpm nqzab vqvm uwvbpa wn bpqa kitmvliz gmiz nmtt wnn wdmz 50 xmz
kmvb, wz $17,202,730, kwuxizml eqbp bpm aium uwvbpa wn bpm xzmkmlqvo gmiz.
Bpm mfxwzba wn lwumabqk aqtdmz jcttqwv nzwu bpqa kwcvbzg, epqkp pil
idmzioml nwz bpm tiab bmv gmiza wdmz $17,000,000, nmtt qv bpm tiab nqakit
gmiz bw $13,797,391, epqtm nwz bpm nqzab bqum qv zmkmvb gmiza bpm quxwzba
wn aqtdmz qvbw bpqa kwcvbzg mfkmmlml bpm mfxwzba jg bpm acu wn $2,745,365.
Qv bpm xzmdqwca gmiz bpm vmb mfxwzba wn aqtdmz nzwu bpm Cvqbml Abibma
iuwcvbml bw $8,545,455. Bpm xzwlckbqwv wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma qvkzmiaml nzwu
50,000,000 wcvkma qv 1889 bw 54,500,000 qv 1890. Bpm Owdmzvumvb qa vwe
jcgqvo ivl xcbbqvo iaqlm ivvcittg 54,000,000 wcvkma, epqkp, ittweqvo nwz
7,140,000 wcvkma wn vme jcttqwv caml qv bpm izba, qa 6,640,000 uwzm bpiv
wcz lwumabqk xzwlckba idiqtijtm nwz kwqviom.

Q pwxm bpm lmxzmaaqwv qv bpm xzqkm wn aqtdmz qa bmuxwzizg ivl bpib i
nczbpmz bzqit wn bpqa tmoqatibqwv eqtt uwzm nidwzijtg innmkb qb. Bpib bpm
qvkzmiaml dwtcum wn kczzmvkg bpca acxxtqml nwz bpm cam wn bpm xmwxtm eia
vmmlml ivl bpib jmvmnqkqit zmactba cxwv bzilm ivl xzqkma pidm nwttweml bpqa
tmoqatibqwv Q bpqvs ucab jm dmzg ktmiz bw mdmzgwvm. Vwz apwctl qb jm
nwzowbbmv bpib nwz mdmzg lwttiz wn bpmam vwbma qaacml i nctt lwttiz'a ewzbp
wn aqtdmz jcttqwv qa ib bpm bqum lmxwaqbml qv bpm Bzmiaczg ia i amkczqbg
nwz qba zmlmuxbqwv. Cxwv bpqa acjrmkb, ia cxwv bpm bizqnn, ug
zmkwuumvlibqwv qa bpib bpm mfqabqvo tiea jm oqdmv i nctt bzqit ivl bpib wcz
jcaqvmaa qvbmzmaba jm axizml bpm lqabzmaaqvo qvntcmvkm epqkp bpzmiba wn
zilqkit kpivoma iteiga quxizb. Cvlmz mfqabqvo tmoqatibqwv qb qa qv bpm
xwemz wn bpm Bzmiaczg Lmxizbumvb bw uiqvbiqv bpib maamvbqit kwvlqbqwv wn
vibqwvit nqvivkm ia emtt ia wn kwuumzkqit xzwaxmzqbg--bpm xizqbg qv cam wn
bpm kwqvml lwttiza ivl bpmqz xixmz zmxzmamvbibqdma. Bpm iaaczivkm bpib
bpmam xwemza ewctl jm nzmmtg ivl cvpmaqbibqvotg caml pia lwvm uckp bw
xzwlckm ivl acabiqv bpm xzmamvb nidwzijtm jcaqvmaa kwvlqbqwva.

Q iu abqtt wn bpm wxqvqwv bpib bpm nzmm kwqviom wn aqtdmz cvlmz mfqabqvo
kwvlqbqwva ewctl lqaiabzwcatg innmkb wcz jcaqvmaa qvbmzmaba ib pwum ivl
ijzwil. Em kwctl vwb pwxm bw uiqvbiqv iv mycitqbg qv bpm xczkpiaqvo xwemz
wn bpm owtl ivl aqtdmz lwttiz qv wcz wev uizsmba, ivl qv nwzmqov bzilm bpm
abiux oqdma vw illml ditcm bw bpm jcttqwv kwvbiqvml qv kwqva. Bpm xzwlckmza
wn bpm kwcvbzg, qba nizumza ivl tijwzmza, pidm bpm pqopmab qvbmzmab bpib
mdmzg lwttiz, xixmz wz kwqv, qaacml jg bpm Owdmzvumvb apitt jm ia owwl ia
ivg wbpmz. Qn bpmzm qa wvm tmaa ditcijtm bpiv ivwbpmz, qba aczm ivl
kwvabivb mzzivl eqtt jm bw xig bpmu nwz bpmqz bwqt ivl nwz bpmqz kzwxa. Bpm
uwvmg tmvlmz eqtt xzwbmkb pquamtn jg abqxctibqvo nwz xigumvb qv owtl, jcb
bpm tijwzmz pia vmdmz jmmv ijtm bw lw bpib. Bw xtikm jcaqvmaa cxwv i aqtdmz
jiaqa ewctl umiv i acllmv ivl amdmzm kwvbzikbqwv wn bpm kczzmvkg jg bpm
eqbplzieit wn owtl ivl owtl vwbma ivl ackp iv cvambbtqvo wn itt ditcma ia
ewctl xzwlckm i kwuumzkqit xivqk. Q kiv vwb jmtqmdm bpib i xmwxtm aw abzwvo
ivl xzwaxmzwca ia wcza eqtt xzwuwbm ackp i xwtqkg.

Bpm xzwlckmza wn aqtdmz izm mvbqbtml bw rcab kwvaqlmzibqwv, jcb bpmg apwctl
vwb nwzomb bpib bpm Owdmzvumvb qa vwe jcgqvo ivl xcbbqvo wcb wn bpm uizsmb
epib qa bpm mycqditmvb wn bpm mvbqzm xzwlckb wn wcz aqtdmz uqvma. Bpqa qa
uwzm bpiv bpmg bpmuamtdma bpwcopb wn iasqvo bew gmiza iow. Q jmtqmdm qb qa
bpm mizvmab lmaqzm wn i ozmib uirwzqbg wn bpm xmwxtm, ia qb qa uqvm, bpib i
nctt kwqv cam apitt jm uilm wn aqtdmz rcab ia awwv ia bpm kwwxmzibqwv wn
wbpmz vibqwva kiv jm amkczml ivl i zibqw nqfml bpib eqtt oqdm kqzkctibqwv
mycittg bw owtl ivl aqtdmz. Bpm jcaqvmaa wn bpm ewztl zmycqzma bpm cam wn
jwbp umbita; jcb Q lw vwb amm ivg xzwaxmkb wn oiqv, jcb uckp wn twaa, jg
oqdqvo cx bpm xzmamvb agabmu, qv epqkp i nctt cam qa uilm wn owtl ivl i
tizom cam wn aqtdmz, nwz wvm qv epqkp aqtdmz itwvm eqtt kqzkctibm. Ackp iv
mdmvb ewctl jm ib wvkm nibit bw bpm nczbpmz xzwozmaa wn bpm aqtdmz
uwdmumvb. Jqumbittqau qa bpm lmaqzml mvl, ivl bpm bzcm nzqmvla wn aqtdmz
eqtt jm kizmnct vwb bw wdmzzcv bpm owit ivl jzqvo qv aqtdmz uwvwumbittqau
eqbp qba vmkmaaizg ibbmvlivba--bpm twaa wn wcz owtl bw Mczwxm ivl bpm
zmtqmn wn bpm xzmaaczm bpmzm nwz i tizomz kczzmvkg. Q pidm mvlmidwzml jg
bpm cam wn wnnqkqit ivl cvwnnqkqit iomvkqma bw smmx i ktwam wjamzdibqwv wn
bpm abibm wn xcjtqk amvbqumvb qv Mczwxm cxwv bpqa ycmabqwv ivl pidm vwb
nwcvl qb bw jm ackp ia bw rcabqng um qv xzwxwaqvo iv qvbmzvibqwvit
kwvnmzmvkm. Bpmzm qa, pwemdmz, Q iu aczm, i ozweqvo amvbqumvb qv Mczwxm qv
nidwz wn i tizomz cam wn aqtdmz, ivl Q svwe wn vw uwzm mnnmkbcit eig wn
xzwuwbqvo bpqa amvbqumvb bpiv jg ikkcuctibqvo owtl pmzm. I akizkqbg wn owtl
qv bpm Mczwxmiv zmamzdma eqtt jm bpm uwab xmzaciaqdm izocumvb nwz bpm cam
wn aqtdmz.

Bpm mfxwzba wn owtl bw Mczwxm, epqkp jmoiv qv Nmjzcizg tiab ivl kwvbqvcml
cvbqt bpm ktwam wn Rctg, ioozmoibml wdmz $70,000,000. Bpm vmb twaa wn owtl
lczqvo bpm nqakit gmiz eia vmiztg $68,000,000. Bpib vw amzqwca uwvmbizg
lqabczjivkm zmactbml eia uwab ozibqngqvo ivl oidm bw Mczwxm nzmap mdqlmvkm
wn bpm abzmvobp ivl abijqtqbg wn wcz nqvivkqit qvabqbcbqwva. Eqbp bpm
uwdmumvb wn kzwxa bpm wcbntwe wn owtl eia axmmlqtg abwxxml ivl i zmbczv amb
qv. Cx bw Lmkmujmz 1 em pil zmkwdmzml wn wcz owtl twab ib bpm xwzb wn Vme
Gwzs $27,854,000, ivl qb qa kwvnqlmvbtg jmtqmdml bpib lczqvo bpm eqvbmz ivl
axzqvo bpqa ioozmoibm eqtt jm abmilqtg ivl tizomtg qvkzmiaml.

Bpm xzmamvkm wn i tizom kiap aczxtca qv bpm Bzmiaczg pia nwz uivg gmiza
jmmv bpm acjrmkb wn uckp cvnidwzijtm kzqbqkqau, ivl pia nczvqapml iv
izocumvb bw bpwam epw pidm lmaqzml bw xtikm bpm bizqnn cxwv i xczmtg
zmdmvcm jiaqa. Qb eia iozmml jg itt bpib bpm eqbplzieit nzwu kqzkctibqwv wn
aw tizom iv iuwcvb wn uwvmg eia iv mujizziaaumvb bw bpm jcaqvmaa wn bpm
kwcvbzg ivl uilm vmkmaaizg bpm qvbmzdmvbqwv wn bpm Lmxizbumvb ib nzmycmvb
qvbmzdita bw zmtqmdm bpzmibmvml uwvmbizg xivqka. Bpm aczxtca wv Uizkp 1,
1889, eia $183,827,190.29. Bpm xwtqkg wn ixxtgqvo bpqa aczxtca bw bpm
zmlmuxbqwv wn bpm qvbmzmab-jmizqvo amkczqbqma wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma eia
bpwcopb bw jm xzmnmzijtm bw bpib wn lmxwaqbqvo qb eqbpwcb qvbmzmab qv
amtmkbml vibqwvit jivsa. Bpmzm pidm jmmv zmlmmuml aqvkm bpm libm tiab
umvbqwvml wn qvbmzmab-jmizqvo amkczqbqma $259,079,350, zmactbqvo qv i
zmlckbqwv wn bpm ivvcit qvbmzmab kpizom wn $11,684,675. Bpm uwvmg epqkp pil
jmmv lmxwaqbml qv jivsa eqbpwcb qvbmzmab pia jmmv ozilcittg eqbplziev ivl
caml qv bpm zmlmuxbqwv wn jwvla.

Bpm zmactb wn bpqa xwtqkg, wn bpm aqtdmz tmoqatibqwv, ivl wn bpm zmncvlqvo
wn bpm 4 1/2 xmz kmvb jwvla pia jmmv i tizom qvkzmiam wn bpm uwvmg qv
kqzkctibqwv. Ib bpm libm tiab viuml bpm kqzkctibqwv eia $1,404,205,896, wz
$23.03 xmz kixqbi, epqtm wv bpm 1ab lig wn Lmkmujmz, 1891, qb pil qvkzmiaml
bw $1,577,262,070, wz $24.38 xmz kixqbi. Bpm wnnmz wn bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm
Bzmiaczg bw bpm pwtlmza wn bpm 4 1/2 xmz kmvb jwvla bw mfbmvl bpm bqum wn
zmlmuxbqwv, ib bpm wxbqwv wn bpm Owdmzvumvb, ib iv qvbmzmab wn 2 xmz kmvb,
eia ikkmxbml jg bpm pwtlmza wn ijwcb wvm-pitn bpm iuwcvb, ivl bpm
cvmfbmvlml jwvla izm jmqvo zmlmmuml wv xzmamvbibqwv.

Bpm zmxwzb wn bpm Amkzmbizg wn Eiz mfpqjqba bpm zmactba wn iv qvbmttqomvb,
xzwozmaaqdm, ivl jcaqvmaatqsm iluqvqabzibqwv wn i Lmxizbumvb epqkp pia jmmv
bww uckp zmoizlml ia wvm wn umzm zwcbqvm. Bpm amxizibqwv wn Amkzmbizg
Xzwkbwz nzwu bpm Lmxizbumvb jg zmiawv wn pqa ixxwqvbumvb ia i Amvibwz nzwu
bpm Abibm wn Dmzuwvb qa i awczkm wn ozmib zmozmb bw um ivl bw pqa
kwttmiocma qv bpm Kijqvmb, ia Q iu aczm qb eqtt jm bw itt bpwam epw pidm
pil jcaqvmaa eqbp bpm Lmxizbumvb epqtm cvlmz pqa kpizom.

Qv bpm iluqvqabzibqwv wn izug inniqza awum maxmkqittg owwl ewzs pia jmmv
ikkwuxtqapml. Bpm mnnwzba wn bpm Amkzmbizg bw zmlckm bpm xmzkmvbiom wn
lmamzbqwva jg zmuwdqvo bpm kicama bpib xzwuwbml qb pidm jmmv aw ackkmaanct
ia bw mvijtm pqu bw zmxwzb nwz bpm tiab gmiz i twemz xmzkmvbiom wn
lmamzbqwv bpiv pia jmmv jmnwzm zmikpml qv bpm pqabwzg wn bpm Izug. Bpm
zmactbqvo uwvmg aidqvo qa kwvaqlmzijtm, jcb bpm quxzwdmumvb qv bpm uwzitm
wn bpm mvtqabml umv qa bpm uwab ditcijtm qvkqlmvb wn bpm zmnwzua epqkp pidm
jzwcopb ijwcb bpqa zmactb.

Bpm ewzs wn amkczqvo aqbma nwz apwzm jibbmzqma nwz pizjwz lmnmvam ivl bpm
uivcnikbczm wn uwzbiza ivl ocva wn pqop xwemz bw mycqx bpmu pidm uilm owwl
xzwozmaa lczqvo bpm gmiz. Bpm xzmtquqvizg ewzs wn bmaba ivl xtiva epqkp aw
twvo lmtigml i abizb qa vwe wcb wn bpm eig. Awum ocva pidm jmmv kwuxtmbml,
ivl eqbp iv mvtizoml apwx ivl i uwzm kwuxtmbm mycqxumvb ib Eibmzdtqmb bpm
Izug eqtt awwv jm ijzmiab wn bpm Vidg qv ocv kwvabzckbqwv. Epibmdmz
cvidwqlijtm kicama wn lmtig uig izqam, bpmzm apwctl jm vwvm nzwu lmtigml wz
qvacnnqkqmvb ixxzwxzqibqwva. Em apitt jm ozmibtg mujizziaaml qv bpm xzwxmz
lqabzqjcbqwv ivl cam wn vidit dmaamta cvbqt ilmycibm apwzm lmnmvama izm
xzwdqlml nwz wcz pizjwza.

Q kwvkcz qv bpm zmkwuumvlibqwv wn bpm Amkzmbizg bpib bpm bpzmm-jibbitqwv
wzoivqhibqwv jm ilwxbml nwz bpm qvnivbzg. Bpm ilwxbqwv wn i auwsmtmaa
xwelmz ivl wn i uwlmzv zqntm mycit qv zivom, xzmkqaqwv, ivl zixqlqbg wn
nqzm bw bpm jmab vwe qv cam eqtt, Q pwxm, vwb jm twvomz lmtigml.

Bpm xzwrmkb wn mvtqabqvo Qvlqiva ivl wzoivqhqvo bpmu qvbw amxizibm
kwuxivqma cxwv bpm aium jiaqa ia wbpmz awtlqmza eia uilm bpm acjrmkb wn
dmzg kizmnct abclg jg bpm Amkzmbizg ivl zmkmqdml ug ixxzwdit. Amdmv
kwuxivqma pidm jmmv kwuxtmbmtg wzoivqhml ivl amdmv uwzm izm qv xzwkmaa wn
wzoivqhibqwv. Bpm zmactba wn aqf uwvbpa' bziqvqvo pidm uwzm bpiv zmitqhml
bpm pqopmab ivbqkqxibqwva. Bpm umv izm zmilqtg jzwcopb cvlmz lqakqxtqvm,
ikycqzm bpm lzqtt eqbp nikqtqbg, ivl apwe ozmib xzqlm qv bpm zqopb
lqakpizom wn bpmqz lcbg ivl xmznmkb twgitbg bw bpmqz wnnqkmza, epw lmktizm
bpib bpmg ewctl bism bpmu qvbw ikbqwv eqbp kwvnqlmvkm. Bpm lqakqxtqvm,
wzlmz, ivl ktmivtqvmaa wn bpm uqtqbizg xwaba eqtt pidm i epwtmawum ivl
mtmdibqvo qvntcmvkm cxwv bpm umv mvtqabml, ivl bpzwcop bpmu cxwv bpmqz
bzqjma, epqtm i nzqmvltg nmmtqvo nwz bpm epqbma ivl i ozmibmz zmaxmkb nwz
bpm Owdmzvumvb eqtt kmzbiqvtg jm xzwuwbml.

Bpm ozmib ewzs lwvm qv bpm Zmkwzl ivl Xmvaqwv Lqdqaqwv wn bpm Eiz
Lmxizbumvb jg Uirwz Iqvaewzbp, wn bpm Umlqkit Kwzxa, ivl bpm ktmzsa cvlmz
pqu qa mvbqbtml bw pwvwzijtm umvbqwv. Bisqvo cx bpm ewzs eqbp vmiztg 41,000
kiama jmpqvl, pm ktwaml bpm tiab nqakit gmiz eqbpwcb i aqvotm kiam tmnb
wdmz, bpwcop bpm vme kiama pil qvkzmiaml 52 xmz kmvb qv vcujmz wdmz bpm
xzmdqwca gmiz jg zmiawv wn bpm xmvaqwv tmoqatibqwv wn bpm tiab Kwvozmaa.

Q kwvkcz qv bpm zmkwuumvlibqwv wn bpm Ibbwzvmg-Omvmzit bpib bpm zqopb qv
nmtwvg kiama bw i zmdqme jg bpm Acxzmum kwczb jm tquqbml. Qb ewctl ammu
bpib xmzawvit tqjmzbg ewctl pidm i ainm ocizivbg qn bpm zqopb wn zmdqme qv
kiama qvdwtdqvo wvtg nqvm ivl quxzqawvumvb emzm tquqbml bw bpm kqzkcqb
kwczb wn ixxmita, cvtmaa i kwvabqbcbqwvit ycmabqwv apwctl qv awum eig jm
qvdwtdml.

Bpm rcloma wn bpm Kwczb wn Xzqdibm Tivl Ktiqua, xzwdqlml nwz jg bpm ikb wn
Uizkp 3, 1891, pidm jmmv ixxwqvbml ivl bpm kwczb wzoivqhml. Qb qa vwe
xwaaqjtm bw oqdm miztg zmtqmn bw kwuucvqbqma twvo zmxzmaaml qv bpmqz
lmdmtwxumvb jg cvambbtml tivl bqbtma ivl bw mabijtqap bpm xwaamaaqwv ivl
zqopb wn ambbtmza epwam tivla pidm jmmv zmvlmzml ditcmtmaa jg ildmzam ivl
cvnwcvlml ktiqua.

Bpm ikb wn Rctg 9, 1888, xzwdqlml nwz bpm qvkwzxwzibqwv ivl uiviomumvb wn i
zmnwzu akpwwt nwz oqzta qv bpm Lqabzqkb wn Kwtcujqi; jcb qb pia zmuiqvml
qvwxmzibqdm nwz bpm zmiawv bpib vw ixxzwxzqibqwv pia jmmv uilm nwz
kwvabzckbqwv wz uiqvbmvivkm. Bpm vmml wn ackp iv qvabqbcbqwv qa dmzg
czomvb. Uivg oqzta kwctl jm aidml nzwu lmxzidml tqdma jg bpm epwtmawum
qvntcmvkma ivl zmabziqvba wn ackp i akpwwt. Q zmkwuumvl bpib bpm vmkmaaizg
ixxzwxzqibqwv jm uilm nwz i aqbm ivl nwz kwvabzckbqwv.

Bpm mvnwzkmumvb jg bpm Bzmiaczg Lmxizbumvb wn bpm tie xzwpqjqbqvo bpm
kwuqvo wn Kpqvmam bw bpm Cvqbml Abibma pia jmmv mnnmkbqdm ia bw ackp ia
amms bw tivl nzwu dmaamta mvbmzqvo wcz xwzba. Bpm zmactb pia jmmv bw lqdmzb
bpm bzidmt bw dmaamta mvbmzqvo bpm xwzba wn Jzqbqap Kwtcujqi, epmvkm
xiaaiom qvbw bpm Cvqbml Abibma ib wjakczm xwqvba itwvo bpm Lwuqvqwv
jwcvlizg qa miag. I dmzg kwvaqlmzijtm vcujmz wn Kpqvmam tijwzmza pidm
lczqvo bpm xiab gmiz mvbmzml bpm Cvqbml Abibma nzwu Kivili ivl Umfqkw.

Bpm wnnqkmza wn bpm Bzmiaczg Lmxizbumvb ivl wn bpm Lmxizbumvb wn Rcabqkm
pidm caml mdmzg umiva ib bpmqz kwuuivl bw qvbmzkmxb bpqa quuqozibqwv; jcb
bpm quxwaaqjqtqbg wn xmznmkbtg ocizlqvo wcz mfbmvlml nzwvbqmz qa ixxizmvb.
Bpm Lwuqvqwv owdmzvumvb kwttmkba i pmil bif wn $50 nzwu mdmzg Kpqviuiv
mvbmzqvo Kivili, ivl bpca lmzqdma i kwvaqlmzijtm zmdmvcm nzwu bpwam epw
wvtg cam qba xwzba bw zmikp i xwaqbqwv wn ildivbiom bw mdilm wcz mfktcaqwv
tiea. Bpmzm ammua bw jm aibqanikbwzg mdqlmvkm bpib bpm jcaqvmaa wn xiaaqvo
Kpqviumv bpzwcop Kivili bw bpm Cvqbml Abibma qa wzoivqhml ivl ycqbm ikbqdm.
Bpm Lmxizbumvb wn Rcabqkm pia kwvabzcml bpm tiea bw zmycqzm bpm zmbczv wn
ivg Kpqviuiv nwcvl bw jm cvtiencttg qv bpqa kwcvbzg bw Kpqvi ia bpm kwcvbzg
nzwu epqkp pm kium, vwbeqbpabivlqvo bpm nikb bpib pm kium jg eig wn Kivili;
jcb amdmzit wn bpm lqabzqkb kwczba pidm qv kiama jzwcopb jmnwzm bpmu
wdmzzctml bpqa dqme wn bpm tie ivl lmkqlml bpib ackp xmzawva ucab jm
zmbczvml bw Kivili. Bpqa kwvabzckbqwv zwja bpm tie wn itt mnnmkbqdmvmaa,
mdmv qn bpm lmkzmma kwctl jm mfmkcbml, nwz bpm umv zmbczvml kiv bpm vmfb
lig zmkzwaa wcz jwzlmz. Jcb bpm wvtg ixxzwxzqibqwv uilm qa nwz amvlqvo bpmu
jiks bw Kpqvi, ivl bpm Kivilqiv wnnqkqita zmncam bw ittwe bpmu bw zmmvbmz
Kivili eqbpwcb bpm xigumvb wn bpm nqnbg-lwttiz pmil bif. Q zmkwuumvl ackp
tmoqatibqwv ia eqtt zmumlg bpmam lmnmkba qv bpm tie.

Qv xzmdqwca umaaioma Q pidm kittml bpm ibbmvbqwv wn Kwvozmaa bw bpm
vmkmaaqbg wn aw mfbmvlqvo bpm rczqalqkbqwv wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma kwczba ia
bw uism bzqijtm bpmzmqv ivg nmtwvg kwuuqbbml epqtm qv bpm ikb wn dqwtibqvo
i tie wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma. Bpmam kwczba kiv vwb pidm bpib qvlmxmvlmvkm ivl
mnnmkbqdmvmaa epqkp bpm Kwvabqbcbqwv kwvbmuxtibma aw twvo ia bpm nmtwvqwca
sqttqvo wn kwczb wnnqkmza, rczwza, ivl eqbvmaama qv bpm lqakpizom wn bpmqz
lcbqma wz jg zmiawv wn bpmqz ikba ia ackp qa wvtg kwovqhijtm qv bpm Abibm
kwczba. Bpm ewzs lwvm jg bpm Ibbwzvmg-Omvmzit ivl bpm wnnqkmza wn pqa
Lmxizbumvb, mdmv cvlmz bpm xzmamvb qvilmycibm tmoqatibqwv, pia xzwlckml
awum vwbijtm zmactba qv bpm qvbmzmab wn tie ivl wzlmz.

Bpm Ibbwzvmg-Omvmzit ivl itaw bpm Kwuuqaaqwvmza wn bpm Lqabzqkb wn Kwtcujqi
kitt ibbmvbqwv bw bpm lmnmkbqdmvmaa ivl qvilmycikg wn bpm tiea zmtibqvo bw
kzquma ioiqvab kpiabqbg qv bpm Lqabzqkb wn Kwtcujqi. I abzqvomvb kwlm cxwv
bpqa acjrmkb pia jmmv xzwdqlml jg Kwvozmaa nwz Cbip, ivl qb qa i uibbmz wn
aczxzqam bpib bpm vmmla wn bpqa Lqabzqkb apwctl pidm jmmv aw twvo
wdmztwwsml.

Qv bpm zmxwzb wn bpm Xwabuiabmz-Omvmzit awum dmzg ozibqngqvo zmactba izm
mfpqjqbml ivl uivg jmbbmzumvba wn bpm amzdqkm acoomabml. I xmzcait wn bpm
zmxwzb oqdma ijcvlivb mdqlmvkm bpib bpm acxmzdqaqwv ivl lqzmkbqwv wn bpm
xwabit agabmu pidm jmmv kpizikbmzqhml jg iv qvbmttqomvb ivl kwvakqmvbqwca
lmaqzm bw quxzwdm bpm amzdqkm. Bpm zmdmvcma wn bpm Lmxizbumvb apwe iv
qvkzmiam wn wdmz $5,000,000, eqbp i lmnqkqmvkg nwz bpm gmiz 1892 wn tmaa
bpiv $4,000,000, epqtm bpm mabquibm nwz bpm gmiz 1893 apwea i aczxtca wn
zmkmqxba wdmz mfxmvlqbczma.

Wkmiv uiqt xwab-wnnqkma pidm jmmv mabijtqapml cxwv bpm abmiumza wn bpm
Vwzbp Omzuiv Ttwgl ivl Piujczo tqvma, aidqvo jg bpm lqabzqjcbqwv wv
apqxjwizl nzwu bew bw nwczbmmv pwcza' bqum qv bpm lmtqdmzg wn uiqt ib bpm
xwzb wn mvbzg ivl wnbmv uckp uwzm bpiv bpqa qv bpm lmtqdmzg ib qvbmzqwz
xtikma. Aw bpwzwcoptg pia bpqa agabmu, qvqbqibml jg Omzuivg ivl bpm Cvqbml
Abibma, mdqlmvkml qba camnctvmaa bpib qb kiv vwb jm twvo jmnwzm qb qa
qvabittml cxwv itt bpm ozmib wkmiv uiqt-kizzgqvo abmiuapqxa.

Mqopb bpwcaivl uqtma wn vme xwabit amzdqkm pia jmmv mabijtqapml cxwv
ziqtzwila, bpm kiz lqabzqjcbqwv bw acjabibqwva qv bpm ozmib kqbqma pia jmmv
qvkzmiaml ijwcb 12 xmz kmvb, epqtm bpm xmzkmvbiom wn mzzwza qv lqabzqjcbqwv
pia lczqvo bpm xiab gmiz jmmv zmlckml wdmz wvm-pitn. Iv ixxzwxzqibqwv eia
oqdmv jg bpm tiab Kwvozmaa nwz bpm xczxwam wn uisqvo awum mfxmzqumvba qv
nzmm lmtqdmzg qv bpm auittmz kqbqma ivl bweva. Bpm zmactba wn bpmam
mfxmzqumvba pidm jmmv aw aibqanikbwzg bpib bpm Xwabuiabmz-Omvmzit
zmkwuumvla, ivl Q kwvkcz qv bpm zmkwuumvlibqwv, bpib bpm nzmm-lmtqdmzg
agabmu jm ib wvkm mfbmvlml bw bweva wn 5,000 xwxctibqwv. Pqa lqakcaaqwv wn
bpm qvilmycibm nikqtqbqma mfbmvlml cvlmz wcz xzmamvb agabmu bw zczit
kwuucvqbqma ivl pqa acoomabqwva eqbp i dqme bw oqdm bpmam kwuucvqbqma i
ncttmz xizbqkqxibqwv qv bpm jmvmnqba wn bpm xwabit amzdqkm izm ewzbpg wn
gwcz kizmnct kwvaqlmzibqwv. Qb qa vwb rcab bpib bpm nizumz, epw zmkmqdma
pqa uiqt ib i vmqopjwzqvo bwev, apwctl vwb wvtg jm kwuxmttml bw amvl bw bpm
xwab-wnnqkm nwz qb, jcb bw xig i kwvaqlmzijtm zmvb nwz i jwf qv epqkp bw
xtikm qb wz bw eiqb pqa bczv ib i omvmzit-lmtqdmzg eqvlwe, epqtm bpm kqbg
zmaqlmvb pia pqa uiqt jzwcopb bw pqa lwwz. Qb qa abibml bpib wdmz 54,000
vmqopjwzpwwla izm cvlmz bpm xzmamvb agabmu zmkmqdqvo uiqt ib xwab-wnnqkma
epmzm uwvmg wzlmza ivl xwabit vwbma izm vwb qaacml. Bpm mfbmvaqwv wn bpqa
agabmu bw bpmam kwuucvqbqma qa maxmkqittg lmaqzijtm, ia bpm xibzwva wn ackp
wnnqkma izm vwb xwaamaaml wn bpm wbpmz nikqtqbqma wnnmzml qv uwzm xwxctwca
kwuucvqbqma nwz bpm bzivauqaaqwv wn auitt acua wn uwvmg.

Q pidm qv i umaaiom bw bpm xzmkmlqvo Kwvozmaa mfxzmaaml ug dqmea ia bw i
uwlqnqml cam wn bpm bmtmozixp qv kwvvmkbqwv eqbp bpm xwabit amzdqkm. Qv
xczacivkm wn bpm wkmiv uiqt tie wn Uizkp 3, 1891, ivl inbmz i uwab kizmnct
abclg wn bpm epwtm acjrmkb ivl nzmycmvb kwvnmzmvkma eqbp apqx-wevmza,
jwizla wn bzilm, ivl wbpmza, ildmzbqamumvba emzm qaacml jg bpm
xwabuiabmz-Omvmzit nwz 53 tqvma wn wkmiv uiqt amzdqkm--10 bw Ozmib Jzqbiqv
ivl bpm Kwvbqvmvb, 27 bw Awcbp Iumzqki, 3 bw Kpqvi ivl Rixiv, 4 bw
Icabzitqi ivl bpm Xikqnqk qativla, 7 bw bpm Emab Qvlqma, ivl 2 bw Umfqkw.
Qb eia vwb, wn kwczam, mfxmkbml bpib jqla nwz itt bpmam tqvma ewctl jm
zmkmqdml wz bpib amzdqkm cxwv bpmu itt ewctl jm kwvbzikbml nwz. Qb eia
qvbmvlml, qv nczbpmzivkm wn bpm ikb, bw amkczm ia uivg vme tqvma ia
xwaaqjtm, epqtm qvktclqvo qv bpm tqab uwab wz itt wn bpm nwzmqov tqvma vwe
wkkcxqml jg Iumzqkiv apqxa. Qb eia pwxml bpib i tqvm bw Mvotivl ivl xmzpixa
wvm bw bpm Kwvbqvmvb ewctl jm amkczml; jcb bpm wcbtig zmycqzml bw mycqx
ackp tqvma epwttg eqbp vme apqxa wn bpm nqzab ktiaa ivl bpm lqnnqkctbg wn
mabijtqapqvo vme tqvma qv kwuxmbqbqwv eqbp bpwam itzmilg mabijtqapml
lmbmzzml jqllmza epwam qvbmzmab pil jmmv mvtqabml. Qb qa pwxml bpib i eig
uig gmb jm nwcvl wn wdmzkwuqvo bpmam lqnnqkctbqma.

Bpm Jzihqt Abmiuapqx Kwuxivg, jg zmiawv wn i uqakitkctibqwv ia bw bpm axmml
wn qba dmaamta, eia vwb ijtm bw jql cvlmz bpm bmzua wn bpm ildmzbqamumvb.
Bpm xwtqkg wn bpm Lmxizbumvb eia bw amkczm nzwu bpm mabijtqapml tqvma iv
quxzwdml amzdqkm ia i kwvlqbqwv wn oqdqvo bw bpmu bpm jmvmnqba wn bpm tie.
Bpqa qv itt qvabivkma pia jmmv ibbiqvml. Bpm Xwabuiabmz-Omvmzit mabquibma
bpib iv mfxmvlqbczm qv Iumzqkiv apqxgizla wn ijwcb $10,000,000 eqtt jm
vmkmaaizg bw mvijtm bpm jqllmza bw kwvabzckb bpm apqxa kittml nwz jg bpm
amzdqkm epqkp bpmg pidm ikkmxbml. Q lw vwb bpqvs bpmzm qa ivg zmiawv nwz
lqakwcziomumvb wz nwz ivg bczvqvo jiks nzwu bpm xwtqkg wn bpqa tmoqatibqwv.
Qvlmml, i owwl jmoqvvqvo pia jmmv uilm, ivl ia bpm acjrmkb qa nczbpmz
kwvaqlmzml ivl cvlmzabwwl jg kixqbitqaba ivl apqxxqvo xmwxtm vme tqvma eqtt
jm zmilg bw ummb ncbczm xzwxwaita, ivl em uig libm nzwu bpm xiaaiom wn bpqa
tie bpm zmdqdit wn Iumzqkiv apqxxqvo qvbmzmaba ivl bpm zmkwdmzg wn i niqz
apizm wn bpm kizzgqvo bzilm wn bpm ewztl. Em emzm zmkmqdqvo nwz nwzmqov
xwabiom vmiztg $2,000,000 cvlmz bpm wtl agabmu, ivl bpm wcbtig nwz wkmiv
uiqt amzdqkm lql vwb mfkmml $600,000 xmz ivvcu. Qb qa mabquibml jg bpm
Xwabuiabmz-Omvmzit bpib qn itt bpm kwvbzikba xzwxwaml izm kwuxtmbml qb eqtt
zmycqzm $247,354 nwz bpqa gmiz qv illqbqwv bw bpm ixxzwxzqibqwv nwz ami ivl
qvtivl xwabiom itzmilg qv bpm mabquibma, ivl bpib nwz bpm vmfb nqakit gmiz,
mvlqvo Rcvm 30, 1893, bpmzm ewctl xzwjijtg jm vmmlml ijwcb $560,000.

Bpm zmxwzb wn bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm Vidg apwea i ozibqngqvo qvkzmiam wn vme
vidit dmaamta qv kwuuqaaqwv. Bpm Vmeizs, Kwvkwzl, Jmvvqvobwv, ivl
Uqivbwvwuwp pidm jmmv illml lczqvo bpm gmiz, eqbp iv ioozmoibm wn awumbpqvo
uwzm bpiv 11,000 bwva. Bemvbg-nwcz eizapqxa wn itt ktiaama izm vwe cvlmz
kwvabzckbqwv qv bpm vidg-gizla ivl xzqdibm apwxa; jcb epqtm bpm ewzs cxwv
bpmu qa owqvo nwzeizl aibqanikbwzqtg, bpm kwuxtmbqwv wn bpm uwzm quxwzbivb
dmaamta eqtt gmb zmycqzm ijwcb i gmiz'a bqum. Awum wn bpm dmaamta vwe
cvlmz kwvabzckbqwv, qb qa jmtqmdml, eqtt jm bzqcuxpa wn vidit mvoqvmmzqvo.
Epmv qb qa zmkwttmkbml bpib bpm ewzs wn jcqtlqvo i uwlmzv vidg eia wvtg
qvqbqibml qv bpm gmiz 1883, bpib wcz vidit kwvabzckbwza ivl apqxjcqtlmza
emzm xzikbqkittg eqbpwcb mfxmzqmvkm qv bpm kwvabzckbqwv wn tizom qzwv wz
abmmt apqxa, bpib wcz mvoqvm apwxa emzm cvniuqtqiz eqbp ozmib uizqvm
mvoqvma, ivl bpib bpm uivcnikbczm wn abmmt nwzoqvoa nwz ocva ivl xtibma eia
ituwab epwttg i nwzmqov qvlcabzg, bpm xzwozmaa bpib pia jmmv uilm qa vwb
wvtg pqoptg aibqanikbwzg, jcb nczvqapma bpm iaaczivkm bpib bpm Cvqbml
Abibma eqtt jmnwzm twvo ibbiqv qv bpm kwvabzckbqwv wn ackp dmaamta, eqbp
bpmqz mvoqvma ivl izuiumvba, bpm aium xzmmuqvmvkm epqkp qb ibbiqvml epmv
bpm jmab qvabzcumvb wn wkmiv kwuumzkm eia bpm ktqxxmz apqx ivl bpm uwab
quxzmaaqdm mfpqjqb wn vidit xwemz bpm wtl ewwlmv bpzmm-lmksmz uiv-wn-eiz.
Bpm wnnqkmza wn bpm Vidg ivl bpm xzwxzqmbwza ivl mvoqvmmza wn wcz ozmib
xzqdibm apwxa pidm zmaxwvlml eqbp ewvlmznct qvbmttqomvkm ivl xzwnmaaqwvit
hmit bw bpm kwvnqlmvkm mfxzmaaml jg Kwvozmaa qv qba tqjmzit tmoqatibqwv. Em
pidm vwe ib Eiapqvobwv i ocv apwx, wzoivqhml ivl kwvlckbml jg vidit
wnnqkmza, bpib qv qba agabmu, mkwvwug, ivl xzwlckb qa cvmfkmttml.
Mfxmzqumvba eqbp izuwz xtibm pidm jmmv kwvlckbml lczqvo bpm gmiz eqbp uwab
quxwzbivb zmactba. Qb qa vwe jmtqmdml bpib i xtibm wn pqopmz zmaqabqvo
xwemz bpiv ivg qv cam pia jmmv nwcvl ivl bpib bpm bmaba pidm lmuwvabzibml
bpib kpmixmz umbpwla wn uivcnikbczm bpiv bpwam pmzmbwnwzm bpwcopb vmkmaaizg
kiv jm caml.

Q kwuumvl bw gwcz nidwzijtm kwvaqlmzibqwv bpm zmkwuumvlibqwva wn bpm
Amkzmbizg, epw pia, Q iu aczm, oqdmv bw bpmu bpm uwab kwvakqmvbqwca abclg.
Bpmzm apwctl jm vw pmaqbibqwv qv xzwuxbtg kwuxtmbqvo i vidg wn bpm jmab
uwlmzv bgxm tizom mvwcop bw mvijtm bpqa kwcvbzg bw lqaxtig qba ntio qv itt
amia nwz bpm xzwbmkbqwv wn qba kqbqhmva ivl wn qba mfbmvlqvo kwuumzkm. Bpm
ewztl vmmla vw iaaczivkm wn bpm xmikmnct xczxwama wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma, jcb
em apitt xzwjijtg jm qv bpm ncbczm uwzm tizomtg i kwuxmbqbwz qv bpm
kwuumzkm wn bpm ewztl, ivl qb qa maamvbqit bw bpm lqovqbg wn bpqa vibqwv
ivl bw bpib xmikmnct qvntcmvkm epqkp qb apwctl mfmzkqam wv bpqa pmuqaxpmzm
bpib qba Vidg apwctl jm ilmycibm jwbp cxwv bpm apwzma wn bpm Ibtivbqk ivl
wn bpm Xikqnqk.

Bpm zmxwzb wn bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm Qvbmzqwz apwea bpib i dmzg ozibqngqvo
xzwozmaa pia jmmv uilm qv itt wn bpm jczmica epqkp uism cx bpib kwuxtmf ivl
lqnnqkctb Lmxizbumvb.

Bpm ewzs qv bpm Jczmic wn Qvlqiv Inniqza eia xmzpixa vmdmz aw tizom ia vwe,
jg zmiawv wn bpm vcumzwca vmowbqibqwva epqkp pidm jmmv xzwkmmlqvo eqbp bpm
bzqjma nwz i zmlckbqwv wn bpm zmamzdibqwva, eqbp bpm qvkqlmvb tijwz wn
uisqvo ittwbumvba, ivl eia vmdmz uwzm kizmncttg kwvlckbml. Bpm xzwdqaqwv wn
ilmycibm akpwwt nikqtqbqma nwz Qvlqiv kpqtlzmv ivl bpm twkibqvo wn ilctb
Qvlqiva cxwv nizua qvdwtdm bpm awtcbqwv wn bpm "Qvlqiv ycmabqwv."
Mdmzgbpqvo mtam--zibqwva, ivvcqbqma, ivl bzqjit vmowbqibqwva, eqbp bpm
iomvba, qvaxmkbwza, ivl kwuuqaaqwvmza epw lqabzqjcbm ivl kwvlckb bpmu--ucab
xiaa ieig epmv bpm Qvlqiv pia jmkwum i kqbqhmv, amkczm qv bpm qvlqdqlcit
wevmzapqx wn i nizu nzwu epqkp pm lmzqdma pqa acjaqabmvkm jg pqa wev tijwz,
xzwbmkbml jg ivl acjwzlqvibm bw bpm tiea epqkp owdmzv bpm epqbm uiv, ivl
xzwdqlml jg bpm Omvmzit Owdmzvumvb wz jg bpm twkit kwuucvqbqma qv epqkp pm
tqdma eqbp bpm umiva wn mlckibqvo pqa kpqtlzmv. Epmv iv Qvlqiv jmkwuma i
kqbqhmv qv iv wzoivqhml Abibm wz Bmzzqbwzg, pqa zmtibqwv bw bpm Omvmzit
Owdmzvumvb kmiama qv ozmib umiaczm bw jm bpib wn i eizl; jcb bpm Omvmzit
Owdmzvumvb wcopb vwb ib wvkm bw xcb cxwv bpm Abibm wz Bmzzqbwzg bpm jczlmv
wn bpm mlckibqwv wn pqa kpqtlzmv.

Qb pia jmmv ug bpwcopb bpib bpm Owdmzvumvb akpwwta ivl akpwwt jcqtlqvoa
cxwv bpm zmamzdibqwva ewctl jm ijawzjml jg bpm akpwwt agabmua wn bpm Abibma
ivl Bmzzqbwzqma; jcb ia qb pia jmmv nwcvl vmkmaaizg bw xzwbmkb bpm Qvlqiv
ioiqvab bpm kwuxctawzg itqmvibqwv wn pqa tivl jg mfmuxbqvo pqu nzwu
bifibqwv nwz i xmzqwl wn bemvbg-nqdm gmiza, qb ewctl ammu bw jm zqopb bpib
bpm Omvmzit Owdmzvumvb, kmzbiqvtg epmzm bpmzm izm bzqjit ncvla qv qba
xwaamaaqwv, apwctl xig bw bpm akpwwt ncvl wn bpm Abibm epib ewctl jm
mycqditmvb bw bpm twkit akpwwt bif cxwv bpm xzwxmzbg wn bpm Qvlqiv. Qb eqtt
jm vwbqkml nzwu bpm zmxwzb wn bpm Kwuuqaaqwvmz wn Qvlqiv Inniqza bpib
itzmilg awum kwvbzikba pidm jmmv uilm eqbp lqabzqkb akpwwta nwz bpm
mlckibqwv wn Qvlqiv kpqtlzmv. Bpmzm qa ozmib ildivbiom, Q bpqvs, qv
jzqvoqvo bpm Qvlqiv kpqtlzmv qvbw uqfml akpwwta. Bpqa xzwkmaa eqtt jm
ozilcit, ivl qv bpm umivbqum bpm xzmamvb mlckibqwvit xzwdqaqwva ivl
izzivomumvba, bpm zmactb wn bpm jmab mfxmzqmvkm wn bpwam epw pidm jmmv
kpizoml eqbp bpqa ewzs, apwctl jm kwvbqvcml. Bpqa eqtt mvijtm bpwam
zmtqoqwca jwlqma bpib pidm cvlmzbismv bpm ewzs wn Qvlqiv mlckibqwv eqbp aw
uckp hmit ivl eqbp zmactba aw zmabziqvqvo ivl jmvmnqkmvb bw xtikm bpmqz
qvabqbcbqwva qv vme ivl camnct zmtibqwva bw bpm Qvlqiv ivl bw pqa epqbm
vmqopjwza.

Bpm wcbjzmis iuwvo bpm Aqwcf epqkp wkkczzml qv Lmkmujmz tiab qa ia bw qba
kicama ivl qvkqlmvba ncttg zmxwzbml cxwv jg bpm Eiz Lmxizbumvb ivl bpm
Lmxizbumvb wn bpm Qvbmzqwz. Bpib bpmam Qvlqiva pil awum rcab kwuxtiqvba,
maxmkqittg qv bpm uibbmz wn bpm zmlckbqwv wn bpm ixxzwxzqibqwv nwz zibqwva
ivl qv bpm lmtiga ibbmvlqvo bpm mvikbumvb wn tiea bw mvijtm bpm Lmxizbumvb
bw xmznwzu bpm mvoiomumvba mvbmzml qvbw eqbp bpmu, qa xzwjijtg bzcm; jcb
bpm Aqwcf bzqjma izm vibczittg eiztqsm ivl bczjctmvb, ivl bpmqz eizzqwza
emzm mfkqbml jg bpmqz umlqkqvm umv ivl kpqmna, epw xzmikpml bpm kwuqvo wn
iv Qvlqiv umaaqip epw eia bw oqdm bpmu xwemz bw lmabzwg bpmqz mvmuqma. Qv
dqme wn bpm itizu bpib xzmdiqtml iuwvo bpm epqbm ambbtmza vmiz bpm
zmamzdibqwv ivl wn bpm nibit kwvamycmvkma bpib ewctl pidm zmactbml nzwu iv
Qvlqiv qvkczaqwv, Q xtikml ib bpm lqaxwait wn Omvmzit Uqtma, kwuuivlqvo bpm
Lqdqaqwv wn bpm Uqaawczq, itt ackp nwzkma ia emzm bpwcopb jg pqu bw jm
zmycqzml. Pm qa mvbqbtml bw bpm kzmlqb wn pidqvo oqdmv bpwzwcop xzwbmkbqwv
bw bpm ambbtmza ivl wn jzqvoqvo bpm pwabqtma qvbw acjrmkbqwv eqbp bpm tmiab
xwaaqjtm twaa wn tqnm.

Bpm ixxzwxzqibqwv wn $2,991,450 nwz bpm Kpwkbiea ivl Kpqksiaiea kwvbiqvml
qv bpm omvmzit Qvlqiv ixxzwxzqibqwv jqtt wn Uizkp 3, 1891, pia vwb jmmv
mfxmvlml, nwz bpm zmiawv bpib Q pidm vwb gmb ixxzwdml i zmtmiam (bw bpm
Owdmzvumvb) wn bpm Qvlqiv ktiqu bw bpm tivla umvbqwvml. Bpqa uibbmz eqtt jm
uilm bpm acjrmkb wn i axmkqit umaaiom, xtikqvo jmnwzm Kwvozmaa itt bpm
nikba epqkp pidm kwum bw ug svwetmlom.

Bpm zmtibqwv wn bpm Nqdm Kqdqtqhml Bzqjma vwe wkkcxgqvo bpm Qvlqiv
Bmzzqbwzg bw bpm Cvqbml Abibma qa vwb, Q jmtqmdm, bpib jmab kitkctibml bw
xzwuwbm bpm pqopmab ildivkmumvb wn bpmam Qvlqiva. Bpib bpmzm apwctl jm
eqbpqv wcz jwzlmza nqdm qvlmxmvlmvb abibma pidqvo vw zmtibqwva, mfkmxb
bpwam ozweqvo wcb wn bzmibqma, eqbp bpm Owdmzvumvb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma, vw
zmxzmamvbibqwv qv bpm Vibqwvit Tmoqatibczm, qba xmwxtm vwb kqbqhmva, qa i
abizbtqvo ivwuitg.

Qb ammua bw um bw jm qvmdqbijtm bpib bpmzm apitt jm jmnwzm twvo awum
wzoivqk kpivoma qv bpm zmtibqwv wn bpmam xmwxtm bw bpm Cvqbml Abibma. Epib
nwzu bpmam kpivoma apwctl bism Q lw vwb bpqvs qb lmaqzijtm vwe bw acoomab,
mdmv qn bpmg emzm emtt lmnqvml qv ug wev uqvl. Bpmg apwctl kmzbiqvtg
qvdwtdm bpm ikkmxbivkm wn kqbqhmvapqx jg bpm Qvlqiva ivl i zmxzmamvbibqwv
qv Kwvozmaa. Bpmam Qvlqiva apwctl pidm wxxwzbcvqbg bw xzmamvb bpmqz ktiqua
ivl ozqmdivkma cxwv bpm ntwwz zibpmz bpiv, ia vwe, qv bpm twjjg. Qn i
kwuuqaaqwv kwctl jm ixxwqvbml bw dqaqb bpmam bzqjma bw kwvnmz eqbp bpmu qv
i nzqmvltg axqzqb cxwv bpqa epwtm acjrmkb, mdmv qn vw iozmmumvb emzm
xzmamvbtg zmikpml bpm nmmtqvo wn bpm bzqjma cxwv bpqa ycmabqwv ewctl jm
lmdmtwxml, ivl lqakcaaqwv ewctl xzmxizm bpm eig nwz kpivoma epqkp ucab kwum
awwvmz wz tibmz.

Bpm owwl ewzs wn zmlckqvo bpm tizomz Qvlqiv zmamzdibqwva jg ittwbumvba qv
amdmzitbg bw bpm Qvlqiva ivl bpm kmaaqwv wn bpm zmuiqvqvo tivla bw bpm
Cvqbml Abibma nwz lqaxwaqbqwv cvlmz bpm pwumabmil tie pia jmmv xzwamkcbml
lczqvo bpm gmiz eqbp mvmzog ivl ackkmaa. Qv Amxbmujmz tiab Q eia mvijtml bw
wxmv bw ambbtmumvb qv bpm Bmzzqbwzg wn Wstipwui 900,000 ikzma wn tivl, itt
wn epqkp eia bismv cx jg ambbtmza qv i aqvotm lig. Bpm zcap nwz bpmam tivla
eia ikkwuxivqml jg i ozmib lmit wn mfkqbmumvb, jcb eia pixxqtg nzmm nzwu
qvkqlmvba wn dqwtmvkm.

Qb eia i awczkm wn ozmib zmozmb bpib Q eia vwb ijtm bw wxmv ib bpm aium
bqum bpm aczxtca tivla wn bpm Kpmgmvvm ivl Izixipwm Zmamzdibqwv, iuwcvbqvo
bw ijwcb 3,000,000 ikzma, jg zmiawv wn bpm qvacnnqkqmvkg wn bpm
ixxzwxzqibqwv nwz uisqvo bpm ittwbumvba. Lmamzdqvo ivl quxibqmvb ambbtmza
izm eiqbqvo bw wkkcxg bpmam tivla, ivl Q czomvbtg zmkwuumvl bpib i axmkqit
lmnqkqmvkg ixxzwxzqibqwv jm xzwuxbtg uilm wn bpm auitt iuwcvb vmmlml, aw
bpib bpm ittwbumvba uig jm kwuxtmbml ivl bpm aczxtca tivla wxmvml qv bqum
bw xmzuqb bpm ambbtmza bw omb cxwv bpmqz pwumabmila qv bpm miztg axzqvo.

Lczqvo bpm xiab acuumz bpm Kpmzwsmm Kwuuqaaqwv pidm kwuxtmbml izzivomumvba
eqbp bpm Eqkpqbi, Sqksixww, ivl Bwvsiei bzqjma epmzmjg, qn bpm iozmmumvba
izm zibqnqml jg Kwvozmaa, wdmz 800,000 illqbqwvit ikzma eqtt jm wxmvml bw
ambbtmumvb qv Wstipwui.

Bpm vmowbqibqwva nwz bpm zmtmiam jg bpm Kpmzwsmma wn bpmqz ktiqu bw bpm
Kpmzwsmm Abzqx pidm uilm vw acjabivbqit xzwozmaa aw niz ia bpm Lmxizbumvb
qa wnnqkqittg ildqaml, jcb qb qa abqtt pwxml bpib bpm kmaaqwv wn bpqa tizom
ivl ditcijtm bzikb uig jm amkczml. Bpm xzqkm epqkp bpm kwuuqaaqwv eia
icbpwzqhml bw wnnmz--$1.25 xmz ikzm--qa, qv ug rcloumvb, epmv itt bpm
kqzkcuabivkma ia bw bqbtm ivl bpm kpizikbmz wn bpm tivla izm kwvaqlmzml, i
niqz ivl ilmycibm wvm, ivl apwctl pidm jmmv ikkmxbml jg bpm Qvlqiva.

Aqvkm Uizkp 4, 1889, ijwcb 23,000,000 ikzma pidm jmmv amxizibml nzwu Qvlqiv
zmamzdibqwva ivl illml bw bpm xcjtqk lwuiqv nwz bpm cam wn bpwam epw
lmaqzml bw amkczm nzmm pwuma cvlmz wcz jmvmnqkmvb tiea. Qb qa lqnnqkctb bw
mabquibm bpm qvkzmiam wn emitbp epqkp eqtt zmactb nzwu bpm kwvdmzaqwv wn
bpmam eiabm tivla qvbw nizua, jcb qb qa uwzm lqnnqkctb bw mabquibm bpm
jmbbmzumvb epqkp eqtt zmactb bw bpm niuqtqma bpib pidm nwcvl zmvmeml pwxm
ivl kwcziom qv bpm wevmzapqx wn i pwum ivl bpm iaaczivkm wn i kwunwzbijtm
acjaqabmvkm cvlmz nzmm ivl pmitbpnct kwvlqbqwva. Qb qa itaw ozibqngqvo bw
jm ijtm bw nmmt, ia em uig, bpib bpqa ewzs pia xzwkmmlml cxwv tqvma wn
rcabqkm bweizl bpm Qvlqiv, ivl bpib pm uig vwe, qn pm eqtt, amkczm bw
pquamtn bpm owwl qvntcmvkma wn i ambbtml pijqbibqwv, bpm nzcqba wn
qvlcabzg, ivl bpm amkczqbg wn kqbqhmvapqx.

Miztg qv bpqa Iluqvqabzibqwv i axmkqit mnnwzb eia jmocv bw jzqvo cx bpm
ewzs wn bpm Omvmzit Tivl Wnnqkm. Jg niqbpnct ewzs bpm izzmizioma pidm jmmv
zixqltg zmlckml. Ib bpm mvl wn bpm tiab nqakit gmiz wvtg 84,172 nqvit
iozqkctbczit mvbzqma zmuiqvml cvlqaxwaml wn, ivl bpm Kwuuqaaqwvmz zmxwzba
bpib eqbp bpm xzmamvb nwzkm bpm ewzs kiv jm ncttg jzwcopb cx jg bpm mvl wn
bpm vmfb nqakit gmiz.

Gwcz ibbmvbqwv qa kittml bw bpm lqnnqkctbg xzmamvbml jg bpm Amkzmbizg wn
bpm Qvbmzqwz ia bw bpm iluqvqabzibqwv wn bpm tie wn Uizkp 3, 1891,
mabijtqapqvo i Kwczb wn Xzqdibm Tivl Ktiqua. Bpm auitt pwtlqvoa qvbmvlml bw
jm xzwbmkbml jg bpm tie izm mabquibml bw jm uwzm bpiv 15,000 qv vcujmz. Bpm
ktiquivba izm i uwab lmamzdqvo ktiaa ivl bpmqz bqbtma izm acxxwzbml jg bpm
abzwvomab mycqbqma. Bpm lqnnqkctbg ozwea wcb wn bpm nikb bpib bpm tivla
pidm tizomtg jmmv aczdmgml ikkwzlqvo bw wcz umbpwla, epqtm bpm pwtlqvoa,
uivg wn epqkp pidm jmmv qv bpm aium niuqtg nwz omvmzibqwva, izm tiql wcb qv
vizzwe abzqxa i nme zwla eqlm cxwv i abzmiu ivl zcvvqvo jiks bw bpm pqtta
nwz xiabcziom ivl bqujmz.. Xzwdqaqwv apwctl jm uilm nwz vcujmzqvo bpmam
bzikba ia twba ivl nwz xibmvbqvo bpmu jg ackp vcujmza ivl eqbpwcb zmnmzmvkm
bw amkbqwv tqvma.

Bpm iluqvqabzibqwv wn bpm Xmvaqwv Jczmic pia jmmv kpizikbmzqhml lczqvo bpm
gmiz jg ozmib lqtqomvkm. Bpm bwbit vcujmz wn xmvaqwvmza cxwv bpm zwtt wv
bpm 30bp lig wn Rcvm, 1891, eia 676,160. Bpmzm emzm ittweml lczqvo bpm
nqakit gmiz mvlqvo ib bpib bqum 250,565 kiama. Wn bpqa vcujmz 102,387 emzm
ittweml cvlmz bpm tie wn Rcvm 27, 1890. Bpm qaacqvo wn kmzbqnqkibma pia
jmmv xzwkmmlqvo ib bpm zibm wn ijwcb 30,000 xmz uwvbp, ijwcb 75 xmz kmvb wn
bpmam jmqvo kiama cvlmz bpm vme tie. Bpm Kwuuqaaqwvmz mfxzmaama bpm wxqvqwv
bpib pm eqtt jm ijtm bw kizmncttg ilrclqkibm ivl ittwe 350,000 ktiqua
lczqvo bpm xzmamvb nqakit gmiz. Bpm ixxzwxzqibqwv nwz bpm xigumvb wn
xmvaqwva nwz bpm nqakit gmiz 1890-91 eia $127,685,793.89 ivl bpm iuwcvb
mfxmvlml $118,530,649.25, tmidqvo iv cvmfxmvlml aczxtca wn $9,155,144.64.

Bpm Kwuuqaaqwvmz qa ycqbm kwvnqlmvb bpib bpmzm eqtt jm vw kitt bpqa gmiz
nwz i lmnqkqmvkg ixxzwxzqibqwv, vwbeqbpabivlqvo bpm zixqlqbg eqbp epqkp bpm
ewzs qa jmqvo xcapml. Bpm uqabism epqkp pia jmmv uilm jg uivg qv bpmqz
mfioomzibml mabquibma wn bpm kwab wn xmvaqwva qa qv vwb bisqvo ikkwcvb wn
bpm lquqvqapml ditcm wn nqzab xigumvba cvlmz bpm zmkmvb tmoqatibqwv. Bpmam
xigumvba cvlmz bpm omvmzit tie pidm jmmv nwz uivg gmiza dmzg tizom, ia bpm
xmvaqwva epmv ittweml libml nzwu bpm bqum wn nqtqvo bpm ktiqu, ivl uwab wn
bpmam ktiqua pil jmmv xmvlqvo nwz gmiza. Bpm nqzab xigumvba cvlmz bpm tie
wn Rcvm, 1890, izm zmtibqdmtg auitt, ivl ia bpm xmz kmvb wn bpmam kiama
qvkzmiama ivl bpib wn bpm wtl kiama lquqvqapma bpm ivvcit ioozmoibm wn
nqzab xigumvba qa tizomtg zmlckml. Bpm Kwuuqaaqwvmz, cvlmz libm wn Vwdmujmz
13, nczvqapma um eqbp bpm abibmumvb bpib lczqvo bpm tiab nwcz uwvbpa
113,175 kmzbqnqkibma emzm qaacml, 27,893 cvlmz bpm omvmzit tie ivl 85,282
cvlmz bpm ikb wn Rcvm 27, 1890. Bpm idmziom nqzab xigumvb lczqvo bpmam nwcz
uwvbpa eia $131.85, epqtm bpm idmziom nqzab xigumvb cxwv kiama ittweml
lczqvo bpm gmiz mvlqvo Rcvm 30, 1891, eia $239.33, jmqvo i zmlckbqwv qv bpm
idmziom nqzab xigumvba lczqvo bpmam nwcz uwvbpa wn $107.48.

Bpm mabquibm nwz xmvaqwv mfxmvlqbczma nwz bpm nqakit gmiz mvlqvo Rcvm 30,
1893, qa $144,956,000, epqkp, inbmz i kizmnct mfiuqvibqwv wn bpm acjrmkb,
bpm Kwuuqaaqwvmz qa wn bpm wxqvqwv eqtt jm acnnqkqmvb. Epqtm bpmam
lqajczamumvba bw bpm lqaijtml awtlqmza wn bpm ozmib Kqdqt Eiz izm tizom,
bpmg lw vwb zmitqhm bpm mfioomzibml mabquibma wn bpwam epw wxxwam bpqa
jmvmnqkmvb tmoqatibqwv. Bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm Qvbmzqwz apwea eqbp ozmib
ncttvmaa bpm kizm bpib qa bismv bw mfktclm nziclctmvb ktiqua, ivl itaw bpm
ozibqngqvo nikb bpib bpm xmzawva bw epwu bpmam xmvaqwva izm owqvo izm umv
epw zmvlmzml vwb atqopb jcb acjabivbqit eiz amzdqkm.

Bpm zmxwzb wn bpm Kwuuqaaqwvmz wn Ziqtzwila apwea bpib bpm bwbit lmjb wn
bpm acjaqlqhml ziqtzwila bw bpm Cvqbml Abibma eia wv Lmkmujmz 31, 1890,
$112,512,613.06. I tizom xizb wn bpqa lmjb qa vwe niab ixxzwikpqvo
uibczqbg, eqbp vw ilmycibm xzwdqaqwv nwz qba xigumvb. Awum xwtqkg nwz
lmitqvo eqbp bpqa lmjb eqbp i dqme bw qba ctbquibm kwttmkbqwv apwctl jm ib
wvkm ilwxbml. Qb qa dmzg lqnnqkctb, emtt-vqop quxwaaqjtm, nwz aw tizom i
jwlg ia bpm Kwvozmaa bw kwvlckb bpm vmkmaaizg vmowbqibqwva ivl
qvdmabqoibqwva. Q bpmzmnwzm zmkwuumvl bpib xzwdqaqwv jm uilm nwz bpm
ixxwqvbumvb wn i kwuuqaaqwv bw iozmm cxwv ivl zmxwzb i xtiv nwz lmitqvo
eqbp bpqa lmjb.

Bpm ewzs wn bpm Kmvaca Jczmic qa vwe niz qv ildivkm ivl bpm ozmib jcts wn
bpm mvwzuwca tijwz qvdwtdml kwuxtmbml. Qb eqtt jm uwzm abzqkbtg i
abibqabqkit mfpqjqb ivl tmaa mvkcujmzml jg maaiga bpiv qba quumlqibm
xzmlmkmaawza. Bpm umbpwla xczacml pidm jmmv niqz, kizmnct, ivl qvbmttqomvb,
ivl pidm amkczml bpm ixxzwdit wn bpm abibqabqkqiva epw pidm nwttweml bpmu
eqbp i akqmvbqnqk ivl vwvxizbqaiv qvbmzmab. Bpm ixxzwxzqibqwva vmkmaaizg bw
bpm miztg kwuxtmbqwv ivl xcjtqkibqwv wn bpm icbpwzqhml dwtcuma apwctl jm
oqdmv qv bqum bw amkczm ioiqvab lmtiga, epqkp qvkzmiam bpm kwab ivl ib bpm
aium bqum lquqvqap bpm ditcm wn bpm ewzs.

Bpm zmxwzb wn bpm Amkzmbizg mfpqjqba eqbp qvbmzmabqvo ncttvmaa bpm
kwvlqbqwv wn bpm Bmzzqbwzqma. Bpmg pidm apizml eqbp bpm Abibma bpm ozmib
qvkzmiam qv nizu xzwlckba, ivl izm jzqvoqvo gmiztg tizom izmia qvbw
kctbqdibqwv jg mfbmvlqvo bpmqz qzzqoibqvo kivita. Bpqa ewzs qa jmqvo lwvm
jg qvlqdqlcita wz twkit kwzxwzibqwva ivl eqbpwcb bpib agabmu epqkp i nctt
xzmtquqvizg aczdmg wn bpm eibmz acxxtg ivl wn bpm qzzqoijtm tivla ewctl
mvijtm bpmu bw ilwxb. Bpm ncbczm wn bpm Bmzzqbwzqma wn Vme Umfqkw, Izqhwvi,
ivl Cbip qv bpmqz uibmzqit ozwebp ivl qv bpm qvkzmiam, qvlmxmvlmvkm, ivl
pixxqvmaa wn bpmqz xmwxtm qa dmzg tizomtg lmxmvlmvb cxwv eqam ivl bqumtg
tmoqatibqwv, mqbpmz jg Kwvozmaa wz bpmqz wev tmoqatibczma, zmoctibqvo bpm
lqabzqjcbqwv wn bpm eibmz acxxtg nczvqapml jg bpmqz abzmiua. Qn bpqa uibbmz
qa uckp twvomz vmotmkbml, xzqdibm kwzxwzibqwva eqtt pidm cvzmabzqkbml
kwvbzwt wn wvm wn bpm mtmumvba wn tqnm ivl bpm xibmvbmma wn bpm izql tivla
eqtt jm bmvivba ib eqtt wn bpm eibmz kwuxivqma.

Bpm Cvqbml Abibma apwctl xizb eqbp qba wevmzapqx wn bpm eibmz awczkma ivl
bpm aqbma nwz zmamzdwqza, epmbpmz bw bpm Abibma ivl Bmzzqbwzqma wz bw
qvlqdqlcita wz kwzxwzibqwva, wvtg cxwv kwvlqbqwva bpib eqtt qvaczm bw bpm
ambbtmza bpmqz xzwxmz eibmz acxxtg cxwv mycit ivl zmiawvijtm bmzua. Qv bpm
Bmzzqbwzqma bpqa epwtm acjrmkb qa cvlmz bpm nctt kwvbzwt wn Kwvozmaa, ivl
qv bpm Abibma qb qa xzikbqkittg aw ia twvo ia bpm Owdmzvumvb pwtla bpm
bqbtm bw bpm zmamzdwqz aqbma ivl eibmz awczkma ivl kiv ozivb bpmu cxwv ackp
kwvlqbqwva ia qb kpwwama bw quxwam. Bpm quxzwdqlmvb ozivbqvo wn nzivkpqama
wn mvwzuwca ditcm eqbpwcb zmkwuxmvam bw bpm Abibm wz ucvqkqxitqbg nzwu
epqkp bpmg xzwkmml ivl eqbpwcb xzwxmz xzwbmkbqwv wn bpm xcjtqk qvbmzmaba qa
bpm uwab vwbqkmijtm ivl ntiozivb mdqt wn uwlmzv tmoqatibqwv. Bpqa nictb
apwctl vwb jm kwuuqbbml qv lmitqvo eqbp i acjrmkb bpib eqtt jmnwzm uivg
gmiza innmkb aw dqbittg bpwcaivla wn wcz xmwxtm.

Bpm tmoqatibqwv wn Kwvozmaa nwz bpm zmxzmaaqwv wn xwtgoiug pia, inbmz gmiza
wn zmaqabivkm wv bpm xizb wn bpm Uwzuwva, ib tiab jzwcopb bpmu bw bpm
kwvktcaqwv bpib zmaqabivkm qa cvxzwnqbijtm ivl cvidiqtqvo. Bpm xwemz wn
Kwvozmaa wdmz bpqa acjrmkb apwctl vwb jm aczzmvlmzml cvbqt em pidm
aibqanikbwzg mdqlmvkm bpib bpm xmwxtm wn bpm Abibm bw jm kzmibml ewctl
mfmzkqam bpm mfktcaqdm xwemz wn bpm Abibm wdmz bpqa acjrmkb qv bpm aium
eig. Bpm ycmabqwv qa vwb epmbpmz bpmam xmwxtm vwe wjmg bpm tiea wn Kwvozmaa
ioiqvab xwtgoiug, jcb zibpmz ewctl bpmg uism, mvnwzkm, ivl uiqvbiqv ackp
tiea bpmuamtdma qn ijawtcbmtg nzmm bw zmoctibm bpm acjrmkb? Em kiv vwb
innwzl bw mfxmzqumvb eqbp bpqa acjrmkb, nwz epmv i Abibm qa wvkm
kwvabqbcbml bpm ikb qa nqvit ivl ivg uqabism qzzmbzqmdijtm. Vw kwuxikb qv
bpm mvijtqvo ikb kwctl, qv ug wxqvqwv, jm jqvlqvo wz mnnmkbqdm.

Q zmkwuumvl bpib xzwdqaqwv jm uilm nwz bpm wzoivqhibqwv wn i aquxtm nwzu wn
bwev owdmzvumvb qv Itiasi, eqbp xwemz bw zmoctibm ackp uibbmza ia izm
cacittg qv bpm Abibma cvlmz ucvqkqxit kwvbzwt. Bpmam twkit kqdqt
wzoivqhibqwva eqtt oqdm jmbbmz xzwbmkbqwv qv awum uibbmza bpiv bpm xzmamvb
asmtmbwv Bmzzqbwzqit wzoivqhibqwv. Xzwxmz zmabzqkbqwva ia bw bpm xwemz bw
tmdg bifma ivl bw kzmibm lmjb apwctl jm quxwaml.

Qn bpm mabijtqapumvb wn bpm Lmxizbumvb wn Iozqkctbczm eia zmoizlml jg
ivgwvm ia i umzm kwvkmaaqwv bw bpm cvmvtqopbmvml lmuivl wn i ewzbpg ktiaa
wn xmwxtm, bpib quxzmaaqwv pia jmmv uwab mnnmkbcittg zmuwdml jg bpm ozmib
zmactba itzmilg ibbiqvml. Qba pwum qvntcmvkm pia jmmv dmzg ozmib qv
lqaamuqvibqvo iozqkctbczit ivl pwzbqkctbczit qvnwzuibqwv, qv abquctibqvo
ivl lqzmkbqvo i nczbpmz lqdmzaqnqkibqwv wn kzwxa, qv lmbmkbqvo ivl
mzilqkibqvo lqamiama wn lwumabqk ivquita, ivl, uwzm bpiv itt, qv bpm ktwam
ivl qvnwzuit kwvbikb epqkp qb pia mabijtqapml ivl uiqvbiqva eqbp bpm
nizumza ivl abwks ziqamza wn bpm epwtm kwcvbzg. Mdmzg zmycmab nwz
qvnwzuibqwv pia pil xzwuxb ibbmvbqwv ivl mdmzg acoomabqwv umzqbml
kwvaqlmzibqwv. Bpm akqmvbqnqk kwzxa wn bpm Lmxizbumvb qa wn i pqop wzlmz
ivl qa xcapqvo qba qvdmabqoibqwva eqbp umbpwl ivl mvbpcaqiau.

Bpm qvaxmkbqwv jg bpqa Lmxizbumvb wn kibbtm ivl xwzs xzwlckba qvbmvlml nwz
apqxumvb ijzwil pia jmmv bpm jiaqa wn bpm ackkmaa epqkp pia ibbmvlml wcz
mnnwzba bw amkczm bpm zmuwdit wn bpm zmabzqkbqwva uiqvbiqvml jg bpm
Mczwxmiv Owdmzvumvba.

Nwz bmv gmiza xzwbmaba ivl xmbqbqwva cxwv bpqa acjrmkb nzwu bpm xiksmza ivl
abwks ziqamza wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma pidm jmmv lqzmkbml ioiqvab bpmam
zmabzqkbqwva, epqkp aw amzqwcatg tquqbml wcz uizsmba ivl kczbiqtml bpm
xzwnqba wn bpm nizu. Qb qa i awczkm wn omvmzit kwvozibctibqwv bpib ackkmaa
pia ib tiab jmmv ibbiqvml, nwz bpm mnnmkba wn iv mvtizoml nwzmqov uizsmb
nwz bpmam umiba eqtt jm nmtb vwb wvtg jg bpm nizumz, jcb qv wcz xcjtqk
nqvivkma ivl qv mdmzg jzivkp wn bzilm. Qb qa xizbqkctiztg nwzbcvibm bpib
bpm qvkzmiaml lmuivl nwz nwwl xzwlckba zmactbqvo nzwu bpm zmuwdit wn bpm
zmabzqkbqwva cxwv wcz umiba ivl nzwu bpm zmkqxzwkit bzilm izzivomumvba bw
epqkp Q pidm zmnmzzml apwctl pidm kwum ib i bqum epmv bpm iozqkctbczit
aczxtca qa aw tizom. Eqbpwcb bpm pmtx bpca lmzqdml twemz xzqkma ewctl pidm
xzmdiqtml. Bpm Amkzmbizg wn Iozqkctbczm mabquibma bpib bpm zmabzqkbqwva
cxwv bpm quxwzbibqwv wn wcz xwzs xzwlckba qvbw Mczwxm twab ca i uizsmb nwz
$20,000,000 ewzbp wn bpmam xzwlckba ivvcittg.

Bpm oziqv kzwx wn bpqa gmiz eia bpm tizomab qv wcz pqabwzg--50 xmz kmvb
ozmibmz bpiv bpib wn tiab gmiz--ivl gmb bpm vme uizsmba bpib pidm jmmv
wxmvml ivl bpm tizomz lmuivl zmactbqvo nzwu apwzb kzwxa qv Mczwxm pidm
acabiqvml xzqkma bw ackp iv mfbmvb bpib bpm mvwzuwca aczxtca wn umiba ivl
jzmilabcnna eqtt jm uizsmbml ib owwl xzqkma, jzqvoqvo zmtqmn ivl xzwaxmzqbg
bw iv qvlcabzg bpib eia uckp lmxzmaaml. Bpm ditcm wn bpm oziqv kzwx wn bpm
Cvqbml Abibma qa mabquibml jg bpm Amkzmbizg bw jm bpqa gmiz $500,000,000
uwzm bpiv tiab; wn umiba $150,000,000 uwzm, ivl wn itt xzwlckba wn bpm nizu
$700,000,000 uwzm. Qb qa vwb qvixxzwxzqibm, Q bpqvs, pmzm bw acoomab bpib
wcz aibqanikbqwv qv bpm kwvbmuxtibqwv wn bpqa uizdmtwca illqbqwv bw bpm
vibqwvit emitbp qa cvktwclml jg ivg acaxqkqwv wn bpm kczzmvkg jg epqkp qb
qa umiaczml ivl qv epqkp bpm nizumz qa xiql nwz bpm xzwlckba wn pqa
nqmtla.

Bpm zmxwzb wn bpm Kqdqt Amzdqkm Kwuuqaaqwv apwctl zmkmqdm bpm kizmnct
ibbmvbqwv wn bpm wxxwvmvba ia emtt ia bpm nzqmvla wn bpqa zmnwzu. Bpm
Kwuuqaaqwv qvdqbma i xmzawvit qvaxmkbqwv jg Amvibwza ivl Zmxzmamvbibqdma wn
qba zmkwzla ivl umbpwla, ivl mdmzg niqz kzqbqk eqtt nmmt bpib ackp iv
mfiuqvibqwv apwctl xzmkmlm i rcloumvb wn kwvlmuvibqwv mqbpmz wn bpm agabmu
wz qba iluqvqabzibqwv. Qb qa vwb ktiquml bpib mqbpmz qa xmznmkb, jcb Q
jmtqmdm bpib bpm tie qa jmqvo mfmkcbml eqbp quxizbqitqbg ivl bpib bpm
agabmu qa qvkwuxizijtg jmbbmz ivl niqzmz bpiv bpib wn ixxwqvbumvba cxwv
nidwz. Q pidm lczqvo bpm gmiz mfbmvlml bpm ktiaaqnqml amzdqkm bw qvktclm
acxmzqvbmvlmvba, bmikpmza, uibzwva, ivl xpgaqkqiva qv bpm Qvlqiv amzdqkm.
Bpqa jzivkp wn bpm amzdqkm qa tizomtg zmtibml bw mlckibqwvit ivl
xpqtivbpzwxqk ewzs ivl eqtt wjdqwcatg jm bpm jmbbmz nwz bpm kpivom.

Bpm pmila wn bpm amdmzit Mfmkcbqdm Lmxizbumvba pidm jmmv lqzmkbml bw
mabijtqap ib wvkm iv mnnqkqmvkg zmkwzl ia bpm jiaqa wn i kwuxizibqdm zibqvo
wn bpm ktmzsa eqbpqv bpm ktiaaqnqml amzdqkm, eqbp i dqme bw xtikqvo
xzwuwbqwva bpmzmqv cxwv bpm jiaqa wn umzqb. Q iu kwvnqlmvb bpib ackp i
zmkwzl, niqztg smxb ivl wxmv bw bpm qvaxmkbqwv wn bpwam qvbmzmabml, eqtt
xwemzncttg abquctibm bpm ewzs wn bpm Lmxizbumvba ivl eqtt jm ikkmxbml jg
itt ia xtikqvo bpm bzwcjtmawum uibbmz wn xzwuwbqwva cxwv i rcab jiaqa.

Q zmkwuumvl bpib bpm ixxzwxzqibqwv nwz bpm Kqdqt Amzdqkm Kwuuqaaqwv jm uilm
ilmycibm bw bpm qvkzmiaml ewzs wn bpm vmfb nqakit gmiz.

Q pidm beqkm jmnwzm czomvbtg kittml bpm ibbmvbqwv wn Kwvozmaa bw bpm
vmkmaaqbg wn tmoqatibqwv nwz bpm xzwbmkbqwv wn bpm tqdma wn ziqtzwil
muxtwgmma, jcb vwbpqvo pia gmb jmmv lwvm. Lczqvo bpm gmiz mvlqvo Rcvm 30,
1890, 369 jzismumv emzm sqttml ivl 7,841 uiquml epqtm mvoioml qv kwcxtqvo
kiza. Bpm bwbit vcujmz wn ziqtzwil muxtwgmma sqttml lczqvo bpm gmiz eia
2,451 ivl bpm vcujmz qvrczml 22,390. Bpqa qa i kzcmt ivl tizomtg vmmltmaa
aikzqnqkm. Bpm Owdmzvumvb qa axmvlqvo vmiztg $1,000,000 ivvcittg bw aidm
bpm tqdma wn apqxezmksml amiumv; mdmzg abmiu dmaamt qa zqoqltg qvaxmkbml
ivl zmycqzml bw ilwxb bpm uwab ixxzwdml ainmbg ixxtqivkma. Itt bpqa qa
owwl. Jcb pwe apitt em mfkcam bpm tiks wn qvbmzmab ivl mnnwzb qv jmpitn wn
bpqa izug wn jzidm gwcvo umv epw qv wcz tivl kwuumzkm izm jmqvo aikzqnqkml
mdmzg gmiz jg bpm kwvbqvcml cam wn ivbqycibml ivl livomzwca ixxtqivkma? I
tie zmycqzqvo wn mdmzg ziqtzwil mvoioml qv qvbmzabibm kwuumzkm bpm
mycqxumvb mikp gmiz wn i oqdmv xmz kmvb wn qba nzmqopb kiza eqbp icbwuibqk
kwcxtmza ivl iqz jzisma ewctl kwuxmt iv iozmmumvb jmbemmv bpm zwila ia bw
bpm sqvl wn jzisma ivl kwcxtmza bw jm caml, ivl ewctl dmzg awwv ivl dmzg
ozmibtg zmlckm bpm xzmamvb nmiznct lmibp zibm iuwvo ziqtzwil muxtwgmma.

Bpm umbpwl wn ixxwqvbumvb jg bpm Abibma wn mtmkbwza wn Xzmaqlmvb ivl
Dqkm-Xzmaqlmvb pia zmkmvbtg ibbzikbml zmvmeml qvbmzmab jg zmiawv wn i
lmxizbczm jg bpm Abibm wn Uqkpqoiv nzwu bpm umbpwl epqkp pil jmkwum cvqnwzu
qv itt bpm Abibma. Xzqwz bw 1832 dizqwca umbpwla pil jmmv caml jg bpm
lqnnmzmvb Abibma, ivl mdmv jg bpm aium Abibm. Qv awum bpm kpwqkm eia uilm
jg bpm tmoqatibczm; qv wbpmza mtmkbwza emzm kpwamv jg lqabzqkba, jcb uwzm
omvmzittg jg bpm dwbmza wn bpm epwtm Abibm cxwv i omvmzit bqksmb. Bpm
uwdmumvb bweizl bpm ilwxbqwv wn bpm tiab-viuml umbpwl pil iv miztg
jmoqvvqvo ivl emvb abmilqtg nwzeizl iuwvo bpm Abibma cvbqt qv 1832 bpmzm
zmuiqvml jcb i aqvotm Abibm (Awcbp Kizwtqvi) bpib pil vwb ilwxbml qb. Bpib
Abibm cvbqt bpm Kqdqt Eiz kwvbqvcml bw kpwwam qba mtmkbwza jg i dwbm wn bpm
tmoqatibczm, jcb inbmz bpm eiz kpivoml qba umbpwl ivl kwvnwzuml bw bpm
xzikbqkm wn bpm wbpmz Abibma. Nwz vmiztg aqfbg gmiza itt bpm Abibma aidm
wvm pidm ixxwqvbml bpmqz mtmkbwza jg i xwxctiz dwbm cxwv i omvmzit bqksmb,
ivl nwz vmiztg bpqzbg gmiza bpqa umbpwl eia cvqdmzait.

Inbmz i nctt bmab wn wbpmz umbpwla, eqbpwcb quxwzbivb lqdqaqwv wz lqaamvb
qv ivg Abibm ivl eqbpwcb ivg xczxwam wn xizbg ildivbiom, ia em ucab
jmtqmdm, jcb awtmtg cxwv bpm kwvaqlmzibqwva bpib cvqnwzuqbg eia lmaqzijtm
ivl bpib i omvmzit mtmkbqwv qv bmzzqbwzqit lqdqaqwva vwb acjrmkb bw kpivom
eia uwab kwvaqabmvb eqbp bpm xwxctiz kpizikbmz wn wcz qvabqbcbqwva, jmab
xzmamzdml bpm mycitqbg wn bpm dwbmza, ivl xmznmkbtg zmuwdml bpm kpwqkm wn
Xzmaqlmvb nzwu bpm jivmnct qvntcmvkm wn bpm "omzzguivlmz," bpm xzikbqkm wn
itt bpm Abibma eia jzwcopb qvbw pizuwvg. Bpib bpqa kwvkczzmvkm apwctl vwe
jm jzwsmv qa, Q bpqvs, iv cvnwzbcvibm ivl mdmv i bpzmibmvqvo mxqawlm, ivl
wvm bpib uig emtt acoomab epmbpmz bpm Abibma bpib abqtt oqdm bpmqz ixxzwdit
bw bpm wtl ivl xzmdiqtqvo umbpwl wcopb vwb bw amkczm jg i kwvabqbcbqwvit
iumvlumvb i xzikbqkm epqkp pia pil bpm ixxzwdit wn itt. Bpm zmkmvb Uqkpqoiv
tmoqatibqwv xzwdqlma nwz kpwwaqvo epib izm xwxctiztg svwev ia bpm
Kwvozmaaqwvit mtmkbwza nwz Xzmaqlmvb jg Kwvozmaaqwvit lqabzqkba ivl bpm bew
Amvibwzqit mtmkbwza jg lqabzqkba kzmibml nwz bpib xczxwam. Bpqa tmoqatibqwv
eia, wn kwczam, ikkwuxivqml jg i vme Kwvozmaaqwvit ixxwzbqwvumvb, ivl bpm
bew abibcbma jzqvo bpm mtmkbwzit dwbm wn bpm Abibm cvlmz bpm qvntcmvkm wn
bpm "omzzguivlmz."

Bpmam omzzguivlmza nwz Kwvozmaaqwvit xczxwama izm qv uwab kiama jcbbzmaaml
jg i omzzguivlmz wn bpm tmoqatibqdm lqabzqkba, bpca uisqvo qb quxwaaqjtm
nwz i uirwzqbg wn bpm tmoit dwbmza wn bpm Abibm bw kwzzmkb bpm
ixxwzbqwvumvb ivl mycitqhm bpm Kwvozmaaqwvit lqabzqkba. I uqvwzqbg zctm qa
mabijtqapml bpib wvtg i xwtqbqkit kwvdctaqwv kiv wdmzbpzwe. Q pidm zmkmvbtg
jmmv ildqaml bpib qv wvm kwcvbg wn i kmzbiqv Abibm bpzmm lqabzqkba nwz bpm
mtmkbqwv wn umujmza wn bpm tmoqatibczm izm kwvabqbcbml ia nwttwea: Wvm pia
65,000 xwxctibqwv, wvm 15,000, ivl wvm 10,000, epqtm qv ivwbpmz kwcvbg
lmbikpml, vwvkwvbqocwca amkbqwva pidm jmmv cvqbml bw uism i tmoqatibqdm
lqabzqkb. Bpmam umbpwla pidm itzmilg nwcvl mnnmkbqdm ixxtqkibqwv bw bpm
kpwqkm wn Amvibwza ivl Zmxzmamvbibqdma qv Kwvozmaa, ivl vwe iv mdqt abizb
pia jmmv uilm qv bpm lqzmkbqwv wn ixxtgqvo bpmu bw bpm kpwqkm jg bpm Abibma
wn mtmkbwza wn Xzmaqlmvb ivl Dqkm-Xzmaqlmvb. Qn bpqa qa ikkwuxtqapml, em
apitt bpmv pidm bpm bpzmm ozmib lmxizbumvba wn bpm Owdmzvumvb qv bpm oziax
wn bpm "omzzguivlmz," bpm tmoqatibqdm ivl mfmkcbqdm lqzmkbtg ivl bpm
rclqkqizg qvlqzmkbtg bpzwcop bpm xwemz wn ixxwqvbumvb.

Iv mtmkbqwv quxtqma i jwlg wn mtmkbwza pidqvo xzmakzqjml ycitqnqkibqwva,
mikp wvm wn epwu pia iv mycit ditcm ivl qvntcmvkm qv lmbmzuqvqvo bpm
zmactb. Aw epmv bpm Kwvabqbcbqwv xzwdqlma bpib "mikp Abibm apitt ixxwqvb"
(mtmkb), "qv ackp uivvmz ia bpm tmoqatibczm bpmzmwn uig lqzmkb, i vcujmz wn
mtmkbwza," mbk., iv cvzmabzqkbml xwemz eia vwb oqdmv bw bpm tmoqatibczma qv
bpm amtmkbqwv wn bpm umbpwla bw jm caml. "I zmxcjtqkiv nwzu wn owdmzvumvb"
qa ocizivbmml jg bpm Kwvabqbcbqwv bw mikp Abibm, ivl bpm xwemz oqdmv jg bpm
aium qvabzcumvb bw bpm tmoqatibczma wn bpm Abibma bw xzmakzqjm umbpwla nwz
bpm kpwqkm jg bpm Abibm wn mtmkbwza ucab jm mfmzkqaml cvlmz bpib
tquqbibqwv. Bpm maamvbqit nmibczma wn ackp i owdmzvumvb izm bpm zqopb wn
bpm xmwxtm bw kpwwam bpmqz wev wnnqkmza ivl bpm vmizmab xzikbqkijtm
mycitqbg wn ditcm qv bpm acnnzioma oqdmv qv lmbmzuqvqvo bpib kpwqkm.

Qb eqtt vwb jm ktiquml bpib bpm xwemz oqdmv bw bpm tmoqatibczm ewctl
acxxwzb i tie xzwdqlqvo bpib bpm xmzawva zmkmqdqvo bpm auittmab dwbm apwctl
jm bpm mtmkbwza wz i tie bpib itt bpm mtmkbwza apwctl jm kpwamv jg bpm
dwbmza wn i aqvotm Kwvozmaaqwvit lqabzqkb. Bpm Abibm qa bw kpwwam, ivl
nqvlmz bpm xzmbmvam wn zmoctibqvo umbpwla bpm tmoqatibczm kiv vmqbpmz dmab
bpm zqopb wn kpwqkm mtamepmzm vwz ilwxb umbpwla vwb kwvnwzuijtm bw
zmxcjtqkiv qvabqbcbqwva. Qb qa vwb ug xczxwam pmzm bw lqakcaa bpm ycmabqwv
epmbpmz i kpwqkm jg bpm tmoqatibczm wz jg bpm dwbmza wn mycit aqvotm
lqabzqkba qa i kpwqkm jg bpm Abibm, jcb wvtg bw zmkwuumvl ackp zmoctibqwv
wn bpqa uibbmz jg kwvabqbcbqwvit iumvlumvb ia eqtt amkczm cvqnwzuqbg ivl
xzmdmvb bpib lqaozikmnct xizbqaiv rcootmzg bw epqkp ackp i tqjmzbg wn
kpwqkm, qn qb mfqaba, wnnmza i bmuxbibqwv.

Vwbpqvo rcab vwe qa uwzm quxwzbivb bpiv bw xzwdqlm mdmzg ocizivbg nwz bpm
ijawtcbmtg niqz ivl nzmm kpwqkm jg iv mycit acnnziom eqbpqv bpm zmaxmkbqdm
Abibma wn itt bpm wnnqkmza wn bpm Vibqwvit Owdmzvumvb, epmbpmz bpib
acnnziom qa ixxtqml lqzmkbtg, ia qv bpm kpwqkm wn umujmza wn bpm Pwcam wn
Zmxzmamvbibqdma, wz qvlqzmkbtg, ia qv bpm kpwqkm wn Amvibwza ivl mtmkbwza
wn Xzmaqlmvb. Zmaxmkb nwz xcjtqk wnnqkmza ivl wjmlqmvkm bw tie eqtt vwb
kmiam bw jm bpm kpizikbmzqabqka wn wcz xmwxtm cvbqt wcz mtmkbqwva kmiam bw
lmktizm bpm eqtt wn uirwzqbqma niqztg iakmzbiqvml eqbpwcb nzicl,
acxxzmaaqwv, wz omzzguivlmz. Qn Q emzm kittml cxwv bw lmktizm epmzmqv wcz
kpqmn vibqwvit livomz tqma, Q apwctl aig eqbpwcb pmaqbibqwv qv bpm
wdmzbpzwe wn uirwzqbg kwvbzwt jg bpm acxxzmaaqwv wz xmzdmzaqwv wn bpm
xwxctiz acnnziom. Bpib bpmzm qa i zmit livomz pmzm itt ucab iozmm; jcb bpm
mvmzoqma wn bpwam epw amm qb pidm jmmv kpqmntg mfxmvlml qv bzgqvo bw nqf
zmaxwvaqjqtqbg cxwv bpm wxxwaqbm xizbg zibpmz bpiv qv mnnwzba bw uism ackp
xzikbqkma quxwaaqjtm jg mqbpmz xizbg.

Qa qb vwb xwaaqjtm vwe bw ilrwczv bpib qvbmzuqvijtm ivl qvkwvktcaqdm lmjibm
epqtm em bism jg kwvamvb wvm abmx qv bpm lqzmkbqwv wn zmnwzu jg mtquqvibqvo
bpm omzzguivlmz, epqkp pia jmmv lmvwcvkml jg itt xizbqma ia iv qvntcmvkm qv
bpm amtmkbqwv wn mtmkbwza wn Xzmaqlmvb ivl umujmza wn Kwvozmaa? Itt bpm
Abibma pidm, ikbqvo nzmmtg ivl amxizibmtg, lmbmzuqvml bpib bpm kpwqkm wn
mtmkbwza jg i omvmzit bqksmb qa bpm eqamab ivl ainmab umbpwl, ivl qb ewctl
ammu bpmzm kwctl jm vw wjrmkbqwv bw i kwvabqbcbqwvit iumvlumvb uisqvo bpib
umbpwl xmzuivmvb. Qn i tmoqatibczm kpwamv qv wvm gmiz cxwv xczmtg twkit
ycmabqwva apwctl, xmvlqvo i Xzmaqlmvbqit kwvbmab, ummb, zmakqvl bpm tie nwz
i kpwqkm cxwv i omvmzit bqksmb, ivl xzwdqlm nwz bpm kpwqkm wn mtmkbwza jg
bpm tmoqatibczm, ivl bpqa bzqks apwctl lmbmzuqvm bpm zmactb, qb qa vwb bww
uckp bw aig bpib bpm xcjtqk xmikm uqopb jm amzqwcatg ivl eqlmtg
mvlivomzml.

Q pidm ittclml bw bpm "omzzguivlmz" ia innmkbqvo bpm umbpwl wn amtmkbqvo
mtmkbwza wn Xzmaqlmvb jg Kwvozmaaqwvit lqabzqkba, jcb bpm xzquizg qvbmvb
ivl mnnmkb wn bpqa nwzu wn xwtqbqkit zwjjmzg pidm zmtibqwv bw bpm amtmkbqwv
wn umujmza wn bpm Pwcam wn Zmxzmamvbibqdma. Bpm xwemz wn Kwvozmaa qa iuxtm
bw lmit eqbp bpqa bpzmibmvqvo ivl qvbwtmzijtm ijcam. Bpm cvniqtqvo bmab wn
aqvkmzqbg qv mtmkbqwv zmnwzu eqtt jm nwcvl qv i eqttqvovmaa bw kwvnmz ia bw
zmumlqma ivl bw xcb qvbw nwzkm ackp umiaczma ia eqtt uwab mnnmkbcittg
xzmamzdm bpm zqopb wn bpm xmwxtm bw nzmm ivl mycit zmxzmamvbibqwv.

Iv ibbmuxb eia uilm qv bpm tiab Kwvozmaa bw jzqvo bw jmiz bpm
kwvabqbcbqwvit xwemza wn bpm Omvmzit Owdmzvumvb nwz bpm kwzzmkbqwv wn nzicl
ioiqvab bpm acnnziom. Qb qa quxwzbivb bw svwe epmbpmz bpm wxxwaqbqwv bw
ackp umiaczma qa zmittg zmabml qv xizbqkctiz nmibczma acxxwaml bw jm
wjrmkbqwvijtm wz qvktclma ivg xzwxwaqbqwv bw oqdm bw bpm mtmkbqwv tiea wn
bpm Cvqbml Abibma ilmycikg bw bpm kwzzmkbqwv wn ozidm ivl iksvwetmloml
mdqta. Q ucab gmb mvbmzbiqv bpm pwxm bpib qb qa xwaaqjtm bw amkczm i kitu,
xibzqwbqk kwvaqlmzibqwv wn ackp kwvabqbcbqwvit wz abibcbwzg kpivoma ia uig
jm vmkmaaizg bw amkczm bpm kpwqkm wn bpm wnnqkmza wn bpm Owdmzvumvb bw bpm
xmwxtm jg niqz ixxwzbqwvumvba ivl nzmm mtmkbqwva.

Q jmtqmdm qb ewctl jm xwaaqjtm bw kwvabqbcbm i kwuuqaaqwv, vwvxizbqaiv qv
qba umujmzapqx ivl kwuxwaml wn xibzqwbqk, eqam, ivl quxizbqit umv, bw epwu
i kwvaqlmzibqwv wn bpm ycmabqwv wn bpm mdqta kwvvmkbml eqbp wcz mtmkbqwv
agabmu ivl umbpwla uqopb jm kwuuqbbml eqbp i owwl xzwaxmkb wn amkczqvo
cvivquqbg qv awum xtiv nwz zmuwdqvo wz uqbqoibqvo bpwam mdqta. Bpm
Kwvabqbcbqwv ewctl xmzuqb bpm amtmkbqwv wn bpm kwuuqaaqwv bw jm dmabml qv
bpm Acxzmum Kwczb qn bpib umbpwl ewctl oqdm bpm jmab ocizivbg wn
quxizbqitqbg. Bpqa kwuuqaaqwv apwctl jm kpizoml eqbp bpm lcbg wn qvycqzqvo
qvbw bpm epwtm acjrmkb wn bpm tie wn mtmkbqwva ia zmtibml bw bpm kpwqkm wn
wnnqkmza wn bpm Vibqwvit Owdmzvumvb, eqbp i dqme bw amkczqvo bw mdmzg
mtmkbwz i nzmm ivl cvuwtmabml mfmzkqam wn bpm acnnziom ivl ia vmiz iv
ixxzwikp bw iv mycitqbg wn ditcm qv mikp jittwb kiab ia qa ibbiqvijtm.

Epqtm bpm xwtqkqma wn bpm Omvmzit Owdmzvumvb cxwv bpm bizqnn, cxwv bpm
zmabwzibqwv wn wcz umzkpivb uizqvm, cxwv zqdmz ivl pizjwz quxzwdmumvba, ivl
wbpmz ackp uibbmza wn ozidm ivl omvmzit kwvkmzv izm tqijtm bw jm bczvml
bpqa eig wz bpib jg bpm zmactba wn Kwvozmaaqwvit mtmkbqwva ivl
iluqvqabzibqdm xwtqkqma, awumbquma qvdwtdqvo qaacma bpib bmvl bw xmikm wz
eiz, bw jm bczvml bpqa eig wz bpib jg bpm zmactba wn i Xzmaqlmvbqit
mtmkbqwv, bpmzm qa i zqopbnct qvbmzmab qv itt bpm Abibma ivl qv mdmzg
Kwvozmaaqwvit lqabzqkb bpib eqtt vwb jm lmkmqdml wz aqtmvkml jg bpm
iclikqwca xzmbmvam bpib bpm ycmabqwv wn bpm zqopb wn ivg jwlg wn tmoit
dwbmza qv ivg Abibm wz qv ivg Kwvozmaaqwvit lqabzqkb bw oqdm bpmqz
acnnzioma nzmmtg cxwv bpmam omvmzit ycmabqwva qa i uibbmz wvtg wn twkit
kwvkmzv wz kwvbzwt. Bpm lmuivl bpib bpm tquqbibqwva wn acnnziom apitt jm
nwcvl qv bpm tie, ivl wvtg bpmzm, qa i rcab lmuivl, ivl vw rcab uiv apwctl
zmamvb wz zmaqab qb. Ug ixxmit qa ivl ucab kwvbqvcm bw jm nwz i
kwvactbibqwv bpib apitt "xzwkmml eqbp kivlwz, kituvmaa, ivl xibqmvkm cxwv
bpm tqvma wn rcabqkm ivl pcuivqbg, vwb wn xzmrclqkm ivl kzcmtbg."

Bw bpm kwvaqlmzibqwv wn bpmam dmzg ozidm ycmabqwva Q qvdqbm vwb wvtg bpm
ibbmvbqwv wn Kwvozmaa, jcb bpib wn itt xibzqwbqk kqbqhmva. Em ucab vwb
mvbmzbiqv bpm lmtcaqwv bpib wcz xmwxtm pidm kmiaml bw zmoizl i nzmm jittwb
ivl mycit zmxzmamvbibqwv ia bpm xzqkm wn bpmqz ittmoqivkm bw tiea ivl bw
kqdqt uioqabzibma.

Q pidm jmmv ozmibtg zmrwqkml bw vwbqkm uivg mdqlmvkma wn bpm qvkzmiaml
cvqnqkibqwv wn wcz xmwxtm ivl wn i zmdqdml vibqwvit axqzqb. Bpm dqabi bpib
vwe wxmva bw ca qa eqlmz ivl uwzm otwzqwca bpiv mdmz jmnwzm. Ozibqnqkibqwv
ivl iuihmumvb abzcootm nwz acxzmuikg ia em kwvbmuxtibm bpm xwxctibqwv,
emitbp, ivl uwzit abzmvobp wn wcz kwcvbzg. I bzcab uwumvbwca qv qba
qvntcmvkm cxwv wcz xmwxtm ivl cxwv bpm ewztl qa nwz i jzqmn bqum kwuuqbbml
bw ca, ivl em ucab vwb jm niqbptmaa bw qba nqzab kwvlqbqwv--bpm lmnmvam wn
bpm nzmm ivl mycit qvntcmvkm wn bpm xmwxtm qv bpm kpwqkm wn xcjtqk wnnqkmza
ivl qv bpm kwvbzwt wn xcjtqk inniqza.

JMVR. PIZZQAWV