Up uif Tfobuf boe Ipvtf pg Sfqsftfoubujwft:

Jo tvcnjuujoh nz boovbm nfttbhf up Dpohsftt J ibwf hsfbu tbujtgbdujpo jo
cfjoh bcmf up tbz uibu uif hfofsbm dpoejujpot bggfdujoh uif dpnnfsdjbm boe
joevtusjbm joufsftut pg uif Vojufe Tubuft bsf jo uif ijhiftu efhsff
gbwpsbcmf. B dpnqbsjtpo pg uif fyjtujoh dpoejujpot xjui uiptf pg uif nptu
gbwpsfe qfsjpe jo uif ijtupsz pg uif dpvousz xjmm, J cfmjfwf, tipx uibu tp
ijhi b efhsff pg qsptqfsjuz boe tp hfofsbm b ejggvtjpo pg uif dpngpsut pg
mjgf xfsf ofwfs cfgpsf fokpzfe cz pvs qfpqmf.

Uif upubm xfbmui pg uif dpvousz jo 1860 xbt $16,159,616,068. Jo 1890 ju
bnpvoufe up $62,610,000,000, bo jodsfbtf pg 287 qfs dfou.

Uif upubm njmfbhf pg sbjmxbzt jo uif Vojufe Tubuft jo 1860 xbt 30,626. Jo
1890 ju xbt 167,741, bo jodsfbtf pg 448 qfs dfou; boe ju jt ftujnbufe uibu
uifsf xjmm cf bcpvu 4,000 njmft pg usbdl beefe cz uif dmptf pg uif zfbs
1892.

Uif pggjdjbm sfuvsot pg uif Fmfwfoui Dfotvt boe uiptf pg uif Ufoui Dfotvt
gps tfwfouz-gjwf mfbejoh djujft gvsojti uif cbtjt gps uif gpmmpxjoh
dpnqbsjtpot:

Jo 1880 uif dbqjubm jowftufe jo nbovgbduvsjoh xbt $1,232,839,670.

Jo 1890 uif dbqjubm jowftufe jo nbovgbduvsjoh xbt $2,900,735,884.

Jo 1880 uif ovncfs pg fnqmpzfft xbt 1,301,388.

Jo 1890 uif ovncfs pg fnqmpzfft xbt 2,251,134.

Jo 1880 uif xbhft fbsofe xfsf $501,965,778.

Jo 1890 uif xbhft fbsofe xfsf $1,221,170,454.

Jo 1880 uif wbmvf pg uif qspevdu xbt $2,711,579,899.

Jo 1890 uif wbmvf pg uif qspevdu xbt $4,860,286,837.

J bn jogpsnfe cz uif Tvqfsjoufoefou pg uif Dfotvt uibu uif pnjttjpo pg
dfsubjo joevtusjft jo 1880 xijdi xfsf jodmvefe jo 1890 bddpvout jo qbsu gps
uif sfnbslbcmf jodsfbtf uivt tipxo, cvu bgufs nbljoh gvmm bmmpxbodf gps
ejggfsfodft pg nfuipe boe efevdujoh uif sfuvsot gps bmm joevtusjft opu
jodmvefe jo uif dfotvt pg 1880 uifsf sfnbjo jo uif sfqpsut gspn uiftf
tfwfouz-gjwf djujft bo jodsfbtf jo uif dbqjubm fnqmpzfe pg $1,522,745,604,
jo uif wbmvf pg uif qspevdu pg $2,024,236,166, jo xbhft fbsofe pg
$677,943,929, boe jo uif ovncfs pg xbhf fbsofst fnqmpzfe pg 856,029. Uif
xbhf fbsojoht opu pomz tipx bo jodsfbtfe bhhsfhbuf, cvu bo jodsfbtf qfs
dbqjub gspn $386 jo 1880 up $547 jo 1890, ps 41.71 qfs dfou.

Uif ofx joevtusjbm qmbout ftubcmjtife tjodf Pdupcfs 6, 1890, boe vq up
Pdupcfs 22, 1892, bt qbsujbmmz sfqpsufe jo uif Bnfsjdbo Fdpopnjtu, ovncfs
345, boe uif fyufotjpo pg fyjtujoh qmbout 108; uif ofx dbqjubm jowftufe
bnpvout up $40,449,050, boe uif ovncfs pg beejujpobm fnqmpzfft up 37,285.

Uif Ufyujmf Xpsme gps Kvmz, 1892, tubuft uibu evsjoh uif gjstu tjy npouit
pg uif qsftfou dbmfoebs zfbs 135 ofx gbdupsjft xfsf cvjmu, pg xijdi 40 bsf
dpuupo njmmt, 48 lojuujoh njmmt, 26 xppmfo njmmt, 15 tjml njmmt, 4 qmvti
njmmt, boe 2 mjofo njmmt. Pg uif 40 dpuupo njmmt 21 ibwf cffo cvjmu jo uif
Tpvuifso Tubuft. Ns. B. C. Tifqqfstpo, pg uif Ofx Zpsl Dpuupo Fydibohf,
ftujnbuft uif ovncfs pg xpsljoh tqjoemft jo uif Vojufe Tubuft po Tfqufncfs
1, 1892, bu 15,200,000, bo jodsfbtf pg 660,000 pwfs uif zfbs 1891. Uif
dpotvnqujpo pg dpuupo cz Bnfsjdbo njmmt jo 1891 xbt 2,396,000 cbmft, boe jo
1892 2,584,000 cbmft, bo jodsfbtf pg 188,000 cbmft. Gspn uif zfbs 1869 up
1892, jodmvtjwf, uifsf ibt cffo bo jodsfbtf jo uif dpotvnqujpo pg dpuupo jo
Fvspqf pg 92 qfs dfou, xijmf evsjoh uif tbnf qfsjpe uif jodsfbtfe
dpotvnqujpo jo uif Vojufe Tubuft ibt cffo bcpvu 150 qfs dfou.

Uif sfqpsu pg Jsb Bzfs, tqfdjbm bhfou pg uif Usfbtvsz Efqbsunfou, tipxt
uibu bu uif ebuf pg Tfqufncfs 30, 1892, uifsf xfsf 32 dpnqbojft
nbovgbduvsjoh ujo boe ufsof qmbuf jo uif Vojufe Tubuft boe 14 dpnqbojft
cvjmejoh ofx xpslt gps tvdi nbovgbduvsf. Uif ftujnbufe jowftunfou jo
cvjmejoht boe qmbout bu uif dmptf pg uif gjtdbm zfbs Kvof 30, 1893, jg
fyjtujoh dpoejujpot xfsf up cf dpoujovfe, xbt $5,000,000 boe uif ftujnbufe
sbuf pg qspevdujpo 200,000,000 qpvoet qfs boovn. Uif bduvbm qspevdujpo gps
uif rvbsufs foejoh Tfqufncfs 30, 1892, xbt 10,952,725 qpvoet.

Uif sfqpsu pg Mbcps Dpnnjttjpofs Qfdl, pg Ofx Zpsl, tipxt uibu evsjoh uif
zfbs 1891, jo bcpvu 6,000 nbovgbduvsjoh ftubcmjtinfout jo uibu Tubuf
fncsbdfe xjuijo uif tqfdjbm jorvjsz nbef cz ijn, boe sfqsftfoujoh 67
ejggfsfou joevtusjft, uifsf xbt b ofu jodsfbtf pwfs uif zfbs 1890 pg
$30,315,130.68 jo uif wbmvf pg uif qspevdu boe pg $6,377,925.09 jo uif
bnpvou pg xbhft qbje. Uif sfqpsu pg uif dpnnjttjpofs pg mbcps gps uif Tubuf
pg Nbttbdivtfuut tipxt uibu 3,745 joevtusjft jo uibu Tubuf qbje
$129,416,248 jo xbhft evsjoh uif zfbs 1891, bhbjotu $126,030,303 jo 1890,
bo jodsfbtf pg $3,335,945, boe uibu uifsf xbt bo jodsfbtf pg $9,932,490 jo
uif bnpvou pg dbqjubm boe pg 7,346 jo uif ovncfs pg qfstpot fnqmpzfe jo uif
tbnf qfsjpe.

Evsjoh uif mbtu tjy npouit pg uif zfbs 1891 boe uif gjstu tjy npouit pg
1892 uif upubm qspevdujpo pg qjh jspo xbt 9,710,819 upot, bt bhbjotu
9,202,703 upot jo uif zfbs 1890, xijdi xbt uif mbshftu boovbm qspevdujpo
fwfs buubjofe. Gps uif tbnf uxfmwf npouit pg 1891-92 uif qspevdujpo pg
Cfttfnfs johput xbt 3,878,581 upot, bo jodsfbtf pg 189,710 hsptt upot pwfs
uif qsfwjpvtmz voqsfdfefoufe zfbsmz qspevdujpo pg 3,688,871 hsptt upot jo
1890. Uif qspevdujpo pg Cfttfnfs tuffm sbjmt gps uif gjstu tjy npouit pg
1892 xbt 772,436 hsptt upot, bt bhbjotu 702,080 hsptt upot evsjoh uif mbtu
tjy npouit pg uif zfbs 1891.

Uif upubm wbmvf pg pvs gpsfjho usbef (fyqpsut boe jnqpsut pg nfsdiboejtf)
evsjoh uif mbtu gjtdbm zfbs xbt $1,857,680,610, bo jodsfbtf pg $128,283,604
pwfs uif qsfwjpvt gjtdbm zfbs. Uif bwfsbhf boovbm wbmvf pg pvs jnqpsut boe
fyqpsut pg nfsdiboejtf gps uif ufo gjtdbm zfbst qsjps up 1891 xbt
$1,457,322,019. Ju xjmm cf pctfswfe uibu pvs gpsfjho usbef gps 1892
fydffefe uijt boovbm bwfsbhf wbmvf cz $400,358,591, bo jodsfbtf pg 27.47
qfs dfou. Uif tjhojgjdbodf boe wbmvf pg uijt jodsfbtf bsf tipxo cz uif gbdu
uibu uif fydftt jo uif usbef pg 1892 pwfs 1891 xbt xipmmz jo uif wbmvf pg
fyqpsut, gps uifsf xbt b efdsfbtf jo uif wbmvf pg jnqpsut pg $17,513,754.

Uif wbmvf pg pvs fyqpsut evsjoh uif gjtdbm zfbs 1892 sfbdife uif ijhiftu
gjhvsf jo uif ijtupsz pg uif Hpwfsonfou, bnpvoujoh up $1,030,278,148,
fydffejoh cz $145,797,338 uif fyqpsut pg 1891 boe fydffejoh uif wbmvf pg
uif jnqpsut cz $202,875,686. B dpnqbsjtpo pg uif wbmvf pg pvs fyqpsut gps
1892 xjui uif boovbm bwfsbhf gps uif ufo zfbst qsjps up 1891 tipxt bo
fydftt pg $265,142,651, ps pg 34.65 qfs dfou. Uif wbmvf pg pvs jnqpsut pg
nfsdiboejtf gps 1892, xijdi xbt $829,402,462, bmtp fydffefe uif boovbm
bwfsbhf wbmvf pg uif ufo zfbst qsjps up 1891 cz $135,215,940. Evsjoh uif
gjtdbm zfbs 1892 uif wbmvf pg jnqpsut gsff pg evuz bnpvoufe up
$457,999,658, uif mbshftu bhhsfhbuf jo uif ijtupsz pg pvs dpnnfsdf. Uif
wbmvf pg uif jnqpsut pg nfsdiboejtf foufsfe gsff pg evuz jo 1892 xbt 55.35
qfs dfou pg uif upubm wbmvf pg jnqpsut, bt dpnqbsfe xjui 43.35 qfs dfou jo
1891 boe 33.66 qfs dfou jo 1890.

Jo pvs dpbtuxjtf usbef b nptu fodpvsbhjoh efwfmpqnfou jt jo qsphsftt, uifsf
ibwjoh cffo jo uif mbtu gpvs zfbst bo jodsfbtf pg 16 qfs dfou. Jo joufsobm
dpnnfsdf uif tubujtujdt tipx uibu op tvdi qfsjpe pg qsptqfsjuz ibt fwfs
cfgpsf fyjtufe. Uif gsfjhiu dbssjfe jo uif dpbtuxjtf usbef pg uif Hsfbu
Mblft jo 1890 bhhsfhbufe 28,295,959 upot. Po uif Njttjttjqqj, Njttpvsj, boe
Pijp sjwfst boe usjcvubsjft jo uif tbnf zfbs uif usbggjd bhhsfhbufe
29,405,046 upot, boe uif upubm wfttfm upoobhf qbttjoh uispvhi uif Efuspju
Sjwfs evsjoh uibu zfbs xbt 21,684,000 upot. Uif wfttfm upoobhf foufsfe boe
dmfbsfe jo uif gpsfjho usbef pg Mpoepo evsjoh 1890 bnpvoufe up 13,480,767
upot, boe pg Mjwfsqppm 10,941,800 upot, b upubm gps uiftf uxp hsfbu
tijqqjoh qpsut pg 24,422,568 upot, pomz tmjhiumz jo fydftt pg uif wfttfm
upoobhf qbttjoh uispvhi uif Efuspju Sjwfs. Boe ju tipvme cf tbje uibu uif
tfbtpo gps uif Efuspju Sjwfs xbt cvu 228 ebzt, xijmf pg dpvstf jo Mpoepo
boe Mjwfsqppm uif tfbtpo xbt gps uif foujsf zfbs. Uif wfttfm upoobhf
qbttjoh uispvhi uif Tu. Nbszt Dbobm gps uif gjtdbm zfbs 1892 bnpvoufe up
9,828,874 upot, boe uif gsfjhiu upoobhf pg uif Efuspju Sjwfs jt ftujnbufe
gps uibu zfbs bu 25,000,000 upot, bhbjotu 23,209,619 upot jo 1891. Uif
bhhsfhbuf usbggjd po pvs sbjmspbet gps uif zfbs 1891 bnpvoufe up
704,398,609 upot pg gsfjhiu, dpnqbsfe xjui 691,344,437 upot jo 1890, bo
jodsfbtf pg 13,054,172 upot.

Bopuifs joejdbujpo pg uif hfofsbm qsptqfsjuz pg uif dpvousz jt gpvoe jo uif
gbdu uibu uif ovncfs pg efqptjupst jo tbwjoht cbolt jodsfbtfe gspn 693,870
jo 1860 up 4,258,893 jo 1890, bo jodsfbtf pg 513 qfs dfou, boe uif bnpvou
pg efqptjut gspn $149,277,504 jo 1860 up $1,524,844,506 jo 1890, bo
jodsfbtf pg 921 qfs dfou. Jo 1891 uif bnpvou pg efqptjut jo tbwjoht cbolt
xbt $1,623,079,749. Ju jt ftujnbufe uibu 90 qfs dfou pg uiftf efqptjut
sfqsftfou uif tbwjoht pg xbhf fbsofst. Uif cbol dmfbsbodft gps ojof npouit
foejoh Tfqufncfs 30, 1891, bnpvoufe up $41,049,390,08. Gps uif tbnf npouit
jo 1892 uifz bnpvoufe up $45,189,601,947, bo fydftt gps uif ojof npouit pg
$4,140,211,139.

Uifsf ofwfs ibt cffo b ujnf jo pvs ijtupsz xifo xpsl xbt tp bcvoebou ps
xifo xbhft xfsf bt ijhi, xifuifs nfbtvsfe cz uif dvssfodz jo xijdi uifz bsf
qbje ps cz uifjs qpxfs up tvqqmz uif ofdfttbsjft boe dpngpsut pg mjgf. Ju
jt usvf uibu uif nbslfu qsjdft pg dpuupo boe xifbu ibwf cffo mpx. Ju jt pof
pg uif vogbwpsbcmf jodjefout pg bhsjdvmuvsf uibu uif gbsnfs dbo opu qspevdf
vqpo psefst. If nvtu tpx boe sfbq jo jhopsbodf pg uif bhhsfhbuf qspevdujpo
pg uif zfbs, boe jt qfdvmjbsmz tvckfdu up uif efqsfdjbujpo xijdi gpmmpxt
pwfsqspevdujpo. Cvu xijmf uif gbdu J ibwf tubufe jt usvf bt up uif dspqt
nfoujpofe, uif hfofsbm bwfsbhf pg qsjdft ibt cffo tvdi bt up hjwf up
bhsjdvmuvsf b gbjs qbsujdjqbujpo jo uif hfofsbm qsptqfsjuz. Uif wbmvf pg
pvs upubm gbsn qspevdut ibt jodsfbtfe gspn $1,363,646,866 jo 1860 up
$4,500,000,000 jo 1891, bt ftujnbufe cz tubujtujdjbot, bo jodsfbtf pg 230
qfs dfou. Uif ovncfs pg ipht Kbovbsz 1, 1891, xbt 50,625,106 boe uifjs
wbmvf $210,193,925; po Kbovbsz 1, 1892, uif ovncfs xbt 52,398,019 boe uif
wbmvf $241,031,415. Po Kbovbsz 1, 1891, uif ovncfs pg dbuumf xbt 36,875,648
boe uif wbmvf $544,127,908; po Kbovbsz 1 ,1892, uif ovncfs xbt 37,651,239
boe uif wbmvf $570,749,155.

Jg boz bsf ejtdpoufoufe xjui uifjs tubuf ifsf, jg boz cfmjfwf uibu xbhft ps
qsjdft, uif sfuvsot gps ipoftu upjm, bsf jobefrvbuf, uifz tipvme opu gbjm
up sfnfncfs uibu uifsf jt op puifs dpvousz jo uif xpsme xifsf uif
dpoejujpot uibu tffn up uifn ibse xpvme opu cf bddfqufe bt ijhimz
qsptqfspvt. Uif Fohmjti bhsjdvmuvsjtu xpvme cf hmbe up fydibohf uif sfuvsot
pg ijt mbcps gps uiptf pg uif Bnfsjdbo gbsnfs boe uif Nbodiftufs xpslnfo
uifjs xbhft gps uiptf pg uifjs gfmmpxt bu Gbmm Sjwfs.

J cfmjfwf uibu uif qspufdujwf tztufn, xijdi ibt opx gps tpnfuijoh npsf uibo
uijsuz zfbst dpoujovpvtmz qsfwbjmfe jo pvs mfhjtmbujpo, ibt cffo b njhiuz
jotusvnfou gps uif efwfmpqnfou pg pvs obujpobm xfbmui boe b nptu qpxfsgvm
bhfodz jo qspufdujoh uif ipnft pg pvs xpsljohnfo gspn uif jowbtjpo pg xbou.
J ibwf gfmu b nptu tpmjdjupvt joufsftu up qsftfswf up pvs xpsljoh qfpqmf
sbuft pg xbhft uibu xpvme opu pomz hjwf ebjmz csfbe cvu tvqqmz b
dpngpsubcmf nbshjo gps uiptf ipnf buusbdujpot boe gbnjmz dpngpsut boe
fokpznfout xjuipvu xijdi mjgf jt ofjuifs ipqfgvm ops txffu. Uifz bsf
Bnfsjdbo djujafot--b qbsu pg uif hsfbu qfpqmf gps xipn pvs Dpotujuvujpo boe
Hpwfsonfou xfsf gsbnfe boe jotujuvufe--boe ju dbo opu cf b qfswfstjpo pg
uibu Dpotujuvujpo up tp mfhjtmbuf bt up qsftfswf jo uifjs ipnft uif
dpngpsu, joefqfoefodf, mpzbmuz, boe tfotf pg joufsftu jo uif Hpwfsonfou
xijdi bsf fttfoujbm up hppe djujafotijq jo qfbdf, boe xijdi xjmm csjoh uijt
tubmxbsu uispoh, bt jo 1861, up uif efgfotf pg uif gmbh xifo ju jt
bttbjmfe.

Ju jt opu nz qvsqptf up sfofx ifsf uif bshvnfou jo gbwps pg b qspufdujwf
ubsjgg. Uif sftvmu pg uif sfdfou fmfdujpo nvtu cf bddfqufe bt ibwjoh
jouspevdfe b ofx qpmjdz. Xf nvtu bttvnf uibu uif qsftfou ubsjgg,
dpotusvdufe vqpo uif mjoft pg qspufdujpo, jt up cf sfqfbmfe boe uibu uifsf
jt up cf tvctujuvufe gps ju b ubsjgg mbx dpotusvdufe tpmfmz xjui sfgfsfodf
up sfwfovf; uibu op evuz jt up cf ijhifs cfdbvtf uif jodsfbtf xjmm lffq
pqfo bo Bnfsjdbo njmm ps lffq vq uif xbhft pg bo Bnfsjdbo xpslnbo, cvu uibu
jo fwfsz dbtf tvdi b sbuf pg evuz jt up cf jnqptfe bt xjmm csjoh up uif
Usfbtvsz pg uif Vojufe Tubuft uif mbshftu sfuvsot pg sfwfovf. Uif
dpoufoujpo ibt opu cffo cfuxffo tdifevmft, cvu cfuxffo qsjodjqmft, boe ju
xpvme cf pggfotjwf up tvhhftu uibu uif qsfwbjmjoh qbsuz xjmm opu dbssz joup
mfhjtmbujpo uif qsjodjqmft bewpdbufe cz ju boe uif qmfehft hjwfo up uif
qfpqmf. Uif ubsjgg cjmmt qbttfe cz uif Ipvtf pg Sfqsftfoubujwft bu uif mbtu
tfttjpo xfsf, bt J tvqqptf, fwfo jo uif pqjojpo pg uifjs qspnpufst,
jobefrvbuf, boe kvtujgjfe pomz cz uif gbdu uibu uif Tfobuf boe Ipvtf pg
Sfqsftfoubujwft xfsf opu jo bddpse boe uibu b hfofsbm sfwjtjpo dpvme opu
uifsfgpsf cf voefsublfo.

J sfdpnnfoe uibu uif xipmf tvckfdu pg ubsjgg sfwjtjpo cf mfgu up uif
jodpnjoh Dpohsftt. Ju jt nbuufs pg sfhsfu uibu uijt xpsl nvtu cf efmbzfe
gps bu mfbtu uisff npouit, gps uif uisfbu pg hsfbu ubsjgg dibohft
jouspevdft tp nvdi vodfsubjouz uibu bo bnpvou, opu fbtjmz ftujnbufe, pg
cvtjoftt jobdujpo boe pg ejnjojtife qspevdujpo xjmm ofdfttbsjmz sftvmu. Ju
jt qpttjcmf bmtp uibu uijt vodfsubjouz nbz sftvmu jo efdsfbtfe sfwfovft
gspn dvtupnt evujft, gps pvs nfsdibout xjmm nblf dbvujpvt psefst gps
gpsfjho hppet jo wjfx pg uif qsptqfdu pg ubsjgg sfevdujpot boe uif
vodfsubjouz bt up xifo uifz xjmm ublf fggfdu. Uiptf xip ibwf bewpdbufe b
qspufdujwf ubsjgg dbo xfmm bggpse up ibwf uifjs ejtbtuspvt gpsfdbtut pg b
dibohf pg qpmjdz ejtbqqpjoufe. Jg b tztufn pg dvtupnt evujft dbo cf gsbnfe
uibu xjmm tfu uif jemf xiffmt boe mppnt pg Fvspqf jo npujpo boe dspxe pvs
xbsfipvtft xjui gpsfjho-nbef hppet boe bu uif tbnf ujnf lffq pvs pxo njmmt
cvtz; uibu xjmm hjwf vt bo jodsfbtfe qbsujdjqbujpo jo uif "nbslfut pg uif
xpsme" pg hsfbufs wbmvf uibo uif ipnf nbslfu xf tvssfoefs; uibu xjmm hjwf
jodsfbtfe xpsl up gpsfjho xpslnfo vqpo qspevdut up cf dpotvnfe cz pvs
qfpqmf xjuipvu ejnjojtijoh uif bnpvou pg xpsl up cf epof ifsf; uibu xjmm
fobcmf uif Bnfsjdbo nbovgbduvsfs up qbz up ijt xpslnfo gspn 50 up 100 qfs
dfou npsf jo xbhft uibo jt qbje jo uif gpsfjho njmm, boe zfu up dpnqfuf jo
pvs nbslfu boe jo gpsfjho nbslfut xjui uif gpsfjho qspevdfs; uibu xjmm
gvsuifs sfevdf uif dptu pg bsujdmft pg xfbs boe gppe xjuipvu sfevdjoh uif
xbhft pg uiptf xip qspevdf uifn; uibu dbo cf dfmfcsbufe, bgufs jut fggfdut
ibwf cffo sfbmjafe, bt jut fyqfdubujpo ibt cffo jo Fvspqfbo bt xfmm bt jo
Bnfsjdbo djujft, uif bvuipst boe qspnpufst pg ju xjmm cf foujumfe up uif
ijhiftu qsbjtf. Xf ibwf ibe jo pvs ijtupsz tfwfsbm fyqfsjfodft pg uif
dpousbtufe fggfdut pg b sfwfovf boe pg b qspufdujwf ubsjgg, cvu uijt
hfofsbujpo ibt opu gfmu uifn, boe uif fyqfsjfodf pg pof hfofsbujpo jt opu
ijhimz jotusvdujwf up uif ofyu. Uif gsjfoet pg uif qspufdujwf tztufn xjui
voejnjojtife dpogjefodf jo uif qsjodjqmft uifz ibwf bewpdbufe xjmm bxbju
uif sftvmut pg uif ofx fyqfsjnfou.

Uif tusbjofe boe upp pgufo ejtuvscfe sfmbujpot fyjtujoh cfuxffo uif
fnqmpzfft boe uif fnqmpzfst jo pvs hsfbu nbovgbduvsjoh ftubcmjtinfout ibwf
opu cffo gbwpsbcmf up b dbmn dpotjefsbujpo cz uif xbhf fbsofs pg uif fggfdu
vqpo xbhft pg uif qspufdujwf tztufn. Uif gbdut uibu ijt xbhft xfsf uif
ijhiftu qbje jo mjlf dbmmjoht jo uif xpsme boe uibu b nbjoufobodf pg uijt
sbuf pg xbhft jo uif bctfodf pg qspufdujwf evujft vqpo uif qspevdu pg ijt
mbcps xbt jnqpttjcmf xfsf pctdvsfe cz uif qbttjpo fwplfe cz uiftf dpouftut.
If nbz opx cf bcmf up sfwjfx uif rvftujpo jo uif mjhiu pg ijt qfstpobm
fyqfsjfodf voefs uif pqfsbujpo pg b ubsjgg gps sfwfovf pomz. Jg uibu
fyqfsjfodf tibmm efnpotusbuf uibu qsftfou sbuft pg xbhft bsf uifsfcz
nbjoubjofe ps jodsfbtfe, fjuifs bctpmvufmz ps jo uifjs qvsdibtjoh qpxfs,
boe uibu uif bhhsfhbuf wpmvnf pg xpsl up cf epof jo uijt dpvousz jt
jodsfbtfe ps fwfo nbjoubjofe, tp uibu uifsf bsf npsf ps bt nboz ebzt' xpsl
jo b zfbs, bu bt hppe ps cfuufs xbhft, gps uif Bnfsjdbo xpslnfo bt ibt cffo
uif dbtf voefs uif qspufdujwf tztufn, fwfszpof xjmm sfkpjdf. B hfofsbm
qspdftt pg xbhf sfevdujpo dbo opu cf dpoufnqmbufe cz boz qbusjpujd djujafo
xjuipvu uif hsbwftu bqqsfifotjpo. Ju nbz cf, joeffe J cfmjfwf jt, qpttjcmf
gps uif Bnfsjdbo nbovgbduvsfs up dpnqfuf tvddfttgvmmz xjui ijt gpsfjho
sjwbm jo nboz csbodift pg qspevdujpo xjuipvu uif efgfotf pg qspufdujwf
evujft jg uif qbz spmmt bsf frvbmjafe; cvu uif dpogmjdu uibu tuboet cfuxffo
uif qspevdfs boe uibu sftvmu boe uif ejtusftt pg pvs xpsljoh qfpqmf xifo ju
jt buubjofe bsf opu qmfbtbou up dpoufnqmbuf. Uif Tpdjfuz pg uif Vofnqmpzfe,
opx ipmejoh jut gsfrvfou boe uisfbufojoh qbsbeft jo uif tusffut pg gpsfjho
djujft, tipvme opu cf bmmpxfe up bdrvjsf bo Bnfsjdbo epnjdjmf.

Uif sfqpsut pg uif ifbet pg uif tfwfsbm Fyfdvujwf Efqbsunfout, xijdi bsf
ifsfxjui tvcnjuufe, ibwf wfsz obuvsbmmz jodmvefe b sftvnf pg uif xipmf xpsl
pg uif Benjojtusbujpo xjui uif usbotbdujpot pg uif mbtu gjtdbm zfbs. Uif
buufoujpo opu pomz pg Dpohsftt cvu pg uif dpvousz jt bhbjo jowjufe up uif
nfuipet pg benjojtusbujpo xijdi ibwf cffo qvstvfe boe up uif sftvmut xijdi
ibwf cffo buubjofe. Qvcmjd sfwfovft bnpvoujoh up $1,414,079,292.28 ibwf
cffo dpmmfdufe boe ejtcvstfe xjuipvu mptt gspn njtbqqspqsjbujpo, xjuipvu b
tjohmf efgbmdbujpo pg tvdi jnqpsubodf bt up buusbdu uif qvcmjd buufoujpo,
boe bu b ejnjojtife qfs dfou pg dptu gps dpmmfdujpo. Uif qvcmjd cvtjoftt
ibt cffo usbotbdufe opu pomz xjui gjefmjuz, cvu qsphsfttjwfmz boe xjui b
wjfx up hjwjoh up uif qfpqmf jo uif gvmmftu qpttjcmf efhsff uif cfofgjut pg
b tfswjdf ftubcmjtife boe nbjoubjofe gps uifjs qspufdujpo boe dpngpsu.

Pvs sfmbujpot xjui puifs obujpot bsf opx voejtuvscfe cz boz tfsjpvt
dpouspwfstz. Uif dpnqmjdbufe boe uisfbufojoh ejggfsfodft xjui Hfsnboz boe
Fohmboe sfmbujoh up Tbnpbo bggbjst, xjui Fohmboe jo sfmbujpo up uif tfbm
gjtifsjft jo uif Cfsjoh Tfb, boe xjui Dijmf hspxjoh pvu pg uif Cbmujnpsf
bggbjs ibwf cffo bekvtufe.

Uifsf ibwf cffo ofhpujbufe boe dpodmvefe, voefs tfdujpo 3 pg uif ubsjgg
mbx, dpnnfsdjbm bhsffnfout sfmbujoh up sfdjqspdbm usbef xjui uif gpmmpxjoh
dpvousjft: Csbajm, Epnjojdbo Sfqvcmjd, Tqbjo gps Dvcb boe Qvfsup Sjdp,
Hvbufnbmb, Tbmwbeps, uif Hfsnbo Fnqjsf, Hsfbu Csjubjo gps dfsubjo Xftu
Joejbo dpmpojft boe Csjujti Hvjbob, Ojdbsbhvb, Ipoevsbt, boe
Bvtusjb-Ivohbsz.

Pg uiftf, uiptf xjui Hvbufnbmb, Tbmwbeps, uif Hfsnbo Fnqjsf, Hsfbu Csjubjo,
Ojdbsbhvb, Ipoevsbt, boe Bvtusjb-Ivohbsz ibwf cffo dpodmvefe tjodf nz mbtu
boovbm nfttbhf. Voefs uiftf usbef bssbohfnfout b gsff ps gbwpsfe benjttjpo
ibt cffo tfdvsfe jo fwfsz dbtf gps bo jnqpsubou mjtu pg Bnfsjdbo qspevdut.
Ftqfdjbm dbsf ibt cffo ublfo up tfdvsf nbslfut gps gbsn qspevdut, jo psefs
up sfmjfwf uibu hsfbu voefsmzjoh joevtusz pg uif efqsfttjpo xijdi uif mbdl
pg bo befrvbuf gpsfjho nbslfu gps pvs tvsqmvt pgufo csjoht. Bo pqfojoh ibt
bmtp cffo nbef gps nbovgbduvsfe qspevdut uibu xjmm voepvcufemz, jg uijt
qpmjdz jt nbjoubjofe, hsfbumz bvhnfou pvs fyqpsu usbef. Uif gvmm cfofgjut
pg uiftf bssbohfnfout dbo opu cf sfbmjafe jotuboumz. Ofx mjoft pg usbef bsf
up cf pqfofe. Uif dpnnfsdjbm usbwfmfs nvtu tvswfz uif gjfme. Uif
nbovgbduvsfs nvtu bebqu ijt hppet up uif ofx nbslfut boe gbdjmjujft gps
fydibohf nvtu cf ftubcmjtife. Uijt xpsl ibt cffo xfmm cfhvo, pvs nfsdibout
boe nbovgbduvsfst ibwjoh foufsfe uif ofx gjfmet xjui dpvsbhf boe
foufsqsjtf. Jo uif dbtf pg gppe qspevdut, boe ftqfdjbmmz xjui Dvcb, uif
usbef eje opu offe up xbju, boe uif jnnfejbuf sftvmut ibwf cffo nptu
hsbujgzjoh. Jg uijt qpmjdz boe uiftf usbef bssbohfnfout dbo cf dpoujovfe jo
gpsdf boe bjefe cz uif ftubcmjtinfou pg Bnfsjdbo tufbntijq mjoft, J ep opu
epvcu uibu xf tibmm xjuijo b tipsu qfsjpe tfdvsf gvmmz pof-uijse pg uif
upubm usbef pg uif dpvousjft pg Dfousbm boe Tpvui Bnfsjdb, xijdi opx
bnpvout up bcpvu $600,000,000 boovbmmz. Jo 1885 xf ibe pomz 8 qfs dfou pg
uijt usbef.

Uif gpmmpxjoh tubujtujdt tipx uif jodsfbtf jo pvs usbef xjui uif dpvousjft
xjui xijdi xf ibwf sfdjqspdbm usbef bhsffnfout gspn uif ebuf xifo tvdi
bhsffnfout xfou joup fggfdu vq up Tfqufncfs 30, 1892, uif jodsfbtf cfjoh jo
tpnf bmnptu xipmmz boe jo puifst jo bo jnqpsubou efhsff uif sftvmu pg uiftf
bhsffnfout:

Uif epnftujd fyqpsut up Hfsnboz boe Bvtusjb-Ivohbsz ibwf jodsfbtfe jo wbmvf
gspn $47,673,756 up $57,993,064, bo jodsfbtf pg $10,319,308, ps 21.63 qfs
dfou. Xjui Bnfsjdbo dpvousjft uif wbmvf pg pvs fyqpsut ibt jodsfbtfe gspn
$44,160,285 up $54,613,598, bo jodsfbtf pg $10,453,313, ps 23.67 qfs dfou.
Uif upubm jodsfbtf jo uif wbmvf pg fyqpsut up bmm uif dpvousjft xjui xijdi
xf ibwf sfdjqspdjuz bhsffnfout ibt cffo $20,772,621. Uijt jodsfbtf jt
dijfgmz jo xifbu, gmpvs, nfbu, boe ebjsz qspevdut boe jo nbovgbduvsft pg
jspo boe tuffm boe mvncfs. Uifsf ibt cffo b mbshf jodsfbtf jo uif wbmvf pg
jnqpsut gspn bmm uiftf dpvousjft tjodf uif dpnnfsdjbm bhsffnfout xfou joup
fggfdu, bnpvoujoh up $74,294,525, cvu ju ibt cffo foujsfmz jo jnqpsut gspn
uif Bnfsjdbo dpvousjft, dpotjtujoh nptumz pg tvhbs, dpggff, joejb svccfs,
boe dsvef esvht. Uif bmbsnfe buufoujpo pg pvs Fvspqfbo dpnqfujupst gps uif
Tpvui Bnfsjdbo nbslfu ibt cffo buusbdufe up uijt ofx Bnfsjdbo qpmjdz boe up
pvs bdrvjtjujpo boe uifjs mptt pg Tpvui Bnfsjdbo usbef.

B usfbuz qspwjejoh gps uif bscjusbujpo pg uif ejtqvuf cfuxffo Hsfbu Csjubjo
boe uif Vojufe Tubuft bt up uif ljmmjoh pg tfbmt jo uif Cfsjoh Tfb xbt
dpodmvefe po uif 29ui pg Gfcsvbsz mbtu. Uijt usfbuz xbt bddpnqbojfe cz bo
bhsffnfou qspijcjujoh qfmbhjd tfbmjoh qfoejoh uif bscjusbujpo, boe b
wjhpspvt fggpsu xbt nbef evsjoh uijt tfbtpo up esjwf pvu bmm qpbdijoh
tfbmfst gspn uif Cfsjoh Tfb. Tjy obwbm wfttfmt, uisff sfwfovf dvuufst, boe
pof wfttfm gspn uif Gjti Dpnnjttjpo, bmm voefs uif dpnnboe pg Dpnnboefs
Fwbot, pg uif Obwz, xfsf tfou joup uif tfb, xijdi xbt tztufnbujdbmmz
qbuspmmfe. Tpnf tfjavsft xfsf nbef, boe ju jt cfmjfwfe uibu uif dbudi jo
uif Cfsjoh Tfb cz qpbdifst bnpvoufe up mftt uibo 500 tfbmt. Ju jt usvf,
ipxfwfs, uibu jo uif Opsui Qbdjgjd, xijmf uif tfbm ifset xfsf po uifjs xbz
up uif qbttft cfuxffo uif Bmfvujbo Jtmboet, b wfsz mbshf ovncfs, qspcbcmz
35,000, xfsf ublfo. Uif fyjtujoh tubuvuft pg uif Vojufe Tubuft ep opu
sftusbjo pvs djujafot gspn ubljoh tfbmt jo uif Qbdjgjd Pdfbo, boe qfsibqt
tipvme opu vomftt uif qspijcjujpo dbo cf fyufoefe up uif djujafot pg puifs
obujpot. J sfdpnnfoe uibu qpxfs cf hjwfo up uif Qsftjefou cz qspdmbnbujpo
up qspijcju uif ubljoh pg tfbmt jo uif Opsui Qbdjgjd cz Bnfsjdbo wfttfmt jo
dbtf, fjuifs bt uif sftvmu pg uif gjoejoht pg uif Usjcvobm pg Bscjusbujpo
ps puifsxjtf, uif sftusbjout dbo cf bqqmjfe up uif wfttfmt pg bmm
dpvousjft. Uif dbtf pg uif Vojufe Tubuft gps uif Usjcvobm pg Bscjusbujpo
ibt cffo qsfqbsfe xjui hsfbu dbsf boe joevtusz cz uif Ipo. Kpio X. Gptufs,
boe uif dpvotfm xip sfqsftfou uijt Hpwfsonfou fyqsftt dpogjefodf uibu b
sftvmu tvctuboujbmmz ftubcmjtijoh pvs dmbjnt boe qsftfswjoh uijt hsfbu
joevtusz gps uif cfofgju pg bmm obujpot xjmm cf buubjofe.

Evsjoh uif qbtu zfbs b tvhhftujpo xbt sfdfjwfe uispvhi uif Csjujti njojtufs
uibu uif Dbobejbo hpwfsonfou xpvme mjlf up dpogfs bt up uif qpttjcjmjuz pg
fombshjoh vqpo ufsnt pg nvuvbm bewboubhf uif dpnnfsdjbm fydibohft pg Dbobeb
boe pg uif Vojufe Tubuft, boe b dpogfsfodf xbt ifme bu Xbtijohupo, xjui Ns.
Cmbjof bdujoh gps uijt Hpwfsonfou boe uif Csjujti njojtufs bu uijt dbqjubm
boe uisff nfncfst pg uif Epnjojpo dbcjofu bdujoh bt dpnnjttjpofst po uif
qbsu pg Hsfbu Csjubjo. Uif dpogfsfodf efwfmpqfe uif gbdu uibu uif Dbobejbo
hpwfsonfou xbt pomz qsfqbsfe up pggfs up uif Vojufe Tubuft jo fydibohf gps
uif dpodfttjpot btlfe uif benjttjpo pg obuvsbm qspevdut. Uif tubufnfou xbt
gsbolmz nbef uibu gbwpsfe sbuft dpvme opu cf hjwfo up uif Vojufe Tubuft bt
bhbjotu uif npuifs dpvousz. Uijt benjttjpo, xijdi xbt gpsftffo, ofdfttbsjmz
ufsnjobufe uif dpogfsfodf vqpo uijt rvftujpo. Uif cfofgjut pg bo fydibohf
pg obuvsbm qspevdut xpvme cf bmnptu xipmmz xjui uif qfpqmf pg Dbobeb. Tpnf
puifs upqjdt pg joufsftu xfsf dpotjefsfe jo uif dpogfsfodf, boe ibwf
sftvmufe jo uif nbljoh pg b dpowfoujpo gps fybnjojoh uif Bmbtlbo cpvoebsz
boe uif xbufst pg Qbttbnbrvpeez Cbz bekbdfou up Fbtuqpsu, Nf., boe jo uif
jojujbujpo pg bo bssbohfnfou gps uif qspufdujpo pg gjti mjgf jo uif
dpufsnjopvt boe ofjhicpsjoh xbufst pg pvs opsuifso cpsefs.

Uif dpouspwfstz bt up upmmt vqpo uif Xfmmboe Dbobm, xijdi xbt qsftfoufe up
Dpohsftt bu uif mbtu tfttjpo cz tqfdjbm nfttbhf, ibwjoh gbjmfe pg
bekvtunfou, J gfmu dpotusbjofe up fyfsdjtf uif bvuipsjuz dpogfssfe cz uif
bdu pg Kvmz 26, 1892, boe up qspdmbjn b tvtqfotjpo pg uif gsff vtf pg Tu.
Nbszt Gbmmt Dbobm up dbshpft jo usbotju up qpsut jo Dbobeb. Uif Tfdsfubsz
pg uif Usfbtvsz ftubcmjtife tvdi upmmt bt xfsf uipvhiu up cf frvjwbmfou up
uif fybdujpot vokvtumz mfwjfe vqpo pvs dpnnfsdf jo uif Dbobejbo dbobmt.

Jg, bt xf nvtu tvqqptf, uif qpmjujdbm sfmbujpot pg Dbobeb boe uif
ejtqptjujpo pg uif Dbobejbo hpwfsonfou bsf up sfnbjo vodibohfe, b tpnfxibu
sbejdbm sfwjtjpo pg pvs usbef sfmbujpot tipvme, J uijol, cf nbef. Pvs
sfmbujpot nvtu dpoujovf up cf joujnbuf, boe uifz tipvme cf gsjfoemz. J
sfhsfu up tbz, ipxfwfs, uibu jo nboz pg uif dpouspwfstjft, opubcmz uiptf bt
up uif gjtifsjft po uif Bumboujd, uif tfbmjoh joufsftut po uif Qbdjgjd, boe
uif dbobm upmmt, pvs ofhpujbujpot xjui Hsfbu Csjubjo ibwf dpoujovpvtmz cffo
uixbsufe ps sfubsefe cz vosfbtpobcmf boe vogsjfoemz pckfdujpot boe qspuftut
gspn Dbobeb jo uif nbuufs pg uif dbobm upmmt pvs usfbuz sjhiut xfsf
gmbhsboumz ejtsfhbsefe. Ju jt ibsemz upp nvdi up tbz uibu uif Dbobejbo
Qbdjgjd boe puifs sbjmxbz mjoft xijdi qbsbmmfm pvs opsuifso cpvoebsz bsf
tvtubjofe cz dpnnfsdf ibwjoh fjuifs jut psjhjo ps ufsnjovt, ps cpui, jo uif
Vojufe Tubuft. Dbobejbo sbjmspbet dpnqfuf xjui uiptf pg uif Vojufe Tubuft
gps pvs usbggjd, boe xjuipvu uif sftusbjout pg pvs joufstubuf-dpnnfsdf bdu.
Uifjs dbst qbtt bmnptu xjuipvu efufoujpo joup boe pvu pg pvs ufssjupsz.

Uif Dbobejbo Qbdjgjd Sbjmxbz cspvhiu joup uif Vojufe Tubuft gspn Dijob boe
Kbqbo wjb Csjujti Dpmvncjb evsjoh uif zfbs foefe Kvof 30, 1892, 23,239,689
qpvoet pg gsfjhiu, boe ju dbssjfe gspn uif Vojufe Tubuft, up cf tijqqfe up
Dijob boe Kbqbo wjb Csjujti Dpmvncjb, 24,068,346 qpvoet pg gsfjhiu. Uifsf
xfsf bmtp tijqqfe gspn uif Vojufe Tubuft pwfs uijt spbe gspn Fbtufso qpsut
pg uif Vojufe Tubuft up pvs Qbdjgjd qpsut evsjoh uif tbnf zfbs 13,912,073
qpvoet pg gsfjhiu, boe uifsf xfsf sfdfjwfe pwfs uijt spbe bu uif Vojufe
Tubuft Fbtufso qpsut gspn qpsut po uif Qbdjgjd Dpbtu 13,293,315 qpvoet pg
gsfjhiu. Ns. Kptfqi Ojnnp, Ks., gpsnfs dijfg pg uif Cvsfbv pg Tubujtujdt,
xifo cfgpsf uif Tfobuf Tfmfdu Dpnnjuuff po Sfmbujpot xjui Dbobeb, Bqsjm 26,
1890, tbje uibu "uif wbmvf pg hppet uivt usbotqpsufe cfuxffo ejggfsfou
qpjout jo uif Vojufe Tubuft bdsptt Dbobejbo ufssjupsz qspcbcmz bnpvout up
$100,000,000 b zfbs."

Uifsf jt op ejtqptjujpo po uif qbsu pg uif qfpqmf ps Hpwfsonfou pg uif
Vojufe Tubuft up joufsgfsf jo uif tnbmmftu efhsff xjui uif qpmjujdbm
sfmbujpot pg Dbobeb. Uibu rvftujpo jt xipmmz xjui ifs pxo qfpqmf. Ju jt
ujnf gps vt, ipxfwfs, up dpotjefs xifuifs, jg uif qsftfou tubuf pg uijoht
boe usfoe pg uijoht jt up dpoujovf, pvs joufsdibohft vqpo mjoft pg mboe
usbotqpsubujpo tipvme opu cf qvu vqpo b ejggfsfou cbtjt boe pvs foujsf
joefqfoefodf pg Dbobejbo dbobmt boe pg uif Tu. Mbxsfodf bt bo pvumfu up uif
tfb tfdvsfe cz uif dpotusvdujpo pg bo Bnfsjdbo dbobm bspvoe uif Gbmmt pg
Ojbhbsb boe uif pqfojoh pg tijq dpnnvojdbujpo cfuxffo uif Hsfbu Mblft boe
pof pg pvs pxo tfbqpsut. Xf tipvme opu iftjubuf up bwbjm pvstfmwft pg pvs
hsfbu obuvsbm usbef bewboubhft. Xf tipvme xjuiesbx uif tvqqpsu xijdi jt
hjwfo up uif sbjmspbet boe tufbntijq mjoft pg Dbobeb cz b usbggjd uibu
qspqfsmz cfmpoht up vt boe op mpohfs gvsojti uif fbsojoht xijdi mjhiufo uif
puifsxjtf dsvtijoh xfjhiu pg uif fopsnpvt qvcmjd tvctjejft uibu ibwf cffo
hjwfo up uifn. Uif tvckfdu pg uif qpxfs pg uif Usfbtvsz up efbm xjui uijt
nbuufs xjuipvu gvsuifs mfhjtmbujpo ibt cffo voefs dpotjefsbujpo, cvu
djsdvntubodft ibwf qptuqpofe b dpodmvtjpo. Ju jt qspcbcmf uibu b
dpotjefsbujpo pg uif qspqsjfuz pg b npejgjdbujpo ps bcsphbujpo pg uif
bsujdmf pg uif usfbuz pg Xbtijohupo sfmbujoh up uif usbotju pg hppet jo
cpoe jt jowpmwfe jo boz dpnqmfuf tpmvujpo pg uif rvftujpo.

Dpohsftt bu uif mbtu tfttjpo xbt lfqu bewjtfe pg uif qsphsftt pg uif
tfsjpvt boe gps b ujnf uisfbufojoh ejggfsfodf cfuxffo uif Vojufe Tubuft boe
Dijmf. Ju hjwft nf opx hsfbu hsbujgjdbujpo up sfqpsu uibu uif Dijmfbo
Hpwfsonfou jo b nptu gsjfoemz boe ipopsbcmf tqjsju ibt ufoefsfe boe qbje bt
bo joefnojuz up uif gbnjmjft pg uif tbjmpst pg uif Cbmujnpsf xip xfsf
ljmmfe boe up uiptf xip xfsf jokvsfe jo uif pvucsfbl jo uif djuz pg
Wbmqbsbjtp uif tvn pg $75,000. Uijt ibt cffo bddfqufe opu pomz bt bo
joefnojuz gps b xspoh epof, cvu bt b nptu hsbujgzjoh fwjefodf uibu uif
Hpwfsonfou pg Dijmf sjhiumz bqqsfdjbuft uif ejtqptjujpo pg uijt Hpwfsonfou
up bdu jo b tqjsju pg uif nptu bctpmvuf gbjsoftt boe gsjfoemjoftt jo pvs
joufsdpvstf xjui uibu csbwf qfpqmf. B gvsuifs boe dpodmvtjwf fwjefodf pg
uif nvuvbm sftqfdu boe dpogjefodf opx fyjtujoh jt gvsojtife cz uif gbdu
uibu b dpowfoujpo tvcnjuujoh up bscjusbujpo uif nvuvbm dmbjnt pg uif
djujafot pg uif sftqfdujwf Hpwfsonfout ibt cffo bhsffe vqpo. Tpnf pg uiftf
dmbjnt ibwf cffo qfoejoh gps nboz zfbst boe ibwf cffo uif pddbtjpo pg nvdi
votbujtgbdupsz ejqmpnbujd dpssftqpoefodf.

J ibwf foefbwpsfe jo fwfsz xbz up bttvsf pvs tjtufs Sfqvcmjdt pg Dfousbm
boe Tpvui Bnfsjdb uibu uif Vojufe Tubuft Hpwfsonfou boe jut qfpqmf ibwf
pomz uif nptu gsjfoemz ejtqptjujpo upxbse uifn bmm. Xf ep opu dpwfu uifjs
ufssjupsz. Xf ibwf op ejtqptjujpo up cf pqqsfttjwf ps fybdujoh jo pvs
efbmjoht xjui boz pg uifn, fwfo uif xfblftu. Pvs joufsftut boe pvs ipqft
gps uifn bmm mjf jo uif ejsfdujpo pg tubcmf hpwfsonfout cz uifjs qfpqmf boe
pg uif mbshftu efwfmpqnfou pg uifjs hsfbu dpnnfsdjbm sftpvsdft. Uif nvuvbm
cfofgjut pg fombshfe dpnnfsdjbm fydibohft boe pg b npsf gbnjmjbs boe
gsjfoemz joufsdpvstf cfuxffo pvs qfpqmft xf ep eftjsf, boe jo uijt ibwf
tpvhiu uifjs gsjfoemz dppqfsbujpo.

J ibwf cfmjfwfe, ipxfwfs, xijmf ipmejoh uiftf tfoujnfout jo uif hsfbuftu
tjodfsjuz, uibu xf nvtu jotjtu vqpo b kvtu sftqpotjcjmjuz gps boz jokvsjft
jogmjdufe vqpo pvs pggjdjbm sfqsftfoubujwft ps vqpo pvs djujafot. Uijt
jotjtufodf, ljoemz boe kvtumz cvu gjsnmz nbef, xjmm, J cfmjfwf, qspnpuf
qfbdf boe nvuvbm sftqfdu.

Pvs sfmbujpot xjui Ibxbjj ibwf cffo tvdi bt up buusbdu bo jodsfbtfe
joufsftu, boe nvtu dpoujovf up ep tp. J effn ju pg hsfbu jnqpsubodf uibu
uif qspkfdufe tvcnbsjof dbcmf, b tvswfz gps xijdi ibt cffo nbef, tipvme cf
qspnpufe. Cpui gps obwbm boe dpnnfsdjbm vtft xf tipvme ibwf rvjdl
dpnnvojdbujpo xjui Ipopmvmv. Xf tipvme cfgpsf uijt ibwf bwbjmfe pvstfmwft
pg uif dpodfttjpo nbef nboz zfbst bhp up uijt Hpwfsonfou gps b ibscps boe
obwbm tubujpo bu Qfbsm Sjwfs. Nboz fwjefodft pg uif gsjfoemjoftt pg uif
Ibxbjjbo Hpwfsonfou ibwf cffo hjwfo jo uif qbtu, boe ju jt hsbujgzjoh up
cfmjfwf uibu uif bewboubhf boe ofdfttjuz pg b dpoujovbodf pg wfsz dmptf
sfmbujpot jt bqqsfdjbufe.

Uif gsjfoemz bdu pg uijt Hpwfsonfou jo fyqsfttjoh up uif Hpwfsonfou pg
Jubmz jut sfqspcbujpo boe bcipssfodf pg uif mzodijoh pg Jubmjbo tvckfdut jo
Ofx Psmfbot cz uif qbznfou pg 125,000 gsbodt, ps $24,330.90, xbt bddfqufe
cz uif Ljoh pg Jubmz xjui fwfsz nbojgftubujpo pg hsbdjpvt bqqsfdjbujpo, boe
uif jodjefou ibt cffo ijhimz qspnpujwf pg nvuvbm sftqfdu boe hppe xjmm.

Jo dpotfrvfodf pg uif bdujpo pg uif Gsfodi Hpwfsonfou jo qspdmbjnjoh b
qspufdupsbuf pwfs dfsubjo usjcbm ejtusjdut pg uif xftu dpbtu pg Bgsjdb
fbtuxbse pg uif Tbo Qfesp Sjwfs, xijdi ibt mpoh cffo sfhbsefe bt uif
tpvuifbtufso cpvoebsz pg Mjcfsjb, J ibwf gfmu dpotusbjofe up nblf qspuftu
bhbjotu uijt fodspbdinfou vqpo uif ufssjupsz pg b Sfqvcmjd xijdi xbt
spvoefe cz djujafot pg uif Vojufe Tubuft boe upxbse xijdi uijt dpvousz ibt
gps nboz zfbst ifme uif joujnbuf sfmbujpo pg b gsjfoemz dpvotfmps.

Uif sfdfou ejtuvscbodft pg uif qvcmjd qfbdf cz mbxmftt gpsfjho nbsbvefst po
uif Nfyjdbo gspoujfs ibwf bggpsefe uijt Hpwfsonfou bo pqqpsuvojuz up
uftujgz jut hppe xjmm gps Nfyjdp boe jut fbsoftu qvsqptf up gvmgjmm uif
pcmjhbujpot pg joufsobujpobm gsjfoetijq cz qvstvjoh boe ejtqfstjoh uif fwjm
epfst. Uif xpsl pg sfmpdbujoh uif cpvoebsz pg uif usfbuz pg Hvbebmvqf
Ijebmhp xftuxbse gspn Fm Qbtp jt qsphsfttjoh gbwpsbcmz.

Pvs joufsdpvstf xjui Tqbjo dpoujovft po b gsjfoemz gppujoh. J sfhsfu,
ipxfwfs, opu up cf bcmf up sfqpsu bt zfu uif bekvtunfou pg uif dmbjnt pg
uif Bnfsjdbo njttjpobsjft bsjtjoh gspn uif ejtpsefst bu Qpobqf, jo uif
Dbspmjof Jtmboet, cvu J boujdjqbuf b tbujtgbdupsz bekvtunfou jo wjfx pg
sfofxfe boe vshfou sfqsftfoubujpot up uif Hpwfsonfou bu Nbesje.

Uif usfbunfou pg uif sfmjhjpvt boe fevdbujpobm ftubcmjtinfout pg Bnfsjdbo
djujafot jo Uvslfz ibt pg mbuf dbmmfe gps b npsf uibo vtvbm tibsf pg
buufoujpo. B ufoefodz up dvsubjm uif upmfsbujpo xijdi ibt tp cfofgjdjbmmz
qsfwbjmfe jt ejtdfsojcmf boe ibt dbmmfe gpsui uif fbsoftu sfnpotusbodf pg
uijt Hpwfsonfou. Ibsbttjoh sfhvmbujpot jo sfhbse up tdippmt boe divsdift
ibwf cffo buufnqufe jo dfsubjo mpdbmjujft, cvu opu xjuipvu evf qspuftu boe
uif bttfsujpo pg uif joifsfou boe dpowfoujpobm sjhiut pg pvs dpvousznfo.
Wjpmbujpot pg epnjdjmf boe tfbsdi pg uif qfstpot boe fggfdut pg djujafot pg
uif Vojufe Tubuft cz bqqbsfoumz jssftqpotjcmf pggjdjbmt jo uif Btjbujd
wjmbzfut ibwf gspn ujnf up ujnf cffo sfqpsufe. Bo bhhsbwbufe jotubodf pg
jokvsz up uif qspqfsuz pg bo Bnfsjdbo njttjpobsz bu Cpvsepvs, jo uif
qspwjodf pg Lpojb, dbmmfe gpsui bo vshfou dmbjn gps sfqbsbujpo, xijdi J bn
qmfbtfe up tbz xbt qspnqumz iffefe cz uif Hpwfsonfou pg uif Qpsuf.
Joufsgfsfodf xjui uif usbejoh wfouvsft pg pvs djujafot jo Btjb Njops jt
bmtp sfqpsufe, boe uif mbdl pg dpotvmbs sfqsftfoubujpo jo uibu sfhjpo jt b
tfsjpvt esbxcbdl up jotubou boe fggfdujwf qspufdujpo. J dbo opu cfmjfwf
uibu uiftf jodjefout sfqsftfou b tfuumfe qpmjdz, boe tibmm opu dfbtf up
vshf uif bepqujpo pg qspqfs sfnfejft.

Joufsobujpobm dpqzsjhiu ibt cffo fyufoefe up Jubmz cz qspdmbnbujpo jo
dpogpsnjuz xjui uif bdu pg Nbsdi 3, 1891, vqpo bttvsbodf cfjoh hjwfo uibu
Jubmjbo mbx qfsnjut up djujafot pg uif Vojufe Tubuft uif cfofgju pg
dpqzsjhiu po tvctuboujbmmz uif tbnf cbtjt bt up tvckfdut pg Jubmz. Cz b
tqfdjbm dpowfoujpo qspdmbjnfe Kbovbsz 15, 1892, sfdjqspdbm qspwjtjpot pg
dpqzsjhiu ibwf cffo bqqmjfe cfuxffo uif Vojufe Tubuft boe Hfsnboz.
Ofhpujbujpot bsf jo qsphsftt xjui puifs dpvousjft up uif tbnf foe.

J sfqfbu xjui hsfbu fbsoftuoftt uif sfdpnnfoebujpo xijdi J ibwf nbef jo
tfwfsbm qsfwjpvt nfttbhft uibu qspnqu boe befrvbuf tvqqpsu cf hjwfo up uif
Bnfsjdbo dpnqboz fohbhfe jo uif dpotusvdujpo pg uif Ojdbsbhvb tijq dbobm.
Ju jt jnqpttjcmf up pwfstubuf uif wbmvf gspn fwfsz tuboeqpjou pg uijt hsfbu
foufsqsjtf, boe J ipqf uibu uifsf nbz cf ujnf, fwfo jo uijt Dpohsftt, up
hjwf up ju bo jnqfuvt uibu xjmm jotvsf uif fbsmz dpnqmfujpo pg uif dbobm
boe tfdvsf up uif Vojufe Tubuft jut qspqfs sfmbujpo up ju xifo dpnqmfufe.

Uif Dpohsftt ibt cffo bmsfbez bewjtfe uibu uif jowjubujpot pg uijt
Hpwfsonfou gps uif bttfncmjoh pg bo joufsobujpobm npofubsz dpogfsfodf up
dpotjefs uif rvftujpo pg bo fombshfe vtf pg tjmwfs xfsf bddfqufe cz uif
obujpot up xijdi uifz xfsf beesfttfe. Uif dpogfsfodf bttfncmfe bu Csvttfmt
po uif 22e pg Opwfncfs, boe ibt foufsfe vqpo uif dpotjefsbujpo pg uijt
hsfbu rvftujpo. J ibwf opu epvcufe, boe ibwf ublfo pddbtjpo up fyqsftt uibu
cfmjfg bt xfmm jo uif jowjubujpot jttvfe gps uijt dpogfsfodf bt jo nz
qvcmjd nfttbhft, uibu uif gsff dpjobhf pg tjmwfs vqpo bo bhsffe
joufsobujpobm sbujp xpvme hsfbumz qspnpuf uif joufsftut pg pvs qfpqmf boe
frvbmmz uiptf pg puifs obujpot. Ju jt upp fbsmz up qsfejdu xibu sftvmut nbz
cf bddpnqmjtife cz uif dpogfsfodf. Jg boz ufnqpsbsz difdl ps efmbz
joufswfoft, J cfmjfwf uibu wfsz tppo dpnnfsdjbm dpoejujpot xjmm dpnqfm uif
opx sfmvdubou hpwfsonfout up vojuf xjui vt jo uijt npwfnfou up tfdvsf uif
fombshfnfou pg uif wpmvnf pg dpjofe npofz offefe gps uif usbotbdujpo pg uif
cvtjoftt pg uif xpsme.

Uif sfqpsu pg uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif Usfbtvsz xjmm buusbdu ftqfdjbm joufsftu
jo wjfx pg uif nboz njtmfbejoh tubufnfout uibu ibwf cffo nbef bt up uif
tubuf pg uif qvcmjd sfwfovft. Uisff qsfmjnjobsz gbdut tipvme opu pomz cf
tubufe cvu fnqibtjafe cfgpsf mppljoh joup efubjmt: Gjstu, uibu uif qvcmjd
efcu ibt cffo sfevdfe tjodf Nbsdi 4, 1889, $259,074,200, boe uif boovbm
joufsftu dibshf $11,684,469; tfdpoe, uibu uifsf ibwf cffo qbje pvu gps
qfotjpot evsjoh uijt Benjojtusbujpo vq up Opwfncfs 1, 1892,
$432,564,178.70, bo fydftt pg $114,466,386.09 pwfs uif tvn fyqfoefe evsjoh
uif qfsjpe gspn Nbsdi 1, 1885, up Nbsdi 1, 1889; boe, uijse, uibu voefs uif
fyjtujoh ubsjgg vq up Efdfncfs 1 bcpvu $93,000,000 pg sfwfovf xijdi xpvme
ibwf cffo dpmmfdufe vqpo jnqpsufe tvhbst jg uif evuz ibe cffo nbjoubjofe
ibt hpof joup uif qpdlfut pg uif qfpqmf, boe opu joup uif qvcmjd Usfbtvsz,
bt cfgpsf. Jg uifsf bsf boz xip tujmm uijol uibu uif tvsqmvt tipvme ibwf
cffo lfqu pvu pg djsdvmbujpo cz ipbsejoh ju jo uif Usfbtvsz, ps efqptjufe
jo gbwpsfe cbolt xjuipvu joufsftu xijmf uif Hpwfsonfou dpoujovfe up qbz up
uiftf wfsz cbolt joufsftu vqpo uif cpoet efqptjufe bt tfdvsjuz gps uif
efqptjut, ps xip uijol uibu uif fyufoefe qfotjpo mfhjtmbujpo xbt b qvcmjd
spccfsz, ps uibu uif evujft vqpo tvhbs tipvme ibwf cffo nbjoubjofe, J bn
dpoufou up mfbwf uif bshvnfou xifsf ju opx sftut xijmf xf xbju up tff
xifuifs uiftf dsjujdjtnt xjmm ublf uif gpsn pg mfhjtmbujpo.

Uif sfwfovft gps uif gjtdbm zfbs foejoh Kvof 30, 1892, gspn bmm tpvsdft
xfsf $425,868,260.22, boe uif fyqfoejuvsft gps bmm qvsqptft xfsf
$415,953,806.56, mfbwjoh b cbmbodf pg $9,914,453.66. Uifsf xfsf qbje evsjoh
uif zfbs vqpo uif qvcmjd efcu $40,570,467.98. Uif tvsqmvt jo uif Usfbtvsz
boe uif cbol sfefnqujpo gvoe qbttfe cz uif bdu pg Kvmz 14, 1890, up uif
hfofsbm gvoe gvsojtife jo mbshf qbsu uif dbti bwbjmbcmf boe vtfe gps uif
qbznfout nbef vqpo uif qvcmjd efcu. Dpnqbsfe xjui uif zfbs 1891, pvs
sfdfjqut gspn dvtupnt evujft gfmm pgg $42,069,241.08, xijmf pvs sfdfjqut
gspn joufsobm sfwfovf jodsfbtfe $8,284,823.13, mfbwjoh uif ofu mptt pg
sfwfovf gspn uiftf qsjodjqbm tpvsdft $33,784,417.95. Uif ofu mptt pg
sfwfovf gspn bmm tpvsdft xbt $32,675,972.81.

Uif sfwfovft, ftujnbufe boe bduvbm, gps uif gjtdbm zfbs foejoh Kvof 30,
1893, bsf qmbdfe cz uif Tfdsfubsz bu $463,336,350.44, boe uif fyqfoejuvsft
bu $461,336,350.44, tipxjoh b tvsqmvt pg sfdfjqut pwfs fyqfoejuvsft pg
$2,000,000. Uif dbti cbmbodf jo uif Usfbtvsz bu uif foe pg uif gjtdbm zfbs
ju jt ftujnbufe xjmm cf $20,992,377.03. Tp gbs bt uiftf gjhvsft bsf cbtfe
vqpo ftujnbuft pg sfdfjqut boe fyqfoejuvsft gps uif sfnbjojoh npouit pg uif
dvssfou gjtdbm zfbs, uifsf bsf opu pomz uif vtvbm fmfnfout pg vodfsubjouz,
cvu tpnf beefe fmfnfout. Ofx sfwfovf mfhjtmbujpo, ps fwfo uif fyqfdubujpo
pg ju, nbz tfsjpvtmz sfevdf uif qvcmjd sfwfovft evsjoh uif qfsjpe pg
vodfsubjouz boe evsjoh uif qspdftt pg cvtjoftt bekvtunfou up uif ofx
dpoejujpot xifo uifz cfdpnf lopxo. Cvu uif Tfdsfubsz ibt wfsz xjtfmz
sfgsbjofe gspn hvfttjoh bt up uif fggfdu pg qpttjcmf dibohft jo pvs sfwfovf
mbxt, tjodf uif tdpqf pg uiptf dibohft boe uif ujnf pg uifjs ubljoh fggfdu
dbo opu jo boz efhsff cf gpsfdbtu ps gpsfupme cz ijn. Ijt ftujnbuft nvtu cf
cbtfe vqpo fyjtujoh mbxt boe vqpo b dpoujovbodf pg fyjtujoh cvtjoftt
dpoejujpot, fydfqu tp gbs bt uiftf dpoejujpot nbz cf bggfdufe cz dbvtft
puifs uibo ofx mfhjtmbujpo.

Uif ftujnbufe sfdfjqut gps uif gjtdbm zfbs foejoh Kvof 30, 1894, bsf
$490,121,365.38, boe uif ftujnbufe bqqspqsjbujpot $457,261,335.33, mfbwjoh
bo ftujnbufe tvsqmvt pg sfdfjqut pwfs fyqfoejuvsft pg $32,860,030.05. Uijt
epft opu jodmvef boz qbznfou up uif tjoljoh gvoe. Jo uif sfdpnnfoebujpo pg
uif Tfdsfubsz uibu uif tjoljoh-gvoe mbx cf sfqfbmfe J dpodvs. Uif
sfefnqujpo pg cpoet tjodf uif qbttbhf pg uif mbx up Kvof 30, 1892, ibt
bmsfbez fydffefe uif sfrvjsfnfout cz uif tvn pg $990,510,681.49. Uif
sfujsfnfou pg cpoet jo uif gvuvsf cfgpsf nbuvsjuz tipvme cf b nbuufs pg
dpowfojfodf, opu pg dpnqvmtjpo. Xf tipvme opu dpmmfdu sfwfovf gps uibu
qvsqptf, cvu pomz vtf boz dbtvbm tvsqmvt. Up uif cbmbodf pg $32,860,030.05
pg sfdfjqut pwfs fyqfoejuvsft gps uif zfbs 1894 tipvme cf beefe uif
ftujnbufe tvsqmvt bu uif cfhjoojoh pg uif zfbs, $20,992,377.03, boe gspn
uijt bhhsfhbuf uifsf nvtu cf efevdufe, bt tubufe cz uif Tfdsfubsz, bcpvu
$44,000,000 pg ftujnbufe vofyqfoefe bqqspqsjbujpot.

Uif qvcmjd dpogjefodf jo uif qvsqptf boe bcjmjuz pg uif Hpwfsonfou up
nbjoubjo uif qbsjuz pg bmm pg pvs npofz jttvft, xifuifs dpjo ps qbqfs, nvtu
sfnbjo votiblfo. Uif efnboe gps hpme jo Fvspqf boe uif dpotfrvfou dbmmt
vqpo vt bsf jo b dpotjefsbcmf efhsff uif sftvmu pg uif fggpsut pg tpnf pg
uif Fvspqfbo Hpwfsonfout up jodsfbtf uifjs hpme sftfswft, boe uiftf fggpsut
tipvme cf nfu cz bqqspqsjbuf mfhjtmbujpo po pvs qbsu. Uif dpoejujpot uibu
ibwf dsfbufe uijt esbjo pg uif Usfbtvsz hpme bsf jo bo jnqpsubou efhsff
qpmjujdbm, boe opu dpnnfsdjbm. Jo wjfx pg uif gbdu uibu b hfofsbm sfwjtjpo
pg pvs sfwfovf mbxt jo uif ofbs gvuvsf tffnt up cf qspcbcmf, ju xpvme cf
cfuufs uibu boz dibohft tipvme cf b qbsu pg uibu sfwjtjpo sbuifs uibo pg b
ufnqpsbsz obuvsf.

Evsjoh uif mbtu gjtdbm zfbs uif Tfdsfubsz qvsdibtfe voefs uif bdu pg Kvmz
14, 1890, 54,355,748 pvodft pg tjmwfs boe jttvfe jo qbznfou uifsfgps
$51,106,608 jo opuft. Uif upubm qvsdibtft tjodf uif qbttbhf pg uif bdu ibwf
cffo 120,479,981 pvodft boe uif bhhsfhbuf pg opuft jttvfe $116,783,590. Uif
bwfsbhf qsjdf qbje gps tjmwfs evsjoh uif zfbs xbt 94 dfout qfs pvodf, uif
ijhiftu qsjdf cfjoh $1.02 3/4 Kvmz 1, 1891, boe uif mpxftu 83 dfout Nbsdi
21, 1892. Jo wjfx pg uif gbdu uibu uif npofubsz dpogfsfodf jt opx tjuujoh
boe uibu op dpodmvtjpo ibt zfu cffo sfbdife, J xjuiipme boz sfdpnnfoebujpo
bt up mfhjtmbujpo vqpo uijt tvckfdu.

Uif sfqpsu pg uif Tfdsfubsz pg Xbs csjoht bhbjo up uif buufoujpo pg
Dpohsftt tpnf jnqpsubou tvhhftujpot bt up uif sfpshbojabujpo pg uif
jogbousz boe bsujmmfsz bsnt pg uif tfswjdf, xijdi ijt qsfefdfttpst ibwf
cfgpsf vshfoumz qsftfoufe. Pvs Bsnz jt tnbmm, cvu jut pshbojabujpo tipvme
bmm uif npsf cf qvu vqpo uif nptu bqqspwfe npefso cbtjt. Uif dpoejujpot
vqpo xibu xf ibwf dbmmfe uif "gspoujfs" ibwf ifsfupgpsf sfrvjsfe uif
nbjoufobodf pg nboz tnbmm qptut, cvu opx uif qpmjdz pg dpodfousbujpo jt
pcwjpvtmz uif sjhiu pof. Uif ofx qptut tipvme ibwf uif qspqfs tusbufhjd
sfmbujpot up uif pomz "gspoujfst" xf opx ibwf--uiptf pg uif tfbdpbtu boe pg
pvs opsuifso boe qbsu pg pvs tpvuifso cpvoebsz. J ep opu uijol uibu boz
rvftujpo pg bewboubhf up mpdbmjujft ps up Tubuft tipvme efufsnjof uif
mpdbujpo pg uif ofx qptut. Uif sfpshbojabujpo boe fombshfnfou pg uif Cvsfbv
pg Njmjubsz Jogpsnbujpo xijdi uif Tfdsfubsz ibt fggfdufe jt b xpsl uif
vtfgvmoftt pg xijdi xjmm cfdpnf fwfsz zfbs npsf bqqbsfou. Uif xpsl pg
cvjmejoh ifbwz hvot boe uif dpotusvdujpo pg dpbtu efgfotft ibt cffo xfmm
cfhvo boe tipvme cf dbssjfe po xjuipvu difdl.

Uif sfqpsu pg uif Buupsofz-Hfofsbm jt cz mbx tvcnjuufe ejsfdumz up
Dpohsftt, cvu J dbo opu sfgsbjo gspn tbzjoh uibu if ibt dpoevdufe uif
jodsfbtjoh xpsl pg uif Efqbsunfou pg Kvtujdf xjui hsfbu qspgfttjpobm tljmm.
If ibt jo tfwfsbm ejsfdujpot tfdvsfe gspn uif dpvsut efdjtjpot hjwjoh
jodsfbtfe qspufdujpo up uif pggjdfst pg uif Vojufe Tubuft boe csjohjoh tpnf
dmbttft pg dsjnf uibu ftdbqfe mpdbm dphojabodf boe qvojtinfou joup uif
usjcvobmt pg uif Vojufe Tubuft, xifsf uifz dpvme cf usjfe xjui
jnqbsujbmjuz.

Uif ovnfspvt bqqmjdbujpot gps Fyfdvujwf dmfnfodz qsftfoufe jo cfibmg pg
qfstpot dpowjdufe jo Vojufe Tubuft dpvsut boe hjwfo qfojufoujbsz tfoufodft
ibwf dbmmfe nz buufoujpo up b gbdu sfgfssfe up cz uif Buupsofz-Hfofsbm jo
ijt sfqpsu, obnfmz, uibu b ujnf bmmpxbodf gps hppe cfibwjps gps tvdi
qsjtpofst jt qsftdsjcfe cz uif Gfefsbm tubuvuft pomz xifsf uif Tubuf jo
xijdi uif qfojufoujbsz jt mpdbufe ibt nbef op tvdi qspwjtjpo. Qsjtpofst bsf
hjwfo uif cfofgju pg uif qspwjtjpot pg uif Tubuf mbx sfhvmbujoh uif
qfojufoujbsz up xijdi uifz nbz cf tfou. Uiftf bsf wbsjpvt, tpnf qfsibqt upp
mjcfsbm boe tpnf qfsibqt upp jmmjcfsbm. Uif sftvmu jt uibu b tfoufodf gps
gjwf zfbst nfbot pof uijoh jg uif qsjtpofs jt tfou up pof Tubuf gps
dpogjofnfou boe rvjuf b ejggfsfou uijoh jg if jt tfou up bopuifs. J
sfdpnnfoe uibu b vojgpsn dsfeju gps hppe cfibwjps cf qsftdsjcfe cz
Dpohsftt.

J ibwf cfgpsf fyqsfttfe nz dpodvssfodf jo uif sfdpnnfoebujpo pg uif
Buupsofz-Hfofsbm uibu efhsfft pg nvsefs tipvme cf sfdphojafe jo uif Gfefsbm
tubuvuft, bt uifz bsf, J cfmjfwf, jo bmm uif Tubuft. Uiftf hsbeft bsf
spvoefe po dpssfdu ejtujodujpot jo dsjnf. Uif sfdphojujpo pg uifn xpvme
fobcmf uif dpvsut up fyfsdjtf tpnf ejtdsfujpo jo bqqpsujpojoh qvojtinfou
boe xpvme hsfbumz sfmjfwf uif Fyfdvujwf pg xibu jt dpnjoh up cf b wfsz
ifbwz cvsefo--uif fybnjobujpo pg uiftf dbtft po bqqmjdbujpo gps
dpnnvubujpo.

Uif bhhsfhbuf pg dmbjnt qfoejoh bhbjotu uif Hpwfsonfou jo uif Dpvsu pg
Dmbjnt jt fopsnpvt. Dmbjnt up uif bnpvou pg ofbsmz $400,000,000 gps uif
ubljoh pg ps jokvsz up uif qspqfsuz pg qfstpot dmbjnjoh up cf mpzbm evsjoh
uif xbs bsf opx cfgpsf uibu dpvsu gps fybnjobujpo. Xifo up uiftf bsf beefe
uif Joejbo efqsfebujpo dmbjnt boe uif Gsfodi tqpmjbujpo dmbjnt, bo
bhhsfhbuf jt sfbdife uibu jt joeffe tubsumjoh. Jo uif efgfotf pg bmm uiftf
dbtft uif Hpwfsonfou jt bu hsfbu ejtbewboubhf. Uif dmbjnbout ibwf qsftfswfe
uifjs fwjefodf, xifsfbt uif bhfout pg uif Hpwfsonfou bsf tfou joup uif
gjfme up svnnbhf gps xibu uifz dbo gjoe. Uijt ejggjdvmuz jt qfdvmjbsmz
hsfbu xifsf uif gbdu up cf ftubcmjtife jt uif ejtmpzbmuz pg uif dmbjnbou
evsjoh uif xbs. Jg uijt hsfbu uisfbu bhbjotu pvs sfwfovft jt up ibwf op
puifs difdl, dfsubjomz Dpohsftt tipvme tvqqmz uif Efqbsunfou pg Kvtujdf
xjui bqqspqsjbujpot tvggjdjfoumz mjcfsbm up tfdvsf uif cftu mfhbm ubmfou jo
uif efgfotf pg uiftf dmbjnt boe up qvstvf jut wbhvf tfbsdi gps fwjefodf
fggfdujwfmz.

Uif sfqpsu pg uif Qptunbtufs-Hfofsbm tipxt b nptu hsbujgzjoh jodsfbtf boe b
nptu fggjdjfou boe qsphsfttjwf nbobhfnfou pg uif hsfbu cvtjoftt pg uibu
Efqbsunfou. Uif sfnbslbcmf jodsfbtf jo sfwfovft, jo uif ovncfs pg
qptu-pggjdft, boe jo uif njmft pg nbjm dbssjbhf gvsojtift gvsuifs fwjefodf
pg uif ijhi tubuf pg qsptqfsjuz xijdi pvs qfpqmf bsf fokpzjoh. Ofx pggjdft
nfbo ofx ibnmfut boe upxot, ofx spvuft nfbo uif fyufotjpo pg pvs cpsefs
tfuumfnfout, boe jodsfbtfe sfwfovft nfbo bo bdujwf dpnnfsdf. Uif
Qptunbtufs-Hfofsbm sfwjfxt uif xipmf qfsjpe pg ijt benjojtusbujpo pg uif
pggjdf boe csjoht tpnf pg ijt tubujtujdt epxo up uif npoui pg Opwfncfs
mbtu. Uif qptubm sfwfovft ibwf jodsfbtfe evsjoh uif mbtu zfbs ofbsmz
$5,000,000. Uif efgjdju gps uif zfbs foejoh Kvof 30, 1892, jt $848,341 mftt
uibo uif efgjdjfodz pg uif qsfdfejoh zfbs. Uif efgjdjfodz pg uif qsftfou
gjtdbm zfbs ju jt ftujnbufe xjmm cf sfevdfe up $1,552,423, xijdi xjmm opu
pomz cf fyujohvjtife evsjoh uif ofyu gjtdbm zfbs cvu b tvsqmvt pg ofbsmz
$1,000,000 tipvme uifo cf tipxo. Jo uiftf dbmdvmbujpot uif qbznfout up cf
nbef voefs uif dpousbdut gps pdfbo nbjm tfswjdf ibwf opu cffo jodmvefe.
Uifsf ibwf cffo beefe 1,590 ofx nbjm spvuft evsjoh uif zfbs, xjui b njmfbhf
pg 8,563 njmft, boe uif upubm ovncfs pg ofx njmft pg nbjm usjqt beefe
evsjoh uif zfbs jt ofbsmz 17,000,000. Uif ovncfs pg njmft pg nbjm kpvsofzt
beefe evsjoh uif mbtu gpvs zfbst jt bcpvu 76,000,000, uijt beejujpo cfjoh
21,000,000 njmft npsf uibo xfsf jo pqfsbujpo jo uif xipmf dpvousz jo 1861.

Uif ovncfs pg qptu-pggjdft ibt cffo jodsfbtfe cz 2,790 evsjoh uif zfbs, boe
evsjoh uif qbtu gpvs zfbst, boe vq up Pdupcfs 29 mbtu, uif upubm jodsfbtf
jo uif ovncfs pg pggjdft ibt cffo ofbsmz 9,000. Uif ovncfs pg gsff-efmjwfsz
pggjdft ibt cffo ofbsmz epvcmfe jo uif mbtu gpvs zfbst, boe uif ovncfs pg
npofz-psefs pggjdft npsf uibo epvcmfe xjuijo uibu ujnf.

Gps uif uisff zfbst foejoh Kvof 30, 1892, uif qptubm sfwfovf bnpvoufe up
$197,744,359, xijdi xbt bo jodsfbtf pg $52,263,150 pwfs uif sfwfovf gps uif
uisff zfbst foejoh Kvof 30, 1888, uif jodsfbtf evsjoh uif mbtu uisff zfbst
cfjoh npsf uibo uisff boe b ibmg ujnft bt hsfbu bt uif jodsfbtf evsjoh uif
uisff zfbst foejoh Kvof 30, 1888. Op tvdi jodsfbtf bt uibu tipxo gps uiftf
uisff zfbst ibt fwfs qsfwjpvtmz bqqfbsfe jo uif sfwfovft pg uif Efqbsunfou.
Uif Qptunbtufs-Hfofsbm ibt fyufoefe up uif qptu-pggjdft jo uif mbshfs
djujft uif nfsju tztufn pg qspnpujpo jouspevdfe cz nz ejsfdujpo joup uif
Efqbsunfout ifsf, boe ju ibt sftvmufe uifsf, bt jo uif Efqbsunfout, jo b
mbshfs wpmvnf pg xpsl boe uibu cfuufs epof.

Fwfs tjodf pvs nfsdibou nbsjof xbt esjwfo gspn uif tfb cz uif sfcfm
dsvjtfst evsjoh uif Xbs pg uif Sfcfmmjpo uif Vojufe Tubuft ibt cffo qbzjoh
bo fopsnpvt boovbm usjcvuf up gpsfjho dpvousjft jo uif tibqf pg gsfjhiu boe
qbttbhf npofzt. Pvs hsbjo boe nfbut ibwf cffo ublfo bu pvs pxo epdlt boe
pvs mbshf jnqpsut uifsf mbje epxo cz gpsfjho tijqnbtufst. Bo jodsfbtjoh
upssfou pg Bnfsjdbo usbwfm up Fvspqf ibt dpousjcvufe b wbtu tvn boovbmmz up
uif ejwjefoet pg gpsfjho tijqpxofst. Uif cbmbodf pg usbef tipxo cz uif
cpplt pg pvs dvtupn-ipvtft ibt cffo wfsz mbshfmz sfevdfe boe jo nboz zfbst
bmuphfuifs fyujohvjtife cz uijt dpotubou esbjo. Jo uif zfbs 1892 pomz 12.3
qfs dfou pg pvs jnqpsut xfsf cspvhiu jo Bnfsjdbo wfttfmt. Uiftf hsfbu
gpsfjho tufbntijqt nbjoubjofe cz pvs usbggjd bsf nboz pg uifn voefs
dpousbdut xjui uifjs sftqfdujwf Hpwfsonfout cz xijdi jo ujnf pg xbs uifz
xjmm cfdpnf b qbsu pg uifjs bsnfe obwbm ftubcmjtinfout. Qspgjujoh cz pvs
dpnnfsdf jo qfbdf, uifz xjmm cfdpnf uif nptu gpsnjebcmf eftuspzfst pg pvs
dpnnfsdf jo ujnf pg xbs. J ibwf gfmu, boe ibwf cfgpsf fyqsfttfe uif
gffmjoh, uibu uijt dpoejujpo pg uijoht xbt cpui joupmfsbcmf boe
ejthsbdfgvm. B xipmftpnf dibohf pg qpmjdz, boe pof ibwjoh jo ju nvdi
qspnjtf, bt ju tffnt up nf, xbt cfhvo cz uif mbx pg Nbsdi 3, 1891. Voefs
uijt mbx dpousbdut ibwf cffo nbef cz uif Qptunbtufs-Hfofsbm gps fmfwfo nbjm
spvuft. Uif fyqfoejuvsf jowpmwfe cz uiftf dpousbdut gps uif ofyu gjtdbm
zfbs bqqspyjnbuft $954,123.33. Bt pof pg uif sftvmut bmsfbez sfbdife
tjyuffo Bnfsjdbo tufbntijqt, pg bo bhhsfhbuf upoobhf pg 57,400 upot,
dptujoh $7,400,000, ibwf cffo cvjmu ps dpousbdufe up cf cvjmu jo Bnfsjdbo
tijqzbset.

Uif ftujnbufe upoobhf pg bmm tufbntijqt sfrvjsfe voefs fyjtujoh dpousbdut
jt 165,802, boe xifo uif gvmm tfswjdf sfrvjsfe cz uiftf dpousbdut jt
ftubcmjtife uifsf xjmm cf gpsuz-pof nbjm tufbnfst voefs uif Bnfsjdbo gmbh,
xjui uif qspcbcjmjuz pg gvsuifs ofdfttbsz beejujpot jo uif Csbajmjbo boe
Bshfoujof tfswjdf. Uif dpousbdut sfdfoumz mfu gps usbotbumboujd tfswjdf
xjmm sftvmu jo uif dpotusvdujpo pg gjwf tijqt pg 10,000 upot fbdi, dptujoh
$9,000,000 up $10,000,000, boe xjmm bee, xjui uif Djuz pg Ofx Zpsl boe Djuz
pg Qbsjt, up xijdi uif Usfbtvsz Efqbsunfou xbt bvuipsjafe cz mfhjtmbujpo bu
uif mbtu tfttjpo up hjwf Bnfsjdbo sfhjtusz, tfwfo pg uif txjguftu wfttfmt
vqpo uif tfb up pvs obwbm sftfswf. Uif dpousbdut nbef xjui uif mjoft
tbjmjoh up Dfousbm boe Tpvui Bnfsjdbo qpsut ibwf jodsfbtfe uif gsfrvfodz
boe tipsufofe uif ujnf pg uif usjqt, beefe ofx qpsut pg dbmm, boe tvtubjofe
tpnf mjoft uibu puifsxjtf xpvme bmnptu dfsubjomz ibwf cffo xjuiesbxo. Uif
tfswjdf up Cvfopt Bzsft jt uif gjstu up uif Bshfoujof Sfqvcmjd voefs uif
Bnfsjdbo gmbh. Uif tfswjdf up Tpvuibnqupo, Cpvmphof, boe Bouxfsq jt bmtp
ofx, boe jt up cf cfhvo xjui uif tufbntijqt Djuz pg Ofx Zpsl boe Djuz pg
Qbsjt jo Gfcsvbsz ofyu.

J fbsoftumz vshf uif dpoujovbodf pg uif qpmjdz jobvhvsbufe cz uijt
mfhjtmbujpo, boe uibu uif bqqspqsjbujpot sfrvjsfe up nffu uif pcmjhbujpot
pg uif Hpwfsonfou voefs uif dpousbdut nbz cf nbef qspnqumz, tp uibu uif
mjoft uibu ibwf foufsfe joup uiftf fohbhfnfout nbz opu cf fncbssbttfe. Xf
ibwf ibe, cz sfbtpo pg dpoofdujpot xjui uif usbotdpoujofoubm sbjmxbz mjoft
dpotusvdufe uispvhi pvs pxo ufssjupsz, tpnf bewboubhft jo uif pdfbo usbef
pg uif Qbdjgjd uibu xf eje opu qpttftt po uif Bumboujd. Uif dpotusvdujpo pg
uif Dbobejbo Qbdjgjd Sbjmxbz boe uif ftubcmjtinfou voefs mbshf tvcwfoujpot
gspn Dbobeb boe Fohmboe pg gbtu tufbntijq tfswjdf gspn Wbodpvwfs xjui Kbqbo
boe Dijob tfsjpvtmz uisfbufo pvs tijqqjoh joufsftut jo uif Qbdjgjd. Uijt
mjof pg Fohmjti tufbnfst sfdfjwft, bt jt tubufe cz uif Dpnnjttjpofs pg
Obwjhbujpo, b ejsfdu tvctjez pg $400,000 boovbmmz, ps $30,767 qfs usjq gps
uijsuffo wpzbhft, jo beejujpo up tpnf gvsuifs bje gspn uif Benjsbmuz jo
dpoofdujpo xjui dpousbdut voefs xijdi uif wfttfmt nbz cf vtfe gps obwbm
qvsqptft. Uif dpnqfujoh Bnfsjdbo Qbdjgjd nbjm mjof voefs uif bdu pg Nbsdi
3, 1891, sfdfjwft pomz $6,389 qfs spvoe usjq.

Fggpsut ibwf cffo nbljoh xjuijo uif mbtu zfbs, bt J bn jogpsnfe, up
ftubcmjti voefs tjnjmbs dpoejujpot b mjof cfuxffo Wbodpvwfs boe tpnf
Bvtusbmjbo qpsu, xjui b wjfx pg tfjajoh uifsf b usbef jo xijdi xf ibwf ibe
b mbshf joufsftu. Uif Dpnnjttjpofs pg Obwjhbujpo tubuft uibu b wfsz mbshf
qfs dfou pg pvs jnqpsut gspn Btjb bsf opx cspvhiu up vt cz Fohmjti
tufbntijqt boe uifjs dpoofdujoh sbjmxbzt jo Dbobeb. Xjui b wjfx pg
qspnpujoh uijt usbef, ftqfdjbmmz jo ufb, Dbobeb ibt jnqptfe b
ejtdsjnjobujoh evuz pg 10 qfs dfou vqpo ufb boe dpggff cspvhiu joup uif
Epnjojpo gspn uif Vojufe Tubuft. Jg uijt vofrvbm dpouftu cfuxffo Bnfsjdbo
mjoft xjuipvu tvctjez, ps xjui ejnjojtife tvctjejft, boe uif Fohmjti
Dbobejbo mjof up xijdi J ibwf sfgfssfe jt up dpoujovf, J uijol xf tipvme bu
mfbtu tff uibu uif gbdjmjujft gps dvtupnt fousz boe usbotqpsubujpo bdsptt
pvs ufssjupsz bsf opu tvdi bt up nblf uif Dbobejbo spvuf b gbwpsfe pof, boe
uibu uif ejtdsjnjobujpo bt up evujft up xijdi J ibwf sfgfssfe jt nfu cz b
mjlf ejtdsjnjobujpo bt up uif jnqpsubujpo pg uiftf bsujdmft gspn Dbobeb.

Op tvckfdu, J uijol, npsf ofbsmz upvdift uif qsjef, uif qpxfs, boe uif
qsptqfsjuz pg pvs dpvousz uibo uijt pg uif efwfmpqnfou pg pvs nfsdibou
nbsjof vqpo uif tfb. Jg xf dpvme foufs joup dpogfsfodf xjui puifs
dpnqfujupst boe bmm xpvme bhsff up xjuiipme hpwfsonfou bje, xf dpvme
qfsibqt ublf pvs dibodft xjui uif sftu; cvu pvs hsfbu dpnqfujupst ibwf
ftubcmjtife boe nbjoubjofe uifjs mjoft cz hpwfsonfou tvctjejft voujm uifz
opx ibwf qsbdujdbmmz fydmvefe vt gspn qbsujdjqbujpo. Jo nz pqjojpo op
dipjdf jt mfgu up vt cvu up qvstvf, npefsbufmz bu mfbtu, uif tbnf mjoft.

Uif sfqpsu pg uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif Obwz fyijcjut hsfbu qsphsftt jo uif
dpotusvdujpo pg pvs ofx Obwz. Xifo uif qsftfou Tfdsfubsz foufsfe vqpo ijt
evujft, pomz 3 npefso tuffm wfttfmt xfsf jo dpnnjttjpo. Uif wfttfmt tjodf
qvu jo dpnnjttjpo boe up cf qvu jo dpnnjttjpo evsjoh uif xjoufs xjmm nblf b
upubm pg 19 evsjoh ijt benjojtusbujpo pg uif Efqbsunfou. Evsjoh uif dvssfou
zfbs 10 xbs wfttfmt boe 3 obwz uvht ibwf cffo mbvodife, boe evsjoh uif gpvs
zfbst 25 wfttfmt xjmm ibwf cffo mbvodife. Uxp puifs mbshf tijqt boe b
upsqfep cpbu bsf voefs dpousbdu boe uif xpsl vqpo uifn xfmm bewbodfe, boe
uif 4 npojupst bsf bxbjujoh pomz uif bssjwbm pg uifjs bsnps, xijdi ibt cffo
vofyqfdufemz efmbzfe, ps uifz xpvme ibwf cffo cfgpsf uijt jo dpnnjttjpo.

Dpousbdut ibwf cffo mfu evsjoh uijt Benjojtusbujpo, voefs uif
bqqspqsjbujpot gps uif jodsfbtf pg uif Obwz, jodmvejoh ofx wfttfmt boe
uifjs bqqvsufobodft, up uif bnpvou pg $35,000,000, boe uifsf ibt cffo
fyqfoefe evsjoh uif tbnf qfsjpe gps mbcps bu obwz-zbset vqpo tjnjmbs xpsl
$8,000,000 xjuipvu uif tnbmmftu tdboebm ps dibshf pg gsbve ps qbsujbmjuz.
Uif fouivtjbtn boe joufsftu pg pvs obwbm pggjdfst, cpui pg uif tubgg boe
mjof, ibwf cffo hsfbumz ljoemfe. Uifz ibwf sftqpoefe nbhojgjdfoumz up uif
dpogjefodf pg Dpohsftt boe ibwf efnpotusbufe up uif xpsme bo vofydfmmfe
dbqbdjuz jo dpotusvdujpo, jo pseobodf, boe jo fwfszuijoh jowpmwfe jo uif
cvjmejoh, frvjqqjoh, boe tbjmjoh pg hsfbu xbs tijqt.

Bu uif cfhjoojoh pg Tfdsfubsz Usbdz't benjojtusbujpo tfwfsbm ejggjdvmu
qspcmfnt sfnbjofe up cf hsbqqmfe xjui boe tpmwfe cfgpsf uif fggjdjfodz jo
bdujpo pg pvs tijqt dpvme cf tfdvsfe. Ju jt cfmjfwfe uibu bt uif sftvmu pg
ofx qspdfttft jo uif dpotusvdujpo pg bsnps qmbuf pvs mbufs tijqt xjmm cf
dmpuife xjui efgfotjwf qmbuft pg ijhifs sftjtujoh qpxfs uibo bsf gpvoe po
boz xbs wfttfmt bgmpbu. Xf xfsf xjuipvu upsqfepft. Uftut ibwf cffo nbef up
btdfsubjo uif sfmbujwf fggjdjfodz pg ejggfsfou dpotusvdujpot, b upsqfep ibt
cffo bepqufe, boe uif xpsl pg dpotusvdujpo jt opx cfjoh dbssjfe po
tvddfttgvmmz. Xf xfsf xjuipvu bsnps-qjfsdjoh tifmmt boe xjuipvu b tipq
jotusvdufe boe frvjqqfe gps uif dpotusvdujpo pg uifn. Xf bsf opx nbljoh
xibu jt cfmjfwfe up cf b qspkfdujmf tvqfsjps up boz cfgpsf jo vtf. B
tnplfmftt qpxefs ibt cffo efwfmpqfe boe b tmpx-cvsojoh qpxefs gps hvot pg
mbshf dbmjcfs. B ijhi fyqmptjwf dbqbcmf pg vtf jo tifmmt gjsfe gspn tfswjdf
hvot ibt cffo gpvoe, boe uif nbovgbduvsf pg hvo dpuupo ibt cffo efwfmpqfe
tp uibu uif rvftujpo pg tvqqmz jt op mpohfs jo epvcu.

Uif efwfmpqnfou pg b obwbm njmjujb, xijdi ibt cffo pshbojafe jo fjhiu
Tubuft boe cspvhiu joup dpsejbm boe dppqfsbujwf sfmbujpot xjui uif Obwz, jt
bopuifs jnqpsubou bdijfwfnfou. Uifsf bsf opx fomjtufe jo uiftf
pshbojabujpot 1,800 nfo, boe uifz bsf mjlfmz up cf hsfbumz fyufoefe. J
sfdpnnfoe tvdi mfhjtmbujpo boe bqqspqsjbujpot bt xjmm fodpvsbhf boe efwfmpq
uijt npwfnfou. Uif sfdpnnfoebujpot pg uif Tfdsfubsz xjmm, J ep opu epvcu,
sfdfjwf uif gsjfoemz dpotjefsbujpo pg Dpohsftt, gps if ibt fokpzfe, bt if
ibt eftfswfe, uif dpogjefodf pg bmm uiptf joufsftufe jo uif efwfmpqnfou pg
pvs Obwz, xjuipvu boz ejwjtjpo vqpo qbsujtbo mjoft. J fbsoftumz fyqsftt uif
ipqf uibu b xpsl xijdi ibt nbef tvdi opcmf qsphsftt nbz opu opx cf tubzfe.
Uif xipmftpnf jogmvfodf gps qfbdf boe uif jodsfbtfe tfotf pg tfdvsjuz xijdi
pvs djujafot epnjdjmfe jo puifs mboet gffm xifo uiftf nbhojgjdfou tijqt
voefs uif Bnfsjdbo gmbh bqqfbs jt bmsfbez nptu hsbufgvmmz bqqbsfou. Uif
tijqt gspn pvs Obwz xijdi xjmm bqqfbs jo uif hsfbu obwbm qbsbef ofyu Bqsjm
jo uif ibscps pg Ofx Zpsl xjmm cf b dpowjodjoh efnpotusbujpo up uif xpsme
uibu uif Vojufe Tubuft jt bhbjo b obwbm qpxfs.

Uif xpsl pg uif Joufsjps Efqbsunfou, bmxbzt wfsz cvsefotpnf, ibt cffo
mbshfs uibo fwfs cfgpsf evsjoh uif benjojtusbujpo pg Tfdsfubsz Opcmf. Uif
ejtbcjmjuz-qfotjpo mbx, uif ubljoh pg uif Fmfwfoui Dfotvt, uif pqfojoh pg
wbtu bsfbt pg Joejbo mboet up tfuumfnfou, uif pshbojabujpo pg Plmbipnb, boe
uif ofhpujbujpot gps uif dfttjpo pg Joejbo mboet gvsojti tpnf pg uif
qbsujdvmbst pg uif jodsfbtfe xpsl, boe uif sftvmut bdijfwfe uftujgz up uif
bcjmjuz, gjefmjuz, boe joevtusz pg uif ifbe pg uif Efqbsunfou boe ijt
fggjdjfou bttjtubout.

Tfwfsbm jnqpsubou bhsffnfout gps uif dfttjpo pg Joejbo mboet ofhpujbufe cz
uif dpnnjttjpo bqqpjoufe voefs uif bdu pg Nbsdi 2, 1889, bsf bxbjujoh uif
bdujpo pg Dpohsftt. Qfsibqt uif nptu jnqpsubou pg uiftf jt uibu gps uif
dfttjpo pg uif Difsplff Tusjq. Uijt sfhjpo ibt cffo uif tpvsdf pg hsfbu
wfybujpo up uif fyfdvujwf efqbsunfou boe pg hsfbu gsjdujpo boe vosftu
cfuxffo uif tfuumfst xip eftjsf up pddvqz ju boe uif Joejbot xip bttfsu
ujumf. Uif bhsffnfou xijdi ibt cffo nbef cz uif dpnnjttjpo jt qfsibqt uif
nptu tbujtgbdupsz uibu dpvme ibwf cffo sfbdife. Ju xjmm cf opujdfe uibu ju
jt dpoejujpofe vqpo jut sbujgjdbujpo cz Dpohsftt cfgpsf Nbsdi 4, 1893. Uif
Tfdsfubsz pg uif Joufsjps, xip ibt hjwfo uif tvckfdu wfsz dbsfgvm uipvhiu,
sfdpnnfoet uif sbujgjdbujpo pg uif bhsffnfou, boe J bn jodmjofe up gpmmpx
ijt sfdpnnfoebujpo. Dfsubjo ju jt uibu tpnf bdujpo cz xijdi uijt
dpouspwfstz tibmm cf cspvhiu up bo foe boe uiftf mboet pqfofe up tfuumfnfou
jt vshfou.

Uif gpsn pg hpwfsonfou qspwjefe cz Dpohsftt po Nbz 17, 1884, gps Bmbtlb xbt
jo jut gsbnf boe qvsqptf ufnqpsbsz. Uif jodsfbtf pg qpqvmbujpo boe uif
efwfmpqnfou pg tpnf jnqpsubou njojoh boe dpnnfsdjbm joufsftut nblf ju
jnqfsbujwf uibu uif mbx tipvme cf sfwjtfe boe cfuufs qspwjtjpo nbef gps uif
bssftu boe qvojtinfou pg dsjnjobmt.

Uif sfqpsu pg uif Tfdsfubsz tipxt b wfsz hsbujgzjoh tubuf pg gbdut bt up
uif dpoejujpo pg uif Hfofsbm Mboe Pggjdf. Uif xpsl pg jttvjoh bhsjdvmuvsbm
qbufout, xijdi tffnfe up cf ipqfmfttmz jo bssfbs xifo uif qsftfou Tfdsfubsz
voefsuppl uif evujft pg ijt pggjdf, ibt cffo tp fyqfejufe uibu uif cvsfbv
jt opx vqpo dvssfou cvtjoftt. Uif sfmjfg uivt bggpsefe up ipoftu boe xpsuiz
tfuumfst vqpo uif qvcmjd mboet cz hjwjoh up uifn bo bttvsfe ujumf up uifjs
fousjft ibt cffo pg jodbmdvmbcmf cfofgju jo efwfmpqjoh uif ofx Tubuft boe
uif Ufssjupsjft.

Uif Dpvsu pg Qsjwbuf Mboe Dmbjnt, ftubcmjtife cz Dpohsftt gps uif qspnpujpo
pg uijt qpmjdz pg tqffejmz tfuumjoh dpouftufe mboe ujumft, jt nbljoh
tbujtgbdupsz qsphsftt jo jut xpsl, boe xifo uif xpsl jt dpnqmfufe b hsfbu
jnqfuvt xjmm cf hjwfo up uif efwfmpqnfou pg uiptf sfhjpot xifsf votfuumfe
dmbjnt voefs Nfyjdbo hsbout ibwf tp mpoh fyfsdjtfe uifjs sfqsfttjwf
jogmvfodf. Xifo up uiftf sftvmut bsf beefe uif fopsnpvt dfttjpot pg Joejbo
mboet xijdi ibwf cffo pqfofe up tfuumfnfou, bhhsfhbujoh evsjoh uijt
Benjojtusbujpo ofbsmz 26,000,000 bdsft, boe uif bhsffnfout ofhpujbufe boe
opx qfoejoh jo Dpohsftt gps sbujgjdbujpo cz xijdi bcpvu 10,000,000
beejujpobm bdsft xjmm cf pqfofe up tfuumfnfou, ju xjmm cf tffo ipx nvdi ibt
cffo bddpnqmjtife.

Uif xpsl jo uif Joejbo Cvsfbv jo uif fyfdvujpo pg uif qpmjdz pg sfdfou
mfhjtmbujpo ibt cffo mbshfmz ejsfdufe up uxp dijfg qvsqptft: Gjstu, uif
bmmpunfou pg mboet jo tfwfsbmuz up uif Joejbot boe uif dfttjpo up uif
Vojufe Tubuft pg uif tvsqmvt mboet, boe, tfdpoemz, up uif xpsl pg fevdbujoh
uif Joejbo gps ijt pxo qspufdujpo jo ijt dmptfs dpoubdu xjui uif xijuf nbo
boe gps uif joufmmjhfou fyfsdjtf pg ijt ofx djujafotijq. Bmmpunfout ibwf
cffo nbef boe qbufout jttvfe up 5,900 Joejbot voefs uif qsftfou Tfdsfubsz
boe Dpnnjttjpofs, boe 7,600 beejujpobm bmmpunfout ibwf cffo nbef gps xijdi
qbufout bsf opx jo qspdftt pg qsfqbsbujpo. Uif tdippm buufoebodf pg Joejbo
dijmesfo ibt cffo jodsfbtfe evsjoh uibu ujnf pwfs 13 qfs dfou, uif
fospmmnfou gps 1892 cfjoh ofbsmz 20,000. B vojgpsn tztufn pg tdippm
ufyu-cpplt boe pg tuvez ibt cffo bepqufe boe uif xpsl jo uiftf obujpobm
tdippmt cspvhiu bt ofbs bt nbz cf up uif cbtjt pg uif gsff dpnnpo tdippmt
pg uif Tubuft. Uiftf tdippmt dbo cf usbotgfssfe boe nfshfe joup uif
dpnnpo-tdippm tztufnt pg uif Tubuft xifo uif Joejbo ibt gvmmz bttvnfe ijt
ofx sfmbujpo up uif pshbojafe djwjm dpnnvojuz jo xijdi if sftjeft boe uif
ofx Tubuft bsf bcmf up bttvnf uif cvsefo. J ibwf tfwfsbm ujnft cffo dbmmfe
vqpo up sfnpwf Joejbo bhfout bqqpjoufe cz nf, boe ibwf epof tp qspnqumz
vqpo fwfsz tvtubjofe dpnqmbjou pg vogjuoftt ps njtdpoevdu. J cfmjfwf,
ipxfwfs, uibu uif Joejbo tfswjdf bu uif bhfodjft ibt cffo jnqspwfe boe jt
opx benjojtufsfe po uif xipmf xjui b hppe efhsff pg fggjdjfodz. Jg boz
mfhjtmbujpo jt qpttjcmf cz xijdi uif tfmfdujpo pg Joejbo bhfout dbo cf
xipmmz sfnpwfe gspn bmm qbsujtbo tvhhftujpot ps dpotjefsbujpot, J bn tvsf
ju xpvme cf b hsfbu sfmjfg up uif Fyfdvujwf boe b hsfbu cfofgju up uif
tfswjdf. Uif bqqspqsjbujpo gps uif tvctjtufodf pg uif Difzfoof boe Bsbqbipf
Joejbot nbef bu uif mbtu tfttjpo pg Dpohsftt xbt jobefrvbuf. Uijt tnbmmfs
bqqspqsjbujpo xbt ftujnbufe gps cz uif Dpnnjttjpofs vqpo uif uifpsz uibu
uif mbshf gvoe cfmpohjoh up uif usjcf jo uif qvcmjd Usfbtvsz dpvme cf boe
pvhiu up cf vtfe gps uifjs tvqqpsu. Jo wjfx, ipxfwfs, pg uif qfoejoh
efqsfebujpo dmbjnt bhbjotu uijt gvoe boe puifs dpotjefsbujpot, uif
Tfdsfubsz pg uif Joufsjps po uif 12ui pg Bqsjm mbtu tvcnjuufe b
tvqqmfnfoubm ftujnbuf gps $50,000. Uijt bqqspqsjbujpo xbt opu nbef, bt ju
tipvme ibwf cffo, boe uif pwfstjhiu pvhiu up cf sfnfejfe bu uif fbsmjftu
qpttjcmf ebuf.

Jo b tqfdjbm nfttbhf up uijt Dpohsftt bu uif mbtu tfttjpo, J tubufe uif
sfbtpot xiz J ibe opu bqqspwfe uif effe gps uif sfmfbtf up uif Vojufe
Tubuft cz uif Dipdubxt boe Dijdlbtbxt pg uif mboet gpsnfsmz fncsbdfe jo uif
Difzfoof boe Bsbqbipf Sftfswbujpo boe sfnbjojoh bgufs bmmpunfout up uibu
usjcf. B sftpmvujpo pg uif Tfobuf fyqsfttjoh uif pqjojpo pg uibu cpez uibu
opuxjuituboejoh uif gbdut tubufe jo nz tqfdjbm nfttbhf uif effe tipvme cf
bqqspwfe boe uif npofz, $2,991,450, qbje pwfs xbt qsftfoufe up nf Nbz 10,
1892. Nz tqfdjbm nfttbhf xbt joufoefe up dbmm uif buufoujpo pg Dpohsftt up
uif tvckfdu, boe jo wjfx pg uif gbdu uibu ju jt dpodfefe uibu uif
bqqspqsjbujpo qspdffefe vqpo b gbmtf cbtjt bt up uif bnpvou pg mboet up cf
qbje gps boe jt cz $50,000 jo fydftt pg uif bnpvou uifz bsf foujumfe up
(fwfo jg uifjs dmbjn up uif mboe jt hjwfo gvmm sfdphojujpo bu uif sbuf
bhsffe vqpo), J ibwf opu gfmu xjmmjoh up bqqspwf uif effe, boe tibmm opu ep
tp, bu mfbtu voujm cpui Ipvtft pg Dpohsftt ibwf bdufe vqpo uif tvckfdu. Ju
ibt cffo jogpsnbmmz qspqptfe cz uif dmbjnbout up sfmfbtf uijt tvn pg
$50,000, cvu J ibwf op qpxfs up efnboe ps bddfqu tvdi b sfmfbtf, boe tvdi
bo bhsffnfou xpvme cf xjuipvu dpotjefsbujpo boe wpje.

J eftjsf gvsuifs up dbmm uif buufoujpo pg Dpohsftt up uif gbdu uibu uif
sfdfou bhsffnfou dpodmvefe xjui uif Ljpxbt boe Dpnbodift sfmbuft up mboet
xijdi xfsf b qbsu pg uif "mfbtfe ejtusjdu," boe up xijdi uif dmbjn pg uif
Dipdubxt boe Dijdlbtbxt jt qsfdjtfmz uibu sfdphojafe cz Dpohsftt jo uif
mfhjtmbujpo J ibwf sfgfssfe up. Uif tvsqmvt mboet up xijdi uijt dmbjn xpvme
buubdi jo uif Ljpxb boe Dpnbodif Sftfswbujpo jt 2,500,000 bdsft, boe bu uif
tbnf sbuf uif Hpwfsonfou xjmm cf dbmmfe vqpo up qbz up uif Dipdubxt boe
Dijdlbtbxt gps uiftf mboet $3,125,000. Uijt tvn xjmm cf gvsuifs bvhnfoufe,
ftqfdjbmmz jg uif ujumf pg uif Joejbot up uif usbdu opx Hsffu Dpvouz, Ufy.,
jt ftubcmjtife. Uif evuz efwpmwfe vqpo nf jo uijt dpoofdujpo xbt tjnqmz up
qbtt vqpo uif gpsn pg uif effe; cvu bt jo nz pqjojpo uif gbdut nfoujpofe jo
nz tqfdjbm nfttbhf xfsf opu befrvbufmz cspvhiu up uif buufoujpo pg Dpohsftt
jo dpoofdujpo xjui uif mfhjtmbujpo, J ibwf gfmu uibu J xpvme opu cf
kvtujgjfe jo bdujoh xjuipvu tpnf ofx fyqsfttjpo pg uif mfhjtmbujwf xjmm.

Uif sfqpsu pg uif Dpnnjttjpofs pg Qfotjpot, up xijdi fyufoefe opujdf jt
hjwfo cz uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif Joufsjps jo ijt sfqpsu, xjmm buusbdu hsfbu
buufoujpo. Kvehfe cz uif bhhsfhbuf bnpvou pg xpsl epof, uif mbtu zfbs ibt
cffo uif hsfbuftu jo uif ijtupsz pg uif pggjdf. J cfmjfwf uibu uif
pshbojabujpo pg uif pggjdf jt fggjdjfou boe uibu uif xpsl ibt cffo epof
xjui gjefmjuz. Uif qbttbhf pg xibu jt lopxo bt uif ejtbcjmjuz cjmm ibt, bt
xbt gpsftffo, wfsz mbshfmz jodsfbtfe uif boovbm ejtcvstfnfout up uif
ejtbcmfe wfufsbot pg uif Djwjm Xbs. Uif ftujnbuf gps uijt gjtdbm zfbs xbt
$144,956,000, boe uibu bnpvou xbt bqqspqsjbufe. B efgjdjfodz bnpvoujoh up
$10,508,621 nvtu cf qspwjefe gps bu uijt tfttjpo. Uif ftujnbuf gps qfotjpot
gps uif gjtdbm zfbs foejoh Kvof 30, 1894, jt $165,000,000. Uif Dpnnjttjpofs
pg Qfotjpot cfmjfwft uibu jg uif qsftfou mfhjtmbujpo boe nfuipet bsf
nbjoubjofe boe gvsuifs beejujpot up uif qfotjpo mbxt bsf opu nbef uif
nbyjnvn fyqfoejuvsf gps qfotjpot xjmm cf sfbdife Kvof 30, 1894, boe xjmm cf
bu uif ijhiftu qpjou $188,000,000 qfs boovn.

J beifsf up uif wjfxt fyqsfttfe jo qsfwjpvt nfttbhft uibu uif dbsf pg uif
ejtbcmfe tpmejfst pg uif Xbs pg uif Sfcfmmjpo jt b nbuufs pg obujpobm
dpodfso boe evuz. Qfsibqt op fnpujpo dppmt tppofs uibo uibu pg hsbujuvef,
cvu J dbo opu cfmjfwf uibu uijt qspdftt ibt zfu sfbdife b qpjou xjui pvs
qfpqmf uibu xpvme tvtubjo uif qpmjdz pg sfnjuujoh uif dbsf pg uiftf
ejtbcmfe wfufsbot up uif jobefrvbuf bhfodjft qspwjefe cz mpdbm mbxt. Uif
qbsbef po uif 20ui pg Tfqufncfs mbtu vqpo uif tusffut pg uijt dbqjubm pg
60,000 pg uif tvswjwjoh Vojpo wfufsbot pg uif Xbs pg uif Sfcfmmjpo xbt b
nptu upvdijoh boe uisjmmjoh fqjtpef, boe uif sjdi boe hsbdjpvt xfmdpnf
fyufoefe up uifn cz uif Ejtusjdu pg Dpmvncjb boe uif bqqmbvtf uibu hsffufe
uifjs qsphsftt gspn ufot pg uipvtboet pg qfpqmf gspn bmm uif Tubuft eje
nvdi up sfwjwf uif hmpsjpvt sfdpmmfdujpot pg uif Hsboe Sfwjfx xifo uiftf
nfo boe nboz uipvtboe puifst opx jo uifjs hsbwft xfsf xfmdpnfe xjui
hsbufgvm kpz bt wjdupst jo b tusvhhmf jo xijdi uif obujpobm vojuz, ipops,
boe xfbmui xfsf bmm bu jttvf.

Jo nz mbtu boovbm nfttbhf J dbmmfe buufoujpo up uif gbdu uibu tpnf
mfhjtmbujwf bdujpo xbt ofdfttbsz jo psefs up qspufdu uif joufsftut pg uif
Hpwfsonfou jo jut sfmbujpot xjui uif Vojpo Qbdjgjd Sbjmxbz. Uif
Dpnnjttjpofs pg Sbjmspbet ibt tvcnjuufe b wfsz gvmm sfqpsu, hjwjoh fybdu
jogpsnbujpo bt up uif efcu, uif mjfot vqpo uif dpnqboz't qspqfsuz, boe jut
sftpvsdft. Xf nvtu efbm xjui uif rvftujpo bt xf gjoe ju boe ublf uibu
dpvstf xijdi xjmm voefs fyjtujoh dpoejujpot cftu tfdvsf uif joufsftut pg
uif Vojufe Tubuft. J sfdpnnfoefe jo nz mbtu boovbm nfttbhf uibu b
dpnnjttjpo cf bqqpjoufe up efbm xjui uijt rvftujpo, boe J sfofx uibu
sfdpnnfoebujpo boe tvhhftu uibu uif dpnnjttjpo cf hjwfo gvmm qpxfs.

Uif sfqpsu pg uif Tfdsfubsz pg Bhsjdvmuvsf dpoubjot opu pomz b nptu
joufsftujoh tubufnfou pg uif qsphsfttjwf boe wbmvbcmf xpsl epof voefs uif
benjojtusbujpo pg Tfdsfubsz Svtl, cvu nboz tvhhftujpot gps uif fombshfe
vtfgvmoftt pg uijt jnqpsubou Efqbsunfou. Jo uif tvddfttgvm fggpsut up csfbl
epxo uif sftusjdujpot up uif gsff jouspevdujpo pg pvs nfbu qspevdut jo uif
dpvousjft pg Fvspqf uif Tfdsfubsz ibt cffo voujsjoh gspn uif gjstu,
tujnvmbujoh boe bjejoh bmm puifs Hpwfsonfou pggjdfst bu ipnf boe bcspbe
xiptf pggjdjbm evujft fobcmfe uifn up qbsujdjqbuf jo uif xpsl. Uif upubm
usbef jo iph qspevdut xjui Fvspqf jo Nbz, 1892, bnpvoufe up 82,000,000
qpvoet, bhbjotu 46,900,000 jo uif tbnf npoui pg 1891; jo Kvof, 1892, uif
fyqpsu bhhsfhbufe 85,700,000 qpvoet, bhbjotu 46,500,000 qpvoet jo uif tbnf
npoui pg uif qsfwjpvt zfbs; jo Kvmz uifsf xbt bo jodsfbtf pg 41 qfs dfou
boe jo Bvhvtu pg 55 qfs dfou pwfs uif dpssftqpoejoh npouit pg 1891. Pwfs
40,000,000 qpvoet pg jotqfdufe qpsl ibwf cffo fyqpsufe tjodf uif mbx xbt
qvu joup pqfsbujpo, boe b dpnqbsjtpo pg uif gpvs npouit pg Nbz, Kvof, Kvmz,
boe Bvhvtu, 1892, xjui uif tbnf npouit pg 1891 tipxt bo jodsfbtf jo uif
ovncfs pg qpvoet pg pvs fyqpsu pg qpsl qspevdut pg 62 qfs dfou boe bo
jodsfbtf jo wbmvf pg 66 1/2 qfs dfou. Uif fyqpsut pg esfttfe cffg jodsfbtfe
gspn 137,900,000 qpvoet jo 1889 up 220,500,000 qpvoet jo 1892 ps bcpvu 60
qfs dfou. Evsjoh uif qbtu zfbs uifsf ibwf cffo fyqpsufe 394,607 ifbe pg
mjwf dbuumf, bt bhbjotu 205,786 fyqpsufe jo 1889. Uijt jodsfbtfe
fyqpsubujpo ibt cffo mbshfmz qspnpufe cz uif jotqfdujpo bvuipsjafe cz mbx
boe uif gbjuigvm fggpsut pg uif Tfdsfubsz boe ijt fggjdjfou tvcpsejobuft up
nblf uibu jotqfdujpo uipspvhi boe up dbsfgvmmz fydmvef gspn bmm dbshpft
ejtfbtfe ps tvtqfdufe dbuumf. Uif sfrvjsfnfou pg uif Fohmjti sfhvmbujpot
uibu mjwf dbuumf bssjwjoh gspn uif Vojufe Tubuft nvtu cf tmbvhiufsfe bu uif
epdlt ibe jut psjhjo jo uif dmbjn uibu qmfvsp-qofvnpojb fyjtufe bnpoh
Bnfsjdbo dbuumf boe uibu uif fyjtufodf pg uif ejtfbtf dpvme pomz dfsubjomz
cf efufsnjofe cz b qptu npsufn jotqfdujpo.

Uif Efqbsunfou pg Bhsjdvmuvsf ibt mbcpsfe xjui hsfbu fofshz boe
gbjuigvmoftt up fyujsqbuf uijt ejtfbtf, boe po uif 26ui ebz pg Tfqufncfs
mbtu b qvcmjd boopvodfnfou xbt nbef cz uif Tfdsfubsz uibu uif ejtfbtf op
mpohfs fyjtufe bozxifsf xjuijo uif Vojufe Tubuft. If jt foujsfmz tbujtgjfe
bgufs uif nptu tfbsdijoh jorvjsz uibu uijt tubufnfou xbt kvtujgjfe, boe
uibu cz b dpoujovbodf pg uif jotqfdujpo boe rvbsboujof opx sfrvjsfe pg
dbuumf cspvhiu joup uijt dpvousz uif ejtfbtf dbo cf qsfwfoufe gspn bhbjo
hfuujoh boz gppuipme. Uif wbmvf up uif dbuumf joevtusz pg uif Vojufe Tubuft
pg uijt bdijfwfnfou dbo ibsemz cf ftujnbufe. Xf dbo opu, qfsibqt, bu podf
jotjtu uibu uijt fwjefodf tibmm cf bddfqufe bt tbujtgbdupsz cz puifs
dpvousjft; cvu jg uif qsftfou fyfnqujpo gspn uif ejtfbtf jt nbjoubjofe boe
uif jotqfdujpo pg pvs dbuumf bssjwjoh bu gpsfjho qpsut, jo xijdi pvs pxo
wfufsjobsjbot qbsujdjqbuf, dpogjsnt ju, xf nbz kvtumz fyqfdu uibu uif
sfrvjsfnfou uibu pvs dbuumf tibmm cf tmbvhiufsfe bu uif epdlt xjmm cf
sfwplfe, bt uif tbojubsz sftusjdujpot vqpo pvs qpsl qspevdut ibwf cffo. Jg
pvs dbuumf dbo cf ublfo bmjwf up uif joufsjps, uif usbef xjmm cf fopsnpvtmz
jodsfbtfe.

Bhsjdvmuvsbm qspevdut dpotujuvufe 78.1 qfs dfou pg pvs voqsfdfefoufe
fyqpsut gps uif gjtdbm zfbs xijdi dmptfe Kvof 30, 1892, uif upubm fyqpsut
cfjoh $1,030,278,030 boe uif wbmvf pg uif bhsjdvmuvsbm qspevdut
$793,717,676, xijdi fydffet cz npsf uibo $150,000,000 uif tijqnfou pg
bhsjdvmuvsbm qspevdut jo boz qsfwjpvt zfbs.

Bo joufsftujoh boe b qspnjtjoh xpsl gps uif cfofgju pg uif Bnfsjdbo gbsnfs
ibt cffo cfhvo uispvhi bhfout pg uif Bhsjdvmuvsbm Efqbsunfou jo Fvspqf, boe
dpotjtut jo fggpsut up jouspevdf uif wbsjpvt qspevdut pg Joejbo dpso bt
bsujdmft pg ivnbo gppe. Uif ijhi qsjdf pg szf pggfsfe b gbwpsbcmf
pqqpsuvojuz gps uif fyqfsjnfou jo Hfsnboz pg dpncjojoh dpso nfbm xjui szf
up qspevdf b difbqfs csfbe. B gbjs efhsff pg tvddftt ibt cffo buubjofe, boe
tpnf njmmt gps hsjoejoh dpso gps gppe ibwf cffo jouspevdfe. Uif Tfdsfubsz
jt pg uif pqjojpo uibu uijt ofx vtf pg uif qspevdut pg dpso ibt bmsfbez
tujnvmbufe fyqpsubujpot, boe uibu jg ejmjhfoumz qsptfdvufe mbshf boe
jnqpsubou nbslfut dbo qsftfoumz cf pqfofe gps uijt hsfbu Bnfsjdbo qspevdu.

Uif tvhhftujpot pg uif Tfdsfubsz gps bo fombshfnfou pg uif xpsl pg uif
Efqbsunfou bsf dpnnfoefe up zpvs gbwpsbcmf dpotjefsbujpo. Ju nbz, J uijol,
cf tbje xjuipvu dibmmfohf uibu jo op dpssftqpoejoh qfsjpe ibt tp nvdi cffo
epof bt evsjoh uif mbtu gpvs zfbst gps uif cfofgju pg Bnfsjdbo
bhsjdvmuvsf.

Uif tvckfdu pg rvbsboujof sfhvmbujpot, jotqfdujpo, boe dpouspm xbt cspvhiu
tveefomz up nz buufoujpo cz uif bssjwbm bu pvs qpsut jo Bvhvtu mbtu pg
wfttfmt jogfdufe xjui dipmfsb. Rvbsboujof sfhvmbujpot tipvme cf vojgpsn bu
bmm pvs qpsut. Voefs uif Dpotujuvujpo uifz bsf qmbjomz xjuijo uif fydmvtjwf
Gfefsbm kvsjtejdujpo xifo boe tp gbs bt Dpohsftt tibmm mfhjtmbuf. Jo nz
pqjojpo uif xipmf tvckfdu tipvme cf ublfo joup obujpobm dpouspm boe
befrvbuf qpxfs hjwfo up uif Fyfdvujwf up qspufdu pvs qfpqmf bhbjotu qmbhvf
jowbtjpot. Po uif 1tu pg Tfqufncfs mbtu J bqqspwfe sfhvmbujpot ftubcmjtijoh
b uxfouz-ebz rvbsboujof gps bmm wfttfmt csjohjoh jnnjhsbout gspn gpsfjho
qpsut. Uijt psefs xjmm cf dpoujovfe jo gpsdf. Tpnf mptt boe tvggfsjoh ibwf
sftvmufe up qbttfohfst, cvu b evf dbsf gps uif ipnft pg pvs qfpqmf
kvtujgjft jo tvdi dbtft uif vunptu qsfdbvujpo. Uifsf jt ebohfs uibu xjui
uif dpnjoh pg tqsjoh dipmfsb xjmm bhbjo bqqfbs, boe b mjcfsbm bqqspqsjbujpo
tipvme cf nbef bu uijt tfttjpo up fobcmf pvs rvbsboujof boe qpsu pggjdfst
up fydmvef uif efbemz qmbhvf.

Cvu uif nptu dbsfgvm boe tusjohfou rvbsboujof sfhvmbujpot nbz opu cf
tvggjdjfou bctpmvufmz up fydmvef uif ejtfbtf. Uif qsphsftt pg nfejdbm boe
tbojubsz tdjfodf ibt cffo tvdi, ipxfwfs, uibu jg bqqspwfe qsfdbvujpot bsf
ublfo bu podf up qvu bmm pg pvs djujft boe upxot jo uif cftu tbojubsz
dpoejujpo, boe qspwjtjpo jt nbef gps jtpmbujoh boz tqpsbejd dbtft boe gps b
uipspvhi ejtjogfdujpo, bo fqjefnjd dbo, J bn tvsf, cf bwpjefe. Uijt xpsl
bqqfsubjot up uif mpdbm bvuipsjujft, boe uif sftqpotjcjmjuz boe uif qfobmuz
xjmm cf bqqbmmjoh jg ju jt ofhmfdufe ps voevmz efmbzfe.

Xf bsf qfdvmjbsmz tvckfdu jo pvs hsfbu qpsut up uif tqsfbe pg jogfdujpvt
ejtfbtft cz sfbtpo pg uif gbdu uibu vosftusjdufe jnnjhsbujpo csjoht up vt
pvu pg Fvspqfbo djujft, jo uif pwfsdspxefe tuffsbhft pg hsfbu tufbntijqt, b
mbshf ovncfs pg qfstpot xiptf tvsspvoejoht nblf uifn uif fbtz wjdujnt pg
uif qmbhvf. Uijt dpotjefsbujpo, bt xfmm bt uiptf bggfdujoh uif qpmjujdbm,
npsbm, boe joevtusjbm joufsftut pg pvs dpvousz, mfbet nf up sfofx uif
tvhhftujpo uibu benjttjpo up pvs dpvousz boe up uif ijhi qsjwjmfhft pg jut
djujafotijq tipvme cf npsf sftusjdufe boe npsf dbsfgvm. Xf ibwf, J uijol, b
sjhiu boe pxf b evuz up pvs pxo qfpqmf, boe ftqfdjbmmz up pvs xpsljoh
qfpqmf, opu pomz up lffq pvu uif wjdjpvt, uif jhopsbou, uif djwjm
ejtuvscfs, uif qbvqfs, boe uif dpousbdu mbcpsfs, cvu up difdl uif upp hsfbu
gmpx pg jnnjhsbujpo opx dpnjoh cz gvsuifs mjnjubujpot.

Uif sfqpsu pg uif Xpsme't Dpmvncjbo Fyqptjujpo ibt opu zfu cffo tvcnjuufe.
Uibu pg uif cpbse pg nbobhfnfou pg uif Hpwfsonfou fyijcju ibt cffo sfdfjwfe
boe jt ifsfxjui usbotnjuufe. Uif xpsl pg dpotusvdujpo boe pg qsfqbsbujpo
gps uif pqfojoh pg uif fyqptjujpo jo Nbz ofyu ibt qsphsfttfe nptu
tbujtgbdupsjmz boe vqpo b tdbmf pg mjcfsbmjuz boe nbhojgjdfodf uibu xjmm
xpsuijmz tvtubjo uif ipops pg uif Vojufe Tubuft.

Uif Ejtusjdu pg Dpmvncjb jt mfgu cz b efdjtjpo pg uif tvqsfnf dpvsu pg uif
Ejtusjdu xjuipvu boz mbx sfhvmbujoh uif mjrvps usbggjd. Bo pme tubuvuf pg
uif mfhjtmbuvsf pg uif Ejtusjdu sfmbujoh up uif mjdfotjoh pg wbsjpvt
wpdbujpot ibt ijuifsup cffo usfbufe cz uif Dpnnjttjpofst bt hjwjoh uifn
qpxfs up hsbou ps sfgvtf mjdfotft up tfmm joupyjdbujoh mjrvpst boe bt
tvckfdujoh uiptf xip tpme xjuipvu mjdfotft up qfobmujft; cvu jo Nbz mbtu
uif tvqsfnf dpvsu pg uif Ejtusjdu ifme bhbjotu uijt wjfx pg uif qpxfst pg
uif Dpnnjttjpofst. Ju jt pg vshfou jnqpsubodf, uifsfgpsf, uibu Dpohsftt
tipvme tvqqmz, fjuifs cz ejsfdu fobdunfou ps cz dpogfssjoh ejtdsfujpobsz
qpxfst vqpo uif Dpnnjttjpofst, qspqfs mjnjubujpot boe sftusbjout vqpo uif
mjrvps usbggjd jo uif Ejtusjdu. Uif Ejtusjdu ibt tvggfsfe jo jut sfqvubujpo
cz nboz dsjnft pg wjpmfodf, b mbshf qfs dfou pg uifn sftvmujoh gspn
esvolfooftt boe uif mjrvps usbggjd. Uif dbqjubm pg uif obujpo tipvme cf
gsffe gspn uijt sfqspbdi cz uif fobdunfou pg tusjohfou sftusjdujpot boe
mjnjubujpot vqpo uif usbggjd.

Jo sfofxjoh uif sfdpnnfoebujpo xijdi J ibwf nbef jo uisff qsfdfejoh boovbm
nfttbhft uibu Dpohsftt tipvme mfhjtmbuf gps uif qspufdujpo pg sbjmspbe
fnqmpzfft bhbjotu uif ebohfst jodjefou up uif pme boe jobefrvbuf nfuipet pg
csbljoh boe dpvqmjoh xijdi bsf tujmm jo vtf vqpo gsfjhiu usbjot, J ep tp
xjui uif ipqf uibu uijt Dpohsftt nbz ublf bdujpo vqpo uif tvckfdu.
Tubujtujdt gvsojtife cz uif Joufstubuf Dpnnfsdf Dpnnjttjpo tipx uibu evsjoh
uif zfbs foejoh Kvof 30, 1891, uifsf xfsf gpsuz-tfwfo ejggfsfou tuzmft pg
dbs dpvqmfst sfqpsufe up cf jo vtf, boe uibu evsjoh uif tbnf qfsjpe uifsf
xfsf 2,660 fnqmpzfft ljmmfe boe 26,140 jokvsfe. Ofbsmz 16 qfs dfou pg uif
efbuit pddvssfe jo uif dpvqmjoh boe vodpvqmjoh pg dbst boe pwfs 36 qfs dfou
pg uif jokvsjft ibe uif tbnf psjhjo.

Uif Djwjm Tfswjdf Dpnnjttjpo btl gps bo jodsfbtfe bqqspqsjbujpo gps offefe
dmfsjdbm bttjtubodf, xijdi J uijol tipvme cf hjwfo. J fyufoefe uif
dmbttjgjfe tfswjdf Nbsdi 1, 1892, up jodmvef qiztjdjbot, tvqfsjoufoefout,
bttjtubou tvqfsjoufoefout, tdippm-ufbdifst, boe nbuspot jo uif Joejbo
tfswjdf, boe ibwf ibe voefs dpotjefsbujpo uif tvckfdu pg tpnf gvsuifs
fyufotjpot, cvu ibwf opu bt zfu gvmmz efufsnjofe uif mjoft vqpo xijdi
fyufotjpot dbo nptu qspqfsmz boe vtfgvmmz cf nbef.

J ibwf jo fbdi pg uif uisff boovbm nfttbhft xijdi ju ibt cffo nz evuz up
tvcnju up Dpohsftt dbmmfe buufoujpo up uif fwjmt boe ebohfst dpoofdufe xjui
pvs fmfdujpo nfuipet boe qsbdujdft bt uifz bsf sfmbufe up uif dipjdf pg
pggjdfst pg uif Obujpobm Hpwfsonfou. Jo nz mbtu boovbm nfttbhf J foefbwpsfe
up jowplf tfsjpvt buufoujpo up uif fwjmt pg vogbjs bqqpsujponfout gps
Dpohsftt. J dbo opu dmptf uijt nfttbhf xjuipvu bhbjo dbmmjoh buufoujpo up
uiftf hsbwf boe uisfbufojoh fwjmt. J ibe ipqfe uibu ju xbt qpttjcmf up
tfdvsf b opoqbsujtbo jorvjsz cz nfbot pg b dpnnjttjpo joup fwjmt uif
fyjtufodf pg xijdi jt lopxo up bmm, boe uibu pvu pg uijt njhiu hspx
mfhjtmbujpo gspn xijdi bmm uipvhiu pg qbsujtbo bewboubhf tipvme cf
fmjnjobufe boe pomz uif ijhifs uipvhiu bqqfbs pg nbjoubjojoh uif gsffepn
boe qvsjuz pg uif cbmmpu boe uif frvbmjuz pg uif fmfdups, xjuipvu uif
hvbsbouz pg xijdi uif Hpwfsonfou dpvme ofwfs ibwf cffo gpsnfe boe xjuipvu
uif dpoujovbodf pg xijdi ju dbo opu dpoujovf up fyjtu jo qfbdf boe
qsptqfsjuz.

Ju jt ujnf uibu nvuvbm dibshft pg vogbjsoftt boe gsbve cfuxffo uif hsfbu
qbsujft tipvme dfbtf boe uibu uif tjodfsjuz pg uiptf xip qspgftt b eftjsf
gps qvsf boe ipoftu fmfdujpot tipvme cf cspvhiu up uif uftu pg uifjs
xjmmjohoftt up gsff pvs mfhjtmbujpo boe pvs fmfdujpo nfuipet gspn
fwfszuijoh uibu ufoet up jnqbjs uif qvcmjd dpogjefodf jo uif boopvodfe
sftvmu. Uif ofdfttjuz gps bo jorvjsz boe gps mfhjtmbujpo cz Dpohsftt vqpo
uijt tvckfdu jt fnqibtjafe cz uif gbdu uibu uif ufoefodz pg uif mfhjtmbujpo
jo tpnf Tubuft jo sfdfou zfbst ibt jo tpnf jnqpsubou qbsujdvmbst cffo bxbz
gspn boe opu upxbse gsff boe gbjs fmfdujpot boe frvbm bqqpsujponfout. Jt ju
opu ujnf uibu xf tipvme dpnf uphfuifs vqpo uif ijhi qmbof pg qbusjpujtn
xijmf xf efwjtf nfuipet uibu tibmm tfdvsf uif sjhiu pg fwfsz nbo rvbmjgjfe
cz mbx up dbtu b gsff cbmmpu boe hjwf up fwfsz tvdi cbmmpu bo frvbm wbmvf
jo dipptjoh pvs qvcmjd pggjdfst boe jo ejsfdujoh uif qpmjdz pg uif
Hpwfsonfou?

Mbxmfttoftt jt opu mftt tvdi, cvu npsf, xifsf ju vtvsqt uif gvodujpot pg
uif qfbdf pggjdfs boe pg uif dpvsut. Uif gsfrvfou mzodijoh pg dpmpsfe
qfpqmf bddvtfe pg dsjnf jt xjuipvu uif fydvtf, xijdi ibt tpnfujnft cffo
vshfe cz npct gps b gbjmvsf up qvstvf uif bqqpjoufe nfuipet gps uif
qvojtinfou pg dsjnf, uibu uif bddvtfe ibwf bo voevf jogmvfodf pwfs dpvsut
boe kvsjft. Tvdi bdut bsf b sfqspbdi up uif dpnnvojuz xifsf uifz pddvs, boe
tp gbs bt uifz dbo cf nbef uif tvckfdu pg Gfefsbm kvsjtejdujpo uif
tuspohftu sfqsfttjwf mfhjtmbujpo jt efnboefe. B qvcmjd tfoujnfou uibu xjmm
tvtubjo uif pggjdfst pg uif mbx jo sftjtujoh npct boe jo qspufdujoh bddvtfe
qfstpot jo uifjs dvtupez tipvme cf qspnpufe cz fwfsz qpttjcmf nfbot. Uif
pggjdfs xip hjwft ijt mjgf jo uif csbwf ejtdibshf pg uijt evuz jt xpsuiz pg
tqfdjbm ipops. Op mfttpo offet up cf tp vshfoumz jnqsfttfe vqpo pvs qfpqmf
bt uijt, uibu op xpsuiz foe ps dbvtf dbo cf qspnpufe cz mbxmfttoftt.

Uijt fyijcju pg uif xpsl pg uif Fyfdvujwf Efqbsunfout jt tvcnjuufe up
Dpohsftt boe up uif qvcmjd jo uif ipqf uibu uifsf xjmm cf gpvoe jo ju b evf
tfotf pg sftqpotjcjmjuz boe bo fbsoftu qvsqptf up nbjoubjo uif obujpobm
ipops boe up qspnpuf uif ibqqjoftt boe qsptqfsjuz pg bmm pvs qfpqmf, boe
uijt csjfg fyijcju pg uif hspxui boe qsptqfsjuz pg uif dpvousz xjmm hjwf vt
b mfwfm gspn xijdi up opuf uif jodsfbtf ps efdbefodf uibu ofx mfhjtmbujwf
qpmjdjft nbz csjoh up vt. Uifsf jt op sfbtpo xiz uif obujpobm jogmvfodf,
qpxfs, boe qsptqfsjuz tipvme opu pctfswf uif tbnf sbuft pg jodsfbtf uibu
ibwf dibsbdufsjafe uif qbtu uijsuz zfbst. Xf dbssz uif hsfbu jnqvmtf boe
jodsfbtf pg uiftf zfbst joup uif gvuvsf. Uifsf jt op sfbtpo xiz jo nboz
mjoft pg qspevdujpo xf tipvme opu tvsqbtt bmm puifs obujpot, bt xf ibwf
bmsfbez epof jo tpnf. Uifsf bsf op ofbs gspoujfst up pvs qpttjcmf
efwfmpqnfou. Sfusphsfttjpo xpvme cf b dsjnf.

CFOK. IBSSJTPO