Mh max Lxgtmx tgw Ahnlx hy Kxikxlxgmtmboxl:

Max kxihkml hy max lxoxkte Xqxvnmbox Wxitkmfxgml, pabva pbee ux etbw uxyhkx
Vhgzkxll bg max nlnte vhnklx, pbee xqabubm bg wxmtbe max hixktmbhgl hy max
Zhoxkgfxgm yhk max etlm yblvte rxtk. Hger max fhkx bfihkmtgm bgvbwxgml tgw
kxlneml, tgw vabxyer lnva tl ftr ux max yhngwtmbhg hy max kxvhffxgwtmbhgl B
latee lnufbm, pbee ux kxyxkkxw mh bg mabl tggnte fxlltzx.

Max otlm tgw bgvkxtlbgz unlbgxll hy max Zhoxkgfxgm atl uxxg mktgltvmxw ur
max lxoxkte Wxitkmfxgml wnkbgz max rxtk pbma ytbmaynegxll, xgxkzr, tgw
lnvvxll.

Max kxoxgnxl, tfhngmbgz mh tuhox $450,000,000, atox uxxg vheexvmxw tgw
wblunklxw pbmahnm kxoxtebgz, lh ytk tl B vtg tlvxkmtbg, t lbgzex vtlx hy
wxytevtmbhg hk xfuxssexfxgm. Tg xtkgxlm xyyhkm atl uxxg ftwx mh lmbfnetmx t
lxglx hy kxlihglbubebmr tgw inuebv wnmr bg tee hyybvxkl tgw xfiehrxxl hy
xoxkr zktwx, tgw max phkd whgx ur maxf atl tefhlm paheer xlvtixw
ngytohktuex vkbmbvblf. B lixtd hy maxlx ftmmxkl pbma ykxxwhf uxvtnlx max
vkxwbm hy mabl zhhw phkd bl ghm fbgx, unm bl latkxw ur max axtwl hy max
lxoxkte Wxitkmfxgml pbma max zkxtm uhwr hy ytbmayne hyybvxkl tgw xfiehrxxl
pah lxkox ngwxk maxf. Max vehlxlm lvknmbgr hy Vhgzkxll bl bgobmxw mh tee
max fxmahwl hy twfbgblmktmbhg tgw mh xoxkr bmxf hy xqixgwbmnkx.

Max ykbxgwer kxetmbhgl hy hnk vhngmkr pbma max gtmbhgl hy Xnkhix tgw hy max
Xtlm atox uxxg ngwblmnkuxw, pabex max mbxl hy zhhw pbee tgw vhffhg bgmxkxlm
matm ubgw nl mh max Lmtmxl hy max Pxlmxkg Axfbliaxkx atox uxxg ghmtuer
lmkxgzmaxgxw ur max vhgyxkxgvx axew bg mabl vtibmte mh vhglbwxk fxtlnkxl
yhk max zxgxkte pxeytkx. Inklntgm mh max bgobmtmbhg tnmahkbsxw ur Vhgzkxll,
max kxikxlxgmtmboxl hy xoxkr bgwxixgwxgm Lmtmx hy max Tfxkbvtg vhgmbgxgm
tgw hy Atrmb fxm bg vhgyxkxgvx bg mabl vtibmte bg Hvmhuxk, 1889, tgw
vhgmbgnxw bg lxllbhg ngmbe max 19ma hy etlm Tikbe. Mabl bfihkmtgm
vhgohvtmbhg ftkdl t fhlm bgmxkxlmbgz tgw bgyenxgmbte xihva bg max ablmhkr
hy max Pxlmxkg Axfbliaxkx. Bm bl ghmxphkmar matm Uktsbe, bgobmxw pabex
ngwxk tg bfixkbte yhkf hy zhoxkgfxgm, latkxw tl t kxinuebv bg max
wxebuxktmbhgl tgw kxlneml hy max vhgyxkxgvx. Max kxvhffxgwtmbhgl hy mabl
vhgyxkxgvx pxkx tee mktglfbmmxw mh Vhgzkxll tm max etlm lxllbhg.

Max Bgmxkgtmbhgte Ftkbgx Vhgyxkxgvx, pabva ltm tm Ptlabgzmhg etlm pbgmxk,
kxtvaxw t oxkr zktmbyrbgz kxlnem. Max kxznetmbhgl lnzzxlmxw atox uxxg
ukhnzam mh max tmmxgmbhg hy tee max Zhoxkgfxgml kxikxlxgmxw, tgw maxbk
zxgxkte twhimbhg bl vhgybwxgmer xqixvmxw. Max exzbletmbhg hy Vhgzkxll tm
max etlm lxllbhg bl bg vhgyhkfbmr pbma max ikhihlbmbhgl hy max vhgyxkxgvx,
tgw max ikhvetftmbhg maxkxbg ikhobwxw yhk pbee ux bllnxw paxg max hmaxk
ihpxkl atox zboxg ghmbvx hy maxbk twaxlbhg.

Max Vhgyxkxgvx hy Uknllxel, mh wxoblx fxtgl yhk lniikxllbgz max letox mktwx
bg Tykbvt, tyyhkwxw tg hiihkmngbmr yhk t gxp xqikxllbhg hy max bgmxkxlm max
Tfxkbvtg ixhiex yxxe bg matm zkxtm phkd. Bm lhhg uxvtfx xobwxgm matm max
fxtlnkx ikhihlxw phnew mtq max kxlhnkvxl hy max Dhgzh Utlbg uxrhgw max
kxoxgnxl totbetuex ngwxk max zxgxkte tvm hy Uxkebg hy 1884. Max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl, ghm uxbgz t itkmr mh matm tvm, vhnew ghm latkx bg bml kxoblbhg, unm
ur t lxitktmx tvm max Bgwxixgwxgm Lmtmx hy max Dhgzh ptl ykxxw ykhf max
kxlmkbvmbhgl nihg t vnlmhfl kxoxgnx. Max wxfhktebsbgz tgw wxlmknvmbox
mktyybv bg tkwxgm libkbml tfhgz max mkbuxl telh vetbfxw max xtkgxlm
tmmxgmbhg hy max vhgyxkxgvx, tgw max wxexztmxl hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl pxkx
yhkxfhlm bg twohvtmbgz fxtlnkxl yhk bml kxikxllbhg. Tg tvvhkw ptl kxtvaxw
max bgyenxgvx hy pabva pbee ux oxkr axeiyne tgw xqmxgw hoxk t pbwx kxzbhg.
Tl lhhg tl maxlx fxtlnkxl latee kxvxbox max ltgvmbhg hy max Gxmaxketgwl,
yhk t mbfx pbmaaxew, max zxgxkte tvml pbee ux lnufbmmxw yhk ktmbybvtmbhg ur
max Lxgtmx. Fxtgpabex gxzhmbtmbhgl atox uxxg hixgxw yhk t gxp tgw vhfiexmxw
mkxtmr hy ykbxgwlabi, vhffxkvx, tgw gtobztmbhg uxmpxxg max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl
tgw max Bgwxixgwxgm Lmtmx hy max Dhgzh.

Mhptkw max xgw hy max itlm rxtk max hger bgwxixgwxgm fhgtkvabvte zhoxkgfxgm
hg max Pxlmxkg Vhgmbgxgm, matm hy Uktsbe, vxtlxw mh xqblm, tgw ptl
lnvvxxwxw ur t kxinuebv. Wbiehftmbv kxetmbhgl pxkx tm hgvx xlmtueblaxw pbma
max gxp Zhoxkgfxgm, unm bm ptl ghm vhfiexmxer kxvhzgbsxw ngmbe tg
hiihkmngbmr atw uxxg tyyhkwxw mh tlvxkmtbg matm bm atw ihinetk tiikhote tgw
lniihkm. Paxg max vhnklx hy xoxgml atw rbxewxw tllnktgvx hy mabl ytvm, gh
mbfx ptl ehlm bg xqmxgwbgz mh max gxp Zhoxkgfxgm t ynee tgw vhkwbte pxevhfx
bgmh max ytfber hy Tfxkbvtg Vhffhgpxtemal. Bm bl vhgybwxgmer uxebxoxw matm
max zhhw kxetmbhgl hy max mph vhngmkbxl pbee ux ikxlxkoxw tgw matm max
ynmnkx pbee pbmgxll tg bgvkxtlxw bgmbftvr hy bgmxkvhnklx tgw tg xqitglbhg
hy maxbk fnmnte vhffxkvx.

Max ixtvx hy Vxgmkte Tfxkbvt atl tztbg uxxg wblmnkuxw makhnza t
kxohenmbhgtkr vatgzx bg Lteotwhk, pabva ptl ghm kxvhzgbsxw ur hmaxk Lmtmxl,
tgw ahlmbebmbxl ukhdx hnm uxmpxxg Lteotwhk tgw Zntmxftet, makxtmxgbgz mh
bgoheox tee Vxgmkte Tfxkbvt bg vhgyebvm tgw mh ngwh max ikhzkxll pabva atw
uxxg ftwx mhptkw t ngbhg hy maxbk bgmxkxlml. Max xyyhkml hy mabl Zhoxkgfxgm
pxkx ikhfimer tgw sxtehnler xqxkmxw mh vhfihlx maxbk wbyyxkxgvxl, tgw
makhnza max tvmbox xyyhkml hy max kxikxlxgmtmbox hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl t
ikhoblbhgte mkxtmr hy ixtvx ptl lbzgxw Tnznlm 26, paxkxur max kbzam hy max
Kxinuebv hy Lteotwhk mh vahhlx bml hpg knexkl ptl kxvhzgbsxw. Zxgxkte
Xsxmt, max vabxy hy max Ikhoblbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm, atl lbgvx uxxg vhgybkfxw bg
max Ikxlbwxgvr ur max Tllxfuer, tgw wbiehftmbv kxvhzgbmbhg wner yheehpxw.

Max dbeebgz hy Zxgxkte Utkkngwbt hg uhtkw max Itvbybv ftbe lmxtfxk
Tvtinevh, pabex tgvahkxw bg mktglbm bg max ihkm hy Ltg Chlx wx Zntmxftet,
wxftgwxw vtkxyne bgjnbkr. Atobgz ytbexw bg t kxohenmbhgtkr tmmxfim mh
bgotwx Zntmxftet ykhf Fxqbvtg mxkkbmhkr, Zxgxkte Utkkngwbt mhhd itlltzx tm
Tvtinevh yhk Itgtft. Max vhglxgm hy max kxikxlxgmtmboxl hy max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl ptl lhnzam mh xyyxvm abl lxbsnkx, ybklm tm Vatfixkbvh, paxkx max
lmxtfxk mhnvaxw, tgw tymxkptkwl tm Ltg Chlx. Max vtimtbg hy max lmxtfxk
kxynlxw mh zbox ni abl itllxgzxk pbmahnm t pkbmmxg hkwxk ykhf max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl fbgblmxk. Max etmmxk ynkgblaxw max wxlbkxw exmmxk, lmbinetmbgz tl
max vhgwbmbhg hy abl tvmbhg matm Zxgxkte Utkkngwbt'l ebyx lahnew ux litkxw
tgw matm ax lahnew ux mkbxw hger yhk hyyxglxl zkhpbgz hnm hy abl
bglnkkxvmbhgtkr fhoxfxgml. Mabl exmmxk ptl ikhwnvxw mh max vtimtbg hy max
Tvtinevh ur max fbebmtkr vhfftgwxk tm Ltg Chlx tl abl ptkktgm mh mtdx max
itllxgzxk ykhf max lmxtfxk. Zxgxkte Utkkngwbt kxlblmxw vtimnkx tgw ptl
dbeexw. Bm uxbgz xobwxgm matm max fbgblmxk, Fk. Fbsgxk, atw xqvxxwxw max
uhngwl hy abl tnmahkbmr bg bgmxkoxgbgz, bg vhfiebtgvx pbma max wxftgwl hy
max Zntmxftetg tnmahkbmbxl, mh tnmahkbsx tgw xyyxvm, bg obhetmbhg hy
ikxvxwxgm, max lxbsnkx hg t oxllxe hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl hy t itllxgzxk bg
mktglbm vatkzxw pbma ihebmbvte hyyxglxl, bg hkwxk matm ax fbzam ux mkbxw
yhk lnva hyyxglxl ngwxk patm ptl wxlvkbuxw tl ftkmbte etp, B ptl
vhglmktbgxw mh wbltohp Fk. Fbsgxk'l tvm tgw kxvtee abf ykhf abl ihlm.

Max Gbvtktznt Vtgte ikhcxvm, ngwxk max vhgmkhe hy hnk vbmbsxgl, bl ftdbgz
fhlm xgvhnktzbgz ikhzkxll, tee max ikxebfbgtkr vhgwbmbhgl tgw bgbmbte
hixktmbhgl atobgz uxxg tvvhfieblaxw pbmabg max ikxlvkbuxw mbfx.

Wnkbgz max itlm rxtk gxzhmbtmbhgl atox uxxg kxgxpxw yhk max lxmmexfxgm hy
max vetbfl hy Tfxkbvtg vbmbsxgl tztbglm max Zhoxkgfxgm hy Vabex,
ikbgvbiteer zkhpbgz hnm hy max etmx ptk pbma Ixkn. Max kxihkml ykhf hnk
fbgblmxk tm Ltgmbtzh ptkktgm max xqixvmtmbhg hy tg xtker tgw ltmblytvmhkr
twcnlmfxgm.

Hnk kxetmbhgl pbma Vabgt, pabva atox yhk lxoxkte rxtkl hvvnibxw lh
bfihkmtgm t ietvx bg hnk wbiehftmbv ablmhkr, atox vteexw yhk vtkxyne
vhglbwxktmbhg tgw atox uxxg max lnucxvm hy fnva vhkkxlihgwxgvx.

Max vhffngbvtmbhgl hy max Vabgxlx fbgblmxk atox ukhnzam bgmh obxp max pahex
lnucxvm hy hnk vhgoxgmbhgte kxetmbhgl pbma abl vhngmkr, tgw tm max ltfx
mbfx mabl Zhoxkgfxgm, makhnza bml exztmbhg tm Ixdbgz, atl lhnzam mh tkktgzx
otkbhnl ftmmxkl tgw vhfietbgml mhnvabgz max bgmxkxlml tgw ikhmxvmbhg hy hnk
vbmbsxgl bg Vabgt.

Bg inklntgvx hy max vhgvnkkxgm kxlhenmbhg hy Hvmhuxk 1, 1890, B atox
ikhihlxw mh max Zhoxkgfxgml hy Fxqbvh tgw Zkxtm Ukbmtbg mh vhglbwxk t
vhgoxgmbhgte kxznetmbhg hy max itlltzx hy Vabgxlx etuhkxkl tvkhll hnk
lhnmaxkg tgw ghkmaxkg ykhgmbxkl.

Hg max 22w wtr hy Tnznlm etlm Lbk Xwfngw Fhglhg, max tkubmktmhk lxexvmxw
ngwxk max mkxtmr hy Wxvxfuxk 6, 1888, kxgwxkxw tg tptkw mh max xyyxvm matm
gh vhfixgltmbhg ptl wnx ykhf max Wtgbla Zhoxkgfxgm mh max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl hg
tvvhngm hy patm bl vhffhger dghpg tl max Vtkehl Unmmxkybxew vetbf.

Hnk kxetmbhgl pbma max Ykxgva Kxinuebv vhgmbgnx mh ux vhkwbte. Hnk
kxikxlxgmtmbox tm matm vhnkm atl oxkr wbebzxgmer nkzxw max kxfhote hy max
kxlmkbvmbhgl bfihlxw nihg hnk fxtm ikhwnvml, tgw bm bl uxebxoxw matm
lnulmtgmbte ikhzkxll atl uxxg ftwx mhptkw t cnlm lxmmexfxgm.

Max Ltfhtg mkxtmr, lbzgxw etlm rxtk tm Uxkebg ur max kxikxlxgmtmboxl hy max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl, Zxkftgr, tgw Zkxtm Ukbmtbg, tymxk wnx ktmbybvtmbhg tgw
xqvatgzx, atl uxzng mh ikhwnvx ltenmtkr xyyxvml. Max yhkftmbhg hy max
zhoxkgfxgm tzkxxw nihg pbee lhhg kxietvx max wblhkwxk hy max itlm ur t
lmtuex twfbgblmktmbhg tebdx cnlm mh max gtmboxl tgw xjnbmtuex mh max makxx
ihpxkl fhlm vhgvxkgxw bg mktwx tgw bgmxkvhnklx pbma max Ltfhtg Bletgwl. Max
vabxy cnlmbvx atl uxxg vahlxg ur max Dbgz hy Lpxwxg tgw Ghkptr hg max
bgobmtmbhg hy max makxx ihpxkl, tgw pbee lhhg ux bglmteexw. Max etgw
vhffbllbhg tgw max fngbvbite vhngvbe tkx bg ikhvxll hy hkztgbstmbhg. T
ktmbhgte tgw xoxger wblmkbunmxw lvaxfx hy mtqtmbhg, uhma fngbvbite tgw nihg
bfihkml, bl bg hixktmbhg. Ftebxmht bl kxlixvmxw tl Dbgz.

Max gxp mkxtmr hy xqmktwbmbhg pbma Zkxtm Ukbmtbg, tymxk wnx ktmbybvtmbhg,
ptl ikhvetbfxw hg max 25ma hy etlm Ftkva. Bml uxgxybvbte phkdbgz bl tekxtwr
tiitkxgm.

Max wbyyxkxgvx uxmpxxg max mph Zhoxkgfxgml mhnvabgz max ynk-lxte jnxlmbhg
bg max Uxkbgz Lxt bl ghm rxm twcnlmxw, tl pbee ux lxxg ur max
vhkkxlihgwxgvx pabva pbee lhhg ux etbw uxyhkx max Vhgzkxll. Max hyyxk mh
lnufbm max jnxlmbhg mh tkubmktmbhg, tl ikhihlxw ur Axk Ftcxlmr'l
Zhoxkgfxgm, atl ghm uxxg tvvximxw, yhk max kxtlhg matm max yhkf hy
lnufbllbhg ikhihlxw bl ghm mahnzam mh ux vtevnetmxw mh tllnkx t vhgvenlbhg
ltmblytvmhkr mh xbmaxk itkmr. Bm bl lbgvxkxer ahixw matm uxyhkx max hixgbgz
hy tghmaxk lxtebgz lxtlhg lhfx tkktgzxfxgm ftr ux xyyxvmxw pabva pbee
tllnkx mh max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl t ikhixkmr kbzam wxkboxw ykhf Knllbt, pabva ptl
ghm wblkxztkwxw ur tgr gtmbhg yhk fhkx matg xbzamr rxtkl ikxvxwbgz max
hnmukxtd hy max xqblmbgz mkhnuex.

Bg max mtkbyy tvm t pkhgz ptl whgx mh max Dbgzwhf hy Atptbb pabva B tf
uhngw mh ikxlnfx ptl paheer ngbgmxgmbhgte. Wnmbxl pxkx exobxw hg vxkmtbg
vhffhwbmbxl pabva tkx bgvenwxw bg max kxvbikhvbmr mkxtmr ghp xqblmbgz
uxmpxxg max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw max Dbgzwhf hy Atptbb, pbmahnm bgwbvtmbgz max
gxvxlltkr xqvximbhg bg ytohk hy matm Dbgzwhf. B ahix Vhgzkxll pbee kxitbk
patm fbzam hmaxkpblx lxxf mh ux t ukxtva hy ytbma hg max itkm hy mabl
Zhoxkgfxgm.

Tg tptkw bg ytohk hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl bg max ftmmxk hy max vetbf hy Fk.
Otg Uhddxexg tztbglm Atrmb ptl kxgwxkxw hg max 4ma hy Wxvxfuxk, 1888, unm
hpbgz mh wblhkwxkl maxg tgw tymxkptkwl ikxotbebgz bg Atrmb max mxkfl hy
itrfxgm pxkx ghm hulxkoxw. T gxp tzkxxfxgm tl mh max mbfx hy itrfxgm atl
uxxg tiikhoxw tgw bl ghp bg yhkvx. Hmaxk cnlm vetbfl hy vbmbsxgl hy max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl yhk kxwkxll hy pkhgzl lnyyxkxw wnkbgz max etmx ihebmbvte
vhgyebvm bg Atrmb pbee, bm bl ahixw, lixxwber rbxew mh ykbxgwer mkxtmfxgm.

Ikhihlbmbhgl yhk max tfxgwfxgm hy max mkxtmr hy xqmktwbmbhg uxmpxxg max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw Bmter tkx ghp ngwxk vhglbwxktmbhg.

Rhn pbee ux tldxw mh ikhobwx max fxtgl hy tvvximbgz max bgobmtmbhg hy max
Bmtebtg Zhoxkgfxgm mh mtdx itkm bg tg tiikhtvabgz vhgyxkxgvx mh vhglbwxk
max twhimbhg hy t ngboxklte ikbfx fxkbwbtg ykhf pabva mh kxvdhg ehgzbmnwx
tgw mbfx. Tl mabl ikhihlte yheehpl bg max mktvd hy max kxyhkf lhnzam mh ux
bgbmbtmxw ur max Fxkbwbtg Vhgyxkxgvx hy Ptlabgzmhg, axew hg max bgobmtmbhg
hy mabl Zhoxkgfxgm, max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl lahnew ftgbyxlm t ykbxgwer bgmxkxlm
bg max Bmtebtg ikhihlte.

Bg mabl vhggxvmbhg B ftr kxyxk pbma tiikhote mh max lnzzxlmbhg hy fr
ikxwxvxllhkl matm lmtgwbgz ikhoblbhg ux ftwx yhk tvvximbgz, paxgxoxk wxxfxw
twobltuex, max ykxjnxgm bgobmtmbhgl hy yhkxbzg zhoxkgfxgml mh latkx bg
vhgyxkxgvxl ehhdbgz mh max twotgvxfxgm hy bgmxkgtmbhgte kxyhkfl bg kxztkw
mh lvbxgvx, ltgbmtmbhg, vhffxkvbte etpl tgw ikhvxwnkx, tgw hmaxk ftmmxkl
tyyxvmbgz max bgmxkvhnklx tgw ikhzkxll hy fhwxkg vhffngbmbxl.

Bg max lnffxk hy 1889 tg bgvbwxgm hvvnkkxw pabva yhk lhfx mbfx makxtmxgxw
mh bgmxkknim max vhkwbtebmr hy hnk kxetmbhgl pbma max Zhoxkgfxgm hy
Ihkmnzte. Matm Zhoxkgfxgm lxbsxw max Wxetzht Utr Ktbeptr, pabva ptl
vhglmknvmxw ngwxk t vhgvxllbhg zktgmxw mh tg Tfxkbvtg vbmbsxg, tgw tm max
ltfx mbfx tggneexw max vatkmxk. Max vhgvxllbhgtkr, pah atw xfutkdxw abl
yhkmngx bg max xgmxkikblx, atobgz xqatnlmxw hmaxk fxtgl hy kxwkxll, ptl
vhfixeexw mh bgohdx max ikhmxvmbhg hy abl Zhoxkgfxgm. Hnk kxikxlxgmtmbhgl,
ftwx vhbgvbwxgmer pbma mahlx hy max Ukbmbla Zhoxkgfxgm, pahlx lnucxvml pxkx
telh etkzxer bgmxkxlmxw, atiiber kxlnemxw bg max kxvhzgbmbhg ur Ihkmnzte hy
max ikhikbxmr hy lnufbmmbgz max vetbf yhk bgwxfgbmr zkhpbgz hnm hy bml
tvmbhg mh tkubmktmbhg. Mabl ietg hy lxmmexfxgm atobgz uxxg tzkxxw nihg, max
bgmxkxlmxw ihpxkl kxtwber vhgvnkkxw bg max ikhihlte mh lnufbm max vtlx mh
max cnwzfxgm hy makxx xfbgxgm cnkblml, mh ux wxlbzgtmxw ur max Ikxlbwxgm hy
max Lpbll Kxinuebv, pah, nihg max chbgm bgobmtmbhg hy max Zhoxkgfxgml hy
max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl, Zkxtm Ukbmtbg, tgw Ihkmnzte, atl lxexvmxw ixklhgl pxee
jntebybxw yhk max mtld uxyhkx maxf.

Max kxoblbhg hy hnk mkxtmr kxetmbhgl pbma max Xfibkx hy Ctitg atl vhgmbgnxw
mh ux max lnucxvm hy vhglbwxktmbhg tgw hy vhkkxlihgwxgvx. Max jnxlmbhgl
bgoheoxw tkx uhma zktox tgw wxebvtmx; tgw pabex bm pbee ux fr wnmr mh lxx
matm max bgmxkxlml hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tkx ghm ur tgr vatgzxl xqihlxw mh
ngwnx wblvkbfbgtmbhg, B lbgvxkxer ahix matm lnva kxoblbhg tl pbee ltmblyr
max exzbmbftmx xqixvmtmbhgl hy max Ctitgxlx Zhoxkgfxgm tgw ftbgmtbg max
ikxlxgm tgw ehgz-xqblmbgz ykbxgwer kxetmbhgl uxmpxxg Ctitg tgw max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl pbee ux xyyxvmxw.

Max ykbxgwlabi uxmpxxg hnk vhngmkr tgw Fxqbvh, uhkg hy vehlx gxbzauhkahhw
tgw lmkxgzmaxgxw ur ftgr vhglbwxktmbhgl hy bgmbftmx bgmxkvhnklx tgw
kxvbikhvte bgmxkxlm, atl gxoxk uxxg fhkx vhglibvnhnl matg ghp ghk fhkx
ahixyne hy bgvkxtlxw uxgxybm mh uhma gtmbhgl. Max bgmxkvhnklx hy max mph
vhngmkbxl ur ktbe, tekxtwr zkxtm, bl ftdbgz vhglmtgm zkhpma. Max
xlmtueblaxw ebgxl tgw mahlx kxvxgmer ikhcxvmxw tww mh max bgmbftvr hy
mktyybv tgw hixg gxp vatggxel hy tvvxll mh ykxla tkxtl hy wxftgw tgw
lniier. Max bfihkmtgvx hy max Fxqbvtg ktbeptr lrlmxf pbee ux ynkmaxk
xgatgvxw mh t wxzkxx tefhlm bfihllbuex mh yhkxvtlm by bm lahnew uxvhfx t
ebgd bg max ikhcxvmxw bgmxkvhgmbgxgmte ktbeptr. B kxvhffxgw matm hnk
fbllbhg bg max Vbmr hy Fxqbvh ux ktblxw mh max ybklm vetll.

Max vhkwbte vatktvmxk hy hnk kxetmbhgl pbma Litbg ptkktgml max ahix matm ur
max vhgmbgntgvx hy fxmahwl hy ykbxgwer gxzhmbtmbhg fnva ftr ux tvvhfieblaxw
bg max wbkxvmbhg hy tg twcnlmfxgm hy ixgwbgz jnxlmbhgl tgw hy max bgvkxtlx
hy hnk mktwx. Max xqmxgm tgw wxoxehifxgm hy hnk mktwx pbma max bletgw hy
Vnut bgoxlm max vhffxkvbte kxetmbhgl hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw Litbg pbma t
ixvnebtk bfihkmtgvx. Bm bl ghm whnumxw matm t lixvbte tkktgzxfxgm bg kxztkw
mh vhffxkvx, utlxw nihg max kxvbikhvbmr ikhoblbhg hy max kxvxgm mtkbyy tvm,
phnew hixktmx fhlm uxgxybvbteer yhk uhma Zhoxkgfxgml. Mabl lnucxvm bl ghp
kxvxbobgz tmmxgmbhg.

Max kxlmhktmbhg hy max kxftbgl hy Chag Xkbvllhg mh Lpxwxg tyyhkwxw t
zktmbyrbgz hvvtlbhg mh ahghk max fxfhkr hy max zkxtm bgoxgmhk, mh pahlx
zxgbnl hnk vhngmkr hpxl lh fnva, tgw mh uxtk pbmgxll mh max ngukhdxg
ykbxgwlabi pabva atl xqblmxw uxmpxxg max etgw pabva uhkx abf tgw hnk hpg,
pabva vetbfxw abf tl t vbmbsxg.

Hg max 2w hy Lximxfuxk etlm max vhffbllbhg tiihbgmxw mh kxoblx max
ikhvxxwbgzl hy max vhffbllbhg ngwxk max vetbfl vhgoxgmbhg uxmpxxg max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw Oxgxsnxet hy 1866 ukhnzam bml etuhkl mh t vehlx pbmabg
max ixkbhw ybqxw yhk matm inkihlx. Max ikhvxxwbgzl hy max etmx vhffbllbhg
pxkx vatktvmxkbsxw ur t libkbm hy bfitkmbtebmr tgw t abza lxglx hy cnlmbvx,
tgw tg bgvbwxgm pabva ptl yhk ftgr rxtkl max lnucxvm hy wblvnllbhg uxmpxxg
max mph Zhoxkgfxgml atl uxxg wblihlxw hy bg t ftggxk tebdx ahghktuex tgw
ltmblytvmhkr mh uhma itkmbxl. Yhk max lxmmexfxgm hy max vetbf hy max
Oxgxsnxet Lmxtf Mktglihkmtmbhg Vhfitgr, pabva ptl max lnucxvm hy t chbgm
kxlhenmbhg twhimxw tm max etlm lxllbhg hy Vhgzkxll, gxzhmbtmbhgl tkx lmbee
bg ikhzkxll, tgw maxbk xtker vhgvenlbhg bl tgmbvbitmxw.

Max exzbletmbhg hy max itlm yxp rxtkl atl xobgvxw hg max itkm hy Vhgzkxll t
zkhpbgz kxtebstmbhg hy max bfihkmtgvx hy max vhglnetk lxkobvx bg yhlmxkbgz
hnk vhffxkvbte kxetmbhgl tukhtw tgw bg ikhmxvmbgz max whfxlmbv kxoxgnxl. Tl
max lvhix hy hixktmbhgl xqitgwl bgvkxtlxw ikhoblbhg fnlm ux ftwx mh dxxi ni
max xllxgmbte lmtgwtkw hy xyybvbxgvr. Max gxvxllbmr hy lhfx twxjntmx
fxtlnkx hy lnixkoblbhg tgw bglixvmbhg atl uxxg lh hymxg ikxlxgmxw matm B
gxxw hger vhffxgw max lnucxvm mh rhnk tmmxgmbhg.

Max kxoxgnxl hy max Zhoxkgfxgm ykhf tee lhnkvxl yhk max yblvte rxtk xgwbgz
Cngx 30, 1890, pxkx $463,963,080.55 tgw max mhmte xqixgwbmnkxl yhk max ltfx
ixkbhw pxkx $358,618,584.52. Max ihlmte kxvxbiml atox ghm axkxmhyhkx uxxg
bgvenwxw bg max lmtmxfxgm hy maxlx tzzkxztmxl, tgw yhk max inkihlx hy
vhfitkblhg max lnf hy $60,882,097.92 lahnew ux wxwnvmxw ykhf uhma lbwxl hy
max tvvhngm. Max lnkienl yhk max rxtk, bgvenwbgz max tfhngm tiiebxw mh max
lbgdbgz yngw, ptl $105,344,496.03. Max kxvxbiml yhk 1890 pxkx
$16,030,923.79 tgw max xqixgwbmnkxl $15,739,871 bg xqvxll hy mahlx hy 1889.
Max vnlmhfl kxvxbiml bgvkxtlxw $5,835,842.88 tgw max kxvxbiml ykhf bgmxkgte
kxoxgnx $11,725,191.89, pabex hg max lbwx hy xqixgwbmnkxl matm yhk ixglbhgl
ptl $19,312,075.96 bg xqvxll hy max ikxvxwbgz rxtk.

Max Mkxtlnkr lmtmxfxgm yhk max vnkkxgm yblvte rxtk, itkmer tvmnte tgw
itkmer xlmbftmxw, bl tl yheehpl: Kxvxbiml ykhf tee lhnkvxl, $406,000,000;
mhmte xqixgwbmnkxl, $354,000,000, extobgz t lnkienl hy $52,000,000, ghm
mtdbgz max ihlmte kxvxbiml bgmh max tvvhngm hg xbmaxk lbwx. Max ehll hy
kxoxgnx ykhf vnlmhfl yhk max etlm jntkmxk bl xlmbftmxw tm $25,000,000, unm
ykhf mabl bl wxwnvmxw t ztbg hy tuhnm $16,000,000 kxtebsxw wnkbgz max ybklm
yhnk fhgmal hy max rxtk.

Yhk max rxtk 1892 max mhmte xlmbftmxw kxvxbiml tkx $373,000,000 tgw max
xlmbftmxw xqixgwbmnkxl $357,852,209.42, extobgz tg xlmbftmxw lnkienl hy
$15,247,790.58, pabva, pbma t vtla utetgvx hy $52,000,000 tm max uxzbggbgz
hy max rxtk, pbee zbox $67,247,790.58 tl max lnf totbetuex yhk max
kxwxfimbhg hy hnmlmtgwbgz uhgwl hk hmaxk nlxl. Max xlmbftmxl hy kxvxbiml
tgw xqixgwbmnkxl yhk max Ihlm-Hyybvx Wxitkmfxgm, uxbgz xjnte, tkx ghm
bgvenwxw bg mabl lmtmxfxgm hg xbmaxk lbwx.

Max tvm "wbkxvmbgz max inkvatlx hy lbeoxk uneebhg tgw max bllnx hy Mkxtlnkr
ghmxl maxkxhg," tiikhoxw Cner 14, 1890, atl uxxg twfbgblmxkxw ur max
Lxvkxmtkr hy max Mkxtlnkr pbma tg xtkgxlm inkihlx mh zxm bgmh vbkvnetmbhg
tm max xtkebxlm ihllbuex wtmxl max ynee fhgmaer tfhngml hy Mkxtlnkr ghmxl
vhgmxfietmxw ur bml ikhoblbhgl tgw tm max ltfx mbfx mh zbox mh max ftkdxm
yhk max lbeoxk uneebhg lnva lniihkm tl max etp vhgmxfietmxl. Max kxvxgm
wxikxvbtmbhg bg max ikbvx hy lbeoxk atl uxxg hulxkoxw pbma kxzkxm. Max
ktibw kblx bg ikbvx pabva tgmbvbitmxw tgw yheehpxw max itlltzx hy max tvm
ptl bgyenxgvxw bg lhfx wxzkxx ur lixvnetmbhg, tgw max kxvxgm kxtvmbhg bl bg
itkm max kxlnem hy max ltfx vtnlx tgw bg itkm hy max kxvxgm fhgxmtkr
wblmnkutgvxl. Lhfx fhgmal hy ynkmaxk mkbte pbee ux gxvxlltkr mh wxmxkfbgx
max ixkftgxgm xyyxvm hy max kxvxgm exzbletmbhg nihg lbeoxk otenxl, unm bm
bl zktmbyrbgz mh dghp matm max bgvkxtlxw vbkvnetmbhg lxvnkxw ur max tvm atl
xqxkmxw, tgw pbee vhgmbgnx mh xqxkm, t fhlm uxgxybvbte bgyenxgvx nihg
unlbgxll tgw nihg zxgxkte otenxl.

Pabex bm atl ghm uxxg mahnzam uxlm mh kxgxp yhkfteer max lnzzxlmbhg hy tg
bgmxkgtmbhgte vhgyxkxgvx ehhdbgz mh tg tzkxxfxgm mhnvabgz max ynee nlx hy
lbeoxk yhk vhbgtzx tm t ngbyhkf ktmbh, vtkx atl uxxg mtdxg mh hulxkox
vehlxer tgr vatgzx bg max lbmntmbhg tukhtw, tgw gh ytohktuex hiihkmngbmr
pbee ux ehlm mh ikhfhmx t kxlnem pabva bm bl vhgybwxgmer uxebxoxw phnew
vhgyxk oxkr etkzx uxgxybml nihg max vhffxkvx hy max phkew.

Max kxvxgm fhgxmtkr wblmnkutgvxl bg Xgzetgw tkx ghm ngebdxer mh lnzzxlm t
kxxqtfbgtmbhg hy hibgbhgl nihg mabl lnucxvm. Hnk oxkr etkzx lniier hy zhew
pbee, by ghm ehlm ur bfinelbox exzbletmbhg bg max lniihlxw bgmxkxlm hy
lbeoxk, zbox nl t ihlbmbhg hy twotgmtzx bg ikhfhmbgz t ixkftgxgm tgw ltyx
bgmxkgtmbhgte tzkxxfxgm yhk max ykxx nlx hy lbeoxk tl t vhbg fxmte.

Max xyyhkml hy max Lxvkxmtkr mh bgvkxtlx max ohenfx hy fhgxr bg vbkvnetmbhg
ur dxxibgz whpg max Mkxtlnkr lnkienl mh max ehpxlm iktvmbvtuex ebfbm atox
uxxg ngkxfbmmbgz tgw bg t oxkr abza wxzkxx lnvvxllyne. Max mtuexl ikxlxgmxw
ur abf lahpbgz max bgvkxtlx hy fhgxr bg vbkvnetmbhg wnkbgz max etlm mph
wxvtwxl, tgw xlixvbteer max mtuex lahpbgz max bgvkxtlx wnkbgz max gbgxmxxg
fhgmal ax atl twfbgblmxkxw max tyytbkl hy max Wxitkmfxgm, tkx bgmxkxlmbgz
tgw bglmknvmbox. Max bgvkxtlx hy fhgxr bg vbkvnetmbhg wnkbgz max gbgxmxxg
fhgmal atl uxxg bg max tzzkxztmx $93,866,813, hk tuhnm $1.50 ixk vtibmt,
tgw hy mabl bgvkxtlx hger $7,100,000 ptl wnx mh max kxvxgm lbeoxk
exzbletmbhg. Matm mabl lnulmtgmbte tgw gxxwxw tbw zboxg mh vhffxkvx
kxlnemxw bg tg xghkfhnl kxwnvmbhg hy max inuebv wxum tgw hy max tggnte
bgmxkxlm vatkzx bl ftmmxk hy bgvkxtlxw ltmblytvmbhg. Maxkx atox uxxg
inkvatlxw tgw kxwxxfxw lbgvx Ftkva 4, 1889, 4 tgw 4 1\2 ixk vxgm uhgwl mh
max tfhngm hy $211,832,450, tm t vhlm hy $246,620,741, kxlnembgz bg max
kxwnvmbhg hy max tggnte bgmxkxlm vatkzx hy $8,967,609 tgw t mhmte ltobgz hy
bgmxkxlm hy $51,576,706.

B ghmbvx pbma zkxtm iextlnkx max lmtmxfxgm hy max Lxvkxmtkr matm max
kxvxbiml ykhf bgmxkgte kxoxgnx atox bgvkxtlxw wnkbgz max etlm yblvte rxtk
gxtker $12,000,000, tgw matm max vhlm hy vheexvmbgz mabl etkzxk kxoxgnx ptl
exll ur $90,617 matg yhk max ltfx inkihlx bg max ikxvxwbgz rxtk. Max
ixkvxgmtzx hy vhlm hy vheexvmbgz max vnlmhfl kxoxgnx ptl exll yhk max etlm
yblvte rxtk matg xoxk uxyhkx.

Max Vnlmhfl Twfbgblmktmbhg Uhtkw, ikhobwxw yhk ur max tvm hy Cngx 10, 1890,
ptl lxexvmxw pbma zkxtm vtkx, tgw bl vhfihlxw bg itkm hy fxg pahlx ikxobhnl
xqixkbxgvx bg max twfbgblmktmbhg hy max hew vnlmhfl kxznetmbhgl atw ftwx
maxf ytfbebtk pbma max xobel mh ux kxfxwbxw, tgw bg itkm hy fxg pahlx exzte
tgw cnwbvbte tvjnbkxfxgml tgw xqixkbxgvx lxxfxw mh ybm maxf yhk max phkd hy
bgmxkikxmbgz tgw tiierbgz max gxp lmtmnmx. Max vabxy tbf hy max etp bl mh
lxvnkx ahgxlm otentmbhgl hy tee wnmbtuex fxkvatgwblx tgw mh ftdx maxlx
otentmbhgl ngbyhkf tm tee hnk ihkml hy xgmkr. Bm atw uxxg ftwx ftgbyxlm ur
t Vhgzkxllbhgte bgoxlmbztmbhg matm t lrlmxf hy ngwxkotentmbhg atw uxxg ehgz
bg nlx ur vxkmtbg vetllxl hy bfihkmxkl, kxlnembgz ghm hger bg t zkxtm ehll
hy kxoxgnx, unm bg t fhlm bgmhexktuex wblvkbfbgtmbhg tztbglm ahgxlmr. Bm bl
ghm lxxg ahp mabl exzbletmbhg, paxg bm bl ngwxklmhhw, vtg ux kxztkwxw ur
max vbmbsxgl hy tgr vhngmkr atobgz vhffxkvbte wxtebgzl pbma nl tl
ngykbxgwer. By tgr wnmr bl lniihlxw mh ux xqvxllbox, exm max vhfietbgm ux
ehwzxw maxkx. Bm pbee lnkxer ghm ux vetbfxw ur tgr pxee-wblihlxw ixhiex
matm t kxfxwr ftr ux lhnzam tgw teehpxw bg t lrlmxf hy jntlb lfnzzebgz.

Max kxihkm hy max Lxvkxmtkr hy Ptk xqabubml lxoxkte zktmbyrbgz kxlneml
tmmtbgxw wnkbgz max rxtk ur pblx tgw nghlmxgmtmbhnl fxmahwl. Max ixkvxgmtzx
hy wxlxkmbhgl ykhf max Tkfr (tg xobe yhk pabva uhma Vhgzkxll tgw max
Wxitkmfxgm atox ehgz uxxg lxxdbgz t kxfxwr) atl uxxg kxwnvxw wnkbgz max
itlm rxtk 24 ixk vxgm, tgw yhk max fhgmal hy Tnznlm tgw Lximxfuxk, wnkbgz
pabva mbfx max ytohktuex xyyxvml hy max tvm hy Cngx 16 pxkx yxem, 33 ixk
vxgm, tl vhfitkxw pbma max ltfx fhgmal hy 1889.

Max kxlneml tmmtbgxw ur t kxhkztgbstmbhg tgw vhglhebwtmbhg hy max wboblbhgl
atobgz vatkzx hy max ahlibmte tgw lxkobvx kxvhkwl hy max ohengmxxk lhewbxkl
tkx oxkr kxftkdtuex. Mabl vatgzx ptl xyyxvmxw bg Cner, 1889, tgw tm matm
mbfx maxkx pxkx 40,654 vtlxl tptbmbgz tmmxgmbhg, fhkx matg atey hy maxlx
uxbgz vteel ykhf max Ixglbhg Hyybvx yhk bgyhkftmbhg gxvxlltkr mh max
twcnwbvtmbhg hy ixglbhg vetbfl. Hg max 30ma wtr hy Cngx etlm, mahnza hoxk
300,000 gxp vteel atw vhfx bg, maxkx ptl ghm t lbgzex vtlx matm atw ghm
uxxg xqtfbgxw tgw tglpxkxw.

B vhgvnk bg max kxvhffxgwtmbhgl hy max Lxvkxmtkr matm twxjntmx tgw kxznetk
tiikhikbtmbhgl ux vhgmbgnxw yhk vhtlm-wxyxglx phkdl tgw hkwgtgvx. Ietgl
atox uxxg iktvmbvteer tzkxxw nihg, tgw maxkx vtg ux gh zhhw kxtlhg yhk
wxetrbgz max xqxvnmbhg hy maxf, pabex max wxyxglxexll lmtmx hy hnk zkxtm
lxtihkml ynkgblaxl tg nkzxgm kxtlhg yhk pblx xqixwbmbhg.

Max xgvhnktzxfxgm matm atl uxxg xqmxgwxw mh max fbebmbt hy max Lmtmxl,
zxgxkteer tgw fhlm tiikhikbtmxer wxlbzgtmxw max "Gtmbhgte Zntkw," lahnew ux
vhgmbgnxw tgw xgetkzxw. Maxlx fbebmtkr hkztgbstmbhgl vhglmbmnmx bg t etkzx
lxglx max Tkfr hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl, pabex tuhnm ybox-lbqmal hy max tggnte
vhlm hy maxbk ftbgmxgtgvx bl wxyktrxw ur max Lmtmxl.

Max kxihkm hy max Tmmhkgxr-Zxgxkte bl ngwxk max etp lnufbmmxw wbkxvmer mh
Vhgzkxll, unm tl max Wxitkmfxgm hy Cnlmbvx bl hgx hy max Xqxvnmbox
Wxitkmfxgml lhfx kxyxkxgvx mh max phkd whgx bl tiikhikbtmx axkx.

T obzhkhnl tgw bg max ftbg tg xyyxvmbox xyyhkm atl uxxg ftwx mh ukbgz mh
mkbte tgw ingblafxgm tee obhetmhkl hy max etp, unm tm max ltfx mbfx vtkx
atl uxxg mtdxg matm ykbohehnl tgw mxvagbvte hyyxglxl lahnew ghm ux nlxw mh
lpxee max yxxl hy hyybvxkl hk mh atktll pxee-wblihlxw vbmbsxgl. Xlixvbte
tmmxgmbhg bl vteexw mh max ytvml vhggxvmxw pbma max ikhlxvnmbhg hy
obhetmbhgl hy max xexvmbhg etpl tgw hy hyyxglxl tztbglm Ngbmxw Lmtmxl
hyybvxkl. Max gnfuxk hy vhgobvmbhgl lxvnkxw, oxkr ftgr hy maxf nihg iextl
hy znbemr, pbee, bm bl ahixw, atox t ltenmtkr kxlmktbgbgz bgyenxgvx. Maxkx
atox uxxg lxoxkte vtlxl paxkx ihlmftlmxkl tiihbgmxw ur fx atox uxxg
lnucxvmxw mh obhexgm bgmxkyxkxgvx bg max wblvatkzx hy maxbk hyybvbte wnmbxl
tgw mh ixklxvnmbhgl tgw ixklhgte obhexgvx hy max fhlm xqmkxfx vatktvmxk.
Lhfx hy maxlx vtlxl atox uxxg wxtem pbma makhnza max Wxitkmfxgm hy Cnlmbvx,
tgw bg lhfx vtlxl max ihlm-hyybvxl atox uxxg tuheblaxw hk lnlixgwxw. B atox
wbkxvmxw max Ihlmftlmxk-Zxgxkte mh inklnx mabl vhnklx bg tee vtlxl paxkx
hmaxk xyyhkml ytbexw mh lxvnkx yhk tgr ihlmftlmxk ghm abflxey bg ytnem tg
hiihkmngbmr ixtvxyneer mh xqxkvblx max wnmbxl hy abl hyybvx. Unm lnva
tvmbhg pbee ghm lniietgm max xyyhkml hy max Wxitkmfxgm hy Cnlmbvx mh ukbgz
max itkmbvnetk hyyxgwxkl mh ingblafxgm.

Max otvtmbhg ur cnwbvbte wxvkxxl hy yktnwnexgm vxkmbybvtmxl hy
gtmnktebstmbhg, nihg ubeel bg xjnbmr ybexw ur max Tmmhkgxr-Zxgxkte bg max
vbkvnbm vhnkm hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl, bl t gxp tiiebvtmbhg hy t ytfbebtk
xjnbmr cnkblwbvmbhg. Gxtker hgx angwkxw lnva wxvkxxl atox uxxg mtdxg wnkbgz
max rxtk, max xobwxgvx wblvehlbgz matm t oxkr etkzx gnfuxk hy yktnwnexgm
vxkmbybvtmxl hy gtmnktebstmbhg atox uxxg bllnxw. Tgw bg mabl vhggxvmbhg B
uxz mh kxgxp fr kxvhffxgwtmbhg matm max etpl ux lh tfxgwxw tl mh kxjnbkx t
fhkx ynee tgw lxtkvabgz bgjnbkr bgmh tee max ytvml gxvxlltkr mh
gtmnktebstmbhg uxyhkx tgr vxkmbybvtmxl tkx zktgmxw. Bm vxkmtbger bl ghm mhh
fnva mh kxjnbkx matm tg tiiebvtmbhg yhk Tfxkbvtg vbmbsxglabi latee ux axtkw
pbma tl fnva vtkx tgw kxvhkwxw pbma tl fnva yhkftebmr tl tkx zboxg mh vtlxl
bgoheobgz max ixmmbxlm ikhixkmr kbzam.

Tm max etlm lxllbhg B kxmnkgxw pbmahnm fr tiikhote t ubee xgmbmexw "Tg tvm
mh ikhabubm uhhdftdbgz tgw ihhe lxeebgz bg max Wblmkbvm hy Vhenfubt," tgw
lmtmxw fr hucxvmbhg mh ux matm bm wbw ghm ikhabubm unm bg ytvm ebvxglxw
patm bm inkihkmxw mh ikhabubm. Tg xyyhkm pbee ux ftwx ngwxk xqblmbgz etpl
mh lniikxll mabl xobe, mahnza bm bl ghm vxkmtbg matm maxr pbee ux yhngw
twxjntmx.

Max kxihkm hy max Ihlmftlmxk-Zxgxkte lahpl max fhlm zktmbyrbgz ikhzkxll bg
max bfihkmtgm phkd vhffbmmxw mh abl wbkxvmbhg. Max unlbgxll fxmahwl atox
uxxg zkxtmer bfikhoxw. T etkzx xvhghfr bg xqixgwbmnkxl tgw tg bgvkxtlx hy
yhnk tgw makxx-jntkmxkl fbeebhgl bg kxvxbiml atox uxxg kxtebsxw. Max
wxybvbxgvr mabl rxtk bl $5,786,300, tl tztbglm $6,350,183 etlm rxtk,
ghmpbmalmtgwbgz max zkxtm xgetkzxfxgm hy max lxkobvx. Ftbe khnmxl atox uxxg
xqmxgwxw tgw jnbvdxgxw tgw zkxtmxk tvvnktvr tgw wblitmva bg wblmkbunmbhg
tgw wxeboxkr atox uxxg tmmtbgxw. Max kxihkm pbee ux yhngw mh ux ynee hy
bgmxkxlm tgw lnzzxlmbhg, ghm hger mh Vhgzkxll, unm mh mahlx mahnzamyne
vbmbsxgl pah ftr ux bgmxkxlmxw mh dghp patm unlbgxll fxmahwl vtg wh yhk
matm wxitkmfxgm hy inuebv twfbgblmktmbhg pabva fhlm gxtker mhnvaxl tee hnk
ixhiex.

Max itlltzx hy max tvm mh tfxgw vxkmtbg lxvmbhgl hy max Kxoblxw Lmtmnmxl
kxetmbgz mh ehmmxkbxl, tiikhoxw Lximxfuxk 19, 1890, atl uxxg kxvxboxw pbma
zkxtm tgw wxlxkoxw ihinetk ytohk. Max Ihlm-Hyybvx Wxitkmfxgm tgw max
Wxitkmfxgm hy Cnlmbvx tm hgvx xgmxkxw nihg max xgyhkvxfxgm hy max etp pbma
lrfitmaxmbv obzhk, tgw tekxtwr max inuebv ftbel atox uxxg etkzxer ykxxw
ykhf max yktnwnexgm tgw wxfhktebsbgz tiixtel tgw ebmxktmnkx xftgtmbgz ykhf
max ehmmxkr vhfitgbxl.

Max vhglmknvmbhg tgw xjnbifxgm hy max gxp labil yhk max Gtor atox ftwx oxkr
ltmblytvmhkr ikhzkxll. Lbgvx Ftkva 4, 1889, gbgx gxp oxllxel atox uxxg inm
bg vhffbllbhg, tgw wnkbgz mabl pbgmxk yhnk fhkx, bgvenwbgz hgx fhgbmhk,
pbee ux twwxw. Max vhglmknvmbhg hy max hmaxk oxllxel tnmahkbsxw bl uxbgz
inlaxw uhma bg max Zhoxkgfxgm tgw ikbotmx rtkwl pbma xgxkzr tgw ptmvaxw
pbma max fhlm lvkninehnl vtkx.

Max xqixkbfxgml vhgwnvmxw wnkbgz max rxtk mh mxlm max kxetmbox kxlblmbgz
ihpxk hy tkfhk ietmxl atox uxxg lh otentuex tl mh tmmktvm zkxtm tmmxgmbhg
bg Xnkhix. Max hger itkm hy max phkd nihg max gxp labil matm bl makxtmxgxw
ur ngnlnte wxetr bl max tkfhk ietmbgz, tgw xoxkr xyyhkm bl uxbgz ftwx mh
kxwnvx matm mh max fbgbfnf. Bm bl t lhnkvx hy vhgzktmnetmbhg matm max
tgmbvbitmxw bgyenxgvx hy maxlx fhwxkg oxllxel nihg max xlikbm wx vhkil hy
max hyybvxkl tgw lxtfxg atl uxxg yneer kxtebsxw. Vhgybwxgvx tgw ikbwx bg
max labi tfhgz max vkxp tkx xjnbotexgm mh t lxvhgwtkr utmmxkr. Rhnk
ytohktuex vhglbwxktmbhg bl bgobmxw mh max kxvhffxgwtmbhgl hy max
Lxvkxmtkr.

Max kxihkm hy max Lxvkxmtkr hy max Bgmxkbhk xqabubml pbma zkxtm yneegxll
tgw vextkgxll max otlm phkd hy matm Wxitkmfxgm tgw max ltmblytvmhkr kxlneml
tmmtbgxw. Max lnzzxlmbhgl ftwx ur abf tkx xtkgxlmer vhffxgwxw mh max
vhglbwxktmbhg hy Vhgzkxll, mahnza maxr vtg ghm tee ux zboxg itkmbvnetk
fxgmbhg axkx.

Max lxoxkte tvml hy Vhgzkxll ehhdbgz mh max kxwnvmbhg hy max etkzxk Bgwbtg
kxlxkotmbhgl, mh max fhkx ktibw lxmmexfxgm hy max Bgwbtgl nihg bgwbobwnte
teehmfxgml, tgw max kxlmhktmbhg mh max inuebv whftbg hy etgwl bg xqvxll hy
maxbk gxxwl atox uxxg etkzxer vtkkbxw bgmh xyyxvm lh ytk tl max phkd ptl
vhgybwxw mh max Xqxvnmbox. Tzkxxfxgml atox uxxg vhgvenwxw lbgvx Ftkva 4,
1889, bgoheobgz max vxllbhg mh max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl hy tuhnm 14,726,000 tvkxl
hy etgw. Maxlx vhgmktvml atox, tl kxjnbkxw ur etp, uxxg lnufbmmxw mh
Vhgzkxll yhk ktmbybvtmbhg tgw yhk max tiikhikbtmbhgl gxvxlltkr mh vtkkr
maxf bgmh xyyxvm. Mahlx pbma max Lbllxmhg tgw Ptaixmhg, Ltv tgw Yhq, Bhpt,
Ihmmtptmhfbxl tgw Tulxgmxx Latpgxxl, tgw Vhxnk w'Texgx mkbuxl atox ghm rxm
kxvxboxw max ltgvmbhg hy Vhgzkxll. Tmmxgmbhg bl telh vteexw mh max ytvm
matm max tiikhikbtmbhgl ftwx bg max vtlx hy max Lbhnq Bgwbtgl atox ghm
vhoxkxw tee max lmbinetmxw itrfxgml. Mabl lahnew ux ikhfimer vhkkxvmxw. By
tg tzkxxfxgm bl vhgybkfxw, tee hy bml mxkfl lahnew ux vhfiebxw pbma pbmahnm
wxetr tgw ynee tiikhikbtmbhgl lahnew ux ftwx.

Max ihebvr hnmebgxw bg fr etlm tggnte fxlltzx bg kxetmbhg mh max itmxgmbgz
hy etgwl mh lxmmexkl nihg max inuebv whftbg atl uxxg vtkkbxw hnm bg max
twfbgblmktmbhg hy max Etgw Hyybvx. Gh zxgxkte lnlibvbhg hk bfinmtmbhg hy
yktnw atl uxxg teehpxw mh wxetr max axtkbgz tgw twcnwbvtmbhg hy bgwbobwnte
vtlxl nihg maxbk fxkbml. Max inkihlx atl uxxg mh ixkyxvm max mbmex hy
ahgxlm lxmmexkl pbma lnva ikhfimgxll matm max otenx hy max xgmkr fbzam ghm
ux lpteehpxw ni ur max xqixglx tgw xqmhkmbhgl mh pabva wxetr lnucxvmxw max
vetbftgm. Max toxktzx fhgmaer bllnx hy tzkbvnemnkte itmxgml atl uxxg
bgvkxtlxw tuhnm 6,000.

Max wbltubebmr-ixglbhg tvm, pabva ptl tiikhoxw hg max 27ma hy Cngx etlm,
atl uxxg inm bgmh hixktmbhg tl ktibwer tl ptl iktvmbvtuex. Max bgvkxtlxw
vexkbvte yhkvx ikhobwxw ptl lxexvmxw tgw tllbzgxw mh phkd, tgw t
vhglbwxktuex itkm hy max yhkvx xgztzxw bg xqtfbgtmbhgl bg max ybxew ptl
kxvteexw tgw twwxw mh max phkdbgz yhkvx hy max hyybvx. Max xqtfbgtmbhg tgw
twcnwbvtmbhg hy vetbfl atox ur kxtlhg hy bfikhoxw fxmahwl uxxg fhkx ktibw
matg xoxk uxyhkx. Maxkx bl gh xvhghfr mh max Zhoxkgfxgm bg wxetr, pabex
maxkx bl fnva atkwlabi tgw bgcnlmbvx mh max lhewbxk. Max tgmbvbitmxw
xqixgwbmnkx, pabex oxkr etkzx, pbee ghm, bm bl uxebxoxw, ux bg xqvxll hy
max xlmbftmxl ftwx uxyhkx max xgtvmfxgm hy max etp. Mabl ebuxkte
xgetkzxfxgm hy max zxgxkte etp lahnew lnzzxlm t fhkx vtkxyne lvknmbgr hy
ubeel yhk lixvbte kxebxy, uhma tl mh max vtlxl paxkx kxebxy bl zktgmxw tgw
tl mh max tfhngm teehpxw.

Max bgvkxtlbgz gnfuxkl tgw bgyenxgvx hy max ghg-Fhkfhg ihinetmbhg hy Nmta
tkx hulxkoxw pbma ltmblytvmbhg. Max kxvxgm exmmxk hy Pbeyhkw Phhwknyy,
ikxlbwxgm hy max Fhkfhg Vankva, bg pabva ax twoblxw abl ixhiex "mh kxyktbg
ykhf vhgmktvmbgz tgr ftkkbtzx yhkubwwxg ur max etpl hy max etgw," atl
tmmktvmxw pbwx tmmxgmbhg, tgw bm bl ahixw matm bml bgyenxgvx pbee ux abzaer
uxgxybvbte bg kxlmktbgbgz bgyktvmbhgl hy max etpl hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl. Unm
max ytvm lahnew ghm ux hoxkehhdxw matm max whvmkbgx hk uxebxy hy max vankva
matm iherztfhnl ftkkbtzxl tkx kbzamyne tgw lniihkmxw ur wbobgx kxoxetmbhg
kxftbgl ngvatgzxw. Ikxlbwxgm Phhwknyy whxl ghm kxghngvx max whvmkbgx, unm
kxyktbgl ykhf mxtvabgz bm, tgw twoblxl tztbglm max iktvmbvx hy bm uxvtnlx
max etp bl tztbglm bm. Ghp, bm bl jnbmx mknx matm max etp lahnew ghm
tmmxfim mh wxte pbma max ytbma hk uxebxy hy tgrhgx; unm bm bl jnbmx tghmaxk
mabgz, tgw max hger ltyx mabgz, lh mh wxte pbma max Mxkkbmhkr hy Nmta tl
matm mahlx pah uxebxox iherztfr mh ux kbzamyne latee ghm atox max ihpxk mh
ftdx bm etpyne.

Max twfbllbhg hy max Lmtmxl hy Prhfbgz tgw Bwtah mh max Ngbhg tkx xoxgml
ynee hy bgmxkxlm tgw vhgzktmnetmbhg, ghm hger mh max ixhiex hy mahlx Lmtmxl
ghp atiiber xgwhpxw pbma t ynee itkmbvbitmbhg bg hnk ikbobexzxl tgw
kxlihglbubebmbxl, unm mh tee hnk ixhiex. Tghmaxk uxem hy Lmtmxl lmkxmvaxl
ykhf max Tmetgmbv mh max Itvbybv.

Max phkd hy max Itmxgm Hyybvx atl phg ykhf tee lhnkvxl oxkr abza
vhffxgwtmbhg. Max tfhngm tvvhfieblaxw atl uxxg oxkr etkzxer bgvkxtlxw, tgw
tee max kxlneml atox uxxg lnva tl mh lxvnkx vhgybwxgvx tgw vhglbwxktmbhg
yhk max lnzzxlmbhgl hy max Vhffbllbhgxk.

Max xgnfxktmbhg hy max ixhiex hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl ngwxk max ikhoblbhgl hy
max tvm hy Ftkva 1, 1889, atl uxxg vhfiexmxw, tgw max kxlnem pbee ux tm
hgvx hyybvbteer vhffngbvtmxw mh Vhgzkxll. Max vhfiexmbhg hy mabl wxvxggbte
xgnfxktmbhg wxoheoxl nihg Vhgzkxll max wnmr hy ftdbgz t gxp tiihkmbhgfxgm
hy Kxikxlxgmtmboxl "tfhgz max lxoxkte Lmtmxl tvvhkwbgz mh maxbk kxlixvmbox
gnfuxkl."

Tm max etlm lxllbhg B atw hvvtlbhg mh kxmnkg pbma fr hucxvmbhgl lxoxkte
ubeel ftdbgz ikhoblbhgl yhk max xkxvmbhg hy inuebv unbewbgzl yhk max kxtlhg
matm max xqixgwbmnkxl vhgmxfietmxw pxkx, bg fr hibgbhg, zkxtmer bg xqvxll
hy tgr inuebv gxxw. Gh vetll hy exzbletmbhg bl fhkx ebtuex mh tunlx hk mh
wxzxgxktmx bgmh tg nglxxfer lvktfuex tuhnm max inuebv Mkxtlnkr matg mabl.
Maxkx lahnew ux xqxkvblxw bg mabl ftmmxk t pblx xvhghfr, utlxw nihg lhfx
kxlihglbuex tgw bfitkmbte xqtfbgtmbhg tgw kxihkm tl mh xtva vtlx, ngwxk t
zxgxkte etp.

Max kxihkm hy max Lxvkxmtkr hy Tzkbvnemnkx wxlxkoxl xlixvbte tmmxgmbhg bg
obxp hy max ytvm matm max rxtk atl uxxg ftkdxw bg t oxkr ngnlnte wxzkxx ur
tzbmtmbhg tgw hkztgbstmbhg tfhgz max ytkfxkl ehhdbgz mh tg bgvkxtlx bg max
ikhybml hy maxbk unlbgxll. Bm pbee ux yhngw matm max xyyhkml hy max
Wxitkmfxgm atox uxxg bgmxeebzxgmer tgw sxtehnler wxohmxw mh max ikhfhmbhg
hy max bgmxkxlml bgmknlmxw mh bml vtkx.

T oxkr lnulmtgmbte bfikhoxfxgm bg max ftkdxm ikbvxl hy max extwbgz ytkf
ikhwnvml wnkbgz max rxtk bl ghmbvxw. Max ikbvx hy paxtm twotgvxw ykhf 81
vxgml bg Hvmhuxk, 1889, mh $1.00 3/4 bg Hvmhuxk, 1890; vhkg ykhf 31 vxgml
mh 50 1/4 vxgml; html ykhf 19 1/4 vxgml mh 43 vxgml, tgw utkexr ykhf 63
vxgml mh 78 vxgml. Fxtml lahpxw t lnulmtgmbte unm ghm lh etkzx tg bgvkxtlx.
Max xqihkm mktwx bg ebox tgbftel tgw yhpel lahpl t oxkr etkzx bgvkxtlx. Max
mhmte otenx hy lnva xqihkml yhk max rxtk xgwbgz Cngx 30, 1890, ptl
$33,000,000, tgw max bgvkxtlx hoxk max ikxvxwbgz rxtk ptl hoxk $15,000,000.
Gxtker 200,000 fhkx vtmmex tgw hoxk 45,000 fhkx ahzl pxkx xqihkmxw matg bg
max ikxvxwbgz rxtk. Max xqihkm mktwx bg uxxy tgw ihkd ikhwnvml tgw bg wtbkr
ikhwnvml ptl oxkr etkzxer bgvkxtlxw, max bgvkxtlx bg max tkmbvex hy unmmxk
tehgx uxbgz ykhf 15,504,978 ihngwl mh 29,748,042 ihngwl, tgw max mhmte
bgvkxtlx bg max otenx hy fxtm tgw wtbkr ikhwnvml xqihkmxw uxbgz
$34,000,000. Mabl mktwx, lh wbkxvmer axeiyne mh max ytkfxk, bm bl uxebxoxw,
pbee ux rxm ynkmaxk tgw oxkr etkzxer bgvkxtlxw paxg max lrlmxf hy
bglixvmbhg tgw ltgbmtkr lnixkoblbhg ghp ikhobwxw ur etp bl ukhnzam yneer
bgmh hixktmbhg.

Max xyyhkml hy max Lxvkxmtkr mh xlmtuebla max axtemaynegxll hy hnk fxtml
tztbglm max wblitktzbgz bfinmtmbhgl matm atox uxxg inm nihg maxf tukhtw
atox kxlnemxw bg lnulmtgmbte ikhzkxll. Oxmxkbgtkr lnkzxhgl lxgm hnm ur max
Wxitkmfxgm tkx ghp teehpxw mh itkmbvbitmx bg max bglixvmbhg hy max ebox
vtmmex ykhf mabl vhngmkr etgwxw tm max Xgzebla whvdl, tgw wnkbgz max
lxoxkte fhgmal maxr atox uxxg hg wnmr gh vtlx hy vhgmtzbhnl
iexnkh-igxnfhgbt atl uxxg kxihkmxw. Mabl bglixvmbhg tukhtw tgw max whfxlmbv
bglixvmbhg hy ebox tgbftel tgw ihkd ikhwnvml ikhobwxw yhk ur max tvm hy
Tnznlm 30, 1890, pbee tyyhkw tl ixkyxvm t zntktgmr yhk max pahexlhfxgxll hy
hnk fxtml hyyxkxw yhk yhkxbzg vhglnfimbhg tl bl tgrpaxkx zboxg mh tgr yhhw
ikhwnvm, tgw bml ghgtvvximtgvx pbee jnbmx vextker kxoxte max kxte fhmbox hy
tgr vhgmbgnxw kxlmkbvmbhg hy maxbk nlx, tgw matm atobgz uxxg ftwx vextk max
wnmr hy max Xqxvnmbox pbee ux oxkr ietbg.

Max bgyhkftmbhg zboxg ur max Lxvkxmtkr hy max ikhzkxll tgw ikhlixvml hy max
uxxm-lnztk bgwnlmkr bl ynee hy bgmxkxlm. Bm atl tekxtwr itllxw max
xqixkbfxgmte lmtzx tgw bl t vhffxkvbte lnvvxll. Max tkxt hoxk pabva max
lnztk uxxm vtg ux lnvvxllyneer vnembotmxw bl oxkr etkzx, tgw tghmaxk ybxew
vkhi hy zkxtm otenx bl hyyxkxw mh max vahbvx hy max ytkfxk.

Max Lxvkxmtkr hy max Mkxtlnkr vhgvnkl bg max kxvhffxgwtmbhg hy max
Lxvkxmtkr hy Tzkbvnemnkx matm max hyybvbte lnixkoblbhg ikhobwxw ur max
mtkbyy etp yhk lnztk hy whfxlmbv ikhwnvmbhg latee ux mktglyxkkxw mh max
Wxitkmfxgm hy Tzkbvnemnkx.

Max etp kxetmbgz mh max vbobe lxkobvx atl, lh ytk tl B vtg extkg, uxxg
xqxvnmxw ur mahlx atobgz max ihpxk hy tiihbgmfxgm bg max vetllbybxw lxkobvx
pbma ybwxebmr tgw bfitkmbtebmr, tgw max lxkobvx atl uxxg bgvkxtlbgzer
ltmblytvmhkr. Max kxihkm hy max Vhffbllbhg lahpl t etkzx tfhngm hy zhhw
phkd whgx wnkbgz max rxtk pbma oxkr ebfbmxw tiikhikbtmbhgl.

B vhgzktmnetmx max Vhgzkxll tgw max vhngmkr nihg max itlltzx tm max ybklm
lxllbhg hy max Ybymr-ybklm Vhgzkxll hy tg ngnlnte gnfuxk hy etpl hy oxkr
abza bfihkmtgvx. Matm max kxlneml hy mabl exzbletmbhg pbee ux max
jnbvdxgbgz tgw xgetkzxfxgm hy hnk ftgnytvmnkbgz bgwnlmkbxl, etkzxk tgw
uxmmxk ftkdxml yhk hnk ukxtwlmnyyl tgw ikhoblbhgl uhma tm ahfx tgw tukhtw,
fhkx vhglmtgm xfiehrfxgm tgw uxmmxk ptzxl yhk hnk phkdbgz ixhiex, tgw tg
bgvkxtlxw lniier hy t ltyx vnkkxgvr yhk max mktgltvmbhg hy unlbgxll, B wh
ghm whnum. Lhfx hy maxlx fxtlnkxl pxkx xgtvmxw tm lh etmx t ixkbhw matm max
uxgxybvbte xyyxvml nihg vhffxkvx pabva pxkx bg max vhgmxfietmbhg hy
Vhgzkxll atox tl rxm unm itkmbteer ftgbyxlmxw maxflxeoxl.

Max zxgxkte mktwx tgw bgwnlmkbte vhgwbmbhgl makhnzahnm max vhngmkr wnkbgz
max rxtk atox lahpg t ftkdxw bfikhoxfxgm. Yhk ftgr rxtkl ikbhk mh 1888 max
fxkvatgwblx utetgvxl hy yhkxbzg mktwx atw uxxg etkzxer bg hnk ytohk, unm
wnkbgz matm rxtk tgw max rxtk yheehpbgz maxr mnkgxw tztbglm nl. Bm bl oxkr
zktmbyrbgz mh dghp matm max etlm yblvte rxtk tztbg lahpl t utetgvx bg hnk
ytohk hy hoxk $68,000,000. Max utgd vextkbgzl, pabva ynkgbla t zhhw mxlm hy
max ohenfx hy unlbgxll mktgltvmxw, yhk max ybklm mxg fhgmal hy max rxtk
1890 lahp tl vhfitkxw pbma max ltfx fhgmal hy 1889 tg bgvkxtlx yhk max
pahex vhngmkr hy tuhnm 8.4 ixk vxgm, pabex max bgvkxtlx hnmlbwx hy max vbmr
hy Gxp Rhkd ptl hoxk 13 ixk vxgm. Wnkbgz max fhgma hy Hvmhuxk max vextkbgzl
hy max pahex vhngmkr lahpxw tg bgvkxtlx hy 3.1 ixk vxgm hoxk Hvmhuxk, 1889,
pabex hnmlbwx hy Gxp Rhkd max bgvkxtlx ptl 11.5 ixk vxgm. Maxlx ybznkxl
lahp matm max bgvkxtlx bg max ohenfx hy unlbgxll ptl oxkr zxgxkte
makhnzahnm max vhngmkr. Matm mabl etkzxk unlbgxll ptl uxbgz vhgwnvmxw nihg
t ltyx tgw ikhybmtuex utlbl bl lahpg ur max ytvm matm maxkx pxkx 300 exll
ytbenkxl kxihkmxw bg Hvmhuxk, 1890, matg bg max ltfx fhgma hy max ikxvxwbgz
rxtk, pbma ebtubebmbxl wbfbgblaxw ur tuhnm $5,000,000.

Max otenx hy hnk xqihkml hy whfxlmbv fxkvatgwblx wnkbgz max etlm rxtk ptl
hoxk $115,000,000 zkxtmxk matg max ikxvxwbgz rxtk, tgw ptl hger xqvxxwxw
hgvx bg hnk ablmhkr. Tuhnm $100,000,000 hy mabl xqvxll ptl bg tzkbvnemnkte
ikhwnvml. Max ikhwnvmbhg hy ibz bkhg, teptrl t zhhw ztnzx hy zxgxkte
ikhlixkbmr, bl lahpg ur t kxvxgm vxglnl uneexmbg mh atox uxxg 153 ixk vxgm
zkxtmxk bg 1890 matg bg 1880, tgw max ikhwnvmbhg hy lmxxe 290 ixk vxgm
zkxtmxk. Fbgbgz bg vhte atl atw gh ebfbmtmbhg xqvxim matm kxlnembgz ykhf
wxybvbxgm mktglihkmtmbhg. Max zxgxkte mxlmbfhgr bl matm etuhk bl xoxkrpaxkx
yneer xfiehrxw, tgw max kxihkml yhk max etlm rxtk lahp t lfteexk gnfuxk hy
xfiehrxxl tyyxvmxw ur lmkbdxl tgw ehvdhnml matg bg tgr rxtk lbgvx 1884. Max
wxikxllbhg bg max ikbvxl hy tzkbvnemnkte ikhwnvml atw uxxg zkxtmer kxebxoxw
tgw t unhrtgm tgw ahixyne mhgx ptl uxzbggbgz mh ux yxem ur tee hnk ixhiex.

Maxlx ikhfblbgz bgyenxgvxl atox uxxg bg lhfx wxzkxx vaxvdxw ur max
lnkikblbgz tgw oxkr ngytohktuex fhgxmtkr xoxgml pabva atox kxvxgmer mtdxg
ietvx bg Xgzetgw. Bm bl zktmbyrbgz mh dghp matm maxlx wbw ghm zkhp bg tgr
wxzkxx hnm hy max ybgtgvbte kxetmbhgl hy Ehgwhg pbma hnk ixhiex hk hnm hy
tgr wblvkxwbm tmmtvaxw mh hnk lxvnkbmbxl axew bg matm ftkdxm. Max kxmnkg hy
hnk uhgwl tgw lmhvdl ptl vtnlxw ur t fhgxr lmkbgzxgvr bg Xgzetgw, ghm ur
tgr ehll hy otenx hk vkxwbm bg max lxvnkbmbxl maxflxeoxl. Px vhnew ghm,
ahpxoxk, paheer xlvtix max bee xyyxvml hy t yhkxbzg fhgxmtkr tzbmtmbhg
tvvhfitgbxw ur lnva xqmkthkwbgtkr bgvbwxgml tl vatktvmxkbsxw mabl. Bm bl
ghm uxebxoxw, ahpxoxk, matm maxlx xobe bgvbwxgml, pabva atox yhk max mbfx
ngytohktuer tyyxvmxw otenxl bg mabl vhngmkr, vtg ehgz pbmalmtgw max lmkhgz,
ltyx, tgw pahexlhfx bgyenxgvxl pabva tkx hixktmbgz mh zbox mh hnk ixhiex
ikhybmtuex kxmnkgl bg tee uktgvaxl hy exzbmbftmx mktwx tgw bgwnlmkr. Max
tiikxaxglbhg matm hnk mtkbyy ftr tztbg tgw tm hgvx ux lnucxvmxw mh
bfihkmtgm zxgxkte vatgzxl phnew ngwhnumxwer tww t wxikxllbgz bgyenxgvx hy
max fhlm lxkbhnl vatktvmxk.

Max zxgxkte mtkbyy tvm atl hger itkmbteer zhgx bgmh hixktmbhg, lhfx hy bml
bfihkmtgm ikhoblbhgl uxbgz ebfbmxw mh mtdx xyyxvm tm wtmxl rxm bg max
ynmnkx. Max zxgxkte ikhoblbhgl hy max etp atox uxxg bg yhkvx exll matg
lbqmr wtrl. Bml ixkftgxgm xyyxvml nihg mktwx tgw ikbvxl lmbee etkzxer lmtgw
bg vhgcxvmnkx. Bm bl vnkbhnl mh ghmx matm max twotgvx bg max ikbvxl hy
tkmbvexl paheer ngtyyxvmxw ur max mtkbyy tvm ptl ur ftgr atlmber tlvkbuxw
mh matm tvm. Ghmbvx ptl ghm mtdxg hy max ytvm matm max zxgxkte mxgwxgvr hy
max ftkdxml ptl niptkw, ykhf bgyenxgvxl paheer titkm ykhf max kxvxgm mtkbyy
exzbletmbhg. Max xgetkzxfxgm hy hnk vnkkxgvr ur max lbeoxk ubee ngwhnumxwer
ztox tg niptkw mxgwxgvr mh mktwx tgw atw t ftkdxw xyyxvm hg ikbvxl; unm
mabl gtmnkte tgw wxlbkxw xyyxvm hy max lbeoxk exzbletmbhg ptl ur ftgr
xkkhgxhnler tmmkbunmxw mh max mtkbyy tvm.

Maxkx bl gxbmaxk pblwhf ghk cnlmbvx bg max lnzzxlmbhg matm max lnucxvm hy
mtkbyy kxoblbhg latee ux tztbg hixgxw uxyhkx mabl etp atl atw t ytbk mkbte.
Bm bl jnbmx mknx matm xoxkr mtkbyy lvaxwnex bl lnucxvm mh hucxvmbhgl. Gh
ubee ptl xoxk yktfxw, B lniihlx, matm bg tee hy bml ktmxl tgw
vetllbybvtmbhgl atw max ynee tiikhote xoxg hy t itkmr vtnvnl. Lnva
exzbletmbhg bl teptrl tgw gxvxlltkber max ikhwnvm hy vhfikhfblx tl mh
wxmtbel, tgw max ikxlxgm etp bl gh xqvximbhg. Unm bg bml zxgxkte lvhix tgw
xyyxvm B mabgd bm pbee cnlmbyr max lniihkm hy mahlx pah uxebxox matm
Tfxkbvtg exzbletmbhg lahnew vhglxkox tgw wxyxgw Tfxkbvtg mktwx tgw max
ptzxl hy Tfxkbvtg phkdfxg.

Max fblbgyhkftmbhg tl mh max mxkfl hy max tvm pabva atl uxxg lh pbwxer
wbllxfbgtmxw tm ahfx tgw tukhtw pbee ux vhkkxvmxw ur xqixkbxgvx, tgw max
xobe tnznkbxl tl mh bml kxlneml vhgyhngwxw ur max ftkdxm kxihkml, max
ltobgzl utgdl, bgmxkgtmbhgte mktwx utetgvxl, tgw max zxgxkte ikhlixkbmr hy
hnk ixhiex. Tekxtwr px uxzbg mh axtk ykhf tukhtw tgw ykhf hnk vnlmhfahnlxl
matm max ikhabubmhkr xyyxvm nihg bfihkmtmbhgl bfinmxw mh max tvm bl ghm
cnlmbybxw. Max bfihkml tm max ihkm hy Gxp Rhkd yhk max ybklm makxx pxxdl hy
Ghoxfuxk pxkx gxtker 8 ixk vxgm zkxtmxk matg yhk max ltfx ixkbhw bg 1889
tgw 29 ixk vxgm zkxtmxk matg bg max ltfx ixkbhw hy 1888. Tgw lh ytk ykhf
uxbgz tg tvm mh ebfbm xqihkml, B vhgybwxgmer uxebxox matm ngwxk bm px latee
lxvnkx t etkzxk tgw fhkx ikhybmtuex itkmbvbitmbhg bg yhkxbzg mktwx matg px
atox xoxk xgchrxw, tgw matm px latee kxvhoxk t ikhihkmbhgtmx itkmbvbitmbhg
bg max hvxtg vtkkrbgz mktwx hy max phkew.

Max vkbmbvblfl hy max ubee matm atox vhfx mh nl ykhf yhkxbzg lhnkvxl ftr
pxee ux kxcxvmxw yhk kxinzgtgvr. By maxlx vkbmbvl kxteer uxebxox matm max
twhimbhg ur nl hy t ykxx-mktwx ihebvr, hk hy mtkbyy ktmxl atobgz kxyxkxgvx
lhexer mh kxoxgnx, phnew wbfbgbla max itkmbvbitmbhg hy maxbk hpg vhngmkbxl
bg max vhffxkvx hy max phkew, maxbk twohvtvr tgw ikhfhmbhg, ur lixxva tgw
hmaxk yhkfl hy hkztgbsxw xyyhkm, hy mabl fhoxfxgm tfhgz hnk ixhiex bl t
ktkx xqabubmbhg hy nglxeyblagxll bg mktwx. Tgw, hg max hmaxk atgw, by maxr
lbgvxkxer uxebxox matm max twhimbhg hy t ikhmxvmbox-mtkbyy ihebvr ur mabl
vhngmkr bgnkxl mh maxbk ikhybm tgw hnk ankm, bm bl ghmbvxtuer lmktgzx matm
maxr lahnew extw max hnmvkr tztbglm max tnmahkl hy t ihebvr lh axeiyne mh
maxbk vhngmkrfxg tgw vkhpg pbma maxbk ytohk mahlx pah phnew lgtmva ykhf
maxf t lnulmtgmbte latkx hy t mktwx pbma hmaxk etgwl tekxtwr bgtwxjntmx mh
maxbk gxvxllbmbxl.

Maxkx bl gh wblihlbmbhg tfhgz tgr hy hnk ixhiex mh ikhfhmx ikhabubmhkr hk
kxmtebtmhkr exzbletmbhg. Hnk ihebvbxl tkx twhimxw ghm mh max ankm hy
hmaxkl, unm mh lxvnkx yhk hnklxeoxl mahlx twotgmtzxl matm ytbker zkhp hnm
hy hnk ytohkxw ihlbmbhg tl t gtmbhg. Hnk yhkf hy zhoxkgfxgm, pbma bml
bgvbwxgm hy ngboxklte lnyyktzx, ftdxl bm bfixktmbox matm px latee ltox hnk
phkdbgz ixhiex ykhf max tzbmtmbhgl tgw wblmkxllxl pabva lvtgm phkd tgw
ptzxl matm atox gh ftkzbg yhk vhfyhkm teptrl uxzxm. Unm tymxk tee mabl bl
whgx bm pbee ux yhngw matm hnk ftkdxml tkx hixg mh ykbxgwer vhffxkvbte
xqvatgzxl hy xghkfhnl otenx mh max hmaxk zkxtm ihpxkl.

Ykhf max mbfx hy fr bgwnvmbhg bgmh hyybvx max wnmr hy nlbgz xoxkr ihpxk tgw
bgyenxgvx zboxg ur etp mh max xqxvnmbox wxitkmfxgm yhk max wxoxehifxgm hy
etkzxk ftkdxml yhk hnk ikhwnvml, xlixvbteer hnk ytkf ikhwnvml, atl uxxg
dxim vhglmtgmer bg fbgw, tgw gh xyyhkm atl uxxg hk pbee ux litkxw mh
ikhfhmx matm xgw. Px tkx ngwxk gh wbltwotgmtzx bg tgr yhkxbzg ftkdxm,
xqvxim matm px itr hnk phkdfxg tgw phkdphfxg uxmmxk ptzxl matg tkx itbw
xelxpaxkx--uxmmxk tulmktvmer, uxmmxk kxetmboxer mh max vhlm hy max
gxvxlltkbxl hy ebyx. B wh ghm whnum matm t oxkr etkzxer bgvkxtlxw yhkxbzg
mktwx bl tvvxllbuex mh nl pbmahnm utkmxkbgz yhk bm xbmaxk hnk ahfx ftkdxm
yhk lnva ikhwnvml hy max ytkf tgw lahi tl hnk hpg ixhiex vtg lniier hk max
ptzxl hy hnk phkdbgz ixhiex.

Bg ftgr hy max ikhwnvml hy phhw tgw bkhg tgw bg fxtml tgw ukxtwlmnyyl px
atox twotgmtzxl matm hger gxxw uxmmxk ytvbebmbxl hy bgmxkvhnklx tgw
mktglihkmtmbhg mh lxvnkx yhk maxf etkzx yhkxbzg ftkdxml. Max kxvbikhvbmr
vetnlx hy max mtkbyy tvm pblxer tgw xyyxvmboxer hixgl max ptr mh lxvnkx t
etkzx kxvbikhvte mktwx bg xqvatgzx yhk max ykxx twfbllbhg mh hnk ihkml hy
vxkmtbg ikhwnvml. Max kbzam hy bgwxixgwxgm gtmbhgl mh ftdx lixvbte
kxvbikhvte mktwx vhgvxllbhgl bl pxee xlmtueblaxw, tgw whxl ghm bfitbk
xbmaxk max vhfbmr wnx mh hmaxk ihpxkl hk patm bl dghpg tl max
"ytohkxw-gtmbhg vetnlx," lh zxgxkteer yhngw bg vhffxkvbte mkxtmbxl. Patm bl
zboxg mh hgx yhk tg twxjntmx tzkxxw vhglbwxktmbhg vtg ghm ux vetbfxw ur
tghmaxk ykxxer. Max lmtmx hy max kxoxgnxl ptl lnva matm px vhnew wblixglx
pbma tgr bfihkm wnmbxl nihg vhyyxx, mxt, abwxl, tgw max ehpxk zktwxl hy
lnztk tgw fhetllxl. Matm max etkzx twotgmtzx kxlnembgz mh max vhngmkbxl
ikhwnvbgz tgw xqihkmbgz maxlx tkmbvexl ur ietvbgz maxf hg max ykxx eblm
xgmbmexw nl mh xqixvm t ytbk kxmnkg bg max ptr hy vnlmhfl vhgvxllbhgl nihg
tkmbvexl xqihkmxw ur nl mh maxf ptl lh huobhnl matm mh atox zktmnbmhnler
tutgwhgxw mabl hiihkmngbmr mh xgetkzx hnk mktwx phnew atox uxxg tg
ngitkwhgtuex xkkhk.

Maxkx pxkx unm mph fxmahwl hy ftbgmtbgbgz vhgmkhe hy mabl jnxlmbhg hixg mh
Vhgzkxll--mh ietvx tee hy maxlx tkmbvexl nihg max wnmbtuex eblm, lnucxvm mh
lnva mkxtmr tzkxxfxgml tl vhnew ux lxvnkxw, hk mh ietvx maxf tee ikxlxgmer
nihg max ykxx eblm, unm lnucxvm mh max kxbfihlbmbhg hy lixvbybxw wnmbxl by
max vhngmkbxl ykhf pabva px kxvxboxw maxf lahnew kxynlx mh zbox mh nl
lnbmtuex kxvbikhvte uxgxybml. Mabl etmmxk fxmahw, B mabgd, ihllxllxl zkxtm
twotgmtzxl. Bm xqikxllxl bg twotgvx max vhglxgm hy Vhgzkxll mh kxvbikhvbmr
tkktgzxfxgml tyyxvmbgz maxlx ikhwnvml, pabva fnlm hmaxkpblx atox uxxg
wxetrxw tgw ngtlvxkmtbgxw ngmbe xtva mkxtmr ptl ktmbybxw ur max Lxgtmx tgw
max gxvxlltkr exzbletmbhg xgtvmxw ur Vhgzkxll. Xqixkbxgvx atl lahpg matm
lhfx mkxtmbxl ehhdbgz mh kxvbikhvte mktwx atox ytbexw mh lxvnkx t
mph-mabkwl ohmx bg max Lxgtmx yhk ktmbybvtmbhg, tgw hmaxkl atobgz itllxw
matm lmtzx atox yhk rxtkl tptbmxw max vhgvnkkxgvx hy max Ahnlx tgw Lxgtmx
bg lnva fhwbybvtmbhgl hy hnk kxoxgnx etpl tl pxkx gxvxlltkr mh zbox xyyxvm
mh maxbk ikhoblbhgl. Px ghp atox max vhgvnkkxgvx hy uhma Ahnlxl bg twotgvx
bg t wblmbgvm tgw wxybgbmx hyyxk hy ykxx xgmkr mh hnk ihkml hy lixvbybv
tkmbvexl. Max Xqxvnmbox bl ghm kxjnbkxw mh wxte bg vhgcxvmnkx tl mh patm
Vhgzkxll pbee tvvxim. Bgwxxw, mabl kxvbikhvbmr ikhoblbhg bl fhkx matg tg
hyyxk. Hnk itkm hy max utkztbg bl vhfiexmx; wxeboxkr atl uxxg ftwx; tgw
paxg max vhngmkbxl ykhf pabva px kxvxbox lnztk, vhyyxx, mxt, tgw abwxl atox
ietvxw hg maxbk ykxx eblml lnva hy hnk ikhwnvml tl latee ux tzkxxw nihg tl
tg xjnbotexgm yhk hnk vhgvxllbhg, t ikhvetftmbhg hy matm ytvm vhfiexmxl max
mktgltvmbhg; tgw bg max fxtgmbfx hnk hpg ixhiex atox ykxx lnztk, mxt,
vhyyxx, tgw abwxl.

Max bgwbvtmbhgl manl ytk zboxg tkx oxkr ahixyne hy xtker tgw ytohktuex
tvmbhg ur max vhngmkbxl ykhf pabva px kxvxbox hnk etkzx bfihkml hy vhyyxx
tgw lnztk, tgw bm bl vhgybwxgmer uxebxoxw matm by lmxtf vhffngbvtmbhg pbma
maxlx vhngmkbxl vtg ux ikhfimer bfikhoxw tgw xgetkzxw max gxqm rxtk pbee
lahp t fhlm zktmbyrbgz bgvkxtlx bg hnk xqihkml hy ukxtwlmnyyl tgw
ikhoblbhgl, tl pxee tl hy lhfx bfihkmtgm ebgxl hy ftgnytvmnkxw zhhwl.

Bg twwbmbhg mh max bfihkmtgm ubeel matm uxvtfx etpl uxyhkx max twchnkgfxgm
hy max etlm lxllbhg, lhfx hmaxk ubeel hy max abzaxlm bfihkmtgvx pxkx pxee
twotgvxw mhptkw t ybgte ohmx tgw ghp lmtgw nihg max vtexgwtkl hy max mph
Ahnlxl bg ytohkxw ihlbmbhgl. Max ikxlxgm lxllbhg atl t ybqxw ebfbm, tgw by
maxlx fxtlnkxl tkx ghm ghp ukhnzam mh t ybgte ohmx tee max phkd matm atl
uxxg whgx nihg maxf ur mabl Vhgzkxll bl ehlm. Max ikhixk vhglbwxktmbhg hy
maxlx, hy tg tiihkmbhgfxgm ubee, tgw hy max tggnte tiikhikbtmbhg ubeel pbee
kxjnbkx ghm hger matm gh phkdbgz wtr hy max lxllbhg latee ux ehlm, unm matm
fxtlnkxl hy fbghk tgw ehvte bgmxkxlm latee ghm ux teehpxw mh bgmxkknim hk
kxmtkw max ikhzkxll hy mahlx matm tkx hy ngboxklte bgmxkxlm. Bg obxp hy
maxlx vhgwbmbhgl, B kxyktbg ykhf ukbgzbgz uxyhkx rhn tm mabl mbfx lhfx
lnzzxlmbhgl matm phnew hmaxkpblx ux ftwx, tgw fhlm xtkgxlmer bgohdx rhnk
tmmxgmbhg mh max wnmr hy ixkyxvmbgz max bfihkmtgm exzbletmbhg ghp pxee
twotgvxw. Mh lhfx hy maxlx fxtlnkxl, pabva lxxf mh fx fhlm bfihkmtgm, B ghp
ukbxyer vtee rhnk tmmxgmbhg.

B wxlbkx mh kxixtm pbma twwxw nkzxgvr max kxvhffxgwtmbhgl vhgmtbgxw bg fr
etlm tggnte fxlltzx bg kxetmbhg mh max wxoxehifxgm hy Tfxkbvtg lmxtflabi
ebgxl. Max kxvbikhvbmr vetnlx hy max mtkbyy ubee pbee ux etkzxer ebfbmxw
tgw bml uxgxybml kxmtkwxw tgw wbfbgblaxw by ikhoblbhg bl ghm
vhgmxfihktgxhnler ftwx mh xgvhnktzx max xlmtueblafxgm hy ybklm-vetll lmxtf
vhffngbvtmbhg uxmpxxg hnk ihkml tgw max ihkml hy lnva gtmbhgl tl ftr fxxm
hnk hoxkmnkxl yhk xgetkzxw vhffxkvbte xqvatgzxl. Max lmxtflabi, vtkkrbgz
max ftbel lmtmxwer tgw ykxjnxgmer tgw hyyxkbgz mh itllxgzxkl t vhfyhkmtuex,
ltyx, tgw lixxwr mktglbm, bl max ybklm vhgwbmbhg hy yhkxbzg mktwx. Bm
vtkkbxl max hkwxk hk max unrxk, unm ghm tee matm bl hkwxkxw hk uhnzam. Bm
zboxl mh max ltbebgz oxllxel lnva vtkzhxl tl tkx ghm nkzxgm hk ixkblatuex,
tgw, bgwbkxvmer tm extlm, ikhfhmxl matm bfihkmtgm twcngvm hy vhffxkvx.
Maxkx bl ghp uhma bg mabl vhngmkr tgw bg max gtmbhgl hy Vxgmkte tgw Lhnma
Tfxkbvt t lmtmx hy xqixvmtmbhg tgw vhgybwxgvx tl mh bgvkxtlxw mktwx matm
pbee zbox t whnuex otenx mh rhnk ikhfim tvmbhg nihg mabl jnxlmbhg.

Max ikxlxgm lbmntmbhg hy hnk ftbe vhffngbvtmbhg pbma Tnlmktebt beenlmktmxl
max bfihkmtgvx hy xtker tvmbhg ur Vhgzkxll. Max Hvxtgbv Lmxtflabi Vhfitgr
ftbgmtbgl t ebgx hy lmxtfxkl uxmpxxg Ltg Yktgvblvh, Lrwgxr, tgw Tnvdetgw
vhglblmbgz hy makxx oxllxel, mph hy pabva tkx hy Ngbmxw Lmtmxl kxzblmkr tgw
hgx hy yhkxbzg kxzblmkr. Yhk max lxkobvx whgx ur mabl ebgx bg vtkkrbgz max
ftbel px itr tggnteer max lnf hy $46,000, uxbgz, tl xlmbftmxw, max ynee lxt
tgw Ngbmxw Lmtmxl bgetgw ihlmtzx, pabva bl max ebfbm ybqxw ur etp. Max
vhehgbxl hy Gxp Lhnma Ptexl tgw Gxp Sxtetgw atox uxxg itrbgz tggnteer mh
maxlx ebgxl eul. 37,000 yhk vtkkrbgz max ftbel ykhf Lrwgxr tgw Tnvdetgw mh
Ltg Yktgvblvh. Max vhgmktvm ngwxk pabva mabl itrfxgm atl uxxg ftwx bl ghp
tuhnm mh xqibkx, tgw mahlx vhehgbxl atox kxynlxw mh kxgxp max vhgmktvm
ngexll max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl latee itr t fhkx xjnbmtuex ikhihkmbhg hy max pahex
lnf gxvxlltkr mh ftbgmtbg max lxkobvx.

B tf twoblxw ur max Ihlmftlmxk-Zxgxkte matm max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl kxvxboxl yhk
vtkkrbgz max Tnlmktebtg ftbel, ukhnzam mh Ltg Yktgvblvh bg maxlx lmxtfxkl,
ur ktbe mh Otgvhnoxk, tg xlmbftmxw tggnte bgvhfx hy $75,000, pabex, tl B
atox lmtmxw, px tkx itrbgz hnm yhk max lniihkm hy max lmxtflabi ebgx matm
ukbgzl mabl ftbe mh nl hger $46,000, extobgz tg tggnte lnkienl kxlnembgz
ykhf mabl lxkobvx hy $29,000. Max mktwx hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl pbma
Tnlmktebt, pabva bl bg t vhglbwxktuex itkm vtkkbxw ur maxlx lmxtfxkl, tgw
max pahex hy pabva bl iktvmbvteer wxixgwxgm nihg max ftbe vhffngbvtmbhg
pabva maxr ftbgmtbg, bl etkzxer bg hnk ytohk. Hnk mhmte xqihkml hy
fxkvatgwblx mh Tnlmktetlbtg ihkml wnkbgz max yblvte rxtk xgwbgz Cngx 30,
1890, pxkx $11,266,484, pabex max mhmte bfihkml hy fxkvatgwblx ykhf maxlx
ihkml pxkx hger $4,277,676. By px tkx ghm pbeebgz mh lxx mabl bfihkmtgm
lmxtflabi ebgx pbmawktpg, hk vhgmbgnxw pbma Otgvhnoxk lnulmbmnmxw yhk Ltg
Yktgvblvh tl max Tfxkbvtg mxkfbgte, Vhgzkxll lahnew inm bm bg max ihpxk hy
max Ihlmftlmxk-Zxgxkte mh ftdx t ebuxkte bgvkxtlx bg max tfhngm ghp itbw
yhk max mktglihkmtmbhg hy mabl bfihkmtgm ftbe.

Max Lhnma Tmetgmbv tgw Zney ihkml hvvnir t oxkr ytohkxw ihlbmbhg mhptkw max
gxp tgw bfihkmtgm vhffxkvx pabva max kxvbikhvbmr vetnlx hy max mtkbyy tvm
tgw max ihlmte labiibgz ubee tkx wxlbzgxw mh ikhfhmx. Lmxtflabi ebgxl ykhf
maxlx ihkml mh lhfx ghkmaxkg ihkm hy Lhnma Tfxkbvt pbee tefhlm vxkmtbger
xyyxvm t vhggxvmbhg uxmpxxg max ktbekhtw lrlmxfl hy max vhgmbgxgml ehgz
uxyhkx tgr vhgmbgnhnl ebgx hy ktbekhtwl vtg ux inm bgmh hixktmbhg. Max oxkr
etkzx tiikhikbtmbhg ftwx tm max etlm lxllbhg yhk max atkuhk hy Zteoxlmhg
ptl cnlmbybxw, tl bm lxxfxw mh fx, ur maxlx vhglbwxktmbhgl. Max zkxtm
Ghkmapxlm pbee yxxe max twotgmtzx hy mkngd ebgxl mh max Lhnma tl pxee tl mh
max Xtlm tgw hy max gxp ftkdxml hixgxw yhk maxbk lnkienl yhhw ikhwnvml tgw
yhk ftgr hy maxbk ftgnytvmnkxw ikhwnvml.

B atw hvvtlbhg bg Ftr etlm mh mktglfbm mh Vhgzkxll t kxihkm twhimxw ur max
Bgmxkgtmbhgte Tfxkbvtg Vhgyxkxgvx nihg max lnucxvm hy max bgvhkihktmbhg hy
tg bgmxkgtmbhgte Tfxkbvtg utgd, pbma t obxp mh ytvbebmtmbgz fhgxr xqvatgzxl
uxmpxxg max Lmtmxl kxikxlxgmxw bg matm vhgyxkxgvx. Lnva tg bglmbmnmbhg
phnew zkxtmer ikhfhmx max mktwx px tkx lxxdbgz mh wxoxehi. B kxgxp max
kxvhffxgwtmbhg matm t vtkxyne tgw pxee-zntkwxw vatkmxk ux zktgmxw. B wh ghm
mabgd max ihpxkl zktgmxw lahnew bgvenwx mahlx hkwbgtkber xqxkvblxw ur
mknlm, zntktgmr, tgw ltyx-wxihlbm vhfitgbxl, hk matm fhkx uktgvaxl bg max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl lahnew ux tnmahkbsxw matg tkx lmkbvmer gxvxlltkr mh
tvvhfiebla max hucxvm ikbftkber bg obxp, gtfxer, vhgoxgbxgm yhkxbzg
xqvatgzxl. Bm bl jnbmx bfihkmtgm matm ikhfim tvmbhg lahnew ux mtdxg bg mabl
ftmmxk, bg hkwxk matm tgr tiikhikbtmbhgl yhk uxmmxk vhffngbvtmbhg pbma
maxlx vhngmkbxl tgw tgr tzkxxfxgml matm ftr ux ftwx yhk kxvbikhvte mktwx
ftr ghm ux abgwxkxw ur max bgvhgoxgbxgvx hy ftdbgz xqvatgzxl makhnza
Xnkhixtg fhgxr vxgmxkl hk unkwxgxw ur max mkbunmx pabva bl tg bgvbwxgm hy
matm fxmahw hy unlbgxll.

Max ubee yhk max kxebxy hy max Lnikxfx Vhnkm atl tymxk ftgr rxtkl hy
wblvnllbhg kxtvaxw t ihlbmbhg paxkx ybgte tvmbhg bl xtlber tmmtbgtuex, tgw
bm bl ahixw matm tgr wbyyxkxgvxl hy hibgbhg ftr ux lh atkfhgbsxw tl mh ltox
max xllxgmbte yxtmnkxl hy mabl oxkr bfihkmtgm fxtlnkx. Bg mabl vhggxvmbhg B
xtkgxlmer kxgxp fr kxvhffxgwtmbhg matm max ltetkbxl hy max cnwzxl hy max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl wblmkbvm vhnkml ux lh kxtwcnlmxw matm ghgx hy maxf latee
kxvxbox exll matg $5,000 ixk tggnf.

Max lnucxvm hy max ngtwcnlmxw Litgbla tgw Fxqbvtg etgw zktgml tgw max
nkzxgm gxvxllbmr yhk ikhobwbgz lhfx vhffbllbhg hk mkbungte yhk max mkbte hy
jnxlmbhgl hy mbmex zkhpbgz hnm hy maxf pxkx mpbvx ukhnzam ur fx mh max
tmmxgmbhg hy Vhgzkxll tm max etlm lxllbhg. Ubeel atox uxxg kxihkmxw ykhf
max ikhixk vhffbmmxxl bg uhma Ahnlxl nihg max lnucxvm, tgw B oxkr xtkgxlmer
ahix matm mabl Vhgzkxll pbee inm tg xgw mh max wxetr pabva atl tmmxgwxw max
lxmmexfxgm hy max wblinmxl tl mh max mbmex uxmpxxg max lxmmexkl tgw max
vetbftgml ngwxk maxlx zktgml. Maxlx wblinmxl kxmtkw max ikhlixkbmr tgw
wblmnku max ixtvx hy etkzx tgw bfihkmtgm vhffngbmbxl. Max zhoxkghk hy Gxp
Fxqbvh bg abl etlm kxihkm mh max Lxvkxmtkr hy max Bgmxkbhk lnzzxlml lhfx
fhwbybvtmbhgl hy max ikhoblbhgl hy max ixgwbgz ubeel kxetmbgz mh max lftee
ahewbgzl hy ytkf etgwl. B vhffxgw mh rhnk tmmxgmbhg max lnzzxlmbhgl hy max
Lxvkxmtkr hy max Bgmxkbhk nihg mabl lnucxvm.

Max xgtvmfxgm hy t gtmbhgte utgdknim etp B lmbee kxztkw tl oxkr wxlbktuex.
Max Vhglmbmnmbhg atobgz zboxg mh Vhgzkxll cnkblwbvmbhg hy mabl lnucxvm, bm
lahnew ux xqxkvblxw tgw ngbyhkf knexl ikhobwxw yhk max twfbgblmktmbhg hy
max tyytbkl hy bglheoxgm wxumhkl. Max bgvhgoxgbxgvxl kxlnembgz ykhf max
hvvtlbhgte tgw mxfihktkr xqxkvblx hy mabl ihpxk ur Vhgzkxll tgw ykhf max
vhgyebvmbgz Lmtmx vhwxl hy bglheoxgvr pabva vhfx bgmh yhkvx bgmxkfxwbtmxer
lahnew ux kxfhoxw ur max xgtvmfxgm hy t lbfiex, bgxqixglbox, tgw ixkftgxgm
gtmbhgte utgdknim etp.

B telh kxgxp fr kxvhffxgwtmbhg bg ytohk hy exzbletmbhg tyyhkwbgz cnlm
vhirkbzam ikhmxvmbhg mh yhkxbzg tnmahkl hg t yhhmbgz hy kxvbikhvte
twotgmtzx yhk hnk tnmahkl tukhtw.

Bm ftr lmbee ux ihllbuex yhk mabl Vhgzkxll mh bgtnznktmx ur lnbmtuex
exzbletmbhg t fhoxfxgm ehhdbgz mh ngbyhkfbmr tgw bgvkxtlxw ltyxmr bg max
nlx hy vhniexkl tgw uktdxl nihg ykxbzam mktbgl xgztzxw bg bgmxklmtmx
vhffxkvx. Max vabxy wbyybvnemr bg max ptr bl mh lxvnkx tzkxxfxgm tl mh max
uxlm tiiebtgvxl, lbfiebvbmr, xyyxvmboxgxll, tgw vhlm uxbgz vhglbwxkxw. Mabl
wbyybvnemr pbee hger rbxew mh exzbletmbhg, pabva lahnew ux utlxw nihg ynee
bgjnbkr tgw bfitkmbte mxlml. Max inkihlx lahnew ux mh lxvnkx max
vhhixktmbhg hy tee pxee-wblihlxw ftgtzxkl tgw hpgxkl; unm max yxtkyne ytvm
matm xoxkr rxtk'l wxetr bgoheoxl max ltvkbybvx hy 2,000 eboxl tgw max
ftbfbgz hy 20,000 rhngz fxg lahnew iextw uhma pbma Vhgzkxll tgw max
ftgtzxkl tztbglm tgr gxxwexll wxetr.

Max lnucxvm hy max vhglxkotmbhg tgw xjnte wblmkbunmbhg hy max ptmxk lniier
hy max tkbw kxzbhgl atl atw fnva tmmxgmbhg ykhf Vhgzkxll, unm atl ghm tl
rxm uxxg inm nihg t ixkftgxgm tgw ltmblytvmhkr utlbl. Max nkzxgvr hy max
lnucxvm whxl ghm zkhp hnm hy tgr etkzx ikxlxgm wxftgw yhk max nlx hy maxlx
etgwl yhk tzkbvnemnkx, unm hnm hy max wtgzxk matm max ptmxk lniier tgw max
lbmxl yhk max gxvxlltkr vtmva utlbgl ftr ytee bgmh max atgwl hy bgwbobwntel
hk ikbotmx vhkihktmbhgl tgw ux nlxw mh kxgwxk lnulxkobxgm max etkzx tkxtl
wxixgwxgm nihg lnva lniier. Max hpgxk hy max ptmxk bl max hpgxk hy max
etgwl, ahpxoxk max mbmexl ftr kng. Tee ngtiikhikbtmxw gtmnkte ptmxk lhnkvxl
tgw tee gxvxlltkr kxlxkohbk lbmxl lahnew ux axew ur max Zhoxkgfxgm yhk max
xjnte nlx tm ytbk ktmxl hy max ahfxlmxtw lxmmexkl pah pbee xoxgmnteer mtdx
ni maxlx etgwl. Max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl lahnew ghm, bg fr hibgbhg, ngwxkmtdx max
vhglmknvmbhg hy wtfl hk vtgtel, unm lahnew ebfbm bml phkd mh lnva lnkoxrl
tgw hulxkotmbhgl tl pbee wxmxkfbgx max ptmxk lniier, uhma lnkytvx tgw
lnumxkktgxtg, max tkxtl vtituex hy bkkbztmbhg, tgw max ehvtmbhg tgw lmhktzx
vtitvbmr hy kxlxkohbkl. Mabl whgx, max nlx hy max ptmxk tgw hy max
kxlxkohbk lbmxl fbzam ux zktgmxw mh max kxlixvmbox Lmtmxl hk Mxkkbmhkbxl hk
mh bgwbobwntel hk tllhvbtmbhgl nihg max vhgwbmbhg matm max gxvxlltkr phkdl
lahnew ux vhglmknvmxw tgw max ptmxk ynkgblaxw tm ytbk ktmxl pbmahnm
wblvkbfbgtmbhg, max ktmxl mh ux lnucxvm mh lnixkoblbhg ur max exzbletmnkxl
hk ur uhtkwl hy ptmxk vhffbllbhgxkl wner vhglmbmnmxw. Max xllxgmbte mabgz
mh ux lxvnkxw bl max vhffhg tgw xjnte nlx tm ytbk ktmxl hy max tvvnfnetmxw
ptmxk lniier. Bm pxkx tefhlm uxmmxk matm maxlx etgwl lahnew kxftbg tkbw
matg matm mahlx pah hvvnir maxf lahnew uxvhfx max letoxl hy ngkxlmktbgxw
fhghihebxl vhgmkheebgz max hgx xllxgmbte xexfxgm hy etgw otenxl tgw vkhi
kxlneml.

Max nlx hy max mxexzktia ur max Ihlm-Hyybvx Wxitkmfxgm tl t fxtgl yhk max
ktibw mktglfbllbhg hy pkbmmxg vhffngbvtmbhgl bl, B uxebxox, nihg ikhixk
mxkfl, jnbmx wxlbktuex. Max Zhoxkgfxgm whxl ghm hpg hk hixktmx max
ktbekhtwl, tgw bm lahnew ghm, B mabgd, hpg hk hixktmx max mxexzktia ebgxl.
Bm whxl, ahpxoxk, lxxf mh ux jnbmx iktvmbvtuex yhk max Zhoxkgfxgm mh
vhgmktvm pbma max mxexzktia vhfitgbxl, tl bm whxl pbma ktbekhtw vhfitgbxl,
mh vtkkr tm lixvbybxw ktmxl lnva vhffngbvtmbhgl tl max lxgwxkl ftr
wxlbzgtmx yhk mabl fxmahw hy mktglfbllbhg. B kxvhffxgw matm lnva
exzbletmbhg ux xgtvmxw tl pbee xgtuex max Ihlm-Hyybvx Wxitkmfxgm ytbker mh
mxlm ur xqixkbfxgm max twotgmtzxl hy lnva t nlx hy max mxexzktia.

By tgr bgmxeebzxgm tgw ehrte vhfitgr hy Tfxkbvtg vbmbsxgl pxkx kxjnbkxw mh
vtmtehznx max xllxgmbte anftg vhgwbmbhgl hy gtmbhgte ebyx, B wh ghm whnum
matm pbma tulhenmx ngtgbfbmr maxr phnew uxzbg pbma "ykxx tgw ahgxlm
xexvmbhgl." Tgw bm bl zktmbyrbgz mh dghp matm zxgxkteer maxkx bl t zkhpbgz
tgw ghgitkmbltg wxftgw yhk uxmmxk xexvmbhg etpl; unm tztbglm mabl lbzg hy
ahix tgw ikhzkxll fnlm ux lxm max wxikxllbgz tgw ngwxgbtuex ytvm matm
xexvmbhg etpl tgw fxmahwl tkx lhfxmbfxl vnggbgzer vhgmkboxw mh lxvnkx
fbghkbmr vhgmkhe, pabex obhexgvx vhfiexmxl max lahkmvhfbgzl hy yktnw.

Bg fr etlm tggnte fxlltzx B lnzzxlmxw matm max wxoxehifxgm hy max xqblmbgz
etp ikhobwbgz t Yxwxkte lnixkoblbhg hy Vhgzkxllbhgte xexvmbhgl hyyxkxw tg
xyyxvmbox fxmahw hy kxyhkfbgz maxlx tunlxl. Max gxxw hy lnva t etp atl
ftgbyxlmxw bmlxey bg ftgr itkml hy max vhngmkr, tgw bml pahexlhfx
kxlmktbgml tgw ixgtembxl pbee ux nlxyne bg tee. Max vhglmbmnmbhgtebmr hy
lnva exzbletmbhg atl uxxg tyybkfxw ur max Lnikxfx Vhnkm. Bml ikhutuex
xyyxvmboxgxll bl xobwxgvxw ur max vatktvmxk hy max hiihlbmbhg matm bl ftwx
mh bm. Bm atl uxxg wxghngvxw tl by bm pxkx t gxp xqxkvblx hy Yxwxkte ihpxk
tgw tg bgotlbhg hy max kbzaml hy Lmtmxl. Ghmabgz vhnew ux ynkmaxk ykhf max
mknma. Vhgzkxll atl tekxtwr ybqxw max mbfx yhk max xexvmbhg hy fxfuxkl hy
Vhgzkxll. Bm atl wxvetkxw matm ohmxl yhk fxfuxkl hy Vhgzkxll fnlm ux ur
pkbmmxg hk ikbgmxw uteehm; bm atl ikhobwxw yhk max tiihbgmfxgm ur max
vbkvnbm vhnkml bg vxkmtbg vtlxl, tgw nihg max ixmbmbhg hy t vxkmtbg gnfuxk
hy vbmbsxgl, hy xexvmbhg lnixkoblhkl, tgw ftwx bm maxbk wnmr mh lnixkoblx
max kxzblmktmbhg hy ohmxkl vhgwnvmxw ur max Lmtmx hyybvxkl; mh vateexgzx
ixklhgl hyyxkbgz mh kxzblmxk; mh ixklhgteer bglixvm tgw lvknmbgbsx max
kxzblmkr eblml, tgw mh tyybq maxbk gtfxl mh max eblml yhk max inkihlx hy
bwxgmbybvtmbhg tgw max ikxoxgmbhg hy yktnwl; mh tmmxgw tm xexvmbhgl tgw
kxftbg pbma max uhqxl mbee maxr tkx tee vtlm tgw vhngmxw; mh tmmtva mh max
kxzblmkr eblml tgw xexvmbhg kxmnkgl tgr lmtmxfxgm mhnvabgz max tvvnktvr tgw
ytbkgxll hy max kxzblmkr tgw xexvmbhg, tgw mh mtdx tgw mktglfbm mh max
Vexkd hy max Ahnlx hy Kxikxlxgmtmboxl tgr xobwxgvx hy yktnwnexgm iktvmbvxl
pabva ftr ux ikxlxgmxw mh maxf. Max ltfx etp ikhobwxl yhk max tiihbgmfxgm
hy wxinmr Ngbmxw Lmtmxl ftklatel mh tmmxgw tm max iheel, lniihkm max
lnixkoblhkl bg max wblvatkzx hy maxbk wnmbxl, tgw mh tkkxlm ixklhgl
obhetmbgz max xexvmbhg etpl. Max ikhoblbhgl hy mabl ytfbebtk mbmex hy max
Kxoblxw Lmtmnmxl atox uxxg inm bgmh xqxkvblx ur uhma max zkxtm ihebmbvte
itkmbxl, tgw bg max Ghkma tl pxee tl bg max Lhnma, ur max ybebgz pbma max
vhnkm hy max ixmbmbhgl kxjnbkxw ur max etp.

Bm bl ghm, maxkxyhkx, t jnxlmbhg paxmaxk px latee atox t Yxwxkte xexvmbhg
etp, yhk px ghp atox hgx tgw atox atw yhk gxtker mpxgmr rxtkl, unm paxmaxk
px latee atox tg xyyxvmbox etp. Max ikxlxgm etp lmhil cnlm lahkm hy
xyyxvmboxgxll, yhk bm lnkkxgwxkl mh max ehvte tnmahkbmbxl tee vhgmkhe hoxk
max vxkmbybvtmbhg pabva xlmtueblaxl max ikbft ytvbx kbzam mh t lxtm bg max
Ahnlx hy Kxikxlxgmtmboxl. Mabl wxyxvm lahnew ux vnkxw. Xjntebmr hy
kxikxlxgmtmbhg tgw max itkbmr hy max xexvmhkl fnlm ux ftbgmtbgxw hk
xoxkrmabgz matm bl otentuex bg hnk lrlmxf hy zhoxkgfxgm bl ehlm. Max
jntebybvtmbhgl hy tg xexvmhk fnlm ux lhnzam bg max etp, gxm bg max
hibgbhgl, ikxcnwbvxl, hk yxtkl hy tgr vetll, ahpxoxk ihpxkyne. Max itma hy
max xexvmhk mh max uteehm uhq fnlm ux ykxx ykhf max tfunla hy yxtk tgw max
xgmbvxfxgml hy yktnw; max vhngm lh mknx tgw hixg matm ghgx latee ztbgltr
bm. Lnva t etp lahnew ux tulhenmxer ghgitkmbltg tgw bfitkmbte. Bm lahnew
zbox max twotgmtzx mh ahgxlmr tgw max vhgmkhe mh ftchkbmbxl. Lnkxer maxkx
bl ghmabgz lxvmbhgte tuhnm mabl vkxxw, tgw by bm latee atiixg matm max
ixgtembxl hy etpl bgmxgwxw mh xgyhkvx maxlx kbzaml ytee axkx tgw ghm maxkx
bm bl ghm uxvtnlx max etp bl lxvmbhgte, unm uxvtnlx, atiiber, vkbfx bl
ehvte tgw ghm ngboxklte. Ghk lahnew bm ux yhkzhmmxg matm xoxkr etp, paxmaxk
kxetmbgz mh xexvmbhgl hk mh tgr hmaxk lnucxvm, paxmaxk xgtvmxw ur max Lmtmx
hk ur max gtmbhg, atl yhkvx uxabgw bm; max vhnkml, max ftklate hk
vhglmtuex, max ihllx vhfbmtmnl, max ikblhg, tkx tee tgw teptrl uxabgw max
etp.

Hgx vtg ghm ux cnlmer vatkzxw pbma ngykbxgwebgxll mh tgr lxvmbhg hk vetll
pah lxxdl hger mh kxlmktbg obhetmbhgl hy etp tgw hy ixklhgte kbzam. Gh
vhffngbmr pbee ybgw etpexllgxll ikhybmtuex. Gh vhffngbmr vtg tyyhkw mh atox
bm dghpg matm max hyybvxkl pah tkx vatkzxw pbma max ikxlxkotmbhg hy max
inuebv ixtvx tgw max kxlmktbgm hy max vkbfbgte vetllxl tkx maxflxeoxl max
ikhwnvm hy yktnw hk obhexgvx. Max ftzblmktmx bl maxg pbmahnm kxlixvm tgw
max etp pbmahnm ltgvmbhg. Max yehhwl hy etpexllgxll vtg ghm ux exoxxw tgw
ftwx mh kng bg hgx vatggxe. Max dbeebgz hy t Ngbmxw Lmtmxl ftklate vtkkrbgz
t pkbm hy tkkxlm yhk tg xexvmbhg hyyxglx bl ynee hy ikhfimbgz tgw
lnzzxlmbhg mh fxg pah tkx inklnxw ur t vbmr ftklate yhk t vkbfx tztbglm
ebyx hk ikhixkmr.

Unm bm bl ltbw matm mabl exzbletmbhg pbee kxobox ktvx tgbfhlbmbxl, tgw lhfx
atox xoxg lnzzxlmxw matm paxg max ixtvxyne fxmahwl hy yktnw tkx ftwx
bfihllbuex maxr ftr ux lniietgmxw ur bgmbfbwtmbhg tgw obhexgvx. By max
ikhihlxw etp zboxl mh tgr jntebybxw xexvmhk ur t atbk'l pxbzam fhkx matg
abl xjnte bgyenxgvx hk wxmktvml ur lh fnva ykhf tgr hmaxk jntebybxw
xexvmhk, bm bl ytmteer bfixtvaxw. Unm by max etp bl xjnte tgw max
tgbfhlbmbxl bm bl mh xohdx zkhp hnm hy max ytvm matm lhfx xexvmhkl atox
uxxg tvvnlmhfxw mh xqxkvblx max yktgvablx yhk hmaxkl tl pxee tl yhk
maxflxeoxl, maxg maxlx tgbfhlbmbxl hnzam ghm mh ux vhgyxllxw pbmahnm latfx,
tgw vtg ghm ux zboxg tgr pxbzam bg max wblvnllbhg pbmahnm wblahghk Gh
vahbvx bl exym mh fx unm mh xgyhkvx pbma obzhk tee etpl bgmxgwxw mh lxvnkx
mh max vbmbsxg abl vhglmbmnmbhgte kbzaml tgw mh kxvhffxgw matm max
bgtwxjntvbxl hy lnva etpl ux ikhfimer kxfxwbxw. By mh ikhfhmx pbma sxte tgw
kxtwr bgmxkxlm xoxkr ikhcxvm yhk max wxoxehifxgm hy bml ftmxkbte bgmxkxlml,
bml kboxkl, atkuhkl, fbgxl, tgw ytvmhkbxl, tgw max bgmxeebzxgvx, ixtvx, tgw
lxvnkbmr ngwxk max etp hy bml vhffngbmbxl tgw bml ahfxl bl ghm tvvximxw tl
lnyybvbxgm xobwxgvx hy ykbxgwebgxll mh tgr Lmtmx hk lxvmbhg, B vtg ghm tww
vhggbotgvx tm xexvmbhg iktvmbvxl matm ghm hger wblmnku ehvte kxlneml, unm
khu max xexvmhkl hy hmaxk Lmtmxl tgw lxvmbhgl hy maxbk fhlm ikbvxexll
ihebmbvte kbzaml.

Max ikxitktmbhg hy max zxgxkte tiikhikbtmbhg ubeel lahnew ux vhgwnvmxw pbma
max zkxtmxlm vtkx tgw max vehlxlm lvknmbgr hy xqixgwbmnkxl. Tiikhikbtmbhgl
lahnew ux twxjntmx mh max gxxwl hy max inuebv lxkobvx, unm maxr lahnew ux
tulhenmxer ykxx ykhf ikhwbztebmr.

B oxgmnkx tztbg mh kxfbgw rhn matm max ukbxy mbfx kxftbgbgz yhk max
vhglbwxktmbhg hy max bfihkmtgm exzbletmbhg ghp tptbmbgz rhnk tmmxgmbhg
hyyxkl gh ftkzbg yhk ptlmx. By max ikxlxgm wnmr bl wblvatkzxw pbma
wbebzxgvx, ybwxebmr, tgw vhnktzx, max phkd hy max Ybymr-ybklm Vhgzkxll ftr
ux vhgybwxgmer lnufbmmxw mh max vhglbwxktmx cnwzfxgm hy max ixhiex. UXGC.
ATKKBLHG