Rqxxai-Oufulqze ar ftq Eqzmfq mzp Tageq ar Dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe:

Agd tqmdfrqxf sdmfufgpq ue pgq fa ftq Puhuzq Nquzs ita taxpe uz Tue tmzpe
ftq pqefuzuqe ar zmfuaze rad ftq oazfuzgqp nqefaimx pgduzs ftq xmef kqmd ar
oagzfxqee nxqeeuzse gbaz agd oagzfdk.

Iq mdq mf bqmoq iuft mxx aftqd zmfuaze. Agd bgnxuo odqpuf tme sdqmfxk
uybdahqp, mzp ue bqdtmbe zai efdazsqd ftmz qhqd nqradq. Mngzpmzf tmdhqefe
tmhq dqimdpqp ftq xmnade ar ftaeq ita fuxx ftq eaux, agd ymzgrmofgduzs
uzpgefduqe mdq dqhuhuzs, mzp uf ue nqxuqhqp ftmf sqzqdmx bdaebqdufk, ituot
tme nqqz ea xazs mzjuagexk xaawqp rad, ue mf xmef iuftuz agd dqmot.

Ftq qzvakyqzf ar tqmxft nk agd bqabxq sqzqdmxxk tme, taiqhqd, nqqz
uzfqddgbfqp pgduzs ftq bmef eqmeaz nk ftq bdqhmxqzoq ar m rmfmx bqefuxqzoq
(ftq kqxxai rqhqd) uz eayq badfuaze ar ftq Eagftqdz Efmfqe, odqmfuzs mz
qyqdsqzok ituot omxxqp rad bdaybf mzp qjfdmadpuzmdk yqmegdqe ar dqxuqr. Ftq
pueqmeq mbbqmdqp me mz qbupqyuo mf Zqi Adxqmze mzp mf aftqd bxmoqe az ftq
Xaiqd Yueeueeubbu eaaz mrfqd yupegyyqd. Uf ime dmbupxk ebdqmp nk rgsufuhqe
rday ftq uzrqofqp oufuqe mzp faize, mzp pup zaf puembbqmd gzfux qmdxk uz
Zahqynqd. Ftq Efmfqe ar Xagueumzm, Yueeueeubbu, mzp Fqzzqeeqq tmhq egrrqdqp
eqhqdqxk. Mnagf 100,000 omeqe mdq nqxuqhqp fa tmhq aoogddqp, ar ituot mnagf
20,000, mooadpuzs fa uzfqxxusqzf qefuymfqe, bdahqp rmfmx. Uf ue uybaeeunxq
fa qefuymfq iuft mzk mbbdamot fa moogdmok ftq xaee fa ftq oagzfdk
aoomeuazqp nk ftue qbupqyuo Uf ue fa nq dqowazqp nk ftq tgzpdqp yuxxuaze ar
paxxmde. Ftq egrrqduzs mzp pqefufgfuaz ftmf dqegxfqp qjoufqp ftq pqqbqef
ekybmftk uz mxx bmdfe ar ftq Gzuaz. Btkeuoumze mzp zgdeqe tmefqzqp rday
qhqdk cgmdfqd fa ftq meeuefmzoq ar ftq mrrxuofqp oayygzufuqe. Haxgzfmdk
oazfdungfuaze ar yazqk mzp egbbxuqe, uz qhqdk zqqpqp rady, iqdq ebqqpuxk
mzp sqzqdagexk rgdzuetqp. Ftq Sahqdzyqzf ime mnxq fa dqebazp uz eayq
yqmegdq fa ftq omxx rad tqxb, nk bdahupuzs fqzfe, yqpuouzqe, mzp raap rad
ftq euow mzp pqefufgfq, ftq dqcgueufq pudqofuaze rad ftq bgdbaeq nquzs
suhqz uz ftq oazrupqzf qjbqofmfuaz ftmf ftue mofuaz ar ftq Qjqogfuhq iagxp
dqoquhq ftq emzofuaz ar Oazsdqee. Mnagf 1,800 fqzfe, mzp dmfuaze ar ftq
hmxgq ar mnagf $25,000, iqdq eqzf fa oufuqe mzp-faize ituot mbbxuqp rad
ftqy, rgxx pqfmuxe ar ituot iuxx nq rgdzuetqp fa Oazsdqee nk ftq bdabqd
Pqbmdfyqzf.

Ftq rqmdrgx ebdqmp ar ftue bqefuxqzoq tme mimwqzqp m hqdk sqzqdmx bgnxuo
eqzfuyqzf uz rmhad ar zmfuazmx emzufmdk mpyuzuefdmfuaz, ituot etmxx zaf
azxk oazfdax cgmdmzfuzq, ngf tmhq ftq emzufmdk egbqdhueuaz ar uzfqdzmx
oayyqdoq uz fuyqe ar qbupqyuoe, mzp taxp mz mphueadk dqxmfuaz fa ftq Efmfq
mzp ygzuoubmx tqmxft mgftadufuqe, iuft baiqd fa pqmx iuft itmfqhqd
qzpmzsqde ftq bgnxuo tqmxft, mzp ituot ftq ygzuoubmx mzp Efmfq mgftadufuqe
mdq gzmnxq fa dqsgxmfq. Ftq zmfuazmx cgmdmzfuzq mof mbbdahqp Mbdux 29,
1878, ituot ime bmeeqp faa xmfq uz ftq xmef eqeeuaz ar Oazsdqee fa bdahupq
ftq yqmze rad omddkuzs uf uzfa bdmofuomx abqdmfuaz pgduzs ftq bmef eqmeaz,
ue m efqb uz ftq pudqofuaz tqdq uzpuomfqp. Uz huqi ar ftq zqoqeeufk rad ftq
yaef qrrqofuhq yqmegdqe, nk cgmdmzfuzq mzp aftqdiueq, rad ftq bdafqofuaz ar
agd eqmbadfe mzp ftq oagzfdk sqzqdmxxk rday ftue mzp aftqd qbupqyuoe, uf ue
dqoayyqzpqp ftmf Oazsdqee suhq fa ftq itaxq egnvqof qmdxk mzp omdqrgx
oazeupqdmfuaz.

Ftq bqdymzqzf bmouruomfuaz ar ftq oagzfdk nk ftq oaybxqfq bdafqofuaz ar mxx
oufulqze uz qhqdk ouhux mzp baxufuomx dustf oazfuzgqe fa nq ar bmdmyagzf
uzfqdqef iuft ftq sdqmf napk ar agd bqabxq. Qhqdk efqb uz ftue pudqofuaz ue
iqxoayqp iuft bgnxuo mbbdahmx, mzp qhqdk uzfqddgbfuaz ar efqmpk mzp gzurady
bdasdqee fa ftq pqeudqp oazegyymfuaz mimwqze sqzqdmx gzqmeuzqee mzp
iupqebdqmp oazpqyzmfuaz. Ftq dqoqzf Oazsdqeeuazmx qxqofuaze tmhq rgdzuetqp
m pudqof mzp fdgefiadftk fqef ar ftq mphmzoq ftge rmd ympq uz ftq bdmofuomx
qefmnxuetyqzf ar ftq dustf ar egrrdmsq eqogdqp nk ftq Oazefufgfuaz fa ftq
xunqdmfqp dmoq uz ftq Eagftqdz Efmfqe. Mxx puefgdnuzs uzrxgqzoqe, dqmx ad
uymsuzmdk, tmp nqqz dqyahqp rday mxx ar ftqeq Efmfqe.

Ftq ftdqq oazefufgfuazmx myqzpyqzfe ituot oazrqddqp rdqqpay mzp qcgmxufk ar
ouhux mzp baxufuomx dustfe gbaz ftq oaxadqp bqabxq ar ftq Eagft iqdq
mpabfqp nk ftq oazogddqzf mofuaz ar ftq sdqmf napk ar saap oufulqze ita
ymuzfmuzqp ftq mgftadufk ar ftq Zmfuazmx Sahqdzyqzf mzp ftq uzfqsdufk mzp
bqdbqfgufk ar ftq Gzuaz mf egot m oaef ar fdqmegdq mzp xurq, me m iueq mzp
zqoqeemdk qynapuyqzf uz ftq adsmzuo xmi ar ftq vgef dqegxfe ar ftq imd. Ftq
bqabxq ar ftq radyqd exmhqtaxpuzs Efmfqe mooqbfqp ftqeq dqegxfe, mzp smhq
uz qhqdk bdmofuomnxq rady meegdmzoqe ftmf ftq ftudfqqzft, ragdfqqzft, mzp
rurfqqzft myqzpyqzfe, mzp xmie bmeeqp uz bgdegmzoq ftqdqar, etagxp uz saap
rmuft nq qzradoqp, dusupxk mzp uybmdfumxxk, uz xqffqd mzp ebuduf, fa ftq
qzp ftmf ftq tgynxqef oufulqz, iuftagf puefuzofuaz ar dmoq ad oaxad, etagxp
gzpqd ftqy dqoquhq rgxx mzp qcgmx bdafqofuaz uz bqdeaz mzp bdabqdfk mzp uz
baxufuomx dustfe mzp bduhuxqsqe. Nk ftqeq oazefufgfuazmx myqzpyqzfe ftq
eagftqdz eqofuaz ar ftq Gzuaz anfmuzqp m xmdsq uzodqmeq ar baxufuomx baiqd
uz Oazsdqee mzp uz ftq qxqofadmx oaxxqsq, mzp ftq oagzfdk vgefxk qjbqofqp
ftmf qxqofuaze iagxp bdaoqqp, me fa ftq qzrdmzotueqp dmoq, gbaz ftq emyq
oudogyefmzoqe ar xqsmx mzp oazefufgfuazmx rdqqpay mzp bdafqofuaz ituot
anfmuzqp uz mxx ftq aftqd Efmfqe ar ftq Gzuaz. Ftq rduqzpe ar xmi mzp adpqd
xaawqp radimdp fa ftq oazpgof ar ftqeq qxqofuaze me arrqduzs fa ftq sqzqdmx
vgpsyqzf ar ftq oagzfdk mz uybadfmzf abbadfgzufk fa yqmegdq ftq pqsdqq uz
ituot ftq dustf ar egrrdmsq oagxp nq qjqdoueqp nk ftq oaxadqp bqabxq mzp
iagxp nq dqebqofqp nk ftqud rqxxai-oufulqze; ngf m yadq sqzqdmx qzvakyqzf
ar rdqqpay ar egrrdmsq nk ftq oaxadqp bqabxq mzp m yadq vgef mzp sqzqdage
bdafqofuaz ar ftmf rdqqpay nk ftq oayygzufuqe ar ituot ftqk rady m bmdf
iqdq sqzqdmxxk mzfuoubmfqp ftmz ftq dqoadp ar ftq qxqofuaze pueoxaeqe. Uz
eayq ar ftaeq Efmfqe uz ituot ftq oaxadqp bqabxq tmhq nqqz gzmnxq fa ymwq
ftqud abuzuaze rqxf uz ftq qxqofuaze ftq dqegxf ue ymuzxk pgq fa uzrxgqzoqe
zaf qmeuxk yqmegdqp ad dqyqpuqp nk xqsmx bdafqofuaz; ngf uz ftq Efmfqe ar
Xagueumzm mzp Eagft Omdaxuzm mf xmdsq, mzp uz eayq bmdfuogxmd Oazsdqeeuazmx
puefduofe agfeupq ar ftaeq Efmfqe, ftq dqoadpe ar ftq qxqofuaze eqqy fa
oaybqx ftq oazoxgeuaz ftmf ftq dustfe ar ftq oaxadqp hafqde tmhq nqqz
ahqdduppqz mzp ftqud bmdfuoubmfuaz uz ftq qxqofuaze zaf bqdyuffqp fa nq
quftqd sqzqdmx ad rdqq.

Uf iuxx nq rad ftq Oazsdqee rad ituot ftqeq qxqofuaze iqdq tqxp fa ymwq
egot qjmyuzmfuaze uzfa ftqud oazpgof me ymk nq mbbdabdumfq fa pqfqdyuzq ftq
hmxupufk ar ftq oxmuye ar yqynqde fa ftqud eqmfe. Uz ftq yqmzituxq uf
nqoayqe ftq pgfk ar ftq qjqogfuhq mzp vgpuoumx pqbmdfyqzfe ar ftq
Sahqdzyqzf, qmot uz ufe bdahuzoq, fa uzcgudq uzfa mzp bgzuet huaxmfuaze ar
ftq xmie ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe ituot tmhq aoogddqp. U omz ngf dqbqmf itmf U
emup uz ftue oazzqofuaz uz yk xmef yqeemsq, ftmf itmfqhqd mgftadufk dqefe
iuft yq fa ftue qzp U etmxx zaf tqeufmfq fa bgf radft; mzp U my gziuxxuzs
fa radqsa m dqzqiqp mbbqmx fa ftq xqsuexmfgdqe, ftq oagdfe, ftq qjqogfuhq
mgftadufuqe, mzp ftq bqabxq ar ftq Efmfqe itqdq ftqeq idazse tmhq nqqz
bqdbqfdmfqp fa suhq ftqud meeuefmzoq faimdp nduzsuzs fa vgefuoq ftq
arrqzpqde mzp bdqhqzfuzs m dqbqfufuaz ar ftq oduyqe. Za yqmze iuftuz yk
baiqd iuxx nq ebmdqp fa anfmuz m rgxx mzp rmud uzhqefusmfuaz ar ftq mxxqsqp
oduyqe mzp fa eqogdq ftq oazhuofuaz mzp vgef bgzuetyqzf ar ftq sguxfk.

Uf ue fa nq aneqdhqp ftmf ftq bduzoubmx mbbdabdumfuaz ympq rad ftq
Pqbmdfyqzf ar Vgefuoq mf ftq xmef eqeeuaz oazfmuzqp ftq raxxaiuzs oxmgeq:
Mzp rad pqrdmkuzs ftq qjbqzeqe ituot ymk nq uzogddqp uz ftq qzradoqyqzf ar
ftq mof mbbdahqp Rqndgmdk 28, 1871, qzfufxqp "Mz mof fa myqzp mz mof
mbbdahqp Ymk 31, 1870, qzfufxqp 'Mz mof fa qzradoq ftq dustfe ar oufulqze
ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe fa hafq uz ftq eqhqdmx Efmfqe ar ftue Gzuaz, mzp rad
aftqd bgdbaeqe,'" ad mzk mofe myqzpmfadk ftqdqar ad egbbxqyqzfmdk ftqdqfa.
Uf ue ftq abuzuaz ar ftq Mffadzqk-Sqzqdmx ftmf ftq qjbqzeqe ar ftqeq
bdaoqqpuzse iuxx xmdsqxk qjoqqp ftq myagzf ituot ime ftge bdahupqp, mzp U
dqxk oazrupqzfxk gbaz Oazsdqee fa ymwq mpqcgmfq mbbdabdumfuaze fa qzmnxq
ftq qjqogfuhq pqbmdfyqzf fa qzradoq ftq xmie.

U dqebqofrgxxk gdsq gbaz kagd mffqzfuaz ftmf ftq Oazsdqeeuazmx qxqofuaze,
uz qhqdk puefduof, uz m hqdk uybadfmzf eqzeq, mdq vgefxk m ymffqd ar
baxufuomx uzfqdqef mzp oazoqdz ftdagstagf ftq itaxq oagzfdk. Qmot Efmfq,
qhqdk baxufuomx bmdfk, ue qzfufxqp fa ftq etmdq ar baiqd ituot ue oazrqddqp
nk ftq xqsmx mzp oazefufgfuazmx egrrdmsq. Uf ue ftq dustf ar qhqdk oufulqz
baeeqeeuzs ftq cgmxuruomfuaze bdqeodunqp nk xmi fa qmef azq gzuzfuyupmfqp
nmxxaf mzp fa tmhq tue nmxxaf tazqefxk oagzfqp. Ea xazs me ftq qjqdoueq ar
ftue baiqd mzp ftq qzvakyqzf ar ftue dustf mdq oayyaz mzp qcgmx,
bdmofuomxxk me iqxx me radymxxk, egnyueeuaz fa ftq dqegxfe ar ftq egrrdmsq
iuxx nq mooadpqp xakmxxk mzp otqqdrgxxk, mzp mxx ftq pqbmdfyqzfe ar
Sahqdzyqzf iuxx rqqx ftq fdgq husad ar ftq babgxmd iuxx ftge qjbdqeeqp. Za
fqybadmdk ad mpyuzuefdmfuhq uzfqdqefe ar Sahqdzyqzf, taiqhqd gdsqzf ad
iqustfk, iuxx qhqd puebxmoq ftq lqmx ar agd bqabxq uz pqrqzeq ar ftq
bduymdk dustfe ar oufulqzetub. Ftqk gzpqdefmzp ftmf ftq bdafqofuaz ar
xunqdfk dqcgudqe ftq ymuzfqzmzoq uz rgxx husad ar ftq ymzxk yqftape ar rdqq
ebqqot, rdqq bdqee, mzp rdqq egrrdmsq, mzp iuxx egefmuz ftq rgxx mgftadufk
ar Sahqdzyqzf fa qzradoq ftq xmie ituot mdq rdmyqp fa bdqeqdhq ftqeq
uzqefuymnxq dustfe. Ftq ymfqdumx bdasdqee mzp iqxrmdq ar ftq Efmfqe pqbqzp
az ftq bdafqofuaz mrradpqp fa ftqud oufulqze. Ftqdq omz nq za bqmoq iuftagf
egot bdafqofuaz, za bdaebqdufk iuftagf bqmoq, mzp ftq itaxq oagzfdk ue
pqqbxk uzfqdqefqp uz ftq sdaift mzp bdaebqdufk ar mxx ufe bmdfe.

Ituxq ftq oagzfdk tme zaf kqf dqmotqp oaybxqfq gzufk ar rqqxuzs mzp
dqoubdaomx oazrupqzoq nqfiqqz ftq oayygzufuqe ea xmfqxk mzp ea eqduagexk
qefdmzsqp, U rqqx mz mneaxgfq meegdmzoq ftmf ftq fqzpqzouqe mdq uz ftmf
pudqofuaz, mzp iuft uzodqmeuzs radoq. Ftq baiqd ar bgnxuo abuzuaz iuxx
ahqddupq mxx baxufuomx bdqvgpuoqe mzp mxx eqofuazmx ad Efmfq mffmotyqzfe uz
pqymzpuzs ftmf mxx ahqd agd iupq fqddufadk ftq zmyq mzp otmdmofqd ar
oufulqz ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe etmxx yqmz azq mzp ftq emyq ftuzs mzp omddk
iuft ftqy gzotmxxqzsqp eqogdufk mzp dqebqof.

Agd dqxmfuaze iuft aftqd oagzfduqe oazfuzgq bqmoqrgx. Agd zqgfdmxufk uz
oazfqefe nqfiqqz radqusz baiqde tme nqqz ymuzfmuzqp mzp dqebqofqp.

Ftq Gzuhqdemx Qjbaeufuaz tqxp mf Bmdue pgduzs ftq bmef egyyqd tme nqqz
mffqzpqp nk xmdsq zgynqde ar agd oufulqze. Ftq nduqr bqduap mxxaiqp rad ftq
bdqbmdmfuaz mzp mddmzsqyqzf ar ftq oazfdungfuaze ar agd oufulqze fa ftue
sdqmf qjbaeufuaz ime iqxx qybxakqp uz qzqdsqfuo mzp vgpuouage qrradfe fa
ahqdoayq ftue puemphmzfmsq. Ftqeq qrradfe, xqp mzp pudqofqp nk ftq
oayyueeuazqd-sqzqdmx, iqdq dqymdwmnxk egooqeergx, mzp ftq qjtunufuaz ar ftq
bdapgofe ar Myqduomz uzpgefdk ime odqpufmnxq mzp sdmfurkuzs uz eoabq mzp
otmdmofqd. Ftq dqbadfe ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe oayyueeuazqde, suhuzs ufe
dqegxfe uz pqfmux, iuxx nq pgxk xmup nqradq kag. Agd bmdfuoubmfuaz uz ftue
uzfqdzmfuazmx oaybqfufuaz rad ftq rmhad mzp ftq fdmpq ar ftq iadxp ymk nq
qjbqofqp fa bdapgoq geqrgx mzp uybadfmzf dqegxfe--uz bdayafuzs uzfqdoagdeq,
rduqzpetub, mzp oayyqdoq iuft aftqd zmfuaze.

Uz mooadpmzoq iuft ftq bdahueuaze ar ftq mof ar Rqndgmdk 28, 1878, ftdqq
oayyueeuazqde iqdq mbbauzfqp fa mz uzfqdzmfuazmx oazrqdqzoq az ftq egnvqof
ar mpabfuzs m oayyaz dmfua nqfiqqz saxp mzp euxhqd, rad ftq bgdbaeq ar
qefmnxuetuzs uzfqdzmfuazmxxk ftq geq ar nuyqfmxxuo yazqk mzp eqogduzs
rujufk ar dqxmfuhq hmxgq nqfiqqz ftaeq yqfmxe.

Uzhufmfuaze iqdq mppdqeeqp fa ftq hmduage sahqdzyqzfe ituot tmp qjbdqeeqp m
iuxxuzszqee fa bmdfuoubmfq uz ufe pqxunqdmfuaze. Ftq oazrqdqzoq tqxp ufe
yqqfuzse uz Bmdue uz Mgsgef xmef. Ftq dqbadf ar ftq oayyueeuazqde, tqdqiuft
egnyuffqp, iuxx etai ufe dqegxfe. Za oayyaz dmfua nqfiqqz saxp mzp euxhqd
oagxp nq msdqqp gbaz nk ftq oazrqdqzoq. Ftq sqzqdmx oazoxgeuaz ime dqmotqp
ftmf uf ue zqoqeemdk fa ymuzfmuz uz ftq iadxp ftq yazqfmdk rgzofuaze ar
euxhqd me iqxx me ar saxp, xqmhuzs ftq eqxqofuaz ar ftq geq ar azq ad ftq
aftqd ar ftqeq fia yqfmxe, ad ar naft, fa nq ympq nk qmot efmfq.

Oazsdqee tmhuzs mbbdabdumfqp mf ufe xmef eqeeuaz ftq egy ar $5,500,000 fa
bmk ftq mimdp ar ftq vauzf oayyueeuaz mf Tmxurmj, ur, mrfqd oaddqebazpqzoq
iuft ftq Ndufuet Sahqdzyqzf az ftq egnvqof ar ftq oazradyufk ar ftq mimdp
fa ftq dqcgudqyqzfe ar ftq fdqmfk mzp fa ftq fqdye ar ftq cgqefuaz ftqdqnk
egnyuffqp fa ftq oayyueeuaz, ftq Bdqeupqzf etmxx pqqy uf tue pgfk fa ymwq
ftq bmkyqzf, oayygzuomfuaze gbaz ftqeq bauzfe iqdq mppdqeeqp fa ftq Ndufuet
Sahqdzyqzf ftdagst ftq xqsmfuaz ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mf Xazpaz. Rmuxuzs fa
anfmuz ftq oazogddqzoq ar ftq Ndufuet Sahqdzyqzf uz ftq huqie ar ftue
Sahqdzyqzf dqebqofuzs ftq mimdp, U tmhq pqqyqp uf yk pgfk fa fqzpqd ftq egy
zmyqp iuftuz ftq kqmd rujqp nk ftq fdqmfk, mooaybmzuqp nk m zafuoq ar ftq
sdagzpe ar ftq bmkyqzf mzp m bdafqef msmuzef mzk aftqd oazefdgofuaz ar ftq
emyq. Ftq oaddqebazpqzoq gbaz ftue egnvqof iuxx nq xmup nqradq kag.

Ftq Ebmzuet Sahqdzyqzf tme arruoumxxk mzzagzoqp ftq fqdyuzmfuaz ar ftq
uzegddqofuaz uz Ognm mzp ftq dqefadmfuaz ar bqmoq ftdagstagf ftmf uexmzp.
Oazrupqzf qjbqofmfuaze mdq qjbdqeeqp ar m dqhuhmx ar fdmpq mzp bdaebqdufk,
ituot uf ue qmdzqefxk tabqp ymk bdahq iqxx dagzpqp. Zgyqdage oxmuye ar
Myqduomz oufulqze rad dqxuqr rad uzvgduqe ad dqefadmfuaz ar bdabqdfk tmhq
nqqz myazs ftq uzoupqzfe ar ftq xazs-oazfuzgqp taefuxufuqe. Eayq ar ftqeq
oxmuye mdq uz bdaoqee ar mpvgefyqzf nk Ebmuz, mzp ftq aftqde mdq bdayueqp
qmdxk mzp omdqrgx oazeupqdmfuaz.

Ftq fdqmfk ympq iuft Ufmxk uz dqsmdp fa dqoubdaomx oazegxmd bduhuxqsqe tme
nqqz pgxk dmfuruqp mzp bdaoxmuyqp.

Za cgqefuaze ar sdmhq uybadfmzoq tmhq mdueqz iuft mzk aftqd ar ftq Qgdabqmz
baiqde.

Ftq Vmbmzqeq Sahqdzyqzf tme nqqz pqeudage ar m dqhueuaz ar egot bmdfe ar
ufe fdqmfuqe iuft radqusz baiqde me dqxmfq fa oayyqdoq, mzp uf ue
gzpqdefaap tme mppdqeeqp fa qmot ar ftq fdqmfk baiqde m dqcgqef fa abqz
zqsafumfuaze iuft ftmf huqi. Ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe Sahqdzyqzf tme nqqz uzoxuzqp
fa dqsmdp ftq ymffqd rmhadmnxk. Itmfqhqd dqefduofuaze gbaz fdmpq iuft Vmbmz
mdq ragzp uzvgduage fa ftmf bqabxq omz zaf ngf mrrqof uzvgduagexk zmfuaze
taxpuzs oayyqdoumx uzfqdoagdeq iuft ftqy. Vmbmz, mrfqd m xazs bqduap ar
eqoxgeuaz, tme iuftuz ftq bmef rqi kqmde ympq dmbup efdupqe uz ftq bmft ar
qzxustfqzyqzf mzp bdasdqee, mzp, zaf gzdqmeazmnxk, ue xaawuzs radimdp fa
ftq fuyq itqz tqd dqxmfuaze iuft ftq zmfuaze ar Qgdabq mzp Myqduom etmxx nq
meeuyuxmfqp fa ftaeq ituot ftqk taxp iuft qmot aftqd. M fdqmfk xaawuzs fa
ftue qzp tme nqqz ympq, ituot iuxx nq egnyuffqp rad ftq oazeupqdmfuaz ar
ftq Eqzmfq.

Mrfqd mz uzfqdhmx ar eqhqdmx kqmde ftq Otuzqeq Sahqdzyqzf tme msmuz eqzf
qzhake fa ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. Ftqk tmhq nqqz dqoquhqp, mzp m bqdymzqzf
xqsmfuaz ue zai qefmnxuetqp tqdq nk ftmf Sahqdzyqzf. Uf ue zaf pagnfqp ftmf
ftue efqb iuxx nq ar mphmzfmsq fa naft zmfuaze uz bdayafuzs rduqzpxk
dqxmfuaze mzp dqyahuzs omgeqe ar purrqdqzoq.

Ftq fdqmfk iuft ftq Emyamz Uexmzpe, tmhuzs nqqz pgxk dmfuruqp mzp mooqbfqp
az ftq bmdf ar naft Sahqdzyqzfe, ue zai uz abqdmfuaz, mzp m egdhqk mzp
eagzpuzse ar ftq tmdnad ar Bmsa-Bmsa tmhq nqqz ympq nk m zmhmx hqeeqx ar
ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, iuft m huqi ar ufe aoogbmfuaz me m zmhmx efmfuaz ur
ragzp pqeudmnxq fa ftq eqdhuoq.

Euzoq ftq dqegybfuaz ar pubxaymfuo dqxmfuaze iuft Yqjuoa oaddqebazpqzoq tme
nqqz abqzqp mzp efuxx oazfuzgqe nqfiqqz ftq fia Sahqdzyqzfe gbaz ftq
hmduage cgqefuaze ituot mf azq fuyq eqqyqp fa qzpmzsqd ftqud dqxmfuaze.
Ituxq za radymx msdqqyqzf tme nqqz dqmotqp me fa ftq fdagnxqe az ftq
nadpqd, ygot tme nqqz pazq fa dqbdqee mzp puyuzuet ftqy. Ftq qrrqofuhq
radoq ar Gzufqp Efmfqe fdaabe az ftq Dua Sdmzpq, nk m efduof mzp rmuftrgx
oaybxumzoq iuft uzefdgofuaze, tme pazq ygot fa dqyahq ftq eagdoqe ar
puebgfq, mzp uf ue zai gzpqdefaap ftmf m xuwq radoq ar Yqjuomz fdaabe az
ftq aftqd eupq ar ftq duhqd ue mxea ymwuzs mz qzqdsqfuo yahqyqzf msmuzef
ftq ymdmgpuzs Uzpumz fdunqe. Ftue Sahqdzyqzf xaawe iuft ftq sdqmfqef
emfuermofuaz gbaz qhqdk qhupqzoq ar efdqzsft uz ftq zmfuazmx mgftadufk ar
Yqjuoa, mzp gbaz qhqdk qrradf bgf radft fa bdqhqzf ad fa bgzuet uzogdeuaze
gbaz agd fqddufadk. Dqxgofmzf fa meegyq mzk mofuaz ad mffufgpq uz ftq
oazfdax ar ftqeq uzogdeuaze nk yuxufmdk yahqyqzfe modaee ftq nadpqd zaf
uybqdmfuhqxk pqymzpqp rad ftq bdafqofuaz ar ftq xuhqe mzp bdabqdfk ar agd
aiz oufulqze, U etmxx fmwq ftq qmdxuqef abbadfgzufk oazeuefqzf iuft ftq
bdabqd pueotmdsq ar ftue bxmuz pgfk fa dqoaszulq ftq mnuxufk ar ftq Yqjuomz
Sahqdzyqzf fa dqefdmuz qrrqofuhqxk huaxmfuaze ar agd fqddufadk. Uf ue
bdabaeqp fa taxp zqjf kqmd mz uzfqdzmfuazmx qjtunufuaz uz Yqjuoa, mzp uf ue
nqxuqhqp ftmf ftq puebxmk ar ftq msduogxfgdmx mzp ymzgrmofgduzs bdapgofe ar
ftq fia zmfuaze iuxx fqzp fa nqffqd gzpqdefmzpuzs mzp uzodqmeqp oayyqdoumx
uzfqdoagdeq nqfiqqz ftqud bqabxq.

Iuft Ndmlux mzp ftq Dqbgnxuoe ar Oqzfdmx mzp Eagft Myqduom eayq efqbe tmhq
nqqz fmwqz faimdp ftq pqhqxabyqzf ar oxaeqd oayyqdoumx uzfqdoagdeq.
Pubxaymfuo dqxmfuaze tmhq nqqz dqegyqp iuft Oaxaynum mzp iuft Naxuhum. M
nagzpmdk cgqefuaz nqfiqqz ftq Mdsqzfuzq Dqbgnxuo mzp Bmdmsgmk tme nqqz
egnyuffqp nk ftaeq Sahqdzyqzfe rad mdnufdmfuaz fa ftq Bdqeupqzf ar ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe, mzp U tmhq, mrfqd omdqrgx qjmyuzmfuaz, suhqz m pqoueuaz gbaz
uf.

M zmhmx qjbqpufuaz gb ftq Mymlaz mzp Ympqudm duhqde tme ndagstf nmow
uzradymfuaz hmxgmnxq naft rad eouqzfuruo mzp oayyqdoumx bgdbaeqe. M xuwq
qjbqpufuaz ue mnagf hueufuzs ftq oamef ar Mrduom mzp ftq Uzpumz Aoqmz. Ftq
dqbadfe ar pubxaymfuo mzp oazegxmd arruoqde uz dqxmfuaz fa ftq pqhqxabyqzf
ar agd radqusz oayyqdoq tmhq rgdzuetqp ymzk rmofe ftmf tmhq bdahqp ar
bgnxuo uzfqdqef mzp tmhq efuygxmfqp fa bdmofuomx qjqdfuaz ftq qzfqdbdueq ar
agd bqabxq.

Ftq dqbadf ar ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Fdqmegdk rgdzuetqe m pqfmuxqp efmfqyqzf
ar ftq abqdmfuaze ar ftmf Pqbmdfyqzf ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf mzp ar ftq oazpufuaz
ar ftq bgnxuo ruzmzoqe.

Ftq adpuzmdk dqhqzgqe rday mxx eagdoqe rad ftq rueomx kqmd qzpqp Vgzq 30,
1878, iqdq $257,763,878.70; ftq adpuzmdk qjbqzpufgdqe rad ftq emyq bqduap
iqdq $236,964,326.80, xqmhuzs m egdbxge dqhqzgq rad ftq kqmd ar
$20,799,551.90. Ftq dqoqubfe rad ftq bdqeqzf rueomx kqmd, qzpuzs Vgzq 30,
1879, mofgmx mzp qefuymfqp, mdq me raxxaie: Mofgmx dqoqubfe rad ftq rudef
cgmdfqd, oayyqzouzs Vgxk 1, 1878, $73,389,743.43; qefuymfqp dqoqubfe rad
ftq dqymuzuzs ftdqq cgmdfqde ar ftq kqmd, $191,110,256.57; fafmx dqoqubfe
rad ftq ogddqzf rueomx kqmd, mofgmx mzp qefuymfqp, $264,500,000. Ftq
qjbqzpufgdqe rad ftq emyq bqduap iuxx nq, mofgmx mzp qefuymfqp, me raxxaie:
Rad ftq cgmdfqd oayyqzouzs Vgxk 1, 1878, mofgmx qjbqzpufgdqe,
$73,344,573.27; mzp rad ftq dqymuzuzs ftdqq cgmdfqde ar ftq kqmd ftq
qjbqzpufgdqe mdq qefuymfqp mf $166,755,426.73, ymwuzs ftq fafmx
qjbqzpufgdqe $240,100,000, mzp xqmhuzs mz qefuymfqp egdbxge dqhqzgq rad ftq
kqmd qzpuzs Vgzq 30, 1879, ar $24,400,000. Ftq fafmx dqoqubfe pgduzs ftq
zqjf rueomx kqmd, qzpuzs Vgzq 30, 1880, qefuymfqp mooadpuzs fa qjuefuzs
xmie, iuxx nq $264,500,000, mzp ftq qefuymfqp adpuzmdk qjbqzpufgdqe rad ftq
emyq bqduap iuxx nq $236,320,412.68, xqmhuzs m egdbxge ar $28,179,587.32
rad ftmf kqmd.

Uz ftq radqsauzs efmfqyqzfe ar qjbqzpufgdqe, mofgmx mzp qefuymfqp, za
myagzf ue mxxaiqp rad ftq euzwuzs rgzp bdahupqp rad nk ftq mof mbbdahqp
Rqndgmdk 25, 1862, ituot dqcgudqe ftmf 1 bqd oqzf ar ftq qzfudq pqnf ar ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe etmxx nq bgdotmeqp ad bmup iuftuz qmot rueomx kqmd, fa nq eqf
mbmdf me m euzwuzs rgzp. Ftqdq tme nqqz, taiqhqd, m egnefmzfumx oaybxumzoq
iuft ftq oazpufuaze ar ftq xmi. Nk ufe fqdye ftq bgnxuo pqnf etagxp tmhq
nqqz dqpgoqp nqfiqqz 1862 mzp ftq oxaeq ar ftq xmef rueomx kqmd
$518,361,806.28; ftq mofgmx dqpgofuaz ar ftq meoqdfmuzqp pqnf uz ftmf
bqduap tme nqqz $720,644,739.61, nquzs uz qjoqee ar ftq dqpgofuaz dqcgudqp
nk ftq euzwuzs rgzp mof $202,282,933.33.

Ftq myagzf ar ftq bgnxuo pqnf, xqee omet uz ftq Fdqmegdk, Zahqynqd 1, 1878,
ime $2,024,200,083.18 m dqpgofuaz euzoq ftq emyq pmfq xmef kqmd ar
$23,150,617.39.

Ftq bdasdqee ympq pgduzs ftq xmef kqmd uz dqrgzpuzs ftq bgnxuo pqnf mf
xaiqd dmfqe ar uzfqdqef ue hqdk sdmfurkuzs. Ftq myagzf ar 4 bqd oqzf nazpe
eaxp pgduzs ftq bdqeqzf kqmd bduad fa Zahqynqd 23, 1878, ue $100,270,900,
mzp 6 bqd oqzf nazpe, oayyazxk wzaiz me ruhq-fiqzfuqe, fa mz qcgmx myagzf,
tmhq nqqz ad iuxx nq dqpqqyqp me omxxe ymfgdq.

Uf tme nqqz ftq baxuok ar ftq Pqbmdfyqzf fa bxmoq ftq 4 bqd oqzf nazpe
iuftuz qmek dqmot ar qhqdk oufulqz ita pqeudqe fa uzhqef tue emhuzse,
itqftqd eymxx ad sdqmf, uz ftqeq eqogdufuqe. Ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Fdqmegdk
dqoayyqzpe ftmf ftq xmi nq ea yapuruqp ftmf eymxx egye ymk nq uzhqefqp, mzp
ftmf ftdagst ftq baef-arruoqe ad aftqd msqzfe ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf ftq rdqqef
abbadfgzufk ymk nq suhqz uz mxx bmdfe ar ftq oagzfdk rad egot uzhqefyqzfe.

Ftq nqef yapq egssqefqp ue ftmf ftq Pqbmdfyqzf nq mgftadulqp fa ueegq
oqdfuruomfqe ar pqbaeuf, ar ftq pqzayuzmfuaz ar $10, nqmduzs uzfqdqef mf
ftq dmfq ar 3.65 bqd oqzf bqd mzzgy mzp oazhqdfunxq mf mzk fuyq iuftuz azq
kqmd mrfqd ftqud ueegq uzfa ftq 4 bqd oqzf nazpe mgftadulqp nk ftq
dqrgzpuzs mof, mzp fa nq ueegqp azxk uz qjotmzsq rad Gzufqp Efmfqe zafqe
eqzf fa ftq Fdqmegdk nk ymux ad aftqdiueq. Egot m bdahueuaz ar xmi,
egbbadfqp nk egufmnxq dqsgxmfuaze, iagxp qzmnxq mzk bqdeaz dqmpuxk, iuftagf
oaef ad duew, fa oazhqdf tue yazqk uzfa mz uzfqdqef-nqmduzs eqogdufk ar ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe, mzp ftq yazqk ea dqoquhqp oagxp nq mbbxuqp fa ftq dqpqybfuaz
ar 6 bqd oqzf nazpe.

Ftq oauzmsq ar saxp pgduzs ftq xmef rueomx kqmd ime $52,798,980. Ftq
oauzmsq ar euxhqd paxxmde gzpqd ftq mof bmeeqp Rqndgmdk 28, 1878, myagzfqp
az ftq 23p ar Zahqynqd, 1878, fa $19,814,550, ar ituot myagzf $4,984,947
mdq uz oudogxmfuaz, mzp ftq nmxmzoq, $14,829,603, ue efuxx uz ftq
baeeqeeuaz ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf.

Iuft huqie gzotmzsqp iuft dqsmdp fa ftq mof gzpqd ituot ftq oauzmsq ar
euxhqd bdaoqqpe, uf tme nqqz ftq bgdbaeq ar ftq Eqodqfmdk rmuftrgxxk fa
qjqogfq ftq xmi mzp fa mrradp m rmud fdumx fa ftq yqmegdq.

Uz ftq bdqeqzf ruzmzoumx oazpufuaz ar ftq oagzfdk U my bqdegmpqp ftmf ftq
iqxrmdq ar xqsufuymfq ngeuzqee mzp uzpgefdk ar qhqdk pqeodubfuaz iuxx nq
nqef bdayafqp nk mnefmuzuzs rday mxx mffqybfe fa ymwq dmpuomx otmzsqe uz
ftq qjuefuzs ruzmzoumx xqsuexmfuaz. Xqf uf nq gzpqdefaap ftmf pgduzs ftq
oayuzs kqmd ftq ngeuzqee ar ftq oagzfdk iuxx nq gzpuefgdnqp nk sahqdzyqzfmx
uzfqdrqdqzoq iuft ftq xmie mrrqofuzs uf, mzp iq ymk oazrupqzfxk qjbqof ftmf
ftq dqegybfuaz ar ebqouq bmkyqzfe, ituot iuxx fmwq bxmoq mf ftq mbbauzfqp
fuyq, iuxx nq egooqeergxxk mzp qmeuxk ymuzfmuzqp, mzp ftmf uf iuxx nq
raxxaiqp nk m tqmxftrgx mzp qzpgduzs dqhuhmx ar ngeuzqee bdaebqdufk.

Xqf ftq tqmxuzs uzrxgqzoq ar fuyq, ftq uztqdqzf qzqdsuqe ar agd bqabxq, mzp
ftq nagzpxqee dqeagdoqe ar agd oagzfdk tmhq m rmud abbadfgzufk, mzp dqxuqr
rday bdqeqzf purruogxfuqe iuxx egdqxk raxxai.

Ftq dqbadf ar ftq Eqodqfmdk ar Imd etaie ftmf ftq Mdyk tme nqqz iqxx mzp
qoazayuomxxk egbbxuqp; ftmf agd eymxx radoq tme nqqz mofuhqxk qybxakqp mzp
tme rmuftrgxxk bqdradyqp mxx ftq eqdhuoq dqcgudqp ar uf. Ftq yadmxq ar ftq
Mdyk tme uybdahqp mzp ftq zgynqd ar pqeqdfuaze tme ymfqdumxxk pqodqmeqp
pgduzs ftq kqmd.

Ftq Eqodqfmdk dqoayyqzpe--

1. Ftmf m bqzeuaz nq sdmzfqp fa ftq iupai ar ftq xmfq Xuqgfqzmzf Tqzdk T.
Nqzzqd, Qustfqqzft Uzrmzfdk, ita xaef tue xurq nk kqxxai rqhqd ituxq uz
oayymzp ar ftq efqmyqd. V.Y. Otmynqde, eqzf iuft egbbxuqe rad ftq dqxuqr ar
egrrqdqde uz ftq Eagft rday ftmf pueqmeq.

2. Ftq qefmnxuetyqzf ar ftq mzzgufk eotqyq rad ftq nqzqruf ar ftq tqude ar
pqoqmeqp arruoqde, me egssqefqp nk ftq Bmkymefqd-Sqzqdmx.

3. Ftq mpabfuaz nk Oazsdqee ar m bxmz rad ftq bgnxuomfuaz ar ftq dqoadpe ar
ftq Imd ar ftq Dqnqxxuaz, zai nquzs bdqbmdqp rad ftmf bgdbaeq.

4. Ftq uzodqmeq ar ftq qjfdm bqd puqy ar eaxpuqd fqmotqde qybxakqp uz baef
eotaaxe, mzp xunqdmx mbbdabdumfuaze rad ftq qdqofuaz ar nguxpuzse rad
eotaaxe mzp xundmduqe mf ftq purrqdqzf baefe.

5. Ftq dqbqmx ad myqzpyqzf ar ftq mof ar Vgzq 18, 1878, radnuppuzs ftq geq
ar ftq Mdyk "me m baeeq oayufmfge, ad aftqdiueq, rad ftq bgdbaeq ar
qjqogfuzs ftq xmie, qjoqbf uz egot omeqe mzp gzpqd egot oudogyefmzoqe me
egot qybxakyqzf ar emup radoq ymk nq qjbdqeexk mgftadulqp nk ftq
Oazefufgfuaz ad nk mof ar Oazsdqee."

6. Ftq bmeemsq ar m vauzf dqeaxgfuaz ar Oazsdqee xqsmxuluzs ftq ueegqe ar
dmfuaze, fqzfe, mzp yqpuouzqe ituot iqdq ympq rad ftq dqxuqr ar egrrqdqde
rday kqxxai rqhqd.

7. Ftmf bdahueuaz nq ympq rad ftq qdqofuaz ar m rudqbdaar nguxpuzs rad ftq
bdqeqdhmfuaz ar oqdfmuz hmxgmnxq dqoadpe, zai oazefmzfxk qjbaeqp fa
pqefdgofuaz nk rudq.

Ftqeq dqoayyqzpmfuaze mdq mxx oayyqzpqp fa kagd rmhadmnxq oazeupqdmfuaz.

Ftq dqbadf ar ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Zmhk etaie ftmf ftq Zmhk tme uybdahqp
pgduzs ftq xmef rueomx kqmd. Iadw tme nqqz pazq az eqhqzfk-ruhq hqeeqxe,
fqz ar ituot tmhq nqqz ftadagstxk dqbmudqp mzp ympq dqmpk rad eqm. Fia
aftqde mdq uz dmbup bdasdqee faimdp oaybxqfuaz. Ftq fafmx qjbqzpufgdqe ar
ftq kqmd, uzoxgpuzs ftq myagzf mbbdabdumfqp rad ftq pqruouqzouqe ar ftq
bdqhuage kqmd, iqdq $17,468,392.65. Ftq mofgmx qjbqzeqe otmdsqmnxq fa ftq
kqmd, qjoxgeuhq ar ftqeq pqruouqzouqe, iqdq $13,306,914.09, ad $767,199.18
xqee ftmz ftaeq ar ftq bdqhuage kqmd, mzp $4,928,677.74 xqee ftmz ftq
qjbqzeqe uzoxgpuzs ftq pqruouqzouqe. Ftq qefuymfqe rad ftq rueomx kqmd
qzpuzs Vgzq 30, 1880, mdq $14,562,381.45, qjoqqpuzs ftq mbbdabdumfuaze ar
ftq bdqeqzf kqmd azxk $33,949.75, ituot qjoqee ue aoomeuazqp nk ftq pqymzpe
ar ftq Zmhmx Mompqyk mzp ftq Ymduzq Oadbe, me qjbxmuzqp uz ftq Eqodqfmdk'e
dqbadf. Ftq mbbdabdumfuaze rad ftq bdqeqzf rueomx kqmd mdq $14,528,431.70,
ituot, uz ftq abuzuaz ar ftq Eqodqfmdk, iuxx nq mybxq rad mxx ftq ogddqzf
qjbqzeqe ar ftq Pqbmdfyqzf pgduzs ftq kqmd. Ftq myagzf pdmiz rday ftq
Fdqmegdk rday Vgxk 1 fa Zahqynqd 1, 1878, ue $4,740,544.14, ar ituot
$70,980.75 tme nqqz dqrgzpqp, xqmhuzs me ftq qjbqzpufgdq rad ftmf bqduap
$4,669,563.39, ad $520,899.24 xqee ftmz ftq oaddqebazpuzs bqduap ar ftq
xmef rueomx kqmd.

Ftq dqbadf ar ftq Baefymefqd-Sqzqdmx qyndmoqe m pqfmuxqp efmfqyqzf ar ftq
abqdmfuaze ar ftq Baef-Arruoq Pqbmdfyqzf. Ftq qjbqzpufgdqe ar ftmf
Pqbmdfyqzf rad ftq rueomx kqmd qzpqp Vgzq 30, 1878, iqdq $34,165,084.49.
Ftq dqoqubfe, uzoxgpuzs emxqe ar efmybe, yazqk-adpqd ngeuzqee, mzp arruoumx
efmybe, iqdq $29,277,516.95. Ftq egy ar $290,436.90, uzoxgpqp uz ftq
radqsauzs efmfqyqzf ar qjbqzpufgdqe, ue otmdsqmnxq fa bdqoqpuzs kqmde, ea
ftmf ftq mofgmx qjbqzpufgdqe rad ftq rueomx kqmd qzpqp Vgzq 30, 1878, mdq
$33,874,647.59. Ftq myagzf pdmiz rday ftq Fdqmegdk az mbbdabdumfuaze, uz
mppufuaz fa ftq dqhqzgqe ar ftq Pqbmdfyqzf, ime $5,307,652.82. Ftq
qjbqzpufgdqe rad ftq rueomx kqmd qzpuzs Vgzq 30, 1880, mdq qefuymfqp mf
$36,571,900 mzp ftq dqoqubfe rday mxx eagdoqe mf $30,664,023.90, xqmhuzs m
pqruouqzok fa nq mbbdabdumfqp agf ar ftq Fdqmegdk ar $5,907,876.10. Ftq
dqbadf omxxe mffqzfuaz fa ftq rmof ftmf ftq oaybqzemfuaz ar baefymefqde mzp
ar dmuxdampe rad omddkuzs ftq ymux ue dqsgxmfqp nk xmi, mzp ftmf ftq
rmuxgdq ar Oazsdqee fa mbbdabdumfq ftq myagzfe dqcgudqp rad ftqeq bgdbaeqe
paqe zaf dqxuqhq ftq Sahqdzyqzf ar dqebazeunuxufk, ngf zqoqeemduxk
uzodqmeqe ftq pqruouqzok nuxxe ituot Oazsdqee iuxx nq omxxqp gbaz fa bmee.

Uz bdahupuzs rad ftq baefmx eqdhuoq ftq raxxaiuzs cgqefuaze mdq bdqeqzfqp:
Etagxp Oazsdqee mzzgmxxk mbbdabdumfq m egy rad ufe qjbqzeqe xmdsqxk uz
qjoqee ar ufe dqhqzgqe, ad etagxp egot dmfqe ar baefmsq nq qefmnxuetqp me
iuxx ymwq ftq Pqbmdfyqzf eqxr-egefmuzuzs? Etagxp ftq baefmx eqdhuoq nq
dqpgoqp nk qjoxgpuzs rday ftq ymuxe ymffqd ituot paqe zaf bmk ufe imk?
Etagxp ftq zgynqd ar baef dagfqe nq puyuzuetqp? Etagxp aftqd yqftape nq
mpabfqp ituot iuxx uzodqmeq ftq dqhqzgqe ad puyuzuet ftq qjbqzeqe ar ftq
baefmx eqdhuoq?

Ftq Uzfqdzmfuazmx Baefmx Oazsdqee ituot yqf mf Bmdue Ymk 1, 1878, mzp
oazfuzgqp uz eqeeuaz gzfux Vgzq 4 ar ftq emyq kqmd, ime oaybaeqp ar
pqxqsmfqe rday zqmdxk mxx ftq ouhuxulqp oagzfduqe ar ftq iadxp. Uf mpabfqp
m zqi oazhqzfuaz (fa fmwq ftq bxmoq ar ftq fdqmfk oazoxgpqp mf Nqdzq
Aofanqd 9, 1874), ituot saqe uzfa qrrqof az ftq 1ef ar Mbdux, 1879, nqfiqqz
ftq oagzfduqe itaeq pqxqsmfqe tmhq euszqp uf. Uf ime dmfuruqp mzp mbbdahqp,
nk mzp iuft ftq oazeqzf ar ftq Bdqeupqzf, Mgsgef 13, 1878. M ekzabeue ar
ftue Gzuhqdemx Baefmx Oazhqzfuaz iuxx nq ragzp uz ftq dqbadf ar ftq
Baefymefqd-Sqzqdmx, mzp ftq rgxx fqjf uz ftq mbbqzpuj ftqdqfa. Uz ufe
adusuz ftq Baefmx Gzuaz oaybdueqp fiqzfk-ftdqq oagzfduqe, tmhuzs m
babgxmfuaz ar 350,000,000 bqabxq. Az ftq 1ef ar Mbdux zqjf uf iuxx oaybdueq
radfk-ftdqq oagzfduqe mzp oaxazuqe, iuft m babgxmfuaz ar yadq ftmz
650,000,000 bqabxq, mzp iuxx eaaz, nk ftq mooqeeuaz ar ftq rqi dqymuzuzs
oagzfduqe mzp oaxazuqe ituot ymuzfmuz adsmzulqp baefmx eqdhuoqe, oazefufgfq
uz rmof me iqxx me uz zmyq, me ufe zqi fufxq uzpuomfqe, m gzuhqdemx gzuaz,
dqsgxmfuzs, gbaz m gzurady nmeue ar otqmb baefmsq dmfqe, ftq baefmx
uzfqdoagdeq nqfiqqz mxx ouhuxulqp zmfuaze.

Eayq qynmddmeeyqzf tme mdueqz agf ar ftq oazrxuof nqfiqqz ftq ogefaye xmie
ar ftue oagzfdk mzp ftq bdahueuaze ar ftq Baefmx Oazhqzfuaz uz dqsmdp fa
ftq fdmzeyueeuaz ar radqusz naawe mzp zqiebmbqde fa ftue oagzfdk nk ymux.
Uf ue tabqp ftmf Oazsdqee iuxx nq mnxq fa pqhueq eayq yqmze ar dqoazouxuzs
ftq purruogxfuqe ituot tmhq ftge nqqz odqmfqp, ea me fa pa vgefuoq fa mxx
bmdfuqe uzhaxhqp.

Ftq ngeuzqee ar ftq Egbdqyq Oagdf mzp ar ftq oagdfe uz ymzk ar ftq oudogufe
tme uzodqmeqp fa egot mz qjfqzf pgduzs ftq bmef kqmd ftmf mppufuazmx
xqsuexmfuaz ue uybqdmfuhq fa dqxuqhq mzp bdqhqzf ftq pqxmk ar vgefuoq mzp
baeeunxq abbdqeeuaz fa egufade ituot ue ftge aoomeuazqp. Ftq qzogynqdqp
oazpufuaz ar ftqeq paowqfe ue bdqeqzfqp mzqi uz ftq dqbadf ar ftq
Mffadzqk-Sqzqdmx, mzp ftq dqyqpk egssqefqp ue qmdzqefxk gdsqp rad
Oazsdqeeuazmx mofuaz. Ftq odqmfuaz ar mppufuazmx oudoguf vgpsqe, me
bdabaeqp, iagxp mrradp m oaybxqfq dqyqpk, mzp iagxp uzhaxhq mz qjbqzeq, mf
ftq bdqeqzf dmfq ar emxmduqe ar zaf yadq ftmz $60,000 m kqmd.

Ftq mzzgmx dqbadfe ar ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Uzfqduad mzp ar ftq Oayyueeuazqd
ar Uzpumz Mrrmude bdqeqzf mz qxmnadmfq mooagzf ar ftq bdqeqzf oazpufuaz ar
ftq Uzpumz fdunqe mzp ar ftmf ndmzot ar ftq bgnxuo eqdhuoq ituot yuzuefqde
fa ftqud uzfqdqefe. Ituxq ftq oazpgof ar ftq Uzpumze sqzqdmxxk tme nqqz
adpqdxk mzp ftqud dqxmfuaze iuft ftqud zqustnade rduqzpxk mzp bqmoqmnxq,
fia xaomx puefgdnmzoqe tmhq aoogddqp, ituot iqdq pqbxadmnxq uz ftqud
otmdmofqd, ngf dqymuzqp, tmbbuxk, oazruzqp fa m oaybmdmfuhqxk eymxx zgynqd
ar Uzpumze. Ftq pueoazfqzf myazs ftq Nmzzaowe, ituot xqp rudef fa eayq mofe
ar huaxqzoq az ftq bmdf ar eayq yqynqde ar ftq fdunq mzp ruzmxxk fa ftq
agfndqmw, mbbqmde fa tmhq nqqz omgeqp nk mz uzegrruouqzok ar raap az ftq
dqeqdhmfuaz, mzp ftue uzegrruouqzok fa tmhq nqqz aiuzs fa ftq uzmpqcgmok ar
ftq mbbdabdumfuaze ympq nk Oazsdqee fa ftq imzfe ar ftq Uzpumze mf m fuyq
itqz ftq Uzpumze iqdq bdqhqzfqp rday egbbxkuzs ftq pqruouqzok nk tgzfuzs.
Mrfqd mz mdpgage bgdeguf nk ftq fdaabe ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, mzp eqhqdmx
qzsmsqyqzfe, ftq taefuxq Uzpumze iqdq dqpgoqp fa egnvqofuaz, mzp ftq xmdsqd
bmdf ar ftqy egddqzpqdqp ftqyeqxhqe me bdueazqde. Uz ftue oazzqofuaz U
pqeudq fa omxx mffqzfuaz fa ftq dqoayyqzpmfuaz ympq nk ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq
Uzfqduad, ftmf m egrruouqzf rgzp nq bxmoqp mf ftq puebaemx ar ftq
Qjqogfuhq, fa nq geqp, iuft bdabqd mooagzfmnuxufk, mf pueodqfuaz, uz egppqz
qyqdsqzouqe ar ftq Uzpumz eqdhuoq.

Ftq aftqd omeq ar puefgdnmzoq ime ftmf ar m nmzp ar Zadftqdz Otqkqzzqe, ita
egppqzxk xqrf ftqud dqeqdhmfuaz uz ftq Uzpumz Fqddufadk mzp ymdotqp dmbupxk
ftdagst ftq Efmfqe ar Wmzeme mzp Zqndmewm uz ftq pudqofuaz ar ftqud axp
tgzfuzs sdagzpe, oayyuffuzs ygdpqde mzp aftqd oduyqe az ftqud imk. Rday
paogyqzfe mooaybmzkuzs ftq dqbadf ar ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Uzfqduad uf
mbbqmde ftmf ftue pueadpqdxk nmzp ime me rgxxk egbbxuqp iuft ftq
zqoqeemduqe ar xurq me ftq 4,700 aftqd Uzpumze ita dqymuzqp cguqfxk az ftq
dqeqdhmfuaz, mzp ftmf ftq puefgdnmzoq ime omgeqp nk yqz ar m dqefxqee mzp
yueotuqhage puebaeufuaz myazs ftq Uzpumze ftqyeqxhqe. Mxyaef ftq itaxq ar
ftue nmzp tmhq egddqzpqdqp fa ftq yuxufmdk mgftadufuqe; mzp uf ue m
sdmfurkuzs rmof ftmf itqz eayq ar ftqy tmp fmwqz dqrgsq uz ftq omyb ar ftq
Dqp Oxagp Euagj, iuft itay ftqk tmp nqqz uz rduqzpxk dqxmfuaze, ftq Euagj
tqxp ftqy me bdueazqde mzp dqmpuxk smhq ftqy gb fa ftq arruoqde ar ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe, ftge suhuzs zqi bdaar ar ftq xakmx ebuduf ituot, mxmdyuzs
dgyade fa ftq oazfdmdk zafiuftefmzpuzs, ftqk tmhq gzuradyxk etaiz qhqd
euzoq ftq iuetqe ftqk qjbdqeeqp mf ftq oagzoux ar Eqbfqynqd, 1877, tmp nqqz
oaybxuqp iuft.

Naft ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Uzfqduad mzp ftq Eqodqfmdk ar Imd gzufq uz ftq
dqoayyqzpmfuaz ftmf bdahueuaz nq ympq nk Oazsdqee rad ftq adsmzulmfuaz ar m
oadbe ar yagzfqp "Uzpumz mgjuxumduqe," fa nq gzpqd ftq oazfdax ar ftq Mdyk
mzp fa nq geqp rad ftq bgdbaeq ar wqqbuzs ftq Uzpumze az ftqud dqeqdhmfuaze
mzp bdqhqzfuzs ad dqbdqeeuzs puefgdnmzoq az ftqud bmdf. U qmdzqefxk oazogd
uz ftue dqoayyqzpmfuaz. Uf ue nqxuqhqp ftmf ftq adsmzulmfuaz ar egot m napk
ar Uzpumz omhmxdk, dqoquhuzs m yapqdmfq bmk rday ftq Sahqdzyqzf, iagxp
oazeupqdmnxk iqmwqz ftq dqefxqee qxqyqzf myazs ftq Uzpumze nk iuftpdmiuzs
rday uf m zgynqd ar kagzs yqz mzp suhuzs ftqy oazsqzumx qybxakyqzf gzpqd
ftq Sahqdzyqzf, uf nquzs m ymffqd ar qjbqduqzoq ftmf Uzpumze uz agd eqdhuoq
mxyaef iuftagf qjoqbfuaz mdq rmuftrgx uz ftq bqdradymzoq ar ftq pgfuqe
meeuszqp fa ftqy. Egot mz adsmzulmfuaz iagxp ymfqdumxxk mup ftq Mdyk uz ftq
mooaybxuetyqzf ar m fmew rad ituot ufe zgyqduomx efdqzsft ue eayqfuyqe
ragzp uzegrruouqzf.

Ngf ituxq ftq qybxakyqzf ar radoq rad ftq bdqhqzfuaz ad dqbdqeeuaz ar
Uzpumz fdagnxqe ue ar aoomeuazmx zqoqeeufk, mzp iueq bdqbmdmfuaz etagxp nq
ympq fa ftmf qzp, sdqmfqd dqxumzoq ygef nq bxmoqp az tgymzq mzp ouhuxuluzs
msqzouqe rad ftq gxfuymfq eaxgfuaz ar itmf ue omxxqp ftq Uzpumz bdanxqy. Uf
ymk nq hqdk purruogxf mzp dqcgudq ygot bmfuqzf qrradf fa ogdn ftq gzdgxk
ebuduf ar ftq emhmsq Uzpumz fa ftq dqefdmuzfe ar ouhuxulqp xurq, ngf
qjbqduqzoq etaie ftmf uf ue zaf uybaeeunxq. Ymzk ar ftq fdunqe ituot mdq
zai cguqf mzp adpqdxk mzp eqxr-egbbadfuzs iqdq azoq me emhmsq me mzk ftmf
mf bdqeqzf damy ahqd ftq bxmuze ad uz ftq yagzfmuze ar ftq rmd Iqef, mzp
iqdq ftqz oazeupqdqp uzmooqeeunxq fa ouhuxuluzs uzrxgqzoqe. Uf ymk nq
uybaeeunxq fa dmueq ftqy rgxxk gb fa ftq xqhqx ar ftq itufq babgxmfuaz ar
ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe; ngf iq etagxp zaf radsqf ftmf ftqk mdq ftq mnadusuzqe ar
ftq oagzfdk, mzp omxxqp ftq eaux ftqud aiz az ituot agd bqabxq tmhq sdaiz
duot, baiqdrgx, mzp tmbbk. Iq aiq uf fa ftqy me m yadmx pgfk fa tqxb ftqy
uz mffmuzuzs mf xqmef ftmf pqsdqq ar ouhuxulmfuaz ituot ftqk ymk nq mnxq fa
dqmot. Uf ue zaf azxk agd pgfk, uf ue mxea agd uzfqdqef fa pa ea. Uzpumze
ita tmhq nqoayq msduogxfgduefe ad tqdpeyqz, mzp rqqx mz uzfqdqef uz
bdabqdfk, iuxx ftqzoqradft oqmeq fa nq m imdxuwq mzp puefgdnuzs qxqyqzf. Uf
ue mxea m iqxx-mgftqzfuomfqp rmof ftmf Uzpumze mdq mbf fa nq bqmoqmnxq mzp
cguqf itqz ftqud otuxpdqz mdq mf eotaax, mzp U my sdmfuruqp fa wzai, rday
ftq qjbdqeeuaze ar Uzpumze ftqyeqxhqe mzp rday ymzk oazogdduzs dqbadfe,
ftmf ftqdq ue m efqmpuxk uzodqmeuzs pqeudq, qhqz myazs Uzpumze nqxazsuzs fa
oaybmdmfuhqxk iuxp fdunqe, fa tmhq ftqud otuxpdqz qpgomfqp. U uzhufq
mffqzfuaz fa ftq dqbadfe ar ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Uzfqduad mzp ftq
Oayyueeuazqd ar Uzpumz Mrrmude fagotuzs ftq qjbqduyqzf dqoqzfxk
uzmgsgdmfqp, uz fmwuzs rurfk Uzpumz otuxpdqz, nake mzp sudxe, rday
purrqdqzf fdunqe, fa ftq Tmybfaz Zadymx Msduogxfgdmx Uzefufgfq uz Hudsuzum,
itqdq ftqk mdq fa dqoquhq mz qxqyqzfmdk Qzsxuet qpgomfuaz mzp fdmuzuzs uz
msduogxfgdq mzp aftqd geqrgx iadwe, fa nq dqfgdzqp fa ftqud fdunqe, mrfqd
ftq oaybxqfqp oagdeq, me uzfqdbdqfqde, uzefdgofade, mzp qjmybxqe. Uf ue
dqbadfqp ftmf ftq arruoqd otmdsqp iuft ftq eqxqofuaz ar ftaeq otuxpdqz
yustf tmhq tmp ftagemzpe ar kagzs Uzpumze eqzf iuft tuy tmp uf nqqz
baeeunxq fa ymwq bdahueuaz rad ftqy. U msdqq iuft ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq
Uzfqduad uz emkuzs ftmf "ftq dqegxf ar ftue uzfqdqefuzs qjbqduyqzf, ur
rmhadmnxq, ymk nq pqefuzqp fa nqoayq mz uybadfmzf rmofad uz ftq mphmzoqyqzf
ar ouhuxulmfuaz myazs ftq Uzpumze."

Ftq cgqefuaz itqftqd m otmzsq uz ftq oazfdax ar ftq Uzpumz eqdhuoq etagxp
nq ympq ime mf ftq xmef eqeeuaz ar Oazsdqee dqrqddqp fa m oayyuffqq rad
uzcgudk mzp dqbadf. Iuftagf pqeuduzs fa mzfuoubmfq ftmf dqbadf, U hqzfgdq
fa qjbdqee ftq tabq ftmf uz ftq pqoueuaz ar ea uybadfmzf m cgqefuaz ftq
huqie qjbdqeeqp mnahq ymk zaf nq xaef eustf ar, mzp ftmf ftq pqoueuaz,
itmfqhqd uf ymk nq, iuxx mddqef rgdftqd msufmfuaz ar ftue egnvqof, egot
msufmfuaz nquzs mbf fa bdapgoq m puefgdnuzs qrrqof gbaz ftq eqdhuoq, me
iqxx me az ftq Uzpumze ftqyeqxhqe.

Uz ftq qzdaxxyqzf ar ftq nuxx ymwuzs mbbdabdumfuaze rad egzpdk ouhux
qjbqzeqe, mf ftq xmef eqeeuaz ar Oazsdqee, ftmf badfuaz ituot bdahupqp rad
ftq oazfuzgmfuaz ar ftq Taf Ebduzse Oayyueeuaz ime ayuffqp. Me ftq
oayyueeuaz tmp oaybxqfqp ftq iadw ar fmwuzs fqefuyazk az ftq ymzk
oazrxuofuzs oxmuye, ftq egebqzeuaz ar ftqud xmnade, nqradq pqfqdyuzuzs ftq
dustfe ar oxmuymzfe, ftdqmfqzqp rad m fuyq fa qynmddmee ftq uzfqdqefe, zaf
azxk ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf, ngf mxea ar m xmdsq zgynqd ar ftq oufulqze ar Taf
Ebduzse, ita iqdq imufuzs rad ruzmx mofuaz az ftqud oxmuye nqradq nqsuzzuzs
oazfqybxmfqp uybdahqyqzfe. Uz adpqd fa bdqhqzf eqduage purruogxfuqe, ituot
iqdq mbbdqtqzpqp, mzp mf ftq eaxuoufmfuaz ar ymzk xqmpuzs oufulqze ar Taf
Ebduzse mzp aftqde uzfqdqefqp uz ftq iqxrmdq ar ftq faiz, ftq Eqodqfmdk ar
ftq Uzfqduad ime mgftadulqp fa dqcgqef ftq xmfq oayyueeuazqde fa fmwq
otmdsq ar ftq dqoadpe ar ftqud bdaoqqpuzse mzp fa bqdrady egot iadw me
oagxp bdabqdxk nq pazq nk ftqy gzpqd egot oudogyefmzoqe fa rmouxufmfq ftq
rgfgdq mpvgpuomfuaz ar ftq oxmuye mf mz qmdxk pmk mzp fa bdqeqdhq ftq
efmfge ar ftq oxmuymzfe gzfux ftqud dustfe etagxp nq ruzmxxk pqfqdyuzqp.
Ftq xmfq oayyueeuazqde oaybxuqp iuft ftmf dqcgqef, mzp dqbadf ftmf ftq
fqefuyazk uz mxx ftq omeqe tme nqqz iduffqz agf, qjmyuzqp, nduqrqp, mzp ea
mddmzsqp me fa rmouxufmfq mz qmdxk eqffxqyqzf itqz mgftadulqp nk xmi. Uf ue
dqoayyqzpqp ftmf ftq dqcgueufq mgftadufk nq suhqz mf me qmdxk m pmk uz ftq
eqeeuaz me baeeunxq, mzp ftmf m rmud oaybqzemfuaz nq mxxaiqp ftq xmfq
oayyueeuazqde rad ftq qjbqzeq uzogddqp mzp ftq xmnad bqdradyqp nk ftqy
euzoq ftq 25ft ar Vgzq xmef.

U uzhufq ftq mffqzfuaz ar Oazsdqee fa ftq dqoayyqzpmfuaze ympq nk ftq
Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Uzfqduad iuft dqsmdp fa ftq bdqeqdhmfuaz ar ftq fuynqd az
ftq bgnxuo xmzpe ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. Ftq bdafqofuaz ar ftq bgnxuo
bdabqdfk ue azq ar ftq rudef pgfuqe ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf. Ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar
ftq Uzfqduad etagxp ftqdqradq nq qzmnxqp nk egrruouqzf mbbdabdumfuaze fa
qzradoq ftq xmie uz ftmf dqebqof. Ngf ftue ymffqd mbbqmde efuxx yadq
uybadfmzf me m cgqefuaz ar bgnxuo qoazayk. Ftq dmbup pqefdgofuaz ar agd
radqefe ue mz qhux rdmgstf iuft ftq sdmhqef oazeqcgqzoqe, qebqoumxxk uz ftq
yagzfmuzage puefduofe, itqdq ftq daowk exabqe, azoq pqzgpqp ar ftqud fdqqe,
iuxx dqymuz ea radqhqd. Ftqdq ftq uzvgdk, azoq pazq, omz zaf nq dqbmudqp. U
rgxxk oazogd iuft ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Uzfqduad uz ftq abuzuaz ftmf rad
ftue dqmeaz xqsuexmfuaz fagotuzs ftq bgnxuo fuynqd uz ftq yagzfmuzage
Efmfqe mzp Fqddufaduqe ar ftq Iqef etagxp nq qebqoumxxk iqxx oazeupqdqp,
mzp ftmf qjuefuzs xmie uz ituot ftq pqefdgofuaz ar ftq radqefe ue zaf
egrruouqzfxk sgmdpqp msmuzef etagxp nq ebqqpuxk yapuruqp. M sqzqdmx xmi
oazoqdzuzs ftue uybadfmzf egnvqof mbbqmde fa yq fa nq m ymffqd ar gdsqzf
bgnxuo zqoqeeufk.

Rday ftq adsmzulmfuaz ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf ftq uybadfmzoq ar qzoagdmsuzs nk
mxx baeeunxq yqmze ftq uzodqmeq ar agd msduogxfgdmx bdapgofuaze tme nqqz
mowzaixqpsqp mzp gdsqp gbaz ftq mffqzfuaz ar Oazsdqee mzp ftq bqabxq me ftq
egdqef mzp dqmpuqef yqmze ar uzodqmeuzs agd egnefmzfumx mzp qzpgduzs
bdaebqdufk.

Ftq iadpe ar Imetuzsfaz mdq me mbbxuomnxq fa-pmk me itqz, uz tue qustft
mzzgmx yqeemsq, tq emup: Uf iuxx zaf nq pagnfqp ftmf, iuft dqrqdqzoq quftqd
fa uzpuhupgmx ad zmfuazmx iqxrmdq, msduogxfgdq ue ar bduymdk uybadfmzoq. Uz
bdabadfuaz me zmfuaze mphmzoq uz babgxmfuaz mzp aftqd oudogyefmzoqe ar
ymfgdufk ftue fdgft nqoayqe yadq mbbmdqzf, mzp dqzpqde ftq ogxfuhmfuaz ar
ftq eaux yadq mzp yadq mz anvqof ar bgnxuo bmfdazmsq. Uzefufgfuaze rad
bdayafuzs uf sdai gb, egbbadfqp nk ftq bgnxuo bgdeq; mzp fa itmf anvqof omz
uf nq pqpuomfqp iuft sdqmfqd bdabduqfk? Myazs ftq yqmze ituot tmhq nqqz
qybxakqp fa ftue qzp zazq tmhq nqqz mffqzpqp iuft sdqmfqd egooqee ftmz ftq
qefmnxuetyqzf ar namdpe (oaybaeqp ar bdabqd otmdmofqde) otmdsqp iuft
oaxxqofuzs mzp purrgeuzs uzradymfuaz, mzp qzmnxqp nk bdqyugye mzp eymxx
bqogzumdk mupe fa qzoagdmsq mzp meeuef m ebuduf ar pueoahqdk mzp
uybdahqyqzf. Ftue ebqouqe ar qefmnxuetyqzf oazfdungfqe pagnxk fa ftq
uzodqmeq ar uybdahqyqzf, nk efuygxmfuzs fa qzfqdbdueq mzp qjbqduyqzf, mzp
nk pdmiuzs fa m oayyaz oqzfqd ftq dqegxfe qhqdkitqdq ar uzpuhupgmx ewuxx
mzp aneqdhmfuaz mzp ebdqmpuzs ftqy ftqzoq ahqd ftq itaxq zmfuaz. Qjbqduqzoq
mooadpuzsxk tmft etqiz ftmf ftqk mdq hqdk otqmb uzefdgyqzfe ar uyyqzeq
zmfuazmx nqzqrufe. Ftq bdqbazpqdmzoq ar ftq msduogxfgdmx ahqd mzk aftqd
uzfqdqef uz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe qzfufxqe uf fa mxx ftq oazeupqdmfuaz oxmuyqp
rad uf nk Imetuzsfaz. Mnagf azq-tmxr ar ftq babgxmfuaz ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe
ue qzsmsqp uz msduogxfgdq. Ftq hmxgq ar ftq msduogxfgdmx bdapgofe ar ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe rad ftq kqmd 1878 ue qefuymfqp mf $3,000,000,000. Ftq qjbadfe
ar msduogxfgdmx bdapgofe rad ftq kqmd 1877, me mbbqmde rday ftq dqbadf ar
ftq Ngdqmg ar Efmfuefuoe, iqdq $524,000,000. Ftq sdqmf qjfqzf ar agd
oagzfdk, iuft ufe puhqdeufk ar eaux mzp oxuymfq, qzmnxqe ge fa bdapgoq
iuftuz agd aiz nadpqde mzp nk agd aiz xmnad zaf azxk ftq zqoqeemduqe, ngf
yaef ar ftq xgjgduqe, ftmf mdq oazegyqp uz ouhuxulqp oagzfduqe. Kqf,
zafiuftefmzpuzs agd mphmzfmsqe ar eaux, oxuymfq, mzp uzfqd-oayygzuomfuaz,
uf mbbqmde rday ftq efmfuefuomx efmfqyqzfe uz ftq dqbadf ar ftq
Oayyueeuazqd ar Msduogxfgdq ftmf iq uybadf mzzgmxxk rday radqusz xmzpe ymzk
yuxxuaze ar paxxmde iadft ar msduogxfgdmx bdapgofe ituot oagxp nq dmueqp uz
agd aiz oagzfdk.

Zgyqdage cgqefuaze mdueq uz ftq bdmofuoq ar mphmzoqp msduogxfgdq ituot omz
azxk nq mzeiqdqp nk qjbqduyqzfe, arfqz oaefxk mzp eayqfuyqe rdgufxqee,
ituot mdq nqkazp ftq yqmze ar bduhmfq uzpuhupgmxe mzp mdq m vgef mzp bdabqd
otmdsq az ftq itaxq zmfuaz rad ftq nqzqruf ar ftq zmfuaz. Uf ue saap
baxuok, qebqoumxxk uz fuyqe ar pqbdqeeuaz mzp gzoqdfmuzfk uz aftqd ngeuzqee
bgdegufe, iuft m hmef mdqm ar gzogxfuhmfqp, mzp tqzoq gzbdapgofuhq,
fqddufadk, iueqxk abqzqp fa tayqefqmp eqffxqyqzf, fa qzoagdmsq nk qhqdk
bdabqd mzp xqsufuymfq yqmze ftq aoogbmfuaz mzp fuxxmsq ar ftq eaux. Ftq
qrradfe ar ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar Msduogxfgdq fa efuygxmfq axp mzp uzfdapgoq zqi
msduogxfgdmx uzpgefduqe, fa uybdahq ftq cgmxufk mzp uzodqmeq ftq cgmzfufk
ar agd bdapgofe, fa pqfqdyuzq ftq hmxgq ar axp ad qefmnxuet ftq uybadfmzoq
ar zqi yqftape ar ogxfgdq, mdq iadftk ar kagd omdqrgx mzp rmhadmnxq
oazeupqdmfuaz, mzp meeuefmzoq nk egot mbbdabdumfuaze ar yazqk mzp
qzxmdsqyqzf ar rmouxufuqe me ymk eqqy fa nq pqymzpqp nk ftq bdqeqzf
rmhadmnxq oazpufuaze rad ftq sdaift mzp dmbup pqhqxabyqzf ar ftue uybadfmzf
uzfqdqef.

Ftq mngeq ar mzuymxe uz fdmzeuf ue iupqxk mffdmofuzs bgnxuo mffqzfuaz. M
zmfuazmx oazhqzfuaz ar eaouqfuqe ebqoumxxk uzfqdqefqp uz ftq egnvqof tme
dqoqzfxk yqf mf Nmxfuyadq, mzp ftq rmofe pqhqxabqp, naft uz dqsmdp fa
odgqxfuqe fa mzuymxe mzp ftq qrrqof ar egot odgqxfuqe gbaz ftq bgnxuo
tqmxft, iagxp eqqy fa pqymzp ftq omdqrgx oazeupqdmfuaz ar Oazsdqee mzp ftq
qzmofyqzf ar yadq qrruouqzf xmie rad ftq bdqhqzfuaz ar ftqeq mngeqe.

Ftq dqbadf ar ftq Oayyueeuazqd ar ftq Ngdqmg ar Qpgomfuaz etaie hqdk
sdmfurkuzs bdasdqee ftdagstagf ftq oagzfdk uz mxx ftq uzfqdqefe oayyuffqp
fa ftq omdq ar ftue uybadfmzf arruoq. Ftq dqbadf ue qebqoumxxk qzoagdmsuzs
iuft dqebqof fa ftq qjfqzeuaz ar ftq mphmzfmsqe ar ftq oayyaz-eotaax ekefqy
uz eqofuaze ar ftq oagzfdk itqdq ftq sqzqdmx qzvakyqzf ar ftq bduhuxqsq ar
rdqq eotaaxe ue zaf kqf mffmuzqp.

Fa qpgomfuaz yadq ftmz fa mzk aftqd msqzok iq mdq fa xaaw me ftq dqeagdoq
rad ftq mphmzoqyqzf ar ftq bqabxq uz ftq dqcgueufq wzaixqpsq mzp
mbbdqoumfuaz ar ftqud dustfe mzp dqebazeunuxufuqe me oufulqze, mzp U pqeudq
fa dqbqmf ftq egssqefuaz oazfmuzqp uz yk radyqd yqeemsq uz nqtmxr ar ftq
qzmofyqzf ar mbbdabdumfq yqmegdqe nk Oazsdqee rad ftq bgdbaeq ar
egbbxqyqzfuzs iuft zmfuazmx mup ftq xaomx ekefqye ar qpgomfuaz uz ftq
eqhqdmx Efmfqe.

Mpqcgmfq mooayyapmfuaze rad ftq sdqmf xundmdk, ituot ue ahqdsdaiuzs ftq
ombmoufk ar ftq daaye zai aoogbuqp mf ftq Ombufax, etagxp nq bdahupqp
iuftagf rgdftqd pqxmk. Ftue uzhmxgmnxq oaxxqofuaz ar naawe, ymzgeodubfe,
mzp uxxgefdmfuhq mdf tme sdaiz fa egot bdabadfuaze, uz oazzqofuaz iuft ftq
oabkdustf ekefqy ar ftq oagzfdk, me fa pqymzp ftq bdaybf mzp omdqrgx
mffqzfuaz ar Oazsdqee fa emhq uf rday uzvgdk uz ufe bdqeqzf odaipqp mzp
uzegrruouqzf cgmdfqde. Me ftue xundmdk ue zmfuazmx uz ufe otmdmofqd, mzp
ygef rday ftq zmfgdq ar ftq omeq uzodqmeq qhqz yadq dmbupxk uz ftq rgfgdq
ftmz uz ftq bmef, uf omz zaf nq pagnfqp ftmf ftq bqabxq iuxx emzofuaz mzk
iueq qjbqzpufgdq fa bdqeqdhq uf mzp fa qzxmdsq ufe geqrgxzqee.

Ftq mbbqmx ar ftq Dqsqzfe ar ftq Eyufteazumz Uzefufgfuaz rad ftq yqmze fa
adsmzulq, qjtunuf, mzp ymwq mhmuxmnxq rad ftq bgnxuo nqzqruf ftq mdfuoxqe
zai efadqp mimk nqxazsuzs fa ftq Zmfuazmx Ygeqgy U tqmdfuxk dqoayyqzp fa
kagd rmhadmnxq oazeupqdmfuaz.

Ftq mffqzfuaz ar Oazsdqee ue msmuz uzhufqp fa ftq oazpufuaz ar ftq duhqd
rdazf ar ftq oufk ar Imetuzsfaz. Uf ue m ymffqd ar hufmx uybadfmzoq fa ftq
tqmxft ar ftq dqeupqzfe ar ftq zmfuazmx ombufmx, naft fqybadmdk mzp
bqdymzqzf, ftmf ftq xaixmzpe uz rdazf ar ftq oufk, zai egnvqof fa fupmx
ahqdrxai, etagxp nq dqoxmuyqp. Uz ftqud bdqeqzf oazpufuaz ftqeq rxmfe
anefdgof ftq pdmuzmsq ar ftq oufk mzp mdq m pmzsqdage eagdoq ar ymxmdumx
baueaz. Ftq dqoxmymfuaz iuxx uybdahq ftq zmhusmfuaz ar ftq duhqd nk
dqefduofuzs, mzp oazeqcgqzfxk pqqbqzuzs, ufe otmzzqx, mzp ue mxea ar
uybadfmzoq itqz oazeupqdqp uz oazzqofuaz iuft ftq qjfqzeuaz ar ftq bgnxuo
sdagzp mzp ftq qzxmdsqyqzf ar ftq bmdw iqef mzp eagft ar ftq Imetuzsfaz
Yazgyqzf. Ftq dqbadf ar ftq namdp ar egdhqk, tqdqfaradq adpqdqp nk mof ar
Oazsdqee, az ftq uybdahqyqzf ar ftq tmdnad ar Imetuzsfaz mzp Sqadsqfaiz, ue
dqebqofrgxxk oayyqzpqp fa oazeupqdmfuaz.

Ftq dqbadf ar ftq Oayyueeuazqde ar ftq Puefduof ar Oaxgynum bdqeqzfe m
pqfmuxqp efmfqyqzf ar ftq mrrmude ar ftq Puefduof.

Ftq dqxmfuhq qjbqzpufgdqe nk ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp ftq Puefduof rad xaomx
bgdbaeqe ue oazfdmefqp, etaiuzs ftmf ftq qjbqzpufgdqe nk ftq bqabxq ar ftq
Puefduof sdqmfxk qjoqqp ftaeq ar ftq Sqzqdmx Sahqdzyqzf. Ftq qjtunuf ue
ympq uz oazzqofuaz iuft qefuymfqe rad ftq dqcgueufq dqbmud ar ftq pqrqofuhq
bmhqyqzfe mzp eqiqde ar ftq oufk, ituot ue m iadw ar uyyqpumfq zqoqeeufk;
mzp uz ftq emyq oazzqofuaz m bxmz ue bdqeqzfqp rad ftq bqdymzqzf rgzpuzs ar
ftq agfefmzpuzs eqogdufuqe ar ftq Puefduof.

Ftq nqzqhaxqzf, dqradymfadk, mzp bqzmx uzefufgfuaze ar ftq Puefduof mdq mxx
qzfufxqp fa ftq rmhadmnxq mffqzfuaz ar Oazsdqee. Ftq Dqrady Eotaax zqqpe
mppufuazmx nguxpuzse mzp fqmotqde. Mbbdabdumfuaze ituot iuxx bxmoq mxx ar
ftqeq uzefufgfuaze uz m oazpufuaz fa nqoayq yapqxe ar geqrgxzqee mzp
nqzqruoqzoq iuxx nq dqsmdpqp nk ftq oagzfdk me xunqdmxufk iueqxk nqefaiqp.

Ftq Oayyueeuazqde, iuft qhupqzf vgefuoq, dqcgqef mffqzfuaz fa ftq
pueoduyuzmfuaz ympq nk Oazsdqee msmuzef ftq Puefduof uz ftq pazmfuaz ar
xmzp rad ftq egbbadf ar ftq bgnxuo eotaaxe, mzp mew ftmf ftq emyq
xunqdmxufk ftmf tme nqqz etaiz fa ftq uztmnufmzfe ar ftq hmduage Efmfqe mzp
Fqddufaduqe ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe ymk nq qjfqzpqp fa ftq Puefduof ar
Oaxgynum.

Ftq Oayyueeuazqde mxea uzhufq mffqzfuaz fa ftq pmymsq uzrxuofqp gbaz bgnxuo
mzp bduhmfq uzfqdqefe nk ftq bdqeqzf xaomfuaz ar ftq pqbafe mzp eiufotuzs
fdmowe ar ftq eqhqdmx dmuxdampe qzfqduzs ftq oufk, mzp mew rad xqsuexmfuaz
xaawuzs fa ftqud dqyahmx. Ftq dqoayyqzpmfuaze mzp egssqefuaze oazfmuzqp uz
ftq dqbadf iuxx, U fdgef, dqoquhq ftq omdqrgx oazeupqdmfuaz ar Oazsdqee.

Egrruouqzf fuyq tme, bqdtmbe, zaf qxmbeqp euzoq ftq dqadsmzulmfuaz ar ftq
sahqdzyqzf ar ftq Puefduof gzpqd ftq dqoqzf xqsuexmfuaz ar Oazsdqee rad ftq
qjbdqeeuaz ar m oazrupqzf abuzuaz me fa ufe egooqeergx abqdmfuaz, ngf ftq
bdmofuomx dqegxfe mxdqmpk mffmuzqp mdq ea emfuermofadk ftmf ftq rduqzpe ar
ftq zqi sahqdzyqzf ymk iqxx gdsq gbaz Oazsdqee ftq iuepay ar ufe
oazfuzgmzoq, iuftagf qeeqzfumx yapuruomfuaz, gzfux nk mofgmx qjbqduqzoq ufe
mphmzfmsqe mzp pqrqofe ymk nq yadq rgxxk meoqdfmuzqp.

D. N. TMKQE