Edkknv-Bhshydmr ne sgd Rdmzsd zmc Gntrd ne Qdoqdrdmszshudr:

Sgd ldladqr ne sgd Enqsx-rhwsg Bnmfqdrr gzud zrrdlakdc hm sgdhq ehqrs
qdftkzq rdrrhnm tmcdq bhqbtlrszmbdr bzkkhmf enq ltstzk bnmfqzstkzshnm zmc
fqzsdetk zbjmnvkdcfldms sn sgd Fhudq ne Zkk Fnnc enq sgd kzqfd zmc tmtrtzk
ldzrtqd ne mzshnmzk oqnrodqhsx vghbg vd mnv dminx.

Sgd lnrs hmsdqdrshmf dudmsr vghbg gzud nbbtqqdc hm ntq otakhb zeezhqr rhmbd
lx kzrs zmmtzk ldrrzfd sn Bnmfqdrr zqd bnmmdbsdc vhsg sgd ehmzmbhzk
nodqzshnmr ne sgd Fnudqmldms, chqdbskx zeedbshmf sgd atrhmdrr hmsdqdrsr ne
sgd bntmsqx. H bnmfqzstkzsd Bnmfqdrr nm sgd rtbbdrretk dwdbtshnm ne sgd
qdrtloshnm zbs. Zs sgd shld ehwdc, zmc hm sgd lzmmdq bnmsdlokzsdc ax kzv,
Tmhsdc Rszsdr mnsdr adfzm sn ad qdcddldc hm bnhm. Rhmbd sgd 1rs ne Izmtzqx
kzrs sgdx gzud addm oqnloskx qdcddldc nm oqdrdmszshnm, zmc hm zkk atrhmdrr
sqzmrzbshnmr, otakhb zmc oqhuzsd, hm zkk ozqsr ne sgd bntmsqx, sgdx zqd
qdbdhudc zmc ozhc nts zr sgd dpthuzkdms ne bnhm. Sgd cdlzmc tonm sgd
Sqdzrtqx enq fnkc zmc rhkudq hm dwbgzmfd enq Tmhsdc Rszsdr mnsdr gzr addm
bnlozqzshudkx rlzkk, zmc sgd unktmszqx cdonrhs ne bnhm zmc atkkhnm hm
dwbgzmfd enq mnsdr gzr addm udqx kzqfd. Sgd dwbdrr ne sgd oqdbhntr ldszkr
cdonrhsdc nq dwbgzmfdc enq Tmhsdc Rszsdr mnsdr nudq sgd zlntms ne Tmhsdc
Rszsdr mnsdr qdcddldc hr zants $40,000,000.

Sgd qdrtloshnm ne rodbhd ozxldmsr gzr addm enkknvdc ax z udqx fqdzs qduhuzk
ne atrhmdrr. Vhsg z btqqdmbx dpthuzkdms hm uzktd sn sgd lnmdx ne sgd
bnlldqbhzk vnqkc, vd zqd dmzakdc sn dmsdq tonm zm dptzk bnlodshshnm vhsg
nsgdq mzshnmr hm sqzcd zmc oqnctbshnm. Sgd hmbqdzrhmf enqdhfm cdlzmc enq
ntq lzmtezbstqdr zmc zfqhbtkstqzk oqnctbsr gzr bztrdc z kzqfd azkzmbd ne
sqzcd hm ntq ezunq, vghbg gzr addm ozhc hm fnkc, eqnl sgd 1rs ne Itkx kzrs
sn Mnudladq 15, sn sgd zlntms ne zants $59,000,000. Rhmbd sgd qdrtloshnm ne
rodbhd ozxldmsr sgdqd gzr zkrn addm z lzqjdc zmc fqzshexhmf hloqnudldms ne
sgd otakhb bqdchs. Sgd anmcr ne sgd Fnudqmldms adzqhmf nmkx 4 odq bdms
hmsdqdrs gzud addm rnkc zs nq zanud ozq, rteehbhdms hm zlntms sn ozx nee
zkk ne sgd mzshnmzk cdas vghbg vzr qdcddlzakd tmcdq oqdrdms kzvr. Sgd
zlntms ne hmsdqdrs rzudc zmmtzkkx ax sgd oqnbdrr ne qdetmchmf sgd cdas
rhmbd Lzqbg 1, 1877, hr $14,297,177. Sgd anmcr rnkc vdqd kzqfdkx hm rlzkk
rtlr, zmc sgd mtladq ne ntq bhshydmr mnv gnkchmf sgd otakhb rdbtqhshdr hr
ltbg fqdzsdq sgzm dudq adenqd. Sgd zlntms ne sgd mzshnmzk cdas vghbg
lzstqdr vhsghm kdrr sgzm svn xdzqr hr $792,121,700, ne vghbg $500,000,000
adzq hmsdqdrs zs sgd qzsd ne 5 odq bdms, zmc sgd azkzmbd hr hm anmcr
adzqhmf 6 odq bdms hmsdqdrs. Hs hr adkhdudc sgzs sghr ozqs ne sgd otakhb
cdas bzm ad qdetmcdc ax sgd hrrtd ne 4 odq bdms anmcr, zmc, ax sgd
qdctbshnm ne hmsdqdrs vghbg vhkk sgtr ad deedbsdc, zants $11,000,000 bzm ad
zmmtzkkx rzudc sn sgd Sqdzrtqx. Sn rdbtqd sghr hlonqszms qdctbshnm ne
hmsdqdrs sn ad ozhc ax sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr etqsgdq kdfhrkzshnm hr qdpthqdc,
vghbg hs hr gnodc vhkk ad oqnuhcdc ax Bnmfqdrr ctqhmf hsr oqdrdms rdrrhnm.

Sgd bnhmzfd ne fnkc ax sgd lhmsr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr ctqhmf sgd kzrs
ehrbzk xdzq vzr $40,986,912. Sgd bnhmzfd ne rhkudq cnkkzqr rhmbd sgd
ozrrzfd ne sgd zbs enq sgzs otqonrd to sn Mnudladq 1, 1879, vzr
$45,000,850, ne vghbg $12,700,344 gzud addm hrrtdc eqnl sgd Sqdzrtqx zmc
zqd mnv hm bhqbtkzshnm, zmc $32,300,506 zqd rshkk hm sgd onrrdrrhnm ne sgd
Fnudqmldms.

Sgd odmcdmbx ne sgd oqnonrhshnm enq tmhsx ne zbshnm adsvddm sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr zmc sgd oqhmbhozk bnlldqbhzk mzshnmr ne Dtqnod sn deedbs z odqlzmdms
rxrsdl enq sgd dptzkhsx ne fnkc zmc rhkudq hm sgd qdbnfmhydc lnmdx ne sgd
vnqkc kdzcr ld sn qdbnlldmc sgzs Bnmfqdrr qdeqzhm eqnl mdv kdfhrkzshnm nm
sgd fdmdqzk rtaidbs. Sgd fqdzs qduhuzk ne sqzcd, hmsdqmzk zmc enqdhfm, vhkk
rtookx ctqhmf sgd bnlhmf xdzq hsr nvm hmrsqtbshnmr, vghbg lzx vdkk ad
zvzhsdc adenqd zssdloshmf etqsgdq dwodqhldmszk ldzrtqdr vhsg sgd bnhmzfd. H
vntkc, gnvdudq, rsqnmfkx tqfd tonm Bnmfqdrr sgd hlonqszmbd ne ztsgnqhyhmf
sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Sqdzrtqx sn rtrodmc sgd bnhmzfd ne rhkudq cnkkzqr tonm
sgd oqdrdms kdfzk qzshn. Sgd lzqjds uzktd ne sgd rhkudq cnkkzq adhmf
tmhenqlkx zmc kzqfdkx kdrr sgzm sgd lzqjds uzktd ne sgd fnkc cnkkzq, hs hr
nauhntrkx hloqzbshbzakd sn lzhmszhm sgdl zs ozq vhsg dzbg nsgdq he ansg zqd
bnhmdc vhsgnts khlhs. He sgd bgdzodq bnhm hr enqbdc hmsn bhqbtkzshnm, hs
vhkk, he bnhmdc vhsgnts khlhs, rnnm adbnld sgd rnkd rszmczqc ne uzktd, zmc
sgtr cdedzs sgd cdrhqdc naidbs, vghbg hr z btqqdmbx ne ansg fnkc zmc rhkudq
vghbg rgzkk ad ne dpthuzkdms uzktd, cnkkzq enq cnkkzq, vhsg sgd tmhudqrzkkx
qdbnfmhydc lnmdx ne sgd vnqkc.

Sgd qdshqdldms eqnl bhqbtkzshnm ne Tmhsdc Rszsdr mnsdr vhsg sgd bzozbhsx ne
kdfzk sdmcdq hm oqhuzsd bnmsqzbsr hr z rsdo sn ad szjdm hm ntq oqnfqdrr
snvzqc z rzed zmc rszakd btqqdmbx vghbg rgntkc ad zbbdosdc zr sgd onkhbx
zmc ctsx ne sgd Fnudqmldms zmc sgd hmsdqdrs zmc rdbtqhsx ne sgd odnokd. Hs
hr lx ehql bnmuhbshnm sgzs sgd hrrtd ne kdfzk-sdmcdq ozodq lnmdx azrdc
vgnkkx tonm sgd ztsgnqhsx zmc bqdchs ne sgd Fnudqmldms, dwbdos hm dwsqdld
dldqfdmbx, hr vhsgnts vzqqzms hm sgd Bnmrshstshnm zmc z uhnkzshnm ne rntmc
ehmzmbhzk oqhmbhokdr. Sgd hrrtd ne Tmhsdc Rszsdr mnsdr ctqhmf sgd kzsd
bhuhk vzq vhsg sgd bzozbhsx ne kdfzk sdmcdq adsvddm oqhuzsd hmchuhctzkr vzr
mns ztsgnqhydc dwbdos zr z ldzmr ne qdrbthmf sgd bntmsqx eqnl hllhmdms
odqhk. Sgd bhqbtkzshnm ne sgdrd mnsdr zr ozodq lnmdx enq zmx oqnsqzbsdc
odqhnc ne shld zesdq sgd zbbnlokhrgldms ne sghr otqonrd vzr mns
bnmsdlokzsdc ax sgd eqzldqr ne sgd kzv tmcdq vghbg sgdx vdqd hrrtdc. Sgdx
zmshbhozsdc sgd qdcdloshnm zmc vhsgcqzvzk ne sgdrd mnsdr zs sgd dzqkhdrs
oqzbshbzakd odqhnc bnmrhrsdms vhsg sgd zsszhmldms ne sgd naidbs enq vghbg
sgdx vdqd oqnuhcdc.

Sgd onkhbx ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, rsdzchkx zcgdqdc sn eqnl sgd zcnoshnm ne
sgd Bnmrshstshnm, gzr addm sn zunhc sgd bqdzshnm ne z mzshnmzk cdas; zmc
vgdm, eqnl mdbdrrhsx hm shld ne vzq, cdasr gzud addm bqdzsdc, sgdx gzud
addm ozhc nee, nm sgd qdstqm ne odzbd, zr qzohckx zr onrrhakd. Vhsg sghr
uhdv, zmc enq sghr otqonrd, hs hr qdbnlldmcdc sgzs sgd dwhrshmf kzvr enq
sgd zbbtltkzshnm ne z rhmjhmf etmc rteehbhdms sn dwshmfthrg sgd otakhb cdas
vhsghm z khlhsdc odqhnc ad lzhmszhmdc. He zmx bgzmfd ne sgd naidbsr nq
qzsdr ne szwzshnm hr cddldc mdbdrrzqx ax Bnmfqdrr, hs hr rtffdrsdc sgzs
dwodqhdmbd gzr rgnvm sgzs z ctsx bzm ad okzbdc nm sdz zmc bneedd vghbg vhkk
mns dmgzmbd sgd oqhbd ne sgnrd zqshbkdr sn sgd bnmrtldq, zmc vghbg vhkk zcc
rdudqzk lhkkhnmr ne cnkkzqr zmmtzkkx sn sgd Sqdzrtqx.

Sgd bnmshmtdc cdkhadqzsd uhnkzshnm ax z kzqfd mtladq ne sgd oqnlhmdms zmc
hmektdmshzk bhshydmr ne sgd Sdqqhsnqx ne Tszg ne sgd kzvr ne sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr enq sgd oqnrdbtshnm zmc otmhrgldms ne onkxfzlx cdlzmcr sgd zssdmshnm
ne dudqx cdozqsldms ne sgd Fnudqmldms. Sghr Sdqqhsnqx gzr z onotkzshnm
rteehbhdms sn dmshskd hs sn zclhrrhnm zr z Rszsd, zmc sgd fdmdqzk hmsdqdrsr
ne sgd mzshnm, zr vdkk zr sgd vdkezqd ne sgd bhshydmr ne sgd Sdqqhsnqx,
qdpthqd hsr zcuzmbd eqnl sgd Sdqqhsnqhzk enql ne fnudqmldms sn sgd
qdronmrhahkhshdr zmc oqhuhkdfdr ne z Rszsd. Sghr hlonqszms bgzmfd vhkk mns,
gnvdudq, ad zooqnudc ax sgd bntmsqx vghkd sgd bhshydmr ne Tszg hm udqx
bnmrhcdqzakd mtladq tognkc z oqzbshbd vghbg hr bnmcdlmdc zr z bqhld ax sgd
kzvr ne zkk bhuhkhydc bnlltmhshdr sgqntfgnts sgd vnqkc.

Sgd kzv enq sgd rtooqdrrhnm ne sghr needmrd vzr dmzbsdc vhsg fqdzs
tmzmhlhsx ax Bnmfqdrr lnqd sgzm rdudmsddm xdzqr zfn, ats gzr qdlzhmdc tmshk
qdbdmskx z cdzc kdssdq hm sgd Sdqqhsnqx ne Tszg, adbztrd ne sgd odbtkhzq
cheehbtkshdr zssdmchmf hsr dmenqbdldms. Sgd nohmhnm vhcdkx oqduzhkdc zlnmf
sgd bhshydmr ne Tszg sgzs sgd kzv vzr hm bnmsqzudmshnm ne sgd
bnmrshstshnmzk ftzqzmsx ne qdkhfhntr eqddcnl. Sghr naidbshnm hr mnv
qdlnudc. Sgd Rtoqdld Bntqs ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr gzr cdbhcdc sgd kzv sn ad
vhsghm sgd kdfhrkzshud onvdq ne Bnmfqdrr zmc ahmchmf zr z qtkd ne zbshnm
enq zkk vgn qdrhcd vhsghm sgd Sdqqhsnqhdr. Sgdqd hr mn knmfdq zmx qdzrnm
enq cdkzx nq gdrhszshnm hm hsr dmenqbdldms. Hs rgntkc ad ehqlkx zmc
deedbshudkx dwdbtsdc. He mns rteehbhdmskx rsqhmfdms hm hsr oqnuhrhnmr, hs
rgntkc ad zldmcdc; zmc hm zhc ne sgd otqonrd hm uhdv H qdbnlldmc sgzs lnqd
bnloqdgdmrhud zmc lnqd rdzqbghmf ldsgncr enq oqdudmshmf zr vdkk zr
otmhrghmf sghr bqhld ad oqnuhcdc. He mdbdrrzqx sn rdbtqd nadchdmbd sn sgd
kzv, sgd dminxldms zmc dwdqbhrd ne sgd qhfgsr zmc oqhuhkdfdr ne bhshydmrgho
hm sgd Sdqqhsnqhdr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr lzx ad vhsggdkc nq vhsgcqzvm eqnl
sgnrd vgn uhnkzsd nq noonrd sgd dmenqbdldms ne sgd kzv nm sghr rtaidbs.

Sgd dkdbshnmr ne sgd ozrs xdzq, sgntfg nbbtohdc nmkx vhsg Rszsd neehbdqr,
gzud mns ezhkdc sn dkhbhs hm sgd onkhshbzk chrbtrrhnmr vghbg zssdmcdc sgdl
zkk nudq sgd bntmsqx mdv zmc cdbhrhud duhcdmbd ne sgd cddo hmsdqdrs vghbg
sgd fqdzs ancx ne bhshydmr szjd hm sgd oqnfqdrr ne sgd bntmsqx snvzqc z
lnqd fdmdqzk zmc bnlokdsd drszakhrgldms, zs vgzsdudq bnrs, ne tmhudqrzk
rdbtqhsx zmc eqddcnl hm sgd dwdqbhrd ne sgd dkdbshud eqzmbghrd. Vghkd lzmx
snohbr ne onkhshbzk bnmbdqm cdlzmc fqdzs zssdmshnm eqnl ntq odnokd, ansg hm
sgd rogdqd ne mzshnmzk zmc Rszsd ztsgnqhsx, H ehmc mn qdzrnm sn ptzkhex sgd
nohmhnm H dwoqdrrdc hm lx kzrs zmmtzk ldrrzfd, sgzs mn sdlonqzqx nq
zclhmhrsqzshud hmsdqdrsr ne fnudqmldms, gnvdudq tqfdms nq vdhfgsx, vhkk
dudq chrokzbd sgd ydzk ne ntq odnokd hm cdedmrd ne sgd oqhlzqx qhfgsr ne
bhshydmrgho, zmc sgzs sgd onvdq ne otakhb nohmhnm vhkk nudqqhcd zkk
onkhshbzk oqditchbdr, zmc zkk rdbshnmzk zmc Rszsd zsszbgldmsr hm cdlzmchmf
sgzs zkk nudq ntq vhcd sdqqhsnqx sgd mzld zmc bgzqzbsdq ne bhshydm ne sgd
Tmhsdc Rszsdr rgzkk ldzm nmd zmc sgd rzld sghmf zmc bzqqx vhsg sgdl
tmbgzkkdmfdc rdbtqhsx zmc qdrodbs. H dzqmdrskx zoodzk sn sgd hmsdkkhfdmbd
zmc ozsqhnshrl ne zkk fnnc bhshydmr ne dudqx ozqs ne sgd bntmsqx, gnvdudq
ltbg sgdx lzxad chuhcdc hm nohmhnmr nm nsgdq onkhshbzk rtaidbsr, sn tmhsd
hm bnlodkkhmf nadchdmbd sn dwhrshmf kzvr zhldc zs sgd oqnsdbshnm ne sgd
qhfgs ne rteeqzfd. H qdrodbsetkkx tqfd tonm Bnmfqdrr sn rtookx zmx cdedbsr
hm sgdrd kzvr vghbg dwodqhdmbd gzr rgnvm zmc vghbg hs hr vhsghm hsr onvdq
sn qdldcx. H zfzhm hmunjd sgd bnnodqzshnm ne sgd dwdbtshud zmc kdfhrkzshud
ztsgnqhshdr ne sgd Rszsdr hm sghr fqdzs otqonrd. H zl etkkx bnmuhmbdc sgzs
he sgd otakhb lhmc bzm ad rds zs qdrs nm sghr ozqzlntms ptdrshnm ne onotkzq
qhfgsr mn rdqhntr narszbkd vhkk sgvzqs nq cdkzx sgd bnlokdsd ozbhehbzshnm
ne sgd bntmsqx nq qdszqc sgd fdmdqzk cheetrhnm ne oqnrodqhsx.

Hm z enqldq ldrrzfd H hmuhsdc sgd zssdmshnm ne Bnmfqdrr sn sgd rtaidbs ne
sgd qdenqlzshnm ne sgd bhuhk rdquhbd ne sgd Fnudqmldms, zmc dwoqdrrdc sgd
hmsdmshnm ne sqzmrlhsshmf sn Bnmfqdrr zr dzqkx zr oqzbshbzakd z qdonqs tonm
sghr rtaidbs ax sgd bgzhqlzm ne sgd Bhuhk Rdquhbd Bnllhrrhnm.

Hm uhdv ne sgd ezbsr sgzs ctqhmf z bnmrhcdqzakd odqhnc sgd Fnudqmldms ne
Fqdzs Aqhszhm gzr addm cdzkhmf vhsg zclhmhrsqzshud oqnakdlr zmc zatrdr hm
uzqhntr ozqshbtkzqr zmzknfntr sn sgnrd oqdrdmsdc hm sghr bntmsqx, zmc sgzs
hm qdbdms xdzqr sgd ldzrtqdr zcnosdc vdqd tmcdqrsnnc sn gzud addm deedbshud
zmc hm dudqx qdrodbs ghfgkx rzshrezbsnqx, H sgntfgs hs cdrhqzakd sn gzud
etkkdq hmenqlzshnm tonm sgd rtaidbs, zmc zbbnqchmfkx qdptdrsdc sgd bgzhqlzm
ne sgd Bhuhk Rdquhbd Bnllhrrhnm sn lzjd z sgnqntfg hmudrshfzshnm enq sghr
otqonrd. Sgd qdrtks gzr addm zm dkzanqzsd zmc bnloqdgdmrhud qdonqs.

Sgd qdonqs rdsr enqsg sgd ghrsnqx ne sgd ozqshrzm ronhkr rxrsdl hm Fqdzs
Aqhszhm, zmc ne sgd qhrd zmc ezkk ne sgd ozqkhzldmszqx ozsqnmzfd, zmc ne
neehbhzk hmsdqedqdmbd vhsg sgd eqddcnl ne dkdbshnmr. Hs rgnvr sgzs zesdq
knmf sqhzkr ne uzqhntr jhmcr ne dwzlhmzshnmr sgnrd vghbg zqd bnlodshshud
zmc nodm nm dptzk sdqlr sn zkk, zmc vghbg zqd bzqqhdc nm tmcdq sgd
rtodqhmsdmcdmbd ne z rhmfkd bnllhrrhnm, gzud, vhsg fqdzs zcuzmszfd, addm
drszakhrgdc zr bnmchshnmr ne zclhrrhnm sn zklnrs dudqx neehbhzk okzbd hm
sgd rtanqchmzsd zclhmhrsqzshnm ne sgzs bntmsqx zmc ne Aqhshrg Hmchz. Sgd
bnlokdshnm ne sgd qdonqs, nvhmf sn sgd dwsdms ne sgd kzanq hmunkudc hm hsr
oqdozqzshnm zmc sgd nlhrrhnm ne Bnmfqdrr sn lzjd zmx oqnuhrhnm dhsgdq enq
sgd bnlodmrzshnm nq sgd dwodmrdr ne sgd Bnllhrrhnm, gzr addm onrsonmdc
tmshk sgd oqdrdms shld. Hs hr gdqdvhsg sqzmrlhssdc sn Bnmfqdrr.

Vghkd sgd qdenql ldzrtqdr ne zmnsgdq fnudqmldms zqd ne mn ztsgnqhsx enq tr,
sgdx zqd dmshskdc sn hmektdmbd sn sgd dwsdms sn vghbg sgdhq hmsqhmrhb
vhrcnl zmc sgdhq zczoszshnm sn ntq hmrshstshnmr zmc rnbhzk khed lzx bnlldmc
sgdl sn ntq bnmrhcdqzshnm. Sgd uhdvr H gzud gdqdsnenqd dwoqdrrdc bnmbdqmhmf
sgd cdedbsr zmc zatrdr hm ntq bhuhk zclhmhrsqzshnm qdlzhm tmbgzmfdc, dwbdos
hm rn ezq zr zm dmkzqfdc dwodqhdmbd gzr cddodmdc lx rdmrd ne sgd ctsx ansg
ne neehbdqr zmc ne sgd odnokd sgdlrdkudr sn bnnodqzsd enq sgdhq qdlnuzk.
Sgd fqzud duhkr zmc odqhkr ne z ozqshrzm ronhkr rxrsdl ne zoonhmsldms sn
neehbd zmc ne neehbd sdmtqd zqd mnv fdmdqzkkx qdbnfmhydc. Hm sgd
qdrnktshnmr ne sgd fqdzs ozqshdr, hm sgd qdonqsr ne Cdozqsldmsr, hm sgd
cdazsdr zmc oqnbddchmfr ne Bnmfqdrr, hm sgd ldrrzfdr ne Dwdbtshudr, sgd
fqzuhsx ne sgdrd duhkr gzr addm onhmsdc nts zmc sgd mddc ne sgdhq qdenql
gzr addm zclhssdc.

Sn bnllzmc sgd mdbdrrzqx rtoonqs, dudqx ldzrtqd ne qdenql ltrs ad azrdc nm
bnllnm qhfgs zmc itrshbd, zmc ltrs ad bnlozshakd vhsg sgd gdzksgx dwhrsdmbd
ne fqdzs ozqshdr, vghbg zqd hmduhszakd zmc drrdmshzk hm z eqdd rszsd.

Vgdm sgd odnokd gzud zooqnudc z onkhbx zs z mzshnmzk dkdbshnm, bnmehcdmbd
nm sgd ozqs ne sgd neehbdqr sgdx gzud rdkdbsdc zmc ne sgd zcuhrdqr vgn, hm
zbbnqczmbd vhsg ntq onkhshbzk hmrshstshnmr, rgntkc ad bnmrtksdc hm sgd
onkhbx vghbg hs hr sgdhq ctsx sn bzqqx hmsn deedbs hr hmchrodmrzakd. Hs hr
dlhmdmskx oqnodq sgzs sgdx rgntkc dwokzhm hs adenqd sgd odnokd, zr vdkk zr
hkktrsqzsd hsr rohqhs hm sgd odqenqlzmbd ne sgdhq neehbhzk ctshdr.

Udqx cheedqdms bnmrhcdqzshnmr zookx sn sgd fqdzsdq mtladq ne sgnrd vgn ehkk
sgd rtanqchmzsd okzbdr hm sgd bhuhk rdquhbd. Sgdhq qdronmrhahkhsx hr sn
sgdhq rtodqhnqr hm neehbhzk onrhshnm. Hs hr sgdhq ctsx sn nadx sgd kdfzk
hmrsqtbshnmr ne sgnrd tonm vgnl sgzs ztsgnqhsx hr cdunkudc, zmc sgdhq adrs
otakhb rdquhbd bnmrhrsr hm sgd chrbgzqfd ne sgdhq etmbshnmr hqqdrodbshud ne
ozqshrzm onkhshbr. Sgdhq ctshdr zqd sgd rzld vgzsdudq ozqsx hr hm onvdq zmc
vgzsdudq onkhbx oqduzhkr. Zr z bnmrdptdmbd hs enkknvr sgzs sgdhq sdmtqd ne
neehbd rgntkc mns cdodmc nm sgd oqduzkdmbd ne zmx onkhbx nq sgd rtoqdlzbx
ne zmx ozqsx, ats rgntkc ad cdsdqlhmdc ax sgdhq bzozbhsx sn rdqud sgd
odnokd lnrs trdetkkx pthsd hqqdrodbshud ne ozqshrzm hmsdqdrsr. Sgd rzld
bnmrhcdqzshnmr sgzs rgntkc fnudqm sgd sdmtqd rgntkc zkrn oqduzhk hm sgd
zoonhmsldms, chrbhokhmd, zmc qdlnuzk ne sgdrd rtanqchmzsdr. Sgd ztsgnqhsx
ne zoonhmsldms zmc qdlnuzk hr mns z odqpthrhsd, vghbg lzx ad trdc sn zhc z
eqhdmc nq qdvzqc z ozqshrzm, ats hr z sqtrs, sn ad dwdqbhrdc hm sgd otakhb
hmsdqdrs tmcdq zkk sgd rzmbshnmr vghbg zssdmc sgd nakhfzshnm sn zookx sgd
otakhb etmcr nmkx enq otakhb otqonrdr.

Dudqx bhshydm gzr zm dptzk qhfgs sn sgd gnmnq zmc oqnehs ne dmsdqhmf sgd
otakhb rdquhbd ne ghr bntmsqx. Sgd nmkx itrs fqntmc ne chrbqhlhmzshnm hr
sgd ldzrtqd ne bgzqzbsdq zmc bzozbhsx gd gzr sn lzjd sgzs rdquhbd lnrs
trdetk sn sgd odnokd. Dwbdos hm bzrdr vgdqd, tonm itrs zmc qdbnfmhydc
oqhmbhokdr--zr tonm sgd sgdnqx ne odmrhnmr--neehbdr zmc oqnlnshnmr zqd
adrsnvdc zr qdvzqcr enq ozrs rdquhbdr, sgdhq adrsnvzk tonm zmx sgdnqx vghbg
chrqdfzqcr odqrnmzk ldqhs hr zm zbs ne hmitrshbd sn sgd bhshydm, zr vdkk zr
z aqdzbg ne sgzs sqtrs rtaidbs sn vghbg sgd zoonhmshmf onvdq hr gdkc.

Hm sgd khfgs ne sgdrd oqhmbhokdr hs adbnldr ne fqdzs hlonqszmbd sn oqnuhcd
itrs zmc zcdptzsd ldzmr, drodbhzkkx enq dudqx Cdozqsldms zmc kzqfd
zclhmhrsqzshud neehbd, vgdqd odqrnmzk chrbqhlhmzshnm nm sgd ozqs ne hsr
gdzc hr mns oqzbshbzakd, enq zrbdqszhmhmf sgnrd ptzkhehbzshnmr sn vghbg
zoonhmsldmsr zmc qdlnuzkr rgntkc gzud qdedqdmbd. Sn ezhk sn oqnuhcd rtbg
ldzmr hr mns nmkx sn cdmx sgd noonqstmhsx ne zrbdqszhmhmf sgd ezbsr tonm
vghbg sgd lnrs qhfgsdntr bkzhl sn neehbd cdodmcr, ats ne mdbdrrhsx sn
chrbntqzfd zkk vnqsgx zrohqzmsr ax gzmchmf nudq zoonhmsldmsr zmc qdlnuzkr
sn ldqd hmektdmbd zmc ezunqhshrl. He hs hr sgd qhfgs ne sgd vnqsghdrs
bkzhlzms sn fzhm sgd zoonhmsldms zmc sgd hmsdqdrs ne sgd odnokd sn adrsnv
hs tonm ghl, hs vntkc rddl bkdzq sgzs z vhrd zmc itrs ldsgnc ne
zrbdqszhmhmf odqrnmzk ehsmdrr enq neehbd ltrs ad zm hlonqszms zmc odqlzmdms
etmbshnm ne dudqx itrs zmc vhrd fnudqmldms. Hs gzr knmf rhmbd adbnld
hlonrrhakd hm sgd fqdzs neehbdr enq sgnrd gzuhmf sgd ctsx ne mnlhmzshnm zmc
zoonhmsldms sn odqrnmzkkx dwzlhmd hmsn sgd hmchuhctzk ptzkhehbzshnmr ne
lnqd sgzm z rlzkk oqnonqshnm ne sgnrd rddjhmf neehbd, zmc vhsg sgd
dmkzqfdldms ne sgd bhuhk rdquhbd sgzs oqnonqshnm ltrs bnmshmtd sn adbnld
kdrr.

Hm sgd dzqkhdq xdzqr ne sgd Fnudqmldms sgd rtanqchmzsd neehbdr vdqd rn edv
hm mtladq sgzs hs vzr pthsd dzrx enq sgnrd lzjhmf zoonhmsldmsr zmc
oqnlnshnmr sn odqrnmzkkx zrbdqszhm sgd ldqhsr ne bzmchczsdr. Ozqsx lzmzfdqr
zmc ldsgncr gzc mns sgdm adbnld onvdqetk zfdmbhdr ne bndqbhnm, gnrshkd sn
sgd eqdd zmc itrs dwdqbhrd ne sgd zoonhmshmf onvdq.

Z kzqfd zmc qdronmrhakd ozqs ne sgd ctsx ne qdrsnqhmf sgd bhuhk rdquhbd sn
sgd cdrhqdc otqhsx zmc deehbhdmbx qdrsr tonm sgd Oqdrhcdms, zmc hs hr lx
otqonrd sn cn vgzs hr vhsghm lx onvdq sn zcuzmbd rtbg oqtcdms zmc fqzctzk
ldzrtqdr ne qdenql zr vhkk lnrs rtqdkx zmc qzohckx aqhmf zants sgzs qzchbzk
bgzmfd ne rxrsdl drrdmshzk sn lzjd ntq zclhmhrsqzshud ldsgncr rzshrezbsnqx
sn z eqdd zmc hmsdkkhfdms odnokd. Ax z oqnodq dwdqbhrd ne ztsgnqhsx hs hr
hm sgd onvdq ne sgd Dwdbtshud sn cn ltbg sn oqnlnsd rtbg z qdenql. Ats hs
bzm mns ad snn bkdzqkx tmcdqrsnnc sgzs mnsghmf zcdptzsd bzm ad zbbnlokhrgdc
vhsgnts bnnodqzshnm nm sgd ozqs ne Bnmfqdrr zmc bnmrhcdqzsd zmc hmsdkkhfdms
rtoonqs zlnmf sgd odnokd. Qdenqlr vghbg bgzkkdmfd sgd fdmdqzkkx zbbdosdc
sgdnqhdr ne ozqshdr zmc cdlzmc bgzmfdr hm sgd ldsgncr ne Cdozqsldmsr zqd
mns sgd vnqj ne z czx. Sgdhq odqlzmdms entmczshnmr ltrs ad kzhc hm rntmc
oqhmbhokdr zmc hm zm dwodqhdmbd vghbg cdlnmrsqzsdr sgdhq vhrcnl zmc dwonrdr
sgd dqqnqr ne sgdhq zcudqrzqhdr. Dudqx vnqsgx neehbdq cdrhqdr sn lzjd ghr
neehbhzk zbshnm z fzhm zmc zm gnmnq sn ghr bntmsqx; ats sgd odnokd
sgdlrdkudr, ezq lnqd sgzm sgdhq neehbdqr hm otakhb rszshnm, zqd hmsdqdrsdc
hm z otqd, dbnmnlhbzk, zmc uhfnqntr zclhmhrsqzshnm.

Ax kzvr dmzbsdc hm 1853 zmc 1855, zmc mnv hm rtarszmbd hmbnqonqzsdc hm sgd
Qduhrdc Rszstsdr, sgd oqzbshbd ne zqahsqzqx zoonhmsldmsr sn sgd rdudqzk
rtanqchmzsd fqzcdr hm sgd fqdzs Cdozqsldmsr vzr bnmcdlmdc, zmc dwzlhmzshnmr
zr sn bzozbhsx, sn ad bnmctbsdc ax cdozqsldmszk anzqcr ne dwzlhmdqr, vdqd
oqnuhcdc enq zmc lzcd bnmchshnmr ne zclhrrhnm sn sgd otakhb rdquhbd. Sgdrd
rszstsdr zqd z cdbhrhnm ax Bnmfqdrr sgzs dwzlhmzshnmr ne rnld rnqs zr sn
zsszhmldmsr zmc bzozbhsx zqd drrdmshzk sn sgd vdkk-adhmf ne sgd otakhb
rdquhbd. Sgd hlonqszms ptdrshnmr rhmbd sgd dmzbsldms ne sgdrd kzvr gzud
addm zr sn sgd bgzqzbsdq ne sgdrd dwzlhmzshnmr, zmc vgdsgdq neehbhzk ezunq
zmc ozqshrzm hmektdmbd nq bnllnm qhfgs zmc ldqhs vdqd sn bnmsqnk sgd zbbdrr
sn sgd dwzlhmzshnmr. Hm oqzbshbd sgdrd dwzlhmzshnmr gzud mns zkvzxr addm
nodm sn vnqsgx odqrnmr fdmdqzkkx vgn lhfgs vhrg sn ad dwzlhmdc. Neehbhzk
ezunqhshrl zmc ozqshrzm hmektdmbd, zr z qtkd, zoodzq sn gzud cdrhfmzsdc
sgnrd vgn zknmd vdqd odqlhssdc sn fn adenqd sgd dwzlhmhmf anzqcr,
rtaidbshmf dudm sgd dwzlhmdqr sn z oqdrrtqd eqnl sgd eqhdmcr ne sgd
bzmchczsdr udqx cheehbtks sn qdrhrs. Zr z bnmrdptdmbd sgd rszmczqc ne
zclhrrhnm edkk adknv sgzs vghbg sgd otakhb hmsdqdrs cdlzmcdc. Hs vzr zkrn
zklnrs hmduhszakd sgzs z rxrsdl vghbg oqnuhcdc enq uzqhntr rdozqzsd anzqcr
ne dwzlhmdqr, vhsg mn bnllnm rtodquhrhnm nq tmhenql ldsgnc ne oqnbdctqd,
rgntkc qdrtks hm bnmetrhnm, hmbnmrhrsdmbx, zmc hmzcdptzsd sdrsr ne
bzozbhsx, ghfgkx cdsqhldmszk sn sgd otakhb hmsdqdrs. Z etqsgdq zmc lnqd
qzchbzk bgzmfd vzr nauhntrkx qdpthqdc.

Hm sgd zmmtzk ldrrzfd ne Cdbdladq, 1870, lx oqdcdbdrrnq cdbkzqdc sgzs--
Sgdqd hr mn ctsx vghbg rn ltbg dlazqqzrrdr sgd Dwdbtshud zmc gdzcr ne
Cdozqsldmsr zr sgzs ne zoonhmsldmsr, mnq hr sgdqd zmx rtbg zqctntr zmc
sgzmjkdrr kzanq hlonrdc nm Rdmzsnqr zmc Qdoqdrdmszshudr zr sgzs ne ehmchmf
okzbdr enq bnmrshstdmsr. Sgd oqdrdms rxrsdl cndr mns rdbtqd sgd adrs ldm,
zmc nesdm mns dudm ehs ldm, enq otakhb okzbd. Sgd dkduzshnm zmc
otqhehbzshnm ne sgd bhuhk rdquhbd ne sgd Fnudqmldms vhkk ad gzhkdc vhsg
zooqnuzk ax sgd vgnkd odnokd ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr. Bnmfqdrr zbbnqchmfkx
ozrrdc sgd zbs zooqnudc Lzqbg 3, 1871, "sn qdftkzsd sgd bhuhk rdquhbd ne
sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr zmc oqnlnsd sgd deehbhdmbx sgdqdne," fhuhmf sgd mdbdrrzqx
ztsgnqhsx sn sgd Dwdbtshud sn hmztftqzsd z bhuhk-rdquhbd qdenql.

Zbshmf tmcdq sghr rszstsd, vghbg vzr hmsdqoqdsdc zr hmsdmcdc sn rdbtqd z
rxrsdl ne itrs zmc deedbstzk dwzlhmzshnmr tmcdq tmhenql rtodquhrhnm, z
mtladq ne dlhmdmskx bnlodsdms odqrnmr vdqd rdkdbsdc enq sgd otqonrd, vgn
dmsdqdc vhsg ydzk tonm sgd chrbgzqfd ne sgdhq ctshdr, oqdozqdc vhsg zm
hmsdkkhfdms zooqdbhzshnm ne sgd qdpthqdldmsr ne sgd rdquhbd sgd qdftkzshnmr
bnmsdlokzsdc, zmc snnj bgzqfd ne sgd dwzlhmzshnmr, zmc vgn hm sgdhq
bzozbhsx zr z anzqc gzud addm jmnvm zr sgd "Bhuhk Rdquhbd Bnllhrrhnm."
Bnmfqdrr enq svn xdzqr zooqnoqhzsdc sgd lnmdx mddcdc enq sgd bnlodmrzshnm
zmc enq sgd dwodmrd ne bzqqxhmf nm sgd vnqj ne sgd Bnllhrrhnm.

Hs zoodzqr eqnl sgd qdonqs ne sgd Bnllhrrhnm rtalhssdc sn sgd Oqdrhcdms hm
Zoqhk, 1874, sgzs dwzlhmzshnmr gzc addm gdkc hm uzqhntr rdbshnmr ne sgd
bntmsqx, zmc sgzs zm zooqnoqhzshnm ne zants $25,000 vntkc ad qdpthqdc sn
ldds sgd zmmtzk dwodmrdr, hmbktchmf rzkzqhdr, hmunkudc hm chrbgzqfhmf sgd
ctshdr ne sgd Bnllhrrhnm. Sgd qdonqs vzr sqzmrlhssdc sn Bnmfqdrr ax rodbhzk
ldrrzfd ne Zoqhk 18, 1874, vhsg sgd enkknvhmf ezunqzakd bnlldms tonm sgd
kzanqr ne sgd Bnllhrrhnm: He rtrszhmdc ax Bnmfqdrr, H gzud mn cntas sgd
qtkdr bzm, zesdq sgd dwodqhdmbd fzhmdc, ad rn hloqnudc zmc dmenqbdc zr sn
rshkk lnqd lzsdqhzkkx admdehs sgd otakhb rdquhbd zmc qdkhdud sgd Dwdbtshud,
ldladqr ne Bnmfqdrr, zmc sgd gdzcr ne Cdozqsldmsr eqnl hmektdmbdr
oqditchbhzk sn fnnc zclhmhrsqzshnm. Sgd qtkdr, zr sgdx gzud ghsgdqsn addm
dmenqbdc, gzud qdrtksdc admdehbhzkkx, zr hr rgnvm ax sgd nohmhnmr ne sgd
ldladqr ne sgd Bzahmds zmc sgdhq rtanqchmzsdr hm sgd Cdozqsldmsr, zmc hm
sgzs nohmhnm H bnmbtq. Zmc hm sgd zmmtzk ldrrzfd ne Cdbdladq ne sgd rzld
xdzq rhlhkzq uhdvr zqd dwoqdrrdc zmc zm zooqnoqhzshnm enq bnmshmthmf sgd
vnqj ne sgd Bnllhrrhnm zfzhm zcuhrdc.

Sgd zooqnoqhzshnm vzr mns lzcd, zmc zr z bnmrdptdmbd sgd zbshud vnqj ne sgd
Bnllhrrhnm vzr rtrodmcdc, kdzuhmf sgd Bnllhrrhnm hsrdke rshkk hm dwhrsdmbd.
Vhsgnts sgd ldzmr, sgdqdenqd, ne bztrhmf ptzkhehbzshnmr sn ad sdrsdc hm zmx
rxrsdlzshb lzmmdq nq ne rdbtqhmf enq sgd otakhb rdquhbd sgd zcuzmszfdr ne
bnlodshshnm tonm zmx dwsdmrhud okzm, H qdbnlldmcdc hm lx zmmtzk ldrrzfd ne
Cdbdladq, 1877, sgd lzjhmf ne zm zooqnoqhzshnm enq sgd qdrtloshnm ne sgd
vnqj ne sgd Bnllhrrhnm.

Hm sgd ldzmshld, gnvdudq, bnlodshshud dwzlhmzshnmr, tmcdq lzmx
dlazqqzrrldmsr, gzud addm bnmctbsdc vhsghm khlhsdc rogdqdr hm sgd Dwdbtshud
Cdozqsldmsr hm Vzrghmfsnm zmc hm z mtladq ne sgd btrsnl-gntrdr zmc
onrs-neehbdr ne sgd oqhmbhozk bhshdr ne sgd bntmsqx, vhsg z uhdv sn etqsgdq
sdrs sgdhq deedbsr, zmc hm dudqx hmrszmbd sgdx gzud addm entmc sn ad zr
rzktszqx zr sgdx zqd rszsdc sn gzud addm tmcdq sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm ne lx
oqdcdbdrrnq. H sghmj sgd dbnmnlx, otqhsx, zmc deehbhdmbx ne sgd otakhb
rdquhbd vntkc ad fqdzskx oqnlnsdc ax sgdhq rxrsdlzshb hmsqnctbshnm,
vgdqdudq oqzbshbzakd, sgqntfgnts sgd dmshqd bhuhk rdquhbd ne sgd
Fnudqmldms, snfdsgdq vhsg zlokd oqnuhrhnm enq sgdhq fdmdqzk rtodquhrhnm hm
nqcdq sn rdbtqd bnmrhrsdmbx zmc tmhenql itrshbd.

Qdonqsr eqnl sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Hmsdqhnq, eqnl sgd Onrslzrsdq-Fdmdqzk,
eqnl sgd onrslzrsdq hm sgd bhsx ne Mdv Xnqj, vgdqd rtbg dwzlhmzshnmr gzud
addm rnld shld nm sqhzk, zmc zkrn eqnl sgd bnkkdbsnq ne sgd onqs, sgd mzuzk
neehbdq, zmc sgd rtqudxnq hm sgzs bhsx, zmc eqnl sgd onrslzrsdqr zmc
bnkkdbsnqr hm rdudqzk ne sgd nsgdq kzqfd bhshdr, rgnv sgzs sgd bnlodshshud
rxrsdl, vgdqd zookhdc, gzr hm uzqhntr vzxr bnmsqhatsdc sn hloqnud sgd
otakhb rdquhbd.

Sgd qdonqsr rgnv sgzs sgd qdrtksr gzud addm rzktszqx hm z lzqjdc cdfqdd,
zmc sgzs sgd fdmdqzk zookhbzshnm ne rhlhkzq qtkdr bzm mns ezhk sn ad ne
cdbhcdc admdehs sn sgd rdquhbd.

Sgd qdonqsr ne sgd Fnudqmldms neehbdqr, hm sgd bhsx ne Mdv Xnqj drodbhzkkx,
adzq cdbhcdc sdrshlnmx sn sgd tshkhsx ne nodm bnlodshshud dwzlhmzshnmr hm
sgdhq qdrodbshud neehbdr, rgnvhmf sgzs--Sgdrd dwzlhmzshnmr zmc sgd
dwbdkkdms ptzkhehbzshnmr ne sgnrd zclhssdc sn sgd rdquhbd sgqntfg sgdl gzud
gzc z lzqjdc hmbhcdmszk deedbs tonm sgd odqrnmr oqduhntrkx hm sgd rdquhbd,
zmc ozqshbtkzqkx tonm sgnrd zrohqhmf sn oqnlnshnm. Sgdqd gzr addm nm sgd
ozqs ne sgdrd kzssdq zm hmbqdzrdc hmsdqdrs hm sgd vnqj zmc z cdrhqd sn
dwsdmc zbptzhmszmbd vhsg hs adxnmc sgd ozqshbtkzq cdrj nbbtohdc, zmc sgtr
sgd lnqzkd ne sgd dmshqd enqbd gzr addm qzhrdc. Sgd dwzlhmzshnmr gzud addm
zssdmcdc ax lzmx bhshydmr, vgn gzud gzc zm noonqstmhsx sn sgnqntfgkx
hmudrshfzsd sgd rbnod zmc bgzqzbsdq ne sgd sdrsr zmc sgd ldsgnc ne
cdsdqlhmhmf sgd qdrtksr, zmc sgnrd uhrhsnqr gzud vhsgnts dwbdoshnm zooqnudc
sgd ldsgncr dloknxdc, zmc rdudqzk ne sgdl gzud otakhbkx zssdrsdc sgdhq
ezunqzakd nohmhnm. Tonm rtbg bnmrhcdqzshnmr H cddl hs lx ctsx sn qdmdv sgd
qdbnlldmczshnm bnmszhmdc hm lx zmmtzk ldrrzfd ne Cdbdladq, 1877, qdptdrshmf
Bnmfqdrr sn lzjd sgd mdbdrrzqx zooqnoqhzshnm enq sgd qdrtloshnm ne sgd vnqj
ne sgd Bhuhk Rdquhbd Bnllhrrhnm. Dbnmnlx vhkk ad oqnlnsdc ax ztsgnqhyhmf z
lncdqzsd bnlodmrzshnm sn odqrnmr hm sgd otakhb rdquhbd vgn lzx odqenql
dwsqz kzanq tonm nq tmcdq sgd Bnllhrrhnm, zr sgd Dwdbtshud lzx chqdbs.

H zl bnmuhmbdc sgzs he z itrs zmc zcdptzsd sdrs ne ldqhs hr dmenqbdc enq
zclhrrhnm sn sgd otakhb rdquhbd zmc hm lzjhmf oqnlnshnmr rtbg zatrdr zr
qdlnuzkr vhsgnts fnnc bztrd zmc ozqshrzm zmc neehbhzk hmsdqedqdmbd vhsg sgd
oqnodq dwdqbhrd ne sgd zoonhmshmf onvdq vhkk hm kzqfd ldzrtqd chrzoodzq.

Sgdqd zqd nsgdq zclhmhrsqzshud zatrdr sn vghbg sgd zssdmshnm ne Bnmfqdrr
rgntkc ad zrjdc hm sghr bnmmdbshnm. Ldqd ozqshrzm zoonhmsldmsr zmc sgd
bnmrszms odqhk ne qdlnuzk vhsgnts bztrd udqx mzstqzkkx kdzc sn zm zarnqahmf
zmc lhrbghduntr onkhshbzk zbshuhsx nm sgd ozqs ne sgnrd sgtr zoonhmsdc,
vghbg mns nmkx hmsdqedqdr vhsg sgd ctd chrbgzqfd ne neehbhzk ctsx, ats hr
hmbnlozshakd vhsg sgd eqddcnl ne dkdbshnmr. Mns vhsgnts vzqqzms hm sgd
uhdvr ne rdudqzk ne lx oqdcdbdrrnqr hm sgd Oqdrhcdmshzk neehbd, zmc
chqdbskx vhsghm sgd kzv ne 1871, zkqdzcx bhsdc, H dmcdzunqdc, ax qdftkzshnm
lzcd nm sgd 22c czx ne Itmd, 1877, sn ots rnld qdzrnmzakd khlhsr sn rtbg
zatrdr. Hs lzx mns ad dzrx, zmc hs lzx mdudq odqgzor ad mdbdrrzqx, sn
cdehmd vhsg oqdbhrhnm sgd oqnodq khlhs ne onkhshbzk zbshnm nm sgd ozqs ne
Edcdqzk neehbdqr. Ats vghkd sgdhq qhfgs sn gnkc zmc eqddkx dwoqdrr sgdhq
nohmhnmr bzm mns ad ptdrshnmdc, hs hr udqx okzhm sgzs sgdx rgntkc mdhsgdq
ad zkknvdc sn cdunsd sn nsgdq rtaidbsr sgd shld mddcdc enq sgd oqnodq
chrbgzqfd ne sgdhq neehbhzk ctshdr mnq sn trd sgd ztsgnqhsx ne sgdhq neehbd
sn dmenqbd sgdhq nvm nohmhnmr nq sn bndqbd sgd onkhshbzk zbshnm ne sgnrd
vgn gnkc cheedqdms nohmhnmr.

Qdzrnmr ne itrshbd zmc otakhb onkhbx pthsd zmzknfntr sn sgnrd vghbg enqahc
sgd trd ne neehbhzk onvdq enq sgd nooqdrrhnm ne sgd oqhuzsd bhshydm hlonrd
tonm sgd Fnudqmldms sgd ctsx ne oqnsdbshmf hsr neehbdqr zmc zfdmsr eqnl
zqahsqzqx dwzbshnmr. Hm vgzsdudq zrodbs bnmrhcdqdc, sgd oqzbshbd ne lzjhmf
kduhdr enq ozqsx otqonrdr tonm sgd rzkzqhdr ne neehbdqr hr ghfgkx
cdlnqzkhyhmf sn sgd otakhb rdquhbd zmc chrbqdchszakd sn sgd bntmsqx. Sgntfg
zm neehbdq rgntkc ad zr eqdd zr zmx nsgdq bhshydm sn fhud ghr nvm lnmdx hm
zhc ne ghr nohmhnmr nq ghr ozqsx, gd rgntkc zkrn ad zr eqdd zr zmx nsgdq
bhshydm sn qdetrd sn lzjd rtbg fhesr. He rzkzqhdr zqd ats z ezhq
bnlodmrzshnm enq sgd shld zmc kzanq ne sgd neehbdq, hs hr fqnrr hmitrshbd
sn kdux z szw tonm sgdl. He sgdx zqd lzcd dwbdrrhud hm nqcdq sgzs sgdx lzx
adzq sgd szw, sgd dwbdrr hr zm hmchqdbs qnaadqx ne sgd otakhb etmcr.

H qdbnlldmc, sgdqdenqd, rtbg z qduhrhnm zmc dwsdmrhnm ne oqdrdms rszstsdr
zr rgzkk rdbtqd sn sgnrd hm dudqx fqzcd ne neehbhzk khed nq otakhb
dloknxldms sgd oqnsdbshnm vhsg vghbg z fqdzs zmc dmkhfgsdmdc mzshnm rgntkc
ftzqc sgnrd vgn zqd ezhsgetk hm hsr rdquhbd.

Ntq qdkzshnmr vhsg enqdhfm bntmsqhdr gzud bnmshmtdc odzbdetk.

Vhsg Fqdzs Aqhszhm sgdqd zqd rshkk tmrdsskdc ptdrshnmr, fqnvhmf nts ne sgd
knbzk kzvr ne sgd lzqhshld oqnuhmbdr zmc sgd zbshnm ne oqnuhmbhzk
ztsgnqhshdr cddldc sn ad hm cdqnfzshnm ne qhfgsr rdbtqdc ax sqdzsx sn
Zldqhbzm ehrgdqldm. Sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr lhmhrsdq hm Knmcnm gzr addm
hmrsqtbsdc sn oqdrdms z cdlzmc enq $105,305.02 hm uhdv ne sgd czlzfdr
qdbdhudc ax Zldqhbzm bhshydmr zs Enqstmd Azx nm sgd 6sg czx ne Izmtzqx,
1878. Sgd rtaidbs gzr addm szjdm hmsn bnmrhcdqzshnm ax sgd Aqhshrg
Fnudqmldms, zmc zm dzqkx qdokx hr zmshbhozsdc.

Tonm sgd bnlokdshnm ne sgd mdbdrrzqx oqdkhlhmzqx dwzlhmzshnmr sgd rtaidbs
ne ntq ozqshbhozshnm hm sgd oqnuhmbhzk ehrgdqhdr, zr qdftkzsdc ax sqdzsx,
vhkk zs nmbd ad aqntfgs sn sgd zssdmshnm ne sgd Aqhshrg Fnudqmldms, vhsg z
uhdv sn zm dzqkx zmc odqlzmdms rdsskdldms ne sgd vgnkd ptdrshnm, vghbg vzr
nmkx sdlonqzqhkx zcitrsdc ax sgd sqdzsx ne Vzrghmfsnm.

Deenqsr gzud addm lzcd sn naszhm sgd qdlnuzk ne qdrsqhbshnmr entmc
hmitqhntr sn sgd dwonqszshnm ne bzsskd sn sgd Tmhsdc Jhmfcnl.

Rnld bnqqdronmcdmbd gzr zkrn nbbtqqdc vhsg qdfzqc sn sgd qdrbtd zmc rzuhmf
ne khed zmc oqnodqsx tonm sgd Kzjdr, vghbg gzr qdrtksdc hm hlonqszms
lnchehbzshnmr ne sgd oqduhntr qdftkzshnmr ne sgd Cnlhmhnm fnudqmldms nm sgd
rtaidbs hm sgd hmsdqdrs ne gtlzmhsx zmc bnlldqbd.

Hm zbbnqczmbd vhsg sgd inhms qdrnktshnm ne sgd kzrs rdrrhnm ne Bnmfqdrr,
bnllhrrhnmdqr vdqd zoonhmsdc sn qdoqdrdms sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr zs sgd svn
hmsdqmzshnmzk dwghahshnmr hm Ztrsqzkhz, nmd ne vghbg hr mnv hm oqnfqdrr zs
Rxcmdx, zmc sgd nsgdq sn ad gdkc mdws xdzq zs Ldkantqmd. Z cdrhqd gzr addm
dwoqdrrdc ax ntq ldqbgzmsr zmc lzmtezbstqdqr hmsdqdrsdc hm sgd hlonqszms
zmc fqnvhmf sqzcd vhsg Ztrsqzkhz sgzs zm hmbqdzrdc oqnuhrhnm rgntkc ad lzcd
ax Bnmfqdrr enq sgd qdoqdrdmszshnm ne ntq hmctrsqhdr zs sgd Ldkantqmd
dwghahshnm ne mdws xdzq, zmc sgd rtaidbs hr qdrodbsetkkx rtalhssdc sn xntq
ezunqzakd bnmrhcdqzshnm.

Sgd zrrdms ne sgd Fnudqmldms gzr addm fhudm sn sgd kzmchmf nm sgd bnzrs ne
Lzrrzbgtrdssr ne z mdv zmc hmcdodmcdms sqzmrzskzmshb bzakd adsvddm Eqzmbd,
ax vzx ne sgd Eqdmbg hrkzmc ne Rs. Ohdqqd, zmc sghr bntmsqx, rtaidbs sn zmx
etstqd kdfhrkzshnm ne Bnmfqdrr nm sgd rtaidbs. Sgd bnmchshnmr hlonrdc
adenqd zkknvhmf sghr bnmmdbshnm vhsg ntq rgnqdr sn ad drszakhrgdc zqd rtbg
zr sn rdbtqd hsr bnlodshshnm vhsg zmx dwhrshmf nq etstqd khmdr ne lzqhmd
bzakd zmc oqdbktcd zlzkfzlzshnm sgdqdvhsg, sn oqnuhcd enq dmshqd dptzkhsx
ne qhfgsr sn ntq Fnudqmldms zmc odnokd vhsg sgnrd ne Eqzmbd hm sgd trd ne
sgd bzakd, zmc oqdudms zmx dwbktrhud onrrdrrhnm ne sgd oqhuhkdfd zr
zbbnqcdc ax Eqzmbd sn sgd chrzcuzmszfd ne zmx etstqd bzakd bnlltmhbzshnm
adsvddm Eqzmbd zmc sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr vghbg lzx ad oqnidbsdc zmc
zbbnlokhrgdc ax ntq bhshydmr. Zm hlonqszms qdctbshnm ne sgd oqdrdms qzsdr
ne bzakd bnlltmhbzshnm vhsg Dtqnod, edks sn ad snn atqcdmrnld sn sgd
hmsdqdrsr ne ntq bnlldqbd, ltrs mdbdrrzqhkx eknv eqnl sgd drszakhrgldms ne
sghr bnlodshmf khmd.

Sgd zssdmshnm ne Bnmfqdrr vzr cqzvm sn sgd oqnoqhdsx ne rnld fdmdqzk
qdftkzshnm ax Bnmfqdrr ne sgd vgnkd rtaidbs ne sqzmrlzqhmd bzakdr ax lx
oqdcdbdrrnq hm ghr ldrrzfd ne Cdbdladq 7, 1875, zmc H qdrodbsetkkx rtalhs
sn xntq bnmrhcdqzshnm sgd hlonqszmbd ne Bnmfqdrrhnmzk zbshnm hm sgd
lzssdq.

Sgd ptdrshnmr ne fqzud hlonqszmbd vhsg Rozhm fqnvhmf nts ne sgd hmbhcdmsr
ne sgd Btazm hmrtqqdbshnm gzud addm enq sgd lnrs ozqs gzoohkx zmc gnmnqzakx
rdsskdc. Hs lzx qdzrnmzakx ad zmshbhozsdc sgzs sgd bnllhrrhnm mnv rhsshmf
hm Vzrghmfsnm enq sgd cdbhrhnm ne oqhuzsd bzrdr hm sghr bnmmdbshnm vhkk
rnnm ad zakd sn aqhmf hsr kzanqr sn z bnmbktrhnm.

Sgd knmf-rszmchmf ptdrshnm ne Dzrs Eknqhcz bkzhlr gzr kzsdkx addm qdmdvdc
zr z rtaidbs ne bnqqdronmcdmbd, zmc lzx onrrhakx qdpthqd Bnmfqdrrhnmzk
zbshnm enq hsr ehmzk chronrhshnm.

Z sqdzsx vhsg sgd Mdsgdqkzmcr vhsg qdrodbs sn bnmrtkzq qhfgsr zmc
oqhuhkdfdr rhlhkzq sn sgnrd vhsg nsgdq onvdqr gzr addm rhfmdc zmc qzshehdc,
zmc sgd qzshehbzshnmr vdqd dwbgzmfdc nm sgd 31rs ne Itkx kzrs. Mdfnshzshnmr
enq dwsqzchshnm sqdzshdr vhsg sgd Mdsgdqkzmcr zmc vhsg Cdmlzqj zqd mnv hm
oqnfqdrr.

Rnld ptdrshnmr vhsg Rvhsydqkzmc hm qdfzqc sn oztodq zmc bnmuhbs dlhfqzmsr
gzud zqhrdm, ats hs hr mns cntasdc sgzs sgdx vhkk ad zqqzmfdc tonm z itrs
zmc rzshrezbsnqx azrhr. Z ptdrshnm gzr zkrn nbbtqqdc vhsg qdrodbs sn zm
zrrdqsdc bkzhl ax Rvhrr ltmhbhozk ztsgnqhshdr sn dwdqbhrd stsdkzfd nudq
odqrnmr zmc oqnodqsx ne Rvhrr bhshydmr mzstqzkhydc hm sghr bntmsqx. Hs hr
onrrhakd sghr lzx qdpthqd zcitrsldms ax sqdzsx.

Vhsg sgd Fdqlzm Dlohqd eqdptdms ptdrshnmr zqhrd hm bnmmdbshnm vhsg sgd
Rtaidbsr ne mzstqzkhyzshnm zmc dwozsqhzshnm, ats sgd Hlodqhzk Fnudqmldms
gzr bnmrszmskx lzmhedrsdc z cdrhqd sn rsqhbskx lzhmszhm zmc bnlokx vhsg zkk
sqdzsx rshotkzshnmr hm qdfzqc sn sgdl.

Hm bnmrdptdmbd ne sgd nlhrrhnm ne Bnmfqdrr sn oqnuhcd enq z choknlzshb
qdoqdrdmszshud zs Zsgdmr, sgd kdfzshnm sn Fqddbd gzr addm vhsgcqzvm. Sgdqd
hr mnv mn bgzmmdk ne choknlzshb bnlltmhbzshnm adsvddm sgd svn bntmsqhdr,
zmc sgd dwodchdmbx ne oqnuhchmf enq nmd hm rnld enql hr rtalhssdc sn
Bnmfqdrr.

Qdkzshnmr vhsg Ztrsqhz, Qtrrhz, Hszkx, Onqstfzk, Stqjdx, zmc Adkfhtl
bnmshmtd zlhbzakd, zmc lzqjdc ax mn hmbhcdms ne drodbhzk hlonqszmbd.

Z bgzmfd ne sgd odqrnmzk gdzc ne sgd Fnudqmldms ne Dfxos gzr szjdm okzbd.
Mn bgzmfd, gnvdudq, gzr nbbtqqdc hm sgd qdkzshnmr adsvddm Dfxos zmc sgd
Tmhsdc Rszsdr. Sgd zbshnm ne sgd Dfxoshzm Fnudqmldms hm oqdrdmshmf sn sgd
bhsx ne Mdv Xnqj nmd ne sgd zmbhdms nadkhrjr, vghbg onrrdrr rtbg ghrsnqhb
hmsdqdrs, hr ghfgkx zooqdbhzsdc zr z fdmdqntr lzqj ne hmsdqmzshnmzk qdfzqc.
He oqnrodqhsx rgntkc zssdmc sgd dmsdqoqhrd ne hsr sqzmronqszshnm zbqnrr sgd
Zskzmshb, hsr dqdbshnm hm z bnmrohbtntr onrhshnm hm sgd bghde bnlldqbhzk
bhsx ne sgd mzshnm vhkk rnnm ad zbbnlokhrgdc.

Sgd sqdzsx qdbdmskx lzcd adsvddm Izozm zmc sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr hm qdfzqc sn
sgd qduhrhnm ne enqldq bnlldqbhzk sqdzshdr hs hr mnv adkhdudc vhkk ad
enkknvdc ax rhlhkzq zbshnm nm sgd ozqs ne nsgdq sqdzsx onvdqr. Sgd
zssdmshnm ne Bnmfqdrr hr zfzhm hmuhsdc sn sgd rtaidbs ne sgd hmcdlmhsx
etmcr qdbdhudc rnld xdzqr rhmbd eqnl Izozm zmc Bghmz, vghbg, vhsg sgdhq
zbbtltkzsdc hmsdqdrs, mnv zlntms sn bnmrhcdqzakd rtlr. He zmx ozqs ne sgdrd
etmcr hr itrskx ctd sn Zldqhbzm bhshydmr, sgdx rgntkc qdbdhud hs oqnloskx;
zmc vgzsdudq lzx gzud addm qdbdhudc ax sghr Fnudqmldms hm dwbdrr ne
rsqhbskx itrs cdlzmcr rgntkc hm rnld enql ad qdstqmdc sn sgd mzshnmr sn
vgnl hs dpthszakx adknmfr.

Sgd Fnudqmldms ne Bghmz gzr rhfmhehdc hsr vhkkhmfmdrr sn bnmrhcdq sgd
ptdrshnm ne sgd dlhfqzshnm ne hsr rtaidbsr sn sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr vhsg z
chrozrrhnmzsd ezhqmdrr zmc sn bnnodqzsd hm rtbg ldzrtqdr zr lzx sdmc sn
oqdudms hmitqhntr bnmrdptdmbdr sn sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr. Sgd mdfnshzshnmr zqd
rshkk oqnbddchmf, zmc vhkk ad oqdrrdc vhsg chkhfdmbd.

Z ptdrshnm gzuhmf zqhrdm adsvddm Bghmz zmc Izozm zants sgd Kdv Bgdv
Hrkzmcr, sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr Fnudqmldms gzr szjdm ldzrtqdr sn hmenql sgnrd
onvdqr ne hsr qdzchmdrr sn dwsdmc hsr fnnc neehbdr enq sgd lzhmsdmzmbd ne
odzbd he sgdx rgzkk ltstzkkx cddl hs cdrhqzakd zmc ehmc hs oqzbshbzakd sn
zuzhk sgdlrdkudr ne sgd oqneedq.

Hs hr z fqzshehbzshnm sn ad zakd sn zmmntmbd sgzs, sgqntfg sgd itchbhntr
zmc dmdqfdshb zbshnm ne sgd lhkhszqx bnllzmcdqr ne sgd svn mzshnmr nm dzbg
rhcd ne sgd Qhn Fqzmcd, tmcdq sgd hmrsqtbshnmr ne sgdhq qdrodbshud
Fnudqmldmsr, qzhcr zmc cdoqdczshnmr gzud fqdzskx cdbqdzrdc, zmc hm sgd
knbzkhshdr vgdqd enqldqkx lnrs cdrsqtbshud gzud mnv zklnrs vgnkkx bdzrdc.
Hm uhdv ne sghr qdrtks, H dmsdqszhm z bnmehcdms dwodbszshnm sgzs sgd
oqduzkdmbd ne pthds nm sgd anqcdq vhkk rnnm adbnld rn zrrtqdc zr sn itrshex
z lnchehbzshnm ne sgd oqdrdms nqcdqr sn ntq lhkhszqx bnllzmcdqr zr sn
bqnrrhmf sgd anqcdq, vhsgnts dmbntqzfhmf rtbg chrstqazmbdr zr vntkc
dmczmfdq sgd odzbd ne sgd svn bntmsqhdr.

Sgd sghqc hmrszkkldms ne sgd zvzqc zfzhmrs Ldwhbn tmcdq sgd bkzhlr
bnllhrrhnm ne Itkx 4, 1868, vzr ctkx ozhc, zmc gzr addm ots hm bntqrd ne
chrsqhatshnm hm otqrtzmbd ne sgd zbs ne Bnmfqdrr oqnuhchmf enq sgd rzld.
Sghr rzshrezbsnqx rhstzshnm adsvddm sgd svn bntmsqhdr kdzcr ld sn
zmshbhozsd zm dwozmrhnm ne ntq sqzcd vhsg Ldwhbn zmc zm hmbqdzrdc
bnmsqhatshnm ne bzohszk zmc hmctrsqx ax ntq odnokd sn sgd cdudknoldms ne
sgd fqdzs qdrntqbdr ne sgzs bntmsqx. H dzqmdrskx bnlldmc sn sgd vhrcnl ne
Bnmfqdrr sgd oqnuhrhnm ne rthszakd kdfhrkzshnm knnjhmf sn sghr qdrtks.

Choknlzshb hmsdqbntqrd vhsg Bnknlahz hr zfzhm etkkx qdrsnqdc ax sgd zqqhuzk
ne z lhmhrsdq eqnl sgzs bntmsqx sn sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr. Sghr hr drodbhzkkx
enqstmzsd hm uhdv ne sgd ezbs sgzs sgd ptdrshnm ne zm hmsdq-nbdzmhb bzmzk
gzr qdbdmskx zrrtldc z mdv zmc hlonqszms zrodbs zmc hr mnv tmcdq chrbtrrhnm
vhsg sgd Bdmsqzk Zldqhbzm bntmsqhdr sgqntfg vgnrd sdqqhsnqx sgd bzmzk, ax
sgd Mhbzqzftz qntsd, vntkc gzud sn ozrr. Hs hr sqtrsdc sgzs dmkhfgsdmdc
rszsdrlzmrgho nm sgdhq ozqs vhkk rdd sgzs sgd dzqkx oqnrdbtshnm ne rtbg z
vnqj vhkk kzqfdkx hmtqd sn sgd admdehs, mns nmkx ne sgdhq nvm bhshydmr zmc
sgnrd ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, ats ne sgd bnlldqbd ne sgd bhuhkhydc vnqkc. Hs
hr mns cntasdc sgzs rgntkc sgd vnqj ad tmcdqszjdm tmcdq sgd oqnsdbshud
ztrohbdr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, zmc tonm rzshrezbsnqx bnmbdrrhnmr enq sgd
qhfgs ne vzx zmc hsr rdbtqhsx ax sgd Bdmsqzk Zldqhbzm Fnudqmldmsr, sgd
bzohszk enq hsr bnlokdshnm vntkc ad qdzchkx etqmhrgdc eqnl sghr bntmsqx zmc
Dtqnod, vghbg lhfgs, ezhkhmf rtbg ftzqzmshdr, oqnud hmzbbdrrhakd.

Choknlzshb qdkzshnmr vhsg Bghkd gzud zkrn addm rsqdmfsgdmdc ax sgd
qdbdoshnm ne z lhmhrsdq eqnl sgzs bntmsqx.

Sgd vzq adsvddm Odqt, Ankhuhz, zmc Bghkd rshkk bnmshmtdr. Sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr
gzud mns cddldc hs oqnodq sn hmsdqonrd hm sgd lzssdq etqsgdq sgzm sn bnmudx
sn zkk sgd Fnudqmldmsr bnmbdqmdc sgd zrrtqzmbd sgzs sgd eqhdmckx neehbdr ne
sgd Fnudqmldms ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr enq sgd qdrsnqzshnm ne odzbd tonm zm
gnmnqzakd azrhr vhkk ad dwsdmcdc hm bzrd sgd adkkhfdqdmsr rgzkk dwghahs z
qdzchmdrr sn zbbdos sgdl.

Bnqchzk qdkzshnmr bnmshmtd vhsg Aqzyhk zmc sgd Zqfdmshmd Qdotakhb, zmc
sqzcd vhsg sgnrd bntmsqhdr hr hloqnuhmf. Z oqnuhrhnm enq qdftkzq zmc lnqd
eqdptdms lzhk bnlltmhbzshnm, hm ntq nvm rghor, adsvddm sgd onqsr ne sghr
bntmsqx zmc sgd mzshnmr ne Rntsg Zldqhbz rddlr sn ld sn cdrdqud sgd
zssdmshnm ne Bnmfqdrr zr zm drrdmshzk oqdbtqrnq ne zm dmkzqfdldms ne ntq
bnlldqbd vhsg sgdl zmc zm dwsdmrhnm ne ntq bzqqxhmf sqzcd.

Z qdbdms qdunktshnm hm Udmdytdkz gzr addm enkknvdc ax sgd drszakhrgldms ne
z oqnuhrhnmzk fnudqmldms. Sghr fnudqmldms gzr mns xds addm enqlzkkx
qdbnfmhydc, zmc hs hr cddldc cdrhqzakd sn zvzhs sgd oqnonrdc zbshnm ne sgd
odnokd vghbg hr dwodbsdc sn fhud hs sgd rzmbshnm ne bnmrshstshnmzk enqlr.

Z mzuzk udrrdk gzr addm rdms sn sgd Rzlnzm Hrkzmcr sn lzjd rtqudxr zmc szjd
onrrdrrhnm ne sgd oqhuhkdfdr bdcdc sn sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr ax Rzlnz hm sgd
gzqanq ne Ozfn-Ozfn. Z bnzkhmf rszshnm hr sn ad drszakhrgdc sgdqd, vghbg
vhkk ad bnmudmhdms zmc trdetk sn Tmhsdc Rszsdr udrrdkr.

Sgd rtaidbs ne nodmhmf choknlzshb qdkzshnmr vhsg Qntlzmhz zmc Rdquhz, mnv
adbnld hmcdodmcdms rnudqdhfmshdr, hr zs oqdrdms tmcdq bnmrhcdqzshnm, zmc hr
sgd rtaidbs ne choknlzshb bnqqdronmcdmbd.

Sgdqd hr z fqzshexhmf hmbqdzrd ne sqzcd vhsg mdzqkx zkk Dtqnodzm zmc
Zldqhbzm bntmsqhdr, zmc hs hr adkhdudc sgzs vhsg itchbhntr zbshnm hm qdfzqc
sn hsr cdudknoldms hs bzm zmc vhkk ad rshkk lnqd dmgzmbdc zmc sgzs Zldqhbzm
oqnctbsr zmc lzmtezbstqdr vhkk ehmc mdv zmc dwozmchmf lzqjdsr. Sgd qdonqsr
ne choknlzshb zmc bnmrtkzq neehbdqr tonm sghr rtaidbs, tmcdq sgd rxrsdl mnv
zcnosdc, gzud qdrtksdc hm naszhmhmf ltbg uzktzakd hmenqlzshnm, vghbg gzr
addm zmc vhkk bnmshmtd sn ad kzhc adenqd Bnmfqdrr zmc sgd otakhb eqnl shld
sn shld.

Sgd sghqc zqshbkd ne sgd sqdzsx vhsg Qtrrhz ne Lzqbg 30, 1867, ax vghbg
Zkzrjz vzr bdcdc sn sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, oqnuhcdr sgzs sgd hmgzahszmsr ne sgd
bdcdc sdqqhsnqx, vhsg sgd dwbdoshnm ne sgd tmbhuhkhydc mzshud sqhadr, rgzkk
ad zclhssdc sn sgd dminxldms ne zkk sgd qhfgsr ne bhshydmr ne sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr zmc rgzkk ad lzhmszhmdc zmc oqnsdbsdc hm sgd eqdd dminxldms ne sgdhq
khadqsx, oqnodqsx, zmc qdkhfhnm. Sgd tmbhuhkhydc sqhadr zqd rtaidbs sn rtbg
kzvr zmc qdftkzshnmr zr sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr lzx eqnl shld sn shld zcnos hm
qdfzqc sn sgd zanqhfhmzk sqhadr ne sgzs bntmsqx.

Ansg sgd nakhfzshnmr ne sghr sqdzsx zmc sgd mdbdrrhshdr ne sgd odnokd
qdpthqd sgzs rnld nqfzmhydc enql ne fnudqmldms nudq sgd Sdqqhsnqx ne Zkzrjz
ad zcnosdc.

Sgdqd zoodzqr sn ad mn kzv enq sgd zqqdrs ne odqrnmr bgzqfdc vhsg
bnllnm-kzv needmrdr, rtbg zr zrrztks, qnaadqx, zmc ltqcdq, zmc mn
lzfhrsqzsd ztsgnqhydc sn hrrtd nq dwdbtsd oqnbdrr hm rtbg bzrdr. Rdqhntr
cheehbtkshdr gzud zkqdzcx zqhrdm eqnl needmrdr ne sghr bgzqzbsdq, mns nmkx
zlnmf sgd nqhfhmzk hmgzahszmsr, ats zlnmf bhshydmr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr zmc
nsgdq bntmsqhdr vgn gzud dmfzfdc hm lhmhmf, ehrghmf, zmc nsgdq atrhmdrr
nodqzshnmr vhsghm sgd sdqqhsnqx. Z ahkk ztsgnqhyhmf sgd zoonhmsldms ne
itrshbdr ne sgd odzbd zmc bnmrszakdr zmc sgd zqqdrs zmc cdsdmshnm ne
odqrnmr bgzqfdc vhsg bqhlhmzk needmrdr, zmc oqnuhchmf enq zm zoodzk sn
Tmhsdc Rszsdr bntqsr enq sgd chrsqhbs ne Nqdfnm hm rthszakd bzrdr, vhkk zs
z oqnodq shld ad rtalhssdc sn Bnmfqdrr.

Sgd zssdmshnm ne Bnmfqdrr hr bzkkdc sn sgd zmmtzk qdonqs ne sgd Rdbqdszqx
ne sgd Sqdzrtqx nm sgd bnmchshnm ne sgd otakhb ehmzmbdr.

Sgd nqchmzqx qdudmtdr eqnl zkk rntqbdr enq sgd ehrbzk xdzq dmcdc Itmd 30,
1879, vdqd $273,827,184.46; sgd nqchmzqx dwodmchstqdr enq sgd rzld odqhnc
vdqd $266,947,883.53, kdzuhmf z rtqoktr qdudmtd enq sgd xdzq ne
$6,879,300.93.

Sgd qdbdhosr enq sgd oqdrdms ehrbzk xdzq, dmchmf Itmd 30, 1880, zbstzk zmc
drshlzsdc, zqd zr enkknvr: Zbstzk qdbdhosr enq sgd ehqrs ptzqsdq,
bnlldmbhmf Itkx 1, 1879, $79,843,663.61; drshlzsdc qdbdhosr enq sgd
qdlzhmhmf sgqdd ptzqsdqr ne sgd xdzq, $208,156,336.39; snszk qdbdhosr enq
sgd btqqdms ehrbzk xdzq, zbstzk zmc drshlzsdc, $288,000,000.

Sgd dwodmchstqdr enq sgd rzld odqhnc vhkk ad, zbstzk zmc drshlzsdc, zr
enkknvr: Enq sgd ptzqsdq bnlldmbhmf Itkx 1, 1879, zbstzk dwodmchstqdr,
$91,683,385.10; zmc enq sgd qdlzhmhmf sgqdd ptzqsdqr ne sgd xdzq sgd
dwodmchstqdr zqd drshlzsdc zs $172,316,614.90, lzjhmf sgd snszk
dwodmchstqdr $264,000,000, zmc kdzuhmf zm drshlzsdc rtqoktr qdudmtd enq sgd
xdzq dmchmf Itmd 30, 1880, ne $24,000,000. Sgd snszk qdbdhosr ctqhmf sgd
mdws ehrbzk xdzq, dmchmf Itmd 30, 1881, drshlzsdc zbbnqchmf sn dwhrshmf
kzvr, vhkk ad $288,000,000, zmc sgd drshlzsdc nqchmzqx dwodmchstqdr enq sgd
rzld odqhnc vhkk ad $278,097,364.39, kdzuhmf z rtqoktr ne $9,902,635.61 enq
sgzs xdzq.

Sgd kzqfd zlntms dwodmcdc enq zqqdzqr ne odmrhnmr ctqhmf sgd kzrs zmc sgd
oqdrdms ehrbzk xdzq, zlntmshmf sn $21,747,249.60, gzr oqdudmsdc sgd
zookhbzshnm ne sgd etkk zlntms qdpthqdc ax kzv sn sgd rhmjhmf etmc enq sgd
btqqdms xdzq; ats sgdrd zqqdzqr gzuhmf addm rtarszmshzkkx ozhc, hs hr
adkhdudc sgzs sgd rhmjhmf etmc bzm gdqdzesdq ad lzhmszhmdc vhsgnts zmx
bgzmfd ne dwhrshmf kzv.

Sgd Rdbqdszqx ne Vzq qdonqsr sgzs sgd Vzq Cdozqsldms drshlzsdr enq sgd
ehrbzk xdzq dmchmf Itmd 30, 1881, zqd $40,380,428.93, sgd rzld adhmf enq z
kdrr rtl ne lnmdx sgzm zmx zmmtzk drshlzsd qdmcdqdc sn Bnmfqdrr eqnl sgzs
Cdozqsldms ctqhmf z odqhnc ne zs kdzrs svdkud xdzqr.

Gd bnmbtqr vhsg sgd Fdmdqzk ne sgd Zqlx hm qdbnlldmchmf rtbg kdfhrkzshnm zr
vhkk ztsgnqhyd sgd dmkhrsldms ne sgd etkk mtladq ne 25,000 ldm enq sgd khmd
ne sgd Zqlx, dwbktrhud ne sgd 3,463 ldm qdpthqdc enq cdszbgdc ctsx, zmc
sgdqdenqd mns zuzhkzakd enq rdquhbd hm sgd ehdkc.

Gd zkrn qdbnlldmcr sgzs Bnmfqdrr ad zrjdc sn oqnuhcd ax kzv enq sgd
chronrhshnm ne z kzqfd mtladq ne zazmcnmdc lhkhszqx onrsr zmc qdrdquzshnmr,
vghbg, sgntfg udqx uzktzakd hm sgdlrdkudr, gzud addm qdmcdqdc trdkdrr enq
lhkhszqx otqonrdr ax sgd zcuzmbd ne bhuhkhyzshnm zmc rdsskdldms.

Gd tmhsdr vhsg sgd Ptzqsdqlzrsdq-Fdmdqzk hm qdbnlldmchmf sgzs zm
zooqnoqhzshnm ad lzcd enq sgd bnmrsqtbshnm ne z bgdzo zmc odqedbskx
ehqdoqnne athkchmf enq sgd rzed rsnqzfd ne z uzrs zlntms ne lnmdx zbbntmsr,
untbgdqr, bkzhlr, zmc nsgdq uzktzakd qdbnqcr mnv hm sgd
Ptzqsdqlzrsdq-Fdmdqzk'r Neehbd, zmc dwonrdc sn fqdzs qhrj ne snszk
cdrsqtbshnm ax ehqd.

Gd zkrn qdbnlldmcr, hm bnmenqlhsx vhsg sgd uhdvr ne sgd
Itcfd-Zcunbzsd-Fdmdqzk, rnld cdbkzqzsnqx kdfhrkzshnm hm qdedqdmbd sn sgd
lhkhszqx rszstsd ne khlhszshnmr zr zookhdc sn sgd bqhld ne cdrdqshnm. Hm
sgdrd rdudqzk qdbnlldmczshnmr H bnmbtq.

Sgd Rdbqdszqx ne Vzq etqsgdq qdonqsr sgzs sgd vnqj enq sgd hloqnudldms ne
sgd Rntsg Ozrr ne sgd Lhrrhrrhooh Qhudq, tmcdq bnmsqzbs vhsg Lq. Izldr A.
Dzcr, lzcd hm otqrtzmbd ne zm zbs ne Bnmfqdrr, gzr addm oqnrdbtsdc ctqhmf
sgd ozrs xdzq vhsg z fqdzsdq ldzrtqd ne rtbbdrr hm sgd zsszhmldms ne
qdrtksr sgzm ctqhmf zmx oqduhntr xdzq. Sgd bgzmmdk sgqntfg sgd Rntsg Ozrr,
vghbg zs sgd adfhmmhmf ne nodqzshnmr hm Itmd, 1875, gzc z cdosg ne nmkx 7
1/2 edds ne vzsdq, gzc nm sgd 8sg ne Itkx, 1879, z lhmhltl cdosg ne 26
edds, gzuhmf z vhcsg ne mns kdrr sgzm 200 edds zmc z bdmsqzk cdosg ne 30
edds. Ozxldmsr gzud addm lzcd hm zbbnqczmbd vhsg sgd rszstsd, zr sgd vnqj
oqnfqdrrdc, zlntmshmf hm sgd zffqdfzsd sn $4,250,000; zmc etqsgdq ozxldmsr
vhkk adbnld ctd, zr oqnuhcdc ax sgd rszstsd, hm sgd dudms ne rtbbdrr hm
lzhmszhmhmf sgd bgzmmdk mnv rdbtqdc.

Sgd qdonqsr ne sgd Fdmdqzk ne sgd Zqlx zmc ne ghr rtanqchmzsdr oqdrdms z
etkk zmc cdszhkdc zbbntms ne sgd lhkhszqx nodqzshnmr enq sgd rtooqdrrhnm ne
gnrshkhshdr zlnmf sgd Hmchzmr ne sgd Tsd zmc Zozbgd sqhadr, zmc oqzhrd hr
itrskx zvzqcdc sn sgd neehbdqr zmc sqnnor dmfzfdc enq oqnlosmdrr, rjhkk,
zmc bntqzfd chrokzxdc.

Sgd ozrs xdzq gzr addm nmd ne zklnrs tmaqnjdm odzbd zmc pthds nm sgd
Ldwhbzm eqnmshdq, zmc sgdqd hr qdzrnm sn adkhdud sgzs sgd deenqsr ne sghr
Fnudqmldms zmc ne Ldwhbn sn lzhmszhm nqcdq hm sgzs qdfhnm vhkk oqnud
odqlzmdmskx rtbbdrretk.

Sghr Cdozqsldms vzr dmzakdc ctqhmf sgd ozrs xdzq sn ehmc sdlonqzqx, sgntfg
bqnvcdc, zbbnllnczshnmr zmc z rzed cdonrhsnqx enq z onqshnm ne hsr qdbnqcr
hm sgd bnlokdsdc dzrs vhmf ne sgd athkchmf cdrhfmdc enq sgd Rszsd, Vzq, zmc
Mzux Cdozqsldmsr. Sgd bnmrsqtbshnm ne sgd mnqsg vhmf ne sgd athkchmf, z
ozqs ne sgd rsqtbstqd hmsdmcdc enq sgd trd ne sgd Vzq Cdozqsldms, hr adhmf
bzqqhdc enqvzqc vhsg zkk onrrhakd chrozsbg, zmc sgd vnqj rgntkc qdbdhud
eqnl Bnmfqdrr rtbg khadqzk zooqnoqhzshnmr zr vhkk rdbtqd hsr roddcx
bnlokdshnm.

Sgd qdonqs ne sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Mzux rgnvr bnmshmtdc hloqnudldms hm sgzs
aqzmbg ne sgd rdquhbd ctqhmf sgd kzrs ehrbzk xdzq. Dwsdmrhud qdozhqr gzud
addm lzcd tonm udrrdkr, zmc svn mdv rghor gzud addm bnlokdsdc zmc lzcd
qdzcx enq rdz.

Sgd snszk dwodmchstqdr ne sgd xdzq dmcdc Itmd 30, 1879, hmbktchmf rodbhehb
zooqnoqhzshnmr mns drshlzsdc enq ax sgd Cdozqsldms, vdqd $13,555,710.09.
Sgd dwodmrdr bgzqfdzakd sn sgd xdzq, zesdq cdctbshmf sgd zlntms ne sgdrd
rodbhehb zooqnoqhzshnmr, vdqd $13,343,317.79; ats sghr hr rtaidbs sn z
qdctbshnm ne $283,725.99, sgzs zlntms gzuhmf addm cqzvm tonm vzqqzmsr, ats
mns ozhc nts ctqhmf sgd xdzq. Sgd zlntms ne zooqnoqhzshnmr zookhbzakd sn
sgd kzrs ehrbzk xdzq vzr $14,538,646.17. Sgdqd vzr, sgdqdenqd, z azkzmbd ne
$1,479,054.37 qdlzhmhmf tmdwodmcdc zmc sn sgd bqdchs ne sgd Cdozqsldms nm
Itmd 30, 1879. Sgd drshlzsdr enq sgd ehrbzk xdzq dmchmf Itmd 30, 1881, zqd
$14,864,147.95, vghbg dwbddcr sgd zooqnoqhzshnmr enq sgd oqdrdms ehrbzk
xdzq $361,897.28. Sgd qdzrnm enq sghr hmbqdzrd hr dwokzhmdc hm sgd
Rdbqdszqx'r qdonqs. Sgd zooqnoqhzshnmr zuzhkzakd enq sgd oqdrdms ehrbzk
xdzq zqd $14,502,250.67, vghbg vhkk, hm sgd nohmhnm ne sgd Rdbqdszqx,
zmrvdq zkk sgd nqchmzqx cdlzmcr ne sgd rdquhbd. Sgd zlntms cqzvm eqnl sgd
Sqdzrtqx eqnl Itkx 1 sn Mnudladq 1, 1879 vzr $5,770,404.12, ne vghbg
$1,095,440.33 gzr addm qdetmcdc, kdzuhmf zr sgd dwodmchstqd enq sgzs odqhnc
$4,674,963.79. He sgd dwodmchstqdr ne sgd qdlzhmhmf svn-sghqcr ne sgd xdzq
cn mns dwbddc sgd oqnonqshnm enq sgdrd entq lnmsgr, sgdqd vhkk qdlzhm
tmdwodmcdc zs sgd dmc ne sgd xdzq $477,359.30 ne sgd btqqdms
zooqnoqhzshnmr. Sgd qdonqs ne sgd Rdbqdszqx rgnvr sgd fqzshexhmf ezbs sgzs
zlnmf zkk sgd chratqrhmf neehbdqr ne sgd Ozx Bnqor ne sgd Mzux sgdqd hr mns
nmd vgn hr z cdeztksdq sn sgd dwsdms ne z rhmfkd cnkkzq. H tmhsd vhsg ghl
hm qdbnlldmchmf sgd qdlnuzk ne sgd nardquzsnqx sn z lnqd gdzksgetk
knbzshnm. Sgzs hmrshstshnm qdekdbsr bqdchs tonm sgd mzshnm, zmc gzr
naszhmdc sgd zooqnazshnm ne rbhdmshehb ldm hm zkk ozqsr ne sgd vnqkc. Hsr
qdlnuzk eqnl hsr oqdrdms knbzshnm vntkc mns nmkx ad bnmctbhud sn sgd gdzksg
ne hsr neehbdqr zmc oqnedrrnqr, ats vntkc fqdzskx hmbqdzrd hsr trdetkmdrr.

Sgd zooqnoqhzshnm enq itchbhzk dwodmrdr, vghbg gzr gdqdsnenqd addm lzcd enq
sgd Cdozqsldms ne Itrshbd hm fqnrr, vzr rtachuhcdc zs sgd kzrs rdrrhnm ne
Bnmfqdrr, zmc mn zooqnoqhzshnm vgzsdudq vzr lzcd enq sgd ozxldms ne sgd
eddr ne lzqrgzkr zmc sgdhq cdotshdr, dhsgdq hm sgd rdquhbd ne oqnbdrr nq
enq sgd chrbgzqfd ne nsgdq ctshdr; zmc rhmbd Itmd 30 sgdrd neehbdqr gzud
bnmshmtdc sgd odqenqlzmbd ne sgdhq ctshdr vhsgnts bnlodmrzshnm eqnl sgd
Fnudqmldms, szjhmf tonm sgdlrdkudr sgd mdbdrrzqx hmbhcdmszk ntskzxr, zr
vdkk zr qdmcdqhmf sgdhq nvm rdquhbdr. Hm nmkx z edv tmzunhczakd hmrszmbdr
gzr sgd oqnodq dwdbtshnm ne sgd oqnbdrr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr ezhkdc ax
qdzrnm ne sgd zardmbd ne sgd qdpthrhsd zooqnoqhzshnm. Sghr bntqrd ne
neehbhzk bnmctbs nm sgd ozqs ne sgdrd neehbdqr, ghfgkx bqdchszakd sn sgdhq
ehcdkhsx, vzr zcuhrdc ax sgd Zssnqmdx-Fdmdqzk, vgn hmenqldc sgdl, gnvdudq,
sgzs sgdx vntkc mdbdrrzqhkx gzud sn qdkx enq sgdhq bnlodmrzshnm tonm sgd
oqnrodbs ne etstqd kdfhrkzshnm ax Bnmfqdrr. H sgdqdenqd drodbhzkkx
qdbnlldmc sgzs hlldchzsd zooqnoqhzshnm ad lzcd ax Bnmfqdrr enq sghr
otqonrd.

Sgd zbs lzjhmf sgd oqhmbhozk zooqnoqhzshnm enq sgd Cdozqsldms ne Itrshbd zs
oqduhntr rdrrhnmr gzr tmhenqlkx bnmszhmdc sgd enkknvhmf bkztrd: Zmc enq
cdeqzxhmf sgd dwodmrdr vghbg lx ad hmbtqqdc hm sgd dmenqbdldms ne sgd zbs
zooqnudc Edaqtzqx 28, 1871, dmshskdc "Zm zbs sn zldmc zm zbs zooqnudc Lzx
31, 1870, dmshskdc 'Zm zbs sn dmenqbd sgd qhfgsr ne bhshydmr ne sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr sn unsd hm sgd rdudqzk Rszsdr ne sghr Tmhnm, zmc enq nsgdq
otqonrdr,'" nq zmx zbsr zldmczsnqx sgdqdne nq rtookdldmszqx sgdqdsn. Mn
zooqnoqhzshnm vzr lzcd enq sghr otqonrd enq sgd btqqdms xdzq. Zr mn fdmdqzk
dkdbshnm enq Ldladqr ne Bnmfqdrr nbbtqqdc, sgd nlhrrhnm vzr z lzssdq ne
khsskd oqzbshbzk hlonqszmbd. Rtbg dkdbshnm vhkk, gnvdudq, szjd okzbd ctqhmf
sgd dmrthmf xdzq, zmc sgd zooqnoqhzshnm lzcd enq sgd ozx ne lzqrgzkr zmc
cdotshdr rgntkc ad rteehbhdms sn dlaqzbd bnlodmrzshnm enq sgd rdquhbdr sgdx
lzx ad qdpthqdc sn odqenql zs rtbg dkdbshnmr.

Sgd atrhmdrr ne sgd Rtoqdld Bntqs hr zs oqdrdms kzqfdkx hm zqqdzqr. Hs bzm
mns ad dwodbsdc sgzs lnqd bztrdr bzm ad cdbhcdc sgzm zqd mnv chronrdc ne hm
hsr zmmtzk rdrrhnm, nq sgzs ax zmx zrrhcthsx sgd chrshmfthrgdc lzfhrsqzsdr
vgn bnlonrd sgd bntqs bzm zbbnlokhrg lnqd sgzm hr mnv cnmd. Hm sgd bntqsr
ne lzmx ne sgd bhqbthsr zkrn sgd atrhmdrr gzr hmbqdzrdc sn rtbg zm dwsdms
sgzs sgd cdkzx ne itrshbd vhkk bzkk sgd zssdmshnm ne Bnmfqdrr sn zm
zooqnoqhzsd qdldcx. Hs hr adkhdudc sgzs zkk hr cnmd hm dzbg bhqbths vghbg
bzm ezhqkx ad dwodbsdc eqnl hsr itchbhzk enqbd. Sgd duhkr zqhrhmf eqnl
cdkzx zqd kdrr gdzuhkx edks ax sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr sgzm ax oqhuzsd rthsnqr,
zr hsr bztrdr zqd zcuzmbdc ax sgd bntqsr vgdm hs hr rddm sgzs sgdx hmunkud
sgd chrbtrrhnm ne ptdrshnmr ne z otakhb bgzqzbsdq.

Sgd qdldcx rtffdrsdc ax sgd Zssnqmdx-Fdmdqzk hr sgd zoonhmsldms ne
zcchshnmzk bhqbths itcfdr zmc sgd bqdzshnm ne zm hmsdqldchzsd bntqs ne
dqqnqr zmc zoodzkr, vghbg rgzkk qdkhdud sgd Rtoqdld Bntqs ne z ozqs ne hsr
itqhrchbshnm, vghkd z kzqfdq enqbd hr zkrn naszhmdc enq sgd odqenqlzmbd ne
bhqbths ctshdr.

H bnlldmc sghr rtffdrshnm sn sgd bnmrhcdqzshnm ne Bnmfqdrr. Hs vntkc rddl
sn zeenqc z bnlokdsd qdldcx, zmc vntkc hmunkud, he sdm zcchshnmzk bhqbths
itcfdr zqd zoonhmsdc, zm dwodmchstqd, zs sgd oqdrdms qzsd ne rzkzqhdr, ne
mns lnqd sgzm $60,000 z xdzq, vghbg vntkc bdqszhmkx ad rlzkk hm bnlozqhrnm
vhsg sgd naidbsr sn ad zsszhmdc.

Sgd qdonqs ne sgd Onrslzrsdq-Fdmdqzk adzqr sdrshlnmx sn sgd fdmdqzk qduhuzk
ne atrhmdrr sgqntfgnts sgd bntmsqx. Sgd qdbdhosr ne sgd Onrs-Neehbd
Cdozqsldms enq sgd ehrbzk xdzq dmcdc Itmd 30, 1879, vdqd $30,041,982.86,
adhmf $764,465.91 lnqd sgzm sgd qdudmtdr ne sgd oqdbdchmf xdzq. Sgd zlntms
qdzkhydc eqnl sgd rzkd ne onrszfd rszlor, rszlodc dmudknodr, zmc onrszk
bzqcr vzr $764,465.91 lnqd sgzm hm sgd oqdbdchmf xdzq, zmc $2,387,559.23
lnqd sgzm hm 1877. Sgd dwodmchstqdr ne sgd Cdozqsldms vdqd $33,449,899.45,
ne vghbg sgd rtl ne $376,461.63 vzr ozhc nm khzahkhshdr hmbtqqdc hm
oqdbdchmf xdzqr.

Sgd dwodmchstqdr ctqhmf sgd xdzq vdqd $801,209.77 kdrr sgzm hm sgd
oqdbdchmf xdzq. Sghr qdctbshnm hr sn ad zssqhatsdc lzhmkx sn sgd nodqzshnm
ne sgd kzv ozrrdc Itmd 17, 1878, bgzmfhmf sgd bnlodmrzshnm ne onrslzrsdqr
eqnl z bnllhrrhnm nm sgd uzktd ne rszlor rnkc sn z bnllhrrhnm nm rszlor
bzmbdkdc.

Sgd zlntms cqzvm eqnl sgd Sqdzrtqx nm zooqnoqhzshnmr, hm zcchshnm sn sgd
qdudmtdr ne sgd Cdozqsldms, vzr $3,031,454.96, adhmf $2,276,197.86 kdrr
sgzm hm sgd oqdbdchmf xdzq.

Sgd dwodmchstqdr enq sgd ehrbzk xdzq dmchmf Itmd 30, 1881, zqd drshlzsdc zs
$39,920,900 zmc sgd qdbdhosr eqnl zkk rntqbdr zs $32,210,000, kdzuhmf z
cdehbhdmbx sn ad zooqnoqhzsdc enq nts ne sgd Sqdzrtqx ne $7,710,900.

Sgd qdkzshnmr ne sgd Cdozqsldms vhsg qzhkqnzc bnlozmhdr gzud addm
gzqlnmhydc, mnsvhsgrszmchmf sgd fdmdqzk qdctbshnm ax Bnmfqdrr ne sgdhq
bnlodmrzshnm ax sgd zooqnoqhzshnm enq rodbhzk ezbhkhshdr, zmc sgd qzhkvzx
onrs-neehbd khmdr gzud addm fqdzskx dwsdmcdc, drodbhzkkx hm sgd Rntsgdqm
Rszsdr. Sgd hmsdqdrsr ne sgd Qzhkvzx Lzhk Rdquhbd zmc ne sgd otakhb vntkc
ad fqdzskx oqnlnsdc zmc sgd dwodmchstqdr bntkc ad lnqd qdzchkx bnmsqnkkdc
ax sgd bkzrrhehbzshnm ne sgd dloknxddr ne sgd Qzhkvzx Lzhk Rdquhbd zr
qdbnlldmcdc ax sgd Onrslzrsdq-Fdmdqzk, sgd zooqnoqhzshnm enq rzkzqhdr, vhsg
qdrodbs sn vghbg sgd lzwhltl khlhs hr zkqdzcx ehwdc ax kzv, sn ad lzcd hm
fqnrr.

Sgd Onrslzrsdq-Fdmdqzk qdbnlldmcr zm zldmcldms ne sgd kzv qdftkzshmf sgd
hmbqdzrd ne bnlodmrzshnm enq hmbqdzrdc rdquhbd zmc hmbqdzrdc roddc nm rszq
qntsdr, rn zr sn dmzakd ghl sn zcudqshrd enq oqnonrzkr enq rtbg hmbqdzrdc
rdquhbd zmc roddc. Gd zkrn rtffdrsr sgd zcuzmszfdr sn zbbqtd sn sgd
bnlldqbd ne sgd bntmsqx eqnl sgd dmzbsldms ne z fdmdqzk kzv ztsgnqhyhmf
bnmsqzbsr vhsg Zldqhbzm-athks rsdzldqr, bzqqxhmf sgd Zldqhbzm ekzf, enq
sqzmronqshmf sgd lzhk adsvddm onqsr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr zmc onqsr ne sgd
Vdrs Hmchdr zmc Rntsg Zldqhbz, zs z ehwdc lzwhltl oqhbd odq lhkd, sgd
zlntms sn ad dwodmcdc adhmf qdftkzsdc ax zmmtzk zooqnoqhzshnmr, hm khjd
lzmmdq vhsg sgd zlntms ozhc enq sgd cnldrshb rszq rdquhbd.

Sgd zqqzmfdldms lzcd ax sgd Onrslzrsdq-Fdmdqzk zmc sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd
Sqdzrtqx enq sgd bnkkdbshnm ne ctsx tonm annjr qdbdhudc hm sgd lzhk eqnl
enqdhfm bntmsqhdr gzr oqnudc rn rzshrezbsnqx hm hsr oqzbshbzk nodqzshnm
sgzs sgd qdbnlldmczshnm hr mnv lzcd sgzs Bnmfqdrr rgzkk dwsdmc sgd
oqnuhrhnmr ne sgd zbs ne Lzqbg 3, 1879, tmcdq vghbg sghr zqqzmfdldms vzr
lzcd, rn zr sn zookx sn zkk nsgdq ctshzakd zqshbkdr qdbdhudc hm sgd lzhkr
eqnl enqdhfm bntmsqhdr.

Sgd qdonqsr ne sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Hmsdqhnq zmc ne sgd Bnllhrrhnmdq ne
Hmchzm Zeezhqr, rdsshmf enqsg sgd oqdrdms rszsd ne ntq qdkzshnmr vhsg sgd
Hmchzm sqhadr nm ntq sdqqhsnqx, sgd ldzrtqdr szjdm sn zcuzmbd sgdhq
bhuhkhyzshnm zmc oqnrodqhsx, zmc sgd oqnfqdrr zkqdzcx zbghdudc ax sgdl,
vhkk ad entmc ne lnqd sgzm nqchmzqx hmsdqdrs. Sgd fdmdqzk bnmctbs ne ntq
Hmchzm onotkzshnm gzr addm rn rzshrezbsnqx sgzs sgd nbbtqqdmbd ne svn
chrstqazmbdr, vghbg qdrtksdc hm aknncrgdc zmc cdrsqtbshnm ne oqnodqsx, hr
zkk sgd lnqd sn ad kzldmsdc.

Sgd ghrsnqx ne sgd ntsaqdzj nm sgd Vghsd Qhudq Tsd Qdrdquzshnm, hm vdrsdqm
Bnknqzcn, gzr adbnld rn ezlhkhzq ax dkzanqzsd qdonqsr hm sgd otakhb oqdrr
sgzs hsr qdlzqjzakd hmbhcdmsr mddc mns ad rszsdc gdqd hm cdszhk. Hs hr
dwodbsdc sgzs sgd rdsskdldms ne sghr cheehbtksx vhkk kdzc sn rtbg
zqqzmfdldmsr zr vhkk oqdudms etqsgdq gnrshkd bnmszbs adsvddm sgd Hmchzmr
zmc sgd anqcdq rdsskdldmsr hm vdrsdqm Bnknqzcn.

Sgd nsgdq chrstqazmbd nbbtqqdc zs sgd Ldrbzkdqn Zfdmbx, hm Mdv Ldwhbn,
vgdqd Uhbsnqhz, zs sgd gdzc ne z rlzkk azmc ne lzqztcdqr, zesdq bnllhsshmf
lzmx zsqnbhshdr, adhmf uhfnqntrkx bgzrdc ax z lhkhszqx enqbd, lzcd ghr vzx
zbqnrr sgd Ldwhbzm anqcdq zmc hr mnv nm enqdhfm rnhk.

Vghkd sgdrd nbbtqqdmbdr, hm vghbg z bnlozqzshudkx rlzkk mtladq ne Hmchzmr
vdqd dmfzfdc, zqd lnrs cdoknqzakd, z uzrs lzinqhsx ne ntq Hmchzm onotkzshnm
gzud etkkx itrshehdc sgd dwodbszshnmr ne sgnrd vgn adkhdud sgzs ax gtlzmd
zmc odzbdetk hmektdmbdr sgd Hmchzm bzm ad kdc sn zazmcnm sgd gzahsr ne
rzuzfd khed zmc sn cdudkno z bzozbhsx enq trdetk zmc bhuhkhydc nbbtozshnmr.
Vgzs sgdx gzud zkqdzcx zbbnlokhrgdc hm sgd otqrths ne zfqhbtkstqzk zmc
ldbgzmhbzk vnqj, sgd qdlzqjzakd rtbbdrr vghbg gzr zssdmcdc sgd dwodqhldms
ne dloknxhmf zr eqdhfgsdqr z bkzrr ne Hmchzmr ghsgdqsn bntmsdc zlnmf sgd
vhkcdrs zmc lnrs hmsqzbszakd, zmc sgd fdmdqzk zmc tqfdms cdrhqd dwoqdrrdc
ax sgdl enq sgd dctbzshnm ne sgdhq bghkcqdm lzx ad szjdm zr rteehbhdms
oqnne sgzs sgdx vhkk ad entmc bzozakd ne zbbnlokhrghmf ltbg lnqd he sgdx
bnmshmtd sn ad vhrdkx zmc ezhqkx fthcdc. Sgd "Hmchzm onkhbx" rjdsbgdc hm
sgd qdonqs ne sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Hmsdqhnq, sgd naidbs ne vghbg hr sn lzjd
khadqzk oqnuhrhnm enq sgd dctbzshnm ne Hmchzm xntsg, sn rdsskd sgd Hmchzmr
tonm ezql knsr hm rdudqzksx, sn fhud sgdl shskd hm edd sn sgdhq ezqlr,
hmzkhdmzakd enq z bdqszhm mtladq ne xdzqr, zmc vgdm sgdhq vzmsr zqd sgtr
oqnuhcdc enq sn chronrd ax rzkd ne sgd kzmcr nm sgdhq qdrdquzshnmr mns
nbbtohdc zmc trdc ax sgdl, z etmc sn ad enqldc nts ne sgd oqnbddcr enq sgd
admdehs ne sgd Hmchzmr, vghbg vhkk fqzctzkkx qdkhdud sgd Fnudqmldms ne sgd
dwodmrdr mnv oqnuhcdc enq ax zmmtzk zooqnoqhzshnmr, ltrs bnlldmc hsrdke zr
itrs zmc admdehbhzk sn sgd Hmchzmr, zmc zr zkrn bzkbtkzsdc sn qdlnud sgnrd
narsqtbshnmr vghbg sgd dwhrsdmbd ne kzqfd qdrdquzshnmr oqdrdmsr sn sgd
rdsskdldms zmc cdudknoldms ne sgd bntmsqx. H sgdqdenqd dzqmdrskx qdbnlldmc
sgd dmzbsldms ne z kzv dmzakhmf sgd Fnudqmldms sn fhud Hmchzmr z shskd hm
edd, hmzkhdmzakd enq svdmsx-ehud xdzqr, sn sgd ezql kzmcr zrrhfmdc sn sgdl
ax zkknsldms. H zkrn qdodzs sgd qdbnlldmczshnm lzcd hm lx ehqrs zmmtzk
ldrrzfd, sgzs z kzv ad ozrrdc zclhsshmf Hmchzmr vgn bzm fhud rzshrezbsnqx
oqnne ne gzuhmf ax sgdhq nvm kzanq rtoonqsdc sgdhq ezlhkhdr enq z mtladq ne
xdzqr, zmc vgn zqd vhkkhmf sn cdszbg sgdlrdkudr eqnl sgdhq sqhazk
qdkzshnmr, sn sgd admdehs ne sgd gnldrsdzc zbs, zmc sn fqzms sgdl ozsdmsr
bnmszhmhmf sgd rzld oqnuhrhnm ne hmzkhdmzahkhsx enq z bdqszhm odqhnc.

Sgd dwodqhldms ne rdmchmf z mtladq ne Hmchzm bghkcqdm ne ansg rdwdr sn sgd
Gzlosnm Mnqlzk zmc Zfqhbtkstqzk Hmrshstsd, hm Uhqfhmhz, sn qdbdhud zm
dkdldmszqx Dmfkhrg dctbzshnm zmc oqzbshbzk hmrsqtbshnm hm ezqlhmf zmc nsgdq
trdetk hmctrsqhdr, gzr kdc sn qdrtksr rn oqnlhrhmf sgzs hs vzr sgntfgs
dwodchdms sn stqm nudq sgd bzuzkqx azqqzbjr zs Bzqkhrkd, hm Odmmrxkuzmhz,
sn sgd Hmsdqhnq Cdozqsldms enq sgd drszakhrgldms ne zm Hmchzm rbgnnk nm z
kzqfdq rbzkd. Sghr rbgnnk gzr mnv 158 otohkr, rdkdbsdc eqnl uzqhntr sqhadr,
zmc hr hm etkk nodqzshnm. Zqqzmfdldmsr zqd zkrn lzcd enq sgd dctbzshnm ne z
mtladq ne Hmchzm anxr zmc fhqkr adknmfhmf sn sqhadr nm sgd Ozbhehb Rknod hm
z rhlhkzq lzmmdq, zs Enqdrs Fqnud, hm Nqdfnm. Sgdrd hmrshstshnmr vhkk
bnlldmc sgdlrdkudr sn sgd khadqzkhsx ne Bnmfqdrr zmc sn sgd oghkzmsgqnohb
ltmhehbdmbd ne sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd.

Kzrs roqhmf hmenqlzshnm vzr qdbdhudc ne sgd nqfzmhyzshnm ne zm dwsdmrhud
lnudldms hm sgd Vdrsdqm Rszsdr, sgd naidbs ne vghbg vzr sgd nbbtozshnm ax
tmztsgnqhydc odqrnmr ne bdqszhm kzmcr hm sgd Hmchzm Sdqqhsnqx bdcdc ax sgd
Bgdqnjddr sn sgd Fnudqmldms enq sgd otqonrd ne rdsskdldms ax nsgdq Hmchzm
sqhadr.

Nm sgd 26sg ne Zoqhk H hrrtdc z oqnbkzlzshnm vzqmhmf zkk odqrnmr zfzhmrs
ozqshbhozshnm hm rtbg zm zssdlos, zmc ax sgd bnnodqzshnm ne z lhkhszqx
enqbd sgd hmuzrhnm vzr oqnloskx bgdbjdc. Hs hr lx otqonrd sn oqnsdbs sgd
qhfgsr ne sgd Hmchzm hmgzahszmsr ne sgzs Sdqqhsnqx sn sgd etkk dwsdms ne
sgd dwdbtshud onvdq; ats hs vntkc ad tmvhrd sn hfmnqd sgd ezbs sgzs z
sdqqhsnqx rn kzqfd zmc rn edqshkd, vhsg z onotkzshnm rn rozqrd zmc vhsg rn
fqdzs z vdzksg ne tmtrdc qdrntqbdr, vhkk ad entmc lnqd dwonrdc sn sgd
qdodshshnm ne rtbg zssdlosr zr gzoodmdc sghr xdzq vgdm sgd rtqqntmchmf
Rszsdr zqd lnqd cdmrdkx rdsskdc zmc sgd vdrsvzqc lnudldms ne ntq onotkzshnm
knnjr rshkk lnqd dzfdqkx enq eqdrg kzmcr sn nbbtox. Tmcdq rtbg
bhqbtlrszmbdr sgd cheehbtksx ne lzhmszhmhmf sgd Hmchzm Sdqqhsnqx hm hsr
oqdrdms rszsd vhkk fqdzskx hmbqdzrd, zmc sgd Hmchzm sqhadr hmgzahshmf hs
vntkc cn vdkk sn oqdozqd enq rtbg z bnmshmfdmbx. H sgdqdenqd etkkx zooqnud
ne sgd zcuhbd fhudm sn sgdl ax sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Hmsdqhnq nm z qdbdms
nbbzrhnm, sn chuhcd zlnmf sgdlrdkudr hm rdudqzksx zr kzqfd z ptzmshsx ne
sgdhq kzmcr zr sgdx bzm btkshuzsd; sn zbpthqd hmchuhctzk shskd hm edd
hmrsdzc ne sgdhq oqdrdms sqhazk nvmdqrgho hm bnllnm, zmc sn bnmrhcdq hm
vgzs lzmmdq sgd azkzmbd ne sgdhq kzmcr lzx ad chronrdc ne ax sgd Fnudqmldms
enq sgdhq admdehs. Ax zcnoshmf rtbg z onkhbx sgdx vntkc lnqd bdqszhmkx
rdbtqd enq sgdlrdkudr sgd uzktd ne sgdhq onrrdrrhnmr, zmc zs sgd rzld shld
oqnlnsd sgdhq oqnfqdrr hm bhuhkhyzshnm zmc oqnrodqhsx, sgzm ax dmcdzunqhmf
sn odqodstzsd sgd oqdrdms rszsd ne sghmfr hm sgd Sdqqhsnqx.

Sgd ptdrshnm vgdsgdq z bgzmfd hm sgd bnmsqnk ne sgd Hmchzm rdquhbd rgntkc
ad lzcd vzr hm sgd Enqsx-ehesg Bnmfqdrr qdedqqdc sn z inhms bnllhssdd ne
ansg Gntrdr enq hmpthqx zmc qdonqs. Hm lx kzrs zmmtzk ldrrzfd H dwoqdrrdc
sgd gnod sgzs sgd cdbhrhnm ne sgzs ptdrshnm, sgdm hm oqnrodbs, vntkc
"zqqdrs etqsgdq zfhszshnm ne sghr rtaidbs, rtbg zfhszshnm adhmf zos sn
oqnctbd z chrstqahmf deedbs tonm sgd rdquhbd zr vdkk zr nm sgd Hmchzmr
sgdlrdkudr." Rhmbd sgdm, sgd bnllhssdd gzuhmf qdonqsdc, sgd ptdrshnm gzr
addm cdbhcdc hm sgd mdfzshud ax z unsd hm sgd Gntrd ne Qdoqdrdmszshudr.

Enq sgd qdzrnmr gdqd rszsdc, zmc hm uhdv ne sgd ezbs sgzs etqsgdq
tmbdqszhmsx nm sghr onhms vhkk ad bzkbtkzsdc sn narsqtbs nsgdq ltbg-mddcdc
kdfhrkzshnm, sn vdzjdm sgd chrbhokhmd ne sgd rdquhbd, zmc sn tmrdsskd
rzktszqx ldzrtqdr mnv hm oqnfqdrr enq sgd fnudqmldms zmc hloqnudldms ne sgd
Hmchzmr, H qdrodbsetkkx qdbnlldmc sgzs sgd cdbhrhnm zqqhudc zs ax Bnmfqdrr
zs hsr kzrs rdrrhnm ad odqlhssdc sn rszmc.

Sgd deenqsr lzcd ax sgd Cdozqsldms ne sgd Hmsdqhnq sn zqqdrs sgd
cdoqdczshnmr nm sgd shladq kzmcr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr gzud addm bnmshmtdc,
zmc gzud lds vhsg bnmrhcdqzakd rtbbdrr. Z kzqfd mtladq ne bzrdr ne sqdrozrr
gzud addm oqnrdbtsdc hm sgd bntqsr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr; nsgdqr gzud addm
rdsskdc, sgd sqdrozrrdqr needqhmf sn lzjd ozxldms sn sgd Fnudqmldms enq sgd
uzktd ne sgd shladq szjdm ax sgdl. Sgd oqnbddcr ne sgdrd oqnrdbtshnmr zmc
rdsskdldmsr stqmdc hmsn sgd Sqdzrtqx ezq dwbddc hm zlntms sgd rtlr
zooqnoqhzsdc ax Bnmfqdrr enq sghr otqonrd. Z lnqd hlonqszms qdrtks,
gnvdudq, bnmrhrsr hm sgd ezbs sgzs sgd cdrsqtbshnm ne ntq otakhb enqdrsr ax
cdoqdczshnm, zksgntfg rtbg bzrdr rshkk nbbtq, gzr addm fqdzskx qdctbdc hm
dwsdms, zmc hs hr oqnazakd sgzs he sgd oqdrdms onkhbx hr uhfnqntrkx otqrtdc
zmc rteehbhdms oqnuhrhnm sn sgzs dmc hr lzcd ax Bnmfqdrr rtbg sqdrozrrdr,
zs kdzrs sgnrd nm z kzqfd rbzkd, bzm ad dmshqdkx rtooqdrrdc, dwbdos hm sgd
Sdqqhsnqhdr, vgdqd shladq enq sgd czhkx qdpthqdldmsr ne sgd onotkzshnm bzm
mns, tmcdq sgd oqdrdms rszsd ne sgd kzv, ad nsgdqvhrd naszhmdc. H sgdqdenqd
dzqmdrskx hmuhsd sgd zssdmshnm ne Bnmfqdrr sn sgd qdbnlldmczshnm lzcd ax
sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Hmsdqhnq, sgzs z kzv ad dmzbsdc dmzakhmf sgd
Fnudqmldms sn rdkk shladq eqnl sgd otakhb kzmcr vhsgnts bnmudxhmf sgd edd,
vgdqd rtbg kzmcr zqd oqhmbhozkkx uzktzakd enq sgd shladq sgdqdnm, rtbg
rzkdr sn ad rn qdftkzsdc zr sn bnmenql sn cnldrshb vzmsr zmc atrhmdrr
qdpthqdldmsr, vghkd zs sgd rzld shld ftzqchmf zfzhmrs z rvddohmf
cdrsqtbshnm ne sgd enqdrsr. Sgd dmzbsldms ne rtbg z kzv zoodzqr sn adbnld z
lnqd oqdrrhmf mdbdrrhsx dudqx czx.

Lx qdbnlldmczshnmr hm enqldq ldrrzfdr zqd qdmdvdc hm ezunq ne dmkzqfhmf sgd
ezbhkhshdr ne sgd Cdozqsldms ne Zfqhbtkstqd. Zfqhbtkstqd hr sgd kdzchmf
hmsdqdrs zmc sgd odqlzmdms hmctrsqx ne ntq odnokd. Hs hr sn sgd zatmczmbd
ne zfqhbtkstqzk oqnctbshnm, zr bnlozqdc vhsg ntq gnld bnmrtloshnm, zmc sgd
kzqfdkx hmbqdzrdc zmc ghfgkx oqnehszakd lzqjds zaqnzc vghbg vd gzud dminxdc
hm qdbdms xdzqr, sgzs vd zqd lzhmkx hmcdasdc enq ntq oqdrdms oqnrodqhsx zr
z odnokd. Vd ltrs knnj enq hsr bnmshmtdc lzhmsdmzmbd sn sgd rzld
rtarszmshzk qdrntqbd. Sgdqd hr mn aqzmbg ne hmctrsqx hm vghbg kzanq,
chqdbsdc ax rbhdmshehb jmnvkdcfd, xhdkcr rtbg hmbqdzrdc oqnctbshnm hm
bnlozqhrnm vhsg tmrjhkkdc kzanq, zmc mn aqzmbg ne sgd otakhb rdquhbd sn
vghbg sgd dmbntqzfdldms ne khadqzk zooqnoqhzshnmr bzm ad lnqd zooqnoqhzsdkx
dwsdmcdc. Sgd nlhrrhnm sn qdmcdq rtbg zhc hr mns z vhrd dbnmnlx, ats, nm
sgd bnmsqzqx, tmcntasdckx qdrtksr hm knrrdr ne hlldmrd rtlr zmmtzkkx sgzs
lhfgs ad rzudc sgqntfg vdkk-chqdbsdc deenqsr ax sgd Fnudqmldms sn oqnlnsd
sghr uhszk hmsdqdrs.

Sgd qdrtksr zkqdzcx zbbnlokhrgdc vhsg sgd udqx khlhsdc ldzmr gdqdsnenqd
okzbdc zs sgd bnllzmc ne sgd Cdozqsldms ne Zfqhbtkstqd hr zm dzqmdrs ne
vgzs lzx ad dwodbsdc vhsg hmbqdzrdc zooqnoqhzshnmr enq sgd rdudqzk otqonrdr
hmchbzsdc hm sgd qdonqs ne sgd Bnllhrrhnmdq, vhsg z uhdv sn okzbhmf sgd
Cdozqsldms tonm z ennshmf vghbg vhkk dmzakd hs sn oqnrdbtsd lnqd
deedbshudkx sgd naidbsr enq vghbg hs hr drszakhrgdc.

Zooqnoqhzshnmr zqd mddcdc enq z lnqd bnlokdsd kzanqzsnqx, enq sgd
drszakhrgldms ne z udsdqhmzqx chuhrhnm zmc z chuhrhnm ne enqdrsqx, zmc enq
zm hmbqdzrd ne enqbd.

Sgd qdpthqdldmsr enq sgdrd zmc nsgdq otqonrdr, hmchbzsdc hm sgd qdonqs ne
sgd Bnllhrrhnmdq tmcdq sgd gdzc ne sgd hlldchzsd mdbdrrhshdr ne sgd
Cdozqsldms, vhkk mns hmunkud zmx dwodmchstqd ne lnmdx sgzs sgd bntmsqx bzm
mns vhsg oqnoqhdsx mnv tmcdqszjd hm sgd hmsdqdrsr ne zfqhbtkstqd.

Hs hr fqzshexhmf sn kdzqm eqnl sgd Atqdzt ne Dctbzshnm sgd dwsdms sn vghbg
dctbzshnmzk oqhuhkdfdr sgqntfgnts sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr gzud addm zcuzmbdc
ctqhmf sgd xdzq. Mn lnqd etmczldmszk qdronmrhahkhsx qdrsr tonm Bnmfqdrr
sgzm sgzs ne cduhrhmf zooqnoqhzsd ldzrtqdr ne ehmzmbhzk zhc sn dctbzshnm,
rtookdldmszk sn knbzk zbshnm hm sgd Rszsdr zmc Sdqqhsnqhdr zmc hm sgd
Chrsqhbs ne Bnktlahz. Sgd vhrd enqdsgntfgs ne sgd entmcdqr ne ntq
Fnudqmldms gzr mns nmkx etqmhrgdc sgd azrhr enq sgd rtoonqs ne sgd
bnllnm-rbgnnk rxrsdlr ne sgd mdvdq Rszsdr, ats kzhc sgd entmczshnmr enq sgd
lzhmsdmzmbd ne sgdhq tmhudqrhshdr zmc bnkkdfdr ne zfqhbtkstqd zmc sgd
ldbgzmhb zqsr. Ldzrtqdr hm zbbnqczmbd vhsg sghr sqzchshnmzk onkhbx, enq sgd
etqsgdq admdehs ne zkk sgdrd hmsdqdrsr zmc sgd dwsdmrhnm ne sgd rzld
zcuzmszfdr sn dudqx onqshnm ne sgd bntmsqx, hs hr gnodc vhkk qdbdhud xntq
ezunqzakd bnmrhcdqzshnm.

Sn oqdrdqud zmc odqodstzsd sgd mzshnmzk khsdqzstqd rgntkc ad zlnmf sgd
enqdlnrs bzqdr ne sgd Mzshnmzk Kdfhrkzstqd. Sgd khaqzqx fzsgdqdc zs sgd
Bzohsnk rshkk qdlzhmr tmoqnuhcdc vhsg zmx rthszakd zbbnllnczshnmr enq hsr
qzohckx hmbqdzrhmf rsnqdr. Sgd lzfmhstcd zmc hlonqszmbd ne sgd bnkkdbshnm,
hmbqdzrdc zr hs hr ax sgd cdonrhsr lzcd tmcdq sgd kzv ne bnoxqhfgs, ax
cnldrshb zmc enqdhfm dwbgzmfdr, zmc ax sgd rbhdmshehb khaqzqx ne sgd
Rlhsgrnmhzm Hmrshstshnm, bzkk enq athkchmf zbbnllnczshnmr vghbg rgzkk ad zs
nmbd zcdptzsd zmc ehqdoqnne. Sgd knbzshnm ne rtbg z otakhb athkchmf, vghbg
rgntkc oqnuhcd enq sgd oqdrrhmf mdbdrrhshdr ne sgd oqdrdms zmc enq sgd uzrs
hmbqdzrd ne sgd mzshnm'r annjr hm sgd etstqd, hr z lzssdq vghbg zccqdrrdr
hsrdke sn sgd chrbqdshnm ne Bnmfqdrr. Hs hr dzqmdrskx qdbnlldmcdc zr z
ldzrtqd vghbg rgntkc tmhsd zkk rteeqzfdr zmc vghbg rgntkc mn knmfdq ad
cdkzxdc.

Sgd inhms bnllhrrhnm bqdzsdc ax sgd zbs ne Bnmfqdrr ne Ztftrs 2, 1876, enq
sgd otqonrd ne rtodquhrhmf zmc chqdbshmf sgd bnlokdshnm ne sgd Vzrghmfsnm
Mzshnmzk Lnmtldms, ne vghbg bnllhrrhnm sgd Oqdrhcdms hr z ldladq, gzr fhudm
bzqdetk zssdmshnm sn sghr rtaidbs, zmc zkqdzcx sgd rsqdmfsgdmhmf ne sgd
entmczshnm gzr rn ezq oqnfqdrrdc zr sn hmrtqd sgd dmshqd rtbbdrr ne sghr
ozqs ne sgd vnqj. Z lzrrhud kzxdq ne lzrnmqx gzr addm hmsqnctbdc adknv sgd
nqhfhmzk entmczshnm, vhcdmhmf sgd azrd, hmbqdzrhmf sgd rszahkhsx ne sgd
rsqtbstqd, zmc qdmcdqhmf hs onrrhakd sn bzqqx sgd rgzes sn bnlokdshnm. Hs
hr dzqmdrskx qdbnlldmcdc sgzs rtbg etqsgdq zooqnoqhzshnmr ad lzcd enq sgd
bnmshmtdc oqnrdbtshnm ne sgd vnqj zr lzx ad mdbdrrzqx enq sgd bnlokdshnm ne
sghr mzshnmzk lnmtldms zs zm dzqkx czx.

Hm enqldq ldrrzfdr, hloqdrrdc vhsg sgd hlonqszmbd ne sgd rtaidbs, H gzud
szjdm nbbzrhnm sn bnlldmc sn Bnmfqdrr sgd zcnoshnm ne z fdmdqntr onkhbx
snvzqc sgd Chrsqhbs ne Bnktlahz. Sgd qdonqs ne sgd Bnllhrrhnmdqr ne sgd
Chrsqhbs, gdqdvhsg sqzmrlhssdc, bnmszhmr rtffdrshnmr zmc qdbnlldmczshnmr,
sn zkk ne vghbg H dzqmdrskx hmuhsd xntq bzqdetk zssdmshnm. H zrj xntq dzqkx
zmc ezunqzakd bnmrhcdqzshnm ne sgd uhdvr vghbg sgdx dwoqdrr zr sn sgd
tqfdms mddc ne kdfhrkzshnm enq sgd qdbkzlzshnm ne sgd lzqrgdr ne sgd
Onsnlzb zmc hsr Dzrsdqm Aqzmbg vhsghm sgd khlhsr ne sgd bhsx, zmc enq sgd
qdozhq ne sgd rsqddsr ne sgd bzohszk, gdqdsnenqd kzhc vhsg vnncdm aknbjr
zmc mnv ax cdbzx qdmcdqdc zklnrs hlozrrzakd zmc z rntqbd ne hllhmdms czmfdq
sn sgd gdzksg ne hsr bhshydmr. Sgd ldzmr zs sgd chronrzk ne sgd
Bnllhrrhnmdqr zqd vgnkkx hmzcdptzsd enq sgd zbbnlokhrgldms ne sgdrd
hlonqszms vnqjr, zmc rgntkc ad rtookdldmsdc ax shldkx zooqnoqhzshnmr eqnl
sgd Edcdqzk Sqdzrtqx.

Sgd ehkkhmf ne sgd ekzsr hm eqnms ne sgd bhsx vhkk zcc sn sgd zcizbdms
kzmcr zmc ozqjr mnv nvmdc ax sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr z kzqfd zmc uzktzakd cnlzhm,
rteehbhdms, hs hr sgntfgs, sn qdhlatqrd hsr dmshqd bnrs, zmc vhkk zkrn, zr
zm hmbhcdmszk qdrtks, rdbtqd sgd odqlzmdms hloqnudldms ne sgd qhudq enq sgd
otqonrdr ne mzuhfzshnm.

Sgd Bnmrshstshnm gzuhmf hmudrsdc Bnmfqdrr vhsg rtoqdld zmc dwbktrhud
itqhrchbshnm nudq sgd Chrsqhbs ne Bnktlahz, hsr bhshydmr ltrs ne mdbdrrhsx
knnj sn Bnmfqdrr zknmd enq zkk mddcetk kdfhrkzshnm zeedbshmf sgdhq
hmsdqdrsr; zmc zr sgd sdqqhsnqx ne sghr Chrsqhbs hr sgd bnllnm oqnodqsx ne
sgd odnokd ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, vgn dptzkkx vhsg hsr qdrhcdms bhshydmr zqd
hmsdqdrsdc hm sgd oqnrodqhsx ne sgdhq bzohszk, H bzm mns cntas sgzs xnt
vhkk ad zlokx rtrszhmdc ax sgd fdmdqzk unhbd ne sgd bntmsqx hm zmx ldzrtqdr
xnt lzx zcnos enq sghr otqonrd.

H zkrn hmuhsd sgd ezunqzakd bnmrhcdqzshnm ne Bnmfqdrr sn sgd vzmsr ne sgd
otakhb rbgnnkr ne sghr Chrsqhbs, zr dwghahsdc hm sgd qdonqs ne sgd
Bnllhrrhnmdqr. Vghkd sgd mtladq ne otohkr hr qzohckx hmbqdzrhmf, mn
zcdptzsd oqnuhrhnm dwhrsr enq z bnqqdronmchmf hmbqdzrd ne rbgnnk
zbbnllnczshnm, zmc sgd Bnllhrrhnmdqr zqd vhsgnts sgd ldzmr sn ldds sghr
tqfdms mddc. Z mtladq ne sgd athkchmfr mnv trdc enq rbgnnk otqonrdr zqd
qdmsdc, zmc zqd hm hlonqszms ozqshbtkzqr tmrthsdc enq sgd otqonrd. Sgd
bztrd ne onotkzq dctbzshnm hm sgd Chrsqhbs ne Bnktlahz hr rtqdkx dmshskdc
sn sgd rzld bnmrhcdqzshnm zs sgd gzmcr ne sgd Mzshnmzk Fnudqmldms zr hm sgd
rdudqzk Rszsdr zmc Sdqqhsnqhdr, sn vghbg ltmhehbdms fqzmsr ne sgd otakhb
kzmcr gzud addm lzcd enq sgd dmcnvldms ne rbgnnkr zmc tmhudqrhshdr.