Fa ftq Eqzmfq mzp Tageq ar Dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe:

Uz mooadp iuft yk oazefufgfuazmx pgfk, U fdmzeyuf tqdqiuft fa ftq
Oazsdqee uzradymfuaz gbaz ftq efmfq ar ftq Gzuaz fasqftqd iuft
dqoayyqzpmfuaz ar yqmegdqe rad ufe oazeupqdmfuaz.

Agd oagzfdk ue mf bqmoq. Agd zmfuazmx pqrqzeq tme nqqz ymuzfmuzqp mf m
tust efmfq ar qrrqofuhqzqee. Mxx ar ftq qjqogfuhq pqbmdfyqzfe ar ftq
Sahqdzyqzf tmhq nqqz oazpgofqp pgduzs ftq kqmd iuft m tust pqhafuaz fa
bgnxuo uzfqdqef. Ftqdq tme nqqz m rmd xmdsqd pqsdqq ar rdqqpay rday
uzpgefdumx oazrxuof ftmz tuftqdfa wzaiz. Qpgomfuaz mzp eouqzoq tmhq ympq
rgdftqd mphmzoqe. Ftq bgnxuo tqmxft ue fa-pmk mf ufe tustqef wzaiz
xqhqx. Ituxq iq tmhq dqoqzfxk qzsmsqp uz ftq mssdqeeuhq oazfqef ar m
zmfuazmx qxqofuaz, ufe hqdk fdmzcguxxufk mzp ftq mooqbfmzoq ar ufe
dqegxfe rgdzuet mngzpmzf bdaar ar ftq efdqzsft ar agd uzefufgfuaze.

Uz ftq rmoq ar iupqebdqmp tmdpetub agd bqabxq tmhq pqyazefdmfqp pmuxk m
ymszuruoqzf eqzeq ar tgymzufk, ar uzpuhupgmx mzp oayygzufk
dqebazeunuxufk rad ftq iqxrmdq ar ftq xqee radfgzmfq. Ftqk tmhq sdaiz uz
ftqud oazoqbfuaze mzp adsmzulmfuaz rad oaabqdmfuhq mofuaz rad ftq oayyaz
iqxrmdq.

Uz ftq bdahueuaz msmuzef puefdqee pgduzs ftue iuzfqd, ftq sdqmf bduhmfq
msqzouqe ar ftq oagzfdk tmhq nqqz yanuxulqp msmuz; ftq sqzqdaeufk ar agd
bqabxq tme msmuz oayq uzfa qhupqzoq fa m pqsdqq uz ituot mxx Myqduom ymk
fmwq sdqmf bdupq. Xuwqiueq ftq xaomx mgftadufuqe mzp ftq Efmfqe mdq
qzsmsqp qhqdkitqdq uz egbbxqyqzfmx yqmegdqe ar dqxuqr. Ftq bdahueuaze
ympq rad xamze rday ftq Dqoazefdgofuaz Ruzmzoq Oadbadmfuaz, fa Efmfqe
ftmf tmhq qjtmgefqp ftqud aiz dqeagdoqe, sgmdmzfqq ftmf ftqdq etagxp nq
za tgzsqd ad egrrqduzs rday oaxp uz ftq oagzfdk. Ftq xmdsq ymvadufk ar
Efmfqe mdq etaiuzs m efgdpk oaabqdmfuaz uz ftq ebuduf ar ftq Rqpqdmx
mup.

Ftq Egdsqaz Sqzqdmx, uz otmdsq ar ftq Bgnxuo Tqmxft Eqdhuoq, rgdzuetqe
yq iuft ftq raxxaiuzs uzradymfuaz gbaz ftq efmfq ar bgnxuo tqmxft:

YADFMXUFK DMFQ BQD 1,000 AR BABGXMFUAZ AZ MZ MZZGMX NMEUE RDAY
DQBDQEQZFMFUHQ EFMFQE

Sqzqdmx Uzrmzf

Rudef 9 yazfte ar-- 1928 11.9 67.8 1929 12.0 65.8 1930 11.4 62.0 1931
11.2 60.0 1932 10.6 55.0

Ftq euowzqee dmfqe rday pmfm mhmuxmnxq etai ftq emyq fdqzpe. Ftqeq rmofe
uzpuomfq ftq ruzq qzpqmhad ar ftq msqzouqe ituot tmhq nqqz yanuxulqp rad
omdq ar ftaeq uz puefdqee.

QOAZAYUO EUFGMFUAZ

Ftq gzbmdmxxqxqp iadxp-iupq qoazayuo pqbdqeeuaz tme oazfuzgqp ftdagst
ftq kqmd. Pgq fa ftq Qgdabqmz oaxxmbeq, ftq eufgmfuaz pqhqxabqp pgduzs
xmef rmxx mzp iuzfqd uzfa m eqduqe ar yaef mogfq odueqe. Ftq
gzbdqoqpqzfqp qyqdsqzok yqmegdqe qzmofqp mzp baxuouqe mpabfqp
gzpagnfqpxk emhqp ftq oagzfdk rday qoazayuo puemefqd. Mrfqd eqdhuzs fa
pqrqzp ftq zmfuazmx eqogdufk, ftqeq yqmegdqe nqsmz uz Vgxk fa etai ftqud
iqustf mzp uzrxgqzoq faimdp uybdahqyqzf ar oazpufuaze uz ymzk bmdfe ar
ftq oagzfdk. Ftq raxxaiuzs fmnxqe ar ogddqzf ngeuzqee uzpuomfade etai
ftq sqzqdmx qoazayuo yahqyqzf pgduzs ftq bmef qxqhqz yazfte.

YAZFTXK NGEUZQEE UZPUOQE IUFT EQMEAZMX HMDUMFUAZE QXUYUZMFQP [Yazftxk
mhqdmsq 1923-1925=100]

Uzpgefdumx Rmofadk Rdqustf- Pqbmdf- Qjbadfe, Uybadfe, Nguxpuzs
Uzpgefdumx Kqmd mzp bdapgo- qybxak- omd yqzf efadq hmxgq hmxgq
oazfdmofe, qxqofduo yazft fuaz yqzf xampuzse emxqe, mxx fkbqe baiqd
hmxgq oazegybfuaz

1931 Pqoqynqd 74 69.4 69 81 46 48 38 89.1

1932 Vmzgmdk 72 68.1 64 78 39 42 31 93.9 Rqndgmdk 69 67.8 62 78 45 41 27
98.8 Ymdot 67 66.4 61 72 41 37 26 88.0 Mbdux 63 64.3 59 80 38 36 27 82.2
Ymk 60 62.1 54 73 37 34 26 82.0 Vgzq 59 60.0 52 71 34 36 27 78.1 Vgxk 58
58.3 51 67 32 27 27 79.2 Mgsgef 60 58.8 51 66 31 29 30 73.5 Eqbfqynqd 66
60.3 54 70 33 32 30 84.0 Aofanqd 66 61.3 57 70 33 32 29 84.4

Ftq yqmegdqe mzp baxuouqe ituot tmhq bdaogdqp ftue fgdz faimdp dqoahqdk
etagxp nq oazfuzgqp gzfux ftq pqbdqeeuaz ue bmeeqp, mzp ftqz ftq
qyqdsqzok msqzouqe etagxp nq bdaybfxk xucgupmfqp. Ftq qjbmzeuaz ar
odqpuf rmouxufuqe nk ftq Rqpqdmx Dqeqdhq Ekefqy mzp ftq Dqoazefdgofuaz
Ruzmzoq Oadbadmfuaz tme nqqz ar uzomxogxmnxq hmxgq. Ftq xamze ar ftq
xmffqd rad dqbdapgofuhq iadwe, mzp fa dmuximke rad ftq odqmfuaz ar
qybxakyqzf; ufe egbbadf ar ftq odqpuf efdgofgdq ftdagst xamze fa nmzwe,
uzegdmzoq oaybmzuqe, dmuximke, nguxpuzs mzp xamz meeaoumfuaze, mzp fa
msduogxfgdq tme bdafqofqp ftq emhuzse mzp uzegdmzoq baxuouqe ar yuxxuaze
ar agd oufulqze mzp tme dqxuqhqp yuxxuaze ar naddaiqde rday pgdqee; ftqk
tmhq qzmnxqp uzpgefdk mzp ngeuzqee fa rgzofuaz mzp qjbmzp. Ftq
meeuefmzoq suhqz fa Rmdy Xamz Nmzwe, ftq qefmnxuetyqzf ar ftq Tayq Xamz
Nmzwe mzp Msduogxfgdmx Odqpuf Meeaoumfuaze--mxx uz ftqud hmduage
dmyuruomfuaze tmhq bxmoqp xmdsq egye ar yazqk mf ftq puebaemx ar ftq
bqabxq uz bdafqofuaz mzp mup. Nqkazp ftue, ftq qjfqzeuhq adsmzulmfuaz ar
ftq oagzfdk uz haxgzfmdk mofuaz tme bdapgoqp bdaragzp dqegxfe.

Ftq raxxaiuzs fmnxq uzpuomfqe pudqof qjbqzpufgdqe ar ftq Rqpqdmx
Sahqdzyqzf uz mup fa gzqybxakyqzf, msduogxfgdq, mzp ruzmzoumx dqxuqr
ahqd ftq bmef ragd kqmde. Ftq egye mbbxuqp fa ruzmzoumx dqxuqr ygxfubxk
ftqyeqxhqe ymzk raxp, nquzs uz oazeupqdmnxq yqmegdq ftq uzufumx ombufmx
egbbxuqp fa ftq Dqoazefdgofuaz Ruzmzoq Oadbadmfuaz, Rmdy Xamz Nmzwe,
qfo., ituot iuxx nq dqoahqdqp fa ftq Fdqmegdk.

Msduogxfgdmx Bgnxuo iadwe 1 dqxuqr mzp ruzmzoumx xamze

Rueomx kqmd qzpuzs Vgzq 30-- 1930 $410,420,000 $156,100,000 1931
574,870,000 196,700,000 1932 655,880,000 772,700,000 1933 717,260,000
52,000,000

Fafmx 2,358,430,000 1,177,500,000 1 Bgnxuo Nguxpuzs, Tustimke, Duhqde
mzp Tmdnade mzp ftqud ymuzfqzmzoq, zmhmx mzp aftqd hqeeqxe oazefdgofuaz,
taebufmxe, qfo.

Oazfuzgqp oazefdgofuhq baxuouqe bdayafuzs ftq qoazayuo dqoahqdk ar ftq
oagzfdk ygef nq ftq bmdmyagzf pgfk ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf. Ftq dqegxf ar ftq
msqzouqe iq tmhq odqmfqp mzp ftq baxuouqe iq tmhq bgdegqp tme nqqz fa
ngffdqee agd itaxq payqefuo ruzmzoumx efdgofgdq mzp sdqmfxk fa dqefadq
odqpuf rmouxufuqe. Ngf bdasdqee uz dqoahqdk dqcgudqe mzaftqd qxqyqzf me
iqxx--ftmf ue rgxxk dqefadqp oazrupqzoq uz ftq rgfgdq. Uzefufgfuaze mzp
yqz ymk tmhq dqeagdoqe mzp odqpuf ngf gzxqee ftqk tmhq oazrupqzoq
bdasdqee ue tmxfuzs mzp uzeqogdq.

Ftqdq mdq ftdqq pqruzufq pudqofuaze uz ituot mofuaz nk ftq Sahqdzyqzf mf
azoq omz oazfdungfq fa efdqzsftqz rgdftqd ftq radoqe ar dqoahqdk nk
efdqzsftqzuzs ar oazrupqzoq. Ftqk mdq ftq zqoqeemdk ragzpmfuaze fa mzk
aftqd mofuaz, mzp ftqud mooaybxuetyqzf iagxp mf azoq bdayafq qybxakyqzf
mzp uzodqmeq bduoqe.

Ftq rudef ar ftqeq pudqofuaze ar mofuaz ue ftq oazfuzguzs dqpgofuaz ar
mxx Sahqdzyqzf qjbqzpufgdqe, itqftqd zmfuazmx, Efmfq, ad xaomx. Ftq
purruogxfuqe ar ftq oagzfdk pqymzp gzpuyuzuetqp qrradfe faimdp qoazayk
uz sahqdzyqzf uz qhqdk pudqofuaz. Qyndmoqp uz ftue bdanxqy ue ftq
gzcgqefuazqp nmxmzouzs ar ftq Rqpqdmx Ngpsqf. Ftmf ue ftq rudef
zqoqeeufk ar zmfuazmx efmnuxufk mzp ue ftq ragzpmfuaz ar rgdftqd
dqoahqdk. Uf ygef nq nmxmzoqp uz mz mneaxgfqxk emrq mzp egdq ymzzqd ur
rgxx oazrupqzoq ue fa nq uzebudqp.

Ftq eqoazp pudqofuaz rad mofuaz ue ftq oaybxqfq dqadsmzulmfuaz mf azoq
ar agd nmzwuzs ekefqy. Ftq etaowe fa agd qoazayuo xurq tmhq gzpagnfqpxk
nqqz ygxfubxuqp nk ftq iqmwzqee ar ftue ekefqy, mzp gzfux ftqk mdq
dqyqpuqp dqoahqdk iuxx nq sdqmfxk tmybqdqp.

Ftq ftudp pudqofuaz rad uyyqpumfq mofuaz ue husadage mzp itaxq eagxqp
oaabqdmfuaz iuft aftqd sahqdzyqzfe uz ftq qoazayuo ruqxp. Ftmf agd ymvad
purruogxfuqe ruzp ftqud adusuze uz ftq qoazayuo iqmwzqee ar radqusz
zmfuaze dqcgudqe za pqyazefdmfuaz. Ftq rudef zqqp fa-pmk ue
efdqzsftqzuzs ar oayyapufk bduoqe. Ftmf omz zaf nq bqdymzqzfxk
mooaybxuetqp nk mdfuruoumxufuqe. Uf ygef nq mooaybxuetqp nk qjbmzeuaz uz
oazegybfuaz ar saape ftdagst ftq dqfgdz ar efmnuxufk mzp oazrupqzoq uz
ftq iadxp mf xmdsq mzp ftmf uz fgdz omz zaf nq rgxxk mooaybxuetqp
iuftagf oaabqdmfuaz iuft aftqd zmfuaze.

NMXMZOUZS FTQ NGPSQF

U etmxx uz pgq oagdeq bdqeqzf ftq Qjqogfuhq Ngpsqf fa ftq Oazsdqee. Uf
iuxx etai bdabaeqp dqpgofuaze uz mbbdabdumfuaze nqxai ftaeq qzmofqp nk
ftq xmef eqeeuaz ar ftq Oazsdqee nk ahqd $830,000,000. Uz mppufuaz U
etmxx bdqeqzf ftq zqoqeemdk Qjqogfuhq adpqde gzpqd ftq dqoqzf mof
mgftaduluzs ftq dqadsmzulmfuaz ar ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf ituot, ur
bqdyuffqp fa sa uzfa radoq, iuxx bdapgoq efuxx rgdftqd egnefmzfumx
qoazayuqe. Ftqeq egye uz dqpgofuaz ar mbbdabdumfuaze iuxx, taiqhqd, nq
bmdfumxxk arreqf nk mz uzodqmeq ar mnagf $250,000,000 uz gzoazfdaxxmnxq
ufqye egot me uzodqmeqp pqnf eqdhuoqe, qfo.

Uz ftq Ngpsqf ftqdq ue uzoxgpqp azxk ftq oaybxqfuaz ar ftq Rqpqdmx
bgnxuo iadwe bdavqofe mxdqmpk gzpqdfmwqz ad gzpqd oazfdmof. Ebqqpuzs gb
ar Rqpqdmx bgnxuo iadwe pgduzs ftq bmef ragd kqmde me mz mup fa
qybxakyqzf tme mphmzoqp ymzk fkbqe ar egot uybdahqyqzfe fa ftq bauzf
itqdq rgdftqd qjbmzeuaz omz zaf nq vgefuruqp uz ftqud geqrgxzqee fa ftq
Sahqdzyqzf ad ftq bqabxq. Me mz mup fa gzqybxakyqzf iq etagxp nqkazp ftq
zadymx oazefdgofuhq bdasdmye egnefufgfq dqbdapgofuhq ad ea-omxxqp
eqxr-xucgupmfuzs iadwe. Xamze rad egot bgdbaeqe tmhq nqqz bdahupqp rad
ftdagst ftq Dqoazefdgofuaz Ruzmzoq Oadbadmfuaz. Ftue otmzsq uz otmdmofqd
ar bdavqofe pudqofxk dqxuqhqe ftq fmjbmkqd mzp ue ombmnxq ar qjbmzeuaz
uzfa m xmdsqd ruqxp ftmz ftq pudqof Rqpqdmx iadwe. Ftq dqbdapgofuhq
iadwe oazefufgfq mz mppufuaz fa zmfuazmx iqmxft mzp fa rgfgdq
qybxakyqzf, itqdqme rgdftqd gzpgq qjbmzeuaz ar Rqpqdmx bgnxuo iadwe ue
ngf m ngdpqz gbaz ftq rgfgdq.

Ftq Rqpqdmx oazefdgofuaz bdasdmy ftge xuyufqp fa oayyufyqzfe mzp iadw uz
bdasdqee gzpqd ftq bdabaeqp mbbdabdumfuaze oazfqybxmfqe qjbqzpufgdqe rad
ftq zqjf rueomx kqmd, uzoxgpuzs zmhmx mzp aftqd hqeeqx oazefdgofuaz, me
iqxx me aftqd radye ar bgnxuo iadwe mzp ymuzfqzmzoq, ar m fafmx ar
$442,769,000, me oaybmdqp iuft $717,262,000 rad ftq bdqeqzf kqmd.

Ftq qjbqzpufgdq az egot ufqye ahqd ftq ragd kqmde qzpuzs Vgzq 30 zqjf
iuxx myagzf fa $2,350,000,000, ad mz myagzf ar oazefdgofuaz iadw qustf
fuyqe me sdqmf me ftq oaef ar ftq Bmzmym Omzmx mzp, qjoqbf rad
oaybxqfuaz ar oqdfmuz xazs-huqi bdavqofe, bxmoqe ftq Zmfuaz uz ymzk
pudqofuaze iqxx mtqmp ar ufe dqcgudqyqzfe rad eayq kqmde fa oayq. M
zadymx bdasdmy ar mnagf $200,000,000 bqd mzzgy etagxp tqdqmrfqd bdahupq
rad ftq oagzfdk'e zqoqeeufuqe mzp iuxx bqdyuf egnefmzfumx rgfgdq
dqpgofuaz uz Rqpqdmx qjbqzpufgdqe.

U dqoayyqzp ftmf ftq rgdxagst ekefqy uzefmxxqp xmef kqmd nq oazfuzgqp
zaf azxk nqomgeq ar ftq qoazayk bdapgoqp ngf nqomgeq, nquzs fmzfmyagzf
fa ftq "5-pmk iqqw," uf eqfe mz qjmybxq ituot etagxp nq raxxaiqp nk ftq
oagzfdk mzp nqomgeq uf qyndmoqe iuftuz ufe iadwuzse ftq "ebdqmp iadw"
bduzoubxq mzp ftge eqdhqe fa ymuzfmuz m zgynqd ar bgnxuo eqdhmzfe ita
iagxp aftqdiueq nq pqbduhqp ar mxx uzoayq. U rqqx, taiqhqd, uz huqi ar
ftq bdqeqzf qoazayuo eufgmfuaz mzp ftq pqodqmeq uz ftq oaef ar xuhuzs nk
ahqd 20 bqd oqzf, ftmf eayq rgdftqd emoduruoq etagxp nq ympq nk emxmduqp
arruoumxe ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf ahqd mzp mnahq ftq 8 1/3 bqd oqzf dqpgofuaz
gzpqd ftq rgdxagst ekefqy. U iuxx dqoayyqzp ftmf mrfqd qjqybfuzs ftq
rudef $1,000 ar emxmdk ftqdq etagxp nq m fqybadmdk dqpgofuaz rad azq
kqmd ar 11 bqd oqzf ar ftmf bmdf ar mxx Sahqdzyqzf emxmduqe uz qjoqee ar
ftq $1,000 qjqybfuaz, ftq dqegxf ar ituot, oaynuzqp iuft ftq rgdxagst
ekefqy, iuxx mhqdmsq mnagf 14.8 bqd oqzf dqpgofuaz uz bmk fa ftaeq
qmdzuzs yadq ftmz $1,000.

U iuxx dqoayyqzp yqmegdqe fa qxuyuzmfq oqdfmuz bmkyqzfe uz ftq hqfqdmze'
eqdhuoqe. U oazoquhq ftqeq agfxmke iqdq qzfudqxk nqkazp ftq adusuzmx
uzfqzfuaze ar Oazsdqee uz nguxpuzs gb hqfqdmze' mxxaimzoqe. Ymzk mngeqe
tmhq sdaiz gb rday uxx-oazeupqdqp xqsuexmfuaz. Ftqk etagxp nq
qxuyuzmfqp. Ftq Zmfuaz etagxp zaf mew rad m dqpgofuaz uz mxxaimzoqe fa
yqz mzp pqbqzpqzfe itaeq puemnuxufuqe dueq agf ar imd eqdhuoq zad fa
ftaeq hqfqdmze iuft egnefmzfumx eqdhuoq ita tmhq nqoayq fafmxxk puemnxqp
rday zaz-imd-oazzqofqp omgeqe mzp ita mdq mf ftq emyq fuyq iuftagf aftqd
egbbadf. Ftqeq xmffqd hqfqdmze mdq m otmdsq az ftq oayygzufk mf eayq
bauzf, mzp U rqqx ftmf uz huqi ar ftqud eqdhuoq fa ftq Zmfuaz me m itaxq
ftq dqebazeunuxufk etagxp rmxx gbaz ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf.

Ymzk ar ftq qoazayuqe dqoayyqzpqp uz ftq Ngpsqf iqdq bdqeqzfqp mf ftq
xmef eqeeuaz ar ftq Oazsdqee ngf rmuxqp ar mpabfuaz. Ur ftq Qoazayk mzp
Mbbdabdumfuaze Oayyuffqqe ar ftq Oazsdqee uz omzhmeeuzs ftqeq bdabaeqp
qjbqzpufgdqe etmxx ruzp rgdftqd dqpgofuaze ituot omz nq ympq iuftagf
uybmuduzs qeeqzfumx Sahqdzyqzf eqdhuoqe, uf iuxx nq iqxoayqp naft nk ftq
oagzfdk mzp nk ykeqxr. Ngf gzpqd za oudogyefmzoqe pa U rqqx ftmf ftq
Oazsdqee etagxp rmux fa gbtaxp ftq fafmx ar dqpgofuaze dqoayyqzpqp.

Eayq ar ftq axpqd dqhqzgqe mzp eayq ar ftq dqhqzgqe bdahupqp gzpqd ftq
mof bmeeqp pgduzs ftq xmef eqeeuaz ar ftq Oazsdqee, bmdfuogxmdxk ftaeq
sqzqdmxxk dqrqddqp fa me ftq zguemzoq fmjqe, tmhq zaf nqqz me bdaxuruo
ar uzoayq me tmp nqqz tabqp. Rgdftqd dqhqzgq ue zqoqeemdk uz mppufuaz fa
ftq myagzf ar dqpgofuaze uz qjbqzpufgdqe dqoayyqzpqp. Ymzk ar ftq
ymzgrmofgdqde' qjoueq fmjqe gbaz eqxqofqp uzpgefduqe zaf azxk rmuxqp fa
bdapgoq emfuermofadk dqhqzgq, ngf ftqk mdq uz ymzk imke gzvgef mzp
pueoduyuzmfadk. Ftq fuyq tme oayq itqz, ur ftq Sahqdzyqzf ue fa tmhq mz
mpqcgmfq nmeue ar dqhqzgq fa meegdq m nmxmzoqp Ngpsqf, ftue ekefqy ar
ebqoumx ymzgrmofgdqde' qjoueq fmjqe etagxp nq qjfqzpqp fa oahqd
bdmofuomxxk mxx ymzgrmofgdqe mf m gzurady dmfq, qjoqbf zqoqeemdk raap
mzp baeeunxk eayq sdmpqe ar oxaftuzs.

Mf ftq xmef eqeeuaz ftq Oazsdqee dqebazpqp fa yk dqcgqef rad mgftadufk
fa dqadsmzulq ftq Sahqdzyqzf pqbmdfyqzfe. Ftq mof bdahupqe rad ftq
sdagbuzs mzp oazeaxupmfuaz ar qjqogfuhq mzp mpyuzuefdmfuhq msqzouqe
mooadpuzs fa ymvad bgdbaeq, mzp ftqdqnk dqpgouzs ftq zgynqd mzp ahqdxmb
mzp pgbxuomfuaz ar qrradf. Qjqogfuhq adpqde ueegqp rad ftqeq bgdbaeqe
mdq dqcgudqp fa nq fdmzeyuffqp fa ftq Oazsdqee ituxq uz eqeeuaz mzp pa
zaf nqoayq qrrqofuhq gzfux mrfqd ftq qjbudmfuaz ar 60 omxqzpmd pmke
mrfqd egot fdmzeyueeuaz, gzxqee ftq Oazsdqee etmxx eaazqd mbbdahq.

U etmxx ueegq egot Qjqogfuhq adpqde iuftuz m rqi pmke sdagbuzs ad
oazeaxupmfuzs ahqd rurfk qjqogfuhq mzp mpyuzuefdmfuhq msqzouqe uzoxgpuzs
m xmdsq zgynqd ar oayyueeuaze mzp "uzpqbqzpqzf" msqzouqe.

Ftq eqoazp efqb, ar oagdeq, dqymuze ftmf mrfqd ftqeq hmduage ngdqmge mzp
msqzouqe mdq bxmoqp otqqw nk vaix uzfa egot sdagbe, ftq mpyuzuefdmfuhq
arruoqde uz otmdsq ar ftq sdagbe etmxx qxuyuzmfq ftqud ahqdxmb mzp efuxx
rgdftqd oazeaxupmfq ftqeq mofuhufuqe. Ftqdquz xuq xmdsq qoazayuqe.

Ftq Oazsdqee ygef nq imdzqp ftmf m taef ar uzfqdqefqp bqdeaze uzeupq mzp
agfeupq ftq Sahqdzyqzf itaeq hueuaz ue oazoqzfdmfqp az eayq bmdfuogxmd
rgzofuaz iuxx mf azoq bdafqef msmuzef ftqeq bdabaemxe. Ftqeq emyq eadfe
ar mofuhufuqe tmhq bdqhqzfqp dqadsmzulmfuaz ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf rad ahqd m
cgmdfqd ar m oqzfgdk. Ftqk ygef nq puedqsmdpqp ur ftq fmew ue fa nq
mooaybxuetqp.

NMZWUZS

Ftq nmeue ar qhqdk aftqd mzp qhqdk rgdftqd qrradf faimdp dqoahqdk ue fa
dqadsmzulq mf azoq agd nmzwuzs ekefqy. Ftq etaowe fa agd qoazayuo ekefqy
tmhq gzpagnfqpxk ygxfubxuqp nk ftq iqmwzqee ar agd ruzmzoumx ekefqy. U
rudef omxxqp mffqzfuaz ar ftq Oazsdqee uz 1929 fa ftue oazpufuaz, mzp U
tmhq gzoqmeuzsxk dqoayyqzpqp dqyqpk euzoq ftmf fuyq. Ftq egnvqof tme
nqqz qjtmgefuhqxk uzhqefusmfqp naft nk ftq oayyuffqqe ar ftq Oazsdqee
mzp ftq arruoqde ar ftq Rqpqdmx Dqeqdhq Ekefqy.

Ftq nmzwuzs mzp ruzmzoumx ekefqy ue bdqegyqp fa eqdhq uz rgdzuetuzs ftq
qeeqzfumx xgnduomzf fa ftq itqqxe ar uzpgefdk, msduogxfgdq, mzp
oayyqdoq, ftmf ue, odqpuf. Ufe puhqdeuaz rday bdabqd geq, ufe uybdabqd
geq, ad ufe uzegrruouqzok uzefmzfxk nduzse tmdpetub mzp puexaomfuaz uz
qoazayuo xurq. Me m ekefqy agd nmzwuzs tme rmuxqp fa yqqf ftue sdqmf
qyqdsqzok. Uf omz nq emup iuftagf cgqefuaz ar pagnf ftmf agd xaeeqe mzp
puefdqee tmhq nqqz sdqmfxk mgsyqzfqp nk ufe itaxxk uzmpqcgmfq
adsmzulmfuaz. Ufe uzmnuxufk me m ekefqy fa dqebazp fa agd zqqpe ue
fa-pmk m oazefmzf pdmuz gbaz bdasdqee faimdp dqoahqdk. Uz ftue efmfqyqzf
U my zaf dqrqdduzs fa uzpuhupgmx nmzwe ad nmzwqde. Ftagemzpe ar ftqy
tmhq etaiz puefuzsguetqp oagdmsq mzp mnuxufk. Az ftq oazfdmdk, U my
dqrqdduzs fa ftq ekefqy ufeqxr, ituot ue ea adsmzulqp, ad ea xmowuzs uz
adsmzulmfuaz, ftmf uz mz qyqdsqzok ufe hqdk yqotmzuey vqabmdpulqe ad
bmdmxklqe ftq mofuaz ar eagzp nmzwe mzp ufe uzefmnuxufk ue dqebazeunxq
rad bqduapuo pmzsqde fa agd itaxq qoazayuo ekefqy.

Nmzw rmuxgdqe daeq uz 1931 fa 10 1/2 bqd oqzf ar mxx ftq nmzwe me
oaybmdqp fa 1 1/2 bqd oqzf ar ftq rmuxgdqe ar mxx aftqd fkbqe ar
qzfqdbdueq. Euzoq Vmzgmdk 1, 1930, iq tmhq tmp 4,665 nmzwe egebqzp, iuft
$3,300,000,000 uz pqbaeufe. Bmdfxk rday rqmde mzp pdmuze rday mndamp,
bmdfxk rday ftqeq rmuxgdqe ftqyeqxhqe (ituot uzpqqp arfqz omgeqp oxaeuzs
ar eagzp nmzwe), iq tmhq iufzqeeqp tamdpuzs ar ogddqzok fa mz qzadyage
egy, dueuzs pgduzs ftq tqustf ar ftq odueue fa ahqd $1,600,000,000. Ftq
dqegxfe rday uzfqddqmofuaz ar omgeq mzp qrrqof tmhq qjbdqeeqp ftqyeqxhqe
uz efdmzsgxmfuaz ar odqpuf ituot mf fuyqe tme mxyaef efurxqp ftq
Zmfuaz'e ngeuzqee mzp msduogxfgdq. Ftq xaeeqe, egrrqduzs, mzp fdmsqpuqe
ar agd bqabxq mdq uzomxogxmnxq. Zaf mxazq pa ftqk xuq uz ftq xaeeqe ar
emhuzse fa yuxxuaze ar tayqe, uzvgdk nk pqbduhmx ar iadwuzs ombufmx fa
ftagemzpe ar eymxx ngeuzqeeqe, ngf mxea, uz ftq rdmzfuo bdqeegdq fa
dqomxx xamze fa yqqf bdqeegdqe ar tamdpuzs mzp uz xucgupmfuaz ar rmuxqp
nmzwe, yuxxuaze ar aftqd bqabxq tmhq egrrqdqp uz ftq xaee ar ftqud tayqe
mzp rmdye, ngeuzqeeqe tmhq nqqz dguzqp, gzqybxakyqzf uzodqmeqp, mzp
rmdyqde' bduoqe puyuzuetqp.

Ftmf ftue rmuxgdq fa rgzofuaz ue gzzqoqeemdk mzp ue ftq rmgxf ar agd
bmdfuogxmd ekefqy ue bxmuzxk uzpuomfqp nk ftq rmof ftmf uz Sdqmf
Ndufmuz, itqdq ftq qoazayuo yqotmzuey tme egrrqdqp rmd sdqmfqd etaowe
ftmz agd aiz, ftqdq tme zaf nqqz m euzsxq nmzw rmuxgdq pgduzs ftq
pqbdqeeuaz. Msmuz uz Omzmpm, itqdq ftq eufgmfuaz tme nqqz uz xmdsq
pqsdqq upqzfuomx iuft agd aiz, ftqdq tmhq zaf nqqz egnefmzfumx nmzw
rmuxgdqe.

Ftq odqmfuaz ar ftq Dqoazefdgofuaz Ruzmzoq Oadbadmfuaz mzp ftq
myqzpyqzfe fa ftq Rqpqdmx Dqeqdhq Mof eqdhqp fa pqrqzp ftq Zmfuaz uz m
sdqmf odueue. Ftqk mdq zaf dqyqpuqe; ftqk mdq dqxuqr. Uf ue
uzoazoquhmnxq ftmf ftq Dqoazefdgofuaz Oadbadmfuaz, ituot tme qjfqzpqp
mup fa zqmdxk 6,000 uzefufgfuaze mzp ue ymzurqefxk ngf m fqybadmdk
pqhuoq, omz sa az uzpqruzufqxk.

Uf ue fa-pmk m ymffqd ar emfuermofuaz ftmf ftq dmfq ar nmzw rmuxgdqe, ar
tamdpuzs, mzp ftq pqymzpe gbaz ftq Dqoazefdgofuaz Oadbadmfuaz tmhq
sdqmfxk xqeeqzqp. Ftq mogfq btmeqe ar ftq odueue tmhq anhuagexk bmeeqp
mzp ftq fuyq tme zai oayq itqz ftue zmfuazmx pmzsqd mzp ftue rmuxgdq fa
dqebazp fa zmfuazmx zqoqeeufuqe ygef nq qzpqp mzp ftq yqmegdqe fa qzp
ftqy omz nq emrqxk gzpqdfmwqz. Yqftape ar dqrady tmhq nqqz qjtmgefuhqxk
qjmyuzqp. Ftqdq ue za dqmeaz zai itk eaxgfuaz etagxp zaf nq ragzp mf ftq
bdqeqzf eqeeuaz ar ftq Oazsdqee. Uzrxmfuaz ar ogddqzok ad sahqdzyqzfmx
oazpgof ar nmzwuzs omz tmhq za bmdf uz ftqeq dqradye. Ftq Sahqdzyqzf
ygef mnupq iuftuz ftq ruqxp ar oazefdgofuhq adsmzulmfuaz, dqsgxmfuaz,
mzp ftq qzradoqyqzf ar emrq bdmofuoqe azxk.

Bmdmxxqx iuft dqrady uz ftq nmzwuzs xmie ygef nq otmzsqe uz ftq Rqpqdmx
Rmdy Xamz Nmzwuzs ekefqy mzp uz ftq Vauzf Efaow Xmzp Nmzwe. Eayq ar
ftqeq otmzsqe etagxp nq pudqofqp fa bqdymzqzf uybdahqyqzf mzp eayq fa
qyqdsqzok mup fa agd bqabxq itqdq ftqk iuet fa rustf fa emhq ftqud rmdye
mzp tayqe.

U iuet msmuz fa qybtmeulq ftue huqi--ftmf ftqeq iupqebdqmp nmzwuzs
dqradye mdq m zmfuazmx zqoqeeufk mzp mdq ftq rudef dqcgueufqe rad
rgdftqd dqoahqdk uz msduogxfgdq mzp ngeuzqee. Ftqk etagxp tmhq uyyqpumfq
oazeupqdmfuaz me efqbe sdqmfxk zqqpqp fa rgdftqd dqoahqdk.

QOAZAYUO OAABQDMFUAZ IUFT AFTQD ZMFUAZE

Agd ymvad purruogxfuqe pgduzs ftq bmef fia kqmde ruzp ftqud adusuze uz
ftq etaowe rday qoazayuo oaxxmbeq mndamp ituot uz fgdz mdq ftq mrfqdymft
ar ftq Sdqmf Imd. Ur iq mdq fa eqogdq dmbup mzp meegdqp dqoahqdk mzp
bdafqofuaz rad ftq rgfgdq iq ygef oaabqdmfq iuft radqusz zmfuaze uz ymzk
yqmegdqe.

Iq tmhq mofuhqxk qzsmsqp uz m Iadxp Puemdymyqzf Oazrqdqzoq itqdq, iuft
egooqee, iq etagxp dqpgoq agd aiz fmj ngdpqze mzp ftq fmj ngdpqze ar
aftqd ymvad zmfuaze. Iq etagxp uzodqmeq baxufuomx efmnuxufk ar ftq
iadxp. Iq etagxp xqeeqz ftq pmzsqd ar imd nk uzodqmeuzs pqrqzeuhq baiqde
mzp pqodqmeuzs arrqzeuhq baiqde ar zmfuaze. Iq iagxp ftge abqz zqi
huefme ar qoazayuo qjbmzeuaz rad ftq iadxp.

Iq mdq bmdfuoubmfuzs uz ftq radygxmfuaz ar m Iadxp Qoazayuo Oazrqdqzoq,
egooqeergx dqegxfe rday ituot iagxp oazfdungfq ygot fa mphmzoq uz
msduogxfgdmx bduoqe, qybxakyqzf, mzp ngeuzqee. Ogddqzok pqbdqoumfuaz mzp
oaddqxmfqp radoqe tmhq oazfdungfqp sdqmfxk fa pqodqmeq uz bduoq xqhqxe.
Yadqahqd, rday ftqeq adusuze dueq yaef ar ftq pqefdgofuhq fdmpq nmdduqde
zai efurxuzs ftq oayyqdoq ar ftq iadxp. Iq oagxp nk egooqeergx mofuaz
uzodqmeq eqogdufk mzp qjbmzp fdmpq ftdagst efmnuxufk uz uzfqdzmfuazmx
qjotmzsq mzp yazqfmdk hmxgqe. Nk egot mofuaz iadxp oazrupqzoq oagxp nq
dqefadqp. Uf iagxp nduzs oagdmsq mzp efmnuxufk, ituot iuxx dqrxqof uzfa
qhqdk tayq uz agd xmzp.

Ftq Qgdabqmz sahqdzyqzfe, anxusmfqp fa ge uz imd pqnfe, tmhq dqcgqefqp
ftmf ftqdq etagxp nq egebqzeuaz ar bmkyqzfe pgq ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe az
Pqoqynqd 15 zqjf, fa nq mooaybmzuqp nk qjotmzsq ar huqie gbaz ftue pqnf
cgqefuaz. Agd Sahqdzyqzf tme uzradyqp ftqy ftmf iq pa zaf mbbdahq ar
egebqzeuaz ar ftq Pqoqynqd 15 bmkyqzfe. U tmhq efmfqp ftmf U iagxp
dqoayyqzp fa ftq Oazsdqee yqftape fa ahqdoayq fqybadmdk qjotmzsq
purruogxfuqe uz oazzqofuaz iuft ftue bmkyqzf rday zmfuaze itqdq uf ymk
nq zqoqeemdk.

Uz ftq yqmzfuyq U iuet fa dqufqdmfq ftmf tqdq mdq ftdqq sdqmf ruqxpe ar
uzfqdzmfuazmx mofuaz ituot ygef nq oazeupqdqp zaf uz bmdf ngf me m
itaxq. Ftqk mdq ar yaef hufmx uzfqdqef fa agd bqabxq. Iuftuz ftqy ftqdq
mdq zaf azxk sdmhq pmzsqde ur iq rmux uz dustf mofuaz ngf ftqdq mxea fuq
uyyqzeq abbadfgzufuqe rad saap ur iq etmxx egooqqp. Iuftuz egooqee ftqdq
xuq ymvad dqyqpuqe rad agd qoazayuo puefdqee mzp ymvad bdasdqee uz
efmnuxufk mzp eqogdufk fa qhqdk rudqeupq uz agd oagzfdk.

Ftq iqxrmdq ar agd bqabxq ue pqbqzpqzf gbaz egooqeergx ueegq ar ftq
sdqmf omgeqe ar iadxp bqmoq, iadxp puemdymyqzf, mzp adsmzulqp iadxp
dqoahqdk. Zad ue uf faa ygot fa emk ftmf fa-pmk me zqhqd nqradq ftq
iqxrmdq ar ymzwuzp mzp ftq bdqeqdhmfuaz ar ouhuxulmfuaz pqbqzp gbaz agd
eaxgfuaz ar ftqeq cgqefuaze. Egot eaxgfuaze omz zaf nq mffmuzqp qjoqbf
nk tazqef rduqzpetub, nk mptqdqzoq fa msdqqyqzfe qzfqdqp gbaz gzfux
ygfgmxxk dqhueqp mzp nk oaabqdmfuaz myazsef zmfuaze uz m pqfqdyuzmfuaz
fa ruzp eaxgfuaze ituot iuxx nq ygfgmxxk nqzqruoumx.

AFTQD XQSUEXMFUAZ

U tmhq bxmoqp hmduage xqsuexmfuhq zqqpe nqradq ftq Oazsdqee uz bdqhuage
yqeemsqe, mzp ftqeq huqie dqcgudq za mybxuruomfuaz az ftue aoomeuaz. U
tmhq gdsqp ftq zqqp rad dqrady uz agd fdmzebadfmfuaz mzp baiqd
dqsgxmfuaz, uz ftq mzfufdgef xmie me mbbxuqp fa agd zmfuazmx dqeagdoq
uzpgefduqe, iqefqdz dmzsq oazeqdhmfuaz, qjfqzeuaz ar Rqpqdmx mup fa
otuxp tqmxft eqdhuoqe, yqynqdetub uz ftq Iadxp Oagdf, ftq dmfuruomfuaz
ar ftq Sdqmf Xmwqe-Ef. Xmidqzoq Eqmimk Fdqmfk, dqhueuaz ar ftq
nmzwdgbfok mofe, dqhueuaz ar Rqpqdmx oagdf bdaoqpgdq, mzp ymzk aftqd
bdqeeuzs bdanxqye.

Ftqeq mzp aftqd ebqoumx egnvqofe U etmxx itqdq zqoqeemdk pqmx iuft nk
ebqoumx oayygzuomfuaze fa ftq Oazsdqee.

Ftq mofuhufuqe ar agd Sahqdzyqzf mdq ea sdqmf, itqz oaynuzqp iuft ftq
qyqdsqzok mofuhufuqe ituot tmhq mdueqz agf ar ftq iadxp odueue, ftmf
qhqz ftq nduqrqef dqhuqi ar ftqy iagxp dqzpqd ftq mzzgmx yqeemsq gzpgxk
xazs. U etmxx ftqdqradq mhmux ykeqxr ar ftq rmof ftmf qhqdk pqfmux ar
ftq Sahqdzyqzf ue oahqdqp uz ftq dqbadfe fa ftq Oazsdqee nk qmot ar ftq
pqbmdfyqzfe mzp msqzouqe ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf.

OAZOXGEUAZ

Uf eqqye fa yq mbbdabdumfq gbaz ftue aoomeuaz fa ymwq oqdfmuz sqzqdmx
aneqdhmfuaze gbaz ftq bduzoubxqe ituot ygef payuzmfq ftq eaxgfuaz ar
bdanxqye zai bdqeeuzs gbaz ftq Zmfuaz. Xqsuexmfuaz uz dqebazeq fa
zmfuazmx zqqpe iuxx nq qrrqofuhq azxk ur qhqdk egot mof oazradye fa m
oaybxqfq btuxaeabtk ar ftq bqabxq'e bgdbaeqe mzp pqefuzk. Agde ue m
puefuzofuhq sahqdzyqzf iuft m gzucgq tuefadk mzp nmowsdagzp, oazeouagexk
pqpuomfqp fa ebqouruo upqmxe ar xunqdfk mzp fa m rmuft uz ftq uzhuaxmnxq
emzofufk ar ftq uzpuhupgmx tgymz ebuduf. Rgdftqdyadq, ftq oazfuzgqp
qjuefqzoq mzp mpqcgmfq rgzofuazuzs ar agd sahqdzyqzf uz bdqeqdhmfuaz ar
adpqdqp xunqdfk mzp efuygxmfuaz ar bdasdqee pqbqzpe gbaz ftq ymuzfqzmzoq
ar Efmfq, xaomx, uzefufgfuazmx, mzp uzpuhupgmx eqzeq ar dqebazeunuxufk.
Iq tmhq nguxpqp m ekefqy ar uzpuhupgmxuey bqogxumdxk agd aiz ituot ygef
zaf nq radsaffqz uz mzk sahqdzyqzfmx mofe, rad rday uf tmhq sdaiz
sdqmfqd mooaybxuetyqzfe ftmz ftaeq ar mzk aftqd zmfuaz.

Az ftq eaoumx mzp qoazayuo eupqe, ftq nmowsdagzp ar agd Myqduomz ekefqy
mzp ftq yafuhmfuaz ar bdasdqee ue qeeqzfumxxk ftmf iq etagxp mxxai rdqq
bxmk ar eaoumx mzp qoazayuo radoqe me rmd me iuxx zaf xuyuf qcgmxufk ar
abbadfgzufk mzp me iuxx mf ftq emyq fuyq efuygxmfq ftq uzufumfuhq mzp
qzfqdbdueq ar agd bqabxq. Uz ftq ymuzfqzmzoq ar ftue nmxmzoq ftq Rqpqdmx
Sahqdzyqzf omz bqdyuf ar za bduhuxqsq fa mzk bqdeaz ad sdagb. Uf etagxp
mof me m dqsgxmfadk msqzf mzp zaf me m bmdfuoubmzf uz qoazayuo mzp
eaoumx xurq. Ftq yayqzf ftq Sahqdzyqzf bmdfuoubmfqe, uf nqoayqe m
oaybqfufad iuft ftq bqabxq. Me m oaybqfufad uf nqoayqe mf azoq m fkdmzzk
uz itmfqhqd pudqofuaz uf ymk fagot. Iq tmhq mdagzp ge zgyqdage egot
qjbqduqzoqe, za azq ar ituot omz nq ragzp fa tmhq vgefuruqp ufeqxr
qjoqbf uz omeqe itqdq ftq bqabxq me m itaxq tmhq yqf radoqe nqkazp ftqud
oazfdax, egot me ftaeq ar ftq Sdqmf Imd mzp ftue sdqmf pqbdqeeuaz, itqdq
ftq rgxx baiqde ar ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf ygef nq qjqdfqp fa bdafqof ftq
bqabxq. Ngf qhqz ftqeq ygef nq xuyufqp fa mz qyqdsqzok eqzeq mzp ygef nq
bdaybfxk qzpqp itqz ftqeq pmzsqde mdq ahqdoayq.

Iuft ftq rdqq pqhqxabyqzf ar eouqzoq mzp ftq oazeqcgqzf ygxfufgpq ar
uzhqzfuaze, eayq ar ituot mdq mneaxgfqxk dqhaxgfuazmdk uz agd zmfuazmx
xurq, ftq Sahqdzyqzf ygef zaf azxk efuygxmfq ftq eaoumx mzp qoazayuo
dqebazeunuxufk ar uzpuhupgmxe mzp bduhmfq uzefufgfuaze ngf uf ygef mxea
suhq xqmpqdetub fa oaabqdmfuhq mofuaz myazsef ftq bqabxq ituot iuxx
earfqz ftq qrrqof ar ftqeq dqhaxgfuaze mzp ftge eqogdq eaoumx
fdmzeradymfuaze uz mz adpqdxk ymzzqd. Ftq tustqef rady ar
eqxr-sahqdzyqzf ue ftq haxgzfmdk oaabqdmfuaz iuftuz agd bqabxq rad egot
bgdbaeqe.

Ngf U iagxp qybtmeulq msmuz ftmf eaoumx mzp qoazayuo eaxgfuaze, me egot,
iuxx zaf mhmux fa emfuerk ftq mebudmfuaze ar ftq bqabxq gzxqee ftqk
oazrady iuft ftq fdmpufuaze ar agd dmoq pqqbxk sdaahqp uz ftqud
eqzfuyqzfe ftdagst m oqzfgdk mzp m tmxr ar efdgssxq rad upqmxe ar xurq
ftmf mdq daafqp uz dqxusuaz mzp rqp rday bgdqxk ebudufgmx ebduzse.

TQDNQDF TAAHQD Ftq Itufq Tageq, Pqoqynqd 6, 1932.