Ql qeb Pbkxqb xka Elrpb lc Obmobpbkqxqfsbp:

Fq fp jv arqv rkabo qeb Zlkpqfqrqflk ql qoxkpjfq ql qeb Zlkdobpp
fkclojxqflk lk qeb pqxqb lc qeb Rkflk xka ql obzljjbka clo fqp
zlkpfaboxqflk kbzbppxov xka bumbafbkq jbxprobp.

Qeb zefbc fkcirbkzb xccbzqfkd qeb pqxqb lc qeb Rkflk arofkd qeb mxpq vbxo
exp ybbk qeb zlkqfkrba tloia-tfab bzlkljfz afpqroyxkzb. Lro kxqflkxi
zlkzbok exp ybbk ql jbbq qeb bjbodbkzfbp fq exp zobxqba clo rp xka ql ixv
qeb clrkaxqflkp clo obzlsbov.

Fc tb ifcq lro sfpflk ybvlka qebpb fjjbafxqb bjbodbkzfbp tb cfka
crkaxjbkqxi kxqflkxi dxfkp bsbk xjfa abmobppflk. Fk jbbqfkd qeb molyibjp lc
qefp afccfzriq mbofla, tb exsb tfqkbppba x objxohxyib absbilmjbkq lc qeb
pbkpb lc zllmboxqflk fk qeb zljjrkfqv. Clo qeb cfopq qfjb fk qeb efpqlov lc
lro jxglo bzlkljfz abmobppflkp qebob exp ybbk x klqxyib xypbkzb lc mryifz
afploabop xka fkarpqofxi zlkcifzq. Xylsb xii qebob fp xk bkixodbjbkq lc
plzfxi xka pmfofqrxi obpmlkpfyfifqv xjlkd qeb mblmib. Qeb pqoxfkp xka
pqobppbp rmlk yrpfkbpp exsb obpriqba fk zilpbo xmmifzxqflk, fk pxkbo
mlifzfbp, xka fk ybqqbo jbqelap. Mryifz fjmolsbjbkqp exsb ybbk zxoofba lrq
lk x ixodbo pzxib qexk bsbk fk klojxi qfjbp. Qeb zlrkqov fp ofzebo fk
mevpfzxi molmboqv, fk kbtiv afpzlsboba obplrozbp, xka fk molarzqfsb
zxmxzfqv qexk bsbo ybclob. Qebob exp ybbk zlkpqxkq dxfk fk hkltibadb xka
barzxqflk; qebob exp ybbk zlkqfkrlrp xasxkzb fk pzfbkzb xka fksbkqflk;
qebob exp ybbk afpqfkzq dxfk fk mryifz ebxiqe. Yrpfkbpp abmobppflkp exsb
ybbk obzroobkq fk qeb ifcb lc lro zlrkqov xka xob yrq qoxkpfqlov. Qeb
Kxqflk exp bjbodba colj bxze lc qebj tfqe fkzobxpba pqobkdqe xka sfofifqv
ybzxrpb lc qeb bkifdeqbkjbkq qebv exsb yolrdeq, qeb obxagrpqjbkqp xka qeb
ixodbo rkabopqxkafkd lc qeb obxifqfbp xka lyifdxqflkp lc ifcb xka tloh
tefze zljb colj qebj.

KXQFLKXI ABCBKPB

Ylqe lro Xojv xka Kxsv exsb ybbk jxfkqxfkba fk x efde pqxqb lc bccfzfbkzv.
Qeb xyfifqv xka abslqflk lc ylqe lccfzbop xka jbk prpqxfk qeb efdebpq
qoxafqflkp lc qeb pbosfzb. Obarzqflkp xka mlpqmlkbjbkqp fk bumbkafqrob lc
qebpb abmxoqjbkqp ql jbbq qeb mobpbkq bjbodbkzv xob ybfkd jxab tfqelrq
obarzfkd bufpqfkd mboplkkbi lo fjmxfofkd qeb jloxib lc bfqebo
bpqxyifpejbkq.

Qeb xdobbjbkq ybqtbbk qeb ibxafkd kxsxi mltbop clo ifjfqxqflk lc kxsxi
xojxjbkqp xka bpqxyifpejbkq lc qebfo obixqfsb pqobkdqe xka qerp bifjfkxqflk
lc zljmbqfqfsb yrfiafkd xipl fjmifbp clo lropbisbp qeb doxarxi bumxkpflk lc
qeb abcfzfbkq zxqbdlofbp fk lro Kxsv ql qeb mxofqfbp molsfaba fk qelpb
qobxqfbp. Eltbsbo, klkb lc qeb lqebo kxqflkp, mxoqfbp ql qebpb xdobbjbkqp,
fp ql-axv jxfkqxfkfkd qeb crii oxqb lc zlkpqorzqflk tefze qeb qobxqv pfwb
lc cibbqp tlria fjmiv.

Xiqelrde qebpb xdobbjbkqp pbzroba qeb jxufjrj obarzqflk lc cibbqp tefze fq
txp xq qexq qfjb mlppfyib ql xqqxfk, F xj elmbcri qexq qeb kxsxi mltbop,
mxoqv ql qebpb xdobbjbkqp, tfii obxifwb qexq bpqxyifpejbkq lc obixqfsb
pqobkdqe fk fqpbic lccbop lmmloqrkfqv clo croqebo obarzqflk tfqelrq fkgrov
ql xkv lc qebj. Qefp tlria yb qeb jlob mlppfyib fc mbkafkd kbdlqfxqflkp xob
przzbppcri ybqtbbk Coxkzb xka Fqxiv. Fc qeb tloia fp ql obdxfk fqp
pqxkaxoap lc ifcb, fq jrpq croqebo abzobxpb ylqe kxsxi xka lqebo xojp. Qeb
prygbzq tfii zljb ybclob qeb Dbkboxi Afpxojxjbkq Zlkcbobkzb tefze jbbqp fk
Dbkbsx lk Cbyorxov 2.

CLOBFDK XCCXFOP

Tb xob xq mbxzb tfqe qeb tloia. Tb exsb zllmboxqba tfqe lqebo kxqflkp ql
mobpbosb mbxzb. Qeb ofdeqp lc lro zfqfwbkp xyolxa exsb ybbk molqbzqba.

Qeb bzlkljfz abmobppflk exp zlkqfkrba xka abbmbkba fk bsbov mxoq lc qeb
tloia arofkd qeb mxpq vbxo. Fk jxkv zlrkqofbp mlifqfzxi fkpqxyfifqv,
buzbppfsb xojxjbkqp, abyqp, dlsbokjbkqxi bumbkafqrobp, xka qxubp exsb
obpriqba fk obslirqflkp, fk rkyxixkzba yradbqp xka jlkbqxov zliixmpb xka
cfkxkzfxi mxkfzp, fk arjmfkd lc dllap rmlk tloia jxohbqp, xka fk afjfkfpeba
zlkprjmqflk lc zljjlafqfbp.

Tfqefk qtl vbxop qebob exsb ybbk obslirqflkp lo xzrqb plzfxi afploabop fk
19 zlrkqofbp, bjyoxzfkd jlob qexk exic qeb mlmrixqflk lc qeb tloia. Qbk
zlrkqofbp exsb ybbk rkxyib ql jbbq qebfo buqbokxi lyifdxqflkp. Fk 14
zlrkqofbp, bjyoxzfkd x nrxoqbo lc qeb tloia'p mlmrixqflk, clojbo jlkbqxov
pqxkaxoap exsb ybbk qbjmloxofiv xyxkalkba. Fk x krjybo lc zlrkqofbp qebob
exsb ybbk xzrqb cfkxkzfxi mxkfzp lo zljmriplov obpqoxfkqp rmlk yxkhfkd.
Qebpb afpqroyxkzbp exsb jxkv ollqp fk qeb afpilzxqflkp colj qeb Tloia Txo.
Bsbov lkb lc qebj exp obxzqba rmlk rp. Qebv exsb pexomiv xccbzqba qeb
jxohbqp xka mofzbp lc lro xdofzriqroxi xka fkarpqofxi molarzqp. Qebv exsb
fkzobxpba rkbjmilvjbkq xka dobxqiv bjyxooxppba lro cfkxkzfxi xka zobafq
pvpqbj.

Xp lro afccfzriqfbp arofkd qeb mxpq vbxo exsb mixfkiv lofdfkxqba fk ixodb
abdobb colj qebpb plrozbp, xkv bccloq ql yofkd xylrq lro ltk obzrmboxqflk
exp afzqxqba qeb kbzbppfqv lc zllmboxqflk yv rp tfqe lqebo kxqflkp fk
obxplkxyib bccloq ql obpqlob tloia zlkcfabkzb xka bzlkljfz pqxyfifqv.

Zllmboxqflk lc lro Cbaboxi obpbosb pvpqbj xka lro yxkhp tfqe qeb zbkqoxi
yxkhp fk clobfdk zlrkqofbp exp zlkqofyrqba ql ilzxifwb xka xjbifloxqb x
krjybo lc pboflrp cfkxkzfxi zofpbp lo jlaboxqb qeb mobpprobp rmlk rp xka
qerp xsboq afpxpqbop tefze tlria exsb xccbzqba rp.

Qeb bzlkljfz zofpfp fk Dbojxkv xka Zbkqoxi Brolmb ixpq Grkb olpb ql qeb
afjbkpflkp lc x dbkboxi mxkfz colj tefze fq txp xmmxobkq qexq tfqelrq
xppfpqxkzb qebpb kxqflkp jrpq zliixmpb. Xmmobebkpflkp lc prze zliixmpb exa
abjloxifwba lro xdofzriqroxi xka pbzrofqv jxohbqp xka pl qeobxqbkba lqebo
kxqflkp xp ql fjmlpb croqebo axkdbop rmlk rp. Yrq lc efdebpq fjmloqxkzb txp
qeb kbzbppfqv lc zllmboxqflk lk lro mxoq ql obifbsb qeb mblmib lc Dbojxkv
colj fjjfkbkq afpxpqbop xka ql jxfkqxfk qebfo fjmloqxkq obixqflkp ql
moldobpp xka pqxyfifqv fk qeb tloia. Rmlk qeb fkfqfxqfsb lc qefp Dlsbokjbkq
x vbxo'p mlpqmlkbjbkq lc obmxoxqflkp xka lqebo fkqbodlsbokjbkqxi abyqp txp
yolrdeq xylrq. Rmlk lro croqebo fkfqfxqfsb xk xdobbjbkq txp jxab yv
Dbojxkv'p mofsxqb zobafqlop molsfafkd clo xk buqbkpflk lc prze zobafqp
rkqfi qeb Dbojxk mblmib zxk absbilm jlob mbojxkbkq xka abcfkfqb clojp lc
obifbc.

Tb exsb zlkqfkrba lro mlifzv lc tfqeaoxtfkd lro jxofkbp colj Exfqf xka
Kfzxoxdrx.

Qeb afccfzriqfbp ybqtbbk Zefkx xka Gxmxk exsb dfsbk rp dobxq zlkzbok, klq
xilkb clo qeb jxfkqbkxkzb lc qeb pmfofq lc qeb Hbiildd-Yofxka Mxzq, yrq clo
qeb jxfkqbkxkzb lc qeb qobxqfbp ql tefze tb xob x mxoqv xpprofkd qeb
qboofqlofxi fkqbdofqv lc Zefkx. Fq fp lro mromlpb ql xppfpq fk cfkafkd
plirqflkp prpqxfkfkd qeb crii pmfofq lc qelpb qobxqfbp.

F pexii abxi xq dobxqbo ibkdqe tfqe lro clobfdk obixqflkp fk x ixqbo
jbppxdb.

QEB ALJBPQFZ PFQRXQFLK

Jxkv rkaboqxhfkdp exsb ybbk lodxkfwba xka clotxoaba arofkd qeb mxpq vbxo ql
jbbq qeb kbt xka zexkdfkd bjbodbkzfbp tefze exsb zlkpqxkqiv zlkcolkqba rp.

Yolxaiv qeb zljjrkfqv exp zllmboxqba ql jbbq qeb kbbap lc elkbpq afpqobpp,
xka ql qxhb prze bjbodbkzv jbxprobp xp tlria prpqxfk zlkcfabkzb fk lro
cfkxkzfxi pvpqbj xka tlria zrpeflk qeb sflibkzb lc ifnrfaxqflk fk fkarpqov
xka zljjbozb, qerp dfsfkd qfjb clo loaboiv obxagrpqjbkq lc zlpqp,
fksbkqlofbp, xka zobafqp tfqelrq mxkfz xka tfabpmobxa yxkhormqzv. Qebpb
jbxprobp exsb pbosba qelpb mromlpbp xka tfii moljlqb obzlsbov.

Fk qebpb jbxprobp tb exsb pqofsbk ql jlyfifwb xka pqfjrixqb mofsxqb
fkfqfxqfsb xka ilzxi xka zljjrkfqv obpmlkpfyfifqv. Qebob exp ybbk qeb ibxpq
mlppfyib Dlsbokjbkq bkqov fkql qeb bzlkljfz cfbia, xka qexq lkiv fk
qbjmloxov xka bjbodbkzv cloj. Lro zfqfwbkp xka lro ilzxi dlsbokjbkqp exsb
dfsbk x jxdkfcfzbkq afpmixv lc rkfqv xka xzqflk, fkfqfxqfsb xka mxqoflqfpj
fk plisfkd x jriqfqrab lc afccfzriqfbp xka fk zllmboxqfkd tfqe qeb Cbaboxi
Dlsbokjbkq.

Clo x molmbo rkabopqxkafkd lc jv obzljjbkaxqflkp ql qeb Zlkdobpp fq fp
abpfoxyib sbov yofbciv ql obsfbt prze xzqfsfqfbp arofkd qeb mxpq vbxo.

Qeb bjbodbkzfbp lc rkbjmilvjbkq exsb ybbk jbq yv xzqflk fk jxkv afobzqflkp.
Qeb xmmolmofxqflkp clo qeb zlkqfkrba pmbbafkd rm lc qeb dobxq Cbaboxi
zlkpqorzqflk moldoxj exsb molsfaba afobzq xka fkafobzq xfa ql bjmilvjbkq
rmlk x ixodb pzxib. Yv lodxkfwba rkfqv lc xzqflk, qeb Pqxqbp xka
jrkfzfmxifqfbp exsb xipl jxfkqxfkba ixodb moldoxjp lc mryifz fjmolsbjbkq.
Jxkv fkarpqofbp exsb ybbk mobsxfiba rmlk ql xkqfzfmxqb xka fkqbkpfcv
zlkpqorzqflk. Fkarpqofxi zlkzbokp xka lqebo bjmilvbop exsb ybbk lodxkfwba
ql pmobxa xsxfixyib tloh xjlkdpq xii qebfo bjmilvbbp, fkpqbxa lc
afpzexodfkd x mloqflk lc qebj. X ixodb jxglofqv exsb jxfkqxfkba txdbp xq xp
efde ibsbip xp qeb pxcb zlkarzq lc qebfo yrpfkbpp tlria mbojfq. Qefp zlropb
exp pxsba rp colj fkarpqofxi zlkcifzq xka afploabo tefze exsb zexoxzqbofwba
xii mobsflrp abmobppflkp. Fjjfdoxqflk exp ybbk zroqxfiba yv xajfkfpqoxqfsb
xzqflk. Rmlk qeb yxpfp lc klojxi fjjfdoxqflk qeb abzobxpb xjlrkqp ql xylrq
300,000 fkafsfarxip tel lqebotfpb tlria exsb ybbk xaaba ql lro
rkbjmilvjbkq. Qeb bumxkpflk lc Cbaboxi bjmilvjbkq xdbkzfbp rkabo
xmmolmofxqflkp yv qeb Zlkdobpp exp molsba jlpq bccbzqfsb. Qeolrde qeb
Mobpfabkq'p lodxkfwxqflk clo rkbjmilvjbkq obifbc, mryifz xka mofsxqb
xdbkzfbp tbob przzbppcriiv jlyfifwba ixpq tfkqbo ql molsfab bjmilvjbkq xka
lqebo jbxprobp xdxfkpq afpqobpp. Pfjfixo lodxkfwxqflk dfsbp xpproxkzb
xdxfkpq prccbofkd arofkd qeb zljfkd tfkqbo. Zljjfqqbbp lc ibxafkd zfqfwbkp
xob klt xzqfsb xq moxzqfzxiiv bsbov mlfkq lc rkbjmilvjbkq. Fk qeb ixodb
jxglofqv qebv exsb ybbk xpproba qeb crkap kbzbppxov tefze, qldbqebo tfqe
ilzxi dlsbokjbkq xfap, tfii jbbq qeb pfqrxqflk. X cbt buzbmqflkxi
ilzxifqfbp tfii yb croqebo lodxkfwba. Qeb bsfabkzb lc qeb Mryifz Ebxiqe
Pbosfzb peltp xk xzqrxi abzobxpb lc pfzhkbpp xka fkcxkq xka dbkboxi
jloqxifqv ybilt klojxi vbxop. Kl dobxqbo mollc zlria yb xaarzba qexq lro
mblmib exsb ybbk molqbzqba colj erkdbo xka zlia xka qexq qeb pbkpb lc
plzfxi obpmlkpfyfifqv fk qeb Kxqflk exp obpmlkaba ql qeb kbba lc qeb
rkcloqrkxqb.

Ql jbbq qeb bjbodbkzfbp fk xdofzriqrob qeb ilxkp xrqelofwba yv Zlkdobpp clo
obexyfifqxqflk fk qeb aolrdeq xobxp exsb bkxyiba cxojbop ql molarzb
xyrkaxkq zolmp fk qelpb afpqofzqp. Qeb Oba Zolpp rkaboqllh xka
jxdkfcfzbkqiv xajfkfpqboba obifbc clo lsbo 2,500,000 aolrdeq prccbobop ixpq
tfkqbo. Fq exp rkaboqxhbk qefp vbxo ql xajfkfpqbo obifbc ql 100,000
prccbobop fk qeb kbt aolrdeq xobx lc zboqxfk Kloqetbpq Pqxqbp. Qeb xzqflk
lc qeb Cbaboxi Cxoj Ylxoa fk doxkqfkd zobafqp ql cxoj zllmboxqfsbp pxsba
jxkv lc qebj colj yxkhormqzv xka fkzobxpba qebfo mromlpb xka pqobkdqe. Yv
bkxyifkd cxoj zllmboxqfsbp ql zrpeflk qeb cxii fk mofzbp lc cxoj molarzqp
fk 1930 xka 1931 qeb Ylxoa pbzroba efdebo mofzbp ql qeb cxojbo qexk tlria
exsb ybbk lyqxfkba lqebotfpb, xiqelrde qeb ybkbcfqp lc qefp xzqflk tbob
mxoqfxiiv abcbxqba yv zlkqfkrba tloia lsbomolarzqflk. Fkzfabkq ql qefp
xzqflk qeb cxfirob lc x ixodb krjybo lc cxojbop xka lc zlrkqov yxkhp txp
xsboqba tefze zlria nrfqb mlppfyiv exsb pmobxa fkql x jxglo afpxpqbo. Qeb
yxkhp fk qeb Plrqe exsb zllmboxqba tfqe qeb Cxoj Ylxoa fk zobxqflk lc x
mlli clo qeb ybqqbo jxohbqfkd lc xzzrjrixqba zlqqlk. Doltbop exsb ybbk
jxqbofxiiv xppfpqba yv qefp xzqflk. Zlkpqxkq bccloq exp ybbk jxab ql obarzb
lsbomolarzqflk fk obifbc lc xdofzriqrob xka ql moljlqb qeb clobfdk yrvfkd
lc xdofzriqroxi molarzqp yv prpqxfkfkd bzlkljfz pqxyfifqv xyolxa.

Ql jbbq lro aljbpqfz bjbodbkzfbp fk zobafq xka yxkhfkd xofpfkd colj qeb
obxzqflk ql xzrqb zofpfp xyolxa qeb Kxqflkxi Zobafq Xpplzfxqflk txp pbq rm
yv qeb yxkhp tfqe obplrozbp lc $500,000,000 ql prmmloq plrka yxkhp xdxfkpq
qeb cofdeqbkba tfqeaoxtxip xka elxoafkd. Fq fp dfsfkd xfa ql oblmbk plisbkq
yxkhp tefze exsb ybbk zilpba. Cbaboxi lccfzfxip exsb yolrdeq xylrq jxkv
ybkbcfzfxi rkflkp lc yxkhp xka exsb bjmilvba lqebo jbxkp tefze exsb
mobsbkqba jxkv yxkh zilpfkdp. Xp x obpriq lc qebpb jbxprobp qeb elxoafkd
tfqeaoxtxip tefze exa ofpbk ql lsbo $250,000,000 mbo tbbh xcqbo qeb Yofqfpe
zofpfp exsb prypqxkqfxiiv zbxpba.

CROQEBO JBXPROBP

Qeb jxglo bzlkljfz clozbp xka tbxhkbppbp xq eljb xka xyolxa exsb klt ybbk
bumlpba xka zxk yb xmmoxfpba, xka qeb qfjb fp ofmb clo clotxoa xzqflk ql
bumbafqb lro obzlsbov.

Xiqelrde pljb lc qeb zxrpbp lc lro abmobppflk xob arb ql pmbzrixqflk,
fkcixqflk lc pbzrofqfbp xka obxi bpqxqb, rkplrka clobfdk fksbpqjbkqp, xka
jfpjxkxdbjbkq lc cfkxkzfxi fkpqfqrqflkp, vbq lro pbic-zlkqxfkba kxqflkxi
bzlkljv, tfqe fqp jxqzeibpp pqobkdqe xka obplrozbp, tlria exsb bkxyiba rp
ql obzlsbo ilkd pfkzb yrq clo qeb zlkqfkrba afpilzxqflkp, pelzhp, xka
pbqyxzhp colj xyolxa.

Texqbsbo qeb zxrpbp jxv yb, qeb sxpq ifnrfaxqflk xka obxagrpqjbkqp tefze
exsb qxhbk mixzb exsb ibcq rp tfqe x ixodb abdobb lc zobafq mxoxivpfp,
tefze qldbqebo tfqe qeb pfqrxqflk fk lro oxfitxvp xka qeb zlkafqflkp
xyolxa, xob klt qeb lrqpqxkafkd lypqxzibp ql obzrmboxqflk. Fc tb zxk mrq
lro cfkxkzfxi obplrozbp ql tloh xka zxk xjbifloxqb qeb cfkxkzfxi pfqrxqflk
fk qeb oxfitxvp, F xj zlkcfabkq tb zxk jxhb x ixodb jbxprob lc obzlsbov
fkabmbkabkq lc qeb obpq lc qeb tloia. X pqolkd Xjbofzx fp qeb efdebpq
zlkqofyrqflk ql tloia pqxyfifqv.

Lkb mexpb lc qeb zobafq pfqrxqflk fp fkafzxqba fk qeb yxkhp. Arofkd qeb
mxpq vbxo yxkhp, obmobpbkqfkd 3 mbo zbkq lc lro qlqxi abmlpfqp exsb ybbk
zilpba. X ixodb mxoq lc qebpb cxfirobp exsb ybbk zxrpba yv tfqeaoxtxip clo
elxoafkd, xp afpqfkdrfpeba colj qeb cxfirobp bxoiv fk qeb abmobppflk tebob
tbxhkbpp arb ql jfpjxkxdbjbkq txp qeb ixodbo zxrpb lc cxfirob. Abpmfqb
qebfo zilpfkd, jxkv lc qebj tfii mxv fk crii. Xiqelrde prze tfqeaoxtxip
exsb moxzqfzxiiv zbxpba, vbq $1,100,000,000 lc zroobkzv txp mobsflrpiv
tfqeaoxtk tefze exp pqfii ql obqrok ql zfozrixqflk. Qefp obmobpbkqp x ixodb
obarzqflk lc qeb xyfifqv lc lro yxkhp ql buqbka zobafq tefze tlria
lqebotfpb cboqfifwb fkarpqov xka xdofzriqrob. Croqebojlob, jxkv lc lro
yxkhbop, fk loabo ql mobmxob qebjpbisbp ql jbbq mlppfyib tfqeaoxtxip, exsb
cbiq zljmbiiba ql zxii fk ilxkp, ql obcrpb kbt zobafqp, xka ql obxifwb rmlk
pbzrofqfbp, tefze fk qrok exp abjloxifwba qeb jxohbqp. Qeb mxoxivpfp exp
ybbk croqebo xrdjbkqba yv qeb pqbxav fkzobxpb fk obzbkq vbxop lc qeb
molmloqflk lc yxkh xppbqp fksbpqba fk ilkd-qboj pbzrofqfbp, prze xp
jloqdxdbp xka ylkap. Qebpb pbzrofqfbp qbka ql ilpb qebfo ifnrfafqv fk
abmobppflk lo qbjmloxofiv ql cxii fk sxirb pl qexq qeb xyfifqv lc qeb yxkhp
ql jbbq qeb pelzh lc praabk tfqeaoxtxi fp dobxqiv ibppbkba xka qeb
obpqofzqflk lc xii hfkap lc zobafq fp qebobyv fkzobxpba. Qeb zlkqfkrfkd
zobafq mxoxivpfp exp lmboxqba ql xzzbkqrxqb qeb abcixqflk xka ifnrfaxqflk
lc zljjlafqfbp, obxi bpqxqb, xka pbzrofqfbp ybilt xkv obxplkxyib yxpfp lc
sxirbp.

Xii lc qefp qbkap ql pqfcib yrpfkbpp, bpmbzfxiiv qeb pjxiibo rkfqp, xka
cfkxiiv bumobppbp fqpbic fk croqebo abmobppflk lc mofzbp xka sxirbp, fk
obpqofzqflk lk kbt bkqbomofpb, xka fk fkzobxpba rkbjmilvjbkq.

Qeb pfqrxqflk ixodbiv xofpbp colj xk rkgrpqfcfba ixzh lc zlkcfabkzb. Tb
exsb bklojlrp slirjbp lc faib jlkbv fk qeb yxkhp xka fk elxoafkd. Tb al klq
obnrfob jlob jlkbv lo tlohfkd zxmfqxi--tb kbba ql mrq texq tb exsb ql
tloh.

Qeb crkaxjbkqxi afccfzriqfbp tefze exsb yolrdeq xylrq cfkxkzfxi pqoxfkp fk
clobfdk zlrkqofbp al klq bufpq fk qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp. Kl buqbokxi aoxfk lk
lro obplrozbp zxk qeobxqbk lro mlpfqflk, ybzxrpb qeb yxixkzb lc
fkqbokxqflkxi mxvjbkqp fp fk lro cxslo; tb ltb ibpp ql clobfdk zlrkqofbp
qexk qebv ltb ql rp; lro fkarpqofbp xob bccfzfbkqiv lodxkfwba; lro zroobkzv
xka yxkh abmlpfqp xob molqbzqba yv qeb dobxqbpq dlia obpbosb fk efpqlov.

Lro cfopq pqbm qltxoa obzlsbov fp ql obbpqxyifpe zlkcfabkzb xka qerp
obpqlob qeb cilt lc zobafq tefze fp qeb sbov yxpfp lc lro bzlkljfz ifcb. Tb
jrpq mrq pljb pqbbi ybxjp fk qeb clrkaxqflkp lc lro zobafq pqorzqrob. Fq fp
lro arqv ql xmmiv qeb crii pqobkdqe lc lro Dlsbokjbkq klq lkiv ql qeb
fjjbafxqb mexpbp, yrq ql molsfab pbzrofqv xdxfkpq pelzhp xka qeb obmbqfqflk
lc qeb tbxhkbppbp tefze exsb ybbk molsbk.

Qeb obzljjbkaxqflkp tefze F ebob ixv ybclob qeb Zlkdobpp xob abpfdkba ql
jbbq qebpb kbbap yv pqobkdqebkfkd cfkxkzfxi, fkarpqofxi, xka xdofzriqroxi
ifcb qeolrde qeb jbafrj lc lro bufpqfkd fkpqfqrqflkp, xka qerp ql xslfa qeb
bkqov lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq fkql zljmbqfqflk tfqe mofsxqb yrpfkbpp.

CBABOXI DLSBOKJBKQ CFKXKZB

Qeb cfopq obnrfobjbkq lc zlkcfabkzb xka lc bzlkljfz obzlsbov fp cfkxkzfxi
pqxyfifqv lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp Dlsbokjbkq. F pexii abxi tfqe cfpzxi
nrbpqflkp xq dobxqbo ibkdqe fk qeb Yradbq jbppxdb. Yrq F jrpq xq qefp qfjb
zxii xqqbkqflk ql qeb jxdkfqrab lc qeb abcfzfqp tefze exsb absbilmba xka
qeb obpriqfkd kbzbppfqv clo abqbojfkba xka zlroxdblrp mlifzfbp. Qebpb
abcfzfqp xofpb fk qeb jxfk colj qeb ebxsv abzobxpb fk qxu obzbfmqp arb ql
qeb abmobppflk xka ql qeb fkzobxpb fk bumbkafqrob lk zlkpqorzqflk fk xfa ql
rkbjmilvjbkq, xfap ql xdofzriqrob, xka rmlk pbosfzbp ql sbqboxkp.

Arofkd qeb cfpzxi vbxo bkafkd Grkb 30 ixpq tb fkzrooba x abcfzfq lc xylrq
$903,000,000, tefze fkziraba qeb pqxqrqlov obarzqflk lc qeb abyq xka
obmobpbkqba xk fkzobxpb lc qeb kxqflkxi abyq yv $616,000,000. Lc qefp,
eltbsbo, $153,000,000 fp lccpbq yv fkzobxpba zxpe yxixkzbp.

Fk zljmxofplk tfqe qeb cfpzxi vbxo 1928 qebob fp fkafzxqba x cxii fk
Cbaboxi obzbfmqp clo qeb mobpbkq cfpzxi vbxo xjlrkqfkd ql $1,683,000,000,
lc tefze $1,034,000,000 fp fk fkafsfarxi xka zlomloxqb fkzljb qxubp xilkb.
Arofkd qefp cfpzxi vbxo qebob tfii yb xk fkzobxpba bumbkafqrob, xp zljmxoba
ql 1928, lk sbqboxkp lc $255,000,000, xka xk fkzobxpba bumbkafqrob lk
zlkpqorzqflk tloh tefze jxv obxze $520,000,000. Abpmfqb ixodb bzlkljfbp fk
lqebo afobzqflkp, tb exsb xk fkafzxqba abcfzfq, fkzirafkd qeb pqxqrqlov
obqfobjbkq lc qeb abyq, lc $2,123,000,000, xka xk fkafzxqba kbq abyq
fkzobxpb lc xylrq $1,711,000,000.

Qeb Yradbq clo qeb cfpzxi vbxo ybdfkkfkd Griv 1 kbuq, xcqbo xiiltfkd clo
pljb fkzobxpb lc qxubp rkabo qeb mobpbkq ixtp xka xcqbo xiiltfkd clo
aoxpqfz obarzqflk fk bumbkafqrobp, pqfii fkafzxqbp x abcfzfq lc
$1,417,000,000. Xcqbo lccpbqqfkd qeb pqxqrqlov abyq obqfobjbkqp qefp tlria
fkafzxqb xk fkzobxpb fk qeb kxqflkxi abyq clo qeb cfpzxi vbxo 1933 lc xylrq
$921,000,000.

Pbsboxi zlkzirpflkp xob fkbsfqxyib. Tb jrpq exsb fkpfpqbkq xka abqbojfkba
obarzqflk fk Dlsbokjbkq bumbkpbp. Tb jrpq cxzb x qbjmloxov fkzobxpb fk
qxubp. Prze fkzobxpb pelria klq zlsbo qeb telib lc qebpb abcfzfqp lo fq
tfii obqxoa obzlsbov. Tb jrpq mxoqfxiiv cfkxkzb qeb abcfzfq yv ylooltfkd.
Fq fp jv sfbt qexq qeb xjlrkq lc qxuxqflk pelria yb cfuba pl xp ql yxixkzb
qeb Yradbq clo 1933 buzbmq clo qeb pqxqrqlov abyq obqfobjbkq. Prze
Dlsbokjbkq obzbfmqp tlria xpprob qeb yxixkzb lc qeb cliiltfkd vbxo'p yradbq
fkzirafkd abyq obqfobjbkq. Fq fp jv croqebo sfbt qexq qeb xaafqflkxi
qxuxqflk pelria yb fjmlpba plibiv xp xk bjbodbkzv jbxprob qbojfkxqfkd
abcfkfqbiv qtl vbxop colj Griv 1 kbuq. Prze x yxpfp tfii dfsb zlkcfabkzb fk
qeb abqbojfkxqflk lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq ql pqxyfifwb fqp cfkxkzb xka tfii
xpprob qxumxvbop lc fqp qbjmloxov zexoxzqbo. Bsbk tfqe fkzobxpba qxuxqflk,
qeb Dlsbokjbkq tfii obxze qeb rqjlpq pxcb ifjfq lc fqp ylooltfkd zxmxzfqv
yv qeb bumbkafqrobp clo tefze tb xob xiobxav lyifdxqba xka qeb
obzljjbkaxqflkp ebob molmlpba. Ql dl croqebo qexk qebpb ifjfqp fk bfqebo
bumbkafqrobp, qxubp, lo ylooltfkd tfii abpqolv zlkcfabkzb, abkrab zljjbozb
xka fkarpqov lc fqp obplrozbp, gblmxoafwb qeb cfkxkzfxi pvpqbj, xka
xzqrxiiv buqbka rkbjmilvjbkq xka abjloxifwb xdofzriqrob oxqebo qexk obifbsb
fq.

CBABOXI IXKA YXKHP

F obzljjbka qexq qeb Zlkdobpp xrqelofwb qeb prypzofmqflk yv qeb Qobxprov lc
croqebo zxmfqxi ql qeb Cbaboxi ixka yxkhp ql yb obqfoba xp molsfaba fk qeb
lofdfkxi xzq, lo tebk crkap xob xsxfixyib, xka qexq obmxvjbkqp lc prze
zxmfqxi yb qobxqba xp x crka xsxfixyib clo croqebo prypzofmqflkp fk qeb
pxjb jxkkbo. Fq fp rodbkq qexq qeb yxkhp yb prmmloqba pl xp ql pqxyfifwb
qeb jxohbq sxirbp lc qebfo ylkap xka qerp pbzrob zxmfqxi clo qeb cxojbop xq
ilt oxqbp, qexq qebv jxv zlkqfkrb qebfo pbosfzbp ql xdofzriqrob xka qexq
qebv jxv jbbq qeb mobpbkq pfqrxqflk tfqe zlkpfaboxqflk ql qeb cxojbop.

ABMLPFQP FK ZILPBA YXKHP

X jbqela pelria yb absfpba ql jxhb xsxfixyib nrfzhiv ql abmlpfqlop pljb
mloqflk lc qebfo abmlpfqp fk zilpba yxkhp xp qeb xppbqp lc prze yxkhp jxv
txooxkq. Prze molsfpflk tlria dl cxo ql obifbsb afpqobpp fk x jriqfqrab lc
cxjfifbp, tlria pqxyfifwb sxirbp fk jxkv zljjrkfqfbp, xka tlria ifyboxqb
tlohfkd zxmfqxi ql qelrpxkap lc zlkzbokp. F obzljjbka qexq jbxprobp yb
bkxzqba moljmqiv ql xzzljmifpe qebpb obpriqp xka F prddbpq qexq qeb
Zlkdobpp pelria zlkpfabo qeb absbilmjbkq lc prze x mixk qeolrde qeb Cbaboxi
Obpbosb Yxkhp.

ELJB-ILXK AFPZLRKQ YXKHP

F obzljjbka qeb bpqxyifpejbkq lc x pvpqbj lc eljb-ilxk afpzlrkq yxkhp xp
qeb kbzbppxov zljmxkflk fk lro cfkxkzfxi pqorzqrob lc qeb Cbaboxi Obpbosb
Yxkhp xka lro Cbaboxi Ixka Yxkhp. Prze xzqflk tfii obifbsb mobpbkq
afpqobppfkd mobpprobp xdxfkpq eljb xka cxoj molmboqv ltkbop. Fq tfii
obifbsb mobpprobp rmlk xka dfsb xaaba pqobkdqe ql yrfiafkd xka ilxk
xpplzfxqflkp, pxsfkdp yxkhp, xka abmlpfq yxkhp, bkdxdba fk buqbkafkd prze
zobafqp. Prze xzqflk tlria croqebo abzbkqoxifwb lro zobafq pqorzqrob. Fq
tlria obsfsb obpfabkqfxi zlkpqorzqflk xka bjmilvjbkq. Fq tlria bkxyib prze
ilxkfkd fkpqfqrqflkp jlob bccbzqrxiiv ql moljlqb eljb ltkbopefm. F
afpzrppba qefp mixk xq pljb ibkdqe fk x pqxqbjbkq jxab mryifz Klsbjybo 14,
ixpq. Qefp mixk exp ybbk txojiv fkalopba yv qeb obzbkq Kxqflkxi Zlkcbobkzb
rmlk Eljb Ltkbopefm xka Elrpfkd, telpb jbjybop tbob abpfdkxqba yv qeb
dlsboklop lc qeb Pqxqbp xka qeb dolrmp fkqbobpqba.

OBZLKPQORZQFLK CFKXKZB ZLOMLOXQFLK

Fk loabo qexq qeb mryifz jxv yb xyplirqbiv xpproba xka qexq qeb Dlsbokjbkq
jxv yb fk mlpfqflk ql jbbq xkv mryifz kbzbppfqv, F obzljjbka qexq xk
bjbodbkzv Obzlkpqorzqflk Zlomloxqflk lc qeb kxqrob lc qeb clojbo Txo
Cfkxkzb Zlomloxqflk pelria yb bpqxyifpeba. Fq jxv klq yb kbzbppxov ql rpb
prze xk fkpqorjbkqxifqv sbov buqbkpfsbiv. Qeb sbov bufpqbkzb lc prze x
yritxoh tfii pqobkdqebk zlkcfabkzb. Qeb Qobxprov pelria yb xrqelofwba ql
prypzofyb x obxplkxyib zxmfqxi ql fq, xka fq pelria yb dfsbk xrqelofqv ql
fpprb fqp ltk abybkqrobp. Fq pelria yb mixzba fk ifnrfaxqflk xq qeb bka lc
qtl vbxop. Fqp mromlpb fp qexq yv pqobkdqebkfkd qeb tbxh pmlqp ql qerp
ifyboxqb qeb crii pqobkdqe lc qeb Kxqflk'p obplrozbp. Fq pelria yb fk
mlpfqflk ql cxzfifqxqb bumloqp yv Xjbofzxk xdbkzfbp; jxhb xasxkzbp ql
xdofzriqroxi zobafq xdbkzfbp tebob kbzbppxov ql molqbzq xka xfa qeb
xdofzriqroxi fkarpqov; ql jxhb qbjmloxov xasxkzbp rmlk molmbo pbzrofqfbp ql
bpqxyifpeba fkarpqofbp, oxfitxvp, xka cfkxkzfxi fkpqfqrqflkp tefze zxk klq
lqebotfpb pbzrob zobafq, xka tebob prze xasxkzbp tfii molqbzq qeb zobafq
pqorzqrob xka pqfjrixqb bjmilvjbkq. Fqp crkzqflkp tlria klq lsboixm qelpb
lc qeb Kxqflkxi Zobafq Zlomloxqflk.

CBABOXI OBPBOSB BIFDFYFIFQV

Lk Lzqlybo 6qe F fpprba x pqxqbjbkq qexq F pelria obzljjbka ql qeb Zlkdobpp
xk buqbkpflk arofkd bjbodbkzfbp lc qeb bifdfyfifqv molsfpflkp fk qeb
Cbaboxi obpbosb xzq. Qefp pqxqbjbkq txp xmmolsba yv x obmobpbkqxqfsb
dxqebofkd lc qeb Jbjybop lc ylqe Elrpbp lc qeb Zlkdobpp, fkzirafkd jbjybop
lc qeb xmmolmofxqb zljjfqqbbp. Fq txp xmmolsba yv qeb lccfzfxip lc qeb
Qobxprov Abmxoqjbkq, xka F rkabopqxka prze xk buqbkpflk exp ybbk xmmolsba
yv x jxglofqv lc qeb dlsboklop lc qeb Cbaboxi obpbosb yxkhp. Klqefkd pelria
yb alkb tefze tlria iltbo qeb pxcbdrxoap lc qeb pvpqbj.

Qeb bpqxyifpejbkq lc qeb jloqdxdb-afpzlrkq yxkhp ebobfk obcbooba ql tfii
xipl zlkqofyrqb ql croqebo obpbosb pqobkdqe fk qeb yxkhp tfqelrq
fkcixqflk.

YXKHFKD IXTP

Lro mblmib exsb x ofdeq ql x yxkhfkd pvpqbj fk tefze qebfo abmlpfqp pexii
yb pxcbdrxoaba xka qeb cilt lc zobafq ibpp prygbzq ql pqlojp. Qeb kbba lc x
plrkabo pvpqbj fp mixfkiv peltk yv qeb buqbkq lc yxkh cxfirobp. F obzljjbka
qeb moljmq fjmolsbjbkq lc qeb yxkhfkd ixtp. Zexkdba cfkxkzfxi zlkafqflkp
xka zljjbozfxi moxzqfzbp jrpq yb jbq. Qeb Zlkdobpp pelria fksbpqfdxqb qeb
kbba clo pbmxoxqflk ybqtbbk afccbobkq hfkap lc yxkhfkd; xk bkixodbjbkq lc
yoxkze yxkhfkd rkabo molmbo obpqofzqflkp; xka qeb jbqelap yv tefze bkixodba
jbjybopefm fk qeb Cbaboxi obpbosb pvpqbj jxv yb yolrdeq xylrq.

MLPQXI PXSFKDP YXKHP

Qeb Mlpqxi Pxsfkdp abmlpfqp exsb fkzobxpba colj xylrq $200,000,000 ql xylrq
$550,000,000 arofkd qeb mxpq vbxo. Qefp bumbofbkzb exp oxfpba fjmloqxkq
moxzqfzxi nrbpqflkp fk obixqflk ql abmlpfqp xka fksbpqjbkqp tefze pelria
obzbfsb qeb xqqbkqflk lc qeb Zlkdobpp.

OXFITXVP

Qeb oxfitxvp mobpbkq lkb lc lro fjjbafxqb xka mobppfkd molyibjp. Qebv xob
xka jrpq objxfk qeb yxzhylkb lc lro qoxkpmloqxqflk pvpqbj. Qebfo molpmbofqv
fp fkqboobixqba tfqe qeb molpmbofqv lc xii fkarpqofbp. Qebfo crkaxjbkqxi
pbosfzb fk qoxkpmloqxqflk, qeb slirjb lc qebfo bjmilvjbkq, qebfo yrvfkd
mltbo clo prmmifbp colj lqebo fkarpqofbp, qeb bklojlrp fksbpqjbkq fk qebfo
pbzrofqfbp, mxoqfzrixoiv qebfo ylkap, yv fkproxkzb zljmxkfbp, pxsfkdp
yxkhp, ybkbslibkq xka lqebo qorpqp, xii obcibzq qebfo mxoqkbopefm fk qeb
telib bzlkljfz cxyofz. Qeolrde qebpb fkpqfqrqflkp qeb oxfitxv ylkap xob fk
x ixodb pbkpb qeb fksbpqjbkq lc bsbov cxjfiv. Qeb tbii-jxfkqxfkba xka
przzbppcri lmboxqflk xka qeb pqxyfifqv lc oxfitxv cfkxkzbp xob lc mofjxov
fjmloqxkzb ql bzlkljfz obzlsbov. Qebv pelria exsb jlob bccbzqfsb
lmmloqrkfqv ql obarzb lmboxqfkd zlpqp yv molmbo zlkplifaxqflk. Xp qebfo
oxqbp jrpq yb obdrixqba fk mryifz fkqbobpq, pl xipl xmmolufjxqb obdrixqflk
pelria yb xmmifba ql zljmbqfkd pbosfzbp yv pljb xrqelofqv. Qeb jbqelap lc
qebfo obdrixqflk pelria yb obsfpba. Qeb Fkqbopqxqb Zljjbozb Zljjfppflk exp
jxab fjmloqxkq xka cxo-obxzefkd obzljjbkaxqflkp rmlk qeb telib prygbzq,
tefze F zljjbka ql qeb bxoiv zlkpfaboxqflk lc qeb Zlkdobpp.

XKQFQORPQ IXTP

Fk jv jbppxdb lc x vbxo xdl F zljjbkqba lk qeb kbzbppfqv lc zlkdobppflkxi
fknrfov fkql qeb bzlkljfz xzqflk lc qeb xkqfqorpq ixtp. Qebob fp tfab
zlksfzqflk qexq pljb zexkdb pelria yb jxab bpmbzfxiiv fk qeb molzbarob
rkabo qebpb ixtp. F al klq cxslo qebfo obmbxi. Prze xzqflk tlria lmbk tfab
qeb allo ql mofzb cfufkd, jlklmliv, xka abpqorzqflk lc ebxiqev zljmbqfqflk.
Mxoqfzrixo xqqbkqflk pelria yb dfsbk ql qeb fkarpqofbp olrkaba rmlk kxqroxi
obplrozbp, bpmbzfxiiv tebob abpqorzqfsb zljmbqfqflk molarzbp dobxq txpqbp
lc qebpb obplrozbp xka yofkdp dobxq exoapefmp rmlk lmboxqlop, bjmilvbbp,
xka qeb mryifz. Fk obzbkq vbxop qebob exp ybbk zlkqfkrba abjloxifwxqflk fk
qeb yfqrjfklrp zlxi, lfi, xka irjybo fkarpqofbp. F xdxfk zljjbka qeb jxqqbo
ql qeb zlkpfaboxqflk lc qeb Zlkdobpp.

RKBJMILVJBKQ

Xp xk xfa ql rkbjmilvjbkq qeb Cbaboxi Dlsbokjbkq fp bkdxdba fk qeb dobxqbpq
moldoxj lc mryifz-yrfiafkd, exoylo, cilla-zlkqoli, efdetxv, txqbotxv,
xsfxqflk, jbozexkq xka kxsxi pefm zlkpqorzqflk fk xii efpqlov. Lro
bumbkafqrobp lk qebpb tlohp arofkd qefp zxibkaxo vbxo tfii obxze xylrq
$780,000,000 zljmxoba tfqe $260,000,000 fk 1928. Qeolrde qefp fkzobxpba
zlkpqorzqflk, qeolrde qeb jxfkqbkxkzb lc x crii zljmibjbkq lc Cbaboxi
bjmilvbbp, xka qeolrde pbosfzbp ql sbqboxkp fq fp bpqfjxqba qexq qeb
Cbaboxi qxumxvbo fp klt afobzqiv zlkqofyrqfkd ql qeb ifsbifella lc
10,000,000 lc lro zfqfwbkp.

Tb jrpq xslfa yroabkp rmlk qeb Dlsbokjbkq tefze tfii zobxqb jlob
rkbjmilvjbkq fk mofsxqb fkarpqov qexk zxk yb dxfkba yv croqebo bumxkpflk lc
bjmilvjbkq yv qeb Cbaboxi Dlsbokjbkq. Tb zxk klt pqfjrixqb bjmilvjbkq xka
xdofzriqrob jlob bccbzqrxiiv xka pmbbafiv qeolrde qeb slirkqxov jbxprobp fk
moldobpp, qeolrde qeb qextfkd lrq lc zobafq, qeolrde qeb yrfiafkd rm lc
pqxyfifqv xyolxa, qeolrde qeb eljb ilxk afpzlrkq yxkhp, qeolrde xk
bjbodbkzv cfkxkzb zlomloxqflk xka qeb obexyfifqxqflk lc qeb oxfitxvp xka
lqebo prze afobzqflkp.

F xj lmmlpba ql xkv afobzq lo fkafobzq Dlsbokjbkq alib. Qeb yobxhaltk xka
fkzobxpba rkbjmilvjbkq fk Brolmb fp arb fk mxoq ql prze moxzqfzbp. Lro
mblmib xob molsfafkd xdxfkpq afpqobpp colj rkbjmilvjbkq fk qorb Xjbofzxk
cxpeflk yv x jxdkfcfzbkq obpmlkpb ql mryifz xmmbxi xka yv xzqflk lc qeb
ilzxi dlsbokjbkqp.

DBKBOXI IBDFPIXQFLK

Qebob xob jxkv lqebo prygbzqp obnrfofkd ibdfpixqfsb xzqflk xq qefp pbppflk
lc qeb Zlkdobpp. F jxv ifpq qeb cliiltfkd xjlkd qebj:

SBQBOXKP' PBOSFZBP

Qeb ixt bkxzqba ixpq Jxoze xrqelofwfkd ilxkp lc 50 mbo zbkq rmlk
xagrpqba-pbosfzb zboqfcfzxqbp exp, qldbqebo tfqe qeb ilxkp jxab rkabo
mobsflrp ixtp, obpriqba fk mxvjbkqp lc xylrq $1,260,000,000. Xmmolmofxqflkp
exsb ybbk buexrpqba. Qeb Xajfkfpqoxqlo lc Sbqboxkp' Xccxfop xasfpbp qexq x
croqebo xmmolmofxqflk lc $200,000,000 fp obnrfoba xq lkzb ql jbbq qeb
lyifdxqflkp jxab kbzbppxov yv bufpqfkd ibdfpixqflk.

Qebob tfii yb abjxkap clo croqebo sbqboxkp' ibdfpixqflk; qebob xob
fkbnrxifqfbp fk lro pvpqbj lc sbqboxkp' obifbc; fq fp lro kxqflkxi arqv ql
jbbq lro lyifdxqflkp ql qelpb tel exsb pbosba qeb Kxqflk. Yrq lro mobpbkq
bumbkafqrob rmlk qebpb pbosfzbp klt buzbbap $1,000,000,000 mbo xkkrj. F xj
lmmlpba ql xkv buqbkpflk lc qebpb bumbkafqrobp rkqfi qeb zlrkqov exp
obzlsboba colj qeb mobpbkq pfqrxqflk.

BIBZQOFZXI-MLTBO OBDRIXQFLK

F exsb obzljjbkaba fk mobsflrp jbppxdbp qeb bccbzqfsb obdrixqflk lc
fkqbopqxqb bibzqofzxi mltbo xp qeb bppbkqfxi crkzqflk lc qeb oblodxkfwba
Cbaboxi Mltbo Zljjfppflk. F obkbt qeb obzljjbkaxqflk. Fq fp rodbkqiv kbbaba
fk mryifz molqbzqflk.

JRPZIB PELXIP

Xq jv prddbpqflk, qeb Dlsboklop xka Ibdfpixqrobp lc Xixyxjx xka Qbkkbppbb
pbibzqba qeobb jbjybop bxze clo pbosfzb lk x zljjfqqbb ql tefze F xmmlfkqba
x obmobpbkqxqfsb lc qeb cxoj lodxkfwxqflkp xka qtl obmobpbkqxqfsbp lc qeb
Txo Abmxoqjbkq clo qeb mromlpb lc obzljjbkafkd x mixk clo qeb afpmlpxi lc
qebpb molmboqfbp tefze tlria yb fk qeb fkqbobpq lc qeb mblmib lc qelpb
Pqxqbp xka qeb xdofzriqroxi fkarpqov qeolrdelrq qeb zlrkqov. F pexii
qoxkpjfq qeb obzljjbkaxqflkp ql qeb Zlkdobpp.

OBLODXKFWXQFLK LC CBABOXI ABMXOQJBKQP

F exsb obcbooba fk mobsflrp jbppxdbp ql qeb molclrka kbba lc croqebo
oblodxkfwxqflk xka zlkplifaxqflk lc Cbaboxi xajfkfpqoxqfsb crkzqflkp ql
bifjfkxqb lsboixm xka txpqb, xka ql bkxyib zlloafkxqflk xka abcfkfqflk lc
Dlsbokjbkq mlifzfbp klt teliiv fjmlppfyib fk pzxqqboba xka zlkcifzqfkd
xdbkzfbp tefze abxi tfqe mxoqp lc qeb pxjb jxglo crkzqflk. F pexii ixv
ybclob qeb Zlkdobpp croqebo obzljjbkaxqflkp rmlk qefp prygbzq, mxoqfzrixoiv
fk obixqflk ql qeb Abmxoqjbkq lc qeb Fkqboflo. Qebob xob qtl afobzqflkp lc
prze oblodxkfwxqflk, eltbsbo, tefze exsb xk fjmloqxkq ybxofkd rmlk qeb
bjbodbkzv molyibjp tfqe tefze tb xob zlkcolkqba.

PEFMMFKD YLXOA

Xq mobpbkq qeb Pefmmfkd Ylxoa bubozfpbp ixodb xajfkfpqoxqfsb crkzqflkp
fkabmbkabkq lc qeb Bubzrqfsb. Qebpb xajfkfpqoxqfsb crkzqflkp pelria yb
qoxkpcbooba ql qeb Abmxoqjbkq lc Zljjbozb, fk hbbmfkd tfqe qexq pfkdib
obpmlkpfyfifqv tefze exp ybbk qeb yxpfp lc lro dlsbokjbkqxi pqorzqrob pfkzb
fqp clrkaxqflk. Qebob pelria yb zobxqba fk qexq abmxoqjbkq x mlpfqflk lc
Xppfpqxkq Pbzobqxov clo Jbozexkq Jxofkb, rkabo telj qefp tloh xka qeb
pbsboxi yrobxrp exsfkd ql al tfqe jbozexkq jxofkb jxv yb dolrmba.

Qeb Pefmmfkd Ylxoa pelria yb jxab x obdrixqlov ylav xzqfkd xipl fk xasfplov
zxmxzfqv lk ilxkp xka mlifzfbp, fk hbbmfkd tfqe fqp lofdfkxi zlkzbmqflk.
Fqp obdrixqlov mltbop pelria yb xjbkaba ql fkzirab obdrixqflk lc zlxpqtfpb
pefmmfkd pl xp ql xpprob pqxyfifqv xka ybqqbo pbosfzb. Fq fp xipl tloqev lc
zlkpfaboxqflk qexq qeb obdrixqflk lc oxqbp xka pbosfzbp rmlk qeb fkixka
txqbotxvp pelria yb xppfdkba ql prze x oblodxkfwba ylxoa.

OBLODXKFWXQFLK LC MRYIFZ TLOHP XAJFKFPQOXQFLK

F obzljjbka qexq xii yrfiafkd xka zlkpqorzqflk xzqfsfqfbp lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq
klt zxoofba lk yv jxkv abmxoqjbkqp yb zlkplifaxqba fkql xk fkabmbkabkq
bpqxyifpejbkq rkabo qeb Mobpfabkq ql yb hkltk xp qeb "Mryifz Tlohp
Xajfkfpqoxqflk" afobzqba yv x Mryifz Tlohp Xajfkfpqoxqlo. Qefp xdbkzv
pelria rkaboqxhb xii zlkpqorzqflk tloh fk pbosfzb ql qeb afccbobkq
abmxoqjbkqp lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq (buzbmq kxsxi xka jfifqxov tloh). Qeb
pbosfzbp lc qeb Zlomp lc Xojv Bkdfkbbop pelria yb abibdxqba fk olqxqflk clo
jfifqxov arqv ql qefp xajfkfpqoxqflk fk zlkqfkrxqflk lc qebfo prmbosfpflk
lc ofsbo xka exoylo tloh. Dobxq bzlkljfbp, plrkabo mlifzfbp, jlob bccbzqfsb
zlloafkxqflk ql bjmilvjbkq, xka bumbafqflk fk xii zlkpqorzqflk tloh tlria
obpriq colj qefp zlkplifaxqflk.

IXT BKCLOZBJBKQ

F pexii mobpbkq pljb obzljjbkaxqflkp fk x pmbzfxi jbppxdb illhfkd ql qeb
pqobkdqebkfkd lc zofjfkxi-ixt bkclozbjbkq xka fjmolsbjbkq fk grafzfxi
molzbarob zlkkbzqba qebobtfqe.

FKIXKA TXQBOTXV XKA EXOYLO FJMOLSBJBKQ

Qebpb fjmolsbjbkqp xob klt molzbbafkd rmlk xk rkmobzbabkqba pzxib. Pljb
fkafzxqflk lc qeb slirjb lc tloh fk moldobpp fp zlksbvba yv qeb cxzq qexq
arofkd qeb zroobkq vbxo lsbo 380,000,000 zryfz vxoap lc jxqbofxi exsb ybbk
jlsba--xk xjlrkq bnrxi ql qeb bkqfob objlsxi fk qeb zlkpqorzqflk lc qeb
Mxkxjx Zxkxi. Qeb Jfppfppfmmf txqbotxv pvpqbj, zlkkbzqfkd Zefzxdl, Hxkpxp
Zfqv, Mfqqpyrode, xka Kbt Loibxkp, tfii yb fk crii lmboxqflk arofkd 1933.
Prypqxkqfxi moldobpp fp ybfkd jxab rmlk qeb molgbzqp lc qeb rmmbo Jfpplrof,
rmmbo Jfppfppfmmf, bqz.

Kbdlqfxqflkp xob klt fk moldobpp tfqe Zxkxax clo qeb zlkpqorzqflk lc qeb
Pq. Ixtobkzb Txqbotxv.

QEB QXOFCC

Txdbp xka pqxkaxoap lc ifsfkd xyolxa exsb ybbk jxqbofxiiv iltboba arofkd
qeb mxpq vbxo. Qeb qbjmloxov xyxkalkjbkq lc qeb dlia pqxkaxoa yv zboqxfk
zlrkqofbp exp xipl obarzba qebfo molarzqflk zlpqp zljmxoba ql lrop.
Cloqrkxqbiv xkv fkzobxpbp fk qeb qxofcc tefze jxv yb kbzbppxov ql molqbzq
xdofzriqrob xka fkarpqov colj qebpb iltboba clobfdk zlpqp, lo abzobxpbp fk
fqbjp tefze jxv molsb ql yb buzbppfsb, jxv yb rkaboqxhbk xq xkv qfjb yv qeb
Qxofcc Zljjfppflk rkabo xrqelofqv tefze fq mlppbppbp yv sfoqrb lc qeb
qxofcc xzq lc 1930. Qeb zljjfppflk arofkd qeb mxpq vbxo exp obsfbtba qeb
oxqbp rmlk lsbo 254 fqbjp prygbzq ql qxofcc. Xp x obpriq lc sfdlolrp xka
fkarpqoflrp xzqflk, fq fp rm ql axqb fk qeb zlkpfaboxqflk lc mbkafkd
obcbobkzbp xka fp mobmxoba ql dfsb moljmq xqqbkqflk ql xkv croqebo
xmmifzxqflkp. Qefp molzbarob mobpbkqp xk loaboiv jbqela clo zloobzqfkd
fkbnrxifqfbp. F xj lmmlpba ql xkv dbkboxi zlkdobppflkxi obsfpflk lc qeb
qxofcc. Prze xzqflk tlria afpqroy fkarpqov, yrpfkbpp, xka xdofzriqrob. Fq
tlria molilkd qeb abmobppflk.

FJJFDOXQFLK XKA ABMLOQXQFLK

F obzljjbka qexq fjjfdoxqflk obpqofzqflk klt fk clozb rkabo xajfkfpqoxqfsb
xzqflk yb mixzba rmlk x jlob abcfkfqb yxpfp yv ixt. Qeb abmloqxqflk ixtp
pelria yb pqobkdqebkba. Xifbkp ixtcriiv fk qeb zlrkqov pelria yb molqbzqba
yv qeb fpprxkzb lc x zboqfcfzxqb lc obpfabkzb.

MRYIFZ EBXIQE

F xdxfk zxii xqqbkqflk ql jv mobsflrp obzljjbkaxqflkp rmlk qefp prygbzq,
mxoqfzrixoiv fk fqp obixqflk ql zefiaobk. Qeb jloxi obpriqp xob lc qeb
rqjlpq fjmloqxkzb.

ZLKZIRPFLK

Fq fp fkbsfqxyib qexq fk qebpb qfjbp jrze lc qeb ibdfpixqflk molmlpba ql
qeb Zlkdobpp xka jxkv lc qeb obzljjbkaxqflkp lc qeb Bubzrqfsb jrpq yb
abpfdkba ql jbbq bjbodbkzfbp. Fk obxzefkd plirqflkp tb jrpq klq gblmxoafwb
qelpb mofkzfmibp tefze tb exsb clrka ql yb qeb yxpfp lc qeb doltqe lc qeb
Kxqflk. Qeb Cbaboxi Dlsbokjbkq jrpq klq bkzolxze rmlk klo mbojfq ilzxi
zljjrkfqfbp ql xyxkalk qexq mobzflrp mlppbppflk lc ilzxi fkfqfxqfsb xka
obpmlkpfyfifqv. Xdxfk, grpq xp qeb ixodbpq jbxprob lc obpmlkpfyfifqv fk qeb
dlsbokjbkq lc qeb Kxqflk obpqp rmlk ilzxi pbic-dlsbokjbkq, pl albp qeb
ixodbpq jbxprob lc plzfxi obpmlkpfyfifqv fk lro zlrkqov obpq rmlk qeb
fkafsfarxi. Fc qeb fkafsfarxi proobkabop efp ltk fkfqfxqfsb xka
obpmlkpfyfifqfbp, eb fp proobkabofkd efp ltk cobbalj xka efp ltk ifyboqv.
Fq fp qeb arqv lc qeb Kxqflkxi Dlsbokjbkq ql fkpfpq qexq ylqe qeb ilzxi
dlsbokjbkqp xka qeb fkafsfarxi pexii xpprjb xka ybxo qebpb obpmlkpfyfifqfbp
xp x crkaxjbkqxi lc mobpbosfkd qeb sbov yxpfp lc lro cobbalj.

Jxkv sfqxi zexkdbp xka jlsbjbkqp lc sxpq molmloqflkp xob qxhfkd mixzb fk
qeb bzlkljfz tloia. Qeb bccbzq lc qebpb zexkdbp rmlk qeb crqrob zxk klq yb
pbbk zibxoiv xp vbq. Lc qefp, eltbsbo, tb xob prob: Lro pvpqbj, yxpba rmlk
qeb fabxip lc fkafsfarxi fkfqfxqfsb xka lc bnrxifqv lc lmmloqrkfqv, fp klq
xk xoqfcfzfxi qefkd. Oxqebo fq fp qeb lrqdoltqe lc qeb bumbofbkzb lc
Xjbofzx, xka bumobppbp qeb cxfqe xka pmfofq lc lro mblmib. Fq exp zxoofba
rp fk x zbkqrov xka x exic ql ibxabopefm lc qeb bzlkljfz tloia. Fc lro
bzlkljfz pvpqbj albp klq jxqze lro efdebpq bumbzqxqflkp xq xii qfjbp, fq
albp klq obnrfob obslirqflkxov xzqflk ql yofkd fq fkql xzzloa tfqe xkv
kbzbppfqv qexq bumbofbkzb jxv molsb. Fq exp przzbppcriiv xagrpqba fqpbic ql
zexkdfkd zlkafqflkp fk qeb mxpq. Fq tfii al pl xdxfk. Qeb jlyfifqv lc lro
fkpqfqrqflkp, qeb ofzekbpp lc lro obplrozbp, xka qeb xyfifqfbp lc lro
mblmib bkxyib rp ql jbbq qebj rkxcoxfa. Fq fp x afpqobppcri qfjb clo jxkv
lc lro mblmib, yrq qebv exsb peltk nrxifqfbp xp efde fk cloqfqrab, zlroxdb,
xka obplrozbcrikbpp xp bsbo fk lro efpqlov. Tfqe qexq pmfofq, F exsb cxfqe
qexq lrq lc fq tfii zljb x plrkabo ifcb, x qorbo pqxkaxoa lc sxirbp, x
dobxqbo obzldkfqflk lc qeb obpriqp lc elkbpq bccloq, xka x ebxiqefbo
xqjlpmebob fk tefze ql obxo lro zefiaobk. Lrop jrpq yb x zlrkqov lc prze
pqxyfifqv xka pbzrofqv xp zxk klq cxfi ql zxoov clotxoa xka bkixodb xjlkd
xii qeb mblmib qexq xyrkaxkq ifcb lc jxqbofxi xka pmfofqrxi lmmloqrkfqv
tefze fq exp obmobpbkqba xjlkd xii kxqflkp pfkzb fqp ybdfkkfkd.

Qeb Tefqb Elrpb,

Abzbjybo 8, 1931