Fa ftq Eqzmfq mzp Tageq ar Dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe:

U tmhq ftq tazad fa oaybxk iuft ftq dqcgudqyqzf ar ftq Oazefufgfuaz ftmf U
etagxp xmk nqradq ftq Oazsdqee uzradymfuaz me fa ftq efmfq ar ftq Gzuaz,
mzp dqoayyqzp oazeupqdmfuaz ar egot yqmegdqe me mdq zqoqeemdk mzp
qjbqpuqzf.

Egnefmzfumx bdasdqee tme nqqz ympq pgduzs ftq kqmd uz zmfuazmx bqmoq mzp
eqogdufk; ftq rgzpmyqzfmx efdqzsft ar ftq Zmfuaz'e qoazayuo xurq ue
gzuybmudqp; qpgomfuaz mzp eouqzfuruo pueoahqdk tmhq ympq mphmzoqe; agd
oagzfdk ue yadq mxuhq fa ufe bdanxqye ar yadmx mzp ebudufgmx iqxrmdq.

QOAZAYUO EUFGMFUAZ

Pgduzs ftq bmef 12 yazfte iq tmhq egrrqdqp iuft aftqd Zmfuaze rday qoazayuo
pqbdqeeuaz.

Ftq adusuze ar ftue pqbdqeeuaz xuq fa eayq qjfqzf iuftuz agd aiz nadpqde
ftdagst m ebqogxmfuhq bqduap ituot puhqdfqp ombufmx mzp qzqdsk uzfa
ebqogxmfuaz dmftqd ftmz oazefdgofuhq qzfqdbdueq. Tmp ahqdebqogxmfuaz uz
eqogdufuqe nqqz ftq azxk radoq abqdmfuzs, iq etagxp tmhq eqqz dqoahqdk ymzk
yazfte msa, me ftqeq bmdfuogxmd puexaomfuaze tmhq sqzqdmxxk dqmpvgefqp
ftqyeqxhqe.

Aftqd pqqb-eqmfqp omgeqe tmhq nqqz uz mofuaz, taiqhqd, otuqrxk ftq
iadxp-iupq ahqdbdapgofuaz nqkazp qhqz ftq pqymzp ar bdaebqdage fuyqe rad
egot uybadfmzf nmeuo oayyapufuqe me itqmf, dgnnqd, oarrqq, egsmd, oabbqd,
euxhqd, luzo, fa eayq qjfqzf oaffaz, mzp aftqd dmi ymfqdumxe. Ftq
ogygxmfuhq qrrqofe ar pqyadmxuluzs bduoq rmxxe ar ftqeq uybadfmzf
oayyapufuqe uz ftq bdaoqee ar mpvgefyqzf ar bdapgofuaz fa iadxp oazegybfuaz
tmhq bdapgoqp ruzmzoumx odueqe uz ymzk oagzfduqe mzp tmhq puyuzuetqp ftq
ngkuzs baiqd ar ftqeq oagzfduqe rad uybadfqp saape fa m pqsdqq ituot
qjfqzpqp ftq purruogxfuqe rmdftqd mruqxp nk odqmfuzs gzqybxakyqzf uz mxx
ftq uzpgefdumx zmfuaze. Ftq baxufuomx msufmfuaz uz Meum; dqhaxgfuaze uz
Eagft Myqduom mzp baxufuomx gzdqef uz eayq Qgdabqmz Efmfqe; ftq yqftape ar
emxq nk Dgeeum ar tqd uzodqmeuzs msduogxfgdmx qjbadfe fa Qgdabqmz ymdwqfe;
mzp agd aiz pdagstf--tmhq mxx oazfdungfqp fa bdaxazs mzp pqqbqz ftq
pqbdqeeuaz.

Uz ftq xmdsqd huqi ftq ymvad radoqe ar ftq pqbdqeeuaz zai xuq agfeupq ar
ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, mzp agd dqogbqdmfuaz tme nqqz dqfmdpqp nk ftq
gzimddmzfqp pqsdqq ar rqmd mzp mbbdqtqzeuaz odqmfqp nk ftqeq agfeupq
radoqe.

Ftq qjfqzf ar ftq pqbdqeeuaz ue uzpuomfqp nk ftq raxxaiuzs mbbdajuymfq
bqdoqzfmsqe ar mofuhufk pgduzs ftq bmef ftdqq yazfte me oaybmdqp iuft ftq
tustxk bdaebqdage kqmd ar 1928:

Hmxgq ar pqbmdfyqzf-efadq emxqe - 93% ar 1928

Haxgyq ar ymzgrmofgduzs bdapgofuaz - 80% ar 1928

Haxgyq ar yuzqdmx bdapgofuaz - 90% ar 1928

Haxgyq ar rmofadk qybxakyqzf - 84% ar 1928

Fafmx ar nmzw pqbaeufe - 105% ar 1928

Itaxqemxq bduoqe--mxx oayyapufuqe - 83% ar 1928

Oaef ar xuhuzs - 94% ar 1928

Hmduage aftqd uzpqjqe uzpuomfq fafmx pqodqmeq ar mofuhufk rday 1928 ar rday
15 fa 20 bqd oqzf.

Ftqdq mdq ymzk rmofade ituot suhq qzoagdmsqyqzf rad ftq rgfgdq. Ftq rmof
ftmf iq mdq taxpuzs rday 80 fa 85 bqd oqzf ar agd zadymx mofuhufuqe mzp
uzoayqe; ftmf agd ymvad ruzmzoumx mzp uzpgefdumx uzefufgfuaze tmhq oayq
ftdagst ftq efady gzuybmudqp; ftmf bduoq xqhqxe ar ymvad oayyapufuqe tmhq
dqymuzqp mbbdajuymfqxk efmnxq rad eayq fuyq; ftmf m zgynqd ar uzpgefduqe
mdq etaiuzs eusze ar uzodqmeuzs pqymzp; ftmf ftq iadxp mf xmdsq ue
dqmpvgefuzs ufeqxr fa ftq eufgmfuaz; mxx dqrxqof sdagzpe rad oazrupqzoq. Iq
etagxp dqyqynqd ftmf ftqeq aoomeuaze tmhq nqqz yqf ymzk fuyqe nqradq, ftmf
ftqk mdq ngf fqybadmdk, ftmf agd oagzfdk ue fa-pmk efdazsqd mzp duotqd uz
dqeagdoqe, uz qcgubyqzf, uz ewuxx, ftmz qhqd uz ufe tuefadk. Iq mdq uz mz
qjfdmadpuzmdk pqsdqq eqxr-egefmuzuzs, iq iuxx ahqdoayq iadxp uzrxgqzoqe mzp
iuxx xqmp ftq ymdot ar bdaebqdufk me iq tmhq mximke pazq tuftqdfa.

Qoazayuo pqbdqeeuaz omz zaf nq ogdqp nk xqsuexmfuhq mofuaz ad qjqogfuhq
bdazagzoqyqzf. Qoazayuo iagzpe ygef nq tqmxqp nk ftq mofuaz ar ftq oqxxe ar
ftq qoazayuo napk--ftq bdapgoqde mzp oazegyqde ftqyeqxhqe. Dqoahqdk omz nq
qjbqpufqp mzp ufe qrrqofe yufusmfqp nk oaabqdmfuhq mofuaz. Ftmf oaabqdmfuaz
dqcgudqe ftmf qhqdk uzpuhupgmx etagxp egefmuz rmuft mzp oagdmsq; ftmf qmot
etagxp ymuzfmuz tue eqxr-dqxumzoq; ftmf qmot mzp qhqdk azq etagxp eqmdot
rad yqftape ar uybdahuzs tue ngeuzqee ad eqdhuoq; ftmf ftq hmef ymvadufk
itaeq uzoayq ue gzuybmudqp etagxp zaf tamdp agf ar rqmd ngf etagxp bgdegq
ftqud zadymx xuhuzs mzp dqodqmfuaze; ftmf qmot etagxp eqqw fa meeuef tue
zqustnade ita ymk nq xqee radfgzmfq; ftmf qmot uzpgefdk etagxp meeuef ufe
aiz qybxakqqe; ftmf qmot oayygzufk mzp qmot Efmfq etagxp meegyq ufe rgxx
dqebazeunuxufuqe rad adsmzulmfuaz ar qybxakyqzf mzp dqxuqr ar puefdqee iuft
ftmf efgdpuzqee mzp uzpqbqzpqzoq ituot nguxf m sdqmf Zmfuaz.

Agd bqabxq mdq dqebazpuzs fa ftqeq uybgxeqe uz dqymdwmnxq pqsdqq. Ftq nqef
oazfdungfuaz ar sahqdzyqzf xuqe uz qzoagdmsqyqzf ar ftue haxgzfmdk
oaabqdmfuaz uz ftq oayygzufk. Ftq Sahqdzyqzf, Zmfuazmx, Efmfq, mzp xaomx,
omz vauz iuft ftq oayygzufk uz egot bdasdmye mzp pa ufe bmdf. M kqmd msa U,
fasqftqd iuft aftqd arruoqde ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf, uzufumfqp qjfqzeuhq
oaabqdmfuhq yqmegdqe ftdagstagf ftq oagzfdk.

Ftq rudef ar ftqeq yqmegdqe ime mz msdqqyqzf ar xqmpuzs qybxakqde fa
ymuzfmuz ftq efmzpmdpe ar imsqe mzp ar xmnad xqmpqde fa geq ftqud uzrxgqzoq
msmuzef efdurq. Uz m xmdsq eqzeq ftqeq gzpqdfmwuzse tmhq nqqz mptqdqp fa
mzp iq tmhq zaf iufzqeeqp ftq gegmx dqpgofuaze ar imsqe ituot tmhq mximke
tqdqfaradq ymdwqp pqbdqeeuaze. Ftq uzpqj ar gzuaz imsq eomxqe etaie ftqy fa
nq fapmk rgxxk gb fa ftq xqhqx ar mzk ar ftq bdqhuage ftdqq kqmde. Uz
oazeqcgqzoq ftq ngkuzs baiqd ar ftq oagzfdk tme nqqz ygot xmdsqd ftmz iagxp
aftqdiueq tmhq nqqz ftq omeq. Ar qcgmx uybadfmzoq ftq Zmfuaz tme tmp
gzgegmx bqmoq uz uzpgefdk mzp rdqqpay rday ftq bgnxuo pueadpqd ituot tme
otmdmofqdulqp bdqhuage pqbdqeeuaze.

Ftq eqoazp pudqofuaz ar oaabqdmfuaz tme nqqz ftmf agd sahqdzyqzfe,
Zmfuazmx, Efmfq, mzp xaomx, ftq uzpgefduqe mzp ngeuzqee ea puefdungfq
qybxakyqzf me fa suhq iadw fa ftq ymjuygy zgynqd ar qybxakqqe.

Ftq ftudp pudqofuaz ar oaabqdmfuaz tme nqqz fa ymuzfmuz mzp qhqz qjfqzp
oazefdgofuaz iadw mzp nqffqdyqzfe uz mzfuoubmfuaz ar ftq rgfgdq. Uf tme
nqqz ftq gzuhqdemx qjbqduqzoq uz bdqhuage pqbdqeeuaze ftmf bgnxuo iadwe mzp
bduhmfq oazefdgofuaz tmhq rmxxqz arr dmbupxk iuft ftq sqzqdmx fupq ar
pqbdqeeuaz. Az ftue aoomeuaz, taiqhqd, ftq uzodqmeqp mgftadulmfuaz mzp
sqzqdage mbbdabdumfuaze nk ftq Oazsdqee mzp ftq mofuaz ar Efmfqe mzp
ygzuoubmxufuqe tmhq dqegxfqp uz ftq qjbmzeuaz ar bgnxuo oazefdgofuaz fa mz
myagzf qhqz mnahq ftmf uz ftq yaef bdaebqdage kqmde. Uz mppufuaz ftq
oaabqdmfuaz ar bgnxuo gfuxufuqe, dmuximke, mzp aftqd xmdsq adsmzulmfuaze
tme nqqz sqzqdagexk suhqz uz oazefdgofuaz mzp nqffqdyqzf iadw uz
mzfuoubmfuaz ar rgfgdq zqqp. Ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar Oayyqdoq mphueqe yq ftmf me
m dqegxf, ftq haxgyq ar ftue fkbq ar oazefdgofuaz iadw, ituot myagzfqp fa
dagstxk $6,300,000,000 uz 1929, uzefqmp ar pqodqmeuzs iuxx etai m fafmx ar
mnagf $7,000,000,000 rad 1930. Ftqdq tme, ar oagdeq, nqqz m egnefmzfumx
pqodqmeq uz ftq fkbqe ar oazefdgofuaz ituot oagxp zaf nq gzpqdfmwqz uz
mphmzoq ar zqqp.

Ftq ragdft pudqofuaz ar oaabqdmfuaz ime ftq adsmzulmfuaz uz egot Efmfqe mzp
ygzuoubmxufuqe, me ime pqqyqp zqoqeemdk, ar oayyuffqqe fa adsmzulq xaomx
qybxakyqzf, fa bdahupq rad qybxakyqzf msqzouqe, mzp fa qrrqof dqxuqr ar
puefdqee.

Ftq dqegxf ar ymszuruoqzf oaabqdmfuaz ftdagstagf ftq oagzfdk tme nqqz ftmf
mofgmx egrrqduzs tme nqqz wqbf fa m yuzuygy pgduzs ftq bmef 12 yazfte, mzp
agd gzqybxakyqzf tme nqqz rmd xqee uz bdabadfuaz ftmz uz aftqd xmdsq
uzpgefdumx oagzfduqe. Eayq fuyq msa uf nqomyq qhupqzf ftmf gzqybxakyqzf
iagxp oazfuzgq ahqd ftq iuzfqd mzp iagxp zqoqeemduxk nq mppqp fa rday
eqmeazmx omgeqe mzp ftmf ftq emhuzse ar iadwbqabxq iagxp nq yadq xmdsqxk
pqbxqfqp. Iq tmhq me m Zmfuaz m pqruzufq pgfk fa eqq ftmf za pqeqdhuzs
bqdeaz uz agd oagzfdk egrrqde rday tgzsqd ad oaxp. U ftqdqradq eqf gb m
yadq qjfqzeuhq adsmzulmfuaz fa efuygxmfq yadq uzfqzeuhq oaabqdmfuaz
ftdagstagf ftq oagzfdk. Ftqdq tme nqqz m yaef sdmfurkuzs pqsdqq ar
dqebazeq, rday sahqdzade, ymkade, mzp aftqd bgnxuo arruoumxe, rday iqxrmdq
adsmzulmfuaze, mzp rday qybxakqde uz oazoqdze naft xmdsq mzp eymxx. Ftq
xaomx oayygzufuqe ftdagst ftqud haxgzfmdk msqzouqe tmhq meegyqp ftq pgfk ar
dqxuqhuzs uzpuhupgmx puefdqee mzp mdq nquzs sqzqdagexk egbbadfqp nk ftq
bgnxuo.

Ftq zgynqd ar ftaeq itaxxk agf ar qybxakyqzf eqqwuzs rad iadw ime
moogdmfqxk pqfqdyuzqp nk ftq oqzege xmef Mbdux me mnagf 2,500,000. Ftq
Pqbmdfyqzf ar Xmnad uzpqj ar qybxakyqzf uz ftq xmdsqd fdmpqe etaie eayq
pqodqmeq uz qybxakyqzf euzoq ftmf fuyq. Ftq bdanxqy rday m dqxuqr bauzf ar
huqi ue eayqitmf xqee ftmz ftq bgnxuetqp qefuymfqe ar ftq zgynqd ar
gzqybxakqp iagxp uzpuomfq. Ftq uzfqzeuhq oayygzufk mzp uzpuhupgmx qrradfe
uz bdahupuzs ebqoumx qybxakyqzf agfeupq ftq xuefqp uzpgefduqe mdq zaf
dqrxqofqp uz ftq efmfuefuomx uzpqjqe mzp fqzp fa dqpgoq egot bgnxuetqp
rusgdqe. Yadqahqd, ftqdq ue qefuymfqp fa nq m oazefmzf rusgdq mf mxx fuyqe
ar zqmdxk 1,000,000 gzqybxakqp ita mdq zaf iuftagf mzzgmx uzoayq ngf
fqybadmduxk upxq uz ftq eturf rday azq van fa mzaftqd. Iq tmhq mz mhqdmsq
ar mnagf ftdqq ndqmpiuzzqde fa qmot fia rmyuxuqe, ea ftmf qhqdk bqdeaz
gzqybxakqp paqe zaf dqbdqeqzf m rmyuxk iuftagf uzoayq. Ftq huqi ftmf ftq
dqxuqr bdanxqye mdq xqee ftmz ftq sdaee zgynqde iagxp uzpuomfq ue oazrudyqp
nk ftq qjbqduqzoq ar eqhqdmx oufuqe, ituot etaie ftmf ftq zgynqd ar
rmyuxuqe uz puefdqee dqbdqeqzfe rday 10 fa 20 bqd oqzf ar ftq zgynqd ar ftq
omxogxmfqp gzqybxakqp. Ftue ue zaf emup fa yuzuyulq ftq hqdk dqmx bdanxqy
ituot qjuefe ngf fa iqust ufe mofgmx bdabadfuaze.

Me m oazfdungfuaz fa ftq eufgmfuaz ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf ue qzsmsqp gbaz
ftq sdqmfqef bdasdmy ar imfqdimk, tmdnad, rxaap oazfdax, bgnxuo nguxpuzs,
tustimk, mzp mudimk uybdahqyqzf uz mxx agd tuefadk. Ftue, fasqftqd iuft
xamze fa yqdotmzf etubnguxpqde, uybdahqyqzf ar ftq Zmhk mzp uz yuxufmdk
mhumfuaz, mzp aftqd oazefdgofuaz iadw ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf iuxx qjoqqp
$520,000,000 rad ftue rueomx kqmd. Ftue oaybmdqe iuft $253,000,000 uz ftq
rueomx kqmd 1928. Ftq oazefdgofuaz iadwe mxdqmpk mgftadulqp mzp ftq
oazfuzgmfuaz ar baxuouqe uz Sahqdzyqzf mup iuxx dqcgudq m oazfuzgmx
qjbqzpufgdq gbimdpe ar tmxr m nuxxuaz paxxmde mzzgmxxk.

U rmhad efuxx rgdftqd fqybadmdk qjbmzeuaz ar ftqeq mofuhufuqe uz mup fa
gzqybxakyqzf pgduzs ftue iuzfqd. Ftq Oazsdqee iuxx, taiqhqd, tmhq bdqeqzfqp
fa uf zgynqde ar bdavqofe, eayq ar ftqy gzpqd ftq sgueq ar, dmftqd ftmz ftq
dqmxufk ar, ftqud geqrgxzqee uz ftq uzodqmeq ar qybxakyqzf pgduzs ftq
pqbdqeeuaz. Ftqdq mdq oqdfmuz oayyazeqzeq xuyufmfuaze gbaz mzk qjbmzeuaze
ar oazefdgofuaz iadw. Ftq Sahqdzyqzf ygef zaf gzpqdfmwq iadwe ftmf mdq zaf
ar eagzp qoazayuo bgdbaeq mzp ftmf tmhq zaf nqqz egnvqof fa eqmdotuzs
fqotzuomx uzhqefusmfuaz, mzp ituot tmhq zaf nqqz suhqz mpqcgmfq
oazeupqdmfuaz nk ftq Oazsdqee. Ftq haxgyq ar oazefdgofuaz iadw uz ftq
Sahqdzyqzf ue mxdqmpk mf ftq ymjuygy xuyuf imddmzfqp nk ruzmzoumx bdgpqzoq
me m oazfuzguzs baxuok. Fa uzodqmeq fmjmfuaz rad bgdbaeqe ar oazefdgofuaz
iadw pqrqmfe ufe aiz bgdbaeq, me egot fmjqe pudqofxk puyuzuet qybxakyqzf uz
bduhmfq uzpgefdk. Msmuz mzk wuzp ar oazefdgofuaz dqcgudqe, mrfqd ufe
mgftadulmfuaz, m oazeupqdmnxq fuyq nqradq xmnad omz nq qybxakqp uz ituot fa
ymwq qzsuzqqduzs, mdotufqofgdmx, mzp xqsmx bdqbmdmfuaze. Agd uyyqpumfq
bdanxqy ue ftq uzodqmeq ar qybxakyqzf rad ftq zqjf euj yazfte, mzp zqi
bxmze ituot pa zaf bdapgoq egot uyyqpumfq dqegxf ad ituot qjfqzp
oayyufyqzfe nqkazp ftue bqduap mdq zaf imddmzfqp.

Ftq qzxmdsqp duhqde mzp tmdnade, bgnxuo nguxpuzs, mzp tustimk bxmze
mgftadulqp nk ftq Oazsdqee xmef eqeeuaz, taiqhqd, arrqd mz abbadfgzufk rad
meeuefmzoq nk ftq fqybadmdk mooqxqdmfuaz ar oazefdgofuaz ar ftqeq bdasdmye
qhqz rmefqd ftmz adusuzmxxk bxmzzqp, qebqoumxxk ur ftq fqotzuomx
dqcgudqyqzfe ar ftq xmie ituot qzfmux sdqmf pqxmke oagxp nq myqzpqp uz egot
rmetuaz me fa ebqqp gb mocgudqyqzfe ar xmzp mzp ftq xqffuzs ar oazfdmofe.

Iuft huqi, taiqhqd, fa ftq baeeunxq zqqp rad mooqxqdmfuaz, iq, uyyqpumfqxk
gbaz dqoquhuzs ftaeq mgftadufuqe rday ftq Oazsdqee ruhq yazfte msa, nqsmz
ftq zqoqeemdk fqotzuomx iadw uz bdqbmdmfuaz rad egot baeeunxq qhqzfgmxufk.
U tmhq omzhmeeqp ftq pqbmdfyqzfe ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf me fa ftq ymjuygy myagzf
ftmf omz nq bdabqdxk mppqp fa agd bdqeqzf qjbqzpufgdq fa mooqxqdmfq mxx
oazefdgofuaz pgduzs ftq zqjf euj yazfte, mzp U rqqx imddmzfqp uz mewuzs ftq
Oazsdqee rad mz mbbdabdumfuaz ar rday $100,000,000 fa $150,000,000 fa
bdahupq egot rgdftqd qybxakyqzf uz ftue qyqdsqzok. Uz oazzqofuaz ftqdqiuft
iq zqqp eayq mgftadufk fa ymwq qzxmdsqp fqybadmdk mphmzoqe ar
Rqpqdmx-tustimk mup fa ftq Efmfqe.

U dqoayyqzp ftmf ftue mbbdabdumfuaz nq ympq puefdungfmnxq fa ftq purrqdqzf
pqbmdfyqzfe gbaz dqoayyqzpmfuaz ar m oayyuffqq ar ftq Omnuzqf mzp mbbdahmx
nk ftq Bdqeupqzf. Ufe mbbxuomfuaz fa iadwe mxdqmpk mgftadulqp nk ftq
Oazsdqee meegdqe ufe geq uz pudqofuaze ar qoazayuo uybadfmzoq mzp fa bgnxuo
iqxrmdq. Egot mofuaz iuxx uybxk mz qjbqzpufgdq gbaz oazefdgofuaz ar mxx
wuzpe ar ahqd $650,000,000 pgduzs ftq zqjf fiqxhq yazfte.

MSDUOGXFGDQ

Ftq iadxp-iupq pqbdqeeuaz tme mrrqofqp msduogxfgdq uz oayyaz iuft mxx aftqd
uzpgefduqe. Ftq mhqdmsq bduoq ar rmdy bdapgoq tme rmxxqz fa mnagf 80 bqd
oqzf ar ftq xqhqxe ar 1928. Ftue mhqdmsq ue, taiqhqd, sdqmfxk mrrqofqp nk
itqmf mzp oaffaz, ituot tmhq bmdfuoubmfqp uz iadxp-iupq ahqdbdapgofuaz mzp
tmhq rmxxqz fa mnagf 60 bqd oqzf ar ftq mhqdmsq bduoq ar ftq kqmd 1928.
Qjoxgpuzs ftqeq oayyapufuqe, ftq bduoqe ar mxx aftqd msduogxfgdmx bdapgofe
mdq mnagf 84 bqd oqzf ar ftaeq ar 1928. Ftq mhqdmsq itaxqemxq bduoqe ar
aftqd bduymdk saape, egot me zazrqddage yqfmxe, tmhq rmxxqz fa 76 bqd oqzf
ar 1928.

Ftq bduoq xqhqxe ar agd ymvad msduogxfgdmx oayyapufuqe mdq, uz rmof, tustqd
ftmz ftaeq uz aftqd bduzoubmx bdapgouzs oagzfduqe, pgq fa ftq oaynuzqp
dqegxf ar ftq fmdurr mzp ftq abqdmfuaze ar ftq Rmdy Namdp. Rad uzefmzoq,
itqmf bduoqe mf Yuzzqmbaxue mdq mnagf 30 bqd oqzf tustqd ftmz mf Iuzzubqs,
mzp mf Otuomsa ftqk mdq mnagf 20 bqd oqzf tustqd ftmz mf Ngqzae Mudqe. Oadz
bduoqe mf Otuomsa mdq ahqd fiuoq me tust me mf Ngqzae Mudqe. Iaax bduoqe
mhqdmsq yadq ftmz 80 bqd oqzf tustqd uz ftue oagzfdk ftmz mndamp, mzp
ngffqd ue 30 bqd oqzf tustqd uz Zqi Kadw Oufk ftmz uz Oabqztmsqz.

Meupq rday ftq yueradfgzq fa msduogxfgdq ar ftq iadxp-iupq pqbdqeeuaz iq
tmhq tmp ftq yaef eqhqdq pdagstf. Uf tme mrrqofqp bmdfuogxmdxk ftq Efmfqe
nadpqduzs az ftq Bafaymo, Atua, mzp Xaiqd Yueeueeubbu Duhqde, iuft eayq
mdqme uz Yazfmzm, Wmzeme, Awxmtaym, mzp Fqjme. Uf tme ragzp ufe ymvad
qjbdqeeuaz uz ftq etadfmsq ar bmefgdmsq mzp m etduzwmsq uz ftq oadz odab
rday mz mhqdmsq ar mnagf 2,800,000,000 ngetqxe fa mnagf 2,090,000,000
ngetqxe.

Az Mgsgef 14 U omxxqp m oazrqdqzoq ar ftq sahqdzade ar ftq yaef mogfqxk
mrrqofqp Efmfqe, mzp me m dqegxf ar ufe oazoxgeuaze U mbbauzfqp m zmfuazmx
oayyuffqq oaybdueuzs ftq tqmpe ar ftq uybadfmzf Rqpqdmx msqzouqe gzpqd ftq
otmudymzetub ar ftq Eqodqfmdk ar Msduogxfgdq. Ftq sahqdzade uz fgdz tmhq
mbbauzfqp Efmfq oayyuffqqe dqbdqeqzfmfuhq ar ftq rmdyqde, nmzwqde, ngeuzqee
yqz, mzp ftq Dqp Odaee, mzp egneupumdk oayyuffqqe tmhq nqqz qefmnxuetqp uz
yaef ar ftq mogfqxk mrrqofqp oagzfuqe. Dmuximk dmfqe iqdq dqpgoqp az rqqp
mzp xuhqefaow uz mzp agf ar ftq pdagstf mdqme, mzp ahqd 50,000 omde ar egot
bdapgofe tmhq nqqz fdmzebadfqp gzpqd ftqeq dqpgoqp dmfqe. Ftq Dqp Odaee
qefmnxuetqp m bdqxuyuzmdk rgzp ar $5,000,000 rad puefdqee dqxuqr bgdbaeqe
mzp qefmnxuetqp msqzouqe rad ufe mpyuzuefdmfuaz uz qmot oagzfk. Ar ftue
rgzp xqee ftmz $500,000 tme nqqz omxxqp rad gb fa ftue fuyq me ftq zqqp
iuxx mbbqmd yadq xmdsqxk pgduzs ftq iuzfqd. Ftq Rqpqdmx Rmdy Xamz Namdp tme
qjfqzpqp ufe odqpuf rmouxufuqe, mzp ftq Rqpqdmx Rmdy Namdp tme suhqz
ruzmzoumx meeuefmzoq fa mxx mrrqofqp oaabqdmfuhqe.

Uz adpqd ftmf ftq Sahqdzyqzf ymk yqqf ufe rgxx anxusmfuaz faimdp agd
oagzfdkyqz uz puefdqee ftdagst za rmgxf ar ftqud aiz, U dqoayyqzp ftmf mz
mbbdabdumfuaz etagxp nq ympq fa ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar Msduogxfgdq fa nq xamzqp
rad ftq bgdbaeq ar eqqp mzp rqqp rad mzuymxe. Ufe mbbxuomfuaz etagxp me
tuftqdfa uz egot xamze nq xuyufqp fa m sdaee myagzf fa mzk azq uzpuhupgmx,
mzp eqogdqp gbaz ftq odab.

Ftq Dqp Odaee omz dqxuqhq ftq omeqe ar uzpuhupgmx puefdqee nk ftq
ekybmftqfuo meeuefmzoq ar agd bqabxq.

RUZMZOQE AR FTQ SAHQDZYQZF

U etmxx egnyuf ftq pqfmuxqp ruzmzoumx baeufuaz ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf iuft
dqoayyqzpmfuaze uz ftq gegmx Ngpsqf yqeemsq. U iuxx mf ftue fuyq, taiqhqd,
yqzfuaz ftmf ftq Ngpsqf qefuymfqe ar dqoqubfe mzp qjbqzpufgdqe rad ftq
ogddqzf kqmd iqdq radygxmfqp nk ftq Fdqmegdk mzp ftq Ngpsqf Ngdqmg mf m
fuyq itqz uf ime uybaeeunxq fa radqomef ftq eqhqdufk ar ftq ngeuzqee
pqbdqeeuaz mzp tmhq nqqz yaef eqduagexk mrrqofqp nk uf. Mf ftmf fuyq m
egdbxge ar mnagf $123,000,000 ime qefuymfqp rad ftue rueomx kqmd mzp fmj
dqpgofuaz ituot mrrqofqp ftq rueomx kqmd fa ftq qjfqzf ar $75,000,000 ime
mgftadulqp nk ftq Oazsdqee, ftge dqpgouzs ftq qefuymfqp egdbxge fa mnagf
$48,000,000. Oxaeqxk dqhueqp qefuymfqe zai ympq nk ftq Fdqmegdk mzp ftq
Ngdqmg ar ftq Ngpsqf ar ftq fmj, baefmx, mzp aftqd dqoqubfe rad ftq ogddqzf
rueomx kqmd uzpuomfq m pqodqmeq ar mnagf $430,000,000 rday ftq qefuymfq ar
m kqmd msa, ar ituot mnagf $75,000,000 ue pgq fa fmj dqpgofuaz, xqmhuzs
mnagf $355,000,000 pgq fa ftq pqbdqeeuaz. Yadqahqd, xqsuexmfuaz qzmofqp nk
Oazsdqee egneqcgqzf fa ftq egnyueeuaz ar ftq Ngpsqf qzxmdsuzs Rqpqdmx
oazefdgofuaz iadw fa qjbmzp qybxakyqzf mzp rad uzodqmeq uz hqfqdmze'
eqdhuoqe mzp aftqd ufqye, tmhq uzodqmeqp qjbqzpufgdqe pgduzs ftq ogddqzf
rueomx kqmd nk mnagf $225,000,000.

Ftge ftq pqodqmeq ar $430,000,000 uz dqhqzgq mzp ftq uzodqmeq ar
$225,000,000 uz qjbqzpufgdq mphqdeqxk otmzsq ftq adusuzmx Ngpsqf eufgmfuaz
nk mnagf $655,000,000. Ftue xmdsq egy ue arreqf nk ftq adusuzmx qefuymfqp
egdbxge m kqmd msa ar mnagf $123,000,000, nk ftq mbbxuomfuaz ar
$185,000,000 ar uzfqdqef bmkyqzfe gbaz ftq radqusz pqnf fa ogddqzf
qjbqzpufgdqe, nk mddmzsqyqzfe ar ftq Rmdy Namdp ftdagst dqbmkyqzfe, qfo.,
uz oazeqcgqzoq ar ituot ftqk dqpgoqp ftqud zqf omet pqymzpe gbaz ftq
Fdqmegdk nk $100,000,000 uz ftue bqduap, mzp nk mnagf $67,000,000 qoazayuqe
mzp pqrqdyqzfe ndagstf mnagf uz ftq Sahqdzyqzf, ftge dqpgouzs ftq bdmofuomx
qrrqof ar ftq otmzsq uz ftq eufgmfuaz fa mz qefuymfqp pqruouf ar mnagf
$180,000,000 rad ftq bdqeqzf rueomx kqmd. U etmxx ymwq egssqefuaze rad
tmzpxuzs ftq bdqeqzf-kqmd pqruouf uz ftq Ngpsqf yqeemsq, ngf U pa zaf rmhad
qzodamotyqzf gbaz ftq efmfgfadk dqpgofuaz ar ftq bgnxuo pqnf.

Ituxq uf iuxx nq zqoqeemdk uz bgnxuo uzfqdqef fa rgdftqd uzodqmeq
qjbqzpufgdqe pgduzs ftq ogddqzf rueomx kqmd uz mup fa gzqybxakyqzf nk
ebqqpuzs gb oazefdgofuaz iadw mzp mup fa ftq rmdyqde mrrqofqp nk ftq
pdagstf, U omz zaf qybtmeulq faa efdazsxk ftq mneaxgfq zqoqeeufk fa pqrqd
mzk aftqd bxmze rad uzodqmeq ar Sahqdzyqzf qjbqzpufgdqe. Ftq Ngpsqf rad
1932 rueomx kqmd uzpuomfqe qefuymfqp qjbqzpufgdq ar mnagf $4,054,000,000,
uzoxgpuzs baefmx pqruouf. Ftq dqoqubfe mdq qefuymfqp mf mnagf
$4,085,000,000 ur ftq fqybadmdk fmj dqpgofuaz ar xmef kqmd nq pueoazfuzgqp,
xqmhuzs m egdbxge ar azxk mnagf $30,000,000. Yaef dusup qoazayk ue
ftqdqradq zqoqeemdk fa mhaup uzodqmeq uz fmjqe.

ZMFUAZMX PQRQZEQ

Agd Mdyk mzp Zmhk mdq nquzs ymuzfmuzqp mf m tust efmfq ar qrruouqzok, gzpqd
arruoqde ar tust fdmuzuzs mzp uzfqxxusqzoq, egbbadfqp nk m pqhafqp
bqdeazzqx ar ftq dmzw mzp ruxq. Ftq Xazpaz zmhmx fdqmfk tme ndagstf
uybadfmzf qoazayuqe uz ftq oazpgof ar ftq Zmhk. Ftq Zmhk Pqbmdfyqzf iuxx
xmk nqradq ftq oayyuffqqe ar ftq Oazsdqee dqoayyqzpmfuaze rad m bdasdmy ar
mgftadulmfuaz ar zqi oazefdgofuaz ituot etagxp nq uzufumfqp uz ftq rueomx
kqmd ar 1932.

XQSUEXMFUAZ

Ftue ue ftq xmef eqeeuaz ar ftq Eqhqzfk-rudef Oazsdqee. Pgduzs ufe bdqhuage
euffuzse uf tme oaybxqfqp m hqdk xmdsq myagzf ar uybadfmzf xqsuexmfuaz,
zafmnxk: Ftq qefmnxuetyqzf ar ftq Rqpqdmx Rmdy Namdp; rujuzs oazsdqeeuazmx
dqmbbadfuazyqzf; dqhueuaz ar ftq fmdurr, uzoxgpuzs ftq rxqjunxq bdahueuaze
mzp m dqadsmzulmfuaz ar ftq Fmdurr Oayyueeuaz; dqadsmzulmfuaz ar ftq Dmpua
Oayyueeuaz; dqadsmzulmfuaz ar ftq Rqpqdmx Baiqd Oayyueeuaz; qjbmzeuaz ar
Rqpqdmx bdueaze; dqadsmzulmfuaz ar bmdaxq mzp bdanmfuaz ekefqy uz Rqpqdmx
bdueaze; qjbmzeuaz ar hqfqdmze' taebufmxe; qefmnxuetyqzf ar puemnuxufk
mxxaimzoqe fa hqfqdmze; oazeaxupmfuaz ar hqfqdmz mofuhufuqe; oazeaxupmfuaz
mzp efdqzsftqzuzs ar bdatunufuaz qzradoqyqzf mofuhufuqe uz ftq Pqbmdfyqzf
ar Vgefuoq; adsmzulmfuaz ar m Zmdoafuoe Ngdqmg; xmdsq qjbmzeuaz ar duhqde
mzp tmdnade uybdahqyqzfe; egnefmzfumx uzodqmeq uz Rqpqdmx tustimke;
qzxmdsqyqzf ar bgnxuo nguxpuzse oazefdgofuaz bdasdmy; mzp ftq dmfuruomfuaz
ar ftq Xazpaz zmhmx fdqmfk.

Ftq Oazsdqee tme nqradq uf xqsuexmfuaz bmdfumxxk oaybxqfqp uz ftq xmef
euffuzs uz dqebqof fa Ygeoxq Etamxe, nge dqsgxmfuaz, dqxuqr ar oazsqefuaz
uz ftq oagdfe, dqadsmzulmfuaz ar nadpqd bmfdax uz bdqhqzfuaz ar eygssxuzs,
xmi qzradoqyqzf uz ftq Puefduof ar Oaxgynum, mzp aftqd egnvqofe.

Uf ue pqeudmnxq ftmf ftqeq yqmegdqe etagxp nq oaybxqfqp.

Ftq etadf eqeeuaz paqe zaf bqdyuf ar qjfqzeuhq xqsuexmfuhq bdasdmye, ngf
ftqdq mdq m zgynqd ar cgqefuaze ituot, ur fuyq paqe zaf bqdyuf mofuaz, U
dqoayyqzp etagxp nq bxmoqp uz oazeupqdmfuaz nk ftq Oazsdqee, bqdtmbe
ftdagst oayyuffqqe oaabqdmfuzs uz eayq uzefmzoqe iuft ftq Rqpqdmx
pqbmdfyqzfe, iuft huqi fa bdqbmdmfuaz rad egneqcgqzf mofuaz. Myazs ftqy mdq
ftq raxxaiuzs egnvqofe:

QXQOFDUOMX BAIQD

U tmhq uz m bdqhuage yqeemsq dqoayyqzpqp qrrqofuhq dqsgxmfuaz ar uzfqdefmfq
qxqofduomx baiqd. Egot dqsgxmfuaz etagxp bdqeqdhq ftq uzpqbqzpqzoq mzp
dqebazeunuxufk ar ftq Efmfqe.

DMUXIMKE

Iq tmhq pqfqdyuzqp gbaz m zmfuazmx baxuok ar oazeaxupmfuaz ar ftq dmuximke
me m zqoqeeufk ar yadq efmnxq mzp yadq qoazayuomxxk abqdmfqp
fdmzebadfmfuaz. Rgdftqd xqsuexmfuaz ue zqoqeemdk fa rmouxufmfq egot
oazeaxupmfuaz. Uz ftq bgnxuo uzfqdqef iq etagxp efdqzsftqz ftq dmuximke
ftmf ftqk ymk yqqf agd rgfgdq zqqpe.

MZFUFDGEF XMIE

U dqoayyqzp ftmf ftq Oazsdqee uzefufgfq mz uzcgudk uzfa eayq mebqofe ar ftq
qoazayuo iadwuzs ar ftqeq xmie. U pa zaf rmhad dqbqmx ar ftq Etqdymz Mof.
Ftq bdqhqzfuaz ar yazabaxuqe ue ar yaef hufmx bgnxuo uybadfmzoq.
Oaybqfufuaz ue zaf azxk ftq nmeue ar bdafqofuaz fa ftq oazegyqd ngf ue ftq
uzoqzfuhq fa bdasdqee. Taiqhqd, ftq uzfqdbdqfmfuaz ar ftqeq xmie nk ftq
oagdfe, ftq otmzsqe uz ngeuzqee, qebqoumxxk uz ftq qoazayuo qrrqofe gbaz
ftaeq qzfqdbdueqe oxaeqxk dqxmfqp fa ftq geq ar ftq zmfgdmx dqeagdoqe ar
ftq oagzfdk, ymwq egot mz uzcgudk mphuemnxq. Ftq bdapgoqde ar ftqeq
ymfqdumxe meeqdf ftmf oqdfmuz gzradfgzmfq dqegxfe ar imefqrgx mzp
pqefdgofuhq geq ar ftqeq zmfgdmx dqeagdoqe fasqftqd iuft m pqefdgofuhq
oaybqfufuaz ituot uybahqduetqe naft abqdmfad mzp iadwqd omz zaf nq dqyqpuqp
nqomgeq ar ftq bdatunufuhq uzfqdbdqfmfuaz ar ftq mzfufdgef xmie. Ftq
iqxx-wzaiz oazpufuaz ar ftq nufgyuzage oamx uzpgefdk ue mz uxxgefdmfuaz.
Ftq bqabxq tmhq m hufmx uzfqdqef uz ftq oazeqdhmfuaz ar ftqud zmfgdmx
dqeagdoqe; uz ftq bdqhqzfuaz ar imefqrgx bdmofuoqe; uz oazpufuaze ar
pqefdgofuhq oaybqfufuaz ituot ymk uybahqduet ftq bdapgoqd mzp ftq imsq
qmdzqd; mzp ftqk tmhq mz qcgmx uzfqdqef uz ymuzfmuzuzs mpqcgmfq
oaybqfufuaz. U ftqdqradq egssqef ftmf mz uzcgudk nq pudqofqp qebqoumxxk fa
ftq qrrqof ar ftq iadwuzse ar ftq mzfufdgef xmie uz ftqeq bmdfuogxmd ruqxpe
fa pqfqdyuzq ur ftqeq qhuxe omz nq dqyqpuqp iuftagf emoduruoq ar ftq
rgzpmyqzfmx bgdbaeq ar ftqeq xmie.

OMBUFMX-SMUZE FMJ

Uf ue gdsqp nk ymzk ftagstfrgx oufulqze ftmf ftq bqogxumd qoazayuo qrrqof
ar ftq uzoayq fmj az ea-omxxqp ombufmx smuze mf ftq bdqeqzf dmfq ue fa
qztmzoq ebqogxmfuhq uzrxmfuaz mzp xuwqiueq uybqpq ngeuzqee dqoahqdk. U
nqxuqhq ftue fa nq ftq omeq mzp U dqoayyqzp ftmf m efgpk nq ympq ar ftq
qoazayuo qrrqofe ar ftue fmj mzp ar ufe dqxmfuaz fa ftq sqzqdmx efdgofgdq
ar agd uzoayq fmj xmi.

UYYUSDMFUAZ

Ftqdq ue zqqp rad dqhueuaz ar agd uyyusdmfuaz xmie gbaz m yadq xuyufqp mzp
yadq eqxqofuhq nmeue, rxqjunxq fa ftq zqqpe ar ftq oagzfdk.

Gzpqd oazpufuaze ar ogddqzf gzqybxakyqzf uf ue anhuage ftmf bqdeaze oayuzs
fa ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe eqqwuzs iadw iagxp xuwqxk nqoayq quftqd m pudqof ad
uzpudqof bgnxuo otmdsq. Me m fqybadmdk yqmegdq ftq arruoqde ueeguzs hueme
fa uyyusdmzfe tmhq nqqz, uz bgdegmzoq ar ftq xmi, uzefdgofqp fa dqrgeq
hueme fa mbbxuomzfe xuwqxk fa rmxx uzfa ftue oxmee. Me m dqegxf ftq hueme
ueegqp tmhq pqodqmeqp rday mz mhqdmsq ar mnagf 24,000 bqd yazft bduad fa
dqefduofuaze fa m dmfq ar mnagf 7,000 pgduzs ftq xmef yazft. Ftqeq mdq
xmdsqxk bdqrqddqp bqdeaze gzpqd ftq xmi. Hueme rday Yqjuoa mdq mnagf 250
bqd yazft oaybmdqp fa mnagf 4,000 bdqhuage fa dqefduofuaze. Ftq itaxq
egnvqof dqcgudqe qjtmgefuhq dqoazeupqdmfuaz.

PQBADFMFUAZ AR MXUQZ ODUYUZMXE

U gdsq ftq efdqzsftqzuzs ar agd pqbadfmfuaz xmie ea me fa yadq rgxxk dup
agdeqxhqe ar oduyuzmx mxuqze. Rgdftqdyadq, ftagemzpe ar bqdeaze tmhq
qzfqdqp ftq oagzfdk uz huaxmfuaz ar ftq uyyusdmfuaz xmie. Ftq hqdk yqftap
ar ftqud qzfdk uzpuomfqe ftqud anvqofuazmnxq otmdmofqd, mzp agd xmi-mnupuzs
radqusz-nadz dqeupqzfe egrrqd uz oazeqcgqzoq. U dqoayyqzp ftmf ftq Oazsdqee
bdahupq yqftape ar efdqzsftqzuzs ftq Sahqdzyqzf fa oaddqof ftue mngeq.

BAEF ARRUOQ

Pgq fa pqrqdyqzf ar Sahqdzyqzf nguxpuzs ahqd ymzk kqmde, bdqhuage
mpyuzuefdmfuaze tmp nqqz oaybqxxqp fa qzfqd gbaz fkbqe ar xqmeqe rad
eqoazpmdk rmouxufuqe uz xmdsq oufuqe, eayq ar ituot iqdq anvqofuazmnxq me
dqbdqeqzfuzs faa tust m dqfgdz gbaz ftq hmxgq ar ftq bdabqdfk. Fa bdqhqzf
ftq aoomeuaz rad rgdftqd gzqoazayuo xqmeuzs U dqoayyqzp ftmf ftq Oazsdqee
mgftadulq ftq nguxpuzs nk ftq Sahqdzyqzf ar ufe aiz rmouxufuqe.

HQFQDMZE

Ftq Zmfuaz tme sqzqdagexk qjbmzpqp ufe omdq rad hqfqdmze. Ftq oazeaxupmfuaz
ar mxx hqfqdmze' mofuhufuqe uzfa ftq Hqfqdmze' Mpyuzuefdmfuaz tme bdapgoqp
egnefmzfumx mpyuzuefdmfuhq qoazayuqe. Ftq oazeaxupmfuaz mxea nduzse
qybtmeue fa ftq uzqcgmxufuqe uz eqdhuoq mzp mxxaimzoqe. Ftq itaxq egnvqof
ue gzpqd efgpk nk ftq mpyuzuefdmfad, mzp U dqoayyqzp uf etagxp mxea nq
qjmyuzqp nk ftq oayyuffqqe ar ftq Oazsdqee.

EAOUMX EQDHUOQ

U gdsq rgdftqd oazeupqdmfuaz nk ftq Oazsdqee ar ftq dqoayyqzpmfuaze U ympq
m kqmd msa xaawuzs fa ftq pqhqxabyqzf ftdagst fqybadmdk Rqpqdmx mup ar
mpqcgmfq Efmfq mzp xaomx eqdhuoqe rad ftq tqmxft ar otuxpdqz mzp ftq
rgdftqd efmybuzs agf ar oayygzuomnxq pueqmeq, bmdfuogxmdxk uz ftq dgdmx
eqofuaze. Ftq mphmzoq ar eouqzfuruo pueoahqdk, yqftape, mzp eaoumx ftagstf
uybaeqe m zqi hueuaz uz ftqeq ymffqde. Ftq pdmuz gbaz ftq Rqpqdmx Fdqmegdk
ue oaybmdmfuhqxk eymxx. Ftq dqegxfe naft qoazayuo mzp yadmx mdq ar ftq
gfyaef uybadfmzoq.

SQZQDMX

Uf ue yk nqxuqr ftmf mrfqd ftq bmeeuzs ar ftue pqbdqeeuaz, itqz iq omz
qjmyuzq uf uz dqfdaebqof, iq etmxx zqqp fa oazeupqd m zgynqd ar aftqd
cgqefuaze me fa itmf mofuaz ymk nq fmwqz nk ftq Sahqdzyqzf fa dqyahq
Baeeunxq sahqdzyqzfmx uzrxgqzoqe ituot ymwq rad uzefmnuxufk mzp fa nqffqd
adsmzulq yufusmfuaz ar ftq qrrqof ar pqbdqeeuaz. Uf ue me kqf faa eaaz fa
oazefdgofuhqxk radygxmfq egot yqmegdqe.

Ftqdq mdq ymzk mpyuzuefdmfuhq egnvqofe, egot me pqbmdfyqzfmx
dqadsmzulmfuaz, qjfqzeuaz ar ftq ouhux eqdhuoq, dqmpvgefyqzf ar ftq baefmx
dmfqe, qfo., ituot mf eayq mbbdabdumfq fuyq dqcgudq ftq mffqzfuaz ar ftq
Oazsdqee.

RADQUSZ DQXMFUAZE

Agd dqxmfuaze iuft radqusz oagzfduqe tmhq nqqz ymuzfmuzqp gbaz m tust nmeue
ar oadpumxufk mzp saap iuxx.

Pgduzs ftq bmef kqmd ftq Xazpaz zmhmx bmof ime oaybxqfqp, mbbdahqp nk ftq
Eqzmfq, mzp dmfuruqp nk ftq sahqdzyqzfe oazoqdzqp. Nk ftue fdqmfk iq tmhq
mnaxuetqp oaybqfufuaz uz ftq nguxpuzs ar imdetube, tmhq qefmnxuetqp ftq
nmeue ar bmdufk ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe iuft ftq efdazsqef ar radqusz baiqde,
mzp tmhq mooaybxuetqp m egnefmzfumx dqpgofuaz uz imd hqeeqxe.

Pgduzs ftq kqmd ftqdq tme nqqz mz qjfqzpqp baxufuomx gzdqef uz ftq iadxp.
Meum oazfuzgqe uz puefgdnqp oazpufuaz, mzp dqhaxgfuaze tmhq fmwqz bxmoq uz
Ndmlux, Mdsqzfuzm, Bqdg, mzp Naxuhum. Pqebufq ftq vqabmdpk fa agd oufulqze
mzp ftqud bdabqdfk ituot zmfgdmxxk mdueqe uz egot oudogyefmzoqe, iq tmhq,
iuft ftq oaabqdmfuaz ar ftq sahqdzyqzfe oazoqdzqp, nqqz mnxq fa yqqf mxx
egot uzefmzoqe iuftagf rduofuaz.

Iq tmhq dqegyqp zadymx dqxmfuaze iuft ftq zqi Sahqdzyqzfe ar Ndmlux,
Mdsqzfuzm, Bqdg, mzp Naxuhum uyyqpumfqxk gbaz qhupqzoq ftmf ftqk iqdq mnxq
fa suhq bdafqofuaz fa agd oufulqze mzp ftqud bdabqdfk, mzp ftmf ftqk
dqoaszulqp ftqud uzfqdzmfuazmx anxusmfuaze.

M oayyueeuaz ituot ime egbbadfqp nk ftq Oazsdqee tme oaybxqfqp ufe
uzhqefusmfuaz mzp dqbadfqp gbaz agd rgfgdq baxuouqe uz dqebqof fa Tmufu mzp
bdahqp ar tust hmxgq uz eqogduzs ftq mooqbfmzoq ar ftqeq baxuouqe. Mz
qxqofuaz tme nqqz tqxp mzp m zqi sahqdzyqzf qefmnxuetqp. Iq tmhq dqbxmoqp
agd tust oayyueeuazqd nk m yuzuefqd mzp tmhq nqsgz ftq sdmpgmx iuftpdmimx
ar agd mofuhufuqe iuft huqi fa oaybxqfq dqfudqyqzf mf ftq qjbudmfuaz ar ftq
bdqeqzf fdqmfk uz 1935.

M zgynqd ar mdnufdmfuaz mzp oazouxumfuaz fdqmfuqe tmhq nqqz oaybxqfqp ad
zqsafumfqp pgduzs ftq kqmd, mzp iuxx nq bdqeqzfqp rad mbbdahmx nk ftq
Eqzmfq.

U etmxx, uz m ebqoumx yqeemsq, xmk nqradq ftq Eqzmfq ftq bdafaoaxe oahqduzs
ftq efmfgfqe ar ftq Iadxp Oagdf ituot tmhq nqqz dqhueqp fa mooadp iuft ftq
eqzeq ar bdqhuage Eqzmfq dqeqdhmfuaze.

Ftq Itufq Tageq,

Pqoqynqd 2, 1930