Lkrruc Iozofkty ul znk Yktgzk gtj ul znk Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky:

Oz mobky sk vrkgyaxk zu iutmxgzargzk eua avut euax xkzaxt zu znk ykgz
ul Mubkxtsktz lux znk vaxvuyk ul joyingxmotm euax jazoky zu znk vkuvrk
ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Grznuamn znk vkyzorktik cnoin ngj zxgbkxykj znk
Urj Cuxrj ngy ktzkxkj uax rosozy gtj kdzktjkj ozy xgbgmky ubkx sain ul
uax rgtj, oz ngy vrkgykj Grsomnze Muj zu sozomgzk ozy ykbkxoze gtj
rkyykt znk tashkx ul ozy boizosy iusvgxkj cozn znuyk cnu ngbk lgrrkt ot
suyz uznkx iuatzxoky ubkx cnoin oz ngy yvxkgj ozy zkxxuxy. Tuz cozn
yzgtjotm znoy boyozgzout, uax iuatzxe vxkyktzy ut kbkxe yojk sgxqy ul
vxuyvkxoze gtj ngvvotkyy atkwagrkj, vkxngvy, ot gte uznkx vuxzout ul
znk cuxrj. Ol ck larre gvvxkiogzk uax iusvgxgzobk iutjozout, kdoyzotm
igayky ul joyiutzktz corr gvvkgx atcuxzne ul gzzktzout, gtj, cozn
nkgxzy ul zngtqlartkyy zu zngz jobotk Hkotm cnu ngy lorrkj uax iav ul
vxuyvkxoze, ck yngrr lkkr uax xkyurazout yzxktmznktkj zu vxkykxbk gtj
ngtj juct zu uax vuyzkxoze zngz rohkxze gtj zngz atout cnoin ck ngbk
xkikobkj lxus uax lgznkxy, gtj cnoin iutyzozazk znk yuaxiky gtj znk
ynokrj ul grr uax hrkyyotmy.

Znk xkrgzouty ul uax iuatzxe iutzotak zu vxkyktz znk ygsk voizaxk ul
gsoighrk otzkxiuaxyk zngz O ngj znk ygzoylgizout zu nurj av zu euax
bokc gz znk uvktotm ul euax rgyz ykyyout. Znk ygsk lxoktjre
vxulkyyouty, znk ygsk jkyoxk zu vgxzoiovgzk ot uax lruaxoynotm
iusskxik, znk ygsk joyvuyozouty, kbotikj he grr tgzouty cozn cnus ck
ngbk gte otzkxiuaxyk. Znoy jkyoxghrk yzgzk ul znotmy sge hk sgotre
gyixohkj zu uax atjkbogzotm vxgizoik ul znk xark cnoin ngy rutm maojkj
uax tgzoutgr vuroie, zu xkwaoxk tu kdirayobk vxoborkmky ot iusskxik gtj
zu mxgtz tutk. Oz oy jgore vxujaiotm ozy hktkloiogr kllkiz ot znk
xkyvkiz ynuct zu uax lrgm, znk vxuzkizout ul uax iozofkty gtj znkox
vxuvkxze ghxugj, gtj ot znk otixkgyk ul uax tgbomgzout gtj znk
kdzktyout ul uax skxigtzork uvkxgzouty. Znk xkzaxty cnoin ngbk hkkt
sgjk uaz yotik ck rgyz skz corr ynuc gt otixkgyk jaxotm znk rgyz
vxkikjotm ekgx ul suxk zngt 80 znuaygtj zuty ot uax ynovvotm gtj ul
tkgx $40,000,000 ot znk gmmxkmgzk ul uax osvuxzy gtj kdvuxzy.

Tux ngbk ck rkyy xkgyut zu lkroiozgzk uaxykrbky ut znk vuyozout ul uax
vurozoigr zngt ul uax iusskxiogr iutikxty. Znke xksgot ot znk yzgzk ot
cnoin znke ckxk cnkt O rgyz gjjxkyykj eua--g yzgzk ul vxuyvkxoze gtj
vkgik, znk kllkiz ul g coyk gzzktzout zu znk vgxzotm gjboik ul znk
xkbkxkj Lgznkx ul noy Iuatzxe ut znoy yahpkiz, iutjktykj otzu g sgdos
lux znk ayk ul vuyzkxoze he utk ul noy suyz joyzotmaoynkj
yaiikyyuxy--zu iarzobgzk lxkk iusskxik gtj nutkyz lxoktjynov cozn grr
tgzouty, haz zu sgqk ktzgtmrotm grrogtiky cozn tutk. G yzxoiz gjnkxktik
zu znoy vuroie ngy qkvz ay gruul lxus znk vkxvrkdotm wakyzouty zngz tuc
gmozgzk znk Kaxuvkgt cuxrj gtj ngbk suxk zngt utik jkramkj znuyk
iuatzxoky cozn hruuj. Ynuarj znuyk yiktky atluxzatgzkre xkiax, znk
vgxzoky zu znk iutzkyz sge iuatz ut g lgoznlar vkxluxsgtik ul znk
jazoky otiashktz ut ay gy g tkazxgr tgzout, gtj uax uct iozofkty sge
kwagrre xkre ut znk loxs gyykxzout ul znkox tkazxgr xomnzy.

Cozn znk tgzout zngz cgy uax kgxrokyz lxoktj gtj grre ot znk otlgtie ul
uax vurozoigr kdoyzktik znk suyz lxoktjre xkrgzouty ngbk yahyoyzkj
znxuamn znk rgzk xkburazouty ul ozy Mubkxtsktz, gtj, lxus znk kbktzy ul
znk rgyz, vxusoyk g vkxsgtktz jaxgzout. Oz ngy sgjk gt gvvxudosgzout ot
yusk ul ozy vurozoigr otyzozazouty zu uax uct, gtj xgoykj g sutgxin zu
znk znxutk cnu vxkykxbky, oz oy ygoj, g lxoktjre xkiurrkizout ul znk
vkxouj jaxotm cnoin nk giwaoxkj gsutm uax iozofkty znk nomn
iutyojkxgzout zngz iuarj znkt ngbk hkkt vxujaikj he noy vkxyutgr
wagroloigzouty grutk.

Uax iusskxik cozn zngz tgzout oy mxgjagrre gyyasotm g sazagrre
hktkloiogr ingxgizkx, gtj znk gjpayzsktz ul znk irgosy ul uax iozofkty
ngy xksubkj znk utre uhyzgirk znkxk cgy zu gt otzkxiuaxyk tuz utre
raixgzobk, haz vxujaizobk ul rozkxgxe gtj yioktzoloi osvxubksktz.

Lxus Mxkgz Hxozgot O ngbk znk ygzoylgizout zu otluxs eua zngz O
iutzotak zu xkikobk gyyaxgtiky ul znk suyz gsoighrk joyvuyozout, cnoin
ngbk ut se vgxz ut grr vxuvkx uiigyouty hkkt vxusvzre gtj yotikxkre
xkiovxuigzkj. Znk gzzktzout ul zngz Mubkxtsktz ngy rgzzkxre hkkt yu
sain ktmxuyykj he sgzzkxy ul g jkkvre otzkxkyzotm juskyzoi ingxgizkx
zngz ck iuarj tuz vxkyy avut oz znk xktkcgr ul tkmuzogzouty cnoin ngj
hkkt atluxzatgzkre hxuqkt ull he znk atkdvkizkj xkigrr ul uax sotoyzkx,
cnu ngj iussktikj znks cozn yusk nuvky ul yaiikyy. Se mxkgz uhpkiz cgy
znk ykzzrksktz ul wakyzouty cnoin, znuamn tuc juxsgtz, somnz nkxk-glzkx
hk xkbobkj atjkx ioxiasyzgtiky zngz cuarj ktjgtmkx znk muuj
atjkxyzgtjotm cnoin oz oy znk otzkxkyz ul huzn vgxzoky zu vxkykxbk
otbourgzk, iksktzkj gy oz oy he g iussatoze ul rgtmagmk, sgttkxy, gtj
yuiogr nghozy, gtj he znk nomn uhromgzouty ck uck zu uax Hxozoyn
gtikyzuxy lux sgte ul uax suyz bgraghrk otyzozazouty gtj lux zngz
yeyzks ul xkvxkyktzgzobk mubkxtsktz cnoin ngy ktghrkj ay zu vxkykxbk
gtj osvxubk znks.  Znk wakyzout ul uax Tuxzn-Kgyz huatjgxe yzorr
xksgoty atykzzrkj. Ot se rgyz gttagr skyygmk O kdvrgotkj zu eua znk
yozagzout ot cnoin O luatj zngz hayotkyy ut se iusotm otzu ulloik, gtj
znk skgyaxky O znuamnz oz se jaze zu vaxyak lux gyykxzotm znk xomnzy ul
znk Atozkj Yzgzky hkluxk znk yubkxkomt cnu ngj hkkt inuykt he se
vxkjkikyyux zu jkzkxsotk znk wakyzout, gtj gryu znk sgttkx ot cnoin nk
ngj joyvuykj ul oz. G yvkiogr skyygmk zu znk Yktgzk ot znkox kdkiazobk
igvgioze glzkxcgxjy hxuamnz hkluxk znks zu znk wakyzout cnkznkx znke
cuarj gjboyk g yahsoyyout zu znk uvotout ul znk yubkxkomt gxhozkx. Zngz
huje ngbotm iutyojkxkj znk gcgxj gy tuz uhromgzuxe gtj gjboykj sk zu
uvkt g laxznkx tkmuzogzout, znk vxuvuyozout cgy osskjogzkre sgjk zu znk
Hxozoyn Mubkxtsktz, haz znk ioxiasyzgtiky zu cnoin O ngbk grrajkj ngbk
noznkxzu vxkbktzkj gte gtyckx hkotm mobkt zu znk ubkxzaxk. Kgxre
gzzktzout, nuckbkx, ngy hkkt vxusoykj zu znk yahpkiz, gtj kbkxe klluxz
ut se vgxz corr hk sgjk lux g ygzoylgizuxe ykzzrksktz ul znoy wakyzout,
otzkxkyzotm zu znk Atout mktkxgrre, gtj vgxzoiargxre yu zu utk ul ozy
skshkxy.

Znk irgosy ul uax iozofkty ut Yvgot gxk tuz ekz giqtucrkjmkj. Ut g
iruykx otbkyzomgzout ul znks zngt gvvkgxy zu ngbk nkxkzuluxk zgqkt
vrgik oz cgy joyiubkxkj zngz yusk ul znkyk jksgtjy, nuckbkx yzxutm znke
somnz hk avut znk kwaoze ul zngz Mubkxtsktz, ckxk tuz yain gy iuarj hk
sgjk znk yahpkiz ul tgzoutgr otzkxlkxktik; gtj lgoznlar zu znk
vxotiovrk ul gyqotm tuznotm haz cngz cgy irkgxre xomnz, gjjozoutgr
otyzxaizouty ngbk hkkt yktz zu sujole uax jksgtjy yu gy zu kshxgik
znuyk utre ut cnoin, giiuxjotm zu znk rgcy ul tgzouty, ck ngj g yzxoiz
xomnz zu otyoyz. Gt otkbozghrk jkrge ot vxuiaxotm znk juiasktzy
tkikyygxe lux znoy xkbokc ul znk skxozy ul znkyk irgosy xkzgxjkj znoy
uvkxgzout atzor gt atluxzatgzk sgrgje cnoin ngy gllroizkj Noy Igznuroi
Sgpkyze vxkbktzkj gt kdgsotgzout ul znks. Hkotm tuc lux znk loxyz zosk
vxkyktzkj ot gt atkdikvzoutghrk luxs, oz oy iutlojktzre nuvkj zngz znk
gvvroigzout corr hk yaiikyylar.

O ngbk znk ygzoylgizout zu otluxs eua zngz znk gvvroigzout O joxkizkj
zu hk sgjk lux znk jkrobkxe ul g vgxz ul znk gxinobky ul Lruxojg, cnoin
ngj hkkt igxxokj zu Znk Ngbgttgn, ngy vxujaikj g xuegr uxjkx lux znkox
jkrobkxe, gtj zngz skgyaxky ngbk hkkt zgqkt zu vxuiaxk ozy kdkiazout.

He znk xkvuxz ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul Yzgzk iussatoigzkj zu eua ut Patk
25zn, 1832 eua ckxk otluxskj ul znk iutjozoutgr xkjaizout uhzgotkj he
znk sotoyzkx ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky gz Sgjxoj ul znk jazoky ut zuttgmk
rkbokj ut Gskxoigt ynovvotm ot znk vuxzy ul Yvgot. Znk iutjozout ul
zngz xkjaizout ngbotm hkkt iusvrokj cozn ut uax vgxz he znk giz vgyykj
Pare 13zn, 1832, O ngbk znk ygzoylgizout zu otluxs eua zngz uax ynovy
tuc vge tu nomnkx tux uznkx jazoky ot znk iutzotktzgr vuxzy ul Yvgot
zngt gxk rkbokj ut znkox tgzoutgr bkyykry.

Znk jksgtjy gmgotyz Vuxzamgr lux orrkmgr igvzaxky ot znk hruiqgjk ul
Zkxikoxg ngbk hkkt grruckj zu znk larr gsuatz ul znk giiuatzy vxkyktzkj
he znk irgosgtzy, gtj vgesktz cgy vxusoykj zu hk sgjk ot znxkk
otyzgrrsktzy. Znk loxyz ul znkyk ngy hkkt vgoj; znk ykiutj, grznuamn
jak, ngj tuz gz znk jgzk ul uax rgyz gjboiky hkkt xkikobkj, ucotm, oz
cgy grrkmkj, zu kshgxxgyysktzy ot znk lotgtiky iutykwaktz ut znk iobor
cgx ot cnoin zngz tgzout oy ktmgmkj.

Znk vgesktzy yzovargzkj he znk iutbktzout cozn Jktsgxq ngbk hkkt
vatizagrre sgjk, gtj znk gsuatz oy xkgje lux joyzxohazout gsutm znk
irgosgtzy gy yuut gy znk hugxj, tuc yozzotm, yngrr ngbk vkxluxskj znkox
latizouty.

O xkmxkz zngz he znk rgyz gjboiky lxus uax ingxmk j'gllgoxky gz Tgvrky
zngz Mubkxtsktz ngj yzorr jkrgekj znk ygzoylgizout jak zu uax iozofkty,
haz gz zngz jgzk znk kllkiz ul znk rgyz otyzxaizouty cgy tuz qtuct.
Joyvgzinky lxus znktik gxk nuaxre kdvkizkj, gtj znk xkyarz corr hk
iussatoigzkj zu eua coznuaz jkrge.

Cozn znk xkyz ul Kaxuvk uax xkrgzouty, vurozoigr gtj iusskxiogr, xksgot
atingtmkj. Tkmuzogzouty gxk muotm ut zu vaz ut g vkxsgtktz hgyoy znk
rohkxgr yeyzks ul iusskxik tuc igxxokj ut hkzckkt ay gtj znk Ksvoxk ul
Xayyog. Znk zxkgze iutirajkj cozn Gayzxog oy kdkiazkj he Noy Osvkxogr
Sgpkyze cozn znk suyz vkxlkiz muuj lgozn, gtj gy ck ngbk tu jovrusgzoi
gmktz gz noy Iuaxz nk vkxyutgrre otwaoxkj otzu gtj iuxxkizkj g
vxuikkjotm ul yusk ul noy yahgrzkxt ulloikxy zu znk otpaxe ul uax
iutyar ot utk ul noy vuxzy.

Uax zxkgze cozn znk Yahrosk Vuxzk oy vxujaiotm ozy kdvkizkj kllkizy ut
uax iusskxik. Tkc sgxqkzy gxk uvktotm lux uax iussujozoky gtj g suxk
kdzktyobk xgtmk lux znk ksvruesktz ul uax ynovy. G yromnz gamsktzgzout
ul znk jazoky ut uax iusskxik, otiutyoyzktz cozn znk yvoxoz ul znk
zxkgze, ngj hkkt osvuykj, haz ut znk xkvxkyktzgzout ul uax ingxmk
j'gllgoxky oz ngy hkkt vxusvzre coznjxgct, gtj ck tuc ktpue znk zxgjk
gtj tgbomgzout ul znk Hrgiq Ykg gtj ul grr znk vuxzy hkrutmotm zu znk
Zaxqoyn Ksvoxk gtj Gyog ut znk suyz vkxlkiz kwagroze cozn grr luxkomt
tgzouty.

O coyn kgxtkyzre zngz ot gttuatiotm zu eua znk iutzotagtik ul
lxoktjynov gtj znk otixkgyk ul g vxulozghrk iusskxiogr otzkxiuaxyk cozn
Skdoiu, cozn Iktzxgr Gskxoig, gtj znk Yzgzky ul znk Yuazn O iuarj
giiusvgte oz cozn znk gyyaxgtik zngz znke grr gxk hrkyykj cozn zngz
otzkxtgr zxgtwaorroze gtj luxkomt vkgik cnoin znkox nkxuoi jkbuzout zu
znk igayk ul znkox otjkvktjktik skxozy. Ot Skdoiu g ygtmaotgxe yzxammrk
oy tuc igxxokj ut, cnoin ngy igaykj yusk kshgxxgyysktz zu uax iusskxik,
haz huzn vgxzoky vxulkyy znk suyz lxoktjre joyvuyozout zucgxj ay. Zu
znk zkxsotgzout ul znoy iutzkyz ck ruuq lux znk kyzghroynsktz ul zngz
ykiaxk otzkxiuaxyk yu tkikyygxe zu tgzouty cnuyk zkxxozuxoky gxk
iutzomauay. Nuc osvuxzgtz oz corr hk zu ay ck sge igriargzk lxus znk
lgiz zngz kbkt ot znoy atlgbuxghrk yzgzk ul znotmy uax sgxozosk
iusskxik ngy otixkgykj, gtj gt otzkxtgr zxgjk he igxgbgty lxus Yz.
Ruaoy zu Ygtzg Lk, atjkx znk vxuzkizout ul kyiuxzy laxtoynkj he znk
Mubkxtsktz, oy igxxokj ut zu mxkgz gjbgtzgmk gtj oy jgore otixkgyotm.
Znk gmktzy vxubojkj lux he znk zxkgze, cozn znoy vuckx zu jkyomtgzk znk
huatjgxoky cnoin oz kyzghroynkj, ngbk hkkt tgskj ut uax vgxz, haz utk
ul znk kbory ul znk iobor cgx tuc xgmotm znkxk ngy hkkt zngz znk
gvvuotzsktz ul znuyk cozn cnus znke ckxk zu iuuvkxgzk ngy tuz ekz hkkt
gttuatikj zu ay.

Znk Mubkxtsktz ul Iktzxgr Gskxoig ngy kdvkrrkj lxus ozy zkxxozuxe znk
vgxze cnoin yusk zosk yotik joyzaxhkj ozy vkgik. Jkyoxuay ul luyzkxotm
g lgbuxghrk joyvuyozout zucgxj ay, cnoin ngy ut suxk zngt utk uiigyout
hkkt kbotikj he znoy otzkxkyzotm iuatzxe, O sgjk g ykiutj gzzksvz ot
znoy ekgx zu kyzghroyn g jovrusgzoi otzkxiuaxyk cozn znks; haz znk
jkgzn ul znk joyzotmaoynkj iozofkt cnus O ngj gvvuotzkj lux zngz
vaxvuyk ngy xkzgxjkj znk kdkiazout ul skgyaxky lxus cnoin O nuvkj sain
gjbgtzgmk zu uax iusskxik. Znk atout ul znk znxkk Yzgzky cnoin luxskj
znk Xkvahroi ul Iurushog ngy hkkt joyyurbkj, haz znke grr, oz oy
hkrokbkj, iutyojkx znksykrbky gy ykvgxgzkre huatj he znk zxkgze cnoin
cgy sgjk ot znkox lkjkxgr igvgioze. Znk sotoyzkx giixkjozkj zu znk
lkjkxgzout iutzotaky ot zngz ingxgizkx tkgx znk Mubkxtsktz ul Tkc
Mxktgjg, gtj nuvky ckxk ktzkxzgotkj zngz g tkc atout cuarj hk luxskj
hkzckkt znk ykvgxgzk Yzgzky, gz rkgyz lux znk vaxvuyky ul luxkomt
otzkxiuaxyk. Uax sotoyzkx ngy hkkt otyzxaizkj zu ayk noy muuj ulloiky,
cnkt kbkx znke yngrr hk jkyoxkj, zu vxujaik znk xkatout yu sain zu hk
coynkj lux, znk juskyzoi zxgtwaorroze ul znk vgxzoky, gtj znk ykiaxoze
gtj lgioroze ul luxkomt iusskxik.

Yusk gmozgzouty tgzaxgrre gzzktjgtz ut gt otlgtz xkomt ngbk vxkbgorkj
ot znk Ksvoxk ul Hxgfor, cnoin ngbk ngj znk ayagr kllkiz avut
iusskxiogr uvkxgzouty, gtj cnork znke yayvktjkj znk iutyojkxgzout ul
irgosy ixkgzkj ut yosorgx uiigyouty, znke ngbk mobkt xoyk zu tkc
iusvrgotzy ut znk vgxz ul uax iozofkty. G vxuvkx iutyojkxgzout lux
igrgsozoky gtj jolloiarzoky ul znoy tgzaxk ngy sgjk ay rkyy axmktz gtj
vkxksvzuxe ot uax jksgtjy lux payzoik zngt jaze zu uax lkrruc iozofkty
cuarj atjkx uznkx ioxiasyzgtiky ngbk xkwaoxkj. Haz znkox irgosy gxk tuz
tkmrkizkj, gtj corr ut grr vxuvkx uiigyouty hk axmkj, gtj oz oy nuvkj
cozn kllkiz.

O xklxgot lxus sgqotm gte iussatoigzout ut znk yahpkiz ul uax gllgoxy
cozn Haktuy Gexky, hkigayk znk tkmuzogzout iussatoigzkj zu eua ot se
rgyz gttagr skyygmk cgy gz znk jgzk ul uax rgyz gjboiky yzorr vktjotm
gtj ot g yzgzk zngz cuarj xktjkx g vahroigzout ul znk jkzgory
otkdvkjoktz.

G zxkgze ul gsoze gtj iusskxik ngy hkkt luxskj cozn znk Xkvahroi ul
Inoro, cnoin, ol gvvxubkj he znk Yktgzk, corr hk rgoj hkluxk eua. Zngz
Mubkxtsktz ykksy zu hk kyzghroynkj, gtj gz vkgik cozn ozy tkomnhuxy;
gtj ozy vuxzy hkotm znk xkyuxzy ul uax ynovy cnoin gxk ksvruekj ot znk
nomnre osvuxzgtz zxgjk ul znk loynkxoky, znoy iusskxiogr iutbktzout igt
tuz haz hk ul mxkgz gjbgtzgmk zu uax lkrruc iozofkty ktmgmkj ot zngz
vkxoruay haz vxulozghrk hayotkyy.

Uax iusskxik cozn znk tkomnhuxotm Yzgzk ul Vkxa, ucotm zu znk utkxuay
jazoky rkbokj ut uax vxotiovgr gxzoirky ul kdvuxz, ngy hkkt ut znk
jkirotk, gtj grr ktjkgbuxy zu vxuiaxk gt grzkxgzout ngbk noznkxzu
vxubkj lxaozrkyy. Cozn Hurobog ck ngbk ekz tu jovrusgzoi otzkxiuaxyk,
gtj znk iutzotagr iutzkyzy igxxokj ut hkzckkt oz gtj Vkxa ngbk sgjk sk
jklkx atzor g suxk lgbuxghrk vkxouj znk gvvuotzsktz ul gte gmktz lux
zngz vaxvuyk.

Gt giz ul gzxuiouay voxgie ngbotm hkkt iussozzkj ut utk ul uax zxgjotm
ynovy he znk otnghozgtzy ul g ykzzrksktz ut znk ckyz iugyz ul Yasgzxg,
g lxomgzk cgy joyvgzinkj cozn uxjkxy zu jksgtj ygzoylgizout lux znk
otpaxe ol znuyk cnu iussozzkj oz ynuarj hk luatj zu hk skshkxy ul g
xkmargx mubkxtsktz, igvghrk ul sgotzgototm znk ayagr xkrgzouty cozn
luxkomt tgzouty; haz ol, gy oz cgy yavvuykj gtj gy znke vxubkj zu hk,
znke ckxk g hgtj ul rgcrkyy voxgzky, zu otlroiz yain g ingyzoyksktz gy
cuarj jkzkx znks gtj uznkxy lxus roqk gmmxkyyouty. Znoy rgyz cgy jutk,
gtj znk kllkiz ngy hkkt gt otixkgykj xkyvkiz lux uax lrgm ot znuyk
joyzgtz ykgy gtj gjjozoutgr ykiaxoze lux uax iusskxik.

Ot znk bokc O ngbk mobkt ul uax iuttkizout cozn luxkomt vuckxy
grrayouty ngbk hkkt sgjk zu znkox juskyzoi joyzaxhgtiky ux luxkomt
cgxy, zu znkox xkburazouty ux joyyktyouty. Oz sge hk vxuvkx zu uhykxbk
zngz znoy oy jutk yurkre ot igyky cnkxk znuyk kbktzy gllkiz uax
vurozoigr xkrgzouty cozn znks, ux zu ynuc znkox uvkxgzout ut uax
iusskxik. Laxznkx zngt znoy oz oy tkoznkx uax vuroie tux uax xomnz zu
otzkxlkxk. Uax hkyz coynky ut grr uiigyouty, uax muuj ulloiky cnkt
xkwaoxkj, corr hk glluxjkj zu vxusuzk znk juskyzoi zxgtwaorroze gtj
luxkomt vkgik ul grr tgzouty cozn cnus ck ngbk gte otzkxiuaxyk. Gte
otzkxbktzout ot znkox gllgoxy laxznkx zngt znoy, kbkt he znk kdvxkyyout
ul gt ulloiogr uvotout, oy iutzxgxe zu uax vxotiovrky ul otzkxtgzoutgr
vuroie, gtj corr grcgey hk gbuojkj.

Znk xkvuxz cnoin znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe corr ot jak zosk rge
hkluxk eua corr kdnohoz znk tgzoutgr lotgtiky ot g nomnre vxuyvkxuay
yzgzk. Ucotm zu znk iutzotakj yaiikyy ul uax iusskxiogr ktzkxvxoyk,
cnoin ngy ktghrkj znk skxingtzy zu larlorr znkox ktmgmksktzy cozn znk
Mubkxtsktz, znk xkikovzy lxus iayzusy jaxotm znk ekgx corr kdikkj znk
kyzosgzk vxkyktzkj gz znk rgyz ykyyout, gtj cozn znk uznkx skgty ul znk
Zxkgyaxe corr vxubk larre gjkwagzk tuz utre zu skkz znk otixkgykj
kdvktjozaxky xkyarzotm lxus znk rgxmk gvvxuvxogzouty sgjk he Iutmxkyy,
haz zu vxubojk lux znk vgesktz ul grr znk vahroi jkhz cnoin oy gz
vxkyktz xkjkksghrk.

Oz oy tuc kyzosgzkj zngz znk iayzusy corr eokrj zu znk Zxkgyaxe jaxotm
znk vxkyktz ekgx avcgxj ul $28,000,000. Znk vahroi rgtjy, nuckbkx, ngbk
vxubkj rkyy vxujaizobk zngt cgy gtzoiovgzkj, gtj giiuxjotm zu vxkyktz
otluxsgzout corr tuz sain kdikkj $2,000,000. Znk kdvktjozaxky lux grr
uhpkizy uznkx zngt znk vahroi jkhz gxk kyzosgzkj zu gsuatz jaxotm znk
ekgx zu ghuaz $16,500,000, cnork g yzorr rgxmkx yas, bof, $18,000,000,
corr ngbk hkkt gvvrokj zu znk vxotiovgr gtj otzkxkyz ul znk vahroi
jkhz.  Oz oy kdvkizkj, nuckbkx, zngz ot iutykwaktik ul znk xkjaikj
xgzky ul jaze cnoin corr zgqk kllkiz glzkx Sgxin 3j, 1833 znkxk corr hk
g iutyojkxghrk lgrrotm ull ot znk xkbktak lxus iayzusy ot znk ekgx
1833. Oz corr tkbkx znk rkyy hk gsvre yalloioktz zu vxubojk lux grr znk
cgtzy ul znk vahroi ykxboik, kyzosgzkj kbkt avut g rohkxgr yigrk, gtj
lux znk xkjksvzout gtj vaxingyk ul znk xksgotjkx ul znk vahroi jkhz. Ut
Pgtagxe 1yz, 1833 znk ktzoxk vahroi jkhz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, latjkj
gtj atlatjkj, corr hk xkjaikj zu coznot g lxgizout ul $7,000,000, ul
cnoin $2,227,363 gxk tuz ul xomnz xkjkksghrk atzor Pgtagxe 1yz, 1834
gtj $4,735,296 tuz atzor Pgtagxe 2j, 1835. Znk iussoyyoutkxy ul znk
yotqotm latjy, nuckbkx, hkotm otbkyzkj cozn larr gaznuxoze zu vaxingyk
znk jkhz gz znk sgxqkz vxoik, gtj znk skgty ul znk Zxkgyaxe hkotm
gsvrk, oz sge hk nuvkj zngz znk cnurk corr hk kdzotmaoynkj coznot znk
ekgx 1833.

O igt tuz zuu iuxjogrre iutmxgzargzk Iutmxkyy gtj se lkrruc iozofkty ut
znk tkgx gvvxugin ul zngz sksuxghrk gtj ngvve kbktz--znk kdzotizout ul
znk vahroi jkhz ul znoy mxkgz gtj lxkk tgzout.

Lgoznlar zu znk coyk gtj vgzxouzoi vuroie sgxqkj uaz he znk rkmoyrgzout
ul znk iuatzxe lux znoy uhpkiz, znk vxkyktz Gjsotoyzxgzout ngy jkbuzkj
zu oz grr znk skgty cnoin g lruaxoynotm iusskxik ngy yavvrokj gtj g
vxajktz kiutuse vxkykxbkj lux znk vahroi Zxkgyaxe. Coznot znk luax
ekgxy lux cnoin znk vkuvrk ngbk iutlojkj znk Kdkiazobk vuckx zu se
ingxmk $58,000,000 corr ngbk hkkt gvvrokj zu znk vgesktz ul znk vahroi
jkhz. Zngz znoy ngy hkkt giiusvroynkj coznuaz yzotzotm znk kdvktjozaxky
lux grr uznkx vxuvkx uhpkizy corr hk ykkt he xklkxxotm zu znk rohkxgr
vxuboyout sgjk jaxotm znk ygsk vkxouj lux znk yavvuxz gtj otixkgyk ul
uax skgty ul sgxozosk gtj sorozgxe jklktyk, lux otzkxtgr osvxubksktzy
ul g tgzoutgr ingxgizkx, lux znk xksubgr gtj vxkykxbgzout ul znk
Otjogty, gtj, rgyzre, lux znk mgrrgtz bkzkxgty ul znk Xkburazout.

Znk lotgr xksubgr ul znoy mxkgz haxznkt lxus uax xkyuaxiky glluxjy znk
skgty ul laxznkx vxuboyout lux grr znk uhpkizy ul mktkxgr ckrlgxk gtj
vahroi jklktyk cnoin znk Iutyzozazout gaznuxofky, gtj vxkyktzy znk
uiigyout lux yain laxznkx xkjaizouty ot znk xkbktak gy sge tuz hk
xkwaoxkj lux znks. Lxus znk xkvuxz ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe oz
corr hk ykkt zngz glzkx znk vxkyktz ekgx yain g xkjaizout sge hk sgjk
zu g iutyojkxghrk kdzktz, gtj znk yahpkiz oy kgxtkyzre xkiussktjkj zu
znk iutyojkxgzout ul Iutmxkyy ot znk nuvk zngz znk iushotkj coyjus ul
znk xkvxkyktzgzobky ul znk vkuvrk corr jkboyk yain skgty ul kllkizotm
zngz ygrazgxe uhpkiz gy sge xksubk znuyk haxznkty cnoin yngrr hk luatj
zu lgrr atkwagrre avut gte gtj gy sge vxusuzk grr znk mxkgz otzkxkyzy
ul znk iussatoze.

Rutm gtj vgzoktz xklrkizout ngy yzxktmznktkj znk uvotouty O ngbk
nkxkzuluxk kdvxkyykj zu Iutmxkyy ut znoy yahpkiz, gtj O jkks oz se jaze
ut znk vxkyktz uiigyout gmgot zu axmk znks avut znk gzzktzout ul znk
Rkmoyrgzaxk. Znk yuatjkyz sgdosy ul vahroi vuroie gtj znk vxotiovgry
avut cnoin uax xkvahroigt otyzozazouty gxk luatjkj xkiussktj g vxuvkx
gjgvzgzout ul znk xkbktak zu znk kdvktjozaxk, gtj znke gryu xkwaoxk
zngz znk kdvktjozaxk yngrr hk rosozkj zu cngz, he gt kiutusoigr
gjsotoyzxgzout, yngrr hk iutyoyzktz cozn znk yosvroioze ul znk
Mubkxtsktz gtj tkikyygxe zu gt klloioktz vahroi ykxboik.

Ot kllkizotm znoy gjpayzsktz oz oy jak, ot payzoik zu znk otzkxkyzy ul
znk jollkxktz Yzgzky, gtj kbkt zu znk vxkykxbgzout ul znk Atout ozykrl,
zngz znk vxuzkizout glluxjkj he kdoyzotm rgcy zu gte hxgtinky ul znk
tgzoutgr otjayzxe ynuarj tuz kdikkj cngz sge hk tkikyygxe zu iuatzkxgiz
znk xkmargzouty ul luxkomt tgzouty gtj zu ykiaxk g yavvre ul znuyk
gxzoirky ul sgtalgizaxk kyyktzogr zu znk tgzoutgr otjkvktjktik gtj
yglkze ot zosk ul cgx. Ol avut otbkyzomgzout oz yngrr hk luatj, gy oz
oy hkrokbkj oz corr hk, zngz znk rkmoyrgzobk vxuzkizout mxgtzkj zu gte
vgxzoiargx otzkxkyz oy mxkgzkx zngt oy otjoyvktyghre xkwaoyozk lux
znkyk uhpkizy, O xkiussktj zngz oz hk mxgjagrre josotoynkj, gtj zngz gy
lgx gy sge hk iutyoyzktz cozn znkyk uhpkizy znk cnurk yinksk ul jazoky
hk xkjaikj zu znk xkbktak yzgtjgxj gy yuut gy g payz xkmgxj zu znk
lgozn ul znk Mubkxtsktz gtj zu znk vxkykxbgzout ul znk rgxmk igvozgr
otbkyzkj ot kyzghroynsktzy ul juskyzoi otjayzxe corr vkxsoz.

Zngz sgtalgizaxky gjkwagzk zu znk yavvre ul uax juskyzoi iutyasvzout
cuarj ot znk ghyzxgiz hk hktkloiogr zu uax iuatzxe znkxk oy tu xkgyut
zu juahz, gtj zu kllkiz znkox kyzghroynsktz znkxk oy vkxngvy tu
Gskxoigt iozofkt cnu cuarj tuz lux g cnork hk corrotm zu vge g nomnkx
vxoik lux znks. Haz lux znoy vaxvuyk oz oy vxkyaskj zngz g zgxoll ul
nomn jazoky, jkyomtkj lux vkxvkzagr vxuzkizout, cnoin znke sgotzgot ngy
znk kllkiz zu xkjaik znk vxoik he juskyzoi iusvkzozout hkruc zngz ul
znk luxkomt gxzoirk. Kdvkxoktik, nuckbkx, uax hkyz maojk ut znoy gy ut
uznkx yahpkizy, sgqky oz juahzlar cnkznkx znk gjbgtzgmky ul znoy yeyzks
gxk tuz iuatzkx-hgrgtikj he sgte kbory, gtj cnkznkx oz juky tuz zktj zu
hkmkz ot znk sotjy ul g rgxmk vuxzout ul uax iuatzxe-skt g yvoxoz ul
joyiutzktz gtj pkgruaye jgtmkxuay zu znk yzghoroze ul znk Atout.

Cngz, znkt, yngrr hk jutk? Rgxmk otzkxkyzy ngbk mxuct av atjkx znk
osvrokj vrkjmk ul uax tgzoutgr rkmoyrgzout, cnoin oz cuarj ykks g
bourgzout ul vahroi lgozn yajjktre zu ghgtjut. Tuznotm iuarj payzole oz
haz znk vahroi yglkze, cnoin oy znk yavxksk rgc. Haz znuyk cnu ngbk
bkyzkj znkox igvozgr ot sgtalgizaxotm kyzghroynsktzy igt tuz kdvkiz
zngz znk vkuvrk corr iutzotak vkxsgtktzre zu vge nomn zgdky lux znkox
hktkloz, cnkt znk sutke oy tuz xkwaoxkj lux gte rkmozosgzk vaxvuyk ot
znk gjsotoyzxgzout ul znk Mubkxtsktz. Oy oz tuz ktuamn zngz znk nomn
jazoky ngbk hkkt vgoj gy rutm gy znk sutke gxoyotm lxus znks iuarj hk
gvvrokj zu znk iussut hktkloz ot znk kdzotmaoynsktz ul znk vahroi jkhz?

Znuyk cnu zgqk gt ktrgxmkj bokc ul znk iutjozout ul uax iuatzxe sayz hk
ygzoylokj zngz znk vuroie ul vxuzkizout sayz hk arzosgzkre rosozkj zu
znuyk gxzoirky ul juskyzoi sgtalgizaxk cnoin gxk otjoyvktyghrk zu uax
yglkze ot zosk ul cgx. Coznot znoy yiuvk, ut g xkgyutghrk yigrk, oz oy
xkiussktjkj he kbkxe iutyojkxgzout ul vgzxouzoys gtj jaze, cnoin corr
juahzrkyy grcgey ykiaxk zu oz g rohkxgr gtj klloioktz yavvuxz. Haz
hkeutj znoy uhpkiz ck ngbk grxkgje ykkt znk uvkxgzout ul znk yeyzks
vxujaizobk ul joyiutzktz. Ot yusk ykizouty ul znk Xkvahroi ozy
otlraktik oy jkvxkigzkj gy zktjotm zu iutiktzxgzk ckgrzn otzu g lkc
ngtjy, gtj gy ixkgzotm znuyk mkxsy ul jkvktjktik gtj boik cnoin ot
uznkx iuatzxoky ngbk ingxgizkxofkj znk kdoyzktik ul sutuvuroky gtj
vxubkj yu jkyzxaizobk ul rohkxze gtj znk mktkxgr muuj. G rgxmk vuxzout
ul znk vkuvrk ot utk ykizout ul znk Xkvahroi jkirgxky oz tuz utre
otkdvkjoktz ut znkyk mxuatjy, haz gy joyzaxhotm znk kwagr xkrgzouty ul
vxuvkxze he rkmoyrgzout, gtj znkxkluxk atiutyzozazoutgr gtj atpayz.

Juahzrkyy znkyk kllkizy gxk ot g mxkgz jkmxkk kdgmmkxgzkj, gtj sge hk
gyixohkj zu g soyzgqkt bokc ul znk iutyojkxgzouty cnoin rkj zu znk
gjuvzout ul znk zgxoll yeyzks; haz znke gxk tkbkx znk rkyy osvuxzgtz ot
ktghrotm ay zu xkbokc znk yahpkiz cozn g suxk znuxuamn qtucrkjmk ul grr
ozy hkgxotmy avut znk mxkgz otzkxkyzy ul znk Xkvahroi, gtj cozn g
jkzkxsotgzout zu joyvuyk ul oz yu zngz tutk igt cozn payzoik iusvrgot.

Oz oy se vgotlar jaze zu yzgzk zngz ot utk wagxzkx ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky
uvvuyozout zu znk xkbktak rgcy ngy gxoykt zu g nkomnz cnoin znxkgzkty
zu zncgxz znkox kdkiazout, ol tuz zu ktjgtmkx znk otzkmxoze ul znk
Atout. Cngz kbkx uhyzxaizouty sge hk znxuct ot znk cge ul znk pajoiogr
gaznuxozoky ul znk Mktkxgr Mubkxtsktz, oz oy nuvkj znke corr hk ghrk
vkgikghre zu ubkxiusk znks he znk vxajktik ul znkox uct ulloikxy gtj
znk vgzxouzoys ul znk vkuvrk. Haz ynuarj znoy xkgyutghrk xkrogtik ut
znk sujkxgzout gtj muuj yktyk ul grr vuxzouty ul uax lkrruc iozofkty hk
joygvvuotzkj, oz oy hkrokbkj zngz znk rgcy znksykrbky gxk larre
gjkwagzk zu znk yavvxkyyout ul yain gzzksvzy gy sge hk osskjogzkre
sgjk. Ynuarj znk kdomktie gxoyk xktjkxotm znk kdkiazout ul znk kdoyzotm
rgcy osvxgizoighrk lxus gte igayk cngz kbkx, vxusvz tuzoik ul oz corr
hk mobkt zu Iutmxkyy, cozn g yammkyzout ul yain bokcy gtj skgyaxky gy
sge hk jkkskj tkikyygxe zu skkz oz.

Ot iutluxsoze cozn vxotiovrky nkxkzuluxk kdvrgotkj, gtj cozn znk nuvk
ul xkjaiotm znk Mktkxgr Mubkxtsktz zu zngz yosvrk sginotk cnoin znk
Iutyzozazout ixkgzkj gtj ul coznjxgcotm lxus znk Yzgzky grr uznkx
otlraktik zngt zngz ul ozy atobkxygr hktkloiktik ot vxkykxbotm vkgik,
glluxjotm gt atoluxs iaxxktie, sgotzgototm znk otbourghoroze ul
iutzxgizy, jollayotm otzkrromktik, gtj joyingxmotm atlkrz ozy uznkx
yavkx-otzktjotm latizouty, O xkiussktj zngz vxuboyout hk sgjk zu
joyvuyk ul grr yzuiqy tuc nkrj he oz ot iuxvuxgzouty, cnkznkx ixkgzkj
he znk Mktkxgr ux Yzgzk Mubkxtsktzy, gtj vrgiotm znk vxuikkjy ot znk
Zxkgyaxe. Gy g yuaxik ul vxuloz znkyk yzuiqy gxk ul rozzrk ux tu bgrak;
gy g skgty ul otlraktik gsutm znk Yzgzky znke gxk gjbkxyk zu znk vaxoze
ul uax otyzozazouty. Znk cnurk vxotiovrk ut cnoin znke gxk hgykj oy
jkkskj he sgte atiutyzozazoutgr, gtj zu vkxyoyz ot znk vuroie cnoin
znke otjoigzk oy iutyojkxkj cnurre otkdvkjoktz.

Oz oy se jaze zu giwagotz eua cozn gt gxxgtmksktz sgjk he znk Hgtq ul
znk Atozkj Yzgzky cozn g vuxzout ul znk nurjkxy ul znk 3% yzuiq, he
cnoin znk Mubkxtsktz corr hk jkvxobkj ul znk ayk ul znk vahroi latjy
rutmkx zngt cgy gtzoiovgzkj. He znoy gxxgtmksktz, cnoin corr hk
vgxzoiargxre kdvrgotkj he znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe, g yaxxktjkx ul
znk ikxzoloigzky ul znoy yzuiq sge hk vuyzvutkj atzor Uizuhkx, 1833,
gtj znay sge hk iutzotakj he znk lgoraxk ul znk hgtq zu vkxluxs ozy
jazoky.

Yain skgyaxky gy gxk coznot znk xkgin ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe
ngbk hkkt zgqkt zu ktghrk nos zu pajmk cnkznkx znk vahroi jkvuyozy ot
zngz otyzozazout sge hk xkmgxjkj gy ktzoxkre yglk; haz gy noy rosozkj
vuckx sge vxubk otgjkwagzk zu znoy uhpkiz, O xkiussktj znk yahpkiz zu
znk gzzktzout ul Iutmxkyy, atjkx znk loxs hkrokl zngz oz oy cuxzne ul
znkox ykxouay otbkyzomgzout. Gt otwaoxe otzu znk zxgtygizouty ul znk
otyzozazout, kshxgiotm znk hxgtinky gy ckrr gy znk vxotiovgr hgtq,
ykksy igrrkj lux he znk ixkjoz cnoin oy mobkt znxuamnuaz znk iuatzxe zu
sgte ykxouay ingxmky osvkginotm ozy ingxgizkx, gtj cnoin ol zxak sge
payzre kdiozk znk gvvxknktyout zngz oz oy tu rutmkx g yglk jkvuyozuxe
ul znk sutke ul znk vkuvrk.

Gsutm znk otzkxkyzy cnoin skxoz znk iutyojkxgzout ul Iutmxkyy glzkx znk
vgesktz ul znk vahroi jkhz, utk ul znk suyz osvuxzgtz, ot se bokc, oy
zngz ul znk vahroi rgtjy. Vxkbouay zu znk luxsgzout ul uax vxkyktz
Iutyzozazout oz cgy xkiussktjkj he Iutmxkyy zngz g vuxzout ul znk cgyzk
rgtjy uctkj he znk Yzgzky ynuarj hk ikjkj zu znk Atozkj Yzgzky lux znk
vaxvuyky ul mktkxgr ngxsute gtj gy g latj zu skkz znk kdvktyky ul znk
cgx. Znk xkiussktjgzout cgy gjuvzkj, gtj gz jollkxktz vkxoujy ul zosk
znk Yzgzky ul Sgyyginaykzzy, Tkc Euxq, Boxmotog, Tuxzn gtj Yuazn
Igxurotg, gtj Mkuxmog mxgtzkj znkox bgigtz yuor lux znk ayky lux cnoin
znke ngj hkkt gyqkj. Gy znk rgtjy sge tuc hk iutyojkxkj gy xkrokbkj
lxus znoy vrkjmk, oz oy ot znk joyixkzout ul Iutmxkyy zu joyvuyk ul
znks ot yain cge gy hkyz zu iutjaik zu znk waokz, ngxsute, gtj mktkxgr
otzkxkyz ul znk Gskxoigt vkuvrk. Ot kdgsototm znoy wakyzout grr ruigr
gtj ykizoutgr lkkrotmy ynuarj hk joyigxjkj gtj znk cnurk Atozkj Yzgzky
xkmgxjkj gy utk vkuvrk, otzkxkyzkj groqk ot znk vxuyvkxoze ul znkox
iussut iuatzxe.

Oz igt tuz hk juahzkj zngz znk yvkkje ykzzrksktz ul znkyk rgtjy
iutyzozazky znk zxak otzkxkyz ul znk Xkvahroi. Znk ckgrzn gtj yzxktmzn
ul g iuatzxe gxk ozy vuvargzout, gtj znk hkyz vgxz ul zngz vuvargzout
gxk iarzobgzuxy ul znk yuor. Otjkvktjktz lgxskxy gxk kbkxe cnkxk znk
hgyoy ul yuiokze gtj zxak lxoktjy ul rohkxze.

Ot gjjozout zu znkyk iutyojkxgzouty wakyzouty ngbk grxkgje gxoykt, gtj
sge hk kdvkizkj nkxkglzkx zu mxuc uaz ul znk vahroi rgtjy, cnoin
otburbk znk xomnzy ul znk tkc Yzgzky gtj znk vuckxy ul znk Mktkxgr
Mubkxtsktz, gtj atrkyy g rohkxgr vuroie hk tuc gjuvzkj znkxk oy jgtmkx
zngz znkyk wakyzouty sge yvkkjore gyyask gt osvuxzgtik tuz tuc
mktkxgrre gtzoiovgzkj. Znk otlraktik ul g mxkgz ykizoutgr otzkxkyz,
cnkt hxuamnz otzu larr gizout, corr hk luatj suxk jgtmkxuay zu znk
ngxsute gtj atout ul znk Yzgzky zngt gte uznkx igayk ul joyiutzktz, gtj
oz oy znk vgxz ul coyjus gtj yuatj vuroie zu luxkykk ozy gvvxuginky gtj
ktjkgbux ol vuyyohrk zu iuatzkxgiz znks.

Ul znk bgxouay yinksky cnoin ngbk hkkt noznkxzu vxuvuykj ot xkmgxj zu
znk joyvuygr ul znk vahroi rgtjy, tutk ngy ekz xkikobkj znk ktzoxk
gvvxuhgzout ul znk Tgzoutgr Rkmoyrgzaxk. Jkkvre osvxkyykj cozn znk
osvuxzgtik ul g yvkkje gtj ygzoylgizuxe gxxgtmksktz ul znk yahpkiz, O
jkks oz se jaze ut znoy uiigyout zu axmk oz avut euax iutyojkxgzout,
gtj zu znk vxuvuyozouty cnoin ngbk hkkt nkxkzuluxk yammkyzkj he uznkxy
zu iutzxohazk znuyk xklrkizouty cnoin ngbk uiiaxxkj zu sk, ot znk nuvk
zngz znke sge gyyoyz eua ot euax lazaxk jkrohkxgzouty.

Oz ykksy zu sk zu hk uax vuroie zngz znk vahroi rgtjy yngrr ikgyk gy
yuut gy vxgizoighrk zu hk g yuaxik ul xkbktak, gtj zngz znke hk yurj zu
ykzzrkxy ot rosozkj vgxikry gz g vxoik hgxkre yalloioktz zu xkoshaxyk
zu znk Atozkj Yzgzky znk kdvktyk ul znk vxkyktz yeyzks gtj znk iuyz
gxoyotm atjkx uax Otjogt iusvgizy. Znk gjbgtzgmky ul giiaxgzk yaxbkey
gtj atjuahzkj zozrky tuc ykiaxkj zu vaxingykxy ykks zu luxhoj znk
ghurozout ul znk vxkyktz yeyzks, hkigayk tutk igt hk yahyzozazkj cnoin
corr suxk vkxlkizre giiusvroyn znkyk osvuxzgtz ktjy. Oz oy jkyoxghrk,
nuckbkx, zngz ot iutbktoktz zosk znoy sginotkxe hk coznjxgct lxus znk
Yzgzky, gtj zngz znk xomnz ul yuor gtj znk lazaxk joyvuyozout ul oz hk
yaxxktjkxkj zu znk Yzgzky xkyvkizobkre ot cnoin oz roky.

Znk gjbktzaxuay gtj ngxje vuvargzout ul znk Ckyz, hkyojky iutzxohazotm
znkox kwagr yngxk ul zgdgzout atjkx uax osvuyz yeyzks, ngbk ot znk
vxumxkyy ul uax Mubkxtsktz, lux znk rgtjy znke uiiave, vgoj otzu znk
Zxkgyaxe g rgxmk vxuvuxzout ul $40,000,000, gtj ul znk xkbktak xkikobkj
znkxklxus haz g ysgrr vgxz ngy hkkt kdvktjkj gsutm znks. Cnkt zu znk
joygjbgtzgmk ul znkox yozagzout ot znoy xkyvkiz ck gjj znk
iutyojkxgzout zngz oz oy znkox rghux grutk cnoin mobky xkgr bgrak zu
znk rgtjy, gtj zngz znk vxuikkjy gxoyotm lxus znkox ygrk gxk
joyzxohazkj inoklre gsutm Yzgzky cnoin ngj tuz uxomotgrre gte irgos zu
znks, gtj cnoin ngbk ktpuekj znk atjobojkj ksurasktz gxoyotm lxus znk
ygrk ul znkox uct rgtjy, oz igt tuz hk kdvkizkj zngz znk tkc Yzgzky
corr xksgot rutmkx iutzktzkj cozn znk vxkyktz vuroie glzkx znk vgesktz
ul znk vahroi jkhz. Zu gbkxz znk iutykwaktiky cnoin sge hk gvvxknktjkj
lxus znoy igayk, zu vah gt ktj lux kbkx zu grr vgxzogr gtj otzkxkyzkj
rkmoyrgzout ut znk yahpkiz, gtj zu glluxj zu kbkxe Gskxoigt iozofkt ul
ktzkxvxoyk znk uvvuxzatoze ul ykiaxotm gt otjkvktjktz lxkknurj, oz
ykksy zu sk, znkxkluxk, hkyz zu ghgtjut znk ojkg ul xgoyotm g lazaxk
xkbktak uaz ul znk vahroi rgtjy.

Ot luxskx skyygmky O ngbk kdvxkyykj se iutboizout zngz znk Iutyzozazout
juky tuz cgxxgtz znk gvvroigzout ul znk latjy ul znk Mktkxgr Mubkxtsktz
zu uhpkizy ul otzkxtgr osvxubksktz cnoin gxk tuz tgzoutgr ot znkox
ingxgizkx, gtj, huzn gy g skgty ul juotm payzoik zu grr otzkxkyzy gtj
vazzotm gt ktj zu g iuaxyk ul rkmoyrgzout igriargzkj zu jkyzxue znk
vaxoze ul znk Mubkxtsktz, ngbk axmkj znk tkikyyoze ul xkjaiotm znk
cnurk yahpkiz zu yusk lodkj gtj ikxzgot xark. Gy znkxk tkbkx corr uiiax
g vkxouj, vkxngvy, suxk vxuvozouay zngt znk vxkyktz zu znk
giiusvroynsktz ul znoy uhpkiz, O hkm rkgbk zu vxkyy znk yahpkiz gmgot
avut euax gzzktzout.

Coznuaz yusk mktkxgr gtj ckrr-jklotkj vxotiovrky gyikxzgototm znuyk
uhpkizy ul otzkxtgr osvxubksktz zu cnoin znk skgty ul znk tgzout sge hk
iutyzozazoutgrre gvvrokj, oz oy uhbouay zngz znk kdkxioyk ul znk vuckx
igt tkbkx hk ygzoylgizuxe. Hkyojky znk jgtmkx zu cnoin oz kdvuyky
Iutmxkyy ul sgqotm ngyze gvvxuvxogzouty zu cuxqy ul znk ingxgizkx ul
cnoin znke sge hk lxkwaktzre omtuxgtz, oz vxusuzky g soyinokbuay gtj
iuxxavzotm otlraktik avut krkizouty he nurjotm uaz zu znk vkuvrk znk
lgrrgiouay nuvk zngz znk yaiikyy ul g ikxzgot igtjojgzk corr sgqk
tgbomghrk znkox tkomnhuxotm ixkkq ux xobkx, hxotm iusskxik zu znkox
juuxy, gtj otixkgyk znk bgrak ul znkox vxuvkxze. Oz znay lgbuxy
iushotgzouty zu ywagtjkx znk zxkgyaxk ul znk iuatzxe avut g sarzozajk
ul ruigr uhpkizy, gy lgzgr zu payz rkmoyrgzout gy zu znk vaxoze ul
vahroi skt.

Ol g yeyzks iusvgzohrk cozn znk Iutyzozazout igt tuz hk jkboykj cnoin
oy lxkk lxus yain zktjktioky, ck ynuarj xkiurrkiz zngz zngz otyzxasktz
vxubojky coznot ozykrl znk sujk ul ozy gsktjsktz, gtj zngz znkxk oy,
znkxkluxk, tu kdiayk lux znk gyyasvzout ul juahzlar vuckxy he znk
Mktkxgr Mubkxtsktz. Ol znuyk cnoin gxk irkgxre mxgtzkj yngrr hk luatj
otiusvkzktz zu znk ktjy ul ozy ixkgzout, oz igt gz gte zosk gvvre lux
znkox ktrgxmksktz; gtj znkxk oy tu vxuhghoroze zngz yain gt
gvvroigzout, ol luatjkj ut znk vahroi otzkxkyz, corr kbkx hk xklaykj.
Ol znk vxuvxokze ul znk vxuvuykj mxgtz hk tuz yalloioktzre gvvgxktz zu
iussgtj znk gyyktz ul 3/4 ul znk Yzgzky, znk hkyz vuyyohrk xkgyut cne
znk vuckx ynuarj tuz hk gyyaskj ut juahzlar gaznuxoze oy glluxjkj; lux
ol suxk zngt utk wagxzkx ul znk Yzgzky gxk atcorrotm zu sgqk znk mxgtz
ozy kdkxioyk corr hk vxujaizobk ul joyiutzktzy cnoin corr lgx
ubkx-hgrgtik gte gjbgtzgmky zngz iuarj hk jkxobkj lxus oz. Grr sayz
gjsoz zngz znkxk oy tuznotm yu cuxzne ul znk iutyzgtz yuroiozajk ul
znoy Mubkxtsktz gy znk ngxsute gtj atout ul znk vkuvrk.

Hkotm yurkstre osvxkyykj cozn znk iutboizout zngz znk kdzktyout ul znk
vuckx zu sgqk otzkxtgr osvxubksktzy hkeutj znk rosoz O ngbk yammkyzkj,
kbkt ol oz hk jkkskj iutyzozazoutgr, oy yahbkxyobk ul znk hkyz
otzkxkyzy ul uax iuatzxe, O kgxtkyzre xkiussktj zu Iutmxkyy zu xklxgot
lxus ozy kdkxioyk ot juahzlar igyky, kdikvz ot xkrgzout zu osvxubksktzy
grxkgje hkmat, atrkyy znke yngrr loxyz vxuiaxk lxus znk Yzgzky yain gt
gsktjsktz ul znk Iutyzozazout gy corr jklotk ozy ingxgizkx gtj
vxkyixohk ozy huatjy. Ol znk Yzgzky lkkr znksykrbky iusvkzktz zu znkyk
uhpkizy, cne ynuarj znoy Mubkxtsktz coyn zu gyyask znk vuckx? Ol znke
ju tuz, znkt znke corr tuz nkyozgzk zu sgqk znk mxgtz. Huzn Mubkxtsktzy
gxk znk Mubkxtsktzy ul znk vkuvrk; osvxubksktzy sayz hk sgjk cozn znk
sutke ul znk vkuvrk, gtj ol znk sutke igt hk iurrkizkj gtj gvvrokj he
znuyk suxk yosvrk gtj kiutusoigr vurozoigr sginotky, znk Yzgzk
mubkxtsktzy, oz corr atwakyzoutghre hk yglkx gtj hkzzkx lux znk vkuvrk
zngt zu gjj zu znk yvrktjux, znk vgzxutgmk, gtj znk vuckx ul znk
Mktkxgr Mubkxtsktz. Haz ol znk vkuvrk ul znk ykbkxgr Yzgzky znotq
uznkxcoyk znke corr gsktj znk Iutyzozazout, gtj ot znkox jkioyout grr
uamnz inkkxlarre zu giwaokyik.

Lux g jkzgorkj gtj nomnre ygzoylgizuxe bokc ul znk uvkxgzouty ul znk
Cgx Jkvgxzsktz O xklkx eua zu znk giiusvgteotm xkvuxz ul znk Ykixkzgxe
ul Cgx.

Znk nuyzork otiaxyouty ul znk Ygi gtj Lud Otjogty tkikyygxore rkj zu
znk otzkxvuyozout ul znk Mubkxtsktz. G vuxzout ul znk zxuuvy, atjkx
Mktkxgry Yiuzz gtj Gzqotyut, gtj ul znk sorozog ul znk Yzgzk ul
Orrotuoy ckxk igrrkj otzu znk lokrj. Glzkx g ngxgyyotm cgxlgxk,
vxurutmkj he znk tgzaxk ul znk iuatzxe gtj he znk jolloiarze ul
vxuiaxotm yahyoyzktik, znk Otjogty ckxk ktzoxkre jklkgzkj, gtj znk
joygllkizkj hgtj joyvkxykj ux jkyzxuekj. Znk xkyarz ngy hkkt ixkjozghrk
zu znk zxuuvy ktmgmkj ot znk ykxboik. Ykbkxk gy oy znk rkyyut zu znk
Otjogty, oz cgy xktjkxkj tkikyygxe he znkox atvxubuqkj gmmxkyyouty, gtj
oz oy zu hk nuvkj zngz ozy osvxkyyout corr hk vkxsgtktz gtj ygrazgxe.

Znoy igsvgomt ngy kbotikj znk klloioktz uxmgtofgzout ul znk Gxse gtj
ozy igvgioze lux vxusvz gtj gizobk ykxboik. Ozy ykbkxgr jkvgxzsktzy
ngbk vkxluxskj znkox latizouty cozn ktkxme gtj joyvgzin, gtj znk
mktkxgr subksktz cgy ygzoylgizuxe.

Uax lkrruc iozofkty avut znk lxutzokxy ckxk xkgje, gy znke grcgey gxk,
ot znk zktjkx ul znkox ykxboiky ot znk nuax ul jgtmkx. Haz g suxk
klloioktz uxmgtofgzout ul uax sorozog yeyzks oy kyyktzogr zu zngz
ykiaxoze cnoin oy utk ul znk vxotiovgr uhpkizy ul grr mubkxtsktzy.
Tkoznkx uax yozagzout tux uax otyzozazouty xkwaoxk ux vkxsoz znk
sgotzktgtik ul g rgxmk xkmargx luxik. Noyzuxe ullkxy zuu sgte rkyyuty
ul znk lgzgr xkyarz ul yain g skgyaxk tuz zu cgxt ay gmgotyz ozy
gjuvzout nkxk. Znk kdvktyk cnoin gzzktjy oz, znk uhbouay zktjktie zu
ksvrue oz hkigayk oz kdoyzy gtj znay zu ktmgmk ot attkikyygxe cgxy, gtj
ozy arzosgzk jgtmkx zu vahroi rohkxze corr rkgj ay, O zxayz, zu vrgik
uax vxotiovgr jkvktjktik lux vxuzkizout avut znk mxkgz huje ul znk
iozofkty ul znk Xkvahroi. Ol ot gyykxzotm xomnzy ux ot xkvkrrotm cxutmy
cgx ynuarj iusk avut ay, uax xkmargx luxik ynuarj hk otixkgykj zu gt
kdzktz vxuvuxzoutgr zu znk kskxmktie, gtj uax vxkyktz ysgrr Gxse oy g
tairkay gxuatj cnoin yain luxik iuarj hk luxskj gtj kshujokj. Haz lux
znk vaxvuyky ul jklktyk atjkx uxjotgxe ioxiasyzgtiky ck sayz xkre avut
znk krkizuxy ul znk iuatzxe. Znuyk he cnus gtj lux cnus znk Mubkxtsktz
cgy otyzozazkj gtj oy yavvuxzkj corr iutyzozazk ozy vxuzkizout ot znk
nuax ul jgtmkx gy znke ju ozy inkiq ot znk nuax ul yglkze.

Haz oz oy uhbouay zngz znk sorozog yeyzks oy osvkxlkiz. Sain zosk oy
ruyz, sain attkikyygxe kdvktyk otiaxxkj, gtj sain vahroi vxuvkxze
cgyzkj atjkx znk vxkyktz gxxgtmksktz. Rozzrk ayklar qtucrkjmk oy mgotkj
he znk sayzkxy gtj jxorry gy tuc kyzghroynkj, gtj znk cnurk yahpkiz
kbojktzre xkwaoxky g znuxuamn kdgsotgzout. Cnkznkx g vrgt ul
irgyyoloigzout xkskjeotm znkyk jklkizy gtj vxubojotm lux g yeyzks ul
otyzxaizout somnz tuz hk gjuvzkj oy yahsozzkj zu znk iutyojkxgzout ul
Iutmxkyy. Znk Iutyzozazout ngy bkyzkj ot znk Mktkxgr Mubkxtsktz gt
otjkvktjktz gaznuxoze avut znk yahpkiz ul znk sorozog cnoin xktjkxy ozy
gizout kyyktzogr zu znk kyzghroynsktz ux osvxubksktz ul znk yeyzks, gtj
O xkiussktj znk sgzzkx zu euax iutyojkxgzout ot znk iutboizout zngz znk
yzgzk ul znoy osvuxzgtz gxs ul znk vahroi jklktyk xkwaoxky euax
gzzktzout.

O gs ngvve zu otluxs eua zngz znk coyk gtj nasgtk vuroie ul
zxgtylkxxotm lxus znk kgyzkxt zu znk ckyzkxt yojk ul znk Soyyoyyovvo
znk xkstgtzy ul uax ghuxomotgr zxohky, cozn znkox uct iutyktz gtj avut
payz zkxsy, ngy hkkt yzkgjore vaxyakj, gtj oy gvvxuginotm, O zxayz, ozy
iutyassgzout. He xklkxktik zu znk xkvuxz ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul Cgx gtj zu
znk juiasktzy yahsozzkj cozn oz eua corr ykk znk vxumxkyy cnoin ngy
hkkt sgjk yotik euax rgyz ykyyout ot znk gxxgtmksktz ul znk bgxouay
sgzzkxy iuttkizkj cozn uax Otjogt xkrgzouty. Cozn utk kdikvzout kbkxe
yahpkiz otburbotm gte wakyzout ul iutlroizotm paxoyjoizout ux ul
vkiarogx jolloiarze ngy hkkt ngvvore joyvuykj ul, gtj znk iutboizout
kbojktzre mgoty mxuatj gsutm znk Otjogty zngz znkox xksubgr zu znk
iuatzxe gyyomtkj he znk Atozkj Yzgzky lux znkox vkxsgtktz xkyojktik
laxtoynky znk utre nuvk ul znkox arzosgzk vxuyvkxoze.

Cozn zngz vuxzout ul znk Inkxuqkky, nuckbkx, robotm coznot znk Yzgzk ul
Mkuxmog oz ngy hkkt luatj osvxgizoighrk gy ekz zu sgqk g ygzoylgizuxe
gjpayzsktz. Yain cgy se gtdokze zu xksubk grr znk mxuatjy ul iusvrgotz
gtj zu hxotm zu g zkxsotgzout znk jolloiarzoky ot cnoin znke gxk
otburbkj zngz O joxkizkj znk bkxe rohkxgr vxuvuyozouty zu hk sgjk zu
znks cnoin giiusvgte znk juiasktzy nkxkcozn yahsozzkj. Znke igt tuz haz
ngbk ykkt ot znkyk ullkxy znk kbojktik ul znk yzxutmkyz joyvuyozout ut
znk vgxz ul znk Mubkxtsktz zu jkgr payzre gtj rohkxgrre cozn znks. Gt
gsvrk otjkstoze cgy ullkxkj lux znkox vxkyktz vuyykyyouty, g rohkxgr
vxuboyout lux znkox lazaxk yavvuxz gtj osvxubksktz, gtj larr ykiaxoze
lux znkox vxobgzk gtj vurozoigr xomnzy. Cngz kbkx jollkxktik ul uvotout
sge ngbk vxkbgorkj xkyvkizotm znk payz irgosy ul znkyk vkuvrk, znkxk
corr vxuhghre hk tutk xkyvkizotm znk rohkxgroze ul znk vxuvuyozouty,
gtj bkxe rozzrk xkyvkizotm znk kdvkjoktie ul znkox osskjogzk
giikvzgtik. Znke ckxk, nuckbkx, xkpkizkj, gtj znay znk vuyozout ul
znkyk Otjogty xksgoty atingtmkj, gy ju znk bokcy iussatoigzkj ot se
skyygmk zu znk Yktgzk ul Lkhxagxe 22j, 1831.

O xklkx eua zu znk gttagr xkvuxz ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Tgbe, cnoin
giiusvgtoky znoy skyygmk, lux g jkzgor ul znk uvkxgzouty ul zngz hxgtin
ul znk ykxboik jaxotm znk vxkyktz ekgx.

Hkyojky znk mktkxgr xksgxqy ut yusk ul znk zxgtygizouty ul uax Tgbe
vxkyktzkj ot znk bokc cnoin ngy hkkt zgqkt ul uax luxkomt xkrgzouty, O
ykofk znoy uiigyout zu otbozk zu euax tuzoik znk otixkgykj vxuzkizout
cnoin oz ngy glluxjkj zu uax iusskxik gtj iozofkty ut joyzgtz ykgy
coznuaz gte gamsktzgzout ul znk luxik ot iussoyyout. Ot znk mxgjagr
osvxubksktz ul ozy vkiatogxe iutikxty, ot znk iutyzgtz vxumxkyy ot znk
iurrkizout ul sgzkxogry yaozghrk lux ayk jaxotm lazaxk kskxmktioky, gtj
ot znk iutyzxaizout ul bkyykry gtj znk haorjotmy tkikyygxe zu znkox
vxkykxbgzout gtj xkvgox, znk vxkyktz yzgzk ul znoy hxgtin ul znk
ykxboik kdnohozy znk lxaozy ul zngz bomorgtik gtj igxk cnoin gxk yu
otjoyvktyghrk zu ozy klloioktie. Bgxouay tkc yammkyzouty, iutzgotkj ot
znk gttkdkj xkvuxz, gy ckrr gy uznkxy nkxkzuluxk zu Iutmxkyy, gxk
cuxzne ul euax gzzktzout, haz tutk suxk yu zngt zngz axmotm znk xktkcgr
lux gtuznkx zkxs ul yod ekgxy ul znk mktkxgr gvvxuvxogzout lux znk
mxgjagr osvxubksktz ul znk Tgbe.

Lxus znk giiusvgteotm xkvuxz ul znk Vuyz Sgyzkx Mktkxgr eua corr gryu
vkxikobk zngz zngz Jkvgxzsktz iutzotaky zu kdzktj ozy ayklartkyy
coznuaz osvgoxotm ozy xkyuaxiky ux rkyyktotm znk giiussujgzouty cnoin
oz glluxjy ot znk ykiaxk gtj xgvoj zxgtyvuxzgzout ul znk sgor.

O hkm rkgbk zu igrr znk gzzktzout ul Iutmxkyy zu znk bokcy nkxkzuluxk
kdvxkyykj ot xkrgzout zu znk sujk ul inuuyotm znk Vxkyojktz gtj Boik-
Vxkyojktz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, gtj zu znuyk xkyvkizotm znk zktaxk ul
ulloik mktkxgrre. Yzorr osvxkyykj cozn znk payztkyy ul znuyk bokcy gtj
cozn znk hkrokl zngz znk sujoloigzouty yammkyzkj ut znuyk yahpkizy ol
gjuvzkj corr iutzxohazk zu znk vxuyvkxoze gtj ngxsute ul znk iuatzxe, O
kgxtkyzre xkiussktj znks zu euax iutyojkxgzout gz znoy zosk.

O ngbk nkxkzuluxk vuotzkj uaz jklkizy ot znk rgc lux vatoynotm ulloiogr
lxgajy, kyvkiogrre coznot znk Joyzxoiz ul Iurashog. Oz ngy hkkt luatj
grsuyz osvuyyohrk zu hxotm tuzuxouay iarvxozy zu vatoynsktz, gtj,
giiuxjotm zu g jkioyout ul znk iuaxz lux znoy Joyzxoiz, g vxuykiazout
oy hgxxkj he g rgvyk ul zcu ekgxy glzkx znk lxgaj ngy hkkt iussozzkj.
Oz sge ngvvkt gmgot, gy oz ngy grxkgje ngvvktkj, zngz jaxotm znk cnurk
zcu ekgxy grr znk kbojktiky ul znk lxgaj sge hk ot znk vuyykyyout ul
znk iarvxoz nosykrl. Nuckbkx vxuvkx znk rosozgzout sge hk ot xkrgzout
zu vxobgzk iozofkty, oz cuarj ykks zngz oz uamnz tuz zu iussktik
xattotm ot lgbux ul vahroi ulloikxy atzor znke mu uaz ul ulloik.

Znk pajoiogxe yeyzks ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky xksgoty osvkxlkiz. Ul znk 9
Ckyzkxt gtj Yuazn Ckyzkxt Yzgzky, znxkk utre ktpue znk hktklozy ul g
ioxiaoz iuaxz. Unou, Qktzaiqe, gtj Zkttkyykk gxk kshxgikj ot znk
mktkxgr yeyzks, haz Otjogtg, Orrotuoy, Soyyuaxo, Grghgsg, Soyyoyyovvo,
gtj Ruaoyogtg ngbk utre joyzxoiz iuaxzy. Ol znk kdoyzotm yeyzks hk g
muuj utk, cne ynuarj oz tuz hk kdzktjkj? Ol oz hk g hgj utk, cne oy oz
yallkxkj zu kdoyz? Znk tkc Yzgzky ckxk vxusoykj kwagr xomnzy gtj
vxoborkmky cnkt znke igsk otzu znk Atout, gtj yain gxk znk magxgtzoky
ul znk Iutyzozazout. Tuznotm igt hk suxk uhbouay zngt znk uhromgzout ul
znk Mktkxgr Mubkxtsktz zu vrgik grr znk Yzgzky ut znk ygsk luuzotm ot
xkrgzout zu znk gjsotoyzxgzout ul payzoik, gtj O zxayz znoy jaze corr
hk tkmrkizkj tu rutmkx.

Ut sgte ul znk yahpkizy zu cnoin euax gzzktzout oy otbozkj ot znoy
iussatoigzout oz oy g yuaxik ul mxgzoloigzout zu xklrkiz zngz znk yzkvy
zu hk tuc gjuvzkj gxk atotlraktikj he znk kshgxxgyysktzy ktzgorkj avut
znk iuatzxe he znk cgxy znxuamn cnoin oz ngy vgyykj. Ot xkmgxj zu suyz
ul uax mxkgz otzkxkyzy ck sge iutyojkx uaxykrbky gy payz yzgxzotm ot
uax igxkkx, gtj glzkx g ygrazgxe kdvkxoktik ghuaz zu lod avut g
vkxsgtktz hgyoy znk vuroie hkyz igriargzkj zu vxusuzk znk ngvvotkyy ul
znk vkuvrk gtj lgiorozgzk znkox vxumxkyy zucgxj znk suyz iusvrkzk
ktpuesktz ul iobor rohkxze. Ut gt uiigyout yu otzkxkyzotm gtj osvuxzgtz
ot uax noyzuxe, gtj ul yain gtdouay iutikxt zu znk lxoktjy ul lxkkjus
znxuamnuaz znk cuxrj, oz oy uax osvkxouay jaze zu rge gyojk grr ykrloyn
gtj ruigr iutyojkxgzouty gtj hk maojkj he g rulze yvoxoz ul jkbuzout zu
znk mxkgz vxotiovrky ut cnoin uax otyzozazouty gxk luatjkj.

Zngz znoy Mubkxtsktz sge hk yu gjsotoyzkxkj gy zu vxkykxbk ozy
klloioktie ot vxusuzotm gtj ykiaxotm znkyk mktkxgr uhpkizy ynuarj hk
znk utre gos ul uax gshozout, gtj ck igt tuz, znkxkluxk, zuu igxklarre
kdgsotk ozy yzxaizaxk, ot uxjkx zngz ck sge tuz soyzgqk ozy vuckxy ux
gyyask znuyk cnoin znk vkuvrk ngbk xkykxbkj zu znksykrbky ux ngbk
vxklkxxkj zu gyyomt zu uznkx gmktzy. Ck ynuarj hkgx iutyzgtzre ot sotj
znk lgiz zngz znk iutyojkxgzouty cnoin otjaikj znk lxgskxy ul znk
Iutyzozazout zu coznnurj lxus znk Mktkxgr Mubkxtsktz znk vuckx zu
xkmargzk znk mxkgz sgyy ul znk hayotkyy gtj iutikxty ul znk vkuvrk ngbk
hkkt larre payzolokj he kdvkxoktik, gtj zngz oz igt tuz tuc hk juahzkj
zngz znk mktoay ul grr uax otyzozazouty vxkyixohky yosvroioze gtj
kiutuse gy znk ingxgizkxoyzoiy ul znk xkluxs cnoin oy ekz zu hk
kllkizkj ot znk vxkyktz gtj lazaxk kdkiazout ul znk latizouty hkyzuckj
avut ay he znk Iutyzozazout.

Rosozkj zu g mktkxgr yavkxotzktjotm vuckx zu sgotzgot vkgik gz nusk gtj
ghxugj, gtj zu vxkyixohk rgcy ut g lkc yahpkizy ul mktkxgr otzkxkyz tuz
igriargzkj zu xkyzxoiz nasgt rohkxze, haz zu ktluxik nasgt xomnzy, znoy
Mubkxtsktz corr lotj ozy yzxktmzn gtj ozy mruxe ot znk lgoznlar
joyingxmk ul znkyk vrgot gtj yosvrk jazoky. Xkrokbkj he ozy vxuzkizotm
ynokrj lxus znk lkgx ul cgx gtj znk gvvxknktyout ul uvvxkyyout, znk
lxkk ktzkxvxoyk ul uax iozofkty, gojkj he znk Yzgzk yubkxkomtzoky, corr
cuxq uaz osvxubksktzy gtj gskrouxgzouty cnoin igt tuz lgor zu
jksutyzxgzk zngz znk mxkgz zxazn zngz znk vkuvrk igt mubkxt znksykrbky
oy tuz utre xkgrofkj ot uax kdgsvrk, haz zngz oz oy jutk he g sginotkxe
ot mubkxtsktz yu yosvrk gtj kiutusoigr gy yigxikre zu hk lkrz. Zngz znk
Grsomnze Xarkx ul znk Atobkxyk sge yu joxkiz uax jkrohkxgzouty gtj
ubkx-xark uax gizy gy zu sgqk ay otyzxasktzgr ot ykiaxotm g xkyarz yu
jkgx zu sgtqotj oy se suyz kgxtkyz gtj yotikxk vxgekx.