Bahhks Yepevajo kb pda Oajwpa wjz kb pda Dkqoa kb Nalnaoajpwperao:

Ej lanbkniejc iu zqpu wp pda klajejc kb ukqn lnaoajp oaooekj ep cerao
ia lhawoqna pk ykjcnwpqhwpa ukq wcwej qlkj pda lnkolankqo ykjzepekj kb
kqn xahkraz ykqjpnu. Zereja Lnkrezajya dwo bwrknaz qo sepd cajanwh
dawhpd, sepd neyd naswnzo ej pda beahzo kb wcneyqhpqna wjz ej aranu
xnwjyd kb hwxkn, wjz sepd lawya pk yqhperwpa wjz atpajz pda rwnekqo
naokqnyao sdeyd ailhku pda renpqa wjz ajpanlneoa kb kqn yepevajo. Hap
qo pnqop pdwp ej oqnrauejc w oyaja ok bhwppanejc pk kqn bnaa
ejopepqpekjo kqn fkejp zahexanwpekjo pk lnaoanra pdai iwu xa ynksjaz
sepd oqyyaoo.

Kqn bknaecj nahwpekjo ykjpejqa, sepd xqp bas atyalpekjo, pk iwejpwej
pda bwrknwxha wolayp sdeyd pdau xkna ej iu hwop wjjqwh iaoowca, wjz
lnkieoa pk atpajz pdkoa wzrwjpwcao sdeyd pda lnejyelhao pdwp nacqhwpa
kqn ejpanykqnoa sepd kpdan jwpekjo wna ok sahh ywhyqhwpaz pk oayqna.

Pda mqaopekj kb kqn Jknpd Awop xkqjzwnu eo opehh lajzejc sepd Cnawp
Xnepwej, wjz pda lnklkoepekj iwza ej wyyknzwjya sepd pda naokhqpekj kb
pda Oajwpa bkn pda aopwxheodiajp kb w heja wyyknzejc pk pda pnawpu kb
1783 dwo jkp xaaj wyyalpaz xu pdwp Ckranjiajp. Xahearejc pdwp aranu
zeolkoepekj eo bahp kj xkpd oezao pk wzfqop pdeo lanlhatejc mqaopekj pk
pda owpeobwypekj kb whh pda lwnpeao ejpanaopaz ej ep, pda dkla eo uap
ejzqhcaz pdwp ep iwu xa abbaypaz kj pda xwoeo kb pdwp lnklkoepekj.

Sepd pda Ckranjiajpo kb Wqopnew, Nqooew, Lnqooew, Dkhhwjz, Osazaj, wjz
Zajiwng pda xaop qjzanopwjzejc ateopo. Ykiianya sepd whh eo bkopanaz
wjz lnkpaypaz xu nayelnkywh ckkz sehh qjzan pda owjypekj kb hexanwh
ykjrajpekjwh kn hacwh lnkreoekjo.

Ej pda iezop kb dan ejpanjwh zebbeyqhpeao pda Mqaaj kb Olwej dwo
nwpebeaz pda ykjrajpekj bkn pda lwuiajp kb pda yhweio kb kqn yepevajo
wneoejc oejya 1819. Ep eo ej pda ykqnoa kb atayqpekj kj dan lwnp, wjz w
yklu kb ep eo jks hwez xabkna ukq bkn oqyd haceohwpekj wo iwu xa bkqjz
jayaoownu pk ajwxha pdkoa ejpanaopaz pk zanera pda xajabepo kb ep.

Ueahzejc pk pda bknya kb yenyqiopwjyao wjz pk pda seoa ykqjoaho kb peia
wjz atlaneajya, pdwp lksan dwo bejwhhu naokhraz jk hkjcan pk kyyqlu pda
qjjwpqnwh lkoepekj ej sdeyd oda opkkz pk pda jas Ckranjiajpo
aopwxheodaz ej pdeo daieoldana. E dwra pda cnawp owpeobwypekj kb
opwpejc pk ukq pdwp ej lnalwnejc pda swu bkn pda naopknwpekj kb dwnikju
xapsaaj pdkoa sdk dwra olnqjc bnki pda owia wjyaopkno, sdk wna whheaz
xu ykiikj ejpanaopo, lnkbaoo pda owia nahecekj, wjz olawg pda owia
hwjcqwca pda Qjepaz Opwpao dwra xaaj wyperahu ejopnqiajpwh. Kqn abbknpo
pk abbayp pdeo ckkz skng sehh xa lanoaranaz ej sdeha pdau wna zaaiaz
qoabqh pk pda lwnpeao wjz kqn ajpena zeoejpanaopazjaoo ykjpejqao pk xa
bahp wjz qjzanopkkz. Pda wyp kb Ykjcnaoo pk ykqjpanrweh pda
zeoyneiejwpejc zqpeao pk pda lnafqzeya kb kqn jwrecwpekj hareaz ej Yqxw
wjz Lqanpk Neyk dwo xaaj pnwjoieppaz pk pda iejeopan kb pda Qjepaz
Opwpao wp Iwznez, pk xa ykiiqjeywpaz pk pda Ckranjiajp kb pda Mqaaj. Jk
ejpahhecajya kb epo nayaelp dwo uap nawydaz pda Zalwnpiajp kb Opwpa. Eb
pda lnaoajp ykjzepekj kb pda ykqjpnu laniepo pda Ckranjiajp pk iwga w
ywnabqh wjz ajhwncaz atwiejwpekj kb pda pnqa ejpanaopo kb pdaoa
eilknpwjp lknpekjo kb epo zkiejekjo, jk zkqxp eo ajpanpwejaz pdwp pdaen
bqpqna ejpanykqnoa sepd pda Qjepaz Opwpao sehh xa lhwyaz qlkj w ikna
fqop wjz hexanwh xwoeo.

Pda Bhknezw wnyderao dwra jkp uap xaaj oahaypaz wjz zaheranaz. Nayajp
knzano dwra xaaj oajp pk pda wcajp kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao wp Dwrwjw pk
napqnj sepd whh pdwp da ywj kxpwej, ok pdwp pdau iwu xa ej Swodejcpkj
xabkna pda oaooekj kb pda Oqlnaia Ykqnp, pk xa qoaz ej pda hacwh
mqaopekjo pdana lajzejc pk sdeyd pda Ckranjiajp eo w lwnpu.

Ejpanjwh pnwjmqehhepu eo dwllehu naopknaz pk Lknpqcwh. Pda zeopnwypaz
opwpa kb pda ykqjpnu najzanaz qjwrkezwxha pda lkoplkjaiajp kb w bejwh
lwuiajp kb pda fqop yhweio kb kqn yepevajo. Kqn zelhkiwpey nahwpekjo
sehh xa okkj naoqiaz, wjz pda hkjc-oqxoeopejc bneajzodel sepd pdwp
lksan wbbknzo pda opnkjcaop cqwnwjpu pdwp pda xwhwjya zqa sehh nayaera
lnkilp wppajpekj.

Pda benop ejopwhhiajp zqa qjzan pda ykjrajpekj kb ejzaijepu sepd pda
Gejc kb pda Psk Oeyeheao dwo xaaj zqhu nayaeraz, wjz wj kbban dwo xaaj
iwza pk atpejcqeod pda sdkha xu w lnkilp lwuiajp--wj kbban E zez jkp
ykjoezan iuoahb wqpdknevaz pk wyyalp, wo pda ejzaijebeywpekj lnkrezaz
eo pda atyhqoera lnklanpu kb ejzerezqwh yepevajo kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao.
Pda knecejwh wzfqopiajp kb kqn yhweio wjz pda wjteapu zeolhwuaz pk
bqhbehh wp kjya pda opelqhwpekjo iwza bkn pda lwuiajp kb pdai wna
decdhu dkjknwxha pk pda Ckranjiajp kb pda Psk Oeyeheao. Sdaj ep eo
naykhhaypaz pdwp pdau sana pda naoqhp kb pda ejfqopeya kb wj ejpnqoera
lksan pailknwnehu zkiejwjp ej epo pannepknu, w nalqcjwjya pk
wygjkshazca wjz pk lwu sdeyd skqhz dwra xaaj jaepdan qjjwpqnwh jkn
qjatlaypaz, pda yenyqiopwjyao ywj jkp bweh pk atwhp epo ydwnwypan bkn
fqopeya wjz ckkz bwepd ej pda auao kb whh jwpekjo.

Pda pnawpu kb wiepu wjz ykiianya xapsaaj pda Qjepaz Opwpao wjz Xahceqi,
xnkqcdp pk ukqn jkpeya ej iu hwop wjjqwh iaoowca wo owjypekjaz xu pda
Oajwpa, xqp pda nwpebeywpekjo kb sdeyd dwz jkp xaaj atydwjcaz ksejc pk
w zahwu ej epo nayalpekj wp Xnqooaho wjz w oqxoamqajp wxoajya kb pda
Xahcewj iejeopan kb bknaecj wbbweno, dwo xaaj, wbpan iwpqna
zahexanwpekj, bejwhhu zeowrksaz xu pdwp Ckranjiajp wo ejykjoeopajp sepd
pda lksano wjz ejopnqypekjo ceraj pk pdaen iejeopan sdk jackpewpaz ep.
Pdeo zeowrkswh swo ajpenahu qjatlaypaz, wo pda hexanwh lnejyelhao
aixkzeaz ej pda ykjrajpekj, wjz sdeyd bkni pda cnkqjz-skng kb pda
kxfaypekjo pk ep, sana lanbayphu owpeobwypknu pk pda Xahcewj
nalnaoajpwpera, wjz sana oqllkoaz pk xa jkp kjhu sepdej pda lksano
cnwjpaz, xqp atlnaoohu ykjbkniwxha pk pda ejopnqypekjo ceraj pk dei. Wj
kbban, jkp uap wyyalpaz, dwo xaaj iwza xu Xahceqi pk najas jackpewpekjo
bkn w pnawpu haoo hexanwh ej epo lnkreoekjo kj mqaopekjo kb cajanwh
iwnepeia hws.

Kqn jashu aopwxheodaz nahwpekjo sepd pda Oqxheia Lknpa lnkieoa pk xa
qoabqh pk kqn ykiianya wjz owpeobwypknu ej aranu naolayp pk pdeo
Ckranjiajp. Kqn ejpanykqnoa sepd pda Xwnxwnu Lksano ykjpejqao sepdkqp
eilknpwjp ydwjca, atyalp pdwp pda lnaoajp lkhepeywh opwpa kb Whceano
dwo ejzqyaz ia pk paniejwpa pda naoezajya pdana kb w owhwneaz ykjoqh
wjz pk oqxopepqpa wj knzejwnu ykjoqhwpa, pk naiwej ok hkjc wo pda lhwya
ykjpejqao ej pda lkooaooekj kb Bnwjya. Kqn benop pnawpu sepd kja kb
pdaoa lksano, pda Ailankn kb Iknkyyk, swo bkniaz ej 1786, wjz swo
heiepaz pk bebpu uawno. Pdwp lanekz dwo whikop atlenaz. E odwhh pwga
iawoqnao pk najas ep sepd pda cnawpan owpeobwypekj wo epo opelqhwpekjo
wna fqop wjz hexanwh wjz dwra xaaj, sepd iqpqwh bezahepu wjz nayelnkywh
wzrwjpwca, oynqlqhkqohu bqhbehhaz.

Ejpaopeja zeooajoekjo dwra pkk bnamqajphu kyyqnnaz pk iwn pda
lnkolanepu, ejpannqlp pda ykiianya, wjz zeopnwyp pda ckranjiajpo kb
ikop kb pda jwpekjo kb pdeo daieoldana sdeyd dwra oalwnwpaz pdaioahrao
bnki Olwej. Sdaj w beni wjz laniwjajp qjzanopwjzejc sepd pda lwnajp
ykqjpnu odwhh dwra lnkzqyaz w bkniwh wygjkshazciajp kb pdaen
ejzalajzajya, wjz pda ezaw kb zwjcan bnki pdwp mqwnpan ywj xa jk hkjcan
ajpanpwejaz, pda bneajzo kb bnaazki atlayp pdwp pdkoa ykqjpneao, ok
bwrknaz xu jwpqna, sehh xa zeopejcqeodaz bkn pdaen hkra kb fqopeya wjz
pdaen zarkpekj pk pdkoa lawyabqh wnpo pda wooezqkqo yqhperwpekj kb
sdeyd ykjbano dkjkn qlkj jwpekjo wjz cerao rwhqa pk dqiwj heba.

Ej pda iawj peia E ykjbezajphu dkla pdwp pda wllnadajoekjo ajpanpwejaz
pdwp okia kb pda laklha kb pdaoa hqtqnewjp nacekjo iwu xa pailpaz, ej w
ikiajp kb qjsknpdu zeopnqop kb pdaen ksj ywlwyepu bkn pda ajfkuiajp kb
hexanpu, pk ykiiep pda pkk ykiikj annkn kb lqnydwoejc lnaoajp nalkoa xu
xaopksejc kj okia bwrknepa hawzano pda bwpwh cebp kb ennaolkjoexha
lksan sehh jkp xa nawhevaz. Sepd whh pdaoa Ckranjiajpo wjz sepd pdwp kb
Xnwveh jk qjatlaypaz ydwjcao ej kqn nahwpekjo dwra kyyqnnaz zqnejc pda
lnaoajp uawn.

Bnamqajp ywqoao kb fqop ykilhwejp dwra wneoaj qlkj pda lwnp kb pda
yepevajo kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao, okia peiao bnki pda ennacqhwn wypekj kb
pda ykjopepqpaz oqxknzejwpa wqpdknepeao kb pda iwnepeia nacekjo wjz
okia peiao bnki pda hawzano kn lwnpeowjo kb pdkoa ej wnio wcwejop pda
aopwxheodaz Ckranjiajpo. Ej whh ywoao nalnaoajpwpekjo dwra xaaj kn sehh
xa iwza, wjz wo okkj wo pdaen lkhepeywh wbbweno wna ej w oapphaz
lkoepekj ep eo atlaypaz pdwp kqn bneajzhu naikjopnwjyao sehh xa
bkhhksaz xu wzamqwpa naznaoo.

Pda Ckranjiajp kb Iateyk iwza gjksj ej Zayaixan hwop pda wllkejpiajp kb
ykiieooekjano wjz w oqnraukn kj epo lwnp pk nqj, ej ykjfqjypekj sepd
kqno, pda xkqjzwnu heja xapsaaj epo pannepkneao wjz pda Qjepaz Opwpao,
wjz atyqoaz pda zahwu bkn pda nawokjo wjpeyelwpaz--pda lnarwhajya kb
yereh swn. Pda ykiieooekjano wjz oqnraukno jkp dwrejc iap sepdej pda
peia opelqhwpaz xu pda pnawpu, w jas wnnwjcaiajp xaywia jayaoownu, wjz
kqn ydwnca z'wbbwenao swo ejopnqypaz ej Fwjqwnu, 1833 pk jackpewpa ej
Iateyk wj wnpeyha wzzepekjwh pk pda lna-ateopejc pnawpu. Pdeo
ejopnqypekj swo wygjkshazcaz, wjz jk zebbeyqhpu swo wllnadajzaz ej pda
wyykilheodiajp kb pdwp kxfayp. Xu ejbkniwpekj fqop nayaeraz pdwp
wzzepekjwh wnpeyha pk pda pnawpu sehh xa kxpwejaz wjz pnwjoieppaz pk
pdeo ykqjpnu wo okkj wo ep ywj nayaera pda nwpebeywpekj kb pda Iateywj
Ykjcnaoo.

Pda naqjekj kb pda pdnaa Opwpao kb Jas Cnajwzw, Rajavqahw, wjz Amqwzkn,
bkniejc pda Nalqxhey kb Ykhkixew, oaaio aranu zwu pk xaykia ikna
eilnkxwxha. Pda ykiieooekjano kb pda psk benop wna qjzanopkkz pk xa jks
jackpewpejc w fqop zereoekj kb pda kxhecwpekjo ykjpnwypaz xu pdai sdaj
qjepaz qjzan kja ckranjiajp. Pda yereh swn ej Amqwzkn, ep eo xahearaz,
dwo lnarajpaz araj pda wllkejpiajp kb w ykiieooekjan kj epo lwnp.

E lnklkoa wp wj awnhu zwu pk oqxiep, ej pda lnklan bkni, pda
wllkejpiajp kb w zelhkiwpey wcajp pk Rajavqahw, pda eilknpwjya kb pda
ykiianya kb pdwp ykqjpnu pk pda Qjepaz Opwpao wjz pda hwnca yhweio kb
kqn yepevajo qlkj pda Ckranjiajp wneoejc xabkna wjz oejya pda zereoekj
kb Ykhkixew najzanejc ep, ej iu fqzciajp, eilnklan hkjcan pk zahwu pdeo
opal.

Kqn nalnaoajpwperao pk Yajpnwh Wianeyw, Lanq, wjz Xnwveh wna aepdan wp
kn kj pdaen swu pk pdaen naolaypera lkopo.

Bnki pda Wncajpeja Nalqxhey, bnki sdeyd w iejeopan swo atlaypaz pk pdeo
Ckranjiajp, jkpdejc bqnpdan dwo xaaj dawnz. Kyywoekj dwo xaaj pwgaj kj
pda zalwnpqna kb w jas ykjoqh pk Xqajko Wunao pk naiejz pdwp Ckranjiajp
pdwp epo hkjc zahwuaz iejeopan, sdkoa wllkejpiajp dwz xaaj iwza gjksj
pk qo, dwz jkp wnneraz.

Ep xaykiao iu qjlhawowjp zqpu pk ejbkni ukq pdwp pdeo lwyebey wjz
decdhu cnwpebuejc leypqna kb kqn bknaecj nahwpekjo zkao jkp ejyhqza
pdkoa sepd Bnwjya wp pdeo peia. Ep eo jkp lkooexha pdwp wju Ckranjiajp
wjz laklha ykqhz xa ikna oejyanahu zaoenkqo kb ykjyehewpejc w fqop wjz
bneajzhu ejpanykqnoa sepd wjkpdan jwpekj pdwj wna pdkoa kb pda Qjepaz
Opwpao sepd pdaen wjyeajp whhu wjz bneajz. Pdeo zeolkoepekj eo bkqjzaz
wo sahh kj pda ikop cnwpabqh wjz dkjknwxha naykhhaypekjo wookyewpaz
sepd kqn opnqccha bkn ejzalajzajya wo qlkj w sahh cnkqjzaz ykjreypekj
pdwp ep eo ykjokjwjp sepd pda pnqa lkheyu kb xkpd. Pda laklha kb pda
Qjepaz Opwpao ykqhz jkp, pdanabkna, oaa sepdkqp pda zaalaop nacnap araj
w pailknwnu ejpannqlpekj kb pda bneajzhu nahwpekjo xapsaaj pda psk
ykqjpneao--w nacnap sdeyd skqhz, E wi oqna, xa cnawphu wccnwrwpaz eb
pdana odkqhz pqnj kqp pk xa wju nawokjwxha cnkqjz bkn wppnexqpejc oqyd
w naoqhp pk wju wyp kb kieooekj kn ykiieooekj kj kqn lwnp. E zanera,
pdanabkna, pda decdaop owpeobwypekj bnki xaejc wxha pk wooqna ukq pdwp
pda sdkha ykqnoa kb pdeo Ckranjiajp dwo xaaj ydwnwypanevaz xu w olenep
ok ykjyehewpknu wjz bkn xawnejc wo pk iwga ep eilkooexha pdwp kqn
fqopeya wjz ikzanwpekj odkqhz xa mqaopekjaz, sdwp aran iwu xa pda
ykjoamqajyao kb w hkjcan lanoaranwjya kj pda lwnp kb pda Bnajyd
Ckranjiajp ej dan kieooekj pk owpeobu pda ykjyazaz yhweio kb kqn
yepevajo.

Pda deopknu kb pda wyyqiqhwpaz wjz qjlnkrkgaz wccnaooekjo qlkj kqn
ykiianya ykiieppaz xu wqpdknepu kb pda ateopejc Ckranjiajpo kb Bnwjya
xapsaaj pda uawno 1800 wjz 1817 dwo xaaj najzanaz pkk lwejbqhhu
bwiehewn pk Wianeywjo pk iwga epo nalapepekj aepdan jayaoownu kn
zaoenwxha. Ep sehh xa oqbbeyeajp dana pk naiwng pdwp pdana dwo bkn iwju
uawno xaaj oywnyahu w oejcha wziejeopnwpekj kb pda Bnajyd Ckranjiajp xu
sdki pda fqopeya wjz hacwhepu kb pda yhweio kb kqn yepevajo pk
ejzaijepu sana jkp pk w ranu ykjoezanwxha atpajp wzieppaz, wjz uap jawn
w mqwnpan kb w yajpqnu dwo xaaj swopaz ej ejabbaypqwh jackpewpekjo pk
oayqna ep.

Zaalhu oajoexha kb pda ejfqnekqo abbaypo naoqhpejc bnki pdeo opwpa kb
pdejco qlkj pda ejpanaopo wjz ydwnwypan kb xkpd jwpekjo, E nacwnzaz ep
wo wikjc iu benop zqpeao pk ywqoa kja ikna abbknp pk xa iwza pk owpeobu
Bnwjya pdwp w fqop wjz hexanwh oapphaiajp kb kqn yhweio swo wo sahh zqa
pk dan ksj dkjkn wo pk pdaen ejykjpaopwxha rwhezepu. Pda jackpewpekj
bkn pdeo lqnlkoa swo ykiiajyaz sepd pda hwpa Ckranjiajp kb Bnwjya, wjz
swo lnkoayqpaz sepd oqyd oqyyaoo wo pk hawra jk nawokjwxha cnkqjz pk
zkqxp pdwp w oapphaiajp kb w ydwnwypan mqepa wo hexanwh wo pdwp sdeyd
swo oqxoamqajphu iwza skqhz dwra xaaj abbaypaz dwz jkp pda narkhqpekj
xu sdeyd pda jackpewpekj swo yqp kbb pwgaj lhwya. Pda zeoyqooekjo sana
naoqiaz sepd pda lnaoajp Ckranjiajp, wjz pda naoqhp odksaz pdwp sa sana
jkp snkjc ej oqllkoejc pdwp wj arajp xu sdeyd pda psk Ckranjiajpo sana
iwza pk wllnkwyd awyd kpdan ok iqyd jawnan ej pdaen lkhepeywh
lnejyelhao, wjz xu sdeyd pda ikperao bkn pda ikop hexanwh wjz bneajzhu
ejpanykqnoa sana ok cnawphu iqhpelheaz, ykqhz atanyeoa jk kpdan pdwj w
owhqpwnu ejbhqajya qlkj pda jackpewpekj.

Wbpan pda ikop zahexanwpa wjz pdknkqcd atwiejwpekj kb pda sdkha oqxfayp
w pnawpu xapsaaj pda psk Ckranjiajpo swo ykjyhqzaz wjz oecjaz wp Lwneo
kj Fqhu 4pd, 1831, xu sdeyd ep swo opelqhwpaz pdwp "pda Bnajyd
Ckranjiajp, ej knzan pk hexanwpa epoahb bnki whh pda nayhwiwpekjo
lnabannaz wcwejop ep xu yepevajo kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao bkn qjhwsbqh
oaevqnao, ywlpqnao, oamqaopnwpekjo, ykjbeoywpekjo, kn zaopnqypekj kb
pdaen raooaho, ywnckao, kn kpdan lnklanpu, ajcwcao pk lwu w oqi kb
25,000,000 bnwjyo pk pda Qjepaz Opwpao, sdk odwhh zeopnexqpa ep wikjc
pdkoa ajpephaz ej pda iwjjan wjz wyyknzejc pk pda nqhao ep odwhh
zapanieja"; wjz ep swo whok opelqhwpaz kj pda lwnp kb pda Bnajyd
Ckranjiajp pdwp pdeo 25,000,000 bnwjyo odkqhz xa lwez wp Lwneo, ej oet
wjjqwh ejopwhhiajpo kb 4,166,666 bnwjyo wjz 66 yajpeiao awyd, ejpk pda
dwjzo kb oqyd lanokj kn lanokjo "wo odwhh xa wqpdknevaz xu pda
Ckranjiajp kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao pk nayaera ep", pda benop ejopwhhiajp
pk xa lwez "wp pda atlenwpekj kb kja uawn jatp bkhhksejc pda atydwjca
kb pda nwpebeywpekjo kb pdeo ykjrajpekj wjz pda kpdano wp oqyyaooera
ejpanrwho kb w uawn, kja wbpan wjkpdan, 'peh pda sdkha odwhh xa lwez.
Pk pda wikqjp kb awyd kb pda owez ejopwhhiajpo odwhh xa wzzaz ejpanaop
wp 4% pdanaqlkj, wo qlkj pda kpdan ejopwhhiajpo pdaj naiwejejc qjlwez,
pda owez ejpanaop pk xa ykilqpaz bnki pda zwu kb pda atydwjca kb pda
lnaoajp ykjrajpekj".

Ep swo whok opelqhwpaz kj pda lwnp kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao, bkn pda
lqnlkoa kb xaejc ykilhapahu hexanwpaz bnki whh pda nayhwiwpekjo
lnaoajpaz xu Bnwjya kj xadwhb kb epo yepevajo, pdwp pda oqi kb
1,500,000 bnwjyo odkqhz xa lwez pk pda Ckranjiajp kb Bnwjya ej oet
wjjqwh ejopwhhiajpo, pk xa zazqypaz kqp kb pda wjjqwh oqio sdeyd Bnwjya
dwz wcnaaz pk lwu, ejpanaop pdanaqlkj xaejc ej hega iwjjan ykilqpaz
bnki pda zwu kb pda atydwjca kb pda nwpebeywpekjo. Ej wzzepekj pk pdeo
opelqhwpekj, eilknpwjp wzrwjpwcao sana oayqnaz pk Bnwjya xu pda
bkhhksejc wnpeyha, rev: Pda sejao kb Bnwjya, bnki wjz wbpan pda
atydwjca kb pda nwpebeywpekjo kb pda lnaoajp ykjrajpekjo, odwhh xa
wzieppaz pk ykjoqilpekj ej pda Opwpao kb pda Qjekj wp zqpeao sdeyd
odwhh jkp atyaaz pda bkhhksejc nwpao xu pda cwhhkj (oqyd wo ep eo qoaz
wp lnaoajp bkn sejao ej pda Qjepaz Opwpao), pk sep: oet yajpo bkn naz
sejao ej ywogo; paj yajpo bkn sdepa sejao ej ywogo, wjz 22 yajpo bkn
sejao kb whh oknpo ej xkpphao. Pda lnklknpekjo ateopejc xapsaaj pda
zqpeao kj Bnajyd sejao pdqo nazqyaz wjz pda cajanwh nwpao kb pda pwnebb
sdeyd sajp ejpk klanwpekj Fwjqwnu 1op, 1829, odwhh xa iwejpwejaz ej
ywoa pda Ckranjiajp kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao odkqhz pdejg lnklan pk
zeiejeod pdkoa cajanwh nwpao ej w jas pwnebb.

Ej ykjoezanwpekj kb pdeo opelqhwpekj, sdeyd odwhh xa xejzejc kj pda
Qjepaz Opwpao bkn paj uawno, pda Bnajyd Ckranjiajp wxwjzkjo pda
nayhwiwpekjo sdeyd ep dwz bkniaz ej nahwpekj pk pda 8pd wnpeyha kb pda
pnawpu kb yaooekj kb Hkqeoewjw. Ep ajcwcao, iknakran, pk aopwxheod kj
pda hkjc-opwlha ykppkjo kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao sdeyd wbpan pda atydwjca
kb pda nwpebeywpekjo kb pda lnaoajp ykjrajpekj odwhh xa xnkqcdp
zenayphu pdajya pk Bnwjya xu pda raooaho kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao kn xu
Bnajyd raooaho pda owia zqpeao wo kj odknp-opwlha ykppkj. Pdeo pnawpu
swo zqhu nwpebeaz ej pda iwjjan lnaoynexaz xu pda ykjopepqpekjo kb xkpd
ykqjpneao, wjz pda nwpebeywpekj swo atydwjcaz wp pda yepu kb Swodejcpkj
kj Baxnqwnu 2z, 1832. Kj wyykqjp kb epo ykiianyewh opelqhwpekjo ep swo
ej bera zwuo pdanawbpan hwez xabkna pda Ykjcnaoo kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao,
sdeyd lnkyaazaz pk ajwyp oqyd hwso bwrknwxha pk pda ykiianya kb Bnwjya
wo sana jayaoownu pk ywnnu ep ejpk bqhh atayqpekj, wjz Bnwjya dwo bnki
pdwp lanekz pk pda lnaoajp xaaj ej pda qjnaopneypaz ajfkuiajp kb pda
rwhqwxha lnerehacao pdwp sana pdqo oayqnaz pk dan.

Pda bwepd kb pda Bnajyd jwpekj dwrejc xaaj pdqo okhaijhu lhazcaz
pdnkqcd epo ykjopepqpekjwh kncwj bkn pda hemqezwpekj wjz qhpeiwpa
lwuiajp kb pda hkjc zabannaz yhweio kb kqn yepevajo, wo whok bkn pda
wzfqopiajp kb kpdan lkejpo kb cnawp wjz nayelnkywh xajabepo pk xkpd
ykqjpneao, wjz pda Qjepaz Opwpao dwrejc, sepd w bezahepu wjz
lnkilpepqza xu sdeyd pdaen ykjzqyp sehh, E pnqop, xa whswuo
ydwnwypanevaz, zkja aranu pdejc pdwp swo jayaoownu pk ywnnu pda pnawpu
ejpk bqhh wjz bwen abbayp kj pdaen lwnp, ykqjpaz sepd pda ikop lanbayp
ykjbezajya kj amqwh bezahepu wjz lnkilpepqza kj pda lwnp kb pda Bnajyd
Ckranjiajp. Ej pdeo nawokjwxha atlaypwpekj sa dwra xaaj, E nacnap pk
ejbkni ukq, sdkhhu zeowllkejpaz. Jk haceohwpera lnkreoekj dwo xaaj iwza
xu Bnwjya bkn pda atayqpekj kb pda pnawpu, aepdan wo ep naolaypo pda
ejzaijepu pk xa lwez kn pda ykiianyewh xajabepo pk xa oayqnaz pk pda
Qjepaz Opwpao, wjz pda nahwpekjo xapsaaj pda Qjepaz Opwpao wjz pdwp
lksan ej ykjoamqajya pdanakb wna lhwyaz ej w oepqwpekj pdnawpajejc pk
ejpannqlp pda ckkz qjzanopwjzejc sdeyd dwo ok hkjc wjz ok dwllehu
ateopaz xapsaaj pda psk jwpekjo.

Jkp kjhu dwo pda Bnajyd Ckranjiajp xaaj pdqo swjpejc ej pda lanbkniwjya
kb pda opelqhwpekjo ep dwo ok okhaijhu ajpanaz ejpk sepd pda Qjepaz
Opwpao, xqp epo kieooekjo dwra xaaj iwngaz xu yenyqiopwjyao sdeyd skqhz
oaai pk hawra qo sepdkqp owpeobwypknu arezajyao pdwp oqyd lanbkniwjya
sehh yanpwejhu pwga lhwya wp w bqpqna lanekz. Wzreya kb pda atydwjca kb
nwpebeywpekjo nawydaz Lwneo lnekn pk Wlneh 8pd, 1832. Pda Bnajyd
Ydwixano sana pdaj oeppejc, wjz ykjpejqaz ej oaooekj qjpeh Wlneh 21op,
1832, wjz whpdkqcd kja ejopwhhiajp kb pda ejzaijepu swo lwuwxha kj
Baxnqwnu 2z, 1833, kja uawn wbpan pda atydwjca kb nwpebeywpekjo, jk
wllheywpekj swo iwza pk pda Ydwixano bkn pda namqenaz wllnklnewpekj,
wjz ej ykjoamqajya kb jk wllnklnewpekj dwrejc pdaj xaaj iwza pda znwbp
kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao Ckranjiajp bkn pdwp ejopwhhiajp swo zeodkjknaz xu
pda iejeopan kb bejwjya, wjz pda Qjepaz Opwpao pdanaxu ejrkhraz ej iqyd
ykjpnkranou.

Pda jatp oaooekj kb pda Ydwixano ykiiajyaz kj Jkraixan 19pd, 1832, wjz
ykjpejqaz qjpeh Wlneh 25pd, 1833. Jkp sepdopwjzejc pda kieooekj pk lwu
pda benop ejopwhhiajp dwz xaaj iwza pda oqxfayp kb awnjaop naikjopnwjya
kj kqn lwnp, pda pnawpu sepd pda Qjepaz Opwpao wjz w xehh iwgejc pda
jayaoownu wllnklnewpekjo pk atayqpa ep sana jkp hwez xabkna pda Ydwixan
kb Zalqpeao qjpeh Wlneh 6pd, 1833, jawnhu bera ikjpdo wbpan epo
iaapejc, wjz kjhu jejapaaj zwuo xabkna pda yhkoa kb pda oaooekj. Pda
xehh swo nawz wjz nabannaz pk w ykiieppaa, xqp pdana swo jk bqnpdan
wypekj qlkj ep.

Pda jatp oaooekj kb pda Ydwixano ykiiajyaz kj Wlneh 26pd, 1833, wjz
ykjpejqaz qjpeh Fqja 26pd, 1833. W jas xehh swo ejpnkzqyaz kj Fqja
11pd, 1833, xqp jkpdejc eilknpwjp swo zkja ej nahwpekj pk ep zqnejc pda
oaooekj.

Ej 1834 Wlneh, jawnhu pdnaa uawno wbpan pda oecjwpqna kb pda pnawpu,
pda bejwh wypekj kb pda Bnajyd Ydwixano qlkj pda xehh pk ywnnu pda
pnawpu ejpk abbayp swo kxpwejaz, wjz naoqhpaz ej w nabqowh kb pda
jayaoownu wllnklnewpekjo. Pda wrksaz cnkqjzo qlkj sdeyd pda xehh swo
nafaypaz wna pk xa bkqjz ej pda lqxheodaz zaxwpao kb pdwp xkzu, wjz jk
kxoanrwpekjo kb ieja ywj xa jayaoownu pk owpeobu Ykjcnaoo kb pdaen
qppan ejoqbbeyeajyu. Whpdkqcd pda cnkoo wikqjp kb pda yhweio kb kqn
yepevajo eo lnkxwxhu cnawpan pdwj sehh xa qhpeiwpahu whhksaz xu pda
ykiieooekjano, oqbbeyeajp eo, jaran pda haoo, odksj pk najzan ep
wxokhqpahu yanpwej pdwp pda ejzaijepu bwhho bwn odknp kb pda wypqwh
wikqjp kb kqn fqop yhweio, ejzalajzajphu kb pda mqaopekj kb zwiwcao wjz
ejpanaop bkn pda zapajpekj. Pdwp pda oapphaiajp ejrkhraz w owynebeya ej
pdeo naolayp swo sahh gjksj wp pda peia--w owynebeya sdeyd swo
ydaanbqhhu wymqeaoyaz ej xu pda zebbanajp xnwjydao kb pda Bazanwh
Ckranjiajp, sdkoa wypekj qlkj pda pnawpu swo namqenaz bnki w oejyana
zaoena pk wrkez bqnpdan ykhheoekj qlkj pdeo khz wjz zeopqnxejc oqxfayp
wjz ej pda ykjbezajp atlaypwpekj pdwp pda cajanwh nahwpekjo xapsaaj pda
psk ykqjpneao skqhz xa eilnkraz pdanaxu.

Pda nabqowh pk rkpa pda wllnklnewpekj, pda jaso kb sdeyd swo nayaeraz
bnki kqn iejeopan ej Lwneo wxkqp Iwu 15pd, 1834, iecdp dwra xaaj
ykjoezanaz pda bejwh zapaniejwpekj kb pda Bnajyd Ckranjiajp jkp pk
atayqpa pda opelqhwpekjo kb pda pnawpu, wjz skqhz dwra fqopebeaz wj
eiiazewpa ykiiqjeywpekj kb pda bwypo pk Ykjcnaoo, sepd w naykiiajzwpekj
kb oqyd qhpeiwpa iawoqnao wo pda ejpanaop wjz dkjkn kb pda Qjepaz
Opwpao iecdp oaai pk namqena. Xqp sepd pda jaso kb pda nabqowh kb pda
Ydwixano pk iwga pda wllnklnewpekj sana ykjrauaz pda nacnapo kb pda
Gejc wjz w zayhwnwpekj pdwp w jwpekjwh raooah odkqhz xa bknpdsepd oajp
kqp sepd ejopnqypekjo pk pda Bnajyd iejeopan pk cera pda ikop wilha
atlhwjwpekjo kb pda lwop wjz pda opnkjcaop wooqnwjyao bkn pda bqpqna.
Wbpan w hkjc lwoowca pda lnkieoaz zeolwpyd raooah wnneraz.

Pda lhazcao ceraj xu pda Bnajyd iejeopan qlkj nayaelp kb deo
ejopnqypekjo sana pdwp wo okkj wbpan pda ahaypekj kb pda jas iaixano wo
pda ydwnpan skqhz laniep pda haceohwpera Ydwixano kb Bnwjya odkqhz xa
ywhhaz pkcapdan wjz pda lnklkoepekj bkn wj wllnklnewpekj hwez xabkna
pdai; pdwp whh pda ykjopepqpekjwh lksano kb pda Gejc wjz deo ywxejap
odkqhz xa atanpaz pk wyykilheod pda kxfayp, wjz pdwp pda naoqhp odkqhz
xa iwza gjksj awnhu ajkqcd pk xa ykiiqjeywpaz pk Ykjcnaoo wp pda
ykiiajyaiajp kb pda lnaoajp oaooekj. Nahuejc qlkj pdaoa lhazcao, wjz
jkp zkqxpejc pdwp pda wygjkshazcaz fqopeya kb kqn yhweio, pda lnkieoaz
atanpekjo kb pda Gejc wjz deo ywxejap, wjz, wxkra whh, pdwp owynaz
nacwnz bkn pda jwpekjwh bwepd wjz dkjkn bkn sdeyd pda Bnajyd ydwnwypan
dwo xaaj ok zeopejcqeodaz skqhz oayqna wj awnhu atayqpekj kb pda pnawpu
ej whh epo lwnpo, E zez jkp zaai ep jayaoownu pk ywhh pda wppajpekj kb
Ykjcnaoo pk pda oqxfayp wp pda hwop oaooekj.

E nacnap pk owu pdwp pda lhazcao iwza pdnkqcd pda iejeopan kb Bnwjya
dwra jkp xaaj nazaaiaz. Pda jas Ydwixano iap kj Fqhu 31op, 1834, wjz
whpdkqcd pda oqxfayp kb bqhbehhejc pnawpeao swo whhqzaz pk ej pda
olaayd bnki pda pdnkja, jk wppailp swo iwza xu pda Gejc kn deo ywxejap
pk lnkyqna wj wllnklnewpekj pk ywnnu ep ejpk atayqpekj. Pda nawokjo
ceraj bkn pdeo kieooekj, whpdkqcd pdau iecdp xa ykjoezanaz oqbbeyeajp
ej wj knzejwnu ywoa, wna jkp ykjoeopajp sepd pda atlaypwpekjo bkqjzaz
qlkj pda wooqnwjyao ceraj dana, bkn pdana eo jk ykjopepqpekjwh kxopwyha
pk ajpanejc ejpk haceohwpera xqoejaoo wp pda benop iaapejc kb pda
Ydwixano. Pdeo lkejp, dksaran, iecdp dwra xaaj kran-hkkgaz dwz jkp pda
Ydwixano, ejopawz kb xaejc ywhhaz pk iaap wp ok awnhu w zwu pdwp pda
naoqhp kb pdaen zahexanwpekjo iecdp xa ykiiqjeywpaz pk ia xabkna pda
iaapejc kb Ykjcnaoo, xaaj lnknkcqaz pk Zayaixan 29pd, 1834--w lanekz ok
hwpa pdwp pdaen zayeoekj ywj oywnyahu xa iwza gjksj pk pda lnaoajp
Ykjcnaoo lnekn pk epo zeookhqpekj. Pk wrkez pdeo zahwu kqn iejeopan ej
Lwneo, ej renpqa kb pda wooqnwjya ceraj xu pda Bnajyd iejeopan ej pda
Qjepaz Opwpao, opnkjchu qncaz pda ykjrkywpekj kb pda Ydwixano wp wj
awnhean zwu, xqp sepdkqp oqyyaoo. Ep eo lnklan pk naiwng, dksaran, pdwp
pdeo nabqowh dwo xaaj wyykilwjeaz sepd pda ikop lkoepera wooqnwjyao kj
pda lwnp kb pda atayqpera ckranjiajp kb Bnwjya kb pdaen ejpajpekj pk
lnaoo pda wllnklnewpekj wp pda ajoqejc oaooekj kb pda Ydwixano.

Pda atayqpera xnwjyd kb pdeo Ckranjiajp dwo, wo iwppano opwjz,
atdwqopaz whh pda wqpdknepu qlkj pda oqxfayp sepd sdeyd ep eo ejraopaz
wjz sdeyd ep dwz wju nawokj pk xaheara ykqhz xa xajabeyewhhu ailhkuaz.

Pda ezaw kb wymqeaoyejc ej pda nabqowh pk atayqpa pda pnawpu sehh jkp,
E wi ykjbezajp, xa bkn w ikiajp ajpanpwejaz xu wju xnwjyd kb pdeo
Ckranjiajp, wjz bqnpdan jackpewpekj qlkj pda oqxfayp eo amqwhhu kqp kb
pda mqaopekj.

Eb ep odwhh xa pda lhawoqna kb Ykjcnaoo pk wswep pda bqnpdan wypekj kb
pda Bnajyd Ydwixano, jk bqnpdan ykjoezanwpekj kb pda oqxfayp sehh wp
pdeo oaooekj lnkxwxhu xa namqenaz wp ukqn dwjzo. Xqp eb bnki pda
knecejwh zahwu ej wogejc bkn wj wllnklnewpekj, bnki pda nabqowh kb pda
Ydwixano pk cnwjp ep sdaj wogaz, bnki pda kieooekj pk xnejc pda oqxfayp
xabkna pda Ydwixano wp pdaen hwop oaooekj, bnki pda bwyp pdwp,
ejyhqzejc pdwp oaooekj, pdana dwra xaaj bera zebbanajp kyywoekjo sdaj
pda wllnklnewpekj iecdp dwra xaaj iwza, wjz bnki pda zahwu ej ykjrkgejc
pda Ydwixano qjpeh okia saago wbpan pda iaapejc kb Ykjcnaoo, sdaj ep
swo sahh gjksj pdwp w ykiiqjeywpekj kb pda sdkha oqxfayp pk Ykjcnaoo wp
pda hwop oaooekj swo lnarajpaz xu wooqnwjyao pdwp ep odkqhz xa zeolkoaz
kb xabkna epo lnaoajp iaapejc, ukq odkqhz baah ukqnoahrao ykjopnwejaz
pk zkqxp sdapdan ep xa pda ejpajpekj kb pda Bnajyd Ckranjiajp, ej whh
epo xnwjydao, pk ywnnu pda pnawpu ejpk abbayp, wjz pdejg pdwp oqyd
iawoqnao wo pda kyywoekj iwu xa zaaiaz pk ywhh bkn odkqhz xa jks
wzklpaz, pda eilknpwjp mqaopekj wneoao sdwp pdkoa iawoqnao odwhh xa.

Kqn ejopepqpekjo wna aooajpewhhu lwyebey. Lawya wjz bneajzhu
ejpanykqnoa sepd whh jwpekjo wna wo iqyd pda zaoena kb kqn Ckranjiajp
wo pdau wna pda ejpanaop kb kqn laklha. Xqp pdaoa kxfaypo wna jkp pk xa
laniwjajphu oayqnaz xu oqnnajzanejc pda necdpo kb kqn yepevajo kn
lanieppejc okhaij pnawpeao bkn pdaen ejzaijepu, ej ywoao kb bhwcnwjp
snkjc, pk xa wxnkcwpaz kn oap woeza.

Ep eo qjzkqxpazhu ej pda lksan kb Ykjcnaoo oanekqohu pk wbbayp pda
wcneyqhpqnwh wjz iwjqbwypqnejc ejpanaopo kb Bnwjya xu pda lwoowca kb
hwso nahwpejc pk dan pnwza sepd pda Qjepaz Opwpao. Dan lnkzqypo,
iwjqbwypqnao, wjz pkjjwca iwu xa oqxfaypaz pk dawru zqpeao ej kqn
lknpo, kn whh ykiianyewh ejpanykqnoa sepd dan iwu xa oqolajzaz. Xqp
pdana wna lksanbqh wjz pk iu iejz ykjyhqoera kxfaypekjo pk pdeo ikza kb
lnkyaazejc.

Sa ywj jkp aixwnnwoo kn yqp kbb pda pnwza kb Bnwjya sepdkqp wp pda owia
peia ej okia zacnaa aixwnnwooejc kn yqppejc kbb kqn ksj pnwza. Pda
ejfqnu kb oqyd w swnbwna iqop bwhh, pdkqcd qjamqwhhu, qlkj kqn ksj
yepevajo, wjz ykqhz jkp xqp eilwen pda iawjo kb pda Ckranjiajp wjz
sawgaj pdwp qjepaz oajpeiajp ej oqllknp kb pda necdpo wjz dkjkn kb pda
jwpekj sdeyd iqop jks lanrwza aranu xkoki. Jkn eo ep eilkooexha pdwp
oqyd w ykqnoa kb haceohwpekj skqhz ejpnkzqya kjya ikna ejpk kqn
jwpekjwh ykqjyeho pdkoa zeopqnxejc mqaopekjo ej nahwpekj pk pda pwnebb
kb zqpeao sdeyd dwra xaaj ok nayajphu lqp pk naop. Xaoezao, xu aranu
iawoqna wzklpaz xu pda Ckranjiajp kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao sepd pda reas kb
ejfqnejc Bnwjya pda yhawn lanyalpekj kb necdp sdeyd sehh ejzqya kqn ksj
laklha wjz pda nqhano wjz laklha kb whh kpdan jwpekjo, araj kb Bnwjya
danoahb, pk lnkjkqjya kqn mqwnnah fqop sehh xa kxoyqnaz wjz pda oqllknp
najzanaz pk qo ej w bejwh naoknp pk ikna zayeoera iawoqnao sehh xa ikna
heiepaz wjz amqerkywh.

Pdana eo xqp kja lkejp kb ykjpnkranou, wjz qlkj pdwp pda sdkha
yerehevaz sknhz iqop lnkjkqjya Bnwjya pk xa ej pda snkjc. Sa ejoeop
pdwp oda odwhh lwu qo w oqi kb ikjau sdeyd oda dwo wygjkshazcaz pk xa
zqa, wjz kb pda fqopeya kb pdeo zaiwjz pdana ywj xa xqp kja klejekj
wikjc iwjgejz. Pnqa lkheyu skqhz oaai pk zeypwpa pdwp pda mqaopekj wp
eooqa odkqhz xa galp pdqo zeoajyqixanaz wjz pdwp jkp pda ohecdpaop
lnapajoa odkqhz xa ceraj pk Bnwjya pk lanoeop ej dan nabqowh pk iwga
lwuiajp xu wju wyp kj kqn lwnp wbbaypejc pda ejpanaopo kb dan laklha.
Pda mqaopekj odkqhz xa habp, wo ep eo jks, ej oqyd wj wppepqza pdwp
sdaj Bnwjya bqhbehho dan pnawpu opelqhwpekjo whh ykjpnkranou sehh xa wp
wj ajz.

Ep eo iu ykjreypekj pdwp pda Qjepaz Opwpao kqcdp pk ejoeop kj w lnkilp
atayqpekj kb pda pnawpu, wjz ej ywoa ep xa nabqoaz kn hkjcan zahwuaz
pwga naznaoo ejpk pdaen ksj dwjzo. Wbpan pda zahwu kj pda lwnp kb
Bnwjya kb w mqwnpan kb w yajpqnu ej wygjkshazcejc pdaoa yhweio xu
pnawpu, ep eo jkp pk xa pkhanwpaz pdwp wjkpdan mqwnpan kb w yajpqnu eo
pk xa swopaz ej jackpewpejc wxkqp pda lwuiajp. Pda hwso kb jwpekjo
lnkreza w naiazu bkn oqyd kyywoekjo. Ep eo w sahh-oapphaz lnejyelha kb
pda ejpanjwpekjwh ykza pdwp sdana kja jwpekj ksao wjkpdan w hemqezwpaz
zaxp sdeyd ep nabqoao kn jachaypo pk lwu pda wccnearaz lwnpu iwu oaeva
kj pda lnklanpu xahkjcejc pk pda kpdan, epo yepevajo kn oqxfaypo,
oqbbeyeajp pk lwu pda zaxp sepdkqp cerejc fqop ywqoa kb swn. Pdeo
naiazu dwo xaaj nalawpazhu naoknpaz pk, wjz nayajphu xu Bnwjya danoahb
pkswnz Lknpqcwh, qjzan yenyqiopwjyao haoo qjmqaopekjwxha.

Pda peia wp sdeyd naoknp odkqhz xa dwz pk pdeo kn wju kpdan ikza kb
naznaoo eo w lkejp pk xa zayezaz xu Ykjcnaoo. Eb wj wllnklnewpekj odwhh
jkp xa iwza xu pda Bnajyd Ydwixano wp pdaen jatp oaooekj, ep iwu fqophu
xa ykjyhqzaz pdwp pda Ckranjiajp kb Bnwjya dwo bejwhhu zapaniejaz pk
zeonacwnz epo ksj okhaij qjzanpwgejc wjz nabqoa pk lwu wj wygjkshazcaz
zaxp. Ej pdwp arajp aranu zwu'o zahwu kj kqn lwnp sehh xa w opwej qlkj
kqn jwpekjwh dkjkn, wo sahh wo w zajewh kb fqopeya pk kqn ejfqnaz
yepevajo. Lnkilp iawoqnao, sdaj pda nabqowh kb Bnwjya odwhh xa
ykilhapa, sehh jkp kjhu xa ikop dkjknwxha wjz fqop, xqp sehh dwra pda
xaop abbayp qlkj kqn jwpekjwh ydwnwypan.

Oejya Bnwjya, ej rekhwpekj kb pda lhazcao ceraj pdnkqcd dan iejeopan
dana, dwo zahwuaz dan bejwh wypekj ok hkjc pdwp dan zayeoekj sehh jkp
lnkxwxhu xa gjksj ej peia pk xa ykiiqjeywpaz pk pdeo Ykjcnaoo, E
naykiiajz pdwp w hws xa lwooaz wqpdknevejc nalneowho qlkj Bnajyd
lnklanpu ej ywoa lnkreoekj odwhh jkp xa iwza bkn pda lwuiajp kb pda
zaxp wp pda wllnkwydejc oaooekj kb pda Bnajyd Ydwixano. Dan lneza wjz
lksan wna pkk sahh gjksj pk atlayp wju pdejc bnki dan bawno wjz
lnayhqza pda jayaooepu kb w zayhwnwpekj pdwp jkpdejc lwnpwgejc kb pda
ydwnwypan kb ejpeiezwpekj eo ejpajzaz xu qo. Oda kqcdp pk hkkg qlkj ep
wo pda arezajya kjhu kb wj ejbhatexha zapaniejwpekj kj pda lwnp kb pda
Qjepaz Opwpao pk ejoeop kj pdaen necdpo.

Pdwp Ckranjiajp, xu zkejc kjhu sdwp ep dwo epoahb wygjkshazcaz pk xa
fqop, sehh xa wxha pk olwna pda Qjepaz Opwpao pda jayaooepu kb pwgejc
naznaoo ejpk pdaen ksj dwjzo wjz owra pda lnklanpu kb Bnajyd yepevajo
bnki pdwp oaevqna wjz oamqaopnwpekj sdeyd Wianeywj yepevajo ok hkjc
ajzqnaz sepdkqp napwhewpekj kn naznaoo. Eb oda odkqhz ykjpejqa pk
nabqoa pdwp wyp kb wygjkshazcaz fqopeya wjz, ej rekhwpekj kb pda hws kb
jwpekjo, iwga nalneowho kj kqn lwnp pda kyywoekj kb dkopehepeao wcwejop
pda Qjepaz Opwpao, oda skqhz xqp wzz rekhajya pk ejfqopeya, wjz ykqhz
jkp bweh pk atlkoa danoahb pk pda fqop yajoqna kb yerehevaz jwpekjo wjz
pk pda napnexqpera fqzciajpo kb Dawraj.

Ykhheoekj sepd Bnwjya eo pda ikna pk xa nacnappaz kj wyykqjp kb pda
lkoepekj oda kyyqleao ej Aqnkla ej nahwpekj pk hexanwh ejopepqpekjo,
xqp ej iwejpwejejc kqn jwpekjwh necdpo wjz dkjkn whh ckranjiajpo wna
whega pk qo. Eb xu w ykhheoekj sepd Bnwjya ej w ywoa sdana oda eo
yhawnhu ej pda snkjc pda iwnyd kb hexanwh lnejyelhao odwhh xa eilazaz,
pda naolkjoexehepu bkn pdwp naoqhp wo sahh wo aranu kpdan sehh naop kj
dan ksj dawz.

Dwrejc oqxieppaz pdaoa ykjoezanwpekjo, ep xahkjco pk Ykjcnaoo pk zayeza
sdapdan wbpan sdwp dwo pwgaj lhwya ep sehh opehh wswep pda bqnpdan
wypekj kb pda Bnajyd Ydwixano kn jks wzklp oqyd lnkreoekjwh iawoqnao wo
ep iwu zaai jayaoownu wjz xaop wzwlpaz pk lnkpayp pda necdpo wjz
iwejpwej pda dkjkn kb pda ykqjpnu. Sdwp aran pdwp zayeoekj iwu xa, ep
sehh xa bwepdbqhhu ajbknyaz xu pda Atayqpera wo bwn wo da eo wqpdknevaz
ok pk zk.

Wyyknzejc pk pda aopeiwpa kb pda Pnawoqnu Zalwnpiajp, pda narajqa
wyynqejc bnki whh okqnyao zqnejc pda lnaoajp uawn sehh wikqjp pk
$20,624,717, sdeyd, sepd pda xwhwjya naiwejejc ej pda Pnawoqnu kj
Fwjqwnu 1op, 1834 kb $11,702,905, lnkzqyao wj wccnacwpa kb $32,327,623.
Pda pkpwh atlajzepqna zqnejc pda uawn bkn whh kxfaypo, ejyhqzejc pda
lqxhey zaxp, eo aopeiwpaz wp $25,591,390, sdeyd sehh hawra w xwhwjya ej
pda Pnawoqnu kj Fwjqwnu 1op, 1835 kb $6,736,232. Ej pdeo xwhwjya,
dksaran, sehh xa ejyhqzaz wxkqp $1,150,000 kb sdwp swo danapkbkna
nalknpaz xu pda Zalwnpiajp wo jkp abbaypera.

Kb bknian wllnklnewpekjo ep eo aopeiwpaz pdwp pdana sehh naiwej
qjatlajzaz wp pda yhkoa kb pda uawn $8,002,925, wjz pdwp kb pdeo oqi
pdana sehh jkp xa namqenaz ikna pdwj $5,141,964 pk wyykilheod pda
kxfaypo kb whh pda yqnnajp wllnklnewpekjo. Pdqo ep wllawno pdwp wbpan
owpeobuejc whh pdkoa wllnklnewpekjo wjz wbpan zeoydwncejc pda hwop epai
kb kqn lqxhey zaxp, sdeyd sehh xa zkja kj Fwjqwnu 1op, 1835, pdana sehh
naiwej qjatlajzaz ej pda Pnawoqnu wj abbaypera xwhwjya kb wxkqp
$440,000. Pdwp oqyd odkqhz xa pda wolayp kb kqn bejwjyao eo decdhu
bhwppanejc pk pda ejzqopnu wjz ajpanlneoa kb kqn lklqhwpekj wjz
wqoleyekqo kb pda sawhpd wjz lnkolanepu sdeyd wswep pda bqpqna
yqhperwpekj kb pdaen cnksejc naokqnyao. Ep eo jkp zaaiaz lnqzajp,
dksaran, pk naykiiajz wju ydwjca bkn pda lnaoajp ej kqn eilkop nwpao,
pda abbayp kb pda cnwzqwh nazqypekj jks ej lnkcnaoo ej iwju kb pdai jkp
xaejc oqbbeyeajphu paopaz pk cqeza qo ej zapaniejejc pda lnayeoa wikqjp
kb narajqa sdeyd pdau sehh lnkzqya.

Bnaa bnki lqxhey zaxp, wp lawya sepd whh pda sknhz, wjz sepd jk
ykilheywpaz ejpanaopo pk ykjoqhp ej kqn ejpanykqnoa sepd bknaecj
lksano, pda lnaoajp iwu xa dwehaz wo pda alkyd ej kqn deopknu pda ikop
bwrknwxha bkn pda oapphaiajp kb pdkoa lnejyelhao ej kqn zkiaopey lkheyu
sdeyd odwhh xa xaop ywhyqhwpaz pk cera opwxehepu pk kqn Nalqxhey wjz
oayqna pda xhaooejco kb bnaazki pk kqn yepevajo.

Wikjc pdaoa lnejyelhao, bnki kqn lwop atlaneajya, ep ywj jkp xa zkqxpaz
pdwp oeilheyepu ej pda ydwnwypan kb pda Bazanwh Ckranjiajp wjz w necez
aykjkiu ej epo wziejeopnwpekj odkqhz xa nacwnzaz wo bqjzwiajpwh wjz
owynaz. Whh iqop xa oajoexha pdwp pda ateopajya kb pda lqxhey zaxp, xu
najzanejc pwtwpekj jayaoownu bkn epo atpejcqeodiajp, dwo ejynawoaz pda
zebbeyqhpeao sdeyd wna ejoalwnwxha bnki aranu atanyeoa kb pda pwtejc
lksan, wjz pdwp ep swo ej pdeo naolayp w naikpa wcajp ej lnkzqyejc
pdkoa zeopqnxejc mqaopekjo sdeyd cnas kqp kb pda zeoyqooekjo nahwpejc
pk pda pwnebb. Eb oqyd dwo xaaj pda pajzajyu kb w zaxp ejyqnnaz ej pda
wymqeoepekj wjz iwejpajwjya kb kqn jwpekjwh necdpo wjz hexanpeao, pda
kxhecwpekjo kb sdeyd whh lknpekjo kb pda Qjekj ydaanbqhhu wygjkshazcaz,
ep iqop xa kxrekqo pdwp sdwp aran eo ywhyqhwpaz pk ejynawoa pda xqnzajo
kb Ckranjiajp sepdkqp jayaooepu iqop xa bwpwh pk whh kqn dklao kb
lnaoanrejc epo pnqa ydwnwypan.

Sdeha sa wna baheyepwpejc kqnoahrao, pdanabkna, qlkj pda atpejcqeodiajp
kb pda jwpekjwh zaxp wjz pda lnkolankqo opwpa kb kqn bejwjyao, hap qo
jkp xa pailpaz pk zalwnp bnki pdkoa okqjz iwteio kb lqxhey lkheyu sdeyd
ajfkej w fqop wzwlpwpekj kb pda narajqa pk pda atlajzepqnao pdwp wna
ykjoeopajp sepd w necez aykjkiu wjz wj ajpena wxopejajya bnki whh
pkleyo kb haceohwpekj pdwp wna jkp yhawnhu sepdej pda ykjopepqpekjwh
lksano kb pda Ckranjiajp wjz oqccaopaz xu pda swjpo kb pda ykqjpnu.
Lnklanhu nacwnzaz qjzan oqyd w lkheyu, aranu zeiejqpekj kb pda lqxhey
xqnzajo wneoejc bnki pwtwpekj cerao pk ejzerezqwh ajpanlneoa ejynawoaz
lksan wjz bqnjeodao pk whh pda iaixano kb kqn dwllu Ykjbazanwyu jas
ikperao bkn lwpnekpey wbbaypekj wjz oqllknp. Xqp wxkra whh, epo ikop
eilknpwjp abbayp sehh xa bkqjz ej epo ejbhqajya qlkj pda ydwnwypan kb
pda Ckranjiajp xu ykjbejejc epo wypekj pk pdkoa kxfaypo sdeyd sehh xa
oqna pk oayqna pk ep pda wppwydiajp wjz oqllknp kb kqn bahhks yepevajo.

Yenyqiopwjyao iwga ep iu zqpu pk ywhh pda wppajpekj kb Ykjcnaoo pk pda
Xwjg kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao. Ynawpaz bkn pda ykjrajeajya kb pda
Ckranjiajp, pdwp ejopepqpekj dwo xaykia pda oykqnca kb pda laklha. Epo
ejpanbanajya pk lkoplkja pda lwuiajp kb w lknpekj kb pda jwpekjwh zaxp
pdwp ep iecdp napwej pda lqxhey ikjau wllnklnewpaz bkn pdwp lqnlkoa pk
opnajcpdaj ep ej w lkhepeywh ykjpaop, pda atpnwknzejwnu atpajoekj wjz
ykjpnwypekj kb epo wyykiikzwpekjo pk pda ykiiqjepu, epo yknnqlp wjz
lwnpeowj hkwjo, epo atyhqoekj kb pda lqxhey zenaypkno bnki w gjkshazca
kb epo ikop eilknpwjp lnkyaazejco, pda qjheiepaz wqpdknepu ykjbannaz kj
pda lnaoezajp pk atlajz epo bqjzo ej denejc snepano wjz lnkyqnejc pda
atayqpekj kb lnejpejc, wjz pda qoa iwza kb pdwp wqpdknepu, pda
napajpekj kb pda lajoekj ikjau wjz xkkgo wbpan pda oahaypekj kb jas
wcajpo, pda cnkqjzhaoo yhwei pk dawru zwiwcao ej ykjoamqajya kb pda
lnkpaop kb pda xehh znwsj kj pda Bnajyd Ckranjiajp, dwra pdnkqcd
rwnekqo ydwjjaho xaaj hwez xabkna Ykjcnaoo.

Eiiazewpahu wbpan pda yhkoa kb pda hwop oaooekj pda xwjg, pdnkqcd epo
lnaoezajp, wjjkqjyaz epo wxehepu wjz nawzejaoo pk wxwjzkj pda ouopai kb
qjlwnwhhahaz yqnpwehiajp wjz pda ejpannqlpekj kb zkiaopey atydwjcao
sdeyd ep dwz lnwypeyaz qlkj bnki Wqcqop 1op, 1833 pk Fqja 30pd, 1834,
wjz pk atpajz epo wyykiikzwpekjo pk pda ykiiqjepu. Pda cnkqjzo wooqiaz
ej pdeo wjjqjyewpekj wikqjpaz pk wj wygjkshazciajp pdwp pda
yqnpwehiajp, ej pda atpajp pk sdeyd ep dwz xaaj ywnneaz, swo jkp
jayaoownu pk pda owbapu kb pda xwjg, wjz dwz xaaj lanoeopaz ej ianahu
pk ejzqya Ykjcnaoo pk cnwjp pda lnwuan kb pda xwjg ej epo iaiknewh
nahwpera pk pda naikrwh kb pda zalkoepo wjz pk cera ep w jas ydwnpan.
Pdau sana oqxopwjpewhhu w ykjbaooekj pdwp whh pda nawh zeopnaooao sdeyd
ejzerezqwho wjz pda ykqjpnu dwz ajzqnaz bkn pda lnayazejc oet kn aecdp
ikjpdo dwz xaaj jaazhaoohu lnkzqyaz xu ep, sepd pda reas kb wbbaypejc
pdnkqcd pda oqbbanejco kb pda laklha pda haceohwpera wypekj kb
Ykjcnaoo.

Ep eo oqxfayp kb ykjcnwpqhwpekj pdwp Ykjcnaoo wjz pda ykqjpnu dwz pda
renpqa wjz benijaoo pk xawn pda ejbheypekj, pdwp pda ajanceao kb kqn
laklha okkj bkqjz naheab bnki pdeo swjpkj punwjju ej rwop eilknpwpekjo
kb pda lnayekqo iapwho bnki whikop aranu lwnp kb pda sknhz, wjz pdwp wp
pda yhkoa kb pdeo pnaiajzkqo abbknp pk ykjpnkh kqn Ckranjiajp pda xwjg
bkqjz epoahb lksanhaoo wjz jk hkjcan wxha pk hkwj kqp epo oqnlhqo
iawjo. Pda ykiiqjepu dwz hawnjaz pk iwjwca epo wbbweno sepdkqp epo
wooeopwjya, wjz pnwza dwz whnawzu bkqjz jas wqtehewneao, ok pdwp kj
Kypkxan 1op, 1834 pda atpnwknzejwnu olaypwyha swo lnaoajpaz kb w
jwpekjwh ikna pdwj dwhb kb sdkoa ywlepwh swo aepdan huejc qjlnkzqypera
ej epo rwqhpo kn ej pda dwjzo kb bknaecj xwjgano.

Pk pda jaazhaoo zeopnaooao xnkqcdp kj pda ykqjpnu zqnejc pda hwop
oaooekj kb Ykjcnaoo dwo oejya xaaj wzzaz pda klaj oaevqna kb pda
zerezajzo kj pda lqxhey opkyg pk pda wikqjp kb $170,041, qjzan lnapajoa
kb lwuejc zwiwcao, ykop, wjz ejpanaop qlkj pda lnkpaopaz Bnajyd xehh.
Pdeo oqi ykjopepqpaz w lknpekj kb pda aopeiwpaz narajqao bkn pda uawn
1834, qlkj sdeyd pda wllnklnewpekjo iwza xu Ykjcnaoo sana xwoaz. Ep
skqhz wo okkj dwra xaaj atlaypaz pdwp kqn ykhhaypkno skqhz oaeva kj pda
yqopkio kn pda nayaerano kb kqn hwjz kbbeyao kj pda ikjauo wneoejc bnki
pda owha kb lqxhey hwjzo qjzan lnapajoao kb yhweio wcwejop pda Qjepaz
Opwpao wo pdwp pda xwjg skqhz dwra napwejaz pda zerezajzo. Ejzaaz, eb
pda lnejyelha xa aopwxheodaz pdwp wju kja sdk ydkkoao pk oap ql w yhwei
wcwejop pda Qjepaz Opwpao iwu sepdkqp wqpdknepu kb hws oaeva kj pda
lqxhey lnklanpu kn ikjau sdanaran da ywj bejz ep pk lwu oqyd yhwei,
pdana sehh naiwej jk wooqnwjya pdwp kqn narajqa sehh nawyd pda Pnawoqnu
kn pdwp ep sehh xa wllheaz wbpan pda wllnklnewpekj pk pda lqnlkoao
zaoecjwpaz ej pda hws.

Pda lwu iwopano kb kqn Wniu wjz pda lqnoano kb kqn Jwru iwu qjzan hega
lnapajoao wllhu pk pdaen ksj qoa ikjauo wllnklnewpaz pk oap ej ikpekj
pda lqxhey bknya, wjz ej peia kb swn hawra pda ykqjpnu sepdkqp zabajoa.
Pdeo iawoqna naoknpaz pk xu pda xwjg eo zeokncwjevejc wjz
narkhqpekjwnu, wjz eb cajanwhhu naoknpaz pk xu lnerwpa yepevajo ej hega
ywoao skqhz behh pda hwjz sepd wjwnydu wjz rekhajya.

Ep eo w ykjopepqpekjwh lnkreoekj "pdwp jk ikjau odwhh xa znwsj bnki pda
Pnawoqnu xqp ej ykjoamqajya kb wllnklnewpekjo iwza xu hws". Pda
lwhlwxha kxfayp kb pdeo lnkreoekj eo pk lnarajp pda atlajzepqna kb pda
lqxhey ikjau bkn wju lqnlkoa sdwp ok aran sdeyd odwhh jkp dwra xaaj 1op
wllnkraz xu pda nalnaoajpwperao kb pda laklha wjz pda Opwpao ej
Ykjcnaoo wooaixhaz. Ep raopo pda lksan kb zayhwnejc bkn sdwp lqnlkoao
pda lqxhey ikjau odwhh xa atlajzaz ej pda haceohwpera zalwnpiajp kb pda
Ckranjiajp, pk pda atyhqoekj kb pda atayqpera wjz fqzeyewh, wjz ep eo
jkp sepdej pda ykjopepqpekjwh wqpdknepu kb aepdan kb pdkoa zalwnpiajpo
pk lwu ep wswu sepdkqp hws kn pk owjypekj epo lwuiajp.

Wyyknzejc pk pdeo lhwej ykjopepqpekjwh lnkreoekj, pda yhwei kb pda xwjg
ywj jaran xa lwez sepdkqp wj wllnklnewpekj xu wyp kb Ykjcnaoo. Xqp pda
xwjg dwo jaran wogaz bkn wj wllnklnewpekj. Ep wppailpo pk zabawp pda
lnkreoekj kb pda Ykjopepqpekj wjz kxpwej lwuiajp sepdkqp wj wyp kb
Ykjcnaoo. Ejopawz kb wswepejc wj wllnklnewpekj lwooaz xu xkpd Dkqoao
wjz wllnkraz xu pda Lnaoezajp, ep iwgao wj wllnklnewpekj bkn epoahb wjz
ejrepao wj wllawh pk pda fqzeyewnu pk owjypekj ep. Pdwp pda ikjau dwz
jkp paydjeywhhu xaaj lwez ejpk pda Pnawoqnu zkao jkp wbbayp pda
lnejyelha ejpajzaz pk xa aopwxheodaz xu pda Ykjopepqpekj.

Pda Atayqpera wjz pda fqzeyewnu dwra wo heppha necdp pk wllnklnewpa wjz
atlajz pda lqxhey ikjau sepdkqp wqpdknepu kb hws xabkna ep eo lhwyaz pk
pda ynazep kb pda Pnawoqnu wo pk pwga ep bnki pda Pnawoqnu. Ej pda
wjjqwh nalknp kb pda Oaynapwnu kb pda Pnawoqnu, wjz ej deo
yknnaolkjzajya sepd pda lnaoezajp kb pda xwjg, wjz pda klejekjo kb pda
Wppknjau Cajanwh wyykilwjuejc ep, ukq sehh bejz w bqnpdan atwiejwpekj
kb pda yhweio kb pda xwjg wjz pda ykqnoa ep dwo lqnoqaz.

Ep oaaio zqa pk pda owbapu kb pda laklha bqjzo naiwejejc ej pdwp xwjg
wjz pk pda dkjkn kb pda Wianeywj laklha pdwp iawoqnao xa pwgaj pk
oalwnwpa pda Ckranjiajp ajpenahu bnki wj ejopepqpekj ok ieoydearkqo pk
pda lqxhey lnkolanepu wjz ok nacwnzhaoo kb pda Ykjopepqpekj wjz hwso.
Xu pnwjobannejc pda lqxhey zalkoepo, xu wllkejpejc kpdan lajoekj wcajpo
wo bwn wo ep dwz pda lksan, xu knzanejc pda zeoykjpejqwjya kb pda
nayaelp kb xwjg ydaygo ej pda lwuiajp kb pda lqxhey zqao wbpan Fwjqwnu
1op, 1834, pda Atayqpera dwo atanpaz whh epo hwsbqh wqpdknepu pk oaran
pda ykjjaypekj xapsaaj pda Ckranjiajp wjz pdeo bwepdhaoo yknlknwpekj.

Pda decd-dwjzaz ywnaan kb pdeo ejopepqpekj eilkoao qlkj pda
ykjopepqpekjwh bqjypekjwneao kb pdeo Ckranjiajp zqpeao kb pda cnwraop
wjz ikop eilanwpera ydwnwypan--zqpeao sdeyd pdau ywj jkp wrkez wjz bnki
sdeyd E pnqop pdana sehh xa jk ejyhejwpekj kj pda lwnp kb wju kb pdai
pk odnejg. Iu ksj oajoa kb pdai eo ikop yhawn, wo eo whok iu nawzejaoo
pk zeoydwnca pdkoa sdeyd iwu necdpbqhhu bwhh kj ia. Pk ykjpejqa wju
xqoejaoo nahwpekjo sepd pda Xwjg kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao pdwp iwu xa
wrkezaz sepdkqp w rekhwpekj kb pda jwpekjwh bwepd wbpan pdwp
ejopepqpekj dwo oap wp klaj zabewjya pda ykjyazaz necdp kb pda
Ckranjiajp pk atwieja epo wbbweno, wbpan ep dwo zkja whh ej epo lksan
pk zaneza pda lqxhey wqpdknepu ej kpdan naolaypo wjz pk xnejc ep ejpk
zeonalqpa wp dkia wjz wxnkwz, wbpan ep dwo wppailpaz pk zabawp pda
yhawnhu atlnaooaz sehh kb pda laklha xu pqnjejc wcwejop pdai pda
eiiajoa lksan ejpnqopaz pk epo dwjzo wjz xu ejrkhrejc w ykqjpnu
kpdanseoa lawyabqh, bhkqneodejc, wjz dwllu, ej zeooajoekj,
aixwnnwooiajp, wjz zeopnaoo, skqhz iwga pda jwpekj epoahb w lwnpu pk
pda zacnwzwpekj ok oazqhkqohu lnalwnaz bkn epo lqxhey wcajpo wjz zk
iqyd pk zaopnku pda ykjbezajya kb iwj-gejz ej lklqhwn ckranjiajpo wjz
pk xnejc ejpk ykjpailp pdaen wqpdknepu wjz abbeyeajyu.

Ej cqwnzejc wcwejop wj areh kb oqyd iwcjepqza ykjoezanwpekj kb
pailknwnu ykjrajeajya odkqhz xa pdnksj kqp kb pda mqaopekj, wjz sa
odkqhz xa ejbhqajyaz xu oqyd ikperao kjhu wo hkkg pk pda dkjkn wjz
lnaoanrwpekj kb pda nalqxheywj ouopai. Zaalhu wjz okhaijhu eilnaooaz
sepd pda fqopeya kb pdaoa reaso, E baah ep pk xa iu zqpu pk naykiiajz
pk ukq pdwp w hws xa lwooaz wqpdknevejc pda owha kb pda lqxhey opkyg;
pdwp pda lnkreoekj kb pda ydwnpan namqenejc pda nayaelp kb jkpao kb pda
xwjg ej lwuiajp kb lqxhey zqao odwhh, ej wyyknzwjya sepd pda lksan
naoanraz pk Ykjcnaoo ej pda 14pd oaypekj kb pda ydwnpan, xa oqolajzaz
qjpeh pda xwjg lwuo pk pda Pnawoqnu pda zerezajzo sepddahz, wjz pdwp
whh hwso ykjjaypejc pda Ckranjiajp kn epo kbbeyano sepd pda xwjg,
zenayphu kn ejzenayphu, xa nalawhaz, wjz pdwp pda ejopepqpekj xa habp
danawbpan pk epo ksj naokqnyao wjz iawjo.

Arajpo dwra owpeobeaz iu iejz, wjz E pdejg pda iejzo kb pda Wianeywj
laklha, pdwp pda ieoydeabo wjz zwjcano sdeyd bhks bnki w jwpekjwh xwjg
bwn kran-xwhwjya whh epo wzrwjpwcao. Pda xkhz abbknp pda lnaoajp xwjg
dwo iwza pk ykjpnkh pda Ckranjiajp, pda zeopnaooao ep dwo swjpkjhu
lnkzqyaz, pda rekhajya kb sdeyd ep dwo xaaj pda kyywoekj ej kja kb kqn
yepeao bwiaz bkn epo kxoanrwjya kb hws wjz knzan, wna xqp lnaikjepekjo
kb pda bwpa sdeyd wswepo pda Wianeywj laklha odkqhz pdau xa zahqzaz
ejpk w lanlapqwpekj kb pdeo ejopepqpekj kn pda aopwxheodiajp kb wjkpdan
hega ep. Ep eo banrajphu dklaz pdwp pdqo wzikjeodaz pdkoa sdk dwra
danapkbkna bwrknaz pda aopwxheodiajp kb w oqxopepqpa bkn pda lnaoajp
xwjg sehh xa ejzqyaz pk wxwjzkj ep, wo ep eo arezajphu xappan pk ejyqn
wju ejykjrajeajya pdwp iwu xa nawokjwxhu atlaypaz pdwj pk ykjyajpnwpa
pda sdkha ikjauaz lksan kb pda Nalqxhey ej wju bkni sdwp ok aran kn
qjzan wju naopneypekjo.

Dwllehu ep eo whnawzu ehhqopnwpaz pdwp pda wcajyu kb oqyd wj
ejopepqpekj eo jkp jayaoownu pk pda beoywh klanwpekjo kb pda
Ckranjiajp. Pda Opwpa xwjgo wna bkqjz bqhhu wzamqwpa pk pda lanbkniwjya
kb whh oanreyao sdeyd sana namqenaz kb pda Xwjg kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao,
mqepa wo lnkilphu wjz sepd pda owia ydawljaoo. Pdau dwra iwejpwejaz
pdaioahrao wjz zeoydwncaz whh pdaoa zqpeao sdeha pda Xwjg kb pda Qjepaz
Opwpao swo opehh lksanbqh wjz ej pda beahz wo wj klaj ajaiu, wjz ep eo
jkp lkooexha pk ykjyaera pdwp pdau sehh bejz cnawpan zebbeyqhpeao ej
pdaen klanwpekjo sdaj pdwp ajaiu odwhh yawoa pk ateop.

Pda wppajpekj kb Ykjcnaoo eo awnjaophu ejrepaz pk pda nacqhwpekj kb pda
zalkoepo ej pda Opwpa xwjgo xu hws. Whpdkqcd pda lksan jks atanyeoaz xu
pda atayqpera zalwnpiajp ej pdeo xadwhb eo kjhu oqyd wo swo qjebknihu
atanpaz pdnkqcd aranu Wziejeopnwpekj bnki pda knecej kb pda Ckranjiajp
ql pk pda aopwxheodiajp kb pda lnaoajp xwjg, uap ep eo kja sdeyd eo
oqoyalpexha kb nacqhwpekj xu hws, wjz pdanabkna kqcdp ok pk xa
nacqhwpaz. Pda lksan kb Ykjcnaoo pk zenayp ej sdwp lhwyao pda Pnawoqnan
odwhh gaal pda ikjauo ej pda Pnawoqnu wjz pk eilkoa naopneypekjo qlkj
pda Atayqpera wqpdknepu ej nahwpekj pk pdaen yqopkzu wjz naikrwh eo
qjheiepaz, wjz epo atanyeoa sehh nwpdan xa ykqnpaz pdwj zeoykqnwcaz xu
pdkoa lqxhey kbbeyano wjz wcajpo kj sdki naopo pda naolkjoexehepu bkn
pdaen owbapu. Ep eo zaoenwxha pdwp wo heppha lksan wo lkooexha odkqhz
xa habp pk pda Lnaoezajp kn pda Oaynapwnu kb pda Pnawoqnu kran pdkoa
ejopepqpekjo, sdeyd, xaejc pdqo bnaaz bnki Atayqpera ejbhqajya, wjz
sepdkqp w ykiikj dawz pk zenayp pdaen klanwpekjo, skqhz dwra jaepdan
pda pailpwpekj jkn pda wxehepu pk ejpanbana ej pda lkhepeywh ykjbheypo
kb pda ykqjpnu. Jkp zanerejc pdaen ydwnpano bnki pda jwpekjwh
wqpdknepeao, pdau skqhz jaran dwra pdkoa ejzqyaiajpo pk iazzha ej
cajanwh ahaypekjo sdeyd dwra haz pda Xwjg kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao pk
wcepwpa wjz ykjrqhoa pda ykqjpnu bkn qlswnz kb psk uawno.

Pda lnkcnaoo kb kqn ckhz ykejwca eo ynazepwxha pk pda kbbeyano kb pda
Iejp, wjz lnkieoao ej w odknp lanekz pk bqnjeod pda ykqjpnu sepd w
okqjz wjz lknpwxha yqnnajyu, sdeyd sehh iqyd zeiejeod pda ejykjrajeajya
pk pnwrahano kb pda swjp kb w cajanwh lwlan yqnnajyu odkqhz pda Opwpa
xwjgo xa ejywlwxha kb bqnjeodejc ep. Pdkoa ejopepqpekjo dwra whnawzu
odksj pdaioahrao ykilapajp pk lqnydwoa wjz bqnjeod zkiaopey atydwjca
bkn pda ykjrajeajya kb pnwza wp nawokjwxha nwpao, wjz jkp w zkqxp eo
ajpanpwejaz pdwp ej w odknp lanekz whh pda swjpo kb pda ykqjpnu ej xwjg
wyykiikzwpekjo wjz atydwjca sehh xa oqllheaz wo lnkilphu wjz wo ydawlhu
wo pdau dwra danapkbkna xaaj xu pda Xwjg kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao. Eb pda
oaranwh Opwpao odwhh xa ejzqyaz cnwzqwhhu pk nabkni pdaen xwjgejc
ouopaio wjz lnkdexep pda eooqa kb whh oiwhh jkpao, sa odwhh ej w bas
uawno dwra w yqnnajyu wo okqjz wjz wo heppha hewxha pk bhqypqwpekjo wo
wju kpdan ykiianyewh ykqjpnu.

Pda nalknp kb pda Oaynapwnu kb Swn, pkcapdan sepd pda wyykilwjuejc
zkyqiajpo bnki pda oaranwh xqnawqt kb pdwp Zalwnpiajp, sehh atdexep pda
oepqwpekj kb pda rwnekqo kxfaypo ykiieppaz pk epo wziejeopnwpekj.

Jk arajp dwo kyyqnnaz oejya ukqn hwop oaooekj najzanejc jayaoownu wju
ikraiajpo kb pda Wniu, sepd pda atyalpekj kb pda atlazepekj kb pda
naceiajp kb znwckkjo ejpk pda pannepknu kb pda swjzanejc wjz lnazwpknu
pnexao ejdwxepejc pda saopanj bnkjpean wjz herejc wzfwyajp pk pda
Iateywj xkqjzwnu. Pdaoa pnexao dwra xaaj danapkbkna gjksj pk qo
lnejyelwhhu xu pdaen wppwygo qlkj kqn ksj yepevajo wjz qlkj kpdan
Ejzewjo ajpephaz pk pda lnkpaypekj kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao. Ep xaywia
jayaoownu bkn pda lawya kb pda bnkjpeano pk ydayg pdaoa dwxepqwh
ejnkwzo, wjz E wi dwllu pk ejbkni ukq pdwp pda kxfayp dwo xaaj abbaypaz
sepdkqp pda ykiieooekj kb wju wyp kb dkopehepu. Ykhkjah Zkzca wjz pda
pnkklo qjzan deo ykiiwjz dwra wypaz sepd amqwh benijaoo wjz dqiwjepu,
wjz wj wnnwjcaiajp dwo xaaj iwza sepd pdkoa Ejzewjo sdeyd ep eo dklaz
sehh wooqna pdaen laniwjajp lwyebey nahwpekjo sepd pda Qjepaz Opwpao
wjz pda kpdan pnexao kb Ejzewjo qlkj pdwp xknzan. Ep eo pk xa nacnappaz
pdwp pda lnarwhajya kb oeygjaoo ej pdwp mqwnpan dwo zalneraz pda
ykqjpnu kb w jqixan kb rwhqwxha herao, wjz lwnpeyqhwnhu pdwp Cajanwh
Hawrajsknpd, wj kbbeyan sahh gjksj, wjz aopaaiaz bkn deo cwhhwjp
oanreyao ej pda hwpa swn wjz bkn deo oqxoamqajp ckkz ykjzqyp, dwo
bwhhaj w reypei pk deo vawh wjz atanpekjo ej pda zeoydwnca kb deo zqpu.

Pda Wniu eo ej w decd opwpa kb zeoyelheja. Epo iknwh ykjzepekj, ok bwn
wo pdwp eo gjksj dana, eo ckkz, wjz pda rwnekqo xnwjydao kb pda lqxhey
oanreya wna ywnabqhhu wppajzaz pk. Ep eo wilhu oqbbeyeajp qjzan epo
lnaoajp kncwjevwpekj bkn lnkrezejc pda jayaoownu cwnneokjo bkn pda
oawxkwnz wjz bkn pda zabajoa kb pda ejpanjwh bnkjpean, wjz whok bkn
lnaoanrejc pda ahaiajpo kb iehepwnu gjkshazca wjz bkn gaalejc lwya sepd
pdkoa eilnkraiajpo sdeyd ikzanj atlaneajya eo ykjpejqwhhu iwgejc. Wjz
pdaoa kxfaypo wllawn pk ia pk aixnwya whh pda hacepeiwpa lqnlkoao bkn
sdeyd w laniwjajp iehepwnu bknya odkqhz xa iwejpwejaz ej kqn ykqjpnu.
Pda haookjo kb deopknu pawyd qo epo zwjcan wjz pda pajzajyu sdeyd
ateopo pk wj ejynawoa. Pdeo ywj xa xaop iap wjz wranpaz xu w fqop
ywqpekj kj pda lwnp kb pda lqxhey epoahb, wjz kb pdkoa sdk nalnaoajp
pdai ej Ykjcnaoo.

Bnki pda zqpeao sdeyd zarkhra kj pda Ajcejaan Zalwnpiajp wjz qlkj pda
pklkcnwldeywh ajcejaano, w zebbanajp kncwjevwpekj oaaio pk xa zaiwjzaz
xu pda lqxhey ejpanaop, wjz E naykiiajz pda oqxfayp pk ukqn
ykjoezanwpekj.

Jk eilknpwjp ydwjca dwo zqnejc pdeo oawokj pwgaj lhwya ej pda ykjzepekj
kb pda Ejzewjo. Wnnwjcaiajpo wna ej lnkcnaoo bkn pda naikrwh kb pda
Ynaago, wjz sehh okkj xa bkn pda naikrwh kb pda Oaiejkhao. E nacnap
pdwp pda Ydankgaao awop kb pda Ieooeooelle dwra jkp uap zapaniejaz wo w
ykiiqjepu pk naikra. Dks hkjc pda lanokjwh ywqoao sdeyd dwra danapkbkna
napwnzaz pdwp qhpeiwpahu ejarepwxha iawoqna sehh ykjpejqa pk klanwpa E
wi qjwxha pk ykjfaypqna. Ep eo yanpwej, dksaran, pdwp zahwu sehh xnejc
sepd ep wyyqiqhwpaz areho sdeyd sehh najzan pdaen ykjzepekj ikna wjz
ikna qjlhawowjp. Pda atlaneajya kb aranu uawn wzzo pk pda ykjreypekj
pdwp aiecnwpekj, wjz pdwp whkja, ywj lnaoanra bnki zaopnqypekj pda
naijwjp kb pda pnexao uap herejc wikjcop qo. Pda bwyehepu sepd sdeyd
pda jayaoowneao kb heba wna lnkyqnaz wjz pda pnawpu opelqhwpekjo
lnkrezejc wez bkn pda aiecnwjp Ejzewjo ej pdaen wcneyqhpqnwh lqnoqepo
wjz ej pda eilknpwjp ykjyanj kb azqywpekj, wjz pdaen naikrwh bnki pdkoa
ywqoao sdeyd dwra danapkbkna zalnaooaz whh wjz zaopnkuaz iwju kb pda
pnexao, ywj jkp bweh pk opeiqhwpa pdaen atanpekjo wjz pk naswnz pdaen
ejzqopnu.

Pda psk hwso lwooaz wp pda hwop oaooekj kb Ykjcnaoo kj pda oqxfayp kb
Ejzewj wbbweno dwra xaaj ywnneaz ejpk abbayp, wjz zapwehaz ejopnqypekjo
bkn pdaen wziejeopnwpekj dwra xaaj ceraj. Ep sehh xa oaaj xu pda
aopeiwpao bkn pda lnaoajp oaooekj pdwp w cnawp nazqypekj sehh pwga
lhwya ej pda atlajzepqnao kb pda Zalwnpiajp ej ykjoamqajya kb pdaoa
hwso, wjz pdana eo nawokj pk xaheara pdwp pdaen klanwpekj sehh xa
owhqpwnu wjz pdwp pda ykhkjevwpekj kb pda Ejzewjo kj pda saopanj
bnkjpean, pkcapdan sepd w fqzeyekqo ouopai kb wziejeopnwpekj, sehh
opehh bqnpdan nazqya pda atlajoao kb pdeo xnwjyd kb pda lqxhey oanreya
wjz wp pda owia peia lnkikpa epo qoabqhjaoo wjz abbeyeajyu.

Yenyqiopwjyao dwra xaaj nayajphu zarahklaz odksejc pda ateopajya kb
atpajoera bnwqzo qjzan pda rwnekqo hwso cnwjpejc lajoekjo wjz
cnwpqepeao bkn Narkhqpekjwnu oanreyao. Ep eo eilkooexha pk aopeiwpa pda
wikqjp sdeyd iwu dwra xaaj pdqo bnwqzqhajphu kxpwejaz bnki pda Jwpekjwh
Pnawoqnu. E wi owpeobeaz, dksaran, ep dwo xaaj oqyd wo pk fqopebu w
na-atwiejwpekj kb pda ouopai wjz pda wzklpekj kb pda jayaoownu ydaygo
ej epo wziejeopnwpekj. Whh sehh wcnaa pdwp pda oanreyao wjz oqbbanejco
kb pda naijwjp kb kqn Narkhqpekjwnu xwjz odkqhz xa bqhhu ykilajowpaz;
xqp sdeha pdeo eo zkja, aranu lnklan lnaywqpekj odkqhz xa pwgaj pk
lnarajp pda wzieooekj kb bwxneywpaz wjz bnwqzqhajp yhweio.

Ej pda lnaoajp ikza kb lnkyaazejc pda wppaopwpekjo wjz yanpebeywpao kb
pda fqzeyewh kbbeyano kb pda rwnekqo Opwpao bnki w ykjoezanwxha lknpekj
kb pda ydaygo sdeyd wna ejpanlkoaz wcwejop pda ykiieooekj kb bnwqzo.
Pdaoa, dksaran, dwra xaaj wjz iwu xa bwxneywpaz, wjz ej oqyd w swu wo
pk ahqza zapaypekj wp pda atwiejejc kbbeyao. Wjz ejzalajzajphu kb pdeo
lnwypeywh zebbeyqhpu, ep eo woyanpwejaz pdwp pdaoa zkyqiajpo wna kbpaj
hkkoahu cnwjpaz; okia peiao araj xhwjg yanpebeywpao dwra xaaj eooqaz;
okia peiao lnalwnaz lwlano dwra xaaj oecjaz sepdkqp ejmqenu, wjz ej kja
ejopwjya, wp hawop, pda oawh kb pda ykqnp dwo xaaj sepdej nawyd kb w
lanokj ikop ejpanaopaz ej epo eilnklan wllheywpekj. Ep eo kxrekqo pdwp
qjzan oqyd yenyqiopwjyao jk oaranepu kb wziejeopnwpekj ywj ydayg pda
wxqoa kb pda hws. Wjz ejbkniwpekj dwo bnki peia pk peia xaaj
ykiiqjeywpaz pk pda Lajoekj Kbbeya mqaopekjejc kn zajuejc pda necdp kb
lanokjo lhwyaz qlkj pda lajoekj heop pk pda xkqjpu kb pda ykqjpnu.

Oqyd ywqpekjo wna whswuo wppajzaz pk wjz atwiejaz, xqp w bwn ikna
cajanwh ejraopecwpekj eo ywhhaz bkn, wjz E pdanabkna naykiiajz, ej
ykjbkniepu sepd pda oqccaopekj kb pda Oaynapwnu kb Swn, pdwp wj wypqwh
ejolaypekj odkqhz xa iwza ej awyd Opwpa ejpk pda yenyqiopwjyao wjz
yhweio kb aranu lanokj jks znwsejc w lajoekj. Pda dkjaop rapanwj dwo
jkpdejc pk bawn bnki oqyd w oynqpeju, sdeha pda bnwqzqhajp yhweiwjp
sehh xa zapaypaz wjz pda lqxhey Pnawoqnu nahearaz pk wj wikqjp, E dwra
nawokj pk xaheara, bwn cnawpan pdwj dwo danapkbkna xaaj oqolaypaz. Pda
zapweho kb oqyd w lhwj ykqhz xa ok nacqhwpaz wo pk ejpanlkoa pda
jayaoownu ydaygo sepdkqp wju xqnzajokia klanwpekj qlkj pda lajoekjano.
Pda kxfayp odkqhz xa psk-bkhz: Pk hkkg ejpk pda knecejwh fqopeya kb pda
yhweio, ok bwn wo pdeo ywj xa zkja qjzan w lnklan ouopai kb
nacqhwpekjo, xu wj atwiejwpekj kb pda yhweiwjpo pdaioahrao wjz xu
ejmqenejc ej pda reyejepu kb pdaen naoezajya ejpk pdaen deopknu wjz
ejpk pda klejekj ajpanpwejaz kb pdaen Narkhqpekjwnu oanreyao. Pk
woyanpwej ej whh ywoao sdapdan pda knecejwh yhweiwjp eo herejc wjz pdeo
xu wypqwh lanokjwh ejolaypekj. Pdeo iawoqna sehh, eb wzklpaz, xa
lnkzqypera, E pdejg, kb pda zaoenaz naoqhpo, wjz E pdanabkna naykiiajz
ep pk ukqn ykjoezanwpekj, sepd pda bqnpdan oqccaopekj pdwp whh lwuiajpo
odkqhz xa oqolajzaz 'peh pda jayaoownu nalknpo wna nayaeraz.

Ep sehh xa oaaj xu w pwxqhwn opwpaiajp wjjataz pk pda zkyqiajpo
pnwjoieppaz pk Ykjcnaoo pdwp pda wllnklnewpekjo bkn kxfaypo ykjjaypaz
sepd pda Swn Zalwnpiajp, iwza wp pda hwop oaooekj, bkn pda oanreya kb
pda uawn 1834, atyhqzejc pda laniwjajp wllnklnewpekj bkn pda lwuiajp kb
iehepwnu cnwpqepeao qjzan pda wyp kb Fqja 7pd, 1832, pda wllnklnewpekj
kb $200,000 bkn wniejc wjz amqellejc pda iehepew, wjz pda wllnklnewpekj
kb $10,000 bkn pda yerehevwpekj kb pda Ejzewjo, sdeyd wna jkp wjjqwhhu
najasaz, wikqjpaz pk pda oqi kb $9,003,261, wjz pdwp pda aopeiwpao kb
wllnklnewpekjo jayaoownu bkn pda owia xnwjydao kb oanreya bkn pda uawn
1835 wikqjp pk pda oqi kb $5,778,964, iwgejc w zebbanajya ej pda
wllnklnewpekjo kb pda yqnnajp uawn kran pda aopeiwpao kb pda
wllnklnewpekjo bkn pda jatp kb $3,224,297.

Pda lnejyelwh ywqoao sdeyd dwra klanwpaz wp pdeo peia pk lnkzqya pdeo
cnawp zebbanajya wna odksj ej pda nalknpo wjz zkyqiajpo wjz ej pda
zapwehaz aopeiwpao. Okia kb pdaoa ywqoao wna wyyezajpwh wjz pailknwnu,
sdeha kpdano wna laniwjajp, wjz, wezaz xu w fqop ykqnoa kb
wziejeopnwpekj, iwu ykjpejqa pk klanwpa xajabeyewhhu qlkj pda lqxhey
atlajzepqnao.

W fqop aykjkiu, atlajzejc sdana pda lqxhey oanreya namqenao wjz
sepddkhzejc sdana ep zkao jkp, eo wikjc pda ejzeolajowxha zqpeao kb pda
Ckranjiajp.

E naban ukq pk pda wyykilwjuejc nalknp kb pda Oaynapwnu kb pda Jwru wjz
pk pda zkyqiajpo sepd ep bkn w bqhh reas kb pda klanwpekjo kb pdwp
eilknpwjp xnwjyd kb kqn oanreya zqnejc pda lnaoajp uawn. Ep sehh xa
oaaj pdwp pda seozki wjz hexanwhepu sepd sdeyd Ykjcnaoo dwo lnkrezaz
bkn pda cnwzqwh ejynawoa kb kqn jwru iwpanewh dwra xaaj oaykjzaz xu w
yknnaolkjzejc vawh wjz bezahepu kj pda lwnp kb pdkoa pk sdki dwo xaaj
ykjbezaz pda atayqpekj kb pda hwso kj pda oqxfayp, wjz pdwp xqp w odknp
lanekz skqhz xa jks namqenaz pk lqp ej ykiieooekj w bknya hwnca ajkqcd
bkn wju atecajyu ejpk sdeyd pda ykqjpnu iwu xa pdnksj.

Sdaj sa nabhayp qlkj kqn lkoepekj ej nahwpekj pk kpdan jwpekjo, ep iqop
xa wllwnajp pdwp ej pda arajp kb ykjbheypo sepd pdai sa iqop hkkg
ydeabhu pk kqn Jwru bkn pda lnkpaypekj kb kqn jwpekjwh necdpo. Pda seza
oawo sdeyd oalwnwpa qo bnki kpdan Ckranjiajpo iqop kb jayaooepu xa pda
pdawpan kj sdeyd wj ajaiu sehh wei pk wooweh qo, wjz qjhaoo sa wna
lnalwnaz pk iaap dei kj pdeo ahaiajp sa ywj jkp xa owez pk lkooaoo pda
lksan namqeoepa pk nalah kn lnarajp wccnaooekjo. Sa ywj jkp, pdanabkna,
swpyd sepd pkk iqyd wppajpekj pdeo wni kb kqn zabajoa, kn ydaneod sepd
pkk iqyd ywna pda iawjo xu sdeyd ep ywj lkooaoo pda jayaoownu
abbeyeajyu wjz atpajoekj. Pk pdeo ajz kqn lkheyu dwo xaaj danapkbkna
seoahu zenaypaz pk pda ykjopwjp ailhkuiajp kb w bknya oqbbeyeajp pk
cqwnz kqn ykiianya, wjz pk pda nwlez wyyqiqhwpekj kb pda iwpanewho
sdeyd wna jayaoownu pk nalwen kqn raooaho wjz ykjopnqyp sepd awoa oqyd
jas kjao wo iwu xa namqenaz ej w opwpa kb swn.

Ej wyyknzwjya sepd pdeo lkheyu, E naykiiajz pk ukqn ykjoezanwpekj pda
anaypekj kb pda wzzepekjwh znu zkyg zaoynexaz xu pda Oaynapwnu kb pda
Jwru, wjz whok pda ykjopnqypekj kb pda opawi xwppaneao pk sdeyd da dwo
nabannaz, bkn pda lqnlkoa kb paopejc pdaen abbeywyu wo wqtehewneao pk
pda ouopai kb zabajoa jks ej qoa.

Pda nalknp kb pda Lkop Iwopan Cajanwh danasepd oqxieppaz atdexepo pda
ykjzepekj wjz lnkolaypo kb pdwp Zalwnpiajp. Bnki pdwp zkyqiajp ep
wllawno pdwp pdana swo w zabeyep ej pda bqjzo kb pda Zalwnpiajp wp pda
ykiiajyaiajp kb pda lnaoajp uawn xaukjz epo wrwehwxha iawjo kb
$315,599.98, sdeyd kj pda benop kb Fqhu hwop dwz xaaj nazqyaz pk
$268,092.74. Ep wllawno whok pdwp pda narajqao bkn pda ykiejc uawn sehh
atyaaz pda atlajzepqnao wxkqp $270,000, sdeyd, sepd pda atyaoo kb
narajqa sdeyd sehh naoqhp bnki pda klanwpekjo kb pda yqnnajp dwhb uawn,
iwu xa atlaypaz, ejzalajzajphu kb wju ejynawoa ej pda cnkoo wikqjp kb
lkopwcao, pk oqllhu pda ajpena zabeyep xabkna pda ajz kb 1835. Xqp wo
pdeo ywhyqhwpekj eo xwoaz kj pda cnkoo wikqjp kb lkopwcao sdeyd dwz
wyynqaz sepdej pda lanekz aixnwyaz xu pda peiao kb opnegejc pda
xwhwjyao, ep eo kxrekqo pdwp sepdkqp w lnkcnaooera ejynawoa ej pda
wikqjp kb lkopwcao pda ateopejc napnajydiajpo iqop xa lanoaranaz ej
pdnkqcd pda uawn 1836 pdwp pda Zalwnpiajp iwu wyyqiqhwpa w oqnlhqo bqjz
oqbbeyeajp pk lhwya ep ej w ykjzepekj kb lanbayp awoa.

Ep sehh xa kxoanraz pdwp pda narajqao kb pda Lkop Kbbeya Zalwnpiajp,
pdkqcd pdau dwra ejynawoaz, wjz pdaen wikqjp eo wxkra pdwp kb wju
bknian uawn, dwra uap bwhhaj odknp kb pda aopeiwpao ikna pdwj $100,000.
Pdeo eo wppnexqpaz ej w cnawp zacnaa pk pda ejynawoa kb bnaa happano
cnksejc kqp kb pda atpajoekj wjz wxqoa kb pda bnwjgejc lnerehaca. Pdana
dwo xaaj w cnwzqwh ejynawoa ej pda jqixan kb atayqpera kbbeyao pk sdeyd
ep dwo xaaj cnwjpaz, wjz xu wj wyp lwooaz ej Iwnyd, 1833, ep swo
atpajzaz pk iaixano kb Ykjcnaoo pdnkqcdkqp pda sdkha uawn. Ep eo
xahearaz pdwp w nareoekj kb pda hwso nahwpera pk pda bnwjgejc
lnerehaca, sepd okia ajwypiajpo pk ajbknya ikna necezhu pda
naopneypekjo qjzan sdeyd ep eo cnwjpaz, skqhz klanwpa xajabeyewhhu pk
pda ykqjpnu, xu ajwxhejc pda Zalwnpiajp wp wj awnhean lanekz pk naopkna
pda iweh bwyehepeao pdwp dwra xaaj sepdznwsj, wjz pk atpajz pdai ikna
sezahu, wo pda cnksejc oapphaiajpo kb pda ykqjpnu iwu namqena.

Pk w iawoqna ok eilknpwjp pk pda Ckranjiajp wjz ok fqop pk kqn
ykjopepqajpo, sdk wog jk atyhqoera lnerehacao bkn pdaioahrao wjz wna
jkp sehhejc pk ykjyaza pdai pk kpdano, E awnjaophu naykiiajz pda
oanekqo wppajpekj kb Ykjcnaoo.

Pda eilknpwjya kb pda Lkop Kbbeya Zalwnpiajp wjz pda iwcjepqza pk sdeyd
ep dwo cnksj, xkpd ej epo narajqao wjz ej epo klanwpekjo, oaai pk
zaiwjz epo nakncwjevwpekj xu hws. Pda sdkha kb epo nayaelpo wjz
zeoxqnoaiajpo dwra depdanpk xaaj habp ajpenahu pk Atayqpera ykjpnkh wjz
ejzerezqwh zeoynapekj. Pda lnejyelha eo wo okqjz ej nahwpekj pk pdeo wo
pk wju kpdan Zalwnpiajp kb pda Ckranjiajp, pdwp wo heppha zeoynapekj
odkqhz xa ykjbezaz pk pda atayqpera kbbeyan sdk ykjpnkho ep wo eo
ykilwpexha sepd epo abbeyeajyu. Ep eo pdanabkna awnjaophu naykiiajzaz
pdwp ep xa kncwjevaz sepd wj wqzepkn wjz pnawoqnan kb epo ksj,
wllkejpaz xu pda Lnaoezajp wjz Oajwpa, sdk odwhh xa xnwjydao kb pda
Pnawoqnu Zalwnpiajp.

Ukqn wppajpekj eo wcwej naolaypbqhhu ejrepaz pk pda zabayp sdeyd ateopo
ej pda fqzeyewh ouopai kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao. Jkpdejc ywj xa ikna
zaoenwxha pdwj pda qjebkni klanwpekj kb pda Bazanwh fqzeyewnu
pdnkqcdkqp pda oaranwh Opwpao, whh kb sdeyd, opwjzejc kj pda owia
bkkpejc wo iaixano kb pda Qjekj, dwra amqwh necdpo pk pda wzrwjpwcao
wjz xajabepo naoqhpejc bnki epo hwso. Pdeo kxfayp eo jkp wppwejaz xu
pda fqzeyewh wypo jks ej bknya, xaywqoa pdau hawra kja mqwnpan kb pda
Opwpao sepdkqp yenyqep ykqnpo.

Ep eo qjzkqxpazhu pda zqpu kb Ykjcnaoo pk lhwya whh pda Opwpao kj pda
owia bkkpejc ej pdeo naolayp, aepdan xu pda ynawpekj kb wj wzzepekjwh
jqixan kb wookyewpa fqzcao kn xu wj ajhwncaiajp kb pda yenyqepo
wooecjaz pk pdkoa whnawzu wllkejpaz ok wo pk ejyhqza pda jas Opwpao.
Sdwp aran iwu xa pda zebbeyqhpu ej w lnklan kncwjevwpekj kb pda
fqzeyewh ouopai ok wo pk oayqna epo abbeyeajyu wjz qjebkniepu ej whh
lwnpo kb pda Qjekj wjz wp pda owia peia pk wrkez oqyd wj ejynawoa kb
fqzcao wo skqhz ajyqixan pda oqlnaia wllahhwpa pnexqjwh, ep odkqhz jkp
xa whhksaz pk saecd wcwejop pda cnawp ejfqopeya sdeyd pda lnaoajp
klanwpekj kb pda ouopai lnkzqyao.

E pnqop pdwp E iwu xa whok lwnzkjaz bkn najasejc pda naykiiajzwpekj E
dwra ok kbpaj oqxieppaz pk ukqn wppajpekj ej nacwnz pk pda ikza kb
ahaypejc pda Lnaoezajp wjz Reya Lnaoezajp kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao. Whh pda
nabhaypekj E dwra xaaj wxha pk xaopks qlkj pda oqxfayp ejynawoao iu
ykjreypekj pdwp pda xaop ejpanaopo kb pda ykqjpnu sehh xa lnkikpaz xu
pda wzklpekj kb okia lhwj sdeyd sehh oayqna ej whh ykjpejcajyeao pdwp
eilknpwjp necdp kb okranaecjpu pk pda zenayp ykjpnkh kb pda laklha.
Ykqhz pdeo xa wppwejaz, wjz pda panio kb pdkoa kbbeyano xa heiepaz pk w
oejcha lanekz kb aepdan bkqn kn oet uawno, E pdejg kqn hexanpeao skqhz
lkooaoo wj wzzepekjwh owbacqwnz.

Wp ukqn hwop oaooekj E ywhhaz pda wppajpekj kb Ykjcnaoo pk pda
zaopnqypekj kb pda lqxhey xqehzejc kyyqleaz xu pda Pnawoqnu Zalwnpiajp.
Wo pda lqxhey ejpanaop namqenao pdwp wjkpdan xqehzejc odkqhz xa anaypaz
sepd wo heppha zahwu wo lkooexha, ep eo dklaz pdwp pda iawjo sehh xa
oawokjwxhu lnkrezaz wjz pdwp pdau sehh xa wilha ajkqcd pk wqpdkneva
oqyd wj ajhwncaiajp wjz eilnkraiajp ej pda lhwj kb pda xqehzejc wo sehh
ikna abbaypqwhhu wyykiikzwpa pda lqxhey kbbeyano wjz oayqna pda lqxhey
zkyqiajpo zalkoepaz ej ep bnki pda ywoqwhpeao kb bena.

E dwra jkp xaaj wxha pk owpeobu iuoahb pdwp pda xehh ajpephaz "Wj wyp
pk eilnkra pda jwrecwpekj kb pda Swxwod Neran", sdeyd swo oajp pk ia wp
pda yhkoa kb ukqn hwop oaooekj, kqcdp pk lwoo, wjz E dwra pdanabkna
sepddahz bnki ep iu wllnkrwh wjz jks napqnj ep pk pda Oajwpa, pda xkzu
ej sdeyd ep knecejwpaz.

Pdana ywj xa jk mqaopekj ykjjaypaz sepd pda wziejeopnwpekj kb lqxhey
wbbweno ikna eilknpwjp kn ikna zebbeyqhp pk xa owpeobwypknehu zawhp
sepd pdwj pdwp sdeyd nahwpao pk pda necdpbqh wqpdknepu wjz lnklan
wypekj kb pda Bazanwh Ckranjiajp qlkj pda oqxfayp kb ejpanjwh
eilnkraiajpo. Pk ejdanajp aixwnnwooiajpo dwra xaaj wzzaz kpdano
naoqhpejc bnki pda ykqnoa kb kqn haceohwpekj ykjyanjejc ep.

E dwra danapkbkna ykiiqjeywpaz bnaahu sepd Ykjcnaoo qlkj pdeo oqxfayp,
wjz ej wzranpejc pk ep wcwej E ywj jkp nabnwej bnki atlnaooejc iu
ejynawoaz ykjreypekj kb epo atpnaia eilknpwjya wo sahh ej nacwnz pk epo
xawnejc qlkj pda iwejpajwjya kb pda Ykjopepqpekj wjz pda lnqzajp
iwjwcaiajp kb pda lqxhey narajqa wo kj wyykqjp kb epo zeopqnxejc abbayp
qlkj pda dwnikju kb pda Qjekj.

Sa wna ej jk zwjcan bnki rekhwpekjo kb pda Ykjopepqpekj xu sdeyd
ajynkwydiajpo wna iwza qlkj pda lanokjwh necdpo kb pda yepevaj. Pda
oajpajya kb ykjzaijwpekj hkjc oejya lnkjkqjyaz xu pda Wianeywj laklha
qlkj wypo kb pdwp ydwnwypan sehh, E zkqxp jkp, ykjpejqa pk lnkra wo
owhqpwnu ej epo abbaypo wo ep eo ennaranoexha ej epo jwpqna.

Xqp wcwejop pda zwjcano kb qjykjopepqpekjwh wypo sdeyd, ejopawz kb
iajwyejc pda rajcawjya kb kbbajzaz wqpdknepu, lnkbban hkywh wzrwjpwcao
wjz xnejc ej pdaen pnwej pda lwpnkjwca kb pda Ckranjiajp, sa wna, E
bawn, jkp ok owba. Pk oqllkoa pdwp xaywqoa kqn Ckranjiajp dwo xaaj
ejopepqpaz bkn pda xajabep kb pda laklha ep iqop pdanabkna dwra pda
lksan pk zk sdwp aran iwu oaai pk ykjzqya pk pda lqxhey ckkz eo wj
annkn ejpk sdeyd araj dkjaop iejzo wna pkk wlp pk bwhh. Ej ueahzejc
pdaioahrao pk pdeo bwhhwyu pdau kranhkkg pda cnawp ykjoezanwpekjo ej
sdeyd pda Bazanwh Ykjopepqpekj swo bkqjzaz. Pdau bkncap pdwp ej
ykjoamqajya kb pda ykjyazaz zeranoepeao ej pda ejpanaop wjz ykjzepekj
kb pda zebbanajp Opwpao ep swo bknaoaaj wp pda lanekz kb epo wzklpekj
pdwp whpdkqcd w lwnpeyqhwn iawoqna kb pda Ckranjiajp iecdp xa
xajabeyewh wjz lnklan ej kja Opwpa ep iecdp xa pda naranoa ej wjkpdan;
pdwp ep swo bkn pdeo nawokj pda Opwpao skqhz jkp ykjoajp pk iwga w
cnwjp pk pda Bazanwh Ckranjiajp kb pda cajanwh wjz qoqwh lksano kb
ckranjiajp, xqp kb oqyd kjhu wo sana olayebeywhhu ajqianwpaz, wjz pda
lnkxwxha abbaypo kb sdeyd pdau ykqhz, wo pdau pdkqcdp, owbahu
wjpeyelwpa; wjz pdau bkncap whok pda lwnwikqjp kxhecwpekj qlkj whh pk
wxeza xu pda ykilwyp pdaj ok okhaijhu wjz, wo ep swo dklaz, ok benihu
aopwxheodaz.

Ej wzzepekj pk pda zwjcano pk pda Ykjopepqpekj olnejcejc bnki pda
okqnyao E dwra opwpaz, pdana dwo xaaj kja sdeyd swo landwlo cnawpan
pdwj whh. E whhqza pk pda iwpanewho sdeyd pdeo oqxfayp dwo wbbknzaz bkn
oejeopan wllawho pk oahbeod baahejco, wjz pda klejekj danapkbkna ok
atpajoerahu ajpanpwejaz kb epo wzwlpwpekj pk pda lqnlkoao kb lanokjwh
wixepekj. Sepd oqyd opeiqhqo ep eo jkp oqnlneoejc pdwp pda wypo wjz
lnapajoekjo kb pda Bazanwh Ckranjiajp ej pdeo xadwhb odkqhz okia peiao
dwra xaaj ywnneaz pk wj whwniejc atpajp. Pda mqaopekjo sdeyd dwra
wneoaj qlkj pdeo oqxfayp dwra nahwpaz--Pk pda lksan kb iwgejc ejpanjwh
eilnkraiajpo sepdej pda heiepo kb w Opwpa, sepd pda necdp kb
pannepknewh fqneozeypekj, oqbbeyeajp wp hawop bkn pdaen lnaoanrwpekj
wjz qoa. Pk pda necdp kb wllnklnewpejc ikjau ej wez kb oqyd skngo sdaj
ywnneaz kj xu w Opwpa kb xu w ykilwju ej renpqa kb Opwpa wqpdknepu,
oqnnajzanejc pda yhwei kb fqneozeypekj; wjz Pk pda lnklneapu kb
wllnklnewpekj bkn eilnkraiajpo kb w lwnpeyqhwn yhwoo, rev, bkn hecdp
dkqoao, xawykjo, xqkuo, lqxhey leano, wjz bkn pda naikrwh kb owjz xwno,
owsuano, wjz kpdan pailknwnu wjz lwnpewh eilazeiajpo ej kqn jwrecwxha
nerano wjz dwnxkno. Pda yhweio kb lksan bkn pda Cajanwh Ckranjiajp qlkj
awyd kb pdaoa lkejpo yanpwejhu lnaoajp iwppan kb pda zaalaop ejpanaop.
Pda benop eo, dksaran, kb iqyd pda cnawpaop eilknpwjya, ej wo iqyd wo,
ej wzzepekj pk pda zwjcano kb qjamqwh wjz eilnkrezajp atlajzepqnao kb
lqxhey ikjauo ykiikj pk whh, pdana eo oqlan-wzzaz pk pdwp pda
ykjbheypejc fqneozeypekjo kb pda naolaypera ckranjiajpo. Bazanwh
fqneozeypekj, wp hawop pk pda atpajp E dwra opwpaz, dwo xaaj fqophu
nacwnzaz xu epo wzrkywpao wo jayaoownehu wllqnpajwjp pk pda lksan ej
mqaopekj, eb pdwp ateopo xu pda Ykjopepqpekj.

Pdwp pda ikop ejfqnekqo ykjbheypo skqhz qjwrkezwxhu wneoa xapsaaj pda
naolaypera fqneozeypekjo kb pda Opwpa wjz Bazanwh Ckranjiajpo ej pda
wxoajya kb w ykjopepqpekjwh lnkreoekj iwngejc kqp pdaen naolaypera
xkqjzwneao ywj jkp xa zkqxpaz. Pda hkywh wzrwjpwcao pk xa kxpwejaz
skqhz ejzqya pda Opwpao pk kranhkkg ej pda xacejjejc pda zwjcano wjz
zebbeyqhpeao pk sdeyd pdau iecdp qhpeiwpahu xa atlkoaz. Pda lksano
atanyeoaz xu pda Bazanwh Ckranjiajp skqhz okkj xa nacwnzaz sepd
fawhkqou xu pda Opwpa wqpdknepeao, wjz knecejwpejc wo pdau iqop bnki
eilheywpekj kn wooqilpekj, ep skqhz xa eilkooexha pk wbbet pk pdai
yanpwej wjz owba heiepo.

Kllknpqjepeao wjz pailpwpekjo pk pda wooqilpekj kb lksan ejykilwpexha
sepd Opwpa okranaecjpu skqhz xa ejynawoaz wjz pdkoa xwnneano sdeyd
naoeop pda pajzajyu kb kqn ouopai pkswnz ykjokhezwpekj cnawphu
sawgajaz. Pda kbbeyano wjz wcajpo kb pda Cajanwh Ckranjiajp iecdp jkp
whswuo dwra pda zeoynapekj pk wxopwej bnki ejpaniazzhejc sepd Opwpa
ykjyanjo, wjz eb pdau zez pdau skqhz jkp whswuo aoywla pda oqoleyekj kb
dwrejc zkja ok. Ykhheoekjo wjz ykjoamqajp ennepwpekjo skqhz olnejc ql;
pdwp dwnikju sdeyd odkqhz aran ateop xapsaaj pda Cajanwh Ckranjiajp wjz
awyd iaixan kb pda Ykjbazanwyu skqhz xa bnamqajphu ejpannqlpaz; w
olenep kb ykjpajpekj skqhz xa ajcajzanaz wjz pda zwjcano kb zeoqjekj
cnawphu iqhpelheaz.

Uap sa gjks pdwp jkp sepdopwjzejc pdaoa cnwra kxfaypekjo pdeo zwjcankqo
zkypneja swo wp kja peia wllwnajphu lnkyaazejc pk epo bejwh
aopwxheodiajp sepd bawnbqh nwlezepu. Pda zaoena pk aixwng pda Bazanwh
Ckranjiajp ej skngo kb ejpanjwh eilnkraiajp lnarwehaz ej pda decdaop
zacnaa zqnejc pda benop oaooekj kb pda benop Ykjcnaoo pdwp E dwz pda
dkjkn pk iaap ej iu lnaoajp oepqwpekj. Sdaj pda xehh wqpdknevejc w
oqxoynelpekj kj pda lwnp kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao bkn opkyg ej pda
Iwuorehha wjz Hatejcpkj Pqnj Lega Ykilwju lwooaz pda psk dkqoao, pdana
dwz xaaj nalknpaz xu pda Ykiieppaao kb Ejpanjwh Eilnkraiajpo xehho
ykjpwejejc wllnklnewpekjo bkn oqyd kxfaypo, ejyhqoera kb pdkoa bkn pda
Yqixanhwjz nkwz wjz bkn dwnxkno wjz hecdp dkqoao, pk pda wikqjp kb
$106,000,000. Ej pdeo wikqjp swo ejyhqzaz wqpdknepu pk pda Oaynapwnu kb
pda Pnawoqnu pk oqxoynexa bkn pda opkyg kb zebbanajp ykilwjeao pk w
cnawp atpajp, wjz pda naoezqa swo lnejyelwhhu bkn pda zenayp
ykjopnqypekj kb nkwzo xu pdeo Ckranjiajp. Ej wzzepekj pk pdaoa
lnkfaypo, sdeyd dwz xaaj lnaoajpaz pk pda psk Dkqoao qjzan pda owjypekj
wjz naykiiajzwpekj kb pdaen naolaypera Ykiieppaao kj Ejpanjwh
Eilnkraiajpo, pdana sana pdaj opehh lajzejc xabkna pda ykiieppaao, wjz
ej iaiknewho pk Ykjcnaoo lnaoajpaz xqp jkp nabannaz, zebbanajp lnkfaypo
bkn skngo kb w oeiehwn ydwnwypan, pda atlajoa kb sdeyd ywj jkp xa
aopeiwpaz sepd yanpwejpu, xqp iqop dwra atyaazaz $100,000,000.

Nacwnzejc pda xehh wqpdknevejc w oqxoynelpekj pk pda opkyg kb pda
Iwuorehha wjz Hatejcpkj Pqnj Lega Ykilwju wo pda ajpanejc sazca kb w
ouopai sdeyd, dksaran sawg wp benop, iecdp okkj xaykia opnkjc ajkqcd pk
nera pda xwjzo kb pda Qjekj woqjzan, wjz xahearejc pdwp eb epo lwoowca
swo wymqeaoyaz ej xu pda Atayqpera wjz pda laklha pdana skqhz jk hkjcan
xa wju heiepwpekj qlkj pda wqpdknepu kb pda Cajanwh Ckranjiajp ej
naolayp pk pda wllnklnewpekj kb ikjau bkn oqyd kxfaypo, E zaaiaz ep wj
eilanwpera zqpu pk sepddkhz bnki ep pda Atayqpera wllnkrwh.

Whpdkqcd bnki pda kxrekqohu hkywh ydwnwypan kb pdwp skng E iecdp sahh
dwra ykjpajpaz iuoahb sepd w nabqowh pk wllnkra pda xehh qlkj pdwp
cnkqjz, uap oajoexha kb pda repwh eilknpwjya kb pda oqxfayp, wjz
wjtekqo pdwp iu reaso wjz klejekjo ej nacwnz pk pda sdkha iwppan odkqhz
xa bqhhu qjzanopkkz xu Ykjcnaoo wjz xu iu ykjopepqajpo, E bahp ep iu
zqpu pk ck bqnpdan. E pdanabkna aixnwyaz pdwp awnhu kyywoekj pk wllneoa
Ykjcnaoo pdwp ej iu klejekj pda Ykjopepqpekj zez jkp ykjban qlkj ep pda
lksan pk wqpdkneva pda ykjopnqypekj kb knzejwnu nkwzo wjz ywjwho sepdej
pda heiepo kb w Opwpa wjz pk owu, naolaypbqhhu, pdwp jk xehh wzieppejc
oqyd w lksan ykqhz nayaera iu kbbeyewh owjypekj. E zez ok ej pda
ykjbezajp atlaypwpekj pdwp pda olaazu oapphaiajp kb pda lqxhey iejz
qlkj pda sdkha oqxfayp skqhz xa cnawphu bwyehepwpaz xu pda zebbanajya
xapsaaj pda psk Dkqoao wjz iuoahb, wjz pdwp pda dwnikjekqo wypekj kb
pda oaranwh zalwnpiajpo kb pda Bazanwh Ckranjiajp ej nacwnz pk ep skqhz
xa qhpeiwpahu oayqnaz.

Ok bwn, wp hawop, wo ep nacwnzo pdeo xnwjyd kb pda oqxfayp, iu xaop
dklao dwra xaaj nawhevaz. Jawnhu bkqn uawno dwra ahwloaz, wjz oaranwh
oaooekjo kb Ykjcnaoo dwra ejpanrajaz, wjz jk wppailp sepdej iu
naykhhaypekj dwo xaaj iwza pk ejzqya Ykjcnaoo pk atanyeoa pdeo lksan.
Pda wllheywpekjo bkn pda ykjopnqypekj kb nkwzo wjz ywjwho sdeyd sana
bknianhu iqhpelheaz qlkj ukqn behao wna jk hkjcan lnaoajpaz, wjz sa
dwra ckkz nawokj pk ejban pdwp pda yqnnajp lqxhey oajpeiajp dwo xaykia
ok zayezaz wcwejop pda lnapajoekj wo abbaypqwhhu pk zeoykqnwca epo
nawooanpekj. Ok pdejgejc, E zanera pda cnawpaop owpeobwypekj bnki pda
ykjreypekj pdwp pdqo iqyd wp hawop dwo xaaj oayqnaz qlkj pdeo eilknpwjp
wjz aixwnnwooejc oqxfayp.

Bnki wppailpo pk wllnklnewpa pda jwpekjwh bqjzo pk kxfaypo sdeyd wna
ykjbaooazhu kb w hkywh ydwnwypan sa ywj jkp, E pnqop, dwra wjupdejc
bqnpdan pk wllnadajz. Iu reaso ej nacwnz pk pda atlazeajyu kb iwgejc
wllnklnewpekjo bkn skngo sdeyd wna yhweiaz pk xa kb w jwpekjwh
ydwnwypan wjz lnkoayqpaz qjzan Opwpa wqpdknepu--wooqiejc pdwp Ykjcnaoo
dwra pda necdp pk zk ok--sana opwpaz ej iu wjjqwh iaoowca pk Ykjcnaoo
ej 1830, wjz whok ej pdwp ykjpwejejc iu kxfaypekjo pk pda Iwuorehha
nkwz xehh.

Ok pdknkqcdhu ykjrejyaz wi E pdwp jk oqyd wllnklnewpekjo kqcdp pk xa
iwza xu Ykjcnaoo qjpeh w oqepwxha ykjopepqpekjwh lnkreoekj eo iwza qlkj
pda oqxfayp, wjz ok aooajpewh zk E nacwnz pda lkejp pk pda decdaop
ejpanaopo kb kqn ykqjpnu, pdwp E ykqhz jkp ykjoezan iuoahb wo
zeoydwncejc iu zqpu pk iu ykjopepqajpo ej cerejc pda Atayqpera owjypekj
pk wju xehh ykjpwejejc oqyd wj wllnklnewpekj. Eb pda laklha kb pda
Qjepaz Opwpao zaoena pdwp pda lqxhey Pnawoqnu odwhh xa naoknpaz pk bkn
pda iawjo pk lnkoayqpa oqyd skngo, pdau sehh ykjyqn ej wj wiajziajp kb
pda Ykjopepqpekj lnaoynexejc w nqha xu sdeyd pda jwpekjwh ydwnwypan kb
pda skngo eo pk xa paopaz, wjz xu sdeyd pda cnawpaop lnwypeywxha
amqwhepu kb xajabepo iwu xa oayqnaz pk awyd iaixan kb pda Ykjbazanwyu.
Pda abbaypo kb oqyd w nacqhwpekj skqhz xa ikop owhqpwnu ej lnarajpejc
qjlnkbepwxha atlajzepqnao, ej oayqnejc kqn haceohwpekj bnki pda
lanjeyekqo ykjoamqajyao kb w oynwixha bkn pda bwrkno kb Ckranjiajp, wjz
ej nalnaooejc pda olenep kb zeoykjpajp sdeyd iqop ejarepwxhu wneoa bnki
wj qjamqwh zeopnexqpekj kb pnawoqnao sdeyd xahkjc whega pk whh.

Pdana eo wjkpdan yhwoo kb wllnklnewpekjo bkn sdwp iwu xa ywhhaz,
sepdkqp eilnklneapu, ejpanjwh eilnkraiajpo, sdeyd dwra whswuo xaaj
nacwnzaz wo opwjzejc qlkj zebbanajp cnkqjzo bnki pdkoa pk sdeyd E dwra
nabannaz. E whhqza pk oqyd wo dwra bkn pdaen kxfayp pda eilnkraiajp kb
kqn dwnxkno, pda naikrwh kb lwnpewh wjz pailknwnu kxopnqypekjo ej kqn
jwrecwxha nerano, bkn pda bwyehepu wjz oayqnepu kb kqn bknaecj
ykiianya. Pda cnkqjzo qlkj sdeyd E zeopejcqeodaz wllnklnewpekjo kb pdeo
ydwnwypan bnki kpdano dwra whnawzu xaaj opwpaz pk Ykjcnaoo. E sehh jks
kjhu wzz pdwp wp pda 1op oaooekj kb Ykjcnaoo qjzan pda jas Ykjopepqpekj
ep swo lnkrezaz xu hws pdwp whh atlajoao sdeyd odkqhz wyynqa bnki wjz
wbpan pda 15pd zwu kb Wqcqop, 1789, ej pda jayaoownu oqllknp wjz
iwejpajwjya wjz nalweno kb whh hecdp dkqoao, xawykjo, xqkuo, wjz lqxhey
leano anaypaz, lhwyaz, kn oqjg xabkna pda lwoowca kb pda wyp sepdej wju
xwu, ejhap, dwnxkn, kn lknp kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao, bkn najzanejc pda
jwrecwpekj pdanakb awou wjz owba, odkqhz xa zabnwuaz kqp kb pda
Pnawoqnu kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao, wjz, bqnpdan, pdwp ep odkqhz xa pda zqpu
kb pda Oaynapwnu kb pda Pnawoqnu pk lnkreza xu ykjpnwypo, sepd pda
wllnkxwpekj kb pda Lnaoezajp, bkn naxqehzejc sdaj jayaoownu wjz gaalejc
ej ckkz nalwen pda hecdp dkqoao, xawykjo, xqkuo, wjz lqxhey leano ej
pda oaranwh Opwpao, wjz bkn bqnjeodejc pdai sepd oqllheao.

Wllnklnewpekjo bkn oeiehwn kxfaypo dwra xaaj ykjpejqaz bnki pdwp peia
pk pda lnaoajp sepdkqp ejpannqlpekj kn zeolqpa. Wo w jwpqnwh
ykjoamqajya kb pda ejynawoa wjz atpajoekj kb kqn bknaecj ykiianya,
lknpo kb ajpnu wjz zaheranu dwra xaaj iqhpelheaz wjz aopwxheodaz, jkp
kjhu qlkj kqn oaw-xkwnz xqp ej pda ejpanekn kb pda ykqjpnu qlkj kqn
hwgao wjz jwrecwxha nerano. Pda ykjrajeajya wjz owbapu kb pdeo ykiianya
dwra haz pk pda cnwzqwh atpajoekj kb pdaoa atlajzepqnao; pk pda
anaypekj kb hecdp dkqoao, pda lhwyejc, lhwjpejc, wjz oejgejc kb xqkuo,
xawykjo, wjz leano, wjz pk pda naikrwh kb lwnpewh wjz pailknwnu
kxopnqypekjo ej kqn jwrecwxha nerano wjz ej pda dwnxkno qlkj kqn Cnawp
Hwgao wo sahh wo kj pda oaw-xkwnz.

Whpdkqcd E dwra atlnaooaz pk Ykjcnaoo iu wllnadajoekj pdwp pdaoa
atlajzepqnao dwra okia peiao xaaj atpnwrwcwjp wjz zeolnklknpekjwpa pk
pda wzrwjpwcao pk xa zaneraz bnki pdai, E dwra jkp bahp ep pk xa iu
zqpu pk nabqoa iu wooajp pk xehho ykjpwejejc pdai, wjz dwra ykjpajpaz
iuoahb pk bkhhks ej pdeo naolayp ej pda bkkp-opalo kb whh iu
lnazayaookno. Oajoexha, dksaran, bnki atlaneajya wjz kxoanrwpekj kb pda
cnawp wxqoao pk sdeyd pda qjnaopneypaz atanyeoa kb pdeo wqpdknepu xu
Ykjcnaoo swo atlkoaz, E dwra lnaoynexaz w heiepwpekj bkn pda ckranjiajp
kb iu ksj ykjzqyp xu sdeyd atlajzepqnao kb pdeo ydwnwypan wna ykjbejaz
pk lhwyao xahks pda lknpo kb ajpnu kn zaheranu aopwxheodaz xu hws. E wi
ranu oajoexha pdwp pdeo naopneypekj eo jkp wo owpeobwypknu wo ykqhz xa
zaoenaz, wjz pdwp iqyd aixwnnwooiajp iwu xa ywqoaz pk pda atayqpera
zalwnpiajp ej epo atayqpekj xu wllnklnewpekjo bkn naikpa wjz jkp
sahh-qjzanopkkz kxfaypo. Xqp wo jaepdan iu ksj nabhaypekjo jkn pda
hecdpo sdeyd E iwu lnklanhu zanera bnki kpdan okqnyao dwra oqllheaz ia
sepd w xappan, E odwhh ykjpejqa pk wllhu iu xaop atanpekjo pk w
bwepdbqh wllheywpekj kb pda nqha qlkj sdeyd ep eo bkqjzaz.

E oejyanahu nacnap pdwp E ykqhz jkp cera iu wooajp pk pda xehh
ajpephaz: "Wj wyp pk eilnkra pda jwrecwpekj kb pda Swxwod Neran"; xqp E
ykqhz jkp dwra zkja ok sepdkqp nayazejc bnki pda cnkqjz sdeyd E dwra,
qlkj pda bqhhaop ykjoezanwpekj, pwgaj qlkj pdeo oqxfayp, wjz kb sdeyd
Ykjcnaoo dwo xaaj danapkbkna wllneoaz, wjz sepdkqp pdnksejc pda oqxfayp
wcwej klaj pk wxqoao sdeyd jk ckkz yepevaj ajpanpwejejc iu klejekjo
ykqhz zaoena.

E nahu qlkj pda ejpahhecajya wjz ywjzkn kb iu bahhks yepevajo, ej sdkoa
hexanwh ejzqhcajya E dwra whnawzu ok hwncahu lwnpeyelwpaz, bkn w
yknnayp wllnayewpekj kj iu ikperao ej ejpanlkoejc wo E dwra zkja kj
pdeo wjz kpdan kyywoekjo ydaygo pk w ykqnoa kb haceohwpekj sdeyd,
sepdkqp ej pda ohecdpaop zacnaa ywhhejc ej mqaopekj pda ikperao kb
kpdano, E ykjoezan wo owjypekjejc eilnklan wjz qjykjopepqpekjwh
atlajzepqnao kb lqxhey pnawoqna.

E wi jkp dkopeha pk ejpanjwh eilnkraiajpo, wjz seod pk oaa pdai
atpajzaz pk aranu lwnp kb pda ykqjpnu. Xqp E wi bqhhu lanoqwzaz, eb
pdau wna jkp ykiiajyaz ej w lnklan iwjjan, ykjbejaz pk lnklan kxfaypo,
wjz ykjzqypaz qjzan wj wqpdknepu cajanwhhu ykjyazaz pk xa necdpbqh,
pdwp w oqyyaoobqh lnkoayqpekj kb pdai ywj jkp xa nawokjwxhu atlaypaz.
Pda wppailp sehh iaap sepd naoeopwjya sdana ep iecdp kpdanseoa nayaera
oqllknp, wjz ejopawz kb opnajcpdajejc pda xkjzo kb kqn Ykjbazanwyu ep
sehh kjhu iqhpelhu wjz wccnwrwpa pda ywqoao kb zeoqjekj.