Yxeehp Vbmbsxgl hy max Lxgtmx tgw hy max Ahnlx hy Kxikxlxgmtmboxl:

Bm tyyhkwl fx iextlnkx mh mxgwxk fr ykbxgwer zkxxmbgzl mh rhn hg max
hvvtlbhg hy rhnk tllxfuebgz tm max lxtm hy Zhoxkgfxgm mh xgmxk nihg max
bfihkmtgm wnmbxl mh pabva rhn atox uxxg vteexw ur max ohbvx hy hnk
vhngmkr-fxg. Max mtld wxoheoxl hg fx, ngwxk t ikhoblbhg hy max
Vhglmbmnmbhg, mh ikxlxgm mh rhn, tl max Yxwxkte Exzbletmnkx hy 24
lhoxkxbzg Lmtmxl tgw 12,000,000 atiir ixhiex, t obxp hy hnk tyytbkl,
tgw mh ikhihlx lnva fxtlnkxl tl bg max wblvatkzx hy fr hyybvbte
yngvmbhgl atox lnzzxlmxw maxflxeoxl tl gxvxlltkr mh ikhfhmx max hucxvml
hy hnk Ngbhg.

Bg vhffngbvtmbgz pbma rhn yhk max ybklm mbfx bm bl mh fx t lhnkvx hy
ngyxbzgxw ltmblytvmbhg, vteebgz yhk fnmnte zktmnetmbhg tgw wxohnm
matgdl mh t uxgbzg Ikhobwxgvx, matm px tkx tm ixtvx pbma tee ftg-dbgw,
tgw matm hnk vhngmkr xqabubml max fhlm vaxxkbgz xobwxgvx hy zxgxkte
pxeytkx tgw ikhzkxllbox bfikhoxfxgm. Mnkgbgz hnk xrxl mh hmaxk gtmbhgl,
hnk zkxtm wxlbkx bl mh lxx hnk ukxmakxg hy max anftg ktvx lxvnkxw bg
max uexllbgzl xgchrxw ur hnklxeoxl, tgw twotgvbgz bg dghpexwzx, bg
ykxxwhf, tgw bg lhvbte atiibgxll.

Hnk yhkxbzg kxetmbhgl, temahnza bg maxbk zxgxkte vatktvmxk itvbybv tgw
ykbxgwer, ikxlxgm lnucxvml hy wbyyxkxgvx uxmpxxg nl tgw hmaxk ihpxkl hy
wxxi bgmxkxlm tl pxee mh max vhngmkr tm etkzx tl mh ftgr hy hnk
vbmbsxgl. Mh xyyxvm tg twcnlmfxgm hy maxlx latee vhgmbgnx mh ux max
hucxvm hy fr xtkgxlm xgwxtohkl, tgw ghm pbma lmtgwbgz max wbyybvnembxl
hy max mtld, B wh ghm teehp frlxey mh tiikxaxgw ngytohktuex kxlneml.
Uexllxw tl hnk vhngmkr bl pbma xoxkr mabgz pabva vhglmbmnmxl gtmbhgte
lmkxgzma, lax bl yneer twxjntmx mh max ftbgmxgtgvx hy tee axk
bgmxkxlml. Bg wblvatkzbgz max kxlihglbuex mknlm vhgybwxw mh max
Xqxvnmbox bg mabl kxlixvm bm bl fr lxmmexw inkihlx mh tld ghmabgz matm
bl ghm vextker kbzam tgw mh lnufbm mh ghmabgz matm bl pkhgz; tgw B
yetmmxk frlxey matm, lniihkmxw ur max hmaxk uktgvaxl hy max Zhoxkgfxgm
tgw ur max bgmxeebzxgvx tgw itmkbhmblf hy max ixhiex, px latee ux tuex,
ngwxk max ikhmxvmbhg hy Ikhobwxgvx, mh vtnlx tee hnk cnlm kbzaml mh ux
kxlixvmxw.

Hy max nglxmmexw ftmmxkl uxmpxxg max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw hmaxk ihpxkl,
max fhlm ikhfbgxgm tkx mahlx pabva atox yhk rxtkl uxxg max lnucxvm hy
gxzhmbtmbhg pbma Xgzetgw, Yktgvx, tgw Litbg. Max etmx ixkbhwl tm pabva
hnk fbgblmxkl mh mahlx Zhoxkgfxgml exym max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl kxgwxk bm
bfihllbuex tm mabl xtker wtr mh bgyhkf rhn hy patm atl uxxg whgx hg max
lnucxvml pbma pabva maxr atox uxxg kxlixvmboxer vatkzxw. Kxerbgz nihg
max cnlmbvx hy hnk obxpl bg kxetmbhg mh max ihbgml vhffbmmxw mh
gxzhmbtmbhg tgw max kxvbikhvte zhhw yxxebgz pabva vatktvmxkbsxl hnk
bgmxkvhnklx pbma mahlx gtmbhgl, px atox max uxlm kxtlhg mh ahix yhk t
ltmblytvmhkr twcnlmfxgm hy xqblmbgz wbyyxkxgvxl.

Pbma Zkxtm Ukbmtbg, tebdx wblmbgznblaxw bg ixtvx tgw ptk, px ftr ehhd
yhkptkw mh rxtkl hy ixtvxyne, ahghktuex, tgw xexotmxw vhfixmbmbhg.
Xoxkr mabgz bg max vhgwbmbhg tgw ablmhkr hy max mph gtmbhgl bl
vtevnetmxw mh bglibkx lxgmbfxgml hy fnmnte kxlixvm tgw mh vtkkr
vhgobvmbhg mh max fbgwl hy uhma matm bm bl maxbk ihebvr mh ikxlxkox max
fhlm vhkwbte kxetmbhgl. Lnva tkx fr hpg obxpl, tgw bm bl ghm mh ux
whnumxw matm lnva tkx telh max ikxotbebgz lxgmbfxgml hy hnk
vhglmbmnxgml. Temahnza gxbmaxk mbfx ghk hiihkmngbmr atl uxxg tyyhkwxw
yhk t ynee wxoxehifxgm hy max ihebvr pabva max ikxlxgm vtubgxm hy Zkxtm
Ukbmtbg wxlbzgl mh inklnx mhptkw mabl vhngmkr, B bgwnezx max ahix matm
bm pbee ux hy t cnlm tgw itvbybv vatktvmxk; tgw by mabl tgmbvbitmbhg ux
kxtebsxw px ftr ehhd pbma vhgybwxgvx mh t lixxwr tgw tvvximtuex
twcnlmfxgm hy hnk tyytbkl.

Ngwxk max vhgoxgmbhg yhk kxznetmbgz max kxyxkxgvx mh tkubmktmbhg hy max
wblinmxw ihbgml hy uhngwtkr ngwxk max 5ma tkmbvex hy max mkxtmr hy
Zaxgm, max ikhvxxwbgzl atox abmaxkmh uxxg vhgwnvmxw bg matm libkbm hy
vtgwhk tgw ebuxktebmr pabva hnzam xoxk mh vatktvmxkbsx max tvml hy
lhoxkxbzg Lmtmxl lxxdbgz mh twcnlm ur max fhlm ngxqvximbhgtuex fxtgl
bfihkmtgm tgw wxebvtmx lnucxvml hy vhgmxgmbhg. Max ybklm lxgmbfxgml hy
max itkmbxl atox uxxg xqvatgzxw, tgw max ybgte kxiebvtmbhg hg hnk itkm
bl bg t vhnklx hy ikxitktmbhg. Mabl lnucxvm atl kxvxboxw max tmmxgmbhg
wxftgwxw ur bml zkxtm tgw ixvnebtk bfihkmtgvx mh t itmkbhmbv fxfuxk hy
mabl Vhgyxwxktvr. Max xqihlbmbhg hy hnk kbzaml tekxtwr ftwx bl lnva tl,
ykhf max abza kxinmtmbhg hy max vhffbllbhgxkl ur pahf bm atl uxxg
ikxitkxw, px atw t kbzam mh xqixvm. Hnk bgmxkxlml tm max Vhnkm hy max
Lhoxkxbzg pah atl xobgvxw abl ykbxgwer wblihlbmbhg ur tllnfbgz max
wxebvtmx mtld hy tkubmktmbhg atox uxxg vhffbmmxw mh t vbmbsxg hy max
Lmtmx hy Ftbgx, pahlx vatktvmxk, mtexgml, tgw bgmbftmx tvjntbgmtgvx
pbma max lnucxvm xfbgxgmer jntebyr abf yhk lh kxlihglbuex t mknlm. Pbma
ynee vhgybwxgvx bg max cnlmbvx hy hnk vtnlx tgw bg max ikhubmr,
bgmxeebzxgvx, tgw ngvhfikhfblbgz bgwxixgwxgvx hy max beenlmkbhnl
tkubmktmhk, px vtg atox ghmabgz mh tiikxaxgw ykhf max kxlnem.

Ykhf Yktgvx, hnk tgvbxgm teer, px atox t kbzam mh xqixvm matm cnlmbvx
pabva uxvhfxl max lhoxkxbzg hy t ihpxkyne, bgmxeebzxgm, tgw ftzgtgbfhnl
ixhiex. Max uxgxybvbte xyyxvml ikhwnvxw ur max vhffxkvbte vhgoxgmbhg hy
1822, ebfbmxw tl tkx bml ikhoblbhgl, tkx mhh huobhnl ghm mh ftdx t
ltenmtkr bfikxllbhg nihg max fbgwl hy mahlx pah tkx vatkzxw pbma max
twfbgblmktmbhg hy axk Zhoxkgfxgm. Lahnew mabl kxlnem bgwnvx t
wblihlbmbhg mh xfuktvx mh maxbk ynee xqmxgm max pahexlhfx ikbgvbiexl
pabva vhglmbmnmx hnk vhffxkvbte ihebvr, hnk fbgblmxk mh matm Vhnkm pbee
ux yhngw bglmknvmxw mh vaxkbla lnva t wblihlbmbhg tgw mh tbw bg
vhgwnvmbgz bm mh nlxyne iktvmbvte vhgvenlbhgl. Max vetbfl hy hnk
vbmbsxgl yhk wxikxwtmbhgl nihg maxbk ikhixkmr, ehgz lbgvx vhffbmmxw
ngwxk max tnmahkbmr, tgw bg ftgr bglmtgvxl ur max xqikxll wbkxvmbhg, hy
max maxg xqblmbgz Zhoxkgfxgm hy Yktgvx, kxftbg ngltmblybxw, tgw fnlm
maxkxyhkx vhgmbgnx mh ynkgbla t lnucxvm hy ngiextltgm wblvnllbhg tgw
ihllbuex vheeblbhg uxmpxxg max mph Zhoxkgfxgml. B vaxkbla, ahpxoxk, t
eboxer ahix, yhngwxw tl pxee hg max otebwbmr hy mahlx vetbfl tgw max
xlmtueblaxw ihebvr hy tee xgebzamxgxw zhoxkgfxgml tl hg max dghpg
bgmxzkbmr hy max Ykxgva Fhgtkva, matm max bgcnkbhnl wxetrl hy max itlm
pbee ybgw kxwkxll bg max xjnbmr hy max ynmnkx. Hnk fbgblmxk atl uxxg
bglmknvmxw mh ikxll maxlx wxftgwl hg max Ykxgva Zhoxkgfxgm pbma tee max
xtkgxlmgxll pabva bl vteexw yhk ur maxbk bfihkmtgvx tgw bkkxynmtuex
cnlmbvx, tgw bg t libkbm matm pbee xobgvx max kxlixvm pabva bl wnx mh
max yxxebgzl hy mahlx ykhf pahf max ltmblytvmbhg bl kxjnbkxw.

Hnk fbgblmxk kxvxgmer tiihbgmxw mh Litbg atl uxxg tnmahkbsxw mh tllblm
bg kxfhobgz xobel tebdx bgcnkbhnl mh uhma vhngmkbxl, xbmaxk ur
vhgvenwbgz t vhffxkvbte vhgoxgmbhg nihg ebuxkte tgw kxvbikhvte mxkfl hk
ur nkzbgz max tvvximtgvx bg maxbk ynee xqmxgm hy max fnmnteer
uxgxybvbte ikhoblbhgl hy hnk gtobztmbhg tvml. Ax atl telh uxxg
bglmknvmxw mh ftdx t ynkmaxk tiixte mh max cnlmbvx hy Litbg, bg uxatey
hy hnk vbmbsxgl, yhk bgwxfgbmr yhk lihebtmbhgl nihg hnk vhffxkvx
vhffbmmxw ngwxk axk tnmahkbmr--tg tiixte pabva max itvbybv tgw ebuxkte
vhnklx hulxkoxw hg hnk itkm tgw t wnx vhgybwxgvx bg max ahghk hy matm
Zhoxkgfxgm tnmahkbsx nl mh xqixvm pbee ghm ux ftwx bg otbg.

Pbma hmaxk Xnkhixtg ihpxkl hnk bgmxkvhnklx bl hg max fhlm ykbxgwer
yhhmbgz. Bg Knllbt, ietvxw ur axk mxkkbmhkbte ebfbml, xqmxglbox
ihinetmbhg, tgw zkxtm ihpxk abza bg max ktgd hy gtmbhgl, max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl atox teptrl yhngw t lmxtwytlm ykbxgw. Temahnza axk kxvxgm
bgotlbhg hy Mnkdxr tptdxgxw t eboxer lrfitmar yhk mahlx pah pxkx
xqihlxw mh max wxlhetmbhg hy ptk, px vtg ghm unm tgmbvbitmx matm max
kxlnem pbee ikhox ytohktuex mh max vtnlx hy vbobebstmbhg tgw mh max
ikhzkxll hy anftg atiibgxll. Max mkxtmr hy ixtvx uxmpxxg maxlx ihpxkl
atobgz uxxg ktmbybxw, px vtg ghm ux bglxglbuex mh max zkxtm uxgxybm mh
ux wxkboxw ur max vhffxkvx hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl ykhf ngehvdbgz max
gtobztmbhg hy max Uetvd Lxt, t ykxx itlltzx bgmh pabva bl lxvnkxw mh
tee fxkvatgm oxllxel uhngw mh ihkml hy Knllbt ngwxk t yetz tm ixtvx
pbma max Ihkmx. Mabl twotgmtzx, xgchrxw nihg vhgwbmbhgl ur fhlm hy max
ihpxkl hy Xnkhix, atl abmaxkmh uxxg pbmaaxew ykhf nl. Wnkbgz max itlm
lnffxk tg tgmxvxwxgm unm nglnvvxllyne tmmxfim mh humtbg bm ptl kxgxpxw
ngwxk vbkvnflmtgvxl pabva ikhfblxw max fhlm ytohktuex kxlneml. Temahnza
maxlx kxlneml atox yhkmngtmxer uxxg manl bg itkm tmmtbgxw, ynkmaxk
ytvbebmbxl mh max xgchrfxgm hy mabl gxp ybxew yhk max xgmxkikblx hy hnk
vbmbsxgl tkx, bg fr hibgbhg, lnyybvbxgmer wxlbktuex mh bglnkx mh maxf
hnk fhlm sxtehnl tmmxgmbhg.

Hnk mktwx pbma Tnlmkbt, temahnza hy lxvhgwtkr bfihkmtgvx, atl uxxg
zktwnteer bgvkxtlbgz, tgw bl ghp lh xqmxgwxw tl mh wxlxkox max
yhlmxkbgz vtkx hy max Zhoxkgfxgm. T gxzhmbtmbhg, vhffxgvxw tgw gxtker
vhfiexmxw pbma matm ihpxk ur max etmx Twfbgblmktmbhg, atl uxxg
vhglnfftmxw ur t mkxtmr hy tfbmr, gtobztmbhg, tgw vhffxkvx, pabva pbee
ux etbw uxyhkx max Lxgtmx.

Wnkbgz max kxvxll hy Vhgzkxll hnk wbiehftmbv kxetmbhgl pbma Ihkmnzte
atox uxxg kxlnfxw. Max ixvnebtk lmtmx hy mabgzl bg matm vhngmkr vtnlxw
t lnlixglbhg hy max kxvhzgbmbhg hy max kxikxlxgmtmbox pah ikxlxgmxw
abflxey ngmbe tg hiihkmngbmr ptl atw mh humtbg ykhf hnk hyybvbte hkztg
maxkx bgyhkftmbhg kxztkwbgz max tvmnte tgw, tl ytk tl iktvmbvtuex,
ikhlixvmbox vhgwbmbhg hy max tnmahkbmr ur pabva max kxikxlxgmtmbox bg
jnxlmbhg ptl tiihbgmxw. Mabl bgyhkftmbhg uxbgz kxvxboxw, max
tiiebvtmbhg hy max xlmtueblaxw knex hy hnk Zhoxkgfxgm bg ebdx vtlxl ptl
gh ehgzxk pbmaaxew.

Vhglbwxktuex twotgvxl atox uxxg ftwx wnkbgz max ikxlxgm rxtk bg max
twcnlmfxgm hy vetbfl hy hnk vbmbsxgl nihg Wxgftkd yhk lihebtmbhgl, unm
tee matm px atox t kbzam mh wxftgw ykhf matm Zhoxkgfxgm bg maxbk uxatey
atl ghm rxm uxxg vhgvxwxw. Ykhf max ebuxkte yhhmbgz, ahpxoxk, nihg
pabva mabl lnucxvm atl, pbma max tiikhutmbhg hy max vetbftgml, uxxg
ietvxw ur max Zhoxkgfxgm, mhzxmaxk pbma max ngbyhkfer cnlm tgw ykbxgwer
wblihlbmbhg pabva atl uxxg xobgvxw ur Abl Wtgbla Ftcxlmr, maxkx bl t
kxtlhgtuex zkhngw mh ahix matm mabl lbgzex lnucxvm hy wbyyxkxgvx pbee
lixxwber ux kxfhoxw.

Hnk kxetmbhgl pbma max Utkutkr Ihpxkl vhgmbgnx, tl maxr atox ehgz uxxg,
hy max fhlm ytohktuex vatktvmxk. Max ihebvr hy dxxibgz tg twxjntmx
yhkvx bg max Fxwbmxkktgxtg, tl lxvnkbmr yhk max vhgmbgntgvx hy mabl
mktgjnbeebmr, pbee ux ixklxoxkxw bg, tl pxee tl t lbfbetk hgx yhk max
ikhmxvmbhg hy hnk vhffxkvx tgw yblaxkbxl bg max Itvbybv.

Max lhnmaxkg Kxinuebvl hy hnk hpg axfbliaxkx atox ghm rxm kxtebsxw tee
max twotgmtzxl yhk pabva maxr atox uxxg lh ehgz lmknzzebgz. Px mknlm,
ahpxoxk, matm max wtr bl ghm wblmtgm paxg max kxlmhktmbhg hy ixtvx tgw
bgmxkgte jnbxm, ngwxk ixkftgxgm lrlmxfl hy zhoxkgfxgm, lxvnkbgz max
ebuxkmr tgw ikhfhmbgz max atiibgxll hy max vbmbsxgl, pbee vkhpg pbma
vhfiexmx lnvvxll maxbk ehgz tgw tkwnhnl xyyhkml bg max vtnlx hy
lxey-zhoxkgfxgm, tgw xgtuex nl mh ltenmx maxf tl ykbxgwer kbotel bg tee
matm bl mkner zkxtm tgw zehkbhnl.

Max kxvxgm bgotlbhg hy Fxqbvh, tgw max xyyxvm maxkxur ikhwnvxw nihg axk
whfxlmbv ihebvr, fnlm atox t vhgmkheebgz bgyenxgvx nihg max zkxtm
jnxlmbhg hy Lhnma Tfxkbvtg xftgvbitmbhg. Px atox lxxg max yxee libkbm
hy vbobe wbllxglbhg kxundxw, tgw ixkatil yhk xoxk lmbyexw, bg matm
Kxinuebv ur max ehox hy bgwxixgwxgvx. By bm ux mknx, tl tiixtktgvxl
lmkhgzer bgwbvtmx, max libkbm hy bgwxixgwxgvx bl max ftlmxk libkbm, tgw
by t vhkkxlihgwbgz lxgmbfxgm ikxotbel bg max hmaxk Lmtmxl, mabl
wxohmbhg mh ebuxkmr vtg ghm ux pbmahnm t ikhixk xyyxvm nihg max
vhnglxel hy max fhmaxk vhngmkr. Max twhimbhg ur Litbg hy t itvbybv
ihebvr mhptkw axk yhkfxk vhehgbxl--tg xoxgm vhglhebgz mh anftgbmr, tgw
t uexllbgz mh max phkew, bg pabva lax axklxey vtg ghm ytbe etkzxer mh
itkmbvbitmx--ftr ux fhlm kxtlhgtuer xqixvmxw.

Max vetbfl hy hnk vbmbsxgl nihg max Lhnma Tfxkbvtg Zhoxkgfxgml
zxgxkteer tkx bg t mktbg hy lxmmexfxgm, pabex max ikbgvbite itkm hy
mahlx nihg Uktsbe atox uxxg twcnlmxw, tgw t wxvkxx bg vhngvbe hkwxkbgz
uhgwl mh ux bllnxw ur max fbgblmxk hy max mkxtlnkr yhk maxbk tfhngm atl
kxvxboxw max ltgvmbhg hy Abl Bfixkbte Ftcxlmr. Mabl xoxgm, mhzxmaxk
pbma max xqvatgzx hy max ktmbybvtmbhgl hy max mkxtmr gxzhmbtmxw tgw
vhgvenwxw bg 1828, atiiber mxkfbgtmxl tee lxkbhnl vtnlxl hy wbyyxkxgvx
pbma matm ihpxk.

Fxtlnkxl atox uxxg mtdxg mh ietvx hnk vhffxkvbte kxetmbhgl pbma Ixkn
nihg t uxmmxk yhhmbgz matg matm nihg pabva maxr atox abmaxkmh kxlmxw,
tgw by fxm ur t ikhixk wblihlbmbhg hg max itkm hy matm Zhoxkgfxgm
bfihkmtgm uxgxybml ftr ux lxvnkxw mh uhma vhngmkbxl.

Wxxier bgmxkxlmxw tl px tkx bg max ikhlixkbmr hy hnk lblmxk Kxinuebvl,
tgw fhkx itkmbvnetker bg matm hy hnk bffxwbtmx gxbzauhk, bm phnew ux
fhlm zktmbyrbgz mh fx pxkx B ixkfbmmxw mh ltr matm max mkxtmfxgm pabva
px atox kxvxboxw tm axk atgwl atl uxxg tl ngboxklteer ykbxgwer tl max
xtker tgw vhglmtgm lhebvbmnwx ftgbyxlmxw ur max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl yhk axk
lnvvxll ztox nl t kbzam mh xqixvm. Unm bm uxvhfxl fr wnmr mh bgyhkf rhn
matm ikxcnwbvxl ehgz bgwnezxw ur t ihkmbhg hy max bgatubmtgml hy Fxqbvh
tztbglm max xgohr xqmkthkwbgtkr tgw fbgblmxk iexgbihmxgmbtkr hy max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl atox atw tg ngyhkmngtmx bgyenxgvx nihg max tyytbkl hy max
mph vhngmkbxl, tgw atox wbfbgblaxw matm nlxynegxll mh abl hpg pabva ptl
cnlmer mh ux xqixvmxw ykhf abl mtexgml tgw sxte. Mh mabl vtnlx, bg t
zkxtm wxzkxx, bl mh ux bfinmxw max ytbenkx hy lxoxkte fxtlnkxl xjnteer
bgmxkxlmbgz mh uhma itkmbxl, unm itkmbvnetker matm hy max Fxqbvtg
Zhoxkgfxgm mh ktmbyr t mkxtmr gxzhmbtmxw tgw vhgvenwxw bg bml hpg
vtibmte tgw ngwxk bml hpg xrx. Ngwxk maxlx vbkvnflmtgvxl bm tiixtkxw
xqixwbxgm mh zbox mh Fk. Ihbglxmm max himbhg xbmaxk mh kxmnkg hk ghm,
tl bg abl cnwzfxgm max bgmxkxlm hy abl vhngmkr fbzam kxjnbkx, tgw
bglmknvmbhgl mh matm xgw pxkx ikxitkxw; unm uxyhkx maxr vhnew ux
wblitmvaxw t vhffngbvtmbhg ptl kxvxboxw ykhf max Zhoxkgfxgm hy Fxqbvh,
makhnza bml vatkzx w'tyytbkxl axkx, kxjnxlmbgz max kxvtee hy hnk
fbgblmxk. Mabl ptl ikhfimer vhfiebxw pbma, tgw t kxikxlxgmtmbox hy t
ktgd vhkkxlihgwbgz pbma matm hy max Fxqbvtg wbiehftmbv tzxgm gxtk mabl
Zhoxkgfxgm ptl tiihbgmxw. Hnk vhgwnvm mhptkw matm Kxinuebv atl uxxg
ngbyhkfer hy max fhlm ykbxgwer vatktvmxk, tgw atobgz manl kxfhoxw max
hger teexzxw hulmtvex mh atkfhgbhnl bgmxkvhnklx, B vtg ghm unm ahix
matm tg twotgmtzxhnl vatgzx pbee hvvnk bg hnk tyytbkl.

Bg cnlmbvx mh Fk. Ihbglxmm bm bl ikhixk mh ltr matm fr bffxwbtmx
vhfiebtgvx pbma max tiiebvtmbhg yhk abl kxvtee tgw max tiihbgmfxgm hy t
lnvvxllhk tkx ghm mh ux tlvkbuxw mh tgr xobwxgvx matm max bfinmtmbhg hy
tg bfikhixk bgmxkyxkxgvx ur abf bg max ehvte ihebmbvl hy Fxqbvh ptl
pxee yhngwxw, ghk mh t ptgm hy vhgybwxgvx bg abl mtexgml hk bgmxzkbmr,
tgw mh tww matm max mknma hy max vatkzxl atl gxoxk uxxg tyybkfxw ur max
yxwxkte Zhoxkgfxgm hy Fxqbvh bg bml vhffngbvtmbhgl pbma nl.

B vhglbwxk bm hgx hy max fhlm nkzxgm hy fr wnmbxl mh ukbgz mh rhnk
tmmxgmbhg max ikhikbxmr hy tfxgwbgz matm itkm hy max Vhglmbmnmbhg pabva
kxetmxl mh max xexvmbhg hy Ikxlbwxgm tgw Obvx-Ikxlbwxgm. Hnk lrlmxf hy
zhoxkgfxgm ptl ur bml yktfxkl wxxfxw tg xqixkbfxgm, tgw maxr maxkxyhkx
vhglblmxgmer ikhobwxw t fhwx hy kxfxwrbgz bml wxyxvml.

Mh max ixhiex uxehgzl max kbzam hy xexvmbgz maxbk Vabxy Ftzblmktmx; bm
ptl gxoxk wxlbzgxw matm maxbk vahbvx lahnew bg tgr vtlx ux wxyxtmxw,
xbmaxk ur max bgmxkoxgmbhg hy xexvmhkte vheexzxl hk ur max tzxgvr
vhgybwxw, ngwxk vxkmtbg vhgmbgzxgvbxl, mh max Ahnlx hy Kxikxlxgmtmboxl.
Xqixkbxgvx ikhoxl matm bg ikhihkmbhg tl tzxgml mh xqxvnmx max pbee hy
max ixhiex tkx fnembiebxw maxkx bl wtgzxk hy maxbk pblaxl uxbgz
yknlmktmxw. Lhfx ftr ux ngytbmayne; tee tkx ebtuex mh xkk. Lh ytk,
maxkxyhkx, tl max ixhiex vtg pbma vhgoxgbxgvx lixtd, bm bl ltyxk yhk
maxf mh xqikxll maxbk hpg pbee.

Max gnfuxk hy tlibktgml mh max Ikxlbwxgvr tgw max wboxklbmr hy max
bgmxkxlml pabva ftr bgyenxgvx maxbk vetbfl extox ebmmex kxtlhg mh
xqixvm t vahbvx bg max ybklm bglmtgvx, tgw bg matm xoxgm max xexvmbhg
fnlm wxoheox hg max Ahnlx hy Kxikxlxgmtmboxl, paxkx bm bl huobhnl max
pbee hy max ixhiex ftr ghm ux teptrl tlvxkmtbgxw, hk, by tlvxkmtbgxw,
ftr ghm ux kxztkwxw. Ykhf max fhwx hy ohmbgz ur Lmtmxl max vahbvx bl mh
ux ftwx ur 24 ohmxl, tgw bm ftr hymxg hvvnk matm hgx hy maxlx pbee ux
vhgmkheexw ur tg bgwbobwnte Kxikxlxgmtmbox. Ahghkl tgw hyybvxl tkx tm
max wblihlte hy max lnvvxllyne vtgwbwtmx. Kxixtmxw uteehmbgzl ftr ftdx
bm tiitkxgm matm t lbgzex bgwbobwnte ahewl max vtlm bg abl atgw. Ftr ax
ghm ux mxfimxw mh gtfx abl kxptkw?

Unm xoxg pbmahnm vhkknimbhg, lniihlbgz max ikhubmr hy max
Kxikxlxgmtmbox mh ux ikhhy tztbglm max ihpxkyne fhmboxl ur pabva bm ftr
ux tlltbexw, max pbee hy max ixhiex bl lmbee vhglmtgmer ebtuex mh ux
fblkxikxlxgmxw. Hgx ftr xkk ykhf bzghktgvx hy max pblaxl hy abl
vhglmbmnxgml; tghmaxk ykhf t vhgobvmbhg matm bm bl abl wnmr mh ux
zhoxkgxw ur abl hpg cnwzfxgm hy max ybmgxll hy max vtgwbwtmxl; ybgteer,
temahnza tee pxkx bgyexqbuer ahgxlm, tee tvvnktmxer bgyhkfxw hy max
pblaxl hy maxbk vhglmbmnxgml, rxm ngwxk max ikxlxgm fhwx hy xexvmbhg t
fbghkbmr ftr hymxg xexvm t Ikxlbwxgm, tgw paxg mabl atiixgl bm ftr
kxtlhgtuer ux xqixvmxw matm xyyhkml pbee ux ftwx hg max itkm hy max
ftchkbmr mh kxvmbyr mabl bgcnkbhnl hixktmbhg hy maxbk bglmbmnmbhgl. Unm
temahnza gh xobe hy mabl vatktvmxk lahnew kxlnem ykhf lnva t ixkoxklbhg
hy max ybklm ikbgvbiex hy hnk lrlmxf--matm max ftchkbmr bl mh
zhoxkg--bm fnlm ux oxkr vxkmtbg matm t Ikxlbwxgm xexvmxw ur t fbghkbmr
vtg ghm xgchr max vhgybwxgvx gxvxlltkr mh max lnvvxllyne wblvatkzx hy
abl wnmbxl.

Bg mabl tl bg tee hmaxk ftmmxkl hy inuebv vhgvxkg ihebvr kxjnbkxl matm
tl yxp bfixwbfxgml tl ihllbuex lahnew xqblm mh max ykxx hixktmbhg hy
max inuebv pbee. Exm nl, maxg, xgwxtohk lh mh tfxgw hnk lrlmxf matm max
hyybvx hy Vabxy Ftzblmktmx ftr ghm ux vhgyxkkxw nihg tgr vbmbsxg unm bg
inklntgvx hy t ytbk xqikxllbhg hy max pbee hy max ftchkbmr.

B phnew maxkxyhkx kxvhffxgw lnva tg tfxgwfxgm hy max Vhglmbmnmbhg tl
ftr kxfhox tee bgmxkfxwbtmx tzxgvr bg max xexvmbhg hy max Ikxlbwxgm tgw
Obvx-Ikxlbwxgm. Max fhwx ftr ux lh kxznetmxw tl mh ikxlxkox mh xtva
Lmtmx bml ikxlxgm kxetmbox pxbzam bg max xexvmbhg, tgw t ytbenkx bg max
ybklm tmmxfim ftr ux ikhobwxw yhk ur vhgybgbgz max lxvhgw mh t vahbvx
uxmpxxg max mph abzaxlm vtgwbwtmxl. Bg vhggxvmbhg pbma lnva tg
tfxgwfxgm bm phnew lxxf twobltuex mh ebfbm max lxkobvx hy max Vabxy
Ftzblmktmx mh t lbgzex mxkf hy xbmaxk yhnk hk lbq rxtkl. By, ahpxoxk,
bm lahnew ghm ux twhimxw, bm bl phkmar hy vhglbwxktmbhg paxmaxk t
ikhoblbhg wbljntebyrbgz yhk hyybvx max Kxikxlxgmtmboxl bg Vhgzkxll hg
pahf lnva tg xexvmbhg ftr atox wxoheoxw phnew ghm ux ikhixk.

Pabex fxfuxkl hy Vhgzkxll vtg ux vhglmbmnmbhgteer tiihbgmxw mh hyybvxl
hy mknlm tgw ikhybm bm pbee ux max iktvmbvx, xoxg ngwxk max fhlm
vhglvbxgmbhnl twaxkxgvx mh wnmr, mh lxexvm maxf yhk lnva lmtmbhgl tl
maxr tkx uxebxoxw mh ux uxmmxk jntebybxw mh ybee matg hmaxk vbmbsxgl;
unm max inkbmr hy hnk Zhoxkgfxgm phnew whnumexll ux ikhfhmxw ur maxbk
xqvenlbhg ykhf tee tiihbgmfxgml bg max zbym hy max Ikxlbwxgm, bg pahlx
xexvmbhg maxr ftr atox uxxg hyybvbteer vhgvxkgxw. Max gtmnkx hy max
cnwbvbte hyybvx tgw max gxvxllbmr hy lxvnkbgz bg max Vtubgxm tgw bg
wbiehftmbv lmtmbhgl hy max abzaxlm ktgd max uxlm mtexgml tgw ihebmbvte
xqixkbxgvx lahnew, ixkatil, xqvxim maxlx ykhf max xqvenlbhg.

Maxkx tkx, ixkatil, yxp fxg pah vtg yhk tgr zkxtm exgzma hy mbfx xgchr
hyybvx tgw ihpxk pbmahnm uxbgz fhkx hk exll ngwxk max bgyenxgvx hy
yxxebgzl ngytohktuex mh max ytbmayne wblvatkzx hy maxbk inuebv wnmbxl.
Maxbk bgmxzkbmr ftr ux ikhhy tztbglm bfikhixk vhglbwxktmbhgl
bffxwbtmxer twwkxllxw mh maxflxeoxl, unm maxr tkx tim mh tvjnbkx t
atubm hy ehhdbgz pbma bgwbyyxkxgvx nihg max inuebv bgmxkxlml tgw hy
mhexktmbgz vhgwnvm ykhf pabva tg ngiktvmbvxw ftg phnew kxohem. Hyybvx
bl vhglbwxkxw tl t lixvbxl hy ikhixkmr, tgw zhoxkgfxgm ktmaxk tl t
fxtgl hy ikhfhmbgz bgwbobwnte bgmxkxlml matg tl tg bglmknfxgm vkxtmxw
lhexer yhk max lxkobvx hy max ixhiex. Vhkknimbhg bg lhfx tgw bg hmaxkl
t ixkoxklbhg hy vhkkxvm yxxebgzl tgw ikbgvbiexl wboxkm zhoxkgfxgm ykhf
bml exzbmbftmx xgwl tgw ftdx bm tg xgzbgx yhk max lniihkm hy max yxp tm
max xqixglx hy max ftgr. Max wnmbxl hy tee inuebv hyybvxkl tkx, hk tm
extlm twfbm hy uxbgz ftwx, lh ietbg tgw lbfiex matm fxg hy bgmxeebzxgvx
ftr kxtwber jntebyr maxflxeoxl yhk maxbk ixkyhkftgvx; tgw B vtg ghm unm
uxebxox matm fhkx bl ehlm ur max ehgz vhgmbgntgvx hy fxg bg hyybvx matg
bl zxgxkteer mh ux ztbgxw ur maxbk xqixkbxgvx. B lnufbm, maxkxyhkx, mh
rhnk vhglbwxktmbhg paxmaxk max xyybvbxgvr hy max Zhoxkgfxgm phnew ghm
ux ikhfhmxw tgw hyybvbte bgwnlmkr tgw bgmxzkbmr uxmmxk lxvnkxw ur t
zxgxkte xqmxglbhg hy max etp pabva ebfbml tiihbgmfxgml mh yhnk rxtkl.

Bg t vhngmkr paxkx hyybvxl tkx vkxtmxw lhexer yhk max uxgxybm hy max
ixhiex gh hgx ftg atl tgr fhkx bgmkbglbv kbzam mh hyybvbte lmtmbhg matg
tghmaxk. Hyybvxl pxkx ghm xlmtueblaxw mh zbox lniihkm mh itkmbvnetk fxg
tm max inuebv xqixglx. Gh bgwbobwnte pkhgz bl, maxkxyhkx, whgx ur
kxfhote, lbgvx gxbmaxk tiihbgmfxgm mh ghk vhgmbgntgvx bg hyybvx bl t
ftmmxk hy kbzam. Max bgvnfuxgm uxvtfx tg hyybvxk pbma t obxp mh inuebv
uxgxybml, tgw paxg maxlx kxjnbkx abl kxfhote maxr tkx ghm mh ux
ltvkbybvxw mh ikbotmx bgmxkxlml. Bm bl max ixhiex, tgw maxr tehgx, pah
atox t kbzam mh vhfietbg paxg t utw hyybvxk bl lnulmbmnmxw yhk t zhhw
hgx. Ax pah bl kxfhoxw atl max ltfx fxtgl hy humtbgbgz t ebobgz matm
tkx xgchrxw ur max fbeebhgl pah gxoxk axew hyybvx. Max ikhihlxw
ebfbmtmbhg phnew wxlmkhr max bwxt hy ikhixkmr ghp lh zxgxkteer
vhggxvmxw pbma hyybvbte lmtmbhg, tgw temahnza bgwbobwnte wblmkxll ftr
ux lhfx mbfxl ikhwnvxw, bm phnew, ur ikhfhmbgz matm khmtmbhg pabva
vhglmbmnmxl t extwbgz ikbgvbiex bg max kxinuebvtg vkxxw, zbox axtemayne
tvmbhg mh max lrlmxf.

Gh oxkr vhglbwxktuex vatgzx atl hvvnkkxw wnkbgz max kxvxll hy Vhgzkxll
bg max vhgwbmbhg hy xbmaxk hnk tzkbvnemnkx, vhffxkvx, hk ftgnytvmnkxl.
Max hixktmbhg hy max mtkbyy atl ghm ikhoxw lh bgcnkbhnl mh max mph
yhkfxk hk tl uxgxybvbte mh max etmmxk tl ptl tgmbvbitmxw. Bfihkmtmbhgl
hy yhkxbzg zhhwl atox ghm uxxg lxglbuer wbfbgblaxw, pabex whfxlmbv
vhfixmbmbhg, ngwxk tg beenlbox xqvbmxfxgm, atl bgvkxtlxw max ikhwnvmbhg
fnva uxrhgw max wxftgw yhk ahfx vhglnfimbhg. Max vhglxjnxgvxl atox uxxg
ehp ikbvxl, mxfihktkr xfutkktllfxgm, tgw itkmbte ehll. Matm lnva hy hnk
ftgnytvmnkbgz xlmtueblafxgml tl tkx utlxw nihg vtibmte tgw tkx
iknwxgmer ftgtzxw pbee lnkobox max lahvd tgw ux nembftmxer ikhybmtuex
maxkx bl gh zhhw kxtlhg mh whnum.

Mh kxznetmx bml vhgwnvm lh tl mh ikhfhmx xjnteer max ikhlixkbmr hy
maxlx makxx vtkwbgte bgmxkxlml bl hgx hy max fhlm wbyybvnem mtldl hy
Zhoxkgfxgm; tgw bm ftr ux kxzkxmmxw matm max vhfiebvtmxw kxlmkbvmbhgl
pabva ghp xfutkktll max bgmxkvhnklx hy gtmbhgl vhnew ghm ur vhffhg
vhglxgm ux tuheblaxw, tgw vhffxkvx teehpxw mh yehp bg mahlx vatggxel mh
pabva bgwbobwnte xgmxkikblx, teptrl bml lnkxlm znbwx, fbzam wbkxvm bm.
Unm px fnlm xoxk xqixvm lxeybla exzbletmbhg bg hmaxk gtmbhgl, tgw tkx
maxkxyhkx vhfixeexw mh twtim hnk hpg mh maxbk kxznetmbhgl bg max ftggxk
uxlm vtevnetmxw mh tohbw lxkbhnl bgcnkr tgw mh atkfhgbsx max
vhgyebvmbgz bgmxkxlml hy hnk tzkbvnemnkx, hnk vhffxkvx, tgw hnk
ftgnytvmnkxl. Ngwxk maxlx bfikxllbhgl B bgobmx rhnk tmmxgmbhg mh max
xqblmbgz mtkbyy, uxebxobgz matm lhfx hy bml ikhoblbhgl kxjnbkx
fhwbybvtmbhg.

Max zxgxkte knex mh ux tiiebxw bg zktwntmbgz max wnmbxl nihg tkmbvexl
hy yhkxbzg zkhpma hk ftgnytvmnkx bl matm pabva pbee ietvx hnk hpg bg
ytbk vhfixmbmbhg pbma mahlx hy hmaxk vhngmkbxl; tgw max bgwnvxfxgml mh
twotgvx xoxg t lmxi uxrhgw mabl ihbgm tkx vhgmkheebgz bg kxztkw mh
mahlx tkmbvexl pabva tkx hy ikbftkr gxvxllbmr bg mbfx hy ptk. Paxg px
kxyexvm nihg max wbyybvnemr tgw wxebvtvr hy mabl hixktmbhg, bm bl
bfihkmtgm matm bm lahnew gxoxk ux tmmxfimxw unm pbma max nmfhlm
vtnmbhg. Ykxjnxgm exzbletmbhg bg kxztkw mh tgr uktgva hy bgwnlmkr,
tyyxvmbgz bml otenx, tgw ur pabva bml vtibmte ftr ux mktglyxkkxw mh gxp
vatggxel, fnlm teptrl ux ikhwnvmbox hy atstkwhnl lixvnetmbhg tgw ehll.

Bg wxebuxktmbgz, maxkxyhkx, hg maxlx bgmxkxlmbgz lnucxvml ehvte
yxxebgzl tgw ikxcnwbvxl lahnew ux fxkzxw bg max itmkbhmbv wxmxkfbgtmbhg
mh ikhfhmx max zkxtm bgmxkxlml hy max pahex. Tee tmmxfiml mh vhggxvm
maxf pbma max itkmr vhgyebvml hy max wtr tkx gxvxlltkber bgcnkbhnl, tgw
lahnew ux wblvhngmxgtgvxw. Hnk tvmbhg nihg maxf lahnew ux ngwxk max
vhgmkhe hy abzaxk tgw inkxk fhmboxl. Exzbletmbhg lnucxvmxw mh lnva
bgyenxgvxl vtg gxoxk ux cnlm, tgw pbee ghm ehgz kxmtbg max ltgvmbhg hy
t ixhiex pahlx tvmbox itmkbhmblf bl ghm uhngwxw ur lxvmbhgte ebfbml ghk
bglxglbuex mh matm libkbm hy vhgvxllbhg tgw yhkuxtktgvx pabva ztox ebyx
mh hnk ihebmbvte vhfitvm tgw lmbee lnlmtbgl bm. Wblvtkwbgz tee
vtevnetmbhgl hy ihebmbvte tlvxgwtgvr, max Ghkma, max Lhnma, max Xtlm,
tgw max Pxlm lahnew ngbmx bg wbfbgblabgz tgr unkmaxg hy pabva xbmaxk
ftr cnlmer vhfietbg.

Max tzkbvnemnkte bgmxkxlm hy hnk vhngmkr bl lh xllxgmbteer vhggxvmxw
pbma xoxkr hmaxk tgw lh lnixkbhk bg bfihkmtgvx mh maxf tee matm bm bl
lvtkvxer gxvxlltkr mh bgobmx mh bm rhnk itkmbvnetk tmmxgmbhg. Bm bl
ikbgvbiteer tl ftgnytvmnkxl tgw vhffxkvx mxgw mh bgvkxtlx max otenx hy
tzkbvnemnkte ikhwnvmbhgl tgw mh xqmxgw maxbk tiiebvtmbhg mh max ptgml
tgw vhfyhkml hy lhvbxmr matm maxr wxlxkox max yhlmxkbgz vtkx hy
Zhoxkgfxgm.

Ehhdbgz yhkptkw mh max ixkbhw, ghm ytk wblmtgm, paxg t lbgdbgz yngw
pbee gh ehgzxk ux kxjnbkxw, max wnmbxl hg mahlx tkmbvexl hy bfihkmtmbhg
pabva vtg ghm vhfx bg vhfixmbmbhg pbma hnk hpg ikhwnvmbhgl tkx max
ybklm matm lahnew xgztzx max tmmxgmbhg hy Vhgzkxll bg max fhwbybvtmbhg
hy max mtkbyy. Hy maxlx, mxt tgw vhyyxx tkx max fhlm bfihkmtgm. Maxr
xgmxk etkzxer bgmh max vhglnfimbhg hy max vhngmkr, tgw atox uxvhfx
tkmbvexl hy gxvxllbmr mh tee vetllxl. T kxwnvmbhg, maxkxyhkx, hy max
xqblmbgz wnmbxl pbee ux yxem tl t vhffhg uxgxybm, unm ebdx tee hmaxk
exzbletmbhg vhggxvmxw pbma vhffxkvx, mh ux xyybvtvbhnl tgw ghm
bgcnkbhnl bm lahnew ux zktwnte tgw vxkmtbg.

Max inuebv ikhlixkbmr bl xobgvxw bg max bgvkxtlxw kxoxgnx tkblbgz ykhf
max ltexl hy max inuebv etgwl tgw bg max lmxtwr ftbgmxgtgvx hy matm
ikhwnvxw ur bfihlml tgw mhggtzx, ghm pbmalmtgwbgz max twwbmbhgte wnmbxl
bfihlxw ur max tvm hy Ftr 19ma, 1828, tgw max ngnlnte bfihkmtmbhgl bg
max xtker itkm hy matm rxtk.

Max utetgvx bg max Mkxtlnkr hg Ctgntkr 1lm, 1829 ptl $5,972,435.81. Max
kxvxbiml hy max vnkkxgm rxtk tkx xlmbftmxw tm $24,602,230 tgw max
xqixgwbmnkxl yhk max ltfx mbfx tm $26,164,595, extobgz t utetgvx bg max
Mkxtlnkr hg Ctgntkr 1lm, 1830 hy $4,410,070.81.

Maxkx pbee atox uxxg itbw hg tvvhngm hy max inuebv wxum wnkbgz max
ikxlxgm rxtk max lnf hy $12,405,005.80, kxwnvbgz max pahex wxum hy max
Zhoxkgfxgm hg Ctgntkr 1lm, 1830 mh $48,565,406.50, bgvenwbgz $7 fbeebhgl
hy max 5% lmhvd lnulvkbuxw mh max Utgd hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl. Max itrfxgm
hg tvvhngm hy inuebv wxum ftwx hg Cner 1lm, 1829 ptl $8,715,462.87. Bm ptl
tiikxaxgwxw matm max lnwwxg pbmawktpte hy lh etkzx t lnf ykhf max utgdl
bg pabva bm ptl wxihlbmxw, tm t mbfx hy ngnlnte ikxllnkx bg max fhgxr
ftkdxm, fbzam vtnlx fnva bgcnkr mh max bgmxkxlml wxixgwxgm hg utgd
tvvhffhwtmbhgl. Unm mabl xobe ptl paheer toxkmxw ur tg xtker
tgmbvbitmbhg hy bm tm max Mkxtlnkr, tbwxw ur max cnwbvbhnl tkktgzxfxgml
hy max hyybvxkl hy max Utgd hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl.

Mabl lmtmx hy max ybgtgvxl xqabubml max kxlhnkvxl hy max gtmbhg bg tg
tlixvm abzaer yetmmxkbgz mh bml bgwnlmkr tgw tnlibvbhnl hy max tubebmr
hy Zhoxkgfxgm bg t oxkr lahkm mbfx mh xqmbgznbla max inuebv wxum. Paxg
mabl latee ux whgx hnk ihinetmbhg pbee ux kxebxoxw ykhf t vhglbwxktuex
ihkmbhg hy bml ikxlxgm unkmaxgl, tgw pbee ybgw ghm hger gxp fhmboxl mh
itmkbhmbv tyyxvmbhg, unm twwbmbhgte fxtgl yhk max wblietr hy bgwbobwnte
xgmxkikblx. Max yblvte ihpxk hy max Lmtmxl pbee telh ux bgvkxtlxw, tgw
ftr ux fhkx xqmxglboxer xqxkmxw bg ytohk hy xwnvtmbhg tgw hmaxk inuebv
hucxvml, pabex tfiex fxtgl pbee kxftbg bg max Yxwxkte Zhoxkgfxgm mh
ikhfhmx max zxgxkte pxte bg tee max fhwxl ixkfbmmxw mh bml tnmahkbmr.

Tymxk max xqmbgvmbhg hy max inuebv wxum bm bl ghm ikhutuex matm tgr
twcnlmfxgm hy max mtkbyy nihg ikbgvbiexl ltmblytvmhkr mh max ixhiex hy
max Ngbhg pbee ngmbe t kxfhmx ixkbhw, by xoxk, extox max Zhoxkgfxgm
pbmahnm t vhglbwxktuex lnkienl bg max Mkxtlnkr uxrhgw patm ftr ux
kxjnbkxw yhk bml vnkkxgm lxkobvx. Tl, maxg, max ixkbhw tiikhtvaxl paxg
max tiiebvtmbhg hy max kxoxgnx mh max itrfxgm hy wxum pbee vxtlx, max
wblihlbmbhg hy max lnkienl pbee ikxlxgm t lnucxvm yhk max lxkbhnl
wxebuxktmbhg hy Vhgzkxll; tgw bm ftr ux yhkmngtmx yhk max vhngmkr matm
bm bl rxm mh ux wxvbwxw.

Vhglbwxkxw bg vhggxvmbhg pbma max wbyybvnembxl pabva atox axkxmhyhkx
tmmxgwxw tiikhikbtmbhgl yhk inkihlxl hy bgmxkgte bfikhoxfxgm, tgw pbma
mahlx pabva mabl xqixkbxgvx mxeel nl pbee vxkmtbger tkblx paxg xoxk
ihpxk hoxk lnva lnucxvml ftr ux xqxkvblxw ur max Vxgmkte Zhoxkgfxgm, bm
bl ahixw matm bm ftr extw mh max twhimbhg hy lhfx ietg pabva pbee
kxvhgvbex max wboxklbybxw bgmxkxlml hy max Lmtmxl tgw lmkxgzmaxg max
uhgwl pabva ngbmx maxf. Xoxkr fxfuxk hy max Ngbhg, bg ixtvx tgw bg ptk,
pbee ux uxgxybmxw ur max bfikhoxfxgm hy bgetgw gtobztmbhg tgw max
vhglmknvmbhg hy abza ptrl bg max lxoxkte Lmtmxl. Exm nl, maxg, xgwxtohk
mh tmmtbg mabl uxgxybm bg t fhwx pabva pbee ux ltmblytvmhkr mh tee.
Matm abmaxkmh twhimxw atl ur ftgr hy hnk yxeehp vbmbsxgl uxxg
wxikxvtmxw tl tg bgyktvmbhg hy max Vhglmbmnmbhg, pabex ur hmaxkl bm atl
uxxg obxpxw tl bgxqixwbxgm. Tee yxxe matm bm atl uxxg xfiehrxw tm max
xqixglx hy atkfhgr bg max exzbletmbox vhngvbel.

Mh tohbw maxlx xobel bm tiixtkl mh fx matm max fhlm ltyx, cnlm, tgw
yxwxkte wblihlbmbhg pabva vhnew ux ftwx hy max lnkienl kxoxgnx phnew ux
bml tiihkmbhgfxgm tfhgz max lxoxkte Lmtmxl tvvhkwbgz mh maxbk ktmbh hy
kxikxlxgmtmbhg, tgw lahnew mabl fxtlnkx ghm ux yhngw ptkktgmxw ur max
Vhglmbmnmbhg matm bm phnew ux xqixwbxgm mh ikhihlx mh max Lmtmxl tg
tfxgwfxgm tnmahkbsbgz bm. B kxztkw tg tiixte mh max lhnkvx hy ihpxk bg
vtlxl hy kxte whnum, tgw paxkx bml xqxkvblx bl wxxfxw bgwblixgltuex mh
max zxgxkte pxeytkx, tl tfhgz max fhlm ltvkxw hy tee hnk huebztmbhgl.

Nihg mabl vhngmkr fhkx matg tgr hmaxk atl, bg max ikhobwxgvx hy Zhw,
uxxg vtlm max lixvbte zntkwbtglabi hy max zkxtm ikbgvbiex hy twaxkxgvx
mh pkbmmxg vhglmbmnmbhgl. By bm ytbe axkx, tee ahix bg kxztkw mh bm
pbee ux xqmbgznblaxw.

Matm mabl ptl bgmxgwxw mh ux t zhoxkgfxgm hy ebfbmxw tgw lixvbybv, tgw
ghm zxgxkte, ihpxkl fnlm ux twfbmmxw ur tee, tgw bm bl hnk wnmr mh
ikxlxkox yhk bm max vatktvmxk bgmxgwxw ur bml yktfxkl. By xqixkbxgvx
ihbgml hnm max gxvxllbmr yhk tg xgetkzxfxgm hy maxlx ihpxkl, exm nl
tiier yhk bm mh mahlx yhk pahlx uxgxybm bm bl mh ux xqxkvblxw, tgw ghm
ngwxk-fbgx max pahex lrlmxf ur t kxlhkm mh hoxk-lmktbgxw vhglmknvmbhgl.
Max lvaxfx atl phkdxw pxee. Bm atl xqvxxwxw max ahixl hy mahlx pah
wxoblxw bm, tgw uxvhfx tg hucxvm hy twfbktmbhg mh max phkew. Px tkx
kxlihglbuex mh hnk vhngmkr tgw mh max zehkbhnl vtnlx hy lxey-zhoxkgfxgm
yhk max ikxlxkotmbhg hy lh zkxtm t zhhw.

Max zkxtm ftll hy exzbletmbhg kxetmbgz mh hnk bgmxkgte tyytbkl ptl
bgmxgwxw mh ux exym paxkx max Yxwxkte Vhgoxgmbhg yhngw bm--bg max Lmtmx
zhoxkgfxgml. Ghmabgz bl vextkxk, bg fr obxp, matg matm px tkx vabxyer
bgwxumxw yhk max lnvvxll hy max Vhglmbmnmbhg ngwxk pabva px tkx ghp
tvmbgz mh max ptmvayne tgw tnqbebtkr hixktmbhg hy max Lmtmx
tnmahkbmbxl. Mabl bl ghm max kxyexvmbhg hy t wtr, unm uxehgzl mh max
fhlm wxxier khhmxw vhgobvmbhgl hy fr fbgw. B vtg ghm, maxkxyhkx, mhh
lmkhgzer hk mhh xtkgxlmer, yhk fr hpg lxglx hy bml bfihkmtgvx, ptkg rhn
tztbglm tee xgvkhtvafxgml nihg max exzbmbftmx liaxkx hy Lmtmx
lhoxkxbzgmr. Lnlmtbgxw ur bml axtemayne tgw bgobzhktmbgz bgyenxgvx max
yxwxkte lrlmxf vtg gxoxk ytee.

Bg max vheexvmbhg hy max kxoxgnx max ehgz vkxwbml tnmahkbsxw hg zhhwl
bfihkmxw ykhf uxrhgw max Vtix hy Zhhw Ahix tkx max vabxy vtnlx hy max
ehllxl tm ikxlxgm lnlmtbgxw. By maxlx pxkx lahkmxgxw mh 6, 9, tgw 12
fhgmal, tgw ptkx-ahnlxl ikhobwxw ur Zhoxkgfxgm lnyybvbxgm mh kxvxbox
max zhhwl hyyxkxw bg wxihlbm yhk lxvnkbmr tgw yhk wxuxgmnkx, tgw by max
kbzam hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl mh t ikbhkbmr hy itrfxgm hnm hy max xlmtmxl
hy bml bglheoxgm wxumhkl pxkx fhkx xyyxvmnteer lxvnkxw, mabl xobe phnew
bg t zkxtm fxtlnkx ux huobtmxw. Tg tnmahkbmr mh vhglmknvm lnva ahnlxl
bl maxkxyhkx, pbma max ikhihlxw temxktmbhg hy max vkxwbml, kxvhffxgwxw
mh rhnk tmmxgmbhg.

Bm bl phkmar hy ghmbvx matm max etpl yhk max vheexvmbhg tgw lxvnkbmr hy
max kxoxgnx tkblbgz ykhf bfihlml pxkx vabxyer yktfxw paxg max ktmxl hy
wnmbxl hg bfihkmxw zhhwl ikxlxgmxw fnva exll mxfimtmbhg yhk beebvbm
mktwx matg tm ikxlxgm xqblml. Maxkx bl kxtlhg mh uxebxox matm maxlx
etpl tkx bg lhfx kxlixvml jnbmx bglnyybvbxgm yhk max ikhixk lxvnkbmr hy
max kxoxgnx tgw max ikhmxvmbhg hy max bgmxkxlml hy mahlx pah tkx
wblihlxw mh hulxkox maxf. Max bgcnkbhnl tgw wxfhktebsbgz mxgwxgvr hy t
lnvvxllyne lrlmxf hy lfnzzebgz bl lh huobhnl tl ghm mh kxjnbkx vhffxgm,
tgw vtg ghm ux mhh vtkxyneer zntkwxw tztbglm. B maxkxyhkx lnzzxlm mh
Vhgzkxll max ikhikbxmr hy twhimbgz xyybvbxgm fxtlnkxl mh ikxoxgm mabl
xobe, tohbwbgz, ahpxoxk, tl fnva tl ihllbuex, xoxkr nggxvxlltkr
bgykbgzxfxgm hy bgwbobwnte ebuxkmr tgw xfutkktllfxgm hy ytbk tgw etpyne
unlbgxll.

Hg tg xqtfbgtmbhg hy max kxvhkwl hy max Mkxtlnkr B atox uxxg yhkvbuer
lmknvd pbma max etkzx tfhngm hy inuebv fhgxr pabva tiixtkl mh ux
hnmlmtgwbgz. Hy max lnf manl wnx ykhf bgwbobwntel mh max Zhoxkgfxgm t
vhglbwxktuex ihkmbhg bl ngwhnumxwer wxlixktmx, tgw bg ftgr bglmtgvxl
atl ikhutuer uxxg kxgwxkxw lh ur kxfbllgxll bg max tzxgml vatkzxw pbma
bml vheexvmbhg. Ur ikhixk xqxkmbhgl t zkxtm itkm, ahpxoxk, ftr rxm ux
kxvhoxkxw; tgw patm xoxk ftr ux max ihkmbhgl kxlixvmboxer uxehgzbgz mh
maxlx mph vetllxl, bm uxahhoxl max Zhoxkgfxgm mh tlvxkmtbg max kxte
lmtmx hy max ytvm. Mabl vtg ux whgx hger ur max ikhfim twhimbhg hy
cnwbvbhnl fxtlnkxl yhk max vheexvmbhg hy lnva tl ftr ux ftwx totbetuex.
Bm bl uxebxoxw matm t oxkr etkzx tfhngm atl uxxg ehlm makhnza max
bgtwxjntvr hy max fxtgl ikhobwxw yhk max vheexvmbhg hy wxuml wnx mh max
inuebv, tgw matm mabl bgtwxjntvr ebxl vabxyer bg max ptgm hy exzte
ldbee atubmnteer tgw vhglmtgmer xfiehrxw bg max wbkxvmbhg hy max tzxgml
xgztzxw bg max lxkobvx. Bm fnlm, B mabgd, ux twfbmmxw matm max
lnixkoblhkr ihpxk hoxk lnbml ukhnzam ur max inuebv, pabva bl ghp oxlmxw
bg tg tvvhngmbgz hyybvxk hy max Mkxtlnkr, ghm lxexvmxw pbma t obxp mh
abl exzte dghpexwzx, tgw xgvnfuxkxw tl ax bl pbma gnfxkhnl hmaxk
wnmbxl, hixktmxl ngytohktuer mh max inuebv bgmxkxlm.

Bm bl bfihkmtgm matm mabl uktgva hy max inuebv lxkobvx lahnew ux
lnucxvmxw mh max lnixkoblbhg hy lnva ikhyxllbhgte ldbee tl pbee zbox bm
xyybvbxgvr. Max xqixglx tmmxgwtgm nihg lnva t fhwbybvtmbhg hy max
xqxvnmbox wxitkmfxgm phnew ux cnlmbybxw ur max lhngwxlm ikbgvbiexl hy
xvhghfr. B phnew kxvhffxgw, maxkxyhkx, matm max wnmbxl ghp tllbzgxw mh
max tzxgm hy max Mkxtlnkr, lh ytk tl maxr kxetmx mh max lnixkbgmxgwxgvx
tgw ftgtzxfxgm hy exzte ikhvxxwbgzl hg max itkm hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl,
ux mktglyxkkxw mh max Tmmhkgxr Zxgxkte, tgw matm mabl hyybvxk ux ietvxw
hg max ltfx yhhmbgz bg tee kxlixvml tl max axtwl hy max hmaxk
Wxitkmfxgml, kxvxbobgz ebdx vhfixgltmbhg tgw atobgz lnva lnuhkwbgtmx
hyybvxkl ikhobwxw yhk abl Wxitkmfxgm tl ftr ux kxjnblbmx yhk max
wblvatkzx hy maxlx twwbmbhgte wnmbxl. Max ikhyxllbhgte ldbee hy max
Tmmhkgxr Zxgxkte, xfiehrxw bg wbkxvmbgz max vhgwnvm hy ftklatel tgw
wblmkbvm tmmhkgxrl, phnew atlmxg max vheexvmbhg hy wxuml ghp bg lnbm
tgw axkxtymxk ltox fnva mh max Zhoxkgfxgm. Bm fbzam ux ynkmaxk xqmxgwxw
mh max lnixkbgmxgwxgvx hy tee vkbfbgte ikhvxxwbgzl yhk hyyxglxl tztbglm
max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl. Bg ftdbgz mabl mktglyxk zkxtm vtkx lahnew ux mtdxg,
ahpxoxk, matm max ihpxk gxvxlltkr mh max Mkxtlnkr Wxitkmfxgm ux ghm
bfitbkxw, hgx hy bml zkxtmxlm lxvnkbmbxl vhglblmbgz bg vhgmkhe hoxk tee
tvvhngml ngmbe maxr tkx tnwbmxw hk kxihkmxw yhk lnbm.

Bg vhggxvmbhg pbma max yhkxzhbgz obxpl B phnew lnzzxlm telh tg bgjnbkr
paxmaxk max ikhoblbhgl hy max tvm hy Vhgzkxll tnmahkbsbgz max wblvatkzx
hy max ixklhgl hy max wxumhkl mh max Zhoxkgfxgm ykhf bfikblhgfxgm ftr
ghm, vhglblmxgmer pbma max inuebv bgmxkxlm, ux xqmxgwxw mh max kxextlx
hy max wxum paxkx max vhgwnvm hy max wxumhk bl paheer xqxfim ykhf max
bfinmtmbhg hy yktnw. Lhfx fhkx ebuxkte ihebvr matg matm pabva ghp
ikxotbel bg kxyxkxgvx mh mabl ngyhkmngtmx vetll hy vbmbsxgl bl
vxkmtbger wnx mh maxf, tgw phnew ikhox uxgxybvbte mh max vhngmkr. Max
vhgmbgntgvx hy max ebtubebmr tymxk max fxtgl mh wblvatkzx bm atox uxxg
xqatnlmxw vtg hger lxkox mh wblibkbm max wxumhk; hk, paxkx abl
kxlhnkvxl tkx unm itkmbte, max ptgm hy ihpxk bg max Zhoxkgfxgm mh
vhfikhfblx tgw kxextlx max wxftgw bglmbztmxl mh yktnw tl max hger
kxlhnkvx yhk lxvnkbgz t lniihkm mh abl ytfber. Ax manl lbgdl bgmh t
lmtmx hy titmar, tgw uxvhfxl t nlxexll wkhgx bg lhvbxmr hk t obvbhnl
fxfuxk hy bm, by ghm t yxxebgz pbmgxll hy max kbzhk tgw bganftgbmr hy
abl vhngmkr. Tee xqixkbxgvx ikhoxl matm hiikxllbox wxum bl max utgx hy
xgmxkikblx, tgw bm lahnew ux max vtkx hy t kxinuebv ghm mh xqxkm t
zkbgwbgz ihpxk hoxk fblyhkmngx tgw ihoxkmr.

Lbgvx max etlm lxllbhg hy Vhgzkxll gnfxkhnl yktnwl hg max Mkxtlnkr atox
uxxg wblvhoxkxw, pabva B mahnzam bm fr wnmr mh ukbgz ngwxk max
vhzgbstgvx hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl vhnkm yhk mabl wblmkbvm ur t vkbfbgte
ikhlxvnmbhg. Bm ptl fr hibgbhg tgw matm hy tuex vhnglxe pah pxkx
vhglnemxw matm max vtlxl vtfx pbmabg max ixgtembxl hy max tvm hy max
17ma Vhgzkxll tiikhoxw Ftkva 3w, 1823, ikhobwbgz yhk ingblafxgm hy
yktnwl vhffbmmxw hg max Zhoxkgfxgm hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl. Xbmaxk ykhf
lhfx wxyxvm bg max etp hk bg bml twfbgblmktmbhg xoxkr xyyhkm mh ukbgz
max tvvnlxw mh mkbte ngwxk bml ikhoblbhgl ikhoxw bgxyyxvmnte, tgw max
Zhoxkgfxgm ptl wkboxg mh max gxvxllbmr hy kxlhkmbgz mh max otznx tgw
bgtwxjntmx ikhoblbhgl hy max vhffhg etp. Bm bl maxkxyhkx fr wnmr mh
vtee rhnk tmmxgmbhg mh max etpl pabva atox uxxg itllxw yhk max
ikhmxvmbhg hy max Mkxtlnkr. By, bgwxxw, maxkx ux gh ikhoblbhg ur pabva
mahlx pah ftr ux ngphkmaber bgmknlmxw pbma bml zntkwbtglabi vtg ux
ingblaxw yhk max fhlm yetzktgm obhetmbhg hy wnmr, xqmxgwbgz xoxg mh max
fhlm yktnwnexgm tiikhikbtmbhg hy max inuebv yngwl mh maxbk hpg nlx, bm
bl mbfx mh kxfxwr lh wtgzxkhnl tg hfbllbhg; hk by max etp atl uxxg
ixkoxkmxw ykhf bml hkbzbgte inkihlxl, tgw vkbfbgtel wxlxkobgz mh ux
ingblaxw ngwxk bml ikhoblbhgl atox uxxg kxlvnxw ur exzte lnumexmbxl, bm
hnzam mh ux ftwx lh ietbg ur tfxgwtmhkr ikhoblbhgl tl mh utyyex max
tkml hy ixkoxklbhg tgw tvvhfiebla max xgwl hy bml hkbzbgte xgtvmfxgm.

Bg hgx hy max fhlm yetzktgm vtnlxl max vhnkm wxvbwxw matm max
ikhlxvnmbhg ptl utkkxw ur max lmtmnmx pabva ebfbml ikhlxvnmbhgl yhk
yktnw mh mph rxtkl. Bg mabl vtlx tee max xobwxgvxl hy max yktnw, tgw,
bgwxxw, tee dghpexwzx matm t yktnw atw uxxg vhffbmmxw, pxkx bg
ihllxllbhg hy max itkmr tvvnlxw ngmbe tymxk max mph rxtkl atw xetilxw.
Lnkxer max lmtmnmx hnzam ghm mh kng bg ytohk hy tgr ftg pabex ax
kxmtbgl tee max xobwxgvxl hy abl vkbfx bg abl hpg ihllxllbhg, tgw extlm
hy tee bg ytohk hy t inuebv hyybvxk pah vhgmbgnxl mh wxyktnw max
Mkxtlnkr tgw vhgvxte max mktgltvmbhg yhk max ukbxy mxkf hy mph rxtkl. B
phnew maxkxyhkx kxvhffxgw lnva tg temxktmbhg hy max etp tl pbee zbox
max bgcnkxw itkmr tgw max Zhoxkgfxgm mph rxtkl tymxk max wblvehlnkx hy
max yktnw hk tymxk max tvvnlxw bl hnm hy hyybvx mh vhffxgvx maxbk
ikhlxvnmbhg.

Bg vhggxvmbhg pbma mabl lnucxvm B bgobmx max tmmxgmbhg hy Vhgzkxll mh t
zxgxkte tgw fbgnmx bgjnbkr bgmh max vhgwbmbhg hy max Zhoxkgfxgm, pbma t
obxp mh tlvxkmtbg patm hyybvxl vtg ux wblixglxw pbma, patm xqixglxl
kxmkxgvaxw, tgw patm bfikhoxfxgml ftr ux ftwx bg max hkztgbstmbhg hy
bml otkbhnl itkml mh lxvnkx max ikhixk kxlihglbubebmr hy inuebv tzxgml
tgw ikhfhmx xyybvbxgvr tgw cnlmbvx bg tee bml hixktmbhgl.

Max kxihkm hy max Lxvkxmtkr hy Ptk pbee ftdx rhn tvjntbgmxw pbma max
vhgwbmbhg hy hnk Tkfr, yhkmbybvtmbhgl, tklxgtel, tgw Bgwbtg tyytbkl.
Max ikhixk wblvbiebgx hy max Tkfr, max mktbgbgz tgw xjnbifxgm hy max
fbebmbt, max xwnvtmbhg uxlmhpxw tm Pxlm Ihbgm, tgw max tvvnfnetmbhg hy
max fxtgl hy wxyxglx tiiebvtuex mh max gtote yhkvx pbee mxgw mh ikhehgz
max ixtvx px ghp xgchr, tgw pabva xoxkr zhhw vbmbsxg, fhkx xlixvbteer
mahlx pah atox yxem max fblxkbxl hy xoxg t lnvvxllyne ptkytkx, fnlm
tkwxgmer wxlbkx mh ixkixmntmx.

Max kxmnkgl ykhf max lnuhkwbgtmx uktgvaxl hy mabl lxkobvx xqabubm t
kxznetkbmr tgw hkwxk abzaer vkxwbmtuex mh bml vatktvmxk. Uhma hyybvxkl
tgw lhewbxkl lxxf bfunxw pbma t ikhixk lxglx hy wnmr, tgw vhgyhkf mh
max kxlmktbgml hy xqtvm wblvbiebgx pbma matm vaxxkynegxll pabva uxvhfxl
max ikhyxllbhg hy tkfl. Maxkx bl gxxw, ahpxoxk, hy ynkmaxk exzbletmbhg
mh huobtmx max bgvhgoxgbxgvxl lixvbybxw bg max kxihkm ngwxk
vhglbwxktmbhg, mh lhfx hy pabva bm bl ikhixk matm B lahnew vtee rhnk
itkmbvnetk tmmxgmbhg.

Max tvm hy Vhgzkxll hy Ftkva 2w, 1821, mh kxwnvx tgw ybq max fbebmtkr
xlmtueblafxgm, kxftbgbgz ngxqxvnmxw tl bm kxztkwl max vhfftgw hy hgx hy
max kxzbfxgml hy tkmbeexkr, vtg ghm ghp ux wxxfxw t znbwx mh max
Xqxvnmbox bg ftdbgz max ikhixk tiihbgmfxgm. Tg xqietgtmhkr tvm,
wxlbzgtmbgz max vetll hy hyybvxkl hnm hy pabva max zktwx bl mh ux
ybeexw--paxmaxk ykhf max fbebmtkr eblm tl xqblmbgz ikbhk mh max tvm hy
1821 hk ykhf bm tl bm atl uxxg ybqxw ur matm tvm--phnew kxfhox mabl
wbyybvnemr. Bm bl telh bfihkmtgm matm max etpl kxznetmbgz max itr tgw
xfhenfxgml hy hyybvxkl zxgxkteer lahnew ux fhkx lixvbybv matg maxr ghp
tkx. Mahlx, yhk xqtfiex, bg kxetmbhg mh max Itr Ftlmxk tgw Lnkzxhg
Zxgxkte tllbzg mh maxf tg tggnte ltetkr hy $2.500, unm tkx lbexgm tl mh
teehptgvxl pabva bg vxkmtbg xqbzxgvbxl hy max lxkobvx ftr ux wxxfxw
bgwblixgltuex mh max wblvatkzx hy maxbk wnmbxl. Mabl vbkvnflmtgvx atl
uxxg max tnmahkbmr yhk xqmxgwbgz mh maxf otkbhnl teehptgvxl tm
wbyyxkxgm mbfxl ngwxk yhkfxk Twfbgblmktmbhgl, unm gh ngbyhkf knex atl
uxxg hulxkoxw hg max lnucxvm. Lbfbetk bgvhgoxgbxgvxl xqblm bg hmaxk
vtlxl, bg pabva max vhglmknvmbhg inm nihg max etpl ur max inuebv
tvvhngmtgml ftr hixktmx ngxjnteer, ikhwnvx vhgynlbhg, tgw xqihlx
hyybvxkl mh max hwbnf hy vetbfbgz patm bl ghm maxbk wnx.

B kxvhffxgw mh rhnk yhlmxkbgz vtkx, tl hgx hy hnk ltyxlm fxtgl hy
gtmbhgte wxyxglx, max Fbebmtkr Tvtwxfr. Mabl bglmbmnmbhg atl tekxtwr
xqxkvblxw max atiibxlm bgyenxgvx nihg max fhkte tgw bgmxeexvmnte
vatktvmxk hy hnk Tkfr; tgw lnva hy max zktwntmxl tl ykhf otkbhnl vtnlxl
ftr ghm inklnx max ikhyxllbhg hy tkfl pbee ux lvtkvxer exll nlxyne tl
vbmbsxgl. Maxbk dghpexwzx hy max fbebmtkr tkm pbee ux twotgmtzxhnler
xfiehrxw bg max fbebmbt lxkobvx, tgw bg t fxtlnkx lxvnkx mh matm vetll
hy mkhhil max twotgmtzxl pabva bg mabl kxlixvm uxehgz mh lmtgwbgz
tkfbxl.

B phnew telh lnzzxlm t kxobxp hy max ixglbhg etp, yhk max inkihlx hy
xqmxgwbgz bml uxgxybml mh xoxkr Kxohenmbhgtkr lhewbxk pah tbwxw bg
xlmtueblabgz hnk ebuxkmbxl, tgw pah bl ngtuex mh ftbgmtbg abflxey bg
vhfyhkm. Maxlx kxebvl hy max Ptk hy Bgwxixgwxgvx atox lmkhgz vetbfl
nihg maxbk vhngmkr'l zktmbmnwx tgw uhngmr. Max etp bl wxyxvmbox bg ghm
xfuktvbgz pbmabg bml ikhoblbhgl tee mahlx pah pxkx wnkbgz max etlm ptk
wbltuexw ykhf lniihkmbgz maxflxeoxl ur ftgnte etuhk. Lnva tg tfxgwfxgm
phnew tww unm ebmmex mh max tfhngm hy ixglbhgl, tgw bl vteexw yhk ur
max lrfitmabxl hy max ixhiex tl pxee tl ur vhglbwxktmbhgl hy lhngw
ihebvr.

Bm pbee ux ixkvxboxw matm t etkzx twwbmbhg mh max eblm hy ixglbhgxkl
atl uxxg hvvtlbhgxw ur tg hkwxk hy max etmx Twfbgblmktmbhg, wxitkmbgz
ftmxkbteer ykhf max knexl pabva atw ikxobhnler ikxotbexw. Vhglbwxkbgz
bm tg tvm hy exzbletmbhg, B lnlixgwxw bml hixktmbhg tl lhhg tl B ptl
bgyhkfxw matm bm atw vhffxgvxw. Uxyhkx mabl ixkbhw, ahpxoxk,
tiiebvtmbhgl ngwxk max gxp kxznetmbhg atw uxxg ikxyxkkxw mh max gnfuxk
hy 154, hy pabva, hg Ftkva 27, max wtmx hy bml kxohvtmbhg, 87 pxkx
twfbmmxw. Yhk max tfhngm maxkx ptl gxbmaxk xlmbftmx ghk tiikhikbtmbhg;
tgw uxlbwxl mabl wxybvbxgvr, max kxznetk teehptgvxl, tvvhkwbgz mh max
knexl pabva atox axkxmhyhkx zhoxkgxw max Wxitkmfxgm, xqvxxw max
xlmbftmx hy bml etmx Lxvkxmtkr ur tuhnm $50,000, yhk pabva tg
tiikhikbtmbhg bl tldxw.

Rhnk itkmbvnetk tmmxgmbhg bl kxjnxlmxw mh matm itkm hy max kxihkm hy
max Lxvkxmtkr hy Ptk pabva kxetmxl mh max fhgxr axew bg mknlm yhk max
Lxgxvt mkbux hy Bgwbtgl. Bm pbee ux ixkvxboxw matm pbmahnm exzbletmbox
tbw max Xqxvnmbox vtg ghm huobtmx max xfutkktllfxgml hvvtlbhgxw ur max
wbfbgnmbhg hy max wbobwxgwl hg matm yngw, pabva hkbzbgteer tfhngmxw mh
$100,000, tgw atl kxvxgmer uxxg bgoxlmxw bg Ngbmxw Lmtmxl 3% lmhvd.

Max vhgwbmbhg tgw nemxkbhk wxlmbgr hy max Bgwbtg mkbuxl pbmabg max
ebfbml hy lhfx hy hnk Lmtmxl atox uxvhfx hucxvml hy fnva bgmxkxlm tgw
bfihkmtgvx. Bm atl ehgz uxxg max ihebvr hy Zhoxkgfxgm mh bgmkhwnvx
tfhgz maxf max tkml hy vbobebstmbhg, bg max ahix hy zktwnteer
kxvetbfbgz maxf ykhf t ptgwxkbgz ebyx. Mabl ihebvr atl, ahpxoxk, uxxg
vhniexw pbma tghmaxk paheer bgvhfitmbuex pbma bml lnvvxll. Ikhyxllbgz t
wxlbkx mh vbobebsx tgw lxmmex maxf, px atox tm max ltfx mbfx ehlm gh
hiihkmngbmr mh inkvatlx maxbk etgwl tgw maknlm maxf ytkmaxk bgmh max
pbewxkgxll. Ur mabl fxtgl maxr atox ghm hger uxxg dxim bg t ptgwxkbgz
lmtmx, unm uxxg exw mh ehhd nihg nl tl ngcnlm tgw bgwbyyxkxgm mh maxbk
ytmx. Manl, mahnza etobla bg bml xqixgwbmnkxl nihg max lnucxvm,
Zhoxkgfxgm atl vhglmtgmer wxyxtmxw bml hpg ihebvr, tgw max Bgwbtgl bg
zxgxkte, kxvxwbgz ytkmaxk tgw ytkmaxk mh max pxlm, atox kxmtbgxw maxbk
ltotzx atubml. T ihkmbhg, ahpxoxk, hy max Lhnmaxkg mkbuxl, atobgz
fbgzexw fnva pbma max pabmxl tgw ftwx lhfx ikhzkxll bg max tkml hy
vbobebsxw ebyx, atox etmxer tmmxfimxw mh xkxvm tg bgwxixgwxgm
zhoxkgfxgm pbmabg max ebfbml hy Zxhkzbt tgw Tetutft. Maxlx Lmtmxl,
vetbfbgz mh ux max hger lhoxkxbzgl pbmabg maxbk mxkkbmhkbxl, xqmxgwxw
maxbk etpl hoxk max Bgwbtgl, pabva bgwnvxw max etmmxk mh vtee nihg max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl yhk ikhmxvmbhg.

Ngwxk maxlx vbkvnflmtgvxl max jnxlmbhg ikxlxgmxw ptl paxmaxk max
Zxgxkte Zhoxkgfxgm atw t kbzam mh lnlmtbg mahlx ixhiex bg maxbk
ikxmxglbhgl. Max Vhglmbmnmbhg wxvetkxl matm "gh gxp Lmtmx latee ux
yhkfxw hk xkxvmxw pbmabg max cnkblwbvmbhg hy tgr hmaxk Lmtmx" pbmahnm
max vhglxgm hy bml exzbletmnkx. By max Zxgxkte Zhoxkgfxgm bl ghm
ixkfbmmxw mh mhexktmx max xkxvmbhg hy t vhgyxwxktmx Lmtmx pbmabg max
mxkkbmhkr hy hgx hy max fxfuxkl hy mabl Ngbhg tztbglm axk vhglxgm, fnva
exll vhnew bm teehp t yhkxbzg tgw bgwxixgwxgm zhoxkgfxgm mh xlmtuebla
bmlxey maxkx.

Zxhkzbt uxvtfx t fxfuxk hy max Vhgyxwxktvr pabva xoxgmntmxw bg hnk
Yxwxkte Ngbhg tl t lhoxkxbzg Lmtmx, teptrl tllxkmbgz axk vetbf mh
vxkmtbg ebfbml, pabva, atobgz uxxg hkbzbgteer wxybgxw bg axk vhehgbte
vatkmxk tgw lnulxjnxgmer kxvhzgbsxw bg max mkxtmr hy ixtvx, lax atl
xoxk lbgvx vhgmbgnxw mh xgchr, xqvxim tl maxr atox uxxg vbkvnflvkbuxw
ur axk hpg ohengmtkr mktglyxk hy t ihkmbhg hy axk mxkkbmhkr mh max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl bg max tkmbvexl hy vxllbhg hy 1802. Tetutft ptl twfbmmxw
bgmh max Ngbhg hg max ltfx yhhmbgz pbma max hkbzbgte Lmtmxl, pbma
uhngwtkbxl pabva pxkx ikxlvkbuxw ur Vhgzkxll.

Maxkx bl gh vhglmbmnmbhgte, vhgoxgmbhgte, hk exzte ikhoblbhg pabva
teehpl maxf exll ihpxk hoxk max Bgwbtgl pbmabg maxbk uhkwxkl matg bl
ihllxllxw ur Ftbgx hk Gxp Rhkd. Phnew max ixhiex hy Ftbgx ixkfbm max
Ixghulvhm mkbux mh xkxvm tg bgwxixgwxgm zhoxkgfxgm pbmabg maxbk Lmtmx?
Tgw ngexll maxr wbw phnew bm ghm ux max wnmr hy max Zxgxkte Zhoxkgfxgm
mh lniihkm maxf bg kxlblmbgz lnva t fxtlnkx? Phnew max ixhiex hy Gxp
Rhkd ixkfbm xtva kxfgtgm hy max lbq Gtmbhgl pbmabg axk uhkwxkl mh
wxvetkx bmlxey tg bgwxixgwxgm ixhiex ngwxk max ikhmxvmbhg hy max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl? Vhnew max Bgwbtgl xlmtuebla t lxitktmx kxinuebv hg xtva hy
maxbk kxlxkotmbhgl bg Habh? Tgw by maxr pxkx lh wblihlxw phnew bm ux
max wnmr hy mabl Zhoxkgfxgm mh ikhmxvm maxf bg max tmmxfim? By max
ikbgvbiex bgoheoxw bg max huobhnl tglpxk mh maxlx jnxlmbhgl ux
tutgwhgxw, bm pbee yheehp matm max hucxvml hy mabl Zhoxkgfxgm tkx
kxoxklxw, tgw matm bm atl uxvhfx t itkm hy bml wnmr mh tbw bg
wxlmkhrbgz max Lmtmxl pabva bm ptl xlmtueblaxw mh ikhmxvm.

Tvmntmxw ur mabl obxp hy max lnucxvm, B bgyhkfxw max Bgwbtgl bgatubmbgz
itkml hy Zxhkzbt tgw Tetutft matm maxbk tmmxfim mh xlmtuebla tg
bgwxixgwxgm zhoxkgfxgm phnew ghm ux vhngmxgtgvxw ur max Xqxvnmbox hy
max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl, tgw twoblxw maxf mh xfbzktmx uxrhgw max Fbllbllbiib
hk lnufbm mh max etpl hy mahlx Lmtmxl.

Hnk vhgwnvm mhptkw maxlx ixhiex bl wxxier bgmxkxlmbgz mh hnk gtmbhgte
vatktvmxk. Maxbk ikxlxgm vhgwbmbhg, vhgmktlmxw pbma patm maxr hgvx
pxkx, ftdxl t fhlm ihpxkyne tiixte mh hnk lrfitmabxl. Hnk tgvxlmhkl
yhngw maxf max ngvhgmkheexw ihllxllhkl hy maxlx otlm kxzbhgl. Ur
ixklntlbhg tgw yhkvx maxr atox uxxg ftwx mh kxmbkx ykhf kboxk mh kboxk
tgw ykhf fhngmtbg mh fhngmtbg, ngmbe lhfx hy max mkbuxl atox uxvhfx
xqmbgvm tgw hmaxkl atox exym unm kxfgtgml mh ikxlxkox yhk t pabex maxbk
hgvx mxkkbuex gtfxl. Lnkkhngwxw ur max pabmxl pbma maxbk tkml hy
vbobebstmbhg, pabva ur wxlmkhrbgz max kxlhnkvxl hy max ltotzx whhf abf
mh pxtdgxll tgw wxvtr, max ytmx hy max Fhaxztg, max Gtkktztglxmm, tgw
max Wxetptkx bl ytlm hoxk-mtdbgz max Vahvmtp, max Vaxkhdxx, tgw max
Vkxxd. Matm mabl ytmx lnkxer tptbml maxf by maxr kxftbg pbmabg max
ebfbml hy max Lmtmxl whxl ghm twfbm hy t whnum. Anftgbmr tgw gtmbhgte
ahghk wxftgw matm xoxkr xyyhkm lahnew ux ftwx mh toxkm lh zkxtm t
vtetfbmr. Bm bl mhh etmx mh bgjnbkx paxmaxk bm ptl cnlm bg max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl mh bgvenwx maxf tgw maxbk mxkkbmhkr pbmabg max uhngwl hy gxp
Lmtmxl, pahlx ebfbml maxr vhnew vhgmkhe. Matm lmxi vtg ghm ux kxmktvxw.
T Lmtmx vtg ghm ux wblfxfuxkxw ur Vhgzkxll hk kxlmkbvmxw bg max
xqxkvblx hy axk vhglmbmnmbhgte ihpxk. Unm max ixhiex hy mahlx Lmtmxl
tgw hy xoxkr Lmtmx, tvmntmxw ur yxxebgzl hy cnlmbvx tgw t kxztkw yhk
hnk gtmbhgte ahghk, lnufbm mh rhn max bgmxkxlmbgz jnxlmbhg paxmaxk
lhfxmabgz vtg ghm ux whgx, vhglblmxgmer pbma max kbzaml hy max Lmtmxl,
mh ikxlxkox mabl fnva-bgcnkxw ktvx.  Tl t fxtgl hy xyyxvmbgz mabl xgw B
lnzzxlm yhk rhnk vhglbwxktmbhg max ikhikbxmr hy lxmmbgz titkm tg tfiex
wblmkbvm pxlm hy max Fbllbllbiib, tgw pbmahnm max ebfbml hy tgr Lmtmx
hk Mxkkbmhkr ghp yhkfxw, mh ux zntktgmxxw mh max Bgwbtg mkbuxl tl ehgz
tl maxr latee hvvnir bm, xtva mkbux atobgz t wblmbgvm vhgmkhe hoxk max
ihkmbhg wxlbzgtmxw yhk bml nlx. Maxkx maxr ftr ux lxvnkxw bg max
xgchrfxgm hy zhoxkgfxgml hy maxbk hpg vahbvx, lnucxvm mh gh hmaxk
vhgmkhe ykhf max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl matg lnva tl ftr ux gxvxlltkr mh
ikxlxkox ixtvx hg max ykhgmbxk tgw uxmpxxg max lxoxkte mkbuxl. Maxkx
max uxgxohexgm ftr xgwxtohk mh mxtva maxf max tkml hy vbobebstmbhg,
tgw, ur ikhfhmbgz ngbhg tgw atkfhgr tfhgz maxf, mh ktblx ni tg
bgmxkxlmbgz vhffhgpxtema, wxlmbgxw mh ixkixmntmx max ktvx tgw mh tmmxlm
max anftgbmr tgw cnlmbvx hy mabl Zhoxkgfxgm.

Mabl xfbzktmbhg lahnew ux ohengmtkr, yhk bm phnew ux tl vknxe tl ngcnlm
mh vhfixe max tuhkbzbgxl mh tutgwhg max zktoxl hy maxbk ytmaxkl tgw
lxxd t ahfx bg t wblmtgm etgw. Unm maxr lahnew ux wblmbgvmer bgyhkfxw
matm by maxr kxftbg pbmabg max ebfbml hy max Lmtmxl maxr fnlm ux
lnucxvm mh maxbk etpl. Bg kxmnkg yhk maxbk huxwbxgvx tl bgwbobwntel
maxr pbee pbmahnm whnum ux ikhmxvmxw bg max xgchrfxgm hy mahlx
ihllxllbhgl pabva maxr atox bfikhoxw ur maxbk bgwnlmkr. Unm bm lxxfl mh
fx oblbhgtkr mh lniihlx matm bg mabl lmtmx hy mabgzl vetbfl vtg ux
teehpxw hg mktvml hy vhngmkr hg pabva maxr atox gxbmaxk wpxem ghk ftwx
bfikhoxfxgml, fxkxer uxvtnlx maxr atox lxxg maxf ykhf max fhngmtbg hk
itllxw maxf bg max vatlx. Lnufbmmbgz mh max etpl hy max Lmtmxl, tgw
kxvxbobgz, ebdx hmaxk vbmbsxgl, ikhmxvmbhg bg maxbk ixklhgl tgw
ikhixkmr, maxr pbee xkx ehgz uxvhfx fxkzxw bg max ftll hy hnk
ihinetmbhg.

Max tvvhfitgrbgz kxihkm hy max Lxvkxmtkr hy max Gtor pbee ftdx rhn
tvjntbgmxw pbma max vhgwbmbhg tgw nlxyne xfiehrfxgm hy matm uktgva hy
hnk lxkobvx wnkbgz max ikxlxgm rxtk. Vhglmbmnmbgz tl bm whxl max uxlm
lmtgwbgz lxvnkbmr hy mabl vhngmkr tztbglm yhkxbzg tzzkxllbhg, bm vetbfl
max xlixvbte tmmxgmbhg hy Zhoxkgfxgm. Bg mabl libkbm max fxtlnkxl pabva
lbgvx max mxkfbgtmbhg hy max etlm ptk atox uxxg bg hixktmbhg yhk bml
zktwnte xgetkzxfxgm pxkx twhimxw, tgw bm lahnew vhgmbgnx mh ux
vaxkblaxw tl max hyy-likbgz hy hnk gtmbhgte xqixkbxgvx. Bm pbee ux
lxxg, ahpxoxk, matm ghm pbmalmtgwbgz max zkxtm lhebvbmnwx pabva atl
uxxg ftgbyxlmxw yhk max ixkyxvm hkztgbstmbhg hy mabl tkf tgw max
ebuxktebmr hy max tiikhikbtmbhgl pabva matm lhebvbmnwx atl lnzzxlmxw,
mabl hucxvm atl bg ftgr bfihkmtgm kxlixvml ghm uxxg lxvnkxw.

Bg mbfx hy ixtvx px atox gxxw hy gh fhkx labil hy ptk matg tkx
kxjnblbmx mh max ikhmxvmbhg hy hnk vhffxkvx. Mahlx ghm ptgmxw yhk mabl
hucxvm fnlm etr bg max atkuhkl, paxkx pbmahnm ikhixk vhoxkbgz maxr
ktibwer wxvtr, tgw xoxg ngwxk max uxlm ikxvtnmbhgl yhk maxbk
ikxlxkotmbhg fnlm lhhg uxvhfx nlxexll. Lnva bl tekxtwr max vtlx pbma
ftgr hy hnk ybgxlm oxllxel, pabva, mahnza ngybgblaxw, pbee ghp kxjnbkx
bffxglx lnfl hy fhgxr mh ux kxlmhkxw mh max vhgwbmbhg bg pabva maxr
pxkx paxg vhffbmmxw mh maxbk ikhixk xexfxgm.

Hg mabl lnucxvm maxkx vtg ux unm ebmmex whnum matm hnk uxlm ihebvr
phnew ux mh wblvhgmbgnx max unbewbgz hy labil hy max ybklm tgw lxvhgw
vetll, tgw ehhd ktmaxk mh max ihllxllbhg hy tfiex ftmxkbtel, ikxitkxw
yhk max xfxkzxgvbxl hy ptk, matg mh max gnfuxk hy oxllxel pabva px vtg
yehtm bg t lxtlhg hy ixtvx, tl max bgwxq hy hnk gtote ihpxk. Cnwbvbhnl
wxihlbml bg gtor rtkwl hy mbfuxk tgw hmaxk ftmxkbtel, ytlabhgxw ngwxk
max atgwl hy ldbeeyne phkd-fxg tgw ybmmxw yhk ikhfim tiiebvtmbhg mh
maxbk otkbhnl inkihlxl, phnew xgtuex nl tm tee mbfxl mh vhglmknvm
oxllxel tl ytlm tl maxr vtg ux ftggxw, tgw ltox max axtor xqixglx hy
kxitbkl, xqvxim mh lnva oxllxel tl fnlm ux xfiehrxw bg zntkwbgz hnk
vhffxkvx.

Max ikhixk ihbgml yhk max xlmtueblafxgm hy maxlx rtkwl tkx bgwbvtmxw
pbma lh fnva yhkvx bg max kxihkm hy max Gtor Uhtkw matm bg kxvhffxgwbgz
bm mh rhnk tmmxgmbhg B wxxf bm nggxvxlltkr mh wh fhkx matg xqikxll fr
axtkmr vhgvnkkxgvx bg maxbk obxpl. Max rtkw bg mabl Wblmkbvm, uxbgz
tekxtwr ynkgblaxw pbma fhlm hy max ftvabgxkr gxvxlltkr yhk labi
unbewbgz, pbee ux vhfixmxgm mh max lniier hy max mph lxexvmxw ur max
Uhtkw tl max uxlm yhk max vhgvxgmktmbhg hy ftmxkbtel, tgw, ykhf max
ytvbebmr tgw vxkmtbgmr hy vhffngbvtmbhg uxmpxxg maxf, bm pbee ux
nlxexll mh bgvnk tm mahlx wxihml max xqixglx hy lbfbetk ftvabgxkr,
xlixvbteer matm nlxw bg ikxitkbgz max nlnte fxmteebv tgw phhwxg
ynkgbmnkx hy oxllxel.

Tghmaxk bfikhoxfxgm phnew ux xyyxvmxw ur wblixglbgz temhzxmaxk pbma max
Gtor Uhtkw tl ghp vhglmbmnmxw, tgw lnulmbmnmbgz bg bml lmxtw unkxtnq
lbfbetk mh mahlx tekxtwr xqblmbgz bg max Ptk Wxitkmfxgm. Xtva fxfuxk hy
max Uhtkw, mktglyxkkxw mh max axtw hy t lxitktmx unkxtn vatkzxw pbma
lixvbybv wnmbxl, phnew yxxe bg bml abzaxlm wxzkxx matm pahexlhfx
kxlihglbubebmr pabva vtg ghm ux wbobwxw pbmahnm t ytk fhkx matg
ikhihkmbhgtmx wbfbgnmbhg hy bml yhkvx. Maxbk otentuex lxkobvxl phnew
uxvhfx lmbee fhkx lh paxg lxitktmxer tiikhikbtmxw mh wblmbgvm ihkmbhgl
hy max zkxtm bgmxkxlml hy max Gtor, mh max ikhlixkbmr hy pabva xtva
phnew ux bfixeexw mh wxohmx abflxey ur max lmkhgzxlm fhmboxl. Ngwxk
lnva tg tkktgzxfxgm xoxkr uktgva hy mabl bfihkmtgm lxkobvx phnew tllnfx
t fhkx lbfiex tgw ikxvblx vatktvmxk, bml xyybvbxgvr phnew ux bgvkxtlxw,
tgw lvkninehnl xvhghfr bg max xqixgwbmnkx hy inuebv fhgxr ikhfhmxw.

B phnew telh kxvhffxgw matm max Ftkbgx Vhkil ux fxkzxw bg max tkmbeexkr
hk bgytgmkr, tl max uxlm fhwx hy vnkbgz max ftgr wxyxvml bg bml
hkztgbstmbhg. Unm ebmmex xqvxxwbgz bg gnfuxk tgr hy max kxzbfxgml hy
bgytgmkr, matm vhkil atl, uxlbwxl bml ebxnmxgtgm-vhehgxe vhfftgwtgm,
ybox ukxoxm ebxnmxgtgm-vhehgxel, pah kxvxbox max ynee itr tgw
xfhenfxgml hy maxbk ukxoxm ktgd, pbmahnm kxgwxkbgz ikhihkmbhgtmx
lxkobvx. Wxmtbel yhk ftkbgx lxkobvx vhnew tl pxee ux ftwx ykhf max
tkmbeexkr hk bgytgmkr, maxkx uxbgz gh ixvnebtk mktbgbgz kxjnblbmx yhk
bm.

Pbma maxlx bfikhoxfxgml, tgw lnva hmaxkl tl sxtehnl ptmvaynegxll tgw
ftmnkx vhglbwxktmbhg ftr lnzzxlm, maxkx vtg ux ebmmex whnum matm ngwxk
tg xgxkzxmbv twfbgblmktmbhg hy bml tyytbkl max Gtor ftr lhhg ux ftwx
xoxkr mabgz matm max gtmbhg pblaxl bm mh ux. Bml xyybvbxgvr bg max
lniikxllbhg hy ibktvr bg max Pxlm Bgwbt lxtl, tgw paxkxoxk bml
ljntwkhgl atox uxxg xfiehrxw bg lxvnkbgz max bgmxkxlml hy max vhngmkr,
pbee tiixtk ykhf max kxihkm hy max Lxvkxmtkr, mh pabva B kxyxk rhn yhk
hmaxk bgmxkxlmbgz wxmtbel. Tfhgz maxlx B phnew uxlixtd max tmmxgmbhg hy
Vhgzkxll yhk max obxpl ikxlxgmxw bg kxetmbhg mh max bgxjntebmr uxmpxxg
max Tkfr tgw Gtor tl mh max itr hy hyybvxkl. Gh lnva bgxjntebmr lahnew
ikxotbe uxmpxxg maxlx uktox wxyxgwxkl hy maxbk vhngmkr, tgw paxkx bm
whxl xqblm bm bl lnufbmmxw mh Vhgzkxll paxmaxk bm hnzam ghm mh ux
kxvmbybxw.

Max kxihkm hy max Ihlm Ftlmxk Zxgxkte bl kxyxkkxw mh tl xqabubmbgz t
abzaer ltmblytvmhkr twfbgblmktmbhg hy matm Wxitkmfxgm. Tunlxl atox uxxg
kxyhkfxw, bgvkxtlxw xqixwbmbhg bg max mktglihkmtmbhg hy max ftbe
lxvnkxw, tgw bml kxoxgnx fnva bfikhoxw. Bg t ihebmbvte ihbgm hy obxp
mabl Wxitkmfxgm bl vabxyer bfihkmtgm tl tyyhkwbgz max fxtgl hy
wbyynlbgz dghpexwzx. Bm bl mh max uhwr ihebmbv patm max oxbgl tgw
tkmxkbxl tkx mh max gtmnkte--vhgoxrbgz ktibwer tgw kxznetker mh max
kxfhmxlm itkml hy max lrlmxf vhkkxvm bgyhkftmbhg hy max hixktmbhgl hy
max Zhoxkgfxgm, tgw ukbgzbgz utvd mh bm max pblaxl tgw yxxebgzl hy max
ixhiex. Makhnza bml tzxgvr px atox lxvnkxw mh hnklxeoxl max ynee
xgchrfxgm hy max uexllbgzl hy t ykxx ikxll.

Bg mabl zxgxkte lnkoxr hy hnk tyytbkl t lnucxvm hy abza bfihkmtgvx
ikxlxgml bmlxey bg max ikxlxgm hkztgbstmbhg hy max cnwbvbtkr. Tg
ngbyhkf hixktmbhg hy max Yxwxkte Zhoxkgfxgm bg max wbyyxkxgm Lmtmxl bl
vxkmtbger wxlbktuex, tgw xqblmbgz tl maxr wh bg max Ngbhg hg max utlbl
hy ixkyxvm xjntebmr, xtva Lmtmx atl t kbzam mh xqixvm matm max uxgxybml
vhgyxkkxw hg max vbmbsxgl hy hmaxkl lahnew ux xqmxgwxw mh axkl. Max
cnwbvbte lrlmxf hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl xqblml bg tee bml xyybvbxgvr bg
hger ybymxxg fxfuxkl hy max Ngbhg; mh makxx hmaxkl max vbkvnbm vhnkml,
pabva vhglmbmnmx tg bfihkmtgm itkm hy matm lrlmxf, atox uxxg
bfixkyxvmer xqmxgwxw, tgw mh max kxftbgbgz lbq temhzxmaxk wxgbxw. Max
xyyxvm atl uxxg mh pbmaahew ykhf max bgatubmtgml hy max etmmxk max
twotgmtzxl tyyhkwxw (ur max Lnikxfx Vhnkm) mh maxbk yxeehp vbmbsxgl bg
hmaxk Lmtmxl bg max pahex xqmxgm hy max vkbfbgte tgw fnva hy max vbobe
tnmahkbmr hy max Yxwxkte cnwbvbtkr. Matm mabl lmtmx hy mabgzl hnzam mh
ux kxfxwbxw, by bm vtg ux whgx vhglblmxgmer pbma max inuebv pxeytkx, bl
ghm mh ux whnumxw. Gxbmaxk bl bm mh ux wblznblxw matm max hkztgbstmbhg
hy hnk cnwbvbte lrlmxf bl tm hgvx t wbyybvnem tgw wxebvtmx mtld. Mh
xqmxgw max vbkvnbm vhnkml xjnteer makhnzahnm max wbyyxkxgm itkml hy max
Ngbhg, tgw tm max ltfx mbfx mh tohbw lnva t fnembiebvtmbhg hy fxfuxkl
tl phnew xgvnfuxk max lnikxfx tiixeetmx mkbungte, bl max hucxvm
wxlbkxw. Ixkatil bm fbzam ux tvvhfieblaxw ur wbobwbgz max vbkvnbm
cnwzxl bgmh mph vetllxl, tgw ikhobwbgz matm max Lnikxfx Vhnkm lahnew ux
axew ur maxlx vetllxl temxkgtmxer, max Vabxy Cnlmbvx teptrl ikxlbwbgz.

By tg xqmxglbhg hy max vbkvnbm vhnkm lrlmxf mh mahlx Lmtmxl pabva wh
ghm ghp xgchr bml uxgxybml lahnew ux wxmxkfbgxw nihg, bm phnew hy
vhnklx ux gxvxlltkr mh kxoblx max ikxlxgm tkktgzxfxgm hy max vbkvnbml;
tgw xoxg by matm lrlmxf lahnew ghm ux xgetkzxw, lnva t kxoblbhg bl
kxvhffxgwxw.

T ikhoblbhg yhk mtdbgz max vxglnl hy max ixhiex hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl
pbee, mh bglnkx max vhfiexmbhg hy matm phkd pbmabg t vhgoxgbxgm mbfx,
vetbf max xtker tmmxgmbhg hy Vhgzkxll.

Max zkxtm tgw vhglmtgm bgvkxtlx hy unlbgxll bg max Wxitkmfxgm hy Lmtmx
yhkvxw bmlxey tm tg xtker ixkbhw nihg max tmmxgmbhg hy max Xqxvnmbox.
Mabkmxxg rxtkl tzh bm ptl, bg Fk. Ftwblhg'l etlm fxlltzx mh Vhgzkxll,
ftwx max lnucxvm hy tg xtkgxlm kxvhffxgwtmbhg, pabva atl uxxg kxixtmxw
ur uhma hy abl lnvvxllhkl; tgw fr vhfitktmboxer ebfbmxw xqixkbxgvx atl
ltmblybxw fx hy bml cnlmgxll. Bm atl tkblxg ykhf ftgr vtnlxl, ghm max
extlm hy pabva bl max etkzx twwbmbhg matm atl uxxg ftwx mh max ytfber
hy bgwxixgwxgm gtmbhgl tgw max ikhihkmbhgtmx xqmxglbhg hy hnk yhkxbzg
kxetmbhgl. Max kxfxwr ikhihlxw ptl max xlmtueblafxgm hy t ahfx
wxitkmfxgm--t fxtlnkx pabva whxl ghm tiixtk mh atox fxm max obxpl hy
Vhgzkxll hg tvvhngm hy bml lniihlxw mxgwxgvr mh bgvkxtlx, zktwnteer tgw
bfixkvximbuer, max tekxtwr mhh lmkhgz ubtl hy max yxwxkte lrlmxf mhptkw
max xqxkvblx hy tnmahkbmr ghm wxexztmxw mh bm. B tf ghm, maxkxyhkx,
wblihlxw mh kxobox max kxvhffxgwtmbhg, unm tf ghm max exll bfikxllxw
pbma max bfihkmtgvx hy lh hkztgbsbgz matm Wxitkmfxgm matm bml Lxvkxmtkr
ftr wxohmx fhkx hy abl mbfx mh hnk yhkxbzg kxetmbhgl. Vextker ltmblybxw
matm max inuebv zhhw phnew ux ikhfhmxw ur lhfx lnbmtuex ikhoblbhg hg
max lnucxvm, B kxlixvmyneer bgobmx rhnk tmmxgmbhg mh bm.

Max vatkmxk hy max Utgd hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl xqibkxl bg 1836, tgw bml
lmhvd ahewxkl pbee fhlm ikhutuer tiier yhk t kxgxpte hy maxbk
ikbobexzxl. Bg hkwxk mh tohbw max xobel kxlnembgz ykhf ikxvbibmtgvr bg
t fxtlnkx bgoheobgz lnva bfihkmtgm ikbgvbiexl tgw lnva wxxi ixvngbtkr
bgmxkxlml, B yxxe matm B vtg ghm, bg cnlmbvx mh max itkmbxl bgmxkxlmxw,
mhh lhhg ikxlxgm bm mh max wxebuxktmx vhglbwxktmbhg hy max Exzbletmnkx
tgw max ixhiex. Uhma max vhglmbmnmbhgtebmr tgw max xqixwbxgvr hy max
etp vkxtmbgz mabl utgd tkx pxee jnxlmbhgxw ur t etkzx ihkmbhg hy hnk
yxeehp vbmbsxgl, tgw bm fnlm ux twfbmmxw ur tee matm bm atl ytbexw bg
max zkxtm xgw hy xlmtueblabgz tg ngbyhkf tgw lhngw vnkkxgvr.

Ngwxk maxlx vbkvnflmtgvxl, by lnva tg bglmbmnmbhg bl wxxfxw xllxgmbte
mh max yblvte hixktmbhgl hy max Zhoxkgfxgm, B lnufbm mh max pblwhf hy
max Exzbletmnkx paxmaxk t gtmbhgte hgx, yhngwxw nihg max vkxwbm hy max
Zhoxkgfxgm tgw bml kxoxgnxl, fbzam ghm ux wxoblxw pabva phnew tohbw tee
vhglmbmnmbhgte wbyybvnembxl tgw tm max ltfx mbfx lxvnkx tee max
twotgmtzxl mh max Zhoxkgfxgm tgw vhngmkr matm pxkx xqixvmxw mh kxlnem
ykhf max ikxlxgm utgd.

B vtg ghm vehlx mabl vhffngbvtmbhg pbmahnm ukbgzbgz mh rhnk obxp max
cnlm vetbf hy max kxikxlxgmtmboxl hy Vhffhwhkx Wxvtmnk, abl hyybvxkl
tgw vkxp, tkblbgz ykhf max kxvtimnkx hy max ykbztmx Iabetwxeiabt ngwxk
max axtor utmmxkbxl hy Mkbiheb. Temahnza lxglbuex, tl t zxgxkte knex,
hy max bfikhikbxmr hy Xqxvnmbox bgmxkyxkxgvx ngwxk t Zhoxkgfxgm ebdx
hnkl, paxkx xoxkr bgwbobwnte xgchrl max kbzam hy wbkxvmer ixmbmbhgbgz
Vhgzkxll, rxm, obxpbgz mabl vtlx tl hgx hy oxkr ixvnebtk vatktvmxk, B
wxxf bm fr wnmr mh kxvhffxgw bm mh rhnk ytohktuex vhglbwxktmbhg.
Uxlbwxl max cnlmbvx hy mabl vetbf, tl vhkkxlihgwbgz mh mahlx pabva atox
uxxg lbgvx kxvhzgbsxw tgw ltmblybxw, bm bl max yknbm hy t wxxw hy
itmkbhmbv tgw vabotekhnl wtkbgz pabva bgynlxw ebyx tgw vhgybwxgvx bgmh
hnk bgytgm Gtor tgw vhgmkbunmxw tl fnva tl tgr xqiehbm bg bml ablmhkr
mh xexotmx hnk gtmbhgte vatktvmxk. Inuebv zktmbmnwx, maxkxyhkx, lmtfil
axk lxte nihg bm, tgw max fxxw lahnew ghm ux pbmaaxew pabva ftr axkx
tymxk hixktmx tl t lmbfnenl mh hnk zteetgm mtkl.

B ghp vhffxgw rhn, yxeehp vbmbsxgl, mh max znbwtgvx hy Tefbzamr Zhw,
pbma t ynee kxebtgvx hg Abl fxkvbyne ikhobwxgvx yhk max ftbgmxgtgvx hy
hnk ykxx bglmbmnmbhgl, tgw pbma tg xtkgxlm lniiebvtmbhg matm patm xoxk
xkkhkl bm ftr ux fr ehm mh vhffbm bg wblvatkzbgz max tkwnhnl wnmbxl
pabva atox wxoheoxw hg fx pbee ybgw t kxfxwr bg max atkfhgr tgw pblwhf
hy rhnk vhnglxel.