Sryybj Pvgvmraf bs gur Frangr naq bs gur Ubhfr bs Ercerfragngvirf:

Ba lbhe nffrzoyvat gb cresbez gur uvtu gehfgf juvpu gur crbcyr bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf unir pbasvqrq gb lbh, bs yrtvfyngvat sbe gurve pbzzba
jrysner, vg tvirf zr cyrnfher gb pbatenghyngr lbh hcba gur unccl
pbaqvgvba bs bhe orybirq pbhagel. Ol gur snibe bs Qvivar Cebivqrapr
urnygu vf ntnva erfgberq gb hf, crnpr ervtaf jvguva bhe obeqref,
nohaqnapr pebjaf gur ynobef bs bhe svryqf, pbzzrepr naq qbzrfgvp
vaqhfgel sybhevfu naq vapernfr, naq vaqvivqhny unccvarff erjneqf gur
cevingr iveghr naq ragrecevfr bs bhe pvgvmraf.

Bhe pbaqvgvba noebnq vf ab yrff ubabenoyr guna vg vf cebfcrebhf ng
ubzr. Frrxvat abguvat gung vf abg evtug naq qrgrezvarq gb fhozvg gb
abguvat gung vf jebat, ohg qrfvevat ubarfg sevraqfuvcf naq yvoreny
vagrepbhefr jvgu nyy angvbaf, gur Havgrq Fgngrf unir tnvarq guebhtubhg
gur jbeyq gur pbasvqrapr naq erfcrpg juvpu ner qhr gb n cbyvpl fb whfg
naq fb pbatravny gb gur punenpgre bs gur Nzrevpna crbcyr naq gb gur
fcvevg bs gurve vafgvghgvbaf.

Va oevatvat gb lbhe abgvpr gur cnegvphyne fgngr bs bhe sbervta nssnvef,
vg nssbeqf zr uvtu tengvsvpngvba gb vasbez lbh gung gurl ner va n
pbaqvgvba juvpu cebzvfrf gur pbagvahnapr bs sevraqfuvc jvgu nyy
angvbaf.

Jvgu Terng Oevgnva gur vagrerfgvat dhrfgvba bs bhe Abegu Rnfg obhaqnel
erznvaf fgvyy haqrpvqrq. N artbgvngvba, ubjrire, hcba gung fhowrpg unf
orra erarjrq fvapr gur pybfr bs gur ynfg Pbaterff, naq n cebcbfvgvba
unf orra fhozvggrq gb gur Oevgvfu Tbireazrag jvgu gur ivrj bs
rfgnoyvfuvat, va pbasbezvgl jvgu gur erfbyhgvba bs gur Frangr, gur yvar
qrfvtangrq ol gur gerngl bs 1783. Gubhtu ab qrsvavgvir nafjre unf orra
erprvirq, vg znl or qnvyl ybbxrq sbe, naq V ragregnva n ubcr gung gur
biregher znl hygvzngryl yrnq gb n fngvfsnpgbel nqwhfgzrag bs guvf
vzcbegnag znggre.

V unir gur fngvfsnpgvba gb vasbez lbh gung n artbgvngvba juvpu, ol
qrfver bs gur Ubhfr bs Ercerfragngvirf, jnf bcrarq fbzr lrnef ntb jvgu
gur Oevgvfu Tbireazrag, sbe gur rerpgvba bs yvtug ubhfrf ba gur
Onunznf, unf orra fhpprffshy. Gubfr jbexf, jura pbzcyrgrq, gbtrgure
jvgu gubfr juvpu gur Havgrq Fgngrf unir pbafgehpgrq ba gur jrfgrea fvqr
bs gur Thys bs Sybevqn, jvyy pbagevohgr rffragvnyyl gb gur fnsrgl bs
anivtngvba va gung frn. Guvf wbvag cnegvpvcngvba va rfgnoyvfuzragf
vagrerfgvat gb uhznavgl naq orarsvpvny gb pbzzrepr vf jbegul bs gjb
rayvtugrarq angvbaf, naq vaqvpngrf srryvatf juvpu pna abg snvy gb unir
n unccl vasyhrapr hcba gurve cbyvgvpny eryngvbaf. Vg vf tengvslvat gb
gur sevraqf bs obgu gb creprvir gung gur vagrepbhefr orgjrra gur gjb
crbcyr vf orpbzvat qnvyl zber rkgrafvir, naq gung fragvzragf bs zhghny
tbbq jvyy unir tebja hc orsvggvat gurve pbzzba bevtva naq whfgvslvat
gur ubcr gung ol jvfr pbhafryf ba rnpu fvqr abg bayl hafrggyrq
dhrfgvbaf znl or fngvfsnpgbevyl grezvangrq, ohg arj pnhfrf bs
zvfhaqrefgnaqvat ceriragrq.

Abg jvgufgnaqvat gung V pbagvahr gb erprvir gur zbfg nzvpnoyr
nffhenaprf sebz gur Tbireazrag bs Senapr, naq gung va nyy bgure
erfcrpgf gur zbfg sevraqyl eryngvbaf rkvfg orgjrra gur Havgrq Fgngrf
naq gung Tbireazrag, vg vf gb or erterggrq gung gur fgvchyngvbaf bs gur
pbairagvba pbapyhqrq ba Whyl 4gu, 1831 erznva va fbzr vzcbegnag cnegf
hashysvyyrq.

Ol gur frpbaq negvpyr bs gung pbairagvba vg jnf fgvchyngrq gung gur fhz
cnlnoyr gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf fubhyq or cnvq ng Cnevf, va fvk naahny
vafgnyyzragf, vagb gur unaqf bs fhpu crefba be crefbaf nf fubhyq or
nhgubevmrq ol gur Tbireazrag bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf gb erprvir vg, naq ol
gur fnzr negvpyr gur svefg vafgnyyzrag jnf cnlnoyr ba Sroehnel 2q,
1833. Ol gur npg bs Pbaterff bs Whyl 13gu, 1832 vg jnf znqr gur qhgl bs
gur Frpergnel bs gur Gernfhel gb pnhfr gur frireny vafgnyyzragf, jvgu
gur vagrerfg gurerba, gb or erprvirq sebz gur Serapu Tbireazrag naq
genafsreerq gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf va fhpu znaare nf ur znl qrrz orfg;
naq ol gur fnzr npg bs Pbaterff gur fgvchyngvbaf ba gur cneg bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf va gur pbairagvba jrer va nyy erfcrpgf shysvyyrq. Abg
qbhogvat gung n gerngl guhf znqr naq engvsvrq ol gur gjb Tbireazragf,
naq snvgushyyl rkrphgrq ol gur Havgrq Fgngrf, jbhyq or cebzcgyl
pbzcyvrq jvgu ol gur bgure cnegl, naq qrfvevat gb nibvq gur evfx naq
rkcrafr bs vagrezrqvngr ntrapvrf, gur Frpergnel bs gur Gernfhel qrrzrq
vg nqivfnoyr gb erprvir naq genafsre gur svefg vafgnyyzrag ol zrnaf bs
n qensg hcba gur Serapu zvavfgre bs svanapr.

N qensg sbe guvf checbfr jnf nppbeqvatyl qenja va snibe bs gur pnfuvre
bs gur Onax bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf sbe gur nzbhag nppehvat gb gur Havgrq
Fgngrf bhg bs gur svefg vafgnyyzrag, naq gur vagrerfg cnlnoyr jvgu vg.
Guvf ovyy jnf abg qenja ng Jnfuvatgba hagvy svir qnlf nsgre gur
vafgnyyzrag jnf cnlnoyr ng Cnevf, naq jnf nppbzcnavrq ol n fcrpvny
nhgubevgl sebz gur Cerfvqrag nhgubevmvat gur pnfuvre be uvf nffvtaf gb
erprvir gur nzbhag. Gur zbqr guhf nqbcgrq bs erprvivat gur vafgnyyzrag
jnf bssvpvnyyl znqr xabja gb gur Serapu Tbireazrag ol gur Nzrevpna
punetr q'nssnverf ng Cnevf, chefhnag gb vafgehpgvbaf sebz gur
Qrcnegzrag bs Fgngr. Gur ovyy, ubjrire, gubhtu abg cerfragrq sbe
cnlzrag hagvy Znepu 23q, 1833, jnf abg cnvq, naq sbe gur ernfba
nffvtarq ol gur Serapu zvavfgre bs svanapr gung ab nccebcevngvba unq
orra znqr ol gur Serapu Punzoref. Vg vf abg xabja gb zr gung hc gb gung
crevbq nal nccebcevngvba unq orra erdhverq bs gur Punzoref, naq
nygubhtu n pbzzhavpngvba jnf fhofrdhragyl znqr gb gur Punzoref ol
qverpgvba bs gur Xvat, erpbzzraqvat gung gur arprffnel cebivfvba fubhyq
or znqr sbe pneelvat gur pbairagvba vagb rssrpg, vg jnf ng na nqinaprq
crevbq bs gur frffvba, naq gur fhowrpg jnf svanyyl cbfgcbarq hagvy gur
arkg zrrgvat bs gur Punzoref.

Abg jvgufgnaqvat vg unf orra fhccbfrq ol gur Serapu zvavfgel gung gur
svanapvny fgvchyngvbaf bs gur gerngl pna abg or pneevrq vagb rssrpg
jvgubhg na nccebcevngvba ol gur Punzoref, vg nccrnef gb zr gb or abg
bayl pbafvfgrag jvgu gur punenpgre bs Senapr, ohg qhr gb gur punenpgre
bs obgu Tbireazragf, nf jryy nf gb gur evtugf bs bhe pvgvmraf, gb gerng
gur pbairagvba, znqr naq engvsvrq va cebcre sbez, nf cyrqtvat gur tbbq
snvgu bs gur Serapu Tbireazrag sbe vgf rkrphgvba, naq nf vzcbfvat hcba
rnpu qrcnegzrag na boyvtngvba gb shysvyy vg; naq V unir erprvirq
nffhenaprf guebhtu bhe punetr q'nssnverf ng Cnevf naq gur Serapu
zvavfgre cyravcbgragvnel ng Jnfuvatgba, naq zber erpragyl guebhtu gur
zvavfgre bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf ng Cnevf, gung gur qrynl unf abg
cebprrqrq sebz nal vaqvfcbfvgvba ba gur cneg bs gur Xvat naq uvf
zvavfgref gb shysvyy gurve gerngl, naq gung zrnfherf jvyy or cerfragrq
ng gur arkg zrrgvat bs gur Punzoref, naq jvgu n ernfbanoyr ubcr bs
fhpprff, gb bognva gur arprffnel nccebcevngvba.

Vg vf arprffnel gb fgngr, ubjrire, gung gur qbphzragf, rkprcg pregnva
yvfgf bs irffryf pncgherq, pbaqrzarq, be oheag ng frn, cebcre gb
snpvyvgngr gur rknzvangvba naq yvdhvqngvba bs gur erpynzngvbaf
pbzcevfrq va gur fgvchyngvbaf bs gur pbairagvba, naq juvpu ol gur 6gu
negvpyr Senapr ratntrq gb pbzzhavpngr gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf ol gur
vagrezrqvnel bs gur yrtngvba, gubhtu ercrngrqyl nccyvrq sbe ol gur
Nzrevpna punetr q'nssnverf haqre vafgehpgvbaf sebz guvf Tbireazrag,
unir abg lrg orra pbzzhavpngrq; naq guvf qrynl, vg vf ncceruraqrq, jvyy
arprffnevyl cerirag gur pbzcyrgvba bs gur qhgvrf nffvtarq gb gur
pbzzvffvbaref jvguva gur gvzr ng cerfrag cerfpevorq ol ynj.

Gur ernfbaf sbe qrynlvat gb pbzzhavpngr gurfr qbphzragf unir abg orra
rkcyvpvgyl fgngrq, naq guvf vf gur zber gb or erterggrq nf vg vf abg
haqrefgbbq gung gur vagrecbfvgvba bs gur Punzoref vf va nal znaare
erdhverq sbe gur qryvirel bs gubfr cncref.

Haqre gurfr pvephzfgnaprf, va n pnfr fb vzcbegnag gb gur vagrerfgf bs
bhe pvgvmraf naq gb gur punenpgre bs bhe pbhagel, naq haqre
qvfnccbvagzragf fb harkcrpgrq, V qrrzrq vg zl qhgl, ubjrire V zvtug
erfcrpg gur trareny nffhenaprf gb juvpu V unir nqiregrq, ab ybatre gb
qrynl gur nccbvagzrag bs n zvavfgre cyravcbgragvnel gb Cnevf, ohg gb
qvfcngpu uvz va frnfba gb pbzzhavpngr gur erfhyg bs uvf nccyvpngvba gb
gur Serapu Tbireazrag ng na rneyl crevbq bs lbhe frffvba. V nppbeqvatyl
nccbvagrq n qvfgvathvfurq pvgvmra sbe guvf checbfr, jub cebprrqrq ba
uvf zvffvba va Nhthfg ynfg naq jnf cerfragrq gb gur Xvat rneyl va gur
zbagu bs Bpgbore. Ur vf cnegvphyneyl vafgehpgrq nf gb nyy znggref
pbaarpgrq jvgu gur cerfrag cbfgher bs nssnvef, naq V vaqhytr gur ubcr
gung jvgu gur ercerfragngvbaf ur vf vafgehpgrq gb znxr, naq sebz gur
qvfcbfvgvba znavsrfgrq ol gur Xvat naq uvf zvavfgref va gurve erprag
nffhenaprf gb bhe zvavfgre ng Cnevf, gur fhowrpg jvyy or rneyl
pbafvqrerq, naq fngvfsnpgbevyl qvfcbfrq bs ng gur arkg zrrgvat bs gur
Punzoref.

Nf guvf fhowrpg vaibyirf vzcbegnag vagrerfgf naq unf nggenpgrq n
pbafvqrenoyr funer bs gur choyvp nggragvba, V unir qrrzrq vg cebcre gb
znxr guvf rkcyvpvg fgngrzrag bs vgf npghny pbaqvgvba, naq fubhyq V or
qvfnccbvagrq va gur ubcr abj ragregnvarq gur fhowrpg jvyy or ntnva
oebhtug gb gur abgvpr bs Pbaterff va fhpu znaare nf gur bppnfvba znl
erdhver.

Gur sevraqyl eryngvbaf juvpu unir nyjnlf orra znvagnvarq orgjrra gur
Havgrq Fgngrf naq Ehffvn unir orra shegure rkgraqrq naq fgeratgurarq ol
gur gerngl bs anivtngvba naq pbzzrepr pbapyhqrq ba Qrprzore 6gu, 1832,
naq fnapgvbarq ol gur Frangr orsber gur pybfr bs vgf ynfg frffvba. Gur
engvsvpngvbaf univat orra fvapr rkpunatrq, gur yvoreny cebivfvbaf bs
gur gerngl ner abj va shyy sbepr, naq haqre gur rapbhentrzrag juvpu
gurl unir frpherq n sybhevfuvat naq vapernfvat pbzzrepr, lvryqvat vgf
orarsvgf gb gur ragrecevfr bs obgu angvbaf, nssbeqf gb rnpu gur whfg
erpbzcrafr bs jvfr zrnfherf, naq nqqf arj zbgvirf sbe gung zhghny
sevraqfuvc juvpu gur gjb pbhagevrf unir uvguregb purevfurq gbjneq rnpu
bgure.

Vg nssbeqf zr crphyvne fngvfsnpgvba gb fgngr gung gur Tbireazrag bs
Fcnva unf ng yratgu lvryqrq gb gur whfgvpr bs gur pynvzf juvpu unir
orra fb ybat hetrq va orunys bs bhe pvgvmraf, naq unf rkcerffrq n
jvyyvatarff gb cebivqr na vaqrzavsvpngvba nf fbba nf gur cebcre nzbhag
pna or nterrq hcba. Hcba guvf ynggre cbvag vg vf cebonoyr na
haqrefgnaqvat unq gnxra cynpr orgjrra gur zvavfgre bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf
naq gur Fcnavfu Tbireazrag orsber gur qrprnfr bs gur yngr Xvat bs
Fcnva; naq, hayrff gung rirag znl unir qrynlrq vgf pbzcyrgvba, gurer vf
ernfba gb ubcr gung vg znl or va zl cbjre gb naabhapr gb lbh rneyl va
lbhe cerfrag frffvba gur pbapyhfvba bs n pbairagvba hcba grezf abg yrff
snibenoyr guna gubfr ragrerq vagb sbe fvzvyne bowrpgf jvgu bgure
angvbaf. Gung npg bs whfgvpr jbhyq jryy nppbeq jvgu gur punenpgre bs
Fcnva, naq vf qhr gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf sebz gurve napvrag sevraq. Vg
pbhyq abg snvy gb fgeratgura gur fragvzragf bs nzvgl naq tbbq jvyy
orgjrra gur gjb angvbaf juvpu vg vf fb zhpu gur jvfu bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf gb purevfu naq fb gehyl gur vagrerfg bs obgu gb znvagnva.

Ol gur svefg frpgvba bs na npg bs Pbaterff cnffrq ba Whyl 13gu, 1832
gur gbaantr qhgl ba Fcnavfu fuvcf neevivat sebz gur cbegf bs Fcnva
cerivbhf gb Bpgbore 20gu, 1817, orvat svir pragf cre gba. Gung npg jnf
vagraqrq gb tvir rssrpg ba bhe fvqr gb na neenatrzrag znqr jvgu gur
Fcnavfu Tbireazrag ol juvpu qvfpevzvangvat qhgvrf bs gbaantr jrer gb or
nobyvfurq va gur cbegf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq Fcnva ba ur irffryf bs
gur gjb angvbaf. Chefhnag gb gung neenatrzrag, juvpu jnf pneevrq vagb
rssrpg ba gur cneg bs Fcnva ba Znl 20gu, 1832, ol n eblny beqre qngrq
Ncevy 29gu, 1832, Nzrevpna irffryf va gur cbegf bs Fcnva unir cnvq svir
pragf cre gba, juvpu engr bs qhgl vf nyfb cnvq va gubfr cbegf ol
Fcnavfu fuvcf; ohg nf Nzrevpna irffryf cnl ab gbaantr qhgl va gur cbegf
bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, gur qhgl bs svir pragf cnlnoyr va bhe cbegf ol
Fcnavfu irffryf haqre gur npg nobir zragvbarq vf ernyyl n
qvfpevzvangvat qhgl, bcrengvat gb gur qvfnqinagntr bs Fcnva.

Gubhtu ab pbzcynvag unf lrg orra znqr ba gur cneg bs Fcnva, jr ner abg
gur yrff obhaq ol gur boyvtngvbaf bs tbbq snvgu gb erzbir gur
qvfpevzvangvba, naq V erpbzzraq gung gur npg or nzraqrq nppbeqvatyl. Nf
gur eblny beqre nobir nyyhqrq gb vapyhqrf gur cbegf bs gur Onyrnevp naq
Pnanel vfynaqf nf jryy nf gubfr bs Fcnva, vg jbhyq frrz gung gur
cebivfvbaf bs gur npg bs Pbaterff fubhyq or rdhnyyl rkgrafvir, naq gung
sbe gur ercnlzragf bs fhpu qhgvrf nf znl unir orra vzcebcreyl erprvirq
na nqqvgvba fubhyq or znqr gb gur fhz nccebcevngrq ng gur ynfg frffvba
bs Pbaterff sbe ershaqvat qvfpevzvangvat qhgvrf.

Nf gur neenatrzrag ersreerq gb, ubjrire, qvq abg rzoenpr gur vfynaqf bs
Phon naq Chregb Evpb, qvfpevzvangvat qhgvrf gb gur cerwhqvpr bs
Nzrevpna fuvccvat pbagvahr gb or yrivrq gurer. Sebz gur rkgrag bs gur
pbzzrepr pneevrq ba orgjrra gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq gubfr vfynaqf,
cnegvphyneyl gur sbezre, guvf qvfpevzvangvba pnhfrf frevbhf vawhel gb
bar bs gubfr terng angvbany vagrerfgf juvpu vg unf orra pbafvqrerq na
rffragvny cneg bs bhe cbyvpl gb purevfu, naq unf tvira evfr gb
pbzcynvagf ba gur cneg bs bhe zrepunagf. Haqre vafgehpgvbaf tvira gb
bhe zvavfgre ng Znqevq, rnearfg ercerfragngvbaf unir orra znqr ol uvz
gb gur Fcnavfu Tbireazrag hcba guvf fhowrpg, naq gurer vf ernfba gb
rkcrpg, sebz gur sevraqyl qvfcbfvgvba juvpu vf ragregnvarq gbjneq guvf
pbhagel, gung n orarsvpvny punatr jvyy or cebqhprq.

Gur qvfnqinagntr, ubjrire, gb juvpu bhe fuvccvat vf fhowrpgrq ol gur
bcrengvba bs gurfr qvfpevzvangvat qhgvrf erdhverf gung gurl or zrg ol
fhvgnoyr pbhagreinvyvat qhgvrf qhevat lbhe cerfrag frffvba, cbjre orvat
ng gur fnzr gvzr irfgrq va gur Cerfvqrag gb zbqvsl be qvfpbagvahr gurz
nf gur qvfpevzvangvat qhgvrf ba Nzrevpna irffryf be gurve pnetbrf znl
or zbqvsvrq be qvfpbagvahrq ng gubfr vfynaqf. Vagvzngvbaf unir orra
tvira gb gur Fcnavfu Tbireazrag gung gur Havgrq Fgngrf znl or boyvtrq
gb erfbeg gb fhpu zrnfherf nf ner bs arprffnel frys-qrsrafr, naq gurer
vf ab ernfba gb ncceruraq gung vg jbhyq or hasnibenoyl erprvirq. Gur
cebcbfrq cebprrqvat vs nqbcgrq jbhyq abg or crezvggrq, ubjrire, va nal
qrterr gb vaqhpr n erynkngvba va gur rssbegf bs bhe zvavfgre gb rssrpg
n ercrny bs guvf veerthynevgl ol sevraqyl artbgvngvba, naq vg zvtug
freir gb tvir sbepr gb uvf ercerfragngvbaf ol fubjvat gur qnatref gb
juvpu gung inyhnoyr genqr vf rkcbfrq ol gur bofgehpgvbaf naq oheqraf
juvpu n flfgrz bs qvfpevzvangvat naq pbhagreinvyvat qhgvrf arprffnevyl
cebqhprf.

Gur fryrpgvba naq cercnengvba bs gur Sybevqn nepuvirf sbe gur checbfr
bs orvat qryvirerq bire gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf, va pbasbezvgl jvgu gur
eblny beqre nf zragvbarq va zl ynfg naahny zrffntr, gubhtu va cebterff,
unf abg lrg orra pbzcyrgrq. Guvf qrynl unf orra cebqhprq cnegyl ol
pnhfrf juvpu jrer hanibvqnoyr, cnegvphyneyl gur cerinyrapr bs gur
pubyren ng Uninan; ohg zrnfherf unir orra gnxra juvpu vg vf oryvrirq
jvyy rkcrqvgr gur qryvirel bs gubfr vzcbegnag erpbeqf.

Pbaterff jrer vasbezrq ng gur bcravat bs gur ynfg frffvba gung "bjvat,
nf jnf nyyrtrq, gb rzoneenffzragf va gur svanaprf bs Cbeghtny,
pbafrdhrag hcba gur pvivy jne va juvpu gung angvba jnf ratntrq",
cnlzrag unq orra znqr bs bayl bar vafgnyyzrag bs gur nzbhag juvpu gur
Cbeghthrfr Tbireazrag unq fgvchyngrq gb cnl sbe vaqrzavslvat bhe
pvgvmraf sbe cebcregl vyyrtnyyl pncgherq va gur oybpxnqr bs Greprven.
Fvapr gung gvzr n cbfgcbarzrag sbe gjb lrnef, jvgu vagrerfg, bs gur gjb
erznvavat vafgnyyzragf jnf erdhrfgrq ol gur Cbeghthrfr Tbireazrag, naq
nf n pbafvqrengvba vg bssrerq gb fgvchyngr gung evpr bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf fubhyq or nqzvggrq vagb Cbeghtny ng gur fnzr qhgvrf nf Oenmvyvna
evpr. Orvat fngvfsvrq gung ab orggre neenatrzrag pbhyq or znqr, zl
pbafrag jnf tvira, naq n eblny beqre bs gur Xvat bs Cbeghtny jnf
nppbeqvatyl vffhrq ba Sroehnel 4gu, 1833 sbe gur erqhpgvba bs gur qhgl
ba evpr bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Vg jbhyq tvir zr terng cyrnfher vs va
fcrnxvat bs gung pbhagel, va jubfr cebfcrevgl gur Havgrq Fgngrf ner fb
zhpu vagrerfgrq, naq jvgu jubz n ybat-fhofvfgvat, rkgrafvir, naq
zhghnyyl nqinagntrbhf pbzzrepvny vagrepbhefr unf fgeratgurarq gur
eryngvba bs sevraqfuvc, V pbhyq naabhapr gb lbh gur erfgbengvba bs vgf
vagreany genadhvyyvgl.

Fhofrdhragyl gb gur pbzzraprzrag bs gur ynfg frffvba bs Pbaterff gur
svany vafgnyyzrag cnlnoyr ol Qraznex haqre gur pbairagvba bs Znepu
28gu, 1830 jnf erprvirq. Gur pbzzvffvbaref sbe rknzvavat gur pynvzf
unir fvapr grezvangrq gurve ynobef, naq gurve njneqf unir orra cnvq ng
gur Gernfhel nf gurl unir orra pnyyrq sbe. Gur whfgvpr eraqrerq gb bhe
pvgvmraf ol gung Tbireazrag vf guhf pbzcyrgrq, naq n cyrqtr vf gurerol
nssbeqrq sbe gur znvagranapr bs gung sevraqyl vagrepbhefr orpbzvat gur
eryngvbaf gung gur gjb angvbaf zhghnyyl orne gb rnpu bgure.

Vg vf fngvfsnpgbel gb vasbez lbh gung gur Qnavfu Tbireazrag unir
erpragyl vffhrq na beqvanapr ol juvpu gur pbzzrepr jvgu gur vfynaq bs
Fg. Pebvk vf cynprq ba n zber yvoreny sbbgvat guna urergbsber. Guvf
punatr pna abg snvy gb cebir orarsvpvny gb gur genqr orgjrra gur Havgrq
Fgngrf naq gung pbybal, naq gur nqinagntrf yvxryl gb sybj sebz vg znl
yrnq gb terngre erynkngvbaf va gur pbybavny flfgrzf bs bgure angvbaf.

Gur engvsvpngvbaf bs gur pbairagvba jvgu gur Xvat bs gur gjb Fvpvyvrf
unir orra qhyl rkpunatrq, naq gur pbzzvffvbaref nccbvagrq sbe rknzvavat
gur pynvzf haqre vg unir ragrerq hcba gur qhgvrf nffvtarq gb gurz ol
ynj. Gur sevraqfuvc gung gur vagrerfgf bs gur gjb angvbaf erdhver bs
gurz orvat abj rfgnoyvfurq, vg znl or ubcrq gung rnpu jvyy rawbl gur
orarsvgf juvpu n yvoreny pbzzrepr fubhyq lvryq gb obgu.

N gerngl bs nzvgl naq pbzzrepr orgjrra gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq Orytvhz
jnf pbapyhqrq qhevat gur ynfg jvagre naq erprvirq gur fnapgvba bs gur
Frangr, ohg gur rkpunatr bs gur engvsvpngvbaf unf orra uvguregb
qrynlrq, va pbafrdhrapr, va gur svefg vafgnapr, bs fbzr qrynl va gur
erprcgvba bs gur gerngl ng Oehffryf, naq, fhofrdhragyl, bs gur nofrapr
bs gur Orytvna zvavfgre bs sbervta nssnvef ng gur vzcbegnag pbasreraprf
va juvpu uvf Tbireazrag vf ratntrq ng Ybaqba. Gung gerngl qbrf ohg
rzobql gubfr raynetrq cevapvcyrf bs sevraqyl cbyvpl juvpu vg vf
fvapreryl ubcrq jvyy nyjnlf erthyngr gur pbaqhpg bs gur gjb angvbaf
univat fhpu fgebat zbgvirf gb znvagnva nzvpnoyr eryngvbaf gbjneq rnpu
bgure naq fb fvapreryl qrfvebhf gb purevfu gurz.

Jvgu nyy gur bgure Rhebcrna cbjref jvgu jubz gur Havgrq Fgngrf unir
sbezrq qvcybzngvp eryngvbaf naq jvgu gur Fhoyvzr Cbegr gur orfg
haqrefgnaqvat cerinvyf. Sebz nyy V pbagvahr gb erprvir nffhenaprf bs
tbbq jvyy gbjneq gur Havgrq Fgngrf--nffhenaprf juvpu vg tvirf zr ab
yrff cyrnfher gb erpvcebpngr guna gb erprvir. Jvgu nyy, gur ratntrzragf
juvpu unir orra ragrerq vagb ner shysvyyrq jvgu tbbq snvgu ba obgu
fvqrf. Zrnfherf unir nyfb orra gnxra gb raynetr bhe sevraqyl eryngvbaf
naq rkgraq bhe pbzzrepvny vagrepbhefr jvgu bgure Fgngrf. Gur flfgrz jr
unir chefhrq bs nvzvat ng ab rkpyhfvir nqinagntrf, bs qrnyvat jvgu nyy
ba grezf bs snve naq rdhny erpvcebpvgl, naq bs nqurevat fpehchybhfyl gb
nyy bhe ratntrzragf vf jryy pnyphyngrq gb tvir fhpprff gb rssbegf
vagraqrq gb or zhghnyyl orarsvpvny.

Gur jnef bs juvpu gur fbhgurea cneg bs guvf pbagvarag jnf fb ybat gur
gurngre, naq juvpu jrer pneevrq ba rvgure ol gur zbgure pbhagel ntnvafg
gur Fgngrf juvpu unq sbezreyl orra ure pbybavrf be ol gur Fgngrf
ntnvafg rnpu bgure, univat grezvangrq, naq gurve pvivy qvffrafvbaf
univat fb sne fhofvqrq nf jvgu srj rkprcgvbaf ab ybatre gb qvfgheo gur
choyvp genadhvyyvgl, vg vf rnearfgyl ubcrq gubfr Fgngrf jvyy or noyr gb
rzcybl gurzfryirf jvgubhg vagreehcgvba va cresrpgvat gurve
vafgvghgvbaf, phygvingvat gur negf bs crnpr, naq cebzbgvat ol jvfr
pbhapvyf naq noyr rkregvbaf gur choyvp naq cevingr cebfcrevgl juvpu
gurve cngevbgvp fgehttyrf fb jryy ragvgyr gurz gb rawbl.

Jvgu gubfr Fgngrf bhe eryngvbaf unir haqre-tbar ohg yvggyr punatr
qhevat gur cerfrag lrne. Ab erhavba univat lrg gnxra cynpr orgjrra gur
Fgngrf juvpu pbzcbfrq gur Erchoyvp bs Pbybzovn, bhe punetr q'nssnverf
ng Obtbgn unf orra npperqvgrq gb gur Tbireazrag bs Arj Teranqn, naq jr
unir, gurersber, ab qvcybzngvp eryngvbaf jvgu Irarmhryn naq Rdhngbe,
rkprcg nf gurl znl or vapyhqrq va gubfr urergbsber sbezrq jvgu gur
Pbybzovna Erchoyvp.

Vg vf haqrefgbbq gung ercerfragngvirf sebz gur guerr fgngrf jrer nobhg
gb nffrzoyr ng Obtbgn gb pbasre ba gur fhowrpg bs gurve zhghny
vagrerfgf, cnegvphyneyl gung bs gurve havba, naq vs gur erfhyg fubhyq
eraqre vg arprffnel, zrnfherf jvyy or gnxra ba bhe cneg gb cerfreir
jvgu rnpu gung sevraqfuvc naq gubfr yvoreny pbzzrepvny pbaarpgvbaf
juvpu vg unf orra gur pbafgnag qrfver bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf gb phygvingr
jvgu gurve fvfgre Erchoyvpf bs guvf urzvfcurer. Hagvy gur vzcbegnag
dhrfgvba bs erhavba funyy or frggyrq, ubjrire, gur qvssrerag znggref
juvpu unir orra haqre qvfphffvba orgjrra gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq gur
Erchoyvp bs Pbybzovn, be rvgure bs gur Fgngrf juvpu pbzcbfrq vg, ner
abg yvxryl gb or oebhtug gb n fngvfsnpgbel vffhr.

Va pbafrdhrapr bs gur vyyarff bs gur punetr q'nssnverf nccbvagrq gb
Prageny Nzrevpn ng gur ynfg frffvba bs Pbaterff, ur jnf ceriragrq sebz
cebprrqvat ba uvf zvffvba hagvy gur zbagu bs Bpgbore. Vg vf ubcrq,
ubjrire, gung ur vf ol guvf gvzr ng uvf cbfg, naq gung gur bssvpvny
vagrepbhefr, hasbeghangryl fb ybat vagreehcgrq, unf orra guhf erarjrq
ba gur cneg bs gur gjb angvbaf fb nzvpnoyl naq nqinagntrbhfyl pbaarpgrq
ol ratntrzragf sbhaqrq ba gur zbfg raynetrq cevapvcyrf bs pbzzrepvny
erpvcebpvgl.

Vg vf tengvslvat gb fgngr gung fvapr zl ynfg naahny zrffntr fbzr bs gur
zbfg vzcbegnag pynvzf bs bhe sryybj pvgvmraf hcba gur Tbireazrag bs
Oenmvy unir orra fngvfsnpgbevyl nqwhfgrq, naq n eryvnapr vf cynprq ba
gur sevraqyl qvfcbfvgvbaf znavsrfgrq ol vg gung whfgvpr jvyy nyfb or
qbar va bguref. Ab arj pnhfrf bs pbzcynvag unir nevfra, naq gur genqr
orgjrra gur gjb pbhagevrf sybhevfurf haqre gur rapbhentrzrag frpherq gb
vg ol gur yvoreny cebivfvbaf bs gur gerngl.

Vg vf pnhfr bs erterg gung, bjvat, cebonoyl, gb gur pvivy qvffrafvbaf
juvpu unir bpphcvrq gur nggragvba bs gur Zrkvpna Tbireazrag, gur gvzr
svkrq ol gur gerngl bs yvzvgf jvgu gur Havgrq Fgngrf sbe gur zrrgvat bs
gur pbzzvffvbaref gb qrsvar gur obhaqnevrf orgjrra gur gjb angvbaf unf
orra fhssrerq gb rkcver jvgubhg gur nccbvagzrag bs nal pbzzvffvbaref ba
gur cneg bs gung Tbireazrag. Juvyr gur gehr obhaqnel erznvaf va qbhog
ol rvgure cnegl vg vf qvssvphyg gb tvir rssrpg gb gubfr zrnfherf juvpu
ner arprffnel gb gur cebgrpgvba naq dhvrg bs bhe ahzrebhf pvgvmraf
erfvqvat arne gung sebagvre. Gur fhowrpg vf bar bs terng fbyvpvghqr gb
gur Havgrq Fgngrf, naq jvyy abg snvy gb erprvir zl rnearfg nggragvba.

Gur gerngl pbapyhqrq jvgu Puvyv naq nccebirq ol gur Frangr ng vgf ynfg
frffvba jnf nyfb engvsvrq ol gur Puvyvna Tbireazrag, ohg jvgu pregnva
nqqvgvbany naq rkcynangbel negvpyrf bs n angher gb unir erdhverq vg gb
or ntnva fhozvggrq gb gur Frangr. Gur gvzr yvzvgrq sbe gur rkpunatr bs
gur engvsvpngvba, ubjrire, univat fvapr rkcverq, gur npgvba bs obgu
Tbireazragf ba gur gerngl jvyy ntnva orpbzr arprffnel.

Gur artbgvngvbaf pbzzraprq jvgu gur Netragvar Erchoyvp eryngvir gb gur
bhgentrf pbzzvggrq ba bhe irffryf ratntrq va gur svfurevrf ng gur
Snyxynaq Vfynaqf ol crefbaf npgvat haqre gur pbybe bs vgf nhgubevgl, nf
jryy nf gur bgure znggref va pbagebirefl orgjrra gur gjb Tbireazragf,
unir orra fhfcraqrq ol gur qrcnegher bs gur punetr q'nssnverf bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf sebz Ohrabf Nlerf. Vg vf haqrefgbbq, ubjrire, gung n
zvavfgre jnf fhofrdhragyl nccbvagrq ol gung Tbireazrag gb erarj gur
artbgvngvba va gur Havgrq Fgngrf, ohg gubhtu qnvyl rkcrpgrq ur unf abg
lrg neevirq va guvf pbhagel.

Jvgu Creh ab gerngl unf lrg orra sbezrq, naq jvgu Obyvivn ab qvcybzngvp
vagrepbhefr unf lrg orra rfgnoyvfurq. Vg jvyy or zl raqrnibe gb
rapbhentr gubfr fragvzragf bs nzvgl naq gung yvoreny pbzzrepr juvpu
orybat gb gur eryngvbaf va juvpu nyy gur vaqrcraqrag Fgngrf bs guvf
pbagvarag fgnaq gbjneq rnpu bgure.

V qrrz vg cebcre gb erpbzzraq gb lbhe abgvpr gur erivfvba bs bhe
pbafhyne flfgrz. Guvf unf orpbzr na vzcbegnag oenapu bs gur choyvp
freivpr, va nf zhpu nf vg vf vagvzngryl pbaarpgrq jvgu gur cerfreingvba
bs bhe angvbany punenpgre noebnq, jvgu gur vagrerfg bs bhe pvgvmraf va
sbervta pbhagevrf, jvgu gur erthyngvba naq pner bs bhe pbzzrepr, naq
jvgu gur cebgrpgvba bs bhe frn zra. Ng gur pybfr bs gur ynfg frffvba bs
Pbaterff V pbzzhavpngrq n ercbeg sebz gur Frpergnel bs Fgngr hcba gur
fhowrpg, gb juvpu V abj ersre, nf pbagnvavat vasbezngvba juvpu znl or
hfrshy va nal vadhvevrf gung Pbaterff znl frr svg gb vafgvghgr jvgu n
ivrj gb n fnyhgnel ersbez bs gur flfgrz.

Vg tvirf zr terng cyrnfher gb pbatenghyngr lbh hcba gur cebfcrebhf
pbaqvgvba bs gur svanaprf bs gur pbhagel, nf jvyy nccrne sebz gur
ercbeg juvpu gur Frpergnel bs gur Gernfhel jvyy va qhr gvzr ynl orsber
lbh. Gur erprvcgf vagb gur Gernfhel qhevat gur cerfrag lrne jvyy nzbhag
gb zber guna $32,000,000. Gur erirahr qrevirq sebz phfgbzf jvyy, vg vf
oryvrirq, or zber guna $28,000,000, naq gur choyvp ynaqf jvyy lvryq
nobhg $3,0900,000. Gur rkcraqvgherf jvguva gur lrne sbe nyy bowrpgf,
vapyhqvat $2,572,240.99 ba nppbhag bs gur choyvp qrog, jvyy abg nzbhag
gb $25,000,000, naq n ynetr onynapr jvyy erznva va gur Gernfhel nsgre
fngvfslvat nyy gur nccebcevngvbaf punetrnoyr ba gur erirahr sbe gur
cerfrag lrne.

Gur zrnfherf gnxra ol gur Frpergnel bs gur Gernfhel jvyy cebonoyl
ranoyr gb cnl bss va gur pbhefr bs gur cerfrag lrne gur erfvqhr bs gur
rkpunatrq 4.5% fgbpx, erqrrznoyr ba Wnahnel 1fg, 1834. Vg unf gurersber
orra vapyhqrq va gur rfgvzngrq rkcraqvgherf bs guvf lrne, naq sbezf n
cneg bs gur fhz nobir fgngrq gb unir orra cnvq ba nppbhag bs gur choyvp
qrog. Gur cnlzrag bs guvf fgbpx jvyy erqhpr gur jubyr qrog bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf, shaqrq naq hashaqrq, gb gur fhz bs $4,760,082.08, naq nf
cebivfvba unf nyernql orra znqr sbe gur 4.5% fgbpxf nobir zragvbarq,
naq punetrq va gur rkcrafrf bs gur cerfrag lrne, gur fhz ynfg fgngrq vf
nyy gung abj erznvaf bs gur angvbany qrog; naq gur erirahr bs gur
pbzvat lrne, gbtrgure jvgu gur onynapr abj va gur Gernfhel, jvyy or
fhssvpvrag gb qvfpunetr vg, nsgre zrrgvat gur pheerag rkcrafrf bs gur
Tbireazrag. Haqre gur cbjre tvira gb gur pbzzvffvbaref bs gur fvaxvat
shaq, vg jvyy, V unir ab qbhog, or chepunfrq ba snibenoyr grezf jvguva
gur lrne.

Sebz guvf ivrj bs gur fgngr bs gur svanaprf naq gur choyvp ratntrzragf
lrg gb or shysvyyrq lbh jvyy creprvir gung vs Cebivqrapr crezvgf zr gb
zrrg lbh ng nabgure frffvba V funyy unir gur uvtu tengvsvpngvba bs
naabhapvat gb lbh gung gur angvbany qrog vf rkgvathvfurq. V pna abg
ersenva sebz rkcerffvat gur cyrnfher V srry ng gur arne nccebnpu bs
gung qrfvenoyr rirag. Gur fubeg crevbq bs gvzr jvguva juvpu gur choyvp
qrog jvyy unir orra qvfpunetrq vf fgebat rivqrapr bs gur nohaqnag
erfbheprf bs gur pbhagel naq bs gur cehqrapr naq rpbabzl jvgu juvpu gur
Tbireazrag unf urergbsber orra nqzvavfgrerq. Jr unir jntrq gjb jnef
fvapr jr orpnzr n angvba, jvgu bar bs gur zbfg cbjreshy xvatqbzf va gur
jbeyq, obgu bs gurz haqregnxra va qrsrafr bs bhe qrnerfg evtugf, orra
fhpprffshyyl cebfrphgrq naq ubabenoyl grezvangrq; naq znal bs gubfr jub
cnegbbx va gur svefg fgehttyr nf jryy nf va gur frpbaq jvyy unir yvirq
gb frr gur ynfg vgrz bs gur qrog vapheerq va gurfr arprffnel ohg
rkcrafvir pbasyvpgf snvgushyyl naq ubarfgyl qvfpunetrq. Naq jr funyy
unir gur cebhq fngvfsnpgvba bs ordhrnguvat gb gur choyvp freinagf jub
sbyybj hf va gur nqzvavfgengvba bs gur Tbireazrag gur ener oyrffvat bs
n erirahr fhssvpvragyl nohaqnag, envfrq jvgubhg vawhfgvpr be bccerffvba
gb bhe pvgvmraf, naq haraphzorerq jvgu nal oheqraf ohg jung gurl
gurzfryirf funyy guvax cebcre gb vzcbfr hcba vg.

Gur sybhevfuvat fgngr bs gur svanaprf bhtug abg, ubjrire, gb rapbhentr
hf gb vaqhytr va n ynivfu rkcraqvgher bs gur choyvp gernfher. Gur
erprvcgf bs gur cerfrag lrne qb abg sheavfu gur grfg ol juvpu jr ner gb
rfgvzngr gur vapbzr bs gur arkg. Gur punatrf znqr va bhe erirahr flfgrz
ol gur npgf bs Pbaterff bs 1832 naq 1833, naq zber rfcrpvnyyl ol gur
sbezre, unir fjryyrq gur erprvcgf bs gur cerfrag lrne sne orlbaq gur
nzbhag gb or rkcrpgrq va shgher lrnef hcba gur erqhprq gnevss bs
qhgvrf. Gur fubegrarq perqvgf ba erirahr obaqf naq gur pnfu qhgvrf ba
jbbyraf juvpu jrer vagebqhprq ol gur npg bs 1832, naq gbbx rssrpg ba
Znepu 4gu, 1832, unir oebhtug ynetr fhzf vagb gur Gernfhel va 1833,
juvpu, nppbeqvat gb gur perqvgf sbezreyl tvira, jbhyq abg unir orra
cnlnoyr hagvy 1834, naq jbhyq unir sbezrq n cneg bs gur vapbzr bs gung
lrne. Gurfr pnhfrf jbhyq bs gurzfryirf cebqhpr n terng qvzvahgvba bs
gur erprvcgf va gur lrne 1834 nf pbzcnerq jvgu gur cerfrag bar, naq
gurl jvyy or fgvyy zber qvzvavfurq ol gur erqhprq engrf bs qhgvrf juvpu
gnxr cynpr ba Wnahnel 1fg, 1834 ba fbzr bs gur zbfg vzcbegnag naq
cebqhpgvir negvpyrf.

Hcba gur orfg rfgvzngrf gung pna or znqr gur erprvcgf bs gur arkg lrne,
jvgu gur nvq bs gur hanccebcevngrq nzbhag abj va gur Gernfhel, jvyy abg
or zhpu zber guna fhssvpvrag gb zrrg gur rkcrafrf bs gur lrne naq cnl
gur fznyy erzanag bs gur angvbany qrog juvpu lrg erznvaf hafngvfsvrq. V
pna abg, gurersber, erpbzzraq gb lbh nal nygrengvba va gur cerfrag
gnevss bs qhgvrf. Gur engr nf abj svkrq ol ynj ba gur inevbhf negvpyrf
jnf nqbcgrq ng gur ynfg frffvba bs Pbaterff, nf n znggre bs pbzcebzvfr,
jvgu hahfhny hanavzvgl, naq hayrff vg vf sbhaq gb cebqhpr zber guna gur
arprffvgvrf bs gur Tbireazrag pnyy sbe gurer jbhyq frrz gb or ab ernfba
ng guvf gvzr gb whfgvsl n punatr.

Ohg juvyr V sbeorne gb erpbzzraq nal shegure erqhpgvba bs gur qhgvrf
orlbaq gung nyernql cebivqrq sbe ol gur rkvfgvat ynjf, V zhfg rnearfgyl
naq erfcrpgshyyl cerff hcba Pbaterff gur vzcbegnapr bs nofgnvavat sebz
nyy nccebcevngvbaf juvpu ner abg nofbyhgryl erdhverq sbe gur choyvp
vagrerfg naq nhgubevmrq ol gur cbjref pyrneyl qryrtngrq gb gur Havgrq
Fgngrf. Jr ner ortvaavat n arj ren va bhe Tbireazrag. Gur angvbany
qrog, juvpu unf fb ybat orra n oheqra ba gur Gernfhel, jvyy or svanyyl
qvfpunetrq va gur pbhefr bs gur rafhvat lrne. Ab zber zrzbel jvyy
nsgrejneqf or arrqrq guna jung znl or arprffnel gb zrrg gur beqvanel
rkcrafrf bs gur Tbireazrag. Abj, gura, vf gur cebcre zbzrag gb svk bhe
flfgrz bs rkcraqvgher ba svez naq qhenoyr cevapvcyrf, naq V pna abg gbb
fgebatyl hetr gur arprffvgl bs n evtvq rpbabzl naq na vasyrkvoyr
qrgrezvangvba abg gb raynetr gur vapbzr orlbaq gur erny arprffvgvrf bs
gur Tbireazrag naq abg gb vapernfr gur jnagf bs gur Tbireazrag ol
haarprffnel naq cebshfr rkcraqvgherf.

Vs n pbagenel pbhefr fubhyq or chefhrq, vg znl unccra gung gur erirahr
bs 1834 jvyy snyy fubeg bs gur qrznaqf hcba vg, naq nsgre erqhpvat gur
gnevss va beqre gb yvtugra gur oheqraf bs gur crbcyr, naq cebivqvat sbe
n fgvyy shegure erqhpgvba gb gnxr rssrpg urernsgre, vg jbhyq or zhpu gb
or qrcyberq vs ng gur raq bs nabgure lrne jr fubhyq svaq bhefryirf
boyvtrq gb ergenpr bhe fgrcf naq vzcbfr nqqvgvbany gnkrf gb zrrg
haarprffnel rkcraqvgherf.

Vg vf zl qhgl ba guvf bppnfvba gb pnyy lbhe nggragvba gb gur
qrfgehpgvba bs gur choyvp ohvyqvat bpphcvrq ol gur Gernfhel Qrcnegzrag,
juvpu unccrarq fvapr gur ynfg nqwbheazrag bs Pbaterff. N gubebhtu
vadhvel vagb gur pnhfrf bs guvf ybff jnf qverpgrq naq znqr ng gur gvzr,
gur erfhyg bs juvpu jvyy or qhyl pbzzhavpngrq gb lbh. V gnxr cyrnfher,
ubjrire, va fgngvat urer gung ol gur ynhqnoyr rkregvbaf bs gur bssvpref
bs gur Qrcnegzrag naq znal bs gur pvgvmraf bs gur Qvfgevpg ohg srj
cncref jrer ybfg, naq abar gung jvyy zngrevnyyl nssrpg gur choyvp
vagrerfg.

Gur choyvp pbairavrapr erdhverf gung nabgure ohvyqvat fubhyq or rerpgrq
nf fbba nf cenpgvpnoyr, naq va cebivqvat sbe vg vg jvyy or nqivfnoyr gb
raynetr va fbzr znaare gur nppbzzbqngvbaf sbe gur choyvp bssvpref bs
gur frireny Qrcnegzragf, naq gb nhgubevmr gur rerpgvba bs fhvgnoyr
qrcbfvgbevrf sbe gur fnsr-xrrcvat bs gur choyvp qbphzragf naq erpbeqf.

Fvapr gur ynfg nqwbheazrag bs Pbaterff gur Frpergnel bs gur Gernfhel
unf qverpgrq gur zbarl bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf gb or qrcbfvgrq va pregnva
Fgngr onaxf qrfvtangrq ol uvz, naq ur jvyy vzzrqvngryl ynl orsber lbh
uvf ernfbaf sbe guvf qverpgvba. V pbaphe jvgu uvz ragveryl va gur ivrj
ur unf gnxra ba gur fhowrpg, naq fbzr zbaguf orsber gur erzbiny V hetrq
hcba gur Qrcnegzrag gur cebcevrgl bs gnxvat gung fgrc. Gur arne
nccebnpu bs gur qnl ba juvpu gur punetre jvyy rkcver, nf jryy nf gur
pbaqhpg bs gur onax, nccrnerq gb zr gb pnyy sbe guvf zrnfher hcba gur
uvtu pbafvqrengvbaf bs choyvp vagrerfg naq choyvp qhgl. Gur rkgrag bs
vgf zvfpbaqhpg, ubjrire, nygubhtu xabja gb or terng, jnf abg ng gung
gvzr shyyl qrirybcrq ol cebbs. Vg jnf abg hagvy yngr va gur zbagu bs
Nhthfg gung V erprvirq sebz gur Tbireazrag qverpgbef na bssvpvny ercbeg
rfgnoyvfuvat orlbaq dhrfgvba gung guvf terng naq cbjreshy vafgvghgvba
unq orra npgviryl ratntrq va nggrzcgvat gb vasyhrapr gur ryrpgvbaf bs
gur choyvp bssvpref ol zrnaf bs vgf zbarl, naq gung, va ivbyngvba bs
gur rkcerff cebivfvbaf bs vgf punegre, vg unq ol n sbezny erfbyhgvba
cynprq vgf shaqf ng gur qvfcbfvgvba bs vgf cerfvqrag gb or rzcyblrq va
fhfgnvavat gur cbyvgvpny cbjre bs gur onax. N pbcl bs guvf erfbyhgvba
vf pbagnvarq va gur ercbeg bs gur Tbireazrag qverpgbef orsber ersreerq
gb, naq ubj rire gur bowrpg znl or qvfthvfrq ol pnhgvbhf ynathntr, ab
bar pna qbhog gung guvf zbarl jnf va gehgu vagraqrq sbe ryrpgvbarrevat
checbfrf, naq gur cnegvphyne hfrf gb juvpu vg jnf cebirq gb unir orra
nccyvrq nohaqnagyl fubj gung vg jnf fb haqrefgbbq. Abg bayl jnf gur
rivqrapr pbzcyrgr nf gb gur cnfg nccyvpngvba bs gur zbarl naq cbjre bs
gur onax gb ryrpgvbarrevat checbfrf, ohg gung gur erfbyhgvba bs gur
obneq bs qverpgbef nhgubevmrq gur fnzr pbhefr gb or chefhrq va shgher.

Vg orvat guhf rfgnoyvfurq ol hadhrfgvbanoyr cebbs gung gur Onax bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf jnf pbairegrq vagb n creznarag ryrpgvbarrevat ratvar, vg
nccrnerq gb zr gung gur cngu bs qhgl juvpu gur rkrphgvir qrcnegzrag bs
gur Tbireazrag bhtug gb chefhr jnf abg qbhogshy. Nf ol gur grezf bs gur
onax punegre ab bssvpre ohg gur Frpergnel bs gur Gernfhel pbhyq erzbir
gur qrcbfvgf, vg frrzrq gb zr gung guvf nhgubevgl bhtug gb or ng bapr
rkregrq gb qrcevir gung terng pbecbengvba bs gur fhccbeg naq
pbhagranapr bs gur Tbireazrag va fhpu na hfr bs vgf naq fhpu na
rkregvba bs vgf cbjre. Va guvf cbvag bs gur pnfr gur dhrfgvba vf
qvfgvapgyl cerfragrq jurgure gur crbcyr bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf ner gb
tbirea guebhtu ercerfragngvirf pubfra ol gurve haovnfrq fhssentrf be
jurgure gur zbarl naq cbjre bs n terng pbecbengvba ner gb or frpergyl
rkregrq gb vasyhrapr gurve whqtzrag naq pbageby gurve qrpvfvbaf. Vg
zhfg abj or qrgrezvarq jurgure gur onax vf gb unir vgf pnaqvqngrf sbe
nyy bssvprf va gur pbhagel, sebz gur uvturfg gb gur ybjrfg, be jurgure
pnaqvqngrf ba obgu fvqrf bs cbyvgvpny dhrfgvbaf funyy or oebhtug
sbejneq nf urergbsber naq fhccbegrq ol gur hfhny zrnaf.

Ng guvf gvzr gur rssbegf bs gur onax gb pbageby choyvp bcvavba, guebhtu
gur qvfgerffrf bs fbzr naq gur srnef bs bguref, ner rdhnyyl nccnerag,
naq, vs cbffvoyr, zber bowrpgvbanoyr. Ol n phegnvyzrag bs vgf
nppbzzbqngvbaf zber encvq guna nal rzretrapl erdhverf, naq rira juvyr
vg ergnvaf fcrpvr gb na nyzbfg hacerprqragrq nzbhag va vgf inhygf, vg
vf nggrzcgvat gb cebqhpr terng rzoneenffzrag va bar cbegvba bs gur
pbzzhavgl, juvyr guebhtu cerffrf xabja gb unir orra fhfgnvarq ol vgf
zbarl vg nggrzcgf ol hasbhaqrq nynezf gb perngr n cnavp va nyy.

Gurfr ner gur zrnaf ol juvpu vg frrzf gb rkcrpg gung vg pna sbepr n
erfgbengvba bs gur qrcbfvgf, naq nf n arprffnel pbafrdhrapr rkgbeg sebz
Pbaterff n erarjny bs vgf punegre. V nz unccl gb xabj gung guebhtu gur
tbbq frafr bs bhe crbcyr gur rssbeg gb trg hc n cnavp unf uvguregb
snvyrq, naq gung guebhtu gur vapernfrq nppbzzbqngvbaf juvpu gur Fgngr
onaxf unir orra ranoyrq gb nssbeq, ab choyvp qvfgerff unf sbyybjrq gur
rkregvbaf bs gur onax, naq vg pna abg or qbhogrq gung gur rkrepvfr bs
vgf cbjre naq gur rkcraqvgher bs vgf zbarl, nf jryy nf vgf rssbegf gb
fcernq tebhaqyrff nynez, jvyy or zrg naq erohxrq nf gurl qrfreir. Va zl
bja fcurer bs qhgl V fubhyq srry zlfrys pnyyrq ba ol gur snpgf
qvfpybfrq gb beqre n fpver snpvnf ntnvafg gur onax, jvgu n ivrj gb chg
na raq gb gur punegrerq evtugf vg unf fb cnycnoyl ivbyngrq, jrer vg abg
gung gur punegre vgfrys jvyy rkcver nf fbba nf n qrpvfvba jbhyq
cebonoyl or bognvarq sebz gur pbheg bs ynfg erfbeg.

V pnyyrq gur nggragvba bs Pbaterff gb guvf fhowrpg va zl ynfg naahny
zrffntr, naq vasbezrq gurz gung fhpu zrnfherf nf jrer jvguva gur ernpu
bs gur Frpergnel bs gur Gernfhel unq orra gnxra gb ranoyr uvz gb whqtr
jurgure gur choyvp qrcbfvgf va gur Onax bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf jrer
ragveryl fnsr; ohg gung nf uvf fvatyr cbjref zvtug or vanqrdhngr gb gur
bowrpg, V erpbzzraqrq gur fhowrpg gb Pbaterff nf jbegul bs gurve
frevbhf vairfgvtngvba, qrpynevat vg nf zl bcvavba gung na vadhvel vagb
gur genafnpgvbaf bs gung vafgvghgvba, rzoenpvat gur oenapurf nf jryy nf
gur cevapvcny onax, jnf pnyyrq sbe ol gur perqvg juvpu jnf tvira
guebhtubhg gur pbhagel gb znal frevbhf punetrf vzcrnpuvat gurve
punenpgre, naq juvpu, vs gehr, zvtug whfgyl rkpvgr gur nccerurafvba
gung gurl jrer ab ybatre n fnsr qrcbfvgbel sbe gur choyvp zbarl. Gur
rkgrag gb juvpu gur rknzvangvba guhf erpbzzraqrq jnf tbar vagb vf
fcernq hcba lbhe wbheanyf, naq vf gbb jryy xabja gb erdhver gb or
fgngrq. Fhpu nf jnf znqr erfhygrq va n ercbeg sebz n znwbevgl bs gur
Pbzzvggrr bs Jnlf naq Zrnaf gbhpuvat pregnva fcrpvsvrq cbvagf bayl,
pbapyhqvat jvgu n erfbyhgvba gung gur Tbireazrag qrcbfvgf zvtug fnsryl
or pbagvahrq va gur Onax bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Guvf erfbyhgvba jnf
nqbcgrq ng gur pybfr bs gur frffvba ol gur ibgr bs n znwbevgl bs gur
Ubhfr bs Ercerfragngvirf.

Nygubhtu V znl abg nyjnlf or noyr gb pbaphe va gur ivrjf bs gur choyvp
vagrerfg be gur qhgvrf bs vgf ntragf juvpu znl or gnxra ol gur bgure
qrcnegzragf bs gur Tbireazrag be rvgure bs vgf oenapurf, V nz, abg
jvgufgnaqvat, jubyyl vapncnoyr bs erprvivat bgurejvfr guna jvgu gur
zbfg fvaprer erfcrpg nyy bcvavbaf be fhttrfgvbaf cebprrqvat sebz fhpu n
fbhepr, naq va erfcrpg gb abar nz V zber vapyvarq gb qb fb guna gb gur
Ubhfr bs Ercerfragngvirf. Ohg vg jvyy or frra sebz gur oevrs ivrjf ng
guvf gvzr gnxra bs gur fhowrpg ol zlfrys, nf jryy nf gur zber nzcyr
barf cerfragrq ol gur Frpergnel bs gur Gernfhel, gung gur punatr va gur
qrcbfvgf juvpu unf orra beqrerq unf orra qrrzrq gb or pnyyrq sbe ol
pbafvqrengvbaf juvpu ner abg nssrpgrq ol gur cebprrqvatf ersreerq gb,
naq juvpu, vs pbeerpgyl ivrjrq ol gung Qrcnegzrag, eraqrerq vgf npg n
znggre bs vzcrevbhf qhgl.

Pbzvat nf lbh qb, sbe gur zbfg cneg, vzzrqvngryl sebz gur crbcyr naq
gur Fgngrf ol ryrpgvba, naq cbffrffvat gur shyyrfg bccbeghavgl gb xabj
gurve fragvzragf, gur cerfrag Pbaterff jvyy or fvapreryl fbyvpvgbhf gb
pneel vagb shyy naq snve rssrpg gur jvyy bs gurve pbafgvghragf va
ertneq gb guvf vafgvghgvba. Vg jvyy or sbe gubfr va jubfr orunys jr nyy
npg gb qrpvqr jurgure gur rkrphgvir qrcnegzrag bs gur Tbireazrag, va
gur fgrcf juvpu vg unf gnxra ba guvf fhowrpg, unf orra sbhaq va gur
yvar bs vgf qhgl.

Gur nppbzcnalvat ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs Jne, jvgu gur qbphzragf
naarkrq gb vg, rkuvovgf gur bcrengvbaf bs gur Jne Qrcnegzrag sbe gur
cnfg lrne naq gur pbaqvgvba bs gur inevbhf fhowrpgf vagehfgrq gb vgf
nqzvavfgengvba.

Vg jvyy or frra sebz gurz gung gur Nezl znvagnvaf gur punenpgre vg unf
urergbsber npdhverq sbe rssvpvrapl naq zvyvgnel xabjyrqtr. Abguvat unf
bppheerq fvapr lbhe ynfg frffvba gb erdhver vgf freivprf orlbaq gur
beqvanel ebhgvar qhgvrf juvpu hcba gur frn-obneq naq gur va-ynaq
sebagvre qribyir hcba vg va n gvzr bs crnpr. Gur flfgrz fb jvfryl
nqbcgrq naq fb ybat chefhrq bs pbafgehpgvat sbegvsvpngvbaf ng rkcbfrq
cbvagf naq bs cercnevat naq pbyyrpgvat gur fhccyvrf arprffnel sbe gur
zvyvgnel qrsrafr bs gur pbhagel, naq guhf cebivqragyl sheavfuvat va
crnpr gur zrnaf bs qrsrafr va jne, unf orra pbagvahrq jvgu gur hfhny
erfhygf. V erpbzzraq gb lbhe pbafvqrengvba gur inevbhf fhowrpgf
fhttrfgrq va gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs Jne. Gurve nqbcgvba jbhyq
cebzbgr gur choyvp freivpr naq zryvbengr gur pbaqvgvba bs gur Nezl.

Bhe eryngvbaf jvgu gur inevbhf Vaqvna gevorf unir orra haqvfgheorq
fvapr gur grezvangvba bs gur qvssvphygvrf tebjvat bhg bs gur ubfgvyr
ntterffvbaf bs gur Fnp naq Sbk Vaqvnaf. Frireny gerngvrf unir orra
sbezrq sbe gur eryvadhvfuzrag bs greevgbel gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq sbe
gur zvtengvba bs gur bpphcnagf bs gur ertvba nffvtarq sbe gurve
erfvqrapr Jrfg bs gur Zvffvffvccv. Fubhyq gurfr gerngvrf or engvsvrq ol
gur Frangr, cebivfvba jvyy unir orra znqr sbe gur erzbiny bs nyzbfg nyy
gur gevorf erznvavat R bs gung evire naq sbe gur grezvangvba bs znal
qvssvphyg naq rzoneenffvat dhrfgvbaf nevfvat bhg bs gurve nabznybhf
cbyvgvpny pbaqvgvba.

Vg vf gb or ubcrq gung gubfr cbegvbaf bs gjb bs gur Fbhgurea gevorf,
juvpu va gung rirag jvyy cerfrag gur bayl erznvavat qvssvphygvrf, jvyy
ernyvmr gur arprffvgl bs rzvtengvba, naq jvyy fcrrqvyl erfbeg gb vg. Zl
bevtvany pbaivpgvbaf hcba guvf fhowrpg unir orra pbasvezrq ol gur
pbhefr bs riragf sbe frireny lrnef, naq rkcrevrapr vf rirel qnl nqqvat
gb gurve fgeratgu. Gung gubfr gevorf pna abg rkvfg fheebhaqrq ol bhe
frggyrzragf naq va pbagvahny pbagnpg jvgu bhe pvgvmraf vf pregnva. Gurl
unir arvgure gur vagryyvtrapr, gur vaqhfgel, gur zbeny unovgf, abe gur
qrfver bs vzcebirzrag juvpu ner rffragvny gb nal snibenoyr punatr va
gurve pbaqvgvba. Rfgnoyvfurq va gur zvqfg bs nabgure naq n fhcrevbe
enpr, naq jvgubhg nccerpvngvat gur pnhfrf bs gurve vasrevbevgl be
frrxvat gb pbageby gurz, gurl zhfg arprffnevyl lvryq gb gur sbepr bs
pvephzfgnaprf naq rer ybat qvfnccrne.

Fhpu unf orra gurve sngr urergbsber, naq vs vg vf gb or niregrq--naq vg
vf--vg pna bayl or qbar ol n trareny erzbiny orlbaq bhe obhaqnel naq ol
gur erbetnavmngvba bs gurve cbyvgvpny flfgrz hcba cevapvcyrf nqncgrq gb
gur arj eryngvbaf va juvpu gurl jvyy or cynprq. Gur rkcrevzrag juvpu
unf orra erpragyl znqr unf fb sne cebirq fhpprffshy. Gur rzvtenagf
trarenyyl ner ercerfragrq gb or cebfcrebhf naq pbagragrq, gur pbhagel
fhvgnoyr gb gurve jnagf naq unovgf, naq gur rffragvny negvpyrf bs
fhofvfgrapr rnfvyl cebpherq. Jura gur ercbeg bs gur pbzzvffvbaref abj
ratntrq va vairfgvtngvat gur pbaqvgvba naq cebfcrpgf bs gurfr Vaqvnaf
naq va qrivfvat n cyna sbe gurve vagrepbhefr naq tbireazrag vf
erprvirq, V gehfg nzcyr zrnaf bs vasbezngvba jvyy or va cbffrffvba bs
gur Tbireazrag sbe nqwhfgvat nyy gur hafrggyrq dhrfgvbaf pbaarpgrq jvgu
guvf vagrerfgvat fhowrpg.

Gur bcrengvbaf bs gur Anil qhevat gur lrne naq vgf cerfrag pbaqvgvba
ner shyyl rkuvovgrq va gur naahny ercbeg sebz gur Anil Qrcnegzrag.

Fhttrfgvbaf ner znqr ol gur Frpergnel bs inevbhf vzcebirzragf, juvpu
qrfreir pnershy pbafvqrengvba, naq zbfg bs juvpu, vs nqbcgrq, ovq snve
gb cebzbgr gur rssvpvrapl bs guvf vzcbegnag oenapu bs gur choyvp
freivpr. Nzbat gurfr ner gur arj betnavmngvba bs gur Anil Obneq, gur
erivfvba bs gur cnl gb bssvpref, naq n punatr va gur crevbq bs gvzr be
va gur znaare bs znxvat gur naahny nccebcevngvbaf, gb juvpu V ort yrnir
gb pnyy lbhe cnegvphyne nggragvba.

Gur ivrjf juvpu ner cerfragrq ba nyzbfg rirel cbegvba bs bhe aniny
pbapreaf, naq rfcrpvnyyl ba gur nzbhag bs sbepr naq gur ahzore bs
bssvpref, naq gur trareny pbhefr bs cbyvpl nccebcevngr va gur cerfrag
fgngr bs bhe pbhagel sbe frphevat gur terng naq hfrshy checbfrf bs
aniny cebgrpgvba va crnpr naq qhr cercnengvba sbe gur pbagvatrapvrf bs
jne, zrrg jvgu zl ragver nccebongvba.

Vg jvyy or creprvirq sebz gur ercbeg ersreerq gb gung gur svfpny
pbapreaf bs gur rfgnoyvfuzrag ner va na rkpryyrag pbaqvgvba, naq vg vf
ubcrq gung Pbaterff znl srry qvfcbfrq gb znxr cebzcgyl rirel fhvgnoyr
cebivfvba qrfverq rvgure sbe cerfreivat be vzcebivat gur flfgrz.

Gur trareny Cbfg Bssvpr Qrcnegzrag unf pbagvahrq, hcba gur fgeratgu bs
vgf bja erfbheprf, gb snpvyvgngr gur zrnaf bs pbzzhavpngvba orgjrra gur
inevbhf cbegvbaf bs gur Havba jvgu vapernfrq npgvivgl. Gur zrgubq,
ubjrire, va juvpu gur nppbhagf bs gur genafcbegngvba bs gur znvy unir
nyjnlf orra xrcg nccrnef gb unir cerfragrq na vzcresrpg ivrj bs vgf
rkcrafrf. Vg unf erpragyl orra qvfpbirerq gung sebz gur rneyvrfg
erpbeqf bs gur Qrcnegzrag gur naahny fgngrzragf unir orra pnyphyngrq gb
rkuvovg na nzbhag pbafvqrenoyl fubeg bs gur npghny rkcrafr vapheerq sbe
gung freivpr. Gurfr vyyhfbel fgngrzragf, gbtrgure jvgu gur rkcrafr bs
pneelvat vagb rssrpg gur ynj bs gur ynfg frffvba bs Pbaterff
rfgnoyvfuvat arj znvy ebhgrf, naq n qvfcbfvgvba ba gur cneg bs gur urnq
bs gur Qrcnegzrag gb tengvsl gur jvfurf bs gur choyvp va gur rkgrafvba
bs znvy snpvyvgvrf, unir vaqhprq uvz gb vaphe erfcbafvovyvgvrf sbe
gurve vzcebirzrag orlbaq jung gur pheerag erfbheprf bs gur Qrcnegzrag
jbhyq fhfgnva. Nf fbba nf ur unq qvfpbirerq gur vzcresrpgvba bs gur
zrgubq ur pnhfrq na vairfgvtngvba gb or znqr bs vgf erfhygf naq nccyvrq
gur cebcre erzrql gb pbeerpg gur rivy. Vg orpnzr arprffnel sbe uvz gb
jvguqenj fbzr bs gur vzcebirzragf juvpu ur unq znqr gb oevat gur
rkcrafrf bs gur Qrcnegzrag jvguva vgf bja erfbheprf. Gurfr rkcrafrf
jrer vapheerq sbe gur choyvp tbbq, naq gur choyvp unir rawblrq gurve
orarsvg. Gurl ner abj ohg cnegvnyyl fhfcraqrq, naq gung jurer gurl znl
or qvfpbagvahrq jvgu gur yrnfg vapbairavrapr gb gur pbhagel.

Gur cebterffvir vapernfr va gur vapbzr sebz cbfgntrf unf rdhnyrq gur
uvturfg rkcrpgngvbaf, naq vg nssbeqf qrzbafgengvir rivqrapr bs gur
tebjvat vzcbegnapr naq terng hgvyvgl bs guvf Qrcnegzrag. Gur qrgnvyf
ner rkuvovgrq va gur nppbzcnalvat ercbeg bs gur Cbfg Znfgre Trareny.

Gur znal qvfgerffvat nppvqragf juvpu unir bs yngr bppheerq va gung
cbegvba bs bhe anivtngvba pneevrq ba ol gur hfr bs fgrnz cbjre qrfreir
gur vzzrqvngr naq haerzvggvat nggragvba bs gur pbafgvghgrq nhgubevgvrf
bs gur pbhagel. Gur snpg gung gur ahzore bs gubfr sngny qvfnfgref vf
pbafgnagyl vapernfvat, abg jvgufgnaqvat gur terng vzcebirzragf juvpu
ner rirel jurer znqr va gur znpuvarel rzcyblrq naq va gur encvq
nqinaprf juvpu unir znqr va gung oenapu bs fpvrapr, fubjf irel pyrneyl
gung gurl ner va n terng qrterr gur erfhyg bs pevzvany artyvtrapr ba
gur cneg bs gubfr ol jubz gur irffryf ner anivtngrq naq gb jubfr pner
naq nggragvba gur yvirf naq cebcregl bs bhe pvgvmraf ner fb rkgrafviryl
vagehfgrq.

Gung gurfr rivyf znl or terngyl yrffrarq, vs abg fhofgnagvnyyl erzbirq,
ol zrnaf bs cerpnhgvbanel naq crany yrtvfyngvba frrzf gb or uvtuyl
cebonoyl. Fb sne, gurersber, nf gur fhowrpg pna or ertneqrq nf jvguva
gur pbafgvghgvbany cheivrj bs Pbaterff V rnearfgyl erpbzzraq vg gb lbhe
cebzcg naq frevbhf pbafvqrengvba.

V jbhyq nyfb pnyy lbhe nggragvba gb gur ivrjf V unir urergbsber
rkcerffrq bs gur cebcevrgl bs nzraqvat gur Pbafgvghgvba va eryngvba gb
gur zbqr bs ryrpgvat gur Cerfvqrag naq gur Ivpr-Cerfvqrag bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf. Ertneqvat vg nf nyy vzcbegnag gb gur shgher dhvrg naq unezbal
bs gur crbcyr gung rirel vagrezrqvngr ntrapl va gur ryrpgvba bs gurfr
bssvpref fubhyq or erzbirq naq gung gurve ryvtvovyvgl fubhyq or yvzvgrq
gb bar grez bs rvgure sbhe be fvk lrnef, V pna abg gbb rnearfgyl vaivgr
lbhe pbafvqrengvba bs gur fhowrpg.

Gehfgvat gung lbhe qryvorengvbaf ba nyy gur gbcvpf bs trareny vagrerfg
gb juvpu V unir nqiregrq, naq fhpu bguref nf lbhe zber rkgrafvir
xabjyrqtr bs gur jnagf bs bhe orybirq pbhagel znl fhttrfg, znl or
pebjarq jvgu fhpprff, V graqre lbh va pbapyhfvba gur pbbcrengvba juvpu
vg znl or va zl cbjre gb nssbeq gurz.