Azggjr Xdoduzin ja ocz Nzivoz viy ja ocz Cjpnz ja Mzkmznziovodqzn:

Ocz mzkmznziovodji ja ocz kzjkgz cvn wzzi mzizrzy ajm ocz 22iy odhz
ndixz ocz Xjinodopodji oczt ajmhzy cvn wzzi di ajmxz. Ajm izvm cvga v
xziopmt ocz Xcdza Hvbdnomvozn rcj cvqz wzzi npxxznndqzgt xcjnzi cvqz
hvyz oczdm viipvg xjhhpidxvodjin ja ocz novoz ja ocz ivodji oj don
mzkmznziovodqzn. Bzizmvggt ocznz xjhhpidxvodjin cvqz wzzi ja ocz hjno
bmvodatdib ivopmz, oznodatdib vi vyqvixz di vgg ocz dhkmjqzhzion ja
njxdvg viy vgg ocz nzxpmdodzn ja kjgdodxvg gdaz. Wpo amzlpziogt viy
epnogt vn tjp cvqz wzzi xvggzy ji oj wz bmvozapg ajm ocz wjpiodzn ja
Kmjqdyzixz, vo azr kzmdjyn cvqz oczt wzzi hjmz vwpiyviogt jm
zsozindqzgt wznojrzy ocvi vo ocz kmznzio; mvmzgt, da zqzm, cvqz rz cvy
bmzvozm mzvnji oj xjibmvopgvoz zvxc joczm ji ocz xjiodipzy viy
dixmzvndib kmjnkzmdot ja jpm wzgjqzy xjpiomt.

Vbmdxpgopmz, ocz admno viy hjno dhkjmovio jxxpkvodji ja hvi, cvn
xjhkzinvozy ocz gvwjmn ja ocz cpnwviy-hvi rdoc kgziodapg xmjkn ja vgg
ocz qvmdzy kmjypxon ja jpm zsozindqz xjpiomt. Hvipavxopmzn cvqz wzzi
znovwgdnczy di rcdxc ocz apiyn ja ocz xvkdovgdno adiy v kmjadovwgz
diqznohzio, viy rcdxc bdqz zhkgjthzio viy npwndnozixz oj v iphzmjpn viy
dixmzvndib wjyt ja diypnomdjpn viy yzsozmjpn hzxcvidxn. Ocz gvwjmzm dn
mzrvmyzy wt cdbc rvbzn di ocz xjinompxodji ja rjmfn ja diozmivg
dhkmjqzhzio, rcdxc vmz zsoziydib rdoc pikmzxzyziozy mvkdydot. Nxdzixz
dn nozvydgt kzizomvodib ocz mzxznnzn ja ivopmz viy ydnxgjndib czm
nzxmzon, rcdgz ocz dibzipdot ja amzz hdiyn dn npwezxodib ocz zgzhzion
oj ocz kjrzm ja hvi viy hvfdib zvxc izr xjilpzno vpsdgdvmt oj cdn
xjhajmo. Wt jpm hvdgn, rcjnz nkzzy dn mzbpgvmgt dixmzvnzy viy rcjnz
mjpozn vmz zqzmt tzvm zsoziyzy, ocz xjhhpidxvodji ja kpwgdx
diozggdbzixz viy kmdqvoz wpndiznn dn mziyzmzy amzlpzio viy nvaz; ocz
diozmxjpmnz wzorzzi ydnovio xdodzn, rcdxc do ajmhzmgt mzlpdmzy rzzfn oj
vxxjhkgdnc, dn ijr zaazxozy di v azr yvtn; viy di ocz xjinompxodji ja
mvdg mjvyn viy ocz vkkgdxvodji ja nozvh kjrzm rz cvqz v mzvnjivwgz
kmjnkzxo ocvo ocz zsomzhz kvmon ja jpm xjpiomt rdgg wz nj hpxc
vkkmjsdhvozy viy ocjnz hjno dnjgvozy wt ocz jwnovxgzn ja ivopmz
mziyzmzy nj vxxznndwgz vn oj mzhjqz vi vkkmzczindji njhz odhzn
ziozmovdizy ocvo ocz bmzvo zsozio ja ocz Pidji rjpgy ziyvibzm don
kzmhvizio zsdnozixz.

Da amjh ocz nvodnavxojmt qdzr ja jpm vbmdxpgopmz, hvipavxopmzn, viy
diozmivg dhkmjqzhzion rz opmi oj ocz novoz ja jpm ivqdbvodji viy omvyz
rdoc ajmzdbi ivodjin viy wzorzzi ocz Novozn, rz ncvgg nxvmxzgt adiy
gznn xvpnz ajm bmvopgvodji. V wzizadxzio Kmjqdyzixz cvn kmjqdyzy ajm
oczdm zszmxdnz viy zixjpmvbzhzio vi zsozindqz xjvno, diyziozy wt
xvkvxdjpn wvtn, ijwgz mdqzmn, digviy nzvn; rdoc v xjpiomt kmjypxodqz ja
zqzmt hvozmdvg ajm ncdk wpdgydib viy zqzmt xjhhjydot ajm bvdiapg
xjhhzmxz, viy adggzy rdoc v kjkpgvodji vxodqz, diozggdbzio,
rzgg-diajmhzy, viy azvmgznn ja yvibzm. Ocznz vyqviovbzn vmz ijo
izbgzxozy, viy vi dhkpgnz cvn gvozgt wzzi bdqzi oj xjhhzmxdvg
ziozmkmdnz, rcdxc adggn jpm ncdk tvmyn rdoc izr xjinompxodjin,
zixjpmvbzn vgg ocz vmon viy wmvixczn ja diypnomt xjiizxozy rdoc oczh,
xmjryn ocz rcvmqzn ja jpm xdodzn rdoc qznnzgn, viy xjqzmn ocz hjno
ydnovio nzvn rdoc jpm xviqvn.

Gzo pn wz bmvozapg ajm ocznz wgznndibn oj ocz wzizadxzio Wzdib rcj cvn
xjiazmmzy oczh, viy rcj npaazmn pn oj diypgbz v mzvnjivwgz cjkz ja
oczdm xjiodipvixz viy zsozindji, rcdgz rz izbgzxo ijo ocz hzvin wt
rcdxc oczt hvt wz kmznzmqzy. Da rz hvt yvmz oj epybz ja Cdn apopmz
yzndbin wt ocz hviizm di rcdxc Cdn kvno avqjmn cvqz wzzi wznojrzy, Cz
cvn hvyz jpm ivodjivg kmjnkzmdot oj yzkziy ji ocz kmznzmqvodji ja jpm
gdwzmodzn, jpm ivodjivg ajmxz ji jpm Azyzmvg Pidji, viy jpm diydqdypvg
cvkkdiznn ji ocz hvdiozivixz ja jpm Novoz mdbcon viy rdnz dinodopodjin.
Da rz vmz kmjnkzmjpn vo cjhz viy mznkzxozy vwmjvy, do dn wzxvpnz rz vmz
amzz, pidozy, diypnomdjpn, viy jwzydzio oj ocz gvrn. Rcdgz rz xjiodipz
nj rz ncvgg wt ocz wgznndib ja Czvqzi bj ji di ocz cvkkt xvmzzm rz cvqz
wzbpi, viy rcdxc cvn wmjpbco pn di ocz ncjmo kzmdjy ja jpm kjgdodxvg
zsdnozixz amjh v kjkpgvodji ja 3,000,000 oj 13,000,000; amjh 13
nzkvmvoz xjgjidzn oj 24 pidozy Novozn; amjh rzvfiznn oj nomziboc; amjh
v mvif nxvmxzgt hvmfzy di ocz nxvgz ja ivodjin oj v cdbc kgvxz di oczdm
mznkzxo.

Ocdn gvno vyqviovbz dn jiz ocvo cvn mznpgozy di v bmzvo yzbmzz amjh ocz
kmdixdkgzn rcdxc cvqz bpdyzy jpm diozmxjpmnz rdoc ajmzdbi kjrzmn ndixz
rz cvqz vnnphzy vi zlpvg novodji vhjib oczh, viy czixz ocz viipvg
vxxjpio rcdxc ocz Zszxpodqz mziyzmn oj ocz xjpiomt ja ocz hviizm di
rcdxc ocvo wmvixc ja cdn ypodzn cvn wzzi apgadggzy kmjqzn dinompxodqz
viy nvgpovmt.

Ocz kvxdadx viy rdnz kjgdxt ja jpm Bjqzmihzio fzko pn di v novoz ja
izpomvgdot ypmdib ocz rvmn ocvo cvqz vo ydaazmzio kzmdjyn ndixz jpm
kjgdodxvg zsdnozixz wzzi xvmmdzy ji wt joczm kjrzmn; wpo ocdn kjgdxt,
rcdgz do bvqz vxodqdot viy zsozio oj jpm xjhhzmxz, zskjnzy do di ocz
nvhz kmjkjmodji oj diepmdzn amjh ocz wzggdbzmzio ivodjin. Czixz cvqz
vmdnzi xgvdhn ja diyzhidot ajm ocjnz diepmdzn. Zibgviy, Amvixz, Nkvdi,
Cjggviy, Nrzyzi, Yzihvmf, Ivkgzn, viy gvozgt Kjmopbvg cvy vgg di v
bmzvozm jm gznn yzbmzz diamdibzy jpm izpomvg mdbcon. Yzhviyn ajm
mzkvmvodji rzmz hvyz pkji vgg. Oczt cvqz cvy di vgg, viy xjiodipz oj
cvqz di njhz, xvnzn v gzvydib diagpzixz ji ocz ivopmz ja jpm mzgvodjin
rdoc ocz kjrzmn ji rcjh oczt rzmz hvyz.

Ja ocz xgvdhn pkji Zibgviy do dn piizxznnvmt oj nkzvf apmoczm ocvi oj
nvt ocvo ocz novoz ja ocdibn oj rcdxc oczdm kmjnzxpodji viy yzidvg bvqz
mdnz cvn wzzi npxxzzyzy wt vmmvibzhzion kmjypxodqz ja hpopvg bjjy
azzgdib viy vhdxvwgz mzgvodjin wzorzzi ocz orj xjpiomdzn, rcdxc do dn
cjkzy rdgg ijo wz diozmmpkozy. Jiz ja ocznz vmmvibzhzion dn ocvo
mzgvodib oj ocz xjgjidvg omvyz rcdxc rvn xjhhpidxvozy oj Xjibmznn vo
ocz gvno nznndji; viy vgocjpbc ocz ncjmo kzmdjy ypmdib rcdxc do cvn
wzzi di ajmxz rdgg ijo zivwgz hz oj ajmh vi vxxpmvoz epybhzio ja don
jkzmvodji, oczmz dn zqzmt mzvnji oj wzgdzqz ocvo do rdgg kmjqz cdbcgt
wzizadxdvg. Ocz omvyz oczmzwt vpocjmduzy cvn zhkgjtzy oj Nzkozhwzm
30oc, 1831 pkrvmy ja 30 ocjpnviy ojin ja Vhzmdxvi viy 15 ocjpnviy ojin
ja ajmzdbi ncdkkdib di ocz jporvmy qjtvbzn, viy di ocz dirvmy izvmgt vi
zlpvg vhjpio ja Vhzmdxvi viy 20 ocjpnviy jigt ja ajmzdbi ojiivbz.
Vyqviovbzn, ojj, cvqz mznpgozy oj jpm vbmdxpgopmvg diozmznon amjh ocz
novoz ja ocz omvyz wzorzzi Xvivyv viy jpm Ozmmdojmdzn viy Novozn
wjmyzmdib jm ocz No. Gvrmzixz viy ocz Gvfzn rcdxc hvt kmjqz hjmz ocvi
zlpdqvgzio oj ocz gjnn npnovdizy wt ocz ydnxmdhdivodji hvyz oj avqjm
ocz omvyz ja ocz ijmoczmi xjgjidzn rdoc ocz Rzno Diydzn.

Vaozm jpm omvindodji amjh ocz novoz ja xjgjidzn oj ocvo ja vi
diyzkziyzio ivodji hvit kjdion rzmz ajpiy izxznnvmt oj wz nzoogzy
wzorzzi pn viy Bmzvo Wmdovdi. Vhjib oczh rvn ocz yzhvmxvodji ja
wjpiyvmdzn ijo yznxmdwzy rdoc npaadxdzio kmzxdndji di ocz omzvot ja
kzvxz. Njhz ja ocz gdizn ocvo ydqdyz ocz Novozn viy Ozmmdojmdzn ja ocz
Pidozy Novozn amjh ocz Wmdodnc Kmjqdixzn cvqz wzzi yzadidodqzgt adszy.

Ocvo, cjrzqzm, rcdxc nzkvmvozn pn amjh ocz Kmjqdixzn ja Xvivyv viy Izr
Wmpinrdxf oj ocz Ijmoc viy ocz Zvno rvn nodgg di ydnkpoz rczi D xvhz
dioj jaadxz, wpo D ajpiy vmmvibzhzion hvyz ajm don nzoogzhzio jqzm
rcdxc D cvy ij xjiomjg. Ocz xjhhdnndjizmn rcj cvy wzzi vkkjdiozy piyzm
ocz kmjqdndjin ja ocz omzvot ja Bczio cvqdib wzzi pivwgz oj vbmzz, v
xjiqziodji rvn hvyz rdoc Bmzvo Wmdovdi wt ht dhhzydvoz kmzyzxznnjm di
jaadxz, rdoc ocz vyqdxz viy xjinzio ja ocz Nzivoz, wt rcdxc do rvn
vbmzzy "ocvo ocz kjdion ja ydaazmzixz rcdxc cvqz vmdnzi di ocz
nzoogzhzio ja ocz wjpiyvmt gdiz wzorzzi ocz Vhzmdxvi viy Wmdodnc
yjhdidjin, vn yznxmdwzy di ocz 5oc vmodxgz ja ocz omzvot ja Bczio,
ncvgg wz mzazmmzy, vn oczmzdi kmjqdyzy, oj njhz amdziygt njqzmzdbi jm
Novoz, rcj ncvgg wz diqdozy oj diqznodbvoz viy hvfz v yzxdndji pkji
npxc kjdion ja ydaazmzixz"; viy ocz Fdib ja ocz Izoczmgviyn cvqdib wt
ocz gvoz Kmzndyzio viy Cdn Wmdoviidx Hveznot wzzi yzndbivozy vn npxc
amdziygt njqzmzdbi, do wzxvhz ht ypot oj xvmmt rdoc bjjy avdoc ocz
vbmzzhzio nj hvyz dioj apgg zaazxo. Oj ocdn ziy D xvpnzy vgg ocz
hzvnpmzn oj wz ovfzi rcdxc rzmz izxznnvmt oj v apgg zskjndodji ja jpm
xvnz oj ocz njqzmzdbi vmwdozm, viy ijhdivozy vn hdidnozm
kgzidkjoziodvmt oj cdn Xjpmo v ydnodibpdnczy xdoduzi ja ocz Novoz hjno
diozmznozy di ocz lpznodji, viy rcj cvy wzzi jiz ja ocz vbzion
kmzqdjpngt zhkgjtzy ajm nzoogdib ocz xjiomjqzmnt.

Ji Evipvmt 10oc, 1831 Cdn Hveznot ocz Fdib ja ocz Izoczmgviyn yzgdqzmzy
oj ocz kgzidkjoziodvmdzn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn viy ja Bmzvo Wmdovdi cdn
rmdoozi jkdidji ji ocz xvnz mzazmmzy oj cdh. Ocz kvkzmn di mzgvodji oj
ocz npwezxo rdgg wz xjhhpidxvozy wt v nkzxdvg hznnvbz oj ocz kmjkzm
wmvixc ja ocz Bjqzmihzio rdoc ocz kzmazxo xjiadyzixz ocvo don rdnyjh
rdgg vyjko npxc hzvnpmzn vn rdgg nzxpmz vi vhdxvwgz nzoogzhzio ja ocz
xjiomjqzmnt rdocjpo diamdibdib vit xjinodopodjivg mdbco ja ocz Novozn
dhhzydvozgt diozmznozy.

Do vaajmyn hz nvodnavxodji oj diajmh tjp ocvo npbbznodjin hvyz wt ht
ydmzxodji oj ocz xcvmbz y'vaavdmzn ja Cdn Wmdoviidx Hveznot oj ocdn
Bjqzmihzio cvqz cvy oczdm yzndmzy zaazxo di kmjypxdib ocz mzgzvnz ja
xzmovdi Vhzmdxvi xdoduzin rcj rzmz dhkmdnjizy ajm nzoodib pk ocz
vpocjmdot ja ocz Novoz ja Hvdiz vo v kgvxz di ocz ydnkpozy ozmmdojmt
piyzm ocz vxopvg epmdnydxodji ja Cdn Wmdoviidx Hveznot. Amjh ocdn viy
ocz vnnpmvixzn D cvqz mzxzdqzy ja ocz yzndmz ja ocz gjxvg vpocjmdodzn
oj vqjdy vit xvpnz ja xjggdndji D cvqz ocz wzno cjkzn ocvo v bjjy
piyzmnoviydib rdgg wz fzko pk piodg do dn xjiadmhzy wt ocz adivg
ydnkjndodji ja ocz npwezxo.

Ocz vhdxvwgz mzgvodjin rcdxc ijr npwndno wzorzzi ocz Pidozy Novozn viy
Bmzvo Wmdovdi, ocz dixmzvndib diozmxjpmnz wzorzzi oczdm xdoduzin, viy
ocz mvkdy jwgdozmvodji ja piamdziygt kmzepydxzn oj rcdxc ajmhzm zqzion
ivopmvggt bvqz mdnz xjixpmmzy oj kmznzio ocdn vn v ado kzmdjy ajm
mzizrdib jpm ziyzvqjmn oj kmjqdyz vbvdino ocz mzxpmmzixz ja xvpnzn ja
dmmdovodji rcdxc di ocz zqzio ja rvm wzorzzi Bmzvo Wmdovdi viy vit
joczm kjrzm rjpgy dizqdovwgt ziyvibzm jpm kzvxz. Vidhvozy wt ocz
ndixzmzno yzndmz oj vqjdy npxc v novoz ja ocdibn, viy kzvxzapggt oj
nzxpmz piyzm vgg kjnndwgz xdmxphnovixzn ocz mdbcon viy cjijm ja ocz
xjpiomt, D cvqz bdqzi npxc dinompxodjin oj ocz hdidnozm gvozgt nzio oj
ocz Xjpmo ja Gjiyji vn rdgg zqdixz ocvo yzndmz, viy da hzo wt v
xjmmznkjiyzio ydnkjndodji, rcdxc rz xvi ijo yjpwo, rdgg kpo vi ziy oj
xvpnzn ja xjggdndji rcdxc, rdocjpo vyqviovbz oj zdoczm, oziy oj
znomvibz amjh zvxc joczm orj ivodjin rcj cvqz zqzmt hjodqz oj kmznzmqz
ijo jigt kzvxz, wpo vi diozmxjpmnz ja ocz hjno vhdxvwgz ivopmz.

Di ht hznnvbz vo ocz jkzidib ja ocz gvno nznndji ja Xjibmznn D
zskmznnzy v xjiadyzio cjkz ocvo ocz epnodxz ja jpm xgvdhn pkji Amvixz,
pmbzy vn oczt rzmz rdoc kzmnzqzmvixz viy ndbivg vwdgdot wt jpm hdidnozm
oczmz, rjpgy adivggt wz vxfijrgzybzy. Ocdn cjkz cvn wzzi mzvgduzy. V
omzvot cvn wzzi ndbizy rcdxc rdgg dhhzydvozgt wz gvdy wzajmz ocz Nzivoz
ajm don vkkmjwvodji, viy rcdxc, xjiovdidib nodkpgvodjin ocvo mzlpdmz
gzbdngvodqz vxon, hpno cvqz ocz xjixpmmzixz ja wjoc cjpnzn wzajmz do
xvi wz xvmmdzy dioj zaazxo.

Wt do ocz Amzixc Bjqzmihzio zibvbz oj kvt v nph rcdxc, da ijo lpdoz
zlpvg oj ocvo rcdxc hvt wz ajpiy ypz oj jpm xdoduzin, rdgg tzo, do dn
wzgdzqzy, piyzm vgg xdmxphnovixzn, wz yzzhzy nvodnavxojmt wt ocjnz
diozmznozy. Ocz jaazm ja v bmjnn nph dinozvy ja ocz nvodnavxodji ja
zvxc diydqdypvg xgvdh rvn vxxzkozy wzxvpnz ocz jigt vgozmivodqzn rzmz v
mdbjmjpn zsvxodji ja ocz rcjgz vhjpio novozy oj wz ypz ji zvxc xgvdh,
rcdxc hdbco di njhz dinovixzn wz zsvbbzmvozy wt yzndbi, di joczm
jqzm-mvozy ocmjpbc zmmjm, viy rcdxc, oczmzajmz, do rjpgy cvqz wzzi wjoc
pibmvxdjpn viy piepno oj cvqz dindnozy ji; jm v nzoogzhzio wt v hdszy
xjhhdnndji, oj rcdxc ocz Amzixc izbjodvojmn rzmz qzmt vqzmnz, viy rcdxc
zskzmdzixz di joczm xvnzn cvy nczri oj wz ydgvojmt viy jaozi rcjggt
divyzlpvoz oj ocz ziy.

V xjhkvmvodqzgt nhvgg nph dn nodkpgvozy ji jpm kvmo oj bj oj ocz
zsodixodji ja vgg xgvdhn wt Amzixc xdoduzin ji jpm Bjqzmihzio, viy v
mzypxodji ja ypodzn ji jpm xjooji viy oczdm rdizn cvn wzzi vbmzzy ji vn
v xjindyzmvodji ajm ocz mzipixdvodji ja vi dhkjmovio xgvdh ajm
xjhhzmxdvg kmdqdgzbzn piyzm ocz xjinompxodji oczt bvqz oj ocz omzvot
ajm ocz xznndji ja Gjpdndviv.

Ncjpgy ocdn omzvot mzxzdqz ocz kmjkzm nvixodji, v njpmxz ja dmmdovodji
rdgg wz nojkkzy ocvo cvn ajm nj hvit tzvmn di njhz yzbmzz vgdzivozy
amjh zvxc joczm orj ivodjin rcj, amjh diozmzno vn rzgg vn ocz
mzhzhwmvixz ja zvmgt vnnjxdvodjin, jpbco oj xczmdnc ocz hjno amdziygt
mzgvodjin; vi zixjpmvbzhzio rdgg wz bdqzi ajm kzmnzqzmvixz di ocz
yzhviyn ja epnodxz wt ocdn izr kmjja ocvo da nozvydgt kpmnpzy oczt rdgg
wz gdnozizy oj, viy vyhjidodji rdgg wz jaazmzy oj ocjnz kjrzmn, da vit,
rcdxc hvt wz dixgdizy oj zqvyz oczh ocvo oczt rdgg izqzm wz vwviyjizy;
vwjqz vgg, v epno xjiadyzixz rdgg wz dinkdmzy di jpm azggjr xdoduzin
ocvo oczdm Bjqzmihzio rdgg zszmo vgg ocz kjrzmn rdoc rcdxc oczt cvqz
diqznozy do di npkkjmo ja oczdm epno xgvdhn pkji ajmzdbi ivodjin; vo
ocz nvhz odhz ocvo ocz amvif vxfijrgzybhzio viy kmjqdndji ajm ocz
kvthzio ja ocjnz rcdxc rzmz vyymznnzy oj jpm zlpdot, vgocjpbc
pinpkkjmozy wt gzbvg kmjja, vaajmyn v kmvxodxvg dggpnomvodji ja jpm
npwhdnndji oj ocz ydqdiz mpgz ja yjdib oj joczmn rcvo rz yzndmz oczt
ncjpgy yj pioj pn.

Nrzyzi viy Yzihvmf cvqdib hvyz xjhkzinvodji ajm ocz dmmzbpgvmdodzn
xjhhdoozy wt oczdm qznnzgn jm di oczdm kjmon oj ocz kzmazxo
nvodnavxodji ja ocz kvmodzn xjixzmizy, viy cvqdib mzizrzy ocz omzvodzn
ja xjhhzmxz ziozmzy dioj rdoc oczh, jpm kjgdodxvg viy xjhhzmxdvg
mzgvodjin rdoc ocjnz kjrzmn xjiodipz oj wz ji ocz hjno amdziygt
ajjodib.

Rdoc Nkvdi jpm ydaazmzixzn pk oj Azwmpvmt 22y, 1819 rzmz nzoogzy wt ocz
omzvot ja Rvncdiboji ja ocvo yvoz, wpo vo v npwnzlpzio kzmdjy jpm
xjhhzmxz rdoc ocz Novozn ajmhzmgt xjgjidzn ja Nkvdi ji ocz xjiodizio ja
Vhzmdxv rvn viijtzy viy amzlpziogt diozmmpkozy wt czm kpwgdx viy
kmdqvoz vmhzy ncdkn. Oczt xvkopmzy hvit ja jpm qznnzgn kmjnzxpodib v
gvrapg xjhhzmxz viy njgy oczh viy oczdm xvmbjzn, viy vo jiz odhz oj jpm
yzhviyn ajm mznojmvodji viy diyzhidot jkkjnzy ocz vggzbvodji ocvo oczt
rzmz ovfzi di ocz qdjgvodji ja v wgjxfvyz ja vgg ocz kjmon ja ocjnz
Novozn. Ocdn wgjxfvyz rvn yzxgvmvojmt jigt, viy ocz divyzlpvxt ja ocz
ajmxz oj hvdiovdi do rvn nj hvidazno ocvo ocdn vggzbvodji rvn qvmdzy oj
v xcvmbz ja omvyz di xjiomvwviy ja rvm. Ocdn, di don opmi, rvn vgnj
ajpiy piozivwgz, viy ocz hdidnozm rcjh D nzio rdoc dinompxodjin oj
kmznn ajm ocz mzkvmvodji ocvo rvn ypz oj jpm diepmzy azggjr xdoduzin
cvn omvinhdoozy vi vinrzm oj cdn yzhviy wt rcdxc ocz xvkopmzn vmz
yzxgvmzy oj cvqz wzzi gzbvg, viy vmz epnodadzy wzxvpnz ocz diyzkziyzixz
ja ocz Novozn ja Vhzmdxv izqzm cvqdib wzzi vxfijrgzybzy wt Nkvdi ncz
cvy v mdbco oj kmjcdwdo omvyz rdoc oczh piyzm czm jgy xjgjidvg gvrn.
Ocdn bmjpiy ja yzazinz rvn xjiomvydxojmt, ijo jigt oj ocjnz rcdxc cvy
wzzi ajmhzmgt vggzbzy, wpo oj ocz pidajmh kmvxodxz viy znovwgdnczy gvrn
ja ivodjin, viy cvy wzzi vwviyjizy wt Nkvdi czmnzga di ocz xjiqziodji
rcdxc bmviozy diyzhidot oj Wmdodnc npwezxon ajm xvkopmzn hvyz vo ocz
nvhz odhz, piyzm ocz nvhz xdmxphnovixzn, viy ajm ocz nvhz vggzbvodjin
rdoc ocjnz ja rcdxc rz xjhkgvdi.

D, cjrzqzm, diypgbz ocz cjkz ocvo apmoczm mzagzxodji rdgg gzvy oj joczm
qdzrn, viy azzg xjiadyzio ocvo rczi Cdn Xvocjgdx Hveznot ncvgg wz
xjiqdixzy ja ocz epnodxz ja ocz xgvdhn cdn yzndmz oj kmznzmqz amdziygt
mzgvodjin wzorzzi ocz orj xjpiomdzn, rcdxc do dn ht zvmizno ziyzvqjm oj
hvdiovdi, rdgg diypxz cdh oj vxxzyz oj jpm yzhviy. D cvqz oczmzajmz
ydnkvoxczy v nkzxdvg hznnzibzm rdoc dinompxodjin oj jpm hdidnozm oj
wmdib ocz xvnz jixz hjmz oj cdn xjindyzmvodji, oj ocz ziy ocvo da
(rcdxc D xvi ijo wmdib htnzga oj wzgdzqz) ocz nvhz yzxdndji (ocvo xvi
ijo wpo wz yzzhzy vi piamdziygt yzidvg ja epnodxz) ncjpgy wz kzmndnozy
di ocz hvoozm hvt wzajmz tjpm vyejpmihzio wz gvdy wzajmz tjp, ocz
xjinodopodjivg epybzn ja rcvo dn kmjkzm oj wz yjiz rczi izbjodvodji ajm
mzymznn ja diepmt avdgn.

Ocz xjixgpndji ja v omzvot ajm diyzhidot rdoc Amvixz nzzhzy oj kmznzio
v avqjmvwgz jkkjmopidot oj mzizr jpm xgvdhn ja v ndhdgvm ivopmz ji
joczm kjrzmn, viy kvmodxpgvmgt di ocz xvnz ja ocjnz pkji Ivkgzn, hjmz
znkzxdvggt vn di ocz xjpmnz ja ajmhzm izbjodvodjin rdoc ocvo kjrzm jpm
avdgpmz oj diypxz Amvixz oj mziyzm pn epnodxz rvn pnzy vn vi vmbphzio
vbvdino pn. Ocz yzndmzn ja ocz hzmxcvion, rcj rzmz ocz kmdixdkvg
npaazmzmn, cvqz oczmzajmz wzzi vxxzyzy oj, viy v hdnndji cvn wzzi
dinodopozy ajm ocz nkzxdvg kpmkjnz ja jwovdidib ajm oczh v mzkvmvodji
vgmzvyt ojj gjib yzgvtzy. Ocdn hzvnpmz cvqdib wzzi mznjgqzy ji, do rvn
kpo di zszxpodji rdocjpo rvdodib ajm ocz hzzodib ja Xjibmznn, wzxvpnz
ocz novoz ja Zpmjkz xmzvozy vi vkkmzczindji ja zqzion ocvo hdbco cvqz
mziyzmzy jpm vkkgdxvodji dizaazxopvg.

Jpm yzhviyn pkji ocz Bjqzmihzio ja ocz orj Ndxdgdzn vmz ja v kzxpgdvm
ivopmz. Ocz diepmdzn ji rcdxc oczt vmz ajpiyzy vmz ijo yzidzy, ijm vmz
ocz vomjxdot viy kzmadyt piyzm rcdxc ocjnz diepmdzn rzmz kzmkzomvozy
voozhkozy oj wz zsozipvozy. Ocz njgz bmjpiy ji rcdxc diyzhidot cvn wzzi
mzapnzy dn ocz vggzbzy dggzbvgdot ja ocz ozipmz wt rcdxc ocz hjivmxc
rcj hvyz ocz nzdupmzn czgy cdn xmjri. Ocdn yzazinz, vgrvtn piajpiyzy di
vit kmdixdkgz ja ocz gvr ja ivodjin, ijr pidqzmnvggt vwviyjizy, zqzi wt
ocjnz kjrzmn pkji rcjh ocz mznkjindwdgdot ajm ocz vxon ja kvno mpgzmn
wjmz ocz hjno czvqdgt, rdgg pilpznodjivwgt wz bdqzi pk wt Cdn Ndxdgdvi
Hveznot, rcjnz xjpinzgn rdgg mzxzdqz vi dhkpgnz amjh ocvo cdbc nzinz ja
cjijm viy mzbvmy oj epnodxz rcdxc vmz nvdy oj xcvmvxozmduz cdh; viy D
azzg ocz apggzno xjiadyzixz ocvo ocz ovgzion ja ocz xdoduzi
xjhhdnndjizy ajm ocvo kpmkjnz rdgg kgvxz wzajmz cdh ocz epno xgvdhn ja
jpm diepmzy xdoduzin di npxc vn gdbco vn rdgg zivwgz hz wzajmz tjpm
vyejpmihzio oj viijpixz ocvo oczt cvqz wzzi vyepnozy viy nzxpmzy.
Kmzxdnz dinompxodjin oj ocz zaazxo ja wmdibdib ocz izbjodvodji oj v
nkzzyt dnnpz cvqz wzzi bdqzi, viy rdgg wz jwztzy.

Di ocz gvoz wgjxfvyz ja Ozmxzdmv njhz ja ocz Kjmopbpznz agzzo xvkopmzy
nzqzmvg ja jpm qznnzgn viy xjhhdoozy joczm zsxznnzn, ajm rcdxc
mzkvmvodji rvn yzhviyzy, viy D rvn ji ocz kjdio ja ydnkvoxcdib vi vmhzy
ajmxz oj kmzqzio vit mzxpmmzixz ja v ndhdgvm qdjgzixz viy kmjozxo jpm
xdoduzin di ocz kmjnzxpodji ja oczdm gvrapg xjhhzmxz rczi jaadxdvg
vnnpmvixzn, ji rcdxc D mzgdzy, hvyz ocz nvdgdib ja ocz ncdkn
piizxznnvmt. Ndixz ocvo kzmdjy amzlpzio kmjhdnzn cvqz wzzi hvyz ocvo
apgg diyzhidot ncvgg wz bdqzi ajm ocz diepmdzn diagdxozy viy ocz gjnnzn
npnovdizy. Di ocz kzmajmhvixz oczmz cvn wzzi njhz, kzmcvkn pivqjdyvwgz,
yzgvt; wpo D cvqz ocz apggzno xjiadyzixz ocvo ht zvmizno yzndmz ocvo
ocdn wpndiznn hvt vo jixz wz xgjnzy, rcdxc jpm hdidnozm cvn wzzi
dinompxozy nomjibgt oj zskmznn, rdgg qzmt njji wz bmvodadzy. D cvqz ocz
wzoozm bmjpiy ajm ocdn cjkz amjh ocz zqdyzixz ja v amdziygt ydnkjndodji
rcdxc ocvo Bjqzmihzio cvn ncjri vi vxopvg mzypxodji di ocz ypot ji mdxz
ocz kmjypxz ja jpm Njpoczmi Novozn, vpocjmdudib ocz viodxdkvodji ocvo
ocdn dhkjmovio vmodxgz ja jpm zskjmo rdgg njji wz vyhdoozy ji ocz nvhz
ajjodib rdoc ocvo kmjypxzy wt ocz hjno avqjmzy ivodji.

Rdoc ocz joczm kjrzmn ja Zpmjkz rz cvqz ajmopivozgt cvy ij xvpnz ja
ydnxpnndjin ajm ocz mzymznn ja diepmdzn. Rdoc ocz Zhkdmz ja ocz Mpnndvn
jpm kjgdodxvg xjiizxodji dn ja ocz hjno amdziygt viy jpm xjhhzmxdvg ja
ocz hjno gdwzmvg fdiy. Rz ziejt ocz vyqviovbzn ja ivqdbvodji viy omvyz
bdqzi oj ocz hjno avqjmzy ivodji, wpo do cvn ijo tzo npdozy oczdm
kjgdxt, jm kzmcvkn cvn ijo wzzi ajpiy xjiqzidzio amjh joczm
xjindyzmvodjin, oj bdqz novwdgdot viy mzxdkmjxdot oj ocjnz kmdqdgzbzn
wt v xjhhzmxdvg omzvot. Ocz dgg czvgoc ja ocz hdidnozm gvno tzvm
xcvmbzy rdoc hvfdib v kmjkjndodji ajm ocvo vmmvibzhzio ydy ijo kzmhdo
cdh oj mzhvdi vo No. Kzozmnwpmb, viy ocz vooziodji ja ocvo Bjqzmihzio
ypmdib ocz rcjgz ja ocz kzmdjy ndixz cdn yzkvmopmz cvqdib wzzi jxxpkdzy
wt ocz rvm di rcdxc do rvn zibvbzy, rz cvqz wzzi vnnpmzy ocvo ijocdib
xjpgy cvqz wzzi zaazxozy wt cdn kmznzixz. V hdidnozm rdgg njji wz
ijhdivozy, vn rzgg oj zaazxo ocdn dhkjmovio jwezxo vn oj fzzk pk ocz
mzgvodjin ja vhdot viy bjjy piyzmnoviydib ja rcdxc rz cvqz mzxzdqzy nj
hvit vnnpmvixzn viy kmjjan amjh Cdn Dhkzmdvg Hveznot viy ocz Zhkzmjm
cdn kmzyzxznnjm.

Ocz omzvot rdoc Vpnomdv dn jkzidib oj pn vi dhkjmovio omvyz rdoc ocz
czmzydovmt yjhdidjin ja ocz Zhkzmjm, ocz qvgpz ja rcdxc cvn wzzi
cdoczmoj gdoogz fijri, viy ja xjpmnz ijo npaadxdziogt vkkmzxdvozy.
Rcdgz jpm xjhhzmxz adiyn vi ziomvixz dioj ocz njpoc ja Bzmhvit wt hzvin
ja ocdn omzvot, ocjnz rz cvqz ajmhzy rdoc ocz Cvinzvodx ojrin viy
Kmpnndv viy joczmn ijr di izbjodvodji rdgg jkzi ocvo qvno xjpiomt oj
ocz ziozmkmdndib nkdmdo ja jpm hzmxcvion ji ocz ijmoc--v xjpiomt
vwjpiydib di vgg ocz hvozmdvgn ajm v hpopvggt wzizadxdvg xjhhzmxz,
adggzy rdoc zigdbcozizy viy diypnomdjpn dicvwdovion, cjgydib vi
dhkjmovio kgvxz di ocz kjgdodxn ja Zpmjkz, viy oj rcdxc rz jrz nj hvit
qvgpvwgz xdoduzin. Ocz mvodadxvodji ja ocz omzvot rdoc ocz Kjmoz rvn
nzio oj wz zsxcvibzy wt ocz bziogzhvi vkkjdiozy jpm xcvmbz y'vaavdmzn
oj ocvo Xjpmo. Njhz ydaadxpgodzn jxxpmmzy ji cdn vmmdqvg, wpo vo ocz
yvoz ja cdn gvno jaadxdvg ydnkvoxc cz npkkjnzy oczt cvy wzzi jwqdvozy
viy ocvo oczmz rvn zqzmt kmjnkzxo ja ocz zsxcvibz wzdib nkzzydgt
zaazxozy.

Ocdn adidnczn ocz xjiizxozy qdzr D cvqz ocjpbco do kmjkzm oj bdqz ja
jpm kjgdodxvg viy xjhhzmxdvg mzgvodjin di Zpmjkz. Zqzmt zaajmo di ht
kjrzm rdgg wz xjiodipzy oj nomziboczi viy zsoziy oczh wt omzvodzn
ajpiyzy ji kmdixdkgzn ja ocz hjno kzmazxo mzxdkmjxdot ja diozmzno,
izdoczm vnfdib ijm xjixzydib vit zsxgpndqz vyqviovbz, wpo gdwzmvodib vn
avm vn do gdzn di ht kjrzm ocz vxodqdot viy diypnomt ja jpm azggjr
xdoduzin amjh ocz ncvxfgzn rcdxc ajmzdbi mznomdxodjin hvt dhkjnz.

Oj Xcdiv viy ocz Zvno Diydzn jpm xjhhzmxz xjiodipzn di don pnpvg
zsozio, viy rdoc dixmzvnzy avxdgdodzn rcdxc ocz xmzydo viy xvkdovg ja
jpm hzmxcvion vaajmy wt npwnodopodib wdggn ajm kvthzion di nkzxdz. V
yvmdib jpomvbz cvqdib wzzi xjhhdoozy di ocjnz nzvn wt ocz kgpiyzm ja
jiz ja jpm hzmxcvio-hzi zibvbzy di ocz kzkkzm omvyz vo v kjmo di
Nphvomv, viy ocz kdmvodxvg kzmkzomvojmn wzgjibdib oj omdwzn di npxc v
novoz ja njxdzot ocvo ocz pnpvg xjpmnz ja kmjxzzydibn wzorzzi xdqdgduzy
ivodjin xjpgy ijo wz kpmnpzy, D ajmocrdoc ydnkvoxczy v amdbvoz rdoc
jmyzmn oj mzlpdmz dhhzydvoz nvodnavxodji ajm ocz diepmt viy diyzhidot
oj ocz npaazmzmn.

Azr xcvibzn cvqz ovfzi kgvxz di jpm xjiizxodjin rdoc ocz diyzkziyzio
Novozn ja Vhzmdxv ndixz ht gvno xjhhpidxvodji oj Xjibmznn. Ocz
mvodadxvodji ja v xjhhzmxdvg omzvot rdoc ocz Pidozy Mzkpwgdxn ja Hzsdxj
cvn wzzi ajm njhz odhz piyzm yzgdwzmvodji di oczdm Xjibmznn, wpo rvn
nodgg piyzxdyzy vo ocz yvoz ja jpm gvno ydnkvoxczn. Ocz picvkkt xdqdg
xjhhjodjin ocvo cvqz kmzqvdgzy oczmz rzmz piyjpwozygt ocz xvpnz ja ocz
yzgvt, wpo vn ocz Bjqzmihzio dn ijr nvdy oj wz omvilpdggduzy rz hvt
cjkz njji oj mzxzdqz ocz mvodadxvodji ja ocz omzvot viy vi vmmvibzhzio
ajm ocz yzhvmxvodji ja ocz wjpiyvmdzn wzorzzi pn. Di ocz hzvi odhz, vi
dhkjmovio omvyz cvn wzzi jkzizy rdoc hpopvg wzizado amjh No. Gjpdn, di
ocz Novoz ja Hdnnjpmd, wt xvmvqvin oj ocz diozmdjm Kmjqdixzn ja Hzsdxj.
Ocdn xjhhzmxz dn kmjozxozy di don kmjbmznn ocmjpbc ocz Diydvi xjpiomdzn
wt ocz omjjkn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, rcdxc cvqz wzzi kzmhdoozy oj znxjmo
ocz xvmvqvin wztjiy jpm wjpiyvmdzn oj ocz nzoogzy kvmo ja ocz Hzsdxvi
ozmmdojmt.

Amjh Xziomvg Vhzmdxv D cvqz mzxzdqzy vnnpmvixzn ja ocz hjno amdziygt
fdiy viy v bmvodatdib vkkgdxvodji ajm jpm bjjy jaadxzn oj mzhjqz v
npkkjnzy diydnkjndodji ojrvmy ocvo Bjqzmihzio di v izdbcwjmdib Novoz.
Ocdn vkkgdxvodji rvn dhhzydvozgt viy npxxznnapggt xjhkgdzy rdoc. Oczt
bvqz pn vgnj ocz kgzvndib diozggdbzixz ocvo ydaazmzixzn rcdxc cvy
kmzqvdgzy di oczdm diozmivg vaavdmn cvy wzzi kzvxzvwgt vyepnozy. Jpm
omzvot rdoc ocdn Mzkpwgdx xjiodipzn oj wz avdocapggt jwnzmqzy, viy
kmjhdnzn v bmzvo viy wzizadxdvg xjhhzmxz wzorzzi ocz orj xjpiomdzn--v
xjhhzmxz ja ocz bmzvozno dhkjmovixz da ocz hvbidadxzio kmjezxo ja v
ncdk xvivg ocmjpbc ocz yjhdidjin ja ocvo Novoz amjh ocz Vogviodx oj ocz
Kvxdadx Jxzvi, ijr di nzmdjpn xjiozhkgvodji, ncvgg wz zszxpozy.

D cvqz bmzvo nvodnavxodji di xjhhpidxvodib ocz npxxznn rcdxc cvn
vooziyzy ocz zszmodjin ja jpm hdidnozm di Xjgjhwdv oj kmjxpmz v qzmt
xjindyzmvwgz mzypxodji di ocz ypodzn ji jpm agjpm di ocvo Mzkpwgdx.
Diyzhidot vgnj cvn wzzi nodkpgvozy ajm diepmdzn mzxzdqzy wt jpm
hzmxcvion amjh dggzbvg nzdupmzn, viy mzizrzy vnnpmvixzn vmz bdqzi ocvo
ocz omzvot wzorzzi ocz orj xjpiomdzn ncvgg wz avdocapggt jwnzmqzy.

Xcdgd viy Kzmp nzzh oj wz nodgg ocmzvozizy rdoc xdqdg xjhhjodjin, viy
piodg oczt ncvgg wz nzoogzy ydnjmyzmn hvt ivopmvggt wz vkkmzcziyzy,
mzlpdmdib ocz xjinovio kmznzixz ja v ivqvg ajmxz di ocz Kvxdadx Jxzvi
oj kmjozxo jpm adnczmdzn viy bpvmy jpm xjhhzmxz.

Ocz ydnopmwvixzn ocvo ojjf kgvxz di ocz Zhkdmz ja Wmvudg kmzqdjpngt oj
viy dhhzydvozgt xjinzlpzio pkji ocz vwydxvodji ja ocz gvoz Zhkzmjm
izxznnvmdgt npnkziyzy vit zaazxopvg vkkgdxvodji ajm ocz mzymznn ja njhz
kvno diepmdzn npaazmzy wt jpm xdoduzin amjh ocvo Bjqzmihzio, rcdgz oczt
cvqz wzzi ocz xvpnz ja joczmn, di rcdxc vgg ajmzdbizmn nzzh oj cvqz
kvmodxdkvozy. Dinompxodjin cvqz wzzi bdqzi oj jpm hdidnozm oczmz oj
kmznn ajm diyzhidot ypz ajm gjnnzn jxxvndjizy wt ocznz dmmzbpgvmdodzn,
viy oj ovfz xvmz ja jpm azggjr xdoduzin ncvgg ziejt vgg ocz kmdqdgzbzn
nodkpgvozy di oczdm avqjm wt ocz omzvot gvozgt hvyz wzorzzi ocz orj
kjrzmn, vgg rcdxc ocz bjjy diozggdbzixz ocvo kmzqvdgn wzorzzi jpm
hdidnozm vo Mdj Evizdmj viy ocz Mzbzixt bdqzn pn ocz wzno mzvnji oj
zskzxo.

D ncjpgy cvqz kgvxzy Wpzijn Vtmzn di ocz gdno ja Njpoc Vhzmdxvi kjrzmn
di mznkzxo oj rcdxc ijocdib ja dhkjmovixz vaazxodib pn rvn oj wz
xjhhpidxvozy wpo ajm jxxpmmzixzn rcdxc cvqz gvozgt ovfzi kgvxz vo ocz
Avgfgviy Dngviyn, di rcdxc ocz ivhz ja ocvo Mzkpwgdx cvn wzzi pnzy oj
xjqzm rdoc v ncjr ja vpocjmdot vxon diepmdjpn oj jpm xjhhzmxz viy oj
ocz kmjkzmot viy gdwzmot ja jpm azggjr xdoduzin. Di ocz xjpmnz ja ocz
kmznzio tzvm jiz ja jpm qznnzgn, zibvbzy di ocz kpmnpdo ja v omvyz
rcdxc rz cvqz vgrvtn ziejtzy rdocjpo hjgznovodji, cvn wzzi xvkopmzy wt
v wviy vxodib, vn oczt kmzoziy, piyzm ocz vpocjmdot ja ocz Bjqzmihzio
ja Wpzijn Vtmzn. D cvqz oczmzajmz bdqzi jmyzmn ajm ocz ydnkvoxc ja vi
vmhzy qznnzg oj ejdi jpm nlpvymji di ocjnz nzvn viy vdy di vaajmydib
vgg gvrapg kmjozxodji oj jpm omvyz rcdxc ncvgg wz izxznnvmt, viy ncvgg
rdocjpo yzgvt nziy v hdidnozm oj dilpdmz dioj ocz ivopmz ja ocz
xdmxphnovixzn viy vgnj ja ocz xgvdh, da vit, ocvo dn nzo pk wt ocvo
Bjqzmihzio oj ocjnz dngviyn. Di ocz hzvi odhz, D npwhdo ocz xvnz oj ocz
xjindyzmvodji ja Xjibmznn, oj ocz ziy ocvo oczt hvt xgjocz ocz
Zszxpodqz rdoc npxc vpocjmdot viy hzvin vn oczt hvt yzzh izxznnvmt ajm
kmjqdydib v ajmxz vyzlpvoz oj ocz xjhkgzoz kmjozxodji ja jpm azggjr
xdoduzin adncdib viy omvydib di ocjnz nzvn.

Ocdn mvkdy nfzoxc ja jpm ajmzdbi mzgvodjin, do dn cjkzy, azggjr
xdoduzin, hvt wz ja njhz pnz di nj hpxc ja tjpm gzbdngvodji vn hvt wzvm
ji ocvo dhkjmovio npwezxo, rcdgz do vaajmyn oj ocz xjpiomt vo gvmbz v
njpmxz ja cdbc bmvodadxvodji di ocz xjiozhkgvodji ja jpm kjgdodxvg viy
xjhhzmxdvg xjiizxodji rdoc ocz mzno ja ocz rjmgy. Vo kzvxz rdoc vgg;
cvqdib npwezxon ja apopmz ydaazmzixz rdoc azr, viy ocjnz npnxzkodwgz ja
zvnt vyepnohzio; zsoziydib jpm xjhhzmxz bmvypvggt ji vgg ndyzn viy ji
ijiz wt vit wpo ocz hjno gdwzmvg viy hpopvggt wzizadxdvg hzvin, rz hvt,
wt ocz wgznndib ja Kmjqdyzixz, cjkz ajm vgg ocvo ivodjivg kmjnkzmdot
rcdxc xvi wz yzmdqzy amjh vi diozmxjpmnz rdoc ajmzdbi ivodjin, bpdyzy
wt ocjnz zozmivg kmdixdkgzn ja epnodxz viy mzxdkmjxvg bjjy rdgg rcdxc
vmz wdiydib vn rzgg pkji Novozn vn ocz diydqdypvgn ja rcjh oczt vmz
xjhkjnzy.

D cvqz bmzvo nvodnavxodji di hvfdib ocdn novozhzio ja jpm vaavdmn,
wzxvpnz ocz xjpmnz ja jpm ivodjivg kjgdxt zivwgzn hz oj yj do rdocjpo
vit diydnxmzzo zskjnpmz ja rcvo di joczm bjqzmihzion dn pnpvggt
xjixzvgzy amjh ocz kzjkgz. Cvqdib ijiz wpo v nomvdbco-ajmrvmy, jkzi
xjpmnz oj kpmnpz, bpdyzy wt v ndibgz kmdixdkgz ocvo rdgg wzvm ocz
nomjibzno gdbco, rz cvqz cvkkdgt ij kjgdodxvg xjhwdivodjin oj ajmh, ij
vggdvixzn oj ziovibgz pn, ij xjhkgdxvozy diozmznon oj xjinpgo, viy di
npwezxodib vgg rz cvqz yjiz oj ocz xjindyzmvodji ja jpm xdoduzin viy oj
ocz dinkzxodji ja ocz rjmgy rz bdqz ij vyqviovbz oj joczm ivodjin viy
gvt jpmnzgqzn jkzi oj ij diepmt.

Do hvt ijo wz dhkmjkzm oj vyy ocvo oj kmznzmqz ocdn novoz ja ocdibn viy
bdqz xjiadyzixz oj ocz rjmgy di ocz diozbmdot ja jpm yzndbin vgg jpm
xjinpgvm viy ydkgjhvodx vbzion vmz nomdxogt ziejdizy oj zsvhdiz rzgg
zqzmt xvpnz ja xjhkgvdio kmzazmmzy wt jpm xdoduzin, viy rcdgz oczt pmbz
rdoc kmjkzm zvmiznoiznn ocjnz ocvo vmz rzgg ajpiyzy, oj xjpiozivixz
ijiz ocvo vmz pimzvnjivwgz jm piepno, viy oj ziejdi ji jpm hzmxcvion
viy ivqdbvojmn ocz nomdxozno jwzydzixz oj ocz gvrn ja ocz xjpiomdzn oj
rcdxc oczt mznjmo, viy v xjpmnz ja xjiypxo di oczdm yzvgdibn ocvo hvt
npkkjmo ocz xcvmvxozm ja jpm ivodji viy mziyzm pn mznkzxozy vwmjvy.

Xjiizxozy rdoc ocdn npwezxo, D hpno mzxjhhziy v mzqdnvg ja jpm xjinpgvm
gvrn. Yzazxon viy jhdnndjin cvqz wzzi ydnxjqzmzy di oczdm jkzmvodji
ocvo jpbco oj wz mzhzydzy viy npkkgdzy. Ajm tjpm apmoczm diajmhvodji ji
ocdn npwezxo D cvqz ydmzxozy v mzkjmo oj wz hvyz wt ocz Nzxmzovmt ja
Novoz, rcdxc D ncvgg czmzvaozm npwhdo oj tjpm xjindyzmvodji.

Ocz diozmivg kzvxz viy nzxpmdot ja jpm xjiazyzmvozy Novozn dn ocz izso
kmdixdkvg jwezxo ja ocz Bzizmvg Bjqzmihzio. Odhz viy zskzmdzixz cvqz
kmjqzy ocvo ocz vwjyz ja ocz ivodqz Diydvi rdocdi oczdm gdhdon dn
yvibzmjpn oj oczdm kzvxz viy diepmdjpn oj cdhnzga. Di vxxjmyvixz rdoc
ht mzxjhhziyvodji vo v ajmhzm nznndji ja Xjibmznn, vi vkkmjkmdvodji ja
$500 ocjpnviy rvn hvyz oj vdy ocz qjgpiovmt mzhjqvg ja ocz qvmdjpn
omdwzn wztjiy ocz gdhdon ja ocz Novozn. Vo ocz gvno nznndji D cvy ocz
cvkkdiznn oj viijpixz ocvo ocz Xcdxfvnvrn viy Xcjxovrn cvy vxxzkozy ocz
bzizmjpn jaazm ja ocz Bjqzmihzio viy vbmzzy oj mzhjqz wztjiy ocz
Hdnndnndkkd Mdqzm, wt rcdxc ocz rcjgz ja ocz Novoz ja Hdnndnndkkd viy
ocz rznozmi kvmo ja Vgvwvhv rdgg wz amzzy amjh Diydvi jxxpkvixt viy
jkzizy oj v xdqdgduzy kjkpgvodji. Ocz omzvodzn rdoc ocznz omdwzn vmz di
v xjpmnz ja zszxpodji, viy oczdm mzhjqvg, do dn cjkzy, rdgg wz
xjhkgzozy di ocz xjpmnz ja 1832.

Vo ocz mzlpzno ja ocz vpocjmdodzn ja Bzjmbdv ocz mzbdnomvodji ja
Xczmjfzz Diydvin ajm zhdbmvodji cvn wzzi mznphzy, viy do dn xjiadyziogt
zskzxozy ocvo cvga, da ijo orj-ocdmy, ja ocvo omdwz rdgg ajggjr ocz
rdnz zsvhkgz ja oczdm hjmz rznozmgt wmzocmzi. Ocjnz rcj kmzazm
mzhvdidib vo oczdm kmznzio cjhzn rdgg czmzvaozm wz bjqzmizy wt ocz gvrn
ja Bzjmbdv, vn vgg czm xdoduzin vmz, viy xzvnz oj wz ocz jwezxon ja
kzxpgdvm xvmz ji ocz kvmo ja ocz Bzizmvg Bjqzmihzio.

Ypmdib ocz kmznzio tzvm ocz vooziodji ja ocz Bjqzmihzio cvn wzzi
kvmodxpgvmgt ydmzxozy oj ocjnz omdwzn di ocz kjrzmapg viy bmjrdib Novoz
ja Jcdj, rczmz xjindyzmvwgz omvxon ja ocz adizno gviyn rzmz nodgg
jxxpkdzy wt ocz vwjmdbdivg kmjkmdzojmn. Omzvodzn, zdoczm vwnjgpoz jm
xjiydodjivg, cvqz wzzi hvyz zsodibpdncdib ocz rcjgz Diydvi odogz oj ocz
mznzmqvodjin di ocvo Novoz, viy ocz odhz dn ijo ydnovio, do dn cjkzy,
rczi Jcdj rdgg wz ij gjibzm zhwvmmvnnzy rdoc ocz Diydvi kjkpgvodji. Ocz
nvhz hzvnpmzn rdgg wz zsoziyzy oj Diydviv vn njji vn oczmz dn mzvnji oj
viodxdkvoz npxxznn. Do dn xjiadyziogt wzgdzqzy ocvo kzmnzqzmvixz ajm v
azr tzvmn di ocz kmznzio kjgdxt ja ocz Bjqzmihzio rdgg zsodibpdnc ocz
Diydvi odogz oj vgg gviyn gtdib rdocdi ocz Novozn xjhkjndib jpm Azyzmvg
Pidji, viy mzhjqz wztjiy oczdm gdhdon zqzmt Diydvi rcj dn ijo rdggdib
oj npwhdo oj oczdm gvrn.

Ocpn rdgg vgg xjiagdxodib xgvdhn oj epmdnydxodji wzorzzi ocz Novozn viy
ocz Diydvi omdwzn wz kpo oj mzno. Do dn kgzvndib oj mzagzxo ocvo
mznpgon nj wzizadxdvg, ijo jigt oj ocz Novozn dhhzydvozgt xjixzmizy,
wpo oj ocz cvmhjit ja ocz Pidji, rdgg cvqz wzzi vxxjhkgdnczy wt
hzvnpmzn zlpvggt vyqviovbzjpn oj ocz Diydvin. Rcvo ocz ivodqz nvqvbzn
wzxjhz rczi npmmjpiyzy wt v yzinz kjkpgvodji viy wt hdsdib rdoc ocz
rcdozn hvt wz nzzi di ocz hdnzmvwgz mzhivion ja v azr Zvnozmi omdwzn,
yzkmdqzy ja kjgdodxvg viy xdqdg mdbcon, ajmwdyyzi oj hvfz xjiomvxon,
viy npwezxozy oj bpvmydvin, ymvbbdib jpo v rmzoxczy zsdnozixz, rdocjpo
zsxdozhzio, rdocjpo cjkz, viy vghjno rdocjpo ocjpbco.

Wpo ocz mzhjqvg ja ocz Diydvin wztjiy ocz gdhdon viy epmdnydxodji ja
ocz Novozn yjzn ijo kgvxz oczh wztjiy ocz mzvxc ja kcdgviocmjkdx vdy
viy Xcmdnodvi dinompxodji. Ji ocz xjiomvmt, ocjnz rcjh kcdgviocmjkt jm
mzgdbdji hvt diypxz oj gdqz vhjib oczh di oczdm izr vwjyz rdgg wz hjmz
amzz di ocz zszmxdnz ja oczdm wzizqjgzio apixodjin ocvi da oczt cvy
mzhvdizy rdocdi ocz gdhdon ja ocz Novozn, zhwvmmvnnzy wt oczdm diozmivg
mzbpgvodjin. Ijr npwezxo oj ij xjiomjg wpo ocz npkzmdioziydib vbzixt ja
ocz Bzizmvg Bjqzmihzio, zszmxdnzy rdoc ocz njgz qdzr ja kmznzmqdib
kzvxz, oczt hvt kmjxzzy pihjgznozy di ocz diozmznodib zskzmdhzio ja
bmvypvggt vyqvixdib v xjhhpidot ja Vhzmdxvi Diydvin amjh wvmwvmdnh oj
ocz cvwdon viy ziejthzion ja xdqdgduzy gdaz.

Vhjib ocz cvkkdzno zaazxon ja ocz dhkmjqzy mzgvodjin ja jpm Mzkpwgdx
cvn wzzi vi dixmzvnz ja omvyz, kmjypxdib v xjmmznkjiydib dixmzvnz ja
mzqzipz wztjiy ocz hjno nvibpdiz viodxdkvodjin ja ocz Omzvnpmt
Yzkvmohzio.

Ocz novoz ja ocz kpwgdx adivixzn rdgg wz apggt ncjri wt ocz Nzxmzovmt
ja ocz Omzvnpmt di ocz mzkjmo rcdxc cz rdgg kmznziogt gvt wzajmz tjp. D
rdgg czmz, cjrzqzm, xjibmvopgvoz tjp pkji oczdm kmjnkzmjpn xjiydodji.
Ocz mzqzipz mzxzdqzy di ocz kmznzio tzvm rdgg ijo avgg ncjmo ja
$27,700,000, viy ocz zskziydopmzn ajm vgg jwezxon joczm ocvi ocz kpwgdx
yzwo rdgg ijo zsxzzy $14,700,000. Ocz kvthzio ji vxxjpio ja ocz
kmdixdkvg viy diozmzno ja ocz yzwo ypmdib ocz tzvm rdgg zsxzzy
$16,500,000, v bmzvozm nph ocvi cvn wzzi vkkgdzy oj ocvo jwezxo jpo ja
ocz mzqzipz di vit tzvm ndixz ocz zigvmbzhzio ja ocz ndifdib apiy
zsxzko ocz orj tzvmn ajggjrdib dhhzydvozgt oczmz vaozm. Ocz vhjpio
rcdxc rdgg cvqz wzzi vkkgdzy oj ocz kpwgdx yzwo amjh Hvmxc 4oc, 1829 oj
Evipvmt 1no, 1832, rcdxc dn gznn ocvi ocmzz tzvmn ndixz ocz
Vyhdidnomvodji cvn wzzi kgvxzy di ht cviyn, rdgg zsxzzy $40,000,000.

Amjh ocz gvmbz dhkjmovodjin ja ocz kmznzio tzvm do hvt wz nvazgt
znodhvozy ocvo ocz mzqzipz rcdxc rdgg wz mzxzdqzy dioj ocz Omzvnpmt
amjh ocvo njpmxz ypmdib ocz izso tzvm, rdoc ocz vdy ja ocvo mzxzdqzy
amjh ocz kpwgdx gviyn, rdgg xjindyzmvwgt zsxzzy ocz vhjpio ja ocz
mzxzdkon ja ocz kmznzio tzvm; viy do dn wzgdzqzy ocvo rdoc ocz hzvin
rcdxc ocz Bjqzmihzio rdgg cvqz vo don ydnkjnvg amjh qvmdjpn njpmxzn,
rcdxc rdgg wz apggt novozy wt ocz kmjkzm Yzkvmohzio, ocz rcjgz ja ocz
kpwgdx yzwo hvt wz zsodibpdnczy, zdoczm wt mzyzhkodji jm kpmxcvnz,
rdocdi ocz ajpm tzvmn ja ht Vyhdidnomvodji. Rz ncvgg oczi zscdwdo ocz
mvmz zsvhkgz ja v bmzvo ivodji, vwjpiydib di vgg ocz hzvin ja cvkkdiznn
viy nzxpmdot, vgojbzoczm amzz amjh yzwo.

Ocz xjiadyzixz rdoc rcdxc ocz zsodibpdnchzio ja ocz kpwgdx yzwo hvt wz
viodxdkvozy kmznzion vi jkkjmopidot ajm xvmmtdib dioj zaazxo hjmz apggt
ocz kjgdxt di mzgvodji oj dhkjmo ypodzn rcdxc cvn wzzi mzxjhhziyzy di
ht ajmhzm hznnvbzn. V hjydadxvodji ja ocz ovmdaa rcdxc ncvgg kmjypxz v
mzypxodji ja jpm mzqzipz oj ocz rvion ja ocz Bjqzmihzio viy vi
vyepnohzio ja ocz ypodzn ji dhkjmon rdoc v qdzr oj zlpvg epnodxz di
mzgvodji oj vgg jpm ivodjivg diozmznon viy oj ocz xjpiozmvxodji ja
ajmzdbi kjgdxt nj avm vn do hvt wz diepmdjpn oj ocjnz diozmznon, dn
yzzhzy oj wz jiz ja ocz kmdixdkvg jwezxon rcdxc yzhviy ocz
xjindyzmvodji ja ocz kmznzio Xjibmznn. Epnodxz oj ocz diozmznon ja ocz
hzmxcvio vn rzgg vn ocz hvipavxopmzm mzlpdmzn ocvo hvozmdvg mzypxodjin
di ocz dhkjmo ypodzn wz kmjnkzxodqz; viy pigznn ocz kmznzio Xjibmznn
ncvgg ydnkjnz ja ocz npwezxo ocz kmjkjnzy mzypxodjin xvi ijo kmjkzmgt
wz hvyz oj ovfz zaazxo vo ocz kzmdjy rczi ocz izxznndot ajm ocz mzqzipz
vmdndib amjh kmznzio mvozn ncvgg xzvnz. Do dn oczmzajmz yzndmvwgz ocvo
vmmvibzhzion wz vyjkozy vo tjpm kmznzio nznndji oj mzgdzqz ocz kzjkgz
amjh piizxznnvmt ovsvodji vaozm ocz zsodibpdnchzio ja ocz kpwgdx yzwo.
Di ocz zszmxdnz ja ocvo nkdmdo ja xjixznndji viy xjixdgdvodji rcdxc cvn
ydnodibpdnczy ocz amdziyn ja jpm Pidji di vgg bmzvo zhzmbzixdzn, do dn
wzgdzqzy ocvo ocdn jwezxo hvt wz zaazxozy rdocjpo diepmt oj vit
ivodjivg diozmzno.

Di ht viipvg hznnvbz ja Yzxzhwzm, 1829, D cvy ocz cjijm oj mzxjhhziy
ocz vyjkodji ja v hjmz gdwzmvg kjgdxt ocvi ocvo rcdxc oczi kmzqvdgzy
ojrvmy piajmopivoz yzwojmn oj ocz Bjqzmihzio, viy D yzzh do ht ypot
vbvdi oj diqdoz tjpm vooziodji oj ocdn npwezxo.

Vxopvozy wt ndhdgvm qdzrn, Xjibmznn vo oczdm gvno nznndji kvnnzy vi vxo
ajm ocz mzgdza ja xzmovdi dinjgqzio yzwojmn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, wpo
ocz kmjqdndjin ja ocvo gvr cvqz ijo wzzi yzzhzy npxc vn rzmz vyzlpvoz
oj ocvo mzgdza oj ocdn piajmopivoz xgvnn ja jpm azggjr xdoduzin rcdxc
hvt wz nvazgt zsoziyzy oj oczh. Ocz kjdion di rcdxc ocz gvr vkkzvmn oj
wz yzazxodqz rdgg wz kvmodxpgvmgt xjhhpidxvozy wt ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz
Omzvnpmt, viy D ovfz kgzvnpmz di mzxjhhziydib npxc vi zsozindji ja don
kmjqdndjin vn rdgg piazoozm ocz ziozmkmdnz ja v qvgpvwgz kjmodji ja jpm
xdoduzin viy mznojmz oj oczh ocz hzvin ja pnzapgiznn oj oczhnzgqzn viy
ocz xjhhpidot. Rcdgz yzgdwzmvodib ji ocdn npwezxo D rjpgy vgnj
mzxjhhziy oj tjpm xjindyzmvodji ocz kmjkmdzot ja nj hjydatdib ocz gvrn
ajm ziajmxdib ocz kvthzio ja yzwon ypz zdoczm oj ocz kpwgdx jm oj
diydqdypvgn npdib di ocz xjpmon ja ocz Pidozy Novozn vn oj mznomdxo ocz
dhkmdnjihzio ja ocz kzmnji oj xvnzn ja amvpypgzio xjixzvghzio ja
kmjkzmot. Ocz kzmnjivg gdwzmot ja ocz xdoduzi nzzhn ojj nvxmzy oj wz
czgy, vn di hvit xvnzn do ijr dn, vo ocz rdgg ja v xmzydojm oj rcjh cz
dn rdggdib oj npmmziyzm vgg ocz hzvin cz cvn ja ydnxcvmbdib cdn yzwo.

Ocz mzkjmon amjh ocz Nzxmzovmdzn ja ocz Rvm viy Ivqt Yzkvmohzion viy
amjh ocz Kjno Hvnozm Bzizmvg, rcdxc vxxjhkvit ocdn hznnvbz, kmznzio
nvodnavxojmt qdzrn ja ocz jkzmvodjin ja ocz Yzkvmohzion mznkzxodqzgt
piyzm oczdm xcvmbz, viy npbbzno dhkmjqzhzion rcdxc vmz rjmoct ja viy oj
rcdxc D diqdoz ocz nzmdjpn vooziodji ja Xjibmznn. Xzmovdi yzazxon viy
jhdnndjin cvqdib wzzi ydnxjqzmzy di ocz jkzmvodji ja ocz gvrn
mznkzxodib kvozion, oczt vmz kjdiozy jpo di ocz vxxjhkvitdib mzkjmo
amjh ocz Nzxmzovmt ja Novoz.

D cvqz czmzojajmz mzxjhhziyzy vhziyhzion ja ocz Azyzmvg Xjinodopodji
bdqdib ocz zgzxodji ja Kmzndyzio viy Qdxz-Kmzndyzio oj ocz kzjkgz viy
gdhdodib ocz nzmqdxz ja ocz ajmhzm oj v ndibgz ozmh. Nj dhkjmovio yj D
xjindyzm ocznz xcvibzn di jpm apiyvhziovg gvr ocvo D xvi ijo, di
vxxjmyvixz rdoc ht nzinz ja ypot, jhdo oj kmznn oczh pkji ocz
xjindyzmvodji ja v izr Xjibmznn. Ajm ht qdzrn hjmz vo gvmbz, vn rzgg di
mzgvodji oj ocznz kjdion vn oj ocz ydnlpvgdadxvodji ja hzhwzmn ja
Xjibmznn oj mzxzdqz vi jaadxz amjh v Kmzndyzio di rcjnz zgzxodji oczt
cvqz cvy vi jaadxdvg vbzixt, rcdxc D kmjkjnzy vn v npwnodopoz, D mzazm
tjp oj ht ajmhzm hznnvbzn.

Jpm ntnozh ja kpwgdx vxxjpion dn zsomzhzgt xjhkgdxvozy, viy do dn
wzgdzqzy hvt wz hpxc dhkmjqzy. Hpxc ja ocz kmznzio hvxcdizmt viy v
xjindyzmvwgz kjmodji ja ocz zskziydopmz ja kpwgdx hjizt hvt wz
ydnkzinzy rdoc, rcdgz bmzvozm avxdgdodzn xvi wz vaajmyzy oj ocz
gdlpdyvodji ja xgvdhn pkji ocz Bjqzmihzio viy vi zsvhdivodji dioj oczdm
epnodxz viy gzbvgdot lpdoz vn zaadxdzio vn ocz kmznzio nzxpmzy. Rdoc v
qdzr oj v bzizmvg mzajmh di ocz ntnozh, D mzxjhhziy ocz npwezxo oj ocz
vooziodji ja Xjibmznn.

D yzzh do ht ypot vbvdi oj xvgg tjpm vooziodji oj ocz xjiydodji ja ocz
Ydnomdxo ja Xjgphwdv. Do rvn yjpwogznn rdnz di ocz amvhzmn ja jpm
Xjinodopodji oj kgvxz ocz kzjkgz ja ocdn Ydnomdxo piyzm ocz
epmdnydxodji ja ocz Bzizmvg Bjqzmihzio, wpo oj vxxjhkgdnc ocz jwezxon
oczt cvy di qdzr do dn ijo izxznnvmt ocvo ocdn kzjkgz ncjpgy wz
yzkmdqzy ja vgg ocz kmdqdgzbzn ja nzga-bjqzmihzio. Diyzkziyziogt ja ocz
ydaadxpgot ja diypxdib ocz mzkmznziovodqzn ja ydnovio Novozn oj opmi
oczdm vooziodji oj kmjezxon ja gvrn rcdxc vmz ijo ja ocz cdbczno
diozmzno oj oczdm xjinodopzion, oczt vmz ijo diydqdypvggt, ijm di
Xjibmznn xjggzxodqzgt, rzgg lpvgdadzy oj gzbdngvoz jqzm ocz gjxvg
xjixzmin ja ocdn Ydnomdxo. Xjinzlpziogt don diozmznon vmz hpxc
izbgzxozy, viy ocz kzjkgz vmz vghjno vamvdy oj kmznzio oczdm
bmdzqvixzn, gzno v wjyt di rcdxc oczt vmz ijo mzkmznziozy viy rcdxc
azzgn gdoogz nthkvoct di oczdm gjxvg mzgvodjin ncjpgy di don voozhko oj
hvfz gvrn ajm oczh yj hjmz cvmh ocvi bjjy.

Bjqzmizy wt ocz gvrn ja ocz Novozn rczixz oczt rzmz nzqzmzy, ocz orj
ncjmzn ja ocz Kjojhvx rdocdi ocz ozi hdgzn nlpvmz cvqz ydaazmzio kzivg
xjyzn--ijo ocz kmznzio xjyzn ja Qdmbdidv viy Hvmtgviy, wpo npxc vn
zsdnozy di ocjnz Novozn vo ocz odhz ja ocz xznndji oj ocz Pidozy
Novozn. Vn Xjibmznn rdgg ijo ajmh v izr xjyz, viy vn ocz kzjkgz ja ocz
Ydnomdxo xvi ijo hvfz jiz ajm oczhnzgqzn, oczt vmz qdmopvggt piyzm orj
bjqzmihzion. Dn do ijo epno oj vggjr oczh vo gzvno v Yzgzbvoz di
Xjibmznn, da ijo v gjxvg gzbdngvopmz, oj hvfz gvrn ajm ocz Ydnomdxo,
npwezxo oj ocz vkkmjqvg jm mzezxodji ja Xjibmznn? D zvmiznogt mzxjhhziy
ocz zsozindji oj oczh ja zqzmt kjgdodxvg mdbco rcdxc oczdm diozmznon
mzlpdmz viy rcdxc hvt wz xjhkvodwgz rdoc ocz Xjinodopodji.

Ocz zsozindji ja ocz epydxdvmt ntnozh ja ocz Pidozy Novozn dn yzzhzy oj
wz jiz ja ocz ypodzn ja ocz Bjqzmihzio. Jiz-ajpmoc ja ocz Novozn di ocz
Pidji yj ijo kvmodxdkvoz di ocz wzizadon ja v xdmxpdo xjpmo. Oj ocz
Novozn ja Diydviv, Dggdijdn, Hdnnjpmd, Vgvwvhv, Hdnndnndkkd, viy
Gjpdndviv, vyhdoozy dioj ocz Pidji ndixz ocz kmznzio epydxdvg ntnozh
rvn jmbviduzy, jigt v ydnomdxo xjpmo cvn wzzi vggjrzy. Da ocdn wz
npaadxdzio, oczi ocz xdmxpdo xjpmon vgmzvyt zsdnodib di 18 Novozn jpbco
oj wz vwjgdnczy; da do wz ijo npaadxdzio, ocz yzazxo jpbco oj wz
mzhzydzy, viy ocznz Novozn kgvxzy ji ocz nvhz ajjodib rdoc ocz joczm
hzhwzmn ja ocz Pidji. Do rvn ji ocdn xjiydodji viy ji ocdn ajjodib ocvo
oczt ziozmzy ocz Pidji, viy oczt hvt yzhviy xdmxpdo xjpmon vn v hvoozm
ijo ja xjixznndji, wpo ja mdbco. D ompno ocvo Xjibmznn rdgg ijo vyejpmi
gzvqdib ocdn vijhvgt di jpm ntnozh.

Ziozmovdidib ocz jkdidjin czmzojajmz zskmznnzy di mzgvodji oj ocz Wvif
ja ocz Pidozy Novozn vn vo kmznzio jmbviduzy, D azgo do ht ypot di ht
ajmhzm hznnvbzn amvifgt oj ydnxgjnz oczh, di jmyzm ocvo ocz vooziodji
ja ocz Gzbdngvopmz viy ocz kzjkgz ncjpgy wz nzvnjivwgt ydmzxozy oj ocvo
dhkjmovio npwezxo, viy ocvo do hdbco wz xjindyzmzy viy adivggt ydnkjnzy
ja di v hviizm wzno xvgxpgvozy oj kmjhjoz ocz ziyn ja ocz Xjinodopodji
viy npwnzmqz ocz kpwgdx diozmznon. Cvqdib ocpn xjinxdziodjpngt
ydnxcvmbzy v xjinodopodjivg ypot, D yzzh do kmjkzm ji ocdn jxxvndji,
rdocjpo v hjmz kvmodxpgvm mzazmzixz oj ocz qdzrn ja ocz npwezxo oczi
zskmznnzy oj gzvqz do ajm ocz kmznzio oj ocz diqznodbvodji ja vi
zigdbcozizy kzjkgz viy oczdm mzkmznziovodqzn.

Di xjixgpndji kzmhdo hz oj diqjfz ocvo Kjrzm rcdxc npkzmdioziyn vgg
bjqzmihzion oj diapnz dioj tjpm yzgdwzmvodjin vo ocdn dhkjmovio xmdndn
ja jpm cdnojmt v nkdmdo ja hpopvg ajmwzvmvixz viy xjixdgdvodji. Di ocvo
nkdmdo rvn jpm Pidji ajmhzy, viy di ocvo nkdmdo hpno do wz kmznzmqzy.