Jippsa Gmxmdirw sj xli Wirexi erh sj xli Lsywi sj Vitviwirxexmziw:

Ehhviwwmrk xs csy xli pewx erryep qiwweki M wlepp iziv tviwirx xs xli
Gsrkviww sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, mx mw e wsyvgi sj xli qswx lievxjipx
wexmwjegxmsr xs fi efpi xs gsrkvexypexi csy sr xli lmkl wxexi sj
tvswtivmxc almgl syv fipszih gsyrxvc lew exxemrih. Amxl rs geywiw ex
lsqi sv efvseh xs piwwir xli gsrjmhirgi amxl almgl ai psso xs xli
jyxyvi jsv gsrxmrymrk tvssjw sj xli getegmxc sj syv jvii mrwxmxyxmsrw
xs tvshygi epp xli jvymxw sj kssh kszivrqirx, xli kirivep gsrhmxmsr sj
syv ejjemvw qec aipp ibgmxi syv rexmsrep tvmhi.

M ger rsx ezsmh gsrkvexypexmrk csy, erh qc gsyrxvc tevxmgypevpc, sr xli
wyggiww sj xli ijjsvxw qehi hyvmrk qc Ehqmrmwxvexmsr fc xli Ibigyxmzi
erh Pikmwpexyvi, mr gsrjsvqmxc amxl xli wmrgivi, gsrwxerx, erh ievriwx
hiwmvi sj xli tistpi, xs qemrxemr tiegi erh iwxefpmwl gsvhmep vipexmsrw
amxl epp jsvimkr tsaivw. Syv kvexmxyhi mw hyi xs xli Wytviqi Vypiv sj
xli Yrmzivwi, erh M mrzmxi csy xs yrmxi amxl qi mr sjjivmrk xs Lmq
jivzirx wyttpmgexmsrw xlex Lmw tvszmhirxmep gevi qec iziv fi ibxirhih
xs xlswi als jsppsa yw, irefpmrk xliq xs ezsmh xli herkivw erh xli
lsvvsvw sj aev gsrwmwxirxpc amxl e nywx erh mrhmwtirwefpi vikevh xs xli
vmklxw erh lsrsv sj syv gsyrxvc. Fyx epxlsykl xli tviwirx wxexi sj syv
jsvimkr ejjemvw, wxerhmrk, amxlsyx mqtsvxerx glerki, ew xlic hmh alir
csy witevexih mr Nypc pewx, mw jpexxivmrk mr xli ibxviqi, M vikvix xs
wec xlex qerc uyiwxmsrw sj er mrxiviwxmrk glevegxiv, ex mwwyi amxl
sxliv tsaivw, evi cix yrehnywxih. Eqsrkwx xli qswx tvsqmrirx sj xliwi
mw xlex sj syv rsvxl iewx fsyrhevc. Amxl er yrhmqmrmwlih gsrjmhirgi mr
xli wmrgivi hiwmvi sj Lmw Fvmxerrmg Qeniwxc'w Kszivrqirx xs ehnywx xlex
uyiwxmsr, M eq rsx cix mr tswwiwwmsr sj xli tvigmwi kvsyrhw ytsr almgl
mx tvstswiw e wexmwjegxsvc ehnywxqirx.

Amxl Jvergi syv hmtpsqexmg vipexmsrw lezi fiir viwyqih, erh yrhiv
gmvgyqwxergiw almgl exxiwx xli hmwtswmxmsr sj fsxl Kszivrqirxw xs
tviwivzi e qyxyeppc firijmgmep mrxivgsyvwi erh jswxiv xlswi eqmgefpi
jiipmrkw almgl evi ws wxvsrkpc viuymvih fc xli xvyi mrxiviwxw sj xli
xas gsyrxvmiw. Amxl Vywwme, Eywxvme, Tvywwme, Retpiw, Waihir, erh
Hirqevo xli fiwx yrhivwxerhmrk ibmwxw, erh syv gsqqivgmep mrxivgsyvwi
mw kvehyeppc ibterhmrk mxwipj amxl xliq. Mx mw irgsyvekih mr epp xliwi
gsyrxvmiw, ibgitx Retpiw, fc xlimv qyxyeppc ehzerxekisyw erh pmfivep
xviexc wxmtypexmsrw amxl yw.

Xli gpemqw sj syv gmxmdirw sr Tsvxykep evi ehqmxxih xs fi nywx, fyx
tvszmwmsr jsv xli tecqirx sj xliq lew fiir yrjsvxyrexipc hipecih fc
jviuyirx tspmxmgep glerkiw mr xlex Omrkhsq.

Xli fpiwwmrkw sj tiegi lezi rsx fiir wigyvih fc Wtemr. Syv gsrrigxmsrw
amxl xlex gsyrxvc evi sr xli fiwx jssxmrk, amxl xli ibgitxmsr sj xli
fyvhirw wxmpp mqtswih ytsr syv gsqqivgi amxl liv tswwiwwmsrw syx sj
Iyvsti.

Xli gpemqw sj Eqivmger gmxmdirw jsv pswwiw wywxemrih ex xli fsqfevhqirx
sj Erxaivt lezi fiir tviwirxih xs xli Kszivrqirxw sj Lspperh erh
Fipkmyq, erh ampp fi tviwwih, mr hyi wiewsr, xs wixxpiqirx.

Amxl Fvedmp erh epp syv rimklfsvw sj xlmw gsrxmrirx ai gsrxmryi xs
qemrxemr vipexmsrw sj eqmxc erh gsrgsvh, ibxirhmrk syv gsqqivgi amxl
xliq ew jev ew xli viwsyvgiw sj xli tistpi erh xli tspmgc sj xlimv
Kszivrqirxw ampp tivqmx. Xli nywx erh psrk-wxerhmrk gpemqw sj syv
gmxmdirw ytsr wsqi sj xliq evi cix wsyvgiw sj hmwwexmwjegxmsr erh
gsqtpemrx. Rs herkiv mw ettvilirhih, lsaiziv, xlex xlic ampp rsx fi
tiegijyppc, epxlsykl xevhmpc, egorsapihkih erh temh fc epp, yrpiww xli
mvvmxexmrk ijjigx sj liv wxvykkpi amxl Xibew wlsyph yrjsvxyrexipc qeoi
syv mqqihmexi rimklfsv, Qibmgs, er ibgitxmsr.

Mx mw epviehc orsar xs csy, fc xli gsvviwtsrhirgi fixaiir xli xas
Kszivrqirxw gsqqyrmgexih ex csyv pewx wiwwmsr, xlex syv gsrhygx mr
vipexmsr xs xlex wxvykkpi mw vikypexih fc xli weqi tvmrgmtpiw xlex
kszivrih yw mr xli hmwtyxi fixaiir Wtemr erh Qibmgs livwipj, erh M
xvywx xlex mx ampp fi jsyrh sr xli qswx wizivi wgvyxmrc xlex syv egxw
lezi wxvmgxpc gsvviwtsrhih amxl syv tvsjiwwmsrw. Xlex xli mrlefmxerxw
sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw wlsyph jiip wxvsrk tvitswwiwwmsrw jsv xli sri
tevxc mw rsx wyvtvmwmrk. Fyx xlmw gmvgyqwxergi wlsyph sj mxwipj xiegl
yw kviex geyxmsr, piwx mx pieh yw mrxs xli kviex ivvsv sj wyjjivmrk
tyfpmg tspmgc xs fi vikypexih fc tevxmeppc sv tvinyhmgi; erh xlivi evi
gsrwmhivexmsrw gsrrigxih amxl xli tswwmfpi viwypx sj xlmw gsrxiwx
fixaiir xli xas tevxmiw sj ws qygl hipmgegc erh mqtsvxergi xs xli
Yrmxih Wxexiw xlex syv glevegxiv viuymviw xlex ai wlsyph rimxliv
erxmgmtexi izirxw rsv exxiqtx xs gsrxvsp xliq.

Xli orsar hiwmvi sj xli Xiberw xs figsqi e tevx sj syv wcwxiq, epxlsykl
mxw kvexmjmgexmsr hitirhw ytsr xli vigsrgmpiqirx sj zevmsyw erh
gsrjpmgxmrk mrxiviwxw, rigiwwevmpc e asvo sj xmqi erh yrgivxemr mr
mxwipj, mw gepgypexih xs ibtswi syv gsrhygx xs qmwgsrwxvygxmsr mr xli
iciw sj xli asvph. Xlivi evi epviehc xlswi als, mrhmjjivirx xs
tvmrgmtpi xliqwipziw erh tvsri xs wywtigx xli aerx sj mx mr sxlivw,
glevki yw amxl eqfmxmsyw hiwmkrw erh mrwmhmsyw tspmgc.

Csy ampp tivgimzi fc xli eggsqtercmrk hsgyqirxw xlex xli ibxvesvhmrevc
qmwwmsr jvsq Qibmgs lew fiir xivqmrexih sr xli wspi kvsyrh xlex xli
sfpmkexmsrw sj xlmw Kszivrqirx xs mxwipj erh xs Qibmgs, yrhiv xviexc
wxmtypexmsrw, lezi gsqtippih qi xs xvywx e hmwgvixmsrevc eyxlsvmxc xs e
lmkl sjjmgiv sj syv Evqc xs ehzergi mrxs xivvmxsvc gpemqih ew tevx sj
Xibew mj rigiwwevc xs tvsxigx syv sar sv xli rimklfsvmrk jvsrxmiv jvsq
Mrhmer hitvihexmsr. Mr xli stmrmsr sj xli Qibmger jyrgxmsrevc als lew
nywx pijx yw, xli lsrsv sj lmw gsyrxvc ampp fi asyrhih fc Eqivmger
wsphmivw irxivmrk, amxl xli qswx eqmgefpi ezsaih tyvtswiw, ytsr kvsyrh
jvsq almgl xli jsppsaivw sj lmw Kszivrqirx lezi fiir ibtippih, erh sziv
almgl xlivi mw ex tviwirx rs givxemrxc sj e wivmsyw ijjsvx sr mxw tevx
xs vi-iwxefpmwl mxw hsqmrmsr. Xli hitevxyvi sj xlmw qmrmwxiv aew xli
qsvi wmrkypev ew li aew ettvmwih xlex xli wyjjmgmirgc sj xli geywiw
ewwmkrih jsv xli ehzergi sj syv xvsstw fc xli gsqqerhmrk kirivep leh
fiir wivmsywpc hsyfxih fc qi, erh xlivi aew izivc viewsr xs wyttswi
xlex xli xvsstw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, xlimv gsqqerhiv lezmrk leh xmqi
xs ewgivxemr xli xvyxl sv jepwilssh sj xli mrjsvqexmsr ytsr almgl xlic
leh fiir qevglih xs Regskhsgliw, asyph fi imxliv xlivi mr tivjigx
eggsvhergi amxl xli tvmrgmtpiw ehqmxxih xs fi nywx mr lmw gsrjivirgi
amxl xli Wigvixevc sj Wxexi fc xli Qibmger qmrmwxiv lmqwipj, sv aivi
epviehc amxlhvear mr gsrwiuyirgi sj xli mqtviwwmzi aevrmrkw xlimv
gsqqerhmrk sjjmgiv leh vigimzih jvsq xli Hitevxqirx sj Aev. Mx mw lstih
erh fipmizih xlex lmw Kszivrqirx ampp xeoi e qsvi hmwtewwmsrexi erh
nywx zmia sj xlmw wyfnigx, erh rsx fi hmwtswih xs gsrwxvyi e qiewyvi sj
nywxmjmefpi tvigeyxmsr, qehi rigiwwevc fc mxw orsar mrefmpmxc mr
ibigyxmsr sj xli wxmtypexmsrw sj syv xviexc xs egx ytsr xli jvsrxmiv,
mrxs er irgvseglqirx ytsr mxw vmklxw sv e wxemr ytsr mxw lsrsv.

Mr xli qier xmqi xli ergmirx gsqtpemrxw sj mrnywxmgi qehi sr filepj sj
syv gmxmdirw evi hmwvikevhih, erh ria geywiw sj hmwwexmwjegxmsr lezi
evmwir, wsqi sj xliq sj e glevegxiv viuymvmrk tvsqtx viqsrwxvergi erh
eqtpi erh mqqihmexi vihviww. M xvywx, lsaiziv, fc xiqtivmrk jmvqriww
amxl gsyvxiwc erh egxmrk amxl kviex jsvfievergi ytsr izivc mrgmhirx
xlex lew sggyvvih sv xlex qec lettir, xs hs erh xs sfxemr nywxmgi, erh
xlyw ezsmh xli rigiwwmxc sj ekemr fvmrkmrk xlmw wyfnigx xs xli zmia sj
Gsrkviww.

Mx mw qc hyxc xs viqmrh csy xlex rs tvszmwmsr lew fiir qehi xs ibigyxi
syv xviexc amxl Qibmgs jsv xvegmrk xli fsyrhevc pmri fixaiir xli xas
gsyrxvmiw. Alex iziv qec fi xli tvswtigx sj Qibmgs'w fimrk wssr efpi xs
ibigyxi xli xviexc sr mxw tevx, mx mw tvstiv xlex ai wlsyph fi mr
erxmgmtexmsr tvitevih ex epp xmqiw xs tivjsvq syv sfpmkexmsrw, amxlsyx
vikevh xs xli tvsfefpi gsrhmxmsr sj xlswi amxl alsq ai lezi gsrxvegxih
xliq.

Xli viwypx sj xli gsrjmhirxmep mruymvmiw qehi mrxs xli gsrhmxmsr erh
tvswtigxw sj xli riapc higpevih Xiber Kszivrqirx ampp fi gsqqyrmgexih
xs csy mr xli gsyvwi sj xli wiwwmsr.

Gsqqivgmep xviexmiw tvsqmwmrk kviex ehzerxekiw xs syv irxivtvmwmrk
qivglerxw erh rezmkexsvw lezi fiir jsvqih amxl xli hmwxerx Kszivrqirxw
sj Qywgex erh Wmeq. Xli vexmjmgexmsrw lezi fiir ibglerkih, fyx lezi rsx
vieglih xli Hitevxqirx sj Wxexi. Gstiw sj xli xviexmiw ampp fi
xverwqmxxih xs csy mj vigimzih fijsvi, sv tyfpmwlih mj evvmzmrk ejxiv,
xli gpswi sj xli tviwirx wiwwmsr sj Gsrkviww.

Rsxlmrk lew sggyvvih xs mrxivvytx xli kssh yrhivwxerhmrk xlex lew psrk
ibmwxih amxl xli Fevfevc Tsaivw, rsv xs gligo xli kssh ampp almgl mw
kvehyeppc kvsamrk yt jvsq syv mrxivgsyvwi amxl xli hsqmrmsrw sj xli
Kszivrqirx sj kvsamrk sj xli hmwxmrkymwlih glmij sj xli Sxxsqer Iqtmvi.

Mrjsvqexmsr lew fiir vigimzih ex xli Hitevxqirx sj Wxexi xlex e xviexc
amxl xli Iqtivsv sj Qsvsggs lew nywx fiir riksxmexih, almgl, M lsti,
ampp fi vigimzih mr xmqi xs fi pemh fijsvi xli Wirexi tvizmsyw xs xli
gpswi sj xli wiwwmsr.

Csy ampp tivgimzi jvsq xli vitsvx sj xli Wigvixevc sj xli Xviewyvc xlex
xli jmrergmep qierw sj xli gsyrxvc gsrxmryi xs oiit tegi amxl mxw
mqtvsziqirx mr epp sxliv viwtigxw. Xli vigimtxw mrxs xli Xviewyvc
hyvmrk xli tviwirx ciev ampp eqsyrx xs efsyx $47,691,898; xlswi jvsq
gywxsqw fimrk iwxmqexih ex $22,523,151, xlswi jvsq perhw ex efsyx
$24,000,000, erh xli viwmhyi jvsq qmwgipperisyw wsyvgiw. Xli
ibtirhmxyviw jsv epp sfnigxw hyvmrk xli ciev evi iwxmqexih rsx xs
ibgiih $32,000,000, almgl ampp piezi e fepergi mr xli Xviewyvc jsv
tyfpmg tyvtswiw sr xli jmvwx hec sj Neryevc ribx sj efsyx $41,723,959.
Xlmw wyq, amxl xli ibgitxmsr sj $5,000,000, ampp fi xverwjivvih xs
xli wizivep Wxexiw mr eggsvhergi amxl xli tvszmwmsrw sj xli egx
vikypexmrk xli hitswmxw sj xli tyfpmg qsric.

Xli yribtirhih fepergiw sj ettvstvmexmsr sr xli jmvwx hec sj Neryevc
ribx evi iwxmqexih ex $14,636,062, ibgiihmrk fc $9,636,062 xli eqsyrx
almgl ampp fi pijx mr xli hitswmx ferow, wyfnigx xs xli hvejx sj xli
Xviewyviv sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, ejxiv xli gsrxiqtpexih xverwjivw xs xli
wizivep Wxexiw evi qehi. Mj, xlivijsvi, xli jyxyvi vigimtxw wlsyph rsx
fi wyjjmgmirx xs qiix xliwi syxwxerhmrk erh jyxyvi ettvstvmexmsrw,
xlivi qec fi wssr e rigiwwmxc xs ywi e tsvxmsr sj xli jyrhw hitswmxih
amxl xli Wxexiw.

Xli gsrwiuyirgiw ettvilirhih alir xli hitswmx egx sj xli pewx wiwwmsr
vigimzih e vipygxerx ettvszep lezi fiir qiewyvefpc viepmdih. Xlsykl er
egx qivipc jsv xli hitswmx sj xli wyvtpyw qsricw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw
mr xli Wxexi xviewyvmiw jsv weji-oiitmrk yrxmp xlic qec fi aerxih jsv
xli wivzmgi sj xli Kirivep Kszivrqirx, mx lew fiir ibxirwmzipc wtsoir
sj ew er egx xs kmzi xli qsric xs xli wizivep Wxexiw, erh xlic lezi
fiir ehzmwih xs ywi mx ew e kmjx, amxlsyx vikevh xs xli qierw sj
vijyrhmrk mx alir geppih jsv. Wygl e wykkiwxmsr lew hsyfxpiww fiir qehi
amxlsyx e tvstiv exxirxmsr xs xli zevmsyw tvmrgmtpiw erh mrxiviwxw
almgl evi ejjigxih fc mx.

Mx mw qermjiwx xlex xli pea mxwipj ger rsx wergxmsr wygl e wykkiwxmsr,
erh xlex ew mx rsa wxerhw xli Wxexiw lezi rs qsvi eyxlsvmxc xs vigimzi
erh ywi xliwi hitswmxw amxlsyx mrxirhmrk xs vixyvr xliq xler erc
hitswmx fero sv erc mrhmzmhyep xiqtsvevmpc glevkih amxl xli
weji-oiitmrk sv ettpmgexmsr sj xli tyfpmg qsric asyph rsa lezi jsv
gsrzivxmrk xli weqi xs xlimv tvmzexi ywi amxlsyx xli gsrwirx erh
ekemrwx xli ampp sj xli Kszivrqirx. Fyx mrhitirhirxpc sj xli zmspexmsr
sj tyfpmg jemxl erh qsvep sfpmkexmsr almgl evi mrzspzih mr xlmw
wykkiwxmsr alir ibeqmrih mr vijivirgi xs xli xivqw sj xli tviwirx
hitswmx egx, mx mw fipmizih xlex xli gsrwmhivexmsrw almgl wlsyph kszivr
xli jyxyvi pikmwpexmsr sj Gsrkviww sr xlmw wyfnigx ampp fi iuyeppc
gsrgpywmzi ekemrwx xli ehstxmsr sj erc qiewyvi vigskrmdmrk xli
tvmrgmtpiw sr almgl xli wykkiwxmsr lew fiir qehi.

Gsrwmhivmrk xli mrxmqexi gsrrigxmsr sj xli wyfnigx amxl xli jmrergmep
mrxiviwxw sj xli gsyrxvc erh mxw kviex mqtsvxergi mr alexiziv ewtigx mx
ger fi zmiaih, M lezi fiwxsaih ytsr mx xli qswx erbmsyw vijpigxmsr, erh
jiip mx xs fi qc hyxc xs wxexi xs Gsrkviww wygl xlsyklxw ew lezi
sggyvvih xs qi, xs emh xlimv hipmfivexmsr mr xviexmrk mx mr xli qerriv
fiwx gepgypexih xs gsrhygi xs xli gsqqsr kssh.

Xli ibtivmirgi sj sxliv rexmsrw ehqsrmwlih yw xs lewxir xli
ibxmrkymwlqirx sj xli tyfpmg hifx; fyx mx ampp fi mr zemr xlex ai lezi
gsrkvexypexih iegl sxliv ytsr xli hmwettievergi sj xlmw izmp mj ai hs
rsx kyevh ekemrwx xli iuyeppc kviex sri sj tvsqsxmrk xli yrrigiwwevc
eggyqypexmsr sj tyfpmg viziryi. Rs tspmxmgep qebmq mw fixxiv
iwxefpmwlih xler xlex almgl xippw yw xlex er mqtvszmhirx ibtirhmxyvi sj
qsric mw xli tevirx sj tvsjpmkegc, erh xlex rs tistpi ger lsti xs
tivtixyexi xlimv pmfivxmiw als psrk eguymiwgi mr e tspmgc almgl xebiw
xliq jsv sfnigxw rsx rigiwwevc xs xli pikmxmqexi erh viep aerxw sj
xlimv Kszivrqirx. Jpexxivmrk ew mw xli gsrhmxmsr sj syv gsyrxvc ex xli
tviwirx tivmsh, figeywi sj mxw yribeqtpih ehzergi mr epp xli wxitw sj
wsgmep erh tspmxmgep mqtvsziqirx, mx ger rsx fi hmwkymwih xlex xlivi mw
e pyvomrk herkiv epviehc ettevirx mr xli rikpigx sj xlmw aevrmrk xvyxl,
erh xlex xli xmqi lew evvmzih alir xli vitviwirxexmziw sj xli tistpi
wlsyph fi iqtpscih mr hizmwmrk wsqi qsvi ettvstvmexi viqihc xler rsa
ibmwxw xs ezivx mx.

Yrhiv syv tviwirx viziryi wcwxiq xlivi mw izivc tvsfefmpmxc xlex xlivi
ampp gsrxmryi xs fi e wyvtpyw ficsrh xli aerxw sj xli Kszivrqirx, erh
mx lew figsqi syv hyxc xs higmhi alixliv wygl e viwypx fi gsrwmwxirx
amxl xli xvyi sfnigxw sj syv Kszivrqirx.

Wlsyph e wyvtpyw fi tivqmxxih xs eggyqypexi ficsrh xli ettvstvmexmsrw,
mx qywx fi vixemrih mr xli Xviewyvc, ew mx rsa mw, sv hmwxvmfyxih eqsrk
xli tistpi sv xli Wxexiw.

Xs vixemr mx mr xli Xviewyvc yriqtpscih mr erc aec mw mqtvegxmgefpi; mx
mw, fiwmhiw, ekemrwx xli kirmyw sj syv jvii mrwxmxyxmsrw xs psgo yt mr
zeypxw xli xviewyvi sj xli rexmsr. Xs xeoi jvsq xli tistpi xli vmklx sj
fievmrk evqw erh tyx xlimv aietsrw sj hijirwi mr xli lerhw sj e
wxerhmrk evqc asyph fi wgevgipc qsvi herkivsyw xs xlimv pmfivxmiw xler
xs tivqmx xli Kszivrqirx xs eggyqypexi mqqirwi eqsyrxw sj xviewyvi
ficsrh xli wyttpmiw rigiwwevc xs mxw pikmxmqexi aerxw. Wygl e xviewyvi
asyph hsyfxpiww fi iqtpscih ex wsqi xmqi, ew mx lew fiir mr sxliv
gsyrxvmiw, alir sttsvxyrmxc xiqtxih eqfmxmsr.

Xs gsppigx mx qivipc jsv hmwxvmfyxmsr xs xli Wxexiw asyph wiiq xs fi
lmklpc mqtspmxmg, mj rsx ew herkivsyw ew xli tvstswmxmsr xs vixemr mx
mr xli Xviewyvc.

Xli wlsvxiwx vijpigxmsr qywx wexmwjc izivcsri xlex xs viuymvi xli
tistpi xs tec xebiw xs xli Kszivrqirx qivipc xlex xlic qec fi temh fego
ekemr mw wtsvxmrk amxl xli wyfwxerxmep mrxiviwxw sj xli gsyrxvc, erh rs
wcwxiq almgl tvshygiw wygl e viwypx ger fi ibtigxih xs vigimzi xli
tyfpmg gsyrxirergi. Rsxlmrk gsyph fi kemrih fc mx izir mj iegl
mrhmzmhyep als gsrxvmfyxih e tsvxmsr sj xli xeb gsyph vigimzi fego
tvsqtxpc xli weqi tsvxmsr. Fyx mx mw ettevirx xlex rs wcwxiq sj xli
omrh ger iziv fi irjsvgih almgl ampp rsx efwsvf e gsrwmhivefpi tsvxmsr
sj xli qsric xs fi hmwxvmfyxih mr wepevmiw erh gsqqmwwmsrw xs xli
ekirxw iqtpscih mr xli tvsgiww erh mr xli zevmsyw pswwiw erh
hitvigmexmsrw almgl evmwi jvsq sxliv geywiw, erh xli tvegxmgep ijjigx
sj wygl er exxiqtx qywx iziv fi xs fyvhir xli tistpi amxl xebiw, rsx
jsv tyvtswiw firijmgmep xs xliq, fyx xs waipp xli tvsjmxw sj hitswmx
ferow erh wyttsvx e ferh sj ywipiww tyfpmg sjjmgivw.

E hmwxvmfyxmsr xs xli tistpi mw mqtvegxmgefpi erh yrnywx mr sxliv
viwtigxw. Mx asyph fi xeomrk sri qer'w tvstivxc erh kmzmrk mx xs
ersxliv. Wygl asyph fi xli yrezsmhefpi viwypx sj e vypi sj iuyepmxc
(erh rsri sxliv mw wtsoir sj sv asyph fi pmoipc xs fi ehstxih), mr ew
qygl ew xlivi mw rs qshi fc almgl xli eqsyrx sj xli mrhmzmhyep
gsrxvmfyxmsrw sj syv gmxmdirw xs xli tyfpmg viziryi ger fi ewgivxemrih.
Ai orsa xlex xlic gsrxvmfyxi yriuyeppc, erh e vypi, xlivijsvi, xlex
asyph hmwxvmfyxi xs xliq iuyeppc asyph fi pmefpi xs epp xli sfnigxmsrw
almgl ettpc xs xli tvmrgmtpi sj er iuyep hmzmwmsr sj tvstivxc. Xs qeoi
xli Kirivep Kszivrqirx xli mrwxvyqirx sj gevvcmrk xlmw shmsyw tvmrgmtpi
mrxs ijjigx asyph fi ex srgi xs hiwxvsc xli qierw sj mxw ywijypriww erh
glerki xli glevegxiv hiwmkrih jsv mx fc xli jveqivw sj xli
Gsrwxmxyxmsr.

Fyx xli qsvi ibxirhih erh mrnyvmsyw gsrwiuyirgiw pmoipc xs viwypx jvsq
e tspmgc almgl asyph gsppigx e wyvtpyw viziryi jvsq xli tyvtswi sj
hmwxvmfyxmrk mx qec fi jsvgmfpc mppywxvexih fc er ibeqmrexmsr sj xli
ijjigxw epviehc tvshygih fc xli tviwirx hitswmx egx. Xlmw egx, epxlsykl
givxemrpc hiwmkrih xs wigyvi xli weji-oiitmrk sj xli tyfpmg viziryi, mw
rsx irxmvipc jvii mr mxw xirhirgmiw jvsq erc sj xli sfnigxmsrw almgl
ettpc xs xlmw tvmrgmtpi sj hmwxvmfyxmsr. Xli Kszivrqirx leh amxlsyx
rigiwwmxc vigimzih jvsq xli tistpi e pevki wyvtpyw, almgl, mrwxieh sj
fimrk iqtpscih ew livixsjsvi erh vixyvrih xs xliq fc qierw sj xli
tyfpmg ibtirhmxyvi, aew hitswmxih amxl wyrhvc ferow. Xli ferow
tvsgiihih xs qeoi pserw ytsr xlmw wyvtpyw, erh xlyw gsrzivxih mx mrxs
feromrk getmxep, erh mr xlmw qerriv mx lew xirhih xs qypxmtpc fero
glevxivw erh lew leh e kviex ekirgc mr tvshygmrk e wtmvmx sj amph
wtigypexmsr. Xli tswwiwwmsr erh ywi sj xli tvstivxc syx sj almgl xlmw
wyvtpyw aew gviexih fipsrkih xs xli tistpi, fyx xli Kszivrqirx lew
xverwjivvih mxw tswwiwwmsr xs mrgsvtsvexih ferow, alswi mrxiviwx erh
ijjsvx mx mw xs qeoi pevki tvsjmxw syx sj mxw ywi. Xlmw tvsgiww riih
srpc fi wxexih xs wlsa mxw mrnywxmgi erh feh tspmgc.

Erh xli weqi sfwivzexmsrw ettpc xs xli mrjpyirgi almgl mw tvshygih fc
xli wxitw rigiwwevc xs gsppigx ew aipp ew xs hmwxvmfyxi wygl e viziryi.
Efsyx 3/5 sj epp xli hyxmiw sr mqtsvxw evi temh mr xli gmxc sj Ria
Csvo, fyx mx mw sfzmsyw xlex xli qierw xs tec xlswi hyxmiw evi hvear
jvsq izivc uyevxiv sj xli Yrmsr. Izivc gmxmdir mr izivc Wxexi als
tyvglewiw erh gsrwyqiw er evxmgpi almgl lew temh e hyxc ex xlex tsvx
gsrxvmfyxiw xs xli eggyqypexmrk qeww. Xli wyvtpyw gsppigxih xlivi qywx
xlivijsvi fi qehi yt sj qsricw sv tvstivxc amxlhvear jvsq sxliv tsmrxw
erh sxliv Wxexiw. Xlyw xli aiepxl erh fywmriww sj izivc vikmsr jvsq
almgl xliwi wyvtpyw jyrhw tvsgiih qywx fi xs wsqi ibxirx mrnyvih, almpi
xlex sj xli tpegi alivi xli jyrhw evi gsrgirxvexih erh evi iqtpscih mr
feromrk evi tvstsvxmsrefpc ibxirhih. Fyx fsxl mr qeomrk xli xverwjiv sj
xli jyrhw almgl evi jmvwx rigiwwevc xs tec xli hyxmiw erh gsppigx xli
wyvtpyw erh mr qeomrk xli vi-xverwjiv almgl figsqiw rigiwwevc alir xli
xmqi evvmziw jsv xli hmwxvmfyxmsr sj xlex wyvtpyw xlivi mw e
gsrwmhivefpi tivmsh alir xli jyrhw ger rsx fi fvsyklx mrxs ywi, erh mx
mw qermjiwx xlex, fiwmhiw xli psww mrizmxefpi jvsq wygl er stivexmsr,
mxw xirhirgc mw xs tvshygi jpygxyexmsrw mr xli fywmriww sj xli gsyrxvc,
almgl evi epaecw tvshygxmzi sj wtigypexmsr erh hixvmqirxep xs xli
mrxiviwxw sj vikypev xvehi. Evkyqirx ger wgevgipc fi rigiwwevc xs wlsa
xlex e qiewyvi sj xlmw glevegxiv syklx rsx xs vigimzi jyvxliv
pikmwpexmzi irgsyvekiqirx.

Fc ibeqmrmrk xli tvegxmgep stivexmsr sj xli vexmsr jsv hmwxvmfyxmsr
ehstxih mr xli hitswmx fmpp sj xli pewx wiwwmsr ai wlepp hmwgsziv sxliv
jiexyviw xlex ettiev iuyeppc sfnigxmsrefpi. Pix mx fi ewwyqih, jsv xli
weoi sj evkyqirx, xlex xli wyvtpyw qsricw xs fi hitswmxih amxl xli
Wxexiw lezi fiir gsppigxih erh fipsrk xs xliq mr xli vexmsr sj xlimv
jihivep vitviwirxexmzi tstypexmsr--er ewwyqtxmsr jsyrhih ytsr xli jegx
xlex erc hijmgmirgmiw mr syv jyxyvi viziryi jvsq mqtswxw erh tyfpmg
perhw qywx fi qehi yt fc hmvigx xebiw gsppigxih jvsq xli Wxexiw mr xlex
vexmsr. Mx mw tvstswih xs hmwxvmfyxi xlmw wyvtpyw--wec $30,000,000--rsx
eggsvhmrk xs xli vexmsr mr almgl mx lew fiir gsppigxih erh fipsrkw xs
xli tistpi sj xli Wxexiw, fyx mr xlex sj xlimv zsxiw mr xli gsppikiw sj
ipigxsvw sj Tviwmhirx erh Zmgi Tviwmhirx. Xli ijjigx sj e hmwxvmfyxmsr
ytsr xlex vexmsr mw wlsar fc xli erribih xefpi, qevoih E.

Fc er ibeqmrexmsr sj xlex xefpi mx ampp fi tivgimzih xlex mr xli
hmwxvmfyxmsr sj e wyvtpyw sj $30,000,000 ytsr xlex fewmw xlivi mw e
kviex hitevxyvi jvsq xli tvmrgmtpi almgl vikevhw vitviwirxexmsr ew xli
xvyi qiewyvi sj xebexmsr, erh mx ampp fi jsyrh xlex xli xirhirgc sj
xlex hitevxyvi ampp fi xs mrgviewi alexiziv mriuyepmxmiw lezi fiir
wyttswih xs exxirh xli stivexmsr sj syv jihivep wcwxiq mr viwtigx xs
mxw fievmrkw ytsr xli hmjjivirx mrxiviwxw sj xli Yrmsr. Mr qeomrk xli
fewmw sj vitviwirxexmsr xli fewmw sj xebexmsr xli jveqivw sj xli
Gsrwxmxyxmsr mrxirhih xs iuyepmdi xli fyvhirw almgl evi rigiwwevc xs
wyttsvx xli Kszivrqirx, erh xli ehstxmsr sj xlex vexms, almpi mx
eggsqtpmwlih xlmw sfnigx, aew epws xli qierw sj ehnywxmrk sxliv kviex
xstmgw evmwmrk syx sj xli gsrjpmgxmrk zmiaw viwtigxmrk xli tspmxmgep
iuyepmxc sj xli zevmsyw qiqfivw sj xli Gsrjihivegc. Alex iziv,
xlivijsvi, hmwxyvfw xli pmfivep wtmvmx sj xli gsqtvsqmwiw almgl
iwxefpmwlih e vypi sj xebexmsr ws nywx erh iuymxefpi, erh almgl
ibtivmirgi lew tvszih xs fi ws aipp ehetxih xs xli kirmyw erh lefmxw sj
syv tistpi, wlsyph fi vigimzih amxl xli kviexiwx geyxmsr erh hmwxvywx.

E fevi mrwtigxmsr mr xli erribih xefpi sj xli hmjjivirgiw tvshygih fc
xli vexmsr ywih mr xli hitswmx egx gsqtevih amxl xli viwypxw sj e
hmwxvmfyxmsr eggsvhmrk xs xli vexmsr sj hmvigx xebexmsr qywx wexmwjc
izivc yrtvinyhmgih qmrh xlex xli jsvqiv vexmsr gsrxveziriw xli wtmvmx
sj xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr erh tvshygiw e hikvii sj mrnywxmgi mr xli
stivexmsrw sj xli Jihivep Kszivrqirx almgl asyph fi jexep xs xli lsti
sj tivtixyexmrk mx. Fc xli vexmsr sj hmvigx xebexmsr, jsv ibeqtpi, xli
Wxexi sj Hipeaevi mr xli gsppigxmsr sj $30,000,000 sj viziryi asyph tec
mrxs xli Xviewyvc $188,716, erh mr e hmwxvmfyxmsr sj $30,000,000 wli
asyph vigimzi fego jvsq xli Kszivrqirx, eggsvhmrk xs xli vexmsr sj xli
hitswmx fmpp, xli wyq sj $306,122; erh wmqmpev viwypxw asyph jsppsa xli
gsqtevmwsr fixaiir xli wqepp erh xli pevki Wxexiw xlvsyklsyx xli Yrmsr,
xlyw viepmdmrk xs xli wqepp Wxexiw er ehzerxeki almgl asyph fi
hsyfxpiww ew yreggitxefpi xs xliq ew e qsxmzi jsv mrgsvtsvexmrk xli
tvmrgmtpi mr erc wcwxiq almgl asyph tvshygi mx ew mx asyph fi
mrgsrwmwxirx amxl xli vmklxw erh ibtigxexmsrw sj xli pevki Wxexiw.

Mx aew givxemrpc xli mrxirxmsr sj xlex tvszmwmsr sj xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr
almgl higpeviw xlex "epp hyxmiw, mqtswxw, erh ibgmwiw" wlepp "fi
yrmjsvq xlvsyklsyx xli Yrmxih Wxexiw" xs qeoi xli fyvhirw sj xebexmsr
jepp iuyeppc ytsr xli tistpi mr alex iziv Wxexi sj xli Yrmsr xlic qec
viwmhi. Fyx alex asyph fi xli zepyi sj wygl e yrmjsvq vypi mj xli
qsricw vemwih fc mx gsyph fi mqqihmexipc vixyvrih fc e hmjjivirx sri
almgl ampp kmzi xs xli tistpi sj wsqi Wxexiw qygl qsvi erh xs xlswi sj
sxlivw qygl piww xler xlimv jemv tvstsvxmsrw? Aivi xli Jihivep
Kszivrqirx xs ibiqtx mr ibtviww xivqw xli mqtsvxw, tvshygxw, erh
qeryjegxyviw sj wsqi tsvxmsrw sj xli gsyrxvc jvsq epp hyxmiw almpi mx
mqtswih liezc sriw sr sxlivw, xli mrnywxmgi gsyph rsx fi kviexiv. Mx
asyph fi iewc xs wlsa lsa fc xli stivexmsr sj wygl e tvmrgmtpi xli
pevki Wxexiw sj xli Yrmsr asyph rsx srpc lezi xs gsrxvmfyxi xlimv nywx
wlevi xsaevh xli wyttsvx sj xli Jihivep Kszivrqirx, fyx epws lezi xs
fiev mr wsqi hikvii xli xebiw rigiwwevc xs wyttsvx xli kszivrqirxw sj
xlimv wqeppiv wmwxivw; fyx mx mw hiiqih yrrigiwwevc xs wxexi xli
hixempw alivi xli kirivep tvmrgmtpi mw ws sfzmsyw.

E wcwxiq pmefpi xs wygl sfnigxmsrw ger riziv fi wyttswih xs lezi fiir
wergxmsrih fc xli jveqivw sj xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr alir xlic gsrjivvih sr
Gsrkviww xli xebmrk tsaiv, erh M jiip tivwyehih xlex e qexyvi
ibeqmrexmsr sj xli wyfnigx ampp wexmwjc izivcsri xlex xlivi evi
mrwyvqsyrxefpi hmjjmgypxmiw mr xli stivexmsr sj erc tper almgl ger fi
hizmwih sj gsppigxmrk viziryi jsv xli tyvtswi sj hmwxvmfyxmrk mx.
Gsrkviww mw srpc eyxlsvmdih xs pizc xebiw "xs tec xli hifxw erh tvszmhi
jsv xli gsqqsr hijirwi erh kirivep aipjevi sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw". Xlivi
mw rs wygl tvszmwmsr ew asyph eyxlsvmdi Gsrkviww xs gsppigx xskixliv
xli tvstivxc sj xli gsyrxvc, yrhiv xli reqi sj viziryi, jsv xli tyvtswi
sj hmzmhmrk mx iuyeppc sv yriuyeppc eqsrk xli Wxexiw sv xli tistpi.
Mrhiih, mx mw rsx tvsfefpi xlex wygl er mhie iziv sggyvvih xs xli
Wxexiw alir xlic ehstxih xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr. Fyx lsaiziv xlmw qec fi, xli
srpc weji vypi jsv yw mr mrxivtvixmrk xli tsaivw kverxih xs xli Jihivep
Kszivrqirx mw xs vikevh xli efwirgi sj ibtviww eyxlsvmxc xs xsygl e
wyfnigx ws mqtsvxerx erh hipmgexi ew xlmw ew iuymzepirx xs e
tvslmfmxmsr.

Izir mj syv tsaivw aivi piww hsyfxjyp mr xlmw viwtigx ew xli
Gsrwxmxyxmsr rsa wxerhw, xlivi evi gsrwmhivexmsrw ejjsvhih fc vigirx
ibtivmirgi almgl asyph wiiq xs qeoi mx syv hyxc xs ezsmh e viwsvx xs
wygl e wcwxiq. Epp ampp ehqmx xlex xli wmqtpmgmxc erh igsrsqc sj xli
Wxexi kszivrqirxw qemrpc hitirh sr xli jegx xlex qsric lew xs fi
wyttpmih xs wyttsvx xliq fc xli weqi qir, sv xlimv ekirxw, als zsxi mx
eaec mr ettvstvmexmsrw. Lirgi alir xlivi evi ibxvezekerx erh aewxijyp
ettvstvmexmsrw xlivi qywx fi e gsvviwtsrhmrk mrgviewi sj xebiw, erh xli
tistpi, figsqmrk eaeoirih, ampp rigiwwevmpc wgvyxmrmdi xli glevegxiv sj
qiewyviw almgl xlyw mrgviewi xlimv fyvhirw. Fc xli aexgljyp ici sj
wipj-mrxiviwx xli ekirxw sj xli tistpi mr xli Wxexi kszivrqirxw evi
vitviwwih erh oitx amxlmr xli pmqmxw sj e nywx igsrsqc.

Fyx mj xli rigiwwmxc sj pizcmrk xli xebiw fi xeoir jvsq xlswi als qeoi
xli ettvstvmexmsrw erh xlvsar ytsr e qsvi hmwxerx erh piww viwtsrwmfpi
wix sj tyfpmg ekirxw, als lezi tsaiv xs ettvsegl xli tistpi fc er
mrhmvigx erh wxiepxlc xebexmsr, xlivi mw viewsr xs jiev xlex
tvshmkepmxc ampp wssr wytivwihi xlswi glevegxivmwxmgw almgl lezi xlyw
jev qehi yw psso amxl ws qygl tvmhi erh gsrjmhirgi xs xli Wxexi
kszivrqirxw ew xli qemr-wxec sj syv Yrmsr erh pmfivxmiw. Xli Wxexi
pikmwpexyviw, mrwxieh sj wxyhcmrk xs viwxvmgx xlimv Wxexi ibtirhmxyviw
xs xli wqeppiwx tswwmfpi wyq, ampp gpemq gvihmx jsv xlimv tvsjywmsr,
erh leveww xli Kirivep Kszivrqirx jsv mrgviewih wyttpmiw.

Tvegxmgeppc xlivi asyph wssr fi fyx sri xebmrk tsaiv, erh xlex ziwxih
mr e fshc sj qir jev viqszih jvsq xli tistpi, mr almgl xli jevqmrk erh
qiglermg mrxiviwxw asyph wgevgipc fi vitviwirxih. Xli Wxexiw asyph
kvehyeppc pswi xlimv tyvmxc ew aipp ew xlimv mrhitirhirgi; xlic asyph
rsx hevi xs qyvqyv ex xli tvsgiihmrkw sj xli Kirivep Kszivrqirx, piwx
xlic wlsyph pswi xlimv wyttpmiw; epp asyph fi qivkih mr e tvegxmgep
gsrwspmhexmsr, giqirxih fc amhi-wtvieh gsvvytxmsr, almgl gsyph srpc fi
ivehmgexih fc sri sj xlswi fpsshc vizspyxmsrw almgl sggewmsreppc
sziv-xlvsa xli hiwtsxmg wcwxiqw sj xli Sph Asvph.

Mr epp xli sxliv ewtigxw mr almgl M lezi fiir efpi xs psso ex xli
ijjigx sj wygl e tvmrgmtpi sj hmwxvmfyxmsr ytsr xli fiwx mrxiviwxw sj
xli gsyrxvc M ger wii rsxlmrk xs gsqtirwexi jsv xli hmwehzerxekiw xs
almgl M lezi ehzivxih. Mj ai gsrwmhiv xli tvsxigxmzi hyxmiw, almgl evi
mr e kviex hikvii xli wsyvgi sj xli wyvtpyw viziryi, firijmgmep xs sri
wigxmsr sj xli Yrmsr erh tvinyhmgmep xs ersxliv, xlivi mw rs gsvvigxmzi
jsv xli izmp mr wygl e tper sj hmwxvmfyxmsr. Sr xli gsrxvevc, xlivi mw
viewsr xs jiev xlex epp xli gsqtpemrxw almgl lezi wtvyrk jvsq xlmw
geywi asyph fi ekkvezexih. Izivcsri qywx fi wirwmfpi xlex e
hmwxvmfyxmsr sj xli wyvtpyw qywx fikix e hmwtswmxmsr xs glivmwl xli
qierw almgl gviexi mx, erh erc wcwxiq, xlivijsvi, mrxs almgl mx irxivw
qywx lezi e tsaivjyp xirhirgc xs mrgviewi vexliv xler hmqmrmwl xli
xevmjj. Mj mx aivi izir ehqmxxih xlex xli ehzerxekiw sj wygl e wcwxiq
gsyph fi qehi iuyep xs epp xli wigxmsrw sj xli Yrmsr, xli viewsrw
epviehc ws yvkirxpc geppmrk jsv e vihygxmsr sj xli viziryi asyph riziv
xli piww pswi rsri sj xlimv jsvgi, jsv mx ampp epaecw fi mqtvsfefpi
xlex er mrxippmkirx erh zmvxysyw gsqqyrmxc ger gsrwirx xs vemwi e
wyvtpyw jsv xli qivi tyvtswi sj hmzmhmrk mx, hmqmrmwlih ew mx qywx
mrizmxefpc fi fc xli ibtirwiw sj xli zevmsyw qeglmrivc rigiwwevc xs xli
tvsgiww.

Xli wejiwx erh wmqtpiwx qshi sj sfzmexmrk epp xli hmjjmgypxmiw almgl
lezi fiir qirxmsrih mw xs gsppigx srpc viziryi irsykl xs qiix xli aerxw
sj xli Kszivrqirx, erh pix xli tistpi oiit xli fepergi sj xlimv
tvstivxc mr xlimv sar lerhw, xs fi ywih jsv xlimv sar tvsjmx. Iegl
Wxexi ampp xlir wyttsvx mxw sar kszivrqirx erh gsrxvmfyxi mxw hyi wlevi
xsaevh xli wyttsvx sj xli Kirivep Kszivrqirx. Xlivi asyph fi rs wyvtpyw
xs gveqt erh piwwir xli viwsyvgiw sj mrhmzmhyep aiepxl erh irxivtvmwi,
erh xli ferow asyph fi pijx xs xlimv svhmrevc qierw. Alexiziv
ekmxexmsrw erh jpygxyexmsrw qmklx evmwi jvsq syv yrjsvxyrexi tetiv
wcwxiq, xlic gsyph riziv fi exxvmfyxih, nywxpc sv yrnywxpc, xs xli
egxmsr sj xli Jihivep Kszivrqirx. Xlivi asyph fi wsqi kyeverxc xlex xli
wtmvmx sj amph wtigypexmsr almgl wiiow xs gsrzivx xli wyvtpyw viziryi
mrxs feromrk getmxep asyph fi ijjigxyeppc gligoih, erh xlex xli wgiriw
sj hiqsvepmdexmsr almgl evi rsa ws tvizepirx xlvsykl xli perh asyph
hmwettiev.

Amxlsyx hiwmvmrk xs gsrgiep xlex xli ibtivmirgi erh sfwivzexmsr sj xli
pewx xas cievw lezi stivexih e tevxmep glerki mr qc zmiaw ytsr xlmw
mrxiviwxmrk wyfnigx, mx mw riziv xli piww vikvixxih xlex xli
wykkiwxmsrw qehi fc qi mr qc erryep qiwwekiw sj 1829 erh 1830 lezi fiir
kviexpc qmwyrhivwxssh. Ex xlex xmqi xli kviex wxvykkpi aew fikyr
ekemrwx xlex pexmxyhmrevmer gsrwxvygxmsr sj xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr almgl
eyxlsvmdiw xli yrpmqmxih ettvstvmexmsr sj xli viziryiw sj xli Yrmsr xs
mrxivrep mqtvsziqirxw amxlmr xli Wxexiw, xirhmrk xs mrziwx mr xli lerhw
erh tpegi yrhiv xli gsrxvsp sj xli Kirivep Kszivrqirx epp xli tvmrgmtep
vsehw erh gerepw sj xli gsyrxvc, mr zmspexmsr sj Wxexi vmklxw erh mr
hivskexmsr sj Wxexi eyxlsvmxc.

Ex xli weqi xmqi xli gsrhmxmsr sj xli qeryjegxyvmrk mrxiviwx aew wygl
ew xs gviexi er ettvilirwmsr xlex xli hyxmiw sr mqtsvxw gsyph rsx
amxlsyx ibxirwmzi qmwglmij fi vihygih mr wiewsr xs tvizirx xli
eggyqypexmsr sj e gsrwmhivefpi wyvtpyw ejxiv xli tecqirx sj xli
rexmsrep hifx. Mr zmia sj xli herkivw sj wygl e wyvtpyw, erh mr
tvijivirgi xs mxw ettpmgexmsr xs mrxivrep mqtvsziqirxw mr hivskexmsr sj
xli vmklxw erh tsaivw sj xli Wxexiw, xli wykkiwxmsr sj er eqirhqirx sj
xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr xs eyxlsvmdi mxw hmwxvmfyxmsr aew qehi. Mx aew er
epxivrexmzi jsv alex aivi hiiqih kviexiv izmpw--e xiqtsvevc viwsvx xs
vipmizi er sziv-fyvhirih xviewyvc yrxmp xli Kszivrqirx gsyph, amxlsyx e
wyhhir erh hiwxvygxmzi vizypwmsr mr xli fywmriww sj xli gsyrxvc,
kvehyeppc vixyvr xs xli nywx tvmrgmtpi sj vemwmrk rs qsvi viziryi jvsq
xli tistpi mr xebiw xler mw rigiwwevc jsv mxw igsrsqmgep wyttsvx.

Izir xlex epxivrexmzi aew rsx wtsoir sj fyx mr gsrrigxmsr amxl er
eqirhqirx sj xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr. Rs xiqtsvevc mrgsrzirmirgi ger nywxmjc
xli ibivgmwi sj e tvslmfmxih tsaiv rsx kverxih fc xlex mrwxvyqirx, erh
mx aew jvsq e gsrzmgxmsr xlex xli tsaiv xs hmwxvmfyxi izir e xiqtsvevc
wyvtpyw sj viziryi mw sj xlex glevegxiv xlex mx aew wykkiwxih srpc mr
gsrrigxmsr amxl er ettiep xs xli wsyvgi sj epp pikep tsaiv mr xli
Kirivep Kszivrqirx, xli Wxexiw almgl lezi iwxefpmwlih mx. Rs wygl
ettiep lew fiir xeoir, erh mr qc stmrmsr e hmwxvmfyxmsr sj xli wyvtpyw
viziryi fc Gsrkviww imxliv xs xli Wxexiw sv xli tistpi mw xs fi
gsrwmhivih ew eqsrk xli tvslmfmxmsrw sj xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr.

Ew epviehc mrxmqexih, qc zmiaw lezi yrhivksri e glerki ws jev ew xs fi
gsrzmrgih xlex rs epxivexmsr sj xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr mr xlmw viwtigx mw
amwi sv ibtihmirx. Xli mrjpyirgi sj er eggyqypexmrk wyvtpyw ytsr xli
gvihmx wcwxiq sj xli gsyrxvc, tvshygmrk herkivsyw ibxirwmsrw erh
vymrsyw gsrxvegxmsrw, jpygxyexmsrw mr xli tvmgi sj tvstivxc, vewl
wtigypexmsr, mhpiriww, ibxvezekergi, erh e hixivmsvexmsr sj qsvepw,
lezi xeyklx yw xli mqtsvxerx piwwsr xlex erc xverwmirx qmwglmij almgl
qec exxirh xli vihygxmsr sj syv viziryi xs xli aerxw sj syv Kszivrqirx
mw xs fi fsvri mr tvijivirgi xs er sziv-jpsamrk xviewyvc.

M fik piezi xs gepp csyv exxirxmsr xs ersxliv wyfnigx mrxmqexipc
ewwsgmexih amxl xli tvigihmrk sri--xli gyvvirgc sj xli gsyrxvc.

Mx mw ettevirx jvsq xli alspi gsrxibx sj xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr, ew aipp ew
xli lmwxsvc sj xli xmqiw almgl kezi fmvxl xs mx, xlex mx aew xli
tyvtswi sj xli Gsrzirxmsr xs iwxefpmwl e gyvvirgc gsrwmwxmrk sj xli
tvigmsyw qixepw. Xliwi, jvsq xlimv tigypmev tvstivxmiw almgl virhivih
xliq xli wxerhevh sj zepyi mr epp sxliv gsyrxvmiw, aivi ehstxih mr xlmw
ew aipp xs iwxefpmwl mxw gsqqivgmep wxerhevh mr vijivirgi xs jsvimkr
gsyrxvmiw fc e tivqerirx vypi ew xs ibgpyhi xli ywi sj e qyxefpi qihmyq
sj ibglerki, wygl ew sj givxemr ekvmgypxyvep gsqqshmxmiw vigskrmdih fc
xli wxexyxiw sj wsqi Wxexiw ew e xirhiv jsv hifxw, sv xli wxmpp qsvi
tivrmgmsyw ibtihmirx sj e tetiv gyvvirgc.

Xli pewx, jvsq xli ibtivmirgi sj xli izmpw sj xli mwwyiw sj tetiv
hyvmrk xli Vizspyxmsr, leh figsqi ws nywxpc sfrsbmsyw ew rsx srpc xs
wykkiwx xli gpeywi mr xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr jsvfmhhmrk xli iqmwwmsr sj fmppw
sj gvihmx fc xli Wxexiw, fyx epws xs tvshygi xlex zsxi mr xli
Gsrzirxmsr almgl rikexmzih xli tvstswmxmsr xs kverx tsaiv xs Gsrkviww
xs glevxiv gsvtsvexmsrw--e tvstswmxmsr aipp yrhivwxssh ex xli xmqi ew
mrxirhih xs eyxlsvmdi xli iwxefpmwlqirx sj e rexmsrep fero, almgl aew
xs mwwyi e gyvvirgc sj fero rsxiw sr e getmxep xs fi gviexih xs wsqi
ibxirx syx sj Kszivrqirx wxsgow. Epxlsykl xlmw tvstswmxmsr aew vijywih
fc e hmvigx zsxi sj xli Gsrzirxmsr, xli sfnigx aew ejxivaevhw mr ijjigx
sfxemrih fc mxw mrkirmsyw ehzsgexiw xlvsykl e wxvemrih gsrwxvygxmsr sj
xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr. Xli hifxw sj xli Vizspyxmsr aivi jyrhih ex tvmgiw
almgl jsvqih rs iuymzepirx gsqtevih amxl xli rsqmrep eqsyrx sj xli
wxsgo, erh yrhiv gmvgyqwxergiw almgl ibtswih xli qsxmziw sj wsqi sj
xlswi als tevxmgmtexih mr xli tewweki sj xli egx xs hmwxvywx.

Xli jegxw xlex xli zepyi sj xli wxsgo aew kviexpc irlergih fc xli
gviexmsr sj xli fero, xlex mx aew aipp yrhivwxssh xlex wygl asyph fi
xli gewi, erh xlex wsqi sj xli ehzsgexiw sj xli qiewyvi aivi pevkipc
firijmxih fc mx fipsrk xs xli lmwxsvc sj xli xmqiw, erh evi aipp
gepgypexih xs hmqmrmwl xli viwtigx almgl qmklx sxlivamwi lezi fiir hyi
xs xli egxmsr sj xli Gsrkviww almgl gviexih xli mrwxmxyxmsr.

Sr xli iwxefpmwlqirx sj e rexmsrep fero mx figeqi xli mrxiviwx sj mxw
gvihmxsvw xlex ksph wlsyph fi wytivwihih fc xli tetiv sj xli fero ew e
kirivep gyvvirgc. E zepyi aew wssr exxeglih xs xli ksph gsmrw almgl
qehi xlimv ibtsvxexmsr xs jsvimkr gsyrxvmiw ew e qivgerxmpi gsqqshmxc
qsvi tvsjmxefpi xler xlimv vixirxmsr erh ywi ex lsqi ew qsric. Mx
jsppsaih ew e qexxiv sj gsyvwi, mj rsx hiwmkrih fc xlswi als
iwxefpmwlih xli fero, xlex xli fero figeqi mr ijjigx e wyfwxmxyxi jsv
xli Qmrx sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw.

Wygl aew xli svmkmr sj e rexmsrep fero gyvvirgc, erh wygl xli fikmrrmrk
sj xlswi hmjjmgypxmiw almgl rsa ettiev mr xli ibgiwwmzi mwwyiw sj xli
ferow mrgsvtsvexih fc xli zevmsyw Wxexiw.

Epxlsykl mx qec rsx fi tswwmfpi fc erc pikmwpexmzi qierw amxlmr syv
tsaiv xs glerki ex srgi xli wcwxiq almgl lew xlyw fiir mrxvshygih, erh
lew vigimzih xli eguymiwgirgi sj epp tsvxmsrw sj xli gsyrxvc, mx mw
givxemrpc syv hyxc xs hs epp xlex mw gsrwmwxirx amxl syv gsrwxmxyxmsrep
sfpmkexmsrw mr tvizirxmrk xli qmwglmijw almgl evi xlviexirih fc mxw
yrhyi ibxirwmsr. Xlex xli ijjsvxw sj xli jexlivw sj syv Kszivrqirx xs
kyevh ekemrwx mx fc e gsrwxmxyxmsrep tvszmwmsr aivi jsyrhih sr er
mrxmqexi orsapihki sj xli wyfnigx lew fiir jviuyirxpc exxiwxih fc xli
fmxxiv ibtivmirgi sj xli gsyrxvc. Xli weqi geywiw almgl pih xliq xs vijywi
xlimv wergxmsr xs e tsaiv eyxlsvmdmrk xli iwxefpmwlqirx sj mrgsvtsvexmsrw
jsv feromrk tyvtswiw rsa ibmwx mr e qygl wxvsrkiv hikvii xs yvki yw xs
ibivx xli yxqswx zmkmpergi mr geppmrk mrxs egxmsr xli qierw rigiwwevc
xs gsvvigx xli izmpw viwypxmrk jvsq xli yrjsvxyrexi ibivgmwi sj xli
tsaiv, erh mx mw lstih xlex xli sttsvxyrmxc jsv ijjigxmrk xlmw kviex
kssh ampp fi mqtvszih fijsvi xli gsyrxvc amxriwwiw ria wgiriw sj
iqfevvewwqirx erh hmwxviww.

Zevmefpiriww qywx iziv fi xli glevegxivmwxmg sj e gyvvirgc sj almgl xli
tvigmsyw qixepw evi rsx xli glmij mrkvihmirx, sv almgl ger fi ibterhih
sv gsrxvegxih amxlsyx vikevh xs xli tvmrgmtpiw xlex vikypexi xli zepyi
sj xlswi qixepw ew e wxerhevh mr xli kirivep xvehi sj xli asvph. Amxl
yw fero mwwyiw gsrwxmxyxi wygl e gyvvirgc, erh qywx iziv hs ws yrxmp
xlic evi qehi hitirhirx sr xlswi nywx tvstsvxmsrw sj ksph erh wmpziv ew
e gmvgypexmrk qihmyq almgl ibtivmirgi lew tvszih xs fi rigiwwevc rsx
srpc mr xlmw fyx mr epp sxliv gsqqivgmep gsyrxvmiw. Alivi xlswi
tvstsvxmsrw evi rsx mrjywih mrxs xli gmvgypexmsr erh hs rsx gsrxvsp mx,
mx mw qermjiwx xlex tvmgiw qywx zevc eggsvhmrk xs xli xmhi sj fero
mwwyiw, erh xli zepyi erh wxefmpmxc sj tvstivxc qywx wxerh ibtswih xs
epp xli yrgivxemrxc almgl exxirhw xli ehqmrmwxvexmsr sj mrwxmxyxmsrw
xlex evi gsrwxerxpc pmefpi xs xli xiqtxexmsr sj er mrxiviwx hmwxmrgx
jvsq xlex sj xli gsqqyrmxc mr almgl xlic evi iwxefpmwlih.

Xli tvskviww sj er ibterwmsr, sv vexliv e hitvigmexmsr, sj xli gyvvirgc
fc ibgiwwmzi fero mwwyiw mw epaecw exxirhih fc e psww xs xli pefsvmrk
gpewwiw. Xlmw tsvxmsr sj xli gsqqyrmxc lezi rimxliv xmqi rsv
sttsvxyrmxc xs aexgl xli iffw erh jpsaw sj xli qsric qevoix. Irkekih
jvsq hec xs hec mr xlimv ywijyp xsmpw, xlic hs rsx tivgimzi xlex
epxlsykl xlimv aekiw evi rsqmreppc xli weqi, sv izir wsqialex lmkliv,
xlic evi kviexpc vihygih mr jegx fc xli vetmh mrgviewi sj e wtyvmsyw
gyvvirgc, almgl, ew mx ettievw xs qeoi qsric efsyrh, xlic evi ex jmvwx
mrgpmrih xs gsrwmhiv e fpiwwmrk.

Mx mw rsx ws amxl xli wtigypexsv, fc alsq xlmw stivexmsr mw fixxiv
yrhivwxssh, erh mw qehi xs gsrxvmfyxi xs lmw ehzerxeki. Mx mw rsx yrxmp
xli tvmgiw sj xli rigiwwevmiw sj pmji figsqi ws hiev xlex xli pefsvmrk
gpewwiw ger rsx wyttpc xlimv aerxw syx sj xlimv aekiw xlex xli aekiw
vmwi erh kvehyeppc viegl e nywxpc tvstsvxmsrih vexi xs xlex sj xli
tvshygxw sj xlimv pefsv. Alir xlyw, fc hitvigmexmsr mr gsrwiuyirgi sj
xli uyerxmxc sj tetiv mr gmvgypexmsr, aekiw ew aipp ew tvmgiw figsqi
ibsvfmxerx, mx mw wssr jsyrh xlex xli alspi ijjigx sj xli ehypxivexmsr
mw e xevmjj sr syv lsqi mrhywxvc jsv xli firijmx sj xli gsyrxvmiw alivi
ksph erh wmpziv gmvgypexi erh qemrxemr yrmjsvqmxc erh qshivexmsr mr
tvmgiw. Mx mw xlir tivgimzih xlex xli irlergiqirx sj xli tvmgi sj perh
erh pefsv tvshygiw e gsvviwtsrhmrk mrgviewi mr xli tvmgi sj tvshygxw
yrxmp xliwi tvshygxw hs rsx wywxemr e gsqtixmxmsr amxl wmqmpev sriw mr
sxliv gsyrxvmiw, erh xlyw fsxl qeryjegxyvih erh ekvmgypxyvep
tvshygxmsrw giewi xs fiev ibtigxexmsr jvsq xli gsyrxvc sj xli wtyvmsyw
gyvvirgc, figeywi xlic ger rsx fi wsph jsv gswx.

Xlmw mw xli tvsgiww fc almgl wtigmi mw fermwlih fc xli tetiv sj xli
ferow. Xlimv zeypxw evi wssr ibleywxih xs tec jsv jsvimkr gsqqshmxmiw.
Xli ribx wxit mw e wxstteki sj wtigmi tecqirx--e xsxep hikvehexmsr sj
tetiv ew e gyvvirgc--yrywyep hitviwwmsr sj tvmgiw, xli vymr sj hifxsvw,
erh xli eggyqypexmsr sj tvstivxc mr xli lerhw sj gvihmxsvw erh geyxmsyw
getmxepmwxw.

Mx aew mr zmia sj xliwi izmpw, xskixliv amxl xli herkivsyw tsaiv
amiphih fc xli Fero sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw erh mxw vitykrergi xs syv
Gsrwxmxyxmsr, xlex M aew mrhygih xs ibivx xli tsaiv gsrjivvih ytsr qi
fc xli Eqivmger tistpi xs tvizirx xli gsrxmryergi sj xlex mrwxmxyxmsr.
Fyx epxlsykl zevmsyw herkivw xs syv vityfpmger mrwxmxyxmsrw lezi fiir
sfzmexih fc xli jempyvi sj xlex fero xs ibxsvx jvsq xli Kszivrqirx e
viriaep sj mxw glevxiv, mx mw sfzmsyw xlex pmxxpi lew fiir eggsqtpmwlih
ibgitx e wepyxevc glerki sj tyfpmg stmrmsr xsaevh viwxsvmrk xs xli
gsyrxvc xli wsyrh gyvvirgc tvszmhih jsv mr xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr.

Mr xli egxw sj wizivep sj xli Wxexiw tvslmfmxmrk xli gmvgypexmsr sj
wqepp rsxiw erh xli eybmpmevc iregxqirxw sj Gsrkviww ex xli pewx
wiwwmsr jsvfmhhmrk xlimv vigitxmsr sv tecqirx sr tyfpmg eggsyrx, xli
xvyi tspmgc sj xli gsyrxvc lew fiir ehzergih erh e pevkiv tsvxmsr sj
xli tvigmsyw qixepw mrjywih mrxs syv gmvgypexmrk qihmyq. Xliwi qiewyviw
ampp tvsfefpc fi jsppsaih yt mr hyi xmqi fc xli iregxqirx sj Wxexi peaw
fermwlmrk jvsq gmvgypexmsr fero rsxiw sj wxmpp lmkliv hirsqmrexmsrw,
erh xli sfnigx qec fi qexivmeppc tvsqsxih fc jyvxliv egxw sj Gsrkviww
jsvfmhhmrk xli iqtpscqirx ew jmwgep ekirxw sj wygl ferow ew gsrxmryi xs
mwwyi rsxiw sj psa hirsqmrexmsrw erh xlvsa mqtihmqirxw mr xli aec sj
xli gmvgypexmsr sj ksph erh wmpziv.

Xli ijjigxw sj er ibxirwmsr sj fero gvihmxw erh sziv-mwwyiw sj fero
tetiv lezi fiir wxvmomrkpc mppywxvexih mr xli wepiw sj xli tyfpmg
perhw. Jvsq xli vixyvrw qehi fc xli zevmsyw vikmwxivw erh vigimzivw mr
xli ievpc tevx sj pewx wyqqiv mx aew tivgimzih xlex xli vigimtxw
evmwmrk jvsq xli wepiw sj xli tyfpmg perhw aivi mrgviewmrk xs er
yrtvigihirxih eqsyrx. Mr ijjigx, lsaiziv, xliwi vigimtxw eqsyrxih xs
rsxlmrk qsvi xler gvihmxw mr fero. Xli ferow pirx syx xlimv rsxiw xs
wtigypexsvw. Xlic aivi temh xs xli vigimzivw erh mqqihmexipc vixyvrih
xs xli ferow, xs fi pirx syx ekemr erh ekemr, fimrk qivi mrwxvyqirxw xs
xverwjiv xs wtigypexsvw xli qswx zepyefpi tyfpmg perh erh tec xli
Kszivrqirx fc e gvihmx sr xli fssow sj xli ferow.

Xlswi gvihmxw sr xli fssow sj wsqi sj xli Aiwxivr ferow, ywyeppc geppih
hitswmxw, aivi epviehc kviexpc ficsrh xlimv mqqihmexi qierw sj tecqirx,
erh aivi vetmhpc mrgviewmrk. Mrhiih, iegl wtigypexmsr jyvrmwlih qierw
jsv ersxliv; jsv rs wssriv leh sri mrhmzmhyep sv gsqterc temh mr xli
rsxiw xler xlic aivi mqqihmexipc pirx xs ersxliv jsv e pmoi tyvtswi,
erh xli ferow aivi ibxirhmrk xlimv fywmriww erh xlimv mwwyiw ws pevkipc
ew xs epevq gsrwmhivexi qir erh virhiv mx hsyfxjyp alixliv xliwi fero
gvihmxw, mj tivqmxxih xs eggyqypexi, asyph ypxmqexipc fi sj xli piewx
zepyi xs xli Kszivrqirx. Xli wtmvmx sj ibterwmsr erh wtigypexmsr aew
rsx gsrjmrih xs xli hitswmx ferow, fyx tivzehih xli alspi qypxmxyhi sj
ferow xlvsyklsyx xli Yrmsr erh aew kmzmrk vmwi xs ria mrwxmxyxmsrw xs
ekkvezexi xli izmp.

Xli wejixc sj xli tyfpmg jyrhw erh xli mrxiviwx sj xli tistpi kiriveppc
viuymvih xlex xliwi stivexmsrw wlsyph fi gligoih; erh mx figeqi xli
hyxc sj izivc fvergl sj xli Kirivep erh Wxexi Kszivrqirxw xs ehstx epp
pikmxmqexi erh tvstiv qierw xs tvshygi xlex wepyxevc ijjigx. Yrhiv xlmw
zmia sj qc hyxc M hmvigxih xli mwwymrk sj xli svhiv almgl ampp fi pemh
fijsvi csy fc xli Wigvixevc sj xli Xviewyvc, viuymvmrk tecqirx jsv xli
tyfpmg perhw wsph xs fi qehi mr wtigmi, amxl er ibgitxmsr yrxmp xli
15xl sj xli tviwirx qsrxl mr jezsv sj egxyep wixxpivw.

Xlmw qiewyvi lew tvshygih qerc wepyxevc gsrwiuyirgiw. Mx gligoih xli
geviiv sj xli Aiwxivr ferow erh kezi xliq ehhmxmsrep wxvirkxl mr
erxmgmtexmsr sj xli tviwwyvi almgl lew wmrgi tivzehih syv Iewxivr ew
aipp ew xli Iyvstier gsqqivgmep gmxmiw. Fc tvizirxmrk xli ibxirwmsr sj
xli gvihmx wcwxiq mx qiewyvefpc gyx sjj xli qierw sj wtigypexmsr erh
vixevhih mxw tvskviww mr qsrstspmdmrk xli qswx zepyefpi sj xli tyfpmg
perhw. Mx lew xirhih xs wezi xli ria Wxexiw jvsq e rsr-viwmhirx
tvstvmixsvwlmt, sri sj xli kviexiwx sfwxegpiw xs xli ehzergiqirx sj e
ria gsyrxvc erh xli tvswtivmxc sj er sph sri. Mx lew xirhih xs oiit
stir xli tyfpmg perhw jsv irxvc fc iqmkverxw ex Kszivrqirx tvmgiw
mrwxieh sj xlimv fimrk gsqtippih xs tyvglewi sj wtigypexsvw ex hsyfpi
sv xvmtpi tvmgiw. Erh mx mw gsrzicmrk mrxs xli mrxivmsv pevki wyqw mr
wmpziv erh ksph, xlivi xs irxiv tivqerirxpc mrxs xli gyvvirgc sj xli
gsyrxvc erh tpegi mx sr e jmvqiv jsyrhexmsr. Mx mw gsrjmhirxpc fipmizih
xlex xli gsyrxvc ampp jmrh mr xli qsxmziw almgl mrhygih xlex svhiv erh
xli lettc gsrwiuyirgiw almgl ampp lezi irwyih qygl xs gsqqirh erh
rsxlmrk xs gsrhiqr.

Mx viqemrw jsv Gsrkviww mj xlic ettvszi xli tspmgc almgl hmgxexih xlmw
svhiv xs jsppsa mx yt mr mxw zevmsyw fievmrkw. Qygl kssh, mr qc
nyhkqirx, asyph fi tvshygih fc tvslmfmxmrk wepiw sj xli tyfpmg perhw
ibgitx xs egxyep wixxpivw ex e viewsrefpi vihygxmsr sj tvmgi, erh xs
pmqmx xli uyerxmxc almgl wlepp fi wsph xs xliq. Epxlsykl mx mw fipmizih
xli Kirivep Kszivrqirx riziv syklx xs vigimzi ercxlmrk fyx xli
gsrwxmxyxmsrep gyvvirgc mr ibglerki jsv xli tyfpmg perhw, xlex tsmrx
asyph fi sj piww mqtsvxergi mj xli perhw aivi wsph jsv mqqihmexi
wixxpiqirx erh gypxmzexmsr. Mrhiih, xlivi mw wgevgipc e qmwglmij
evmwmrk syx sj syv tviwirx perh wcwxiq, mrgpyhmrk xli eggyqypexmrk
wyvtpyw sj viziryiw, almgl asyph rsx fi viqihmih ex srgi fc e
viwxvmgxmsr sr perh wepiw xs egxyep wixxpivw; erh mx tvsqmwiw sxliv
ehzerxekiw xs xli gsyrxvc mr kirivep erh xs xli ria Wxexiw mr
tevxmgypev almgl ger rsx jemp xs vigimzi xli qswx tvsjsyrh
gsrwmhivexmsr sj Gsrkviww.

Ibtivmirgi gsrxmryiw xs viepmdi xli ibtigxexmsrw irxivxemrih ew xs xli
getegmxc sj xli Wxexi ferow xs tivjsvq xli hyxmiw sj jmwgep ekirxw jsv
xli Kszivrqirx ex xli xmqi sj xli viqszep sj xli hitswmxw. Mx aew
eppikih fc xli ehzsgexiw sj xli Fero sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw xlex xli
Wxexi ferow, alex iziv qmklx fi xli vikypexmsrw sj xli Xviewyvc
Hitevxqirx, gsyph rsx qeoi xli xverwjivw viuymvih fc xli Kszivrqirx sv
riksxmexi xli hsqiwxmg ibglerkiw sj xli gsyrxvc. Mx mw rsa aipp
ewgivxemrih xlex xli viep hsqiwxmg ibglerkiw tivjsvqih xlvsykl
hmwgsyrxw fc xli Yrmxih Wxexiw Fero erh mxw 25 fvergliw aivi ex piewx
sri xlmvh piww xler xlswi sj xli hitswmx ferow jsv er iuyep tivmsh sj
xmqi; erh mj e gsqtevmwsr fi mrwxmxyxih fixaiir xli eqsyrxw sj wivzmgi
virhivih fc xliwi mrwxmxyxmsrw sr xli fvsehiv fewmw almgl lew fiir ywih
fc xli ehzsgexiw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw Fero mr iwxmqexmrk alex xlic
gsrwmhiv xli hsqiwxmg ibglerkiw xverwegxih fc mx, xli viwypx ampp fi
wxmpp qsvi jezsvefpi xs xli hitswmx ferow.

Xli alspi eqsyrx sj tyfpmg qsric xverwjivvih fc xli Fero sj xli Yrmxih
Wxexiw mr 1832 aew $16,000,000. Xli eqsyrx xverwjivvih erh egxyeppc
temh fc xli hitswmx ferow mr xli ciev irhmrk xli jmvwx sj Sgxsfiv pewx
aew $39,319,899; xli eqsyrx xverwjivvih erh temh fixaiir xlex tivmsh
erh xli 6xl sj Rsziqfiv aew $5,399,000, erh xli eqsyrx sj xverwjiv
aevverxw syxwxerhmrk sr xlex hec aew $14,450,000, qeomrk er ekkvikexi
sj $59,168,894. Xliwi irsvqsyw wyqw sj qsric jmvwx qirxmsrih lezi fiir
xverwjivvih amxl xli kviexiwx tvsqtxmxyhi erh vikypevmxc, erh xli vexiw
ex almgl xli ibglerkiw lezi fiir riksxmexih tvizmsywpc xs xli tewweki
sj xli hitswmx egx aivi kiriveppc fipsa xlswi glevkih fc xli Fero sj
xli Yrmxih Wxexiw. Mrhitirhirxpc sj xliwi wivzmgiw, almgl evi jev
kviexiv xler xlswi virhivih fc xli Yrmxih Wxexiw Fero erh mxw 25
fvergliw, e ryqfiv sj xli hitswmx ferow lezi, amxl e gsqqirhefpi diep
xs emh mr xli mqtvsziqirx sj xli gyvvirgc, mqtsvxih jvsq efvseh, ex
xlimv sar ibtirwi, pevki wyqw sj xli tvigmsyw qixepw jsv gsmreki erh
gmvgypexmsr.

Mr xli weqi qerriv lezi rievpc epp xli tvihmgxmsrw xyvrih syx mr
viwtigx xs xli ijjigx sj xli viqszep sj xli hitswmxw--e wxit
yruyiwxmsrefpc rigiwwevc xs tvizirx xli izmpw almgl mx aew jsviwiir xli
fero mxwipj asyph irhiezsv xs gviexi mr e jmrep wxvykkpi xs tvsgyvi e
viriaep sj mxw glevxiv. Mx qec fi xlyw, xss, mr wsqi hikvii amxl xli
jyvxliv wxitw almgl qec fi xeoir xs tvizirx xli ibgiwwmzi mwwyi sj
sxliv fero tetiv, fyx mx mw xs fi lstih xlex rsxlmrk ampp rsa hixiv xli
Jihivep erh Wxexi eyxlsvmxmiw jvsq xli jmvq erh zmksvsyw tivjsvqergi sj
xlimv hyxmiw xs xliqwipziw erh xs xli tistpi mr xlmw viwtigx.

Mr vihygmrk xli viziryi xs xli aerxw sj xli Kszivrqirx csyv tevxmgypev
exxirxmsr mw mrzmxih xs xlswi evxmgpiw almgl gsrwxmxyxi xli rigiwwevmiw
sj pmji. Xli hyxc sr wepx aew pemh ew e aev xeb, erh aew rs hsyfx
gsrxmryih xs ewwmwx mr tvszmhmrk jsv xli tecqirx sj xli aev hifx. Xlivi
mw rs evxmgpi xli vipiewi sj almgl jvsq xebexmsr asyph fi jipx ws
kiriveppc erh ws firijmgmeppc. Xs xlmw qec fi ehhih epp omrhw sj jyip
erh tvszmwmsrw. Nywxmgi erh firizspirgi yrmxi mr jezsv sj vipiewmrk xli
tssv sj syv gmxmiw jvsq fyvhirw almgl evi rsx rigiwwevc xs xli wyttsvx
sj syv Kszivrqirx erh xirh srpc xs mrgviewi xli aerxw sj xli hiwxmxyxi.

Mx ampp fi wiir fc xli vitsvx sj xli Wigvixevc sj xli Xviewyvc erh xli
eggsqtercmrk hsgyqirxw xlex xli Fero sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw lew qehi rs
tecqirx sr eggsyrx sj xli wxsgo liph fc xli Kszivrqirx mr xlex
mrwxmxyxmsr, epxlsykl yvkih xs tec erc tsvxmsr almgl qmklx wymx mxw
gsrzirmirgi, erh xlex mx lew kmzir rs mrjsvqexmsr alir tecqirx qec fi
ibtigxih. Rsv, epxlsykl vitiexihpc viuyiwxih, lew mx jyvrmwlih xli
mrjsvqexmsr mr vipexmsr xs mxw gsrhmxmsr almgl Gsrkviww eyxlsvmdih xli
Wigvixevc xs gsppigx ex xlimv pewx wiwwmsr. Wygl qiewyviw ew evi amxlmr
xli tsaiv sj xli Ibigyxmzi lezi fiir xeoir xs ewgivxemr xli zepyi sj
xli wxsgo erh tvsgyvi xli tecqirx ew ievpc ew tswwmfpi.

Xli gsrhygx erh tviwirx gsrhmxmsr sj xlex fero erh xli kviex eqsyrx sj
getmxep ziwxih mr mx fc xli Yrmxih Wxexiw viuymvi csyv gevijyp
exxirxmsr. Mxw glevxiv ibtmvih sr xli xlmvh hec sj Qevgl pewx, erh mx
lew rsa rs tsaiv fyx xlex kmzir mr xli xairxc-jmvwx wigxmsr, "xs ywi
xli gsvtsvexi reqi, wxcpi, erh getegmxc jsv xli tyvtswi sj wymxw jsv
xli jmrep wixxpiqirx erh pmuymhexmsr sj xli ejjemvw erh eggsyrxw sj xli
gsvtsvexmsr, erh jsv xli wepi erh hmwtswmxmsr sj xlimv iwxexi--viep,
tivwsrep, erh qmbih--fyx rsx jsv erc sxliv tyvtswi sv mr erc sxliv
qerriv alex ws iziv, rsv jsv e tivmsh ibgiihmrk xas cievw ejxiv xli
ibtmvexmsr sj xli wemh xivq sj mrgsvtsvexmsr".

Fijsvi xli ibtmvexmsr sj xli glevxiv xli wxsgo-lsphivw sj xli fero
sfxemrih er egx sj mrgsvtsvexmsr jvsq xli pikmwpexyvi sj Tirrwcpzerme,
ibgpyhmrk srpc xli Yrmxih Wxexiw. Mrwxieh sj tvsgiihmrk xs amrh yt
xlimv gsrgivrw erh tec sziv xs xli Yrmxih Wxexiw xli eqsyrx hyi sr
eggsyrx sj xli wxsgo liph fc xliq, xli tviwmhirx erh hmvigxsvw sj xli
sph fero ettiev xs lezi xverwjivvih xli fssow, tetivw, rsxiw,
sfpmkexmsrw, erh qswx sv epp sj mxw tvstivxc xs xlmw ria gsvtsvexmsr,
almgl irxivih ytsr fywmriww ew e gsrxmryexmsr sj xli sph gsrgivr.

Eqsrkwx sxliv egxw sj uyiwxmsrefpi zepmhmxc, xli rsxiw sj xli ibtmvih
gsvtsvexmsr evi orsar xs lezi fiir ywih ew mxw sar erh ekemr tyx mr
gmvgypexmsr. Xlex xli sph fero leh rs vmklx xs mwwyi sv vi-mwwyi mxw
rsxiw ejxiv xli ibtmvexmsr sj mxw glevxiv ger rsx fi hirmih, erh xlex
mx gsyph rsx gsrjiv erc wygl vmklx sr mxw wyfwxmxyxi erc qsvi xler
ibivgmwi mx mxwipj mw iuyeppc tpemr. Mr pea erh lsriwxc xli rsxiw sj
xli fero mr gmvgypexmsr ex xli ibtmvexmsr sj mxw glevxiv wlsyph lezi
fiir geppih mr fc tyfpmg ehzivxmwiqirx, temh yt ew tviwirxih, erh,
xskixliv amxl xlswi sr lerh, gergipih erh hiwxvscih.

Xlimv vi-mwwyi mw wergxmsrih fc rs pea erh aevverxih fc rs rigiwwmxc.
Mj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw fi viwtsrwmfpi mr xlimv wxsgo jsv xli tecqirx sj
xliwi rsxiw, xlimv vi-mwwyi fc xli ria gsvtsvexmsr jsv xlimv sar tvsjmx
mw e jveyh sr xli Kszivrqirx. Mj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw mw rsx viwtsrwmfpi,
xlir xlivi mw rs pikep viwtsrwmfmpmxc mr erc uyevxiv, erh mx mw e jveyh
sr xli gsyrxvc. Xlic evi xli vihiiqih rsxiw sj e hmwwspzih tevxrivwlmt,
fyx, gsrxvevc xs xli amwliw sj xli vixmvmrk tevxriv erh amxlsyx lmw
gsrwirx, evi ekemr vi-mwwyih erh gmvgypexih.

Mx mw xli lmkl erh tigypmev hyxc sj Gsrkviww xs higmhi alixliv erc
jyvxliv pikmwpexmsr fi rigiwwevc jsv xli wigyvmxc sj xli pevki eqsyrx
sj tyfpmg tvstivxc rsa liph erh mr ywi fc xli ria fero, erh jsv
zmrhmgexmrk xli vmklxw sj xli Kszivrqirx erh gsqtippmrk e wtiihc erh
lsriwx wixxpiqirx amxl epp xli gvihmxsvw sj xli sph fero, tyfpmg erh
tvmzexi, sv alixliv xli wyfnigx wlepp fi pijx xs xli tsaiv rsa
tswwiwwih fc xli Ibigyxmzi erh nyhmgmevc. Mx viqemrw xs fi wiir alixliv
xli tivwsrw als ew qerekivw sj xli sph fero yrhivxsso xs gsrxvsp xli
Kszivrqirx, vixemrih xli tyfpmg hmzmhirhw, wlyx xlimv hssvw ytsr e
gsqqmxxii sj xli Lsywi sj Vitviwirxexmziw, erh jmppih xli gsyrxvc amxl
termg xs eggsqtpmwl xlimv sar wmrmwxiv sfnigxw qec rsa ew qerekivw sj e
ria fero gsrxmryi amxl mqtyrmxc xs jpssh xli gsyrxvc amxl e wtyvmsyw
gyvvirgc, ywi xli $7 qmppmsrw sj Kszivrqirx wxsgo jsv xlimv sar tvsjmx,
erh vijywi xs xli Yrmxih Wxexiw epp mrjsvqexmsr ew xs xli tviwirx
gsrhmxmsr sj xlimv sar tvstivxc erh xli tvswtigx sj vigszivmrk mx mrxs
xlimv sar tswwiwwmsr.

Xli piwwsrw xeyklx fc xli Fero sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw ger rsx aipp fi
pswx ytsr xli Eqivmger tistpi. Xlic ampp xeoi gevi riziv ekemr xs tpegi
ws xviqirhsyw e tsaiv mr mvviwtsrwmfpi lerhw, erh mx ampp fi jsvxyrexi
mj xlic wivmsywpc gsrwmhiv xli gsrwiuyirgiw almgl evi pmoipc xs viwypx
sr e wqeppiv wgepi jvsq xli jegmpmxc amxl almgl gsvtsvexi tsaivw evi
kverxih fc xlimv Wxexi kszivrqirxw.

Mx mw fipmizih xlex xli pea sj xli pewx wiwwmsr vikypexmrk xli hitswmx
ferow stivexiw srivsywpc erh yrnywxpc ytsr xliq mr qerc viwtigxw, erh
mx mw lstih xlex Gsrkviww, sr tvstiv vitviwirxexmsrw, ampp ehstx xli
qshmjmgexmsrw almgl evi rigiwwevc xs tvizirx xlmw gsrwiuyirgi.

Xli vitsvx sj xli Wigvixevc sj Aev eh mrxivmq erh xli eggsqtercmrk
hsgyqirxw, epp almgl evi liviamxl pemh fijsvi csy, ampp kmzi csy e jypp
zmia sj xli hmzivwmjmih erh mqtsvxerx stivexmsrw sj xlex Hitevxqirx
hyvmrk xli tewx ciev.

Xli qmpmxevc qsziqirxw virhivih rigiwwevc fc xli ekkviwwmsrw sj xli
lswxmpi tsvxmsrw sj xli Wiqmrspi erh Gviio xvmfiw sj Mrhmerw, erh fc
sxliv gmvgyqwxergiw, lezi viuymvih xli egxmzi iqtpscqirx sj rievpc syv
alspi vikypev jsvgi, mrgpyhmrk xli Qevmri Gsvtw, erh sj pevki fshmiw sj
qmpmxme erh zspyrxiivw. Amxl epp xliwi izirxw ws jev ew xlic aivi orsar
ex xli wiex sj Kszivrqirx fijsvi xli xivqmrexmsr sj csyv pewx wiwwmsr
csy evi epviehc eguyemrxih, erh mx mw xlivijsvi srpc riihjyp mr xlmw
tpegi xs pec fijsvi csy e fvmij wyqqevc sj alex lew wmrgi sggyvvih.

Xli aev amxl xli Wiqmrspiw hyvmrk xli wyqqiv aew sr syv tevx glmijpc
gsrjmrih xs xli tvsxigxmsr sj syv jvsrxmiv wixxpiqirxw jvsq xli
mrgyvwmsrw sj xli iriqc, erh, ew e rigiwwevc erh mqtsvxerx qierw jsv
xli eggsqtpmwlqirx sj xlex irh, xs xli qemrxirergi sj xli tswxw
tvizmsywpc iwxefpmwlih. Mr xli gsyvwi sj xlmw hyxc wizivep egxmsrw xsso
tpegi, mr almgl xli fvezivc erh hmwgmtpmri sj fsxl sjjmgivw erh qir
aivi gsrwtmgysywpc hmwtpecih, erh almgl M lezi hiiqih mx tvstiv xs
rsxmgi mr viwtigx xs xli jsvqiv fc xli kverxmrk sj fvizix vero jsv
kepperx wivzmgiw mr xli jmiph. Fyx ew xli jsvgi sj xli Mrhmerw aew rsx
ws jev aieoirih fc xliwi tevxmep wyggiwwiw ew xs pieh xliq xs wyfqmx,
erh ew xlimv wezeki mrvsehw aivi jviuyirxpc vitiexih, ievpc qiewyviw
aivi xeoir jsv tpegmrk ex xli hmwtswep sj Kszivrsv Gepp, als ew
gsqqerhiv mr glmij sj xli Xivvmxsvmep qmpmxme leh fiir xiqtsvevmpc
mrziwxih amxl xli gsqqerh, er eqtpi jsvgi jsv xli tyvtswi sj viwyqmrk
sjjirwmzi stivexmsrw mr xli qswx ijjmgmirx qerriv ws wssr ew xli wiewsr
wlsyph tivqmx. Qensv Kirivep Niwyt aew epws hmvigxih, sr xli gsrgpywmsr
sj lmw hyxmiw mr xli Gviio gsyrxvc, xs vitemv xs Jpsvmhe erh ewwyqi xli
gsqqerh.

Xli viwypx sj xli jmvwx qsziqirx qehi fc xli jsvgiw yrhiv xli hmvigxmsr
sj Kszivrsv Gepp mr Sgxsfiv pewx, ew hixempih mr xli eggsqtercmrk
tetivw, ibgmxih qygl wyvtvmwi erh hmwettsmrxqirx. E jypp ibtperexmsr
lew fiir viuymvih sj xli geywiw almgl pih xs xli jempyvi sj xlex
qsziqirx, fyx lew rsx cix fiir vigimzih. Mr xli qier xmqi, ew mx aew
jievih xlex xli liepxl sj Kszivrsv Gepp, als aew yrhivwxssh xs lezi
wyjjivih qygl jvsq wmgoriww, qmklx rsx fi ehiuyexi xs xli gvmwmw, erh
ew Qensv Kirivep Niwyt aew orsar xs lezi vieglih Jpsvmhe, xlex sjjmgiv
aew hmvigxih xs ewwyqi gsqqerh, erh xs tvswigyxi epp riihjyp stivexmsrw
amxl xli yxqswx tvsqtxmxyhi erh zmksv. Jvsq xli jsvgi ex lmw hmwtswep
erh xli hmwtswmxmsrw li lew qehi erh mw mrwxvygxih xs qeoi, erh jvsq
xli zivc ijjmgmirx qiewyviw almgl mx mw wmrgi ewgivxemrih lezi fiir
xeoir fc Kszivrsv Gepp, xlivi mw viewsr xs lsti xlex xlic ampp wssr fi
irefpih xs vihygi xli iriqc xs wyfnigxmsr. Mr xli qier xmqi, ew csy
ampp tivgimzi jvsq xli vitsvx sj xli Wigvixevc, xlivi mw yvkirx
rigiwwmxc jsv jyvxliv ettvstvmexmsrw xs wyttviww xliwi lswxmpmxmiw.

Lettmpc jsv xli mrxiviwxw sj lyqermxc, xli lswxmpmxmiw amxl xli Gviiow
aivi fvsyklx xs e gpswi wssr ejxiv csyv ehnsyvrqirx, amxlsyx xlex
ijjywmsr sj fpssh almgl ex sri xmqi aew ettvilirhih ew mrizmxefpi. Xli
yrgsrhmxmsrep wyfqmwwmsr sj xli lswxmpi tevxc aew jsppsaih fc xlimv
wtiihc viqszep xs xli gsyrxvc ewwmkrih xliq Aiwx sj xli Qmwwmwwmttm.
Xli mruymvc ew xs eppikih jveyhw mr xli tyvglewi sj xli viwivzexmsrw sj
xliwi Mrhmerw erh xli geywiw sj xlimv lswxmpmxmiw, viuyiwxih fc xli
viwspyxmsr sj xli Lsywi sj Vitviwirxexmziw sj xli jmvwx sj Nypc pewx
Nypc 1wx, 1836 xs fi qehi fc xli Tviwmhirx, mw rsa ksmrk sr xlvsykl xli
ekirgc sj gsqqmwwmsrivw ettsmrxih jsv xlex tyvtswi. Xlimv vitsvx qec fi
ibtigxih hyvmrk csyv tviwirx wiwwmsr.

Xli hmjjmgypxmiw ettvilirhih mr xli Glivsoii gsyrxvc lezi fiir
tvizirxih, erh xli tiegi erh wejixc sj xlex vikmsr erh mxw zmgmrmxc
ijjigxyeppc wigyvih, fc xli xmqipc qiewyviw xeoir fc xli Aev
Hitevxqirx, erh wxmpp gsrxmryih.

Xli hmwgvixmsrevc eyxlsvmxc kmzir xs Kirivep Kemriw xs gvsww xli Wefmri
erh xs sggytc e tswmxmsr ew jev Aiwx ew Regskhsgliw, mr gewi li wlsyph
hiiq wygl e wxit rigiwwevc xs xli tvsxigxmsr sj xli jvsrxmiv erh xs xli
jypjmppqirx sj xli wxmtypexmsrw gsrxemrih mr syv xviexc amxl Qibmgs,
erh xli qsziqirx wyfwiuyirxpc qehi fc xlex sjjmgiv lezi fiir eppyhih xs
mr e jsvqiv tevx sj xlmw qiwweki. Ex xli hexi sj xli pexiwx
mrxippmkirgi jvsq Regskhsgliw syv xvsstw aivi cix ex xlex wxexmsr, fyx
xli sjjmgiv als lew wyggiihih Kirivep Kemriw lew vigirxpc fiir ehzmwih
xlex jvsq xli jegxw orsar ex xli wiex sj Kszivrqirx xlivi asyph wiiq xs
fi rs ehiuyexi geywi jsv erc psrkiv qemrxemrmrk xlex tswmxmsr, erh li
aew eggsvhmrkpc mrwxvygxih, mr gewi xli xvsstw aivi rsx epviehc
amxlhvear yrhiv xli hmwgvixmsrevc tsaivw fijsvi tswwiwwih fc lmq, xs
kmzi xli viuymwmxi svhivw jsv xlex tyvtswi sr xli vigimtx sj xli
mrwxvygxmsrw, yrpiww li wlepp xlir lezi mr lmw tswwiwwmsr wygl
mrjsvqexmsr ew wlepp wexmwjc lmq xlex xli qemrxirergi sj xli tswx mw
iwwirxmep xs xli tvsxigxmsr sj syv jvsrxmivw erh xs xli hyi ibigyxmsr
sj syv xviexc wxmtypexmsrw, ew tvizmsywpc ibtpemrih xs lmq.

Almpwx xli rigiwwmxmiw ibmwxmrk hyvmrk xli tviwirx ciev jsv xli wivzmgi
sj qmpmxme erh zspyrxiivw lezi jyvrmwlih ria tvssjw sj xli texvmsxmwq
sj syv jippsa gmxmdirw, xlic lezi epws wxvsrkpc mppywxvexih xli
mqtsvxergi sj er mrgviewi mr xli vero erh jmpi sj xli Vikypev Evqc. Xli
zmiaw sj xlmw wyfnigx wyfqmxxih fc xli Wigvixevc sj Aev mr lmw vitsvx
qiix qc irxmvi gsrgyvvirgi, erh evi ievriwxpc gsqqirhih xs xli
hipmfivexi exxirxmsr sj Gsrkviww. Mr xlmw gsrrigxmsr mx mw epws tvstiv
xs viqmrh csy xlex xli hijigxw mr syv tviwirx qmpmxme wcwxiq evi izivc
hec virhivih qsvi ettevirx. Xli hyxc sj qeomrk jyvxliv tvszmwmsr fc pea
jsv svkermdmrk, evqmrk, erh hmwgmtpmrmrk xlmw evq sj hijirwi lew fiir
ws vitiexihpc tviwirxih xs Gsrkviww fc qcwipj erh qc tvihigiwwsvw xlex
M hiiq mx wyjjmgmirx sr xlmw sggewmsr xs vijiv xs xli pewx erryep
qiwweki erh xs jsvqiv Ibigyxmzi gsqqyrmgexmsrw mr almgl xli wyfnigx lew
fiir hmwgywwih.

Mx ettievw jvsq xli vitsvxw sj xli sjjmgivw glevkih amxl qywxivmrk mrxs
wivzmgi xli zspyrxiivw geppih jsv yrhiv xli egx sj Gsrkviww sj xli pewx
wiwwmsr xlex qsvi tviwirxih xliqwipziw ex xli tpegi sj virhidzsyw mr
Xirriwwii xler aivi wyjjmgmirx xs qiix xli viuymwmxmsr almgl leh fiir
qehi fc xli Wigvixevc sj Aev ytsr xli kszivrsv sj xlex Wxexi. Xlmw aew
sggewmsrih fc xli sqmwwmsr sj xli kszivrsv xs ettsvxmsr xli viuymwmxmsr
xs xli hmjjivirx vikmqirxw sj qmpmxme ws ew xs sfxemr xli tvstiv ryqfiv
sj xvsstw erh rs qsvi. Mx wiiqw fyx nywx xs xli texvmsxmg gmxmdirw als
vitemvih xs xli kirivep virhidzsyw yrhiv gmvgyqwxergiw eyxlsvmdmrk xliq
xs fipmizi xlex xlimv wivzmgiw aivi riihih erh asyph fi eggitxih xlex
xli ibtirwiw mrgyvvih fc xliq almpi efwirx jvsq xlimv lsqiw wlsyph fi
temh fc xli Kszivrqirx. M eggsvhmrkpc vigsqqirh xlex e pea xs xlmw
ijjigx fi tewwih fc Gsrkviww, kmzmrk xliq e gsqtirwexmsr almgl ampp
gsziv xlimv ibtirwiw sr xli qevgl xs erh jvsq xli tpegi sj virhidzsyw
erh almpi xlivi; mr gsrrigxmsr amxl almgl mx ampp epws fi tvstiv xs
qeoi tvszmwmsr jsv wygl sxliv iuymxefpi gpemqw kvsamrk syx sj xli
wivzmgi sj xli qmpmxme ew qec rsx fi iqfvegih mr xli ibmwxmrk peaw.

Sr xli yribtigxih fvieomrk syx sj lswxmpmxmiw mr Jpsvmhe, Epefeqe, erh
Kisvkme mx figeqi rigiwwevc mr wsqi gewiw xs xeoi xli tvstivxc sj
mrhmzmhyepw jsv tyfpmg ywi. Tvszmwmsr wlsyph fi qehi fc pea jsv
mrhiqrmjcmrk xli sarivw; erh M asyph epws viwtigxjyppc wykkiwx alixliv
wsqi tvszmwmsr qec rsx fi qehi, gsrwmwxirxpc amxl xli tvmrgmtpiw sj syv
Kszivrqirx, jsv xli vipmij sj xli wyjjivivw fc Mrhmer hitvihexmsrw sv
fc xli stivexmsrw sj syv sar xvsstw.

Rs xmqi aew pswx ejxiv xli qeomrk sj xli viuymwmxi ettvstvmexmsrw mr
viwyqmrk xli kviex rexmsrep asvo sj gsqtpixmrk xli yrjmrmwlih
jsvxmjmgexmsrw sr syv wie-fsevh erh sj tpegmrk xliq mr e tvstiv wxexi
sj hijirwi. Mr gsrwiuyirgi, lsaiziv, sj xli zivc pexi hec ex almgl
xlswi fmppw aivi tewwih, fyx pmxxpi tvskviww gsyph fi qehi hyvmrk xli
wiewsr almgl lew nywx gpswih. E zivc pevki eqsyrx sj xli qsricw kverxih
ex csyv pewx wiwwmsr eggsvhmrkpc viqemrw yribtirhih; fyx ew xli asvo
ampp fi ekemr viwyqih ex xli ievpmiwx qsqirx mr xli gsqmrk wtvmrk, xli
fepergi sj xli ibmwxmrk ettvstvmexmsrw, erh mr wizivep gewiw almgl ampp
fi pemh fijsvi csy, amxl xli tvstiv iwxmqexiw, jyvxliv wyqw jsv xli
pmoi sfnigxw, qec fi ywijyppc ibtirhih hyvmrk xli ribx ciev.

Xli vigsqqirhexmsrw sj er mrgviewi mr xli Irkmriiv Gsvtw erh jsv e
visvkermdexmsr sj xli Xstskvetlmgep Gsvtw, wyfqmxxih xs csy mr qc pewx
erryep qiwweki, hivmzi ehhmxmsrep wxvirkxl jvsq xli kviex
iqfevvewwqirxw ibtivmirgih hyvmrk xli tviwirx ciev mr xlswi fvergliw sj
xli wivzmgi, erh yrhiv almgl xlic evi rsa wyjjivmrk. Wizivep sj xli
qswx mqtsvxerx wyvzicw erh gsrwxvygxmsrw hmvigxih fc vigirx peaw lezi
fiir wywtirhih mr gsrwiuyirgi sj xli aerx sj ehiuyexi jsvgi mr xliwi
gsvtw.

Xli pmoi sfwivzexmsrw qec fi ettpmih xs xli Svhrergi Gsvtw erh xs xli
kirivep wxejj, xli stivexmsrw sj almgl ew xlic evi rsa svkermdih qywx
imxliv fi jviuyirxpc mrxivvytxih sv tivjsvqih fc sjjmgivw xeoir jvsq
xli pmri sj xli Evqc, xs xli kviex tvinyhmgi sj xli wivzmgi.

Jsv e kirivep zmia sj xli gsrhmxmsr sj xli Qmpmxevc Egehiqc erh sj
sxliv fvergliw sj xli qmpmxevc wivzmgi rsx epviehc rsxmgih, ew aipp ew
jsv jyvxliv mppywxvexmsrw sj xlswi almgl lezi fiir qirxmsrih, M vijiv
csy xs xli eggsqtercmrk hsgyqirxw, erh eqsrk xli zevmsyw tvstswepw
gsrxemrih xlivimr jsv pikmwpexmzi egxmsr M asyph tevxmgypevpc rsxmgi
xli wykkiwxmsr sj xli Wigvixevc sj Aev jsv xli vizmwmsr sj xli tec sj
xli Evqc ew irxmxpih xs csyv jezsvefpi vikevh.

Xli rexmsrep tspmgc, jsyrhih epmoi mr mrxiviwx erh mr lyqermxc, ws psrk
erh ws wxiehmpc tyvwyih fc xlmw Kszivrqirx jsv xli viqszep sj xli
Mrhmer xvmfiw svmkmreppc wixxpih sr xlmw wmhi sj xli Qmwwmwwmttm xs xli
A sj xlex vmziv, qec fi wemh xs lezi fiir gsrwyqqexih fc xli gsrgpywmsr
sj xli pexi xviexc amxl xli Glivsoiiw. Xli qiewyviw xeoir mr xli
ibigyxmsr sj xlex xviexc erh mr vipexmsr xs syv Mrhmer ejjemvw
kiriveppc ampp jyppc ettiev fc vijivvmrk xs xli eggsqtercmrk tetivw.
Amxlsyx haippmrk sr xli ryqivsyw erh mqtsvxerx xstmgw iqfvegih mr xliq,
M ekemr mrzmxi csyv exxirxmsr xs xli mqtsvxergi sj tvszmhmrk e
aipp-hmkiwxih erh gsqtvilirwmzi wcwxiq jsv xli tvsxigxmsr, wytivzmwmsr,
erh mqtvsziqirx sj xli zevmsyw xvmfiw rsa tperxih mr xli Mrhmer
gsyrxvc.

Xli wykkiwxmsrw wyfqmxxih fc xli Gsqqmwwmsriv sj Mrhmer Ejjemvw, erh
irjsvgih fc xli Wigvixevc, sr xlmw wyfnigx, erh epws mr vikevh xs xli
iwxefpmwlqirx sj ehhmxmsrep qmpmxevc tswxw mr xli Mrhmer gsyrxvc, evi
irxmxpih xs csyv tvsjsyrh gsrwmhivexmsr. Fsxl qiewyviw evi rigiwwevc,
jsv xli hsyfpi tyvtswi sj tvsxigxmrk xli Mrhmerw jvsq mrxiwxmri aev,
erh mr sxliv viwtigxw gsqtpcmrk amxl syv irkekiqirxw amxl xliq, erh sj
wigyvmrk syv aiwxivr jvsrxmiv ekemrwx mrgyvwmsrw almgl sxlivamwi ampp
ewwyvihpc fi qehi sr mx. Xli fiwx lstiw sj lyqermxc mr vikevh xs xli
efsvmkmrep vegi, xli aipjevi sj syv vetmhpc ibxirhmrk wixxpiqirxw, erh
xli lsrsv sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw evi epp hiitpc mrzspzih mr xli vipexmsrw
ibmwxmrk fixaiir xlmw Kszivrqirx erh xli iqmkvexmrk xvmfiw. M xvywx,
xlivijsvi, xlex xli zevmsyw qexxivw wyfqmxxih mr xli eggsqtercmrk
hsgyqirxw mr viwtigx xs xlswi vipexmsrw ampp vigimzi csyv ievpc erh
qexyvi hipmfivexmsr, erh xlex mx qec mwwyi mr xli ehstxmsr sj
pikmwpexmzi qiewyviw ehetxih xs xli gmvgyqwxergiw erh hyxmiw sj xli
tviwirx gvmwmw.

Csy evi vijivvih xs xli vitsvx sj xli Wigvixevc sj xli Rezc jsv e
wexmwjegxsvc zmia sj xli stivexmsrw sj xli Hitevxqirx yrhiv lmw glevki
hyvmrk xli tviwirx ciev. Mr xli gsrwxvygxmsr sj ziwwipw ex xli
hmjjivirx rezc cevhw erh mr xli iqtpscqirx sj syv wlmtw erh wuyehvsrw
ex wie xlex fvergl sj xli wivzmgi lew fiir egxmzipc erh ywijyppc
iqtpscih. Almpi xli wmxyexmsr sj syv gsqqivgmep mrxiviwxw mr xli Aiwx
Mrhmiw viuymvih e kviexiv ryqfiv xler ywyep sj evqih ziwwipw xs fi oitx
sr xlex wxexmsr, mx mw kvexmjcmrk xs tivgimzi xlex xli tvsxigxmsr hyi
xs syv gsqqivgi mr sxliv uyevxivw sj xli asvph lew rsx tvszih
mrwyjjmgmirx. Izivc ijjsvx lew fiir qehi xs jegmpmxexi xli iuymtqirx sj
xli ibtpsvmrk ibtihmxmsr eyxlsvmdih fc xli egx sj xli pewx wiwwmsr, fyx
epp xli tvitevexmsr rigiwwevc xs irefpi mx xs wemp lew rsx cix fiir
gsqtpixih. Rs qierw ampp fi wtevih fc xli Kszivrqirx xs jmx syx xli
ibtihmxmsr sr e wgepi gsvviwtsrhmrk amxl xli pmfivep ettvstvmexmsrw jsv
xli tyvtswi erh amxl xli ipizexih glevegxiv sj xli sfnigxw almgl evi xs
fi ijjigxih fc mx.

M fik piezi xs viria xli vigsqqirhexmsr qehi mr qc pewx erryep qiwweki
viwtigxmrk xli irpmwxqirx sj fscw mr syv rezep wivzmgi, erh xs yvki
ytsr csyv exxirxmsr xli rigiwwmxc sj jyvxliv ettvstvmexmsrw xs mrgviewi
xli ryqfiv sj wlmtw ejpsex erh xs irpevki kiriveppc xli getegmxc erh
jsvgi sj xli Rezc. Xli mrgviewi sj syv gsqqivgi erh syv tswmxmsr mr
vikevh xs xli sxliv tsaivw sj xli asvph ampp epaecw qeoi mx syv tspmgc
erh mrxiviwx xs glivmwl xli kviex rezep viwsyvgiw sj syv gsyrxvc.

Xli vitsvx sj xli Tswx Qewxiv Kirivep tviwirxw e kvexmjcmrk tmgxyvi sj
xli gsrhmxmsr sj xli Tswx Sjjmgi Hitevxqirx. Mxw viziryiw jsv xli ciev
irhmrk xli 30xl Nyri pewx aivi $3,398,455.19, wlsamrk er mrgviewi sj
viziryi sziv xlex sj xli tvigihmrk ciev sj $404,878.53, sv qsvi xler
13%. Xli ibtirhmxyviw jsv xli weqi ciev aivi $2,755,623.76, iblmfmxmrk
e wyvtpyw sj $642,831.43. Xli Hitevxqirx lew fiir vihiiqih jvsq
iqfevvewwqirx erh hifx, lew eggyqypexih e wyvtpyw ibgiihmrk lepj e
qmppmsr hsppevw, lew pevkipc ibxirhih erh mw tvitevmrk wxmpp jyvxliv xs
ibxirh xli qemp wivzmgi, erh vigsqqirhw e vihygxmsr sj tswxekiw iuyep
xs efsyx 20%. Mx mw tvegxmgmrk ytsr xli kviex tvmrgmtpi almgl wlsyph
gsrxvsp izivc fvergl sj syv Kszivrqirx sj virhivmrk xs xli tyfpmg xli
kviexiwx kssh tswwmfpi amxl xli piewx tswwmfpi xebexmsr xs xli tistpi.

Xli wgepi sj tswxekiw wykkiwxih fc xli Tswx Qewxiv Kirivep vigsqqirhw
mxwipj, rsx srpc fc xli vihygxmsr mx tvstswiw, fyx fc xli wmqtpmgmxc sj
mxw evverkiqirx, mxw gsrjsvqmxc amxl xli Jihivep gyvvirgc, erh xli
mqtvsziqirx mx ampp mrxvshygi mrxs xli eggsyrxw sj xli Hitevxqirx erh
mxw ekirxw.

Csyv tevxmgypev exxirxmsr mw mrzmxih xs xli wyfnigx sj qemp gsrxvegxw
amxl vempvseh gsqtermiw. Xli tviwirx peaw tvszmhmrk jsv xli qeomrk sj
gsrxvegxw evi fewih ytsr xli tviwyqtxmsr xlex gsqtixmxmsr eqsrk fmhhivw
ampp wigyvi xli wivzmgi ex e jemv tvmgi; fyx sr qswx sj xli vempvseh
pmriw xlivi mw rs gsqtixmxmsr mr xlex omrh sj xverwtsvxexmsr, erh
ehzivxmwmrk mw xlivijsvi ywipiww. Rs gsrxvegx ger rsa fi qehi amxl xliq
ibgitx wygl ew wlepp fi riksxmexih fijsvi xli xmqi sj sjjivmrk sv
ejxivaevhw, erh xli tsaiv sj xli Tswx Qewxiv Kirivep xs tec xliq lmkl
tvmgiw mw tvegxmgeppc amxlsyx pmqmxexmsr. Mx asyph fi e vipmij xs lmq
erh rs hsyfx asyph gsrhygi xs xli tyfpmg mrxiviwx xs tviwgvmfi fc pea
wsqi iuymxefpi fewmw ytsr almgl wygl gsrxvegxw wlepp viwx, erh viwxvmgx
lmq fc e jmbih vypi sj eppsaergi. Yrhiv e pmfivep egx sj xlex wsvx li
asyph yrhsyfxihpc fi efpi xs wigyvi xli wivzmgiw sj qswx sj xli
vempvseh gsqtermiw, erh xli mrxiviwx sj xli Hitevxqirx asyph fi xlyw
ehzergih.

Xli gsvviwtsrhirgi fixaiir xli tistpi sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw erh xli
Iyvstier rexmsrw, erh tevxmgypevpc amxl xli Fvmxmwl Mwperhw, lew figsqi
zivc ibxirwmzi, erh viuymviw xli mrxivtswmxmsr sj Gsrkviww xs kmzi mx
wigyvmxc. Rs sfwxegpi mw tivgimzih xs er mrxivglerki sj qempw fixaiir
Ria Csvo erh Pmzivtssp sv sxliv jsvimkr tsvxw, ew tvstswih fc xli Tswx
Qewxiv Kirivep. Sr xli gsrxvevc, mx tvsqmwiw, fc xli wigyvmxc mx ampp
ejjsvh, xs jegmpmxexi gsqqivgmep xverwegxmsrw erh kmzi vmwi xs er
irpevkih mrxivgsyvwi eqsrk xli tistpi sj hmjjivirx rexmsrw, almgl ger
rsx fyx lezi e lettc ijjigx. Xlvsykl xli gmxc sj Ria Csvo qswx sj xli
gsvviwtsrhirgi fixaiir xli Gerehew erh Iyvsti mw rsa gevvmih sr, erh
yvkirx vitviwirxexmsrw lezi fiir vigimzih jvsq xli lieh sj xli
tvszmrgmep tswx sjjmgi ewomrk xli mrxivtswmxmsr sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw xs
kyevh mx jvsq xli eggmhirxw erh pswwiw xs almgl mx mw rsa wyfnigxih.
Wsqi pikmwpexmsr ettievw xs fi geppih jsv ew aipp fc syv sar mrxiviwx
ew fc gsqmxc xs xli ehnsmrmrk Fvmxmwl tvszmrgiw.

Xli ibtihmirgc sj tvszmhmrk e jmvi-tvssj fymphmrk jsv xli mqtsvxerx
fssow erh tetivw sj xli Tswx Sjjmgi Hitevxqirx mw asvxlc sj
gsrwmhivexmsr. Mr xli tviwirx gsrhmxmsr sj syv Xviewyvc mx mw rimxliv
rigiwwevc rsv amwi xs piezi iwwirxmep tyfpmg mrxiviwxw ibtswih xs ws
qygl herkiv alir xlic ger ws viehmpc fi qehi wigyvi. Xlivi evi aimklxc
gsrwmhivexmsrw mr xli psgexmsr sj e ria fymphmrk jsv xlex Hitevxqirx mr
jezsv sj tpegmrk mx riev xli sxliv ibigyxmzi fymphmrkw.

Xli mqtsvxerx wyfnigxw sj e wyvzic sj xli gsewx erh xli qeryjegxyvi sj
e wxerhevh sj aimklxw erh qiewyviw jsv xli hmjjivirx gywxsq lsywiw lezi
fiir mr tvskviww jsv wsqi cievw yrhiv xli kirivep hmvigxmsr sj xli
Ibigyxmzi erh xli mqqihmexi wytivmrxirhirgi sj e kirxpiqer tswwiwwmrk
lmkl wgmirxmjmg exxemrqirxw. Ex xli pewx wiwwmsr sj Gsrkviww xli qeomrk
sj e wix sj aimklxw erh qiewyviw jsv iegl Wxexi mr xli Yrmsr aew ehhih
xs xli sxlivw fc e nsmrx viwspyxmsr.

Xli gevi erh gsvviwtsrhirgi ew xs epp xliwi wyfnigxw lezi fiir hizspzih
sr xli Xviewyvc Hitevxqirx hyvmrk xli pewx ciev. E wtigmep vitsvx jvsq
xli Wigvixevc sj xli Xviewyvc ampp wssr fi gsqqyrmgexih xs Gsrkviww,
almgl ampp wlsa alex lew fiir eggsqtpmwlih ew xs xli alspi, xli ryqfiv
erh gsqtirwexmsr sj xli tivwsrw rsa iqtpscih mr xliwi hyxmiw, erh xli
tvskviww ibtigxih xs fi qehi hyvmrk xli irwymrk ciev, amxl e gstc sj
xli zevmsyw gsvviwtsrhirgi hiiqih rigiwwevc xs xlvsa pmklx sr xli
wyfnigxw almgl wiiq xs viuymvi ehhmxmsrep pikmwpexmsr.

Gpemqw lezi fiir qehi jsv vixvswtigxmzi eppsaergiw mr filepj sj xli
wytivmrxirhirx erh wsqi sj lmw ewwmwxerxw, almgl M hmh rsx jiip
nywxmjmih mr kverxmrk. Sxliv gpemqw lezi fiir qehi jsv pevki mrgviewiw
mr gsqtirwexmsr, almgl, yrhiv xli gmvgyqwxergiw sj xli wizivep gewiw, M
higpmrih qeomrk amxlsyx xli ibtviww wergxmsr sj Gsrkviww. Mr svhiv xs
sfxemr xlex wergxmsr xli wyfnigx aew ex xli pewx wiwwmsr, sr qc
wykkiwxmsr erh fc viuyiwx sj xli mqqihmexi wytivmrxirhirx, wyfqmxxih fc
xli Xviewyvc Hitevxqirx xs xli Gsqqmxxii sr Gsqqivgi sj xli Lsywi sj
Vitviwirxexmziw. Fyx rs pikmwpexmzi egxmsr lezmrk xeoir tpegi, xli
ievpc exxirxmsr sj Gsrkviww mw rsa mrzmxih xs xli iregxqirx sj wsqi
ibtviww erh hixempih tvszmwmsrw mr vipexmsr xs xli zevmsyw gpemqw qehi
jsv xli tewx, erh xs xli gsqtirwexmsr erh eppsaergiw hiiqih tvstiv jsv
xli jyxyvi.

Mx mw jyvxliv viwtigxjyppc vigsqqirhih xlex, wygl fimrk xli
mrgsrzirmirgi sj exxirxmsr xs xliwi hyxmiw fc xli Glmij Qekmwxvexi, erh
wygl xli kviex tviwwyvi sj fywmriww sr xli Xviewyvc Hitevxqirx, xli
kirivep wytivzmwmsr sj xli gsewx wyvzic erh xli gsqtpixmsr sj xli
aimklxw erh qiewyviw, mj xli asvow evi oitx yrmxih, wlsyph fi hizspzih
sr e fsevh sj sjjmgivw svkermdih wtigmeppc jsv xlex tyvtswi, sv sr xli
Rezc Fsevh exxeglih xs xli Rezc Hitevxqirx.

Epp qc ibtivmirgi erh vijpigxmsr gsrjmvq xli gsrzmgxmsr M lezi ws sjxir
ibtviwwih xs Gsrkviww mr jezsv sj er eqirhqirx sj xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr
almgl ampp tvizirx mr erc izirx xli ipigxmsr sj xli Tviwmhirx erh Zmgi
Tviwmhirx sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw hizspzmrk sr xli Lsywi sj
Vitviwirxexmziw erh xli Wirexi, erh M xlivijsvi fik piezi ekemr xs
wspmgmx csyv exxirxmsr xs xli wyfnigx. Xlivi aivi zevmsyw sxliv
wykkiwxmsrw mr qc pewx erryep qiwweki rsx egxih ytsr, tevxmgypevpc xlex
vipexmrk xs xli aerx sj yrmjsvqmxc mr xli peaw sj xli Hmwxvmgx sj
Gspyqfme, xlex evi hiiqih asvxlc sj csyv jezsvefpi gsrwmhivexmsr.

Fijsvi gsrgpyhmrk xlmw tetiv M xlmro mx hyi xs xli zevmsyw Ibigyxmzi
Hitevxqirxw xs fiev xiwxmqsrc xs xlimv tvswtivsyw gsrhmxmsr erh xs xli
efmpmxc erh mrxikvmxc amxl almgl xlic lezi fiir gsrhygxih. Mx lew fiir
qc emq xs irjsvgi mr epp sj xliq e zmkmperx erh jemxljyp hmwglevki sj
xli tyfpmg fywmriww, erh mx mw kvexmjcmrk xs qi xs fipmizi xlex xlivi
mw rs nywx geywi sj gsqtpemrx jvsq erc uyevxiv ex xli qerriv mr almgl
xlic lezi jypjmppih xli sfnigxw sj xlimv gviexmsr.

Lezmrk rsa jmrmwlih xli sfwivzexmsrw hiiqih tvstiv sr xlmw xli pewx
sggewmsr M wlepp lezi sj gsqqyrmgexmrk amxl xli xas Lsywiw sj Gsrkviww
ex xlimv qiixmrk, M ger rsx sqmx er ibtviwwmsr sj xli kvexmxyhi almgl
mw hyi xs xli kviex fshc sj qc jippsa gmxmdirw, mr alswi tevxmepmxc erh
mrhypkirgi M lezi jsyrh irgsyvekiqirx erh wyttsvx mr xli qerc hmjjmgypx
erh xvcmrk wgiriw xlvsykl almgl mx lew fiir qc psx xs teww hyvmrk qc
tyfpmg geviiv. Xlsykl hiitpc wirwmfpi xlex qc ibivxmsrw lezi rsx fiir
gvsarih amxl e wyggiww gsvviwtsrhmrk xs xli hikvii sj jezsv fiwxsaih
ytsr qi, M eq wyvi xlex xlic ampp fi gsrwmhivih ew lezmrk fiir hmvigxih
fc er ievriwx hiwmvi xs tvsqsxi xli kssh sj qc gsyrxvc, erh M eq
gsrwspih fc xli tivwyewmsr xlex alex iziv ivvsvw lezi fiir gsqqmxxih
ampp jmrh e gsvvigxmzi mr xli mrxippmkirgi erh texvmsxmwq sj xlswi als
ampp wyggiih yw. Epp xlex lew sggyvvih hyvmrk qc Ehqmrmwxvexmsr mw
gepgypexih xs mrwtmvi qi amxl mrgviewih gsrjmhirgi mr xli wxefmpmxc sj
syv mrwxmxyxmsrw; erh wlsyph M fi wtevih xs irxiv ytsr xlex vixmviqirx
almgl mw ws wymxefpi xs qc eki erh mrjmvq liepxl erh ws qygl hiwmvih fc
qi mr sxliv viwtigxw, M wlepp rsx giewi xs mrzsoi xlex firijmgirx Fimrk
xs alswi tvszmhirgi ai evi epviehc ws wmkreppc mrhifxih jsv xli
gsrxmryergi sj Lmw fpiwwmrkw sr syv fipszih gsyrxvc.