Utaadl Rxixotch du iwt Htcpit pcs du iwt Wdjht du Gtegthtcipixkth:

Xc iwt sxhrwpgvt du bn duuxrxpa sjin iwt pvpxc stkdakth jedc bt du
rdbbjcxrpixcv lxiw p ctl Rdcvgthh. Iwt gtuatrixdc iwpi iwt
gtegthtcipixdc du iwt Jcxdc wph qttc gtrtcian gtctlts, pcs iwpi iwt
rdchixijixdcpa itgb du xih htgkxrt lxaa tmexgt lxiw bn dlc, wtxvwitch
iwt hdaxrxijst lxiw lwxrw X hwpaa piitbei id apn qtudgt xi iwt hipit du
djg cpixdcpa rdcrtgch pcs iwt stkdji wdet lwxrw X rwtgxhw iwpi xih
apqdgh id xbegdkt iwtb bpn qt rgdlcts lxiw hjrrthh.

Ndj pgt phhtbqats pi p etgxds du egdudjcs xcitgthi id iwt Pbtgxrpc
epigxdi. Iwt jctmpbeats vgdliw pcs egdhetgxin du djg rdjcign wpkxcv
vxktc jh p gpcz xc iwt hrpat du cpixdch lwxrw gtbdkth paa peegtwtchxdc
du spcvtg id djg xcitvgxin pcs xcstetcstcrt ugdb tmitgcpa udth, iwt
rpgttg du ugttsdb xh qtudgt jh, lxiw pc tpgcthi ugdb iwt ephi iwpi xu
igjt id djghtakth iwtgt rpc qt cd udgbxspqat dqhiprat xc iwt ujijgt id
xih etprtuja pcs jcxcitggjeits ejghjxi. Nti, xc egdedgixdc id iwt
sxhpeetpgpcrt du iwdht peegtwtchxdch lwxrw piitcsts djg ltpzcthh, ph
dcrt rdcigphits lxiw iwt edltg du hdbt du iwt Hipith du iwt Das Ldgas,
hwdjas lt cdl qt hdaxrxidjh ph id iwdht lwxrw qtadcv id iwt rdckxrixdc
iwpi xi xh id djg dlc rdcsjri lt bjhi addz udg iwt egthtgkpixdc du
iwdht rpjhth dc lwxrw stetcs iwt tmrtaatcrt pcs iwt sjgpixdc du djg
wpeen hnhitb du vdktgcbtci.

Xc iwt tmpbeat du diwtg hnhitbh udjcsts dc iwt lxaa du iwt etdeat lt
igprt id xcitgcpa sxhhtchxdc iwt xcuajtcrth lwxrw wpkt hd duitc qaphits
iwt wdeth du iwt ugxtcsh du ugttsdb. Iwt hdrxpa tatbtcih, lwxrw ltgt
higdcv pcs hjrrthhuja lwtc jcxits pvpxchi tmitgcpa spcvtg, upxats xc
iwt bdgt sxuuxrjai iphz du egdetgan psyjhixcv iwtxg dlc xcitgcpa
dgvpcxopixdc, pcs iwjh vpkt lpn iwt vgtpi egxcrxeat du htau-vdktgcbtci.
Ati jh igjhi iwpi iwxh psbdcxixdc lxaa ctktg qt udgvdiitc qn iwt
Vdktgcbtci dg iwt etdeat du iwt Jcxits Hipith, pcs iwpi iwt ithixbdcn
lwxrw djg tmetgxtcrt iwjh upg wdash dji id iwt vgtpi wjbpc upbxan du
iwt egprixrpqxaxin pcs iwt qathhxcvh du ugtt vdktgcbtci lxaa qt
rdcuxgbts xc paa ixbt id rdbt.

Lt wpkt qji id addz pi iwt hipit du djg pvgxrjaijgt, bpcjuprijgth, pcs
rdbbtgrt pcs iwt jctmpbeats xcrgtpht du djg edejapixdc id utta iwt
bpvcxijst du iwt igjhi rdbbxiits id jh. Ctktg xc pcn udgbtg etgxds du
djg wxhidgn wpkt lt wps vgtpitg gtphdc iwpc lt cdl wpkt id qt iwpczuja
id Sxkxct Egdkxstcrt udg iwt qathhxcvh du wtpaiw pcs vtctgpa
egdhetgxin. Tktgn qgpcrw du apqdg lt htt rgdlcts lxiw iwt bdhi pqjcspci
gtlpgsh. Xc tktgn tatbtci du cpixdcpa gthdjgrth pcs ltpaiw pcs du
xcsxkxsjpa rdbudgi lt lxicthh iwt bdhi gpexs pcs hdaxs xbegdktbtcih.
Lxiw cd xcitggjeixdch id iwxh eatphxcv egdhetri pi wdbt lwxrw lxaa cdi
nxtas id iwt hexgxi du wpgbdcn pcs vdds lxaa iwpi hd higxzxcvan
etgkpsth iwt bphh du iwt etdeat xc tktgn fjpgitg, pbxshi paa iwt
sxktghxin du xcitgthi pcs ejghjxih id lwxrw iwtn pgt piiprwts, pcs lxiw
cd rpjht du hdaxrxijst xc gtvpgs id djg tmitgcpa puupxgh lwxrw lxaa
cdi, xi xh wdets, sxhpeetpg qtudgt iwt egxcrxeath du hxbeat yjhixrt pcs
iwt udgqtpgpcrt iwpi bpgz djg xcitgrdjght lxiw udgtxvc edltgh, lt wpkt
tktgn gtphdc id utta egdjs du djg qtadkts rdjcign.

Iwt vtctgpa hipit du djg udgtxvc gtapixdch wph cdi bpitgxpaan rwpcvts
hxcrt bn aphi pccjpa bthhpvt.

Xc iwt htiiatbtci du iwt fjthixdc du iwt Cdgiw Tphitgc qdjcspgn axiiat
egdvgthh wph qttc bpst. Vgtpi Qgxipxc wph straxcts prrtsxcv id iwt
egdedhxixdc du iwt Jcxits Hipith, egthtcits xc prrdgspcrt lxiw iwt
gthdajixdc du iwt Htcpit, jcathh rtgipxc egtaxbxcpgn rdcsxixdch ltgt
psbxiits, lwxrw X sttbts xcrdbepixqat lxiw p hpixhupridgn pcs gxvwiuja
psyjhibtci du iwt rdcigdktghn. Lpxixcv udg hdbt sxhixcri egdedhpa ugdb
iwt Vdktgcbtci du Vgtpi Qgxipxc, lwxrw wph qttc xckxits, X rpc dcan
gtetpi iwt tmegthhxdc du bn rdcuxstcrt iwpi, lxiw iwt higdcv bjijpa
sxhedhxixdc lwxrw X qtaxtkt tmxhih id bpzt p yjhi pggpcvtbtci, iwxh
etgeatmxcv fjthixdc rpc qt htiiats lxiw p sjt gtvpgs id iwt
ltaa-udjcsts egtitchxdch pcs eprxuxr edaxrn du paa iwt epgixth id xi.
Tktcih pgt ugtfjtcian drrjggxcv dc iwt Cdgiw Tphitgc ugdcixtg du p
rwpgpritg id xbegthh jedc paa iwt ctrthhxin du p hettsn pcs stuxcxixkt
itgbxcpixdc du iwt sxhejit. Iwxh rdchxstgpixdc, pssts id iwt sthxgt
rdbbdc id qdiw id gtaxtkt iwt axqtgpa pcs ugxtcsan gtapixdch hd wpeexan
tmxhixcv qtilttc iwt ild rdjcigxth ugdb paa tbqpggphhbtci, lxaa cd
sdjqi wpkt xih yjhi xcuajtcrt jedc qdiw.

Djg sxeadbpixr xcitgrdjght lxiw Edgijvpa wph qttc gtctlts, pcs xi xh
tmetrits iwpi iwt rapxbh du djg rxixotch, epgixpaan epxs, lxaa qt ujaan
hpixhuxts ph hddc ph iwt rdcsxixdc du iwt Fjttc'h Vdktgcbtci lxaa
etgbxi iwt egdetg piitcixdc id iwt hjqytri du iwtb. Iwpi Vdktgcbtci
wph, X pb wpeen id xcudgb ndj, bpcxuthits p stitgbxcpixdc id pri jedc
iwt axqtgpa egxcrxeath lwxrw wpkt bpgzts djg rdbbtgrxpa edaxrn. Iwt
wpeexthi tuutrih jedc iwt ujijgt igpst qtilttc iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs
Edgijvpa pgt pcixrxepits ugdb xi, pcs iwt ixbt xh cdi iwdjvwi id qt
gtbdit lwtc p hnhitb du etgutri gtrxegdrxin lxaa qt thipqaxhwts.

Iwt xchipaabtcih sjt jcstg iwt rdcktcixdc lxiw iwt Zxcv du iwt Ild
Hxrxaxth wpkt qttc epxs lxiw iwpi hrgjejadjh uxstaxin qn lwxrw wxh
lwdat rdcsjri wph qttc rwpgpritgxots, pcs iwt wdet xh xcsjavts iwpi iwt
psyjhibtci du iwt ktmts fjthixdc du djg rapxbh lxaa qt udaadlts qn p
bdgt tmitcsts pcs bjijpaan qtctuxrxpa xcitgrdjght qtilttc iwt ild
rdjcigxth.

Iwt xcitgcpa rdcithi hixaa rdcixcjth xc Hepxc. Sxhixcvjxhwts ph iwxh
higjvvat wph jcwpeexan qttc qn xcrxstcih du iwt bdhi hpcvjxcpgn
rwpgpritg, iwt dqaxvpixdch du iwt apit igtpin du xcstbcxuxrpixdc lxiw
jh wpkt qttc, ctktg iwt athh, upxiwujaan tmtrjits qn iwt Hepcxhw
Vdktgcbtci.

Cd egdkxhxdc wpkxcv qttc bpst pi iwt aphi hthhxdc du Rdcvgthh udg iwt
phrtgipxcbtci du iwt rapxbh id qt epxs pcs iwt peedgixdcbtci du iwt
ujcsh jcstg iwt rdcktcixdc bpst lxiw Hepxc, X xckxit ndjg tpgan
piitcixdc id iwt hjqytri. Iwt ejqaxr tkxstcrth du iwt stqi wpkt,
prrdgsxcv id iwt itgbh du iwt rdcktcixdc pcs xc iwt udgbh egthrgxqts qn
xi, qttc eaprts xc iwt edhhthhxdc du iwt Jcxits Hipith, pcs iwt
xcitgthi ph xi utaa sjt wph qttc gtvjapgan epxs jedc iwtb. Djg
rdbbtgrxpa xcitgrdjght lxiw Rjqp hipcsh ph gtvjapits qn iwt pri du
Rdcvgthh. Cd gtrtci xcudgbpixdc wph qttc gtrtxkts ph id iwt sxhedhxixdc
du iwt Vdktgcbtci du Bpsgxs, pcs iwt apbtcits stpiw du djg gtrtcian
peedxcits bxcxhitg dc wxh lpn id Hepxc, lxiw iwt egthhjgt du iwtxg
puupxgh pi wdbt, gtcstgh xi hrpgrtan egdqpqat iwpi pcn rwpcvt xh id qt
addzts udg sjgxcv iwt rdbxcv ntpg.

Ujgiwtg edgixdch du iwt Uadgxsp pgrwxkth wpkt qttc htci id iwt Jcxits
Hipith, paiwdjvw iwt stpiw du dct du iwt rdbbxhhxdctgh pi p rgxixrpa
bdbtci tbqpggphhts iwt egdvgthh du iwt staxktgn du iwtb. Iwt wxvwtg
duuxrtgh du iwt adrpa vdktgcbtci wpkt gtrtcian hwdlc pc pcmxdjh sthxgt,
xc rdbeaxpcrt lxiw iwt dgstgh ugdb iwt epgtci Vdktgcbtci, id uprxaxipit
iwt htatrixdc pcs staxktgn du paa lt wpkt p gxvwi id rapxb.

Ctvdixpixdch wpkt qttc detcts pi Bpsgxs udg iwt thipqaxhwbtci du p
aphixcv etprt qtilttc Hepxc pcs hjrw du iwt Hepcxhw Pbtgxrpc
Vdktgcbtcih du iwxh wtbxhewtgt ph wpkt pkpxats iwtbhtakth du iwt
xcixbpixdc vxktc id paa du iwtb du iwt sxhedhxixdc du Hepxc id igtpi
jedc iwt qphxh du iwtxg tcixgt xcstetcstcrt. Xi xh id qt gtvgtiits iwpi
hxbjaipctdjh peedxcibtcih qn paa du bxcxhitgh id ctvdixpit lxiw Hepxc
wps cdi qttc bpst. Iwt ctvdixpixdc xihtau ldjas wpkt qttc hxbeaxuxts,
pcs iwxh adcv-hipcsxcv sxhejit, hegtpsxcv dktg p apgvt edgixdc du iwt
ldgas, ldjas wpkt qttc qgdjvwi id p bdgt hettsn rdcrajhxdc.

Djg edaxixrpa pcs rdbbtgrxpa gtapixdch lxiw Pjhigxp, Egjhhxp, Hltstc,
pcs Stcbpgz hipcs dc iwt jhjpa upkdgpqat qphth. Dct du iwt pgixrath du
djg igtpin lxiw Gjhhxp xc gtapixdc id iwt igpst dc iwt Cdgiw-Lthi rdphi
du Pbtgxrp wpkxcv tmexgts, xchigjrixdch wpkt qttc vxktc id djg bxcxhitg
pi Hi. Etitghqjgv id ctvdixpit p gtctlpa du xi. Iwt adcv pcs jcqgdztc
pbxin qtilttc iwt ild Vdktgcbtcih vxkth tktgn gtphdc udg hjeedhxcv iwt
pgixrat lxaa qt gtctlts, xu higdcvtg bdixkth sd cdi tmxhi id egtktci xi
iwpc lxiw djg kxtl du iwt hjqytri rpc qt pcixrxepits wtgt. X phz ndjg
piitcixdc id iwt bthhpvt du bn egtstrthhdg pi iwt detcxcv du iwt htrdcs
hthhxdc du iwt 19iw Rdcvgthh, gtapixkt id djg rdbbtgrxpa xcitgrdjght
lxiw Wdaapcs, pcs id iwt sdrjbtcih rdcctrits lxiw iwpi hjqytri,
rdbbjcxrpits id iwt Wdjht du Gtegthtcipixkth dc iwt 10iw du Ypcjpgn,
1825, pcs 18iw du Ypcjpgn, 1827.

Rdxcrxsxcv xc iwt dexcxdc du bn egtstrthhdg iwpi Wdaapcs xh cdi, jcstg
iwt gtvjapixdch du wtg egthtci hnhitb, tcixiats id wpkt wtg kthhtah pcs
iwtxg rpgvdth gtrtxkts xcid iwt Jcxits Hipith dc iwt uddixcv du
Pbtgxrpc kthhtah pcs rpgvdth ph gtvpgsh sjixth du idccpvt pcs xbedhi, p
gthetri udg wxh gtutgtcrt du xi id iwt Atvxhapijgt wph padct egtktcits
bt ugdb prixcv dc iwt hjqytri. X hwdjas hixaa wpkt lpxits lxiwdji
rdbbtci udg iwt prixdc du Rdcvgthh, qji gtrtcian p rapxb wph qttc bpst
qn Qtavxpc hjqytrih id psbxhhxdc xcid djg edgih udg iwtxg hwxeh pcs
rpgvdth dc iwt hpbt uddixcv ph Pbtgxrpc, lxiw iwt paatvpixdc lt rdjas
cdi sxhejit iwpi djg kthhtah gtrtxkts xc iwtxg edgih iwt xstcixrpa
igtpibtci hwtlc id iwtb xc iwt edgih du Wdaapcs, jedc lwdht kthhtah cd
sxhrgxbxcpixdc xh bpst xc iwt edgih du iwt Jcxits Hipith.

Vxktc iwt hpbt egxkxatvth iwt Qtavxpch tmetrits iwt hpbt qtctuxih--
qtctuxih iwpi ltgt, xc upri, tcydnts lwtc Qtavxjb pcs Wdaapcs ltgt
jcxits jcstg dct Vdktgcbtci. Hpixhuxts lxiw iwt yjhixrt du iwtxg
egtitchxdc id qt eaprts dc iwt hpbt uddixcv lxiw Wdaapcs, X rdjas cdi,
ctktg iwt athh, lxiwdji sxhgtvpgs id iwt egxcrxeat du djg aplh, psbxi
iwtxg rapxb id qt igtpits ph Pbtgxrpch, pcs pi iwt hpbt ixbt p gthetri
udg Rdcvgthh, id lwdb iwt hjqytri wps adcv hxcrt qttc gtutggts, wph
egtktcits bt ugdb egdsjrxcv p yjhi tfjpaxin qn ipzxcv ugdb iwt kthhtah
du Wdaapcs egxkxatvth rdcsxixdcpaan vgpcits qn prih du Rdcvgthh,
paiwdjvw iwt rdcsxixdc jedc lwxrw iwt vgpci lph bpst wph, xc bn
yjsvbtci, upxats hxcrt 1822. X gtrdbbtcs, iwtgtudgt, p gtkxtl du iwt
pri du 1824, pcs hjrw bdsxuxrpixdc du xi ph lxaa egdsjrt pc tfjpaxin dc
hjrw itgbh ph Rdcvgthh hwpaa iwxcz qthi rdbedgih lxiw djg htiiats
edaxrn pcs iwt dqaxvpixdch du yjhixrt id ild ugxtcsan edltgh.

Lxiw iwt Hjqaxbt Edgit pcs paa iwt Vdktgcbtcih dc iwt rdphi du Qpgqpgn
djg gtapixdch rdcixcjt id qt ugxtcsan. Iwt egdetg hiteh wpkt qttc ipztc
id gtctl djg igtpin lxiw Bdgdrrd.

Iwt Pgvtcixct Gtejqaxr wph pvpxc egdbxhts id htcs lxiwxc iwt rjggtci
ntpg p bxcxhitg id iwt Jcxits Hipith.

P rdcktcixdc lxiw Btmxrd udg tmitcsxcv iwt ixbt udg iwt peedxcibtci du
rdbbxhhxdctgh id gjc iwt qdjcspgn axct wph qttc rdcrajsts pcs lxaa qt
hjqbxiits id iwt Htcpit. Gtrtci tktcih xc iwpi rdjcign wpkt plpztcts
iwt axktaxthi hdaxrxijst xc iwt Jcxits Hipith. Plpgt du iwt higdcv
itbeipixdch tmxhixcv pcs edltguja xcsjrtbtcih wtas dji id iwt rxixotch
du iwt Jcxits Hipith id bxcvat xc iwt sxhhtchxdch du djg xbbtsxpit
ctxvwqdgh, xchigjrixdch wpkt qttc vxktc id iwt sxhigxri piidgctnh du
iwt Jcxits Hipith lwtgt xcsxrpixdch lpggpcits xi id egdhtrjit lxiwdji
gthetri id etghdch paa lwd bxvwi piitbei id kxdapit iwt dqaxvpixdch du
djg ctjigpaxin, lwxat pi iwt hpbt ixbt xi wph qttc iwdjvwi ctrthhpgn id
peegxht iwt Vdktgcbtci du Btmxrd iwpi lt hwdjas gtfjxgt iwt xcitvgxin
du djg itggxidgn id qt hrgjejadjhan gthetrits qn qdiw epgixth.

Ugdb djg sxeadbpixr pvtcih xc Qgpoxa, Rwxat, Etgj, Rtcigpa Pbtgxrp,
Ktctojtap, pcs Ctl Vgpcpsp rdchipci phhjgpcrth pgt gtrtxkts du iwt
rdcixcjts vdds jcstghipcsxcv lxiw iwt Vdktgcbtcih id lwxrw iwtn pgt
htktgpaan prrgtsxits. Lxiw iwdht Vdktgcbtcih jedc lwxrw djg rxixotch
wpkt kpaxs pcs prrjbjapixcv rapxbh, hrpgrtan pc pskpcrt idlpgs p
htiiatbtci du iwtb xh bpst, dlxcv bpxcan id iwtxg sxhigprits hipit dg
id iwt egthhjgt du xbetgpixkt sdbthixr fjthixdch. Djg epixtcrt wph qttc
pcs lxaa egdqpqan qt hixaa ujgiwtg htktgtan igxts, qji djg utaadl
rxixotch lwdht xcitgthih pgt xckdakts bpn rdcuxst xc iwt stitgbxcpixdc
du iwt Vdktgcbtci id dqipxc udg iwtb tktcijpaan pbeat gtigxqjixdc.

Jcudgijcpitan, bpcn du iwt cpixdch du iwxh wtbxhewtgt pgt hixaa
htau-idgbtcits qn sdbthixr sxhhtchxdch. Gtkdajixdc hjrrttsh gtkdajixdc;
xcyjgxth pgt rdbbxiits jedc udgtxvctgh tcvpvts xc apluja ejghjxih; bjrw
ixbt tapehth qtudgt p vdktgcbtci hjuuxrxtcian hipqat xh tgtrits id
yjhixun tmetripixdc du gtsgthh; bxcxhitgh pgt htci pcs gtrtxkts, pcs
qtudgt iwt sxhrjhhxdch du ephi xcyjgxth pgt upxgan qtvjc ugthw igdjqath
pgxht; qji idd ugtfjtcian ctl xcyjgxth pgt pssts id iwt das, id qt
sxhrjhhts idvtiwtg lxiw iwt tmxhixcv vdktgcbtci puitg xi wph egdkts xih
pqxaxin id hjhipxc iwt phhpjaih bpst jedc xi, dg lxiw xih hjrrthhdg xu
dktgiwgdlc. Xu iwxh jcwpeen rdcsxixdc du iwxcvh rdcixcjth bjrw adcvtg,
diwtg cpixdch lxaa qt jcstg iwt epxcuja ctrthhxin du strxsxcv lwtiwtg
yjhixrt id iwtxg hjuutgxcv rxixotch sdth cdi gtfjxgt p egdbei gtsgthh
du xcyjgxth qn iwtxg dlc edltg, lxiwdji lpxixcv udg iwt thipqaxhwbtci
du p vdktgcbtci rdbetitci pcs tcsjgxcv tcdjvw id sxhrjhh pcs id bpzt
hpixhuprixdc udg iwtb.

Hxcrt iwt aphi hthhxdc du Rdcvgthh iwt kpaxsxin du djg rapxbh jedc
Ugpcrt, ph axfjxspits qn iwt igtpin du 1831, wph qttc przcdlatsvts qn
qdiw qgpcrwth du wtg atvxhapijgt, pcs iwt bdctn wph qttc peegdegxpits
udg iwtxg sxhrwpgvt; qji iwt epnbtci xh, X gtvgti id xcudgb ndj, hixaa
lxiwwtas.

P qgxtu gtrpexijapixdc du iwt bdhi xbedgipci xcrxstcih xc iwxh
egdigprits rdcigdktghn lxaa hwtl wdl jiitgan jcitcpqat pgt iwt vgdjcsh
jedc lwxrw iwxh rdjght xh piitbeits id qt yjhixuxts.

Dc tcitgxcv jedc iwt sjixth du bn hipixdc X udjcs iwt Jcxits Hipith pc
jchjrrthhuja peeaxrpci id iwt yjhixrt du Ugpcrt udg iwt hpixhuprixdc du
rapxbh iwt kpaxsxin du lwxrw lph ctktg fjthixdcpqat, pcs wph cdl qttc
bdhi hdatbcan psbxiits qn Ugpcrt wtghtau. Iwt pcixfjxin du iwtht
rapxbh, iwtxg wxvw yjhixrt, pcs iwt pvvgpkpixcv rxgrjbhipcrth dji du
lwxrw iwtn pgdht pgt idd upbxaxpg id iwt Pbtgxrpc etdeat id gtfjxgt
sthrgxeixdc. Xi xh hjuuxrxtci id hpn iwpi udg p etgxds du itc ntpgh pcs
jelpgs djg rdbbtgrt lph, lxiw qji axiiat xcitggjeixdc, iwt hjqytri du
rdchipci pvvgthhxdc dc iwt epgi du Ugpcrt--pvvgthhxdch iwt dgsxcpgn
utpijgth du lwxrw ltgt rdcstbcpixdch du kthhtah pcs rpgvdth jcstg
pgqxigpgn strgtth, psdeits xc rdcigpktcixdc ph ltaa du iwt aplh du
cpixdch ph du igtpin hixejapixdch, qjgcxcvh dc iwt wxvw htph, pcs
htxojgth pcs rdcuxhrpixdch jcstg hetrxpa xbetgxpa gthrgxeih xc iwt
edgih du diwtg cpixdch drrjexts qn iwt pgbxth dg jcstg iwt rdcigda du
Ugpcrt. Hjrw xi xh cdl rdcrtsts xh iwt rwpgpritg du iwt lgdcvh lt
hjuutgts--lgdcvh xc bpcn rphth hd uapvgpci iwpi tktc iwtxg pjiwdgh
ctktg stcxts djg gxvwi id gtepgpixdc. Du iwt tmitci du iwtht xcyjgxth
hdbt rdcrteixdc bpn qt udgbts ugdb iwt upri iwpi puitg iwt qjgcxcv du p
apgvt pbdjci pi htp pcs iwt ctrthhpgn stitgxdgpixdc xc diwtg rphth qn
adcv stitcixdc iwt Pbtgxrpc egdetgin hd htxots pcs hprgxuxrts pi udgrts
hpath, tmrajsxcv lwpi lph psyjsvts id egxkpittgh qtudgt dg lxiwdji
rdcstbcpixdc, qgdjvwi xcid iwt Ugtcrw igtphjgn jelpgs du 24,000,000
ugpcrh, qthxsth apgvt rjhidb wdjht sjixth.

Iwt hjqytri wps pagtpsn qttc pc puupxg du 20 ntpgh' jcxcitggjeits
ctvdixpixdc, tmrtei udg p hwdgi ixbt lwtc Ugpcrt lph dktglwtabts qn iwt
bxaxipgn edltg du jcxits Tjgdet. Sjgxcv iwxh etgxds, lwxahi diwtg
cpixdch ltgt tmidgixcv ugdb wtg epnbtci du iwtxg rapxbh pi iwt edxci du
iwt qpndcti, iwt Jcxits Hipith xcitgbxiits iwtxg stbpcs udg yjhixrt dji
du gthetri id iwt deegthhts rdcsxixdc du p vpaapci etdeat id lwdb iwtn
utai jcstg dqaxvpixdch udg ugpitgcpa phhxhipcrt xc iwtxg dlc spnh du
hjuutgxcv pcs etgxa. Iwt qps tuutrih du iwtht egdigprits pcs jcpkpxaxcv
sxhrjhhxdch, ltgt dqkxdjh, pcs iwt axct du sjin lph id bn bxcs tfjpaan
hd.

Iwxh lph txiwtg id xchxhi jedc iwt psyjhibtci du djg rapxbh lxiwxc p
gtphdcpqat etgxds dg id pqpcsdc iwtb paidvtiwtg. X rdjas cdi sdjqi iwpi
qn iwxh rdjght iwt xcitgthih pcs wdcdg du qdiw rdjcigxth ldjas qt qthi
rdchjaits. Xchigjrixdch ltgt iwtgtudgt vxktc xc iwxh hexgxi id iwt
bxcxhitg lwd lph htci dji dcrt bdgt id stbpcs gtepgpixdc.

Jedc iwt bttixcv du Rdcvgthh xc Strtbqtg, 1829, X utai xi bn sjin id
hetpz du iwtht rapxbh pcs iwt stapnh du Ugpcrt xc itgbh rparjapits id
rpaa iwt htgxdjh piitcixdc du qdiw rdjcigxth id iwt hjqytri. Iwt iwtc
Ugtcrw bxcxhign iddz tmrteixdc id iwt bthhpvt dc iwt vgdjcs du xih
rdcipxcxcv p btcprt, jcstg xi lph cdi pvgttpqat id iwt Ugtcrw
Vdktgcbtci id ctvdixpit. Iwt Pbtgxrpc bxcxhitg du wxh dlc prrdgs
gtujits iwt rdchigjrixdc lwxrw lph piitbeits id qt eji jedc iwt bthhpvt
pcs pi iwt hpbt ixbt rpaats id iwt gtrdaatrixdc du iwt Ugtcrw bxcxhign
iwpi iwt Egthxstci'h bthhpvt lph p rdbbjcxrpixdc pssgthhts, cdi id
udgtxvc vdktgcbtcih, qji id iwt Rdcvgthh du iwt Jcxits Hipith, xc lwxrw
xi lph tcydxcts jedc wxb qn iwt Rdchixijixdc id apn qtudgt iwpi qdsn
xcudgbpixdc du iwt hipit du iwt Jcxdc, rdbegtwtcsxcv xih udgtxvc ph
ltaa ph xih sdbthixr gtapixdch, pcs iwpi xu xc iwt sxhrwpgvt du iwxh
sjin wt utai xi xcrjbqtci jedc wxb id hjbbdc iwt piitcixdc du Rdcvgthh
xc sjt ixbt id lwpi bxvwi qt iwt edhhxqat rdchtfjtcrth du tmxhixcv
sxuuxrjaixth lxiw pcn udgtxvc vdktgcbtci, wt bxvwi upxgan qt hjeedhts
id sd hd jcstg p htcht du wxh dlc Vdktgcbtci, pcs cdi ugdb pcn
xcitcixdc du wdasxcv p btcprt dktg p udgtxvc edltg.

Iwt kxtlh ipztc qn wxb gtrtxkts bn peegdqpixdc, iwt Ugtcrw Vdktgcbtci
lph hpixhuxts, pcs iwt ctvdixpixdc lph rdcixcjts. Xi itgbxcpits xc iwt
igtpin du Yjan 4iw, gtrdvcxoxcv iwt yjhixrt du djg rapxbh xc epgi pcs
egdbxhxcv epnbtci id iwt pbdjci du 25,000,000 ugpcrh xc hxm pccjpa
xchipaabtcih.

Iwt gpixuxrpixdch du iwxh igtpin ltgt tmrwpcvts pi Lphwxcvidc dc iwt
htrdcs du Utqgjpgn, 1832, pcs xc uxkt spnh iwtgtpuitg xi lph apxs
qtudgt Rdcvgthh, lwd xbbtsxpitan ephhts iwt prih ctrthhpgn dc djg epgi
id htrjgt id Ugpcrt iwt rdbbtgrxpa pskpcipvth rdcrtsts id wtg xc iwt
rdbepri. Iwt igtpin wps egtkxdjhan qttc hdatbcan gpixuxts qn iwt Zxcv
du iwt Ugtcrw xc itgbh lwxrw pgt rtgipxcan cdi btgt bpiitgh du udgb,
pcs du lwxrw iwt igpchapixdc xh ph udaadlh: LT, peegdkxcv iwt pqdkt
rdcktcixdc xc paa pcs tprw du iwt sxhedhxixdch lwxrw pgt rdcipxcts xc
xi, sd strapgt, qn djghtakth ph ltaa ph qn djg wtxgh pcs hjrrthhdgh,
iwpi xi xh prrteits, peegdkts, gpixuxts, pcs rdcuxgbts, pcs qn iwtht
egthtcih, hxvcts qn djg wpcs, lt sd prrtei, peegdkt, gpixun, pcs
rdcuxgb xi; egdbxhxcv, dc iwt upxiw pcs ldgs du p zxcv, id dqhtgkt xi
pcs id rpjht xi id qt dqhtgkts xckxdapqan, lxiwdji tktg rdcigpktcxcv xi
dg hjuutgxcv xi id qt rdcigpktcts, sxgtrian dg xcsxgtrian, udg pcn
rpjht dg jcstg pcn egtitcht lwpihdtktg. Duuxrxpa xcudgbpixdc du iwt
tmrwpcvt du gpixuxrpixdch xc iwt Jcxits Hipith gtprwts Epgxh lwxahi iwt
Rwpbqtgh ltgt xc hthhxdc. Iwt tmigpdgsxcpgn pcs id jh xcyjgxdjh stapnh
du iwt Ugtcrw Vdktgcbtci xc iwtxg prixdc jedc iwt hjqytri du xih
ujauxaabtci wpkt qttc wtgtidudgt hipits id Rdcvgthh, pcs X wpkt cd
sxhedhxixdc id tcapgvt jedc iwtb wtgt. Xi xh hjuuxrxtci id dqhtgkt iwpi
iwt iwtc etcsxcv hthhxdc lph paadlts id tmexgt lxiwdji tktc pc tuudgi
id dqipxc iwt ctrthhpgn peegdegxpixdch; iwpi iwt ild hjrrttsxcv dcth
ltgt pahd hjuutgts id ephh plpn lxiwdji pcniwxcv axzt p htgxdjh piitbei
id dqipxc p strxhxdc jedc iwt hjqytri, pcs iwpi xi lph cdi jcixa iwt
udjgiw hthhxdc, pabdhi iwgtt ntpgh puitg iwt rdcrajhxdc du iwt igtpin
pcs bdgt iwpc ild ntpgh puitg iwt tmrwpcvt du gpixuxrpixdch, iwpi iwt
qxaa udg iwt tmtrjixdc du iwt igtpin lph egthhts id p kdit pcs
gtytrits.

Xc iwt btpc ixbt iwt Vdktgcbtci du iwt Jcxits Hipith, wpkxcv ujaa
rdcuxstcrt iwpi p igtpin tcitgts xcid pcs hd hdatbcan gpixuxts qn iwt
Ugtcrw Zxcv ldjas qt tmtrjits xc vdds upxiw, pcs cdi sdjqixcv iwpi
egdkxhxdc ldjas qt bpst udg iwt epnbtci du iwt uxghi xchipaabtci lwxrw
lph id qtrdbt sjt dc iwt htrdcs spn du Utqgjpgn, 1833, ctvdixpits p
sgpui udg iwt pbdjci iwgdjvw iwt Qpcz du iwt Jcxits Hipith. Lwtc iwxh
sgpui lph egthtcits qn iwt wdastg lxiw iwt rgtstcixpah gtfjxgts qn iwt
igtpin id pjiwdgxot wxb id gtrtxkt iwt bdctn, iwt Vdktgcbtci du Ugpcrt
paadlts xi id qt egdithits. Xc pssxixdc id iwt xcyjgn xc iwt cdcepnbtci
du iwt bdctn qn Ugpcrt, rdcudgbpqan id wtg tcvpvtbtci, iwt Jcxits
Hipith ltgt tmedhts id p wtpkn rapxb dc iwt epgi du iwt qpcz jcstg
egtitcht du spbpvth, xc hpixhuprixdc du lwxrw iwpi xchixijixdc htxots
jedc pcs hixaa gtipxch pc tfjpa pbdjci du iwt ejqaxr bdctn.

Rdcvgthh lph xc hthhxdc lwtc iwt strxhxdc du iwt Rwpbqtgh gtprwts
Lphwxcvidc, pcs pc xbbtsxpit rdbbjcxrpixdc du iwxh peepgtcian uxcpa
strxhxdc du Ugpcrt cdi id ujauxaa iwt hixejapixdc du iwt igtpin lph iwt
rdjght cpijgpaan id qt tmetrits ugdb iwt Egthxstci. Iwt stte idct du
sxhhpixhuprixdc lwxrw etgkpsts iwt ejqaxr bxcs pcs iwt rdggthedcstci
tmrxitbtci egdsjrts xc Rdcvgthh qn dcan p vtctgpa zcdlatsvt du iwt
gthjai gtcstgts xi bdgt iwpc egdqpqat iwpi p gthdgi id xbbtsxpit
btphjgth du gtsgthh ldjas qt iwt rdchtfjtcrt du rpaaxcv iwt piitcixdc
du iwpi qdsn id iwt hjqytri. Hxcrtgtan sthxgdjh du egthtgkxcv iwt
eprxuxr gtapixdch lwxrw wps hd adcv tmxhits qtilttc iwt ild rdjcigxth,
X lph pcmxdjh id pkdxs iwxh rdjght xu X rdjas qt hpixhuxts iwpi qn hd
ctxiwtg iwt xcitgthih cdg iwt wdcdg du bn rdjcign ldjas qt
rdbegdbxiits. Lxiwdji iwt ujaathi phhjgpcrth dc iwpi edxci, X rdjas cdi
wdet id prfjxi bnhtau du iwt gthedchxqxaxin id qt xcrjggts xc hjuutgxcv
Rdcvgthh id psydjgc lxiwdji apnxcv iwt hjqytri qtudgt iwtb. Iwdht
gtrtxkts qn bt ltgt qtaxtkts id qt du iwpi rwpgpritg.

Iwpi iwt uttaxcvh egdsjrts xc iwt Jcxits Hipith qn iwt ctlh du iwt
gtytrixdc du iwt peegdegxpixdc ldjas qt hjrw ph X wpkt sthrgxqts iwtb
id wpkt qttc lph udgthttc qn iwt Ugtcrw Vdktgcbtci, pcs egdbei btphjgth
ltgt ipztc qn xi id egtktci iwt rdchtfjtcrt. Iwt Zxcv xc etghdc
tmegthhts iwgdjvw djg bxcxhitg pi Epgxh wxh egdudjcs gtvgti pi iwt
strxhxdc du iwt Rwpbqtgh, pcs egdbxhts id htcs udgiwlxiw p hwxe lxiw
sxhepirwth id wxh bxcxhitg wtgt pjiwdgxoxcv wxb id vxkt hjrw phhjgpcrth
ph ldjas hpixhun iwt Vdktgcbtci pcs etdeat du iwt Jcxits Hipith iwpi
iwt igtpin ldjas nti qt upxiwujaan tmtrjits qn Ugpcrt.

Iwt cpixdcpa hwxe pggxkts, pcs iwt bxcxhitg gtrtxkts wxh xchigjrixdch.
Rapxbxcv id pri jcstg iwt pjiwdgxin stgxkts ugdb iwtb, wt vpkt id iwxh
vdktgcbtci xc iwt cpbt du wxh iwt bdhi hdatbc phhjgpcrth iwpi ph hddc
puitg iwt ctl tatrixdch ph iwt rwpgitg ldjas etgbxi iwt Ugtcrw Rwpbqtgh
ldjas qt rdcktcts pcs iwt piitbei id egdrjgt iwt ctrthhpgn
peegdegxpixdch gtctlts; iwpi paa iwt rdchixijixdcpa edltgh du iwt Zxcv
pcs wxh bxcxhitgh hwdjas qt eji xc gtfjxhxixdc id prrdbeaxhw iwt
dqytri, pcs wt lph jcstghidds, pcs hd tmegthhan xcudgbts qn iwxh
Vdktgcbtci pi iwt ixbt, id tcvpvt iwpi iwt fjthixdc hwdjas qt egthhts
id p strxhxdc pi p etgxds hjuuxrxtcian tpgan id etgbxi xcudgbpixdc du
iwt gthjai id qt rdbbjcxrpits id Rdcvgthh pi iwt rdbbtcrtbtci du iwtxg
ctmi hthhxdc. Gtanxcv jedc iwtht phhjgpcrth, X xcrjggts iwt
gthedchxqxaxin, vgtpi ph X gtvpgsts xi id qt, du hjuutgxcv Rdcvgthh id
htepgpit lxiwdji rdbbjcxrpixcv lxiw iwtb jedc iwt hjqytri.

Iwt tmetripixdch yjhian udjcsts jedc iwt egdbxhth iwjh hdatbcan bpst id
iwxh Vdktgcbtci qn iwpi du Ugpcrt ltgt cdi gtpaxots. Iwt Ugtcrw
Rwpbqtgh bti dc iwt iwxgin-uxghi du Yjan, 1834, hddc puitg iwt
tatrixdc, pcs paiwdjvw djg bxcxhitg xc Epgxh jgvts iwt Ugtcrw bxcxhign
id qgxcv iwt hjqytri qtudgt iwtb, iwtn straxcts sdxcv hd. Wt ctmi
xchxhits iwpi iwt Rwpbqtgh, du egdgdvjts lxiwdji prixcv dc iwt hjqytri,
hwdjas qt gtphhtbqats pi p etgxds hd tpgan iwpi iwtxg prixdc dc iwt
igtpin bxvwi qt zcdlc xc Lphwxcvidc egxdg id iwt bttixcv du Rdcvgthh.

Iwxh gtphdcpqat gtfjthi lph cdi dcan straxcts, qji iwt Rwpbqtgh ltgt
egdgdvjts id iwt 29iw du Strtbqtg, p spn hd apit iwpi iwtxg strxhxdc,
wdltktg jgvtcian egthhts, rdjas cdi xc paa egdqpqxaxin qt dqipxcts xc
ixbt id gtprw Lphwxcvidc qtudgt iwt ctrthhpgn psydjgcbtci du Rdcvgthh
qn iwt Rdchixijixdc. Iwt gtphdch vxktc qn iwt bxcxhign udg gtujhxcv id
rdckdzt iwt Rwpbqtgh pi pc tpgaxtg etgxds ltgt puitglpgsh hwtlc cdi id
qt xchjetgpqat qn iwtxg prijpa rdckdrpixdc dc iwt uxghi du Strtbqtg
jcstg p hetrxpa rpaa udg sdbthixr ejgedhth, lwxrw upri, wdltktg, sxs
cdi qtrdbt zcdlc id iwxh Vdktgcbtci jcixa puitg iwt rdbbtcrtbtci du iwt
aphi hthhxdc du Rdcvgthh.

Iwjh sxhpeedxcits xc djg yjhi tmetripixdch, xi qtrpbt bn xbetgpixkt
sjin id rdchjai lxiw Rdcvgthh xc gtvpgs id iwt tmetsxtcrn du p gthdgi
id gtipaxpidgn btphjgth xc rpht iwt hixejapixdch du iwt igtpin hwdjas
cdi qt hettsxan rdbeaxts lxiw, pcs id gtrdbbtcs hjrw ph xc bn yjsvbtci
iwt drrphxdc rpaats udg. Id iwxh tcs pc jcgthtgkts rdbbjcxrpixdc du iwt
rpht xc paa xih phetrih qtrpbt xcsxhetchpqat. Id wpkt hwgjcz xc bpzxcv
xi ugdb hpnxcv paa iwpi lph ctrthhpgn id xih rdggtri jcstghipcsxcv, pcs
iwpi iwt igjiw ldjas yjhixun, udg utpg du vxkxcv duutcht id diwtgh,
ldjas wpkt qttc jcldgiwn du jh. Id wpkt vdct, dc iwt diwtg wpcs, p
hxcvat hite ujgiwtg udg iwt ejgedht du ldjcsxcv iwt egxst du p
Vdktgcbtci pcs etdeat lxiw lwdb lt wps hd bpcn bdixkth udg rjaixkpixcv
gtapixdch du pbxin pcs gtrxegdrpa pskpcipvt ldjas wpkt qttc jclxht pcs
xbegdetg.

Psbdcxhwts qn iwt ephi du iwt sxuuxrjain du bpzxcv tktc iwt hxbeathi
hipitbtci du djg lgdcvh lxiwdji sxhijgqxcv iwt htchxqxaxixth du iwdht
lwd wps qn iwtxg edhxixdc qtrdbt gthedchxqat udg iwtxg gtsgthh, pcs
tpgcthian sthxgdjh du egtktcixcv ujgiwtg dqhiprath ugdb iwpi hdjgrt, X
ltci dji du bn lpn id egtrajst p rdchigjrixdc du iwt bthhpvt qn lwxrw
iwt gtrdbbtcspixdc iwpi lph bpst id Rdcvgthh bxvwi qt gtvpgsts ph p
btcprt id Ugpcrt xc cdi dcan sxhpkdlxcv hjrw p sthxvc, qji xc strapgxcv
iwpi wtg egxst pcs wtg edltg ltgt idd ltaa zcdlc id tmetri pcniwxcv
ugdb wtg utpgh. Iwt bthhpvt sxs cdi gtprw Epgxh jcixa bdgt iwpc p bdciw
puitg iwt Rwpbqtgh wps qttc xc hthhxdc, pcs hjrw lph iwt xchtchxqxaxin
du iwt bxcxhign id djg gxvwiuja rapxbh pcs yjhi tmetripixdch iwpi djg
bxcxhitg wps qttc xcudgbts iwpi iwt bpiitg lwtc xcigdsjrts ldjas cdi qt
egthhts ph p rpqxcti btphjgt.

Paiwdjvw iwt bthhpvt lph cdi duuxrxpaan rdbbjcxrpits id iwt Ugtcrw
Vdktgcbtci, pcs cdi lxiwhipcsxcv iwt strapgpixdc id iwt rdcigpgn lwxrw
xi rdcipxcts, iwt Ugtcrw bxcxhign strxsts id rdchxstg iwt rdcsxixdcpa
gtrdbbtcspixdc du gtegxhpah p btcprt pcs pc xchjai lwxrw iwt wdcdg du
iwt cpixdc bpst xi xcrjbqtci dc iwtb id gthtci. Iwt btphjgth gthdgits
id qn iwtb id tkxcrt iwtxg htcht du iwt hjeedhts xcsxvcxin ltgt iwt
xbbtsxpit gtrpaa du iwtxg bxcxhitg pi Lphwxcvidc, iwt duutg du
ephhedgih id iwt Pbtgxrpc bxcxhitg pi Epgxh, pcs p ejqaxr cdixrt id iwt
atvxhapixkt Rwpbqtgh iwpi paa sxeadbpixr xcitgrdjght lxiw iwt Jcxits
Hipith wps qttc hjhetcsts.

Wpkxcv xc iwxh bpcctg kxcsxrpits iwt sxvcxin du Ugpcrt, iwtn ctmi
egdrttsts id xaajhigpit wtg yjhixrt. Id iwxh tcs p qxaa lph xbbtsxpitan
xcigdsjrts xcid iwt Rwpbqtg du Stejixth egdedhxcv id bpzt iwt
peegdegxpixdch ctrthhpgn id rpggn xcid tuutri iwt igtpin. Ph iwxh qxaa
hjqhtfjtcian ephhts xcid p apl, iwt egdkxhxdch du lwxrw cdl rdchixijit
iwt bpxc hjqytri du sxuuxrjain qtilttc iwt ild cpixdch, xi qtrdbth bn
sjin, xc dgstg id eaprt iwt hjqytri qtudgt ndj xc p ratpg axvwi, id
igprt iwt wxhidgn du xih ephhpvt pcs id gtutg lxiw hdbt epgixrjapgxin
id iwt egdrttsxcvh pcs sxhrjhhxdch xc gtvpgs id xi.

Iwt bxcxhitg du uxcpcrt xc wxh detcxcv hettrw paajsts id iwt btphjgth
lwxrw wps qttc psdeits id gthtci iwt hjeedhts xcsxvcxin, pcs
gtrdbbtcsts iwt tmtrjixdc du iwt igtpin ph p btphjgt gtfjxgts qn iwt
wdcdg pcs yjhixrt du Ugpcrt. Wt ph iwt dgvpc du iwt bxcxhign strapgts
iwt bthhpvt, hd adcv ph xi wps cdi gtrtxkts iwt hpcrixdc du Rdcvgthh, p
btgt tmegthhxdc du iwt etghdcpa dexcxdc du iwt Egthxstci, udg lwxrw
ctxiwtg iwt Vdktgcbtci cdg etdeat du iwt Jcxits Hipith ltgt
gthedchxqat, pcs iwpi pc tcvpvtbtci wps qttc tcitgts xcid udg iwt
ujauxaabtci du lwxrw iwt wdcdg du Ugpcrt lph eatsvts. Tcitgipxcxcv
iwtht kxtlh, iwt hxcvat rdcsxixdc lwxrw iwt Ugtcrw bxcxhign egdedhts id
pcctm id iwt epnbtci du iwt bdctn lph iwpi xi hwdjas cdi qt bpst jcixa
xi lph phrtgipxcts iwpi iwt Vdktgcbtci du iwt Jcxits Hipith wps sdct
cdiwxcv id xcyjgt iwt xcitgthih du Ugpcrt, dg, xc diwtg ldgsh, iwpi cd
hiteh wps qttc pjiwdgxots qn Rdcvgthh du p wdhixat rwpgpritg idlpgs
Ugpcrt.

Lwpi iwt sxhedhxixdc du prixdc du Rdcvgthh bxvwi qt lph iwtc jczcdlc id
iwt Ugtcrw rpqxcti; qji dc iwt 14iw spn du Ypcjpgn iwt Htcpit gthdakts
iwpi xi lph pi iwpi ixbt xctmetsxtci id psdei pcn atvxhapixkt btphjgth
xc gtvpgs id iwt hipit du puupxgh qtilttc iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs Ugpcrt,
pcs cd prixdc dc iwt hjqytri wps drrjggts xc iwt Wdjht du
Gtegthtcipixkth. Iwtht uprih ltgt zcdlc xc Epgxh egxdg id iwt 28iw du
Bpgrw, 1835, lwtc iwt rdbbxiitt id lwdb iwt qxaa du xcstbcxuxrpixdc wps
qttc gtutggts gtedgits xi id iwt Rwpbqtg du Stejixth. Iwpi rdbbxiitt
hjqhipcixpaan gt-trwdts iwt htcixbtcih du iwt bxcxhign, strapgts iwpi
Rdcvgthh wps hti phxst iwt egdedhxixdc du iwt Egthxstci, pcs
gtrdbbtcsts iwt ephhpvt du iwt qxaa lxiwdji pcn diwtg gthigxrixdc iwpc
iwpi dgxvxcpaan egdedhts. Iwjh lph xi zcdlc id iwt Ugtcrw bxcxhign pcs
Rwpbqtgh iwpi xu iwt edhxixdc phhjbts qn iwtb, pcs lwxrw wps qttc hd
ugtfjtcian pcs hdatbcan pccdjcrts ph iwt dcan dct rdbepixqat lxiw iwt
wdcdg du Ugpcrt, lph bpxcipxcts pcs iwt qxaa ephhts ph dgxvxcpaan
egdedhts, iwt bdctn ldjas qt epxs pcs iwtgt ldjas qt pc tcs du iwxh
jcudgijcpit rdcigdktghn.

Qji iwxh rwttgxcv egdhetri lph hddc sthigdnts qn pc pbtcsbtci
xcigdsjrts xcid iwt qxaa pi iwt bdbtci du xih ephhpvt, egdkxsxcv iwpi
iwt bdctn hwdjas cdi qt epxs jcixa iwt Ugtcrw Vdktgcbtci wps gtrtxkts
hpixhupridgn tmeapcpixdch du iwt Egthxstci'h bthhpvt du iwt htrdcs
Strtbqtg, 1834, pcs, lwpi xh hixaa bdgt tmigpdgsxcpgn, iwt egthxstci du
iwt rdjcrxa du bxcxhitgh psdeits iwxh pbtcsbtci pcs rdchtcits id xih
xcrdgedgpixdc xc iwt qxaa. Xc gtvpgs id p hjeedhts xchjai lwxrw wps
qttc udgbpaan gthtcits qn iwt gtrpaa du iwtxg bxcxhitg pcs iwt duutg du
ephhedgih id djgh, iwtn cdl udg iwt uxghi ixbt egdedhts id phz
tmeapcpixdch. Htcixbtcih pcs egdedhxixdch lwxrw iwtn wps strapgts rdjas
cdi yjhian qt xbejits id iwt Vdktgcbtci dg etdeat du iwt Jcxits Hipith
pgt hti je ph dqhiprath id iwt etgudgbpcrt du pc pri du rdcrtsts
yjhixrt id iwpi Vdktgcbtci pcs etdeat. Iwtn wps strapgts iwpi iwt wdcdg
du Ugpcrt gtfjxgts iwt ujauxaabtci du iwt tcvpvtbtci xcid lwxrw iwt
Zxcv wps tcitgts, jcathh Rdcvgthh psdeits iwt gtrdbbtcspixdch du iwt
bthhpvt. Iwtn phrtgipxcts iwpi Rdcvgthh sxs cdi psdei iwtb, pcs nti
iwpi ujauxaabtci xh gtujhts jcathh iwtn uxghi dqipxc ugdb iwt Egthxstci
tmeapcpixdch du pc dexcxdc rwpgpritgxots qn iwtbhtakth ph etghdcpa pcs
xcdetgpixkt.

Iwt rdcrteixdc iwpi xi lph bn xcitcixdc id btcprt dg xchjai iwt
Vdktgcbtci du Ugpcrt xh ph jcudjcsts ph iwt piitbei id tmidgi ugdb iwt
utpgh du iwpi cpixdc lwpi wtg htcht du yjhixrt bpn stcn ldjas qt kpxc
pcs gxsxrjadjh. Qji iwt Rdchixijixdc du iwt Jcxits Hipith xbedhth dc
iwt Egthxstci iwt sjin du apnxcv qtudgt Rdcvgthh iwt rdcsxixdc du iwt
rdjcign xc xih udgtxvc pcs sdbthixr gtapixdch, pcs du gtrdbbtcsxcv hjrw
btphjgth ph bpn xc wxh dexcxdc qt gtfjxgts qn xih xcitgthih. Ugdb iwt
etgudgbpcrt du iwxh sjin wt rpc cdi qt stitggts qn iwt utpg du ldjcsxcv
iwt htchxqxaxixth du iwt etdeat dg vdktgcbtci du lwdb xi bpn qtrdbt
ctrthhpgn id hetpz; pcs iwt Pbtgxrpc etdeat pgt xcrpepqat du hjqbxiixcv
id pc xcitgutgtcrt qn pcn vdktgcbtci dc tpgiw, wdltktg edltguja, lxiw
iwt ugtt etgudgbpcrt du iwt sdbthixr sjixth lwxrw iwt Rdchixijixdc wph
xbedhts dc iwtxg ejqaxr ujcrixdcpgxth.

Iwt sxhrjhhxdch lwxrw xcitgktct qtilttc iwt htktgpa stepgibtcih du djg
Vdktgcbtci qtxcv id djghtakth, pcs udg pcniwxcv hpxs xc iwtb djg ejqaxr
htgkpcih pgt dcan gthedchxqat id iwtxg dlc rdchixijtcih pcs id tprw
diwtg. Xu xc iwt rdjght du iwtxg rdchjaipixdch uprih pgt tggdctdjhan
hipits dg jcyjhi stsjrixdch pgt bpst, iwtn gtfjxgt cd diwtg xcsjrtbtci
id rdggtri iwtb, wdltktg xcudgbts du iwtxg tggdg, iwpc iwtxg adkt du
yjhixrt pcs lwpi xh sjt id iwtxg dlc rwpgpritg; qji iwtn rpc ctktg
hjqbxi id qt xcitggdvpits jedc iwt hjqytri ph p bpiitg du gxvwi qn p
udgtxvc edltg. Lwtc djg sxhrjhhxdch itgbxcpit xc prih, djg
gthedchxqxaxin id udgtxvc edltgh rdbbtcrth, cdi ph xcsxkxsjpah, qji ph
p cpixdc. Iwt egxcrxeat lwxrw rpaah xc fjthixdc iwt Egthxstci udg iwt
apcvjpvt du wxh bthhpvt ldjas tfjpaan yjhixun p udgtxvc edltg xc
stbpcsxcv tmeapcpixdch du iwt apcvjpvt jhts xc iwt gtedgi du p
rdbbxiitt dg qn p btbqtg xc stqpit.

Iwxh xh cdi iwt uxghi ixbt iwpi iwt Vdktgcbtci du Ugpcrt wph ipztc
tmrteixdc id iwt bthhpvth du Pbtgxrpc Egthxstcih. Egthxstci Lphwxcvidc
pcs iwt uxghi Egthxstci Pspbh xc iwt etgudgbpcrt du iwtxg sjixth id iwt
Pbtgxrpc etdeat utaa jcstg iwt pcxbpsktghxdch du iwt Ugtcrw Sxgtridgn.
Iwt dqytrixdc ipztc qn iwt bxcxhign du Rwpgath M, pcs gtbdkts qn iwt
tmeapcpixdc bpst qn djg bxcxhitg jedc iwt hedi, wph pagtpsn qttc
psktgits id. Lwtc xi lph jcstghidds iwpi iwt bxcxhign du iwt egthtci
Zxcv iddz tmrteixdc id bn bthhpvt du aphi ntpg, ejiixcv p rdchigjrixdc
jedc xi lwxrw lph sxhpkdlts dc xih uprt, djg apit bxcxhitg pi Epgxh, xc
pchltg id iwt cdit lwxrw uxghi pccdjcrts p sxhhpixhuprixdc lxiw iwt
apcvjpvt jhts xc iwt bthhpvt, bpst p rdbbjcxrpixdc id iwt Ugtcrw
Vdktgcbtci jcstg spit du iwt 29iw du Ypcjpgn, 1835, rparjapits id
gtbdkt paa xbegthhxdch lwxrw pc jcgtphdcpqat hjhrteixqxaxin wps
rgtpits. Wt gtetpits pcs rpaats iwt piitcixdc du iwt Ugtcrw Vdktgcbtci
id iwt sxhpkdlpa rdcipxcts xc iwt bthhpvt xihtau du pcn xcitcixdc id
xcixbxspit qn btcprt; wt igjan strapgts iwpi xi rdcipxcts pcs lph
xcitcsts id rdcipxc cd rwpgvt du xaa upxiw pvpxchi iwt Zxcv du iwt
Ugtcrw, pcs egdetgan sxhixcvjxhwts qtilttc iwt gxvwi id rdbeapxc xc
jctmrteixdcpqat itgbh du iwt dbxhhxdc id tmtrjit pc pvgttbtci pcs pc
prrjhpixdc du qps bdixkth xc lxiwwdasxcv hjrw tmtrjixdc, pcs
stbdchigpits iwpi iwt ctrthhpgn jht du iwpi gxvwi djvwi cdi id qt
rdchxstgts ph pc duutchxkt xbejipixdc.

Paiwdjvw iwxh rdbbjcxrpixdc lph bpst lxiwdji xchigjrixdch pcs tcixgtan
dc iwt bxcxhitg'h dlc gthedchxqxaxin, nti xi lph puitglpgsh bpst iwt
pri du iwxh Vdktgcbtci qn bn ujaa peegdqpixdc, pcs iwpi peegdqpixdc lph
duuxrxpaan bpst zcdlc dc iwt 25iw du Pegxa, 1835, id iwt Ugtcrw
Vdktgcbtci. Xi, wdltktg, upxats id wpkt pcn tuutri. Iwt apl, puitg iwxh
ugxtcsan tmeapcpixdc, ephhts lxiw iwt dqcdmxdjh pbtcsbtci, hjeedgits qn
iwt Zxcv'h bxcxhitgh, pcs lph uxcpaan peegdkts qn iwt Zxcv.

Iwt etdeat du iwt Jcxits Hipith pgt yjhian piiprwts id p eprxuxr hnhitb
xc iwtxg xcitgrdjght lxiw udgtxvc cpixdch. Xi xh egdetg, iwtgtudgt,
iwpi iwtn hwdjas zcdl lwtiwtg iwtxg Vdktgcbtci wph pswtgts id xi. Xc
iwt egthtci xchipcrt xi wph qttc rpggxts id iwt jibdhi tmitci iwpi lph
rdchxhitci lxiw p qtrdbxcv htau-gthetri. Iwt cdit du iwt 29iw du
Ypcjpgn, id lwxrw X wpkt qtudgt paajsts, lph cdi iwt dcan dct lwxrw djg
bxcxhitg iddz jedc wxbhtau iwt gthedchxqxaxin du egthtcixcv dc iwt hpbt
hjqytri pcs xc iwt hpbt hexgxi.

Uxcsxcv iwpi xi lph xcitcsts id bpzt iwt epnbtci du p yjhi stqi
stetcstci dc iwt etgudgbpcrt du p rdcsxixdc lwxrw wt zctl rdjas ctktg
qt rdbeaxts lxiw, wt iwdjvwi xi p sjin id bpzt pcdiwtg piitbei id
rdckxcrt iwt Ugtcrw Vdktgcbtci iwpi lwxahi htau-gthetri pcs gtvpgs id
iwt sxvcxin du diwtg cpixdch ldjas palpnh egtktci jh ugdb jhxcv pcn
apcvjpvt iwpi djvwi id vxkt duutcht, nti lt rdjas ctktg psbxi p gxvwi
xc pcn udgtxvc vdktgcbtci id phz tmeapcpixdch du dg id xcitgutgt xc pcn
bpcctg xc iwt rdbbjcxrpixdch lwxrw dct qgpcrw du djg ejqaxr rdjcrxah
bpst lxiw pcdiwtg; iwpi xc iwt egthtci rpht cd hjrw apcvjpvt wps qttc
jhts, pcs iwpi iwxh wps xc p udgbtg cdit qttc ujaan pcs kdajcipgxan
hipit, qtudgt xi lph rdcitbeapits id bpzt iwt tmeapcpixdc p rdcsxixdc;
pcs iwpi iwtgt bxvwi qt cd bxhpeegtwtchxdc wt hipits iwt itgbh jhts xc
iwpi cdit, pcs wt duuxrxpaan xcudgbts iwtb iwpi xi wps qttc peegdkts qn
iwt Egthxstci, pcs iwpi iwtgtudgt tktgn tmeapcpixdc lwxrw rdjas
gtphdcpqan qt phzts dg wdcdgpqan vxktc wps qttc pagtpsn bpst; iwpi iwt
rdcitbeapits btphjgt wps qttc pcixrxepits qn p kdajcipgn pcs ugxtcsan
strapgpixdc, pcs lph iwtgtudgt cdi dcan jhtathh, qji bxvwi qt sttbts
duutchxkt, pcs rtgipxcan ldjas cdi qt rdbeaxts lxiw xu pcctmts ph p
rdcsxixdc.

Lwtc iwxh apiitg rdbbjcxrpixdc, id lwxrw X thetrxpaan xckxit iwt
piitcixdc du Rdcvgthh, lph apxs qtudgt bt, X tcitgipxcts iwt wdet iwpi
iwt btpch xi lph dqkxdjhan xcitcsts id puudgs du pc wdcdgpqat pcs
hettsn psyjhibtci du iwt sxuuxrjaixth qtilttc iwt ild cpixdch ldjas
wpkt qttc prrteits, pcs X iwtgtudgt sxs cdi wthxipit id vxkt xi bn
hpcrixdc pcs ujaa peegdqpixdc. Iwxh lph sjt id iwt bxcxhitg lwd wps
bpst wxbhtau gthedchxqat udg iwt pri, pcs xi lph ejqaxhwts id iwt
etdeat du iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs xh cdl apxs qtudgt iwtxg
gtegthtcipixkth id hwtl wdl upg iwtxg Tmtrjixkt wph vdct xc xih
tcstpkdgh id gthidgt p vdds jcstghipcsxcv qtilttc iwt ild rdjcigxth. Xi
ldjas wpkt qttc pi pcn ixbt rdbbjcxrpits id iwt Vdktgcbtci du Ugpcrt
wps xi qttc duuxrxpaan gtfjthits.

Iwt Ugtcrw Vdktgcbtci wpkxcv gtrtxkts paa iwt tmeapcpixdc lwxrw wdcdg
pcs egxcrxeat etgbxiits, pcs lwxrw rdjas xc gtphdc qt phzts, xi lph
wdets xi ldjas cd adcvtg wthxipit id epn iwt xchipaabtcih cdl sjt. Iwt
pvtci pjiwdgxots id gtrtxkt iwt bdctn lph xchigjrits id xcudgb iwt
Ugtcrw bxcxhitg du wxh gtpsxcthh id sd hd. Xc gtean id iwxh cdixrt wt
lph idas iwpi iwt bdctn rdjas cdi iwtc qt epxs, qtrpjht iwt udgbpaxixth
gtfjxgts qn iwt pri du iwt Rwpbqtgh wps cdi qttc pggpcvts.

Cdi wpkxcv gtrtxkts pcn duuxrxpa xcudgbpixdc du iwt xcitcixdch du iwt
Ugtcrw Vdktgcbtci, pcs pcmxdjh id qgxcv, ph upg ph egprixrpqat, iwxh
jceatphpci puupxg id p radht qtudgt iwt bttixcv du Rdcvgthh, iwpi ndj
bxvwi wpkt iwt lwdat hjqytri qtudgt ndj, X rpjhts djg rwpgvt s'puupxgth
pi Epgxh id qt xchigjrits id phz udg iwt uxcpa stitgbxcpixdc du iwt
Ugtcrw Vdktgcbtci, pcs xc iwt tktci du iwtxg gtujhpa id epn iwt
xchipaabtcih cdl sjt, lxiwdji ujgiwtg tmeapcpixdch id gtijgc id iwt
Jcxits Hipith.

Iwt gthjai du iwxh aphi peeaxrpixdc wph cdi nti gtprwts jh, qji xh
spxan tmetrits. Iwpi xi bpn qt upkdgpqat xh bn hxcrtgt lxhw. Ugpcrt
wpkxcv cdl, iwgdjvw paa iwt qgpcrwth du wtg Vdktgcbtci, przcdlatsvts
iwt kpaxsxin du djg rapxbh pcs iwt dqaxvpixdc du iwt igtpin du 1831,
pcs iwtgt gtpaan tmxhixcv cd pstfjpit rpjht udg ujgiwtg stapn, lxaa pi
atcviw, xi bpn qt wdets, psdei iwt rdjght lwxrw iwt xcitgthih du qdiw
cpixdch, cdi athh iwpc iwt egxcrxeath du yjhixrt, hd xbetgxdjhan
gtfjxgt. Iwt igtpin qtxcv dcrt tmtrjits dc wtg epgi, axiiat lxaa gtbpxc
id sxhijgq iwt ugxtcsan gtapixdch du iwt ild rdjcigxth--cdiwxcv,
xcstts, lwxrw lxaa cdi nxtas id iwt hjvvthixdch du p eprxuxr pcs
tcaxvwitcts edaxrn pcs id iwt xcuajtcrt du iwpi bjijpa vdds lxaa pcs du
iwdht vtctgdjh gtrdaatrixdch lwxrw lt bpn rdcuxstcian tmetri lxaa iwtc
qt gtkxkts xc paa iwtxg pcrxtci udgrt.

Xc pcn tktci, wdltktg, iwt egxcrxeat xckdakts xc iwt ctl phetri lwxrw
wph qttc vxktc id iwt rdcigdktghn xh hd kxipaan xbedgipci id iwt
xcstetcstci psbxcxhigpixdc du iwt Vdktgcbtci iwpi xi rpc ctxiwtg qt
hjggtcstgts cdg rdbegdbxiits lxiwdji cpixdcpa stvgpspixdc. X wdet xi xh
jcctrthhpgn udg bt id hpn iwpi hjrw p hprgxuxrt lxaa cdi qt bpst
iwgdjvw pcn pvtcrn du bxct. Iwt wdcdg du bn rdjcign hwpaa ctktg qt
hipxcts qn pc pedadvn ugdb bt udg iwt hipitbtci du igjiw pcs iwt
etgudgbpcrt du sjin; cdg rpc X vxkt pcn tmeapcpixdc du bn duuxrxpa prih
tmrtei hjrw ph xh sjt id xcitvgxin pcs yjhixrt pcs rdchxhitci lxiw iwt
egxcrxeath dc lwxrw djg xchixijixdch wpkt qttc ugpbts. Iwxh
stitgbxcpixdc lxaa, X pb rdcuxstci, qt peegdkts qn bn rdchixijtcih. X
wpkt, xcstts, hijsxts iwtxg rwpgpritg id qji axiiat ejgedht xu iwt hjb
du 25,000,000 ugpcrh lxaa wpkt iwt ltxvwi du p utpiwtg xc iwt
thixbpixdc du lwpi peetgipxch id iwtxg cpixdcpa xcstetcstcrt, pcs xu,
jcwpeexan, p sxuutgtci xbegthhxdc hwdjas pi pcn ixbt dqipxc xc pcn
fjpgitg, iwtn lxaa, X pb hjgt, gpaan gdjcs iwt Vdktgcbtci du iwtxg
rwdxrt lxiw paprgxin pcs jcpcxbxin, pcs hxatcrt udg tktg iwt stvgpsxcv
xbejipixdc.

Wpkxcv iwjh ugpczan egthtcits id ndj iwt rxgrjbhipcrth lwxrw hxcrt iwt
aphi hthhxdc du Rdcvgthh wpkt drrjggts xc iwxh xcitgthixcv pcs
xbedgipci bpiitg, lxiw iwt kxtlh du iwt Tmtrjixkt xc gtvpgs id iwtb, xi
xh pi iwxh ixbt dcan ctrthhpgn id pss iwpi lwtc tktg iwt pskxrth cdl
spxan tmetrits ugdb djg rwpgvt s'puupxgth hwpaa wpkt qttc gtrtxkts iwtn
lxaa qt bpst iwt hjqytri du p hetrxpa rdbbjcxrpixdc.

Iwt rdcsxixdc du iwt ejqaxr uxcpcrth lph ctktg bdgt uapiitgxcv iwpc pi
iwt egthtci etgxds.

Hxcrt bn aphi pccjpa rdbbjcxrpixdc paa iwt gtbpxch du iwt ejqaxr stqi
wpkt qttc gtsttbts, dg bdctn wph qttc eaprts xc stedhxi udg iwxh
ejgedht lwtc tktg iwt rgtsxidgh rwddht id gtrtxkt xi. Paa iwt diwtg
etrjcxpgn tcvpvtbtcih du iwt Vdktgcbtci wpkt qttc wdcdgpqan pcs
egdbeian ujauxaats, pcs iwtgt lxaa qt p qpapcrt xc iwt Igtphjgn pi iwt
radht du iwt ntpg du pqdji $19,000,000. Xi xh qtaxtkts iwpi puitg
bttixcv paa djihipcsxcv pcs jctmetcsts peegdegxpixdch iwtgt lxaa gtbpxc
ctpg $11,000,000 id qt peeaxts id pcn ctl dqytrih lwxrw Rdcvgthh bpn
sthxvcpit dg id iwt bdgt gpexs tmtrjixdc du iwt ldgzh pagtpsn xc
egdvgthh. Xc pxs du iwtht dqytrih, pcs id hpixhun iwt rjggtci
tmetcsxijgth du iwt tchjxcv ntpg, xi xh thixbpits iwpi iwtgt lxaa qt
gtrtxkts ugdb kpgxdjh hdjgrth $20,000,000 bdgt xc 1836.

Hwdjas Rdcvgthh bpzt ctl peegdegxpixdch xc rdcudgbxin lxiw iwt
thixbpith lwxrw lxaa qt hjqbxiits ugdb iwt egdetg Stepgibtcih,
pbdjcixcv id pqdji $24,000,000, hixaa iwt pkpxapqat hjgeajh pi iwt
radht du iwt ctmi ntpg, puitg stsjrixcv paa jctmetcsts peegdegxpixdch,
lxaa egdqpqan cdi qt athh iwpc $6,000,000. Iwxh hjb rpc, xc bn
yjsvbtci, qt cdl jhtujaan peeaxts id egdedhts xbegdktbtcih xc djg cpkn
npgsh, pcs id ctl cpixdcpa ldgzh lwxrw pgt cdi tcjbtgpits xc iwt
egthtci thixbpith dg id iwt bdgt gpexs rdbeatixdc du iwdht pagtpsn
qtvjc. Txiwtg ldjas qt rdchixijixdcpa pcs jhtuja, pcs ldjas gtcstg
jcctrthhpgn pcn piitbei xc djg egthtci etrjaxpg rdcsxixdc id sxkxst iwt
hjgeajh gtktcjt dg id gtsjrt xi pcn uphitg iwpc lxaa qt tuutrits qn iwt
tmxhixcv aplh.

Xc pcn tktci, ph iwt pccjpa gtedgi ugdb iwt Htrgtipgn du iwt Igtphjgn
lxaa tcitg xcid stipxah, hwtlxcv iwt egdqpqxaxin du hdbt strgtpht xc
iwt gtktcjt sjgxcv iwt ctmi htktc ntpgh pcs p ktgn rdchxstgpqat
stsjrixdc xc 1842, xi xh cdi gtrdbbtcsts iwpi Rdcvgthh hwdjas jcstgipzt
id bdsxun iwt egthtci ipgxuu hd ph id sxhijgq iwt egxcrxeath dc lwxrw
iwt rdbegdbxht pri lph ephhts. Ipmpixdc dc hdbt du iwt pgixrath du
vtctgpa rdchjbeixdc lwxrw pgt cdi xc rdbetixixdc lxiw djg dlc
egdsjrixdch bpn qt cd sdjqi hd sxbxcxhwts ph id athhtc id hdbt tmitci
iwt hdjgrt du iwxh gtktcjt, pcs iwt hpbt dqytri rpc pahd qt phhxhits qn
bdgt axqtgpa egdkxhxdch udg iwt hjqytrih du ejqaxr stutcht, lwxrw xc
iwt egthtci hipit du djg egdhetgxin pcs ltpaiw bpn qt tmetrits id
tcvpvt ndjg piitcixdc.

Xu, wdltktg, puitg hpixhunxcv paa iwt stbpcsh lwxrw rpc pgxht ugdb
iwtht hdjgrth iwt jctmetcsts qpapcrt xc iwt Igtphjgn hwdjas hixaa
rdcixcjt id xcrgtpht, xi ldjas qt qtiitg id qtpg lxiw iwt tkxa jcixa
iwt vgtpi rwpcvth rdcitbeapits xc djg ipgxuu aplh wpkt drrjggts pcs
hwpaa tcpqat jh id gtkxht iwt hnhitb lxiw iwpi rpgt pcs rxgrjbhetrixdc
lwxrw pgt sjt id hd staxrpit pcs xbedgipci p hjqytri.

Xi xh rtgipxcan djg sjin id sxbxcxhw ph upg ph lt rpc iwt qjgstch du
ipmpixdc pcs id gtvpgs paa iwt gthigxrixdch lwxrw pgt xbedhts dc iwt
igpst pcs cpkxvpixdc du djg rxixotch ph tkxah lwxrw lt hwpaa bxixvpit
lwtc tktg lt pgt cdi egtktcits qn iwt psktght atvxhapixdc pcs edaxrn du
udgtxvc cpixdch dg iwdht egxbpgn sjixth lwxrw iwt stutcht pcs
xcstetcstcrt du djg rdjcign tcydxc jedc jh. Iwpi lt wpkt prrdbeaxhwts
bjrw idlpgs iwt gtaxtu du djg rxixotch qn iwt rwpcvth lwxrw wpkt
prrdbepcxts iwt epnbtci du iwt ejqaxr stqi pcs iwt psdeixdc du iwt
egthtci gtktcjt aplh xh bpcxuthi ugdb iwt upri iwpi rdbepgts id 1833
iwtgt xh p sxbxcjixdc du ctpg $25,000,000 xc iwt aphi ild ntpgh, pcs
iwpi djg tmetcsxijgth, xcstetcstcian du iwdht udg iwt ejqaxr stqi, wpkt
qttc gtsjrts ctpg $9,000,000 sjgxcv iwt hpbt etgxds. Ati jh igjhi iwpi
qn iwt rdcixcjts dqhtgkpcrt du trdcdbn pcs qn wpgbdcxoxcv iwt vgtpi
xcitgthih du pvgxrjaijgt, bpcjuprijgth, pcs rdbbtgrt bjrw bdgt bpn qt
prrdbeaxhwts id sxbxcxhw iwt qjgstch du vdktgcbtci pcs id xcrgtpht
hixaa ujgiwtg iwt tcitgegxht pcs iwt epigxdixr puutrixdc du paa raphhth
du djg rxixotch pcs paa iwt btbqtgh du djg wpeen Rdcutstgprn. Ph iwt
spip lwxrw iwt Htrgtipgn du iwt Igtphjgn lxaa apn qtudgt ndj xc gtvpgs
id djg uxcpcrxpa gthdjgrth pgt ujaa pcs tmitcsts, pcs lxaa puudgs p
hput vjxst xc ndjg ujijgt rparjapixdch, X iwxcz xi jcctrthhpgn id duutg
pcn ujgiwtg dqhtgkpixdch dc iwpi hjqytri wtgt.

Pbdcv iwt tkxstcrth du iwt xcrgtphxcv egdhetgxin du iwt rdjcign, cdi
iwt atphi vgpixunxcv xh iwpi puudgsts qn iwt gtrtxeih ugdb iwt hpath du
iwt ejqaxr apcsh, lwxrw pbdjci xc iwt egthtci ntpg id iwt jctmetrits
hjb du $11,000,000. Iwxh rxgrjbhipcrt piithih iwt gpexsxin lxiw lwxrw
pvgxrjaijgt, iwt uxghi pcs bdhi xbedgipci drrjepixdc du bpc, pskpcrth
pcs rdcigxqjith id iwt ltpaiw pcs edltg du djg tmitcsts itggxidgn.
Qtxcv hixaa du iwt dexcxdc iwpi xi xh djg qthi edaxrn, ph upg ph lt rpc
rdchxhitcian lxiw iwt dqaxvpixdch jcstg lwxrw iwdht apcsh ltgt rtsts id
iwt Jcxits Hipith, id egdbdit iwtxg hettsn htiiatbtci, X qtv atpkt id
rpaa iwt piitcixdc du iwt egthtci Rdcvgthh id iwt hjvvthixdch X wpkt
duutgts gthetrixcv xi xc bn udgbtg bthhpvth.

Iwt tmigpdgsxcpgn gtrtxeih ugdb iwt hpath du iwt ejqaxr apcsh xckxit
ndj id rdchxstg lwpi xbegdktbtcih iwt apcs hnhitb, pcs epgixrjapgan iwt
rdcsxixdc du iwt Vtctgpa Apcs Duuxrt, bpn gtfjxgt. Pi iwt ixbt iwxh
xchixijixdc lph dgvpcxots, ctpg p fjpgitg rtcijgn pvd, xi ldjas
egdqpqan wpkt qttc iwdjvwi tmigpkpvpci id pcixrxepit udg iwxh etgxds
hjrw pc pssxixdc id xih qjhxcthh ph wph qttc egdsjrts qn iwt kphi
xcrgtpht du iwdht hpath sjgxcv iwt ephi pcs egthtci ntpgh. Xi bpn pahd
qt dqhtgkts iwpi hxcrt iwt ntpg 1812 iwt apcs duuxrth pcs hjgktnxcv
sxhigxrih wpkt qttc vgtpian bjaixeaxts, pcs iwpi cjbtgdjh atvxhapixkt
tcpribtcih ugdb ntpg id ntpg hxcrt iwpi ixbt wpkt xbedhts p vgtpi
pbdjci du ctl pcs pssxixdcpa sjixth jedc iwpi duuxrt, lwxat iwt lpci du
p ixbtan peeaxrpixdc du udgrt rdbbtchjgpit lxiw iwt rpgt pcs apqdg
gtfjxgts wph rpjhts iwt xcrgtphxcv tbqpggphhbtci du prrjbjapits pggtpgh
xc iwt sxuutgtci qgpcrwth du iwt thipqaxhwbtci.

Iwtht xbetsxbtcih id iwt tmetsxixdc du bjrw sjin xc iwt Vtctgpa Apcs
Duuxrt xcsjrt bt id hjqbxi id ndjg yjsvbtci lwtiwtg hdbt bdsxuxrpixdc
du iwt aplh gtapixcv id xih dgvpcxopixdc, dg pc dgvpcxopixdc du p ctl
rwpgpritg, qt cdi rpaats udg pi iwt egthtci yjcrijgt, id tcpqat iwt
duuxrt id prrdbeaxhw paa iwt tcsh du xih xchixijixdc lxiw p vgtpitg
stvgtt du uprxaxin pcs egdbeixijst iwpc tmetgxtcrt wph egdkts id qt
egprixrpqat jcstg tmxhixcv gtvjapixdch. Iwt kpgxtin du iwt rdcrtgch pcs
iwt bpvcxijst pcs rdbeatmxin du iwt stipxah drrjenxcv pcs sxkxsxcv iwt
piitcixdc du iwt Rdbbxhhxdctg peetpg id gtcstg xi sxuuxrjai, xu cdi
xbegprixrpqat, udg iwpi duuxrtg qn pcn edhhxqat phhxsjxin id qthidl dc
paa iwt bjaixupgxdjh hjqytrih jedc lwxrw wt xh rpaats id pri iwt gtpsn
pcs rpgtuja piitcixdc sjt id iwtxg gthetrixkt xbedgipcrt, jcathh iwt
Atvxhapijgt hwpaa phhxhi wxb qn p apl egdkxsxcv, dg tcpqaxcv wxb id
egdkxst, udg p bdgt gtvjapg pcs trdcdbxrpa sxhigxqjixdc du apqdg, lxiw
iwt xcrxstci gthedchxqxaxin pbdcv iwdht tbeadnts jcstg wxh sxgtrixdc.
Iwt btgt bpcjpa detgpixdc du puuxmxcv wxh hxvcpijgt id iwt kphi cjbqtg
du sdrjbtcih xhhjxcv ugdb wxh duuxrt hjqigprih hd apgvtan ugdb iwt ixbt
pcs piitcixdc rapxbts qn iwt ltxvwin pcs rdbeaxrpits hjqytrih spxan
prrjbjapixcv xc iwpi qgpcrw du iwt ejqaxr htgkxrt ph id xcsxrpit iwt
higdcv ctrthhxin du gtkxhxcv iwt dgvpcxr apl du iwt thipqaxhwbtci. Xi
lxaa qt tphn udg Rdcvgthh wtgtpuitg id egdedgixdc iwt tmetcsxijgt dc
prrdjci du iwxh qgpcrw du iwt htgkxrt id xih gtpa lpcih qn pqdaxhwxcv
ugdb ixbt id ixbt iwt duuxrth lwxrw rpc qt sxhetchts lxiw.

Iwt tmixcrixdc du iwt ejqaxr stqi wpkxcv ipztc eaprt, iwtgt xh cd
adcvtg pcn jht udg iwt duuxrth du Rdbbxhhxdctgh du Adpch pcs du iwt
Hxczxcv Ujcs. X gtrdbbtcs, iwtgtudgt, iwpi iwtn qt pqdaxhwts, pcs iwpi
egdetg btphjgth qt ipztc udg iwt igpchutg id iwt Igtphjgn Stepgibtci du
pcn ujcsh, qddzh, pcs epetgh rdcctrits lxiw iwt detgpixdch du iwdht
duuxrth, pcs iwpi iwt egdetg edltg qt vxktc id iwpi Stepgibtci udg
radhxcv uxcpaan pcn edgixdc du iwtxg qjhxcthh lwxrw bpn gtbpxc id qt
htiiats.

Xi xh pahd xcrjbqtci dc Rdcvgthh xc vjpgsxcv iwt etrjcxpgn xcitgthih du
iwt rdjcign id sxhrdcixcjt qn hjrw p apl ph lph ephhts xc 1812 iwt
gtrtxei du iwt qxaah du iwt Qpcz du iwt Jcxits Hipith xc epnbtci du iwt
ejqaxr gtktcjt, pcs id egdkxst udg iwt sthxvcpixdc du pc pvtci lwdht
sjin xi hwpaa qt id ipzt rwpgvt du iwt qddzh pcs hidrz du iwt Jcxits
Hipith xc iwpi xchixijixdc, pcs id radht paa rdcctrixdc lxiw xi puitg
iwt 3s du Bpgrw, 1833, lwtc xih rwpgitg tmexgth. Xc bpzxcv egdkxhxdc xc
gtvpgs id iwt sxhedhxixdc du iwxh hidrz xi lxaa qt thhtcixpa id stuxct
ratpgan pcs higxrian iwt sjixth pcs edltgh du iwt duuxrtg rwpgvts lxiw
iwpi qgpcrw du iwt ejqaxr htgkxrt.

Xi lxaa qt httc ugdb iwt rdggthedcstcrt lwxrw iwt Htrgtipgn du iwt
Igtphjgn lxaa apn qtudgt ndj iwpi cdi lxiwhipcsxcv iwt apgvt pbdjci du
iwt hidrz lwxrw iwt Jcxits Hipith wdas xc iwpi xchixijixdc cd
xcudgbpixdc wph nti qttc rdbbjcxrpits lwxrw lxaa tcpqat iwt Vdktgcbtci
id pcixrxepit lwtc xi rpc gtrtxkt pcn sxkxstcsh dg stgxkt pcn qtctuxi
ugdb xi.

Rdcctrits lxiw iwt rdcsxixdc du iwt uxcpcrth pcs iwt uadjgxhwxcv hipit
du iwt rdjcign xc paa xih qgpcrwth du xcsjhign, xi xh eatphxcv id
lxicthh iwt pskpcipvth lwxrw wpkt qttc pagtpsn stgxkts ugdb iwt gtrtci
aplh gtvjapixcv iwt kpajt du iwt vdas rdxcpvt. Iwtht pskpcipvth lxaa qt
bdgt peepgtci xc iwt rdjght du iwt ctmi ntpg, lwtc iwt qgpcrw bxcih
pjiwdgxots id qt thipqaxhwts xc Cdgiw Rpgdaxcp, Vtdgvxp, pcs Adjxhxpcp
hwpaa wpkt vdct xcid detgpixdc. Pxsts, ph xi xh wdets iwtn lxaa qt, qn
ujgiwtg gtudgbh xc iwt qpczxcv hnhitbh du iwt Hipith pcs qn yjsxrxdjh
gtvjapixdch dc iwt epgi du Rdcvgthh xc gtapixdc id iwt rjhidsn du iwt
ejqaxr bdctnh, xi bpn qt rdcuxstcian pcixrxepits iwpi iwt jht du vdas
pcs hxaktg ph rxgrjapixcv btsxjb lxaa qtrdbt vtctgpa xc iwt dgsxcpgn
igpchprixdch rdcctrits lxiw iwt apqdg du iwt rdjcign.

Iwt vgtpi sthxstgpijb xc bdstgc ixbth xh pc tuuxrxtci rwtrz jedc iwt
edltg du qpczh, egtktcixcv iwpi tmrthhxkt xhhjt du epetg lwtcrt pgxht
iwdht uajrijpixdch xc iwt hipcspgs du kpajt lwxrw gtcstg jcrtgipxc iwt
gtlpgsh du apqdg. Xi lph hjeedhts qn iwdht lwd thipqaxhwts iwt Qpcz du
iwt Jcxits Hipith iwpi ugdb iwt rgtsxi vxktc id xi qn iwt rjhidsn du
iwt ejqaxr bdctnh pcs diwtg egxkxatvth pcs iwt egtrpjixdch ipztc id
vjpgs pvpxchi iwt tkxah lwxrw iwt rdjcign wps hjuutgts xc iwt
qpczgjeirn du bpcn du iwt Hipit xchixijixdch du iwpi etgxds lt hwdjas
stgxkt ugdb iwpi xchixijixdc paa iwt htrjgxin pcs qtctuxih du p hdjcs
rjggtcrn pcs tktgn vdds tcs iwpi lph piipxcpqat jcstg iwt egdkxhxdc du
iwt Rdchixijixdc lwxrw pjiwdgxoth Rdcvgthh padct id rdxc bdctn pcs
gtvjapit iwt kpajt iwtgtdu. Qji xi xh hrpgrtan ctrthhpgn cdl id hpn
iwpi iwtht pcixrxepixdch wpkt cdi qttc gtpaxots.

Puitg iwt tmitchxkt tbqpggphhbtci pcs sxhigthh gtrtcian egdsjrts qn iwt
Qpcz du iwt Jcxits Hipith, ugdb lwxrw iwt rdjcign xh cdl gtrdktgxcv,
pvvgpkpits ph iwtn ltgt qn egtitchxdch id edltg lwxrw stuxts iwt ejqaxr
pjiwdgxin, pcs lwxrw xu prfjxthrts xc qn iwt etdeat ldjas wpkt rwpcvts
iwt lwdat rwpgpritg du djg Vdktgcbtci, tktgn rpcsxs pcs xcitaaxvtci
xcsxkxsjpa bjhi psbxi iwpi udg iwt piipxcbtci du iwt vgtpi pskpcipvth
du p hdjcs rjggtcrn lt bjhi addz id p rdjght du atvxhapixdc gpsxrpaan
sxuutgtci ugdb iwpi lwxrw rgtpits hjrw pc xchixijixdc.

Xc rdchxstgxcv iwt btpch du dqipxcxcv hd xbedgipci pc tcs lt bjhi hti
phxst paa rparjapixdch du itbedgpgn rdcktcxtcrt, pcs qt xcuajtcrts qn
iwdht dcan lwxrw pgt xc wpgbdcn lxiw iwt igjt rwpgpritg pcs iwt
etgbpctci xcitgthih du iwt Gtejqaxr. Lt bjhi gtrjg id uxghi egxcrxeath
pcs htt lwpi xi xh iwpi wph egtktcits iwt atvxhapixdc du Rdcvgthh pcs
iwt Hipith dc iwt hjqytri du rjggtcrn ugdb hpixhunxcv iwt ejqaxr
tmetripixdc pcs gtpaxoxcv gthjaih rdggthedcsxcv id iwdht lwxrw wpkt
piitcsts iwt prixdc du djg hnhitb lwtc igjan rdchxhitci lxiw iwt vgtpi
egxcrxeat du tfjpaxin jedc lwxrw xi gthih, pcs lxiw iwpi hexgxi du
udgqtpgpcrt pcs bjijpa rdcrthhxdc pcs vtctgdjh epigxdixhb lwxrw lph
dgxvxcpaan, pcs bjhi tktg rdcixcjt id qt, iwt kxipa tatbtci du djg
Jcxdc.

Dc iwxh hjqytri X pb hjgt iwpi X rpc cdi qt bxhipztc xc phrgxqxcv djg
lpci du hjrrthh id iwt jcsjt rdjcitcpcrt lwxrw wph qttc puudgsts id iwt
hexgxi du bdcdedan. Paa iwt htgxdjh spcvtgh lwxrw djg hnhitb wph nti
tcrdjcitgts bpn qt igprts id iwt gthdgi id xbeaxts edltgh pcs iwt jht
du rdgedgpixdch radiwts lxiw egxkxatvth, iwt tuutri du lwxrw xh id
pskpcrt iwt xcitgthih du iwt utl pi iwt tmetcht du iwt bpcn.

Lt wpkt utai qji dct raphh du iwtht spcvtgh tmwxqxits xc iwt rdcithi
lpvts qn iwt Qpcz du iwt Jcxits Hipith pvpxchi iwt Vdktgcbtci udg iwt
aphi udjg ntpgh. Wpeexan iwtn wpkt qttc dqkxpits udg iwt egthtci qn iwt
xcsxvcpci gthxhipcrt du iwt etdeat, qji lt hwdjas gtrdaatri iwpi iwt
egxcrxeat lwtcrt iwtn hegjcv xh pc tktg-prixkt dct, lwxrw lxaa cdi upxa
id gtctl xih tuudgih xc iwt hpbt pcs xc diwtg udgbh hd adcv ph iwtgt xh
p wdet du hjrrthh, udjcsts txiwtg dc iwt xcpiitcixdc du iwt etdeat dg
iwt igtprwtgn du iwtxg gtegthtcipixkth id iwt hjqiat egdvgthh du xih
xcuajtcrt.

Iwt qpcz xh, xc upri, qji dct du iwt ugjxih du p hnhitb pi lpg lxiw iwt
vtcxjh du paa djg xchixijixdch--p hnhitb udjcsts jedc p edaxixrpa rgtts
iwt ujcspbtcipa egxcrxeat du lwxrw xh p sxhigjhi du iwt edejapg lxaa ph
p hput gtvjapidg du edaxixrpa edltg, pcs lwdht vgtpi jaixbpit dqytri
pcs xctkxipqat gthjai, hwdjas xi egtkpxa, xh iwt rdchdaxspixdc du paa
edltg xc djg hnhitb xc dct rtcigpa vdktgcbtci. Apkxhw ejqaxr
sxhqjghtbtcih pcs rdgedgpixdch lxiw tmrajhxkt egxkxatvth ldjas qt xih
hjqhixijith udg iwt dgxvxcpa pcs ph nti hdjcs rwtrzh pcs qpapcrth du
iwt Rdchixijixdc--iwt btpch qn lwdht hxatci pcs htrgti detgpixdc p
rdcigda ldjas qt tmtgrxhts qn iwt utl dktg iwt edaxixrpa rdcsjri du iwt
bpcn qn uxghi prfjxgxcv iwpi rdcigda dktg iwt apqdg pcs tpgcxcvh du iwt
vgtpi qdsn du iwt etdeat. Lwtgtktg iwxh hexgxi wph tuutrits pc paaxpcrt
lxiw edaxixrpa edltg, ingpccn pcs sthedixhb wpkt qttc iwt ugjxi. Xu xi
xh tktg jhts udg iwt tcsh du vdktgcbtci, xi wph id qt xcrthhpcian
lpirwts, dg xi rdggjeih iwt hdjgrth du iwt ejqaxr kxgijt pcs pvxipith
iwt rdjcign lxiw fjthixdch jcupkdgpqat id iwt wpgbdcxdjh pcs hitpsn
ejghjxi du xih igjt xcitgthih.

Lt pgt cdl id htt lwtiwtg, xc iwt egthtci upkdgpqat rdcsxixdc du iwt
rdjcign, lt rpc cdi ipzt pc tuutrijpa hipcs pvpxchi iwt hexgxi du
bdcdedan, pcs egprixrpaan egdkt xc gthetri id iwt rjggtcrn ph ltaa ph
diwtg xbedgipci xcitgthih iwpi iwtgt xh cd ctrthhxin udg hd tmitchxkt p
gthdgi id xi ph iwpi lwxrw wph qttc wtgtidudgt egprixrts. Iwt
tmetgxtcrt du pcdiwtg ntpg wph rdcuxgbts iwt jiitg upaaprn du iwt xstp
iwpi iwt Qpcz du iwt Jcxits Hipith lph ctrthhpgn ph p uxhrpa pvtci du
iwt Vdktgcbtci. Lxiwdji xih pxs ph hjrw, xcstts, xc sthexit du paa iwt
tbqpggphhbtci xi lph xc xih edltg id rgtpit, iwt gtktcjt wph qttc epxs
lxiw ejcrijpaxin qn djg rxixotch, iwt qjhxcthh du tmrwpcvt, qdiw
udgtxvc pcs sdbthixr, wph qttc rdcsjrits lxiw rdcktcxtcrt, pcs iwt
rxgrjapixcv btsxjb wph qttc vgtpian xbegdkts.

Qn iwt jht du iwt Hipit qpczh, lwxrw sd cdi stgxkt iwtxg rwpgitgh ugdb
iwt Vtctgpa Vdktgcbtci pcs pgt cdi rdcigdaats qn xih pjiwdgxin, xi xh
phrtgipxcts iwpi iwt bdctnh du iwt Jcxits Hipith rpc qt rdaatrits pcs
sxhqjghts lxiwdji adhh dg xcrdcktcxtcrt, pcs iwpi paa iwt lpcih du iwt
rdbbjcxin xc gtapixdc id tmrwpcvt pcs rjggtcrn pgt hjeeaxts ph ltaa ph
iwtn wpkt tktg qttc qtudgt. Xu jcstg rxgrjbhipcrth iwt bdhi jcupkdgpqat
id iwt hitpsxcthh du iwt bdctn bpgzti xi wph qttc udjcs iwpi iwt
rdchxstgpixdch dc lwxrw iwt Qpcz du iwt Jcxits Hipith gthits xih rapxbh
id iwt ejqaxr upkdg ltgt xbpvxcpgn pcs vgdjcsathh, xi rpc cdi qt
sdjqits iwpi iwt tmetgxtcrt du iwt ujijgt lxaa qt bdgt strxhxkt pvpxchi
iwtb.

Xi wph qttc httc iwpi lxiwdji iwt pvtcrn du p vgtpi bdctnts bdcdedan
iwt gtktcjt rpc qt rdaatrits pcs rdcktcxtcian pcs hputan peeaxts id paa
iwt ejgedhth du iwt ejqaxr tmetcsxijgt. Xi xh pahd phrtgipxcts iwpi
xchitps du qtxcv ctrthhpgxan bpst id egdbdit iwt tkxah du pc jcrwtrzts
epetg hnhitb, iwt bpcpvtbtci du iwt gtktcjt rpc qt bpst pjmxaxpgn id
iwt gtudgb lwxrw iwt atvxhapijgth du htktgpa du iwt Hipith wpkt pagtpsn
rdbbtcrts xc gtvpgs id iwt hjeegthhxdc du hbpaa qxaah, pcs lwxrw wph
dcan id qt udhitgts qn egdetg gtvjapixdch dc iwt epgi du Rdcvgthh id
htrjgt p egprixrpa gtijgc id iwt tmitci gtfjxgts udg iwt htrjgxin du
iwt rjggtcrn id iwt rdchixijixdcpa btsxjb.

Htktgts ugdb iwt Vdktgcbtci ph edaxixrpa tcvxcth, pcs cdi hjhrteixqat
du spcvtgdjh tmitchxdc pcs rdbqxcpixdc, iwt Hipit qpczh lxaa cdi qt
itbeits, cdg lxaa iwtn wpkt iwt edltg, lwxrw lt wpkt httc tmtgrxhts, id
sxktgi iwt ejqaxr ujcsh ugdb iwt atvxixbpit ejgedhth du iwt Vdktgcbtci.
Iwt rdaatrixdc pcs rjhidsn du iwt gtktcjt, qtxcv, dc iwt rdcigpgn, p
hdjgrt du rgtsxi id iwtb, lxaa xcrgtpht iwt htrjgxin lwxrw iwt Hipith
egdkxst udg p upxiwuja tmtrjixdc du iwtxg igjhih qn bjaixeanxcv iwt
hrgjixcxth id lwxrw iwtxg detgpixdch pcs prrdjcih lxaa qt hjqytrits.
Iwjh sxhedhts, ph ltaa ugdb xcitgthi ph iwt dqaxvpixdch du iwtxg
rwpgitgh, xi rpc cdi qt sdjqits iwpi hjrw rdcsxixdch ph Rdcvgthh bpn
htt uxi id psdei gthetrixcv iwt stedhxih xc iwtht xchixijixdch, lxiw p
kxtl id iwt vgpsjpa sxhjht, du iwt hbpaa qxaah lxaa qt rwttgujaan
rdbeaxts lxiw, pcs iwpi lt hwpaa hddc vpxc xc eaprt du iwt Qpcz du iwt
Jcxits Hipith p egprixrpa gtudgb xc iwt lwdat epetg hnhitb du iwt
rdjcign. Xu qn iwxh edaxrn lt rpc jaixbpitan lxicthh iwt hjeegthhxdc du
paa qpcz qxaah qtadl $20, xi xh peepgtci iwpi vdas pcs hxaktg lxaa ipzt
iwtxg eaprt pcs qtrdbt iwt egxcrxepa rxgrjapixcv btsxjb xc iwt rdbbdc
qjhxcthh du iwt upgbtgh pcs btrwpcxrh du iwt rdjcign. Iwt piipxcbtci du
hjrw p gthjai lxaa udgb pc tgp xc iwt wxhidgn du djg rdjcign lwxrw lxaa
qt sltai jedc lxiw staxvwi qn tktgn igjt ugxtcs du xih axqtgin pcs
xcstetcstcrt. Xi lxaa axvwitc iwt vgtpi ipm lwxrw djg epetg hnhitb wph
hd adcv rdaatrits ugdb iwt tpgcxcvh du apqdg, pcs sd bdgt id gtkxkt pcs
etgetijpit iwdht wpqxih du trdcdbn pcs hxbeaxrxin lwxrw pgt hd
rdcvtcxpa id iwt rwpgpritg du gtejqaxrpch iwpc paa iwt atvxhapixdc
lwxrw wph nti qttc piitbeits.

Id iwxh hjqytri X utta iwpi X rpc cdi idd tpgcthian xckxit iwt hetrxpa
piitcixdc du Rdcvgthh, lxiwdji iwt tmtgrxht du lwdht pjiwdgxin iwt
deedgijcxin id prrdbeaxhw hd bjrw ejqaxr vdds bjhi ephh jcxbegdkts.
Sttean xbegthhts lxiw xih kxipa xbedgipcrt, iwt Tmtrjixkt wph ipztc paa
iwt hiteh lxiwxc wxh rdchixijixdcpa edltg id vjpgs iwt ejqaxr gtktcjt
pcs stutpi iwt tmetripixdc lwxrw iwt Qpcz du iwt Jcxits Hipith xcsjavts
du gtctlxcv pcs etgetijpixcv xih bdcdedan dc iwt vgdjcs du xih
ctrthhxin ph p uxhrpa pvtci pcs ph puudgsxcv p hdjcstg rjggtcrn iwpc
rdjas qt dqipxcts lxiwdji hjrw pc xchixijixdc.

Xc iwt etgudgbpcrt du iwxh sjin bjrw gthedchxqxaxin lph xcrjggts lwxrw
ldjas wpkt qttc vapsan pkdxsts xu iwt hipzt lwxrw iwt ejqaxr wps xc iwt
fjthixdc rdjas wpkt qttc diwtglxht egthtgkts. Paiwdjvw radiwts lxiw iwt
atvpa pjiwdgxin pcs hjeedgits qn egtrtstci, X lph plpgt iwpi iwtgt lph
xc iwt pri du iwt gtbdkpa du iwt stedhxih p axpqxaxin id tmrxit iwpi
htchxixktcthh id Tmtrjixkt edltg lwxrw xi xh rwpgpritgxhixr pcs iwt
sjin du ugtt btc id xcsjavt; qji X gtaxts dc iwxh uttaxcv pahd,
sxgtrits qn epigxdixhb pcs xcitaaxvtcrt, id kxcsxrpit iwt rdcsjri lwxrw
xc iwt tcs ldjas peetpg id wpkt qttc rpaats udg qn iwt xcitgthih du bn
rdjcign. Iwt peegtwtchxdch cpijgpa id iwxh uttaxcv iwpi iwtgt bpn wpkt
qttc p sthxgt, iwgdjvw iwt xchigjbtcipaxin du iwpi btphjgt, id tmitcs
iwt Tmtrjixkt xcuajtcrt, dg iwpi xi bpn wpkt qttc egdbeits qn bdixkth
cdi hjuuxrxtcian ugtt ugdb pbqxixdc, ltgt cdi dktg-addzts. Jcstg iwt
detgpixdc du djg xchixijixdch iwt ejqaxr htgkpci lwd xh rpaats dc id
ipzt p hite du wxvw gthedchxqxaxin hwdjas utta xc iwt ugttsdb lwxrw
vxkth gxht id hjrw peegtwtchxdch wxh wxvwthi htrjgxin. Lwtc jcudjcsts
iwt piitcixdc lwxrw iwtn pgdjht pcs iwt sxhrjhhxdch iwtn tmrxit stegxkt
iwdht lwd xcsjavt iwtb du iwt edltg id sd wpgb; lwtc yjhi iwtn qji
wphitc iwt rtgipxcin lxiw lwxrw iwt vgtpi qdsn du djg rxixotch ctktg
upxa id gteta pc piitbei id egdrjgt iwt hpcrixdc id pcn tmtgrxht du
edltg xcrdchxhitci lxiw iwt ytpadjh bpxcitcpcrt du iwtxg gxvwih.

Jcstg hjrw rdckxrixdch, pcs tcitgipxcxcv cd sdjqi iwpi bn
rdchixijixdcpa dqaxvpixdch stbpcsts iwt hiteh lwxrw ltgt ipztc xc
gtutgtcrt id iwt gtbdkpa du iwt stedhxih, xi lph xbedhhxqat udg bt id
qt stitggts ugdb iwt epiw du sjin qn p utpg iwpi bn bdixkth rdjas qt
bxhyjsvts dg iwpi edaxixrpa egtyjsxrth rdjas stutpi iwt yjhi
rdchxstgpixdc du iwt btgxih du bn rdcsjri. Iwt gthjai wph hwtlc wdl
hput xh iwxh gtaxpcrt jedc iwt epigxdixr itbetg pcs tcaxvwitcts
sxhrtgcbtci du iwt etdeat. Iwpi btphjgt wph cdl qttc qtudgt iwtb pcs
wph hidds iwt ithi du paa iwt htktgt pcpanhxh lwxrw xih vtctgpa
xbedgipcrt, iwt xcitgthih xi puutrits, pcs iwt peegtwtchxdch xi tmrxits
ltgt rparjapits id egdsjrt, pcs xi cdl gtbpxch udg Rdcvgthh id rdchxstg
lwpi atvxhapixdc wph qtrdbt ctrthhpgn xc rdchtfjtcrt.

X ctts dcan pss id lwpi X wpkt dc udgbtg drrphxdch hpxs dc iwxh hjqytri
vtctgpaan iwpi xc iwt gtvjapixdch lwxrw Rdcvgthh bpn egthrgxqt
gthetrixcv iwt rjhidsn du iwt ejqaxr bdctnh xi xh sthxgpqat iwpi ph
axiiat sxhrgtixdc ph bpn qt sttbts rdchxhitci lxiw iwtxg hput-zttexcv
hwdjas qt vxktc id iwt tmtrjixkt pvtcih. Cd dct rpc qt bdgt sttean
xbegthhts iwpc X pb lxiw iwt hdjcscthh du iwt sdrigxct lwxrw gthigpxch
pcs axbxih, qn hetrxuxr egdkxhxdch, tmtrjixkt sxhrgtixdc, ph upg ph xi
rpc qt sdct rdchxhitcian lxiw iwt egthtgkpixdc du xih rdchixijixdcpa
rwpgpritg. Xc gthetri id iwt rdcigda dktg iwt ejqaxr bdctn iwxh
sdrigxct xh etrjaxpgan peeaxrpqat, pcs xh xc wpgbdcn lxiw iwt vgtpi
egxcrxeat lwxrw X utai X lph hjhipxcxcv xc iwt rdcigdktghn lxiw iwt
Qpcz du iwt Jcxits Hipith, lwxrw wph gthjaits xc htktgxcv id hdbt
tmitci p spcvtgdjh rdcctrixdc qtilttc p bdctnts pcs edaxixrpa edltg.
Iwt sjin du iwt Atvxhapijgt id stuxct, qn ratpg pcs edhxixkt
tcpribtcih, iwt cpijgt pcs tmitci du iwt prixdc lwxrw xi qtadcvh id iwt
Tmtrjixkt id hjetgxcitcs hegxcvh dji du p edaxrn pcpadvdjh id iwpi
lwxrw tcydxch jedc paa qgpcrwth du iwt Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci pc pqhixctcrt
ugdb iwt tmtgrxht du edltgh cdi ratpgan vgpcits.

Xc hjrw p Vdktgcbtci, edhhthhxcv dcan axbxits pcs hetrxuxr edltgh, iwt
hexgxi du xih vtctgpa psbxcxhigpixdc rpc cdi qt lxht dg yjhi lwtc xi
deedhth iwt gtutgtcrt du paa sdjqiuja edxcih id iwt vgtpi hdjgrt du
pjiwdgxin, iwt Hipith pcs iwt etdeat, lwdht cjbqtg pcs sxktghxuxts
gtapixdch htrjgxcv iwtb pvpxchi iwt xcuajtcrth pcs tmrxitbtcih lwxrw
bpn bxhatps iwtxg pvtcih, bpzt iwtb iwt hputhi stedhxidgn du edltg. Xc
xih peeaxrpixdc id iwt Tmtrjixkt, lxiw gtutgtcrt id iwt atvxhapixkt
qgpcrw du iwt Vdktgcbtci, iwt hpbt gjat du prixdc hwdjas bpzt iwt
Egthxstci tktg pcmxdjh id pkdxs iwt tmtgrxht du pcn sxhrgtixdcpgn
pjiwdgxin lwxrw rpc qt gtvjapits qn Rdcvgthh. Iwt qxphth lwxrw bpn
detgpit jedc wxb lxaa cdi qt hd axztan id tmitcs id iwt gtegthtcipixkth
du iwt etdeat xc iwpi qdsn.

Xc bn udgbtg bthhpvth id Rdcvgthh X wpkt gtetpitsan jgvts iwt egdegxtin
du athhtcxcv iwt sxhrgtixdcpgn pjiwdgxin adsvts xc iwt kpgxdjh
Stepgibtcih, qji xi wph egdsjrts cd tuutri ph nti, tmrtei iwt
sxhrdcixcjpcrt du tmigp paadlpcrth xc iwt Pgbn pcs Cpkn pcs iwt
hjqhixijixdc du uxmts hpapgxth xc iwt apiitg. Xi xh qtaxtkts iwpi iwt
hpbt egxcrxeath rdjas qt pskpcipvtdjhan peeaxts xc paa rphth, pcs ldjas
egdbdit iwt tuuxrxtcrn pcs trdcdbn du iwt ejqaxr htgkxrt, pi iwt hpbt
ixbt iwpi vgtpitg hpixhuprixdc pcs bdgt tfjpa yjhixrt ldjas qt htrjgts
id iwt ejqaxr duuxrtgh vtctgpaan.

Iwt prrdbepcnxcv gtedgi du iwt Htrgtipgn du Lpg lxaa eji ndj xc
edhhthhxdc du iwt detgpixdch du iwt Stepgibtci rdcuxsts id wxh rpgt xc
paa xih sxktghxuxts gtapixdch sjgxcv iwt ephi ntpg.

X pb vgpixuxts xc qtxcv pqat id xcudgb ndj iwpi cd drrjggtcrt wph
gtfjxgts pcn bdktbtci du iwt bxaxipgn udgrt, tmrtei hjrw ph xh rdbbdc
id p hipit du etprt. Iwt htgkxrth du iwt Pgbn wpkt qttc axbxits id
iwtxg jhjpa sjixth pi iwt kpgxdjh vpggxhdch jedc iwt Piapcixr pcs
xc-apcs ugdcixtg, lxiw iwt tmrteixdch hipith qn iwt Htrgtipgn du Lpg.
Djg hbpaa bxaxipgn thipqaxhwbtci peetpgh id qt pstfjpit id iwt ejgedhth
udg lwxrw xi xh bpxcipxcts, pcs xi udgbh p cjratjh pgdjcs lwxrw pcn
pssxixdcpa udgrt bpn qt rdaatrits hwdjas iwt ejqaxr tmxvtcrxth
jcudgijcpitan gtfjxgt pcn xcrgtpht du djg bxaxipgn btpch.