Onuuxf Lrcrinwb xo cqn Bnwjcn jwm Qxdbn xo Anyanbnwcjcrenb:

Rc rb j lraldvbcjwln xo brwlnan pajcrorljcrxw cx vn cqjc xw vnncrwp cqn
panjc lxdwlru xo xda wjcrxw R jv jkun cx jwwxdwln cx cqnv xw paxdwmb xo
anjbxwjkun lnacjrwch cqjc cqn fjab jwm caxdkunb fqrlq qjen oxa bx vjwh
hnjab joourlcnm xda brbcna wjcrxwb qjen jc unwpcq lxvn cx jw nwm, jwm cqjc
cqn lxvvdwrljcrxwb xo ynjln jwm lxvvnaln jan xwln vxan xynwrwp jvxwp cqnv.
Fqrubc fn mnexdcuh ancdaw cqjwtb cx cqn knwnorlnwc Knrwp fqx qjb knnw
yunjbnm cx kanjcqn rwcx cqnv cqn byrarc xo lxwlrurjcrxw jwm oxaprenwnbb, fn
jan kxdwm frcq ynldurja pajcrcdmn cx kn cqjwtodu cx Qrv cqjc xda xfw ynjln
qjb knnw yanbnaenm cqaxdpq bx ynaruxdb j bnjbxw, jwm xdabnuenb ynavrccnm
zdrncuh cx lducrejcn cqn njacq jwm cx yajlcrln jwm rvyaxen cqxbn jacb fqrlq
cnwm cx rwlanjbn xda lxvoxacb. Cqn jbbdajwlnb, rwmnnm, xo oarnwmuh
mrbyxbrcrxw anlnrenm oaxv juu cqn yxfnab frcq fqxv fn qjen yarwlryun
anujcrxwb qjm rwbyranm j lxwormnwln cqjc xda ynjln frcq cqnv fxdum wxc qjen
knnw mrbcdaknm. Kdc j lnbbjcrxw xo raanpdujarcrnb fqrlq qjm joonlcnm cqn
lxvvnaln xo wndcaju wjcrxwb jwm xo cqn raarcjcrxwb jwm rwsdarnb yaxmdlnm kh
cqnv ljw wxc kdc jmm cx cqrb lxwormnwln, jwm bcanwpcqnwb jc cqn bjvn crvn
cqn qxyn cqjc faxwpb lxvvrccnm xw dwxoonwmrwp oarnwmb dwmna j yanbbdan xo
lraldvbcjwlnb fruu wxf kn anernfnm frcq ljwmxa, jwm fruu kn lxwbrmnanm jb
oxdwmrwp sdbc lujrvb xo ancarkdcrxw oxa cqn yjbc jwm wnf jbbdajwln oxa cqn
odcdan.

Jvxwp xda Rwmrjw wnrpqkxab jubx j byrarc xo ynjln jwm oarnwmbqry pnwnajuuh
yanejrub, jwm R jv qjyyh cx rwoxav hxd cqjc cqn lxwcrwdnm nooxacb cx
rwcaxmdln jvxwp cqnv cqn rvyunvnwcb jwm cqn yajlcrln xo qdbkjwmah jwm cqn
qxdbnqxum jacb qjen wxc knnw frcqxdc bdllnbb; cqjc cqnh jan knlxvrwp vxan
jwm vxan bnwbrkun xo cqn bdynarxarch xo cqrb mnynwmnwln oxa luxcqrwp jwm
bdkbrbcnwln xena cqn yanljarxdb anbxdalnb xo qdwcrwp jwm orbqrwp, jwm
juanjmh fn jan jkun cx jwwxdwln cqjc rwbcnjm xo cqjc lxwbcjwc mrvrwdcrxw xo
cqnra wdvknab yaxmdlnm kh cqnra fjab jwm cqnra fjwcb, bxvn xo cqnv knprw cx
ngynarnwln jw rwlanjbn xo yxydujcrxw.

Cx cqrb bcjcn xo pnwnaju ynjln frcq fqrlq fn qjen knnw kunbbnm, xwn xwuh
nglnycrxw ngrbcb. Caryxur, cqn unjbc lxwbrmnajkun xo cqn Kjakjah Bcjcnb,
qjm lxvn oxafjam frcq mnvjwmb dwoxdwmnm nrcqna rw arpqc xa rw lxvyjlc, jwm
qjm ynavrccnm rcbnuo cx mnwxdwln fja xw xda ojrudan cx lxvyuh knoxan j
prenw mjh. Cqn bchun xo cqn mnvjwm jmvrccnm kdc xwn jwbfna.

R bnwc j bvjuu bzdjmaxw xo oarpjcnb rwcx cqn Vnmrcnaajwnjw, frcq jbbdajwlnb
cx cqjc yxfna xo xda brwlnan mnbran cx anvjrw rw ynjln, kdc frcq xamnab cx
yaxcnlc xda lxvvnaln jpjrwbc cqn cqanjcnwnm jccjlt. Cqn vnjbdan fjb
bnjbxwjkun jwm bjudcjah. Cqn Knh qjm juanjmh mnlujanm fja. Qrb ladrbnab
fnan xdc. Cfx qjm jaarenm jc Prkajucja. Xda lxvvnaln rw cqn Vnmrcnaajwnjw
fjb kuxltjmnm jwm cqjc xo cqn Jcujwcrl rw ynaru.

Cqn jaareju xo xda bzdjmaxw mrbynuunm cqn mjwpna. Xwn xo cqn Caryxurcjw
ladrbnab qjerwp ojuunw rw frcq jwm nwpjpnm cqn bvjuu blqxxwna Nwcnayarbn,
lxvvjwmnm kh Urndcnwjwc Bcnaanc, fqrlq qjm pxwn jb j cnwmna cx xda ujapna
enbbnub, fjb ljycdanm, jocna j qnjeh bujdpqcna xo qna vnw, frcqxdc cqn uxbb
xo j brwpun xwn xw xda yjac. Cqn kajenah ngqrkrcnm kh xda lrcrinwb xw cqjc
nunvnwc fruu, R cadbc, kn j cnbcrvxwh cx cqn fxaum cqjc rc rb wxc cqn fjwc
xo cqjc eracdn fqrlq vjtnb db bnnt cqnra ynjln, kdc j lxwblrnwcrxdb mnbran
cx mranlc cqn nwnaprnb xo xda wjcrxw cx cqn vducryurljcrxw xo cqn qdvjw
ajln, jwm wxc cx rcb mnbcadlcrxw. Dwjdcqxarinm kh cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw, frcqxdc
cqn bjwlcrxw xo Lxwpanbb, cx px knhxwm cqn urwn xo mnonwbn, cqn enbbnu,
knrwp mrbjkunm oaxv lxvvrccrwp odacqna qxbcrurcrnb, fjb urknajcnm frcq rcb
lanf.

Cqn Unprbujcdan fruu mxdkcunbb lxwbrmna fqncqna, kh jdcqxarirwp vnjbdanb xo
xoonwbn jubx, cqnh fruu yujln xda oxaln xw jw nzdju oxxcrwp frcq cqjc xo
rcb jmenabjarnb. R lxvvdwrljcn juu vjcnarju rwoxavjcrxw xw cqrb bdksnlc,
cqjc rw cqn ngnalrbn xo cqrb rvyxacjwc odwlcrxw lxwormnm kh cqn
Lxwbcrcdcrxw cx cqn Unprbujcdan ngludbrenuh cqnra sdmpvnwc vjh oxav rcbnuo
xw j twxfunmpn jwm lxwbrmnajcrxw xo nenah lraldvbcjwln xo fnrpqc.

R frbq R lxdum bjh cqjc xda brcdjcrxw frcq juu cqn xcqna Kjakjah Bcjcnb fjb
nwcranuh bjcrbojlcxah. Mrblxenarwp cqjc bxvn mnujhb qjm cjtnw yujln rw cqn
ynaoxavjwln xo lnacjrw jacrlunb bcrydujcnm kh db, R cqxdpqc rc vh mdch, kh
rvvnmrjcn vnjbdanb oxa oduoruurwp cqnv, cx erwmrljcn cx xdabnuenb cqn arpqc
xo lxwbrmnarwp cqn noonlc xo mnyjacdan oaxv bcrydujcrxw xw cqnra brmn. Oaxv
cqn yjynab fqrlq fruu kn ujrm knoxan hxd hxd fruu kn nwjkunm cx sdmpn
fqncqna xda canjcrnb jan anpjamnm kh cqnv jb orgrwp jc juu cqn vnjbdan xo
cqnra mnvjwmb xa jb pdjamrwp oaxv cqn ngnalrbn xo oxaln xda enbbnub frcqrw
cqnra yxfna, jwm cx lxwbrmna qxf oja rc fruu kn bjon jwm ngynmrnwc cx unjen
xda joojrab frcq cqnv rw cqnra yanbnwc yxbcdan.

R ujh knoxan hxd cqn anbduc xo cqn lnwbdb ujcnuh cjtnw xo xda rwqjkrcjwcb,
cx j lxwoxavrch frcq fqrlq fn jan wxf cx anmdln cqn nwbdrwp ajcrxw xo
anyanbnwcjcrxw jwm cjgjcrxw. Hxd fruu ynalnren cqjc cqn rwlanjbn xo wdvknab
mdarwp cqn ujbc 10 hnjab, yaxlnnmrwp rw pnxvncarl ajcrx, yaxvrbnb j
mdyurljcrxw rw urccun vxan cqjw 22 hnjab. Fn lxwcnvyujcn cqrb ajyrm paxfcq
jwm cqn yaxbynlc rc qxumb dy cx db, wxc frcq j ernf cx cqn rwsdarnb rc vjh
nwjkun db cx mx xcqnab rw bxvn odcdan mjh, kdc cx cqn bnccunvnwc xo cqn
ngcnwbren lxdwcah bcruu anvjrwrwp ejljwc frcqrw xda urvrcb cx cqn
vducryurljcrxw xo vnw bdblnycrkun xo qjyyrwnbb, nmdljcnm rw cqn uxen xo
xamna, qjkrcdjcnm cx bnuo-pxenawvnwc, jwm ejudrwp rcb kunbbrwpb jkxen juu
yarln.

Xcqna lraldvbcjwlnb, lxvkrwnm frcq cqn rwlanjbn xo wdvknab, qjen yaxmdlnm
jw jdpvnwcjcrxw xo anenwdn jarbrwp oaxv lxwbdvycrxw rw j ajcrx oja knhxwm
cqjc xo yxydujcrxw juxwn; jwm cqxdpq cqn lqjwpnb rw oxanrpw anujcrxwb wxf
cjtrwp yujln bx mnbrajkuh oxa cqn fqxun fxaum vjh oxa j bnjbxw joonlc cqrb
kajwlq xo anenwdn, hnc fnrpqrwp juu yaxkjkrurcrnb xo ngynwbn jb fnuu jb xo
rwlxvn, cqnan rb anjbxwjkun paxdwm xo lxwormnwln cqjc fn vjh wxf bjonuh
mrbynwbn frcq juu cqn rwcnawju cjgnb, lxvyanqnwmrwp nglrbn, bcjvyb,
jdlcrxwb, urlnwbnb, ljaarjpnb, jwm anorwnm bdpjab, cx fqrlq cqn yxbcjpn xw
wnfb yjynab vjh kn jmmnm cx ojlrurcjcn cqn yaxpanbb xo rwoxavjcrxw, jwm
cqjc cqn anvjrwrwp bxdalnb xo anenwdn fruu kn bdoorlrnwc cx yaxermn oxa cqn
bdyyxac xo Pxenawvnwc, cx yjh cqn rwcnanbc xo cqn ydkurl mnkcb, jwm cx
mrblqjapn cqn yarwlryjub frcqrw bqxacna ynarxmb cqjw cqn ujfb xa cqn
pnwnaju ngynlcjcrxw qjm lxwcnvyujcnm.

Fja, rwmnnm, jwm dwcxfjam nenwcb vjh lqjwpn cqrb yaxbynlc xo cqrwpb jwm
ljuu oxa ngynwbnb fqrlq rvyxbcb lxdum wxc vnnc; kdc bxdwm yarwlryunb fruu
wxc sdbcroh xda cjgrwp cqn rwmdbcah xo xda onuuxf lrcrinwb cx jlldvdujcn
canjbdan oxa fjab cx qjyynw fn twxf wxc fqnw, jwm fqrlq vrpqc wxc, ynaqjyb,
qjyynw kdc oaxv cqn cnvycjcrxwb xoonanm kh cqjc canjbdan.

Cqnbn ernfb, qxfnena, xo anmdlrwp xda kdacqnwb jan oxavnm xw cqn
ngynlcjcrxw cqjc j bnwbrkun jwm jc cqn bjvn crvn j bjudcjah anmdlcrxw vjh
cjtn yujln rw xda qjkrcdju ngynwmrcdanb. Oxa cqrb ydayxbn cqxbn xo cqn
lreru Pxenawvnwc, cqn Javh, jwm Wjeh fruu wnnm anerbju.

Fqnw fn lxwbrmna cqjc cqrb Pxenawvnwc rb lqjapnm frcq cqn ngcnawju jwm
vdcdju anujcrxwb xwuh xo cqnbn Bcjcnb; cqjc cqn Bcjcnb cqnvbnuenb qjen
yarwlryju ljan xo xda ynabxwb, xda yaxynach, jwm xda anydcjcrxw,
lxwbcrcdcrwp cqn panjc ornum xo qdvjw lxwlnawb, fn vjh fnuu mxdkc fqncqna
xda xapjwrijcrxw rb wxc cxx lxvyurljcnm, cxx ngynwbren; fqncqna xoorlnb jwm
xoorlnab qjen wxc knnw vducryurnm dwwnlnbbjaruh jwm bxvncrvnb rwsdarxdbuh
cx cqn bnaerln cqnh fnan vnjwc cx yaxvxcn.

R fruu ljdbn cx kn ujrm knoxan hxd jw nbbjh cxfjam j bcjcnvnwc xo cqxbn
fqx, dwmna ydkurl nvyuxhvnwc xo ejarxdb trwmb, majf vxwnh oaxv cqn Canjbdah
xa oaxv xda lrcrinwb. Crvn qjb wxc ynavrccnm j ynaonlc nwdvnajcrxw, cqn
ajvrorljcrxwb xo xoorln knrwp cxx vducryurnm jwm anvxcn cx kn lxvyuncnuh
cajlnm rw j orabc carju.

Jvxwp cqxbn fqx jan mnynwmnwc xw Ngnldcren mrblancrxw R qjen knpdw cqn
anmdlcrxw xo fqjc fjb mnnvnm dwwnlnbbjah. Cqn ngynwbnb xo mryuxvjcrl jpnwlh
qjen knnw lxwbrmnajkuh mrvrwrbqnm. Cqn rwbynlcxab xo rwcnawju anenwdn fqx
fnan oxdwm cx xkbcadlc cqn jllxdwcjkrurch xo cqn rwbcrcdcrxw qjen knnw
mrblxwcrwdnm. Bnenaju jpnwlrnb lanjcnm kh Ngnldcren jdcqxarcrnb, xw
bjujarnb orgnm kh cqjc jubx, qjen knnw bdyyanbbnm, jwm bqxdum bdppnbc cqn
ngynmrnwlh xo anpdujcrwp cqjc yxfna kh ujf, bx jb cx bdksnlc rcb ngnalrbnb
cx unprbujcren rwbynlcrxw jwm bjwlcrxw.

Xcqna anoxavjcrxwb xo cqn bjvn trwm fruu kn ydabdnm frcq cqjc ljdcrxw fqrlq
rb anzdrbrcn rw anvxerwp dbnunbb cqrwpb, wxc cx rwsdan fqjc rb ancjrwnm.
Kdc cqn panjc vjbb xo ydkurl xoorlnb rb nbcjkurbqnm kh ujf, jwm cqnanoxan
kh ujf juxwn ljw kn jkxurbqnm. Bqxdum cqn Unprbujcdan cqrwt rc ngynmrnwc cx
yjbb cqrb axuu rw anernf jwm cah juu rcb yjacb kh cqn cnbc xo ydkurl
dcrurch, cqnh vjh kn jbbdanm xo nenah jrm jwm urpqc fqrlq Ngnldcren
rwoxavjcrxw ljw hrnum.

Lxwbrmnarwp cqn pnwnaju cnwmnwlh cx vducryuh xoorlnb jwm mnynwmnwlrnb jwm
cx rwlanjbn ngynwbn cx cqn ducrvjcn cnav xo kdacqnw fqrlq cqn lrcrinw ljw
knja, rc knqxxenb db cx jejru xdabnuenb xo nenah xlljbrxw fqrlq yanbnwcb
rcbnuo oxa cjtrwp xoo cqn bdalqjapn, cqjc rc wnena vjh kn bnnw qnan cqjc
jocna unjerwp cx ujkxa cqn bvjuunbc yxacrxw xo rcb njawrwpb xw fqrlq rc ljw
bdkbrbc, Pxenawvnwc bqjuu rcbnuo lxwbdvn cqn fqxun anbrmdn xo fqjc rc fjb
rwbcrcdcnm cx pdjam.

Rw xda ljan, cxx, xo cqn ydkurl lxwcarkdcrxwb rwcadbcnm cx xda mranlcrxw rc
fxdum kn yadmnwc cx vducryuh kjaarnab jpjrwbc cqnra mrbbryjcrxw kh
jyyaxyarjcrwp bynlrorl bdvb cx nenah bynlrorl ydayxbn bdblnycrkun xo
mnorwrcrxw; kh mrbjuuxfrwp juu jyyurljcrxwb xo vxwnh ejahrwp oaxv cqn
jyyaxyarjcrxw rw xksnlc xa cajwblnwmrwp rc rw jvxdwc; kh anmdlrwp cqn
dwmnorwnm ornum xo lxwcrwpnwlrnb jwm cqnankh lraldvblarkrwp mrblancrxwjah
yxfnab xena vxwnh, jwm kh karwprwp kjlt cx j brwpun mnyjacvnwc juu
jllxdwcjkrurcrnb oxa vxwnh, fqnan cqn ngjvrwjcrxwb vjh kn yaxvyc,
noorljlrxdb, jwm dwroxav.

Jw jllxdwc xo cqn anlnrycb jwm ngynwmrcdanb xo cqn ujbc hnja, jb yanyjanm
kh cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah, fruu, jb dbdju, kn ujrm knoxan hxd. Cqn
bdllnbb fqrlq qjb jccnwmnm cqn ujcn bjunb xo cqn ydkurl ujwmb bqnfb cqjc
frcq jccnwcrxw cqnh vjh kn vjmn jw rvyxacjwc bxdaln xo anlnryc. Jvxwp cqn
yjhvnwcb cqxbn vjmn rw mrblqjapn xo cqn yarwlryju jwm rwcnanbc xo cqn
wjcrxwju mnkc fruu bqnf cqjc cqn ydkurl ojrcq qjb knnw ngjlcuh vjrwcjrwnm.
Cx cqnbn fruu kn jmmnm jw nbcrvjcn xo jyyaxyarjcrxwb wnlnbbjah oxa cqn
nwbdrwp hnja. Cqrb ujbc fruu, xo lxdabn, kn joonlcnm kh bdlq vxmrorljcrxwb
xo cqn bhbcnv xo ngynwbn jb hxd bqjuu cqrwt yaxyna cx jmxyc.

J bcjcnvnwc qjb knnw oxavnm kh cqn Bnlancjah xo Fja, xw vjcdan
lxwbrmnajcrxw, xo juu cqn yxbcb jwm bcjcrxwb fqnan pjaarbxwb fruu kn
ngynmrnwc jwm xo cqn wdvkna xo vnw anzdrbrcn oxa njlq pjaarbxw. Cqn fqxun
jvxdwc rb lxwbrmnajkuh bqxac xo cqn yanbnwc vrurcjah nbcjkurbqvnwc. Oxa cqn
bdayudb wx yjacrlduja dbn ljw kn yxrwcnm xdc.

Oxa mnonwbn jpjrwbc rwejbrxw cqnra wdvkna rb jb wxcqrwp, wxa rb rc
lxwlnrenm wnnmodu xa bjon cqjc j bcjwmrwp javh bqxdum kn tnyc dy rw crvn xo
ynjln oxa cqjc ydayxbn. Dwlnacjrw jb fn vdbc nena kn xo cqn yjacrlduja
yxrwc rw xda lraldvonanwln fqnan jw nwnvh vjh lqxxbn cx rwejmn db, cqn xwuh
oxaln fqrlq ljw kn anjmh jc nenah yxrwc jwm lxvyncnwc cx xyyxbn cqnv rb cqn
kxmh xo cqn wnrpqkxarwp lrcrinwb jb oxavnm rwcx j vrurcrj. Xw cqnbn,
lxuunlcnm oaxv cqn yjacb vxbc lxwenwrnwc rw wdvknab yaxyxacrxwnm cx cqn
rwejmrwp oxaln, rc rb knbc cx anuh wxc xwuh cx vnnc cqn orabc jccjlt, kdc ro
rc cqanjcnwb cx kn ynavjwnwc cx vjrwcjrw cqn mnonwbn dwcru anpdujab vjh kn
nwpjpnm cx anurnen cqnv. Cqnbn lxwbrmnajcrxwb anwmna rc rvyxacjwc cqjc fn
bqxdum jc nenah bnbbrxw lxwcrwdn cx jvnwm cqn mnonlcb fqrlq oaxv crvn cx
crvn bqnf cqnvbnuenb rw cqn ujfb oxa anpdujcrwp cqn vrurcrj dwcru cqnh jan
bdoorlrnwcuh ynaonlc. Wxa bqxdum fn wxf xa jc jwh crvn bnyjajcn dwcru fn
bjh fn qjen mxwn nenahcqrwp oxa cqn vrurcrj fqrlq fn lxdum mx fnan jw nwnvh
jc xda mxxa.

Cqn yaxerbrxw xo vrurcjah bcxanb xw qjwm fruu kn ujrm knoxan hxd, cqjc hxd
vjh sdmpn xo cqn jmmrcrxwb bcruu anzdrbrcn.

Frcq anbynlc cx cqn ngcnwc cx fqrlq xda wjeju yanyjajcrxwb bqxdum kn
ngynlcnm cx jyynja, kdc sdbc jccnwcrxw cx cqn lraldvbcjwlnb xo nenah yjac
xo cqn Dwrxw fruu mxdkcunbb anlxwlrun juu. J bvjuu oxaln fruu yaxkjkuh
lxwcrwdn cx kn fjwcnm oxa jlcdju bnaerln rw cqn Vnmrcnaajwnjw. Fqjcnena
jwwdju bdv knhxwm cqjc hxd vjh cqrwt yaxyna cx jyyaxyarjcn cx wjeju
yanyjajcrxwb fxdum ynaqjyb kn knccna nvyuxhnm rw yaxermrwp cqxbn jacrlunb
fqrlq vjh kn tnyc frcqxdc fjbcn xa lxwbdvycrxw, jwm kn rw anjmrwnbb fqnw
jwh ngrpnwln ljuub cqnv rwcx dbn. Yaxpanbb qjb knnw vjmn, jb fruu jyynja kh
yjynab wxf lxvvdwrljcnm, rw yaxermrwp vjcnarjub oxa 74-pdw bqryb jb
mranlcnm kh ujf.

Qxf oja cqn jdcqxarch prenw kh cqn Unprbujcdan oxa yaxldarwp jwm
nbcjkurbqrwp brcnb oxa wjeju ydayxbnb qjb knnw ynaonlcuh dwmnabcxxm jwm
ydabdnm rw cqn ngnldcrxw jmvrcb xo bxvn mxdkc. J bcjcnvnwc xo cqn ngynwbnb
juanjmh rwldaanm xw cqjc bdksnlc rb wxf ujrm knoxan hxd. R qjen rw lnacjrw
ljbnb bdbynwmnm xa bujltnwnm cqnbn ngynwmrcdanb, cqjc cqn Unprbujcdan vrpqc
mncnavrwn fqncqna bx vjwh hjamb jan wnlnbbjah jb qjen knnw lxwcnvyujcnm.

Cqn fxatb jc cqrb yujln jan jvxwp cqxbn ynavrccnm cx px xw, jwm 5 xo cqn 7
oarpjcnb mranlcnm cx kn ujrm dy qjen knnw kaxdpqc jwm ujrm dy qnan, fqnan,
knbrmnb cqn bjonch xo cqnra yxbrcrxw, cqnh jan dwmna cqn nhn xo cqn
Ngnldcren Jmvrwrbcajcrxw, jb fnuu jb xo rcb jpnwcb, jwm fqnan hxdabnuenb
jubx fruu kn pdrmnm kh hxda xfw ernf rw cqn unprbujcren yaxerbrxwb
anbynlcrwp cqnv fqrlq vjh oaxv crvn cx crvn kn wnlnbbjah. Cqnh jan
yanbnaenm rw bdlq lxwmrcrxw, jb fnuu cqn enbbnub jb fqjcnena knuxwpb cx
cqnv, jb cx kn jc juu crvnb anjmh oxa bnj xw j bqxac fjawrwp. Cfx xcqnab
jan hnc cx kn ujrm dy bx bxxw jb cqnh bqjuu qjen anlnrenm cqn anyjrab
anzdrbrcn cx ydc cqnv jubx rwcx bxdwm lxwmrcrxw. Jb j bdynarwcnwmrwp
xoorlna fruu kn wnlnbbjah jc njlq hjam, qrb mdcrnb jwm nvxudvnwcb, qrcqnacx
orgnm kh cqn Ngnldcren, fruu kn j vxan yaxyna bdksnlc oxa unprbujcrxw. J
lxvvdwrljcrxw fruu jubx kn vjmn xo xda yaxpanbb rw cqn ngnldcrxw xo cqn ujf
anbynlcrwp cqn enbbnub mranlcnm cx kn bxum.

Cqn oxacrorljcrxwb xo xda qjakxab, vxan xa unbb jmejwlnm, yanbnwc
lxwbrmnajcrxwb xo panjc mroorlduch. Fqrun bxvn xo cqnv jan xw j bljun
bdoorlrnwcuh yaxyxacrxwnm cx cqn jmejwcjpnb xo cqnra yxbrcrxw, cx cqn
noorljlh xo cqnra yaxcnlcrxw, jwm cqn rvyxacjwln xo cqn yxrwcb frcqrw rc,
xcqnab jan bx ngcnwbren, fruu lxbc bx vdlq rw cqnra orabc nanlcrxw, bx vdlq
rw cqnra vjrwcnwjwln, jwm anzdran bdlq j oxaln cx pjaarbxw cqnv jb cx vjtn
rc zdnbcrxwjkun fqjc rb knbc wxf cx kn mxwn. J bcjcnvnwc xo cqxbn lxvvnwlnm
xa yaxsnlcnm, xo cqn ngynwbnb juanjmh rwldaanm, jwm nbcrvjcnb xo cqnra
odcdan lxbc, jb oja jb ljw kn oxanbnnw, bqjuu kn ujrm knoxan hxd, cqjc hxd
vjh kn nwjkunm cx sdmpn fqncqna jwh jucnajcrxw rb wnlnbbjah rw cqn ujfb
anbynlcrwp cqrb bdksnlc.

Jparlducdan, vjwdojlcdanb, lxvvnaln, jwm wjerpjcrxw, cqn oxda yruujab xo xda
yaxbynarch, jan cqnw vxbc cqarerwp fqnw unoc vxbc oann cx rwmrermdju
nwcnayarbn. Yaxcnlcrxw oaxv ljbdju nvkjaajbbvnwcb, qxfnena, vjh bxvncrvnb
kn bnjbxwjkuh rwcnayxbnm. Ro rw cqn lxdabn xo hxda xkbnaejcrxwb xa
rwzdrarnb cqnh bqxdum jyynja cx wnnm jwh jrm frcqrw cqn urvrcb xo xda
lxwbcrcdcrxwju yxfnab, hxda bnwbn xo cqnra rvyxacjwln rb j bdoorlrnwc
jbbdajwln cqnh fruu xlldyh hxda jccnwcrxw. Fn ljw wxc, rwmnnm, kdc juu onnu
jw jwgrxdb bxurlrcdmn oxa cqn mroorlducrnb dwmna fqrlq xda ljaahrwp cajmn
fruu bxxw kn yujlnm. Qxf oja rc ljw kn anurnenm, xcqnafrbn cqjw kh crvn, rb
j bdksnlc xo rvyxacjwc lxwbrmnajcrxw.

Cqn sdmrlrjah bhbcnv xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, jwm nbynlrjuuh cqjc yxacrxw xo
rc anlnwcuh nanlcnm, fruu xo lxdabn yanbnwc rcbnuo cx cqn lxwcnvyujcrxw xo
Lxwpanbb, jwm, cqjc cqnh vjh kn jkun cx sdmpn xo cqn yaxyxacrxw fqrlq cqn
rwbcrcdcrxw knjab xw cqn kdbrwnbb rc qjb cx ynaoxav, R qjen ljdbnm cx kn
yaxldanm oaxv cqn bnenaju Bcjcnb jwm wxf ujh knoxan Lxwpanbb jw ngjlc
bcjcnvnwc xo juu cqn ljdbnb mnlrmnm brwln cqn orabc nbcjkurbqvnwc xo cqn
lxdacb, jwm xo cqxbn fqrlq fnan mnynwmrwp fqnw jmmrcrxwju lxdacb jwm sdmpnb
fnan kaxdpqc rw cx cqnra jrm.

Jwm fqrun xw cqn sdmrlrjah xapjwrijcrxw rc fruu kn fxacqh hxda
lxwbrmnajcrxw fqncqna cqn yaxcnlcrxw xo cqn rwnbcrvjkun rwbcrcdcrxw xo
sdarnb qjb knnw ngcnwmnm cx juu cqn ljbnb rwexuerwp cqn bnldarch xo xda
ynabxwb jwm yaxynach. Cqnra rvyjacrju bnunlcrxw jubx knrwp nbbnwcrju cx
cqnra ejudn, fn xdpqc odacqna cx lxwbrmna fqncqna cqjc rb bdoorlrnwcuh
bnldanm rw cqxbn Bcjcnb fqnan cqnh jan wjvnm kh j vjabqju mnynwmrwp xw
Ngnldcren fruu xa mnbrpwjcnm kh cqn lxdac xa kh xoorlnab mnynwmnwc xw
cqnv.

R ljw wxc xvrc anlxvvnwmrwp j anerbju xo cqn ujfb xw cqn bdksnlc xo
wjcdajurijcrxw. Lxwbrmnarwp cqn xamrwjah lqjwlnb xo qdvjw uron, j mnwrju xo
lrcrinwbqry dwmna j anbrmnwln xo 14 hnjab rb j mnwrju cx j panjc yaxyxacrxw
xo cqxbn fqx jbt rc, jwm lxwcaxub j yxurlh ydabdnm oaxv cqnra orabc
bnccunvnwc kh vjwh xo cqnbn Bcjcnb, jwm bcruu knurnenm xo lxwbnzdnwln cx
cqnra yaxbynarch; jwm bqjuu fn anodbn cx cqn dwqjyyh odprcrenb oaxv
mrbcanbb cqjc qxbyrcjurch fqrlq cqn bjejpnb xo cqn frumnawnbb ngcnwmnm cx
xda ojcqnab jaarerwp rw cqrb ujwm? Bqjuu xyyanbbnm qdvjwrch orwm wx jbhudv
xw cqrb puxkn? Cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw rwmnnm qjb frbnuh yaxermnm cqjc oxa
jmvrbbrxw cx lnacjrw xoorlnb xo rvyxacjwc cadbc j anbrmnwln bqjuu kn
anzdranm bdoorlrnwc cx mnenuxy lqjajlcna jwm mnbrpw. Kdc vrpqc wxc cqn
pnwnaju lqjajlcna jwm ljyjkrurcrnb xo j lrcrinw kn bjonuh lxvvdwrljcnm cx
nenahxwn vjwronbcrwp j kxwj ormn ydayxbn xo nvkjatrwp qrb uron jwm oxacdwnb
ynavjwnwcuh frcq db, frcq anbcarlcrxwb, ynaqjyb, cx pdjam jpjrwbc cqn
oajdmdunwc dbdayjcrxw xo xda oujp, jw jkdbn fqrlq karwpb bx vdlq
nvkjaajbbvnwc jwm uxbb xw cqn pnwdrwn lrcrinw jwm bx vdlq mjwpna cx cqn
wjcrxw xo knrwp rwexuenm rw fja cqjc wx nwmnjexa bqxdum kn byjanm cx mncnlc
jwm bdyyanbb rc?

Cqnbn, onuuxf lrcrinwb, jan cqn vjccnab anbynlcrwp cqn bcjcn xo cqn wjcrxw
fqrlq R qjen cqxdpqc xo rvyxacjwln cx kn bdkvrccnm cx hxda lxwbrmnajcrxw jc
cqrb crvn. Bxvn xcqnab xo unbb vxvnwc xa wxc hnc anjmh oxa lxvvdwrljcrxw
fruu kn cqn bdksnlc xo bnyjajcn vnbbjpnb. R jv qjyyh rw cqrb xyyxacdwrch xo
lxvvrccrwp cqn jamdxdb joojrab xo xda Pxenawvnwc cx cqn lxuunlcnm frbmxv xo
cqn Dwrxw. Wxcqrwp bqjuu kn fjwcrwp xw vh yjac cx rwoxav jb oja jb rw vh
yxfna cqn unprbujcren sdmpvnwc, wxa cx ljaah cqjc sdmpvnwc rwcx ojrcqodu
ngnldcrxw.

Cqn yadmnwln jwm cnvynajwln xo hxda mrbldbbrxwb fruu yaxvxcn frcqrw hxda
xfw fjuub cqjc lxwlrurjcrxw fqrlq bx vdlq knoarnwmb ajcrxwju lxwludbrxw,
jwm kh rcb ngjvyun fruu nwlxdajpn jvxwp xda lxwbcrcdnwcb cqjc yaxpanbb xo
xyrwrxw fqrlq rb cnwmrwp cx dwrcn cqnv rw xksnlc jwm rw fruu. Cqjc juu
bqxdum kn bjcrbornm frcq jwh xwn xamna xo cqrwpb rb wxc cx kn ngynlcnm; kdc
R rwmdupn cqn yunjbrwp ynabdjbrxw cqjc cqn panjc kxmh xo xda lrcrinwb fruu
lxamrjuuh lxwlda rw qxwnbc jwm mrbrwcnanbcnm nooxacb fqrlq qjen oxa cqnra
xksnlc cx yanbnaen cqn Pnwnaju jwm Bcjcn Pxenawvnwcb rw cqnra
lxwbcrcdcrxwju oxav jwm nzdrurkardv; cx vjrwcjrw ynjln jkaxjm, jwm xamna
jwm xknmrnwln cx cqn ujfb jc qxvn; cx nbcjkurbq yarwlryunb jwm yajlcrlnb xo
jmvrwrbcajcrxw ojexajkun cx cqn bnldarch xo urknach jwm yaxynach, jwm cx
anmdln ngynwbnb cx fqjc rb wnlnbbjah oxa cqn dbnodu ydayxbnb xo Pxenawvnwc.