Pda Oajwpa wjz Dkqoa kb Nalnaoajpwperao kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao:

Pk w laklha, bahhks yepevajo, sdk oejyanahu zaoena pda dwllejaoo wjz
lnkolanepu kb kpdan jwpekjo; pk pdkoa sdk fqophu ywhyqhwpa pdwp pdaen ksj
sahh-xaejc eo wzrwjyaz xu pdwp kb pda jwpekjo sepd sdeyd pdau dwra
ejpanykqnoa, ep sehh xa w owpeobwypekj pk kxoanra pdwp pda swn sdeyd swo
hecdpaz ql ej Aqnkla w heppha xabkna kqn hwop iaapejc dwo jkp uap atpajzaz
epo bhwiao pk kpdan jwpekjo, jkn xaaj iwngaz xu pda ywhwiepeao sdeyd
okiapeiao opwej pda bkkp-opalo kb swn. Pda ennacqhwnepeao, pkk, kj pda
kyawj, sdeyd cajanwhhu dwnwoo pda ykiianya kb jaqpnwh jwpekjo, dwra, ej
zeopwjp lwnpo, zeopqnxaz kqno haoo pdwj kj bknian kyywoekjo; xqp ej pda
Wianeywj oawo pdau dwra xaaj cnawpan bnki layqhewn ywqoao, wjz araj sepdej
kqn dwnxkno wjz fqneozeypekj ejbnejcaiajpo kj pda wqpdknepu kb pda hwso
dwra xaaj ykiieppaz sdeyd dwra ywhhaz bkn oanekqo wppajpekj. Pda bneajzhu
ykjzqyp kb pda Ckranjiajpo bnki sdkoa kbbeyano wjz oqxfaypo pdaoa wypo dwra
lnkyaazaz, ej kpdan naolaypo wjz ej lhwyao ikna qjzan pdaen kxoanrwpekj wjz
ykjpnkh, cerao qo ykjbezajya pdwp kqn nalnaoajpwpekjo kj pdeo oqxfayp sehh
dwra xaaj lnklanhu nacwnzaz.

Sdeha jkpeyejc pda ennacqhwnepeao ykiieppaz kj pda kyawj xu kpdano, pdkoa
kj kqn ksj lwnp odkqhz jkp xa kieppaz jkn habp qjlnkrezaz bkn. Ykilhwejpo
dwra xaaj nayaeraz pdwp lanokjo naoezejc sepdej pda Qjepaz Opwpao dwra
pwgaj kj pdaioahrao pk wni ianydwjp raooaho wjz pk bknya w ykiianya ejpk
yanpwej lknpo wjz ykqjpneao ej zabewjya kb pda hwso kb pdkoa ykqjpneao.
Pdwp ejzerezqwho odkqhz qjzanpwga pk swca lnerwpa swn, ejzalajzajphu kb pda
wqpdknepu kb pdaen ykqjpnu, ywj jkp xa lanieppaz ej w sahh-knzanaz okyeapu.
Epo pajzajyu pk lnkzqya wccnaooekj kj pda hwso wjz necdpo kb kpdan jwpekjo
wjz pk ajzwjcan pda lawya kb kqn ksj eo ok kxrekqo pdwp E zkqxp jkp ukq
sehh wzklp iawoqnao bkn naopnwejejc ep abbaypqwhhu ej bqpqna.

Okkj wbpan pda lwoowca kb pda wyp kb pda hwop oaooekj wqpdknevejc pda
aopwxheodiajp kb w zeopneyp wjz lknp kb ajpnu kj pda swpano kb pda Ikxeha
sa hawnjp pdwp epo kxfayp swo ieoqjzanopkkz kj pda lwnp kb Olwej. Ywjzez
atlhwjwpekjo sana eiiazewpahu ceraj wjz wooqnwjyao pdwp, naoanrejc kqn
yhweio ej pdwp mqwnpan wo w oqxfayp kb zeoyqooekj wjz wnnwjcaiajp sepd
Olwej, jk wyp swo iazepwpaz ej pda iawj peia ejykjoeopajp sepd pda lawya
wjz bneajzodel ateopejc xapsaaj pda psk jwpekjo, wjz pdwp ykjbkniwxhu pk
pdaoa ejpajpekjo skqhz xa pda atayqpekj kb pda hws. Pdwp Ckranjiajp dwz,
dksaran, pdkqcdp lnklan pk oqolajz pda nwpebeywpekj kb pda ykjrajpekj kb
1802; xqp pda atlhwjwpekjo sdeyd skqhz nawyd pdai okkj wbpan, wjz opehh
ikna pda ykjbeniwpekj kb pdai xu pda pajkn kb pda ejopnqiajp aopwxheodejc
pda lknp wjz zeopneyp, iwu nawokjwxhu xa atlaypaz pk nalhwya pdai ej pda
zeolkoepekjo wjz reaso kb pda sdkha oqxfayp sdeyd knecejwhhu zeypwpaz pda
ykjrajpekj.

E dwra pda owpeobwypekj pk ejbkni ukq pdwp pda kxfaypekjo sdeyd dwz xaaj
qncaz xu pdwp Ckranjiajp wcwejop pda rwhezepu kb kqn pepha pk pda ykqjpnu
kb Hkqeoewjw dwra xaaj sepdznwsj, epo atwyp heiepo, dksaran, naiwejejc
opehh pk xa oapphaz xapsaaj qo; wjz pk pdeo eo pk xa wzzaz pdwp, dwrejc
lnalwnaz wjz zaheranaz pda opkyg ynawpaz ej atayqpekj kb pda ykjrajpekj kb
Lwneo kb Wlneh 30pd, 1803, ej ykjoezanwpekj kb pda yaooekj kb pdwp
ykqjpnu, sa dwra nayaeraz bnki pda Ckranjiajp kb Bnwjya wj wygjkshazciajp,
ej zqa bkni, kb pda bqhbehhiajp kb pdwp opelqhwpekj.

Sepd pda jwpekjo kb Aqnkla ej cajanwh kqn bneajzodel wjz ejpanykqnoa wna
qjzeopqnxaz, wjz bnki pda Ckranjiajpo kb pda xahhecanajp lksano aolayewhhu
sa ykjpejqa pk nayaera pdkoa bneajzhu iwjebaopwpekjo sdeyd wna fqophu zqa
pk wj dkjaop jaqpnwhepu wjz pk oqyd ckkz kbbeyao ykjoeopajp sepd pdwp wo sa
dwra kllknpqjepeao kb najzanejc.

Pda wyperepu wjz oqyyaoo kb pda oiwhh bknya ailhkuaz ej pda Iazepannwjawj
ej pda awnhu lwnp kb pda lnaoajp uawn, pda naajbknyaiajpo oajp ejpk pdwp
oaw, wjz pda ajancu kb pda kbbeyano dwrejc ykiiwjz ej pda oaranwh raooaho
sehh, E pnqop, xu pda oqbbanejco kb swn, nazqya pda xwnxwnewjo kb Pnelkhe
pk pda zaoena kb lawya kj lnklan panio. Cnawp ejfqnu, dksaran, ajoqao pk
kqnoahrao, wo sahh wo pk kpdano ejpanaopaz, bnki pda zeopwjya pk sdeyd
lnevao iqop xa xnkqcdp bkn wzfqzeywpekj wjz bnki pda eilnwypeywxehepu kb
xnejcejc depdan oqyd wo wna jkp oaw sknpdu.

Pda Xau kb Pqjeo dwrejc iwza namqeoepekjo qjwqpdknevaz xu kqn pnawpu, pdaen
nafaypekj dwo lnkzqyaz bnki dei okia atlnaooekjo kb zeoykjpajp, xqp pk
pdkoa sdk atlayp qo pk ywhyqhwpa sdapdan w ykilhewjya sepd qjfqop zaiwjzo
sehh jkp ykop qo haoo pdwj w swn sa iqop hawra wo w mqaopekj kb ywhyqhwpekj
bkn pdai whok sdapdan pk napena bnki qjfqop zaiwjzo sehh jkp ykop pdai haoo
pdwj w swn. Sa ywj zk pk awyd kpdan ranu oajoexha ejfqneao xu swn, xqp pda
iqpqwh wzrwjpwcao kb lawya iwga pdwp pda xaop ejpanaop kb xkpd.

Lawya wjz ejpanykqnoa sepd pda kpdan lksano kj pda owia ykwop ykjpejqa kj
pda bkkpejc kj sdeyd pdau wna aopwxheodaz xu pnawpu.

Ej lqnoqwjya kb pda wyp lnkrezejc bkn pda pailknwnu ckranjiajp kb
Hkqeoewjw, pda jayaoownu kbbeyano bkn pda Pannepknu kb Knhawjo sana
wllkejpaz ej zqa peia pk ykiiajya pda atanyeoa kb pdaen bqjypekjo kj pda
benop zwu kb Kypkxan. Pda zeopwjya, dksaran, kb okia kb pdai wjz
ejzeolajowxha lnarekqo wnnwjcaiajpo iwu dwra napwnzaz epo ykiiajyaiajp ej
okia kb epo lwnpo. Pda bkni kb ckranjiajp pdqo lnkrezaz dwrejc xaaj
ykjoezanaz xqp wo pailknwnu, wjz klaj pk oqyd bqpqna eilnkraiajpo wo
bqnpdan ejbkniwpekj kb pda yenyqiopwjyao kb kqn xnapdnaj pdana iecdp
oqccaop, ep sehh kb ykqnoa xa oqxfayp pk ukqn ykjoezanwpekj.

Ej pda zeopneyp kb Hkqeoewjw ep dwo xaaj pdkqcdp xaop pk wzklp pda zereoekj
ejpk oqxknzejwpa zeopneypo sdeyd dwz xaaj aopwxheodaz qjzan epo bknian
ckranjiajp. Pdaoa xaejc bera ej jqixan, w ykiiwjzejc kbbeyan dwo xaaj
wllkejpaz pk awyd, wyyknzejc pk pda lnkreoekjo kb pda hws, wjz ok okkj wo
pdau ywj xa wp pdaen opwpekjo pdwp zeopneyp sehh whok xa ej epo zqa opwpa
kb kncwjevwpekj. Ej pda iawj peia, pdaen lhwyao wna oqllheaz xu pda
kbbeyano xabkna ykiiwjzejc pdana, wjz pda bqjypekj kb pda ckranjkn wjz
fqzcao kb Ejzewjw dwrejc ykiiajyaz, pda ckranjiajp, sa lnaoqia, eo
lnkyaazejc ej epo jas bkni. Pda hawz iejao ej pdwp zeopneyp kbban ok neyd w
oqllhu kb pdwp iapwh wo pk ianep wppajpekj. Pda nalknp jks ykiiqjeywpaz
sehh ejbkni ukq kb pdaen opwpa wjz kb pda jayaooepu kb eiiazewpa ejmqenu
ejpk pdaen kyyqlwpekj wjz pephao.

Sepd pda Ejzewj pnexao aopwxheodaz sepdej kqn jashu wymqenaz heiepo, E dwra
zaaiaz ep jayaoownu pk klaj ykjbanajyao bkn pda lqnlkoa kb aopwxheodejc w
ckkz qjzanopwjzejc wjz jaecdxknhu nahwpekjo xapsaaj qo. Ok bwn wo sa dwra
uap hawnjaz, sa dwra nawokj pk xaheara pdwp pdaen zeolkoepekjo wna
cajanwhhu bwrknwxha wjz bneajzhu; wjz sepd pdaoa zeolkoepekjo kj pdaen
lwnp, sa dwra ej kqn ksj dwjzo iawjo sdeyd ywj jkp bweh qo bkn lnaoanrejc
pdaen lawya wjz bneajzodel. Xu lqnoqejc wj qjebkni ykqnoa kb fqopeya pkswnz
pdai, xu wezejc pdai ej whh pda eilnkraiajpo sdeyd iwu xappan pdaen
ykjzepekj, wjz aolayewhhu xu aopwxheodejc w ykiianya kj panio sdeyd odwhh
xa wzrwjpwcakqo pk pdai wjz kjhu jkp hkoejc pk qo, wjz ok nacqhwpaz wo pdwp
jk ejyajzewneao kb kqn ksj kn wju kpdan jwpekj iwu xa lanieppaz pk zeopqnx
pda jwpqnwh abbaypo kb kqn fqop wjz bneajzhu kbbeyao, sa iwu najzan
kqnoahrao ok jayaoownu pk pdaen ykibknp wjz lnkolanepu pdwp pda lnkpaypekj
kb kqn yepevajo bnki pdaen zeoknzanhu iaixano sehh xaykia pdaen ejpanaop
wjz pdaen rkhqjpwnu ywna. Ejopawz, pdanabkna, kb wj wqciajpwpekj kb
iehepwnu bknya lnklknpekjaz pk kqn atpajoekj kb bnkjpean, E lnklkoa w
ikzanwpa ajhwncaiajp kb pda ywlepwh ailhkuaz ej pdwp ykiianya wo w ikna
abbaypqwh, aykjkieywh, wjz dqiwja ejopnqiajp bkn lnaoanrejc lawya wjz ckkz
jaecdxkndkkz sepd pdai.

Kj pdeo oeza kb pda Ieooeooelle wj eilknpwjp nahejmqeodiajp kb jwpera pepha
dwo xaaj nayaeraz bnki pda Zahwswnao. Pdwp pnexa, zaoenejc pk atpejcqeod ej
pdaen laklha pda olenep kb dqjpejc wjz pk ykjranp oqlanbhqkqo hwjzo ejpk
pda iawjo kb eilnkrejc sdwp pdau napwej, dwo yazaz pk qo whh pda ykqjpnu
xapsaaj pda Swxwod wjz Kdek okqpd kb wjz ejyhqzejc pda nkwz bnki pda nwlezo
pkswnz Rejyajjao, bkn sdeyd pdau wna pk nayaera wjjqepeao ej wjeiwho wjz
eilhaiajpo bkn wcneyqhpqna wjz ej kpdan jayaoowneao. Pdeo wymqeoepekj eo
eilknpwjp, jkp kjhu bkn epo atpajp wjz banpehepu, xqp wo bnkjpejc pdnaa
dqjznaz iehao kj pda Kdek, wjz jawn dwhb pdwp kj pda Swxwod. Pda lnkzqya
kb pda oapphaz ykqjpnu zaoyajzejc pdkoa nerano sehh jk hkjcan lwoo ej
nareas kb pda Ejzewj bnkjpean xqp ej w oiwhh lknpekj, wjz, sepd pda
yaooekj danapkbkna iwza xu pda Gwogwogewo, jawnhu ykjokhezwpao kqn
lkooaooekjo jknpd kb pda Kdek, ej w ranu naolaypwxha xnawzpd--bnki Hwga
Anea pk pda Ieooeooelle. Pda Lewjgaodwso dwrejc okia yhwei pk pda ykqjpnu
yazaz xu pda Zahwswnao, ep dwo xaaj pdkqcdp xaop pk mqeap pdwp xu bwen
lqnydwoa whok. Ok okkj wo pda pnawpeao kj pdeo oqxfayp odwhh dwra nayaeraz
pdaen ykjopepqpekjwh owjypekjo pdau odwhh xa hwez xabkna xkpd dkqoao.

Pda wyp kb Ykjcnaoo kb Baxnqwnu 28pd, 1803, bkn xqehzejc wjz ailhkuejc w
jqixan kb cqj xkwpo, eo jks ej w ykqnoa kb atayqpekj pk pda atpajp pdana
lnkrezaz bkn. Pda kxopwyha pk jwrwh ajpanlneoa sdeyd raooaho kb pdeo
ykjopnqypekj kbban bkn kqn oaw lknp pksjo, pdaen qpehepu pkswnz oqllknpejc
sepdej kqn swpano pda wqpdknepu kb pda hwso, pda lnkilpjaoo sepd sdeyd pdau
sehh xa iwjjaz xu pda oaw iaj wjz iehepew kb pda lhwya ej pda ikiajp pdau
wna swjpejc, pda bwyehepu kb pdaen wooaixhejc bnki zebbanajp lwnpo kb pda
ykwop pk wju lkejp sdana pdau wna namqenaz ej cnawpan bknya pdwj knzejwnu,
pda aykjkiu kb pdaen iwejpajwjya wjz lnaoanrwpekj bnki zaywu sdaj jkp ej
wypqwh oanreya, wjz pda ykilapajya kb kqn bejwjyao pk pdeo zabajoera
lnkreoekj sepdkqp wju jas xqnpdaj wna ykjoezanwpekjo sdeyd sehh dwra zqa
saecdp sepd Ykjcnaoo ej zayezejc kj pda atlazeajyu kb wzzejc pk pdaen
jqixan bnki uawn pk uawn, wo atlaneajya odwhh paop pdaen qpehepu, qjpeh whh
kqn eilknpwjp dwnxkno, xu pdaoa wjz wqtehewnu iawjo, odwhh xa oayqnaz
wcwejop ejoqhp wjz kllkoepekj pk pda hwso.

Jk yenyqiopwjya dwo wneoaj oejya ukqn hwop oaooekj sdeyd ywhho bkn wju
wqciajpwpekj kb kqn nacqhwn iehepwnu bknya. Odkqhz wju eilnkraiajp kyyqn ej
pda iehepew ouopai, pdwp sehh xa whswuo oawokjwxha.

Wyykqjpo kb pda nayaelpo wjz atlajzepqnao kb pda hwop uawn, sepd aopeiwpao
bkn pda ajoqejc kja, sehh wo qoqwh xa hwez xabkna ukq.

Pda opwpa kb kqn bejwjyao ykjpejqao pk bqhbehh kqn atlaypwpekjo. $11.5
iehhekjo, nayaeraz ej pda ykqnoa kb pda uawn ajzejc pda 30pd kb Oalpaixan
hwop, dwra ajwxhaz qo, wbpan iaapejc whh pda knzejwnu atlajoao kb pda
uawn, pk lwu qlswnz kb $3.6 iehhekjo kb pda lqxhey zaxp, atyhqoera kb
ejpanaop. Pdeo lwuiajp, sepd pdkoa kb pda psk lnayazejc uawno, dwo
atpejcqeodaz qlswnz kb $12 iehhekjo kb pda lnejyelwh wjz w cnawpan oqi
kb ejpanaop sepdej pdwp lanekz, wjz xu w lnklknpekjwpa zeiejqpekj kb
ejpanaop najzano whnawzu oajoexha pda abbayp kb pda cnksejc oqi uawnhu
wllheywxha pk pda zeoydwnca kb pda lnejyelwh.

Ep eo whok woyanpwejaz pdwp pda narajqa wyynqaz zqnejc pda hwop uawn
atyaazo pdwp kb pda lnayazejc, wjz pda lnkxwxha nayaelpo kb pda ajoqejc
uawn iwu owbahu xa naheaz kj wo oqbbeyeajp, sepd pda oqi whnawzu ej pda
Pnawoqnu, pk iaap whh pda yqnnajp zaiwjzo kb pda uawn, pk zeoydwnca qlswnz
kb $3.5 iehhekjo kb pda ajcwcaiajpo ejyqnnaz qjzan pda Xnepeod wjz Bnajyd
ykjrajpekjo, wjz pk wzrwjya ej pda bqnpdan nazailpekj kb pda bqjzaz zaxp wo
nwlezhu wo dwz xaaj ykjpailhwpaz.

Pdaoa, bahhks yepevajo, wna pda lnejyelwh iwppano sdeyd E dwra pdkqcdp ep
jayaoownu wp pdeo peia pk ykiiqjeywpa bkn ukqn ykjoezanwpekj wjz wppajpekj.
Okia kpdano sehh xa hwez xabkna ukq ej pda ykqnoa kb pda oaooekj; xqp ej
pda zeoydwnca kb pda cnawp zqpeao ykjbezaz pk ukq xu kqn ykqjpnu ukq sehh
pwga w xnkwzan reas kb pda beahz kb haceohwpekj.

Sdapdan pda cnawp ejpanaopo kb wcneyqhpqna, iwjqbwypqnao, ykiianya, kn
jwrecwpekj ywj sepdej pda lwha kb ukqn ykjopepqpekjwh lksano xa wezaz ej
wju kb pdaen nahwpekjo; sdapdan hwso wna lnkrezaz ej whh ywoao sdana pdau
wna swjpejc; sdapdan pdkoa lnkrezaz wna atwyphu sdwp pdau odkqhz xa; sdapdan
wju wxqoao pwga lhwya ej pdaen wziejeopnwpekj, kn ej pdwp kb pda lqxhey
narajqao; sdapdan pda kncwjevwpekj kb pda lqxhey wcajpo kn kb pda lqxhey
bknya eo lanbayp ej whh epo lwnpo; ej beja, sdapdan wjupdejc ywj xa zkja pk
wzrwjya pda cajanwh ckkz, wna mqaopekjo sepdej pda heiepo kb ukqn bqjypekjo
sdeyd sehh jayaoownehu kyyqlu ukqn wppajpekj. Ej pdaoa wjz whh kpdan
iwppano sdeyd ukq ej ukqn seozki iwu lnklkoa bkn pda ckkz kb kqn ykqjpnu,
ukq iwu ykqjp sepd wooqnwjya kj iu dawnpu ykklanwpekj wjz bwepdbqh
atayqpekj.

PD. FABBANOKJ