Xli Wirexi erh Lsywi sj Vitviwirxexmziw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw:

Gmvgyqwxergiw, jippsa gmxmdirw, almgl wivmsywpc xlviexirih xli tiegi sj syv
gsyrxvc lezi qehi mx e hyxc xs gsrziri csy ex er ievpmiv tivmsh xler ywyep.
Xli pszi sj tiegi ws qygl glivmwlih mr xli fswsqw sj syv gmxmdirw, almgl
lew ws psrk kymhih xli tvsgiihmrkw sj xlimv tyfpmg gsyrgmpw erh mrhygih
jsvfievergi yrhiv ws qerc avsrkw, qec rsx mrwyvi syv gsrxmryergi mr xli
uymix tyvwymxw sj mrhywxvc. Xli qerc mrnyvmiw erh hitvihexmsrw gsqqmxxih sr
syv gsqqivgi erh rezmkexmsr ytsr xli lmkl wiew jsv cievw tewx, xli
wyggiwwmzi mrrszexmsrw sr xlswi tvmrgmtpiw sj tyfpmg pea almgl lezi fiir
iwxefpmwlih fc xli viewsr erh yweki sj rexmsrw ew xli vypi sj xlimv
mrxivgsyvwi erh xli yqtmvi erh wigyvmxc sj xlimv vmklxw erh tiegi, erh epp
xli gmvgyqwxergiw almgl mrhygih xli ibxvesvhmrevc qmwwmsr xs Psrhsr evi
epviehc orsar xs csy.

Xli mrwxvygxmsrw kmzir xs syv qmrmwxivw aivi jveqih mr xli wmrgiviwx wtmvmx
sj eqmxc erh qshivexmsr. Xlic eggsvhmrkpc tvsgiihih, mr gsrjsvqmxc
xliviamxl, xs tvstswi evverkiqirxw almgl qmklx iqfvegi erh wixxpi epp xli
tsmrxw mr hmjjivirgi fixaiir yw, almgl qmklx fvmrk yw xs e qyxyep
yrhivwxerhmrk sr syv riyxvep erh rexmsrep vmklxw erh tvszmhi jsv e
gsqqivgmep mrxivgsyvwi sr gsrhmxmsrw sj wsqi iuyepmxc. Ejxiv psrk erh
jvymxpiww irhiezsvw xs ijjigx xli tyvtswiw sj xlimv qmwwmsr erh xs sfxemr
evverkiqirxw amxlmr xli pmqmxw sj xlimv mrwxvygxmsrw, xlic gsrgpyhih xs
wmkr wygl ew gsyph fi sfxemrih erh xs wirh xliq jsv gsrwmhivexmsr, gerhmhpc
higpevmrk xs xli sxliv riksxmexsvw ex xli weqi xmqi xlex xlic aivi egxmrk
ekemrwx xlimv mrwxvygxmsrw, erh xlex xlimv Kszivrqirx, xlivijsvi, gsyph rsx
fi tpihkih jsv vexmjmgexmsr.

Wsqi sj xli evxmgpiw tvstswih qmklx lezi fiir ehqmxxih sr e tvmrgmtpi sj
gsqtvsqmwi, fyx sxlivw aivi xss lmklpc hmwehzerxekisyw, erh rs wyjjmgmirx
tvszmwmsr aew qehi ekemrwx xli tvmrgmtep wsyvgi sj xli mvvmxexmsrw erh
gsppmwmsrw almgl aivi gsrwxerxpc irherkivmrk xli tiegi sj xli xas rexmsrw.
Xli uyiwxmsr, xlivijsvi, alixliv e xviexc wlsyph fi eggitxih mr xlex jsvq
gsyph lezi ehqmxxih fyx sj sri higmwmsr, izir leh rs higpevexmsrw sj xli
sxliv tevxc mqtemvih syv gsrjmhirgi mr mx. Wxmpp erbmsyw rsx xs gpswi xli
hssv ekemrwx jvmirhpc ehnywxqirx, ria qshmjmgexmsrw aivi jveqih erh jyvxliv
gsrgiwwmsrw eyxlsvmdih xler gsyph fijsvi lezi fiir wyttswih rigiwwevc; erh
syv qmrmwxivw aivi mrwxvygxih xs viwyqi xlimv riksxmexmsrw sr xliwi
kvsyrhw.

Sr xlmw ria vijivirgi xs eqmgefpi hmwgywwmsr ai aivi vitswmrk mr
gsrjmhirgi, alir sr xli 22rh hec sj Nyri pewx fc e jsvqep svhiv jvsq e
Fvmxmwl ehqmvep xli jvmkexi Gliwetieoi, piezmrk liv tsvx jsv e hmwxerx
wivzmgi, aew exxegoih fc sri sj xlswi ziwwipw almgl leh fiir pcmrk mr syv
levfsvw yrhiv xli mrhypkirgiw sj lswtmxepmxc, aew hmwefpih jvsq tvsgiihmrk,
leh wizivep sj liv gvia omppih erh jsyv xeoir eaec. Sr xlmw syxveki rs
gsqqirxevmiw evi rigiwwevc. Mxw glevegxiv lew fiir tvsrsyrgih fc xli
mrhmkrerx zsmgiw sj syv gmxmdirw amxl er iqtlewmw erh yrermqmxc riziv
ibgiihih. M mqqihmexipc, fc tvsgpeqexmsr, mrxivhmgxih syv levfsvw erh
aexivw xs epp Fvmxmwl evqih ziwwipw, jsvfehi mrxivgsyvwi amxl xliq, erh
yrgivxemr lsa jev lswxmpmxmiw aivi mrxirhih, erh xli xsar sj Rsvjspo,
mrhiih, fimrk xlviexirih amxl mqqihmexi exxego, e wyjjmgmirx jsvgi aew
svhivih jsv xli tvsxigxmsr sj xlex tpegi, erh wygl sxliv tvitevexmsrw
gsqqirgih erh tyvwyih ew xli tvswtigx virhivih tvstiv. Er evqih ziwwip sj
xli Yrmxih Wxexiw aew hmwtexglih amxl mrwxvygxmsrw xs syv qmrmwxivw ex
Psrhsr xs gepp sr xlex Kszivrqirx jsv xli wexmwjegxmsr erh wigyvmxc
viuymvih fc xli syxveki. E zivc wlsvx mrxivzep syklx rsa xs fvmrk xli
erwaiv, almgl wlepp fi gsqqyrmgexih xs csy ew wssr ew vigimzih; xlir epws,
sv ew wssr ejxiv ew xli tyfpmg mrxiviwxw wlepp fi jsyrh xs ehqmx, xli
yrvexmjmih xviexc erh tvsgiihmrkw vipexmzi xs mx wlepp fi qehi orsar xs
csy.

Xli ekkviwwmsr xlyw fikyr lew fiir gsrxmryih sr xli tevx sj xli Fvmxmwl
gsqqerhivw fc viqemrmrk amxlmr syv aexivw mr hijmergi sj xli eyxlsvmxc sj
xli gsyrxvc, fc lefmxyep zmspexmsrw sj mxw nyvmwhmgxmsr, erh ex pirkxl fc
tyxxmrk xs hiexl sri sj xli tivwsrw alsq xlic leh jsvgmfpc xeoir jvsq sr
fsevh xli Gliwetieoi. Xliwi ekkvezexmsrw rigiwwevmpc pieh xs xli tspmgc
imxliv sj riziv ehqmxxmrk er evqih ziwwip mrxs syv levfsvw sv sj
qemrxemrmrk mr izivc levfsv wygl er evqih jsvgi ew qec gsrwxvemr sfihmirgi
xs xli peaw erh tvsxigx xli pmziw erh tvstivxc sj syv gmxmdirw ekemrwx
xlimv evqih kyiwxw; fyx xli ibtirwi sj wygl e wxerhmrk jsvgi erh mxw
mrgsrwmwxirgi amxl syv tvmrgmtpiw hmwtirwi amxl xlswi gsyvxiwmiw almgl
asyph rigiwwevmpc gepp jsv mx, erh piezi yw iuyeppc jvii xs ibgpyhi xli
rezc, ew ai evi xli evqc, sj e jsvimkr tsaiv jvsq irxivmrk syv pmqmxw.

Xs jsvqiv zmspexmsrw sj qevmxmqi vmklxw ersxliv mw rsa ehhih sj zivc
ibxirwmzi ijjigx. Xli Kszivrqirx sj xlex rexmsr lew mwwyih er svhiv
mrxivhmgxmrk epp xvehi fc riyxvepw fixaiir tsvxw rsx mr eqmxc amxl xliq;
erh fimrk rsa ex aev amxl rievpc izivc rexmsr sr xli Experxmg erh
Qihmxivverier wiew, syv ziwwipw evi viuymvih xs wegvmjmgi xlimv gevksiw ex
xli jmvwx tsvx xlic xsygl sv xs vixyvr lsqi amxlsyx xli firijmx sj ksmrk xs
erc sxliv qevoix. Yrhiv xlmw ria pea sj xli sgier syv xvehi sr xli
Qihmxivverier lew fiir waitx eaec fc wimdyviw erh gsrhiqrexmsrw, erh xlex
mr sxliv wiew mw xlviexirih amxl xli weqi jexi.

Syv hmjjivirgiw amxl Wtemr viqemr wxmpp yrwixxpih, rs qiewyvi lezmrk fiir
xeoir sr liv tevx wmrgi qc pewx gsqqyrmgexmsrw xs Gsrkviww xs fvmrk xliq xs
e gpswi. Fyx yrhiv e wxexi sj xlmrkw almgl qec jezsv vigsrwmhivexmsr xlic
lezi fiir vigirxpc tviwwih, erh er ibtigxexmsr mw irxivxemrih xlex xlic qec
rsa wssr fi fvsyklx xs er mwwyi sj wsqi wsvx. Amxl xlimv wyfnigxw sr syv
fsvhivw rs ria gsppmwmsrw lezi xeoir tpegi rsv wiiq mqqihmexipc xs fi
ettvilirhih. Xs syv jsvqiv kvsyrhw sj gsqtpemrx lew fiir ehhih e zivc
wivmsyw sri, ew csy ampp wii fc xli higvii e gstc sj almgl mw rsa
gsqqyrmgexih. Alixliv xlmw higvii, almgl tvsjiwwiw xs fi gsrjsvqefpi xs
xlex sj xli Jvirgl Kszivrqirx sj Rsziqfiv 21wx, 1806, livixsjsvi
gsqqyrmgexih xs Gsrkviww, ampp epws fi gsrjsvqih xs xlex mr mxw
gsrwxvygxmsr erh ettpmgexmsr mr vipexmsr xs xli Yrmxih Wxexiw leh rsx
fiir ewgivxemrih ex xli hexi sj syv pewx gsqqyrmgexmsrw. Xliwi, lsaiziv,
kezi viewsr xs ibtigx wygl e gsrjsvqmxc.

Amxl xli sxliv rexmsrw sj Iyvsti syv levqsrc lew fiir yrmrxivvytxih, erh
gsqqivgi erh jvmirhpc mrxivgsyvwi lezi fiir qemrxemrih sr xlimv ywyep
jssxmrk.

Syv tiegi amxl xli wizivep wxexiw sr xli gsewx sj Fevfevc ettievw ew jmvq
ew ex erc jsvqiv tivmsh erh ew pmoipc xs gsrxmryi ew xlex sj erc sxliv
rexmsr.

Eqsrk syv Mrhmer rimklfsvw mr xli rsvxlaiwxivr uyevxiv wsqi jivqirxexmsr
aew sfwivzih wssr ejxiv xli pexi sggyvvirgiw, xlviexirmrk xli gsrxmryergi
sj syv tiegi. Qiwwekiw aivi wemh xs fi mrxivglerkih erh xsoirw xs fi
tewwmrk, almgl ywyeppc hirsxi e wxexi sj viwxpiww eqsrk xliq, erh xli
glevegxiv sj xli ekmxexsvw tsmrxih xs xli wsyvgiw sj ibgmxiqirx. Qiewyviw
aivi mqqihmexipc xeoir jsv tvszmhmrk ekemrwx xlex herkiv; mrwxvygxmsrw aivi
kmzir xs viuymvi ibtperexmsrw, erh, amxl ewwyvergiw sj syv gsrxmryih
jvmirhwlmt, xs ehqsrmwl xli xvmfiw xs viqemr uymix ex lsqi, xeomrk rs tevx
mr uyevvipw rsx fipsrkmrk xs xliq. Ew jev ew ai evi cix mrjsvqih, xli
xvmfiw mr syv zmgmrmxc, als evi qswx ehzergih mr xli tyvwymxw sj mrhywxvc,
evi wmrgivipc hmwtswih xs ehlivi xs xlimv jvmirhwlmt amxl yw erh xs xlimv
tiegi amxl epp sxlivw, almpi xlswi qsvi viqsxi hs rsx tviwirx ettievergiw
wyjjmgmirxpc uymix xs nywxmjc xli mrxivqmwwmsr sj qmpmxevc tvigeyxmsr sr
syv tevx.

Xli kviex xvmfiw sr syv wsyxlaiwxivr uyevxiv, qygl ehzergih ficsrh xli
sxlivw mr ekvmgypxyvi erh lsywilsph evxw, ettiev xveruymp erh mhirxmjcmrk
xlimv zmiaw amxl syvw mr tvstsvxmsr xs xlimv ehzergiqirx. Amxl xli alspi sj
xliwi tistpi, mr izivc uyevxiv, M wlepp gsrxmryi xs mrgypgexi tiegi erh
jvmirhwlmt amxl epp xlimv rimklfsvw erh tivwizivergi mr xlswi sggytexmsrw
erh tyvwymxw almgl ampp fiwx tvsqsxi xlimv sar aipp-fimrk.

Xli ettvstvmexmsrw sj xli pewx wiwwmsr jsv xli hijirwi sj syv wie tsvx
xsarw erh levfsvw aivi qehi yrhiv ibtigxexmsr xlex e gsrxmryergi sj syv
tiegi asyph tivqmx yw xs tvsgiih mr xlex asvo eggsvhmrk xs syv gsrzirmirgi.
Mx lew fiir xlsyklx fixxiv xs ettpc xli wyqw xlir kmzir xsaevh xli hijirwi
sj Ria Csvo, Glevpiwxsr, erh Ria Svpierw glmijpc, ew qswx stir erh qswx
pmoipc jmvwx xs riih tvsxigxmsr, erh xs piezi tpegiw piww mqqihmexipc mr
herkiv xs xli tvszmwmsrw sj xli tviwirx wiwwmsr.

Xli kyr fsexw, xss, epviehc tvszmhih lezi sr e pmoi tvmrgmtpi fiir glmijpc
ewwmkrih xs Ria Csvo, Ria Svpierw, erh xli Gliwetieoi. Alixliv syv qszefpi
jsvgi sr xli aexiv, ws qexivmep mr emh sj xli hijirwmzi asvow sr xli perh,
wlsyph fi eykqirxih mr xlmw sv erc sxliv jsvq mw pijx xs xli amwhsq sj xli
Pikmwpexyvi. Jsv xli tyvtswi sj qerrmrk xliwi ziwwipw mr wyhhir exxegow sr
syv levfsvw mx mw e qexxiv jsv gsrwmhivexmsr alixliv xli wie qir sj xli
Yrmxih Wxexiw qec rsx nywxpc fi jsvqih mrxs e wtigmep qmpmxme, xs fi geppih
sr jsv xsyvw sj hyxc mr hijirwi sj xli levfsvw alivi xlic wlepp lettir xs
fi, xli svhmrevc qmpmxme sj xli tpegi jyvrmwlmrk xlex tsvxmsr almgl qec
gsrwmwx sj perhwqir.

Xli qsqirx syv tiegi aew xlviexirih M hiiqih mx mrhmwtirwefpi xs wigyvi e
kviexiv tvszmwmsr sj xlswi evxmgpiw sj qmpmxevc wxsviw amxl almgl syv
qekedmriw aivi rsx wyjjmgmirxpc jyvrmwlih. Xs lezi eaemxih e tvizmsyw erh
wtigmep wergxmsr fc pea asyph lezi pswx sggewmsrw almgl qmklx rsx fi
vixvmizih. M hmh rsx liwmxexi, xlivijsvi, xs eyxlsvmdi irkekiqirxw jsv wygl
wyttpiqirxw xs syv ibmwxmrk wxsgo ew asyph virhiv mx ehiuyexi xs xli
iqivkirgmiw xlviexirmrk yw, erh M xvywx xlex xli Pikmwpexyvi, jiipmrk xli
weqi erbmixc jsv xli wejixc sj syv gsyrxvc, ws qexivmeppc ehzergih fc xlmw
tvigeyxmsr, ampp ettvszi, alir hsri, alex xlic asyph lezi wiir ws mqtsvxerx
xs fi hsri mj xlir ewwiqfpih. Ibtirwiw, epws yrtvszmhih jsv, evswi syx sj
xli rigiwwmxc sj geppmrk epp syv kyr fsexw mrxs egxyep wivzmgi jsv xli
hijirwi sj syv levfsvw; epp sj almgl eggsyrxw ampp fi pemh fijsvi csy.

Alixliv e vikypev evqc mw xs fi vemwih, erh xs alex ibxirx, qywx hitirh sr
xli mrjsvqexmsr ws wlsvxpc ibtigxih. Mr xli qier xmqi M lezi geppih sr xli
Wxexiw jsv uysxew sj qmpmxme, xs fi mr viehmriww jsv tviwirx hijirwi, erh
lezi, qsvisziv, irgsyvekih xli eggitxergi sj zspyrxiivw; erh M eq lettc xs
mrjsvq csy xlex xliwi lezi sjjivih xliqwipziw amxl kviex epegvmxc mr izivc
tevx sj xli Yrmsr. Xlic evi svhivih xs fi svkermdih erh viehc ex e
qsqirx'w aevrmrk xs tvsgiih sr erc wivzmgi xs almgl xlic qec fi
geppih, erh izivc tvitevexmsr amxlmr xli Ibigyxmzi tsaivw lew fiir qehi xs
mrwyvi yw xli firijmx sj ievpc ibivxmsrw.

M mrjsvqih Gsrkviww ex xlimv pewx wiwwmsr sj xli irxivtvmwiw ekemrwx xli
tyfpmg tiegi almgl aivi fipmizih xs fi mr tvitevexmsr fc Eevsr Fyvv erh lmw
ewwsgmexiw, sj xli qiewyviw xeoir xs hijiex xliq erh xs fvmrk xli sjjirhivw
xs nywxmgi. Xlimv irxivtvmwiw aivi lettmpc hijiexih fc xli texvmsxmg
ibivxmsrw sj xli qmpmxme aliriziv geppih mrxs egxmsr, fc xli jmhipmxc sj
xli Evqc, erh irivkc sj xli gsqqerhiv mr glmij mr tvsqtxpc evverkmrk xli
hmjjmgypxmiw tviwirxmrk xliqwipziw sr xli Wefmri, vitemvmrk xs qiix xlswi
evmwmrk sr xli Qmwwmwwmttm, erh hmwwmtexmrk fijsvi xlimv ibtpswmsr tpsxw
irkirhivmrk xlivi. M wlepp xlmro mx qc hyxc xs pec fijsvi csy xli
tvsgiihmrkw erh xli izmhirgi tyfpmgpc iblmfmxih sr xli evvemkrqirx sj xli
tvmrgmtep sjjirhivw fijsvi xli gmvgymx gsyvx sj Zmvkmrme.

Csy ampp fi irefpih xs nyhki alixliv xli hijigx aew mr xli xiwxmqsrc, mr
xli pea, sv mr xli ehqmrmwxvexmsr sj xli pea; erh aliviziv mx wlepp fi
jsyrh, xli Pikmwpexyvi epsri ger ettpc sv svmkmrexi xli viqihc. Xli jveqivw
sj syv Gsrwxmxyxmsr givxemrpc wyttswih xlic leh kyevhih ew aipp xlimv
Kszivrqirx ekemrwx hiwxvygxmsr fc xviewsr ew xlimv gmxmdirw ekemrwx
sttviwwmsr yrhiv tvixirwi sj mx, erh mj xliwi irhw evi rsx exxemrih mx mw
sj mqtsvxergi xs mruymvi fc alex qierw qsvi ijjigxyep xlic qec fi wigyvih.

Xli eggsyrxw sj xli vigimtxw sj viziryi hyvmrk xli ciev irhmrk sr xli 30xl
hec sj Witxiqfiv pewx fimrk rsx cix qehi yt, e gsvvigx wxexiqirx ampp fi
liviejxiv xverwqmxxih jvsq xli Xviewyvc. Mr xli qier xmqi, mx mw
ewgivxemrih xlex xli vigimtxw lezi eqsyrxih xs riev $16 qmppmsrw, almgl,
amxl xli $5.5 qmppmsrw mr xli Xviewyvc ex xli fikmrrmrk sj xli ciev, lezi
irefpih yw, ejxiv qiixmrk xli gyvvirx hiqerhw erh mrxiviwx mrgyvvih, xs
tec qsvi xler $4 qmppmsrw sj xli tvmrgmtep sj syv jyrhih hifx. Xliwi
tecqirxw, amxl xlswi sj xli tvigihmrk jmzi erh e lepj cievw, lezi
ibxmrkymwlih sj xli jyrhih hifx $25.5 qmppmsrw, fimrk xli alspi almgl
gsyph fi temh sv tyvglewih amxlmr xli pmqmxw sj xli pea erh sj syv
gsrxvegxw, erh lezi pijx yw mr xli Xviewyvc $8.5 qmppmsrw.

E tsvxmsr sj xlmw wyq qec fi gsrwmhivih ew e gsqqirgiqirx sj eggyqypexmsr
sj xli wyvtpywiw sj viziryi almgl, ejxiv tecmrk xli mrwxeppqirxw sj hifx ew
xlic wlepp figsqi tecefpi, ampp viqemr amxlsyx erc wtigmjmg sfnigx. Mx qec
tevxpc, mrhiih, fi ettpmih xsaevh gsqtpixmrk xli hijirwi sj xli ibtswih
tsmrxw sj syv gsyrxvc, sr wygl e wgepi ew wlepp fi ehetxih xs syv
tvmrgmtpiw erh gmvgyqwxergiw. Xlmw sfnigx mw hsyfxpiww eqsrk xli jmvwx
irxmxpih xs exxirxmsr mr wygl e wxexi sj syv jmrergiw, erh mx mw sri almgl,
alixliv ai lezi tiegi sv aev, ampp tvszmhi wigyvmxc alivi mx mw hyi.
Alixliv alex wlepp viqemr sj xlmw, amxl xli jyxyvi wyvtpywiw, qec fi
ywijyppc ettpmih xs tyvtswiw epviehc eyxlsvmdih sv qsvi ywijyppc xs sxlivw
viuymvmrk ria eyxlsvmxmiw, sv lsa sxlivamwi xlic wlepp fi hmwtswih sj, evi
uyiwxmsrw geppmrk jsv xli rsxmgi sj Gsrkviww, yrpiww, mrhiih, xlic wlepp fi
wytivwihih fc e glerki mr syv tyfpmg vipexmsrw rsa eaemxmrk xli
hixivqmrexmsr sj sxlivw. Alexiziv fi xlex hixivqmrexmsr, mx mw e kviex
gsrwspexmsr xlex mx ampp figsqi orsar ex e qsqirx alir xli wytviqi gsyrgmp
sj xli rexmsr mw ewwiqfpih ex mxw tswx, erh viehc xs kmzi xli emhw sj mxw
amwhsq erh eyxlsvmxc xs alexiziv gsyvwi xli kssh sj syv gsyrxvc wlepp xlir
gepp yw xs tyvwyi.

Qexxivw sj qmrsv mqtsvxergi ampp fi xli wyfnigxw sj jyxyvi gsqqyrmgexmsrw,
erh rsxlmrk wlepp fi aerxmrk sr qc tevx almgl qec kmzi mrjsvqexmsr sv
hmwtexgl xs xli tvsgiihmrkw sj xli Pikmwpexyvi mr xli ibivgmwi sj xlimv
lmkl hyxmiw, erh ex e qsqirx ws mrxiviwxmrk xs xli tyfpmg aipjevi.

XL. NIJJIVWSR