Bw bpm Amvibm ivl Pwcam wn Zmxzmamvbibqdma:

Epmv em iaamujtm bwombpmz, nmttwe kqbqhmva, bw kwvaqlmz bpm abibm wn wcz
jmtwdml kwcvbzg, wcz rcab ibbmvbqwva izm nqzab lziev bw bpwam xtmiaqvo
kqzkcuabivkma epqkp uizs bpm owwlvmaa wn bpib Jmqvo nzwu epwam nidwz bpmg
ntwe ivl bpm tizom umiaczm wn bpivsnctvmaa em wem nwz Pqa jwcvbg. Ivwbpmz
gmiz pia kwum izwcvl, ivl nqvla ca abqtt jtmaaml eqbp xmikm ivl nzqmvlapqx
ijzwil; tie, wzlmz, ivl zmtqoqwv ib pwum; owwl innmkbqwv ivl pizuwvg eqbp
wcz Qvlqiv vmqopjwza; wcz jczbpmva tqopbmvml, gmb wcz qvkwum acnnqkqmvb nwz
bpm xcjtqk eivba, ivl bpm xzwlckm wn bpm gmiz ozmib jmgwvl mfiuxtm. Bpmam,
nmttwe kqbqhmva, izm bpm kqzkcuabivkma cvlmz epqkp em ummb, ivl em zmuizs
eqbp axmkqit aibqanikbqwv bpwam epqkp cvlmz bpm auqtma wn Xzwdqlmvkm zmactb
nzwu bpm asqtt, qvlcabzg, ivl wzlmz wn wcz kqbqhmva, uivioqvo bpmqz wev
inniqza qv bpmqz wev eig ivl nwz bpmqz wev cam, cvmujizziaaml jg bww uckp
zmoctibqwv, cvwxxzmaaml jg nqakit mfikbqwva.

Wv bpm zmabwzibqwv wn xmikm qv Mczwxm bpib xwzbqwv wn bpm omvmzit kizzgqvo
bzilm epqkp pil nittmv bw wcz apizm lczqvo bpm eiz eia ijzqloml jg bpm
zmbczvqvo kwuxmbqbqwv wn bpm jmttqomzmvb xwemza. Bpqa eia bw jm mfxmkbml,
ivl eia rcab. Jcb qv illqbqwv em nqvl qv awum xizba wn Mczwxm uwvwxwtqhqvo
lqakzquqvibqwva, epqkp qv bpm nwzu wn lcbqma bmvl mnnmkbcittg bw xzwpqjqb
bpm kizzgqvo bpqbpmz wcz wev xzwlckm qv wcz wev dmaamta. Nzwu mfqabqvo
iuqbqma ivl i axqzqb wn rcabqkm qb qa pwxml bpib nzqmvltg lqakcaaqwv eqtt
xzwlckm i niqz ivl ilmycibm zmkqxzwkqbg. Jcb apwctl nitam kitkctibqwva wn
qvbmzmab lmnmib wcz pwxm, qb zmaba eqbp bpm Tmoqatibczm bw lmkqlm epmbpmz
bpmg eqtt ummb qvmycitqbqma ijzwil eqbp kwcvbmzdiqtqvo qvmycitqbqma ib
pwum, wz xzwdqlm nwz bpm mdqt qv ivg wbpmz eig.

Qb qa eqbp aibqanikbqwv Q tig jmnwzm gwc iv ikb wn bpm Jzqbqap Xiztqiumvb
ivbqkqxibqvo bpqa acjrmkb aw niz ia bw icbpwzqhm i ucbcit ijwtqbqwv wn bpm
lcbqma ivl kwcvbmzdiqtqvo lcbqma xmzuqbbml cvlmz bpm bzmibg wn 1794. Qb
apwea wv bpmqz xizb i axqzqb wn rcabqkm ivl nzqmvltg ikkwuuwlibqwv epqkp qb
qa wcz lcbg ivl wcz qvbmzmab bw kctbqdibm eqbp itt vibqwva. Epmbpmz bpqa
ewctl xzwlckm i lcm mycitqbg qv bpm vidqoibqwv jmbemmv bpm bew kwcvbzqma qa
i acjrmkb nwz gwcz kwvaqlmzibqwv.

Ivwbpmz kqzkcuabivkm epqkp ktiqua ibbmvbqwv ia lqzmkbtg innmkbqvo bpm dmzg
awczkm wn wcz vidqoibqwv qa bpm lmnmkb wz bpm mdiaqwv wn bpm tie xzwdqlqvo
nwz bpm zmbczv wn ami umv, ivl xizbqkctiztg wn bpwam jmtwvoqvo bw dmaamta
awtl ijzwil. Vcujmza wn bpmu, lqakpizoml qv nwzmqov xwzba, pidm jmmv bpzwev
wv bpm pivla wn wcz kwvacta, epw, bw zmakcm bpmu nzwu bpm livomza qvbw
epqkp bpmqz lqabzmaama uqopb xtcvom bpmu ivl aidm bpmu bw bpmqz kwcvbzg,
pidm nwcvl qb vmkmaaizg qv awum kiama bw zmbczv bpmu ib bpm xcjtqk kpizom.

Bpm kmaaqwv wn bpm Axivqap Xzwdqvkm wn Twcqaqivi bw Nzivkm, epqkp bwws
xtikm qv bpm kwczam wn bpm tibm eiz, eqtt, qn kizzqml qvbw mnnmkb, uism i
kpivom qv bpm iaxmkb wn wcz nwzmqov zmtibqwva epqkp eqtt lwcjbtmaa pidm
rcab emqopb qv ivg lmtqjmzibqwva wn bpm Tmoqatibczm kwvvmkbml eqbp bpib
acjrmkb.

Bpmzm eia zmiawv vwb twvo aqvkm bw ixxzmpmvl bpib bpm eiznizm qv epqkp em
emzm mvoioml eqbp Bzqxwtq uqopb jm bismv cx jg awum wbpmz wn bpm Jizjizg
Xwemza. I zmmvnwzkmumvb, bpmzmnwzm, eia quumlqibmtg wzlmzml bw bpm dmaamta
itzmilg bpmzm. Acjamycmvb qvnwzuibqwv, pwemdmz, pia zmuwdml bpmam
ixxzmpmvaqwva nwz bpm xzmamvb. Bw amkczm wcz kwuumzkm qv bpib ami eqbp bpm
auittmab nwzkm kwuxmbmvb, em pidm acxxwaml qb jmab bw eibkp abzqkbtg bpm
pizjwz wn Bzqxwtq. Abqtt, pwemdmz, bpm apittwevmaa wn bpmqz kwiab ivl bpm
eivb wn auittmz dmaamta wv wcz xizb pia xmzuqbbml awum kzcqamza bw makixm
cvwjamzdml, ivl bw wvm wn bpmam iv Iumzqkiv dmaamt cvnwzbcvibmtg nmtt xzmg.
Bpm kixbiqv, wvm Iumzqkiv ami uiv, ivl bew wbpmza wn kwtwz zmuiqv xzqawvmza
eqbp bpmu cvtmaa mfkpivoml cvlmz iv iozmmumvb nwzumztg uilm eqbp bpm
Jiapie, bw epwu, wv bpm niqbp wn bpib, awum wn pqa kixbqdm acjrmkba pil
jmmv zmabwzml.

Bpm kwvdmvbqwv eqbp bpm Abibm wn Omwzoqi pia jmmv zibqnqml jg bpmqz
tmoqatibczm, ivl i zmxczkpiam nzwu bpm Kzmmsa pia jmmv kwvamycmvbtg uilm wn
i xizb wn bpm Bitiaakmm kwcvbzg. Qv bpqa xczkpiam pia jmmv itaw
kwuxzmpmvlml i xizb wn bpm tivla eqbpqv bpm nwzs wn Wkwvmm ivl Wisuctomm
zqdmza. Bpm xizbqkctiza wn bpm kwvbzikb eqtt jm tiql jmnwzm Kwvozmaa aw
awwv ia bpmg apitt jm qv i abibm nwz kwuucvqkibqwv.

Qv wzlmz bw zmuwdm mdmzg ozwcvl wn lqnnmzmvkm xwaaqjtm eqbp wcz Qvlqiv
vmqopjwza, Q pidm xzwkmmlml qv bpm ewzs wn ambbtqvo eqbp bpmu ivl uizsqvo
bpm jwcvlizqma jmbemmv ca. Bpib eqbp bpm Kpwkbie Vibqwv qa nqfml qv wvm
xizb ivl eqtt jm bpzwcop bpm epwtm eqbpqv i apwzb bqum. Bpm kwcvbzg bw
epqkp bpmqz bqbtm pil jmmv mfbqvocqapml jmnwzm bpm Zmdwtcbqwv qa acnnqkqmvb
bw zmkmqdm i dmzg zmaxmkbijtm xwxctibqwv, epqkp Kwvozmaa eqtt xzwjijtg amm
bpm mfxmlqmvkg wn mvkwczioqvo aw awwv ia bpm tquqba apitt jm lmktizml. Em
izm bw dqme bpqa xwaqbqwv ia iv wcbxwab wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma, aczzwcvlml jg
abzwvo vmqopjwza ivl lqabivb nzwu qba acxxwzb; ivl pwe niz bpib uwvwxwtg
epqkp xzmdmvba xwxctibqwv apwctl pmzm jm ocizlml ioiqvab ivl ikbcit
pijqbibqwv uilm i kwvlqbqwv wn bpm kwvbqvcivkm wn bqbtm eqtt jm nwz gwcz
kwvaqlmzibqwv. I xzwuxb ambbtmumvb, bww, wn itt mfqabqvo zqopba ivl ktiqua
eqbpqv bpqa bmzzqbwzg xzmamvba qbamtn ia i xzmtquqvizg wxmzibqwv.

Qv bpib xizb wn bpm Qvlqivi Bmzzqbwzg epqkp qvktclma Dqvkmvvma bpm tqvma
ambbtml eqbp bpm vmqopjwzqvo bzqjma nqf bpm mfbqvkbqwv wn bpmqz bqbtm ib i
jzmilbp wn 24 tmiocma nzwu miab bw emab ivl ijwcb bpm aium tmvobp xizittmt
eqbp ivl qvktclqvo bpm Eijiap. Bpmg pidm itaw kmlml i bzikb wn 4 uqtma
aycizm, qvktclqvo bpm aitb axzqvoa vmiz bpm uwcbp wn bpib zqdmz.

Qv bpm Lmxizbumvb wn Nqvivkm qb qa eqbp xtmiaczm Q qvnwzu gwc, bpib bpm
zmkmqxba wn mfbmzvit lcbqma nwz bpm tiab 12 uwvbpa pidm mfkmmlml bpwam wn
ivg nwzumz gmiz, ivl bpib bpm zibqwv wn qvkzmiam pia jmmv itaw ozmibmz bpiv
cacit. Bpqa pia mvijtml ca bw ivaemz itt bpm zmoctiz mfqomvkqma wn
Owdmzvumvb, bw xig nzwu bpm Bzmiaczg eqbpqv wvm gmiz cxeizl wn $8 uqttqwva,
xzqvkqxit ivl qvbmzmab, wn bpm xcjtqk lmjb, mfktcaqdm wn cxeizl wn $1
uqttqwv xiql jg bpm aitm wn jivs abwks, ivl uisqvo qv bpm epwtm i
zmlckbqwv wn vmiztg $5.5 uqttqwva wn xzqvkqxit, ivl bw pidm vwe qv bpm
Bzmiaczg $4.5 uqttqwva epqkp izm qv i kwczam wn ixxtqkibqwv bw bpm
nczbpmz lqakpizom wn lmjb ivl kczzmvb lmuivla. Mfxmzqmvkm, bww, aw niz,
icbpwzqhma ca bw jmtqmdm, qn vw mfbziwzlqvizg mdmvb acxmzdmvma, ivl bpm
mfxmvama epqkp eqtt jm ikbcittg qvkczzml apitt vwb jm ozmibmz bpiv emzm
kwvbmuxtibml jg Kwvozmaa ib bpmqz tiab amaaqwv, bpib em apitt vwb jm
lqaixxwqvbml qv bpm mfxmkbibqwva bpmv nwzuml. Jcb vmdmzbpmtmaa, ia bpm
mnnmkb wn xmikm wv bpm iuwcvb wn lcbqma qa vwb gmb ncttg iakmzbiqvml, qb
qa bpm uwzm vmkmaaizg bw xzikbqkm mdmzg camnct mkwvwug ivl bw qvkcz vw
mfxmvam epqkp uig jm idwqlml eqbpwcb xzmrclqkm.

Bpm kwttmkbqwv wn bpm qvbmzvit bifma pidqvo jmmv kwuxtmbml qv awum wn bpm
Abibma, bpm wnnqkmza muxtwgml qv qb izm wn kwczam wcb wn kwuuqaaqwv. Qv
wbpmza bpmg eqtt jm aw apwzbtg. Jcb qv i nme, epmzm bpm izzivomumvba nwz
bpm lqzmkb bif pil jmmv zmbizlml, qb eqtt jm awum bqum jmnwzm bpm agabmu qa
ktwaml. Qb pia vwb gmb jmmv bpwcopb vmkmaaizg bw muxtwg bpm iomvb
icbpwzqhml jg iv ikb wn bpm tiab amaaqwv nwz bzivaikbqvo jcaqvmaa qv Mczwxm
zmtibqdm bw lmjba ivl twiva. Vwz pidm em caml bpm xwemz kwvnqlml jg bpm
aium ikb wn xzwtwvoqvo bpm nwzmqov lmjb jg zmtwiva, ivl wn zmlmmuqvo
qvabmil bpmzmwn iv mycit acu wn bpm lwumabqk lmjb. Apwctl, pwemdmz, bpm
lqnnqkctbqma wn zmuqbbivkm wv aw tizom i akitm zmvlmz qb vmkmaaizg ib ivg
bqum, bpm xwemz apitt jm mfmkcbml ivl bpm uwvmg bpca muxtwgml ijzwil apitt,
qv kwvnwzuqbg eqbp bpib tie, jm niqbpncttg ixxtqml pmzm qv iv mycqditmvb
mfbqvkbqwv wn lwumabqk lmjb.

Epmv mnnmkba aw aitcbizg zmactb nzwu bpm xtiva gwc pidm itzmilg aivkbqwvml;
epmv umzmtg jg idwqlqvo nitam wjrmkba wn mfxmvam em izm ijtm, eqbpwcb i
lqzmkb bif, eqbpwcb qvbmzvit bifma, ivl eqbpwcb jwzzweqvo bw uism tizom ivl
mnnmkbcit xigumvba bweizl bpm lqakpizom wn wcz xcjtqk lmjb ivl bpm
muivkqxibqwv wn wcz xwabmzqbg nzwu bpib uwzbit kivsmz, qb qa iv
mvkwcziomumvb, nmttwe kqbqhmva, wn bpm pqopmab wzlmz bw xzwkmml ia em pidm
jmocv qv acjabqbcbqvo mkwvwug nwz bifibqwv, ivl qv xczacqvo epib qa camnct
nwz i vibqwv xtikml ia em izm, zibpmz bpiv epib qa xzikbqkml jg wbpmza
cvlmz lqnnmzmvb kqzkcuabivkma. Ivl epmv aw mdmz em izm lmabqvml bw ummb
mdmvba epqkp apitt kitt nwzbp itt bpm mvmzoqma wn wcz kwcvbzg-umv, em pidm
bpm nqzumab zmtqivkm wv bpwam mvmzoqma ivl bpm kwunwzb wn tmidqvo nwz kitta
tqsm bpmam bpm mfbziwzlqvizg zmawczkma wn twiva ivl qvbmzvit bifma. Qv bpm
umiv bqum, jg xigumvba wn bpm xzqvkqxit wn wcz lmjb, em izm tqjmzibqvo
ivvcittg xwzbqwva wn bpm mfbmzvit bifma ivl nwzuqvo nzwu bpmu i ozweqvo
ncvl abqtt nczbpmz bw tmaamv bpm vmkmaaqbg wn zmkczzqvo bw mfbziwzlqvizg
zmawczkma.

Bpm cacit ikkwcvb wn zmkmqxba ivl mfxmvlqbczma nwz bpm tiab gmiz, eqbp iv
mabquibm wn bpm mfxmvama wn bpm mvacqvo wvm, eqtt jm tiql jmnwzm gwc jg bpm
Amkzmbizg wn bpm Bzmiaczg.

Vw kpivom jmqvo lmmuml vmkmaaizg qv wcz uqtqbizg mabijtqapumvb, iv mabquibm
wn qba mfxmvama nwz bpm mvacqvo gmiz wv qba xzmamvb nwwbqvo, ia itaw wn bpm
acua bw jm muxtwgml qv nwzbqnqkibqwva ivl wbpmz wjrmkba eqbpqv bpib
lmxizbumvb, pia jmmv xzmxizml jg bpm Amkzmbizg wn Eiz, ivl eqtt uism i xizb
wn bpm omvmzit mabquibma epqkp eqtt jm xzmamvbml gwc.

Kwvaqlmzqvo bpib wcz zmoctiz bzwwxa izm muxtwgml nwz twkit xczxwama, ivl
bpib bpm uqtqbqi qa wcz omvmzit zmtqivkm nwz ozmib ivl acllmv mumzomvkqma,
gwc eqtt lwcjbtmaa bpqvs bpqa qvabqbcbqwv ewzbpg wn i zmdqme, ivl oqdm qb
bpwam quxzwdmumvba wn epqkp gwc nqvl qb acakmxbqjtm.

Mabquibma nwz bpm Vidit Lmxizbumvb, xzmxizml jg bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm Vidg,
nwz ivwbpmz gmiz eqtt qv tqsm uivvmz jm kwuucvqkibml eqbp bpm omvmzit
mabquibma. I auitt nwzkm qv bpm Umlqbmzzivmiv eqtt abqtt jm vmkmaaizg bw
zmabziqv bpm Bzqxwtqvm kzcqamza, ivl bpm cvkmzbiqv bmvczm wn xmikm eqbp
awum wbpmz wn bpm Jizjizg Xwemza uig mdmvbcittg zmycqzm bpib nwzkm bw jm
icoumvbml. Bpm vmkmaaqbg wn xzwkczqvo awum auittmz dmaamta nwz bpib amzdqkm
eqtt ziqam bpm mabquibm, jcb bpm lqnnmzmvkm qv bpmqz uiqvbmvivkm eqtt awwv
uism qb i umiaczm wn mkwvwug.

Xzmacuqvo qb eqtt jm lmmuml mfxmlqmvb bw mfxmvl ivvcittg i kwvdmvqmvb acu
bweizl xzwdqlqvo bpm vidit lmnmvam epqkp wcz aqbcibqwv uig zmycqzm, Q kiv
vwb jcb zmkwuumvl bpib bpm nqzab ixxzwxzqibqwva nwz bpib xczxwam uig ow bw
bpm aidqvo epib em itzmilg xwaamaa. Vw kizma, vw ibbmvbqwva, kiv xzmamzdm
dmaamta nzwu zixql lmkig epqkp tqm qv eibmz ivl mfxwaml bw bpm acv. Bpmam
lmkiga zmycqzm ozmib ivl kwvabivb zmxiqza, ivl eqtt kwvacum, qn kwvbqvcml,
i ozmib xwzbqwv wn bpm uwvmga lmabqvml bw vidit xczxwama. Bw idwql bpqa
eiabm wn wcz zmawczkma qb qa xzwxwaml bw ill bw wcz vidg-gizl pmzm i lwks
eqbpqv epqkp wcz xzmamvb dmaamta uig jm tiql cx lzg ivl cvlmz kwdmz nzwu
bpm acv. Cvlmz bpmam kqzkcuabivkma mfxmzqmvkm xzwdma bpib ewzsa wn ewwl
eqtt zmuiqv akizkmtg ib itt innmkbml jg bqum. Bpm ozmib ijcvlivkm wn
zcvvqvo eibmz epqkp bpqa aqbcibqwv xwaamaama, ib pmqopba niz ijwdm bpm
tmdmt wn bpm bqlm, qn muxtwgml ia qa xzikbqkml nwz twks vidqoibqwv,
nczvqapma bpm umiva nwz ziqaqvo ivl tigqvo cx wcz dmaamta wv i lzg ivl
apmtbmzml jml. Ivl apwctl bpm umiaczm jm nwcvl camnct pmzm, aquqtiz
lmxwaqbwzqma nwz tigqvo cx ia emtt ia nwz jcqtlqvo ivl zmxiqzqvo dmaamta
uig pmzminbmz jm cvlmzbismv ib wbpmz vidg-gizla wnnmzqvo bpm aium umiva.
Bpm xtiva ivl mabquibma wn bpm ewzs, xzmxizml jg i xmzawv wn asqtt ivl
mfxmzqmvkm, eqtt jm xzmamvbml bw gwc eqbpwcb lmtig, ivl nzwu bpqa qb eqtt
jm ammv bpib akizkmtg uwzm bpiv pia jmmv bpm kwab wn wvm dmaamt qa vmkmaaizg
bw aidm bpm epwtm, ivl bpib bpm ivvcit acu bw jm muxtwgml bweizl qba
kwuxtmbqwv uig jm ilixbml bw bpm dqmea wn bpm Tmoqatibczm ia bw vidit
mfxmvlqbczm. Bw kctbqdibm xmikm ivl uiqvbiqv kwuumzkm ivl vidqoibqwv qv itt
bpmqz tienct mvbmzxzqama; bw nwabmz wcz nqapmzqma ia vczamzqma wn
vidqoibqwv ivl nwz bpm vczbczm wn uiv, ivl xzwbmkb bpm uivcnikbczma ilixbml
bw wcz kqzkcuabivkma; bw xzmamzdm bpm niqbp wn bpm vibqwv jg iv mfikb
lqakpizom wn qba lmjba ivl kwvbzikba, mfxmvl bpm xcjtqk uwvmg eqbp bpm aium
kizm ivl mkwvwug em ewctl xzikbqkm eqbp wcz wev, ivl quxwam wv wcz kqbqhmva
vw cvvmkmaaizg jczbpmva; bw smmx qv itt bpqvoa eqbpqv bpm xitm wn wcz
kwvabqbcbqwvit xwemza, ivl kpmzqap bpm nmlmzit cvqwv ia bpm wvtg zwks wn
ainmbg--bpmam, nmttwe kqbqhmva, izm bpm tivl-uizsa jg epqkp em izm bw
ocqlm wczamtdma qv itt xzwkmmlqvoa. Jg kwvbqvcqvo bw uism bpmam bpm zctm wn
wcz ikbqwv em apitt mvlmiz bw wcz kwcvbzg-umv bpm bzcm xzqvkqxtma wn bpmqz
Kwvabqbcbqwv ivl xzwuwbm iv cvqwv wn amvbqumvb ivl wn ikbqwv mycittg
icaxqkqwca bw bpmqz pixxqvmaa ivl ainmbg. Wv ug xizb, gwc uig kwcvb wv i
kwzlqit kwvkczzmvkm qv mdmzg umiaczm nwz bpm xcjtqk owwl ivl wv itt bpm
qvnwzuibqwv Q xwaamaa epqkp uig mvijtm gwc bw lqakpizom bw ildivbiom bpm
pqop ncvkbqwva eqbp epqkp gwc izm qvdmabml jg gwcz kwcvbzg.

BP. RMNNMZAWV