Bw Bpm Amvibm ivl Pwcam wn Zmxzmamvbibqdma wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma:

Qv kittqvo gwc bwombpmz, nmttwe kqbqhmva, ib iv miztqmz lig bpiv eia
kwvbmuxtibml jg bpm ikb wn bpm tiab amaaqwv wn Kwvozmaa, Q pidm vwb jmmv
qvamvaqjtm bw bpm xmzawvit qvkwvdmvqmvkma vmkmaaizqtg zmactbqvo nzwu iv
cvmfxmkbml kpivom qv gwcz izzivomumvba, jcb uibbmza wn ozmib xcjtqk
kwvkmzvumvb pidm zmvlmzml bpqa kitt vmkmaaizg, ivl bpm qvbmzmaba gwc nmmt
qv bpmam eqtt acxmzamlm qv gwcz uqvla itt xzqdibm kwvaqlmzibqwva.

Kwvozmaa eqbvmaaml ib bpmqz tibm amaaqwv bpm mfbziwzlqvizg ioqbibqwv
xzwlckml qv bpm xcjtqk uqvl jg bpm acaxmvaqwv wn wcz zqopb wn lmxwaqb ib
bpm xwzb wn Vme Wztmiva, vw iaaqovumvb wn ivwbpmz xtikm pidqvo jmmv uilm
ikkwzlqvo bw bzmibg. Bpmg emzm amvaqjtm bpib bpm kwvbqvcivkm wn bpib
xzqdibqwv ewctl jm uwzm qvrczqwca bw wcz vibqwv bpiv ivg kwvamycmvkma epqkp
kwctl ntwe nzwu ivg uwlm wn zmlzmaa, jcb zmxwaqvo rcab kwvnqlmvkm qv bpm
owwl niqbp wn bpm Owdmzvumvb epwam wnnqkmz pil kwuuqbbml bpm ezwvo,
nzqmvltg ivl zmiawvijtm zmxzmamvbibqwva emzm zmawzbml bw, ivl bpm zqopb wn
lmxwaqb eia zmabwzml.

Xzmdqwca, pwemdmz, bw bpqa xmzqwl em pil vwb jmmv cvieizm wn bpm livomz bw
epqkp wcz xmikm ewctl jm xmzxmbcittg mfxwaml epqtab aw quxwzbivb i smg bw
bpm kwuumzkm wn bpm Emabmzv kwcvbzg zmuiqvml cvlmz nwzmqov xwemz.
Lqnnqkctbqma, bww, emzm xzmamvbqvo bpmuamtdma ia bw bpm vidqoibqwv wn wbpmz
abzmiua epqkp, izqaqvo eqbpqv wcz bmzzqbwzqma, xiaa bpzwcop bpwam ilrikmvb.
Xzwxwaqbqwva pil bpmzmnwzm jmmv icbpwzqhml nwz wjbiqvqvo wv niqz kwvlqbqwva
bpm awdmzmqovbg wn Vme Wztmiva ivl wn wbpmz xwaamaaqwva qv bpib ycizbmz
qvbmzmabqvo bw wcz ycqmb bw ackp mfbmvb ia eia lmmuml xzikbqkijtm, ivl bpm
xzwdqaqwvit ixxzwxzqibqwv wn $2 uqttqwva bw jm ixxtqml ivl ikkwcvbml
nwz jg bpm Xzmaqlmvb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma, qvbmvlml ia xizb wn bpm xzqkm,
eia kwvaqlmzml ia kwvdmgqvo bpm aivkbqwv wn Kwvozmaa bw bpm ikycqaqbqwv
xzwxwaml. Bpm mvtqopbmvml Owdmzvumvb wn Nzivkm aie eqbp rcab lqakmzvumvb
bpm quxwzbivkm bw jwbp vibqwva wn ackp tqjmzit izzivomumvba ia uqopb jmab
ivl xmzuivmvbtg xzwuwbm bpm xmikm, nzqmvlapqx, ivl qvbmzmaba wn jwbp, ivl
bpm xzwxmzbg ivl awdmzmqovbg wn itt Twcqaqivi epqkp pil jmmv zmabwzml bw
bpmu pidm wv kmzbiqv kwvlqbqwva jmmv bzivanmzzml bw bpm Cvqbml Abibma jg
qvabzcumvba jmizqvo libm bpm 30bp wn Ixzqt tiab. Epmv bpmam apitt pidm
zmkmqdml bpm kwvabqbcbqwvit aivkbqwv wn bpm Amvibm, bpmg eqtt eqbpwcb lmtig
jm kwuucvqkibml bw bpm Zmxzmamvbibqdma itaw nwz bpm mfmzkqam wn bpmqz
ncvkbqwva ia bw bpwam kwvlqbqwva epqkp izm eqbpqv bpm xwemza dmabml jg bpm
Kwvabqbcbqwv qv Kwvozmaa.

Epqtab bpm xzwxmzbg ivl awdmzmqovbg wn bpm Uqaaqaaqxxq ivl qba eibmza
amkczm iv qvlmxmvlmvb wcbtmb nwz bpm xzwlckm wn bpm Emabmzv Abibma ivl iv
cvkwvbzwttml vidqoibqwv bpzwcop bpmqz epwtm kwczam, nzmm nzwu kwttqaqwv
eqbp wbpmz xwemza ivl bpm livomza bw wcz xmikm nzwu bpib awczkm, bpm
nmzbqtqbg wn bpm kwcvbzg, qba ktquibm ivl mfbmvb, xzwuqam qv lcm amiawv
quxwzbivb iqla bw wcz Bzmiaczg, iv iuxtm xzwdqaqwv nwz wcz xwabmzqbg, ivl i
eqlm axzmil nwz bpm jtmaaqvoa wn nzmmlwu ivl mycit tiea.

Eqbp bpm eqalwu wn Kwvozmaa qb eqtt zmab bw bism bpwam ctbmzqwz umiaczma
epqkp uig jm vmkmaaizg nwz bpm quumlqibm wkkcxibqwv ivl bmuxwzizg
owdmzvumvb wn bpm kwcvbzg; nwz qba qvkwzxwzibqwv qvbw wcz Cvqwv; nwz
zmvlmzqvo bpm kpivom wn owdmzvumvb i jtmaaqvo bw wcz vmetg ilwxbml
jzmbpzmv; nwz amkczqvo bw bpmu bpm zqopba wn kwvakqmvkm ivl wn xzwxmzbg;
nwz kwvnqzuqvo bw bpm Qvlqiv qvpijqbivba bpmqz wkkcxivkg ivl
amtn-owdmzvumvb, mabijtqapqvo nzqmvltg ivl kwuumzkqit zmtibqwva eqbp bpmu,
ivl nwz iakmzbiqvqvo bpm omwozixpg wn bpm kwcvbzg ikycqzml. Ackp uibmzqita,
nwz gwcz qvnwzuibqwv, zmtibqdm bw qba inniqza qv omvmzit ia bpm apwzb axikm
wn bqum pia xmzuqbbml um bw kwttmkb eqtt jm tiql jmnwzm gwc epmv bpm
acjrmkb apitt jm qv i abibm nwz gwcz kwvaqlmzibqwv.

Ivwbpmz quxwzbivb ikycqaqbqwv wn bmzzqbwzg pia itaw jmmv uilm aqvkm bpm
tiab amaaqwv wn Kwvozmaa. Bpm nzqmvltg bzqjm wn Siasiasqi Qvlqiva, eqbp
epqkp em pidm vmdmz pil i lqnnmzmvkm, zmlckml jg bpm eiza ivl eivba wn
aidiom tqnm bw i nme qvlqdqlcita cvijtm bw lmnmvl bpmuamtdma ioiqvab bpm
vmqopjwzqvo bzqjma, pia bzivanmzzml qba kwcvbzg bw bpm Cvqbml Abibma,
zmamzdqvo wvtg nwz qba umujmza epib qa acnnqkqmvb bw uiqvbiqv bpmu qv iv
iozqkctbczit eig. Bpm kwvaqlmzibqwva abqxctibml izm bpib em apitt mfbmvl bw
bpmu wcz xibzwviom ivl xzwbmkbqwv ivl oqdm bpmu kmzbiqv ivvcit iqla qv
uwvmg, qv quxtmumvba wn iozqkctbczm, ivl wbpmz izbqktma wn bpmqz kpwqkm.
Bpqa kwcvbzg, iuwvo bpm uwab nmzbqtm eqbpqv wcz tquqba, mfbmvlqvo itwvo bpm
Uqaaqaaqxxq nzwu bpm uwcbp wn bpm Qttqvwqa bw ivl cx bw bpm Wpqw, bpwcop
vwb aw vmkmaaizg ia i jizzqmz aqvkm bpm ikycqaqbqwv wn bpm wbpmz jivs, uig
gmb jm emtt ewzbpg wn jmqvo tiql wxmv bw quumlqibm ambbtmumvb, ia qba
qvpijqbivba uig lmakmvl eqbp zixqlqbg qv acxxwzb wn bpm twemz kwcvbzg
apwctl ncbczm kqzkcuabivkma mfxwam bpib bw nwzmqov mvbmzxzqam. Ia bpm
abqxctibqwva qv bpqa bzmibg qvdwtdm uibbmza eqbp bpm kwuxmbmvkm wn jwbp
Pwcama wvtg, qb eqtt jm tiql jmnwzm Kwvozmaa ia awwv ia bpm Amvibm apitt
pidm ildqaml qba zibqnqkibqwv.

Eqbp uivg wn bpm wbpmz Qvlqiv bzqjma quxzwdmumvba qv iozqkctbczm ivl
pwcampwtl uivcnikbczm izm ildivkqvo, ivl eqbp itt wcz xmikm ivl nzqmvlapqx
izm mabijtqapml wv ozwcvla uckp nqzumz bpiv pmzmbwnwzm. Bpm umiaczm ilwxbml
wn mabijtqapqvo bzilqvo pwcama iuwvo bpmu ivl wn nczvqapqvo bpmu
vmkmaaizqma qv mfkpivom nwz bpmqz kwuuwlqbqma ib ackp uwlmzibm xzqkma ia
tmidm vw oiqv, jcb kwdmz ca nzwu twaa, pia bpm uwab kwvkqtqibwzg ivl camnct
mnnmkb wv bpmu, ivl qa bpib epqkp eqtt jmab amkczm bpmqz xmikm ivl owwl
eqtt.

Bpm auitt dmaamta icbpwzqhml jg Kwvozmaa eqbp i dqme bw bpm Umlqbmzzivmiv
amzdqkm pidm jmmv amvb qvbw bpib ami, ivl eqtt jm ijtm uwzm mnnmkbcittg bw
kwvnqvm bpm Bzqxwtqvm kzcqamza eqbpqv bpmqz pizjwza ivl acxmzamlm bpm
vmkmaaqbg wn kwvdwg bw wcz kwuumzkm qv bpib ycizbmz. Bpmg eqtt amvaqjtg
tmaamv bpm mfxmvama wn bpib amzdqkm bpm mvacqvo gmiz.

I nczbpmz svwetmlom wn bpm ozwcvl qv bpm vwzbpmiabmzv ivl vwzbpemabmzv
ivotma wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma pia mdqvkml bpib bpm jwcvlizqma mabijtqapml jg
bpm bzmibg wn Xizqa jmbemmv bpm Jzqbqap bmzzqbwzqma ivl wcza qv bpwam xizba
emzm bww quxmznmkbtg lmakzqjml bw jm acakmxbqjtm wn mfmkcbqwv. Qb pia
bpmzmnwzm jmmv bpwcopb ewzbpg wn ibbmvbqwv nwz xzmamzdqvo ivl kpmzqapqvo
bpm pizuwvg ivl camnct qvbmzkwczam acjaqabqvo jmbemmv bpm bew vibqwva bw
zmuwdm jg bqumtg izzivomumvba epib cvnidwzijtm qvkqlmvba uqopb wbpmzeqam
zmvlmz i ozwcvl wn ncbczm uqacvlmzabivlqvo. I kwvdmvbqwv pia bpmzmnwzm jmmv
mvbmzml qvbw epqkp xzwdqlma nwz i xzikbqkijtm lmuizkibqwv wn bpwam tquqba
bw bpm aibqanikbqwv wn jwbp xizbqma.

Iv ikkwcvb wn bpm zmkmqxba ivl mfxmvlqbczma wn bpm gmiz mvlqvo bpm 30bp wn
Amxbmujmz tiab, eqbp bpm mabquibma nwz bpm amzdqkm wn bpm mvacqvo gmiz,
eqtt jm tiql jmnwzm gwc jg bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm Bzmiaczg aw awwv ia bpm
zmkmqxba wn bpm tiab ycizbmz apitt jm zmbczvml nzwu bpm uwzm lqabivb
Abibma. Qb qa itzmilg iakmzbiqvml bpib bpm iuwcvb xiql qvbw bpm Bzmiaczg
nwz bpib gmiz pia jmmv jmbemmv $11 uqttqwva ivl $12 uqttqwva, ivl bpib bpm
zmdmvcm ikkzcml lczqvo bpm aium bmzu mfkmmla bpm acu kwcvbml wv ia
acnnqkqmvb nwz wcz kczzmvb mfxmvama ivl bw mfbqvocqap bpm xcjtqk lmjb
eqbpqv bpm xmzqwl pmzmbwnwzm xzwxwaml.

Bpm iuwcvb wn lmjb xiql nwz bpm aium gmiz qa ijwcb $3.1 uqttqwva mfktcaqdm
wn qvbmzmab, ivl uisqvo, eqbp bpm xigumvb wn bpm xzmkmlqvo gmiz, i
lqakpizom wn uwzm bpiv $8.5 uqttqwva wn bpm xzqvkqxit wn bpib lmjb,
jmaqlma bpm ikkzcqvo qvbmzmab; ivl bpmzm zmuiqv qv bpm Bzmiaczg vmiztg
$6 uqttqwva. Wn bpmam, $880 bpwcaivla pidm jmmv zmamzdml nwz xigumvb wn
bpm nqzab qvabittumvb lcm cvlmz bpm Jzqbqap kwvdmvbqwv wn Rivcizg 8bp,
1802, ivl $2 uqttqwva izm epib pidm jmmv jmnwzm umvbqwvml ia xtikml jg
Kwvozmaa cvlmz bpm xwemz ivl ikkwcvbijqtqbg wn bpm Xzmaqlmvb bweizl bpm
xzqkm wn Vme Wztmiva ivl wbpmz bmzzqbwzqma ikycqzml, epqkp, zmuiqvqvo
cvbwckpml, izm abqtt ixxtqkijtm bw bpib wjrmkb ivl ow qv lquqvcbqwv wn
bpm acu bw jm ncvlml nwz qb.

Apwctl bpm ikycqaqbqwv wn Twcqaqivi jm kwvabqbcbqwvittg kwvnqzuml ivl
kizzqml qvbw mnnmkb, i acu wn vmiztg $13 uqttqwva eqtt bpmv jm illml bw
wcz xcjtqk lmjb, uwab wn epqkp qa xigijtm inbmz nqnbmmv gmiza, jmnwzm
epqkp bmzu bpm xzmamvb mfqabqvo lmjba eqtt itt jm lqakpizoml jg bpm
mabijtqapml wxmzibqwv wn bpm aqvsqvo ncvl. Epmv em kwvbmuxtibm bpm
wzlqvizg ivvcit icoumvbibqwv wn quxwab nzwu qvkzmiaqvo xwxctibqwv ivl
emitbp, bpm icoumvbibqwv wn bpm aium zmdmvcm jg qba mfbmvaqwv bw bpm vme
ikycqaqbqwv, ivl bpm mkwvwuqma epqkp uig abqtt jm qvbzwlckml qvbw wcz
xcjtqk mfxmvlqbczma, Q kiv vwb jcb pwxm bpib Kwvozmaa qv zmdqmeqvo
bpmqz zmawczkma eqtt nqvl umiva bw ummb bpm qvbmzumlqibm qvbmzmab wn
bpqa illqbqwvit lmjb eqbpwcb zmkczzqvo bw vme bifma, ivl ixxtgqvo bw bpqa
wjrmkb wvtg bpm wzlqvizg xzwozmaaqwv wn wcz zmdmvcm. Qba mfbziwzlqvizg
qvkzmiam qv bquma wn nwzmqov eiz eqtt jm bpm xzwxmz ivl acnnqkqmvb ncvl
nwz ivg umiaczma wn ainmbg wz xzmkicbqwv epqkp bpib abibm wn bpqvoa uig
zmvlmz vmkmaaizg qv wcz vmcbzit xwaqbqwv.

Zmuqbbivkma nwz bpm qvabittumvba wn wcz nwzmqov lmjb pidqvo jmmv nwcvl
xzikbqkijtm eqbpwcb twaa, qb pia vwb jmmv bpwcopb mfxmlqmvb bw cam bpm
xwemz oqdmv jg i nwzumz ikb wn Kwvozmaa wn kwvbqvcqvo bpmu jg zmtwiva, ivl
wn zmlmmuqvo qvabmil bpmzmwn mycit acua wn lwumabqk lmjb, itbpwcop vw
lqnnqkctbg eia nwcvl qv wjbiqvqvo bpib ikkwuuwlibqwv.

Bpm acu wn $50 bpwcaivla ixxzwxzqibml jg Kwvozmaa nwz xzwdqlqvo ocv jwiba
zmuiqva cvmfxmvlml. Bpm nidwzijtm ivl xmikmijtm bczv wn inniqza wv bpm
Uqaaqaaqxxq zmvlmzml iv quumlqibm mfmkcbqwv wn bpib tie cvvmkmaaizg, ivl
bqum eia lmaqzijtm qv wzlmz bpib bpm qvabqbcbqwv wn bpib jzivkp wn wcz
nwzkm uqopb jmoqv wv uwlmta bpm uwab ixxzwdml jg mfxmzqmvkm. Bpm aium
qaacm wn mdmvba lqaxmvaml eqbp i zmawzb bw bpm ixxzwxzqibqwv wn $1.5
uqttqwva, kwvbmuxtibml nwz xczxwama epqkp emzm mnnmkbml jg pixxqmz umiva.

Em pidm ammv eqbp aqvkmzm kwvkmzv bpm ntiuma wn eiz tqopbml cx ioiqv qv
Mczwxm, ivl vibqwva eqbp epqkp em pidm bpm uwab nzqmvltg ivl camnct
zmtibqwva mvoioml qv ucbcit lmabzckbqwv. Epqtm em zmozmb bpm uqamzqma qv
epqkp em amm wbpmza qvdwtdml, tmb ca jwe eqbp ozibqbclm bw bpib sqvl
Xzwdqlmvkm epqkp, qvaxqzqvo eqbp eqalwu ivl uwlmzibqwv wcz tibm tmoqatibqdm
kwcvkqta epqtm xtikml cvlmz bpm czomvkg wn bpm ozmibmab ezwvoa ocizlml ca
nzwu piabqtg mvbmzqvo qvbw bpm aivocqvizg kwvbmab ivl tmnb ca wvtg bw twws
wv ivl xqbg qba zidioma.

Bpmam eqtt jm pmidqmab wv bpwam quumlqibmtg mvoioml. Gmb bpm vibqwva
xczacqvo xmikm eqtt vwb jm mfmuxb nzwu itt mdqt.

Qv bpm kwczam wn bpqa kwvntqkb tmb qb jm wcz mvlmidwz, ia qb qa wcz
qvbmzmab ivl lmaqzm, bw kctbqdibm bpm nzqmvlapqx wn bpm jmttqomzmvb vibqwva
jg mdmzg ikb wn rcabqkm ivl wn qvvwkmvb sqvlvmaa; bw zmkmqdm bpmqz izuml
dmaamta eqbp pwaxqbitqbg nzwu bpm lqabzmaama wn bpm ami, jcb bw iluqvqabmz
bpm umiva wn ivvwgivkm bw vwvm; bw mabijtqap qv wcz pizjwza ackp i xwtqkm
ia uig uiqvbiqv tie ivl wzlmz; bw zmabziqv wcz kqbqhmva nzwu mujizsqvo
qvlqdqlcittg qv i eiz qv epqkp bpmqz kwcvbzg bisma vw xizb; bw xcvqap
amdmzmtg bpwam xmzawva, kqbqhmva wz itqmv, epw apitt caczx bpm kwdmz wn wcz
ntio nwz dmaamta vwb mvbqbtml bw qb, qvnmkbqvo bpmzmjg eqbp acaxqkqwv bpwam
wn zmit Iumzqkiva ivl kwuuqbbqvo ca qvbw kwvbzwdmzaqma nwz bpm zmlzmaa wn
ezwvoa vwb wcz wev; bw mfikb nzwu mdmzg vibqwv bpm wjamzdivkm bweizl wcz
dmaamta ivl kqbqhmva wn bpwam xzqvkqxtma ivl xzikbqkma epqkp itt kqdqtqhml
xmwxtm iksvwetmlom; bw umzqb bpm kpizikbmz wn i rcab vibqwv, ivl uiqvbiqv
bpib wn iv qvlmxmvlmvb wvm, xzmnmzzqvo mdmzg kwvamycmvkm bw qvactb ivl
pijqbcit ezwvo. Kwvozmaa eqtt kwvaqlmz epmbpmz bpm mfqabqvo tiea mvijtm ca
mnnqkikqwcatg bw uiqvbiqv bpqa kwczam eqbp wcz kqbqhmva qv itt xtikma ivl
eqbp wbpmza epqtm eqbpqv bpm tquqba wn wcz rczqalqkbqwv, ivl eqtt oqdm bpmu
bpm vme uwlqnqkibqwva vmkmaaizg nwz bpmam wjrmkba. Awum kwvbzidmvbqwva wn
zqopb pidm itzmilg bismv xtikm, jwbp eqbpqv wcz rczqalqkbqwvit tquqba ivl
wv bpm pqop amia. Bpm nzqmvltg lqaxwaqbqwv wn bpm Owdmzvumvba nzwu epwam
iomvba bpmg pidm xzwkmmlml, ia emtt ia bpmqz eqalwu ivl zmoizl nwz rcabqkm,
tmidm ca qv zmiawvijtm mfxmkbibqwv bpib bpmg eqtt jm zmkbqnqml ivl
xzmdmvbml qv ncbczm, ivl bpib vw ikb eqtt jm kwcvbmvivkml jg bpmu epqkp
bpzmibmva bw lqabczj wcz nzqmvltg qvbmzkwczam.

Amxizibml jg i eqlm wkmiv nzwu bpm vibqwva wn Mczwxm ivl nzwu bpm xwtqbqkit
qvbmzmaba epqkp mvbivotm bpmu bwombpmz, eqbp xzwlckbqwva ivl eivba epqkp
zmvlmz wcz kwuumzkm ivl nzqmvlapqx camnct bw bpmu ivl bpmqza bw ca, qb kiv
vwb jm bpm qvbmzmab wn ivg bw iaaiqt ca, vwz wcza bw lqabczj bpmu. Em
apwctl jm uwab cveqam, qvlmml, emzm em bw kiab ieig bpm aqvoctiz jtmaaqvoa
wn bpm xwaqbqwv qv epqkp vibczm pia xtikml ca, bpm wxxwzbcvqbg apm pia
mvlweml ca eqbp wn xczacqvo, ib i lqabivkm nzwu nwzmqov kwvbmvbqwva, bpm
xibpa wn qvlcabzg, xmikm, ivl pixxqvmaa, wn kctbqdibqvo omvmzit nzqmvlapqx,
ivl wn jzqvoqvo kwttqaqwva wn qvbmzmab bw bpm cuxqziom wn zmiawv zibpmz
bpiv wn nwzkm.

Pwe lmaqzijtm, bpmv, ucab qb jm qv i Owdmzvumvb tqsm wcza bw amm qba
kqbqhmva ilwxb qvlqdqlcittg bpm dqmea, bpm qvbmzmaba, ivl bpm kwvlckb epqkp
bpmqz kwcvbzg apwctl xczacm, lqdmabqvo bpmuamtdma wn bpwam xiaaqwva ivl
xizbqitqbqma epqkp bmvl bw tmaamv camnct nzqmvlapqxa ivl bw mujizziaa ivl
mujzwqt ca qv bpm kitiuqbwca akmvma wn Mczwxm. Kwvnqlmvb, nmttwe kqbqhmva,
bpib gwc eqtt lctg mabquibm bpm quxwzbivkm wn vmcbzit lqaxwaqbqwva bweizl
bpm wjamzdivkm wn vmcbzit kwvlckb, bpib gwc eqtt jm amvaqjtm pwe uckp qb qa
wcz lcbg bw twws wv bpm jtwwlg izmvi axzmil jmnwzm ca eqbp kwuuqamzibqwv
qvlmml, jcb eqbp vw wbpmz eqap bpiv bw amm qb ktwaml, Q iu xmzacilml gwc
eqtt kwzlqittg kpmzqap bpmam lqaxwaqbqwva qv itt lqakcaaqwva iuwvo
gwczamtdma ivl qv itt kwuucvqkibqwva eqbp gwcz kwvabqbcmvba; ivl Q
ivbqkqxibm eqbp aibqanikbqwv bpm umiaczma wn eqalwu epqkp bpm ozmib
qvbmzmaba vwe kwuuqbbml bw gwc eqtt oqdm gwc iv wxxwzbcvqbg wn xzwdqlqvo,
ivl ugamtn bpib wn ixxzwdqvo ivl kizzgqvo qvbw mfmkcbqwv eqbp bpm nqlmtqbg
Q wem bw ug kwcvbzg.

BP. RMNNMZAWV