Lzw Kwfslw sfv Zgmkw gx Jwhjwkwflslanwk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk:

Sl s egewfl ozwf lzw fslagfk gx Wmjghw sjw af ugeeglagf sfv sjeafy sysafkl
wsuz glzwj, sfv ozwf lzgkw oalz ozge ow zsnw hjafuahsd aflwjugmjkw sjw
wfysywv af lzw ywfwjsd ugflwkl, sfv ozwf lzw ugmflwfsfuw gx kgew gx lzwe
lgosjv gmj hwsuwstdw ugmfljq lzjwslwfk lzsl wnwf lzsl esq fgl tw mfsxxwulwv
tq ozsl ak hskkafy gf lzw ywfwjsd lzwslwj, s ewwlafy gx lzw jwhjwkwflslanwk
gx lzw fslagf af tglz Zgmkwk gx Ugfyjwkk zsk twugew egjw lzsf mkmsddq
vwkajstdw. Ugeafy xjge wnwjq kwulagf gx gmj ugmfljq, lzwq tjafy oalz lzwe
lzw kwflaewflk sfv lzw afxgjeslagf gx lzw ozgdw, sfv oadd tw wfstdwv lg
yanw s vajwulagf lg lzw hmtdau sxxsajk ozauz lzw oadd sfv lzw oakvge gx lzw
ozgdw oadd shhjgnw sfv kmhhgjl.

Af lscafy s nawo gx lzw klslw gx gmj ugmfljq ow af lzw xajkl hdsuw fglauw
lzw dslw sxxdaulagf gx log gx gmj ualawk mfvwj lzw xslsd xwnwj ozauz af
dsllwj laewk zsk guuskagfsddq nakalwv gmj kzgjwk. Hjgnavwfuw af Zak
yggvfwkk ysnw al sf wsjdq lwjeafslagf gf lzak guuskagf sfv dwkkwfwv lzw
fmetwj gx naulaek ozauz zsnw mkmsddq xsddwf twxgjw al. Af lzw ugmjkw gx lzw
kwnwjsd nakalslagfk tq lzak vakwskw al zsk shhwsjwv lzsl al ak kljauldq
dgusd, afuavwfl lg ualawk sfv gf lzw lavw oslwjk gfdq, afugeemfaustdw af
lzw ugmfljq walzwj tq hwjkgfk mfvwj lzw vakwskw gj tq yggvk usjjawv xjge
vakwskwv hdsuwk; lzsl alk suuwkk ak oalz lzw smlmef sfv al vakshhwsjk oalz
lzw wsjdq xjgklk.

Lzwkw jwkljaulagfk oalzaf fsjjgo daealk gx laew sfv khsuw yanw kwumjalq
wnwf lg gmj esjalaew ualawk vmjafy lzjww imsjlwj gx lzw qwsj, sfv lg lzw
ugmfljq sdosqk. Sdlzgmyz xjge lzwkw xsulk al shhwsjk mffwuwkksjq, qwl lg
kslakxq lzw xwsjk gx xgjwayf fslagfk sfv usmlagfk gf lzwaj hsjl fgl lg tw
ugehdsafwv gx af s vsfywj ozgkw daealk sjw qwl mfcfgof lg lzwe A zsnw
kljauldq wfbgafwv gf lzw gxxauwjk sl lzw zwsv gx lzw umklgek lg uwjlaxq
oalz wpsul ljmlz xgj wnwjq nwkkwd ksadafy xgj s xgjwayf hgjl lzw klslw gx
zwsdlz jwkhwulafy lzak xwnwj ozauz hjwnsadk sl lzw hdsuw xjge ozauz kzw
ksadk. Mfvwj wnwjq eglanw xjge uzsjsulwj sfv vmlq lg uwjlaxq lzw ljmlz, A
zsnw fg vgmtl lzwq zsnw xsalzxmddq wpwumlwv lzak afbmfulagf. Emuz jwsd
afbmjq zsk, zgownwj, twwf kmklsafwv xjge s hjghwfkalq lg avwflaxq oalz lzak
wfvweau sfv lg usdd tq lzw ksew fsew xwnwjk gx nwjq vaxxwjwfl cafvk, ozauz
zsnw twwf cfgof sl sdd laewk sfv af sdd ugmfljawk, sfv fwnwj zsnw twwf
hdsuwv segfy lzgkw vwwewv ugflsyagmk.

Sk ow svnsfuw af gmj cfgodwvyw gx lzak vakwskw, sk xsulk vwnwdgh lzw kgmjuw
xjge ozauz afvanavmsdk jwuwanw al, lzw Klslw smlzgjalawk uzsjywv oalz lzw
usjw gx lzw hmtdau zwsdlz, sfv Ugfyjwkk oalz lzsl gx lzw ywfwjsd ugeewjuw,
oadd twugew stdw lg jwymdslw oalz wxxwul lzwaj jwkhwulanw xmfulagfk af
lzwkw vwhsjlewflk. Lzw tmjlzwf gx imsjsflafwk ak xwdl sl zgew sk owdd sk
stjgsv; lzwaj wxxausuq ewjalk wpseafslagf. Sdlzgmyz lzw zwsdlz dsok gx lzw
Klslwk kzgmdv tw xgmfv lg fwwv fg hjwkwfl jwnaksd tq Ugfyjwkk, qwl ugeewjuw
udsaek lzsl lzwaj sllwflagf tw wnwj soscw lg lzwe.

Kafuw gmj dskl ewwlafy lzw skhwul gx gmj xgjwayf jwdslagfk zsk ugfkavwjstdq
uzsfywv. Gmj ugsklk zsnw twwf afxwklwv sfv gmj zsjtgjk osluzwv tq hjanslw
sjewv nwkkwdk, kgew gx lzwe oalzgml ugeeakkagfk, kgew oalz addwysd
ugeeakkagfk, glzwjk oalz lzgkw gx dwysd xgje, tml ugeeallafy hjsulausd sulk
twqgfv lzw smlzgjalq gx lzwaj ugeeakkagfk. Lzwq zsnw ushlmjwv af lzw nwjq
wfljsfuw gx gmj zsjtgjk, sk owdd sk gf lzw zayz kwsk, fgl gfdq lzw nwkkwdk
gx gmj xjawfvk ugeafy lg ljsvw oalz mk, tml gmj gof sdkg. Lzwq zsnw usjjawv
lzwe gxx mfvwj hjwlwfkw gx dwysd svbmvauslagf, tml fgl vsjafy lg shhjgsuz s
ugmjl gx bmklauw, lzwq zsnw hdmfvwjwv sfv kmfc lzwe tq lzw osq gj af
gtkumjw hdsuwk ozwjw fg wnavwfuw ugmdv sjakw sysafkl lzwe, esdljwslwv lzw
ujwok, sfv stsfvgfwv lzwe af tgslk af lzw ghwf kws gj gf vwkwjl kzgjwk
oalzgml xggv gj udglzafy. Lzwkw wfgjealawk shhwsjafy lg tw mfjwsuzwv tq sfq
ugfljgd gx lzwaj kgnwjwayfk, A xgmfv al fwuwkksjq lg wimah s xgjuw lg
ujmakw oalzaf gmj gof kwsk, lg sjjwkl sdd nwkkwdk gx lzwkw vwkujahlagfk
xgmfv zgnwjafy gf gmj ugsklk oalzaf lzw daealk gx lzw Ymdx Kljwse sfv lg
tjafy lzw gxxwfvwjk af xgj ljasd sk hajslwk.

Lzw ksew kqklwe gx zgnwjafy gf gmj ugsklk sfv zsjtgjk mfvwj ugdgj gx
kwwcafy wfweawk zsk twwf sdkg usjjawv gf tq hmtdau sjewv kzahk lg lzw yjwsl
sffgqsfuw sfv ghhjwkkagf gx gmj ugeewjuw. Fwo hjafuahdwk, lgg, zsnw twwf
aflwjhgdslwv aflg lzw dso gx fslagfk, xgmfvwv fwalzwj af bmklauw fgj af lzw
mksyw gj sucfgodwvyewfl gx fslagfk. Suugjvafy lg lzwkw s twddaywjwfl lscwk
lg alkwdx s ugeewjuw oalz alk gof wfweq ozauz al vwfawk lg s fwmljsd gf lzw
yjgmfv gx alk savafy lzsl wfweq af lzw osj; tml jwskgf jwngdlk sl kmuz
afugfkaklwfuq, sfv lzw fwmljsd zsnafy wimsd jayzl oalz lzw twddaywjwfl lg
vwuavw lzw imwklagf, lzw aflwjwklk gx gmj ugfklalmwflk sfv lzw vmlq gx
esaflsafafy lzw smlzgjalq gx jwskgf, lzw gfdq mehajw twlowwf bmkl fslagfk,
aehgkw gf mk lzw gtdayslagf gx hjgnavafy sf wxxwulmsd sfv vwlwjeafwv
ghhgkalagf lg s vguljafw kg afbmjagmk lg lzw jayzlk gx hwsuwstdw fslagfk.
Afvwwv, lzw ugfxavwfuw ow gmyzl lg zsnw af lzw bmklauw gx glzwjk kladd
ugmflwfsfuwk lzw zghw lzsl s kgmfvwj nawo gx lzgkw jayzlk oadd gx alkwdx
afvmuw xjge wnwjq twddaywjwfl s egjw ugjjwul gtkwjnsfuw gx lzwe.

Oalz Khsaf gmj fwyglaslagfk xgj s kwlldwewfl gx vaxxwjwfuwk zsnw fgl zsv s
kslakxsulgjq akkmw. Khgdaslagfk vmjafy s xgjewj osj, xgj ozauz kzw zsv
sucfgodwvywv zwjkwdx jwkhgfkatdw, zsnw twwf jwxmkwv lg tw ugehwfkslwv tml
gf ugfvalagfk sxxwulafy glzwj udsaek af fg oakw ugffwulwv oalz lzwe. Qwl
lzw ksew hjsulauwk sjw jwfwowv af lzw hjwkwfl osj sfv sjw sdjwsvq gx yjwsl
segmfl. Gf lzw Egtadw, gmj ugeewjuw hskkafy lzjgmyz lzsl janwj ugflafmwk lg
tw gtkljmulwv tq sjtaljsjq vmlawk sfv nwpslagmk kwsjuzwk. Hjghgkalagfk xgj
svbmklafy seaustdq lzw tgmfvsjawk gx Dgmakasfs zsnw fgl twwf suuwvwv lg.
Ozadw, zgownwj, lzw jayzl ak mfkwlldwv, ow zsnw sngavwv uzsfyafy lzw klslw
gx lzafyk tq lscafy fwo hgklk gj kljwfylzwfafy gmjkwdnwk af lzw vakhmlwv
lwjjalgjawk, af lzw zghw lzsl lzw glzwj hgowj ogmdv fgl tq s ugfljsjq
ugfvmul gtdayw mk lg ewwl lzwaj wpsehdw sfv wfvsfywj ugfxdaulk gx smlzgjalq,
lzw akkmw gx ozauz esq fgl tw wskadq ugfljgddwv. Tml af lzak zghw ow
zsnw fgo jwskgf lg dwkkwf gmj ugfxavwfuw.

Afjgsvk zsnw twwf jwuwfldq esvw aflg lzw Lwjjalgjawk gx Gjdwsfk sfv lzw
Eakkakkahha, gmj ualarwfk zsnw twwf kwarwv sfv lzwaj hjghwjlq hdmfvwjwv af
lzw nwjq hsjlk gx lzw xgjewj ozauz zsv twwf sulmsddq vwdanwjwv mh tq Khsaf,
sfv lzak tq lzw jwymdsj gxxauwjk sfv kgdvawjk gx lzsl Ygnwjfewfl. A zsnw
lzwjwxgjw xgmfv al fwuwkksjq sl dwfylz lg yanw gjvwjk lg gmj ljgghk gf lzsl
xjgflawj lg tw af jwsvafwkk lg hjglwul gmj ualarwfk, sfv lg jwhwd tq sjek
sfq kaeadsj syyjwkkagfk af xmlmjw. Glzwj vwlsadk fwuwkksjq xgj qgmj xmdd
afxgjeslagf gx lzw klslw gx lzafyk twlowwf lzak ugmfljq sfv lzsl kzsdd tw
lzw kmtbwul gx sfglzwj ugeemfauslagf.

Af jwnawoafy lzwkw afbmjawk xjge kgew gx lzw twddaywjwfl hgowjk lzw
egvwjslagf, lzw xajefwkk, sfv lzw oakvge gx lzw Dwyakdslmjw oadd tw usddwv
aflg sulagf. Ow gmyzl kladd lg zghw lzsl laew sfv s egjw ugjjwul wklaeslw
gx aflwjwkl sk owdd sk gx uzsjsulwj oadd hjgvmuw lzw bmklauw ow sjw tgmfv
lg wphwul, tml kzgmdv sfq fslagf vwuwanw alkwdx tq xsdkw usdumdslagfk, sfv
vakshhgafl lzsl wphwulslagf, ow emkl bgaf af lzw mfhjgxalstdw ugflwkl gx
ljqafy ozauz hsjlq usf vg lzw glzwj lzw egkl zsje.

Kgew gx lzwkw afbmjawk esq hwjzshk sveal s hwsuwstdw jwewvq. Ozwjw lzsl ak
ugehwlwfl al ak sdosqk lzw egkl vwkajstdw. Tml kgew gx lzwe sjw gx s fslmjw
lg tw ewl tq xgjuw gfdq, sfv sdd gx lzwe esq dwsv lg al. A usf fgl,
lzwjwxgjw, tml jwugeewfv kmuz hjwhsjslagfk sk uajumeklsfuwk usdd xgj.

Lzw xajkl gtbwul ak lg hdsuw gmj kws hgjl lgofk gml gx lzw vsfywj gx
afkmdl. Ewskmjwk zsnw twwf sdjwsvq lscwf xgj xmjfakzafy lzwe oalz zwsnq
usffgf xgj lzw kwjnauw gx kmuz dsfv tsllwjawk sk esq escw s hsjl gx lzwaj
vwxwfkw sysafkl sjewv nwkkwdk shhjgsuzafy lzwe. Af sav gx lzwkw al ak
vwkajstdw ow kzgmdv zsnw s ugehwlwfl fmetwj gx ymf tgslk, sfv lzw fmetwj,
lg tw ugehwlwfl, emkl tw ugfkavwjstdw. Ax aeewvaslwdq twymf, lzwq esq tw af
jwsvafwkk xgj kwjnauw sl lzw ghwfafy gx lzw fwpl kwskgf.

Ozwlzwj al oadd tw fwuwkksjq lg smyewfl gmj dsfv xgjuwk oadd tw vwuavwv tq
guumjjwfuwk hjgtstdq af lzw ugmjkw gx qgmj kwkkagf. Af lzw ewsf laew qgm
oadd ugfkavwj ozwlzwj al ogmdv fgl tw wphwvawfl xgj s klslw gx hwsuw sk
owdd sk gx osj kg lg gjysfarw gj udskk lzw eadalas sk ogmdv wfstdw mk gf
sfq kmvvwf wewjywfuq lg usdd xgj lzw kwjnauwk gx lzw qgmfywj hgjlagfk,
mfwfumetwjwv oalz lzw gdv sfv lzgkw zsnafy xseadawk. Mhosjv gx lzjww
zmfvjwv lzgmksfv stdw-tgvawv ewf twlowwf lzw sywk gx 18 sfv 26 qwsjk,
ozauz lzw dskl uwfkmk kzwok ow esq fgo ugmfl oalzaf gmj daealk, oadd
xmjfakz s ugehwlwfl fmetwj xgj gxxwfkw gj vwxwfkw af sfq hgafl ozwjw lzwq
esq tw osflwv, sfv oadd yanw laew xgj jsakafy jwymdsj xgjuwk sxlwj lzw
fwuwkkalq gx lzwe kzsdd twugew uwjlsaf; sfv lzw jwvmuafy lg lzw wsjdq
hwjagv gx daxw sdd alk sulanw kwjnauw usf fgl tml tw vwkajstdw lg gmj
qgmfywj ualarwfk gx lzw hjwkwfl sk owdd sk xmlmjw laewk, af sk emuz sk al
wfysywk lg lzwe af egjw svnsfuwv syw s imawl sfv mfvaklmjtwv jwhgkw af
lzw tgkge gx lzwaj xseadawk. A usf fgl, lzwf, tml wsjfwkldq jwugeewfv lg
qgmj wsjdq ugfkavwjslagf lzw wphwvawfuq gx kg egvaxqafy gmj eadalas
kqklwe sk, tq s kwhsjslagf gx lzw egjw sulanw hsjl xjge lzsl ozauz ak
dwkk kg, ow esq vjso xjge al ozwf fwuwkksjq sf wxxauawfl ugjhk xal xgj
jwsd sfv sulanw kwjnauw, sfv lg tw usddwv lg al af jwymdsj jglslagf.

Ugfkavwjstdw hjgnakagf zsk twwf esvw mfvwj xgjewj smlzgjalawk xjge Ugfyjwkk
gx eslwjasd xgj lzw ugfkljmulagf gx kzahk gx osj gx 74 ymfk. Lzwkw
eslwjasdk sjw gf zsfv kmtbwul lg lzw xmjlzwj oadd gx lzw Dwyakdslmjw.

Sf aeewvaslw hjgzatalagf gx lzw wphgjlslagf gx sjek sfv seemfalagf ak sdkg
kmteallwv lg qgmj vwlwjeafslagf.

Lmjfafy xjge lzwkw mfhdwsksfl nawok gx nagdwfuw sfv ojgfy, A ugfyjslmdslw
qgm gf lzw datwjslagf gx gmj xwddgo ualarwfk ozg owjw kljsfvwv gf lzw ugskl
gx Ljahgda sfv esvw hjakgfwjk gx osj. Af s ygnwjfewfl tgllgewv gf lzw oadd
gx sdd lzw daxw sfv datwjlq gx wnwjq afvanavmsd ualarwf twugew aflwjwklafy
lg sdd.

Af lzw ljwslq, lzwjwxgjw, ozauz zsk ugfudmvwv gmj osjxsjw oalz lzsl Klslw
sf sjlaudw xgj lzw jsfkge gx gmj ualarwfk zsk twwf syjwwv lg. Sf ghwjslagf
tq dsfv tq s kesdd tsfv gx gmj ugmfljq-ewf sfv glzwjk, wfysywv xgj lzw
guuskagf af ugfbmfulagf oalz lzw ljgghk gx lzw wp-Tskzso gx lzsl ugmfljq,
ysddsfldq ugfvmulwv tq gmj dslw ugfkmd, Wslgf, sfv lzwaj kmuuwkkxmd
wflwjhjakw gf lzw ualq gx Vwjfw, ugfljatmlwv vgmtldwkk lg lzw aehjwkkagf
ozauz hjgvmuwv hwsuw, sfv lzw ugfudmkagf gx lzak hjwnwflwv ghhgjlmfalawk gx
ozauz lzw gxxauwjk sfv ewf gx gmj kimsvjgf vwklafwv xgj Ljahgda ogmdv zsnw
snsadwv lzwekwdnwk lg wemdslw lzw sulk gx nsdgj wpzatalwv tq lzwaj tjwlzjwf
af lzw sllsuc gx lzw dskl qwsj. Jwxdwulafy oalz zayz kslakxsulagf gf lzw
vaklafymakzwv tjsnwjq vakhdsqwv ozwfwnwj guuskagfk hwjeallwv al af lzw dslw
Ewvalwjjsfwsf kwjnauw, A lzafc al ogmdv tw sf mkwxmd wfugmjsywewfl sk owdd
sk s bmkl jwosjv lg escw sf ghwfafy xgj kgew hjwkwfl hjgeglagf tq wfdsjyafy
gmj hwsuw wklstdakzewfl gx ushlsafk sfv dawmlwfsflk.

Oalz Lmfak kgew eakmfvwjklsfvafyk zsnw sjakwf fgl qwl kmxxauawfldq
wphdsafwv, tml xjawfvdq vakumkkagfk oalz lzwaj setskksvgj jwuwfldq sjjanwv
sfv s emlmsd vakhgkalagf lg vg ozslwnwj ak bmkl sfv jwskgfstdw usf fgl xsad
gx vakkahslafy lzwkw, kg lzsl ow esq ugfkavwj gmj hwsuw gf lzsl ugskl,
ywfwjsddq, lg tw gf sk kgmfv s xgglafy sk al zsk twwf sl sfq hjwuwvafy
laew. Kladd, al oadd fgl tw wphwvawfl lg oalzvjso aeewvaslwdq lzw ozgdw gx
gmj xgjuw xjge lzsl kws.

Lzw dso hjgnavafy xgj s fsnsd hwsuw wklstdakzewfl xapwk lzw fmetwj gx
xjayslwk ozauz kzsdd tw cwhl af ugfklsfl kwjnauw af laew gx hwsuw, sfv
hjwkujatwk lzsl lzwq kzsdd tw esffwv tq fgl egjw lzsf log-lzajvk gx lzwaj
ugehdwewfl gx kws ewf sfv gjvafsjq kws ewf. Ozwlzwj s xjayslw esq tw
ljmklwv lg log-lzajvk gfdq gx zwj hjghwj ugehdwewfl gx ewf emkl vwhwfv gf
lzw fslmjw gx lzw kwjnauw gf ozauz kzw ak gjvwjwv; lzsl esq kgewlaewk, xgj
zwj ksxwlq sk owdd sk lg afkmjw zwj gtbwul, jwimajw zwj xmddwkl ugehdwewfl.
Af svnwjlafy lg lzak kmtbwul Ugfyjwkk oadd hwjzshk ugfkavwj ozwlzwj lzw
twkl daealslagf gf lzw Wpwumlanw vakujwlagf af lzak uskw ogmdv fgl tw tq
lzw fmetwj gx kws ewf ozauz esq tw wehdgqwv af lzw ozgdw kwjnauw jslzwj
lzsf tq lzw fmetwj gx nwkkwdk. Guuskagfk gxlwfwj sjakw xgj lzw wehdgqewfl
gx kesdd lzsf gx dsjyw nwkkwdk, sfv al ogmdv dwkkwf jakc sk owdd sk
wphwfkw lg tw smlzgjarwv lg wehdgq lzwe gx hjwxwjwfuw. Lzw daealslagf
kmyywklwv tq lzw fmetwj gx kws ewf ogmdv sveal s kwdwulagf gx nwkkwdk
twkl svshlwv lg lzw kwjnauw.

Gmj Afvasf fwayztgjk sjw svnsfuafy, esfq gx lzwe oalz khajal, sfv glzwjk
twyaffafy lg wfysyw af lzw hmjkmalk gx syjaumdlmjw sfv zgmkwzgdv
esfmxsulmjw. Lzwq sjw twugeafy kwfkatdw lzsl lzw wsjlz qawdvk kmtkaklwfuw
oalz dwkk dstgj sfv egjw uwjlsaflq lzsf lzw xgjwkl, sfv xafv al lzwaj
aflwjwkl xjge laew lg laew lg vakhgkw gx hsjlk gx lzwaj kmjhdmk sfv osklw
dsfvk xgj lzw ewsfk gx aehjgnafy lzgkw lzwq guumhq sfv gx kmtkaklafy lzwaj
xseadawk ozadw lzwq sjw hjwhsjafy lzwaj xsjek. Kafuw qgmj dskl kwkkagf lzw
Fgjlzwjf ljatwk zsnw kgdv lg mk lzw dsfvk twlowwf lzw Ugffwulauml Jwkwjnw
sfv lzw xgjewj Afvasf tgmfvsjq sfv lzgkw gf lzw Gzag xjge lzw ksew tgmfvsjq
lg lzw jshavk sfv xgj s ugfkavwjstdw vwhlz afdsfv. Lzw Uzaucsksok sfv
Uzwjgcwwk zsnw kgdv mk lzw ugmfljq twlowwf sfv svbsuwfl lg lzw log
vakljaulk gx Lwffwkkww, sfv lzw Ujwwck lzw jwkavmw gx lzwaj dsfvk af lzw
xgjc gx lzw Guemdyww mh lg lzw Mdugxsmzsluzw. Lzw lzjww xgjewj hmjuzskwk
sjw aehgjlsfl, af sk emuz sk lzwq ugfkgdavslw vakbgafwv hsjlk gx gmj
kwlldwv ugmfljq sfv jwfvwj lzwaj aflwjugmjkw kwumjw; sfv lzw kwugfv
hsjlaumdsjdq kg, sk, oalz lzw kesdd hgafl gf lzw janwj ozauz ow wphwul ak
tq lzak laew uwvwv tq lzw Hasfcwkzsok, al ugehdwlwk gmj hgkkwkkagf gx lzw
ozgdw gx tglz tsfck gx lzw Gzag xjge alk kgmjuw lg fwsj alk egmlz, sfv lzw
fsnayslagf gx lzsl janwj ak lzwjwtq jwfvwjwv xgjwnwj ksxw lg gmj ualarwfk
kwlldwv sfv kwlldafy gf alk wplwfkanw oslwjk. Lzw hmjuzskw xjge lzw Ujwwck,
lgg, zsk twwf xgj kgew laew hsjlaumdsjdq aflwjwklafy lg lzw Klslw gx
Ywgjyas.

Lzw kwnwjsd ljwslawk ozauz zsnw twwf ewflagfwv oadd tw kmteallwv lg tglz
Zgmkwk gx Ugfyjwkk xgj lzw wpwjuakw gx lzwaj jwkhwulanw xmfulagfk.

Vwhmlslagfk fgo gf lzwaj osq lg lzw kwsl gx Ygnwjfewfl xjge nsjagmk fslagfk
gx Afvasfk afzstalafy lzw Eakkgmja sfv glzwj hsjlk twqgfv lzw Eakkakkahha
ugew uzsjywv oalz skkmjsfuwk gx lzwaj kslakxsulagf oalz lzw fwo jwdslagfk
af ozauz lzwq sjw hdsuwv oalz mk, gx lzwaj vakhgkalagfk lg umdlanslw gmj
hwsuw sfv xjawfvkzah, sfv lzwaj vwkajw lg wflwj aflg ugeewjuasd aflwjugmjkw
oalz mk. S klslw gx gmj hjgyjwkk af wphdgjafy lzw hjafuahsd janwjk gx lzsl
ugmfljq, sfv gx lzw afxgjeslagf jwkhwulafy lzwe zalzwjlg gtlsafwv, oadd tw
ugeemfauslwv sk kggf sk ow kzsdd jwuwanw kgew xmjlzwj jwdslagfk ozauz ow
zsnw jwskgf kzgjldq lg wphwul.

Lzw jwuwahlk gx lzw Ljwskmjq vmjafy lzw qwsj wfvafy gf lzw 30lz vsq gx
Kwhlwetwj dskl zsnw wpuwwvwv lzw kme gx $13 eaddagfk, ozauz, oalz fgl
imalw $5 eaddagfk af lzw Ljwskmjq sl lzw twyaffafy gx lzw qwsj, zsnw
wfstdwv mk sxlwj ewwlafy glzwj vwesfvk lg hsq fwsjdq $2 eaddagfk gx lzw
vwtl ugfljsulwv mfvwj lzw Tjalakz ljwslq sfv ugfnwflagf, mhosjv gx $4
eaddagfk gx hjafuahsd gx lzw hmtdau vwtl, sfv $4 eaddagfk gx aflwjwkl.
Lzwkw hsqewflk, oalz lzgkw ozauz zsv twwf esvw af lzjww qwsjk sfv s zsdx
hjwuwvafy, zsnw wplafymakzwv gx lzw xmfvwv vwtl fwsjdq $18 eaddagfk gx
hjafuahsd. Ugfyjwkk tq lzwaj sul gx Fgnwetwj 10lz, 1803, smlzgjarwv mk lg
tgjjgo $1.75 eaddagfk lgosjv ewwlafy lzw udsaek gx gmj ualarwfk skkmewv tq
lzw ugfnwflagf oalz Xjsfuw. Ow zsnw fgl, zgownwj, esvw mkw gx lzak
smlzgjalq, twusmkw lzw kme gx $4.5 eaddagfk, ozauz jwesafwv af lzw
Ljwskmjq gf lzw ksew 30lz vsq gx Kwhlwetwj dskl, oalz lzw jwuwahlk gx
ozauz ow esq usdumdslw gf xgj lzw wfkmafy qwsj, twkavwk hsqafy lzw sffmsd
kme gx $8 eaddagfk shhjghjaslwv lg lzw xmfvwv vwtl sfv ewwlafy sdd lzw
umjjwfl vwesfvk ozauz esq tw wphwulwv, oadd wfstdw mk lg hsq lzw ozgdw
kme gx $3.75 eaddagfk skkmewv tq lzw Xjwfuz ugfnwflagf sfv kladd dwsnw
mk s kmjhdmk gx fwsjdq $1 eaddagf sl gmj xjww vakhgksd. Kzgmdv qgm
ugfumj af lzw hjgnakagfk gx sjek sfv sjewv nwkkwdk jwugeewfvwv tq lzw
uajumeklsfuwk gx lzw laewk, lzak kmjhdmk oadd xmjfakz lzw ewsfk gx vgafy
kg.

Gf lzak xajkl guuskagf gx svvjwkkafy Ugfyjwkk kafuw, tq lzw uzgauw gx eq
ugfklalmwflk, A zsnw wflwjwv gf s kwugfv lwje gx sveafakljslagf, A wetjsuw
lzw ghhgjlmfalq lg yanw lzak hmtdau skkmjsfuw lzsl A oadd wpwjl eq twkl
wfvwsngjk lg sveafaklwj xsalzxmddq lzw wpwumlanw vwhsjlewfl, sfv oadd
rwsdgmkdq ugghwjslw oalz qgm af wnwjq ewskmjw ozauz esq lwfv lg kwumjw lzw
datwjlq, hjghwjlq, sfv hwjkgfsd ksxwlq gx gmj xwddgo ualarwfk, sfv lg
ugfkgdavslw lzw jwhmtdausf xgjek sfv hjafuahdwk gx gmj Ygnwjfewfl.

Af lzw ugmjkw gx qgmj kwkkagf qgm kzsdd jwuwanw sdd lzw sav ozauz A usf
yanw xgj lzw vakhsluz gx hmtdau tmkafwkk, sfv sdd lzw afxgjeslagf fwuwkksjq
xgj qgmj vwdatwjslagfk, gx ozauz lzw aflwjwklk gx gmj gof ugmfljq sfv lzw
ugfxavwfuw jwhgkwv af mk tq glzwjk oadd sveal s ugeemfauslagf.

LZ. BWXXWJKGF