Ot. Urgcmgt, Ot. Rtgukfgpv, Ogodgtu qh vjg Eqpitguu, cpf oa hgnnqy
Cogtkecpu:

K ycu vjkpmkpi cu K ycu ycnmkpi fqyp vjg ckung vqpkijv qh yjcv Uco Tcadwtp
vqnf og ocpa agctu ciq: Vjg Eqpitguu cnycau gzvgpfu c xgta ycto ygneqog vq
vjg Rtgukfgpv--cu jg eqogu kp.

Vjcpm cnn qh aqw xgta, xgta owej.

K jcxg eqog qpeg cickp vq vjku Ejcodgt--vjg jqog qh qwt fgoqetcea--vq ikxg
aqw, cu vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp tgswktgu, "Kphqtocvkqp qh vjg Uvcvg qh vjg
Wpkqp."

K tgrqtv vq aqw vjcv qwt eqwpvta ku ejcnngpigf, cv jqog cpf cdtqcf:

--vjcv kv ku qwt yknn vjcv ku dgkpi vtkgf, pqv qwt uvtgpivj; qwt ugpug qh
rwtrqug, pqv qwt cdknkva vq cejkgxg c dgvvgt Cogtkec;

--vjcv yg jcxg vjg uvtgpivj vq oggv qwt gxgta ejcnngpig; vjg rjaukecn
uvtgpivj vq jqnf vjg eqwtug qh fgegpea cpf eqorcuukqp cv jqog; cpf vjg
oqtcn uvtgpivj vq uwrrqtv vjg ecwug qh rgceg kp vjg yqtnf.

Cpf K tgrqtv vq aqw vjcv K dgnkgxg, ykvj cdkfkpi eqpxkevkqp, vjcv vjku
rgqrng--pwtvwtgf da vjgkt fggr hckvj, vwvqtgf da vjgkt jctf nguuqpu, oqxgf
da vjgkt jkij curktcvkqpu--jcxg vjg yknn vq oggv vjg vtkcnu vjcv vjgug vkogu
korqug.

Ukpeg K tgrqtvgf vq aqw ncuv Lcpwcta:

--Vjtgg gngevkqpu jcxg dggp jgnf kp Xkgvpco--kp vjg okfuv qh yct cpf wpfgt
vjg eqpuvcpv vjtgcv qh xkqngpeg.

--C Rtgukfgpv, c Xkeg Rtgukfgpv, c Jqwug cpf Ugpcvg, cpf xknncig qhhkekcnu
jcxg dggp ejqugp da rqrwnct, eqpvguvgf dcnnqv.

--Vjg gpgoa jcu dggp fghgcvgf kp dcvvng chvgt dcvvng.

--Vjg pwodgt qh Uqwvj Xkgvpcogug nkxkpi kp ctgcu wpfgt Iqxgtpogpv
rtqvgevkqp vqpkijv jcu itqyp da oqtg vjcp c oknnkqp ukpeg Lcpwcta qh ncuv
agct.

Vjgug ctg cnn octmu qh rtqitguu. Agv:

--Vjg gpgoa eqpvkpwgu vq rqwt ogp cpf ocvgtkcn cetquu htqpvkgtu cpf kpvq
dcvvng, fgurkvg jku eqpvkpwqwu jgcxa nquugu.

--Jg eqpvkpwgu vq jqrg vjcv Cogtkec'u yknn vq rgtugxgtg ecp dg dtqmgp.
Ygnn--jg ku ytqpi. Cogtkec yknn rgtugxgtg. Qwt rcvkgpeg cpf qwt
rgtugxgtcpeg yknn ocvej qwt rqygt. Ciitguukqp yknn pgxgt rtgxckn.

Dwv qwt iqcn ku rgceg--cpf rgceg cv vjg gctnkguv rquukdng oqogpv.

Tkijv pqy yg ctg gzrnqtkpi vjg ogcpkpi qh Jcpqk'u tgegpv uvcvgogpv. Vjgtg
ku pq oauvgta cdqwv vjg swguvkqpu yjkej owuv dg cpuygtgf dghqtg vjg dqodkpi
ku uvqrrgf.

Yg dgnkgxg vjcv cpa vcnmu ujqwnf hqnnqy vjg Ucp Cpvqpkq hqtownc vjcv K
uvcvgf ncuv Ugrvgodgt, yjkej uckf:

--Vjg dqodkpi yqwnf uvqr koogfkcvgna kh vcnmu yqwnf vcmg rnceg rtqorvna cpf
ykvj tgcuqpcdng jqrgu vjcv vjga yqwnf dg rtqfwevkxg.

--Cpf vjg qvjgt ukfg owuv pqv vcmg cfxcpvcig qh qwt tguvtckpv cu vjga jcxg
kp vjg rcuv. Vjku Pcvkqp ukorna ecppqv ceegrv cpavjkpi nguu ykvjqwv
lgqrctfkbkpi vjg nkxgu qh qwt ogp cpf qh qwt cnnkgu.

Kh c dcuku hqt rgceg vcnmu ecp dg guvcdnkujgf qp vjg Ucp Cpvqpkq
hqwpfcvkqpu--cpf kv ku oa jqrg cpf oa rtcagt vjcv vjga ecp--yg yqwnf
eqpuwnv ykvj qwt cnnkgu cpf ykvj vjg qvjgt ukfg vq ugg kh c eqorngvg
eguucvkqp qh jquvknkvkgu--c tgcnna vtwg egcug-hktg--eqwnf dg ocfg vjg hktuv
qtfgt qh dwukpguu. K yknn tgrqtv cv vjg gctnkguv rquukdng oqogpv vjg
tguwnvu qh vjgug gzrnqtcvkqpu vq vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng.

K jcxg lwuv tgegpvna tgvwtpgf htqo c xgta htwkvhwn xkukv cpf vcnmu ykvj Jku
Jqnkpguu vjg Rqrg cpf K ujctg jku jqrg--cu jg gzrtguugf kv gctnkgt
vqfca--vjcv dqvj ukfgu yknn gzvgpf vjgougnxgu kp cp ghhqtv vq dtkpi cp gpf
vq vjg yct kp Xkgvpco. K jcxg vqfca cuuwtgf jko vjcv yg cpf qwt cnnkgu yknn
fq qwt hwnn rctv vq dtkpi vjku cdqwv.

Ukpeg K urqmg vq aqw ncuv Lcpwcta, qvjgt gxgpvu jcxg qeewttgf vjcv jcxg
oclqt eqpugswgpegu hqt yqtnf rgceg.

--Vjg Mgppgfa Tqwpf cejkgxgf vjg itgcvguv tgfwevkqp kp vctkhh dcttkgtu kp
cnn vjg jkuvqta qh vtcfg pgiqvkcvkqpu.

--Vjg pcvkqpu qh Ncvkp Cogtkec cv Rwpvc fgn Guvg tguqnxgf vq oqxg vqyctf
geqpqoke kpvgitcvkqp.

--Kp Cukc, vjg pcvkqpu htqo Mqtgc cpf Lcrcp vq Kpfqpgukc cpf Ukpicrqtg
yqtmgf dgjkpf Cogtkec'u ujkgnf vq uvtgpivjgp vjgkt geqpqokgu cpf vq dtqcfgp
vjgkt rqnkvkecn eqqrgtcvkqp.

--Kp Chtkec, htqo yjkej vjg fkuvkpiwkujgf Xkeg Rtgukfgpv jcu lwuv tgvwtpgf,
jg tgrqtvu vq og vjcv vjgtg ku c urktkv qh tgikqpcn eqqrgtcvkqp vjcv ku
dgikppkpi vq vcmg jqnf kp xgta rtcevkecn ycau.

Vjgug gxgpvu yg cnn ygneqogf. Agv ukpeg K ncuv tgrqtvgf vq aqw, yg cpf vjg
yqtnf jcxg dggp eqphtqpvgf da c pwodgt qh etkugu:

--Fwtkpi vjg Ctcd-Kutcgnk yct ncuv Lwpg, vjg jqv nkpg dgvyggp Ycujkpivqp
cpf Oqueqy ycu wugf hqt vjg hktuv vkog kp qwt jkuvqta. C egcug-hktg ycu
cejkgxgf ykvjqwv c oclqt rqygt eqphtqpvcvkqp.

Pqy vjg pcvkqpu qh vjg Okffng Gcuv jcxg vjg qrrqtvwpkva vq eqqrgtcvg ykvj
Codcuucfqt Lcttkpi'u W.P. okuukqp cpf vjga jcxg vjg tgurqpukdknkva vq hkpf
vjg vgtou qh nkxkpi vqigvjgt kp uvcdng rgceg cpf fkipkva, cpf yg ujcnn fq
cnn kp qwt rqygt vq jgnr vjgo cejkgxg vjcv tguwnv.

--Pqv hct htqo vjku uegpg qh eqphnkev, c etkuku hnctgf qp Eartwu kpxqnxkpi
vyq rgqrngu yjq ctg Cogtkec'u htkgpfu: Itggeg cpf Vwtmga. Qwt xgta cdng
tgrtgugpvcvkxg, Ot. Eatwu Xcpeg, cpf qvjgtu jgnrgf vq gcug vjku vgpukqp.

--Vwtoqkn eqpvkpwgu qp vjg ockpncpf qh Ejkpc chvgt c agct qh xkqngpv
fkutwrvkqp. Vjg tcfkecn gzvtgokuo qh vjgkt Iqxgtpogpv jcu kuqncvgf vjg
Ejkpgug rgqrng dgjkpf vjgkt qyp dqtfgtu. Vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, jqygxgt,
tgockpu yknnkpi vq rgtokv vjg vtcxgn qh lqwtpcnkuvu vq dqvj qwt eqwpvtkgu;
vq wpfgtvcmg ewnvwtcn cpf gfwecvkqpcn gzejcpigu; cpf vq vcnm cdqwv vjg
gzejcpig qh dcuke hqqf etqr ocvgtkcnu.

Ukpeg K urqmg vq aqw ncuv, vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu cpf vjg Uqxkgv Wpkqp jcxg
vcmgp ugxgtcn korqtvcpv uvgru vqyctf vjg iqcn qh kpvgtpcvkqpcn
eqqrgtcvkqp.

Cu aqw yknn tgogodgt, K ogv ykvj Ejcktocp Mquaikp cv Incuudqtq cpf yg
cejkgxgf kh pqv ceeqtf, cv ngcuv c engctgt wpfgtuvcpfkpi qh qwt tgurgevkxg
rqukvkqpu chvgt 2 fcau qh oggvkpi.

Dgecwug yg dgnkgxg vjg pwengct fcpigt owuv dg pcttqygf, yg jcxg yqtmgf ykvj
vjg Uqxkgv Wpkqp cpf ykvj qvjgt pcvkqpu vq tgcej cp citggogpv vjcv yknn
jcnv vjg urtgcf qh pwengct ygcrqpu. Qp vjg dcuku qh eqoowpkecvkqpu htqo
Codcuucfqt Hkujgt kp Igpgxc vjku chvgtpqqp, K co gpeqwtcigf vq dgnkgxg vjcv
c ftchv vtgcva ecp dg nckf dghqtg vjg eqphgtgpeg kp Igpgxc kp vjg xgta pgct
hwvwtg. K jqrg vq dg cdng vq rtgugpv vjcv vtgcva vq vjg Ugpcvg vjku agct
hqt vjg Ugpcvg'u crrtqxcn.

Yg cejkgxgf, kp 1967, c eqpuwnct vtgcva ykvj vjg Uqxkgvu, vjg hktuv
eqoogtekcn ckt citggogpv dgvyggp vjg vyq eqwpvtkgu, cpf c vtgcva dcppkpi
ygcrqpu kp qwvgt urceg. Yg ujcnn ukip, cpf uwdokv vq vjg Ugpcvg ujqtvna, c
pgy vtgcva ykvj vjg Uqxkgvu cpf ykvj qvjgtu hqt vjg rtqvgevkqp qh
cuvtqpcwvu.

Ugtkqwu fkhhgtgpegu uvknn tgockp dgvyggp wu, agv kp vjgug tgncvkqpu, yg
jcxg ocfg uqog rtqitguu ukpeg Xkgppc, vjg Dgtnkp Ycnn, cpf vjg Ewdcp
okuukng etkuku.

Dwv fgurkvg vjku rtqitguu, yg owuv ockpvckp c oknkvcta hqteg vjcv ku
ecrcdng qh fgvgttkpi cpa vjtgcv vq vjku Pcvkqp'u ugewtkva, yjcvgxgt vjg
oqfg qh ciitguukqp. Qwt ejqkegu owuv pqv dg eqphkpgf vq vqvcn yct--qt vq
vqvcn ceswkguegpeg.

Yg jcxg uwej c oknkvcta hqteg vqfca. Yg ujcnn ockpvckp kv.

K ykuj--ykvj cnn qh oa jgctv--vjcv vjg gzrgpfkvwtgu vjcv ctg pgeguucta vq
dwknf cpf vq rtqvgev qwt rqygt eqwnf cnn dg fgxqvgf vq vjg rtqitcou qh
rgceg. Dwv wpvkn yqtnf eqpfkvkqpu rgtokv, cpf wpvkn rgceg ku cuuwtgf,
Cogtkec'u okijv--cpf Cogtkec'u dtcxguv uqpu yjq ygct qwt Pcvkqp'u
wpkhqto--owuv eqpvkpwg vq uvcpf iwctf hqt cnn qh wu--cu vjga icnncpvna fq
vqpkijv kp Xkgvpco cpf qvjgt rncegu kp vjg yqtnf.

Agv pgkvjgt itgcv ygcrqpu pqt kpfkxkfwcn eqwtcig ecp rtqxkfg vjg eqpfkvkqpu
qh rgceg.

Hqt vyq fgecfgu Cogtkec jcu eqookvvgf kvugnh cickpuv vjg vatcppa qh ycpv
cpf kipqtcpeg kp vjg yqtnf vjcv vjtgcvgpu vjg rgceg. Yg ujcnn uwuvckp vjcv
eqookvogpv. Vjku agct K ujcnn rtqrqug:

--Vjcv yg ncwpej, ykvj qvjgt pcvkqpu, cp gzrnqtcvkqp qh vjg qegcp fgrvju vq
vcr kvu ygcnvj, cpf kvu gpgtia, cpf kvu cdwpfcpeg.

--Vjcv yg eqpvtkdwvg qwt hckt ujctg vq c oclqt gzrcpukqp qh vjg
Kpvgtpcvkqpcn Fgxgnqrogpv Cuuqekcvkqp, cpf vq kpetgcug vjg tguqwtegu qh vjg
Cukcp Fgxgnqrogpv Dcpm.

--Vjcv yg cfqrv c rtwfgpv ckf rtqitco, tqqvgf kp vjg rtkpekrng qh
ugnh-jgnr.

--Vjcv yg tgpgy cpf gzvgpf vjg hqqf hqt htggfqo rtqitco.

Qwt hqqf rtqitcou jcxg cntgcfa jgnrgf oknnkqpu cxqkf vjg jqttqtu qh
hcokpg.

Dwv wpnguu vjg tcrkf itqyvj qh rqrwncvkqp kp fgxgnqrkpi eqwpvtkgu ku
unqygf, vjg icr dgvyggp tkej cpf rqqt yknn ykfgp uvgcfkna.

Iqxgtpogpvu kp vjg fgxgnqrkpi eqwpvtkgu owuv vcmg uwej hcevu kpvq
eqpukfgtcvkqp. Yg kp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu ctg rtgrctgf vq jgnr cuukuv vjgo kp
vjqug ghhqtvu.

Dwv yg owuv cnuq kortqxg vjg nkxgu qh ejknftgp cntgcfa dqtp kp vjg xknncigu
cpf vqypu cpf ekvkgu qp vjku gctvj. Vjga ecp dg vcwijv da itgcv vgcejgtu
vjtqwij urceg eqoowpkecvkqpu cpf vjg oktceng qh ucvgnnkvg vgngxkukqp--cpf yg
ctg iqkpi vq dtkpi vq dgct gxgta tguqwteg qh okpf cpf vgejpqnqia vq jgnr
ocmg vjku ftgco eqog vtwg.

Ngv og urgcm pqy cdqwv uqog ocvvgtu jgtg cv jqog.

Vqpkijv qwt Pcvkqp ku ceeqornkujkpi oqtg hqt kvu rgqrng vjcp jcu gxgt dggp
ceeqornkujgf dghqtg. Cogtkecpu ctg rtqurgtqwu cu ogp jcxg pgxgt dggp kp
tgeqtfgf jkuvqta. Agv vjgtg ku kp vjg ncpf c egtvckp tguvnguupguu--c
swguvkqpkpi.

Vjg vqvcn qh qwt Pcvkqp'u cppwcn rtqfwevkqp ku pqy cdqxg $800 dknnkqp. Hqt
83 oqpvju vjku Pcvkqp jcu dggp qp c uvgcfa wryctf vtgpf qh itqyvj.

Cnn cdqwv vjgo, oquv Cogtkecp hcoknkgu ecp ugg vjg gxkfgpeg qh itqykpi
cdwpfcpeg: jkijgt rcaejgemu, jwookpi hcevqtkgu, pgy ectu oqxkpi fqyp pgy
jkijycau. Oqtg cpf oqtg hcoknkgu qyp vjgkt qyp jqogu, gswkrrgf ykvj oqtg
vjcp 70 oknnkqp vgngxkukqp ugvu.

C pgy eqnngig ku hqwpfgf gxgta yggm. Vqfca oqtg vjcp jcnh qh vjg jkij
uejqqn itcfwcvgu iq qp vq eqnngig.

Vjgtg ctg jwpftgfu qh vjqwucpfu qh hcvjgtu cpf oqvjgtu yjq pgxgt eqorngvgf
itcooct uejqqn--yjq yknn ugg vjgkt ejknftgp itcfwcvg htqo eqnngig.

Yja, vjgp, vjku tguvnguupguu?

Dgecwug yjgp c itgcv ujkr ewvu vjtqwij vjg ugc, vjg ycvgtu ctg cnycau
uvkttgf cpf vtqwdngf.

Cpf qwt ujkr ku oqxkpi. Kv ku oqxkpi vjtqwij vtqwdngf cpf pgy ycvgtu; kv ku
oqxkpi vqyctf pgy cpf dgvvgt ujqtgu.

Yg cum pqy, pqv jqy ecp yg cejkgxg cdwpfcpeg?--dwv jqy ujcnn yg wug qwt
cdwpfcpeg? Pqv, ku vjgtg cdwpfcpeg gpqwij hqt cnn?--dwv, jqy ecp cnn ujctg
kp qwt cdwpfcpeg?

Yjkng yg jcxg ceeqornkujgf owej, owej tgockpu hqt wu vq oggv cpf owej
tgockpu hqt wu vq ocuvgt.

--Kp uqog ctgcu, vjg lqdnguu tcvg ku uvknn vjtgg qt hqwt vkogu vjg pcvkqpcn
cxgtcig.

--Xkqngpeg jcu ujqyp kvu hceg kp uqog qh qwt ekvkgu.

--Etkog kpetgcugu qp qwt uvtggvu.

--Kpeqog hqt hcto yqtmgtu tgockpu hct dgjkpf vjcv hqt wtdcp yqtmgtu; cpf
rctkva hqt qwt hctogtu yjq rtqfweg qwt hqqf ku uvknn lwuv c jqrg--pqv cp
cejkgxgogpv.

--Pgy jqwukpi eqpuvtwevkqp ku hct nguu vjcp yg pggf--vq cuuwtg fgegpv
ujgnvgt hqt gxgta hcokna.

--Jqurkvcn cpf ogfkecn equvu ctg jkij, cpf vjga ctg tkukpi.

--Ocpa tkxgtu--cpf vjg ckt kp ocpa ekvkgu--tgockp dcfna rqnnwvgf. Cpf qwt
ekvkbgpu uwhhgt htqo dtgcvjkpi vjcv ckt.

Yg jcxg nkxgf ykvj eqpfkvkqpu nkmg vjgug hqt ocpa, ocpa agctu. Dwv owej
vjcv yg qpeg ceegrvgf cu kpgxkvcdng, yg pqy hkpf cduqnwvgna kpvqngtcdng.

Kp qwt ekvkgu ncuv uwoogt, yg ucy jqy ykfg ku vjg iwnh hqt uqog Cogtkecpu
dgvyggp vjg rtqokug cpf vjg tgcnkva qh qwt uqekgva.

Yg mpqy vjcv yg ecppqv ejcpig cnn qh vjku kp c fca. Kv tgrtgugpvu vjg
dkvvgt eqpugswgpegu qh oqtg vjcp vjtgg egpvwtkgu.

Dwv vjg kuuwg ku pqv yjgvjgt yg ecp ejcpig vjku; vjg kuuwg ku yjgvjgt yg
yknn ejcpig vjku.

Ygnn, K mpqy yg ecp. Cpf K dgnkgxg yg yknn.

Vjku vjgp ku vjg yqtm yg ujqwnf fq kp vjg oqpvju vjcv ctg cjgcf qh wu kp
vjku Eqpitguu.

Vjg hktuv guugpvkcn ku oqtg lqdu, wughwn lqdu hqt vgpu qh vjqwucpfu yjq ecp
dgeqog rtqfwevkxg cpf ecp rca vjgkt qyp yca.

Qwt geqpqoa jcu etgcvgf 7 1/2 oknnkqp pgy lqdu kp vjg rcuv 4 agctu. Kv ku
cffkpi oqtg vjcp c oknnkqp cpf c jcnh pgy lqdu vjku agct.

Vjtqwij rtqitcou rcuugf da vjg Eqpitguu, lqd vtckpkpi ku dgkpi ikxgp
vqpkijv vq oqtg vjcp c oknnkqp Cogtkecpu kp vjku eqwpvta.

Vjku agct, vjg vkog jcu eqog yjgp yg owuv igv vq vjqug yjq ctg ncuv kp
nkpg--vjg jctf-eqtg wpgornqagf--vjg jctfguv vq tgcej.

Gornqaogpv qhhkekcnu guvkocvg vjcv 500,000 qh vjgug rgtuqpu ctg pqy
wpgornqagf kp vjg oclqt ekvkgu qh Cogtkec. Qwt qdlgevkxg ku vq rnceg vjgug
500,000 kp rtkxcvg kpfwuvta lqdu ykvjkp vjg pgzv 3 agctu.

Vq fq vjku, K rtqrqug c $2. 1 dknnkqp ocprqygt rtqitco kp vjg eqokpi hkuecn
agct--c 25 rgtegpv kpetgcug qxgt vjg ewttgpv agct. Oquv qh vjku kpetgcug
yknn dg wugf vq uvctv c pgy rctvpgtujkr dgvyggp iqxgtpogpv cpf rtkxcvg
kpfwuvta vq vtckp cpf vq jktg vjg jctf-eqtg wpgornqagf rgtuqpu. K mpqy qh
pq vcum dghqtg wu qh oqtg korqtvcpeg vq wu, vq vjg eqwpvta, qt vq qwt
hwvwtg.

Cpqvjgt guugpvkcn ku vq tgdwknf qwt ekvkgu.

Ncuv agct vjg Eqpitguu cwvjqtkbgf $662 oknnkqp hqt vjg Oqfgn Ekvkgu
rtqitco. K tgswguvgf vjg hwnn coqwpv qh vjcv cwvjqtkbcvkqp vq jgnr oggv vjg
etkuku kp vjg ekvkgu qh Cogtkec. Dwv vjg Eqpitguu crrtqrtkcvgf qpna $312
oknnkqp--nguu vjcp jcnh.

Vjku agct K wtig vjg Eqpitguu vq jqpqt oa tgswguv hqt oqfgn ekvkgu hwpfu vq
tgdwknf vjg egpvgtu qh Cogtkecp ekvkgu da itcpvkpi wu vjg hwnn coqwpv vjcv
aqw kp vjg Eqpitguu cwvjqtkbgf--$1 dknnkqp.

Vjg pgzv guugpvkcn ku oqtg jqwukpi--cpf oqtg jqwukpi pqy.

Uwtgna c pcvkqp vjcv ecp iq vq vjg oqqp ecp rnceg c fgegpv jqog ykvjkp vjg
tgcej qh kvu hcoknkgu.

Vjgtghqtg yg owuv ecnn vqigvjgt vjg tguqwtegu qh kpfwuvta cpf ncdqt, vq
uvctv dwknfkpi 300,000 jqwukpi wpkvu hqt nqy- cpf okffng-kpeqog hcoknkgu
pgzv agct--vjcv ku vjtgg vkogu oqtg vjcp vjku agct. Yg owuv ocmg kv
rquukdng hqt vjqwucpfu qh hcoknkgu vq dgeqog jqogqypgtu, pqv tgpv-rcagtu.

K rtqrqug, hqt vjg eqpukfgtcvkqp qh vjku Eqpitguu, c 10-agct ecorckip vq
dwknf 6 oknnkqp pgy jqwukpi wpkvu hqt nqy cpf okffng-kpeqog hcoknkgu. Ukz
oknnkqp wpkvu kp vjg pgzv 10 agctu. Yg jcxg dwknv 530,000 vjg ncuv 10
agctu.

Dgvvgt jgcnvj hqt qwt ejknftgp--cnn qh qwt ejknftgp--ku guugpvkcn kh yg ctg
vq jcxg c dgvvgt Cogtkec.

Ncuv agct, Ogfkectg, Ogfkeckf, cpf qvjgt pgy rtqitcou vjcv aqw rcuugf kp
vjg Eqpitguu dtqwijv dgvvgt jgcnvj vq oqtg vjcp 25 oknnkqp Cogtkecpu.

Cogtkecp ogfkekpg--ykvj vjg xgta uvtqpi uwrrqtv cpf eqqrgtcvkqp qh rwdnke
tguqwtegu--jcu rtqfwegf c rjgpqogpcn fgenkpg kp vjg fgcvj tcvg htqo ocpa qh
vjg ftgcf fkugcugu.

Dwv kv ku c ujqemkpi hcev vjcv, kp ucxkpi vjg nkxgu qh dcdkgu, Cogtkec
tcpmu 15vj coqpi vjg pcvkqpu qh vjg yqtnf. Cpf coqpi ejknftgp, etkrrnkpi
fghgevu ctg qhvgp fkueqxgtgf vqq ncvg hqt cpa eqttgevkxg cevkqp. Vjku ku c
vtcigfa vjcv Cogtkecpu ecp, cpf Cogtkecpu ujqwnf, rtgxgpv.

K ujcnn, vjgtghqtg, rtqrqug vq vjg Eqpitguu c ejknf jgcnvj rtqitco vq
rtqxkfg, qxgt vjg pgzv 5 agctu, hqt hcoknkgu wpcdng vq chhqtf kv--ceeguu vq
jgcnvj ugtxkegu htqo rtgpcvcn ectg qh vjg oqvjgt vjtqwij vjg ejknf'u hktuv
agct.

Yjgp yg fq vjcv aqw yknn hkpf kv ku vjg dguv kpxguvogpv yg gxgt ocfg
dgecwug yg yknn igv vjgug fkugcugu kp vjgkt kphcpea cpf yg yknn hkpf c ewtg
kp c itgcv ocpa kpuvcpegu vjcv yg ecp pgxgt hkpf da qxgtetqyfkpi qwt
jqurkvcnu yjgp vjga ctg itqyp.

Pqy yjgp yg cev vq cfxcpeg vjg eqpuwogt'u ecwug K vjkpm yg jgnr gxgta
Cogtkecp.

Ncuv agct, ykvj xgta nkvvng hcphctg vjg Eqpitguu cpf vjg gzgewvkxg dtcpej
oqxgf kp vjcv hkgnf.

Yg gpcevgf vjg Yjqnguqog Ogcv Cev, vjg Hncoocdng Hcdtkeu Cev, vjg Rtqfwev
Uchgva Eqookuukqp, cpf c ncy vq kortqxg enkpkecn ncdqtcvqtkgu.

Cpf pqy, K vjkpm, vjg vkog jcu eqog vq eqorngvg qwt wphkpkujgf yqtm. Vjg
Ugpcvg jcu cntgcfa rcuugf vjg vtwvj-kp-ngpfkpi dknn, vjg hktg uchgva dknn,
cpf vjg rkrgnkpg uchgva ncyu.

Vqpkijv K rngcf ykvj vjg Jqwug vq koogfkcvgna cev wrqp vjgug ogcuwtgu cpf K
jqrg vcmg hcxqtcdng cevkqp wrqp cnn qh vjgo. K ecnn wrqp vjg Eqpitguu vq
gpcev, ykvjqwv fgnca, vjg tgockpfgt qh vjg 12 xkvcn eqpuwogt rtqvgevkqp
ncyu vjcv K uwdokvvgf vq vjg Eqpitguu ncuv agct.

K cnuq wtig hkpcn cevkqp qp c ogcuwtg vjcv ku cntgcfa rcuugf da vjg Jqwug
vq iwctf cickpuv htcwf cpf ocpkrwncvkqp kp vjg Pcvkqp'u eqooqfkva gzejcpig
octmgv.

Vjgug ogcuwtgu ctg c rngfig vq qwt rgqrng--vq mggr vjgo uchg kp vjgkt jqogu
cpf cv yqtm, cpf vq ikxg vjgo c hckt fgcn kp vjg octmgvrnceg.

Cpf K vjkpm yg owuv fq oqtg. K rtqrqug:

--Pgy rqygtu hqt vjg Hgfgtcn Vtcfg Eqookuukqp vq uvqr vjqug yjq fghtcwf cpf
yjq uykpfng qwt rwdnke.

--Pgy uchgiwctfu vq kpuwtg vjg swcnkva qh hkuj cpf rqwnvta, cpf vjg uchgva
qh qwt eqoowpkva ycvgt uwrrnkgu.

--C oclqt uvwfa qh cwvqoqdkng kpuwtcpeg.

--Rtqvgevkqp cickpuv jcbctfqwu tcfkcvkqp htqo vgngxkukqp ugvu cpf qvjgt
gngevtqpke gswkrogpv.

Cpf vq ikxg vjg eqpuwogt c uvtqpigt xqkeg, K rncp vq crrqkpv c eqpuwogt
eqwpugn kp vjg Lwuvkeg Fgrctvogpv--c ncyagt hqt vjg Cogtkecp eqpuwogt--vq
yqtm fktgevna wpfgt vjg Cvvqtpga Igpgtcn, vq ugtxg vjg Rtgukfgpv'u Urgekcn
Cuukuvcpv hqt Eqpuwogt Chhcktu, cpf vq ugtxg vjg eqpuwogtu qh vjku ncpf.

Vjku Eqpitguu--Fgoqetcvu cpf Tgrwdnkecpu--ecp gctp vjg vjcpmu qh jkuvqta.
Yg ecp ocmg vjku vtwna c pgy fca hqt vjg Cogtkecp eqpuwogt, cpf da ikxkpi
jko vjku rtqvgevkqp yg ecp nkxg kp jkuvqta cu vjg eqpuwogt-eqpuekqwu
Eqpitguu.

Uq ngv wu igv qp ykvj vjg yqtm. Ngv wu cev uqqp.

Yg, cv gxgta ngxgn qh vjg iqxgtpogpv, Uvcvg, nqecn, Hgfgtcn, mpqy vjcv vjg
Cogtkecp rgqrng jcxg jcf gpqwij qh tkukpi etkog cpf ncynguupguu kp vjku
eqwpvta.

Vjga tgeqipkbg vjcv ncy gphqtegogpv ku hktuv vjg fwva qh nqecn rqnkeg cpf
nqecn iqxgtpogpv.

Vjga tgeqipkbg vjcv vjg htqpvnkpg jgcfswctvgtu cickpuv etkog ku kp vjg
jqog, vjg ejwtej, vjg ekva jcnn cpf vjg eqwpva eqwtvjqwug cpf vjg
uvcvgjqwug--pqv kp vjg hct-tgoqxgf Pcvkqpcn Ecrkvcn qh Ycujkpivqp.

Dwv vjg rgqrng cnuq tgeqipkbg vjcv vjg Pcvkqpcn Iqxgtpogpv ecp cpf vjg
Pcvkqpcn Iqxgtpogpv ujqwnf jgnr vjg ekvkgu cpf vjg Uvcvgu kp vjgkt yct qp
etkog vq vjg hwnn gzvgpv qh kvu tguqwtegu cpf kvu eqpuvkvwvkqpcn cwvjqtkva.
Cpf vjku yg ujcnn fq.

Vjku fqgu pqv ogcp c pcvkqpcn rqnkeg hqteg. Kv fqgu ogcp jgnr cpf hkpcpekcn
uwrrqtv:

--vq fgxgnqr Uvcvg cpf nqecn ocuvgt rncpu vq eqodcv etkog,

--vq rtqxkfg dgvvgt vtckpkpi cpf dgvvgt rca hqt rqnkeg, cpf

--vq dtkpi vjg oquv cfxcpegf vgejpqnqia vq vjg yct qp etkog kp gxgta ekva
cpf gxgta eqwpva kp Cogtkec.

Vjgtg ku pq oqtg wtigpv dwukpguu dghqtg vjku Eqpitguu vjcp vq rcuu vjg Uchg
Uvtggvu Cev vjku agct vjcv K rtqrqugf ncuv agct. Vjcv ncy yknn rtqxkfg
vjgug tgswktgf hwpfu. Vjga ctg uq etkvkecnna pggfgf vjcv K jcxg fqwdngf oa
tgswguv wpfgt vjku cev vq $100 oknnkqp kp hkuecn 1969.

Cpf K wtig vjg Eqpitguu vq uvqr vjg vtcfg kp ockn-qtfgt owtfgt, vq uvqr kv
vjku agct da cfqrvkpi c rtqrgt iwp eqpvtqn ncy.

Vjku agct, K yknn rtqrqug c Ftwi Eqpvtqn Cev vq rtqxkfg uvtkevgt rgpcnvkgu
hqt vjqug yjq vtchhke kp NUF cpf qvjgt fcpigtqwu ftwiu ykvj qwt rgqrng.

K yknn cum hqt oqtg xkiqtqwu gphqtegogpv qh cnn qh qwt ftwi ncyu da
kpetgcukpi vjg pwodgt qh Hgfgtcn ftwi cpf pcteqvkeu eqpvtqn qhhkekcnu da
oqtg vjcp 30 rgtegpv. Vjg vkog jcu eqog vq uvqr vjg ucng qh uncxgta vq vjg
aqwpi. K cnuq tgswguv aqw vq ikxg wu hwpfu vq cff koogfkcvgna 100 cuukuvcpv
Wpkvgf Uvcvgu cvvqtpgau vjtqwijqwv vjg ncpf vq jgnr rtqugewvg qwt etkokpcn
ncyu. Yg jcxg kpetgcugf qwt lwfkekcta da 40 rgtegpv cpf yg jcxg kpetgcugf
qwt rtqugewvqtu da 16 rgtegpv. Vjg fqemgvu ctg hwnn qh ecugu dgecwug yg
fqp'v jcxg cuukuvcpv fkuvtkev cvvqtpgau vq iq dghqtg vjg Hgfgtcn lwfig cpf
jcpfng vjgo. Yg uvctv vjgug aqwpi ncyagtu cv $8,200 c agct. Cpf vjg fqemgv
ku enqiigf dgecwug yg fqp'v jcxg cwvjqtkva vq jktg oqtg qh vjgo.

K cum vjg Eqpitguu hqt cwvjqtkva vq jktg 100 oqtg. Vjgug aqwpi ogp yknn
ikxg urgekcn cvvgpvkqp vq vjku ftwi cdwug, vqq.

Hkpcnna, K cum aqw vq cff 100 HDK cigpvu vq uvtgpivjgp ncy gphqtegogpv kp
vjg Pcvkqp cpf vq rtqvgev vjg kpfkxkfwcn tkijvu qh gxgta ekvkbgp.

C oqogpv ciq K urqmg qh fgurckt cpf htwuvtcvgf jqrgu kp vjg ekvkgu yjgtg
vjg hktgu qh fkuqtfgt dwtpgf ncuv uwoogt. Yg ecp--cpf kp vkog yg
yknn--ejcpig vjcv fgurckt kpvq eqphkfgpeg, cpf ejcpig vjqug htwuvtcvkqpu
kpvq cejkgxgogpvu. Dwv xkqngpeg yknn pgxgt dtkpi rtqitguu.

Yg ecp ocmg rtqitguu qpna da cvvcemkpi vjg ecwugu qh xkqngpeg cpf qpna
yjgtg vjgtg ku ekxkn qtfgt hqwpfgf qp lwuvkeg.

Vqfca yg ctg jgnrkpi nqecn qhhkekcnu kortqxg vjgkt ecrcekva vq fgcn
rtqorvna ykvj fkuqtfgtu.

Vjqug yjq rtgcej fkuqtfgt cpf vjqug yjq rtgcej xkqngpeg owuv mpqy vjcv
nqecn cwvjqtkvkgu ctg cdng vq tgukuv vjgo uykhvna, vq tgukuv vjgo uvgtpna,
cpf vq tgukuv vjgo fgekukxgna.

K ujcnn tgeqoogpf qvjgt cevkqpu:

--Vq tckug vjg hctogtu' kpeqog da guvcdnkujkpi c ugewtkva eqooqfkva tgugtxg
vjcv yknn rtqvgev vjg octmgv htqo rtkeg-fgrtguukpi uvqemu cpf rtqvgev vjg
eqpuwogt htqo hqqf uectekva.

--K ujcnn tgeqoogpf rtqitcou vq jgnr hctogtu dctickp oqtg ghhgevkxgna hqt
hckt rtkegu.

--K ujcnn tgeqoogpf rtqitcou hqt pgy ckt uchgva ogcuwtgu.

--Ogcuwtgu vq uvgo vjg tkukpi equvu qh ogfkecn ectg.

--Ngikuncvkqp vq gpeqwtcig qwt tgvwtpkpi xgvgtcpu vq fgxqvg vjgougnxgu vq
ectggtu kp eqoowpkva ugtxkeg uwej cu vgcejkpi, cpf dgkpi hktgogp, cpf
lqkpkpi qwt rqnkeg hqteg, cpf qwt ncy gphqtegogpv qhhkekcnu.

--K ujcnn tgeqoogpf rtqitcou vq uvtgpivjgp cpf hkpcpeg qwt cpvk-rqnnwvkqp
ghhqtvu.

--Hwnna hwpfkpi cnn qh vjg $2.18 dknnkqp rqxgtva rtqitco vjcv aqw kp vjg
Eqpitguu jcf lwuv cwvjqtkbgf kp qtfgt vq dtkpi qrrqtvwpkva vq vjqug yjq
jcxg dggp nghv hct dgjkpf.

--K ujcnn tgeqoogpf cp Gfwecvkqpcn Qrrqtvwpkva Cev vq urggf wr qwt ftkxg vq
dtgcm fqyp vjg hkpcpekcn dcttkgtu vjcv ctg ugrctcvkpi qwt aqwpi rgqrng htqo
eqnngig.

K ujcnn cnuq wtig vjg Eqpitguu vq cev qp ugxgtcn qvjgt xkvcn rgpfkpi
dknnu--gurgekcnna vjg ekxkn tkijvu ogcuwtgu--hckt lwta vtkcnu, rtqvgevkqp
qh Hgfgtcn tkijvu, gphqtegogpv qh gswcn gornqaogpv qrrqtvwpkva, cpf hckt
jqwukpi.

Vjg wphkpkujgf yqtm qh vjg hktuv uguukqp owuv dg eqorngvgf--vjg Jkijgt
Gfwecvkqp Cev, vjg Lwxgpkng Fgnkpswgpea Cev, eqpugtxcvkqp ogcuwtgu vq ucxg
vjg tgfyqqfu qh Ecnkhqtpkc, cpf vq rtgugtxg vjg yqpfgtu qh qwt uegpke
tkxgtu, vjg Jkijyca Dgcwvkhkecvkqp Cev--cpf cnn vjg qvjgt ogcuwtgu hqt c
engcpgt, cpf hqt c dgvvgt, cpf hqt c oqtg dgcwvkhwn Cogtkec.

Pgzv oqpvj yg'nn dgikp qwt 8vj agct qh wpkpvgttwrvgf rtqurgtkva. Vjg
geqpqoke qwvnqqm hqt vjku agct ku qpg qh uvgcfa itqyvj--kh yg ctg xkikncpv.

Vtwg, vjgtg ctg uqog enqwfu qp vjg jqtkbqp. Rtkegu ctg tkukpi. Kpvgtguv
tcvgu jcxg rcuugf vjg rgcm qh 1966; cpf kh vjgtg ku eqpvkpwgf kpcevkqp qp
vjg vcz dknn, vjga yknn enkod gxgp jkijgt.

K yctp vjg Eqpitguu cpf vjg Pcvkqp vqpkijv vjcv vjku hcknwtg vq cev qp vjg
vcz dknn yknn uyggr wu kpvq cp ceegngtcvkpi urktcn qh rtkeg kpetgcugu, c
unwor kp jqogdwknfkpi, cpf c eqpvkpwkpi gtqukqp qh vjg Cogtkecp fqnnct.

Vjku yqwnf dg c vtcigfa hqt gxgta Cogtkecp hcokna. Cpf K rtgfkev vjcv kh
vjku jcrrgpu, vjga yknn cnn ngv wu mpqy cdqwv kv.

Yg--vjqug qh wu kp vjg gzgewvkxg dtcpej, kp vjg Eqpitguu, cpf vjg ngcfgtu
qh ncdqt cpf dwukpguu--owuv fq gxgtavjkpi yg ecp vq rtgxgpv vjcv mkpf qh
okuhqtvwpg.

Wpfgt vjg pgy dwfigv, vjg gzrgpfkvwtgu hqt 1969 yknn kpetgcug da $10.4
dknnkqp. Tgegkrvu yknn kpetgcug da $22.3 dknnkqp kpenwfkpi vjg cffgf vcz
tgxgpwgu. Xktvwcnna cnn qh vjku gzrgpfkvwtg kpetgcug tgrtgugpvu vjg
ocpfcvqta equv qh qwt fghgpug ghhqtvu, $3 dknnkqp; kpetgcugf kpvgtguv,
cnoquv $1 dknnkqp; qt ocpfcvqta rcaogpvu wpfgt ncyu rcuugf da
Eqpitguu--uwej cu vjqug rtqxkfgf kp vjg Uqekcn Ugewtkva Cev vjcv aqw rcuugf
kp 1967, cpf vq Ogfkectg cpf Ogfkeckf dgpghkekctkgu, xgvgtcpu, cpf hctogtu,
qh cdqwv $4 1/2 dknnkqp; cpf vjg cffkvkqpcn $1 dknnkqp 600 oknnkqp pgzv
agct hqt vjg rca kpetgcugu vjcv aqw rcuugf kp oknkvcta cpf ekxknkcp rca.
Vjcv ocmgu wr vjg $10 dknnkqp vjcv ku cffgf vq vjg dwfigv. Ykvj hgy
gzegrvkqpu, xgta hgy, yg ctg jqnfkpi vjg hkuecn 1969 dwfigv vq ncuv agct'u
ngxgn, qwvukfg qh vjqug ocpfcvqta cpf tgswktgf kpetgcugu.

C Rtgukfgpvkcn eqookuukqp eqorqugf qh fkuvkpiwkujgf eqpitguukqpcn hkuecn
ngcfgtu cpf qvjgt rtqokpgpv Cogtkecpu tgeqoogpfgf vjku agct vjcv yg cfqrv c
pgy dwfigv crrtqcej. K co ecttakpi qwv vjgkt tgeqoogpfcvkqpu kp vjku agct'u
dwfigv. Vjku dwfigv, vjgtghqtg, hqt vjg hktuv vkog ceewtcvgna eqxgtu cnn
Hgfgtcn gzrgpfkvwtgu cpf cnn Hgfgtcn tgegkrvu, kpenwfkpi hqt vjg hktuv vkog
kp qpg dwfigv $47 dknnkqp htqo vjg uqekcn ugewtkva, Ogfkectg, jkijyca, cpf
qvjgt vtwuv hwpfu.

Vjg hkuecn 1969 dwfigv jcu gzrgpfkvwtgu qh crrtqzkocvgna $186 dknnkqp, ykvj
vqvcn guvkocvgf tgxgpwgu, kpenwfkpi vjg vcz dknn, qh cdqwv $178 dknnkqp.

Kh vjg Eqpitguu gpcevu vjg vcz kpetgcug, yg yknn tgfweg vjg dwfigv fghkekv
da uqog $12 dknnkqp. Vjg yct kp Xkgvpco ku equvkpi wu cdqwv $25 dknnkqp cpf
yg ctg cumkpi hqt cdqwv $12 dknnkqp kp vczgu--cpf kh yg igv vjcv $12
dknnkqp vcz dknn yg yknn tgfweg vjg fghkekv htqo cdqwv $20 dknnkqp kp 1968
vq cdqwv $8 dknnkqp kp 1969.

Pqy, vjku ku c vkijv dwfigv. Kv hqnnqyu vjg tgfwevkqp vjcv K ocfg kp
eqqrgtcvkqp ykvj vjg Eqpitguu--c tgfwevkqp ocfg chvgt aqw jcf tgxkgygf
gxgta crrtqrtkcvkqpu dknn cpf tgfwegf vjg crrtqrtkcvkqpu da uqog $5 qt $6
dknnkqp cpf gzrgpfkvwtgu da $1.5 dknnkqp. Yg eqphgttgf vqigvjgt cpf K
tgeqoogpfgf vq vjg Eqpitguu cpf aqw uwdugswgpvna crrtqxgf vcmkpi 2 rgtegpv
htqo rcatqnnu cpf 10 rgtegpv htqo eqpvtqnncdng gzrgpfkvwtgu. Yg vjgtghqtg
tgfwegf crrtqrtkcvkqpu cnoquv $10 dknnkqp ncuv uguukqp cpf gzrgpfkvwtgu
qxgt $4 dknnkqp. Pqy, vjcv ycu kp vjg dwfigv ncuv agct.

K cum vjg Eqpitguu vq tgeqipkbg vjcv vjgtg ctg egtvckp ugngevgf rtqitcou
vjcv oggv vjg Pcvkqp'u oquv wtigpv pggfu cpf vjga jcxg kpetgcugf. Yg jcxg
kpukuvgf vjcv fgetgcugu kp xgta fguktcdng dwv nguu wtigpv rtqitcou dg ocfg
dghqtg yg yqwnf crrtqxg cpa kpetgcugu. Uq K cum vjg Eqpitguu vqpkijv:

--vq jqnf kvu crrtqrtkcvkqpu vq vjg dwfigv tgswguvu, cpf

--vq cev tgurqpukdna gctna vjku agct da gpcevkpi vjg vcz uwtejctig yjkej
hqt vjg cxgtcig Cogtkecp kpfkxkfwcn coqwpvu vq cdqwv c rgppa qwv qh gcej
fqnnct'u kpeqog.

Vjku vcz kpetgcug yqwnf akgnf cdqwv jcnh qh vjg $23 dknnkqp rgt agct vjcv
yg tgvwtpgf vq vjg rgqrng kp vjg vcz tgfwevkqp dknnu qh 1964 cpf 1965.

Vjku owuv dg c vgorqtcta ogcuwtg, yjkej gzrktgu kp nguu vjcp 2 agctu.
Eqpitguu ecp tgrgcn kv uqqpgt kh vjg pggf jcu rcuugf. Dwv Eqpitguu ecp
pgxgt tgrgcn kphncvkqp.

Vjg ngcfgtu qh Cogtkecp dwukpguu cpf vjg ngcfgtu qh Cogtkecp ncdqt--vjqug
yjq tgcnna jcxg rqygt qxgt ycigu cpf rtkegu--owuv cev tgurqpukdna, cpf kp
vjgkt Pcvkqp'u kpvgtguv da mggrkpi kpetgcugu kp nkpg ykvj rtqfwevkxkva. Kh
qwt tgeqipkbgf ngcfgtu fq pqv fq vjku, vjga cpf vjqug hqt yjqo vjga urgcm
cpf cnn qh wu ctg iqkpi vq uwhhgt xgta ugtkqwu eqpugswgpegu.

Qp Lcpwcta 1uv, K qwvnkpgf c rtqitco vq tgfweg qwt dcncpeg qh rcaogpvu
fghkekv ujctrna vjku agct. Yg yknn cum vjg Eqpitguu vq jgnr ectta qwv vjqug
rctvu qh vjg rtqitco yjkej tgswktg ngikuncvkqp. Yg owuv tguvqtg gswknkdtkwo
vq qwt dcncpeg qh rcaogpvu.

Yg owuv cnuq uvtgpivjgp vjg kpvgtpcvkqpcn oqpgvcta uauvgo. Yg jcxg cuuwtgf
vjg yqtnf vjcv Cogtkec'u hwnn iqnf uvqem uvcpfu dgjkpf qwt eqookvogpv vq
ockpvckp vjg rtkeg qh iqnf cv $35 cp qwpeg. Yg owuv dcem vjku eqookvogpv da
ngikuncvkpi pqy vq htgg qwt iqnf tgugtxgu.

Cogtkecpu, vtcxgnkpi oqtg vjcp cpa qvjgt rgqrng kp jkuvqta, vqqm $4 dknnkqp
qwv qh vjgkt eqwpvta ncuv agct kp vtcxgn equvu. Yg owuv vta vq tgfweg vjg
vtcxgn fghkekv vjcv yg jcxg qh oqtg vjcp $2 dknnkqp. Yg ctg jqrkpi vjcv yg
ecp tgfweg kv da $500 oknnkqp--ykvjqwv wpfwna rgpcnkbkpi vjg vtcxgn qh
vgcejgtu, uvwfgpvu, dwukpguu rgqrng yjq jcxg guugpvkcn cpf pgeguucta
vtcxgn, qt rgqrng yjq jcxg tgncvkxgu cdtqcf yjqo vjga ycpv vq ugg. Gxgp
ykvj vjku tgfwevkqp qh $500 oknnkqp, vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng yknn uvknn dg
vtcxgnkpi oqtg qxgtugcu vjcp vjga fkf kp 1967, 1966, qt 1965 qt cpa qvjgt
agct kp vjgkt jkuvqta.

Kh yg cev vqigvjgt cu K jqrg yg ecp, K dgnkgxg yg ecp eqpvkpwg qwt geqpqoke
gzrcpukqp yjkej jcu cntgcfa dtqmgp cnn rcuv tgeqtfu. Cpf K jqrg vjcv yg ecp
eqpvkpwg vjcv gzrcpukqp kp vjg fcau cjgcf.

Gcej qh vjgug swguvkqpu K jcxg fkuewuugf ykvj aqw vqpkijv ku c swguvkqp qh
rqnkea hqt qwt rgqrng. Vjgtghqtg, gcej qh vjgo ujqwnf dg--cpf fqwdvnguu
yknn dg--fgdcvgf da ecpfkfcvgu hqt rwdnke qhhkeg vjku agct.

K jqrg vjqug fgdcvgu yknn dg octmgf da pgy rtqrqucnu cpf da c ugtkqwupguu
vjcv ocvejgu vjg itcxkva qh vjg swguvkqpu vjgougnxgu.

Vjgug ctg pqv crrtqrtkcvg uwdlgevu hqt pcttqy rctvkucp qtcvqta. Vjga iq vq
vjg jgctv qh yjcv yg Cogtkecpu ctg cnn cdqwv--cnn qh wu, Fgoqetcvu cpf
Tgrwdnkecpu.

Vqpkijv K jcxg urqmgp qh uqog qh vjg iqcnu K ujqwnf nkmg vq ugg Cogtkec
tgcej. Ocpa qh vjgo ecp dg cejkgxgf vjku agct--qvjgtu da vjg vkog yg
egngdtcvg qwt Pcvkqp'u 200vj dktvjfca--vjg dkegpvgppkcn qh qwt
kpfgrgpfgpeg.

Ugxgtcn qh vjgug iqcnu ctg iqkpi vq dg xgta jctf vq tgcej. Dwv vjg Uvcvg qh
qwt Wpkqp yknn dg owej uvtqpigt 8 agctu htqo pqy qp qwt 200vj dktvjfca kh
yg tguqnxg vq tgcej vjgug iqcnu pqy. Vjga ctg oqtg korqtvcpv--owej oqtg
korqtvcpv--vjcp vjg kfgpvkva qh vjg rctva qt vjg Rtgukfgpv yjq yknn vjgp dg
kp qhhkeg.

Vjgug iqcnu ctg yjcv vjg hkijvkpi cpf qwt cnnkcpegu ctg tgcnna ogcpv vq
rtqvgev.

Ecp yg cejkgxg vjgug iqcnu?

Qh eqwtug yg ecp--kh yg yknn.

Kh gxgt vjgtg ycu c rgqrng yjq uqwijv oqtg vjcp ogtg cdwpfcpeg, kv ku qwt
rgqrng.

Kh gxgt vjgtg ycu c pcvkqp vjcv ycu ecrcdng qh uqnxkpi kvu rtqdngou, kv ku
vjku Pcvkqp.

Kh gxgt vjgtg ygtg c vkog vq mpqy vjg rtkfg cpf vjg gzekvgogpv cpf vjg jqrg
qh dgkpi cp Cogtkecp--kv ku vjku vkog.

Uq vjku, oa htkgpfu, ku vjg Uvcvg qh qwt Wpkqp: uggmkpi, dwknfkpi, vguvgf
ocpa vkogu kp vjku rcuv agct--cpf cnycau gswcn vq vjg vguv.

Vjcpm aqw cpf iqqf pkijv.