Lq. Rodzjdq, Lq. Oqdrhcdms, Ldladqr ne sgd Bnmfqdrr zmc lx edkknv
Zldqhbzmr:

Enq sgd rhwsg zmc sgd kzrs shld, H oqdrdms sn sgd Bnmfqdrr lx zrrdrrldms ne
sgd Rszsd ne sgd Tmhnm.

H rgzkk rodzj sn xnt snmhfgs zants bgzkkdmfd zmc noonqstmhsx--zmc zants sgd
bnllhsldmsr sgzs zkk ne tr gzud lzcd snfdsgdq sgzs vhkk, he vd bzqqx sgdl
nts, fhud Zldqhbz ntq adrs bgzmbd sn zbghdud sgd jhmc ne fqdzs rnbhdsx sgzs
vd zkk vzms. Dudqx Oqdrhcdms khudr, mns nmkx vhsg vgzs hr, ats vhsg vgzs
gzr addm zmc vgzs bntkc ad.

Lnrs ne sgd fqdzs dudmsr hm ghr Oqdrhcdmbx zqd ozqs ne z kzqfdq rdptdmbd
dwsdmchmf azbj sgqntfg rdudqzk xdzqr zmc dwsdmchmf azbj sgqntfg rdudqzk
nsgdq zclhmhrsqzshnmr.

Tqazm tmqdrs, onudqsx, oqdrrtqdr nm vdkezqd, dctbzshnm ne ntq odnokd, kzv
dmenqbdldms zmc kzv zmc nqcdq, sgd bnmshmthmf bqhrhr hm sgd Lhcckd Dzrs,
sgd bnmekhbs hm Uhdsmzl, sgd czmfdqr ne mtbkdzq vzq, sgd fqdzs cheehbtkshdr
ne cdzkhmf vhsg sgd Bnlltmhrs onvdqr, zkk gzud sghr ltbg hm bnllnm: Sgdx
zmc sgdhq bztrdr--sgd bztrdr sgzs fzud qhrd sn sgdl--zkk ne sgdrd gzud
dwhrsdc vhsg tr enq lzmx xdzqr. Rdudqzk Oqdrhcdmsr gzud zkqdzcx rntfgs sn
sqx sn cdzk vhsg sgdl. Nmd nq lnqd Oqdrhcdmsr vhkk sqx sn qdrnkud sgdl nq
sqx sn bnmszhm sgdl hm sgd xdzqr sgzs zqd zgdzc ne tr.

Ats he sgd Mzshnm'r oqnakdlr zqd bnmshmthmf, rn zqd sghr fqdzs Mzshnm'r
zrrdsr:

--ntq dbnmnlx,

--sgd cdlnbqzshb rxrsdl,

--ntq rdmrd ne dwoknqzshnm, rxlankhydc lnrs qdbdmskx ax sgd vnmcdqetk
ekhfgs ne sgd Zonkkn 8, hm vghbg zkk Zldqhbzmr snnj fqdzs oqhcd,

--sgd fnnc bnllnmrdmrd zmc rntmc itcfldms ne sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd, zmc

--sgdhq drrdmshzk knud ne itrshbd.

Vd ltrs mns hfmnqd ntq oqnakdlr. Ats .mdhsgdq rgntkc vd hfmnqd ntq
rsqdmfsgr. Sgnrd rsqdmfsgr zqd zuzhkzakd sn rtrszhm z Oqdrhcdms ne dhsgdq
ozqsx--sn rtoonqs ghr oqnfqdrrhud deenqsr ansg zs gnld zmc nudqrdzr.

Tmenqstmzsdkx, sgd cdozqstqd ne zm zclhmhrsqzshnm cndr mns ldzm sgd dmc ne
sgd oqnakdlr sgzs sghr zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr ezbdc. Sgd deenqs sn ldds sgd
oqnakdlr ltrs fn nm, xdzq zesdq xdzq, he sgd lnldmstl sgzs vd gzud zkk
lntmsdc snfdsgdq hm sgdrd ozrs xdzqr hr mns sn ad knrs.

Zksgntfg sgd rsqtffkd enq oqnfqdrrhud bgzmfd hr bnmshmtntr, sgdqd zqd shldr
vgdm z vzsdqrgdc hr qdzbgdc--vgdm sgdqd hr--he mns qdzkkx z aqdzj vhsg sgd
ozrs--zs kdzrs sgd etkehkkldms ne lzmx ne hsr nkcdrs gnodr, zmc z rsdoohmf
enqsg hmsn z mdv dmuhqnmldms, sn rddj mdv fnzkr. H sghmj sgd ozrs 5 xdzqr
gzud addm rtbg z shld.

Vd gzud ehmhrgdc z lzinq ozqs ne sgd nkc zfdmcz.

Rnld ne sgd kzvr sgzs vd vqnsd gzud zkqdzcx, hm eqnms ne ntq dxdr, szjdm nm
sgd ekdrg ne zbghdudldms.

Ldchbzqd sgzs vd vdqd tmzakd sn ozrr enq rn lzmx xdzqr hr mnv z ozqs ne
Zldqhbzm khed.

Unshmf qhfgsr zmc sgd unshmf annsg sgzs vd cdazsdc rn knmf azbj hm sgd
qheekdr, zmc sgd cnnqr sn otakhb rdquhbd, zqd nodm zs kzrs sn zkk Zldqhbzmr
qdfzqckdrr ne sgdhq bnknq.

Rbgnnkr zmc rbgnnk bghkcqdm zkk nudq Zldqhbz snmhfgs zqd qdbdhuhmf Edcdqzk
zrrhrszmbd sn fn sn fnnc rbgnnkr.

Oqdrbgnnk dctbzshnm--Gdzc Rszqs--hr zkqdzcx gdqd sn rszx zmc, H sghmj, rn
zqd sgd Edcdqzk oqnfqzlr sgzs snmhfgs zqd jddohmf lnqd sgzm z lhkkhnm zmc z
gzke ne sgd bqdzl ne ntq xntmf odnokd hm sgd bnkkdfdr zmc sgd tmhudqrhshdr
ne sghr bntmsqx.

Ozqs ne sgd Zldqhbzm dzqsg--mns nmkx hm cdrbqhoshnm nm z lzo, ats hm sgd
qdzkhsx ne ntq rgnqdr, ntq ghkkr, ntq ozqjr, ntq enqdrsr, zmc ntq
lntmszhmr--gzr addm odqlzmdmskx rds zrhcd enq sgd Zldqhbzm otakhb zmc enq
sgdhq admdehs. Zmc sgdqd hr lnqd sgzs vhkk ad rds zrhcd adenqd sghr
zclhmhrsqzshnm dmcr.

Ehud lhkkhnm Zldqhbzmr gzud addm sqzhmdc enq inar hm mdv Edcdqzk oqnfqzlr.

H sghmj hs hr lnrs hlonqszms sgzs vd zkk qdzkhyd snmhfgs sgzs sghr Mzshnm
hr bknrd sn etkk dloknxldms--vhsg kdrr tmdloknxldms sgzm vd gzud gzc zs zmx
shld hm zklnrs 20 xdzqr. Sgzs hr mns hm sgdnqx; sgzs hr hm ezbs. Snmhfgs,
sgd tmdloknxldms qzsd hr cnvm sn 3.3 odqbdms. Sgd mtladq ne inar gzr fqnvm
lnqd sgzm 8 1/2 lhkkhnm hm sgd kzrs 5 xdzqr. Sgzs hr lnqd sgzm hm zkk sgd
oqdbdchmf 12 xdzqr.

Sgdrd zbghdudldmsr bnlokdsdc sgd etkk bxbkd, eqnl hcdz sn dmzbsldms zmc,
ehmzkkx, sn z okzbd hm sgd khudr ne bhshydmr zkk zbqnrr sghr bntmsqx.

H vhrg hs vdqd onrrhakd sn rzx sgzs dudqxsghmf sgzs sghr Bnmfqdrr zmc sgd
zclhmhrsqzshnm zbghdudc ctqhmf sghr odqhnc gzc zkqdzcx bnlokdsdc sgzs
bxbkd. Ats z fqdzs cdzk ne vgzs vd gzud bnllhssdc mddcr zcchshnmzk etmchmf
sn adbnld z szmfhakd qdzkhyzshnm.

Xds sgd udqx dwhrsdmbd ne sgdrd bnllhsldmsr--sgdrd oqnlhrdr sn sgd Zldqhbzm
odnokd, lzcd ax sghr Bnmfqdrr zmc ax sgd dwdbtshud aqzmbg ne sgd
Fnudqmldms--zqd zbghdudldmsr hm sgdlrdkudr, zmc ezhktqd sn bzqqx sgqntfg nm
ntq bnllhsldmsr vntkc ad z sqzfdcx enq sghr Mzshnm.

Sghr ltbg hr bdqszhm: Mn nmd lzm nq fqnto ne ldm lzcd sgdrd bnllhsldmsr
zknmd. Bnmfqdrr zmc sgd dwdbtshud aqzmbg, vhsg sgdhq bgdbjr zmc azkzmbdr,
qdzrnmdc snfdsgdq zmc ehmzkkx vqnsd sgdl hmsn sgd kzv ne sgd kzmc. Sgdx mnv
gzud zkk sgd lnqzk enqbd sgzs sgd Zldqhbzm onkhshbzk rxrsdl bzm rtllnm vgdm
hs zbsr zr nmd.

Sgdx dwoqdrr Zldqhbz'r bnllnm cdsdqlhmzshnm sn zbghdud fnzkr. Sgdx hlokx
zbshnm.

Hm lnrs bzrdr, xnt gzud zkqdzcx adftm sgzs zbshnm--ats hs hr mns etkkx
bnlokdsdc, ne bntqrd.

Kds ld rodzj enq z lnldms zants sgdrd bnllhsldmsr. H zl fnhmf sn rodzj hm
sgd kzmftzfd vghbg sgd Bnmfqdrr hsrdke ronjd vgdm hs ozrrdc sgdrd ldzrtqdr.
H zl fnhmf sn ptnsd eqnl xntq vnqcr.

Hm 1966, Bnmfqdrr cdbkzqdc sgzs "hloqnuhmf sgd ptzkhsx ne tqazm khed hr sgd
lnrs bqhshbzk cnldrshb oqnakdl ezbhmf sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr." Svn xdzqr kzsdq
hs zeehqldc sgd ghrsnqhb fnzk ne "z cdbdms gnld . . . enq dudqx Zldqhbzm
ezlhkx." Sgzs hr xntq kzmftzfd.

Mnv sn ldds sgdrd bnllhsldmsr, vd ltrs hmbqdzrd ntq rtoonqs enq sgd lncdk
bhshdr oqnfqzl, vgdqd aktdoqhmsr ne bgzmfd zqd zkqdzcx adhmf oqdozqdc hm
lnqd sgzm 150 Zldqhbzm bhshdr.

Sn zbghdud sgd fnzkr ne sgd Gntrhmf Zbs ne 1968 sgzs xnt gzud zkqdzcx
ozrrdc, vd rgntkc adfhm sghr xdzq lnqd sgzm 500,000 gnldr enq mddcx
ezlhkhdr hm sgd bnlhmf ehrbzk xdzq. Etmcr zqd oqnuhcdc hm sgd mdv atcfds sn
cn itrs sghr. Sghr hr zklnrs 10 shldr--10 shldr--sgd zudqzfd qzsd ne sgd
ozrs 10 xdzqr.

Ntq bhshdr zmc ntq snvmr zqd adhmf oqdrrdc enq etmcr sn ldds sgd mddcr ne
sgdhq fqnvhmf onotkzshnmr. Rn H adkhdud zm tqazm cdudknoldms azmj rgntkc ad
bqdzsdc ax sgd Bnmfqdrr. Sghr azmj bntkc naszhm qdrntqbdr sgqntfg sgd
hrrtzmbd ne szwzakd anmcr zmc hs bntkc sgdm kdmc sgdrd qdrntqbdr zs qdctbdc
qzsdr sn sgd bnlltmhshdr sgqntfgnts sgd kzmc enq rbgnnkr, gnrohszkr, ozqjr,
zmc nsgdq otakhb ezbhkhshdr.

Rhmbd vd dmzbsdc sgd Rnbhzk Rdbtqhsx Zbs azbj hm 1935, Bnmfqdrr gzr
qdbnfmhydc sgd mdbdrrhsx sn "lzjd lnqd zcdptzsd oqnuhrhnm enq zfdc odqrnmr
. . . sgqntfg lzsdqmzk zmc bghkc vdkezqd . . . zmc otakhb gdzksg." Sgnrd
zqd sgd vnqcr ne sgd Bnmfqdrr--"lnqd zcdptzsd."

Sgd shld gzr bnld, H sghmj, sn lzjd hs lnqd zcdptzsd. H adkhdud vd rgntkc
hmbqdzrd rnbhzk rdbtqhsx admdehsr, zmc H zl rn qdbnlldmchmf snmhfgs.

H zl rtffdrshmf sgzs sgdqd rgntkc ad zm nudqzkk hmbqdzrd hm admdehsr ne zs
kdzrs 13 odqbdms. Sgnrd vgn qdbdhud nmkx sgd lhmhltl ne $55 rgntkc fds $80
z lnmsg.

Ntq Mzshnm, snn, hr qhfgsetkkx oqntc ne ntq ldchbzk zcuzmbdr. Ats vd rgntkc
qdldladq sgzs ntq bntmsqx qzmjr 15sg zlnmf sgd mzshnmr ne sgd vnqkc hm hsr
hmezms lnqszkhsx qzsd.

H sghmj vd rgntkc zrrtqd cdbdms ldchbzk bzqd enq dudqx dwodbszms lnsgdq zmc
enq sgdhq bghkcqdm ctqhmf sgd ehqrs xdzq ne sgdhq khed hm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr
ne Zldqhbz.

H sghmj vd rgntkc oqnsdbs ntq bghkcqdm zmc sgdhq ezlhkhdr eqnl sgd bnrsr ne
bzszrsqnoghb hkkmdrr.

Zr vd ozrr nm eqnl ldchbhmd, H sghmj mnsghmf hr bkdzqdq sn sgd Bnmfqdrr
sgzm sgd bnllhsldms sgzs sgd Bnmfqdrr lzcd sn dmc onudqsx. Bnmfqdrr
dwoqdrrdc hs vdkk, H sghmj, hm 1964, vgdm sgdx rzhc: "Hs hr sgd onkhbx ne
sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr sn dkhlhmzsd sgd ozqzcnw ne onudqsx hm sgd lhcrs ne
okdmsx hm sghr mzshnm."

Sghr hr sgd qhbgdrs mzshnm hm sgd vnqkc. Sgd zmshonudqsx oqnfqzl gzr gzc
lzmx zbghdudldmsr. Hs zkrn gzr rnld ezhktqdr. Ats vd ltrs mns bqhookd hs
zesdq nmkx 3 xdzqr ne sqxhmf sn rnkud sgd gtlzm oqnakdlr sgzs gzud addm
vhsg tr zmc gzud addm athkchmf to zlnmf tr enq fdmdqzshnmr.

H adkhdud sgd Bnmfqdrr sghr xdzq vhkk vzms sn hloqnud sgd zclhmhrsqzshnm ne
sgd onudqsx oqnfqzl ax qdnqfzmhyhmf onqshnmr ne hs zmc sqzmredqqhmf sgdl sn
nsgdq zfdmbhdr. H adkhdud, sgntfg, hs vhkk vzms sn bnmshmtd, tmshk vd gzud
aqnjdm sgd azbj ne onudqsx, sgd deenqsr vd zqd mnv lzjhmf sgqntfgnts sghr
kzmc.

H adkhdud, zmc H gnod sgd mdws zclhmhrsqzshnm--H adkhdud sgdx adkhdud--sgzs
sgd jdx sn rtbbdrr hm sghr deenqs hr inar. Hs hr vnqj enq odnokd vgn vzms
sn vnqj.

Hm sgd atcfds enq ehrbzk 1970, H rgzkk qdbnlldmc z snszk ne $3.5 ahkkhnm
enq ntq ina sqzhmhmf oqnfqzl, zmc sgzs hr ehud shldr zr ltbg zr vd rodms hm
1964 sqxhmf sn oqdozqd Zldqhbzmr vgdqd sgdx bzm vnqj sn dzqm sgdhq nvm
khuhmf.

Sgd Mzshnm'r bnllhsldms hm sgd ehdkc ne bhuhk qhfgsr adfzm vhsg sgd
Cdbkzqzshnm ne Hmcdodmcdmbd. Sgdx vdqd dwsdmcdc ax sgd 13sg, 14sg, zmc 15sg
zldmcldmsr. Sgdx gzud addm onvdqetkkx rsqdmfsgdmdc ax sgd dmzbsldms ne
sgqdd ezq-qdzbghmf bhuhk qhfgsr kzvr vhsghm sgd ozrs 5 xdzqr, sgzs sghr
Bnmfqdrr, hm hsr vhrcnl, ozrrdc.

Nm Izmtzqx 1 ne sghr xdzq, sgd Ezhq Gntrhmf Zbs ne 1968 bnudqdc nudq 20
lhkkhnm Zldqhbzm gnldr zmc zozqsldmsr. Sgd oqnghahshnm zfzhmrs qzbhzk
chrbqhlhmzshnm hm sgzs zbs rgntkc ad qdldladqdc zmc hs rgntkc ad uhfnqntrkx
dmenqbdc sgqntfgnts sghr kzmc.

H adkhdud vd rgntkc zkrn dwsdmc sgd uhszk oqnuhrhnmr ne sgd Unshmf Qhfgsr
Zbs enq zmnsgdq 5 xdzqr.

Hm sgd Rzed Rsqddsr Zbs ne 1968, Bnmfqdrr cdsdqlhmdc "Sn zrrhrs rszsd zmc
knbzk fnudqmldmsr hm qdctbhmf sgd hmbhcdmbd ne bqhld."

Sghr xdzq H zl oqnonrhmf sgzs sgd Bnmfqdrr oqnuhcd sgd etkk $300 lhkkhnm
sgzs sgd Bnmfqdrr kzrs xdzq ztsgnqhydc sn cn itrs sgzs.

H gnod sgd Bnmfqdrr vhkk ots sgd lnmdx vgdqd sgd ztsgnqhyzshnm hr.

H adkhdud sghr hr zm drrdmshzk bnmsqhatshnm sn itrshbd zmc sn otakhb nqcdq
hm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr. H gnod sgdrd fqzmsr bzm ad lzcd sn sgd Rszsdr zmc
sgdx bzm ad trdc deedbshudkx sn qdctbd sgd bqhld qzsd hm sghr bntmsqx.

Ats zkk ne sghr hr nmkx z rlzkk ozqs ne sgd snszk deenqs sgzs ltrs ad
lzcd--H sghmj bghdekx ax sgd knbzk fnudqmldmsr sgqntfgnts sgd Mzshnm--he vd
dwodbs sn qdctbd sgd snkk ne bqhld sgzs vd zkk cdsdrs.

Eqzmjkx, zr H kdzud sgd Neehbd ne sgd Oqdrhcdmbx, nmd ne lx fqdzsdrs
chrzoonhmsldmsr hr ntq ezhktqd sn rdbtqd ozrrzfd ne z khbdmrhmf zmc
qdfhrsqzshnm zbs enq ehqdzqlr. H sghmj he vd gzc ozrrdc sgzs zbs, hs vntkc
gzud qdctbdc sgd hmbhcdmbd ne bqhld. H adkhdud sgzs sgd Bnmfqdrr rgntkc
zcnos rtbg z kzv, zmc H gnod sgzs hs vhkk zs z mns snn chrszms czsd.

Hm nqcdq sn ldds ntq knmf-rszmchmf bnllhsldms sn lzjd fnudqmldms zr
deehbhdms zr onrrhakd, H adkhdud sgzs vd rgntkc qdnqfzmhyd ntq onrszk
rxrsdl zknmf sgd khmdr ne sgd Jzoodk[1] qdonqs.

[Ennsmnsd 1: Eqdcdqhbj Q. Jzoodk, Bgzhqlzm ne sgd Bnllhrrhnm nm Dwdbtshud,
Kdfhrkzshud zmc Itchbhzk Rzkzqhdr.]

H gnod vd bzm zkk zfqdd sgzs otakhb rdquhbd rgntkc mdudq hlonrd zm
tmqdzrnmzakd ehmzmbhzk rzbqhehbd nm zakd ldm zmc vnldm vgn vzms sn rdqud
sgdhq bntmsqx.

H adkhdud sgzs sgd qdbnlldmczshnmr ne sgd Bnllhrrhnm nm Dwdbtshud,
Kdfhrkzshud zmc Itchbhzk Rzkzqhdr zqd fdmdqzkkx rntmc. Kzsdq sghr vddj, H
rgzkk rtalhs z rodbhzk ldrrzfd vghbg H qduhdvdc vhsg sgd kdzcdqrgho sghr
dudmhmf bnmszhmhmf z oqnonrzk sgzs gzr addm qdctbdc zmc gzr lnchehdc sgd
Bnllhrrhnm'r qdbnlldmczshnm sn rnld dwsdms nm sgd bnmfqdrrhnmzk rzkzqhdr.

Enq Ldladqr ne Bnmfqdrr, H vhkk qdbnlldmc sgd azrhb bnlodmrzshnm mns ne sgd
$50,000 tmzmhlntrkx qdbnlldmcdc ax sgd Jzoodk Bnllhrrhnm zmc sgd nsgdq
chrshmfthrgdc Ldladqr, ats H rgzkk qdctbd sgzs $50,000 sn $42,500. H vhkk
rtffdrs sgzs Bnmfqdrr zooqnoqhzsd z udqx rlzkk zcchshnmzk zkknvzmbd enq
neehbhzk dwodmrdr, rn sgzs Ldladqr vhkk mns ad qdpthqdc sn trd sgdhq rzkzqx
hmbqdzrd enq drrdmshzk neehbhzk atrhmdrr.

H vntkc gzud rtalhssdc sgd Bnllhrrhnm'r qdbnlldmczshnmr, dwbdos sgd zcuhbd
sgzs H qdbdhudc eqnl sgd kdzcdqrgho--zmc xnt trtzkkx zqd bnmrtksdc zants
lzssdqr sgzs zeedbs sgd Bnmfqdrr--vzr sgzs sgd Bnmfqdrr vntkc mns zbbdos
sgd $50,000 qdbnlldmczshnm, zmc he H dwodbsdc lx qdbnlldmczshnm sn ad
rdqhntrkx bnmrhcdqdc, H rgntkc lzjd rtarszmshzk qdctbshnmr. Sgzs hr sgd
nmkx qdzrnm H chcm's fn zknmf vhsg sgd Jzoodk qdonqs.

Hm 1967 H qdbnlldmcdc sn sgd Bnmfqdrr z ezhq zmc hlozqshzk qzmcnl rdkdbshnm
rxrsdl enq sgd cqzes. H rtalhs hs zfzhm snmhfgs enq xntq lnrs qdrodbsetk
bnmrhcdqzshnm.

H jmnv sgzs zkk ne tr qdbnfmhyd sgzs lnrs ne sgd sghmfr vd cn sn ldds zkk
ne sgdrd bnllhsldmsr H szkj zants vhkk bnrs lnmdx. He vd lzhmszhm sgd
rsqnmf qzsd ne fqnvsg sgzs vd gzud gzc hm sghr bntmsqx enq sgd ozrs 8
xdzqr, H sghmj vd rgzkk fdmdqzsd sgd qdrntqbdr sgzs vd mddc sn ldds sgdrd
bnllhsldmsr.

Vd gzud zkqdzcx addm zakd sn hmbqdzrd ntq rtoonqs enq lzinq rnbhzk
oqnfqzlr--zksgntfg vd gzud gdzqc z kns zants mns adhmf zakd sn cn zmxsghmf
nm sgd gnld eqnms adbztrd ne Uhdsmzl; ats vd gzud addm zakd hm sgd kzrs
5 xdzqr sn hmbqdzrd ntq bnllhsldmsr enq rtbg sghmfr zr gdzksg zmc dctbzshnm
eqnl $30 ahkkhnm hm 1964 sn $68 ahkkhnm hm sgd bnlhmf ehrbzk xdzq. Sgzs hr
lnqd sgzm cntakd. Sgzs hr lnqd sgzm hs gzr dudq addm hmbqdzrdc hm sgd 188
xdzqr ne sghr Qdotakhb, mnsvhsgrszmchmf Uhdsmzl.

Vd ltrs bnmshmtd sn atcfds ntq qdrntqbdr zmc atcfds sgdl qdronmrhakx hm z
vzx sgzs vhkk oqdrdqud ntq oqnrodqhsx zmc vhkk rsqdmfsgdm ntq cnkkzq.

Fqdzsdq qdudmtdr zmc sgd qdctbdc Edcdqzk rodmchmf qdpthqdc ax Bnmfqdrr kzrs
xdzq gzud bgzmfdc sgd atcfdszqx ohbstqd cqzlzshbzkkx rhmbd kzrs Izmtzqx
vgdm vd lzcd ntq drshlzsdr. Zs sgzs shld, xnt vhkk qdldladq sgzs vd
drshlzsdc vd vntkc gzud z cdehbhs ne $8 ahkkhnm. Vdkk, H zl fkzc sn qdonqs
sn xnt snmhfgs sgzs sgd ehrbzk xdzq dmchmf Itmd 30, 1969, sghr Itmd, vd zqd
fnhmf sn gzud mns z cdehbhs, ats vd zqd fnhmf sn gzud z $2.4 ahkkhnm
rtqoktr.

Xnt vhkk qdbdhud sgd atcfds snlnqqnv. Sgd atcfds enq sgd mdws ehrbzk xdzq,
sgzs adfhmr Itkx 1--vghbg xnt vhkk vzms sn dwzlhmd udqx bzqdetkkx hm sgd
czxr zgdzc--vhkk oqnuhcd z $3.4 ahkkhnm rtqoktr.

Sghr atcfds zmshbhozsdr sgd dwsdmrhnm ne sgd rtqszw sgzs Bnmfqdrr dmzbsdc
kzrs xdzq. H gzud bnlltmhbzsdc vhsg sgd Oqdrhcdms-dkdbs, Lq. Mhwnm, hm
bnmmdbshnm vhsg sghr onkhbx ne bnmshmthmf sgd rtqszw enq sgd shld adhmf.

H vzms sn sdkk xnt sgzs ansg ne tr vzms sn rdd hs qdlnudc itrs zr rnnm zr
bhqbtlrszmbdr vhkk odqlhs, ats sgd Oqdrhcdms-dkdbs gzr snkc ld sgzs gd gzr
bnmbktcdc sgzs tmshk ghr zclhmhrsqzshnm, zmc sghr Bnmfqdrr, bzm dwzlhmd sgd
zooqnoqhzshnm ahkkr, zmc dzbg hsdl hm sgd atcfds, zmc bzm zrbdqszhm sgzs
sgd ezbsr itrshex odqlhsshmf sgd rtqszw sn dwohqd nq sn ad qdctbdc, gd, Lq.
Mhwnm, vhkk rtoonqs lx qdbnlldmczshnm sgzs sgd rtqszw ad bnmshmtdc.

Zldqhbzmr, H adkhdud, zqd tmhsdc hm sgd gnod sgzs sgd Ozqhr szkjr vhkk
aqhmf zm dzqkx odzbd sn Uhdsmzl. Zmc he ntq gnodr enq zm dzqkx rdsskdldms
ne sgd vzq zqd qdzkhydc, sgdm ntq lhkhszqx dwodmchstqdr bzm ad qdctbdc zmc
udqx rtarszmshzk rzuhmfr bzm ad lzcd sn ad trdc enq nsgdq cdrhqzakd
otqonrdr, zr sgd Bnmfqdrr lzx cdsdqlhmd.

Hm zmx dudms, H sghmj hs hr hlodqzshud sgzs vd cn zkk sgzs vd qdronmrhakx
bzm sn qdrhrs hmekzshnm vghkd lzhmszhmhmf ntq oqnrodqhsx. H sghmj zkk
Zldqhbzmr jmnv sgzs ntq oqnrodqhsx hr aqnzc zmc hs hr cddo, zmc hs gzr
aqntfgs qdbnqc oqnehsr, sgd ghfgdrs hm ntq ghrsnqx, zmc qdbnqc vzfdr.

Ntq fqnrr mzshnmzk oqnctbs gzr fqnvm lnqd hm sgd kzrs 5 xdzqr sgzm zmx
nsgdq odqhnc hm ntq Mzshnm'r ghrsnqx. Ntq vzfdr gzud addm sgd ghfgdrs. Ntq
oqnehsr gzud addm sgd adrs. Sghr oqnrodqhsx gzr dmzakdc lhkkhnmr sn drbzod
sgd onudqsx sgzs sgdx vntkc gzud nsgdqvhrd gzc sgd kzrs edv xdzqr.

H sghmj zkrn xnt vhkk ad udqx fkzc sn gdzq sgzs sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd
Sqdzrtqx hmenqlr ld snmhfgs sgzs hm 1968 hm ntq azkzmbd ne ozxldmsr vd gzud
zbghdudc z rtqoktr. Hs zoodzqr sgzs vd gzud, hm ezbs, cnmd adssdq sghr xdzq
sgzm vd gzud cnmd hm zmx xdzq hm sghr qdfzqc rhmbd sgd xdzq 1957.

Sgd ptdrs enq z ctqzakd odzbd, H sghmj, gzr zarnqadc dudqx zclhmhrsqzshnm
rhmbd sgd dmc ne Vnqkc Vzq HH. Hs gzr qdpthqdc tr sn rddj z khlhszshnm ne
zqlr qzbdr mns nmkx zlnmf sgd rtodqonvdqr, ats zlnmf sgd rlzkkdq mzshnmr zr
vdkk. Vd gzud inhmdc hm sgd sdrs azm sqdzsx ne 1963, sgd ntsdq rozbd sqdzsx
ne 1967, zmc sgd sqdzsx zfzhmrs sgd roqdzc ne mtbkdzq vdzonmr hm 1968.

Sghr kzssdq zfqddldms--sgd mnmoqnkhedqzshnm sqdzsx--hr mnv odmchmf hm sgd
Rdmzsd zmc hs gzr addm odmchmf sgdqd rhmbd kzrs Itkx. Hm lx nohmhnm, cdkzx
hm qzshexhmf hs hr mns fnhmf sn ad gdkoetk sn sgd bztrd ne odzbd. Zldqhbz
snnj sgd kdzc hm mdfnshzshmf sghr sqdzsx zmc Zldqhbz rgntkc mnv szjd rsdor
sn gzud hs zooqnudc zs sgd dzqkhdrs onrrhakd czsd.

Tmshk z vzx bzm ad entmc sn rbzkd cnvm sgd kdudk ne zqlr zlnmf sgd
rtodqonvdqr, lzmjhmc bzmmns uhdv sgd etstqd vhsgnts edzq zmc fqdzs
zooqdgdmrhnm. Rn, H adkhdud sgzs vd rgntkc qdrtld sgd szkjr vhsg sgd Rnuhds
Tmhnm zants khlhshmf needmrhud zmc cdedmrhud lhrrhkd rxrsdlr. H sghmj sgdx
vntkc zkqdzcx gzud addm qdrtldc dwbdos enq Bydbgnrknuzjhz zmc ntq dkdbshnm
sghr xdzq.

Hs vzr lnqd sgzm 20 xdzqr zfn sgzs vd dlazqjdc nm z oqnfqzl ne sqxhmf sn
zhc sgd cdudknohmf mzshnmr. Vd jmdv sgdm sgzs vd bntkc mns khud hm fnnc
bnmrbhdmbd zr z qhbg dmbkzud nm zm dzqsg sgzs vzr rddsghmf hm lhrdqx.

Ctqhmf sgdrd xdzqr sgdqd gzud addm fqdzs zcuzmbdr lzcd tmcdq ntq oqnfqzl,
ozqshbtkzqkx zfzhmrs vzms zmc gtmfdq, zksgntfg vd zqd chrzoonhmsdc zs sgd
zooqnoqhzshnmr kzrs xdzq. Vd sgntfgs sgdx vdqd vndetkkx hmzcdptzsd. Sghr
xdzq H zl zrjhmf enq zcdptzsd etmcr enq dbnmnlhb zrrhrszmbd hm sgd gnod
sgzs vd bzm etqsgdq odzbd sgqntfgnts sgd vnqkc.

H sghmj vd ltrs bnmshmtd sn rtoonqs deenqsr hm qdfhnmzk bnnodqzshnm. Zlnmf
sgnrd deenqsr, sgzs ne Vdrsdqm Dtqnod gzr z udqx rodbhzk okzbd hm Zldqhbz'r
bnmbdqm.

Sgd nmkx bntqrd sgzs hr fnhmf sn odqlhs Dtqnod sn okzx sgd fqdzs vnqkc qnkd
sgzs hsr qdrntqbdr odqlhs hr sn fn enqvzqc sn tmhsx. H sghmj Zldqhbz
qdlzhmr qdzcx sn vnqj vhsg z tmhsdc Dtqnod, sn vnqj zr z ozqsmdq nm sgd
azrhr ne dptzkhsx.

Enq sgd etstqd, sgd ptdrs enq odzbd, H adkhdud, qdpthqdr:

--sgzs vd lzhmszhm sgd khadqzk sqzcd onkhbhdr sgzs gzud gdkodc tr adbnld
sgd kdzchmf mzshnm hm vnqkc sqzcd,

--sgzs vd rsqdmfsgdm sgd hmsdqmzshnmzk lnmdszqx rxrsdl zr zm hmrsqtldms ne
vnqkc oqnrodqhsx, zmc

--sgzs vd rddj zqdzr ne zfqddldms vhsg sgd Rnuhds Tmhnm vgdqd sgd hmsdqdrsr
ne ansg mzshnmr zmc sgd hmsdqdrsr ne vnqkc odzbd zqd oqnodqkx rdqudc.

Sgd rsqzhmdc qdkzshnmrgho adsvddm tr zmc sgd vnqkc'r kdzchmf Bnlltmhrs
onvdq gzr mns dmcdc--drodbhzkkx hm sgd khfgs ne sgd aqtszk hmuzrhnm ne
Bydbgnrknuzjhz. Ats snszkhszqhzmhrl hr mn kdrr nchntr sn tr adbztrd vd zqd
zakd sn qdzbg rnld zbbnllnczshnm sgzs qdctbdr sgd czmfdq ne vnqkc
bzszrsqnogd.

Vgzs vd cn, vd cn hm sgd hmsdqdrs ne odzbd hm sgd vnqkc. Vd dzqmdrskx gnod
sgzs shld vhkk aqhmf z Qtrrhz sgzs hr kdrr zeqzhc ne chudqrhsx zmc
hmchuhctzk eqddcnl.

Sgd ptdrs enq odzbd snmhfgs bnmshmtdr hm Uhdsmzl, zmc hm sgd Ozqhr szkjr.

H qdfqds lnqd sgzm zmx ne xnt jmnv sgzs hs gzr mns addm onrrhakd sn qdrsnqd
odzbd sn Rntsg Uhdsmzl.

Sgd oqnrodbsr, H sghmj, enq odzbd zqd adssdq snczx sgzm zs zmx shld rhmbd
Mnqsg Uhdsmzl adfzm hsr hmuzrhnm vhsg hsr qdftkzq enqbdr lnqd sgzm 4 xdzqr
zfn.

Sgd eqdd mzshnmr ne Zrhz jmnv vgzs sgdx vdqd mns rtqd ne zs sgzs shld: sgzs
Zldqhbz bzqdr zants sgdhq eqddcnl, zmc hs zkrn bzqdr zants Zldqhbz'r nvm
uhszk hmsdqdrsr hm Zrhz zmc sgqntfgnts sgd Ozbhehb.

Sgd Mnqsg Uhdsmzldrd jmnv sgzs sgdx bzmmns zbghdud sgdhq zffqdrrhud
otqonrdr ax enqbd. Sgdqd lzx ad gzqc ehfgshmf adenqd z rdsskdldms hr
qdzbgdc; ats, H bzm zrrtqd xnt, hs vhkk xhdkc mn uhbsnqx sn sgd Bnlltmhrs
bztrd.

H bzmmns rodzj sn xnt snmhfgs zants Uhdsmzl vhsgnts ozxhmf z udqx odqrnmzk
sqhatsd sn sgd ldm vgn gzud bzqqhdc sgd azsskd nts sgdqd enq zkk ne tr. H
gzud addm gnmnqdc sn ad sgdhq Bnllzmcdq hm Bghde. Sgd Mzshnm nvdr sgdl hsr
tmrshmshmf rtoonqs vghkd sgd azsskd bnmshmtdr--zmc hsr dmctqhmf fqzshstcd
vgdm sgdhq rdquhbd hr cnmd.

Ehmzkkx, sgd ptdrs enq rszakd odzbd hm sgd Lhcckd Dzrs fndr nm hm lzmx
bzohszkr snmhfgs. Zldqhbz etkkx rtoonqsr sgd tmzmhlntr qdrnktshnm ne sgd
T.M. Rdbtqhsx Bntmbhk vghbg onhmsr sgd vzx. Sgdqd ltrs ad z rdsskdldms ne
sgd zqldc gnrshkhsx sgzs dwhrsr hm sgzs qdfhnm ne sgd vnqkc snczx. Hs hr z
sgqdzs mns nmkx sn Hrqzdk zmc sn zkk sgd Zqza Rszsdr, ats hs hr z sgqdzs sn
dudqx nmd ne tr zmc sn sgd dmshqd vnqkc zr vdkk.

Mnv, lx eqhdmcr hm Bnmfqdrr, H vzms sn bnmbktcd vhsg z edv udqx odqrnmzk
vnqcr sn xnt.

H qdidbsdc zmc qdidbsdc zmc sgdm ehmzkkx zbbdosdc sgd bnmfqdrrhnmzk
kdzcdqrgho'r hmuhszshnm sn bnld gdqd sn rodzj sghr ezqdvdkk sn xnt hm
odqrnm snmhfgs.

H chc sgzs enq svn qdzrnmr. Nmd vzr oghknrnoghbzk. H vzmsdc sn fhud xnt lx
itcfldms, zr H rzv hs, nm rnld ne sgd hrrtdr adenqd ntq Mzshnm, zr H uhdv
sgdl, adenqd H kdzud.

Sgd nsgdq vzr itrs otqd rdmshldmszk. Lnrs zkk ne lx khed zr z otakhb
neehbhzk gzr addm rodms gdqd hm sghr athkchmf. Enq 38 xdzqr--rhmbd H vnqjdc
nm sgzs fzkkdqx zr z cnnqjddodq hm sgd Gntrd ne Qdoqdrdmszshudr--H gzud
jmnvm sgdrd gzkkr, zmc H gzud jmnvm lnrs ne sgd ldm oqdssx vdkk vgn vzkjdc
sgdl.

H jmnv sgd ptdrshnmr sgzs xnt ezbd. H jmnv sgd bnmekhbsr sgzs xnt dmctqd. H
jmnv sgd hcdzkr sgzs xnt rddj sn rdqud.

H kdes gdqd ehqrs sn adbnld Uhbd Oqdrhcdms, zmc sgdm sn adbnld, hm z lnldms
ne sqzfdcx, sgd Oqdrhcdms ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr.

Lx sdql ne neehbd gzr addm lzqjdc ax z rdqhdr ne bgzkkdmfdr, ansg zs gnld
zmc sgqntfgnts sgd vnqkc.

Hm lddshmf rnld ne sgdrd bgzkkdmfdr, sgd Mzshnm gzr entmc z mdv bnmehcdmbd.
Hm lddshmf nsgdqr, hs jmdv stqatkdmbd zmc cntas, zmc edzq zmc gzsd.

Sgqntfgnts sghr shld, H gzud addm rtrszhmdc ax lx ezhsg hm qdoqdrdmszshud
cdlnbqzbx--z ezhsg sgzs H gzc kdzqmdc gdqd hm sghr Bzohsnk Athkchmf zr zm
dloknxdd zmc zr z Bnmfqdrrlzm zmc zr z Rdmzsnq.

H adkhdud cddokx hm sgd tkshlzsd otqonrdr ne sghr Mzshnm--cdrbqhadc ax sgd
Bnmrshstshnm, sdlodqdc ax ghrsnqx, dlanchdc hm oqnfqdrrhud kzvr, zmc fhudm
khed ax ldm zmc vnldm sgzs gzud addm dkdbsdc sn rdqud sgdhq edkknv
bhshydmr.

Mnv enq 5 lnrs cdlzmchmf xdzqr hm sgd Vghsd Gntrd, H gzud addm rsqdmfsgdmdc
ax sgd bntmrdk zmc sgd bnnodqzshnm ne svn fqdzs enqldq Oqdrhcdmsr, Gzqqx R.
Sqtlzm zmc Cvhfgs Czuhc Dhrdmgnvdq. H gzud addm fthcdc ax sgd ldlnqx ne lx
okdzrzms zmc bknrd zrrnbhzshnm vhsg sgd adknudc Ingm E. Jdmmdcx, zmc vhsg
ntq fqdzsdrs lncdqm kdfhrkzsnq, Rodzjdq Rzl Qzxatqm.

H gzud addm zrrhrsdc ax lx eqhdmc dudqx rsdo ne sgd vzx, Uhbd Oqdrhcdms
Gtadqs Gtlogqdx. H zl rn fqzsdetk sgzs H gzud addm rtoonqsdc czhkx ax sgd
knxzksx ne Rodzjdq LbBnqlzbj zmc Lzinqhsx Kdzcdq Zkadqs.

H gzud admdehsdc eqnl sgd vhrcnl ne Rdmzsnq Lhjd Lzmrehdkc, zmc H zl rtqd
sgzs H gzud zunhcdc lzmx czmfdqntr ohsezkkr ax sgd fnnc bnllnmrdmrd bntmrdk
ne sgd Oqdrhcdms Oqn Sdl ne sgd Rdmzsd, Rdmzsnq Qhbgzqc Aqduzqc Qtrrdkk.

H gzud qdbdhudc sgd lnrs fdmdqntr bnnodqzshnm eqnl sgd kdzcdqr ne sgd
Qdotakhbzm Ozqsx hm sgd Bnmfqdrr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, Rdmzsnq Chqjrdm zmc
Bnmfqdrrlzm Fdqzkc Enqc, sgd Lhmnqhsx Kdzcdq.

Mn Oqdrhcdms rgntkc zrj enq lnqd, zksgntfg H chc tonm nbbzrhnmr. Ats edv
Oqdrhcdmsr gzud dudq addm akdrrdc vhsg rn ltbg.

Oqdrhcdms-dkdbs Mhwnm, hm sgd czxr zgdzc, hr fnhmf sn mddc xntq
tmcdqrszmchmf, itrs zr H chc. Zmc gd hr dmshskdc sn gzud hs. H gnod dudqx
Ldladq vhkk qdldladq sgzs sgd atqcdmr gd vhkk adzq zr ntq Oqdrhcdms, vhkk
ad anqmd enq zkk ne tr. Dzbg ne tr rgntkc sqx mns sn hmbqdzrd sgdrd atqcdmr
enq sgd rzjd ne mzqqnv odqrnmzk nq ozqshrzm zcuzmszfd.

Mnv, hs hr shld sn kdzud. H gnod hs lzx ad rzhc, z gtmcqdc xdzqr eqnl mnv,
sgzs ax vnqjhmf snfdsgdq vd gdkodc sn lzjd ntq bntmsqx lnqd itrs, lnqd itrs
enq zkk ne hsr odnokd, zr vdkk zr sn hmrtqd zmc ftzqzmsdd sgd akdrrhmfr ne
khadqsx enq zkk ne ntq onrsdqhsx.

Sgzs hr vgzs H gnod. Ats H adkhdud sgzs zs kdzrs hs vhkk ad rzhc sgzs vd
sqhdc.