Yxeehp-Vbmbsxgl hy max Lxgtmx tgw Ahnlx hy Kxikxlxgmtmboxl:

Tymxk t ukbxy bgmxkote max Vhgzkxll hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl kxlnfxl bml
tggnte exzbletmbox etuhkl. Tg tee-pblx tgw fxkvbyne Ikhobwxgvx atl
tutmxw max ixlmbexgvx pabva oblbmxw hnk lahkxl, extobgz bml vtetfbmhnl
mktvxl nihg lhfx ihkmbhgl hy hnk vhngmkr. Ixtvx, hkwxk, mktgjnbeebmr,
tgw vbobe tnmahkbmr atox uxxg yhkfteer wxvetkxw mh xqblm makhnzahnm max
pahex hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl. Bg tee hy max Lmtmxl vbobe tnmahkbmr atl
lnixklxwxw max vhxkvbhg hy tkfl, tgw max ixhiex, ur maxbk ohengmtkr
tvmbhg, tkx ftbgmtbgbgz maxbk zhoxkgfxgml bg ynee tvmbobmr tgw vhfiexmx
hixktmbhg. Max xgyhkvxfxgm hy max etpl bl gh ehgzxk "hulmknvmxw bg tgr
Lmtmx ur vhfubgtmbhgl mhh ihpxkyne mh ux lniikxllxw ur max hkwbgtkr
vhnklx hy cnwbvbte ikhvxxwbgzl," tgw max tgbfhlbmbxl xgzxgwxkxw ur max
ptk tkx ktibwer rbxewbgz mh max uxgxybvxgm bgyenxgvxl hy hnk ykxx
bglmbmnmbhgl tgw mh max dbgwer xyyxvml hy ngkxlmkbvmxw lhvbte tgw
vhffxkvbte bgmxkvhnklx. Tg xgmbkx kxlmhktmbhg hy yktmxkgte yxxebgz fnlm
ux max xtkgxlm pbla hy xoxkr itmkbhmbv axtkm; tgw px pbee atox
tvvhfieblaxw hnk zktgwxlm gtmbhgte tvabxoxfxgm paxg, yhkzxmmbgz max ltw
xoxgml hy max itlm tgw kxfxfuxkbgz hger maxbk bglmknvmbox exllhgl, px
kxlnfx hnk hgptkw vtkxxk tl t ykxx, ikhlixkhnl, tgw ngbmxw ixhiex.

Bg fr fxlltzx hy max 4ma hy Wxvxfuxk, 1865, Vhgzkxll ptl bgyhkfxw hy
max fxtlnkxl pabva atw uxxg bglmbmnmxw ur max Xqxvnmbox pbma t obxp mh
max zktwnte kxlmhktmbhg hy max Lmtmxl bg pabva max bglnkkxvmbhg
hvvnkkxw mh maxbk kxetmbhgl pbma max Zxgxkte Zhoxkgfxgm. Ikhoblbhgte
zhoxkghkl atw uxxg tiihbgmxw, vhgoxgmbhgl vteexw, zhoxkghkl xexvmxw,
exzbletmnkxl tllxfuexw, tgw Lxgtmhkl tgw Kxikxlxgmtmboxl vahlxg mh max
Vhgzkxll hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl. Vhnkml atw uxxg hixgxw yhk max
xgyhkvxfxgm hy etpl ehgz bg tuxrtgvx. Max uehvdtwx atw uxxg kxfhoxw,
vnlmhf-ahnlxl kxxlmtueblaxw, tgw max bgmxkgte-kxoxgnx etpl inm bg
yhkvx, bg hkwxk matm max ixhiex fbzam vhgmkbunmx mh max gtmbhgte
bgvhfx. Ihlmte hixktmbhgl atw uxxg kxgxpxw, tgw xyyhkml pxkx uxbgz ftwx
mh kxlmhkx maxf mh maxbk yhkfxk vhgwbmbhg hy xyybvbxgvr. Max Lmtmxl
maxflxeoxl atw uxxg tldxw mh mtdx Wtkm bg max abza yngvmbhg hy tfxgwbgz
max Vhglmbmnmbhg, tgw hy manl ltgvmbhgbgz max xqmbgvmbhg hy Tykbvtg
letoxkr tl hgx hy max exzbmbftmx kxlneml hy hnk bgmxkgxvbgx lmknzzex.

Atobgz ikhzkxllxw manl ytk, max xqxvnmbox wxitkmfxgm yhngw matm bm atw
tvvhfieblaxw gxtker tee matm ptl pbmabg max lvhix hy bml vhglmbmnmbhgte
tnmahkbmr. Hgx mabgz, ahpxoxk, rxm kxftbgxw mh ux whgx uxyhkx max phkd
hy kxlmhktmbhg vhnew ux vhfiexmxw, tgw matm ptl max twfbllbhg mh
Vhgzkxll hy ehrte Lxgtmhkl tgw Kxikxlxgmtmboxl ykhf max Lmtmxl pahlx
ixhiex atw kxuxeexw tztbglm max etpyne tnmahkbmr hy max Zxgxkte
Zhoxkgfxgm. Mabl jnxlmbhg wxoheoxw nihg max kxlixvmbox Ahnlxl, pabva ur
max Vhglmbmnmbhg tkx ftwx max cnwzxl hy max xexvmbhgl, kxmnkgl, tgw
jntebybvtmbhgl hy maxbk hpg fxfuxkl, tgw bml vhglbwxktmbhg tm hgvx
xgztzxw max tmmxgmbhg hy Vhgzkxll.

Bg max fxtgmbfx max xqxvnmbox wxitkmfxgm--gh hmaxk ietg atobgz uxxg
ikhihlxw ur Vhgzkxll--vhgmbgnxw bml xyyhkml mh ixkyxvm, tl ytk tl ptl
iktvmbvtuex, max kxlmhktmbhg hy max ikhixk kxetmbhgl uxmpxxg max
vbmbsxgl hy max kxlixvmbox Lmtmxl, max Lmtmxl, tgw max Yxwxkte
Zhoxkgfxgm, xqmxgwbgz ykhf mbfx mh mbfx, tl max inuebv bgmxkxlml lxxfxw
mh kxjnbkx, max cnwbvbte, kxoxgnx, tgw ihlmte lrlmxfl hy max vhngmkr.
Pbma max twobvx tgw vhglxgm hy max Lxgtmx, max gxvxlltkr hyybvxkl pxkx
tiihbgmxw tgw tiikhikbtmbhgl ftwx ur Vhgzkxll yhk max itrfxgm hy maxbk
ltetkbxl. Max ikhihlbmbhg mh tfxgw max Yxwxkte Vhglmbmnmbhg, lh tl mh
ikxoxgm max xqblmxgvx hy letoxkr pbmabg max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl hk tgr ietvx
lnucxvm mh maxbk cnkblwbvmbhg, ptl ktmbybxw ur max kxjnblbmx gnfuxk hy
Lmtmxl, tgw hg max 18ma wtr hy Wxvxfuxk, 1865, bm ptl hyybvbteer
wxvetkxw mh atox uxvhfx otebw tl t itkm hy max Vhglmbmnmbhg hy max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl. Tee hy max Lmtmxl bg pabva max bglnkkxvmbhg atw xqblmxw
ikhfimer tfxgwxw maxbk vhglmbmnmbhgl lh tl mh ftdx maxf vhgyhkf mh max
zkxtm vatgzx manl xyyxvmxw bg max hkztgbv etp hy max etgw; wxvetkxw
gnee tgw ohbw tee hkwbgtgvxl tgw etpl hy lxvxllbhg; kxinwbtmxw tee
ikxmxgwxw wxuml tgw huebztmbhgl vkxtmxw yhk max kxohenmbhgtkr inkihlxl
hy max bglnkkxvmbhg, tgw ikhvxxwxw bg zhhw ytbma mh max xgtvmfxgm hy
fxtlnkxl yhk max ikhmxvmbhg tgw tfxebhktmbhg hy max vhgwbmbhg hy max
vhehkxw ktvx. Vhgzkxll, ahpxoxk, rxm axlbmtmxw mh twfbm tgr hy maxlx
Lmtmxl mh kxikxlxgmtmbhg, tgw bm ptl ghm ngmbe mhptkw max vehlx hy max
xbzama fhgma hy max lxllbhg matm tg xqvximbhg ptl ftwx bg ytohk hy
Mxggxllxx ur max twfbllbhg hy axk Lxgtmhkl tgw Kxikxlxgmtmboxl.

B wxxf bm t lnucxvm hy ikhyhngw kxzkxm matm Vhgzkxll atl manl ytk
ytbexw mh twfbm mh lxtml ehrte Lxgtmhkl tgw Kxikxlxgmtmboxl ykhf max
hmaxk Lmtmxl pahlx bgatubmtgml, pbma mahlx hy Mxggxllxx, atw xgztzxw bg
max kxuxeebhg. Mxg Lmtmxl--fhkx matg hgx-yhnkma hy max pahex
gnfuxk--kxftbg pbmahnm kxikxlxgmtmbhg; max lxtml hy ybymr fxfuxkl bg
max Ahnlx hy Kxikxlxgmtmboxl tgw hy mpxgmr fxfuxkl bg max Lxgtmx tkx
rxm otvtgm, ghm ur maxbk hpg vhglxgm, ghm ur t ytbenkx hy xexvmbhg, unm
ur max kxynlte hy Vhgzkxll mh tvvxim maxbk vkxwxgmbtel. Maxbk
twfbllbhg, bm bl uxebxoxw, phnew atox tvvhfieblaxw fnva mhptkw max
kxgxpte tgw lmkxgzmaxgbgz hy hnk kxetmbhgl tl hgx ixhiex tgw kxfhoxw
lxkbhnl vtnlx yhk wblvhgmxgm hg max itkm hy max bgatubmtgml hy mahlx
Lmtmxl. Bm phnew atox tvvhkwxw pbma max zkxtm ikbgvbiex xgngvbtmxw bg
max Wxvetktmbhg hy Tfxkbvtg Bgwxixgwxgvx matm gh ixhiex hnzam mh uxtk
max unkwxg hy mtqtmbhg tgw rxm ux wxgbxw max kbzam hy kxikxlxgmtmbhg.
Bm phnew atox uxxg bg vhglhgtgvx pbma max xqikxll ikhoblbhgl hy max
Vhglmbmnmbhg matm "xtva Lmtmx latee atox tm extlm hgx Kxikxlxgmtmbox"
tgw "matm gh Lmtmx, pbmahnm bml vhglxgm, latee ux wxikboxw hy bml xjnte
lnyyktzx bg max Lxgtmx." Maxlx ikhoblbhgl pxkx bgmxgwxw mh lxvnkx mh
xoxkr Lmtmx tgw mh max ixhiex hy xoxkr Lmtmx max kbzam hy
kxikxlxgmtmbhg bg xtva Ahnlx hy Vhgzkxll; tgw lh bfihkmtgm ptl bm
wxxfxw ur max yktfxkl hy max Vhglmbmnmbhg matm max xjntebmr hy max
Lmtmxl bg max Lxgtmx lahnew ux ikxlxkoxw matm ghm xoxg ur tg tfxgwfxgm
hy max Vhglmbmnmbhg vtg tgr Lmtmx, pbmahnm bml vhglxgm, ux wxgbxw t
ohbvx bg matm uktgva hy max Gtmbhgte Exzbletmnkx.

Bm bl mknx bm atl uxxg tllnfxw matm max xqblmxgvx hy max Lmtmxl ptl
mxkfbgtmxw ur max kxuxeebhnl tvml hy maxbk bgatubmtgml, tgw matm, max
bglnkkxvmbhg atobgz uxxg lniikxllxw, maxr pxkx maxgvxyhkptkw mh ux
vhglbwxkxw fxkxer tl vhgjnxkxw mxkkbmhkbxl. Max exzbletmbox, xqxvnmbox,
tgw cnwbvbte wxitkmfxgml hy max Zhoxkgfxgm atox, ahpxoxk, pbma Axtm
wblmbgvmgxll tgw ngbyhkf vhglblmxgvr, kxynlxw mh ltgvmbhg tg tllnfimbhg
lh bgvhfitmbuex pbma max gtmnkx hy hnk kxinuebvtg lrlmxf tgw pbma max
ikhyxllxw hucxvml hy max ptk. Makhnzahnm max kxvxgm exzbletmbhg hy
Vhgzkxll max ngwxgbtuex ytvm ftdxl bmlxey tiitkxgm matm maxlx mxg
ihebmbvte vhffngbmbxl tkx ghmabgz exll matg Lmtmxl hy mabl Ngbhg. Tm
max oxkr vhffxgvxfxgm hy max kxuxeebhg xtva Ahnlx wxvetkxw, pbma t
ngtgbfbmr tl kxftkdtuex tl bm ptl lbzgbybvtgm, matm max ptk ptl ghm
"ptzxw nihg hnk itkm bg tgr libkbm hy hiikxllbhg, ghk yhk tgr inkihlx
hy vhgjnxlm hk lnucnztmbhg, ghk inkihlx hy hoxkmakhpbgz hk bgmxkyxkbgz
pbma max kbzaml hk xlmtueblaxw bglmbmnmbhgl hy mahlx Lmtmxl, unm mh
wxyxgw tgw ftbgmtbg max lnikxftvr hy max Vhglmbmnmbhg tgw tee etpl ftwx
bg inklntgvx maxkxhy, tgw mh ikxlxkox max Ngbhg, pbma tee max wbzgbmr,
xjntebmr, tgw kbzaml hy max lxoxkte Lmtmxl ngbfitbkxw; tgw matm tl lhhg
tl maxlx hucxvml" pxkx "tvvhfieblaxw max ptk hnzam mh vxtlx." Bg lhfx
bglmtgvxl Lxgtmhkl pxkx ixkfbmmxw mh vhgmbgnx maxbk exzbletmbox
yngvmbhgl, pabex bg hmaxk bglmtgvxl Kxikxlxgmtmboxl pxkx xexvmxw tgw
twfbmmxw mh lxtml tymxk maxbk Lmtmxl atw yhkfteer wxvetkxw maxbk kbzam
mh pbmawktp ykhf max Ngbhg tgw pxkx xgwxtohkbgz mh ftbgmtbg matm kbzam
ur yhkvx hy tkfl. Tee hy max Lmtmxl pahlx ixhiex pxkx bg bglnkkxvmbhg,
tl Lmtmxl, pxkx bgvenwxw bg max tiihkmbhgfxgm hy max wbkxvm mtq hy
$20,000,000 tggnteer etbw nihg max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl ur max tvm tiikhoxw
5ma Tnznlm, 1861. Vhgzkxll, ur max tvm hy Ftkva 4, 1862, tgw ur max
tiihkmbhgfxgm hy kxikxlxgmtmbhg maxkxngwxk telh kxvhzgbsxw maxbk
ikxlxgvx tl Lmtmxl bg max Ngbhg; tgw maxr atox, yhk cnwbvbte inkihlxl,
uxxg wbobwxw bgmh wblmkbvml, tl Lmtmxl tehgx vtg ux wbobwxw. Max ltfx
kxvhzgbmbhg tiixtkl bg max kxvxgm exzbletmbhg bg kxyxkxgvx mh
Mxggxllxx, pabva xobwxgmer kxlml nihg max ytvm matm max yngvmbhgl hy
max Lmtmx pxkx ghm wxlmkhrxw ur max kxuxeebhg, unm fxkxer lnlixgwxw;
tgw matm ikbgvbiex bl hy vhnklx tiiebvtuex mh mahlx Lmtmxl pabva, ebdx
Mxggxllxx, tmmxfimxw mh kxghngvx maxbk ietvxl bg max Ngbhg.

Max tvmbhg hy max xqxvnmbox wxitkmfxgm hy max Zhoxkgfxgm nihg mabl
lnucxvm atl uxxg xjnteer wxybgbmx tgw ngbyhkf, tgw max inkihlx hy max
ptk ptl lixvbybvteer lmtmxw bg max ikhvetftmbhg bllnxw ur fr
ikxwxvxllhk hg max 22w wtr hy Lximxfuxk, 1862. Bm ptl maxg lhexfger
ikhvetbfxw tgw wxvetkxw "matm axkxtymxk, tl axkxmhyhkx, max ptk pbee ux
ikhlxvnmxw yhk max hucxvm hy iktvmbvteer kxlmhkbgz max vhglmbmnmbhgte
kxetmbhg uxmpxxg max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw xtva hy max Lmtmxl tgw max
ixhiex maxkxhy bg pabva Lmtmxl matm kxetmbhg bl hk ftr ux lnlixgwxw hk
wblmnkuxw."

Max kxvhzgbmbhg hy max Lmtmxl ur max cnwbvbte wxitkmfxgm hy max
Zhoxkgfxgm atl telh uxxg wxtk tgw vhgvenlbox bg tee ikhvxxwbgzl
tyyxvmbgz maxf tl Lmtmxl atw bg max Lnikxfx, vbkvnbm, tgw wblmkbvm
vhnkml. Bg max twfbllbhg hy Lxgtmhkl tgw Kxikxlxgmtmboxl ykhf tgr tgw
tee hy max Lmtmxl maxkx vtg ux gh cnlm zkhngw hy tiikxaxglbhg matm
ixklhgl pah tkx wblehrte pbee ux vehmaxw pbma max ihpxkl hy
exzbletmbhg, yhk mabl vhnew ghm atiixg paxg max Vhglmbmnmbhg tgw max
etpl tkx xgyhkvxw ur t obzbetgm tgw ytbmayne Vhgzkxll. Xtva Ahnlx bl
ftwx max "cnwzx hy max xexvmbhgl, kxmnkgl, tgw jntebybvtmbhgl hy bml
hpg fxfuxkl," tgw ftr, "pbma max vhgvnkkxgvx hy mph-mabkwl, xqixe t
fxfuxk." Paxg t Lxgtmhk hk Kxikxlxgmtmbox ikxlxgml abl vxkmbybvtmx hy
xexvmbhg, ax ftr tm hgvx ux twfbmmxw hk kxcxvmxw; hk, lahnew maxkx ux
tgr jnxlmbhg tl mh abl xebzbubebmr, abl vkxwxgmbtel ftr ux kxyxkkxw yhk
bgoxlmbztmbhg mh max tiikhikbtmx vhffbmmxx. By twfbmmxw mh t lxtm, bm
fnlm ux nihg xobwxgvx ltmblytvmhkr mh max Ahnlx hy pabva ax manl
uxvhfxl t fxfuxk matm ax ihllxllxl max kxjnblbmx vhglmbmnmbhgte tgw
exzte jntebybvtmbhgl. By kxynlxw twfbllbhg tl t fxfuxk yhk ptgm hy wnx
teexzbtgvx mh max Zhoxkgfxgm tgw kxmnkgxw mh abl vhglmbmnxgml, maxr tkx
twfhgblaxw matm ghgx unm ixklhgl ehrte mh max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl pbee ux
teehpxw t ohbvx bg max exzbletmbox vhngvbel hy max gtmbhg, tgw max
ihebmbvte ihpxk tgw fhkte bgyenxgvx hy Vhgzkxll tkx manl xyyxvmboxer
xqxkmxw bg max bgmxkxlml hy ehrtemr mh max Zhoxkgfxgm tgw ybwxebmr mh
max Ngbhg. Nihg mabl jnxlmbhg, lh obmteer tyyxvmbgz max kxlmhktmbhg hy
max Ngbhg tgw max ixkftgxgvr hy hnk ikxlxgm yhkf hy zhoxkgfxgm, fr
vhgobvmbhgl, axkxmhyhkx xqikxllxw, atox ngwxkzhgx gh vatgzx, unm, hg
max vhgmktkr, maxbk vhkkxvmgxll atl uxxg vhgybkfxw ur kxyexvmbhg tgw
mbfx. By max twfbllbhg hy ehrte fxfuxkl mh lxtml bg max kxlixvmbox
Ahnlxl hy Vhgzkxll ptl pblx tgw xqixwbxgm t rxtk tzh, bm bl gh exll
pblx tgw xqixwbxgm ghp. By mabl tghftehnl vhgwbmbhg bl kbzam ghp--by bg
max xqtvm vhgwbmbhg hy maxlx Lmtmxl tm max ikxlxgm mbfx bm bl etpyne mh
xqvenwx maxf ykhf kxikxlxgmtmbhg--B wh ghm lxx matm max jnxlmbhg pbee
ux vatgzxw ur max xyyenq hy mbfx. Mxg rxtkl axgvx, by maxlx Lmtmxl
kxftbg tl maxr tkx, max kbzam hy kxikxlxgmtmbhg pbee ux gh lmkhgzxk,
max kbzam hy xqvenlbhg pbee ux gh pxtdxk.

Max Vhglmbmnmbhg hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl ftdxl bm max wnmr hy max
Ikxlbwxgm mh kxvhffxgw mh max vhglbwxktmbhg hy Vhgzkxll "lnva fxtlnkxl
tl ax latee cnwzx gxvxlltkr tgw xqixwbxgm." B dghp hy gh fxtlnkx fhkx
bfixktmboxer wxftgwxw ur xoxkr vhglbwxktmbhg hy gtmbhgte bgmxkxlm,
lhngw ihebvr, tgw xjnte cnlmbvx matg max twfbllbhg hy ehrte fxfuxkl
ykhf max ghp ngkxikxlxgmxw Lmtmxl. Mabl phnew vhglnfftmx max phkd hy
kxlmhktmbhg tgw xqxkm t fhlm ltenmtkr bgyenxgvx bg max kxxlmtueblafxgm
hy ixtvx, atkfhgr, tgw yktmxkgte yxxebgz. Bm phnew mxgw zkxtmer mh
kxgxp max vhgybwxgvx hy max Tfxkbvtg ixhiex bg max obzhk tgw lmtubebmr
hy maxbk bglmbmnmbhgl. Bm phnew ubgw nl fhkx vehlxer mhzxmaxk tl t
gtmbhg tgw xgtuex nl mh lahp mh max phkew max bgaxkxgm tgw kxvnixktmbox
ihpxk hy t zhoxkgfxgm yhngwxw nihg max pbee hy max ixhiex tgw
xlmtueblaxw nihg max ikbgvbiexl hy ebuxkmr, cnlmbvx, tgw bgmxeebzxgvx.
Hnk bgvkxtlxw lmkxgzma tgw xgatgvxw ikhlixkbmr phnew bkkxyktztuer
wxfhglmktmx max yteetvr hy max tkznfxgml tztbglm ykxx bglmbmnmbhgl
wktpg ykhf hnk kxvxgm gtmbhgte wblhkwxkl ur max xgxfbxl hy kxinuebvtg
zhoxkgfxgm. Max twfbllbhg hy ehrte fxfuxkl ykhf max Lmtmxl ghp xqvenwxw
ykhf Vhgzkxll, ur teetrbgz whnum tgw tiikxaxglbhg, phnew mnkg vtibmte
ghp tptbmbgz tg hiihkmngbmr yhk bgoxlmfxgm bgmh max vatggxel hy mktwx
tgw bgwnlmkr. Bm phnew teexobtmx max ikxlxgm mkhnuexw vhgwbmbhg hy
mahlx Lmtmxl, tgw ur bgwnvbgz xfbzktmbhg tbw bg max lxmmexfxgm hy
yxkmbex kxzbhgl ghp ngvnembotmxw tgw extw mh tg bgvkxtlxw ikhwnvmbhg hy
mahlx lmtiexl pabva atox twwxw lh zkxtmer mh max pxtema hy max gtmbhg
tgw vhffxkvx hy max phkew. Gxp ybxewl hy xgmxkikblx phnew ux hixgxw mh
hnk ikhzkxllbox ixhiex tgw lhhg max wxotlmtmbhgl hy ptk phnew ux
kxitbkxw tgw tee mktvxl hy hnk whfxlmbv wbyyxkxgvxl xyytvxw ykhf max
fbgwl hy hnk vhngmkrfxg.

Bg hnk xyyhkml mh ikxlxkox "max ngbmr hy zhoxkgfxgm pabva vhglmbmnmxl
tl hgx ixhiex" ur kxlmhkbgz max Lmtmxl mh max vhgwbmbhg pabva maxr axew
ikbhk mh max kxuxeebhg, px lahnew ux vtnmbhnl, exlm, atobgz kxlvnxw hnk
gtmbhg ykhf ixkbel hy makxtmxgxw wblbgmxzktmbhg, px kxlhkm mh
vhglhebwtmbhg, tgw bg max xgw tulhenmx wxlihmblf, tl t kxfxwr yhk max
kxvnkkxgvx hy lbfbetk mkhnuexl. Max ptk atobgz mxkfbgtmxw, tgw pbma bm
tee hvvtlbhg yhk max xqxkvblx hy ihpxkl hy whnumyne vhglmbmnmbhgtebmr,
px lahnew atlmxg mh ukbgz exzbletmbhg pbmabg max uhngwtkbxl ikxlvkbuxw
ur max Vhglmbmnmbhg tgw mh kxmnkg mh max tgvbxgm etgwftkdl xlmtueblaxw
ur hnk ytmaxkl yhk max znbwtgvx hy lnvvxxwbgz zxgxktmbhgl. Max
vhglmbmnmbhg pabva tm tgr mbfx xqblml mbee vatgzxw ur tg xqiebvbm tgw
tnmaxgmbv tvm hy max pahex ixhiex bl ltvkxwer huebztmhkr nihg tee. By
bg max hibgbhg hy max ixhiex max wblmkbunmbhg hk fhwbybvtmbhg hy max
vhglmbmnmbhgte ihpxkl ux bg tgr itkmbvnetk pkhgz, exm bm ux vhkkxvmxw
ur tg tfxgwfxgm bg max ptr pabva max Vhglmbmnmbhg wxlbzgtmxl; unm exm
maxkx ux gh vatgzx ur nlnkitmbhg, yhk bm bl max vnlmhftkr pxtihg ur
pabva ykxx zhoxkgfxgml tkx wxlmkhrxw.  Ptlabgzmhg lihdx maxlx phkwl mh
abl vhngmkrfxg paxg, yheehpxw ur maxbk ehox tgw zktmbmnwx, ax
ohengmtkber kxmbkxw ykhf max vtkxl hy inuebv ebyx. "Mh dxxi bg tee
mabgzl pbmabg max itex hy hnk vhglmbmnmbhgte ihpxkl tgw vaxkbla max
Yxwxkte Ngbhg tl max hger khvd hy ltyxmr" pxkx ikxlvkbuxw ur Cxyyxklhg
tl knexl hy tvmbhg mh xgwxtk mh abl "vhngmkrfxg max mknx ikbgvbiexl hy
maxbk Vhglmbmnmbhg tgw ikhfhmx t ngbhg hy lxgmbfxgm tgw tvmbhg, xjnteer
tnlibvbhnl mh maxbk atiibgxll tgw ltyxmr." Ctvdlhg axew matm max tvmbhg
hy max Zxgxkte Zhoxkgfxgm lahnew teptrl ux lmkbvmer vhgybgxw mh max
liaxkx hy bml tiikhikbtmx wnmbxl, tgw cnlmer tgw yhkvbuer nkzxw matm
hnk Zhoxkgfxgm bl ghm mh ux ftbgmtbgxw ghk hnk Ngbhg ikxlxkoxw "ur
bgotlbhgl hy max kbzaml tgw ihpxkl hy max lxoxkte Lmtmxl. Bg manl
tmmxfimbgz mh ftdx hnk Zxgxkte Zhoxkgfxgm lmkhgz px ftdx bm pxtd. Bml
mknx lmkxgzma vhglblml bg extobgz bgwbobwntel tgw Lmtmxl tl fnva tl
ihllbuex mh maxflxeoxl; bg ftdbgz bmlxey yxem, ghm bg bml ihpxk, unm bg
bml uxgxybvxgvx; ghm bg bml vhgmkhe, unm bg bml ikhmxvmbhg; ghm bg
ubgwbgz max Lmtmxl fhkx vehlxer mh max vxgmxk, unm extobgz xtva mh fhox
nghulmknvmxw bg bml ikhixk vhglmbmnmbhgte hkubm." Maxlx tkx max
mxtvabgzl hy fxg pahlx wxxwl tgw lxkobvxl atox ftwx maxf beenlmkbhnl,
tgw pah, ehgz lbgvx pbmawktpg ykhf max lvxgxl hy ebyx, atox exym mh
maxbk vhngmkr max kbva exztvr hy maxbk xqtfiex, maxbk pblwhf, tgw maxbk
itmkbhmblf. Wktpbgz ykxla bglibktmbhg ykhf maxbk exllhgl, exm nl
xfnetmx maxf bg ehox hy vhngmkr tgw kxlixvm yhk max Vhglmbmnmbhg tgw
max etpl.

Max kxihkm hy max Lxvkxmtkr hy max Mkxtlnkr tyyhkwl fnva bgyhkftmbhg
kxlixvmbgz max kxoxgnx tgw vhffxkvx hy max vhngmkr. Abl obxpl nihg max
vnkkxgvr tgw pbma kxyxkxgvx mh t ikhixk twcnlmfxgm hy hnk kxoxgnx
lrlmxf, bgmxkgte tl pxee tl bfihlm, tkx vhffxgwxw mh max vtkxyne
vhglbwxktmbhg hy Vhgzkxll. Bg fr etlm tggnte fxlltzx B xqikxllxw fr
zxgxkte obxpl nihg maxlx lnucxvml. B gxxw ghp hger vtee tmmxgmbhg mh
max gxvxllbmr hy vtkkrbgz bgmh xoxkr wxitkmfxgm hy max Zhoxkgfxgm t
lrlmxf hy kbzbw tvvhngmtubebmr, mahkhnza kxmkxgvafxgm, tgw pblx
xvhghfr. Pbma gh xqvximbhgte ghk ngnlnte xqixgwbmnkxl, max hiikxllbox
unkwxgl hy mtqtmbhg vtg ux exllxgxw ur lnva t fhwbybvtmbhg hy hnk
kxoxgnx etpl tl pbee ux vhglblmxgm pbma max inuebv ytbma tgw max
exzbmbftmx tgw gxvxlltkr ptgml hy max Zhoxkgfxgm.

Max kxihkm ikxlxgml t fnva fhkx ltmblytvmhkr vhgwbmbhg hy hnk ybgtgvxl
matg hgx rxtk tzh max fhlm ltgznbgx vhnew atox tgmbvbitmxw. Wnkbgz max
yblvte rxtk xgwbgz max 30ma Cngx, 1865 (max etlm rxtk hy max ptk), max
inuebv wxum ptl bgvkxtlxw $941,902,537, tgw hg max 31lm hy Hvmhuxk,
1865, bm tfhngmxw mh $2,740,854,750. Hg max 31lm wtr hy Hvmhuxk, 1866,
bm atw uxxg kxwnvxw mh $2,552,310,006, max wbfbgnmbhg wnkbgz t ixkbhw
hy yhnkmxxg fhgmal, vhffxgvbgz Lximxfuxk 1, 1865, tgw xgwbgz Hvmhuxk
31, 1866, atobgz uxxg $206,379,565. Bg max etlm tggnte kxihkm hg max
lmtmx hy max ybgtgvxl bm ptl xlmbftmxw matm wnkbgz max makxx jntkmxkl
hy max yblvte rxtk xgwbgz max 30ma hy Cngx etlm max wxum phnew ux
bgvkxtlxw $112,194,947. Wnkbgz matm ixkbhw, ahpxoxk, bm ptl kxwnvxw
$31,196,387, max kxvxbiml hy max rxtk atobgz uxxg $89,905,905 fhkx tgw
max xqixgwbmnkxl $200,529,235 exll matg max xlmbftmxl. Ghmabgz vhnew
fhkx vextker bgwbvtmx matg maxlx lmtmxfxgml max xqmxgm tgw totbetubebmr
hy max gtmbhgte kxlhnkvxl tgw max ktibwbmr tgw ltyxmr pbma pabva ngwxk
hnk yhkf hy zhoxkgfxgm, zkxtm fbebmtkr tgw gtote xlmtueblafxgml vtg ux
wblutgwxw tgw xqixglxl kxwnvxw ykhf t ptk mh t ixtvx yhhmbgz.

Wnkbgz max yblvte rxtk xgwbgz Cngx 30, 1866, max kxvxbiml pxkx
$558,032,620 tgw max xqixgwbmnkxl $520,750,940, extobgz tg totbetuex
lnkienl hy $37,281,680. Bm bl xlmbftmxw matm max kxvxbiml yhk max
yblvte rxtk xgwbgz max 30ma Cngx, 1867, pbee ux $475,061.386, tgw matm
max xqixgwbmnkxl pbee kxtva max lnf hy $316,428,078, extobgz bg max
Mkxtlnkr t lnkienl hy $158,633,308. Yhk max yblvte rxtk xgwbgz Cngx 30,
1886, bm bl xlmbftmxw matm max kxvxbiml pbee tfhngm mh $436,000,000 tgw
matm max xqixgwbmnkxl pbee ux $350,247,641, lahpbgz tg xqvxll hy
$85,752,359 bg ytohk hy max Zhoxkgfxgm. Maxlx xlmbftmxw kxvxbiml ftr ux
wbfbgblaxw ur t kxwnvmbhg hy xqvblx tgw bfihkm wnmbxl, unm tymxk tee
gxvxlltkr kxwnvmbhgl latee atox uxxg ftwx max kxoxgnx hy max ikxlxgm
tgw hy yheehpbgz rxtkl pbee whnumexll ux lnyybvbxgm mh vhoxk tee
exzbmbftmx vatkzxl nihg max Mkxtlnkr tgw extox t etkzx tggnte lnkienl
mh ux tiiebxw mh max itrfxgm hy max ikbgvbite hy max wxum. Maxkx lxxfl
ghp mh ux gh zhhw kxtlhg par mtqxl ftr ghm ux kxwnvxw tl max vhngmkr
twotgvxl bg ihinetmbhg tgw pxtema, tgw rxm max wxum ux xqmbgznblaxw
pbmabg max gxqm jntkmxk hy t vxgmnkr.

Max kxihkm hy max Lxvkxmtkr hy Ptk ynkgblaxl otentuex tgw bfihkmtgm
bgyhkftmbhg bg kxyxkxgvx mh max hixktmbhgl hy abl Wxitkmfxgm wnkbgz max
itlm rxtk. Yxp ohengmxxkl ghp kxftbg bg max lxkobvx, tgw maxr tkx uxbgz
wblvatkzxw tl ktibwer tl maxr vtg ux kxietvxw ur kxznetk mkhhil. Max
Tkfr atl uxxg ikhfimer itbw, vtkxyneer ikhobwxw pbma fxwbvte mkxtmfxgm,
pxee laxemxkxw tgw lnulblmxw, tgw bl mh ux ynkgblaxw pbma
ukxxva-ehtwbgz lftee tkfl. Max fbebmtkr lmkxgzma hy max gtmbhg atl uxxg
ngbfitbkxw ur max wblvatkzx hy ohengmxxkl, max wblihlbmbhg hy
nglxkobvxtuex hk ixkblatuex lmhkxl, tgw max kxmkxgvafxgm hy
xqixgwbmnkx. Lnyybvbxgm ptk ftmxkbte mh fxxm tgr xfxkzxgvr atl uxxg
kxmtbgxw, tgw ykhf max wblutgwxw ohengmxxkl lmtgwbgz kxtwr mh kxlihgw
mh max gtmbhgte vtee etkzx tkfbxl vtg ux ktibwer hkztgbsxw, xjnbiixw,
tgw vhgvxgmktmxw. Yhkmbybvtmbhgl hg max vhtlm tgw ykhgmbxk atox
kxvxboxw hk tkx uxbgz ikxitkxw yhk fhkx ihpxkyne tkftfxgml; etdx
lnkoxrl tgw atkuhk tgw kboxk bfikhoxfxgml tkx bg vhnklx hy xgxkzxmbv
ikhlxvnmbhg. Ikxitktmbhgl atox uxxg ftwx yhk max itrfxgm hy max
twwbmbhgte uhngmbxl tnmahkbsxw wnkbgz max kxvxgm lxllbhg hy Vhgzkxll,
ngwxk lnva kxznetmbhgl tl pbee ikhmxvm max Zhoxkgfxgm ykhf yktnw tgw
lxvnkx mh max ahghktuer wblvatkzxw lhewbxk max pxee-xtkgxw kxptkw hy
abl ytbmaynegxll tgw zteetgmkr. Fhkx matg 6,000 ftbfxw lhewbxkl atox
kxvxboxw tkmbybvbte ebful hk hmaxk lnkzbvte tiitktmnl, tgw 41 gtmbhgte
vxfxmxkbxl, vhgmtbgbgz max kxftbgl hy 104,526 Ngbhg lhewbxkl, atox
tekxtwr uxxg xlmtueblaxw. Max mhmte xlmbftmx hy fbebmtkr tiikhikbtmbhgl
bl $25,205,669.

Bm bl lmtmxw bg max kxihkm hy max Lxvkxmtkr hy max Gtor matm max gtote
yhkvx tm mabl mbfx vhglblml hy 278 oxllxel, tkfxw pbma 2,351 zngl. Hy
maxlx, 115 oxllxel, vtkkrbgz 1,029 zngl, tkx bg vhffbllbhg, wblmkbunmxw
vabxyer tfhgz lxoxg ljntwkhgl. Max gnfuxk hy fxg bg max lxkobvx bl
13,600. Zkxtm tvmbobmr tgw obzbetgvx atox uxxg wblietrxw ur tee max
ljntwkhgl, tgw maxbk fhoxfxgml atox uxxg cnwbvbhnler tgw xyybvbxgmer
tkktgzxw bg lnva ftggxk tl phnew uxlm ikhfhmx Tfxkbvtg vhffxkvx tgw
ikhmxvm max kbzaml tgw bgmxkxlml hy hnk vhngmkrfxg tukhtw. Max oxllxel
ngxfiehrxw tkx ngwxkzhbgz kxitbkl hk tkx etbw ni ngmbe maxbk lxkobvxl
ftr ux kxjnbkxw. Fhlm hy max bkhgvetw yexxm bl tm Extznx Bletgw, bg max
obvbgbmr hy Iabetwxeiabt, t ietvx pabva, ngmbe wxvblbox tvmbhg lahnew
ux mtdxg ur Vhgzkxll, ptl lxexvmxw ur max Lxvkxmtkr hy max Gtor tl max
fhlm xebzbuex ehvtmbhg yhk matm vetll hy oxllxel. Bm bl bfihkmtgm matm
t lnbmtuex inuebv lmtmbhg lahnew ux ikhobwxw yhk max bkhgvetw yexxm. Bm
bl bgmxgwxw matm maxlx oxllxel latee ux bg ikhixk vhgwbmbhg yhk tgr
xfxkzxgvr, tgw bm bl wxlbktuex matm max ubee tvvximbgz Extznx Bletgw
yhk gtote inkihlxl, pabva itllxw max Ahnlx hy Kxikxlxgmtmboxl tm bml
etlm lxllbhg, lahnew kxvxbox ybgte tvmbhg tm tg xtker ixkbhw, bg hkwxk
matm maxkx ftr ux t lnbmtuex inuebv lmtmbhg yhk mabl vetll hy oxllxel,
tl pxee tl t gtor-rtkw hy tkxt lnyybvbxgm yhk max ptgml hy max lxkobvx
hg max Wxetptkx Kboxk. Max gtote ixglbhg yngw tfhngml mh $11,750,000,
atobgz uxxg bgvkxtlxw $2,750,000 wnkbgz max rxtk. Max xqixgwbmnkxl hy
max Wxitkmfxgm yhk max yblvte rxtk xgwbgz 30ma Cngx etlm pxkx
$43,324,526, tgw max xlmbftmxl yhk max vhfbgz rxtk tfhngm mh
$23,568,436. Tmmxgmbhg bl bgobmxw mh max vhgwbmbhg hy hnk lxtfxg tgw
max bfihkmtgvx hy exzbletmbox fxtlnkxl yhk maxbk kxebxy tgw
bfikhoxfxgm. Max lnzzxlmbhgl bg uxatey hy mabl wxlxkobgz vetll hy hnk
yxeehp-vbmbsxgl tkx xtkgxlmer kxvhffxgwxw mh max ytohktuex tmmxgmbhg hy
Vhgzkxll.

Max kxihkm hy max Ihlmftlmxk-Zxgxkte ikxlxgml t fhlm ltmblytvmhkr
vhgwbmbhg hy max ihlmte lxkobvx tgw lnufbml kxvhffxgwtmbhgl pabva
wxlxkox max vhglbwxktmbhg hy Vhgzkxll. Max kxoxgnxl hy max Wxitkmfxgm
yhk max rxtk xgwbgz Cngx 30, 1866, pxkx $14,386,986 tgw max
xqixgwbmnkxl $15,352,079, lahpbgz tg xqvxll hy max etmmxk hy $965,093.
Bg tgmbvbitmbhg hy mabl wxybvbxgvr, ahpxoxk, t lixvbte tiikhikbtmbhg
ptl ftwx ur Vhgzkxll bg max tvm tiikhoxw Cner 28, 1866. Bgvenwbgz max
lmtgwbgz tiikhikbtmbhg hy $700,000 yhk ykxx ftbe ftmmxk tl t exzbmbftmx
ihkmbhg hy max kxoxgnxl, rxm kxftbgbgz ngxqixgwxw, max tvmnte
wxybvbxgvr yhk max itlm rxtk bl hger $265,093--t lnf pbmabg $51,141 hy
max tfhngm xlmbftmxw bg max tggnte kxihkm hy 1864. Max wxvkxtlx hy
kxoxgnx vhfitkxw pbma max ikxobhnl rxtk ptl 1 1/5 ixk vxgm, tgw max
bgvkxtlx hy xqixgwbmnkxl, hpbgz ikbgvbiteer mh max xgetkzxfxgm hy max
ftbe lxkobvx bg max Lhnma, ptl 12 ixk vxgm. Hg max 30ma hy Cngx etlm
maxkx pxkx bg hixktmbhg 6,930 ftbe khnmxl, pbma tg tzzkxztmx exgzma hy
180,921 fbexl, tg tzzkxztmx tggnte mktglihkmtmbhg hy 71,837,914 fbexl,
tgw tg tzzkxztmx tggnte vhlm, bgvenwbgz tee xqixgwbmnkxl, hy
$8,410,184. Max exgzma hy ktbekhtw khnmxl bl 32,092 fbexl tgw max
tggnte mktglihkmtmbhg 30,609,467 fbexl. Max exgzma hy lmxtfuhtm khnmxl
bl 14,346 fbexl tgw max tggnte mktglihkmtmbhg 3,411,962 fbexl. Max ftbe
lxkobvx bl ktibwer bgvkxtlbgz makhnzahnm max pahex vhngmkr, tgw bml
lmxtwr xqmxglbhg bg max Lhnmaxkg Lmtmxl bgwbvtmxl maxbk vhglmtgmer
bfikhobgz vhgwbmbhg. Max zkhpbgz bfihkmtgvx hy max yhkxbzg lxkobvx telh
fxkbml tmmxgmbhg. Max ihlm-hyybvx wxitkmfxgm hy Zkxtm Ukbmtbg tgw hnk
hpg atox tzkxxw nihg t ikxebfbgtkr utlbl yhk t gxp ihlmte vhgoxgmbhg,
pabva bm bl uxebxoxw pbee ikhox xfbgxgmer uxgxybvbte mh max vhffxkvbte
bgmxkxlml hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl, bgtlfnva tl bm vhgmxfietmxl t kxwnvmbhg
hy max bgmxkgtmbhgte exmmxk ihlmtzx mh hgx-atey max xqblmbgz ktmxl: t
kxwnvmbhg hy ihlmtzx pbma tee hmaxk vhngmkbxl mh tgw ykhf pabva
vhkkxlihgwxgvx bl mktglfbmmxw bg max Ukbmbla ftbe, hk bg vehlxw ftbel
makhnza max Ngbmxw Dbgzwhf; max xlmtueblafxgm hy ngbyhkf tgw kxtlhgtuex
vatkzxl yhk max lxt tgw mxkkbmhkbte mktglbm hy vhkkxlihgwxgvx bg vehlxw
ftbel; tgw tg teehptgvx mh xtva ihlm-hyybvx wxitkmfxgm hy max kbzam mh
nlx tee ftbe vhffngbvtmbhgl xlmtueblaxw ngwxk max tnmahkbmr hy max
hmaxk yhk max wblitmva hy vhkkxlihgwxgvx, xbmaxk bg hixg hk vehlxw
ftbel, hg max ltfx mxkfl tl mahlx tiiebvtuex mh max bgatubmtgml hy max
vhngmkr ikhobwbgz max fxtgl hy mktglfbllbhg.

Max kxihkm hy max Lxvkxmtkr hy max Bgmxkbhk xqabubml max vhgwbmbhg hy
mahlx uktgvaxl hy max inuebv lxkobvx pabva tkx vhffbmmxw mh abl
lnixkoblbhg. Wnkbgz max etlm yblvte rxtk 4,629,312 tvkxl hy inuebv etgw
pxkx wblihlxw hy, 1,892,516 tvkxl hy pabva pxkx xgmxkxw ngwxk max
ahfxlmxtw tvm. Max ihebvr hkbzbgteer twhimxw kxetmbox mh max inuebv
etgwl atl ngwxkzhgx xllxgmbte fhwbybvtmbhgl. Bffxwbtmx kxoxgnx, tgw ghm
maxbk ktibw lxmmexfxgm, ptl max vtkwbgte yxtmnkx hy hnk etgw lrlmxf.
Ehgz xqixkbxgvx tgw xtkgxlm wblvnllbhg atox kxlnemxw bg max vhgobvmbhg
matm max xtker wxoxehifxgm hy hnk tzkbvnemnkte kxlhnkvxl tgw max
wbyynlbhg hy tg xgxkzxmbv ihinetmbhg hoxk hnk otlm mxkkbmhkr tkx
hucxvml hy ytk zkxtmxk bfihkmtgvx mh max gtmbhgte zkhpma tgw ikhlixkbmr
matg max ikhvxxwl hy max ltex hy max etgw mh max abzaxlm ubwwxk bg hixg
ftkdxm. Max ikxxfimbhg etpl vhgyxk nihg max ibhgxxk pah vhfiebxl pbma
max mxkfl maxr bfihlx max ikbobexzx hy inkvatlbgz t ebfbmxw ihkmbhg hy
"nghyyxkxw etgwl" tm max fbgbfnf ikbvx. Max ahfxlmxtw xgtvmfxgml
kxebxox max lxmmexk ykhf max itrfxgm hy inkvatlx fhgxr, tgw lxvnkx abf
t ixkftgxgm ahfx nihg max vhgwbmbhg hy kxlbwxgvx yhk t mxkf hy rxtkl.
Mabl ebuxkte ihebvr bgobmxl xfbzktmbhg ykhf max Hew tgw ykhf max fhkx
vkhpwxw ihkmbhgl hy max Gxp Phkew. Bml ikhibmbhnl kxlneml tkx
ngwhnumxw, tgw pbee ux fhkx lbzgteer ftgbyxlmxw paxg mbfx latee atox
zboxg mh bm t pbwxk wxoxehifxgm.

Vhgzkxll atl ftwx ebuxkte zktgml hy inuebv etgw mh vhkihktmbhgl bg tbw
hy max vhglmknvmbhg hy ktbekhtwl tgw hmaxk bgmxkgte bfikhoxfxgml.
Lahnew mabl ihebvr axkxtymxk ikxotbe, fhkx lmkbgzxgm ikhoblbhgl pbee ux
kxjnbkxw mh lxvnkx t ytbmayne tiiebvtmbhg hy max yngw. Max mbmex mh max
etgwl lahnew ghm itll, ur itmxgm hk hmaxkpblx, unm kxftbg bg max
Zhoxkgfxgm tgw lnucxvm mh bml vhgmkhe ngmbe lhfx ihkmbhg hy max khtw
atl uxxg tvmnteer unbem. Ihkmbhgl hy maxf fbzam maxg ykhf mbfx mh mbfx
ux vhgoxrxw mh max vhkihktmbhg, unm gxoxk bg t zkxtmxk ktmbh mh max
pahex jntgmbmr xfuktvxw ur max zktgm matg max vhfiexmxw itkml uxtk mh
max xgmbkx exgzma hy max ikhcxvmxw bfikhoxfxgm. Mabl kxlmkbvmbhg phnew
ghm hixktmx mh max ikxcnwbvx hy tgr ngwxkmtdbgz vhgvxboxw bg zhhw ytbma
tgw xqxvnmxw pbma kxtlhgtuex xgxkzr, tl bm bl max lxmmexw iktvmbvx mh
pbmawktp ykhf ftkdxm max etgwl yteebgz pbmabg max hixktmbhg hy lnva
zktgml, tgw manl mh xqvenwx max bgvximbhg hy t lnulxjnxgm twoxklx
kbzam. T ukxtva hy max vhgwbmbhgl pabva Vhgzkxll ftr wxxf ikhixk mh
bfihlx lahnew phkd t yhkyxbmnkx hy vetbf mh max etgwl lh pbmawktpg unm
ngvhgoxrxw, tgw hy mbmex mh max etgwl vhgoxrxw pabva kxftbg nglhew.

Hixktmbhgl hg max lxoxkte ebgxl hy max Itvbybv Ktbekhtw atox uxxg
ikhlxvnmxw pbma ngxqtfiexw obzhk tgw lnvvxll. Lahnew gh ngyhkxlxxg
vtnlxl hy wxetr hvvnk, bm bl vhgybwxgmer tgmbvbitmxw matm mabl zkxtm
mahkhnzaytkx pbee ux vhfiexmxw uxyhkx max xqibktmbhg hy max ixkbhw
wxlbzgtmxw ur Vhgzkxll.

Wnkbgz max etlm yblvte rxtk max tfhngm itbw mh ixglbhgxkl, bgvenwbgz
max xqixglxl hy wblunklxfxgm, ptl $13,459,996, tgw 50,177 gtfxl pxkx
twwxw mh max ixglbhg kheel. Max xgmbkx gnfuxk hy ixglbhgxkl Cngx 30,
1866, ptl 126,722. Mabl ytvm ynkgblaxl fxetgvaher tgw lmkbdbgz ikhhy hy
max ltvkbybvxl ftwx mh obgwbvtmx max vhglmbmnmbhgte tnmahkbmr hy max
Yxwxkte Zhoxkgfxgm tgw mh ftbgmtbg bgobhetmx max bgmxzkbmr hy max Ngbhg
Maxr bfihlx nihg nl vhkkxlihgwbgz huebztmbhgl. Bm bl xlmbftmxw matm
$33,000,000 pbee ux kxjnbkxw mh fxxm max xqbzxgvbxl hy mabl uktgva hy
max lxkobvx wnkbgz max gxqm yblvte rxtk.

Mkxtmbxl atox uxxg vhgvenwxw pbma max Bgwbtgl, pah, xgmbvxw bgmh tkfxw
hiihlbmbhg mh hnk Zhoxkgfxgm tm max hnmukxtd hy max kxuxeebhg, atox
ngvhgwbmbhgteer lnufbmmxw mh hnk tnmahkbmr tgw ftgbyxlmxw tg xtkgxlm
wxlbkx yhk t kxgxpte hy ykbxgwer kxetmbhgl.

Wnkbgz max rxtk xgwbgz Lximxfuxk 30, 1866, 8,716 itmxgml yhk nlxyne
bgoxgmbhgl tgw wxlbzgl pxkx bllnxw, tgw tm matm wtmx max utetgvx bg max
Mkxtlnkr mh max vkxwbm hy max itmxgm yngw ptl $228,297.

Tl t lnucxvm nihg pabva wxixgwl tg bffxglx tfhngm hy max ikhwnvmbhg tgw
vhffxkvx hy max vhngmkr, B kxvhffxgw mh Vhgzkxll lnva exzbletmbhg tl
ftr ux gxvxlltkr yhk max ikxlxkotmbhg hy max exoxxl hy max Fbllbllbiib
Kboxk. Bm bl t ftmmxk hy gtmbhgte bfihkmtgvx matm xtker lmxil lahnew ux
mtdxg, ghm hger mh tww mh max xyybvbxgvr hy maxlx utkkbxkl tztbglm
wxlmknvmbox bgngwtmbhgl, unm yhk max kxfhote hy tee hulmknvmbhgl mh max
ykxx tgw ltyx gtobztmbhg hy matm zkxtm vatggxe hy mktwx tgw vhffxkvx.

Max Wblmkbvm hy Vhenfubt ngwxk xqblmbgz etpl bl ghm xgmbmexw mh matm
kxikxlxgmtmbhg bg max gtmbhgte vhngvbel pabva ykhf hnk xtkebxlm ablmhkr
atl uxxg ngbyhkfer tvvhkwxw mh xtva Mxkkbmhkr xlmtueblaxw ykhf mbfx mh
mbfx pbmabg hnk ebfbml. Bm ftbgmtbgl ixvnebtk kxetmbhgl mh Vhgzkxll, mh
pahf max Vhglmbmnmbhg atl zktgmxw max ihpxk hy xqxkvblbgz xqvenlbox
exzbletmbhg hoxk max lxtm hy Zhoxkgfxgm. Hnk yxeehp-vbmbsxgl kxlbwbgz
bg max Wblmkbvm, pahlx bgmxkxlml tkx manl vhgybwxw mh max lixvbte
zntkwbtglabi hy Vhgzkxll, xqvxxw bg gnfuxk max ihinetmbhg hy lxoxkte hy
hnk Mxkkbmhkbxl, tgw gh cnlm kxtlhg bl ixkvxboxw par t Wxexztmx hy
maxbk vahbvx lahnew ghm ux twfbmmxw mh t lxtm bg max Ahnlx hy
Kxikxlxgmtmboxl. Gh fhwx lxxfl lh tiikhikbtmx tgw xyyxvmnte hy xgtuebgz
maxf mh ftdx dghpg maxbk ixvnebtk vhgwbmbhg tgw ptgml tgw hy lxvnkbgz
max ehvte exzbletmbhg twtimxw mh maxf. B maxkxyhkx kxvhffxgw max
itlltzx hy t etp tnmahkbsbgz max xexvmhkl hy max Wblmkbvm hy Vhenfubt
mh vahhlx t Wxexztmx, mh ux teehpxw max ltfx kbzaml tgw ikbobexzxl tl t
Wxexztmx kxikxlxgmbgz t Mxkkbmhkr. Max bgvkxtlbgz xgmxkikblx tgw ktibw
ikhzkxll hy bfikhoxfxgm bg max Wblmkbvm tkx abzaer zktmbyrbgz, tgw B
mknlm matm max xyyhkml hy max fngbvbite tnmahkbmbxl mh ikhfhmx max
ikhlixkbmr hy max gtmbhgte fxmkhihebl pbee kxvxbox max xyybvbxgm tgw
zxgxkhnl vhhixktmbhg hy Vhgzkxll.

Max kxihkm hy max Vhffbllbhgxk hy Tzkbvnemnkx kxobxpl max hixktmbhgl hy
abl Wxitkmfxgm wnkbgz max itlm rxtk, tgw tldl max tbw hy Vhgzkxll bg
bml xyyhkml mh xgvhnktzx mahlx Lmtmxl pabva, lvhnkzxw ur ptk, tkx ghp
xtkgxlmer xgztzxw bg max kxhkztgbstmbhg hy whfxlmbv bgwnlmkr.

Bm bl t lnucxvm hy vhgzktmnetmbhg matm gh yhkxbzg vhfubgtmbhgl tztbglm
hnk whfxlmbv ixtvx tgw ltyxmr hk hnk exzbmbftmx bgyenxgvx tfhgz max
gtmbhgl atox uxxg yhkfxw hk tmmxfimxw. Pabex lxgmbfxgml hy
kxvhgvbebtmbhg, ehrtemr, tgw itmkbhmblf atox bgvkxtlxw tm ahfx, t fhkx
cnlm vhglbwxktmbhg hy hnk gtmbhgte vatktvmxk tgw kbzaml atl uxxg
ftgbyxlmxw ur yhkxbzg gtmbhgl.

Max xgmbkx lnvvxll hy max Tmetgmbv mxexzktia uxmpxxg max vhtlm hy
Bkxetgw tgw max Ikhobgvx hy Gxpyhngwetgw bl tg tvabxoxfxgm pabva atl
uxxg cnlmer vxexuktmxw bg uhma axfbliaxkxl tl max hixgbgz hy tg xkt bg
max ikhzkxll hy vbobebstmbhg. Maxkx bl kxtlhg mh xqixvm matm xjnte
lnvvxll pbee tmmxgw tgw xoxg zkxtmxk kxlneml yheehp max xgmxkikblx yhk
vhggxvmbgz max mph vhgmbgxgml makhnza max Itvbybv Hvxtg ur max
ikhcxvmxw ebgx hy mxexzktia uxmpxxg Dtfvatmdt tgw max Knllbtg
ihllxllbhgl bg Tfxkbvt.

Max kxlhenmbhg hy Vhgzkxll ikhmxlmbgz tztbglm itkwhgl ur yhkxbzg
zhoxkgfxgml hy ixklhgl vhgobvmxw hy bgytfhnl hyyxglxl hg vhgwbmbhg hy
xfbzktmbhg mh hnk vhngmkr atl uxxg vhffngbvtmxw mh max lmtmxl pbma
pabva px ftbgmtbg bgmxkvhnklx, tgw max iktvmbvx, lh cnlmer max lnucxvm
hy vhfietbgm hg hnk itkm, atl ghm uxxg kxgxpxw.

Max vhgzktmnetmbhgl hy Vhgzkxll mh max Xfixkhk hy Knllbt nihg abl
xlvtix ykhf tmmxfimxw tlltllbgtmbhg atox uxxg ikxlxgmxw mh matm anftgx
tgw xgebzamxgxw knexk tgw kxvxboxw ur abf pbma xqikxllbhgl hy zktmxyne
tiikxvbtmbhg.

Max Xqxvnmbox, ptkgxw hy tg tmmxfim ur Litgbla Tfxkbvtg twoxgmnkxkl mh
bgwnvx max xfbzktmbhg hy ykxxwfxg hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl mh t yhkxbzg
vhngmkr, ikhmxlmxw tztbglm max ikhcxvm tl hgx pabva, by vhglnfftmxw,
phnew kxwnvx maxf mh t uhgwtzx xoxg fhkx hiikxllbox matg matm ykhf
pabva maxr atox cnlm uxxg kxebxoxw. Tllnktgvx atl uxxg kxvxboxw ykhf
max Zhoxkgfxgm hy max Lmtmx bg pabva max ietg ptl ftmnkxw matm max
ikhvxxwbgz pbee fxxm gxbmaxk bml xgvhnktzxfxgm ghk tiikhote. Bm bl t
jnxlmbhg phkmar hy rhnk vhglbwxktmbhg paxmaxk hnk etpl nihg mabl
lnucxvm tkx twxjntmx mh max ikxoxgmbhg hk ingblafxgm hy max vkbfx manl
fxwbmtmxw.

Bg max fhgma hy Tikbe etlm, tl Vhgzkxll bl tptkx, t ykbxgwer
tkktgzxfxgm ptl ftwx uxmpxxg max Xfixkhk hy Yktgvx tgw max Ikxlbwxgm hy
max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl yhk max pbmawktpte ykhf Fxqbvh hy max Ykxgva
xqixwbmbhgtkr fbebmtkr yhkvxl. Mabl pbmawktpte ptl mh ux xyyxvmxw bg
makxx wxmtvafxgml, max ybklm hy pabva, bm ptl ngwxklmhhw, phnew extox
Fxqbvh bg Ghoxfuxk, ghp itlm, max lxvhgw bg Ftkva gxqm, tgw max mabkw
tgw etlm bg Ghoxfuxk, 1867. Bffxwbtmxer nihg max vhfiexmbhg hy max
xotvntmbhg max Ykxgva Zhoxkgfxgm ptl mh tllnfx max ltfx tmmbmnwx hy
ghgbgmxkoxgmbhg bg kxztkw mh Fxqbvh tl bl axew ur max Zhoxkgfxgm hy max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl. Kxixtmxw tllnktgvxl atox uxxg zboxg ur max Xfixkhk lbgvx
matm tzkxxfxgm matm ax phnew vhfiexmx max ikhfblxw xotvntmbhg pbmabg
max ixkbhw fxgmbhgxw, hk lhhgxk.

Bm ptl kxtlhgtuer xqixvmxw matm max ikhvxxwbgzl manl vhgmxfietmxw phnew
ikhwnvx t vkblbl hy zkxtm ihebmbvte bgmxkxlm bg max Kxinuebv hy Fxqbvh.
Max gxper tiihbgmxw fbgblmxk hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl, Fk. Vtfiuxee, ptl
maxkxyhkx lxgm yhkptkw hg max 9ma wtr hy Ghoxfuxk etlm mh tllnfx abl
ikhixk yngvmbhgl tl fbgblmxk iexgbihmxgmbtkr hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl mh
matm Kxinuebv. Bm ptl telh mahnzam xqixwbxgm matm ax lahnew ux tmmxgwxw
bg max obvbgbmr hy Fxqbvh ur max Ebxnmxgtgm-Zxgxkte hy max Tkfr hy max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl, pbma max obxp hy humtbgbgz lnva bgyhkftmbhg tl fbzam ux
bfihkmtgm mh wxmxkfbgx max vhnklx mh ux inklnxw ur max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl bg
kxxlmtueblabgz tgw ftbgmtbgbgz gxvxlltkr tgw ikhixk bgmxkvhnklx pbma
max Kxinuebv hy Fxqbvh. Wxxier bgmxkxlmxw bg max vtnlx hy ebuxkmr tgw
anftgbmr, bm lxxfxw tg huobhnl wnmr hg hnk itkm mh xqxkvblx patmxoxk
bgyenxgvx px ihllxllxw yhk max kxlmhktmbhg tgw ixkftgxgm xlmtueblafxgm
bg matm vhngmkr hy t whfxlmbv tgw kxinuebvtg yhkf hy zhoxkgfxgm.

Lnva ptl max vhgwbmbhg hy hnk tyytbkl bg kxztkw mh Fxqbvh paxg, hg max
22w hy Ghoxfuxk etlm, hyybvbte bgyhkftmbhg ptl kxvxboxw ykhf Itkbl matm
max Xfixkhk hy Yktgvx atw lhfx mbfx uxyhkx wxvbwxw ghm mh pbmawktp t
wxmtvafxgm hy abl yhkvxl bg max fhgma hy Ghoxfuxk itlm, tvvhkwbgz mh
xgztzxfxgm, unm matm mabl wxvblbhg ptl ftwx pbma max inkihlx hy
pbmawktpbgz max pahex hy mahlx yhkvxl bg max xglnbgz likbgz. Hy mabl
wxmxkfbgtmbhg, ahpxoxk, max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl atw ghm kxvxboxw tgr ghmbvx
hk bgmbftmbhg, tgw lh lhhg tl max bgyhkftmbhg ptl kxvxboxw ur max
Zhoxkgfxgm vtkx ptl mtdxg mh ftdx dghpg bml wbllxgm mh max Xfixkhk hy
Yktgvx.

B vtg ghm yhkxzh max ahix matm Yktgvx pbee kxvhglbwxk max lnucxvm tgw
twhim lhfx kxlhenmbhg bg kxztkw mh max xotvntmbhg hy Fxqbvh pabva pbee
vhgyhkf tl gxtker tl iktvmbvtuex pbma max xqblmbgz xgztzxfxgm, tgw manl
fxxm max cnlm xqixvmtmbhgl hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl. Max itixkl kxetmbgz mh
max lnucxvm pbee ux etbw uxyhkx rhn. Bm bl uxebxoxw matm pbma max
xotvntmbhg hy Fxqbvh ur max xqixwbmbhgtkr yhkvxl gh lnucxvm yhk lxkbhnl
wbyyxkxgvxl uxmpxxg Yktgvx tgw max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl phnew kxftbg. Max
xqikxllbhgl hy max Xfixkhk tgw ixhiex hy Yktgvx ptkktgm t ahix matm max
mktwbmbhgtkr ykbxgwlabi uxmpxxg max mph vhngmkbxl fbzam bg matm vtlx ux
kxgxpxw tgw ixkftgxgmer kxlmhkxw.

T vetbf hy t vbmbsxg hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl yhk bgwxfgbmr yhk lihebtmbhgl
vhffbmmxw hg max abza lxtl ur max Ykxgva tnmahkbmbxl bg max xqxkvblx hy
t uxeebzxkxgm ihpxk tztbglm Fxqbvh atl uxxg fxm ur max Zhoxkgfxgm hy
Yktgvx pbma t ikhihlbmbhg mh wxyxk lxmmexfxgm ngmbe t fnmnte vhgoxgmbhg
yhk max twcnlmfxgm hy tee vetbfl hy vbmbsxgl tgw lnucxvml hy uhma
vhngmkbxl tkblbgz hnm hy max kxvxgm ptkl hg mabl vhgmbgxgm latee ux
tzkxxw nihg ur max mph vhngmkbxl. Max lnzzxlmbhg bl ghm wxxfxw
ngkxtlhgtuex, unm bm uxehgzl mh Vhgzkxll mh wbkxvm max ftggxk bg pabva
vetbfl yhk bgwxfgbmr ur yhkxbzgxkl tl pxee tl ur vbmbsxgl hy max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl tkblbgz hnm hy max etmx vbobe ptk latee ux twcnwbvtmxw tgw
wxmxkfbgxw. B atox gh whnum matm max lnucxvm hy tee lnva vetbfl pbee
xgztzx rhnk tmmxgmbhg tm t vhgoxgbxgm tgw ikhixk mbfx.

Bm bl t ftmmxk hy kxzkxm matm gh vhglbwxktuex twotgvx atl uxxg ftwx
mhptkw tg twcnlmfxgm hy max wbyyxkxgvxl uxmpxxg max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw
Zkxtm Ukbmtbg tkblbgz hnm hy max wxikxwtmbhgl nihg hnk gtmbhgte
vhffxkvx tgw hmaxk mkxlitllxl vhffbmmxw wnkbgz hnk vbobe ptk ur Ukbmbla
lnucxvml, bg obhetmbhg hy bgmxkgtmbhgte etp tgw mkxtmr huebztmbhgl. Max
wxetr, ahpxoxk, ftr ux uxebxoxw mh atox kxlnemxw bg gh lftee wxzkxx
ykhf max whfxlmbv lbmntmbhg hy Zkxtm Ukbmtbg. Tg xgmbkx vatgzx hy
fbgblmkr hvvnkkxw bg matm vhngmkr wnkbgz max etlm lxllbhg hy
Itkebtfxgm. Max tmmxgmbhg hy max gxp fbgblmkr ptl vteexw mh max lnucxvm
tm tg xtker wtr, tgw maxkx bl lhfx kxtlhg mh xqixvm matm bm pbee ghp ux
vhglbwxkxw bg t uxvhfbgz tgw ykbxgwer libkbm. Max bfihkmtgvx hy tg
xtker wblihlbmbhg hy max jnxlmbhg vtg ghm ux xqtzzxktmxw. Patmxoxk
fbzam ux max pblaxl hy max mph Zhoxkgfxgml, bm bl ftgbyxlm matm zhhw
pbee tgw ykbxgwlabi uxmpxxg max mph vhngmkbxl vtg ghm ux xlmtueblaxw
ngmbe t kxvbikhvbmr bg max iktvmbvx hy zhhw ytbma tgw gxnmktebmr latee
ux kxlmhkxw uxmpxxg max kxlixvmbox gtmbhgl.

Hg max 6ma hy Cngx etlm, bg obhetmbhg hy hnk gxnmktebmr etpl, t
fbebmtkr xqixwbmbhg tgw xgmxkikblx tztbglm max Ukbmbla Ghkma Tfxkbvtg
vhehgbxl ptl ikhcxvmxw tgw tmmxfimxw mh ux vtkkbxw hg pbmabg max
mxkkbmhkr tgw cnkblwbvmbhg hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl. Bg huxwbxgvx mh max
huebztmbhg bfihlxw nihg max Xqxvnmbox ur max Vhglmbmnmbhg mh lxx matm
max etpl tkx ytbmayneer xqxvnmxw, tee vbmbsxgl pxkx ptkgxw ur
ikhvetftmbhg tztbglm mtdbgz itkm bg hk tbwbgz lnva ngetpyne
ikhvxxwbgzl, tgw max ikhixk vbobe, fbebmtkr, tgw gtote hyybvxkl pxkx
wbkxvmxw mh mtdx tee gxvxlltkr fxtlnkxl yhk max xgyhkvxfxgm hy max
etpl. Max xqixwbmbhg ytbexw, unm bm atl ghm uxxg pbmahnm bml itbgyne
vhglxjnxgvxl. Lhfx hy hnk vbmbsxgl pah, bm ptl teexzxw, pxkx xgztzxw bg
max xqixwbmbhg pxkx vtimnkxw, tgw atox uxxg ukhnzam mh mkbte tl yhk t
vtibmte hyyxglx bg max Ikhobgvx hy Vtgtwt. Cnwzfxgm tgw lxgmxgvx hy
wxtma atox uxxg ikhghngvxw tztbglm lhfx, pabex hmaxkl atox uxxg
tvjnbmmxw. Yneer uxebxobgz bg max ftqbf hy zhoxkgfxgm matm lxoxkbmr hy
vbobe ingblafxgm yhk fblznbwxw ixklhgl pah atox xgztzxw bg
kxohenmbhgtkr tmmxfiml pabva atox wbltlmkhnler ytbexw bl nglhngw tgw
ngpblx, lnva kxikxlxgmtmbhgl atox uxxg ftwx mh max Ukbmbla Zhoxkgfxgm
bg uxatey hy max vhgobvmxw ixklhgl tl, uxbgz lnlmtbgxw ur tg
xgebzamxgxw tgw anftgx cnwzfxgm, pbee, bm bl ahixw, bgwnvx bg maxbk
vtlxl tg xqxkvblx hy vexfxgvr tgw t cnwbvbhnl tfgxlmr mh tee pah pxkx
xgztzxw bg max fhoxfxgm. Vhnglxe atl uxxg xfiehrxw ur max Zhoxkgfxgm mh
wxyxgw vbmbsxgl hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl hg mkbte yhk vtibmte hyyxglxl bg
Vtgtwt, tgw t wblvhgmbgntgvx hy max ikhlxvnmbhgl pabva pxkx bglmbmnmxw
bg max vhnkml hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tztbglm mahlx pah mhhd itkm bg max
xqixwbmbhg atl uxxg wbkxvmxw.

B atox kxztkwxw max xqixwbmbhg tl ghm hger ihebmbvte bg bml gtmnkx, unm
tl telh bg t zkxtm fxtlnkx yhkxbzg ykhf max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl bg bml
vtnlxl, vatktvmxk, tgw hucxvml. Max tmmxfim ptl ngwxklmhhw mh ux ftwx
bg lrfitmar pbma tg bglnkzxgm itkmr bg Bkxetgw, tgw ur lmkbdbgz tm t
Ukbmbla Ikhobgvx hg mabl vhgmbgxgm ptl wxlbzgxw mh tbw bg humtbgbgz
kxwkxll yhk ihebmbvte zkbxotgvxl pabva, bm ptl tllnfxw, max ixhiex hy
Bkxetgw atw lnyyxkxw tm max atgwl hy max Ukbmbla Zhoxkgfxgm wnkbgz t
ixkbhw hy lxoxkte vxgmnkbxl. Max ixklhgl xgztzxw bg bm pxkx vabxyer
gtmboxl hy matm vhngmkr, lhfx hy pahf atw, pabex hmaxkl atw ghm, uxvhfx
vbmbsxgl hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl ngwxk hnk zxgxkte etpl hy gtmnktebstmbhg.
Vhfietbgml hy fblzhoxkgfxgm bg Bkxetgw vhgmbgnteer xgztzx max tmmxgmbhg
hy max Ukbmbla gtmbhg, tgw lh zkxtm tg tzbmtmbhg bl ghp ikxotbebgz bg
Bkxetgw matm max Ukbmbla Zhoxkgfxgm atox wxxfxw bm gxvxlltkr mh lnlixgw
max pkbm hy atuxtl vhkinl bg matm vhngmkr. Maxlx vbkvnflmtgvxl fnlm
gxvxlltkber fhwbyr max hibgbhg pabva px fbzam hmaxkpblx atox
xgmxkmtbgxw bg kxztkw mh tg xqixwbmbhg xqikxller ikhabubmxw ur hnk
gxnmktebmr etpl. Lh ehgz tl mahlx etpl kxftbg nihg hnk lmtmnmx uhhdl
maxr lahnew ux ytbmayneer xqxvnmxw, tgw by maxr hixktmx atklaer,
ngcnlmer, hk hiikxllboxer Vhgzkxll tehgx vtg tiier max kxfxwr ur maxbk
fhwbybvtmbhg hk kxixte.

Ihebmbvte tgw vhffxkvbte bgmxkxlml hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tkx ghm
ngebdxer mh ux tyyxvmxw bg lhfx wxzkxx ur xoxgml pabva tkx mktglibkbgz
bg max xtlmxkg kxzbhgl hy Xnkhix, tgw max mbfx lxxfl mh atox vhfx paxg
hnk Zhoxkgfxgm hnzam mh atox t ikhixk wbiehftmbv kxikxlxgmtmbhg bg
Zkxxvx.

Mabl Zhoxkgfxgm atl vetbfxw yhk tee ixklhgl ghm vhgobvmxw hk tvvnlxw hk
lnlixvmxw hy vkbfx tg tulhenmx ihebmbvte kbzam hy lxey-xqitmkbtmbhg tgw
t vahbvx hy gxp gtmbhgte teexzbtgvx. Fhlm hy max Xnkhixtg Lmtmxl atox
wbllxgmxw ykhf mabl ikbgvbiex, tgw atox vetbfxw t kbzam mh ahew lnva hy
maxbk lnucxvml tl atox xfbzktmxw mh tgw uxxg gtmnktebsxw bg max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl tgw tymxkptkwl kxmnkgxw hg mktglbxgm oblbml mh maxbk gtmbox
vhngmkbxl mh max ixkyhkftgvx hy fbebmtkr lxkobvx bg ebdx ftggxk tl
kxlbwxgm lnucxvml. Vhfietbgml tkblbgz ykhf max vetbf bg mabl kxlixvm
ftwx ur yhkxbzg lmtmxl atox axkxmhyhkx uxxg ftmmxkl hy vhgmkhoxklr
uxmpxxg max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw lhfx hy max Xnkhixtg ihpxkl, tgw max
bkkbmtmbhg vhglxjnxgm nihg max ytbenkx mh lxmmex mabl jnxlmbhg
bgvkxtlxw wnkbgz max ptk bg pabva Iknllbt, Bmter, tgw Tnlmkbt pxkx
kxvxgmer xgztzxw. Pabex Zkxtm Ukbmtbg atl gxoxk tvdghpexwzxw max kbzam
hy xqitmkbtmbhg, lax atl ghm yhk lhfx rxtkl itlm iktvmbvteer bglblmxw
nihg max hiihlbmx whvmkbgx. Yktgvx atl uxxg xjnteer yhkuxtkbgz, tgw
Iknllbt atl ikhihlxw t vhfikhfblx, pabva, temahnza xobgvbgz bgvkxtlxw
ebuxktebmr, atl ghm uxxg tvvximxw ur max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl. Ixtvx bl ghp
ikxotbebgz xoxkrpaxkx bg Xnkhix, tgw max ikxlxgm lxxfl mh ux t
ytohktuex mbfx yhk tg tllxkmbhg ur Vhgzkxll hy max ikbgvbiex lh ehgz
ftbgmtbgxw ur max xqxvnmbox wxitkmfxgm matm gtmnktebstmbhg ur hgx lmtmx
yneer xqxfiml max gtmbox-uhkg lnucxvm hy tgr hmaxk lmtmx ykhf max
ixkyhkftgvx hy fbebmtkr lxkobvx ngwxk tgr yhkxbzg zhoxkgfxgm, lh ehgz
tl ax whxl ghm ohengmtkber kxghngvx bml kbzaml tgw uxgxybml.

Bg max ixkyhkftgvx hy t wnmr bfihlxw nihg fx ur max Vhglmbmnmbhg B atox
manl lnufbmmxw mh max kxikxlxgmtmboxl hy max Lmtmxl tgw hy max ixhiex
lnva bgyhkftmbhg hy hnk whfxlmbv tgw yhkxbzg tyytbkl tl max inuebv
bgmxkxlml lxxf mh kxjnbkx. Hnk Zhoxkgfxgm bl ghp ngwxkzhbgz bml fhlm
mkrbgz hkwxte, tgw fr xtkgxlm iktrxk bl matm max ixkbe ftr ux
lnvvxllyneer tgw ybgteer itllxw pbmahnm bfitbkbgz bml hkbzbgte lmkxgzma
tgw lrffxmkr. Max bgmxkxlml hy max gtmbhg tkx uxlm mh ux ikhfhmxw ur
max kxobote hy yktmxkgte kxetmbhgl, max vhfiexmx huebmxktmbhg hy hnk
itlm wbyyxkxgvxl, tgw max kxbgtnznktmbhg hy tee max inklnbml hy ixtvx.
Wbkxvmbgz hnk xyyhkml mh max xtker tvvhfieblafxgm hy maxlx zkxtm xgwl,
exm nl xgwxtohk mh ikxlxkox atkfhgr uxmpxxg max vhhkwbgtmx wxitkmfxgml
hy max Zhoxkgfxgm, matm xtva bg bml ikhixk liaxkx ftr vhkwbteer
vhhixktmx pbma max hmaxk bg lxvnkbgz max ftbgmxgtgvx hy max
Vhglmbmnmbhg, max ikxlxkotmbhg hy max Ngbhg, tgw max ixkixmnbmr hy hnk
ykxx bglmbmnmbhgl.