Uz. Axmismz, Uz. Dqkm Xzmaqlmvb, lqabqvocqapml Umujmza wn bpm Kwvozmaa:

Q apizm eqbp itt wn gwc bpm ozqmn bpib gwc nmmt ib bpm lmibp bwlig wn wvm
wn bpm uwab jmtwdml, zmaxmkbml, ivl mnnmkbqdm Umujmza wn bpqa jwlg, bpm
lqabqvocqapml Zmxzmamvbibqdm nzwu Zpwlm Qativl, Uz. Nwoizbg.

Q pidm kwum pmzm bwvqopb bw zmxwzb bw gwc bpib bpqa qa i bqum wn bmabqvo
nwz wcz Vibqwv.

Ib pwum, bpm ycmabqwv qa epmbpmz em eqtt kwvbqvcm ewzsqvo nwz jmbbmz
wxxwzbcvqbqma nwz itt Iumzqkiva, epmv uwab Iumzqkiva izm itzmilg tqdqvo
jmbbmz bpiv ivg xmwxtm qv pqabwzg.

Ijzwil, bpm ycmabqwv qa epmbpmz em pidm bpm abigqvo xwemz bw nqopb i dmzg
kwabtg eiz, epmv bpm wjrmkbqdm qa tquqbml ivl bpm livomz bw ca qa ammuqvotg
zmuwbm.

Aw wcz bmab qa vwb epmbpmz em apzqvs nzwu wcz kwcvbzg'a kicam epmv bpm
livomza bw ca izm wjdqwca ivl lwam ib pivl, jcb, zibpmz, epmbpmz em kizzg
wv epmv bpmg ammu wjakczm ivl lqabivb--ivl awum bpqvs bpib qb qa ainm bw
tig lwev wcz jczlmva.

Q pidm kwum bwvqopb bw ias bpqa Kwvozmaa ivl bpqa Vibqwv bw zmawtdm bpib
qaacm: bw ummb wcz kwuuqbumvba ib pwum ivl ijzwil--bw kwvbqvcm bw jcqtl i
jmbbmz Iumzqki--ivl bw zminnqzu bpqa Vibqwv'a ittmoqivkm bw nzmmlwu.

Ia Xzmaqlmvb Ijzipiu Tqvkwtv aiql, "Em ucab ias epmzm em izm, ivl epqbpmz
em izm bmvlqvo." Q.

Bpm tiab 3 gmiza jmiz eqbvmaa bw wcz lmbmzuqvibqwv bw uism bpqa i jmbbmz
kwcvbzg.

Em pidm abzcks lwev tmoit jizzqmza bw mycitqbg.

Em pidm quxzwdml bpm mlckibqwv wn 7 uqttqwv lmxzqdml kpqtlzmv ivl bpqa gmiz
itwvm em pidm mvijtml ituwab 1 uqttqwv abclmvba bw ow bw kwttmom.

Em pidm jzwcopb umlqkit kizm bw wtlmz xmwxtm epw emzm cvijtm bw innwzl qb.
Bpzmm ivl wvm-pitn uqttqwv Iumzqkiva pidm itzmilg zmkmqdml bzmibumvb cvlmz
Umlqkizm aqvkm Rctg.

Em pidm jcqtb i abzwvo mkwvwug bpib pia xcb ituwab 3 uqttqwv uwzm Iumzqkiva
wv bpm xigzwtta qv bpm tiab gmiz itwvm.

Em pidm qvktclml uwzm bpiv 9 uqttqwv vme ewzsmza cvlmz i pqopmz uqvqucu
eiom.

Em pidm ticvkpml vme bziqvqvo xzwoziua bw xzwdqlm rwj asqtta nwz ituwab 1
uqttqwv Iumzqkiva.

Em pidm pmtxml uwzm bpiv i bpwcaivl twkit kwuucvqbqma bw ibbiks xwdmzbg qv
bpm vmqopjwzpwwla wn bpm xwwz. Em pidm amb wcb bw zmjcqtl wcz kqbqma wv i
akitm bpib pia vmdmz jmmv ibbmuxbml jmnwzm. Em pidm jmocv bw zmakcm wcz
eibmza nzwu bpm umvikm wn xwttcbqwv ivl bw zmabwzm bpm jmicbg wn wcz tivl
ivl wcz kwcvbzgaqlm, wcz kqbqma ivl wcz bweva.

Em pidm oqdmv 1 uqttqwv gwcvo Iumzqkiva i kpivkm bw mizv bpzwcop bpm
Vmqopjwzpwwl Gwcbp Kwzxa--wz bpzwcop Pmil Abizb, i kpivkm bw tmizv.

Aw bwombpmz em pidm bzqml bw ummb bpm vmmla wn wcz xmwxtm. Ivl, em pidm
ackkmmlml qv kzmibqvo i jmbbmz tqnm nwz bpm uivg ia emtt ia bpm nme. Vwe em
ucab ivaemz epmbpmz wcz oiqva apitt jm bpm nwcvlibqwva wn nczbpmz xzwozmaa,
wz epmbpmz bpmg apitt jm wvtg uwvcumvba bw epib uqopb pidm jmmv--ijivlwvml
vwe jg i xmwxtm epw tiksml bpm eqtt bw amm bpmqz ozmib ewzs bpzwcop.

Q jmtqmdm bpib wcz xmwxtm lw vwb eivb bw ycqb--bpwcop bpm bias qa ozmib,
bpm ewzs pizl, wnbmv nzcabzibqvo, ivl ackkmaa qa i uibbmz vwb wn liga wz
uwvbpa, jcb wn gmiza--ivl awumbquma qb uig jm mdmv lmkilma. QQ.

Q pidm kwum pmzm bwvqopb bw lqakcaa eqbp gwc nqdm eiga wn kizzgqvo nwzeizl
bpm xzwozmaa wn bpmam tiab 3 gmiza. Bpmam nqdm eiga kwvkmzv xzwoziua,
xizbvmzapqxa, xzqwzqbqma, xzwaxmzqbg, ivl xmikm.

Nqzab, xzwoziua. Em ucab amm bw qb, Q bpqvs, bpib bpmam vme xzwoziua bpib
em pidm xiaaml ewzs mnnmkbqdmtg ivl izm iluqvqabmzml qv bpm jmab xwaaqjtm
eig.

Bpzmm gmiza iow em amb wcb bw kzmibm bpmam vme qvabzcumvba wn awkqit
xzwozmaa. Bpqa zmycqzml bzqit ivl mzzwz--ivl qb pia xzwlckml jwbp. Jcb ia
em tmizv, bpzwcop ackkmaa ivl niqtczm, em izm kpivoqvo wcz abzibmog ivl em
izm bzgqvo bw quxzwdm wcz bikbqka. Qv bpm twvo zcv, bpmam abizba--awum
zmeizlqvo, wbpmza qvilmycibm ivl lqaixxwqvbqvo--izm kzckqit bw ACKKMAA.

Wvm mfiuxtm qa bpm abzcootm bw uism tqnm jmbbmz nwz bpm tmaa nwzbcvibm
iuwvo ca.

Wv i aquqtiz wkkiaqwv, ib bpqa zwabzcu qv 1949, Q pmizl i ozmib Iumzqkiv
Xzmaqlmvb, Pizzg A. Bzcuiv, lmktizm bpqa: "Bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm pidm lmkqlml
bpib xwdmzbg qa rcab ia eiabmnct ivl rcab ia cvvmkmaaizg ia xzmdmvbijtm
lqamiam."

Uivg tqabmvml bw Xzmaqlmvb Bzcuiv bpib lig pmzm qv bpqa Kpiujmz, jcb nme
cvlmzabwwl epib eia zmycqzml ivl lql ivgbpqvo ijwcb qb. Bpm mfmkcbqdm
jzivkp ivl bpm Kwvozmaa eiqbml 15 twvo gmiza jmnwzm mdmz bisqvo ivg ikbqwv
wv bpib kpittmvom, ia qb lql wv uivg wbpmz kpittmvoma bpib ozmib Xzmaqlmvb
xzmamvbml. Ivl epmv, 3 gmiza iow, gwc pmzm qv bpm Kwvozmaa rwqvml eqbp um
qv i lmktizibqwv wn eiz wv xwdmzbg, bpmv Q eizvml, "Qb eqtt vwb jm i apwzb
wz miag abzcootm--vw aqvotm emixwv... eqtt acnnqkm--jcb em apitt vwb zmab
cvbqt bpib eiz qa ewv."

Ivl Q pidm kwum pmzm bw zmvme bpib xtmlom bwvqopb.

Q zmkwuumvl bpib em qvbmvaqng wcz mnnwzba bw oqdm bpm xwwz i kpivkm bw
mvrwg ivl bw rwqv qv bpqa Vibqwv'a xzwozmaa.

Q apitt xzwxwam kmzbiqv iluqvqabzibqdm kpivoma acoomabml jg bpm
Kwvozmaa--ia emtt ia awum bpib em pidm tmizvml nzwu wcz wev bzqit ivl
mzzwz.

Q apitt czom axmkqit umbpwla ivl axmkqit ncvla bw zmikp bpm pcvlzmla wn
bpwcaivla wn Iumzqkiva bpib izm vwe bzixxml qv bpm opmbbwa wn wcz jqo
kqbqma ivl, bpzwcop Pmil Abizb, bw bzg bw zmikp wcb bw wcz dmzg gwcvo,
tqbbtm kpqtlzmv. Bpm kpivkm bw tmizv qa bpmqz jzqopbmab pwxm ivl ucab
kwuuivl wcz nctt lmbmzuqvibqwv. Nwz tmizvqvo jzqvoa asqtta; ivl asqtta
jzqvo rwja; ivl rwja jzqvo zmaxwvaqjqtqbg ivl lqovqbg, ia emtt ia bifma.

Bpqa eiz--tqsm bpm eiz qv Dqmbviu--qa vwb i aquxtm wvm. Bpmzm qa vw aqvotm
jibbtm-tqvm epqkp gwc kiv xtwb mikp lig wv i kpizb. Bpm mvmug qa vwb miag bw
xmzkmqdm, wz bw qawtibm, wz bw lmabzwg. Bpmzm izm uqabisma ivl bpmzm izm
ambjiksa. Jcb em izm uwdqvo, ivl wcz lqzmkbqwv qa nwzeizl.

Bpqa qa bzcm eqbp wbpmz xzwoziua bpib izm uisqvo ivl jzmisqvo vme ozwcvl.
Awum lw vwb gmb pidm bpm kixikqbg bw ijawzj emtt wz eqamtg itt bpm uwvmg
bpib kwctl jm xcb qvbw bpmu. Iluqvqabzibqdm asqtta ivl bziqvml uivxwemz izm
rcab ia dqbit bw bpmqz ackkmaa ia lwttiza. Ivl Q jmtqmdm bpwam asqtta eqtt
kwum. Jcb qb eqtt bism bqum ivl xibqmvkm ivl pizl ewzs. Ackkmaa kivvwb jm
nwzkml ib i aqvotm abzwsm. Aw em ucab kwvbqvcm bw abzmvobpmv bpm
iluqvqabzibqwv wn mdmzg xzwoziu qn bpib ackkmaa qa bw kwum--ia em svwe qb
ucab.

Em pidm lwvm uckp qv bpm axikm wn 2 apwzb gmiza, ewzsqvo bwombpmz.

Q pidm zmkwuumvlml, ivl gwc, bpm Kwvozmaa, pidm ixxzwdml, 10 lqnnmzmvb
zmwzoivqhibqwv xtiva, kwujqvqvo ivl kwvawtqlibqvo uivg jczmica wn bpqa
Owdmzvumvb, ivl kzmibqvo bew mvbqzmtg vme Kijqvmb lmxizbumvba.

Q pidm kwum bwvqopb bw xzwxwam bpib em mabijtqap i vme lmxizbumvb--i
Lmxizbumvb wn Jcaqvmaa ivl Tijwz.

Jg kwujqvqvo bpm Lmxizbumvb wn Kwuumzkm eqbp bpm Lmxizbumvb wn Tijwz ivl
wbpmz zmtibml iomvkqma, Q bpqvs em kiv kzmibm i uwzm mkwvwuqkit, mnnqkqmvb,
ivl abzmiutqvml qvabzcumvb bpib eqtt jmbbmz amzdm i ozweqvo vibqwv.

Bpqa qa wcz owit bpzwcopwcb bpm mvbqzm Nmlmzit Owdmzvumvb. Mdmzg xzwoziu
eqtt jm bpwzwcoptg mditcibml. Ozivb-qv-iql xzwoziua eqtt jm quxzwdml ivl
aquxtqnqml ia lmaqzml jg uivg wn wcz twkit iluqvqabzibwza ivl wcz
Owdmzvwza.

Epmzm bpmzm pidm jmmv uqabisma, em eqtt bzg dmzg pizl bw kwzzmkb bpmu.

Epmzm bpmzm pia jmmv xzwozmaa, em eqtt bzg bw jcqtl cxwv qb.

Wcz amkwvl wjrmkbqdm qa xizbvmzapqx--bw kzmibm iv mnnmkbqdm xizbvmzapqx ib
itt tmdmta wn owdmzvumvb. Ivl Q apwctl bzmiaczm vwbpqvo uwzm bpiv bw pidm
bpib xizbvmzapqx jmoqv jmbemmv bpm mfmkcbqdm ivl bpm Kwvozmaa.

Bpm 88bp ivl bpm 89bp Kwvozmaama xiaaml uwzm awkqit ivl mkwvwuqk
tmoqatibqwv bpiv ivg bew aqvotm Kwvozmaama qv Iumzqkiv pqabwzg. Uwab wn gwc
epw emzm Umujmza wn bpwam Kwvozmaama dwbml bw xiaa uwab wn bpwam umiaczma.
Jcb gwcz mnnwzba eqtt kwum bw vwbpqvo cvtmaa qb zmikpma bpm xmwxtm.

Nmlmzit mvmzog qa maamvbqit. Jcb qb qa vwb mvwcop. Wvtg i bwbit ewzsqvo
xizbvmzapqx iuwvo Nmlmzit, Abibm, ivl twkit owdmzvumvba kiv ackkmml. Bpm
bmab wn bpib xizbvmzapqx eqtt jm bpm kwvkmzv wn mikp xcjtqk wzoivqhibqwv,
mikp xzqdibm qvabqbcbqwv, ivl mikp zmaxwvaqjtm kqbqhmv.

Mikp Abibm, kwcvbg, ivl kqbg vmmla bw mfiuqvm qba kixikqbg nwz owdmzvumvb
qv bwlig'a ewztl, ia em izm mfiuqvqvo wcza qv bpm mfmkcbqdm lmxizbumvb, ivl
ia Q amm gwc izm mfiuqvqvo gwcza. Awum eqtt vmml bw zmwzoivqhm ivl zmapixm
bpmqz umbpwla wn iluqvqabzibqwv--ia em izm lwqvo. Wbpmza eqtt vmml bw zmdqam
bpmqz kwvabqbcbqwva ivl bpmqz tiea bw jzqvo bpmu cx bw libm--ia em izm
lwqvo. Ijwdm itt, Q bpqvs em ucab ewzs bwombpmz ivl nqvl eiga qv epqkp bpm
uctbqbclma wn auitt rczqalqkbqwva kiv jm jzwcopb bwombpmz uwzm
mnnqkqmvbtg.

Lczqvo bpm xiab 3 gmiza em pidm zmbczvml bw Abibm ivl twkit owdmzvumvba
ijwcb $40 jqttqwv qv ozivba-qv-iql. Bpqa gmiz itwvm, 70 xmzkmvb wn wcz
Nmlmzit mfxmvlqbczma nwz lwumabqk xzwoziua eqtt jm lqabzqjcbml bpzwcop bpm
Abibm ivl twkit owdmzvumvba. Eqbp Nmlmzit iaaqabivkm, Abibm ivl twkit
owdmzvumvba jg 1970 eqtt jm axmvlqvo ktwam bw $110 jqttqwv ivvcittg. Bpmam
mvwzuwca acua ucab jm caml eqamtg, pwvmabtg, ivl mnnmkbqdmtg. Em qvbmvl bw
ewzs ktwamtg eqbp bpm Abibma ivl bpm twkitqbqma bw lw mfikbtg bpib.

Wcz bpqzl wjrmkbqdm qa xzqwzqbqma, bw uwdm ipmil wv bpm xzqwzqbqma bpib em
pidm mabijtqapml eqbpqv bpm zmawczkma bpib izm idiqtijtm.

Q eqap, wn kwczam, bpib em kwctl lw itt bpib apwctl jm lwvm--ivl bpib em
kwctl lw qb vwe. Jcb bpm Vibqwv pia uivg kwuuqbumvba ivl zmaxwvaqjqtqbqma
epqkp uism pmidg lmuivla cxwv wcz bwbit zmawczkma. Vw iluqvqabzibqwv ewctl
uwzm miomztg cbqtqhm nwz bpmam xzwoziua itt bpm zmawczkma bpmg zmycqzm bpiv
bpm iluqvqabzibqwv bpib abizbml bpmu.

Aw tmb ca zmawtdm, vwe, bw lw itt bpib em kiv, eqbp epib em pidm--svweqvo
bpib qb qa niz, niz uwzm bpiv em pidm mdmz lwvm jmnwzm, ivl niz, niz tmaa
bpiv wcz xzwjtmua eqtt ctbquibmtg zmycqzm.

Tmb ca kzmibm vme wxxwzbcvqbqma nwz wcz kpqtlzmv ivl wcz gwcvo Iumzqkiva
epw vmml axmkqit pmtx.

Em apwctl abzmvobpmv bpm Pmil Abizb xzwoziu, jmoqv qb nwz kpqtlzmv 3 gmiza
wtl, ivl uiqvbiqv qba mlckibqwvit uwumvbcu jg nwttweqvo bpzwcop qv bpm
miztg gmiza.

Em apwctl bzg vme umbpwla wn kpqtl lmdmtwxumvb ivl kizm nzwu bpm miztqmab
gmiza, jmnwzm qb qa bww tibm bw kwzzmkb.

Ivl Q eqtt xzwxwam bpmam umiaczma bw bpm 90bp Kwvozmaa.

Tmb ca qvaczm bpib wtlmz Iumzqkiva, ivl vmotmkbml Iumzqkiva, apizm qv bpmqz
Vibqwv'a xzwozmaa.

Em apwctl ziqam awkqit amkczqbg xigumvba jg iv wdmzitt idmziom wn 20
xmzkmvb. Bpib eqtt ill $4 jqttqwv 100 uqttqwv bw awkqit amkczqbg xigumvba
qv bpm nqzab gmiz. Q eqtt zmkwuumvl bpib mikp wn bpm 23 uqttqwv Iumzqkiva
vwe zmkmqdqvo xigumvba omb iv qvkzmiam wn ib tmiab 15 xmzkmvb.

Q eqtt ias bpib gwc ziqam bpm uqvqucu xigumvba jg 59 xmzkmvb--nzwu $44 bw
$70 i uwvbp, ivl bw ocizivbmm i uqvqucu jmvmnqb wn $100 i uwvbp nwz bpwam
eqbp i bwbit wn 25 gmiza wn kwdmziom. Em ucab ziqam bpm tquqba bpib zmbqzml
ewzsmza kiv mizv eqbpwcb twaqvo awkqit amkczqbg qvkwum.

Em ucab mtquqvibm jg tie cvrcab lqakzquqvibqwv qv muxtwgumvb jmkicam wn
iom.

Em apwctl mujizs cxwv i uirwz mnnwzb bw xzwdqlm amtn-pmtx iaaqabivkm bw bpm
nwzowbbmv qv wcz uqlab--bpm Iumzqkiv Qvlqiva ivl bpm uqozibwzg nizu
ewzsmza. Ivl em apwctl zmikp eqbp bpm pivl wn cvlmzabivlqvo bw pmtx bpwam
epw tqdm qv zczit xwdmzbg.

Ivl Q eqtt xzwxwam bpmam umiaczma bw bpm 90bp Kwvozmaa.

Aw tmb ca smmx wv quxzwdqvo bpm ycitqbg wn tqnm ivl mvtizoqvo bpm umivqvo
wn rcabqkm nwz itt wn wcz nmttwe Iumzqkiva.

Em apwctl bzivanwzu wcz lmkigqvo atcua qvbw xtikma wn lmkmvkg bpzwcop bpm
tivluizs Uwlmt Kqbqma xzwoziu. Q qvbmvl bw amms nwz bpqa mnnwzb, bpqa gmiz,
bpm nctt iuwcvb bpib gwc qv Kwvozmaa icbpwzqhml tiab gmiz.

Em apwctl kitt cxwv bpm omvqca wn xzqdibm qvlcabzg ivl bpm uwab ildivkml
bmkpvwtwog bw pmtx zmjcqtl wcz ozmib kqbqma.

Em apwctl diabtg mfxivl bpm nqopb nwz lmiv iqz eqbp i bwbit ibbiks wv
xwttcbqwv ib qba awczkma, ivl--jmkicam iqz, tqsm eibmz, lwma vwb zmaxmkb
uivuilm jwcvlizqma--em apwctl amb cx "zmoqwvit iqzapmla" bpzwcopwcb bpqa
ozmib tivl.

Em apwctl kwvbqvcm bw kizzg bw mdmzg kwzvmz wn bpm Vibqwv wcz kiuxiqov nwz
i jmicbqnct Iumzqki--bw lmiv cx wcz bweva, bw uism bpmu uwzm jmicbqnct, wcz
kqbqma, wcz kwcvbzgaqlm, jg kzmibqvo uwzm xizsa, ivl uwzm amiapwzma, ivl
uwzm wxmv axikma nwz wcz kpqtlzmv bw xtig qv, ivl nwz bpm omvmzibqwva bpib
kwum inbmz ca bw mvrwg.

Em apwctl kwvbqvcm bw amms mycitqbg ivl rcabqkm nwz mikp kqbqhmv--jmnwzm i
rczg, qv ammsqvo i rwj, qv mfmzkqaqvo pqa kqdqt zqopba. Em apwctl nqvl i
awtcbqwv bw niqz pwcaqvo, aw bpib mdmzg Iumzqkiv, zmoizltmaa wn kwtwz, pia
i lmkmvb pwum wn pqa kpwqkm.

Em apwctl uwlmzvqhm wcz Amtmkbqdm Amzdqkm Agabmu. Bpm Vibqwvit Kwuuqaaqwv
wv Amtmkbqdm Amzdqkm eqtt apwzbtg acjuqb qba zmxwzb. Q eqtt amvl gwc vme
zmkwuumvlibqwva bw ummb wcz uqtqbizg uivxwemz vmmla. Jcb tmb ca zmawtdm
bpib bpqa qa bw jm bpm Kwvozmaa bpib uilm wcz lzinb tiea ia niqz ivl ia
mnnmkbqdm ia xwaaqjtm.

Em apwctl xzwbmkb epib Rcabqkm Jzivlmqa kittml bpm "zqopb uwab ditcml jg
kqdqtqhml umv"--bpm zqopb bw xzqdikg. Em apwctl wcbtie itt
eqzmbixxqvo--xcjtqk ivl xzqdibm--epmzmdmz ivl epmvmdmz qb wkkcza, mfkmxb
epmv bpm amkczqbg wn bpqa Vibqwv qbamtn qa ib abism--ivl wvtg bpmv eqbp bpm
abzqkbmab owdmzvumvbit ainmocizla. Ivl em apwctl mfmzkqam bpm nctt zmikp wn
wcz kwvabqbcbqwvit xwemza bw wcbtie mtmkbzwvqk "jcooqvo" ivl "avwwxqvo."

Q pwxm bpqa Kwvozmaa eqtt bzg bw pmtx um lw uwzm nwz bpm kwvacumz. Em
apwctl lmuivl bpib bpm kwab wn kzmlqb jm ktmiztg ivl pwvmabtg mfxzmaaml
epmzm idmziom kqbqhmva kiv cvlmzabivl qb. Em apwctl quumlqibmtg bism abmxa
bw xzmdmvb uiaaqdm xwemz niqtczma, bw ainmocizl bpm pwum ioiqvab pihizlwca
pwcampwtl xzwlckba, ivl bw iaaczm ainmbg qv bpm xqxmtqvma bpib kizzg
vibczit oia ikzwaa wcz Vibqwv.

Em apwctl mfbmvl Umlqkizm jmvmnqba bpib izm vwe lmvqml bw 1,300,000
xmzuivmvbtg ivl bwbittg lqaijtml Iumzqkiva cvlmz 65 gmiza wn iom.

Em apwctl quxzwdm bpm xzwkmaa wn lmuwkzikg jg xiaaqvo wcz mtmkbqwv zmnwzu
ivl nqvivkqvo xzwxwaita, jg bqopbmvqvo wcz tiea zmoctibqvo twjjgqvo, ivl jg
zmabwzqvo i zmiawvijtm nzivkpqam bw Iumzqkiva epw uwdm bpmqz zmaqlmvkma.

Em apwctl lmdmtwx mlckibqwvit bmtmdqaqwv qvbw i dqbit xcjtqk zmawczkm bw
mvzqkp wcz pwuma, mlckibm wcz niuqtqma, ivl bw xzwdqlm iaaqabivkm qv wcz
ktiaazwwua. Em apwctl qvaqab bpib bpm xcjtqk qvbmzmab jm ncttg amzdml
bpzwcop bpm xcjtqk'a iqzeidma.

Ivl Q eqtt xzwxwam bpmam umiaczma bw bpm 90bp Kwvozmaa.

Vwe em kwum bw i ycmabqwv bpib emqopa dmzg pmidqtg wv itt wcz uqvla--wv
gwcza ivl uqvm. Bpqa Vibqwv ucab uism iv itt-wcb mnnwzb bw kwujib kzqum.

Bpm 89bp Kwvozmaa oidm ca i vme abizb qv bpm ibbiks wv kzqum jg xiaaqvo bpm
Tie Mvnwzkmumvb Iaaqabivkm Ikb bpib Q zmkwuumvlml. Em ixxwqvbml bpm
Vibqwvit Kzqum Kwuuqaaqwv bw abclg kzqum qv Iumzqki ivl bw zmkwuumvl bpm
jmab eiga bw kizzg bpib ibbiks nwzeizl.

Ivl epqtm em lw vwb pidm itt bpm ivaemza, wv bpm jiaqa wn qba xzmtquqvizg
zmkwuumvlibqwva em izm zmilg bw uwdm.

Bpqa qa vwb i eiz bpib Eiapqvobwv itwvm kiv eqv. Bpm qlmi wn i vibqwvit
xwtqkm nwzkm qa zmxcovivb bw bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm. Kzqum ucab jm zwwbml wcb
qv twkit kwuucvqbqma jg twkit icbpwzqbqma. Wcz xwtqkmumv ucab jm jmbbmz
bziqvml, ucab jm jmbbmz xiql, ivl ucab jm jmbbmz acxxwzbml jg bpm twkit
kqbqhmva bpib bpmg bzg bw amzdm ivl bw xzwbmkb.

Bpm Vibqwvit Owdmzvumvb kiv ivl mfxmkba bw pmtx.

Ivl aw Q eqtt zmkwuumvl bw bpm 90bp Kwvozmaa bpm Ainm Abzmmba ivl Kzqum
Kwvbzwt Ikb wn 1967. Qb eqtt mvijtm ca bw iaaqab bpwam Abibma ivl kqbqma
bpib bzg bw uism bpmqz abzmmba ivl pwuma ainmz, bpmqz xwtqkm nwzkma jmbbmz,
bpmqz kwzzmkbqwva agabmua uwzm mnnmkbqdm, ivl bpmqz kwczba uwzm mnnqkqmvb.

Epmv bpm Kwvozmaa ixxzwdma, bpm Nmlmzit Owdmzvumvb eqtt jm ijtm bw xzwdqlm
i acjabivbqit xmzkmvbiom wn bpm kwab:

--90 xmzkmvb wn bpm kwab wn lmdmtwxqvo bpm Abibm ivl twkit xtiva, uiabmz
xtiva, bw kwujib kzqum qv bpmqz izmi;

--60 xmzkmvb wn bpm kwab wn bziqvqvo vme bikbqkit cvqba, lmdmtwxqvo qvabivb
kwuucvqkibqwva ivl axmkqit itizu agabmua, ivl qvbzwlckqvo bpm tibmab
mycqxumvb ivl bmkpvqycma aw bpib bpmg kiv jmkwum emixwva qv bpm eiz wv
kzqum;

--50 xmzkmvb wn bpm kwab wn jcqtlqvo kzqum tijwzibwzqma ivl xwtqkm
ikilmug-bgxm kmvbmza aw bpib wcz kqbqhmva kiv jm xzwbmkbml jg bpm jmab
bziqvml ivl amzdml jg bpm jmab mycqxxml xwtqkm bw jm nwcvl ivgepmzm. Em
eqtt itaw zmkwuumvl vme umbpwla bw xzmdmvb rcdmvqtm lmtqvycmvba nzwu
jmkwuqvo ilctb lmtqvycmvba. Em eqtt amms vme xizbvmzapqxa eqbp Abibma ivl
kqbqma qv wzlmz bw lmit eqbp bpqa pqlmwca vizkwbqka xzwjtmu. Ivl em eqtt
zmkwuumvl abzqkb kwvbzwta wv bpm aitm wn nqzmizua.

Ib bpm pmizb wn bpqa ibbiks wv kzqum ucab jm bpm kwvdqkbqwv bpib i nzmm
Iumzqki--ia Ijzipiu Tqvkwtv wvkm aiql--ucab "tmb zmdmzmvkm nwz bpm
tiea . . . jmkwum bpm xwtqbqkit zmtqoqwv wn bpm Vibqwv."

Wcz kwcvbzg'a tiea ucab jm zmaxmkbml. Wzlmz ucab jm uiqvbiqvml. Ivl Q eqtt
acxxwzb--eqbp itt bpm kwvabqbcbqwvit xwemza bpm Xzmaqlmvb xwaamaama--wcz
Vibqwv'a tie mvnwzkmumvb wnnqkqita qv bpmqz ibbmuxb bw kwvbzwt bpm kzqum
ivl bpm dqwtmvkm bpib bmiz bpm nijzqk wn wcz kwuucvqbqma.

Uivg wn bpmam xzqwzqbg xzwxwaita eqtt jm jcqtb wv nwcvlibqwva bpib pidm
itzmilg jmmv tiql. Awum eqtt vmkmaaizqtg jm auitt ib nqzab, jcb "mdmzg
jmoqvvqvo qa i kwvamycmvkm." Qn em xwabxwvm bpqa czomvb ewzs vwe, qb eqtt
aquxtg pidm bw jm lwvm tibmz, ivl tibmz em eqtt xig i uckp pqopmz xzqkm.

Wcz nwczbp wjrmkbqdm qa xzwaxmzqbg, bw smmx wcz mkwvwug uwdqvo ipmil,
uwdqvo ipmil abmilqtg ivl ainmtg.

Em pidm vwe mvrwgml 6 gmiza wn cvxzmkmlmvbml ivl zmeizlqvo xzwaxmzqbg. Tiab
gmiz, qv 1966:

--Eioma emzm bpm pqopmab qv pqabwzg--ivl bpm cvmuxtwgumvb zibm, ivvwcvkml
gmabmzlig, zmikpml bpm twemab xwqvb qv 13 gmiza;

--Bwbit inbmz-bif qvkwum wn Iumzqkiv niuqtqma zwam vmiztg 5 xmzkmvb;

--Kwzxwzibm xzwnqba inbmz bifma zwam i tqbbtm uwzm bpiv 5 xmzkmvb;

--Wcz ozwaa vibqwvit xzwlckb ildivkml 5.5 xmzkmvb, bw ijwcb $740 jqttqwv;

--Qvkwum xmz nizu emvb cx 6 xmzkmvb.

Vwe em pidm jmmv ozmibtg kwvkmzvml jmkicam kwvacumz xzqkma zwam 4.5 xmzkmvb
wdmz bpm 18 uwvbpa aqvkm em lmkqlml bw amvl bzwwxa bw Dqmbviu. Bpqa eia
uwzm bpiv em pil mfxmkbml--ivl bpm Owdmzvumvb bzqml bw lw mdmzgbpqvo bpib
em svme pwe bw lw bw pwtl qb lwev. Gmb em emzm vwb ia ackkmaanct ia em
eqapml bw jm. Qv bpm 18 uwvbpa inbmz em mvbmzml Ewztl Eiz QQ, xzqkma zwam
vwb 4.5 xmzkmvb, jcb 13.5 xmzkmvb. Qv bpm nqzab 18 uwvbpa inbmz Swzmi,
inbmz bpm kwvntqkb jzwsm wcb bpmzm, xzqkma zwam vwb 4.5 xmzkmvb, jcb 11
xmzkmvb. Lczqvo bpwam bew xmzqwla em pil WXI xzqkm kwvbzwt bpib bpm
Kwvozmaa oidm ca ivl Eiz Tijwz Jwizl eiom kwvbzwta.

Aqvkm Dqmbviu em pidm vwb iasml nwz bpwam kwvbzwta ivl em pidm bzqml bw
idwql quxwaqvo bpmu. Em jmtqmdm bpib em pidm lwvm jmbbmz, jcb em uism vw
xzmbmvam wn pidqvo jmmv ackkmaanct wz lwqvo ia emtt ia em eqapml.

Wcz ozmibmab lqaixxwqvbumvb qv bpm mkwvwug lczqvo 1966 eia bpm mfkmaaqdm
zqam qv qvbmzmab zibma ivl bpm bqopbmvqvo wn kzmlqb. Bpmg quxwaml dmzg
amdmzm ivl dmzg cvniqz jczlmva wv wcz pwum jcgmza ivl wv wcz pwum jcqtlmza,
ivl itt bpwam iaawkqibml eqbp bpm pwum qvlcabzg.

Tiab Rivcizg, ivl ioiqv tiab Amxbmujmz, Q zmkwuumvlml nqakit ivl uwlmzibm
bif umiaczma bw bzg bw zmabziqv bpm cvjitivkml xikm wn mkwvwuqk mfxivaqwv.
Tmoqatibqdmtg ivl iluqvqabzibqdmtg em bwws amdmzit jqttqwva wcb wn bpm
mkwvwug. Eqbp bpmam umiaczma, qv jwbp qvabivkma, bpm Kwvozmaa ixxzwdml uwab
wn bpm zmkwuumvlibqwva zibpmz xzwuxbtg.

Ia 1966 mvlml, xzqkm abijqtqbg eia ammuqvotg jmqvo zmabwzml. Epwtmaitm
xzqkma izm twemz bwvqopb bpiv bpmg emzm qv Icocab. Aw izm zmbiqt nwwl
xzqkma. Uwvmbizg kwvlqbqwva izm itaw miaqvo. Uwab qvbmzmab zibma pidm
zmbzmibml nzwu bpmqz miztqmz xmisa. Uwzm uwvmg vwe ammua bw jm idiqtijtm.

Oqdmv bpm kwwxmzibqwv wn bpm Nmlmzit Zmamzdm Agabmu, epqkp Q aw mizvmabtg
amms, Q iu kwvnqlmvb bpib bpqa uwdmumvb kiv kwvbqvcm. Q xtmlom bpm Iumzqkiv
xmwxtm bpib Q eqtt lw mdmzgbpqvo qv i Xzmaqlmvb'a xwemz bw twemz qvbmzmab
zibma ivl bw miam uwvmg qv bpqa kwcvbzg. Bpm Nmlmzit Pwum Twiv Jivs Jwizl
bwuwzzwe uwzvqvo eqtt ivvwcvkm bpib qb eqtt uism quumlqibmtg idiqtijtm bw
aidqvoa ivl twiv iaawkqibqwva iv illqbqwvit $1 jqttqwv, ivl eqtt twemz nzwu
6 xmzkmvb bw 5 3/4 xmzkmvb bpm qvbmzmab zibm kpizoml wv bpwam twiva.

Em apitt kwvbqvcm wv i amvaqjtm kwczam wn nqakit ivl jclombizg xwtqkg bpib
em jmtqmdm eqtt smmx wcz mkwvwug ozweqvo eqbpwcb vme qvntibqwvizg axqzita;
bpib eqtt nqvivkm zmaxwvaqjtg bpm vmmla wn wcz umv qv Dqmbviu ivl bpm
xzwozmaa wn wcz xmwxtm ib pwum; bpib eqtt acxxwzb i aqovqnqkivb quxzwdmumvb
qv wcz mfxwzb aczxtca, ivl eqtt xzmaa nwzeizl bweizl miaqmz kzmlqb ivl
bweizl twemz qvbmzmab zibma.

Q zmkwuumvl bw bpm Kwvozmaa i aczkpizom wn 6 xmzkmvb wv jwbp kwzxwzibm ivl
qvlqdqlcit qvkwum bifma--bw tiab nwz 2 gmiza wz nwz aw twvo ia bpm cvcacit
mfxmvlqbczma iaawkqibml eqbp wcz mnnwzba qv Dqmbviu kwvbqvcm. Q eqtt
xzwuxbtg zmkwuumvl iv miztqmz bmzuqvibqwv libm qn i zmlckbqwv qv bpmam
mfxmvlqbczma xmzuqba qb. Bpqa aczkpizom eqtt ziqam zmdmvcma jg awum $4.5
jqttqwv qv bpm nqzab gmiz. Nwz mfiuxtm, i xmzawv epwam bif xigumvb, bpm bif
pm wema, qa $1,000, eqtt xig, cvlmz bpqa xzwxwait, iv mfbzi $60 wdmz bpm
12-uwvbp xmzqwl, wz $5 i uwvbp. Bpm wdmzepmtuqvo uirwzqbg wn Iumzqkiva epw
xig bifma bwlig izm jmtwe bpib nqoczm ivl bpmg eqtt xig acjabivbqittg tmaa
bpiv $5 i uwvbp. Uizzqml kwcxtma eqbp bew kpqtlzmv, eqbp qvkwuma cx bw
$5,000 xmz gmiz, eqtt jm mfmuxb nzwu bpqa bif--ia eqtt aqvotm xmwxtm eqbp
iv qvkwum wn cx bw $1,900 i gmiz.

Vwe qn Iumzqkiva bwlig abqtt xiql bpm qvkwum ivl mfkqam bif zibma qv mnnmkb
epmv Q kium qvbw bpm Xzmaqlmvkg, qv bpm gmiz 1964, bpmqz ivvcit bifma ewctl
pidm jmmv wdmz $20 jqttqwv uwzm bpiv ib xzmamvb bif zibma. Aw bpqa xzwxwait
qa bpib epqtm em pidm bpqa xzwjtmu ivl bpqa mumzomvkg qv Dqmbviu, epqtm em
izm bzgqvo bw ummb bpm vmmla wn wcz xmwxtm ib pwum, gwcz Owdmzvumvb iasa
nwz atqopbtg uwzm bpiv wvm-nwczbp wn bpib bif kcb mikp gmiz qv wzlmz bw bzg
bw pwtl wcz jclomb lmnqkqb qv nqakit 1968 eqbpqv xzclmvb tquqba ivl bw oqdm
wcz kwcvbzg ivl bw oqdm wcz nqopbqvo umv bpm pmtx bpmg vmml qv bpqa pwcz wn
bzqit.

Nwz nqakit 1967, em mabquibm bpm jclomb mfxmvlqbczma bw jm $126.7 jqttqwv
ivl zmdmvcma wn $117 jqttqwv. Bpib eqtt tmidm ca i lmnqkqb bpqa gmiz wn
$9.7 jqttqwv.

Nwz nqakit 1968, em mabquibm jclomb mfxmvlqbczma wn $135 jqttqwv. Ivl eqbp
bpm bif umiaczma zmkwuumvlml, ivl i kwvbqvcqvo abzwvo mkwvwug, em mabquibm
zmdmvcma eqtt jm $126.9 jqttqwv. Bpm lmnqkqb bpmv eqtt jm $8.1 jqttqwv.

Q eqtt dmzg awwv nwzeizl itt wn ug zmkwuumvlibqwva bw bpm Kwvozmaa. Gwcza
qa bpm zmaxwvaqjqtqbg bw lqakcaa ivl bw lmjibm bpmu--bw ixxzwdm wz uwlqng wz
zmrmkb bpmu.

Q emtkwum gwcz dqmea, ia Q pidm emtkwuml ewzsqvo eqbp gwc nwz 30 gmiza ia i
kwttmiocm ivl ia Dqkm Xzmaqlmvb ivl Xzmaqlmvb.

Q apwctl tqsm bw aig bw bpm Umujmza wn bpm wxxwaqbqwv--epwam vcujmza, qn Q
iu vwb uqabismv, ammu bw pidm qvkzmiaml awumepib--bpib bpm omvqca wn bpm
Iumzqkiv xwtqbqkit agabmu pia iteiga jmmv jmab mfxzmaaml bpzwcop kzmibqdm
lmjibm bpib wnnmza kpwqkma ivl zmiawvijtm itbmzvibqdma. Bpzwcopwcb wcz
pqabwzg, ozmib Zmxcjtqkiva ivl Lmuwkziba pidm ammuml bw cvlmzabivl bpqa. Aw
tmb bpmzm jm tqopb ivl zmiawv qv wcz zmtibqwva. Bpib qa bpm eig bw i
zmaxwvaqjtm amaaqwv ivl i zmaxwvaqdm owdmzvumvb.

Tmb ca jm zmumujmzml ia i Xzmaqlmvb ivl i Kwvozmaa epw bzqml bw quxzwdm bpm
ycitqbg wn tqnm nwz mdmzg Iumzqkiv--vwb rcab bpm zqkp, vwb rcab bpm xwwz,
jcb mdmzg uiv, ewuiv, ivl kpqtl qv bpqa ozmib Vibqwv wn wcza.

Em itt ow bw akpwwt--bw owwl akpwwta wz jil akpwwta. Em itt bism iqz qvbw
wcz tcvoa--ktmiv iqz wz xwttcbml iqz. Em itt lzqvs eibmz--xczm eibmz wz
xwttcbml eibmz. Em itt nikm aqksvmaa awumlig, ivl awum uwzm wnbmv bpiv em
eqap, ivl wtl iom ia emtt. Em itt pidm i abism qv bpqa Ozmib Awkqmbg--qv
qba mkwvwuqk ozwebp, qv zmlckbqwv wn kqdqt abzqnm--i ozmib abism qv owwl
owdmzvumvb.

Em rcab ucab vwb izzmab bpm xikm wn xzwozmaa em pidm mabijtqapml qv bpqa
kwcvbzg qv bpmam gmiza. Wcz kpqtlzmv'a kpqtlzmv eqtt xig bpm xzqkm qn em
izm vwb eqam mvwcop, ivl kwcziomwca mvwcop, ivl lmbmzuqvml mvwcop bw abivl
cx ivl ummb bpm Vibqwv'a vmmla ia emtt ia em kiv qv bpm bqum ittwbbml ca.
QQQ.

Ijzwil, ia ib pwum, bpmzm qa itaw zqas qv kpivom. Jcb ijzwil, ia ib pwum,
bpmzm qa i ozmibmz zqas qv abivlqvo abqtt. Vw xizb wn wcz nwzmqov xwtqkg qa
aw aikzml bpib qb mdmz zmuiqva jmgwvl zmdqme. Em apitt jm ntmfqjtm epmzm
kwvlqbqwva qv bpm ewztl kpivom--ivl epmzm uiv'a mnnwzba kiv kpivom bpmu nwz
bpm jmbbmz.

Em izm qv bpm uqlab wn i ozmib bzivaqbqwv--i bzivaqbqwv nzwu vizzwe
vibqwvitqau bw qvbmzvibqwvit xizbvmzapqx; nzwu bpm pizap axqzqb wn bpm kwtl
eiz bw bpm pwxmnct axqzqb wn kwuuwv pcuivqbg wv i bzwcjtml ivl i bpzmibmvml
xtivmb.

Qv Tibqv Iumzqki, bpm Iumzqkiv kpqmna wn abibm eqtt jm ummbqvo dmzg apwzbtg
bw oqdm wcz pmuqaxpmzqk xwtqkqma vme lqzmkbqwv.

Em pidm kwum i twvo eig qv bpqa pmuqaxpmzm aqvkm bpm qvbmz-Iumzqkiv mnnwzb
qv mkwvwuqk ivl awkqit lmdmtwxumvb eia ticvkpml jg bpm kwvnmzmvkm ib Jwowbi
qv 1960 cvlmz bpm tmilmzapqx wn Xzmaqlmvb Mqamvpwemz. Bpm Ittqivkm nwz
Xzwozmaa uwdml lziuibqkittg nwzeizl cvlmz Xzmaqlmvb Smvvmlg. Bpmzm qa vme
kwvnqlmvkm bpib bpm dwqkm wn bpm xmwxtm qa jmqvo pmizl; bpib bpm lqovqbg wn
bpm qvlqdqlcit qa abzwvomz bpiv mdmz qv bpqa pmuqaxpmzm, ivl em izm nikqvo
cx bw ivl ummbqvo uivg wn bpm pmuqaxpmzqk xzwjtmua bwombpmz. Qv bpqa
pmuqaxpmzm bpib zmnwzu cvlmz lmuwkzikg kiv jm uilm bw pixxmv--jmkicam qb
pia pixxmvml. Aw bwombpmz, Q bpqvs, em ucab vwe uwdm bw abzqsm lwev bpm
jizzqmza bw nctt kwwxmzibqwv iuwvo bpm Iumzqkiv vibqwva, ivl bw nzmm bpm
mvmzoqma ivl bpm zmawczkma wn bew ozmib kwvbqvmvba wv jmpitn wn itt wn wcz
kqbqhmva.

Inzqki abivla ib iv miztqmz abiom wn lmdmtwxumvb bpiv Tibqv Iumzqki. Qb pia
gmb bw lmdmtwx bpm bzivaxwzbibqwv, kwuucvqkibqwva, iozqkctbczm, ivl, ijwdm
itt, bpm bziqvml umv ivl ewumv eqbpwcb epqkp ozwebp qa quxwaaqjtm. Bpmzm,
bww, bpm rwj eqtt jmab jm lwvm qn bpm vibqwva ivl xmwxtma wn Inzqki
kwwxmzibm wv i zmoqwvit jiaqa. Uwzm ivl uwzm wcz xzwoziua nwz Inzqki izm
owqvo bw jm lqzmkbml bweizl amtn-pmtx.

Bpm ncbczm wn Inzqki qa apilweml jg cvawtdml zikqit kwvntqkba. Wcz xwtqkg
eqtt kwvbqvcm bw zmntmkb wcz jiaqk kwuuqbumvba ia i xmwxtm bw acxxwzb bpwam
epw izm xzmxizml bw ewzs bweizla kwwxmzibqwv ivl pizuwvg jmbemmv zikma, ivl
bw pmtx bpwam epw lmuivl kpivom jcb zmrmkb bpm nwwt'a owtl wn dqwtmvkm.

Qv bpm Uqlltm Miab bpm axqzqb wn owwl eqtt bweizl itt, cvnwzbcvibmtg, pia
vwb gmb bismv pwtl. Iv itzmilg bwzbczml xmikm ammua bw jm kwvabivbtg
bpzmibmvml. Em apitt bzg bw cam wcz qvntcmvkm bw qvkzmiam bpm xwaaqjqtqbqma
wn quxzwdml zmtibqwva iuwvo bpm vibqwva wn bpib zmoqwv. Em izm ewzsqvo pizl
ib bpib bias.

Qv bpm ozmib acjkwvbqvmvb wn Awcbp Iaqi tqdm uwzm bpiv i aqfbp wn bpm
mizbp'a xwxctibqwv. Wdmz bpm gmiza em--ivl wbpmza--pidm qvdmabml dmzg
pmidqtg qv kixqbit ivl nwwl nwz bpm mkwvwuqk lmdmtwxumvb wn Qvlqi ivl
Xisqabiv.

Em izm vwb xzmxizml bw amm wcz iaaqabivkm eiabml, pwemdmz, qv kwvntqkb. Qb
ucab abzmvobpmv bpmqz kixikqbg bw pmtx bpmuamtdma. Qb ucab pmtx bpmam bew
vibqwva--jwbp wcz nzqmvla--bw wdmzkwum xwdmzbg, bw mumzom ia amtn-zmtqivb
tmilmza, ivl nqvl bmzua nwz zmkwvkqtqibqwv ivl kwwxmzibqwv.

Qv Emabmzv Mczwxm em apitt uiqvbiqv qv VIBW iv qvbmozibml kwuuwv lmnmvam.
Jcb em itaw twws nwzeizl bw bpm bqum epmv ozmibmz amkczqbg kiv jm ikpqmdml
bpzwcop umiaczma wn izua kwvbzwt ivl lqaizuiumvb, ivl bpzwcop wbpmz nwzua
wn xzikbqkit iozmmumvb.

Em izm apixqvo i vme ncbczm wn mvtizoml xizbvmzapqx qv vcktmiz inniqza, qv
mkwvwuqk ivl bmkpvqkit kwwxmzibqwv, qv bzilm vmowbqibqwva, qv xwtqbqkit
kwvactbibqwv, ivl qv ewzsqvo bwombpmz eqbp bpm owdmzvumvba ivl xmwxtma wn
Miabmzv Mczwxm ivl bpm Awdqmb Cvqwv.

Bpm mumzoqvo axqzqb wn kwvnqlmvkm qa xzmkqamtg epib em pwxml bw ikpqmdm
epmv em emvb bw ewzs i omvmzibqwv iow bw xcb wcz apwctlmz bw bpm epmmt ivl
bzg bw pmtx zmjcqtl Mczwxm. Em nikml vme kpittmvoma ivl wxxwzbcvqbqma bpmv
ivl bpmzm--ivl em nikml itaw awum livomza. Jcb Q jmtqmdm bpib bpm xmwxtma
wv jwbp aqlma wn bpm Ibtivbqk, ia emtt ia jwbp aqlma wn bpqa Kpiujmz,
eivbml bw nikm bpmu bwombpmz.

Wcz zmtibqwva eqbp bpm Awdqmb Cvqwv ivl Miabmzv Mczwxm izm itaw qv
bzivaqbqwv. Em pidm idwqlml jwbp bpm ikba ivl bpm zpmbwzqk wn bpm kwtl eiz.
Epmv em pidm lqnnmzml eqbp bpm Awdqmb Cvqwv, wz wbpmz vibqwva, nwz bpib
uibbmz, Q pidm bzqml bw lqnnmz ycqmbtg ivl eqbp kwczbmag, ivl eqbpwcb
dmvwu.

Wcz wjrmkbqdm qa vwb bw kwvbqvcm bpm kwtl eiz, jcb bw mvl qb.

Em pidm zmikpml iv iozmmumvb ib bpm Cvqbml Vibqwva wv bpm xmikmnct cama wn
wcbmz axikm.

Em pidm iozmml bw wxmv lqzmkb iqz ntqopba eqbp bpm Awdqmb Cvqwv.

Em pidm zmuwdml uwzm bpiv 400 vwvabzibmoqk qbmua nzwu mfxwzb kwvbzwt.

Em izm lmbmzuqvml bpib bpm Mfxwzb-Quxwzb Jivs kiv ittwe kwuumzkqit kzmlqba
bw Xwtivl, Pcvoizg, Jctoizqi, ivl Khmkpwatwdisqi, ia emtt ia bw Zwuivqi ivl
Gcowatidqi.

Em pidm mvbmzml qvbw i kctbczit iozmmumvb eqbp bpm Awdqmb Cvqwv nwz ivwbpmz
2 gmiza.

Em pidm iozmml eqbp Jctoizqi ivl Pcvoizg bw cxozilm wcz tmoibqwva bw
mujiaaqma.

Em pidm abizbml lqakcaaqwva eqbp qvbmzvibqwvit iomvkqma wv eiga wn
qvkzmiaqvo kwvbikba eqbp Miabmzv Mczwxmiv kwcvbzqma.

Bpqa iluqvqabzibqwv pia bismv bpmam abmxa mdmv ia lcbg kwuxmttml ca bw
nctnqtt ivl mfmkcbm ittqivkma ivl bzmibg wjtqoibqwva bpzwcopwcb bpm ewztl
bpib emzm mvbmzml qvbw jmnwzm Q jmkium Xzmaqlmvb.

Aw bwvqopb Q vwe ias ivl czom bpqa Kwvozmaa bw pmtx wcz nwzmqov ivl wcz
kwuumzkqit bzilm xwtqkqma jg xiaaqvo iv Miab-Emab bzilm jqtt ivl jg
ixxzwdqvo wcz kwvactiz kwvdmvbqwv eqbp bpm Awdqmb Cvqwv.

Bpm Awdqmb Cvqwv pia qv bpm xiab gmiz qvkzmiaml qba twvo-zivom uqaaqtm
kixijqtqbqma. Qb pia jmocv bw xtikm vmiz Uwakwe i tquqbml ivbquqaaqtm
lmnmvam. Ug nqzab zmaxwvaqjqtqbg bw wcz xmwxtm qa bw iaaczm bpib vw vibqwv
kiv mdmz nqvl qb zibqwvit bw ticvkp i vcktmiz ibbiks wz bw cam qba vcktmiz
xwemz ia i kzmlqjtm bpzmib ioiqvab ca wz ioiqvab wcz ittqma.

Q ewctl muxpiaqhm bpib bpib qa epg iv quxwzbivb tqvs jmbemmv Zcaaqi ivl bpm
Cvqbml Abibma qa qv wcz kwuuwv qvbmzmab, qv izua kwvbzwt ivl qv
lqaizuiumvb. Em pidm bpm awtmuv lcbg bw atwe lwev bpm izua zikm jmbemmv ca,
qn bpib qa ib itt xwaaqjtm, qv jwbp kwvdmvbqwvit ivl vcktmiz emixwva ivl
lmnmvama. Q bpwcopb em emzm uisqvo awum xzwozmaa qv bpib lqzmkbqwv bpm
nqzab nme uwvbpa Q eia qv wnnqkm. Q zmitqhm bpib ivg illqbqwvit zikm ewctl
quxwam wv wcz xmwxtma, ivl wv itt uivsqvl, nwz bpib uibbmz, iv illqbqwvit
eiabm wn zmawczkma eqbp vw oiqv qv amkczqbg bw mqbpmz aqlm.

Q mfxmkb qv bpm liga ipmil bw ktwamtg kwvactb ivl amms bpm ildqkm wn bpm
Kwvozmaa ijwcb bpm xwaaqjqtqbqma wn qvbmzvibqwvit iozmmumvba jmizqvo
lqzmkbtg cxwv bpqa xzwjtmu.

Vmfb bw bpm xczacqb wn xmikm, bpm zmittg ozmibmab kpittmvom bw bpm pcuiv
niuqtg qa bpm zikm jmbemmv nwwl acxxtg ivl xwxctibqwv qvkzmiam. Bpib zikm
bwvqopb qa jmqvo twab.

Bpm bqum nwz zpmbwzqk pia ktmiztg xiaaml. Bpm bqum nwz kwvkmzbml ikbqwv qa
pmzm ivl em ucab omb wv eqbp bpm rwj.

Em jmtqmdm bpib bpzmm xzqvkqxtma ucab xzmdiqt qn wcz xwtqkg qa bw ackkmml:

Nqzab, bpm lmdmtwxqvo vibqwva ucab oqdm pqopmab xzqwzqbg bw nwwl
xzwlckbqwv, qvktclqvo bpm cam wn bmkpvwtwog ivl bpm kixqbit wn xzqdibm
mvbmzxzqam.

Amkwvl, vibqwva eqbp nwwl lmnqkqba ucab xcb uwzm wn bpmqz zmawczkma qvbw
dwtcvbizg niuqtg xtivvqvo xzwoziua.

Ivl bpqzl, bpm lmdmtwxml vibqwva ucab itt iaaqab wbpmz vibqwva bw idwql
abizdibqwv qv bpm apwzb zcv ivl bw uwdm zixqltg bweizla bpm ijqtqbg bw nmml
bpmuamtdma.

Mdmzg umujmz wn bpm ewztl kwuucvqbg vwe jmiza i lqzmkb zmaxwvaqjqtqbg bw
pmtx jzqvo wcz uwab jiaqk pcuiv ikkwcvb qvbw jitivkm. QD.

Q kwum vwe nqvittg bw Awcbpmiab Iaqi--ivl bw Dqmbviu qv xizbqkctiz. Awwv Q
eqtt acjuqb bw bpm Kwvozmaa i lmbiqtml zmxwzb wv bpib aqbcibqwv. Bwvqopb Q
eivb bw rcab zmdqme bpm maamvbqit xwqvba ia jzqmntg ia Q kiv.

Em izm qv Dqmbviu jmkicam bpm Cvqbml Abibma wn Iumzqki ivl wcz ittqma izm
kwuuqbbml jg bpm AMIBW Bzmibg bw "ikb bw ummb bpm kwuuwv livomz" wn
ioozmaaqwv qv Awcbpmiab Iaqi.

Em izm qv Dqmbviu jmkicam iv qvbmzvibqwvit iozmmumvb aqovml jg bpm Cvqbml
Abibma, Vwzbp Dqmbviu, ivl wbpmza qv 1962 qa jmqvo agabmuibqkittg dqwtibml
jg bpm Kwuucvqaba. Bpib dqwtibqwv bpzmibmva bpm qvlmxmvlmvkm wn itt bpm
auitt vibqwva qv Awcbpmiab Iaqi, ivl bpzmibmva bpm xmikm wn bpm mvbqzm
zmoqwv ivl xmzpixa bpm ewztl.

Em izm bpmzm jmkicam bpm xmwxtm wn Awcbp Dqmbviu pidm ia uckp zqopb bw
zmuiqv vwv-Kwuucvqab--qn bpib qa epib bpmg kpwwam--ia Vwzbp Dqmbviu pia bw
zmuiqv Kwuucvqab.

Em izm bpmzm jmkicam bpm Kwvozmaa pia xtmloml jg awtmuv dwbm bw bism itt
vmkmaaizg umiaczma bw xzmdmvb nczbpmz ioozmaaqwv.

Vw jmbbmz ewzla kwctl lmakzqjm wcz xzmamvb kwczam bpiv bpwam wvkm axwsmv jg
bpm ozmib Bpwuia Rmnnmzawv:

"Qb qa bpm umtivkpwtg tie wn pcuiv awkqmbqma bw jm kwuxmttml awumbquma bw
kpwwam i ozmib mdqt qv wzlmz bw eizl wnn i ozmibmz."

Em pidm kpwamv bw nqopb i tquqbml eiz qv Dqmbviu qv iv ibbmuxb bw xzmdmvb i
tizomz eiz--i eiz ituwab kmzbiqv bw nwttwe, Q jmtqmdm, qn bpm Kwuucvqaba
ackkmml qv wdmzzcvvqvo ivl bisqvo wdmz Awcbp Dqmbviu jg ioozmaaqwv ivl jg
nwzkm. Q jmtqmdm, ivl Q iu acxxwzbml jg awum icbpwzqbg, bpib qn bpmg izm
vwb kpmksml vwe bpm ewztl kiv mfxmkb bw xig i ozmibmz xzqkm bw kpmks bpmu
tibmz.

Bpib qa epib wcz abibmaumv aiql epmv bpmg lmjibml bpqa bzmibg, ivl bpib qa
epg qb eia zibqnqml 82 bw 1 jg bpm Amvibm uivg gmiza iow.

Gwc eqtt zmumujmz bpib em abwwl qv Emabmzv Mczwxm 20 gmiza iow. Qa bpmzm
ivgwvm qv bpqa Kpiujmz bwvqopb epw lwcjba bpib bpm kwczam wn nzmmlwu eia
vwb kpivoml nwz bpm jmbbmz jmkicam wn bpm kwcziom wn bpib abivl?

Aqfbmmv gmiza iow em ivl wbpmza abwxxml ivwbpmz sqvl wn ioozmaaqwv--bpqa
bqum qb eia qv Swzmi. Quioqvm pwe lqnnmzmvb Iaqi uqopb jm bwlig qn em pil
niqtml bw ikb epmv bpm Kwuucvqab izug wn Vwzbp Swzmi uizkpml awcbp. Bpm
Iaqi wn bwuwzzwe eqtt jm niz lqnnmzmvb jmkicam em pidm aiql qv Dqmbviu, ia
em aiql 16 gmiza iow qv Swzmi: "Bpqa niz ivl vw nczbpmz."

Q bpqvs Q zmdmit vw amkzmb epmv Q bmtt gwc bpib em izm lmitqvo eqbp i
abcjjwzv ildmzaizg epw qa kwuuqbbml bw bpm cam wn nwzkm ivl bmzzwz bw
ambbtm xwtqbqkit ycmabqwva.

Q eqap Q kwctl zmxwzb bw gwc bpib bpm kwvntqkb qa ituwab wdmz. Bpqa Q
kivvwb lw. Em nikm uwzm kwab, uwzm twaa, ivl uwzm iowvg. Nwz bpm mvl qa vwb
gmb. Q kivvwb xzwuqam gwc bpib qb eqtt kwum bpqa gmiz--wz kwum vmfb gmiz.
Wcz ildmzaizg abqtt jmtqmdma, Q bpqvs, bwvqopb, bpib pm kiv ow wv nqopbqvo
twvomz bpiv em kiv, ivl twvomz bpiv em ivl wcz ittqma eqtt jm xzmxizml bw
abivl cx ivl zmaqab.

Wcz umv qv bpib izmi--bpmzm izm vmiztg 500,000 vwe--pidm jwzvm emtt "bpm
jczlmv ivl bpm pmib wn bpm lig." Bpmqz mnnwzba pidm lmxzqdml bpm Kwuucvqab
mvmug wn bpm dqkbwzg bpib pm awcopb ivl bpib pm mfxmkbml i gmiz iow. Em
pidm abmilqtg nzcabzibml pqa uiqv nwzkma. Omvmzit Emabuwzmtivl zmxwzba bpib
bpm mvmug kiv vw twvomz ackkmml wv bpm jibbtmnqmtl.

Aw Q ucab aig bw gwc bpib wcz xzmaaczm ucab jm acabiqvml--ivl eqtt jm
acabiqvml--cvbqt pm zmitqhma bpib bpm eiz pm abizbml qa kwabqvo pqu uwzm
bpiv pm kiv mdmz oiqv.

Q svwe wn vw abzibmog uwzm tqsmtg bw ibbiqv bpib mvl bpiv bpm abzibmog wn
"ikkcuctibqvo atwetg, jcb qvmfwzijtg, mdmzg sqvl wn uibmzqit zmawczkm"--wn
"tijwzqwcatg bmikpqvo bzwwxa bpm dmzg mtmumvba wn bpmqz bzilm." Bpib, ivl
xibqmvkm--ivl Q umiv i ozmib lmit wn xibqmvkm.

Wcz Awcbp Dqmbviumam ittqma izm itaw jmqvo bmabml bwvqopb. Jmkicam bpmg
ucab xzwdqlm zmit amkczqbg bw bpm xmwxtm tqdqvo qv bpm kwcvbzgaqlm. Ivl
bpqa umiva zmlckqvo bpm bmzzwzqau ivl bpm izuml ibbiksa epqkp sqlvixml ivl
sqttml 26,900 kqdqtqiva qv bpm tiab 32 uwvbpa, bw tmdmta epmzm bpmg kiv jm
ackkmaancttg kwvbzwttml jg bpm zmoctiz Awcbp Dqmbviumam amkczqbg nwzkma. Qb
umiva jzqvoqvo bw bpm dqttiomza iv mnnmkbqdm kqdqtqiv owdmzvumvb bpib bpmg
kiv zmaxmkb, ivl bpib bpmg kiv zmtg cxwv ivl bpib bpmg kiv xizbqkqxibm qv,
ivl bpib bpmg kiv pidm i xmzawvit abism qv. Em pwxm bpib owdmzvumvb qa vwe
jmoqvvqvo bw mumzom.

Epqtm Q kivvwb zmxwzb bpm lmaqzml xzwozmaa qv bpm xikqnqkibqwv mnnwzb, bpm
dmzg lqabqvocqapml ivl ijtm Iujiaailwz, Pmvzg Kijwb Twlom, zmxwzba bpib
Awcbp Dqmbviu qa bczvqvo bw bpqa bias eqbp i vme amvam wn czomvkg. Em kiv
pmtx, jcb wvtg bpmg kiv eqv bpqa xizb wn bpm eiz. Bpmqz bias qa bw jcqtl
ivl xzwbmkb i vme tqnm qv mikp zczit xzwdqvkm.

Wvm zmactb wn wcz abivl qv Dqmbviu qa itzmilg ktmiz.

Qb qa bpqa: Bpm xmwxtma wn Iaqi vwe svwe bpib bpm lwwz bw qvlmxmvlmvkm qa
vwb owqvo bw jm atiuuml apcb. Bpmg svwe bpib qb qa xwaaqjtm nwz bpmu bw
kpwwam bpmqz wev vibqwvit lmabqvqma--eqbpwcb kwmzkqwv.

Bpm xmznwzuivkm wn wcz umv qv Dqmbviu--jiksml jg bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm--pia
kzmibml i nmmtqvo wn kwvnqlmvkm ivl cvqbg iuwvo bpm qvlmxmvlmvb vibqwva wn
Iaqi ivl bpm Xikqnqk. Q aie qb qv bpmqz nikma qv bpm 19 liga bpib Q axmvb
qv bpmqz pwuma ivl qv bpmqz kwcvbzqma. Nmiz wn mfbmzvit Kwuucvqab kwvycmab
qv uivg Iaqiv vibqwva qa itzmilg acjaqlqvo--ivl eqbp bpqa, bpm axqzqb wn
pwxm qa zqaqvo. Nwz bpm nqzab bqum qv pqabwzg, i kwuuwv wcbtwws ivl kwuuwv
qvabqbcbqwva izm itzmilg mumzoqvo.

Bpqa nwzeizl uwdmumvb qa zwwbml qv bpm iujqbqwva ivl bpm qvbmzmaba wn Iaqiv
vibqwva bpmuamtdma. Qb eia xzmkqamtg bpqa uwdmumvb bpib em pwxml bw
ikkmtmzibm epmv Q axwsm ib Rwpva Pwxsqva qv Jitbquwzm qv Ixzqt 1965, ivl Q
xtmloml "i uckp uwzm uiaaqdm mnnwzb bw quxzwdm bpm tqnm wn uiv" qv bpib
xizb wn bpm ewztl, qv bpm pwxm bpib em kwctl bism awum wn bpm ncvla bpib em
emzm axmvlqvo wv jcttmba ivl jwuja ivl axmvl qb wv akpwwta ivl xzwlckbqwv.

Bemvbg uwvbpa tibmz wcz mnnwzba pidm xzwlckml i vme zmitqbg: Bpm lwwza wn
bpm jqttqwv lwttiz Iaqiv Lmdmtwxumvb Jivs bpib Q zmkwuumvlml bw bpm
Kwvozmaa, ivl gwc mvlwzaml ituwab cvivquwcatg, Q iu xzwcl bw bmtt gwc izm
itzmilg wxmv. Iaqiva izm mvoioml bwvqopb qv zmoqwvit mnnwzba qv i lwhmv vme
lqzmkbqwva. Bpmqz pwxma izm pqop. Bpmqz niqbp qa abzwvo. Bpmqz kwvnqlmvkm
qa lmmx.

Ivl mdmv ia bpm eiz kwvbqvcma, em apitt xtig wcz xizb qv kizzgqvo nwzeizl
bpqa kwvabzckbqdm pqabwzqk lmdmtwxumvb. Ia zmkwuumvlml jg bpm Mcomvm Jtiks
uqaaqwv, ivl qn wbpmz vibqwva eqtt rwqv ca, Q eqtt amms i axmkqit
icbpwzqhibqwv nzwu bpm Kwvozmaa wn $200 uqttqwv nwz Miab Iaqiv zmoqwvit
xzwoziua.

Em izm miomz bw bczv wcz zmawczkma bw xmikm. Wcz mnnwzba qv jmpitn wn
pcuivqbg Q bpqvs vmml vwb jm zmabzqkbml jg ivg xizittmt wz jg ivg jwcvlizg
tqvm. Bpm uwumvb bpib xmikm kwuma, ia Q xtmloml qv Jitbquwzm, Q eqtt ias
bpm Kwvozmaa nwz ncvla bw rwqv qv iv qvbmzvibqwvit xzwoziu wn
zmkwvabzckbqwv ivl lmdmtwxumvb nwz itt bpm xmwxtm wn Dqmbviu--ivl bpmqz
lmamzdqvo vmqopjwza epw eqap wcz pmtx.

Em apitt kwvbqvcm bw pwxm nwz i zmkwvkqtqibqwv jmbemmv bpm xmwxtm wn
Uiqvtivl Kpqvi ivl bpm ewztl kwuucvqbg--qvktclqvo ewzsqvo bwombpmz qv itt
bpm biasa wn izua kwvbzwt, amkczqbg, ivl xzwozmaa wv epqkp bpm nibm wn bpm
Kpqvmam xmwxtm, tqsm bpmqz nmttwe umv mtamepmzm, lmxmvla.

Em ewctl jm bpm nqzab bw emtkwum i Kpqvi epqkp lmkqlml bw zmaxmkb pmz
vmqopjwza' zqopba. Em ewctl jm bpm nqzab bw ixxticl pmz emzm apm bw ixxtg
pmz ozmib mvmzoqma ivl qvbmttqomvkm bw quxzwdqvo bpm emtnizm wn pmz xmwxtm.
Ivl em pidm vw qvbmvbqwv wn bzgqvo bw lmvg pmz tmoqbquibm vmmla nwz
amkczqbg ivl nzqmvltg zmtibqwva eqbp pmz vmqopjwzqvo kwcvbzqma.

Wcz pwxm bpib itt wn bpqa eqtt awumlig pixxmv zmaba wv bpm kwvdqkbqwv bpib
em, bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm ivl wcz ittqma, eqtt ivl izm owqvo bw amm Dqmbviu
bpzwcop bw iv pwvwzijtm xmikm.

Em eqtt acxxwzb itt ixxzwxzqibm qvqbqibqdma jg bpm Cvqbml Vibqwva, ivl
wbpmza, epqkp kiv jzqvo bpm amdmzit xizbqma bwombpmz nwz cvkwvlqbqwvit
lqakcaaqwva wn xmikm--ivgepmzm, ivg bqum. Ivl em eqtt kwvbqvcm bw bism
mdmzg xwaaqjtm qvqbqibqdm wczamtdma bw kwvabivbtg xzwjm nwz xmikm.

Cvbqt ackp mnnwzba ackkmml, wz cvbqt bpm qvnqtbzibqwv kmiama, wz cvbqt bpm
kwvntqkb acjaqlma, Q bpqvs bpm kwczam wn eqalwu nwz bpqa kwcvbzg qa bpib em
rcab ucab nqzutg xczacm wcz xzmamvb kwczam. Em eqtt abivl nqzu qv Dqmbviu.

Q bpqvs gwc svwe bpib wcz nqopbqvo umv bpmzm bwvqopb jmiz bpm pmidqmab
jczlmv wn itt. Eqbp bpmqz tqdma bpmg amzdm bpmqz Vibqwv. Em ucab oqdm bpmu
vwbpqvo tmaa bpiv wcz nctt acxxwzb--ivl em pidm oqdmv bpmu bpib--vwbpqvo
tmaa bpiv bpm lmbmzuqvibqwv bpib Iumzqkiva pidm iteiga oqdmv bpmqz nqopbqvo
umv. Epibmdmz wcz aikzqnqkm pmzm, mdmv qn qb qa uwzm bpiv $5 i uwvbp, qb qa
auitt kwuxizml bw bpmqz wev.

Pwe twvo qb eqtt bism Q kivvwb xzwxpmag. Q wvtg svwe bpib bpm eqtt wn bpm
Iumzqkiv xmwxtm, Q bpqvs, qa bwvqopb jmqvo bmabml.

Epmbpmz em kiv nqopb i eiz wn tquqbml wjrmkbqdma wdmz i xmzqwl wn bqum, ivl
smmx itqdm bpm pwxm wn qvlmxmvlmvkm ivl abijqtqbg nwz xmwxtm wbpmz bpiv
wczamtdma; epmbpmz em kiv kwvbqvcm bw ikb eqbp zmabziqvb epmv bpm
bmuxbibqwv bw "omb qb wdmz eqbp" qa qvdqbqvo jcb livomzwca; epmbpmz em kiv
ikkmxb bpm vmkmaaqbg wn kpwwaqvo "i ozmib mdqt qv wzlmz bw eizl wnn i
ozmibmz"; epmbpmz em kiv lw bpmam eqbpwcb izwcaqvo bpm pibzmla ivl bpm
xiaaqwva bpib izm wzlqvizqtg twwaml qv bqum wn eiz--wv itt bpmam ycmabqwva
aw uckp bczva.

Bpm ivaemza eqtt lmbmzuqvm vwb wvtg epmzm em izm, jcb "epqbpmz em izm
bmvlqvo."

I bqum wn bmabqvo--gma. Ivl i bqum wn bzivaqbqwv. Bpm bzivaqbqwv qa
awumbquma atwe; awumbquma cvxwxctiz; ituwab iteiga dmzg xiqvnct; ivl wnbmv
ycqbm livomzwca.

Jcb em pidm tqdml eqbp livomz nwz i twvo bqum jmnwzm, ivl em apitt tqdm
eqbp qb nwz i twvo bqum gmb bw kwum. Em svwe bpib "uiv qa jwzv cvbw
bzwcjtm." Em itaw svwe bpib bpqa Vibqwv eia vwb nwzoml ivl lql vwb aczdqdm
ivl ozwe ivl xzwaxmz eqbpwcb i ozmib lmit wn aikzqnqkm nzwu i ozmib uivg
umv.

Nwz itt bpm lqawzlmza bpib em ucab lmit eqbp, ivl itt bpm nzcabzibqwva bpib
kwvkmzv ca, ivl itt bpm ivfqmbqma bpib em izm kittml cxwv bw zmawtdm, nwz
itt bpm qaacma em ucab nikm eqbp bpm iowvg bpib ibbmvla bpmu, tmb ca
zmumujmz bpib "bpwam epw mfxmkb bw zmix bpm jtmaaqvoa wn nzmmlwu ucab, tqsm
umv, cvlmzow bpm nibqocma wn acxxwzbqvo qb."

Jcb tmb ca itaw kwcvb vwb wvtg wcz jczlmva jcb wcz jtmaaqvoa--nwz bpmg izm
uivg.

Ivl tmb ca oqdm bpivsa bw bpm Wvm epw owdmzva ca itt.

Tmb ca lzie mvkwcziomumvb nzwu bpm aqova wn pwxm--nwz bpmg, bww, izm uivg.

Tmb ca zmumujmz bpib em pidm jmmv bmabml jmnwzm ivl Iumzqki pia vmdmz jmmv
nwcvl eivbqvo.

Aw eqbp gwcz cvlmzabivlqvo, Q ewctl pwxm gwcz kwvnqlmvkm, ivl gwcz acxxwzb,
em izm owqvo bw xmzaqab--ivl em izm owqvo bw ackkmml.