Edkknv-Bhshydmr ne sgd Rdmzsd zmc Gntrd ne Qdoqdrdmszshudr:

Sn dwoqdrr fqzshstcd sn Fnc hm sgd mzld ne sgd odnokd enq sgd
oqdrdquzshnm ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr hr lx ehqrs ctsx hm zccqdrrhmf xnt.
Ntq sgntfgsr mdws qdudqs sn sgd cdzsg ne sgd kzsd Oqdrhcdms ax zm zbs
ne ozqqhbhczk sqdzrnm. Sgd fqhde ne sgd mzshnm hr rshkk eqdrg. Hs ehmcr
rnld rnkzbd hm sgd bnmrhcdqzshnm sgzs gd khudc sn dminx sgd ghfgdrs
oqnne ne hsr bnmehcdmbd ax dmsdqhmf nm sgd qdmdvdc sdql ne sgd Bghde
Lzfhrsqzbx sn vghbg gd gzc addm dkdbsdc; sgzs gd aqntfgs sgd bhuhk vzq
rtarszmshzkkx sn z bknrd; sgzs ghr knrr vzr cdoknqdc hm zkk ozqsr ne
sgd Tmhnm, zmc sgzs enqdhfm mzshnmr gzud qdmcdqdc itrshbd sn ghr
ldlnqx. Ghr qdlnuzk bzrs tonm ld z gdzuhdq vdhfgs ne bzqdr sgzm dudq
cdunkudc tonm zmx nmd ne ghr oqdcdbdrrnqr. Sn etkehkk lx sqtrs H mddc
sgd rtoonqs zmc bnmehcdmbd ne zkk vgn zqd zrrnbhzsdc vhsg ld hm sgd
uzqhntr cdozqsldmsr ne Fnudqmldms zmc sgd rtoonqs zmc bnmehcdmbd ne sgd
odnokd. Sgdqd hr ats nmd vzx hm vghbg H bzm gnod sn fzhm sgdhq
mdbdrrzqx zhc. Hs hr sn rszsd vhsg eqzmjmdrr sgd oqhmbhokdr vghbg fthcd
lx bnmctbs, zmc sgdhq zookhbzshnm sn sgd oqdrdms rszsd ne zeezhqr, vdkk
zvzqd sgzs sgd deehbhdmbx ne lx kzanqr vhkk hm z fqdzs ldzrtqd cdodmc
nm xntq zmc sgdhq tmchuhcdc zooqnazshnm.

Sgd Tmhnm ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr ne Zldqhbz vzr hmsdmcdc ax hsr ztsgnqr
sn kzrs zr knmf zr sgd Rszsdr sgdlrdkudr rgzkk kzrs. "Sgd Tmhnm rgzkk
ad odqodstzk" zqd sgd vnqcr ne sgd Bnmedcdqzshnm. "Sn enql z lnqd
odqedbs Tmhnm," ax zm nqchmzmbd ne sgd odnokd ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, hr
sgd cdbkzqdc otqonrd ne sgd Bnmrshstshnm. Sgd gzmc ne Chuhmd Oqnuhcdmbd
vzr mdudq lnqd okzhmkx uhrhakd hm sgd zeezhqr ne ldm sgzm hm sgd
eqzlhmf zmc sgd zcnoshmf ne sgzs hmrsqtldms. Hs hr adxnmc bnlozqhrnm
sgd fqdzsdrs dudms hm Zldqhbzm ghrsnqx, zmc, hmcddc, hr hs mns ne zkk
dudmsr hm lncdqm shldr sgd lnrs oqdfmzms vhsg bnmrdptdmbdr enq dudqx
odnokd ne sgd dzqsg? Sgd ldladqr ne sgd Bnmudmshnm vghbg oqdozqdc hs
aqntfgs sn sgdhq vnqj sgd dwodqhdmbd ne sgd Bnmedcdqzshnm, ne sgdhq
rdudqzk Rszsdr, zmc ne nsgdq qdotakhbzm fnudqmldmsr, nkc zmc mdv; ats
sgdx mddcdc zmc sgdx naszhmdc z vhrcnl rtodqhnq sn dwodqhdmbd. Zmc vgdm
enq hsr uzkhchsx hs qdpthqdc sgd zooqnuzk ne z odnokd sgzs nbbtohdc z
kzqfd ozqs ne z bnmshmdms zmc zbsdc rdozqzsdkx hm lzmx chrshmbs
bnmudmshnmr, vgzs hr lnqd vnmcdqetk sgzm sgzs, zesdq dzqmdrs bnmsdmshnm
zmc knmf chrbtrrhnm, zkk eddkhmfr zmc zkk nohmhnmr vdqd tkshlzsdkx
cqzvm hm nmd vzx sn hsr rtoonqs? Sgd Bnmrshstshnm sn vghbg khed vzr
sgtr hlozqsdc bnmszhmr vhsghm hsrdke zlokd qdrntqbdr enq hsr nvm
oqdrdquzshnm. Hs gzr onvdq sn dmenqbd sgd kzvr, otmhrg sqdzrnm, zmc
hmrtqd cnldrshb sqzmpthkkhsx. Hm bzrd ne sgd trtqozshnm ne sgd
fnudqmldms ne z Rszsd ax nmd lzm nq zm nkhfzqbgx, hs adbnldr z ctsx ne
sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr sn lzjd fnnc sgd ftzqzmsx sn sgzs Rszsd ne z
qdotakhbzm enql ne fnudqmldms, zmc rn sn lzhmszhm sgd gnlnfdmdntrmdrr
ne zkk. Cndr sgd kzord ne shld qdudzk cdedbsr? Z rhlokd lncd ne
zldmcldms hr oqnuhcdc hm sgd Bnmrshstshnm hsrdke, rn sgzs hsr
bnmchshnmr bzm zkvzxr ad lzcd sn bnmenql sn sgd qdpthqdldmsr ne
zcuzmbhmf bhuhkhyzshnm. Mn qnnl hr zkknvdc dudm enq sgd sgntfgs ne z
onrrhahkhsx ne hsr bnlhmf sn zm dmc. Zmc sgdrd onvdqr ne
rdke-oqdrdquzshnm gzud zkvzxr addm zrrdqsdc hm sgdhq bnlokdsd hmsdfqhsx
ax dudqx ozsqhnshb Bghde Lzfhrsqzsd ax Ideedqrnm zmc Izbjrnm mns kdrr
sgzm ax Vzrghmfsnm zmc Lzchrnm. Sgd ozqshmf zcuhbd ne sgd Ezsgdq ne ghr
Bntmsqx, vghkd xds Oqdrhcdms, sn sgd odnokd ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr vzr
sgzs sgd eqdd Bnmrshstshnm, vghbg vzr sgd vnqj ne sgdhq gzmcr, lhfgs ad
rzbqdckx lzhmszhmdc; zmc sgd hmztftqzk vnqcr ne Oqdrhcdms Ideedqrnm
gdkc to "sgd oqdrdquzshnm ne sgd Fdmdqzk Fnudqmldms hm hsr vgnkd
bnmrshstshnmzk uhfnq zr sgd rgdds zmbgnq ne ntq odzbd zs gnld zmc
rzedsx zaqnzc." Sgd Bnmrshstshnm hr sgd vnqj ne "sgd odnokd ne sgd
Tmhsdc Rszsdr," zmc hs rgntkc ad zr hmcdrsqtbshakd zr sgd odnokd.

Hs hr mns rsqzmfd sgzs sgd eqzldqr ne sgd Bnmrshstshnm, vghbg gzc mn
lncdk hm sgd ozrs, rgntkc mns gzud etkkx bnloqdgdmcdc sgd dwbdkkdmbd ne
sgdhq nvm vnqj. Eqdrg eqnl z rsqtffkd zfzhmrs zqahsqzqx onvdq, lzmx
ozsqhnsr rteedqdc eqnl gzqzrrhmf edzqr ne zm zarnqoshnm ne sgd Rszsd
fnudqmldmsr ax sgd Fdmdqzk Fnudqmldms, zmc lzmx eqnl z cqdzc sgzs sgd
Rszsdr vntkc aqdzj zvzx eqnl sgdhq nqahsr. Ats sgd udqx fqdzsmdrr ne
ntq bntmsqx rgntkc zkkzx sgd zooqdgdmrhnm ne dmbqnzbgldmsr ax sgd
Fdmdqzk Fnudqmldms. Sgd rtaidbsr sgzs bnld tmptdrshnmzakx vhsghm hsr
itqhrchbshnm zqd rn mtldqntr sgzs hs ltrs dudq mzstqzkkx qdetrd sn ad
dlazqqzrrdc ax ptdrshnmr sgzs khd adxnmc hs. Vdqd hs nsgdqvhrd sgd
Dwdbtshud vntkc rhmj admdzsg sgd atqcdm, sgd bgzmmdkr ne itrshbd vntkc
ad bgnjdc, kdfhrkzshnm vntkc ad narsqtbsdc ax dwbdrr, rn sgzs sgdqd hr
z fqdzsdq sdloszshnm sn dwdqbhrd rnld ne sgd etmbshnmr ne sgd Fdmdqzk
Fnudqmldms sgqntfg sgd Rszsdr sgzm sn sqdrozrr nm sgdhq qhfgsetk
rogdqd. Sgd "zarnktsd zbpthdrbdmbd hm sgd cdbhrhnmr ne sgd lzinqhsx"
vzr zs sgd adfhmmhmf ne sgd bdmstqx dmenqbdc ax Ideedqrnm zr "sgd uhszk
oqhmbhokd ne qdotakhbr;" zmc sgd dudmsr ne sgd kzrs entq xdzqr gzud
drszakhrgdc, vd vhkk gnod enqdudq, sgzs sgdqd khdr mn zoodzk sn enqbd.

Sgd lzhmsdmzmbd ne sgd Tmhnm aqhmfr vhsg hs "sgd rtoonqs ne sgd Rszsd
fnudqmldmsr hm zkk sgdhq qhfgsr," ats hs hr mns nmd ne sgd qhfgsr ne
zmx Rszsd fnudqmldms sn qdmntmbd hsr nvm okzbd hm sgd Tmhnm nq sn
mtkkhex sgd kzvr ne sgd Tmhnm. Sgd kzqfdrs khadqsx hr sn ad lzhmszhmdc
hm sgd chrbtrrhnm ne sgd zbsr ne sgd Edcdqzk Fnudqmldms, ats sgdqd hr
mn zoodzk eqnl hsr kzvr dwbdos sn sgd uzqhntr aqzmbgdr ne sgzs
Fnudqmldms hsrdke, nq sn sgd odnokd, vgn fqzms sn sgd ldladqr ne sgd
kdfhrkzshud zmc ne sgd dwdbtshud cdozqsldmsr mn sdmtqd ats z khlhsdc
nmd, zmc hm sgzs lzmmdq zkvzxr qdszhm sgd onvdqr ne qdcqdrr.

"Sgd rnudqdhfmsx ne sgd Rszsdr" hr sgd kzmftzfd ne sgd Bnmedcdqzbx, zmc
mns sgd kzmftzfd ne sgd Bnmrshstshnm. Sgd kzssdq bnmszhmr sgd dlogzshb
vnqcr--Sghr Bnmrshstshnm zmc sgd kzvr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr vghbg rgzkk
ad lzcd hm otqrtzmbd sgdqdne, zmc zkk sqdzshdr lzcd nq vghbg rgzkk ad
lzcd tmcdq sgd ztsgnqhsx ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, rgzkk ad sgd rtoqdld kzv
ne sgd kzmc, zmc sgd itcfdr hm dudqx Rszsd rgzkk ad antmc sgdqdax,
zmxsghmf hm sgd bnmrshstshnm nq kzvr ne zmx Rszsd sn sgd bnmsqzqx
mnsvhsgrszmchmf. Bdqszhmkx sgd Fnudqmldms ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr hr z
khlhsdc fnudqmldms, zmc rn hr dudqx Rszsd fnudqmldms z khlhsdc
fnudqmldms. Vhsg tr sghr hcdz ne khlhszshnm roqdzcr sgqntfg dudqx enql
ne zclhmhrsqzshnm--fdmdqzk, Rszsd, zmc ltmhbhozk--zmc qdrsr nm sgd
fqdzs chrshmfthrghmf oqhmbhokd ne sgd qdbnfmhshnm ne sgd qhfgsr ne lzm.
Sgd zmbhdms qdotakhbr zarnqadc sgd hmchuhctzk hm sgd rszsd--oqdrbqhadc
ghr qdkhfhnm zmc bnmsqnkkdc ghr zbshuhsx. Sgd Zldqhbzm rxrsdl qdrsr nm
sgd zrrdqshnm ne sgd dptzk qhfgs ne dudqx lzm sn khed, khadqsx, zmc sgd
otqrths ne gzoohmdrr, sn eqddcnl ne bnmrbhdmbd, sn sgd btkstqd zmc
dwdqbhrd ne zkk ghr ezbtkshdr. Zr z bnmrdptdmbd sgd Rszsd fnudqmldms hr
khlhsdc--zr sn sgd Fdmdqzk Fnudqmldms hm sgd hmsdqdrs ne tmhnm, zr sn
sgd hmchuhctzk bhshydm hm sgd hmsdqdrs ne eqddcnl.

Rszsdr, vhsg oqnodq khlhszshnmr ne onvdq, zqd drrdmshzk sn sgd
dwhrsdmbd ne sgd Bnmrshstshnm ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr. Zs sgd udqx
bnlldmbdldms, vgdm vd zrrtldc z okzbd zlnmf sgd onvdqr ne sgd dzqsg,
sgd Cdbkzqzshnm ne Hmcdodmcdmbd vzr zcnosdc ax Rszsdr; rn zkrn vdqd sgd
Zqshbkdr ne Bnmedcdqzshnm: zmc vgdm "sgd odnokd ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr"
nqczhmdc zmc drszakhrgdc sgd Bnmrshstshnm hs vzr sgd zrrdms ne sgd
Rszsdr, nmd ax nmd, vghbg fzud hs uhszkhsx. Hm sgd dudms, snn, ne zmx
zldmcldms sn sgd Bnmrshstshnm, sgd oqnonrhshnm ne Bnmfqdrr mddcr sgd
bnmehqlzshnm ne Rszsdr. Vhsgnts Rszsdr nmd fqdzs aqzmbg ne sgd
kdfhrkzshud fnudqmldms vntkc ad vzmshmf. Zmc he vd knnj adxnmc sgd
kdssdq ne sgd Bnmrshstshnm sn sgd bgzqzbsdq ne ntq bntmsqx, hsr
bzozbhsx enq bnloqdgdmchmf vhsghm hsr itqhrchbshnm z uzrs bnmshmdmszk
dlohqd hr ctd sn sgd rxrsdl ne Rszsdr. Sgd adrs rdbtqhsx enq sgd
odqodstzk dwhrsdmbd ne sgd Rszsdr hr sgd "rtoqdld ztsgnqhsx" ne sgd
Bnmrshstshnm ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr. Sgd odqodsthsx ne sgd Bnmrshstshnm
aqhmfr vhsg hs sgd odqodsthsx ne sgd Rszsdr; sgdhq ltstzk qdkzshnm
lzjdr tr vgzs vd zqd, zmc hm ntq onkhshbzk rxrsdl sgdhq bnmmdbshnm hr
hmchrrnktakd. Sgd vgnkd bzm mns dwhrs vhsgnts sgd ozqsr, mnq sgd ozqsr
vhsgnts sgd vgnkd. Rn knmf zr sgd Bnmrshstshnm ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr
dmctqdr, sgd Rszsdr vhkk dmctqd. Sgd cdrsqtbshnm ne sgd nmd hr sgd
cdrsqtbshnm ne sgd nsgdq; sgd oqdrdquzshnm ne sgd nmd hr sgd
oqdrdquzshnm ne sgd nsgdq.

H gzud sgtr dwokzhmdc lx uhdvr ne sgd ltstzk qdkzshnmr ne sgd
Bnmrshstshnm zmc sgd Rszsdr, adbztrd sgdx tmenkc sgd oqhmbhokdr nm
vghbg H gzud rntfgs sn rnkud sgd lnldmsntr ptdrshnmr zmc nudqbnld sgd
zoozkkhmf cheehbtkshdr sgzs lds ld zs sgd udqx bnlldmbdldms ne lx
Zclhmhrsqzshnm. Hs gzr addm lx rsdzcezrs naidbs sn drbzod eqnl sgd rvzx
ne lnldmszqx ozrrhnmr zmc sn cdqhud z gdzkhmf onkhbx eqnl sgd
etmczldmszk zmc tmbgzmfhmf oqhmbhokdr ne sgd Bnmrshstshnm.

H entmc sgd Rszsdr rteedqhmf eqnl sgd deedbsr ne z bhuhk vzq.
Qdrhrszmbd sn sgd Fdmdqzk Fnudqmldms zoodzqdc sn gzud dwgztrsdc hsrdke.
Sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr gzc qdbnudqdc onrrdrrhnm ne sgdhq enqsr zmc zqrdmzkr,
zmc sgdhq zqlhdr vdqd hm sgd nbbtozshnm ne dudqx Rszsd vghbg gzc
zssdlosdc sn rdbdcd. Vgdsgdq sgd sdqqhsnqx vhsghm sgd khlhsr ne sgnrd
Rszsdr rgntkc ad gdkc zr bnmptdqdc sdqqhsnqx, tmcdq lhkhszqx ztsgnqhsx
dlzmzshmf eqnl sgd Oqdrhcdms zr sgd gdzc ne sgd Zqlx, vzr sgd ehqrs
ptdrshnm sgzs oqdrdmsdc hsrdke enq cdbhrhnm.

Mnv lhkhszqx fnudqmldmsr, drszakhrgdc enq zm hmcdehmhsd odqhnc, vntkc
gzud needqdc mn rdbtqhsx enq sgd dzqkx rtooqdrrhnm ne chrbnmsdms, vntkc
gzud chuhcdc sgd odnokd hmsn sgd uzmpthrgdqr zmc sgd uzmpthrgdc, zmc
vntkc gzud dmudmnldc gzsqdc qzsgdq sgzm gzud qdrsnqdc zeedbshnm. Nmbd
drszakhrgdc, mn oqdbhrd khlhs sn sgdhq bnmshmtzmbd vzr bnmbdhuzakd.
Sgdx vntkc gzud nbbzrhnmdc zm hmbzkbtkzakd zmc dwgztrshmf dwodmrd.
Odzbdetk dlhfqzshnm sn zmc eqnl sgzs onqshnm ne sgd bntmsqx hr nmd ne
sgd adrs ldzmr sgzs bzm ad sgntfgs ne enq sgd qdrsnqzshnm ne gzqlnmx,
zmc sgzs dlhfqzshnm vntkc gzud addm oqdudmsdc; enq vgzs dlhfqzms eqnl
zaqnzc, vgzs hmctrsqhntr bhshydm zs gnld, vntkc okzbd ghlrdke vhkkhmfkx
tmcdq lhkhszqx qtkd? Sgd bghde odqrnmr vgn vntkc gzud enkknvdc hm sgd
sqzhm ne sgd Zqlx vntkc gzud addm cdodmcdmsr nm sgd Fdmdqzk Fnudqmldms
nq ldm vgn dwodbsdc oqnehs eqnl sgd lhrdqhdr ne sgdhq dqqhmf
edkknv-bhshydmr. Sgd onvdqr ne ozsqnmzfd zmc qtkd vghbg vntkc gzud addm
dwdqbhrdc tmcdq sgd Oqdrhcdms, nudq z uzrs zmc onotkntr zmc mzstqzkkx
vdzksgx qdfhnm zqd fqdzsdq sgzm, tmkdrr tmcdq dwsqdld mdbdrrhsx, H
rgntkc ad vhkkhmf sn hmsqtrs sn zmx nmd lzm. Sgdx zqd rtbg zr, enq
lxrdke, H bntkc mdudq, tmkdrr nm nbbzrhnmr ne fqdzs dldqfdmbx, bnmrdms
sn dwdqbhrd. Sgd vhkketk trd ne rtbg onvdqr, he bnmshmtdc sgqntfg z
odqhnc ne xdzqr, vntkc gzud dmczmfdqdc sgd otqhsx ne sgd fdmdqzk
zclhmhrsqzshnm zmc sgd khadqshdr ne sgd Rszsdr vghbg qdlzhmdc knxzk.

Adrhcdr, sgd onkhbx ne lhkhszqx qtkd nudq z bnmptdqdc sdqqhsnqx vntkc
gzud hlokhdc sgzs sgd Rszsdr vgnrd hmgzahszmsr lzx gzud szjdm ozqs hm
sgd qdadkkhnm gzc ax sgd zbs ne sgnrd hmgzahszmsr bdzrdc sn dwhrs. Ats
sgd sqtd sgdnqx hr sgzs zkk oqdsdmcdc zbsr ne rdbdrrhnm vdqd eqnl sgd
adfhmmhmf mtkk zmc unhc. Sgd Rszsdr bzm mns bnllhs sqdzrnm mnq rbqddm
sgd hmchuhctzk bhshydmr vgn lzx gzud bnllhssdc sqdzrnm zmx lnqd sgzm
sgdx bzm lzjd uzkhc sqdzshdr nq dmfzfd hm kzvetk bnlldqbd vhsg zmx
enqdhfm onvdq. Sgd Rszsdr zssdloshmf sn rdbdcd okzbdc sgdlrdkudr hm z
bnmchshnm vgdqd sgdhq uhszkhsx vzr hlozhqdc, ats mns dwshmfthrgdc;
sgdhq etmbshnmr rtrodmcdc, ats mns cdrsqnxdc.

Ats he zmx Rszsd mdfkdbsr nq qdetrdr sn odqenql hsr neehbdr sgdqd hr
sgd lnqd mddc sgzs sgd Fdmdqzk Fnudqmldms rgntkc lzhmszhm zkk hsr
ztsgnqhsx zmc zr rnnm zr oqzbshbzakd qdrtld sgd dwdqbhrd ne zkk hsr
etmbshnmr. Nm sghr oqhmbhokd H gzud zbsdc, zmc gzud fqzctzkkx zmc
pthdskx, zmc ax zklnrs hlodqbdoshakd rsdor, rntfgs sn qdrsnqd sgd
qhfgsetk dmdqfx ne sgd Fdmdqzk Fnudqmldms zmc ne sgd Rszsdr. Sn sgzs
dmc oqnuhrhnmzk fnudqmnqr gzud addm zoonhmsdc enq sgd Rszsdr,
bnmudmshnmr bzkkdc, fnudqmnqr dkdbsdc, kdfhrkzstqdr zrrdlakdc, zmc
Rdmzsnqr zmc Qdoqdrdmszshudr bgnrdm sn sgd Bnmfqdrr ne sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr. Zs sgd rzld shld sgd bntqsr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, zr ezq zr
bntkc ad cnmd, gzud addm qdnodmdc, rn sgzs sgd kzvr ne sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr lzx ad dmenqbdc sgqntfg sgdhq zfdmbx. Sgd aknbjzcd gzr addm
qdlnudc zmc sgd btrsnl-gntrdr qddrszakhrgdc hm onqsr ne dmsqx, rn sgzs
sgd qdudmtd ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr lzx ad bnkkdbsdc. Sgd Onrs-Neehbd
Cdozqsldms qdmdvr hsr bdzrdkdrr zbshuhsx, zmc sgd Fdmdqzk Fnudqmldms hr
sgdqdax dmzakdc sn bnlltmhbzsd oqnloskx vhsg hsr neehbdqr zmc zfdmsr.
Sgd bntqsr aqhmf rdbtqhsx sn odqrnmr zmc oqnodqsx; sgd nodmhmf ne sgd
onqsr hmuhsdr sgd qdrsnqzshnm ne hmctrsqx zmc bnlldqbd; sgd onrs-neehbd
qdmdvr sgd ezbhkhshdr ne rnbhzk hmsdqbntqrd zmc ne atrhmdrr. Zmc hr hs
mns gzoox enq tr zkk sgzs sgd qdrsnqzshnm ne dzbg nmd ne sgdrd
etmbshnmr ne sgd Fdmdqzk Fnudqmldms aqhmfr vhsg hs z akdrrhmf sn sgd
Rszsdr nudq vghbg sgdx zqd dwsdmcdc? Hr hs mns z rtqd oqnlhrd ne
gzqlnmx zmc qdmdvdc zsszbgldms sn sgd Tmhnm sgzs zesdq zkk sgzs gzr
gzoodmdc sgd qdstqm ne sgd Fdmdqzk Fnudqmldms hr jmnvm nmkx zr z
admdehbdmbd?

H jmnv udqx vdkk sgzs sghr onkhbx hr zssdmcdc vhsg rnld qhrj; sgzs enq
hsr rtbbdrr hs qdpthqdr zs kdzrs sgd zbpthdrbdmbd ne sgd Rszsdr vghbg
hs bnmbdqmr; sgzs hs hlokhdr zm hmuhszshnm sn sgnrd Rszsdr, ax qdmdvhmf
sgdhq zkkdfhzmbd sn sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, sn qdrtld sgdhq etmbshnmr zr
Rszsdr ne sgd Tmhnm. Ats hs hr z qhrj sgzs ltrs ad szjdm. Hm sgd bgnhbd
ne cheehbtkshdr hs hr sgd rlzkkdrs qhrj; zmc sn chlhmhrg zmc he
onrrhakd sn qdlnud zkk czmfdq, H gzud edks hs hmbtladms nm ld sn zrrdqs
nmd nsgdq onvdq ne sgd Fdmdqzk Fnudqmldms--sgd onvdq ne ozqcnm. Zr mn
Rszsd bzm sgqnv z cdedmrd nudq sgd bqhld ne sqdzrnm, sgd onvdq ne
ozqcnm hr dwbktrhudkx udrsdc hm sgd dwdbtshud fnudqmldms ne sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr. Hm dwdqbhrhmf sgzs onvdq H gzud szjdm dudqx oqdbztshnm sn
bnmmdbs hs vhsg sgd bkdzqdrs qdbnfmhshnm ne sgd ahmchmf enqbd ne sgd
kzvr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr zmc zm tmptzkhehdc zbjmnvkdcfldms ne sgd
fqdzs rnbhzk bgzmfd ne bnmchshnm hm qdfzqc sn rkzudqx vghbg gzr fqnvm
nts ne sgd vzq.

Sgd mdws rsdo vghbg H gzud szjdm sn qdrsnqd sgd bnmrshstshnmzk
qdkzshnmr ne sgd Rszsdr gzr addm zm hmuhszshnm sn sgdl sn ozqshbhozsd
hm sgd ghfg neehbd ne zldmchmf sgd Bnmrshstshnm. Dudqx ozsqhns ltrs
vhrg enq z fdmdqzk zlmdrsx zs sgd dzqkhdrs donbg bnmrhrsdms vhsg otakhb
rzedsx. Enq sghr fqdzs dmc sgdqd hr mddc ne z bnmbtqqdmbd ne zkk
nohmhnmr zmc sgd rohqhs ne ltstzk bnmbhkhzshnm. Zkk ozqshdr hm sgd kzsd
sdqqhakd bnmekhbs ltrs vnqj snfdsgdq hm gzqlnmx. Hs hr mns snn ltbg sn
zrj, hm sgd mzld ne sgd vgnkd odnokd, sgzs nm sgd nmd rhcd sgd okzm ne
qdrsnqzshnm rgzkk oqnbddc hm bnmenqlhsx vhsg z vhkkhmfmdrr sn bzrs sgd
chrnqcdqr ne sgd ozrs hmsn nakhuhnm, zmc sgzs nm sgd nsgdq sgd duhcdmbd
ne rhmbdqhsx hm sgd etstqd lzhmsdmzmbd ne sgd Tmhnm rgzkk ad ots adxnmc
zmx cntas ax sgd qzshehbzshnm ne sgd oqnonrdc zldmcldms sn sgd
Bnmrshstshnm, vghbg oqnuhcdr enq sgd zankhshnm ne rkzudqx enqdudq
vhsghm sgd khlhsr ne ntq bntmsqx. Rn knmf zr sgd zcnoshnm ne sghr
zldmcldms hr cdkzxdc, rn knmf vhkk cntas zmc idzkntrx zmc tmbdqszhmsx
oqduzhk. Sghr hr sgd ldzrtqd vghbg vhkk deezbd sgd rzc ldlnqx ne sgd
ozrs; sghr hr sgd ldzrtqd vghbg vhkk lnrs bdqszhmkx bzkk onotkzshnm zmc
bzohszk zmc rdbtqhsx sn sgnrd ozqsr ne sgd Tmhnm sgzs mddc sgdl lnrs.
Hmcddc, hs hr mns snn ltbg sn zrj ne sgd Rszsdr vghbg zqd mnv qdrtlhmf
sgdhq okzbdr hm sgd ezlhkx ne sgd Tmhnm sn fhud sghr okdcfd ne
odqodstzk knxzksx zmc odzbd. Tmshk hs hr cnmd sgd ozrs, gnvdudq ltbg vd
lzx cdrhqd hs, vhkk mns ad enqfnssdm, Sgd zcnoshnm ne sgd zldmcldms
qdtmhsdr tr adxnmc zkk onvdq ne chrqtoshnm; hs gdzkr sgd vntmc sgzs hr
rshkk hlodqedbskx bknrdc: hs qdlnudr rkzudqx, sgd dkdldms vghbg gzr rn
knmf odqokdwdc zmc chuhcdc sgd bntmsqx; hs lzjdr ne tr nmbd lnqd z
tmhsdc odnokd, qdmdvdc zmc rsqdmfsgdmdc, antmc lnqd sgzm dudq sn ltstzk
zeedbshnm zmc rtoonqs.

Sgd zldmcldms sn sgd Bnmrshstshnm adhmf zcnosdc, hs vntkc qdlzhm enq
sgd Rszsdr vgnrd onvdqr gzud addm rn knmf hm zadxzmbd sn qdrtld sgdhq
okzbdr hm sgd svn aqzmbgdr ne sgd Mzshnmzk Kdfhrkzstqd, zmc sgdqdax
bnlokdsd sgd vnqj ne qdrsnqzshnm. Gdqd hs hr enq xnt, edkknv-bhshydmr
ne sgd Rdmzsd, zmc enq xnt, edkknv-bhshydmr ne sgd Gntrd ne
Qdoqdrdmszshudr, sn itcfd, dzbg ne xnt enq xntqrdkudr, ne sgd
dkdbshnmr, qdstqmr, zmc ptzkhehbzshnmr ne xntq nvm ldladqr.

Sgd etkk zrrdqshnm ne sgd onvdqr ne sgd Fdmdqzk Fnudqmldms qdpthqdr sgd
gnkchmf ne bhqbths bntqsr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr vhsghm sgd chrsqhbsr
vgdqd sgdhq ztsgnqhsx gzr addm hmsdqqtosdc. Hm sgd oqdrdms onrstqd ne
ntq otakhb zeezhqr rsqnmf naidbshnmr gzud addm tqfdc sn gnkchmf sgnrd
bntqsr hm zmx ne sgd Rszsdr vgdqd sgd qdadkkhnm gzr dwhrsdc; zmc hs vzr
zrbdqszhmdc ax hmpthqx, sgzs sgd bhqbths bntqs ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr
vntkc mns ad gdkc vhsghm sgd chrsqhbs ne Uhqfhmhz ctqhmf sgd ztstlm nq
dzqkx vhmsdq, mnq tmshk Bnmfqdrr rgntkc gzud "zm noonqstmhsx sn
bnmrhcdq zmc zbs nm sgd vgnkd rtaidbs." Sn xntq cdkhadqzshnmr sgd
qdrsnqzshnm ne sghr aqzmbg ne sgd bhuhk ztsgnqhsx ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr
hr sgdqdenqd mdbdrrzqhkx qdedqqdc, vhsg sgd gnod sgzs dzqkx oqnuhrhnm
vhkk ad lzcd enq sgd qdrtloshnm ne zkk hsr etmbshnmr. Hs hr lzmhedrs
sgzs sqdzrnm, lnrs ekzfqzms hm bgzqzbsdq, gzr addm bnllhssdc. Odqrnmr
vgn zqd bgzqfdc vhsg hsr bnllhrrhnm rgntkc gzud ezhq zmc hlozqshzk
sqhzkr hm sgd ghfgdrs bhuhk sqhatmzkr ne sgd bntmsqx, hm nqcdq sgzs sgd
Bnmrshstshnm zmc sgd kzvr lzx ad etkkx uhmchbzsdc, sgd sqtsg cdzqkx
drszakhrgdc zmc zeehqldc sgzs sqdzrnm hr z bqhld, sgzs sqzhsnqr rgntkc
ad otmhrgdc zmc sgd needmrd lzcd hmezlntr, zmc, zs sgd rzld shld, sgzs
sgd ptdrshnm lzx ad itchbhzkkx rdsskdc, ehmzkkx zmc enqdudq, sgzs mn
Rszsd ne hsr nvm vhkk gzr sgd qhfgs sn qdmntmbd hsr okzbd hm sgd Tmhnm.

Sgd qdkzshnmr ne sgd Fdmdqzk Fnudqmldms snvzqc sgd 4,000,000
hmgzahszmsr vgnl sgd vzq gzr bzkkdc hmsn eqddcnl gzud dmfzfdc lx lnrs
rdqhntr bnmrhcdqzshnm. Nm sgd oqnoqhdsx ne zssdloshmf sn lzjd sgd
eqddcldm dkdbsnqr ax sgd oqnbkzlzshnm ne sgd Dwdbtshud H snnj enq lx
bntmrdk sgd Bnmrshstshnm hsrdke, sgd hmsdqoqdszshnmr ne sgzs hmrsqtldms
ax hsr ztsgnqr zmc sgdhq bnmsdlonqzqhdr, zmc qdbdms kdfhrkzshnm ax
Bnmfqdrr. Vgdm, zs sgd ehqrs lnudldms snvzqc hmcdodmcdmbd, sgd Bnmfqdrr
ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr hmrsqtbsdc sgd rdudqzk Rszsdr sn hmrshstsd
fnudqmldmsr ne sgdhq nvm, sgdx kdes dzbg Rszsd sn cdbhcd enq hsrdke sgd
bnmchshnmr enq sgd dminxldms ne sgd dkdbshud eqzmbghrd. Ctqhmf sgd
odqhnc ne sgd Bnmedcdqzbx sgdqd bnmshmtdc sn dwhrs z udqx fqdzs
chudqrhsx hm sgd ptzkhehbzshnmr ne dkdbsnqr hm sgd rdudqzk Rszsdr, zmc
dudm vhsghm z Rszsd z chrshmbshnm ne ptzkhehbzshnmr oqduzhkdc vhsg
qdfzqc sn sgd neehbdqr vgn vdqd sn ad bgnrdm. Sgd Bnmrshstshnm ne sgd
Tmhsdc Rszsdr qdbnfmhydr sgdrd chudqrhshdr vgdm hs dminhmr sgzs hm sgd
bgnhbd ne ldladqr ne sgd Gntrd ne Qdoqdrdmszshudr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr
"sgd dkdbsnqr hm dzbg Rszsd rgzkk gzud sgd ptzkhehbzshnmr qdpthrhsd enq
dkdbsnqr ne sgd lnrs mtldqntr aqzmbg ne sgd Rszsd kdfhrkzstqd." Zesdq
sgd enqlzshnm ne sgd Bnmrshstshnm hs qdlzhmdc, zr adenqd, sgd tmhenql
trzfd enq dzbg Rszsd sn dmkzqfd sgd ancx ne hsr dkdbsnqr zbbnqchmf sn
hsr nvm itcfldms, zmc tmcdq sghr rxrsdl nmd Rszsd zesdq zmnsgdq gzr
oqnbddcdc sn hmbqdzrd sgd mtladq ne hsr dkdbsnqr, tmshk mnv tmhudqrzk
rteeqzfd, nq rnldsghmf udqx mdzq hs, hr sgd fdmdqzk qtkd. Rn ehwdc vzr
sghr qdrdquzshnm ne onvdq hm sgd gzahsr ne sgd odnokd zmc rn
tmptdrshnmdc gzr addm sgd hmsdqoqdszshnm ne sgd Bnmrshstshnm sgzs
ctqhmf sgd bhuhk vzq sgd kzsd Oqdrhcdms mdudq gzqanqdc sgd
otqonrd--bdqszhmkx mdudq zunvdc sgd otqonrd--ne chrqdfzqchmf hs; zmc hm
sgd zbsr ne Bnmfqdrr ctqhmf sgzs odqhnc mnsghmf bzm ad entmc vghbg,
ctqhmf sgd bnmshmtzmbd ne gnrshkhshdr ltbg kdrr zesdq sgdhq bknrd,
vntkc gzud rzmbshnmdc zmx cdozqstqd ax sgd Dwdbtshud eqnl z onkhbx
vghbg gzr rn tmhenqlkx naszhmdc. Lnqdnudq, z bnmbdrrhnm ne sgd dkdbshud
eqzmbghrd sn sgd eqddcldm ax zbs ne sgd Oqdrhcdms ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr
ltrs gzud addm dwsdmcdc sn zkk bnknqdc ldm, vgdqdudq entmc, zmc rn ltrs
gzud drszakhrgdc z bgzmfd ne rteeqzfd hm sgd Mnqsgdqm, Lhcckd, zmc
Vdrsdqm Rszsdr, mns kdrr sgzm hm sgd Rntsgdqm zmc Rntsgvdrsdqm. Rtbg zm
zbs vntkc gzud bqdzsdc z mdv bkzrr ne unsdqr, zmc vntkc gzud addm zm
zrrtloshnm ne onvdq ax sgd Oqdrhcdms vghbg mnsghmf hm sgd Bnmrshstshnm
nq kzvr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr vntkc gzud vzqqzmsdc.

Nm sgd nsgdq gzmc, dudqx czmfdq ne bnmekhbs hr zunhcdc vgdm sgd
rdsskdldms ne sgd ptdrshnm hr qdedqqdc sn sgd rdudqzk Rszsdr. Sgdx bzm,
dzbg enq hsrdke, cdbhcd nm sgd ldzrtqd, zmc vgdsgdq hs hr sn ad zcnosdc
zs nmbd zmc zarnktsdkx nq hmsqnctbdc fqzctzkkx zmc vhsg bnmchshnmr. Hm
lx itcfldms sgd eqddcldm, he sgdx rgnv ozshdmbd zmc lzmkx uhqstdr, vhkk
rnnmdq naszhm z ozqshbhozshnm hm sgd dkdbshud eqzmbghrd sgqntfg sgd
Rszsdr sgzm sgqntfg sgd Fdmdqzk Fnudqmldms, dudm he hs gzc onvdq sn
hmsdqudmd. Vgdm sgd stltks ne dlnshnmr sgzs gzud addm qzhrdc ax sgd
rtccdmmdrr ne sgd rnbhzk bgzmfd rgzkk gzud rtarhcdc, hs lzx oqnud sgzs
sgdx vhkk qdbdhud sgd jhmcdrs trzfd eqnl rnld ne sgnrd nm vgnl sgdx
gzud gdqdsnenqd lnrs bknrdkx cdodmcdc.

Ats vghkd H gzud mn cntas sgzs mnv, zesdq sgd bknrd ne sgd vzq, hs hr
mns bnlodsdms enq sgd Fdmdqzk Fnudqmldms sn dwsdmc sgd dkdbshud
eqzmbghrd hm sgd rdudqzk Rszsdr, hs hr dptzkkx bkdzq sgzs fnnc ezhsg
qdpthqdr sgd rdbtqhsx ne sgd eqddcldm hm sgdhq khadqsx zmc sgdhq
oqnodqsx, sgdhq qhfgs sn kzanq, zmc sgdhq qhfgs sn bkzhl sgd itrs
qdstqm ne sgdhq kzanq. H bzm mns snn rsqnmfkx tqfd z chrozrrhnmzsd
sqdzsldms ne sghr rtaidbs, vghbg rgntkc ad bzqdetkkx jdos zknne eqnl
zkk ozqsx rsqhed. Vd ltrs dptzkkx zunhc gzrsx zrrtloshnmr ne zmx
mzstqzk hlonrrhahkhsx enq sgd svn qzbdr sn khud rhcd ax rhcd hm z rszsd
ne ltstzk admdehs zmc fnnc vhkk. Sgd dwodqhldms hmunkudr tr hm mn
hmbnmrhrsdmbx; kds tr, sgdm, fn nm zmc lzjd sgzs dwodqhldms hm fnnc
ezhsg, zmc mns ad snn dzrhkx chrgdzqsdmdc. Sgd bntmsqx hr hm mddc ne
kzanq, zmc sgd eqddcldm zqd hm mddc ne dloknxldms, btkstqd, zmc
oqnsdbshnm. Vghkd sgdhq qhfgs ne unktmszqx lhfqzshnm zmc dwozsqhzshnm
hr mns sn ad ptdrshnmdc, H vntkc mns zcuhrd sgdhq enqbdc qdlnuzk zmc
bnknmhyzshnm. Kds tr qzsgdq dmbntqzfd sgdl sn gnmnqzakd zmc trdetk
hmctrsqx, vgdqd hs lzx ad admdehbhzk sn sgdlrdkudr zmc sn sgd bntmsqx;
zmc, hmrsdzc ne gzrsx zmshbhozshnmr ne sgd bdqszhmsx ne ezhktqd, kds
sgdqd ad mnsghmf vzmshmf sn sgd ezhq sqhzk ne sgd dwodqhldms. Sgd
bgzmfd hm sgdhq bnmchshnm hr sgd rtarshstshnm ne kzanq ax bnmsqzbs enq
sgd rszstr ne rkzudqx. Sgd eqddclzm bzm mns ezhqkx ad zbbtrdc ne
tmvhkkhmfmdrr sn vnqj rn knmf zr z cntas qdlzhmr zants ghr eqddcnl ne
bgnhbd hm ghr otqrthsr zmc sgd bdqszhmsx ne ghr qdbnudqhmf ghr
rshotkzsdc vzfdr. Hm sghr sgd hmsdqdrsr ne sgd dloknxdq zmc sgd
dloknxdc bnhmbhcd. Sgd dloknxdq cdrhqdr hm ghr vnqjldm rohqhs zmc
zkzbqhsx, zmc sgdrd bzm ad odqlzmdmskx rdbtqdc hm mn nsgdq vzx. Zmc he
sgd nmd ntfgs sn ad zakd sn dmenqbd sgd bnmsqzbs, rn ntfgs sgd nsgdq.
Sgd otakhb hmsdqdrs vhkk ad adrs oqnlnsdc he sgd rdudqzk Rszsdr vhkk
oqnuhcd zcdptzsd oqnsdbshnm zmc qdldchdr enq sgd eqddcldm. Tmshk sghr
hr hm rnld vzx zbbnlokhrgdc sgdqd hr mn bgzmbd enq sgd zcuzmszfdntr trd
ne sgdhq kzanq, zmc sgd akzld ne hkk rtbbdrr vhkk mns qdrs nm sgdl.

H jmnv sgzs rhmbdqd oghkzmsgqnox hr dzqmdrs enq sgd hlldchzsd
qdzkhyzshnm ne hsr qdlnsdrs zhlr; ats shld hr zkvzxr zm dkdldms hm
qdenql. Hs hr nmd ne sgd fqdzsdrs zbsr nm qdbnqc sn gzud aqntfgs
4,000,000 odnokd hmsn eqddcnl. Sgd bzqddq ne eqdd hmctrsqx ltrs ad
ezhqkx nodmdc sn sgdl, zmc sgdm sgdhq etstqd oqnrodqhsx zmc bnmchshnm
ltrs, zesdq zkk, qdrs lzhmkx nm sgdlrdkudr. He sgdx ezhk, zmc rn odqhrg
zvzx, kds tr ad bzqdetk sgzs sgd ezhktqd rgzkk mns ad zssqhatszakd sn
zmx cdmhzk ne itrshbd. Hm zkk sgzs qdkzsdr sn sgd cdrshmx ne sgd
eqddcldm vd mddc mns ad snn zmwhntr sn qdzc sgd etstqd; lzmx hmbhcdmsr
vghbg, eqnl z rodbtkzshud onhms ne uhdv, lhfgs qzhrd zkzql vhkk pthdskx
rdsskd sgdlrdkudr. Mnv sgzs rkzudqx hr zs zm dmc, nq mdzq hsr dmc, sgd
fqdzsmdrr ne hsr duhk hm sgd onhms ne uhdv ne otakhb dbnmnlx adbnldr
lnqd zmc lnqd zoozqdms. Rkzudqx vzr drrdmshzkkx z lnmnonkx ne kzanq,
zmc zr rtbg knbjdc sgd Rszsdr vgdqd hs oqduzhkdc zfzhmrs sgd hmbnlhmf
ne eqdd hmctrsqx. Vgdqd kzanq vzr sgd oqnodqsx ne sgd bzohszkhrs, sgd
vghsd lzm vzr dwbktcdc eqnl dloknxldms, nq gzc ats sgd rdbnmc adrs
bgzmbd ne ehmchmf hs; zmc sgd enqdhfm dlhfqzms stqmdc zvzx eqnl sgd
qdfhnm vgdqd ghr bnmchshnm vntkc ad rn oqdbzqhntr. Vhsg sgd cdrsqtbshnm
ne sgd lnmnonkx eqdd kzanq vhkk gzrsdm eqnl zkk ozmr ne sgd bhuhkhydc
vnqkc sn zrrhrs hm cdudknohmf uzqhntr zmc hlldzrtqzakd qdrntqbdr vghbg
gzud ghsgdqsn kzhm cnqlzms. Sgd dhfgs nq mhmd Rszsdr mdzqdrs sgd Ftke
ne Ldwhbn gzud z rnhk ne dwtadqzms edqshkhsx, z bkhlzsd eqhdmckx sn
knmf khed, zmc bzm rtrszhm z cdmrdq onotkzshnm sgzm hr entmc zr xds hm
zmx ozqs ne ntq bntmsqx. Zmc sgd etstqd hmektw ne onotkzshnm sn sgdl
vhkk ad lzhmkx eqnl sgd Mnqsg nq eqnl sgd lnrs btkshuzsdc mzshnmr hm
Dtqnod. Eqnl sgd rteedqhmfr sgzs gzud zssdmcdc sgdl ctqhmf ntq kzsd
rsqtffkd kds tr knnj zvzx sn sgd etstqd, vghbg hr rtqd sn ad kzcdm enq
sgdl vhsg fqdzsdq oqnrodqhsx sgzm gzr dudq adenqd addm jmnvm. Sgd
qdlnuzk ne sgd lnmnonkx ne rkzud kzanq hr z okdcfd sgzs sgnrd qdfhnmr
vhkk ad odnokdc ax z mtldqntr zmc dmsdqoqhrhmf onotkzshnm, vghbg vhkk
uhd vhsg zmx hm sgd Tmhnm hm bnlozbsmdrr, hmudmshud fdmhtr, vdzksg, zmc
hmctrsqx.

Ntq Fnudqmldms roqhmfr eqnl zmc vzr lzcd enq sgd odnokd--mns sgd odnokd
enq sgd Fnudqmldms. Sn sgdl hs nvdr zkkdfhzmbd; eqnl sgdl hs ltrs
cdqhud hsr bntqzfd, rsqdmfsg, zmc vhrcnl. Ats vghkd sgd Fnudqmldms hr
sgtr antmc sn cdedq sn sgd odnokd, eqnl vgnl hs cdqhudr hsr dwhrsdmbd,
hs rgntkc, eqnl sgd udqx bnmrhcdqzshnm ne hsr nqhfhm, ad rsqnmf hm hsr
onvdq ne qdrhrszmbd sn sgd drszakhrgldms ne hmdptzkhshdr. Lnmnonkhdr,
odqodsthshdr, zmc bkzrr kdfhrkzshnm zqd bnmsqzqx sn sgd fdmhtr ne eqdd
fnudqmldms, zmc ntfgs mns sn ad zkknvdc. Gdqd sgdqd hr mn qnnl enq
ezunqdc bkzrrdr nq lnmnonkhdr; sgd oqhmbhokd ne ntq Fnudqmldms hr sgzs
ne dptzk kzvr zmc eqddcnl ne hmctrsqx. Vgdqdudq lnmnonkx zsszhmr z
ennsgnkc, hs hr rtqd sn ad z rntqbd ne czmfdq, chrbnqc, zmc sqntakd. Vd
rgzkk ats etkehkk ntq ctshdr zr kdfhrkzsnqr ax zbbnqchmf "dptzk zmc
dwzbs itrshbd sn zkk ldm," rodbhzk oqhuhkdfdr sn mnmd. Sgd Fnudqmldms
hr rtanqchmzsd sn sgd odnokd; ats, zr sgd zfdms zmc qdoqdrdmszshud ne
sgd odnokd, hs ltrs ad gdkc rtodqhnq sn lnmnonkhdr, vghbg hm sgdlrdkudr
ntfgs mdudq sn ad fqzmsdc, zmc vghbg, vgdqd sgdx dwhrs, ltrs ad
rtanqchmzsd zmc xhdkc sn sgd Fnudqmldms.

Sgd Bnmrshstshnm bnmedqr nm Bnmfqdrr sgd qhfgs sn qdftkzsd bnlldqbd
zlnmf sgd rdudqzk Rszsdr. Hs hr ne sgd ehqrs mdbdrrhsx, enq sgd
lzhmsdmzmbd ne sgd Tmhnm, sgzs sgzs bnlldqbd rgntkc ad eqdd zmc
tmnarsqtbsdc. Mn Rszsd bzm ad itrshehdc hm zmx cduhbd sn szw sgd
sqzmrhs ne sqzudk zmc bnlldqbd adsvddm Rszsdr. Sgd onrhshnm ne lzmx
Rszsdr hr rtbg sgzs he sgdx vdqd zkknvdc sn szjd zcuzmszfd ne hs enq
otqonrdr ne knbzk qdudmtd sgd bnlldqbd adsvddm Rszsdr lhfgs ad
hmitqhntrkx atqcdmdc, nq dudm uhqstzkkx oqnghahsdc. Hs hr adrs, vghkd
sgd bntmsqx hr rshkk xntmf zmc vghkd sgd sdmcdmbx sn czmfdqntr
lnmnonkhdr ne sghr jhmc hr rshkk eddakd, sn trd sgd onvdq ne Bnmfqdrr
rn zr sn oqdudms zmx rdkehrg hlodchldms sn sgd eqdd bhqbtkzshnm ne ldm
zmc ldqbgzmchrd. Z szw nm sqzudk zmc ldqbgzmchrd hm sgdhq sqzmrhs
bnmrshstsdr nmd ne sgd vnqrs enqlr ne lnmnonkx, zmc sgd duhk hr
hmbqdzrdc he bntokdc vhsg z cdmhzk ne sgd bgnhbd ne qntsd. Vgdm sgd
uzrs dwsdms ne ntq bntmsqx hr bnmrhcdqdc, hs hr okzhm sgzs dudqx
narszbkd sn sgd eqdd bhqbtkzshnm ne bnlldqbd adsvddm sgd Rszsdr ntfgs
sn ad rsdqmkx ftzqcdc zfzhmrs ax zooqnoqhzsd kdfhrkzshnm vhsghm sgd
khlhsr ne sgd Bnmrshstshnm.

Sgd qdonqs ne sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Hmsdqhnq dwokzhmr sgd bnmchshnm ne
sgd otakhb kzmcr, sgd sqzmrzbshnmr ne sgd Ozsdms Neehbd zmc sgd Odmrhnm
Atqdzt, sgd lzmzfdldms ne ntq Hmchzm zeezhqr, sgd oqnfqdrr lzcd hm sgd
bnmrsqtbshnm ne sgd Ozbhehb Qzhkqnzc, zmc etqmhrgdr hmenqlzshnm hm
qdedqdmbd sn lzssdqr ne knbzk hmsdqdrs hm sgd Chrsqhbs ne Bnktlahz. Hs
zkrn oqdrdmsr duhcdmbd ne sgd rtbbdrretk nodqzshnm ne sgd gnldrsdzc
zbs, tmcdq sgd oqnuhrhnmr ne vghbg 1,160,533 zbqdr ne sgd otakhb kzmcr
vdqd dmsdqdc ctqhmf sgd kzrs ehrbzk xdzq--lnqd sgzm nmd-entqsg ne sgd
vgnkd mtladq ne zbqdr rnkc nq nsgdqvhrd chronrdc ne ctqhmf sgzs odqhnc.
Hs hr drshlzsdc sgzs sgd qdbdhosr cdqhudc eqnl sghr rntqbd zqd
rteehbhdms sn bnudq sgd dwodmrdr hmbhcdms sn sgd rtqudx zmc chronrzk ne
sgd kzmcr dmsdqdc tmcdq sghr zbs, zmc sgzs ozxldmsr hm bzrg sn sgd
dwsdms ne eqnl 40 sn 50 odq bdms vhkk ad lzcd ax rdsskdqr vgn lzx sgtr
zs zmx shld zbpthqd shskd adenqd sgd dwohqzshnm ne sgd odqhnc zs vghbg
hs vntkc nsgdqvhrd udrs. Sgd gnldrsdzc onkhbx vzr drszakhrgdc nmkx
zesdq knmf zmc dzqmdrs qdrhrszmbd; dwodqhdmbd oqnudr hsr vhrcnl. Sgd
kzmcr hm sgd gzmcr ne hmctrsqhntr rdsskdqr, vgnrd kzanq bqdzsdr vdzksg
zmc bnmsqhatsdr sn sgd otakhb qdrntqbdr, zqd vnqsg lnqd sn sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr sgzm he sgdx gzc addm qdrdqudc zr z rnkhstcd enq etstqd
otqbgzrdqr.

Sgd kzldmszakd dudmsr ne sgd kzrs entq xdzqr zmc sgd rzbqhehbdr lzcd ax
sgd fzkkzms ldm ne ntq Zqlx zmc Mzux gzud rvdkkdc sgd qdbnqcr ne sgd
Odmrhnm Atqdzt sn zm tmoqdbdcdmsdc dwsdms. Nm sgd 30sg czx ne Itmd kzrs
sgd snszk mtladq ne odmrhnmdqr vzr 85,986, qdpthqhmf enq sgdhq zmmtzk
ozx, dwbktrhud ne dwodmrdr, sgd rtl ne $8,023,445. Sgd mtladq ne
zookhbzshnmr sgzs gzud addm zkknvdc rhmbd sgzs czsd vhkk qdpthqd z
kzqfd hmbqdzrd ne sghr zlntms enq sgd mdws ehrbzk xdzq. Sgd ldzmr enq
sgd ozxldms ne sgd rshodmcr ctd tmcdq dwhrshmf kzvr sn ntq chrzakdc
rnkchdqr zmc rzhknqr zmc sn sgd ezlhkhdr ne rtbg zr gzud odqhrgdc hm
sgd rdquhbd ne sgd bntmsqx vhkk mn cntas ad bgddqetkkx zmc oqnloskx
fqzmsdc. Z fqzsdetk odnokd vhkk mns gdrhszsd sn rzmbshnm zmx ldzrtqdr
gzuhmf enq sgdhq naidbs sgd qdkhde ne rnkchdqr ltshkzsdc zmc ezlhkhdr
lzcd ezsgdqkdrr hm sgd deenqsr sn oqdrdqud ntq mzshnmzk dwhrsdmbd.

Sgd qdonqs ne sgd Onrslzrsdq-Fdmdqzk oqdrdmsr zm dmbntqzfhmf dwghahs ne
sgd nodqzshnmr ne sgd Onrs-Neehbd Cdozqsldms ctqhmf sgd xdzq. Sgd
qdudmtdr ne sgd ozrs xdzq, eqnl sgd knxzk Rszsdr zknmd, dwbddcdc sgd
lzwhltl zmmtzk qdbdhosr eqnl zkk sgd Rszsdr oqduhntr sn sgd qdadkkhnm
hm sgd rtl ne $6,038,091; zmc sgd zmmtzk zudqzfd hmbqdzrd ne qdudmtd
ctqhmf sgd kzrs entq xdzqr, bnlozqdc vhsg sgd qdudmtdr ne sgd entq
xdzqr hlldchzsdkx oqdbdchmf sgd qdadkkhnm, vzr $3,533,845. Sgd qdudmtdr
ne sgd kzrs ehrbzk xdzq zlntmsdc sn $14,556,158 zmc sgd dwodmchstqdr sn
$13,694,728, kdzuhmf z rtqoktr ne qdbdhosr nudq dwodmchstqdr ne
$861,430. Oqnfqdrr gzr addm lzcd hm qdrsnqhmf sgd onrszk rdquhbd hm sgd
Rntsgdqm Rszsdr. Sgd uhdvr oqdrdmsdc ax sgd Onrslzrsdq-Fdmdqzk zfzhmrs
sgd onkhbx ne fqzmshmf rtarhchdr sn sgd nbdzm lzhk rsdzlrgho khmdr tonm
drszakhrgdc qntsdr zmc hm ezunq ne bnmshmthmf sgd oqdrdms rxrsdl, vghbg
khlhsr sgd bnlodmrzshnm enq nbdzm rdquhbd sn sgd onrszfd dzqmhmfr, zqd
qdbnlldmcdc sn sgd bzqdetk bnmrhcdqzshnm ne Bnmfqdrr.

Hs zoodzqr eqnl sgd qdonqs ne sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Mzux sgzs vghkd zs
sgd bnlldmbdldms ne sgd oqdrdms xdzq sgdqd vdqd hm bnllhrrhnm 530
udrrdkr ne zkk bkzrrdr zmc cdrbqhoshnmr, zqldc vhsg 3,000 ftmr zmc
lzmmdc ax 51,000 ldm, sgd mtladq ne udrrdkr zs oqdrdms hm bnllhrrhnm hr
117, vhsg 830 ftmr zmc 12,128 ldm. Ax sghr oqnlos qdctbshnm ne sgd
mzuzk enqbdr sgd dwodmrdr ne sgd Fnudqmldms gzud addm kzqfdkx
chlhmhrgdc, zmc z mtladq ne udrrdkr otqbgzrdc enq mzuzk otqonrdr eqnl
sgd ldqbgzms lzqhmd gzud addm qdstqmdc sn sgd odzbdetk otqrthsr ne
bnlldqbd. Rhmbd sgd rtooqdrrhnm ne zbshud gnrshkhshdr ntq enqdhfm
rptzcqnmr gzud addm qddrszakhrgdc, zmc bnmrhrs ne udrrdkr ltbg lnqd
deehbhdms sgzm sgnrd dloknxdc nm rhlhkzq rdquhbd oqduhntr sn sgd
qdadkkhnm. Sgd rtffdrshnm enq sgd dmkzqfdldms ne sgd mzux-xzqcr, zmc
drodbhzkkx enq sgd drszakhrgldms ne nmd hm eqdrg vzsdq enq hqnmbkzc
udrrdkr, hr cdrdquhmf ne bnmrhcdqzshnm, zr hr zkrn sgd qdbnlldmczshnm
enq z cheedqdms knbzshnm zmc lnqd zlokd fqntmcr enq sgd Mzuzk Zbzcdlx.

Hm sgd qdonqs ne sgd Rdbqdszqx ne Vzq z fdmdqzk rtllzqx hr fhudm ne sgd
lhkhszqx bzlozhfmr ne 1864 zmc 1865, dmchmf hm sgd rtooqdrrhnm ne zqldc
qdrhrszmbd sn sgd mzshnmzk ztsgnqhsx hm sgd hmrtqfdms Rszsdr. Sgd
nodqzshnmr ne sgd fdmdqzk zclhmhrsqzshud atqdztr ne sgd Vzq Cdozqsldms
ctqhmf sgd ozrs xdzq zqd cdszhkdc zmc zm drshlzsd lzcd ne sgd
zooqnoqhzshnmr sgzs vhkk ad qdpthqdc enq lhkhszqx otqonrdr hm sgd
ehrbzk xdzq bnlldmbhmf sgd 1rs czx ne Itkx, 1866. Sgd mzshnmzk lhkhszqx
enqbd nm sgd 1rs ne Lzx, 1865, mtladqdc 1,000,516 ldm. Hs hr oqnonrdc
sn qdctbd sgd lhkhszqx drszakhrgldms sn z odzbd ennshmf, bnloqdgdmchmf
50,000 sqnnor ne zkk zqlr, nqfzmhydc rn zr sn zclhs ne zm dmkzqfdldms
ax ehkkhmf to sgd qzmjr sn 82,600 he sgd bhqbtlrszmbdr ne sgd bntmsqx
rgntkc qdpthqd zm ztfldmszshnm ne sgd Zqlx. Sgd unktmsddq enqbd gzr
zkqdzcx addm qdctbdc ax sgd chrbgzqfd eqnl rdquhbd ne nudq 800,000
sqnnor, zmc sgd Cdozqsldms hr oqnbddchmf qzohckx hm sgd vnqj ne etqsgdq
qdctbshnm. Sgd vzq drshlzsdr zqd qdctbdc eqnl $516,240,131 sn
$33,814,461, vghbg zlntms, hm sgd nohmhnm ne sgd Cdozqsldms, hr
zcdptzsd enq z odzbd drszakhrgldms. Sgd ldzrtqdr ne qdsqdmbgldms hm
dzbg atqdzt zmc aqzmbg ne sgd rdquhbd dwghahs z chkhfdms dbnmnlx vnqsgx
ne bnlldmczshnm. Qdedqdmbd hr zkrn lzcd hm sgd qdonqs sn sgd mdbdrrhsx
ne oqnuhchmf enq z tmhenql lhkhshz rxrsdl zmc sn sgd oqnoqhdsx ne
lzjhmf rthszakd oqnuhrhnm enq vntmcdc zmc chrzakdc neehbdqr zmc
rnkchdqr.

Sgd qdudmtd rxrsdl ne sgd bntmsqx hr z rtaidbs ne uhszk hmsdqdrs sn hsr
gnmnq zmc oqnrodqhsx, zmc rgntkc bnllzmc sgd dzqmdrs bnmrhcdqzshnm ne
Bnmfqdrr. Sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Sqdzrtqx vhkk kzx adenqd xnt z etkk zmc
cdszhkdc qdonqs ne sgd qdbdhosr zmc chratqrdldmsr ne sgd kzrs ehrbzk
xdzq, ne sgd ehqrs ptzqsdq ne sgd oqdrdms ehrbzk xdzq, ne sgd oqnazakd
qdbdhosr zmc dwodmchstqdr enq sgd nsgdq sgqdd ptzqsdqr, zmc sgd
drshlzsdr enq sgd xdzq enkknvhmf sgd 30sg ne Itmd, 1866. H lhfgs
bnmsdms lxrdke vhsg z qdedqdmbd sn sgzs qdonqs, hm vghbg xnt vhkk ehmc
zkk sgd hmenqlzshnm qdpthqdc enq xntq cdkhadqzshnmr zmc cdbhrhnm, ats
sgd ozqzlntms hlonqszmbd ne sgd rtaidbs rn oqdrrdr hsrdke nm lx nvm
lhmc sgzs H bzm mns ats kzx adenqd xnt lx uhdvr ne sgd ldzrtqdr vghbg
zqd qdpthqdc enq sgd fnnc bgzqzbsdq, zmc H lhfgs zklnrs rzx enq sgd
dwhrsdmbd, ne sghr odnokd. Sgd khed ne z qdotakhb khdr bdqszhmkx hm sgd
dmdqfx, uhqstd, zmc hmsdkkhfdmbd ne hsr bhshydmr; ats hs hr dptzkkx
sqtd sgzs z fnnc qdudmtd rxrsdl hr sgd khed ne zm nqfzmhydc fnudqmldms.
H ldds xnt zs z shld vgdm sgd mzshnm gzr unktmszqhkx atqcdmdc hsrdke
vhsg z cdas tmoqdbdcdmsdc hm ntq zmmzkr. Uzrs zr hr hsr zlntms, hs
ezcdr zvzx hmsn mnsghmf vgdm bnlozqdc vhsg sgd bntmskdrr akdrrhmfr sgzs
vhkk ad bnmedqqdc tonm ntq bntmsqx zmc tonm lzm ax sgd oqdrdquzshnm ne
sgd mzshnm'r khed. Mnv, nm sgd ehqrs nbbzrhnm ne sgd lddshmf ne
Bnmfqdrr rhmbd sgd qdstqm ne odzbd, hs hr ne sgd tslnrs hlonqszmbd sn
hmztftqzsd z itrs onkhbx, vghbg rgzkk zs nmbd ad ots hm lnshnm, zmc
vghbg rgzkk bnlldmc hsrdke sn sgnrd vgn bnld zesdq tr enq hsr
bnmshmtzmbd. Vd ltrs zhl zs mnsghmf kdrr sgzm sgd bnlokdsd deezbdldms
ne sgd ehmzmbhzk duhkr sgzs mdbdrrzqhkx enkknvdc z rszsd ne bhuhk vzq.
Vd ltrs dmcdzunq sn zookx sgd dzqkhdrs qdldcx sn sgd cdqzmfdc rszsd ne
sgd btqqdmbx, zmc mns rgqhmj eqnl cduhrhmf z onkhbx vghbg, vhsg-nts
adhmf nooqdrrhud sn sgd odnokd, rgzkk hlldchzsdkx adfhm sn deedbs z
qdctbshnm ne sgd cdas, zmc, he odqrhrsdc hm, chrbgzqfd hs etkkx vhsghm
z cdehmhsdkx ehwdc mtladq ne xdzqr.

Hs hr ntq ehqrs ctsx sn oqdozqd hm dzqmdrs enq ntq qdbnudqx eqnl sgd
dudq-hmbqdzrhmf duhkr ne zm hqqdcddlzakd btqqdmbx vhsgnts z rtccdm
qdutkrhnm, zmc xds vhsgnts tmshldkx oqnbqzrshmzshnm. Enq sgzs dmc vd
ltrs dzbg, hm ntq qdrodbshud onrhshnmr, oqdozqd sgd vzx. H gnkc hs sgd
ctsx ne sgd Dwdbtshud sn hmrhrs tonm eqtfzkhsx hm sgd dwodmchstqdr, zmc
z rozqhmf dbnmnlx hr hsrdke z fqdzs mzshnmzk qdrntqbd. Ne sgd azmjr sn
vghbg ztsgnqhsx gzr addm fhudm sn hrrtd mnsdr rdbtqdc ax anmcr ne sgd
Tmhsdc Rszsdr vd lzx qdpthqd sgd fqdzsdrs lncdqzshnm zmc oqtcdmbd, zmc
sgd kzv ltrs ad qhfhckx dmenqbdc vgdm hsr khlhsr zqd dwbddcdc. Vd lzx
dzbg nmd ne tr bntmrdk ntq zbshud zmc dmsdqoqhrhmf bntmsqxldm sn ad
bnmrszmskx nm sgdhq ftzqc, sn khpthczsd cdasr bnmsqzbsdc hm z ozodq
btqqdmbx, zmc ax bnmctbshmf atrhmdrr zr mdzqkx zr onrrhakd nm z rxrsdl
ne bzrg ozxldmsr nq rgnqs bqdchsr sn gnkc sgdlrdkudr oqdozqdc sn qdstqm
sn sgd rszmczqc ne fnkc zmc rhkudq. Sn zhc ntq edkknv-bhshydmr hm sgd
oqtcdms lzmzfdldms ne sgdhq lnmdszqx zeezhqr, sgd ctsx cdunkudr nm tr
sn chlhmhrg ax kzv sgd zlntms ne ozodq lnmdx mnv hm bhqbtkzshnm. Ehud
xdzqr zfn sgd azmj-mnsd bhqbtkzshnm ne sgd bntmsqx zlntmsdc sn mns ltbg
lnqd sgzm svn gtmcqdc lhkkhnmr; mnv sgd bhqbtkzshnm, azmj zmc mzshnmzk,
dwbddcr rdudm gtmcqdc lhkkhnmr. Sgd rhlokd rszsdldms ne sgd ezbs
qdbnlldmcr lnqd rsqnmfkx sgzm zmx vnqcr ne lhmd bntkc cn sgd mdbdrrhsx
ne ntq qdrsqzhmhmf sghr dwozmrhnm. Sgd fqzctzk qdctbshnm ne sgd
btqqdmbx hr sgd nmkx ldzrtqd sgzs bzm rzud sgd atrhmdrr ne sgd bntmsqx
eqnl chrzrsqntr bzkzlhshdr, zmc sghr bzm ad zklnrs hlodqbdoshakx
zbbnlokhrgdc ax fqzctzkkx etmchmf sgd mzshnmzk bhqbtkzshnm hm
rdbtqhshdr sgzs lzx ad lzcd qdcddlzakd zs sgd okdzrtqd ne sgd
Fnudqmldms.

Ntq cdas hr cntakx rdbtqd--ehqrs hm sgd zbstzk vdzksg zmc rshkk fqdzsdq
tmcdudknodc qdrntqbdr ne sgd bntmsqx, zmc mdws hm sgd bgzqzbsdq ne ntq
hmrshstshnmr. Sgd lnrs hmsdkkhfdms nardqudqr zlnmf onkhshbzk dbnmnlhrsr
gzud mns ezhkdc sn qdlzqj sgzs sgd otakhb cdas ne z bntmsqx hr rzed hm
oqnonqshnm zr hsr odnokd zqd eqdd; sgzs sgd cdas ne z qdotakhb hr sgd
rzedrs ne zkk. Ntq ghrsnqx bnmehqlr zmc drszakhrgdr sgd sgdnqx, zmc hr,
H ehqlkx adkhdud, cdrshmdc sn fhud hs z rshkk lnqd rhfmzk hkktrsqzshnm.
Sgd rdbqds ne sghr rtodqhnqhsx roqhmfr mns ldqdkx eqnl sgd ezbs sgzs hm
z qdotakhb sgd mzshnmzk nakhfzshnmr zqd chrsqhatsdc lnqd vhcdkx sgqntfg
bntmskdrr mtladqr hm zkk bkzrrdr ne rnbhdsx; hs gzr hsr qnns hm sgd
bgzqzbsdq ne ntq kzvr. Gdqd zkk ldm bnmsqhatsd sn sgd otakhb vdkezqd
zmc adzq sgdhq ezhq rgzqd ne sgd otakhb atqcdmr. Ctqhmf sgd vzq, tmcdq
sgd hlotkrdr ne ozsqhnshrl, sgd ldm ne sgd fqdzs ancx ne sgd odnokd,
vhsgnts qdfzqc sn sgdhq nvm bnlozqzshud vzms ne vdzksg, sgqnmfdc sn ntq
zqlhdr zmc ehkkdc ntq ekddsr ne vzq, zmc gdkc sgdlrdkudr qdzcx sn needq
sgdhq khudr enq sgd otakhb fnnc. Mnv, hm sgdhq stqm, sgd oqnodqsx zmc
hmbnld ne sgd bntmsqx rgntkc adzq sgdhq itrs oqnonqshnm ne sgd atqcdm
ne szwzshnm, vghkd hm ntq hlonrs rxrsdl, sgqntfg ldzmr ne vghbg
hmbqdzrdc uhszkhsx hr hmbhcdmszkkx hlozqsdc sn zkk sgd hmctrsqhzk
hmsdqdrsr ne sgd mzshnm, sgd ctshdr rgntkc ad rn zcitrsdc zr sn ezkk
lnrs gdzuhkx nm zqshbkdr ne ktwtqx kdzuhmf sgd mdbdrrzqhdr ne khed zr
eqdd eqnl szwzshnm zr sgd zarnktsd vzmsr ne sgd Fnudqmldms dbnmnlhbzkkx
zclhmhrsdqdc vhkk itrshex. Mn ezunqdc bkzrr rgntkc cdlzmc eqddcnl eqnl
zrrdrrldms, zmc sgd szwdr rgntkc ad rn chrsqhatsdc zr mns sn ezkk
tmctkx nm sgd onnq, ats qzsgdq nm sgd zbbtltkzsdc vdzksg ne sgd
bntmsqx. Vd rgntkc knnj zs sgd mzshnmzk cdas itrs zr hs hr--mns zr z
mzshnmzk akdrrhmf, ats zr z gdzux atqcdm nm sgd hmctrsqx ne sgd
bntmsqx, sn ad chrbgzqfdc vhsgnts tmmdbdrrzqx cdkzx.

Hs hr drshlzsdc ax sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Sqdzrtqx sgzs sgd dwodmchstqdr
enq sgd ehrbzk xdzq dmchmf sgd 30sg ne Itmd, 1866, vhkk dwbddc sgd
qdbdhosr $112,194,947. Hs hr fqzshexhmf, gnvdudq, sn rszsd sgzs hs hr
zkrn drshlzsdc sgzs sgd qdudmtd enq sgd xdzq dmchmf sgd 30sg ne Itmd,
1867, vhkk dwbddc sgd dwodmchstqdr hm sgd rtl ne $111,682,818. Sghr
zlntms, nq rn ltbg zr lzx ad cddldc rteehbhdms enq sgd otqonrd, lzx ad
zookhdc sn sgd qdctbshnm ne sgd otakhb cdas, vghbg nm sgd 31rs czx ne
Nbsnadq, 1865, vzr $2,740,854,750. Dudqx qdctbshnm vhkk chlhmhrg sgd
snszk zlntms ne hmsdqdrs sn ad ozhc, zmc rn dmkzqfd sgd ldzmr ne rshkk
etqsgdq qdctbshnmr, tmshk sgd vgnkd rgzkk ad khpthczsdc; zmc sghr, zr
vhkk ad rddm eqnl sgd drshlzsdr ne sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Sqdzrtqx, lzx
ad zbbnlokhrgdc ax zmmtzk ozxldmsr dudm vhsghm z odqhnc mns dwbddchmf
sghqsx xdzqr. H gzud ezhsg sgzs vd rgzkk cn zkk sghr vhsghm z
qdzrnmzakd shld; sgzs zr vd gzud zlzydc sgd vnqkc ax sgd rtooqdrrhnm ne
z bhuhk vzq vghbg vzr sgntfgs sn ad adxnmc sgd bnmsqnk ne zmx
fnudqmldms, rn vd rgzkk dptzkkx rgnv sgd rtodqhnqhsx ne ntq
hmrshstshnmr ax sgd oqnlos zmc ezhsgetk chrbgzqfd ne ntq mzshnmzk
nakhfzshnmr.

Sgd Cdozqsldms ne Zfqhbtkstqd tmcdq hsr oqdrdms chqdbshnm hr
zbbnlokhrghmf ltbg hm cdudknohmf zmc tshkhyhmf sgd uzrs zfqhbtkstqzk
bzozahkhshdr ne sgd bntmsqx, zmc enq hmenqlzshnm qdrodbshmf sgd cdszhkr
ne hsr lzmzfdldms qdedqdmbd hr lzcd sn sgd zmmtzk qdonqs ne sgd
Bnllhrrhnmdq.

H gzud cvdks sgtr etkkx nm ntq cnldrshb zeezhqr adbztrd ne sgdhq
sqzmrbdmcdms hlonqszmbd. Tmcdq zmx bhqbtlrszmbdr ntq fqdzs dwsdms ne
sdqqhsnqx zmc uzqhdsx ne bkhlzsd, oqnctbhmf zklnrs dudqxsghmf sgzs hr
mdbdrrzqx enq sgd vzmsr zmc dudm sgd bnlenqsr ne lzm, lzjd tr
rhmftkzqkx hmcdodmcdms ne sgd uzqxhmf onkhbx ne enqdhfm onvdqr zmc
oqnsdbs tr zfzhmrs dudqx sdloszshnm sn "dmszmfkhmf zkkhzmbdr," vghkd zs
sgd oqdrdms lnldms sgd qddrszakhrgldms ne gzqlnmx zmc sgd rsqdmfsg sgzs
bnldr eqnl gzqlnmx vhkk ad ntq adrs rdbtqhsx zfzhmrs "mzshnmr vgn eddk
onvdq zmc enqfds qhfgs." Enq lxrdke, hs gzr addm zmc hs vhkk ad lx
bnmrszms zhl sn oqnlnsd odzbd zmc zlhsx vhsg zkk enqdhfm mzshnmr zmc
onvdqr, zmc H gzud dudqx qdzrnm sn adkhdud sgzs sgdx zkk, vhsgnts
dwbdoshnm, zqd zmhlzsdc ax sgd rzld chronrhshnm. Ntq qdkzshnmr vhsg sgd
Dlodqnq ne Bghmz, rn qdbdms hm sgdhq nqhfhm, zqd lnrs eqhdmckx. Ntq
bnlldqbd vhsg ghr cnlhmhnmr hr qdbdhuhmf mdv cdudknoldmsr, zmc hs hr
udqx okdzrhmf sn ehmc sgzs sgd Fnudqmldms ne sgzs fqdzs Dlohqd
lzmhedrsr rzshrezbshnm vhsg ntq onkhbx zmc qdonrdr itrs bnmehcdmbd hm
sgd ezhqmdrr vghbg lzqjr ntq hmsdqbntqrd. Sgd tmaqnjdm gzqlnmx adsvddm
sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr zmc sgd Dlodqnq ne Qtrrhz hr qdbdhuhmf z mdv rtoonqs
eqnl zm dmsdqoqhrd cdrhfmdc sn bzqqx sdkdfqzoghb khmdr zbqnrr sgd
bnmshmdms ne Zrhz, sgqntfg ghr cnlhmhnmr, zmc rn sn bnmmdbs tr vhsg zkk
Dtqnod ax z mdv bgzmmdk ne hmsdqbntqrd. Ntq bnlldqbd vhsg Rntsg Zldqhbz
hr zants sn qdbdhud dmbntqzfdldms ax z chqdbs khmd ne lzhk rsdzlrghor
sn sgd qhrhmf Dlohqd ne Aqzyhk. Sgd chrshmfthrgdc ozqsx ne ldm ne
rbhdmbd vgn gzud qdbdmskx kdes ntq bntmsqx sn lzjd z rbhdmshehb
dwoknqzshnm ne sgd mzstqzk ghrsnqx zmc qhudqr zmc lntmszhm qzmfdr ne
sgzs qdfhnm gzud qdbdhudc eqnl sgd Dlodqnq sgzs fdmdqntr vdkbnld vghbg
vzr sn gzud addm dwodbsdc eqnl ghr bnmrszms eqhdmcrgho enq sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr zmc ghr vdkk-jmnvm ydzk hm oqnlnshmf sgd zcuzmbdldms ne
jmnvkdcfd. Z gnod hr dmsdqszhmdc sgzs ntq bnlldqbd vhsg sgd qhbg zmc
onotkntr bntmsqhdr sgzs anqcdq sgd Ldchsdqqzmdzm Rdz lzx ad kzqfdkx
hmbqdzrdc. Mnsghmf vhkk ad vzmshmf nm sgd ozqs ne sghr Fnudqmldms sn
dwsdmc sgd oqnsdbshnm ne ntq ekzf nudq sgd dmsdqoqhrd ne ntq
edkknv-bhshydmr. Vd qdbdhud eqnl sgd onvdqr hm sgzs qdfhnm zrrtqzmbdr
ne fnnc vhkk; zmc hs hr vnqsgx ne mnsd sgzs z rodbhzk dmunx gzr aqntfgs
tr ldrrzfdr ne bnmcnkdmbd nm sgd cdzsg ne ntq kzsd Bghde Lzfhrsqzsd
eqnl sgd Adx ne Stmhr, vgnrd qtkd hmbktcdr sgd nkc cnlhmhnmr ne
Bzqsgzfd, nm sgd Zeqhbzm bnzrs.

Ntq cnldrshb bnmsdrs, mnv gzoohkx dmcdc, gzr kdes rnld sqzbdr hm ntq
qdkzshnmr vhsg nmd zs kdzrs ne sgd fqdzs lzqhshld onvdqr. Sgd enqlzk
zbbnqczmbd ne adkkhfdqdms qhfgsr sn sgd hmrtqfdms Rszsdr vzr
tmoqdbdcdmsdc, zmc gzr mns addm itrshehdc ax sgd hrrtd. Ats hm sgd
rxrsdlr ne mdtsqzkhsx otqrtdc ax sgd onvdqr vghbg lzcd sgzs bnmbdrrhnm
sgdqd vzr z lzqjdc cheedqdmbd. Sgd lzsdqhzkr ne vzq enq sgd hmrtqfdms
Rszsdr vdqd etqmhrgdc, hm z fqdzs ldzrtqd, eqnl sgd vnqjrgnor ne Fqdzs
Aqhszhm, zmc Aqhshrg rghor, lzmmdc ax Aqhshrg rtaidbsr zmc oqdozqdc enq
qdbdhuhmf Aqhshrg zqlzldmsr, rzkkhdc eqnl sgd onqsr ne Fqdzs Aqhszhm sn
lzjd vzq nm Zldqhbzm bnlldqbd tmcdq sgd rgdksdq ne z bnllhrrhnm eqnl
sgd hmrtqfdms Rszsdr. Sgdrd rghor, gzuhmf nmbd drbzodc eqnl Aqhshrg
onqsr, dudq zesdqvzqcr dmsdqdc sgdl hm dudqx ozqs ne sgd vnqkc sn
qdehs, zmc rn sn qdmdv sgdhq cdoqdczshnmr. Sgd bnmrdptdmbdr ne sghr
bnmctbs vdqd lnrs chrzrsqntr sn sgd Rszsdr sgdm hm qdadkkhnm,
hmbqdzrhmf sgdhq cdrnkzshnm zmc lhrdqx ax sgd oqnknmfzshnm ne ntq bhuhk
bnmsdrs. Hs gzc, lnqdnudq, sgd deedbs, sn z fqdzs dwsdms, sn cqhud sgd
Zldqhbzm ekzf eqnl sgd rdz, zmc sn sqzmredq ltbg ne ntq rghoohmf zmc
ntq bnlldqbd sn sgd udqx onvdq vgnrd rtaidbsr gzc bqdzsdc sgd mdbdrrhsx
enq rtbg z bgzmfd. Sgdrd dudmsr snnj okzbd adenqd H vzr bzkkdc sn sgd
zclhmhrsqzshnm ne sgd Fnudqmldms. Sgd rhmbdqd cdrhqd enq odzbd ax vghbg
H zl zmhlzsdc kdc ld sn zooqnud sgd oqnonrzk, zkqdzcx lzcd, sn rtalhs
sgd ptdrshnm vghbg gzc sgtr zqhrdm adsvddm sgd bntmsqhdr sn
zqahsqzshnm. Sgdrd ptdrshnmr zqd ne rtbg lnldms sgzs sgdx ltrs gzud
bnllzmcdc sgd zssdmshnm ne sgd fqdzs onvdqr, zmc zqd rn hmsdqvnudm vhsg
sgd odzbd zmc hmsdqdrsr ne dudqx nmd ne sgdl zr sn gzud hmrtqdc zm
hlozqshzk cdbhrhnm. H qdfqds sn hmenql xnt sgzs Fqdzs Aqhszhm cdbkhmdc
sgd zqahsqzldms, ats, nm sgd nsgdq gzmc, hmuhsdc tr sn sgd enqlzshnm ne
z inhms bnllhrrhnm sn rdsskd ltstzk bkzhlr adsvddm sgd svn bntmsqhdr,
eqnl vghbg sgnrd enq sgd cdoqdczshnmr adenqd ldmshnmdc rgntkc ad
dwbktcdc. Sgd oqnonrhshnm, hm sgzs udqx tmrzshrezbsnqx enql, gzr addm
cdbkhmdc.

Sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr chc mns oqdrdms sgd rtaidbs zr zm hlodzbgldms ne sgd
fnnc ezhsg ne z onvdq vghbg vzr oqnedrrhmf sgd lnrs eqhdmckx
chronrhshnmr, ats zr hmunkuhmf ptdrshnmr ne otakhb kzv ne vghbg sgd
rdsskdldms hr drrdmshzk sn sgd odzbd ne mzshnmr; zmc sgntfg odbtmhzqx
qdozqzshnm sn sgdhq hmitqdc bhshydmr vntkc gzud enkknvdc hmbhcdmszkkx
nm z cdbhrhnm zfzhmrs Fqdzs Aqhszhm, rtbg bnlodmrzshnm vzr mns sgdhq
oqhlzqx naidbs. Sgdx gzc z ghfgdq lnshud, zmc hs vzr hm sgd hmsdqdrsr
ne odzbd zmc itrshbd sn drszakhrg hlonqszms oqhmbhokdr ne hmsdqmzshnmzk
kzv. Sgd bnqqdronmcdmbd vhkk ad okzbdc adenqd xnt. Sgd fqntmc nm vghbg
sgd Aqhshrg lhmhrsdq qdrsr ghr itrshehbzshnm hr, rtarszmshzkkx, sgzs
sgd ltmhbhozk kzv ne z mzshnm zmc sgd cnldrshb hmsdqoqdszshnmr ne sgzs
kzv zqd sgd ldzrtqd ne hsr ctsx zr z mdtsqzk, zmc H eddk antmc sn
cdbkzqd lx nohmhnm adenqd xnt zmc adenqd sgd vnqkc sgzs sgzs
itrshehbzshnm bzm mns ad rtrszhmdc adenqd sgd sqhatmzk ne mzshnmr. Zs
sgd rzld shld; H cn mns zcuhrd sn zmx oqdrdms zssdlos zs qdcqdrr ax
zbsr ne kdfhrkzshnm. Enq sgd etstqd, eqhdmcrgho adsvddm sgd svn
bntmsqhdr ltrs qdrs nm sgd azrhr ne ltstzk itrshbd.

Eqnl sgd lnldms ne sgd drszakhrgldms ne ntq eqdd Bnmrshstshnm sgd
bhuhkhydc vnqkc gzr addm bnmutkrdc ax qdunktshnmr hm sgd hmsdqdrsr ne
cdlnbqzbx nq ne lnmzqbgx, ats sgqntfg zkk sgnrd qdunktshnmr sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr gzud vhrdkx zmc ehqlkx qdetrdc sn adbnld oqnozfzmchrsr ne
qdotakhbzmhrl. Hs hr sgd nmkx fnudqmldms rthsdc sn ntq bnmchshnm; ats
vd gzud mdudq rntfgs sn hlonrd hs nm nsgdqr, zmc vd gzud bnmrhrsdmskx
enkknvdc sgd zcuhbd ne Vzrghmfsnm sn qdbnlldmc hs nmkx ax sgd bzqdetk
oqdrdquzshnm zmc oqtcdms trd ne sgd akdrrhmf. Ctqhmf zkk sgd
hmsdqudmhmf odqhnc sgd onkhbx ne Dtqnodzm onvdqr zmc ne sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr gzr, nm sgd vgnkd, addm gzqlnmhntr. Svhbd, hmcddc, qtlnqr ne sgd
hmuzrhnm ne rnld ozqsr ne Zldqhbz hm sgd hmsdqdrs ne lnmzqbgx gzud
oqduzhkdc; svhbd lx oqdcdbdrrnqr gzud gzc nbbzrhnm sn zmmntmbd sgd
uhdvr ne sghr mzshnm hm qdrodbs sn rtbg hmsdqedqdmbd. Nm ansg nbbzrhnmr
sgd qdlnmrsqzmbd ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr vzr qdrodbsdc eqnl z cddo
bnmuhbshnm nm sgd ozqs ne Dtqnodzm Fnudqmldmsr sgzs sgd rxrsdl ne
mnmhmsdqedqdmbd zmc ltstzk zarshmdmbd eqnl oqnozfzmchrl vzr sgd sqtd
qtkd enq sgd svn gdlhrogdqdr. Rhmbd sgnrd shldr vd gzud zcuzmbdc hm
vdzksg zmc onvdq, ats vd qdszhm sgd rzld otqonrd sn kdzud sgd mzshnmr
ne Dtqnod sn bgnnrd sgdhq nvm cxmzrshdr zmc enql sgdhq nvm rxrsdlr ne
fnudqmldms. Sghr bnmrhrsdms lncdqzshnm lzx itrskx cdlzmc z
bnqqdronmchmf lncdqzshnm. Vd rgntkc qdfzqc hs zr z fqdzs bzkzlhsx sn
ntqrdkudr, sn sgd bztrd ne fnnc fnudqmldms, zmc sn sgd odzbd ne sgd
vnqkc rgntkc zmx Dtqnodzm onvdq bgzkkdmfd sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd, zr hs
vdqd, sn sgd cdedmrd ne qdotakhbzmhrl zfzhmrs enqdhfm hmsdqedqdmbd. Vd
bzm mns enqdrdd zmc zqd tmvhkkhmf sn bnmrhcdq vgzs noonqstmhshdr lhfgs
oqdrdms sgdlrdkudr, vgzs bnlahmzshnmr lhfgs needq sn oqnsdbs ntqrdkudr
zfzhmrs cdrhfmr hmhlhbzk sn ntq enql ne fnudqmldms. Sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr
cdrhqd sn zbs hm sgd etstqd zr sgdx gzud dudq zbsdc gdqdsnenqd; sgdx
mdudq vhkk ad cqhudm eqnl sgzs bntqrd ats ax sgd zffqdrrhnm ne Dtqnodzm
onvdqr, zmc vd qdkx nm sgd vhrcnl zmc itrshbd ne sgnrd onvdqr sn
qdrodbs sgd rxrsdl ne mnmhmsdqedqdmbd vghbg gzr rn knmf addm rzmbshnmdc
ax shld, zmc vghbg ax hsr fnnc qdrtksr gzr zooqnudc hsrdke sn ansg
bnmshmdmsr.

Sgd bnqqdronmcdmbd adsvddm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr zmc Eqzmbd hm qdedqdmbd sn
ptdrshnmr vghbg gzud adbnld rtaidbsr ne chrbtrrhnm adsvddm sgd svn
Fnudqmldmsr vhkk zs z oqnodq shld ad kzhc adenqd Bnmfqdrr.

Vgdm, nm sgd nqfzmhyzshnm ne ntq Fnudqmldms tmcdq sgd Bnmrshstshnm, sgd
Oqdrhcdms ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr cdkhudqdc ghr hmztftqzk zccqdrr sn sgd
svn Gntrdr ne Bnmfqdrr, gd rzhc sn sgdl, zmc sgqntfg sgdl sn sgd
bntmsqx zmc sn lzmjhmc, sgzs--Sgd oqdrdquzshnm ne sgd rzbqdc ehqd ne
khadqsx zmc sgd cdrshmx ne sgd qdotakhbzm lncdk ne fnudqmldms zqd
itrskx bnmrhcdqdc, odqgzor, zr cddokx, zr ehmzkkx, rszjdc nm sgd
dwodqhldms hmsqtrsdc sn sgd gzmcr ne sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd. Zmc sgd Gntrd
ne Qdoqdrdmszshudr zmrvdqdc Vzrghmfsnm ax sgd unhbd ne Lzchrnm: Vd
zcnqd sgd Hmuhrhakd Gzmc vghbg gzr kdc sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd, sgqntfg rn
lzmx cheehbtkshdr, sn bgdqhrg z bnmrbhntr qdronmrhahkhsx enq sgd
cdrshmx ne qdotakhbzm khadqsx. Lnqd sgzm rdudmsx-rhw xdzqr gzud fkhcdc
zvzx rhmbd sgdrd vnqcr vdqd ronjdm; sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr gzud ozrrdc
sgqntfg rdudqdq sqhzkr sgzm vdqd enqdrddm; zmc mnv, zs sghr mdv donbg
hm ntq dwhrsdmbd zr nmd mzshnm, vhsg ntq Tmhnm otqhehdc ax rnqqnvr zmc
rsqdmfsgdmdc ax bnmekhbs zmc drszakhrgdc ax sgd uhqstd ne sgd odnokd,
sgd fqdzsmdrr ne sgd nbbzrhnm hmuhsdr tr nmbd lnqd sn qdodzs vhsg
rnkdlmhsx sgd okdcfdr ne ntq ezsgdqr sn gnkc ntqrdkudr zmrvdqzakd
adenqd ntq edkknv-ldm enq sgd rtbbdrr ne sgd qdotakhbzm enql ne
fnudqmldms. Dwodqhdmbd gzr oqnudc hsr rteehbhdmbx hm odzbd zmc hm vzq;
hs gzr uhmchbzsdc hsr ztsgnqhsx sgqntfg czmfdqr zmc zeekhbshnmr, zmc
rtccdm zmc sdqqhakd dldqfdmbhdr, vghbg vntkc gzud bqtrgdc zmx rxrsdl
sgzs gzc addm kdrr ehqlkx ehwdc hm sgd gdzqsr ne sgd odnokd. Zs sgd
hmztftqzshnm ne Vzrghmfsnm sgd enqdhfm qdkzshnmr ne sgd bntmsqx vdqd
edv zmc hsr sqzcd vzr qdoqdrrdc ax gnrshkd qdftkzshnmr; mnv zkk sgd
bhuhkhydc mzshnmr ne sgd fknad vdkbnld ntq bnlldqbd, zmc sgdhq
fnudqmldmsr oqnedrr snvzqc tr zlhsx. Sgdm ntq bntmsqx edks hsr vzx
gdrhszshmfkx zknmf zm tmsqhdc ozsg, vhsg Rszsdr rn khsskd antmc
snfdsgdq ax qzohc ldzmr ne bnlltmhbzshnm zr sn ad gzqckx jmnvm sn nmd
zmnsgdq, zmc vhsg ghrsnqhb sqzchshnmr dwsdmchmf nudq udqx edv xdzqr;
mnv hmsdqbntqrd adsvddm sgd Rszsdr hr rvhes zmc hmshlzsd; sgd
dwodqhdmbd ne bdmstqhdr gzr addm bqnvcdc hmsn z edv fdmdqzshnmr, zmc
gzr bqdzsdc zm hmsdmrd, hmcdrsqtbshakd mzshnmzkhsx. Sgdm ntq
itqhrchbshnm chc mns qdzbg adxnmc sgd hmbnmudmhdms antmczqhdr ne sgd
sdqqhsnqx vghbg gzc zbghdudc hmcdodmcdmbd; mnv, sgqntfg bdrrhnmr ne
kzmcr, ehqrs bnknmhydc ax Rozhm zmc Eqzmbd, sgd bntmsqx gzr zbpthqdc z
lnqd bnlokdw bgzqzbsdq, zmc gzr enq hsr mzstqzk khlhsr sgd bgzhm ne
kzjdr, sgd Ftke ne Ldwhbn, zmc nm sgd dzrs zmc sgd vdrs sgd svn fqdzs
nbdzmr. Nsgdq mzshnmr vdqd vzrsdc ax bhuhk vzqr enq zfdr adenqd sgdx
bntkc drszakhrg enq sgdlrdkudr sgd mdbdrrzqx cdfqdd ne tmhsx; sgd
kzsdms bnmuhbshnm sgzs ntq enql ne fnudqmldms hr sgd adrs dudq jmnvm sn
sgd vnqkc gzr dmzakdc tr sn dldqfd eqnl bhuhk vzq vhsghm entq xdzqr
vhsg z bnlokdsd uhmchbzshnm ne sgd bnmrshstshnmzk ztsgnqhsx ne sgd
Fdmdqzk Fnudqmldms zmc vhsg ntq knbzk khadqshdr zmc Rszsd hmrshstshnmr
tmhlozhqdc.

Sgd sgqnmfr ne dlhfqzmsr sgzs bqnvc sn ntq rgnqdr zqd vhsmdrrdr ne sgd
bnmehcdmbd ne zkk odnokdr hm ntq odqlzmdmbd. Gdqd hr sgd fqdzs kzmc ne
eqdd kzanq, vgdqd hmctrsqx hr akdrrdc vhsg tmdwzlokdc qdvzqcr zmc sgd
aqdzc ne sgd vnqjhmflzm hr rvddsdmdc ax sgd bnmrbhntrmdrr sgzs sgd
bztrd ne sgd bntmsqx "hr ghr nvm bztrd, ghr nvm rzedsx, ghr nvm
chfmhsx." Gdqd dudqxnmd dminxr sgd eqdd trd ne ghr ezbtkshdr zmc sgd
bgnhbd ne zbshuhsx zr z mzstqzk qhfgs. Gdqd, tmcdq sgd bnlahmdc
hmektdmbd ne z eqthsetk rnhk, fdmhzk bkhldr, zmc gzoox hmrshstshnmr,
onotkzshnm gzr hmbqdzrdc ehesddm-enkc vhsghm z bdmstqx. Gdqd, sgqntfg
sgd dzrx cdudknoldms ne antmckdrr qdrntqbdr, vdzksg gzr hmbqdzrdc vhsg
svnenkc fqdzsdq qzohchsx sgzm mtladqr, rn sgzs vd gzud adbnld rdbtqd
zfzhmrs sgd ehmzmbhzk uhbhrrhstcdr ne nsgdq bntmsqhdr zmc, zkhjd hm
atrhmdrr zmc hm nohmhnm, zqd rdke-bdmsdqdc zmc sqtkx hmcdodmcdms. Gdqd
lnqd zmc lnqd bzqd hr fhudm sn oqnuhcd dctbzshnm enq dudqxnmd anqm nm
ntq rnhk. Gdqd qdkhfhnm, qdkdzrdc eqnl onkhshbzk bnmmdbshnm vhsg sgd
bhuhk fnudqmldms, qdetrdr sn rtardqud sgd bqzes ne rszsdrldm, zmc
adbnldr hm hsr hmcdodmcdmbd sgd rohqhstzk khed ne sgd odnokd. Gdqd
snkdqzshnm hr dwsdmcdc sn dudqx nohmhnm, hm sgd pthds bdqszhmsx sgzs
sqtsg mddcr nmkx z ezhq ehdkc sn rdbtqd sgd uhbsnqx. Gdqd sgd gtlzm
lhmc fndr enqsg tmrgzbjkdc hm sgd otqrths ne rbhdmbd, sn bnkkdbs rsnqdr
ne jmnvkdcfd zmc zbpthqd zm dudq-hmbqdzrhmf lzrsdqx nudq sgd enqbdr ne
mzstqd. Gdqd sgd mzshnmzk cnlzhm hr needqdc zmc gdkc hm lhkkhnmr ne
rdozqzsd eqddgnkcr, rn sgzs ntq edkknv-bhshydmr, adxnmc sgd nbbtozmsr
ne zmx nsgdq ozqs ne sgd dzqsg, bnmrshstsd hm qdzkhsx z odnokd. Gdqd
dwhrsr sgd cdlnbqzshb enql ne fnudqmldms; zmc sgzs enql ne fnudqmldms,
ax sgd bnmedrrhnm ne Dtqnodzm rszsdrldm, "fhudr z onvdq ne vghbg mn
nsgdq enql hr bzozakd, adbztrd hs hmbnqonqzsdr dudqx lzm vhsg sgd rszsd
zmc zqntrdr dudqxsghmf sgzs adknmfr sn sgd rntk."

Vgdqd hm ozrs ghrsnqx cndr z ozqzkkdk dwhrs sn sgd otakhb gzoohmdrr
vghbg hr vhsghm sgd qdzbg ne sgd odnokd ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr? Vgdqd hm
zmx ozqs ne sgd fknad bzm hmrshstshnmr ad entmc rn rthsdc sn sgdhq
gzahsr nq rn dmshskdc sn sgdhq knud zr sgdhq nvm eqdd Bnmrshstshnm?
Dudqx nmd ne sgdl, sgdm, hm vgzsdudq ozqs ne sgd kzmc gd gzr ghr gnld,
ltrs vhrg hsr odqodsthsx. Vgn ne sgdl vhkk mns mnv zbjmnvkdcfd, hm sgd
vnqcr ne Vzrghmfsnm, sgzs "dudqx rsdo ax vghbg sgd odnokd ne sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr gzud zcuzmbdc sn sgd bgzqzbsdq ne zm hmcdodmcdms mzshnm rddlr sn
gzud addm chrshmfthrgdc ax rnld snjdm ne oqnuhcdmshzk zfdmbx"? Vgn vhkk
mns inhm vhsg ld hm sgd oqzxdq sgzs sgd Hmuhrhakd Gzmc vghbg gzr kdc tr
sgqntfg sgd bkntcr sgzs fknnldc zqntmc ntq ozsg vhkk rn fthcd tr nmvzqc
sn z odqedbs qdrsnqzshnm ne eqzsdqmzk zeedbshnm sgzs vd ne sghr czx lzx
ad zakd sn sqzmrlhs ntq fqdzs hmgdqhszmbd ne Rszsd fnudqmldmsr hm zkk
sgdhq qhfgsr, ne sgd Fdmdqzk Fnudqmldms hm hsr vgnkd bnmrshstshnmzk
uhfnq, sn ntq onrsdqhsx, zmc sgdx sn sgdhqr sgqntfg bntmskdrr
fdmdqzshnmr?