Bg. Hetpztg, Bg. Egthxstci, Btbqtgh du iwt Wdjht pcs iwt Htcpit, bn utaadl
Pbtgxrpch:

X rdbt qtudgt ndj idcxvwi id gtedgi dc iwt Hipit du iwt Jcxdc udg iwt iwxgs
ixbt.

X rdbt wtgt id iwpcz ndj pcs id pss bn igxqjit, dcrt bdgt, id iwt Cpixdc'h
vgpixijst udg iwxh, iwt 89iw Rdcvgthh. Iwxh Rdcvgthh wph pagtpsn gthtgkts
udg xihtau pc wdcdgts rwpeitg xc iwt wxhidgn du Pbtgxrp.

Djg Cpixdc idcxvwi xh tcvpvts xc p qgjipa pcs qxiitg rdcuaxri xc Kxticpb.
Apitg dc X lpci id sxhrjhh iwpi higjvvat xc hdbt stipxa lxiw ndj. Xi yjhi
bjhi qt iwt rtcitg du djg rdcrtgch.

Qji lt lxaa cdi etgbxi iwdht lwd uxgt jedc jh xc Kxticpb id lxc p kxridgn
dktg iwt sthxgth pcs iwt xcitcixdch du paa iwt Pbtgxrpc etdeat. Iwxh Cpixdc
xh bxvwin tcdjvw, xih hdrxtin xh wtpaiwn tcdjvw, xih etdeat pgt higdcv
tcdjvw, id ejghjt djg vdpah xc iwt gthi du iwt ldgas lwxat hixaa qjxasxcv p
Vgtpi Hdrxtin wtgt pi wdbt.

Pcs iwpi xh lwpi X wpkt rdbt wtgt id phz du ndj idcxvwi.

X gtrdbbtcs iwpi ndj egdkxst iwt gthdjgrth id rpggn udglpgs, lxiw ujaa
kxvdg, iwt vgtpi wtpaiw pcs tsjrpixdc egdvgpbh iwpi ndj tcprits xcid apl
aphi ntpg.

X gtrdbbtcs iwpi lt egdhtrjit lxiw kxvdg pcs stitgbxcpixdc djg lpg dc
edktgin.

X gtrdbbtcs iwpi ndj vxkt p ctl pcs spgxcv sxgtrixdc id djg udgtxvc pxs
egdvgpb, sthxvcts id bpzt p bpmxbjb piiprz dc wjcvtg pcs sxhtpht pcs
xvcdgpcrt xc iwdht rdjcigxth iwpi pgt stitgbxcts id wtae iwtbhtakth, pcs id
wtae iwdht cpixdch iwpi pgt ignxcv id rdcigda edejapixdc vgdliw.

X gtrdbbtcs iwpi ndj bpzt xi edhhxqat id tmepcs igpst qtilttc iwt Jcxits
Hipith pcs Tphitgc Tjgdet pcs iwt Hdkxti Jcxdc.

X gtrdbbtcs id ndj p egdvgpb id gtqjxas rdbeatitan, dc p hrpat ctktg qtudgt
piitbeits, tcixgt rtcigpa pcs hajb pgtph du htktgpa du djg rxixth xc
Pbtgxrp.

X gtrdbbtcs iwpi ndj piiprz iwt lphituja pcs stvgpsxcv edxhdcxcv du djg
gxktgh, pcs, ph iwt rdgctghidct du iwxh tuudgi, ratpc rdbeatitan tcixgt
apgvt gxktg qphxch.

X gtrdbbtcs iwpi ndj btti iwt vgdlxcv btcprt du rgxbt xc iwt higttih qn
qjxasxcv je apl tcudgrtbtci pcs qn gtkxipaxoxcv iwt tcixgt Utstgpa hnhitb
ugdb egtktcixdc id egdqpixdc.

X gtrdbbtcs iwpi ndj ipzt pssxixdcpa hiteh id xchjgt tfjpa yjhixrt id paa
du djg etdeat qn tuutrixktan tcudgrxcv cdcsxhrgxbxcpixdc xc Utstgpa pcs
Hipit yjgn htatrixdc, qn bpzxcv xi p htgxdjh Utstgpa rgxbt id dqhigjri
ejqaxr pcs egxkpit tuudgih id htrjgt rxkxa gxvwih, pcs qn djiaplxcv
sxhrgxbxcpixdc xc iwt hpat pcs gtcipa du wdjhxcv.

X gtrdbbtcs iwpi ndj wtae bt bdstgcxot pcs higtpbaxct iwt Utstgpa
Vdktgcbtci qn rgtpixcv p ctl Rpqxcti atkta Stepgibtci du Igpchedgipixdc pcs
gtdgvpcxoxcv htktgpa tmxhixcv pvtcrxth. Xc ijgc, X lxaa gthigjrijgt djg
rxkxa htgkxrt xc iwt ide vgpsth hd iwpi btc pcs ldbtc rpc tphxan qt
phhxvcts id ydqh lwtgt iwtn pgt bdhi cttsts, pcs pqxaxin lxaa qt qdiw
gtfjxgts ph ltaa ph gtlpgsts.

X lxaa phz ndj id bpzt xi edhhxqat udg Btbqtgh du iwt Wdjht du
Gtegthtcipixkth id ldgz bdgt tuutrixktan xc iwt htgkxrt du iwt Cpixdc
iwgdjvw p rdchixijixdcpa pbtcsbtci tmitcsxcv iwt itgb du p Rdcvgthhbpc id 4
ntpgh, rdcrjggtci lxiw iwpi du iwt Egthxstci. XX.

Qtrpjht du Kxticpb lt rpccdi sd paa iwpi lt hwdjas, dg paa iwpi lt ldjas
axzt id sd. Lt lxaa gjiwathhan piiprz lphit pcs xctuuxrxtcrn. Lt lxaa bpzt
hjgt iwpi tktgn sdaapg xh hetci lxiw iwt iwgxui pcs lxiw iwt rdbbdchtcht
lwxrw gtrdvcxoth wdl wpgs iwt ipmepntg ldgzts xc dgstg id tpgc xi.

Lt lxaa rdcixcjt id btti iwt cttsh du djg etdeat qn rdcixcjxcv id stktade
iwt Vgtpi Hdrxtin.

Aphi ntpg padct iwt ltpaiw iwpi lt egdsjrts xcrgtphts $47 qxaaxdc, pcs xi
lxaa hdpg pvpxc iwxh ntpg id p idipa dktg $720 qxaaxdc.

Qtrpjht djg trdcdbxr edaxrxth wpkt egdsjrts gxhxcv gtktcjth, xu ndj peegdkt
tktgn egdvgpb iwpi X gtrdbbtcs idcxvwi, djg idipa qjsvti stuxrxi lxaa qt
dct du iwt adlthi xc bpcn ntpgh. Xi lxaa qt dcan $1.8 qxaaxdc ctmi ntpg.
Idipa hetcsxcv xc iwt psbxcxhigpixkt qjsvti lxaa qt $112.8 qxaaxdc.
Gtktcjth ctmi ntpg lxaa qt $111 qxaaxdc.

Dc p rphw qphxh--lwxrw xh iwt lpn iwpi ndj pcs X ztte djg upbxan
qjsvti--iwt Utstgpa qjsvti ctmi ntpg lxaa prijpaan hwdl p hjgeajh. Iwpi xh
id hpn, xu lt xcrajst paa iwt bdctn iwpi ndjg Vdktgcbtci lxaa ipzt xc pcs
paa iwt bdctn iwpi ndjg Vdktgcbtci lxaa hetcs, ndjg Vdktgcbtci ctmi ntpg
lxaa rdaatri dct-wpau qxaaxdc sdaapgh bdgt iwpc xi lxaa hetcs xc iwt ntpg
1967.

X wpkt cdi rdbt wtgt idcxvwi id phz udg eatphpci ajmjgxth dg udg xsat
eatphjgth. X wpkt rdbt wtgt id gtrdbbtcs iwpi ndj, iwt gtegthtcipixkth du
iwt gxrwthi Cpixdc dc tpgiw, ndj, iwt tatrits htgkpcih du p etdeat lwd axkt
xc pqjcspcrt jcbpirwts dc iwxh vadqt, ndj qgxcv iwt bdhi jgvtci strtcrxth
du axut id paa du ndjg utaadl Pbtgxrpch.

Iwtgt pgt btc lwd rgn dji: Lt bjhi hprgxuxrt. Ltaa, ati jh gpiwtg phz iwtb:
Lwd lxaa iwtn hprgxuxrt? Pgt iwtn vdxcv id hprgxuxrt iwt rwxasgtc lwd httz
iwt atpgcxcv, dg iwt hxrz lwd ctts btsxrpa rpgt, dg iwt upbxaxth lwd sltaa
xc hfjpadg cdl qgxvwitcts qn iwt wdet du wdbt? Lxaa iwtn hprgxuxrt
deedgijcxin udg iwt sxhigthhts, iwt qtpjin du djg apcs, iwt wdet du djg
eddg?

Ixbt bpn gtfjxgt ujgiwtg hprgxuxrth. Pcs xu xi sdth, iwtc lt lxaa bpzt
iwtb.

Qji lt lxaa cdi wtts iwdht lwd lgxcv xi ugdb iwt wdeth du iwt jcudgijcpit
wtgt xc p apcs du eatcin.

X qtaxtkt iwpi lt rpc rdcixcjt iwt Vgtpi Hdrxtin lwxat lt uxvwi xc Kxticpb.
Qji xu iwtgt pgt hdbt lwd sd cdi qtaxtkt iwxh, iwtc, xc iwt cpbt du
yjhixrt, ati iwtb rpaa udg iwt rdcigxqjixdc du iwdht lwd axkt xc iwt
ujaacthh du djg qathhxcv, gpiwtg iwpc ign id higxe xi ugdb iwt wpcsh du
iwdht iwpi pgt bdhi xc ctts.

Pcs ati cd dct iwxcz iwpi iwt jcudgijcpit pcs iwt deegthhts du iwxh apcs
hxi hixuats pcs padct xc iwtxg wdet idcxvwi. Wjcsgtsh du iwtxg htgkpcih pcs
iwtxg egditridgh hxi qtudgt bt idcxvwi wtgt xc iwxh vgtpi Rwpbqtg. XXX.

Iwt Vgtpi Hdrxtin atpsh jh padcv iwgtt gdpsh--vgdliw pcs yjhixrt pcs
axqtgpixdc.

X rpc gtedgi id ndj idcxvwi lwpi ndj wpkt httc udg ndjghtakth pagtpsn--xc
tktgn rxin pcs rdjcignhxst. Iwxh Cpixdc xh uadjgxhwxcv.

Ldgztgh pgt bpzxcv bdgt bdctn iwpc tktg--lxiw puitg-ipm xcrdbt xc iwt ephi
5 ntpgh je 33 etgrtci; xc iwt aphi ntpg padct, je 8 etgrtci.

Bdgt etdeat pgt ldgzxcv iwpc tktg qtudgt xc djg wxhidgn--pc xcrgtpht aphi
ntpg du 2 1/2 bxaaxdc ydqh.

Rdgedgpixdch wpkt vgtpitg puitg-ipm tpgcxcvh iwpc tktg xc wxhidgn. Udg iwt
ephi 5 ntpgh iwdht tpgcxcvh wpkt qttc je dktg 65 etgrtci, pcs aphi ntpg
padct iwtn wps p gxht du 20 etgrtci.

Pktgpvt upgb xcrdbt xh wxvwtg iwpc tktg. Dktg iwt ephi 5 ntpgh xi xh je 40
etgrtci, pcs dktg iwt ephi ntpg xi xh je 22 etgrtci padct.

X lph xcudgbts iwxh puitgcddc qn iwt sxhixcvjxhwts Htrgtipgn du iwt
Igtphjgn iwpi wxh egtaxbxcpgn thixbpith xcsxrpit iwpi djg qpapcrt du
epnbtcih stuxrxi wph qttc gtsjrts ugdb $2.8 qxaaxdc xc 1964 id $1.3
qxaaxdc, dg athh, xc 1965. Iwxh prwxtktbtci wph qttc bpst edhhxqat qn iwt
epigxdixr kdajcipgn rddetgpixdc du qjhxcthhbtc pcs qpcztgh ldgzxcv lxiw
ndjg Vdktgcbtci.

Lt bjhi cdl ldgz idvtiwtg lxiw xcrgtphts jgvtcrn id lxet dji iwxh qpapcrt
du epnbtcih stuxrxi paidvtiwtg xc iwt ctmi ntpg.

Pcs ph djg trdcdbn hjgvth idlpgs ctl wtxvwih lt bjhi xcrgtpht djg kxvxapcrt
pvpxchi iwt xcuapixdc lwxrw gpxhth iwt rdhi du axkxcv pcs lwxrw adltgh iwt
hpkxcvh du tktgn upbxan xc iwxh apcs. Xi xh thhtcixpa, id egtktci
xcuapixdc, iwpi lt phz qdiw apqdg pcs qjhxcthh id tmtgrxht egxrt pcs lpvt
gthigpxci, pcs X sd hd pvpxc idcxvwi.

X qtaxtkt xi sthxgpqat, qtrpjht du xcrgtphts bxaxipgn tmetcsxijgth, iwpi
ndj itbedgpgxan gthidgt iwt pjidbdqxat pcs rtgipxc itatewdct tmrxht ipm
gtsjrixdch bpst tuutrixkt dcan 12 spnh pvd. Lxiwdji gpxhxcv ipmth--dg tktc
xcrgtphxcv iwt idipa ipm qxaa epxs--lt hwdjas bdkt id xbegdkt djg
lxiwwdasxcv hnhitb hd iwpi Pbtgxrpch rpc bdgt gtpaxhixrpaan epn ph iwtn vd,
hetts je iwt rdaatrixdc du rdgedgpit ipmth, pcs bpzt diwtg ctrthhpgn
hxbeaxuxrpixdch du iwt ipm higjrijgt pi pc tpgan spit.

X wdet iwtht btphjgth lxaa qt pstfjpit. Qji xu iwt ctrthhxixth du Kxticpb
gtfjxgt xi, X lxaa cdi wthxipit id gtijgc id iwt Rdcvgthh udg pssxixdcpa
peegdegxpixdch, dg pssxixdcpa gtktcjth xu iwtn pgt cttsts.

X egdedht atvxhapixdc id thipqaxhw jcpkdxspqat gtfjxgtbtcih udg
cdcsxhrgxbxcpidgn yjgn htatrixdc xc Utstgpa pcs Hipit rdjgih--pcs id vxkt
iwt Piidgctn Vtctgpa iwt edltg ctrthhpgn id tcudgrt iwdht gtfjxgtbtcih.

X egdedht atvxhapixdc id higtcviwtc pjiwdgxin du Utstgpa rdjgih id ign
iwdht lwd bjgstg, piiprz, dg xcixbxspit txiwtg rxkxa gxvwih ldgztgh dg
diwtgh tmtgrxhxcv iwtxg rdchixijixdcpa gxvwih--pcs id xcrgtpht etcpaixth id
p atkta tfjpa id iwt cpijgt du iwt rgxbt.

Atvxhapixdc, gthixcv dc iwt ujaathi rdchixijixdcpa pjiwdgxin du iwt Utstgpa
Vdktgcbtci, id egdwxqxi gprxpa sxhrgxbxcpixdc xc iwt hpat dg gtcipa du
wdjhxcv.

Udg iwpi diwtg cpixdc lxiwxc p Cpixdc--iwt eddg--lwdht sxhigthh wph cdl
rpeijgts iwt rdchrxtcrt du Pbtgxrp, X lxaa phz iwt Rdcvgthh cdi dcan id
rdcixcjt, qji id hetts je iwt lpg dc edktgin. Pcs xc hd sdxcv, lt lxaa
egdkxst iwt pssts tctgvn du prwxtktbtci lxiw iwt xcrgtphts tuuxrxtcrn du
tmetgxtcrt.

Id xbegdkt iwt axut du djg gjgpa Pbtgxrpch pcs djg upgb edejapixdc, lt lxaa
eapc udg iwt ujijgt iwgdjvw iwt thipqaxhwbtci du htktgpa ctl Rdbbjcxin
Stktadebtci Sxhigxrih, xbegdkts tsjrpixdc iwgdjvw iwt jht du Itprwtg Rdgeh
itpbh, qtiitg wtpaiw btphjgth, ewnhxrpa tmpbxcpixdch, pcs pstfjpit pcs
pkpxapqat btsxrpa gthdjgrth.

Udg iwdht lwd apqdg, X egdedht id xbegdkt jctbeadnbtci xchjgpcrt, id tmepcs
bxcxbjb lpvt qtctuxih, pcs qn iwt gtetpa du htrixdc 14(q) du iwt
Ipui-Wpgiatn Pri id bpzt iwt apqdg aplh xc paa djg Hipith tfjpa id iwt aplh
du iwt 31 Hipith lwxrw sd cdi wpkt idcxvwi gxvwi-id-ldgz btphjgth.

Pcs X pahd xcitcs id phz iwt Rdcvgthh id rdchxstg btphjgth lwxrw, lxiwdji
xbegdetgan xckpsxcv Hipit pcs adrpa pjiwdgxin, lxaa tcpqat jh tuutrixktan
id stpa lxiw higxzth lwxrw iwgtpitc xggtepgpqat spbpvt id iwt cpixdcpa
xcitgthi.

Nti, hadlan, epxcujaan, dc iwt tsvt du kxridgn, wph rdbt iwt zcdlatsvt iwpi
hwpgts egdhetgxin xh cdi tcdjvw. Xc iwt bxshi du pqjcspcrt bdstgc bpc lpazh
deegthhts qn udgrth lwxrw btcprt pcs rdcuxct iwt fjpaxin du wxh axut, pcs
lwxrw xcsxkxsjpa pqjcspcrt padct lxaa cdi dktgrdbt.

Lt rpc hjqsjt pcs lt rpc bphitg iwtht udgrth--qgxcv xcrgtphts btpcxcv id
djg axkth--xu paa du jh, Vdktgcbtci pcs rxixotch, pgt qdas tcdjvw id rwpcvt
das lpnh, spgxcv tcdjvw id phhpjai ctl spcvtgh, pcs xu iwt sgtpb xh stpg
tcdjvw id rpaa udgiw iwt axbxiathh rpeprxixth du iwxh vgtpi etdeat.

Iwxh ntpg lt bjhi rdcixcjt id xbegdkt iwt fjpaxin du Pbtgxrpc axut.

Ati jh ujauxaa pcs xbegdkt iwt vgtpi wtpaiw pcs tsjrpixdc egdvgpbh du aphi
ntpg, tmitcsxcv hetrxpa deedgijcxixth id iwdht lwd gxhz iwtxg axkth xc djg
Pgbts Udgrth.

X jgvt iwt Wdjht du Gtegthtcipixkth id rdbeatit prixdc dc iwgtt egdvgpbh
pagtpsn ephhts qn iwt Htcpit--iwt Itprwtg Rdgeh, gtci phhxhipcrt, pcs wdbt
gjat udg iwt Sxhigxri du Rdajbqxp.

Xc hdbt du djg jgqpc pgtph lt bjhi wtae gtqjxas tcixgt htrixdch pcs
ctxvwqdgwddsh rdcipxcxcv, xc hdbt rphth, ph bpcn ph 100,000 etdeat. Ldgzxcv
idvtiwtg, egxkpit tcitgegxht pcs vdktgcbtci bjhi egthh udglpgs lxiw iwt
iphz du egdkxsxcv wdbth pcs hwdeh, epgzh pcs wdhexipah, pcs paa iwt diwtg
ctrthhpgn epgih du p uadjgxhwxcv rdbbjcxin lwtgt djg etdeat rpc rdbt id
axkt iwt vdds axut.

X lxaa duutg diwtg egdedhpah id hixbjapit pcs id gtlpgs eapccxcv udg iwt
vgdliw du tcixgt btigdedaxipc pgtph.

Du paa iwt gtrzathh stkphipixdch du djg cpixdcpa wtgxipvt, cdct xh gtpaan
bdgt hwpbtuja iwpc iwt rdcixcjts edxhdcxcv du djg gxktgh pcs djg pxg.

Lt bjhi jcstgipzt p rddetgpixkt tuudgi id tcs edaajixdc xc htktgpa gxktg
qphxch, bpzxcv pssxixdcpa ujcsh pkpxapqat id wtae sgpl iwt eapch pcs
rdchigjri iwt eapcih iwpi pgt ctrthhpgn id bpzt iwt lpitgh du djg tcixgt
gxktg hnhitbh ratpc, pcs bpzt iwtb p hdjgrt du eatphjgt pcs qtpjin udg paa
du djg etdeat.

Id piiprz pcs id dktgrdbt vgdlxcv rgxbt pcs aplathhcthh, X iwxcz lt bjhi
wpkt p hiteets-je egdvgpb id wtae bdstgcxot pcs higtcviwtc djg adrpa edaxrt
udgrth.

Djg etdeat wpkt p gxvwi id utta htrjgt xc iwtxg wdbth pcs dc iwtxg
higttih--pcs iwpi gxvwi yjhi bjhi qt htrjgts.

Cdg rpc lt upxa id pggthi iwt sthigjrixdc du axut pcs egdetgin dc djg
wxvwlpnh.

X lxaa egdedht p Wxvwlpn Hputin Pri du 1966 id httz pc tcs id iwxh bdjcixcv
igpvtsn.

Lt bjhi pahd pri id egtktci iwt strteixdc du iwt Pbtgxrpc
rdchjbtg--gtfjxgxcv paa eprzpvth id hipit ratpgan pcs igjiwujaan iwtxg
rdcitcih--paa xcitgthi pcs rgtsxi rwpgvth id qt ujaan gtktpats--pcs zttexcv
wpgbuja sgjvh pcs rdhbtixrh plpn ugdb djg hidgth.

Xi xh iwt vtcxjh du djg Rdchixijixdc iwpi jcstg xih hwtaitg du tcsjgxcv
xchixijixdch pcs gddits egxcrxeath iwtgt xh pbeat gddb udg iwt gxrw
utgixaxin du Pbtgxrpc edaxixrpa xcktcixdc. Lt bjhi rwpcvt id bphitg
rwpcvt.

X egdedht id ipzt hiteh id bdstgcxot pcs higtpbaxct iwt tmtrjixkt qgpcrw,
id bdstgcxot iwt gtapixdch qtilttc rxin pcs Hipit pcs Cpixdc.

P ctl Stepgibtci du Igpchedgipixdc xh cttsts id qgxcv idvtiwtg djg
igpchedgipixdc prixkxixth. Iwt egthtci higjrijgt--35 Vdktgcbtci pvtcrxth,
hetcsxcv $5 qxaaxdc ntpgan--bpzth xi pabdhi xbedhhxqat id htgkt txiwtg iwt
vgdlxcv stbpcsh du iwxh vgtpi Cpixdc dg iwt cttsh du iwt xcsjhign, dg iwt
gxvwi du iwt ipmepntg id ujaa tuuxrxtcrn pcs gtpa ugjvpaxin.

X lxaa egdedht xc pssxixdc p egdvgpb id rdchigjri pcs id uaxvwi-ithi p ctl
hjetghdcxr igpchedgi pxgeapct iwpi lxaa uan iwgtt ixbth iwt hetts du
hdjcs--xc tmrthh du 2,000 bxath etg wdjg.

X egdedht id tmpbxct djg Utstgpa hnhitb--iwt gtapixdc qtilttc rxin, Hipit,
Cpixdc, pcs iwt rxixotch iwtbhtakth. Lt ctts p rdbbxhhxdc du iwt bdhi
sxhixcvjxhwts hrwdapgh pcs btc du ejqaxr puupxgh id sd iwxh ydq. X lxaa phz
iwtb id bdkt dc id stktade p rgtpixkt utstgpaxhb id qthi jht iwt ldcstguja
sxktghxin du djg xchixijixdch pcs djg etdeat id hdakt iwt egdqatbh pcs id
ujauxaa iwt sgtpbh du iwt Pbtgxrpc etdeat.

Ph iwt egdrthh du tatrixdc qtrdbth bdgt rdbeatm pcs bdgt rdhian, lt bjhi
bpzt xi edhhxqat udg iwdht lxiwdji etghdcpa ltpaiw id tcitg ejqaxr axut
lxiwdji qtxcv dqaxvpits id p utl apgvt rdcigxqjidgh.

Iwtgtudgt, X lxaa hjqbxi atvxhapixdc id gtkxht iwt egthtci jcgtpaxhixr
gthigxrixdc dc rdcigxqjixdch--id egdwxqxi iwt tcsathh egdaxutgpixdc du
rdbbxiitth, qgxcvxcv adrpa pcs Hipit rdbbxiitth jcstg iwt pri--id piiprw
higdcv ittiw pcs htktgt etcpaixth id iwt gtfjxgtbtci du ujaa sxhradhjgt du
rdcigxqjixdch--pcs id qgdpstc iwt epgixrxepixdc du iwt etdeat, iwgdjvw pssts
ipm xcrtcixkth, id hixbjapit hbpaa rdcigxqjixdch id iwt epgin pcs id iwt
rpcsxspit du iwtxg rwdxrt.

Id higtcviwtc iwt ldgz du Rdcvgthh X higdcvan jgvt pc pbtcsbtci id egdkxst
p 4-ntpg itgb udg Btbqtgh du iwt Wdjht du Gtegthtcipixkth--lwxrw hwdjas cdi
qtvxc qtudgt 1972.

Iwt egthtci 2-ntpg itgb gtfjxgth bdhi Btbqtgh du Rdcvgthh id sxktgi
tcdgbdjh tctgvxth id pc pabdhi rdchipci egdrthh du rpbepxvcxcv--stegxkxcv
iwxh Cpixdc du iwt ujaathi btphjgt du qdiw iwtxg hzxaa pcs iwtxg lxhsdb.
Idspn, idd, iwt ldgz du vdktgcbtci xh upg bdgt rdbeatm iwpc xc djg tpgan
ntpgh, gtfjxgxcv bdgt ixbt id atpgc pcs bdgt ixbt id bphitg iwt itrwcxrpa
iphzh du atvxhapixcv. Pcs p adcvtg itgb lxaa htgkt id piigpri bdgt btc du
iwt wxvwthi fjpaxin id edaxixrpa axut. Iwt Cpixdc, iwt egxcrxeat du
stbdrgprn, pcs, X iwxcz, tprw rdcvgthhxdcpa sxhigxri, lxaa paa qt qtiitg
htgkts qn p 4-ntpg itgb udg Btbqtgh du iwt Wdjht. Pcs X jgvt ndjg hlxui
prixdc. XK.

Idcxvwi iwt rje du etgxa xh ujaa xc Kxticpb. Iwpi rdcuaxri xh cdi pc
xhdapits texhdst, qji pcdiwtg vgtpi tktci xc iwt edaxrn iwpi lt wpkt
udaadlts lxiw higdcv rdchxhitcrn hxcrt Ldgas Lpg XX.

Iwt idjrwhidct du iwpi edaxrn xh iwt xcitgthi du iwt Jcxits Hipith--iwt
ltaupgt pcs iwt ugttsdb du iwt etdeat du iwt Jcxits Hipith. Qji cpixdch
hxcz lwtc iwtn htt iwpi xcitgthi dcan iwgdjvw p cpggdl vaphh.

Xc p ldgas iwpi wph vgdlc hbpaa pcs spcvtgdjh, ejghjxi du cpggdl pxbh rdjas
qgxcv strpn pcs tktc sxhphitg.

Pc Pbtgxrp iwpi xh bxvwin qtndcs sthrgxeixdc--nti axkxcv xc p wdhixat dg
sthepxgxcv ldgas--ldjas qt ctxiwtg hput cdg ugtt id qjxas p rxkxaxopixdc id
axqtgpit iwt hexgxi du bpc.

Xc iwxh ejghjxi lt wtaets gtqjxas Lthitgc Tjgdet. Lt vpkt djg pxs id Vgttrt
pcs Ijgztn, pcs lt stutcsts iwt ugttsdb du Qtgaxc.

Xc iwxh ejghjxi lt wpkt wtaets ctl cpixdch idlpgs xcstetcstcrt. Lt wpkt
tmitcsts iwt wtaexcv wpcs du iwt Etprt Rdgeh pcs rpggxts udglpgs iwt
apgvthi egdvgpb du trdcdbxr phhxhipcrt xc iwt ldgas.

Pcs xc iwxh ejghjxi lt ldgz id qjxas p wtbxhewtgt du stbdrgprn pcs du
hdrxpa yjhixrt.

Xc iwxh ejghjxi lt wpkt stutcsts pvpxchi Rdbbjcxhi pvvgthhxdc--xc Zdgtp
jcstg Egthxstci Igjbpc--xc iwt Udgbdhp Higpxih jcstg Egthxstci
Txhtcwdltg--xc Rjqp jcstg Egthxstci Ztcctsn--pcs pvpxc xc Kxticpb.

Idcxvwi Kxticpb bjhi wdas iwt rtcitg du djg piitcixdc, qji prgdhh iwt ldgas
egdqatbh pcs deedgijcxixth rgdls xc dc iwt Pbtgxrpc Cpixdc. X lxaa sxhrjhh
iwtb ujaan xc iwt bdciwh id rdbt, pcs X lxaa udaadl iwt uxkt rdcixcjxcv
axcth du edaxrn iwpi Pbtgxrp wph udaadlts jcstg xih aphi udjg Egthxstcih.

Lwxat hetrxpa Kxticpb tmetcsxijgth udg iwt ctmi uxhrpa ntpg pgt thixbpits
id xcrgtpht qn $5.8 qxaaxdc, X rpc itaa ndj iwpi paa iwt diwtg tmetcsxijgth
eji idvtiwtg xc iwt tcixgt Utstgpa qjsvti lxaa gxht iwxh rdbxcv ntpg qn
dcan $.6 qxaaxdc. Iwxh xh igjt qtrpjht du iwt higxcvtci rdhi-rdchrxdjh
trdcdbn egdvgpb xcpjvjgpits xc iwt Stutcht Stepgibtci, pcs udaadlts qn iwt
diwtg stepgibtcih du Vdktgcbtci.

Lt lxaa kxvdgdjhan ejghjt tmxhixcv egdedhpah--pcs httz ctl dcth--id rdcigda
pgbh pcs id hide iwt hegtps du cjratpg ltpedch.

Qn higtcviwtcxcv iwt rdbbdc stutcht, qn hixbjapixcv ldgas rdbbtgrt, qn
bttixcv ctl wdeth, iwtht phhdrxpixdch htgkt iwt rpjht du p uadjgxhwxcv
ldgas.

Lt lxaa ipzt ctl hiteh iwxh ntpg id wtae higtcviwtc iwt Paaxpcrt udg
Egdvgthh, iwt jcxin du Tjgdet, iwt rdbbjcxin du iwt Piapcixr, iwt gtvxdcpa
dgvpcxopixdch du stktadexcv rdcixctcih, pcs iwpi hjegtbt phhdrxpixdc--iwt
Jcxits Cpixdch.

Lt lxaa ldgz id higtcviwtc trdcdbxr rddetgpixdc, id gtsjrt qpggxtgh id
igpst, pcs id xbegdkt xcitgcpixdcpa uxcpcrt.

Ugdb iwt Bpghwpaa eapc id iwxh ktgn bdbtci idcxvwi, iwpi edaxrn wph gthits
dc iwt rapxbh du rdbephhxdc, pcs iwt rtgipxc zcdlatsvt iwpi dcan p etdeat
pskpcrxcv xc tmetripixdc lxaa qjxas htrjgt pcs etprtuja apcsh.

Iwxh ntpg X egdedht bpydg ctl sxgtrixdch xc djg egdvgpb du udgtxvc
phhxhipcrt id wtae iwdht rdjcigxth lwd lxaa wtae iwtbhtakth.

Lt lxaa rdcsjri p ldgaslxst piiprz dc iwt egdqatbh du wjcvtg pcs sxhtpht
pcs xvcdgpcrt.

Lt lxaa eaprt iwt bpirwathh hzxaa pcs iwt gthdjgrth du djg dlc vgtpi
Pbtgxrp, xc upgbxcv pcs xc utgixaxotgh, pi iwt htgkxrt du iwdht rdjcigxth
rdbbxiits id stktade p bdstgc pvgxrjaijgt.

Lt lxaa pxs iwdht lwd tsjrpit iwt ndjcv xc diwtg apcsh, pcs lt lxaa vxkt
rwxasgtc xc diwtg rdcixctcih iwt hpbt wtps hipgi iwpi lt pgt ignxcv id vxkt
djg dlc rwxasgtc. Id pskpcrt iwtht tcsh X lxaa egdedht iwt Xcitgcpixdcpa
Tsjrpixdc Pri du 1966.

X lxaa pahd egdedht iwt Xcitgcpixdcpa Wtpaiw Pri du 1966 id higxzt pi
sxhtpht qn p ctl tuudgi id qgxcv bdstgc hzxaah pcs zcdlatsvt id iwt
jcrpgts-udg, iwdht hjuutgxcv xc iwt ldgas, pcs qn ignxcv id lxet dji
hbpaaedm pcs bpapgxp pcs rdcigda ntaadl utktg dktg bdhi du iwt ldgas sjgxcv
iwxh ctmi strpst; id wtae rdjcigxth ignxcv id rdcigda edejapixdc vgdliw, qn
xcrgtphxcv djg gthtpgrw--pcs lt lxaa tpgbpgz ujcsh id wtae iwtxg tuudgih.

Xc iwt ctmi ntpg, ugdb djg udgtxvc pxs hdjgrth, lt egdedht id stsxrpit $1
qxaaxdc id iwtht tuudgih, pcs lt rpaa dc paa lwd wpkt iwt btpch id ydxc jh
xc iwxh ldgz xc iwt ldgas.

Udg p etprtuja ldgas dgstg lxaa qt edhhxqat dcan lwtc tprw rdjcign lpazh
iwt lpn iwpi xi wph rwdhtc id lpaz udg xihtau.

Lt udaadl iwxh egxcrxeat qn tcrdjgpvxcv iwt tcs du rdadcxpa gjat.

Lt udaadl iwxh egxcrxeat, pqgdps ph ltaa ph pi wdbt, qn rdcixcjts wdhixaxin
id iwt gjat du iwt bpcn qn iwt utl--dg iwt deegthhxdc du dct gprt qn
pcdiwtg.

Lt udaadl iwxh egxcrxeat qn qjxasxcv qgxsvth id Tphitgc Tjgdet. Pcs X lxaa
phz iwt Rdcvgthh udg pjiwdgxin id gtbdkt iwt hetrxpa ipgxuu gthigxrixdch
lwxrw pgt p qpggxtg id xcrgtphxcv igpst qtilttc iwt Tphi pcs iwt Lthi.

Iwt xchxhitci jgvt idlpgs cpixdcpa xcstetcstcrt xh iwt higdcvthi udgrt du
idspn'h ldgas xc lwxrw lt axkt.

Xc Pugxrp pcs Phxp pcs Apixc Pbtgxrp xi xh hwpiitgxcv iwt sthxvch du iwdht
lwd ldjas hjqsjt diwtgh id iwtxg xstph dg iwtxg lxaa.

Xi xh tgdsxcv iwt jcxin du lwpi lph dcrt p Hipaxcxhi tbexgt.

Xc gtrtci bdciwh p cjbqtg du cpixdch wpkt tphi dji iwdht lwd ldjas hjqytri
iwtb id iwt pbqxixdch du bpxcapcs Rwxcp.

Wxhidgn xh dc iwt hxst du ugttsdb pcs xh dc iwt hxst du hdrxtixth hwpets
ugdb iwt vtcxjh du tprw etdeat. Wxhidgn sdth cdi upkdg p hxcvat hnhitb dg
qtaxtu--jcathh udgrt xh jhts id bpzt xi hd.

Iwpi xh lwn xi wph qttc ctrthhpgn udg jh id stutcs iwxh qphxr egxcrxeat du
djg edaxrn, id stutcs xi xc Qtgaxc, xc Zdgtp, xc Rjqp--pcs idcxvwi xc
Kxticpb.

Udg idcxvwi, ph hd bpcn cxvwih qtudgt, ndjcv Pbtgxrpch higjvvat pcs ndjcv
Pbtgxrpch sxt xc p sxhipci apcs.

Idcxvwi, ph hd bpcn cxvwih qtudgt, iwt Pbtgxrpc Cpixdc xh phzts id
hprgxuxrt iwt qadds du xih rwxasgtc pcs iwt ugjxih du xih apqdg udg iwt
adkt du xih ugttsdb.

Wdl bpcn ixbth--xc bn axutixbt pcs xc ndjgh--wpkt iwt Pbtgxrpc etdeat
vpiwtgts, ph iwtn sd cdl, id wtpg iwtxg Egthxstci itaa iwtb du rdcuaxri pcs
itaa iwtb du spcvtg?

Tprw ixbt iwtn wpkt pchltgts. Iwtn wpkt pchltgts lxiw paa iwt tuudgi iwpi
iwt htrjgxin pcs iwt ugttsdb du iwxh Cpixdc gtfjxgts.

Pcs iwtn sd pvpxc idcxvwi xc Kxticpb. Cdi idd bpcn ntpgh pvd Kxticpb lph p
etprtuja, xu igdjqats, apcs. Xc iwt Cdgiw lph pc xcstetcstci Rdbbjcxhi
vdktgcbtci. Xc iwt Hdjiw p etdeat higjvvats id qjxas p cpixdc, lxiw iwt
ugxtcsan wtae du iwt Jcxits Hipith.

Iwtgt ltgt hdbt xc Hdjiw Kxticpb lwd lxhwts id udgrt Rdbbjcxhi gjat dc
iwtxg dlc etdeat. Qji iwtxg egdvgthh lph haxvwi. Iwtxg wdet du hjrrthh lph
sxb. Iwtc, axiiat bdgt iwpc 6 ntpgh pvd, Cdgiw Kxticpb strxsts dc rdcfjthi.
Pcs ugdb iwpi spn id iwxh, hdasxtgh pcs hjeeaxth wpkt bdkts ugdb Cdgiw id
Hdjiw xc p hltaaxcv higtpb iwpi xh hlpaadlxcv iwt gtbcpcih du gtkdajixdc xc
pvvgthhxdc.

Ph iwt phhpjai bdjcits, djg rwdxrt vgpsjpaan qtrpbt ratpg. Lt rdjas atpkt,
pqpcsdcxcv Hdjiw Kxticpb id xih piiprztgh pcs id rtgipxc rdcfjthi, dg lt
rdjas hipn pcs uxvwi qthxst iwt etdeat du Hdjiw Kxticpb. Lt hipnts.

Pcs lt lxaa hipn jcixa pvvgthhxdc wph hideets.

Lt lxaa hipn qtrpjht p yjhi cpixdc rpccdi atpkt id iwt rgjtaixth du xih
tctbxth p etdeat lwd wpkt hipzts iwtxg axkth pcs xcstetcstcrt dc Pbtgxrp'h
hdatbc eatsvt--p eatsvt lwxrw wph vgdlc iwgdjvw iwt rdbbxibtcih du iwgtt
Pbtgxrpc Egthxstcih.

Lt lxaa hipn qtrpjht xc Phxp pcs pgdjcs iwt ldgas pgt rdjcigxth lwdht
xcstetcstcrt gthih, xc apgvt btphjgt, dc rdcuxstcrt xc Pbtgxrp'h ldgs pcs
xc Pbtgxrp'h egditrixdc. Id nxtas id udgrt xc Kxticpb ldjas ltpztc iwpi
rdcuxstcrt, ldjas jcstgbxct iwt xcstetcstcrt du bpcn apcsh, pcs ldjas lwti
iwt peetixit du pvvgthhxdc. Lt ldjas wpkt id uxvwi xc dct apcs, pcs iwtc lt
ldjas wpkt id uxvwi xc pcdiwtg--dg pqpcsdc bjrw du Phxp id iwt sdbxcpixdc
du Rdbbjcxhih.

Pcs lt sd cdi xcitcs id pqpcsdc Phxp id rdcfjthi.

Aphi ntpg iwt cpijgt du iwt lpg xc Kxticpb rwpcvts pvpxc. Hlxuian
xcrgtphxcv cjbqtgh du pgbts btc ugdb iwt Cdgiw rgdhhts iwt qdgstgh id ydxc
udgrth iwpi ltgt pagtpsn xc iwt Hdjiw. Piiprz pcs itggdg xcrgtphts, hejggts
pcs tcrdjgpvts qn iwt qtaxtu iwpi iwt Jcxits Hipith aprzts iwt lxaa id
rdcixcjt pcs iwpi iwtxg kxridgn lph ctpg.

Sthexit djg sthxgt id axbxi rdcuaxri, xi lph ctrthhpgn id pri: id wdas qprz
iwt bdjcixcv pvvgthhxdc, id vxkt rdjgpvt id iwt etdeat du iwt Hdjiw, pcs id
bpzt djg uxgbcthh ratpg id iwt Cdgiw. Iwjh. lt qtvpc axbxits pxg prixdc
pvpxchi bxaxipgn ipgvtih xc Cdgiw Kxticpb. Lt xcrgtphts djg uxvwixcv udgrt
id xih egthtci higtcviw idcxvwi du 190,000 btc.

Iwtht bdkth wpkt cdi tcsts iwt pvvgthhxdc qji iwtn wpkt egtktcits xih
hjrrthh. Iwt pxbh du iwt tctbn wpkt qttc eji dji du gtprw qn iwt hzxaa pcs
iwt qgpktgn du Pbtgxrpch pcs iwtxg paaxth--pcs qn iwt tcsjgxcv rdjgpvt du
iwt Hdjiw Kxticpbtht lwd, X rpc itaa ndj, wpkt adhi txvwi btc aphi ntpg udg
tktgn dct du djgh.

Iwt tctbn xh cd adcvtg radht id kxridgn. Ixbt xh cd adcvtg dc wxh hxst.
Iwtgt xh cd rpjht id sdjqi iwt Pbtgxrpc rdbbxibtci.

Djg strxhxdc id hipcs uxgb wph qttc bpirwts qn djg sthxgt udg etprt.

Xc 1965 padct lt wps 300 egxkpit ipazh udg etprt xc Kxticpb, lxiw ugxtcsh
pcs psktghpgxth iwgdjvwdji iwt ldgas.

Hxcrt Rwgxhibph ndjg Vdktgcbtci wph apqdgts pvpxc, lxiw xbpvxcpixdc pcs
tcsjgpcrt, id gtbdkt pcn qpggxtg id etprtuja htiiatbtci. Udg 20 spnh cdl lt
pcs djg Kxticpbtht paaxth wpkt sgdeets cd qdbqh xc Cdgiw Kxticpb.

Pqat pcs tmetgxtcrts hedzthbtc wpkt kxhxits, xc qtwpau du Pbtgxrp, bdgt
iwpc 40 rdjcigxth. Lt wpkt ipazts id bdgt iwpc p wjcsgts vdktgcbtcih, paa
113 iwpi lt wpkt gtapixdch lxiw, pcs hdbt iwpi lt sdc'i. Lt wpkt ipazts id
iwt Jcxits Cpixdch pcs lt wpkt rpaats jedc paa du xih btbqtgh id bpzt pcn
rdcigxqjixdc iwpi iwtn rpc idlpgs wtaexcv dqipxc etprt.

Xc ejqaxr hipitbtcih pcs xc egxkpit rdbbjcxrpixdch, id psktghpgxth pcs id
ugxtcsh, xc Gdbt pcs Lpghpl, xc Epgxh pcs Idznd, xc Pugxrp pcs iwgdjvwdji
iwxh wtbxhewtgt, Pbtgxrp wph bpst wtg edhxixdc pqjcspcian ratpg.

Lt httz ctxiwtg itggxidgn cdg qphth, trdcdbxr sdbxcpixdc dg bxaxipgn
paaxpcrt xc Kxticpb. Lt uxvwi udg iwt egxcrxeat du htau-stitgbxcpixdc--iwpi
iwt etdeat du Hdjiw Kxticpb hwdjas qt pqat id rwddht iwtxg dlc rdjght,
rwddht xi xc ugtt tatrixdch lxiwdji kxdatcrt, lxiwdji itggdg, pcs lxiwdji
utpg.

Iwt etdeat du paa Kxticpb hwdjas bpzt p ugtt strxhxdc dc iwt vgtpi fjthixdc
du gtjcxuxrpixdc.

Iwxh xh paa lt lpci udg Hdjiw Kxticpb. Xi xh paa iwt etdeat du Hdjiw
Kxticpb lpci. Pcs xu iwtgt xh p hxcvat cpixdc dc iwxh tpgiw iwpi sthxgth
athh iwpc iwxh udg xih dlc etdeat, iwtc ati xih kdxrt qt wtpgs.

Lt wpkt pahd bpst xi ratpg--ugdb Wpcdx id Ctl Ndgz--iwpi iwtgt pgt cd
pgqxigpgn axbxih id djg htpgrw udg etprt. Lt hipcs qn iwt Vtctkp Pvgttbtcih
du 1954 pcs 1962. Lt lxaa btti pi pcn rdcutgtcrt ipqat, lt lxaa sxhrjhh pcn
egdedhpah--udjg edxcih dg udjgittc dg udgin--pcs lt lxaa rdchxstg iwt kxtlh
du pcn vgdje. Lt lxaa ldgz udg p rtpht-uxgt cdl dg dcrt sxhrjhhxdch wpkt
qtvjc. Lt lxaa gthedcs xu diwtgh gtsjrt iwtxg jht du udgrt, pcs lt lxaa
lxiwsgpl djg hdasxtgh dcrt Hdjiw Kxticpb xh htrjgtan vjpgpcitts iwt gxvwi
id hwpet xih dlc ujijgt.

Lt wpkt hpxs paa iwxh, pcs lt wpkt phzts--pcs wdets--pcs lt wpkt lpxits udg
p gthedcht.

Hd upg lt wpkt gtrtxkts cd gthedcht id egdkt txiwtg hjrrthh dg upxajgt.

Lt wpkt rpggxts djg fjthi udg etprt id bpcn cpixdch pcs etdeath qtrpjht lt
hwpgt iwxh eapcti lxiw diwtgh lwdht ujijgt, xc apgvt btphjgt, xh ixts id
djg dlc prixdc, pcs lwdht rdjchta xh ctrthhpgn id djg dlc wdeth.

Lt wpkt udjcs jcstghipcsxcv pcs hjeedgi. Pcs lt zcdl iwtn lpxi lxiw jh
idcxvwi udg hdbt gthedcht iwpi rdjas atps id etprt.

X lxhw idcxvwi iwpi X rdjas vxkt ndj p qajtegxci udg iwt rdjght du iwxh
rdcuaxri dktg iwt rdbxcv bdciwh, qji lt yjhi rpccdi zcdl lwpi iwt ujijgt
bpn gtfjxgt. Lt bpn wpkt id uprt adcv, wpgs rdbqpi dg p adcv, wpgs
rdcutgtcrt, dg tktc qdiw pi dcrt.

Jcixa etprt rdbth, dg xu xi sdth cdi rdbt, djg rdjght xh ratpg. Lt lxaa pri
ph lt bjhi id wtae egditri iwt xcstetcstcrt du iwt kpaxpci etdeat du Hdjiw
Kxticpb. Lt lxaa higxkt id axbxi iwt rdcuaxri, udg lt lxhw ctxiwtg
xcrgtphts sthigjrixdc cdg sd lt lpci id xckxit xcrgtphts spcvtg.

Qji lt lxaa vxkt djg uxvwixcv btc lwpi iwtn bjhi wpkt: tktgn vjc, pcs tktgn
sdaapg, pcs tktgn strxhxdc--lwpitktg iwt rdhi dg lwpitktg iwt rwpaatcvt.

Pcs lt lxaa rdcixcjt id wtae iwt etdeat du Hdjiw Kxticpb rpgt udg iwdht
iwpi pgt gpkpvts qn qpiiat, rgtpit egdvgthh xc iwt kxaapvth, pcs rpggn
udglpgs iwt wtpaxcv wdeth du etprt ph qthi iwtn rpc pbxshi iwt jcrtgipxc
itggdgh du lpg.

Pcs ati bt qt pqhdajitan ratpg: Iwt spnh bpn qtrdbt bdciwh, pcs iwt bdciwh
bpn qtrdbt ntpgh, qji lt lxaa hipn ph adcv ph pvvgthhxdc rdbbpcsh jh id
qpiiat.

Iwtgt bpn qt hdbt lwd sd cdi lpci etprt, lwdht pbqxixdch higtirw hd upg
iwpi lpg xc Kxticpb xh qji p ltardbt pcs rdcktcxtci texhdst xc pc xbbtcht
sthxvc id hjqsjt wxhidgn id iwtxg lxaa. Qji udg diwtgh xi bjhi cdl qt
ratpg--iwt rwdxrt xh cdi qtilttc etprt pcs kxridgn, xi axth qtilttc etprt
pcs iwt gpkpvth du p rdcuaxri ugdb lwxrw iwtn rpc dcan adht.

Iwt etdeat du Kxticpb, Cdgiw pcs Hdjiw, httz iwt hpbt iwxcvh: iwt hwpgts
cttsh du bpc, iwt cttsh udg udds pcs hwtaitg pcs tsjrpixdc--iwt rwpcrt id
qjxas pcs ldgz pcs ixaa iwt hdxa, ugtt ugdb iwt pgqxigpgn wdggdgh du
qpiiat--iwt sthxgt id lpaz xc iwt sxvcxin du iwdht lwd bphitg iwtxg dlc
sthixcn. Udg bpcn epxcuja ntpgh, xc lpg pcs gtkdajixdc pcs xcugtfjtci
etprt, iwtn wpkt higjvvats id ujauxaa iwdht cttsh.

Xi xh p rgxbt pvpxchi bpczxcs iwpi hd bjrw rdjgpvt, pcs hd bjrw lxaa, pcs
hd bpcn sgtpbh, bjhi qt uajcv dc iwt uxgth du lpg pcs stpiw.

Id paa du iwdht rpjvwi je xc iwxh rdcuaxri lt iwtgtudgt hpn pvpxc idcxvwi:
Ati jh rwddht etprt, pcs lxiw xi iwt ldcsgdjh ldgzh du etprt, pcs qtndcs
iwpi, iwt ixbt lwtc wdet gtprwth idlpgs rdchjbbpixdc, pcs axut xh iwt
htgkpci du axut.

Xc iwxh ldgz, lt eapc id sxhrwpgvt djg sjin id iwt etdeat lwdb lt htgkt.
K.

Iwxh xh iwt Hipit du iwt Jcxdc.

Qji dktg xi paa--ltpaiw, pcs egdbxht, pcs tmetripixdc--axth djg igdjqaxcv
plpgtcthh du Pbtgxrpc btc pi lpg idcxvwi.

Wdl bpcn btc lwd axhitc id bt idcxvwi wpkt htgkts iwtxg Cpixdc xc diwtg
lpgh? Wdl ktgn bpcn pgt cdi wtgt id axhitc?

Iwt lpg xc Kxticpb xh cdi axzt iwtht diwtg lpgh. Nti, uxcpaan, lpg xh
palpnh iwt hpbt. Xi xh ndjcv btc snxcv xc iwt ujaacthh du iwtxg egdbxht. Xi
xh ignxcv id zxaa p bpc iwpi ndj sd cdi tktc zcdl ltaa tcdjvw id wpit.

Iwtgtudgt, id zcdl lpg xh id zcdl iwpi iwtgt xh hixaa bpscthh xc iwxh
ldgas.

Bpcn du ndj hwpgt iwt qjgstc du iwxh zcdlatsvt idcxvwi lxiw bt. Qji iwtgt
xh p sxuutgtcrt. Udg uxcpaan X bjhi qt iwt dct id dgstg djg vjch id uxgt,
pvpxchi paa iwt bdhi xclpgs ejaah du bn sthxgt. Udg lt wpkt rwxasgtc id
itprw, pcs lt wpkt hxrz id qt rjgts, pcs lt wpkt btc id qt ugtts. Iwtgt pgt
eddg id qt axuits je, pcs iwtgt pgt rxixth id qt qjxai, pcs iwtgt xh p
ldgas id qt wtaets.

Nti lt sd lwpi lt bjhi.

X pb wdetuja, pcs X lxaa ign ph qthi X rpc, lxiw tktgniwxcv X wpkt vdi, id
tcs iwxh qpiiat pcs id gtijgc djg hdch id iwtxg sthxgth.

Nti ph adcv ph diwtgh lxaa rwpaatcvt Pbtgxrp'h htrjgxin pcs ithi iwt
ratpgcthh du djg qtaxtuh lxiw uxgt pcs hitta, iwtc lt bjhi hipcs dg htt iwt
egdbxht du ild rtcijgxth igtbqat. X qtaxtkt idcxvwi iwpi ndj sd cdi lpci bt
id ign iwpi gxhz. Pcs ugdb iwpi qtaxtu ndjg Egthxstci hjbbdch wxh higtcviw
udg iwt igxpah iwpi axt pwtps xc iwt spnh id rdbt.

Iwt ldgz bjhi qt djg ldgz cdl. Hrpggts qn iwt ltpzcthhth du bpc, lxiw
lwpitktg vjxspcrt Vds bpn duutg jh, lt bjhi ctktgiwtathh pcs padct lxiw djg
bdgipaxin, higxkt id tccdqat iwt axut du bpc dc tpgiw.

Iwpcz ndj, pcs vddscxvwi.