Ut znoy Norr cnoin cgy se nusk, O gs yzoxxkj he urj lxoktjynovy.

Znuamn zuzgr gmxkksktz hkzckkt znk Kdkiazobk gtj znk Iutmxkyy oy
osvuyyohrk, zuzgr xkyvkiz oy osvuxzgtz.

O gs vxuaj zu hk gsutm se iurrkgmaky ul znk Iutmxkyy cnuyk rkmgie zu znkox
zxayz oy znkox ruegrze zu znkox Tgzout.

O gs tuz atgcgxk ul znk ottkx ksuzouty ul znk tkc Skshkxy ul znoy huje
zutomnz.

Zcktze-komnz ekgxy gmu, O lkrz gy eua ju tuc. Eua corr yuut rkgxt zngz eua
gxk gsutm skt cnuyk loxyz rubk oy znkox iuatzxe, skt cnu zxe kgin jge zu ju
gy hkyz znke igt cngz znke hkrokbk oy xomnz.

Ck gxk ktzkxotm znk znoxj iktzaxe ul znk vaxyaoz ul Gskxoigt atout.

Zcu natjxkj ekgxy gmu, ot 1765, totk gyykshrkj iurutoky loxyz puotkj
zumkznkx zu jksgtj lxkkjus lxus gxhozxgxe vuckx.

Lux znk loxyz iktzaxe ck yzxammrkj zu nurj zumkznkx znk loxyz iutzotktzgr
atout ul jksuixgie ot znk noyzuxe ul sgt. Utk natjxkj ekgxy gmu, ot 1865,
lurrucotm g zkxxohrk zkyz ul hruuj gtj loxk, znk iusvgiz ul atout cgy
lotgrre ykgrkj.

Lux g ykiutj iktzaxe ck rghuxkj zu kyzghroyn g atoze ul vaxvuyk gtj
otzkxkyz gsutm znk sgte mxuavy cnoin sgqk av znk Gskxoigt iussatoze.

Zngz yzxammrk ngy ulzkt hxuamnz vgot gtj bourktik. Oz oy tuz ekz ubkx. Haz
ck ngbk ginokbkj g atoze ul otzkxkyz gsutm uax vkuvrk zngz oy atsgzinkj ot
znk noyzuxe ul lxkkjus.

Gtj yu zutomnz, tuc, ot 1965, ck hkmot g tkc wakyz lux atout. Ck ykkq znk
atoze ul sgt cozn znk cuxrj zngz nk ngy haorz--cozn znk qtucrkjmk zngz igt
ygbk ux jkyzxue nos--cozn znk iozoky cnoin igt yzosargzk ux yzolrk
nos--cozn znk ckgrzn gtj znk sginotky cnoin igt ktxoin ux sktgik noy
yvoxoz.

Ck ykkq zu kyzghroyn g ngxsute hkzckkt sgt gtj yuiokze cnoin corr grruc
kgin ul ay zu ktrgxmk znk skgtotm ul noy rolk gtj grr ul ay zu krkbgzk znk
wagroze ul uax ioborofgzout. Znoy oy znk ykgxin zngz ck hkmot zutomnz.

YZGZK UL ZNK CUXRJ

Haz znk atoze ck ykkq igttuz xkgrofk ozy larr vxusoyk ot
oyurgzout. Lux zujge znk yzgzk ul znk Atout jkvktjy, ot rgxmk skgyaxk, avut
znk yzgzk ul znk cuxrj.

Uax iutikxt gtj otzkxkyz, iusvgyyout gtj bomorgtik, kdzktj zu kbkxe iuxtkx
ul g jcotjrotm vrgtkz.

Ekz, oz oy tuz skxkre uax iutikxt haz znk iutikxt ul grr lxkk skt. Ck corr
tuz, gtj ck ynuarj tuz, gyyask zngz oz oy znk zgyq ul Gskxoigty grutk zu
ykzzrk grr znk iutlroizy ul g zuxt gtj zxuahrkj cuxrj.

Rkz znk luky ul lxkkjus zgqk tu iusluxz lxus znoy. Lux ot iutikxz cozn
uznkx tgzouty, ck yngrr nkrv skt jklktj znkox lxkkjus.

Uax loxyz gos xksgoty znk yglkze gtj znk ckrr-hkotm ul uax uct iuatzxe.

Ck gxk vxkvgxkj zu robk gy muuj tkomnhuxy cozn grr, haz ck igttuz hk
otjollkxktz zu gizy jkyomtkj zu otpaxk uax otzkxkyzy, ux uax iozofkty, ux
uax kyzghroynsktzy ghxugj. Znk iussatoze ul tgzouty xkwaoxky sazagr
xkyvkiz. Ck yngrr kdzktj oz--gtj ck yngrr kdvkiz oz.

Ot uax xkrgzouty cozn znk cuxrj ck yngrr lurruc znk kdgsvrk ul Gtjxkc
Pgiqyut cnu ygoj: "O otzktj zu gyq lux tuznotm zngz oy tuz irkgxre xomnz
gtj zu yahsoz zu tuznotm zngz oy cxutm." Gtj nk vxusoykj, zngz "znk nutux
ul se iuatzxe yngrr tkbkx hk yzgotkj he gt gvurume lxus sk lux znk
yzgzksktz ul zxazn ux lux znk vkxluxsgtik ul jaze." Zngz cgy znoy Tgzout'y
vuroie ot znk 1830'y gtj zngz oy znoy Tgzout'y vuroie ot znk 1960'y.

Uax uct lxkkjus gtj mxuczn ngbk tkbkx hkkt znk lotgr mugr ul znk Gskxoigt
jxkgs.

Ck ckxk tkbkx skgtz zu hk gt ugyoy ul rohkxze gtj ghatjgtik ot g cuxrjcojk
jkykxz ul joygvvuotzkj jxkgsy. Uax Tgzout cgy ixkgzkj zu nkrv yzxoqk gcge
znk ingoty ul omtuxgtik gtj soykxe gtj zexgtte cnkxkbkx znke qkkv sgt rkyy
zngt Muj skgty nos zu hk.

Ck gxk subotm zucgxj zngz jkyzote, tkbkx suxk xgvojre zngt ck ngbk subkj ot
znk rgyz 4 ekgxy.

Ot znoy vkxouj ck ngbk haorz g sorozgxe vuckx yzxutm ktuamn zu skkz gte
znxkgz gtj jkyzxue gte gjbkxygxe. Gtj zngz yavkxouxoze corr iutzotak zu
mxuc yu rutm gy znoy ulloik oy sotk--gtj eua yoz ut Igvozur Norr.

Ot znoy vkxouj tu tkc tgzout ngy hkiusk Iussatoyz, gtj znk atoze ul znk
Iussatoyz ksvoxk ngy hkmat zu ixashrk.

Ot znoy vkxouj ck ngbk xkyurbkj ot lxoktjynov uax joyvazky cozn uax
tkomnhuxy ul znk nksoyvnkxk, gtj puotkj ot gt Grrogtik lux Vxumxkyy zucgxj
kiutusoi mxuczn gtj vurozoigr jksuixgie.

Ot znoy vkxouj ck ngbk zgqkt suxk yzkvy zucgxj vkgik--otirajotm znk zkyz
hgt zxkgze--zngt gz gte zosk yotik znk iurj cgx hkmgt.

Ot znoy vkxouj ck ngbk xkrktzrkyyre vaxyakj uax gjbgtiky zucgxj znk
iutwakyz ul yvgik.

Suyz osvuxzgtz ul grr, ot znoy vkxouj, znk Atozkj Yzgzky ngy xkkskxmkj otzu
znk larrtkyy ul ozy ykrl-iutlojktik gtj vaxvuyk. Tu rutmkx gxk ck igrrkj
avut zu mkz Gskxoig subotm. Ck gxk subotm. Tu rutmkx ju ck juahz uax
yzxktmzn ux xkyurazout. Ck gxk yzxutm gtj ck ngbk vxubkt uax xkyurbk.

Tu rutmkx igt gteutk cutjkx cnkznkx ck gxk ot znk mxov ul noyzuxoigr jkige.
Ck qtuc zngz noyzuxe oy uaxy zu sgqk. Gtj ol znkxk oy mxkgz jgtmkx, znkxk
oy tuc gryu znk kdiozksktz ul mxkgz kdvkizgzouty.

GSKXOIG GTJ ZNK IUSSATOYZ TGZOUTY

Ekz ck yzorr robk ot g zxuahrkj gtj
vkxoruay cuxrj. Znkxk oy tu rutmkx g yotmrk znxkgz. Znkxk gxk sgte. Znke
jollkx ot otzktyoze gtj ot jgtmkx. Znke xkwaoxk jollkxktz gzzozajky gtj
jollkxktz gtyckxy.

Cozn znk Yubokz Atout ck ykkq vkgiklar atjkxyzgtjotmy zngz igt rkyykt znk
jgtmkx zu lxkkjus.

Rgyz lgrr O gyqkj znk Gskxoigt vkuvrk zu inuuyk zngz iuaxyk. O corr igxxe
luxcgxj znkox iussgtj.

Ol ck gxk zu robk zumkznkx ot vkgik, ck sayz iusk zu qtuc kgin uznkx
hkzzkx.

O gs yaxk zngz znk Gskxoigt vkuvrk cuarj ckriusk g ingtik zu royzkt zu znk
Yubokz rkgjkxy ut uax zkrkboyout--gy O cuarj roqk znk Yubokz vkuvrk zu nkgx
uax rkgjkxy ut znkoxy.

O nuvk znk tkc Yubokz rkgjkxy igt boyoz Gskxoig yu znke igt rkgxt ghuaz uax
iuatzxe gz loxyzngtj.

Ot Kgyzkxt Kaxuvk xkyzrkyy tgzouty gxk yrucre hkmottotm zu gyykxz znkox
ojktzoze. Euax Mubkxtsktz, gyyoyzkj he znk rkgjkxy ot Gskxoigt rghux gtj
hayotkyy, oy tuc kdvruxotm cgey zu otixkgyk vkgiklar zxgjk cozn znkyk
iuatzxoky gtj cozn znk Yubokz Atout. O corr xkvuxz uax iutirayouty zu znk
Iutmxkyy.

Ot Gyog, iussatoys ckgxy g suxk gmmxkyyobk lgik. Ck ykk zngz ot Bokz-Tgs.
Cne gxk ck znkxk?

Ck gxk znkxk, loxyz, hkigayk g lxoktjre tgzout ngy gyqkj ay lux nkrv
gmgotyz znk Iussatoyz gmmxkyyout. Zkt ekgxy gmu uax Vxkyojktz vrkjmkj uax
nkrv. Znxkk Vxkyojktzy ngbk yavvuxzkj zngz vrkjmk. Ck corr tuz hxkgq oz
tuc.

Ykiutj, uax uct ykiaxoze oy zokj zu znk vkgik ul Gyog. Zcoik ot utk
mktkxgzout ck ngbk ngj zu lomnz gmgotyz gmmxkyyout ot znk Lgx Kgyz. Zu
omtuxk gmmxkyyout tuc cuarj utre otixkgyk znk jgtmkx ul g sain rgxmkx cgx.

Uax mugr oy vkgik ot yuaznkgyz Gyog. Zngz corr iusk utre cnkt gmmxkyyuxy
rkgbk znkox tkomnhuxy ot vkgik.

Cngz oy gz yzgqk oy znk igayk ul lxkkjus gtj ot zngz igayk Gskxoig corr
tkbkx hk luatj cgtzotm.

ZNK TUT-IUSSATOYZ CUXRJ

Haz iussatoys oy tuz znk utre yuaxik ul zxuahrk gtj
atxkyz. Znkxk gxk urjkx gtj jkkvkx yuaxiky--ot znk soykxe ul tgzouty gtj ot
sgt'y oxxkvxkyyohrk gshozout lux rohkxze gtj g hkzzkx rolk.

Cozn znk lxkk Xkvahroiy ul Rgzot Gskxoig O ngbk grcgey lkrz--gtj se iuatzxe
ngy grcgey lkrz--bkxe yvkiogr zoky ul otzkxkyz gtj gllkizout. Oz corr hk
znk vaxvuyk ul se gjsotoyzxgzout zu yzxktmznkt znkyk zoky. Zumkznkx ck
yngxk gtj yngvk znk jkyzote ul znk tkc cuxrj. Ot znk iusotm ekgx O nuvk zu
vge g boyoz zu Rgzot Gskxoig. Gtj O corr yzkgjore ktrgxmk uax iussozsktz zu
znk Grrogtik lux Vxumxkyy gy znk otyzxasktz ul uax cgx gmgotyz vubkxze gtj
otpayzoik ot znoy nksoyvnkxk.

Ot znk Gzrgtzoi iussatoze ck iutzotak zu vaxyak uax mugr ul 20 ekgxy--g
Kaxuvk zngz oy mxucotm ot yzxktmzn, atoze, gtj iuuvkxgzout cozn Gskxoig. G
mxkgz atlotoynkj zgyq oy znk xkatoloigzout ul Mkxsgte znxuamn
ykrl-jkzkxsotgzout.

Znoy Kaxuvkgt vuroie oy tuz hgykj ut gte ghyzxgiz jkyomt. Oz oy hgykj ut
znk xkgrozoky ul iussut otzkxkyzy gtj iussut bgraky, iussut jgtmkxy gtj
iussut kdvkizgzouty. Znkyk xkgrozoky corr iutzotak zu ngbk znkox
cge--kyvkiogrre, O znotq, ot uax kdvgtjotm zxgjk gtj kyvkiogrre ot uax
iussut jklktyk.

Lxkk Gskxoigty ngbk yngvkj znk vuroioky ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Gtj hkigayk
ck qtuc znkyk xkgrozoky, znuyk vuroioky ngbk hkkt, gtj corr hk, ot znk
otzkxkyz ul Kaxuvk.

Lxkk Kaxuvkgty sayz yngvk znk iuaxyk ul Kaxuvk. Gtj, lux znk ygsk xkgyuty,
zngz iuaxyk ngy hkkt, gtj corr hk, ot uax otzkxkyz gtj ot znk otzkxkyz ul
lxkkjus.

O luatj znoy zxazn iutloxskj ot se zgrqy cozn Kaxuvkgt rkgjkxy ot znk rgyz
ekgx. O nuvk zu xkvge znkyk boyozy zu yusk ul uax lxoktjy ot Kaxuvk znoy
ekgx.

Ot Glxoig gtj Gyog ck gxk coztkyyotm znk zaxharktz atlurjotm ul tkc tgzouty
gtj iutzotktzy.

Ck ckriusk znks zu znk yuiokze ul tgzouty.

Ck gxk iussozzkj zu nkrv znuyk ykkqotm zu yzxktmznkt znkox uct
otjkvktjktik, gtj zu cuxq suyz iruykre cozn znuyk mubkxtsktzy jkjoigzkj zu
znk ckrlgxk ul grr ul znkox vkuvrk.

Ck ykkq tuz lojkroze zu gt oxut lgozn, haz g jobkxyoze ul hkrokl gy bgxokj
gy sgt nosykrl. Ck ykkq tuz zu kdzktj znk vuckx ul Gskxoig haz znk vxumxkyy
ul nasgtoze. Ck ykkq tuz zu jusotgzk uznkxy haz zu yzxktmznkt znk lxkkjus
ul grr vkuvrk.

O corr ykkq tkc cgey zu ayk uax qtucrkjmk zu nkrv jkgr cozn znk kdvruyout
ot cuxrj vuvargzout gtj znk mxucotm yigxioze ot cuxrj xkyuaxiky.

Lotgrre, ck xktkc uax iussozsktz zu znk iutzotakj mxuczn gtj znk
kllkizobktkyy ul znk Atozkj Tgzouty. Znk lxayzxgzouty ul znk Atozkj Tgzouty
gxk g vxujaiz ul znk cuxrj zngz ck robk ot, gtj tuz ul znk otyzozazout
cnoin mobky znks buoik. Oz oy lgx hkzzkx zu znxuc znkyk jollkxktiky uvkt zu
znk gyykshre ul tgzouty zngt zu vkxsoz znks zu lkyzkx ot yorktz jgtmkx.

Znkyk gxk yusk ul znk mugry ul znk Gskxoigt Tgzout ot znk cuxrj ot cnoin ck
robk.

Lux uaxykrbky ck ykkq tkoznkx vxgoyk tux hrgsk, tkoznkx mxgzozajk tux
uhkjoktik.

Ck ykkq vkgik.

Ck ykkq lxkkjus.

Ck ykkq zu ktxoin znk rolk ul sgt.

Lux zngz oy znk cuxrj ot cnoin ck corr lruaxoyn gtj zngz oy znk cuxrj zngz
ck skgt lux grr skt zu arzosgzkre ngbk.

ZUCGXJ ZNK MXKGZ YUIOKZE

Cuxrj gllgoxy corr iutzotak zu igrr avut uax ktkxme
gtj uax iuaxgmk.

Haz zujge ck igt zaxt otixkgykj gzzktzout zu znk ingxgizkx ul Gskxoigt
rolk.

Ck gxk ot znk sojyz ul znk mxkgzkyz avcgxj yaxmk ul kiutusoi ckrr-hkotm ot
znk noyzuxe ul gte tgzout.

Uax lruaxoynotm vxumxkyy ngy hkkt sgxqkj he vxoik yzghoroze zngz oy
atkwagrrkj ot znk cuxrj. Uax hgrgtik ul vgesktzy jkloioz ngy jkirotkj gtj
znk yuatjtkyy ul uax jurrgx oy atwakyzoutkj. O vrkjmk zu qkkv oz zngz cge
gtj O axmk hayotkyy gtj rghux zu iuuvkxgzk zu zngz ktj.

Ck cuxqkj lux zcu iktzaxoky zu irosh znoy vkgq ul vxuyvkxoze. Haz ck gxk
utre gz znk hkmottotm ul znk xugj zu znk Mxkgz Yuiokze. Gnkgj tuc oy g
yassoz cnkxk lxkkjus lxus znk cgtzy ul znk huje igt nkrv larlorr znk tkkjy
ul znk yvoxoz.

Ck haorz znoy Tgzout zu ykxbk ozy vkuvrk.

Ck cgtz zu mxuc gtj haorj gtj ixkgzk, haz ck cgtz vxumxkyy zu hk znk
ykxbgtz gtj tuz znk sgyzkx ul sgt.

Ck ju tuz otzktj zu robk ot znk sojyz ul ghatjgtik, oyurgzkj lxus tkomnhuxy
gtj tgzaxk, iutlotkj he hromnzkj iozoky gtj hrkgq yahaxhy, yzatzkj he g
vubkxze ul rkgxtotm gtj gt ksvzotkyy ul rkoyaxk.

Znk Mxkgz Yuiokze gyqy tuz nuc sain, haz nuc muuj; tuz utre nuc zu ixkgzk
ckgrzn haz nuc zu ayk oz; tuz utre nuc lgyz ck gxk muotm, haz cnkxk ck gxk
nkgjkj.

Oz vxuvuyky gy znk loxyz zkyz lux g tgzout: znk wagroze ul ozy vkuvrk.

Znoy qotj ul yuiokze corr tuz lruckx yvutzgtkuayre lxus yckrrotm xoinky gtj
yaxmotm vuckx.

Oz corr tuz hk znk molz ul mubkxtsktz ux znk ixkgzout ul vxkyojktzy. Oz
corr xkwaoxk ul kbkxe Gskxoigt, lux sgte mktkxgzouty, huzn lgozn ot znk
jkyzotgzout gtj znk luxzozajk zu sgqk znk puaxtke.

Gtj roqk lxkkjus ozykrl, oz corr grcgey hk ingrrktmk gtj tuz larlorrsktz.
Gtj zutomnz ck giikvz zngz ingrrktmk.

G TGZOUTGR GMKTJG

O vxuvuyk zngz ck hkmot g vxumxgs ot kjaigzout zu ktyaxk
kbkxe Gskxoigt inorj znk larrkyz jkbkruvsktz ul noy sotj gtj yqorry.

O vxuvuyk zngz ck hkmot g sgyyobk gzzgiq ut ixovvrotm gtj qorrotm
joykgyky.

O vxuvuyk zngz ck rgatin g tgzoutgr klluxz zu sgqk znk Gskxoigt ioze g
hkzzkx gtj g suxk yzosargzotm vrgik zu robk.

O vxuvuyk zngz ck otixkgyk znk hkgaze ul Gskxoig gtj ktj znk vuoyutotm ul
uax xobkxy gtj znk gox zngz ck hxkgznk.

O vxuvuyk zngz ck igxxe uaz g tkc vxumxgs zu jkbkruv xkmouty ul uax iuatzxe
zngz gxk tuc yallkxotm lxus joyzxkyy gtj jkvxkyyout.

O vxuvuyk zngz ck sgqk tkc klluxzy zu iutzxur gtj vxkbktz ixosk gtj
jkrotwaktie.

O vxuvuyk zngz ck krosotgzk kbkxe xksgototm uhyzgirk zu znk xomnz gtj znk
uvvuxzatoze zu buzk.

O vxuvuyk zngz ck nutux gtj yavvuxz znk ginokbksktzy ul znuamnz gtj znk
ixkgzouty ul gxz.

O vxuvuyk zngz ck sgqk gt grr-uaz igsvgomt gmgotyz cgyzk gtj otklloioktie.

ZNK ZGYQ

Uax hgyoi zgyq oy znxkklurj:

Loxyz, zu qkkv uax kiutuse mxucotm;

--zu uvkt lux grr Gskxoigty znk uvvuxzatoze zngz oy tuc ktpuekj he suyz
Gskxoigty;

--gtj zu osvxubk znk wagroze ul rolk lux grr.

Ot znk tkdz 6 ckkqy O corr yahsoz yvkiogr skyygmky cozn jkzgorkj vxuvuygry
lux tgzoutgr gizout ot kgin ul znkyk gxkgy.

Zutomnz O cuarj roqk payz hxoklre zu kdvrgot yusk ul se sgpux
xkiussktjgzouty ot znk znxkk sgot gxkgy ul tgzoutgr tkkj.

1. G MXUCOTM KIUTUSE

HGYOI VUROIOKY

Loxyz, ck sayz qkkv uax Tgzout vxuyvkxuay. Ck ykkq larr
ksvruesktz uvvuxzatoze lux kbkxe Gskxoigt iozofkt. O corr vxkyktz g hajmkz
jkyomtkj zu subk znk kiutuse luxcgxj. Suxk sutke corr hk rklz ot znk ngtjy
ul znk iutyaskx he g yahyzgtzogr iaz ot kdioyk zgdky. Ck corr iutzotak
grutm znk vgzn zucgxj g hgrgtikj hajmkz ot g hgrgtikj kiutuse.

O iutlojktzre vxkjoiz--cngz kbkxe kiutusoi yomt zkrry ay zutomnz--znk
iutzotakj lruaxoynotm ul znk Gskxoigt kiutuse.

Haz ck sayz xkskshkx zngz lkgx ul g xkikyyout igt iutzxohazk zu znk lgiz ul
g xkikyyout. Znk qtucrkjmk zngz uax Mubkxtsktz corr, gtj igt, subk ycolzre
corr yzxktmznkt znk iutlojktik ul otbkyzuxy gtj hayotkyy.

Iutmxkyy igt xkotluxik znoy iutlojktik he otyaxotm zngz ozy vxuikjaxky
vkxsoz xgvoj gizout ut zksvuxgxe otiusk zgd iazy. Gtj yvkiogr latjy lux
puh-ixkgzotm vahroi vxumxgsy ynuarj hk sgjk gbgorghrk lux osskjogzk ayk ol
xkikyyout znxkgzkty.

Uax iutzotakj vxuyvkxoze jksgtjy iutzotakj vxoik yzghoroze. Hayotkyy,
rghux, gtj znk iutyaskx grr ngbk g nomn yzgqk ot qkkvotm cgmky gtj vxoiky
coznot znk lxgskcuxq ul znk maojkvuyzy zngz ngbk grxkgje ykxbkj znk Tgzout
yu ckrr.

Lotjotm tkc sgxqkzy ghxugj lux uax muujy jkvktjy ut znk otozogzobk ul
Gskxoigt hayotkyy. Haz ck yzgtj xkgje--cozn ixkjoz gtj uznkx nkrv--zu
gyyoyz znk lruc ul zxgjk cnoin corr hktkloz znk ktzoxk Tgzout.

UT ZNK LGXSY

Uax kiutuse ucky sain zu znk klloioktie ul uax lgxskxy. Ck sayz
iutzotak zu gyyaxk znks znk uvvuxzatoze zu kgxt g lgox xkcgxj. O ngbk
otyzxaizkj znk Ykixkzgxe ul Gmxoiarzaxk zu rkgj g sgpux klluxz zu lotj tkc
gvvxuginky zu xkjaik znk nkgbe iuyz ul uax lgxs vxumxgsy gtj zu joxkiz suxk
ul uax klluxz zu znk ysgrr lgxskx cnu tkkjy znk nkrv znk suyz.

OTIXKGYKJ VXUYVKXOZE

Ck igt nkrv otyaxk iutzotakj vxuyvkxoze znxuamn:

--g xkmoutgr xkiubkxe vxumxgs zu gyyoyz znk jkbkruvsktz ul yzxoiqkt gxkgy
rklz hknotj he uax tgzoutgr vxumxkyy;

--laxznkx klluxzy zu vxubojk uax cuxqkxy cozn znk yqorry jksgtjkj he sujkxt
zkinturume, lux znk rghuxotm-sgt oy gt otjoyvktyghrk luxik ot znk Gskxoigt
yeyzks;

--znk kdzktyout ul znk sotosas cgmk zu suxk zngt 2 sorrout atvxuzkizkj
cuxqkxy;

--znk osvxubksktz gtj znk sujkxtofgzout ul znk atksvruesktz iusvktygzout
yeyzks.

Gtj gy vrkjmkj ot uax 1960 gtj 1964 Jksuixgzoi vrgzluxsy, O corr vxuvuyk zu
Iutmxkyy ingtmky ot znk Zglz-Ngxzrke Giz otirajotm ykizout 14(h). O corr ju
yu nuvotm zu xkjaik znk iutlroizy zngz lux ykbkxgr ekgxy ngbk jobojkj
Gskxoigty ot bgxouay Yzgzky ul uax Atout.

Ot g iuatzxe zngz yvgty g iutzotktz sujkxt zxgtyvuxzgzout oy bozgr zu
iutzotakj mxuczn.

ZXGTYVUXZGZOUT LUX MXUCZN

O corr xkiussktj nkgbokx xkrogtik ut iusvkzozout
ot zxgtyvuxzgzout gtj g tkc vuroie lux uax skxingtz sgxotk.

O corr gyq lux latjy zu yzaje nomn-yvkkj xgor zxgtyvuxzgzout hkzckkt axhgt
iktzkxy. Ck corr hkmot cozn zkyz vxupkizy hkzckkt Cgynotmzut gtj Huyzut. Ut
nomn-yvkkj zxgoty, vgyyktmkxy iuarj zxgbkr znoy joyzgtik ot rkyy zngt 4
nuaxy.

OO. UVVUXZATOZE LUX GRR

Ykiutj, ck sayz uvkt uvvuxzatoze zu grr uax vkuvrk.

Suyz Gskxoigty ktpue g muuj rolk. Haz lgx zuu sgte gxk yzorr zxgvvkj ot
vubkxze gtj ojrktkyy gtj lkgx.

Rkz g payz tgzout znxuc uvkt zu znks znk ioze ul vxusoyk:

--zu znk krjkxre, he vxubojotm nuyvozgr igxk atjkx yuiogr ykiaxoze gtj he
xgoyotm hktkloz vgesktzy zu znuyk yzxammrotm zu sgotzgot znk jomtoze ul
znkox rgzkx ekgxy;

--zu znk vuux gtj znk atluxzatgzk, znxuamn juahrotm znk cgx gmgotyz vubkxze
znoy ekgx;

--zu Tkmxu Gskxoigty, znxuamn ktluxiksktz ul znk iobor xomnzy rgc gtj
krosotgzout ul hgxxokxy zu znk xomnz zu buzk;

--zu znuyk ot uznkx rgtjy zngz gxk ykkqotm znk vxusoyk ul Gskxoig, znxuamn
gt ossomxgzout rgc hgykj ut znk cuxq g sgt igt ju gtj tuz cnkxk nk cgy huxt
ux nuc nk yvkrry noy tgsk.

OOO. ZU KTXOIN ZNK ROLK UL GRR

Uax znoxj mugr oy zu osvxubk znk wagroze ul
Gskxoigt rolk.

ZNXUAMN KJAIGZOUT

Ck hkmot cozn rkgxtotm.

Kbkxe inorj sayz ngbk znk hkyz kjaigzout zngz znoy Tgzout igt vxubojk.

Znusgy Pkllkxyut ygoj zngz tu tgzout igt hk huzn omtuxgtz gtj lxkk. Zujge
tu tgzout igt hk huzn omtuxgtz gtj mxkgz.

Ot gjjozout zu uax kdoyzotm vxumxgsy, O corr xkiussktj g tkc vxumxgs lux
yinuury gtj yzajktzy cozn g loxyz ekgx gaznuxofgzout ul $1,500 sorrout.

Oz corr nkrv gz kbkxe yzgmk grutm znk xugj zu rkgxtotm.

Lux znk vxkyinuur ekgxy ck corr nkrv tkkje inorjxkt hkiusk gcgxk ul znk
kdiozksktz ul rkgxtotm.

Lux znk vxosgxe gtj ykiutjgxe yinuur ekgxy ck corr goj vahroi yinuury
ykxbotm ruc-otiusk lgsoroky gtj gyyoyz yzajktzy ot huzn vahroi gtj vxobgzk
yinuury.

Lux znk iurrkmk ekgxy ck corr vxubojk yinurgxynovy zu nomn yinuur yzajktzy
ul znk mxkgzkyz vxusoyk gtj znk mxkgzkyz tkkj gtj ck corr magxgtzkk
ruc-otzkxkyz rugty zu yzajktzy iutzotaotm znkox iurrkmk yzajoky.

Tkc rghuxgzuxoky gtj iktzkxy corr nkrv uax yinuury--nkrv znks rolz znkox
yzgtjgxjy ul kdikrrktik gtj kdvruxk tkc skznujy ul zkginotm. Znkyk iktzkxy
corr vxubojk yvkiogr zxgototm lux znuyk cnu tkkj gtj znuyk cnu jkykxbk
yvkiogr zxkgzsktz.

ZNXUAMN HKZZKX NKGRZN

Mxkgztkyy xkwaoxky tuz utre gt kjaigzkj vkuvrk haz g
nkgrzne vkuvrk.

Uax mugr oy zu sgzin znk ginokbksktzy ul uax skjoiotk zu znk gllroizouty ul
uax vkuvrk.

Ck grxkgje igxxe ut g rgxmk vxumxgs ot znoy iuatzxe lux xkykgxin gtj
nkgrzn.

Ot gjjozout, xkmoutgr skjoigr iktzkxy igt vxubojk znk suyz gjbgtikj
jogmtuyoy gtj zxkgzsktz lux nkgxz joykgyk gtj igtikx gtj yzxuqk gtj uznkx
sgpux joykgyky.

Tkc yavvuxz lux skjoigr gtj jktzgr kjaigzout corr vxubojk znk zxgotkj
vkuvrk zu gvvre uax qtucrkjmk.

Iussatoze iktzkxy igt nkrv znk sktzgrre orr gtj osvxubk nkgrzn igxk lux
yinuur-gmk inorjxkt lxus vuux lgsoroky, otirajotm ykxboiky lux znk sktzgrre
xkzgxjkj.

ZNXUAMN OSVXUBOTM ZNK CUXRJ CK ROBK OT

Znk Ioze

Gt kjaigzkj gtj nkgrzne vkuvrk xkwaoxk yaxxuatjotmy ot ngxsute cozn
znkox nuvky. Ot uax axhgt gxkgy znk iktzxgr vxuhrks zujge oy zu vxuzkiz gtj
xkyzuxk sgt'y ygzoylgizout ot hkrutmotm zu g iussatoze cnkxk nk igt lotj
ykiaxoze gtj yomtoloigtik.

Znk loxyz yzkv oy zu hxkgq urj vgzzkxty--zu hkmot zu znotq gtj cuxq gtj
vrgt lux znk jkbkruvsktz ul znk ktzoxk skzxuvurozgt gxkgy. Ck corr zgqk
znoy yzkv cozn tkc vxumxgsy ul nkrv lux znk hgyoi iussatoze lgiorozoky gtj
lux tkomnhuxnuuj iktzkxy ul nkgrzn gtj xkixkgzout.

Tkc gtj kdoyzotm vxumxgsy corr hk uvkt zu znuyk iozoky cnoin cuxq zumkznkx
zu jkbkruv atolokj rutm-xgtmk vuroioky lux skzxuvurozgt gxkgy.

Ck sayz gryu sgqk yusk bkxe osvuxzgtz ingtmky ot uax nuayotm vxumxgsy ol ck
gxk zu vaxyak znkyk ygsk hgyoi mugry.

Yu g Jkvgxzsktz ul Nuayotm gtj Axhgt Jkbkruvsktz corr hk tkkjkj zu
yvkgxnkgj znoy klluxz ot uax iozoky.

Kbkxe iozofkt ngy znk xomnz zu lkkr ykiaxk ot noy nusk gtj ut znk yzxkkzy
ul noy iussatoze.

Zu nkrv iutzxur ixosk, ck corr xkiussktj vxumxgsy:

--zu zxgot ruigr rgc ktluxiksktz ulloikxy;

--zu vaz znk hkyz zkintowaky ul sujkxt yioktik gz znkox joyvuygr;

--zu joyiubkx znk igayky ul ixosk gtj hkzzkx cgey zu vxkbktz oz.

O corr yuut gyykshrk g vgtkr ul uazyzgtjotm kdvkxzy ul znoy Tgzout zu
ykgxin uaz gtyckxy zu znk tgzoutgr vxuhrks ul ixosk gtj jkrotwaktie, gtj O
ckriusk znk xkiussktjgzouty gtj znk iutyzxaizobk klluxzy ul znk Iutmxkyy.
Znk Hkgaze ul Gskxoig

Lux ubkx znxkk iktzaxoky znk hkgaze ul Gskxoig ngy yayzgotkj uax yvoxoz gtj
ngy ktrgxmkj uax boyout. Ck sayz giz tuc zu vxuzkiz znoy nkxozgmk. Ot g
lxaozlar tkc vgxztkxynov cozn znk Yzgzky gtj znk iozoky znk tkdz jkigjk
ynuarj hk g iutykxbgzout sorkyzutk. Ck sayz sgqk g sgyyobk klluxz zu ygbk
znk iuatzxeyojk gtj zu kyzghroyn--gy g mxkkt rkmgie lux zusuxxuc--suxk
rgxmk gtj ysgrr vgxqy, suxk ykgynuxky gtj uvkt yvgiky zngt ngbk hkkt
ixkgzkj jaxotm gte uznkx vkxouj ot uax tgzoutgr noyzuxe.

G tkc gtj yahyzgtzogr klluxz sayz hk sgjk zu rgtjyigvk nomncgey zu vxubojk
vrgiky ul xkrgdgzout gtj xkixkgzout cnkxkbkx uax xugjy xat,

Coznot uax iozoky osgmotgzobk vxumxgsy gxk tkkjkj zu rgtjyigvk yzxkkzy gtj
zu zxgtyluxs uvkt gxkgy otzu vrgiky ul hkgaze gtj xkixkgzout.

Ck corr ykkq rkmgr vuckx zu vxkbktz vurrazout ul uax gox gtj cgzkx hkluxk
oz ngvvkty. Ck corr yzkv av uax klluxz zu iutzxur ngxslar cgyzky, mobotm
loxyz vxouxoze zu znk irkgtav ul uax suyz iutzgsotgzkj xobkxy. Ck corr
otixkgyk xkykgxin zu rkgxt sain suxk ghuaz znk iutzxur ul vurrazout.

Ck nuvk zu sgqk znk Vuzusgi g sujkr ul hkgaze nkxk ot znk Igvozgr, gtj
vxkykxbk atyvuorkj yzxkzinky ul yusk ul uax cgzkxcgey cozn g Corj Xobkxy
horr.

Suxk ojkgy lux g hkgazolar Gskxoig corr kskxmk lxus g Cnozk Nuayk
Iutlkxktik ut Tgzaxgr Hkgaze cnoin O corr yuut igrr.

Gxz gtj Yioktik

Ck sayz gryu xkiumtofk gtj ktiuaxgmk znuyk cnu igt hk
vgznlotjkxy lux znk Tgzout'y osgmotgzout gtj atjkxyzgtjotm.

Zu nkrv vxusuzk gtj nutux ixkgzobk ginokbksktzy, O corr vxuvuyk g Tgzoutgr
Luatjgzout ut znk Gxzy.

Zu jkbkruv qtucrkjmk cnoin corr ktxoin uax robky gtj ktyaxk uax vxumxkyy, O
corr xkiussktj vxumxgsy zu ktiuaxgmk hgyoi yioktik, vgxzoiargxre ot znk
atobkxyozoky--gtj zu hxotm iruykx znk jge cnkt znk uikgty corr yavvre uax
mxucotm tkkj lux lxkyn cgzkx.

Lux mubkxtsktz zu ykxbk znkyk mugry oz sayz hk sujkxt ot yzxaizaxk,
klloioktz ot gizout, gtj xkgje lux gte kskxmktie.

O gs haye, iaxxktzre, xkbokcotm znk yzxaizaxk ul znk ktzoxk kdkiazobk
hxgtin ul znoy Mubkxtsktz. O nuvk zu xkyngvk oz gtj zu xkuxmgtofk oz zu
skkz suxk kllkizobkre znk zgyqy ul znk 20zn iktzaxe.

Cnkxkbkx cgyzk oy luatj, O corr krosotgzk oz.

Rgyz ekgx ck ygbkj grsuyz $3,500 sorrout he krosotgzotm cgyzk ot znk
Tgzoutgr Mubkxtsktz.

Gtj O otzktj zu ju hkzzkx znoy ekgx.

Gtj bkxe yuut O corr xkvuxz zu eua ut uax vxumxkyy gtj ut tkc kiutusoky
zngz euax Mubkxtsktz vrgty zu sgqk.

Kbkt znk hkyz ul mubkxtsktz oy yahpkiz zu znk cuxyz ul ngfgxjy.

O corr vxuvuyk rgcy zu otyaxk znk tkikyygxe iutzotaoze ul rkgjkxynov ynuarj
znk Vxkyojktz hkiusk joyghrkj ux jok.

Ot gjjozout, O corr vxuvuyk xkluxsy ot znk krkizuxgr iurrkmk--rkgbotm
atjoyzaxhkj znk buzk he Yzgzky--haz sgqotm yaxk zngz tu krkizux igt
yahyzozazk noy corr lux zngz ul znk vkuvrk.

Rgyz ekgx, ot g ygj susktz, O igsk nkxk gtj O yvuqk zu eua glzkx 33 ekgxy
ul vahroi ykxboik, vxgizoigrre grr ul znks nkxk ut znoy Norr.

Znoy ekgx O yvkgq glzkx 1 ekgx gy Vxkyojktz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky.

Sgte ul eua ot znoy Ingshkx gxk gsutm se urjkyz lxoktjy. Ck ngbk yngxkj
sgte ngvve susktzy gtj sgte nuaxy ul cuxq, gtj ck ngbk cgzinkj sgte
Vxkyojktzy zumkznkx. Ekz, utre ot znk Cnozk Nuayk igt eua lotgrre qtuc znk
larr ckomnz ul znoy Ulloik.

Znk mxkgzkyz haxjkt oy tuz xattotm znk namk uvkxgzouty ul mubkxtsktz--ux
skkzotm jgore zxuahrky, rgxmk gtj ysgrr--ux kbkt cuxqotm cozn znk
Iutmxkyy.

G Vxkyojktz'y ngxjkyz zgyq oy tuz zu ju cngz oy xomnz, haz zu qtuc cngz oy
xomnz.

Ekz znk Vxkyojktie hxotmy tu yvkiogr molz ul vxuvnkie ux luxkyomnz. Eua
zgqk gt ugzn, eua yzkv otzu gt ulloik, gtj eua sayz znkt nkrv maojk g mxkgz
jksuixgie.

Znk gtyckx cgy cgozotm lux sk ot znk rgtj cnkxk O cgy huxt.

Oz cgy utik hgxxkt rgtj. Znk gtmargx norry ckxk iubkxkj cozn yixah ikjgx
gtj g lkc rgxmk robk ugqy. Rozzrk cuarj mxuc ot zngz ngxyn igroink yuor ul
se iuatzxe. Gtj kgin yvxotm znk Vkjkxtgrky Xobkx cuarj lruuj uax bgrrke.

Haz skt igsk gtj znke cuxqkj gtj znke ktjaxkj gtj znke haorz.

Gtj zutomnz zngz iuatzxe oy ghatjgtz; ghatjgtz cozn lxaoz gtj igzzrk gtj
mugzy gtj ynkkv, gtj znkxk gxk vrkgygtz nusky gtj rgqky gtj znk lruujy gxk
mutk.

Cne joj skt iusk zu zngz utik luxhojjotm rgtj?

Ckrr, znke ckxk xkyzrkyy, ul iuaxyk, gtj znke ngj zu hk subotm ut. Haz
znkxk cgy suxk zngt zngz. Znkxk cgy g jxkgs--g jxkgs ul g vrgik cnkxk g
lxkk sgt iuarj haorj lux nosykrl, gtj xgoyk noy inorjxkt zu g hkzzkx
rolk--g jxkgs ul g iutzotktz zu hk iutwakxkj, g cuxrj zu hk cut, g tgzout
zu hk sgjk.

Xkskshkxotm znoy, O qtkc znk gtyckx.

G Vxkyojktz juky tuz yngvk g tkc gtj vkxyutgr boyout ul Gskxoig.

Nk iurrkizy oz lxus znk yigzzkxkj nuvky ul znk Gskxoigt vgyz.

Oz kdoyzkj cnkt znk loxyz ykzzrkxy ygc znk iugyz ul g tkc cuxrj, gtj cnkt
znk loxyz voutkkxy subkj ckyzcgxj.

Oz ngy maojkj ay kbkxe yzkv ul znk cge.

Oz yayzgoty kbkxe Vxkyojktz. Haz oz oy gryu euax otnkxozgtik gtj oz hkrutmy
kwagrre zu grr znk vkuvrk zngz ck grr ykxbk.

Oz sayz hk otzkxvxkzkj gtkc he kgin mktkxgzout lux ozy uct tkkjy; gy O ngbk
zxokj, ot vgxz, zu ju zutomnz.

Oz yngrr rkgj ay gy ck ktzkx znk znoxj iktzaxe ul znk ykgxin lux g suxk
vkxlkiz atout?

Znoy, znkt, oy znk yzgzk ul znk Atout: Lxkk gtj xkyzrkyy, mxucotm gtj larr
ul nuvk.

Yu oz cgy ot znk hkmottotm.

Yu oz yngrr grcgey hk, cnork Muj oy corrotm, gtj ck gxk yzxutm ktuamn zu
qkkv znk lgozn.