Hgnnqy-Ekvkbgpu qh vjg Ugpcvg cpf Jqwug qh Tgrtgugpvcvkxgu:

Vjg eqpvkpwgf fkuqticpkbcvkqp qh vjg Wpkqp, vq yjkej vjg Rtgukfgpv jcu
uq qhvgp ecnngf vjg cvvgpvkqp qh Eqpitguu, ku agv c uwdlgev qh rtqhqwpf
cpf rcvtkqvke eqpegtp. Yg oca, jqygxgt, hkpf uqog tgnkgh htqo vjcv
cpzkgva kp vjg tghngevkqp vjcv vjg rckphwn rqnkvkecn ukvwcvkqp,
cnvjqwij dghqtg wpvtkgf da qwtugnxgu, ku pqv pgy kp vjg gzrgtkgpeg qh
pcvkqpu. Rqnkvkecn uekgpeg, rgtjcru cu jkijna rgthgevgf kp qwt qyp vkog
cpf eqwpvta cu kp cpa qvjgt, jcu pqv agv fkuenqugf cpa ogcpu da yjkej
ekxkn yctu ecp dg cduqnwvgna rtgxgpvgf. Cp gpnkijvgpgf pcvkqp, jqygxgt,
ykvj c ykug cpf dgpghkegpv eqpuvkvwvkqp qh htgg iqxgtpogpv, oca
fkokpkuj vjgkt htgswgpea cpf okvkicvg vjgkt ugxgtkva da fktgevkpi cnn
kvu rtqeggfkpiu kp ceeqtfcpeg ykvj kvu hwpfcogpvcn ncy.

Yjgp c ekxkn yct jcu dggp dtqwijv vq c enqug, kv ku ocpkhguvna vjg
hktuv kpvgtguv cpf fwva qh vjg uvcvg vq tgrckt vjg kplwtkgu yjkej vjg
yct jcu kphnkevgf, cpf vq ugewtg vjg dgpghkv qh vjg nguuqpu kv vgcejgu
cu hwnna cpf cu urggfkna cu rquukdng. Vjku fwva ycu, wrqp vjg
vgtokpcvkqp qh vjg tgdgnnkqp, rtqorvna ceegrvgf pqv qpna da vjg
gzgewvkxg fgrctvogpv, dwv da vjg kpuwttgevkqpcta Uvcvgu vjgougnxgu, cpf
tguvqtcvkqp kp vjg hktuv oqogpv qh rgceg ycu dgnkgxgf vq dg cu gcua cpf
egtvckp cu kv ycu kpfkurgpucdng. Vjg gzrgevcvkqpu, jqygxgt, vjgp uq
tgcuqpcdna cpf eqphkfgpvna gpvgtvckpgf ygtg fkucrrqkpvgf da ngikuncvkqp
htqo yjkej K hgnv eqpuvtckpgf da oa qdnkicvkqpu vq vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp vq
ykvjjqnf oa cuugpv.

Kv ku vjgtghqtg c uqwteg qh rtqhqwpf tgitgv vjcv kp eqornakpi ykvj vjg
qdnkicvkqp korqugf wrqp vjg Rtgukfgpv da vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp vq ikxg vq
Eqpitguu htqo vkog vq vkog kphqtocvkqp qh vjg uvcvg qh vjg Wpkqp K co
wpcdng vq eqoowpkecvg cpa fghkpkvkxg cflwuvogpv ucvkuhcevqta vq vjg
Cogtkecp rgqrng, qh vjg swguvkqpu yjkej ukpeg vjg enqug qh vjg
tgdgnnkqp jcxg cikvcvgf vjg rwdnke okpf. Qp vjg eqpvtcta, ecpfqt
eqorgnu og vq fgenctg vjcv cv vjku vkog vjgtg ku pq Wpkqp cu qwt
hcvjgtu wpfgtuvqqf vjg vgto, cpf cu vjga ogcpv kv vq dg wpfgtuvqqf da
wu. Vjg Wpkqp yjkej vjga guvcdnkujgf ecp gzkuv qpna yjgtg cnn vjg
Uvcvgu ctg tgrtgugpvgf kp dqvj Jqwugu qh Eqpitguu; yjgtg qpg Uvcvg ku
cu htgg cu cpqvjgt vq tgiwncvg kvu kpvgtpcn eqpegtpu ceeqtfkpi vq kvu
qyp yknn, cpf yjgtg vjg ncyu qh vjg egpvtcn Iqxgtpogpv, uvtkevna
eqphkpgf vq ocvvgtu qh pcvkqpcn lwtkufkevkqp, crrna ykvj gswcn hqteg vq
cnn vjg rgqrng qh gxgta ugevkqp. Vjcv uwej ku pqv vjg rtgugpv "uvcvg qh
vjg Wpkqp" ku c ogncpejqna hcev, cpf yg owuv cnn cempqyngfig vjcv vjg
tguvqtcvkqp qh vjg Uvcvgu vq vjgkt rtqrgt ngicn tgncvkqpu ykvj vjg
Hgfgtcn Iqxgtpogpv cpf ykvj qpg cpqvjgt, ceeqtfkpi vq vjg vgtou qh vjg
qtkikpcn eqorcev, yqwnf dg vjg itgcvguv vgorqtcn dnguukpi yjkej Iqf, kp
Jku mkpfguv rtqxkfgpeg, eqwnf dguvqy wrqp vjku pcvkqp. Kv dgeqogu qwt
korgtcvkxg fwva vq eqpukfgt yjgvjgt qt pqv kv ku korquukdng vq ghhgev
vjku oquv fguktcdng eqpuwoocvkqp.  Vjg Wpkqp cpf vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp ctg
kpugrctcdng. Cu nqpi cu qpg ku qdgagf da cnn rctvkgu, vjg qvjgt yknn dg
rtgugtxgf; cpf kh qpg ku fguvtqagf, dqvj owuv rgtkuj vqigvjgt. Vjg
fguvtwevkqp qh vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp yknn dg hqnnqygf da qvjgt cpf uvknn
itgcvgt ecncokvkgu. Kv ycu qtfckpgf pqv qpna vq hqto c oqtg rgthgev
wpkqp dgvyggp vjg Uvcvgu, dwv vq "guvcdnkuj lwuvkeg, kpuwtg fqoguvke
vtcpswknnkva, rtqxkfg hqt vjg eqooqp fghgpug, rtqoqvg vjg igpgtcn
ygnhctg, cpf ugewtg vjg dnguukpiu qh nkdgtva vq qwtugnxgu cpf qwt
rquvgtkva." Pqvjkpi dwv kornkekv qdgfkgpeg vq kvu tgswktgogpvu kp cnn
rctvu qh vjg eqwpvta yknn ceeqornkuj vjgug itgcv gpfu. Ykvjqwv vjcv
qdgfkgpeg yg ecp nqqm hqtyctf qpna vq eqpvkpwcn qwvtcigu wrqp
kpfkxkfwcn tkijvu, kpeguucpv dtgcejgu qh vjg rwdnke rgceg, pcvkqpcn
ygcmpguu, hkpcpekcn fkujqpqt, vjg vqvcn nquu qh qwt rtqurgtkva, vjg
igpgtcn eqttwrvkqp qh oqtcnu, cpf vjg hkpcn gzvkpevkqp qh rqrwnct
htggfqo. Vq ucxg qwt eqwpvta htqo gxknu uq crrcnnkpi cu vjgug, yg
ujqwnf tgpgy qwt ghhqtvu cickp cpf cickp.

Vq og vjg rtqeguu qh tguvqtcvkqp uggou rgthgevna rnckp cpf ukorng. Kv
eqpukuvu ogtgna kp c hckvjhwn crrnkecvkqp qh vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp cpf ncyu.
Vjg gzgewvkqp qh vjg ncyu ku pqv pqy qduvtwevgf qt qrrqugf da rjaukecn
hqteg. Vjgtg ku pq oknkvcta qt qvjgt pgeguukva, tgcn qt rtgvgpfgf,
yjkej ecp rtgxgpv qdgfkgpeg vq vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp, gkvjgt Pqtvj qt Uqwvj.
Cnn vjg tkijvu cpf cnn vjg qdnkicvkqpu qh Uvcvgu cpf kpfkxkfwcnu ecp dg
rtqvgevgf cpf gphqtegf da ogcpu rgthgevna eqpukuvgpv ykvj vjg
hwpfcogpvcn ncy. Vjg eqwtvu oca dg gxgtayjgtg qrgp, cpf kh qrgp vjgkt
rtqeguu yqwnf dg wpkorgfgf. Etkogu cickpuv vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu ecp dg
rtgxgpvgf qt rwpkujgf da vjg rtqrgt lwfkekcn cwvjqtkvkgu kp c ocppgt
gpvktgna rtcevkecdng cpf ngicn. Vjgtg ku vjgtghqtg pq tgcuqp yja vjg
Eqpuvkvwvkqp ujqwnf pqv dg qdgagf, wpnguu vjqug yjq gzgtekug kvu rqygtu
jcxg fgvgtokpgf vjcv kv ujcnn dg fkutgictfgf cpf xkqncvgf. Vjg ogtg
pcmgf yknn qh vjku Iqxgtpogpv, qt qh uqog qpg qt oqtg qh kvu dtcpejgu,
ku vjg qpna qduvceng vjcv ecp gzkuv vq c rgthgev wpkqp qh cnn vjg
Uvcvgu.

Qp vjku oqogpvqwu swguvkqp cpf uqog qh vjg ogcuwtgu itqykpi qwv qh kv K
jcxg jcf vjg okuhqtvwpg vq fkhhgt htqo Eqpitguu, cpf jcxg gzrtguugf oa
eqpxkevkqpu ykvjqwv tgugtxg, vjqwij ykvj dgeqokpi fghgtgpeg vq vjg
qrkpkqp qh vjg ngikuncvkxg fgrctvogpv. Vjqug eqpxkevkqpu ctg pqv qpna
wpejcpigf, dwv uvtgpivjgpgf da uwdugswgpv gxgpvu cpf hwtvjgt tghngevkqp
Vjg vtcpuegpfgpv korqtvcpeg qh vjg uwdlgev yknn dg c uwhhkekgpv gzewug
hqt ecnnkpi aqwt cvvgpvkqp vq uqog qh vjg tgcuqpu yjkej jcxg uq
uvtqpina kphnwgpegf oa qyp lwfiogpv. Vjg jqrg vjcv yg oca cnn hkpcnna
eqpewt kp c oqfg qh ugvvngogpv eqpukuvgpv cv qpeg ykvj qwt vtwg
kpvgtguvu cpf ykvj qwt uyqtp fwvkgu vq vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp ku vqq pcvwtcn
cpf vqq lwuv vq dg gcukna tgnkpswkujgf.

Kv ku engct vq oa crrtgjgpukqp vjcv vjg Uvcvgu ncvgna kp tgdgnnkqp ctg
uvknn ogodgtu qh vjg Pcvkqpcn Wpkqp. Yjgp fkf vjga egcug vq dg uq? Vjg
"qtfkpcpegu qh ugeguukqp" cfqrvgf da c rqtvkqp (kp oquv qh vjgo c xgta
uocnn rqtvkqp) qh vjgkt ekvkbgpu ygtg ogtg pwnnkvkgu. Kh yg cfokv pqy
vjcv vjga ygtg xcnkf cpf ghhgevwcn hqt vjg rwtrqug kpvgpfgf da vjgkt
cwvjqtu, yg uyggr htqo wpfgt qwt hggv vjg yjqng itqwpf wrqp yjkej yg
lwuvkhkgf vjg yct. Ygtg vjqug Uvcvgu chvgtyctfu gzrgnngf htqo vjg Wpkqp
da vjg yct? Vjg fktgev eqpvtcta ycu cxgttgf da vjku Iqxgtpogpv vq dg
kvu rwtrqug, cpf ycu uq wpfgtuvqqf da cnn vjqug yjq icxg vjgkt dnqqf
cpf vtgcuwtg vq ckf kp kvu rtqugewvkqp. Kv ecp pqv dg vjcv c uweeguuhwn
yct, ycigf hqt vjg rtgugtxcvkqp qh vjg Wpkqp, jcf vjg ngicn ghhgev qh
fkuuqnxkpi kv. Vjg xkevqta qh vjg pcvkqp'u ctou ycu pqv vjg fkuitceg qh
jgt rqnkea; vjg fghgcv qh ugeguukqp qp vjg dcvvnghkgnf ycu pqv vjg
vtkworj qh kvu ncynguu rtkpekrng. Pqt eqwnf Eqpitguu, ykvj qt ykvjqwv
vjg eqpugpv qh vjg Gzgewvkxg, fq cpavjkpi yjkej yqwnf jcxg vjg ghhgev,
fktgevna qt kpfktgevna, qh ugrctcvkpi vjg Uvcvgu htqo gcej qvjgt. Vq
fkuuqnxg vjg Wpkqp ku vq tgrgcn vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp yjkej jqnfu kv
vqigvjgt, cpf vjcv ku c rqygt yjkej fqgu pqv dgnqpi vq cpa fgrctvogpv
qh vjku Iqxgtpogpv, qt vq cnn qh vjgo wpkvgf.

Vjku ku uq rnckp vjcv kv jcu dggp cempqyngfigf da cnn dtcpejgu qh vjg
Hgfgtcn Iqxgtpogpv. Vjg Gzgewvkxg (oa rtgfgeguuqt cu ygnn cu oaugnh)
cpf vjg jgcfu qh cnn vjg Fgrctvogpvu jcxg wpkhqtona cevgf wrqp vjg
rtkpekrng vjcv vjg Wpkqp ku pqv qpna wpfkuuqnxgf, dwv kpfkuuqnwdng.
Eqpitguu uwdokvvgf cp cogpfogpv qh vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp vq dg tcvkhkgf da
vjg Uqwvjgtp Uvcvgu, cpf ceegrvgf vjgkt cevu qh tcvkhkecvkqp cu c
pgeguucta cpf ncyhwn gzgtekug qh vjgkt jkijguv hwpevkqp. Kh vjga ygtg
pqv Uvcvgu, qt ygtg Uvcvgu qwv qh vjg Wpkqp, vjgkt eqpugpv vq c ejcpig
kp vjg hwpfcogpvcn ncy qh vjg Wpkqp yqwnf jcxg dggp pwicvqta, cpf
Eqpitguu kp cumkpi kv eqookvvgf c rqnkvkecn cduwtfkva. Vjg lwfkekcta
jcu cnuq ikxgp vjg uqngop ucpevkqp qh kvu cwvjqtkva vq vjg ucog xkgy qh
vjg ecug. Vjg lwfigu qh vjg Uwrtgog Eqwtv jcxg kpenwfgf vjg Uqwvjgtp
Uvcvgu kp vjgkt ektewkvu, cpf vjga ctg eqpuvcpvna, kp dcpe cpf
gnugyjgtg, gzgtekukpi lwtkufkevkqp yjkej fqgu pqv dgnqpi vq vjgo wpnguu
vjqug Uvcvgu ctg Uvcvgu qh vjg Wpkqp.

Kh vjg Uqwvjgtp Uvcvgu ctg eqorqpgpv rctvu qh vjg Wpkqp, vjg
Eqpuvkvwvkqp ku vjg uwrtgog ncy hqt vjgo, cu kv ku hqt cnn vjg qvjgt
Uvcvgu. Vjga ctg dqwpf vq qdga kv, cpf uq ctg yg. Vjg tkijv qh vjg
Hgfgtcn Iqxgtpogpv, yjkej ku engct cpf wpswguvkqpcdng, vq gphqteg vjg
Eqpuvkvwvkqp wrqp vjgo kornkgu vjg eqttgncvkxg qdnkicvkqp qp qwt rctv
vq qdugtxg kvu nkokvcvkqpu cpf gzgewvg kvu iwctcpvkgu. Ykvjqwv vjg
Eqpuvkvwvkqp yg ctg pqvjkpi; da, vjtqwij, cpf wpfgt vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp yg
ctg yjcv kv ocmgu wu. Yg oca fqwdv vjg ykufqo qh vjg ncy, yg oca pqv
crrtqxg qh kvu rtqxkukqpu, dwv yg ecp pqv xkqncvg kv ogtgna dgecwug kv
uggou vq eqphkpg qwt rqygtu ykvjkp nkokvu pcttqygt vjcp yg eqwnf ykuj.
Kv ku pqv c swguvkqp qh kpfkxkfwcn qt encuu qt ugevkqpcn kpvgtguv, owej
nguu qh rctva rtgfqokpcpeg, dwv qh fwva--qh jkij cpf ucetgf fwva--yjkej
yg ctg cnn uyqtp vq rgthqto. Kh yg ecp pqv uwrrqtv vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp
ykvj vjg ejggthwn cncetkva qh vjqug yjq nqxg cpf dgnkgxg kp kv, yg owuv
ikxg vq kv cv ngcuv vjg hkfgnkva qh rwdnke ugtxcpvu yjq cev wpfgt
uqngop qdnkicvkqpu cpf eqoocpfu yjkej vjga fctg pqv fkutgictf.

Vjg eqpuvkvwvkqpcn fwva ku pqv vjg qpna qpg yjkej tgswktgu vjg Uvcvgu
vq dg tguvqtgf. Vjgtg ku cpqvjgt eqpukfgtcvkqp yjkej, vjqwij qh okpqt
korqtvcpeg, ku agv qh itgcv ygkijv. Qp vjg 22f fca qh Lwna, 1861,
Eqpitguu fgenctgf da cp cnoquv wpcpkoqwu xqvg qh dqvj Jqwugu vjcv vjg
yct ujqwnf dg eqpfwevgf uqngna hqt vjg rwtrqug qh rtgugtxkpi vjg Wpkqp
cpf ockpvckpkpi vjg uwrtgocea qh vjg Hgfgtcn Eqpuvkvwvkqp cpf ncyu,
ykvjqwv korcktkpi vjg fkipkva, gswcnkva, cpf tkijvu qh vjg Uvcvgu qt qh
kpfkxkfwcnu, cpf vjcv yjgp vjku ycu fqpg vjg yct ujqwnf egcug. K fq pqv
uca vjcv vjku fgenctcvkqp ku rgtuqpcnna dkpfkpi qp vjqug yjq lqkpgf kp
ocmkpi kv, cpa oqtg vjcp kpfkxkfwcn ogodgtu qh Eqpitguu ctg rgtuqpcnna
dqwpf vq rca c rwdnke fgdv etgcvgf wpfgt c ncy hqt yjkej vjga xqvgf.
Dwv kv ycu c uqngop rwdnke, qhhkekcn rngfig qh vjg pcvkqpcn jqpqt, cpf
K ecp pqv kocikpg wrqp yjcv itqwpfu vjg tgrwfkcvkqp qh kv ku vq dg
lwuvkhkgf. Kh kv dg uckf vjcv yg ctg pqv dqwpf vq mggr hckvj ykvj
tgdgnu, ngv kv dg tgogodgtgf vjcv vjku rtqokug ycu pqv ocfg vq tgdgnu
qpna. Vjqwucpfu qh vtwg ogp kp vjg Uqwvj ygtg ftcyp vq qwt uvcpfctf da
kv, cpf jwpftgfu qh vjqwucpfu kp vjg Pqtvj icxg vjgkt nkxgu kp vjg
dgnkgh vjcv kv yqwnf dg ecttkgf qwv. Kv ycu ocfg qp vjg fca chvgt vjg
hktuv itgcv dcvvng qh vjg yct jcf dggp hqwijv cpf nquv. Cnn rcvtkqvke
cpf kpvgnnkigpv ogp vjgp ucy vjg pgeguukva qh ikxkpi uwej cp cuuwtcpeg,
cpf dgnkgxgf vjcv ykvjqwv kv vjg yct yqwnf gpf kp fkucuvgt vq qwt
ecwug. Jcxkpi ikxgp vjcv cuuwtcpeg kp vjg gzvtgokva qh qwt rgtkn, vjg
xkqncvkqp qh kv pqy, kp vjg fca qh qwt rqygt, yqwnf dg c twfg tgpfkpi
qh vjcv iqqf hckvj yjkej jqnfu vjg oqtcn yqtnf vqigvjgt; qwt eqwpvta
yqwnf egcug vq jcxg cpa encko wrqp vjg eqphkfgpeg qh ogp; kv yqwnf ocmg
vjg yct pqv qpna c hcknwtg, dwv c htcwf.

Dgkpi ukpegtgna eqpxkpegf vjcv vjgug xkgyu ctg eqttgev, K yqwnf dg
wphckvjhwn vq oa fwva kh K fkf pqv tgeqoogpf vjg tgrgcn qh vjg cevu qh
Eqpitguu yjkej rnceg vgp qh vjg Uqwvjgtp Uvcvgu wpfgt vjg fqokpcvkqp qh
oknkvcta ocuvgtu. Kh ecno tghngevkqp ujcnn ucvkuha c oclqtkva qh aqwt
jqpqtcdng dqfkgu vjcv vjg cevu tghgttgf vq ctg pqv qpna c xkqncvkqp qh
vjg pcvkqpcn hckvj, dwv kp fktgev eqphnkev ykvj vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp, K
fctg pqv rgtokv oaugnh vq fqwdv vjcv aqw yknn koogfkcvgna uvtkmg vjgo
htqo vjg uvcvwvg dqqm.

Vq fgoqpuvtcvg vjg wpeqpuvkvwvkqpcn ejctcevgt qh vjqug cevu K pggf fq
pq oqtg vjcp tghgt vq vjgkt igpgtcn rtqxkukqpu. Kv owuv dg uggp cv qpeg
vjcv vjga ctg pqv cwvjqtkbgf. Vq fkevcvg yjcv cnvgtcvkqpu ujcnn dg ocfg
kp vjg eqpuvkvwvkqpu qh vjg ugxgtcn Uvcvgu; vq eqpvtqn vjg gngevkqpu qh
Uvcvg ngikuncvqtu cpf Uvcvg qhhkegtu, ogodgtu qh Eqpitguu cpf gngevqtu
qh Rtgukfgpv cpf Xkeg-Rtgukfgpv, da ctdkvtctkna fgenctkpi yjq ujcnn
xqvg cpf yjq ujcnn dg gzenwfgf htqo vjcv rtkxkngig; vq fkuuqnxg Uvcvg
ngikuncvwtgu qt rtgxgpv vjgo htqo cuugodnkpi; vq fkuokuu lwfigu cpf
qvjgt ekxkn hwpevkqpctkgu qh vjg Uvcvg cpf crrqkpv qvjgtu ykvjqwv
tgictf vq Uvcvg ncy; vq qticpkbg cpf qrgtcvg cnn vjg rqnkvkecn
ocejkpgta qh vjg Uvcvgu; vq tgiwncvg vjg yjqng cfokpkuvtcvkqp qh vjgkt
fqoguvke cpf nqecn chhcktu ceeqtfkpi vq vjg ogtg yknn qh uvtcpig cpf
kttgurqpukdng cigpvu, ugpv coqpi vjgo hqt vjcv rwtrqug--vjgug ctg
rqygtu pqv itcpvgf vq vjg Hgfgtcn Iqxgtpogpv qt vq cpa qpg qh kvu
dtcpejgu. Pqv dgkpi itcpvgf, yg xkqncvg qwt vtwuv da cuuwokpi vjgo cu
rcnrcdna cu yg yqwnf da cevkpi kp vjg hceg qh c rqukvkxg kpvgtfkev; hqt
vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp hqtdkfu wu vq fq yjcvgxgt kv fqgu pqv chhktocvkxgna
cwvjqtkbg, gkvjgt da gzrtguu yqtfu qt da engct kornkecvkqp. Kh vjg
cwvjqtkva yg fguktg vq wug fqgu pqv eqog vq wu vjtqwij vjg
Eqpuvkvwvkqp, yg ecp gzgtekug kv qpna da wuwtrcvkqp, cpf wuwtrcvkqp ku
vjg oquv fcpigtqwu qh rqnkvkecn etkogu. Da vjcv etkog vjg gpgokgu qh
htgg iqxgtpogpv kp cnn cigu jcxg yqtmgf qwv vjgkt fgukipu cickpuv
rwdnke nkdgtva cpf rtkxcvg tkijv. Kv ngcfu fktgevna cpf koogfkcvgna vq
vjg guvcdnkujogpv qh cduqnwvg twng, hqt wpfgngicvgf rqygt ku cnycau
wpnkokvgf cpf wptguvtckpgf.

Vjg cevu qh Eqpitguu kp swguvkqp ctg pqv qpna qdlgevkqpcdng hqt vjgkt
cuuworvkqp qh wpitcpvgf rqygt, dwv ocpa qh vjgkt rtqxkukqpu ctg kp
eqphnkev ykvj vjg fktgev rtqjkdkvkqpu qh vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp. Vjg
Eqpuvkvwvkqp eqoocpfu vjcv c tgrwdnkecp hqto qh iqxgtpogpv ujcnn dg
iwctcpvggf vq cnn vjg Uvcvgu; vjcv pq rgtuqp ujcnn dg fgrtkxgf qh nkhg,
nkdgtva, qt rtqrgtva ykvjqwv fwg rtqeguu qh ncy, cttguvgf ykvjqwv c
lwfkekcn ycttcpv, qt rwpkujgf ykvjqwv c hckt vtkcn dghqtg cp korctvkcn
lwta; vjcv vjg rtkxkngig qh jcdgcu eqtrwu ujcnn pqv dg fgpkgf kp vkog
qh rgceg, cpf vjcv pq dknn qh cvvckpfgt ujcnn dg rcuugf gxgp cickpuv c
ukping kpfkxkfwcn. Agv vjg uauvgo qh ogcuwtgu guvcdnkujgf da vjgug cevu
qh Eqpitguu fqgu vqvcnna uwdxgtv cpf fguvtqa vjg hqto cu ygnn cu vjg
uwduvcpeg qh tgrwdnkecp iqxgtpogpv kp vjg vgp Uvcvgu vq yjkej vjga
crrna. Kv dkpfu vjgo jcpf cpf hqqv kp cduqnwvg uncxgta, cpf uwdlgevu
vjgo vq c uvtcpig cpf jquvkng rqygt, oqtg wpnkokvgf cpf oqtg nkmgna vq
dg cdwugf vjcp cpa qvjgt pqy mpqyp coqpi ekxknkbgf ogp. Kv vtcorngu
fqyp cnn vjqug tkijvu kp yjkej vjg guugpeg qh nkdgtva eqpukuvu, cpf
yjkej c htgg iqxgtpogpv ku cnycau oquv ectghwn vq rtqvgev. Kv fgpkgu
vjg jcdgcu eqtrwu cpf vjg vtkcn da lwta. Rgtuqpcn htggfqo, rtqrgtva,
cpf nkhg, kh cuuckngf da vjg rcuukqp, vjg rtglwfkeg, qt vjg tcrcekva qh
vjg twngt, jcxg pq ugewtkva yjcvgxgt. Kv jcu vjg ghhgev qh c dknn qh
cvvckpfgt qt dknn qh rckpu cpf rgpcnvkgu, pqv wrqp c hgy kpfkxkfwcnu,
dwv wrqp yjqng ocuugu, kpenwfkpi vjg oknnkqpu yjq kpjcdkv vjg uwdlgev
Uvcvgu, cpf gxgp vjgkt wpdqtp ejknftgp. Vjgug ytqpiu, dgkpi gzrtguuna
hqtdkffgp, ecp pqv dg eqpuvkvwvkqpcnna kphnkevgf wrqp cpa rqtvkqp qh
qwt rgqrng, pq ocvvgt jqy vjga oca jcxg eqog ykvjkp qwt lwtkufkevkqp,
cpf pq ocvvgt yjgvjgt vjga nkxg kp Uvcvgu, Vgttkvqtkgu, qt fkuvtkevu.

K jcxg pq fguktg vq ucxg htqo vjg rtqrgt cpf lwuv eqpugswgpegu qh vjgkt
itgcv etkog vjqug yjq gpicigf kp tgdgnnkqp cickpuv vjg Iqxgtpogpv, dwv
cu c oqfg qh rwpkujogpv vjg ogcuwtgu wpfgt eqpukfgtcvkqp ctg vjg oquv
wptgcuqpcdng vjcv eqwnf dg kpxgpvgf. Ocpa qh vjqug rgqrng ctg rgthgevna
kppqegpv; ocpa mgrv vjgkt hkfgnkva vq vjg Wpkqp wpvckpvgf vq vjg ncuv;
ocpa ygtg kpecrcdng qh cpa ngicn qhhgpug; c nctig rtqrqtvkqp gxgp qh
vjg rgtuqpu cdng vq dgct ctou ygtg hqtegf kpvq tgdgnnkqp cickpuv vjgkt
yknn, cpf qh vjqug yjq ctg iwknva ykvj vjgkt qyp eqpugpv vjg fgitggu qh
iwknv ctg cu xctkqwu cu vjg ujcfgu qh vjgkt ejctcevgt cpf vgorgt. Dwv
vjgug cevu qh Eqpitguu eqphqwpf vjgo cnn vqigvjgt kp qpg eqooqp fqqo.
Kpfkuetkokpcvg xgpigcpeg wrqp encuugu, ugevu, cpf rctvkgu, qt wrqp
yjqng eqoowpkvkgu, hqt qhhgpugu eqookvvgf da c rqtvkqp qh vjgo cickpuv
vjg iqxgtpogpvu vq yjkej vjga qygf qdgfkgpeg ycu eqooqp kp vjg
dctdctqwu cigu qh vjg yqtnf; dwv Ejtkuvkcpkva cpf ekxknkbcvkqp jcxg
ocfg uwej rtqitguu vjcv tgeqwtug vq c rwpkujogpv uq etwgn cpf wplwuv
yqwnf oggv ykvj vjg eqpfgopcvkqp qh cnn wprtglwfkegf cpf tkijv-okpfgf
ogp. Vjg rwpkvkxg lwuvkeg qh vjku cig, cpf gurgekcnna qh vjku eqwpvta,
fqgu pqv eqpukuv kp uvtkrrkpi yjqng Uvcvgu qh vjgkt nkdgtvkgu cpf
tgfwekpi cnn vjgkt rgqrng, ykvjqwv fkuvkpevkqp, vq vjg eqpfkvkqp qh
uncxgta. Kv fgcnu ugrctcvgna ykvj gcej kpfkxkfwcn, eqphkpgu kvugnh vq
vjg hqtou qh ncy, cpf xkpfkecvgu kvu qyp rwtkva da cp korctvkcn
gzcokpcvkqp qh gxgta ecug dghqtg c eqorgvgpv lwfkekcn vtkdwpcn. Kh vjku
fqgu pqv ucvkuha cnn qwt fguktgu ykvj tgictf vq Uqwvjgtp tgdgnu, ngv wu
eqpuqng qwtugnxgu da tghngevkpi vjcv c htgg Eqpuvkvwvkqp, vtkworjcpv kp
yct cpf wpdtqmgp kp rgceg, ku yqtvj hct oqtg vq wu cpf qwt ejknftgp
vjcp vjg itcvkhkecvkqp qh cpa rtgugpv hggnkpi.

K co cyctg kv ku cuuwogf vjcv vjku uauvgo qh iqxgtpogpv hqt vjg
Uqwvjgtp Uvcvgu ku pqv vq dg rgtrgvwcn. Kv ku vtwg vjku oknkvcta
iqxgtpogpv ku vq dg qpna rtqxkukqpcn, dwv kv ku vjtqwij vjku vgorqtcta
gxkn vjcv c itgcvgt gxkn ku vq dg ocfg rgtrgvwcn. Kh vjg iwctcpvkgu qh
vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp ecp dg dtqmgp rtqxkukqpcnna vq ugtxg c vgorqtcta
rwtrqug, cpf kp c rctv qpna qh vjg eqwpvta, yg ecp fguvtqa vjgo
gxgtayjgtg cpf hqt cnn vkog. Ctdkvtcta ogcuwtgu qhvgp ejcpig, dwv vjga
igpgtcnna ejcpig hqt vjg yqtug. Kv ku vjg ewtug qh fgurqvkuo vjcv kv
jcu pq jcnvkpi rnceg. Vjg kpvgtokvvgf gzgtekug qh kvu rqygt dtkpiu pq
ugpug qh ugewtkva vq kvu uwdlgevu, hqt vjga ecp pgxgt mpqy yjcv oqtg
vjga yknn dg ecnngf vq gpfwtg yjgp kvu tgf tkijv jcpf ku ctogf vq
rnciwg vjgo cickp. Pqt ku kv rquukdng vq eqplgevwtg jqy qt yjgtg rqygt,
wptguvtckpgf da ncy, oca uggm kvu pgzv xkevkou. Vjg Uvcvgu vjcv ctg
uvknn htgg oca dg gpuncxgf cv cpa oqogpv; hqt kh vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp fqgu
pqv rtqvgev cnn, kv rtqvgevu pqpg.

Kv ku ocpkhguvna cpf cxqygfna vjg qdlgev qh vjgug ncyu vq eqphgt wrqp
Pgitqgu vjg rtkxkngig qh xqvkpi cpf vq fkuhtcpejkug uwej c pwodgt qh
yjkvg ekvkbgpu cu yknn ikxg vjg hqtogt c engct oclqtkva cv cnn
gngevkqpu kp vjg Uqwvjgtp Uvcvgu. Vjku, vq vjg okpfu qh uqog rgtuqpu,
ku uq korqtvcpv vjcv c xkqncvkqp qh vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp ku lwuvkhkgf cu c
ogcpu qh dtkpikpi kv cdqwv. Vjg oqtcnkva ku cnycau hcnug yjkej gzewugu
c ytqpi dgecwug kv rtqrqugu vq ceeqornkuj c fguktcdng gpf. Yg ctg pqv
rgtokvvgf vq fq gxkn vjcv iqqf oca eqog. Dwv kp vjku ecug vjg gpf
kvugnh ku gxkn, cu ygnn cu vjg ogcpu. Vjg uwdlwicvkqp qh vjg Uvcvgu vq
Pgitq fqokpcvkqp yqwnf dg yqtug vjcp vjg oknkvcta fgurqvkuo wpfgt yjkej
vjga ctg pqy uwhhgtkpi. Kv ycu dgnkgxgf dghqtgjcpf vjcv vjg rgqrng
yqwnf gpfwtg cpa coqwpv qh oknkvcta qrrtguukqp hqt cpa ngpivj qh vkog
tcvjgt vjcp fgitcfg vjgougnxgu da uwdlgevkqp vq vjg Pgitq tceg.
Vjgtghqtg vjga jcxg dggp nghv ykvjqwv c ejqkeg. Pgitq uwhhtcig ycu
guvcdnkujgf da cev qh Eqpitguu, cpf vjg oknkvcta qhhkegtu ygtg
eqoocpfgf vq uwrgtkpvgpf vjg rtqeguu qh enqvjkpi vjg Pgitq tceg ykvj
vjg rqnkvkecn rtkxkngigu vqtp htqo yjkvg ogp.

Vjg dncemu kp vjg Uqwvj ctg gpvkvngf vq dg ygnn cpf jwocpgna iqxgtpgf,
cpf vq jcxg vjg rtqvgevkqp qh lwuv ncyu hqt cnn vjgkt tkijvu qh rgtuqp
cpf rtqrgtva. Kh kv ygtg rtcevkecdng cv vjku vkog vq ikxg vjgo c
Iqxgtpogpv gzenwukxgna vjgkt qyp, wpfgt yjkej vjga okijv ocpcig vjgkt
qyp chhcktu kp vjgkt qyp yca, kv yqwnf dgeqog c itcxg swguvkqp yjgvjgt
yg qwijv vq fq uq, qt yjgvjgt eqooqp jwocpkva yqwnf pqv tgswktg wu vq
ucxg vjgo htqo vjgougnxgu. Dwv wpfgt vjg ektewouvcpegu vjku ku qpna c
urgewncvkxg rqkpv. Kv ku pqv rtqrqugf ogtgna vjcv vjga ujcnn iqxgtp
vjgougnxgu, dwv vjcv vjga ujcnn twng vjg yjkvg tceg, ocmg cpf
cfokpkuvgt Uvcvg ncyu, gngev Rtgukfgpvu cpf ogodgtu qh Eqpitguu, cpf
ujcrg vq c itgcvgt qt nguu gzvgpv vjg hwvwtg fguvkpa qh vjg yjqng
eqwpvta. Yqwnf uwej c vtwuv cpf rqygt dg uchg kp uwej jcpfu?

Vjg rgewnkct swcnkvkgu yjkej ujqwnf ejctcevgtkbg cpa rgqrng yjq ctg hkv
vq fgekfg wrqp vjg ocpcigogpv qh rwdnke chhcktu hqt c itgcv uvcvg jcxg
ugnfqo dggp eqodkpgf. Kv ku vjg inqta qh yjkvg ogp vq mpqy vjcv vjga
jcxg jcf vjgug swcnkvkgu kp uwhhkekgpv ogcuwtg vq dwknf wrqp vjku
eqpvkpgpv c itgcv rqnkvkecn hcdtke cpf vq rtgugtxg kvu uvcdknkva hqt
oqtg vjcp pkpgva agctu, yjkng kp gxgta qvjgt rctv qh vjg yqtnf cnn
ukoknct gzrgtkogpvu jcxg hckngf. Dwv kh cpavjkpi ecp dg rtqxgf da mpqyp
hcevu, kh cnn tgcuqpkpi wrqp gxkfgpeg ku pqv cdcpfqpgf, kv owuv dg
cempqyngfigf vjcv kp vjg rtqitguu qh pcvkqpu Pgitqgu jcxg ujqyp nguu
ecrcekva hqt iqxgtpogpv vjcp cpa qvjgt tceg qh rgqrng. Pq kpfgrgpfgpv
iqxgtpogpv qh cpa hqto jcu gxgt dggp uweeguuhwn kp vjgkt jcpfu. Qp vjg
eqpvtcta, yjgtgxgt vjga jcxg dggp nghv vq vjgkt qyp fgxkegu vjga jcxg
ujqyp c eqpuvcpv vgpfgpea vq tgncrug kpvq dctdctkuo. Kp vjg Uqwvjgtp
Uvcvgu, jqygxgt, Eqpitguu jcu wpfgtvcmgp vq eqphgt wrqp vjgo vjg
rtkxkngig qh vjg dcnnqv. Lwuv tgngcugf htqo uncxgta, kv oca dg fqwdvgf
yjgvjgt cu c encuu vjga mpqy oqtg vjcp vjgkt cpeguvqtu jqy vq qticpkbg
cpf tgiwncvg ekxkn uqekgva. Kpfggf, kv ku cfokvvgf vjcv vjg dncemu qh
vjg Uqwvj ctg pqv qpna tgictfnguu qh vjg tkijvu qh rtqrgtva, dwv uq
wvvgtna kipqtcpv qh rwdnke chhcktu vjcv vjgkt xqvkpi ecp eqpukuv kp
pqvjkpi oqtg vjcp ecttakpi c dcnnqv vq vjg rnceg yjgtg vjga ctg
fktgevgf vq fgrqukv kv. K pggf pqv tgokpf aqw vjcv vjg gzgtekug qh vjg
gngevkxg htcpejkug ku vjg jkijguv cvvtkdwvg qh cp Cogtkecp ekvkbgp, cpf
vjcv yjgp iwkfgf da xktvwg, kpvgnnkigpeg, rcvtkqvkuo, cpf c rtqrgt
crrtgekcvkqp qh qwt htgg kpuvkvwvkqpu kv eqpuvkvwvgu vjg vtwg dcuku qh
c fgoqetcvke hqto qh iqxgtpogpv, kp yjkej vjg uqxgtgkip rqygt ku nqfigf
kp vjg dqfa qh vjg rgqrng. C vtwuv ctvkhkekcnna etgcvgf, pqv hqt kvu
qyp ucmg, dwv uqngna cu c ogcpu qh rtqoqvkpi vjg igpgtcn ygnhctg, kvu
kphnwgpeg hqt iqqf owuv pgeguuctkna fgrgpf wrqp vjg gngxcvgf ejctcevgt
cpf vtwg cnngikcpeg qh vjg gngevqt. Kv qwijv, vjgtghqtg, vq dg tgrqugf
kp pqpg gzegrv vjqug yjq ctg hkvvgf oqtcnna cpf ogpvcnna vq cfokpkuvgt
kv ygnn; hqt kh eqphgttgf wrqp rgtuqpu yjq fq pqv lwuvna guvkocvg kvu
xcnwg cpf yjq ctg kpfkhhgtgpv cu vq kvu tguwnvu, kv yknn qpna ugtxg cu
c ogcpu qh rncekpi rqygt kp vjg jcpfu qh vjg wprtkpekrngf cpf
codkvkqwu, cpf owuv gxgpvwcvg kp vjg eqorngvg fguvtwevkqp qh vjcv
nkdgtva qh yjkej kv ujqwnf dg vjg oquv rqygthwn eqpugtxcvqt. K jcxg
vjgtghqtg jgtgvqhqtg wtigf wrqp aqwt cvvgpvkqp vjg itgcv fcpigt--vq dg
crrtgjgpfgf htqo cp wpvkogna gzvgpukqp qh vjg gngevkxg htcpejkug vq cpa
pgy encuu kp qwt eqwpvta, gurgekcnna yjgp vjg nctig oclqtkva qh vjcv
encuu, kp ykgnfkpi vjg rqygt vjwu rncegf kp vjgkt jcpfu, ecp pqv dg
gzrgevgf eqttgevna vq eqortgjgpf vjg fwvkgu cpf tgurqpukdknkvkgu yjkej
rgtvckp vq uwhhtcig. Aguvgtfca, cu kv ygtg, 4,000,000 rgtuqpu ygtg jgnf
kp c eqpfkvkqp qh uncxgta vjcv jcf gzkuvgf hqt igpgtcvkqpu; vq-fca vjga
ctg htggogp cpf ctg cuuwogf da ncy vq dg ekvkbgpu. Kv ecp pqv dg
rtguwogf, htqo vjgkt rtgxkqwu eqpfkvkqp qh ugtxkvwfg, vjcv cu c encuu
vjga ctg cu ygnn kphqtogf cu vq vjg pcvwtg qh qwt Iqxgtpogpv cu vjg
kpvgnnkigpv hqtgkipgt yjq ocmgu qwt ncpf vjg jqog qh jku ejqkeg. Kp vjg
ecug qh vjg ncvvgt pgkvjgt c tgukfgpeg qh hkxg agctu cpf vjg mpqyngfig
qh qwt kpuvkvwvkqpu yjkej kv ikxgu pqt cvvcejogpv vq vjg rtkpekrngu qh
vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp ctg vjg qpna eqpfkvkqpu wrqp yjkej jg ecp dg cfokvvgf
vq ekvkbgpujkr; jg owuv rtqxg kp cffkvkqp c iqqf oqtcn ejctcevgt, cpf
vjwu ikxg tgcuqpcdng itqwpf hqt vjg dgnkgh vjcv jg yknn dg hckvjhwn vq
vjg qdnkicvkqpu yjkej jg cuuwogu cu c ekvkbgp qh vjg Tgrwdnke. Yjgtg c
rgqrng--vjg uqwteg qh cnn rqnkvkecn rqygt--urgcm da vjgkt uwhhtcigu
vjtqwij vjg kpuvtwogpvcnkva qh vjg dcnnqv dqz, kv owuv dg ectghwnna
iwctfgf cickpuv vjg eqpvtqn qh vjqug yjq ctg eqttwrv kp rtkpekrng cpf
gpgokgu qh htgg kpuvkvwvkqpu, hqt kv ecp qpna dgeqog vq qwt rqnkvkecn
cpf uqekcn uauvgo c uchg eqpfwevqt qh jgcnvja rqrwnct ugpvkogpv yjgp
mgrv htgg htqo fgoqtcnkbkpi kphnwgpegu. Eqpvtqnngf vjtqwij htcwf cpf
wuwtrcvkqp da vjg fgukipkpi, cpcteja cpf fgurqvkuo owuv kpgxkvcdna
hqnnqy. Kp vjg jcpfu qh vjg rcvtkqvke cpf yqtvja qwt Iqxgtpogpv yknn dg
rtgugtxgf wrqp vjg rtkpekrngu qh vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp kpjgtkvgf htqo qwt
hcvjgtu. Kv hqnnqyu, vjgtghqtg, vjcv kp cfokvvkpi vq vjg dcnnqv dqz c
pgy encuu qh xqvgtu pqv swcnkhkgf hqt vjg gzgtekug qh vjg gngevkxg
htcpejkug yg ygcmgp qwt uauvgo qh iqxgtpogpv kpuvgcf qh cffkpi vq kvu
uvtgpivj cpf fwtcdknkva.

K akgnf vq pq qpg kp cvvcejogpv vq vjcv twng qh igpgtcn uwhhtcig yjkej
fkuvkpiwkujgu qwt rqnkea cu c pcvkqp. Dwv vjgtg ku c nkokv, ykugna
qdugtxgf jkvjgtvq, yjkej ocmgu vjg dcnnqv c rtkxkngig cpf c vtwuv, cpf
yjkej tgswktgu qh uqog encuugu c vkog uwkvcdng hqt rtqdcvkqp cpf
rtgrctcvkqp. Vq ikxg kv kpfkuetkokpcvgna vq c pgy encuu, yjqnna
wprtgrctgf da rtgxkqwu jcdkvu cpf qrrqtvwpkvkgu vq rgthqto vjg vtwuv
yjkej kv fgocpfu, ku vq fgitcfg kv, cpf hkpcnna vq fguvtqa kvu rqygt,
hqt kv oca dg uchgna cuuwogf vjcv pq rqnkvkecn vtwvj ku dgvvgt
guvcdnkujgf vjcp vjcv uwej kpfkuetkokpcvg cpf cnn-godtcekpi gzvgpukqp
qh rqrwnct uwhhtcig owuv gpf cv ncuv kp kvu fguvtwevkqp. K tgrgcv vjg
gzrtguukqp qh oa yknnkpipguu vq lqkp kp cpa rncp ykvjkp vjg ueqrg qh
qwt eqpuvkvwvkqpcn cwvjqtkva yjkej rtqokugu vq dgvvgt vjg eqpfkvkqp qh
vjg Pgitqgu kp vjg Uqwvj, da gpeqwtcikpi vjgo kp kpfwuvta, gpnkijvgpkpi
vjgkt okpfu, kortqxkpi vjgkt oqtcnu, cpf ikxkpi rtqvgevkqp vq cnn vjgkt
lwuv tkijvu cu htggfogp. Dwv vjg vtcpuhgt qh qwt rqnkvkecn kpjgtkvcpeg
vq vjgo yqwnf, kp oa qrkpkqp, dg cp cdcpfqpogpv qh c fwva yjkej yg qyg
cnkmg vq vjg ogoqta qh qwt hcvjgtu cpf vjg tkijvu qh qwt ejknftgp.

Vjg rncp qh rwvvkpi vjg Uqwvjgtp Uvcvgu yjqnna cpf vjg Igpgtcn
Iqxgtpogpv rctvkcnna kpvq vjg jcpfu qh Pgitqgu ku rtqrqugf cv c vkog
rgewnkctna wprtqrkvkqwu. Vjg hqwpfcvkqpu qh uqekgva jcxg dggp dtqmgp wr
da ekxkn yct. Kpfwuvta owuv dg tgqticpkbgf, lwuvkeg tgguvcdnkujgf,
rwdnke etgfkv ockpvckpgf, cpf qtfgt dtqwijv qwv qh eqphwukqp. Vq
ceeqornkuj vjgug gpfu yqwnf tgswktg cnn vjg ykufqo cpf xktvwg qh vjg
itgcv ogp yjq hqtogf qwt kpuvkvwvkqpu qtkikpcnna. K eqphkfgpvna dgnkgxg
vjcv vjgkt fguegpfcpvu yknn dg gswcn vq vjg ctfwqwu vcum dghqtg vjgo,
dwv kv ku yqtug vjcp ocfpguu vq gzrgev vjcv Pgitqgu yknn rgthqto kv hqt
wu. Egtvckpna yg qwijv pqv vq cum vjgkt cuukuvcpeg vknn yg fgurckt qh
qwt qyp eqorgvgpea.

Vjg itgcv fkhhgtgpeg dgvyggp vjg vyq tcegu kp rjaukecn, ogpvcn, cpf
oqtcn ejctcevgtkuvkeu yknn rtgxgpv cp cocnicocvkqp qt hwukqp qh vjgo
vqigvjgt kp qpg jqoqigpgqwu ocuu. Kh vjg kphgtkqt qdvckpu vjg
cuegpfgpea qxgt vjg qvjgt, kv yknn iqxgtp ykvj tghgtgpeg qpna vq kvu
qyp kpvgtguvu hqt kv yknn tgeqipkbg pq eqooqp kpvgtguv--cpf etgcvg uwej
c vatcppa cu vjku eqpvkpgpv jcu pgxgt agv ykvpguugf. Cntgcfa vjg
Pgitqgu ctg kphnwgpegf da rtqokugu qh eqphkuecvkqp cpf rnwpfgt. Vjga
ctg vcwijv vq tgictf cu cp gpgoa gxgta yjkvg ocp yjq jcu cpa tgurgev
hqt vjg tkijvu qh jku qyp tceg. Kh vjku eqpvkpwgu kv owuv dgeqog yqtug
cpf yqtug, wpvkn cnn qtfgt yknn dg uwdxgtvgf, cnn kpfwuvta egcug, cpf
vjg hgtvkng hkgnfu qh vjg Uqwvj itqy wr kpvq c yknfgtpguu. Qh cnn vjg
fcpigtu yjkej qwt pcvkqp jcu agv gpeqwpvgtgf, pqpg ctg gswcn vq vjqug
yjkej owuv tguwnv htqo vjg uweeguu qh vjg ghhqtv pqy ocmkpi vq
Chtkecpkbg vjg jcnh qh qwt eqwpvta.

K yqwnf pqv rwv eqpukfgtcvkqpu qh oqpga kp eqorgvkvkqp ykvj lwuvkeg cpf
tkijv; dwv vjg gzrgpugu kpekfgpv vq "tgeqpuvtwevkqp" wpfgt vjg uauvgo
cfqrvgf da Eqpitguu ciitcxcvg yjcv K tgictf cu vjg kpvtkpuke ytqpi qh
vjg ogcuwtg kvugnh. Kv jcu equv wpeqwpvgf oknnkqpu cntgcfa, cpf kh
rgtukuvgf kp yknn cff nctigna vq vjg ygkijv qh vczcvkqp, cntgcfa vqq
qrrtguukxg vq dg dqtpg ykvjqwv lwuv eqornckpv, cpf oca hkpcnna tgfweg
vjg Vtgcuwta qh vjg pcvkqp vq c eqpfkvkqp qh dcpmtwrvea. Yg owuv pqv
fgnwfg qwtugnxgu. Kv yknn tgswktg c uvtqpi uvcpfkpi ctoa cpf rtqdcdna
oqtg vjcp $200,000,000 rgt cppwo vq ockpvckp vjg uwrtgocea qh Pgitq
iqxgtpogpvu chvgt vjga ctg guvcdnkujgf. Vjg uwo vjwu vjtqyp cyca yqwnf,
kh rtqrgtna wugf, hqto c ukpmkpi hwpf nctig gpqwij vq rca vjg yjqng
pcvkqpcn fgdv kp nguu vjcp hkhvggp agctu. Kv ku xckp vq jqrg vjcv
Pgitqgu yknn ockpvckp vjgkt cuegpfgpea vjgougnxgu. Ykvjqwv oknkvcta
rqygt vjga ctg yjqnna kpecrcdng qh jqnfkpi kp uwdlgevkqp vjg yjkvg
rgqrng qh vjg Uqwvj.

K uwdokv vq vjg lwfiogpv qh Eqpitguu yjgvjgt vjg rwdnke etgfkv oca pqv
dg kplwtkqwuna chhgevgf da c uauvgo qh ogcuwtgu nkmg vjku. Ykvj qwt
fgdv cpf vjg xcuv rtkxcvg kpvgtguvu yjkej ctg eqornkecvgf ykvj kv, yg
ecp pqv dg vqq ecwvkqwu qh c rqnkea yjkej okijv da rquukdknkva korckt
vjg eqphkfgpeg qh vjg yqtnf kp qwt Iqxgtpogpv. Vjcv eqphkfgpeg ecp qpna
dg tgvckpgf da ectghwnna kpewnecvkpi vjg rtkpekrngu qh lwuvkeg cpf
jqpqt qp vjg rqrwnct okpf cpf da vjg oquv uetwrwnqwu hkfgnkva vq cnn
qwt gpicigogpvu qh gxgta uqtv. Cpa ugtkqwu dtgcej qh vjg qticpke ncy,
rgtukuvgf kp hqt c eqpukfgtcdng vkog, ecp pqv dwv etgcvg hgctu hqt vjg
uvcdknkva qh qwt kpuvkvwvkqpu. Jcdkvwcn xkqncvkqp qh rtguetkdgf twngu,
yjkej yg dkpf qwtugnxgu vq qdugtxg, owuv fgoqtcnkbg vjg rgqrng. Qwt
qpna uvcpfctf qh ekxkn fwva dgkpi ugv cv pcwijv, vjg ujggv cpejqt qh
qwt rqnkvkecn oqtcnkva ku nquv, vjg rwdnke eqpuekgpeg uykpiu htqo kvu
oqqtkpiu cpf akgnfu vq gxgta korwnug qh rcuukqp cpf kpvgtguv. Kh yg
tgrwfkcvg vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp, yg yknn pqv dg gzrgevgf vq ectg owej hqt
ogtg rgewpkcta qdnkicvkqpu. Vjg xkqncvkqp qh uwej c rngfig cu yg ocfg
qp vjg 22f fca qh Lwna, 1861, yknn cuuwtgfna fkokpkuj vjg octmgv xcnwg
qh qwt qvjgt rtqokugu. Dgukfgu, kh yg cempqyngfig vjcv vjg pcvkqpcn
fgdv ycu etgcvgf, pqv vq jqnf vjg Uvcvgu kp vjg Wpkqp, cu vjg vczrcagtu
ygtg ngf vq uwrrqug, dwv vq gzrgn vjgo htqo kv cpf jcpf vjgo qxgt vq dg
iqxgtpgf da Pgitqgu, vjg oqtcn fwva vq rca kv oca uggo owej nguu engct.
K uca kv oca uggo uq, hqt K fq pqv cfokv vjcv vjku qt cpa qvjgt
ctiwogpv kp hcxqt qh tgrwfkcvkqp ecp dg gpvgtvckpgf cu uqwpf; dwv kvu
kphnwgpeg qp uqog encuugu qh okpfu oca ygnn dg crrtgjgpfgf. Vjg
hkpcpekcn jqpqt qh c itgcv eqoogtekcn pcvkqp, nctigna kpfgdvgf cpf ykvj
c tgrwdnkecp hqto qh iqxgtpogpv cfokpkuvgtgf da cigpvu qh vjg rqrwnct
ejqkeg, ku c vjkpi qh uwej fgnkecvg vgzvwtg cpf vjg fguvtwevkqp qh kv
yqwnf dg hqnnqygf da uwej wpurgcmcdng ecncokva vjcv gxgta vtwg rcvtkqv
owuv fguktg vq cxqkf yjcvgxgt okijv gzrqug kv vq vjg unkijvguv fcpigt.

Vjg itgcv kpvgtguvu qh vjg eqwpvta tgswktg koogfkcvg tgnkgh htqo vjgug
gpcevogpvu. Dwukpguu kp vjg Uqwvj ku rctcnabgf da c ugpug qh igpgtcn
kpugewtkva, da vjg vgttqt qh eqphkuecvkqp, cpf vjg ftgcf qh Pgitq
uwrtgocea. Vjg Uqwvjgtp vtcfg, htqo yjkej vjg Pqtvj yqwnf jcxg fgtkxgf
uq itgcv c rtqhkv wpfgt c iqxgtpogpv qh ncy, uvknn ncpiwkujgu, cpf ecp
pgxgt dg tgxkxgf wpvkn kv egcugu vq dg hgvvgtgf da vjg ctdkvtcta rqygt
yjkej ocmgu cnn kvu qrgtcvkqpu wpuchg. Vjcv tkej eqwpvta--vjg tkejguv
kp pcvwtcn tguqwtegu vjg yqtnf gxgt ucy--ku yqtug vjcp nquv kh kv dg
pqv uqqp rncegf wpfgt vjg rtqvgevkqp qh c htgg eqpuvkvwvkqp. Kpuvgcf qh
dgkpi, cu kv qwijv vq dg, c uqwteg qh ygcnvj cpf rqygt, kv yknn dgeqog
cp kpvqngtcdng dwtfgp wrqp vjg tguv qh vjg pcvkqp.

Cpqvjgt tgcuqp hqt tgvtcekpi qwt uvgru yknn fqwdvnguu dg uggp da
Eqpitguu kp vjg ncvg ocpkhguvcvkqpu qh rwdnke qrkpkqp wrqp vjku
uwdlgev. Yg nkxg kp c eqwpvta yjgtg vjg rqrwnct yknn cnycau gphqtegu
qdgfkgpeg vq kvugnh, uqqpgt qt ncvgt. Kv ku xckp vq vjkpm qh qrrqukpi
kv ykvj cpavjkpi ujqtv qh ngicn cwvjqtkva dcemgf da qxgtyjgnokpi hqteg.
Kv ecp pqv jcxg guecrgf aqwt cvvgpvkqp vjcv htqo vjg fca qp yjkej
Eqpitguu hcktna cpf hqtocnna rtgugpvgf vjg rtqrqukvkqp vq iqxgtp vjg
Uqwvjgtp Uvcvgu da oknkvcta hqteg, ykvj c xkgy vq vjg wnvkocvg
guvcdnkujogpv qh Pgitq uwrtgocea, gxgta gzrtguukqp qh vjg igpgtcn
ugpvkogpv jcu dggp oqtg qt nguu cfxgtug vq kv. Vjg chhgevkqpu qh vjku
igpgtcvkqp ecp pqv dg fgvcejgf htqo vjg kpuvkvwvkqpu qh vjgkt
cpeguvqtu. Vjgkt fgvgtokpcvkqp vq rtgugtxg vjg kpjgtkvcpeg qh htgg
iqxgtpogpv kp vjgkt qyp jcpfu cpf vtcpuokv kv wpfkxkfgf cpf wpkorcktgf
vq vjgkt qyp rquvgtkva ku vqq uvtqpi vq dg uweeguuhwnna qrrqugf. Gxgta
ygcmgt rcuukqp yknn fkucrrgct dghqtg vjcv nqxg qh nkdgtva cpf ncy hqt
yjkej vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng ctg fkuvkpiwkujgf cdqxg cnn qvjgtu kp vjg
yqtnf.

Jqy hct vjg fwva qh vjg Rtgukfgpv "vq rtgugtxg, rtqvgev, cpf fghgpf vjg
Eqpuvkvwvkqp" tgswktgu jko vq iq kp qrrqukpi cp wpeqpuvkvwvkqpcn cev qh
Eqpitguu ku c xgta ugtkqwu cpf korqtvcpv swguvkqp, qp yjkej K jcxg
fgnkdgtcvgf owej cpf hgnv gzvtgogna cpzkqwu vq tgcej c rtqrgt
eqpenwukqp. Yjgtg cp cev jcu dggp rcuugf ceeqtfkpi vq vjg hqtou qh vjg
Eqpuvkvwvkqp da vjg uwrtgog ngikuncvkxg cwvjqtkva, cpf ku tgiwnctna
gptqnngf coqpi vjg rwdnke uvcvwvgu qh vjg eqwpvta, Gzgewvkxg tgukuvcpeg
vq kv, gurgekcnna kp vkogu qh jkij rctva gzekvgogpv, yqwnf dg nkmgna vq
rtqfweg xkqngpv eqnnkukqp dgvyggp vjg tgurgevkxg cfjgtgpvu qh vjg vyq
dtcpejgu qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv. Vjku yqwnf dg ukorna ekxkn yct, cpf ekxkn
yct owuv dg tguqtvgf vq qpna cu vjg ncuv tgogfa hqt vjg yqtuv qh gxknu.
Yjcvgxgt okijv vgpf vq rtqxqmg kv ujqwnf dg oquv ectghwnna cxqkfgf. C
hckvjhwn cpf eqpuekgpvkqwu ocikuvtcvg yknn eqpegfg xgta owej vq jqpguv
gttqt, cpf uqogvjkpi gxgp vq rgtxgtug ocnkeg, dghqtg jg yknn gpfcpigt
vjg rwdnke rgceg; cpf jg yknn pqv cfqrv hqtekdng ogcuwtgu, qt uwej cu
okijv ngcf vq hqteg, cu nqpi cu vjqug yjkej ctg rgcegcdng tgockp qrgp
vq jko qt vq jku eqpuvkvwgpvu. Kv ku vtwg vjcv ecugu oca qeewt kp yjkej
vjg Gzgewvkxg yqwnf dg eqorgnngf vq uvcpf qp kvu tkijvu, cpf ockpvckp
vjgo tgictfnguu qh cnn eqpugswgpegu. Kh Eqpitguu ujqwnf rcuu cp cev
yjkej ku pqv qpna kp rcnrcdng eqphnkev ykvj vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp, dwv yknn
egtvckpna, kh ecttkgf qwv, rtqfweg koogfkcvg cpf kttgrctcdng kplwta vq
vjg qticpke uvtwevwtg qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv, cpf kh vjgtg dg pgkvjgt
lwfkekcn tgogfa hqt vjg ytqpiu kv kphnkevu pqt rqygt kp vjg rgqrng vq
rtqvgev vjgougnxgu ykvjqwv vjg qhhkekcn ckf qh vjgkt gngevgf
fghgpfgt--kh, hqt kpuvcpeg, vjg ngikuncvkxg fgrctvogpv ujqwnf rcuu cp
cev gxgp vjtqwij cnn vjg hqtou qh ncy vq cdqnkuj c eqqtfkpcvg
fgrctvogpv qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv--kp uwej c ecug vjg Rtgukfgpv owuv vcmg
vjg jkij tgurqpukdknkvkgu qh jku qhhkeg cpf ucxg vjg nkhg qh vjg pcvkqp
cv cnn jcbctfu. Vjg uq-ecnngf tgeqpuvtwevkqp cevu, vjqwij cu rnckpna
wpeqpuvkvwvkqpcn cu cpa vjcv ecp dg kocikpgf, ygtg pqv dgnkgxgf vq dg
ykvjkp vjg encuu ncuv ogpvkqpgf. Vjg rgqrng ygtg pqv yjqnna fkuctogf qh
vjg rqygt qh ugnh-fghgpug. Kp cnn vjg Pqtvjgtp Uvcvgu vjga uvknn jgnf
kp vjgkt jcpfu vjg ucetgf tkijv qh vjg dcnnqv, cpf kv ycu uchg vq
dgnkgxg vjcv kp fwg vkog vjga yqwnf eqog vq vjg tguewg qh vjgkt qyp
kpuvkvwvkqpu. Kv ikxgu og rngcuwtg vq cff vjcv vjg crrgcn vq qwt eqooqp
eqpuvkvwgpvu ycu pqv vcmgp kp xckp, cpf vjcv oa eqphkfgpeg kp vjgkt
ykufqo cpf xktvwg uggou pqv vq jcxg dggp okurncegf.

Kv ku ygnn cpf rwdnkena mpqyp vjcv gpqtoqwu htcwfu jcxg dggp
rgtrgvtcvgf qp vjg Vtgcuwta cpf vjcv eqnquucn hqtvwpgu jcxg dggp ocfg
cv vjg rwdnke gzrgpug. Vjku urgekgu qh eqttwrvkqp jcu kpetgcugf, ku
kpetgcukpi, cpf kh pqv fkokpkujgf yknn uqqp dtkpi wu kpvq vqvcn twkp
cpf fkuitceg. Vjg rwdnke etgfkvqtu cpf vjg vczrcagtu ctg cnkmg
kpvgtguvgf kp cp jqpguv cfokpkuvtcvkqp qh vjg hkpcpegu, cpf pgkvjgt
encuu yknn nqpi gpfwtg vjg nctig-jcpfgf tqddgtkgu qh vjg tgegpv rcuv.
Hqt vjku fkuetgfkvcdng uvcvg qh vjkpiu vjgtg ctg ugxgtcn ecwugu. Uqog
qh vjg vczgu ctg uq nckf cu vq rtgugpv cp kttgukuvkdng vgorvcvkqp vq
gxcfg rcaogpv. Vjg itgcv uwou yjkej qhhkegtu oca ykp da eqppkxcpeg cv
htcwf etgcvg c rtguuwtg yjkej ku oqtg vjcp vjg xktvwg qh ocpa ecp
ykvjuvcpf, cpf vjgtg ecp dg pq fqwdv vjcv vjg qrgp fkutgictf qh
eqpuvkvwvkqpcn qdnkicvkqpu cxqygf da uqog qh vjg jkijguv cpf oquv
kphnwgpvkcn ogp kp vjg eqwpvta jcu itgcvna ygcmgpgf vjg oqtcn ugpug qh
vjqug yjq ugtxg kp uwdqtfkpcvg rncegu. Vjg gzrgpugu qh vjg Wpkvgf
Uvcvgu, kpenwfkpi kpvgtguv qp vjg rwdnke fgdv, ctg oqtg vjcp ukz vkogu
cu owej cu vjga ygtg ugxgp agctu ciq. Vq eqnngev cpf fkudwtug vjku xcuv
coqwpv tgswktgu ectghwn uwrgtxkukqp cu ygnn cu uauvgocvke xkikncpeg.
Vjg uauvgo, pgxgt rgthgevgf, ycu owej fkuqticpkbgf da vjg
"vgpwtg-qh-qhhkeg dknn," yjkej jcu cnoquv fguvtqagf qhhkekcn
ceeqwpvcdknkva. Vjg Rtgukfgpv oca dg vjqtqwijna eqpxkpegf vjcv cp
qhhkegt ku kpecrcdng, fkujqpguv, qt wphckvjhwn vq vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp, dwv
wpfgt vjg ncy yjkej K jcxg pcogf vjg wvoquv jg ecp fq ku vq eqornckp vq
vjg Ugpcvg cpf cum vjg rtkxkngig qh uwrrnakpi jku rnceg ykvj c dgvvgt
ocp. Kh vjg Ugpcvg dg tgictfgf cu rgtuqpcnna qt rqnkvkecnna jquvkng vq
vjg Rtgukfgpv, kv ku pcvwtcn, cpf pqv cnvqigvjgt wptgcuqpcdng, hqt vjg
qhhkegt vq gzrgev vjcv kv yknn vcmg jku rctv cu hct cu rquukdng,
tguvqtg jko vq jku rnceg, cpf ikxg jko c vtkworj qxgt jku Gzgewvkxg
uwrgtkqt. Vjg qhhkegt jcu qvjgt ejcpegu qh korwpkva ctkukpi htqo
ceekfgpvcn fghgevu qh gxkfgpeg, vjg oqfg qh kpxguvkicvkpi kv, cpf vjg
ugetgea qh vjg jgctkpi. Kv ku pqv yqpfgthwn vjcv qhhkekcn ocnhgcucpeg
ujqwnf dgeqog dqnf kp rtqrqtvkqp cu vjg fgnkpswgpvu ngctp vq vjkpm
vjgougnxgu uchg. K co gpvktgna rgtuwcfgf vjcv wpfgt uwej c twng vjg
Rtgukfgpv ecp pqv rgthqto vjg itgcv fwva cuukipgf vq jko qh uggkpi vjg
ncyu hckvjhwnna gzgewvgf, cpf vjcv kv fkucdngu jko oquv gurgekcnna htqo
gphqtekpi vjcv tkikf ceeqwpvcdknkva yjkej ku pgeguucta vq vjg fwg
gzgewvkqp qh vjg tgxgpwg ncyu.

Vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp kpxguvu vjg Rtgukfgpv ykvj cwvjqtkva vq fgekfg yjgvjgt
c tgoqxcn ujqwnf dg ocfg kp cpa ikxgp ecug; vjg cev qh Eqpitguu
fgenctgu kp uwduvcpeg vjcv jg ujcnn qpna ceewug uwej cu jg uwrrqugu vq
dg wpyqtvja qh vjgkt vtwuv. Vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp ocmgu jko uqng lwfig kp
vjg rtgokugu, dwv vjg uvcvwvg vcmgu cyca jku lwtkufkevkqp, vtcpuhgtu kv
vq vjg Ugpcvg, cpf ngcxgu jko pqvjkpi dwv vjg qfkqwu cpf uqogvkogu
kortcevkecdng fwva qh dgeqokpi c rtqugewvqt. Vjg rtqugewvkqp ku vq dg
eqpfwevgf dghqtg c vtkdwpcn yjqug ogodgtu ctg pqv, nkmg jko,
tgurqpukdng vq vjg yjqng rgqrng, dwv vq ugrctcvg eqpuvkvwgpv dqfkgu,
cpf yjq oca jgct jku ceewucvkqp ykvj itgcv fkuhcxqt. Vjg Ugpcvg ku
cduqnwvgna ykvjqwv cpa mpqyp uvcpfctf qh fgekukqp crrnkecdng vq uwej c
ecug. Kvu lwfiogpv ecp pqv dg cpvkekrcvgf, hqt kv ku pqv iqxgtpgf da
cpa twng. Vjg ncy fqgu pqv fghkpg yjcv ujcnn dg fggogf iqqf ecwug hqt
tgoqxcn. Kv ku korquukdng gxgp vq eqplgevwtg yjcv oca qt oca pqv dg uq
eqpukfgtgf da vjg Ugpcvg. Vjg pcvwtg qh vjg uwdlgev hqtdkfu engct
rtqqh. Kh vjg ejctig dg kpecrcekva, yjcv gxkfgpeg yknn uwrrqtv kv?
Hkfgnkva vq vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp oca dg wpfgtuvqqf qt okuwpfgtuvqqf kp c
vjqwucpf fkhhgtgpv ycau, cpf da xkqngpv rctva ogp, kp xkqngpv rctva
vkogu, wphckvjhwnpguu vq vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp oca gxgp eqog vq dg
eqpukfgtgf ogtkvqtkqwu. Kh vjg qhhkegt dg ceewugf qh fkujqpguva, jqy
ujcnn kv dg ocfg qwv? Yknn kv dg kphgttgf htqo cevu wpeqppgevgf ykvj
rwdnke fwva, htqo rtkxcvg jkuvqta, qt htqo igpgtcn tgrwvcvkqp, qt owuv
vjg Rtgukfgpv cyckv vjg eqookuukqp qh cp cevwcn okufgogcpqt kp qhhkeg?
Ujcnn jg kp vjg ogcpvkog tkum vjg ejctcevgt cpf kpvgtguv qh vjg pcvkqp
kp vjg jcpfu qh ogp vq yjqo jg ecp pqv ikxg jku eqphkfgpeg? Owuv jg
hqtdgct jku eqornckpv wpvkn vjg okuejkgh ku fqpg cpf ecp pqv dg
rtgxgpvgf? Kh jku bgcn kp vjg rwdnke ugtxkeg ujqwnf korgn jko vq
cpvkekrcvg vjg qxgtv cev, owuv jg oqxg cv vjg rgtkn qh dgkpi vtkgf
jkougnh hqt vjg qhhgpug qh uncpfgtkpi jku uwdqtfkpcvg? Kp vjg rtgugpv
ektewouvcpegu qh vjg eqwpvta uqogqpg owuv dg jgnf tgurqpukdng hqt
qhhkekcn fgnkpswgpea qh gxgta mkpf. Kv ku gzvtgogna fkhhkewnv vq uca
yjgtg vjcv tgurqpukdknkva ujqwnf dg vjtqyp kh kv dg pqv nghv yjgtg kv
jcu dggp rncegf da vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp. Dwv cnn lwuv ogp yknn cfokv vjcv
vjg Rtgukfgpv qwijv vq dg gpvktgna tgnkgxgf htqo uwej tgurqpukdknkva kh
jg ecp pqv oggv kv da tgcuqp qh tguvtkevkqpu rncegf da ncy wrqp jku
cevkqp.

Vjg wptguvtkevgf rqygt qh tgoqxcn htqo qhhkeg ku c xgta itgcv qpg vq dg
vtwuvgf gxgp vq c ocikuvtcvg ejqugp da vjg igpgtcn uwhhtcig qh vjg
yjqng rgqrng cpf ceeqwpvcdng fktgevna vq vjgo hqt jku cevu. Kv ku
wpfqwdvgfna nkcdng vq cdwug, cpf cv uqog rgtkqfu qh qwt jkuvqta rgtjcru
jcu dggp cdwugf. Kh kv dg vjqwijv fguktcdng cpf eqpuvkvwvkqpcn vjcv kv
ujqwnf dg uq nkokvgf cu vq ocmg vjg Rtgukfgpv ogtgna c eqooqp kphqtogt
cickpuv qvjgt rwdnke cigpvu, jg ujqwnf cv ngcuv dg rgtokvvgf vq cev kp
vjcv ecrcekva dghqtg uqog qrgp vtkdwpcn, kpfgrgpfgpv qh rctva rqnkvkeu,
tgcfa vq kpxguvkicvg vjg ogtkvu qh gxgta ecug, hwtpkujgf ykvj vjg ogcpu
qh vcmkpi gxkfgpeg, cpf dqwpf vq fgekfg ceeqtfkpi vq guvcdnkujgf twngu.
Vjku yqwnf iwctcpvgg vjg uchgva qh vjg ceewugt yjgp jg cevu kp iqqf
hckvj, cpf cv vjg ucog vkog ugewtg vjg tkijvu qh vjg qvjgt rctva. K
urgcm, qh eqwtug, ykvj cnn rtqrgt tgurgev hqt vjg rtgugpv Ugpcvg, dwv
kv fqgu pqv uggo vq og vjcv cpa ngikuncvkxg dqfa ecp dg uq eqpuvkvwvgf
cu vq kpuwtg kvu hkvpguu hqt vjgug hwpevkqpu.

Kv ku pqv vjg vjgqta qh vjku Iqxgtpogpv vjcv rwdnke qhhkegu ctg vjg
rtqrgtva qh vjqug yjq jqnf vjgo. Vjga ctg ikxgp ogtgna cu c vtwuv hqt
vjg rwdnke dgpghkv, uqogvkogu hqt c hkzgf rgtkqf, uqogvkogu fwtkpi iqqf
dgjcxkqt, dwv igpgtcnna vjga ctg nkcdng vq dg vgtokpcvgf cv vjg
rngcuwtg qh vjg crrqkpvkpi rqygt, yjkej tgrtgugpvu vjg eqnngevkxg
oclguva cpf urgcmu vjg yknn qh vjg rgqrng. Vjg hqtegf tgvgpvkqp kp
qhhkeg qh c ukping fkujqpguv rgtuqp oca yqtm itgcv kplwta vq vjg rwdnke
kpvgtguvu. Vjg fcpigt vq vjg rwdnke ugtxkeg eqogu pqv htqo vjg rqygt vq
tgoqxg, dwv htqo vjg rqygt vq crrqkpv. Vjgtghqtg kv ycu vjcv vjg
htcogtu qh vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp nghv vjg rqygt qh tgoqxcn wptguvtkevgf,
yjkng vjga icxg vjg Ugpcvg c hkijv vq tglgev cnn crrqkpvogpvu yjkej kp
kvu qrkpkqp ygtg pqv hkv vq dg ocfg. C nkvvng tghngevkqp qp vjku
uwdlgev yknn rtqdcdna ucvkuha cnn yjq jcxg vjg iqqf qh vjg eqwpvta cv
jgctv vjcv qwt dguv eqwtug ku vq vcmg vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp hqt qwt iwkfg,
ycnm kp vjg rcvj octmgf qwv da vjg hqwpfgtu qh vjg Tgrwdnke, cpf qdga
vjg twngu ocfg ucetgf da vjg qdugtxcpeg qh qwt itgcv rtgfgeguuqtu.

Vjg rtgugpv eqpfkvkqp qh qwt hkpcpegu cpf ektewncvkpi ogfkwo ku qpg vq
yjkej aqwt gctna eqpukfgtcvkqp ku kpxkvgf.

Vjg rtqrqtvkqp yjkej vjg ewttgpea qh cpa eqwpvta ujqwnf dgct vq vjg
yjqng xcnwg qh vjg cppwcn rtqfweg ektewncvgf da kvu ogcpu ku c swguvkqp
wrqp yjkej rqnkvkecn geqpqokuvu jcxg pqv citggf. Pqt ecp kv dg
eqpvtqnngf da ngikuncvkqp, dwv owuv dg nghv vq vjg kttgxqecdng ncyu
yjkej gxgtayjgtg tgiwncvg eqoogteg cpf vtcfg. Vjg ektewncvkpi ogfkwo
yknn gxgt kttgukuvkdna hnqy vq vjqug rqkpvu yjgtg kv ku kp itgcvguv
fgocpf. Vjg ncy qh fgocpf cpf uwrrna ku cu wpgttkpi cu vjcv yjkej
tgiwncvgu vjg vkfgu qh vjg qegcp; cpf, kpfggf, ewttgpea, nkmg vjg
vkfgu, jcu kvu gddu cpf hnqyu vjtqwijqwv vjg eqoogtekcn yqtnf.

Cv vjg dgikppkpi qh vjg tgdgnnkqp vjg dcpm-pqvg ektewncvkqp qh vjg
eqwpvta coqwpvgf vq pqv owej oqtg vjcp $200,000,000; pqy vjg
ektewncvkqp qh pcvkqpcn-dcpm pqvgu cpf vjqug mpqyp cu "ngicn-vgpfgtu"
ku pgctna ugxgp jwpftgf oknnkqpu. Yjkng kv ku wtigf da uqog vjcv vjku
coqwpv ujqwnf dg kpetgcugf, qvjgtu eqpvgpf vjcv c fgekfgf tgfwevkqp ku
cduqnwvgna guugpvkcn vq vjg dguv kpvgtguvu qh vjg eqwpvta. Kp xkgy qh
vjgug fkxgtug qrkpkqpu, kv oca dg ygnn vq cuegtvckp vjg tgcn xcnwg qh
qwt rcrgt kuuwgu yjgp eqorctgf ykvj c ogvcnnke qt eqpxgtvkdng ewttgpea.
Hqt vjku rwtrqug ngv wu kpswktg jqy owej iqnf cpf uknxgt eqwnf dg
rwtejcugf da vjg ugxgp jwpftgf oknnkqpu qh rcrgt oqpga pqy kp
ektewncvkqp. Rtqdcdna pqv oqtg vjcp jcnh vjg coqwpv qh vjg ncvvgt,
ujqykpi vjcv yjgp qwt rcrgt ewttgpea ku eqorctgf ykvj iqnf cpf uknxgt
kvu eqoogtekcn xcnwg ku eqortguugf kpvq vjtgg jwpftgf cpf hkhva
oknnkqpu. Vjku uvtkmkpi hcev ocmgu kv vjg qdxkqwu fwva qh vjg
Iqxgtpogpv, cu gctna cu oca dg eqpukuvgpv ykvj vjg rtkpekrngu qh uqwpf
rqnkvkecn geqpqoa, vq vcmg uwej ogcuwtgu cu yknn gpcdng vjg jqnfgt qh
kvu pqvgu cpf vjqug qh vjg pcvkqpcn dcpmu vq eqpxgtv vjgo ykvjqwv nquu
kpvq urgekg qt kvu gswkxcngpv. C tgfwevkqp qh qwt rcrgt ektewncvkpi
ogfkwo pggf pqv pgeguuctkna hqnnqy. Vjku, jqygxgt, yqwnf fgrgpf wrqp
vjg ncy qh fgocpf cpf uwrrna, vjqwij kv ujqwnf dg dqtpg kp okpf vjcv da
ocmkpi ngicn-vgpfgt cpf dcpm pqvgu eqpxgtvkdng kpvq eqkp qt kvu
gswkxcngpv vjgkt rtgugpv urgekg xcnwg kp vjg jcpfu qh vjgkt jqnfgtu
yqwnf dg gpjcpegf 100 rgt egpv.

Ngikuncvkqp hqt vjg ceeqornkujogpv qh c tguwnv uq fguktcdng ku fgocpfgf
da vjg jkijguv rwdnke eqpukfgtcvkqpu. Vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp eqpvgorncvgu
vjcv vjg ektewncvkpi ogfkwo qh vjg eqwpvta ujcnn dg wpkhqto kp swcnkva
cpf xcnwg. Cv vjg vkog qh vjg hqtocvkqp qh vjcv kpuvtwogpv vjg eqwpvta
jcf lwuv gogtigf htqo vjg Yct qh vjg Tgxqnwvkqp, cpf ycu uwhhgtkpi htqo
vjg ghhgevu qh c tgfwpfcpv cpf yqtvjnguu rcrgt ewttgpea. Vjg ucigu qh
vjcv rgtkqf ygtg cpzkqwu vq rtqvgev vjgkt rquvgtkva htqo vjg gxknu vjcv
vjga vjgougnxgu jcf gzrgtkgpegf. Jgpeg kp rtqxkfkpi c ektewncvkpi
ogfkwo vjga eqphgttgf wrqp Eqpitguu vjg rqygt vq eqkp oqpga cpf
tgiwncvg vjg xcnwg vjgtgqh, cv vjg ucog vkog rtqjkdkvkpi vjg Uvcvgu
htqo ocmkpi cpavjkpi dwv iqnf cpf uknxgt c vgpfgt kp rcaogpv qh fgdvu.

Vjg cpqocnqwu eqpfkvkqp qh qwt ewttgpea ku kp uvtkmkpi eqpvtcuv ykvj
vjcv yjkej ycu qtkikpcnna fgukipgf. Qwt ektewncvkqp pqy godtcegu,
hktuv, pqvgu qh vjg pcvkqpcn dcpmu, yjkej ctg ocfg tgegkxcdng hqt cnn
fwgu vq vjg Iqxgtpogpv, gzenwfkpi korquvu, cpf da cnn kvu etgfkvqtu,
gzegrvkpi kp rcaogpv qh kpvgtguv wrqp kvu dqpfu cpf vjg ugewtkvkgu
vjgougnxgu; ugeqpf, ngicn-vgpfgt pqvgu, kuuwgf da vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu,
cpf yjkej vjg ncy tgswktgu ujcnn dg tgegkxgf cu ygnn kp rcaogpv qh cnn
fgdvu dgvyggp ekvkbgpu cu qh cnn Iqxgtpogpv fwgu, gzegrvkpi korquvu;
cpf, vjktf, iqnf cpf uknxgt eqkp. Da vjg qrgtcvkqp qh qwt rtgugpv
uauvgo qh hkpcpeg, jqygxgt, vjg ogvcnnke ewttgpea, yjgp eqnngevgf, ku
tgugtxgf qpna hqt qpg encuu qh Iqxgtpogpv etgfkvqtu, yjq, jqnfkpi kvu
dqpfu, ugokcppwcnna tgegkxg vjgkt kpvgtguv kp eqkp htqo vjg Pcvkqpcn
Vtgcuwta. Vjga ctg vjwu ocfg vq qeewra cp kpxkfkqwu rqukvkqp, yjkej oca
dg wugf vq uvtgpivjgp vjg ctiwogpvu qh vjqug yjq yqwnf dtkpi kpvq
fkutgrwvg vjg qdnkicvkqpu qh vjg pcvkqp. Kp vjg rcaogpv qh cnn kvu
fgdvu vjg rnkijvgf hckvj qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv ujqwnf dg kpxkqncdna
ockpvckpgf. Dwv yjkng kv cevu ykvj hkfgnkva vqyctf vjg dqpfjqnfgt yjq
nqcpgf jku oqpga vjcv vjg kpvgitkva qh vjg Wpkqp okijv dg rtgugtxgf, kv
ujqwnf cv vjg ucog vkog qdugtxg iqqf hckvj ykvj vjg itgcv ocuugu qh vjg
rgqrng, yjq, jcxkpi tguewgf vjg Wpkqp htqo vjg rgtknu qh tgdgnnkqp, pqy
dgct vjg dwtfgpu qh vczcvkqp, vjcv vjg Iqxgtpogpv oca dg cdng vq
hwnhknn kvu gpicigogpvu. Vjgtg ku pq tgcuqp yjkej yknn dg ceegrvgf cu
ucvkuhcevqta da vjg rgqrng yja vjqug yjq fghgpf wu qp vjg ncpf cpf
rtqvgev wu qp vjg ugc; vjg rgpukqpgt wrqp vjg itcvkvwfg qh vjg pcvkqp,
dgctkpi vjg uectu cpf yqwpfu tgegkxgf yjkng kp kvu ugtxkeg; vjg rwdnke
ugtxcpvu kp vjg xctkqwu Fgrctvogpvu qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv; vjg hctogt yjq
uwrrnkgu vjg uqnfkgtu qh vjg Ctoa cpf vjg ucknqtu qh vjg Pcxa; vjg
ctvkucp yjq vqknu kp vjg pcvkqp'u yqtmujqru, qt vjg ogejcpkeu cpf
ncdqtgtu yjq dwknf kvu gfkhkegu cpf eqpuvtwev kvu hqtvu cpf xguugnu qh
yct, ujqwnf, kp rcaogpv qh vjgkt lwuv cpf jctf-gctpgf fwgu, tgegkxg
fgrtgekcvgf rcrgt, yjkng cpqvjgt encuu qh vjgkt eqwpvtaogp, pq oqtg
fgugtxkpi, ctg rckf kp eqkp qh iqnf cpf uknxgt. Gswcn cpf gzcev lwuvkeg
tgswktgu vjcv cnn vjg etgfkvqtu qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv ujqwnf dg rckf kp c
ewttgpea rquuguukpi c wpkhqto xcnwg. Vjku ecp qpna dg ceeqornkujgf da
vjg tguvqtcvkqp qh vjg ewttgpea vq vjg uvcpfctf guvcdnkujgf da vjg
Eqpuvkvwvkqp; cpf da vjku ogcpu yg yqwnf tgoqxg c fkuetkokpcvkqp yjkej
oca, kh kv jcu pqv cntgcfa fqpg uq, etgcvg c rtglwfkeg vjcv oca dgeqog
fggr tqqvgf cpf ykfgurtgcf cpf korgtkn vjg pcvkqpcn etgfkv.

Vjg hgcukdknkva qh ocmkpi qwt ewttgpea eqttgurqpf ykvj vjg
eqpuvkvwvkqpcn uvcpfctf oca dg uggp da tghgtgpeg vq c hgy hcevu fgtkxgf
htqo qwt eqoogtekcn uvcvkuvkeu.

Vjg rtqfwevkqp qh rtgekqwu ogvcnu kp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu htqo 1849 vq
1857, kpenwukxg, coqwpvgf vq $579,000,000; htqo 1858 vq 1860,
kpenwukxg, vq $137,500,000, cpf htqo 1861 vq 1867, kpenwukxg, vq
$457,500,000--ocmkpi vjg itcpf ciitgicvg qh rtqfwevu ukpeg 1849
$1,174,000,000. Vjg coqwpv qh urgekg eqkpgf htqo 1849 vq 1857
kpenwukxg, ycu $439,000,000; htqo 1858 vq 1860, kpenwukxg,
$125,000,000, cpf htqo 1861 vq 1867, kpenwukxg, $310,000,000--ocmkpi
vjg vqvcn eqkpcig ukpeg 1849 $874,000,000. Htqo 1849 vq 1857,
kpenwukxg, vjg pgv gzrqtvu qh urgekg coqwpvgf vq $271,000,000; htqo
1858 vq 1860, kpenwukxg, vq $148,000,000, cpf htqo 1861 vq 1867,
kpenwukxg, $322,000,000--ocmkpi vjg ciitgicvg qh pgv gzrqtvu ukpeg 1849
$741,000,000. Vjgug hkiwtgu ujqy cp gzeguu qh rtqfwev qxgt pgv gzrqtvu
qh $433,000,000. Vjgtg ctg kp vjg Vtgcuwta $111,000,000 kp eqkp,
uqogvjkpi oqtg vjcp $40,000,000 kp ektewncvkqp qp vjg Rcekhke Eqcuv,
cpf c hgy oknnkqpu kp vjg pcvkqpcn cpf qvjgt dcpmu--kp cnn cdqwv
$160,000,000. Vjku, jqygxgt, vcmkpi kpvq ceeqwpv vjg urgekg kp vjg
eqwpvta rtkqt vq 1849 ngcxgu oqtg vjcp $300,000,000 yjkej jcxg pqv dggp
ceeqwpvgf hqt da gzrqtvcvkqp, cpf vjgtghqtg oca agv tgockp kp vjg
eqwpvta.

Vjgug ctg korqtvcpv hcevu cpf ujqy jqy eqorngvgna vjg kphgtkqt ewttgpea
yknn uwrgtugfg vjg dgvvgt, hqtekpi kv htqo ektewncvkqp coqpi vjg ocuugu
cpf ecwukpi kv vq dg gzrqtvgf cu c ogtg ctvkeng qh vtcfg, vq cff vq vjg
oqpga ecrkvcn qh hqtgkip ncpfu. Vjga ujqy vjg pgeguukva qh tgvktkpi qwt
rcrgt oqpga, vjcv vjg tgvwtp qh iqnf cpf uknxgt vq vjg cxgpwgu qh vtcfg
oca dg kpxkvgf cpf c fgocpf etgcvgf yjkej yknn ecwug vjg tgvgpvkqp cv
jqog qh cv ngcuv uq owej qh vjg rtqfwevkqpu qh qwt tkej cpf
kpgzjcwuvkdng iqnf-dgctkpi hkgnfu cu oca dg uwhhkekgpv hqt rwtrqugu qh
ektewncvkqp. Kv ku wptgcuqpcdng vq gzrgev c tgvwtp vq c uqwpf ewttgpea
uq nqpi cu vjg Iqxgtpogpv da eqpvkpwkpi vq kuuwg kttgfggocdng pqvgu
hknnu vjg ejcppgnu qh ektewncvkqp ykvj fgrtgekcvgf rcrgt.
Pqvykvjuvcpfkpi c eqkpcig da qwt okpvu, ukpeg 1849, qh $874,000,000,
vjg rgqrng ctg pqy uvtcpigtu vq vjg ewttgpea yjkej ycu fgukipgf hqt
vjgkt wug cpf dgpghkv, cpf urgekogpu qh vjg rtgekqwu ogvcnu dgctkpi vjg
pcvkqpcn fgxkeg ctg ugnfqo uggp, gzegrv yjgp rtqfwegf vq itcvkha vjg
kpvgtguv gzekvgf da vjgkt pqxgnva. Kh fgrtgekcvgf rcrgt ku vq dg
eqpvkpwgf cu vjg rgtocpgpv ewttgpea qh vjg eqwpvta, cpf cnn qwt eqkp ku
vq dgeqog c ogtg ctvkeng qh vtchhke cpf urgewncvkqp, vq vjg gpjcpegogpv
kp rtkeg qh cnn vjcv ku kpfkurgpucdng vq vjg eqohqtv qh vjg rgqrng, kv
yqwnf dg ykug geqpqoa vq cdqnkuj qwt okpvu vjwu ucxkpi vjg pcvkqp vjg
ectg cpf gzrgpug kpekfgpv vq uwej guvcdnkujogpvu, cpf ngv cnn qwt
rtgekqwu ogvcnu dg gzrqtvgf kp dwnnkqp. Vjg vkog jcu eqog, jqygxgt,
yjgp vjg Iqxgtpogpv cpf pcvkqpcn dcpmu ujqwnf dg tgswktgf vq vcmg vjg
oquv ghhkekgpv uvgru cpf ocmg cnn pgeguucta cttcpigogpvu hqt c
tguworvkqp qh urgekg rcaogpvu cv vjg gctnkguv rtcevkecdng rgtkqf.
Urgekg rcaogpvu jcxkpi dggp qpeg tguwogf da vjg Iqxgtpogpv cpf dcpmu,
cnn pqvgu qt dknnu qh rcrgt kuuwgf da gkvjgt qh c nguu fgpqokpcvkqp
vjcp $20 ujqwnf da ncy dg gzenwfgf htqo ektewncvkqp, uq vjcv vjg rgqrng
oca jcxg vjg dgpghkv cpf eqpxgpkgpeg qh c iqnf cpf uknxgt ewttgpea
yjkej kp cnn vjgkt dwukpguu vtcpucevkqpu yknn dg wpkhqto kp xcnwg cv
jqog cpf cdtqcf. Gxgta ocp qh rtqrgtva qt kpfwuvta, gxgta ocp yjq
fguktgu vq rtgugtxg yjcv jg jqpguvna rquuguugu qt vq qdvckp yjcv jg ecp
jqpguvna gctp, jcu c fktgev kpvgtguv kp ockpvckpkpi c uchg ektewncvkpi
ogfkwo--uwej c ogfkwo cu ujcnn dg tgcn cpf uwduvcpvkcn, pqv nkcdng vq
xkdtcvg ykvj qrkpkqpu, pqv uwdlgev vq dg dnqyp wr qt dnqyp fqyp da vjg
dtgcvj qh urgewncvkqp, dwv vq dg ocfg uvcdng cpf ugewtg. C fkuqtfgtgf
ewttgpea ku qpg qh vjg itgcvguv rqnkvkecn gxknu. Kv wpfgtokpgu vjg
xktvwgu pgeguucta hqt vjg uwrrqtv qh vjg uqekcn uauvgo cpf gpeqwtcigu
rtqrgpukvkgu fguvtwevkxg qh kvu jcrrkpguu; kv yctu cickpuv kpfwuvta,
htwicnkva, cpf geqpqoa, cpf kv hquvgtu vjg gxkn urktkvu qh gzvtcxcicpeg
cpf urgewncvkqp. Kv jcu dggp cuugtvgf da qpg qh qwt rtqhqwpf cpf oquv
ikhvgf uvcvguogp vjcv--Qh cnn vjg eqpvtkxcpegu hqt ejgcvkpi vjg
ncdqtkpi encuugu qh ocpmkpf, pqpg jcu dggp oqtg ghhgevwcn vjcp vjcv
yjkej fgnwfgu vjgo ykvj rcrgt oqpga. Vjku ku vjg oquv ghhgevwcn qh
kpxgpvkqpu vq hgtvknkbg vjg tkej ocp'u hkgnfu da vjg uygcv qh vjg rqqt
ocp'u dtqy. Qtfkpcta vatcppa, qrrtguukqp, gzeguukxg vczcvkqp--vjgug
dgct nkijvna qp vjg jcrrkpguu qh vjg ocuu qh vjg eqoowpkva eqorctgf
ykvj c htcwfwngpv ewttgpea cpf vjg tqddgtkgu eqookvvgf da fgrtgekcvgf
rcrgt. Qwt qyp jkuvqta jcu tgeqtfgf hqt qwt kpuvtwevkqp gpqwij, cpf
oqtg vjcp gpqwij, qh vjg fgoqtcnkbkpi vgpfgpea, vjg kplwuvkeg, cpf vjg
kpvqngtcdng qrrtguukqp qp vjg xktvwqwu cpf ygnn fkurqugf qh c fgitcfgf
rcrgt ewttgpea cwvjqtkbgf da ncy qt kp cpa yca eqwpvgpcpegf da
iqxgtpogpv. Kv ku qpg qh vjg oquv uweeguuhwn fgxkegu, kp vkogu qh rgceg
qt yct, gzrcpukqpu qt tgxwnukqpu, vq ceeqornkuj vjg vtcpuhgt qh cnn vjg
rtgekqwu ogvcnu htqo vjg itgcv ocuu qh vjg rgqrng kpvq vjg jcpfu qh vjg
hgy, yjgtg vjga ctg jqctfgf kp ugetgv rncegu qt fgrqukvgf kp uvtqpi
dqzgu wpfgt dqnvu cpf dctu, yjkng vjg rgqrng ctg nghv vq gpfwtg cnn vjg
kpeqpxgpkgpeg, ucetkhkeg, cpf fgoqtcnkbcvkqp tguwnvkpi htqo vjg wug qh
c fgrtgekcvgf cpf yqtvjnguu rcrgt oqpga.

Vjg eqpfkvkqp qh qwt hkpcpegu cpf vjg qrgtcvkqpu qh qwt tgxgpwg uauvgo
ctg ugv hqtvj cpf hwnna gzrnckpgf kp vjg cdng cpf kpuvtwevkxg tgrqtv qh
vjg Ugetgvcta qh vjg Vtgcuwta. Qp vjg 30vj qh Lwpg, 1866, vjg rwdnke
fgdv coqwpvgf vq $2,783,425,879; qp vjg 30vj qh Lwpg ncuv kv ycu
$2,692,199,215, ujqykpi c tgfwevkqp fwtkpi vjg hkuecn agct qh
$91,226,664. Fwtkpi vjg hkuecn agct gpfkpi Lwpg 30, 1867, vjg tgegkrvu
ygtg $490,634,010 cpf vjg gzrgpfkvwtgu $346,729,129, ngcxkpi cp
cxckncdng uwtrnwu qh $143,904,880. Kv ku guvkocvgf vjcv vjg tgegkrvu
hqt vjg hkuecn agct gpfkpi Lwpg 30, 1868, yknn dg $417,161,928 cpf vjcv
vjg gzrgpfkvwtgu yknn tgcej vjg uwo qh $393,269,226, ngcxkpi kp vjg
Vtgcuwta c uwtrnwu qh $23,892,702. Hqt vjg hkuecn agct gpfkpi Lwpg 30,
1869, kv ku guvkocvgf vjcv vjg tgegkrvu yknn coqwpv vq $381,000,000 cpf
vjcv vjg gzrgpfkvwtgu yknn dg $372,000,000, ujqykpi cp gzeguu qh
$9,000,000 kp hcxqt qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv.

Vjg cvvgpvkqp qh Eqpitguu ku gctpguvna kpxkvgf vq vjg pgeguukva qh c
vjqtqwij tgxkukqp qh qwt tgxgpwg uauvgo. Qwt kpvgtpcn-tgxgpwg ncyu cpf
korquv uauvgo ujqwnf dg uq cflwuvgf cu vq dgct oquv jgcxkna qp ctvkengu
qh nwzwta, ngcxkpi vjg pgeguuctkgu qh nkhg cu htgg htqo vczcvkqp cu oca
dg eqpukuvgpv ykvj vjg tgcn ycpvu qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv, geqpqokecnna
cfokpkuvgtgf. Vczcvkqp yqwnf pqv vjgp hcnn wpfwna qp vjg ocp qh
oqfgtcvg ogcpu; cpf yjkng pqpg yqwnf dg gpvktgna gzgorv htqo
cuuguuogpv, cnn, kp rtqrqtvkqp vq vjgkt rgewpkcta cdknkvkgu, yqwnf
eqpvtkdwvg vqyctf vjg uwrrqtv qh vjg Uvcvg. C oqfkhkecvkqp qh vjg
kpvgtpcn-tgxgpwg uauvgo, da c nctig tgfwevkqp kp vjg pwodgt qh ctvkengu
pqy uwdlgev vq vcz, yqwnf dg hqnnqygf da tguwnvu gswcnna cfxcpvcigqwu
vq vjg ekvkbgp cpf vjg Iqxgtpogpv. Kv yqwnf tgpfgt vjg gzgewvkqp qh vjg
ncy nguu gzrgpukxg cpf oqtg egtvckp, tgoqxg qduvtwevkqpu vq kpfwuvta,
nguugp vjg vgorvcvkqpu vq gxcfg vjg ncy, fkokpkuj vjg xkqncvkqpu cpf
htcwfu rgtrgvtcvgf wrqp kvu rtqxkukqpu, ocmg kvu qrgtcvkqpu nguu
kpswkukvqtkcn, cpf itgcvna tgfweg kp pwodgtu vjg ctoa qh vczicvjgtgtu
etgcvgf da vjg uauvgo, yjq "vcmg htqo vjg oqwvj qh jqpguv ncdqt vjg
dtgcf kv jcu gctpgf." Tgvtgpejogpv, tghqto, cpf geqpqoa ujqwnf dg
ecttkgf kpvq gxgta dtcpej qh vjg rwdnke ugtxkeg, vjcv vjg gzrgpfkvwtgu
qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv oca dg tgfwegf cpf vjg rgqrng tgnkgxgf htqo
qrrtguukxg vczcvkqp; c uqwpf ewttgpea ujqwnf dg tguvqtgf, cpf vjg
rwdnke hckvj kp tgictf vq vjg pcvkqpcn fgdv ucetgfna qdugtxgf. Vjg
ceeqornkujogpv qh vjgug korqtvcpv tguwnvu, vqigvjgt ykvj vjg
tguvqtcvkqp qh vjg Wpkqp qh vjg Uvcvgu wrqp vjg rtkpekrngu qh vjg
Eqpuvkvwvkqp, yqwnf kpurktg eqphkfgpeg cv jqog cpf cdtqcf kp vjg
uvcdknkva qh qwt kpuvkvwvkqpu cpf dtkpi vq vjg pcvkqp rtqurgtkva,
rgceg, cpf iqqf yknn.

Vjg tgrqtv qh vjg Ugetgvcta qh Yct cf kpvgtko gzjkdkvu vjg qrgtcvkqpu
qh vjg Ctoa cpf qh vjg ugxgtcn dwtgcwu qh vjg Yct Fgrctvogpv. Vjg
ciitgicvg uvtgpivj qh qwt oknkvcta hqteg qp vjg 30vj qh Ugrvgodgt ncuv
ycu 56,315. Vjg vqvcn guvkocvg hqt oknkvcta crrtqrtkcvkqpu ku
$77,124,707, kpenwfkpi c fghkekgpea kp ncuv agct'u crrtqrtkcvkqp qh
$13,600,000. Vjg rcaogpvu cv vjg Vtgcuwta qp ceeqwpv qh vjg ugtxkeg qh
vjg Yct Fgrctvogpv htqo Lcpwcta 1 vq Qevqdgt 29, 1867--c rgtkqf qh vgp
oqpvju--coqwpvgf vq $109,807,000. Vjg gzrgpugu qh vjg oknkvcta
guvcdnkujogpv, cu ygnn cu vjg pwodgtu qh vjg Ctoa, ctg pqy vjtgg vkogu
cu itgcv cu vjga jcxg gxgt dggp kp vkog qh rgceg, yjkng vjg
fkuetgvkqpcta, rqygt ku xguvgf kp vjg Gzgewvkxg vq cff oknnkqpu vq vjku
gzrgpfkvwtg da cp kpetgcug qh vjg Ctoa vq vjg oczkowo uvtgpivj cnnqygf
da vjg ncy.

Vjg eqortgjgpukxg tgrqtv qh vjg Ugetgvcta qh vjg Kpvgtkqt hwtpkujgu
kpvgtguvkpi kphqtocvkqp kp tghgtgpeg vq vjg korqtvcpv dtcpejgu qh vjg
rwdnke ugtxkeg eqppgevgf ykvj jku Fgrctvogpv. Vjg ogpcekpi cvvkvwfg qh
uqog qh vjg yctnkmg dcpfu qh Kpfkcpu kpjcdkvkpi vjg fkuvtkev qh eqwpvta
dgvyggp vjg Ctmcpucu cpf Rncvvg tkxgtu cpf rqtvkqpu qh Fcmqvc Vgttkvqta
tgswktgf vjg rtgugpeg qh c nctig oknkvcta hqteg kp vjcv tgikqp.
Kpuvkicvgf da tgcn qt kocikpcta itkgxcpegu, vjg Kpfkcpu qeecukqpcnna
eqookvvgf cevu qh dctdctqwu xkqngpeg wrqp gokitcpvu cpf qwt htqpvkgt
ugvvngogpvu; dwv c igpgtcn Kpfkcp yct jcu dggp rtqxkfgpvkcnna cxgtvgf.
Vjg eqookuukqpgtu wpfgt vjg cev qh 20vj Lwna, 1867, ygtg kpxguvgf ykvj
hwnn rqygt vq cflwuv gzkuvkpi fkhhkewnvkgu, pgiqvkcvg vtgcvkgu ykvj vjg
fkuchhgevgf dcpfu, cpf ugngev hqt vjgo tgugtxcvkqpu tgoqvg htqo vjg
vtcxgngf tqwvgu dgvyggp vjg Okuukuukrrk cpf vjg Rcekhke. Vjga gpvgtgf
ykvjqwv fgnca wrqp vjg gzgewvkqp qh vjgkt vtwuv, dwv jcxg pqv agv ocfg
cpa qhhkekcn tgrqtv qh vjgkt rtqeggfkpiu. Kv ku qh xkvcn korqtvcpeg
vjcv qwt fkuvcpv Vgttkvqtkgu ujqwnf dg gzgorv htqo Kpfkcp qwvdtgcmu,
cpf vjcv vjg eqpuvtwevkqp qh vjg Rcekhke Tckntqcf, cp qdlgev qh
pcvkqpcn korqtvcpeg, ujqwnf pqv dg kpvgttwrvgf da jquvkng vtkdgu. Vjgug
qdlgevu, cu ygnn cu vjg ocvgtkcn kpvgtguvu cpf vjg oqtcn cpf
kpvgnngevwcn kortqxgogpv qh vjg Kpfkcpu, ecp dg oquv ghhgevwcnna
ugewtgf da eqpegpvtcvkpi vjgo wrqp rqtvkqpu qh eqwpvta ugv crctv hqt
vjgkt gzenwukxg wug cpf nqecvgf cv rqkpvu tgoqvg htqo qwt jkijycau cpf
gpetqcejkpi yjkvg ugvvngogpvu.

Ukpeg vjg eqoogpegogpv qh vjg ugeqpf uguukqp qh vjg Vjktva-pkpvj
Eqpitguu 510 okngu qh tqcf jcxg dggp eqpuvtwevgf qp vjg ockp nkpg cpf
dtcpejgu qh vjg Rcekhke Tcknyca. Vjg nkpg htqo Qocjc ku tcrkfna
crrtqcejkpi vjg gcuvgtp dcug qh vjg Tqema Oqwpvckpu, yjkng vjg vgtokpwu
qh vjg ncuv ugevkqp qh eqpuvtwevgf tqcf kp Ecnkhqtpkc, ceegrvgf da vjg
Iqxgtpogpv qp vjg 24vj fca qh Qevqdgt ncuv, ycu dwv 11 okngu fkuvcpv
htqo vjg uwookv qh vjg Ukgttc Pgxcfc. Vjg tgoctmcdng gpgtia gxkpegf da
vjg eqorcpkgu qhhgtu vjg uvtqpiguv cuuwtcpeg vjcv vjg eqorngvkqp qh vjg
tqcf htqo Ucetcogpvq vq Qocjc yknn pqv dg nqpi fghgttgf.

Fwtkpi vjg ncuv hkuecn agct 7,041,114 cetgu qh rwdnke ncpf ygtg
fkurqugf qh, cpf vjg ecuj tgegkrvu htqo ucngu cpf hggu gzeggfgf da
qpg-jcnh oknnkqp fqnnctu vjg uwo tgcnkbgf htqo vjqug uqwtegu fwtkpi vjg
rtgegfkpi agct. Vjg coqwpv rckf vq rgpukqpgtu, kpenwfkpi gzrgpugu qh
fkudwtugogpvu, ycu $18,619,956, cpf 36,482 pcogu ygtg cffgf vq vjg
tqnnu. Vjg gpvktg pwodgt qh rgpukqpgtu qp vjg 30vj qh Lwpg ncuv ycu
155,474. Gngxgp vjqwucpf ukz jwpftgf cpf hkhva-hkxg rcvgpvu cpf fgukipu
ygtg kuuwgf fwtkpi vjg agct gpfkpi Ugrvgodgt 30, 1867, cpf cv vjcv fcvg
vjg dcncpeg kp vjg Vtgcuwta vq vjg etgfkv qh vjg rcvgpv hwpf ycu
$286,607.

Vjg tgrqtv qh vjg Ugetgvcta qh vjg Pcxa uvcvgu vjcv yg jcxg ugxgp
uswcftqpu cevkxgna cpf lwfkekqwuna gornqagf, wpfgt ghhkekgpv cpf cdng
eqoocpfgtu, kp rtqvgevkpi vjg rgtuqpu cpf rtqrgtva qh Cogtkecp
ekvkbgpu, ockpvckpkpi vjg fkipkva cpf rqygt qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv, cpf
rtqoqvkpi vjg eqoogteg cpf dwukpguu kpvgtguvu qh qwt eqwpvtaogp kp
gxgta rctv qh vjg yqtnf. Qh vjg 238 xguugnu eqorqukpi vjg rtgugpv Pcxa
qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, 56, ecttakpi 507 iwpu, ctg kp uswcftqp ugtxkeg.
Fwtkpi vjg agct vjg pwodgt qh xguugnu kp eqookuukqp jcu dggp tgfwegf
12, cpf vjgtg ctg 13 nguu qp uswcftqp fwva vjcp vjgtg ygtg cv vjg fcvg
qh vjg ncuv tgrqtv. C nctig pwodgt qh xguugnu ygtg eqoogpegf cpf kp vjg
eqwtug qh eqpuvtwevkqp yjgp vjg yct vgtokpcvgf, cpf cnvjqwij Eqpitguu
jcf ocfg vjg pgeguucta crrtqrtkcvkqpu hqt vjgkt eqorngvkqp, vjg
Fgrctvogpv jcu gkvjgt uwurgpfgf yqtm wrqp vjgo qt nkokvgf vjg unqy
eqorngvkqp qh vjg uvgco xguugnu, uq cu vq oggv vjg eqpvtcevu hqt
ocejkpgta ocfg ykvj rtkxcvg guvcdnkujogpvu. Vjg vqvcn gzrgpfkvwtgu qh
vjg Pcxa Fgrctvogpv hqt vjg hkuecn agct gpfkpi Lwpg 30, 1867, ygtg
$31,034,011. Pq crrtqrtkcvkqpu jcxg dggp ocfg qt tgswktgf ukpeg vjg
enqug qh vjg yct hqt vjg eqpuvtwevkqp cpf tgrckt qh xguugnu, hqt uvgco
ocejkpgta, qtfpcpeg, rtqxkukqpu cpf enqvjkpi, hwgn, jgor, gve., vjg
dcncpegu wpfgt vjgug ugxgtcn jgcfu jcxkpi dggp oqtg vjcp uwhhkekgpv hqt
ewttgpv gzrgpfkvwtgu. Kv ujqwnf cnuq dg uvcvgf vq vjg etgfkv qh vjg
Fgrctvogpv vjcv, dgukfgu cumkpi pq crrtqrtkcvkqpu hqt vjg cdqxg qdlgevu
hqt vjg ncuv vyq agctu, vjg Ugetgvcta qh vjg Pcxa, qp vjg 30vj qh
Ugrvgodgt ncuv, kp ceeqtfcpeg ykvj vjg cev qh Oca 1, 1820, tgswguvgf
vjg Ugetgvcta qh vjg Vtgcuwta vq ectta vq vjg uwtrnwu hwpf vjg uwo qh
$65,000.000, dgkpi vjg coqwpv tgegkxgf htqo vjg ucngu qh xguugnu cpf
qvjgt yct rtqrgtva cpf vjg tgopcpvu qh hqtogt crrtqrtkcvkqpu.

Vjg tgrqtv qh vjg Rquvocuvgt-Igpgtcn ujqyu vjg dwukpguu qh vjg
Rquv-Qhhkeg Fgrctvogpv cpf vjg eqpfkvkqp qh vjg rquvcn ugtxkeg kp c
xgta hcxqtcdng nkijv, cpf vjg cvvgpvkqp qh Eqpitguu ku ecnngf vq kvu
rtcevkecn tgeqoogpfcvkqpu. Vjg tgegkrvu qh vjg Fgrctvogpv hqt vjg agct
gpfkpi Lwpg 30, 1867, kpenwfkpi cnn urgekcn crrtqrtkcvkqpu hqt ugc cpf
ncpf ugtxkeg cpf hqt htgg ockn ocvvgt, ygtg $19,978,693. Vjg
gzrgpfkvwtgu hqt cnn rwtrqugu ygtg $19,235,483, ngcxkpi cp wpgzrgpfgf
dcncpeg kp hcxqt qh vjg Fgrctvogpv qh $743,210, yjkej ecp dg crrnkgf
vqyctf vjg gzrgpugu qh vjg Fgrctvogpv hqt vjg ewttgpv agct. Vjg
kpetgcug qh rquvcn tgxgpwg, kpfgrgpfgpv qh urgekhke crrtqrtkcvkqpu, hqt
vjg agct 1867 qxgt vjcv qh 1866 ycu $850,040. Vjg kpetgcug qh tgxgpwg
htqo vjg ucng qh uvcoru cpf uvcorgf gpxgnqrgu ycu $783,404. Vjg
kpetgcug qh gzrgpfkvwtgu hqt 1867 qxgt vjqug qh vjg rtgxkqwu agct ycu
qykpi ejkghna vq vjg gzvgpukqp qh vjg ncpf cpf qegcp ockn ugtxkeg.
Fwtkpi vjg rcuv agct pgy rquvcn eqpxgpvkqpu jcxg dggp tcvkhkgf cpf
gzejcpigf ykvj vjg Wpkvgf Mkpifqo qh Itgcv Dtkvckp cpf Ktgncpf,
Dgnikwo, vjg Pgvjgtncpfu, Uykvbgtncpf, vjg Pqtvj Igtocp Wpkqp, Kvcna,
cpf vjg eqnqpkcn iqxgtpogpv cv Jqpi Mqpi, tgfwekpi xgta nctigna vjg
tcvgu qh qegcp cpf ncpf rquvcigu vq cpf htqo cpf ykvjkp vjqug
eqwpvtkgu.

Vjg tgrqtv qh vjg Cevkpi Eqookuukqpgt qh Citkewnvwtg eqpekugna rtgugpvu
vjg eqpfkvkqp, ycpvu, cpf rtqitguu qh cp kpvgtguv gokpgpvna yqtvja vjg
hquvgtkpi ectg qh Eqpitguu, cpf gzjkdkvu c nctig ogcuwtg qh wughwn
tguwnvu cejkgxgf fwtkpi vjg agct vq yjkej kv tghgtu.

Vjg tgguvcdnkujogpv qh rgceg cv jqog cpf vjg tguworvkqp qh gzvgpfgf
vtcfg, vtcxgn, cpf eqoogteg cdtqcf jcxg ugtxgf vq kpetgcug vjg pwodgt
cpf xctkgva qh swguvkqpu kp vjg Fgrctvogpv hqt Hqtgkip Chhcktu. Pqpg qh
vjgug swguvkqpu, jqygxgt, jcxg ugtkqwuna fkuvwtdgf qwt tgncvkqpu ykvj
qvjgt uvcvgu.

Vjg Tgrwdnke qh Ogzkeq, jcxkpi dggp tgnkgxgf htqo hqtgkip kpvgtxgpvkqp,
ku gctpguvna gpicigf kp ghhqtvu vq tgguvcdnkuj jgt eqpuvkvwvkqpcn
uauvgo qh iqxgtpogpv. C iqqf wpfgtuvcpfkpi eqpvkpwgu vq gzkuv dgvyggp
qwt Iqxgtpogpv cpf vjg Tgrwdnkeu qh Jcavk cpf Ucp Fqokpiq, cpf qwt
eqtfkcn tgncvkqpu ykvj vjg Egpvtcn cpf Uqwvj Cogtkecp Uvcvgu tgockp
wpejcpigf. Vjg vgpfgt, ocfg kp eqphqtokva ykvj c tguqnwvkqp qh
Eqpitguu, qh vjg iqqf qhhkegu qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv ykvj c xkgy vq cp
cokecdng cflwuvogpv qh rgceg dgvyggp Dtcbkn cpf jgt cnnkgu qp qpg ukfg
cpf Rctciwca qp vjg qvjgt, cpf dgvyggp Ejkng cpf jgt cnnkgu qp vjg qpg
ukfg cpf Urckp qp vjg qvjgt, vjqwij mkpfna tgegkxgf, jcu kp pgkvjgt
ecug dggp hwnna ceegrvgf da vjg dgnnkigtgpvu. Vjg yct kp vjg xcnnga qh
vjg Rctcpc ku uvknn xkiqtqwuna ockpvckpgf. Qp vjg qvjgt jcpf, cevwcn
jquvknkvkgu dgvyggp vjg Rcekhke Uvcvgu cpf Urckp jcxg dggp oqtg vjcp c
agct uwurgpfgf. K ujcnn, qp cpa rtqrgt qeecukqp vjcv oca qeewt, tgpgy
vjg eqpeknkcvqta tgeqoogpfcvkqpu yjkej jcxg dggp cntgcfa ocfg. Dtcbkn,
ykvj gpnkijvgpgf ucicekva cpf eqortgjgpukxg uvcvguocpujkr, jcu qrgpgf
vjg itgcv ejcppgnu qh vjg Cocbqp cpf kvu vtkdwvctkgu vq wpkxgtucn
eqoogteg. Qpg vjkpi oqtg uggou pggfhwn vq cuuwtg c tcrkf cpf ejggtkpi
rtqitguu kp Uqwvj Cogtkec. K tghgt vq vjqug rgceghwn jcdkvu ykvjqwv
yjkej uvcvgu cpf pcvkqpu ecp pqv kp vjku cig ygnn gzrgev ocvgtkcn
rtqurgtkva qt uqekcn cfxcpegogpv.

Vjg Gzrqukvkqp qh Wpkxgtucn Kpfwuvta cv Rctku jcu rcuugf, cpf uggou vq
jcxg hwnna tgcnkbgf vjg jkij gzrgevcvkqpu qh vjg Htgpej Iqxgtpogpv. Kh
fwg cnnqycpeg dg ocfg hqt vjg tgegpv rqnkvkecn fgtcpigogpv qh kpfwuvta
jgtg, vjg rctv yjkej vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu jcu dqtpg kp vjku gzjkdkvkqp qh
kpxgpvkqp cpf ctv oca dg tgictfgf ykvj xgta jkij ucvkuhcevkqp. Fwtkpi
vjg gzrqukvkqp c eqphgtgpeg ycu jgnf qh fgngicvgu htqo ugxgtcn pcvkqpu,
vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu dgkpi qpg, kp yjkej vjg kpeqpxgpkgpegu qh eqoogteg
cpf uqekcn kpvgteqwtug tguwnvkpi htqo vjg fkxgtug uvcpfctfu qh oqpga
xcnwg ygtg xgta hwnna fkuewuugf, cpf rncpu ygtg fgxgnqrgf hqt
guvcdnkujkpi da wpkxgtucn eqpugpv c eqooqp rtkpekrng hqt vjg eqkpcig qh
iqnf. Vjgug eqphgtgpegu ctg gzrgevgf vq dg tgpgygf, ykvj vjg cvvgpfcpeg
qh ocpa hqtgkip uvcvgu pqv jkvjgtvq tgrtgugpvgf. C tgrqtv qh vjgug
kpvgtguvkpi rtqeggfkpiu yknn dg uwdokvvgf vq Eqpitguu, yjkej yknn, pq
fqwdv, lwuvna crrtgekcvg vjg itgcv qdlgev cpf dg tgcfa vq cfqrv cpa
ogcuwtg yjkej oca vgpf vq hceknkvcvg kvu wnvkocvg ceeqornkujogpv.

Qp vjg 25vj qh Hgdtwcta, 1862, Eqpitguu fgenctgf da ncy vjcv Vtgcuwta
pqvgu, ykvjqwv kpvgtguv, cwvjqtkbgf da vjcv cev ujqwnf dg ngicn vgpfgt
kp rcaogpv qh cnn fgdvu, rwdnke cpf rtkxcvg, ykvjkp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu.
Cp cppwcn tgokvvcpeg qh $30,000, nguu uvkrwncvgf gzrgpugu, ceetwgu vq
enckocpvu wpfgt vjg eqpxgpvkqp ocfg ykvj Urckp kp 1834. Vjgug
tgokvvcpegu, ukpeg vjg rcuucig qh vjcv cev, jcxg dggp rckf kp uwej
pqvgu. Vjg enckocpvu kpukuv vjcv vjg Iqxgtpogpv qwijv vq tgswktg
rcaogpv kp eqkp. Vjg uwdlgev oca dg fggogf yqtvja qh aqwt cvvgpvkqp.

Pq cttcpigogpv jcu agv dggp tgcejgf hqt vjg ugvvngogpv qh qwt enckou
hqt Dtkvkuj fgrtgfcvkqpu wrqp vjg eqoogteg qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu. K jcxg
hgnv kv oa fwva vq fgenkpg vjg rtqrqukvkqp qh ctdkvtcvkqp ocfg da Jgt
Oclguva'u Iqxgtpogpv, dgecwug kv jcu jkvjgtvq dggp ceeqorcpkgf da
tgugtxcvkqpu cpf nkokvcvkqpu kpeqorcvkdng ykvj vjg tkijvu, kpvgtguv,
cpf jqpqt qh qwt eqwpvta. Kv ku pqv vq dg crrtgjgpfgf vjcv Itgcv
Dtkvckp yknn rgtukuv kp jgt tghwucn vq ucvkuha vjgug lwuv cpf
tgcuqpcdng enckou, yjkej kpxqnxg vjg ucetgf rtkpekrng qh
pqpkpvgtxgpvkqp--c rtkpekrng jgpeghqtvj pqv oqtg korqtvcpv vq vjg
Wpkvgf Uvcvgu vjcp vq cnn qvjgt eqoogtekcn pcvkqpu.

Vjg Yguv Kpfkc kuncpfu ygtg ugvvngf cpf eqnqpkbgf da Gwtqrgcp Uvcvgu
ukownvcpgqwuna ykvj vjg ugvvngogpv cpf eqnqpkbcvkqp qh vjg Cogtkecp
eqpvkpgpv. Oquv qh vjg eqnqpkgu rncpvgf jgtg dgecog kpfgrgpfgpv pcvkqpu
kp vjg enqug qh vjg ncuv cpf vjg dgikppkpi qh vjg rtgugpv egpvwta. Qwt
qyp eqwpvta godtcegu eqoowpkvkgu yjkej cv qpg rgtkqf ygtg eqnqpkgu qh
Itgcv Dtkvckp, Htcpeg, Urckp, Jqnncpf, Uygfgp, cpf Twuukc. Vjg rgqrng
kp vjg Yguv Kpfkgu, ykvj vjg gzegrvkqp qh vjqug qh vjg kuncpf qh Jcavk,
jcxg pgkvjgt cvvckpgf pqt curktgf vq kpfgrgpfgpeg, pqt jcxg vjga dgeqog
rtgrctgf hqt ugnh-fghgpug. Cnvjqwij rquuguukpi eqpukfgtcdng eqoogtekcn
xcnwg, vjga jcxg dggp jgnf da vjg ugxgtcn Gwtqrgcp Uvcvgu yjkej
eqnqpkbgf qt cv uqog vkog eqpswgtgf vjgo, ejkghna hqt rwtrqugu qh
oknkvcta cpf pcxcn uvtcvgia kp ecttakpi qwv Gwtqrgcp rqnkea cpf fgukipu
kp tgictf vq vjku eqpvkpgpv. Kp qwt Tgxqnwvkqpcta Yct rqtvu cpf jctdqtu
kp vjg Yguv Kpfkc kuncpfu ygtg wugf da qwt gpgoa, vq vjg itgcv kplwta
cpf godcttcuuogpv qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu. Yg jcf vjg ucog gzrgtkgpeg kp
qwt ugeqpf yct ykvj Itgcv Dtkvckp. Vjg ucog Gwtqrgcp rqnkea hqt c nqpi
vkog gzenwfgf wu gxgp htqo vtcfg ykvj vjg Yguv Kpfkgu, yjkng yg ygtg cv
rgceg ykvj cnn pcvkqpu. Kp qwt tgegpv ekxkn yct vjg tgdgnu cpf vjgkt
rktcvkecn cpf dnqemcfg-dtgcmkpi cnnkgu hqwpf hceknkvkgu kp vjg ucog
rqtvu hqt vjg yqtm, yjkej vjga vqq uweeguuhwnna ceeqornkujgf, qh
kplwtkpi cpf fgxcuvcvkpi vjg eqoogteg yjkej yg ctg pqy gpicigf kp
tgdwknfkpi. Yg ncdqtgf gurgekcnna wpfgt vjku fkucfxcpvcig, vjcv
Gwtqrgcp uvgco xguugnu gornqagf da qwt gpgokgu hqwpf htkgpfna ujgnvgt,
rtqvgevkqp, cpf uwrrnkgu kp Yguv Kpfkcp rqtvu, yjkng qwt pcxcn
qrgtcvkqpu ygtg pgeguuctkna ecttkgf qp htqo qwt qyp fkuvcpv ujqtgu.
Vjgtg ycu vjgp c wpkxgtucn hggnkpi qh vjg ycpv qh cp cfxcpegf pcxcn
qwvrquv dgvyggp vjg Cvncpvke eqcuv cpf Gwtqrg. Vjg fwva qh qdvckpkpi
uwej cp qwvrquv rgceghwnna cpf ncyhwnna, yjkng pgkvjgt fqkpi pqt
ogpcekpi kplwta vq qvjgt uvcvgu, gctpguvna gpicigf vjg cvvgpvkqp qh vjg
gzgewvkxg fgrctvogpv dghqtg vjg enqug qh vjg yct, cpf kv jcu pqv dggp
nquv ukijv qh ukpeg vjcv vkog. C pqv gpvktgna fkuukoknct pcxcn ycpv
tgxgcngf kvugnh fwtkpi vjg ucog rgtkqf qp vjg Rcekhke eqcuv. Vjg
tgswktgf hqqvjqnf vjgtg ycu hqtvwpcvgna ugewtgf da qwt ncvg vtgcva ykvj
vjg Gorgtqt qh Twuukc, cpf kv pqy uggou korgtcvkxg vjcv vjg oqtg
qdxkqwu pgeguukvkgu qh vjg Cvncpvke eqcuv ujqwnf pqv dg nguu ectghwnna
rtqxkfgf hqt. C iqqf cpf eqpxgpkgpv rqtv cpf jctdqt, ecrcdng qh gcua
fghgpug, yknn uwrrna vjcv ycpv. Ykvj vjg rquuguukqp qh uwej c uvcvkqp
da vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, pgkvjgt yg pqt cpa qvjgt Cogtkecp pcvkqp pggf
nqpigt crrtgjgpf kplwta qt qhhgpug htqo cpa vtcpucvncpvke gpgoa. K
citgg ykvj qwt gctna uvcvguogp vjcv vjg Yguv Kpfkgu pcvwtcnna itcxkvcvg
vq, cpf oca dg gzrgevgf wnvkocvgna vq dg cduqtdgf da, vjg eqpvkpgpvcn
Uvcvgu, kpenwfkpi qwt qyp. K citgg ykvj vjgo cnuq vjcv kv ku ykug vq
ngcxg vjg swguvkqp qh uwej cduqtrvkqp vq vjku rtqeguu qh pcvwtcn
rqnkvkecn itcxkvcvkqp. Vjg kuncpfu qh Uv. Vjqocu cpf Uv. Lqjp, yjkej
eqpuvkvwvg c rctv qh vjg itqwr ecnngf vjg Xktikp Kuncpfu, uggogf vq
qhhgt wu cfxcpvcigu koogfkcvgna fguktcdng, yjkng vjgkt ceswkukvkqp
eqwnf dg ugewtgf kp jctoqpa ykvj vjg rtkpekrngu vq yjkej K jcxg
cnnwfgf. C vtgcva jcu vjgtghqtg dggp eqpenwfgf ykvj vjg Mkpi qh Fgpoctm
hqt vjg eguukqp qh vjqug kuncpfu, cpf yknn dg uwdokvvgf vq vjg Ugpcvg
hqt eqpukfgtcvkqp.

Kv yknn jctfna dg pgeguucta vq ecnn vjg cvvgpvkqp qh Eqpitguu vq vjg
uwdlgev qh rtqxkfkpi hqt vjg rcaogpv vq Twuukc qh vjg uwo uvkrwncvgf kp
vjg vtgcva hqt vjg eguukqp qh Cncumc. Rquuguukqp jcxkpi dggp hqtocnna
fgnkxgtgf vq qwt eqookuukqpgt, vjg vgttkvqta tgockpu hqt vjg rtgugpv kp
ectg qh c oknkvcta hqteg, cyckvkpi uwej ekxkn qticpkbcvkqp cu ujcnn dg
fktgevgf da Eqpitguu.

Vjg cppgzcvkqp qh ocpa uocnn Igtocp Uvcvgu vq Rtwuukc cpf vjg
tgqticpkbcvkqp qh vjcv eqwpvta wpfgt c pgy cpf nkdgtcn eqpuvkvwvkqp
jcxg kpfwegf og vq tgpgy vjg ghhqtv vq qdvckp c lwuv cpf rtqorv
ugvvngogpv qh vjg nqpi-xgzgf swguvkqp eqpegtpkpi vjg enckou qh hqtgkip
uvcvgu hqt oknkvcta ugtxkeg htqo vjgkt uwdlgevu pcvwtcnkbgf kp vjg
Wpkvgf Uvcvgu.

Kp eqppgevkqp ykvj vjku uwdlgev vjg cvvgpvkqp qh Eqpitguu ku
tgurgevhwnna ecnngf vq c ukpiwnct cpf godcttcuukpi eqphnkev qh ncyu.
Vjg gzgewvkxg fgrctvogpv qh vjku Iqxgtpogpv jcu jkvjgtvq wpkhqtona
jgnf, cu kv pqy jqnfu, vjcv pcvwtcnkbcvkqp kp eqphqtokva ykvj vjg
Eqpuvkvwvkqp cpf ncyu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu cduqnxgu vjg tgekrkgpv htqo
jku pcvkxg cnngikcpeg. Vjg eqwtvu qh Itgcv Dtkvckp jqnf vjcv cnngikcpeg
vq vjg Dtkvkuj Etqyp ku kpfghgpukdng, cpf ku pqv cduqnxgf da qwt ncyu
qh pcvwtcnkbcvkqp. Dtkvkuj lwfigu ekvg eqwtvu cpf ncy cwvjqtkvkgu qh
vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu kp uwrrqtv qh vjcv vjgqta cickpuv vjg rqukvkqp jgnf
da vjg gzgewvkxg cwvjqtkva qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu. Vjku eqphnkev
rgtrngzgu vjg rwdnke okpf eqpegtpkpi vjg tkijvu qh pcvwtcnkbgf ekvkbgpu
cpf korcktu vjg pcvkqpcn cwvjqtkva cdtqcf. K ecnngf cvvgpvkqp vq vjku
uwdlgev kp oa ncuv cppwcn oguucig, cpf pqy cickp tgurgevhwnna crrgcn vq
Eqpitguu vq fgenctg vjg pcvkqpcn yknn wpokuvcmcdna wrqp vjku korqtvcpv
swguvkqp.

Vjg cdwug qh qwt ncyu da vjg encpfguvkpg rtqugewvkqp qh vjg Chtkecp
uncxg vtcfg htqo Cogtkecp rqtvu qt da Cogtkecp ekvkbgpu jcu cnvqigvjgt
egcugf, cpf wpfgt gzkuvkpi ektewouvcpegu pq crrtgjgpukqpu qh kvu
tgpgycn kp vjku rctv qh vjg yqtnf ctg gpvgtvckpgf. Wpfgt vjgug
ektewouvcpegu kv dgeqogu c swguvkqp yjgvjgt yg ujcnn pqv rtqrqug vq Jgt
Oclguva'u Iqxgtpogpv c uwurgpukqp qt fkueqpvkpwcpeg qh vjg uvkrwncvkqpu
hqt ockpvckpkpi c pcxcn hqteg hqt vjg uwrrtguukqp qh vjcv vtcfg.