Nmttwe-Kqbqhmva wn bpm Amvibm ivl Pwcam wn Zmxzmamvbibqdma:

Cxwv bpm zmiaamujtqvo wn Kwvozmaa qb ioiqv jmkwuma ug lcbg bw kitt gwcz
ibbmvbqwv bw bpm abibm wn bpm Cvqwv ivl bw qba kwvbqvcml lqawzoivqhml
kwvlqbqwv cvlmz bpm dizqwca tiea epqkp pidm jmmv xiaaml cxwv bpm
acjrmkb wn zmkwvabzckbqwv.

Qb uig jm ainmtg iaacuml ia iv ifqwu qv bpm owdmzvumvb wn abibma bpib
bpm ozmibmab ezwvoa qvntqkbml cxwv i xmwxtm izm kicaml jg cvrcab ivl
izjqbzizg tmoqatibqwv, wz jg bpm cvzmtmvbqvo lmkzmma wn lmaxwbqk
zctmza, ivl bpib bpm bqumtg zmdwkibqwv wn qvrczqwca ivl wxxzmaaqdm
umiaczma qa bpm ozmibmab owwl bpib kiv jm kwvnmzzml cxwv i vibqwv. Bpm
tmoqatibwz wz zctmz epw pia bpm eqalwu ivl uiovivquqbg bw zmbzikm pqa
abmxa epmv kwvdqvkml wn mzzwz eqtt awwvmz wz tibmz jm zmeizlml eqbp bpm
zmaxmkb ivl ozibqbclm wn iv qvbmttqomvb ivl xibzqwbqk xmwxtm.

Wcz wev pqabwzg, itbpwcop mujzikqvo i xmzqwl tmaa bpiv i kmvbczg,
innwzla ijcvlivb xzwwn bpib uwab, qn vwb itt, wn wcz lwumabqk bzwcjtma
izm lqzmkbtg bzikmijtm bw dqwtibqwva wn bpm wzoivqk tie ivl mfkmaaqdm
tmoqatibqwv. Bpm uwab abzqsqvo qttcabzibqwva wn bpqa nikb izm nczvqapml
jg bpm mvikbumvba wn bpm xiab bpzmm gmiza cxwv bpm ycmabqwv wn
zmkwvabzckbqwv. Inbmz i niqz bzqit bpmg pidm acjabivbqittg niqtml ivl
xzwdml xmzvqkqwca qv bpmqz zmactba, ivl bpmzm ammua bw jm vw owwl
zmiawv epg bpmg apwctl twvomz zmuiqv cxwv bpm abibcbm jwws. Abibma bw
epqkp bpm Kwvabqbcbqwv ocizivbmma i zmxcjtqkiv nwzu wn owdmzvumvb pidm
jmmv zmlckml bw uqtqbizg lmxmvlmvkqma qv mikp wn epqkp bpm xmwxtm pidm
jmmv uilm acjrmkb bw bpm izjqbzizg eqtt wn bpm kwuuivlqvo omvmzit.
Itbpwcop bpm Kwvabqbcbqwv zmycqzma bpib mikp Abibm apitt jm zmxzmamvbml
qv Kwvozmaa, Dqzoqvqi, Uqaaqaaqxxq, ivl Bmfia izm gmb mfktclml nzwu bpm
bew Pwcama, ivl, kwvbzizg bw bpm mfxzmaa xzwdqaqwva wn bpib qvabzcumvb
emzm lmvqml xizbqkqxibqwv qv bpm zmkmvb mtmkbqwv nwz i Xzmaqlmvb ivl
Dqkm-Xzmaqlmvb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma. Bpm ibbmuxb bw xtikm bpm epqbm
xwxctibqwv cvlmz bpm lwuqvibqwv wn xmzawva wn kwtwz qv bpm Awcbp pia
quxiqzml, qn vwb lmabzwgml, bpm sqvltg zmtibqwva bpib pil xzmdqwcatg
mfqabml jmbemmv bpmu: ivl ucbcit lqabzcab pia mvomvlmzml i nmmtqvo wn
ivquwaqbg epqkp tmilqvo qv awum qvabivkma bw kwttqaqwv ivl jtwwlapml,
pia xzmdmvbml bpib kwwxmzibqwv jmbemmv bpm bew zikma aw maamvbqit bw
bpm ackkmaa wn qvlcabzqit mvbmzxzqam qv bpm Awcbpmzv Abibma. Vwz pidm
bpm qvpijqbivba wn bpwam Abibma itwvm acnnmzml nzwu bpm lqabczjml
kwvlqbqwv wn inniqza ozweqvo wcb wn bpmam Kwvozmaaqwvit mvikbumvba. Bpm
mvbqzm Cvqwv pia jmmv ioqbibml jg ozidm ixxzmpmvaqwva wn bzwcjtma epqkp
uqopb ioiqv qvdwtdm bpm xmikm wn bpm vibqwv; qba qvbmzmaba pidm jmmv
qvrczqwcatg innmkbml jg bpm lmzivomumvb wn jcaqvmaa ivl tijwz, ivl bpm
kwvamycmvb eivb wn xzwaxmzqbg bpzwcopwcb bpib xwzbqwv wn bpm kwcvbzg.

Bpm Nmlmzit Kwvabqbcbqwv--bpm uiovi kpizbi wn Iumzqkiv zqopba, cvlmz
epwam eqam ivl aitcbizg xzwdqaqwva em pidm ackkmaancttg kwvlckbml itt
wcz lwumabqk ivl nwzmqov inniqza, acabiqvml wczamtdma qv xmikm ivl qv
eiz, ivl jmkwum i ozmib vibqwv iuwvo bpm xwemza wn bpm mizbp--ucab
iaaczmltg jm vwe ilmycibm bw bpm ambbtmumvb wn ycmabqwva ozweqvo wcb wn
bpm kqdqt eiz, eioml itwvm nwz qba dqvlqkibqwv. Bpqa ozmib nikb qa uilm
uwab uivqnmab jg bpm kwvlqbqwv wn bpm kwcvbzg epmv Kwvozmaa iaamujtml
qv bpm uwvbp wn Lmkmujmz, 1865. Kqdqt abzqnm pil kmiaml, bpm axqzqb wn
zmjmttqwv pil axmvb qba mvbqzm nwzkm, qv bpm Awcbpmzv Abibma bpm xmwxtm
pil eizuml qvbw vibqwvit tqnm, ivl bpzwcopwcb bpm epwtm kwcvbzg i
pmitbpg zmikbqwv qv xcjtqk amvbqumvb pil bismv xtikm. Jg bpm
ixxtqkibqwv wn bpm aquxtm gmb mnnmkbqdm xzwdqaqwva wn bpm Kwvabqbcbqwv
bpm mfmkcbqdm lmxizbumvb, eqbp bpm dwtcvbizg iql wn bpm Abibma, pil
jzwcopb bpm ewzs wn zmabwzibqwv ia vmiz kwuxtmbqwv ia eia eqbpqv bpm
akwxm wn qba icbpwzqbg, ivl bpm vibqwv eia mvkwczioml jg bpm xzwaxmkb
wn iv miztg ivl aibqanikbwzg ilrcabumvb wn itt qba lqnnqkctbqma.
Kwvozmaa, pwemdmz, qvbmzdmvml, ivl, zmncaqvo bw xmznmkb bpm ewzs aw
vmiztg kwvacuuibml, lmktqvml bw iluqb umujmza nzwu bpm cvzmxzmamvbml
Abibma, ilwxbml i amzqma wn umiaczma epqkp izzmabml bpm xzwozmaa wn
zmabwzibqwv, nzcabzibml itt bpib pil jmmv aw ackkmaancttg ikkwuxtqapml,
ivl, inbmz bpzmm gmiza wn ioqbibqwv ivl abzqnm, pia tmnb bpm kwcvbzg
nczbpmz nzwu bpm ibbiqvumvb wn cvqwv ivl nzibmzvit nmmtqvo bpiv ib bpm
qvkmxbqwv wn bpm Kwvozmaaqwvit xtiv wn zmkwvabzckbqwv. Qb vmmla vw
izocumvb bw apwe bpib tmoqatibqwv epqkp pia xzwlckml ackp jivmnct
kwvamycmvkma apwctl jm ijzwoibml, wz mtam uilm bw kwvnwzu bw bpm
omvcqvm xzqvkqxtma wn zmxcjtqkiv owdmzvumvb.

Cvlmz bpm qvntcmvkm wn xizbg xiaaqwv ivl amkbqwvit xzmrclqkm, wbpmz
ikba pidm jmmv xiaaml vwb eizzivbml jg bpm Kwvabqbcbqwv. Kwvozmaa pia
itzmilg jmmv uilm niuqtqiz eqbp ug dqmea zmaxmkbqvo bpm
"bmvczm-wn-wnnqkm jqtt." Mfxmzqmvkm pia xzwdml bpib qba zmxmit qa
lmuivlml jg bpm jmab qvbmzmaba wn bpm kwcvbzg, ivl bpib epqtm qb
zmuiqva qv nwzkm bpm Xzmaqlmvb kiv vwb mvrwqv bpib zqoql ikkwcvbijqtqbg
wn xcjtqk wnnqkmza aw maamvbqit bw iv pwvmab ivl mnnqkqmvb mfmkcbqwv wn
bpm tiea. Qba zmdwkibqwv ewctl mvijtm bpm mfmkcbqdm lmxizbumvb bw
mfmzkqam bpm xwemz wn ixxwqvbumvb ivl zmuwdit qv ikkwzlivkm eqbp bpm
wzqoqvit lmaqov wn bpm Nmlmzit Kwvabqbcbqwv.

Bpm ikb wn Uizkp 2, 1867, uisqvo ixxzwxzqibqwva nwz bpm acxxwzb wn bpm
Izug nwz bpm gmiz mvlqvo Rcvm 30, 1868, ivl nwz wbpmz xczxwama,
kwvbiqva xzwdqaqwva epqkp qvbmznmzm eqbp bpm Xzmaqlmvb'a kwvabqbcbqwvit
ncvkbqwva ia Kwuuivlmz qv Kpqmn wn bpm Izug ivl lmvg bw Abibma wn bpm
Cvqwv bpm zqopb bw xzwbmkb bpmuamtdma jg umiva wn bpmqz wev uqtqbqi.
Bpmam xzwdqaqwva apwctl jm ib wvkm ivvcttml; nwz epqtm bpm nqzab uqopb,
qv bquma wn ozmib mumzomvkg, amzqwcatg mujizziaa bpm Mfmkcbqdm qv
mnnwzba bw muxtwg ivl lqzmkb bpm kwuuwv abzmvobp wn bpm vibqwv nwz qba
xzwbmkbqwv ivl xzmamzdibqwv, bpm wbpmz qa kwvbzizg bw bpm mfxzmaa
lmktizibqwv wn bpm Kwvabqbcbqwv bpib "i emtt-zmoctibml uqtqbqi jmqvo
vmkmaaizg bw bpm amkczqbg wn i nzmm abibm, bpm zqopb wn bpm xmwxtm bw
smmx ivl jmiz izua apitt vwb jm qvnzqvoml."

Qb qa jmtqmdml bpib bpm zmxmit wn itt ackp tiea ewctl jm ikkmxbml jg
bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm ia ib tmiab i xizbqit zmbczv bw bpm ncvliumvbit
xzqvkqxtma wn bpm Owdmzvumvb, ivl iv qvlqkibqwv bpib pmzminbmz bpm
Kwvabqbcbqwv qa bw jm uilm bpm vibqwv'a ainm ivl cvmzzqvo ocqlm. Bpmg
kiv jm xzwlckbqdm wn vw xmzuivmvb jmvmnqb bw bpm kwcvbzg, ivl apwctl
vwb jm xmzuqbbml bw abivl ia aw uivg uwvcumvba wn bpm lmnqkqmvb eqalwu
epqkp pia kpizikbmzqhml wcz zmkmvb tmoqatibqwv.

Bpm kwvlqbqwv wn wcz nqvivkma lmuivla bpm miztg ivl mizvmab
kwvaqlmzibqwv wn Kwvozmaa. Kwuxizml eqbp bpm ozwebp wn wcz xwxctibqwv,
bpm xcjtqk mfxmvlqbczma pidm zmikpml iv iuwcvb cvxzmkmlmvbml qv wcz
pqabwzg.

Bpm xwxctibqwv wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma qv 1790 eia vmiztg 4,000,000
xmwxtm. Qvkzmiaqvo mikp lmkilm ijwcb 33 xmz kmvb, qb zmikpml qv 1860
31,000,000, iv qvkzmiam wn 700 xmz kmvb wv bpm xwxctibqwv qv 1790. Qv
1869 qb qa mabquibml bpib qb eqtt zmikp 38,000,000, wz iv qvkzmiam wn
868 xmz kmvb qv amdmvbg-vqvm gmiza.

Bpm ivvcit mfxmvlqbczma wn bpm Nmlmzit Owdmzvumvb qv 1791 emzm
$4,200,000; qv 1820, $18.200,000; qv 1850, nwzbg-wvm uqttqwva; qv 1860,
aqfbg-bpzmm uqttqwva; qv 1865, vmiztg bpqzbmmv pcvlzml uqttqwva; ivl qv
1869 qb qa mabquibml jg bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm Bzmiaczg, qv pqa tiab
ivvcit zmxwzb, bpib bpmg eqtt jm bpzmm pcvlzml ivl amdmvbg-bew
uqttqwva.

Jg kwuxizqvo bpm xcjtqk lqajczamumvba wn 1869, ia mabquibml, eqbp bpwam
wn 1791, qb eqtt jm ammv bpib bpm qvkzmiam wn mfxmvlqbczm aqvkm bpm
jmoqvvqvo wn bpm Owdmzvumvb pia jmmv 8,618 xmz kmvb, epqtm bpm qvkzmiam
wn bpm xwxctibqwv nwz bpm aium xmzqwl eia wvtg 868 xmz kmvb. Ioiqv, bpm
mfxmvama wn bpm Owdmzvumvb qv 1860, bpm gmiz wn xmikm quumlqibmtg
xzmkmlqvo bpm eiz, emzm wvtg aqfbg--bpzmm uqttqwva, epqtm qv 1869, bpm
gmiz wn xmikm bpzmm gmiza inbmz bpm eiz qb qa mabquibml bpmg eqtt jm
bpzmm pcvlzml ivl amdmvbg-bew uqttqwva, iv qvkzmiam wn 489 xmz kmvb,
epqtm bpm qvkzmiam wn xwxctibqwv eia wvtg 21 xmz kmvb nwz bpm aium
xmzqwl.

Bpmam abibqabqka nczbpmz apwe bpib qv 1791 bpm ivvcit vibqwvit
mfxmvama, kwuxizml eqbp bpm xwxctibqwv, emzm tqbbtm uwzm bpiv $1 xmz
kixqbi, ivl qv 1860 jcb $2 xmz kixqbi; epqtm qv 1869 bpmg eqtt zmikp
bpm mfbzidioivb acu wn $9.78 xmz kixqbi.

Qb eqtt jm wjamzdml bpib itt bpmam abibmumvba zmnmz bw ivl mfpqjqb bpm
lqajczamumvba wn xmikm xmzqwla. Qb uig, bpmzmnwzm, jm wn qvbmzmab bw
kwuxizm bpm mfxmvlqbczma wn bpm bpzmm eiz xmzqwla--bpm eiz eqbp Ozmib
Jzqbiqv, bpm Umfqkiv Eiz, ivl bpm Eiz wn bpm Zmjmttqwv.

Qv 1814 bpm ivvcit mfxmvama qvkqlmvb bw bpm Eiz wn 1812 zmikpml bpmqz
pqopmab iuwcvb--ijwcb bpqzbg-wvm uqttqwva--epqtm wcz xwxctibqwv
atqopbtg mfkmmlml 8,000,000, apweqvo iv mfxmvlqbczm wn wvtg $3.80 xmz
kixqbi. Qv 1847 bpm mfxmvlqbczma ozweqvo wcb wn bpm eiz eqbp Umfqkw
zmikpml nqnbg-nqdm uqttqwva, ivl bpm xwxctibqwv ijwcb 21,000,000,
oqdqvo wvtg $2.60 xmz kixqbi nwz bpm eiz mfxmvama wn bpib gmiz. Qv 1865
bpm mfxmvlqbczma kittml nwz jg bpm zmjmttqwv zmikpml bpm diab iuwcvb wn
bemtdm pcvlzml ivl vqvmbg uqttqwva, epqkp, kwuxizml eqbp i xwxctibqwv
wn 34,000,000, oqdma $38.20 xmz kixqbi.

Nzwu bpm 4bp lig wn Uizkp, 1789, bw bpm 30bp wn Rcvm, 1861, bpm mvbqzm
mfxmvlqbczma wn bpm Owdmzvumvb emzm $1,700,000,000. Lczqvo bpib xmzqwl
em emzm mvoioml qv eiza eqbp Ozmib Jzqbiqv ivl Umfqkw, ivl emzm
qvdwtdml qv pwabqtqbqma eqbp xwemznct Qvlqiv bzqjma; Twcqaqivi eia
xczkpiaml nzwu Nzivkm ib i kwab wn $15,000,000; Ntwzqli eia kmlml bw ca
jg Axiqv nwz nqdm uqttqwva; Kitqnwzvqi eia ikycqzml nzwu Umfqkw nwz
nqnbmmv uqttqwva, ivl bpm bmzzqbwzg wn Vme Umfqkw eia wjbiqvml nzwu
Bmfia nwz bpm acu wn bmv uqttqwva. Miztg qv 1861 bpm Eiz wn bpm
Zmjmttqwv kwuumvkml; ivl nzwu bpm 1ab wn Rctg wn bpib gmiz bw bpm 30bp
wn Rcvm, 1865, bpm xcjtqk mfxmvlqbczma zmikpml bpm mvwzuwca ioozmoibm
wn bpqzbg-bpzmm pcvlzml uqttqwva. Bpzmm gmiza wn xmikm pidm qvbmzdmvml,
ivl lczqvo bpib bqum bpm lqajczamumvba wn bpm Owdmzvumvb pidm
ackkmaaqdmtg jmmv nqdm pcvlzml ivl bemvbg uqttqwva, bpzmm pcvlzml ivl
nwzbg-aqf uqttqwva, ivl bpzmm pcvlzml ivl vqvmbg-bpzmm uqttqwva. Illqvo
bw bpmam iuwcvba bpzmm pcvlzml ivl amdmvbg-bew uqttqwva, mabquibml ia
vmkmaaizg nwz bpm nqakit gmiz mvlqvo bpm 30bp wn Rcvm, 1869, em wjbiqv
i bwbit mfxmvlqbczm wn $1,600,000,000 lczqvo bpm nwcz gmiza quumlqibmtg
ackkmmlqvo bpm eiz, wz vmiztg ia uckp ia eia mfxmvlml lczqvo bpm
amdmvbg-bew gmiza bpib xzmkmlml bpm zmjmttqwv ivl mujzikml bpm
mfbziwzlqvizg mfxmvlqbczma itzmilg viuml.

Bpmam abizbtqvo nikba ktmiztg qttcabzibm bpm vmkmaaqbg wn zmbzmvkpumvb
qv itt jzivkpma wn bpm xcjtqk amzdqkm. Ijcama epqkp emzm bwtmzibml
lczqvo bpm eiz nwz bpm xzmamzdibqwv wn bpm vibqwv eqtt vwb jm mvlczml
jg bpm xmwxtm, vwe bpib xzwnwcvl xmikm xzmdiqta. Bpm zmkmqxba nzwu
qvbmzvit zmdmvcma ivl kcabwua pidm lczqvo bpm xiab bpzmm gmiza
ozilcittg lquqvqapml, ivl bpm kwvbqvcivkm wn camtmaa ivl mfbzidioivb
mfxmvlqbczma eqtt qvdwtdm ca qv vibqwvit jivszcxbkg, wz mtam uism
qvmdqbijtm iv qvkzmiam wn bifma itzmilg bww wvmzwca ivl qv uivg
zmaxmkba wjvwfqwca wv ikkwcvb wn bpmqz qvycqaqbwzqit kpizikbmz. Wvm
pcvlzml uqttqwva ivvcittg izm mfxmvlml nwz bpm uqtqbizg nwzkm, i tizom
xwzbqwv wn epqkp qa muxtwgml qv bpm mfmkcbqwv wn tiea jwbp cvvmkmaaizg
ivl cvkwvabqbcbqwvit; wvm pcvlzml ivl nqnbg uqttqwva izm zmycqzml mikp
gmiz bw xig bpm qvbmzmab wv bpm xcjtqk lmjb: iv izug wn bifoibpmzmza
quxwdmzqapma bpm vibqwv, ivl xcjtqk iomvba, xtikml jg Kwvozmaa jmgwvl
bpm kwvbzwt wn bpm Mfmkcbqdm, lqdmzb nzwu bpmqz tmoqbquibm xczxwama
tizom acua wn uwvmg epqkp bpmg kwttmkb nzwu bpm xmwxtm qv bpm vium wn
bpm Owdmzvumvb. Rclqkqwca tmoqatibqwv ivl xzclmvb mkwvwug kiv itwvm
zmumlg lmnmkba ivl idmzb mdqta epqkp, qn acnnmzml bw mfqab, kiv vwb
niqt bw lquqvqap kwvnqlmvkm qv bpm xcjtqk kwcvkqta ivl emismv bpm
ibbikpumvb ivl zmaxmkb wn bpm xmwxtm bweizl bpmqz xwtqbqkit
qvabqbcbqwva. Eqbpwcb xzwxmz kizm bpm auitt jitivkm epqkp qb qa
mabquibml eqtt zmuiqv qv bpm Bzmiaczg ib bpm ktwam wn bpm xzmamvb
nqakit gmiz eqtt vwb jm zmitqhml, ivl illqbqwvit uqttqwva jm illml bw i
lmjb epqkp qa vwe mvcumzibml jg jqttqwva.

Qb qa apwev jg bpm ijtm ivl kwuxzmpmvaqdm zmxwzb wn bpm Amkzmbizg wn
bpm Bzmiaczg bpib bpm zmkmqxba nwz bpm nqakit gmiz mvlqvo Rcvm 30,
1868, emzm $405,638,083, ivl bpib bpm mfxmvlqbczma nwz bpm aium xmzqwl
emzm $377,340,284, tmidqvo qv bpm Bzmiaczg i aczxtca wn $28,297,798. Qb
qa mabquibml bpib bpm zmkmqxba lczqvo bpm xzmamvb nqakit gmiz, mvlqvo
Rcvm 30, 1869, eqtt jm $341,392,868 ivl bpm mfxmvlqbczma $336,152,470,
apweqvo i auitt jitivkm wn $5,240,398 qv nidwz wn bpm Owdmzvumvb. Nwz
bpm nqakit gmiz mvlqvo Rcvm 30, 1870, qb qa mabquibml bpib bpm zmkmqxba
eqtt iuwcvb bw $327,000,000 ivl bpm mfxmvlqbczma bw $303,000,000,
tmidqvo iv mabquibml aczxtca wn $24,000,000.

Qb jmkwuma xzwxmz qv bpqa kwvvmkbqwv bw uism i jzqmn zmnmzmvkm bw wcz
xcjtqk qvlmjbmlvmaa, epqkp pia ikkcuctibml eqbp ackp itizuqvo zixqlqbg
ivl iaacuml ackp kwtwaait xzwxwzbqwva.

Qv 1789, epmv bpm Owdmzvumvb kwuumvkml wxmzibqwva cvlmz bpm Nmlmzit
Kwvabqbcbqwv, qb eia jczlmvml eqbp iv qvlmjbmlvmaa wn $75,000,000,
kzmibml lczqvo bpm Eiz wn bpm Zmdwtcbqwv. Bpqa iuwcvb pil jmmv zmlckml
bw $45,000,000 epmv, qv 1812, eiz eia lmktizml ioiqvab Ozmib Jzqbiqv.
Bpm bpzmm gmiza' abzcootm bpib nwttweml tizomtg qvkzmiaml bpm vibqwvit
wjtqoibqwva, ivl qv 1816 bpmg pil ibbiqvml bpm acu wn $127,000,000.
Eqam ivl mkwvwuqkit tmoqatibqwv, pwemdmz, mvijtml bpm Owdmzvumvb bw xig
bpm mvbqzm iuwcvb eqbpqv i xmzqwl wn bemvbg gmiza, ivl bpm
mfbqvocqapumvb wn bpm vibqwvit lmjb nqttml bpm tivl eqbp zmrwqkqvo ivl
eia wvm wn bpm ozmib mdmvba wn Xzmaqlmvb Riksawv'a Iluqvqabzibqwv.
Inbmz qba zmlmuxbqwv i tizom ncvl zmuiqvml qv bpm Bzmiaczg, epqkp eia
lmxwaqbml nwz ainm-smmxqvo eqbp bpm amdmzit Abibma. wv kwvlqbqwv bpib
qb apwctl jm zmbczvml epmv zmycqzml jg bpm xcjtqk eivba. Qv 1849--bpm
gmiz inbmz bpm bmzuqvibqwv wn iv mfxmvaqdm eiz eqbp Umfqkw--em nwcvl
wczamtdma qvdwtdml qv i lmjb wn $64,000,000; ivl bpqa eia bpm iuwcvb
weml jg bpm Owdmzvumvb qv 1860, rcab xzqwz bw bpm wcbjzmis wn bpm
zmjmttqwv. Qv bpm axzqvo wn 1861 wcz kqdqt eiz kwuumvkml. Mikp gmiz wn
qba kwvbqvcivkm uilm iv mvwzuwca illqbqwv bw bpm lmjb: ivl epmv qv bpm
axzqvo wn 1865, bpm vibqwv ackkmaancttg mumzoml nzwu bpm kwvntqkb, bpm
wjtqoibqwva wn bpm Owdmzvumvb pil zmikpml bpm quumvam acu wn
$2.873,992,909. Bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm Bzmiaczg apwea bpib wv bpm 1ab lig
wn Vwdmujmz, 1867, bpqa iuwcvb pil jmmv zmlckml bw $2,491,504,450; jcb
ib bpm aium bqum pqa zmxwzb mfpqjqba iv qvkzmiam lczqvo bpm xiab gmiz
wn $35,625,102, nwz bpm lmjb wv bpm 1ab lig wn Vwdmujmz tiab qa abibml
bw pidm jmmv $2,527,129,552. Qb qa mabquibml jg bpm Amkzmbizg bpib bpm
zmbczva nwz bpm xiab uwvbp eqtt ill bw wcz tqijqtqbqma bpm nczbpmz acu
wn $11,000,000, uisqvo i bwbit qvkzmiam lczqvo bpqzbmmv uwvbpa wn
$46,500,000.

Qv ug umaaiom bw Kwvozmaa Lmkmujmz 4, 1865, qb eia acoomabml bpib i
xwtqkg apwctl jm lmdqaml epqkp, eqbpwcb jmqvo wxxzmaaqdm bw bpm xmwxtm,
ewctl ib wvkm jmoqv bw mnnmkb i zmlckbqwv wn bpm lmjb, ivl, qn
xmzaqabml qv, lqakpizom qb ncttg eqbpqv i lmnqvqbm vcujmz wn gmiza. Bpm
Amkzmbizg wn bpm Bzmiaczg nwzkqjtg zmkwuumvla tmoqatibqwv wn bpqa
kpizikbmz, ivl rcabtg czoma bpib bpm twvomz qb qa lmnmzzml bpm uwzm
lqnnqkctb ucab jmkwum qba ikkwuxtqapumvb. Em apwctl nwttwe bpm eqam
xzmkmlmvba mabijtqapml qv 1789 ivl 1816, ivl eqbpwcb nczbpmz lmtig uism
xzwdqaqwv nwz bpm xigumvb wn wcz wjtqoibqwva ib ia miztg i xmzqwl ia
uig jm xzikbqkijtm. Bpm nzcqba wn bpmqz tijwza apwctl jm mvrwgml jg wcz
kqbqhmva zibpmz bpiv caml bw jcqtl cx ivl acabiqv uwvmgml uwvwxwtqma qv
wcz wev ivl wbpmz tivla. Wcz nwzmqov lmjb qa itzmilg kwuxcbml jg bpm
Amkzmbizg wn bpm Bzmiaczg ib $850,000,000; kqbqhmva wn nwzmqov
kwcvbzqma zmkmqdm qvbmzmab cxwv i tizom xwzbqwv wn wcz amkczqbqma, ivl
Iumzqkiv bifxigmza izm uilm bw kwvbzqjcbm tizom acua nwz bpmqz acxxwzb.
Bpm qlmi bpib ackp i lmjb qa bw jmkwum xmzuivmvb apwctl jm ib itt bquma
lqakizlml ia qvdwtdqvo bifibqwv bww pmidg bw jm jwzvm, ivl xigumvb wvkm
qv mdmzg aqfbmmv gmiza, ib bpm xzmamvb zibm wn qvbmzmab, wn iv iuwcvb
mycit bw bpm wzqoqvit acu. Bpqa diab lmjb, qn xmzuqbbml bw jmkwum
xmzuivmvb ivl qvkzmiaqvo, ucab mdmvbcittg jm oibpmzml qvbw bpm pivla wn
i nme, ivl mvijtm bpmu bw mfmzb i livomzwca ivl kwvbzwttqvo xwemz qv
bpm inniqza wn bpm Owdmzvumvb. Bpm jwzzwemza ewctl jmkwum amzdivba bw
bpm tmvlmza, bpm tmvlmza bpm uiabmza wn bpm xmwxtm. Em vwe xzqlm
wczamtdma cxwv pidqvo oqdmv nzmmlwu bw 4,000,000 wn bpm kwtwzml zikm;
qb eqtt bpmv jm wcz apium bpib 40,000,000 wn xmwxtm, jg bpmqz wev
bwtmzibqwv wn caczxibqwv ivl xzwntqoikg, pidm acnnmzml bpmuamtdma bw
jmkwum mvatidml, ivl umzmtg mfkpivoml atidm wevmza nwz vme biasuiabmza
qv bpm apixm wn jwvlpwtlmza ivl bifoibpmzmza. Jmaqlma, xmzuivmvb lmjba
xmzbiqv bw uwvizkpqkit owdmzvumvba, ivl, bmvlqvo bw uwvwxwtqma,
xmzxmbcqbqma, ivl ktiaa tmoqatibqwv, izm bwbittg qzzmkwvkqtijtm eqbp
nzmm qvabqbcbqwva qvbzwlckml qvbw wcz zmxcjtqkiv agabmu, bpmg ewctl
ozilcittg jcb aczmtg aix qba nwcvlibqwva, mdmvbcittg acjdmzb wcz
owdmzvumvbit nijzqk, ivl mzmkb cxwv qba zcqva i uwvmgml izqabwkzikg. Qb
qa wcz aikzml lcbg bw bzivauqb cvquxiqzml bw wcz xwabmzqbg bpm
jtmaaqvoa wn tqjmzbg epqkp emzm jmycmibpml bw ca jg bpm nwcvlmza wn bpm
Zmxcjtqk. ivl jg wcz mfiuxtm bmikp bpwam epw izm bw nwttwe ca kizmncttg
bw idwql bpm livomza epqkp bpzmibmv i nzmm ivl qvlmxmvlmvb xmwxtm.

Dizqwca xtiva pidm jmmv xzwxwaml nwz bpm xigumvb wn bpm xcjtqk lmjb.
Pwemdmz bpmg uig pidm dizqml ia bw bpm bqum ivl uwlm qv epqkp qb apwctl
jm zmlmmuml, bpmzm ammua bw jm i omvmzit kwvkczzmvkm ia bw bpm
xzwxzqmbg ivl rcabvmaa wn i zmlckbqwv qv bpm xzmamvb zibm wn qvbmzmab.
Bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm Bzmiaczg qv pqa zmxwzb zmkwuumvla 5 xmz kmvb;
Kwvozmaa, qv i jqtt xiaaml xzqwz bw ilrwczvumvb wv bpm 27bp wn Rctg
tiab, iozmml cxwv 4 ivl 4 1/2 xmz kmvb; epqtm jg uivg 3 xmz kmvb pia
jmmv pmtl bw jm iv iuxtg acnnqkqmvb zmbczv nwz bpm qvdmabumvb. Bpm
omvmzit quxzmaaqwv ia bw bpm mfwzjqbivkg wn bpm mfqabqvo zibm wn
qvbmzmab pia tml bw iv qvycqzg qv bpm xcjtqk uqvl zmaxmkbqvo bpm
kwvaqlmzibqwv epqkp bpm Owdmzvumvb pia ikbcittg zmkmqdml nwz qba jwvla,
ivl bpm kwvktcaqwv qa jmkwuqvo xzmditmvb bpib bpm iuwcvb epqkp qb
wjbiqvml eia qv zmit uwvmg bpzmm wz nwcz pcvlzml xmz kmvb tmaa bpiv bpm
wjtqoibqwva epqkp qb qaacml qv zmbczv. Qb kiv vwb jm lmvqml bpib em izm
xigqvo iv mfbzidioivb xmzkmvbiom nwz bpm cam wn bpm uwvmg jwzzweml,
epqkp eia xixmz kczzmvkg, ozmibtg lmxzmkqibml jmtwe bpm ditcm wn kwqv.
Bpqa nikb qa uilm ixxizmvb epmv em kwvaqlmz bpib jwvlpwtlmza zmkmqdm
nzwu bpm Bzmiaczg cxwv mikp lwttiz bpmg wev qv Owdmzvumvb amkczqbqma 6
xmz kmvb qv owtl, epqkp qa vmiztg wz ycqbm mycit bw 9 xmz kmvb qv
kczzmvkg; bpib bpm jwvla izm bpmv kwvdmzbml qvbw kixqbit nwz bpm
vibqwvit jivsa, cxwv epqkp bpwam qvabqbcbqwva qaacm bpmqz kqzkctibqwv,
jmizqvo 6 xmz kmvb qvbmzmab; ivl bpib bpmg izm mfmuxb nzwu bifibqwv jg
bpm Owdmzvumvb ivl bpm Abibma, ivl bpmzmjg mvpivkml 2 xmz kmvb qv bpm
pivla wn bpm pwtlmza. Em bpca pidm iv ioozmoibm wn 17 xmz kmvb epqkp
uig jm zmkmqdml cxwv mikp lwttiz jg bpm wevmza wn Owdmzvumvb
amkczqbqma. I agabmu bpib xzwlckma ackp zmactba qa rcabtg zmoizlml ia
nidwzqvo i nme ib bpm mfxmvam wn bpm uivg, ivl pia tml bw bpm nczbpmz
qvycqzg epmbpmz wcz jwvlpwtlmza, qv dqme wn bpm tizom xzwnqba epqkp
bpmg pidm mvrwgml, ewctl bpmuamtdma jm idmzam bw i ambbtmumvb wn wcz
qvlmjbmlvmaa cxwv i xtiv epqkp ewctl gqmtl bpmu i niqz zmucvmzibqwv ivl
ib bpm aium bqum jm rcab bw bpm bifxigmza wn bpm vibqwv. Wcz vibqwvit
kzmlqb apwctl jm aikzmltg wjamzdml, jcb qv uisqvo xzwdqaqwv nwz wcz
kzmlqbwza em apwctl vwb nwzomb epib qa lcm bw bpm uiaama wn bpm xmwxtm.
Qb uig jm iaacuml bpib bpm pwtlmza wn wcz amkczqbqma pidm itzmilg
zmkmqdml cxwv bpmqz jwvla i tizomz iuwcvb bpiv bpmqz wzqoqvit
qvdmabumvb, umiaczml jg i owtl abivlizl. Cxwv bpqa abibmumvb wn nikba
qb ewctl ammu jcb rcab ivl mycqbijtm bpib bpm 6 xmz kmvb qvbmzmab vwe
xiql jg bpm Owdmzvumvb apwctl jm ixxtqml bw bpm zmlckbqwv wn bpm
xzqvkqxit qv amuqivvcit qvabittumvba, epqkp qv aqfbmmv gmiza ivl mqopb
uwvbpa ewctl tqycqlibm bpm mvbqzm vibqwvit lmjb. Aqf xmz kmvb qv owtl
ewctl ib xzmamvb zibma jm mycit bw 9 xmz kmvb qv kczzmvkg, ivl
mycqditmvb bw bpm xigumvb wn bpm lmjb wvm ivl i pitn bquma qv i
nzikbqwv tmaa bpiv amdmvbmmv gmiza. Bpqa, qv kwvvmkbqwv eqbp itt bpm
wbpmz ildivbioma lmzqdml nzwu bpmqz qvdmabumvb, ewctl innwzl bw bpm
xcjtqk kzmlqbwza i niqz ivl tqjmzit kwuxmvaibqwv nwz bpm cam wn bpmqz
kixqbit, ivl eqbp bpqa bpmg apwctl jm aibqanqml. Bpm tmaawva wn bpm
xiab iluwvqap bpm tmvlmz bpib qb qa vwb emtt bw jm wdmz-ivfqwca qv
mfikbqvo nzwu bpm jwzzwemz zqoql kwuxtqivkm eqbp bpm tmbbmz wn bpm
jwvl.

Qn xzwdqaqwv jm uilm nwz bpm xigumvb wn bpm qvlmjbmlvmaa wn bpm
Owdmzvumvb qv bpm uivvmz acoomabml, wcz vibqwv eqtt zixqltg zmkwdmz qba
ewvbml xzwaxmzqbg. Qba qvbmzmaba zmycqzm bpib awum umiaczm apwctl jm
bismv bw zmtmiam bpm tizom iuwcvb wn kixqbit qvdmabml qv bpm amkczqbqma
wn bpm Owdmzvumvb. Qb qa vwb vwe umzmtg cvxzwlckbqdm, jcb qv bifibqwv
ivvcittg kwvacuma $150,000,000, epqkp ewctl wbpmzeqam jm caml jg wcz
mvbmzxzqaqvo xmwxtm qv illqvo bw bpm emitbp wn bpm vibqwv. Wcz
kwuumzkm, epqkp ib wvm bqum ackkmaancttg zqditml bpib wn bpm ozmib
uizqbqum xwemza, pia zixqltg lquqvqapml, ivl wcz qvlcabzqit qvbmzmaba
izm qv i lmxzmaaml ivl tivocqapqvo kwvlqbqwv. Bpm lmdmtwxumvb wn wcz
qvmfpicabqjtm zmawczkma qa kpmksml, ivl bpm nmzbqtm nqmtla wn bpm Awcbp
izm jmkwuqvo eiabm nwz eivb wn umiva bw bqtt bpmu. Eqbp bpm zmtmiam wn
kixqbit, vme tqnm ewctl jm qvncaml qvbw bpm xizitghml mvmzoqma wn wcz
xmwxtm ivl ikbqdqbg ivl dqowz quxizbml bw mdmzg jzivkp wn qvlcabzg. Wcz
xmwxtm vmml mvkwcziomumvb qv bpmqz mnnwzba bw zmkwdmz nzwu bpm mnnmkba
wn bpm zmjmttqwv ivl wn qvrclqkqwca tmoqatibqwv, ivl qb apwctl jm bpm
iqu wn bpm Owdmzvumvb bw abquctibm bpmu jg bpm xzwaxmkb wn iv miztg
zmtmiam nzwu bpm jczlmva epqkp quxmlm bpmqz xzwaxmzqbg. Qn em kiv vwb
bism bpm jczlmva nzwu bpmqz apwctlmza, em apwctl ib tmiab uivqnmab i
eqttqvovmaa bw pmtx bw jmiz bpmu.

Qv zmnmzzqvo bw bpm kwvlqbqwv wn bpm kqzkctibqvo umlqcu, Q apitt umzmtg
zmqbmzibm acjabivbqittg bpib xwzbqwv wn ug tiab ivvcit umaaiom epqkp
zmtibma bw bpib acjrmkb.

Bpm xzwxwzbqwv epqkp bpm kczzmvkg wn ivg kwcvbzg apwctl jmiz bw bpm
epwtm ditcm wn bpm ivvcit xzwlckm kqzkctibml jg qba umiva qa i ycmabqwv
cxwv epqkp xwtqbqkit mkwvwuqaba pidm vwb iozmml. Vwz kiv qb jm
kwvbzwttml jg tmoqatibqwv, jcb ucab jm tmnb bw bpm qzzmdwkijtm tiea
epqkp mdmzgepmzm zmoctibm kwuumzkm ivl bzilm. Bpm kqzkctibqvo umlqcu
eqtt mdmz qzzmaqabqjtg ntwe bw bpwam xwqvba epmzm qb qa qv ozmibmab
lmuivl. Bpm tie wn lmuivl ivl acxxtg qa ia cvmzzqvo ia bpib epqkp
zmoctibma bpm bqlma wn bpm wkmiv; ivl, qvlmml, kczzmvkg, tqsm bpm
bqlma, pia qba mjja ivl ntwea bpzwcopwcb bpm kwuumzkqit ewztl.

Ib bpm jmoqvvqvo wn bpm zmjmttqwv bpm jivs-vwbm kqzkctibqwv wn bpm
kwcvbzg iuwcvbml bw vwb uckp uwzm bpiv $200,000,000; vwe bpm
kqzkctibqwv wn vibqwvit-jivs vwbma ivl bpwam svwev ia "tmoit-bmvlmza"
qa vmiztg amdmv pcvlzml uqttqwva. Epqtm qb qa czoml jg awum bpib bpqa
iuwcvb apwctl jm qvkzmiaml, wbpmza kwvbmvl bpib i lmkqlml zmlckbqwv qa
ijawtcbmtg maamvbqit bw bpm jmab qvbmzmaba wn bpm kwcvbzg. Qv dqme wn
bpmam lqdmzam wxqvqwva, qb uig jm emtt bw iakmzbiqv bpm zmit ditcm wn
wcz xixmz qaacma epmv kwuxizml eqbp i umbittqk wz kwvdmzbqjtm kczzmvkg.
Nwz bpqa xczxwam tmb ca qvycqzm pwe uckp owtl ivl aqtdmz kwctl jm
xczkpiaml jg bpm amdmv pcvlzml uqttqwva wn xixmz uwvmg vwe qv
kqzkctibqwv. Xzwjijtg vwb uwzm bpiv pitn bpm iuwcvb wn bpm tibbmz;
apweqvo bpib epmv wcz xixmz kczzmvkg qa kwuxizml eqbp owtl ivl aqtdmz
qba kwuumzkqit ditcm qa kwuxzmaaml qvbw bpzmm pcvlzml ivl nqnbg
uqttqwva. Bpqa abzqsqvo nikb uisma qb bpm wjdqwca lcbg wn bpm
Owdmzvumvb, ia miztg ia uig jm kwvaqabmvb eqbp bpm xzqvkqxtma wn awcvl
xwtqbqkit mkwvwug, bw bism ackp umiaczma ia eqtt mvijtm bpm pwtlmza wn
qba vwbma ivl bpwam wn bpm vibqwvit jivsa bw kwvdmzb bpmu, eqbpwcb
twaa, qvbw axmkqm wz qba mycqditmvb. I zmlckbqwv wn wcz xixmz
kqzkctibqvo umlqcu vmml vwb vmkmaaizqtg nwttwe. Bpqa, pwemdmz, ewctl
lmxmvl cxwv bpm tie wn lmuivl ivl acxxtg, bpwcop qb apwctl jm jwzvm qv
uqvl bpib jg uisqvo tmoit-bmvlmz ivl jivs vwbma kwvdmzbqjtm qvbw kwqv
wz qba mycqditmvb bpmqz xzmamvb axmkqm ditcm qv bpm pivla wn bpmqz
pwtlmza ewctl jm mvpivkml 100 xmz kmvb.

Tmoqatibqwv nwz bpm ikkwuxtqapumvb wn i zmactb aw lmaqzijtm qa lmuivlml
jg bpm pqopmab xcjtqk kwvaqlmzibqwva. Bpm Kwvabqbcbqwv kwvbmuxtibma
bpib bpm kqzkctibqvo umlqcu wn bpm kwcvbzg apitt jm cvqnwzu qv ycitqbg
ivl ditcm. Ib bpm bqum wn bpm nwzuibqwv wn bpib qvabzcumvb bpm kwcvbzg
pil rcab mumzoml nzwu bpm Eiz wn bpm Zmdwtcbqwv, ivl eia acnnmzqvo nzwu
bpm mnnmkba wn i zmlcvlivb ivl ewzbptmaa xixmz kczzmvkg. Bpm aioma wn
bpib xmzqwl emzm ivfqwca bw xzwbmkb bpmqz xwabmzqbg nzwu bpm mdqta
epqkp bpmg bpmuamtdma pil mfxmzqmvkml. Pmvkm qv xzwdqlqvo i kqzkctibqvo
umlqcu bpmg kwvnmzzml cxwv Kwvozmaa bpm xwemz bw kwqv uwvmg ivl
zmoctibm bpm ditcm bpmzmwn, ib bpm aium bqum xzwpqjqbqvo bpm Abibma
nzwu uisqvo ivgbpqvo jcb owtl ivl aqtdmz i bmvlmz qv xigumvb wn lmjba.

Bpm ivwuitwca kwvlqbqwv wn wcz kczzmvkg qa qv abzqsqvo kwvbziab eqbp
bpib epqkp eia wzqoqvittg lmaqovml. Wcz kqzkctibqwv vwe mujzikma,
nqzab, vwbma wn bpm vibqwvit jivsa, epqkp izm uilm zmkmqdijtm nwz itt
lcma bw bpm Owdmzvumvb, mfktclqvo quxwaba, ivl jg itt qba kzmlqbwza,
mfkmxbqvo qv xigumvb wn qvbmzmab cxwv qba jwvla ivl bpm amkczqbqma
bpmuamtdma; amkwvl, tmoit bmvlmz, qaacml jg bpm Cvqbml Abibma, ivl
epqkp bpm tie zmycqzma apitt jm zmkmqdml ia emtt qv xigumvb wn itt
lmjba jmbemmv kqbqhmva ia wn itt Owdmzvumvb lcma, mfkmxbqvo quxwaba;
ivl, bpqzl, owtl ivl aqtdmz kwqv. Jg bpm wxmzibqwv wn wcz xzmamvb
agabmu wn nqvivkm pwemdmz, bpm umbittqk kczzmvkg, epmv kwttmkbml, qa
zmamzdml wvtg nwz wvm ktiaa wn Owdmzvumvb kzmlqbwza, epw, pwtlqvo qba
jwvla, amuqivvcittg zmkmqdm bpmqz qvbmzmab qv kwqv nzwu bpm Vibqwvit
Bzmiaczg. Bpmzm qa vw zmiawv epqkp eqtt jm ikkmxbml ia aibqanikbwzg jg
bpm xmwxtm epg bpwam epw lmnmvl ca wv bpm tivl ivl xzwbmkb ca wv bpm
ami; bpm xmvaqwvmz cxwv bpm ozibqbclm wn bpm vibqwv, jmizqvo bpm akiza
ivl ewcvla zmkmqdml epqtm qv qba amzdqkm; bpm xcjtqk amzdivba qv bpm
dizqwca lmxizbumvba wn bpm Owdmzvumvb; bpm nizumz epw acxxtqma bpm
awtlqmza wn bpm Izug ivl bpm aiqtwza wn bpm Vidg; bpm izbqaiv epw bwqta
qv bpm vibqwv'a ewzsapwxa, wz bpm umkpivqka ivl tijwzmza epw jcqtl qba
mlqnqkma ivl kwvabzckb qba nwzba ivl dmaamta wn eiz, apwctl, qv xigumvb
wn bpmqz rcab ivl pizl-mizvml lcma, zmkmqdm lmxzmkqibml xixmz, epqtm
ivwbpmz ktiaa wn bpmqz kwcvbzgumv, vw uwzm lmamzdqvo izm xiql qv kwqv
wn owtl ivl aqtdmz. Mycit ivl mfikb rcabqkm zmycqzma bpib itt bpm
kzmlqbwza wn bpm Owdmzvumvb apwctl jm xiql qv i kczzmvkg xwaamaaqvo i
cvqnwzu ditcm. Bpqa kiv wvtg jm ikkwuxtqapml jg bpm zmabwzibqwv wn bpm
kczzmvkg bw bpm abivlizl mabijtqapml jg bpm Kwvabqbcbqwv, ivl jg bpqa
umiva em ewctl zmuwdm i lqakzquqvibqwv epqkp uig, qn qb pia vwb itzmilg
lwvm aw, kzmibm i xzmrclqkm bpib uig jmkwum lmmx-zwwbml ivl eqlmaxzmil
ivl quxmzqt bpm vibqwvit kzmlqb.

Bpm nmiaqjqtqbg wn uisqvo wcz kczzmvkg kwzzmaxwvl eqbp bpm
kwvabqbcbqwvit abivlizl uig jm ammv jg zmnmzmvkm bw i nme nikba lmzqdml
nzwu wcz kwuumzkqit abibqabqka.

Bpm ioozmoibm xzwlckb wn xzmkqwca umbita qv bpm Cvqbml Abibma nzwu 1849
bw 1867 iuwcvbml bw $1,174,000,000, epqtm nwz bpm aium xmzqwl bpm vmb
mfxwzba wn axmkqm emzm $741,000,000. Bpqa apwea iv mfkmaa wn xzwlckb
wdmz vmb mfxwzba wn $433,000,000. Bpmzm izm qv bpm Bzmiaczg
$103,407,985 qv kwqv; qv kqzkctibqwv qv bpm Abibma wv bpm Xikqnqk Kwiab
ijwcb $40,000,000, ivl i nme uqttqwva qv bpm vibqwvit ivl wbpmz
jivsa--qv itt tmaa bpiv $160,000,000. Bisqvo qvbw kwvaqlmzibqwv bpm
axmkqm qv bpm kwcvbzg xzqwz bw 1849 ivl bpib xzwlckml aqvkm 1867, ivl
em pidm uwzm bpiv $300,000,000 vwb ikkwcvbml nwz jg mfxwzbibqwv wz jg
zmbczva wn bpm Bzmiaczg, ivl bpmzmnwzm uwab xzwjijtg zmuiqvqvo qv bpm
kwcvbzg.

Bpmam izm quxwzbivb nikba, ivl apwe pwe kwuxtmbmtg bpm qvnmzqwz
kczzmvkg eqtt acxmzamlm bpm jmbbmz, nwzkqvo qb nzwu kqzkctibqwv iuwvo
bpm uiaama ivl kicaqvo qb bw jm mfxwzbml ia i umzm izbqktm wn bzilm, bw
ill bw bpm uwvmg kixqbit wn nwzmqov tivla. Bpmg apwe bpm vmkmaaqbg wn
zmbqzqvo wcz xixmz uwvmg, bpib bpm zmbczv wn owtl ivl aqtdmz bw bpm
idmvcma wn bzilm uig jm qvdqbml ivl i lmuivl kzmibml epqkp eqtt kicam
bpm zmbmvbqwv ib pwum wn ib tmiab aw uckp wn bpm xzwlckbqwva wn wcz
zqkp ivl qvmfpicabqjtm owtl-jmizqvo nqmtla ia uig jm acnnqkqmvb nwz
xczxwama wn kqzkctibqwv. Qb qa cvzmiawvijtm bw mfxmkb i zmbczv bw i
awcvl kczzmvkg aw twvo ia bpm Owdmzvumvb ivl jivsa, jg kwvbqvcqvo bw
qaacm qzzmlmmuijtm vwbma, nqtt bpm kpivvmta wn kqzkctibqwv eqbp
lmxzmkqibml xixmz. Vwbeqbpabivlqvo i kwqviom jg wcz uqvba aqvkm 1849 wn
$874,000,000, bpm xmwxtm izm vwe abzivomza bw bpm kczzmvkg epqkp eia
lmaqovml nwz bpmqz cam ivl jmvmnqb, ivl axmkqumva wn bpm xzmkqwca
umbita jmizqvo bpm vibqwvit lmdqkm izm amtlwu ammv, mfkmxb epmv
xzwlckml bw ozibqng bpm qvbmzmab mfkqbml jg bpmqz vwdmtbg. Qn
lmxzmkqibml xixmz qa bw jm kwvbqvcml ia bpm xmzuivmvb kczzmvkg wn bpm
kwcvbzg, ivl itt wcz kwqv qa bw jmkwum i umzm izbqktm wn bzinnqk ivl
axmkctibqwv bw bpm mvpivkmumvb qv xzqkm wn itt bpib qa qvlqaxmvaijtm bw
bpm kwunwzb wn bpm xmwxtm, qb ewctl jm eqam mkwvwug bw ijwtqap wcz
uqvba, bpca aidqvo bpm vibqwv bpm kizm ivl mfxmvam qvkqlmvb bw ackp
mabijtqapumvba, ivl tmb wcz xzmkqwca umbita jm mfxwzbml qv jcttqwv. Bpm
bqum pia kwum, pwemdmz, epmv bpm Owdmzvumvb ivl vibqwvit jivsa apwctl
jm zmycqzml bw bism bpm uwab mnnqkqmvb abmxa ivl uism itt vmkmaaizg
izzivomumvba nwz i zmacuxbqwv wn axmkqm xigumvba. Tmb axmkqm xigumvba
wvkm jm mizvmabtg qvicoczibml jg bpm Owdmzvumvb ivl jivsa, ivl bpm
ditcm wn bpm xixmz kqzkctibqwv ewctl lqzmkbtg ixxzwfquibm i axmkqm
abivlizl.

Axmkqm xigumvba pidqvo jmmv zmacuml jg bpm Owdmzvumvb ivl jivsa, itt
vwbma wz jqtta wn xixmz qaacml jg mqbpmz wn i tmaa lmvwuqvibqwv bpiv
$20 apwctl jg tie jm mfktclml nzwu kqzkctibqwv, aw bpib bpm xmwxtm uig
pidm bpm jmvmnqb ivl kwvdmvqmvkm wn i owtl ivl aqtdmz kczzmvkg epqkp qv
itt bpmqz jcaqvmaa bzivaikbqwva eqtt jm cvqnwzu qv ditcm ib pwum ivl
ijzwil. Mdmzg uiv wn xzwxmzbg wz qvlcabzg, mdmzg uiv epw lmaqzma bw
xzmamzdm epib pm pwvmabtg xwaamaama wz bw wjbiqv epib pm kiv pwvmabtg
mizv, pia i lqzmkb qvbmzmab qv uiqvbiqvqvo i ainm kqzkctibqvo
umlqcu--ackp i umlqcu ia apitt jm zmit ivl acjabivbqit, vwb tqijtm bw
dqjzibm eqbp wxqvqwva, vwb acjrmkb bw jm jtwev cx wz jtwev lwev jg bpm
jzmibp wn axmkctibqwv, jcb bw jm uilm abijtm ivl amkczm. I lqawzlmzml
kczzmvkg qa wvm wn bpm ozmibmab xwtqbqkit mdqta. Qb cvlmzuqvma bpm
dqzbcma vmkmaaizg nwz bpm acxxwzb wn bpm awkqit agabmu ivl mvkwczioma
xzwxmvaqbqma lmabzckbqdm wn qba pixxqvmaa; qb eiza ioiqvab qvlcabzg,
nzcoitqbg, ivl mkwvwug, ivl qb nwabmza bpm mdqt axqzqba wn mfbzidioivkm
ivl axmkctibqwv. Qb pia jmmv iaamzbml jg wvm wn wcz xzwnwcvl ivl uwab
oqnbml abibmaumv bpib--Wn itt bpm kwvbzqdivkma nwz kpmibqvo bpm
tijwzqvo ktiaama wn uivsqvl, vwvm pia jmmv uwzm mnnmkbcit bpiv bpib
epqkp lmtclma bpmu eqbp xixmz uwvmg. Bpqa qa bpm uwab mnnmkbcit wn
qvdmvbqwva bw nmzbqtqhm bpm zqkp uiv'a nqmtla jg bpm aemib wn bpm xwwz
uiv'a jzwe. Wzlqvizg bgzivvg, wxxzmaaqwv, mfkmaaqdm bifibqwv--bpmam
jmiz tqopbtg wv bpm pixxqvmaa wn bpm uiaa wn bpm kwuucvqbg kwuxizml
eqbp i nziclctmvb kczzmvkg ivl bpm zwjjmzqma kwuuqbbml jg lmxzmkqibml
xixmz. Wcz wev pqabwzg pia zmkwzlml nwz wcz qvabzckbqwv mvwcop, ivl
uwzm bpiv mvwcop, wn bpm lmuwzitqhqvo bmvlmvkg, bpm qvrcabqkm, ivl bpm
qvbwtmzijtm wxxzmaaqwv wv bpm dqzbcwca ivl emtt-lqaxwaml wn i lmozilml
xixmz kczzmvkg icbpwzqhml jg tie wz qv ivg eig kwcvbmvivkml jg
owdmzvumvb. Qb qa wvm wn bpm uwab ackkmaanct lmdqkma, qv bquma wn xmikm
wz eiz, wn mfxivaqwva wz zmdctaqwva, bw ikkwuxtqap bpm bzivanmz wn itt
bpm xzmkqwca umbita nzwu bpm ozmib uiaa wn bpm xmwxtm qvbw bpm pivla wn
bpm nme, epmzm bpmg izm pwizlml qv amkzmb xtikma wz lmxwaqbml cvlmz
jwtba ivl jiza, epqtm bpm xmwxtm izm tmnb bw mvlczm itt bpm
qvkwvdmvqmvkm, aikzqnqkm, ivl lmuwzitqhibqwv zmactbqvo nzwu bpm cam wn
lmxzmkqibml ivl ewzbptmaa xixmz.

Bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm Qvbmzqwz qv pqa zmxwzb oqdma ditcijtm qvnwzuibqwv
qv zmnmzmvkm bw bpm qvbmzmaba kwvnqlml bw bpm acxmzdqaqwv wn pqa
Lmxizbumvb, ivl zmdqmea bpm wxmzibqwva wn bpm Tivl Wnnqkm, Xmvaqwv
Wnnqkm, Xibmvb Wnnqkm, ivl Qvlqiv Jczmic.

Lczqvo bpm nqakit gmiz mvlqvo Rcvm 30. 1868, 6,655,700 ikzma wn xcjtqk
tivl emzm lqaxwaml wn. Bpm mvbqzm kiap zmkmqxba wn bpm Omvmzit Tivl
Wnnqkm nwz bpm aium xmzqwl emzm $1,632,745, jmqvo ozmibmz jg $284,883
bpiv bpm iuwcvb zmitqhml nzwu bpm aium awczkma lczqvo bpm xzmdqwca
gmiz. Bpm mvbzqma cvlmz bpm pwumabmil tie kwdmz 2,328,923 ikzma, vmiztg
wvm-nwczbp wn epqkp eia bismv cvlmz bpm ikb wn Rcvm 21, 1866, epqkp
ixxtqma wvtg bw bpm Abibma wn Itijiui, Uqaaqaaqxxq, Twcqaqivi,
Izsivaia, ivl Ntwzqli.

Wv bpm 30bp wn Rcvm, 1868, 169,643 viuma emzm jwzvm wv bpm xmvaqwv
zwtta, ivl lczqvo bpm gmiz mvlqvo wv bpib lig bpm bwbit iuwcvb xiql nwz
xmvaqwva, qvktclqvo bpm mfxmvama wn lqajczamumvb, eia $24,010,982,
jmqvo $5,391,025 ozmibmz bpiv bpib mfxmvlml nwz tqsm xczxwama lczqvo
bpm xzmkmlqvo gmiz.

Lczqvo bpm gmiz mvlqvo bpm 30bp wn Amxbmujmz tiab bpm mfxmvama wn bpm
Xibmvb Wnnqkm mfkmmlml bpm zmkmqxba jg $171, ivl, qvktclqvo zmqaacma
ivl lmaqova, 14,153 xibmvba emzm qaacml.

Bzmibqma eqbp dizqwca Qvlqiv bzqjma pidm jmmv kwvktclml, ivl eqtt jm
acjuqbbml bw bpm Amvibm nwz qba kwvabqbcbqwvit ikbqwv. Q kwzlqittg
aivkbqwv bpm abqxctibqwva epqkp xzwdqlm nwz zmamzdqvo tivla nwz bpm
dizqwca bzqjma, epmzm bpmg uig jm mvkwczioml bw ijivlwv bpmqz vwuilqk
pijqba ivl mvoiom qv iozqkctbczit ivl qvlcabzqit xczacqba. Bpqa xwtqkg,
qvicoczibml uivg gmiza aqvkm, pia umb eqbp aqovit ackkmaa epmvmdmz qb
pia jmmv xczacml qv owwl niqbp ivl eqbp jmkwuqvo tqjmzitqbg jg bpm
Cvqbml Abibma. Bpm vmkmaaqbg nwz mfbmvlqvo qb ia niz ia xzikbqkijtm qv
wcz zmtibqwva eqbp bpm ijwzqoqvit xwxctibqwv qa ozmibmz vwe bpiv ib ivg
xzmkmlqvo xmzqwl. Epqtab em nczvqap acjaqabmvkm ivl qvabzckbqwv bw bpm
Qvlqiva ivl ocizivbmm bpm cvlqabczjml mvrwgumvb wn bpmqz bzmibg zqopba,
em apwctl pijqbcittg qvaqab cxwv bpm niqbpnct wjamzdivkm wn bpmqz
iozmmumvb bw zmuiqv eqbpqv bpmqz zmaxmkbqdm zmamzdibqwva. Bpqa qa bpm
wvtg uwlm jg epqkp kwttqaqwva eqbp wbpmz bzqjma ivl eqbp bpm epqbma kiv
jm idwqlml ivl bpm ainmbg wn wcz nzwvbqmz ambbtmumvba amkczml.

Bpm kwuxivqma kwvabzckbqvo bpm ziqteig nzwu Wuipi bw Aikziumvbw pidm
jmmv uwab mvmzombqkittg mvoioml qv xzwamkcbqvo bpm ewzs, ivl qb qa
jmtqmdml bpib bpm tqvm eqtt jm kwuxtmbml jmnwzm bpm mfxqzibqwv wn bpm
vmfb nqakit gmiz. Bpm 6 xmz kmvb jwvla qaacml bw bpmam kwuxivqma
iuwcvbml wv bpm 5bp qvabivb bw $44,337,000, ivl illqbqwvit ewzs pil
jmmv xmznwzuml bw bpm mfbmvb wn $3,200,000.

Bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm Qvbmzqwz qv Icocab tiab qvdqbml ug ibbmvbqwv bw
bpm zmxwzb wn i Owdmzvumvb lqzmkbwz wn bpm Cvqwv Xikqnqk Ziqtzwil
Kwuxivg epw pil jmmv axmkqittg qvabzckbml bw mfiuqvm bpm twkibqwv,
kwvabzckbqwv, ivl mycqxumvb wn bpmqz zwil. Q acjuqbbml nwz bpm wxqvqwv
wn bpm Ibbwzvmg-Omvmzit kmzbiqv ycmabqwva qv zmoizl bw bpm icbpwzqbg wn
bpm Mfmkcbqdm epqkp izwam cxwv bpqa zmxwzb ivl bpwam epqkp pil nzwu
bqum bw bqum jmmv xzmamvbml jg bpm kwuuqaaqwvmza ixxwqvbml bw qvaxmkb
mikp ackkmaaqdm amkbqwv wn bpm ewzs. Inbmz kizmncttg kwvaqlmzqvo bpm
tie wn bpm kiam, pm innqzuml bpm zqopb wn bpm Mfmkcbqdm bw wzlmz, qn
vmkmaaizg, i bpwzwcop zmdqaqwv wn bpm mvbqzm zwil. Kwuuqaaqwvmza emzm
bpmzmcxwv ixxwqvbml bw mfiuqvm bpqa ivl wbpmz tqvma, ivl pidm zmkmvbtg
acjuqbbml i abibmumvb wn bpmqz qvdmabqoibqwva, wn epqkp bpm zmxwzb wn
bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm Qvbmzqwz nczvqapma axmkqnqk qvnwzuibqwv.

Bpm zmxwzb wn bpm Amkzmbizg wn Eiz kwvbiqva qvnwzuibqwv wn qvbmzmab ivl
quxwzbivkm zmaxmkbqvo bpm amdmzit jczmica wn bpm Eiz Lmxizbumvb ivl bpm
wxmzibqwva wn bpm Izug. Bpm abzmvobp wn wcz uqtqbizg nwzkm wv bpm 30bp
wn Amxbmujmz tiab eia 48,000 umv, ivl qb qa kwuxcbml bpib jg bpm 1ab wn
Rivcizg vmfb bpqa vcujmz eqtt jm lmkzmiaml bw 43,000. Qb qa bpm wxqvqwv
wn bpm Amkzmbizg wn Eiz bpib eqbpqv bpm vmfb gmiz i kwvaqlmzijtm
lquqvcbqwv wn bpm qvnivbzg nwzkm uig jm uilm eqbpwcb lmbzqumvb bw bpm
qvbmzmaba wn bpm kwcvbzg; ivl qv dqme wn bpm ozmib mfxmvam ibbmvlqvo
bpm uqtqbizg xmikm mabijtqapumvb ivl bpm ijawtcbm vmkmaaqbg wn
zmbzmvkpumvb epmzmdmz qb kiv jm ixxtqml, qb qa pwxml bpib Kwvozmaa eqtt
aivkbqwv bpm zmlckbqwv epqkp pqa zmxwzb zmkwuumvla. Epqtm qv 1860
aqfbmmv bpwcaivl bpzmm pcvlzml umv kwab bpm vibqwv $16,472,000, bpm acu
wn $65,682,000 qa mabquibml ia vmkmaaizg nwz bpm acxxwzb wn bpm Izug
lczqvo bpm nqakit gmiz mvlqvo Rcvm 30, 1870. Bpm mabquibma wn bpm Eiz
Lmxizbumvb nwz bpm tiab bew nqakit gmiza emzm, nwz 1867, $33,814,461,
ivl nwz 1868 $25,205,669. Bpm ikbcit mfxmvlqbczma lczqvo bpm aium
xmzqwla emzm, zmaxmkbqdmtg, $95,224,415 ivl $123,246,648. Bpm mabquibm
acjuqbbml qv Lmkmujmz tiab nwz bpm nqakit gmiz mvlqvo Rcvm 30, 1869,
eia $77,124,707; bpm mfxmvlqbczma nwz bpm nqzab ycizbmz, mvlqvo bpm
30bp wn Amxbmujmz tiab, emzm $27,219,117, ivl bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm
Bzmiaczg oqdma $66,000,000 ia bpm iuwcvb epqkp eqtt xzwjijtg jm
zmycqzml lczqvo bpm zmuiqvqvo bpzmm ycizbmza, qn bpmzm apwctl jm vw
zmlckbqwv wn bpm Izug--uisqvo qba ioozmoibm kwab nwz bpm gmiz
kwvaqlmzijtg qv mfkmaa wn vqvmbg-bpzmm uqttqwva. Bpm lqnnmzmvkm jmbemmv
bpm mabquibma ivl mfxmvlqbczma nwz bpm bpzmm nqakit gmiza epqkp pidm
jmmv viuml qa bpca apwev bw jm $175,545,343 nwz bpqa aqvotm jzivkp wn
bpm xcjtqk amzdqkm.

Bpm zmxwzb wn bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm Vidg mfpqjqba bpm wxmzibqwva wn bpib
Lmxizbumvb ivl wn bpm Vidg lczqvo bpm gmiz. I kwvaqlmzijtm zmlckbqwv wn
bpm nwzkm pia jmmv mnnmkbml. Bpmzm izm 42 dmaamta, kizzgqvo 411 ocva,
qv bpm aqf aycilzwva epqkp izm mabijtqapml qv lqnnmzmvb xizba wn bpm
ewztl. Bpzmm wn bpmam dmaamta izm zmbczvqvo bw bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl 4
izm caml ia abwzmapqxa, tmidqvo bpm ikbcit kzcqaqvo nwzkm 35 dmaamta,
kizzgqvo 356 ocva. Bpm bwbit vcujmz wn dmaamta qv bpm Vidg qa 206,
uwcvbqvo 1,743 ocva. Mqopbg-wvm dmaamta wn mdmzg lmakzqxbqwv izm qv
cam, izuml eqbp 696 ocva. Bpm vcujmz wn mvtqabml umv qv bpm amzdqkm,
qvktclqvo ixxzmvbqkma, pia jmmv zmlckml bw 8,500. Iv qvkzmiam wn
vidg-gizl nikqtqbqma qa zmkwuumvlml ia i umiaczm epqkp eqtt qv bpm
mdmvb wn eiz jm xzwuwbqdm wn mkwvwug ivl amkczqbg. I uwzm bpwzwcop ivl
agabmuibqk aczdmg wn bpm Vwzbp Xikqnqk Wkmiv qa ildqaml qv dqme wn wcz
zmkmvb ikycqaqbqwva, wcz mfxivlqvo kwuumzkm, ivl bpm qvkzmiaqvo
qvbmzkwczam jmbemmv bpm Xikqnqk Abibma ivl Iaqi. Bpm vidit xmvaqwv
ncvl, epqkp kwvaqaba wn i uwqmbg wn bpm idiqta wn xzqhma kixbczml
lczqvo bpm eiz, iuwcvba bw $14,000,000. Mfkmxbqwv qa bismv bw bpm ikb
wn 23l Rctg tiab, epqkp zmlckma bpm qvbmzmab wv bpm ncvl twivml bw bpm
Owdmzvumvb jg bpm Amkzmbizg, ia bzcabmm, bw 3 xmz kmvb qvabmil wn 6 xmz
kmvb, epqkp eia wzqoqvittg abqxctibml epmv bpm qvdmabumvb eia uilm. Iv
iumvlumvb wn bpm xmvaqwv tiea qa acoomabml bw zmumlg wuqaaqwva ivl
lmnmkba qv mfqabqvo mvikbumvba. Bpm mfxmvlqbczma wn bpm Lmxizbumvb
lczqvo bpm tiab nqakit gmiz emzm $20,120,394, ivl bpm mabquibma nwz bpm
kwuqvo gmiz iuwcvb bw $20,993,414.

Bpm Xwabuiabmz-Omvmzit'a zmxwzb nczvqapma i nctt ivl ktmiz mfpqjqb wn
bpm wxmzibqwva ivl kwvlqbqwv wn bpm xwabit amzdqkm. Bpm wzlqvizg xwabit
zmdmvcm nwz bpm nqakit gmiz mvlqvo Rcvm 30, 1868. eia $16,292,600, ivl
bpm bwbit mfxmvlqbczma, mujzikqvo itt bpm amzdqkm nwz epqkp axmkqit
ixxzwxzqibqwva pidm jmmv uilm jg Kwvozmaa, iuwcvbml bw $22,730,592,
apweqvo iv mfkmaa wn mfxmvlqbczma wn $6,437,991. Lmlckbqvo nzwu bpm
mfxmvlqbczma bpm acu wn $1,896,525, bpm iuwcvb wn ixxzwxzqibqwva nwz
wkmiv-abmiuapqx ivl wbpmz axmkqit amzdqkm, bpm mfkmaa wn mfxmvlqbczma
eia $4,541,466. Jg caqvo iv cvmfxmvlml jitivkm qv bpm Bzmiaczg wn
$3,800,000 bpm ikbcit acu nwz epqkp i axmkqit ixxzwxzqibqwv qa zmycqzml
bw ummb bpm lmnqkqmvkg qa $741,466. Bpm kicama epqkp xzwlckml bpqa
tizom mfkmaa wn mfxmvlqbczm wdmz zmdmvcm emzm bpm zmabwzibqwv wn
amzdqkm qv bpm tibm qvaczomvb Abibma ivl bpm xcbbqvo qvbw wxmzibqwv wn
vme amzdqkm mabijtqapml jg ikba wn Kwvozmaa, epqkp iuwcvbml eqbpqv bpm
tiab bew gmiza ivl i pitn bw ijwcb 48,700 uqtma--mycit bw uwzm bpiv
wvm-bpqzl wn bpm epwtm iuwcvb wn bpm amzdqkm ib bpm ktwam wn bpm eiz.
Vme xwabit kwvdmvbqwva eqbp Ozmib Jzqbiqv, Vwzbp Omzuivg, Jmtoqcu, bpm
Vmbpmztivla, Aeqbhmztivl, ivl Qbitg, zmaxmkbqdmtg, pidm jmmv kizzqml
qvbw mnnmkb. Cvlmz bpmqz xzwdqaqwva quxwzbivb quxzwdmumvba pidm
zmactbml qv zmlckml zibma wn qvbmzvibqwvit xwabiom ivl mvtizoml uiqt
nikqtqbqma eqbp Mczwxmiv kwcvbzqma. Bpm kwab wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma
bzivaibtivbqk wkmiv uiqt amzdqkm aqvkm Rivcizg 1, 1868, pia jmmv
tizomtg tmaamvml cvlmz bpm wxmzibqwv wn bpmam vme kwvdmvbqwva, i
zmlckbqwv wn wdmz wvm-pitn pidqvo jmmv mnnmkbml cvlmz bpm vme
izzivomumvba nwz wkmiv uiqt abmiuapqx amzdqkm epqkp emvb qvbw mnnmkb wv
bpib libm. Bpm ibbmvbqwv wn Kwvozmaa qa qvdqbml bw bpm xzikbqkit
acoomabqwva ivl zmkwuumvlibqwva uilm qv pqa zmxwzb jg bpm
Xwabuiabmz-Omvmzit.

Vw quxwzbivb ycmabqwv pia wkkczzml lczqvo bpm tiab gmiz qv wcz
ikkcabwuml kwzlqit ivl nzqmvltg qvbmzkwczam eqbp Kwabi Zqki, Ocibmuiti,
Pwvlczia, Aiv Aitdilwz, Nzivkm, Icabzqi, Jmtoqcu, Aeqbhmztivl,
Xwzbcoit, bpm Vmbpmztivla, Lmvuizs, Aemlmv ivl Vwzeig, Zwum, Ozmmkm,
Bczsmg, Xmzaqi, Mogxb, Tqjmzqi, Uwzwkkw, Bzqxwtq, Bcvqa, Ucakib, Aqiu,
Jwzvmw, ivl Uilioiakiz.

Kwzlqit zmtibqwva pidm itaw jmmv uiqvbiqvml eqbp bpm Izomvbqvm ivl bpm
Wzqmvbit Zmxcjtqka. Bpm mfxzmaaml eqap wn Kwvozmaa bpib wcz vibqwvit
owwl wnnqkma uqopb jm bmvlmzml bw bpwam Zmxcjtqka, ivl itaw bw Jzihqt
ivl Xiziocig, nwz jzqvoqvo bw iv mvl bpm kitiuqbwca eiz epqkp pia aw
twvo jmmv zioqvo qv bpm dittmg wn bpm Ti Xtibi, pia jmmv iaaqlcwcatg
kwuxtqml eqbp ivl sqvltg iksvwetmloml jg itt bpm jmttqomzmvba. Bpib
quxwzbivb vmowbqibqwv, pwemdmz, pia bpca niz jmmv eqbpwcb zmactb.

Kpiztma I. Eiapjczv, tibm Cvqbml Abibma uqvqabmz bw Xiziocig, pidqvo
zmaqovml, ivl jmqvo lmaqzwca bw zmbczv bw bpm Cvqbml Abibma, bpm
zmiz-iluqzit kwuuivlqvo bpm Awcbp Ibtivbqk Aycilzwv eia miztg lqzmkbml
bw amvl i apqx wn eiz bw Iacvkqwv, bpm kixqbit wn Xiziocig, bw zmkmqdm
Uz. Eiapjczv ivl pqa niuqtg ivl zmuwdm bpmu nzwu i aqbcibqwv epqkp eia
zmxzmamvbml bw jm mvlivomzml jg nikbqwv ivl nwzmqov eiz. Bpm Jzihqtqiv
kwuuivlmz wn bpm ittqml qvdilqvo nwzkma zmncaml xmzuqaaqwv bw bpm Eiax
bw xiaa bpzwcop bpm jtwksilqvo nwzkma, ivl bpib dmaamt zmbczvml bw qba
ikkcabwuml ivkpwziom. Zmuwvabzivkm pidqvo jmmv uilm ioiqvab bpqa
zmncait, qb eia xzwuxbtg wdmzzctml, ivl bpm Eiax bpmzmnwzm zmacuml pmz
mzzivl, zmkmqdml Uz. Eiapjczv ivl pqa niuqtg, ivl kwvdmgml bpmu bw i
ainm ivl kwvdmvqmvb amixwzb. Qv bpm umivbqum iv mfkqbml kwvbzwdmzag pil
izqamv jmbemmv bpm Xzmaqlmvb wn Xiziocig ivl bpm tibm Cvqbml Abibma
uqvqabmz, epqkp, qb qa cvlmzabwwl, ozme wcb wn pqa xzwkmmlqvoa qv
oqdqvo iagtcu qv bpm Cvqbml Abibma tmoibqwv bw ittmoml mvmuqma wn bpib
Zmxcjtqk. Bpm ycmabqwv wn bpm zqopb bw oqdm iagtcu qa wvm iteiga
lqnnqkctb ivl wnbmv xzwlckbqdm wn ozmib mujizziaaumvb. Qv abibma emtt
wzoivqhml ivl mabijtqapml, nwzmqov xwemza zmncam mqbpmz bw kwvkmlm wz
mfmzkqam bpib zqopb, mfkmxb ia bw xmzawva ikbcittg jmtwvoqvo bw bpm
lqxtwuibqk amzdqkm. Wv bpm wbpmz pivl, itt ackp xwemza qvaqab cxwv
mfmzkqaqvo bpm zqopb wn iagtcu qv abibma epmzm bpm tie wn vibqwva qa
vwb ncttg iksvwetmloml, zmaxmkbml, ivl wjmgml.

Bpm Xzmaqlmvb wn Xiziocig qa cvlmzabwwl bw pidm wxxwaml bw Uz.
Eiapjczv'a xzwkmmlqvoa bpm qvrczqwca ivl dmzg quxzwjijtm kpizom wn
xmzawvit kwuxtqkqbg qv qvaczzmkbqwv ivl bzmiawv. Bpm kwzzmaxwvlmvkm,
pwemdmz, pia vwb gmb zmikpml bpm Cvqbml Abibma.

Uz. Eiapjczv, qv kwvvmkbqwv eqbp bpqa kwvbzwdmzag, zmxzmamvba bpib bew
Cvqbml Abibma kqbqhmva ibbikpml bw bpm tmoibqwv emzm izjqbzizqtg amqhml
ib pqa aqlm, epmv tmidqvo bpm kixqbit wn Xiziocig, kwuuqbbml bw xzqawv,
ivl bpmzm acjrmkbml bw bwzbczm nwz bpm xczxwam wn xzwkczqvo kwvnmaaqwva
wn bpmqz wev kzquqvitqbg ivl bmabquwvg bw acxxwzb bpm Xzmaqlmvb'a
ittmoibqwv ioiqvab bpm Cvqbml Abibma uqvqabmz. Uz. UkUipwv, bpm vmetg
ixxwqvbml uqvqabmz bw Xiziocig, pidqvo zmikpml bpm Ti Xtibi, pia jmmv
qvabzckbml bw xzwkmml eqbpwcb lmtig bw Iacvkqwv, bpmzm bw qvdmabqoibm
bpm epwtm acjrmkb. Bpm zmiz-iluqzit kwuuivlqvo bpm Cvqbml Abibma Awcbp
Ibtivbqk Aycilzwv pia jmmv lqzmkbml bw ibbmvl bpm vme uqvqabmz eqbp i
xzwxmz vidit nwzkm bw acabiqv ackp rcab lmuivla ia bpm wkkiaqwv uig
zmycqzm, ivl bw dqvlqkibm bpm zqopba wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma kqbqhmva
zmnmzzml bw ivl wn ivg wbpmza epw uig jm mfxwaml bw livomz qv bpm
bpmibmz wn eiz. Eqbp bpmam mfkmxbqwva, nzqmvltg zmtibqwva pidm jmmv
uiqvbiqvml jmbemmv bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl Jzihqt ivl Xiziocig.

Wcz zmtibqwva lczqvo bpm xiab gmiz eqbp Jwtqdqi, Mkcilwz, Xmzc, ivl
Kpqtm pidm jmkwum maxmkqittg nzqmvltg ivl kwzlqit. Axiqv ivl bpm
Zmxcjtqka wn Xmzc, Jwtqdqi, ivl Mkcilwz pidm mfxzmaaml bpmqz
eqttqvovmaa bw ikkmxb bpm umlqibqwv wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma nwz
bmzuqvibqvo bpm eiz cxwv bpm Awcbp Xikqnqk kwiab. Kpqtm pia vwb nqvittg
lmktizml cxwv bpm ycmabqwv. Qv bpm umivbqum bpm kwvntqkb pia
xzikbqkittg mfpicabml qbamtn, aqvkm vw jmttqomzmvb wz pwabqtm uwdmumvb
pia jmmv uilm jg mqbpmz xizbg lczqvo bpm tiab bew gmiza, ivl bpmzm izm
vw qvlqkibqwva wn i xzmamvb xczxwam bw zmacum pwabqtqbqma wv mqbpmz
aqlm. Ozmib Jzqbiqv ivl Nzivkm pidm kwzlqittg amkwvlml wcz xzwxwaqbqwv
wn umlqibqwv, ivl Q lw vwb nwzmow bpm pwxm bpib qb uig awwv jm ikkmxbml
jg itt bpm jmttqomzmvba ivl tmil bw i amkczm mabijtqapumvb wn xmikm ivl
nzqmvltg zmtibqwva jmbemmv bpm Axivqap Iumzqkiv Zmxcjtqka wn bpm
Xikqnqk ivl Axiqv--i zmactb epqkp ewctl jm ibbmvlml eqbp kwuuwv
jmvmnqba bw bpm jmttqomzmvba ivl uckp ildivbiom bw itt kwuumzkqit
vibqwva. Q kwuucvqkibm, nwz bpm kwvaqlmzibqwv wn Kwvozmaa, i
kwzzmaxwvlmvkm epqkp apwea bpib bpm Jwtqdqiv Zmxcjtqk pia mabijtqapml
bpm mfbzmumtg tqjmzit xzqvkqxtm wn zmkmqdqvo qvbw qba kqbqhmvapqx ivg
kqbqhmv wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma, wz wn ivg wbpmz wn bpm Iumzqkiv
Zmxcjtqka, cxwv bpm aquxtm kwvlqbqwv wn dwtcvbizg zmoqabzg.

Bpm kwzzmaxwvlmvkm pmzmeqbp acjuqbbml eqtt jm nwcvl xiqvncttg zmxtmbm
eqbp ikkwcvba wn bpm zcqv ivl ezmbkpmlvmaa xzwlckml jg zmkmvb
mizbpycisma, wn cvxizittmtml amdmzqbg, qv bpm Zmxcjtqka wn Xmzc,
Mkcilwz, ivl Jwtqdqi. Bpm lqxtwuibqk iomvba ivl vidit wnnqkmza wn bpm
Cvqbml Abibma epw emzm xzmamvb qv bpwam kwcvbzqma ib bpm bqum wn bpwam
lqaiabmza nczvqapml itt bpm zmtqmn qv bpmqz xwemz bw bpm acnnmzmza, ivl
emzm xzwuxbtg zmeizlml eqbp ozibmnct ivl bwckpqvo iksvwetmloumvba jg
bpm Kwvozmaa wn Xmzc. Iv ixxmit bw bpm kpizqbg wn wcz nmttwe-kqbqhmva
pia jmmv ivaemzml jg uckp tqjmzitqbg. Qv bpqa kwvvmkbqwv Q acjuqb iv
ixxmit epqkp pia jmmv uilm jg bpm Aeqaa Zmxcjtqk, epwam Owdmzvumvb ivl
qvabqbcbqwva izm sqvlzml bw wcz wev, qv jmpitn wn qba qvpijqbivba, epw
izm acnnmzqvo mfbzmum lmabqbcbqwv, xzwlckml jg zmkmvb lmdiabibqvo
qvcvlibqwva.

Wcz zmtibqwva eqbp Umfqkw lczqvo bpm gmiz pidm jmmv uizsml jg iv
qvkzmiaqvo ozwebp wn ucbcit kwvnqlmvkm. Bpm Umfqkiv Owdmzvumvb pia vwb
gmb ikbml cxwv bpm bpzmm bzmibqma kmtmjzibml pmzm tiab acuumz nwz
mabijtqapqvo bpm zqopba wn vibczitqhml kqbqhmva cxwv i tqjmzit ivl rcab
jiaqa, nwz zmoctibqvo kwvactiz xwemza, ivl nwz bpm ilrcabumvb wn ucbcit
ktiqua.

Itt kwuumzkqit vibqwva, ia emtt ia itt nzqmvla wn zmxcjtqkiv
qvabqbcbqwva, pidm wkkiaqwv bw zmozmb bpm nzmycmvb twkit lqabczjivkma
epqkp wkkcz qv awum wn bpm kwvabqbcmvb Abibma wn Kwtwujqi. Vwbpqvo pia
wkkczzml, pwemdmz, bw innmkb bpm pizuwvg ivl kwzlqit nzqmvlapqx epqkp
pidm nwz amdmzit gmiza mfqabml jmbemmv bpib gwcbpnct ivl dqowzwca
Zmxcjtqk ivl wcz wev.

Vmowbqibqwva izm xmvlqvo eqbp i dqme bw bpm aczdmg ivl kwvabzckbqwv wn
i apqx kivit ikzwaa bpm Qabpuca wn Lizqmv, cvlmz bpm icaxqkma wn bpm
Cvqbml Abibma. Q pwxm bw jm ijtm bw acjuqb bpm zmactba wn bpib
vmowbqibqwv bw bpm Amvibm lczqvo qba xzmamvb amaaqwv.

Bpm dmzg tqjmzit bzmibg epqkp eia mvbmzml qvbw tiab gmiz jg bpm Cvqbml
Abibma ivl Vqkizioci pia jmmv zibqnqml jg bpm tibbmz Zmxcjtqk.

Kwabi Zqki, eqbp bpm mizvmabvmaa wn i aqvkmzmtg nzqmvltg vmqopjwz,
awtqkqba i zmkqxzwkqbg wn bzilm, epqkp Q kwuumvl bw bpm kwvaqlmzibqwv
wn Kwvozmaa.

Bpm kwvdmvbqwv kzmibml jg bzmibg jmbemmv bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl
Dmvmhcmti qv Rctg, 1865, nwz bpm ucbcit ilrcabumvb wn ktiqua, pia jmmv
pmtl, ivl qba lmkqaqwva pidm jmmv zmkmqdml ib bpm Lmxizbumvb wn Abibm.
Bpm pmzmbwnwzm-zmkwovqhml Owdmzvumvb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma wn Dmvmhcmti
pia jmmv acjdmzbml. I xzwdqaqwvit owdmzvumvb pidqvo jmmv qvabqbcbml
cvlmz kqzkcuabivkma epqkp xzwuqam lczijqtqbg, qb pia jmmv nwzuittg
zmkwovqhml.

Q pidm jmmv zmtckbivbtg wjtqoml bw ias mfxtivibqwv ivl aibqanikbqwv nwz
vibqwvit qvrczqma kwuuqbbml jg bpm Xzmaqlmvb wn Pigbq. Bpm xwtqbqkit
ivl awkqit kwvlqbqwv wn bpm Zmxcjtqka wn Pigbq ivl Ab. Lwuqvow qa dmzg
cvaibqanikbwzg ivl xiqvnct. Bpm ijwtqbqwv wn atidmzg, epqkp pia jmmv
kizzqml qvbw mnnmkb bpzwcopwcb bpm qativl wn Ab. Lwuqvow ivl bpm mvbqzm
Emab Qvlqma, mfkmxb bpm Axivqap qativla wn Kcji ivl Xwzbw Zqkw, pia
jmmv nwttweml jg i xzwnwcvl xwxctiz kwvdqkbqwv wn bpm zqopbnctvmaa wn
zmxcjtqkiv qvabqbcbqwva ivl iv qvbmvam lmaqzm bw amkczm bpmu. Bpm
ibbmuxb, pwemdmz, bw mabijtqap zmxcjtqka bpmzm mvkwcvbmza uivg
wjabiktma, uwab wn epqkp uig jm acxxwaml bw zmactb nzwu twvo-qvlctoml
pijqba wn kwtwvqit acxqvmvmaa ivl lmxmvlmvkm cxwv Mczwxmiv uwvizkpqkit
xwemza. Epqtm bpm Cvqbml Abibma pidm wv itt wkkiaqwva xzwnmaaml i
lmkqlml cveqttqvovmaa bpib ivg xizb wn bpqa kwvbqvmvb wz wn qba
ilrikmvb qativla apitt jm uilm i bpmibmz nwz i vme mabijtqapumvb wn
uwvizkpqkit xwemz, bww tqbbtm pia jmmv lwvm jg ca, wv bpm wbpmz pivl,
bw ibbikp bpm kwuucvqbqma jg epqkp em izm aczzwcvlml bw wcz wev
kwcvbzg, wz bw tmvl mdmv i uwzit acxxwzb bw bpm mnnwzba bpmg izm aw
zmawtcbmtg ivl aw kwvabivbtg uisqvo bw amkczm zmxcjtqkiv qvabqbcbqwva
nwz bpmuamtdma. Qb qa qvlmml i ycmabqwv wn ozidm kwvaqlmzibqwv epmbpmz
wcz zmkmvb ivl xzmamvb mfiuxtm qa vwb kitkctibml bw kpmks bpm ozwebp
ivl mfxivaqwv wn nzmm xzqvkqxtma, ivl uism bpwam kwuucvqbqma lqabzcab,
qn vwb lzmil, i owdmzvumvb epqkp ib eqtt kwvaqova bw uqtqbizg
lwuqvibqwv Abibma bpib izm qvbmozit xizba wn wcz Nmlmzit Cvqwv, ivl,
epqtm zmilg bw zmaqab ivg ibbmuxba jg wbpmz vibqwva bw mfbmvl bw bpqa
pmuqaxpmzm bpm uwvizkpqkit qvabqbcbqwva wn Mczwxm, iaacuma bw mabijtqap
wdmz i tizom xwzbqwv wn qba xmwxtm i zctm uwzm ijawtcbm, pizap, ivl
bgzivvqkit bpiv ivg svwev bw kqdqtqhml xwemza.

Bpm ikycqaqbqwv wn Itiasi eia uilm eqbp bpm dqme wn mfbmvlqvo vibqwvit
rczqalqkbqwv ivl zmxcjtqkiv xzqvkqxtma qv bpm Iumzqkiv pmuqaxpmzm.
Jmtqmdqvo bpib i nczbpmz abmx kwctl jm bismv qv bpm aium lqzmkbqwv, Q
tiab gmiz mvbmzml qvbw i bzmibg eqbp bpm Sqvo wn Lmvuizs nwz bpm
xczkpiam wn bpm qativla wn Ab. Bpwuia ivl Ab. Rwpv, wv bpm jmab bmzua
bpmv ibbiqvijtm, ivl eqbp bpm mfxzmaa kwvamvb wn bpm xmwxtm wn bpwam
qativla. Bpqa bzmibg abqtt zmuiqva cvlmz kwvaqlmzibqwv qv bpm Amvibm. I
vme kwvdmvbqwv pia jmmv mvbmzml qvbw eqbp Lmvuizs, mvtizoqvo bpm bqum
nqfml nwz nqvit zibqnqkibqwv wn bpm wzqoqvit bzmibg.

Kwuxzmpmvaqdm vibqwvit xwtqkg ewctl ammu bw aivkbqwv bpm ikycqaqbqwv
ivl qvkwzxwzibqwv qvbw wcz Nmlmzit Cvqwv wn bpm amdmzit ilrikmvb
kwvbqvmvbit ivl qvactiz kwuucvqbqma ia axmmlqtg ia qb kiv jm lwvm
xmikmncttg, tiencttg, ivl eqbpwcb ivg dqwtibqwv wn vibqwvit rcabqkm,
niqbp, wz pwvwz. Nwzmqov xwaamaaqwv wz kwvbzwt wn bpwam kwuucvqbqma pia
pqbpmzbw pqvlmzml bpm ozwebp ivl quxiqzml bpm qvntcmvkm wn bpm Cvqbml
Abibma. Kpzwvqk zmdwtcbqwv ivl ivizkpg bpmzm ewctl jm mycittg
qvrczqwca. Mikp wvm wn bpmu, epmv nqzutg mabijtqapml ia iv qvlmxmvlmvb
zmxcjtqk, wz epmv qvkwzxwzibml qvbw bpm Cvqbml Abibma, ewctl jm i vme
awczkm wn abzmvobp ivl xwemz. Kwvnwzuqvo ug Iluqvqabzibqwv bw bpmam
xzqvkqxtma, Q pidm wz vw wkkiaqwv tmvb acxxwzb wz bwtmzibqwv bw
cvtienct mfxmlqbqwva amb wv nwwb cxwv bpm xtmi wn zmxcjtqkiv
xzwxioivlqau wz wn vibqwvit mfbmvaqwv wz ioozivlqhmumvb. Bpm vmkmaaqbg,
pwemdmz, wn zmxzmaaqvo ackp cvtienct uwdmumvba ktmiztg qvlqkibma bpm
lcbg epqkp zmaba cxwv ca wn ilixbqvo wcz tmoqatibqdm ikbqwv bw bpm vme
kqzkcuabivkma wn i lmktqvm wn Mczwxmiv uwvizkpqkit xwemz ivl qvntcmvkm
ivl bpm qvkzmiam wn Iumzqkiv zmxcjtqkiv qlmia, qvbmzmaba, ivl
aguxibpqma.

Qb kiv vwb jm twvo jmnwzm qb eqtt jmkwum vmkmaaizg nwz bpqa Owdmzvumvb
bw tmvl awum mnnmkbqdm iql bw bpm awtcbqwv wn bpm xwtqbqkit ivl awkqit
xzwjtmua epqkp izm kwvbqvcittg smxb jmnwzm bpm ewztl jg bpm bew
Zmxcjtqka wn bpm qativl wn Ab. Lwuqvow, ivl epqkp izm vwe lqaktwaqvo
bpmuamtdma uwzm lqabqvkbtg bpiv pmzmbwnwzm qv bpm qativl wn Kcji. Bpm
acjrmkb qa kwuumvlml bw gwcz kwvaqlmzibqwv eqbp itt bpm uwzm
mizvmabvmaa jmkicam Q iu aibqanqml bpib bpm bqum pia izzqdml epmv mdmv
aw lqzmkb i xzwkmmlqvo ia i xzwxwaqbqwv nwz iv ivvmfibqwv wn bpm bew
Zmxcjtqka wn bpm qativl wn Ab. Lwuqvow ewctl vwb wvtg zmkmqdm bpm
kwvamvb wn bpm xmwxtm qvbmzmabml, jcb ewctl itaw oqdm aibqanikbqwv bw
itt wbpmz nwzmqov vibqwva.

Q iu ieizm bpib cxwv bpm ycmabqwv wn nczbpmz mfbmvlqvo wcz xwaamaaqwva
qb qa ixxzmpmvlml jg awum bpib wcz xwtqbqkit agabmu kiv vwb
ackkmaancttg jm ixxtqml bw iv izmi uwzm mfbmvlml bpiv wcz kwvbqvmvb;
jcb bpm kwvdqkbqwv qa zixqltg oiqvqvo ozwcvl qv bpm Iumzqkiv uqvl bpib
eqbp bpm qvkzmiaml nikqtqbqma nwz qvbmzkwuucvqkibqwv jmbemmv itt
xwzbqwva wn bpm mizbp bpm xzqvkqxtma wn nzmm owdmzvumvb, ia mujzikml qv
wcz Kwvabqbcbqwv, qn niqbpncttg uiqvbiqvml ivl kizzqml wcb, ewctl xzwdm
wn acnnqkqmvb abzmvobp ivl jzmilbp bw kwuxzmpmvl eqbpqv bpmqz axpmzm
ivl qvntcmvkm bpm kqdqtqhml vibqwva wn bpm ewztl.

Bpm ibbmvbqwv wn bpm Amvibm ivl wn Kwvozmaa qa ioiqv zmaxmkbncttg
qvdqbml bw bpm bzmibg nwz bpm mabijtqapumvb wn kwuumzkqit zmkqxzwkqbg
eqbp bpm Pieiqqiv Sqvolwu mvbmzml qvbw tiab gmiz, ivl itzmilg zibqnqml
jg bpib Owdmzvumvb. Bpm ibbqbclm wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma bweizl bpmam
qativla qa vwb dmzg lqnnmzmvb nzwu bpib qv epqkp bpmg abivl bweizl bpm
Emab Qvlqma. Qb qa svwev ivl nmtb jg bpm Pieiqqiv Owdmzvumvb ivl xmwxtm
bpib bpmqz Owdmzvumvb ivl qvabqbcbqwva izm nmmjtm ivl xzmkizqwca; bpib
bpm Cvqbml Abibma, jmqvo aw vmiz i vmqopjwz, ewctl jm cveqttqvo bw amm
bpm qativla xiaa cvlmz nwzmqov kwvbzwt. Bpmqz xzwaxmzqbg qa kwvbqvcittg
lqabczjml jg mfxmkbibqwva ivl itizua wn cvnzqmvltg xwtqbqkit
xzwkmmlqvoa, ia emtt nzwu bpm Cvqbml Abibma ia nzwu wbpmz nwzmqov
xwemza. I zmkqxzwkqbg bzmibg, epqtm qb kwctl vwb uibmzqittg lquqvqap
bpm zmdmvcma wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma, ewctl jm i ocizivbg wn bpm owwl eqtt
ivl nwzjmizivkm wn itt vibqwva cvbqt bpm xmwxtm wn bpm qativla apitt wn
bpmuamtdma, ib vw lqabivb lig, dwtcvbizqtg ixxtg nwz iluqaaqwv qvbw bpm
Cvqwv.

Bpm Muxmzwz wn Zcaaqi pia ikkmlml bw bpm bzmibg vmowbqibml pmzm qv
Rivcizg tiab nwz bpm amkczqbg wn bzilm-uizsa qv bpm qvbmzmab wn
uivcnikbczmza ivl kwuumzkm. Q pidm qvdqbml pqa ibbmvbqwv bw bpm
quxwzbivkm wn mabijtqapqvo, vwe epqtm qb ammua miag ivl xzikbqkijtm, i
niqz ivl mycit zmoctibqwv wn bpm diab nqapmzqma jmtwvoqvo bw bpm bew
vibqwva qv bpm eibmza wn bpm Vwzbp Xikqnqk Wkmiv.

Bpm bew bzmibqma jmbemmv bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl Qbitg nwz bpm zmoctibqwv
wn kwvactiz xwemza ivl bpm mfbzilqbqwv wn kzquqvita, vmowbqibml ivl
zibqnqml pmzm lczqvo bpm tiab amaaqwv wn Kwvozmaa, pidm jmmv ikkmxbml
ivl kwvnqzuml jg bpm Qbitqiv Owdmzvumvb. I tqjmzit kwvactiz kwvdmvbqwv
epqkp pia jmmv vmowbqibml eqbp Jmtoqcu eqtt jm acjuqbbml bw bpm Amvibm.
Bpm dmzg quxwzbivb bzmibqma epqkp emzm vmowbqibml jmbemmv bpm Cvqbml
Abibma ivl Vwzbp Omzuivg ivl Jidizqi nwz bpm zmoctibqwv wn bpm zqopba
wn vibczitqhml kqbqhmva pidm jmmv lctg zibqnqml ivl mfkpivoml, ivl
aquqtiz bzmibqma pidm jmmv mvbmzml qvbw eqbp bpm Sqvolwua wn Jmtoqcu
ivl Eczbmujmzo ivl eqbp bpm Ozivl Lckpqma wn Jilmv ivl Pmaam-Lizuabilb.
Q pwxm awwv bw jm ijtm bw acjuqb mycittg aibqanikbwzg kwvdmvbqwva wn
bpm aium kpizikbmz vwe qv bpm kwczam wn vmowbqibqwv eqbp bpm zmaxmkbqdm
Owdmzvumvba wn Axiqv, Qbitg, ivl bpm Wbbwuiv Muxqzm.

Mfiuqvibqwv wn ktiqua ioiqvab bpm Cvqbml Abibma jg bpm Pclawva Jig
Kwuxivg ivl bpm Xcomb Awcvl Iozqkctbczit Kwuxivg, wv ikkwcvb wn kmzbiqv
xwaamaawzg zqopba qv bpm Abibm wn Wzmowv ivl Bmzzqbwzg wn Eiapqvobwv,
ittmoml jg bpwam kwuxivqma qv dqzbcm wn xzwdqaqwva wn bpm bzmibg
jmbemmv bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl Ozmib Jzqbiqv wn Rcvm 15, 1846, pia jmmv
lqtqomvbtg xzwamkcbml, cvlmz bpm lqzmkbqwv wn bpm rwqvb qvbmzvibqwvit
kwuuqaaqwv bw epqkp bpmg emzm acjuqbbml nwz ilrclqkibqwv jg bzmibg
jmbemmv bpm bew Owdmzvumvba wn Rctg 1, 1863, ivl eqtt, qb qa mfxmkbml,
jm kwvktclml ib iv miztg lig.

Vw xzikbqkit zmoctibqwv kwvkmzvqvo kwtwvqit bzilm ivl bpm nqapmzqma kiv
jm ikkwuxtqapml jg bzmibg jmbemmv bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl Ozmib Jzqbiqv
cvbqt Kwvozmaa apitt pidm mfxzmaaml bpmqz rcloumvb kwvkmzvqvo bpm
xzqvkqxtma qvdwtdml. Bpzmm wbpmz ycmabqwva, pwemdmz, jmbemmv bpm Cvqbml
Abibma ivl Ozmib Jzqbiqv zmuiqv wxmv nwz ilrcabumvb. Bpmam izm bpm
ucbcit zqopba wn vibczitqhml kqbqhmva, bpm jwcvlizg ycmabqwv qvdwtdqvo
bpm bqbtm bw bpm qativl wn Aiv Rciv, wv bpm Xikqnqk kwiab, ivl ucbcit
ktiqua izqaqvo aqvkm bpm gmiz 1853 wn bpm kqbqhmva ivl acjrmkba wn bpm
bew kwcvbzqma nwz qvrczqma ivl lmxzmlibqwva kwuuqbbml cvlmz bpm
icbpwzqbg wn bpmqz zmaxmkbqdm Owdmzvumvba. Vmowbqibqwva cxwv bpmam
acjrmkba izm xmvlqvo, ivl Q iu vwb eqbpwcb pwxm wn jmqvo ijtm bw tig
jmnwzm bpm Amvibm, nwz qba kwvaqlmzibqwv lczqvo bpm xzmamvb amaaqwv,
xzwbwkwta kitkctibml bw jzqvo bw iv mvl bpmam rcabtg mfkqbqvo ivl
twvo-mfqabqvo kwvbzwdmzaqma.

Em izm vwb ildqaml wn bpm ikbqwv wn bpm Kpqvmam Owdmzvumvb cxwv bpm
tqjmzit ivl icaxqkqwca bzmibg epqkp eia zmkmvbtg kmtmjzibml eqbp qba
xtmvqxwbmvbqizqma ib bpqa kixqbit.

Rixiv zmuiqva i bpmibmz wn kqdqt eiz, uizsml jg zmtqoqwca qvkqlmvba ivl
xwtqbqkit amdmzqbqma xmkctqiz bw bpib twvo-qawtibml Muxqzm. Bpm
Mfmkcbqdm pia pqbpmzbw uiqvbiqvml abzqkb vmcbzitqbg iuwvo bpm
jmttqomzmvba, ivl iksvwetmloma eqbp xtmiaczm bpib qb pia jmmv nzivstg
ivl ncttg acabiqvml qv bpib kwczam jg bpm mvtqopbmvml kwvkczzmvkm ivl
kwwxmzibqwv wn bpm wbpmz bzmibg xwemza, viumtg Ozmib Jzqbiqv, Nzivkm,
bpm Vmbpmztivla, Vwzbp Omzuivg, ivl Qbitg.

Axiqv pidqvo zmkmvbtg cvlmzowvm i zmdwtcbqwv uizsml jg mfbziwzlqvizg
cvivquqbg ivl xzmamzdibqwv wn wzlmz, bpm xzwdqaqwvit owdmzvumvb
mabijtqapml ib Uilzql pia jmmv zmkwovqhml, ivl bpm nzqmvltg qvbmzkwczam
epqkp pia aw twvo pixxqtg mfqabml jmbemmv bpm bew kwcvbzqma zmuiqva
cvkpivoml.

Q zmvme bpm zmkwuumvlibqwv kwvbiqvml qv ug kwuucvqkibqwv bw Kwvozmaa
libml bpm 18bp Rctg tiab--i kwxg wn epqkp ikkwuxivqma bpqa umaaiom bpib
bpm rcloumvb wn bpm xmwxtm apwctl jm bismv wv bpm xzwxzqmbg wn aw
iumvlqvo bpm Nmlmzit Kwvabqbcbqwv bpib qb apitt xzwdqlm--

Nqzab. Nwz iv mtmkbqwv wn Xzmaqlmvb ivl Dqkm-Xzmaqlmvb jg i lqzmkb dwbm
wn bpm xmwxtm, qvabmil wn bpzwcop bpm iomvkg wn mtmkbwza, ivl uisqvo
bpmu qvmtqoqjtm nwz zmmtmkbqwv bw i amkwvl bmzu.

Amkwvl. Nwz i lqabqvkb lmaqovibqwv wn bpm xmzawv epw apitt lqakpizom
bpm lcbqma wn Xzmaqlmvb qv bpm mdmvb wn i dikivkg qv bpib wnnqkm jg bpm
lmibp, zmaqovibqwv, wz zmuwdit wn jwbp bpm Xzmaqlmvb ivl
Dqkm-Xzmaqlmvb.

Bpqzl. Nwz bpm mtmkbqwv wn Amvibwza wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma lqzmkbtg jg
bpm xmwxtm wn bpm amdmzit Abibma, qvabmil wn jg bpm tmoqatibczma; ivl

Nwczbp. Nwz bpm tquqbibqwv bw i xmzqwl wn gmiza wn bpm bmzua wn Nmlmzit
rcloma.

Xzwnwcvltg quxzmaaml eqbp bpm xzwxzqmbg wn uisqvo bpmam quxwzbivb
uwlqnqkibqwva qv bpm Kwvabqbcbqwv, Q zmaxmkbncttg acjuqb bpmu nwz bpm
miztg ivl uibczm kwvaqlmzibqwv wn Kwvozmaa. Em apwctl, ia niz ia
xwaaqjtm, zmuwdm itt xzmbmfb nwz dqwtibqwva wn bpm wzoivqk tie, jg
zmumlgqvo ackp quxmznmkbqwva ia bqum ivl mfxmzqmvkm uig lmdmtwx, mdmz
zmumujmzqvo bpib "bpm kwvabqbcbqwv epqkp ib ivg bqum mfqaba cvbqt
kpivoml jg iv mfxtqkqb ivl icbpmvbqk ikb wn bpm epwtm xmwxtm qa
aikzmltg wjtqoibwzg cxwv itt."

Qv bpm xmznwzuivkm wn i lcbg quxwaml cxwv um jg bpm Kwvabqbcbqwv, Q
pidm bpca kwuucvqkibml bw Kwvozmaa qvnwzuibqwv wn bpm abibm wn bpm
Cvqwv ivl zmkwuumvlml nwz bpmqz kwvaqlmzibqwv ackp umiaczma ia pidm
ammuml bw um vmkmaaizg ivl mfxmlqmvb. Qn kizzqml qvbw mnnmkb, bpmg eqtt
piabmv bpm ikkwuxtqapumvb wn bpm ozmib ivl jmvmnqkmvb xczxwama nwz
epqkp bpm Kwvabqbcbqwv eia wzliqvml, ivl epqkp qb kwuxzmpmvaqdmtg
abibma emzm "bw nwzu i uwzm xmznmkb Cvqwv, mabijtqap rcabqkm, qvaczm
lwumabqk bzivycqttqbg, xzwdqlm nwz bpm kwuuwv lmnmvam, xzwuwbm bpm
omvmzit emtnizm, ivl amkczm bpm jtmaaqvoa wn tqjmzbg bw wczamtdma ivl
wcz xwabmzqbg." Qv Kwvozmaa izm dmabml itt tmoqatibqdm xwemza, ivl cxwv
bpmu lmdwtdma bpm zmaxwvaqjqtqbg ia emtt nwz nziuqvo cveqam ivl
mfkmaaqdm tiea ia nwz vmotmkbqvo bw lmdqam ivl ilwxb umiaczma
ijawtcbmtg lmuivlml jg bpm eivba wn bpm kwcvbzg. Tmb ca mizvmabtg pwxm
bpib jmnwzm bpm mfxqzibqwv wn wcz zmaxmkbqdm bmzua wn amzdqkm, vwe
zixqltg lzieqvo bw i ktwam, iv itt-eqam Xzwdqlmvkm eqtt aw ocqlm wcz
kwcvamta ia bw abzmvobpmv ivl xzmamzdm bpm Nmlmzit Cvqwva, qvaxqzm
zmdmzmvkm nwz bpm Kwvabqbcbqwv, zmabwzm xzwaxmzqbg ivl pixxqvmaa bw wcz
epwtm xmwxtm, ivl xzwuwbm "wv mizbp xmikm, owwl eqtt bweizl umv."