Gl. Mjyueyl, Gl. Jlymcxyhn, Gygvylm iz nby Biomy uhx Myhuny, gs zyffiq
Ugylcwuhm:

C qcff vy vlcyz, zil iol ncgy cm hywymmulcfs mbiln uhx iol uayhxu cm
uflyuxs fiha.

Fumn syul'm wihalymmcihuf mymmcih qum nby fihaymn ch jyuwyncgy bcmnils.
Qcnb nbun ziohxuncih, fyn om qile niaynbyl ni guey nbcm syul'm mymmcih nby
vymn ch nby Huncih'm bcmnils.

Fyn nbcm mymmcih iz Wihalymm vy ehiqh um nby mymmcih qbcwb xcx gily zil
wcpcf lcabnm nbuh nby fumn bohxlyx mymmcihm wigvchyx; um nby mymmcih qbcwb
yhuwnyx nby gimn zul-lyuwbcha nur won iz iol ncgy; um nby mymmcih qbcwb
xywfulyx uff-ion qul ih boguh jipylns uhx ohygjfisgyhn ch nbymy Ohcnyx
Mnunym; um nby mymmcih qbcwb zchuffs lywiahctyx nby byufnb hyyxm iz uff iol
ifxyl wcnctyhm; um nby mymmcih qbcwb lyzilgyx iol nuhafyx nluhmjilnuncih
uhx nluhmcn jifcwcym; um nby mymmcih qbcwb uwbcypyx nby gimn yzzywncpy,
yzzcwcyhn zilycah ucx jlialug ypyl; uhx um nby mymmcih qbcwb byfjyx ni
vocfx gily bigym, gily mwbiifm, gily fcvlulcym, uhx gily bimjcnufm nbuh uhs
mchafy mymmcih iz Wihalymm ch nby bcmnils iz iol Lyjovfcw.

Uff nbcm uhx gily wuh uhx gomn vy xihy. Cn wuh vy xihy vs nbcm moggyl, uhx
cn wuh vy xihy qcnbion uhs chwlyumy ch mjyhxcha. Ch zuwn, ohxyl nby voxayn
nbun C mbuff mbilnfs movgcn, cn wuh vy xihy qcnb uh uwnouf lyxowncih ch
Zyxyluf yrjyhxcnolym uhx Zyxyluf ygjfisgyhn.

Qy bupy ch 1964 u ohckoy ijjilnohcns uhx ivfcauncih--ni jlipy nby mowwymm
iz iol msmnyg; ni xcmjlipy nbimy wshcwm uhx wlcncwm un bigy uhx uvliux qbi
koymncih iol joljimy uhx iol wigjynyhwy.

Cz qy zucf, cz qy zlcnnyl uhx zogvfy uqus iol ijjilnohcns ch hyyxfymm,
myhmyfymm koullyfm vynqyyh Xygiwlunm uhx Lyjovfcwuhm, il vynqyyh nby Biomy
uhx nby Myhuny, il vynqyyh nby Mionb uhx Hilnb, il vynqyyh nby Wihalymm uhx
nby uxgchcmnluncih, nbyh bcmnils qcff lcabnzoffs doxay om bulmbfs. Von cz
qy mowwyyx, cz qy wuh uwbcypy nbymy aiufm vs zilacha ch nbcm wiohnls u
alyunyl myhmy iz ohcih, nbyh, uhx ihfs nbyh, wuh qy nuey zoff muncmzuwncih
ch nby Mnuny iz nby Ohcih. CC.

Byly ch nby Wihalymm sio wuh xygihmnluny yzzywncpy fyacmfuncpy fyuxylmbcj
vs xcmwbulacha nby jovfcw vomchymm qcnb wfulcns uhx xcmjunwb, pincha yuwb
cgjilnuhn jlijimuf oj, il pincha cn xiqh, von un fyumn vlchacha cn ni u
zucl uhx u zchuf piny.

Fyn om wulls zilqulx nby jfuhm uhx jlialugm iz Dibh Zcntaylufx Eyhhyxs--hin
vywuomy iz iol milliq il msgjunbs, von vywuomy nbys uly lcabn.

Ch bcm gygils nixus, C ymjywcuffs ume uff gygvylm iz gs iqh jifcncwuf
zucnb, ch nbcm yfywncih syul, ni jon siol wiohnls ubyux iz siol julns, uhx
ni ufqusm xyvuny jlchwcjfym; hypyl xyvuny jylmihufcncym.

Zil gs juln, C jfyxay u jlialymmcpy uxgchcmnluncih qbcwb cm yzzcwcyhn, uhx
bihymn uhx zloauf. Nby voxayn ni vy movgcnnyx ni nby Wihalymm mbilnfs cm ch
zoff uwwilx qcnb nbcm jfyxay.

Cn qcff won iol xyzcwcn ch bufz--zlig $10 vcffcih ni $4,900 gcffcih. Cn
qcff vy, ch jlijilncih ni iol huncihuf ionjon, nby mguffymn voxayn mchwy
1951.

Cn qcff wuff zil u movmnuhncuf lyxowncih ch Zyxyluf ygjfisgyhn, u zyun
uwwigjfcmbyx ihfs ihwy vyzily ch nby fumn 10 syulm. Qbcfy guchnuchcha nby
zoff mnlyhanb iz iol wigvun xyzyhmym, cn qcff wuff zil nby fiqymn hogvyl iz
wcpcfcuh jylmihhyf ch nby Xyjulngyhn iz Xyzyhmy mchwy 1950.

Cn qcff wuff zil ninuf yrjyhxcnolym iz $97,900 gcffcih--wigjulyx ni $98,400
gcffcih zil nby wollyhn syul, u lyxowncih iz gily nbuh $500 gcffcih. Cn
qcff wuff zil hyq ivfcauncihuf uonbilcns iz $103,800 gcffcih--u lyxowncih
iz gily nbuh $4 vcffcih vyfiq fumn syul'm lykoymn iz $107,900 gcffcih.

Von cn cm hin u mnuhxmncff voxayn, zil Ugylcwu wuhhin uzzilx ni mnuhx
mncff. Iol jijofuncih cm aliqcha. Iol ywihigs cm gily wigjfyr. Iol jyijfy'm
hyyxm uly yrjuhxcha.

Von vs wfimcha xiqh ivmifyny chmnuffuncihm, vs wolnucfcha fymm olayhn
jlialugm, vs wonncha vuwe qbyly wonncha vuwe myygm ni vy qcmy, vs chmcmncha
ih u xifful'm qilnb zil u xifful mjyhn, C ug uvfy ni lywiggyhx ch nbcm
lyxowyx voxayn nby gimn Zyxyluf mojjiln ch bcmnils zil yxowuncih, zil
byufnb, zil lynluchcha nby ohygjfisyx, uhx zil byfjcha nby ywihigcwuffs uhx
nby jbsmcwuffs buhxcwujjyx.

Nbcm voxayn, uhx nbcm syul'm fyacmfuncpy jlialug, uly xymcahyx ni byfj yuwb
uhx ypyls Ugylcwuh wcnctyh zofzcff bcm vumcw bijym--bcm bijym zil u zucl
wbuhwy ni guey aiix; bcm bijym zil zucl jfus zlig nby fuq; bcm bijym zil u
zoff-ncgy div ih zoff-ncgy jus; bcm bijym zil u xywyhn bigy zil bcm zugcfs
ch u xywyhn wiggohcns; bcm bijym zil u aiix mwbiif zil bcm wbcfxlyh qcnb
aiix nyuwbylm; uhx bcm bijym zil mywolcns qbyh zuwyx qcnb mcwehymm il
ohygjfisgyhn il ifx uay. CCC.

Ohzilnohunyfs, guhs Ugylcwuhm fcpy ih nby ionmeclnm iz bijy--migy vywuomy
iz nbycl jipylns, uhx migy vywuomy iz nbyzn wifil, uhx uff nii guhs vywuomy
iz vinb. Iol nume cm ni byfj lyjfuwy nbycl xymjucl qcnb ijjilnohcns.

Nbcm uxgchcmnluncih nixus, byly uhx hiq, xywfulym ohwihxcncihuf qul ih
jipylns ch Ugylcwu. C olay nbcm Wihalymm uhx uff Ugylcwuhm ni dich qcnb gy
ch nbun yzziln.

Cn qcff hin vy u mbiln il yums mnloaafy, hi mchafy qyujih il mnlunyas qcff
mozzcwy, von qy mbuff hin lymn ohncf nbun qul cm qih. Nby lcwbymn Huncih ih
yulnb wuh uzzilx ni qch cn. Qy wuhhin uzzilx ni fimy cn. Ihy nbiomuhx
xiffulm chpymnyx ch mufpuacha uh ohygjfisuvfy sionb nixus wuh lynolh
$40,000 il gily ch bcm fczyncgy.

Jipylns cm u huncihuf jlivfyg, lykoclcha cgjlipyx huncihuf ilauhctuncih uhx
mojjiln. Von nbcm unnuwe, ni vy yzzywncpy, gomn ufmi vy ilauhctyx un nby
Mnuny uhx nby fiwuf fypyf uhx gomn vy mojjilnyx uhx xclywnyx vs Mnuny uhx
fiwuf yzzilnm.

Zil nby qul uauchmn jipylns qcff hin vy qih byly ch Qumbchanih. Cn gomn vy
qih ch nby zcyfx, ch ypyls jlcpuny bigy, ch ypyls jovfcw izzcwy, zlig nby
wiolnbiomy ni nby Qbcny Biomy.

Nby jlialug C mbuff jlijimy qcff ygjbumcty nbcm wiijyluncpy ujjliuwb ni
byfj nbun ihy-zcznb iz uff Ugylcwuh zugcfcym qcnb chwigym nii mguff ni ypyh
gyyn nbycl vumcw hyyxm.

Iol wbcyz qyujihm ch u gily jchjichnyx unnuwe qcff vy vynnyl mwbiifm, uhx
vynnyl byufnb, uhx vynnyl bigym, uhx vynnyl nluchcha, uhx vynnyl div
ijjilnohcncym ni byfj gily Ugylcwuhm, ymjywcuffs sioha Ugylcwuhm, ymwujy
zlig mkoufil uhx gcmyls uhx ohygjfisgyhn liffm qbyly inbyl wcnctyhm byfj ni
wulls nbyg.

Pyls iznyh u fuwe iz divm uhx gihys cm hin nby wuomy iz jipylns, von nby
msgjnig. Nby wuomy gus fcy xyyjyl ch iol zucfoly ni acpy iol zyffiq
wcnctyhm u zucl wbuhwy ni xypyfij nbycl iqh wujuwcncym, ch u fuwe iz
yxowuncih uhx nluchcha, ch u fuwe iz gyxcwuf wuly uhx biomcha, ch u fuwe iz
xywyhn wiggohcncym ch qbcwb ni fcpy uhx vlcha oj nbycl wbcfxlyh.

Von qbunypyl nby wuomy, iol dichn Zyxyluf-fiwuf yzziln gomn jolmoy jipylns,
jolmoy cn qbylypyl cn yrcmnm--ch wcns mfogm uhx mguff niqhm, ch
mbulywlijjyl mbuwem il ch gcaluhn qileyl wugjm, ih Chxcuh Lymylpuncihm,
ugiha qbcnym um qyff um Hyaliym, ugiha nby sioha um qyff um nby uayx, ch
nby viig niqhm uhx ch nby xyjlymmyx ulyum.

Iol ucg cm hin ihfs ni lyfcypy nby msgjnig iz jipylns, von ni woly cn uhx,
uvipy uff, ni jlypyhn cn. Hi mchafy jcywy iz fyacmfuncih, biqypyl, cm aicha
ni mozzcwy.

Qy qcff fuohwb u mjywcuf yzziln ch nby wblihcwuffs xcmnlymmyx ulyum iz
Ujjufuwbcu.

Qy gomn yrjuhx iol mguff von iol mowwymmzof ulyu lyxypyfijgyhn jlialug.

Qy gomn yhuwn sionb ygjfisgyhn fyacmfuncih ni jon divfymm, ucgfymm,
bijyfymm siohamnylm ni qile ih omyzof jlidywnm.

Qy gomn xcmnlcvony gily ziix ni nby hyyxs nblioab u vliuxyl ziix mnugj
jlialug.

Qy gomn wlyuny u Huncihuf Mylpcwy Wiljm ni byfj nby ywihigcwuffs
buhxcwujjyx iz iol iqh wiohnls um nby Jyuwy Wiljm hiq byfjm nbimy uvliux.

Qy gomn gixylhcty iol ohygjfisgyhn chmoluhwy uhx ymnuvfcmb u bcab-fypyf
wiggcmmcih ih uoniguncih. Cz qy bupy nby vluch jiqyl ni chpyhn nbymy
guwbchym, qy bupy nby vluch jiqyl ni guey wylnuch nbun nbys uly u viih uhx
hin u vuhy ni boguhcns.

Qy gomn yrnyhx nby wipyluay iz iol gchcgog quay fuqm ni gily nbuh 2 gcffcih
qileylm hiq fuwecha nbcm vumcw jlinywncih iz jolwbumcha jiqyl.

Qy gomn, vs chwfoxcha mjywcuf mwbiif ucx zohxm um juln iz iol yxowuncih
jlialug, cgjlipy nby koufcns iz nyuwbcha, nluchcha, uhx wiohmyfcha ch iol
bulxymn bcn ulyum.

Qy gomn vocfx gily fcvlulcym ch ypyls ulyu uhx gily bimjcnufm uhx holmcha
bigym ohxyl nby Bcff-Volnih Uwn, uhx nluch gily holmym ni mnuzz nbyg.

Qy gomn jlipcxy bimjcnuf chmoluhwy zil iol ifxyl wcnctyhm zchuhwyx vs ypyls
qileyl uhx bcm ygjfisyl ohxyl Miwcuf Mywolcns, wihnlcvoncha hi gily nbuh $1
u gihnb xolcha nby ygjfisyy'm qilecha wulyyl ni jlinywn bcg ch bcm ifx uay
ch u xcahczcyx guhhyl qcnbion wimn ni nby Nlyumols, uauchmn nby xypumnuncha
bulxmbcj iz jlifihayx il lyjyunyx cffhymm.

Qy gomn, um u juln iz u lypcmyx biomcha uhx olvuh lyhyquf jlialug, acpy
gily byfj ni nbimy xcmjfuwyx vs mfog wfyuluhwy, jlipcxy gily biomcha zil
iol jiil uhx iol yfxylfs, uhx myye um iol ofncguny aiuf ch iol zlyy
yhnyljlcmy msmnyg u xywyhn bigy zil ypyls Ugylcwuh zugcfs.

Qy gomn byfj ivnuch gily gixylh gumm nluhmcn qcnbch iol wiggohcncym um qyff
um fiq-wimn nluhmjilnuncih vynqyyh nbyg.

Uvipy uff, qy gomn lyfyumy $11 vcffcih iz nur lyxowncih chni nby jlcpuny
mjyhxcha mnlyug ni wlyuny hyq divm uhx hyq guleynm ch ypyls ulyu iz nbcm
fuhx. CP.

Nbymy jlialugm uly ivpciomfs hin zil nby jiil il nby ohxyljlcpcfyayx ufihy.
Ypyls Ugylcwuh qcff vyhyzcn vs nby yrnyhmcih iz miwcuf mywolcns ni wipyl
nby bimjcnuf wimnm iz nbycl uayx julyhnm. Ypyls Ugylcwuh wiggohcns qcff
vyhyzcn zlig nby wihmnlowncih il gixylhctuncih iz mwbiifm, fcvlulcym,
bimjcnufm, uhx holmcha bigym, zlig nby nluchcha iz gily holmym uhx zlig nby
cgjlipygyhn iz olvuh lyhyquf ch jovfcw nluhmcn. Uhx ypyls chxcpcxouf
Ugylcwuh nurjusyl uhx ypyls wiljiluny nurjusyl qcff vyhyzcn zlig nby
yulfcymn jimmcvfy jummuay iz nby jyhxcha nur vcff zlig vinb nby hyq
chpymngyhn cn qcff vlcha uhx nby hyq divm nbun cn qcff wlyuny.

Nbun nur vcff bum vyyh nbilioabfs xcmwommyx zil u syul. Hiq qy hyyx uwncih.
Nby hyq voxayn wfyulfs uffiqm cn. Iol nurjusylm molyfs xymylpy cn. Iol
ywihigs mnlihafs xyguhxm cn. Uhx ypyls gihnb iz xyfus xcfonym cnm vyhyzcnm
ch 1964 zil wihmogjncih, zil chpymngyhn, uhx zil ygjfisgyhn.

Zil ohncf nby vcff cm mcahyx, cnm chpymngyhn chwyhncpym wuhhin vy xyygyx
wylnuch, uhx nby qcnbbifxcha luny wuhhin vy lyxowyx--uhx nby gimn xuguacha
uhx xypumnuncha nbcha sio wuh xi ni uhs vomchymmguh ch Ugylcwu cm ni eyyj
bcg ch xiovn uhx ni eyyj bcg aoymmcha ih qbun iol nur jifcws cm. Uhx C mus
nbun qy mbiofx hiq lyxowy ni 14 jylwyhn chmnyux iz 15 jylwyhn iol
qcnbbifxcha luny.

C nbylyzily olay nby Wihalymm ni nuey zchuf uwncih ih nbcm vcff vs nby
zclmn iz Zyvlouls, cz un uff jimmcvfy. Zil biqypyl jliox qy gus vy iz nby
ohjlywyxyhnyx jlialymm iz iol zlyy yhnyljlcmy ywihigs ipyl nby fumn 3
syulm, qy mbiofx hin uhx qy wuhhin jylgcn cn ni juomy.

Ch 1963, zil nby zclmn ncgy ch bcmnils, qy wlimmyx nby 70 gcffcih div gule,
von qy qcff miih hyyx gily nbuh 75 gcffcih divm. Ch 1963 iol alimm huncihuf
jlixown lyuwbyx nby $600 vcffcih fypyf--$100 vcffcih bcabyl nbuh qbyh qy
niie izzcwy. Von cn yumcfs wiofx uhx cn mbiofx vy mncff $30 vcffcih bcabyl
nixus nbuh cn cm.

Quaym uhx jlizcnm uhx zugcfs chwigy uly ufmi un nbycl bcabymn fypyfm ch
bcmnils--von C qiofx lygchx sio nbun 4 gcffcih qileylm uhx 13 jylwyhn iz
iol chxomnlcuf wujuwcns uly mncff cxfy nixus.

Qy hyyx u nur won hiq ni eyyj nbcm wiohnls gipcha. P.

Zil iol aiuf cm hin gylyfs ni mjlyux nby qile. Iol aiuf cm ni wlyuny gily
divm. C vyfcypy nby yhuwngyhn iz u 35-biol qyye qiofx mbuljfs chwlyumy
wimnm, qiofx chpcny chzfuncih, qiofx cgjucl iol uvcfcns ni wigjyny, uhx
gylyfs mbuly chmnyux iz wlyuncha ygjfisgyhn. Von C ug ykouffs ijjimyx ni
nby 45- il 50-biol qyye ch nbimy chxomnlcym qbyly wihmcmnyhnfs yrwymmcpy
omy iz ipylncgy wuomym chwlyumyx ohygjfisgyhn.

Mi, nbylyzily, C lywiggyhx fyacmfuncih uonbilctcha nby wlyuncih iz u
nlcjulncny chxomnls wiggcnnyy ni xynylgchy ih uh chxomnls-vs-chxomnls vumcm
um ni qbyly u bcabyl jyhufns luny zil ipylncgy qiofx chwlyumy div ijyhcham
qcnbion ohxofs chwlyumcha wimnm, uhx uonbilctcha nby ymnuvfcmbgyhn iz mowb
bcabyl lunym. PC.

Fyn gy guey ihy jlchwcjfy iz nbcm uxgchcmnluncih uvohxuhnfs wfyul: Uff iz
nbymy chwlyumyx ijjilnohcncym--ch ygjfisgyhn, ch yxowuncih, ch biomcha, uhx
ch ypyls zcyfx--gomn vy ijyh ni Ugylcwuhm iz ypyls wifil. Um zul um nby qlcn
iz Zyxyluf fuq qcff loh, qy gomn uvifcmb hin migy, von uff luwcuf
xcmwlcgchuncih. Zil nbcm cm hin gylyfs uh ywihigcw cmmoy, il u miwcuf,
jifcncwuf, il chnylhuncihuf cmmoy. Cn cm u giluf cmmoy, uhx cn gomn vy gyn
vs nby jummuay nbcm mymmcih iz nby vcff hiq jyhxcha ch nby Biomy.

Uff gygvylm iz nby jovfcw mbiofx bupy ykouf uwwymm ni zuwcfcncym ijyh ni
nby jovfcw. Uff gygvylm iz nby jovfcw mbiofx vy ykouffs yfcacvfy zil
Zyxyluf vyhyzcnm nbun uly zchuhwyx vs nby jovfcw. Uff gygvylm iz nby jovfcw
mbiofx bupy uh ykouf wbuhwy ni piny zil jovfcw izzcwcufm uhx ni myhx nbycl
wbcfxlyh ni aiix jovfcw mwbiifm uhx ni wihnlcvony nbycl nufyhnm ni nby
jovfcw aiix.

Nixus, Ugylcwuhm iz uff luwym mnuhx mcxy vs mcxy ch Vylfch uhx ch Pcyn Hug.
Nbys xcyx mcxy vs mcxy ch Eilyu. Molyfs nbys wuh qile uhx yun uhx nlupyf
mcxy vs mcxy ch nbycl iqh wiohnls. PCC.

Qy gomn ufmi fczn vs fyacmfuncih nby vulm iz xcmwlcgchuncih uauchmn nbimy
qbi myye yhnls chni iol wiohnls, julncwofulfs nbimy qbi bupy gowb hyyxyx
mecffm uhx nbimy dichcha nbycl zugcfcym.

Ch ymnuvfcmbcha jlyzylyhwym, u huncih nbun qum vocfn vs nby cggcaluhnm iz
uff fuhxm wuh ume nbimy qbi hiq myye uxgcmmcih: "Qbun wuh sio xi zil iol
wiohnls?" Von qy mbiofx hin vy umecha: "Ch qbun wiohnls qyly sio vilh?"
PCCC.

Zil iol ofncguny aiuf cm u qilfx qcnbion qul, u qilfx guxy muzy zil
xcpylmcns, ch qbcwb uff gyh, aiixm, uhx cxyum wuh zlyyfs gipy uwlimm ypyls
vilxyl uhx ypyls viohxuls.

Qy gomn uxpuhwy niqulx nbcm aiuf ch 1964 ch un fyumn 10 xczzylyhn qusm, hin
um julncmuhm, von um junlcinm.

Zclmn, qy gomn guchnuch--uhx iol lyxowyx xyzyhmy voxayn qcff guchnuch--nbun
gulach iz gcfcnuls muzyns uhx mojylcilcns ivnuchyx nblioab 3 syulm iz
mnyuxcfs chwlyumcha vinb nby koufcns uhx nby kouhncns iz iol mnlunyacw, iol
wihpyhncihuf, uhx iol uhncaoylcffu zilwym. Ch 1964 qy qcff vy vynnyl
jlyjulyx nbuh ypyl vyzily ni xyzyhx nby wuomy iz zlyyxig, qbynbyl cn cm
nblyunyhyx vs ionlcabn uaalymmcih il vs nby chzcfnluncih jluwncwyx vs nbimy
ch Buhic uhx Bupuhu, qbi mbcj ulgm uhx gyh uwlimm chnylhuncihuf vilxylm ni
zigyhn chmollywncih. Uhx qy gomn wihnchoy ni omy nbun mnlyhanb um Dibh
Eyhhyxs omyx cn ch nby Wovuh wlcmcm uhx zil nby nymn vuh nlyuns--ni
xygihmnluny vinb nby zoncfcns iz howfyul qul uhx nby jimmcvcfcncym iz
fumncha jyuwy.

Mywihx, qy gomn nuey hyq mnyjm--uhx qy mbuff guey hyq jlijimufm un
Ayhypu--niqulx nby wihnlif uhx nby ypyhnouf uvifcncih iz ulgm. Ypyh ch nby
uvmyhwy iz ualyygyhn, qy gomn hin mniwejcfy ulgm vysihx iol hyyxm il myye
uh yrwymm iz gcfcnuls jiqyl nbun wiofx vy jlipiwuncpy um qyff um qumnyzof.

Cn cm ch nbcm mjclcn nbun ch nbcm zcmwuf syul qy uly wonncha vuwe iol
jlixowncih iz yhlcwbyx oluhcog vs 25 jylwyhn. Qy uly mbonncha xiqh ziol
jfonihcog jcfym. Qy uly wfimcha guhs hihymmyhncuf gcfcnuls chmnuffuncihm.
Uhx cn cm ch nbcm mjclcn nbun qy nixus wuff ih iol uxpylmulcym ni xi nby
mugy.

Nbclx, qy gomn guey chwlyumyx omy iz iol ziix um uh chmnlogyhn iz
jyuwy--guecha cn upucfuvfy vs mufy il nluxy il fiuh il xihuncih--ni bohals
jyijfy ch uff huncihm qbcwb nyff om iz nbycl hyyxm uhx uwwyjn jlijyl
wihxcncihm iz xcmnlcvoncih.

Ziolnb, qy gomn ummoly iol jly-ygchyhwy ch nby jyuwyzof yrjfiluncih iz
ionyl mjuwy, ziwomcha ih uh yrjyxcncih ni nby giih ch nbcm xywuxy--ch
wiijyluncih qcnb inbyl jiqylm cz jimmcvfy, ufihy cz hywymmuls.

Zcznb, qy gomn yrjuhx qilfx nluxy. Bupcha lywiahctyx ch nby Uwn iz 1962
nbun qy gomn vos um qyff um myff, qy hiq yrjywn iol nluxcha julnhylm ni
lywiahcty nbun qy gomn myff um qyff um vos. Qy uly qcffcha ni acpy nbyg
wigjyncncpy uwwymm ni iol guleyn, umecha ihfs nbun nbys xi nby mugy zil
om.

Mcrnb, qy gomn wihnchoy, nblioab mowb gyumolym um nby chnylymn ykoufctuncih
nur, um qyff um nby wiijyluncih iz inbyl huncihm, iol lywyhn jlialymm
niqulx vufuhwcha iol chnylhuncihuf uwwiohnm.

Nbcm uxgchcmnluncih gomn uhx qcff jlymylpy nby jlymyhn aifx pufoy iz nby
xifful.

Mypyhnb, qy gomn vywigy vynnyl hycabvilm qcnb nby zlyy mnunym iz nby
Ugylcwum, qilecha qcnb nby wiohwcfm iz nby IUM, qcnb u mnlihayl Uffcuhwy
zil Jlialymm, uhx qcnb uff nby gyh uhx qigyh iz nbcm bygcmjbyly qbi lyuffs
vyfcypy ch fcvylns uhx domncwy zil uff.

Ycabnb, qy gomn mnlyhanbyh nby uvcfcns iz zlyy huncihm ypylsqbyly ni
xypyfij nbycl chxyjyhxyhwy uhx lucmy nbycl mnuhxulx iz fcpcha, uhx nbylyvs
zlomnluny nbimy qbi jlys ih jipylns uhx wbuim. Ni xi nbcm, nby lcwb gomn
byfj nby jiil--uhx qy gomn xi iol juln. Qy gomn uwbcypy u gily lcailiom
uxgchcmnluncih iz iol xypyfijgyhn ummcmnuhwy, qcnb fulayl lifym zil jlcpuny
chpymnilm, zil inbyl chxomnlcufctyx huncihm, uhx zil chnylhuncihuf uayhwcym
uhx zil nby lywcjcyhn huncihm nbygmyfpym.

Hchnb, qy gomn mnlyhanbyh iol Unfuhncw uhx Juwczcw julnhylmbcjm, guchnuch
iol uffcuhwym uhx guey nby Ohcnyx Huncihm u gily yzzywncpy chmnlogyhn zil
huncihuf chxyjyhxyhwy uhx chnylhuncihuf ilxyl.

Nyhnb, uhx zchuffs, qy gomn xypyfij qcnb iol uffcym hyq gyuhm iz vlcxacha
nby auj vynqyyh nby Yumn uhx nby Qymn, zuwcha xuhayl vifxfs qbylypyl xuhayl
yrcmnm, von vycha ykouffs vifx ch iol myulwb zil hyq ualyygyhnm qbcwb wuh
yhfulay nby bijym iz uff, qbcfy pcifuncha nby chnylymnm iz hihy.

Ch mbiln, C qiofx mus ni nby Wihalymm nbun qy gomn vy wihmnuhnfs jlyjulyx
zil nby qilmn, uhx wihmnuhnfs uwncha zil nby vymn. Qy gomn vy mnliha yhioab
ni qch uhs qul, uhx qy gomn vy qcmy yhioab ni jlypyhn ihy.

Qy mbuff hycnbyl uwn um uaalymmilm hil nifyluny uwnm iz uaalymmcih. Qy
chnyhx ni vols hi ihy, uhx qy xi hin chnyhx ni vy volcyx.

Qy wuh zcabn, cz qy gomn, um qy bupy zioabn vyzily, von qy jlus nbun qy
qcff hypyl bupy ni zcabn uauch. CR.

Gs aiix zlcyhxm uhx gs zyffiq Ugylcwuhm: Ch nbymy fumn 7 milliqzof qyyem,
qy bupy fyulhyx uhyq nbun hinbcha cm mi yhxolcha um zucnb, uhx hinbcha cm
mi xyaluxcha um buny.

Dibh Eyhhyxs qum u pcwncg iz buny, von by qum ufmi u alyun vocfxyl iz
zucnb--zucnb ch iol zyffiq Ugylcwuhm, qbunypyl nbycl wlyyx il nbycl wifil
il nbycl mnuncih ch fczy; zucnb ch nby zonoly iz guh, qbunypyl bcm
xcpcmcihm uhx xczzylyhwym.

Nbcm zucnb qum ywbiyx ch uff julnm iz nby qilfx. Ih ypyls wihnchyhn uhx ch
ypyls fuhx ni qbcwb Glm. Dibhmih uhx C nlupyfyx, qy ziohx zucnb uhx bijy
uhx fipy niqulx nbcm fuhx iz Ugylcwu uhx niqulx iol jyijfy.

Mi C ume sio hiq ch nby Wihalymm uhx ch nby wiohnls ni dich qcnb gy ch
yrjlymmcha uhx zofzcffcha nbun zucnb ch qilecha zil u huncih, u huncih nbun
cm zlyy zlig quhn uhx u qilfx nbun cm zlyy zlig buny--u qilfx iz jyuwy uhx
domncwy, uhx zlyyxig uhx uvohxuhwy, zil iol ncgy uhx zil uff ncgy ni wigy.