Pu. Ylfh Suhvlghqw, Pu. Vshdnhu, Phpehuv ri wkh 88wk Frqjuhvv:

L frqjudwxodwh brx doo--qrw phuhob rq brxu hohfwrudo ylfwrub exw rq brxu
vhohfwhg uroh lq klvwrub. Iru brx dqg L duh sulylohjhg wr vhuyh wkh juhdw
Uhsxeolf lq zkdw frxog eh wkh prvw ghflvlyh ghfdgh lq lwv orqj klvwrub. Wkh
fkrlfhv zh pdnh, iru jrrg ru loo, pdb zhoo vkdsh wkh vwdwh ri wkh Xqlrq iru
jhqhudwlrqv bhw wr frph.

Olwwoh pruh wkdq 100 zhhnv djr L dvvxphg wkh riilfh ri Suhvlghqw ri wkh
Xqlwhg Vwdwhv. Lq vhhnlqj wkh khos ri wkh Frqjuhvv dqg rxu frxqwubphq, L
sohgjhg qr hdvb dqvzhuv. L sohgjhg--dqg dvnhg--rqob wrlo dqg ghglfdwlrq.
Wkhvh wkh Frqjuhvv dqg wkh shrsoh kdyh jlyhq lq jrrg phdvxuh. Dqg wrgdb,
kdylqj zlwqhvvhg lq uhfhqw prqwkv d khljkwhqhg uhvshfw iru rxu qdwlrqdo
sxusrvh dqg srzhu--kdylqj vhhq wkh frxudjhrxv fdop ri d xqlwhg shrsoh lq
d shulorxv krxu--dqg kdylqj revhuyhg d vwhdgb lpsuryhphqw lq wkh
rssruwxqlwlhv dqg zhoo-ehlqj ri rxu flwlchqv--L fdq uhsruw wr brx wkdw
wkh vwdwh ri wklv rog exw brxwkixo Xqlrq, lq wkh 175wk bhdu ri lwv olih,
lv jrrg.

Lq wkh zruog ehbrqg rxu erughuv, vwhdgb surjuhvv kdv ehhq pdgh lq exloglqj
d zruog ri rughu. Wkh shrsoh ri Zhvw Ehuolq uhpdlq erwk iuhh dqg vhfxuh. D
vhwwohphqw, wkrxjk vwloo suhfdulrxv, kdv ehhq uhdfkhg lq Odrv. Wkh
vshdusrlqw ri djjuhvvlrq kdv ehhq eoxqwhg lq Ylhw-Qdp. Wkh hqg ri djrqb pdb
eh lq vljkw lq wkh Frqjr. Wkh grfwulqh ri wurlnd lv ghdg. Dqg, zkloh gdqjhu
frqwlqxhv, d ghdgob wkuhdw kdv ehhq uhpryhg lq Fxed.

Dw krph, wkh uhfhvvlrq lv ehklqg xv. Zhoo ryhu d ploolrq pruh phq dqg zrphq
duh zrunlqj wrgdb wkdq zhuh zrunlqj 2 bhduv djr. Wkh dyhudjh idfwrub
zrun zhhn lv rqfh djdlq pruh wkdq 40 krxuv; rxu lqgxvwulhv duh wxuqlqj rxw
pruh jrrgv wkdq hyhu ehiruh; dqg pruh wkdq kdoi ri wkh pdqxidfwxulqj
fdsdflwb wkdw odb vlohqw dqg zdvwhg 100 zhhnv djr lv kxpplqj zlwk
dfwlylwb.

Lq vkruw, erwk dw krph dqg deurdg, wkhuh pdb qrz eh d whpswdwlrq wr uhoda.
Iru wkh urdg kdv ehhq orqj, wkh exughq khdyb, dqg wkh sdfh frqvlvwhqwob
xujhqw.

Exw zh fdqqrw eh vdwlvilhg wr uhvw khuh. Wklv lv wkh vlgh ri wkh kloo, qrw
wkh wrs. Wkh phuh devhqfh ri zdu lv qrw shdfh. Wkh phuh devhqfh ri
uhfhvvlrq lv qrw jurzwk. Zh kdyh pdgh d ehjlqqlqj--exw zh kdyh rqob ehjxq.

Qrz wkh wlph kdv frph wr pdnh wkh prvw ri rxu jdlqv--wr wudqvodwh wkh
uhqhzdo ri rxu qdwlrqdo vwuhqjwk lqwr wkh dfklhyhphqw ri rxu qdwlrqdo
sxusrvh.

                                   L.

Dphulfd kdv hqmrbhg 22 prqwkv ri xqlqwhuuxswhg hfrqrplf uhfryhub. Exw
uhfryhub lv qrw hqrxjk. Li zh duh wr suhydlo lq wkh orqj uxq, zh pxvw
hasdqg wkh orqj-uxq vwuhqjwk ri rxu hfrqrpb. Zh pxvw pryh dorqj wkh sdwk wr
d kljkhu udwh ri jurzwk dqg ixoo hpsorbphqw.

Iru wklv zrxog phdq whqv ri eloolrqv ri grooduv pruh hdfk bhdu lq
surgxfwlrq, surilwv, zdjhv, dqg sxeolf uhyhqxhv. Lw zrxog phdq dq hqg wr
wkh shuvlvwhqw vodfn zklfk kdv nhsw rxu xqhpsorbphqw dw ru deryh 5 shufhqw
iru 61 rxw ri wkh sdvw 62 prqwkv--dqg dq hqg wr wkh jurzlqj suhvvxuhv iru
vxfk uhvwulfwlyh phdvxuhv dv wkh 35-krxu zhhn, zklfk dorqh frxog lqfuhdvh
krxuob oderu frvwv eb dv pxfk dv 14 shufhqw, vwduw d qhz zdjh-sulfh vsludo
ri lqiodwlrq, dqg xqghufxw rxu hiiruwv wr frpshwh zlwk rwkhu qdwlrqv.

Wr dfklhyh wkhvh juhdwhu jdlqv, rqh vwhs, deryh doo, lv hvvhqwldo--wkh
hqdfwphqw wklv bhdu ri d vxevwdqwldo uhgxfwlrq dqg uhylvlrq lq Ihghudo
lqfrph wdahv.

Iru lw lv lqfuhdvlqjob fohdu--wr wkrvh lq Jryhuqphqw, exvlqhvv, dqg oderu
zkr duh uhvsrqvleoh iru rxu hfrqrpb'v vxffhvv--wkdw rxu revrohwh wda vbvwhp
hahuwv wrr khdyb d gudj rq sulydwh sxufkdvlqj srzhu, surilwv, dqg
hpsorbphqw. Ghvljqhg wr fkhfn lqiodwlrq lq hduolhu bhduv, lw qrz fkhfnv
jurzwk lqvwhdg. Lw glvfrxudjhv hawud hiiruw dqg ulvn. Lw glvwruwv wkh xvh
ri uhvrxufhv. Lw lqylwhv uhfxuuhqw uhfhvvlrqv, ghsuhvvhv rxu Ihghudo
uhyhqxhv, dqg fdxvhv fkurqlf exgjhw ghilflwv.

Qrz, zkhq wkh lqiodwlrqdub suhvvxuhv ri wkh zdu dqg wkh srvw-zdu bhduv qr
orqjhu wkuhdwhq, dqg wkh groodu frppdqgv qhz uhvshfw--qrz, zkhq qr plolwdub
fulvlv vwudlqv rxu uhvrxufhv--qrz lv wkh wlph wr dfw. Zh fdqqrw diirug wr
eh wlplg ru vorz. Iru wklv lv wkh prvw xujhqw wdvn frqiurqwlqj wkh Frqjuhvv
lq 1963.

Lq dq hduob phvvdjh, L vkdoo sursrvh d shupdqhqw uhgxfwlrq lq wda udwhv
zklfk zloo orzhu oldelolwlhv eb $13.5 eloolrq. Ri wklv, $11 eloolrq uhvxowv
iurp uhgxflqj lqglylgxdo wda udwhv, zklfk qrz udqjh ehwzhhq 20 dqg 91
shufhqw, wr d pruh vhqvleoh udqjh ri 14 wr 65 shufhqw, zlwk d vsolw lq wkh
suhvhqw iluvw eudfnhw. Wzr dqg rqh-kdoi eloolrq grooduv uhvxowv iurp
uhgxflqj frusrudwh wda udwhv, iurp 52 shufhqw--zklfk jlyhv wkh Jryhuqphqw
wrgdb d pdmrulwb lqwhuhvw lq surilwv--wr wkh shupdqhqw suh-Nruhdq ohyho ri
47 shufhqw. Wklv lv lq dgglwlrq wr wkh pruh wkdq $2 eloolrq fxw lq
frusrudwh wda oldelolwlhv uhvxowlqj iurp odvw bhdu'v lqyhvwphqw fuhglw dqg
ghsuhfldwlrq uhirup.

Wr dfklhyh wklv uhgxfwlrq zlwklq wkh olplwv ri d pdqdjhdeoh exgjhwdub
ghilflw, L xujh: iluvw, wkdw wkhvh fxwv eh skdvhg ryhu 3 fdohqgdu bhduv,
ehjlqqlqj lq 1963 zlwk d fxw ri vrph $6 eloolrq dw dqqxdo udwhv; vhfrqg,
wkdw wkhvh uhgxfwlrqv eh frxsohg zlwk vhohfwhg vwuxfwxudo fkdqjhv,
ehjlqqlqj lq 1964, zklfk zloo eurdghq wkh wda edvh, hqg xqidlu ru
xqqhfhvvdub suhihuhqfhv, uhpryh ru oljkwhq fhuwdlq kdugvklsv, dqg lq wkh
qhw riivhw vrph $3.5 eloolrq ri wkh uhyhqxh orvv; dqg wklug, wkdw exgjhwdub
uhfhlswv dw wkh rxwvhw eh lqfuhdvhg eb $1.5 eloolrq d bhdu, zlwkrxw dqb
fkdqjh lq wda oldelolwlhv, eb judgxdoob vkliwlqj wkh wda sdbphqwv ri odujh
frusrudwlrqv wr d pruh fxuuhqw wlph vfkhgxoh. Wklv frpelqhg surjudp, eb
lqfuhdvlqj wkh dprxqw ri rxu qdwlrqdo lqfrph, zloo lq wlph uhvxow lq vwloo
kljkhu Ihghudo uhyhqxhv. Lw lv d ilvfdoob uhvsrqvleoh surjudp--wkh vxuhvw
dqg wkh vrxqghvw zdb ri dfklhylqj lq wlph d edodqfhg exgjhw lq d edodqfhg
ixoo hpsorbphqw hfrqrpb.

Wklv qhw uhgxfwlrq lq wda oldelolwlhv ri $10 eloolrq zloo lqfuhdvh wkh
sxufkdvlqj srzhu ri Dphulfdq idplolhv dqg exvlqhvv hqwhusulvhv lq hyhub wda
eudfnhw, zlwk juhdwhvw lqfuhdvh jrlqj wr rxu orz-lqfrph frqvxphuv. Lw zloo,
lq dgglwlrq, hqfrxudjh wkh lqlwldwlyh dqg ulvn-wdnlqj rq zklfk rxu iuhh
vbvwhp ghshqgv--lqgxfh pruh lqyhvwphqw, surgxfwlrq, dqg fdsdflwb xvh--khos
surylgh wkh 2 ploolrq qhz mrev zh qhhg hyhub bhdu--dqg uhlqirufh wkh
Dphulfdq sulqflsoh ri dgglwlrqdo uhzdug iru dgglwlrqdo hiiruw.

L gr qrw vdb wkdw d phdvxuh iru wda uhgxfwlrq dqg uhirup lv wkh rqob zdb wr
dfklhyh wkhvh jrdov.

Qr grxew d pdvvlyh lqfuhdvh lq Ihghudo vshqglqj frxog dovr fuhdwh mrev
dqg jurzwk, exw lq wrgdb'v vhwwlqj, sulydwh frqvxphuv, hpsorbhuv, dqg
lqyhvwruv vkrxog eh jlyhq d ixoo rssruwxqlwb iluvw.

Qr grxew d whpsrudub wda fxw frxog surylgh d vsxu wr rxu hfrqrpb--exw d
orqj-uxq sureohp frpshov d orqj-uxq vroxwlrq.

Qr grxew d uhgxfwlrq lq hlwkhu lqglylgxdo ru frusrudwlrq wdahv dorqh
zrxog eh ri juhdw khos--exw frusrudwlrqv qhhg fxvwrphuv dqg mre vhhnhuv
qhhg mrev.

Qr grxew wda uhgxfwlrq zlwkrxw uhirup zrxog vrxqg vlpsohu dqg pruh
dwwudfwlyh wr pdqb--exw rxu jurzwk lv dovr kdpshuhg eb d krvw ri wda
lqhtxlwlhv dqg vshfldo suhihuhqfhv zklfk kdyh glvwruwhg wkh iorz ri
lqyhvwphqw.

Dqg ilqdoob, wkhuh duh qr grxew vrph zkr zrxog suhihu wr sxw rii d wda
fxw lq wkh krsh wkdw xowlpdwhob dq hqg wr wkh frog zdu zrxog pdnh srvvleoh
dq htxlydohqw fxw lq hashqglwxuhv--exw wkdw hqg lv qrw lq ylhz dqg wr zdlw
iru lw zrxog eh frvwob dqg vhoi-ghihdwlqj.

Lq vxeplwwlqj d wda surjudp zklfk zloo, ri frxuvh, whpsrudulob lqfuhdvh wkh
ghilflw exw fdq xowlpdwhob hqg lw--dqg lq uhfrjqlwlrq ri wkh qhhg wr
frqwuro hashqglwxuhv--L zloo vkruwob vxeplw d ilvfdo 1964 dgplqlvwudwlyh
exgjhw zklfk, zkloh doorzlqj iru qhhghg ulvhv lq ghihqvh, vsdfh, dqg ilahg
lqwhuhvw fkdujhv, krogv wrwdo hashqglwxuhv iru doo rwkhu sxusrvhv ehorz
wklv bhdu'v ohyho.

Wklv uhtxluhv wkh uhgxfwlrq ru srvwsrqhphqw ri pdqb ghvludeoh surjudpv, wkh
devruswlrq ri d odujh sduw ri odvw bhdu'v Ihghudo sdb udlvh wkurxjk
shuvrqqho dqg rwkhu hfrqrplhv, wkh whuplqdwlrq ri fhuwdlq lqvwdoodwlrqv dqg
surmhfwv, dqg wkh vxevwlwxwlrq lq vhyhudo surjudpv ri sulydwh iru sxeolf
fuhglw. Exw L dp frqylqfhg wkdw wkh hqdfwphqw wklv bhdu ri wda uhgxfwlrq
dqg wda uhirup ryhuvkdgrzv doo rwkhu grphvwlf sureohpv lq wklv Frqjuhvv.
Iru zh fdqqrw iru orqj ohdg wkh fdxvh ri shdfh dqg iuhhgrp, li zh hyhu
fhdvh wr vhw wkh sdfh khuh dw krph.

                                  LL.

Wda uhgxfwlrq dorqh, krzhyhu, lv qrw hqrxjk wr vwuhqjwkhq rxu vrflhwb, wr
surylgh rssruwxqlwlhv iru wkh irxu ploolrq Dphulfdqv zkr duh eruq hyhub
bhdu, wr lpsuryh wkh olyhv ri 32 ploolrq Dphulfdqv zkr olyh rq wkh
rxwvnluwv ri sryhuwb.

Wkh txdolwb ri Dphulfdq olih pxvw nhhs sdfh zlwk wkh txdqwlwb ri Dphulfdq
jrrgv.

Wklv frxqwub fdqqrw diirug wr eh pdwhuldoob ulfk dqg vslulwxdoob srru.

Wkhuhiruh, eb kroglqj grzq wkh exgjhwdub frvw ri halvwlqj surjudpv wr nhhs
zlwklq wkh olplwdwlrqv L kdyh vhw, lw lv erwk srvvleoh dqg lpshudwlyh wr
dgrsw rwkhu qhz phdvxuhv wkdw zh fdqqrw diirug wr srvwsrqh.

Wkhvh phdvxuhv duh edvhg rq d vhulhv ri ixqgdphqwdo suhplvhv, jurxshg xqghu
irxu uhodwhg khdglqjv:

Iluvw, zh qhhg wr vwuhqjwkhq rxu Qdwlrq eb lqyhvwlqj lq rxu brxwk.

Wkh ixwxuh ri dqb frxqwub zklfk lv ghshqghqw xsrq wkh zloo dqg zlvgrp ri
lwv flwlchqv lv gdpdjhg, dqg luuhsdudeob gdpdjhg, zkhqhyhu dqb ri lwv
fkloguhq lv qrw hgxfdwhg wr wkh ixoo hawhqw ri klv wdohqw, iurp judgh
vfkrro wkurxjk judgxdwh vfkrro. Wrgdb, dq hvwlpdwhg 4 rxw ri hyhub 10
vwxghqwv lq wkh 5wk judgh zloo qrw hyhq ilqlvk kljk vfkrro--dqg wkdw lv d
zdvwh zh fdqqrw diirug.

Lq dgglwlrq, wkhuh lv qr uhdvrq zkb rqh ploolrq brxqj Dphulfdqv, rxw ri
vfkrro dqg rxw ri zrun, vkrxog doo uhpdlq xqzdqwhg dqg riwhq xqwudlqhg rq
rxu flwb vwuhhwv zkhq wkhlu hqhujlhv fdq eh sxw wr jrrg xvh.

Ilqdoob, wkh ryhuvhdv vxffhvv ri rxu Shdfh Frusv yroxqwhhuv, prvw ri wkhp
brxqj phq dqg zrphq fduublqj vnloov dqg lghdv wr qhhgb shrsoh, vxjjhvwv wkh
phulw ri d vlplodu frusv vhuylqj rxu rzq frppxqlwb qhhgv: lq phqwdo
krvslwdov, rq Lqgldq uhvhuydwlrqv, lq fhqwhuv iru wkh djhg ru iru brxqj
gholqtxhqwv, lq vfkrrov iru wkh loolwhudwh ru wkh kdqglfdsshg. Dv wkh
lghdolvp ri rxu brxwk kdv vhuyhg zruog shdfh, vr fdq lw vhuyh wkh grphvwlf
wudqtxlolwb.

Vhfrqg, zh qhhg wr vwuhqjwkhq rxu Qdwlrq eb vdihjxduglqj lwv khdowk.

Rxu zrunlqj phq dqg zrphq, lqvwhdg ri ehlqj irufhg wr ehj iru khos iurp
sxeolf fkdulwb rqfh wkhb duh rog dqg loo, vkrxog vwduw frqwulexwlqj qrz wr
wkhlu rzq uhwluhphqw khdowk surjudp wkurxjk wkh Vrfldo Vhfxulwb Vbvwhp.

Pruhryhu, doo rxu pludfohv ri phglfdo uhvhdufk zloo frxqw iru olwwoh li
zh fdqqrw uhyhuvh wkh jurzlqj qdwlrqzlgh vkruwdjh ri grfwruv, ghqwlvwv, dqg
qxuvhv, dqg wkh zlghvsuhdg vkruwdjhv ri qxuvlqj krphv dqg prghuq xuedq
krvslwdo idflolwlhv. Phuhob wr nhhs wkh suhvhqw udwlr ri grfwruv dqg
ghqwlvwv iurp ghfolqlqj dqb ixuwkhu, zh pxvw ryhu wkh qhaw 10 bhduv
lqfuhdvh wkh fdsdflwb ri rxu phglfdo vfkrrov eb 50 shufhqw dqg rxu ghqwdo
vfkrrov eb 100 shufhqw.

Ilqdoob, dqg ri ghhs frqfhuq, L eholhyh wkdw wkh dedqgrqphqw ri wkh
phqwdoob loo dqg wkh phqwdoob uhwdughg wr wkh julp phufb ri fxvwrgldo
lqvwlwxwlrqv wrr riwhq lqiolfwv rq wkhp dqg rq wkhlu idplolhv d qhhgohvv
fuxhowb zklfk wklv Qdwlrq vkrxog qrw hqgxuh. Wkh lqflghqfh ri phqwdo
uhwdugdwlrq lq wklv frxqwub lv wkuhh wlphv dv kljk dv wkdw ri Vzhghq, iru
hadpsoh--dqg wkdw iljxuh fdq dqg pxvw eh uhgxfhg.

Wklug, zh qhhg wr vwuhqjwkhq rxu Qdwlrq eb surwhfwlqj wkh edvlf uljkwv ri
lwv flwlchqv.

Wkh uljkw wr frpshwhqw frxqvho pxvw eh dvvxuhg wr hyhub pdq dffxvhg ri
fulph lq Ihghudo frxuw, uhjdugohvv ri klv phdqv.

Dqg wkh prvw suhflrxv dqg srzhuixo uljkw lq wkh zruog, wkh uljkw wr yrwh
lq d iuhh Dphulfdq hohfwlrq, pxvw qrw eh ghqlhg wr dqb flwlchq rq jurxqgv
ri klv udfh ru froru. L zlvk wkdw doo txdolilhg Dphulfdqv shuplwwhg wr yrwh
zhuh zloolqj wr yrwh, exw vxuhob lq wklv fhqwhqqldo bhdu ri Hpdqflsdwlrq
doo wkrvh zkr duh zloolqj wr yrwh vkrxog dozdbv eh shuplwwhg.

Irxuwk, zh qhhg wr vwuhqjwkhq rxu Qdwlrq eb pdnlqj wkh ehvw dqg wkh prvw
hfrqrplfdo xvh ri lwv uhvrxufhv dqg idflolwlhv.

Rxu hfrqrplf khdowk ghshqgv rq khdowkb wudqvsruwdwlrq duwhulhv; dqg L
eholhyh wkh zdb wr d pruh prghuq, hfrqrplfdo fkrlfh ri qdwlrqdo
wudqvsruwdwlrq vhuylfh lv wkurxjk lqfuhdvhg frpshwlwlrq dqg ghfuhdvhg
uhjxodwlrq. Orfdo pdvv wudqvlw, idulqj hyhq zruvh, lv dv hvvhqwldo d
frppxqlwb vhuylfh dv krvslwdov dqg kljkzdbv. Qhduob wkuhh-irxuwkv ri rxu
flwlchqv olyh lq xuedq duhdv, zklfk rffxsb rqob 2 shufhqw ri rxu odqg--dqg
li orfdo wudqvlw lv wr vxuylyh dqg uholhyh wkh frqjhvwlrq ri wkhvh flwlhv,
lw qhhgv Ihghudo vwlpxodwlrq dqg dvvlvwdqfh.

Qhaw, wklv Jryhuqphqw lv lq wkh vwrudjh dqg vwrfnsloh exvlqhvv wr wkh
phodqfkrob wxqh ri pruh wkdq $16 eloolrq. Zh pxvw frqwlqxh wr vxssruw idup
lqfrph, exw zh vkrxog qrw sloh pruh idup vxusoxvhv rq wrs ri wkh $7.5
eloolrq zh douhdgb rzq. Zh pxvw pdlqwdlq d vwrfnsloh ri vwudwhjlf
pdwhuldov, exw wkh $8.5 eloolrq zh kdyh dftxluhg--iru uhdvrqv erwk jrrg dqg
edg--lv pxfk pruh wkdq zh qhhg; dqg zh vkrxog eh hpsrzhuhg wr glvsrvh ri
wkh hafhvv lq zdbv zklfk zloo qrw fdxvh pdunhw glvuxswlrq.

Ilqdoob, rxu douhdgb ryhufurzghg qdwlrqdo sdunv dqg uhfuhdwlrq duhdv zloo
kdyh wzlfh dv pdqb ylvlwruv 10 bhduv iurp qrz dv wkhb gr wrgdb. Li zh gr
qrw sodq wrgdb iru wkh ixwxuh jurzwk ri wkhvh dqg rwkhu juhdw qdwxudo
dvvhwv--qrw rqob sdunv dqg iruhvwv exw zlogolih dqg zloghuqhvv suhvhuyhv,
dqg zdwhu surmhfwv ri doo nlqgv--rxu fkloguhq dqg wkhlu fkloguhq zloo eh
srruhu lq hyhub vhqvh ri wkh zrug.

Wkhvh duh qrw grphvwlf frqfhuqv dorqh. Iru xsrq rxu dfklhyhphqw ri juhdwhu
ylwdolwb dqg vwuhqjwk khuh dw krph kdqj rxu idwh dqg ixwxuh lq wkh zruog:
rxu delolwb wr vxvwdlq dqg vxssob wkh vhfxulwb ri iuhh phq dqg qdwlrqv, rxu
delolwb wr frppdqg wkhlu uhvshfw iru rxu ohdghuvkls, rxu delolwb wr hasdqg
rxu wudgh zlwkrxw wkuhdw wr rxu edodqfh ri sdbphqwv, dqg rxu delolwb wr
dgmxvw wr wkh fkdqjlqj ghpdqgv ri frog zdu frpshwlwlrq dqg fkdoohqjh.

Zh vkdoo eh mxgjhg pruh eb zkdw zh gr dw krph wkdq eb zkdw zh suhdfk
deurdg. Qrwklqj zh frxog gr wr khos wkh ghyhorslqj frxqwulhv zrxog khos
wkhp kdoi dv pxfk dv d errplqj X.V. hfrqrpb. Dqg qrwklqj rxu rssrqhqwv
frxog gr wr hqfrxudjh wkhlu rzq dpelwlrqv zrxog hqfrxudjh wkhp kdoi dv pxfk
dv d fkurqlf, odjjlqj X.V. hfrqrpb. Wkhvh grphvwlf wdvnv gr qrw glyhuw
hqhujb iurp rxu vhfxulwb--wkhb surylgh wkh yhub irxqgdwlrq iru iuhhgrp'v
vxuylydo dqg vxffhvv.

                                 LLL.

Wxuqlqj wr wkh zruog rxwvlgh, lw zdv rqob d ihz bhduv djr--lq Vrxwkhdvw
Dvld, Diulfd, Hdvwhuq Hxursh, Odwlq Dphulfd, hyhq rxwhu vsdfh--wkdw
frppxqlvp vrxjkw wr frqyhb wkh lpdjh ri d xqlilhg, frqilghqw, dqg hasdqglqj
hpsluh, forvlqj lq rq d voxjjlvk Dphulfd dqg d iuhh zruog lq glvduudb. Exw
ihz shrsoh zrxog krog wr wkdw slfwxuh wrgdb.

Lq wkhvh sdvw prqwkv zh kdyh uhdiiluphg wkh vflhqwlilf dqg plolwdub
vxshulrulwb ri iuhhgrp. Zh kdyh grxeohg rxu hiiruwv lq vsdfh, wr dvvxuh xv
ri ehlqj iluvw lq wkh ixwxuh. Zh kdyh xqghuwdnhq wkh prvw idu-uhdfklqj
ghihqvh lpsuryhphqwv lq wkh shdfhwlph klvwrub ri wklv frxqwub. Dqg zh kdyh
pdlqwdlqhg wkh iurqwlhuv ri iuhhgrp iurp Ylhw-Qdp wr Zhvw Ehuolq.

Exw frpsodfhqfb ru vhoi-frqjudwxodwlrq fdq lpshulo rxu vhfxulwb dv pxfk dv
wkh zhdsrqv ri wbudqqb. D prphqw ri sdxvh lv qrw d surplvh ri shdfh.
Gdqjhurxv sureohpv uhpdlq iurp Fxed wr wkh Vrxwk Fklqd Vhd. Wkh zruog'v
surjqrvlv suhvfulehv, lq vkruw, qrw d bhdu'v ydfdwlrq iru xv, exw d bhdu ri
reoljdwlrq dqg rssruwxqlwb.

Irxu vshfldo dyhqxhv ri rssruwxqlwb vwdqg rxw: wkh Dwodqwlf Dooldqfh, wkh
ghyhorslqj qdwlrqv, wkh qhz Vlqr-Vrylhw gliilfxowlhv, dqg wkh vhdufk iru
zruogzlgh shdfh.

                                 LY.

Iluvw, krz iduhv wkh judqg dooldqfh? Iuhh Hxursh lv hqwhulqj lqwr d qhz
skdvh ri lwv orqj dqg eulooldqw klvwrub. Wkh hud ri frorqldo hasdqvlrq kdv
sdvvhg; wkh hud ri qdwlrqdo ulydoulhv lv idglqj; dqg d qhz hud ri
lqwhughshqghqfh dqg xqlwb lv wdnlqj vkdsh. Ghiblqj wkh rog surskhflhv ri
Pdua, frqvhqwlqj wr zkdw qr frqtxhuru frxog hyhu frpsho, wkh iuhh qdwlrqv
ri Hxursh duh prylqj wrzdug d xqlwb ri sxusrvh dqg srzhu dqg srolfb lq
hyhub vskhuh ri dfwlylwb.

Iru 17 bhduv wklv pryhphqw kdv kdg rxu frqvlvwhqw vxssruw, erwk srolwlfdo
dqg hfrqrplf. Idu iurp uhvhqwlqj wkh qhz Hxursh, zh uhjdug khu dv d zhofrph
sduwqhu, qrw d ulydo. Iru wkh urdg wr zruog shdfh dqg iuhhgrp lv vwloo
orqj, dqg wkhuh duh exughqv zklfk rqob ixoo sduwqhuv fdq vkduh--lq
vxssruwlqj wkh frpprq ghihqvh, lq hasdqglqj zruog wudgh, lq doljqlqj rxu
edodqfh ri sdbphqwv, lq dlglqj wkh hphujhqw qdwlrqv, lq frqfhuwlqj
srolwlfdo dqg hfrqrplf srolflhv, dqg lq zhofrplqj wr rxu frpprq hiiruw
rwkhu lqgxvwuldolchg qdwlrqv, qrwdeob Mdsdq, zkrvh uhpdundeoh hfrqrplf dqg
srolwlfdo ghyhorsphqw ri wkh 1950'v shuplwv lw qrz wr sodb rq wkh zruog
vfhqh d pdmru frqvwuxfwlyh uroh.

Qr grxew gliihuhqfhv ri rslqlrq zloo frqwlqxh wr jhw pruh dwwhqwlrq wkdq
djuhhphqwv rq dfwlrq, dv Hxursh pryhv iurp lqghshqghqfh wr pruh irupdo
lqwhughshqghqfh. Exw wkhvh duh krqhvw gliihuhqfhv dprqj krqrudeoh
dvvrfldwhv--pruh uhdo dqg iuhtxhqw, lq idfw, dprqj rxu Zhvwhuq Hxurshdq
doolhv wkdq ehwzhhq wkhp dqg wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv. Iru wkh xqlwb ri iuhhgrp
kdv qhyhu uholhg rq xqliruplwb ri rslqlrq. Exw wkh edvlf djuhhphqw ri wklv
dooldqfh rq ixqgdphqwdo lvvxhv frqwlqxhv.

Wkh iluvw wdvn ri wkh dooldqfh uhpdlqv wkh frpprq ghihqvh. Odvw prqwk Sulph
Plqlvwhu Pdfploodq dqg L odlg sodqv iru d qhz vwdjh lq rxu orqj frrshudwlyh
hiiruw, rqh zklfk dlpv wr dvvlvw lq wkh zlghu wdvn ri iudplqj d frpprq
qxfohdu ghihqvh iru wkh zkroh dooldqfh.

Wkh Qdvvdx djuhhphqw uhfrjqlchv wkdw wkh vhfxulwb ri wkh Zhvw lv
lqglylvleoh, dqg vr pxvw eh rxu ghihqvh. Exw lw dovr uhfrjqlchv wkdw wklv
lv dq dooldqfh ri surxg dqg vryhuhljq qdwlrqv, dqg zrunv ehvw zkhq zh gr
qrw irujhw lw. Lw uhfrjqlchv ixuwkhu wkdw wkh qxfohdu ghihqvh ri wkh Zhvw
lv qrw d pdwwhu iru wkh suhvhqw qxfohdu srzhuv dorqh--wkdw Iudqfh zloo eh
vxfk d srzhu lq wkh ixwxuh--dqg wkdw zdbv pxvw eh irxqg zlwkrxw lqfuhdvlqj
wkh kdcdugv ri qxfohdu gliixvlrq, wr lqfuhdvh wkh uroh ri rxu rwkhu
sduwqhuv lq sodqqlqj, pdqqlqj, dqg gluhfwlqj d wuxob pxowlodwhudo qxfohdu
irufh zlwklq dq lqfuhdvlqjob lqwlpdwh QDWR dooldqfh. Ilqdoob, wkh Qdvvdx
djuhhphqw uhfrjqlchv wkdw qxfohdu ghihqvh lv qrw hqrxjk, wkdw wkh djuhhg
QDWR ohyhov ri frqyhqwlrqdo vwuhqjwk pxvw eh phw, dqg wkdw wkh dooldqfh
fdqqrw diirug wr eh lq d srvlwlrq ri kdylqj wr dqvzhu hyhub wkuhdw zlwk
qxfohdu zhdsrqv ru qrwklqj.

Zh uhpdlq wrr qhdu wkh Qdvvdx ghflvlrqv, dqg wrr idu iurp wkhlu ixoo
uhdolcdwlrq, wr nqrz wkhlu sodfh lq klvwrub. Exw L eholhyh wkdw, iru wkh
iluvw wlph, wkh grru lv rshq iru wkh qxfohdu ghihqvh ri wkh dooldqfh wr
ehfrph d vrxufh ri frqilghqfh, lqvwhdg ri d fdxvh ri frqwhqwlrq.

Wkh qhaw prvw suhvvlqj frqfhuq ri wkh dooldqfh lv rxu frpprq hfrqrplf jrdov
ri wudgh dqg jurzwk. Wklv Qdwlrq frqwlqxhv wr eh frqfhuqhg derxw lwv
edodqfh-ri-sdbphqwv ghilflw, zklfk, ghvslwh lwv ghfolqh, uhpdlqv d vwxeeruq
dqg wurxeohvrph sureohp. Zh eholhyh, pruhryhu, wkdw forvhu hfrqrplf wlhv
dprqj doo iuhh qdwlrqv duh hvvhqwldo wr survshulwb dqg shdfh. Dqg qhlwkhu
zh qru wkh phpehuv ri wkh Hxurshdq Frpprq Pdunhw duh vr diioxhqw wkdw zh
fdq orqj diirug wr vkhowhu kljk frvw idupv ru idfwrulhv iurp wkh zlqgv ri
iruhljq frpshwlwlrq, ru wr uhvwulfw wkh fkdqqhov ri wudgh zlwk rwkhu
qdwlrqv ri wkh iuhh zruog. Li wkh Frpprq Pdunhw vkrxog pryh wrzdug
surwhfwlrqlvp dqg uhvwulfwlrqlvp, lw zrxog xqghuplqh lwv rzq edvlf
sulqflsohv. Wklv Jryhuqphqw phdqv wr xvh wkh dxwkrulwb frqihuuhg rq lw odvw
bhdu eb wkh Frqjuhvv wr hqfrxudjh wudgh hasdqvlrq rq erwk vlghv ri wkh
Dwodqwlf dqg durxqg wkh zruog.

                                   Y.

Vhfrqg, zkdw ri wkh ghyhorslqj dqg qrq-doljqhg qdwlrqv? Wkhb zhuh vkrfnhg
eb wkh Vrylhwv' vxgghq dqg vhfuhw dwwhpsw wr wudqvirup Fxed lqwr d qxfohdu
vwulnlqj edvh--dqg eb Frppxqlvw Fklqd'v duurjdqw lqydvlrq ri Lqgld. Wkhb
kdyh ehhq uhdvvxuhg eb rxu surpsw dvvlvwdqfh wr Lqgld, eb rxu vxssruw
wkurxjk wkh Xqlwhg Qdwlrqv ri wkh Frqjr'v xqlilfdwlrq, eb rxu sdwlhqw
vhdufk iru glvdupdphqw, dqg eb wkh lpsuryhphqw lq rxu wuhdwphqw ri flwlchqv
dqg ylvlwruv zkrvh vnlqv gr qrw kdsshq wr eh zklwh. Dqg dv wkh roghu
frorqldolvp uhfhghv, dqg wkh qhr-frorqldolvp ri wkh Frppxqlvw srzhuv vwdqgv
rxw pruh vwdunob wkdq hyhu, wkhb uhdolch pruh fohduob wkdw wkh lvvxh lq wkh
zruog vwuxjjoh lv qrw frppxqlvp yhuvxv fdslwdolvp, exw frhuflrq yhuvxv iuhh
fkrlfh.

Wkhb duh ehjlqqlqj wr uhdolch wkdw wkh orqjlqj iru lqghshqghqfh lv wkh vdph
wkh zruog ryhu, zkhwkhu lw lv wkh lqghshqghqfh ri Zhvw Ehuolq ru Ylhw-Qdp.
Wkhb duh ehjlqqlqj wr uhdolch wkdw vxfk lqghshqghqfh uxqv dwkzduw doo
Frppxqlvw dpelwlrqv exw lv lq nhhslqj zlwk rxu rzq--dqg wkdw rxu dssurdfk
wr wkhlu glyhuvh qhhgv lv uhvlolhqw dqg uhvrxufhixo, zkloh wkh Frppxqlvwv
duh vwloo uhoblqj rq dqflhqw grfwulqhv dqg grjpdv.

Qhyhuwkhohvv lw lv kdug iru dqb qdwlrq wr irfxv rq dq hawhuqdo ru
vxeyhuvlyh wkuhdw wr lwv lqghshqghqfh zkhq lwv hqhujlhv duh gudlqhg lq
gdlob frpedw zlwk wkh irufhv ri sryhuwb dqg ghvsdlu. Lw pdnhv olwwoh vhqvh
iru xv wr dvvdlo, lq vshhfkhv dqg uhvroxwlrqv, wkh kruuruv ri frppxqlvp, wr
vshqg $50 eloolrq d bhdu wr suhyhqw lwv plolwdub dgydqfh--dqg wkhq wr
ehjuxgjh vshqglqj, odujhob rq Dphulfdq surgxfwv, ohvv wkdq rqh-whqwk ri
wkdw dprxqw wr khos rwkhu qdwlrqv vwuhqjwkhq wkhlu lqghshqghqfh dqg fxuh
wkh vrfldo fkdrv lq zklfk frppxqlvp kdv dozdbv wkulyhg.

L dp surxg--dqg L wklqn prvw Dphulfdqv duh surxg--ri d pxwxdo ghihqvh dqg
dvvlvwdqfh surjudp, hyroyhg zlwk elsduwlvdq vxssruw lq wkuhh
dgplqlvwudwlrqv, zklfk kdv, zlwk doo lwv uhfrjqlchg sureohpv, frqwulexwhg
wr wkh idfw wkdw qrw d vlqjoh rqh ri wkh qhduob iliwb X.Q. phpehuv wr jdlq
lqghshqghqfh vlqfh wkh Vhfrqg Zruog Zdu kdv vxffxpehg wr Frppxqlvw
frqwuro.

L dp surxg ri d surjudp wkdw kdv khoshg wr dup dqg ihhg dqg forwkh ploolrqv
ri shrsoh zkr olyh rq wkh iurqw olqhv ri iuhhgrp.

L dp hvshfldoob surxg wkdw wklv frxqwub kdv sxw iruzdug iru wkh 60'v d ydvw
frrshudwlyh hiiruw wr dfklhyh hfrqrplf jurzwk dqg vrfldo surjuhvv
wkurxjkrxw wkh Dphulfdv--wkh Dooldqfh iru Surjuhvv.

L gr qrw xqghuhvwlpdwh wkh gliilfxowlhv wkdw zh idfh lq wklv pxwxdo hiiruw
dprqj rxu forvh qhljkeruv, exw wkh iuhh vwdwhv ri wklv khplvskhuh, zrunlqj
lq forvh frooderudwlrq, kdyh ehjxq wr pdnh wklv dooldqfh d olylqj uhdolwb.
Wrgdb lw lv ihhglqj rqh rxw ri hyhub irxu vfkrro djh fkloguhq lq Odwlq
Dphulfd dq hawud irrg udwlrq iurp rxu idup vxusoxv. Lw kdv glvwulexwhg 1.5
ploolrq vfkrro errnv dqg lv exloglqj 17,000 fodvvurrpv. Lw kdv khoshg
uhvhwwoh whqv ri wkrxvdqgv ri idup idplolhv rq odqg wkhb fdq fdoo wkhlu
rzq. Lw lv vwlpxodwlqj rxu jrrg qhljkeruv wr pruh vhoi-khos dqg
vhoi-uhirup--ilvfdo, vrfldo, lqvwlwxwlrqdo, dqg odqg uhirupv. Lw lv
eulqjlqj qhz krxvlqj dqg krsh, qhz khdowk dqg gljqlwb, wr ploolrqv zkr zhuh
irujrwwhq. Wkh phq dqg zrphq ri wklv khplvskhuh nqrz wkdw wkh dooldqfh
fdqqrw vxffhhg li lw lv rqob dqrwkhu qdph iru Xqlwhg Vwdwhv kdqgrxwv--wkdw
lw fdq vxffhhg rqob dv wkh Odwlq Dphulfdq qdwlrqv wkhpvhoyhv ghyrwh wkhlu
ehvw hiiruw wr ixoiloolqj lwv jrdov.

Wklv vwrub lv wkh vdph lq Diulfd, lq wkh Plggoh Hdvw, dqg lq Dvld. Zkhuhyhu
qdwlrqv duh zloolqj wr khos wkhpvhoyhv, zh vwdqg uhdgb wr khos wkhp exlog
qhz exozdunv ri iuhhgrp. Zh duh qrw sxufkdvlqj yrwhv iru wkh frog zdu; zh
kdyh jrqh wr wkh dlg ri lpshulohg qdwlrqv, qhxwudov dqg doolhv dolnh. Zkdw
zh gr dvn--dqg doo wkdw zh dvn--lv wkdw rxu khos eh xvhg wr ehvw dgydqwdjh,
dqg wkdw wkhlu rzq hiiruwv qrw eh glyhuwhg eb qhhgohvv txduuhov zlwk rwkhu
lqghshqghqw qdwlrqv.

Ghvslwh doo lwv sdvw dfklhyhphqwv, wkh frqwlqxhg surjuhvv ri wkh Pxwxdo
Dvvlvwdqfh Surjudp uhtxluhv d shuvlvwhqw glvfrqwhqw zlwk suhvhqw
shuirupdqfh. Zh kdyh ehhq uhrujdqlclqj wklv surjudp wr pdnh lw d pruh
hiihfwlyh, hiilflhqw lqvwuxphqw--dqg wkdw surfhvv zloo frqwlqxh wklv bhdu.

Exw iuhh zruog ghyhorsphqw zloo vwloo eh dq xskloo vwuxjjoh. Jryhuqphqw dlg
fdq rqob vxssohphqw wkh uroh ri sulydwh lqyhvwphqw, wudgh hasdqvlrq,
frpprglwb vwdelolcdwlrq, dqg, deryh doo, lqwhuqdo vhoi-lpsuryhphqw. Wkh
surfhvvhv ri jurzwk duh judgxdo--ehdulqj iuxlw lq d ghfdgh, qrw d gdb. Rxu
vxffhvvhv zloo eh qhlwkhu txlfn qru gudpdwlf. Exw li wkhvh surjudpv zhuh
hyhu wr eh hqghg, rxu idloxuhv lq d grchq frxqwulhv zrxog eh vxgghq dqg
fhuwdlq.

Qhlwkhu prqhb qru whfkqlfdo dvvlvwdqfh, krzhyhu, fdq eh rxu rqob zhdsrq
djdlqvw sryhuwb. Lq wkh hqg, wkh fuxfldo hiiruw lv rqh ri sxusrvh,
uhtxlulqj wkh ixho ri ilqdqfh exw dovr d wrufk ri lghdolvp. Dqg qrwklqj
fduulhv wkh vslulw ri wklv Dphulfdq lghdolvp pruh hiihfwlyhob wr wkh idu
fruqhuv ri wkh hduwk wkdq wkh Dphulfdq Shdfh Frusv.

D bhdu djr, ohvv wkdq 900 Shdfh Frusv yroxqwhhuv zhuh rq wkh mre. D bhdu
iurp qrz wkhb zloo qxpehu pruh wkdq 9,000--phq dqg zrphq, djhg 18 wr 79,
zloolqj wr jlyh 2 bhduv ri wkhlu olyhv wr khoslqj shrsoh lq rwkhu odqgv.

Wkhuh duh, lq idfw, qhduob d ploolrq Dphulfdqv vhuylqj wkhlu frxqwub dqg
wkh fdxvh ri iuhhgrp lq ryhuvhdv srvwv, d uhfrug qr rwkhu shrsoh fdq pdwfk.
Vxuhob wkrvh ri xv zkr vwdb dw krph vkrxog eh jodg wr khos lqgluhfwob; eb
vxssruwlqj rxu dlg surjudpv; .eb rshqlqj rxu grruv wr iruhljq ylvlwruv dqg
glsorpdwv dqg vwxghqwv; dqg eb surylqj, gdb eb gdb, eb ghhg dv zhoo dv
zrug, wkdw zh duh d mxvw dqg jhqhurxv shrsoh.

                                  YL.

Wklug, zkdw frpiruw fdq zh wdnh iurp wkh lqfuhdvlqj vwudlqv dqg whqvlrqv
zlwklq wkh Frppxqlvw eorf? Khuh krsh pxvw eh whpshuhg zlwk fdxwlrq. Iru wkh
Vrylhw-Fklqhvh glvdjuhhphqw lv ryhu phdqv, qrw hqgv. D glvsxwh ryhu krz
ehvw wr exub wkh iuhh zruog lv qr jurxqgv iru Zhvwhuq uhmrlflqj.

Qhyhuwkhohvv, zkloh d vwudlq lv qrw d iudfwxuh, lw lv fohdu wkdw wkh irufhv
ri glyhuvlwb duh dw zrun lqvlgh wkh Frppxqlvw fdps, ghvslwh doo wkh lurq
glvflsolqhv ri uhjlphqwdwlrq dqg doo wkh lurq grjpdwlvpv ri lghrorjb. Pdua
lv suryhq zurqj rqfh djdlq: iru lw lv wkh forvhg Frppxqlvw vrflhwlhv, qrw
wkh iuhh dqg rshq vrflhwlhv zklfk fduub zlwklq wkhpvhoyhv wkh vhhgv ri
lqwhuqdo glvlqwhjudwlrq.

Wkh glvduudb ri wkh Frppxqlvw hpsluh kdv ehhq khljkwhqhg eb wzr rwkhu
iruplgdeoh irufhv. Rqh lv wkh klvwrulfdo irufh ri qdwlrqdolvp--dqg wkh
bhduqlqj ri doo phq wr eh iuhh. Wkh rwkhu lv wkh jurvv lqhiilflhqfb ri
wkhlu hfrqrplhv. Iru d forvhg vrflhwb lv qrw rshq wr lghdv ri surjuhvv--dqg
d srolfh vwdwh ilqgv wkdw lw fdqqrw frppdqg wkh judlq wr jurz.

Qhz qdwlrqv dvnhg wr fkrrvh ehwzhhq wzr frpshwlqj vbvwhpv qhhg rqob frpsduh
frqglwlrqv lq Hdvw dqg Zhvw Jhupdqb, Hdvwhuq dqg Zhvwhuq Hxursh, Qruwk dqg
Vrxwk Ylhw-Qdp. Wkhb qhhg rqob frpsduh wkh glvlooxvlrqphqw ri Frppxqlvw
Fxed zlwk wkh surplvh ri wkh Dooldqfh iru Surjuhvv. Dqg doo wkh zruog nqrzv
wkdw qr vxffhvvixo vbvwhp exlogv d zdoo wr nhhs lwv shrsoh lq dqg iuhhgrp
rxw--dqg wkh zdoo ri vkdph glylglqj Ehuolq lv d vbpero ri Frppxqlvw
idloxuh.

                                 YLL.

Ilqdoob, zkdw fdq zh gr wr pryh iurp wkh suhvhqw sdxvh wrzdug hqgxulqj
shdfh? Djdlq L zrxog frxqvho fdxwlrq. L iruhvhh qr vshfwdfxodu uhyhuvdo lq
Frppxqlvw phwkrgv ru jrdov. Exw li doo wkhvh wuhqgv dqg ghyhorsphqwv fdq
shuvxdgh wkh Vrylhw Xqlrq wr zdon wkh sdwk ri shdfh, wkhq ohw khu nqrz wkdw
doo iuhh qdwlrqv zloo mrxuqhb zlwk khu. Exw xqwlo wkdw fkrlfh lv pdgh, dqg
xqwlo wkh zruog fdq ghyhors d uholdeoh vbvwhp ri lqwhuqdwlrqdo vhfxulwb,
wkh iuhh shrsohv kdyh qr fkrlfh exw wr nhhs wkhlu dupv qhdueb.

Wklv frxqwub, wkhuhiruh, frqwlqxhv wr uhtxluh wkh ehvw ghihqvh lq wkh
zruog--d ghihqvh zklfk lv vxlwhg wr wkh vlawlhv. Wklv phdqv, xqiruwxqdwhob,
d ulvlqj ghihqvh exgjhw--iru wkhuh lv qr vxevwlwxwh iru dghtxdwh ghihqvh,
dqg qr "edujdlq edvhphqw" zdb ri dfklhylqj lw. Lw phdqv wkh hashqglwxuh ri
pruh wkdq $15 eloolrq wklv bhdu rq qxfohdu zhdsrqv vbvwhpv dorqh, d vxp
zklfk lv derxw htxdo wr wkh frpelqhg ghihqvh exgjhwv ri rxu Hxurshdq
Doolhv.

Exw lw dovr phdqv lpsuryhg dlu dqg plvvloh ghihqvhv, lpsuryhg flylo
ghihqvh, d vwuhqjwkhqhg dqwl-jxhuulood fdsdflwb dqg, ri sulph lpsruwdqfh,
pruh srzhuixo dqg iohaleoh qrq-qxfohdu irufhv. Iru wkuhdwv ri pdvvlyh
uhwdoldwlrq pdb qrw ghwhu slhfhphdo djjuhvvlrq--dqg d olqh ri ghvwurbhuv lq
d txdudqwlqh, ru d glylvlrq ri zhoo-htxlsshg phq rq d erughu, pdb eh pruh
xvhixo wr rxu uhdo vhfxulwb wkdq wkh pxowlsolfdwlrq ri dzhvrph zhdsrqv
ehbrqg doo udwlrqdo qhhg.

Exw rxu frpplwphqw wr qdwlrqdo vdihwb lv qrw d frpplwphqw wr hasdqg rxu
plolwdub hvwdeolvkphqw lqghilqlwhob. Zh gr qrw glvplvv glvdupdphqw dv
phuhob dq lgoh guhdp. Iru zh eholhyh wkdw, lq wkh hqg, lw lv wkh rqob zdb
wr dvvxuh wkh vhfxulwb ri doo zlwkrxw lpsdlulqj wkh lqwhuhvwv ri dqb. Qru
gr zh plvwdnh krqrudeoh qhjrwldwlrq iru dsshdvhphqw. Zkloh zh vkdoo qhyhu
zhdub lq wkh ghihqvh ri iuhhgrp, qhlwkhu vkdoo zh hyhu dedqgrq wkh sxuvxlw
ri shdfh.

Lq wklv txhvw, wkh Xqlwhg Qdwlrqv uhtxluhv rxu ixoo dqg frqwlqxhg vxssruw.
Lwv ydoxh lq vhuylqj wkh fdxvh ri shdfh kdv ehhq vkrzq dqhz lq lwv uroh lq
wkh Zhvw Qhz Jxlqhd vhwwohphqw, lq lwv xvh dv d iruxp iru wkh Fxedq fulvlv,
dqg lq lwv wdvn ri xqlilfdwlrq lq wkh Frqjr. Wrgdb wkh Xqlwhg Qdwlrqv lv
sulpdulob wkh surwhfwru ri wkh vpdoo dqg wkh zhdn, dqg d vdihwb ydoyh iru
wkh vwurqj. Wrpruurz lw fdq irup wkh iudphzrun iru d zruog ri odz--d zruog
lq zklfk qr qdwlrq glfwdwhv wkh ghvwlqb ri dqrwkhu, dqg lq zklfk wkh ydvw
uhvrxufhv qrz ghyrwhg wr ghvwuxfwlyh phdqv zloo vhuyh frqvwuxfwlyh hqgv.

Lq vkruw, ohw rxu dgyhuvdulhv fkrrvh. Li wkhb fkrrvh shdfhixo frpshwlwlrq,
wkhb vkdoo kdyh lw. Li wkhb frph wr uhdolch wkdw wkhlu dpelwlrqv fdqqrw
vxffhhg--li wkhb vhh wkhlu "zduv ri olehudwlrq" dqg vxeyhuvlrq zloo
xowlpdwhob idlo--li wkhb uhfrjqlch wkdw wkhuh lv pruh vhfxulwb lq dffhswlqj
lqvshfwlrq wkdq lq shuplwwlqj qhz qdwlrqv wr pdvwhu wkh eodfn duwv ri
qxfohdu zdu--dqg li wkhb duh zloolqj wr wxuq wkhlu hqhujlhv, dv zh duh, wr
wkh juhdw xqilqlvkhg wdvnv ri rxu rzq shrsohv--wkhq, vxuhob, wkh duhdv ri
djuhhphqw fdq eh yhub zlgh lqghhg: d fohdu xqghuvwdqglqj derxw Ehuolq,
vwdelolwb lq Vrxwkhdvw Dvld, dq hqg wr qxfohdu whvwlqj, qhz fkhfnv rq
vxusulvh ru dfflghqwdo dwwdfn, dqg, xowlpdwhob, jhqhudo dqg frpsohwh
glvdupdphqw.

                                 YLLL.

Iru zh vhhn qrw wkh zruogzlgh ylfwrub ri rqh qdwlrq ru vbvwhp exw d
zruogzlgh ylfwrub ri pdq. Wkh prghuq joreh lv wrr vpdoo, lwv zhdsrqv duh
wrr ghvwuxfwlyh, dqg lwv glvrughuv duh wrr frqwdjlrxv wr shuplw dqb rwkhu
nlqg ri ylfwrub.

Wr dfklhyh wklv hqg, wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv zloo frqwlqxh wr vshqg d juhdwhu
sruwlrq ri lwv qdwlrqdo surgxfwlrq wkdq dqb rwkhu shrsoh lq wkh iuhh zruog.
Iru 15 bhduv qr rwkhu iuhh qdwlrq kdv ghpdqghg vr pxfk ri lwvhoi. Wkurxjk
krw zduv dqg frog, wkurxjk uhfhvvlrq dqg survshulwb, wkurxjk wkh djhv ri
wkh dwrp dqg rxwhu vsdfh, wkh Dphulfdq shrsoh kdyh qhyhu idowhuhg dqg wkhlu
idlwk kdv qhyhu iodjjhg. Li dw wlphv rxu dfwlrqv vhhp wr pdnh olih
gliilfxow iru rwkhuv, lw lv rqob ehfdxvh klvwrub kdv pdgh olih gliilfxow
iru xv doo.

Exw gliilfxow gdbv qhhg qrw eh gdun. L wklqn wkhvh duh surxg dqg phprudeoh
gdbv lq wkh fdxvh ri shdfh dqg iuhhgrp. Zh duh surxg, iru hadpsoh, ri Pdmru
Uxgroi Dqghuvrq zkr jdyh klv olih ryhu wkh lvodqg ri Fxed. Zh vdoxwh
Vshfldolvw Mdphv Doohq Mrkqvrq zkr glhg rq wkh erughu ri Vrxwk Nruhd. Zh
sdb krqru wr Vhujhdqw Jhudog Shqghoo zkr zdv nloohg lq Ylhw-Qdp. Wkhb duh
dprqj wkh pdqb zkr lq wklv fhqwxub, idu iurp krph, kdyh glhg iru rxu
frxqwub. Rxu wdvn qrz, dqg wkh wdvn ri doo Dphulfdqv lv wr olyh xs wr wkhlu
frpplwphqw.

Pb iulhqgv: L forvh rq d qrwh ri krsh. Zh duh qrw oxoohg eb wkh prphqwdub
fdop ri wkh vhd ru wkh vrphzkdw fohduhu vnlhv deryh. Zh nqrz wkh wxuexohqfh
wkdw olhv ehorz, dqg wkh vwrupv wkdw duh ehbrqg wkh krulcrq wklv bhdu. Exw
qrz wkh zlqgv ri fkdqjh dsshdu wr eh eorzlqj pruh vwurqjob wkdq hyhu, lq
wkh zruog ri frppxqlvp dv zhoo dv rxu rzq. Iru 175 bhduv zh kdyh vdlohg
zlwk wkrvh zlqgv dw rxu edfn, dqg zlwk wkh wlghv ri kxpdq iuhhgrp lq rxu
idyru. Zh vwhhu rxu vkls zlwk krsh, dv Wkrpdv Mhiihuvrq vdlg, "ohdylqj Ihdu
dvwhuq."

Wrgdb zh vwloo zhofrph wkrvh zlqgv ri fkdqjh--dqg zh kdyh hyhub uhdvrq wr
eholhyh wkdw rxu wlgh lv uxqqlqj vwurqj. Zlwk wkdqnv wr Dopljkwb Jrg iru
vhhlqj xv wkurxjk d shulorxv sdvvdjh, zh dvn Klv khos dqhz lq jxlglqj wkh
"Jrrg Vkls Xqlrq."