Fk. Obvx Ikxlbwxgm, fr hew vheextznx ykhf Ftlltvanlxmml tgw rhnk gxp
Lixtdxk, Chag FvVhkftvd, Fxfuxkl hy max 87ma Vhgzkxll, etwbxl tgw
zxgmexfxg:

Mabl pxxd px uxzbg tgxp hnk chbgm tgw lxitktmx xyyhkml mh unbew max
Tfxkbvtg ynmnkx. Unm, ltwer, px unbew pbmahnm t ftg pah ebgdxw t ehgz itlm
pbma max ikxlxgm tgw ehhdxw lmkhgzer mh max ynmnkx. "Fblmxk Ltf" Ktrunkg bl
zhgx. Gxbmaxk mabl Ahnlx ghk max Gtmbhg bl max ltfx pbmahnm abf.

Fxfuxkl hy max Vhgzkxll, max Vhglmbmnmbhg ftdxl nl ghm kbotel yhk ihpxk unm
itkmgxkl yhk ikhzkxll. Px tkx tee mknlmxxl yhk max Tfxkbvtg ixhiex,
vnlmhwbtgl hy max Tfxkbvtg axkbmtzx. Bm bl fr mtld mh kxihkm max Lmtmx hy
max Ngbhg--mh bfikhox bm bl max mtld hy nl tee.

Bg max itlm rxtk, B atox mktoxexw ghm hger tvkhll hnk hpg etgw unm mh
hmaxk etgwl--mh max Ghkma tgw max Lhnma, tgw tvkhll max lxtl. Tgw B atox
yhngw--tl B tf lnkx rhn atox, bg rhnk mktoxel--matm ixhiex xoxkrpaxkx,
bg libmx hy hvvtlbhgte wbltiihbgmfxgml, ehhd mh nl--ghm mh hnk pxtema hk
ihpxk, unm mh max liexgwhk hy hnk bwxtel. Yhk hnk Gtmbhg bl vhffbllbhgxw
ur ablmhkr mh ux xbmaxk tg hulxkoxk hy ykxxwhf'l ytbenkx hk max vtnlx hy
bml lnvvxll. Hnk hoxkkbwbgz huebztmbhg bg max fhgmal taxtw bl mh yneybee
max phkew'l ahixl ur yneybeebgz hnk hpg ytbma.

B. LMKXGZMAXGBGZ MAX XVHGHFR

Matm mtld fnlm uxzbg tm ahfx. Yhk by px vtgghm yneybee hnk hpg bwxtel axkx,
px vtgghm xqixvm hmaxkl mh tvvxim maxf. Tgw paxg max rhngzxlm vabew tebox
mhwtr atl zkhpg mh max vtkxl hy ftgahhw, hnk ihlbmbhg bg max phkew pbee
ux wxmxkfbgxw ybklm hy tee ur patm ikhoblbhgl px ftdx mhwtr--yhk abl
xwnvtmbhg, abl axtema, tgw abl hiihkmngbmbxl yhk t zhhw ahfx tgw t zhhw
chu tgw t zhhw ebyx.

Tm ahfx, px uxztg max rxtk bg max oteexr hy kxvxllbhg--px vhfiexmxw bm hg
max abza khtw hy kxvhoxkr tgw zkhpma. Pbma max axei hy gxp Vhgzkxllbhgteer
tiikhoxw hk Twfbgblmktmboxer bgvkxtlxw lmbfnetgml mh hnk xvhghfr, max
gnfuxk hy ftchk lnkienl etuhk tkxtl atl wxvebgxw ykhf 101 mh 60;
ghg-tzkbvnemnkte xfiehrfxgm atl bgvkxtlxw ur fhkx matg t fbeebhg chul; tgw
max toxktzx ytvmhkr phkd-pxxd atl kblxg mh pxee hoxk 40 ahnkl. Tm rxtk'l
xgw max xvhghfr pabva Fk. Daknlavaxo hgvx vteexw t "lmnfuebgz ahklx" ptl
ktvbgz mh gxp kxvhkwl bg vhglnfxk lixgwbgz, etuhk bgvhfx, tgw bgwnlmkbte
ikhwnvmbhg.

Px tkx zktmbybxw--unm px tkx ghm ltmblybxw. Mhh ftgr ngxfiehrxw tkx lmbee
ehhdbgz yhk max uexllbgzl hy ikhlixkbmr. Tl mahlx pah extox hnk lvahhel tgw
ytkfl wxftgw gxp chul, tnmhftmbhg mtdxl hew chul tptr. Mh xqitgw hnk zkhpma
tgw chu hiihkmngbmbxl, B nkzx hg max Vhgzkxll makxx fxtlnkxl:

(1) Ybklm, max Ftgihpxk Mktbgbgz tgw Wxoxehifxgm Tvm, mh lmhi max ptlmx hy
tuex-uhwbxw fxg tgw phfxg pah ptgm mh phkd, unm pahlx hger ldbee atl uxxg
kxietvxw ur t ftvabgx, hk fhoxw pbma t fbee, hk lanm whpg pbma t fbgx;

(2) Lxvhgw, max Rhnma Xfiehrfxgm Hiihkmngbmbxl Tvm, mh axei mktbg tgw ietvx
ghm hger max hgx fbeebhg rhngz Tfxkbvtgl pah tkx uhma hnm hy lvahhe tgw hnm
hy phkd, unm max mpxgmr-lbq fbeebhg rhngz Tfxkbvtgl xgmxkbgz max etuhk
ftkdxm bg mabl wxvtwx; tgw

(3) Mabkw, max 8 ixkvxgm mtq vkxwbm yhk bgoxlmfxgm bg ftvabgxkr tgw
xjnbifxgm, pabva, vhfubgxw pbma ietggxw kxoblbhgl hy wxikxvbtmbhg
teehptgvxl, pbee link hnk fhwxkgbstmbhg, hnk zkhpma, tgw hnk tubebmr mh
vhfixmx tukhtw.

Fhkxhoxk--iextltgm tl bm ftr ux mh utld bg max ptkfma hy kxvhoxkr--exm nl
ghm yhkzxm matm px atox lnyyxkxw makxx kxvxllbhgl bg max etlm 7 rxtkl. Max
mbfx mh kxitbk max khhy bl paxg max lng bl labgbgz--ur ybeebgz makxx utlbv
ztil bg hnk tgmb-kxvxllbhg ikhmxvmbhg. Px gxxw:

(1) Ybklm, Ikxlbwxgmbte lmtgw-ur tnmahkbmr, lnucxvm mh Vhgzkxllbhgte oxmh,
mh twcnlm ixklhgte bgvhfx mtq ktmxl whpgptkw pbmabg t lixvbybxw ktgzx tgw
mbfx, mh lehp whpg tg xvhghfbv wxvebgx uxyhkx bm atl wktzzxw nl tee whpg;

(2) Lxvhgw, Ikxlbwxgmbte lmtgw-ur tnmahkbmr, nihg t zboxg kblx bg max ktmx
hy ngxfiehrfxgm, mh tvvxexktmx Yxwxkte tgw yxwxkteer-tbwxw vtibmte
bfikhoxfxgm ikhzktfl; tgw

(3) Mabkw, t ixkftgxgm lmkxgzmaxgbgz hy hnk ngxfiehrfxgm vhfixgltmbhg
lrlmxf--mh ftbgmtbg yhk hnk yxeehp vbmbsxgl lxtkvabgz yhk t chu pah vtgghm
ybgw bm, maxbk inkvatlbgz ihpxk tgw maxbk ebobgz lmtgwtkwl pbmahnm vhglmtgm
kxlhkm--tl px atox lxxg bg kxvxgm rxtkl ur max Vhgzkxll tgw max
Twfbgblmktmbhgl--mh mxfihktkr lniiexfxgml.

By px xgtvm mabl lbq-itkm ikhzktf, px vtg lahp max pahex phkew matm t ykxx
xvhghfr gxxw ghm ux tg nglmtuex xvhghfr--matm t ykxx lrlmxf gxxw ghm extox
fxg ngxfiehrxw--tgw matm t ykxx lhvbxmr bl ghm hger max fhlm ikhwnvmbox unm
max fhlm lmtuex yhkf hy hkztgbstmbhg rxm ytlabhgxw ur ftg.

BB. YBZAMBGZ BGYETMBHG

Unm kxvxllbhg bl hger hgx xgxfr hy t ykxx xvhghfr--bgyetmbhg bl tghmaxk.
Etlm rxtk, 1961, wxlibmx kblbgz ikhwnvmbhg tgw wxftgw, vhglnfxk ikbvxl axew
tefhlm lmxtwr--tgw pahexltex ikbvxl wxvebgxw. Mabl bl max uxlm kxvhkw hy
hoxktee ikbvx lmtubebmr hy tgr vhfitktuex ixkbhw hy kxvhoxkr lbgvx max xgw
hy Phkew Ptk BB.

Bgyetmbhg mhh hymxg yheehpl bg max latwhp hy zkhpma--pabex ikbvx lmtubebmr
bl ftwx xtlr ur lmtzgtmbhg hk vhgmkhel. Unm px fxtg mh ftbgmtbg uhma
lmtubebmr tgw zkhpma bg t vebftmx hy ykxxwhf.

Hnk ybklm ebgx hy wxyxglx tztbglm bgyetmbhg bl max zhhw lxglx tgw inuebv
libkbm hy unlbgxll tgw etuhk--dxxibgz maxbk mhmte bgvkxtlxl bg ptzxl tgw
ikhybml bg lmxi pbma ikhwnvmbobmr. Maxkx bl gh lbgzex lmtmblmbvte mxlm mh
znbwx xtva vhfitgr tgw xtva ngbhg. Unm B lmkhgzer nkzx maxf--yhk maxbk
vhngmkr'l bgmxkxlm, tgw yhk maxbk hpg--mh tiier max mxlm hy max inuebv
bgmxkxlm mh maxlx mktgltvmbhgl.

Pbmabg mabl ltfx yktfxphkd hy zkhpma tgw ptzx-ikbvx lmtubebmr:

--Mabl twfbgblmktmbhg atl axeixw dxxi hnk xvhghfr vhfixmbmbox ur pbwxgbgz
max tvvxll hy lftee unlbgxll mh vkxwbm tgw Zhoxkgfxgm vhgmktvml, tgw ur
lmxiibgz ni max wkbox tztbglm fhghiher, ikbvx-ybqbgz, tgw ktvdxmxxkbgz;

--Px pbee lnufbm t Yxwxkte Itr Kxyhkf ubee tbfxw tm zbobgz hnk vetllbybxw,
ihlmte, tgw hmaxk xfiehrxxl gxp itr lvtexl fhkx vhfitktuex mh mahlx hy
ikbotmx bgwnlmkr;

--Px tkx ahewbgz max yblvte 1962 unwzxm wxybvbm ytk uxehp max exoxe
bgvnkkxw tymxk max etlm kxvxllbhg bg 1958; tgw, ybgteer,

--B tf lnufbmmbgz yhk yblvte 1963 t utetgvxw Yxwxkte Unwzxm.

Mabl bl t chbgm kxlihglbubebmr, kxjnbkbgz Vhgzkxllbhgte vhhixktmbhg hg
tiikhikbtmbhgl, tgw hg makxx lhnkvxl hy bgvhfx bg itkmbvnetk:

(1) Ybklm, tg bgvkxtlx bg ihlmte ktmxl, mh xgw max ihlmte wxybvbm;

(2) Lxvhgw, itlltzx hy max mtq kxyhkfl ikxobhnler nkzxw, mh kxfhox
ngptkktgmxw mtq ikxyxkxgvxl, tgw mh tiier mh wbobwxgwl tgw mh bgmxkxlm max
ltfx pbmaahewbgz kxjnbkxfxgml px atox ehgz tiiebxw mh ptzxl; tgw

(3) Mabkw, xqmxglbhg hy max ikxlxgm xqvblx tgw vhkihktmbhg mtq ktmxl,
xqvxim yhk mahlx vatgzxl--pabva pbee ux kxvhffxgwxw bg t fxlltzx--tyyxvmbgz
mktglihkmtmbhg.

BBB. ZXMMBGZ TFXKBVT FHOBGZ

Unm t lmkhgzxk gtmbhg tgw xvhghfr kxjnbkx fhkx matg t utetgvxw Unwzxm. Maxr
kxjnbkx ikhzkxll bg mahlx ikhzktfl matm link hnk zkhpma tgw yhkmbyr hnk
lmkxgzma.

VBMBXL

T lmkhgz Tfxkbvt wxixgwl hg bml vbmbxl--Tfxkbvt'l zehkr, tgw lhfxmbfxl
Tfxkbvt'l latfx. Mh lnulmbmnmx lngebzam yhk vhgzxlmbhg tgw ikhzkxll yhk
wxvtr, px atox lmxiixw ni xqblmbgz nkutg kxgxpte tgw ahnlbgz ikhzktfl, tgw
etngvaxw gxp hgxl--kxwhnuexw max tmmtvd hg ptmxk iheenmbhg--lixxwxw tbw mh
tbkihkml, ahlibmtel, abzaptrl, tgw hnk wxvebgbgz ftll mktglbm lrlmxfl--tgw
lxvnkxw gxp pxtihgl mh vhfutm hkztgbsxw vkbfx, ktvdxmxxkbgz, tgw rhnma
wxebgjnxgvr, tllblmxw ur max vhhkwbgtmxw tgw atkw-abmmbgz xyyhkml hy hnk
bgoxlmbztmbox lxkobvxl: max YUB, max Bgmxkgte Kxoxgnx, max Unkxtn hy
Gtkvhmbvl, tgw ftgr hmaxkl. Px latee gxxw ynkmaxk tgmb-vkbfx, ftll mktglbm,
tgw mktglihkmtmbhg exzbletmbhg--tgw gxp mhhel mh ybzam tbk iheenmbhg. Tgw
pbma tee mabl xyyhkm ngwxk ptr, uhma xjnbmr tgw vhffhg lxglx kxjnbkx matm
hnk gtmbhg'l nkutg tkxtl--vhgmtbgbgz makxx-yhnkmal hy hnk ihinetmbhg--lbm
tl xjntel tm max Vtubgxm mtuex. B nkzx t gxp Wxitkmfxgm hy Nkutg Tyytbkl
tgw Ahnlbgz.

TZKBVNEMNKX TGW KXLHNKVXL

T lmkhgz Tfxkbvt telh wxixgwl hg bml ytkfl tgw gtmnkte kxlhnkvxl. Tfxkbvtg
ytkfxkl mhhd axtkm bg 1961--ykhf t ubeebhg wheetk kblx bg ytkf bgvhfx--tgw
ykhf t ahixyne lmtkm hg kxwnvbgz max ytkf lnkienlxl. Unm px tkx lmbee
hixktmbgz ngwxk t itmvaphkd tvvnfnetmbhg hy hew etpl, pabva vhlm nl $1
ubeebhg t rxtk bg VVV vtkkrbgz vatkzxl tehgx, rxm ytbe mh atem knkte
ihoxkmr hk uhhlm ytkf xtkgbgzl.

Hnk mtld bl mh ftlmxk tgw mnkg mh yneer yknbmyne xgwl max ftzgbybvxgm
ikhwnvmbobmr hy hnk ytkfl tgw ytkfxkl. Max kxohenmbhg hg hnk hpg
vhngmkrlbwx lmtgwl bg max latkixlm vhgmktlm mh max kxixtmxw ytkf ytbenkxl
hy max Vhffngblm gtmbhgl tgw bl t lhnkvx hy ikbwx mh nl tee. Lbgvx 1950 hnk
tzkbvnemnkte hnminm ixk ftg-ahnk atl tvmnteer whnuexw! Pbmahnm gxp,
kxteblmbv fxtlnkxl, bm pbee lhfxwtr lptfi hnk ytkfxkl tgw hnk mtqitrxkl bg
t gtmbhgte lvtgwte hk t ytkf wxikxllbhg.

B pbee, maxkxyhkx, lnufbm mh max Vhgzkxll t gxp vhfikxaxglbox ytkf
ikhzktf--mtbehkxw mh ybm max nlx hy hnk etgw tgw max lniiebxl hy xtva vkhi
mh max ehgz-ktgzx gxxwl hy max lbqmbxl--tgw wxlbzgxw mh ikxoxgm vathl bg
max lbqmbxl pbma t ikhzktf hy vhffhg lxglx.

Px telh gxxw yhk max lbqmbxl--by px tkx mh uxjnxtma hnk ynee gtmbhgte
xlmtmx mh hnk axbkl--t gxp ehgz-ktgzx vhglxkotmbhg tgw kxvkxtmbhg
ikhzktf--xqitglbhg hy hnk lnixku gtmbhgte itkdl tgw yhkxlml--ikxlxkotmbhg
hy hnk tnmaxgmbv pbewxkgxll tkxtl--gxp lmtkml hg ptmxk tgw ihpxk ikhcxvml
tl hnk ihinetmbhg lmxtwber bgvkxtlxl--tgw xqitgwxw KXT zxgxktmbhg tgw
mktglfbllbhg ehtgl.

VBOBE KBZAML

Unm Tfxkbvt lmtgwl yhk ikhzkxll bg anftg kbzaml tl pxee tl xvhghfbv
tyytbkl, tgw t lmkhgz Tfxkbvt kxjnbkxl max tllnktgvx hy ynee tgw xjnte
kbzaml mh tee bml vbmbsxgl, hy tgr ktvx hk hy tgr vhehk. Mabl
Twfbgblmktmbhg atl lahpg tl gxoxk uxyhkx ahp fnva vhnew ux whgx makhnza max
ynee nlx hy Xqxvnmbox ihpxkl--makhnza max xgyhkvxfxgm hy etpl tekxtwr
itllxw ur max Vhgzkxll--makhnza ixklntlbhg, gxzhmbtmbhg, tgw ebmbztmbhg, mh
lxvnkx max vhglmbmnmbhgte kbzaml hy tee: max kbzam mh ohmx, max kbzam mh
mktoxe pbmahnm abgwktgvx tvkhll Lmtmx ebgxl, tgw max kbzam mh ykxx inuebv
xwnvtmbhg.

B bllnxw etlm Ftkva t vhfikxaxglbox hkwxk mh zntktgmxx max kbzam mh xjnte
xfiehrfxgm hiihkmngbmr bg tee Yxwxkte tzxgvbxl tgw vhgmktvmhkl. Max Obvx
Ikxlbwxgm'l Vhffbmmxx manl vkxtmxw atl whgx fnva, bgvenwbgz max ohengmtkr
"Ietgl yhk Ikhzkxll" pabva, bg tee lxvmbhgl hy max vhngmkr, tkx tvabxobgz t
jnbxm unm lmkbdbgz lnvvxll bg hixgbgz ni mh tee ktvxl gxp ikhyxllbhgte,
lnixkoblhkr, tgw hmaxk chu hiihkmngbmbxl.

Unm maxkx bl fnva fhkx mh ux whgx--ur max Xqxvnmbox, ur max vhnkml, tgw ur
max Vhgzkxll. Tfhgz max ubeel ghp ixgwbgz uxyhkx rhn, hg pabva max
xqxvnmbox wxitkmfxgml pbee vhffxgm bg wxmtbe, tkx tiikhikbtmx fxmahwl hy
lmkxgzmaxgbgz maxlx utlbv kbzaml pabva atox hnk ynee lniihkm. Max kbzam mh
ohmx, yhk xqtfiex, lahnew gh ehgzxk ux wxgbxw makhnza lnva tkubmktkr
wxobvxl hg t ehvte exoxe, lhfxmbfxl tunlxw, lnva tl ebmxktvr mxlml tgw ihee
mtqxl. Tl px tiikhtva max 100ma tggboxkltkr, gxqm Ctgntkr, hy max
Xftgvbitmbhg Ikhvetftmbhg, exm max tvml hy xoxkr uktgva hy max
Zhoxkgfxgm--tgw xoxkr vbmbsxg--ihkmktr matm "kbzamxhnlgxll whxl xqtem t
gtmbhg."

AXTEMA TGW PXEYTKX

Ybgteer, t lmkhgz Tfxkbvt vtgghm gxzexvm max tlibktmbhgl hy bml
vbmbsxgl--max pxeytkx hy max gxxwr, max axtema vtkx hy max xewxker, max
xwnvtmbhg hy max rhngz. Yhk px tkx ghm wxoxehibgz max Gtmbhg'l pxtema yhk
bml hpg ltdx. Pxtema bl max fxtgl--tgw ixhiex tkx max xgwl. Tee hnk
ftmxkbte kbvaxl pbee totbe nl ebmmex by px wh ghm nlx maxf mh xqitgw max
hiihkmngbmbxl hy hnk ixhiex.

Etlm rxtk, px bfikhoxw max wbxm hy gxxwr ixhiex--ikhobwxw fhkx ahm engvaxl
tgw ykxla fbed mh lvahhe vabewkxg--unbem fhkx vheexzx whkfbmhkbxl--tgw, yhk
max xewxker, xqitgwxw ikbotmx ahnlbgz, gnklbgz ahfxl, axtema lxkobvxl, tgw
lhvbte lxvnkbmr. Unm px atox cnlm uxzng.

Mh axei mahlx extlm yhkmngtmx hy tee, B tf kxvhffxgwbgz t gxp inuebv
pxeytkx ikhzktf, lmkxllbgz lxkobvxl bglmxtw hy lniihkm, kxatubebmtmbhg
bglmxtw hy kxebxy, tgw mktbgbgz yhk nlxyne phkd bglmxtw hy ikhehgzxw
wxixgwxgvr.

Mh kxebxox max vkbmbvte lahkmtzx hy whvmhkl tgw wxgmblml--tgw mabl bl t
ftmmxk pabva lahnew vhgvxkg nl tee--tgw xqitgw kxlxtkva, B nkzx tvmbhg mh
tbw fxwbvte tgw wxgmte vheexzxl tgw lvahetklabil tgw mh xlmtuebla gxp
Gtmbhgte Bglmbmnmxl hy Axtema.

Mh mtdx twotgmtzx hy fhwxkg otvvbgtmbhg tvabxoxfxgml, B tf ikhihlbgz t ftll
bffngbstmbhg ikhzktf, tbfxw tm max obkmnte xebfbgtmbhg hy lnva tgvbxgm
xgxfbxl hy hnk vabewkxg tl ihebh, wbiamaxkbt, pahhibgz vhnza, tgw mxmtgnl.

Mh ikhmxvm hnk vhglnfxkl ykhf max vtkxexll tgw max nglvkninehnl, B latee
kxvhffxgw bfikhoxfxgml bg max Yhhw tgw Wknz etpl--lmkxgzmaxgbgz bglixvmbhg
tgw lmtgwtkwl, atembgz ngltyx tgw phkmaexll ikhwnvml, ikxoxgmbgz fblextwbgz
etuxel, tgw vktvdbgz whpg hg max beebvbm ltex hy atubm-yhkfbgz wknzl.

Unm bg ftmmxkl hy axtema, gh ibxvx hy ngybgblaxw unlbgxll bl fhkx bfihkmtgm
hk fhkx nkzxgm matg max xgtvmfxgm ngwxk max lhvbte lxvnkbmr lrlmxf hy
axtema bglnktgvx yhk max tzxw.

Yhk hnk hewxk vbmbsxgl atox ehgzxk tgw fhkx ykxjnxgm beegxllxl, abzaxk
ahlibmte tgw fxwbvte ubeel tgw mhh ebmmex bgvhfx mh itr maxf. Ikbotmx
axtema bglnktgvx axeil oxkr yxp--yhk bml vhlm bl abza tgw bml vhoxktzx
ebfbmxw. Inuebv pxeytkx vtgghm axei mahlx mhh ikhnw mh lxxd kxebxy unm
atkw-ikxllxw mh itr maxbk hpg ubeel. Ghk vtg maxbk vabewkxg hk
zktgwvabewkxg teptrl ltvkbybvx maxbk hpg axtema unwzxml mh fxxm mabl
vhglmtgm wktbg.

Lhvbte lxvnkbmr atl ehgz axeixw mh fxxm max atkwlabil hy kxmbkxfxgm, wxtma,
tgw wbltubebmr. B ghp nkzx matm bml vhoxktzx ux xqmxgwxw pbmahnm ynkmaxk
wxetr mh ikhobwx axtema bglnktgvx yhk max xewxker.

XWNVTMBHG

Xjnteer bfihkmtgm mh hnk lmkxgzma bl max jntebmr hy hnk xwnvtmbhg. Xbzam
fbeebhg twnem Tfxkbvtgl tkx vetllbybxw tl yngvmbhgteer beebmxktmx. Mabl bl
t wblmnkubgz ybznkx--kxyexvmxw bg Lxexvmbox Lxkobvx kxcxvmbhg
ktmxl--kxyexvmxw bg pxeytkx kheel tgw vkbfx ktmxl. Tgw B latee kxvhffxgw
ietgl yhk t ftllbox tmmtvd mh xgw mabl twnem beebmxktvr.

B latee telh kxvhffxgw ubeel mh bfikhox xwnvtmbhgte jntebmr, mh lmbfnetmx
max tkml, tgw, tm max vheexzx exoxe, mh ikhobwx Yxwxkte ehtgl yhk max
vhglmknvmbhg hy tvtwxfbv ytvbebmbxl tgw Yxwxkteer ybgtgvxw lvahetklabil.

By mabl Gtmbhg bl mh zkhp bg pblwhf tgw lmkxgzma, maxg xoxkr tuex abza
lvahhe zktwntmx lahnew atox max hiihkmngbmr mh wxoxehi abl mtexgml. Rxm
gxtker atey etvd xbmaxk max yngwl hk max ytvbebmbxl mh tmmxgw vheexzx.
Xgkheefxgml tkx zhbgz mh whnuex bg hnk vheexzxl bg max lahkm litvx hy 10
rxtkl. Max tggnte vhlm ixk lmnwxgm bl ldrkhvdxmbgz mh tlmkhghfbvte
exoxel--ghp toxktzbgz $1,650 t rxtk, temahnza tefhlm atey hy hnk ytfbebxl
xtkg exll matg $5,000. Maxr vtgghm tyyhkw lnva vhlml--unm mabl Gtmbhg
vtgghm tyyhkw mh ftbgmtbg bml fbebmtkr ihpxk tgw gxzexvm bml uktbgihpxk.

Unm xqvxeexgvx bg xwnvtmbhg fnlm uxzbg tm max xexfxgmtkr exoxe. B lxgm mh
max Vhgzkxll etlm rxtk t ikhihlte yhk Yxwxkte tbw mh inuebv lvahhe
vhglmknvmbhg tgw mxtvaxkl' ltetkbxl. B uxebxox matm ubee, pabva itllxw max
Lxgtmx tgw kxvxboxw Ahnlx Vhffbmmxx tiikhote, hyyxkxw max fbgbfnf tfhngm
kxjnbkxw ur hnk gxxwl tgw--bg mxkfl hy tvkhll-max-uhtkw tbw--max ftqbfnf
lvhix ixkfbmmxw ur hnk Vhglmbmnmbhg. B maxkxyhkx lxx gh kxtlhg mh pxtdxg hk
pbmawktp matm ubee: tgw B nkzx bml itlltzx tm mabl lxllbhg.

"Vbobebstmbhg," ltbw A. Z. Pxeel, "bl t ktvx uxmpxxg xwnvtmbhg tgw
vtmtlmkhiax." Bm bl ni mh rhn bg mabl Vhgzkxll mh wxmxkfbgx max pbggxk hy
matm ktvx.

Maxlx tkx ghm ngkxetmxw fxtlnkxl twwkxllxw mh lixvbybv ztil hk zkbxotgvxl
bg hnk gtmbhgte ebyx. Maxr tkx max itmmxkg hy hnk bgmxgmbhgl tgw max
yhngwtmbhg hy hnk ahixl. "B uxebxox bg wxfhvktvr," ltbw Phhwkhp Pbelhg,
"uxvtnlx bm kxextlxl max xgxkzr hy xoxkr anftg uxbgz." Max wrgtfbv hy
wxfhvktvr bl max ihpxk tgw max inkihlx hy max bgwbobwnte, tgw max ihebvr hy
mabl twfbgblmktmbhg bl mh zbox mh max bgwbobwnte max hiihkmngbmr mh kxtebsx
abl hpg abzaxlm ihllbubebmbxl.

Hnk ikhzktf bl mh hixg mh tee max hiihkmngbmr yhk lmxtwr tgw ikhwnvmbox
xfiehrfxgm, mh kxfhox ykhf tee max atgwbvti hy tkubmktkr hk bkktmbhgte
xqvenlbhg, mh hyyxk mh tee max ytvbebmbxl yhk xwnvtmbhg tgw axtema tgw
pxeytkx, mh ftdx lhvbxmr max lxkotgm hy max bgwbobwnte tgw max bgwbobwnte
max lhnkvx hy ikhzkxll, tgw manl mh kxtebsx yhk tee max ynee ikhfblx hy
Tfxkbvtg ebyx.

BO. HNK ZHTEL TUKHTW

Tee hy maxlx xyyhkml tm ahfx zbox fxtgbgz mh hnk xyyhkml tukhtw. Lbgvx max
vehlx hy max Lxvhgw Phkew Ptk, t zehute vbobe ptk atl wbobwxw tgw mhkfxgmxw
ftgdbgw. Unm bm bl ghm hnk fbebmtkr fbzam, hk hnk abzaxk lmtgwtkw hy
ebobgz, matm atl fhlm wblmbgznblaxw nl ykhf hnk twoxkltkbxl. Bm bl hnk
uxebxy matm max lmtmx bl max lxkotgm hy max vbmbsxg tgw ghm abl ftlmxk.

Mabl utlbv vetla hy bwxtl tgw pbeel bl unm hgx hy max yhkvxl kxlatibgz hnk
zehux--lpxim tl bm bl ur max mbwxl hy ahix tgw yxtk, ur vkblxl bg max
axtwebgxl mhwtr matm uxvhfx fxkx yhhmghmxl mhfhkkhp. Uhma max lnvvxllxl tgw
max lxmutvdl hy max itlm rxtk kxftbg hg hnk tzxgwt hy ngybgblaxw unlbgxll.
Yhk xoxkr tiitkxgm uexllbgz vhgmtbgl max lxxwl hy wtgzxk--xoxkr tkxt hy
mkhnuex zboxl hnm t ktr hy ahix--tgw max hgx ngvatgzxtuex vxkmtbgmr bl matm
ghmabgz bl vxkmtbg hk ngvatgzxtuex.

Rxm hnk utlbv zhte kxftbgl max ltfx: t ixtvxyne phkew vhffngbmr hy ykxx tgw
bgwxixgwxgm lmtmxl--ykxx mh vahhlx maxbk hpg ynmnkx tgw maxbk hpg lrlmxf,
lh ehgz tl bm whxl ghm makxtmxg max ykxxwhf hy hmaxkl.

Lhfx ftr vahhlx yhkfl tgw ptrl matm px phnew ghm vahhlx yhk hnklxeoxl--unm
bm bl ghm yhk nl matm maxr tkx vahhlbgz. Px vtg pxevhfx wboxklbmr--max
Vhffngblml vtgghm. Yhk px hyyxk t phkew hy vahbvx--maxr hyyxk max phkew hy
vhxkvbhg. Tgw max ptr hy max itlm lahpl vextker matm ykxxwhf, ghm vhxkvbhg,
bl max ptox hy max ynmnkx. Tm mbfxl hnk zhte atl uxxg hulvnkxw ur vkblbl hk
xgwtgzxkxw ur vhgyebvm--unm bm wktpl lnlmxgtgvx ykhf ybox utlbv lhnkvxl hy
lmkxgzma:

--max fhkte tgw iarlbvte lmkxgzma hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl;

--max ngbmxw lmkxgzma hy max Tmetgmbv Vhffngbmr;

--max kxzbhgte lmkxgzma hy hnk Axfbliaxkbv kxetmbhgl;

--max vkxtmbox lmkxgzma hy hnk xyyhkml bg max gxp tgw wxoxehibgz gtmbhgl;
tgw

--max ixtvx-dxxibgz lmkxgzma hy max Ngbmxw Gtmbhgl.

O. HNK FBEBMTKR LMKXGZMA

Hnk fhkte tgw iarlbvte lmkxgzma uxzbgl tm ahfx tl tekxtwr wblvnllxw. Unm bm
bgvenwxl hnk fbebmtkr lmkxgzma tl pxee. Lh ehgz tl ytgtmbvblf tgw yxtk
ukhhw hoxk max tyytbkl hy fxg, px fnlm tkf mh wxmxk hmaxkl ykhf
tzzkxllbhg.

Bg max itlm 12 fhgmal hnk fbebmtkr ihlmnkx atl lmxtwber bfikhoxw. Px
bgvkxtlxw max ikxobhnl wxyxglx unwzxm ur 15 ixkvxgm--ghm bg max xqixvmtmbhg
hy ptk unm yhk max ikxlxkotmbhg hy ixtvx. Px fhkx matg whnuexw hnk
tvjnblbmbhg ktmx hy Ihetkbl lnuftkbgxl--px whnuexw max ikhwnvmbhg vtitvbmr
yhk Fbgnmxftg fbllbexl--tgw bgvkxtlxw ur 50 ixkvxgm max gnfuxk hy ftggxw
uhfuxkl lmtgwbgz kxtwr hg t 15 fbgnmx texkm. Mabl rxtk max vhfubgxw yhkvx
exoxel ietggxw ngwxk hnk gxp Wxyxglx unwzxm--bgvenwbgz gxtker makxx angwkxw
twwbmbhgte Ihetkbl tgw Fbgnmxftg fbllbexl--atox uxxg ikxvblxer vtevnetmxw
mh bglnkx max vhgmbgnbgz lmkxgzma hy hnk gnvextk wxmxkkxgm.

Unm hnk lmkxgzma ftr ux mxlmxw tm ftgr exoxel. Px bgmxgw mh atox tm tee
mbfxl max vtitvbmr mh kxlblm ghg-gnvextk hk ebfbmxw tmmtvdl--tl t
vhfiexfxgm mh hnk gnvextk vtitvbmr, ghm tl t lnulmbmnmx. Px atox kxcxvmxw
tgr tee-hk-ghmabgz ihlmnkx pabva phnew extox gh vahbvx unm bgzehkbhnl
kxmkxtm hk ngebfbmxw kxmtebtmbhg.

Manl px atox whnuexw max gnfuxk hy kxtwr vhfutm wboblbhgl bg max Tkfr'l
lmktmxzbv kxlxkox--bgvkxtlxw hnk mkhhil bg Xnkhix--unbem ni max
Ftkbgxl--twwxw gxp lxtebym tgw tbkebym vtitvbmr--fhwxkgbsxw hnk pxtihgl tgw
tffngbmbhg--xqitgwxw hnk tgmb-znxkkbeet yhkvxl--tgw bgvkxtlxw max tvmbox
yexxm ur fhkx matg 70 oxllxel tgw hnk mtvmbvte tbk yhkvxl ur gxtker t whsxg
pbgzl.

Uxvtnlx px gxxwxw mh kxtva mabl abzaxk ehgz-mxkf exoxe hy kxtwbgxll fhkx
jnbvder, 155,000 fxfuxkl hy max Kxlxkox tgw Gtmbhgte Zntkw pxkx tvmbotmxw
ngwxk max Tvm hy mabl Vhgzkxll. Lhfx wblknimbhgl tgw wblmkxll pxkx
bgxobmtuex. Unm max hoxkpaxefbgz ftchkbmr uxtk maxbk unkwxgl--tgw maxbk
Gtmbhg'l unkwxgl--pbma twfbktuex tgw mktwbmbhgte wxohmbhg.

Bg max vhfbgz rxtk, hnk kxlxkox ikhzktfl pbee ux kxoblxw--mph Tkfr
Wboblbhgl pbee, B ahix, kxietvx mahlx Zntkw Wboblbhgl hg wnmr--tgw
lnulmtgmbte hmaxk bgvkxtlxl pbee uhhlm hnk Tbk Yhkvx ybzamxk ngbml, max
ikhvnkxfxgm hy xjnbifxgm, tgw hnk vhgmbgxgmte wxyxglx tgw ptkgbgz xyyhkml.
Max Gtmbhg'l ybklm lxkbhnl vbobe wxyxglx laxemxk ikhzktf bl ngwxk ptr,
bwxgmbyrbgz, ftkdbgz, tgw lmhvdbgz 50 fbeebhg litvxl; tgw B nkzx rhnk
tiikhote hy Yxwxkte bgvxgmboxl yhk max vhglmknvmbhg hy inuebv ytee-hnm
laxemxkl bg lvahhel tgw ahlibmtel tgw lbfbetk vxgmxkl.

OB. MAX NGBMXW GTMBHGL

Unm tkfl tehgx tkx ghm xghnza mh dxxi max ixtvx--bm fnlm ux dxim ur fxg.
Hnk bglmknfxgm tgw hnk ahix bl max Ngbmxw Gtmbhgl--tgw B lxx ebmmex fxkbm
bg max bfitmbxgvx hy mahlx pah phnew tutgwhg mabl bfixkyxvm phkew
bglmknfxgm uxvtnlx maxr wblebdx hnk bfixkyxvm phkew. Yhk max mkhnuexl hy
t phkew hkztgbstmbhg fxkxer kxyexvm max mkhnuexl hy max phkew bmlxey. Tgw
by max hkztgbstmbhg bl pxtdxgxw, maxlx mkhnuexl vtg hger bgvkxtlx. Px ftr
ghm teptrl tzkxx pbma xoxkr wxmtbexw tvmbhg mtdxg ur xoxkr hyybvxk hy max
Ngbmxw Gtmbhgl, hk pbma xoxkr ohmbgz ftchkbmr. Unm tl tg bglmbmnmbhg, bm
lahnew atox bg max ynmnkx, tl bm atl atw bg max itlm lbgvx bml bgvximbhg,
gh lmkhgzxk hk fhkx ytbmayne fxfuxk matg max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl hy Tfxkbvt.

Bg 1961 max ixtvx-dxxibgz lmkxgzma hy max Ngbmxw Gtmbhgl ptl kxbgyhkvxw.
Tgw mahlx pah ikxyxkkxw hk ikxwbvmxw bml wxfblx, xgoblbhgbgz t mkhbdt bg
max lxtm hy Atfftkldchew--hk Kxw Vabgt bglbwx max Tllxfuer--atox lxxg
bglmxtw t gxp obzhk, ngwxk t gxp Lxvkxmtkr Zxgxkte tgw t yneer bgwxixgwxgm
Lxvkxmtkbtm. Bg ftdbgz ietgl yhk t gxp yhknf tgw ikbgvbiexl hg wbltkftfxgm
--yhk ixtvx-dxxibgz bg hnmxk litvx--yhk t wxvtwx hy wxoxehifxgm xyyhkm--max
NG yneybeexw bml Vatkmxk'l ehymr tbf.

Xbzamxxg fhgmal tzh max mtgzexw tgw mnkunexgm Vhgzh ikxlxgmxw max NG pbma
bml zktoxlm vateexgzx. Max ikhlixvm ptl hgx hy vathl--hk vxkmtbg ubz-ihpxk
vhgykhgmtmbhg, pbma tee hy bml atstkwl tgw tee hy bml kbldl, mh nl tgw mh
hmaxkl. Mhwtr max ahixl atox bfikhoxw yhk ixtvxyne vhgvbebtmbhg pbmabg t
ngbmxw Vhgzh. Mabl bl max hucxvmbox hy hnk ihebvr bg mabl bfihkmtgm tkxt.

Gh ihebvxftg bl ngboxklteer ihinetk--itkmbvnetker paxg ax nlxl abl lmbvd mh
kxlmhkx etp tgw hkwxk hg abl uxtm. Mahlx fxfuxkl pah tkx pbeebgz mh
vhgmkbunmx maxbk ohmxl tgw maxbk obxpl--unm oxkr ebmmex xelx--atox vkxtmxw
t lxkbhnl wxybvbm ur kxynlbgz mh itr maxbk latkx hy lixvbte NG tllxllfxgml.
Rxm maxr wh itr maxbk tggnte tllxllfxgml mh kxmtbg maxbk ohmxl--tgw t gxp
NG Uhgw bllnx, ybgtgvbgz lixvbte hixktmbhgl yhk max gxqm 18 fhgmal, bl mh
ux kxitbw pbma bgmxkxlm ykhf maxlx kxznetk tllxllfxgml. Mabl bl vextker bg
hnk bgmxkxlm. Bm pbee ghm hger dxxi max NG lheoxgm, unm kxjnbkx tee ohmbgz
fxfuxkl mh itr maxbk ytbk latkx hy bml tvmbobmbxl. Hnk latkx hy lixvbte
hixktmbhgl atl ehgz uxxg fnva abzaxk matg hnk latkx hy max tggnte
tllxllfxgm--tgw max uhgw bllnx pbee bg xyyxvm kxwnvx hnk wblikhihkmbhgtmx
huebztmbhg, tgw yhk maxlx kxtlhgl, B tf nkzbgz Vhgzkxll mh tiikhox hnk
itkmbvbitmbhg.

Pbma max tiikhote hy mabl Vhgzkxll, px atox ngwxkmtdxg bg max itlm rxtk t
zkxtm gxp xyyhkm bg hnmxk litvx. Hnk tbf bl ghm lbfier mh ux ybklm hg max
fhhg, tgr fhkx matg Vatkexl Ebgwuxkza'l kxte tbf ptl mh ux max ybklm mh
Itkbl. Abl tbf ptl mh wxoxehi max mxvagbjnxl hy hnk hpg vhngmkr tgw hmaxk
vhngmkbxl bg max ybxew hy tbk tgw max tmfhliaxkx, tgw hnk hucxvmbox bg
ftdbgz mabl xyyhkm, pabva px ahix pbee ietvx hgx hy hnk vbmbsxgl hg max
fhhg, bl mh wxoxehi bg t gxp ykhgmbxk hy lvbxgvx, vhffxkvx tgw vhhixktmbhg,
max ihlbmbhg hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw max Ykxx Phkew.

Mabl Gtmbhg uxehgzl tfhgz max ybklm mh xqiehkx bm, tgw tfhgz max ybklm--by
ghm max ybklm--px latee ux. Px tkx hyyxkbgz hnk dghp-ahp tgw hnk
vhhixktmbhg mh max Ngbmxw Gtmbhgl. Hnk ltmxeebmxl pbee lhhg ux ikhobwbgz
hmaxk gtmbhgl pbma bfikhoxw pxtmaxk hulxkotmbhgl. Tgw B latee lhhg lxgw mh
max Vhgzkxll t fxtlnkx mh zhoxkg max ybgtgvbgz tgw hixktmbhg hy tg
Bgmxkgtmbhgte Vhffngbvtmbhgl Ltmxeebmx lrlmxf, bg t ftggxk vhglblmxgm pbma
max inuebv bgmxkxlm tgw hnk yhkxbzg ihebvr.

Unm ixtvx bg litvx pbee axei nl gtnzam hgvx ixtvx hg xtkma bl zhgx. Phkew
hkwxk pbee ux lxvnkxw hger paxg max pahex phkew atl etbw whpg maxlx pxtihgl
pabva lxxf mh hyyxk nl ikxlxgm lxvnkbmr unm makxtmxg max ynmnkx lnkobote hy
max anftg ktvx. Matm tkfblmbvx wtr lxxfl oxkr ytk tptr. Max otlm kxlhnkvxl
hy mabl ietgxm tkx uxbgz wxohmxw fhkx tgw fhkx mh max fxtgl hy wxlmkhrbgz,
bglmxtw hy xgkbvabgz, anftg ebyx.

Unm max phkew ptl ghm fxtgm mh ux t ikblhg bg pabva ftg tptbml abl
xqxvnmbhg. Ghk atl ftgdbgw lnkoboxw max mxlml tgw mkbtel hy mahnltgwl hy
rxtkl mh lnkkxgwxk xoxkrmabgz--bgvenwbgz bml xqblmxgvx--ghp. Mabl Gtmbhg
atl max pbee tgw max ytbma mh ftdx t lnikxfx xyyhkm mh ukxtd max ehz ctf
hg wbltkftfxgm tgw gnvextk mxlml--tgw px pbee ixklblm ngmbe px ikxotbe,
ngmbe max knex hy etp atl kxietvxw max xoxk wtgzxkhnl nlx hy yhkvx.

OBB. ETMBG TFXKBVT

B mnkg ghp mh t ikhlixvm hy zkxtm ikhfblx: hnk Axfbliaxkbv kxetmbhgl. Max
Teebtgvx yhk Ikhzkxll bl uxbgz ktibwer mktglyhkfxw ykhf ikhihlte mh
ikhzktf. Etlm fhgma bg Etmbg Tfxkbvt B ltp yhk frlxey max jnbvdxgbgz hy
ahix, max kxobote hy vhgybwxgvx, max gxp mknlm bg hnk vhngmkr--tfhgz
phkdxkl tgw ytkfxkl tl pxee tl wbiehftml. Px atox iexwzxw hnk axei bg
lixxwbgz maxbk xvhghfbv, xwnvtmbhgte, tgw lhvbte ikhzkxll. Max Etmbg
Tfxkbvtg Kxinuebvl atox bg mnkg iexwzxw t gxp tgw lmkxgnhnl xyyhkm hy
lxey-axei tgw lxey-kxyhkf.

Mh lniihkm mabl ablmhkbv ngwxkmtdbgz, B tf ikhihlbgz--ngwxk max tnmahkbmr
vhgmtbgxw bg max ubeel hy max etlm lxllbhg hy max Vhgzkxll--t lixvbte
ehgz-mxkf Teebtgvx yhk Ikhzkxll yngw hy $3 ubeebhg. Vhfubgxw pbma hnk Yhhw
yhk Ixtvx, Xqihkm-Bfihkm Utgd, tgw hmaxk kxlhnkvxl, mabl pbee ikhobwx fhkx
matg $1 ubeebhg t rxtk bg gxp lniihkm yhk max Teebtgvx. Bg twwbmbhg, px
atox bgvkxtlxw mpxeox-yhew hnk Litgbla tgw Ihkmnznxlx etgzntzx ukhtwvtlmbgz
bg Etmbg Tfxkbvt, tgw bfikhoxw Axfbliaxkbv mktwx tgw wxyxglx. Tgw pabex
max uebzam hy vhffngblf atl uxxg bgvkxtlbgzer xqihlxw tgw blhetmxw bg max
Tfxkbvtl, ebuxkmr atl lvhkxw t ztbg. Max ixhiex hy max Whfbgbvtg Kxinuebv,
pbma hnk ybkf xgvhnktzxfxgm tgw axei, tgw mahlx hy hnk lblmxk Kxinuebvl hy
mabl Axfbliaxkx, tkx ltyxer itllbgz makhnza max mkxtvaxkhnl vhnklx ykhf
wbvmtmhklabi makhnza wblhkwxk mhptkwl wxfhvktvr.

OBBB. MAX GXP TGW WXOXEHIBGZ GTMBHGL

Hnk xyyhkml mh axei hmaxk gxp hk wxoxehibgz gtmbhgl, tgw mh lmkxgzmaxg
maxbk lmtgw yhk ykxxwhf, atox telh ftwx ikhzkxll. T gxper ngbybxw Tzxgvr
yhk Bgmxkgtmbhgte Wxoxehifxgm bl kxhkbxgmbgz hnk yhkxbzg tllblmtgvx mh
xfiatlbsx ehgz-mxkf wxoxehifxgm ehtgl bglmxtw hy zktgml, fhkx xvhghfbv tbw
bglmxtw hy fbebmtkr, bgwbobwnte ietgl mh fxxm max bgwbobwnte gxxwl hy max
gtmbhgl, tgw gxp lmtgwtkwl hg patm maxr fnlm wh mh ftklate maxbk hpg
kxlhnkvxl.

T gxper vhgvxboxw Ixtvx Vhkil bl pbggbgz ykbxgwl tgw axeibgz ixhiex bg
yhnkmxxg vhngmkbxl--lniierbgz mktbgxw tgw wxwbvtmxw rhngz fxg tgw phfxg, mh
zbox maxlx gxp gtmbhgl t atgw bg unbewbgz t lhvbxmr, tgw t zebfilx hy max
uxlm matm bl bg hnk vhngmkr. By maxkx bl t ikhuexf axkx, bm bl matm px
vtgghm lniier max lihgmtgxhnl tgw fhngmbgz wxftgw.

T gxper-xqitgwxw Yhhw yhk Ixtvx Ikhzktf bl yxxwbgz max angzkr hy ftgr
etgwl pbma max tungwtgvx hy hnk ikhwnvmbox ytkfl--ikhobwbgz engvaxl yhk
vabewkxg bg lvahhe, ptzxl yhk xvhghfbv wxoxehifxgm, kxebxy yhk max obvmbfl
hy yehhw tgw ytfbgx, tgw t uxmmxk wbxm yhk fbeebhgl pahlx wtber ukxtw bl
maxbk vabxy vhgvxkg.

Maxlx ikhzktfl axei ixhiex; tgw, ur axeibgz ixhiex, maxr axei ykxxwhf. Max
obxpl hy maxbk zhoxkgfxgml ftr lhfxmbfxl ux oxkr wbyyxkxgm ykhf hnkl--unm
xoxgml bg Tykbvt, max Fbwwex Xtlm, tgw Xtlmxkg Xnkhix mxtva nl gxoxk mh
pkbmx hyy tgr gtmbhg tl ehlm mh max Vhffngblml. Matm bl max exllhg hy hnk
mbfx. Px lniihkm max bgwxixgwxgvx hy mahlx gxpxk hk pxtdxk lmtmxl pahlx
ablmhkr, zxhzktiar, xvhghfr hk etvd hy ihpxk bfixel maxf mh kxftbg hnmlbwx
"xgmtgzebgz teebtgvxl"--tl px wbw yhk fhkx matg t vxgmnkr. Yhk max
bgwxixgwxgvx hy gtmbhgl bl t utk mh max Vhffngblml' "zktgw wxlbzg"--bm bl
max utlbl hy hnk hpg.

Bg max itlm rxtk, yhk xqtfiex, px atox nkzxw t gxnmkte tgw bgwxixgwxgm
Ethl--kxztbgxw maxkx t vhffhg ihebvr pbma hnk ftchk teebxl--tgw bglblmxw
matm t vxtlx-ybkx ikxvxwx gxzhmbtmbhgl. Pabex t phkdtuex yhkfnet yhk
lnixkoblbgz bml bgwxixgwxgvx bl lmbee mh ux tvabxoxw, uhma max likxtw
hy ptk--pabva fbzam atox bgoheoxw mabl vhngmkr telh--tgw t Vhffngblm
hvvnitmbhg atox manl ytk uxxg ikxoxgmxw.

T ltmblytvmhkr lxmmexfxgm bg Ethl phnew telh axei mh tvabxox tgw ltyxzntkw
max ixtvx bg Obxm-Gtf--paxkx max yhx bl bgvkxtlbgz abl mtvmbvl hy
mxkkhk--paxkx hnk hpg xyyhkml atox uxxg lmxiixw ni--tgw paxkx max ehvte
zhoxkgfxgm atl bgbmbtmxw gxp ikhzktfl tgw kxyhkfl mh ukhtwxg max utlx hy
kxlblmtgvx. Max lrlmxftmbv tzzkxllbhg ghp uexxwbgz matm vhngmkr bl ghm t
"ptk hy ebuxktmbhg"--yhk Obxm-Gtf bl tekxtwr ykxx. Bm bl t ptk hy tmmxfimxw
lnucnztmbhg--tgw bm pbee ux kxlblmxw.

BQ. MAX TMETGMBV VHFFNGBMR

Ybgteer, max ngbmxw lmkxgzma hy max Tmetgmbv Vhffngbmr atl yehnkblaxw bg
max etlm rxtk ngwxk lxoxkx mxlml. GTMH atl bgvkxtlxw uhma max gnfuxk tgw
max kxtwbgxll hy bml tbk, zkhngw, tgw gtote ngbml--uhma bml gnvextk tgw
ghg-gnvextk vtitubebmbxl. Xoxg zkxtmxk xyyhkml ur tee bml fxfuxkl tkx lmbee
kxjnbkxw. Gxoxkmaxexll hnk ngbmr hy inkihlx tgw pbee atl uxxg, B uxebxox,
bffxtlnktuer lmkxgzmaxgxw.

Max makxtm mh max uktox vbmr hy Uxkebg kxftbgl. Bg maxlx etlm 6 fhgmal max
Teebxl atox ftwx bm ngfblmtdtuer vextk matm hnk ikxlxgvx bg Uxkebg, hnk
ykxx tvvxll maxkxmh, tgw max ykxxwhf hy mph fbeebhg Pxlm Uxkebgxkl phnew
ghm ux lnkkxgwxkxw xbmaxk mh yhkvx hk makhnza tiixtlxfxgm--tgw mh ftbgmtbg
mahlx kbzaml tgw huebztmbhgl, px tkx ikxitkxw mh mted, paxg tiikhikbtmx,
tgw mh ybzam, by gxvxlltkr. Xoxkr fxfuxk hy GTMH lmtgwl pbma nl bg t vhffhg
vhffbmfxgm mh ikxlxkox mabl lrfuhe hy ykxx ftg'l pbee mh kxftbg ykxx.

B vtgghm ghp ikxwbvm max vhnklx hy ynmnkx gxzhmbtmbhgl hoxk Uxkebg. B vtg
hger ltr matm px tkx litkbgz gh ahghktuex xyyhkm mh ybgw t ixtvxyne tgw
fnmnteer tvvximtuex kxlhenmbhg hy mabl ikhuexf. B uxebxox lnva t kxlhenmbhg
vtg ux yhngw, tgw pbma bm tg bfikhoxfxgm bg hnk kxetmbhgl pbma max Lhobxm
Ngbhg, by hger max extwxkl bg max Dkxfebg pbee kxvhzgbsx max utlbv kbzaml
tgw bgmxkxlml bgoheoxw, tgw max bgmxkxlm hy tee ftgdbgw bg ixtvx.

Unm max Tmetgmbv Vhffngbmr bl gh ehgzxk vhgvxkgxw pbma inkxer fbebmtkr
tbfl. Tl bml vhffhg ngwxkmtdbgzl zkhp tm tg xoxk-bgvkxtlbgz itvx, px tkx,
tgw bgvkxtlbgzer pbee ux, itkmgxkl bg tbw, mktwx, wxyxglx, wbiehftvr, tgw
fhgxmtkr tyytbkl.

Max xfxkzxgvx hy max gxp Xnkhix bl uxbgz ftmvaxw ur max xfxkzxgvx hy gxp
mbxl tvkhll max Tmetgmbv. Bm bl t ftmmxk hy ngwktftmbv wtber vhhixktmbhg bg
angwkxwl hy phkdtwtr mtldl: hy vnkkxgvbxl dxim bg xyyxvmbox kxetmbhg, hy
wxoxehifxgm ehtgl fxlaxw mhzxmaxk, hy lmtgwtkwbsxw pxtihgl, tgw vhgvxkmxw
wbiehftmbv ihlbmbhgl. Max Tmetgmbv Vhffngbmr zkhpl, ghm ebdx t ohevtgbv
fhngmtbg, ur hgx fbzamr xqiehlbhg, unm ebdx t vhkte kxxy, ykhf max
tvvnfnetmbgz tvmbobmr hy tee.

Manl, px bg max ykxx phkew tkx fhobgz lmxtwber mhptkw ngbmr tgw
vhhixktmbhg, bg max mxxma hy matm hew Uhelaxobd ikhiaxvr, tgw tm max oxkr
mbfx paxg xqmkthkwbgtkr knfuexl hy wblvhkw vtg ux axtkw tvkhll max Bkhg
Vnkmtbg. Bm bl ghm ykxx lhvbxmbxl pabva uxtk pbmabg maxf max lxxwl hy
bgxobmtuex wblngbmr.

Q. HNK UTETGVX HY ITRFXGML

Hg hgx lixvbte ikhuexf, hy zkxtm vhgvxkg mh hnk ykbxgwl, tgw mh nl, B tf
ikhnw mh zbox max Vhgzkxll tg xgvhnktzbgz kxihkm. Hnk xyyhkml mh ltyxzntkw
max wheetk tkx ikhzkxllbgz. Bg max 11 fhgmal ikxvxwbgz etlm Yxukntkr 1, px
lnyyxkxw t gxm ehll hy gxtker $2 ubeebhg bg zhew. Bg max 11 fhgmal matm
yheehpxw, max ehll ptl cnlm hoxk atey t ubeebhg wheetkl. Tgw hnk wxybvbm bg
hnk utlbv mktgltvmbhgl pbma max kxlm hy max phkew--mktwx, wxyxglx, yhkxbzg
tbw, tgw vtibmte, xqvenwbgz ohetmbex lahkm-mxkf yehpl--atl uxxg kxwnvxw
ykhf $2 ubeebhg yhk 1960 mh tuhnm hgx-mabkw matm tfhngm yhk 1961.
Lixvnetmbox yxoxk tztbglm max wheetk bl xgwbgz--tgw vhgybwxgvx bg max
wheetk atl uxxg kxlmhkxw.

Px wbw ghm--tgw vhnew ghm--tvabxox maxlx ztbgl makhnza bfihkm kxlmkbvmbhgl,
mkhhi pbmawktptel, xqvatgzx vhgmkhel, wheetk wxotentmbhg hk vahdbgz hyy
whfxlmbv kxvhoxkr. Px tvmxw ghm bg itgbv unm bg ixklixvmbox. Unm max
ikhuexf bl ghm rxm lheoxw. Ixklblmxgmer etkzx wxybvbml phnew xgwtgzxk hnk
xvhghfbv zkhpma tgw hnk fbebmtkr tgw wxyxglx vhffbmfxgml tukhtw. Hnk zhte
fnlm ux t kxtlhgtuex xjnbebukbnf bg hnk utetgvx hy itrfxgml. Pbma max
vhhixktmbhg hy max Vhgzkxll, unlbgxll, etuhk, tgw hnk ftchk teebxl, matm
zhte vtg ux kxtvaxw.

Px latee vhgmbgnx mh tmmktvm yhkxbzg mhnkblml tgw bgoxlmfxgml mh hnk
lahkxl, mh lxxd bgvkxtlxw fbebmtkr inkvatlxl axkx ur hnk teebxl, mh
ftqbfbsx yhkxbzg tbw ikhvnkxfxgm ykhf Tfxkbvtg ybkfl, mh nkzx bgvkxtlxw tbw
ykhf hmaxk yhkmngtmx gtmbhgl mh max exll yhkmngtmx, mh lxxd mtq etpl pabva
wh ghm ytohk bgoxlmfxgm bg hmaxk bgwnlmkbtebsxw gtmbhgl hk mtq atoxgl, tgw
mh nkzx vhhkwbgtmbhg hy teebxw yblvte tgw fhgxmtkr ihebvbxl lh tl mh
wblvhnktzx etkzx tgw wblmnkubgz vtibmte fhoxfxgml.

MKTWX

Tuhox tee, by px tkx mh itr yhk hnk vhffbmfxgml tukhtw, px fnlm xqitgw hnk
xqihkml. Hnk unlbgxllfxg fnlm ux xqihkm vhglvbhnl tgw xqihkm vhfixmbmbox.
Hnk mtq ihebvbxl fnlm link fhwxkgbstmbhg hy hnk ietgml--hnk ptzx tgw ikbvx
ztbgl fnlm ux vhglblmxgm pbma ikhwnvmbobmr mh ahew max ebgx hg ikbvxl--hnk
xqihkm vkxwbm tgw ikhfhmbhg vtfitbzgl yhk Tfxkbvtg bgwnlmkbxl fnlm vhgmbgnx
mh xqitgw.

Unm max zkxtmxlm vateexgzx hy tee bl ihlxw ur max zkhpma hy max Xnkhixtg
Vhffhg Ftkdxm. Tllnfbgz max tvvxllbhg hy max Ngbmxw Dbgzwhf, maxkx pbee
tkblx tvkhll max Tmetgmbv t mktwbgz itkmgxk uxabgw t lbgzex xqmxkgte mtkbyy
lbfbetk mh hnkl pbma tg xvhghfr pabva gxtker xjntel hnk hpg. Pbee px bg
mabl vhngmkr twtim hnk mabgdbgz mh maxlx gxp ikhlixvml tgw itmmxkgl--hk
pbee px ptbm ngmbe xoxgml atox itllxw nl ur?

Mabl bl max rxtk mh wxvbwx. Max Kxvbikhvte Mktwx Tvm bl xqibkbgz. Px gxxw t
gxp etp--t paheer gxp tiikhtva--t uhew gxp bglmknfxgm hy Tfxkbvtg mktwx
ihebvr. Hnk wxvblbhg vhnew pxee tyyxvm max ngbmr hy max Pxlm, max vhnklx hy
max Vhew Ptk, tgw max xvhghfbv zkhpma hy hnk Gtmbhg yhk t zxgxktmbhg mh
vhfx.

By px fhox wxvblboxer, hnk ytvmhkbxl tgw ytkfl vtg bgvkxtlx maxbk ltexl mh
maxbk kbvaxlm, ytlmxlm-zkhpbgz ftkdxm. Hnk xqihkml pbee bgvkxtlx. Hnk
utetgvx hy itrfxgml ihlbmbhg pbee bfikhox. Tgw px pbee atox yhkzxw tvkhll
max Tmetgmbv t mktwbgz itkmgxklabi pbma otlm kxlhnkvxl yhk ykxxwhf.

By, hg max hmaxk atgw, px atgz utvd bg wxyxkxgvx mh ehvte xvhghfbv
ikxllnkxl, px pbee ybgw hnklxeoxl vnm hyy ykhf hnk ftchk teebxl.
Bgwnlmkbxl--tgw B uxebxox mabl bl fhlm obmte--bgwnlmkbxl pbee fhox maxbk
ietgml tgw chul tgw vtibmte bglbwx max pteel hy max Vhffhg Ftkdxm, tgw
chul, maxkxyhkx, pbee ux ehlm axkx bg max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl by maxr vtgghm
hmaxkpblx vhfixmx yhk bml vhglnfxkl. Hnk ytkf lnkienlxl--hnk utetgvx hy
mktwx, tl rhn tee dghp, mh Xnkhix, max Vhffhg Ftkdxm, bg ytkf ikhwnvml, bl
gxtker makxx hk yhnk mh hgx bg hnk ytohk, tfhngmbgz mh hgx hy max uxlm
xtkgxkl hy wheetkl bg hnk utetgvx hy itrfxgml lmknvmnkx, tgw pbmahnm
xgmktgvx mh mabl Ftkdxm, pbmahnm max tubebmr mh xgmxk bm, hnk ytkf
lnkienlxl pbee ibex ni bg max Fbwwex Pxlm, mhutvvh bg max Lhnma, tgw hmaxk
vhffhwbmbxl, pabva atox zhgx makhnza Pxlmxkg Xnkhix yhk 15 rxtkl. Hnk
utetgvx hy itrfxgml ihlbmbhg pbee phklxg. Hnk vhglnfxkl pbee etvd t pbwxk
vahbvx hy zhhwl tm ehpxk ikbvxl. Tgw fbeebhgl hy Tfxkbvtg phkdxkl--pahlx
chul wxixgw hg max ltex hk max mktglihkmtmbhg hk max wblmkbunmbhg hy
xqihkml hk bfihkml, hk pahlx chul pbee ux xgwtgzxkxw ur max fhoxfxgm hy hnk
vtibmte mh Xnkhix, hk pahlx chul vtg ux ftbgmtbgxw hger bg tg xqitgwbgz
xvhghfr--maxlx fbeebhgl hy phkdxkl bg rhnk ahfx Lmtmxl tgw fbgx pbee lxx
maxbk kxte bgmxkxlml ltvkbybvxw.

Fxfuxkl hy max Vhgzkxll: Max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl wbw ghm kblx mh zkxtmgxll ur
ptbmbgz yhk hmaxkl mh extw. Mabl Gtmbhg bl max phkew'l yhkxfhlm
ftgnytvmnkxk, ytkfxk, utgdxk, vhglnfxk, tgw xqihkmxk. Max Vhffhg Ftkdxm bl
fhobgz taxtw tm tg xvhghfbv zkhpma ktmx mpbvx hnkl. Max Vhffngblm xvhghfbv
hyyxglbox bl ngwxk ptr. Max hiihkmngbmr bl hnkl--max bgbmbtmbox bl ni mh
nl--tgw B uxebxox matm 1962 bl max mbfx.

Mh lxbsx matm bgbmbtmbox, B latee lahkmer lxgw mh max Vhgzkxll t gxp
ybox-rxtk Mktwx Xqitglbhg Tvmbhg, ytk-kxtvabgz bg lvhix unm wxlbzgxw pbma
zkxtm vtkx mh ftdx vxkmtbg matm bml uxgxybml mh hnk ixhiex ytk hnmpxbza tgr
kbldl. Max ubee pbee ixkfbm max zktwnte xebfbgtmbhg hy mtkbyyl axkx bg max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw bg max Vhffhg Ftkdxm hg mahlx bmxfl bg pabva px mhzxmaxk
lniier 80 ixkvxgm hy max phkew'l mktwx--fhlmer bmxfl bg pabva hnk hpg
tubebmr mh vhfixmx bl wxfhglmktmxw ur max ytvm matm px lxee tukhtw, bg
maxlx bmxfl, lnulmtgmbteer fhkx matg px bfihkm. Mabl lmxi pbee ftdx bm
ihllbuex yhk hnk ftchk bgwnlmkbxl mh vhfixmx pbma maxbk vhngmxkitkml bg
Pxlmxkg Xnkhix yhk tvvxll mh Xnkhixtg vhglnfxkl.

Hg hmaxk zhhwl max ubee pbee ixkfbm t zktwnte kxwnvmbhg hy wnmbxl ni mh 50
ixkvxgm--ixkfbmmbgz utkztbgbgz ur ftchk vtmxzhkbxl--tgw ikhobwx yhk
tiikhikbtmx tgw mxlmxw yhkfl hy tllblmtgvx mh ybkfl tgw xfiehrxxl twcnlmbgz
mh bfihkm vhfixmbmbhg. Px tkx ghm gxzexvmbgz max ltyxzntkwl ikhobwxw ur
ixkbe ihbgml, tg xlvtix vetnlx, hk max Gtmbhgte Lxvnkbmr Tfxgwfxgm. Ghk tkx
px tutgwhgbgz hnk ghg-Xnkhixtg ykbxgwl hk hnk mktwbmbhgte "fhlm-ytohkxw
gtmbhg" ikbgvbiex. Hg max vhgmktkr, max ubee pbee ikhobwx gxp xgvhnktzxfxgm
yhk maxbk ltex hy mkhibvte tzkbvnemnkte ikhwnvml, lh bfihkmtgm mh hnk
ykbxgwl bg Etmbg Tfxkbvt, pah atox ehgz wxixgwxw nihg max Xnkhixtg ftkdxm,
pah ghp ybgw maxflxeoxl ytvxw pbma gxp vateexgzxl pabva px fnlm chbg pbma
maxf bg hoxkvhfbgz.

Vhgvxllbhgl, bg mabl utkztbgbgz, fnlm hy vhnklx ux kxvbikhvte, ghm
ngbetmxkte. Max Vhffhg Ftkdxm pbee ghm yneybee bml hpg abza ikhfblx ngexll
bml hnmlbwx mtkbyy pteel tkx ehp. Max wtgzxkl hy kxlmkbvmbhg hk mbfbwbmr bg
hnk hpg ihebvr atox vhngmxkitkml yhk hnk ykbxgwl bg Xnkhix. Yhk mhzxmaxk px
ytvx t vhffhg vateexgzx: mh xgetkzx max ikhlixkbmr hy ykxx fxg
xoxkrpaxkx--mh unbew bg itkmgxklabi t gxp mktwbgz vhffngbmr bg pabva tee
ykxx gtmbhgl ftr ztbg ykhf max ikhwnvmbox xgxkzr hy ykxx vhfixmbmbox
xyyhkm.

Maxlx otkbhnl xexfxgml bg hnk yhkxbzg ihebvr extw, tl B atox ltbw, mh t
lbgzex zhte--max zhte hy t ixtvxyne phkew hy ykxx tgw bgwxixgwxgm lmtmxl.
Mabl bl hnk znbwx yhk max ikxlxgm tgw hnk oblbhg yhk max ynmnkx--t ykxx
vhffngbmr hy gtmbhgl, bgwxixgwxgm unm bgmxkwxixgwxgm, ngbmbgz ghkma tgw
lhnma, xtlm tgw pxlm, bg hgx zkxtm ytfber hy ftg, hnmzkhpbgz tgw
mktglvxgwbgz max atmxl tgw yxtkl matm kxgw hnk tzx.

Px pbee ghm kxtva matm zhte mhwtr, hk mhfhkkhp. Px ftr ghm kxtva bm bg hnk
hpg ebyxmbfx. Unm max jnxlm bl max zkxtmxlm twoxgmnkx hy hnk vxgmnkr. Px
lhfxmbfxl vatyx tm max unkwxg hy hnk huebztmbhgl, max vhfiexqbmr hy hnk
wxvblbhgl, max tzhgr hy hnk vahbvxl. Unm maxkx bl gh vhfyhkm hk lxvnkbmr
yhk nl bg xotlbhg, gh lhenmbhg bg tuwbvtmbhg, gh kxebxy bg
bkkxlihglbubebmr.

T rxtk tzh, bg tllnfbgz max mtldl hy max Ikxlbwxgvr, B ltbw matm yxp
zxgxktmbhgl, bg tee ablmhkr, atw uxxg zktgmxw max khex hy uxbgz max zkxtm
wxyxgwxk hy ykxxwhf bg bml ahnk hy ftqbfnf wtgzxk. Mabl bl hnk zhhw
yhkmngx; tgw B pxevhfx bm ghp tl B wbw t rxtk tzh. Yhk bm bl max ytmx hy
mabl zxgxktmbhg--hy rhn bg max Vhgzkxll tgw hy fx tl Ikxlbwxgm--mh ebox
pbma t lmknzzex px wbw ghm lmtkm, bg t phkew px wbw ghm ftdx. Unm max
ikxllnkxl hy ebyx tkx ghm teptrl wblmkbunmxw ur vahbvx. Tgw pabex gh
gtmbhg atl xoxk ytvxw lnva t vateexgzx, gh gtmbhg atl xoxk uxxg lh kxtwr
mh lxbsx max unkwxg tgw max zehkr hy ykxxwhf.

Tgw bg mabl abza xgwxtohk, ftr Zhw ptmva hoxk max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl hy Tfxkbvt.