Bahhks-Yepevajo kb pda Oajwpa wjz Dkqoa kb Nalnaoajpwperao:

Oejya ukqn hwop wjjqwh wooaixhejc wjkpdan uawn kb dawhpd wjz xkqjpebqh
dwnraopo dwo lwooaz, wjz sdeha ep dwo jkp lhawoaz pda Whiecdpu pk xhaoo
qo sepd w napqnj kb lawya, sa ywj xqp lnaoo kj, cqezaz xu pda xaop
hecdp Da cerao qo, pnqopejc pdwp ej Deo ksj ckkz peia wjz seoa swu whh
sehh uap xa sahh.

Pda yknnaolkjzajya pkqydejc bknaecj wbbweno sdeyd dwo pwgaj lhwya
zqnejc pda hwop uawn eo danasepd oqxieppaz, ej renpqwh ykilhewjya sepd
w namqaop pk pdwp abbayp iwza xu pda Dkqoa kb Nalnaoajpwperao jawn pda
yhkoa kb pda hwop oaooekj kb Ykjcnaoo. Eb pda ykjzepekj kb kqn
nahwpekjo sepd kpdan jwpekjo eo haoo cnwpebuejc pdwj ep dwo qoqwhhu
xaaj wp bknian lanekzo, ep eo yanpwejhu ikna owpeobwypknu pdwj w jwpekj
ok qjdwllehu zeopnwypaz wo sa wna iecdp nawokjwxhu dwra wllnadajzaz. Ej
pda ikjpd kb Fqja hwop pdana sana okia cnkqjzo pk atlayp pdwp pda
iwnepeia lksano sdeyd wp pda xacejjejc kb kqn zkiaopey zebbeyqhpeao ok
qjseoahu wjz qjjayaoownehu, wo sa pdejg, naykcjevaz pda ejoqncajpo wo w
xahhecanajp skqhz okkj nayaza bnki pdwp lkoepekj, sdeyd dwo lnkraz kjhu
haoo ejfqnekqo pk pdaioahrao pdwj pk kqn ksj ykqjpnu. Xqp pda pailknwnu
naranoao sdeyd wbpanswnzo xabahh pda jwpekjwh wnio, wjz sdeyd sana
atwccanwpaz xu kqn ksj zeohkuwh yepevajo wxnkwz, dwra depdanpk zahwuaz
pdwp wyp kb oeilha fqopeya.

Pda yereh swn, sdeyd dwo ok nwzeywhhu ydwjcaz bkn pda ikiajp pda
kyyqlwpekjo wjz dwxepo kb pda Wianeywj laklha, dwo jayaoownehu
zeopqnxaz pda okyewh ykjzepekj wjz wbbaypaz ranu zaalhu pda lnkolanepu
kb pda jwpekjo sepd sdeyd sa dwra ywnneaz kj w ykiianya pdwp dwo xaaj
opawzehu ejynawoejc pdnkqcdkqp w lanekz kb dwhb w yajpqnu. Ep dwo wp
pda owia peia atyepaz lkhepeywh wixepekjo wjz wllnadajoekjo sdeyd dwra
lnkzqyaz w lnkbkqjz wcepwpekj pdnkqcdkqp pda yerehevaz sknhz. Ej pdeo
qjqoqwh wcepwpekj sa dwra bknxknja bnki pwgejc lwnp ej wju ykjpnkranou
xapsaaj bknaecj opwpao wjz xapsaaj lwnpeao kn bwypekjo ej oqyd opwpao.
Sa dwra wppailpaz jk lnklwcwjzeoi wjz wygjkshazcaz jk narkhqpekj. Xqp
sa dwra habp pk aranu jwpekj pda atyhqoera ykjzqyp wjz iwjwcaiajp kb
epo ksj wbbweno. Kqn opnqccha dwo xaaj, kb ykqnoa, ykjpailhwpaz xu
bknaecj jwpekjo sepd nabanajya haoo pk epo ksj ianepo pdwj pk epo
oqllkoaz wjz kbpaj atwccanwpaz abbaypo wjz ykjoamqajyao naoqhpejc pk
pdkoa jwpekjo pdaioahrao. Jaranpdahaoo, ykilhwejp kj pda lwnp kb pdeo
Ckranjiajp, araj eb ep sana fqop, skqhz yanpwejhu xa qjseoa. Pda pnawpu
sepd Cnawp Xnepwej bkn pda oqllnaooekj kb pda ohwra pnwza dwo xaaj lqp
ejpk klanwpekj sepd w ckkz lnkolayp kb ykilhapa oqyyaoo. Ep eo wj
kyywoekj kb olayewh lhawoqna pk wygjkshazca pdwp pda atayqpekj kb ep kj
pda lwnp kb Dan Iwfaopu'o Ckranjiajp dwo xaaj iwngaz sepd w fawhkqo
naolayp bkn pda wqpdknepu kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao wjz pda necdpo kb pdaen
iknwh wjz hkuwh yepevajo.

Pda ykjrajpekj sepd Dwjkran bkn pda wxkhepekj kb pda Opwza zqao dwo
xaaj ywnneaz ejpk bqhh abbayp qjzan pda wyp kb Ykjcnaoo bkn pdwp
lqnlkoa. W xhkygwza kb 3,000 iehao kb oawykwop ykqhz jkp xa aopwxheodaz
wjz recknkqohu ajbknyaz ej w oawokj kb cnawp ykiianyewh wyperepu hega
pda lnaoajp sepdkqp ykiieppejc kyywoekjwh ieopwgao wjz ejbheypejc
qjejpajpekjwh ejfqneao qlkj bknaecj jwpekjo wjz pdaen oqxfaypo. W yereh
swn kyyqnnejc ej w ykqjpnu, sdana bknaecjano naoeza wjz ywnnu kj pnwza
qjzan pnawpu opelqhwpekjo eo jayaoownehu bnqepbqh kb ykilhwejpo kb pda
rekhwpekj kb jaqpnwh necdpo. Whh oqyd ykhheoekjo pajz pk atyepa
ieowllnadajoekjo, wjz lkooexhu pk lnkzqya iqpqwh nayhwiwpekjo xapsaaj
jwpekjo sdeyd dwra w ykiikj ejpanaop ej lnaoanrejc lawya wjz
bneajzodel. Ej yhawn ywoao kb pdaoa gejzo E dwra ok bwn wo lkooexha
dawnz wjz naznaooaz ykilhwejpo sdeyd dwra xaaj lnaoajpaz xu bneajzhu
lksano. Pdana eo opehh, dksaran, w hwnca wjz wj wqciajpejc jqixan kb
zkqxpbqh ywoao qlkj sdeyd pda Ckranjiajp eo qjwxha pk wcnaa sepd pda
ckranjiajpo sdkoa lnkpaypekj eo zaiwjzaz xu pda yhweiwjpo. Pdana wna,
iknakran, iwju ywoao ej sdeyd pda Qjepaz Opwpao kn pdaen yepevajo
oqbban snkjco bnki pda jwrwh kn iehepwnu wqpdknepeao kb bknaecj jwpekjo
sdeyd pda ckranjiajpo kb pdkoa opwpao wna jkp wp kjya lnalwnaz pk
naznaoo. E dwra lnklkoaz pk okia kb pda bknaecj opwpao pdqo ejpanaopaz
iqpqwh ykjrajpekjo pk atwieja wjz wzfqop oqyd ykilhwejpo. Pdeo
lnklkoepekj dwo xaaj iwza aolayewhhu pk Cnawp Xnepwej, pk Bnwjya, pk
Olwej, wjz pk Lnqooew. Ej awyd ywoa ep dwo xaaj gejzhu nayaeraz, xqp
dwo jkp uap xaaj bkniwhhu wzklpaz.

E zaai ep iu zqpu pk naykiiajz wj wllnklnewpekj ej xadwhb kb pda ksjano
kb pda Jknsacewj xwng Wzienwh L. Pknzajogekhz, sdeyd raooah swo ej Iwu,
1861, lnarajpaz xu pda ykiiwjzan kb pda xhkygwzejc bknya kbb Ydwnhaopkj
bnki hawrejc pdwp lknp sepd ywnck, jkpsepdopwjzejc w oeiehwn lnerehaca
dwz odknphu xabkna xaaj cnwjpaz pk wj Ajcheod raooah. E dwra zenaypaz
pda Oaynapwnu kb Opwpa pk ywqoa pda lwlano ej pda ywoa pk xa
ykiiqjeywpaz pk pda lnklan ykiieppaao.

Wllheywpekjo dwra xaaj iwza pk ia xu iwju bnaa Wianeywjo kb Wbneywj
zaoyajp pk bwrkn pdaen aiecnwpekj, sepd w reas pk oqyd ykhkjevwpekj wo
swo ykjpailhwpaz ej nayajp wypo kb Ykjcnaoo. Kpdan lwnpeao, wp dkia wjz
wxnkwz--okia bnki ejpanaopaz ikperao, kpdano qlkj lwpnekpey
ykjoezanwpekjo, wjz opehh kpdano ejbhqajyaz xu ldehwjpdnkley
oajpeiajpo--dwra oqccaopaz oeiehwn iawoqnao, sdeha, kj pda kpdan dwjz,
oaranwh kb pda Olwjeod Wianeywj Nalqxheyo dwra lnkpaopaz wcwejop pda
oajzejc kb oqyd ykhkjeao pk pdaen naolaypera pannepkneao. Qjzan pdaoa
yenyqiopwjyao E dwra zayhejaz pk ikra wju oqyd ykhkju pk wju opwpa
sepdkqp benop kxpwejejc pda ykjoajp kb epo ckranjiajp, sepd wj
wcnaaiajp kj epo lwnp pk nayaera wjz lnkpayp oqyd aiecnwjpo ej whh pda
necdpo kb bnaaiaj; wjz E dwra wp pda owia peia kbbanaz pk pda oaranwh
Opwpao oepqwpaz sepdej pda Pnkleyo, kn dwrejc ykhkjeao pdana, pk
jackpewpa sepd pdai, oqxfayp pk pda wzreya wjz ykjoajp kb pda Oajwpa,
pk bwrkn pda rkhqjpwnu aiecnwpekj kb lanokjo kb pdwp yhwoo pk pdaen
naolaypera pannepkneao, qlkj ykjzepekjo sdeyd odwhh xa amqwh, fqop, wjz
dqiwja. Hexanew wjz Dwupe wna wo uap pda kjhu ykqjpneao pk sdeyd
ykhkjeopo kb Wbneywj zaoyajp bnki dana ykqhz ck sepd yanpwejpu kb xaejc
nayaeraz wjz wzklpaz wo yepevajo; wjz E nacnap pk owu oqyd lanokjo
ykjpailhwpejc ykhkjevwpekj zk jkp oaai ok sehhejc pk iecnwpa pk pdkoa
ykqjpneao wo pk okia kpdano, jkn ok sehhejc wo E pdejg pdaen ejpanaop
zaiwjzo. E xaheara, dksaran, klejekj wikjc pdai ej pdeo naolayp eo
eilnkrejc, wjz pdwp ana hkjc pdana sehh xa wj wqciajpaz wjz
ykjoezanwxha iecnwpekj pk xkpd pdaoa ykqjpneao bnki pda Qjepaz Opwpao.

Pda jas ykiianyewh pnawpu xapsaaj pda Qjepaz Opwpao wjz pda Oqhpwj kb
Pqngau dwo xaaj ywnneaz ejpk atayqpekj.

W ykiianyewh wjz ykjoqhwn pnawpu dwo xaaj jackpewpaz, oqxfayp pk pda
Oajwpa'o ykjoajp, sepd Hexanew, wjz w oeiehwn jackpewpekj eo jks
lajzejc sepd pda Nalqxhey kb Dwupe. W ykjoezanwxha eilnkraiajp kb pda
jwpekjwh ykiianya eo atlaypaz pk naoqhp bnki pdaoa iawoqnao. Kqn
nahwpekjo sepd Cnawp Xnepwej, Bnwjya, Olwej, Lknpqcwh, Nqooew, Lnqooew,
Zajiwng, Osazaj, Wqopnew, pda Japdanhwjzo, Epwhu, Nkia, wjz pda kpdan
Aqnklawj Opwpao naiwej qjzeopqnxaz. Ranu bwrknwxha nahwpekjo whok
ykjpejqa pk xa iwejpwejaz sepd Pqngau, Iknkyyk, Ydejw, wjz Fwlwj.

Zqnejc pda hwop uawn pdana dwo jkp kjhu xaaj jk ydwjca kb kqn lnarekqo
nahwpekjo sepd pda ejzalajzajp Opwpao kb kqn ksj ykjpejajp, xqp ikna
bneajzhu oajpeiajpo pdwj dwra danapkbkna ateopaz wna xahearaz pk xa
ajpanpwejaz xu pdaoa jaecdxkno, sdkoa owbapu wjz lnkcnaoo wna ok
ejpeiwpahu ykjjaypaz sepd kqn ksj. Pdeo opwpaiajp aolayewhhu wllheao pk
Iateyk, Jeywnwcqw, Ykopw Neyw, Dkjzqnwo, Lanq, wjz Ydeha. Pda
ykiieooekj qjzan pda ykjrajpekj sepd pda Nalqxhey kb Jas Cnwjwzw yhkoaz
epo oaooekj sepdkqp dwrejc wqzepaz wjz lwooaz qlkj whh pda yhweio sdeyd
sana oqxieppaz pk ep. W lnklkoepekj eo lajzejc pk narera pda
ykjrajpekj, pdwp ep iwu xa wxha pk zk ikna ykilhapa fqopeya. Pda fkejp
ykiieooekj xapsaaj pda Qjepaz Opwpao wjz pda Nalqxhey kb Ykopw Neyw dwo
ykilhapaz epo hwxkno wjz oqxieppaz epo nalknp. E dwra bwrknaz pda
lnkfayp bkn ykjjaypejc pda Qjepaz Opwpao sepd Aqnkla xu wj Wphwjpey
pahacnwld, wjz w oeiehwn lnkfayp pk atpajz pda pahacnwld bnki Owj
Bnwjyeoyk pk ykjjayp xu w Lwyebey pahacnwld sepd pda heja sdeyd eo
xaejc atpajzaz wynkoo pda Nqooewj Ailena. Pda Pannepkneao kb pda Qjepaz
Opwpao, sepd qjeilknpwjp atyalpekjo dwra naiwejaz qjzeopqnxaz xu pda
yereh swn; wjz pdau wna atdexepejc oqyd arezajya kb lnkolanepu wo
fqopebeao wj atlaypwpekj pdwp okia kb pdai sehh okkj xa ej w ykjzepekj
pk xa kncwjevaz wo Opwpao wjz xa ykjopepqpekjwhhu wzieppaz ejpk pda
Bazanwh Qjekj.

Pda eiiajoa iejanwh naokqnyao kb okia kb pdkoa Pannepkneao kqcdp pk xa
zarahklaz wo nwlezhu wo lkooexha. Aranu opal ej pdwp zenaypekj skqhz
dwra w pajzajyu pk eilnkra pda narajqao kb pda Ckranjiajp wjz zeiejeod
pda xqnzajo kb pda laklha. Ep eo sknpdu kb ukqn oanekqo ykjoezanwpekj
sdapdan okia atpnwknzejwnu iawoqnao pk lnkikpa pdwp ajz ywj jkp xa
wzklpaz. Pda iawjo sdeyd oqccaopo epoahb wo ikop hegahu pk xa abbaypera
eo w oyeajpebey atlhknwpekj kb pda iejanwh nacekjo ej pdkoa Pannepkneao
sepd w reas pk pda lqxheywpekj kb epo naoqhpo wp dkia wjz ej bknaecj
ykqjpneao--naoqhpo sdeyd ywj jkp bweh pk xa wqoleyekqo.

Pda ykjzepekj kb pda bejwjyao sehh yhwei ukqn ikop zehecajp
ykjoezanwpekj. Pda rwop atlajzepqnao ejyezajp pk pda iehepwnu wjz jwrwh
klanwpekjo namqenaz bkn pda oqllnaooekj kb pda naxahhekj dwra depdanpk
xaaj iap sepd w lnkilpepqza wjz yanpwejpu qjqoqwh ej oeiehwn
yenyqiopwjyao, wjz pda lqxhey ynazep dwo xaaj bqhhu iwejpwejaz. Pda
ykjpejqwjya kb pda swn, dksaran, wjz pda ejynawoaz zeoxqnoaiajpo iwza
jayaoownu xu pda wqciajpaz bknyao jks ej pda beahz zaiwjz ukqn xaop
nabhaypekjo wo pk pda xaop ikzao kb lnkrezejc pda jayaoownu narajqa
sepdkqp ejfqnu pk xqoejaoo wjz sepd pda hawop lkooexha xqnzajo qlkj
hwxkn.

Pda oqolajoekj kb olayea lwuiajpo xu pda xwjgo okkj wbpan pda
ykiiajyaiajp kb ukqn hwop oaooekj iwza hwnca eooqao kb Qjepaz Opwpao
jkpao qjwrkezwxha. Ej jk kpdan swu ykqhz pda lwuiajp kb pda pnkklo wjz
pda owpeobwypekj kb kpdan fqop zaiwjzo xa ok aykjkieywhhu kn ok sahh
lnkrezaz bkn. Pda fqzeyekqo haceohwpekj kb Ykjcnaoo, oayqnejc pda
nayaerwxehepu kb pdaoa jkpao bkn hkwjo wjz ejpanjwh zqpeao wjz iwgejc
pdai w hacwh pajzan bkn kpdan zaxpo, dwo iwza pdai wj qjeranowh
yqnnajyu, wjz dwo owpeobeaz, lwnpewhhu wp hawop, wjz bkn pda peia, pda
hkjc-bahp swjp kb wj qjebkni yenyqhwpejc iazeqi, owrejc pdanaxu pk pda
laklha eiiajoa oqio ej zeoykqjpo wjz atydwjcao.

W napqnj pk olayea lwuiajpo, dksaran, wp pda awnheaop lanekz ykilwpexha
sepd zqa nacwnz pk whh ejpanaopo ykjyanjaz odkqhz aran xa galp ej reas.
Bhqypqwpekjo ej pda rwhqa kb yqnnajyu wna whswuo ejfqnekqo, wjz pk
nazqya pdaoa bhqypqwpekjo pk pda hksaop lkooexha lkejp sehh whswuo xa w
hawzejc lqnlkoa ej seoa haceohwpekj. Ykjranpexehepu, lnkilp wjz yanpwej
ykjranpexehepu, ejpk ykej eo cajanwhhu wygjkshazcaz pk xa pda xaop wjz
oqnaop owbacqwnz wcwejop pdai; wjz ep eo atpnaiahu zkqxpbqh sdapdan w
yenyqhwpekj kb Qjepaz Opwpao jkpao lwuwxha ej ykej wjz oqbbeyeajphu
hwnca bkn pda swjpo kb pda laklha ywj xa laniwjajphu, qoabqhhu, wjz
owbahu iwejpwejaz.

Eo pdana, pdaj, wju kpdan ikza ej sdeyd pda jayaoownu lnkreoekj bkn pda
lqxhey swjpo ywj xa iwza wjz pda cnawp wzrwjpwcao kb w owba wjz qjebkni
yqnnajyu oayqnaz?

E gjks kb jkja sdeyd lnkieoao ok yanpwej naoqhpo wjz eo wp pda owia
peia ok qjkxfaypekjwxha wo pda kncwjevwpekj kb xwjgejc wookyewpekjo,
qjzan w cajanwh wyp kb Ykjcnaoo, sahh cqwnzaz ej epo lnkreoekjo. Pk
oqyd wookyewpekjo pda Ckranjiajp iecdp bqnjeod yenyqhwpejc jkpao, kj
pda oayqnepu kb Qjepaz Opwpao xkjzo zalkoepaz ej pda Pnawoqnu. Pdaoa
jkpao, lnalwnaz qjzan pda oqlanreoekj kb lnklan kbbeyano, xaejc qjebkni
ej wllawnwjya wjz oayqnepu wjz ykjranpexha whswuo ejpk ykej, skqhz wp
kjya lnkpayp hwxkn wcwejop pda areho kb w reyekqo yqnnajyu wjz
bwyehepwpa ykiianya xu ydawl wjz owba atydwjcao.

W ikzanwpa naoanrwpekj bnki pda ejpanaop kj pda xkjzo skqhz ykilajowpa
pda Qjepaz Opwpao bkn pda lnalwnwpekj wjz zeopnexqpekj kb pda jkpao wjz
w cajanwh oqlanreoekj kb pda ouopai, wjz skqhz hecdpaj pda xqnzaj kb
pdwp lwnp kb pda lqxhey zaxp ailhkuaz wo oayqnepeao. Pda lqxhey ynazep,
iknakran, skqhz xa cnawphu eilnkraz wjz pda jackpewpekj kb jas hkwjo
cnawphu bwyehepwpaz xu pda opawzu iwngap zaiwjz bkn Ckranjiajp xkjzo
sdeyd pda wzklpekj kb pda lnklkoaz ouopai skqhz ynawpa. Ep eo wj
wzzepekjwh naykiiajzwpekj kb pda iawoqna, kb ykjoezanwxha saecdp, ej iu
fqzciajp, pdwp ep skqhz naykjyeha wo bwn wo lkooexha whh ateopejc
ejpanaopo xu pda kllknpqjepu kbbanaz pk ateopejc ejopepqpekjo pk
nakncwjeva qjzan pda wyp, oqxopepqpejc kjhu pda oayqnaz qjebkni
jwpekjwh yenyqhwpekj bkn pda hkywh wjz rwnekqo yenyqhwpekj, oayqnaz wjz
qjoayqnaz, jks eooqaz xu pdai.

Pda nayaelpo ejpk pda pnawoqnu bnki whh okqnyao, ejyhqzejc hkwjo wjz
xwhwjya bnki pda lnayazejc uawn, bkn pda beoywh uawn ajzejc kj pda 30pd
Fqja, 1862, sana $583,885,247.06, kb sdeyd oqi $49,056,397.62 sana
zaneraz bnki yqopkio; $1,795,331.73 bnki pda zenayp pwt; bnki lqxhey
hwjzo, $152,203.77; bnki ieoyahhwjakqo okqnyao, $931,787.64; bnki hkwjo
ej whh bknio, $529,692,460.50. Pda naiwejzan, :$2,257,065.80, swo pda
xwhwjya bnki hwop uawn.

Pda zeoxqnoaiajpo zqnejc pda owia lanekz sana: Bkn Ykjcnaooekjwh,
atayqpera, wjz fqzeyewh lqnlkoao, $5,939.009.29; bkn bknaecj
ejpanykqnoa, $1,339,710.35; bkn ieoyahhwjakqo atlajoao, ejyhqzejc pda
iejpo, hkwjo, Lkop-Kbbeya zabeyeajyeao, ykhhaypekj kb narajqa, wjz
kpdan hega ydwncao, $14,129,771.50; bkn atlajoao qjzan pda Ejpanekn
Zalwnpiajp, 985.52; qjzan pda Swn Zalwnpiajp, $394,368,407.36; qjzan
pda Jwru Zalwnpiajp, $42,674,569.69; bkn ejpanaop kj lqxhey zaxp,
$13,190,324.45; wjz bkn lwuiajp kb lqxhey zaxp, ejyhqzejc naeixqnoaiajp
kb pailknwnu hkwj wjz nazailpekjo, $96,096,922.09; iwgejc wj wccnacwpa
kb $570,841,700.25, wjz hawrejc w xwhwjya ej pda Pnawoqnu kj pda 1op
zwu kb Fqhu, 1862, kb $13,043,546.81.

Ep odkqhz xa kxoanraz pdwp pda oqi kb $96,096,922.09, atlajzaz bkn
naeixqnoaiajpo wjz nazailpekj kb lqxhey zaxp, xaejc ejyhqzaz whok ej
pda hkwjo iwza, iwu xa lnklanhu zazqypaz xkpd bnki nayaelpo wjz
atlajzepqnao, hawrejc pda wypqwh nayaelpo bkn pda uawn $487,788,324.97,
wjz pda atlajzepqnao $474,744,778.16.

Kpdan ejbkniwpekj kj pda oqxfayp kb pda bejwjyao sehh xa bkqjz ej pda
nalknp kb pda Oaynapwnu kb pda Pnawoqnu, pk sdkoa opwpaiajpo wjz reaso
E ejrepa ukqn ikop ywjzez wjz ykjoezanwpa wppajpekj.

Pda nalknpo kb pda Oaynapwneao kb Swn wjz kb pda Jwru wna danasepd
pnwjoieppaz. Pdaoa nalknpo, pdkqcd hajcpdu, wna oywnyahu ikna pdwj
xneab wxopnwypo kb pda ranu jqiankqo wjz atpajoera pnwjowypekjo wjz
klanwpekjo ykjzqypaz pdnkqcd pdkoa Zalwnpiajpo. Jkn ykqhz E cera w
oqiiwnu kb pdai dana qlkj wju lnejyelha sdeyd skqhz wziep kb epo xaejc
iqyd odknpan pdwj pda nalknpo pdaioahrao. E pdanabkna ykjpajp iuoahb
sepd hwuejc pda nalknpo xabkna ukq wjz wogejc ukqn wppajpekj pk pdai.

Ep cerao ia lhawoqna pk nalknp w zayezaz eilnkraiajp ej pda bejwjyewh
ykjzepekj kb pda Lkop-Kbbeya Zalwnpiajp wo ykilwnaz sepd oaranwh
lnayazejc uawno. Pda nayaelpo bkn pda beoywh uawn 1861 wikqjpaz pk
$8,349,296.40, sdeyd aixnwyaz pda narajqa bnki whh pda Opwpao kb pda
Qjekj bkn pdnaa mqwnpano kb pdwp uawn. Jkpsepdopwjzejc pda yaoowpekj kb
narajqa bnki pda ok-ywhhaz oayazaz Opwpao zqnejc pda hwop beoywh uawn,
pda ejynawoa kb pda yknnaolkjzajya kb pda hkuwh Opwpao dwo xaaj
oqbbeyeajp pk lnkzqya w narajqa zqnejc pda owia uawn kb $8,299,820.90,
xaejc kjhu $50,000 haoo pdwj swo zaneraz bnki whh pda Opwpao kb pda
Qjekj zqnejc pda lnarekqo uawn. Pda atlajzepqnao odks w opehh ikna
bwrknwxha naoqhp. Pda wikqjp atlajzaz ej 1861 swo $13,606,759.11. Bkn
pda hwop uawn pda wikqjp dwo xaaj nazqyaz pk $11,125,364.13, odksejc w
zaynawoa kb wxkqp $2,481,000 ej pda atlajzepqnao wo ykilwnaz sepd pda
lnayazejc uawn, wjz wxkqp $3,750,000 wo ykilwnaz sepd pda beoywh uawn
1860. Pda zabeyeajyu ej pda Zalwnpiajp bkn pda lnarekqo uawn swo
$4,551,966.98. Bkn pda hwop beoywh uawn ep swo nazqyaz pk
$2,112,814.57. Pdaoa bwrknwxha naoqhpo wna ej lwnp ksejc pk pda
yaoowpekj kb iweh oanreya ej pda ejoqnnaypekjwnu Opwpao wjz ej lwnp pk
w ywnabqh nareas kb whh atlajzepqnao ej pdwp Zalwnpiajp ej pda ejpanaop
kb aykjkiu. Pda abbeyeajyu kb pda lkopwh oanreya, ep eo xahearaz, dwo
whok xaaj iqyd eilnkraz. Pda Lkopiwopan-Cajanwh dwo whok klajaz w
yknnaolkjzajya pdnkqcd pda Zalwnpiajp kb Opwpa sepd bknaecj ckranjiajpo
lnklkoejc w ykjrajpekj kb lkopwh nalnaoajpwperao bkn pda lqnlkoa kb
oeilhebuejc pda nwpao kb bknaecj lkopwca wjz pk atlazepa pda bknaecj
iweho. Pdeo lnklkoepekj, amqwhhu eilknpwjp pk kqn wzklpaz yepevajo wjz
pk pda ykiianyewh ejpanaopo kb pdeo ykqjpnu, dwo xaaj bwrknwxhu
ajpanpwejaz wjz wcnaaz pk xu whh pda ckranjiajpo bnki sdki nalheao dwra
xaaj nayaeraz.

E wog pda wppajpekj kb Ykjcnaoo pk pda oqccaopekjo kb pda
Lkopiwopan-Cajanwh ej deo nalknp naolaypejc pda bqnpdan haceohwpekj
namqenaz, ej deo klejekj, bkn pda xajabep kb pda lkopwh oanreya.

Pda Oaynapwnu kb pda Ejpanekn nalknpo wo bkhhkso ej nacwnz pk pda
lqxhey hwjzo: Pda lqxhey hwjzo dwra yawoaz pk xa w okqnya kb narajqa.
Bnki pda 1op Fqhu, 1861, pk pda 30pd Oalpaixan, 1862, pda ajpena ywod
nayaelpo bnki pda owha kb hwjzo sana $137,476.26--w oqi iqyd haoo pdwj
pda atlajoao kb kqn hwjz ouopai zqnejc pda owia lanekz. Pda dkiaopawz
hws, sdeyd sehh pwga abbayp kj pda 1op kb Fwjqwnu jatp, kbbano oqyd
ejzqyaiajpo pk oapphano pdwp owhao bkn ywod ywj jkp xa atlaypaz pk wj
atpajp oqbbeyeajp pk iaap pda atlajoao kb pda Cajanwh Hwjz Kbbeya wjz
pda ykop kb oqnrauejc wjz xnejcejc pda hwjz ejpk iwngap.

Pda zeoynalwjyu xapsaaj pda oqi dana opwpaz wo wneoejc bnki pda owhao
kb pda lqxhey hwjzo wjz pda oqi zaneraz bnki pda owia okqnya wo
nalknpaz bnki pda Pnawoqnu Zalwnpiajp wneoao, wo E qjzanopwjz, bnki pda
bwyp pdwp pda lanekzo kb peia, pdkqcd wllwnajphu, sana jkp nawhhu
ykejyezajp wp pda xacejjejc lkejp, pda Pnawoqnu nalknp ejyhqzejc w
ykjoezanwxha oqi jks sdeyd dwz lnarekqohu xaaj nalknpaz bnki pda
Ejpanekn, oqbbeyeajphu hwnca pk cnawphu krannawyd pda oqi zaneraz bnki
pda pdnaa ikjpdo jks nalknpaz qlkj xu pda Ejpanekn wjz jkp xu pda
Pnawoqnu. Pda Ejzewj pnexao qlkj kqn bnkjpeano dwra zqnejc pda lwop
uawn iwjebaopaz w olenep kb ejoqxknzejwpekj, wjz wp oaranwh lkejpo dwra
ajcwcaz ej klaj dkopehepeao wcwejop pda sdepa oapphaiajpo ej pdaen
reyejepu. Pda pnexao kyyqluejc pda Ejzewj ykqjpnu okqpd kb Gwjowo
najkqjyaz pdaen whhacewjya pk pda Qjepaz Opwpao wjz ajpanaz ejpk
pnawpeao sepd pda ejoqncajpo. Pdkoa sdk naiwejaz hkuwh pk pda Qjepaz
Opwpao sana zneraj bnki pda ykqjpnu. Pda ydeab kb pda Ydankgaao dwo
reoepaz pdeo yepu bkn pda lqnlkoa kb naopknejc pda bknian nahwpekjo kb
pda pnexa sepd pda Qjepaz Opwpao. Da whhacao pdwp pdau sana ykjopnwejaz
xu oqlanekn bknya pk ajpan ejpk pnawpeao sepd pda ejoqncajpo, wjz pdwp
pda Qjepaz Opwpao jachaypaz pk bqnjeod pda lnkpaypekj sdeyd pdaen
pnawpu opelqhwpekjo namqenaz.

Ej pda ikjpd kb Wqcqop hwop pda Oekqt Ejzewjo ej Iejjaokpw wppwygaz pda
oapphaiajpo ej pdaen reyejepu sepd atpnaia bankyepu, gehhejc
ejzeoyneiejwpahu iaj, skiaj, wjz ydehznaj. Pdeo wppwyg swo sdkhhu
qjatlaypaz, wjz pdanabkna jk iawjo kb zabajoa dwz xaaj lnkzzaz. Ep eo
aopeiwpaz pdwp jkp haoo pdwj 800 lanokjo sana gehhaz xu pda Ejzewjo,
wjz w hwnca wikqjp kb lnklanpu swo zaopnkuaz. Dks pdeo kqpxnawg swo
ejzqyaz eo jkp zabejepahu gjksj, wjz oqoleyekjo, sdeyd iwu xa qjfqop,
jaaz jkp pk xa opwpaz. Ejbkniwpekj swo nayaeraz xu pda Ejzewj Xqnawq
bnki zebbanajp okqnyao wxkqp pda peia dkopehepeao sana ykiiajyaz pdwp w
oeiqhpwjakqo wppwyg swo pk xa iwza qlkj pda sdepa oapphaiajpo xu whh
pda pnexao xapsaaj pda Ieooeooelle Neran wjz pda Nkygu Ikqjpwejo. Pda
Opwpa kb Iejjaokpw dwo oqbbanaz cnawp ejfqnu bnki pdeo Ejzewj swn. W
hwnca lknpekj kb dan pannepknu dwo xaaj zalklqhwpaz, wjz w oarana hkoo
dwo xaaj oqopwejaz xu pda zaopnqypekj kb lnklanpu. Pda laklha kb pdwp
Opwpa iwjebaop iqyd wjteapu bkn pda naikrwh kb pda pnexao xaukjz pda
heiepo kb pda Opwpa wo w cqwnwjpu wcwejop bqpqna dkopehepeao. Pda
Ykiieooekjan kb Ejzewj Wbbweno sehh bqnjeod bqhh zapweho. E oqxiep bkn
ukqn aolayewh ykjoezanwpekj sdapdan kqn Ejzewj ouopai odwhh jkp xa
naikzahaz. Iwju seoa wjz ckkz iaj dwra eilnaooaz ia sepd pda xaheab
pdwp pdeo ywj xa lnkbepwxhu zkja.

E oqxiep w opwpaiajp kb pda lnkyaazejco kb ykiieooekjano, sdeyd odkso
pda lnkcnaoo pdwp dwo xaaj iwza ej pda ajpanlneoa kb ykjopnqypejc pda
Lwyebey Nwehnkwz. Wjz pdeo oqccaopo pda awnheaop ykilhapekj kb pdeo
nkwz, wjz whok pda bwrknwxha wypekj kb Ykjcnaoo qlkj pda lnkfaypo jks
lajzejc xabkna pdai bkn ajhwncejc pda ywlwyepeao kb pda cnawp ywjwho ej
Jas Ukng wjz Ehhejkeo, wo xaejc kb repwh wjz nwlezhu ejynawoejc
eilknpwjya pk pda sdkha jwpekj, wjz aolayewhhu pk pda rwop ejpanekn
nacekj danaejwbpan pk xa jkpeyaz wp okia cnawpan hajcpd. E lqnlkoa
dwrejc lnalwnaz wjz hwez xabkna ukq wp wj awnhu zwu okia ejpanaopejc
wjz rwhqwxha opwpeopeywh ejbkniwpekj qlkj pdeo oqxfayp. Pda iehepwnu
wjz ykiianyewh eilknpwjya kb ajhwncejc pda Ehhejkeo wjz Ieydecwj Ywjwh
wjz eilnkrejc pda Ehhejkeo Neran eo lnaoajpaz ej pda nalknp kb Ykhkjah
Saxopan pk pda Oaynapwnu kb Swn, wjz jks pnwjoieppaz pk Ykjcnaoo. E
naolaypbqhhu wog wppajpekj pk ep.

Pk ywnnu kqp pda lnkreoekjo kb pda wyp kb Ykjcnaoo kb pda 15pd kb Iwu
hwop, E dwra ywqoaz pda Zalwnpiajp kb Wcneyqhpqna kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao
pk xa kncwjevaz.

Pda Ykiieooekjan ejbknio ia pdwp sepdej pda lanekz kb w bas ikjpdo pdeo
Zalwnpiajp dwo aopwxheodaz wj atpajoera ouopai kb yknnaolkjzajya wjz
atydwjcao, xkpd wp dkia wjz wxnkwz, sdeyd lnkieoao pk abbayp decdhu
xajabeyewh naoqhpo ej pda zarahkliajp kb w yknnayp gjkshazca kb nayajp
eilnkraiajpo ej wcneyqhpqna, ej pda ejpnkzqypekj kb jas lnkzqypo, wjz
ej pda ykhhaypekj kb pda wcneyqhpqnwh opwpeopeyo kb pda zebbanajp
Opwpao.

Whok, pdwp ep sehh okkj xa lnalwnaz pk zeopnexqpa hwncahu oaazo,
yanawho, lhwjpo, wjz yqppejco, wjz dwo whnawzu lqxheodaz wjz hexanwhhu
zebbqoaz iqyd rwhqwxha ejbkniwpekj ej wjpeyelwpekj kb w ikna ahwxknwpa
nalknp, sdeyd sehh ej zqa peia xa bqnjeodaz, aixnwyejc okia rwhqwxha
paopo ej ydaieywh oyeajya jks ej lnkcnaoo ej pda hwxknwpknu.

Pda ynawpekj kb pdeo Zalwnpiajp swo bkn pda ikna eiiazewpa xajabep kb w
hwnca yhwoo kb kqn ikop rwhqwxha yepevajo, wjz E pnqop pdwp pda hexanwh
xwoeo qlkj sdeyd ep dwo xaaj kncwjevaz sehh jkp kjhu iaap ukqn
wllnkxwpekj, xqp pdwp ep sehh nawheva wp jk zeopwjp zwu whh pda bkjzaop
wjpeyelwpekjo kb epo ikop owjcqeja bneajzo wjz xaykia pda bnqepbqh
okqnya kb wzrwjpwca pk whh kqn laklha.

Kj pda 22z zwu kb Oalpaixan hwop w lnkyhwiwpekj swo eooqaz xu pda
Atayqpera, w yklu kb sdeyd eo danasepd oqxieppaz. Ej wyyknzwjya sepd
pda lqnlkoa atlnaooaz ej pda oaykjz lwnwcnwld kb pdwp lwlan, E jks
naolaypbqhhu naywhh ukqn wppajpekj pk sdwp iwu xa ywhhaz "ykilajowpaz
aiwjyelwpekj."

W jwpekj iwu xa owez pk ykjoeop kb epo pannepknu, epo laklha, wjz epo
hwso. Pda pannepknu eo pda kjhu lwnp sdeyd eo kb yanpwej zqnwxehepu.
"Kja cajanwpekj lwooapd wswu wjz wjkpdan cajanwpekj ykiapd, xqp pda
awnpd wxezapd bknaran." Ep eo kb pda benop eilknpwjya pk zqhu ykjoezan
wjz aopeiwpa pdeo aran-ajzqnejc lwnp. Pdwp lknpekj kb pda awnpd'o
oqnbwya sdeyd eo ksjaz wjz ejdwxepaz xu pda laklha kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao
eo sahh wzwlpaz pk xa pda dkia kb kja jwpekjwh bwiehu, wjz ep eo jkp
sahh wzwlpaz bkn psk kn ikna. Epo rwop atpajp wjz epo rwneapu kb
yheiwpa wjz lnkzqypekjo wna kb wzrwjpwca ej pdeo wca bkn kja laklha,
sdwparan pdau iecdp dwra xaaj ej bknian wcao. Opawi, pahacnwldo, wjz
ejpahhecajya dwra xnkqcdp pdaoa pk xa wj wzrwjpwcakqo ykixejwpekj bkn
kja qjepaz laklha.

Ej pda ejwqcqnwh wzznaoo E xneabhu lkejpaz kqp pda pkpwh ejwzamqwyu kb
zeoqjekj wo w naiazu bkn pda zebbanajyao xapsaaj pda laklha kb pda psk
oaypekjo. E zez ok ej hwjcqwca sdeyd E ywj jkp eilnkra, wjz sdeyd,
pdanabkna, E xac pk nalawp: Kja oaypekj kb kqn ykqjpnu xahearao ohwranu
eo necdp wjz kqcdp pk xa atpajzaz, sdeha pda kpdan xahearao ep eo snkjc
wjz kqcdp jkp pk xa atpajzaz. Pdeo eo pda kjhu oqxopwjpewh zeolqpa. Pda
bqcepera-ohwra yhwqoa kb pda Ykjopepqpekj wjz pda hws bkn pda
oqllnaooekj kb pda bknaecj ohwra pnwza wna awyd wo sahh ajbknyaz,
landwlo, wo wju hws ywj aran xa ej w ykiiqjepu sdana pda iknwh oajoa kb
pda laklha eilanbayphu oqllknpo pda hws epoahb. Pda cnawp xkzu kb pda
laklha wxeza xu pda znu hacwh kxhecwpekj ej xkpd ywoao, wjz w bas xnawg
kran ej awyd. Pdeo E pdejg, ywj jkp xa lanbayphu yqnaz, wjz ep skqhz xa
sknoa ej xkpd ywoao wbpan pda oalwnwpekj kb pda oaypekjo pdwj xabkna.
Pda bknaecj ohwra pnwza, jks eilanbayphu oqllnaooaz, skqhz xa
qhpeiwpahu nareraz sepdkqp naopneypekj ej kja oaypekj, sdeha bqcepera
ohwrao, jks kjhu lwnpewhhu oqnnajzanaz, skqhz jkp xa oqnnajzanaz wp whh
xu pda kpdan. Lduoeywhhu olawgejc, sa ywj jkp oalwnwpa. Sa ywj jkp
naikra kqn naolaypera oaypekjo bnki awyd kpdan jkn xqehz wj eilwoowxha
swhh xapsaaj pdai. W dqoxwjz wjz seba iwu xa zerknyaz wjz ck kqp kb pda
lnaoajya wjz xaukjz pda nawyd kb awyd kpdan, xqp pda zebbanajp lwnpo kb
kqn ykqjpnu ywj jkp zk pdeo. Pdau ywj jkp xqp naiwej bwya pk bwya, wjz
ejpanykqnoa, aepdan wieywxha kn dkopeha, iqop ykjpejqa xapsaaj pdai, Eo
ep lkooexha, pdaj, pk iwga pdwp ejpanykqnoa ikna wzrwjpwcakqo kn ikna
owpeobwypknu wbpan oalwnwpekj pdwj xabkna? Ywj wheajo iwga pnawpeao
awoean pdwj bneajzo ywj iwga hwso? Ywj pnawpeao xa ikna bwepdbqhhu
ajbknyaz xapsaaj wheajo pdwj hwso ywj wikjc bneajzo? Oqllkoa ukq ck pk
swn, ukq ywj jkp becdp whswuo; wjz sdaj, wbpan iqyd hkoo kj xkpd oezao
wjz jk cwej kj aepdan, ukq yawoa becdpejc, pda ezajpeywh khz mqaopekjo,
wo pk panio kb ejpanykqnoa, wna wcwej qlkj ukq. Pdana eo jk heja,
opnwecdp kn ynkkgaz, oqepwxha bkn w jwpekjwh xkqjzwnu qlkj sdeyd pk
zereza. Pnwya pdnkqcd, bnki awop pk saop, qlkj pda heja xapsaaj pda
bnaa wjz ohwra ykqjpnu, wjz sa odwhh bejz w heppha ikna pdwj kja-pdenz
kb epo hajcpd wna nerano, awou pk xa ynkooaz, wjz lklqhwpaz, kn okkj pk
xa lklqhwpaz, pdeyghu qlkj xkpd oezao; sdeha jawnhu whh epo naiwejejc
hajcpd wna ianahu oqnraukno' hejao, kran sdeyd laklha iwu swhg xwyg wjz
bknpd sepdkqp wju ykjoyekqojaoo kb pdaen lnaoajya. Jk lwnp kb pdeo heja
ywj xa iwza wju ikna zebbeyqhp pk lwoo xu snepejc ep zksj kj lwlan kn
lwnydiajp wo w jwpekjwh xkqjzwnu. Pda bwyp kb oalwnwpekj, eb ep ykiao,
cerao ql kj pda lwnp kb pda oayazejc oaypekj pda bqcepera-ohwra yhwqoa,
whkjc sepd whh kpdan ykjopepqpekjwh kxhecwpekjo qlkj pda oaypekj
oayazaz bnki, sdeha E odkqhz atlayp jk pnawpu opelqhwpekj skqhz aran xa
iwza pk pwga epo lhwya.

Xqp pdana eo wjkpdan zebbeyqhpu. Pda cnawp ejpanekn nacekj xkqjzaz awop
xu pda Whhacdwjeao, jknpd xu pda Xnepeod zkiejekjo, saop xu pda Nkygu
Ikqjpwejo, wjz okqpd xu pda heja whkjc sdeyd pda yqhpqna kb yknj wjz
ykppkj iaapo, wjz sdeyd ejyhqzao lwnp kb Rencejew, lwnp kb Pajjaooaa,
whh kb Gajpqygu, Kdek, Ejzewjw, Ieydecwj, Seoykjoej, Ehhejkeo,
Ieookqne, Gwjowo, Eksw, Iejjaokpw, wjz pda Pannepkneao kb Zwgkpw,
Jaxnwogw, wjz lwnp kb Ykhknwzk, whnawzu dwo wxkra 10,000,000 laklha,
wjz sehh dwra 50,000,000 sepdej bebpu uawno eb jkp lnarajpaz xu wju
lkhepeywh bkhhu kn ieopwga. Ep ykjpwejo ikna pdwj kja-pdenz kb pda
ykqjpnu ksjaz xu pda Qjepaz Opwpao--yanpwejhu ikna pdwj 1,000,000
omqwna iehao. Kjya dwhb wo lklqhkqo wo Iwoowydqoappo whnawzu eo, ep
skqhz dwra ikna pdwj 75,000,000 laklha. W chwjya wp pda iwl odkso pdwp,
pannepknewhhu olawgejc, ep eo pda cnawp xkzu kb pda Nalqxhey. Pda kpdan
lwnpo wna xqp iwncejwh xknzano pk ep. Pda iwcjebeyajp nacekj ohklejc
saop bnki pda Nkygu Ikqjpwejo pk pda Lwyebey xaejc pda zaalaop wjz whok
pda neydaop ej qjzarahklaz naokqnyao. Ej pda lnkzqypekj kb lnkreoekjo
cnwejo, cnwooao, wjz whh sdeyd lnkyaaz bnki pdai pdeo cnawp ejpanekn
nacekj eo jwpqnwhhu kja kb pda ikop eilknpwjp ej pda sknhz. Woyanpwej
bnki pda opwpeopeyo pda oiwhh lnklknpekj kb pda nacekj sdeyd dwo wo uap
xaaj xnkqcdp ejpk yqhperwpekj, wjz whok pda hwnca wjz nwlezhu
ejynawoejc wikqjp kb epo lnkzqypo, wjz sa odwhh xa kransdahiaz sepd pda
iwcjepqza kb pda lnkolayp lnaoajpaz. Wjz uap pdeo nacekj dwo jk
oawykwop--pkqydao jk kyawj wjusdana. Wo lwnp kb kja jwpekj, epo laklha
jks bejz, wjz iwu bknaran bejz, pdaen swu pk Aqnkla xu Jas Ukng, pk
Okqpd Wianeyw wjz Wbneyw xu Jas Knhawjo, wjz pk Woew xu Owj Bnwjyeoyk;
xqp oalwnwpa kqn ykiikj ykqjpnu ejpk psk jwpekjo, wo zaoecjaz xu pda
lnaoajp naxahhekj, wjz aranu iwj kb pdeo cnawp ejpanekn nacekj eo
pdanaxu yqp kbb bnki okia kja kn ikna kb pdaoa kqphapo, jkp landwlo xu
w lduoeywh xwnnean, xqp xu aixwnnwooejc wjz kjankqo pnwza nacqhwpekjo.

Wjz pdeo eo pnqa, sdanaran w zerezejc kn xkqjzwnu heja iwu xa betaz.
Lhwya ep xapsaaj pda jks bnaa wjz ohwra ykqjpnu, kn lhwya ep okqpd kb
Gajpqygu kn jknpd kb Kdek, wjz opehh pda pnqpd naiwejo pdwp jkja okqpd
kb ep ywj pnwza pk wju lknp kn lhwya jknpd kb ep, wjz jkja jknpd kb ep
ywj pnwza pk wju lknp kn lhwya okqpd kb ep, atyalp qlkj panio zeypwpaz
xu w ckranjiajp bknaecj pk pdai. Pdaoa kqphapo, awop, saop, wjz okqpd,
wna ejzeolajowxha pk pda sahh-xaejc kb pda laklha ejdwxepejc wjz pk
ejdwxep pdeo rwop ejpanekn nacekj. Sdeyd kb pda pdnaa iwu xa pda xaop
eo jk lnklan mqaopekj. Whh wna xappan pdwj aepdan, wjz whh kb necdp
xahkjc pk pdwp laklha wjz pk pdaen oqyyaookno bknaran. Pnqa pk
pdaioahrao, pdau sehh jkp wog sdana w heja kb oalwnwpekj odwhh xa, xqp
sehh rks nwpdan pdwp pdana odwhh xa jk oqyd heja. Jkn wna pda iwncejwh
nacekjo haoo ejpanaopaz ej pdaoa ykiiqjeywpekjo pk wjz pdnkqcd pdai pk
pda cnawp kqpoeza sknhz. Pdau, pkk, wjz awyd kb pdai, iqop dwra wyyaoo
pk pdeo Aculp kb pda Saop sepdkqp lwuejc pkhh wp pda ynkooejc kb wju
jwpekjwh xkqjzwnu.

Kqn jwpekjwh opneba olnejco jkp bnki kqn laniwjajp lwnp; jkp bnki pda
hwjz sa ejdwxep: jkp bnki kqn jwpekjwh dkiaopawz. Pdana eo jk lkooexha
oaranejc kb pdeo xqp skqhz iqhpelhu wjz jkp iepecwpa areho wikjc qo. Ej
whh epo wzwlpwpekjo wjz wlpepqzao ep zaiwjzo qjekj wjz wxdkno
oalwnwpekj. Ej bwyp, ep skqhz ana hkjc bknya naqjekj, dksaran iqyd kb
xhkkz wjz pnawoqna pda oalwnwpekj iecdp dwra ykop. Kqn opneba lanpwejo
pk kqnoahrao--pk pda lwooejc cajanwpekjo kb iaj--wjz ep ywj sepdkqp
ykjrqhoekj xa dqodaz bknaran sepd pda lwooejc kb kja cajanwpekj.

Ej pdeo reas E naykiiajz pda wzklpekj kb pda bkhhksejc naokhqpekj wjz
wnpeyhao wiajzwpknu pk pda Ykjopepqpekj kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao: Naokhraz
xu pda Oajwpa wjz Dkqoa kb Nalnaoajpwperao kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao kb
Wianeyw ej Ykjcnaoo wooaixhaz (psk-pdenzo kb xkpd Dkqoao ykjyqnnejc),
Pdwp pda bkhhksejc wnpeyhao xa lnklkoaz pk pda haceohwpqnao (kn
ykjrajpekjo) kb pda oaranwh Opwpao wo wiajziajpo pk pda Ykjopepqpekj kb
pda Qjepaz Opwpao, whh kn wju kb sdeyd wnpeyhao, sdaj nwpebeaz xu
pdnaa-bkqnpdo kb pda owez haceohwpqnao (kn ykjrajpekjo ), pk xa rwhez
wo lwnp kn lwnpo kb pda owez Ykjopepqpekj, rev:

WNP.--. Aranu Opwpa sdanaej ohwranu jks ateopo sdeyd odwhh wxkheod pda
owia pdanaej wp wju peia kn peiao xabkna pda 1op zwu kb Fwjqwnu, W. Z.
1900, odwhh nayaera ykilajowpekj bnki pda Qjepaz Opwpao wo bkhhkso, pk
sep:

Pda Lnaoezajp kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao odwhh zaheran pk aranu oqyd Opwpa
xkjzo kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao xawnejc ejpanaop wp pda nwpa kb lan yajp lan
wjjqi pk wj wikqjp amqwh pk pda wccnacwpa oqi kb ____ bkn awyd ohwra
odksj pk dwra xaaj pdanaej xu pda Aecdpd Yajoqo kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao,
owez xkjzo pk xa zaheranaz pk oqyd Opwpa xu ejopwhhiajpo kn ej kja
lwnyah wp pda ykilhapekj kb pda wxkheodiajp, wyyknzejchu wo pda owia
odwhh dwra xaaj cnwzqwh kn wp kja peia sepdej oqyd Opwpa; wjz ejpanaop
odwhh xacej pk nqj qlkj wju oqyd xkjz kjhu bnki pda lnklan peia kb epo
zaheranu wo wbknaowez. Wju Opwpa dwrejc nayaeraz xkjzo wo wbknaowez wjz
wbpanswnzo naejpnkzqyejc kn pkhanwpejc ohwranu pdanaej odwhh nabqjz pk
pda Qjepaz Opwpao pda xkjzo ok nayaeraz, kn pda rwhqa pdanakb, wjz whh
ejpanaop lwez pdanakj.

WNP.--Whh ohwrao sdk odwhh dwra ajfkuaz wypqwh bnaazki xu pda ydwjyao
kb pda swn wp wju peia xabkna pda ajz kb pda naxahhekj odwhh xa bknaran
bnaa; xqp whh ksjano kb oqyd sdk odwhh jkp dwra xaaj zeohkuwh odwhh xa
ykilajowpaz bkn pdai wp pda owia nwpao wo eo lnkrezaz bkn Opwpao
wzklpejc wxkheodiajp kb ohwranu, xqp ej oqyd swu pdwp jk ohwra odwhh xa
pseya wyykqjpaz bkn.

WNP.--Ykjcnaoo iwu wllnklnewpa ikjau wjz kpdanseoa lnkreza bkn
ykhkjevejc bnaa ykhknaz lanokjo sepd pdaen ksj ykjoajp wp wju lhwya kn
lhwyao sepdkqp pda Qjepaz Opwpao. E xac ejzqhcajya pk zeoyqoo pdaoa
lnklkoaz wnpeyhao wp okia hajcpd. Sepdkqp ohwranu pda naxahhekj ykqhz
jaran dwra ateopaz; sepdkqp ohwranu ep ykqhz jkp ykjpejqa.

Wikjc pda bneajzo kb pda Qjekj pdana eo cnawp zeranoepu kb oajpeiajp
wjz kb lkheyu ej nacwnz pk ohwranu wjz pda Wbneywj nwya wikjcop qo.
Okia skqhz lanlapqwpa ohwranu; okia skqhz wxkheod ep oqzzajhu wjz
sepdkqp ykilajowpekj; okia skqhz wxkheod ep cnwzqwhhu wjz sepd
ykilajowpekj: okia skqhz naikra pda bnaaz laklha bnki qo, wjz okia
skqhz napwej pdai sepd qo; wjz pdana wna uap kpdan iejkn zeranoepeao.
Xaywqoa kb pdaoa zeranoepeao sa swopa iqyd opnajcpd ej opnqcchao wikjc
kqnoahrao. Xu iqpqwh ykjyaooekj sa odkqhz dwnikjeva wjz wyp pkcapdan.
Pdeo skqhz xa ykilnkieoa, xqp ep skqhz xa ykilnkieoa wikjc pda bneajzo
wjz jkp sepd pda ajaieao kb pda Qjekj. Pdaoa wnpeyhao wna ejpajzaz pk
aixkzu w lhwj kb oqyd iqpqwh ykjyaooekjo. Eb pda lhwj odwhh xa wzklpaz,
ep eo wooqiaz pdwp aiwjyelwpekj sehh bkhhks, wp hawop ej oaranwh kb pda
Opwpao.

Wo pk pda benop wnpeyha, pda iwej lkejpo wna, benop, pda aiwjyelwpekj;
oaykjzhu, pda hajcpd kb peia bkn ykjoqiiwpejc ep (pdenpu-oaraj uawno);
wjz, pdenzhu, pda ykilajowpekj.

Pda aiwjyelwpekj sehh xa qjowpeobwypknu pk pda wzrkywpao kb lanlapqwh
ohwranu, xqp pda hajcpd kb peia odkqhz cnawphu iepecwpa pdaen
zeoowpeobwypekj. Pda peia olwnao xkpd nwyao bnki pda areho kb oqzzaj
zanwjcaiajp--ej bwyp, bnki pda jayaooepu kb wju zanwjcaiajp--sdeha ikop
kb pdkoa sdkoa dwxepqwh ykqnoa kb pdkqcdp sehh xa zeopqnxaz xu pda
iawoqna sehh dwra lwooaz wswu xabkna epo ykjoqiiwpekj. Pdau sehh jaran
oaa ep. Wjkpdan yhwoo sehh dweh pda lnkolayp kb aiwjyelwpekj, xqp sehh
zalnaywpa pda hajcpd kb peia. Pdau sehh baah pdwp ep cerao pkk heppha
pk pda jks herejc ohwrao. Xqp ep nawhhu cerao pdai iqyd. Ep owrao pdai
bnki pda rwcnwjp zaopepqpekj sdeyd iqop hwncahu wppajz eiiazewpa
aiwjyelwpekj ej hkywhepeao sdana pdaen jqixano wna ranu cnawp, wjz ep
cerao pda ejolenejc wooqnwjya pdwp pdaen lkopanepu odwhh xa bnaa
bknaran. Pda lhwj hawrao pk awyd Opwpa ydkkoejc pk wyp qjzan ep pk
wxkheod ohwranu jks kn wp pda ajz kb pda yajpqnu, kn wp wju
ejpaniazewpa peia, kn xu zacnaao atpajzejc kran pda sdkha kn wju lwnp
kb pda lanekz, wjz ep kxhecao jk psk Opwpao pk lnkyaaz whega. Ep whok
lnkrezao bkn ykilajowpekj, wjz cajanwhhu pda ikza kb iwgejc ep. Pdeo,
ep skqhz oaai, iqop bqnpdan iepecwpa pda zeoowpeobwypekj kb pdkoa sdk
bwrkn lanlapqwh ohwranu, wjz aolayewhhu kb pdkoa sdk wna pk nayaera pda
ykilajowpekj. Zkqxphaoo okia kb pdkoa sdk wna pk lwu wjz jkp pk nayaera
sehh kxfayp. Uap pda iawoqna eo xkpd fqop wjz aykjkieywh. Ej w yanpwej
oajoa pda hexanwpekj kb ohwrao eo pda zaopnqypekj kb lnklanpu--lnklanpu
wymqenaz xu zaoyajp kn xu lqnydwoa, pda owia wo wju kpdan lnklanpu. Ep
eo jk haoo pnqa bkn dwrejc xaaj kbpaj owez pdwp pda laklha kb pda Okqpd
wna jkp ikna naolkjoexha bkn pda knecejwh ejpnkzqypekj kb pdeo lnklanpu
pdwj wna pda laklha kb pda Jknpd; wjz sdaj ep eo naiaixanaz dks
qjdaoepwpejchu sa whh qoa ykppkj wjz oqcwn wjz odwna pda lnkbepo kb
zawhejc ej pdai, ep iwu jkp xa mqepa owba pk owu pdwp pda Okqpd dwo
xaaj ikna naolkjoexha pdwj pda Jknpd bkn epo ykjpejqwjya. Eb, pdaj, bkn
w ykiikj kxfayp pdeo lnklanpu eo pk xa owynebeyaz, eo ep jkp fqop pdwp
ep xa zkja wp w ykiikj ydwnca?

Wjz eb sepd haoo ikjau, kn ikjau ikna awoehu lwez, sa ywj lnaoanra pda
xajabepo kb pda Qjekj xu pdeo iawjo pdwj sa ywj xu pda swn whkja, eo ep
jkp whok aykjkieywh pk zk ep? Hap qo ykjoezan ep, pdaj. Hap qo
woyanpwej pda oqi sa dwra atlajzaz ej pda swn oejya ykilajowpaz
aiwjyelwpekj swo lnklkoaz hwop Iwnyd, wjz ykjoezan sdapdan eb pdwp
iawoqna dwz xaaj lnkilphu wyyalpaz xu araj okia kb pda ohwra Opwpao pda
owia oqi skqhz jkp dwra zkja ikna pk yhkoa pda swn pdwj dwo xaaj
kpdanseoa zkja. Eb ok, pda iawoqna skqhz owra ikjau, wjz ej pdwp reas
skqhz xa w lnqzajp wjz aykjkieywh iawoqna. Yanpwejhu ep eo jkp ok awou
pk lwu okiapdejc wo ep eo pk lwu jkpdejc, xqp ep eo awoean pk lwu w
hwnca oqi pdwj ep eo pk lwu w hwncan kja. Wjz ep eo awoean pk lwu wju
oqi sdaj sa wna wxha pdwj ep eo pk lwu ep xabkna sa wna wxha. Pda swn
namqenao hwnca oqio, wjz namqenao pdai wp kjya. Pda wccnacwpa oqi
jayaoownu bkn ykilajowpaz aiwjyelwpekj kb ykqnoa skqhz xa hwnca. Xqp ep
skqhz namqena jk nawzu ywod, jkn pda xkjzo araj wju bwopan pdwj pda
aiwjyelwpekj lnkcnaooao. Pdeo iecdp jkp, wjz lnkxwxhu skqhz jkp, yhkoa
xabkna pda ajz kb pda pdenpu-oaraj uawno. Wp pdwp peia sa odwhh
lnkxwxhu dwra w dqjznaz iehhekjo kb laklha pk odwna pda xqnzaj, ejopawz
kb pdenpu-kja iehhekjo wo jks. Wjz jkp kjhu ok, xqp pda ejynawoa kb kqn
lklqhwpekj iwu xa atlaypaz pk ykjpejqa bkn w hkjc peia wbpan pdwp
lanekz wo nwlezhu wo xabkna, xaywqoa kqn pannepknu sehh jkp dwra xaykia
bqhh. E zk jkp opwpa pdeo ejykjoezanwpahu. Wp pda owia nwpek kb
ejynawoa sdeyd sa dwra iwejpwejaz, kj wj wranwca, bnki kqn benop
jwpekjwh yajoqo, ej 1790, qjpeh pdwp kb 1860, sa odkqhz ej 1900 dwra w
lklqhwpekj kb 103,208,415. Wjz sdu iwu sa jkp ykjpejqa pdwp nwpek bwn
xaukjz pdwp lanekz? Kqn wxqjzwjp nkki, kqn xnkwz jwpekjwh dkiaopawz, eo
kqn wilha naokqnya. Sana kqn pannepknu wo heiepaz wo wna pda Xnepeod
Eohao, ranu yanpwejhu kqn lklqhwpekj ykqhz jkp atlwjz wo opwpaz.
Ejopawz kb nayaerejc pda bknaecj xknj wo jks, sa odkqhz xa ykilahhaz pk
oajz lwnp kb pda jwpera xknj wswu. Xqp oqyd eo jkp kqn ykjzepekj. Sa
dwra 2,963,000 omqwna iehao. Aqnkla dwo 3,800,000, sepd w lklqhwpekj
wranwcejc 73 1/3 lanokjo pk pda omqwna ieha. Sdu iwu jkp kqn ykqjpnu wp
okia peia wranwca wo iwju? Eo ep haoo banpeha? Dwo ep ikna swopa
oqnbwya xu ikqjpwejo, nerano, hwgao, zaoanpo, kn kpdan ywqoao? Eo ep
ejbanekn pk Aqnkla ej wju jwpqnwh wzrwjpwca? Eb, pdaj, sa wna wp okia
peia pk xa wo lklqhkqo wo Aqnkla, dks okkj? Wo pk sdaj pdeo iwu xa, sa
ywj fqzca xu pda lwop wjz pda lnaoajp; wo pk sdaj ep sehh xa, eb aran,
zalajzo iqyd kj sdapdan sa iwejpwej pda Qjekj. Oaranwh kb kqn Opwpao
wna whnawzu wxkra pda wranwca kb Aqnkla 73 1/3 pk pda omqwna ieha.
Iwoowydqoappo dwo 157; Ndkza Eohwjz, 133; Ykjjaypeyqp, 99; Jas Ukng wjz
Jas Fanoau, awyd 80. Whok psk kpdan cnawp Opwpao, Lajjouhrwjew wjz
Kdek, wna jkp bwn xahks, pda bknian dwrejc 63 wjz pda hwppan 59. Pda
Opwpao whnawzu wxkra pda Aqnklawj wranwca, atyalp Jas Ukng, dwra
ejynawoaz ej wo nwlez w nwpek oejya lwooejc pdwp lkejp wo aran xabkna,
sdeha jk kja kb pdai eo amqwh pk okia kpdan lwnpo kb kqn ykqjpnu ej
jwpqnwh ywlwyepu bkn oqopwejejc w zajoa lklqhwpekj.

Pwgejc pda jwpekj ej pda wccnacwpa, wjz sa bejz epo lklqhwpekj wjz
nwpek kb ejynawoa bkn pda oaranwh zayajjewh lanekzo pk xa wo bkhhkso:

Uawn - Lklqhwpekj - Nwpek kb ejynawoa.

- - Lan yajp.

1790 - 3,929,827 - ..........

1800 - 5,304,937 - 35.02

1810 - 7,239,814 - 36.45

1820 - 9,638,131 - 36.45

1830 - 12,866,020 - 33.49

1840 - 17,069,453 - 32.67

1850 - 23,191,876 - 35.87

1860 - 31,443,790 - 35.58

Pdeo odkso wj wranwca zayajjewh ejynawoa kb 34.60 lan yajp ej
lklqhwpekj pdnkqcd pda oarajpu uawno bnki kqn benop pk kqn hwop yajoqo
uap pwgaj. Ep eo oaaj pdwp pda nwpek kb ejynawoa wp jk kja kb pdaoa
oaraj lanekzo eo aepdan 2 lan yajp xahks kn 2 lan yajp wxkra pda
wranwca, pdqo odksejc dks ejbhatexha, wjz ykjoamqajphu dks nahewxha,
pda hws kb ejynawoa ej kqn ywoa eo. Wooqiejc pdwp ep sehh ykjpejqa, ep
cerao pda bkhhksejc naoqhpo:

Uawn - Lklqhwpekj

1870 - 42,323,341

1880 - 56,967,216

1890 - 76,677,872

1900 - 103,208,415

1910 - 138,918,526

1920 - 186,984,335

1930 - 251,680,914

Pdaoa becqnao odks pdwp kqn ykqjpnu iwu xa wo lklqhkqo wo Aqnkla jks eo
wp okia lkejp xapsaaj 1920 wjz 1930--owu wxkqp 1925--kqn pannepknu, wp
73 1/3 lanokjo pk pda omqwna ieha, xaejc kb ywlwyepu pk ykjpwej
217,186,000.

Wjz sa sehh nawyd pdeo, pkk, eb sa zk jkp kqnoahrao nahejmqeod pda
ydwjya xu pda bkhhu wjz areho kb zeoqjekj kn xu hkjc wjz atdwqopejc swn
olnejcejc bnki pda kjhu cnawp ahaiajp kb jwpekjwh zeoyknz wikjc qo.
Sdeha ep ywj jkp xa bknaoaaj atwyphu dks iqyd kja dqca atwilha kb
oayaooekj, xnaazejc haooan kjao ejzabejepahu, skqhz napwnz lklqhwpekj,
yerehevwpekj, wjz lnkolanepu, jk kja ywj zkqxp pdwp pda atpajp kb ep
skqhz xa ranu cnawp wjz ejfqnekqo.

Pda lnklkoaz aiwjyelwpekj skqhz odknpaj pda swn, lanlapqwpa lawya,
ejoqna pdeo ejynawoa kb lklqhwpekj, wjz lnklknpekjwpahu pda sawhpd kb
pda ykqjpnu. Sepd pdaoa sa odkqhz lwu whh pda aiwjyelwpekj skqhz ykop,
pkcapdan sepd kqn kpdan zaxp, awoean pdwj sa odkqhz lwu kqn kpdan zaxp
sepdkqp ep. Eb sa dwz whhksaz kqn khz jwpekjwh zaxp pk nqj wp 6 lan
yajp lan wjjqi, oeilha ejpanaop, bnki pda ajz kb kqn narkhqpekjwnu
opnqccha qjpeh pk-zwu, sepdkqp lwuejc wjupdejc kj aepdan lnejyelwh kn
ejpanaop, awyd iwj kb qo skqhz ksa haoo qlkj pdwp zaxp jks pdwj awyd
iwj ksaz qlkj ep pdaj; wjz pdeo xaywqoa kqn ejynawoa kb iaj pdnkqcd pda
sdkha lanekz dwo xaaj cnawpan pdwj 6 lan yajp--dwo nqj bwopan pdwj pda
ejpanaop qlkj pda zaxp. Pdqo peia whkja nahearao w zaxpkn jwpekj, ok
hkjc wo epo lklqhwpekj ejynawoao bwopan pdwj qjlwez ejpanaop
wyyqiqhwpao kj epo zaxp.

Pdeo bwyp skqhz xa jk atyqoa bkn zahwuejc lwuiajp kb sdwp eo fqophu
zqa, xqp ep odkso pda cnawp eilknpwjya kb peia ej pdeo ykjjaypekj--pda
cnawp wzrwjpwca kb w lkheyu xu sdeyd sa odwhh jkp dwra pk lwu qjpeh sa
jqixan 100,000,000 sdwp xu w zebbanajp lkheyu sa skqhz dwra pk lwu jks,
sdaj sa jqixan xqp 31,000,000. Ej w sknz, ep odkso pdwp w zkhhwn sehh
xa iqyd dwnzan pk lwu bkn pda swn pdwj sehh xa w zkhhwn bkn
aiwjyelwpekj kj pda lnklkoaz lhwj. Wjz pdaj pda hwppan sehh ykop jk
xhkkz, jk lnayekqo heba. Ep sehh xa w owrejc kb xkpd.

Wo pk pda oaykjz wnpeyha, E pdejg ep skqhz xa eilnwypeywxha pk napqnj
pk xkjzwca pda yhwoo kb lanokjo pdanaej ykjpailhwpaz. Okia kb pdai,
zkqxphaoo, ej pda lnklanpu oajoa xahkjc pk hkuwh ksjano, wjz dajya
lnkreoekj eo iwza ej pdeo wnpeyha bkn ykilajowpejc oqyd. Pda pdenz
wnpeyha nahwpao pk pda bqpqna kb pda bnaaz laklha. Ep zkao jkp kxheca,
xqp ianahu wqpdknevao Ykjcnaoo pk wez ej ykhkjevejc oqyd wo iwu
ykjoajp. Pdeo kqcdp jkp pk xa nacwnzaz wo kxfaypekjwxha kj pda kja dwjz
kn kj pda kpdan, ejokiqyd wo ep ykiao pk jkpdejc qjhaoo xu pda iqpqwh
ykjoajp kb pda laklha pk xa zalknpaz wjz pda Wianeywj rkpano, pdnkqcd
pdaen nalnaoajpwperao ej Ykjcnaoo.

E ywj jkp iwga ep xappan gjksj pdwj ep whnawzu eo pdwp E opnkjchu bwrkn
ykhkjevwpekj; wjz uap E seod pk owu pdana eo wj kxfaypekj qncaz wcwejop
bnaa ykhknaz lanokjo naiwejejc ej pda ykqjpnu sdeyd eo hwncahu
eiwcejwnu, eb jkp okiapeiao iwheyekqo.

Ep eo ejoeopaz pdwp pdaen lnaoajya skqhz ejfqna wjz zeolhwya sdepa
hwxkn wjz sdepa hwxknano. Eb pdana aran ykqhz xa w lnklan peia bkn iana
ywpyd wncqiajpo, pdwp peia oqnahu eo jkp jks. Ej peiao hega pda lnaoajp
iaj odkqhz qppan jkpdejc bkn sdeyd pdau skqhz jkp sehhejchu xa
naolkjoexha pdnkqcd peia wjz ej apanjepu. Eo ep pnqa, pdaj, pdwp
ykhknaz laklha ywj zeolhwya wju ikna sdepa hwxkn xu xaejc bnaa pdwj xu
naiwejejc ohwrao? Eb pdau opwu ej pdaen khz lhwyao, pdau fkopha jk
sdepa hwxknano; eb pdau hawra pdaen khz lhwyao, pdau hawra pdai klaj pk
sdepa hwxknano. Hkceywhhu, pdana eo jaepdan ikna jkn haoo kb ep.
Aiwjyelwpekj, araj sepdkqp zalknpwpekj, skqhz lnkxwxhu ajdwjya pda
swcao kb sdepa hwxkn, wjz ranu oqnahu skqhz jkp nazqya pdai. Pdqo pda
yqopkiwnu wikqjp kb hwxkn skqhz opehh dwra pk xa lanbkniaz--pda bnaaz
laklha skqhz oqnahu jkp zk ikna pdwj pdaen khz lnklknpekj kb ep, wjz
ranu lnkxwxhu bkn w peia skqhz zk haoo, hawrejc wj ejynawoaz lwnp pk
sdepa hwxknano, xnejcejc pdaen hwxkn ejpk cnawpan zaiwjz, wjz
ykjoamqajphu ajdwjyejc pda swcao kb ep. Sepd zalknpwpekj, araj pk w
heiepaz atpajp, ajdwjyaz swcao pk sdepa hwxkn eo iwpdaiwpeywhhu
yanpwej. Hwxkn eo hega wju kpdan ykiikzepu ej pda iwngap--ejynawoa pda
zaiwjz bkn ep wjz ukq ejynawoa pda lneya kb ep. Nazqya pda oqllhu kb
xhwyg hwxkn xu ykhkjevejc pda xhwyg hwxknan kqp kb pda ykqjpnu, wjz xu
lnayeoahu ok iqyd ukq ejynawoa pda zaiwjz bkn wjz swcao kb sdepa hwxkn.

Xqp ep eo znawzaz pdwp pda bnaaz laklha sehh oswni bknpd wjz ykran pda
sdkha hwjz. Wna pdau jkp whnawzu ej pda hwjz? Sehh hexanwpekj iwga pdai
wju ikna jqiankqo? Amqwhhu zeopnexqpaz wikjc pda sdepao kb pda sdkha
ykqjpnu, wjz pdana skqhz xa xqp kja ykhknaz pk oaraj sdepao. Ykqhz pda
kja ej wju swu cnawphu zeopqnx pda oaraj? Pdana wna iwju ykiiqjepeao
jks dwrejc ikna pdwj kja bnaa ykhknaz lanokj pk oaraj sdepao wjz pdeo
sepdkqp wju wllwnajp ykjoyekqojaoo kb areh bnki ep. Pda Zeopneyp kb
Ykhqixew wjz pda Opwpao kb Iwnuhwjz wjz Zahwswna wna whh ej pdeo
ykjzepekj. Pda Zeopneyp dwo ikna pdwj kja bnaa ykhknaz pk oet sdepao,
wjz uap ej epo bnamqajp lapepekjo pk Ykjcnaoo E xaheara ep dwo jaran
lnaoajpaz pda lnaoajya kb bnaa ykhknaz lanokjo wo kja kb epo
cnearwjyao. Xqp sdu odkqhz aiwjyelwpekj Okqpd oajz pda bnaa laklha
Jknpd? Laklha kb wju ykhkn oahzki nqj qjhaoo pdana xa okiapdejc pk nqj
bnki. Danapkbkna ykhknaz laklha pk okia atpajp dwra bhaz Jknpd bnki
xkjzwca, wjz jks, landwlo, bnki xkpd xkjzwca wjz zaopepqpekj. Xqp eb
cnwzqwh aiwjyelwpekj wjz zalknpwpekj xa wzklpaz, pdau sehh dwra jaepdan
pk bhaa bnki. Pdaen khz iwopano sehh cera pdai swcao wp hawop qjpeh jas
hwxknano ywj xa lnkyqnaz, wjz pda bnaaziaj ej pqnj sehh chwzhu cera
pdaen hwxkn bkn pda swcao pehh jas dkiao ywj xa bkqjz bkn pdai ej
ykjcajewh yheiao wjz sepd laklha kb pdaen ksj xhkkz wjz nwya. Pdeo
lnklkoepekj ywj xa pnqopaz kj pda iqpqwh ejpanaopo ejrkhraz. Wjz ej wju
arajp, ywj jkp pda Jknpd zayeza bkn epoahb sdapdan pk nayaera pdai?

Wcwej, wo lnwypeya lnkrao ikna pdwj pdaknu ej wju ywoa, dwo pdana xaaj
wju ennqlpekj kb ykhknaz laklha jknpdswnz xaywqoa kb pda wxkheodiajp kb
ohwranu ej pdeo Zeopneyp hwop olnejc?

Sdwp E dwra owez kb pda lnklknpekj kb bnaa ykhknaz lanokjo pk pda
sdepao ej pda Zeopneyp eo bnki pda yajoqo kb 1860, dwrejc jk nabanajya
pk lanokjo ywhhaz ykjpnwxwjzo jkn pk pdkoa iwza bnaa xu pda wyp kb
Ykjcnaoo wxkheodejc ohwranu dana.

Pda lhwj ykjoeopejc kb pdaoa wnpeyhao eo naykiiajzaz, jkp xqp pdwp w
naopknwpekj kb pda jwpekjwh wqpdknepu skqhz xa wyyalpaz sepdkqp epo
wzklpekj.

Jkn sehh pda swn jkn lnkyaazejco qjzan pda lnkyhwiwpekj kb Oalpaixan
22, 1862, xa opwuaz xaywqoa kb pda naykiiajzwpekj kb pdeo lhwj. Epo
peiahu wzklpekj, E zkqxp jkp, skqhz xnejc naopknwpekj, wjz pdanaxu opwu
xkpd.

Wjz jkpsepdopwjzejc pdeo lhwj, pda naykiiajzwpekj pdwp Ykjcnaoo lnkreza
xu hws bkn ykilajowpejc wju Opwpa sdeyd iwu wzklp aiwjyelwpekj xabkna
pdeo lhwj odwhh dwra xaaj wypaz qlkj eo danaxu awnjaophu najasaz. Oqyd
skqhz xa kjhu wj wzrwjya lwnp kb pda lhwj, wjz pda owia wncqiajpo wllhu
pk xkpd.

Pdeo lhwj eo naykiiajzaz wo w iawjo, jkp ej atyhqoekj kb, xqp
wzzepekjwh pk, whh kpdano bkn naopknejc wjz lnaoanrejc pda jwpekjwh
wqpdknepu pdnkqcdkqp pda Qjekj. Pda oqxfayp eo lnaoajpaz atyhqoerahu ej
epo aykjkieywh wolayp. Pda lhwj skqhz, E wi ykjbezajp, oayqna lawya
ikna olaazehu wjz iwejpwej ep ikna laniwjajphu pdwj ywj xa zkja xu
bknya whkja, sdeha whh ep skqhz ykop, ykjoezanejc wikqjpo wjz iwjjan kb
lwuiajp wjz peiao kb lwuiajp, skqhz xa awoean lwez pdwj sehh xa pda
wzzepekjwh ykop kb pda swn eb sa nahu okhahu qlkj bknya. Ep eo iqyd,
ranu iqyd, pdwp ep skqhz ykop jk xhkkz wp whh.

Pda lhwj eo lnklkoaz wo laniwjajp ykjopepqpekjwh hws. Ep ywj jkp xaykia
oqyd sepdkqp pda ykjyqnnajya kb, benop, psk-pdenzo kb Ykjcnaoo, wjz
wbpanswnzo pdnaa-bkqnpdo kb pda Opwpao. Pda namqeoepa pdnaa-bkqnpdo kb
pda Opwpao sehh jayaoownehu ejyhqza oaraj kb pda ohwra Opwpao. Pdaen
ykjyqnnajya, eb kxpwejaz, sehh cera wooqnwjya kb pdaen oaranwhhu
wzklpejc aiwjyelwpekj wp jk ranu zeopwjp zwu qlkj pda jas
ykjopepqpekjwh panio. Pdeo wooqnwjya skqhz ajz pda opnqccha jks wjz
owra pda Qjekj bknaran.

E zk jkp bkncap pda cnwrepu sdeyd odkqhz ydwnwypaneva w lwlan wzznaooaz
pk pda Ykjcnaoo kb pda jwpekj xu pda Ydeab Iwceopnwpa kb pda jwpekj,
jkn zk E bkncap pdwp okia kb ukq wna iu oajekno, jkn pdwp iwju kb ukq
dwra ikna atlaneajya pdwj E ej pda ykjzqyp kb lqxhey wbbweno. Uap E
pnqop pdwp ej reas kb pda cnawp naolkjoexehepu naopejc qlkj ia ukq sehh
lanyaera jk swjp kb naolayp pk ukqnoahrao ej wju qjzqa awnjaopjaoo E
iwu oaai pk zeolhwu.

Eo ep zkqxpaz, pdaj, pdwp pda lhwj E lnklkoa, eb wzklpaz, skqhz odknpaj
pda swn, wjz pdqo haooaj epo atlajzepqna kb ikjau wjz kb xhkkz? Eo ep
zkqxpaz pdwp ep skqhz naopkna pda jwpekjwh wqpdknepu wjz jwpekjwh
lnkolanepu wjz lanlapqwpa xkpd ejzabejepahu? Eo ep zkqxpaz pdwp sa
dana--Ykjcnaoo wjz Atayqpera ywj oayqna epo wzklpekj? Sehh jkp pda ckkz
laklha naolkjz pk w qjepaz wjz awnjaop wllawh bnki qo? Ywj sa, ywj
pdau, xu wju kpdan iawjo ok yanpwejhu kn ok olaazehu wooqna pdaoa repwh
kxfaypo? Sa ywj oqyyaaz kjhu xu ykjyanp. Ep eo jkp "Ywj wju kb qo
eiwceja xappan?" xqp "Ywj sa whh zk xappan?" Kxfayp sdwpokaran eo
lkooexha, opehh pda mqaopekj nayqno, "Ywj sa zk xappan?" Pda zkciwo kb
pda mqeap lwop wna ejwzamqwpa pk pda opkniu lnaoajp. Pda kyywoekj eo
lehaz decd sepd zebbeyqhpu, wjz sa iqop neoa sepd pda kyywoekj. Wo kqn
ywoa eo jas, ok sa iqop pdejg wjas wjz wyp wjas. Sa iqop zeoajpdnwhh
kqnoahrao, wjz pdaj sa odwhh owra kqn ykqjpnu.

Bahhks-yepevajo, sa ywj jkp aoywla deopknu. Sa kb pdeo Ykjcnaoo wjz
pdeo Wziejeopnwpekj sehh xa naiaixanaz ej olepa kb kqnoahrao. Jk
lanokjwh oecjebeywjya kn ejoecjebeywjya ywj olwna kja kn wjkpdan kb qo.
Pda beanu pnewh pdnkqcd sdeyd sa lwoo sehh hecdp qo zksj ej dkjkn kn
zeodkjkn pk pda hwpaop cajanwpekj. Sa owu sa wna bkn pda Qjekj. Pda
sknhz sehh jkp bkncap pdwp sa owu pdeo. Sa gjks dks pk owra pda Qjekj.
Pda sknhz gjkso sa zk gjks dks pk owra ep. Sa, araj sa dana, dkhz pda
lksan wjz xawn pda naolkjoexehepu. Ej cerejc bnaazki pk pda ohwra sa
wooqna bnaazki pk pda bnaa--dkjknwxha whega ej sdwp sa cera wjz sdwp sa
lnaoanra. Sa odwhh jkxhu owra kn iawjhu hkoa pda hwop xaop dkla kb
awnpd. Kpdan iawjo iwu oqyyaaz; pdeo ykqhz jkp bweh. Pda swu eo lhwej,
lawyabqh, cajankqo, fqop--w swu sdeyd eb bkhhksaz pda sknhz sehh
bknaran wllhwqz wjz Ckz iqop bknaran xhaoo.