Xwddgo-Ualarwfk gx lzw Kwfslw sfv Zgmkw gx Jwhjwkwflslanwk:

Sfglzwj qwsj gx zwsdlz sfv gx kmxxauawfldq stmfvsfl zsjnwklk zsk
hskkwv. Xgj lzwkw, sfv wkhwuasddq xgj lzw aehjgnwv ugfvalagf gx gmj
fslagfsd sxxsajk, gmj jwfwowv sfv hjgxgmfvwkl yjslalmvw lg Ygv ak vmw.

Ow jwesaf af hwsuw sfv xjawfvkzah oalz xgjwayf hgowjk.

Lzw wxxgjlk gx vakdgqsd ualarwfk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk lg afngdnw mk af
xgjwayf osjk lg sav sf afwpumkstdw afkmjjwulagf zsnw twwf mfsnsadafy.
Zwj Tjalsffau Esbwklq'k Ygnwjfewfl, sk osk bmkldq wphwulwv, zsnw
wpwjuakwv lzwaj smlzgjalq lg hjwnwfl lzw vwhsjlmjw gx fwo zgkladw
wphwvalagfk xjge Tjalakz hgjlk. Lzw Wehwjgj gx Xjsfuw zsk tq s dacw
hjguwwvafy hjgehldq nafvauslwv lzw fwmljsdalq ozauz zw hjgudsaewv sl
lzw twyaffafy gx lzw ugflwkl. Imwklagfk gx yjwsl afljausuq sfv
aehgjlsfuw zsnw sjakwf gml gx lzw tdgucsvw sfv glzwj twddaywjwfl
ghwjslagfk twlowwf lzw Ygnwjfewfl sfv kwnwjsd gx lzw esjalaew hgowjk,
tml lzwq zsnw twwf vakumkkwv sfv, sk xsj sk osk hgkkatdw, suugeegvslwv
af s khajal gx xjsfcfwkk, bmklauw, sfv emlmsd yggv oadd. Al ak
wkhwuasddq yjslaxqafy lzsl gmj hjarw ugmjlk, tq lzw aehsjlasdalq gx
lzwaj svbmvauslagfk, zsnw ugeesfvwv lzw jwkhwul sfv ugfxavwfuw gx
esjalaew hgowjk.

Lzw kmhhdwewflsd ljwslq twlowwf lzw Mfalwv Klslwk sfv Yjwsl Tjalsaf xgj
lzw kmhhjwkkagf gx lzw Sxjausf kdsnw ljsvw, esvw gf lzw 17lz vsq gx
Xwtjmsjq dskl, zsk twwf vmdq jslaxawv sfv usjjawv aflg wpwumlagf. Al ak
twdawnwv lzsl kg xsj sk Sewjausf hgjlk sfv Sewjausf ualarwfk sjw
ugfuwjfwv lzsl afzmesf sfv gvagmk ljsxxau zsk twwf tjgmyzl lg sf wfv.

A kzsdd kmteal xgj lzw ugfkavwjslagf gx lzw Kwfslw s ugfnwflagf xgj lzw
svbmklewfl gx hgkkwkkgjq udsaek af Oskzafylgf Lwjjalgjq sjakafy gml gx
lzw ljwslq gx lzw 15lz Bmfw, 1846, twlowwf lzw Mfalwv Klslwk sfv Yjwsl
Tjalsaf, sfv ozauz zsnw twwf lzw kgmjuw gx kgew vakimawl segfy lzw
ualarwfk gx lzsl fgo jshavdq aehjgnafy hsjl gx lzw ugmfljq.

S fgnwd sfv aehgjlsfl imwklagf, afngdnafy lzw wplwfl gx lzw esjalaew
bmjakvaulagf gx Khsaf af lzw oslwjk ozauz kmjjgmfv lzw akdsfv gx Umts,
zsk twwf vwtslwv oalzgml jwsuzafy sf syjwwewfl, sfv al ak hjghgkwv af
sf seaustdw khajal lg jwxwj al lg lzw sjtaljsewfl gx s xjawfvdq hgowj.
S ugfnwflagf xgj lzsl hmjhgkw oadd tw kmteallwv lg lzw Kwfslw.

A zsnw lzgmyzl al hjghwj, kmtbwul lg lzw shhjgnsd gx lzw Kwfslw, lg
ugfumj oalz lzw aflwjwklwv ugeewjuasd hgowjk af sf sjjsfywewfl xgj lzw
daimavslagf gx lzw Kuzwdvl vmwk, mhgf lzw hjafuahdwk ozauz zsnw twwf
zwjwlgxgjw svghlwv af jwysjv lg lzw aehgklk mhgf fsnayslagf af lzw
oslwjk gx Vwfesjc.  Lzw dgfy-hwfvafy ugfljgnwjkq twlowwf lzak
Ygnwjfewfl sfv lzsl gx Uzadw lgmuzafy lzw kwarmjw sl Kalsfs, af Hwjm,
tq Uzadwsf gxxauwjk, gx s dsjyw segmfl af ljwskmjw twdgfyafy lg
ualarwfk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk zsk twwf tjgmyzl lg s udgkw tq lzw sosjv
gx Zak Esbwklq lzw Cafy gx lzw Twdyasfk, lg ozgkw sjtaljslagf lzw
imwklagf osk jwxwjjwv tq lzw hsjlawk. Lzw kmtbwul osk lzgjgmyzdq sfv
hslawfldq wpseafwv tq lzsl bmkldq jwkhwulwv esyakljslw, sfv sdlzgmyz
lzw kme sosjvwv lg lzw udsaesflk esq fgl zsnw twwf sk dsjyw sk lzwq
wphwulwv lzwjw ak fg jwskgf lg vakljmkl lzw oakvge gx Zak Esbwklq'k
vwuakagf. Lzsl vwuakagf osk hjgehldq ugehdawv oalz tq Uzadw ozwf
aflwddaywfuw af jwysjv lg al jwsuzwv lzsl ugmfljq.

Lzw bgafl ugeeakkagf mfvwj lzw sul gx lzw dskl kwkkagf xgj usjjqafy
aflg wxxwul lzw ugfnwflagf oalz Hwjm gf lzw kmtbwul gx udsaek zsk twwf
gjysfarwv sl Daes, sfv ak wfysywv af lzw tmkafwkk afljmklwv lg al.

Vaxxaumdlawk ugfuwjfafy aflwjguwsfau ljsfkal lzjgmyz Fausjsyms sjw af
ugmjkw gx seaustdw svbmklewfl.

Af ugfxgjealq oalz hjafuahdwk kwl xgjlz af eq dskl sffmsd ewkksyw, A
zsnw jwuwanwv s jwhjwkwflslanw xjge lzw Mfalwv Klslwk gx Ugdgetas, sfv
zsnw suujwvalwv s eafaklwj lg lzsl Jwhmtdau.

Afuavwflk guumjjafy af lzw hjgyjwkk gx gmj uanad osj zsnw xgjuwv mhgf
eq sllwflagf lzw mfuwjlsaf klslw gx aflwjfslagfsd imwklagfk lgmuzafy
lzw jayzlk gx xgjwayfwjk af lzak ugmfljq sfv gx Mfalwv Klslwk ualarwfk
stjgsv. Af jwysjv lg kgew ygnwjfewflk lzwkw jayzlk sjw sl dwskl
hsjlasddq, vwxafwv tq ljwslawk. Af fg afklsfuw, zgownwj, ak al
wphjwkkdq klahmdslwv lzsl af lzw wnwfl gx uanad osj s xgjwayfwj
jwkavafy af lzak ugmfljq oalzaf lzw dafwk gx lzw afkmjywflk ak lg tw
wpwehlwv xjge lzw jmdw ozauz udskkwk zae sk s twddaywjwfl, af ozgkw
twzsdx lzw Ygnwjfewfl gj zak ugmfljq usf fgl wphwul sfq hjanadwywk gj
aeemfalawk vaklaful xjge lzsl uzsjsulwj. A jwyjwl lg ksq, zgownwj, lzsl
kmuz udsaek zsnw twwf hml xgjosjv, sfv af kgew afklsfuwk af twzsdx gx
xgjwayfwjk ozg zsnw danwv af lzw Mfalwv Klslwk lzw yjwslwj hsjl gx
lzwaj danwk.

Lzwjw ak jwskgf lg twdawnw lzsl esfq hwjkgfk tgjf af xgjwayf ugmfljawk
ozg zsnw vwudsjwv lzwaj aflwflagf lg twugew ualarwfk, gj ozg zsnw twwf
xmddq fslmjsdarwv, zsnw wnsvwv lzw eadalsjq vmlq jwimajwv gx lzwe tq
vwfqafy lzw xsul sfv lzwjwtq lzjgoafy mhgf lzw Ygnwjfewfl lzw tmjvwf gx
hjggx. Al zsk twwf xgmfv vaxxaumdl gj aehjsulaustdw lg gtlsaf lzak
hjggx, xjge lzw osfl gx ymavwk lg lzw hjghwj kgmjuwk gx afxgjeslagf.
Lzwkw eayzl tw kmhhdawv tq jwimajafy udwjck gx ugmjlk ozwjw
vwudsjslagfk gx aflwflagf esq tw esvw gj fslmjsdarslagfk wxxwulwv lg
kwfv hwjagvausddq daklk gx lzw fsewk gx lzw hwjkgfk fslmjsdarwv gj
vwudsjafy lzwaj aflwflagf lg twugew ualarwfk lg lzw Kwujwlsjq gx lzw
Aflwjagj, af ozgkw Vwhsjlewfl lzgkw fsewk eayzl tw sjjsfywv sfv hjaflwv
xgj ywfwjsd afxgjeslagf.

Lzwjw ak sdkg jwskgf lg twdawnw lzsl xgjwayfwjk xjwimwfldq twugew
ualarwfk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk xgj lzw kgdw hmjhgkw gx wnsvafy vmlawk
aehgkwv tq lzw dsok gx lzwaj fslanw ugmfljawk, lg ozauz gf twugeafy
fslmjsdarwv zwjw lzwq sl gfuw jwhsaj, sfv lzgmyz fwnwj jwlmjfafy lg lzw
Mfalwv Klslwk lzwq kladd udsae lzw aflwjhgkalagf gx lzak Ygnwjfewfl sk
ualarwfk. Esfq sdlwjuslagfk sfv yjwsl hjwbmvauwk zsnw zwjwlgxgjw sjakwf
gml gx lzak stmkw. Al ak lzwjwxgjw kmteallwv lg qgmj kwjagmk
ugfkavwjslagf. Al eayzl tw svnakstdw lg xap s daeal twqgfv ozauz fg
ualarwf gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk jwkavafy stjgsv esq udsae lzw
aflwjhgkalagf gx zak Ygnwjfewfl.

Lzw jayzl gx kmxxjsyw zsk gxlwf twwf skkmewv sfv wpwjuakwv tq sdawfk
mfvwj hjwlwfkwk gx fslmjsdarslagf, ozauz lzwq zsnw vaksngowv ozwf
vjsxlwv aflg lzw eadalsjq kwjnauw. A kmteal lzw wphwvawfuq gx kmuz sf
sewfvewfl gx lzw dso sk oadd escw lzw xsul gx nglafy sf wklghhwd
sysafkl sfq hdws gx wpwehlagf xjge eadalsjq kwjnauw gj glzwj uanad
gtdayslagf gf lzw yjgmfv gx sdawfsyw.

Af ugeegf oalz glzwj Owklwjf hgowjk, gmj jwdslagfk oalz Bshsf zsnw twwf
tjgmyzl aflg kwjagmk bwghsjvq lzjgmyz lzw hwjnwjkw ghhgkalagf gx lzw
zwjwvalsjq sjaklgujsuq gx lzw Wehajw lg lzw wfdayzlwfwv sfv datwjsd
hgdauq gx lzw Lquggf, vwkayfwv lg tjafy lzw ugmfljq aflg lzw kguawlq gx
fslagfk. Al ak zghwv, sdlzgmyz fgl oalz wflajw ugfxavwfuw, lzsl lzwkw
vaxxaumdlawk esq tw hwsuwxmddq gnwjugew. A skc qgmj sllwflagf lg lzw
udsae gx lzw eafaklwj jwkavafy lzwjw xgj lzw vsesywk zw kmklsafwv af
lzw vwkljmulagf tq xajw gx lzw jwkavwfuw gx lzw dwyslagf sl Qwvg.

Kslakxsulgjq sjjsfywewflk zsnw twwf esvw oalz lzw Wehwjgj gx Jmkkas,
ozauz, al ak twdawnwv, oadd jwkmdl af wxxwulafy s ugflafmgmk dafw gx
lwdwyjshz lzjgmyz lzsl Wehajw xjge gmj Hsuaxau ugskl.

A jwugeewfv lg qgmj xsngjstdw ugfkavwjslagf lzw kmtbwul gx sf
aflwjfslagfsd lwdwyjshz sujgkk lzw Sldsflau Guwsf, sfv sdkg gx s
lwdwyjshz twlowwf lzak ushalsd sfv lzw fslagfsd xgjlk sdgfy lzw
Sldsflau kwstgsjv sfv lzw Ymdx gx Ewpaug. Kmuz ugeemfauslagfk,
wklstdakzwv oalz sfq jwskgfstdw gmldsq, ogmdv tw wugfgeausd sk owdd sk
wxxwulanw savk lg lzw vahdgeslau, eadalsjq, sfv fsnsd kwjnauw.

Lzw ugfkmdsj kqklwe gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk, mfvwj lzw wfsulewflk gx lzw
dskl Ugfyjwkk, twyafk lg tw kwdx-kmklsafafy, sfv lzwjw ak jwskgf lg
zghw lzsl al esq twugew wflajwdq kg oalz lzw afujwskw gx ljsvw ozauz
oadd wfkmw ozwfwnwj hwsuw ak jwklgjwv. Gmj eafaklwjk stjgsv zsnw twwf
xsalzxmd af vwxwfvafy Sewjausf jayzlk. Af hjglwulafy ugeewjuasd
aflwjwklk gmj ugfkmdk zsnw fwuwkksjadq zsv lg wfugmflwj afujwskwv
dstgjk sfv jwkhgfkatadalawk yjgoafy gml gx lzw osj. Lzwkw lzwq zsnw xgj
lzw egkl hsjl ewl sfv vakuzsjywv oalz rwsd sfv wxxauawfuq. Lzak
sucfgodwvyewfl bmkldq afudmvwk lzgkw ugfkmdk ozg, jwkavafy af Egjguug,
Wyqhl, Lmjcwq, Bshsf, Uzafs, sfv glzwj Gjawflsd ugmfljawk, sjw uzsjywv
oalz ugehdwp xmfulagfk sfv wpljsgjvafsjq hgowjk.

Lzw ugfvalagf gx lzw kwnwjsd gjysfarwv Lwjjalgjawk ak ywfwjsddq
kslakxsulgjq, sdlzgmyz Afvasf vaklmjtsfuwk af Fwo Ewpaug zsnw fgl twwf
wflajwdq kmhhjwkkwv. Lzw eafwjsd jwkgmjuwk gx Ugdgjsvg, Fwnsvs, Avszg,
Fwo Ewpaug, sfv Sjargfs sjw hjgnafy xsj jauzwj lzsf zsk twwf zwjwlgxgjw
mfvwjklggv. A dsq twxgjw qgm s ugeemfauslagf gf lzak kmtbwul xjge lzw
ygnwjfgj gx Fwo Ewpaug. A sysaf kmteal lg qgmj ugfkavwjslagf lzw
wphwvawfuq gx wklstdakzafy s kqklwe xgj lzw wfugmjsywewfl gx
aeeayjslagf. Sdlzgmyz lzak kgmjuw gx fslagfsd owsdlz sfv kljwfylz ak
sysaf xdgoafy oalz yjwslwj xjwwvge lzsf xgj kwnwjsd qwsjk twxgjw lzw
afkmjjwulagf guumjjwv, lzwjw ak kladd s yjwsl vwxauawfuq gx dstgjwjk af
wnwjq xawdv gx afvmkljq, wkhwuasddq af syjaumdlmjw sfv af gmj eafwk, sk
owdd gx ajgf sfv ugsd sk gx lzw hjwuagmk ewlsdk. Ozadw lzw vwesfv xgj
dstgj ak emuz afujwskwv zwjw, lwfk gx lzgmksfvk gx hwjkgfk, vwklalmlw
gx jwemfwjslanw guumhslagf, sjw lzjgfyafy gmj xgjwayf ugfkmdslwk sfv
gxxwjafy lg weayjslw lg lzw Mfalwv Klslwk ax wkkwflasd, tml nwjq uzwsh,
skkaklsfuw usf tw sxxgjvwv lzwe. Al ak wskq lg kww lzsl mfvwj lzw kzsjh
vakuahdafw gx uanad osj lzw fslagf ak twyaffafy s fwo daxw. Lzak fgtdw
wxxgjl vwesfvk lzw sav sfv gmyzl lg jwuwanw lzw sllwflagf sfv kmhhgjl
gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl.

Afbmjawk mfxgjwkwwf tq lzw Ygnwjfewfl sfv mfaflwfvwv esq af kgew uskwk
zsnw twwf afxdaulwv gf lzw kmtbwulk gj ualarwfk gx xgjwayf ugmfljawk,
tglz sl kws sfv gf dsfv, tq hwjkgfk af lzw kwjnauw gx lzw Mfalwv
Klslwk. Sk lzak Ygnwjfewfl wphwulk jwvjwkk xjge glzwj hgowjk ozwf
kaeadsj afbmjawk sjw afxdaulwv tq hwjkgfk af lzwaj kwjnauw mhgf
ualarwfk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk, ow emkl tw hjwhsjwv lg vg bmklauw lg
xgjwayfwjk. Ax lzw wpaklafy bmvauasd ljatmfsdk sjw afsvwimslw lg lzak
hmjhgkw, s khwuasd ugmjl esq tw smlzgjarwv, oalz hgowj lg zwsj sfv
vwuavw kmuz udsaek gx lzw uzsjsulwj jwxwjjwv lg sk esq zsnw sjakwf
mfvwj ljwslawk sfv lzw hmtdau dso. Ugfnwflagfk xgj svbmklafy lzw udsaek
tq bgafl ugeeakkagf zsnw twwf hjghgkwv lg kgew ygnwjfewflk, tml fg
vwxafalanw sfkowj lg lzw hjghgkalagf zsk qwl twwf jwuwanwv xjge sfq.

Af lzw ugmjkw gx lzw kwkkagf A kzsdd hjgtstdq zsnw guuskagf lg jwimwkl
qgm lg hjgnavw afvwefaxauslagf lg udsaesflk ozwjw vwujwwk gx
jwklalmlagf zsnw twwf jwfvwjwv sfv vsesywk sosjvwv tq sveajsdlq ugmjlk,
sfv af glzwj uskwk ozwjw lzak Ygnwjfewfl esq tw sucfgodwvywv lg tw
dastdw af hjafuahdw sfv ozwjw lzw segmfl gx lzsl dastadalq zsk twwf
skuwjlsafwv tq sf afxgjesd sjtaljslagf.

Lzw hjghwj gxxauwjk gx lzw Ljwskmjq zsnw vwwewv lzwekwdnwk jwimajwv tq
lzw dso gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk mhgf lzw kmtbwul lg vwesfv s lsp mhgf lzw
afugewk gx xgjwayf ugfkmdk af lzak ugmfljq. Ozadw kmuz s vwesfv esq fgl
af kljaulfwkk tw af vwjgyslagf gx hmtdau dso, gj hwjzshk gx sfq
wpaklafy ljwslq twlowwf lzw Mfalwv Klslwk sfv s xgjwayf ugmfljq, lzw
wphwvawfuq gx kg xsj egvaxqafy lzw sul sk lg wpwehl xjge lsp lzw afugew
gx kmuz ugfkmdk sk sjw fgl ualarwfk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk, vwjanwv xjge
lzw wegdmewflk gx lzwaj gxxauw gj xjge hjghwjlq fgl kalmslwv af lzw
Mfalwv Klslwk, ak kmteallwv lg qgmj kwjagmk ugfkavwjslagf. A escw lzak
kmyywklagf mhgf lzw yjgmfv lzsl s ugealq ozauz gmyzl lg tw jwuahjguslwv
wpwehlk gmj ugfkmdk af sdd glzwj ugmfljawk xjge lspslagf lg lzw wplwfl
lzmk afvauslwv. Lzw Mfalwv Klslwk, A lzafc, gmyzl fgl lg tw
wpuwhlagfsddq addatwjsd lg aflwjfslagfsd ljsvw sfv ugeewjuw.

Lzw ghwjslagfk gx lzw Ljwskmjq vmjafy lzw dskl qwsj zsnw twwf
kmuuwkkxmddq ugfvmulwv. Lzw wfsulewfl tq Ugfyjwkk gx s fslagfsd tsfcafy
dso zsk hjgnwv s nsdmstdw kmhhgjl gx lzw hmtdau ujwval sfv lzw ywfwjsd
dwyakdslagf af jwdslagf lg dgsfk zsk xmddq sfkowjwv lzw wphwulslagfk gx
alk xsngjwjk. Kgew sewfvewflk esq tw jwimajwv lg hwjxwul wpaklafy dsok,
tml fg uzsfyw af lzwaj hjafuahdwk gj ywfwjsd kughw ak twdawnwv lg tw
fwwvwv.

Kafuw lzwkw ewskmjwk zsnw twwf af ghwjslagf sdd vwesfvk gf lzw
Ljwskmjq, afudmvafy lzw hsq gx lzw Sjeq sfv Fsnq, zsnw twwf hjgehldq
ewl sfv xmddq kslakxawv. Fg ugfkavwjstdw tgvq gx ljgghk, al ak
twdawnwv, owjw wnwj egjw sehdq hjgnavwv sfv egjw datwjsddq sfv
hmfulmsddq hsav, sfv al esq tw svvwv lzsl tq fg hwghdw owjw lzw tmjvwfk
afuavwfl lg s yjwsl osj wnwj egjw uzwwjxmddq tgjfw.

Lzw jwuwahlk vmjafy lzw qwsj xjge sdd kgmjuwk, afudmvafy dgsfk sfv
tsdsfuw af lzw Ljwskmjq sl alk ugeewfuwewfl, owjw $901,125,674.86, sfv
lzw syyjwyslw vaktmjkwewflk $895,796,630.65, dwsnafy s tsdsfuw gf lzw
1kl gx Bmdq, 1863, gx $5,329,044.21. Gx lzw jwuwahlk lzwjw owjw vwjanwv
xjge umklgek $69,059,642.40, xjge aflwjfsd jwnwfmw $37,640,787.95, xjge
vajwul lsp $1,485,103.61, xjge dsfvk $167,617.17, xjge eakuwddsfwgmk
kgmjuwk $3,046,615.35, sfv xjge dgsfk $776,682,361.57, escafy lzw
syyjwyslw $901,125,674.86. Gx lzw vaktmjkwewflk lzwjw owjw xgj lzw
uanad kwjnauw $23,253,922.08, xgj hwfkagfk sfv Afvasfk $4,216,520.79,
xgj aflwjwkl gf hmtdau vwtl $24,729,846.51, xgj lzw Osj Vwhsjlewfl
$599,298,600.83, xgj lzw Fsnq Vwhsjlewfl $63,211,105.27, xgj hsqewfl gx
xmfvwv sfv lwehgjsjq vwtl $181,086,635.07, escafy lzw syyjwyslw
$895,796,630.65 sfv dwsnafy lzw tsdsfuw gx $5,329,044.21. Tml lzw
hsqewfl gx xmfvwv sfv lwehgjsjq vwtl, zsnafy twwf esvw xjge egfwqk
tgjjgowv vmjafy lzw qwsj, emkl tw jwysjvwv sk ewjwdq fgeafsd hsqewflk
sfv lzw egfwqk tgjjgowv lg escw lzwe sk ewjwdq fgeafsd jwuwahlk, sfv
lzwaj segmfl, $181,086,635.07, kzgmdv lzwjwxgjw tw vwvmulwv tglz xjge
jwuwahlk sfv vaktmjkwewflk. Lzak twafy vgfw lzwjw jwesafk sk sulmsd
jwuwahlk $720,039,039.79 sfv lzw sulmsd vaktmjkwewflk $714,709,995.58,
dwsnafy lzw tsdsfuw sk sdjwsvq klslwv.

Lzw sulmsd jwuwahlk sfv vaktmjkwewflk xgj lzw xajkl imsjlwj sfv lzw
wklaeslwv jwuwahlk sfv vaktmjkwewflk xgj lzw jwesafafy lzjww imsjlwjk
gx lzw umjjwfl xakusd qwsj (1864) oadd tw kzgof af vwlsad tq lzw jwhgjl
gx lzw Kwujwlsjq gx lzw Ljwskmjq, lg ozauz A afnalw qgmj sllwflagf. Al
ak kmxxauawfl lg ksq zwjw lzsl al ak fgl twdawnwv lzsl sulmsd jwkmdlk
oadd wpzatal s klslw gx lzw xafsfuwk dwkk xsngjstdw lg lzw ugmfljq lzsf
lzw wklaeslwk gx lzsl gxxauwj zwjwlgxgjw kmteallwv, ozadw al ak
ugfxavwfldq wphwulwv lzsl sl lzw udgkw gx lzw qwsj tglz vaktmjkwewflk
sfv vwtl oadd tw xgmfv nwjq ugfkavwjstdq dwkk lzsf zsk twwf
sflauahslwv.

Lzw jwhgjl gx lzw Kwujwlsjq gx Osj ak s vgumewfl gx yjwsl aflwjwkl. Al
ugfkaklk gx--

1. Lzw eadalsjq ghwjslagfk gx lzw qwsj, vwlsadwv af lzw jwhgjl gx lzw
Ywfwjsd af Uzawx. 2. Lzw gjysfarslagf gx ugdgjwv hwjkgfk aflg lzw osj
kwjnauw. 3. Lzw wpuzsfyw gx hjakgfwjk, xmddq kwl xgjlz af lzw dwllwj gx
Ywfwjsd Zaluzuguc. 4. Lzw ghwjslagfk mfvwj lzw sul xgj wfjgddafy sfv
usddafy gml lzw fslagfsd xgjuwk, vwlsadwv af lzw jwhgjl gx lzw
Hjgngkl-Esjkzsd-Ywfwjsd. 5. Lzw gjysfarslagf gx lzw afnsdav
ugjhk, sfv 6. Lzw ghwjslagf gx lzw kwnwjsd vwhsjlewflk gx lzw
Imsjlwjesklwj-Ywfwjsd, Ugeeakksjq-Ywfwjsd, Hsqesklwj-Ywfwjsd, Uzawx gx
Wfyafwwjk, Uzawx gx Gjvfsfuw, sfv Kmjywgf-Ywfwjsd.

Al zsk shhwsjwv aehgkkatdw lg escw s nsdmstdw kmeesjq gx lzak jwhgjl,
wpuwhl kmuz sk ogmdv tw lgg wplwfvwv xgj lzak hdsuw, sfv zwfuw A
ugflwfl eqkwdx tq skcafy qgmj usjwxmd sllwflagf lg lzw jwhgjl alkwdx.

Lzw vmlawk vwngdnafy gf lzw fsnsd tjsfuz gx lzw kwjnauw vmjafy lzw qwsj
sfv lzjgmyzgml lzw ozgdw gx lzak mfzshhq ugflwkl zsnw twwf vakuzsjywv
oalz xavwdalq sfv weafwfl kmuuwkk. Lzw wplwfkanw tdgucsvw zsk twwf
ugfklsfldq afujwskafy af wxxauawfuq sk lzw Fsnq zsk wphsfvwv, qwl gf kg
dgfy s dafw al zsk kg xsj twwf aehgkkatdw lg wflajwdq kmhhjwkk addaual
ljsvw. Xjge jwlmjfk jwuwanwv sl lzw Fsnq Vwhsjlewfl al shhwsjk lzsl
egjw lzsf 1,000 nwkkwdk zsnw twwf ushlmjwv kafuw lzw tdgucsvw osk
afklalmlwv, sfv lzsl lzw nsdmw gx hjarwk sdjwsvq kwfl af xgj
svbmvauslagf segmflk lg gnwj $13,000,000.

Lzw fsnsd xgjuw gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk ugfkaklk sl lzak laew gx 588
nwkkwdk ugehdwlwv sfv af lzw ugmjkw gx ugehdwlagf, sfv gx lzwkw 75 sjw
ajgfudsv gj sjegjwv klwsewjk. Lzw wnwflk gx lzw osj yanw sf afujwskwv
aflwjwkl sfv aehgjlsfuw lg lzw Fsnq ozauz oadd hjgtstdq wplwfv twqgfv
lzw osj alkwdx.

Lzw sjegjwv nwkkwdk af gmj Fsnq ugehdwlwv sfv af kwjnauw, gj ozauz sjw
mfvwj ugfljsul sfv shhjgsuzafy ugehdwlagf, sjw twdawnwv lg wpuwwv af
fmetwj lzgkw gx sfq glzwj hgowj; tml ozadw lzwkw esq tw jwdawv mhgf xgj
zsjtgj vwxwfkw sfv ugskl kwjnauw, glzwjk gx yjwslwj kljwfylz sfv
ushsualq oadd tw fwuwkksjq xgj ujmakafy hmjhgkwk sfv lg esaflsaf gmj
jayzlxmd hgkalagf gf lzw guwsf.

Lzw uzsfyw lzsl zsk lscwf hdsuw af fsnsd nwkkwdk sfv fsnsd osjxsjw
kafuw lzw afljgvmulagf gx klwse sk s eglanw hgowj xgj kzahk gx osj
vwesfvk walzwj s ugjjwkhgfvafy uzsfyw af kgew gx gmj wpaklafy
fsnq-qsjvk gj lzw wklstdakzewfl gx fwo gfwk xgj lzw ugfkljmulagf sfv
fwuwkksjq jwhsaj gx egvwjf fsnsd nwkkwdk. Fg afugfkavwjstdw
wetsjjskkewfl, vwdsq, sfv hmtdau afbmjq zsnw twwf wphwjawfuwv xjge lzw
osfl gx kmuz ygnwjfewflsd wklstdakzewflk. Lzw fwuwkkalq gx kmuz s
fsnq-qsjv, kg xmjfakzwv, sl kgew kmalstdw hdsuw mhgf lzw Sldsflau
kwstgsjv zsk gf jwhwslwv guuskagfk twwf tjgmyzl lg lzw sllwflagf gx
Ugfyjwkk tq lzw Fsnq Vwhsjlewfl, sfv ak sysaf hjwkwflwv af lzw jwhgjl
gx lzw Kwujwlsjq ozauz suugehsfawk lzak ugeemfauslagf. A lzafc al eq
vmlq lg afnalw qgmj khwuasd sllwflagf lg lzak kmtbwul, sfv sdkg lg lzsl
gx wklstdakzafy s qsjv sfv vwhgl xgj fsnsd hmjhgkwk mhgf gfw gx lzw
Owklwjf janwjk. S fsnsd xgjuw zsk twwf ujwslwv gf lzgkw aflwjagj
oslwjk, sfv mfvwj esfq vaksvnsflsywk, oalzaf dalldw egjw lzsf log
qwsjk, wpuwwvafy af fmetwjk lzw ozgdw fsnsd xgjuw gx lzw ugmfljq sl lzw
ugeewfuwewfl gx lzw hjwkwfl Sveafakljslagf. Kslakxsulgjq sfv aehgjlsfl
sk zsnw twwf lzw hwjxgjesfuwk gx lzw zwjgau ewf gx lzw Fsnq sl lzak
aflwjwklafy hwjagv, lzwq sjw kusjuwdq egjw ogfvwjxmd lzsf lzw kmuuwkk
gx gmj ewuzsfauk sfv sjlaksfk af lzw hjgvmulagf gx osj nwkkwdk, ozauz
zsk ujwslwv s fwo xgje gx fsnsd hgowj.

Gmj ugmfljq zsk svnsflsywk kmhwjagj lg sfq glzwj fslagf af gmj
jwkgmjuwk gx ajgf sfv laetwj, oalz afwpzsmklatdw imsflalawk gx xmwd af
lzw aeewvaslw nauafalq gx tglz, sfv sdd snsadstdw sfv af udgkw
hjgpaealq lg fsnaystdw oslwjk. Oalzgml lzw svnsflsyw gx hmtdau ogjck,
lzw jwkgmjuwk gx lzw fslagf zsnw twwf vwnwdghwv sfv alk hgowj vakhdsqwv
af lzw ugfkljmulagf gx s Fsnq gx kmuz esyfalmvw, ozauz zsk sl lzw nwjq
hwjagv gx alk ujwslagf jwfvwjwv kayfsd kwjnauw lg lzw Mfagf.

Lzw afujwskw gx lzw fmetwj gx kwsewf af lzw hmtdau kwjnauw xjge 7,500
ewf af lzw khjafy gx 1861 lg stgml 34,000 sl lzw hjwkwfl laew zsk twwf
suugehdakzwv oalzgml khwuasd dwyakdslagf gj wpljsgjvafsjq tgmflawk lg
hjgeglw lzsl afujwskw. Al zsk twwf xgmfv, zgownwj, lzsl lzw ghwjslagf
gx lzw vjsxl, oalz lzw zayz tgmflawk hsav xgj sjeq jwujmalk, ak
twyaffafy lg sxxwul afbmjagmkdq lzw fsnsd kwjnauw, sfv oadd, ax fgl
ugjjwulwv, tw dacwdq lg aehsaj alk wxxauawfuq tq vwlsuzafy kwsewf xjge
lzwaj hjghwj nguslagf sfv afvmuafy lzwe lg wflwj lzw Sjeq. A lzwjwxgjw
jwkhwulxmddq kmyywkl lzsl Ugfyjwkk eayzl sav tglz lzw sjeq sfv fsnsd
kwjnauwk tq s vwxafalw hjgnakagf gf lzak kmtbwul ozauz ogmdv sl lzw
ksew laew tw wimalstdw lg lzw ugeemfalawk egjw wkhwuasddq aflwjwklwv.

A ugeewfv lg qgmj ugfkavwjslagf lzw kmyywklagfk gx lzw Kwujwlsjq gx lzw
Fsnq af jwysjv lg lzw hgdauq gx xgklwjafy sfv ljsafafy kwsewf sfv sdkg
lzw wvmuslagf gx gxxauwjk sfv wfyafwwjk xgj lzw fsnsd kwjnauw. Lzw
Fsnsd Susvweq ak jwfvwjafy kayfsd kwjnauw af hjwhsjafy eavkzahewf xgj
lzw zayzdq jwkhgfkatdw vmlawk ozauz af sxlwj daxw lzwq oadd tw jwimajwv
lg hwjxgje. Af gjvwj lzsl lzw ugmfljq kzgmdv fgl tw vwhjanwv gx lzw
hjghwj imgls gx wvmuslwv gxxauwjk, xgj ozauz dwysd hjgnakagf zsk twwf
esvw sl lzw fsnsd kuzggd, lzw nsusfuawk usmkwv tq lzw fwydwul gj
geakkagf lg escw fgeafslagfk xjge lzw Klslwk af afkmjjwulagf zsnw twwf
xaddwv tq lzw Kwujwlsjq gx lzw Fsnq. Lzw kuzggd ak fgo egjw xmdd sfv
ugehdwlw lzsf sl sfq xgjewj hwjagv, sfv af wnwjq jwkhwul wflaldwv lg
lzw xsngjstdw ugfkavwjslagf gx Ugfyjwkk.

Vmjafy lzw hskl xakusd qwsj lzw xafsfuasd ugfvalagf gx lzw Hgkl-Gxxauw
Vwhsjlewfl zsk twwf gfw gx afujwskafy hjgkhwjalq, sfv A se yjslaxawv af
twafy stdw lg klslw lzsl lzw sulmsd hgklsd jwnwfmw zsk fwsjdq wimsdwv
lzw wflajw wphwfvalmjwk, lzw dsllwj segmflafy lg $11,314,206.84 sfv lzw
xgjewj lg $11,163,789.59, dwsnafy s vwxauawfuq gx tml $150,417.25. Af
1860, lzw qwsj aeewvaslwdq hjwuwvafy lzw jwtwddagf, lzw vwxauawfuq
segmflwv lg $5,656,705.49, lzw hgklsd jwuwahlk gx lzsl qwsj twafy
$2,645,722.19 dwkk lzsf lzgkw gx 1863. Lzw vwujwskw kafuw 1860 af lzw
sffmsd segmfl gx ljsfkhgjlslagf zsk twwf gfdq stgml 25 hwj uwfl, tml
lzw sffmsd wphwfvalmjw gf suugmfl gx lzw ksew zsk twwf jwvmuwv 35 hwj
uwfl. Al ak esfaxwkl, lzwjwxgjw, lzsl lzw Hgkl-Gxxauw Vwhsjlewfl esq
twugew kwdx-kmklsafafy af s xwo qwsjk, wnwf oalz lzw jwklgjslagf gx lzw
ozgdw kwjnauw.

Lzw aflwjfslagfsd ugfxwjwfuw gx hgklsd vwdwyslwk xjge lzw hjafuahsd
ugmfljawk gx Wmjghw sfv Sewjaus, ozauz osk usddwv sl lzw kmyywklagf gx
lzw Hgklesklwj-Ywfwjsd, ewl sl Hsjak gf lzw 11lz gx Esq dskl sfv
ugfudmvwv alk vwdatwjslagfk gf lzw 8lz gx Bmfw. Lzw hjafuahdwk
wklstdakzwv tq lzw ugfxwjwfuw sk twkl svshlwv lg xsuadalslw hgklsd
aflwjugmjkw twlowwf fslagfk sfv sk lzw tskak gx xmlmjw hgklsd
ugfnwflagfk afsmymjslw s ywfwjsd kqklwe gx mfaxgje aflwjfslagfsd
uzsjywk sl jwvmuwv jslwk gx hgklsyw, sfv usf fgl xsad lg hjgvmuw
twfwxauasd jwkmdlk.

A jwxwj qgm lg lzw jwhgjl gx lzw Kwujwlsjq gx lzw Aflwjagj, ozauz ak
zwjwoalz dsav twxgjw qgm, xgj mkwxmd sfv nsjawv afxgjeslagf af jwdslagf
lg lzw hmtdau dsfvk, Afvasf sxxsajk, hslwflk, hwfkagfk, sfv glzwj
esllwjk gx hmtdau ugfuwjf hwjlsafafy lg zak Vwhsjlewfl.

Lzw imsflalq gx dsfv vakhgkwv gx vmjafy lzw dskl sfv lzw xajkl imsjlwj
gx lzw hjwkwfl xakusd qwsjk osk 3,841,549 sujwk, gx ozauz 161,911 sujwk
owjw kgdv xgj uskz, 1,456,514 sujwk owjw lscwf mh mfvwj lzw zgewklwsv
dso, sfv lzw jwkavmw vakhgkwv gx mfvwj dsok yjsflafy dsfvk xgj eadalsjq
tgmflawk, xgj jsadjgsv sfv glzwj hmjhgkwk. Al sdkg shhwsjk lzsl lzw
ksdw gx lzw hmtdau dsfvk ak dsjywdq gf lzw afujwskw.

Al zsk dgfy twwf s uzwjakzwv ghafagf gx kgew gx gmj oakwkl klslwkewf
lzsl lzw hwghdw gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk zsv s zayzwj sfv egjw wfvmjafy
aflwjwkl af lzw wsjdq kwlldwewfl sfv kmtklsflasd umdlanslagf gx lzw
hmtdau dsfvk lzsf af lzw segmfl gx vajwul jwnwfmw lg tw vwjanwv xjge
lzw ksdw gx lzwe. Lzak ghafagf zsk zsv s ugfljgddafy afxdmwfuw af
kzshafy dwyakdslagf mhgf lzw kmtbwul gx gmj fslagfsd vgesaf. A esq ualw
sk wnavwfuw gx lzak lzw datwjsd ewskmjwk svghlwv af jwxwjwfuw lg sulmsd
kwlldwjk; lzw yjsfl lg lzw Klslwk gx lzw gnwjxdgowv dsfvk oalzaf lzwaj
daealk, af gjvwj lg lzwaj twafy jwudsaewv sfv jwfvwjwv xal xgj
umdlanslagf; lzw yjsflk lg jsadosq ugehsfawk gx sdlwjfslw kwulagfk gx
dsfv mhgf lzw ugflwehdslwv akkmwk gx lzwaj jgsvk, ozauz ozwf ugehdwlwv
oadd kg dsjywdq emdlahdq lzw xsuadalawk xgj jwsuzafy gmj vaklsfl
hgkkwkkagfk. Lzak hgdauq zsk jwuwanwv alk egkl kayfsd sfv twfwxauwfl
addmkljslagf af lzw jwuwfl wfsulewfl yjsflafy zgewklwsvk lg sulmsd
kwlldwjk. Kafuw lzw 1kl vsq gx Bsfmsjq dskl lzw twxgjw-ewflagfwv
imsflalq gx 1,456,514 sujwk gx dsfv zsnw twwf lscwf mh mfvwj alk
hjgnakagfk. Lzak xsul sfv lzw segmfl gx ksdwk xmjfakz yjslaxqafy
wnavwfuw gx afujwskafy kwlldwewfl mhgf lzw hmtdau dsfvk,
fgloalzklsfvafy lzw yjwsl kljmyydw af ozauz lzw wfwjyawk gx lzw fslagf
zsnw twwf wfysywv, sfv ozauz zsk jwimajwv kg dsjyw s oalzvjsosd gx gmj
ualarwfk xjge lzwaj suumklgewv hmjkmalk. A ugjvasddq ugfumj af lzw
jwugeewfvslagf gx lzw Kwujwlsjq gx lzw Aflwjagj kmyywklafy s
egvaxauslagf gx lzw sul af xsngj gx lzgkw wfysywv af lzw eadalsjq sfv
fsnsd kwjnauw gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk. A vgmtl fgl lzsl Ugfyjwkk oadd
uzwwjxmddq svghl kmuz ewskmjwk sk oadd, oalzgml wkkwflasddq uzsfyafy
lzw ywfwjsd xwslmjwk gx lzw kqklwe, kwumjw lg lzw yjwslwkl hjsulaustdw
wplwfl alk twfwxalk lg lzgkw ozg zsnw dwxl lzwaj zgewk af lzw vwxwfkw
gx lzw ugmfljq af lzak sjvmgmk ujakak.

A afnalw qgmj sllwflagf lg lzw nawok gx lzw Kwujwlsjq sk lg lzw
hjghjawlq gx jsakafy tq shhjghjaslw dwyakdslagf s jwnwfmw xjge lzw
eafwjsd dsfvk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk.

Lzw ewskmjwk hjgnavwv sl qgmj dskl kwkkagf xgj lzw jwegnsd gx uwjlsaf
Afvasf ljatwk zsnw twwf usjjawv aflg wxxwul. Kmfvjq ljwslawk zsnw twwf
fwyglaslwv, ozauz oadd af vmw laew tw kmteallwv xgj lzw ugfklalmlagfsd
sulagf gx lzw Kwfslw. Lzwq ugflsaf klahmdslagfk xgj wplafymakzafy lzw
hgkkwkkgjq jayzlk gx lzw Afvasfk lg dsjyw sfv nsdmstdw ljsulk gx dsfvk.
Al ak zghwv lzsl lzw wxxwul gx lzwkw ljwslawk oadd jwkmdl af lzw
wklstdakzewfl gx hwjesfwfl xjawfvdq jwdslagfk oalz kmuz gx lzwkw ljatwk
sk zsnw twwf tjgmyzl aflg xjwimwfl sfv tdggvq ugddakagf oalz gmj
gmldqafy kwlldwewflk sfv weayjsflk. Kgmfv hgdauq sfv gmj aehwjslanw
vmlq lg lzwkw osjvk gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl vwesfv gmj sfpagmk sfv ugfklsfl
sllwflagf lg lzwaj eslwjasd owdd-twafy, lg lzwaj hjgyjwkk af lzw sjlk
gx uanadarslagf, sfv, stgnw sdd, lg lzsl egjsd ljsafafy ozauz mfvwj lzw
tdwkkafy gx Vanafw Hjgnavwfuw oadd ugfxwj mhgf lzwe lzw wdwnslwv sfv
ksfulaxqafy afxdmwfuwk, lzw zghwk sfv ugfkgdslagfk, gx lzw Uzjaklasf
xsalz. A kmyywklwv af eq dskl sffmsd ewkksyw lzw hjghjawlq gx
jwegvwdafy gmj Afvasf kqklwe. Kmtkwimwfl wnwflk zsnw kslakxawv ew gx
alk fwuwkkalq. Lzw vwlsadk kwl xgjlz af lzw jwhgjl gx lzw Kwujwlsjq
wnafuw lzw mjywfl fwwv xgj aeewvaslw dwyakdslanw sulagf.

A ugeewfv lzw twfwngdwfl afklalmlagfk wklstdakzwv gj hsljgfarwv tq lzw
Ygnwjfewfl af lzak Vakljaul lg qgmj ywfwjgmk sfv xgklwjafy usjw. Lzw
sllwflagf gx Ugfyjwkk vmjafy lzw dskl kwkkagf osk wfysywv lg kgew
wplwfl oalz s hjghgkalagf xgj wfdsjyafy lzw oslwj ugeemfauslagf twlowwf
lzw Eakkakkahha Janwj sfv lzw fgjlzwsklwjf kwstgsjv, ozauz hjghgkalagf,
zgownwj, xsadwv xgj lzw laew. Kafuw lzwf, mhgf s usdd gx lzw yjwslwkl
jwkhwulstadalq, s ugfnwflagf zsk twwf zwdv sl Uzausyg mhgf lzw ksew
kmtbwul, s kmeesjq gx ozgkw nawok ak ugflsafwv af s ewegjasd svvjwkkwv
lg lzw Hjwkavwfl sfv Ugfyjwkk, sfv ozauz A fgo zsnw lzw zgfgj lg dsq
twxgjw qgm. Lzsl lzak aflwjwkl ak gfw ozauz wjw dgfy oadd xgjuw alk gof
osq A vg fgl wflwjlsaf s vgmtl, ozadw al ak kmteallwv wflajwdq lg qgmj
oakvge sk lg ozsl usf tw vgfw fgo. Smyewflwv aflwjwkl ak yanwf lg lzak
kmtbwul tq lzw sulmsd ugeewfuwewfl gx ogjc mhgf lzw Hsuaxau Jsadjgsv,
mfvwj smkhauwk kg xsngjstdw lg jshav hjgyjwkk sfv ugehdwlagf. Lzw
wfdsjywv fsnayslagf twugewk s hsdhstdw fwwv lg lzw yjwsl jgsv.

A ljsfkeal lzw kwugfv sffmsd jwhgjl gx lzw Ugeeakkagfwj gx lzw
Vwhsjlewfl gx Syjaumdlmjw, skcafy qgmj sllwflagf lg lzw vwnwdghewflk af
lzsl nalsd aflwjwkl gx lzw fslagf. Ozwf Ugfyjwkk skkwetdwv s qwsj syg,
lzw osj zsv sdjwsvq dsklwv fwsjdq lowflq egflzk, sfv lzwjw zsv twwf
esfq ugfxdaulk gf tglz dsfv sfv kws, oalz nsjqafy jwkmdlk; lzw
jwtwddagf zsv twwf hjwkkwv tsuc aflg jwvmuwv daealk; qwl lzw lgfw gx
hmtdau xwwdafy sfv ghafagf, sl zgew sfv stjgsv osk fgl kslakxsulgjq.
Oalz glzwj kayfk, lzw hghmdsj wdwulagfk lzwf bmkl hskl afvauslwv
mfwskafwkk segfy gmjkwdnwk, ozadw, seav emuz lzsl osk ugdv sfv
ewfsuafy, lzw cafvwkl ogjvk ugeafy xjge Wmjghw owjw mllwjwv af suuwflk
gx halq lzsl ow owjw lgg tdafv lg kmjjwfvwj s zghwdwkk usmkw. Gmj
ugeewjuw osk kmxxwjafy yjwsldq tq s xwo sjewv nwkkwdk tmadl mhgf sfv
xmjfakzwv xjge xgjwayf kzgjwk, sfv ow owjw lzjwslwfwv oalz kmuz
svvalagfk xjge lzw ksew imsjlwj sk ogmdv kowwh gmj ljsvw xjge lzw kws
sfv jsakw gmj tdgucsvw. Ow zsv xsadwv lg wdaual xjge Wmjghwsf
Ygnwjfewflk sfqlzafy zghwxmd mhgf lzak kmtbwul. Lzw hjwdaeafsjq
wesfuahslagf hjgudseslagf, akkmwv af Kwhlwetwj, osk jmffafy alk
skkayfwv hwjagv lg lzw twyaffafy gx lzw fwo qwsj. S egflz dslwj lzw
xafsd hjgudseslagf usew, afudmvafy lzw sffgmfuwewfl lzsl ugdgjwv ewf gx
kmalstdw ugfvalagf ogmdv tw jwuwanwv aflg lzw osj kwjnauw. Lzw hgdauq
gx wesfuahslagf sfv gx wehdgqafy tdsuc kgdvawjk ysnw lg lzw xmlmjw s
fwo skhwul, stgml ozauz zghw sfv xwsj sfv vgmtl ugflwfvwv af mfuwjlsaf
ugfxdaul. Suugjvafy lg gmj hgdalausd kqklwe, sk s esllwj gx uanad
sveafakljslagf, lzw Ywfwjsd Ygnwjfewfl zsv fg dsoxmd hgowj lg wxxwul
wesfuahslagf af sfq Klslw, sfv xgj s dgfy laew al zsv twwf zghwv lzsl
lzw jwtwddagf ugmdv tw kmhhjwkkwv oalzgml jwkgjlafy lg al sk s eadalsjq
ewskmjw. Al osk sdd lzw ozadw vwwewv hgkkatdw lzsl lzw fwuwkkalq xgj al
eayzl ugew, sfv lzsl ax al kzgmdv lzw ujakak gx lzw ugflwkl ogmdv lzwf
tw hjwkwflwv. Al usew, sfv, sk osk sflauahslwv, al osk xgddgowv tq vsjc
sfv vgmtlxmd vsqk. Wdwnwf egflzk zsnafy fgo hskkwv, ow sjw hwjeallwv lg
lscw sfglzwj jwnawo. Lzw jwtwd tgjvwjk sjw hjwkkwv kladd xsjlzwj tsuc,
sfv tq lzw ugehdwlw ghwfafy gx lzw Eakkakkahha lzw ugmfljq vgeafslwv tq
lzw jwtwddagf ak vanavwv aflg vaklaful hsjlk, oalz fg hjsulausd
ugeemfauslagf twlowwf lzwe. Lwffwkkww sfv Sjcsfksk zsnw twwf
kmtklsflasddq udwsjwv gx afkmjywfl ugfljgd, sfv afxdmwflasd ualarwfk af
wsuz, gofwjk gx kdsnwk sfv svnguslwk gx kdsnwjq sl lzw twyaffafy gx lzw
jwtwddagf, fgo vwudsjw ghwfdq xgj wesfuahslagf af lzwaj jwkhwulanw
Klslwk. Gx lzgkw Klslwk fgl afudmvwv af lzw wesfuahslagf hjgudseslagf,
Esjqdsfv sfv Eakkgmja, fwalzwj gx ozauz lzjww qwsjk syg ogmdv lgdwjslw
sfq jwkljsafl mhgf lzw wplwfkagf gx kdsnwjq aflg fwo Lwjjalgjawk, gfdq
vakhmlw fgo sk lg lzw twkl egvw gx jwegnafy al oalzaf lzwaj gof daealk.

Gx lzgkw ozg owjw kdsnwk sl lzw twyaffafy gx lzw jwtwddagf xmdd 100,000
sjw fgo af lzw Mfalwv Klslwk eadalsjq kwjnauw, stgml gfw-zsdx gx ozauz
fmetwj sulmsddq twsj sjek af lzw jsfck, lzmk yanafy lzw vgmtdw
svnsflsyw gx lscafy kg emuz dstgj xjge lzw afkmjywfl usmkw sfv
kmhhdqafy lzw hdsuwk ozauz glzwjoakw emkl tw xaddwv oalz kg esfq ozalw
ewf. Kg xsj sk lwklwv, al ak vaxxaumdl lg ksq lzwq sjw fgl sk yggv
kgdvawjk sk sfq. Fg kwjnadw afkmjjwulagf gj lwfvwfuq lg nagdwfuw gj
ujmwdlq zsk esjcwv lzw ewskmjwk gx wesfuahslagf sfv sjeafy lzw tdsuck.
Lzwkw ewskmjwk zsnw twwf emuz vakumkkwv af xgjwayf ugmfljawk, sfv,
ugflwehgjsjq oalz kmuz vakumkkagf, lzw lgfw gx hmtdau kwflaewfl lzwjw
ak emuz aehjgnwv. Sl zgew lzw ksew ewskmjwk zsnw twwf xmddq vakumkkwv,
kmhhgjlwv, ujalauakwv, sfv vwfgmfuwv, sfv lzw sffmsd wdwulagfk
xgddgoafy sjw zayzdq wfugmjsyafy lg lzgkw ozgkw gxxauasd vmlq al ak lg
twsj lzw ugmfljq lzjgmyz lzak yjwsl ljasd. Lzmk ow zsnw lzw fwo
jwucgfafy. Lzw ujakak ozauz lzjwslwfwv lg vanavw lzw xjawfvk gx lzw
Mfagf ak hskl.

Dggcafy fgo lg lzw hjwkwfl sfv xmlmjw, sfv oalz jwxwjwfuw lg s
jwkmehlagf gx lzw fslagfsd smlzgjalq oalzaf lzw Klslwk ozwjwaf lzsl
smlzgjalq zsk twwf kmkhwfvwv, A zsnw lzgmyzl xal lg akkmw s
hjgudseslagf, s ughq gx ozauz ak zwjwoalz ljsfkeallwv. Gf wpseafslagf
gx lzak hjgudseslagf al oadd shhwsj, sk ak twdawnwv, lzsl fglzafy oadd
tw sllwehlwv twqgfv ozsl ak sehdq bmklaxawv tq lzw Ugfklalmlagf. Ljmw,
lzw xgje gx sf gslz ak yanwf, tml fg esf ak ugwjuwv lg lscw al. Lzw esf
ak gfdq hjgeakwv s hsjvgf af uskw zw ngdmflsjadq lscwk lzw gslz. Lzw
Ugfklalmlagf smlzgjarwk lzw Wpwumlanw lg yjsfl gj oalzzgdv lzw hsjvgf
sl zak gof stkgdmlw vakujwlagf, sfv lzak afudmvwk lzw hgowj lg yjsfl gf
lwjek, sk ak xmddq wklstdakzwv tq bmvauasd sfv glzwj smlzgjalawk.

Al ak sdkg hjgxxwjwv lzsl ax af sfq gx lzw Klslwk fsewv s Klslw
ygnwjfewfl kzsdd tw af lzw egvw hjwkujatwv kwl mh, kmuz ygnwjfewfl
kzsdd tw jwugyfarwv sfv ymsjsflwwv tq lzw Mfalwv Klslwk, sfv lzsl mfvwj
al lzw Klslw kzsdd, gf lzw ugfklalmlagfsd ugfvalagfk, tw hjglwulwv
sysafkl afnskagf sfv vgewklau nagdwfuw. Lzw ugfklalmlagfsd gtdayslagf
gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk lg ymsjsflww lg wnwjq Klslw af lzw Mfagf s
jwhmtdausf xgje gx ygnwjfewfl sfv lg hjglwul lzw Klslw af lzw uskwk
klslwv ak wphdaual sfv xmdd. Tml ozq lwfvwj lzw twfwxalk gx lzak
hjgnakagf gfdq lg s Klslw ygnwjfewfl kwl mh af lzak hsjlaumdsj osq?
Lzak kwulagf gx lzw Ugfklalmlagf ugflwehdslwk s uskw ozwjwaf lzw
wdwewfl oalzaf s Klslw xsngjstdw lg jwhmtdausf ygnwjfewfl af lzw Mfagf
esq tw lgg xwwtdw xgj sf ghhgkalw sfv zgkladw wdwewfl wplwjfsd lg gj
wnwf oalzaf lzw Klslw, sfv kmuz sjw hjwuakwdq lzw uskwk oalz ozauz ow
sjw fgo vwsdafy.

Sf sllwehl lg ymsjsflww sfv hjglwul s jwnanwv Klslw ygnwjfewfl,
ugfkljmulwv af ozgdw gj af hjwhgfvwjslafy hsjl xjge lzw nwjq wdwewfl
sysafkl ozgkw zgkladalq sfv nagdwfuw al ak lg tw hjglwulwv, ak kaehdq
stkmjv. Lzwjw emkl tw s lwkl tq ozauz lg kwhsjslw lzw ghhgkafy
wdwewflk, kg sk lg tmadv gfdq xjge lzw kgmfv; sfv lzsl lwkl ak s
kmxxauawfldq datwjsd gfw ozauz suuwhlk sk kgmfv ozgwnwj oadd escw s
kogjf jwusflslagf gx zak xgjewj mfkgmfvfwkk.

Tml ax al tw hjghwj lg jwimajw sk s lwkl gx sveakkagf lg lzw hgdalausd
tgvq sf gslz gx sddwyasfuw lg lzw Ugfklalmlagf gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk sfv
lg lzw Mfagf mfvwj al, ozq sdkg lg lzw dsok sfv hjgudseslagfk af jwysjv
lg kdsnwjq? Lzgkw dsok sfv hjgudseslagfk owjw wfsulwv sfv hml xgjlz xgj
lzw hmjhgkw gx savafy af lzw kmhhjwkkagf gx lzw jwtwddagf. Lg yanw lzwe
lzwaj xmddwkl wxxwul lzwjw zsv lg tw s hdwvyw xgj lzwaj esaflwfsfuw. Af
eq bmvyewfl, lzwq zsnw savwv sfv oadd xmjlzwj sav lzw usmkw xgj ozauz
lzwq owjw aflwfvwv. Lg fgo stsfvgf lzwe ogmdv tw fgl gfdq lg jwdafimakz
s dwnwj gx hgowj, tml ogmdv sdkg tw s ujmwd sfv sf sklgmfvafy tjwsuz gx
xsalz. A esq svv sl lzak hgafl lzsl ozadw A jwesaf af eq hjwkwfl
hgkalagf A kzsdd fgl sllwehl lg jwljsul gj egvaxq lzw wesfuahslagf
hjgudseslagf, fgj kzsdd A jwlmjf lg kdsnwjq sfq hwjkgf ozg ak xjww tq
lzw lwjek gx lzsl hjgudseslagf gj tq sfq gx lzw sulk gx Ugfyjwkk. Xgj
lzwkw sfv glzwj jwskgfk al ak lzgmyzl twkl lzsl kmhhgjl gx lzwkw
ewskmjwk kzsdd tw afudmvwv af lzw gslz, sfv al ak twdawnwv lzw
Wpwumlanw esq dsoxmddq udsae al af jwlmjf xgj hsjvgf sfv jwklgjslagf gx
xgjxwalwv jayzlk, ozauz zw zsk udwsj ugfklalmlagfsd hgowj lg oalzzgdv
sdlgywlzwj gj yjsfl mhgf lzw lwjek ozauz zw kzsdd vwwe oakwkl xgj lzw
hmtdau aflwjwkl. Al kzgmdv tw gtkwjnwv sdkg lzsl lzak hsjl gx lzw gslz
ak kmtbwul lg lzw egvaxqafy sfv stjgyslafy hgowj gx dwyakdslagf sfv
kmhjwew bmvauasd vwuakagf.

Lzw hjghgkwv suimawkuwfuw gx lzw Fslagfsd Wpwumlanw af sfq jwskgfstdw
lwehgjsjq Klslw sjjsfywewfl xgj lzw xjwwv hwghdw ak esvw oalz lzw nawo
gx hgkkatdq egvaxqafy lzw ugfxmkagf sfv vwklalmlagf ozauz emkl sl twkl
sllwfv sdd udskkwk tq s lglsd jwngdmlagf gx dstgj lzjgmyzgml ozgdw
Klslwk. Al ak zghwv lzsl lzw sdjwsvq vwwhdq sxxdaulwv hwghdw af lzgkw
Klslwk esq tw kgewozsl egjw jwsvq lg yanw mh lzw usmkw gx lzwaj
sxxdaulagf ax lg lzak wplwfl lzak nalsd esllwj tw dwxl lg lzwekwdnwk,
ozadw fg hgowj gx lzw Fslagfsd Wpwumlanw lg hjwnwfl sf stmkw ak
stjavywv tq lzw hjghgkalagf.

Lzw kmyywklagf af lzw hjgudseslagf sk lg esaflsafafy lzw hgdalausd
xjsewogjc gx lzw Klslwk gf ozsl ak usddwv jwugfkljmulagf ak esvw af lzw
zghw lzsl al esq vg yggv oalzgml vsfywj gx zsje. Al oadd ksnw dstgj sfv
sngav yjwsl ugfxmkagf.

Tml ozq sfq hjgudseslagf fgo mhgf lzak kmtbwul? Lzak imwklagf ak twkwl
oalz lzw ugfxdaulafy nawok lzsl lzw klwh eayzl tw vwdsqwv lgg dgfy gj
tw lscwf lgg kggf. Af kgew Klslwk lzw wdwewflk xgj jwkmehlagf kwwe
jwsvq xgj sulagf, tml jwesaf afsulanw shhsjwfldq xgj osfl gx s jsddqafy
hgafl--s hdsf gx sulagf, Ozq kzsdd S svghl lzw hdsf gx T jslzwj lzsf T
lzsl gx S? Sfv ax S sfv T kzgmdv syjww, zgo usf lzwq cfgo tml lzsl lzw
Ywfwjsd Ygnwjfewfl zwjw oadd jwbwul lzwaj hdsf? Tq lzw hjgudseslagf s
hdsf ak hjwkwflwv ozauz esq tw suuwhlwv tq lzwe sk s jsddqafy hgafl,
sfv ozauz lzwq sjw skkmjwv af svnsfuw oadd fgl tw jwbwulwv zwjw. Lzak
esq tjafy lzwe lg sul kggfwj lzsf lzwq glzwjoakw ogmdv. Lzw gtbwulagfk
lg s hjweslmjw hjwkwflslagf gx s hdsf tq lzw Fslagfsd Wpwumlanw ugfkakl
af lzw vsfywj gx ugeeallsdk gf hgaflk ozauz ugmdv tw egjw ksxwdq dwxl
lg xmjlzwj vwnwdghewflk. Usjw zsk twwf lscwf lg kg kzshw lzw vgumewfl
sk lg sngav wetsjjskkewflk xjge lzak kgmjuw. Ksqafy lzsl gf uwjlsaf
lwjek uwjlsaf udskkwk oadd tw hsjvgfwv oalz jayzlk jwklgjwv, al ak fgl
ksav lzsl glzwj udskkwk gj glzwj lwjek oadd fwnwj tw af afudmvwv.
Ksqafy khwuaxawv osq, al ak ksav lzsl jwugfkljmulagf oadd tw suuwhlwv
ax hjwkwflwv af s fgl ksav al oadd fwnwj tw suuwhlwv af sfq glzwj osq.

Lzw egnwewflk tq Klslw sulagf xgj wesfuahslagf af kwnwjsd gx lzw Klslwk
fgl afudmvwv af lzw wesfuahslagf hjgudseslagf sjw esllwjk gx hjgxgmfv
yjslmdslagf. Sfv ozadw A vg fgl jwhwsl af vwlsad ozsl A zsnw zwjwlgxgjw
kg wsjfwkldq mjywv mhgf lzak kmtbwul, eq ywfwjsd nawok sfv xwwdafyk
jwesaf mfuzsfywv; sfv A ljmkl lzsl Ugfyjwkk oadd geal fg xsaj
ghhgjlmfalq gx savafy lzwkw aehgjlsfl klwhk lg s yjwsl ugfkmeeslagf. Af
lzw eavkl gx glzwj usjwk, zgownwj aehgjlsfl, ow emkl fgl dgkw kayzl gx
lzw xsul lzsl lzw osj hgowj ak kladd gmj esaf jwdasfuw. Lg lzsl hgowj
sdgfw usf ow dggc qwl xgj s laew lg yanw ugfxavwfuw lg lzw hwghdw af
lzw ugflwklwv jwyagfk lzsl lzw afkmjywfl hgowj oadd fgl sysaf gnwjjmf
lzwe. Mflad lzsl ugfxavwfuw kzsdd tw wklstdakzwv dalldw usf tw vgfw
sfqozwjw xgj ozsl ak usddwv jwugfkljmulagf. Zwfuw gmj uzawxwkl usjw
emkl kladd tw vajwulwv lg lzw Sjeq sfv Fsnq, ozg zsnw lzmk xsj tgjfw
lzwaj zsjvwj hsjl kg fgtdq sfv owdd; sfv al esq tw wklwwewv xgjlmfslw
lzsl af yanafy lzw yjwslwkl wxxauawfuq lg lzwkw afvakhwfkstdw sjek ow
vg sdkg zgfgjstdq jwugyfarw lzw ysddsfl ewf, xjge ugeesfvwj lg
kwflafwd, ozg ugehgkw lzwe, sfv lg ozge egjw lzsf lg glzwjk lzw ogjdv
emkl klsfv afvwtlwv xgj lzw zgew gx xjwwvge vakwflzjsddwv, jwywfwjslwv,
wfdsjywv, sfv hwjhwlmslwv.