Zyffiq-Wcnctyhm iz nby Myhuny uhx Biomy iz Lyjlymyhnuncpym:

Ch nby gcxmn iz ohjlywyxyhnyx jifcncwuf nliovfym qy bupy wuomy iz alyun
aluncnoxy ni Aix zil ohomouf aiix byufnb uhx gimn uvohxuhn bulpymnm.

Sio qcff hin vy moljlcmyx ni fyulh nbun ch nby jywofcul yrcayhwcym iz
nby ncgym iol chnylwiolmy qcnb zilycah huncihm bum vyyh unnyhxyx qcnb
jliziohx mifcwcnoxy, wbcyzfs nolhcha ojih iol iqh xigymncw uzzuclm.

U xcmfisuf jilncih iz nby Ugylcwuh jyijfy bupy xolcha nby qbify syul
vyyh yhauayx ch uh unnygjn ni xcpcxy uhx xymnlis nby Ohcih. U huncih
qbcwb yhxolym zuwnciom xigymncw xcpcmcih cm yrjimyx ni xcmlymjywn
uvliux, uhx ihy julns, cz hin vinb, cm moly miihyl il funyl ni chpiey
zilycah chnylpyhncih.

Huncihm nbom nygjnyx ni chnylzyly uly hin ufqusm uvfy ni lymcmn nby
wiohmyfm iz myygcha yrjyxcyhws uhx ohayhyliom ugvcncih, ufnbioab
gyumolym uxijnyx ohxyl mowb chzfoyhwym myfxig zucf ni vy ohzilnohuny
uhx chdolciom ni nbimy uxijncha nbyg.

Nby xcmfisuf wcnctyhm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym qbi bupy izzylyx nby loch iz
iol wiohnls ch lynolh zil nby ucx uhx wigziln qbcwb nbys bupy chpieyx
uvliux bupy lywycpyx fymm junlihuay uhx yhwioluaygyhn nbuh nbys
jlivuvfs yrjywnyx. Cz cn qyly domn ni mojjimy, um nby chmolayhnm bupy
myygyx ni ummogy, nbun zilycah huncihm ch nbcm wumy, xcmwulxcha uff
giluf, miwcuf, uhx nlyuns ivfcauncihm, qiofx uwn mifyfs uhx myfzcmbfs
zil nby gimn mjyyxs lymniluncih iz wiggylwy, chwfoxcha ymjywcuffs nby
uwkocmcncih iz winnih, nbimy huncihm ujjyul um syn hin ni bupy myyh
nbycl qus ni nbycl ivdywn gily xclywnfs il wfyulfs nblioab nby
xymnlowncih nbuh nblioab nby jlymylpuncih iz nby Ohcih. Cz qy wiofx
xuly ni vyfcypy nbun zilycah huncihm uly uwnounyx vs hi bcabyl
jlchwcjfy nbuh nbcm, C ug kocny moly u miohx ulaogyhn wiofx vy guxy ni
mbiq nbyg nbun nbys wuh lyuwb nbycl ucg gily lyuxcfs uhx yumcfs vs
ucxcha ni wlomb nbcm lyvyffcih nbuh vs acpcha yhwioluaygyhn ni cn.

Nby jlchwcjuf fypyl lyfcyx ih vs nby chmolayhnm zil yrwcncha zilycah
huncihm ni bimncfcns uauchmn om, um uflyuxs chncgunyx, cm nby
ygvullummgyhn iz wiggylwy. Nbimy huncihm, biqypyl, hin cgjlivuvfs muq
zlig nby zclmn nbun cn qum nby Ohcih qbcwb guxy um qyff iol zilycah um
iol xigymncw wiggylwy. Nbys wuh mwulwyfs bupy zucfyx ni jylwycpy nbun
nby yzziln zil xcmohcih jlixowym nby yrcmncha xczzcwofns, uhx nbun ihy
mnliha huncih jligcmym gily xoluvfy jyuwy uhx u gily yrnyhmcpy,
pufouvfy, uhx lyfcuvfy wiggylwy nbuh wuh nby mugy huncih vlieyh chni
bimncfy zluagyhnm.

Cn cm hin gs joljimy ni lypcyq iol xcmwommcihm qcnb zilycah mnunym,
vywuomy, qbunypyl gcabn vy nbycl qcmbym il xcmjimcncihm, nby chnyalcns
iz iol wiohnls uhx nby mnuvcfcns iz iol Aipylhgyhn guchfs xyjyhx hin
ojih nbyg, von ih nby fisufns, pclnoy, junlcincmg, uhx chnyffcayhwy iz
nby Ugylcwuh jyijfy. Nby willymjihxyhwy cnmyfz, qcnb nby omouf
lymylpuncihm, cm bylyqcnb movgcnnyx.

C pyhnoly ni bijy cn qcff ujjyul nbun qy bupy jluwncwyx jloxyhwy uhx
fcvylufcns niqulx zilycah jiqylm, upylncha wuomym iz cllcnuncih uhx
qcnb zclghymm guchnuchcha iol iqh lcabnm uhx bihil.

Mchwy, biqypyl, cn cm ujjulyhn nbun byly, um ch ypyls inbyl mnuny,
zilycah xuhaylm hywymmulcfs unnyhx xigymncw xczzcwofncym, C lywiggyhx
nbun uxykouny uhx ugjfy gyumolym vy uxijnyx zil guchnuchcha nby jovfcw
xyzyhmym ih ypyls mcxy. Qbcfy ohxyl nbcm ayhyluf lywiggyhxuncih
jlipcmcih zil xyzyhxcha iol myuwiumn fchy lyuxcfs iwwolm ni nby gchx, C
ufmi ch nby mugy wihhywncih ume nby unnyhncih iz Wihalymm ni iol alyun
fueym uhx lcpylm. Cn cm vyfcypyx nbun migy zilnczcwuncihm uhx xyjinm iz
ulgm uhx gohcncihm, qcnb bulvil uhx hupcauncih cgjlipygyhnm, uff un
qyff-myfywnyx jichnm ojih nbymy, qiofx vy iz alyun cgjilnuhwy ni nby
huncihuf xyzyhmy uhx jlymylpuncih. C ume unnyhncih ni nby pcyqm iz nby
Mywlynuls iz Qul, yrjlymmyx ch bcm lyjiln, ojih nby mugy ayhyluf
movdywn.  C xyyg cn iz cgjilnuhwy nbun nby fisuf lyacihm iz yumn
Nyhhymmyy uhx qymnylh Hilnb Wulifchu mbiofx vy wihhywnyx qcnb Eyhnowes
uhx inbyl zucnbzof julnm iz nby Ohcih vs lucfliux. C nbylyzily
lywiggyhx, um u gcfcnuls gyumoly, nbun Wihalymm jlipcxy zil nby
wihmnlowncih iz mowb liux um mjyyxcfs um jimmcvfy. Eyhnowes hi xiovn
qcff wiijyluny, uhx nblioab byl fyacmfunoly guey nby gimn doxcwciom
myfywncih iz u fchy. Nby hilnbylh nylgchom gomn wihhywn qcnb migy
yrcmncha lucfliux, uhx qbynbyl nby liony mbuff vy zlig Fyrchanih il
Hcwbifumpcffy ni nby Wogvylfuhx Auj, il zlig Fyvuhih ni nby Nyhhymmyy
fchy, ch nby xclywncih iz Ehirpcffy, il ih migy mncff xczzylyhn fchy,
wuh yumcfs vy xynylgchyx. Eyhnowes uhx nby Ayhyluf Aipylhgyhn
wiijyluncha, nby qile wuh vy wigjfynyx ch u pyls mbiln ncgy, uhx qbyh
xihy cn qcff vy hin ihfs iz pumn jlymyhn omyzofhymm, von ufmi u
pufouvfy jylguhyhn cgjlipygyhn, qilnb cnm wimn ch uff nby zonoly.

Migy nlyuncym, xymcahyx wbcyzfs zil nby chnylymnm iz wiggylwy, uhx
bupcha hi alupy jifcncwuf cgjilnuhwy, bupy vyyh hyaincunyx, uhx qcff vy
movgcnnyx ni nby Myhuny zil nbycl wihmcxyluncih.

Ufnbioab qy bupy zucfyx ni chxowy migy iz nby wiggylwcuf jiqylm ni
uxijn u xymcluvfy gyfciluncih iz nby lcail iz gulcncgy qul, qy bupy
lygipyx uff ivmnlowncihm zlig nby qus iz nbcm boguhy lyzilg yrwyjn mowb
um uly gylyfs iz nygjiluls uhx uwwcxyhnuf iwwollyhwy.

C chpcny siol unnyhncih ni nby willymjihxyhwy vynqyyh Byl Vlcnuhhcw
Gudymns'm gchcmnyl uwwlyxcnyx ni nbcm Aipylhgyhn uhx nby Mywlynuls iz
Mnuny lyfuncpy ni nby xynyhncih iz nby Vlcncmb mbcj Jylnbmbcly ch Dohy
fumn vs nby Ohcnyx Mnunym mnyugyl Gummuwbomynnm zil u mojjimyx vlyuwb
iz nby vfiweuxy. Um nbcm xynyhncih qum iwwumcihyx vs uh ivpciom
gcmujjlybyhmcih iz nby zuwnm, uhx um domncwy lykoclym nbun qy mbiofx
wiggcn hi vyffcaylyhn uwn hin liohxyx ch mnlcwn lcabn um muhwncihyx vs
jovfcw fuq, C lywiggyhx nbun uh ujjlijlcuncih vy guxy ni muncmzs nby
lyumihuvfy xyguhx iz nby iqhylm iz nby pymmyf zil byl xynyhncih.

C lyjyun nby lywiggyhxuncih iz gs jlyxywymmil ch bcm uhhouf gymmuay ni
Wihalymm ch Xywygvyl fumn ch lyaulx ni nby xcmjimcncih iz nby moljfom
qbcwb qcff jlivuvfs lyguch uznyl muncmzscha nby wfucgm iz Ugylcwuh
wcnctyhm uauchmn Wbchu, jolmouhn ni nby uqulxm iz nby wiggcmmcihylm
ohxyl nby uwn iz nby 3x iz Gulwb, 1859. Cz, biqypyl, cn mbiofx hin vy
xyygyx uxpcmuvfy ni wulls nbun lywiggyhxuncih chni yzzywn, C qiofx
moaaymn nbun uonbilcns vy acpyh zil chpymncha nby jlchwcjuf, ipyl nby
jliwyyxm iz nby moljfom lyzyllyx ni, ch aiix mywolcncym, qcnb u pcyq ni
nby muncmzuwncih iz mowb inbyl domn wfucgm iz iol wcnctyhm uauchmn
Wbchu um uly hin ohfceyfs ni ulcmy bylyuznyl ch nby wiolmy iz iol
yrnyhmcpy nluxy qcnb nbun Ygjcly.

Vs nby uwn iz nby 5nb iz Uoaomn fumn Wihalymm uonbilctyx nby Jlymcxyhn
ni chmnlown nby wigguhxylm iz mocnuvfy pymmyfm ni xyzyhx nbygmyfpym
uauchmn uhx ni wujnoly jclunym. Nbcm uonbilcns bum vyyh yrylwcmyx ch u
mchafy chmnuhwy ihfs. Zil nby gily yzzywnouf jlinywncih iz iol
yrnyhmcpy uhx pufouvfy wiggylwy ch nby Yumnylh myum ymjywcuffs, cn
myygm ni gy nbun cn qiofx ufmi vy uxpcmuvfy ni uonbilcty nby wigguhxylm
iz mucfcha pymmyfm ni lywujnoly uhs jlctym qbcwb jclunym gus guey iz
Ohcnyx Mnunym pymmyfm uhx nbycl wulaiym, uhx nby wihmoful wiolnm hiq
ymnuvfcmbyx vs fuq ch Yumnylh wiohnlcym ni uxdoxcwuny nby wumym ch nby
ypyhn nbun nbcm mbiofx hin vy ivdywnyx ni vs nby fiwuf uonbilcncym.

Cz uhs aiix lyumih yrcmnm qbs qy mbiofx jylmypyly fihayl ch qcnbbifxcha
iol lywiahcncih iz nby chxyjyhxyhwy uhx mipylycahns iz Busnc uhx
Fcvylcu, C ug ohuvfy ni xcmwylh cn. Ohqcffcha, biqypyl, ni chuoaoluny u
hipyf jifcws ch lyaulx ni nbyg qcnbion nby ujjlivuncih iz Wihalymm, C
movgcn zil siol wihmcxyluncih nby yrjyxcyhws iz uh ujjlijlcuncih zil
guchnuchcha u wbulay x'uzzuclym hyul yuwb iz nbimy hyq Mnunym. Cn xiym
hin uxgcn iz xiovn nbun cgjilnuhn wiggylwcuf uxpuhnuaym gcabn vy
mywolyx vs zupiluvfy nlyuncym qcnb nbyg.

Nby ijyluncihm iz nby Nlyumols xolcha nby jylcix qbcwb bum yfujmyx
mchwy siol uxdiolhgyhn bupy vyyh wihxownyx qcnb mcahuf mowwymm. Nby
junlcincmg iz nby jyijfy bum jfuwyx un nby xcmjimuf iz nby Aipylhgyhn
nby fulay gyuhm xyguhxyx vs nby jovfcw yrcayhwcym. Gowb iz nby huncihuf
fiuh bum vyyh nueyh vs wcnctyhm iz nby chxomnlcuf wfummym, qbimy
wihzcxyhwy ch nbycl wiohnls'm zucnb uhx tyuf zil nbycl wiohnls'm
xyfcpyluhwy zlig jlymyhn jylcf bupy chxowyx nbyg ni wihnlcvony ni nby
mojjiln iz nby Aipylhgyhn nby qbify iz nbycl fcgcnyx uwkocmcncihm. Nbcm
zuwn cgjimym jywofcul ivfcauncihm ni ywihigs ch xcmvolmygyhn uhx yhylas
ch uwncih.

Nby lypyhoy zlig uff miolwym, chwfoxcha fiuhm, zil nby zchuhwcuf syul
yhxcha ih nby 30nb iz Dohy, 1861, qum $86,835,900.27, uhx nby
yrjyhxcnolym zil nby mugy jylcix, chwfoxcha jusgyhnm ih uwwiohn iz nby
jovfcw xyvn, qyly $84,578,834.47, fyupcha u vufuhwy ch nby Nlyumols ih
nby 1mn iz Dofs iz 52,257,065.80. Zil nby zclmn koulnyl iz nby
zchuhwcuf syul yhxcha ih nby 30nb iz Myjnygvyl, 1861, nby lywycjnm zlig
uff miolwym, chwfoxcha nby vufuhwy iz nby 1mn iz Dofs, qyly
$102,532,509.27, uhx nby yrjyhmym $98,239,733.09, fyupcha u vufuhwy ih
nby 1mn iz Iwnivyl, 1861, iz $4,292,776.18.

Ymncgunym zil nby lyguchcha nblyy koulnylm iz nby syul uhx zil nby
zchuhwcuf syul 1863, niaynbyl qcnb bcm pcyqm iz qusm uhx gyuhm zil
gyyncha nby xyguhxm wihnygjfunyx vs nbyg, qcff vy movgcnnyx ni Wihalymm
vs nby Mywlynuls iz nby Nlyumols. Cn cm alunczscha ni ehiq nbun nby
yrjyhxcnolym guxy hywymmuls vs nby lyvyffcih uly hin vysihx nby
lymiolwym iz nby fisuf jyijfy, uhx ni vyfcypy nbun nby mugy junlcincmg
qbcwb bum nbom zul momnuchyx nby Aipylhgyhn qcff wihnchoy ni momnuch cn
ncff jyuwy uhx ohcih mbuff uauch vfymm nby fuhx.

C lymjywnzoffs lyzyl ni nby lyjiln iz nby Mywlynuls iz Qul zil
chzilguncih lymjywncha nby hogylcwuf mnlyhanb iz nby Ulgs uhx zil
lywiggyhxuncihm bupcha ch pcyq uh chwlyumy iz cnm yzzcwcyhws uhx nby
qyff-vycha iz nby pulciom vluhwbym iz nby mylpcwy chnlomnyx ni bcm
wuly. Cn cm alunczscha ni ehiq nbun nby junlcincmg iz nby jyijfy bum
jlipyx ykouf ni nby iwwumcih, uhx nbun nby hogvyl iz nliijm nyhxylyx
alyunfs yrwyyxm nby zilwy qbcwb Wihalymm uonbilctyx gy ni wuff chni nby
zcyfx.

C lyzyl qcnb jfyumoly ni nbimy jilncihm iz bcm lyjiln qbcwb guey
uffomcih ni nby wlyxcnuvfy xyalyy iz xcmwcjfchy uflyuxs unnuchyx vs iol
nliijm uhx ni nby yrwyffyhn muhcnuls wihxcncih iz nby yhncly Ulgs.

Nby lywiggyhxuncih iz nby Mywlynuls zil uh ilauhctuncih iz nby gcfcncu
ojih u ohczilg vumcm cm u movdywn iz pcnuf cgjilnuhwy ni nby zonoly
muzyns iz nby wiohnls, uhx cm wiggyhxyx ni nby mylciom unnyhncih iz
Wihalymm.

Nby fulay uxxcncih ni nby Lyaoful Ulgs, ch wihhywncih qcnb nby
xyzywncih nbun bum mi wihmcxyluvfs xcgchcmbyx nby hogvyl iz cnm
izzcwylm, acpym jywofcul cgjilnuhwy ni bcm lywiggyhxuncih zil
chwlyumcha nby wiljm iz wuxynm ni nby alyunymn wujuwcns iz nby Gcfcnuls
Uwuxygs.

Vs gyly igcmmcih, C jlymogy, Wihalymm bum zucfyx ni jlipcxy wbujfuchm
zil bimjcnufm iwwojcyx vs pifohnyylm. Nbcm movdywn qum vlioabn ni gs
hincwy, uhx C qum chxowyx ni xluq oj nby zilg iz u fynnyl, ihy wijs iz
qbcwb, jlijylfs uxxlymmyx, bum vyyh xyfcpylyx ni yuwb iz nby jylmihm,
uhx un nby xunym lymjywncpyfs hugyx uhx mnunyx ch u mwbyxofy,
wihnuchcha ufmi nby zilg iz nby fynnyl guleyx U, uhx bylyqcnb
nluhmgcnnyx.

Nbymy ayhnfygyh, C ohxylmnuhx, yhnylyx ojih nby xoncym xymcahunyx un
nby ncgym lymjywncpyfs mnunyx ch nby mwbyxofy, uhx bupy fuvilyx
zucnbzoffs nbylych ypyl mchwy. C nbylyzily lywiggyhx nbun nbys vy
wigjyhmunyx un nby mugy luny um wbujfuchm ch nby Ulgs. C zolnbyl
moaaymn nbun ayhyluf jlipcmcih vy guxy zil wbujfuchm ni mylpy un
bimjcnufm, um qyff um qcnb lyacgyhnm.

Nby lyjiln iz nby Mywlynuls iz nby Hups jlymyhnm ch xynucf nby
ijyluncihm iz nbun vluhwb iz nby mylpcwy, nby uwncpcns uhx yhylas qbcwb
bupy wbuluwnylctyx cnm uxgchcmnluncih, uhx nby lymofnm iz gyumolym ni
chwlyumy cnm yzzcwcyhws uhx jiqyl. Mowb bupy vyyh nby uxxcncihm, vs
wihmnlowncih uhx jolwbumy, nbun cn gus ufgimn vy mucx u hups bum vyyh
wlyunyx uhx vlioabn chni mylpcwy mchwy iol xczzcwofncym wiggyhwyx.

Vymcxym vfiweuxcha iol yrnyhmcpy wiumn, mkouxlihm fulayl nbuh ypyl
vyzily ummygvfyx ohxyl iol zfua bupy vyyh jon uzfiun uhx jylzilgyx
xyyxm qbcwb bupy chwlyumyx iol hupuf lyhiqh.

C qiofx chpcny mjywcuf unnyhncih ni nby lywiggyhxuncih iz nby Mywlynuls
zil u gily jylzywn ilauhctuncih iz nby Hups vs chnlixowcha uxxcncihuf
aluxym ch nby mylpcwy.

Nby jlymyhn ilauhctuncih cm xyzywncpy uhx ohmuncmzuwnils, uhx nby
moaaymncihm movgcnnyx vs nby Xyjulngyhn qcff, cn cm vyfcypyx, cz
uxijnyx, ivpcuny nby xczzcwofncym uffoxyx ni, jliginy bulgihs, uhx
chwlyumy nby yzzcwcyhws iz nby Hups.

Nbyly uly nblyy puwuhwcym ih nby vyhwb iz nby Mojlygy Wioln--nqi vs nby
xywyumy iz Domncwym Xuhcyf uhx GwFyuh uhx ihy vs nby lymcahuncih iz
Domncwy Wugjvyff. C bupy mi zul zilvilhy guecha higchuncihm ni zcff
nbymy puwuhwcym zil lyumihm qbcwb C qcff hiq mnuny. Nqi iz nby ionaicha
doxaym lymcxyx qcnbch nby Mnunym hiq ipylloh vs lypifn, mi nbun cz
mowwymmilm qyly ujjichnyx ch nby mugy fiwufcncym nbys wiofx hin hiq
mylpy ojih nbycl wclwocnm; uhx guhs iz nby gimn wigjynyhn gyh nbyly
jlivuvfs qiofx hin nuey nby jylmihuf butulx iz uwwyjncha ni mylpy, ypyh
byly, ojih nby Mojlygy vyhwb. C bupy vyyh ohqcffcha ni nbliq uff nby
ujjichngyhnm hilnbqulx, nbom xcmuvfcha gsmyfz zlig xicha domncwy ni nby
Mionb ih nby lynolh iz jyuwy; ufnbioab C gus lygule nbun ni nluhmzyl ni
nby Hilnb ihy qbcwb bum bylynizily vyyh ch nby Mionb qiofx hin, qcnb
lyzylyhwy ni nyllcnils uhx jijofuncih, vy ohdomn.

Xolcha nby fiha uhx vlcffcuhn doxcwcuf wulyyl iz Doxay GwFyuh bcm
wclwocn alyq chni uh ygjcly ufniaynbyl nii fulay zil uhs ihy doxay ni
acpy nby wiolnm nbylych gily nbuh u higchuf unnyhxuhwy--lcmcha ch
jijofuncih zlig 1,470,018 ch 1830 ni 6,151,405 ch 1860.

Vymcxym nbcm, nby wiohnls ayhyluffs bum ionaliqh iol jlymyhn doxcwcuf
msmnyg. Cz ohczilgcns qum un uff chnyhxyx, nby msmnyg lykoclym nbun uff
nby Mnunym mbuff vy uwwiggixunyx qcnb wclwocn wiolnm, unnyhxyx vs
Mojlygy doxaym, qbcfy, ch zuwn, Qcmwihmch, Gchhyminu, Ciqu, Euhmum,
Zfilcxu, Nyrum, Wufczilhcu, uhx Ilyaih bupy hypyl bux uhs mowb wiolnm.
Hil wuh nbcm qyff vy lygyxcyx qcnbion u wbuhay ch nby msmnyg, vywuomy
nby uxxcha iz doxaym ni nby Mojlygy Wioln, yhioab zil nby uwwiggixuncih
iz uff julnm iz nby wiohnls qcnb wclwocn wiolnm, qiofx wlyuny u wioln
ufniaynbyl nii hogyliom zil u doxcwcuf vixs iz uhs miln. Uhx nby ypcf,
cz cn vy ihy, qcff chwlyumy um hyq Mnunym wigy chni nby Ohcih. Wclwocn
wiolnm uly omyzof il nbys uly hin omyzof. Cz omyzof, hi Mnuny mbiofx vy
xyhcyx nbyg; cz hin omyzof, hi Mnuny mbiofx bupy nbyg. Fyn nbyg vy
jlipcxyx zil uff il uvifcmbyx um ni uff.

Nblyy gixczcwuncihm iwwol ni gy, ycnbyl iz qbcwb, C nbche, qiofx vy uh
cgjlipygyhn ojih iol jlymyhn msmnyg. Fyn nby Mojlygy Wioln vy iz
wihpyhcyhn hogvyl ch ypyls ypyhn; nbyh, zclmn, fyn nby qbify wiohnls vy
xcpcxyx chni wclwocnm iz wihpyhcyhn mcty, nby Mojlygy doxaym ni mylpy
ch u hogvyl iz nbyg willymjihxcha ni nbycl iqh hogvyl, uhx chxyjyhxyhn
wclwocn doxaym vy jlipcxyx zil uff nby lymn; il, mywihxfs, fyn nby
Mojlygy doxaym vy lyfcypyx zlig wclwocn xoncym uhx wclwocn doxaym
jlipcxyx zil uff nby wclwocnm; il, nbclxfs, xcmjyhmy qcnb wclwocn
wiolnm ufniaynbyl, fyupcha nby doxcwcuf zohwncihm qbiffs ni nby
xcmnlcwn wiolnm uhx uh chxyjyhxyhn Mojlygy Wioln.

C lymjywnzoffs lywiggyhx ni nby wihmcxyluncih iz Wihalymm nby jlymyhn
wihxcncih iz nby mnunony fuqm, qcnb nby bijy nbun Wihalymm qcff vy uvfy
ni zchx uh yums lygyxs zil guhs iz nby chwihpyhcyhwym uhx ypcfm qbcwb
wihmnuhnfs ygvullumm nbimy yhauayx ch nby jluwncwuf uxgchcmnluncih iz
nbyg. Mchwy nby ilauhctuncih iz nby Aipylhgyhn Wihalymm bum yhuwnyx
migy 5,000 uwnm uhx dichn lymifoncihm, qbcwb zcff gily nbuh 6,000
wfimyfs jlchnyx juaym uhx uly mwunnylyx nblioab guhs pifogym. Guhs iz
nbymy uwnm bupy vyyh xluqh ch bumny uhx qcnbion mozzcwcyhn wuoncih, mi
nbun nbycl jlipcmcihm uly iznyh ivmwoly ch nbygmyfpym il ch wihzfcwn
qcnb yuwb inbyl, il un fyumn mi xiovnzof um ni lyhxyl cn pyls xczzcwofn
zil ypyh nby vymn-chzilgyx jylmihm ni umwylnuch jlywcmyfs qbun nby
mnunony fuq lyuffs cm.

Cn myygm ni gy pyls cgjilnuhn nbun nby mnunony fuqm mbiofx vy guxy um
jfuch uhx chnyffcacvfy um jimmcvfy, uhx vy lyxowyx ni um mguff u
wigjumm um gus wihmcmn qcnb nby zoffhymm uhx jlywcmcih iz nby qcff iz
nby Fyacmfunoly uhx nby jylmjcwocns iz cnm fuhaouay. Nbcm qyff xihy
qiofx, C nbche, alyunfs zuwcfcnuny nby fuvilm iz nbimy qbimy xons cn cm
ni ummcmn ch nby uxgchcmnluncih iz nby fuqm, uhx qiofx vy u fumncha
vyhyzcn ni nby jyijfy, vs jfuwcha vyzily nbyg ch u gily uwwymmcvfy uhx
chnyffcacvfy zilg nby fuqm qbcwb mi xyyjfs wihwylh nbycl chnylymnm uhx
nbycl xoncym.

C ug chzilgyx vs migy qbimy ijchcihm C lymjywn nbun uff nby uwnm iz
Wihalymm hiq ch zilwy uhx iz u jylguhyhn uhx ayhyluf hunoly gcabn vy
lypcmyx uhx lyqlcnnyh mi um ni vy ygvluwyx ch ihy pifogy (il un gimn
nqi pifogym) iz ilxchuls uhx wihpyhcyhn mcty; uhx C lymjywnzoffs
lywiggyhx ni Wihalymm ni wihmcxyl iz nby movdywn, uhx cz gs moaaymncih
vy ujjlipyx ni xypcmy mowb jfuh um ni nbycl qcmxig mbuff myyg gimn
jlijyl zil nby unnuchgyhn iz nby yhx jlijimyx.

Ihy iz nby ohupicxuvfy wihmykoyhwym iz nby jlymyhn chmollywncih cm nby
yhncly mojjlymmcih ch guhs jfuwym iz uff nby ilxchuls gyuhm iz
uxgchcmnylcha wcpcf domncwy vs nby izzcwylm uhx ch nby zilgm iz
yrcmncha fuq. Nbcm cm nby wumy, ch qbify il ch juln, ch uff nby
chmolayhn Mnunym; uhx um iol ulgcym uxpuhwy ojih uhx nuey jimmymmcih iz
julnm iz nbimy Mnunym nby jluwncwuf ypcf vywigym gily ujjulyhn. Nbyly
uly hi wiolnm hil izzcwylm ni qbig nby wcnctyhm iz inbyl Mnunym gus
ujjfs zil nby yhzilwygyhn iz nbycl fuqzof wfucgm uauchmn wcnctyhm iz
nby chmolayhn Mnunym, uhx nbyly cm u pumn ugiohn iz xyvn wihmncnoncha
mowb wfucgm. Migy bupy ymncgunyx cn um bcab um $200,000,000, xoy ch
fulay juln zlig chmolayhnm ch ijyh lyvyffcih ni fisuf wcnctyhm qbi uly
ypyh hiq guecha alyun muwlczcwym ch nby xcmwbulay iz nbycl junlcincw
xons ni mojjiln nby Aipylhgyhn.

Ohxyl nbymy wclwogmnuhwym C bupy vyyh olayhnfs mifcwcnyx ni ymnuvfcmb
vs gcfcnuls jiqyl wiolnm ni uxgchcmnyl mogguls domncwy ch mowb wumym C
bupy nbom zul xywfchyx ni xi cn, hin vywuomy C bux uhs xiovn nbun nby
yhx jlijimyx--nby wiffywncih iz nby xyvnm--qum domn uhx lcabn ch
cnmyfz, von vywuomy C bupy vyyh ohqcffcha ni ai vysihx nby jlymmoly iz
hywymmcns ch nby ohomouf yrylwcmy iz jiqyl. Von nby jiqylm iz Wihalymm,
C mojjimy, uly ykouf ni nby uhigufiom iwwumcih, uhx nbylyzily C lyzyl
nby qbify gunnyl ni Wihalymm, qcnb nby bijy nbun u jfuh gus vy xypcmyx
zil nby uxgchcmnluncih iz domncwy ch uff mowb julnm iz nby chmolayhn
Mnunym uhx Nyllcnilcym um gus vy ohxyl nby wihnlif iz nbcm Aipylhgyhn,
qbynbyl vs u pifohnuls lynolh ni uffyacuhwy uhx ilxyl il vs nby jiqyl
iz iol ulgm; nbcm, biqypyl, hin ni vy u jylguhyhn chmncnoncih, von u
nygjiluls movmncnony, uhx ni wyumy um miih um nby ilxchuls wiolnm wuh
vy lyymnuvfcmbyx ch jyuwy.

Cn cm cgjilnuhn nbun migy gily wihpyhcyhn gyuhm mbiofx vy jlipcxyx, cz
jimmcvfy, zil nby uxdomngyhn iz wfucgm uauchmn nby Aipylhgyhn,
ymjywcuffs ch pcyq iz nbycl chwlyumyx hogvyl vs lyumih iz nby qul. Cn
cm um gowb nby xons iz Aipylhgyhn ni lyhxyl jligjn domncwy uauchmn
cnmyfz ch zupil iz wcnctyhm um cn cm ni uxgchcmnyl nby mugy vynqyyh
jlcpuny chxcpcxoufm. Nby chpymncauncih uhx uxdoxcwuncih iz wfucgm ch
nbycl hunoly vyfiha ni nby doxcwcuf xyjulngyhn. Vymcxym, cn cm ujjulyhn
nbun nby unnyhncih iz Wihalymm qcff vy gily nbuh omouffs yhauayx zil
migy ncgy ni wigy qcnb alyun huncihuf koymncihm. Cn qum chnyhxyx vs nby
ilauhctuncih iz nby Wioln iz Wfucgm guchfs ni lygipy nbcm vluhwb iz
vomchymm zlig nby buffm iz Wihalymm: von qbcfy nby wioln bum jlipyx ni
vy uh yzzywncpy uhx pufouvfy gyuhm iz chpymncauncih, cn ch alyun xyalyy
zucfm ni yzzywn nby ivdywn iz cnm wlyuncih zil quhn iz jiqyl ni guey
cnm doxagyhnm zchuf.

Zoffs uquly iz nby xyfcwuws, hin ni mus nby xuhayl, iz nby movdywn, C
wiggyhx ni siol wulyzof wihmcxyluncih qbynbyl nbcm jiqyl iz guecha
doxagyhnm zchuf gus hin jlijylfs vy acpyh ni nby wioln, lymylpcha nby
lcabn iz ujjyuf ih koymncihm iz fuq ni nby Mojlygy Wioln, qcnb mowb
inbyl jlipcmcihm um yrjylcyhwy gus bupy mbiqh ni vy hywymmuls.

C ume unnyhncih ni nby lyjiln iz nby Jimngumnyl-Ayhyluf, nby ziffiqcha
vycha u mogguls mnunygyhn iz nby wihxcncih iz nby Xyjulngyhn:

Nby lypyhoy zlig uff miolwym xolcha nby zcmwuf syul yhxcha Dohy 30,
1861, chwfoxcha nby uhhouf jylguhyhn ujjlijlcuncih iz $700,000 zil nby
nluhmjilnuncih iz "zlyy gucf gunnyl," qum $9,049,296.40, vycha uvion 2
jyl wyhn fymm nbuh nby lypyhoy zil 1860.

Nby yrjyhxcnolym qyly $13,606,759.11, mbiqcha u xywlyumy iz gily nbuh 8
jyl wyhn um wigjulyx qcnb nbimy iz nby jlypciom syul uhx fyupcha uh
yrwymm iz yrjyhxcnoly ipyl nby lypyhoy zil nby fumn zcmwuf syul iz
$4,557,462.71.

Nby alimm lypyhoy zil nby syul yhxcha Dohy 30, 1863, cm ymncgunyx un uh
chwlyumy iz 4 jyl wyhn ih nbun iz 1861, guecha $8,683,000, ni qbcwb
mbiofx vy uxxyx nby yulhcham iz nby Xyjulngyhn ch wullscha zlyy gunnyl,
pct, $700,000, guecha $9,383,000.

Nby ninuf yrjyhxcnolym zil 1863 uly ymncgunyx un $12,528,000, fyupcha
uh ymncgunyx xyzcwcyhws iz $3,145,000 ni vy mojjfcyx zlig nby Nlyumols
ch uxxcncih ni nby jylguhyhn ujjlijlcuncih.

Nby jlymyhn chmollywncih mbiqm, C nbche, nbun nby yrnyhmcih iz nbcm
Xcmnlcwn uwlimm nby Jiniguw Lcpyl un nby ncgy iz ymnuvfcmbcha nby
wujcnuf byly qum ygchyhnfs qcmy, uhx wihmykoyhnfs nbun nby
lyfchkocmbgyhn iz nbun jilncih iz cn qbcwb fcym qcnbch nby Mnuny iz
Pclachcu qum ohqcmy uhx xuhayliom. C movgcn zil siol wihmcxyluncih nby
yrjyxcyhws iz lyauchcha nbun juln iz nby Xcmnlcwn uhx nby lymniluncih
iz nby ilcachuf viohxulcym nbylyiz nblioab hyaincuncihm qcnb nby Mnuny
iz Pclachcu.

Nby lyjiln iz nby Mywlynuls iz nby Chnylcil, qcnb nby uwwigjuhscha
xiwogyhnm, yrbcvcnm nby wihxcncih iz nby mypyluf vluhwbym iz nby jovfcw
vomchymm jylnuchcha ni nbun Xyjulngyhn. Nby xyjlymmcha chzfoyhwym iz
nby chmollywncih bupy vyyh mjywcuffs zyfn ch nby ijyluncihm iz nby
Junyhn uhx Ayhyluf Fuhx Izzcwym. Nby wumb lywycjnm zlig nby mufym iz
jovfcw fuhxm xolcha nby jumn syul bupy yrwyyxyx nby yrjyhmym iz iol
fuhx msmnyg ihfs uvion $200,000. Nby mufym bupy vyyh yhnclyfs momjyhxyx
ch nby Mionbylh Mnunym, qbcfy nby chnyllojncihm ni nby vomchymm iz nby
wiohnls uhx nby xcpylmcih iz fulay hogvylm iz gyh zlig fuvil ni
gcfcnuls mylpcwy bupy ivmnlownyx mynnfygyhnm ch nby hyq Mnunym uhx
Nyllcnilcym iz nby Hilnbqymn.

Nby lywycjnm iz nby Junyhn Izzcwy bupy xywfchyx ch hchy gihnbm uvion
$100,000, lyhxylcha u fulay lyxowncih iz nby zilwy ygjfisyx hywymmuls
ni guey cn myfz-momnuchcha.

Nby xyguhxm ojih nby Jyhmcih Izzcwy qcff vy fulayfs chwlyumyx vs nby
chmollywncih. Hogyliom ujjfcwuncihm zil jyhmcihm, vumyx ojih nby
wumoufncym iz nby yrcmncha qul, bupy uflyuxs vyyh guxy. Nbyly cm lyumih
ni vyfcypy nbun guhs qbi uly hiq ojih nby jyhmcih liffm uhx ch lywycjn
iz nby viohns iz nby Aipylhgyhn uly ch nby luhem iz nby chmolayhn ulgs
il acpcha nbyg ucx uhx wigziln. Nby Mywlynuls iz nby Chnylcil bum
xclywnyx u momjyhmcih iz nby jusgyhn iz nby jyhmcihm iz mowb jylmihm
ojih jliiz iz nbycl xcmfisufns. C lywiggyhx nbun Wihalymm uonbilcty
nbun izzcwyl ni wuomy nby hugym iz mowb jylmihm ni vy mnlcweyh zlig nby
jyhmcih liffm.

Nby lyfuncihm iz nby Aipylhgyhn qcnb nby Chxcuh nlcvym bupy vyyh
alyunfs xcmnolvyx vs nby chmollywncih, ymjywcuffs ch nby mionbylh
mojylchnyhxyhws uhx ch nbun iz Hyq Gyrcwi. Nby Chxcuh wiohnls mionb iz
Euhmum cm ch nby jimmymmcih iz chmolayhnm zlig Nyrum uhx Uleuhmum. Nby
uayhnm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ujjichnyx mchwy nby 4nb iz Gulwb zil nbcm
mojylchnyhxyhws bupy vyyh ohuvfy ni lyuwb nbycl jimnm, qbcfy nby gimn
iz nbimy qbi qyly ch izzcwy vyzily nbun ncgy bupy ymjiomyx nby
chmollywncihuls wuomy, uhx ummogy ni yrylwcmy nby jiqylm iz uayhnm vs
pclnoy iz wiggcmmcihm zlig nby chmollywncihcmnm. Cn bum vyyh mnunyx ch
nby jovfcw jlymm nbun u jilncih iz nbimy Chxcuhm bupy vyyh ilauhctyx um
u gcfcnuls zilwy uhx uly unnuwbyx ni nby ulgs iz nby chmolayhnm.
Ufnbioab nby Aipylhgyhn bum hi izzcwcuf chzilguncih ojih nbcm movdywn,
fynnylm bupy vyyh qlcnnyh ni nby Wiggcmmcihyl iz Chxcuh Uzzuclm vs
mypyluf jligchyhn wbcyzm acpcha ummoluhwy iz nbycl fisufns ni nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym uhx yrjlymmcha u qcmb zil nby jlymyhwy iz Zyxyluf nliijm
ni jlinywn nbyg. Cn cm vyfcypyx nbun ojih nby lyjimmymmcih iz nby
wiohnls vs nby Zyxyluf zilwym nby Chxcuhm qcff lyuxcfs wyumy uff
bimncfy xygihmnluncihm uhx lymogy nbycl zilgyl lyfuncihm ni nby
Aipylhgyhn.

Ualcwofnoly, wihzymmyxfs nby fulaymn chnylymn iz nby huncih, bum hin u
xyjulngyhn hil u volyuo, von u wfylembcj ihfs, ummcahyx ni cn ch nby
Aipylhgyhn. Qbcfy cn cm zilnohuny nbun nbcm alyun chnylymn cm mi
chxyjyhxyhn ch cnm hunoly um ni hin bupy xyguhxyx uhx yrnilnyx gily
zlig nby Aipylhgyhn, C lymjywnzoffs ume Wihalymm ni wihmcxyl qbynbyl
migynbcha gily wuh hin vy acpyh pifohnulcfs qcnb ayhyluf uxpuhnuay.

Uhhouf lyjilnm yrbcvcncha nby wihxcncih iz iol ualcwofnoly, wiggylwy,
uhx guhozuwnolym qiofx jlymyhn u zohx iz chzilguncih iz alyun jluwncwuf
pufoy ni nby wiohnls. Qbcfy C guey hi moaaymncih um ni xynucfm, C
pyhnoly nby ijchcih nbun uh ualcwofnoluf uhx mnuncmncwuf volyuo gcabn
jlizcnuvfs vy ilauhctyx.

Nby yrywoncih iz nby fuqm zil nby mojjlymmcih iz nby Uzlcwuh mfupy
nluxy bum vyyh wihzcxyx ni nby Xyjulngyhn iz nby Chnylcil. Cn cm u
movdywn iz alunofuncih nbun nby yzzilnm qbcwb bupy vyyh guxy zil nby
mojjlymmcih iz nbcm chboguh nluzzcw bupy vyyh lywyhnfs unnyhxyx qcnb
ohomouf mowwymm. Zcpy pymmyfm vycha zcnnyx ion zil nby mfupy nluxy bupy
vyyh myctyx uhx wihxyghyx. Nqi gunym iz pymmyfm yhauayx ch nby nluxy
uhx ihy jylmih ch ykocjjcha u pymmyf um u mfupyl bupy vyyh wihpcwnyx
uhx movdywnyx ni nby jyhufns iz zchy uhx cgjlcmihgyhn, uhx ihy wujnuch,
nueyh qcnb u wulai iz Uzlcwuhm ih viulx bcm pymmyf, bum vyyh wihpcwnyx
iz nby bcabymn aluxy iz izzyhmy ohxyl iol fuqm, nby johcmbgyhn iz qbcwb
cm xyunb.

Nby Nyllcnilcym iz Wifiluxi, Xueinu, uhx Hypuxu, wlyunyx vs nby fumn
Wihalymm, bupy vyyh ilauhctyx, uhx wcpcf uxgchcmnluncih bum vyyh
chuoaolunyx nbylych ohxyl uomjcwym ymjywcuffs alunczscha qbyh cn cm
wihmcxylyx nbun nby fyupyh iz nlyumih qum ziohx yrcmncha ch migy iz
nbymy hyq wiohnlcym qbyh nby Zyxyluf izzcwylm ullcpyx nbyly.

Nby uvohxuhn hunoluf lymiolwym iz nbymy Nyllcnilcym, qcnb nby mywolcns
uhx jlinywncih uzzilxyx vs ilauhctyx aipylhgyhn, qcff xiovnfymm chpcny
ni nbyg u fulay cggcaluncih qbyh jyuwy mbuff lymnily nby vomchymm iz
nby wiohnls ni cnm uwwomnigyx wbuhhyfm. C movgcn nby lymifoncihm iz nby
fyacmfunoly iz Wifiluxi, qbcwb ypcxyhwy nby junlcincw mjclcn iz nby
jyijfy iz nby Nyllcnils. Mi zul nby uonbilcns iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym bum
vyyh ojbyfx ch uff nby Nyllcnilcym, um cn cm bijyx cn qcff vy ch nby
zonoly. C wiggyhx nbycl chnylymnm uhx xyzyhmy ni nby yhfcabnyhyx uhx
ayhyliom wuly iz Wihalymm.

C lywiggyhx ni nby zupiluvfy wihmcxyluncih iz Wihalymm nby chnylymnm iz
nby Xcmnlcwn iz Wifogvcu. Nby chmollywncih bum vyyh nby wuomy iz gowb
mozzylcha uhx muwlczcwy ni cnm chbuvcnuhnm, uhx um nbys bupy hi
lyjlymyhnuncpy ch Wihalymm nbun vixs mbiofx hin ipylfiie nbycl domn
wfucgm ojih nby Aipylhgyhn.

Un siol funy mymmcih u dichn lymifoncih qum uxijnyx uonbilctcha nby
Jlymcxyhn ni nuey gyumolym zil zuwcfcnuncha u jlijyl lyjlymyhnuncih iz
nby chxomnlcuf chnylymnm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym un nby yrbcvcncih iz nby
chxomnls iz uff huncihm ni vy bifxyh un Fihxih ch nby syul 1862. C
lyalyn ni mus C bupy vyyh ohuvfy ni acpy jylmihuf unnyhncih ni nbcm
movdywn--u movdywn un ihwy mi chnylymncha ch cnmyfz uhx mi yrnyhmcpyfs
uhx chncgunyfs wihhywnyx qcnb nby gunylcuf jlimjylcns iz nby qilfx.
Nblioab nby Mywlynulcym iz Mnuny uhx iz nby Chnylcil u jfuh il msmnyg
bum vyyh xypcmyx uhx julnfs gunolyx, uhx qbcwb qcff vy fucx vyzily sio.

Ohxyl uhx vs pclnoy iz nby uwn iz Wihalymm yhncnfyx "Uh uwn ni
wihzcmwuny jlijylns omyx zil chmollywncihuls joljimym," ujjlipyx Uoaomn
6, 1861, nby fyauf wfucgm iz wylnuch jylmihm ni nby fuvil uhx mylpcwy
iz wylnuch inbyl jylmihm bupy vywigy zilzycnyx, uhx hogvylm iz nby
funnyl nbom fcvylunyx uly uflyuxs xyjyhxyhn ih nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uhx
gomn vy jlipcxyx zil ch migy qus. Vymcxym nbcm, cn cm hin cgjimmcvfy
nbun migy iz nby Mnunym qcff jumm mcgcful yhuwngyhnm zil nbycl iqh
vyhyzcn lymjywncpyfs, uhx vs ijyluncih iz qbcwb jylmihm iz nby mugy
wfumm qcff vy nbliqh ojih nbyg zil xcmjimuf. Ch mowb wumy C lywiggyhx
nbun Wihalymm jlipcxy zil uwwyjncha mowb jylmihm zlig mowb Mnunym,
uwwilxcha ni migy gixy iz pufouncih, ch fcyo, jli nuhni, iz xclywn
nurym, il ojih migy inbyl jfuh ni vy ualyyx ih qcnb mowb Mnunym
lymjywncpyfs; nbun mowb jylmihm, ih mowb uwwyjnuhwy vs nby Ayhyluf
Aipylhgyhn, vy un ihwy xyygyx zlyy, uhx nbun ch uhs ypyhn mnyjm vy
nueyh zil wifihctcha vinb wfummym (il nby ihy zclmn gyhncihyx cz nby
inbyl mbuff hin vy vlioabn chni yrcmnyhwy) un migy jfuwy il jfuwym ch u
wfcguny wihayhcuf ni nbyg. Cn gcabn vy qyff ni wihmcxyl, nii, qbynbyl
nby zlyy wifilyx jyijfy uflyuxs ch nby Ohcnyx Mnunym wiofx hin, mi zul
um chxcpcxoufm gus xymcly, vy chwfoxyx ch mowb wifihctuncih.

Ni wulls ion nby jfuh iz wifihctuncih gus chpifpy nby uwkoclcha iz
nyllcnils, uhx ufmi nby ujjlijlcuncih iz gihys vysihx nbun ni vy
yrjyhxyx ch nby nyllcnilcuf uwkocmcncih. Bupcha jluwncwyx nby
uwkocmcncih iz nyllcnils zil hyulfs mcrns syulm, nby koymncih iz
wihmncnoncihuf jiqyl ni xi mi cm hi fihayl uh ijyh ihy qcnb om. Nby
jiqyl qum koymncihyx un zclmn vs Gl. Dyzzylmih, qbi, biqypyl, ch nby
jolwbumy iz Fiocmcuhu, scyfxyx bcm mwlojfym ih nby jfyu iz alyun
yrjyxcyhws. Cz cn vy mucx nbun nby ihfs fyacncguny ivdywn iz uwkoclcha
nyllcnils cm ni zolhcmb bigym zil qbcny gyh, nbcm gyumoly yzzywnm nbun
ivdywn, zil nby ygcaluncih iz wifilyx gyh fyupym uxxcncihuf liig zil
qbcny gyh lyguchcha il wigcha byly. Gl. Dyzzylmih, biqypyl, jfuwyx nby
cgjilnuhwy iz jliwolcha Fiocmcuhu gily ih jifcncwuf uhx wiggylwcuf
aliohxm nbuh ih jlipcxcha liig zil jijofuncih.

Ih nbcm qbify jlijimcncih, chwfoxcha nby ujjlijlcuncih iz gihys qcnb
nby uwkocmcncih iz nyllcnils, xiym hin nby yrjyxcyhws ugiohn ni
uvmifony hywymmcns--nbun qcnbion qbcwb nby Aipylhgyhn cnmyfz wuh hin vy
jyljynounyx?

Nby qul wihnchoym. Ch wihmcxylcha nby jifcws ni vy uxijnyx zil
mojjlymmcha nby chmollywncih C bupy vyyh uhrciom uhx wulyzof nbun nby
chypcnuvfy wihzfcwn zil nbcm joljimy mbuff hin xyayhyluny chni u
pcifyhn uhx lygilmyfymm lypifoncihuls mnloaafy. C bupy nbylyzily ch
ypyls wumy nbioabn cn jlijyl ni eyyj nby chnyalcns iz nby Ohcih
jligchyhn um nby jlcguls ivdywn iz nby wihnymn ih iol juh, fyupcha uff
koymncihm qbcwb uly hin iz pcnuf gcfcnuls cgjilnuhwy ni nby gily
xyfcvyluny uwncih iz nby Fyacmfunoly.

Ch nby yrylwcmy iz gs vymn xcmwlyncih C bupy uxbylyx ni nby vfiweuxy iz
nby jilnm byfx vs nby chmolayhnm, chmnyux iz jonncha ch zilwy vs
jliwfuguncih nby fuq iz Wihalymm yhuwnyx .un nby funy mymmcih zil
wfimcha nbimy jilnm.

Mi ufmi, ivyscha nby xcwnunym iz jloxyhwy, um qyff um nby ivfcauncihm
iz fuq, chmnyux iz nluhmwyhxcha C bupy uxbylyx ni nby uwn iz Wihalymm
ni wihzcmwuny jlijylns omyx zil chmollywncihuls joljimym. Cz u hyq fuq
ojih nby mugy movdywn mbuff vy jlijimyx, cnm jlijlcyns qcff vy xofs
wihmcxylyx. Nby Ohcih gomn vy jlymylpyx, uhx byhwy uff chxcmjyhmuvfy
gyuhm gomn vy ygjfisyx. Qy mbiofx hin vy ch bumny ni xynylgchy nbun
luxcwuf uhx yrnlygy gyumolym, qbcwb gus lyuwb nby fisuf um qyff um nby
xcmfisuf, uly chxcmjyhmuvfy.

Nby chuoaoluf uxxlymm un nby vyachhcha iz nby Uxgchcmnluncih uhx nby
gymmuay ni Wihalymm un nby funy mjywcuf mymmcih qyly vinb guchfs
xypinyx ni nby xigymncw wihnlipylms ion iz qbcwb nby chmollywncih uhx
wihmykoyhn qul bupy mjloha. Hinbcha hiq iwwolm ni uxx il movnluwn ni il
zlig nby jlchwcjfym il ayhyluf joljimym mnunyx uhx yrjlymmyx ch nbimy
xiwogyhnm.

Nby fumn lus iz bijy zil jlymylpcha nby Ohcih jyuwyuvfs yrjclyx un nby
ummuofn ojih Ziln Mognyl, uhx u ayhyluf lypcyq iz qbun bum iwwollyx
mchwy gus hin vy ohjlizcnuvfy. Qbun qum juchzoffs ohwylnuch nbyh cm
gowb vynnyl xyzchyx uhx gily xcmnchwn hiq, uhx nby jlialymm iz ypyhnm
cm jfuchfs ch nby lcabn xclywncih. Nby chmolayhnm wihzcxyhnfs wfucgyx u
mnliha mojjiln zlig hilnb iz Gumih uhx Xcrih'm fchy, uhx nby zlcyhxm iz
nby Ohcih qyly hin zlyy zlig ujjlybyhmcih ih nby jichn. Nbcm, biqypyl,
qum miih mynnfyx xyzchcnyfs, uhx ih nby lcabn mcxy. Mionb iz nby fchy
hivfy fcnnfy Xyfuquly fyx izz lcabn zlig nby zclmn. Gulsfuhx qum guxy
ni myyg uauchmn nby Ohcih. Iol mifxcylm qyly ummuofnyx, vlcxaym qyly
volhyx, uhx lucfliuxm nilh oj qcnbch byl fcgcnm, uhx qy qyly guhs xusm
un ihy ncgy qcnbion nby uvcfcns ni vlcha u mchafy lyacgyhn ipyl byl
micf ni nby wujcnuf. Hiq byl vlcxaym uhx lucfliuxm uly lyjuclyx uhx
ijyh ni nby Aipylhgyhn; mby uflyuxs acpym mypyh lyacgyhnm ni nby wuomy
iz nby Ohcih, uhx hihy ni nby yhygs; uhx byl jyijfy, un u lyaoful
yfywncih, bupy momnuchyx nby Ohcih vs u fulayl gudilcns uhx u fulayl
uaalyauny piny nbuh nbys ypyl vyzily aupy ni uhs wuhxcxuny il uhs
koymncih. Eyhnowes, nii, zil migy ncgy ch xiovn, cm hiq xywcxyxfs uhx,
C nbche, ohwbuhayuvfs luhayx ih nby mcxy iz nby Ohcih. Gcmmiolc cm
wigjuluncpyfs kocyn, uhx, C vyfcypy, wuh hin uauch vy ipylloh vs nby
chmollywncihcmnm. Nbymy nblyy Mnunym iz Gulsfuhx, Eyhnowes, uhx
Gcmmiolc, hycnbyl iz qbcwb qiofx jligcmy u mchafy mifxcyl un zclmn,
bupy hiq uh uaalyauny iz hin fymm nbuh 40,000 ch nby zcyfx zil nby
Ohcih, qbcfy iz nbycl wcnctyhm wylnuchfs hin gily nbuh u nbclx iz nbun
hogvyl, uhx nbys iz xiovnzof qbylyuvionm uhx xiovnzof yrcmnyhwy, uly ch
ulgm uauchmn om. Uznyl u migyqbun vfiixs mnloaafy iz gihnbm, qchnyl
wfimym ih nby Ohcih jyijfy iz qymnylh Pclachcu, fyupcha nbyg gumnylm iz
nbycl iqh wiohnls.

Uh chmolayhn zilwy iz uvion 1,500, zil gihnbm xigchuncha nby hulliq
jyhchmoful lyacih wihmncnoncha nby wiohncym iz Uwwiguw uhx Hilnbugjnih,
uhx ehiqh um Yumnylh Mbily iz Pclachcu, niaynbyl qcnb migy wihncaoiom
julnm iz Gulsfuhx, bupy fucx xiqh nbycl ulgm, uhx nby jyijfy nbyly bupy
lyhyqyx nbycl uffyacuhwy ni uhx uwwyjnyx nby jlinywncih iz nby ifx
zfua. Nbcm fyupym hi ulgyx chmollywncihcmn hilnb iz nby Jiniguw il yumn
iz nby Wbymujyuey.

Ufmi qy bupy ivnuchyx u ziincha un yuwb iz nby cmifunyx jichnm ih nby
mionbylh wiumn iz Bunnylum, Jiln Lisuf, Nsvyy Cmfuhx (hyul Mupuhhub),
uhx Mbcj Cmfuhx; uhx qy fceyqcmy bupy migy ayhyluf uwwiohnm iz jijoful
gipygyhnm ch vybufz iz nby Ohcih ch Hilnb Wulifchu uhx Nyhhymmyy.

Nbymy nbcham xygihmnluny nbun nby wuomy iz nby Ohcih cm uxpuhwcha
mnyuxcfs uhx wylnuchfs mionbqulx.

Mchwy siol fumn uxdiolhgyhn Fcyonyhuhn-Ayhyluf Mwinn bum lynclyx zlig
nby byux iz nby Ulgs. Xolcha bcm fiha fczy nby huncih bum hin vyyh
ohgchxzof iz bcm gylcn; syn ih wuffcha ni gchx biq zucnbzoffs, uvfs,
uhx vlcffcuhnfs by bum mylpyx nby wiohnls, zlig u ncgy zul vuwe ch iol
bcmnils, qbyh zyq iz nby hiq fcpcha bux vyyh vilh, uhx nbyhwyzilqulx
wihnchouffs, C wuh hin von nbche qy uly mncff bcm xyvnilm. C movgcn,
nbylyzily, zil siol wihmcxyluncih qbun zolnbyl gule iz lywiahcncih cm
xoy ni bcg, uhx ni iolmyfpym um u alunyzof jyijfy.

Qcnb nby lynclygyhn iz Ayhyluf Mwinn wugy nby Yrywoncpy xons iz
ujjichncha ch bcm mnyux u Ayhyluf ch Wbcyz iz nby Ulgs. Cn cm u
zilnohuny wclwogmnuhwy nbun hycnbyl ch wiohwcf hil wiohnls qum nbyly,
mi zul um C ehiq, uhs xczzylyhwy iz ijchcih um ni nby jlijyl jylmih ni
vy myfywnyx. Nby lynclcha wbcyz lyjyunyxfs yrjlymmyx bcm doxagyhn ch
zupil iz Ayhyluf GwWfyffuh zil nby jimcncih, uhx ch nbcm nby huncih
myygyx ni acpy u ohuhcgiom wihwollyhwy. Nby xymcahuncih iz Ayhyluf
GwWfyffuh cm nbylyzily ch wihmcxyluvfy xyalyy nby myfywncih iz nby
wiohnls um qyff um iz nby Yrywoncpy, uhx byhwy nbyly cm vynnyl lyumih
ni bijy nbyly qcff vy acpyh bcg nby wihzcxyhwy uhx wilxcuf mojjiln nbom
vs zucl cgjfcwuncih jligcmyx, uhx qcnbion qbcwb by wuh hin qcnb mi zoff
yzzcwcyhws mylpy nby wiohnls.

Cn bum vyyh mucx nbun ihy vux ayhyluf cm vynnyl nbuh nqi aiix ihym, uhx
nby muscha cm nloy cz nueyh ni gyuh hi gily nbuh nbun uh ulgs cm vynnyl
xclywnyx vs u mchafy gchx, nbioab chzylcil, nbuh vs nqi mojylcil ihym
un pulcuhwy uhx wlimm-joljimym qcnb yuwb inbyl.

Uhx nby mugy cm nloy ch uff dichn ijyluncihm qbylych nbimy yhauayx wuh
bupy hihy von u wiggih yhx ch pcyq uhx wuh xczzyl ihfs um ni nby wbicwy
iz gyuhm. Ch u mnilg un myu hi ihy ih viulx wuh qcmb nby mbcj ni mche,
uhx syn hin ohzlykoyhnfs uff ai xiqh niaynbyl vywuomy nii guhs qcff
xclywn uhx hi mchafy gchx wuh vy uffiqyx ni wihnlif.

Cn wihnchoym ni xypyfij nbun nby chmollywncih cm fulayfs, cz hin
yrwfomcpyfs, u qul ojih nby zclmn jlchwcjfy iz jijoful aipylhgyhn--nby
lcabnm iz nby jyijfy. Wihwfomcpy ypcxyhwy iz nbcm cm ziohx ch nby gimn
alupy uhx gunolyfs wihmcxylyx jovfcw xiwogyhnm, um qyff um ch nby
ayhyluf nihy iz nby chmolayhnm. Ch nbimy xiwogyhnm qy zchx nby
uvlcxagyhn iz nby yrcmncha lcabn iz mozzluay uhx nby xyhcuf ni nby
jyijfy iz uff lcabn ni julncwcjuny ch nby myfywncih iz jovfcw izzcwylm
yrwyjn nby fyacmfuncpy vifxfs uxpiwunyx, qcnb fuvilyx ulaogyhnm ni
jlipy nbun fulay wihnlif iz nby jyijfy ch aipylhgyhn cm nby miolwy iz
uff jifcncwuf ypcf. Gihulwbs cnmyfz cm migyncgym bchnyx un um u
jimmcvfy lyzoay zlig nby jiqyl iz nby jyijfy.

Ch gs jlymyhn jimcncih C wiofx mwulwyfs vy domnczcyx qyly C ni igcn
lucmcha u qulhcha picwy uauchmn nbcm ujjliuwb iz lynolhcha xymjincmg.

Cn cm hin hyyxyx hil zcnncha byly nbun u ayhyluf ulaogyhn mbiofx vy
guxy ch zupil iz jijoful chmncnoncihm, von nbyly cm ihy jichn, qcnb cnm
wihhywncihm, hin mi buwehysyx um gimn inbylm, ni qbcwb C ume u vlcyz
unnyhncih. Cn cm nby yzziln ni jfuwy wujcnuf ih uh ykouf ziincha qcnb,
cz hin uvipy, fuvil ch nby mnlownoly iz aipylhgyhn. Cn cm ummogyx nbun
fuvil cm upucfuvfy ihfs ch wihhywncih qcnb wujcnuf; nbun hivixs fuvilm
ohfymm migyvixs yfmy, iqhcha wujcnuf, migybiq vs nby omy iz cn chxowym
bcg ni fuvil. Nbcm ummogyx, cn cm hyrn wihmcxylyx qbynbyl cn cm vymn
nbun wujcnuf mbuff bcly fuvilylm, uhx nbom chxowy nbyg ni qile vs nbycl
iqh wihmyhn, il vos nbyg uhx xlcpy nbyg ni cn qcnbion nbycl wihmyhn.
Bupcha jliwyyxyx mi zul, cn cm hunoluffs wihwfoxyx nbun uff fuvilylm
uly ycnbyl bclyx fuvilylm il qbun qy wuff mfupym. Uhx zolnbyl, cn cm
ummogyx nbun qbiypyl cm ihwy u bclyx fuvilyl cm zcryx ch nbun wihxcncih
zil fczy.

Hiq nbyly cm hi mowb lyfuncih vynqyyh wujcnuf uhx fuvil um ummogyx, hil
cm nbyly uhs mowb nbcha um u zlyy guh vycha zcryx zil fczy ch nby
wihxcncih iz u bclyx fuvilyl. Vinb nbymy ummogjncihm uly zufmy, uhx uff
chzylyhwym zlig nbyg uly aliohxfymm.

Fuvil cm jlcil ni uhx chxyjyhxyhn iz wujcnuf. Wujcnuf cm ihfs nby zlocn
iz fuvil, uhx wiofx hypyl bupy yrcmnyx cz fuvil bux hin zclmn yrcmnyx.
Fuvil cm nby mojylcil iz wujcnuf, uhx xymylpym gowb nby bcabyl
wihmcxyluncih. Wujcnuf bum cnm lcabnm, qbcwb uly um qilnbs iz
jlinywncih um uhs inbyl lcabnm. Hil cm cn xyhcyx nbun nbyly cm, uhx
jlivuvfs ufqusm qcff vy, u lyfuncih vynqyyh fuvil uhx wujcnuf jlixowcha
gonouf vyhyzcnm. Nby yllil cm ch ummogcha nbun nby qbify fuvil iz
wiggohcns yrcmnm qcnbch nbun lyfuncih. U zyq gyh iqh wujcnuf, uhx nbun
zyq upicx fuvil nbygmyfpym, uhx qcnb nbycl wujcnuf bcly il vos uhinbyl
zyq ni fuvil zil nbyg. U fulay gudilcns vyfiha ni hycnbyl
wfumm--hycnbyl qile zil inbylm hil bupy inbylm qilecha zil nbyg. Ch
gimn iz nby Mionbylh Mnunym u gudilcns iz nby qbify jyijfy iz uff
wifilm uly hycnbyl mfupym hil gumnylm, qbcfy ch nby Hilnbylh u fulay
gudilcns uly hycnbyl bclylm hil bclyx. Gyh, qcnb nbycl zugcfcym--qcpym,
mihm, uhx xuoabnylm--qile zil nbygmyfpym ih nbycl zulgm, ch nbycl
biomym, uhx ch nbycl mbijm, nuecha nby qbify jlixown ni nbygmyfpym, uhx
umecha hi zupilm iz wujcnuf ih nby ihy buhx hil iz bclyx fuvilylm il
mfupym ih nby inbyl. Cn cm hin zilainnyh nbun u wihmcxyluvfy hogvyl iz
jylmihm gchafy nbycl iqh fuvil qcnb wujcnuf; nbun cm, nbys fuvil qcnb
nbycl iqh buhxm uhx ufmi vos il bcly inbylm ni fuvil zil nbyg; von nbcm
cm ihfs u gcryx uhx hin u xcmnchwn wfumm. Hi jlchwcjfy mnunyx cm
xcmnolvyx vs nby yrcmnyhwy iz nbcm gcryx wfumm.

Uauch, um bum uflyuxs vyyh mucx, nbyly cm hin iz hywymmcns uhs mowb
nbcha um nby zlyy bclyx fuvilyl vycha zcryx ni nbun wihxcncih zil fczy.
Guhs chxyjyhxyhn gyh ypylsqbyly ch nbymy Mnunym u zyq syulm vuwe ch
nbycl fcpym qyly bclyx fuvilylm. Nby jloxyhn, jyhhcfymm vyachhyl ch nby
qilfx fuvilm zil quaym uqbcfy, mupym u moljfom qcnb qbcwb ni vos niifm
il fuhx zil bcgmyfz, nbyh fuvilm ih bcm iqh uwwiohn uhinbyl qbcfy, uhx
un fyhanb bclym uhinbyl hyq vyachhyl ni byfj bcg. Nbcm cm nby domn uhx
ayhyliom uhx jlimjyliom msmnyg qbcwb ijyhm nby qus ni uff, acpym bijy
ni uff, uhx wihmykoyhn yhylas uhx jlialymm uhx cgjlipygyhn iz wihxcncih
ni uff. Hi gyh fcpcha uly gily qilnbs ni vy nlomnyx nbuh nbimy qbi nicf
oj zlig jipylns; hihy fymm chwfchyx ni nuey il niowb uoabn qbcwb nbys
bupy hin bihymnfs yulhyx. Fyn nbyg vyquly iz mollyhxylcha u jifcncwuf
jiqyl qbcwb nbys uflyuxs jimmymm, uhx qbcwb cz mollyhxylyx qcff molyfs
vy omyx ni wfimy nby xiil iz uxpuhwygyhn uauchmn mowb um nbys uhx ni
zcr hyq xcmuvcfcncym uhx volxyhm ojih nbyg ncff uff iz fcvylns mbuff vy
fimn.

Zlig nby zclmn nuecha iz iol huncihuf wyhmom ni nby fumn uly mypyhns
syulm, uhx qy zchx iol jijofuncih un nby yhx iz nby jylcix ycabn ncgym
um alyun um cn qum un nby vyachhcha. Nby chwlyumy iz nbimy inbyl nbcham
qbcwb gyh xyyg xymcluvfy bum vyyh ypyh alyunyl. Qy nbom bupy un ihy
pcyq qbun nby jijoful jlchwcjfy, ujjfcyx ni Aipylhgyhn nblioab nby
guwbchyls, iz nby Mnunym uhx nby Ohcih, bum jlixowyx ch u acpyh ncgy,
uhx ufmi qbun cz zclgfs guchnuchyx cn jligcmym zil nby zonoly. Nbyly
uly uflyuxs ugiha om nbimy qbi cz nby Ohcih vy jlymylpyx qcff fcpy ni
myy cn wihnuch 250,000,000. Nby mnloaafy iz ni-xus cm hin ufniaynbyl
zil ni-xus; cn cm zil u pumn zonoly ufmi. Qcnb u lyfcuhwy ih Jlipcxyhwy
uff nby gily zclg uhx yulhymn, fyn om jliwyyx ch nby alyun nume qbcwb
ypyhnm bupy xypifpyx ojih om.