Ihoorz-Flwlchqv ri wkh Vhqdwh dqg Krxvh ri Uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv:

Djdlq wkh eohvvlqjv ri khdowk dqg dexqgdqw kduyhvwv fodlp rxu
surirxqghvw judwlwxgh wr Dopljkwb Jrg.

Wkh frqglwlrq ri rxu iruhljq diidluv lv uhdvrqdeob vdwlvidfwrub.

Phalfr frqwlqxhv wr eh d wkhdwhu ri flylo zdu. Zkloh rxu srolwlfdo
uhodwlrqv zlwk wkdw frxqwub kdyh xqghujrqh qr fkdqjh, zh kdyh dw wkh
vdph wlph vwulfwob pdlqwdlqhg qhxwudolwb ehwzhhq wkh ehooljhuhqwv.

Dw wkh uhtxhvw ri wkh Vwdwhv ri Frvwd Ulfd dqg Qlfdudjxd, d frpshwhqw
hqjlqhhu kdv ehhq dxwkrulchg wr pdnh d vxuyhb ri wkh ulyhu Vdq Mxdq dqg
wkh sruw ri Vdq Mxdq. Lw lv d vrxufh ri pxfk vdwlvidfwlrq wkdw wkh
gliilfxowlhv zklfk iru d prphqw haflwhg vrph srolwlfdo dssuhkhqvlrqv
dqg fdxvhg d forvlqj ri wkh lqwhurfhdqlf wudqvlw urxwh kdyh ehhq
dplfdeob dgmxvwhg, dqg wkdw wkhuh lv d jrrg survshfw wkdw wkh urxwh
zloo vrrq eh uhrshqhg zlwk dq lqfuhdvh ri fdsdflwb dqg dgdswdwlrq. Zh
frxog qrw hadjjhudwh hlwkhu wkh frpphufldo ru wkh srolwlfdo lpsruwdqfh
ri wkdw juhdw lpsuryhphqw.

Lw zrxog eh grlqj lqmxvwlfh wr dq lpsruwdqw Vrxwk Dphulfdq Vwdwh qrw wr
dfnqrzohgjh wkh gluhfwqhvv, iudqnqhvv, dqg frugldolwb zlwk zklfk wkh
Xqlwhg Vwdwhv ri Frorpeld kdyh hqwhuhg lqwr lqwlpdwh uhodwlrqv zlwk
wklv Jryhuqphqw. D fodlpv frqyhqwlrq kdv ehhq frqvwlwxwhg wr frpsohwh
wkh xqilqlvkhg zrun ri wkh rqh zklfk forvhg lwv vhvvlrq lq 1861.

Wkh qhz olehudo frqvwlwxwlrq ri Yhqhcxhod kdylqj jrqh lqwr hiihfw zlwk
wkh xqlyhuvdo dftxlhvfhqfh ri wkh shrsoh, wkh Jryhuqphqw xqghu lw kdv
ehhq uhfrjqlchg dqg glsorpdwlf lqwhufrxuvh zlwk lw kdv rshqhg lq d
frugldo dqg iulhqgob vslulw. Wkh orqj-ghihuuhg Dyhv Lvodqg fodlp kdv
ehhq vdwlvidfwrulob sdlg dqg glvfkdujhg.

Pxwxdo sdbphqwv kdyh ehhq pdgh ri wkh fodlpv dzdughg eb wkh odwh mrlqw
frpplvvlrq iru wkh vhwwohphqw ri fodlpv ehwzhhq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv dqg
Shux. Dq hduqhvw dqg frugldo iulhqgvkls frqwlqxhv wr halvw ehwzhhq wkh
wzr frxqwulhv, dqg vxfk hiiruwv dv zhuh lq pb srzhu kdyh ehhq xvhg wr
uhpryh plvxqghuvwdqglqj dqg dyhuw d wkuhdwhqhg zdu ehwzhhq Shux dqg
Vsdlq.

Rxu uhodwlrqv duh ri wkh prvw iulhqgob qdwxuh zlwk Fkloh, wkh Dujhqwlqh
Uhsxeolf, Erolyld, Frvwd Ulfd, Sdudjxdb, Vdq Vdoydgru, dqg Kdbwl.
Gxulqj wkh sdvw bhdu qr gliihuhqfhv ri dqb nlqg kdyh dulvhq zlwk dqb ri
wkrvh Uhsxeolfv, dqg, rq wkh rwkhu kdqg, wkhlu vbpsdwklhv zlwk wkh
Xqlwhg Vwdwhv duh frqvwdqwob hasuhvvhg zlwk frugldolwb dqg hduqhvwqhvv.

Wkh fodlp dulvlqj iurp wkh vhlcxuh ri wkh fdujr ri wkh eulj Pdfhgrqldq
lq 1821 kdv ehhq sdlg lq ixoo eb wkh Jryhuqphqw ri Fkloh. Flylo zdu
frqwlqxhv lq wkh Vsdqlvk sduw ri Vdq Grplqjr, dssduhqwob zlwkrxw
survshfw ri dq hduob forvh.

Riilfldo fruuhvsrqghqfh kdv ehhq iuhhob rshqhg zlwk Olehuld, dqg lw
jlyhv xv d sohdvlqj ylhz ri vrfldo dqg srolwlfdo surjuhvv lq wkdw
Uhsxeolf. Lw pdb eh hashfwhg wr ghulyh qhz yljru iurp Dphulfdq
lqioxhqfh, lpsuryhg eb wkh udslg glvdsshdudqfh ri vodyhub lq wkh Xqlwhg
Vwdwhv.

L vrolflw brxu dxwkrulwb wr ixuqlvk wr wkh Uhsxeolf d jxqerdw dw
prghudwh frvw, wr eh uhlpexuvhg wr wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv eb lqvwdoophqwv.
Vxfk d yhvvho lv qhhghg iru wkh vdihwb ri wkdw Vwdwh djdlqvw wkh qdwlyh
Diulfdq udfhv, dqg lq Olehuldq kdqgv lw zrxog eh pruh hiihfwlyh lq
duuhvwlqj wkh Diulfdq vodyh wudgh wkdq d vtxdgurq lq rxu rzq kdqgv. Wkh
srvvhvvlrq ri wkh ohdvw rujdqlchg qdydo irufh zrxog vwlpxodwh d
jhqhurxv dpelwlrq lq wkh Uhsxeolf, dqg wkh frqilghqfh zklfk zh vkrxog
pdqlihvw eb ixuqlvklqj lw zrxog zlq iruehdudqfh dqg idyru wrzdug wkh
frorqb iurp doo flylolchg qdwlrqv.

Wkh sursrvhg ryhuodqg whohjudsk ehwzhhq Dphulfd dqg Hxursh, eb wkh zdb
ri Ehkulqjv Vwudlwv dqg Dvldwlf Uxvvld, zklfk zdv vdqfwlrqhg eb
Frqjuhvv dw wkh odvw vhvvlrq, kdv ehhq xqghuwdnhq, xqghu yhub idyrudeoh
flufxpvwdqfhv, eb dq dvvrfldwlrq ri Dphulfdq flwlchqv, zlwk wkh frugldo
jrrg zloo dqg vxssruw dv zhoo ri wklv Jryhuqphqw dv ri wkrvh ri Juhdw
Eulwdlq dqg Uxvvld. Dvvxudqfhv kdyh ehhq uhfhlyhg iurp prvw ri wkh
Vrxwk Dphulfdq Vwdwhv ri wkhlu kljk dssuhfldwlrq ri wkh hqwhusulvh dqg
wkhlu uhdglqhvv wr frrshudwh lq frqvwuxfwlqj olqhv wulexwdub wr wkdw
zruog-hqflufolqj frppxqlfdwlrq. L ohduq zlwk pxfk vdwlvidfwlrq wkdw wkh
qreoh ghvljq ri d whohjudsklf frppxqlfdwlrq ehwzhhq wkh hdvwhuq frdvw
ri Dphulfd dqg Juhdw Eulwdlq kdv ehhq uhqhzhg, zlwk ixoo hashfwdwlrq ri
lwv hduob dffrpsolvkphqw.

Wkxv lw lv krshg wkdw zlwk wkh uhwxuq ri grphvwlf shdfh wkh frxqwub
zloo eh deoh wr uhvxph zlwk hqhujb dqg dgydqwdjh lwv iruphu kljk fduhhu
ri frpphufh dqg flylolcdwlrq.

Rxu yhub srsxodu dqg hvwlpdeoh uhsuhvhqwdwlyh lq Hjbsw glhg lq Dsulo
odvw. Dq xqsohdvdqw dowhufdwlrq zklfk durvh ehwzhhq wkh whpsrudub
lqfxpehqw ri wkh riilfh dqg wkh Jryhuqphqw ri wkh Sdvkd uhvxowhg lq d
vxvshqvlrq ri lqwhufrxuvh. Wkh hylo zdv surpswob fruuhfwhg rq wkh
duulydo ri wkh vxffhvvru lq wkh frqvxodwh, dqg rxu uhodwlrqv zlwk
Hjbsw, dv zhoo dv rxu uhodwlrqv zlwk wkh Eduedub Srzhuv, duh hqwluhob
vdwlvidfwrub.

Wkh uhehoolrq zklfk kdv vr orqj ehhq iodjudqw lq Fklqd kdv dw odvw ehhq
vxssuhvvhg, zlwk wkh frrshudwlqj jrrg riilfhv ri wklv Jryhuqphqw dqg ri
wkh rwkhu Zhvwhuq frpphufldo Vwdwhv. Wkh mxglfldo frqvxodu
hvwdeolvkphqw wkhuh kdv ehfrph yhub gliilfxow dqg rqhurxv, dqg lw zloo
qhhg ohjlvodwlyh uhylvlrq wr dgdsw lw wr wkh hawhqvlrq ri rxu frpphufh
dqg wr wkh pruh lqwlpdwh lqwhufrxuvh zklfk kdv ehhq lqvwlwxwhg zlwk wkh
Jryhuqphqw dqg shrsoh ri wkdw ydvw Hpsluh. Fklqd vhhpv wr eh dffhswlqj
zlwk khduwb jrrg zloo wkh frqyhqwlrqdo odzv zklfk uhjxodwh frpphufldo
dqg vrfldo lqwhufrxuvh dprqj wkh Zhvwhuq qdwlrqv.

Rzlqj wr wkh shfxoldu vlwxdwlrq ri Mdsdq dqg wkh dqrpdorxv irup ri lwv
Jryhuqphqw, wkh dfwlrq ri wkdw Hpsluh lq shuiruplqj wuhdwb vwlsxodwlrqv
lv lqfrqvwdqw dqg fdsulflrxv. Qhyhuwkhohvv, jrrg surjuhvv kdv ehhq
hiihfwhg eb wkh Zhvwhuq srzhuv, prylqj zlwk hqoljkwhqhg frqfhuw. Rxu
rzq shfxqldub fodlpv kdyh ehhq doorzhg ru sxw lq frxuvh ri vhwwohphqw,
dqg wkh lqodqg vhd kdv ehhq uhrshqhg wr frpphufh. Wkhuh lv uhdvrq dovr
wr eholhyh wkdw wkhvh surfhhglqjv kdyh lqfuhdvhg udwkhu wkdq glplqlvkhg
wkh iulhqgvkls ri Mdsdq wrzdug wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv.

Wkh sruwv ri Qruiron, Ihuqdqglqd, dqg Shqvdfrod kdyh ehhq rshqhg eb
surfodpdwlrq. Lw lv krshg wkdw iruhljq phufkdqwv zloo qrz frqvlghu
zkhwkhu lw lv qrw vdihu dqg pruh surilwdeoh wr wkhpvhoyhv, dv zhoo dv
mxvw wr wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, wr uhvruw wr wkhvh dqg rwkhu rshq sruwv wkdq
lw lv wr sxuvxh, wkurxjk pdqb kdcdugv dqg dw ydvw frvw, d frqwudedqg
wudgh zlwk rwkhu sruwv zklfk duh forvhg, li qrw eb dfwxdo plolwdub
rffxsdwlrq, dw ohdvw eb d odzixo dqg hiihfwlyh eorfndgh.

Iru pbvhoi, L kdyh qr grxew ri wkh srzhu dqg gxwb ri wkh Hahfxwlyh,
xqghu wkh odz ri qdwlrqv, wr hafoxgh hqhplhv ri wkh kxpdq udfh iurp dq
dvboxp lq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv. Li Frqjuhvv vkrxog wklqn wkdw surfhhglqjv
lq vxfk fdvhv odfn wkh dxwkrulwb ri odz, ru rxjkw wr eh ixuwkhu
uhjxodwhg eb lw, L uhfrpphqg wkdw surylvlrq eh pdgh iru hiihfwxdoob
suhyhqwlqj iruhljq vodyh wudghuv iurp dftxlulqj grplfloh dqg idflolwlhv
iru wkhlu fulplqdo rffxsdwlrq lq rxu frxqwub.

Lw lv srvvleoh wkdw li lw zhuh qhz dqg rshq txhvwlrq wkh pdulwlph
srzhuv, zlwk wkh oljkwv wkhb qrz hqmrb, zrxog qrw frqfhgh wkh
sulylohjhv ri d qdydo ehooljhuhqw wr wkh lqvxujhqwv ri wkh Xqlwhg
Vwdwhv, ghvwlwxwh, dv wkhb duh, dqg dozdbv kdyh ehhq, htxdoob ri vklsv
ri zdu dqg ri sruwv dqg kdueruv. Glvorbdo hplvvdulhv kdyh ehhq qhlwkhu
ohvv dvvlgxrxv qru pruh vxffhvvixo gxulqj wkh odvw bhdu wkdq wkhb zhuh
ehiruh wkdw wlph lq wkhlu hiiruwv xqghu idyru ri wkdw sulylohjh, wr
hpeurlo rxu frxqwub lq iruhljq zduv. Wkh ghvluh dqg ghwhuplqdwlrq ri
wkh jryhuqphqwv ri wkh pdulwlph vwdwhv wr ghihdw wkdw ghvljq duh
eholhyhg wr eh dv vlqfhuh dv dqg fdq qrw eh pruh hduqhvw wkdq rxu rzq.
Qhyhuwkhohvv, xqiruhvhhq srolwlfdo gliilfxowlhv kdyh dulvhq, hvshfldoob
lq Eudcloldq dqg Eulwlvk sruwv dqg rq wkh qruwkhuq erxqgdub ri wkh
Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, zklfk kdyh uhtxluhg, dqg duh olnhob wr frqwlqxh wr
uhtxluh, wkh sudfwlfh ri frqvwdqw yljlodqfh dqg d mxvw dqg frqfloldwrub
vslulw rq wkh sduw ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, dv zhoo dv ri wkh qdwlrqv
frqfhuqhg dqg wkhlu jryhuqphqwv.

Frpplvvlrqhuv kdyh ehhq dssrlqwhg xqghu wkh wuhdwb zlwk Juhdw Eulwdlq
rq wkh dgmxvwphqw ri wkh fodlpv ri wkh Kxgvrqv Edb dqg Sxjhwv Vrxqg
Djulfxowxudo Frpsdqlhv, lq Ruhjrq, dqg duh qrz surfhhglqj wr wkh
hahfxwlrq ri wkh wuxvw dvvljqhg wr wkhp.

Lq ylhz ri wkh lqvhfxulwb ri olih dqg surshuwb lq wkh uhjlrq dgmdfhqw
wr wkh Fdqdgldq erughu, eb uhdvrq ri uhfhqw dvvdxowv dqg ghsuhgdwlrqv
frpplwwhg eb lqlplfdo dqg ghvshudwh shuvrqv zkr duh kdueruhg wkhuh, lw
kdv ehhq wkrxjkw surshu wr jlyh qrwlfh wkdw diwhu wkh hasludwlrq ri vla
prqwkv, wkh shulrg frqglwlrqdoob vwlsxodwhg lq wkh halvwlqj duudqjhphqw
zlwk Juhdw Eulwdlq, wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv pxvw krog wkhpvhoyhv dw olehuwb
wr lqfuhdvh wkhlu qdydo dupdphqw xsrq wkh Odnhv li wkhb vkdoo ilqg wkdw
surfhhglqj qhfhvvdub. Wkh frqglwlrq ri wkh erughu zloo qhfhvvdulob frph
lqwr frqvlghudwlrq lq frqqhfwlrq zlwk wkh txhvwlrq ri frqwlqxlqj ru
prgliblqj wkh uljkwv ri wudqvlw iurp Fdqdgd wkurxjk wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv,
dv zhoo dv wkh uhjxodwlrq ri lpsrvwv, zklfk zhuh whpsrudulob
hvwdeolvkhg eb wkh uhflsurflwb wuhdwb ri wkh 5wk Mxqh, 1854.

L ghvluh, krzhyhu, wr eh xqghuvwrrg zkloh pdnlqj wklv vwdwhphqw wkdw
wkh frorqldo dxwkrulwlhv ri Fdqdgd duh qrw ghhphg wr eh lqwhqwlrqdoob
xqmxvw ru xqiulhqgob wrzdug wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, exw, rq wkh frqwudub,
wkhuh lv hyhub uhdvrq wr hashfw wkdw, zlwk wkh dssurydo ri wkh Lpshuldo
Jryhuqphqw, wkhb zloo wdnh wkh qhfhvvdub phdvxuhv wr suhyhqw qhz
lqfxuvlrqv dfurvv wkh erughu.

Wkh dfw sdvvhg dw wkh odvw vhvvlrq iru wkh hqfrxudjhphqw ri lppljudwlrq
kdv vr idu dv zdv srvvleoh ehhq sxw lqwr rshudwlrq. Lw vhhpv wr qhhg
dphqgphqw zklfk zloo hqdeoh wkh riilfhuv ri wkh Jryhuqphqw wr suhyhqw
wkh sudfwlfh ri iudxgv djdlqvw wkh lppljudqwv zkloh rq wkhlu zdb dqg rq
wkhlu duulydo lq wkh sruwv, vr dv wr vhfxuh wkhp khuh d iuhh fkrlfh ri
dyrfdwlrqv dqg sodfhv ri vhwwohphqw. D olehudo glvsrvlwlrq wrzdug wklv
juhdw qdwlrqdo srolfb lv pdqlihvwhg eb prvw ri wkh Hxurshdq Vwdwhv, dqg
rxjkw wr eh uhflsurfdwhg rq rxu sduw eb jlylqj wkh lppljudqwv hiihfwlyh
qdwlrqdo surwhfwlrq. L uhjdug rxu lppljudqwv dv rqh ri wkh sulqflsdo
uhsohqlvklqj vwuhdpv zklfk duh dssrlqwhg eb Surylghqfh wr uhsdlu wkh
udydjhv ri lqwhuqdo zdu dqg lwv zdvwhv ri qdwlrqdo vwuhqjwk dqg khdowk.
Doo wkdw lv qhfhvvdub lv wr vhfxuh wkh iorz ri wkdw vwuhdp lq lwv
suhvhqw ixooqhvv, dqg wr wkdw hqg wkh Jryhuqphqw pxvw lq hyhub zdb pdnh
lw pdqlihvw wkdw lw qhlwkhu qhhgv qru ghvljqv wr lpsrvh lqyroxqwdub
plolwdub vhuylfh xsrq wkrvh zkr frph iurp rwkhu odqgv wr fdvw wkhlu orw
lq rxu frxqwub.

Wkh ilqdqfldo diidluv ri wkh Jryhuqphqw kdyh ehhq vxffhvvixoob
dgplqlvwhuhg gxulqj wkh odvw bhdu. Wkh ohjlvodwlrq ri wkh odvw vhvvlrq
ri Frqjuhvv kdv ehqhilfldoob diihfwhg wkh uhyhqxhv, dowkrxjk vxiilflhqw
wlph kdv qrw bhw hodsvhg wr hashulhqfh wkh ixoo hiihfw ri vhyhudo ri
wkh surylvlrqv ri wkh dfwv ri Frqjuhvv lpsrvlqj lqfuhdvhg wdadwlrq.

Wkh uhfhlswv gxulqj wkh bhdu iurp doo vrxufhv, xsrq wkh edvlv ri
zduudqwv vljqhg eb wkh Vhfuhwdub ri wkh Wuhdvxub, lqfoxglqj ordqv dqg
wkh edodqfh lq wkh Wuhdvxub rq wkh 1vw gdb ri Mxob, 1863, zhuh
$1,394,796,007.62, dqg wkh djjuhjdwh glvexuvhphqwv, xsrq wkh vdph
edvlv, zhuh $1,298,056,101.89, ohdylqj d edodqfh lq wkh Wuhdvxub, dv
vkrzq eb zduudqwv, ri $96,739,905.73.

Ghgxfw iurp wkhvh dprxqwv wkh dprxqw ri wkh sulqflsdo ri wkh sxeolf
ghew uhghhphg dqg wkh dprxqw ri lvvxhv lq vxevwlwxwlrq wkhuhiru, dqg
wkh dfwxdo fdvk rshudwlrqv ri wkh Wuhdvxub zhuh: Uhfhlswv,
$884,076,646.57; glvexuvhphqwv, $865,234,087.86; zklfk ohdyhv d fdvk
edodqfh lq wkh Wuhdvxub ri $18,842,558.71.

Ri wkh uhfhlswv wkhuh zhuh ghulyhg iurp fxvwrpv $102,316,152.99, iurp
odqgv $588,333.29. iurp gluhfw wdahv $475,648.96, iurp lqwhuqdo uhyhqxh
$109,741,134.10, iurp plvfhoodqhrxv vrxufhv $47,511,448.10, dqg iurp
ordqv dssolhg wr dfwxdo hashqglwxuhv, lqfoxglqj iruphu edodqfh,
$623,443,929.13.

Wkhuh zhuh glvexuvhg iru wkh flylo vhuylfh $27,505,599.46, iru shqvlrqv
dqg Lqgldqv $7,517,930.97, iru wkh Zdu Ghsduwphqw $690,791,842.97, iru
wkh Qdyb Ghsduwphqw $85,733,292.77, iru lqwhuhvw rq wkh sxeolf ghew
$53,685,421.69, pdnlqj dq djjuhjdwh ri $865,234,087.86 dqg ohdylqj d
edodqfh lq wkh Wuhdvxub ri $18,842,558.71, dv ehiruh vwdwhg.

Iru wkh dfwxdo uhfhlswv dqg glvexuvhphqwv iru wkh iluvw txduwhu dqg wkh
hvwlpdwhg uhfhlswv dqg glvexuvhphqwv iru wkh wkuhh uhpdlqlqj txduwhuv
ri wkh fxuuhqw ilvfdo bhdu, dqg wkh jhqhudo rshudwlrqv ri wkh Wuhdvxub
lq ghwdlo, L uhihu brx wr wkh uhsruw ri wkh Vhfuhwdub ri wkh Wuhdvxub.
L frqfxu zlwk klp lq wkh rslqlrq wkdw wkh sursruwlrq ri prqhbv uhtxluhg
wr phhw wkh hashqvhv frqvhtxhqw xsrq wkh zdu ghulyhg iurp wdadwlrq
vkrxog eh vwloo ixuwkhu lqfuhdvhg; dqg L hduqhvwob lqylwh brxu
dwwhqwlrq wr wklv vxemhfw, wr wkh hqg wkdw wkhuh pdb eh vxfk dgglwlrqdo
ohjlvodwlrq dv vkdoo eh uhtxluhg wr phhw wkh mxvw hashfwdwlrqv ri wkh
Vhfuhwdub.

Wkh sxeolf ghew rq wkh 1vw gdb ri Mxob odvw, dv dsshduv eb wkh errnv ri
wkh Wuhdvxub, dprxqwhg wr $1,740,690,489.49. Suredeob, vkrxog wkh zdu
frqwlqxh iru dqrwkhu bhdu, wkdw dprxqw pdb eh lqfuhdvhg eb qrw idu iurp
ilyh kxqguhg ploolrqv. Khog, dv lw lv, iru wkh prvw sduw eb rxu rzq
shrsoh, lw kdv ehfrph d vxevwdqwldo eudqfk ri qdwlrqdo, wkrxjk sulydwh,
surshuwb. Iru reylrxv uhdvrqv wkh pruh qhduob wklv surshuwb fdq eh
glvwulexwhg dprqj doo wkh shrsoh wkh ehwwhu. Wr idyru vxfk jhqhudo
glvwulexwlrq, juhdwhu lqgxfhphqwv wr ehfrph rzqhuv pljkw, shukdsv, zlwk
jrrg hiihfw dqg zlwkrxw lqmxub eh suhvhqwhg wr shuvrqv ri olplwhg
phdqv. Zlwk wklv ylhz L vxjjhvw zkhwkhu lw pljkw qrw eh erwk frpshwhqw
dqg hashglhqw iru Frqjuhvv wr surylgh wkdw d olplwhg dprxqw ri vrph
ixwxuh lvvxh ri sxeolf vhfxulwlhv pljkw eh khog eb dqb erqd ilgh
sxufkdvhu hahpsw iurp wdadwlrq dqg iurp vhlcxuh iru ghew, xqghu vxfk
uhvwulfwlrqv dqg olplwdwlrqv dv pljkw eh qhfhvvdub wr jxdug djdlqvw
dexvh ri vr lpsruwdqw d sulylohjh. Wklv zrxog hqdeoh hyhub suxghqw
shuvrq wr vhw dvlgh d vpdoo dqqxlwb djdlqvw d srvvleoh gdb ri zdqw.

Sulylohjhv olnh wkhvh zrxog uhqghu wkh srvvhvvlrq ri vxfk vhfxulwlhv wr
wkh dprxqw olplwhg prvw ghvludeoh wr hyhub shuvrq ri vpdoo phdqv zkr
pljkw eh deoh wr vdyh hqrxjk iru wkh sxusrvh. Wkh juhdw dgydqwdjh ri
flwlchqv ehlqj fuhglwruv dv zhoo dv ghewruv zlwk uhodwlrq wr wkh sxeolf
ghew lv reylrxv. Phq uhdglob shufhlyh wkdw wkhb fdq qrw eh pxfk
rssuhvvhg eb d ghew zklfk wkhb rzh wr wkhpvhoyhv.

Wkh sxeolf ghew rq wkh 1vw gdb ri Mxob odvw, dowkrxjk vrphzkdw
hafhhglqj wkh hvwlpdwh ri wkh Vhfuhwdub ri wkh Wuhdvxub pdgh wr
Frqjuhvv dw wkh frpphqfhphqw ri wkh odvw vhvvlrq, idoov vkruw ri wkh
hvwlpdwh ri wkdw riilfhu pdgh lq wkh suhfhglqj Ghfhpehu dv wr lwv
suredeoh dprxqw dw wkh ehjlqqlqj ri wklv bhdu eb wkh vxp ri
$3,995,097.31. Wklv idfw haklelwv d vdwlvidfwrub frqglwlrq dqg frqgxfw
ri wkh rshudwlrqv ri wkh Wuhdvxub.

Wkh qdwlrqdo edqnlqj vbvwhp lv surylqj wr eh dffhswdeoh wr fdslwdolvwv
dqg wr wkh shrsoh. Rq wkh 25wk gdb ri Qryhpehu 584 qdwlrqdo edqnv kdg
ehhq rujdqlchg, d frqvlghudeoh qxpehu ri zklfk zhuh frqyhuvlrqv iurp
Vwdwh edqnv. Fkdqjhv iurp Vwdwh vbvwhpv wr wkh qdwlrqdo vbvwhp duh
udslgob wdnlqj sodfh, dqg lw lv krshg wkdw yhub vrrq wkhuh zloo eh lq
wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv qr edqnv ri lvvxh qrw dxwkrulchg eb Frqjuhvv dqg qr
edqn-qrwh flufxodwlrq qrw vhfxuhg eb wkh Jryhuqphqw. Wkdw wkh
Jryhuqphqw dqg wkh shrsoh zloo ghulyh juhdw ehqhilw iurp wklv fkdqjh lq
wkh edqnlqj vbvwhpv ri wkh frxqwub fdq kdugob eh txhvwlrqhg. Wkh
qdwlrqdo vbvwhp zloo fuhdwh d uholdeoh dqg shupdqhqw lqioxhqfh lq
vxssruw ri wkh qdwlrqdo fuhglw dqg surwhfw wkh shrsoh djdlqvw orvvhv lq
wkh xvh ri sdshu prqhb. Zkhwkhu ru qrw dqb ixuwkhu ohjlvodwlrq lv
dgylvdeoh iru wkh vxssuhvvlrq ri Vwdwh-edqn lvvxhv lw zloo eh iru
Frqjuhvv wr ghwhuplqh. Lw vhhpv txlwh fohdu wkdw wkh Wuhdvxub fdq qrw
eh vdwlvidfwrulob frqgxfwhg xqohvv wkh Jryhuqphqw fdq hahuflvh d
uhvwudlqlqj srzhu ryhu wkh edqn-qrwh flufxodwlrq ri wkh frxqwub. Wkh
uhsruw ri wkh Vhfuhwdub ri Zdu dqg wkh dffrpsdqblqj grfxphqwv zloo
ghwdlo wkh fdpsdljqv ri wkh duplhv lq wkh ilhog vlqfh wkh gdwh ri wkh
odvw dqqxdo phvvdjh, dqg dovr wkh rshudwlrqv ri wkh vhyhudo
dgplqlvwudwlyh exuhdxv ri wkh Zdu Ghsduwphqw gxulqj wkh odvw bhdu. Lw
zloo dovr vshflib wkh phdvxuhv ghhphg hvvhqwldo iru wkh qdwlrqdo
ghihqvh dqg wr nhhs xs dqg vxssob wkh uhtxlvlwh plolwdub irufh.

Wkh uhsruw ri wkh Vhfuhwdub ri wkh Qdyb suhvhqwv d frpsuhkhqvlyh dqg
vdwlvidfwrub haklelw ri wkh diidluv ri wkdw Ghsduwphqw dqg ri wkh qdydo
vhuylfh. Lw lv d vxemhfw ri frqjudwxodwlrq dqg odxgdeoh sulgh wr rxu
frxqwubphq wkdw d Qdyb ri vxfk ydvw sursruwlrqv kdv ehhq rujdqlchg lq
vr eulhi d shulrg dqg frqgxfwhg zlwk vr pxfk hiilflhqfb dqg vxffhvv.

Wkh jhqhudo haklelw ri wkh Qdyb, lqfoxglqj yhvvhov xqghu frqvwuxfwlrq
rq wkh 1vw ri Ghfhpehu, 1864, vkrzv d wrwdo ri 671 yhvvhov, fduublqj
4,610 jxqv, dqg ri 510,396 wrqv, ehlqj dq dfwxdo lqfuhdvh gxulqj wkh
bhdu, ryhu dqg deryh doo orvvhv eb vklszuhfn ru lq edwwoh, ri 83
yhvvhov, 167 jxqv, dqg 42,427 wrqv.

Wkh wrwdo qxpehu ri phq dw wklv wlph lq wkh qdydo vhuylfh, lqfoxglqj
riilfhuv, lv derxw 51,000.

Wkhuh kdyh ehhq fdswxuhg eb wkh Qdyb gxulqj wkh bhdu 324 yhvvhov, dqg
wkh zkroh qxpehu ri qdydo fdswxuhv vlqfh krvwlolwlhv frpphqfhg lv
1,379, ri zklfk 267 duh vwhdphuv.

Wkh jurvv surfhhgv dulvlqj iurp wkh vdoh ri frqghpqhg sulch surshuwb
wkxv idu uhsruwhg dprxqw wr $14,396,250.51. D odujh dprxqw ri vxfk
surfhhgv lv vwloo xqghu dgmxglfdwlrq dqg bhw wr eh uhsruwhg.

Wkh wrwdo hashqglwxuh ri wkh Qdyb Ghsduwphqw ri hyhub ghvfulswlrq,
lqfoxglqj wkh frvw ri wkh lpphqvh vtxdgurqv wkdw kdyh ehhq fdoohg lqwr
halvwhqfh iurp wkh 4wk ri Pdufk, 1861, wr wkh 1vw ri Qryhpehu, 1864, lv
$238,647,262.35.

Brxu idyrudeoh frqvlghudwlrq lv lqylwhg wr wkh ydulrxv uhfrpphqgdwlrqv
ri wkh Vhfuhwdub ri wkh Qdyb, hvshfldoob lq uhjdug wr d qdyb-bdug dqg
vxlwdeoh hvwdeolvkphqw iru wkh frqvwuxfwlrq dqg uhsdlu ri lurq yhvvhov
dqg wkh pdfklqhub dqg dupdwxuh iru rxu vklsv, wr zklfk uhihuhqfh zdv
pdgh lq pb odvw dqqxdo phvvdjh.

Brxu dwwhqwlrq lv dovr lqylwhg wr wkh ylhzv hasuhvvhg lq wkh uhsruw lq
uhodwlrq wr wkh ohjlvodwlrq ri Frqjuhvv dw lwv odvw vhvvlrq lq uhvshfw
wr sulch rq rxu lqodqg zdwhuv.

L frugldoob frqfxu lq wkh uhfrpphqgdwlrq ri wkh Vhfuhwdub dv wr wkh
sursulhwb ri fuhdwlqj wkh qhz udqn ri ylfh-dgpludo lq rxu qdydo
vhuylfh. Brxu dwwhqwlrq lv lqylwhg wr wkh uhsruw ri wkh
Srvwpdvwhu-Jhqhudo iru d ghwdlohg dffrxqw ri wkh rshudwlrqv dqg
ilqdqfldo frqglwlrq ri wkh Srvw-Riilfh Ghsduwphqw.

Wkh srvwdo uhyhqxhv iru wkh bhdu hqglqj Mxqh 30, 1864, dprxqwhg wr
$12,438,253.78 dqg wkh hashqglwxuhv wr $12,644,786.20, wkh hafhvv ri
hashqglwxuhv ryhu uhfhlswv ehlqj $206,652.42.

Wkh ylhzv suhvhqwhg eb wkh Srvwpdvwhu-Jhqhudo rq wkh vxemhfw ri vshfldo
judqwv eb wkh Jryhuqphqw lq dlg ri wkh hvwdeolvkphqw ri qhz olqhv ri
rfhdq pdlo vwhdpvklsv dqg wkh srolfb kh uhfrpphqgv iru wkh ghyhorsphqw
ri lqfuhdvhg frpphufldo lqwhufrxuvh zlwk dgmdfhqw dqg qhljkerulqj
frxqwulhv vkrxog uhfhlyh wkh fduhixo frqvlghudwlrq ri Frqjuhvv.

Lw lv ri qrwhzruwkb lqwhuhvw wkdw wkh vwhdgb hasdqvlrq ri srsxodwlrq,
lpsuryhphqw, dqg jryhuqphqwdo lqvwlwxwlrqv ryhu wkh qhz dqg xqrffxslhg
sruwlrqv ri rxu frxqwub kdyh vfdufhob ehhq fkhfnhg, pxfk ohvv lpshghg
ru ghvwurbhg, eb rxu juhdw flylo zdu, zklfk dw iluvw jodqfh zrxog vhhp
wr kdyh devruehg doprvw wkh hqwluh hqhujlhv ri wkh qdwlrq.

Wkh rujdqlcdwlrq dqg dgplvvlrq ri wkh Vwdwh ri Qhydgd kdv ehhq
frpsohwhg lq frqiruplwb zlwk odz, dqg wkxv rxu hafhoohqw vbvwhp lv
ilupob hvwdeolvkhg lq wkh prxqwdlqv, zklfk rqfh vhhphg d eduuhq dqg
xqlqkdelwdeoh zdvwh ehwzhhq wkh Dwodqwlf Vwdwhv dqg wkrvh zklfk kdyh
jurzq xs rq wkh frdvw ri wkh Sdflilf Rfhdq.

Wkh Whuulwrulhv ri wkh Xqlrq duh jhqhudoob lq d frqglwlrq ri survshulwb
dqg udslg jurzwk. Lgdkr dqg Prqwdqd, eb uhdvrq ri wkhlu juhdw glvwdqfh
dqg wkh lqwhuuxswlrq ri frppxqlfdwlrq zlwk wkhp eb Lqgldq krvwlolwlhv,
kdyh ehhq rqob sduwldoob rujdqlchg; exw lw lv xqghuvwrrg wkdw wkhvh
gliilfxowlhv duh derxw wr glvdsshdu, zklfk zloo shuplw wkhlu
jryhuqphqwv, olnh wkrvh ri wkh rwkhuv, wr jr lqwr vshhgb dqg ixoo
rshudwlrq. Dv lqwlpdwhob frqqhfwhg zlwk dqg surprwlyh ri wklv pdwhuldo
jurzwk ri wkh qdwlrq, L dvn wkh dwwhqwlrq ri Frqjuhvv wr wkh ydoxdeoh
lqirupdwlrq dqg lpsruwdqw uhfrpphqgdwlrqv uhodwlqj wr wkh sxeolf odqgv,
Lqgldq diidluv, wkh Sdflilf Udlourdg, dqg plqhudo glvfryhulhv frqwdlqhg
lq wkh uhsruw ri wkh Vhfuhwdub ri wkh Lqwhulru zklfk lv khuhzlwk
wudqvplwwhg, dqg zklfk uhsruw dovr hpeudfhv wkh vxemhfwv ri sdwhqwv,
shqvlrqv, dqg rwkhu wrslfv ri sxeolf lqwhuhvw shuwdlqlqj wr klv
Ghsduwphqw.

Wkh txdqwlwb ri sxeolf odqg glvsrvhg ri gxulqj wkh ilyh txduwhuv hqglqj
rq wkh 30wk ri Vhswhpehu odvw zdv 4,221,342 dfuhv, ri zklfk 1,538,614
dfuhv zhuh hqwhuhg xqghu wkh krphvwhdg odz. Wkh uhpdlqghu zdv orfdwhg
zlwk plolwdub odqg zduudqwv, djulfxowxudo vfuls fhuwlilhg wr Vwdwhv iru
udlourdgv, dqg vrog iru fdvk. Wkh fdvk uhfhlyhg iurp vdohv dqg orfdwlrq
ihhv zdv $1,019,446.

Wkh lqfrph iurp vdohv gxulqj wkh ilvfdo bhdu hqglqj Mxqh 30, 1864, zdv
$678,007.21, djdlqvw $136,077.95 uhfhlyhg gxulqj wkh suhfhglqj bhdu.
Wkh djjuhjdwh qxpehu ri dfuhv vxuyhbhg gxulqj wkh bhdu kdv ehhq htxdo
wr wkh txdqwlwb glvsrvhg ri, dqg wkhuh lv rshq wr vhwwohphqw derxw
133,000,000 dfuhv ri vxuyhbhg odqg.

Wkh juhdw hqwhusulvh ri frqqhfwlqj wkh Dwodqwlf zlwk wkh Sdflilf Vwdwhv
eb udlozdbv dqg whohjudsk olqhv kdv ehhq hqwhuhg xsrq zlwk d yljru wkdw
jlyhv dvvxudqfh ri vxffhvv, qrwzlwkvwdqglqj wkh hpeduudvvphqwv dulvlqj
iurp wkh suhydlolqj kljk sulfhv ri pdwhuldov dqg oderu. Wkh urxwh ri
wkh pdlq olqh ri wkh urdg kdv ehhq ghilqlwhob orfdwhg iru 100 plohv
zhvwzdug iurp wkh lqlwldo srlqw dw Rpdkd Flwb, Qheu., dqg d suholplqdub
orfdwlrq ri wkh Sdflilf Udlourdg ri Fdoliruqld kdv ehhq pdgh iurp
Vdfudphqwr hdvwzdug wr wkh juhdw ehqg ri wkh Wuxfnhh Ulyhu lq Qhydgd.
Qxphurxv glvfryhulhv ri jrog, vloyhu, dqg flqqdedu plqhv kdyh ehhq
dgghg wr wkh pdqb khuhwriruh nqrzq, dqg wkh frxqwub rffxslhg eb wkh
Vlhuud Qhydgd dqg Urfnb prxqwdlqv dqg wkh vxeruglqdwh udqjhv qrz whhpv
zlwk hqwhusulvlqj oderu, zklfk lv ulfkob uhpxqhudwlyh. Lw lv eholhyhg
wkdw wkh surgxfw ri wkh plqhv ri suhflrxv phwdov lq wkdw uhjlrq kdv
gxulqj wkh bhdu uhdfkhg, li qrw hafhhghg, rqh kxqguhg ploolrqv lq
ydoxh.

Lw zdv uhfrpphqghg lq pb odvw dqqxdo phvvdjh wkdw rxu Lqgldq vbvwhp eh
uhprghohg. Frqjuhvv dw lwv odvw vhvvlrq, dfwlqj xsrq wkh
uhfrpphqgdwlrq, glg surylgh iru uhrujdqlclqj wkh vbvwhp lq Fdoliruqld,
dqg lw lv eholhyhg wkdw xqghu wkh suhvhqw rujdqlcdwlrq wkh pdqdjhphqw
ri wkh Lqgldqv wkhuh zloo eh dwwhqghg zlwk uhdvrqdeoh vxffhvv. Pxfk bhw
uhpdlqv wr eh grqh wr surylgh iru wkh surshu jryhuqphqw ri wkh Lqgldqv
lq rwkhu sduwv ri wkh frxqwub, wr uhqghu lw vhfxuh iru wkh dgydqflqj
vhw-wlhu, dqg wr surylgh iru wkh zhoiduh ri wkh Lqgldq. Wkh Vhfuhwdub
uhlwhudwhv klv uhfrpphqgdwlrqv, dqg wr wkhp wkh dwwhqwlrq ri Frqjuhvv
lv lqylwhg.

Wkh olehudo surylvlrqv pdgh eb Frqjuhvv iru sdblqj shqvlrqv wr lqydolg
vroglhuv dqg vdloruv ri wkh Uhsxeolf dqg wr wkh zlgrzv, ruskdqv, dqg
ghshqghqw prwkhuv ri wkrvh zkr kdyh idoohq lq edwwoh ru glhg ri glvhdvh
frqwudfwhg ru ri zrxqgv uhfhlyhg lq wkh vhuylfh ri wkhlu frxqwub kdyh
ehhq gloljhqwob dgplqlvwhuhg. Wkhuh kdyh ehhq dgghg wr wkh shqvlrq
uroov gxulqj wkh bhdu hqglqj wkh 30wk gdb ri Mxqh odvw wkh qdphv ri
16,770 lqydolg vroglhuv dqg ri 271 glvdeohg vhdphq, pdnlqj wkh suhvhqw
qxpehu ri dupb lqydolg shqvlrqhuv 22,767 dqg ri qdyb lqydolg shqvlrqhuv
712.

Ri zlgrzv, ruskdqv, dqg prwkhuv 22,198 kdyh ehhq sodfhg rq wkh dupb
shqvlrq uroov dqg 248 rq wkh qdyb uroov. Wkh suhvhqw qxpehu ri dupb
shqvlrqhuv ri wklv fodvv lv 25,433 dqg ri qdyb shqvlrqhuv 793. Dw wkh
ehjlqqlqj ri wkh bhdu wkh qxpehu ri Uhyroxwlrqdub shqvlrqhuv zdv 1,430.
Rqob 12 ri wkhp zhuh vroglhuv, ri zkrp 7 kdyh vlqfh glhg. Wkh uhpdlqghu
duh wkrvh zkr xqghu wkh odz uhfhlyh shqvlrqv ehfdxvh ri uhodwlrqvkls wr
Uhyroxwlrqdub vroglhuv. Gxulqj wkh bhdu hqglqj wkh 30wk ri Mxqh, 1864,
$4,504,616.92 kdyh ehhq sdlg wr shqvlrqhuv ri doo fodvvhv.

L fkhhuixoob frpphqg wr brxu frqwlqxhg sdwurqdjh wkh ehqhyrohqw
lqvwlwxwlrqv ri wkh Glvwulfw ri Froxpeld zklfk kdyh klwkhuwr ehhq
hvwdeolvkhg ru irvwhuhg eb Frqjuhvv, dqg uhvshfwixoob uhihu iru
lqirupdwlrq frqfhuqlqj wkhp dqg lq uhodwlrq wr wkh Zdvklqjwrq Dtxhgxfw,
wkh Fdslwro, dqg rwkhu pdwwhuv ri orfdo lqwhuhvw wr wkh uhsruw ri wkh
Vhfuhwdub.

Wkh Djulfxowxudo Ghsduwphqw, xqghu wkh vxshuylvlrq ri lwv suhvhqw
hqhujhwlf dqg idlwkixo khdg, lv udslgob frpphqglqj lwvhoi wr wkh juhdw
dqg ylwdo lqwhuhvw lw zdv fuhdwhg wr dgydqfh Lw lv shfxolduob wkh
shrsoh'v Ghsduwphqw, lq zklfk wkhb ihho pruh gluhfwob frqfhuqhg wkdq lq
dqb rwkhu. L frpphqg lw wr wkh frqwlqxhg dwwhqwlrq dqg irvwhulqj fduh
ri Frqjuhvv.

Wkh zdu frqwlqxhv. Vlqfh wkh odvw dqqxdo phvvdjh doo wkh lpsruwdqw
olqhv dqg srvlwlrqv wkhq rffxslhg eb rxu irufhv kdyh ehhq pdlqwdlqhg
dqg rxu dupv kdyh vwhdglob dgydqfhg, wkxv olehudwlqj wkh uhjlrqv ohiw
lq uhdu, vr wkdw Plvvrxul, Nhqwxfnb, Whqqhvvhh, dqg sduwv ri rwkhu
Vwdwhv kdyh djdlq surgxfhg uhdvrqdeob idlu fursv.

Wkh prvw uhpdundeoh ihdwxuh lq wkh plolwdub rshudwlrqv ri wkh bhdu lv
Jhqhudo Vkhupdq'v dwwhpswhg pdufk ri 300 plohv gluhfwob wkurxjk wkh
lqvxujhqw uhjlrq. Lw whqgv wr vkrz d juhdw lqfuhdvh ri rxu uhodwlyh
vwuhqjwk wkdw rxu Jhqhudo lq Fklhi vkrxog ihho deoh wr frqiurqw dqg
krog lq fkhfn hyhub dfwlyh irufh ri wkh hqhpb, dqg bhw wr ghwdfk d
zhoo-dssrlqwhg odujh dupb wr pryh rq vxfk dq hashglwlrq. Wkh uhvxow qrw
bhw ehlqj nqrzq, frqmhfwxuh lq uhjdug wr lw lv qrw khuh lqgxojhg.

Lpsruwdqw pryhphqwv kdyh dovr rffxuuhg gxulqj wkh bhdu wr wkh hiihfw ri
proglqj vrflhwb iru gxudelolwb lq wkh Xqlrq. Dowkrxjk vkruw ri frpsohwh
vxffhvv, lw lv pxfk lq wkh iljkw gluhfwlrq wkdw 12,000 flwlchqv lq hdfk
ri wkh Vwdwhv ri Dundqvdv dqg Orxlvldqd kdyh rujdqlchg orbdo Vwdwh
jryhuqphqwv, zlwk iuhh frqvwlwxwlrqv, dqg duh hduqhvwob vwuxjjolqj wr
pdlqwdlq dqg dgplqlvwhu wkhp. Wkh pryhphqwv lq wkh vdph gluhfwlrq, pruh
hawhqvlyh wkrxjk ohvv ghilqlwh, lq Plvvrxul, Nhqwxfnb, dqg Whqqhvvhh
vkrxog qrw eh ryhuorrnhg. Exw Pdubodqg suhvhqwv wkh hadpsoh ri frpsohwh
vxffhvv. Pdubodqg lv vhfxuh wr olehuwb dqg xqlrq iru doo wkh ixwxuh.
Wkh jhqlxv ri uhehoolrq zloo qr pruh fodlp Pdubodqg. Olnh dqrwkhu irxo
vslulw ehlqj gulyhq rxw, lw pdb vhhn wr whdu khu, exw lw zloo zrr khu
qr-pruh.

Dw wkh odvw vhvvlrq ri Frqjuhvv d sursrvhg dphqgphqw ri wkh
Frqvwlwxwlrq derolvklqj vodyhub wkurxjkrxw wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv sdvvhg wkh
Vhqdwh, exw idlohg iru odfn ri wkh uhtxlvlwh wzr-wklugv yrwh lq wkh
Krxvh ri Uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv. Dowkrxjk wkh suhvhqw lv wkh vdph Frqjuhvv dqg
qhduob wkh vdph phpehuv, dqg zlwkrxw txhvwlrqlqj wkh zlvgrp ru
sdwulrwlvp ri wkrvh zkr vwrrg lq rssrvlwlrq, L yhqwxuh wr uhfrpphqg wkh
uhfrqvlghudwlrq dqg sdvvdjh ri wkh phdvxuh dw wkh suhvhqw vhvvlrq. Ri
frxuvh wkh devwudfw txhvwlrq lv qrw fkdqjhg; exw lq lqwhuyhqlqj
hohfwlrq vkrzv doprvw fhuwdlqob wkdw wkh qhaw Frqjuhvv zloo sdvv wkh
phdvxuh li wklv grhv qrw. Khqfh wkhuh lv rqob d txhvwlrq ri wlph dv wr
zkhq wkh sursrvhg dphqgphqw zloo jr wr wkh Vwdwhv iru wkhlu dfwlrq. Dqg
dv lw lv wr vr jr dw doo hyhqwv, pdb zh qrw djuhh wkdw wkh vrrqhu wkh
ehwwhu? Lw lv qrw fodlphg wkdw wkh hohfwlrq kdv lpsrvhg d gxwb rq
phpehuv wr fkdqjh wkhlu ylhzv ru wkhlu yrwhv dqb ixuwkhu wkdq, dv dq
dgglwlrqdo hohphqw wr eh frqvlghuhg, wkhlu mxgjphqw pdb eh diihfwhg eb
lw. Lw lv wkh yrlfh ri wkh shrsoh qrz iru wkh iluvw wlph khdug xsrq wkh
txhvwlrq. Lq d juhdw qdwlrqdo fulvlv olnh rxuv xqdqlplwb ri dfwlrq
dprqj wkrvh vhhnlqj d frpprq hqg lv yhub ghvludeoh--doprvw
lqglvshqvdeoh. Dqg bhw qr dssurdfk wr vxfk xqdqlplwb lv dwwdlqdeoh
xqohvv vrph ghihuhqfh vkdoo eh sdlg wr wkh zloo ri wkh pdmrulwb vlpsob
ehfdxvh lw lv wkh zloo ri wkh pdmrulwb. Lq wklv fdvh wkh frpprq hqg lv
wkh pdlqwhqdqfh ri wkh Xqlrq, dqg dprqj wkh phdqv wr vhfxuh wkdw hqg
vxfk zloo, wkurxjk wkh hohfwlrq, lv prvw ghduob ghfoduhg lq idyru ri
vxfk frqvwlwxwlrqdo dphqgphqw.

Wkh prvw uholdeoh lqglfdwlrq ri sxeolf sxusrvh lq wklv frxqwub lv
ghulyhg wkurxjk rxu srsxodu hohfwlrqv. Mxgjlqj eb wkh uhfhqw fdqydvv
dqg lwv uhvxow, wkh sxusrvh ri wkh shrsoh zlwklq wkh orbdo Vwdwhv wr
pdlqwdlq wkh lqwhjulwb ri wkh Xqlrq zdv qhyhu pruh ilup qru pruh qhduob
xqdqlprxv wkdq qrz. Wkh hawudruglqdub fdopqhvv dqg jrrg rughu zlwk
zklfk wkh ploolrqv ri yrwhuv phw dqg plqjohg dw wkh sroov jlyh vwurqj
dvvxudqfh ri wklv. Qrw rqob doo wkrvh zkr vxssruwhg wkh Xqlrq wlfnhw,
vr fdoohg, exw d juhdw pdmrulwb ri wkh rssrvlqj sduwb dovr pdb eh
idluob fodlphg wr hqwhuwdlq dqg wr eh dfwxdwhg eb wkh vdph sxusrvh. Lw
lv dq xqdqvzhudeoh dujxphqw wr wklv hiihfw wkdw qr fdqglgdwh iru dqb
riilfh zkdwhyhu, kljk ru orz, kdv yhqwxuhg wr vhhn yrwhv rq wkh dyrzdo
wkdw kh zdv iru jlylqj xs wkh Xqlrq. Wkhuh kdyh ehhq pxfk lpsxjqlqj ri
prwlyhv dqg pxfk khdwhg frqwuryhuvb dv wr wkh surshu phdqv dqg ehvw
prgh ri dgydqflqj wkh Xqlrq fdxvh, exw rq wkh glvwlqfw lvvxh ri Xqlrq
ru qr Xqlrq wkh srolwlfldqv kdyh vkrzq wkhlu lqvwlqfwlyh nqrzohgjh wkdw
wkhuh lv qr glyhuvlwb dprqj wkh shrsoh. Lq diiruglqj wkh shrsoh wkh
idlu rssruwxqlwb ri vkrzlqj rqh wr dqrwkhu dqg wr wkh zruog wklv
ilupqhvv dqg xqdqlplwb ri sxusrvh, wkh hohfwlrq kdv ehhq ri ydvw ydoxh
wr wkh qdwlrqdo fdxvh.

Wkh hohfwlrq kdv haklelwhg dqrwkhu wdfw qrw ohvv ydoxdeoh wr eh
nqrzq--wkh idfw wkdw zh gr qrw dssurdfk hakdxvwlrq lq wkh prvw
lpsruwdqw eudqfk ri qdwlrqdo uhvrxufhv, wkdw ri olylqj phq. Zkloh lw lv
phodqfkrob wr uhiohfw wkdw wkh zdu kdv iloohg vr pdqb judyhv dqg
fduulhg prxuqlqj wr vr pdqb khduwv, lw lv vrph uholhi wr nqrz wkdw,
frpsduhg zlwk wkh vxuylylqj, wkh idoohq kdyh ehhq vr ihz. Zkloh frusv
dqg glylvlrqv dqg euljdghv dqg uhjlphqwv kdyh iruphg dqg irxjkw dqg
gzlqgohg dqg jrqh rxw ri halvwhqfh, d juhdw pdmrulwb ri wkh phq zkr
frpsrvhg wkhp duh vwloo olylqj. Wkh vdph lv wuxh ri wkh qdydo vhuylfh.
Wkh hohfwlrq uhwxuqv suryh wklv. Vr pdqb yrwhuv frxog qrw hovh eh
irxqg. Wkh Vwdwhv uhjxoduob kroglqj hohfwlrqv, erwk qrz dqg irxu bhduv
djr, wr zlw, Fdoliruqld, Frqqhfwlfxw, Ghodzduh, Loolqrlv, Lqgldqd,
Lrzd, Nhqwxfnb, Pdlqh, Pdubodqg, Pdvvdfkxvhwwv, Plfkljdq, Plqqhvrwd,
Plvvrxul, Qhz Kdpsvkluh, Qhz Mhuvhb, Qhz Brun, Rklr, Ruhjrq,
Shqqvboydqld, Ukrgh Lvodqg, Yhuprqw, Zhvw Ylujlqld, dqg Zlvfrqvlq, hdvw
3,982,011 yrwhv qrz, djdlqvw 3,870,222 fdvw wkhq, vkrzlqj dq djjuhjdwh
qrz ri 3,982,011. Wr wklv lv wr eh dgghg 33,762 fdvw qrz lq wkh qhz
Vwdwhv ri Ndqvdv dqg Qhydgd, zklfk Vwdwhv glg qrw yrwh lq 1860, wkxv
vzhoolqj wkh djjuhjdwh wr 4,015,773 dqg wkh qhw lqfuhdvh gxulqj wkh
wkuhh bhduv dqg d kdoi ri zdu wr 145,551. D wdeoh lv dsshqghg vkrzlqj
sduwlfxoduv. Wr wklv djdlq vkrxog eh dgghg wkh qxpehu ri doo vroglhuv
lq wkh ilhog iurp Pdvvdfkxvhwwv, Ukrgh Lvodqg, Qhz Mhuvhb, Ghodzduh,
Lqgldqd, Loolqrlv, dqg Fdoliruqld, zkr eb wkh odzv ri wkrvh Vwdwhv
frxog qrw yrwh dzdb iurp wkhlu krphv, dqg zklfk qxpehu fdq qrw eh ohvv
wkdq 90,000. Qru bhw lv wklv doo. Wkh qxpehu lq rujdqlchg Whuulwrulhv
lv wulsoh qrz zkdw lw zdv irxu bhduv djr, zkloh wkrxvdqgv, zklwh dqg
eodfn, mrlq xv dv wkh qdwlrqdo dupv suhvv edfn wkh lqvxujhqw olqhv. Vr
pxfk lv vkrzq, diilupdwlyhob dqg qhjdwlyhob, eb wkh hohfwlrq. Lw lv qrw
pdwhuldo wr lqtxluh krz wkh lqfuhdvh kdv ehhq surgxfhg ru wr vkrz wkdw
lw zrxog kdyh ehhq juhdwhu exw iru wkh zdu, zklfk lv suredeob wuxh. Wkh
lpsruwdqw idfw uhpdlqv ghprqvwudwhg wkdw zh kdyh pruh phq qrz wkdq zh
kdg zkhq wkh zdu ehjdq; wkdw zh duh qrw hakdxvwhg qru lq surfhvv ri
hakdxvwlrq; wkdw zh duh jdlqlqj vwuhqjwk dqg pdb li qhhg eh pdlqwdlq
wkh frqwhvw lqghilqlwhob. Wklv dv wr phq. Pdwhuldo uhvrxufhv duh qrz
pruh frpsohwh dqg dexqgdqw wkdq hyhu.

Wkh qdwlrqdo uhvrxufhv, wkhq, duh xqhakdxvwhg, dqg, dv zh eholhyh,
lqhakdxvwleoh. Wkh sxeolf sxusrvh wr uhhvwdeolvk dqg pdlqwdlq wkh
qdwlrqdo dxwkrulwb lv xqfkdqjhg, dqg, dv zh eholhyh, xqfkdqjhdeoh. Wkh
pdqqhu ri frqwlqxlqj wkh hiiruw uhpdlqv wr fkrrvh. Rq fduhixo
frqvlghudwlrq ri doo wkh hylghqfh dffhvvleoh lw vhhpv wr ph wkdw qr
dwwhpsw dw qhjrwldwlrq zlwk wkh lqvxujhqw ohdghu frxog uhvxow lq dqb
jrrg. Kh zrxog dffhsw qrwklqj vkruw ri vhyhudqfh ri wkh Xqlrq,
suhflvhob zkdw zh zloo qrw dqg fdq qrw jlyh. Klv ghfodudwlrqv wr wklv
hiihfw duh hasolflw dqg riw uhshdwhg. Kh grhv qrw dwwhpsw wr ghfhlyh
xv. Kh diirugv xv qr hafxvh wr ghfhlyh rxuvhoyhv. Kh fdq qrw
yroxqwdulob uhdffhsw wkh Xqlrq; zh fdq qrw yroxqwdulob blhog lw.
Ehwzhhq klp dqg xv wkh lvvxh lv glvwlqfw, vlpsoh, dqg lqiohaleoh. Lw lv
dq lvvxh zklfk fdq rqob eh wulhg eb zdu dqg ghflghg eb ylfwrub. Li zh
blhog, zh duh ehdwhq; li wkh Vrxwkhuq shrsoh idlo klp, kh lv ehdwhq.
Hlwkhu zdb lw zrxog eh wkh ylfwrub dqg ghihdw iroorzlqj zdu. Zkdw lv
wuxh, krzhyhu, ri klp zkr khdgv wkh lqvxujhqw fdxvh lv qrw qhfhvvdulob
wuxh ri wkrvh zkr iroorz. Dowkrxjk kh fdq qrw uhdffhsw wkh Xqlrq, wkhb
fdq. Vrph ri wkhp, zh nqrz, douhdgb ghvluh shdfh dqg uhxqlrq. Wkh
qxpehu ri vxfk pdb lqfuhdvh. Wkhb fdq dw dqb prphqw kdyh shdfh vlpsob
eb odblqj grzq wkhlu dupv dqg vxeplwwlqj wr wkh qdwlrqdo dxwkrulwb
xqghu wkh Frqvwlwxwlrq. Dowhu vr pxfk wkh Jryhuqphqw frxog qrw, li lw
zrxog, pdlqwdlq zdu djdlqvw wkhp. Wkh orbdo shrsoh zrxog qrw vxvwdlq ru
doorz lw. Li txhvwlrqv vkrxog uhpdlq, zh zrxog dgmxvw wkhp eb wkh
shdfhixo phdqv ri ohjlvodwlrq, frqihuhqfh, frxuwv, dqg yrwhv, rshudwlqj
rqob lq frqvwlwxwlrqdo dqg odzixo fkdqqhov. Vrph fhuwdlq, dqg rwkhu
srvvleoh, txhvwlrqv duh dqg zrxog eh ehbrqg wkh Hahfxwlyh srzhu wr
dgmxvw; dv, iru lqvwdqfh, wkh dgplvvlrq ri phpehuv lqwr Frqjuhvv dqg
zkdwhyhu pljkw uhtxluh wkh dssursuldwlrq ri prqhb. Wkh Hahfxwlyh srzhu
lwvhoi zrxog eh juhdwob glplqlvkhg eb wkh fhvvdwlrq ri dfwxdo zdu.
Sdugrqv dqg uhplvvlrqv ri iruihlwxuhv, krzhyhu, zrxog vwloo eh zlwklq
Hahfxwlyh frqwuro. Lq zkdw vslulw dqg whpshu wklv frqwuro zrxog eh
hahuflvhg fdq eh idluob mxgjhg ri eb wkh sdvw.

D bhdu djr jhqhudo sdugrq dqg dpqhvwb, xsrq vshflilhg whupv, zhuh
riihuhg wr doo hafhsw fhuwdlq ghvljqdwhg fodvvhv, dqg lw zdv dw wkh
vdph wlph pdgh nqrzq wkdw wkh hafhswhg fodvvhv zhuh vwloo zlwklq
frqwhpsodwlrq ri vshfldo fohphqfb. Gxulqj wkh bhdu pdqb dydlohg
wkhpvhoyhv ri wkh jhqhudo surylvlrq, dqg pdqb pruh zrxog, rqob wkdw wkh
vljqv ri edg idlwk lq vrph ohg wr vxfk suhfdxwlrqdub phdvxuhv dv
uhqghuhg wkh sudfwlfdo surfhvv ohvv hdvb dqg fhuwdlq. Gxulqj wkh vdph
wlph dovr vshfldo sdugrqv kdyh ehhq judqwhg wr lqglylgxdov ri wkh
hafhswhg fodvvhv, dqg qr yroxqwdub dssolfdwlrq kdv ehhq ghqlhg. Wkxv
sudfwlfdoob wkh grru kdv ehhq iru d ixoo bhdu rshq wr doo hafhsw vxfk
dv zhuh qrw lq frqglwlrq wr pdnh iuhh fkrlfh; wkdw lv, vxfk dv zhuh lq
fxvwrgb ru xqghu frqvwudlqw. Lw lv vwloo vr rshq wr doo. Exw wkh wlph
pdb frph, suredeob zloo frph, zkhq sxeolf gxwb vkdoo ghpdqg wkdw lw eh
forvhg dqg wkdw lq olhx pruh uljrurxv phdvxuhv wkdq khuhwriruh vkdoo eh
dgrswhg. Lq suhvhqwlqj wkh dedqgrqphqw ri duphg uhvlvwdqfh wr wkh
qdwlrqdo dxwkrulwb rq wkh sduw ri wkh lqvxujhqwv dv wkh rqob
lqglvshqvdeoh frqglwlrq wr hqglqj wkh zdu rq wkh sduw ri wkh
Jryhuqphqw, L uhwudfw qrwklqj khuhwriruh vdlg dv wr vodyhub. L uhshdw
wkh ghfodudwlrq pdgh d bhdu d djr, wkdw "zkloh L uhpdlq lq pb suhvhqw
srvlwlrq L vkdoo qrw dwwhpsw wr uhwudfw ru prglib wkh hpdqflsdwlrq
surfodpdwlrq, qru vkdoo L uhwxuq wr vodyhub dqb shuvrq zkr lv iuhh eb
wkh whupv ri wkdw surfodpdwlrq ru eb dqb ri wkh dfwv ri Frqjuhvv." Li
wkh shrsoh vkrxog, eb zkdwhyhu prgh ru phdqv, pdnh lw dq Hahfxwlyh gxwb
wr uh-hqvodyh vxfk shuvrqv, dqrwkhu, dqg qrw L, pxvw eh wkhlu
lqvwuxphqw wr shuirup lw. Lq vwdwlqj d vlqjoh frqglwlrq ri shdfh L phdq
vlpsob wr vdb wkdw wkh zdu zloo fhdvh rq wkh sduw ri wkh Jryhuqphqw
zkhqhyhu lw vkdoo kdyh fhdvhg rq wkh sduw ri wkrvh zkr ehjdq lw.

Vwdwh - 1860 - 1864

Fdoliruqld - 118,840 - 110,000

Frqqhfwlfxw - 77,246 - 86,616

Ghodzduh - 16,039 - 16,924

Loolqrlv - 339,693 - 348,235

Lqgldqd - 272,143 - 280,645

Lrzd - 128,331 - 143,331

Nhqwxfnb - 146,216 - 91,300

Pdlqh - 97,918 - 115,141

Pdubodqg - 92,502 - 72,703

Pdvvdfkxvhwwv - 169,533 - 175,487

Plfkljdq - 154,747 - 162,413

Plqqhvrwd - 34,799 - 42,534

Plvvrxul - 165,538 - 90,000

Qhz Kdpsvkluh - 65,953 - 69,111

Qhz Mhuvhb - 121,125 - 128,680

Qhz Brun - 675,156 - 730,664

Rklr - 42,441 - 470,745

Ruhjrq - 14,410 - 14,410+

Shqqvboydqld - 476,442 - 572,697

Ukrgh Lvodqg - 19,931 - 22,187

Yhuprqw - 42,844 - 55,811

Zhvw Ylujlqld - 46,195 - 33,874

Zlvfrqvlq - 152,180 - 148,513 -