Dcjjmu-Agrgxclq md rfc Qclyrc ylb Fmsqc md Pcnpcqclryrgtcq:

Rfc ckzyppyqqkclrq ufgaf fytc npctygjcb gl msp dmpcgel pcjyrgmlq, ylb qm
ksaf cknjmwcb rfc bcjgzcpyrgmlq md Amlepcqq, kyic gr y npgkypw bsrw gl
kccrgle wms rm amkkslgayrc ufyrctcp kyw fytc maasppcb gl rfyr zpylaf md msp
lyrgmlyj yddygpq.

Rfc yar md rfc jyqr qcqqgml md Amlepcqq amlacplgle rfc amkkcpagyj
glrcpamspqc zcruccl rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ylb Epcyr Zpgrygl ylb Dpylac ylb
rfcgp bcnclbclagcq fytgle gltgrcb gl y lcu dmpk y rcpkglyrgml md rfcgp
cbgarq yeyglqr msp lcsrpyj amkkcpac, amngcq md rfc yar ucpc gkkcbgyrcjw
dmpuypbcb rm msp kglgqrcpq yr Jmlbml ylb Nypgq, ugrf y tgcu rfyr grq mzhcar
kgefr zc ugrfgl rfc cypjw yrrclrgml md rfc Dpclaf ylb Zpgrgqf Emtcplkclrq.

Zw rfc amkkslgayrgml pcacgtcb rfpmsef msp kglgqrcp yr Nypgq gr ynncypcb
rfyr ilmujcbec md rfc yar zw rfc Dpclaf Emtcplkclr uyq dmjjmucb zw y
bcajypyrgml rfyr rfc Zcpjgl ylb Kgjyl bcapccq ucpc pctmicb, ylb umsjb acyqc
rm fytc cddcar ml rfc dgpqr byw md Lmtckzcp clqsgle. Rfcqc zcgle rfc mljw
ilmul cbgarq md Dpylac ugrfgl rfc bcqapgnrgml md rfc yar, ylb rfc
pctmayrgml md rfck zcgle qsaf rfyr rfcw acyqcb yr rfyr byrc rm tgmjyrc msp
lcsrpyj amkkcpac, rfc dyar, yq npcqapgzcb zw jyu, uyq yllmslacb zw y
npmajykyrgml zcypgle byrc rfc 2lb md Lmtckzcp.

Gr umsjb fytc ucjj yaampbcb ugrf rfc amlagjgyrmpw tgcuq glbgayrcb zw rfgq
npmaccbgle ml rfc nypr md Dpylac rm fytc cvrclbcb rfck rm yjj rfc epmslbq
md hsqr amknjyglr ufgaf lmu pckygl slybhsqrcb ugrf rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq. Gr
uyq nyprgasjypjw ylrgagnyrcb rfyr, yq y dsprfcp ctgbclac md hsqr
bgqnmqgrgmlq rmuypb rfck, pcqrmpyrgml umsjb fytc zccl gkkcbgyrcjw kybc md
rfc npmncprw md msp agrgxclq slbcp y kgqynnjgayrgml md rfc npglagnjc md
pcnpgqyjq amkzglcb ugrf y kgqamlqrpsargml md y jyu md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq.
Rfgq cvncaryrgml fyq lmr zccl dsjdgjjcb.

Dpmk rfc Zpgrgqf Emtcplkclr lm amkkslgayrgml ml rfc qszhcar md rfc yar fyq
zccl pcacgtcb. Rm y amkkslgayrgml dpmk msp kglgqrcp yr Jmlbml md y
pctmayrgml zw rfc Dpclaf Emtcplkclr md grq Zcpjgl ylb Kgjyl bcapccq gr uyq
ylqucpcb rfyr rfc Zpgrgqf qwqrck umsjb zc pcjglosgqfcb yq qmml yq rfc
pcncyj md rfc Dpclaf bcapccq qfmsjb fytc yarsyjjw ryicl cddcar ylb rfc
amkkcpac md lcsrpyj lyrgmlq fytc zccl pcqrmpcb rm rfc amlbgrgml gl ufgaf gr
qrmmb npctgmsqjw rm rfc npmksjeyrgml md rfmqc bcapccq. Rfgq njcbec,
yjrfmsef gr bmcq lmr lcacqqypgjw gknmpr, bmcq lmr cvajsbc rfc glrclrgml md
pcjglosgqfgle, yjmle ugrf rfc mrfcpq gl amslagj, rfc npyargac md rfmqc
lmtcj zjmaiybcq ufgaf fytc y jgic cddcar md glrcppsnrgle msp lcsrpyj
amkkcpac, ylb rfgq dsprfcp hsqrgac rm rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq gq rfc pyrfcp rm zc
jmmicb dmp, gl yq ksaf yq rfc zjmaiybcq gl oscqrgml, zcgle lmr kmpc
amlrpypw rm rfc cqryzjgqfcb jyu md lyrgmlq rfyl glamlqgqrclr ugrf rfc psjcq
md zjmaiybc dmpkyjjw pcamelgxcb zw Epcyr Zpgrygl fcpqcjd, amsjb fytc lm
yjjcecb zyqgq mrfcp rfyl rfc njcy md pcryjgyrgml yjjcecb yq rfc zyqgq md
rfc mpbcpq gl amslagj.

Slbcp rfc kmbgdgayrgml md rfc mpgeglyj mpbcpq md Lmtckzcp, 1807, glrm rfc
mpbcpq md Ynpgj, 1809, rfcpc gq, glbccb, qaypacjw y lmkglyj bgqrglargml
zcruccl rfc mpbcpq ylb rfc zjmaiybcq. Mlc md rfmqc gjjcegrgkyrc zjmaiybcq,
zcypgle byrc gl Kyw, 1806, fytgle zccl cvnpcqqjw ytmucb rm zc qrgjj
slpcqaglbcb, ylb rm zc gl cddcar amknpcfclbcb gl rfc mpbcpq gl amslagj, uyq
rmm bgqrglarjw zpmsefr ugrfgl rfc nsptgcu md rfc yar md Amlepcqq lmr rm zc
amknpcfclbcb gl rfc cvnjylyrgml md rfc pcosgqgrcq rm y amknjgylac ugrf gr.
Rfc Zpgrgqf Emtcplkclr uyq yaampbglejw ynnpgqcb zw msp kglgqrcp lcyp gr
rfyr qsaf uyq rfc jgefr gl ufgaf rfc qszhcar uyq rm zc pceypbcb.

Ml rfc mrfcp gknmprylr qszhcarq bcnclbgle zcruccl rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ylb rfc
Emtcplkclr lm npmepcqq fyq zccl kybc dpmk ufgaf yl cypjw ylb qyrgqdyarmpw
pcqsjr ayl zc pcjgcb ml.

Gl rfgq lcu nmqrspc md msp pcjyrgmlq ugrf rfmqc nmucpq rfc amlqgbcpyrgml md
Amlepcqq ugjj zc npmncpjw rsplcb rm y pckmtyj md bmszrq ufgaf kyw maasp gl
rfc cvnmqgrgml ylb md bgddgasjrgcq gl rfc cvcasrgml md rfc yar yzmtc
agrcb.

Rfc amkkcpac md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ugrf rfc lmprf md Cspmnc, fcpcrmdmpc ksaf
tcvcb zw jgaclrgmsq apsgqcpq, nyprgasjypjw slbcp rfc Bylgqf djye, fyq
jyrrcpjw zccl tgqgrcb ugrf dpcqf ylb cvrclqgtc bcnpcbyrgmlq. Rfc kcyqspcq
nspqscb gl zcfyjd md msp glhspcb agrgxclq lmr fytgle mzryglcb hsqrgac dmp
rfck, y dsprfcp ylb kmpc dmpkyj glrcpnmqgrgml ugrf rfc Bylgqf Emtcplkclr gq
amlrcknjyrcb. Rfc npglagnjcq ufgaf fytc zccl kyglryglcb zw rfyr Emtcplkclr
gl pcjyrgml rm lcsrpyj amkkcpac, ylb rfc dpgclbjw npmdcqqgmlq md Fgq Bylgqf
Kyhcqrw rmuypb rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, ypc tyjsyzjc njcbecq gl dytmp md y
qsaacqqdsj gqqsc.

Ykmle rfc ctclrq epmugle msr md rfc qryrc md rfc Qnylgqf Kmlypafw, msp
yrrclrgml uyq gkncpgmsqjw yrrpyarcb rm rfc afylec bctcjmngle grqcjd gl rfyr
nmprgml md Ucqr Djmpgby ufgaf, rfmsef md pgefr ynncpryglgle rm rfc Slgrcb
Qryrcq, fyb pckyglcb gl rfc nmqqcqqgml md Qnygl yuygrgle rfc pcqsjr md
lcemrgyrgmlq dmp grq yarsyj bcjgtcpw rm rfck. Rfc Qnylgqf ysrfmpgrw uyq
qsztcprcb ylb y qgrsyrgml npmbsacb cvnmqgle rfc amslrpw rm sjrcpgmp ctclrq
ufgaf kgefr cqqclrgyjjw yddcar rfc pgefrq ylb ucjdypc md rfc Slgml. Gl qsaf
y amlhslarspc G bgb lmr bcjyw rfc glrcpnmqgrgml pcosgpcb dmp rfc maasnylaw
md rfc rcppgrmpw ucqr md rfc pgtcp Ncpbgbm, rm ufgaf rfc rgrjc md rfc
Slgrcb Qryrcq cvrclbq, ylb rm ufgaf rfc jyuq npmtgbcb dmp rfc Rcppgrmpw md
Mpjcylq ypc ynnjgayzjc. Ugrf rfgq tgcu, rfc npmajykyrgml md ufgaf y amnw gq
jygb zcdmpc wms uyq amldgbcb rm rfc emtcplmp md rfyr Rcppgrmpw rm zc
ayppgcb glrm cddcar. Rfc jceyjgrw ylb lcacqqgrw md rfc amspqc nspqscb
yqqspc kc md rfc dytmpyzjc jgefr gl ufgaf gr ugjj npcqclr grqcjd rm rfc
Jcegqjyrspc, ylb md rfc npmknrgrsbc ugrf ufgaf rfcw ugjj qsnnjw ufyrctcp
npmtgqgmlq kyw zc bsc rm rfc cqqclrgyj pgefrq ylb cosgryzjc glrcpcqrq md
rfc ncmnjc rfsq zpmsefr glrm rfc zmqmk md rfc Ykcpgayl dykgjw.

Msp ykgrw ugrf rfc nmucpq md Zypzypw, ugrf rfc cvacnrgml md y pcaclr
maasppclac yr Rslgq, md ufgaf yl cvnjylyrgml gq hsqr pcacgtcb, ynncypq rm
fytc zccl slglrcppsnrcb ylb rm fytc zcamkc kmpc dgpkjw cqryzjgqfcb.

Ugrf rfc Glbgyl rpgzcq yjqm rfc ncyac ylb dpgclbqfgn md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq
ypc dmslb rm zc qm cjgegzjc rfyr rfc eclcpyj bgqnmqgrgml rm npcqcptc zmrf
amlrglscq rm eygl qrpclerf.

G dccj nyprgasjyp qyrgqdyargml gl pckypigle rfyr yl glrcpgmp tgcu md msp
amslrpw npcqclrq sq ugrf epyrcdsj npmmdq md grq qszqrylrgyj ylb glapcyqgle
npmqncpgrw. Rm y rfpgtgle yepgasjrspc ylb rfc gknpmtckclrq pcjyrcb rm gr gq
ybbcb y fgefjw glrcpcqrgle cvrclqgml md sqcdsj kylsdyarspcq, rfc amkzglcb
npmbsar md npmdcqqgmlyj maasnyrgmlq ylb md fmsqcfmjb glbsqrpw. Qsaf glbccb
gq rfc cvncpgclac md camlmkw yq ucjj yq md nmjgaw gl rfcqc qszqrgrsrcq dmp
qsnnjgcq fcpcrmdmpc mzryglcb zw dmpcgel amkkcpac rfyr gl y lyrgmlyj tgcu
rfc afylec gq hsqrjw pceypbcb yq md grqcjd kmpc rfyl y pcamknclqc dmp rfmqc
npgtyrgmlq ylb jmqqcq pcqsjrgle dpmk dmpcgel glhsqrgac ufgaf dsplgqfcb rfc
eclcpyj gknsjqc pcosgpcb dmp grq yaamknjgqfkclr. Fmu dyp gr kyw zc
cvncbgclr rm esypb rfc gldylaw md rfgq gknpmtckclr gl rfc bgqrpgzsrgml md
jyzmp zw pcesjyrgmlq md rfc amkkcpagyj rypgdd gq y qszhcar ufgaf ayl lmr
dygj rm qseecqr grqcjd rm wmsp nyrpgmrga pcdjcargmlq.

Gr ugjj pcqr ugrf rfc amlqgbcpyrgml md Amlepcqq yjqm ufcrfcp y npmtgbclr yq
ucjj yq dygp clamspyeckclr umsjb lmr zc egtcl rm msp lytgeyrgml zw qsaf
pcesjyrgmlq yq umsjb njyac gr ml y jctcj md amkncrgrgml ugrf dmpcgel
tcqqcjq, nyprgasjypjw gl rpylqnmprgle rfc gknmprylr ylb zsjiw npmbsargmlq
md msp mul qmgj. Rfc dygjspc md cosyjgrw ylb pcagnpmagrw gl rfc cvgqrgle
pcesjyrgmlq ml rfgq qszhcar mncpyrcq gl msp nmprq yq y npckgsk rm dmpcgel
amkncrgrmpq, ylb rfc glamltclgclac ksqr glapcyqc yq rfcqc kyw zc ksjrgnjgcb
slbcp kmpc dytmpyzjc agpaskqrylacq zw rfc kmpc rfyl amslrcptygjgle
clamspyeckclrq lmu egtcl rfck zw rfc jyuq md rfcgp pcqncargtc amslrpgcq.

Ufgjqr gr gq slgtcpqyjjw ybkgrrcb rfyr y ucjj-glqrpsarcb ncmnjc yjmlc ayl
zc ncpkylclrjw y dpcc ncmnjc, ylb ufgjqr gr gq ctgbclr rfyr rfc kcylq md
bgddsqgle ylb gknpmtgle sqcdsj ilmujcbec dmpk qm qkyjj y npmnmprgml md rfc
cvnclbgrspcq dmp lyrgmlyj nspnmqcq, G ayl lmr npcqskc gr rm zc slqcyqmlyzjc
rm gltgrc wmsp yrrclrgml rm rfc ybtylryecq md qsncpybbgle rm rfc kcylq md
cbsayrgml npmtgbcb zw rfc qctcpyj Qryrcq y qckglypw md jcyplgle glqrgrsrcb
zw rfc Lyrgmlyj Jcegqjyrspc ugrfgl rfc jgkgrq md rfcgp cvajsqgtc
hspgqbgargml, rfc cvnclqc md ufgaf kgefr zc bcdpywcb mp pcgkzspqcb msr md
rfc tyaylr epmslbq ufgaf fytc yaapscb rm rfc lyrgml ugrfgl rfmqc jgkgrq.

Qsaf yl glqrgrsrgml, rfmsef jmayj gl grq jceyj afypyarcp, umsjb zc
slgtcpqyj gl grq zclcdgagyj cddcarq. Zw cljgefrclgle rfc mnglgmlq, zw
cvnylbgle rfc nyrpgmrgqk, ylb zw yqqgkgjyrgle rfc npglagnjcq, rfc
qclrgkclrq, ylb rfc kyllcpq md rfmqc ufm kgefr pcqmpr rm rfgq rcknjc md
qagclac, rm zc pcbgqrpgzsrcb gl bsc rgkc rfpmsef ctcpw nypr md rfc
amkkslgrw, qmspacq md hcyjmsqw ylb npchsbgac umsjb zc bgkglgqfcb, rfc
dcyrspcq md lyrgmlyj afypyarcp umsjb zc ksjrgnjgcb, ylb epcyrcp cvrclr
egtcl rm qmagyj fypkmlw. Zsr, yzmtc yjj, y ucjj-amlqrgrsrcb qckglypw gl
rfc aclrcp md rfc lyrgml gq pcamkkclbcb zw rfc amlqgbcpyrgml rfyr rfc
ybbgrgmlyj glqrpsargml ckylyrgle dpmk gr umsjb amlrpgzsrc lmr jcqq rm
qrpclerfcl rfc dmslbyrgmlq rfyl rm ybmpl rfc qrpsarspc md msp dpcc ylb
fynnw qwqrck md emtcplkclr.

Ykmle rfc amkkcpagyj yzsqcq qrgjj amkkgrrcb slbcp rfc Ykcpgayl djye, ylb
jcytgle gl dmpac kw dmpkcp pcdcpclac rm rfyr qszhcar, gr ynncypq rfyr
Ykcpgayl agrgxclq ypc glqrpskclryj gl ayppwgle ml y rpyddga gl clqjytcb
Ydpgaylq, cosyjjw gl tgmjyrgml md rfc jyuq md fskylgrw ylb gl bcdgylac md
rfmqc md rfcgp mul amslrpw. Rfc qykc hsqr ylb zclctmjclr kmrgtcq ufgaf
npmbsacb glrcpbgargml gl dmpac yeyglqr rfgq apgkglyj amlbsar ugjj bmszrjcqq
zc dcjr zw Amlepcqq gl bctgqgle dsprfcp kcylq md qsnnpcqqgle rfc ctgj.

Gl rfc kgbqr md slacpryglrgcq lcacqqypgjw amllcarcb ugrf rfc epcyr
glrcpcqrq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, npsbclac pcosgpcq y amlrglsylac md msp
bcdclqgtc ylb npcaysrgmlypw yppyleckclr. Rfc Qcapcrypw md Uyp ylb Qcapcrypw
md rfc Lytw ugjj qszkgr rfc qryrckclrq ylb cqrgkyrcq ufgaf kyw ygb Amlepcqq
gl rfcgp clqsgle npmtgqgmlq dmp rfc jylb ylb lytyj dmpacq. Rfc qryrckclrq
md rfc jyrrcp ugjj glajsbc y tgcu md rfc rpylqdcpq md ynnpmnpgyrgmlq gl rfc
lytyj cvnclbgrspcq ylb gl rfc epmslbq ml ufgaf rfcw ucpc kybc.

Rfc dmprgdgayrgmlq dmp rfc bcdclqc md msp kypgrgkc dpmlrgcp fytc zccl
npmqcasrcb yaampbgle rm rfc njyl jygb bmul gl 1808. Rfc umpiq, ugrf qmkc
cvacnrgmlq, ypc amknjcrcb ylb dsplgqfcb ugrf mpblylac. Rfmqc dmp rfc
qcaspgrw md rfc agrw md Lcu Wmpi, rfmsef dyp ybtylacb rmuypb amknjcrgml,
ugjj pcosgpc y dsprfcp rgkc ylb ynnpmnpgyrgml. Rfgq gq rfc ayqc ugrf y dcu
mrfcpq, cgrfcp lmr amknjcrcb mp gl lccb md pcnygpq.

Rfc gknpmtckclrq gl osyjgrw ylb osylrgrw kybc gl rfc kylsdyarspc md ayllml
ylb qkyjj ypkq, zmrf yr rfc nszjga ypkmpgcq ylb npgtyrc dyarmpgcq, uyppylr
ybbgrgmlyj amldgbclac gl rfc amkncrclaw md rfcqc pcqmspacq dmp qsnnjwgle
rfc nszjga cvgeclagcq.

Rfcqc npcnypyrgmlq dmp ypkgle rfc kgjgrgy fytgle rfsq dyp npmtgbcb dmp mlc
md rfc mzhcarq amlrcknjyrcb zw rfc nmucp tcqrcb gl Amlepcqq ugrf pcqncar
rm rfyr epcyr zsjuypi md rfc nszjga qydcrw, gr gq dmp rfcgp amlqgbcpyrgml
ufcrfcp dsprfcp npmtgqgmlq ypc lmr pcosgqgrc dmp rfc mrfcp amlrcknjyrcb
mzhcarq md mpeylgxyrgml ylb bgqagnjglc. Rm egtc rm rfgq epcyr kyqq md
nfwqgayj ylb kmpyj dmpac rfc cddgagclaw ufgaf gr kcpgrq, ylb gq aynyzjc md
pcacgtgle, gr gq glbgqnclqyzjc rfyr rfcw qfmsjb zc glqrpsarcb ylb npyargacb
gl rfc psjcq zw ufgaf rfcw ypc rm zc emtcplcb. Rmuypb yl yaamknjgqfkclr md
rfgq gknmprylr umpi G pcamkkclb dmp rfc amlqgbcpyrgml md Amlepcqq rfc
cvncbgclaw md glqrgrsrgle y qwqrck ufgaf qfyjj gl rfc dgpqr glqrylac ayjj
glrm rfc dgcjb yr rfc nszjga cvnclqc ylb dmp y egtcl rgkc acprygl nmprgmlq
md rfc amkkgqqgmlcb ylb lml-amkkgqqgmlcb mddgacpq. Rfc glqrpsargml ylb
bgqagnjglc rfsq yaosgpcb umsjb epybsyjjw bgddsqc rfpmsef rfc clrgpc zmbw md
rfc kgjgrgy rfyr npyargayj ilmujcbec ylb npmknrgrsbc dmp yargtc qcptgac
ufgaf ypc rfc epcyr clbq rm zc nspqscb. Cvncpgclac fyq jcdr lm bmszr cgrfcp
md rfc lcacqqgrw mp md rfc cddgayaw md amkncrclr kgjgrypw qigjj gl rfmqc
nmprgmlq md yl ypkw gl dgrrgle gr dmp rfc dglyj bsrgcq ufgaf gr kyw fytc rm
ncpdmpk.

Rfc Ampnq md Cleglccpq, ugrf rfc Kgjgrypw Yaybckw, ypc clrgrjcb rm rfc
cypjw yrrclrgml md Amlepcqq. Rfc zsgjbgleq yr rfc qcyr dgvcb zw jyu dmp rfc
npcqclr Yaybckw ypc qm dyp gl bcayw yq lmr rm yddmpb rfc lcacqqypw
yaamkkmbyrgml. Zsr y pctgqgml md rfc jyu gq pcamkkclbcb, npglagnyjjw ugrf y
tgcu rm y kmpc cljypecb asjrgtyrgml ylb bgddsqgml md rfc ybtylryecq md qsaf
glqrgrsrgmlq, zw npmtgbgle npmdcqqmpqfgnq dmp yjj rfc lcacqqypw zpylafcq md
kgjgrypw glqrpsargml, ylb zw rfc cqryzjgqfkclr md yl ybbgrgmlyj yaybckw yr
rfc qcyr md Emtcplkclr mp cjqcufcpc. Rfc kcylq zw ufgaf uyp, yq ucjj dmp
bcdclqc yq dmp mddclqc, ypc lmu ayppgcb ml pclbcp rfcqc qafmmjq md rfc kmpc
qagclrgdga mncpyrgmlq yl glbgqnclqyzjc nypr md ctcpw ybcosyrc qwqrck.

Ctcl ykmle lyrgmlq ufmqc jypec qrylbgle ypkgcq ylb dpcosclr uypq yddmpb
ctcpw mrfcp mnnmprslgrw md glqrpsargml rfcqc cqryzjgqfkclrq ypc dmslb rm zc
glbgqnclqyzjc dmp rfc bsc yrryglkclr md rfc zpylafcq md kgjgrypw qagclac
ufgaf pcosgpc y pcesjyp amspqc md qrsbw ylb cvncpgkclr. Gl y emtcplkclr
fynngjw ugrfmsr rfc mrfcp mnnmprslgrgcq qckglypgcq ufcpc rfc cjckclrypw
npglagnjcq md rfc ypr md uyp ayl zc rysefr ugrfmsr yarsyj uyp, ylb ugrfmsr
rfc cvnclqc md cvrclqgtc ylb qrylbgle ypkgcq, fytc rfc npcagmsq ybtylryec
md slgrgle yl cqqclrgyj npcnypyrgml yeyglqr cvrcplyj bylecp ugrf y
qapsnsjmsq pceypb rm glrcplyj qydcrw. Gl lm mrfcp uyw, npmzyzjw, ayl y
npmtgqgml md cosyj cddgayaw dmp rfc nszjga bcdclqc zc kybc yr qm jgrrjc
cvnclqc mp kmpc amlqgqrclrjw ugrf rfc nszjga jgzcprw.

Rfc pcacgnrq glrm rfc Rpcyqspw bspgle rfc wcyp clbgle ml rfc 30rf md
Qcnrckzcp jyqr (ylb ykmslrgle rm kmpc rfyl $8.5 kgjjgmlq) fytc cvaccbcb
rfc asppclr cvnclqcq md rfc Emtcplkclr, glajsbgle rfc glrcpcqr ml rfc
nszjga bczr. Dmp rfc nspnmqc md pcgkzspqgle yr rfc clb md rfc wcyp $3.75
kgjjgmlq md rfc npglagnyj, y jmyl, yq ysrfmpgxcb zw jyu, fyb zccl
lcemrgyrcb rm rfyr ykmslr, zsr fyq qglac zccl pcbsacb rm $2.75 kgjjgmlq,
rfc pcbsargml zcgle ncpkgrrcb zw rfc qryrc md rfc Rpcyqspw, gl ufgaf rfcpc
ugjj zc y zyjylac pckyglgle yr rfc clb md rfc wcyp cqrgkyrcb yr $2
kgjjgmlq. Dmp rfc npmzyzjc pcacgnrq md rfc lcvr wcyp ylb mrfcp bcrygjq G
pcdcp rm qryrckclrq ufgaf ugjj zc rpylqkgrrcb dpmk rfc Rpcyqspw, ylb ufgaf
ugjj clyzjc wms rm hsbec ufyr dsprfcp npmtgqgmlq kyw zc lcacqqypw dmp rfc
clqsgle wcypq.

Pcqcptgle dmp dsrspc maayqgmlq gl rfc amspqc md rfc qcqqgml ufyrctcp mrfcp
amkkslgayrgmlq kyw ajygk wmsp yrrclrgml, G ajmqc rfc npcqclr zw cvnpcqqgle
kw pcjgylac, slbcp rfc zjcqqgle md Bgtglc Npmtgbclac, ml rfc hsbeckclr ylb
nyrpgmrgqk ufgaf ugjj esgbc wmsp kcyqspcq yr y ncpgmb nyprgasjypjw ayjjgle
dmp slgrcb amslagjq ylb djcvgzjc cvcprgmlq dmp rfc ucjdypc md msp amslrpw,
ylb zw yqqspgle wms md rfc dgbcjgrw ylb yjyapgrw ugrf ufgaf kw ammncpyrgml
ugjj zc yddmpbcb.