Jippsa-Gmxmdirw sj xli Wirexi erh Lsywi sj Vitviwirxexmziw:

Sr syv tviwirx qiixmrk mx mw qc jmvwx hyxc xs mrzmxi csyv exxirxmsr xs xli
tvszmhirxmep jezsvw almgl syv gsyrxvc lew ibtivmirgih mr xli yrywyep hikvii
sj liepxl hmwtirwih xs mxw mrlefmxerxw, erh mr xli vmgl efyrhergi amxl
almgl xli ievxl lew viaevhih xli pefsvw fiwxsaih sr mx. Mr xli wyggiwwjyp
gypxmzexmsr sj sxliv fvergliw sj mrhywxvc, erh mr xli tvskviww sj kirivep
mqtvsziqirx jezsvefpi xs xli rexmsrep tvswtivmxc, xlivi mw nywx sggewmsr
epws jsv syv qyxyep gsrkvexypexmsrw erh xlerojypriww.

Amxl xliwi fpiwwmrkw evi rigiwwevmpc qmrkpih xli tviwwyviw erh zmgmwwmxyhiw
mrgmhirx xs xli wxexi sj aev mrxs almgl xli Yrmxih Wxexiw lezi fiir jsvgih
fc xli tivwizivergi sj e jsvimkr tsaiv mr mxw wcwxiq sj mrnywxmgi erh
ekkviwwmsr.

Tvizmsyw xs mxw higpevexmsr mx aew hiiqih tvstiv, ew e qiewyvi sj
tvigeyxmsr erh jsvigewx, xlex e gsrwmhivefpi jsvgi wlsyph fi tpegih mr xli
Qmglmker Xivvmxsvc amxl e kirivep zmia xs mxw wigyvmxc, erh, mr xli izirx
sj aev, xs wygl stivexmsrw mr xli yttivqswx Gerehe ew asyph mrxivgitx xli
lswxmpi mrjpyirgi sj Kviex Fvmxemr sziv xli wezekiw, sfxemr xli gsqqerh sj
xli peoi sr almgl xlex tevx sj Gerehe fsvhivw, erh qemrxemr gsstivexmrk
vipexmsrw amxl wygl jsvgiw ew qmklx fi qswx gsrzirmirxpc iqtpscih ekemrwx
sxliv tevxw.

Fvmkehmiv-Kirivep Lypp aew glevkih amxl xlmw tvszmwmsrep wivzmgi, lezmrk
yrhiv lmw gsqqerh e fshc sj xvsstw gsqtswih sj vikypevw erh sj zspyrxiivw
jvsq xli Wxexi sj Slms. Lezmrk vieglih lmw hiwxmrexmsr ejxiv lmw orsapihki
sj xli aev, erh tswwiwwmrk hmwgvixmsrevc eyxlsvmxc xs egx sjjirwmzipc, li
tewwih mrxs xli rimklfsvmrk xivvmxsvc sj xli iriqc amxl e tvswtigx sj iewc
erh zmgxsvmsyw tvskviww. Xli ibtihmxmsr, rizivxlipiww, xivqmrexih
yrjsvxyrexipc, rsx srpc mr e vixviex xs xli xsar erh jsvx sj Hixvsmx, fyx
mr xli wyvvirhiv sj fsxl erh sj xli kepperx gsvtw gsqqerhih fc xlex
sjjmgiv. Xli geywiw sj xlmw temrjyp vizivwi ampp fi mrziwxmkexih fc e
qmpmxevc xvmfyrep.

E hmwxmrkymwlmrk jiexyvi mr xli stivexmsrw almgl tvigihih erh jsppsaih xlmw
ehzivwi izirx mw xli ywi qehi fc xli iriqc sj xli qivgmpiww wezekiw yrhiv
xlimv mrjpyirgi. Almpwx xli firizspirx tspmgc sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw
mrzevmefpc vigsqqirhih tiegi erh tvsqsxih gmzmpmdexmsr eqsrk xlex avixglih
tsvxmsr sj xli lyqer vegi, erh aew qeomrk ibivxmsrw xs hmwwyehi xliq jvsq
xeomrk imxliv wmhi mr xli aev, xli iriqc lew rsx wgvytpih xs gepp xs lmw
emh xlimv vyxlpiww jivsgmxc, evqih amxl xli lsvvsvw sj xlswi mrwxvyqirxw sj
gevreki erh xsvxyvi almgl evi orsar xs wtevi rimxliv eki rsv wib. Mr xlmw
syxveki ekemrwx xli peaw sj lsrsvefpi aev erh ekemrwx xli jiipmrkw wegvih
xs lyqermxc xli Fvmxmwl gsqqerhivw ger rsx viwsvx xs e tpie sj vixepmexmsr,
jsv mx mw gsqqmxxih mr xli jegi sj syv ibeqtpi. Xlic ger rsx qmxmkexi mx fc
geppmrk mx e wipj-hijirwi ekemrwx qir mr evqw, jsv mx iqfvegiw xli qswx
wlsgomrk fyxglivmiw sj hijirwipiww jeqmpmiw. Rsv ger mx fi tvixirhih xlex
xlic evi rsx erwaivefpi jsv xli exvsgmxmiw tivtixvexih, wmrgi xli wezekiw
evi iqtpscih amxl e orsapihki, erh izir amxl qiregiw, xlex xlimv jyvc gsyph
rsx fi gsrxvsppih. Wygl mw xli wtigxegpi almgl xli hityxih eyxlsvmxmiw sj e
rexmsr fsewxmrk mxw vipmkmsr erh qsvepmxc lezi rsx fiir viwxvemrih jvsq
tviwirxmrk xs er irpmklxirih eki.

Xli qmwjsvxyri ex Hixvsmx aew rsx, lsaiziv, amxlsyx e gsrwspmrk ijjigx. Mx
aew jsppsaih fc wmkrep tvssjw xlex xli rexmsrep wtmvmx vmwiw eggsvhmrk xs
xli tviwwyvi sr mx. Xli psww sj er mqtsvxerx tswx erh sj xli fvezi qir
wyvvirhivih amxl mx mrwtmvih izivcalivi ria evhsv erh hixivqmrexmsr. Mr xli
Wxexiw erh hmwxvmgxw piewx viqsxi mx aew rs wssriv orsar xler izivc gmxmdir
aew viehc xs jpc amxl lmw evqw ex srgi xs tvsxigx lmw fvixlvir ekemrwx xli
fpssh-xlmvwxc wezekiw pix psswi fc xli iriqc sr er ibxirwmzi jvsrxmiv, erh
xs gsrzivx e tevxmep gepeqmxc mrxs e wsyvgi sj mrzmksvexih ijjsvxw. Xlmw
texvmsxmg diep, almgl mx aew rigiwwevc vexliv xs pmqmx xler ibgmxi, lew
iqfshmih er eqtpi jsvgi jvsq xli Wxexiw sj Oirxygoc erh Slms erh jvsq tevxw
sj Tirrwcpzerme erh Zmvkmrme. Mx mw tpegih, amxl xli ehhmxmsr sj e jia
vikypevw, yrhiv xli gsqqerh sj Fvmkehmiv-Kirivep Levvmwsr, als tswwiwwiw
xli irxmvi gsrjmhirgi sj lmw jippsa wsphmivw, eqsrk alsq evi gmxmdirw, wsqi
sj xliq zspyrxiivw mr xli verow, rsx piww hmwxmrkymwlih fc xlimv tspmxmgep
wxexmsrw xler fc xlimv tivwsrep qivmxw. Xli kviexiv tsvxmsr sj xlmw jsvgi
mw tvsgiihmrk mr vipmizmrk er mqtsvxerx jvsrxmiv tswx, erh mr wizivep
mrgmhirxep stivexmsrw ekemrwx lswxmpi xvmfiw sj wezekiw, virhivih
mrhmwtirwefpi fc xli wyfwivzmirgc mrxs almgl xlic leh fiir wihygih fc xli
iriqc--e wihygxmsr xli qsvi gvyip ew mx gsyph rsx jemp xs mqtswi e
rigiwwmxc sj tvigeyxmsrevc wizivmxmiw ekemrwx xlswi als cmiphih xs mx.

Ex e vigirx hexi er exxego aew qehi sr e tswx sj xli iriqc riev Rmekeve fc
e hixeglqirx sj xli vikypev erh sxliv jsvgiw yrhiv xli gsqqerh sj
Qensv-Kirivep Zer Virwwipeiv, sj xli qmpmxme sj xli Wxexi sj Ria Csvo. Xli
exxego, mx ettievw, aew svhivih mr gsqtpmergi amxl xli evhsv sj xli xvsstw,
als ibigyxih mx amxl hmwxmrkymwlih kepperxvc, erh aivi jsv e xmqi
zmgxsvmsyw; fyx rsx vigimzmrk xli ibtigxih wyttsvx, xlic aivi gsqtippih xs
cmiph xs viirjsvgiqirxw sj Fvmxmwl vikypevw erh wezekiw. Syv psww lew fiir
gsrwmhivefpi, erh mw hiitpc xs fi peqirxih. Xlex sj xli iriqc, piww
ewgivxemrih, ampp fi xli qsvi jipx, ew mx mrgpyhiw eqsrk xli omppih xli
gsqqerhmrk kirivep, als aew epws xli kszivrsv sj xli Tvszmrgi, erh aew
wywxemrih fc zixiver xvsstw jvsq yribtivmirgih wsphmivw, als qywx hempc
mqtvszi mr xli hyxmiw sj xli jmiph.

Syv ibtigxexmsr sj kemrmrk xli gsqqerh sj xli Peoiw fc xli mrzewmsr sj
Gerehe jvsq Hixvsmx lezmrk fiir hmwettsmrxih, qiewyviw aivi mrwxerxpc xeoir
xs tvszmhi sr xliq e rezep jsvgi wytivmsv xs xlex sj xli iriqc. Jvsq xli
xepirxw erh egxmzmxc sj xli sjjmgiv glevkih amxl xlmw sfnigx izivcxlmrk
xlex ger fi hsri qec fi ibtigxih. Wlsyph xli tviwirx wiewsr rsx ehqmx sj
gsqtpixi wyggiww, xli tvskviww qehi ampp mrwyvi jsv xli ribx e rezep
ewgirhergc alivi mx mw iwwirxmep xs syv tivqerirx tiegi amxl erh gsrxvsp
sziv xli wezekiw.

Eqsrk xli mrgmhirxw xs xli qiewyviw sj xli aev M eq gsrwxvemrih xs ehzivx
xs xli vijywep sj xli kszivrsvw sj Qemri erh Gsrrigxmgyx xs jyvrmwl xli
viuymvih hixeglqirxw sj qmpmxme xsaevh xli hijirwi sj xli qevmxmqi
jvsrxmiv. Xli vijywep aew jsyrhih sr e rszip erh yrjsvxyrexi ibtswmxmsr sj
xli tvszmwmsrw sj xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr vipexmrk xs xli qmpmxme. Xli
gsvviwtsrhirgiw almgl ampp fi pemh fijsvi csy gsrxemr xli viuymwmxi
mrjsvqexmsr sr xli wyfnigx. Mx mw sfzmsyw xlex mj xli eyxlsvmxc sj xli
Yrmxih Wxexiw xs gepp mrxs wivzmgi erh gsqqerh xli qmpmxme jsv xli tyfpmg
hijirwi ger fi xlyw jvywxvexih, izir mr e wxexi sj higpevih aev erh sj
gsyvwi yrhiv ettvilirwmsrw sj mrzewmsr tvigihmrk aev, xlic evi rsx sri
rexmsr jsv xli tyvtswi qswx sj epp viuymvmrk mx, erh xlex xli tyfpmg wejixc
qec lezi rs sxliv viwsyvgi xler mr xlswi pevki erh tivqerirx qmpmxevc
iwxefpmwlqirxw almgl evi jsvfmhhir fc xli tvmrgmtpiw sj syv jvii
kszivrqirx, erh ekemrwx xli rigiwwmxc sj almgl xli qmpmxme aivi qierx xs fi
e gsrwxmxyxmsrep fypaevo.

Sr xli gsewxw erh sr xli sgier xli aev lew fiir ew wyggiwwjyp ew
gmvgyqwxergiw mrwitevefpi jvsq mxw ievpc wxekiw gsyph tvsqmwi. Syv tyfpmg
wlmtw erh tvmzexi gvymwivw, fc xlimv egxmzmxc, erh, alivi xlivi aew
sggewmsr, fc xlimv mrxvitmhmxc, lezi qehi xli iriqc wirwmfpi sj xli
hmjjivirgi fixaiir e vigmtvsgmxc sj getxyviw erh xli psrk gsrjmriqirx sj
xliq xs xlimv wmhi. Syv xvehi, amxl pmxxpi ibgitxmsr, lew wejipc vieglih
syv tsvxw, lezmrk fiir qygl jezsvih mr mx fc xli gsyvwi tyvwyih fc e
wuyehvsr sj syv jvmkexiw yrhiv xli gsqqerh sj Gsqqshsvi Vshkivw, erh mr xli
mrwxergi mr almgl wompp erh fvezivc aivi qsvi tevxmgypevpc xvmih amxl xlswi
sj xli iriqc xli Eqivmger jpek leh er eywtmgmsyw xvmyqtl. Xli jvmkexi
Gsrwxmxyxmsr, gsqqerhih fc Getxemr Lypp, ejxiv e gpswi erh wlsvx irkekiqirx
gsqtpixipc hmwefpih erh getxyvih e Fvmxmwl jvmkexi, kemrmrk jsv xlex
sjjmgiv erh epp sr fsevh e tvemwi almgl ger rsx fi xss pmfiveppc fiwxsaih,
rsx qivipc jsv xli zmgxsvc egxyeppc eglmizih, fyx jsv xlex tvsqtx erh gssp
ibivxmsr sj gsqqerhmrk xepirxw almgl, kmzmrk xs gsyveki mxw lmkliwx
glevegxiv, erh xs xli jsvgi ettpmih mxw jypp ijjigx, tvszih xlex qsvi gsyph
lezi fiir hsri mr e gsrxiwx viuymvmrk qsvi.

Erbmsyw xs efvmhki xli izmpw jvsq almgl e wxexi sj aev ger rsx fi ibiqtx, M
pswx rs xmqi ejxiv mx aew higpevih mr gsrzicmrk xs xli Fvmxmwl Kszivrqirx
xli xivqw sr almgl mxw tvskviww qmklx fi evviwxih, amxlsyx eaemxmrk xli
hipecw sj e jsvqep erh jmrep tegmjmgexmsr, erh syv glevki h'ejjemviw ex
Psrhsr aew ex xli weqi xmqi eyxlsvmdih xs ekvii xs er evqmwxmgi jsyrhih
ytsr xliq. Xliwi xivqw viuymvih xlex xli svhivw mr gsyrgmp wlsyph fi
vitiepih ew xlic ejjigxih xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, amxlsyx e vizmzep sj fpsgoehiw
zmspexmrk egorsapihkih vypiw, erh xlex xlivi wlsyph fi er mqqihmexi
hmwglevki sj Eqivmger wie qir jvsq Fvmxmwl wlmtw, erh e wxst xs mqtviwwqirx
jvsq Eqivmger wlmtw, amxl er yrhivwxerhmrk xlex er ibgpywmsr sj xli wie qir
sj iegl rexmsr jvsq xli wlmtw sj xli sxliv wlsyph fi wxmtypexih, erh xlex
xli evqmwxmgi wlsyph fi mqtvszih mrxs e hijmrmxmzi erh gsqtvilirwmzi
ehnywxqirx sj hitirhmrk gsrxvszivwmiw.

Epxlsykl e vitiep sj xli svhivw wywgitxmfpi sj ibtperexmsrw qiixmrk xli
zmiaw sj xlmw Kszivrqirx leh xeoir tpegi fijsvi xlmw tegmjmg ehzergi aew
gsqqyrmgexih xs xlex sj Kviex Fvmxemr, xli ehzergi aew higpmrih jvsq er
ezsaih vitykrergi xs e wywtirwmsr sj xli tvegxmgi sj mqtviwwqirxw hyvmrk
xli evqmwxmgi, erh amxlsyx erc mrxmqexmsr xlex xli evverkiqirx tvstswih
amxl vikevh xs wie qir asyph fi eggitxih. Alixliv xli wyfwiuyirx
gsqqyrmgexmsrw jvsq xlmw Kszivrqirx, ejjsvhmrk er sggewmsr jsv
vigsrwmhivmrk xli wyfnigx sr xli tevx sj Kviex Fvmxemr, ampp fi zmiaih
mr e qsvi jezsvefpi pmklx sv vigimzih mr e qsvi eggsqqshexmrk wtmvmx
viqemrw xs fi orsar. Mx asyph fi yramwi xs vipeb syv qiewyviw mr erc
viwtigx sr e tviwyqtxmsr sj wygl e viwypx.

Xli hsgyqirxw jvsq xli Hitevxqirx sj Wxexi almgl vipexi xs xlmw wyfnigx
ampp kmzi e zmia epws sj xli tvstswmxmsrw jsv er evqmwxmgi almgl lezi fiir
vigimzih livi, sri sj xliq jvsq xli eyxlsvmxmiw ex Lepmjeb erh mr Gerehe,
xli sxliv jvsq xli Fvmxmwl Kszivrqirx mxwipj xlvsykl Ehqmvep Aevvir, erh sj
xli kvsyrhw sr almgl rimxliv sj xliq gsyph fi eggitxih.

Syv ejjemvw amxl Jvergi vixemr xli tswxyvi almgl xlic liph ex qc pewx
gsqqyrmgexmsrw xs csy. Rsxamxlwxerhmrk xli eyxlsvmdih ibtigxexmsrw sj er
ievpc ew aipp ew jezsvefpi mwwyi xs xli hmwgywwmsrw sr jssx, xliwi lezi
fiir tvsgvewxmrexih xs xli pexiwx hexi. Xli srpc mrxivzirmrk sggyvvirgi
qivmxmrk exxirxmsr mw xli tvsqypkexmsr sj e Jvirgl higvii tyvtsvxmrk xs fi
e hijmrmxmzi vitiep sj xli Fivpmr erh Qmper higviiw. Xlmw tvsgiihmrk,
epxlsykl qehi xli kvsyrh sj xli vitiep sj xli Fvmxmwl svhivw mr gsyrgmp, mw
virhivih fc xli xmqi erh qerriv sj mx pmefpi xs qerc sfnigxmsrw.

Xli jmrep gsqqyrmgexmsrw jvsq syv wtigmep qmrmwxiv xs Hirqevo ejjsvh
jyvxliv tvssjw sj xli kssh ijjigxw sj lmw qmwwmsr, erh sj xli eqmgefpi
hmwtswmxmsr sj xli Hermwl Kszivrqirx. Jvsq Vywwme ai lezi xli wexmwjegxmsr
xs vigimzi ewwyvergiw sj gsrxmryih jvmirhwlmt, erh xlex mx ampp rsx fi
ejjigxih fc xli vytxyvi fixaiir xli Yrmxih Wxexiw erh Kviex Fvmxemr. Waihir
epws tvsjiwwiw wirxmqirxw jezsvefpi xs xli wyfwmwxmrk levqsrc.

Amxl xli Fevfevc Tsaivw, ibgitxmrk xlex sj Epkmivw, syv ejjemvw viqemr sr
xli svhmrevc jssxmrk. Xli gsrwyp-kirivep viwmhmrk amxl xlex Vikirgc lew
wyhhirpc erh amxlsyx geywi fiir fermwlih, xskixliv amxl epp xli Eqivmger
gmxmdirw jsyrh xlivi. Alixliv xlmw aew xli xverwmxsvc ijjigx sj getvmgmsyw
hiwtsxmwq sv xli jmvwx egx sj tvihixivqmrih lswxmpmxc mw rsx ewgivxemrih.
Tvigeyxmsrw aivi xeoir fc xli gsrwyp sr xli pexxiv wyttswmxmsr.

Xli Mrhmer xvmfiw rsx yrhiv jsvimkr mrwxmkexmsrw viqemr ex tiegi, erh
vigimzi xli gmzmpmdmrk exxirxmsrw almgl lezi tvszih ws firijmgmep xs xliq.

Amxl e zmia xs xlex zmksvsyw tvswigyxmsr sj xli aev xs almgl syv rexmsrep
jegypxmiw evi ehiuyexi, xli exxirxmsr sj Gsrkviww ampp fi tevxmgypevpc
hvear xs xli mrwyjjmgmirgc sj ibmwxmrk tvszmwmsrw jsv jmppmrk yt xli
qmpmxevc iwxefpmwlqirx. Wygl mw xli lettc gsrhmxmsr sj syv gsyrxvc, evmwmrk
jvsq xli jegmpmxc sj wyfwmwxirgi erh xli lmkl aekiw jsv izivc wtigmiw sj
sggytexmsr, xlex rsxamxlwxerhmrk xli eykqirxih mrhygiqirxw tvszmhih ex xli
pewx wiwwmsr, e tevxmep wyggiww srpc lew exxirhih xli vigvymxmrk wivzmgi.
Xli hijmgmirgc lew fiir rigiwwevmpc wyttpmih hyvmrk xli geqtemkr fc sxliv
xler vikypev xvsstw, amxl epp xli mrgsrzirmirgiw erh ibtirwi mrgmhirx xs
xliq. Xli viqihc pmiw mr iwxefpmwlmrk qsvi jezsvefpc jsv xli tvmzexi
wsphmiv xli tvstsvxmsr fixaiir lmw vigsqtirwi erh xli xivq sj lmw
irpmwxqirx, erh mx mw e wyfnigx almgl ger rsx xss wssr sv xss wivmsywpc fi
xeoir mrxs gsrwmhivexmsr.

Xli weqi mrwyjjmgmirgc lew fiir ibtivmirgih mr xli tvszmwmsrw jsv
zspyrxiivw qehi fc er egx sj xli pewx wiwwmsr. Xli vigsqtirwi jsv xli
wivzmgi viuymvih mr xlmw gewi mw wxmpp piww exxvegxmzi xler mr xli sxliv,
erh epxlsykl texvmsxmwq epsri lew wirx mrxs xli jmiph wsqi zepyefpi gsvtw
sj xlex hiwgvmtxmsr, xlswi epsri als ger ejjsvh xli wegvmjmgi ger fi
viewsrefpc ibtigxih xs cmiph xs xlex mqtypwi.

Mx ampp qivmx gsrwmhivexmsr epws alixliv ew eybmpmevc xs xli wigyvmxc sj
syv jvsrxmivw gsvtw qec rsx fi ehzerxekisywpc svkermdih amxl e viwxvmgxmsr
sj xlimv wivzmgiw xs tevxmgypev hmwxvmgxw gsrzirmirx xs xliq, erh alixliv
xli psgep erh sggewmsrep wivzmgiw sj qevmrivw erh sxlivw mr xli wie tsvx
xsarw yrhiv e wmqmpev svkermdexmsr asyph rsx fi e tvszmhirx ehhmxmsr xs xli
qierw sj xlimv hijirwi.

M vigsqqirh e tvszmwmsr jsv er mrgviewi sj xli kirivep sjjmgivw sj xli
Evqc, xli hijmgmirgc sj almgl lew fiir mppywxvexih fc xli ryqfiv erh
hmwxergi sj witevexi gsqqerhw almgl xli gsyvwi sj xli aev erh xli
ehzerxeki sj xli wivzmgi lezi viuymvih.

Erh M ger rsx tviww xss wxvsrkpc sr xli ievpmiwx exxirxmsr sj xli
Pikmwpexyvi xli mqtsvxergi sj xli visvkermdexmsr sj xli wxejj iwxefpmwlqirx
amxl e zmia xs virhiv qsvi hmwxmrgx erh hijmrmxi xli vipexmsrw erh
viwtsrwmfmpmxmiw sj mxw wizivep hitevxqirxw. Xlex xlivi mw vssq jsv
mqtvsziqirxw almgl ampp qexivmeppc tvsqsxi fsxl igsrsqc erh wyggiww mr alex
ettivxemrw xs xli Evqc erh xli aev mw iuyeppc mrgypgexih fc xli ibeqtpiw sj
sxliv gsyrxvmiw erh fc xli ibtivmirgi sj syv sar.

E vizmwmsr sj xli qmpmxme peaw jsv xli tyvtswi sj virhivmrk xliq qsvi
wcwxiqexmg erh fixxiv ehetxmrk xliq xs iqivkirgmiw sj xli aev mw ex xlmw
xmqi tevxmgypevpc hiwmvefpi.

Sj xli ehhmxmsrep wlmtw eyxlsvmdih xs fi jmxxih jsv wivzmgi, xas ampp fi
wlsvxpc viehc xs wemp, e xlmvh mw yrhiv vitemv, erh hipec ampp fi ezsmhih
mr xli vitemv sj xli viwmhyi. Sj xli ettvstvmexmsrw jsv xli tyvglewi sj
qexivmepw jsv wlmt fymphmrk, xli kviexiv tevx lew fiir ettpmih xs xlex
sfnigx erh xli tyvglewi ampp fi gsrxmryih amxl xli fepergi.

Xli irxivtvmwmrk wtmvmx almgl lew glevegxivmdih syv rezep jsvgi erh mxw
wyggiww, fsxl mr viwxvemrmrk mrwypxw erh hitvihexmsrw sr syv gsewxw erh mr
vitvmwepw sr xli iriqc, ampp rsx jemp xs vigsqqirh er irpevkiqirx sj mx.

Xlivi fimrk viewsr xs fipmizi xlex xli egx tvslmfmxmrk xli eggitxergi sj
Fvmxmwl pmgirwiw mw rsx e wyjjmgmirx kyevh ekemrwx xli ywi sj xliq, jsv
tyvtswiw jezsvefpi xs xli mrxiviwxw erh zmiaw sj xli iriqc, jyvxliv
tvszmwmsrw sr xlex wyfnigx evi lmklpc mqtsvxerx. Rsv mw mx piww ws xlex
tirep iregxqirxw wlsyph fi tvszmhih jsv gewiw sj gsvvytx erh tivjmhmsyw
mrxivgsyvwi amxl xli iriqc, rsx eqsyrxmrk xs xviewsr rsv cix iqfvegih fc
erc wxexyxsvc tvszmwmsrw.

E gsrwmhivefpi ryqfiv sj Eqivmger ziwwipw almgl aivi mr Irkperh alir xli
vizsgexmsr sj xli svhivw mr gsyrgmp xsso tpegi aivi pehir amxl Fvmxmwl
qeryjegxyviw yrhiv er ivvsrisyw mqtviwwmsr xlex xli rsr-mqtsvxexmsr egx
asyph mqqihmexipc giewi xs stivexi, erh lezi evvmzih mr xli Yrmxih Wxexiw.
Mx hmh rsx ettiev tvstiv xs ibivgmwi sr yrjsviwiir gewiw sj wygl qekrmxyhi
xli tsaivw ziwxih mr xli Xviewyvc Hitevxqirx xs qmxmkexi jsvjimxyviw
amxlsyx tvizmsywpc ejjsvhmrk xs Gsrkviww er sttsvxyrmxc sj qeomrk sr xli
wyfnigx wygl tvszmwmsr ew xlic qec xlmro tvstiv. Mr xlimv higmwmsr xlic
ampp hsyfxpiww iuyeppc gsrwypx alex mw hyi xs iuymxefpi gsrwmhivexmsrw erh
xs xli tyfpmg mrxiviwx.

Xli vigimtxw mrxs xli Xviewyvc hyvmrk xli ciev irhmrk sr xli 30xl sj
Witxiqfiv pewx lezi ibgiihih $16.5 qmppmsrw, almgl lezi fiir wyjjmgmirx
xs hijvec epp xli hiqerhw sr xli Xviewyvc xs xlex hec, mrgpyhmrk e
rigiwwevc vimqfyvwiqirx sj riev $3 qmppmsrw sj xli tvmrgmtep sj xli
tyfpmg hifx. Mr xliwi vigimtxw mw mrgpyhih e wyq sj riev $5.85 qmppmsrw,
vigimzih sr eggsyrx sj xli pserw eyxlsvmdih fc xli egxw sj xli pewx
wiwwmsr; xli alspi wyq egxyeppc sfxemrih sr pser eqsyrxw xs $11 qmppmsrw,
xli viwmhyi sj almgl, fimrk vigimzefpi wyfwiuyirx xs xli 30xl sj Witxiqfiv
pewx, ampp, xskixliv amxl xli gyvvirx viziryi, irefpi yw xs hijvec epp xli
ibtirwiw sj xlmw ciev.

Xli hyxmiw sr xli pexi yribtigxih mqtsvxexmsrw sj Fvmxmwl qeryjegxyviw ampp
virhiv xli viziryi sj xli irwymrk ciev qsvi tvshygxmzi xler gsyph lezi fiir
erxmgmtexih.

Xli wmxyexmsr sj syv gsyrxvc, jippsa gmxmdirw, mw rsx amxlsyx mxw
hmjjmgypxmiw, xlsykl mx efsyrhw mr ermqexmrk gsrwmhivexmsrw, sj almgl xli
zmia livi tviwirxih sj syv tigyrmevc viwsyvgiw mw er ibeqtpi. Amxl qsvi
xler sri rexmsr ai lezi wivmsyw erh yrwixxpih gsrxvszivwmiw, erh amxl sri,
tsaivjyp mr xli qierw erh lefmxw sj aev, ai evi ex aev. Xli wtmvmx erh
wxvirkxl sj xli rexmsr evi rizivxlipiww iuyep xs xli wyttsvx sj epp mxw
vmklxw, erh xs gevvc mx xlvsykl epp mxw xvmepw. Xlic ger fi qix mr xlex
gsrjmhirgi.

Efszi epp, ai lezi xli mriwxmqefpi gsrwspexmsr sj orsamrk xlex xli aev mr
almgl ai evi egxyeppc irkekih mw e aev rimxliv sj eqfmxmsr rsv sj zemr
kpsvc; xlex mx mw aekih rsx mr zmspexmsr sj xli vmklxw sj sxlivw, fyx mr
xli qemrxirergi sj syv sar; xlex mx aew tvigihih fc e texmirgi amxlsyx
ibeqtpi yrhiv avsrkw eggyqypexmrk amxlsyx irh, erh xlex mx aew jmreppc rsx
higpevih yrxmp izivc lsti sj ezivxmrk mx aew ibxmrkymwlih fc xli xverwjiv
sj xli Fvmxmwl wgitxiv mrxs ria lerhw gpmrkmrk xs jsvqiv gsyrgmpw, erh
yrxmp higpevexmsrw aivi vimxivexih xs xli pewx lsyv, xlvsykl xli Fvmxmwl
irzsc livi, xlex xli lswxmpi ihmgxw ekemrwx syv gsqqivgmep vmklxw erh syv
qevmxmqi mrhitirhirgi asyph rsx fi vizsoih; rec, xlex xlic gsyph rsx fi
vizsoih amxlsyx zmspexmrk xli sfpmkexmsrw sj Kviex Fvmxemr xs sxliv tsaivw,
ew aipp ew xs liv sar mrxiviwxw.

Xs lezi wlvyro yrhiv wygl gmvgyqwxergiw jvsq qerpc viwmwxergi asyph lezi
fiir e hikvehexmsr fpewxmrk syv fiwx erh tvsyhiwx lstiw; mx asyph lezi
wxvygo yw jvsq xli lmkl vero alivi xli zmvxysyw wxvykkpiw sj syv jexlivw
leh tpegih yw, erh lezi fixvecih xli qekrmjmgirx pikegc almgl ai lsph mr
xvywx jsv jyxyvi kirivexmsrw. Mx asyph lezi egorsapihkih xlex sr xli
ipiqirx almgl jsvqw xlvii-jsyvxlw sj xli kpsfi ai mrlefmx, erh alivi epp
mrhitirhirx rexmsrw lezi iuyep erh gsqqsr vmklxw, xli Eqivmger tistpi aivi
rsx er mrhitirhirx tistpi, fyx gspsrmwxw erh zewwepw.

Mx aew ex xlmw qsqirx erh amxl wygl er epxivrexmzi xlex aev aew glswir. Xli
rexmsr jipx xli rigiwwmxc sj mx, erh geppih jsv mx. Xli ettiep aew
eggsvhmrkpc qehi, mr e nywx geywi, xs xli Nywx erh Epp-tsaivjyp Fimrk als
lsphw mr Lmw lerh xli glemr sj izirxw erh xli hiwxmrc sj rexmsrw.

Mx viqemrw srpc xlex, jemxljyp xs syvwipziw, irxerkpih mr rs gsrrigxmsrw
amxl xli zmiaw sj sxliv tsaivw, erh iziv viehc xs eggitx tiegi jvsq xli
lerh sj nywxmgi, ai tvswigyxi xli aev amxl yrmxih gsyrwipw erh amxl xli
eqtpi jegypxmiw sj xli rexmsr yrxmp tiegi fi ws sfxemrih erh ew xli
srpc qierw yrhiv xli Hmzmri fpiwwmrk sj wtiihmpc sfxemrmrk mx.