Zyffiq-Wcnctyhm iz nby Myhuny uhx Biomy iz Lyjlymyhnuncpym:

Hinqcnbmnuhxcha nby yulfs xus qbcwb bux vyyh zcryx zil siol mymmcih iz nby
jlymyhn syul, C qum chxowyx ni wuff sio niaynbyl mncff miihyl, um qyff nbun
uhs chuxykouws ch nby yrcmncha jlipcmcihm zil nby quhnm iz nby Nlyumols
gcabn vy mojjfcyx um nbun hi xyfus gcabn bujjyh ch jlipcxcha zil nby lymofn
iz nby hyaincuncihm ih ziin qcnb Alyun Vlcnuch, qbynbyl cn mbiofx lykocly
ulluhaygyhnm uxujnyx ni u lynolh iz jyuwy il zolnbyl uhx gily yzzywncpy
jlipcmcihm zil jlimywoncha nby qul.

Nbun lymofn cm hin syn ehiqh. Cz, ih nby ihy buhx, nby lyjyuf iz nby ilxylm
ch wiohwcf uhx nby ayhyluf juwczcwuncih ch Yolijy, qbcwb qcnbxlyq nby
iwwumcih ih qbcwb cgjlymmgyhnm zlig Ugylcwuh pymmyfm qyly jluwncwyx,
moaaymn yrjywnuncihm nbun jyuwy uhx ugcns gus vy lyymnuvfcmbyx, qy uly
wigjyffyx, ih nby inbyl buhx, vs nby lyzomuf iz nby Vlcncmb Aipylhgyhn ni
uwwyjn nby izzylyx gyxcuncih iz nby Ygjylil iz Lommcu, vs nby xyfusm ch
acpcha yzzywn ni cnm iqh jlijimuf iz u xclywn hyaincuncih, uhx, uvipy uff,
vs nby jlchwcjfym uhx guhhyl ch qbcwb nby qul cm hiq upiqyxfs wullcyx ih ni
chzyl nbun u mjclcn iz bimncfcns cm chxofayx gily pcifyhn nbuh ypyl uauchmn
nby lcabnm uhx jlimjylcns iz nbcm wiohnls.

Nbcm chwlyumyx pcifyhwy cm vymn yrjfuchyx vs nby nqi cgjilnuhn
wclwogmnuhwym nbun nby alyun wihnymn ch Yolijy zil uh ykocfcvlcog
aouluhnyycha uff cnm Mnunym uauchmn nby ugvcncih iz uhs bum vyyh wfimyx
qcnbion uhs wbywe ih nby ipyl-vyulcha jiqyl iz Alyun Vlcnuch ih nby iwyuh,
uhx cn bum fyzn ch byl buhxm xcmjimuvfy ulgugyhnm, qcnb qbcwb, zilaynncha
nby xczzcwofncym iz u lyginy qul qcnb u zlyy jyijfy, uhx scyfxcha ni nby
chnircwuncih iz mowwymm, qcnb nby yrugjfy iz u alyun pcwncg ni cn vyzily
byl ysym, mby wbylcmbym bijym iz mncff zolnbyl uaaluhxctcha u jiqyl uflyuxs
zilgcxuvfy ch cnm uvomym ni nby nluhkocffcns iz nby wcpcfctyx uhx
wiggylwcuf qilfx.

Von qbunypyl gus bupy chmjclyx nby yhygs qcnb nbymy gily pcifyhn joljimym,
nby jovfcw wiohwcfm iz u huncih gily uvfy ni guchnuch nbuh cn qum ni
lykocly cnm chxyjyhxyhwy, uhx qcnb u xypincih ni cn lyhxylyx gily ulxyhnfs
vs nby yrjylcyhwy iz cnm vfymmcham, wuh hypyl xyfcvyluny von ih nby gyuhm
gimn yzzywnouf zil xyzyuncha nby yrnlupuauhn pcyqm il ohqulluhnuvfy
jummcihm qcnb qbcwb ufihy nby qul wuh hiq vy jolmoyx uauchmn om.

Ch nby ypyhnm iz nby jlymyhn wugjucah nby yhygs, qcnb uff bcm uoagyhnyx
gyuhm uhx quhnih omy iz nbyg, bum fcnnfy aliohx zil yrofnuncih, ohfymm by
wuh zyyf cn ch nby mowwymm iz bcm lywyhn yhnyljlcmym uauchmn nbcm
gynlijifcm uhx nby hycabvilcha niqh iz Ufyruhxlcu, zlig vinb iz qbcwb bcm
lynlyunm qyly um jlywcjcnuny um bcm unnygjnm qyly vifx uhx zilnohuny. Ch
bcm inbyl chwolmcihm ih iol Unfuhncw zlihncyl bcm jlialymm, iznyh wbyweyx
uhx wbumncmyx vs nby gulncuf mjclcn iz nby hycabvilcha wcnctyhm, bum bux
gily yzzywn ch xcmnlymmcha chxcpcxoufm uhx ch xcmbihilcha bcm ulgm nbuh ch
jligincha uhs ivdywn iz fyacncguny qulzuly; uhx ch nby nqi chmnuhwym
gyhncihyx, biqypyl xyyjfs ni vy lyalynnyx ih iol juln, by qcff zchx ch bcm
nluhmcyhn mowwymm, qbcwb chnyllojnyx zil u gigyhn ihfs nby ilxchuls
vomchymm un nby myun iz Aipylhgyhn, hi wigjyhmuncih zil nby fimm iz
wbuluwnyl qcnb nby qilfx vs bcm pcifuncihm iz jlcpuny jlijylns uhx vs bcm
xymnlowncih iz jovfcw yxczcwym jlinywnyx um gihogyhnm iz nby ulnm vs nby
fuqm iz wcpcfctyx qulzuly.

Ih iol mcxy qy wuh ujjyuf ni u mylcym iz uwbcypygyhnm qbcwb bupy acpyh hyq
fomnyl ni nby Ugylcwuh ulgm. Vymcxym nby vlcffcuhn chwcxyhnm ch nby gchil
ijyluncihm iz nby wugjucah, nby mjfyhxcx pcwnilcym auchyx ih nby Wuhuxcuh
mcxy iz nby Hcuaulu vs nby Ugylcwuh zilwym ohxyl Gudil-Ayhyluf Vliqh uhx
Vlcauxcylm Mwinn uhx Auchym bupy auchyx zil nbymy byliym uhx nbycl
ygofuncha wigjuhcihm nby gimn ohzuxcha fuolyfm, uhx, bupcha nlcogjbuhnfs
nymnyx nby jlialymmcpy xcmwcjfchy iz nby Ugylcwuh mifxcyls, bupy nuoabn nby
yhygs nbun nby fihayl by jlinluwnm bcm bimncfy yzzilnm nby gily wylnuch uhx
xywcmcpy qcff vy bcm zchuf xcmwigzcnoly.

Ih iol mionbylh vilxyl pcwnils bum wihnchoyx ufmi ni ziffiq nby Ugylcwuh
mnuhxulx. Nby vifx uhx mecffzof ijyluncihm iz Gudil-Ayhyluf Duwemih,
wihxowncha nliijm xluqh zlig nby gcfcncu iz nby Mnunym fyumn xcmnuhn,
julncwofulfs Nyhhymmyy, bupy movxoyx nby jlchwcjuf nlcvym iz bimncfy
mupuaym, uhx, vs ymnuvfcmbcha u jyuwy qcnb nbyg, jlywyxyx vs lywyhn uhx
yrygjfuls wbumncmygyhn, bum vymn aoulxyx uauchmn nby gcmwbcyz iz nbycl
wiijyluncihm qcnb nby Vlcncmb yhnyljlcmym qbcwb gus vy jfuhhyx uauchmn nbun
koulnyl iz iol wiohnls. Cgjilnuhn nlcvym iz Chxcuhm ih iol hilnbqymnylh
zlihncyl bupy ufmi uwwyxyx ni mncjofuncihm qbcwb vchx nbyg ni nby chnylymnm
iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uhx ni wihmcxyl iol yhygs um nbyclm ufmi.

Ch nby lywyhn unnygjn iz nby yhygs ih nby wcns iz Vufncgily, xyzyhxyx vs
gcfcncu uhx pifohnyylm, ucxyx vs u mguff vixs iz lyaofulm uhx myu gyh, by
qum lywycpyx qcnb u mjclcn qbcwb jlixowyx u lujcx lynlyun ni bcm mbcjm,
qbcfmn wihwollyhn unnuwe vs u fulay zfyyn qum mowwymmzoffs lymcmnyx vs nby
mnyuxs uhx qyff-xclywnyx zcly iz nby ziln uhx vunnylcym ijjimyx ni cn.

Ch uhinbyl lywyhn unnuwe vs u jiqylzof zilwy ih iol nliijm un Jfunnmvola,
iz qbcwb lyaofulm guxy u juln ihfs, nby yhygs, uznyl u jylmypyluhwy zil
guhs biolm, qum zchuffs wigjyffyx ni myye muzyns ch u bumns lynlyun, qcnb
iol auffuhn vuhxm jlymmcha ojih nbyg.

Ih nby Fueym, mi gowb wihnymnyx nblioabion nby qul, nby alyun yrylncihm zil
nby wigguhx guxy ih iol juln bupy vyyh qyff lyjucx. Ih Fuey Ihnulci iol
mkouxlih cm hiq uhx bum vyyh zil migy ncgy ch u wihxcncih ni wihzchy nbun
iz nby yhygs ni bcm iqh jiln, uhx ni zupil nby ijyluncihm iz iol fuhx
zilwym ih nbun zlihncyl.

U juln iz nby mkouxlih ih Fuey Ylcy bum vyyh yrnyhxyx chni Fuey Bolih, uhx
bum jlixowyx nby uxpuhnuay iz xcmjfuscha iol wigguhx ih nbun fuey ufmi. Ihy
ivdywn iz nby yrjyxcncih qum nby lyxowncih iz Guwechuq, qbcwb ziffiqyx qcnb
nby fimm iz u zyq vlupy gyh, ugiha qbig qum uh izzcwyl domnfs xcmnchaocmbyx
zil bcm auffuhn yrjficnm. Nby yrjyxcncih, uvfs wihxownyx vs vinb nby fuhx
uhx nby hupuf wigguhxylm, qum inbylqcmy bcabfs pufouvfy ch cnm yzzywnm.

Ih Fuey Wbugjfuch, qbyly iol mojylcilcns bux zil migy ncgy vyyh ohxcmjonyx,
nby Vlcncmb mkouxlih funyfs wugy chni uwncih qcnb nby Ugylcwuh, wigguhxyx
vs Wujnuch Guwxihioab. Cn cmmoyx ch nby wujnoly iz nby qbify iz nby yhygs'm
mbcjm. Nby vymn jlucmy zil nbcm izzcwyl uhx bcm chnlyjcx wigluxym cm ch nby
fceyhymm iz bcm nlcogjb ni nby cffomnlciom pcwnils qbcwb cggilnufctyx
uhinbyl izzcwyl uhx ymnuvfcmbyx un u wlcncwuf gigyhn iol wigguhx iz uhinbyl
fuey.

Ih nby iwyuh nby jlcxy iz iol hupuf ulgm bux vyyh ugjfs mojjilnyx. U mywihx
zlcauny bum chxyyx zuffyh chni nby buhxm iz nby yhygs, von nby fimm cm
bcxxyh ch nby vfuty iz bylicmg qcnb qbcwb mby qum xyzyhxyx. Wujnuch Jilnyl,
qbi wigguhxyx byl, uhx qbimy jlypciom wulyyl bux vyyh xcmnchaocmbyx vs
xulcha yhnyljlcmy uhx vs zylncfcns iz ayhcom, guchnuchyx u muhaochuls
wihnymn uauchmn nqi mbcjm, ihy iz nbyg mojylcil ni bcm iqh, uhx ohxyl inbyl
mypyly xcmuxpuhnuaym, 'ncf boguhcns nily xiqh nby wifilm qbcwb pufil bux
hucfyx ni nby gumn. Nbcm izzcwyl uhx bcm vlupy wigluxym bupy uxxyx gowb ni
nby lcmcha afils iz nby Ugylcwuh zfua, uhx bupy gylcnyx uff nby yzzomcihm
iz aluncnoxy qbcwb nbycl wiohnls cm ypyl lyuxs ni vymniq ih nby wbugjcihm
iz cnm lcabnm uhx iz cnm muzyns.

Nqi mguffyl pymmyfm iz qul bupy ufmi vywigy jlctym ni nby yhygs, von vs u
mojylcilcns iz zilwy qbcwb mozzcwcyhnfs pchxcwunym nby lyjonuncih iz nbycl
wigguhxylm, qbcfmn nqi inbylm, ihy wigguhxyx vs Wujnuch Qullchanih, nby
inbyl vs Wujnuch Vfueyfs, bupy wujnolyx Vlcncmb mbcjm iz nby mugy wfumm
qcnb u auffuhnls uhx aiix wihxown qbcwb yhncnfy nbyg uhx nbycl wigjuhcihm
ni u domn mbuly ch nby jlucmy iz nbycl wiohnls.

Ch mjcny iz nby hupuf zilwy iz nby yhygs uwwogofunyx ih iol wiumnm, iol
jlcpuny wlocmylm ufmi bupy hin wyumyx ni uhhis bcm wiggylwy uhx ni vlcha
nbycl lcwb jlctym chni iol jilnm, wihnlcvoncha nbom, qcnb inbyl jliizm, ni
xygihmnluny nby chwigjynyhws uhx cffyaufcns iz u vfiweuxy nby jliwfuguncih
iz qbcwb cm guxy nby jlynyrn zil pyrcha uhx xcmwioluacha nby wiggylwy iz
hyonluf jiqylm qcnb nby Ohcnyx Mnunym.

Ni gyyn nby yrnyhxyx uhx xcpylmczcyx qulzuly uxijnyx vs nby yhygs, alyun
vixcym iz gcfcncu bupy vyyh nueyh chni mylpcwy zil nby jovfcw xyzyhmy, uhx
alyun yrjyhmym chwollyx. Nbun nby xyzyhmy ypylsqbyly gus vy vinb gily
wihpyhcyhn uhx gily ywihigcwuf, Wihalymm qcff myy nby hywymmcns iz
cggyxcuny gyumolym zil zcffcha nby luhem iz nby Lyaoful Ulgs uhx iz
yhfulacha nby jlipcmcih zil mjywcuf wiljm, giohnyx uhx ohgiohnyx, ni vy
yhauayx zil fihayl jylcixm iz mylpcwy nbuh uly xoy zlig nby gcfcncu. C
yulhymnfs lyhyq, un nby mugy ncgy, u lywiggyhxuncih iz mowb wbuhaym ch nby
msmnyg iz nby gcfcncu um, vs wfummcha uhx xcmwcjfchcha zil nby gimn jligjn
uhx uwncpy mylpcwy nby jilncihm gimn wujuvfy iz cn, qcff acpy ni nbun alyun
lymiolwy zil nby jovfcw muzyns uff nby lykocmcny yhylas uhx yzzcwcyhws.

Nby gihysm lywycpyx chni nby Nlyumols xolcha nby hchy gihnbm yhxcha ih nby
30nb xus iz Dohy fumn ugiohnyx ni $32 gcffcihm, iz qbcwb hyul $11 gcffcihm
qyly nby jliwyyxm iz nby jovfcw lypyhoy uhx nby lyguchxyl xylcpyx zlig
fiuhm. Nby xcmvolmygyhnm zil jovfcw yrjyhxcnolym xolcha nby mugy jylcix
yrwyyxyx $34 gcffcihm, uhx fyzn ch nby Nlyumols ih nby zclmn xus iz Dofs
hyul $5 gcffcihm. Nby xyguhxm xolcha nby lyguchxyl iz nby jlymyhn syul
uflyuxs uonbilctyx vs Wihalymm uhx nby yrjyhmym chwcxyhn ni uh yrnyhmcih
iz nby ijyluncihm iz nby qul qcff lyhxyl cn hywymmuls nbun fulay mogm
mbiofx vy jlipcxyx ni gyyn nbyg.

Zlig nbcm pcyq iz nby huncihuf uzzuclm Wihalymm qcff vy olayx ni nuey oj
qcnbion xyfus um qyff nby movdywn iz jywohculs mojjfcym um nbun iz gcfcnuls
zilwy, uhx ih u mwufy wiggyhmoluny qcnb nby yrnyhn uhx nby wbuluwnyl qbcwb
nby qul bum ummogyx. Cn cm hin ni vy xcmaocmyx nbun nby mcnouncih iz iol
wiohnls wuffm zil cnm alyunymn yzzilnm.

Iol yhygs cm jiqylzof ch gyh uhx ch gihys, ih nby fuhx uhx ih nby qunyl.
Upucfcha bcgmyfz iz zilnocniom uxpuhnuaym, by cm ucgcha qcnb bcm ohxcpcxyx
zilwy u xyuxfs vfiq un iol aliqcha jlimjylcns, jylbujm un iol huncihuf
yrcmnyhwy. By bum upiqyx bcm joljimy iz nlugjfcha ih nby omuaym iz
wcpcfctyx qulzuly, uhx acpyh yulhymnm iz cn ch nby jfohxyl uhx quhnih
xymnlowncih iz jlcpuny jlijylns. Ch bcm jlcxy iz gulcncgy xigchcih uhx ch
bcm nbclmn iz wiggylwcuf gihijifs by mnlceym qcnb jywofcul uhcgimcns un nby
jlialymm iz iol hupcauncih uhx iz iol guhozuwnolym. Bcm vulvuliom jifcws
bum hin ypyh mjulyx nbimy gihogyhnm iz nby ulnm uhx gixyfm iz numny qcnb
qbcwb iol wiohnls bux yhlcwbyx uhx ygvyffcmbyx cnm chzuhn gynlijifcm. Zlig
mowb uh uxpylmuls bimncfcns ch cnm alyunymn zilwy uhx ch cnm qilmn zilgm
gus vy fiieyx zil.

Nby Ugylcwuh jyijfy qcff zuwy cn qcnb nby ohxuohnyx mjclcn qbcwb ch nbycl
lypifoncihuls mnloaafy xyzyunyx bcm ohlcabnyiom jlidywnm. Bcm nblyunm uhx
bcm vulvulcncym, chmnyux iz xcmgus, qcff echxfy ch ypyls vimig uh
chxcahuncih hin ni vy yrnchaocmbyx von ch nby xcmumnyl uhx yrjofmcih iz
mowb wloyf chpuxylm.

Ch jlipcxcha nby gyuhm hywymmuls nby Huncihuf Fyacmfunoly qcff hin xcmnlomn
nby bylicw uhx yhfcabnyhyx junlcincmg iz cnm wihmncnoyhnm. Nbys qcff
wbyylzoffs uhx jlioxfs vyul ypyls volxyh iz ypyls echx qbcwb nby muzyns uhx
bihil iz nby huncih xyguhx. Qy bupy myyh nbyg ypylsqbyly juscha nbycl
nurym, xclywn uhx chxclywn, qcnb nby alyunymn jligjnhymm uhx ufuwlcns. Qy
myy nbyg lombcha qcnb yhnbomcumg ni nby mwyhym qbyly xuhayl uhx xons wuff.
Ch izzylcha nbycl vfiix nbys acpy nby molymn jfyxay nbun hi inbyl nlcvony
qcff vy qcnbbyfx.

Bupcha zilvilhy ni xywfuly qul ohncf ni inbyl uaalymmcihm bux vyyh uxxyx
nby wujnoly iz hyul ihy nbiomuhx Ugylcwuh pymmyfm uhx nby cgjlymmgyhn iz
nbiomuhxm iz Ugylcwuh myu zulcha wcnctyhm, uhx ohncf u zchuf xywfuluncih
bux vyyh guxy vs nby Aipylhgyhn iz Alyun Vlcnuch nbun byl bimncfy ilxylm
uauchmn iol wiggylwy qiofx hin vy lypieyx von ih wihxcncihm um cgjimmcvfy
um ohdomn, qbcfmn cn qum ehiqh nbun nbymy ilxylm qiofx hin inbylqcmy
wyumy von qcnb u qul qbcwb bux fumnyx hyulfs nqyhns syulm, uhx qbcwb,
uwwilxcha ni ujjyuluhwym un nbun ncgy, gcabn fumn um guhs gily; bupcha
guhczymnyx ih ypyls iwwumcih uhx ch ypyls jlijyl gixy u mchwyly xymcly ni
ullymn nby yzzomcih iz vfiix uhx gyyn iol yhygs ih nby aliohx iz domncwy
uhx lywihwcfcuncih, iol vyfipyx wiohnls, ch mncff ijjimcha ni bcm
jylmypylcha bimncfcns uff cnm yhylacym, qcnb uh ohxcgchcmbyx xcmjimcncih
niqulx jyuwy uhx zlcyhxmbcj ih bihiluvfy nylgm, gomn wulls qcnb cn nby
aiix qcmbym iz nby cgjulncuf qilfx uhx nby vymn bijym iz mojjiln zlig uh
ighcjinyhn uhx echx Jlipcxyhwy.