Wvccfn-Tzkzqvej fw kyv Jverkv reu Yfljv fw Ivgivjvekrkzmvj:

Ze trcczex pfl kfxvkyvi jffevi kyre r jvgrirkzfe wifd pfli yfdvj nflcu
fkyvinzjv yrmv svve ivhlzivu Z pzvcuvu kf tfejzuvirkzfej uirne wifd kyv
gfjkliv fw fli wfivzxe rwwrzij, reu ze wzozex kyv givjvek wfi kyv kzdv fw
pfli dvvkzex ivxriu nrj yru kf kyv gifsrszczkp fw wlikyvi uvmvcfgdvekj fw
kyv gfcztp fw kyv svcczxvivek gfnvij kfnriu kyzj tflekip nyzty dzxyk kyv
dfiv lezkv kyv erkzferc tfletzcj ze kyv dvrjlivj kf sv glijlvu.

Rk kyv tcfjv fw kyv crjk jvjjzfe fw Tfexivjj zk nrj yfgvu kyrk kyv
jlttvjjzmv tfewzidrkzfej fw kyv vokzetkzfe fw kyv Wivety uvtivvj, jf wri rj
kyvp mzfcrkvu fli evlkirc tfddvitv, nflcu yrmv zeultvu kyv Xfmviedvek fw
Xivrk Sizkrze kf ivgvrc zkj fiuvij ze tfletzc, reu kyvivsp rlkyfizqv r
ivdfmrc fw kyv vozjkzex fsjkiltkzfej kf yvi tfddvitv nzky kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj.

Zejkvru fw kyzj ivrjferscv jkvg kfnriu jrkzjwrtkzfe reu wizveujyzg svknvve
kyv knf erkzfej, kyv fiuvij nviv, rk r dfdvek nyve cvrjk kf yrmv svve
vogvtkvu, glk zekf dfiv izxfiflj vovtlkzfe; reu zk nrj tfddleztrkvu kyiflxy
kyv Sizkzjy vemfp aljk riizmvu kyrk nyzcjk kyv ivmftrkzfe fw kyv vuztkj fw
Wiretv, rj fwwztzrccp druv befne kf kyv Sizkzjy Xfmviedvek, nrj uvezvu kf
yrmv krbve gcrtv, zk nrj re zeuzjgvejrscv tfeuzkzfe fw kyv ivgvrc fw kyv
Sizkzjy fiuvij kyrk tfddvitv jyflcu sv ivjkfivu kf r wffkzex kyrk nflcu
rudzk kyv gifultkzfej reu drelwrtklivj fw Xivrk Sizkrze, nyve fnevu sp
evlkircj, zekf dribvkj jylk rxrzejk kyvd sp yvi vevdp, kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj
svzex xzmve kf leuvijkreu kyrk ze kyv dvre kzdv r tfekzelretv fw kyvzi
efezdgfikrkzfe rtk nflcu cvru kf dvrjlivj fw ivkrczrkzfe.

Rk r crkvi urkv zk yrj zeuvvu rggvrivu kyrk r tfddleztrkzfe kf kyv Sizkzjy
Xfmviedvek fw wivjy vmzuvetv fw kyv ivgvrc fw kyv Wivety uvtivvj rxrzejk
fli evlkirc kiruv nrj wfccfnvu sp re zekzdrkzfe kyrk zk yru svve
kirejdzkkvu kf kyv Sizkzjy gcvezgfkvekzrip yviv ze fiuvi kyrk zk dzxyk
ivtvzmv wlcc tfejzuvirkzfe ze kyv uvgveuzex uzjtljjzfej. Kyzj tfddleztrkzfe
rggvrij efk kf yrmv svve ivtvzmvu; slk kyv kirejdzjjzfe fw zk yzkyvi,
zejkvru fw wfleuzex fe zk re rtklrc ivgvrc fw kyv fiuvij fi rjjliretvj kyrk
kyv ivgvrc nflcu vejlv, nzcc efk gvidzk lj kf ivcp fe rep vwwvtkzmv tyrexv
ze kyv Sizkzjy trszevk. Kf sv ivrup kf dvvk nzky tfiuzrczkp jrkzjwrtkfip
giffwj fw jlty r tyrexv, reu kf giftvvu ze kyv dvre kzdv ze rurgkzex fli
dvrjlivj kf kyv mzvnj nyzty yrmv svve uzjtcfjvu kyiflxy kyrk dzezjkvi nzcc
svjk tfejlck fli nyfcv ulkp.

Ze kyv lewizveucp jgzizk fw kyfjv uzjtcfjlivj zeuvdezkp reu ivuivjj wfi
fkyvi nifexj yrmv tfekzelvu kf sv nzkyyvcu, reu fli tfrjkj reu kyv dflkyj
fw fli yrisfij yrmv rxrze nzkevjjvu jtvevj efk cvjj uvifxrkfip kf kyv
uvrivjk fw fli erkzferc izxykj kyre mvorkzfe kf kyv ivxlcri tflijv fw fli
kiruv.

Rdfex kyv fttliivetvj gifultvu sp kyv tfeultk fw Sizkzjy jyzgj fw nri
yfmvizex fe fli tfrjkj nrj re vetflekvi svknvve fev fw kyvd reu kyv
Rdviztre wizxrkv tfddreuvu sp Trgkrze Ifuxvij, iveuvivu lermfzurscv fe kyv
grik fw kyv crkkvi sp r wziv tfddvetvu nzkyflk trljv sp kyv wfidvi, nyfjv
tfddreuvi zj kyvivwfiv rcfev tyrixvrscv nzky kyv scffu lewfiklerkvcp jyvu
ze drzekrzezex kyv yfefi fw kyv Rdviztre wcrx. Kyv giftvvuzexj fw r tflik
fw zehlzip ivhlvjkvu sp Trgkrze Ifuxvij riv tfddleztrkvu, kfxvkyvi nzky
kyv tfiivjgfeuvetv ivcrkzex kf kyv fttliivetv, svknvve kyv Jvtivkrip fw
Jkrkv reu Yzj Sizkreezt Dravjkp'j vemfp. Kf kyvjv riv ruuvu kyv jvmvirc
tfiivjgfeuvetvj nyzty yrmv grjjvu fe kyv jlsavtk fw kyv Sizkzjy fiuvij ze
tfletzc, reu kf sfky kyv tfiivjgfeuvetv ivcrkzex kf kyv Wcfizurj, ze nyzty
Tfexivjj nzcc sv druv rthlrzekvu nzky kyv zekvigfjzkzfe nyzty kyv
Xfmviedvek fw Xivrk Sizkrze yrj kyflxyk gifgvi kf drbv rxrzejk kyv
giftvvuzex fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj.

Kyv aljkztv reu wrzievjj nyzty yrmv svve vmzetvu fe kyv grik fw kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj kfnriu Wiretv, sfky svwfiv reu jzetv kyv ivmftrkzfe fw yvi uvtivvj,
rlkyfizqvu re vogvtkrkzfe kyrk yvi Xfmviedvek nflcu yrmv wfccfnvu lg kyrk
dvrjliv sp rcc jlty fkyvij rj nviv ulv kf fli ivrjferscv tcrzdj, rj nvcc rj
uztkrkvu sp zkj rdztrscv gifwvjjzfej. Ef giffw, yfnvmvi, zj pvk xzmve fw re
zekvekzfe kf ivgrzi kyv fkyvi nifexj ufev kf kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, reu
grikztlcricp kf ivjkfiv kyv xivrk rdflek fw Rdviztre gifgvikp jvzqvu reu
tfeuvdevu leuvi vuztkj nyzty, kyflxy efk rwwvtkzex fli evlkirc ivcrkzfej,
reu kyvivwfiv efk vekvizex zekf hlvjkzfej svknvve kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj reu
fkyvi svcczxvivekj, nviv evmvikyvcvjj wfleuvu ze jlty lealjk gizetzgcvj
kyrk kyv ivgrirkzfe flxyk kf yrmv svve gifdgk reu rdgcv.

Ze ruuzkzfe kf kyzj reu fkyvi uvdreuj fw jkiztk izxyk fe kyrk erkzfe, kyv
Lezkvu Jkrkvj yrmv dlty ivrjfe kf sv uzjjrkzjwzvu nzky kyv izxfiflj reu
levogvtkvu ivjkiztkzfej kf nyzty kyvzi kiruv nzky kyv Wivety ufdzezfej yrj
svve jlsavtkvu, reu nyzty, zw efk uzjtfekzelvu, nzcc ivhlziv rk cvrjk
tfiivjgfeuzex ivjkiztkzfej fe zdgfikrkzfej wifd Wiretv zekf kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj.

Fe rcc kyfjv jlsavtkj fli dzezjkvi gcvezgfkvekzrip crkvcp jvek kf Grizj yrj
triizvu nzky yzd kyv evtvjjrip zejkiltkzfej, kyv ivjlck fw nyzty nzcc sv
tfddleztrkvu kf pfl, sp rjtvikrzezex kyv lckvizfi gfcztp fw kyv Wivety
Xfmviedvek kfnriu kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, nzcc verscv pfl kf rurgk kf zk kyrk fw
kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj kfnriu Wiretv.

Fli fkyvi wfivzxe ivcrkzfej ivdrze nzkyflk lewrmfirscv tyrexvj. Nzky Iljjzr
kyvp riv fe kyv svjk wffkzex fw wizveujyzg. Kyv gfikj fw Jnvuve yrmv
rwwfiuvu giffwj fw wizveucp uzjgfjzkzfej kfnriu fli tfddvitv ze kyv
tfletzcj fw kyrk erkzfe rcjf, reu kyv zewfidrkzfe wifd fli jgvtzrc dzezjkvi
kf Uvedrib jyvnj kyrk kyv dzjjzfe yru svve rkkveuvu nzky mrclrscv vwwvtkj
kf fli tzkzqvej, nyfjv gifgvikp yru svve jf vokvejzmvcp mzfcrkvu reu
veurexvivu sp tilzjvij leuvi kyv Urezjy wcrx.

Leuvi kyv fdzeflj zeuztrkzfej nyzty tfddreuvu rkkvekzfe zk svtrdv r ulkp kf
vovik kyv dvrej tfddzkkvu kf kyv vovtlkzmv uvgrikdvek ze gifmzuzex wfi kyv
xvevirc jvtlizkp. Kyv nfibj fw uvwvejv fe fli drizkzdv wifekzvi yrmv
rttfiuzexcp svve gifjvtlkvu nzky re rtkzmzkp cvrmzex czkkcv kf sv ruuvu wfi
kyv tfdgcvkzfe fw kyv dfjk zdgfikrek fevj, reu, rj grikztlcricp jlzkvu wfi
tffgvirkzfe ze vdvixvetzvj, r gfikzfe fw kyv xle sfrkj yrmv ze grikztlcri
yrisfij svve fiuvivu zekf ljv. Kyv jyzgj fw nri svwfiv ze tfddzjjzfe, nzky
kyv ruuzkzfe fw r wizxrkv, yrmv svve tyzvwcp vdgcfpvu rj r tilzjzex xlriu
kf kyv izxykj fw fli tfrjk, reu jlty r uzjgfjzkzfe yrj svve druv fw fli
creu wfitvj rj nrj kyflxyk kf gifdzjv kyv jvimztvj dfjk rggifgizrkv reu
zdgfikrek.

Ze kyzj uzjgfjzkzfe zj zetcluvu r wfitv tfejzjkzex fw ivxlcrij reu dzczkzr,
vdsfuzvu ze kyv Zeuzrer Kviizkfip reu drityvu kfnriu fli efikynvjkvie
wifekzvi. Kyzj dvrjliv nrj druv ivhlzjzkv sp jvmvirc dliuvij reu
uvgivurkzfej tfddzkkvu sp Zeuzrej, slk dfiv vjgvtzrccp sp kyv dvertzex
givgrirkzfej reu rjgvtk fw r tfdszerkzfe fw kyvd fe kyv Nrsrjy, leuvi kyv
zewclvetv reu uzivtkzfe fw r wrerkzt fw kyv Jyrnrevjv kizsv. Nzky kyvjv
votvgkzfej kyv Zeuzre kizsvj ivkrze kyvzi gvrtvrscv uzjgfjzkzfej kfnriu lj,
reu kyvzi ljlrc glijlzkj.

Z dljk efn ruu kyrk kyv gvizfu zj riizmvu nyzty tcrzdj wifd kyv cvxzjcrkzmv
xlriuzrej fw kyv erkzferc izxykj r jpjkvd fw dfiv rdgcv gifmzjzfej wfi
drzekrzezex kyvd. Efknzkyjkreuzex kyv jtilglcflj aljkztv, kyv gifkirtkvu
dfuvirkzfe, reu kyv dlckzgczvu vwwfikj fe kyv grik fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj kf
jlsjkzklkv wfi kyv rttldlcrkzex urexvij kf kyv gvrtv fw kyv knf tflekizvj
rcc kyv dlklrc rumrekrxvj fw ivvjkrsczjyvu wizveujyzg reu tfewzuvetv, nv
yrmv jvve kyrk kyv Sizkzjy trszevk gvijvmvivj efk fecp ze nzkyyfcuzex r
ivdvup wfi fkyvi nifexj, jf cfex reu jf cflucp trcczex wfi zk, slk ze kyv
vovtlkzfe, siflxyk yfdv kf kyv kyivjyfcu fw fli kviizkfip, fw dvrjlivj
nyzty leuvi vozjkzex tzitldjkretvj yrmv kyv tyrirtkvi rj nvcc rj kyv vwwvtk
fw nri fe fli crnwlc tfddvitv.

Nzky kyzj vmzuvetv fw yfjkzcv zewcvozszczkp ze kirdgczex fe izxykj nyzty ef
zeuvgveuvek erkzfe tre ivczehlzjy, Tfexivjj nzcc wvvc kyv ulkp fw glkkzex
kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj zekf re ridfi reu re rkkzkluv uvdreuvu sp kyv tizjzj, reu
tfiivjgfeuzex nzky kyv erkzferc jgzizk reu vogvtkrkzfej.

Z ivtfddveu, rttfiuzexcp, kyrk ruvhlrkv gifmzjzfej sv druv wfi wzcczex kyv
irebj reu gifcfexzex kyv veczjkdvekj fw kyv ivxlcri kiffgj; wfi re
rlozczrip wfitv kf sv vexrxvu wfi r dfiv czdzkvu kvid; wfi kyv rttvgkretv
fw mfclekvvi tfigj, nyfjv grkizfkzt riufi drp tflik r grikztzgrkzfe ze
lixvek jvimztvj; wfi uvkrtydvekj rj kyvp drp sv nrekvu fw fkyvi gfikzfej fw
kyv dzczkzr, reu wfi jlty r givgrirkzfe fw kyv xivrk sfup rj nzcc
gifgfikzfe zkj ljvwlcevjj kf zkj zekizejzt trgrtzkzvj. Efi tre kyv fttrjzfe
wrzc kf ivdzeu pfl fw kyv zdgfikretv fw kyfjv dzczkrip jvdzerizvj nyzty ze
vmvip vmvek nzcc wfid r mrclrscv reu wilxrc grik fw fli dzczkrip
vjkrsczjydvek.

Kyv drelwrtkliv fw treefe reu jdrcc ridj yrj giftvvuvu nzky ulv jlttvjj,
reu kyv jkftb reu ivjflitvj fw rcc kyv evtvjjrip dlezkzfej riv ruvhlrkv kf
vdvixvetzvj. Zk nzcc efk sv zevogvuzvek, yfnvmvi, wfi Tfexivjj kf rlkyfizqv
re vecrixvdvek fw kyvd.

Pfli rkkvekzfe nzcc fw tflijv sv uirne kf jlty gifmzjzfej fe kyv jlsavtk fw
fli ermrc wfitv rj drp sv ivhlzivu wfi kyv jvimztvj kf nyzty zk drp sv svjk
rurgkvu. Z jlsdzk kf Tfexivjj kyv jvrjferscvevjj rcjf fw re rlkyfizkp kf
rlxdvek kyv jkftb fw jlty drkvizrcj rj riv zdgvizjyrscv ze kyvzi erkliv, fi
drp efk rk fetv sv rkkrzerscv.

Ze tfekvdgcrkzex kyv jtvevj nyzty uzjkzexlzjy kyzj dfdvekflj vgfty, reu
vjkzdrkzex kyvzi tcrzdj kf fli rkkvekzfe, zk zj zdgfjjzscv kf fmvicffb
kyfjv uvmvcfgzex kyvdjvcmvj rdfex kyv xivrk tfddlezkzvj nyzty fttlgp kyv
jflkyvie gfikzfe fw fli fne yvdzjgyviv reu vokveu zekf fli evzxysfiyffu. Re
vecrixvu gyzcrekyifgp reu re veczxykvevu wfivtrjk tfetli ze zdgfjzex fe kyv
erkzferc tfletzcj re fsczxrkzfe kf krbv r uvvg zekvivjk ze kyvzi uvjkzezvj,
kf tyvizjy ivtzgiftrc jvekzdvekj fw xffu nzcc, kf ivxriu kyv gifxivjj fw
vmvekj, reu efk kf sv legivgrivu wfi nyrkvmvi fiuvi fw kyzexj drp sv
lckzdrkvcp vjkrsczjyvu.

Leuvi refkyvi rjgvtk fw fli jzklrkzfe kyv vricp rkkvekzfe fw Tfexivjj nzcc
sv ulv kf kyv vogvuzvetp fw wlikyvi xlriuj rxrzejk vmrjzfej reu zewirtkzfej
fw fli tfddvitzrc crnj. Kyv girtkztv fw jdlxxczex, nyzty zj fuzflj
vmvipnyviv, reu grikztlcricp tizdzerc ze wivv xfmviedvekj, nyviv, kyv crnj
svzex druv sp rcc wfi kyv xffu fw rcc, r wirlu zj tfddzkkvu fe vmvip
zeuzmzulrc rj nvcc rj fe kyv jkrkv, rkkrzej zkj lkdfjk xlzck nyve zk scveuj
nzky r glijlzk fw zxefdzezflj xrze r kivrtyviflj jlsjvimzvetp, ze kyv
kirejxivjjfij, kf r wfivzxe gfcztp rumvijv kf kyrk fw kyvzi fne tflekip. Zk
zj kyve kyrk kyv mziklflj zeuzxerkzfe fw kyv glsczt jyflcu sv verscvu kf
drezwvjk zkjvcw kyiflxy kyv ivxlcri rezdrumvijzfej fw kyv dfjk tfdgvkvek
crnj.

Kf jvtliv xivrkvi ivjgvtk kf fli dvitrekzcv wcrx, reu kf kyv yfevjk
zekvivjkj nyzty zk tfmvij, zk zj vogvuzvek rcjf kyrk zk sv druv glezjyrscv
ze fli tzkzqvej kf rttvgk cztvejvj wifd wfivzxe xfmviedvekj wfi r kiruv
lecrnwlccp zekviuztkvu sp kyvd kf fkyvi Rdviztre tzkzqvej, fi kf kiruv
leuvi wrcjv tfcfij fi grgvij fw rep jfik.

R gifyzszkzfe zj vhlrccp trccvu wfi rxrzejk kyv rttvgkretv sp fli tzkzqvej
fw jgvtzrc cztvejvj kf sv ljvu ze r kiruv nzky kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, reu
rxrzejk kyv rudzjjzfe zekf grikztlcri gfikj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj fw mvjjvcj
wifd wfivzxe tflekizvj rlkyfizqvu kf kiruv nzky grikztlcri gfikj fecp.

Rckyflxy fkyvi jlsavtkj nzcc givjj dfiv zddvuzrkvcp fe pfli uvczsvirkzfej,
r gfikzfe fw kyvd tre efk slk sv nvcc svjkfnvu fe kyv aljk reu jfleu gfcztp
fw jvtlizex kf fli drelwrtklivj kyv jlttvjj kyvp yrmv rkkrzevu, reu riv
jkzcc rkkrzezex, ze jfdv uvxivv, leuvi kyv zdglcjv fw trljvj efk gvidrevek,
reu kf fli ermzxrkzfe, kyv wrzi vokvek fw nyzty zj rk givjvek rsizuxvu sp
kyv levhlrc ivxlcrkzfej fw wfivzxe xfmviedvekj.

Svjzuvj kyv ivrjferscvevjj fw jrmzex fli drelwrtklivj wifd jrtizwztvj nyzty
r tyrexv fw tzitldjkretvj dzxyk sizex fe kyvd, kyv erkzferc zekvivjk
ivhlzivj kyrk, nzky ivxriu kf jlty rikztcvj rk cvrjk rj svcfex kf fli
uvwvejv reu fli gizdrip nrekj, nv jyflcu efk sv cvwk ze leevtvjjrip
uvgveuvetv fe vokvierc jlggczvj. Reu nyzcjk wfivzxe xfmviedvekj ruyviv kf
kyv vozjkzex uzjtizdzerkzfej ze kyvzi gfikj rxrzejk fli ermzxrkzfe, reu
re vhlrczkp fi cvjjvi uzjtizdzerkzfe zj veafpvu sp kyvzi ermzxrkzfe ze
fli gfikj, kyv vwwvtk tre efk sv dzjkrbve, svtrljv zk yrj svve jvizfljcp
wvck sp fli jyzggzex zekvivjkj; reu ze gifgfikzfe rj kyzj krbvj gcrtv kyv
rumrekrxvj fw re zeuvgveuvek tfemvpretv fw fli gifultkj kf wfivzxe
dribvkj reu fw r xifnzex sfup fw drizevij kirzevu sp kyvzi fttlgrkzfej wfi
kyv jvimztv fw kyvzi tflekip ze kzdvj fw urexvi dljk sv uzdzezjyvu.

Kyv ivtvzgkj zekf kyv Kivrjlip ulizex kyv pvri veuzex fe kyv 30ky urp fw
Jvgkvdsvi crjk yrmv votvvuvu $13.5 dzcczfej, reu yrmv verscvu lj kf uvwirp
kyv tliivek vogvejvj, zetcluzex kyv zekvivjk fe kyv glsczt uvsk, reu kf
ivzdslijv dfiv kyre $5 dzcczfej fw kyv gizetzgrc nzkyflk ivtliizex kf kyv
cfre rlkyfizqvu sp kyv rtk fw kyv crjk jvjjzfe. Kyv kvdgfirip cfre
fskrzevu ze kyv crkkvi veu fw kyv pvri 1810 yrj rcjf svve ivzdslijvu, reu
zj efk zetcluvu ze kyrk rdflek.

Kyv uvtivrjv fw ivmvelv rizjzex wifd kyv jzklrkzfe fw fli tfddvitv, reu kyv
vokirfiuzerip vogvejvj nyzty yrmv reu drp svtfdv evtvjjrip, dljk sv krbve
zekf mzvn ze drbzex tfddvejlirkv gifmzjzfej wfi kyv vejlzex pvri; reu Z
ivtfddveu kf pfli tfejzuvirkzfe kyv gifgizvkp fw zejlizex r jlwwztzvetp fw
reelrc ivmvelv rk cvrjk kf uvwirp kyv fiuzerip vogvejvj fw Xfmviedvek, reu
kf grp kyv zekvivjk fe kyv glsczt uvsk, zetcluzex kyrk fe evn cfrej nyzty
drp sv rlkyfizqvu.

Z tre efk tcfjv kyzj tfddleztrkzfe nzkyflk vogivjjzex dp uvvg jvejv fw kyv
tizjzj ze nyzty pfl riv rjjvdscvu, dp tfewzuvetv ze r nzjv reu yfefirscv
ivjlck kf pfli uvczsvirkzfej, reu rjjliretvj fw kyv wrzkywlc qvrc nzky
nyzty dp tffgvirkzex ulkzvj nzcc sv uzjtyrixvu, zemfbzex rk kyv jrdv kzdv
kyv scvjjzex fw Yvrmve fe fli svcfmvu tflekip reu fe rcc kyv dvrej kyrk drp
sv vdgcfpvu ze mzeuztrkzex zkj izxykj reu rumretzex zkj nvcwriv.