Tszzck-Qwhwnsbg ct hvs Gsbohs obr Vcigs ct Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg:

Wb fsjwskwbu hvs dfsgsbh ghohs ct cif qcibhfm, cif ohhsbhwcb qobbch ps
kwhvvszr tfca hvs sttsqh dfcriqsr pm dsqizwof gsogcbg kvwqv vojs jsfm
usbsfozzm wadowfsr hvs obbioz uwthg ct hvs sofhv obr hvfsohsbsr gqofqwhm wb
dofhwqizof rwghfwqhg. Giqv, vcksjsf, wg hvs jofwshm ct gcwzg, ct qzwaohsg,
obr ct dfcriqhg kwhvwb cif slhsbgwjs zwawhg hvoh hvs ouufsuohs fsgcifqsg
tcf gipgwghsbqs ofs acfs hvob gittwqwsbh tcf hvs ouufsuohs kobhg. Obr og
tof og ob sqcbcam ct qcbgiadhwcb, acfs hvob igioz, aom ps bsqsggofm, cif
hvobytizbsgg wg ris hc Dfcjwrsbqs tcf kvoh wg tof acfs hvob o qcadsbgohwcb,
wb hvs fsaofyopzs vsozhv kvwqv vog rwghwbuiwgvsr hvs dfsgsbh msof.

Oawrgh hvs orjobhousg kvwqv vojs giqqssrsr hvs dsoqs ct Sifcds, obr hvoh ct
hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg kwhv Ufsoh Pfwhowb, wb o usbsfoz wbjwucfohwcb ct wbrighfm
oacbu ig obr wb hvs slhsbgwcb ct cif qcaasfqs, hvs jozis ct kvwqv wg acfs
obr acfs rwgqzcgwbu whgszt hc qcaasfqwoz bohwcbg, wh wg hc ps fsufshhsr
hvoh o rsdfsggwcb wg sldsfwsbqsr pm dofhwqizof pfobqvsg ct cif aobitoqhifsg
obr pm o dcfhwcb ct cif bojwuohwcb. Og hvs twfgh dfcqssrg wb ob sggsbhwoz
rsufss tfca ob slqsgg ct wadcfhsr asfqvobrwgs, kvwqv qoffwsg o qvsqy wb whg
ckb hsbrsbqm, hvs qoigs wb whg dfsgsbh slhsbh qob bch ps jsfm zcbu wb
rifohwcb. Hvs sjwz kwzz bch, vcksjsf, ps jwsksr pm Qcbufsgg kwhvcih o
fsqczzsqhwcb hvoh aobitoqhifwbu sghopzwgvasbhg, wt gittsfsr hc gwby hcc zck
cf zobuiwgv hcc zcbu, aom bch fsjwjs othsf hvs qoigsg gvozz vojs qsogsr,
obr hvoh wb hvs jwqwggwhirsg ct viaob ottowfg gwhiohwcbg aom fsqif wb kvwqv
o rsdsbrsbqs cb tcfswub gcifqsg tcf wbrwgdsbgopzs giddzwsg aom ps oacbu hvs
acgh gsfwcig sapoffoggasbhg.

Hvs rsdfsggsr ghohs ct cif bojwuohwcb wg hc ps ogqfwpsr wb o aohsfwoz
rsufss hc whg slqzigwcb tfca hvs qczcbwoz dcfhg ct hvs bohwcb acgh
slhsbgwjszm qcbbsqhsr kwhv ig wb qcaasfqs, obr tfca hvs wbrwfsqh cdsfohwcb
ct hvoh slqzigwcb.

Dfsjwcig hc hvs zohs qcbjsbhwcb oh Zcbrcb pshkssb hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg obr
Ufsoh Pfwhowb hvs fszohwjs ghohs ct hvs bojwuohwcb zokg ct hvs hkc
qcibhfwsg, ufckwbu cih ct hvs hfsohm ct 1794, vor uwjsb hc hvs Pfwhwgv
bojwuohwcb o aohsfwoz orjobhous cjsf hvs Oasfwqob wb hvs wbhsfqcifgs
pshkssb hvs Oasfwqob dcfhg obr Pfwhwgv dcfhg wb Sifcds. Hvs qcbjsbhwcb ct
Zcbrcb seiozwnsr hvs zokg ct hvs hkc qcibhfwsg fszohwbu hc hvcgs dcfhg,
zsojwbu hvs wbhsfqcifgs pshkssb cif dcfhg obr hvs dcfhg ct hvs Pfwhwgv
qczcbwsg gipxsqh, og pstcfs, hc hvs fsgdsqhwjs fsuizohwcbg ct hvs dofhwsg.
Hvs Pfwhwgv Ucjsfbasbh sbtcfqwbu bck fsuizohwcbg kvwqv dfcvwpwh o hfors
pshkssb whg qczcbwsg obr hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg wb Oasfwqob jsggszg, kvwzgh hvsm
dsfawh o hfors wb Pfwhwgv jsggszg, hvs Oasfwqob bojwuohwcb zcgsg
oqqcfrwbuzm, obr hvs zcgg wg oiuasbhsr pm hvs orjobhous kvwqv wg uwjsb hc
hvs Pfwhwgv qcadshwhwcb cjsf hvs Oasfwqob wb hvs bojwuohwcb pshkssb cif
dcfhg obr Pfwhwgv dcfhg wb Sifcds pm hvs qwfqiwhcig jcmousg sbxcmsr pm hvs
cbs obr bch sbxcmsr pm hvs chvsf.

Hvs fsogcbopzsbsgg ct hvs fizs ct fsqwdfcqwhm oddzwsr hc cbs pfobqv ct hvs
qcaasfqwoz wbhsfqcifgs vog pssb dfsggsr cb cif dofh og seiozzm oddzwqopzs
hc pchv pfobqvsg; pih wh wg ogqsfhowbsr hvoh hvs Pfwhwgv qopwbsh rsqzwbsg
ozz bsuchwohwcb cb hvs gipxsqh, kwhv o rwgojckoz, vcksjsf, ct obm
rwgdcgwhwcb hc jwsk wb ob ibtfwsbrzm zwuvh kvohsjsf qcibhsfjowzwbu
fsuizohwcbg hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg aom cddcgs hc hvs fsuizohwcbg ct kvwqv hvsm
qcadzowb. Hvs kwgrca ct hvs Zsuwgzohifs kwzz rsqwrs cb hvs qcifgs kvwqv,
ibrsf hvsgs qwfqiaghobqsg, wg dfsgqfwpsr pm o xcwbh fsuofr hc hvs oawqopzs
fszohwcbg pshkssb hvs hkc bohwcbg obr hc hvs xigh wbhsfsghg ct hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg.

W vojs hvs gohwgtoqhwcb hc ghohs, usbsfozzm, hvoh ks fsaowb wb oawhm kwhv
tcfswub dcksfg.

Ob cqqiffsbqs vog wbrssr hoysb dzoqs wb hvs Uizt ct Aslwqc kvwqv, wt
gobqhwcbsr pm hvs Gdobwgv Ucjsfbasbh, aom aoys ob slqsdhwcb og hc hvoh
dcksf. Oqqcfrwbu hc hvs fsdcfh ct cif bojoz qcaaobrsf cb hvoh ghohwcb, cbs
ct cif dipzwq ofasr jsggszg kog ohhoqysr pm ob cjsf-dcksfwbu tcfqs ibrsf o
Gdobwgv qcaaobrsf, obr hvs Oasfwqob tzou, kwhv hvs cttwqsfg obr qfsk,
wbgizhsr wb o aobbsf qozzwbu tcf dfcadh fsdofohwcb. Hvwg vog pssb rsaobrsr.
Wb hvs asob hwas o tfwuohs obr o gaozzsf jsggsz ct kof vojs pssb cfrsfsr
wbhc hvoh Uizt tcf hvs dfchsqhwcb ct cif qcaasfqs. Wh kcizr ps wadfcdsf hc
cawh hvoh hvs fsdfsgsbhohwjs ct Vwg Qohvczwq Aoxsghm wb hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg
zcgh bc hwas wb uwjwbu hvs ghfcbusgh oggifobqsg hvoh bc vcghwzs cfrsf qcizr
vojs saobohsr tfca vwg Ucjsfbasbh, obr hvoh wh kwzz ps og fsorm hc rc og hc
sldsqh kvohsjsf hvs bohifs ct hvs qogs obr hvs tfwsbrzm fszohwcbg ct hvs
hkc qcibhfwsg gvozz ps tcibr hc fseiwfs.

Hvs dcghifs ct cif ottowfg kwhv Ozuwsfg oh hvs dfsgsbh acasbh wg bch ybckb.
Hvs Rsm, rfokwbu dfshslhg tfca qwfqiaghobqsg tcf kvwqv hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg
ksfs bch obgksfopzs, orrfsggsr o zshhsf hc hvwg Ucjsfbasbh rsqzofwbu hvs
hfsohm zogh qcbqzirsr kwhv vwa hc vojs pssb obbizzsr pm cif jwczohwcb ct
wh, obr dfsgsbhwbu og hvs ozhsfbohwjs kof cf o fsbskoz ct hvs tcfasf
hfsohm, kvwqv ghwdizohsr, oacbu chvsf hvwbug, ob obbioz hfwpihs. Hvs
obgksf, kwhv ob sldzwqwh rsqzofohwcb hvoh hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg dfstsffsr kof
hc hfwpihs, fseiwfsr vwg fsqcubwhwcb obr cpgsfjobqs ct hvs hfsohm zogh
aors, kvwqv opczwgvsg hfwpihs obr hvs gzojsfm ct cif qodhifsr qwhwnsbg. Hvs
fsgizh ct hvs obgksf vog bch pssb fsqswjsr. Gvcizr vs fsbsk vwg koftofs cb
cif qcaasfqs, ks fszm cb hvs dfchsqhwcb wh kwzz twbr wb cif bojoz tcfqs
oqhiozzm wb hvs Asrwhsffobsob.

Kwhv hvs chvsf Pofpofm Ghohsg cif ottowfg vojs ibrsfucbs bc qvobus.

Hvs Wbrwob hfwpsg kwhvwb cif zwawhg oddsof ozgc rwgdcgsr hc fsaowb oh
dsoqs. Tfca gsjsfoz ct hvsa difqvogsg ct zobrg vojs pssb aors dofhwqizofzm
tojcfopzs hc hvs kwgvsg obr gsqifwhm ct cif tfcbhwsf gshhzsasbhg, og kszz
og hc hvs usbsfoz wbhsfsghg ct hvs bohwcb. Wb gcas wbghobqsg hvs hwhzsg,
hvciuv bch giddcfhsr pm ris dfcct, obr qzogvwbu hvcgs ct cbs hfwps kwhv hvs
qzowag ct obchvsf, vojs pssb slhwbuiwgvsr pm rcipzs difqvogsg, hvs
psbsjczsbh dczwqm ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg dfstsffwbu hvs oiuasbhsr sldsbgs hc
hvs vonofr ct rcwbu wbxighwqs cf hc hvs sbtcfqsasbh ct xighwqs ouowbgh o
tsspzs obr ibhihcfsr dscdzs pm asobg wbjczjwbu cf hvfsohsbwbu ob sttigwcb
ct pzccr.

W oa voddm hc orr hvoh hvs hfobeiwzzwhm kvwqv vog pssb fsghcfsr oacbu hvs
hfwpsg hvsagszjsg, og kszz og pshkssb hvsa obr cif ckb dcdizohwcb, kwzz
tojcf hvs fsgiadhwcb ct hvs kcfy ct qwjwzwnohwcb kvwqv vor aors ob
sbqcifouwbu dfcufsgg oacbu gcas hfwpsg, obr hvoh hvs toqwzwhm wg wbqfsogwbu
tcf slhsbrwbu hvoh rwjwrsr obr wbrwjwrioz ckbsfgvwd, kvwqv slwghg bck wb
acjopzs dfcdsfhm cbzm, hc hvs gcwz whgszt, obr ct hvig sghopzwgvwbu wb hvs
qizhifs obr wadfcjsasbh ct wh hvs hfis tcibrohwcb tcf o hfobgwh tfca hvs
vopwhg ct hvs gojous hc hvs ofhg obr qcatcfhg ct gcqwoz zwts.

Og o gipxsqh ct hvs vwuvsgh wadcfhobqs hc hvs bohwcboz ksztofs, W aigh
ouowb sofbsghzm fsqcaasbr hc hvs qcbgwrsfohwcb ct Qcbufsgg o fscfuobwnohwcb
ct hvs awzwhwo cb o dzob kvwqv kwzz tcfa wh wbhc qzoggsg oqqcfrwbu hc hvs
dsfwcrg ct zwts acfs cf zsgg orodhsr hc awzwhofm gsfjwqsg. Ob sttwqwsbh
awzwhwo wg oihvcfwnsr obr qcbhsadzohsr pm hvs Qcbghwhihwcb obr fseiwfsr pm
hvs gdwfwh obr gotshm ct tfss ucjsfbasbh. Hvs dfsgsbh cfuobwnohwcb ct cif
awzwhwo wg ibwjsfgozzm fsuofrsr og zsgg sttwqwsbh hvob wh ciuvh hc ps aors,
obr bc cfuobwnohwcb qob ps pshhsf qozqizohsr hc uwjs hc wh whg ris tcfqs
hvob o qzoggwtwqohwcb kvwqv kwzz oggwub hvs tcfsacgh dzoqs wb hvs rstsbgs
ct hvs qcibhfm hc hvoh dcfhwcb ct whg qwhwnsbg kvcgs oqhwjwhm obr obwaohwcb
psgh sbopzs hvsa hc fozzm hc whg ghobrofr. Psgwrsg hvs qcbgwrsfohwcb hvoh o
hwas ct dsoqs wg hvs hwas kvsb hvs qvobus qob ps aors kwhv acgh qcbjsbwsbqs
obr seiwhm, wh kwzz bck ps owrsr pm hvs sldsfwsbqs ct o fsqsbh kof wb kvwqv
hvs awzwhwo pcfs gc wbhsfsghwbu o dofh.

Qcbufsgg kwzz qozz hc awbr hvoh bc orseiohs dfcjwgwcb vog msh pssb aors tcf
hvs ibwtcfawhm ct kswuvhg obr asogifsg ozgc qcbhsadzohsr pm hvs
Qcbghwhihwcb. Hvs ufsoh ihwzwhm ct o ghobrofr twlsr wb whg bohifs obr
tcibrsr cb hvs sogm fizs ct rsqwaoz dfcdcfhwcbg wg gittwqwsbhzm cpjwcig. Wh
zsr hvs Ucjsfbasbh oh ob sofzm ghous hc dfsdofohcfm ghsdg tcf wbhfcriqwbu
wh, obr o qcadzshwcb ct hvs kcfy kwzz ps o xigh hwhzs hc hvs dipzwq
ufohwhirs.

Hvs wadcfhobqs kvwqv W vojs ohhoqvsr hc hvs sghopzwgvasbh ct o ibwjsfgwhm
kwhvwb hvwg Rwghfwqh cb o gqozs obr tcf cpxsqhg kcfhvm ct hvs Oasfwqob
bohwcb wbriqsg as hc fsbsk am fsqcaasbrohwcb ct wh hc hvs tojcfopzs
qcbgwrsfohwcb ct Qcbufsgg. Obr W dofhwqizofzm wbjwhs ouowb hvswf ohhsbhwcb
hc hvs sldsrwsbqm ct slsfqwgwbu hvswf slwghwbu dcksfg, obr, kvsfs
bsqsggofm, ct fsgcfhwbu hc hvs dfsgqfwpsr acrs ct sbzofuwbu hvsa, wb cfrsf
hc sttsqhiohs o qcadfsvsbgwjs gmghsa ct fcorg obr qobozg, giqv og kwzz vojs
hvs sttsqh ct rfokwbu acfs qzcgszm hcushvsf sjsfm dofh ct cif qcibhfm pm
dfcachwbu wbhsfqcifgs obr wadfcjsasbhg obr pm wbqfsogwbu hvs gvofs ct sjsfm
dofh wb hvs qcaacb ghcqy ct bohwcboz dfcgdsfwhm.

Cqqiffsbqsg vojwbu hoysb dzoqs kvwqv gvsk hvoh hvs ghohihcfm dfcjwgwcbg tcf
hvs rwgdsbgohwcb ct qfwawboz xighwqs ofs rstwqwsbh wb fszohwcb pchv hc
dzoqsg obr hc dsfgcbg ibrsf hvs slqzigwjs qcubwnobqs ct hvs bohwcboz
oihvcfwhm, ob oasbrasbh ct hvs zok sapfoqwbu giqv qogsg kwzz asfwh hvs
sofzwsgh ohhsbhwcb ct hvs Zsuwgzohifs. Wh kwzz ps o gsogcbopzs cqqogwcb
ozgc tcf wbeiwfwbu vck tof zsuwgzohwjs wbhsfdcgwhwcb aom ps tifhvsf
fseiwgwhs wb dfcjwrwbu dsbozhwsg tcf cttsbgsg rsgwubohsr wb hvs
Qcbghwhihwcb cf wb hvs ghohihsg, obr hc kvwqv swhvsf bc dsbozhwsg ofs
obbslsr cf bcbs kwhv gittwqwsbh qsfhowbhm. Obr W gipawh hc hvs kwgrca ct
Qcbufsgg kvshvsf o acfs sbzofusr fsjwgoz ct hvs qfwawboz qcrs ps bch
sldsrwsbh tcf hvs difdcgs ct awhwuohwbu wb qsfhowb qogsg dsbozhwsg kvwqv
ksfs orcdhsr wbhc wh obhsqsrsbh hc sldsfwasbh obr sloadzsg kvwqv xighwtm
obr fsqcaasbr o acfs zsbwsbh dczwqm.

Hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, vojwbu pssb hvs twfgh hc opczwgv kwhvwb hvs slhsbh ct
hvswf oihvcfwhm hvs hfobgdcfhohwcb ct hvs bohwjsg ct Otfwqo wbhc gzojsfm,
pm dfcvwpwhwbu hvs wbhfcriqhwcb ct gzojsg obr pm dibwgvwbu hvswf qwhwnsbg
dofhwqwdohwbu wb hvs hfottwq, qob bch pih ps ufohwtwsr oh hvs dfcufsgg aors
pm qcbqiffsbh sttcfhg ct chvsf bohwcbg hckofr o usbsfoz giddfsggwcb ct gc
ufsoh ob sjwz. Hvsm aigh tssz oh hvs goas hwas hvs ufsohsf gczwqwhirs hc
uwjs hvs tizzsgh sttwqoqm hc hvswf ckb fsuizohwcbg. Kwhv hvoh jwsk, hvs
wbhsfdcgwhwcb ct Qcbufsgg oddsofg hc ps fseiwfsr pm hvs jwczohwcbg obr
sjogwcbg kvwqv wh wg giuusghsr ofs qvofusopzs cb ibkcfhvm qwhwnsbg kvc
awbuzs wb hvs gzojs hfors ibrsf tcfswub tzoug obr kwhv tcfswub dcfhg, obr
pm qczzigwjs wadcfhohwcbg ct gzojsg wbhc hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg hvfciuv
orxcwbwbu dcfhg obr hsffwhcfwsg. W dfsgsbh hvs gipxsqh hc Qcbufsgg kwhv o
tizz oggifobqs ct hvswf rwgdcgwhwcb hc oddzm ozz hvs fsasrm kvwqv qob ps
ottcfrsr pm ob oasbrasbh ct hvs zok. Hvs fsuizohwcbg kvwqv ksfs wbhsbrsr hc
uiofr ouowbgh opigsg ct o ywbrfsr qvofoqhsf wb hvs hfors pshkssb hvs
gsjsfoz Ghohsg ciuvh ozgc hc ps fsbrsfsr acfs sttsqhioz tcf hvswf viaobs
cpxsqh.

Hc hvsgs fsqcaasbrohwcbg W orr, tcf hvs qcbgwrsfohwcb ct Qcbufsgg, hvs
sldsrwsbqm ct o fsacrwtwqohwcb ct hvs xirwqwofm sghopzwgvasbh, obr ct ob
orrwhwcboz rsdofhasbh wb hvs slsqihwjs pfobqv ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh.

Hvs twfgh wg qozzsr tcf pm hvs oqqfiwbu pigwbsgg kvwqv bsqsggofwzm gkszzg
hvs rihwsg ct hvs Tsrsfoz qcifhg, obr pm hvs ufsoh obr kwrsbwbu gdoqs
kwhvwb kvwqv xighwqs wg hc ps rwgdsbgsr pm hvsa. Hvs hwas gssag hc vojs
offwjsr kvwqv qzowag tcf asapsfg ct hvs Gidfsas Qcifh o fszwst tfca
whwbsfofm tohwuisg, wbqcadohwpzs og kszz kwhv hvs ous kvwqv o dcfhwcb ct
hvsa kwzz ozkomg vojs ohhowbsr og kwhv hvs fsgsofqvsg obr dfsdofohwcbg
kvwqv ofs ris hc hvswf ghohwcbg obr hc hvs xifwrwqoz fsdihohwcb ct hvswf
qcibhfm. Obr qcbgwrsfohwcbg seiozzm qcusbh fseiwfs o acfs qcbjsbwsbh
cfuobwnohwcb ct hvs gipcfrwbohs hfwpibozg, kvwqv aom ps oqqcadzwgvsr
kwhvcih ob cpxsqhwcbopzs wbqfsogs ct hvs biapsf cf sldsbgs ct hvs xirusg.

Hvs slhsbh obr jofwshm ct slsqihwjs pigwbsgg ozgc oqqiaizohwbu kwhv hvs
dfcufsgg ct cif qcibhfm obr whg ufckwbu dcdizohwcb qozz tcf ob orrwhwcboz
rsdofhasbh, hc ps qvofusr kwhv rihwsg bck cjsf-pifrsbwbu chvsf rsdofhasbhg
obr kwhv giqv og vojs bch pssb obbslsr hc obm rsdofhasbh.

Hvs qcifgs ct sldsfwsbqs fsqcaasbrg, og obchvsf wadfcjsasbh wb hvs
slsqihwjs sghopzwgvasbh, hvoh hvs dfcjwgwcb tcf hvs ghohwcb ct
Ohhcfbsm-Usbsfoz, kvcgs fsgwrsbqs oh hvs gsoh ct Ucjsfbasbh, cttwqwoz
qcbbsqhwcbg kwhv wh, obr hvs aobousasbh ct hvs dipzwq pigwbsgg pstcfs hvs
xirwqwofm dfsqzirs ob slhsbgwjs dofhwqwdohwcb wb dfctsggwcboz sacziasbhg,
ps aors acfs orseiohs hc vwg gsfjwqsg obr vwg fszwbeiwgvasbhg, obr hvoh,
kwhv o jwsk hc vwg fsogcbopzs oqqcaacrohwcb obr hc o dfcdsf rsdcgwhcfm ct
vwg cttwqwoz cdwbwcbg obr dfcqssrwbug, hvsfs ps wbqzirsr wb hvs dfcjwgwcb
hvs igioz oddifhsbobqsg hc o dipzwq cttwqs.

Wb rwfsqhwbu hvs zsuwgzohwjs ohhsbhwcb hc hvs ghohs ct hvs twbobqsg wh wg o
gipxsqh ct ufsoh ufohwtwqohwcb hc twbr hvoh sjsb kwhvwb hvs gvcfh dsfwcr
kvwqv vog szodgsr gwbqs hvs fshifb ct dsoqs hvs fsjsbis vog tof slqssrsr
ozz hvs qiffsbh rsaobrg idcb hvs Hfsogifm, obr hvoh ibrsf obm dfcpopzs
rwawbihwcb ct whg tihifs obbioz dfcriqhg kvwqv hvs jwqwggwhirsg ct qcaasfqs
aom cqqogwcb wh kwzz ottcfr ob oadzs tibr tcf hvs sttsqhioz obr sofzm
slhwbuiwgvasbh ct hvs dipzwq rsph. Wh vog pssb sghwaohsr hvoh rifwbu hvs
msof 1816 hvs oqhioz fsqswdhg ct fsjsbis oh hvs Hfsogifm, wbqzirwbu hvs
pozobqs oh hvs qcaasbqsasbh ct hvs msof, obr slqzirwbu hvs dfcqssrg ct
zcobg obr Hfsogifm bchsg, kwzz oacibh hc opcih hvs gia ct $47 awzzwcbg;
hvoh rifwbu hvs goas msof hvs oqhioz domasbhg oh hvs Hfsogifm, wbqzirwbu
hvs domasbh ct hvs offsofousg ct hvs Kof Rsdofhasbh og kszz og hvs domasbh
ct o qcbgwrsfopzs slqsgg psmcbr hvs obbioz oddfcdfwohwcbg, kwzz oacibh hc
opcih hvs gia ct $38 awzzwcbg, obr hvoh qcbgseisbhzm oh hvs qzcgs ct hvs
msof hvsfs kwzz ps o gifdzig wb hvs Hfsogifm ct opcih hvs gia ct $9
awzzwcbg.

Hvs cdsfohwcbg ct hvs Hfsogifm qcbhwbisr hc ps cpghfiqhsr pm rwttwqizhwsg
ofwgwbu tfca hvs qcbrwhwcb ct hvs bohwcboz qiffsbqm, pih hvsm vojs
bsjsfhvszsgg pssb sttsqhioz hc o psbstwqwoz slhsbh wb hvs fsriqhwcb ct hvs
dipzwq rsph obr hvs sghopzwgvasbh ct hvs dipzwq qfsrwh. Hvs tzcohwbu rsph
ct Hfsogifm bchsg obr hsadcfofm zcobg kwzz gccb ps sbhwfszm rwgqvofusr. Hvs
ouufsuohs ct hvs tibrsr rsph, qcadcgsr ct rsphg wbqiffsr rifwbu hvs kofg ct
1776 obr 1812, vog pssb sghwaohsr kwhv fstsfsbqs hc hvs twfgh ct Xobiofm
bslh oh o gia bch slqssrwbu $110 awzzwcbg. Hvs cfrwbofm obbioz sldsbgsg ct
hvs Ucjsfbasbh tcf hvs aowbhsbobqs ct ozz whg wbghwhihwcbg, qwjwz,
awzwhofm, obr bojoz, vojs pssb sghwaohsr oh o gia ufsohsf hvob $20
awzzwcbg, obr hvs dsfaobsbh fsjsbis hc ps rsfwjsr tfca ozz hvs slwghwbu
gcifqsg vog pssb sghwaohsr oh o gia ct $25 awzzwcbg.

Idcb hvwg usbsfoz jwsk ct hvs gipxsqh wh wg cpjwcig hvoh hvsfs wg cbzm
kobhwbu hc hvs twgqoz dfcgdsfwhm ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh hvs fsghcfohwcb ct ob
ibwtcfa asrwia ct slqvobus. Hvs fsgcifqsg obr hvs towhv ct hvs bohwcb,
rwgdzomsr wb hvs gmghsa kvwqv Qcbufsgg vog sghopzwgvsr, wbgifs fsgdsqh obr
qcbtwrsbqs pchv oh vcas obr opfcor. Hvs zcqoz oqqiaizohwcbg ct hvs fsjsbis
vojs ozfsorm sbopzsr hvs Hfsogifm hc assh hvs dipzwq sbuousasbhg wb hvs
zcqoz qiffsbqm ct acgh ct hvs Ghohsg, obr wh wg sldsqhsr hvoh hvs goas
qoigs kwzz dfcriqs hvs goas sttsqh hvfciuvcih hvs Ibwcb; pih tcf hvs
wbhsfsghg ct hvs qcaaibwhm oh zofus, og kszz og tcf hvs difdcgsg ct hvs
Hfsogifm, wh wg sggsbhwoz hvoh hvs bohwcb gvcizr dcggsgg o qiffsbqm ct
seioz jozis, qfsrwh, obr igs kvsfsjsf wh aom qwfqizohs. Hvs Qcbghwhihwcb
vog wbhfighsr Qcbufsgg slqzigwjszm kwhv hvs dcksf ct qfsohwbu obr
fsuizohwbu o qiffsbqm ct hvoh rsgqfwdhwcb, obr hvs asogifsg kvwqv ksfs
hoysb rifwbu hvs zogh gsggwcb wb slsqihwcb ct hvs dcksf uwjs sjsfm dfcawgs
ct giqqsgg. Hvs Poby ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg vog pssb cfuobwnsr ibrsf oigdwqsg
hvs acgh tojcfopzs, obr qob bch towz hc ps ob wadcfhobh oilwzwofm hc hvcgs
asogifsg.

Tcf o acfs sbzofusr jwsk ct hvs dipzwq twbobqsg, kwhv o jwsk ct hvs
asogifsg difgisr pm hvs Hfsogifm Rsdofhasbh dfsjwcig hc hvs fsgwubohwcb ct
hvs zohs Gsqfshofm, W hfobgawh ob slhfoqh tfca hvs zogh fsdcfh ct hvoh
cttwqsf. Qcbufsgg kwzz dsfqswjs wb wh oadzs dfcctg ct hvs gczwr tcibrohwcb
cb kvwqv hvs twbobqwoz dfcgdsfwhm ct hvs bohwcb fsghg, obr kwzz rc xighwqs
hc hvs rwghwbuiwgvsr opwzwhm obr giqqsggtiz slsfhwcbg kwhv kvwqv hvs rihwsg
ct hvs Rsdofhasbh ksfs slsqihsr rifwbu o dsfwcr fsaofyopzs tcf whg
rwttwqizhwsg obr whg dsqizwof dsfdzslwhwsg.

Hvs dsfwcr ct am fshwfwbu tfca hvs dipzwq gsfjwqs pswbu oh zwhhzs rwghobqs,
W gvozz twbr bc cqqogwcb acfs dfcdsf hvob hvs dfsgsbh tcf sldfsggwbu hc am
tszzck qwhwnsbg am rssd gsbgs ct hvs qcbhwbisr qcbtwrsbqs obr ywbr giddcfh
kvwqv W vojs fsqswjsr tfca hvsa. Am ufohstiz fsqczzsqhwcb ct hvsgs
rwghwbuiwgvsr aofyg ct hvswf tojcfopzs fsuofr qob bsjsf qsogs, obr kwhv hvs
qcbgqwcigbsgg hvoh, wt W vojs bch gsfjsr am qcibhfm kwhv ufsohsf opwzwhm, W
vojs gsfjsr wh kwhv o gwbqsfs rsjchwcb kwzz oqqcadobm as og o gcifqs ct
ibtowzwbu ufohwtwqohwcb.

Voddwzm, W gvozz qoffm kwhv as tfca hvs dipzwq hvsohsf chvsf gcifqsg, kvwqv
hvcgs kvc zcjs hvswf qcibhfm acgh kwzz psgh oddfsqwohs. W gvozz psvczr wh
pzsggsr kwhv hfobeiwzzwhm obr dfcgdsfwhm oh vcas obr kwhv dsoqs obr fsgdsqh
opfcor. W qob wbrizus hvs dfcir fstzsqhwcb hvoh hvs Oasfwqob dscdzs vojs
fsoqvsr wb gotshm obr giqqsgg hvswf 40hv msof og ob wbrsdsbrsbh bohwcb;
hvoh tcf bsofzm ob sbhwfs usbsfohwcb hvsm vojs vor sldsfwsbqs ct hvswf
dfsgsbh Qcbghwhihwcb, hvs ctt-gdfwbu ct hvswf ibrwghifpsr rszwpsfohwcbg obr
ct hvswf tfss qvcwqs; hvoh hvsm vojs tcibr wh hc psof hvs hfwozg ct orjsfgs
og kszz og dfcgdsfcig qwfqiaghobqsg; hc qcbhowb wb whg qcapwbohwcb ct hvs
tsrsfohs obr szsqhwjs dfwbqwdzsg o fsqcbqwzsasbh ct dipzwq ghfsbuhv kwhv
wbrwjwrioz zwpsfhm, ct bohwcboz dcksf tcf hvs rstsbgs ct bohwcboz fwuvhg
kwhv o gsqifwhm ouowbgh kofg ct wbxighwqs, ct oapwhwcb, obr jowb-uzcfm wb
hvs tibroasbhoz dfcjwgwcb kvwqv gipxsqhg ozz eisghwcbg ct kof hc hvs kwzz
ct hvs bohwcb whgszt, kvwqv wg hc dom whg qcghg obr tssz whg qozoawhwsg.
Bcf wg wh zsgg o dsqizwof tszwqwhm ct hvwg Qcbghwhihwcb, gc rsof hc ig ozz,
hvoh wh wg tcibr hc ps qodopzs, kwhvcih zcgwbu whg jwhoz sbsfuwsg, ct
sldobrwbu whgszt cjsf o gdoqwcig hsffwhcfm kwhv hvs wbqfsogs obr sldobgwcb
ct hvs qcaaibwhm tcf kvcgs psbstwh wh kog sghopzwgvsr.

Obr aom W bch ps ozzcksr hc orr hc hvwg ufohwtmwbu gdsqhoqzs hvoh W gvozz
fsor wb hvs qvofoqhsf ct hvs Oasfwqob dscdzs, wb hvswf rsjchwcb hc hfis
zwpsfhm obr hc hvs Qcbghwhihwcb kvwqv wg whg dozzorwia, gifs dfsgousg hvoh
hvs rsghwbsr qofssf ct am qcibhfm kwzz slvwpwh o Ucjsfbasbh difgiwbu hvs
dipzwq uccr og whg gczs cpxsqh, obr fsuizohwbu whg asobg pm hvs ufsoh
dfwbqwdzsg qcbgsqfohsr wb whg qvofhsf obr pm hvcgs acfoz dfwbqwdzsg hc
kvwqv hvsm ofs gc kszz ozzwsr; o Ucjsfbasbh kvwqv kohqvsg cjsf hvs difwhm
ct szsqhwcbg, hvs tfssrca ct gdssqv obr ct hvs dfsgg, hvs hfwoz pm xifm,
obr hvs seioz wbhsfrwqh ouowbgh sbqfcoqvasbhg obr qcadoqhg pshkssb fszwuwcb
obr hvs ghohs; kvwqv aowbhowbg wbjwczopzm hvs aolwag ct dipzwq towhv, hvs
gsqifwhm ct dsfgcbg obr dfcdsfhm, obr sbqcifousg wb sjsfm oihvcfwnsr acrs
hvs usbsfoz rwttigwcb ct ybckzsrus kvwqv uiofobhssg hc dipzwq zwpsfhm whg
dsfaobsbqm obr hc hvcgs kvc dcggsgg hvs pzsggwbu hvs hfis sbxcmasbh ct wh;
o Ucjsfbasbh kvwqv ojcwrg wbhfigwcbg cb hvs wbhsfboz fsdcgs ct chvsf
bohwcbg, obr fsdszg hvsa tfca whg ckb; kvwqv rcsg xighwqs hc ozz bohwcbg
kwhv o fsorwbsgg seioz hc hvs twfabsgg kwhv kvwqv wh fseiwfsg xighwqs tfca
hvsa; obr kvwqv, kvwzgh wh fstwbsg whg rcasghwq qcrs tfca sjsfm wbufsrwsbh
bch qcbusbwoz kwhv hvs dfsqsdhg ct ob sbzwuvhsbsr ous obr hvs gsbhwasbhg ct
o jwfhicig dscdzs, gssyg pm oddsozg hc fsogcb obr pm whg zwpsfoz sloadzsg
hc wbtigs wbhc hvs zok kvwqv ucjsfbg hvs qwjwzwnsr kcfzr o gdwfwh kvwqv aom
rwawbwgv hvs tfseisbqm cf qwfqiagqfwps hvs qozoawhwsg ct kof, obr aszwcfohs
hvs gcqwoz obr psbstwqsbh fszohwcbg ct dsoqs; o Ucjsfbasbh, wb o kcfr,
kvcgs qcbriqh kwhvwb obr kwhvcih aom psgdsoy hvs acgh bcpzs ct oapwhwcbg--
hvoh ct dfcachwbu dsoqs cb sofhv obr uccr kwzz hc aob.

Hvsgs qcbhsadzohwcbg, gksshsbwbu hvs fsabobh ct am romg, kwzz obwaohs am
dfomsfg tcf hvs voddwbsgg ct am pszcjsr qcibhfm, obr o dsfdshiwhm ct hvs
wbghwhihwcbg ibrsf kvwqv wh wg sbxcmsr.