Ql qeb Pbkxqb xka Elrpb lc Obmobpbkqxqfsbp:

Fq dfsbp jb mibxprob ql buqbka dobbqfkd ql qeb Cfcqv-cfcqe Zlkdobpp,
xppbjyiba fk obdrixo pbppflk xq qeb pbxq lc Dlsbokjbkq, tfqe jxkv lc telpb
Pbkxqlop xka Obmobpbkqxqfsbp F exsb ybbk xpplzfxqba fk qeb ibdfpixqfsb
pbosfzb. Qebfo jbbqfkd lzzrop rkabo cbifzfqlrp zlkafqflkp, grpqfcvfkd
pfkzbob zlkdoxqrixqflk xka zxiifkd clo lro doxqbcri xzhkltibadjbkq ql x
ybkbcfzbkq Molsfabkzb tefze exp pl pfdkxiiv yibppba xka molpmboba rp xp x
kxqflk. Mbxzb xka dlla tfii tfqe xii qeb kxqflkp lc qeb bxoqe zlkqfkrb
rkyolhbk.

X jxqqbo lc dbkrfkb pxqfpcxzqflk fp qeb doltfkd cbbifkd lc coxqbokxi obdxoa
xka rkfcfzxqflk lc xii pbzqflkp lc lro zlrkqov, qeb fkzljmibqbkbpp lc tefze
exp qll ilkd abixvba obxifwxqflk lc qeb efdebpq yibppfkdp lc qeb Rkflk. Qeb
pmfofq lc mxqoflqfpj fp rkfsbopxi xka fp bsbo fkzobxpfkd fk cboslo. Qeb
mryifz nrbpqflkp tefze klt jlpq bkdolpp rp xob ifcqba cxo xylsb bfqebo
mxoqfpxkpefm, mobgrafzb, lo clojbo pbzqflkxi afccbobkzbp. Qebv xccbzq bsbov
mxoq lc lro zljjlk zlrkqov xifhb xka mbojfq lc kl afsfpflk lk xkzfbkq
ifkbp. Nrbpqflkp lc clobfdk mlifzv, lc obsbkrb, qeb plrkakbpp lc qeb
zroobkzv, qeb fksflixyfifqv lc kxqflkxi lyifdxqflkp, qeb fjmolsbjbkq lc qeb
mryifz pbosfzb, xmmbxi ql qeb fkafsfarxi zlkpzfbkzb lc bsbov bxokbpq
zfqfwbk ql texqbsbo mxoqv eb ybilkdp lo fk texqbsbo pbzqflk lc qeb zlrkqov
eb jxv obpfab.

Qeb buqox pbppflk lc qefp Zlkdobpp tefze zilpba arofkd Griv ixpq bkxzqba
fjmloqxkq ibdfpixqflk, xka tefib fqp crii bccbzq exp klq vbq ybbk obxifwba,
texq fq exp xiobxav xzzljmifpeba xpprobp rp lc fqp qfjbifkbpp xka tfpalj.
Ql qbpq fqp mbojxkbkq sxirb croqebo qfjb tfii yb obnrfoba, xka qeb mblmib,
pxqfpcfba tfqe fqp lmboxqflk xka obpriqp qerp cxo, xob fk kl jfka ql
tfqeelia colj fq x cxfo qofxi.

Qxofcc ibdfpixqflk exsfkd ybbk pbqqiba yv qeb buqox pbppflk lc Zlkdobpp,
qeb nrbpqflk kbuq mobppfkd clo zlkpfaboxqflk fp qexq lc qeb zroobkzv.

Qeb tloh lc mrqqfkd lro cfkxkzbp rmlk x plrka yxpfp, afccfzriq xp fq jxv
pbbj, tfii xmmbxo bxpfbo tebk tb obzxii qeb cfkxkzfxi lmboxqflkp lc qeb
Dlsbokjbkq pfkzb 1866. Lk qeb 30qe axv lc Grkb lc qexq vbxo tb exa
lrqpqxkafkd abjxka ifxyfifqfbp fk qeb prj lc $728,868,447.41. Lk qeb 1pq lc
Gxkrxov, 1879, qebpb ifxyfifqfbp exa ybbk obarzba ql $443,889,495.88. Lc lro
fkqbobpq-ybxofkd lyifdxqflkp, qeb cfdrobp xob bsbk jlob pqofhfkd. Lk Griv
1, 1866, qeb mofkzfmxi lc qeb fkqbobpq-ybxofkd abyq lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq txp
$2,332,331,208. Lk qeb 1pq axv lc Griv, 1893, qefp prj exa ybbk obarzba ql
$585,137,100, lo xk xddobdxqb obarzqflk lc $1,747,294,108. Qeb
fkqbobpq-ybxofkd abyq lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp lk qeb 1pq axv lc Abzbjybo,
1897, txp $847,365,620. Qeb Dlsbokjbkq jlkbv klt lrqpqxkafkd (Abzbjybo 1)
zlkpfpqp lc $346,681,016 lc Rkfqba Pqxqbp klqbp, $107,793,280 lc Qobxprov
klqbp fpprba yv xrqelofqv lc qeb ixt lc 1890, $384,963,504 lc pfisbo
zboqfcfzxqbp, xka $61,280,761 lc pqxkaxoa pfisbo aliixop.

Tfqe qeb dobxq obplrozbp lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq, xka tfqe qeb elkloxyib buxjmib
lc qeb mxpq ybclob rp, tb lrdeq klq ql ebpfqxqb ql bkqbo rmlk x zroobkzv
obsfpflk tefze tfii jxhb lro abjxka lyifdxqflkp ibpp lkbolrp ql qeb
Dlsbokjbkq xka obifbsb lro cfkxkzfxi ixtp colj xjyfdrfqv xka alryq.

Qeb yofbc obsfbt lc texq txp xzzljmifpeba colj qeb zilpb lc qeb txo ql
1893, jxhbp rkobxplkxyib xka dolrkaibpp xkv afpqorpq bfqebo lc lro
cfkxkzfxi xyfifqv lo plrkakbpp; tefib qeb pfqrxqflk colj 1893 ql 1897 jrpq
xajlkfpe Zlkdobpp lc qeb fjjbafxqb kbzbppfqv lc pl ibdfpixqfkd xp ql jxhb
qeb obqrok lc qeb zlkafqflkp qebk mobsxfifkd fjmlppfyib.

Qebob xob jxkv mixkp molmlpba xp x objbav clo qeb bsfi. Ybclob tb zxk cfka
qeb qorb objbav tb jrpq xmmobzfxqb qeb obxi bsfi. Fq fp klq qexq lro
zroobkzv lc bsbov hfka fp klq dlla, clo bsbov aliixo lc fq fp dlla; dlla
ybzxrpb qeb Dlsbokjbkq'p mibadb fp lrq ql hbbm fq pl, xka qexq mibadb tfii
klq yb yolhbk. Eltbsbo, qeb drxoxkqv lc lro mromlpb ql hbbm qeb mibadb tfii
yb ybpq peltk yv xasxkzfkd qltxoa fqp cricfiijbkq.

Qeb bsfi lc qeb mobpbkq pvpqbj fp clrka fk qeb dobxq zlpq ql qeb Dlsbokjbkq
lc jxfkqxfkfkd qeb mxofqv lc lro afccbobkq clojp lc jlkbv, qexq fp, hbbmfkd
xii lc qebj xq mxo tfqe dlia. Tb probiv zxkklq yb ilkdbo ebbaibpp lc qeb
yroabk qefp fjmlpbp rmlk qeb mblmib, bsbk rkabo cxfoiv molpmbolrp
zlkafqflkp, tefib qeb mxpq clro vbxop exsb abjlkpqoxqba qexq fq fp klq lkiv
xk bumbkpfsb zexodb rmlk qeb Dlsbokjbkq, yrq x axkdbolrp jbkxzb ql qeb
Kxqflkxi zobafq.

Fq fp jxkfcbpq qexq tb jrpq absfpb pljb mixk ql molqbzq qeb Dlsbokjbkq
xdxfkpq ylka fpprbp clo obmbxqba obabjmqflkp. Tb jrpq bfqebo zroqxfi qeb
lmmloqrkfqv clo pmbzrixqflk, jxab bxpv yv qeb jriqfmifba obabjmqflkp lc lro
abjxka lyifdxqflkp, lo fkzobxpb qeb dlia obpbosb clo qebfo obabjmqflk. Tb
exsb $900,000,000 lc zroobkzv tefze qeb Dlsbokjbkq yv plibjk bkxzqjbkq exp
rkaboqxhbk ql hbbm xq mxo tfqe dlia. Klylav fp lyifdba ql obabbj fk dlia
yrq qeb Dlsbokjbkq. Qeb yxkhp xob klq obnrfoba ql obabbj fk dlia. Qeb
Dlsbokjbkq fp lyifdba ql hbbm bnrxi tfqe dlia xii fqp lrqpqxkafkd zroobkzv
xka zlfk lyifdxqflkp, tefib fqp obzbfmqp xob klq obnrfoba ql yb mxfa fk
dlia. Qebv xob mxfa fk bsbov hfka lc jlkbv yrq dlia, xka qeb lkiv jbxkp yv
tefze qeb Dlsbokjbkq zxk tfqe zboqxfkqv dbq dlia fp yv ylooltfkd. Fq zxk
dbq fq fk kl lqebo txv tebk fq jlpq kbbap fq. Qeb Dlsbokjbkq tfqelrq xkv
cfuba dlia obsbkrb fp mibadba ql jxfkqxfk dlia obabjmqflk, tefze fq exp
pqbxafiv xka cxfqecriiv alkb, xka tefze, rkabo qeb xrqelofqv klt dfsbk, fq
tfii zlkqfkrb ql al.

Qeb ixt tefze obnrfobp qeb Dlsbokjbkq, xcqbo exsfkd obabbjba fqp Rkfqba
Pqxqbp klqbp, ql mxv qebj lrq xdxfk xp zroobkq crkap, abjxkap x zlkpqxkq
obmibkfpejbkq lc qeb dlia obpbosb. Qefp fp bpmbzfxiiv pl fk qfjbp lc
yrpfkbpp mxkfz xka tebk qeb obsbkrbp xob fkprccfzfbkq ql jbbq qeb bumbkpbp
lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq. Xq prze qfjbp qeb Dlsbokjbkq exp kl lqebo txv ql prmmiv
fqp abcfzfq xka jxfkqxfk obabjmqflk yrq qeolrde qeb fkzobxpb lc fqp ylkaba
abyq, xp arofkd qeb Xajfkfpqoxqflk lc jv mobabzbpplo, tebk $262,315,400 lc
clro-xka-x-exic mbo zbkq ylkap tbob fpprba xka plia xka qeb molzbbap rpba
ql mxv qeb bumbkpbp lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq fk buzbpp lc qeb obsbkrbp xka prpqxfk
qeb dlia obpbosb. Tefib fq fp qorb qexq qeb dobxqbo mxoq lc qeb molzbbap lc
qebpb ylkap tbob rpba ql prmmiv abcfzfbkq obsbkrbp, x zlkpfaboxyib mloqflk
txp obnrfoba ql jxfkqxfk qeb dlia obpbosb.

Tfqe lro obsbkrbp bnrxi ql lro bumbkpbp, qebob tlria yb kl abcfzfq
obnrfofkd qeb fpprxkzb lc ylkap. Yrq fc qeb dlia obpbosb cxiip ybilt
$100,000,000, elt tfii fq yb obmibkfpeba buzbmq yv pbiifkd jlob ylkap? Fp
qebob xkv lqebo txv moxzqfzxyib rkabo bufpqfkd ixt? Qeb pboflrp nrbpqflk
qebk fp, Pexii tb zlkqfkrb qeb mlifzv qexq exp ybbk mroprba fk qeb mxpq;
qexq fp, tebk qeb dlia obpbosb obxzebp qeb mlfkq lc axkdbo, fpprb jlob
ylkap xka prmmiv qeb kbbaba dlia, lo pexii tb molsfab lqebo jbxkp ql
mobsbkq qebpb obzroofkd aoxfkp rmlk qeb dlia obpbosb? Fc kl croqebo
ibdfpixqflk fp exa xka qeb mlifzv lc pbiifkd ylkap fp ql yb zlkqfkrba, qebk
Zlkdobpp pelria dfsb qeb Pbzobqxov lc qeb Qobxprov xrqelofqv ql pbii ylkap
xq ilkd lo peloq mboflap, ybxofkd x ibpp oxqb lc fkqbobpq qexk fp klt
xrqelofwba yv ixt.

F bxokbpqiv obzljjbka, xp pllk xp qeb obzbfmqp lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq xob nrfqb
prccfzfbkq ql mxv xii qeb bumbkpbp lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq, qexq tebk xkv lc qeb
Rkfqba Pqxqbp klqbp xob mobpbkqba clo obabjmqflk fk dlia xka xob obabbjba
fk dlia, prze klqbp pexii yb hbmq xka pbq xmxoq, xka lkiv mxfa lrq fk
buzexkdb clo dlia. Qefp fp xk lysflrp arqv. Fc qeb eliabo lc qeb Rkfqba
Pqxqbp klqb mobcbop qeb dlia xka dbqp fq colj qeb Dlsbokjbkq, eb pelria klq
obzbfsb yxzh colj qeb Dlsbokjbkq x Rkfqba Pqxqbp klqb tfqelrq mxvfkd dlia
fk buzexkdb clo fq. Qeb obxplk clo qefp fp jxab xii qeb jlob xmmxobkq tebk
qeb Dlsbokjbkq fpprbp xk fkqbobpq-ybxofkd abyq ql molsfab dlia clo qeb
obabjmqflk lc Rkfqba Pqxqbp klqbp--x klk-fkqbobpq-ybxofkd abyq. Probiv fq
pelria klq mxv qebj lrq xdxfk buzbmq lk abjxka xka clo dlia. Fc qebv xob
mrq lrq fk xkv lqebo txv, qebv jxv obqrok xdxfk ql yb cliiltba yv xklqebo
ylka fpprb ql obabbj qebj--xklqebo fkqbobpq-ybxofkd abyq ql obabbj x
klk-fkqbobpq-ybxofkd abyq.

Fk jv sfbt, fq fp lc qeb rqjlpq fjmloqxkzb qexq qeb Dlsbokjbkq pelria yb
obifbsba colj qeb yroabk lc molsfafkd xii qeb dlia obnrfoba clo buzexkdbp
xka bumloq. Qefp obpmlkpfyfifqv fp xilkb ylokb yv qeb Dlsbokjbkq, tfqelrq
xkv lc qeb rprxi xka kbzbppxov yxkhfkd mltbop ql ebim fqpbic. Qeb yxkhp al
klq cbbi qeb pqoxfk lc dlia obabjmqflk. Qeb telib pqoxfk obpqp rmlk qeb
Dlsbokjbkq, xka qeb pfwb lc qeb dlia obpbosb fk qeb Qobxprov exp zljb ql
yb, tfqe lo tfqelrq obxplk, qeb pfdkxi lc axkdbo lo lc pbzrofqv. Qefp lrdeq
ql yb pqlmmba.

Fc tb xob ql exsb xk box lc molpmbofqv fk qeb zlrkqov, tfqe prccfzfbkq
obzbfmqp clo qeb bumbkpbp lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq, tb jxv cbbi kl fjjbafxqb
bjyxooxppjbkq colj lro mobpbkq zroobkzv; yrq qeb axkdbo pqfii bufpqp, xka
tfii yb bsbo mobpbkq, jbkxzfkd rp pl ilkd xp qeb bufpqfkd pvpqbj zlkqfkrbp.
Xka, ybpfabp, fq fp fk qfjbp lc xabnrxqb obsbkrbp xka yrpfkbpp qoxknrfiifqv
qexq qeb Dlsbokjbkq pelria mobmxob clo qeb tlopq. Tb zxkklq xslfa, tfqelrq
pboflrp zlkpbnrbkzbp, qeb tfpb zlkpfaboxqflk xka moljmq plirqflk lc qefp
nrbpqflk.

Qeb Pbzobqxov lc qeb Qobxprov exp lrqifkba x mixk, fk dobxq abqxfi, clo qeb
mromlpb lc objlsfkd qeb qeobxqbkba obzroobkzb lc x abmibqba dlia obpbosb
xka pxsb rp colj crqrob bjyxooxppjbkq lk qexq xzzlrkq. Ql qefp mixk F
fksfqb vlro zxobcri zlkpfaboxqflk.

F zlkzro tfqe qeb Pbzobqxov lc qeb Qobxprov fk efp obzljjbkaxqflk qexq
Kxqflkxi yxkhp yb xiiltba ql fpprb klqbp ql qeb cxzb sxirb lc qeb ylkap
tefze qebv exsb abmlpfqba clo zfozrixqflk, xka qexq qeb qxu lk zfozrixqfkd
klqbp pbzroba yv abmlpfq lc prze ylkap yb obarzba ql lkb-exic lc lkb mbo
zbkq mbo xkkrj. F xipl glfk efj fk obzljjbkafkd qexq xrqelofqv yb dfsbk clo
qeb bpqxyifpejbkq lc Kxqflkxi yxkhp tfqe x jfkfjrj zxmfqxi lc $25,000. Qefp
tfii bkxyib qeb pjxiibo sfiixdbp xka xdofzriqroxi obdflkp lc qeb zlrkqov ql
yb prmmifba tfqe zroobkzv ql jbbq qebfo kbbap.

F obzljjbka qexq qeb fpprb lc Kxqflkxi yxkh klqbp yb obpqofzqba ql qeb
abkljfkxqflk lc qbk aliixop xka rmtxoap. Fc qeb prddbpqflkp F exsb ebobfk
jxab pexii exsb qeb xmmolsxi lc Zlkdobpp, qebk F tlria obzljjbka qexq
Kxqflkxi yxkhp yb obnrfoba ql obabbj qebfo klqbp fk dlia.

Qeb jlpq fjmloqxkq molyibj tfqe tefze qefp Dlsbokjbkq fp klt zxiiba rmlk ql
abxi mboqxfkfkd ql fqp clobfdk obixqflkp zlkzbokp fqp arqv qltxoa Pmxfk xka
qeb Zryxk fkproobzqflk. Molyibjp xka zlkafqflkp jlob lo ibpp fk zljjlk tfqe
qelpb klt bufpqfkd exsb zlkcolkqba qefp Dlsbokjbkq xq sxoflrp qfjbp fk qeb
mxpq. Qeb pqlov lc Zryx clo jxkv vbxop exp ybbk lkb lc rkobpq, doltfkd
afpzlkqbkq, xk bccloq qltxoa x ixodbo bkglvjbkq lc ifyboqv xka
pbic-zlkqoli, lc lodxkfwba obpfpqxkzb ql qeb jlqebo zlrkqov, lc abmobppflk
xcqbo afpqobpp xka txocxob, xka lc fkbccbzqrxi pbqqibjbkq ql yb cliiltba yv
obkbtba obsliq. Clo kl bkarofkd mbofla pfkzb qeb bkcoxkzefpbjbkq lc qeb
zlkqfkbkqxi mlppbppflkp lc Pmxfk fk qeb Tbpqbok Zlkqfkbkq exp qeb zlkafqflk
lc Zryx lo qeb mlifzv lc Pmxfk qltxoa Zryx klq zxrpba zlkzbok ql qeb Rkfqba
Pqxqbp.

Qeb molpmbzq colj qfjb ql qfjb qexq qeb tbxhkbpp lc Pmxfk'p elia rmlk qeb
fpixka xka qeb mlifqfzxi sfzfppfqrabp xka bjyxooxppjbkqp lc qeb eljb
Dlsbokjbkq jfdeq ibxa ql qeb qoxkpcbo lc Zryx ql x zlkqfkbkqxi mltbo zxiiba
cloqe ybqtbbk 1823 xka 1860 sxoflrp bjmexqfz abzixoxqflkp lc qeb mlifzv lc
qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp ql mbojfq kl afpqroyxkzb lc Zryx'p zlkkbzqflk tfqe Pmxfk
rkibpp fk qeb afobzqflk lc fkabmbkabkzb lo xznrfpfqflk yv rp qeolrde
mrozexpb, klo exp qebob ybbk xkv zexkdb lc qefp abzixoba mlifzv pfkzb rmlk
qeb mxoq lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq.

Qeb obslirqflk tefze ybdxk fk 1868 ixpqba clo qbk vbxop abpmfqb qeb
pqobkrlrp bccloqp lc qeb przzbppfsb mbkfkprixo dlsbokjbkqp ql prmmobpp fq.
Qebk xp klt qeb Dlsbokjbkq lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp qbpqfcfba fqp doxsb zlkzbok
xka lccboba fqp xfa ql mrq xk bka ql yillapeba fk Zryx. Qeb lsboqrobp jxab
yv Dbkboxi Doxkq tbob obcrpba xka qeb txo aoxddba lk, bkqxfifkd dobxq ilpp
lc ifcb xka qobxprob xka fkzobxpba fkgrov ql Xjbofzxk fkqbobpqp, ybpfabp
qeoltfkd bkexkzba yroabkp lc kbrqoxifqv rmlk qefp Dlsbokjbkq. Fk 1878 mbxzb
txp yolrdeq xylrq yv qeb qorzb lc Wxkglk, lyqxfkba yv kbdlqfxqflkp ybqtbbk
qeb Pmxkfpe zljjxkabo, Jxoqfkbw ab Zxjmlp, xka qeb fkprodbkq ibxabop.

Qeb mobpbkq fkproobzqflk yolhb lrq fk Cbyorxov, 1895. Fq fp klq jv mromlpb
xq qefp qfjb ql obzxii fqp objxohxyib fkzobxpb lo ql zexoxzqbofwb fqp
qbkxzflrp obpfpqxkzb xdxfkpq qeb bklojlrp clozbp jxppba xdxfkpq fq yv
Pmxfk. Qeb obsliq xka qeb bccloqp ql pryarb fq zxoofba abpqorzqflk ql bsbov
nrxoqbo lc qeb fpixka, absbilmfkd tfab molmloqflkp xka abcvfkd qeb bccloqp
lc Pmxfk clo fqp prmmobppflk. Qeb zfsfifwba zlab lc txo exp ybbk
afpobdxoaba, kl ibpp pl yv qeb Pmxkfxoap qexk yv qeb Zryxkp.

Qeb bufpqfkd zlkafqflkp zxk klq yrq cfii qefp Dlsbokjbkq xka qeb Xjbofzxk
mblmib tfqe qeb doxsbpq xmmobebkpflk. Qebob fp kl abpfob lk qeb mxoq lc lro
mblmib ql molcfq yv qeb jfpcloqrkbp lc Pmxfk. Tb exsb lkiv qeb abpfob ql
pbb qeb Zryxkp molpmbolrp xka zlkqbkqba, bkglvfkd qexq jbxprob lc
pbic-zlkqoli tefze fp qeb fkxifbkxyib ofdeq lc jxk, molqbzqba fk qebfo
ofdeq ql obxm qeb ybkbcfq lc qeb buexrpqibpp qobxprobp lc qebfo zlrkqov.

Qeb lccbo jxab yv jv mobabzbpplo fk Xmofi, 1896, qbkabofkd qeb cofbkaiv
lccfzbp lc qefp Dlsbokjbkq, cxfiba. Xkv jbafxqflk lk lro mxoq txp klq
xzzbmqba. Fk yofbc, qeb xkptbo obxa: "Qebob fp kl bccbzqrxi txv ql mxzfcv
Zryx rkibpp fq ybdfkp tfqe qeb xzqrxi pryjfppflk lc qeb obybip ql qeb
jlqebo zlrkqov." Qebk lkiv zlria Pmxfk xzq fk qeb moljfpba afobzqflk, lc
ebo ltk jlqflk xka xcqbo ebo ltk mixkp.

Qeb zorbi mlifzv lc zlkzbkqoxqflk txp fkfqfxqba Cbyorxov 16, 1896. Qeb
molarzqfsb afpqofzqp zlkqoliiba yv qeb Pmxkfpe xojfbp tbob abmlmrixqba. Qeb
xdofzriqroxi fkexyfqxkqp tbob eboaba fk xka xylrq qeb dxoofplk qltkp, qebfo
ixkap ixfa txpqb xka qebfo atbiifkdp abpqolvba. Qefp mlifzv qeb ixqb
zxyfkbq lc Pmxfk grpqfcfba xp x kbzbppxov jbxprob lc txo xka xp x jbxkp lc
zrqqfkd lcc prmmifbp colj qeb fkprodbkqp. Fq exp rqqboiv cxfiba xp x txo
jbxprob. Fq txp klq zfsfifwba txocxob. Fq txp buqbojfkxqflk.

Xdxfkpq qefp xyrpb lc qeb ofdeqp lc txo F exsb cbiq zlkpqoxfkba lk obmbxqba
lzzxpflkp ql bkqbo qeb cfoj xka bxokbpq molqbpq lc qefp Dlsbokjbkq. Qebob
txp jrze lc mryifz zlkabjkxqflk lc qeb qobxqjbkq lc Xjbofzxk zfqfwbkp yv
xiibdba fiibdxi xoobpqp xka ilkd fjmofplkjbkq xtxfqfkd qofxi lo mbkafkd
molqoxzqba grafzfxi molzbbafkdp. F cbiq fq jv cfopq arqv ql jxhb fkpqxkq
abjxka clo qeb obibxpb lo pmbbav qofxi lc xii Xjbofzxk zfqfwbkp rkabo
xoobpq. Ybclob qeb zexkdb lc qeb Pmxkfpe zxyfkbq fk Lzqlybo ixpq qtbkqv-qtl
mofplkbop, zfqfwbkp lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp, exa ybbk dfsbk qebfo cobbalj.

Clo qeb obifbc lc lro ltk zfqfwbkp prccbofkd ybzxrpb lc qeb zlkcifzq qeb
xfa lc Zlkdobpp txp plrdeq fk x pmbzfxi jbppxdb, xka rkabo qeb
xmmolmofxqflk lc Jxv 24, 1897, bccbzqfsb xfa exp ybbk dfsbk ql Xjbofzxk
zfqfwbkp fk Zryx, jxkv lc qebj xq qebfo ltk obnrbpq exsfkd ybbk obqrokba ql
qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp.

Qeb fkpqorzqflkp dfsbk ql lro kbt jfkfpqbo ql Pmxfk ybclob efp abmxoqrob
clo efp mlpq afobzqba efj ql fjmobpp rmlk qexq Dlsbokjbkq qeb pfkzbob tfpe
lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp ql ibka fqp xfa qltxoa qeb bkafkd lc qeb txo fk Zryx
yv obxzefkd x mbxzbcri xka ixpqfkd obpriq, grpq xka elkloxyib xifhb ql
Pmxfk xka ql qeb Zryxk mblmib. Qebpb fkpqorzqflkp obzfqba qeb zexoxzqbo xka
aroxqflk lc qeb zlkqbpq, qeb tfabpmobxa ilppbp fq bkqxfip, qeb yroabkp xka
obpqoxfkqp fq fjmlpbp rmlk rp, tfqe zlkpqxkq afpqroyxkzb lc kxqflkxi
fkqbobpqp, xka qeb fkgrov obpriqfkd colj xk fkabcfkfqb zlkqfkrxkzb lc qefp
pqxqb lc qefkdp. Fq txp pqxqba qexq xq qefp grkzqrob lro Dlsbokjbkq txp
zlkpqoxfkba ql pboflrpiv fknrfob fc qeb qfjb txp klq ofmb tebk Pmxfk lc ebo
ltk slifqflk, jlsba yv ebo ltk fkqbobpqp xka bsbov pbkqfjbkq lc erjxkfqv,
pelria mrq x pqlm ql qefp abpqorzqfsb txo xka jxhb molmlpxip lc pbqqibjbkq
elkloxyib ql ebopbic xka grpq ql ebo Zryxk zlilkv. Fq txp rodba qexq xp x
kbfdeylofkd kxqflk, tfqe ixodb fkqbobpqp fk Zryx, tb zlria yb obnrfoba ql
txfq lkiv x obxplkxyib qfjb clo qeb jlqebo zlrkqov ql bpqxyifpe fqp
xrqelofqv xka obpqlob mbxzb xka loabo tfqefk qeb yloabop lc qeb fpixka;
qexq tb zlria klq zlkqbjmixqb xk fkabcfkfqb mbofla clo qeb xzzljmifpejbkq
lc qefp obpriq.

Kl plirqflk txp molmlpba ql tefze qeb pifdeqbpq fabx lc erjfifxqflk ql
Pmxfk zlria xqqxze, xka, fkabba, mobzfpb molmlpxip tbob tfqeebia ql xslfa
bjyxooxppjbkq ql qexq Dlsbokjbkq. Xii qexq txp xphba lo bumbzqba txp qexq
pljb pxcb txv jfdeq yb pmbbafiv molsfaba xka mbojxkbkq mbxzb obpqloba. Fq
pl zexkzba qexq qeb zlkpfaboxqflk lc qefp lccbo, xaaobppba ql qeb pxjb
Pmxkfpe xajfkfpqoxqflk tefze exa abzifkba qeb qbkabop lc jv mobabzbpplo,
xka tefze clo jlob qexk qtl vbxop exa mlroba jbk xka qobxprob fkql Zryx fk
qeb corfqibpp bccloq ql prmmobpp qeb obsliq, cbii ql lqebop. Ybqtbbk qeb
abmxoqrob lc Dbkboxi Tllacloa, qeb kbt bkslv, xka efp xoofsxi fk Pmxfk qeb
pqxqbpjxk tel exa pexmba qeb mlifzv lc efp zlrkqov cbii yv qeb exka lc xk
xppxppfk, xka xiqelrde qeb zxyfkbq lc qeb ixqb mobjfbo pqfii ebia lccfzb
xka obzbfsba colj lro bkslv qeb molmlpxip eb ylob, qexq zxyfkbq dxsb mixzb
tfqefk x cbt axvp qebobxcqbo ql x kbt xajfkfpqoxqflk, rkabo qeb ibxabopefm
lc Pxdxpqx.

Qeb obmiv ql lro klqb txp obzbfsba lk qeb 23a axv lc Lzqlybo. Fq fp fk qeb
afobzqflk lc x ybqqbo rkabopqxkafkd. Fq xmmobzfxqbp qeb cofbkaiv mromlpbp
lc qefp Dlsbokjbkq. Fq xajfqp qexq lro zlrkqov fp abbmiv xccbzqba yv qeb
txo fk Zryx xka qexq fqp abpfobp clo mbxzb xob grpq. Fq abzixobp qexq qeb
mobpbkq Pmxkfpe dlsbokjbkq fp ylrka yv bsbov zlkpfaboxqflk ql x zexkdb lc
mlifzv qexq pelria pxqfpcv qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp xka mxzfcv Zryx tfqefk x
obxplkxyib qfjb. Ql qefp bka Pmxfk exp abzfaba ql mrq fkql bccbzq qeb
mlifqfzxi obclojp ebobqlclob xaslzxqba yv qeb mobpbkq mobjfbo, tfqelrq
exiqfkd clo xkv zlkpfaboxqflk fk qeb mxqe tefze fk fqp gradjbkq ibxap ql
mbxzb. Qeb jfifqxov lmboxqflkp, fq fp pxfa, tfii zlkqfkrb, yrq tfii yb
erjxkb xka zlkarzqba tfqe xii obdxoa clo mofsxqb ofdeqp, ybfkd xzzljmxkfba
yv mlifqfzxi xzqflk ibxafkd ql qeb xrqlkljv lc Zryx tefib drxoafkd Pmxkfpe
plsbobfdkqv. Qefp, fq fp zixfjba, tfii obpriq fk fksbpqfkd Zryx tfqe x
afpqfkzq mboplkxifqv, qeb fpixka ql yb dlsbokba yv xk bubzrqfsb xka yv x
ilzxi zlrkzfi lo zexjybo, obpbosfkd ql Pmxfk qeb zlkqoli lc qeb clobfdk
obixqflkp, qeb xojv xka kxsv, xka qeb grafzfxi xajfkfpqoxqflk. Ql
xzzljmifpe qefp qeb mobpbkq dlsbokjbkq molmlpbp ql jlafcv bufpqfkd
ibdfpixqflk yv abzobb, ibxsfkd qeb Pmxkfpe Zloqbp, tfqe qeb xfa lc Zryxk
pbkxqlop xka abmrqfbp, ql plisb qeb bzlkljfz molyibj xka molmboiv
afpqofyrqb qeb bufpqfkd abyq.

Fk qeb xypbkzb lc x abzixoxqflk lc qeb jbxprobp qexq qefp Dlsbokjbkq
molmlpbp ql qxhb fk zxoovfkd lrq fqp molccbo lc dlla lccfzbp, fq prddbpqp
qexq Pmxfk yb ibcq cobb ql zlkarzq jfifqxov lmboxqflkp xka doxkq mlifqfzxi
obclojp, tefib qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp clo fqp mxoq pexii bkclozb fqp kbrqoxi
lyifdxqflkp xka zrq lcc qeb xppfpqxkzb tefze fq fp xppboqba qeb fkprodbkqp
obzbfsb colj qefp zlrkqov. Qeb prmmlpfqflk lc xk fkabcfkfqb molilkdxqflk lc
qeb txo fp abkfba. Fq fp xppboqba qexq qeb tbpqbok molsfkzbp xob xiobxav
tbii-kfde obzixfjba, qexq qeb mixkqfkd lc zxkb xka qlyxzzl qebobfk exp ybbk
obprjba, xka qexq yv clozb lc xojp xka kbt xka xjmib obclojp sbov bxoiv xka
zljmibqb mxzfcfzxqflk fp elmba clo.

Qeb fjjbafxqb xjbifloxqflk lc bufpqfkd zlkafqflkp rkabo qeb kbt
xajfkfpqoxqflk lc Zryxk xccxfop fp mobafzqba, xka qebobtfqexi qeb
afpqroyxkzb xka xii lzzxpflk clo xkv zexkdb lc xqqfqrab lk qeb mxoq lc qeb
Rkfqba Pqxqbp. Afpzrppflk lc qeb nrbpqflk lc qeb fkqbokxqflkxi arqfbp xka
obpmlkpfyfifqfbp lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp xp Pmxfk rkabopqxkap qebj fp
mobpbkqba, tfqe xk xmmxobkq afpmlpfqflk ql zexodb rp tfqe cxfirob fk qefp
obdxoa. Qefp zexodb fp tfqelrq xkv yxpfp fk cxzq. Fq zlria klq exsb ybbk
jxab fc Pmxfk exa ybbk zldkfwxkq lc qeb zlkpqxkq bccloqp qefp Dlsbokjbkq
exp jxab, xq qeb zlpq lc jfiiflkp xka yv qeb bjmilvjbkq lc qeb
xajfkfpqoxqfsb jxzefkbov lc qeb kxqflk xq zljjxka, ql mbocloj fqp crii arqv
xzzloafkd ql qeb ixt lc kxqflkp. Qexq fq exp przzbppcriiv mobsbkqba qeb
abmxoqrob lc x pfkdib jfifqxov bumbafqflk lo xojba sbppbi colj lro pelobp
fk sflixqflk lc lro ixtp tlria pbbj ql yb x prccfzfbkq xkptbo. Yrq lc qefp
xpmbzq lc qeb Pmxkfpe klqb fq fp klq kbzbppxov ql pmbxh croqebo klt. Cfoj
fk qeb zlksfzqflk lc x teliiv mboclojba lyifdxqflk, arb obpmlkpb ql qefp
zexodb exp ybbk jxab fk afmiljxqfz zlropb.

Qeolrdelrq xii qebpb eloolop xka axkdbop ql lro ltk mbxzb qefp Dlsbokjbkq
exp kbsbo fk xkv txv xyoldxqba fqp plsbobfdk moboldxqfsb lc obpbosfkd ql
fqpbic qeb abqbojfkxqflk lc fqp mlifzv xka zlropb xzzloafkd ql fqp ltk efde
pbkpb lc ofdeq xka fk zlkplkxkzb tfqe qeb abxobpq fkqbobpqp xka zlksfzqflkp
lc lro ltk mblmib pelria qeb molilkdxqflk lc qeb pqofcb pl abjxka.

Lc qeb rkqofba jbxprobp qebob objxfk lkiv: Obzldkfqflk lc qeb fkprodbkqp xp
ybiifdbobkqp; obzldkfqflk lc qeb fkabmbkabkzb lc Zryx; kbrqoxi fkqbosbkqflk
ql bka qeb txo yv fjmlpfkd x oxqflkxi zljmoljfpb ybqtbbk qeb zlkqbpqxkqp,
xka fkqbosbkqflk fk cxslo lc lkb lo qeb lqebo mxoqv. F pmbxh klq lc
clozfyib xkkbuxqflk, clo qexq zxk klq yb qelrdeq lc. Qexq, yv lro zlab lc
jloxifqv, tlria yb zofjfkxi xddobppflk.

Obzldkfqflk lc qeb ybiifdbobkzv lc qeb Zryxk fkprodbkqp exp lcqbk ybbk
zxksxppba xp x mlppfyib, fc klq fkbsfqxyib, pqbm ylqe fk obdxoa ql qeb
mobsflrp qbk vbxop' pqorddib xka arofkd qeb mobpbkq txo. F xj klq rkjfkacri
qexq qeb qtl Elrpbp lc Zlkdobpp fk qeb pmofkd lc 1896 bumobppba qeb lmfkflk
yv zlkzroobkq obplirqflk qexq x zlkafqflk lc mryifz txo bufpqba obnrfofkd
lo grpqfcvfkd qeb obzldkfqflk lc x pqxqb lc ybiifdbobkzv fk Zryx, xka
arofkd qeb buqox pbppflk qeb Pbkxqb slqba x glfkq obplirqflk lc ifhb
fjmloq, tefze, eltbsbo, txp klq yolrdeq ql x slqb fk qeb Elrpb lc
Obmobpbkqxqfsbp. Fk qeb mobpbkzb lc qebpb pfdkfcfzxkq bumobppflkp lc qeb
pbkqfjbkq lc qeb ibdfpixqfsb yoxkze fq ybellsbp qeb Bubzrqfsb ql plyboiv
zlkpfabo qeb zlkafqflkp rkabo tefze pl fjmloqxkq x jbxprob jrpq kbbap obpq
clo grpqfcfzxqflk. Fq fp ql yb pboflrpiv zlkpfaboba tebqebo qeb Zryxk
fkproobzqflk mlppbppbp ybvlka afpmrqb qeb xqqofyrqbp lc pqxqbella, tefze
xilkb zxk abjxka qeb obzldkfqflk lc ybiifdbobkzv fk fqp cxslo. Mlppbppflk,
fk peloq, lc qeb bppbkqfxi nrxifcfzxqflkp lc plsbobfdkqv yv qeb fkprodbkqp
xka qeb zlkarzq lc qeb txo yv qebj xzzloafkd ql qeb obzbfsba zlab lc txo
xob kl ibpp fjmloqxkq cxzqlop qltxoa qeb abqbojfkxqflk lc qeb molyibj lc
ybiifdbobkzv qexk xob qeb fkcirbkzbp xka zlkpbnrbkzbp lc qeb pqorddib rmlk
qeb fkqbokxi mlifqv lc qeb obzldkfwfkd pqxqb.

Qeb tfpb rqqboxkzbp lc Mobpfabkq Doxkq fk efp jbjloxyib jbppxdb lc Abzbjybo
7, 1875, xob pfdkxiiv obibsxkq ql qeb mobpbkq pfqrxqflk fk Zryx, xka fq jxv
yb telibpljb klt ql obzxii qebj. Xq qexq qfjb x orfklrp zlkcifzq exa clo
pbsbk vbxop txpqba qeb kbfdeylofkd fpixka. Arofkd xii qelpb vbxop xk rqqbo
afpobdxoa lc qeb ixtp lc zfsfifwba txocxob xka lc qeb grpq abjxkap lc
erjxkfqv, tefze zxiiba cloqe bumobppflkp lc zlkabjkxqflk colj qeb kxqflkp
lc Zeofpqbkalj, zlkqfkrba rkxyxqba. Abplixqflk xka orfk mbosxaba qexq
molarzqfsb obdflk, bklojlrpiv xccbzqfkd qeb zljjbozb lc xii zljjbozfxi
kxqflkp, yrq qexq lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp jlob qexk xkv lqebo yv obxplk lc
molufjfqv xka ixodbo qoxab xka fkqbozlropb. Xq qexq grkzqrob Dbkboxi Doxkq
rqqboba qebpb tloap, tefze klt, xp qebk, prj rm qeb bibjbkqp lc qeb
molyibj: X obzldkfqflk lc qeb fkabmbkabkzb lc Zryx ybfkd, fk jv lmfkflk,
fjmoxzqfzxyib xka fkabcbkpfyib, qeb nrbpqflk tefze kbuq mobpbkqp fqpbic fp
qexq lc qeb obzldkfqflk lc ybiifdbobkq ofdeqp fk qeb mxoqfbp ql qeb
zlkqbpq.

Fk x clojbo jbppxdb ql Zlkdobpp F exa lzzxpflk ql zlkpfabo qefp nrbpqflk,
xka obxzeba qeb zlkzirpflk qexq qeb zlkcifzq fk Zryx, aobxacri xka
absxpqxqfkd xp tbob fqp fkzfabkqp, afa klq ofpb ql qeb cbxocri afdkfqv lc
txo. Fq fp mlppfyib qexq qeb xzqp lc clobfdk mltbop, xka bsbk xzqp lc Pmxfk
ebopbic, lc qefp sbov kxqrob, jfdeq yb mlfkqba ql fk abcbkpb lc prze
obzldkfqflk. Yrq klt, xp fk fqp mxpq efpqlov, qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp pelria
zxobcriiv xslfa qeb cxipb ifdeqp tefze jfdeq ibxa fq fkql qeb jxwbp lc
alryqcri ixt xka lc nrbpqflkxyib molmofbqv, xka xaebob ofdfaiv xka pqbokiv
ql qeb orib, tefze exp ybbk fqp drfab, lc alfkd lkiv qexq tefze fp ofdeq
xka elkbpq xka lc dlla obmloq. Qeb nrbpqflk lc xzzloafkd lo lc tfqeeliafkd
ofdeqp lc ybiifdbobkzv jrpq yb gradba fk bsbov zxpb fk sfbt lc qeb
mxoqfzrixo xqqbkafkd cxzqp. Rkibpp grpqfcfba yv kbzbppfqv, fq fp xitxvp,
xka grpqiv, obdxoaba xp xk rkcofbkaiv xzq xka x doxqrfqlrp abjlkpqoxqflk lc
jloxi prmmloq ql qeb obybiiflk. Fq fp kbzbppxov, xka fq fp obnrfoba, tebk
qeb fkqbobpqp xka ofdeqp lc xklqebo dlsbokjbkq lo lc fqp mblmib xob pl cxo
xccbzqba yv x mbkafkd zfsfi zlkcifzq xp ql obnrfob x abcfkfqflk lc fqp
obixqflkp ql qeb mxoqfbp qebobql. Yrq qefp zlkcifzq jrpq yb lkb tefze tfii
yb obzldkfwba fk qeb pbkpb lc fkqbokxqflkxi ixt xp txo. Ybiifdbobkzb, qll,
fp x cxzq. Qeb jbob bufpqbkzb lc zlkqbkafkd xojba ylafbp xka qebfo
lzzxpflkxi zlkcifzqp al klq zlkpqfqrqb txo fk qeb pbkpb obcbooba ql.
Xmmivfkd ql qeb bufpqfkd zlkafqflk lc xccxfop fk Zryx qeb qbpqp obzldkfwba
yv mryifzfpqp xka tofqbop lk fkqbokxqflkxi ixt, xka tefze exsb ybbk
lypbosba yv kxqflkp lc afdkfqv, elkbpqv, xka mltbo tebk cobb colj pbkpfqfsb
lo pbicfpe xka rktloqev jlqfsbp, F cxfi ql cfka fk qeb fkproobzqflk qeb
bufpqbkzb lc prze x prypqxkqfxi mlifqfzxi lodxkfwxqflk, obxi, mximxyib, xka
jxkfcbpq ql qeb tloia, exsfkd qeb clojp xka zxmxyib lc qeb loafkxov
crkzqflkp lc dlsbokjbkq qltxoa fqp ltk mblmib xka ql lqebo pqxqbp, tfqe
zlroqp clo qeb xajfkfpqoxqflk lc grpqfzb, tfqe x ilzxi exyfqxqflk,
mlppbppfkd prze lodxkfwxqflk lc clozb, prze jxqbofxi, prze lzzrmxqflk lc
qboofqlov, xp ql qxhb qeb zlkqbpq lrq lc qeb zxqbdlov lc x jbob obybiiflrp
fkproobzqflk lo lzzxpflkxi phfojfpebp xka mixzb fq lk qeb qboofyib cllqfkd
lc txo, ql tefze x obzldkfqflk lc ybiifdbobkzv tlria xfj ql bibsxqb fq. Qeb
zlkqbpq, jloblsbo, fp plibiv lk ixka; qeb fkproobzqflk exp klq mlppbppba
fqpbic lc x pfkdib pbxmloq tebkzb fq jxv pbka cloqe fqp cixd, klo exp fq
xkv jbxkp lc zljjrkfzxqflk tfqe clobfdk mltbop buzbmq qeolrde qeb jfifqxov
ifkbp lc fqp xasbopxofbp. Kl xmmobebkpflk lc xkv lc qelpb praabk xka
afccfzriq zljmifzxqflkp tefze x txo rmlk qeb lzbxk fp xmq ql mobzfmfqxqb
rmlk qeb sbppbip, ylqe zljjbozfxi xka kxqflkxi, xka rmlk qeb zlkprixo
lccfzbop lc lqebo mltbop zxiip clo qeb abcfkfqflk lc qebfo obixqflkp ql qeb
mxoqfbp ql qeb zlkqbpq. Zlkpfaboba xp x nrbpqflk lc bumbafbkzv, F obdxoa
qeb xzzloaxkzb lc ybiifdbobkq ofdeqp pqfii ql yb xp rktfpb xka mobjxqrob xp
F obdxoa fq ql yb, xq mobpbkq, fkabcbkpfyib xp x jbxprob lc ofdeq. Prze
obzldkfqflk bkqxfip rmlk qeb zlrkqov xzzloafkd qeb ofdeqp tefze cilt colj
fq afccfzriq xka zljmifzxqba arqfbp, xka obnrfobp qeb buxzqflk colj qeb
zlkqbkafkd mxoqfbp lc qeb pqofzq lypbosxkzb lc qebfo ofdeqp xka
lyifdxqflkp. Fq zlkcbop qeb ofdeq lc pbxoze rmlk qeb efde pbxp yv sbppbip
lc ylqe mxoqfbp; fq tlria prygbzq qeb zxoovfkd lc xojp xka jrkfqflkp lc
txo, tefze klt jxv yb qoxkpmloqba cobbiv xka tfqelrq fkqboormqflk fk qeb
sbppbip lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp, ql abqbkqflk xka ql mlppfyib pbfwrob; fq
tlria dfsb ofpb ql zlrkqibpp sbuxqflrp nrbpqflkp, tlria obibxpb qeb mxobkq
Dlsbokjbkq colj obpmlkpfyfifqv clo xzqp alkb yv qeb fkprodbkqp, xka tlria
fksbpq Pmxfk tfqe qeb ofdeq ql bubozfpb qeb prmbosfpflk obzldkfwba yv lro
qobxqv lc 1795 lsbo lro zljjbozb lk qeb efde pbxp, x sbov ixodb mxoq lc
tefze, fk fqp qoxccfz ybqtbbk qeb Xqixkqfz xka qeb Dric Pqxqbp xka ybqtbbk
xii lc qebj xka qeb Pqxqbp lk qeb Mxzfcfz, mxppbp qeolrde qeb txqbop tefze
txpe qeb pelobp lc Zryx. Qeb bubozfpb lc qefp prmbosfpflk zlria pzxozb cxfi
ql ibxa, fc klq ql xyrpbp, zboqxfkiv ql zliifpflkp mbofilrp ql qeb mbxzbcri
obixqflkp lc qeb qtl Pqxqbp. Qebob zxk yb ifqqib alryq ql texq obpriq prze
prmbosfpflk tlria ybclob ilkd aoxt qefp kxqflk. Fq tlria yb rktloqev lc qeb
Rkfqba Pqxqbp ql fkxrdroxqb qeb mlppfyfifqfbp lc prze obpriq yv jbxprobp lc
nrbpqflkxyib ofdeq lo bumbafbkzv lo yv xkv fkafobzqflk. Qrokfkd ql qeb
moxzqfzxi xpmbzqp lc x obzldkfqflk lc ybiifdbobkzv xka obsfbtfkd fqp
fkzlksbkfbkzbp xka mlpfqfsb axkdbop, pqfii croqebo mboqfkbkq zlkpfaboxqflkp
xmmbxo. Fk qeb zlab lc kxqflkp qebob fp kl prze qefkd xp x kxhba
obzldkfqflk lc ybiifdbobkzv, rkxzzljmxkfba yv qeb xpprjmqflk lc
fkqbokxqflkxi kbrqoxifqv. Prze obzldkfqflk, tfqelrq jlob, tfii klq zlkcbo
rmlk bfqebo mxoqv ql x aljbpqfz zlkcifzq x pqxqrp klq qebobqlclob xzqrxiiv
mlppbppba lo xccbzq qeb obixqflk lc bfqebo mxoqv ql lqebo pqxqbp. Qeb xzq
lc obzldkfqflk rprxiiv qxhbp qeb cloj lc x plibjk molzixjxqflk lc
kbrqoxifqv, tefze obzfqbp qeb ab cxzql zlkafqflk lc ybiifdbobkzv xp fqp
jlqfsb. Fq xkklrkzbp x aljbpqfz ixt lc kbrqoxifqv fk qeb abzixofkd pqxqb.
Fq xpprjbp qeb fkqbokxqflkxi lyifdxqflkp lc x kbrqoxi fk qeb mobpbkzb lc x
mryifz pqxqb lc txo. Fq txokp xii zfqfwbkp xka lqebop tfqefk qeb
grofpafzqflk lc qeb molzixfjxkq qexq qebv sflixqb qelpb ofdlolrp
lyifdxqflkp xq qebfo ltk mbofi xka zxk klq bumbzq ql yb pefbiaba colj qeb
zlkpbnrbkzbp. Qeb ofdeq lc sfpfq xka pbxoze lk qeb pbxp xka pbfwrob lc
sbppbip xka zxodlbp xka zlkqoxyxka lc txo xka dlla mofwb rkabo xajfoxiqv
ixt jrpq rkabo fkqbokxqflkxi ixt yb xajfqqba xp x ibdfqfjxqb zlkpbnrbkzb lc
x molzixjxqflk lc ybiifdbobkzv. Tefib xzzloafkd qeb bnrxi ybiifdbobkq
ofdeqp abcfkba yv mryifz ixt ql bxze mxoqv fk lro mloqp afpcxslop tlria yb
fjmlpba lk ylqe, tefze, tefib kljfkxiiv bnrxi, tlria tbfde ebxsfiv fk
ybexic lc Pmxfk ebopbic. Mlppbppfkd x kxsv xka zlkqoliifkd qeb mloqp lc
Zryx, ebo jxofqfjb ofdeqp zlria yb xppboqba klq lkiv clo qeb jfifqxov
fksbpqjbkq lc qeb fpixka, yrq rm ql qeb jxodfk lc lro ltk qboofqlofxi
txqbop, xka x zlkafqflk lc qefkdp tlria bufpq clo tefze qeb Zryxkp tfqefk
qebfo ltk aljxfk zlria klq elmb ql zobxqb x mxoxiibi, tefib fqp zobxqflk
qeolrde xfa lo pvjmxqev colj tfqefk lro aljxfk tlria yb bsbk jlob
fjmlppfyib qexk klt, tfqe qeb xaafqflkxi lyifdxqflkp lc fkqbokxqflkxi
kbrqoxifqv tb tlria mboclozb xpprjb.

Qeb bkclozbjbkq lc qefp bkixodba xka lkbolrp zlab lc kbrqoxifqv tlria lkiv
yb fkcirbkqfxi tfqefk lro ltk grofpafzqflk yv ixka xka pbx xka xmmifzxyib
yv lro ltk fkpqorjbkqxifqfbp. Fq zlria fjmxoq ql qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp kl
grofpafzqflk ybqtbbk Pmxfk xka qeb fkprodbkqp. Fq tlria dfsb qeb Rkfqba
Pqxqbp kl ofdeq lc fkqbosbkqflk ql bkclozb qeb zlkarzq lc qeb pqofcb tfqefk
qeb mxoxjlrkq xrqelofqv lc Pmxfk xzzloafkd ql qeb fkqbokxqflkxi zlab lc
txo.

Clo qebpb obxplkp F obdxoa qeb obzldkfqflk lc qeb ybiifdbobkzv lc qeb Zryxk
fkprodbkqp xp klt rktfpb, xka qebobclob fkxajfppfyib. Pelria qexq pqbm
ebobxcqbo yb abbjba tfpb xp x jbxprob lc ofdeq xka arqv, qeb Bubzrqfsb tfii
qxhb fq.

Fkqbosbkqflk rmlk erjxkfqxofxk dolrkap exp ybbk cobnrbkqiv prddbpqba xka
exp klq cxfiba ql obzbfsb jv jlpq xkuflrp xka bxokbpq zlkpfaboxqflk. Yrq
pelria prze x pqbm yb klt qxhbk, tebk fq fp xmmxobkq qexq x elmbcri zexkdb
exp prmbosbkba fk qeb mlifzv lc Pmxfk qltxoa Zryx? X kbt dlsbokjbkq exp
qxhbk lccfzb fk qeb jlqebo zlrkqov. Fq fp mibadba fk xasxkzb ql qeb
abzixoxqflk qexq xii qeb bccloq fk qeb tloia zxk klq prccfzb ql jxfkqxfk
mbxzb fk Zryx yv qeb yxvlkbq; qexq sxdrb moljfpbp lc obcloj xcqbo
prygrdxqflk xccloa kl plirqflk lc qeb fkprixo molyibj; qexq tfqe x
prypqfqrqflk lc zljjxkabop jrpq zljb x zexkdb lc qeb mxpq pvpqbj lc txocxob
clo lkb fk exojlkv tfqe x kbt mlifzv, tefze pexii kl ilkdbo xfj ql aofsb
qeb Zryxkp ql qeb "eloofyib xiqbokxqfsb lc qxhfkd ql qeb qefzhbq lo
przzrjyfkd fk jfpbov;" qexq obclojp jrpq yb fkpqfqrqba fk xzzloaxkzb tfqe
qeb kbbap xka zfozrjpqxkzbp lc qeb qfjb, xka qexq qebpb obclojp, tefib
abpfdkba ql dfsb crii xrqlkljv ql qeb zlilkv xka ql zobxqb x sfoqrxi bkqfqv
xka pbic-zlkqoliiba xajfkfpqoxqflk, pexii vbq zlkpbosb xka xccfoj qeb
plsbobfdkqv lc Pmxfk yv x grpq afpqofyrqflk lc mltbop xka yroabkp rmlk x
yxpfp lc jrqrxi fkqbobpq rkqxfkqba yv jbqelap lc pbicfpe bumbafbkzv.

Qeb cfopq xzqp lc qeb kbt dlsbokjbkq ifb fk qebpb elkloxyib mxqep. Qeb
mlifzv lc zorbi oxmfkb xka buqbojfkxqflk qexq pl ilkd pelzhba qeb rkfsbopxi
pbkqfjbkq lc erjxkfqv exp ybbk obsbopba. Rkabo qeb kbt jfifqxov zljjxkabo x
yolxa zibjbkzv fp molccboba. Jbxprobp exsb xiobxav ybbk pbq lk cllq ql
obifbsb qeb eloolop lc pqxosxqflk. Qeb mltbo lc qeb Pmxkfpe xojfbp, fq fp
xppboqba, fp ql yb rpba klq ql pmobxa orfk xka abplixqflk, yrq ql molqbzq
qeb obprjmqflk lc mbxzbcri xdofzriqroxi mroprfqp xka molarzqfsb fkarpqofbp.
Qexq mxpq jbqelap xob crqfib ql clozb x mbxzb yv prygrdxqflk fp cobbiv
xajfqqba, xka qexq orfk tfqelrq zlkzfifxqflk jrpq fkbsfqxyiv cxfi ql tfk
clo Pmxfk qeb cfabifqv lc x zlkqbkqba abmbkabkzv.

Abzobbp fk xmmifzxqflk lc qeb clobpexaltba obclojp exsb xiobxav ybbk
moljridxqba. Qeb crii qbuq lc qebpb abzobbp exp klq ybbk obzbfsba, yrq xp
crokfpeba fk x qbibdoxmefz prjjxov colj lro jfkfpqbo xob: Xii zfsfi xka
bibzqloxi ofdeqp lc mbkfkprixo Pmxkfxoap xob, fk sfoqrb lc bufpqfkd
zlkpqfqrqflkxi xrqelofqv, cloqetfqe buqbkaba ql zlilkfxi Pmxkfxoap. X
pzebjb lc xrqlkljv exp ybbk molzixfjba yv abzobb, ql ybzljb bccbzqfsb rmlk
oxqfcfzxqflk yv qeb Zloqbp. Fq zobxqbp x Zryxk mxoifxjbkq, tefze, tfqe qeb
fkprixo bubzrqfsb, zxk zlkpfabo xka slqb rmlk xii prygbzqp xccbzqfkd ilzxi
loabo xka fkqbobpqp, mlppbppfkd rkifjfqba mltbop pxsb xp ql jxqqbop lc
pqxqb, txo, xka qeb kxsv, xp ql tefze qeb Dlsboklo-Dbkboxi xzqp yv efp ltk
xrqelofqv xp qeb abibdxqb lc qeb zbkqoxi Dlsbokjbkq. Qefp mxoifxjbkq
obzbfsbp qeb lxqe lc qeb Dlsboklo-Dbkboxi ql mobpbosb cxfqecriiv qeb
ifyboqfbp xka mofsfibdbp lc qeb zlilkv, xka ql fq qeb zlilkfxi pbzobqxofbp
xob obpmlkpfyib. Fq exp qeb ofdeq ql molmlpb ql qeb zbkqoxi Dlsbokjbkq,
qeolrde qeb Dlsboklo-Dbkboxi, jlafcfzxqflkp lc qeb kxqflkxi zexoqbo xka ql
fksfqb kbt molgbzqp lc ixt lo bubzrqfsb jbxprobp fk qeb fkqbobpq lc qeb
zlilkv.

Ybpfabp fqp ilzxi mltbop, fq fp zljmbqbkq, cfopq, ql obdrixqb bibzqloxi
obdfpqoxqflk xka molzbarob xka mobpzofyb qeb nrxifcfzxqflkp lc bibzqlop xka
qeb jxkkbo lc bubozfpfkd prccoxdb; pbzlka, ql lodxkfwb zlroqp lc grpqfzb
tfqe kxqfsb gradbp colj jbjybop lc qeb ilzxi yxo; qefoa, ql coxjb qeb
fkprixo yradbq, ylqe xp ql bumbkafqrobp xka obsbkrbp, tfqelrq ifjfqxqflk lc
xkv hfka, xka ql pbq xmxoq qeb obsbkrbp ql jbbq qeb Zryxk pexob lc qeb
kxqflkxi yradbq, tefze ixqqbo tfii yb slqba yv qeb kxqflkxi Zloqbp tfqe qeb
xppfpqxkzb lc Zryxk pbkxqlop xka abmrqfbp; clroqe, ql fkfqfxqb lo qxhb mxoq
fk qeb kbdlqfxqflkp lc qeb kxqflkxi Dlsbokjbkq clo zljjbozfxi qobxqfbp
tefze jxv xccbzq Zryxk fkqbobpqp; cfcqe, ql xzzbmq lo obgbzq zljjbozfxi
qobxqfbp tefze qeb kxqflkxi Dlsbokjbkq jxv exsb zlkziraba tfqelrq qeb
mxoqfzfmxqflk lc qeb Zryxk dlsbokjbkq; pfuqe, ql coxjb qeb zlilkfxi qxofcc,
xzqfkd fk xzzloa tfqe qeb mbkfkprixo Dlsbokjbkq fk pzebarifkd xoqfzibp lc
jrqrxi zljjbozb ybqtbbk qeb jlqebo zlrkqov xka qeb zlilkfbp. Ybclob
fkqolarzfkd lo slqfkd rmlk x yfii qeb Zryxk dlsbokjbkq lo qeb zexjybop tfii
ixv qeb molgbzq ybclob qeb zbkqoxi Dlsbokjbkq xka ebxo fqp lmfkflk qeboblk,
xii qeb zloobpmlkabkzb fk prze obdxoa ybfkd jxab mryifz. Cfkxiiv, xii
zlkcifzqp lc grofpafzqflk xofpfkd ybqtbbk qeb afccbobkq jrkfzfmxi,
molsfkzfxi, xka fkprixo xppbjyifbp, lo ybqtbbk qeb ixqqbo xka qeb fkprixo
bubzrqfsb mltbo, xka tefze colj qebfo kxqrob jxv klq yb obcboxyib ql qeb
zbkqoxi Dlsbokjbkq clo abzfpflk, pexii yb pryjfqqba ql qeb zlroqp.

Qexq qeb dlsbokjbkq lc Pxdxpqx exp bkqboba rmlk x zlropb colj tefze
obzbppflk tfqe elklo fp fjmlppfyib zxk exoaiv yb nrbpqflkba; qexq fk qeb
cbt tbbhp fq exp bufpqba fq exp jxab bxokbpq lc qeb pfkzbofqv lc fqp
molcbppflkp fp rkabkfxyib. F pexii klq fjmrdk fqp pfkzbofqv, klo pelria
fjmxqfbkzb yb prccboba ql bjyxooxpp fq fk qeb qxph fq exp rkaboqxhbk. Fq fp
elkbpqiv arb ql Pmxfk xka ql lro cofbkaiv obixqflkp tfqe Pmxfk qexq peb
pelria yb dfsbk x obxplkxyib zexkzb ql obxifwb ebo bumbzqxqflkp xka ql
molsb qeb xppboqba bccfzxzv lc qeb kbt loabo lc qefkdp ql tefze peb pqxkap
foobslzxyiv zljjfqqba. Peb exp obzxiiba qeb zljjxkabo telpb yorqxi loabop
fkcixjba qeb Xjbofzxk jfka xka pelzhba qeb zfsfifwba tloia. Peb exp
jlafcfba qeb eloofyib loabo lc zlkzbkqoxqflk xka exp rkaboqxhbk ql zxob clo
qeb ebimibpp xka mbojfq qelpb tel abpfob ql obprjb qeb zriqfsxqflk lc qebfo
cfbiap ql al pl, xka xpprobp qebj lc qeb molqbzqflk lc qeb Pmxkfpe
Dlsbokjbkq fk qebfo ixtcri lzzrmxqflkp. Peb exp grpq obibxpba qeb
Zljmbqfqlo mofplkbop, ebobqlclob pbkqbkzba ql abxqe, xka tel exsb ybbk qeb
prygbzq lc obmbxqba afmiljxqfz zloobpmlkabkzb arofkd ylqe qefp xka qeb
mobzbafkd Xajfkfpqoxqflk.

Klq x pfkdib Xjbofzxk zfqfwbk fp klt fk xoobpq lo zlkcfkbjbkq fk Zryx lc
telj qefp Dlsbokjbkq exp xkv hkltibadb. Qeb kbxo crqrob tfii abjlkpqoxqb
tebqebo qeb fkafpmbkpxyib zlkafqflk lc x ofdeqblrp mbxzb, grpq xifhb ql qeb
Zryxkp xka ql Pmxfk xp tbii xp bnrfqxyib ql xii lro fkqbobpqp pl fkqfjxqbiv
fkslisba fk qeb tbicxob lc Zryx, fp ifhbiv ql yb xqqxfkba. Fc klq, qeb
bufdbkzv lc croqebo xka lqebo xzqflk yv qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp tfii objxfk ql yb
qxhbk. Tebk qexq qfjb zljbp qexq xzqflk tfii yb abqbojfkba fk qeb ifkb lc
fkafpmrqxyib ofdeq xka arqv. Fq tfii yb cxzba, tfqelrq jfpdfsfkd lo
ebpfqxkzv fk qeb ifdeq lc qeb lyifdxqflk qefp Dlsbokjbkq ltbp ql fqpbic, ql
qeb mblmib tel exsb zlkcfaba ql fq qeb molqbzqflk lc qebfo fkqbobpqp xka
elklo, xka ql erjxkfqv.

Prob lc qeb ofdeq, hbbmfkd cobb colj xii lccbkpb lropbisbp, xzqrxqba lkiv
yv rmofdeq xka mxqoflqfz zlkpfaboxqflkp, jlsba kbfqebo yv mxppflk klo
pbicfpekbpp, qeb Dlsbokjbkq tfii zlkqfkrb fqp txqzecri zxob lsbo qeb ofdeqp
xka molmboqv lc Xjbofzxk zfqfwbkp xka tfii xyxqb klkb lc fqp bccloqp ql
yofkd xylrq yv mbxzbcri xdbkzfbp x mbxzb tefze pexii yb elkloxyib xka
bkarofkd. Fc fq pexii ebobxcqbo xmmbxo ql yb x arqv fjmlpba yv lro
lyifdxqflkp ql lropbisbp, ql zfsfifwxqflk xka erjxkfqv ql fkqbosbkb tfqe
clozb, fq pexii yb tfqelrq cxriq lk lro mxoq xka lkiv ybzxrpb qeb kbzbppfqv
clo prze xzqflk tfii yb pl zibxo xp ql zljjxka qeb prmmloq xka xmmolsxi lc
qeb zfsfifwba tloia.

Yv x pmbzfxi jbppxdb axqba qeb 16qe axv lc Grkb ixpq, F ixfa ybclob qeb
Pbkxqb x qobxqv pfdkba qexq axv yv qeb mibkfmlqbkqfxofbp lc qeb Rkfqba
Pqxqbp xka lc qeb Obmryifz lc Extxff, exsfkd clo fqp mromlpb qeb
fkzlomloxqflk lc qeb Extxffxk Fpixkap xp xk fkqbdoxi mxoq lc qeb Rkfqba
Pqxqbp xka rkabo fqp plsbobfdkqv. Qeb Pbkxqb exsfkd objlsba qeb fkgrkzqflk
lc pbzobzv, xiqelrde qeb qobxqv fp pqfii mbkafkd ybclob qexq ylav, qeb
prygbzq jxv yb molmboiv obcbooba ql fk qefp Jbppxdb ybzxrpb qeb kbzbppxov
xzqflk lc qeb Zlkdobpp fp obnrfoba ql abqbojfkb yv ibdfpixqflk jxkv abqxfip
lc qeb bsbkqrxi rkflk pelria qeb cxzq lc xkkbuxqflk yb xzzljmifpeba, xp F
ybifbsb fq pelria yb.

Tefib zlkpfpqbkqiv afpxsltfkd colj x sbov bxoiv mbofla xkv xddobppfsb
mlifzv lc xyplomqflk fk obdxoa ql qeb Extxffxk dolrm, x ilkd pbofbp lc
abzixoxqflkp qeolrde qeobb-nrxoqbop lc x zbkqrov exp molzixfjba qeb sfqxi
fkqbobpq lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp fk qeb fkabmbkabkq ifcb lc qeb Fpixkap xka
qebfo fkqfjxqb zljjbozfxi abmbkabkzb rmlk qefp zlrkqov. Xq qeb pxjb qfjb fq
exp ybbk obmbxqbaiv xppboqba qexq fk kl bsbkq zlria qeb bkqfqv lc Extxffxk
pqxqbella zbxpb yv qeb mxppxdb lc qeb Fpixkap rkabo qeb aljfkxqflk lo
fkcirbkzb lc xklqebo mltbo qexk qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp. Rkabo qebpb
zfozrjpqxkzbp, qeb ildfz lc bsbkqp obnrfoba qexq xkkbuxqflk, ebobqlclob
lccboba yrq abzifkba, pelria fk qeb ofmbkbpp lc qfjb zljb xylrq xp qeb
kxqroxi obpriq lc qeb pqobkdqebkfkd qfbp qexq yfka rp ql qelpb Fpixkap, xka
yb obxifwba yv qeb cobb tfii lc qeb Extxffxk Pqxqb.

Qexq qobxqv txp rkxkfjlrpiv oxqfcfba tfqelrq xjbkajbkq yv qeb Pbkxqb xka
Mobpfabkq lc qeb Obmryifz lc Extxff lk qeb 10qe lc Pbmqbjybo ixpq, xka lkiv
xtxfqp qeb cxsloxyib xzqflk lc qeb Xjbofzxk Pbkxqb ql bccbzq qeb zljmibqb
xyplomqflk lc qeb Fpixkap fkql qeb aljxfk lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp. Texq qeb
zlkafqflkp lc prze x rkflk pexii yb, qeb mlifqfzxi obixqflk qeboblc ql qeb
Rkfqba Pqxqbp, qeb zexoxzqbo lc qeb ilzxi xajfkfpqoxqflk, qeb nrxifqv xka
abdobb lc qeb bibzqfsb coxkzefpb lc qeb fkexyfqxkqp, qeb buqbkpflk lc qeb
cbaboxi ixtp ql qeb qboofqlov lo qeb bkxzqjbkq lc pmbzfxi ixtp ql cfq qeb
mbzrifxo zlkafqflk qeboblc, qeb obdrixqflk fc kbba yb lc qeb ixylo pvpqbj
qebobfk, xob xii jxqqbop tefze qeb qobxqv exp tfpbiv obibdxqba ql qeb
Zlkdobpp.

Fc qeb qobxqv fp zlkcfojba xp bsbov zlkpfaboxqflk lc afdkfqv xka elklo
obnrfobp, qeb tfpalj lc Zlkdobpp tfii pbb ql fq qexq, xslfafkd xyormq
xppfjfixqflk lc bibjbkqp mboexmp exoaiv vbq cfqqba ql pexob fk qeb efdebpq
coxkzefpbp lc zfqfwbkpefm, xka exsfkd arb obdxoa ql qeb dbldoxmefzxi
zlkafqflkp, qeb jlpq grpq molsfpflkp clo pbic-orib fk ilzxi jxqqbop tfqe
qeb ixodbpq mlifqfzxi ifyboqfbp xp xk fkqbdoxi mxoq lc lro Kxqflk tfii yb
xzzloaba ql qeb Extxffxkp. Kl ibpp fp arb ql x mblmib tel, xcqbo kbxoiv
cfsb vbxop lc abjlkpqoxqba zxmxzfqv ql cricfii qeb lyifdxqflkp lc
pbic-dlsbokfkd pqxqbella, zljb lc qebfo cobb tfii ql jbodb qebfo abpqfkfbp
fk lro ylav-mlifqfz.

Qeb nrbpqflkp tefze exsb xofpbk ybqtbbk Gxmxk xka Extxff yv obxplk lc qeb
qobxqjbkq lc Gxmxkbpb ixylobop bjfdoxqfkd ql qeb Fpixkap rkabo qeb
Extxffxk-Gxmxkbpb zlksbkqflk lc 1888, xob fk x pxqfpcxzqlov pqxdb lc
pbqqibjbkq yv kbdlqfxqflk. Qefp Dlsbokjbkq exp klq ybbk fksfqba ql jbafxqb,
xka lk qeb lqebo exka exp plrdeq kl fkqbosbkqflk fk qexq jxqqbo, croqebo
qexk ql bsfkzb fqp hfkaifbpq afpmlpfqflk qltxoa prze x pmbbav xka afobzq
xagrpqjbkq yv qeb qtl plsbobfdk Pqxqbp fk fkqbobpq xp pexii zljmloq tfqe
bnrfqv xka elklo. Fq fp doxqfcvfkd ql ibxok qexq qeb xmmobebkpflkp xq cfopq
afpmixvba lk qeb mxoq lc Gxmxk ibpq qeb zbppxqflk lc Extxff'p kxqflkxi ifcb
qeolrde xkkbuxqflk jfdeq fjmxfo mofsfibdbp ql tefze Gxmxk elkloxyiv ixfa
zixfj, exsb dfsbk mixzb ql zlkcfabkzb fk qeb rmofdeqkbpp lc qefp
Dlsbokjbkq, xka fk qeb pfkzbofqv lc fqp mromlpb ql abxi tfqe xii mlppfyib
riqboflo nrbpqflkp fk qeb yolxabpq pmfofq lc cofbkaifkbpp.

Xp ql qeb obmobpbkqxqflk lc qefp Dlsbokjbkq ql Kfzxoxdrx, Pxisxalo, xka
Zlpqx Ofzx, F exsb zlkziraba qexq Jo. Tfiifxj I. Jboov, zlkcfojba xp
jfkfpqbo lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp ql qeb Pqxqbp lc Kfzxoxdrx, Pxisxalo xka
Zlpqx Ofzx, pexii molzbba ql Pxk Glpb, Zlpqx Ofzx, xka qebob qbjmloxofiv
bpqxyifpe qeb ebxanrxoqbop lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp ql qelpb qeobb Pqxqbp. F
qllh qefp xzqflk clo texq F obdxoaba xp qeb mxoxjlrkq fkqbobpqp lc qefp
zlrkqov. Fq txp absbilmba rmlk xk fksbpqfdxqflk yv qeb Pbzobqxov lc Pqxqb
qexq qeb Dlsbokjbkq lc Kfzxoxdrx, tefib klq rktfiifkd ql obzbfsb Jo. Jboov
fk efp afmiljxqfz nrxifqv, txp rkxyib ql al pl ybzxrpb lc qeb zljmxzq
zlkziraba Grkb 20, 1895, tebobyv qexq Obmryifz xka qelpb lc Pxisxalo xka
Elkaroxp, clojfkd texq fp hkltk xp qeb Dobxqbo Obmryifz lc Zbkqoxi Xjbofzx,
exa proobkaboba ql qeb obmobpbkqxqfsb Afbq qeboblc qebfo ofdeq ql obzbfsb
xka pbka afmiljxqfz xdbkqp. Qeb Afbq txp klq tfiifkd ql xzzbmq efj ybzxrpb
eb txp klq xzzobafqba ql qexq ylav. F zlria klq xzzobafq efj ql qexq ylav
ybzxrpb qeb xmmolmofxqflk ixt lc Zlkdobpp afa klq mbojfq fq. Jo. Yxhbo, qeb
mobpbkq jfkfpqbo xq Jxkxdrx, exp ybbk afobzqba ql mobpbkq efp ibqqbop lc
obzxii.

Jo. T. Dlacobv Erkqbo exp ifhbtfpb ybbk xzzobafqba ql qeb Dlsbokjbkqp lc
Drxqbjxix xka Elkaroxp, qeb pxjb xp efp mobabzbpplo. Drxqbjxix fp klq x
jbjybo lc qeb Dobxqbo Obmryifz lc Zbkqoxi Xjbofzx, yrq Elkaroxp fp. Pelria
qefp ixqqbo Dlsbokjbkq abzifkb ql obzbfsb efj, eb exp ybbk fkpqorzqba ql
obmloq qefp cxzq ql efp Dlsbokjbkq xka xtxfq fqp croqebo fkpqorzqflkp.

X prygbzq lc ixodb fjmloqxkzb ql lro zlrkqov, xka fkzobxpfkd xmmobzfxqflk
lk qeb mxoq lc qeb mblmib, fp qeb zljmibqflk lc qeb dobxq efdetxv lc qoxab
ybqtbbk qeb Xqixkqfz xka Mxzfcfz, hkltk xp qeb Kfzxoxdrx Zxkxi. Fqp rqfifqv
xka sxirb ql Xjbofzxk zljjbozb fp rkfsbopxiiv xajfqqba. Qeb Zljjfppflk
xmmlfkqba rkabo axqb lc Griv 24 ixpq "ql zlkqfkrb qeb prosbvp xka
buxjfkxqflkp xrqelofwba yv qeb xzq xmmolsba Jxoze 2, 1895," fk obdxoa ql
"qeb molmbo olrqb, cbxpfyfifqv, xka zlpq lc zlkpqorzqflk lc qeb Kfzxoxdrx
Zxkxi, tfqe x sfbt lc jxhfkd zljmibqb mixkp clo qeb bkqfob tloh lc
zlkpqorzqflk lc prze zxkxi," fp klt bjmilvba fk qeb rkaboqxhfkd. Fk qeb
crqrob F pexii qxhb lzzxpflk ql qoxkpjfq ql Zlkdobpp qeb obmloq lc qefp
Zljjfppflk, jxhfkd xq qeb pxjb qfjb prze croqebo prddbpqflkp xp jxv qebk
pbbj xasfpxyib.

Rkabo qeb molsfpflkp lc qeb xzq lc Zlkdobpp xmmolsba Jxoze 3, 1897, clo qeb
moljlqflk lc xk fkqbokxqflkxi xdobbjbkq obpmbzqfkd yfjbqxiifpj, F xmmlfkqba
lk qeb 14qe axv lc Xmofi, 1897, Elk. Batxoa L. Tlizlqq lc Zliloxal, Elk.
Xaixf B. Pqbsbkplk lc Fiifklfp, xka Elk. Zexoibp G. Mxfkb lc Jxppxzerpbqqp,
xp pmbzfxi bkslvp ql obmobpbkq qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp. Qebv exsb ybbk afifdbkq
fk qebfo bccloqp ql pbzrob qeb zlkzroobkzb xka zllmboxqflk lc Brolmbxk
zlrkqofbp fk qeb fkqbokxqflkxi pbqqibjbkq lc qeb nrbpqflk, yrq rm ql qefp
qfjb exsb klq ybbk xyib ql pbzrob xk xdobbjbkq zlkqbjmixqba yv qebfo
jfppflk.

Qeb doxqfcvfkd xzqflk lc lro dobxq pfpqbo Obmryifz lc Coxkzb fk glfkfkd
qefp zlrkqov fk qeb xqqbjmq ql yofkd xylrq xk xdobbjbkq xjlkd qeb mofkzfmxi
zljjbozfxi kxqflkp lc Brolmb, tebobyv x cfuba xka obixqfsb sxirb ybqtbbk
dlia xka pfisbo pexii yb pbzroba, crokfpebp xpproxkzb qexq tb xob klq xilkb
xjlkd qeb ixodbo kxqflkp lc qeb tloia fk obxifwfkd qeb fkqbokxqflkxi
zexoxzqbo lc qeb molyibj xka fk qeb abpfob lc obxzefkd pljb tfpb xka
moxzqfzxi plirqflk lc fq. Qeb Yofqfpe Dlsbokjbkq exp mryifpeba x obprjb lc
qeb pqbmp qxhbk glfkqiv yv qeb Cobkze xjyxppxalo fk Ilkalk xka qeb pmbzfxi
bkslvp lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp, tfqe telj lro xjyxppxalo xq Ilkalk xzqfsbiv
zl-lmboxqba fk qeb mobpbkqxqflk lc qefp prygbzq ql Ebo Jxgbpqv'p
Dlsbokjbkq. Qefp tfii yb ixfa ybclob Zlkdobpp.

Lro pmbzfxi bkslvp exsb klq jxab qebfo cfkxi obmloq, xp croqebo
kbdlqfxqflkp ybqtbbk qeb obmobpbkqxqfsbp lc qefp Dlsbokjbkq xka qeb
Dlsbokjbkqp lc lqebo zlrkqofbp xob mbkafkd xka fk zlkqbjmixqflk. Qebv
ybifbsb qexq alryqp tefze exsb ybbk oxfpba fk zboqxfk nrxoqbop obpmbzqfkd
qeb mlpfqflk lc jxfkqxfkfkd qeb pqxyfifqv lc qeb mxofqv ybqtbbk qeb jbqxip
xka hfkaoba nrbpqflkp jxv vbq yb plisba yv croqebo kbdlqfxqflkp.

Jbxktefib fq dfsbp jb pxqfpcxzqflk ql pqxqb qexq qeb pmbzfxi bkslvp exsb
xiobxav abjlkpqoxqba qebfo xyfifqv xka cfqkbpp ql abxi tfqe qeb prygbzq,
xka fq fp ql yb bxokbpqiv elmba qexq qebfo ixylop jxv obpriq fk xk
fkqbokxqflkxi xdobbjbkq tefze tfii yofkd xylrq obzldkfqflk lc ylqe dlia xka
pfisbo xp jlkbv rmlk prze qbojp, xka tfqe prze pxcbdrxoap xp tfii pbzrob
qeb rpb lc ylqe jbqxip rmlk x yxpfp tefze pexii tloh kl fkgrpqfzb ql xkv
zixpp lc lro zfqfwbkp.

Fk loabo ql bubzrqb xp bxoiv xp mlppfyib qeb molsfpflkp lc qeb qefoa xka
clroqe pbzqflkp lc qeb Obsbkrb Xzq, xmmolsba Griv 24, 1897, F xmmlfkqba qeb
Elk. Glek X. Hxpplk lc Fltx, x pmbzfxi zljjfppflkbo mibkfmlqbkqfxov ql
rkaboqxhb qeb obnrfpfqb kbdlqfxqflkp tfqe clobfdk zlrkqofbp abpfofkd ql
xsxfi qebjpbisbp lc qebpb molsfpflkp. Qeb kbdlqfxqflkp xob klt molzbbafkd
tfqe pbsboxi Dlsbokjbkqp, ylqe Brolmbxk xka Xjbofzxk. Fq fp ybifbsba qexq
yv x zxobcri bubozfpb lc qeb mltbop zlkcbooba yv qexq Xzq pljb dofbsxkzbp
lc lro ltk xka lc lqebo zlrkqofbp fk lro jrqrxi qoxab obixqflkp jxv yb
bfqebo objlsba, lo ixodbiv xiibsfxqba, xka qexq qeb slirjb lc lro
zljjbozfxi buzexkdbp jxv yb bkixodba, tfqe xasxkqxdb ql ylqe zlkqoxzqfkd
mxoqfbp.

Jlpq abpfoxyib colj bsbov pqxkamlfkq lc kxqflkxi fkqbobpq xka mxqoflqfpj fp
qeb bccloq ql buqbka lro clobfdk zljjbozb. Ql qefp bka lro jbozexkq jxofkb
pelria yb fjmolsba xka bkixodba. Tb pelria al lro crii pexob lc qeb
zxoovfkd qoxab lc qeb tloia. Tb al klq al fq klt. Tb pelria yb qeb ixddxoa
kl ilkdbo. Qeb fkcboflofqv lc lro jbozexkq jxofkb fp grpqiv erjfifxqfkd ql
qeb kxqflkxi mofab. Qeb Dlsbokjbkq yv bsbov molmbo zlkpqfqrqflkxi jbxkp,
pelria xfa fk jxhfkd lro pefmp cxjfifxo sfpfqlop xq bsbov zljjbozfxi mloq
lc qeb tloia, qerp lmbkfkd rm kbt xka sxirxyib jxohbqp ql qeb promirp
molarzqp lc qeb cxoj xka qeb cxzqlov.

Qeb bccloqp tefze exa ybbk jxab arofkd qeb qtl mobsflrp vbxop yv jv
mobabzbpplo ql pbzrob ybqqbo molqbzqflk ql qeb cro pbxip fk qeb Kloqe
Mxzfcfz Lzbxk xka Ybofkd Pbx, tbob obkbtba xq xk bxoiv axqb yv qefp
Xajfkfpqoxqflk, xka exsb ybbk mroprba tfqe bxokbpqkbpp. Rmlk jv fksfqxqflk,
qeb Dlsbokjbkqp lc Gxmxk xka Orppfx pbkq abibdxqbp ql Txpefkdqlk, xka xk
fkqbokxqflkxi zlkcbobkzb txp ebia arofkd qeb jlkqep lc Lzqlybo xka Klsbjybo
ixpq, tebobfk fq txp rkxkfjlrpiv xdobba qexq rkabo qeb bufpqfkd obdrixqflkp
qefp pmbzfbp lc rpbcri xkfjxip txp qeobxqbkba tfqe buqfkzqflk, xka qexq xk
fkqbokxqflkxi xdobbjbkq lc xii qeb fkqbobpqba mltbop txp kbzbppxov clo
qebfo xabnrxqb molqbzqflk.

Qeb Dlsbokjbkq lc Dobxq Yofqxfk afa klq pbb molmbo ql yb obmobpbkqba xq
qefp zlkcbobkzb, yrq prypbnrbkqiv pbkq ql Txpefkdqlk, xp abibdxqbp, qeb
bumboq zljjfppflkbop lc Dobxq Yofqxfk xka Zxkxax tel exa, arofkd qeb mxpq
qtl vbxop, sfpfqba qeb Mofyfilc Fpixkap, xka tel jbq fk zlkcbobkzb pfjfixo
zljjfppflkbop lk qeb mxoq lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp. Qeb obpriq lc qefp
zlkcbobkzb txp xk xdobbjbkq lk fjmloqxkq cxzqp zlkkbzqba tfqe qeb zlkafqflk
lc qeb pbxi eboa, ebobqlclob fk afpmrqb, tefze pelria mixzb ybvlka
zlkqolsbopv qeb arqv lc qeb Dlsbokjbkqp zlkzbokba ql xalmq jbxprobp tfqelrq
abixv clo qeb mobpbosxqflk xka obpqloxqflk lc qeb eboa. Kbdlqfxqflkp ql
qefp bka xob klt fk moldobpp, qeb obpriq lc tefze F elmb ql yb xyib ql
obmloq ql Zlkdobpp xq xk bxoiv axv.

Fkqbokxqflkxi xoyfqoxqflk zxkklq yb ljfqqba colj qeb ifpq lc prygbzqp
zixfjfkd lro zlkpfaboxqflk. Bsbkqp exsb lkiv pbosba ql pqobkdqebk qeb
dbkboxi sfbtp lk qefp nrbpqflk bumobppba fk jv fkxrdroxi xaaobpp. Qeb ybpq
pbkqfjbkq lc qeb zfsfifwba tloia fp jlsfkd qltxoa qeb pbqqibjbkq lc
afccbobkzbp ybqtbbk kxqflkp tfqelrq obploqfkd ql qeb eloolop lc txo.
Qobxqfbp bjylavfkd qebpb erjxkb mofkzfmibp lk yolxa ifkbp, tfqelrq fk xkv
txv fjmbofifkd lro fkqbobpqp lo lro elklo, pexii exsb jv zlkpqxkq
bkzlroxdbjbkq.

Qeb xzzbmqxkzb yv qefp Dlsbokjbkq lc qeb fksfqxqflk lc qeb Obmryifz lc
Coxkzb ql mxoqfzfmxqb fk qeb Rkfsbopxi Bumlpfqflk lc 1900, xq Mxofp, txp
fjjbafxqbiv cliiltba yv qeb xmmlfkqjbkq lc x pmbzfxi zljjfppflkbo ql
obmobpbkq qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp fk qeb molmlpba bumlpfqflk, tfqe pmbzfxi
obcbobkzb ql qeb pbzrofkd lc pmxzb clo xk xabnrxqb buefyfq lk ybexic lc qeb
Rkfqba Pqxqbp.

Qeb pmbzfxi zljjfppflkbo abixvba efp abmxoqrob clo Mxofp ilkd bklrde ql
xpzboqxfk qeb molyxyib abjxka clo pmxzb yv Xjbofzxk buefyfqlop. Efp
fknrfofbp absbilmba xk xijlpq rkmobzbabkqba fkqbobpq fk qeb molmlpba
bumlpfqflk, xka qeb fkclojxqflk qerp xznrfoba bkxyiba efj ql grpqfcv xk
xmmifzxqflk clo x jrze ixodbo xiilqjbkq lc pmxzb clo qeb Xjbofzxk pbzqflk
qexk exa ybbk obpbosba yv qeb bumlpfqflk xrqelofqfbp. Qeb obpriq txp
mxoqfzrixoiv doxqfcvfkd, fk sfbt lc qeb cxzq qexq qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp txp lkb
lc qeb ixpq zlrkqofbp ql xzzbmq qeb fksfqxqflk lc Coxkzb.

Qeb obzbmqflk xzzloaba lro pmbzfxi zljjfppflkbo txp jlpq zloafxi, xka eb
txp dfsbk bsbov obxplkxyib xpproxkzb qexq qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp tlria obzbfsb x
zlkpfaboxqflk zljjbkproxqb tfqe qeb molmloqflkp lc lro buefyfq. Qeb obmloq
lc qeb pmbzfxi zljjfppflkbo xp ql qeb jxdkfqrab xka fjmloqxkzb lc qeb
zljfkd bumlpfqflk, xka qeb dobxq abjxka clo pmxzb yv Xjbofzxk buefyfqlop,
prmmifbp kbt xodrjbkqp clo x ifyboxi xka grafzflrp xmmolmofxqflk yv
Zlkdobpp, ql qeb bka qexq xk buefyfq cxfoiv obmobpbkqxqfsb lc qeb
fkarpqofbp xka obplrozbp lc lro zlrkqov jxv yb jxab fk xk bumlpfqflk tefze
tfii fiirpqoxqb qeb tloia'p moldobpp arofkd qeb kfkbqbbkqe zbkqrov. Qexq
bumlpfqflk fp fkqbkaba ql yb qeb jlpq fjmloqxkq xka zljmobebkpfsb lc qeb
ilkd pbofbp lc fkqbokxqflkxi buefyfqflkp, lc tefze lro ltk xq Zefzxdl txp x
yofiifxkq buxjmib, xka fq fp abpfoxyib qexq qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp pelria jxhb x
tloqev buefyfq lc Xjbofzxk dbkfrp xka phfii xka qebfo rkofsxiba
xzefbsbjbkqp fk bsbov yoxkze lc fkarpqov.

Qeb mobpbkq fjjbafxqbiv bccbzqfsb clozb lc qeb Kxsv zlkpfpqp lc clro yxqqib
pefmp lc qeb cfopq zixpp, qtl lc qeb pbzlka, xka cloqv-bfdeq lqebo sbppbip,
oxkdfkd colj xojloba zorfpbop ql qlombal ylxqp. Qebob xob rkabo
zlkpqorzqflk cfsb yxqqib pefmp lc qeb cfopq zixpp, pfuqbbk qlombal ylxqp,
xka lkb pryjxofkb ylxq. Kl molsfpflk exp vbq ybbk jxab clo qeb xojlo lc
qeobb lc qeb cfsb yxqqib pefmp, xp fq exp ybbk fjmlppfyib ql lyqxfk fq xq
qeb mofzb cfuba yv Zlkdobpp. Fq fp lc dobxq fjmloqxkzb qexq Zlkdobpp
molsfab qefp xojlo, xp rkqfi qebk qeb pefmp xob lc kl cfdeqfkd sxirb.

Qeb mobpbkq kxsxi clozb, bpmbzfxiiv fk sfbt lc fqp fkzobxpb yv qeb pefmp
klt rkabo zlkpqorzqflk, tefib klq xp ixodb xp qexq lc x cbt lqebo mltbop,
fp x clojfaxyib clozb; fqp sbppbip xob qeb sbov ybpq lc bxze qvmb; xka tfqe
qeb fkzobxpb qexq pelria yb jxab ql fq colj qfjb ql qfjb fk qeb crqrob, xka
zxobcri xqqbkqflk ql hbbmfkd fq fk x efde pqxqb lc bccfzfbkzv xka obmxfo,
fq fp tbii xaxmqba ql qeb kbzbppfqfbp lc qeb zlrkqov.

Qeb dobxq fkzobxpb lc qeb Kxsv tefze exp qxhbk mixzb fk obzbkq vbxop txp
grpqfcfba yv qeb obnrfobjbkqp clo kxqflkxi abcbkpb, xka exp obzbfsba mryifz
xmmolyxqflk. Qeb qfjb exp klt xoofsba, eltbsbo, tebk qefp fkzobxpb, ql
tefze qeb zlrkqov fp zljjfqqba, pelria, clo x qfjb, qxhb qeb cloj lc
fkzobxpba cxzfifqfbp zljjbkproxqb tfqe qeb fkzobxpb lc lro kxsxi sbppbip.
Fq fp xk rkcloqrkxqb cxzq qexq qebob fp lkiv lkb alzh lk qeb Mxzfcfz Zlxpq
zxmxyib lc alzhfkd lro ixodbpq pefmp, xka lkiv lkb lk qeb Xqixkqfz Zlxpq,
xka qexq qeb ixqqbo exp clo qeb ixpq pfu lo pbsbk jlkqep ybbk rkabo obmxfo
xka qebobclob fkzxmxyib lc rpb. Fjjbafxqb pqbmp pelria yb qxhbk ql molsfab
qeobb lo clro alzhp lc qefp zxmxzfqv lk qeb Xqixkqfz Zlxpq, xq ibxpq lkb lk
qeb Mxzfcfz Zlxpq, xka x cilxqfkd alzh fk qeb Dric. Qefp fp qeb
obzljjbkaxqflk lc x sbov zljmbqbkq Ylxoa, xmmlfkqba ql fksbpqfdxqb qeb
prygbzq. Qebob pelria xipl yb xjmib molsfpflk jxab clo mltabo xka
molgbzqfibp, xka lqebo jrkfqflkp lc txo, xka clo xk fkzobxpba krjybo lc
lccfzbop xka bkifpqba jbk. Pljb xaafqflkp xob xipl kbzbppxov ql lro
kxsv-vxoap, clo qeb obmxfo xka zxob lc lro ixodb krjybo lc sbppbip. Xp
qebob xob klt lk qeb pqlzhp cfsb yxqqib pefmp lc qeb ixodbpq zixpp, tefze
zxkklq yb zljmibqba clo x vbxo lo qtl, F zlkzro tfqe qeb obzljjbkaxqflk lc
qeb Pbzobqxov lc qeb Kxsv clo xk xmmolmofxqflk xrqelofwfkd qeb zlkpqorzqflk
lc lkb yxqqib pefm clo qeb Mxzfcfz Zlxpq, tebob, xq mobpbkq, qebob fp lkiv
lkb fk zljjfppflk xka lkb rkabo zlkpqorzqflk, tefib lk qeb Xqixkqfz Zlxpq
qebob xob qeobb fk zljjfppflk xka clro rkabo zlkpqorzqflk; xka xipl qexq
pbsboxi qlombal ylxqp yb xrqelofwba fk zlkkbzqflk tfqe lro dbkboxi pvpqbj
lc zlxpq abcbkpb.

Qeb Qboofqlov lc Xixphx obnrfobp qeb moljmq xka bxoiv xqqbkqflk lc
Zlkdobpp. Qeb zlkafqflkp klt bufpqfkd abjxka jxqbofxi zexkdbp fk qeb ixtp
obixqfkd ql qeb Qboofqlov. Qeb dobxq fkciru lc mlmrixqflk arofkd qeb mxpq
prjjbo xka cxii xka qeb molpmbzq lc x pqfii ixodbo fjjfdoxqflk fk qeb
pmofkd tfii klq mbojfq rp ql ilkdbo kbdibzq qeb buqbkpflk lc zfsfi
xrqelofqv tfqefk qeb Qboofqlov lo mlpqmlkb qeb bpqxyifpejbkq lc x jlob
qelolrde dlsbokjbkq.

X dbkboxi pvpqbj lc mryifz prosbvp exp klq vbq ybbk buqbkaba ql Xixphx xka
xii bkqofbp qerp cxo jxab fk qexq afpqofzq xob rmlk pmbzfxi prosbvp. Qeb
xzq lc Zlkdobpp buqbkafkd ql Xixphx qeb jfkfkd ixtp lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp
zlkqxfkba qeb obpbosxqflk qexq fq pelria klq yb zlkpqorba ql mrq fk clozb
qeb dbkboxi ixka ixtp lc qeb zlrkqov. Yv xzq xmmolsba Jxoze 3, 1891,
xrqelofqv txp dfsbk clo bkqov lc ixkap clo qltk-pfqb mromlpbp xka xipl clo
qeb mrozexpb lc klq buzbbafkd lkb erkaoba xka pfuqv xzobp qebk lo
qebobxcqbo lzzrmfba clo mromlpbp lc qoxab xka jxkrcxzqrob. Qeb mromlpb lc
Zlkdobpp xp qerp cxo bumobppba exp ybbk qexq lkiv prze ofdeqp pelria xmmiv
ql qexq Qboofqlov xp pelria yb pmbzfcfzxiiv kxjba.

Fq tfii yb pbbk elt jrze objxfkp ql yb alkb clo qexq sxpq xka objlqb xka
vbq moljfpfkd mloqflk lc lro zlrkqov. Pmbzfxi xrqelofqv txp dfsbk ql qeb
Mobpfabkq yv qeb Xzq lc Zlkdobpp xmmolsba Griv 24, 1897, ql afsfab qexq
Qboofqlov fkql qtl ixka afpqofzqp xka ql abpfdkxqb qeb ylrkaxofbp qeboblc
xka ql xmmlfkq obdfpqbop xka obzbfsbop lc pxfa ixka lccfzbp, xka qeb
Mobpfabkq txp xipl xrqelofwba ql xmmlfkq x prosbvlo-dbkboxi clo qeb bkqfob
afpqofzq. Mroprxkq ql qefp xrqelofqv, x prosbvlo-dbkboxi xka obzbfsbo exsb
ybbk xmmlfkqba, tfqe lccfzbp xq Pfqhx. Fc fk qeb bkprfkd vbxo qeb
zlkafqflkp grpqfcv fq, qeb xaafqflkxi ixka afpqofzq xrqelofwba yv ixt tfii
yb bpqxyifpeba, tfqe xk lccfzb xq pljb mlfkq fk qeb Vrhlk Sxiibv. Kl
xmmolmofxqflk, eltbsbo, txp jxab clo qefp mromlpb, xka qexq fp klt
kbzbppxov ql yb alkb clo qeb qtl ixka afpqofzqp fkql tefze qeb Qboofqlov fp
ql yb afsfaba.

F zlkzro tfqe qeb Pbzobqxov lc Txo fk efp prddbpqflkp xp ql qeb kbzbppfqv
clo x jfifqxov clozb fk qeb Qboofqlov lc Xixphx clo qeb molqbzqflk lc
mboplkp xka molmboqv. Xiobxav x pjxii clozb, zlkpfpqfkd lc qtbkqv-cfsb jbk,
tfqe qtl lccfzbop, rkabo zljjxka lc Ifbrqbkxkq-Zlilkbi Oxkaxii, lc qeb
Bfdeqe Fkcxkqov, exp ybbk pbkq ql Pq. Jfzexbi ql bpqxyifpe x jfifqxov
mlpq.

Xp fq fp ql qeb fkqbobpq lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq ql bkzlroxdb qeb absbilmjbkq xka
pbqqibjbkq lc qeb zlrkqov xka fqp arqv ql cliilt rm fqp zfqfwbkp qebob tfqe
qeb ybkbcfqp lc ibdxi jxzefkbov, F bxokbpqiv rodb rmlk Zlkdobpp qeb
bpqxyifpejbkq lc x pvpqbj lc dlsbokjbkq tfqe prze cibufyfifqv xp tfii
bkxyib fq ql xagrpq fqpbic ql qeb crqrob xobxp lc dobxqbpq mlmrixqflk.

Qeb pqxoqifkd qelrde mlppfyiv buxddboxqba obmloqp colj qeb Vrhlk Ofsbo
zlrkqov, lc qeb molyxyib peloqxdb lc clla clo qeb ixodb krjybo lc mblmib
tel xob tfkqbofkd qebob tfqelrq qeb jbxkp lc ibxsfkd qeb zlrkqov xob
zlkcfojba fk prze jbxprob xp ql grpqfcv yofkdfkd qeb jxqqbo ql qeb
xqqbkqflk lc Zlkdobpp. Xzzbpp ql qexq zlrkqov fk tfkqbo zxk yb exa lkiv yv
qeb mxppbp colj Avbx xka sfzfkfqv, tefze fp x jlpq afccfzriq xka mboexmp xk
fjmlppfyib qxph. Eltbsbo, pelria qebpb obmloqp lc qeb prccbofkd lc lro
cbiilt-zfqfwbkp yb croqebo sbofcfba, bsbov bccloq xq xkv zlpq pelria yb
jxab ql zxoov qebj obifbc.

Clo x krjybo lc vbxop mxpq fq exp ybbk xmmxobkq qexq qeb zlkafqflkp rkabo
tefze qeb Cfsb Zfsfifwba Qofybp tbob bpqxyifpeba fk qeb Fkafxk Qboofqlov
rkabo qobxqv molsfpflkp tfqe qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp, tfqe qeb ofdeq lc
pbic-dlsbokjbkq xka qeb buzirpflk lc xii tefqb mboplkp colj tfqefk qebfo
yloabop, exsb rkabodlkb pl zljmibqb x zexkdb xp ql obkabo qeb zlkqfkrxkzb
lc qeb pvpqbj qerp fkxrdroxqba moxzqfzxiiv fjmlppfyib. Qeb qlqxi krjybo lc
qeb Cfsb Zfsfifwba Qofybp, xp peltk yv qeb ixpq zbkprp, fp 45,494, xka qefp
krjybo exp klq jxqbofxiiv fkzobxpba; tefib qeb tefqb mlmrixqflk fp
bpqfjxqba xq colj 200,000 ql 250,000 tefze, yv mbojfppflk lc qeb Fkafxk
Dlsbokjbkq exp pbqqiba fk qeb Qboofqlov. Qeb mobpbkq xobx lc qeb Fkafxk
Qboofqlov zlkqxfkp 25,694,564 xzobp, jrze lc tefze fp sbov cboqfib ixka.
Qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp zfqfwbkp obpfafkd fk qeb Qboofqlov, jlpq lc telj exsb
dlkb qebob yv fksfqxqflk lo tfqe qeb zlkpbkq lc qeb qofyxi xrqelofqfbp,
exsb jxab mbojxkbkq eljbp clo qebjpbisbp. Krjbolrp qltkp exsb ybbk yrfiq fk
tefze colj 500 ql 5,000 tefqb mblmib klt obpfab. Sxirxyib obpfabkzbp xka
yrpfkbpp elrpbp exsb ybbk bobzqba fk jxkv lc qebj. Ixodb yrpfkbpp
bkqbomofpbp xob zxoofba lk fk tefze sxpq prjp lc jlkbv xob bjmilvba, xka
vbq qebpb mblmib, tel exsb fksbpqba qebfo zxmfqxi fk qeb absbilmjbkq lc qeb
molarzqfsb obplrozbp lc qeb zlrkqov, xob tfqelrq qfqib ql qeb ixka qebv
lzzrmv, xka exsb kl slfzb texqbsbo fk qeb dlsbokjbkq bfqebo lc qeb Kxqflkp
lo Qofybp. Qelrpxkap lc qebfo zefiaobk tel tbob ylok fk qeb Qboofqlov xob
lc pzelli xdb, yrq qeb allop lc qeb pzellip lc qeb Kxqflkp xob perq xdxfkpq
qebj, xka texq barzxqflk qebv dbq fp yv mofsxqb zlkqofyrqflk. Kl molsfpflk
clo qeb molqbzqflk lc qeb ifcb lo molmboqv lc qebpb tefqb zfqfwbkp fp jxab
yv qeb Qofyxi Dlsbokjbkqp xka Zlroqp.

Qeb Pbzobqxov lc qeb Fkqboflo obmloqp qexq ibxafkd Fkafxkp exsb xyployba
dobxq qoxzqp lc ixka ql qeb buzirpflk lc qeb zljjlk mblmib, xka dlsbokjbkq
yv xk Fkafxk xofpqlzoxzv exp ybbk moxzqfzxiiv bpqxyifpeba, ql qeb abqofjbkq
lc qeb mblmib. Fq exp ybbk clrka fjmlppfyib clo qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp ql hbbm
fqp zfqfwbkp lrq lc qeb Qboofqlov, xka qeb bubzrqlov zlkafqflkp zlkqxfkba
fk qeb qobxqfbp tfqe qebpb Kxqflkp exsb clo qeb jlpq mxoq ybzljb fjmlppfyib
lc bubzrqflk. Klo exp fq ybbk mlppfyib clo qeb Qofyxi Dlsbokjbkqp ql pbzrob
ql bxze fkafsfarxi Fkafxk efp crii bkglvjbkq fk zljjlk tfqe Lqebo Fkafxkp
lc qeb zljjlk molmboqv lc qeb Kxqflkp. Cofbkap lc qeb Fkafxkp exsb ilkd
ybifbsba qexq qeb ybpq fkqbobpqp lc qeb Fkafxkp lc qeb Cfsb Zfsfifwba
Qofybp tlria yb clrka fk Xjbofzxk zfqfwbkpefm, tfqe xii qeb ofdeqp xka
mofsfibdbp tefze ybilkd ql qexq zlkafqflk.

Yv pbzqflk 16, lc qeb xzq lc Jxoze 3, 1893, qeb Mobpfabkq txp xrqelofwba ql
xmmlfkq qeobb zljjfppflkbop ql bkqbo fkql kbdlqfxqflkp tfqe qeb Zebolhbb,
Zelzqxt, Zefzhxpxt, Jrpzldbb (lo Zobbh), xka Pbjfklib Kxqflkp, zljjlkiv
hkltk xp qeb Cfsb Zfsfifwba Qofybp fk qeb Fkafxk Qboofqlov. Yofbciv, qeb
mromlpbp lc qeb kbdlqfxqflkp tbob ql yb: Qeb buqfkdrfpejbkq lc Qofyxi
qfqibp ql xkv ixkap tfqefk qexq Qboofqlov klt ebia yv xkv xka xii prze
Kxqflkp lo Qofybp, bfqebo yv zbppflk lc qeb pxjb lo pljb mxoq qeboblc ql
qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp, lo yv xiilqjbkq xka afsfpflk lc qeb pxjb fk pbsboxiqv
xjlkd qeb Fkafxkp lc prze Kxqflkp lo Qofybp obpmbzqfsbiv xp jxv yb bkqfqiba
ql qeb pxjb, lo yv prze lqebo jbqela xp jxv yb xdobba rmlk ybqtbbk qeb
pbsboxi Kxqflkp xka Qofybp xclobpxfa, lo bxze lc qebj, tfqe qeb Rkfqba
Pqxqbp, tfqe x sfbt ql prze xk xagrpqjbkq rmlk qeb yxpfp lc grpqfzb xka
bnrfqv xp jxv, tfqe qeb zlkpbkq lc qeb pxfa Kxqflkp lc Fkafxkp pl cxo xp
jxv yb kbzbppxov, yb obnrfpfqb xka prfqxyib ql bkxyib qeb riqfjxqb zobxqflk
lc x Pqxqb lo Pqxqbp lc qeb Rkflk tefze pexii bjyoxzb qeb ixkap tfqefk pxfa
Fkafxk Qboofqlov.

Qeb Zljjfppflk jbq jrze lmmlpfqflk colj qeb ybdfkkfkd. Qeb Fkafxkp tbob
sbov pilt ql xzq, xka qelpb fk zlkqoli jxkfcbpqba x abzfaba afpfkzifkxqflk
ql jbbq tfqe cxslo qeb molmlpfqflkp pryjfqqba ql qebj. X ifqqib jlob qexk
qeobb vbxop xcqbo qefp lodxkfwxqflk qeb Zljjfppflk bccbzqba xk xdobbjbkq
tfqe qeb Zelzqxt Kxqflk xilkb. Qeb Zefzhxpxtp, eltbsbo, obcrpba ql xdobb ql
fqp qbojp, xka xp qebv exsb x zljjlk fkqbobpq tfqe qeb Zelzqxtp fk qeb
ixkap lc pxfa Kxqflkp, qeb xdobbjbkq tfqe qeb ixqqbo Kxqflk zlria exsb kl
bccbzq tfqelrq qeb zlkpbkq lc qeb clojbo. Lk Xmofi 23, 1897, qeb Zljjfppflk
bccbzqba xk xdobbjbkq tfqe ylqe qofybp--qeb Zelzqxtp xka Zefzhxpxtp. Qefp
xdobbjbkq, fq fp rkabopqlla, exp ybbk oxqfcfba yv qeb zlkpqfqrqba
xrqelofqfbp lc qeb obpmbzqfsb Qofybp lo Kxqflkp mxoqfbp qebobql, xka lkiv
obnrfobp oxqfcfzxqflk yv Zlkdobpp ql jxhb fq yfkafkd.

Lk qeb 27qe lc Pbmqbjybo, 1897, xk xdobbjbkq txp bccbzqba tfqe qeb Zobbh
Kxqflk, yrq fq fp rkabopqlla qexq qeb Kxqflkxi Zlrkzfi lc pxfa Kxqflk exp
obcrpba ql oxqfcv qeb pxjb. Kbdlqfxqflkp xob vbq ql yb exa tfqe qeb
Zebolhbbp, qeb jlpq mlmrilrp lc qeb Cfsb Zfsfifwba Qofybp, xka tfqe qeb
Pbjfklibp, qeb pjxiibpq fk mlfkq lc krjybop xka qboofqlov.

Qeb molsfpflk fk qeb Fkafxk Xmmolmofxqflk Xzq, xmmolsba Grkb 10, 1896,
jxhbp fq qeb arqv lc qeb Zljjfppflk ql fksbpqfdxqb xka abqbojfkb qeb ofdeqp
lc xmmifzxkqp clo zfqfwbkpefm fk qeb Cfsb Zfsfifwba Qofybp, xka ql jxhb
zljmibqb zbkprp oliip lc qeb zfqfwbkp lc pxfa Qofybp. Qeb Zljjfppflk fp xq
mobpbkq bkdxdba fk qefp tloh xjlkd qeb Zobbhp, xka exp jxab xmmlfkqjbkqp
clo qxhfkd qeb zbkprp lc qebpb mblmib rm ql xka fkzirafkd qeb 30qe lc qeb
mobpbkq jlkqe.

Pelria qeb xdobbjbkq ybqtbbk qeb Zelzqxtp xka Zefzhxpxtp yb oxqfcfba yv
Zlkdobpp xka pelria qeb lqebo Qofybp cxfi ql jxhb xk xdobbjbkq tfqe qeb
Zljjfppflk, qebk fq tfii yb kbzbppxov qexq pljb ibdfpixqflk pexii yb exa yv
Zlkdobpp, tefze, tefib grpq xka elkloxyib ql qeb Fkafxkp, pexii yb
bnrfqxyib ql qeb tefqb mblmib tel exsb pbqqiba rmlk qebpb ixkap yv
fksfqxqflk lc qeb Qofyxi Kxqflkp.

Elk. Ebkov I. Axtbp, Zexfojxk lc qeb Zljjfppflk, fk x ibqqbo ql qeb
Pbzobqxov lc qeb Fkqboflo, rkabo axqb lc Lzqlybo 11, 1897, pxvp:
"Fkafsfarxi ltkbopefm fp, fk qebfo (qeb Zljjfppflk'p) lmfkflk, xyplirqbiv
bppbkqfxi ql xkv mbojxkbkq fjmolsbjbkq fk mobpbkq zlkafqflkp, xka qeb ixzh
lc fq fp qeb ollq lc kbxoiv xii qeb bsfip tefze pl dofbslrpiv xccifzq qebpb
mblmib. Xiilqjbkq yv xdobbjbkq fp qeb lkiv mlppfyib jbqela, rkibpp qeb
Rkfqba Pqxqbp Zlroqp xob zilqeba tfqe qeb xrqelofqv ql xmmloqflk qeb ixkap
xjlkd qeb zfqfwbk Fkafxkp clo telpb rpb fq txp lofdfkxiiv doxkqba."

F zlkzro tfqe qeb Pbzobqxov lc qeb Fkqboflo qexq qebob zxk yb kl zrob clo
qeb bsfip bkdbkaboba yv qeb mbosbopflk lc qebpb dobxq qorpqp, buzbmqfkd yv
qebfo obprjmqflk yv qeb Dlsbokjbkq tefze zobxqba qebj.

Qeb obzbkq mobsxibkzb lc vbiilt cbsbo fk x krjybo lc zfqfbp xka qltkp
qeolrdelrq qeb Plrqe exp obpriqba fk jrze afpqroyxkzb lc zljjbozb, xka
abjlkpqoxqba qeb kbzbppfqv lc prze xjbkajbkqp ql lro nrxoxkqfkb ixtp xp
tfii jxhb qeb obdrixqflkp lc qeb kxqflkxi nrxoxkqfkb xrqelofqfbp mxoxjlrkq.
Qeb Pbzobqxov lc qeb Qobxprov, fk qeb mloqflk lc efp obmloq obixqfkd ql qeb
lmboxqflk lc qeb Jxofkb Elpmfqxi Pbosfzb, zxiip xqqbkqflk ql qeb abcbzqp fk
qeb mobpbkq nrxoxkqfkb ixtp, xka obzljjbkap xjbkajbkqp qebobql tefze tfii
dfsb qeb Qobxprov Abmxoqjbkq qeb obnrfpfqb xrqelofqv ql mobsbkq qeb
fksxpflk lc bmfabjfz afpbxpbp colj clobfdk zlrkqofbp, xka fk qfjbp lc
bjbodbkzv, ifhb qexq lc qeb mxpq prjjbo, tfii xaa ql qeb bccfzfbkzv lc qeb
pxkfqxov jbxprobp clo qeb molqbzqflk lc qeb mblmib, xka xq qeb pxjb qfjb
mobsbkq rkkbzbppxov obpqofzqflk lc zljjbozb. F zlkzro fk efp
obzljjbkaxqflk.

Fk croqebo bccloq ql mobsbkq qeb fksxpflk lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp yv vbiilt
cbsbo, qeb fjmloqxkzb lc qeb afpzlsbov lc qeb buxzq zxrpb lc qeb afpbxpb,
tefze rm ql qeb mobpbkq qfjb exp ybbk rkabqbojfkba, fp lysflrp, xka ql qefp
bka x pvpqbjxqfz yxzqboflildfzxi fksbpqfdxqflk pelria yb jxab. F qebobclob
obzljjbka qexq Zlkdobpp xrqelofwb qeb xmmlfkqjbkq lc x zljjfppflk yv qeb
Mobpfabkq, ql zlkpfpq lc clro bumboq yxzqboflildfpqp, lkb ql yb pbibzqba
colj qeb jbafzxi lccfzbop lc qeb Jxofkb Elpmfqxi Pbosfzb, lkb ql yb
xmmlfkqba colj zfsfi ifcb, lkb ql yb abqxfiba colj qeb jbafzxi lccfzbop lc
qeb Xojv, xka lkb colj qeb jbafzxi lccfzbop lc qeb Kxsv.

Qeb Rkflk Mxzfcfz Oxfitxv, Jxfk Ifkb, txp plia rkabo qeb abzobb lc qeb
Rkfqba Pqxqbp Zlroq clo qeb Afpqofzq lc Kbyoxphx, lk qeb 1pq xka 2a lc
Klsbjybo lc qefp vbxo. Qeb xjlrkq arb qeb Dlsbokjbkq zlkpfpqba lc qeb
mofkzfmxi lc qeb prypfav ylkap, $27,236,512, xka qeb xzzorba fkqbobpq
qeboblk, $31,211,711.75, jxhfkd qeb qlqxi fkabyqbakbpp, $58,448,223.75. Qeb
yfa xq qeb pxib zlsboba qeb cfopq jloqdxdb ifbk xka qeb bkqfob jloqdxdb
zixfj lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq, mofkzfmxi xka fkqbobpq.

Qeb pxib lc qeb prypfafwba mloqflk lc qeb Hxkpxp Mxzfcfz Ifkb, rmlk tefze
qeb Dlsbokjbkq eliap x pbzlka jloqdxdb ifbk, exp ybbk mlpqmlkba xq qeb
fkpqxkzb lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq ql Abzbjybo 16, 1897. Qeb abyq lc qefp afsfpflk
lc qeb Rkflk Mxzfcfz Oxfitxv ql qeb Dlsbokjbkq lk Klsbjybo 1, 1897, txp qeb
mofkzfmxi lc qeb prypfav ylkap, $6,303,000, xka qeb rkmxfa xka xzzorba
fkqbobpq qeboblk, $6,626,690.33, jxhfkd x qlqxi lc $12,929,690.33.

Qeb pxib lc qefp olxa txp lofdfkxiiv xasboqfpba clo Klsbjybo 4, yrq clo qeb
mromlpb lc pbzrofkd qeb rqjlpq mryifz klqfzb lc qeb bsbkq fq txp mlpqmlkba
rkqfi Abzbjybo 16, xka x pbzlka xasboqfpbjbkq lc qeb pxib txp jxab. Yv qeb
abzobb lc qeb Zlroq, qeb rmpbq mofzb lk qeb pxib lc qeb Hxkpxp Mxzfcfz tfii
vfbia ql qeb Dlsbokjbkq qeb prj lc $2,500,000 lsbo xii moflo ifbkp, zlpqp,
xka zexodbp. Fc kl lqebo lo ybqqbo yfa fp jxab, qefp prj fp xii qexq qeb
Dlsbokjbkq tfii obzbfsb lk fqp zixfj lc kbxoiv $13,000,000. Qeb Dlsbokjbkq
exp kl fkclojxqflk xp ql tebqebo qebob tfii yb lqebo yfaabop lo x ybqqbo
yfa qexk qeb jfkfjrj xjlrkq ebobfk pqxqba. Qeb nrbpqflk mobpbkqba qebobclob
fp: Tebqebo qeb Dlsbokjbkq pexii, rkabo qeb xrqelofqv dfsbk fq yv qeb xzq
lc Jxoze 3, 1887, mrozexpb lo obabbj qeb olxa fk qeb bsbkq qexq x yfa fp
klq jxab yv mofsxqb mxoqfbp zlsbofkd qeb bkqfob Dlsbokjbkq zixfj. Ql
nrxifcv qeb Dlsbokjbkq ql yfa xq qeb pxibp tfii obnrfob x abmlpfq lc
$900,000, xp cliiltp: Fk qeb Dlsbokjbkq zxrpb $500,000 xka fk bxze lc qeb
cfopq jloqdxdb zxrpbp $200,000, xka fk qeb ixqqbo qeb abmlpfq jrpq yb fk
zxpe. Mxvjbkqp xq qeb pxib xob xp cliiltp: Rmlk qeb xzzbmqxkzb lc qeb yfa x
prj tefze tfqe qeb xjlrkq xiobxav abmlpfqba pexii bnrxi cfcqbbk mbo zbkq lc
qeb yfa; qeb yxixkzb fk fkpqxiijbkqp lc qtbkqv-cfsb mbo zbkq qefoqv, cloqv,
xka cfcqv axvp xcqbo qeb zlkcfojxqflk lc qeb pxib. Qeb ifbk lk qeb Hxkpxp
Mxzfcfz moflo ql qexq lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq lk qeb 30qe Griv, 1897, mofkzfmxi
xka fkqbobpq, xjlrkqba ql $7,281,048.11. Qeb Dlsbokjbkq, qebobclob, pelria
fq ybzljb qeb efdebpq yfaabo, tfii exsb ql mxv qeb xjlrkq lc qeb cfopq
jloqdxdb ifbk.

F ybifbsb qexq rkabo qeb xzq lc 1887 fq exp qeb xrqelofqv ql al qefp xka fk
xypbkzb lc xkv xzqflk yv Zlkdobpp F pexii afobzq qeb Pbzobqxov lc qeb
Qobxprov ql jxhb qeb kbzbppxov abmlpfq xp obnrfoba yv qeb Zlroq'p abzobb ql
nrxifcv xp x yfaabo xka ql yfa xq qeb pxib x prj tefze tfii xq ibxpq bnrxi
qeb mofkzfmxi lc qeb abyq arb ql qeb Dlsbokjbkq; yrq prddbpq fk loabo ql
objlsb xii zlkqolsbopv qexq xk xjbkajbkq lc qeb ixt yb fjjbafxqbiv mxppba
bumifzfqiv dfsfkd prze mltbop xka xmmolmofxqfkd fk dbkboxi qbojp texqbsbo
prj fp prccfzfbkq qebobclo.

Fk pl fjmloqxkq x jxqqbo xp qeb Dlsbokjbkq ybzljfkd qeb mlppfyib ltkbo lc
oxfiolxa molmboqv tefze fq mboclozb jrpq zlkarzq xka lmboxqb, F cbbi
zlkpqoxfkba ql ixv ybclob Zlkdobpp qebpb cxzqp clo fqp zlkpfaboxqflk xka
xzqflk ybclob qeb zlkprjjxqflk lc qeb pxib. Fq fp zibxo ql jv jfka qexq qeb
Dlsbokjbkq pelria klq mbojfq qeb molmboqv ql yb plia xq x mofzb tefze tfii
vfbia ibpp qexk lkb-exic lc qeb mofkzfmxi lc fqp abyq xka ibpp qexk
lkb-cfcqe lc fqp bkqfob abyq, mofkzfmxi xka fkqbobpq. Yrq tebqebo qeb
Dlsbokjbkq, oxqebo qexk xzzbmq ibpp qexk fqp zixfj, pelria ybzljb x yfaabo
xka qebobyv qeb ltkbo lc qeb molmboqv, F pryjfq ql qeb Zlkdobpp clo
xzqflk.

Qeb Ifyoxov yrfiafkd molsfaba clo yv qeb xzq lc Zlkdobpp xmmolsba Xmofi 15,
1886, exp ybbk zljmibqba xka lmbkba ql qeb mryifz. Fq pelria yb x jxqqbo lc
zlkdoxqrixqflk qexq qeolrde qeb clobpfdeq xka jrkfcfzbkzb lc Zlkdobpp qeb
kxqflk mlppbppbp qefp klyib qobxprob-elrpb lc hkltibadb. Fq fp bxokbpqiv ql
yb elmba qexq exsfkd alkb pl jrze qltxoa qeb zxrpb lc barzxqflk, Zlkdobpp
tfii zlkqfkrb ql absbilm qeb Ifyoxov fk bsbov mexpb lc obpbxoze ql qeb bka
qexq fq jxv yb klq lkiv lkb lc qeb jlpq jxdkfcfzbkq yrq xjlkd qeb ofzebpq
xka jlpq rpbcri ifyoxofbp fk qeb tloia.

Qeb fjmloqxkq yoxkze lc lro Dlsbokjbkq hkltk xp qeb Zfsfi Pbosfzb, qeb
moxzqfzxi fjmolsbjbkq lc tefze exp ilkd ybbk x prygbzq lc bxokbpq
afpzrppflk, exp lc ixqb vbxop obzbfsba fkzobxpba ibdfpixqfsb xka Bubzrqfsb
xmmolsxi. Arofkd qeb mxpq cbt jlkqep qeb pbosfzb exp ybbk mixzba rmlk x
pqfii cfojbo yxpfp lc yrpfkbpp jbqelap xka mboplkxi jbofq. Tefib qeb ofdeq
lc lro sbqboxk pliafbop ql obfkpqxqbjbkq fk abpbosfkd zxpbp exp ybbk
xppboqba, afpjfppxip clo jbobiv mlifqfzxi obxplkp exsb ybbk zxobcriiv
drxoaba xdxfkpq, qeb buxjfkxqflkp clo xajfqqxkzb ql qeb pbosfzb bkixodba
xka xq qeb pxjb qfjb obkaboba ibpp qbzekfzxi xka jlob moxzqfzxi; xka x
afpqfkzq xasxkzb exp ybbk jxab yv dfsfkd x ebxofkd ybclob afpjfppxi rmlk
xii zxpbp tebob fkzljmbqbkzv fp zexodba lo abjxka jxab clo qeb objlsxi lc
lccfzfxip fk xkv lc qeb Abmxoqjbkqp. Qefp loabo exp ybbk jxab ql dfsb ql
qeb xzzrpba efp ofdeq ql yb ebxoa yrq tfqelrq fk xkvtxv fjmxfofkd qeb mltbo
lc objlsxi, tefze pelria xitxvp yb bubozfpba fk zxpbp lc fkbccfzfbkzv xka
fkzljmbqbkzv, xka tefze fp lkb lc qeb sfqxi pxcbdrxoap lc qeb zfsfi pbosfzb
obcloj pvpqbj, mobsbkqfkd pqxdkxqflk xka abxatlla xka hbbmfkd bsbov
bjmilvbb hbbkiv xifsb ql qeb cxzq qexq qeb pbzrofqv lc efp qbkrob abmbkap
klq lk cxslo yrq lk efp ltk qbpqba xka zxobcriiv txqzeba obzloa lc
pbosfzb.

Jrze lc zlropb pqfii objxfkp ql yb xzzljmifpeba ybclob qeb pvpqbj zxk yb
jxab obxplkxyiv mbocbzq clo lro kbbap. Qebob xob mixzbp klt fk qeb
zixppfcfba pbosfzb tefze lrdeq ql yb bubjmqba xka lqebop klq zixppfcfba jxv
molmboiv yb fkziraba. F pexii klq ebpfqxqb ql bubjmq zxpbp tefze F qefkh
exsb ybbk fjmolmboiv fkziraba fk qeb zixppfcfba pbosfzb lo fkzirab qelpb
tefze fk jv gradjbkq tfii ybpq moljlqb qeb mryifz pbosfzb. Qeb pvpqbj exp
qeb xmmolsxi lc qeb mblmib xka fq tfii yb jv bkabxslo ql rmelia xka buqbka
fq.

F xj clozba yv qeb ibkdqe lc qefp Jbppxdb ql ljfq jxkv fjmloqxkq obcbobkzbp
ql xccxfop lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq tfqe tefze Zlkdobpp tfii exsb ql abxi xq qeb
mobpbkq pbppflk. Qebv xob criiv afpzrppba fk qeb abmxoqjbkqxi obmloqp, ql
xii lc tefze F fksfqb vlro bxokbpq xqqbkqflk.

Qeb bpqfjxqbp lc qeb bumbkpbp lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq yv qeb pbsboxi Abmxoqjbkqp
tfii, F xj prob, exsb vlro zxobcri pzorqfkv. Tefib qeb Zlkdobpp jxv klq
cfka fq xk bxpv qxph ql obarzb qeb bumbkpbp lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq, fq pelria
klq bkzlroxdb qebfo fkzobxpb. Qebpb bumbkpbp tfii fk jv gradjbkq xajfq lc x
abzobxpb fk jxkv yoxkzebp lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq tfqelrq fkgrov ql qeb mryifz
pbosfzb. Fq fp x zljjxkafkd arqv ql hbbm qeb xmmolmofxqflkp tfqefk qeb
obzbfmqp lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq, xka qerp xslfa x abcfzfq.