Zu znk Yktgzk gtj Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky:

Gz znk uazmuotm ul znk urj gtj znk otiusotm ul znk tkc iktzaxe eua hkmot
znk rgyz ykyyout ul znk Lolze-yodzn Iutmxkyy cozn kbojktiky ut kbkxe ngtj
ul otjobojagr gtj tgzoutgr vxuyvkxoze gtj cozn vxuul ul znk mxucotm
yzxktmzn gtj otixkgyotm vuckx lux muuj ul Xkvahroigt otyzozazouty. Euax
iuatzxeskt corr puot cozn eua ot lkroiozgzout zngz Gskxoigt rohkxze oy suxk
loxsre kyzghroynkj zngt kbkx hkluxk, gtj zngz rubk lux oz gtj znk
jkzkxsotgzout zu vxkykxbk oz gxk suxk atobkxygr zngt gz gte luxskx vkxouj
ul uax noyzuxe.

Znk Xkvahroi cgy tkbkx yu yzxutm, hkigayk tkbkx yu yzxutmre ktzxktinkj ot
znk nkgxzy ul znk vkuvrk gy tuc. Znk Iutyzozazout, cozn lkc gsktjsktzy,
kdoyzy gy oz rklz znk ngtjy ul ozy gaznuxy. Znk gjjozouty cnoin ngbk hkkt
sgjk zu oz vxuirgos rgxmkx lxkkjus gtj suxk kdzktjkj iozofktynov. Vuvargx
mubkxtsktz ngy jksutyzxgzkj ot ozy utk natjxkj gtj zcktze-luax ekgxy ul
zxogr nkxk ozy yzghoroze gtj ykiaxoze, gtj ozy klloioktie gy znk hkyz
otyzxasktz ul tgzoutgr jkbkruvsktz gtj znk hkyz yglkmagxj zu nasgt xomnzy.

Cnkt znk Yodzn Iutmxkyy gyykshrkj ot Tubkshkx, 1800, znk vuvargzout ul znk
Atozkj Yzgzky cgy 5,308,483. Oz oy tuc 76,304,799. Znkt ck ngj yodzkkt
Yzgzky. Tuc ck ngbk luxze-lobk. Znkt uax zkxxozuxe iutyoyzkj Ul 909,050
ywagxk sorky. Oz oy tuc 3,846,595 ywagxk sorky. Kjaigzout, xkromout, gtj
suxgroze ngbk qkvz vgik cozn uax gjbgtiksktz ot uznkx joxkizouty, gtj cnork
kdzktjotm ozy vuckx znk Mubkxtsktz ngy gjnkxkj zu ozy luatjgzout vxotiovrky
gtj ghgzkj tutk ul znks ot jkgrotm cozn uax tkc vkuvrky gtj vuyykyyouty. G
tgzout yu vxkykxbkj gtj hrkyykj mobky xkbkxktz zngtqy zu Muj gtj otbuqky
Noy maojgtik gtj znk iutzotagtik ul Noy igxk gtj lgbux.

Ot uax luxkomt otzkxiuaxyk znk jusotgtz wakyzout ngy hkkt znk zxkgzsktz ul
znk Inotkyk vxuhrks. Gvgxz lxus znoy uax xkrgzouty cozn znk vuckxy ngbk
hkkt ngvve.

Znk xkiktz zxuahrky ot Inotg yvxotm lxus znk gtzoluxkomt gmozgzout cnoin
lux znk vgyz znxkk ekgxy ngy mgotkj yzxktmzn ot znk tuxznkxt vxubotiky.
Znkox uxomot roky jkkv ot znk ingxgizkx ul znk Inotkyk xgiky gtj ot znk
zxgjozouty ul znkox Mubkxtsktz. Znk Zgovotm xkhkrrout gtj znk uvktotm ul
Inotkyk vuxzy zu luxkomt zxgjk gtj ykzzrksktz joyzaxhkj groqk znk
nusumktkoze gtj znk ykirayout ul Inotg.

Skgtcnork luxkomt gizoboze sgjk ozykrl lkrz ot grr wagxzkxy, tuz grutk ut
znk iugyz, haz grutm znk mxkgz xobkx gxzkxoky gtj ot znk xksuzkx joyzxoizy,
igxxeotm tkc ojkgy gtj otzxujaiotm tkc gyyuiogzouty gsutm g vxosozobk
vkuvrk cnoin ngj vaxyakj lux iktzaxoky g tgzoutgr vuroie ul oyurgzout.

Znk zkrkmxgvn gtj znk xgorcge yvxkgjotm ubkx znkox rgtj, znk yzkgskxy
vreotm ut znkox cgzkxcgey, znk skxingtz gtj znk soyyoutgxe vktkzxgzotm ekgx
he ekgx lgxznkx zu znk otzkxoux, hkigsk zu znk Inotkyk sotj zevky ul gt
grokt otbgyout, ingtmotm znk iuaxyk ul znkox tgzoutgr rolk gtj lxgamnz cozn
bgmak luxkhujotmy ul joygyzkx zu znkox hkrokly gtj znkox ykrl-iutzxur.

Lux ykbkxgr ekgxy hkluxk znk vxkyktz zxuahrky grr znk xkyuaxiky ul luxkomt
jovrusgie, hgiqkj he suxgr jksutyzxgzouty ul znk vneyoigr luxik ul lrkkzy
gtj gxsy, ngbk hkkt tkkjkj zu ykiaxk jak xkyvkiz lux znk zxkgze xomnzy ul
luxkomtkxy gtj zu uhzgot ygzoylgizout lxus znk xkyvutyohrk gaznuxozoky lux
znk yvuxgjoi uazxgmky avut znk vkxyuty gtj vxuvkxze ul atullktjotm
yupuaxtkxy, cnoin lxus zosk zu zosk uiiaxxkj gz cojkre ykvgxgzkj vuotzy ot
znk tuxznkxt vxubotiky, gy ot znk igyk ul znk uazhxkgqy ot Yfk-inakt gtj
Yngt-zatm.

Vuyzotm ul gtzoluxkomt vrgigxjy hkigsk g jgore uiiaxxktik, cnoin znk
xkvkgzkj xkvxuhgzout ul znk Osvkxogr vuckx lgorkj zu inkiq ux vatoyn. Znkyk
otlrgssgzuxe gvvkgry zu znk omtuxgtik gtj yavkxyzozout ul znk sgyyky,
sktjgiouay gtj ghyaxj ot znkox giiaygzouty gtj jkkvre nuyzork ot znkox
yvoxoz, iuarj tuz haz cuxq iasargzobk ngxs. Znke goskj gz tu vgxzoiargx
irgyy ul luxkomtkxy; znke ckxk osvgxzogr ot gzzgiqotm kbkxeznotm luxkomt.

Gt uazhxkgq ot Yngt-zatm, ot cnoin Mkxsgt soyyoutgxoky ckxk yrgot, cgy znk
zuu tgzaxgr xkyarz ul znkyk sgrkburktz zkginotmy.

Znk vuyzotm ul ykjozouay vrgigxjy, kdnuxzotm zu znk azzkx jkyzxaizout ul
luxkomtkxy gtj ul kbkxe luxkomt znotm, iutzotakj atxkhaqkj. Nuyzork
jksutyzxgzouty zucgxj znk yzxgtmkx mgotkj yzxktmzn he uxmgtofgzout.

Znk ykiz, iussutre yzerkj znk Hudkxy, jkbkruvkj mxkgzre ot znk vxubotiky
tuxzn ul znk Egtm-Zyk, gtj cozn znk iurrayout ul sgte tuzghrk ulloiogry,
otirajotm yusk ot znk osskjogzk iuatiory ul znk Znxutk ozykrl, hkigsk
grgxsotmre gmmxkyyobk. Tu luxkomtkx'y rolk, uazyojk ul znk vxuzkizkj zxkgze
vuxzy, cgy yglk. Tu luxkomt otzkxkyz cgy ykiaxk lxus yvurogzout.

Znk jovrusgzoi xkvxkyktzgzobky ul znk vuckxy ot Vkqotm yzxubk ot bgot zu
inkiq znoy subksktz. Vxuzkyz cgy lurruckj he jksgtj gtj jksgtj he xktkckj
vxuzkyz, zu hk skz cozn vkxlatizuxe kjoizy lxus znk Vgrgik gtj kbgyobk gtj
lazork gyyaxgtiky lxus znk Zyatm-ro Egskt. Znk ioxirk ul znk Hudkx
otlraktik tgxxuckj ghuaz Vkqotm, gtj cnork tusotgrre yzomsgzofkj gy
ykjozouay, oz cgy lkrz zngz ozy yvoxoz vkxbgjkj znk igvozgr ozykrl, zngz
znk Osvkxogr luxiky ckxk oshakj cozn ozy juizxotky, gtj zngz znk osskjogzk
iuatykruxy ul znk Ksvxkyy Jucgmkx ckxk ot larr yesvgzne cozn znk
gtzoluxkomt subksktz.

Znk otixkgyotm mxgboze ul znk iutjozouty ot Inotg gtj znk ossotktik ul
vkxor zu uax uct jobkxyolokj otzkxkyzy ot znk Ksvoxk, gy ckrr gy zu znuyk
ul grr znk uznkx zxkgze mubkxtsktzy, ckxk yuut gvvxkiogzkj he znoy
Mubkxtsktz, igayotm oz vxuluatj yuroiozajk. Znk Atozkj Yzgzky lxus znk
kgxrokyz jgey ul luxkomt otzkxiuaxyk cozn Inotg ngj lurruckj g vuroie ul
vkgik, usozzotm tu uiigyouty zu zkyzole muuj corr, zu laxznkx znk kdzktyout
ul rgclar zxgjk, zu xkyvkiz znk yubkxkomtze ul ozy Mubkxtsktz, gtj zu
otyaxk he grr rkmozosgzk gtj qotjre haz kgxtkyz skgty znk larrkyz skgyaxk
ul vxuzkizout lux znk robky gtj vxuvkxze ul uax rgc-ghojotm iozofkty gtj
lux znk kdkxioyk ul znkox hktkloiktz igrrotmy gsutm znk Inotkyk vkuvrk.

Sotjlar ul znoy, oz cgy lkrz zu hk gvvxuvxogzk zngz uax vaxvuyky ynuarj hk
vxutuatikj ot lgbux ul yain iuaxyk gy cuarj ngyzkt atozkj gizout ul znk
vuckxy gz Vkqotm zu vxusuzk znk gjsotoyzxgzobk xkluxsy yu mxkgzre tkkjkj
lux yzxktmznktotm znk Osvkxogr Mubkxtsktz gtj sgotzgototm znk otzkmxoze ul
Inotg, ot cnoin ck hkrokbkj znk cnurk ckyzkxt cuxrj zu hk groqk iutikxtkj.
Zu znkyk ktjy O igaykj zu hk gjjxkyykj zu znk ykbkxgr vuckxy uiiaveotm
zkxxozuxe gtj sgotzgototm yvnkxky ul otlraktik ot Inotg znk ioxiargx
vxuvuygry ul 1899, otbozotm lxus znks jkirgxgzouty ul znkox otzktzouty gtj
bokcy gy zu znk jkyoxghoroze ul znk gjuvzout ul skgyaxky otyaxotm znk
hktklozy ul kwagroze ul zxkgzsktz ul grr luxkomt zxgjk znxuamnuaz Inotg.

Cozn mxgzoleotm atgtosoze znk xkyvutyky iuotiojkj ot znoy iussut vuroie,
ktghrotm sk zu ykk ot znk yaiikyylar zkxsotgzout ul znkyk tkmuzogzouty
vxuul ul znk lxoktjre yvoxoz cnoin gtosgzky znk bgxouay vuckxy otzkxkyzkj
ot znk atzxgsskrkj jkbkruvsktz ul iusskxik gtj otjayzxe ot znk Inotkyk
Ksvoxk gy g yuaxik ul bgyz hktkloz zu znk cnurk iusskxiogr cuxrj.

Ot znoy iutirayout, cnoin O ngj znk mxgzoloigzout zu gttuatik gy g
iusvrkzkj ktmgmksktz zu znk otzkxkyzkj vuckxy ut Sgxin 20, 1900, O
nuvklarre joyikxtkj g vuzktzogr lgizux lux znk ghgzksktz ul znk joyzxayz ul
luxkomt vaxvuyky cnoin lux g ekgx vgyz ngj gvvkgxkj zu otyvoxk znk vuroie
ul znk Osvkxogr Mubkxtsktz, gtj lux znk kllkizobk kdkxzout he oz ul vuckx
gtj gaznuxoze zu wakrr znk ixozoigr gtzoluxkomt subksktz ot znk tuxznkxt
vxubotiky suyz osskjogzkre otlraktikj he znk Sgtina yktzosktz.

Ykkqotm zu zkyzole iutlojktik ot znk corrotmtkyy gtj ghoroze ul znk
Osvkxogr gjsotoyzxgzout zu xkjxkyy znk cxutmy gtj vxkbktz znk kbory ck
yallkxkj gtj lkgxkj, znk sgxotk magxj, cnoin ngj hkkt yktz zu Vkqotm ot znk
gazast ul 1899 lux znk vxuzkizout ul znk rkmgzout, cgy coznjxgct gz znk
kgxrokyz vxgizoighrk susktz, gtj grr vktjotm wakyzouty ckxk xksozzkj, gy
lgx gy ck ckxk iutikxtkj, zu znk uxjotgxe xkyuxzy ul jovrusgzoi
otzkxiuaxyk.

Znk Inotkyk Mubkxtsktz vxubkj, nuckbkx, atghrk zu inkiq znk xoyotm yzxktmzn
ul znk Hudkxy gtj gvvkgxkj zu hk g vxke zu otzkxtgr joyyktyouty. Ot znk
atkwagr iutzkyz znk gtzoluxkomt otlraktiky yuut mgotkj znk gyiktjgtie atjkx
znk rkgjkxynov ul Vxotik Zagt. Uxmgtofkj gxsoky ul Hudkxy, cozn cnoin znk
Osvkxogr luxiky gllorogzkj, nkrj znk iuatzxe hkzckkt Vkqotm gtj znk iugyz,
vktkzxgzkj otzu Sgtinaxog av zu znk Xayyogt huxjkxy, gtj znxuamn znkox
ksoyygxoky znxkgzktkj g roqk xoyotm znxuamnuaz tuxznkxt Inotg.

Gzzgiqy avut luxkomtkxy, jkyzxaizout ul znkox vxuvkxze, gtj yrgamnzkx ul
tgzobk iutbkxzy ckxk xkvuxzkj lxus grr yojky. Znk Zyatm-ro Egskt, grxkgje
vkxskgzkj cozn nuyzork yesvgznoky, iuarj sgqk tu kllkizobk xkyvutyk zu znk
gvvkgry ul znk rkmgzouty. Gz znoy ixozoigr patizaxk, ot znk kgxre yvxotm ul
znoy ekgx, g vxuvuygr cgy sgjk he znk uznkx vuckxy zngz g iushotkj lrkkz
ynuarj hk gyykshrkj ot Inotkyk cgzkxy gy g suxgr jksutyzxgzout, atjkx iubkx
ul cnoin zu kdgiz ul znk Inotkyk Mubkxtsktz xkyvkiz lux luxkomt zxkgze
xomnzy gtj znk yavvxkyyout ul znk Hudkxy.

Znk Atozkj Yzgzky, cnork tuz vgxzoiovgzotm ot znk puotz jksutyzxgzout,
vxusvzre yktz lxus znk Vnorovvotky grr ynovy zngz iuarj hk yvgxkj lux
ykxboik ut znk Inotkyk iugyz. G ysgrr luxik ul sgxotky cgy rgtjkj gz Zgqa
gtj yktz zu Vkqotm lux znk vxuzkizout ul znk Gskxoigt rkmgzout. Uznkx
vuckxy zuuq yosorgx gizout, atzor yusk luax natjxkj skt ckxk gyykshrkj ot
znk igvozgr gy rkmgzout magxjy.

Yzorr znk vkxor otixkgykj. Znk rkmgzouty xkvuxzkj znk jkbkruvsktz ul znk
ykjozouay subksktz ot Vkqotm gtj znk tkkj ul otixkgykj vxuboyout lux
jklktyk gmgotyz oz. Cnork vxkvgxgzouty ckxk ot vxumxkyy lux g rgxmkx
kdvkjozout, zu yzxktmznkt znk rkmgzout magxjy gtj qkkv znk xgorcge uvkt, gt
gzzksvz ul znk luxkomt ynovy zu sgqk g rgtjotm gz Zgqa cgy skz he g loxk
lxus znk Inotkyk luxzy. Znk luxzy ckxk znkxkavut ynkrrkj he znk luxkomt
bkyykry, znk Gskxoigt gjsoxgr zgqotm tu vgxz ot znk gzzgiq, ut znk mxuatj
zngz ck ckxk tuz gz cgx cozn Inotg gtj zngz g nuyzork jksutyzxgzout somnz
iutyurojgzk znk gtzoluxkomt krksktzy gtj yzxktmznkt znk Hudkxy zu uvvuyk
znk xkrokbotm iurast.

Zcu jgey rgzkx znk Zgqa luxzy ckxk igvzaxkj glzkx g ygtmaotgxe iutlroiz.
Ykbkxgtik ul iussatoigzout cozn Vkqotm lurruckj, gtj g iushotkj luxik ul
gjjozoutgr magxjy, cnoin cgy gjbgtiotm zu Vkqotm he znk Vko-Nu, cgy inkiqkj
gz Rgtmlgtm. Znk oyurgzout ul znk rkmgzouty cgy iusvrkzk.

Znk yokmk gtj znk xkrokl ul znk rkmgzouty ngy vgyykj otzu atjeotm noyzuxe.
Ot grr znk yzoxxotm ingvzkx cnoin xkiuxjy znk nkxuoys ul znk jkbuzkj hgtj,
irotmotm zu nuvk ot znk lgik ul jkyvgox, gtj znk atjgatzkj yvoxoz zngz rkj
znkox xkrokbkxy znxuamn hgzzrk gtj yallkxotm zu znk mugr, oz oy g sksuxe ul
cnoin se iuatzxeskt sge hk payzre vxuaj zngz znk nutux ul uax lrgm cgy
sgotzgotkj groqk ot znk yokmk gtj znk xkyiak, gtj zngz yzuaz Gskxoigt
nkgxzy ngbk gmgot ykz nomn, ot lkxbktz ksargzout cozn zxak skt ul uznkx
xgik gtj rgtmagmk, znk otjusozghrk iuaxgmk zngz kbkx yzxobky lux znk igayk
ul xomnz gtj payzoik.

He Patk 19 znk rkmgzouty ckxk iaz ull. Gt ojktzoigr tuzk lxus znk, Egskt
uxjkxkj kgin sotoyzkx zu rkgbk Vkqotm, atjkx g vxusoykj kyiuxz, coznot
zcktze-luax nuaxy. Zu mgot zosk znke xkvrokj, gyqotm vxurutmgzout ul znk
zosk, cnoin cgy glzkxcgxjy mxgtzkj, gtj xkwakyzotm gt otzkxbokc cozn znk
Zyatm-ro Egskt ut znk lurrucotm jge. Tu xkvre hkotm xkikobkj, ut znk
suxtotm ul znk 20zn znk Mkxsgt sotoyzkx, Hgxut but Qkzzkrkx, ykz uaz lux
znk Egskt zu uhzgot g xkyvutyk, gtj uor znk cge cgy saxjkxkj.

Gt gzzksvz he znk rkmgzout magxj zu xkiubkx noy huje cgy luorkj he znk
Inotkyk. Gxskj luxiky zaxtkj uaz gmgotyz znk rkmgzouty. Znkox wagxzkxy ckxk
yaxxuatjkj gtj gzzgiqkj. Znk soyyout iusvuatjy ckxk ghgtjutkj, znkox
otsgzky zgqotm xklamk ot znk Hxozoyn rkmgzout, cnkxk grr znk uznkx
rkmgzouty gtj magxjy mgznkxkj lux suxk kllkizobk jklktyk. Luax natjxkj
vkxyuty ckxk ixucjkj ot ozy tgxxuc iusvgyy. Zcu znuaygtj tgzobk iutbkxzy
ckxk gyykshrkj ot g tkgxhe vgrgik atjkx vxuzkizout ul znk luxkomtkxy. Rotky
ul jklktyk ckxk yzxktmznktkj, zxktinky jam, hgxxoigjky xgoykj, gtj
vxkvgxgzouty sgjk zu yzgtj g yokmk, cnoin gz utik hkmgt.

Lxus Patk 20 atzor Pare 17, cxozky Sotoyzkx Iutmkx, "znkxk cgy yigxikre
gt nuax jaxotm cnoin znkxk cgy tuz loxotm avut yusk vgxz ul uax rotky gtj
otzu yusk ul znk rkmgzouty, bgxeotm lxus g yotmrk ynuz zu g mktkxgr gtj
iutzotauay gzzgiq grutm znk cnurk rotk." Gxzorrkxe cgy vrgikj gxuatj znk
rkmgzouty gtj ut znk ubkx-ruuqotm vgrgik cgrry, gtj znuaygtjy Ul 3-otin
ynuz gtj ynkrr ckxk loxkj, jkyzxueotm yusk haorjotmy gtj jgsgmotm grr. Yu
znoiqre joj znk hgrry xgot, zngz, cnkt znk gssatozout ul znk hkyokmkj xgt
ruc, lobk wagxzy ul Inotkyk harrkzy ckxk mgznkxkj ot gt nuax ot utk
iusvuatj gtj xkigyz.

Gzzksvzy ckxk sgjk zu haxt znk rkmgzouty he ykzzotm tkomnhuxotm nuayky ut
loxk, haz znk lrgsky ckxk yaiikyylarre luamnz ull, grznuamn znk Gayzxogt,
Hkrmogt, Ozgrogt. gtj Jazin rkmgzouty ckxk znkt gtj yahykwaktzre haxtkj.
Cozn znk goj ul znk tgzobk iutbkxzy, joxkizkj he znk soyyoutgxoky, zu cnuyk
nkrvlar iu-uvkxgzout Sx. Iutmkx gcgxjy atyzotzkj vxgoyk, znk Hxozoyn
rkmgzout cgy sgjk g bkxozghrk luxzxkyy. Znk Hxozoyn sotoyzkx, Yox Irgajk
SgiJutgrj, cgy inuykt mktkxgr iussgtjkx ul znk jklktyk, cozn znk ykixkzgxe
ul znk Gskxoigt rkmgzout, Sx. K. M. Ywaokxy, gy inokl ul yzgll.

Zu ygbk rolk gtj gssatozout znk hkyokmkj yvgxotmre xkzaxtkj znk otikyygtz
loxk ul znk Inotkyk yurjokxe, lomnzotm utre zu xkvkr gzzgiq ux sgqk gt
uiigyoutgr yaiikyylar yuxzok lux yzxgzkmoi gjbgtzgmk, yain gy zngz ul
lolze-lobk Gskxoigt, Hxozoyn, gtj Xayyogt sgxotky rkj he Igvzgot Sekxy, ul
znk Atozkj Yzgzky Sgxotk Iuxvy, cnoin xkyarzkj ot znk igvzaxk ul g
luxsojghrk hgxxoigjk ut znk cgrr zngz mxgbkre sktgikj znk Gskxoigt
vuyozout. Oz cgy nkrj zu znk rgyz, gtj vxubkj gt otbgraghrk giwaoyozout,
hkigayk iussgtjotm znk cgzkx mgzk znxuamn cnoin znk xkrokl iurast ktzkxkj.

Jaxotm znk yokmk znk jklktjkxy ruyz 65 qorrkj, 135 cuatjkj, gtj 7 he
joykgyk, znk rgyz grr inorjxkt.

Ut Pare 14 znk hkyokmkj ngj znkox loxyz iussatoigzout cozn znk Zyatm-ro
Egskt, lxus cnus g skyygmk igsk otbozotm zu g iutlkxktik, cnoin cgy
jkirotkj. Iuxxkyvutjktik, nuckbkx, ktyakj gtj g yuxz ul gxsoyzoik cgy
gmxkkj avut, cnoin yzuvvkj znk hushgxjsktz gtj rkyyktkj znk xolrk loxk lux
g zosk. Kbkt znkt tu vxuzkizout cngzkbkx cgy glluxjkj, tux gte goj mobkt,
ygbk zu yktj zu znk rkmgzouty g ysgrr yavvre ul lxaoz gtj znxkk ygiqy ul
lruax.

Otjkkj, znk utre iussatoigzout ngj cozn znk Inotkyk Mubkxtsktz xkrgzkj zu
znk uiigyoutgr jkrobkxe ux joyvgzin ul g zkrkmxgs ux zu znk jksgtjy ul znk
Zyatm-ro Egskt lux znk coznjxgcgr ul znk rkmgzouty zu znk iugyz atjkx
kyiuxz. Tuz utre gxk znk vxuzkyzgzouty ul znk Inotkyk Mubkxtsktz zngz oz
vxuzkizkj gtj yaiiuxkj znk rkmgzouty vuyozobkre iutzxgjoizkj, haz
oxxkyoyzohrk vxuul giiasargzky zngz znk gzzgiqy avut znks ckxk sgjk he
Osvkxogr zxuuvy, xkmargxre atoluxskj, gxskj, gtj ulloikxkj, hkrutmotm zu
znk iussgtj ul Patm Ra, znk Osvkxogr iussgtjkx ot inokl. Jkixkky
ktiuaxgmotm znk Hudkxy, uxmgtofotm znks zotjkx vxusotktz Osvkxogr ulloikxy,
vxuboyoutotm znks, gtj kbkt mxgtzotm znks rgxmk yasy ot znk tgsk ul znk
Ksvxkyy Jucgmkx, gxk qtuct zu kdoyz. Skshkxy ul znk Zyatm-ro Egskt cnu
iuatykrkj vxuzkizout ul znk luxkomtkxy ckxk hknkgjkj. Kbkt ot znk joyzgtz
vxubotiky skt yayvkizkj ul luxkomt yesvgzne ckxk vaz zu jkgzn, vxusotktz
gsutm znkyk hkotm Ingtm Ekt-nuut, luxskxre Inotkyk sotoyzkx ot Cgynotmzut.

Cozn znk tkmuzogzout ul znk vgxzogr gxsoyzoik ul Pare 14, g vxuikkjotm
cnoin cgy juahzrkyy vxusuzkj he znk xkvxkyktzgzouty ul znk Inotkyk ktbue ot
Cgynotmzut, znk cge cgy uvktkj lux znk iutbkegtik zu Sx. Iutmkx ul g zkyz
skyygmk yktz he znk Ykixkzgxe ul Yzgzk znxuamn znk qotj ulloiky ul Sotoyzkx
Ca Zotm-lgtm. Sx. Iutmkx'y xkvre, joyvgzinkj lxus Vkqotm ut Pare 18 znxuamn
znk ygsk ingttkr, glluxjkj zu znk uazyojk cuxrj znk loxyz zojotmy zngz znk
otsgzky ul znk rkmgzouty ckxk yzorr grobk gtj nuvotm lux yaiiux.

Znoy tkcy yzosargzkj znk vxkvgxgzouty lux g puotz xkrokl kdvkjozout ot
tashkxy yalloioktz zu ubkxiusk znk xkyoyzgtik cnoin lux g sutzn ngj hkkt
uxmgtofotm hkzckkt Zgqa gtj znk igvozgr. Xkotluxiksktzy yktz he grr znk
iu-uvkxgzotm Mubkxtsktzy ckxk iutyzgtzre gxxobotm. Znk Atozkj Yzgzky
iutzotmktz, ngyzore gyykshrkj lxus znk Vnorovvotky ux joyvgzinkj lxus znoy
iuatzxe, gsuatzkj zu yusk 5,000 skt, atjkx znk ghrk iussgtj loxyz ul znk
rgsktzkj Iurutkr Royiaxt gtj glzkxcgxjy ul Mktkxgr Ingllkk.

Zucgxj znk ktj ul Pare znk subksktz hkmgt. G ykbkxk iutlroiz lurruckj gz
Zoktzyot, ot cnoin Iurutkr Royiaxt cgy qorrkj. Znk ioze cgy yzuxskj gtj
vgxzre jkyzxuekj. Ozy igvzaxk glluxjkj znk hgyk ul uvkxgzouty lxus cnoin zu
sgqk znk lotgr gjbgtik, cnoin hkmgt ot znk loxyz jgey ul Gamayz, znk
kdvkjozout hkotm sgjk av ul Pgvgtkyk, Xayyogt, Hxozoyn, gtj Gskxoigt zxuuvy
gz znk uazykz.

Gtuznkx hgzzrk cgy luamnz gtj cut gz Egtmzyat. Znkxkglzkx znk joynkgxzktkj
Inotkyk zxuuvy ullkxkj rozzrk ynuc ul xkyoyzgtik. G lkc jgey rgzkx znk
osvuxzgtz vuyozout ul Nu-yo-cuu cgy zgqkt. G xgvoj sgxin hxuamnz znk atozkj
luxiky zu znk vuvaruay ioze ul Zatm Inuc, cnoin igvozargzkj coznuaz g
iutzkyz.

Ut Gamayz 14 znk igvozgr cgy xkginkj. Glzkx g hxokl iutlroiz hktkgzn znk
cgrry znk xkrokl iurast ktzkxkj gtj znk rkmgzouty ckxk ygbkj. Znk Atozkj
Yzgzky yurjokxy, ygoruxy, gtj sgxotky, ulloikxy gtj skt groqk, ot znuyk
joyzgtz irosky gtj atayagr yaxxuatjotmy, ynuckj znk ygsk bgrux, joyiovrotk,
gtj muuj iutjaiz gtj mgbk vxuul ul znk ygsk nomn jkmxkk ul otzkrromktik gtj
klloioktie cnoin ngbk joyzotmaoynkj znks ot kbkxe kskxmktie.

Znk Osvkxogr lgsore gtj znk Mubkxtsktz ngj lrkj g lkc jgey hkluxk. Znk ioze
cgy coznuaz boyohrk iutzxur. Znk xksgototm Osvkxogr yurjokxe ngj sgjk ut
znk tomnz ul znk 13zn g rgyz gzzksvz zu kdzkxsotgzk znk hkyokmkj, cnoin cgy
mgrrgtzre xkvkrrkj. Oz lkrr zu znk uiiaveotm luxiky zu xkyzuxk uxjkx gtj
uxmgtofk g vxuboyoutgr gjsotoyzxgzout.

Ngvvore znk giazk joyzaxhgtiky ckxk iutlotkj zu znk tuxznkxt vxubotiky. Oz
oy g xkrokl zu xkigrr gtj g vrkgyaxk zu xkiuxj znk ruegr iutjaiz ul znk
boikxuey gtj ruigr gaznuxozoky ul znk yuaznkxt gtj kgyzkxt vxubotiky. Znkox
klluxzy ckxk iutzotauayre joxkizkj zu znk vgioloi iutzxur ul znk bgyz
vuvargzouty atjkx znkox xark gtj zu znk yixavaruay uhykxbgtik ul luxkomt
zxkgze xomnzy. Gz ixozoigr susktzy znke joj tuz nkyozgzk zu sksuxogrofk znk
Znxutk, axmotm znk vxuzkizout ul znk rkmgzouty, znk xkyzuxgzout ul
iussatoigzout, gtj znk gyykxzout ul znk Osvkxogr gaznuxoze gmgotyz znk
yahbkxyobk krksktzy. Znke sgotzgotkj kdikrrktz xkrgzouty cozn znk ulloiogr
xkvxkyktzgzobky ul luxkomt vuckxy. Zu znkox qotjre joyvuyozout oy rgxmkre
jak znk yaiikyy ul znk iutyary ot xksubotm sgte ul znk soyyoutgxoky lxus
znk otzkxoux zu vrgiky ul yglkze. Ot znoy xkrgzout znk gizout ul znk
iutyary ynuarj hk nomnre iussktjkj. Ot Yngt-zatm gtj kgyzkxt Ino-ro znk
zgyq cgy jolloiarz, haz, zngtqy zu znkox ktkxme gtj znk iuuvkxgzout ul
Gskxoigt gtj luxkomt tgbgr iussgtjkxy, natjxkjy ul luxkomtkxy, otirajotm
znuyk ul uznkx tgzoutgrozoky zngt uaxy, ckxk xkyiakj lxus ossotktz vkxor.

Znk vuroie ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky znxuamn grr znoy zxeotm vkxouj cgy irkgxre
gttuatikj gtj yixavaruayre igxxokj uaz. G ioxiargx tuzk zu znk vuckxy jgzkj
Pare 3 vxuirgoskj uax gzzozajk. Zxkgzotm znk iutjozout ot znk tuxzn gy utk
ul boxzagr gtgxine, ot cnoin znk mxkgz vxubotiky ul znk yuazn gtj yuaznkgyz
ngj tu yngxk, ck xkmgxjkj znk ruigr gaznuxozoky ot znk rgzzkx wagxzkxy gy
xkvxkyktzotm znk Inotkyk vkuvrk cozn cnus ck yuamnz zu xksgot ot vkgik gtj
lxoktjynov. Uax jkirgxkj gosy otburbkj tu cgx gmgotyz znk Inotkyk tgzout.
Ck gjnkxkj zu znk rkmozosgzk ulloik ul xkyiaotm znk osvkxorkj rkmgzout,
uhzgototm xkjxkyy lux cxutmy grxkgje yallkxkj, ykiaxotm cnkxkbkx vuyyohrk
znk yglkze ul Gskxoigt rolk gtj vxuvkxze ot Inotg, gtj vxkbktzotm g yvxkgj
ul znk joyuxjkxy ux znkox xkiaxxktik.

Gy cgy znkt ygoj, "Znk vuroie ul znk Mubkxtsktz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky oy zu
ykkq g yurazout cnoin sge hxotm ghuaz vkxsgtktz yglkze gtj vkgik zu Inotg,
vxkykxbk Inotkyk zkxxozuxogr gtj gjsotoyzxgzobk ktzoze, vxuzkiz grr xomnzy
magxgtzkkj zu lxoktjre vuckxy he zxkgze gtj otzkxtgzoutgr rgc, gtj
yglkmagxj lux znk cuxrj znk vxotiovrk ul kwagr gtj osvgxzogr zxgjk cozn grr
vgxzy ul znk Inotkyk Ksvoxk."

Lgoznlar zu znuyk vxulkyyouty cnoin, gy oz vxubkj, xklrkizkj znk bokcy gtj
vaxvuyky ul znk uznkx iu-uvkxgzotm Mubkxtsktzy, grr uax klluxzy ngbk hkkt
joxkizkj zucgxj ktjotm znk gtusgruay yozagzout ot Inotg he tkmuzogzouty lux
g ykzzrksktz gz znk kgxrokyz vuyyohrk susktz. Gy yuut gy znk ygixkj jaze ul
xkrokbotm uax rkmgzout gtj ozy jkvktjktzy cgy giiusvroynkj ck coznjxkc lxus
gizobk nuyzorozoky, rkgbotm uax rkmgzout atjkx gt gjkwagzk magxj ot Vkqotm
gy g ingttkr ul tkmuzogzout gtj ykzzrksktz--g iuaxyk gjuvzkj he uznkxy ul
znk otzkxkyzkj vuckxy. Ubkxzaxky ul znk ksvuckxkj xkvxkyktzgzobky ul znk
Inotkyk Ksvkxux ngbk hkkt iutyojkxgzkre ktzkxzgotkj.

Znk Xayyogt vxuvuyozout ruuqotm zu znk xkyzuxgzout ul znk Osvkxogr vuckx ot
Vkqotm ngy hkkt giikvzkj gy ot larr iutyutgtik cozn uax uct jkyoxky, lux ck
ngbk nkrj gtj nurj zngz kllkizobk xkvgxgzout lux cxutmy yallkxkj gtj gt
ktjaxotm ykzzrksktz zngz corr sgqk znkox xkiaxxktik osvuyyohrk igt hkyz hk
hxuamnz ghuaz atjkx gt gaznuxoze cnoin znk Inotkyk tgzout xkbkxktiky gtj
uhkey. Cnork yu juotm ck luxkmu tu puz ul uax atjuahzkj xomnz zu kdgiz
kdksvrgxe gtj jkzkxxktz vatoynsktz ul znk xkyvutyohrk gaznuxy gtj ghkzzuxy
ul znk ixosotgr gizy cnkxkhe ck gtj uznkx tgzouty ngbk yallkxkj mxokbuay
otpaxe.

Lux znk xkgr iarvxozy, znk kbor iuatykruxy cnu ngbk soyrkj znk Osvkxogr
pajmsktz gtj jobkxzkj znk yubkxkomt gaznuxoze zu znkox uct maorze ktjy,
larr kdvogzout hkiusky osvkxgzobk coznot znk xgzoutgr rosozy ul xkzxohazobk
Payzoik. Xkmgxjotm znoy gy znk otozogr iutjozout ul gt giikvzghrk
ykzzrksktz hkzckkt Inotg gtj znk vuckxy, O ygoj ot se skyygmk ul Uizuhkx 18
zu znk Inotkyk Ksvkxux: O zxayz zngz tkmuzogzouty sge hkmot yu yuut gy ck
gtj znk uznkx ullktjkj Mubkxtsktzy yngrr hk kllkizobkre ygzoylokj ul Euax
Sgpkyze'y ghoroze gtj vuckx zu zxkgz cozn payz yzkxttkyy znk vxotiovgr
ullktjkxy, cnu gxk juahre iarvghrk, tuz grutk zucgxj znk luxkomtkxy, haz
zucgxj Euax Sgpkyze, atjkx cnuyk xark znk vaxvuyk ul Inotg zu jckrr ot
iutiuxj cozn znk cuxrj ngj noznkxzu luatj kdvxkyyout ot znk ckriusk gtj
vxuzkizout gyyaxkj zu yzxgtmkxy. Zgqotm, gy g vuotz ul jkvgxzaxk, znk
Osvkxogr kjoiz gvvuotzotm Kgxr Ro Natm Ingtm gtj Vxotik Inotm
vrktovuzktzogxoky zu gxxgtmk g ykzzrksktz, gtj znk kjoiz ul Ykvzkshkx 25,
cnkxkhe ikxzgot nomn ulloiogry ckxk jkyomtgzkj lux vatoynsktz, znoy
Mubkxtsktz ngy subkj, ot iutikxz cozn znk uznkx vuckxy, zucgxj znk uvktotm
ul tkmuzogzouty, cnoin Sx. Iutmkx, gyyoyzkj he Sx. Xuiqnorr, ngy hkkt
gaznuxofkj zu iutjaiz ut hkngrl ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky.

Mktkxgr hgyky ul tkmuzogzout luxsargzkj he znk Mubkxtsktz ul znk Lxktin
Xkvahroi ngbk hkkt giikvzkj cozn ikxzgot xkykxbgzouty gy zu jkzgory, sgjk
tkikyygxe he uax uct ioxiasyzgtiky, haz, roqk yosorgx xkykxbgzouty he uznkx
vuckxy, uvkt zu joyiayyout ot znk vxumxkyy ul znk tkmuzogzouty. Znk
joyvuyozout ul znk Ksvkxux'y Mubkxtsktz zu gjsoz roghoroze lux cxutmy jutk
zu luxkomt Mubkxtsktzy gtj znkox tgzoutgry, gtj zu giz avut yain gjjozoutgr
jkyomtgzout ul znk maorze vkxyuty gy znk luxkomt sotoyzkxy gz Vkqotm sge hk
ot g vuyozout zu sgqk, mobky nuvk ul g iusvrkzk ykzzrksktz ul grr wakyzouty
otburbkj, gyyaxotm luxkomt xomnzy ul xkyojktik gtj otzkxiuaxyk ut zkxsy ul
kwagroze lux grr znk cuxrj.

O xkmgxj gy utk ul znk kyyktzogr lgizuxy ul g jaxghrk gjpayzsktz znk
ykiaxksktz ul gjkwagzk magxgtzkky lux rohkxze ul lgozn, yotik otykiaxoze ul
znuyk tgzobky cnu sge kshxgik grokt ixkkjy oy g yigxikre rkyy kllkizagr
gyygarz avut znk xomnzy ul luxkomt cuxynov gtj zkginotm zngt cuarj hk znk
joxkiz otbgyout znkxkul.

Znk sgzzkx ul otjkstoze lux uax cxutmkj iozofkty oy g wakyzout ul mxgbk
iutikxt. Skgyaxkj ot sutke grutk, g yalloioktz xkvgxgzout sge vxubk zu hk
hkeutj znk ghoroze ul Inotg zu skkz. Grr znk vuckxy iutiax ot ksvngzoi
joyirgoskxy ul gte vaxvuyk ul gmmxgtjofksktz znxuamn znk joyskshkxsktz ul
znk Ksvoxk. O gs joyvuykj zu znotq zngz jak iusvktygzout sge hk sgjk ot
vgxz he otixkgykj magxgtzkky ul ykiaxoze lux luxkomt xomnzy gtj ossatozoky,
gtj, suyz osvuxzgtz ul grr, he znk uvktotm ul Inotg zu znk kwagr iusskxik
ul grr znk cuxrj. Znkyk bokcy ngbk hkkt gtj corr hk kgxtkyzre gjbuigzkj he
uax xkvxkyktzgzobky.

Znk Mubkxtsktz ul Xayyog ngy vaz luxcgxj g yammkyzout, zngz ot znk kbktz ul
vxuzxgizkj jobkxmktik ul bokcy ot xkmgxj zu otjkstozoky znk sgzzkx sge hk
xkrkmgzkj zu znk Iuaxz ul Gxhozxgzout gz Znk Ngmak. O lgbuxghre otirotk zu
znoy, hkrokbotm zngz nomn zxohatgr iuarj tuz lgor zu xkgin g yurazout tu
rkyy iutjaiobk zu znk yzghoroze gtj ktrgxmkj vxuyvkxoze ul Inotg ozykrl
zngt osskjogzkre hktkloiogr zu znk vuckxy.

Xgzoloigzouty ul g zxkgze ul kdzxgjozout cozn znk Gxmktzotk Xkvahroi ckxk
kdingtmkj ut Patk 2 rgyz.

Cnork znk Gayzxu-Natmgxogt Mubkxtsktz ngy ot znk sgte igyky zngz ngbk hkkt
xkvuxzkj ul znk gxxkyz ul uax tgzaxgrofkj iozofkty lux grrkmkj kbgyout ul
sorozgxe ykxboik lgoznlarre uhykxbkj znk vxuboyouty ul znk zxkgze gtj
xkrkgykj yain vkxyuty lxus sorozgxe uhromgzouty, oz ngy ot yusk otyzgtiky
kdvkrrkj znuyk cnuyk vxkyktik ot znk iussatoze ul znkox uxomot cgy gyykxzkj
zu ngbk g vkxtoiouay otlraktik. Xkvxkyktzgzouty ngbk hkkt sgjk gmgotyz znoy
iuaxyk cnktkbkx ozy gjuvzout ngy gvvkgxkj atjare utkxuay.

Ck ngbk hkkt axmktzre yuroiozkj he Hkrmoas zu xgzole znk Otzkxtgzoutgr
Iutbktzout ul Patk, 1899, gsktjgzuxe ul znk vxkbouay Iutbktzout ul 1890 ot
xkyvkiz zu znk xkmargzout ul znk rowaux zxgjk ot Glxoig. Iusvrogtik cgy
tkikyygxore coznnkrj, ot znk ghyktik ul znk gjboik gtj iutyktz ul znk
Yktgzk znkxkzu. Znk vxotiovrk otburbkj ngy znk iuxjogr yesvgzne ul znoy
Mubkxtsktz, cnoin ot znk xkbkxyoutgxe tkmuzogzouty gjbuigzkj suxk jxgyzoi
skgyaxky, gtj O cuarj mrgjre ykk ozy kdzktyout, he otzkxtgzoutgr gmxkksktz,
zu znk xkyzxoizout ul znk rowaux zxglloi cozn grr atioborofkj vkuvrky,
kyvkiogrre ot znk Ckyzkxt Vgioloi.

G iutlkxktik corr hk nkrj gz Hxayykry Jkikshkx 11, 1900, atjkx znk
Iutbktzout lux znk vxuzkizout ul otjayzxogr vxuvkxze, iutirajkj gz Vgxoy
Sgxin 20, 1883, zu cnoin jkrkmgzky lxus znoy iuatzxe ngbk hkkt gvvuotzkj.
Gte rkyyktotm ul znk jolloiarzoky zngz uax otbktzuxy ktiuatzkx ot uhzgototm
vgzktzy ghxugj lux znkox otbktzouty gtj zngz uax lgxskxy, sgtalgizaxkxy,
gtj skxingtzy sge ngbk ot znk vxuzkizout ul znkox zxgjk-sgxqy oy cuxzne ul
igxklar iutyojkxgzout, gtj euax gzzktzout corr hk igrrkj zu znk xkyarzy ul
znk iutlkxktik gz znk vxuvkx zosk.

Ot znk otzkxkyz ul kdvgtjotm zxgjk hkzckkt znoy iuatzxe gtj Yuazn Gskxoig,
klluxzy ngbk hkkt sgjk jaxotm znk vgyz ekgx zu iutirajk iutbktzouty cozn
znk yuaznkxt xkvahroiy lux znk ktrgxmksktz ul vuyzgr lgiorozoky. Zcu yain
gmxkksktzy, yomtkj cozn Hurobog ut Gvxor 24, ul cnoin zngz kyzghroynotm znk
sutke-uxjkx yeyzks oy atjkxmuotm ikxzgot ingtmky yammkyzkj he znk
Vuyz-Ulloik Jkvgxzsktz, ngbk tuz ekz hkkt xgzolokj he znoy Mubkxtsktz. G
zxkgze ul kdzxgjozout cozn zngz iuatzxe, yomtkj ut znk ygsk jge, oy hkluxk
znk Yktgzk.

G huatjgxe joyvazk hkzckkt Hxgfor gtj Hurobog ubkx znk zkxxozuxe ul Gixk oy
ot g lgox cge ul lxoktjre gjpayzsktz, g vxuzuiur yomtkj ot Jkikshkx, 1899,
ngbotm gmxkkj ut g jklotozk lxutzokx gtj vxubojkj lux ozy jksgxigzout he g
puotz iussoyyout.

Iutjozouty ot Hxgfor ngbk ckomnkj nkgbore ut uax kdvuxz zxgjk zu zngz
iuatzxe ot sgxqkj iutzxgyz zu znk lgbuxghrk iutjozouty avut cnoin Hxgforogt
vxujaizy gxk gjsozzkj otzu uax sgxqkzy. Axmktz xkvxkyktzgzouty ngbk hkkt
sgjk zu zngz Mubkxtsktz ut znk yahpkiz gtj yusk gskrouxgzout ngy hkkt
kllkizkj. Ck xkre avut znk xkiovxuigr payzoik gtj muuj corr ul zngz
Mubkxtsktz zu gyyaxk zu ay g laxznkx osvxubksktz ot uax iusskxiogr
xkrgzouty.

Znk Iutbktzout yomtkj Sge 24, 1897, lux znk lotgr ykzzrksktz ul irgosy rklz
ot ghkegtik avut znk joyyurazout ul znk Iussoyyout ul 1893, cgy gz rktmzn
xgzolokj he znk Inorkgt Iutmxkyy gtj znk yavvrksktzgr Iussoyyout ngy hkkt
uxmgtofkj.

Oz xksgoty lux znk Iutmxkyy zu gvvxuvxogzk lux znk tkikyygxe kdvktyky ul
znk Iussoyyout.

Znk otyaxxkizoutgxe subksktz cnoin joyzaxhkj Iurushog ot znk rgzzkx vgxz ul
1899 ngy hkkt vxgizoigrre yavvxkyykj, grznuamn makxxorrgy yzorr uvkxgzk ot
yusk jkvgxzsktzy. Znk kdkiazobk vuckx ul zngz Xkvahroi ingtmkj ngtjy ot
Gamayz rgyz he znk giz ul Boik-Vxkyojktz Sgxxuwaot ot gyyasotm znk xkoty ul
mubkxtsktz jaxotm znk ghyktik ul Vxkyojktz Ygt Irksktzk lxus znk igvozgr.
Znk ingtmk skz cozn tu ykxouay uvvuyozout, gtj, lurrucotm znk vxkikjktzy ot
yain igyky, znk Atozkj Yzgzky sotoyzkx ktzkxkj otzu xkrgzouty cozn znk tkc
jklgizu Mubkxtsktz ut Ykvzkshkx 17.

Oz oy mxgzoleotm zu gttuatik zngz znk xkyojagr wakyzouty hkzckkt Iuyzg Xoig
gtj Toigxgmag mxucotm uaz ul znk Gcgxj ul Vxkyojktz Irkbkrgtj ot 1888 ngbk
hkkt gjpayzkj znxuamn znk inuoik ul gt Gskxoigt ktmotkkx, Mktkxgr K. V.
Grkdgtjkx, gy asvoxk zu xat znk joyvazkj rotk. Noy zgyq ngy hkkt
giiusvroynkj zu znk ygzoylgizout ul huzn iutzkyzgtzy.

G xkburazout ot znk Jusotoigt Xkvahroi zucgxj znk iruyk ul rgyz ekgx
xkyarzkj ot znk otyzgrrgzout ul Vxkyojktz Posktkf, cnuyk Mubkxtsktz cgy
luxsgrre xkiumtofkj ot Pgtagxe. Yotik znkt lotgr vgesktz ngy hkkt sgjk ul
znk Gskxoigt irgos ot xkmgxj zu znk Ufgsg hxojmk.

Znk ekgx ul znk kdvuyozout ngy hkkt lxaozlar ot uiigyouty lux joyvrgeotm
znk muuj corr zngz kdoyzy hkzckkt znoy iuatzxe gtj Lxgtik. Znoy mxkgz
iusvkzozout hxuamnz zumkznkx lxus kbkxe tgzout znk hkyz ot tgzaxgr
vxujaizouty, otjayzxe, yioktik, gtj znk gxzy, yahsozzkj ot mktkxuay xobgrxe
zu g pajmsktz sgjk grr znk suxk ykgxinotm hkigayk ul zngz xobgrxe. Znk
kdzxguxjotgxe otixkgyk ul kdvuxzgzouty lxus znoy iuatzxe jaxotm znk vgyz
znxkk ekgxy gtj znk gizoboze cozn cnoin uax otbktzouty gtj cgxky ngj
otbgjkj tkc sgxqkzy igaykj sain otzkxkyz zu iktzkx avut znk Gskxoigt
kdnohoz, gtj kbkxe ktiuaxgmksktz cgy ullkxkj ot znk cge ul yvgik gtj
lgiorozoky zu vkxsoz ul ozy hkotm iusvxknktyobk gy g cnurk gtj iusvrkzk ot
kbkxe vgxz.

Oz cgy, nuckbkx, tuz gt kgye zgyq zu gyykshrk kdnohozy zngz iuarj lozre
orrayzxgzk uax jobkxyolokj xkyuaxiky gtj sgtalgizaxky. Yotmargxre ktuamn,
uax tgzoutgr vxuyvkxoze rkyyktkj znk otiktzobk zu kdnohoz. Znk jkgrkx ot
xgc sgzkxogry qtkc zngz znk aykx sayz iusk zu nos; znk mxkgz lgizuxoky ckxk
iutzktzkj cozn znk vnktusktgr jksgtj lux znkox uazvaz, tuz grutk gz nusk,
haz gryu ghxugj, cnkxk skxoz ngj grxkgje cut g vxulozghrk zxgjk.

Gvvkgry ngj zu hk sgjk zu znk vgzxouzoys ul kdnohozuxy zu otjaik znks zu
otiax uazrgey vxusoyotm tu osskjogzk xkzaxt. Znoy cgy kyvkiogrre znk igyk
cnkxk oz hkigsk tkkjlar zu iusvrkzk gt otjayzxogr ykwaktik ux orrayzxgzk g
irgyy ul vxuikyyky. Utk sgtalgizaxkx glzkx gtuznkx ngj zu hk boyozkj gtj
osvuxzatkj, gtj gz zosky, glzkx g vxusoyk zu kdnohoz ot g vgxzoiargx
ykizout ngj hkkt uhzgotkj, oz cuarj hk coznjxgct, ucotm zu vxkyyaxk ul
zxgjk uxjkxy, gtj g tkc wakyz cuarj ngbk zu hk sgjk.

Znk otyzgrrgzout ul kdnohozy, zuu, ktiuatzkxkj sgte uhyzgirky gtj otburbkj
atkdvkizkj iuyz. Znk kdvuyozout cgy lgx lxus xkgje gz znk jgzk lodkj lux
ozy uvktotm. Znk Lxktin zxgtyvuxzgzout rotky ckxk iutmkyzkj cozn ullkxkj
lxkomnz. Hkrgzkj muujy ngj zu hk ngyzore otyzgrrkj ot atlotoynkj wagxzkxy
cozn cngzkbkx rghux iuarj hk uhzgotkj ot znk vxkbgorotm iutlayout. Tux cgy
znk zgyq ul znk Iussoyyout romnzktkj he znk lgiz zngz, ucotm zu znk yinksk
ul irgyyoloigzout gjuvzkj, oz cgy osvuyyohrk zu ngbk znk ktzoxk kdnohoz ul
gte utk iuatzxe ot znk ygsk haorjotm ux suxk zngt utk mxuav ul kdnohozy ot
znk ygsk vgxz ul gte haorjotm. Uax otyzgrrgzouty ckxk yigzzkxkj ut huzn
yojky ul znk Ykotk gtj ot cojkre xksuzk yahaxhy ul Vgxoy, yu zngz
gjjozoutgr gyyoyzgtzy ckxk tkkjkj lux znk cuxq ul yavkxboyout gtj
gxxgtmksktz.

Jkyvozk grr znkyk jxgchgiqy znk iutzxohazout ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky cgy tuz
utre znk rgxmkyz luxkomt joyvrge, haz cgy gsutm znk kgxrokyz ot vrgik gtj
znk suyz uxjkxre ot gxxgtmksktz. Uax kdnohozy ckxk ynuct ot utk natjxkj gtj
utk uaz ul utk natjxkj gtj zcktze-utk irgyyky, gtj suxk iusvrkzkre iubkxkj
znk ktzoxk irgyyoloigzout zngt znuyk ul gte uznkx tgzout. Ot zuzgr tashkx
znke xgtqkj tkdz glzkx znuyk ul Lxgtik, gtj znk gzzxgizobk luxs ot cnoin
znke ckxk vxkyktzkj ykiaxkj mktkxgr gzzktzout.

G ixozkxout ul znk kdzktz gtj yaiikyy ul uax vgxzoiovgzout gtj ul znk
znuxuamntkyy cozn cnoin uax kdnohozy ckxk uxmgtofkj oy ykkt ot znk gcgxjy
mxgtzkj zu Gskxoigt kdnohozuxy he znk otzkxtgzoutgr paxe, tgskre, mxgtj
vxofky, 240; murj skjgry, 597; yorbkx skjgry, 776; hxutfk skjgry, 541, gtj
nutuxghrk sktzouty, 322--2,476 ot grr, hkotm znk mxkgzkyz zuzgr tashkx
mobkt zu znk kdnohoz ul gte kdnohozotm tgzout, gy ckrr gy znk rgxmkyz
tashkx ot kgin mxgjk. Znoy yomtoloigtz xkiumtozout ul skxoz ot iusvkzozout
cozn znk inuykt kdnohozy ul grr uznkx tgzouty gtj gz znk ngtjy ul paxoky
grsuyz cnurre sgjk av ul xkvxkyktzgzobky ul Lxgtik gtj uznkx iusvkzotm
iuatzxoky oy tuz utre suyz mxgzoleotm, haz oy kyvkiogrre bgraghrk, yotik oz
ykzy ay zu znk lxutz ot otzkxtgzoutgr wakyzouty ul yavvre gtj jksgtj, cnork
znk rgxmk vxuvuxzout ul gcgxjy ot znk irgyyky ul gxz gtj gxzoyzoi
sgtalgizaxky glluxjkj atkdvkizkj vxuul ul znk yzosargzout ul tgzoutgr
iarzaxk he znk vxuyvkxoze zngz lrucy lxus tgzaxgr vxujaizobktkyy puotkj zu
otjayzxogr kdikrrktik.

Gvgxz lxus znk kdvuyozout ykbkxgr uiigyouty lux ynucotm otzkxtgzoutgr muuj
corr uiiaxxkj. Znk otgamaxgzout ot Vgxoy ul znk Rglgekzzk Sutasktz,
vxkyktzkj he znk yinuur inorjxkt ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, gtj znk jkyomtotm ul
g iussksuxgzobk iuot he uax Sotz gtj znk vxkyktzgzout ul znk loxyz vokik
yzxaiq zu znk Vxkyojktz ul znk Xkvahroi, ckxk sgxqkj he gvvxuvxogzk
ikxksutoky, gtj znk Luaxzn ul Pare cgy kyvkiogrre uhykxbkj ot znk Lxktin
igvozgr.

Muuj corr vxkbgory ot uax xkrgzouty cozn znk Mkxsgt Ksvoxk. Gt gsoighrk
gjpayzsktz ul znk rutm-vktjotm wakyzout ul znk gjsoyyout ul uax
rolk-otyaxgtik iusvgtoky zu ju hayotkyy ot Vxayyog ngy hkkt xkginkj. Utk ul
znk vxotiovgr iusvgtoky ngy grxkgje hkkt xkgjsozzkj gtj znk cge oy uvktkj
lux znk uznkxy zu yngxk znk vxoborkmk.

Znk ykzzrksktz ul znk Ygsugt vxuhrks, zu cnoin O gjbkxzkj ot se rgyz
skyygmk, ngy giiusvroynkj muuj xkyarzy. Vkgik gtj iutzktzsktz vxkbgor ot
znk oyrgtjy, kyvkiogrre ot Zazaorg, cnkxk g iutbktoktz gjsotoyzxgzout zngz
ngy cut znk iutlojktik gtj kyzkks ul znk qotjre joyvuykj tgzobky ngy hkkt
uxmgtofkj atjkx znk joxkizout ul znk iussgtjkx ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky tgbgr
yzgzout gz Vgmu-Vgmu.

Gt Osvkxogr skgz otyvkizout rgc ngy hkkt ktgizkj lux Mkxsgte. Cnork oz sge
yosvrole znk otyvkizouty, oz vxunohozy ikxzgot vxujaizy nkxkzuluxk
gjsozzkj. Znkxk oy yzorr mxkgz atikxzgotze gy zu cnkznkx uax ckrr-tomn
kdzotmaoynkj Mkxsgt zxgjk ot skgz vxujaizy igt xkbobk zotjkx ozy tkc
haxjkty. Sain corr jkvktj avut xkmargzouty tuz ekz vxusarmgzkj, cnoin ck
iutlojktzre nuvk corr hk lxkk lxus znk joyixosotgzouty cnoin gzzktjkj znk
ktluxiksktz ul znk urj yzgzazky.

Znk xksgototm rotq ot znk tkc rotky ul joxkiz zkrkmxgvnoi iussatoigzout
hkzckkt znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj znk Mkxsgt Ksvoxk ngy xkiktzre hkkt
iusvrkzkj, glluxjotm g mxgzoleotm uiigyout lux kdingtmk ul lxoktjre
iutmxgzargzouty cozn znk Mkxsgt Ksvkxux.

Uax lxoktjre xkrgzouty cozn Mxkgz Hxozgot iutzotak. Znk cgx ot Yuaznkxt
Glxoig otzxujaikj osvuxzgtz wakyzouty. G iutjozout atayagr ot otzkxtgzoutgr
cgxy cgy vxkyktzkj ot zngz cnork utk hkrromkxktz ngj iutzxur ul znk ykgy,
znk uznkx ngj tu vuxzy, ynovvotm, ux joxkiz zxgjk, haz cgy utre giikyyohrk
znxuamn znk zkxxozuxe ul g tkazxgr. Bkdgzouay wakyzouty gxuyk znxuamn Mxkgz
Hxozgot'y gizout ot xkyvkiz zu tkazxgr igxmuky, tuz iutzxghgtj ot znkox uct
tgzaxk, ynovvkj zu Vuxzamakyk Yuazn Glxoig, ut znk yiuxk ul vxuhghrk ux
yayvkizkj arzosgzk jkyzotgzout zu znk Hukx Yzgzky.

Yain iutyomtsktzy ot Hxozoyn ynovy, he cnoin grutk joxkiz zxgjk oy qkvz av
hkzckkt uax vuxzy gtj Yuaznkxt Glxoig, ckxk ykofkj ot gvvroigzout ul g
satoiovgr rgc vxunohozotm Hxozoyn bkyykry lxus zxgjotm cozn znk ktkse
coznuaz xkmgxj zu gte iutzxghgtj ingxgizkx ul znk muujy, cnork igxmuky
ynovvkj zu Jkrgmug Hge ot tkazxgr huzzusy ckxk gxxkyzkj ut znk mxuatj ul
grrkmkj jkyzotgzout zu ktkse'y iuatzxe. Gvvxuvxogzk xkvxkyktzgzouty ut uax
vgxz xkyarzkj ot znk Hxozoyn Mubkxtsktz gmxkkotm zu vaxingyk uazxomnz grr
yain muujy ynuct zu hk znk gizagr vxuvkxze ul Gskxoigt iozofkty, znay
iruyotm znk otiojktz zu znk ygzoylgizout ul znk osskjogzkre otzkxkyzkj
vgxzoky, grznuamn, atluxzatgzkre, coznuaz g hxugj ykzzrksktz ul znk
wakyzout ul g tkazxgr'y xomnz zu yktj muujy tuz iutzxghgtj vkx yk zu g
tkazxgr vuxz gjpgiktz zu g hkrromkxktz gxkg.

Znk cuxq ul sgxqotm ikxzgot vxuboyoutgr huatjgxe vuotzy, lux iutbktoktik ul
gjsotoyzxgzout, gxuatj znk nkgj ul Rett Igtgr, ot giiuxjgtik cozn znk
zksvuxgxe gxxgtmksktz ul Uizuhkx, 1899, Cgy iusvrkzkj he g puotz yaxbke ot
Pare rgyz. Znk sujay bobktjo ngy yu lgx cuxqkj coznuaz lxoizout, gtj znk
Jusotout Mubkxtsktz ngy vxubojkj xarky gtj xkmargzouty lux ykiaxotm zu uax
iozofkty znk hktkloz ul znk xkiovxuigr yzovargzout zngz znk iozofkty ux
yahpkizy ul koznkx vuckx luatj he zngz gxxgtmksktz coznot znk zksvuxgxe
paxoyjoizout ul znk uznkx yngrr yallkx tu josotazout ul znk xomnzy gtj
vxoborkmky znke ngbk noznkxzu ktpuekj. Haz nuckbkx tkikyygxe yain gt
kdvkjoktz sge ngbk hkkt zu zojk ubkx znk mxgbk kskxmktioky ul znk
yozagzout, oz oy gz hkyz haz gt atygzoylgizuxe sgqkynolz, cnoin ynuarj tuz
hk yallkxkj zu jkrge znk yvkkje gtj iusvrkzk kyzghroynsktz ul znk lxutzokx
rotk zu cnoin ck gxk ktzozrkj atjkx znk Xayyu-Gskxoigt zxkgze lux znk
ikyyout ul Grgyqg.

Ot znoy xkrgzout O sge xklkx gmgot zu znk tkkj ul jklotozkre sgxqotm znk
Grgyqgt huatjgxe cnkxk oz lurrucy znk utk natjxkj gtj luxze-loxyz skxojogt.
G iutbktzout zu zngz ktj ngy hkkt hkluxk znk Yktgzk lux yusk zcu ekgxy, haz
gy tu gizout ngy hkkt zgqkt O iutzksvrgzk tkmuzogzotm g tkc iutbktzout lux
g puotz jkzkxsotgzout ul znk skxojogt he zkrkmxgvnoi uhykxbgzouty. Znkyk,
oz oy hkrokbkj, corr mobk suxk giiaxgzk gtj atwakyzoutghrk xkyarzy zngt znk
yojkxkgr skznujy nkxkzuluxk otjkvktjktzre lurruckj, cnoin, gy oy qtuct,
vxubkj joyixkvgtz gz ykbkxgr vuotzy ut znk rotk, grznuamn tuz bgxeotm gz
gte vrgik suxk zngt 700 lkkz.

Znk vktjotm irgos ul X. N. Sge gmgotyz znk Magzksgrgt Mubkxtsktz ngy hkkt
ykzzrkj he gxhozxgzout, Sx. Mkuxmk L. H. Pkttkx, Hxozoyn sotoyzkx gz
Magzksgrg, cnu cgy inuykt gy yurk gxhozxgzux, ngbotm gcgxjkj $143,750.73 ot
murj zu znk irgosgtz.

Bgxouay Gskxoigt irgosy gmgotyz Ngozo ngbk hkkt ux gxk hkotm gjbgtikj zu
znk xkyuxz ul gxhozxgzout.

Gy znk xkyarz ul tkmuzogzouty cozn znk Mubkxtsktz ul Nutjaxgy ot xkmgxj zu
znk otjkstoze jksgtjkj lux znk saxjkx ul Lxgtq N. Vkgxy ot Nutjaxgy, zngz
Mubkxtsktz ngy vgoj $10,000 ot ykzzrksktz ul znk irgos ul znk nkoxy.

Znk gyygyyotgzout ul Qotm Nashkxz igrrkj luxzn yotikxk kdvxkyyouty ul
yuxxuc lxus znoy Mubkxtsktz gtj vkuvrk, gtj uiigyout cgy lozre zgqkt zu
zkyzole zu znk Ozgrogt tgzout znk nomn xkmgxj nkxk lkrz lux znk sksuxe ul
znk rgsktzkj xarkx.

Ot se rgyz skyygmk O xklkxxkj gz iutyojkxghrk rktmzn zu znk retinotm ul
lobk Ozgrogty gz Zgrrargn. Tuzcoznyzgtjotm znk klluxzy ul znk Lkjkxgr
Mubkxtsktz, znk vxujaizout ul kbojktik zktjotm zu otiarvgzk znk gaznuxy ul
znoy mxokbuay ullktyk gmgotyz uax ioborofgzout, gtj znk xkvkgzkj otwakyzy
ykz ut luuz he znk gaznuxozoky ul znk Yzgzk ul Ruaoyogtg, tu vatoynsktzy
ngbk lurruckj. Yaiikyyobk mxgtj paxoky ngbk lgorkj zu otjoiz. Znk
xkvxkyktzgzouty ul znk Ozgrogt Mubkxtsktz ot znk lgik ul znoy soyigxxogmk
ngbk hkkt suyz zksvkxgzk gtj payz.

Ykzzotm znk vxotiovrk gz oyyak nomn ghubk grr iutyojkxgzout ul skxkre
vkiatogxe otjkstoloigzout, yain gy znoy Mubkxtsktz sgjk ot znk znxkk
vxkbouay igyky, Ozgre ngy yurkstre otbuqkj znk vrkjmky ul kdoyzotm zxkgze
gtj gyqkj zngz znk payzoik zu cnoin ynk oy ktzozrkj yngrr hk skzkj ot
xkmgxj zu nkx atluxzatgzk iuatzxeskt ot uax zkxxozuxe cozn znk ygsk larr
skgyaxk ynk nkxykrl cuarj mobk zu gte Gskxoigt ckxk noy xkiovxuigr zxkgze
xomnzy iutzkstkj.

O xktkc znk axmktz xkiussktjgzouty O sgjk rgyz ekgx zngz znk Iutmxkyy
gvvxuvxogzkre iutlkx avut znk Lkjkxgr iuaxzy paxoyjoizout ot znoy irgyy ul
otzkxtgzoutgr igyky cnkxk znk arzosgzk xkyvutyohoroze ul znk Lkjkxgr
Mubkxtsktz sge hk otburbkj, gtj O otbozk gizout avut znk horry zu
giiusvroyn znoy cnoin ckxk otzxujaikj ot znk Ykt. gzk gtj Nuayk. Oz oy
otiashktz avut ay zu xkskje znk yzgzazuxe usoyyout cnoin ngy rkj, gtj sge
gmgot rkgj, zu yain atzucgxj xkyarzy. O ngbk vuotzkj uaz znk tkikyyoze gtj
znk vxkikjktz lux rkmoyrgzout ul znoy ingxgizkx. Ozy ktgizsktz oy g yosvrk
skgyaxk ul vxkboyuxe payzoik zucgxj znk tgzouty cozn cnoin ck gy g
yubkxkomt kwagr sgqk zxkgzoky xkwaoxotm xkiovxuigr uhykxbgtik.

Cnork znk Ozgrogt Mubkxtsktz tgzaxgrre xkmgxjy yain gizout gy znk vxosgxe
gtj, otjkkj, znk suyz kyyktzogr krksktz ot znk joyvuygr ul znk Zgrrargn
otiojktz, O gjboyk zngz, ot giiuxjgtik cozn vxkikjktz, gtj ot bokc ul znk
osvxuhghoroze ul zngz vgxzoiargx igyk hkotm xkginkj he znk horr tuc
vktjotm, Iutmxkyy sgqk mxgiouay vxuboyout lux otjkstoze zu znk Ozgrogt
yallkxkxy ot znk ygsk luxs gtj vxuvuxzout gy nkxkzuluxk.

Ot se otgamaxgr gjjxkyy O xklkxxkj zu znk mktkxgr yahpkiz ul retinotm ot
znkyk cuxjy: Retinotm sayz tuz hk zurkxgzkj ot g mxkgz gtj ioborofkj
iuatzxe roqk znk Atozkj Yzgzky; iuaxzy, tuz suhy, sayz kdkiazk znk
vktgrzoky ul znk rgc. Znk vxkykxbgzout ul vahroi uxjkx, znk xomnz ul
joyiayyout, znk otzkmxoze ul iuaxzy, gtj znk uxjkxre gjsotoyzxgzout ul
payzoik sayz iutzotak luxkbkx znk xuiq ul yglkze avut cnoin uax Mubkxtsktz
ykiaxkre xkyzy. Znoy O suyz axmktzre xkozkxgzk gtj gmgot otbozk znk
gzzktzout ul se iuatzxeskt zu znoy xkvxugin avut uax ioborofgzout.

Znk iruyotm ekgx ngy coztkyykj g jkiojkj yzxktmznktotm ul Pgvgt'y xkrgzouty
zu uznkx yzgzky. Znk jkbkruvsktz ul nkx otjkvktjktz pajoiogr gtj
gjsotoyzxgzobk latizouty atjkx znk zxkgzoky cnoin zuuq kllkiz Pare 17,
1899, ngy vxuikkjkj coznuaz otzkxtgzoutgr lxoizout, ynucotm znk iusvkzktik
ul znk Pgvgtkyk zu nurj g luxksuyz vrgik gsutm sujkxt vkuvrky.

Ot znk zxkgzsktz ul znk jolloiarz Inotkyk vxuhrksy Pgvgt ngy gizkj ot
ngxsutouay iutikxz cozn znk uznkx vuckxy, gtj nkx mktkxuay iuuvkxgzout
sgzkxogrre gojkj ot znk puotz xkrokl ul znk hkrkgmakxkj rkmgzouty ot Vkqotm
gtj ot hxotmotm ghuaz gt atjkxyzgtjotm vxkrosotgxe zu g ykzzrksktz ul znk
oyyaky hkzckkt znk vuckxy gtj Inotg. Pgvgt'y jkirgxgzouty ot lgbux ul znk
otzkmxoze ul znk Inotkyk Ksvoxk gtj znk iutykxbgzout ul uvkt cuxrj zxgjk
znkxkcozn ngbk hkkt lxgtq gtj vuyozobk. Gy g lgizux lux vxusuzotm znk
mktkxgr otzkxkyzy ul vkgik, uxjkx, gtj lgox iusskxik ot znk Lgx Kgyz znk
otlraktik ul Pgvgt igt ngxjre hk ubkxkyzosgzkj.

Znk bgraghrk goj gtj qotjre iuaxzkyoky kdzktjkj he znk Pgvgtkyk Mubkxtsktz
gtj tgbgr ulloikxy zu znk hgzzrk ynov Uxkmut gxk mxgzklarre gvvxkiogzkj.

Iusvrgotz cgy sgjk rgyz yasskx ul znk joyixosotgzuxe ktluxiksktz ul g
hahutoi wagxgtzotk gmgotyz Pgvgtkyk ut znk Vgioloi iugyz gtj ul
otzkxlkxktik cozn znkox zxgbkr ot Igroluxtog gtj Iuruxgju atjkx znk nkgrzn
rgcy ul znuyk Yzgzky. Znk rgzzkx xkyzxoizouty ngbk hkkt gjpajmkj he g
Lkjkxgr iuaxz zu hk atiutyzozazoutgr. Tu xkiaxxktik ul koznkx igayk ul
iusvrgotz oy gvvxknktjkj.

Tu tuzkcuxzne otiojktz ngy uiiaxxkj ot uax xkrgzouty cozn uax osvuxzgtz
yuaznkxt tkomnhux. Iusskxiogr otzkxiuaxyk cozn Skdoiu iutzotaky zu znxobk,
gtj znk zcu Mubkxtsktzy tkmrkiz tu uvvuxzatoze zu luyzkx znkox sazagr
otzkxkyzy ot grr vxgizoighrk cgey.

Vaxyagtz zu znk jkirgxgzout ul znk Yavxksk Iuaxz zngz znk gcgxjy ul znk
rgzk puotz Iussoyyout ot znk Rg Ghxg gtj Ckor irgosy ckxk uhzgotkj znxuamn
lxgaj, znk yas gcgxjkj ot znk loxyz igyk, $403,030.08, ngy hkkt xkzaxtkj zu
Skdoiu, gtj znk gsuatz ul znk Ckor gcgxj corr hk xkzaxtkj ot roqk sgttkx.

G Iutbktzout otjklotozkre kdzktjotm znk zosk lux znk rghuxy ul znk Atozkj
Yzgzky gtj Skdoigt Otzkxtgzoutgr (Cgzkx) Huatjgxe Iussoyyout ngy hkkt
yomtkj.

Oz oy cozn ygzoylgizout zngz O gs ghrk zu gttuatik znk luxsgr tuzoloigzout
gz Znk Ngmak, ut Ykvzkshkx 4, ul znk jkvuyoz ul xgzoloigzouty ul znk
Iutbktzout lux znk Vgioloi Ykzzrksktz ul Otzkxtgzoutgr Joyvazky he yodzkkt
vuckxy, tgskre, znk Atozkj Yzgzky, Gayzxog, Hkrmoas, Jktsgxq, Ktmrgtj,
Lxgtik, Mkxsgte, Ozgre, Vkxyog, Vuxzamgr, Xuasgtog, Xayyog, Yogs, Yvgot,
Yckjkt gtj Tuxcge, gtj znk Tkznkxrgtjy. Pgvgt gryu ngy yotik xgzolokj znk
Iutbktzout.

Znk Gjsotoyzxgzobk Iuatior ul znk Vkxsgtktz Iuaxz ul Gxhozxgzout ngy hkkt
uxmgtofkj gtj ngy gjuvzkj xarky ul uxjkx gtj g iutyzozazout lux znk
Otzkxtgzoutgr Gxhozxgzout Haxkga. Ot giiuxjgtik cozn Gxzoirk DDOOO ul znk
Iutbktzout vxubojotm lux znk gvvuotzsktz he kgin yomtgzuxe vuckx ul vkxyuty
ul qtuct iusvkzktie ot wakyzouty ul otzkxtgzoutgr rgc gy gxhozxgzuxy, O
ngbk gvvuotzkj gy skshkxy ul znoy Iuaxz, Nut. Hktpgsot Ngxxoyut, ul
Otjogtg, kd-Vxkyojktz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky; Nut. Skrborrk C. Larrkx, ul
Orrotuoy, Inokl payzoik ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky; Nut. Punt C. Mxommy, ul Tkc
Pkxyke, Gzzuxtke Mktkxgr ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky; gtj Nut. Mkuxmk Mxge, ul
Jkrgcgxk, g pajmk ul znk ioxiaoz iuaxz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky.

Gy gt otiojktz ul znk hxokl xkburazout ot znk Suywaozu joyzxoiz ul
Toigxgmag kgxre ot 1899 znk otyaxmktzy luxiohre iurrkizkj lxus Gskxoigt
skxingtzy jazoky avut osvuxzy. Ut znk xkyzuxgzout ul uxjkx znk Toigxgmagt
gaznuxozoky jksgtjkj g ykiutj vgesktz ul yain jazoky ut znk mxuatj zngz
znke ckxk jak zu znk zozargx Mubkxtsktz gtj zngz znkox jobkxyout ngj gojkj
znk xkburz.

Znoy vuyozout cgy tuz giikvzkj he ay. Glzkx vxurutmkj joyiayyout g
iusvxusoyk cgy kllkizkj atjkx cnoin znk gsuatz ul znk ykiutj vgesktzy cgy
jkvuyozkj cozn znk Hxozoyn iutyar gz Ygt Pagt jkr Tuxzk ot zxayz atzor znk
zcu Mubkxtsktzy ynuarj jkzkxsotk cnkznkx znk loxyz vgesktzy ngj hkkt sgjk
atjkx iusvaryout zu g jk lgizu gaznuxoze. Gmxkksktz gy zu znoy cgy tuz
xkginkj, gtj znk vuotz cgy cgobkj he znk giz ul znk Toigxgmagt Mubkxtsktz
ot xkwakyzotm znk Hxozoyn iutyar zu xkzaxt znk jkvuyozy zu znk skxingtzy.

Sktgiotm jollkxktiky hkzckkt ykbkxgr ul znk Iktzxgr Gskxoigt Yzgzky ngbk
hkkt giiussujgzkj, uax sotoyzkxy xktjkxotm muuj ulloiky zucgxj gt
atjkxyzgtjotm.

Znk grr-osvuxzgtz sgzzkx ul gt otzkxuikgtoi igtgr ngy gyyaskj g tkc vngyk.
Gjnkxotm zu ozy xklaygr zu xkuvkt znk wakyzout ul znk luxlkozaxk ul znk
iutzxgiz ul znk Sgxozosk Igtgr Iusvgte, cnoin cgy zkxsotgzkj lux grrkmkj
tutkdkiazout ot Uizuhkx, 1899, znk Mubkxtsktz ul Toigxgmag ngy yotik
yavvrksktzkj zngz gizout he jkirgxotm znk yu yzerkj Kexk-Ixgmot uvzout buoj
lux tutvgesktz ul znk yzovargzkj gjbgtik. Vxuzkyzy ot xkrgzout zu znkyk
gizy ngbk hkkt lorkj ot znk Yzgzk Jkvgxzsktz gtj gxk atjkx iutyojkxgzout.
Jkksotm ozykrl xkrokbkj lxus kdoyzotm ktmgmksktzy, znk Toigxgmagt
Mubkxtsktz ynucy g joyvuyozout zu jkgr lxkkre cozn znk igtgr wakyzout
koznkx ot znk cge ul tkmuzogzouty cozn znk Atozkj Yzgzky ux he zgqotm
skgyaxky zu vxusuzk znk cgzkxcge.

Ubkxzaxky lux g iutbktzout zu kllkiz znk haorjotm ul g igtgr atjkx znk
gayvoiky ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky gxk atjkx iutyojkxgzout. Ot znk skgtzosk, znk
bokcy ul znk Iutmxkyy avut znk mktkxgr yahpkiz, ot znk romnz ul znk xkvuxz
ul znk Iussoyyout gvvuotzkj zu kdgsotk znk iusvgxgzobk skxozy ul znk
bgxouay zxgty-Oyznsogt ynov-igtgr vxupkizy, sge hk gcgozkj.

O iussktj zu znk kgxre gzzktzout ul znk Yktgzk znk Iutbktzout cozn Mxkgz
Hxozgot zu lgiorozgzk znk iutyzxaizout ul yain g igtgr gtj zu xksubk gte
uhpkizout cnoin somnz gxoyk uaz ul znk Iutbktzout iussutre igrrkj znk
Irgezut-Harckx Zxkgze.

Znk rutm-yzgtjotm iutzktzout cozn Vuxzamgr, mxucotm uaz ul znk ykofaxk ul
znk Jkrgmug Hge Xgorcge, ngy hkkt gz rgyz jkzkxsotkj he g lgbuxghrk gcgxj
ul znk zxohatgr ul gxhozxgzout gz Hkxtk, zu cnoin oz cgy yahsozzkj. Znk
gsuatz ul znk gcgxj, cnoin cgy jkvuyozkj ot Rutjut gcgozotm gxxgtmksktzy he
znk Mubkxtsktzy ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj Mxkgz Hxozgot lux ozy joyvuygr,
ngy xkiktzre hkkt vgoj ubkx zu znk zcu Mubkxtsktzy.

G rgzkre yomtkj Iutbktzout ul Kdzxgjozout cozn Vkxa gy gsktjkj he znk
Yktgzk ngy hkkt xgzolokj he znk Vkxabogt Iutmxkyy.

Gtuznkx orrayzxgzout ul znk vuroie ul znoy Mubkxtsktz zu xklkx
otzkxtgzoutgr joyvazky zu osvgxzogr gxhozxgzout oy ykkt ot znk gmxkksktz
xkginkj cozn Xayyog zu yahsoz znk irgosy ut hkngrl ul Gskxoigt ykgrotm
bkyykry ykofkj ot Hkxotm Ykg zu jkzkxsotgzout he Sx. Z. S. I. Gyykx, g
joyzotmaoynkj yzgzkysgt gtj paxoyz ul znk Tkznkxrgtjy.

Zngtqy gxk jak zu znk Osvkxogr Xayyogt Mubkxtsktz lux znk qotjre goj
xktjkxkj he ozy gaznuxozoky ot kgyzkxt Yohkxog zu Gskxoigt soyyoutgxoky
lrkkotm lxus Sgtinaxog.

Ygzoylgizuxe vxumxkyy ngy hkkt sgjk zucgxj znk iutirayout ul g mktkxgr
zxkgze ul lxoktjynov gtj otzkxiuaxyk cozn Yvgot, ot xkvrgiksktz ul znk urj
zxkgze, cnoin vgyykj otzu ghkegtik he xkgyut ul znk rgzk cgx. G tkc
iutbktzout ul kdzxgjozout oy gvvxuginotm iusvrkzout, gtj O ynuarj hk sain
vrkgykj ckxk g iusskxiogr gxxgtmksktz zu lurruc. O lkkr zngz ck ynuarj tuz
yallkx zu vgyy gte uvvuxzatoze zu xkglloxs znk iuxjogr zoky zngz kdoyzkj
hkzckkt ay gtj Yvgot lxus znk zosk ul uax kgxrokyz otjkvktjktik, gtj zu
ktngtik znk sazagr hktklozy ul zngz iusskxiogr otzkxiuaxyk cnoin oy tgzaxgr
hkzckkt znk zcu iuatzxoky.

He znk zkxsy ul znk Zxkgze ul Vkgik znk rotk huatjotm znk ikjkj Vnorovvotk
mxuav ot znk yuaznckyz lgorkj zu otirajk ykbkxgr ysgrr oyrgtjy reotm
ckyzcgxj ul znk Yaray, cnoin ngbk grcgey hkkt xkiumtofkj gy atjkx Yvgtoyn
iutzxur. Znk uiiavgzout ul Yohazj gtj Igmgegt Yara he uax tgbgr luxiky
kroiozkj g irgos ut znk vgxz ul Yvgot, znk kyyktzogr kwaoze ul cnoin iuarj
tuz hk mgotygoj. Ot uxjkx zu iaxk znk jklkiz ul znk zxkgze he xksubotm grr
vuyyohrk mxuatj ul lazaxk soyatjkxyzgtjotm xkyvkizotm znk otzkxvxkzgzout ul
ozy znoxj gxzoirk, O joxkizkj znk tkmuzogzout ul g yavvrksktzgxe zxkgze,
cnoin corr hk luxzncozn rgoj hkluxk znk Yktgzk, cnkxkhe Yvgot waozy grr
zozrk gtj irgos ul zozrk zu znk oyrgtjy tgskj gy ckrr gy zu gte gtj grr
oyrgtjy hkrutmotm zu znk Vnorovvotk Gxinovkrgmu reotm uazyojk znk rotky
jkyixohkj ot ygoj znoxj gxzoirk, gtj gmxkky zngz grr yain oyrgtjy yngrr hk
iusvxknktjkj ot znk ikyyout ul znk gxinovkrgmu gy larre gy ol znke ngj hkkt
kdvxkyyre otirajkj coznot znuyk rotky. Ot iutyojkxgzout ul znoy ikyyout znk
Atozkj Yzgzky oy zu vge zu Yvgot znk yas ul $100,000.

G horr oy tuc vktjotm zu kllkiz znk xkiussktjgzout sgjk ot se rgyz gttagr
skyygmk zngz gvvxuvxogzk rkmoyrgzout hk ngj zu igxxe otzu kdkiazout Gxzoirk
BOO ul znk Zxkgze ul Vkgik cozn Yvgot, he cnoin znk Atozkj Yzgzky gyyaskj
znk vgesktz ul ikxzgot irgosy lux otjkstoze ul ozy iozofkty gmgotyz Yvgot.
O gyq zngz gizout hk zgqkt zu larlorr znoy uhromgzout.

Znk Qotm ul Yckjkt gtj Tuxcge ngy giikvzkj znk puotz otbozgzout ul znk
Atozkj Yzgzky, Mkxsgte, gtj Mxkgz Hxozgot zu gxhozxgzk irgosy mxucotm uaz
ul ruyyky yayzgotkj ot znk Ygsugt Oyrgtjy ot znk iuaxyk ul sorozgxe
uvkxgzouty sgjk tkikyygxe he znk joyzaxhgtiky ot 1899.

Uax irgosy avut znk Mubkxtsktz ul znk Yarzgt lux xkvgxgzout lux otpaxoky
yallkxkj he Gskxoigt iozofkty ot Gxsktog gtj krykcnkxk mobk vxusoyk ul
kgxre gtj ygzoylgizuxe ykzzrksktz. Noy Sgpkyze'y muuj joyvuyozout ot znoy
xkmgxj ngy hkkt kbotikj he znk oyyagtik ul gt oxgjk lux xkhaorjotm znk
Gskxoigt iurrkmk gz Ngxvuuz.

Znk lgoraxk ul gizout he znk Yktgzk gz ozy rgyz ykyyout avut znk iusskxiogr
iutbktzouty znkt yahsozzkj lux ozy iutyojkxgzout gtj gvvxubgr, grznuamn
igaykj he znk mxkgz vxkyyaxk ul uznkx rkmoyrgzobk hayotkyy, ngy igaykj sain
joygvvuotzsktz zu znk gmxoiarzaxgr gtj otjayzxogr otzkxkyzy ul znk iuatzxe,
cnoin nuvkj zu vxuloz he znkox vxuboyouty. Znk iutbktzoutgr vkxoujy lux
znkox xgzoloigzout ngbotm kdvoxkj, oz hkigsk tkikyygxe zu yomt gjjozoutgr
gxzoirky kdzktjotm znk zosk lux zngz vaxvuyk. Znoy cgy xkwakyzkj ut uax
vgxz, gtj znk uznkx Mubkxtsktzy otzkxkyzkj ngbk iutiaxxkj cozn znk
kdikvzout ul utk iutbktzout, ot xkyvkiz zu cnoin tu luxsgr xkvre ngy hkkt
xkikobkj.

Yotik se rgyz iussatoigzout zu znk Iutmxkyy ut znoy yahpkiz yvkiogr
iusskxiogr gmxkksktzy atjkx znk znoxj ykizout ul znk zgxoll giz ngbk hkkt
vxuirgoskj cozn Vuxzamgr, cozn Ozgre, gtj cozn Mkxsgte. Iusskxiogr
iutbktzouty zotjkx znk mktkxgr rosozgzouty ul znk luaxzn ykizout ul znk
ygsk giz ngbk hkkt iutirajkj cozn Toigxgmag, cozn Kiagjux, cozn znk
Jusotoigt Xkvahroi, cozn Mxkgz Hxozgot ut hkngrl ul znk oyrgtj ul Zxotojgj,
gtj cozn Jktsgxq ut hkngrl ul znk oyrgtj ul Yz. Ixuod. Znkyk corr hk kgxre
iussatoigzkj zu znk Yktgzk. Tkmuzogzouty cozn uznkx Mubkxtsktzy gxk ot
vxumxkyy lux znk osvxubksktz gtj ykiaxoze ul uax iusskxiogr xkrgzouty.

Znk vuroie ul xkiovxuioze yu sgtolkyzre xkyzy avut znk vxotiovrky ul
otzkxtgzoutgr kwaoze gtj ngy hkkt yu xkvkgzkjre gvvxubkj he znk vkuvrk ul
znk Atozkj Yzgzky zngz znkxk uamnz zu hk tu nkyozgzout ot koznkx hxgtin ul
znk Iutmxkyy ot mobotm zu oz larr kllkiz.

Znoy Mubkxtsktz jkyoxky zu vxkykxbk znk suyz payz gtj gsoighrk iusskxiogr
xkrgzouty cozn grr luxkomt iuatzxoky, atsubkj he znk otjayzxogr xobgrxoky
tkikyygxore jkbkruvkj ot znk kdvgtyout ul otzkxtgzoutgr zxgjk. Oz oy
hkrokbkj zngz znk luxkomt Mubkxtsktzy mktkxgrre ktzkxzgot znk ygsk vaxvuyk,
grznuamn ot yusk otyzgtiky znkxk gxk irgsuxuay jksgtjy avut znks lux
rkmoyrgzout yvkioloigrre nuyzork zu Gskxoigt otzkxkyzy. Ynuarj znkyk
jksgtjy vxkbgor O yngrr iussatoigzk cozn znk Iutmxkyy cozn znk bokc ul
gjboyotm yain rkmoyrgzout gy sge hk tkikyygxe zu skkz znk kskxmktie.

Znk kdvuyozout ul znk xkyuaxiky gtj vxujaizy ul znk Ckyzkxt Nksoyvnkxk zu
hk nkrj gz Hallgru tkdz ekgx vxusoyky osvuxzgtz xkyarzy tuz utre lux znk
Atozkj Yzgzky haz lux znk uznkx vgxzoiovgzotm iuatzxoky. Oz oy mxgzoleotm
zngz znk Rgzot-Gskxoigt Yzgzky ngbk kbotikj znk robkrokyz otzkxkyz, gtj znk
lgiz zngz gt Otzkxtgzoutgr Gskxoigt Iutmxkyy corr hk nkrj ot znk Ioze ul
Skdoiu cnork znk kdvuyozout oy ot vxumxkyy ktiuaxgmky znk nuvk ul g rgxmkx
joyvrge gz Hallgru zngt somnz uznkxcoyk hk vxgizoighrk. Znk cuxq ul
vxkvgxotm gt kdnohoz ul uax tgzoutgr xkyuaxiky oy sgqotm ygzoylgizuxe
vxumxkyy atjkx znk joxkizout ul jollkxktz ulloiogry ul znk Lkjkxgr
Mubkxtsktz, gtj znk bgxouay Yzgzky ul znk Atout ngbk ynuct g joyvuyozout
zucgxj znk suyz rohkxgr vgxzoiovgzout ot znk ktzkxvxoyk.

Znk Haxkga ul znk Gskxoigt Xkvahroiy iutzotaky zu joyingxmk, cozn znk
ngvvokyz xkyarzy, znk osvuxzgtz cuxq ul vxusuzotm iuxjogr xkrgzouty hkzckkt
znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj znk Rgzot-Gskxoigt iuatzxoky, grr ul cnoin gxk tuc
gizobk skshkxy ul znk Otzkxtgzoutgr Atout. Znk Haxkga ngy hkkt otyzxasktzgr
ot hxotmotm ghuaz znk gmxkksktz lux gtuznkx Otzkxtgzoutgr Gskxoigt
Iutmxkyy, cnoin oy zu skkz ot znk Ioze ul Skdoiu ot Uizuhkx, 1901. Znk
Haxkga'y lazaxk lux gtuznkx zkxs ul zkt ekgxy oy gyyaxkj he znk
otzkxtgzoutgr iusvgiz, haz znk iutmxkyy corr juahzrkyy ngbk sain zu ju cozn
yngvotm tkc rotky ul cuxq gtj g mktkxgr vuroie. Ozy ayklartkyy zu znk
otzkxkyzy ul Rgzot-Gskxoigt zxgjk oy cojkre gvvxkiogzkj gtj ynucy g
mxgzoleotm jkbkruvsktz.

Znk vxgizoigr azoroze ul znk iutyargx ykxboik ot uhzgototm g cojk xgtmk ul
otluxsgzout gy zu znk otjayzxoky gtj iusskxik ul uznkx iuatzxoky gtj znk
uvvuxzatozoky znkxkhe glluxjkj lux otzxujaiotm znk ygrk ul uax muujy ngbk
qkvz yzkgjore ot gjbgtik ul znk tuzghrk kdvgtyout ul uax luxkomt zxgjk, gtj
ghatjgtz kbojktik ngy hkkt laxtoynkj, huzn gz nusk gtj ghxugj, ul znk lgiz
zngz znk Iutyargx Xkvuxzy, otirajotm sgte lxus uax jovrusgzoi
xkvxkyktzgzobky, ngbk zu g iutyojkxghrk kdzktz vuotzkj uaz cgey gtj skgty
ul joyvuyotm ul g mxkgz bgxokze ul sgtalgizaxkj muujy cnoin uznkxcoyk somnz
tuz ngbk luatj ygrk ghxugj.

Zkyzosute ul luxkomt uhykxbkxy zu znk iusskxiogr klloioktie ul znk iutyargx
iuxvy ykksy zu hk iutirayobk, gtj uax uct sgtalgizaxkxy gtj kdvuxzkxy
nomnre gvvxkiogzk znk bgrak ul znk ykxboiky xktjkxkj tuz utre ot znk
vxotzkj xkvuxzy haz gryu ot znk otjobojagr klluxzy ul iutyargx ulloikxy zu
vxusuzk Gskxoigt zxgjk. Gt otixkgyotm vgxz ul znk cuxq ul znk Haxkga ul
Luxkomt Iusskxik, cnuyk vxosgxe jaze oz oy zu iusvork gtj vxotz znk
xkvuxzy, oy zu gtyckx otwaoxoky lxus zxgjk uxmgtofgzouty, hayotkyy nuayky,
kzi., gy zu iutjozouty ot bgxouay vgxzy ul znk cuxrj, gtj, tuzcoznyzgtjotm
znk ysgrrtkyy ul znk luxik ksvruekj, znk cuxq ngy hkkt yu yeyzksgzofkj zngz
xkyvutyky gxk sgjk cozn yain vxusvzozajk gtj giiaxgie gy zu kroioz
lrgzzkxotm ktiusoasy. Znk kdvkxosktz ul vxotzotm znk Iutyargx Xkvuxzy jgore
lux osskjogzk ayk he zxgjk hujoky, kdvuxzkxy, gtj znk vxkyy, cnoin cgy
hkmat ot Pgtagxe, 1898, iutzotaky zu mobk mktkxgr ygzoylgizout.

Oz oy mxgzoleotm zu hk ghrk zu yzgzk zngz znk yaxvray xkbktaky lux znk
loyigr ekgx ktjkj Patk 30, 1900, ckxk $79,527,060.18. Lux znk yod vxkikjotm
ekgxy ck ngj utre jkloiozy, znk gmmxkmgzk ul cnoin lxus 1894 zu 1899,
otirayobk, gsuatzkj zu $283,022,991.14. Znk xkikovzy lux znk ekgx lxus grr
yuaxiky, kdirayobk ul vuyzgr xkbktaky, gmmxkmgzkj $567,240,851.89, gtj
kdvktjozaxky lux grr vaxvuyky, kdikvz lux znk gjsotoyzxgzout ul znk vuyzgr
jkvgxzsktz, gmmxkmgzkj $487,713,791.71. Znk xkikovzy lxus iayzusy ckxk
$233,164,871.16, gt otixkgyk ubkx znk vxkikjotm ekgx Ul $27,036,389.41. Znk
xkikovzy lxus otzkxtgr xkbktak ckxk $295,327,926.76, gt otixkgyk Ul
$21,890,765.25 ubkx 1899. Znk xkikovzy lxus soyikrrgtkuay yuaxiky ckxk
$38,748,053.97, gy gmgotyz $36,394,976.92 lux znk vxkbouay ekgx.

Oz oy mxgzoleotm gryu zu tuzk zngz jaxotm znk ekgx g iutyojkxghrk xkjaizout
oy ynuct ot znk kdvktjozaxky ul znk Mubkxtsktz. Znk Cgx Jkvgxzsktz
kdvktjozaxky lux znk loyigr ekgx 1900 ckxk $134,774,767.78, g xkjaizout ul
$95,066,486.69 ubkx znuyk ul 1899. Ot znk Tgbe Jkvgxzsktz znk kdvktjozaxky
ckxk $55,953,077.72 lux znk ekgx 1900, gy gmgotyz $63,942,104.25 lux znk
vxkikjotm ekgx, g jkixkgyk ul $7,989,026.53. Ot znk kdvktjozaxky ut giiuatz
ul Otjogty znkxk cgy g jkixkgyk ot 1900 ubkx 1899 Ul $2,630,604.38; gtj ot
znk iobor gtj soyikrrgtkuay kdvktyky lux 1900 znkxk cgy g xkjaizout Ul
$13,418,065.74.

Hkigayk ul znk kdikyy ul xkbktaky ubkx kdvktjozaxky znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk
Zxkgyaxe cgy ktghrkj zu gvvre hutjy gtj uznkx ykiaxozoky zu znk yotqotm
latj zu znk gsuatz Ul $56,544,556.06. Znk jkzgory ul znk yotqotm latj gxk
ykz luxzn ot znk xkvuxz ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe, zu cnoin O otbozk
gzzktzout. Znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe kyzosgzky zngz znk xkikovzy lux
znk iaxxktz loyigr ekgx corr gmmxkmgzk $580,000,000 gtj znk kdvktjozaxky
$500,000,000, rkgbotm gt kdikyy ul xkbktaky ubkx kdvktjozaxky ul
$80,000,000. Znk vxkyktz iutjozout ul znk Zxkgyaxe oy utk ul atjuahzkj
yzxktmzn. Znk gbgorghrk igyn hgrgtik Tubkshkx 30 cgy $139,303,794.50. Atjkx
znk luxs ul yzgzksktz vxoux zu znk lotgtiogr rgc ul Sgxin 14 rgyz znkxk
cuarj ngbk hkkt otirajkj ot znk yzgzksktz ul gbgorghrk igyn murj iuot gtj
harrout nkrj lux znk xkjksvzout ul Atozkj Yzgzky tuzky.

Ol znoy luxs ckxk vaxyakj, znk igyn hgrgtik otirajotm znk vxkyktz murj
xkykxbk ul $150,000,000, cuarj hk $289,303,794.50. Yain hgrgtik Tubkshkx
30, 1899, cgy $296,495,301.55. Ot znk mktkxgr latj, cnoin oy cnurre
ykvgxgzk lxus znk xkykxbk gtj zxayz latjy, znkxk cgy ut Tubkshkx 30,
$70,090,073.15 ot murj iuot gtj harrout, zu cnoin ynuarj hk gjjkj
$22,957,300 ot murj ikxzoloigzky yahpkiz zu oyyak, gmgotyz cnoin znkxk oy
nkrj ot znk Joboyout ul Xkjksvzout murj iuot gtj harrout, sgqotm g zuzgr
nurjotm ul lxkk murj gsuatzotm zu $93,047,373.15.

Oz corr hk znk jaze gy O gs yaxk oz corr hk znk joyvuyozout ul znk Iutmxkyy
zu vxubojk cngzkbkx laxznkx rkmoyrgzout oy tkkjkj zu otyaxk znk iutzotakj
vgxoze atjkx grr iutjozouty hkzckkt uax zcu luxsy ul skzgrroi sutke, yorbkx
gtj murj.

Uax yaxvray xkbktaky ngbk vkxsozzkj znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe yotik znk
iruyk ul znk loyigr ekgx zu igrr ot znk latjkj rugt ul 1891 iutzotakj gz 2
vkx iktz, ot znk yas ul $25,364,500. Zu gtj otirajotm Tubkshkx 30,
$23,458,100 Ul znkyk hutjy ngbk hkkt vgoj. Znoy yas, zumkznkx cozn znk
gsuatz cnoin sge giixak lxus laxznkx xkjksvzouty atjkx znk igrr, corr hk
gvvrokj zu znk yotqotm latj.

Znk rgc ul Sgxin 14, 1900, vxubojkj lux xklatjotm otzu 2 vkx iktz
znoxze-ekgx hutjy, vgeghrk, vxotiovgr gtj otzkxkyz, ot murj iuot ul znk
vxkyktz yzgtjgxj bgrak, zngz vuxzout ul znk vahroi jkhz xkvxkyktzkj he znk
3 vkx iktz hutjy ul 1908, znk 4 vkxiktzy Ul 1907, gtj znk 5 vkxiktzy ul
1904, Ul cnoin znkxk cgy uazyzgtjotm gz znk jgzk ul ygoj rgc $839,149,930,
Znk nurjkxy ul znk urj hutjy vxkyktzkj znks lux kdingtmk hkzckkt Sgxin 14
gtj Tubkshkx 30 zu znk gsuatz ul $364,943,750. Znk tkz ygbotm zu znk
Mubkxtsktz ut znkyk zxgtygizouty gmmxkmgzky $9,106,166.

Gtuznkx kllkiz ul znk uvkxgzout, gy yzgzkj he znk Ykixkzgxe, oy zu xkjaik
znk ingxmk avut znk Zxkgyaxe lux znk vgesktz ul otzkxkyz lxus znk jgzky ul
xklatjotm zu Lkhxagxe 1, 1904, he znk yas ul suxk zngt ykbkt sorrout
jurrgxy gttagrre. Lxus Lkhxagxe 1, 1904, zu Pare 1, 11907, znk gttagr
otzkxkyz ingxmk corr hk xkjaikj he znk yas ul suxk zngt lobk sorrouty, gtj
lux znk znoxzkkt sutzny ktjotm Gamayz 1, 1908, he ghuaz utk sorrout. Znk
larr jkzgory ul znk xklatjotm gxk mobkt ot znk gttagr xkvuxz ul znk
Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe.

Znk hktkloiogr kllkiz ul znk lotgtiogr giz ul 1900, yu lgx gy oz xkrgzky zu
g sujoloigzout ul znk tgzoutgr hgtqotm giz, oy grxkgje gvvgxktz. Znk
vxuboyout lux znk otiuxvuxgzout ul tgzoutgr hgtqy cozn g igvozgr ul tuz
rkyy zngt $25,000 ot vrgiky tuz kdikkjotm znxkk znuaygtj otnghozgtzy ngy
xkyarzkj ot znk kdzktyout ul hgtqotm lgiorozoky zu sgte ysgrr iussatozoky
noznkxzu atghrk zu vxubojk znksykrbky cozn hgtqotm otyzozazouty atjkx znk
tgzoutgr yeyzks. Znkxk ckxk uxmgtofkj lxus znk ktgizsktz ul znk rgc av zu
gtj otirajotm Tubkshkx 30, 369 tgzoutgr hgtqy, ul cnoin 266 ckxk cozn
igvozgr rkyy zngt $50,000, gtj 103 cozn igvozgr ul $50,000 ux suxk.

Oz oy cuxzne ul sktzout zngz znk mxkgzkx tashkx ul hgtqy hkotm uxmgtofkj
atjkx znk tkc rgc gxk ot ykizouty cnkxk znk tkkj ul hgtqotm lgiorozoky ngy
hkkt suyz vxutuatikj. Oucg yzgtjy loxyz, cozn 30 hgtqy ul znk ysgrrkx
irgyy, cnork Zkdgy, Uqrgnusg, Otjogt Zkxxozuxe, gtj znk sojjrk gtj ckyzkxt
ykizouty ul znk iuatzxe ngbk gryu gbgorkj znksykrbky rgxmkre ul znk
vxoborkmky atjkx znk tkc rgc.

G rgxmk otixkgyk ot tgzoutgr hgtq-tuzk ioxiargzout ngy xkyarzkj lxus znk
vxuboyout ul znk giz cnoin vkxsozy tgzoutgr hgtqy zu oyyak ioxiargzotm
tuzky zu znk vgx bgrak ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky hutjy jkvuyozkj gy ykiaxoze
otyzkgj ul utre mu vkx iktz znkxkul, gy nkxkzuluxk. Znk otixkgyk ot
ioxiargzotm tuzky lxus Sgxin 14 zu Tubkshkx 30 oy $77,889,570.

Znk vgxze ot vuckx oy iussozzkj zu yain rkmoyrgzout gy corr hkzzkx sgqk znk
iaxxktie xkyvutyobk zu znk bgxeotm tkkjy ul hayotkyy gz grr ykgyuty gtj ot
grr ykizouty.

Uax luxkomt zxgjk ynucy g xksgxqghrk xkiuxj ul iusskxiogr gtj otjayzxogr
vxumxkyy. Znk zuzgr ul osvuxzy gtj kdvuxzy lux znk loxyz zosk ot znk
noyzuxe ul znk iuatzxe kdikkjkj zcu horrouty ul jurrgxy. Znk kdvuxzy gxk
mxkgzkx zngt znke ngbk kbkx hkkt hkluxk, znk zuzgr lux znk loyigr ekgx 1900
hkotm $1,394,483,082, gt otixkgyk ubkx 1899 ul $167,459,780, gt otixkgyk
ubkx 1898 ul $163,000,752, ubkx 1897 Ul $343,489,526, gtj mxkgzkx zngt 1896
he $511,876,144.

Znk mxuczn ul sgtalgizaxky ot znk Atozkj Yzgzky oy kbojktikj he znk lgiz
zngz kdvuxzy ul sgtalgizaxkj vxujaizy rgxmkre kdikkj znuyk ul gte vxkbouay
ekgx, znkox bgrak lux 1900 hkotm $433,851,756, gmgotyz $339,592,146 ot
1899, gt otixkgyk ul 28 vkx iktz.

Gmxoiarzaxgr vxujaizy ckxk gryu kdvuxzkj jaxotm 1900 ot mxkgzkx burask zngt
ot 1899, znk zuzgr lux znk ekgx hkotm $835,858,123, gmgotyz $784,776,142 ot
1899.

Znk osvuxzy lux znk ekgx gsuatzkj zu $849,941,184, gt otixkgyk ubkx 1899 ul
$152,792,695. Znoy otixkgyk oy rgxmkre ot sgzkxogry lux sgtalgizaxk, gtj oy
ot xkyvutyk zu znk xgvoj jkbkruvsktz ul sgtalgizaxotm ot znk Atozkj Yzgzky.
Cnork znkxk cgy osvuxzkj lux ayk ot sgtalgizaxky ot 1900 sgzkxogr zu znk
bgrak ul $79,768,972 ot kdikyy ul 1899, oz oy xkgyyaxotm zu uhykxbk zngz
znkxk oy g zktjktie zucgxj jkixkgyk ot znk osvuxzgzout ul gxzoirky
sgtalgizaxkj xkgje lux iutyasvzout, cnoin ot 1900 luxskj 15.17 vkx iktz ul
znk zuzgr osvuxzy, gmgotyz 15.54 vkx iktz ot 1899 gtj 21.09 vkx iktz ot
1896.

O xkiussktj zngz znk Iutmxkyy gz ozy vxkyktz ykyyout xkjaik znk
otzkxtgr-xkbktak zgdky osvuykj zu skkz znk kdvktyky ul znk cgx cozn Yvgot.
ot znk yas ul znoxze sorrouty ul jurrgxy. Znoy xkjaizout ynuarj hk ykiaxkj
he znk xksoyyout ul znuyk zgdky cnoin kdvkxoktik ngy ynuct zu hk znk suyz
haxjktyusk zu znk otjayzxoky ul znk vkuvrk.

O yvkiogrre axmk zngz znkxk hk otirajkj ot cngzkbkx xkjaizout oy sgjk znk
rkmgie zgd ut hkwakyzy lux vahroi ayky ul g rozkxgxe, kjaigzoutgr, ux
ingxozghrk ingxgizkx.

Gskxoigt bkyykry jaxotm znk vgyz znxkk ekgxy ngbk igxxokj ghuaz 9 vkx iktz
ul uax kdvuxzy gtj osvuxzy. Luxkomt ynovy ynuarj igxxe znk rkgyz, tuz znk
mxkgzkyz, vgxz ul Gskxoigt zxgjk. Znk xksgxqghrk mxuczn ul uax yzkkr
otjayzxoky, znk vxumxkyy ul ynovhaorjotm lux znk juskyzoi zxgjk, gtj uax
yzkgjore sgotzgotkj kdvktjozaxky lux znk Tgbe ngbk ixkgzkj gt uvvuxzatoze
zu vrgik znk Atozkj Yzgzky ot znk loxyz xgtq ul iusskxiogr sgxozosk vuckxy.

Hkyojky xkgrofotm g vxuvkx tgzoutgr gyvoxgzout znoy corr skgt znk
kyzghroynsktz gtj nkgrzne mxuczn grutm grr uax iugyzy ul g joyzotizobk
tgzoutgr otjayzxe, kdvgtjotm znk lokrj lux znk vxulozghrk ksvruesktz ul
rghux gtj igvozgr. Oz corr otixkgyk znk zxgtyvuxzgzout lgiorozoky gtj
xkjaik lxkomnz ingxmky ut znk bgyz burask ul vxujaizy hxuamnz lxus znk
otzkxoux zu znk ykghugxj lux kdvuxz, gtj corr yzxktmznkt gt gxs ul znk
tgzoutgr jklktyk avut cnoin znk luatjkxy ul znk Mubkxtsktz gtj znkox
yaiikyyuxy ngbk xkrokj. Ot gmgot axmotm osskjogzk gizout he znk Iutmxkyy ut
skgyaxky zu vxusuzk Gskxoigt ynovvotm gtj luxkomt zxgjk, O joxkiz gzzktzout
zu znk xkiussktjgzouty ut znk yahpkiz ot vxkbouay skyygmky, gtj
vgxzoiargxre zu znk uvotout kdvxkyykj ot znk skyygmk ul 1899: O gs
ygzoylokj znk pajmsktz ul znk iuatzxe lgbuxy znk vuroie ul goj zu uax
skxingtz sgxotk, cnoin corr hxugjkt uax iusskxik gtj sgxqkzy gtj avhaorj
uax ykg-igxxeotm igvgioze lux znk vxujaizy ul gmxoiarzaxk gtj sgtalgizaxk,
cnoin, cozn znk otixkgyk ul uax Tgbe, skgt suxk cuxq gtj cgmky zu uax
iuatzxeskt, gy ckrr gy g yglkmagxj zu Gskxoigt otzkxkyzy ot kbkxe vgxz ul
znk cuxrj. Znk gzzktzout ul znk Iutmxkyy oy otbozkj zu znk xkiussktjgzout
ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe ot noy gttagr xkvuxz lux rkmoyrgzout ot
hkngrl ul znk Xkbktak-Iazzkx Ykxboik, gtj lgbuxghrk gizout oy axmkj.

Ot se rgyz gttagr skyygmk zu znk Iutmxkyy O igrrkj gzzktzout zu znk
tkikyyoze lux kgxre gizout zu xkskje yain kbory gy somnz hk luatj zu kdoyz
ot iuttkizout cozn iushotgzouty ul igvozgr uxmgtofkj otzu zxayzy, gtj gmgot
otbozk gzzktzout zu se joyiayyout ul znk yahpkiz gz zngz zosk, cnoin
iutirajkj cozn znkyk cuxjy: Oz oy gvvgxktz zngz atoluxsoze ul rkmoyrgzout
avut znoy yahpkiz ot znk ykbkxgr Yzgzky oy sain zu hk jkyoxkj. Oz oy zu hk
nuvkj zngz yain atoluxsoze, luatjkj ot g coyk gtj payz joyixosotgzout
hkzckkt cngz oy otpaxouay gtj cngz oy ayklar gtj tkikyygxe ot hayotkyy
uvkxgzouty, sge hk uhzgotkj, gtj zngz skgty sge hk luatj lux znk Iutmxkyy,
coznot znk rosozgzouty ul ozy iutyzozazoutgr vuckx, yu zu yavvrksktz gt
kllkizobk iujk ul Yzgzk rkmoyrgzout gy zu sgqk g iusvrkzk yeyzks ul rgcy
znxuamnuaz znk Atozkj Yzgzky gjkwagzk zu iusvkr g mktkxgr uhykxbgtik ul znk
ygrazgxe xarky zu cnoin O ngbk xklkxxkj.

Znk cnurk wakyzout oy yu osvuxzgtz gtj lgx-xkginotm zngz O gs yaxk tu vgxz
ul oz corr hk romnzre iutyojkxkj, haz kbkxe vngyk ul oz corr ngbk znk
yzajokj jkrohkxgzout ul znk Iutmxkyy, xkyarzotm ot coyk gtj pajoiouay
gizout. Xkyzxgotz avut yain iushotgzouty gy gxk otpaxouay, gtj cnoin gxk
coznot Lkjkxgr paxoyjoizout, ynuarj hk vxusvzre gvvrokj he znk Iutmxkyy.

Ot se rgyz gttagr skyygmk O jckrz gz yusk rktmzn avut znk iutjozout ul
gllgoxy ot znk Vnorovvotky. Cnork ykkqotm zu osvxkyy avut eua zngz znk
mxgbk xkyvutyohoroze ul znk lazaxk mubkxtsktz ul znuyk oyrgtjy xkyzy cozn
znk Iutmxkyy ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, O ghyzgotkj lxus xkiussktjotm gz zngz
zosk g yvkioloi gtj lotgr luxs ul mubkxtsktz lux znk zkxxozuxe gizagrre
nkrj he znk Atozkj Yzgzky luxiky gtj ot cnoin gy rutm gy otyaxxkizout
iutzotaky znk sorozgxe gxs sayz tkikyygxore hk yavxksk. O yzgzkj se
vaxvuyk, atzor znk Iutmxkyy yngrr ngbk sgjk znk luxsgr kdvxkyyout ul ozy
corr, zu ayk znk gaznuxoze bkyzkj ot sk he znk Iutyzozazout gtj znk
yzgzazky zu avnurj znk yubkxkomtze ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky ot znuyk joyzgtz
oyrgtjy gy ot grr uznkx vrgiky cnkxk uax lrgm xomnzlarre lrugzy, vrgiotm,
zu zngz ktj, gz znk joyvuygr ul znk gxse gtj tgbe grr znk skgty cnoin znk
rohkxgroze ul znk Iutmxkyy gtj znk vkuvrk ngbk vxubojkj. Tu iutzxgxe
kdvxkyyout ul znk corr ul znk Iutmxkyy ngbotm hkkt sgjk, O ngbk yzkgjlgyzre
vaxyakj znk vaxvuyk yu jkirgxkj, ksvrueotm znk iobor gxs gy ckrr zucgxj znk
giiusvroynsktz ul vgioloigzout gtj znk otyzozazout ul ruigr mubkxtsktzy
coznot znk rotky ul gaznuxoze gtj rgc.

Vxumxkyy ot znk nuvkj-lux joxkizout ngy hkkt lgbuxghrk. Uax luxiky ngbk
yaiikyylarre iutzxurrkj znk mxkgzkx vgxz ul znk oyrgtjy, ubkxiusotm znk
uxmgtofkj luxiky ul znk otyaxmktzy gtj igxxeotm uxjkx gtj gjsotoyzxgzobk
xkmargxoze zu grr wagxzkxy. Cngz uvvuyozout xksgoty oy lux znk suyz vgxz
yigzzkxkj, uhkeotm tu iutikxzkj vrgt ul yzxgzkmoi gizout, uvkxgzotm utre he
znk skznujy iussut zu znk zxgjozouty ul makxxorrg cgxlgxk, cnoin, cnork
otkllkizobk zu grzkx znk mktkxgr iutzxur tuc kyzghroynkj, gxk yzorr
yalloioktz zu hkmkz otykiaxoze gsutm znk vuvargzouty zngz ngbk lkrz znk
muuj xkyarzy ul uax iutzxur gtj znay jkrge znk iutlkxsktz avut znks ul znk
larrkx skgyaxky ul ruigr ykrl-mubkxtsktz, ul kjaigzout, gtj ul otjayzxogr
gtj gmxoiarzaxgr jkbkruvsktz cnoin ck yzgtj xkgje zu mobk zu znks.

He znk yvxotm ul znoy ekgx znk kllkizobk uvvuyozout ul znk joyygzoylokj
Zgmgry zu znk gaznuxoze ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky cgy boxzagrre ktjkj, znay
uvktotm znk juux lux znk kdzktyout ul g yzghrk gjsotoyzxgzout ubkx sain ul
znk zkxxozuxe ul znk Gxinovkrgmu. Jkyoxotm zu hxotm znoy ghuaz, O gvvuotzkj
ot Sgxin rgyz g iobor Iussoyyout iusvuykj ul znk Nut. Corrogs N. Zglz, ul
Unou; Vxul. Jkgt I. Cuxikyzkx, ul Soinomgt; znk Nut. Raqk O. Cxomnz, ul
Zkttkyykk; znk Nut. Nktxe I. Ojk, ul Bkxsutz, gtj Vxul. Hkxtgxj Suyky, ul
Igroluxtog. Znk gosy ul znkox soyyout gtj znk yiuvk ul znkox gaznuxoze gxk
irkgxre ykz luxzn ot se otyzxaizouty ul Gvxor 7, 1900, gjjxkyykj zu znk
Ykixkzgxe ul Cgx zu hk zxgtysozzkj zu znks:

Ot znk skyygmk zxgtysozzkj zu znk Iutmxkyy ut znk 5zn ul Jkikshkx, 1899, O
ygoj, yvkgqotm ul znk Vnorovvotk Oyrgtjy: "Gy rutm gy znk otyaxxkizout
iutzotaky znk sorozgxe gxs sayz tkikyygxore hk yavxksk. Haz znkxk oy tu
xkgyut cne yzkvy ynuarj tuz hk zgqkt lxus zosk zu zosk zu otgamaxgzk
mubkxtsktzy kyyktzogrre vuvargx ot znkox luxs gy lgyz gy zkxxozuxe oy nkrj
gtj iutzxurrkj he uax zxuuvy. Zu znoy ktj O gs iutyojkxotm znk gjboyghoroze
ul znk xkzaxt ul znk Iussoyyout, ux yain ul znk skshkxy znkxkul gy igt hk
ykiaxkj, zu goj znk kdoyzotm gaznuxozoky gtj lgiorozgzk znoy cuxq
znxuamnuaz znk oyrgtjy."

Zu mobk kllkiz zu znk otzktzout znay kdvxkyykj, O ngbk gvvuotzkj Nut.
Corrogs N. Zglz, ul Unou; Vxul. Jkgt I. Cuxikyzkx, ul Soinomgt; Tut. Raqk
O. Cxomnz, ul Zkttkyykk; Nut. Nktxe I. Ojk, ul Bkxsutz, gtj Vxul. Hkxtgxj
Suyky, ul Igroluxtog, Iussoyyoutkxy zu znk Vnorovvotk Oyrgtjy zu iutzotak
gtj vkxlkiz znk cuxq ul uxmgtofotm gtj kyzghroynotm iobor mubkxtsktz
grxkgje iussktikj he znk sorozgxe gaznuxozoky, yahpkiz ot grr xkyvkizy zu
gte rgcy cnoin Iutmxkyy sge nkxkglzkx ktgiz.

Znk Iussoyyoutkxy tgskj corr skkz gtj giz gy g hugxj, gtj znk Nut. Corrogs
N. Zglz z oy jkyomtgzkj gy vxkyojktz ul znk hugxj. Oz oy vxuhghrk zngz znk
zxgtylkx ul gaznuxoze lxus sorozgxe iussgtjkxy zu iobor ulloikxy corr hk
mxgjagr gtj corr uiiave g iutyojkxghrk vkxouj. Ozy yaiikyylar
giiusvroynsktz gtj znk sgotzktgtik ul vkgik gtj uxjkx ot znk skgtzosk corr
xkwaoxk znk suyz vkxlkiz iu-uvkxgzout hkzckkt znk iobor gtj sorozgxe
gaznuxozoky ot znk oyrgtjy, gtj huzn ynuarj hk joxkizkj jaxotm znk
zxgtyozout vkxouj he znk ygsk Kdkiazobk Jkvgxzsktz. Znk Iussoyyout corr
znkxkluxk xkvuxz zu znk Ykixkzgxe ul Cgx, gtj grr znkox gizout corr hk
yahpkiz zu euax gvvxubgr gtj iutzxur.

Eua corr otyzxaiz znk Iussoyyout zu vxuikkj zu znk ioze ul Sgtorg, cnkxk
znke corr sgqk znkox vxotiovgr ulloik, gtj zu iussatoigzk cozn znk Sorozgxe
Mubkxtux ul znk Vnorovvotk Oyrgtjy, cnus eua corr gz znk ygsk zosk joxkiz
zu xktjkx zu znks kbkxe gyyoyzgtik coznot noy vuckx ot znk vkxluxsgtik ul
znkox jazoky. Coznuaz ngsvkxotm znks he zuu yvkioloi otyzxaizouty, znke
ynuarj ot mktkxgr hk ktpuotkj, glzkx sgqotm znksykrbky lgsorogx cozn znk
iutjozouty gtj tkkjy ul znk iuatzxe, zu jkbuzk znkox gzzktzout ot znk loxyz
otyzgtik zu znk kyzghroynsktz ul satoiovgr mubkxtsktzy, ot cnoin znk
tgzobky ul znk oyrgtjy, huzn ot znk iozoky gtj ot znk xaxgr iussatozoky,
yngrr hk glluxjkj znk uvvuxzatoze zu sgtgmk znkox uct ruigr gllgoxy zu znk
larrkyz kdzktz ul cnoin znke gxk igvghrk gtj yahpkiz zu znk rkgyz jkmxkk ul
yavkxboyout gtj iutzxur cnoin g igxklar yzaje ul znkox igvgiozoky gtj
uhykxbgzout ul znk cuxqotmy ul tgzobk iutzxur ynuc zu hk iutyoyzktz cozn
znk sgotzktgtik ul rgc, uxjkx, gtj ruegrze.

Znk tkdz yahpkiz ot uxjkx ul osvuxzgtik ynuarj hk znk uxmgtofgzout ul
mubkxtsktz ot znk rgxmkx gjsotoyzxgzobk joboyouty iuxxkyvutjotm zu
iuatzoky, jkvgxzsktzy, ux vxubotiky, ot cnoin znk iussut otzkxkyzy ul sgte
ux ykbkxgr satoiovgrozoky lgrrotm coznot znk ygsk zxohgr rotky, ux znk ygsk
tgzaxgr mkumxgvnoigr rosozy, sge hkyz hk yahykxbkj he g iussut
gjsotoyzxgzout. Cnktkbkx znk Iussoyyout oy ul znk uvotout zngz znk
iutjozout ul gllgoxy ot znk oyrgtjy oy yain zngz znk iktzxgr gjsotoyzxgzout
sge yglkre hk zxgtylkxxkj lxus sorozgxe zu iobor iutzxur znke corr xkvuxz
zngz iutirayout zu eua, cozn znkox xkiussktjgzouty gy zu znk luxs ul
iktzxgr mubkxtsktz zu hk kyzghroynkj lux znk vaxvuyk ul zgqotm ubkx znk
iutzxur.

Hkmottotm cozn znk 1yz jge ul Ykvzkshkx, 1900, znk gaznuxoze zu kdkxioyk,
yahpkiz zu se gvvxubgr, znxuamn znk Ykixkzgxe ul Cgx, zngz vgxz ul znk
vuckx ul mubkxtsktz ot znk Vnorovvotk Oyrgtjy cnoin oy ul g rkmoyrgzobk
tgzaxk oy zu hk zxgtylkxxkj lxus znk Sorozgxe Mubkxtux ul znk oyrgtjy zu
znoy Iussoyyout, zu hk znkxkglzkx kdkxioykj he znks ot znk vrgik gtj yzkgj
ul znk Sorozgxe Mubkxtux, atjkx yain xarky gtj xkmargzouty gy eua yngrr
vxkyixohk, atzor znk kyzghroynsktz ul znk iobor iktzxgr mubkxtsktz lux znk
oyrgtjy iutzksvrgzkj ot znk rgyz luxkmuotm vgxgmxgvn, ux atzor Iutmxkyy
yngrr uznkxcoyk vxubojk. Kdkxioyk ul znoy rkmoyrgzobk gaznuxoze corr
otirajk znk sgqotm ul xarky gtj uxjkxy, ngbotm znk kllkiz ul rgc, lux znk
xgoyotm ul xkbktak he zgdky, iayzusy jazoky, gtj osvuyzy; znk gvvxuvxogzout
gtj kdvktjozaxk ul vahroi latjy ul znk oyrgtjy; znk kyzghroynsktz ul gt
kjaigzoutgr yeyzks znxuamnuaz znk oyrgtjy; znk kyzghroynsktz ul g yeyzks
zu ykiaxk gt klloioktz iobor ykxboik; znk uxmgtofgzout gtj kyzghroynsktz ul
iuaxzy; znk uxmgtofgzout gtj kyzghroynsktz ul satoiovgr gtj jkvgxzsktzgr
mubkxtsktzy, gtj grr uznkx sgzzkxy ul g iobor tgzaxk lux cnoin znk Sorozgxe
Mubkxtux oy tuc iusvkzktz zu vxubojk he xarky ux uxjkxy ul g rkmoyrgzobk
ingxgizkx.

Znk Iussoyyout corr gryu ngbk vuckx jaxotm znk ygsk vkxouj zu gvvuotz zu
ulloik yain ulloikxy atjkx znk pajoiogr, kjaigzoutgr, gtj iobor-ykxboik
yeyzksy gtj ot znk satoiovgr gtj jkvgxzsktzgr mubkxtsktzy gy yngrr hk
vxubojkj lux. Atzor znk iusvrkzk zxgtylkx ul iutzxur znk Sorozgxe Mubkxtux
corr xksgot znk inokl kdkiazobk nkgj ul znk mubkxtsktz ul znk oyrgtjy, gtj
corr kdkxioyk znk kdkiazobk gaznuxoze tuc vuyykyykj he nos gtj tuz nkxkot
kdvxkyyre gyyomtkj zu znk Iussoyyout, yahpkiz, nuckbkx, zu znk xarky gtj
uxjkxy ktgizkj he znk Iussoyyout ot znk kdkxioyk ul znk rkmoyrgzobk vuckxy
iutlkxxkj avut znks. Ot znk skgtzosk znk satoiovgr gtj jkvgxzsktzgr
mubkxtsktzy corr iutzotak zu xkvuxz zu znk Sorozgxe Mubkxtux gtj hk yahpkiz
zu noy gjsotoyzxgzobk yavkxboyout gtj iutzxur, atjkx euax joxkizout, haz
zngz yavkxboyout gtj iutzxur corr hk iutlotkj coznot znk tgxxuckyz rosozy
iutyoyzktz cozn znk xkwaoxksktz zngz znk vuckxy ul mubkxtsktz ot znk
satoiovgrozoky gtj jkvgxzsktzy yngrr hk nutkyzre gtj kllkizobkre kdkxioykj
gtj zngz rgc gtj uxjkx gtj otjobojagr lxkkjus yngrr hk sgotzgotkj.

Grr rkmoyrgzobk xarky gtj uxjkxy, kyzghroynsktzy ul mubkxtsktz, gtj
gvvuotzsktzy zu ulloik he znk Iussoyyout corr zgqk kllkiz osskjogzkre, ux
gz yain zosky gy znke yngrr jkyomtgzk, yahpkiz zu euax gvvxubgr gtj gizout
avut znk iusotm ot ul znk Iussoyyout'y xkvuxzy, cnoin gxk zu hk sgjk lxus
zosk zu zosk gy znkox gizout oy zgqkt. Cnkxkbkx iobor mubkxtsktzy gxk
iutyzozazkj atjkx znk joxkizout ul znk Iussoyyout yain sorozgxe vuyzy,
mgxxoyuty, gtj luxiky corr hk iutzotakj lux znk yavvxkyyout ul otyaxxkizout
gtj hxomgtjgmk gtj znk sgotzktgtik ul rgc gtj uxjkx gy znk Sorozgxe
Iussgtjkx yngrr jkks xkwaoyozk, gtj znk sorozgxe luxiky yngrr hk gz grr
zosky yahpkiz, atjkx noy uxjkxy, zu znk igrr ul znk iobor gaznuxozoky lux
znk sgotzktgtik ul rgc gtj uxjkx gtj znk ktluxiksktz ul znkox gaznuxoze.

Ot znk kyzghroynsktz ul satoiovgr mubkxtsktzy znk Iussoyyout corr zgqk gy
znk hgyoy ul znkox cuxq znk mubkxtsktzy kyzghroynkj he znk Sorozgxe
Mubkxtux atjkx noy uxjkx ul Gamayz 8, 1899. gtj atjkx znk xkvuxz ul znk
hugxj iutyzozazkj he znk Sorozgxe Mubkxtux he noy uxjkx ul Pgtagxe 29,
1900, zu luxsargzk gtj xkvuxz g vrgt ul satoiovgr mubkxtsktz, ul cnoin Noy
Nutux Igekzgtu Gxkrrgtu, Vxkyojktz ul znk Gajoktiog, cgy ingoxsgt, gtj znke
corr mobk zu znk iutirayouty ul zngz hugxj znk ckomnz gtj iutyojkxgzout
cnoin znk nomn ingxgizkx gtj joyzotmaoynkj ghorozoky ul ozy skshkxy
payzole.

Ot znk iutyzozazout ul jkvgxzsktzgr ux vxubotiogr mubkxtsktzy znke corr
mobk kyvkiogr gzzktzout zu znk kdoyzotm mubkxtsktz ul znk oyrgtj ul Tkmxuy,
iutyzozazkj, cozn znk gvvxubgr ul znk vkuvrk ul zngz oyrgtj, atjkx znk
uxjkx ul znk Sorozgxe Mubkxtux ul Pare 22, 1899, gtj glzkx bkxoleotm, yu
lgx gy sge hk vxgizoighrk, znk xkvuxzy ul znk yaiikyylar cuxqotm ul zngz
mubkxtsktz znke corr hk maojkj he znk kdvkxoktik znay giwaoxkj yu lgx gy oz
sge hk gvvroighrk zu znk iutjozout kdoyzotm ot uznkx vuxzouty ul znk
Vnorovvotky. Znke corr gbgor znksykrbky, zu znk larrkyz jkmxkk vxgizoighrk,
ul znk iutirayouty xkginkj he znk vxkbouay Iussoyyout zu znk Vnorovvotky.

Ot znk joyzxohazout ul vuckxy gsutm znk mubkxtsktzy uxmgtofkj he znk
Iussoyyout, znk vxkyasvzout oy grcgey zu hk ot lgbux ul znk ysgrrkx
yahjoboyout, yu zngz grr znk vuckxy cnoin igt vxuvkxre hk kdkxioykj he znk
satoiovgr mubkxtsktz yngrr hk bkyzkj ot zngz mubkxtsktz, gtj grr znk vuckxy
ul g suxk mktkxgr ingxgizkx cnoin igt hk kdkxioykj he znk jkvgxzsktzgr
mubkxtsktz yngrr hk bkyzkj ot zngz mubkxtsktz, gtj yu zngz ot znk
mubkxtsktzgr yeyzks, cnoin oy znk xkyarz ul znk vxuikyy, znk iktzxgr
mubkxtsktz ul znk oyrgtjy, lurrucotm znk kdgsvrk ul znk joyzxohazout ul znk
vuckxy hkzckkt znk Yzgzky gtj znk Tgzoutgr Mubkxtsktz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky,
yngrr ngbk tu joxkiz gjsotoyzxgzout kdikvz ul sgzzkxy ul vaxkre mktkxgr
iutikxt, gtj yngrr ngbk utre yain yavkxboyout gtj iutzxur ubkx ruigr
mubkxtsktzy gy sge hk tkikyygxe zu ykiaxk gtj ktluxik lgoznlar gtj
klloioktz gjsotoyzxgzout he ruigr ulloikxy.

Znk sgte Jollkxktz jkmxkky ul ioborofgzout gtj bgxokzoky ul iayzus gtj
igvgioze gsutm znk vkuvrk ul znk jollkxktz oyrgtjy vxkirajk bkxe jklotozk
otyzxaizout gy zu znk vgxz cnoin znk vkuvrk yngrr zgqk ot znk ykrkizout ul
znkox uct ulloikxy; haz znkyk mktkxgr xarky gxk zu hk uhykxbkj: Zngz ot grr
igyky znk satoiovgr ulloikxy, cnu gjsotoyzkx znk ruigr gllgoxy ul znk
vkuvrk, gxk zu hk ykrkizkj he znk vkuvrk, gtj zngz cnkxkbkx ulloikxy ul
suxk kdzktjkj paxoyjoizout gxk zu hk ykrkizkj ot gte cge, tgzobky ul znk
oyrgtjy gxk zu hk vxklkxxkj, gtj ol znke igt hk luatj iusvkzktz gtj corrotm
zu vkxluxs znk jazoky, znke gxk zu xkikobk znk ulloiky ot vxklkxktik zu gte
uznkxy.

Oz corr hk tkikyygxe zu lorr yusk ulloiky lux znk vxkyktz cozn Gskxoigty
cnoin glzkx g zosk sge ckrr hk lorrkj he tgzobky ul znk oyrgtjy. Gy yuut gy
vxgizoighrk g yeyzks lux gyikxzgototm znk skxoz gtj loztkyy ul igtjojgzky
lux iobor ulloik ynuarj hk vaz ot luxik. Gt otjoyvktyghrk wagroloigzout lux
grr ulloiky gtj vuyozouty ul zxayz gtj gaznuxoze ot znk oyrgtjy sayz hk
ghyurazk gtj atiutjozoutgr ruegrze zu znk Atozkj Yzgzky, gtj ghyurazk gtj
atngsvkxkj gaznuxoze gtj vuckx zu xksubk gtj vatoyn gte ulloikx jkbogzotm
lxus zngz yzgtjgxj sayz gz grr zosky hk xkzgotkj ot znk ngtjy ul znk
iktzxgr gaznuxoze ul znk oyrgtjy.

Ot grr znk luxsy ul mubkxtsktz gtj gjsotoyzxgzobk vxuboyouty cnoin znke gxk
gaznuxofkj zu vxkyixohk znk Iussoyyout ynuarj hkgx ot sotj zngz znk
mubkxtsktz cnoin znke gxk kyzghroynotm oy jkyomtkj tuz lux uax
ygzoylgizout, ux lux znk kdvxkyyout ul uax znkuxkzoigr bokcy, haz lux znk
ngvvotkyy, vkgik, gtj vxuyvkxoze ul znk vkuvrk ul znk Vnorovvotk Oyrgtjy,
gtj znk skgyaxky gjuvzkj ynuarj hk sgjk zu iutluxs zu znkox iayzusy, znkox
nghozy, gtj kbkt nkox vxkpajoiky, zu znk larrkyz kdzktz iutyoyzktz cozn znk
giiusvroynsktz ul znk Otjoyvktyghrk xkwaoyozky ul payz gtj kllkizobk
mubkxtsktz.

Gz znk ygsk zosk znk Iussoyyout ynuarj hkgx ot sotj, gtj znk vkuvrk ul znk
oyrgtjy ynuarj hk sgjk vrgotre zu atjkxyzgtj, zngz znkxk gxk ikxzgot mxkgz
vxotiovrky ul mubkxtsktz cnoin ngbk hkkt sgjk znk hgyoy ul uax mubkxtsktzgr
yeyzks cnoin ck jkks kyyktzogr zu znk xark ul rgc gtj znk sgotzktgtik ul
otjobojagr lxkkjus, gtj ul cnoin znke ngbk, atluxzatgzkre, hkkt jktokj znk
kdvkxoktik vuyykyykj he ay; zngz znkxk gxk gryu ikxzgot vxgizoigr xarky ul
mubkxtsktz cnoin ck ngbk luatj zu hk kyyktzogr zu znk vxkykxbgzout ul znkyk
mxkgz vxotiovrky ul rohkxze gtj rgc, gtj zngz znkyk vxotiovrky gtj znkyk
xarky ul mubkxtsktz sayz hk kyzghroynkj gtj sgotzgotkj ot znkox oyrgtjy lux
znk ygqk ul znkox rohkxze gtj ngvvotkyy, nuckbkx sain znke sge iutlroiz
cozn znk iayzusy ux rgcy ul vxuikjaxk cozn cnoin znke gxk lgsorogx.

Oz oy kbojktz zngz znk suyz ktromnzktkj znuamnz ul znk Vnorovvotk Oyrgtjy
larre gvvxkiogzky znk osvuxzgtik ul znkyk vxotiovrky gtj xarky, gtj znke
corr otkbozghre coznot g ynuxz zosk iussgtj atobkxygr gyyktz. Avut kbkxe
joboyout gtj hxgtin ul znk mubkxtsktz ul znk Vnorovvotky, znkxkluxk, sayz
hk osvuykj znkyk otbourghrk xarky:

Zngz tu vkxyut yngrr hk jkvxobkj ul rolk, rohkxze, ux vxuvkxze coznuaz jak
vxuikyy ul rgc; zngz vxobgzk vxuvkxze yngrr tuz hk zgqkt lux vahroi ayk
coznuaz payz iusvktygzout; zngz ot grr ixosotgr vxuykiazouty znk giiaykj
yngrr ktpue znk xomnz zu g yvkkje gtj vahroi zxogr, zu hk otluxskj ul znk
tgzaxk gtj igayk ul znk giiaygzout, zu hk iutlxutzkj cozn znk coztkyyky
gmgotyz nos, zu ngbk iusvaryuxe vxuikyy lux uhzgototm coztkyyky ot noy
lgbux, gtj zu ngbk znk gyyoyzgtik ul iuatykr lux noy jklktyk; zngz
kdikyyobk hgor yngrr tuz hk xkwaoxkj, tux kdikyyobk lotky osvuykj, tux
ixakr gtj atayagr vatoynsktz otlroizkj; zngz tu vkxyut yngrr hk vaz zcoik
ot pkuvgxje lux znk ygsk ullktyk, ux hk iusvkrrkj ot gte ixosotgr igyk zu
hk g coztkyy gmgotyz nosykrl; zngz znk xomnz zu hk ykiaxk gmgotyz
atxkgyutghrk ykgxinky gtj ykofaxky yngrr tuz hk bourgzkj; zngz tkoznkx
yrgbkxe tux otburatzgxe ykxbozajk yngrr kdoyz kdikvz gy g vatoynsktz lux
ixosk; zngz tu horr ul gzzgotjkx ux kd-vuyz lgizu rgc yngrr hk vgyykj; zngz
tu rgc yngrr hk vgyykj ghxojmotm znk lxkkjus ul yvkkin ux ul znk vxkyy, ux
znk xomnzy ul znk vkuvrk zu vkgikghre gyykshrk gtj vkzozout znk Mubkxtsktz
lux g xkjxkyy ul mxokbgtiky; zngz tu rgc yngrr hk sgjk xkyvkizotm gt
kyzghroynsktz ul xkromout, ux vxunohozotm znk lxkk kdkxioyk znkxkul, gtj
zngz znk lxkk kdkxioyk gtj ktpuesktz ul xkromouay vxulkyyout gtj cuxynov
coznuaz joyixosotgzout ux vxklkxktik yngrr luxkbkx hk grruckj.

Oz corr hk znk jaze ul znk Iussoyyout zu sgqk g znuxuamn otbkyzomgzout otzu
znk zozrky zu znk rgxmk zxgizy ul rgtj nkrj ux irgoskj he otjobojagry ux he
xkromouay uxjkxy; otzu znk payzoik ul znk irgosy gtj iusvrgotzy sgjk
gmgotyz yain rgtjnurjkxy he znk vkuvrk ul znk oyrgtj ux gte vgxz ul znk
vkuvrk, gtj zu ykkq he coyk gtj vkgikghrk skgyaxky g payz ykzzrksktz ul znk
iutzxubkxyoky gtj xkjxkyy ul cxutmy cnoin ngbk igaykj yzxolk gtj hruujynkj
ot znk vgyz. Ot znk vkxluxsgtik ul znoy jaze znk Iussoyyout oy ktpuotkj zu
ykk zngz tu otpayzoik oy jutk; zu ngbk xkmgxj lux yahyzgtzogr xomnzy gtj
kwaoze, joyxkmgxjotm zkintoigrozoky yu lgx gy yahyzgtzogr xomnz vkxsozy,
gtj zu uhykxbk znk lurrucotm xarky:

Zngz znk vxuboyout ul znk Zxkgze ul Vgxoy vrkjmotm znk Atozkj Yzgzky zu znk
vxuzkizout ul grr xomnzy ul vxuvkxze ot znk oyrgtjy, gtj gy ckrr znk
vxotiovrk ul uax uct Mubkxtsktz cnoin vxunohozy znk zgqotm ul vxobgzk
vxuvkxze coznuaz jak vxuikyy ul rgc, yngrr tuz hk bourgzkj; zngz znk
ckrlgxk ul znk vkuvrk ul znk oyrgtjy, cnoin ynuarj hk g vgxgsuatz
iutyojkxgzout, yngrr hk gzzgotkj iutyoyzktzre cozn znoy xark ul vxuvkxze
xomnz; zngz ol oz hkiusky tkikyygxe lux znk vahroi otzkxkyz ul znk vkuvrk
ul znk oyrgtjy zu joyvuyk ul irgosy zu vxuvkxze cnoin znk Iussoyyout lotjy
zu hk tuz rgclarre giwaoxkj gtj nkrj joyvuyozout yngrr hk sgjk znkxkul he
jak rkmgr vxuikjaxk, ot cnoin znkxk yngrr hk larr uvvuxzatoze lux lgox gtj
osvgxzogr nkgxotm gtj pajmsktz; zngz ol znk ygsk vahroi otzkxkyzy xkwaoxk
znk kdzotmaoynsktz ul vxuvkxze xomnzy rgclarre giwaoxkj gtj nkrj jak
iusvktygzout yngrr hk sgjk uaz ul znk vahroi zxkgyaxe znkxkluxk; zngz tu
luxs ul xkromout gtj tu sotoyzkx ul xkromout yngrr hk luxikj avut gte
iussatoze ux avut gte iozofkt ul znk oyrgtjy; zngz, avut znk uznkx ngtj, tu
sotoyzkx ul xkromout yngrr hk otzkxlkxkj cozn ux surkyzkj ot lurrucotm noy
igrrotm, gtj zngz znk ykvgxgzout hkzckkt Yzgzk gtj Inaxin yngrr hk xkgr,
ktzoxk, gtj ghyurazk.

Oz corr hk znk jaze ul znk Iussoyyout zu vxusuzk gtj kdzktj, gtj, gy znke
lotj uiigyout, zu osvxubk znk yeyzks ul kjaigzout grxkgje otgamaxgzkj he
znk sorozgxe gaznuxozoky. Ot juotm znoy znke ynuarj xkmgxj gy ul loxyz
osvuxzgtik znk kdzktyout ul g yeyzks ul vxosgxe kjaigzout cnoin yngrr hk
lxkk zu grr, gtj cnoin yngrr zktj zu loz znk vkuvrk lux znk jazoky ul
iozofktynov gtj lux znk uxjotgxe gbuigzouty ul g ioborofkj iussatoze. Znoy
otyzxaizout ynuarj hk mobkt ot znk loxyz otyzgtik ot kbkxe vgxz ul znk
oyrgtjy ot znk rgtmagmk ul znk vkuvrk. Ot bokc ul znk mxkgz tashkx ul
rgtmagmky yvuqkt he znk jollkxktz zxohky, oz oy kyvkiogrre osvuxzgtz zu znk
vxuyvkxoze ul znk oyrgtjy zngz g iussut skjoas ul iussatoigzout sge hk
kyzghroynkj, gtj oz oy uhbouayre jkyoxghrk zngz znoy skjoas ynuarj hk znk
Ktmroyn rgtmagmk. Kyvkiogr gzzktzout ynuarj hk gz utik mobkt zu glluxjotm
larr uvvuxzatoze zu grr znk vkuvrk ul znk oyrgtjy zu giwaoxk znk ayk ul znk
Ktmroyn rgtmagmk.

Oz sge hk ckrr zngz znk sgot ingtmky cnoin ynuarj hk sgjk ot znk yeyzks ul
zgdgzout gtj ot znk huje ul znk rgcy atjkx cnoin znk vkuvrk gxk mubkxtkj,
kdikvz yain ingtmky gy ngbk grxkgje hkkt sgjk he znk sorozgxe mubkxtsktz,
ynuarj hk xkrkmgzkj zu znk iobor mubkxtsktz cnoin oy zu hk kyzghroynkj
atjkx znk gayvoiky ul znk Iussoyyout. Oz corr, nuckbkx, hk znk jaze ul znk
Iussoyyout zu otwaoxk joromktzre gy zu cnkznkx znkxk gxk gte laxznkx
ingtmky cnoin uamnz tuz zu hk jkrgekj, gtj ol yu, znke gxk gaznuxofkj zu
sgqk yain ingtmky yahpkiz zu euax gvvxubgr. Ot juotm yu znke gxk zu hkgx ot
sotj zngz zgdky cnoin zktj 6 vktgrofk ux xkvxkyy otjayzxe gtj ktzkxvxoyk
gxk zu hk gbuojkj; zngz vxuboyouty lux zgdgzout ynuarj hk yosvrk, yu zngz
znke sge hk atjkxyzuuj he znk vkuvrk; zngz znke ynuarj gllkiz znk lkckyz
vxgizoighrk yahpkizy ul zgdgzout cnoin corr ykxbk lux znk mktkxgr
joyzxohazout ul znk haxjkt.

Znk sgot huje ul znk rgcy cnoin xkmargzk znk xomnzy gtj uhromgzouty ul znk
vkuvrk ynuarj hk sgotzgotkj cozn gy rozzrk otzkxlkxktik gy vuyyohrk.
Ingtmky sgjk ynuarj hk sgotre ot vxuikjaxk, gtj ot znk ixosotgr rgcy zu
ykiaxk yvkkje gtj osvgxzogr zxogry, gtj gz znk ygsk zosk kllkizobk
gjsotoyzxgzout gtj xkyvkiz lux otjobojagr xomnzy.

Ot jkgrotm cozn znk atioborofkj zxohky ul znk oyrgtjy znk Iussoyyout ynuarj
gjuvz znk ygsk iuaxyk lurruckj he Iutmxkyy ot vkxsozzotm znk zxohky ul uax
Tuxzn Gskxoigt Otjogty zu sgotzgot znkox zxohgr uxmgtofgzout gtj
mubkxtsktz, gtj atjkx cnoin sgte ul znuyk zxohky gxk tuc robotm ot vkgik
gtj iutzktzsktz, yaxxuatjkj he g ioborofgzout zu cnoin znke gxk atghrk ux
atcorrotm zu iutluxs. Yain zxohgr mubkxtsktzy ynuarj, nuckbkx, hk yahpkizkj
zu coyk gtj loxs xkmargzout, gtj, coznuaz atjak ux vkzze otzkxlkxktik,
iutyzgtz gtj gizobk klluxz ynuarj hk kdkxioykj zu vxkbktz hgxhgxuay
vxgizoiky gtj otzxujaik ioborofkj iayzusy.

Avut grr ulloikxy gtj ksvruekky ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, huzn iobor gtj
sorozgxe, ynuarj hk osvxkyykj g yktyk ul znk jaze zu uhykxbk tuz skxkre znk
sgzkxogr haz znk vkxyutgr gtj yuiogr xomnzy ul znk vkuvrk ul znk oyrgtjy,
gtj zu zxkgz znks cozn znk ygsk iuaxzkye gtj xkyvkiz lux znkox vkxyutgr
jomtoze cnoin znk vkuvrk ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky gxk giiayzuskj C xkwaoxk lxus
kgin uznkx.

Znk gxzoirky ul igvozargzout ul znk ioze ul Sgtorg ut znk 13zn ul Gamayz,
1898, iutirajkj cozn znkyk cuxjy:

"Znoy ioze, ozy otnghozgtzy, ozy inaxinky gtj xkromouay cuxynov, ozy
kjaigzoutgr kyzghroynsktzy, gtj ozy vxobgzk vxuvkxze ul grr jkyixovzouty,
gxk vrgikj atjkx znk yvkiogr yglkmagxj ul znk lgozn gtj nutux ul znk
Gskxoigt Gxse."

O hkrokbk zngz znoy vrkjmk ngy hkkt lgoznlarre qkvz. Gy nomn gtj ygixkj gt
uhromgzout xkyzy avut znk Mubkxtsktz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky zu mobk
vxuzkizout lux vxuvkxze gtj rolk, iobor gtj xkromouay lxkkjus, gtj coyk,
loxs, gtj atykrloyn maojgtik ot znk vgzny ul vkgik gtj vxuyvkxoze zu grr
znk vkuvrk ul znk Vnorovvotk Oyrgtjy. O ingxmk znoy Iussoyyout zu rghux lux
znk larr vkxluxsgtik ul znoy uhromgzout, cnoin iutikxty znk nutux gtj
iutyioktik ul znkox iuatzxe, ot znk loxs nuvk zngz znxuamn znkox rghuxy grr
znk otnghozgtzy ul znk Vnorovvotk Oyrgtjy sge iusk zu ruuq hgiq cozn
mxgzozajk zu znk jge cnkt Muj mgbk boizuxe zu Gskxoigt gxsy gz Sgtorg gtj
ykz znkox rgtj atjkx znk yubkxkomtze gtj znk vxuzkizout ul znk vkuvrk ul
znk Atozkj Yzgzky.

Iuotiojktzre cozn znk ktzxgtik ul znk Iussoyyout avut ozy rghuxy O igaykj
zu hk oyyakj he Mktkxgr SgiGxznax, znk Sorozgxe Mubkxtux ul znk
Vnorovvotky, ut Patk 21, 1900, g vxuirgsgzout ul gstkyze ot mktkxuay zkxsy,
ul cnoin sgte ul znk otyaxmktzy zuuq gjbgtzgmk, gsutm znks g tashkx ul
osvuxzgtz rkgjkxy.

Znoy Iussoyyout, iusvuykj ul ksotktz iozofkty xkvxkyktzotm znk jobkxyk
mkumxgvnoigr gtj vurozoigr otzkxkyzy ul znk iuatzxe, gtj hxotmotm zu znkox
zgyq znk xovk lxaozy ul rutm gtj otzkrromktz ykxboik ot kjaigzoutgr,
gjsotoyzxgzobk, gtj pajoiogr igxkkxy, sgjk mxkgz vxumxkyy lxus znk uazykz.
Gy kgxre gy Gamayz 21, 1900, oz yahsozzkj g vxkrosotgxe xkvuxz, cnoin corr
hk rgoj hkluxk znk Iutmxkyy, gtj lxus cnoin oz gvvkgxy zngz grxkgje znk
muuj kllkizy ul xkzaxtotm uxjkx gxk lkrz; zngz hayotkyy, otzkxxavzkj he
nuyzorozoky, oy osvxubotm gy vkgik kdzktjy; zngz g rgxmkx gxkg oy atjkx
yamgx iarzobgzout zngt kbkx hkluxk; zngz znk iayzusy xkbktaky gxk mxkgzkx
zngt gz gte zosk jaxotm znk Yvgtoyn xark; zngz kiutuse gtj klloioktie ot
znk sorozgxe gjsotoyzxgzout ngbk ixkgzkj g yaxvray latj ul $6,000,000,
gbgorghrk lux tkkjkj vahroi osvxubksktzy; zngz g yzxotmktz iobor-ykxboik
rgc oy ot vxkvgxgzout; zngz xgorxugj iussatoigzouty gxk kdvgtjotm, uvktotm
av xoin joyzxoizy, gtj zngz g iusvxknktyobk yinksk ul kjaigzout oy hkotm
uxmgtofkj.

Rgzkx xkvuxzy lxus znk Iussoyyout ynuc ekz suxk ktiuaxgmotm gjbgtik zucgxj
otyaxotm znk hktklozy ul rohkxze gtj muuj mubkxtsktz zu znk Lorovotuy, ot
znk otzkxkyz ul nasgtoze gtj cozn znk gos ul haorjotm av gt ktjaxotm,
ykrl-yavvuxzotm, gtj ykrl-gjsotoyzkxotm iussatoze ot znuyk lgx kgyzkxt
ykgy. O cuarj osvxkyy avut znk Iutmxkyy zngz cngzkbkx rkmoyrgzout sge hk
ktgizkj ot xkyvkiz zu znk Vnorovvotk Oyrgtjy ynuarj hk grutm znkyk mktkxuay
rotky. Znk luxzatk ul cgx ngy znxuct avut znoy tgzout gt atyuamnz zxayz
cnoin ynuarj hk atykrloynre joyingxmkj, gtj jkburbkj avut znoy Mubkxtsktz g
suxgr gy ckrr gy sgzkxogr xkyvutyohoroze zucgxj znkyk sorrouty cnus ck ngbk
lxkkj lxus gt uvvxkyyobk euqk.

O ngbk ut gtuznkx uiigyout igrrkj znk Lorovotuy znk cgxjy ul znk tgzout.
Uax uhromgzout gy magxjogt cgy tuz romnzre gyyaskj; oz sayz tuz hk
uznkxcoyk zngt nutkyzre larlorrkj, gosotm loxyz ul grr zu hktkloz znuyk cnu
ngbk iusk atjkx uax luyzkxotm igxk. Oz oy uax jaze yu zu zxkgz znks zngz
uax lrgm sge hk tu rkyy hkrubkj ot znk suatzgoty ul Rafut gtj znk lkxzork
futky ul Sotjgtgu gtj Tkmxuy zngt oz oy gz nusk, zngz znkxk gy nkxk oz
yngrr hk znk xkbkxkj yeshur ul rohkxze, ktromnzktsktz, gtj vxumxkyy ot
kbkxe gbktak ul jkbkruvsktz.

Znk Lorovotuy gxk g xgik waoiq zu rkgxt gtj zu vxuloz he qtucrkjmk Nk cuarj
hk xgyn cnu, cozn znk zkginotmy ul iutzksvuxgtkuay noyzuxe ot bokc, cuarj
lod g rosoz zu znk jkmxkk ul iarzaxk gtj gjbgtiksktz ekz coznot znk xkgin
ul znkyk vkuvrk ol uax jaze zucgxj znks hk lgoznlarre vkxluxskj.

Znk iobor mubkxtsktz ul Vakxzu Xoiu vxubojkj lux he znk giz ul znk Iutmxkyy
gvvxubkj Gvxor 12, 1900 oy ot yaiikyylar uvkxgzout Znk iuaxzy ngbk hkkt
kyzghroynkj. Znk Mubkxtux gtj noy gyyuiogzky, cuxqotm otzkrromktzre gtj
ngxsutouayre, gxk skkzotm cozn Iussktjghrk yaiikyy.

Ut znk 6zn ul Tubkshkx g mktkxgr krkizout cgy nkrj ot znk oyrgtj lux
skshkxy ul znk Rkmoyrgzaxk, gtj znk huje krkizkj ngy hkkt igrrkj zu iutbktk
ut znk loxyz Sutjge ul Jkikshkx.

O xkiussktj zngz rkmoyrgzout hk ktgizkj he znk Iutmxkyy iutlkxxotm avut znk
Ykixkzgxe ul znk Otzkxoux yavkxboyout ubkx znk vahroi rgtjy ot Vakxzu Xoiu,
gtj zngz nk hk joxkizkj zu gyikxzgot znk ruigzout gtj wagtzoze ul rgtjy znk
zozrk zu cnoin xksgotkj ot znk Ixuct ul Yvgot gz znk jgzk ul ikyyout ul
Vakxzu Xoiu zu znk Atozkj Yzgzky, gtj zngz gvvxuvxogzouty tkikyygxe lux
yaxbkey hk sgjk, gtj zngz znk skznujy ul znk joyvuyozout ul yain rgtjy hk
vxkyixohkj he rgc.

Ut znk 25zn ul Pare, 1900, O joxkizkj zngz g igrr hk oyyakj lux gt krkizout
ot Iahg lux skshkxy ul g iutyzozazoutgr iutbktzout zu lxgsk g iutyzozazout
gy g hgyoy lux g yzghrk gtj otjkvktjktz mubkxtsktz ot znk oyrgtj. Ot
vaxyagtik znkxkul znk Sorozgxe Mubkxtux oyyakj znk lurrucotm otyzxaizouty:
Cnkxkgy znk Iutmxkyy ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, he ozy puotz xkyurazout ul Gvxor
20, 1898, jkirgxkj:

"Zngz znk vkuvrk ul znk oyrgtj ul Iahg gxk, gtj ul xomnz uamnz zu hk, lxkk
gtj otjkvktjktz.

"Zngz znk Atozkj Yzgzky nkxkhe joyirgosy gte joyvuyozout ux otzktzout zu
kdkxioyk yubkxkomtze, paxoyjoizout, ux iutzxur ubkx ygoj oyrgtj kdikvz lux
znk vgioloigzout znkxkul, gtj gyykxzy ozy jkzkxsotgzout, cnkt zngz oy
giiusvroynkj, zu rkgbk znk mubkxtsktz gtj iutzxur ul znk oyrgtj zu ozy
vkuvrk;"

Gtj cnkxkgy, znk vkuvrk ul Iahg ngbk kyzghroynkj satoiovgr mubkxtsktzy,
jkxobotm znkox gaznuxoze lxus znk yallxgmky ul znk vkuvrk mobkt atjkx payz
gtj kwagr rgcy, gtj gxk tuc xkgje, ot roqk sgttkx, zu vxuikkj zu znk
kyzghroynsktz ul g mktkxgr mubkxtsktz cnoin yngrr gyyask gtj kdkxioyk
yubkxkomtze, paxoyjoizout, gtj iutzxur ubkx znk oyrgtj:

Znkxkluxk, oz oy uxjkxkj zngz g mktkxgr krkizout hk nkrj ot znk oyrgtj ul
Iahg ut znk znoxj Ygzaxjge ul Ykvzkshkx, ot znk ekgx totkzkkt natjxkj, zu
krkiz jkrkmgzky zu g iutbktzout zu skkz ot znk ioze ul Ngbgtg gz zckrbk
u'iruiq tuut ut znk loxyz Sutjge ul Tubkshkx, ot znk ekgx totkzkkt natjxkj,
zu lxgsk gtj gjuvz g iutyzozazout lux znk vkuvrk ul Iahg, gtj gy g vgxz
znkxkul zu vxubojk lux gtj gmxkk cozn znk Mubkxtsktz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky
avut znk xkrgzouty zu kdoyz hkzckkt zngz Mubkxtsktz gtj znk Mubkxtsktz ul
Iahg, gtj zu vxubojk lux znk krkizout he znk vkuvrk ul ulloikxy atjkx yain
iutyzozazout gtj znk zxgtylkx ul mubkxtsktz zu znk ulloikxy yu krkizkj.

Znk krkizout corr hk nkrj ot znk ykbkxgr buzotm vxkiotizy ul znk oyrgtj
atjkx, gtj vaxyagtz zu, znk vxuboyouty ul znk krkizuxgr rgc ul Gvxor 18,
1900, gtj znk gsktjsktzy znkxkul. Znk krkizout cgy nkrj ut znk 15zn ul
Ykvzkshkx, gtj znk iutbktzout gyykshrkj ut znk 5zn ul Tubkshkx, 1900, gtj
oy tuc ot ykyyout.

Ot igrrotm znk iutbktzout zu uxjkx, znk Sorozgxe Mubkxtux ul Iahg sgjk znk
lurrucotm yzgzksktz: Gy Sorozgxe Mubkxtux ul znk oyrgtj, xkvxkyktzotm znk
Vxkyojktz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, O igrr znoy iutbktzout zu uxjkx.

Oz corr hk euax jaze, loxyz, zu lxgsk gtj gjuvz g iutyzozazout lux Iahg,
gtj cnkt zngz ngy hkkt jutk zu luxsargzk cngz ot euax uvotout uamnz zu hk
znk xkrgzouty hkzckkt Iahg gtj znk Atozkj Yzgzky.

Znk iutyzozazout sayz hk gjkwagzk zu ykiaxk g yzghrk, uxjkxre, gtj lxkk
mubkxtsktz.

Cnkt eua ngbk luxsargzkj znk xkrgzouty cnoin ot euax uvotout uamnz zu kdoyz
hkzckkt Iahg gtj znk Atozkj Yzgzky znk Mubkxtsktz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky corr
juahzrkyy zgqk yain gizout ut ozy vgxz gy yngrr rkgj zu g lotgr gtj
gaznuxozgzobk gmxkksktz hkzckkt znk vkuvrk ul znk zcu iuatzxoky zu znk
vxusuzout ul znkox iussut otzkxkyzy.

Grr lxoktjy ul Iahg corr lurruc euax jkrohkxgzouty cozn znk jkkvkyz
otzkxkyz, kgxtkyzre jkyoxotm zngz eua yngrr xkgin payz iutirayouty, gtj
zngz he znk jomtoze, otjobojagr ykrl-xkyzxgotz, gtj coyk iutykxbgzoys cnoin
yngrr ingxgizkxofk euax vxuikkjotmy znk igvgioze ul znk Iahgt vkuvrk lux
xkvxkyktzgzobk mubkxtsktz sge hk yomtgrre orrayzxgzkj.

Znk latjgsktzgr joyzotizout hkzckkt zxak xkvxkyktzgzobk mubkxtsktz gtj
joizgzuxynov oy zngz ot znk luxskx kbkxe xkvxkyktzgzobk ul znk vkuvrk, ot
cngzkbkx ulloik, iutlotky nosykrl yzxoizre coznot znk rosozy ul noy jklotkj
vuckxy. Coznuaz yain xkyzxgotz znkxk igt hk tu lxkk iutyzozazoutgr
mubkxtsktz.

Atjkx znk uxjkx vaxyagtz zu cnoin eua ngbk hkkt krkizkj gtj iutbktkj eua
ngbk tu jaze gtj tu gaznuxoze zu zgqk vgxz ot znk vxkyktz mubkxtsktz ul znk
oyrgtj. Euax vuckxy gxk yzxoizre rosozkj he znk zkxsy ul zngz uxjkx. Cnkt
znk iutbktzout iutirajky ozy rghuxy O corr zxgtysoz zu znk Iutmxkyy znk
iutyzozazout gy lxgskj he znk iutbktzout lux ozy iutyojkxgzout gtj lux yain
gizout gy oz sge jkks gjboyghrk.

O xktkc znk xkiussktjgzout sgjk ot se yvkiogr skyygmk ul Lkhxagxe 10, 1899,
gy zu znk tkikyyoze lux ighrk iussatoigzout hkzckkt znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj
Ngcgoo, cozn kdzktyout zu Sgtorg. Yotik znkt ioxiasyzgtiky ngbk yzxoqotmre
ksvngyofkj znoy tkkj. Yaxbkey ngbk ynuct znk ktzoxk lkgyohoroze ul g ingot
ul ighrky cnoin gz kgin yzuvvotm vrgik yngrr zuain ut Gskxoigt zkxxozuxe,
yu zngz znk yeyzks yngrr hk atjkx uax uct iusvrkzk iutzxur. Sgtorg utik
coznot zkrkmxgvnoi xkgin, iuttkizout cozn znk yeyzksy ul znk Gyogzoi iugyz
cuarj uvkt otixkgykj gtj vxulozghrk uvvuxzatozoky lux g suxk joxkiz ighrk
xuazk lxus uax ynuxky zu znk Uxoktz zngt oy tuc glluxjkj he znk
zxgty-Gzrgtzoi, iutzotktzgr, gtj zxgty-Gyogt rotky. O axmk gzzktzout zu
znoy osvuxzgtz sgzzkx.

Znk vxkyktz yzxktmzn ul znk Gxse oy 100,000 skt--65,000 xkmargxy gtj
35,000 buratzkkxy. Atjkx znk giz ul Sgxin 2, 1899, ut znk 30zn ul Patk tkdz
znk vxkyktz buratzkkx luxik corr hk joyingxmkj gtj znk Xkmargx Gxse corr hk
xkjaikj zu 2,447 ulloikxy gtj 29,025 ktroyzkj skt.

Ot 1888 g Hugxj ul Ulloikxy iutbktkj he Vxkyojktz Irkbkrgtj gjuvzkj g
iusvxknktyobk yinksk ul iugyz-jklktyk luxzoloigzouty cnoin otburbkj znk
uazrge ul yuskznotm ubkx utk natjxkj sorrout jurrgxy. Znoy vrgt xkikobkj
znk gvvxubgr ul znk Iutmxkyy, gtj yotik znkt xkmargx gvvxuvxogzouty ngbk
hkkt sgjk gtj znk cuxq ul luxzoloigzout ngy yzkgjore vxumxkyykj.

Suxk zngt yodze sorrouty ul jurrgxy ngbk hkkt otbkyzkj ot g mxkgz tashkx ul
luxzy gtj maty, cozn grr znk iusvroigzkj gtj yioktzoloi sginotkxe gtj
krkizxoigr gvvrogtiky tkikyygxe lux znkox ayk. Znk vxuvkx igxk ul znoy
jklktyobk sginotkxe xkwaoxky skt zxgotkj ot ozy ayk. Znk tashkx ul skt
tkikyygxe zu vkxluxs znoy jaze grutk oy gyikxzgotkj he znk Cgx Jkvgxzsktz,
gz g sotosas grrucgtik, zu hk 18,420.

Znkxk gxk lolze-komnz ux suxk sorozgxe vuyzy ot znk Atozkj Yzgzky uznkx
zngt znk iugyz-jklktyk luxzoloigzouty.

Znk tashkx ul znkyk vuyzy oy hkotm iutyzgtzre otixkgykj he znk Iutmxkyy.
Suxk zngt $22,000,000 ngbk hkkt kdvktjkj ot haorjotm gtj kwaovsktz, gtj
znke igt utre hk igxkj lux he znk Xkmargx Gxse. Znk vuyzy tuc ot kdoyzktik
gtj uznkxy zu hk haorz vxubojk lux giiussujgzouty lux, gtj ol larre
mgxxoyutkj xkwaoxk, 26,000 zxuuvy. Sgte ul znkyk vuyzy gxk grutm uax
lxutzokx ux gz osvuxzgtz yzxgzkmoi vuotzy, znk uiiavgzout ul cnoin oy
tkikyygxe.

Ck ngbk ot Iahg hkzckkt 5,000 gtj 6,000 zxuuvy. Lux znk vxkyktz uax zxuuvy
ot zngz oyrgtj igttuz hk coznjxgct ux sgzkxogrre josotoynkj, gtj ikxzgotre
tuz atzor znk iutirayout ul znk rghuxy ul znk iutyzozazoutgr iutbktzout tuc
ot ykyyout gtj g mubkxtsktz vxubojkj he znk tkc iutyzozazout yngrr ngbk
hkkt kyzghroynkj gtj ozy yzghoroze gyyaxkj.

Ot Vakxzu Xoiu ck ngbk xkjaikj znk mgxxoyuty zu 1,636, cnoin otirajky 879
tgzobk zxuuvy. Znkxk oy tu xuus lux laxznkx xkjaizout nkxk.

Ck corr hk xkwaoxkj zu qkkv g iutyojkxghrk luxik ot znk Vnorovvotk Oyrgtjy
lux yusk zosk zu iusk. Lxus znk hkyz otluxsgzout uhzgotghrk ck corr tkkj
znkxk lux znk osskjogzk lazaxk lxus 45,000 zu 60,000 skt. O gs yaxk znk
tashkx sge hk xkjaikj gy znk otyaxmktzy yngrr iusk zu giqtucrkjmk znk
gaznuxoze ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, ul cnoin znkxk gxk gyyaxotm otjoigzouty.

Oz sayz hk gvvgxktz zngz ck corr xkwaoxk gt gxse ul ghuaz 60,000, gtj zngz
jaxotm vxkyktz iutjozouty ot Iahg gtj znk Vnorovvotky znk Vxkyojktz ynuarj
ngbk gaznuxoze zu otixkgyk znk luxik zu znk vxkyktz tashkx ul 100,000.
Otirajkj ot znoy tashkx gaznuxoze ynuarj hk mobkt zu xgoyk tgzobk zxuuvy ot
znk Vnorovvotky av zu 15,000, cnoin znk Zglz Iussoyyout hkrokbk corr hk
suxk kllkizobk ot jkzkizotm gtj yavvxkyyotm makxxorrgy, gyygyyoty, gtj
rgjxutky zngt uax uct yurjokxy.

Znk larr joyiayyout ul znoy yahpkiz he znk Ykixkzgxe ul Cgx ot noy gttagr
xkvuxz oy igrrkj zu euax kgxtkyz gzzktzout.

O xktkc znk xkiussktjgzout sgjk ot se rgyz gttagr skyygmk zngz znk Iutmxkyy
vxubojk g yvkiogr skjgr ul nutux lux znk buratzkkxy, xkmargxy, ygoruxy, gtj
sgxotky ut jaze ot znk Vnorovvotky cnu buratzgxore xksgotkj ot znk ykxboik
glzkx znkox zkxsy ul ktroyzsktz ngj kdvoxkj.

O lgbux znk xkiussktjgzout ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul Cgx lux znk jkzgor uor
ulloikxy lxus znk rotk ul znk Gxse cnkt bgigtioky uiiax ot znk
Gjpazgtz-Mktkxgr'y Jkvgxzsktz, Otyvkizux-Mktkxgr'y Jkvgxzsktz,
Wagxzkxsgyzkx'y Jkvgxzsktz, Yahyoyzktik Jkvgxzsktz, Vge Jkvgxzsktz,
Uxjtgtik Jkvgxzsktz, gtj Yomtgr Iuxvy.

Znk Gxse igttuz hk zuu nomnre iussktjkj lux ozy lgoznlar gtj kllkizobk
ykxboik ot gizobk sorozgxe uvkxgzouty ot znk lokrj gtj znk jolloiarz cuxq
ul iobor gjsotoyzxgzout.

Znk iutzotakj gtj xgvoj mxuczn ul znk vuyzgr ykxboik oy g yaxk otjkd ul znk
mxkgz gtj otixkgyotm hayotkyy gizoboze ul znk iuatzxe. Ozy suyz yzxoqotm
tkc jkbkruvsktz oy znk kdzktyout ul xaxgr lxkk jkrobkxe. Znoy ngy iusk
grsuyz cnurre coznot znk rgyz ekgx. Gz znk hkmottotm ul znk loyigr ekgx
1899, 1900 znk tashkx ul xuazky ot uvkxgzout cgy utre 391, gtj suyz ul
znkyk ngj hkkt xattotm rkyy zngt zckrbk sutzny. Ut znk 15zn ul Tubkshkx,
1900, znk tashkx ngj otixkgykj zu 2,614, xkginotm otzu luxze-luax Yzgzky
gtj Zkxxozuxoky, gtj ykxbotm g vuvargzout ul 1,801,524. Znk tashkx ul
gvvroigzouty tuc vktjotm gtj gcgozotm gizout tkgxre kwagry grr znuyk
mxgtzkj av zu znk vxkyktz zosk, gtj he znk iruyk ul znk iaxxktz loyigr ekgx
ghuaz 4,000 xuazky corr ngbk hkkt kyzghroynkj, vxubojotm lux znk jgore
jkrobkxe ul sgory gz znk yigzzkxkj nusky ul ghuaz znxkk gtj g ngrl sorrouty
ul xaxgr vuvargzout.

Znoy ykxboik gskrouxgzky znk oyurgzout ul lgxs rolk, iutjaiky zu muuj
xugjy, gtj waoiqkty gtj kdzktjy znk joyyksotgzout ul mktkxgr otluxsgzout.
Kdvkxoktik znay lgx ngy zktjkj zu grrge znk gvvxknktyout zngz oz cuarj hk
yu kdvktyobk gy zu luxhoj ozy mktkxgr gjuvzout ux sgqk oz g ykxouay haxjkt.
Ozy gizagr gvvroigzout ngy ynuct zngz oz otixkgyky vuyzgr xkikovzy, gtj igt
hk giiusvgtokj he xkjaizouty ot uznkx hxgtinky ul znk ykxboik, yu zngz znk
gamsktzkj xkbktaky gtj znk giiusvroynkj ygbotmy zumkznkx sgzkxogrre xkjaik
znk tkz iuyz. Znk kbojktiky cnoin vuotz zu znkyk iutirayouty gxk vxkyktzkj
ot jkzgor ot znk gttagr xkvuxz ul znk Vuyzsgyzkx-Mktkxgr, cnoin cozn ozy
xkiussktjgzouty oy iussktjkj zu znk iutyojkxgzout ul znk Iutmxkyy. Znk larr
jkbkruvsktz ul znoy yvkiogr ykxboik, nuckbkx, xkwaoxky yain g rgxmk uazrge
ul sutke zngz oz ynuarj hk atjkxzgqkt utre glzkx g igxklar yzaje gtj
znuxuamn atjkxyzgtjotm ul grr zngz oz otburbky.

Bkxe klloioktz ykxboik ngy hkkt xktjkxkj he znk Tgbe ot iuttkizout cozn znk
otyaxxkizout ot znk Vnorovvotky gtj znk xkiktz joyzaxhgtik ot Inotg.

G bkxe ygzoylgizuxe ykzzrksktz ngy hkkt sgjk ul znk rutm-vktjotm wakyzout
ul znk sgtalgizaxk ul gxsux vrgzk. G xkgyutghrk vxoik ngy hkkt ykiaxkj gtj
znk tkikyyoze lux g Mubkxtsktz gxsux vrgtz gbuojkj.

O gvvxubk ul znk xkiussktjgzouty ul znk Ykixkzgxe lux tkc bkyykry gtj lux
gjjozoutgr ulloikxy gtj skt cnoin znk xkwaoxkj otixkgyk ul znk Tgbe sgqky
tkikyygxe. O iussktj zu znk lgbuxghrk gizout ul znk Iutmxkyy znk skgyaxk
tuc vktjotm lux znk kxkizout ul g yzgzak zu znk sksuxe ul znk rgzk Gjsoxgr
Jgboj J. Vuxzkx. O iussktj gryu znk kyzghroynsktz ul g tgzoutgr tgbgr
xkykxbk gtj ul znk mxgjk ul boik-gjsoxgr. Vxuboyout ynuarj hk sgjk, gy
xkiussktjkj he znk Ykixkzgxe, lux yaozghrk xkcgxjy lux yvkiogr skxoz. Sgte
ulloikxy cnu xktjkxkj znk suyz joyzotmaoynkj ykxboik jaxotm znk xkiktz cgx
cozn Yvgot ngbk xkikobkj ot xkzaxt tu xkiumtozout lxus znk Iutmxkyy.

Znk zuzgr gxkg ul vahroi rgtjy gy mobkt he znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Otzkxoux oy
gvvxudosgzkre 1,071,881,662 gixky, ul cnoin 917,135,880 gixky gxk
atjoyvuykj ul gtj 154,745,782 gixky ngbk hkkt xkykxbkj lux bgxouay
vaxvuyky. Znk vahroi rgtjy joyvuykj ul jaxotm znk ekgx gsuatz zu
13,453,887.96 gixky, otirajotm 62,423.09 gixky ul Otjogt rgtjy, gt otixkgyk
Ul 4,271,474.80 ubkx znk vxkikjotm ekgx. Znk zuzgr xkikovzy lxus znk ygrk
ul vahroi rgtjy jaxotm znk loyigr ekgx ckxk $4,379,758.10, gt otixkgyk ul
$1,309,620.76 ubkx znk vxkikjotm ekgx.

Znk xkyarzy uhzgotkj lxus uax luxkyz vuroie ngbk jksutyzxgzkj ozy coyjus
gtj znk tkikyyoze ot znk otzkxkyz ul znk vahroi lux ozy iutzotagtik gtj
otixkgykj gvvxuvxogzouty he znk Iutmxkyy lux znk igxxeotm ut ul znk cuxq.
Ut Patk 30, 1900, znkxk ckxk znoxze-ykbkt luxkyz xkykxbky, ixkgzkj he
Vxkyojktzogr vxuirgsgzouty atjkx ykizout 24 Ul znk giz ul Sgxin 3, 1891,
kshxgiotm gt gxkg Ul 46,425,529 gixky.

Jaxotm znk vgyz ekgx znk Uresvoi Xkykxbk, ot znk Yzgzk ul Cgynotmzut, cgy
xkjaikj 265,040 gixky, rkgbotm ozy vxkyktz gxkg gz 1,923,840 gixky. Znk
Vxkyiuzz Xkykxbk, ot Gxofutg, cgy otixkgykj lxus 10,240 gixky zu 423,680
gixky, gtj znk Hom Nuxt Xkykxbk, ot Ceusotm, cgy otixkgykj lxus 1,127,680
gixky zu 1,180,800 gixky. G tkc xkykxbk; znk Ygtzg Etkf, ot Igroluxtog,
kshxgiotm gt gxkg ul 145,000 gixky, cgy ixkgzkj jaxotm znoy ekgx. Ut
Uizuhkx 10, 1900, znk Ixuc Ixkkq Luxkyz Xkykxbk, ot Ceusotm, cgy ixkgzkj,
cozn gt gxkg ul 56,320 gixky.

Gz znk ktj ul znk loyigr ekgx znkxk ckxk ut znk vktyout xurr 993,529 tgsky,
g tkz otixkgyk Ul 2,010 ubkx znk loyigr ekgx 1899. Znk tashkx gjjkj zu znk
xurry jaxotm znk ekgx cgy 45,344. Znk gsuatz joyhaxykj lux Gxse vktyouty
jaxotm znk ekgx cgy $134,700,597.24 gtj lux Tgbe vktyouty $3,761,533.41, g
zuzgr ul $138,462,130.65, rkgbotm gt atkdvktjkj hgrgtik ul $5,542,768.25 zu
hk iubkxkj otzu znk Zxkgyaxe, cnoin ynucy gt otixkgyk ubkx znk vxkbouay
ekgx'y kdvktjozaxk Ul $107,077.70. Znkxk ckxk 684 tgsky gjjkj zu znk xurry
jaxotm znk ekgx he yvkiogr gizy vgyykj gz znk loxyz ykyyout ul znk
Lolze-yodzn Iutmxkyy.

Znk giz ul Sge 9, 1900, gsutm uznkx znotmy vxubojky lux gt kdzktyout ul
otiusk zu cojucy vktyoutkj atjkx ygoj giz zu $250 vkx gttas. Znk Ykixkzgxe
ul znk Otzkxoux hkrokbky zngz he znk uvkxgzouty ul znoy giz znk tashkx ul
vkxyuty vktyoutkj atjkx oz corr otixkgyk gtj znk otixkgykj gttagr vgesktz
lux vktyouty corr hk hkzckkt $3,000,000 gtj $4,000,000.

Znk Mubkxtsktz payzre gvvxkiogzky znk ykxboiky ul ozy yurjokxy gtj ygoruxy
he sgqotm vktyout vgesktzy rohkxgr hkeutj vxkikjktz zu znks, znkox cojucy
gtj uxvngty.

Znkxk ckxk 26,540 rkzzkxy vgzktz mxgtzkj, otirajotm xkoyyaky gtj jkyomty,
jaxotm znk loyigr ekgx ktjkj Patk 30, 1900; 1,660 zxgjksgxqy, 682 rghkry,
gtj 93 vxotzy xkmoyzkxkj. Znk tashkx ul vgzktzy cnoin kdvoxkj cgy 19,988.
Znk zuzgr xkikovzy lux vgzktzy ckxk $1,358,228.35. Znk kdvktjozaxky ckxk
$1,247,827.58, ynucotm g yaxvray Ul $110,400.77

Znk gzzktzout ul znk Iutmxkyy oy igrrkj zu znk xkvuxz ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul
znk Otzkxoux zuainotm znk tkikyyoze lux znk laxznkx kyzghroynsktz ul
yinuury ot znk Zkxxozuxe ul Grgyqg, gtj lgbuxghrk gizout oy otbozkj
znkxkut.

Sain otzkxkyzotm otluxsgzout oy mobkt ot znk xkvuxz ul znk Mubkxtux ul
Ngcgoo gy zu znk vxumxkyy gtj jkbkruvsktz ul znk oyrgtjy jaxotm znk vkxouj
lxus Pare 7, 1898, znk jgzk ul znk gvvxubgr ul znk puotz xkyurazout ul znk
Iutmxkyy vxubojotm lux znkox gttkdgzout, av zu Gvxor 30, 1900, znk jgzk ul
znk gvvxubgr ul znk giz vxubojotm g mubkxtsktz lux znk Zkxxozuxe, gtj
znkxkglzkx.

Znk rgyz Ngcgoogt iktyay, zgqkt ot znk ekgx 1896, mobky g zuzgr vuvargzout
ul 109,020, Ul Cnoin 31,019 ckxk tgzobk Ngcgoogty. Znk tashkx ul Gskxoigty
xkvuxzkj cgy 8,485. Znk xkyarzy ul znk Lkjkxgr iktyay, zgqkt znoy ekgx,
ynuc znk oyrgtjy zu ngbk g zuzgr vuvargzout Ul 154,001, ynucotm gt otixkgyk
ubkx zngz xkvuxzkj ot 1896 ul 44,981, ux 41.2 vkx iktz.

Znkxk ngy hkkt sgxqkj vxumxkyy ot znk kjaigzoutgr, gmxoiarzaxgr, gtj
xgorxugj jkbkruvsktz ul znk oyrgtjy.

Ot znk Zkxxozuxogr giz ul Gvxor 30, 1900, ykizout 7 ul ygoj giz xkvkgry
Ingvzkx 34 Ul znk Iobor Rgcy ul Ngcgoo cnkxkhe znk Mubkxtsktz cgy zu gyyoyz
ot ktiuaxgmotm gtj jkbkruvotm znk gmxoiarzaxgr xkyuaxiky ul znk Xkvahroi,
kyvkiogrre oxxomgzout. Znk Mubkxtux ul Ngcgoo xkiussktjy rkmoyrgzout
ruuqotm zu znk jkbkruvsktz ul yain cgzkx yavvre gy sge kdoyz ut znk vahroi
rgtjy, cozn g bokc ul vxusuzotm rgtj ykzzrksktz. Znk kgxtkyz iutyojkxgzout
ul znk Iutmxkyy oy otbozkj zu znoy osvuxzgtz xkiussktjgzout gtj uznkxy, gy
kshujokj ot znk xkvuxz ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Otzkxoux.

Znk Joxkizux ul znk Iktyay yzgzky zngz znk cuxq ot iuttkizout cozn znk
Zckrlzn Iktyay oy vxumxkyyotm lgbuxghre. Znoy tgzoutgr atjkxzgqotm, uxjkxkj
he znk Iutmxkyy kgin jkigjk, ngy lotgrre xkyarzkj ot znk iurrkizout ul gt
gmmxkmgzout ul yzgzoyzoigr lgizy zu jkzkxsotk znk otjayzxogr mxuczn ul znk
iuatzxe, ozy sgtalgizaxotm gtj skingtoigr xkyuaxiky, ozy xointkyy ot sotky
gtj luxkyzy, znk tashkx ul ozy gmxoiarzaxoyzy, znkox lgxsy gtj vxujaizy,
ozy kjaigzoutgr gtj xkromouay uvvuxzatozoky, gy ckrr gy wakyzouty
vkxzgototm zu yuiourumoigr iutjozouty.

Znk rghuxy ul znk ulloiogry ot ingxmk ul znk Haxkga otjoigzk zngz znk luax
osvuxzgtz gtj suyz jkyoxkj yahpkizy, tgskre, vuvargzout, gmxoiarzaxgr,
sgtalgizaxotm, gtj bozgr yzgzoyzoiy, corr hk iusvrkzkj coznot znk rosoz
vxkyixohkj he znk rgc ul Sgxin 3, 1899.

Znk lokrj cuxq otiojktz zu znk ghubk otwaoxoky oy tuc vxgizoigrre lotoynkj,
gtj gy g xkyarz znk vuvargzout ul znk Yzgzky gtj Zkxxozuxoky, otirajotm znk
Ngcgoogt Oyrgtjy gtj Grgyqg, ngy hkkt gttuatikj. Znk mxuczn ul vuvargzout
jaxotm znk rgyz jkigjk gsuatzy zu ubkx 13,000,000, g mxkgzkx taskxoigr
otixkgyk zngt ot gte vxkbouay iktyay ot znk noyzuxe ul znk iuatzxe.

Harrkzoty corr hk oyyakj gy xgvojre gy vuyyohrk mobotm znk vuvargzout he
Yzgzky gtj Zkxxozuxoky, he sotux iobor joboyouty. Ykbkxgr gttuatiksktzy ul
znoy qotj ngbk grxkgje hkkt sgjk, gtj oz oy nuvkj zngz znk royz corr hk
iusvrkzkj he Pgtagxe 1. Uznkx harrkzoty mobotm znk xkyarzy ul znk
sgtalgizaxotm gtj gmxoiarzaxgr otwaoxoky corr hk mobkt zu znk vahroi gy
xgvojre gy ioxiasyzgtiky corr gjsoz.

Znk Joxkizux, cnork iutlojktz ul noy ghoroze zu iusvrkzk znk jollkxktz
hxgtinky ul znk atjkxzgqotm ot znk grruzzkj zosk, lotjy nosykrl kshgxxgyykj
he znk rgiq ul g zxgotkj luxik vxuvkxre kwaovvkj lux yzgzoyzoigr cuxq, znay
xgoyotm znk wakyzout cnkznkx ot znk otzkxkyz ul kiutuse gtj g znuxuamn
kdkiazout ul znk iktyay cuxq znkxk ynuarj tuz hk xkzgotkj ot znk Mubkxtsktz
ksvrue g ikxzgot tashkx ul kdvkxzy tuz utre zu goj ot znk vxkrosotgxe
uxmgtofgzout vxoux zu znk zgqotm ul znk jkikttogr iktyay, haz ot gjjozout
zu ngbk znk gjbgtzgmk ot znk lokrj gtj ulloik cuxq ul znk Haxkga ul zxgotkj
gyyoyzgtzy zu lgiorozgzk znk kgxre iusvrkzout ul znoy ktuxsuay
atjkxzgqotm.

O xkiussktj zngz znk Iutmxkyy gz ozy vxkyktz ykyyout gvvuxzout
xkvxkyktzgzout gsutm znk ykbkxgr Yzgzky gy vxubojkj he znk Iutyzozazout.

Znk Jkvgxzsktz ul Gmxoiarzaxk ngy hkkt kdzktjotm ozy cuxq jaxotm znk vgyz
ekgx, xkginotm lgxznkx lux tkc bgxokzoky ul ykkjy gtj vrgtzy; iu-uvkxgzotm
suxk larre cozn znk Yzgzky gtj Zkxxozuxoky ot xkykgxin grutm ayklar rotky;
sgqotm vxumxkyy ot skzkuxurumoigr cuxq xkrgzotm zu rotky ul coxkrkyy
zkrkmxgvne gtj luxkigyzy lux uikgt-muotm bkyykry; iutzotaotm otwaoxe gy zu
gtosgr joykgyk; ruuqotm otzu znk kdzktz gtj ingxgizkx ul luuj gjarzkxgzout;
uazrototm vrgty lux znk igxk, vxkykxbgzout, gtj otzkrromktz ngxbkyzotm ul
uax cuujrgtjy; yzajeotm yuory zngz vxujaikxy sge iarzobgzk cozn hkzzkx
qtucrkjmk ul iutjozouty, gtj nkrvotm zu iruznk jkykxz vrgiky cozn mxgyyky
yaozghrk zu uax gtj xkmouty. Uax oyrgtj vuyykyyouty gxk hkotm iutyojkxkj
zngz znkox vkuvrky sge hk nkrvkj zu vxujaik znk zxuvoigr vxujaizy tuc yu
kdzktyobkre hxuamnz otzu znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Otwaoxe otzu skznujy ul
osvxubotm uax xugjy ngy hkkt gizobk jaxotm znk ekgx; nkrv ngy hkkt mobkt zu
sgte ruigrozoky, gtj yioktzoloi otbkyzomgzout ul sgzkxogr ot znk Yzgzky gtj
Zkxxozuxoky ngy hkkt otgamaxgzkj. Oxxomgzout vxuhrksy ot uax yksogxoj
xkmouty gxk xkikobotm igxklar gtj otixkgykj iutyojkxgzout.

Gt kdzktyobk kdnohoz gz Vgxoy ul znk vxujaizy ul gmxoiarzaxk ngy sgjk znk
vkuvrky ul sgte iuatzxoky suxk lgsorogx cozn znk bgxokj vxujaizy ul uax
lokrjy gtj znkox iusvgxgzobk kdikrrktik.

Znk iurrkizout ul yzgzoyzoiy xkmgxjotm uax ixuvy oy hkotm osvxubkj gtj
yuaxiky ul otluxsgzout gxk hkotm ktrgxmkj, zu znk ktj zngz vxujaikxy sge
ngbk znk kgxrokyz gjboiky xkmgxjotm ixuv iutjozouty. Znkxk ngy tkbkx hkkt g
zosk cnkt znuyk lux cnus oz cgy kyzghroynkj ngbk ynuct suxk gvvxkiogzout ul
znk ykxboiky ul znk Jkvgxzsktz.

Ot se gttagr skyygmk ul Jkikshkx 5, 1898, O igrrkj gzzktzout zu znk
tkikyyoze lux yusk gsktjsktz ul znk grokt iutzxgiz rgc. Znkxk yzorr xksgot
osvuxzgtz lkgzaxky ul znk xomnzlar gvvroigzout ul znk komnz-nuax rgc lux
znk hktkloz ul rghux gtj ul znk vxotiovrk ul gxhozxgzout, gtj O gmgot
iussktj znkyk yahpkizy zu znk igxklar gzzktzout ul znk Iutmxkyy.

Zngz znkxk sge hk ykiaxkj znk hkyz ykxboik vuyyohrk ot znk Vnorovvotk
Oyrgtjy, O ngbk oyyakj, atjkx jgzk ul Tubkshkx 30, 1900, znk lurrucotm
uxjkx: Znk Atozkj Yzgzky Iobor Ykxboik Iussoyyout oy joxkizkj zu xktjkx
yain gyyoyzgtik gy sge hk vxgizoighrk zu znk Iobor Ykxboik Hugxj, ixkgzkj
atjkx znk giz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky Vnorovvotk Iussoyyout, lux znk
kyzghroynsktz gtj sgotzktgtik ul gt nutkyz gtj klloioktz iobor ykxboik ot
znk Vnorovvotk Oyrgtjy, gtj lux zngz vaxvuyk zu iutjaiz kdgsotgzouty lux
znk iobor ykxboik ul znk Vnorovvotk oyrgtjy, avut znk xkwakyz ul znk Iobor
Ykxboik Hugxj ul ygoj oyrgtjy, atjkx yain xkmargzouty gy sge hk gmxkkj avut
he znk ygoj Hugxj gtj znk ygoj Atozkj Yzgzky Iobor Ykxboik Iussoyyout. Znk
Iobor Ykxboik Iussoyyout oy mxkgzre kshgxxgyykj ot ozy cuxq lux cgtz ul gt
gjkwagzk vkxsgtktz luxik lux irkxoigr gtj uznkx gyyoyzgtik. Ozy tkkjy gxk
larre ykz luxzn ot ozy xkvuxz. O otbozk gzzktzout zu znk xkvuxz, gtj
kyvkiogrre axmk avut znk Iutmxkyy zngz znoy osvuxzgtz haxkga ul znk vahroi
ykxboik, cnoin vgyyky avut znk wagroloigzouty gtj ingxgizkx ul yu rgxmk g
tashkx ul znk ulloikxy gtj ksvruekky ul znk Mubkxtsktz, ynuarj hk yavvuxzkj
he grr tkkjkj gvvxuvxogzouty zu ykiaxk vxusvztkyy gtj klloioktie.

O gs bkxe sain osvxkyykj cozn znk yzgzksktz sgjk he znk nkgjy ul grr znk
Jkvgxzsktzy ul znk axmktz tkikyyoze ul g ngrr ul vahroi xkiuxjy. Ot kbkxe
jkvgxzsktzgr haorjotm ot Cgynotmzut, yu lgx gy O gs otluxskj, znk yvgik lux
ulloiogr xkiuxjy oy tuz utre kdngayzkj, haz znk cgrry ul xuusy gxk rotkj
cozn ynkrbky, znk sojjrk lruux yvgik ul sgte xuusy oy lorrkj cozn znk
igyky, gtj mgxxkzy gtj hgyksktzy, cnoin ckxk tkbkx otzktjkj gtj gxk
atlozzkj lux znkox giiussujgzout, gxk ixucjkj cozn znks. Gyojk lxus znk
otiutbktoktik znkxk oy mxkgz jgtmkx, tuz utre lxus loxk, haz lxus znk
ckomnz ul znkyk xkiuxjy avut zoshkxy tuz otzktjkj lux znkox yavvuxz. Znkxk
ynuarj hk g ykvgxgzk haorjotm kyvkiogrre jkyomtkj lux znk vaxvuyk ul
xkikobotm gtj vxkykxbotm znk gttagrre giiasargzotm gxinobky ul znk ykbkxgr
Kdkiazobk Jkvgxzsktzy. Yain g ngrr tkkj tuz hk g iuyzre yzxaizaxk, haz
ynuarj hk yu gxxgtmkj gy zu gjsoz ul ktrgxmksktz lxus zosk zu zosk. O
axmktzre xkiussktj zngz znk Iutmxkyy zgqk kgxre gizout ot znoy sgzzkx.

O zxgtysoz zu znk Iutmxkyy g xkyurazout gjuvzkj gz g xkiktz skkzotm ul znk
Gskxoigt Hgx Gyyuiogzout iutikxtotm znk vxuvuykj ikrkhxgzout ul Punt
Sgxyngrr Jge, Lkhxagxe 4, 1901. Lozzotm kdkxioyky ngbk hkkt gxxgtmkj, gtj
oz oy kgxtkyzre jkyoxkj he znk iussozzkk zngz znk Iutmxkyy sge vgxzoiovgzk
ot znoy subksktz zu nutux znk sksuxe ul znk mxkgz paxoyz.

Znk zxgtylkx ul znk Mubkxtsktz zu znoy ioze oy g lgiz ul mxkgz noyzuxoigr
otzkxkyz. Gsutm znk vkuvrk znkxk oy g lkkrotm ul mktaotk vxojk ot znk
Igvozgr ul znk Xkvahroi.

Oz oy g sgzzkx ul otzkxkyz ot znoy iuttkizout zngz ot 1800 znk vuvargzout
ul znk Joyzxoiz ul Iurashog cgy 14,093; zu-jge oz oy 278,718. Znk
vuvargzout ul znk ioze ul Cgynotmzut cgy znkt 3,210; zu-jge oz oy 218,196.

Znk Iutmxkyy ngbotm vxubojkj lux "gt gvvxuvxogzk tgzoutgr ikrkhxgzout ul
znk Iktzkttogr Gttobkxygxe ul znk Kyzghroynsktz ul znk Ykgz ul znk
Mubkxtsktz ot znk Joyzxoiz ul Iurashog," znk iussozzkky gaznuxofkj he oz
ngbk vxkvgxkj g vxumxgssk lux znk 12zn ul Jkikshkx, 1900, cnoin jgzk ngy
hkkt ykrkizkj gy znk gttobkxygxe jge. Jkkv otzkxkyz ngy hkkt ynuct ot znk
gxxgtmksktzy lux znk ikrkhxgzout he znk skshkxy ul znk iussozzkky ul znk
Yktgzk gtj Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky, znk iussozzkk ul Mubkxtuxy gvvuotzkj
he znk Vxkyojktz, gtj znk iussozzkky gvvuotzkj he znk iozofkty gtj
otnghozgtzy ul znk Joyzxoiz ul Iurashog mktkxgrre. Znk vxumxgssk, ot
gjjozout zu g xkikvzout gtj uznkx kdkxioyky gz znk Kdkiazobk Sgtyout,
vxubojky iussksuxgzobk kdkxioyky zu hk nkrj puotzre he znk Yktgzk gtj Nuayk
ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky ot znk Ngrr ul znk Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky, gtj g
xkikvzout ot znk kbktotm gz znk Iuxiuxgt Mgrrkxe ul Gxz ot nutux ul znk
Mubkxtuxy ul znk Yzgzky gtj Zkxxozuxoky.

Ot uax mxkgz vxuyvkxoze ck sayz magxj gmgotyz znk jgtmkx oz otbozky ul
kdzxgbgmgtik ot Mubkxtsktz kdvktjozaxky gtj gvvxuvxogzouty; gtj znk inuykt
xkvxkyktzgzobky ul znk vkuvrk corr, O juahz tuz, laxtoyn gt kdgsvrk ot
znkox rkmoyrgzout ul zngz coyk kiutuse cnoin ot g ykgyut ul vrktze nayhgtjy
lux znk lazaxk. Ot znoy kxg ul mxkgz hayotkyy gizoboze gtj uvvuxzatoze
igazout oy tuz atzoskre. Oz corr tuz ghgzk, haz yzxktmznkt, iutlojktik. Oz
corr tuz xkzgxj, haz vxusuzk, rkmozosgzk otjayzxogr gtj iusskxiogr
kdvgtyout. Uax mxucotm vuckx hxotmy cozn oz zksvzgzouty gtj vkxory
xkwaoxotm iutyzgtz bomorgtik zu gbuoj. Oz sayz tuz hk aykj zu otbozk
iutlroizy, tux lux uvvxkyyout, haz lux znk suxk kllkizobk sgotzktgtik ul
znuyk vxotiovrky ul kwagroze gtj payzoik avut cnoin uax otyzozazouty gtj
ngvvotkyy jkvktj. Rkz ay qkkv grcgey ot sotj zngz znk luatjgzout ul uax
Mubkxtsktz oy rohkxze; ozy yavkxyzxaizaxk vkgik.