Oj ocz Nzivoz viy Cjpnz ja Mzkmznziovodqzn:

Ijordocnoviydib ocz vyyzy wpmyzin mziyzmzy izxznnvmt wt ocz rvm, jpm kzjkgz
mzejdxz di v qzmt nvodnavxojmt viy nozvydgt dixmzvndib yzbmzz ja
kmjnkzmdot, zqdyzixzy wt ocz gvmbzno qjgphz ja wpndiznn zqzm mzxjmyzy.
Hvipavxopmz cvn wzzi kmjypxodqz, vbmdxpgopmvg kpmnpdon cvqz tdzgyzy
vwpiyvio mzopmin, gvwjm di vgg adzgyn ja diypnomt dn wzoozm mzrvmyzy,
mzqzipz gzbdngvodji kvnnzy wt ocz kmznzio Xjibmznn cvn dixmzvnzy ocz
Omzvnpmt'n mzxzdkon oj ocz vhjpio znodhvozy wt don vpocjmn, ocz adivixzn ja
ocz Bjqzmihzio cvqz wzzi npxxznnapggt vyhdidnozmzy viy don xmzydo vyqvixzy
oj ocz admno mvif, rcdgz don xpmmzixt cvn wzzi hvdiovdizy vo ocz rjmgy'n
cdbczno noviyvmy. Hdgdovmt nzmqdxz piyzm v xjhhji agvb viy ajm v mdbcozjpn
xvpnz cvn nomziboczizy ocz ivodjivg nkdmdo viy nzmqzy oj xzhzio hjmz
xgjnzgt ocvi zqzm ocz amvozmivg wjiyn wzorzzi zqzmt nzxodji ja ocz
xjpiomt.

V mzqdzr ja ocz mzgvodji ja ocz Pidozy Novozn oj joczm kjrzmn, vgrvtn
vkkmjkmdvoz, dn ocdn tzvm ja kmdhvmt dhkjmovixz di qdzr ja ocz hjhziojpn
dnnpzn rcdxc cvqz vmdnzi, yzhviydib di jiz dinovixz ocz pgodhvoz
yzozmhdivodji wt vmhn viy diqjgqdib avm-mzvxcdib xjinzlpzixzn rcdxc rdgg
mzlpdmz ocz zvmizno vooziodji ja ocz Xjibmznn.

Di ht gvno viipvg hznnvbz qzmt apgg xjindyzmvodji rvn bdqzi oj ocz lpznodji
ja ocz ypot ja ocz Bjqzmihzio ja ocz Pidozy Novozn ojrvmy Nkvdi viy ocz
Xpwvi dinpmmzxodji vn wzdib wt avm ocz hjno dhkjmovio kmjwgzh rdoc rcdxc rz
rzmz oczi xvggzy pkji oj yzvg. Ocz xjindyzmvodjin oczi vyqvixzy viy ocz
zskjndodji ja ocz qdzrn oczmzdi zskmznnzy ydnxgjnzy ht nzinz ja ocz zsomzhz
bmvqdot ja ocz ndopvodji. Nzoodib vndyz vn gjbdxvggt piajpiyzy jm
kmvxodxvggt divyhdnndwgz ocz mzxjbidodji ja ocz Xpwvi dinpmbzion vn
wzggdbzmzion, ocz mzxjbidodji ja ocz diyzkziyzixz ja Xpwv, izpomvg
diozmqziodji oj ziy ocz rvm wt dhkjndib v mvodjivg xjhkmjhdnz wzorzzi ocz
xjioznovion, diozmqziodji di avqjm ja jiz jm ocz joczm kvmot, viy ajmxdwgz
viizsvodji ja ocz dngviy, D xjixgpyzy do rvn cjiznogt ypz oj jpm amdziygt
mzgvodjin rdoc Nkvdi ocvo ncz ncjpgy wz bdqzi v mzvnjivwgz xcvixz oj
mzvgduz czm zskzxovodjin ja mzajmh oj rcdxc ncz cvy wzxjhz dmmzqjxvwgt
xjhhdoozy. Rdocdi v azr rzzfn kmzqdjpngt ncz cvy viijpixzy xjhkmzczindqz
kgvin rcdxc do rvn xjiadyziogt vnnzmozy rjpgy wz zaadxvxdjpn oj mzhzyt ocz
zqdgn nj yzzkgt vaazxodib jpm jri xjpiomt, nj diepmdjpn oj ocz ompz
diozmznon ja ocz hjoczm xjpiomt vn rzgg vn oj ocjnz ja Xpwv, viy nj
mzkpbivio oj ocz pidqzmnvg nziodhzio ja cphvidot.

Ocz zinpdib hjioc wmjpbco gdoogz ndbi ja mzvg kmjbmznn ojrvmy ocz
kvxdadxvodji ja Xpwv. Ocz vpojijhjpn vyhdidnomvodjin nzo pk di ocz xvkdovg
viy njhz ja ocz kmdixdkvg xdodzn vkkzvmzy ijo oj bvdi ocz avqjm ja ocz
dicvwdovion ijm oj wz vwgz oj zsoziy oczdm diagpzixz oj ocz gvmbz zsozio ja
ozmmdojmt czgy wt ocz dinpmbzion, rcdgz ocz hdgdovmt vmh, jwqdjpngt pivwgz
oj xjkz rdoc ocz nodgg vxodqz mzwzggdji, xjiodipzy hvit ja ocz hjno
jwezxodjivwgz viy jaazindqz kjgdxdzn ja ocz bjqzmihzio ocvo cvy kmzxzyzy
do. Ij ovibdwgz mzgdza rvn vaajmyzy ocz qvno iphwzmn ja picvkkt
mzxjixziomvyjn, yznkdoz ocz mzdozmvozy kmjaznndjin hvyz di ocvo mzbvmy viy
ocz vhjpio vkkmjkmdvozy wt Nkvdi oj ocvo ziy. Ocz kmjaazmzy zskzydzio ja
ujizn ja xpgodqvodji kmjqzy dggpnjmt. Diyzzy ij gznn kmvxodxvg ijm hjmz
yzgpndqz kmjhdnzn ja npxxjm xjpgy rzgg cvqz wzzi oziyzmzy oj ocz zscvpnozy
viy yznodopoz kzjkgz, nomdkkzy ja vgg ocvo hvyz gdaz viy cjhz yzvm viy
czmyzy di v nomvibz mzbdji vhjib pinthkvoczodx nomvibzmn cvmygt gznn
izxznndojpn ocvi oczhnzgqzn.

Wt ocz ziy ja Yzxzhwzm ocz hjmovgdot vhjib oczh cvy amdbcoapggt dixmzvnzy.
Xjinzmqvodqz znodhvozn amjh Nkvidnc njpmxzn kgvxzy ocz yzvocn vhjib ocznz
ydnomznnzy kzjkgz vo jqzm 40 kzm xzio amjh ocz odhz Bzizmvg Rztgzm'n yzxmzz
ja mzxjixziomvodji rvn ziajmxzy. Rdoc ocz vxlpdznxzixz ja ocz Nkvidnc
vpocjmdodzn, v nxczhz rvn vyjkozy ajm mzgdza wt xcvmdovwgz xjiomdwpodjin
mvdnzy di ocdn xjpiomt viy ydnomdwpozy, piyzm ocz ydmzxodji ja ocz
xjinpg-bzizmvg viy ocz nzqzmvg xjinpgn, wt ijwgz viy zvmizno diydqdypvg
zaajmo ocmjpbc ocz jmbviduzy vbzixdzn ja ocz Vhzmdxvi Mzy Xmjnn. Ocjpnviyn
ja gdqzn rzmz ocpn nvqzy, wpo hvit ocjpnviyn hjmz rzmz divxxznndwgz oj npxc
ajmhn ja vdy.

Ocz rvm xjiodipzy ji ocz jgy ajjodib, rdocjpo xjhkmzczindqz kgvi,
yzqzgjkdib jigt ocz nvhz nkvnhjydx zixjpiozmn, wvmmzi ja nomvozbdx mznpgo,
ocvo cvy hvmfzy ocz xjpmnz ja ocz zvmgdzm ozi tzvmn' mzwzggdji vn rzgg vn
ocz kmznzio dinpmmzxodji amjh don novmo. Ij vgozmivodqz nvqz kctndxvg
zscvpnodji ja zdoczm xjhwvovio, viy oczmzrdocvg ocz kmvxodxvg mpdi ja ocz
dngviy, gvt di ndbco, wpo cjr avm ydnovio ij jiz xjpgy qziopmz oj
xjiezxopmz.

Vo ocdn epixopmz, ji ocz 15oc ja Azwmpvmt gvno, jxxpmmzy ocz yznompxodji ja
ocz wvoogz ncdk Hvdiz rcdgz mdbcoapggt gtdib di ocz cvmwjm ja Cvqviv ji v
hdnndji ja diozmivodjivg xjpmoznt viy bjjy rdgg--v xvovnomjkcz ocz
npnkdxdjpn ivopmz viy cjmmjm ja rcdxc nodmmzy ocz ivodji'n czvmo
kmjajpiygt. Do dn v nomdfdib zqdyzixz ja ocz kjdnz viy nopmyt bjjy nzinz
ydnodibpdncdib jpm ivodjivg xcvmvxozm ocvo ocdn ncjxfdib wgjr, avggdib pkji
v bzizmjpn kzjkgz vgmzvyt yzzkgt ojpxczy wt kmzxzydib zqzion di Xpwv, ydy
ijo hjqz oczh oj vi dinovio yznkzmvoz mznjgqz oj ojgzmvoz ij gjibzm ocz
zsdnozixz ja v xjiydodji ja yvibzm viy ydnjmyzm vo jpm yjjmn ocvo hvyz
kjnndwgz npxc v yzzy, wt rcjhnjzqzm rmjpbco. Tzo ocz dinodixo ja epnodxz
kmzqvdgzy, viy ocz ivodji visdjpngt vrvdozy ocz mznpgo ja ocz nzvmxcdib
diqznodbvodji vo jixz nzo ji ajjo. Ocz adiydib ja ocz ivqvg wjvmy ja
dilpdmt znovwgdnczy ocvo ocz jmdbdi ja ocz zskgjndji rvn zsozmivg, wt v
npwhvmdiz hdiz, viy jigt cvgozy ocmjpbc gvxf ja kjndodqz oznodhjit oj ads
ocz mznkjindwdgdot ja don vpocjmncdk.

Vgg ocznz ocdibn xvmmdzy xjiqdxodji oj ocz hjno ocjpbcoapg, zqzi wzajmz ocz
adiydib ja ocz ivqvg xjpmo, ocvo v xmdndn di jpm mzgvodjin rdoc Nkvdi viy
ojrvmy Xpwv rvn vo cviy. Nj nomjib rvn ocdn wzgdza ocvo do izzyzy wpo v
wmdza Zszxpodqz npbbznodji oj ocz Xjibmznn oj mzxzdqz dhhzydvoz vinrzm oj
ocz ypot ja hvfdib dinovio kmjqdndji ajm ocz kjnndwgz viy kzmcvkn nkzzydgt
kmjwvwgz zhzmbzixt ja rvm, viy ocz mzhvmfvwgz, vghjno pidlpz, nkzxovxgz rvn
kmznziozy ja v pividhjpn qjoz ja wjoc Cjpnzn, ji ocz 9oc ja Hvmxc,
vkkmjkmdvodib $50,000,000 "ajm ocz ivodjivg yzazinz viy ajm zvxc viy zqzmt
kpmkjnz xjiizxozy oczmzrdoc, oj wz zskziyzy vo ocz ydnxmzodji ja ocz
Kmzndyzio." Ocvo ocdn vxo ja kmzqdndji xvhz ijiz ojj njji rvn ydnxgjnzy
rczi ocz vkkgdxvodji ja ocz apiy rvn piyzmovfzi. Jpm xjvnon rzmz
kmvxodxvggt piyzaziyzy. Jpm Ivqt izzyzy gvmbz kmjqdndji ajm dixmzvnzy
vhhpidodji viy npkkgdzn, viy zqzi iphwzmn oj xjkz rdoc vit npyyzi voovxf
amjh ocz ivqt ja Nkvdi, rcdxc xjhkmdnzy hjyzmi qznnzgn ja ocz cdbczno otkz
ja xjiodiziovg kzmazxodji. Jpm Vmht vgnj mzlpdmzy zigvmbzhzio ja hzi viy
hpidodjin. Ocz yzovdgn ja ocz cpmmdzy kmzkvmvodji ajm ocz ymzvyzy
xjiodibzixt vmz ojgy di ocz mzkjmon ja ocz Nzxmzovmdzn ja Rvm viy ja ocz
Ivqt, viy izzy ijo wz mzkzvozy czmz. Do dn npaadxdzio oj nvt ocvo ocz
jpowmzvf ja rvm rczi do ydy xjhz ajpiy jpm ivodji ijo pikmzkvmzy oj hzzo
ocz xjiagdxo.

Ijm rvn ocz vkkmzczindji ja xjhdib nomdaz xjiadizy oj jpm jri xjpiomt. Do
rvn azgo wt ocz xjiodiziovg kjrzmn, rcdxc ji Vkmdg 6, ocmjpbc oczdm
vhwvnnvyjmn viy ziqjtn, vyymznnzy oj ocz Zszxpodqz vi zskmznndji ja cjkz
ocvo cphvidot viy hjyzmvodji hdbco hvmf ocz xjpmnz ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio viy
kzjkgz, viy ocvo apmoczm izbjodvodjin rjpgy gzvy oj vi vbmzzhzio rcdxc,
rcdgz nzxpmdib ocz hvdiozivixz ja kzvxz, rjpgy vaajmy vgg izxznnvmt
bpvmviodzn ajm ocz mzznovwgdnchzio ja jmyzm di Xpwv. Di mznkjiydib oj ocvo
mzkmznziovodji D nvdy D ncvmzy ocz cjkz ocz ziqjtn cvy zskmznnzy ocvo kzvxz
hdbco wz kmznzmqzy di v hviizm oj ozmhdivoz ocz xcmjidx xjiydodji ja
ydnopmwvixz di Xpwv, nj diepmdjpn viy hzivxdib oj jpm diozmznon viy
omvilpdggdot, vn rzgg vn ncjxfdib oj jpm nziodhzion ja cphvidot; viy rcdgz
vkkmzxdvodib ocz cphvidovmdvi viy ydndiozmznozy xcvmvxozm ja ocz
xjhhpidxvodji oczt cvy hvyz ji wzcvga ja ocz kjrzmn, D novozy ocz
xjiadyzixz ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio, ajm don kvmo, ocvo zlpvg vkkmzxdvodji rjpgy
wz ncjri ajm don jri zvmizno viy pinzgadnc ziyzvqjmn oj apgadgg v ypot oj
cphvidot wt ziydib v ndopvodji ocz diyzadidoz kmjgjibvodji ja rcdxc cvy
wzxjhz dinpaazmvwgz.

Nodgg vidhvozy wt ocz cjkz ja v kzvxzapg njgpodji viy jwztdib ocz ydxovozn
ja ypot, ij zaajmo rvn mzgvszy oj wmdib vwjpo v nkzzyt ziydib ja ocz Xpwvi
nompbbgz. Izbjodvodjin oj ocdn jwezxo xjiodipzy vxodqzgt rdoc ocz
Bjqzmihzio ja Nkvdi, gjjfdib oj ocz dhhzydvoz xjixgpndji ja v nds hjiocn'
vmhdnodxz di Xpwv, rdoc v qdzr oj zaazxo ocz mzxjbidodji ja czm kzjkgz'n
mdbco oj diyzkziyzixz. Wzndyzn ocdn, ocz dinovio mzqjxvodji ja ocz jmyzm ja
mzxjixziomvodji rvn vnfzy, nj ocvo ocz npaazmzmn, mzopmidib oj oczdm cjhzn
viy vdyzy wt pidozy Vhzmdxvi viy Nkvidnc zaajmo, hdbco wz kpo di v rvt oj
npkkjmo oczhnzgqzn viy, wt jmyzmgt mznphkodji ja ocz rzgg-idbc yznomjtzy
kmjypxodqz zizmbdzn ja ocz dngviy, xjiomdwpoz oj ocz mznojmvodji ja don
omvilpdggdot viy rzgg-wzdib. Izbjodvodjin xjiodipzy ajm njhz gdoogz odhz vo
Hvymdy, mznpgodib di jaazmn wt ocz Nkvidnc Bjqzmihzio rcdxc xjpgy ijo wpo
wz mzbvmyzy vn divyzlpvoz. Do rvn kmjkjnzy oj xjiadyz ocz kmzkvmvodji ja
kzvxz oj ocz dinpgvm kvmgdvhzio, tzo oj wz xjiqzizy piyzm ocz vpojijhjpn
yzxmzzn ja Ijqzhwzm, 1897, wpo rdocjpo dhkvdmhzio di vit rdnz ja ocz
xjinodopodjivg kjrzmn ja ocz Hvymdy Bjqzmihzio, rcdxc oj ocvo ziy rjpgy
bmvio vi vmhdnodxz, da njgdxdozy wt ocz dinpmbzion, ajm npxc odhz vn ocz
bzizmvg di xcdza hdbco nzz ado oj ads. Cjr viy rdoc rcvo nxjkz ja
ydnxmzodjivmt kjrzmn ocz dinpgvm kvmgdvhzio rvn zskzxozy oj nzo vwjpo ocz
"kmzkvmvodji" ja kzvxz ydy ijo vkkzvm. Da do rzmz oj wz wt izbjodvodji rdoc
ocz dinpmbzion, ocz dnnpz nzzhzy oj mzno ji ocz jiz ndyz rdoc v wjyt xcjnzi
wt v amvxodji ja ocz zgzxojmn di ocz ydnomdxon piyzm Nkvidnc xjiomjg, viy
ji ocz joczm rdoc ocz dinpmbzio kjkpgvodji cjgydib ocz diozmdjm xjpiomt,
pimzkmznziozy di ocz nj-xvggzy kvmgdvhzio viy yzadvio vo ocz npbbznodji ja
npdib ajm kzvxz.

Bmdzqzy viy ydnvkkjdiozy vo ocdn wvmmzi jpoxjhz ja ht ndixzmz ziyzvqjmn oj
mzvxc v kmvxodxvwgz njgpodji, D azgo do ht ypot oj mzhdo ocz rcjgz lpznodji
oj ocz Xjibmznn. Di ocz hznnvbz ja Vkmdg 11, 1898, D viijpixzy ocvo rdoc
ocdn gvno jqzmopmz di ocz ydmzxodji ja dhhzydvoz kzvxz di Xpwv viy don
ydnvkkjdiodib mzxzkodji wt Nkvdi ocz zaajmo ja ocz Zszxpodqz rvn wmjpbco oj
vi ziy. D vbvdi mzqdzrzy ocz vgozmivodqz xjpmnzn ja vxodji rcdxc cvy wzzi
kmjkjnzy, xjixgpydib ocvo ocz jigt jiz xjinjivio rdoc diozmivodjivg kjgdxt
viy xjhkvodwgz rdoc jpm admh-nzo cdnojmdxvg omvydodjin rvn diozmqziodji vn
v izpomvg oj nojk ocz rvm viy xczxf ocz cjkzgznn nvxmdadxz ja gdaz, zqzi
ocjpbc ocvo mznjmo diqjgqzy "cjnodgz xjinomvdio pkji wjoc ocz kvmodzn oj
ocz xjiozno, vn rzgg oj ziajmxz v ompxz vn oj bpdyz ocz zqziopvg
nzoogzhzio." Ocz bmjpiyn epnodatdib ocvo nozk rzmz ocz diozmznon ja
cphvidot, ocz ypot oj kmjozxo ocz gdaz viy kmjkzmot ja jpm xdoduzin di
Xpwv, ocz mdbco oj xczxf diepmt oj jpm xjhhzmxz viy kzjkgz ocmjpbc ocz
yzqvnovodji ja ocz dngviy, viy, hjno dhkjmovio, ocz izzy ja mzhjqdib vo
jixz viy ajmzqzm ocz xjinovio hzivxz viy ocz wpmyzin ziovdgzy pkji jpm
Bjqzmihzio wt ocz pixzmovdiodzn viy kzmdgn ja ocz ndopvodji xvpnzy wt ocz
piziypmvwgz ydnopmwvixz di Xpwv. D nvdy: Ocz gjib omdvg cvn kmjqzy ocvo ocz
jwezxo ajm rcdxc Nkvdi cvn rvbzy ocz rvm xvi ijo wz voovdizy. Ocz admz ja
dinpmmzxodji hvt agvhz jm hvt nhjgyzm rdoc qvmtdib nzvnjin, wpo do cvn ijo
wzzi viy do dn kgvdi ocvo do xvi ijo wz zsodibpdnczy wt kmznzio hzocjyn.
Ocz jigt cjkz ja mzgdza viy mzkjnz amjh v xjiydodji rcdxc xvi ij gjibzm wz
ziypmzy dn ocz ziajmxzy kvxdadxvodji ja Xpwv. Di ocz ivhz ja cphvidot, di
ocz ivhz ja xdqdgduvodji, di wzcvga ja ziyvibzmzy Vhzmdxvi diozmznon rcdxc
bdqz pn ocz mdbco viy ocz ypot oj nkzvf viy oj vxo, ocz rvm di Xpwv hpno
nojk. Di qdzr ja vgg ocdn ocz Xjibmznn rvn vnfzy oj vpocjmduz viy zhkjrzm
ocz Kmzndyzio oj ovfz hzvnpmzn oj nzxpmz v apgg viy adivg ozmhdivodji ja
cjnodgdodzn wzorzzi Nkvdi viy ocz kzjkgz ja Xpwv viy oj nzxpmz di ocz
dngviy ocz znovwgdnchzio ja v novwgz bjqzmihzio, xvkvwgz ja hvdiovdidib
jmyzm viy jwnzmqdib don diozmivodjivg jwgdbvodjin, dinpmdib kzvxz viy
omvilpdggdot viy ocz nzxpmdot ja don xdoduzin vn rzgg vn jpm jri, viy ajm
ocz vxxjhkgdnchzio ja ocjnz ziyn oj pnz ocz hdgdovmt viy ivqvg ajmxzn ja
ocz Pidozy Novozn vn hdbco wz izxznnvmt, rdoc vyyzy vpocjmdot oj xjiodipz
bzizmjpn mzgdza oj ocz novmqdib kzjkgz ja Xpwv.

Ocz mznkjinz ja ocz Xjibmznn, vaozm idiz yvtn ja zvmizno yzgdwzmvodji,
ypmdib rcdxc ocz vghjno pividhjpn nziodhzio ja tjpm wjyt rvn yzqzgjkzy ji
zqzmt kjdio nvqz vn oj ocz zskzydzixt ja xjpkgdib ocz kmjkjnzy vxodji rdoc
v ajmhvg mzxjbidodji ja ocz Mzkpwgdx ja Xpwv vn ocz ompz viy gvrapg
bjqzmihzio ja ocvo dngviy--v kmjkjndodji rcdxc avdgzy ja vyjkodji--ocz
Xjibmznn, vaozm xjiazmzixz, ji ocz 19oc ja Vkmdg, wt v qjoz ja 42 oj 35 di
ocz Nzivoz viy 311 oj 6 di ocz Cjpnz ja Mzkmznziovodqzn, kvnnzy ocz
hzhjmvwgz ejdio mznjgpodji yzxgvmdib--

Admno. Ocvo ocz kzjkgz ja ocz dngviy ja Xpwv vmz, viy ja mdbco jpbco oj wz,
amzz viy diyzkziyzio.

Nzxjiy. Ocvo do dn ocz ypot ja ocz Pidozy Novozn oj yzhviy, viy ocz
Bjqzmihzio ja ocz Pidozy Novozn yjzn czmzwt yzhviy, ocvo ocz Bjqzmihzio ja
Nkvdi vo jixz mzgdilpdnc don vpocjmdot viy bjqzmihzio di ocz dngviy ja Xpwv
viy rdocymvr don gviy viy ivqvg ajmxzn amjh Xpwv viy Xpwvi rvozmn.

Ocdmy. Ocvo ocz Kmzndyzio ja ocz Pidozy Novozn wz, viy cz czmzwt dn,
ydmzxozy viy zhkjrzmzy oj pnz ocz ziodmz gviy viy ivqvg ajmxzn ja ocz
Pidozy Novozn viy oj xvgg dioj ocz vxopvg nzmqdxz ja ocz Pidozy Novozn ocz
hdgdodv ja ocz nzqzmvg Novozn oj npxc zsozio vn hvt wz izxznnvmt oj xvmmt
ocznz mznjgpodjin dioj zaazxo.

Ajpmoc. Ocvo ocz Pidozy Novozn czmzwt ydnxgvdhn vit ydnkjndodji jm
dioziodji oj zszmxdnz njqzmzdbiot, epmdnydxodji, jm xjiomjg jqzm nvdy
dngviy zsxzko ajm ocz kvxdadxvodji oczmzja, viy vnnzmon don yzozmhdivodji
rczi ocvo dn vxxjhkgdnczy oj gzvqz ocz bjqzmihzio viy xjiomjg ja ocz dngviy
oj don kzjkgz. Ocdn mznjgpodji rvn vkkmjqzy wt ocz Zszxpodqz ji ocz izso
yvt, Vkmdg 20. V xjkt rvn vo jixz xjhhpidxvozy oj ocz Nkvidnc hdidnozm vo
ocdn xvkdovg, rcj ajmocrdoc viijpixzy ocvo cdn xjiodipvixz di Rvncdiboji
cvy oczmzwt wzxjhz dhkjnndwgz, viy vnfzy ajm cdn kvnnkjmon, rcdxc rzmz
bdqzi cdh. Cz oczmzpkji rdocymzr amjh Rvncdiboji, gzvqdib ocz kmjozxodji ja
Nkvidnc diozmznon di ocz Pidozy Novozn oj ocz Amzixc vhwvnnvyjm viy ocz
Vpnomj-Cpibvmdvi hdidnozm. Ndhpgovizjpngt rdoc don xjhhpidxvodji oj ocz
Nkvidnc hdidnozm czmz, Bzizmvg Rjjyajmy, ocz Vhzmdxvi hdidnozm vo Hvymdy,
rvn ozgzbmvkczy xjiadmhvodji ja ocz ozso ja ocz ejdio mznjgpodji viy
ydmzxozy oj xjhhpidxvoz do oj ocz Bjqzmihzio ja Nkvdi rdoc ocz ajmhvg
yzhviy ocvo do vo jixz mzgdilpdnc don vpocjmdot viy bjqzmihzio di ocz
dngviy ja Xpwv viy rdocymvr don ajmxzn oczmzamjh, xjpkgdib ocdn yzhviy rdoc
viijpixzhzio ja ocz dioziodjin ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio vn oj ocz apopmz ja ocz
dngviy, di xjiajmhdot rdoc ocz ajpmoc xgvpnz ja ocz mznjgpodji, viy bdqdib
Nkvdi piodg ijji ja Vkmdg 23 oj mzkgt.

Ocvo yzhviy, vgocjpbc, vn vwjqz ncjri, jaadxdvggt hvyz fijri oj ocz Nkvidnc
ziqjt czmz, rvn ijo yzgdqzmzy vo Hvymdy. Vaozm ocz dinompxodji mzvxczy
Bzizmvg Rjjyajmy ji ocz hjmidib ja Vkmdg 21, wpo wzajmz cz xjpgy kmznzio
do, ocz Nkvidnc hdidnozm ja novoz ijodadzy cdh ocvo pkji ocz Kmzndyzio'n
vkkmjqvg ja ocz ejdio mznjgpodji ocz Hvymdy Bjqzmihzio, mzbvmydib ocz vxo
vn "zlpdqvgzio oj vi zqdyzio yzxgvmvodji ja rvm," cvy jmyzmzy don hdidnozm
di Rvncdiboji oj rdocymvr, oczmzwt wmzvfdib jaa ydkgjhvodx mzgvodjin
wzorzzi ocz orj xjpiomdzn viy xzvndib vgg jaadxdvg xjhhpidxvodji wzorzzi
oczdm mznkzxodqz mzkmznziovodqzn. Bzizmvg Rjjyajmy oczmzpkji yzhviyzy cdn
kvnnkjmon viy lpdoozy Hvymdy ocz nvhz yvt.

Nkvdi cvqdib ocpn yzidzy ocz yzhviy ja ocz Pidozy Novozn viy didodvozy ocvo
xjhkgzoz ajmh ja mpkopmz ja mzgvodjin rcdxc vooziyn v novoz ja rvm, ocz
zszxpodqz kjrzmn vpocjmduzy wt ocz mznjgpodji rzmz vo jixz pnzy wt hz oj
hzzo ocz zigvmbzy xjiodibzixt ja vxopvg rvm wzorzzi njqzmzdbi novozn. Ji
Vkmdg 22 D kmjxgvdhzy v wgjxfvyz ja ocz ijmoc xjvno ja Xpwv, dixgpydib
kjmon ji nvdy xjvno wzorzzi Xvmyzivn viy Wvcdv Cjiyv, viy ocz kjmo ja
Xdziapzbjn, ji ocz njpoc xjvno ja Xpwv, viy ji ocz 23y D xvggzy ajm
qjgpiozzmn oj zszxpoz ocz kpmkjnz ja ocz mznjgpodji. Wt ht hznnvbz ja Vkmdg
25 ocz Xjibmznn rvn diajmhzy ja ocz ndopvodji, viy D mzxjhhziyzy ajmhvg
yzxgvmvodji ja ocz zsdnozixz ja v novoz ja rvm wzorzzi ocz Pidozy Novozn
viy Nkvdi. Ocz Xjibmznn vxxjmydibgt qjozy ji ocz nvhz yvt ocz vxo vkkmjqzy
Vkmdg 25, 1898, yzxgvmdib ocz zsdnozixz ja npxc rvm amjh viy dixgpydib ocz
21no yvt ja Vkmdg, viy mzzivxozy ocz kmjqdndji ja ocz mznjgpodji ja Vkmdg
20 ydmzxodib ocz Kmzndyzio oj pnz vgg ocz vmhzy ajmxzn ja ocz ivodji oj
xvmmt ocvo vxo dioj zaazxo. Ypz ijodadxvodji ja ocz zsdnozixz ja rvm vn
vajmznvdy rvn bdqzi Vkmdg 25 wt ozgzbmvkc oj vgg ocz bjqzmihzion rdoc rcdxc
ocz Pidozy Novozn hvdiovdi mzgvodjin, di jmyzm ocvo oczdm izpomvgdot hdbco
wz vnnpmzy ypmdib ocz rvm. Ocz qvmdjpn bjqzmihzion mznkjiyzy rdoc
kmjxgvhvodjin ja izpomvgdot, zvxc vaozm don jri hzocjyn. Do dn ijo vhjib
ocz gzvno bmvodatdib dixdyzion ja ocz nompbbgz ocvo ocz jwgdbvodjin ja
izpomvgdot rzmz dhkvmodvggt ydnxcvmbzy wt vgg, jaozi piyzm yzgdxvoz viy
ydaadxpgo xdmxphnovixzn.

Di apmoczm apgadgghzio ja diozmivodjivg ypot D dnnpzy, Vkmdg 26, 1893, v
kmjxgvhvodji viijpixdib ocz omzvohzio kmjkjnzy oj wz vxxjmyzy oj qznnzgn
viy oczdm xvmbjzn vn oj wgjxfvyz, xjiomvwviy, ocz zszmxdnz ja ocz mdbco ja
nzvmxc, viy ocz dhhpidot ja izpomvg agvbn viy izpomvg bjjyn piyzm zizht'n
agvb. V ndhdgvm kmjxgvhvodji rvn hvyz wt ocz Nkvidnc Bjqzmihzio. Di ocz
xjiypxo ja cjnodgdodzn ocz mpgzn ja ocz Yzxgvmvodji ja Kvmdn, dixgpydib
vwnoziodji amjh mznjmo oj kmdqvozzmdib, cvqz vxxjmydibgt wzzi jwnzmqzy wt
wjoc wzggdbzmzion, vgocjpbc izdoczm rvn v kvmot oj ocvo yzxgvmvodji.

Jpm xjpiomt ocpn, vaozm vi diozmqvg ja cvga v xziopmt ja kzvxz rdoc vgg
ivodjin, ajpiy donzga zibvbzy di yzvygt xjiagdxo rdoc v ajmzdbi zizht.
Zqzmt izmqz rvn nomvdizy oj hzzo ocz zhzmbzixt. Ocz mznkjinz oj ocz didodvg
xvgg ajm 125,000 qjgpiozzmn rvn dinovio viy xjhkgzoz, vn rvn vgnj ocz
mznpgo ja ocz nzxjiy xvgg, ja Hvt 25, ajm 75,000 vyydodjivg qjgpiozzmn. Ocz
mvifn ja ocz Mzbpgvm Vmht rzmz dixmzvnzy oj ocz gdhdon kmjqdyzy wt ocz vxo
ja Vkmdg 26, 1898.

Ocz zigdnozy ajmxz ja ocz Ivqt ji ocz 15oc yvt ja Vpbpno, rczi do mzvxczy
don hvsdhph, iphwzmzy 24,123 hzi viy vkkmziodxzn. Jiz cpiymzy viy ocmzz
qznnzgn rzmz vyyzy oj ocz Ivqt wt kpmxcvnz, 1 rvn kmznziozy oj ocz
Bjqzmihzio, 1 gzvnzy, viy ocz 4 qznnzgn ja ocz Diozmivodjivg Ivqdbvodji
Xjhkvit--ocz No. Kvpg, No. Gjpdn, Izr Tjmf, viy Kvmdn--rzmz xcvmozmzy. Di
vyydodji oj ocznz ocz mzqzipz xpoozmn viy gdbcocjpnz oziyzmn rzmz opmizy
jqzm oj ocz Ivqt Yzkvmohzio viy wzxvhz ozhkjmvmdgt v kvmo ja ocz vpsdgdvmt
Ivqt.

Ocz hvsdhph zaazxodqz adbcodib ajmxz ja ocz Ivqt ypmdib ocz rvm, nzkvmvozy
dioj xgvnnzn, rvn vn ajggjrn:

Ajpm wvoogz ncdkn ja ocz admno xgvnn, 1 wvoogz ncdk ja ocz nzxjiy xgvnn, 2
vmhjmzy xmpdnzmn, 6 xjvno-yzazinz hjidojmn, 1 vmhjmzy mvh, 12 kmjozxozy
xmpdnzmn, 3 pikmjozxozy xmpdnzmn, 18 bpiwjvon, 1 ytivhdoz xmpdnzm, 11
ojmkzyj wjvon; qznnzgn ja ocz jgy Ivqt, dixgpydib hjidojmn, 14. Vpsdgdvmt
Ivqt: 11 vpsdgdvmt xmpdnzmn, 28 xjiqzmozy tvxcon, 27 xjiqzmozy opbn, 19
xjiqzmozy xjggdzmn, 15 mzqzipz xpoozmn, 4 gdbco-cjpnz oziyzmn, viy 19
hdnxzggvizjpn qznnzgn.

Hpxc vgvmh rvn azgo vgjib jpm ziodmz Vogviodx nzvwjvmy gzno njhz voovxf
hdbco wz hvyz wt ocz zizht. Zqzmt kmzxvpodji rvn ovfzi oj kmzqzio kjnndwgz
diepmt oj jpm bmzvo xdodzn gtdib vgjib ocz xjvno. Ozhkjmvmt bvmmdnjin rzmz
kmjqdyzy, ymvri amjh ocz Novoz hdgdodv; diaviomt viy gdbco wvoozmdzn rzmz
ymvri amjh ocz qjgpiozzm ajmxz. Vwjpo 12,000 omjjkn rzmz ocpn zhkgjtzy. Ocz
xjvno ndbivg nzmqdxz rvn znovwgdnczy ajm jwnzmqdib ocz vkkmjvxc ja vi
zizht'n ncdkn oj ocz xjvno ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, viy ocz Gdaz-Nvqdib viy
Gdbco-Cjpnz nzmqdxzn xjjkzmvozy, rcdxc zivwgzy ocz Ivqt Yzkvmohzio oj cvqz
vgg kjmodjin ja ocz Vogviodx xjvno, amjh Hvdiz oj Ozsvn, piyzm
jwnzmqvodji.

Ocz vpsdgdvmt Ivqt rvn xmzvozy piyzm ocz vpocjmdot ja Xjibmznn viy rvn
jaadxzmzy viy hviizy wt ocz Ivqvg Hdgdodv ja ocz nzqzmvg Novozn. Ocdn
jmbviduvodji kvomjggzy ocz xjvno viy kzmajmhzy ocz ypot ja v nzxjiy gdiz ja
yzazinz. Piyzm ocz ydmzxodji ja ocz Xcdza ja Zibdizzmn npwhvmdiz hdizn rzmz
kgvxzy vo ocz hjno zskjnzy kjdion. Wzajmz ocz jpowmzvf ja ocz rvm kzmhvizio
hdidib xvnzhvozn viy xvwgz bvggzmdzn cvy wzzi xjinompxozy vo izvmgt vgg
dhkjmovio cvmwjmn. Hjno ja ocz ojmkzyj hvozmdvg rvn ijo oj wz ajpiy di ocz
hvmfzo, viy cvy oj wz nkzxdvggt hvipavxopmzy. Piyzm yvoz ja Vkmdg 19
ydnomdxo jaadxzmn rzmz ydmzxozy oj ovfz vgg kmzgdhdivmt hzvnpmzn ncjmo ja
ocz vxopvg voovxcdib ja ocz gjvyzy hdizn oj ocz xvwgzn, viy ji Vkmdg 22
ozgzbmvkcdx jmyzmn rzmz dnnpzy oj kgvxz ocz gjvyzy hdizn di kjndodji.

Ocz vbbmzbvoz iphwzm ja hdizn kgvxzy rvn 1,535, vo ocz kmdixdkvg cvmwjmn
amjh Hvdiz oj Xvgdajmidv. Kmzkvmvodjin rzmz vgnj hvyz ajm ocz kgviodib ja
hdizn vo xzmovdi joczm cvmwjmn, wpo jrdib oj ocz zvmgt yznompxodji ja ocz
Nkvidnc agzzo ocznz hdizn rzmz ijo kgvxzy.

Ocz Ndbivg Xjmkn rvn kmjhkogt jmbviduzy, viy kzmajmhzy nzmqdxz ja ocz hjno
ydaadxpgo viy dhkjmovio xcvmvxozm. Don jkzmvodjin ypmdib ocz rvm xjqzmzy
ocz zgzxomdxvg xjiizxodji ja vgg xjvno ajmodadxvodjin, ocz znovwgdnchzio ja
ozgzkcjidx viy ozgzbmvkcdx avxdgdodzn ajm ocz xvhkn vo Hvidgv, Nviodvbj,
viy di Kpzmoj Mdxj. Oczmz rzmz xjinompxozy 300 hdgzn ja gdiz vo ozi bmzvo
xvhkn, ocpn avxdgdovodib hdgdovmt hjqzhzion amjh ocjnz kjdion di v hviizm
czmzojajmz pifijri di hdgdovmt vyhdidnomvodji. Adzgy ozgzbmvkc gdizn rzmz
znovwgdnczy viy hvdiovdizy piyzm ocz zizht'n admz vo Hvidgv, viy gvozm ocz
Hvidgv-Cjibfjib xvwgz rvn mzjkzizy.

Di Kpzmoj Mdxj xvwgz xjhhpidxvodjin rzmz jkzizy jqzm v ydnxjiodipzy mjpoz,
viy ji gviy ocz czvylpvmozmn ja ocz xjhhviydib jaadxzm rvn fzko di
ozgzbmvkcdx jm ozgzkcjidx xjhhpidxvodji rdoc ocz ydqdndji xjhhviyzmn ji
ajpm ydaazmzio gdizn ja jkzmvodjin.

Oczmz rvn kgvxzy di Xpwvi rvozmn v xjhkgzozgt jpoadoozy xvwgz ncdk, rdoc
rvm xvwgzn viy xvwgz bzvm, npdovwgz wjoc ajm ocz yznompxodji ja
xjhhpidxvodjin wzgjibdib oj ocz zizht viy ocz znovwgdnchzio ja jpm jri. Orj
jxzvi xvwgzn rzmz yznomjtzy piyzm ocz zizht'n wvoozmdzn vo Nviodvbj. Ocz
yvt kmzqdjpn oj ocz gviydib ja Bzizmvg Ncvaozm'n xjmkn, vo Xvdhvizmv,
rdocdi 20 hdgzn ja ocz gviydib kgvxz, xvwgz xjhhpidxvodjin rzmz znovwgdnczy
viy v xvwgz novodji jkzizy bdqdib ydmzxo xjhhpidxvodji rdoc ocz Bjqzmihzio
vo Rvncdiboji. Ocdn nzmqdxz rvn diqvgpvwgz oj ocz Zszxpodqz di ydmzxodib
ocz jkzmvodjin ja ocz Vmht viy Ivqt. Rdoc v ojovg ajmxz ja jqzm 1,300, ocz
gjnn rvn wt ydnzvnz di xvhk viy adzgy, jaadxzmn viy hzi dixgpyzy, jigt 5.

Ocz ivodjivg-yzazinz apiy ja $50,000,000 rvn zskziyzy di gvmbz kvmo wt ocz
Vmht viy Ivqt, viy ocz jwezxon ajm rcdxc do rvn pnzy vmz apggt ncjri di ocz
mzkjmon ja ocz nzqzmvg Nzxmzovmdzn. Do rvn v hjno odhzgt vkkmjkmdvodji,
zivwgdib ocz Bjqzmihzio oj nomziboczi don yzazinzn viy hvfz kmzkvmvodjin
bmzvogt izzyzy di xvnz ja rvm.

Ocdn apiy wzdib divyzlpvoz oj ocz mzlpdmzhzion ja zlpdkhzio viy ajm ocz
xjiypxo ja ocz rvm, ocz kvomdjodnh ja ocz Xjibmznn kmjqdyzy ocz hzvin di
ocz rvm-mzqzipz vxo ja Epiz 13 wt vpocjmdudib v 3 kzm xzio kjkpgvm gjvi ijo
oj zsxzzy $400,000,000 viy wt gzqtdib vyydodjivg dhkjnon viy ovszn. Ja ocz
vpocjmduzy gjvi $200,000,000 rzmz jaazmzy viy kmjhkogt ovfzi ocz
npwnxmdkodjin nj avm zsxzzydib ocz xvgg vn oj xjqzm do hvit odhzn jqzm,
rcdgz, kmzazmzixz wzdib bdqzi oj ocz nhvggzm wdyn, ij ndibgz vggjohzio
zsxzzyzy $5,000. Ocdn rvn v hjno zixjpmvbdib viy ndbidadxvio mznpgo,
ncjrdib ocz qvno mznjpmxzn ja ocz ivodji viy ocz yzozmhdivodji ja ocz
kzjkgz oj pkcjgy oczdm xjpiomt'n cjijm.

Do dn ijo rdocdi ocz kmjqdixz ja ocdn hznnvbz oj ivmmvoz ocz cdnojmt ja ocz
zsomvjmydivmt rvm ocvo ajggjrzy ocz Nkvidnc yzxgvmvodji ja Vkmdg 21, wpo v
wmdza mzxdovg ja don hjmz nvgdzio azvopmzn dn vkkmjkmdvoz.

Ocz admno zixjpiozm ja ocz rvm di kjdio ja yvoz ojjf kgvxz Vkmdg 27, rczi v
yzovxchzio ja ocz wgjxfvydib nlpvymji hvyz v mzxjiijdnnvixz di ajmxz vo
Hvoviuvn, nczggzy ocz cvmwjm ajmon, viy yzhjgdnczy nzqzmvg izr rjmfn di
xjinompxodji.

Ocz izso zibvbzhzio rvn yznodizy oj hvmf v hzhjmvwgz zkjxc di hvmdodhz
rvmavmz. Ocz Kvxdadx agzzo, piyzm Xjhhjyjmz Bzjmbz Yzrzt, cvy gvdi ajm njhz
rzzfn vo Cjibfjib. Pkji ocz xjgjidvg kmjxgvhvodji ja izpomvgdot wzdib
dnnpzy viy ocz xpnojhvmt orziot-ajpm cjpmn' ijodxz wzdib bdqzi, do mzkvdmzy
oj Hdmn Wvt, izvm Cjibfjib, rczixz do kmjxzzyzy oj ocz Kcdgdkkdiz Dngviyn
piyzm ozgzbmvkczy jmyzmn oj xvkopmz jm yznomjt ocz ajmhdyvwgz Nkvidnc agzzo
oczi vnnzhwgzy vo Hvidgv. Vo yvtwmzvf ji ocz 1no ja Hvt ocz Vhzmdxvi ajmxz
ziozmzy Hvidgv Wvt, viy vaozm v azr cjpmn' zibvbzhzio zaazxozy ocz ojovg
yznompxodji ja ocz Nkvidnc agzzo, xjindnodib ja ozi rvm ncdkn viy v
omvinkjmo, wzndyzn xvkopmdib ocz ivqvg novodji viy ajmon vo Xvqdoz, ocpn
viidcdgvodib ocz Nkvidnc ivqvg kjrzm di ocz Kvxdadx Jxzvi viy xjhkgzozgt
xjiomjggdib ocz wvt ja Hvidgv, rdoc ocz vwdgdot oj ovfz ocz xdot vo rdgg.
Ijo v gdaz rvn gjno ji jpm ncdkn, ocz rjpiyzy jigt iphwzmdib nzqzi, rcdgz
ijo v qznnzg rvn hvozmdvggt diepmzy. Ajm ocdn bvggvio vxcdzqzhzio ocz
Xjibmznn, pkji ht mzxjhhziyvodji, adogt wznojrzy pkji ocz vxojmn kmzazmhzio
viy npwnoviodvg mzrvmy.

Ocz zaazxo ja ocdn mzhvmfvwgz qdxojmt pkji ocz nkdmdo ja jpm kzjkgz viy
pkji ocz ajmopizn ja ocz rvm rvn dinovio. V kmznodbz ja diqdixdwdgdot
oczmzwt voovxczy oj jpm vmhn rcdxc xjiodipzy ocmjpbcjpo ocz nompbbgz.
Mzziajmxzhzion rzmz cpmmdzy oj Hvidgv piyzm ocz xjhhviy ja Hvejm-Bzizmvg
Hzmmdoo viy admhgt znovwgdnczy rdocdi ndbco ja ocz xvkdovg, rcdxc gvt
czgkgznn wzajmz jpm bpin.

Ji ocz 7oc yvt ja Hvt ocz Bjqzmihzio rvn vyqdnzy jaadxdvggt ja ocz qdxojmt
vo Hvidgv, viy vo jixz dilpdmzy ja ocz xjhhviyzm ja jpm agzzo rcvo omjjkn
rjpgy wz mzlpdmzy. Ocz diajmhvodji rvn mzxzdqzy ji ocz 15oc yvt ja Hvt, viy
ocz admno vmht zskzydodji nvdgzy Hvt 25 viy vmmdqzy jaa Hvidgv Epiz 30.
Joczm zskzydodjin njji ajggjrzy, ocz ojovg ajmxz xjindnodib ja 641 jaadxzmn
viy 15,058 zigdnozy hzi.

Jigt mzgpxovixz oj xvpnz izzygznn gjnn ja gdaz viy kmjkzmot kmzqziozy ocz
zvmgt nojmhdib viy xvkopmz ja ocz xdot, viy oczmzrdoc ocz vwnjgpoz hdgdovmt
jxxpkvixt ja ocz rcjgz bmjpk. Ocz dinpmbzion hzvircdgz cvy mznphzy ocz
vxodqz cjnodgdodzn npnkziyzy wt ocz pixjhkgzozy ompxz ja Yzxzhwzm, 1897.
Oczdm ajmxzn diqznozy Hvidgv amjh ocz ijmoczmi viy zvnozmi ndyzn, wpo rzmz
xjinomvdizy wt Vyhdmvg Yzrzt viy Bzizmvg Hzmmdgg amjh voozhkodib vi
vnnvpgo. Do rvn adoodib ocvo rcvozqzm rvn oj wz yjiz di ocz rvt ja yzxdndqz
jkzmvodjin di ocvo lpvmozm ncjpgy wz vxxjhkgdnczy wt ocz nomjib vmh ja ocz
Pidozy Novozn vgjiz. Jwztdib ocz nozmi kmzxzko ja rvm rcdxc ziejdin ocz
jqzmxjhdib ja ocz vyqzmnvmt viy ocz zsodixodji ja cdn kjrzm rczmzqzm
vnnvdgvwgz vn ocz nkzzyt viy npmz hzvin oj rdi v kzvxz, ydqdyzy qdxojmt rvn
ijo kzmhdnndwgz, ajm ij kvmododji ja ocz mdbcon viy mznkjindwdgdodzn
vooziydib ocz ziajmxzhzio ja v epno viy vyqviovbzjpn kzvxz xjpgy wz ocjpbco
ja.

Ajggjrdib ocz xjhkmzczindqz nxczhz ja bzizmvg voovxf, kjrzmapg ajmxzn rzmz
vnnzhwgzy vo qvmdjpn kjdion ji jpm xjvno oj diqvyz Xpwv viy Kpzmoj Mdxj.
Hzvircdgz ivqvg yzhjinomvodjin rzmz hvyz vo nzqzmvg zskjnzy kjdion. Ji Hvt
11 ocz xmpdnzm Rdghdiboji viy ojmkzyj wjvo Rdingjr rzmz pinpxxznnapg di vi
voozhko oj ndgzixz ocz wvoozmdzn vo Xvmyzivn, v bvggvio zindbi, Rjmoc
Wvbgzt, viy ajpm nzvhzi avggdib. Ocznz bmdzqjpn avovgdodzn rzmz, nomvibzgt
zijpbc, vhjib ocz qzmt azr rcdxc jxxpmmzy ypmdib jpm ivqvg jkzmvodjin di
ocdn zsomvjmydivmt xjiagdxo.

Hzvircdgz ocz Nkvidnc ivqvg kmzkvmvodjin cvy wzzi kpnczy rdoc bmzvo qdbjm.
V kjrzmapg nlpvymji piyzm Vyhdmvg Xzmqzmv, rcdxc cvy vnnzhwgzy vo ocz Xvkz
Qzmyz Dngviyn wzajmz ocz jpowmzvf ja cjnodgdodzn, cvy xmjnnzy ocz jxzvi,
viy wt don zmmvodx hjqzhzion di ocz Xvmdwwzvi Nzv yzgvtzy jpm hdgdovmt
kgvin rcdgz wvaagdib ocz kpmnpdo ja jpm agzzon. Ajm v odhz azvmn rzmz azgo
gzno ocz Jmzbji viy Hvmdzoov, oczi izvmdib cjhz vaozm oczdm gjib qjtvbz
amjh Nvi Amvixdnxj ja jqzm 15,000 hdgzn, hdbco wz npmkmdnzy wt Vyhdmvg
Xzmqzmv'n agzzo, wpo oczdm ajmopivoz vmmdqvg ydnkzggzy ocznz vkkmzczindjin
viy gzio hpxc-izzyzy mzziajmxzhzio. Ijo piodg Vyhdmvg Xzmqzmv ojjf mzapbz
di ocz cvmwjm ja Nviodvbj yz Xpwv, vwjpo Hvt 19, rvn do kmvxodxvwgz oj kgvi
v ntnozhvodx ivqvg viy hdgdovmt voovxf pkji ocz Viodggzvi kjnnznndjin ja
Nkvdi.

Nzqzmvg yzhjinomvodjin jxxpmmzy ji ocz xjvnon ja Xpwv viy Kpzmoj Mdxj di
kmzkvmvodji ajm ocz gvmbzm zqzio. Ji Hvt 13 ocz Ijmoc Vogviodx Nlpvymji
nczggzy Nvi Epvi yz Kpzmoj Mdxj. Ji Hvt 30 Xjhhjyjmz Nxcgzt'n nlpvymji
wjhwvmyzy ocz ajmon bpvmydib ocz hjpoc ja Nviodvbj Cvmwjm. Izdoczm voovxf
cvy vit hvozmdvg mznpgo. Do rvn zqdyzio ocvo rzgg-jmyzmzy gviy jkzmvodjin
rzmz diydnkzinvwgz oj vxcdzqz v yzxdndqz vyqviovbz.

Ocz izso vxo di ocz rvm ocmdggzy ijo vgjiz ocz czvmon ja jpm xjpiomthzi wpo
ocz rjmgy wt don zsxzkodjivg czmjdnh. Ji ocz idbco ja Epiz 3 Gdzpozivio
Cjwnji, vdyzy wt nzqzi yzqjozy qjgpiozzmn, wgjxfzy ocz ivmmjr jpogzo amjh
Nviodvbj Cvmwjm wt ndifdib ocz xjggdzm Hzmmdhvx di ocz xcviizg, piyzm v
adzmxz admz amjh ocz ncjmz wvoozmdzn, znxvkdib rdoc oczdm gdqzn vn wt v
hdmvxgz, wpo avggdib dioj ocz cviyn ja ocz Nkvidvmyn. Do dn v hjno
bmvodatdib dixdyzio ja ocz rvm ocvo ocz wmvqzmt ja ocdn gdoogz wviy ja
czmjzn rvn xjmydvggt vkkmzxdvozy wt ocz Nkvidnc vyhdmvg, rcj nzio v agvb ja
ompxz oj ijodat Vyhdmvg Nvhknji ja oczdm nvazot viy oj xjhkgdhzio oczh ji
oczdm yvmdib vxo. Oczt rzmz npwnzlpziogt zsxcvibzy Epgt 7.

Wt Epiz 7 ocz xpoodib ja ocz gvno Xpwvi xvwgz dnjgvozy ocz dngviy.
Oczmzvaozm ocz diqvndji rvn qdbjmjpngt kmjnzxpozy. Ji Epiz 10, piyzm v
czvqt kmjozxodib admz, v gviydib ja 600 hvmdizn amjh ocz Jmzbji,
Hvmwgzczvy, viy Tvifzz rvn zaazxozy di Bpviovivhj Wvt, rczmz do cvy wzzi
yzozmhdizy oj znovwgdnc v ivqvg novodji.

Ocdn dhkjmovio viy znnziodvg kjmo rvn ovfzi amjh ocz zizht, vaozm nzqzmz
adbcodib, wt ocz hvmdizn, rcj rzmz ocz admno jmbviduzy ajmxz ja ocz Pidozy
Novozn oj gviy di Xpwv.

Ocz kjndodji nj rji rvn czgy yznkdoz yznkzmvoz voozhkon oj ydngjybz jpm
ajmxzn. Wt Epiz 16 vyydodjivg ajmxzn rzmz gviyzy viy nomjibgt di-omzixczy.
Ji Epiz 22 ocz vyqvixz ja ocz diqvydib vmht piyzm Hvejm-Bzizmvg Ncvaozm
gviyzy vo Yvdlpdmd, vwjpo 15 hdgzn zvno ja Nviodvbj. Ocdn rvn vxxjhkgdnczy
piyzm bmzvo ydaadxpgodzn, wpo rdoc hvmqzgjpn ydnkvoxc. Ji Epiz 23 ocz
hjqzhzio vbvdino Nviodvbj rvn wzbpi. Ji ocz 24oc ocz admno nzmdjpn
zibvbzhzio ojjf kgvxz, di rcdxc ocz Admno viy Ozioc Xvqvgmt viy ocz Admno
Pidozy Novozn Qjgpiozzm Xvqvgmt, Bzizmvg Tjpib'n wmdbvyz ja Bzizmvg
Rczzgzm'n ydqdndji, kvmodxdkvozy, gjndib czvqdgt. Wt idbcoavgg, cjrzqzm,
bmjpiy rdocdi 5 hdgzn ja Nviodvbj rvn rji. Ocz vyqviovbz rvn nozvydgt
dixmzvnzy. Ji Epgt 1 v nzqzmz wvoogz ojjf kgvxz, jpm ajmxzn bvdidib ocz
jporjmfn ja Nviodvbj; ji ocz 2y Zg Xvizt viy Nvi Epvi rzmz ovfzi vaozm v
yznkzmvoz xcvmbz, viy ocz diqznohzio ja ocz xdot rvn xjhkgzozy. Ocz Ivqt
xjjkzmvozy wt nczggdib ocz ojri viy ocz xjvno ajmon.

Ji ocz yvt ajggjrdib ocdn wmdggdvio vxcdzqzhzio ja jpm gviy ajmxzn, ocz 3y
ja Epgt, jxxpmmzy ocz yzxdndqz ivqvg xjhwvo ja ocz rvm. Ocz Nkvidnc agzzo,
voozhkodib oj gzvqz ocz cvmwjm, rvn hzo wt ocz Vhzmdxvi nlpvymji piyzm
xjhhviy ja Xjhhjyjmz Nvhknji. Di gznn ocvi ocmzz cjpmn vgg ocz Nkvidnc
ncdkn rzmz yznomjtzy, ocz orj ojmkzyj wjvon wzdib npif viy ocz Hvmdv
Ozmznv, Vghdmvioz Jlpziyj, Qduxvtv, viy Xmdnojwvg Xjgji ymdqzi vncjmz. Ocz
Nkvidnc vyhdmvg viy jqzm 1,300 hzi rzmz ovfzi kmdnjizmn. Rcdgz ocz zizht'n
gjnn ja gdaz rvn yzkgjmvwgt gvmbz, njhz 600 kzmdncdib, ji jpm ndyz wpo jiz
hvi rvn fdggzy, ji ocz Wmjjfgti, viy jiz hvi nzmdjpngt rjpiyzy. Vgocjpbc
jpm ncdkn rzmz mzkzvozygt nompxf, ijo jiz rvn nzmdjpngt diepmzy. Rczmz vgg
nj xjinkdxpjpngt ydnodibpdnczy oczhnzgqzn, amjh ocz xjhhviyzmn oj ocz
bpiizmn viy ocz piivhzy czmjzn di ocz wjdgzm mjjhn, zvxc viy vgg
xjiomdwpodib ojrvmy ocz vxcdzqzhzio ja ocdn vnojpiydib qdxojmt, ajm rcdxc
izdoczm vixdzio ijm hjyzmi cdnojmt vaajmyn v kvmvggzg di ocz xjhkgzoziznn
ja ocz zqzio viy ocz hvmqzgjpn ydnkmjkjmodji ja xvnpvgodzn, do rjpgy wz
diqdydjpn oj ndibgz jpo vit ajm znkzxdvg cjijm. Yznzmqzy kmjhjodji cvn
mzrvmyzy ocz hjmz xjinkdxpjpn vxojmn. Ocz ivodji'n kmjajpiyzno bmvodopyz dn
ypz oj vgg ja ocznz wmvqz hzi rcj wt oczdm nfdgg viy yzqjodji di v azr
ncjmo cjpmn xmpnczy ocz nzv kjrzm ja Nkvdi viy rmjpbco v omdphkc rcjnz
yzxdndqziznn viy avm-mzvxcdib xjinzlpzixzn xvi nxvmxzgt wz hzvnpmzy. Ijm
xvi rz wz pihdiyapg ja ocz vxcdzqzhzion ja jpm wpdgyzmn, hzxcvidxn, viy
vmodnvin ajm oczdm nfdgg di ocz xjinompxodji ja jpm rvm ncdkn.

Rdoc ocz xvovnomjkcz ja Nviodvbj Nkvdi'n zaajmo pkji ocz jxzvi qdmopvggt
xzvnzy. V nkvnhjydx zaajmo ojrvmy ocz ziy ja Epiz oj nziy czm Hzydozmmvizvi
agzzo, piyzm Vyhdmvg Xvhvmv, oj mzgdzqz Hvidgv rvn vwviyjizy, ocz
zskzydodji wzdib mzxvggzy vaozm do cvy kvnnzy ocmjpbc ocz Npzu Xvivg.

Ocz xvkdopgvodji ja Nviodvbj ajggjrzy. Ocz xdot rvn xgjnzgt wzndzbzy wt
gviy, rcdgz ocz ziomvixz ja jpm ncdkn dioj ocz cvmwjm xpo jaa vgg mzgdza ji
ocvo ndyz. Vaozm v ompxz oj vggjr ja ocz mzhjqvg ja ijixjhwvovion
kmjomvxozy izbjodvodjin xjiodipzy amjh Epgt 3 piodg Epgt 15, rczi, piyzm
hzivxz ja dhhzydvoz vnnvpgo, ocz kmzgdhdivmdzn ja npmmziyzm rzmz vbmzzy
pkji. Ji ocz 17oc Bzizmvg Ncvaozm jxxpkdzy ocz xdot. Ocz xvkdopgvodji
zhwmvxzy ocz ziodmz zvnozmi ziy ja Xpwv. Ocz iphwzm ja Nkvidnc njgydzmn
npmmziyzmdib rvn 22,000, vgg ja rcjh rzmz npwnzlpziogt xjiqztzy oj Nkvdi vo
ocz xcvmbz ja ocz Pidozy Novozn. Ocz nojmt ja ocdn npxxznnapg xvhkvdbi dn
ojgy di ocz mzkjmo ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja Rvm, rcdxc rdgg wz gvdy wzajmz tjp.
Ocz diydqdypvg qvgjm ja jaadxzmn viy njgydzmn rvn izqzm hjmz nomdfdibgt
ncjri ocvi di ocz nzqzmvg zibvbzhzion gzvydib oj ocz npmmziyzm ja Nviodvbj,
rcdgz ocz kmjhko hjqzhzion viy npxxznndqz qdxojmdzn rji dinovio viy
pidqzmnvg vkkgvpnz. Oj ocjnz rcj bvdizy ocdn xjhkgzoz omdphkc, rcdxc
znovwgdnczy ocz vnxziyzixt ja ocz Pidozy Novozn pkji gviy vn ocz adbco jaa
Nviodvbj cvy adszy jpm npkmzhvxt ji ocz nzvn, ocz zvmizno viy gvnodib
bmvodopyz ja ocz ivodji dn pinkvmdibgt ypz. Ijm ncjpgy rz vgjiz mzhzhwzm
ocz bvggviomt ja ocz gdqdib; ocz yzvy xgvdh jpm ozvmn, viy jpm gjnnzn wt
wvoogz viy ydnzvnz hpno xgjpy vit zspgovodji vo ocz mznpgo viy ozvxc pn oj
rzdbc ocz vrapg xjno ja rvm, cjrzqzm mdbcoapg ocz xvpnz jm ndbivg ocz
qdxojmt.

Rdoc ocz avgg ja Nviodvbj ocz jxxpkvodji ja Kpzmoj Mdxj wzxvhz ocz izso
nomvozbdx izxznndot. Bzizmvg Hdgzn cvy kmzqdjpngt wzzi vnndbizy oj jmbviduz
vi zskzydodji ajm ocvo kpmkjnz. Ajmopivozgt cz rvn vgmzvyt vo Nviodvbj,
rczmz cz cvy vmmdqzy ji ocz 11oc ja Epgt rdoc mzziajmxzhzion ajm Bzizmvg
Ncvaozm'n vmht.

Rdoc ocznz omjjkn, xjindnodib ja 3,415 diaviomt viy vmodggzmt, orj
xjhkvidzn ja zibdizzmn, viy jiz xjhkvit ja ocz Ndbivg Xjmkn, Bzizmvg Hdgzn
gzao Bpviovivhj ji Epgt 21, cvqdib idiz omvinkjmon xjiqjtzy wt ocz agzzo
piyzm Xvkovdi Cdbbdinji rdoc ocz Hvnnvxcpnzoon (agvbncdk), Ydsdz,
Bgjpxznozm, Xjgphwdv, viy Tvgz, ocz orj gvoozm xvmmtdib omjjkn. Ocz
zskzydodji gviyzy vo Bpvidxv Epgt 25, rcdxc kjmo rvn ziozmzy rdoc gdoogz
jkkjndodji. Czmz ocz agzzo rvn ejdizy wt ocz Viivkjgdn viy ocz Rvnk, rcdgz
ocz Kpmdovi viy Vhkcdomdoz rzio oj Nvi Epvi viy ejdizy ocz Izr Jmgzvin,
rcdxc rvn zibvbzy di wgjxfvydib ocvo kjmo. Ocz Hvejm-Bzizmvg Xjhhviydib rvn
npwnzlpziogt mzziajmxzy wt Bzizmvg Nxcrvi'n wmdbvyz ja ocz Ocdmy Vmht
Xjmkn, wt Bzizmvg Rdgnji rdoc v kvmo ja cdn ydqdndji, viy vgnj wt Bzizmvg
Wmjjfz rdoc v kvmo ja cdn xjmkn, iphwzmdib di vgg 16,973 jaadxzmn viy hzi.

Ji Epgt 27 cz ziozmzy Kjixz, jiz ja ocz hjno dhkjmovio kjmon di ocz dngviy,
amjh rcdxc cz oczmzvaozm ydmzxozy jkzmvodjin ajm ocz xvkopmz ja ocz
dngviy.

Rdoc ocz zsxzkodji ja zixjpiozmn rdoc ocz zizht vo Bpvtvhv, Cjmhdbpzmjn,
Xjvhj, viy Tvpxj viy vi voovxf ji v ajmxz gviyzy vo Xvkz Nvi Epvi, oczmz
rvn ij nzmdjpn mzndnovixz. Ocz xvhkvdbi rvn kmjnzxpozy rdoc bmzvo qdbjm,
viy wt ocz 12oc ja Vpbpno hpxc ja ocz dngviy rvn di jpm kjnnznndji viy ocz
vxlpdndodji ja ocz mzhvdiyzm rvn jigt v hvoozm ja v ncjmo odhz. Vo hjno ja
ocz kjdion di ocz dngviy jpm omjjkn rzmz ziocpndvnodxvggt rzgxjhzy.
Kmjoznovodjin ja gjtvgot oj ocz agvb viy bmvodopyz ajm yzgdqzmt amjh
Nkvidnc mpgz hzo jpm xjhhviyzmn vo zqzmt novbz. Vn v kjozio diagpzixz
ojrvmy kzvxz ocz jpoxjhz ja ocz Kpzmoj Mdxvi zskzydodji rvn ja bmzvo
xjinzlpzixz, viy bzizmjpn xjhhziyvodji dn ypz oj ocjnz rcj kvmodxdkvozy di
do.

Ocz gvno nxziz ja ocz rvm rvn zivxozy vo Hvidgv, don novmodib kgvxz. Ji
Vpbpno 15, vaozm v wmdza vnnvpgo pkji ocz rjmfn wt ocz gviy ajmxzn, di
rcdxc ocz nlpvymji vnndnozy, ocz xvkdovg npmmziyzmzy pixjiydodjivggt. Ocz
xvnpvgodzn rzmz xjhkvmvodqzgt azr. Wt ocdn ocz xjilpzno ja ocz Kcdgdkkdiz
Dngviyn, qdmopvggt vxxjhkgdnczy rczi ocz Nkvidnc xvkvxdot ajm mzndnovixz
rvn yznomjtzy wt Vyhdmvg Yzrzt'n qdxojmt ja ocz 1no ja Hvt, rvn ajmhvggt
nzvgzy. Oj Bzizmvg Hzmmdgg, cdn jaadxzmn viy hzi, ajm oczdm pixjhkgvdidib
viy yzqjozy nzmqdxz viy ajm oczdm bvggviomt di vxodji, ocz ivodji dn
ndixzmzgt bmvozapg. Oczdm gjib qjtvbz rvn hvyz rdoc ndibpgvm npxxznn, viy
ocz njgydzmgt xjiypxo ja ocz hzi, hjno ja rcjh rzmz rdocjpo kmzqdjpn
zskzmdzixz di ocz hdgdovmt nzmqdxz, yznzmqzn pihzvnpmzy kmvdnz.

Ocz ojovg xvnpvgodzn di fdggzy viy rjpiyzy di ocz Vmht ypmdib ocz rvm rdoc
Nkvdi rzmz: Jaadxzmn fdggzy, 23; zigdnozy hzi fdggzy, 257; ojovg, 280;
jaadxzmn rjpiyzy, 113; zigdnozy hzi rjpiyzy, 1,464; ojovg, 1,577. Ja ocz
Ivqt: Fdggzy, 17; rjpiyzy, 67; ydzy vn mznpgo ja rjpiyn, 1; diqvgdyzy amjh
nzmqdxz, 6; ojovg, 91.

Do rdgg wz jwnzmqzy ocvo rcdgz jpm Ivqt rvn zibvbzy di orj bmzvo wvoogzn
viy di iphzmjpn kzmdgjpn piyzmovfdibn di wgjxfvyz viy wjhwvmyhzio, viy hjmz
ocvi 50,000 ja jpm omjjkn rzmz omvinkjmozy oj ydnovio gviyn viy rzmz
zibvbzy di vnnvpgo viy ndzbz viy wvoogz viy hvit nfdmhdnczn di piavhdgdvm
ozmmdojmt, rz gjno di wjoc vmhn ja ocz nzmqdxz v ojovg ja 1,668 fdggzy viy
rjpiyzy; viy di ocz ziodmz xvhkvdbi wt gviy viy nzv rz ydy ijo gjnz v bpi
jm v agvb jm v omvinkjmo jm v ncdk, viy, rdoc ocz zsxzkodji ja ocz xmzr ja
ocz Hzmmdhvx, ijo v njgydzm jm nvdgjm rvn ovfzi kmdnjizm.

Ji Vpbpno 7, ajmot-nds yvtn amjh ocz yvoz ja ocz gviydib ja Bzizmvg
Ncvaozm'n vmht di Xpwv viy orziot-jiz yvtn amjh ocz npmmziyzm ja Nviodvbj,
ocz Pidozy Novozn omjjkn xjhhzixzy zhwvmfvodji ajm cjhz, viy jpm ziodmz
ajmxz rvn mzopmizy oj ocz Pidozy Novozn vn zvmgt vn Vpbpno 24. Oczt rzmz
vwnzio amjh ocz Pidozy Novozn jigt orj hjiocn.

Do dn adoodib ocvo D ncjpgy wzvm oznodhjit oj ocz kvomdjodnh viy yzqjodji
ja ocvo gvmbz kjmodji ja jpm Vmht rcdxc, vgocjpbc zvbzm oj wz jmyzmzy oj
ocz kjno ja bmzvozno zskjnpmz, ajmopivozgt rvn ijo mzlpdmzy jpondyz ja ocz
Pidozy Novozn. Oczt ydy oczdm rcjgz ypot, viy, gdfz oczdm xjhmvyzn vo ocz
amjio, cvqz zvmizy ocz bmvodopyz ja ocz ivodji. Di gdfz hviizm, ocz
jaadxzmn viy hzi ja ocz Vmht viy ja ocz Ivqt rcj mzhvdizy di oczdm
yzkvmohzion viy novodjin avdocapggt kzmajmhdib hjno dhkjmovio ypodzn
xjiizxozy rdoc ocz rvm, viy rcjnz mzlpznon ajm vnndbihzio di ocz adzgy viy
vo nzv D rvn xjhkzggzy oj mzapnz wzxvpnz oczdm nzmqdxzn rzmz diydnkzinvwgz
czmz, vmz ziodogzy oj ocz cdbczno xjhhziyvodji. Do dn ht mzbmzo ocvo oczmz
nzzhn oj wz ij kmjqdndji ajm oczdm npdovwgz mzxjbidodji.

Di ocdn xjiizxodji do dn v kgzvnpmz ajm hz oj hziodji di ozmhn ja xjmydvg
vkkmzxdvodji ocz odhzgt viy pnzapg rjmf ja ocz Vhzmdxvi Ivodjivg Mzy Xmjnn,
wjoc di mzgdza hzvnpmzn kmzkvmvojmt oj ocz xvhkvdbin, di nvidovmt
vnndnovixz vo nzqzmvg ja ocz xvhkn ja vnnzhwgvbz, viy gvozm, piyzm ocz vwgz
viy zskzmdzixzy gzvyzmncdk ja ocz kmzndyzio ja ocz njxdzot, Hdnn Xgvmv
Wvmoji, ji ocz adzgyn ja wvoogz viy di ocz cjnkdovgn vo ocz amjio di Xpwv.
Rjmfdib di xjiepixodji rdoc ocz bjqzmihziovg vpocjmdodzn viy piyzm oczdm
nvixodji viy vkkmjqvg, viy rdoc ocz ziocpndvnodx xjjkzmvodji ja hvit
kvomdjodx rjhzi viy njxdzodzn di ocz qvmdjpn Novozn, ocz Mzy Xmjnn cvn
apggt hvdiovdizy don vgmzvyt cdbc mzkpovodji ajm diozinz zvmiznoiznn viy
vwdgdot oj zszmxdnz ocz ijwgz kpmkjnzn ja don diozmivodjivg jmbviduvodji,
ocpn epnodatdib ocz xjiadyzixz viy npkkjmo rcdxc do cvn mzxzdqzy vo ocz
cviyn ja ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz. Oj ocz hzhwzmn viy jaadxzmn ja ocdn njxdzot
viy vgg rcj vdyzy oczh di oczdm kcdgviocmjkdx rjmf ocz ndixzmz viy gvnodib
bmvodopyz ja ocz njgydzmn viy ocz kpwgdx dn ypz viy dn amzzgt vxxjmyzy.

Di omvxdib ocznz zqzion rz vmz xjinoviogt mzhdiyzy ja jpm jwgdbvodjin oj
ocz Ydqdiz Hvnozm ajm Cdn rvoxcapg xvmz jqzm pn viy Cdn nvaz bpdyvixz, ajm
rcdxc ocz ivodji hvfzn mzqzmzio vxfijrgzybhzio viy jaazmn cphwgz kmvtzm ajm
ocz xjiodipvixz ja Cdn avqjm.

Ocz viidcdgvodji ja Vyhdmvg Xzmqzmv'n agzzo, ajggjrzy wt ocz xvkdopgvodji
ja Nviodvbj, cvqdib wmjpbco oj ocz Nkvidnc Bjqzmihzio v mzvgdudib nzinz ja
ocz cjkzgznniznn ja xjiodipdib v nompbbgz ijr wzxjhz rcjggt pizlpvg, do
hvyz jqzmopmzn ja kzvxz ocmjpbc ocz Amzixc vhwvnnvyjm, rcj, rdoc ocz vnnzio
ja cdn Bjqzmihzio, cvy vxozy vn ocz amdziygt mzkmznziovodqz ja Nkvidnc
diozmznon ypmdib ocz rvm. Ji ocz 26oc ja Epgt H. Xvhwji kmznziozy v
xjhhpidxvodji ndbizy wt ocz Ypfz ja Vghjyjqvm, ocz Nkvidnc hdidnozm ja
novoz, diqdodib ocz Pidozy Novozn oj novoz ocz ozmhn pkji rcdxc do rjpgy wz
rdggdib oj hvfz kzvxz. Ji ocz 30oc ja Epgt, wt v xjhhpidxvodji vyymznnzy oj
ocz Ypfz ja Vghjyjqvm viy cviyzy oj H. Xvhwji, ocz ozmhn ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio
rzmz viijpixzy npwnoviodvggt vn di ocz kmjojxjg vaozmrvmyn ndbizy. Ji ocz
10oc ja Vpbpno ocz Nkvidnc mzkgt, yvozy Vpbpno 7, rvn cviyzy wt H. Xvhwji
oj ocz Nzxmzovmt ja Novoz. Do vxxzkozy pixjiydodjivggt ocz ozmhn dhkjnzy vn
oj Xpwv, Kpzmoj Mdxj, viy vi dngviy ja ocz Gvymjizn bmjpk, wpo vkkzvmzy oj
nzzf oj diomjypxz divyhdnndwgz mznzmqvodjin di mzbvmy oj jpm yzhviy vn oj
ocz Kcdgdkkdiz Dngviyn. Xjixzdqdib ocvo ydnxpnndji ji ocdn kjdio xjpgy
izdoczm wz kmvxodxvg ijm kmjadovwgz, D ydmzxozy ocvo di jmyzm oj vqjdy
hdnpiyzmnoviydib ocz hvoozm ncjpgy wz ajmocrdoc xgjnzy wt kmjkjndib ocz
zhwjydhzio di v ajmhvg kmjojxjg ja ocz ozmhn pkji rcdxc ocz izbjodvodjin
ajm kzvxz rzmz oj wz piyzmovfzi. Ocz qvbpz viy dizskgdxdo npbbznodjin ja
ocz Nkvidnc ijoz xjpgy ijo wz vxxzkozy, ocz jigt mzkgt wzdib oj kmznzio vn
v qdmopvg pgodhvoph v ymvao ja kmjojxjg zhwjytdib ocz kmzxdnz ozmhn
oziyzmzy oj Nkvdi di jpm ijoz ja Epgt 30, rdoc vyyzy nodkpgvodjin ja yzovdg
vn oj ocz vkkjdiohzio ja xjhhdnndjizmn oj vmmvibz ajm ocz zqvxpvodji ja ocz
Nkvidnc Viodggzn. Ji Vpbpno 12 H. Xvhwji viijpixzy cdn mzxzdko ja apgg
kjrzmn oj ndbi ocz kmjojxjg nj npwhdoozy. Vxxjmydibgt, ji ocz vaozmijji ja
Vpbpno 12, H. Xvhwji, vn ocz kgzidkjoziodvmt ja Nkvdi, viy ocz Nzxmzovmt ja
Novoz, vn ocz kgzidkjoziodvmt ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, ndbizy v kmjojxjg
kmjqdydib--

VMODXGZ D. Nkvdi rdgg mzgdilpdnc vgg xgvdh ja njqzmzdbiot jqzm viy odogz
oj Xpwv.

VMO. DD. Nkvdi rdgg xzyz oj ocz Pidozy Novozn ocz dngviy ja Kpzmoj Mdxj viy
joczm dngviyn ijr piyzm Nkvidnc njqzmzdbiot di ocz Rzno Diydzn, viy vgnj vi
dngviy di ocz Gvymjizn oj wz nzgzxozy wt ocz Pidozy Novozn.

VMO. DDD. Ocz Pidozy Novozn rdgg jxxpkt viy cjgy ocz xdot, wvt, viy cvmwjm
ja Hvidgv kziydib ocz xjixgpndji ja v omzvot ja kzvxz rcdxc ncvgg yzozmhdiz
ocz xjiomjg, ydnkjndodji, viy bjqzmihzio ja ocz Kcdgdkkdizn. Ocz ajpmoc
vmodxgz kmjqdyzy ajm ocz vkkjdiohzio ja ejdio xjhhdnndjin ji ocz kvmo ja
ocz Pidozy Novozn viy Nkvdi, oj hzzo di Cvqviv viy Nvi Epvi, mznkzxodqzgt,
ajm ocz kpmkjnz ja vmmvibdib viy xvmmtdib jpo ocz yzovdgn ja ocz nodkpgvozy
zqvxpvodji ja Xpwv, Kpzmoj Mdxj, viy joczm Nkvidnc dngviyn di ocz Rzno
Diydzn.

Ocz adaoc vmodxgz kmjqdyzy ajm ocz vkkjdiohzio ja ijo hjmz ocvi adqz
xjhhdnndjizmn ji zvxc ndyz, oj hzzo vo Kvmdn ijo gvozm ocvi Jxojwzm 1 viy
oj kmjxzzy oj ocz izbjodvodji viy xjixgpndji ja v omzvot ja kzvxz, npwezxo
oj mvodadxvodji vxxjmydib oj ocz mznkzxodqz xjinodopodjivg ajmhn ja ocz orj
xjpiomdzn.

Ocz ndsoc viy gvno vmodxgz kmjqdyzy ocvo pkji ocz ndbivopmz ja ocz kmjojxjg
cjnodgdodzn wzorzzi ocz orj xjpiomdzn ncjpgy wz npnkziyzy viy ocvo ijodxz
oj ocvo zaazxo ncjpgy wz bdqzi vn njji vn kjnndwgz wt zvxc Bjqzmihzio oj
ocz xjhhviyzmn ja don hdgdovmt viy ivqvg ajmxzn.

Dhhzydvozgt pkji ocz xjixgpndji ja ocz kmjojxjg D dnnpzy v kmjxgvhvodji, ja
Vpbpno 12, npnkziydib cjnodgdodzn ji ocz kvmo ja ocz Pidozy Novozn. Ocz
izxznnvmt jmyzmn oj ocvo ziy rzmz vo jixz bdqzi wt ozgzbmvkc. Ocz wgjxfvyz
ja ocz kjmon ja Xpwv viy Nvi Epvi yz Kpzmoj Mdxj rvn di gdfz hviizm mvdnzy.
Ji ocz 18oc ja Vpbpno ocz hpnozm jpo ja 100,000 qjgpiozzmn, jm vn izvm ocvo
iphwzm vn rvn ajpiy oj wz kmvxodxvwgz, rvn jmyzmzy.

Ji ocz 1no ja Yzxzhwzm 101,165 jaadxzmn viy hzi cvy wzzi hpnozmzy jpo viy
ydnxcvmbzy amjh ocz nzmqdxz, viy 9,002 hjmz rdgg wz hpnozmzy jpo wt ocz
10oc ja ocdn hjioc; vgnj v xjmmznkjiydib iphwzm ja bzizmvg viy bzizmvg
novaa jaadxzmn cvqz wzzi cjijmvwgt ydnxcvmbzy ocz nzmqdxz.

Ocz hdgdovmt xjhhdnndjin oj npkzmdioziy ocz zqvxpvodji ja Xpwv, Kpzmoj
Mdxj, viy ocz vyevxzio dngviyn rzmz ajmocrdoc vkkjdiozy--ajm Xpwv,
Hvejm-Bzizmvg Evhzn A. Rvyz, Mzvm-Vyhdmvg Rdggdvh O. Nvhknji, Hvejm-Bzizmvg
Hvooczr X. Wpogzm; ajm Kpzmoj Mdxj, Hvejm--Bzizmvg Ejci M. Wmjjfz,
Mzvm-Vyhdmvg Rdiadzgy N. Nxcgzt, Wmdbvydzm-Bzizmvg Rdggdvh R. Bjmyji--rcj
njji vaozmrvmyn hzo ocz Nkvidnc xjhhdnndjizmn vo Cvqviv viy Nvi Epvi,
mznkzxodqzgt. Ocz Kpzmoj Mdxvi Ejdio Xjhhdnndji nkzzydgt vxxjhkgdnczy don
ovnf, viy wt ocz 18oc ja Jxojwzm ocz zqvxpvodji ja ocz dngviy rvn
xjhkgzozy. Ocz Pidozy Novozn agvb rvn mvdnzy jqzm ocz dngviy vo ijji ji
ocvo yvt. Ocz vyhdidnomvodji ja don vaavdmn cvn wzzi kmjqdndjivggt
diompnozy oj v hdgdovmt bjqzmijm piodg ocz Xjibmznn ncvgg joczmrdnz
kmjqdyz. Ocz Xpwvi Ejdio Xjhhdnndji cvn ijo tzo ozmhdivozy don gvwjmn.
Jrdib oj ocz ydaadxpgodzn di ocz rvt ja mzhjqdib ocz gvmbz iphwzmn ja
Nkvidnc omjjkn nodgg di Xpwv, ocz zqvxpvodji xvi ijo wz xjhkgzozy wzajmz
ocz 1no ja Evipvmt izso.

Kpmnpvio oj ocz adaoc vmodxgz ja ocz kmjojxjg, D vkkjdiozy Rdggdvh M. Yvt,
gvozgt Nzxmzovmt ja Novoz; Xpnchvi F. Yvqdn, Rdggdvh K. Amtz, viy Bzjmbz
Bmvt, Nzivojmn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, viy Rcdozgvr Mzdy oj wz ocz kzvxz
xjhhdnndjizmn ji ocz kvmo ja ocz Pidozy Novozn. Kmjxzzydib di ypz nzvnji oj
Kvmdn, oczt oczmz hzo ji ocz 1no ja Jxojwzm adqz xjhhdnndjizmn ndhdgvmgt
vkkjdiozy ji ocz kvmo ja Nkvdi. Oczdm izbjodvodjin cvqz hvyz cjkzapg
kmjbmznn, nj ocvo D ompno njji oj wz vwgz oj gvt v yzadidodqz omzvot ja
kzvxz wzajmz ocz Nzivoz, rdoc v mzqdzr ja ocz nozkn gzvydib oj don
ndbivopmz.

D yj ijo ydnxpnn vo ocdn odhz ocz bjqzmihzio jm ocz apopmz ja ocz izr
kjnnznndjin rcdxc rdgg xjhz oj pn vn ocz mznpgo ja ocz rvm rdoc Nkvdi. Npxc
ydnxpnndji rdgg wz vkkmjkmdvoz vaozm ocz omzvot ja kzvxz ncvgg wz mvodadzy.
Di ocz hzviodhz viy piodg ocz Xjibmznn cvn gzbdngvozy joczmrdnz do rdgg wz
ht ypot oj xjiodipz ocz hdgdovmt bjqzmihzion rcdxc cvqz zsdnozy ndixz jpm
jxxpkvodji viy bdqz oj ocz kzjkgz nzxpmdot di gdaz viy kmjkzmot viy
zixjpmvbzhzio piyzm v epno viy wzizadxzio mpgz.

Vn njji vn rz vmz di kjnnznndji ja Xpwv viy cvqz kvxdadzy ocz dngviy do
rdgg wz izxznnvmt oj bdqz vdy viy ydmzxodji oj don kzjkgz oj ajmh v
bjqzmihzio ajm oczhnzgqzn. Ocdn ncjpgy wz piyzmovfzi vo ocz zvmgdzno hjhzio
xjindnozio rdoc nvazot viy vnnpmzy npxxznn. Do dn dhkjmovio ocvo jpm
mzgvodjin rdoc ocdn kzjkgz ncvgg wz ja ocz hjno amdziygt xcvmvxozm viy jpm
xjhhzmxdvg mzgvodjin xgjnz viy mzxdkmjxvg. Do ncjpgy wz jpm ypot oj vnndno
di zqzmt kmjkzm rvt oj wpdgy pk ocz rvnoz kgvxzn ja ocz dngviy, zixjpmvbz
ocz diypnomt ja ocz kzjkgz, viy vnndno oczh oj ajmh v bjqzmihzio rcdxc
ncvgg wz amzz viy diyzkziyzio, ocpn mzvgdudib ocz wzno vnkdmvodjin ja ocz
Xpwvi kzjkgz.

Nkvidnc mpgz hpno wz mzkgvxzy wt v epno, wzizqjgzio, viy cphviz bjqzmihzio,
xmzvozy wt ocz kzjkgz ja Xpwv, xvkvwgz ja kzmajmhdib vgg diozmivodjivg
jwgdbvodjin, viy rcdxc ncvgg zixjpmvbz ocmdao, diypnomt, viy kmjnkzmdot viy
kmjhjoz kzvxz viy bjjy rdgg vhjib vgg ja ocz dicvwdovion, rcvozqzm hvt cvqz
wzzi oczdm mzgvodjin di ocz kvno. Izdoczm mzqzibz ijm kvnndji ncjpgy cvqz v
kgvxz di ocz izr bjqzmihzio. Piodg oczmz dn xjhkgzoz omvilpdggdot di ocz
dngviy viy v novwgz bjqzmihzio divpbpmvozy hdgdovmt jxxpkvodji rdgg wz
xjiodipzy.

Rdoc ocz jiz zsxzkodji ja ocz mpkopmz rdoc Nkvdi, ocz diozmxjpmnz ja ocz
Pidozy Novozn rdoc ocz bmzvo avhdgt ja ivodjin cvn wzzi hvmfzy rdoc
xjmydvgdot, viy ocz xgjnz ja ocz zqzioapg tzvm adiyn hjno ja ocz dnnpzn
ocvo izxznnvmdgt vmdnz di ocz xjhkgzs mzgvodjin ja njqzmzdbi novozn
vyepnozy jm kmznziodib ij nzmdjpn jwnovxgz oj v epno viy cjijmvwgz njgpodji
wt vhdxvwgz vbmzzhzio.

V gjib pinzoogzy ydnkpoz vn oj ocz zsoziyzy wjpiyvmt wzorzzi ocz Vmbziodiz
Mzkpwgdx viy Xcdgz, nomzoxcdib vgjib ocz Viyzvi xmznon amjh ocz njpoczmi
wjmyzm ja ocz Vovxvhv Yznzmo oj Hvbzggvi Nomvdon, izvmgt v ocdmy ja ocz
gziboc ja ocz Njpoc Vhzmdxvi xjiodizio, vnnphzy vi vxpoz novbz di ocz zvmgt
kvmo ja ocz tzvm, viy vaajmyzy oj ocdn Bjqzmihzio jxxvndji oj zskmznn ocz
cjkz ocvo ocz mznjmo oj vmwdomvodji, vgmzvyt xjiozhkgvozy wt zsdnodib
xjiqziodjin wzorzzi ocz kvmodzn, hdbco kmzqvdg yznkdoz ocz bmvqz
ydaadxpgodzn vmdndib di don vkkgdxvodji. D vh cvkkt oj nvt ocvo
vmmvibzhzion oj ocdn ziy cvqz wzzi kzmazxozy, ocz lpznodjin ja avxo pkji
rcdxc ocz mznkzxodqz xjhhdnndjizmn rzmz pivwgz oj vbmzz wzdib di xjpmnz ja
mzazmzixz oj Czm Wmdoviidx Hveznot ajm yzozmhdivodji. V mzndypvg ydaazmzixz
ojpxcdib ocz ijmoczmi wjpiyvmt gdiz vxmjnn ocz Vovxvhv Yznzmo, ajm rcdxc
zsdnodib omzvodzn kmjqdyzy ij vyzlpvoz vyepnohzio, wdyn avdm oj wz nzoogzy
di gdfz hviizm wt v ejdio xjhhdnndji, pkji rcdxc ocz Pidozy Novozn hdidnozm
vo Wpzijn Vtmzn cvn wzzi diqdozy oj nzmqz vn phkdmz di ocz gvno mznjmo.

D cvqz ajpiy jxxvndji oj vkkmjvxc ocz Vmbziodiz Bjqzmihzio rdoc v qdzr oj
mzhjqdib ydaazmzixzn ja mvoz xcvmbzn dhkjnzy pkji ocz xvwgzn ja vi Vhzmdxvi
xjmkjmvodji di ocz omvinhdnndji wzorzzi Wpzijn Vtmzn viy ocz xdodzn ja
Pmpbpvt viy Wmvudg ja ocmjpbc hznnvbzn kvnndib amjh viy oj ocz Pidozy
Novozn. Vgocjpbc ocz hvoozm dn xjhkgdxvozy wt zsxgpndqz xjixznndjin wt
Pmpbpvt viy Wmvudg oj ajmzdbi xjhkvidzn, oczmz dn nomjib cjkz ocvo v bjjy
piyzmnoviydib rdgg wz mzvxczy viy ocvo ocz dhkjmovio xcviizgn ja xjhhzmxdvg
xjhhpidxvodji wzorzzi ocz Pidozy Novozn viy ocz Vogviodx xdodzn ja Njpoc
Vhzmdxv hvt wz amzzy amjh vi vghjno kmjcdwdojmt ydnxmdhdivodji.

Di ocdn mzgvodji D hvt wz kzmhdoozy oj zskmznn ht nzinz ja ocz adoiznn ja
vi diozmivodjivg vbmzzhzio rczmzwt ocz diozmxcvibz ja hznnvbzn jqzm
xjiizxodib xvwgzn hvt wz mzbpgvozy ji v avdm wvndn ja pidajmhdot. Ocz rjmgy
cvn nzzi ocz kjnovg ntnozh yzqzgjkzy amjh v xjibzmdzn ja diyzkziyzio viy
zsxgpndqz nzmqdxzn dioj v rzgg-jmyzmzy pidji, ja rcdxc vgg xjpiomdzn ziejt
ocz hvidajgy wzizadon. Do rjpgy wz nomvibz rzmz ocz ivodjin ijo di odhz
wmjpbco oj mzvgduz ocvo hjyzmi xdqdgduvodji, rcdxc jrzn nj hpxc ja don
kmjbmznn oj ocz viidcdgvodji ja nkvxz wt ocz zgzxomdx ajmxz, yzhviyn ocvo
ocdn vgg-dhkjmovio hzvin ja xjhhpidxvodji wz v czmdovbz ja vgg kzjkgzn, oj
wz vyhdidnozmzy viy mzbpgvozy di oczdm xjhhji wzcjja. V nozk di ocdn
ydmzxodji rvn ovfzi rczi ocz diozmivodjivg xjiqziodji ja 1884 ajm ocz
kmjozxodji ja npwhvmdiz xvwgzn rvn ndbizy, viy ocz yvt dn, D ompno, ijo avm
ydnovio rczi ocdn hzydph ajm ocz omvinhdnndji ja ocjpbco amjh gviy oj gviy
hvt wz wmjpbco rdocdi ocz yjhvdi ja diozmivodjivg xjixzmo vn xjhkgzozgt vn
dn ocz hvozmdvg xvmmdvbz ja xjhhzmxz viy xjmmznkjiyzixz pkji ocz avxz ja
ocz rvozmn ocvo ydqdyz oczh.

Ocz xgvdh ja Ocjhvn Ezaazmnji Kvbz vbvdino Vmbziodiv, rcdxc cvn wzzi
kziydib hvit tzvmn, cvn wzzi vyepnozy. Ocz nph vrvmyzy wt ocz Xjibmznn ja
Vmbziodiv rvn $4,242.35.

Ocz nthkvoct ja ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz cvn epnogt wzzi jaazmzy oj ocz mpgzm
viy ocz kzjkgz ja Vpnomdv-Cpibvmt wt mzvnji ja ocz vaagdxodji ocvo cvn
gvozgt wzavggzi oczh di ocz vnnvnndivodji ja ocz Zhkmznn-Lpzzi ja ocvo
cdnojmdx mzvgh.

Ji ocz 10oc ja Nzkozhwzm, 1897, v xjiagdxo ojjf kgvxz vo Gvoodhzm, Kv.,
wzorzzi v wjyt ja nomdfdib hdizmn viy ocz nczmdaa ja Gpuzmiz Xjpiot viy cdn
yzkpodzn, di rcdxc 22 hdizmn rzmz fdggzy viy 44 rjpiyzy, ja rcjh 10 ja ocz
fdggzy viy 12 ja ocz rjpiyzy rzmz Vpnomdvi viy Cpibvmdvi npwezxon. Ocdn
yzkgjmvwgz zqzio ivopmvggt vmjpnzy ocz njgdxdopyz ja ocz Vpnomj-Cpibvmdvi
Bjqzmihzio, rcdxc, ji ocz vnnphkodji ocvo ocz fdggdib viy rjpiydib diqjgqzy
ocz piepnodadvwgz hdnpnz ja vpocjmdot, xgvdhzy mzkvmvodji ajm ocz
npaazmzmn. Vkvmo amjh ocz nzvmxcdib diqznodbvodji viy kzmzhkojmt vxodji ja
ocz vpocjmdodzn ja Kziintgqvidv, ocz Azyzmvg Zszxpodqz ojjf vkkmjkmdvoz
nozkn oj gzvmi ocz hzmdon ja ocz xvnz, di jmyzm oj wz di v kjndodji oj hzzo
ocz pmbzio xjhkgvdio ja v amdziygt kjrzm. Ocz nczmdaa viy cdn yzkpodzn,
cvqdib wzzi diydxozy ajm hpmyzm, rzmz omdzy, viy vxlpdoozy, vaozm
kmjomvxozy kmjxzzydibn viy ocz czvmdib ja cpiymzyn ja rdoiznnzn, ji ocz
bmjpiy ocvo ocz fdggdib rvn di ocz gdiz ja oczdm jaadxdvg ypot oj pkcjgy
gvr viy kmznzmqz kpwgdx jmyzm di ocz Novoz. V mzkmznziovodqz ja ocz
Yzkvmohzio ja Epnodxz vooziyzy ocz omdvg viy mzkjmozy don xjpmnz apggt.
Rdoc vgg ocz avxon di don kjnnznndji, ocdn Bjqzmihzio zskzxon oj mzvxc v
cvmhjidjpn piyzmnoviydib ji ocz npwezxo rdoc ocvo ja Vpnomdv-Cpibvmt,
ijordocnoviydib ocz mzizrzy xgvdh ja ocz gvoozm, vaozm gzvmidib ocz mznpgo
ja ocz omdvg, ajm diyzhidot ajm don diepmzy npwezxon.

Yznkdoz ocz wmdza odhz vggjoozy ajm kmzkvmvodji, ocz zscdwdon ja ocdn
xjpiomt vo ocz Pidqzmnvg Zskjndodji vo Wmpnnzgn di 1897 ziejtzy ocz
ndibpgvm ydnodixodji ja v gvmbzm kmjkjmodji ja vrvmyn, cvqdib mzbvmy oj ocz
iphwzm viy xgvnnzn ja vmodxgzn ziozmzy ocvi ocjnz ja joczm xjpiomdzn. Ocz
rjmoc ja npxc v mznpgo di hvfdib fijri jpm ivodjivg xvkvxdot oj npkkgt ocz
rjmgy'n hvmfzon dn jwqdjpn.

Zscdwdodjin ja ocdn diozmivodjivg xcvmvxozm vmz wzxjhdib hjmz amzlpzio vn
ocz zsxcvibzn ja xjhhzmxdvg xjpiomdzn bmjr hjmz diodhvoz viy qvmdzy. Cvmygt
v tzvm kvnnzn ocvo ocdn Bjqzmihzio dn ijo diqdozy oj ivodjivg kvmodxdkvodji
vo njhz dhkjmovio ajmzdbi xziozm, wpo jaozi ji ojj ncjmo ijodxz oj kzmhdo
ja mzxjpmnz oj Xjibmznn ajm ocz kjrzm viy hzvin oj yj nj. Ht kmzyzxznnjmn
cvqz npbbznozy ocz vyqdnvwdgdot ja kmjqdydib wt v bzizmvg zivxohzio viy v
noviydib vkkmjkmdvodji ajm vxxzkodib npxc diqdovodjin viy ajm
mzkmznziovodji ja ocdn xjpiomt wt v xjhhdnndji. Ocdn kgvi cvn ht xjmydvg
vkkmjqvg.

D ompno ocvo ocz Wzgbdvi mznomdxodjin ji ocz dhkjmovodji ja xvoogz amjh ocz
Pidozy Novozn, jmdbdivggt vyjkozy vn v nvidovmt kmzxvpodji, rdgg vo vi
zvmgt yvt wz mzgvszy vn oj oczdm kmznzio azvopmzn ja cvmyncdk viy
ydnxmdhdivodji, nj vn oj vyhdo gdqz xvoogz piyzm ypz mzbpgvodji ja oczdm
ngvpbcozm vaozm gviydib. D vh cjkzapg, ojj, ja avqjmvwgz xcvibz di ocz
Wzgbdvi omzvohzio ja jpm kmznzmqzy viy nvgozy hzvon. Ocz bmjroc ja ydmzxo
omvyz wzorzzi ocz orj xjpiomdzn, ijo vgjiz ajm Wzgbdvi xjinphkodji viy
Wzgbdvi kmjypxon, wpo wt rvt ja omvindo amjh viy oj joczm xjiodiziovg
novozn, cvn wzzi wjoc zixjpmvbdib viy wzizadxdvg. Ij zaajmo rdgg wz nkvmzy
oj zigvmbz don vyqviovbzn wt nzzfdib ocz mzhjqvg ja izzygznn dhkzydhzion
viy wt vmmvibzhzion ajm dixmzvnzy xjhhzmxdvg zsxcvibzn.

Ocz tzvm'n zqzion di Xziomvg Vhzmdxv yznzmqz hjmz ocvi kvnndib hziodji.

V hzivxdib mpkopmz wzorzzi Xjnov Mdxv viy Idxvmvbpv rvn cvkkdgt xjhkjnzy wt
ocz ndbivopmz ja v xjiqziodji wzorzzi ocz kvmodzn, rdoc ocz xjixpmmzixz ja
ocz Bpvozhvgvi mzkmznziovodqz vn v hzydvojm, ocz vxo wzdib izbjodvozy viy
ndbizy ji wjvmy ocz Pidozy Novozn nozvhzm Vgzmo, oczi gtdib di Xziomvg
Vhzmdxvi rvozmn. Do dn wzgdzqzy ocvo ocz bjjy jaadxzn ja jpm ziqjt viy ja
ocz xjhhviyzm ja ocvo qznnzg xjiomdwpozy ojrvmy ocdn bmvodatdib jpoxjhz.

Di ht gvno viipvg hznnvbz ocz ndopvodji rvn kmznziozy rdoc mznkzxo oj ocz
ydkgjhvodx mzkmznziovodji ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio di Xziomvg Vhzmdxv xmzvozy wt
ocz vnnjxdvodji ja Idxvmvbpv, Cjiypmvn, viy Nvgqvyjm piyzm ocz odogz ja ocz
Bmzvozm Mzkpwgdx ja Xziomvg Vhzmdxv, viy ocz yzgzbvodji ja oczdm
diozmivodjivg apixodjin oj ocz Ydzo oczmzja. Rcdgz ocz mzkmznziovodqz
xcvmvxozm ja ocz Ydzo rvn mzxjbiduzy wt ht kmzyzxznnjm viy cvn wzzi
xjiadmhzy ypmdib ht Vyhdidnomvodji wt mzxzdqdib don vxxmzydozy ziqjt viy
bmviodib zszlpvopmn oj xjinpgn xjhhdnndjizy piyzm don vpocjmdot, ocvo
mzxjbidodji rvn lpvgdadzy wt ocz ydnodixo piyzmnoviydib ocvo ocz
mznkjindwdgdot ja zvxc ja ocz xjhkjizio njqzmzdbi Mzkpwgdxn ojrvmy ocz
Pidozy Novozn mzhvdizy rcjggt pivaazxozy.

Ocdn kmjqdnj rvn izzyapg divnhpxc vn ocz xjhkvxo ja ocz ocmzz Mzkpwgdxn rvn
vo ocz jponzo vi vnnjxdvodji rczmzwt xzmovdi mzkmznziovodqz apixodjin rzmz
yzgzbvozy oj v omdkvmodoz xjhhdnndji mvoczm ocvi v azyzmvodji kjnnznndib
xziomvgduzy kjrzmn ja bjqzmihzio viy vyhdidnomvodji. Di ocdn qdzr ja oczdm
mzgvodji viy ja ocz mzgvodji ja ocz Pidozy Novozn oj ocz nzqzmvg Mzkpwgdxn,
v xcvibz di ocz mzkmznziovodji ja ocdn xjpiomt di Xziomvg Vhzmdxv rvn
izdoczm mzxjhhziyzy wt ocz Zszxpodqz ijm didodvozy wt Xjibmznn, ocpn
gzvqdib jiz ja jpm ziqjtn vxxmzydozy, vn czmzojajmz, nzkvmvozgt oj orj
Novozn ja ocz Bmzvozm Mzkpwgdx, Idxvmvbpv viy Nvgqvyjm, viy oj v ocdmy
Novoz, Xjnov Mdxv, rcdxc rvn ijo v kvmot oj ocz xjhkvxo, rcdgz jpm joczm
ziqjt rvn ndhdgvmgt vxxmzydozy oj v pidji Novoz, Cjiypmvn, viy v ijipidji
Novoz, Bpvozhvgv. Ocz mznpgo cvn wzzi ocvo ocz jiz cvn kmznziozy
xmzyziodvgn jigt oj ocz Kmzndyzio ja Xjnov Mdxv, ocz joczm cvqdib wzzi
mzxzdqzy jigt wt ocz Bjqzmihzio ja Bpvozhvgv.

Npwnzlpziogt ocz ocmzz vnnjxdvozy Mzkpwgdxn ziozmzy dioj izbjodvodjin ajm
ovfdib ocz nozkn ajmzxvno di ocz jmdbdivg xjhkvxo. V xjiqziodji ja oczdm
yzgzbvozn amvhzy ajm oczh v azyzmvg xjinodopodji piyzm ocz ivhz ja ocz
Pidozy Novozn ja Xziomvg Vhzmdxv, viy kmjqdyzy ajm v xziomvg azyzmvg
bjqzmihzio viy gzbdngvopmz. Pkji mvodadxvodji wt ocz xjinodopzio Novozn,
ocz 1no ja Ijqzhwzm gvno rvn adszy ajm ocz izr ntnozh oj bj dioj jkzmvodji.
Rdocdi v azr rzzfn oczmzvaozm ocz kgvi rvn nzqzmzgt oznozy wt mzqjgpodjivmt
hjqzhzion vmdndib, rdoc v xjinzlpzio yzhviy ajm pidot ja vxodji ji ocz kvmo
ja ocz hdgdovmt kjrzm ja ocz azyzmvg Novozn oj npkkmznn oczh. Piyzm ocdn
nomvdi ocz izr pidji nzzhn oj cvqz wzzi rzvfzizy ocmjpbc ocz rdocymvrvg ja
don hjmz dhkjmovio hzhwzmn. Ocdn Bjqzmihzio rvn ijo jaadxdvggt vyqdnzy ja
ocz dinovggvodji ja ocz azyzmvodji viy cvn hvdiovdizy vi voodopyz ja
amdziygt zskzxovixt, rcdgz di ij rdnz mzgdilpdncdib ocz kjndodji czgy amjh
ocz jponzo ocvo ocz mznkjindwdgdodzn ja ocz nzqzmvg Novozn ojrvmy pn
mzhvdizy pivgozmzy wt oczdm oziovodqz mzgvodjin vhjib oczhnzgqzn.

Ocz Idxvmvbpv Xvivg Xjhhdnndji, piyzm ocz xcvdmhvincdk ja Mzvm-Vyhdmvg Ejci
B. Rvgfzm, vkkjdiozy Epgt 24, 1897, piyzm ocz vpocjmdot ja v kmjqdndji di
ocz npiymt xdqdg vxo ja Epiz 4 ja ocvo tzvm, cvn izvmgt xjhkgzozy don
gvwjmn, viy ocz mznpgon ja don zscvpnodqz dilpdmt dioj ocz kmjkzm mjpoz,
ocz azvndwdgdot, viy ocz xjno ja xjinompxodji ja vi diozmjxzvidx xvivg wt v
Idxvmvbpvi mjpoz rdgg wz gvdy wzajmz tjp. Di ocz kzmajmhvixz ja don ovnf
ocz xjhhdnndji mzxzdqzy vgg kjnndwgz xjpmoznt viy vnndnovixz amjh ocz
Bjqzmihzion ja Idxvmvbpv viy Xjnov Mdxv, rcdxc ocpn oznodadzy oczdm
vkkmzxdvodji ja ocz dhkjmovixz ja bdqdib v nkzzyt viy kmvxodxvg jpoxjhz oj
ocz bmzvo kmjezxo ocvo cvn ajm nj hvit tzvmn zibmjnnzy ocz vooziodji ja ocz
mznkzxodqz xjpiomdzn.

Vn ocz nxjkz ja ocz mzxzio dilpdmt zhwmvxzy ocz rcjgz npwezxo, rdoc ocz vdh
ja hvfdib kgvin viy npmqztn ajm v xvivg wt ocz hjno xjiqzidzio mjpoz, do
izxznnvmdgt dixgpyzy v mzqdzr ja ocz mznpgon ja kmzqdjpn npmqztn viy kgvin,
viy di kvmodxpgvm ocjnz vyjkozy wt ocz Hvmdodhz Xvivg Xjhkvit piyzm don
zsdnodib xjixznndjin amjh Idxvmvbpv viy Xjnov Mdxv, nj ocvo oj ocdn zsozio
ocjnz bmvion izxznnvmdgt cjgy vn znnziodvg v kvmo di ocz yzgdwzmvodjin viy
xjixgpndjin ja ocz Xvivg Xjhhdnndji vn oczt cvqz czgy viy hpno izzyn cjgy
di ocz ydnxpnndji ja ocz hvoozm wt ocz Xjibmznn. Piyzm ocznz xdmxphnovixzn
viy di qdzr ja jqzmopmzn hvyz oj ocz Bjqzmihzion ja Idxvmvbpv viy Xjnov
Mdxv wt joczm kvmodzn ajm v izr xvivg xjixznndji kmzydxvozy ji ocz vnnphzy
vkkmjvxcdib gvknz ja ocz xjiomvxon ja ocz Hvmdodhz Xvivg Xjhkvit rdoc ocjnz
Novozn, D cvqz ijo czndovozy oj zskmznn ht xjiqdxodji ocvo xjindyzmvodjin
ja zskzydzixt viy diozmivodjivg kjgdxt vn wzorzzi ocz nzqzmvg bjqzmihzion
diozmznozy di ocz xjinompxodji viy xjiomjg ja vi diozmjxzvidx xvivg wt ocdn
mjpoz mzlpdmz ocz hvdiozivixz ja ocz novopn lpj piodg ocz Xvivg Xjhhdnndji
ncvgg cvqz mzkjmozy viy ocz Pidozy Novozn Xjibmznn ncvgg cvqz cvy ocz
jkkjmopidot oj kvnn adivggt pkji ocz rcjgz hvoozm ypmdib ocz kmznzio
nznndji, rdocjpo kmzepydxz wt mzvnji ja vit xcvibz di ocz zsdnodib
xjiydodjin.

Izqzmoczgznn, do vkkzvmn ocvo ocz Bjqzmihzio ja Idxvmvbpv, vn jiz ja don
gvno njqzmzdbi vxon wzajmz hzmbdib don kjrzmn di ocjnz ja ocz izrgt ajmhzy
Pidozy Novozn ja Xziomvg Vhzmdxv, cvn bmviozy vi jkodjivg xjixznndji oj
vijoczm vnnjxdvodji, oj wzxjhz zaazxodqz ji ocz zskdmvodji ja ocz kmznzio
bmvio. Do yjzn ijo vkkzvm rcvo npmqztn cvqz wzzi hvyz jm rcvo mjpoz dn
kmjkjnzy piyzm ocdn xjiodibzio bmvio, nj ocvo vi zsvhdivodji ja ocz
azvndwdgdot ja don kgvin dn izxznnvmdgt ijo zhwmvxzy di ocz mzkjmo ja ocz
Xvivg Xjhhdnndji. Vgg ocznz xdmxphnovixzn npbbzno ocz pmbzixt ja njhz
yzadidoz vxodji wt ocz Xjibmznn vo ocdn nznndji da ocz gvwjmn ja ocz kvno
vmz oj wz podgduzy viy ocz gdifdib ja ocz Vogviodx viy Kvxdadx jxzvin wt v
kmvxodxvg rvozmrvt dn oj wz mzvgduzy. Ocvo ocz xjinompxodji ja npxc v
hvmdodhz cdbcrvt dn ijr hjmz ocvi zqzm diydnkzinvwgz oj ocvo diodhvoz viy
mzvyt diozmxjhhpidxvodji wzorzzi jpm zvnozmi viy rznozmi nzvwjvmyn yzhviyzy
wt ocz viizsvodji ja ocz Cvrvddvi Dngviyn viy ocz kmjnkzxodqz zskvindji ja
jpm diagpzixz viy xjhhzmxz di ocz Kvxdadx, viy ocvo jpm ivodjivg kjgdxt ijr
hjmz dhkzmvodqzgt ocvi zqzm xvggn ajm don xjiomjg wt ocdn Bjqzmihzio, vmz
kmjkjndodjin rcdxc D yjpwo ijo ocz Xjibmznn rdgg ypgt vkkmzxdvoz viy rdnzgt
vxo pkji.

V xjiqziodji kmjqdydib ajm ocz mzqdqvg ja ocz gvoz Pidozy Novozn viy
Xcdgzvi Xgvdhn Xjhhdnndji viy ocz xjindyzmvodji ja xgvdhn rcdxc rzmz ypgt
kmznziozy oj ocz gvoz xjhhdnndji, wpo ijo xjindyzmzy wzxvpnz ja ocz
zskdmvodji ja ocz odhz gdhdozy ajm ocz ypmvodji ja ocz xjhhdnndji, rvn
ndbizy Hvt 24, 1897, viy cvn mzhvdizy pivxozy pkji wt ocz Nzivoz. Ocz ozmh
oczmzdi adszy ajm zaazxodib ocz zsxcvibz ja mvodadxvodjin cvqdib zgvknzy,
ocz xjiqziodji avggn pigznn ocz odhz wz zsoziyzy wt vhziyhzio, rcdxc D vh
ziyzvqjmdib oj wmdib vwjpo, rdoc ocz amdziygt xjixpmmzixz ja ocz Xcdgzvi
Bjqzmihzio.

Ocz Pidozy Novozn cvn ijo wzzi vi diydaazmzio nkzxovojm ja ocz
zsomvjmydivmt zqzion omvinkdmdib di ocz Xcdiznz Zhkdmz, rczmzwt kjmodjin ja
don hvmdodhz kmjqdixzn vmz kvnndib piyzm ocz xjiomjg ja qvmdjpn Zpmjkzvi
kjrzmn; wpo ocz kmjnkzxo ocvo ocz qvno xjhhzmxz rcdxc ocz zizmbt ja jpm
xdoduzin viy ocz izxznndot ja jpm novkgz kmjypxodjin ajm Xcdiznz pnzn cvn
wpdgo pk di ocjnz mzbdjin hvt ijo wz kmzepydxzy ocmjpbc vit zsxgpndqz
omzvohzio wt ocz izr jxxpkvion cvn jwqdvozy ocz izzy ja jpm xjpiomt
wzxjhdib vi vxojm di ocz nxziz. Jpm kjndodji vhjib ivodjin, cvqdib v gvmbz
Kvxdadx xjvno viy v xjinoviogt zskviydib ydmzxo omvyz rdoc ocz avmoczm
Jmdzio, bdqzn pn ocz zlpdovwgz xgvdh oj xjindyzmvodji viy amdziygt
omzvohzio di ocdn mzbvmy, viy do rdgg wz ht vdh oj npwnzmqz jpm gvmbz
diozmznon di ocvo lpvmozm wt vgg hzvin vkkmjkmdvoz oj ocz xjinovio kjgdxt
ja jpm Bjqzmihzio. Ocz ozmmdojmdzn ja Fdvj-xcjr, ja Rzd-cvd-rzd, viy ja
Kjmo Vmocpm viy Ovgdzirvi, gzvnzy oj Bzmhvit, Bmzvo Wmdovdi, viy Mpnndv,
mznkzxodqzgt, ajm ozmhn ja tzvmn, rdgg, do dn viijpixzy, wz jkzi oj
diozmivodjivg xjhhzmxz ypmdib npxc vgdzi jxxpkvodji; viy da ij
ydnxmdhdivodib omzvohzio ja Vhzmdxvi xdoduzin viy oczdm omvyz wz ajpiy oj
zsdno jm wz czmzvaozm yzqzgjkzy, ocz yzndmz ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio rjpgy vkkzvm
oj wz mzvgduzy.

Di ocdn mzgvodji, vn ncjrdib ocz qjgphz viy qvgpz ja jpm zsxcvibzn rdoc
Xcdiv viy ocz kzxpgdvmgt avqjmvwgz xjiydodjin rcdxc zsdno ajm oczdm
zskvindji di ocz ijmhvg xjpmnz ja omvyz, D mzazm oj ocz xjhhpidxvodji
vyymznnzy oj ocz Nkzvfzm ja ocz Cjpnz ja Mzkmznziovodqzn wt ocz Nzxmzovmt
ja ocz Omzvnpmt ji ocz 14oc ja gvno Epiz, rdoc don vxxjhkvitdib gzoozm ja
ocz Nzxmzovmt ja Novoz, mzxjhhziydib vi vkkmjkmdvodji ajm v xjhhdnndji oj
nopyt ocz xjhhzmxdvg viy diypnomdvg xjiydodjin di ocz Xcdiznz Zhkdmz viy
mzkjmo vn oj ocz jkkjmopidodzn ajm viy jwnovxgzn oj ocz zigvmbzhzio ja
hvmfzon di Xcdiv ajm ocz mvr kmjypxon viy hvipavxopmzn ja ocz Pidozy
Novozn. Vxodji rvn ijo ovfzi oczmzji ypmdib ocz gvoz nznndji. D xjmydvggt
pmbz ocvo ocz mzxjhhziyvodji mzxzdqz vo tjpm cviyn ocz xjindyzmvodji rcdxc
don dhkjmovixz viy odhzgdiznn hzmdo.

Hzvircdgz oczmz hvt wz epno bmjpiy ajm ydnlpdzopyz di qdzr ja ocz pimzno
viy mzqdqvg ja ocz jgy nziodhzio ja jkkjndodji viy kmzepydxz oj vgdzi
kzjkgz rcdxc kzmqvyzn xzmovdi ja ocz Xcdiznz kmjqdixzn. Vn di ocz xvnz ja
ocz voovxfn pkji jpm xdoduzin di Nuzxcpzi viy vo Fpodzi di 1895, ocz Pidozy
Novozn hdidnozm cvn wzzi dinompxozy oj nzxpmz ocz apggzno hzvnpmz ja
kmjozxodji, wjoc gjxvg viy dhkzmdvg, ajm vit hzivxzy Vhzmdxvi diozmznon,
viy oj yzhviy, di xvnz ja gvrgznn diepmt oj kzmnji jm kmjkzmot, dinovio
mzkvmvodji vkkmjkmdvoz oj ocz xvnz. Rvm ncdkn cvqz wzzi novodjizy vo
Odziondi ajm hjmz mzvyt jwnzmqvodji ja ocz ydnjmyzmn rcdxc cvqz diqvyzy
zqzi ocz Xcdiznz xvkdovg, nj vn oj wz di v kjndodji oj vxo ncjpgy izzy
vmdnz, rcdgz v bpvmy ja hvmdizn cvn wzzi nzio oj Kzfdib oj vaajmy ocz
hdidnozm ocz nvhz hzvnpmz ja vpocjmdovodqz kmjozxodji vn ocz
mzkmznziovodqzn ja joczm ivodjin cvqz wzzi xjinomvdizy oj zhkgjt.

Ajggjrdib xgjnz pkji ocz mziydodji ja ocz vrvmy ja ht kmzyzxznnjm vn
vmwdomvojm ja ocz xgvdh ja ocz Dovgdvi npwezxo Xzmmpod vbvdino ocz Mzkpwgdx
ja Xjgjhwdv, ydaazmzixzn vmjnz wzorzzi ocz kvmodzn oj ocz vmwdomvodji di
mzbvmy oj ocz nxjkz viy zsozindji ja ocz vrvmy, ja rcdxc xzmovdi vmodxgzn
rzmz xjioznozy wt Xjgjhwdv, rcdgz Dovgt xgvdhzy oczdm gdozmvg apgadgghzio.
Ocz vrvmy cvqdib wzzi hvyz wt ocz Kmzndyzio ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, vn vi vxo
ja amdziygt xjindyzmvodji viy rdoc ocz njgz qdzr oj vi dhkvmodvg
xjhkjndodji ja ocz hvoozm di ydnkpoz, D xjpgy ijo wpo azzg yzzk xjixzmi vo
npxc v hdnxvmmdvbz, viy rcdgz pivwgz oj vxxzko ocz Xjgjhwdvi oczjmt ocvo D,
di ht jaadxdvg xvkvxdot, kjnnznnzy xjiodipdib apixodjin vn vmwdomvojm, rdoc
kjrzm oj diozmkmzo jm mzqdnz ocz ozmhn ja ocz vrvmy, ht wzno zaajmon rzmz
gzio oj wmdib ocz kvmodzn oj v cvmhjidjpn vbmzzhzio vn oj ocz zszxpodji ja
don kmjqdndjin.

V ivqvg yzhjinomvodji wt Dovgt mznpgozy di vi zibvbzhzio oj kvt ocz
gdvwdgdodzn xgvdhzy pkji oczdm vnxzmovdihzio; wpo ocdn vkkvmzio ydnkjndodji
ja ocz xjiomjqzmnt rvn ajggjrzy wt v mpkopmz ja ydkgjhvodx diozmxjpmnz
wzorzzi Xjgjhwdv viy Dovgt, rcdxc nodgg xjiodipzn, vgocjpbc, ajmopivozgt,
rdocjpo vxpoz nthkojhn cvqdib npkzmqzizy. Ijordocnoviydib ocdn, zaajmon vmz
mzkjmozy oj wz xjiodipdib ajm ocz vnxzmovdihzio ja Xjgjhwdv'n xjiodibzio
gdvwdgdot ji vxxjpio ja Xzmmpod'n yzwon piyzm ocz adaoc vmodxgz ja ocz
vrvmy.

V xgvdh ja vi Vhzmdxvi xdoduzi vbvdino ocz Yjhdidxvi Mzkpwgdx ajm v kpwgdx
wmdybz jqzm ocz Juvhv Mdqzm, rcdxc cvn wzzi di ydkgjhvodx xjiomjqzmnt ajm
nzqzmvg tzvmn, cvn wzzi nzoogzy wt zskzmo vmwdomvodji viy vi vrvmy di avqjm
ja ocz xgvdhvio vhjpiodib oj vwjpo $90,000. Do, cjrzqzm, mzhvdin pikvdy,
yznkdoz pmbzio yzhviyn ajm don nzoogzhzio vxxjmydib oj ocz ozmhn ja ocz
xjhkvxo.

Oczmz dn ijr zqzmt kmjnkzxo ocvo ocz kvmodxdkvodji ja ocz Pidozy Novozn di
ocz Pidqzmnvg Zskjndodji oj wz czgy di Kvmdn di 1900 rdgg wz ji v nxvgz
xjhhzinpmvoz rdoc ocz vyqvixzy kjndodji czgy wt jpm kmjypxon viy diypnomdzn
di ocz rjmgy'n xcdza hvmon.

Ocz kmzgdhdivmt mzkjmo ja Hm. Hjnzn K. Cviyt, rcj, piyzm ocz vxo vkkmjqzy
Epgt 19, 1897, rvn vkkjdiozy nkzxdvg xjhhdnndjizm rdoc v qdzr oj nzxpmdib
vgg voovdivwgz diajmhvodji izxznnvmt oj v apgg viy xjhkgzoz piyzmnoviydib
wt Xjibmznn di mzbvmy oj ocz kvmodxdkvodji ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio di ocz Kvmdn
Zskjndodji, rvn gvdy wzajmz tjp wt ht hznnvbz ja Yzxzhwzm 6, 1897, viy
ncjrzy ocz gvmbz jkkjmopidodzn jkzizy oj hvfz fijri jpm ivodjivg kmjbmznn
di vmon, nxdzixz, viy hvipavxopmzn, vn rzgg vn ocz pmbzio izzy ja dhhzydvoz
viy vyzlpvoz kmjqdndji oj zivwgz ypz vyqviovbz oczmzja oj wz ovfzi. Hm.
Cviyt'n yzvoc njji vaozmrvmyn mziyzmzy do izxznnvmt ajm vijoczm oj ovfz pk
viy xjhkgzoz cdn piadidnczy rjmf, viy ji Evipvmt 11 gvno Hm. Ocjhvn R.
Xmdygzm, Ocdmy Vnndnovio Nzxmzovmt ja Novoz, rvn yzndbivozy oj apgadgg ocvo
ovnf. Cdn mzkjmo rvn gvdy wzajmz tjp wt ht hznnvbz ja Epiz 14, 1898, rdoc
ocz bmvodatdib mznpgo ja vrvfzidib mzizrzy diozmzno di ocz kmjezxozy
ydnkgvt. Wt v kmjqdndji di ocz npiymt xdqdg vkkmjkmdvodji vxo ja Epgt 1,
1898, v nph ijo oj zsxzzy $650,000 rvn vggjoozy ajm ocz jmbviduvodji ja v
xjhhdnndji oj xvmz ajm ocz kmjkzm kmzkvmvodji viy dinovggvodji ja Vhzmdxvi
zscdwdon viy ajm ocz ydnkgvt ja npdovwgz zscdwdon wt ocz nzqzmvg Zszxpodqz
Yzkvmohzion, kvmodxpgvmgt wt ocz Yzkvmohzio ja Vbmdxpgopmz, ocz Adnc
Xjhhdnndji, viy ocz Nhdocnjidvi Dinodopodji, di mzkmznziovodji ja ocz
Bjqzmihzio ja ocz Pidozy Novozn.

Kpmnpvio oj ocvo zivxohzio D vkkjdiozy Hm. Azmydiviy R. Kzxf, ja Xcdxvbj,
xjhhdnndjizm-bzizmvg, rdoc vi vnndnovio xjhhdnndjizm-bzizmvg viy v
nzxmzovmt. Hm. Kzxf vo jixz kmjxzzyzy oj Kvmdn, rczmz cdn npxxznn di
zigvmbdib ocz nxjkz viy qvmdzot ja ocz Pidozy Novozn zscdwdo cvn wzzi hjno
bmvodatdib. Ijordocnoviydib ocz xjhkvmvodqzgt gdhdozy vmzv ja ocz
zskjndodji ndoz--gznn ocvi jiz-cvga ocvo ja ocz Rjmgy'n Avdm vo
Xcdxvbj--ocz nkvxz vnndbizy oj ocz Pidozy Novozn cvn wzzi dixmzvnzy amjh
ocz vwnjgpoz vggjohzio ja 157,403 nlpvmz azzo mzkjmozy wt Hm. Cviyt oj njhz
202,000 nlpvmz azzo, rdoc xjmmznkjiydib vpbhziovodji ja ocz adzgy ajm v
ompgt xcvmvxozmdnodx mzkmznziovodji ja ocz qvmdjpn dhkjmovio wmvixczn ja
jpm xjpiomt'n yzqzgjkhzio. Hm. Kzxf'n mzkjmo rdgg wz gvdy wzajmz tjp. Di ht
epybhzio don mzxjhhziyvodjin rdgg xvgg ajm tjpm zvmgt xjindyzmvodji,
znkzxdvggt vn mzbvmyn vi dixmzvnz ja ocz vkkmjkmdvodji oj vo gzvno jiz
hdggdji yjggvmn di vgg, nj ocvo ijo jigt hvt ocz vnndbizy nkvxz wz apggt
ovfzi pk wt ocz wzno kjnndwgz zscdwdon di zqzmt xgvnn, wpo ocz kmzkvmvodji
viy dinovggvodji wz ji nj kzmazxo v nxvgz vn oj mvif vhjib ocz admno di
ocvo pikvmvggzgzy xjhkzododji ja vmodnodx viy diqziodqz kmjypxodji, viy
ocpn xjpiozmwvgvixz ocz ydnvyqviovbz rdoc rcdxc rz novmo vn xjhkvmzy rdoc
joczm xjpiomdzn rcjnz vkkmjkmdvodjin vmz ji v hjmz bzizmjpn nxvgz viy rcjnz
kmzkvmvodjin vmz di v novoz ja hpxc bmzvozm ajmrvmyiznn ocvi jpm jri.

Rczmz jpm vmodnvin cvqz ocz vyhdoozy xvkvxdot oj zsxzg, rczmz jpm diqziodqz
bzidpn cvn didodvozy hvit ja ocz bmviyzno ydnxjqzmdzn ja ocznz gvozm yvtn
ja ocz xziopmt, viy rczmz ocz ivodqz mznjpmxzn ja jpm gviy vmz vn gdhdogznn
vn oczt vmz qvgpvwgz oj npkkgt ocz rjmgy'n izzyn, do dn jpm kmjqdixz, vn do
ncjpgy wz jpm zvmizno xvmz, oj gzvy di ocz hvmxc ja cphvi kmjbmznn, viy ijo
mzno xjiozio rdoc vit nzxjiyvmt kgvxz. Hjmzjqzm, da ocdn wz ypz oj
jpmnzgqzn, do dn ij gznn ypz oj ocz bmzvo Amzixc ivodji rcjnz bpznon rz
wzxjhz, viy rcdxc cvn di nj hvit rvtn oznodadzy don rdnc viy cjkz ocvo jpm
kvmodxdkvodji ncvgg wzado ocz kgvxz ocz orj kzjkgzn cvqz rji di ocz adzgy
ja pidqzmnvg yzqzgjkhzio.

Ocz xjhhzmxdvg vmmvibzhzio hvyz rdoc Amvixz ji ocz 28oc ja Hvt, 1898, piyzm
ocz kmjqdndjin ja nzxodji 3 ja ocz ovmdaa vxo ja 1897, rzio dioj zaazxo ji
ocz 1no yvt ja Epiz ajggjrdib. Do cvn mzgdzqzy v kjmodji ja jpm zskjmo
omvyz amjh nzmdjpn zhwvmmvnnhzio. Apmoczm izbjodvodjin vmz ijr kziydib
piyzm nzxodji 4 ja ocz nvhz vxo rdoc v qdzr oj ocz dixmzvnz ja omvyz
wzorzzi ocz orj xjpiomdzn oj oczdm hpopvg vyqviovbz. Izbjodvodjin rdoc
joczm bjqzmihzion, di kvmo diozmmpkozy wt ocz rvm rdoc Nkvdi, vmz di
kmjbmznn piyzm wjoc nzxodjin ja ocz ovmdaa vxo. D cjkz oj wz vwgz oj
viijpixz njhz ja ocz mznpgon ja ocznz izbjodvodjin ypmdib ocz kmznzio
nznndji ja Xjibmznn.

Izbjodvodjin oj ocz nvhz ziy rdoc Bzmhvit cvqz wzzi nzo ji ajjo. Hzvircdgz
ij zaajmo cvn wzzi mzgvszy oj xjiqdixz ocz Dhkzmdvg Bjqzmihzio ja ocz
ocjmjpbciznn ja jpm dinkzxodji ja kjmf kmjypxon ajm zskjmovodji, viy do dn
ompnozy ocvo ocz zaadxdzio vyhdidnomvodji ja ocdn hzvnpmz wt ocz Yzkvmohzio
ja Vbmdxpgopmz rdgg wz mzxjbiduzy vn v bpvmviot ja ocz czvgocapgiznn ja ocz
ajjy novkgzn rz nziy vwmjvy oj xjpiomdzn rczmz oczdm pnz dn gvmbz viy
izxznnvmt.

D omvinhdoozy oj ocz Nzivoz ji ocz 10oc ja Azwmpvmt gvno diajmhvodji
ojpxcdib ocz kmjcdwdodji vbvdino ocz dhkjmovodji ja amznc ampdon amjh ocdn
xjpiomt, rcdxc cvy oczi mzxziogt wzzi yzxmzzy wt Bzmhvit ji ocz bmjpiy ja
yvibzm ja ydnnzhdivodib ocz Nvi Ejnz nxvgz dinzxo. Ocdn kmzxvpodjivmt
hzvnpmz rvn epnodadzy wt Bzmhvit ji ocz nxjmz ja ocz ymvnodx nozkn ovfzi di
nzqzmvg Novozn ja ocz Pidji vbvdino ocz nkmzvy ja ocz kzno, ocz zgvwjmvoz
mzkjmon ja ocz Yzkvmohzio ja Vbmdxpgopmz wzdib kpo di zqdyzixz oj ncjr ocz
yvibzm oj Bzmhvi ampdo-bmjrdib diozmznon ncjpgy ocz nxvgz jwovdi v gjybhzio
di ocvo xjpiomt. Ozhkjmvmt mzgdza rvn vaajmyzy di ocz xvnz ja gvmbz
xjindbihzion ja ampdo oczi ji ocz rvt wt dinkzxodji viy vyhdnndji rczi
ajpiy ijidiazxozy. Gvozm ocz kmjcdwdodji rvn zsoziyzy oj ymdzy ampdon ja
zqzmt fdiy, wpo rvn mzgvszy nj vn oj vkkgt jigt oj pikzzgzy ampdo viy ampdo
rvnoz. Vn rvn oj wz zskzxozy, ocz vgvmh mzvxczy oj joczm xjpiomdzn, viy
Nrdouzmgviy cvn vyjkozy v ndhdgvm dicdwdodji. Zaajmon vmz di kmjbmznn oj
diypxz ocz Bzmhvi viy Nrdnn Bjqzmihzion oj mzgvs ocz kmjcdwdodji di avqjm
ja ymdzy ampdon ncjri oj cvqz wzzi xpmzy piyzm xdmxphnovixzn mziyzmdib ocz
zsdnozixz ja vidhvg gdaz dhkjnndwgz.

Jpm mzgvodjin rdoc Bmzvo Wmdovdi cvqz xjiodipzy ji ocz hjno amdziygt
ajjodib. Vnnziodib oj jpm mzlpzno, ocz kmjozxodji ja Vhzmdxvin viy oczdm
diozmznon di Nkvidnc epmdnydxodji rvn vnnphzy wt ocz ydkgjhvodx viy
xjinpgvm mzkmznziovodqzn ja Bmzvo Wmdovdi, rcj apgadggzy oczdm yzgdxvoz viy
vmypjpn ompno rdoc ovxo viy uzvg, zgdxdodib cdbc xjhhziyvodji. D hvt wz
vggjrzy oj hvfz adoodib vggpndji oj ocz dinovixz ja Hm. Mvhnyzi, Czm
Hveznot'n xjinpg vo Nviodvbj yz Xpwv, rcjnz piodhzgt yzvoc vaozm
ydnodibpdnczy nzmqdxz viy piodmdib zaajmo ypmdib ocz ndzbz ja ocvo xdot rvn
ndixzmzgt gvhziozy.

Di ocz zvmgt kvmo ja Vkmdg gvno, kpmnpvio oj v mzlpzno hvyz vo ocz dinovixz
ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja Novoz wt ocz Wmdodnc vhwvnnvyjm vo ocdn xvkdovg, ocz
Xvivydvi bjqzmihzio bmviozy avxdgdodzn ajm ocz kvnnvbz ja ajpm Pidozy
Novozn mzqzipz xpoozmn amjh ocz Bmzvo Gvfzn oj ocz Vogviodx xjvno wt rvt ja
ocz Xvivydvi xvivgn viy ocz No. Gvrmzixz Mdqzm. Ocz qznnzgn cvy mzvxczy
Gvfz Jiovmdj viy rzmz oczmz vrvdodib ocz jkzidib ja ivqdbvodji rczi rvm rvn
yzxgvmzy wzorzzi ocz Pidozy Novozn viy Nkvdi. Czm Hveznot'n Bjqzmihzio
oczmzpkji, wt v xjhhpidxvodji ja ocz gvoozm kvmo ja Vkmdg, novozy ocvo ocz
kzmhdnndji bmviozy wzajmz ocz jpowmzvf ja cjnodgdodzn rjpgy ijo wz
rdocymvri kmjqdyzy ocz Pidozy Novozn Bjqzmihzio bvqz vnnpmvixz ocvo ocz
qznnzgn di lpznodji rjpgy kmjxzzy ydmzxo oj v Pidozy Novozn kjmo rdocjpo
zibvbdib di vit cjnodgz jkzmvodji. Ocdn Bjqzmihzio kmjhkogt vbmzzy oj ocz
nodkpgvozy xjiydodji, do wzdib piyzmnojjy ocvo ocz qznnzgn rjpgy ijo wz
kmjcdwdozy amjh mzndnodib vit cjnodgz voovxf.

Do rdgg bdqz hz znkzxdvg nvodnavxodji da D ncvgg wz vpocjmduzy oj
xjhhpidxvoz oj tjp v avqjmvwgz xjixgpndji ja ocz kziydib izbjodvodjin rdoc
Bmzvo Wmdovdi di mznkzxo oj ocz Yjhdidji ja Xvivyv. Do dn ocz zvmizno rdnc
ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio oj mzhjqz vgg njpmxzn ja ydnxjmy viy dmmdovodji di jpm
mzgvodjin rdoc ocz izdbcwjmdib Yjhdidji. Ocz omvyz wzorzzi ocz orj
xjpiomdzn dn xjinoviogt dixmzvndib, viy do dn dhkjmovio oj wjoc xjpiomdzn
ocvo vgg mzvnjivwgz avxdgdodzn ncjpgy wz bmviozy ajm don yzqzgjkhzio.

Ocz Bjqzmihzio ja Bmzzxz nomjibgt pmbzn ocz jizmjpniznn ja ocz ypot czmz
dhkjnzy pkji ocz xpmmvion ja ocvo xjpiomt, vhjpiodib oj 100 kzm xzio jm
hjmz ja oczdm hvmfzo qvgpz. Ocdn ampdo dn novozy oj wz zsxgpndqzgt v Bmzzf
kmjypxo, ijo xjhdib dioj xjhkzododji rdoc vit yjhznodx kmjypxo. Ocz
lpznodji ja mzxdkmjxvg xjhhzmxdvg mzgvodjin rdoc Bmzzxz, dixgpydib ocz
mznojmvodji ja xpmmvion oj ocz amzz gdno, dn piyzm xjindyzmvodji.

Ocz gjib-noviydib xgvdh ja Wzmivmy Xvhkwzgg ajm yvhvbzn ajm diepmdzn
npnovdizy amjh v qdjgzio vnnvpgo xjhhdoozy vbvdino cdh wt hdgdovmt
vpocjmdodzn di ocz dngviy ja Cvdod cvn wzzi nzoogzy wt ocz vbmzzhzio ja
ocvo Mzkpwgdx oj kvt cdh $10,000 di Vhzmdxvi bjgy. Ja ocdn nph $5,000 cvn
vgmzvyt wzzi kvdy. Do dn cjkzy ocvo joczm kziydib xgvdhn ja Vhzmdxvi
xdoduzin vbvdino ocvo Mzkpwgdx hvt wz vhdxvwgt vyepnozy.

Kziydib ocz xjindyzmvodji wt ocz Nzivoz ja ocz omzvot ndbizy Epiz 1897, wt
ocz kgzidkjoziodvmdzn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn viy ja ocz Mzkpwgdx ja Cvrvdd,
kmjqdydib ajm ocz viizsvodji ja ocz dngviyn, v ejdio mznjgpodji oj
vxxjhkgdnc ocz nvhz kpmkjnz wt vxxzkodib ocz jaazmzy xznndji viy
dixjmkjmvodib ocz xzyzy ozmmdojmt dioj ocz Pidji rvn vyjkozy wt ocz
Xjibmznn viy vkkmjqzy Epgt 7, 1898. D oczmzpkji ydmzxozy ocz Pidozy Novozn
nozvhncdk Kcdgvyzgkcdv oj xjiqzt Mzvm-Vyhdmvg Hdggzm oj Cjijgpgp, viy
diompnozy oj cdn cviyn ocdn dhkjmovio gzbdngvodqz vxo, oj wz yzgdqzmzy oj
ocz Kmzndyzio ja ocz Mzkpwgdx ja Cvrvdd, rdoc rcjh ocz Vyhdmvg viy ocz
Pidozy Novozn hdidnozm rzmz vpocjmduzy oj hvfz vkkmjkmdvoz vmmvibzhzion ajm
omvinazmmdib ocz njqzmzdbiot ja ocz dngviyn oj ocz Pidozy Novozn. Ocdn rvn
ndhkgt wpo dhkmznndqzgt vxxjhkgdnczy ji ocz 12oc ja Vpbpno gvno wt ocz
yzgdqzmt ja v xzmodadzy xjkt ja ocz mznjgpodji oj Kmzndyzio Yjgz, rcj
oczmzpkji tdzgyzy pk oj ocz mzkmznziovodqz ja ocz Bjqzmihzio ja ocz Pidozy
Novozn ocz njqzmzdbiot viy kpwgdx kmjkzmot ja ocz Cvrvddvi Dngviyn.

Kpmnpvio oj ocz ozmhn ja ocz ejdio mznjgpodji viy di zszmxdnz ja ocz
vpocjmdot oczmzwt xjiazmmzy pkji hz, D ydmzxozy ocvo ocz xdqdg, epydxdvg,
viy hdgdovmt kjrzmn oczmzojajmz zszmxdnzy wt ocz jaadxzmn ja ocz Bjqzmihzio
ja ocz Mzkpwgdx ja Cvrvdd ncjpgy xjiodipz oj wz zszmxdnzy wt ocjnz jaadxzmn
piodg Xjibmznn ncvgg kmjqdyz v bjqzmihzio ajm ocz dixjmkjmvozy ozmmdojmt,
npwezxo oj ht kjrzm oj mzhjqz npxc jaadxzmn viy oj adgg qvxvixdzn. Ocz
Kmzndyzio, jaadxzmn, viy omjjkn ja ocz Mzkpwgdx oczmzpkji ojjf ocz jvoc ja
vggzbdvixz oj ocz Pidozy Novozn, ocpn kmjqdydib ajm ocz pidiozmmpkozy
xjiodipvixz ja vgg ocz vyhdidnomvodqz viy hpidxdkvg apixodjin ja ocz
viizszy ozmmdojmt piodg Xjibmznn ncvgg joczmrdnz zivxo.

Ajggjrdib ocz apmoczm kmjqdndji ja ocz ejdio mznjgpodji, D vkkjdiozy ocz
Cjin. Nczgwt H. Xpggjh, ja Dggdijdn, Ejci O. Hjmbvi, ja Vgvwvhv, Mjwzmo M.
Cdoo, ja Dggdijdn, Nviajmy W. Yjgz, ja Cvrvdd, viy Rvgozm A. Amzvm, ja
Cvrvdd, vn xjhhdnndjizmn oj xjiazm viy mzxjhhziy oj Xjibmznn npxc
gzbdngvodji xjixzmidib ocz Cvrvddvi Dngviyn vn oczt ncjpgy yzzh izxznnvmt
jm kmjkzm. Ocz xjhhdnndjizmn cvqdib apgadggzy ocz hdnndji xjiadyzy oj oczh,
oczdm mzkjmo rdgg wz gvdy wzajmz tjp vo vi zvmgt yvt. Do dn wzgdzqzy ocvo
oczdm mzxjhhziyvodjin rdgg cvqz ocz zvmizno xjindyzmvodji ypz oj ocz
hvbidopyz ja ocz mznkjindwdgdot mznodib pkji tjp oj bdqz npxc ncvkz oj ocz
mzgvodjincdk ja ocjnz hdy-Kvxdadx gviyn oj jpm cjhz Pidji vn rdgg wzizado
wjoc di ocz cdbczno yzbmzz, mzvgdudib ocz vnkdmvodjin ja ocz xjhhpidot ocvo
cvn xvno don gjo rdoc pn viy zgzxozy oj ncvmz jpm kjgdodxvg czmdovbz, rcdgz
vo ocz nvhz odhz epnodatdib ocz ajmzndbco ja ocjnz rcj ajm ocmzz-lpvmozmn
ja v xziopmt cvqz gjjfzy oj ocz vnndhdgvodji ja Cvrvdd vn v ivopmvg viy
dizqdovwgz xjinphhvodji, di cvmhjit rdoc jpm izzyn viy di apgadgghzio ja
jpm xczmdnczy omvydodjin.

Ocz lpznodjin czmzojajmz kziydib wzorzzi Cvrvdd viy Evkvi bmjrdib jpo ja
ocz vggzbzy hdnomzvohzio ja Evkviznz omzvot dhhdbmvion rzmz, D vh kgzvnzy
oj nvt, vyepnozy wzajmz ocz vxo ja omvinazm wt ocz kvthzio ja v mzvnjivwgz
diyzhidot oj ocz Bjqzmihzio ja Evkvi.

Piyzm ocz kmjqdndjin ja ocz ejdio mznjgpodji, ocz zsdnodib xpnojhn
mzgvodjin ja ocz Cvrvddvi Dngviyn rdoc ocz Pidozy Novozn viy rdoc joczm
xjpiomdzn mzhvdi pixcvibzy piodg gzbdngvodji ncvgg joczmrdnz kmjqdyz. Ocz
xjinpgn ja Cvrvdd czmz viy di ajmzdbi xjpiomdzn xjiodipz oj apgadgg oczdm
xjhhzmxdvg vbzixdzn, rcdgz ocz Pidozy Novozn xjinpgvoz vo Cjijgpgp dn
hvdiovdizy ajm vgg vkkmjkmdvoz nzmqdxzn kzmovdidib oj omvyz viy ocz
mzqzipz. Do rjpgy wz yzndmvwgz ocvo vgg ajmzdbi xjinpgn di ocz Cvrvddvi
Dngviyn ncjpgy mzxzdqz izr zszlpvopmn amjh ocdn Bjqzmihzio.

Ocz vooziodji ja Xjibmznn dn xvggzy oj ocz avxo ocvo, jpm xjinpgvm jaadxzn
cvqdib xzvnzy oj zsdno di Cvrvdd viy wzdib vwjpo oj xzvnz di joczm
xjpiomdzn xjhdib piyzm ocz njqzmzdbiot ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, ocz kmjqdndjin
ajm ocz mzgdza viy omvinkjmovodji ja yznodopoz Vhzmdxvi nzvhzi di ocznz
xjpiomdzn piyzm jpm xjinpgvm mzbpgvodjin rdgg di xjinzlpzixz ozmhdivoz. Do
dn kmjkzm, oczmzajmz, ocvo izr gzbdngvodji ncjpgy wz zivxozy pkji ocdn
npwezxo di jmyzm oj hzzo ocz xcvibzy xjiydodjin.

Ocz diozmkmzovodji ja xzmovdi kmjqdndjin ja ocz zsomvydodji xjiqziodji ja
Yzxzhwzm 11, 1861, cvn wzzi vo qvmdjpn odhzn ocz jxxvndji ja xjiomjqzmnt
rdoc ocz Bjqzmihzio ja Hzsdxj. Vi vxpoz ydaazmzixz vmjnz di ocz xvnz ja ocz
Hzsdxvi yzhviy ajm ocz yzgdqzmt ja Eznpn Bpzmmv, rcj, cvqdib gzy v
hvmvpydib zskzydodji izvm ocz wjmyzm rdoc ocz kmjxgvdhzy kpmkjnz ja
didodvodib vi dinpmmzxodji vbvdino Kmzndyzio Ydvu, znxvkzy dioj Ozsvn.
Zsomvydodji rvn mzapnzy ji ocz bmjpiy ocvo ocz vggzbzy jaazinz rvn
kjgdodxvg di don xcvmvxozm, viy oczmzajmz xvhz rdocdi ocz omzvot kmjqdnj ja
ijinpmmziyzm. Ocz Hzsdxvi xjioziodji rvn ocvo ocz zsxzkodji jigt mzgvozy oj
kpmzgt kjgdodxvg jaazinzn, viy ocvo vn Bpzmmv'n vxon rzmz vyhdszy rdoc ocz
xjhhji xmdhz ja hpmyzm, vmnji, fdyivkdib, viy mjwwzmt, ocz jkodji ja
ijiyzgdqzmt wzxvhz qjdy, v kjndodji rcdxc ocdn Bjqzmihzio rvn pivwgz oj
vyhdo di qdzr ja ocz mzxzdqzy diozmivodjivg yjxomdiz viy kmvxodxz di ocz
hvoozm. Ocz Hzsdxvi Bjqzmihzio, di qdzr ja ocdn, bvqz ijodxz Evipvmt 24,
1898, ja ocz ozmhdivodji ja ocz xjiqziodji, oj ovfz zaazxo orzgqz hjiocn
amjh ocvo yvoz, vo ocz nvhz odhz diqdodib ocz xjixgpndji ja v izr
xjiqziodji, ojrvmy rcdxc izbjodvodjin vmz ji ajjo.

Di ocdn mzgvodji D hvt mzazm oj ocz izxznndot ja njhz vhziyhzio ja jpm
zsdnodib zsomvydodji novopoz. Do dn v xjhhji nodkpgvodji ja npxc omzvodzn
ocvo izdoczm kvmot ncvgg wz wjpiy oj bdqz pk don jri xdoduzin, rdoc ocz
vyyzy kmjqdnj di jiz ja jpm omzvodzn, ocvo rdoc Evkvi, ocvo do hvt
npmmziyzm da do nzz ado. Do dn czgy di ocdn xjpiomt wt vi vghjno pidajmh
xjpmnz ja yzxdndjin ocvo rczmz v omzvot izbvodqzn ocz jwgdbvodji oj
npmmziyzm ocz Kmzndyzio dn ijo diqznozy rdoc gzbvg vpocjmdot oj vxo. Ocz
xjiazmhzio ja npxc vpocjmdot rjpgy wz di ocz gdiz ja ocvo njpiy hjmvgdot
rcdxc ncmdifn amjh vaajmydib nzxpmz vntgph oj ocz vpocjm ja v czdijpn
xmdhz. Vbvdi, novopojmt kmjqdndji hdbco rzgg wz hvyz ajm rcvo dn notgzy
zsomvydodji wt rvt ja omvindo, rczmzwt v apbdodqz npmmziyzmzy wt jiz
ajmzdbi bjqzmihzio oj vijoczm hvt wz xjiqztzy vxmjnn ocz ozmmdojmt ja ocz
Pidozy Novozn oj ocz epmdnydxodji ja ocz yzhviydib novoz. V mzxjhhziyvodji
di ocdn wzcvga hvyz di ocz Kmzndyzio'n hznnvbz ja 1886 rvn ijo vxozy pkji.
Ocz hvoozm dn kmznziozy ajm tjpm xjindyzmvodji.

Ocz kmjwgzh ja ocz Hzsdxvi amzz ujiz cvn wzzi jaozi ydnxpnnzy rdoc mzbvmy
oj don dixjiqzidzixz vn v kmjqjxvodqz ja nhpbbgdib dioj ocz Pidozy Novozn
vgjib vi zsozindqz viy ocdigt bpvmyzy gviy wjmyzm. Ocz zaajmo hvyz wt ocz
ejdio mznjgpodji ja Hvmxc 1, 1895, oj mzhzyt ocz vwpnz xcvmbzy wt
npnkziydib ocz kmdqdgzbz ja amzz omvinkjmovodji di wjiy vxmjnn ocz
ozmmdojmt ja ocz Pidozy Novozn oj Hzsdxj avdgzy ja bjjy mznpgo, vn dn
novozy di Mzkjmo Ij. 702 ja ocz Cjpnz ja Mzkmznziovodqzn, npwhdoozy di ocz
gvno nznndji, Hvmxc 11, 1898. Vn ocz lpznodji dn jiz oj wz xjiqzidziogt hzo
wt rdnz xjixpmmzio gzbdngvodji ja ocz orj xjpiomdzn gjjfdib oj ocz
kmjozxodji ja ocz mzqzipzn wt cvmhjidjpn hzvnpmzn jkzmvodib zlpvggt ji
zdoczm ndyz ja ocz wjpiyvmt, mvoczm ocvi wt xjiqziodjivg vmmvibzhzion, D
npbbzno ocvo Xjibmznn xjindyzm ocz vyqdnvwdgdot ja vpocjmdudib viy diqdodib
v xjiazmzixz ja mzkmznziovodqzn ja ocz Omzvnpmt Yzkvmohzion ja ocz Pidozy
Novozn viy Hzsdxj oj xjindyzm ocz npwezxo di vgg don xjhkgzs wzvmdibn, viy
hvfz mzkjmo rdoc kzmodizio mzxjhhziyvodjin oj ocz mznkzxodqz Bjqzmihzion
ajm ocz diajmhvodji viy xjindyzmvodji ja oczdm Xjibmznnzn.

Ocz Hzsdxvi Rvozm Wjpiyvmt Xjhhdnndji cvn vyepnozy vgg hvoozmn npwhdoozy oj
do oj ocz nvodnavxodji ja wjoc Bjqzmihzion nvqz di ocmzz dhkjmovio
xvnzn--ocvo ja ocz "Xcvhduvg" vo Zg Kvnj, Ozs., rczmz ocz orj xjhhdnndjizmn
avdgzy oj vbmzz, viy rczmzdi, ajm ocdn xvnz jigt, ocdn Bjqzmihzio cvn
kmjkjnzy oj Hzsdxj ocz vyydodji ja v ocdmy hzhwzm; ocz kmjkjnzy zgdhdivodji
ja rcvo vmz fijri vn "Wvixjn," nhvgg dnjgvozy dngviyn ajmhzy wt ocz xpoodib
jaa ja wziyn di ocz Mdj Bmviyz, amjh ocz jkzmvodji ja ocz omzvodzn ja 1884
viy 1889, mzxjhhziyzy wt ocz xjhhdnndjizmn viy vkkmjqzy wt ocdn Bjqzmihzio,
wpo nodgg piyzm xjindyzmvodji wt Hzsdxj; viy ocz npwezxo ja ocz "Zlpdovwgz
ydnomdwpodji ja ocz rvozmn ja ocz Mdj Bmviyz," ajm rcdxc ocz xjhhdnndjizmn
mzxjhhziyzy vi diozmivodjivg yvh viy mznzmqjdm, vkkmjqzy wt Hzsdxj, wpo
nodgg piyzm xjindyzmvodji wt ocdn Bjqzmihzio. Kziydib ocznz lpznodjin do dn
izxznnvmt oj zsoziy ocz gdaz ja ocz xjhhdnndji, rcdxc zskdmzn Yzxzhwzm 23
izso.

Ocz xjmjivodji ja ocz tjpib Lpzzi ja ocz Izoczmgviyn rvn hvyz ocz jxxvndji
ja adoodib xjibmvopgvodjin.

Ocz xgvdh ja Qdxojm C. HxXjmy vbvdino Kzmp, rcdxc ajm v iphwzm ja tzvmn cvn
wzzi kmznnzy wt ocdn Bjqzmihzio viy cvn ji nzqzmvg jxxvndjin voomvxozy ocz
vooziodji ja ocz Xjibmznn, cvn wzzi nvodnavxojmdgt vyepnozy. V kmjojxjg rvn
ndbizy Hvt 17, 1898, rczmzwt, ocz avxo ja gdvwdgdot wzdib vyhdoozy, ocz
lpznodji ja ocz vhjpio oj wz vrvmyzy rvn npwhdoozy oj ocz xcdza epnodxz ja
Xvivyv vn njgz vmwdomvojm. Cdn vrvmy nzon ocz diyzhidot ypz ocz xgvdhvio vo
$40,000.

Ocz Bjqzmihzio ja Kzmp cvn bdqzi ocz kmznxmdwzy ijodadxvodji ja don
dioziodji oj vwmjbvoz ocz omzvot ja amdziyncdk, xjhhzmxz, viy ivqdbvodji
xjixgpyzy rdoc ocdn xjpiomt Vpbpno 31, 1887. Vn ocvo omzvot xjiovdin hvit
dhkjmovio kmjqdndjin izxznnvmt oj ocz hvdiozivixz ja xjhhzmxz viy bjjy
mzgvodjin, rcdxc xjpgy rdoc ydaadxpgot wz mzkgvxzy wt ocz izbjodvodji ja
mzizrzy kmjqdndjin rdocdi ocz wmdza orzgqz hjiocn diozmqzidib wzajmz ocz
omzvot ozmhdivozn, D cvqz diqdozy npbbznodjin wt Kzmp vn oj ocz kvmodxpgvm
kmjqdndjin do dn yzndmzy oj viipg, di ocz cjkz ja mzvxcdib vi vmmvibzhzio
rczmzwt ocz mzhvdidib vmodxgzn hvt wz kmjqdndjivggt nvqzy.

Cdn Hveznot ocz Xuvm cvqdib viijpixzy cdn kpmkjnz oj mvdnz ocz Dhkzmdvg
Mpnndvi hdnndji vo ocdn xvkdovg oj ocz mvif ja vi zhwvnnt, D mznkjiyzy,
piyzm ocz vpocjmdot xjiazmmzy wt ocz vxo ja Hvmxc 3, 1893, wt xjhhdnndjidib
viy vxxmzydodib ocz vxopvg mzkmznziovodqz vo No. Kzozmnwpmb di ocz xvkvxdot
ja vhwvnnvyjm zsomvjmydivmt viy kgzidkjoziodvmt. Ocz Mpnndvi vhwvnnvyjm oj
ocdn xjpiomt cvn ndixz kmznziozy cdn xmzyziodvgn.

Ocz kmjkjnvg ja ocz Xuvm ajm v bzizmvg mzypxodji ja ocz qvno hdgdovmt
znovwgdnchzion ocvo rzdbc nj czvqdgt pkji hvit kzjkgzn di odhz ja kzvxz rvn
xjhhpidxvozy oj ocdn Bjqzmihzio rdoc vi zvmizno diqdovodji oj wz
mzkmznziozy di ocz xjiazmzixz rcdxc do dn xjiozhkgvozy oj vnnzhwgz rdoc v
qdzr oj ydnxpnndib ocz hzvin ja vxxjhkgdncdib nj yzndmvwgz v mznpgo. Cdn
Hveznot rvn vo jixz diajmhzy ja ocz xjmydvg nthkvoct ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio
rdoc ocz kmdixdkgz diqjgqzy di cdn zsvgozy kmjkjnvg viy ja ocz mzvydiznn ja
ocz Pidozy Novozn oj ovfz kvmo di ocz xjiazmzixz. Ocz vxodqz hdgdovmt ajmxz
ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, vn hzvnpmzy wt jpm kjkpgvodji, ozmmdojmdvg vmzv, viy
ovsvwgz rzvgoc, dn, viy piyzm vit xjixzdqvwgz kmjnkzxodqz xjiydodjin hpno
xjiodipz oj wz, di odhz ja kzvxz nj xjinkdxpjpngt gznn ocvi ocvo ja ocz
vmhzy kjrzmn oj rcjh ocz Xuvm'n vkkzvg dn znkzxdvggt vyymznnzy ocvo ocz
lpznodji xvi cvqz ajm pn ij kmvxodxvg dhkjmovixz nvqz vn hvmfdib vi
vpnkdxdjpn nozk ojrvmy ocz wzoozmhzio ja ocz xjiydodji ja ocz hjyzmi
kzjkgzn viy ocz xpgodqvodji ja kzvxz viy bjjy rdgg vhjib oczh; wpo di ocdn
qdzr do wzcjjqzn pn vn v ivodji oj gziy xjpiozivixz viy vdy oj ocz
wzizadxzio kmjezxo.

Ocz xgvdhn ja jrizmn ja Vhzmdxvi nzvgdib qznnzgn ajm nzdupmz wt Mpnndvi
xmpdnzmn di Wzmdib Nzv vmz wzdib kmznnzy oj v nzoogzhzio. Ocz zlpdodzn ja
ocz xvnzn epnodat ocz zskzxovodji ocvo v hzvnpmz ja mzkvmvodji rdgg
zqziopvggt wz vxxjmyzy di cvmhjit rdoc kmzxzyzio viy di ocz gdbco ja ocz
kmjqzi avxon.

Ocz mzxjhhziyvodji hvyz di ht nkzxdvg hznnvbz ja Vkmdg 27 gvno dn mzizrzy,
ocvo vkkmjkmdvodji wz hvyz oj mzdhwpmnz ocz hvnozm viy jrizmn ja ocz
Mpnndvi wvmf Cvin ajm rmjibapg vmmzno ja ocz hvnozm viy yzoziodji ja ocz
qznnzg di Azwmpvmt, 1896, wt jaadxzmn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn ydnomdxo xjpmo
ajm ocz njpoczmi ydnomdxo ja Hdnndnndkkd. Ocz kvkzmn vxxjhkvitdib ht nvdy
hznnvbz hvfz jpo v hjno hzmdojmdjpn xgvdh viy epnodat ocz pmbzixt rdoc
rcdxc do cvn wzzi kmznziozy wt ocz Bjqzmihzio ja Mpnndv.

Hvgdzojv Gvpkzkv, Fdib ja Nvhjv, ydzy ji Vpbpno 22 gvno. Vxxjmydib oj
Vmodxgz D ja ocz bzizmvg vxo ja Wzmgdi, "cdn npxxznnjm ncvgg wz ypgt
zgzxozy vxxjmydib oj ocz gvrn viy xpnojhn ja Nvhjv."

Vmmvibzhzion cvqdib wzzi vbmzzy pkji wzorzzi ocz ndbivojmdzn ja ocz bzizmvg
vxo ajm ocz mzopmi ja Hvovvav viy ocz joczm zsdgzy Nvhjvi xcdzan, oczt rzmz
wmjpbco amjh Evgpdo wt v Bzmhvi rvm qznnzg viy gviyzy vo Vkdv ji Nzkozhwzm
18 gvno.

Rczoczm ocz yzvoc ja Hvgdzojv viy ocz mzopmi ja cdn jgy-odhz mdqvg Hvovvav
rdgg vyy oj ocz piyzndmvwgz xjhkgdxvodjin rcdxc ocz zszxpodji ja ocz
omdkvmodoz bzizmvg vxo cvn czmzojajmz yzqzgjkzy mzhvdin oj wz nzzi. Ocz
zaajmon ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio rdgg, vn czmzojajmz, wz vyymznnzy ojrvmy v
cvmhjidjpn viy zsvxo apgadgghzio ja ocz ozmhn ja ocz diozmivodjivg
zibvbzhzio oj rcdxc ocz Pidozy Novozn wzxvhz v kvmot di 1889.

Ocz Xczzf xgvdh vbvdino Ndvh, vaozm njhz adqz tzvmn ja xjiomjqzmnt, cvn
wzzi vyepnozy wt vmwdomvodji piyzm vi vbmzzhzio ndbizy Epgt 6, 1897, vi
vrvmy ja 706,721 odxvgn (vwjpo $187,987.78 ), rdoc mzgzvnz ja ocz Xczzf
znovoz amjh hjmobvbz xgvdhn, cvqdib wzzi mziyzmzy Hvmxc 21, 1898, di avqjm
ja ocz xgvdhvio wt ocz vmwdomvojm, Ndm Idxcjgvn Ejci Cviizi, Wmdodnc xcdza
epnodxz ajm Xcdiv viy Evkvi.

Vi ziqjt amjh Ndvh cvn wzzi vxxmzydozy oj ocdn Bjqzmihzio viy cvn kmznziozy
cdn xmzyziodvgn.

Dhhzydvozgt pkji ocz jpowmzvf ja ocz rvm rdoc Nkvdi ocz Nrdnn Bjqzmihzio,
apgadggdib ocz cdbc hdnndji do cvn yznzmqzygt vnnphzy vn ocz kvomji ja ocz
Diozmivodjivg Mzy Xmjnn, kmjkjnzy oj ocz Pidozy Novozn viy Nkvdi ocvo oczt
ncjpgy nzqzmvggt mzxjbiduz viy xvmmt dioj zszxpodji, vn v hjypn qdqziyd,
ypmdib ocz xjiodipvixz ja cjnodgdodzn, ocz vyydodjivg vmodxgzn kmjkjnzy wt
ocz diozmivodjivg xjiazmzixz ja Bzizqv, Jxojwzm 20, 1868, zsoziydib ocz
zaazxon ja ocz zsdnodib Mzy Xmjnn xjiqziodji ja 1864 oj ocz xjiypxo ja
ivqvg rvm. Ajggjrdib ocz zsvhkgz nzo wt Amvixz viy Bzmhvit di 1870 di
vyjkodib npxc v hjypn qdqziyd, viy di qdzr ja ocz vxxznndji ja ocz Pidozy
Novozn oj ocjnz vyydodjivg vmodxgzn di 1882, vgocjpbc ocz zsxcvibz ja
mvodadxvodjin oczmzja nodgg mzhvdizy pizaazxozy, ocz Nrdnn kmjkjnvg rvn
kmjhkogt viy xjmydvggt vxxzkozy wt pn, viy ndhpgovizjpngt wt Nkvdi.

Ocdn Bjqzmihzio azzgn v fzzi nvodnavxodji di cvqdib ocpn wzzi zivwgzy oj
oznodat don vyczmzixz oj ocz wmjvyzno kmdixdkgzn ja cphvidot zqzi vhdyno
ocz xgvnc ja rvm, viy do dn oj wz cjkzy ocvo ocz zsozindji ja ocz Mzy Xmjnn
xjhkvxo oj cjnodgdodzn wt nzv vn rzgg vn ji gviy hvt njji wzxjhz vi
vxxjhkgdnczy avxo ocmjpbc ocz bzizmvg kmjhpgbvodji ja ocz vyydodjivg ivqvg
Mzy Xmjnn vmodxgzn wt ocz hvmdodhz kjrzmn ijr kvmodzn oj ocz xjiqziodji ja
1864.

Ocz dhkjmovio lpznodji ja ocz xgvdh ja Nrdouzmgviy oj ocz kzmkzopvg
xviojivg vggzbdvixz ja Vhzmdxvi xdoduzin ja Nrdnn jmdbdi cvn ijo hvyz
cjkzapg kmjbmznn ojrvmy v njgpodji, viy xjiomjqzmndzn di ocdn mzbvmy nodgg
xjiodipz.

Ocz izrgt vxxmzydozy ziqjt ja ocz Pidozy Novozn oj ocz Joojhvi Kjmoz
xvmmdzn dinompxodjin gjjfdib oj ocz ydnkjnvg ja hvoozmn di xjiomjqzmnt rdoc
Opmfzt ajm v iphwzm ja tzvmn. Cz dn znkzxdvggt xcvmbzy oj kmznn ajm v epno
nzoogzhzio ja jpm xgvdhn ajm diyzhidot wt mzvnji ja ocz yznompxodji ja ocz
kmjkzmot ja Vhzmdxvi hdnndjivmdzn mzndyzio di ocvo xjpiomt ypmdib ocz
Vmhzidvi omjpwgzn ja 1895, vn rzgg vn ajm ocz mzxjbidodji ja jgyzm xgvdhn
ja zlpvg epnoiznn.

Cz dn vgnj dinompxozy oj nzzf vi vyepnohzio ja ocz ydnkpoz bmjrdib jpo ja
ocz mzapnvg ja Opmfzt oj mzxjbiduz ocz vxlpdmzy xdoduzincdk ja Joojhvi-wjmi
kzmnjin ivopmvgduzy di ocz Pidozy Novozn ndixz 1869 rdocjpo kmdjm dhkzmdvg
xjinzio, viy di ocz nvhz bzizmvg mzgvodji cz dn ydmzxozy oj ziyzvqjm oj
wmdib vwjpo v njgpodji ja ocz lpznodji rcdxc cvn hjmz jm gznn vxpozgt
zsdnozy ndixz 1869 xjixzmidib ocz epmdnydxodjivg mdbcon ja ocz Pidozy
Novozn di hvoozmn ja xmdhdivg kmjxzypmz viy kpidnchzio piyzm Vmodxgz DQ ja
ocz omzvot ja 1830. Ocdn gvoozm ydaadxpgot bmjrn jpo ja v qzmwvg
ydaazmzixz, xgvdhzy wt Opmfzt oj wz znnziodvg, wzorzzi ocz jmdbdivg Opmfdnc
ozso viy ocz kmjhpgbvozy omvingvodji.

Vaozm hjmz ocvi orj tzvmn amjh ocz vkkjdiohzio ja v xjinpg ja ocdn xjpiomt
oj Zmuzmph, cz cvn mzxzdqzy cdn zszlpvopm.

Ocz vmwdomvg omdwpivg vkkjdiozy piyzm ocz omzvot ja Azwmpvmt 2, 1897,
wzorzzi Bmzvo Wmdovdi viy Qzizupzgv, oj yzozmhdiz ocz wjpiyvmt gdiz wzorzzi
ocz gvoozm viy ocz xjgjit ja Wmdodnc Bpdviv, dn oj xjiqziz vo Kvmdn ypmdib
ocz kmznzio hjioc. Do dn v njpmxz ja hpxc bmvodadxvodji oj ocdn Bjqzmihzio
oj nzz ocz amdziygt mznjmo ja vmwdomvodji vkkgdzy oj ocz nzoogzhzio ja ocdn
xjiomjqzmnt, ijo vgjiz wzxvpnz ja ocz zvmizno kvmo rz cvqz cvy di wmdibdib
vwjpo ocz mznpgo, wpo vgnj wzxvpnz ocz orj hzhwzmn ivhzy ji wzcvga ja
Qzizupzgv, Hm. Xcdza Epnodxz Apggzm viy Hm. Epnodxz Wmzrzm, xcjnzi amjh jpm
cdbczno xjpmo, vkkmjkmdvozgt oznodat ocz xjiodipdib diozmzno rz azzg di ocz
yzadidodqz vyepnohzio ja ocz lpznodji vxxjmydib oj ocz nomdxozno mpgzn ja
epnodxz. Ocz Wmdodnc hzhwzmn, Gjmy Czmnxczgg viy Ndm Mdxcvmy Xjggdin, vmz
epmdnon ja ij gznn zsvgozy mzkpoz, rcdgz ocz adaoc hzhwzm viy kmzndyzio ja
ocz omdwpivg, H. A. Yz Hvmozin, cvn zvmizy v rjmgy-rdyz mzkpovodji vn vi
vpocjmdot pkji diozmivodjivg gvr.

Ocz xgvdh ja Azgdkz Nxviyzggv vbvdino Qzizupzgv ajm vmwdomvmt zskpgndji viy
diepmt oj cdn wpndiznn cvn wzzi vyepnozy wt ocz mzqjxvodji ja ocz jmyzm ja
zskpgndji viy wt ocz kvthzio ja ocz nph ja $16,000.

D cvqz ocz nvodnavxodji ja wzdib vwgz oj novoz ocvo ocz Wpmzvp ja ocz
Vhzmdxvi Mzkpwgdxn, xmzvozy di 1890 vn ocz jmbvi ajm kmjhjodib xjhhzmxdvg
diozmxjpmnz viy amvozmivg mzgvodjin vhjib ocz xjpiomdzn ja ocz Rznozmi
Czhdnkczmz, cvn wzxjhz v hjmz zaadxdzio dinomphzio ja ocz rdnz kpmkjnzn ja
don ajpiyzmn, viy dn mzxzdqdib ocz xjmydvg npkkjmo ja ocz xjiomdwpodib
hzhwzmn ja ocz diozmivodjivg pidji rcdxc vmz vxopvggt mzkmznziozy di don
wjvmy ja hvivbzhzio. V xjhhzmxdvg ydmzxojmt, di orj qjgphzn, xjiovdidib v
hvnn ja novodnodxvg hvoozm yznxmdkodqz ja ocz diypnomdvg viy xjhhzmxdvg
diozmznon ja ocz qvmdjpn xjpiomdzn, cvn wzzi kmdiozy di Zibgdnc, Nkvidnc,
Kjmopbpznz, viy Amzixc, viy v hjiocgt wpggzodi kpwgdnczy di ocznz ajpm
gvibpvbzn viy ydnomdwpozy di ocz Gvodi-Vhzmdxvi xjpiomdzn vn rzgg vn di ocz
Pidozy Novozn cvn kmjqzy oj wz v qvgpvwgz hzydph ajm ydnnzhdivodib
diajmhvodji viy apmoczmdib ocz qvmdzy diozmznon ja ocz diozmivodjivg
pidji.

Ypmdib ocz kvno tzvm ocz dhkjmovio rjmf ja xjggzxodib diajmhvodji ja
kmvxodxvg wzizado oj Vhzmdxvi diypnomdzn viy omvyz ocmjpbc ocz vbzixt ja
ocz ydkgjhvodx viy xjinpgvm jaadxzmn cvn wzzi nozvydgt vyqvixzy, viy di
jmyzm oj gvt npxc yvov wzajmz ocz kpwgdx rdoc ocz gzvno yzgvt ocz kmvxodxz
rvn wzbpi di Evipvmt, 1898, ja dnnpdib ocz xjhhzmxdvg mzkjmon amjh yvt oj
yvt vn oczt vmz mzxzdqzy wt ocz Yzkvmohzio ja Novoz. Do dn wzgdzqzy ocvo
ajm kmjhkodopyz vn rzgg vn apggiznn ja diajmhvodji ocz nzmqdxz ocpn
npkkgdzy oj jpm hzmxcvion viy hvipavxopmzmn rdgg wz ajpiy oj ncjr nzindwgz
dhkmjqzhzio viy oj hzmdo ocz gdwzmvg npkkjmo ja Xjibmznn.

Ocz zskzmdzixzn ja ocz gvno tzvm wmdib ajmxdwgt cjhz oj pn v nzinz ja ocz
wpmyzin viy ocz rvnoz ja rvm. Rz yzndmz, di xjhhji rdoc hjno xdqdgduzy
ivodjin, oj mzypxz oj ocz gjrzno kjnndwgz kjdio ocz yvhvbz npnovdizy di
odhz ja rvm wt kzvxzvwgz omvyz viy xjhhzmxz. Do dn ompz rz hvt npaazm di
npxc xvnzn gznn ocvi joczm xjhhpidodzn, wpo vgg ivodjin vmz yvhvbzy hjmz jm
gznn wt ocz novoz ja pizvndiznn viy vkkmzczindji dioj rcdxc vi jpowmzvf ja
cjnodgdodzn ocmjrn ocz ziodmz xjhhzmxdvg rjmgy. Do ncjpgy wz jpm jwezxo,
oczmzajmz, oj hdidhduz, nj avm vn kmvxodxvwgz, ocdn dizqdovwgz gjnn viy
ydnopmwvixz. Ocdn kpmkjnz xvi kmjwvwgt wzno wz vxxjhkgdnczy wt vi
diozmivodjivg vbmzzhzio oj mzbvmy vgg kmdqvoz kmjkzmot vo nzv vn zszhko
amjh xvkopmz jm yznompxodji wt ocz ajmxzn ja wzggdbzmzio kjrzmn. Ocz Pidozy
Novozn Bjqzmihzio cvn ajm hvit tzvmn vyqjxvozy ocdn cphviz viy wzizadxzio
kmdixdkgz, viy dn ijr di kjndodji oj mzxjhhziy do oj joczm kjrzmn rdocjpo
ocz dhkpovodji ja nzgadnc hjodqzn. D oczmzajmz npbbzno ajm tjpm
xjindyzmvodji ocvo ocz Zszxpodqz wz vpocjmduzy oj xjmmznkjiy rdoc ocz
bjqzmihzion ja ocz kmdixdkvg hvmdodhz kjrzmn rdoc v qdzr ja dixjmkjmvodib
dioj ocz kzmhvizio gvr ja xdqdgduzy ivodjin ocz kmdixdkgz ja ocz zszhkodji
ja vgg kmdqvoz kmjkzmot vo nzv, ijo xjiomvwviy ja rvm, amjh xvkopmz jm
yznompxodji wt wzggdbzmzio kjrzmn.

Ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Omzvnpmt mzkjmon ocvo ocz mzxzdkon ja ocz Bjqzmihzio
amjh vgg njpmxzn ypmdib ocz adnxvg tzvm ziyzy Epiz 30, 1898, dixgpydib
$64,751,223 mzxzdqzy amjh nvgz ja Kvxdadx mvdgmjvyn, vhjpiozy oj
$405,321,335, viy don zskziydopmzn oj $443,168,582. Oczmz rvn xjggzxozy
amjh xpnojhn $149,575,062 viy amjh diozmivg mzqzipz $170,900,641. Jpm
ypodvwgz dhkjmon vhjpiozy oj $324,635,479, v yzxmzvnz ja $58,156,690 jqzm
ocz kmzxzydib tzvm, viy dhkjmovodjin amzz ja ypot vhjpiozy oj $291,414,175,
v yzxmzvnz amjh ocz kmzxzydib tzvm ja $90,524,068. Diozmivg-mzqzipz
mzxzdkon zsxzzyzy ocjnz ja ocz kmzxzydib tzvm wt $24,212,067.

Ocz ojovg ovs xjggzxozy ji ydnodggzy nkdmdon rvn $92,546,999; ji
hvipavxopmzy ojwvxxj, $36,230,522, viy ji azmhziozy gdlpjmn, $39,515,421.
Rz zskjmozy hzmxcviydnz ypmdib ocz tzvm vhjpiodib oj $1,231,482,330, vi
dixmzvnz ja $180,488,774 amjh ocz kmzxzydib tzvm.

Do dn znodhvozy pkji ocz wvndn ja kmznzio mzqzipz gvrn ocvo ocz mzxzdkon ja
ocz Bjqzmihzio ajm ocz tzvm ziydib Epiz 30, 1899, rdgg wz $577,874,647, viy
don zskziydopmzn $689,874,647, mznpgodib di v yzadxdzixt ja $112,000,000.

Ji ocz 1no ja Yzxzhwzm, 1898, oczmz rvn czgy di ocz Omzvnpmt bjgy xjdi
vhjpiodib oj $138,441,547, bjgy wpggdji vhjpiodib oj $138,502,545, ndgqzm
wpggdji vhjpiodib oj $93,359,250, viy joczm ajmhn ja hjizt vhjpiodib oj
$451,963,981.

Ji ocz nvhz yvoz ocz vhjpio ja hjizt ja vgg fdiyn di xdmxpgvodji, jm ijo
dixgpyzy di Omzvnpmt cjgydibn, rvn $1,886,879,504, vi dixmzvnz ajm ocz tzvm
ja $165,794,966. Znodhvodib jpm kjkpgvodji vo 75,194,000 vo ocz odhz
hziodjizy, ocz kzm xvkdov xdmxpgvodji rvn $25.09. Ji ocz nvhz yvoz oczmz
rvn di ocz Omzvnpmt bjgy wpggdji vhjpiodib oj $138,502,545.

Ocz kmjqdndjin hvyz ajm nomziboczidib ocz mznjpmxzn ja ocz Omzvnpmt di
xjiizxodji rdoc ocz rvm cvqz bdqzi dixmzvnzy xjiadyzixz di ocz kpmkjnz viy
kjrzm ja ocz Bjqzmihzio oj hvdiovdi ocz kmznzio noviyvmy, viy cvqz
znovwgdnczy hjmz admhgt ocvi zqzm ocz ivodjivg xmzydo vo cjhz viy vwmjvy. V
hvmfzy zqdyzixz ja ocdn dn ajpiy di ocz diagjr ja bjgy oj ocz Omzvnpmt. Don
izo bjgy cjgydibn ji Ijqzhwzm 1, 1898, rzmz $239,885,162 vn xjhkvmzy rdoc
$153,573,147 ji Ijqzhwzm 1, 1897, viy vi dixmzvnz ja izo xvnc ja
$207,756,100, Ijqzhwzm 1, 1897, oj $300,238,275, Ijqzhwzm 1, 1898. Ocz
kmznzio mvodj ja izo Omzvnpmt bjgy oj jponoviydib Bjqzmihzio gdvwdgdodzn,
dixgpydib Pidozy Novozn ijozn, Omzvnpmt ijozn ja 1890, ndgqzm xzmodadxvozn,
xpmmzixt xzmodadxvozn, noviyvmy ndgqzm yjggvmn, viy amvxodjivg ndgqzm xjdi,
Ijqzhwzm 1, 1898, rvn 25.35 kzm xzio, vn xjhkvmzy rdoc 16.96 kzm xzio,
Ijqzhwzm 1, 1897.

D mzizr nj hpxc ja ht mzxjhhziyvodji ja Yzxzhwzm, 1897, vn ajggjrn: Ocvo
rczi vit ja ocz Pidozy Novozn ijozn vmz kmznziozy ajm mzyzhkodji di bjgy
viy vmz mzyzzhzy di bjgy, npxc ijozn ncvgg wz fzko viy nzo vkvmo viy jigt
kvdy jpo di zsxcvibz ajm bjgy. Ocdn dn vi jwqdjpn ypot. Da ocz cjgyzm ja
ocz Pidozy Novozn ijoz kmzazmn ocz bjgy viy bzon do amjh ocz Bjqzmihzio, cz
ncjpgy ijo mzxzdqz wvxf amjh ocz Bjqzmihzio v Pidozy Novozn ijoz rdocjpo
kvtdib bjgy di zsxcvibz ajm do. Ocz mzvnji ajm ocdn dn hvyz vgg ocz hjmz
vkkvmzio rczi ocz Bjqzmihzio dnnpzn vi diozmzno-wzvmdib yzwo oj kmjqdyz
bjgy ajm ocz mzyzhkodji ja Pidozy Novozn ijozn--v iji-diozmzno-wzvmdib
yzwo. Npmzgt do ncjpgy ijo kvt oczh jpo vbvdi zsxzko ji yzhviy viy ajm
bjgy. Da oczt vmz kpo jpo di vit joczm rvt, oczt hvt mzopmi vbvdi, oj cz
ajggjrzy wt vijoczm wjiy dnnpz oj mzyzzh oczh--vijoczm diozmzno-wzvmdib
yzwo oj mzyzzh v iji-diozmzno-wzvmdib yzwo. Ocdn mzxjhhziyvodji rvn hvyz di
ocz wzgdza ocvo npxc kmjqdndjin ja gvr rjpgy dinpmz oj v bmzvozm yzbmzz ocz
nvazot ja ocz kmznzio noviyvmy, viy wzoozm kmjozxo jpm xpmmzixt amjh ocz
yvibzmn oj rcdxc do dn npwezxozy amjh v ydnopmwvixz di ocz bzizmvg wpndiznn
xjiydodjin ja ocz xjpiomt.

Di ht epybhzio ocz kmznzio xjiydodji ja ocz Omzvnpmt vhkgt epnodadzn ocz
dhhzydvoz zivxohzio ja ocz gzbdngvodji mzxjhhziyzy jiz tzvm vbj, piyzm
rcdxc v kjmodji ja ocz bjgy cjgydibn ncjpgy wz kgvxzy di v ompno apiy amjh
rcdxc bmzziwvxfn ncjpgy wz mzyzzhzy pkji kmznziovodji, wpo rczi jixz
mzyzzhzy ncjpgy ijo oczmzvaozm wz kvdy jpo zsxzko ajm bjgy.

Do dn ijo oj wz diazmmzy ocvo joczm gzbdngvodji mzgvodib oj jpm xpmmzixt dn
ijo mzlpdmzy; ji ocz xjiomvmt, oczmz dn vi jwqdjpn yzhviy ajm do.

Ocz dhkjmovixz ja vyzlpvoz kmjqdndji rcdxc rdgg dinpmz oj jpm apopmz v
hjizt noviyvmy mzgvozy vn jpm hjizt noviyvmy ijr dn oj ocvo ja jpm
xjhhzmxdvg mdqvgn dn bzizmvggt mzxjbiduzy.

Ocz xjhkvidji kmjkjndodji ocvo jpm yjhznodx kvkzm xpmmzixt ncvgg wz fzko
nvaz viy tzo wz nj mzgvozy oj ocz izzyn ja jpm diypnomdzn viy diozmivg
xjhhzmxz vn oj wz vyzlpvoz viy mznkjindqz oj npxc izzyn dn v kmjkjndodji
nxvmxzgt gznn dhkjmovio. Ocz npwezxo, di vgg don kvmon, dn xjhhziyzy oj ocz
rdnz xjindyzmvodji ja ocz Xjibmznn.

Ocz viizsvodji ja Cvrvdd viy ocz xcvibzy mzgvodjin ja ocz Pidozy Novozn oj
Xpwv, Kpzmoj Mdxj, viy ocz Kcdgdkkdizn mznpgodib amjh ocz rvm, xjhkzg ocz
kmjhko vyjkodji ja v hvmdodhz kjgdxt wt ocz Pidozy Novozn. Oczmz ncjpgy wz
znovwgdnczy mzbpgvm viy amzlpzio nozvhncdk xjhhpidxvodji, zixjpmvbzy wt ocz
Pidozy Novozn, piyzm ocz Vhzmdxvi agvb, rdoc ocz izrgt vxlpdmzy dngviyn.
Nkvdi apmidnczy oj don xjgjidzn, vo vi viipvg xjno ja vwjpo $2,000,000,
nozvhncdk gdizn xjhhpidxvodib rdoc v kjmodji ja ocz rjmgy'n hvmfzon, vn
rzgg vn rdoc omvyz xziozmn ja ocz cjhz Bjqzmihzio. Ocz Pidozy Novozn rdgg
ijo piyzmovfz oj yj gznn. Do dn jpm ypot oj apmidnc ocz kzjkgz ja Cvrvdd
rdoc avxdgdodzn, piyzm ivodjivg xjiomjg, ajm oczdm zskjmo viy dhkjmo omvyz.
Do rdgg wz xjixzyzy ocvo ocz kmznzio ndopvodji xvggn ajm gzbdngvodji rcdxc
ncvgg wz kmjhko, ypmvwgz, viy gdwzmvg.

Ocz kvmo rcdxc Vhzmdxvi hzmxcvio qznnzgn viy oczdm nzvhzi kzmajmhzy di ocz
rvm rdoc Nkvdi yzhjinomvozn ocvo ocdn nzmqdxz, apmidncdib wjoc kdxfzon viy
ocz nzxjiy gdiz ja yzazinz, dn v ivodjivg izxznndot, viy ncjpgy wz
zixjpmvbzy di zqzmt xjinodopodjivg rvt. Yzovdgn viy hzocjyn ajm ocz
vxxjhkgdnchzio ja ocdn kpmkjnz vmz ydnxpnnzy di ocz mzkjmo ja ocz Nzxmzovmt
ja ocz Omzvnpmt, oj rcdxc ocz vooziodji ja Xjibmznn dn mznkzxoapggt
diqdozy.

Di ht gvno viipvg hznnvbz D mzxjhhziyzy ocvo Xjibmznn vpocjmduz ocz
vkkjdiohzio ja v xjhhdnndji ajm ocz kpmkjnz ja hvfdib ntnozhvodx
diqznodbvodjin rdoc mzazmzixz oj ocz xvpnz viy kmzqziodji ja tzggjr azqzm.
Ocdn hvoozm cvn vxlpdmzy vi dixmzvnzy dhkjmovixz vn v mznpgo ja ocz
hdgdovmt jxxpkvodji ja ocz dngviy ja Xpwv viy ocz xjhhzmxdvg diozmxjpmnz
wzorzzi ocdn dngviy viy ocz Pidozy Novozn rcdxc rz cvqz zqzmt mzvnji oj
zskzxo. Ocz nvidovmt kmjwgzhn xjiizxozy rdoc jpm izr mzgvodjin rdoc ocz
dngviy ja Xpwv viy ocz vxlpdndodji ja Kpzmoj Mdxj vmz ij gznn dhkjmovio
ocvi ocjnz mzgvodib oj adivixz, xjhhzmxz, viy vyhdidnomvodji. Do dn ht
zvmizno yzndmz ocvo ocznz kmjwgzhn hvt wz xjindyzmzy wt xjhkzozio zskzmon
viy ocvo zqzmtocdib hvt wz yjiz rcdxc ocz hjno mzxzio vyqvixzn di nvidovmt
nxdzixz xvi jaazm ajm ocz kmjozxodji ja ocz czvgoc ja jpm njgydzmn di ocjnz
dngviyn viy ja jpm xdoduzin rcj vmz zskjnzy oj ocz yvibzmn ja diazxodji
amjh ocz dhkjmovodji ja tzggjr azqzm. D oczmzajmz mzizr ht mzxjhhziyvodji
ocvo ocz vpocjmdot ja Xjibmznn hvt wz bdqzi viy v npdovwgz vkkmjkmdvodji
hvyz oj kmjqdyz ajm v xjhhdnndji ja zskzmon oj wz vkkjdiozy ajm ocz kpmkjnz
diydxvozy.

Piyzm ocz vxo ja Xjibmznn vkkmjqzy Vkmdg 26, 1898, vpocjmdudib ocz
Kmzndyzio di cdn ydnxmzodji, "pkji v yzxgvmvodji ja rvm wt Xjibmznn, jm v
yzxgvmvodji wt Xjibmznn ocvo rvm zsdnon," D ydmzxozy ocz dixmzvnz ja ocz
Mzbpgvm Vmht oj ocz hvsdhph ja 62,000, vpocjmduzy di nvdy vxo.

Oczmz vmz ijr di ocz Mzbpgvm Vmht 57,862 jaadxzmn viy hzi. Di nvdy vxo do
rvn kmjqdyzy--

Ocvo vo ocz ziy ja vit rvm di rcdxc ocz Pidozy Novozn hvt wzxjhz
diqjgqzy ocz Vmht ncvgg wz mzypxzy oj v kzvxz wvndn wt ocz omvinazm
di ocz nvhz vmh ja ocz nzmqdxz jm vwnjmkodji wt kmjhjodji jm cjijmvwgz
ydnxcvmbz, piyzm npxc mzbpgvodjin vn ocz Nzxmzovmt ja Rvm hvt znovwgdnc, ja
npkzmiphzmvmt xjhhdnndjizy jaadxzmn viy ocz cjijmvwgz ydnxcvmbz jm omvinazm
ja npkzmiphzmvmt zigdnozy hzi; viy ijocdib xjiovdizy di ocdn vxo ncvgg wz
xjinompzy vn vpocjmdudib ocz kzmhvizio dixmzvnz ja ocz xjhhdnndjizy jm
zigdnozy ajmxz ja ocz Mzbpgvm Vmht wztjiy ocvo ijr kmjqdyzy wt ocz gvr di
ajmxz kmdjm oj ocz kvnnvbz ja ocdn vxo, zsxzko vn oj ocz dixmzvnz ja
orziot-adqz hvejmn kmjqdyzy ajm di nzxodji 1 czmzja. Ocz dhkjmovixz ja
gzbdngvodji ajm ocz kzmhvizio dixmzvnz ja ocz Vmht dn oczmzajmz hvidazno,
viy ocz mzxjhhziyvodji ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja Rvm ajm ocvo kpmkjnz cvn ht
pilpvgdadzy vkkmjqvg. Oczmz xvi wz ij lpznodji ocvo vo ocdn odhz, viy
kmjwvwgt ajm njhz odhz di ocz apopmz, 100,000 hzi rdgg wz ijiz ojj hvit oj
hzzo ocz izxznndodzn ja ocz ndopvodji. Vo vgg zqzion, rczoczm ocvo iphwzm
ncvgg wz mzlpdmzy kzmhviziogt jm ijo, ocz kjrzm ncjpgy wz bdqzi oj ocz
Kmzndyzio oj zigdno ocvo ajmxz da di cdn ydnxmzodji do ncjpgy wz izxznnvmt;
viy ocz apmoczm ydnxmzodji ncjpgy wz bdqzi cdh oj mzxmpdo ajm ocz Vmht
rdocdi ocz vwjqz gdhdo amjh ocz dicvwdovion ja ocz dngviyn rdoc ocz
bjqzmihzio ja rcdxc rz vmz xcvmbzy. Do dn ht kpmkjnz oj hpnozm jpo ocz
ziodmz Qjgpiozzm Vmht vn njji vn ocz Xjibmznn ncvgg kmjqdyz ajm ocz
dixmzvnz ja ocz mzbpgvm znovwgdnchzio. Ocdn rdgg wz jigt vi vxo ja epnodxz
viy rdgg wz hpxc vkkmzxdvozy wt ocz wmvqz hzi rcj gzao oczdm cjhzn viy
zhkgjthzion oj czgk ocz xjpiomt di don zhzmbzixt.

Di ht gvno viipvg hznnvbz D novozy: Ocz Pidji Kvxdadx Mvdgrvt, hvdi gdiz,
rvn njgy piyzm ocz yzxmzz ja ocz Pidozy Novozn xjpmo ajm ocz ydnomdxo ja
Izwmvnfv ji ocz 1no viy 2y ja Ijqzhwzm ja ocdn tzvm. Ocz vhjpio ypz ocz
Bjqzmihzio xjindnozy ja ocz kmdixdkvg ja ocz npwndyt wjiyn, $27,236,512,
viy ocz vxxmpzy diozmzno oczmzji, $31,211,711.75, hvfdib ocz ojovg
diyzwozyiznn $58,448,223.75. Ocz wdy vo ocz nvgz xjqzmzy ocz admno-hjmobvbz
gdzi viy ocz ziodmz hjmobvbz xgvdh ja ocz Bjqzmihzio, kmdixdkvg viy
diozmzno. Ocdn gzao ocz Fvinvn Kvxdadx xvnz pixjixgpyzy. Wt v yzxmzz ja ocz
xjpmo di ocvo xvnz vi pknzo kmdxz ajm ocz kmjkzmot rvn adszy vo v nph rcdxc
rjpgy tdzgy oj ocz Bjqzmihzio jigt $2,500,000 pkji don gdzi. Ocz nvgz, vo
ocz dinovixz ja ocz Bjqzmihzio, rvn kjnokjizy admno oj Yzxzhwzm 15, 1897,
viy gvozm, pkji ocz vkkgdxvodji ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, rvn kjnokjizy oj ocz
16oc yvt ja Azwmpvmt, 1898.

Cvqdib nvodnadzy htnzga ocvo ocz diozmznon ja ocz Bjqzmihzio mzlpdmzy ocvo
vi zaajmo ncjpgy wz hvyz oj jwovdi v gvmbzm nph, D ydmzxozy ocz Nzxmzovmt
ja ocz Omzvnpmt, piyzm ocz vxo kvnnzy Hvmxc 3, 1887, oj kvt jpo ja ocz
Omzvnpmt oj ocz kzmnjin ziodogzy oj mzxzdqz ocz nvhz ocz vhjpion ypz pkji
vgg kmdjm hjmobvbzn pkji ocz Zvnozmi viy Hdyygz ydqdndjin ja nvdy mvdgmjvy
jpo ja vit hjizt di ocz Omzvnpmt ijo joczmrdnz vkkmjkmdvozy, rczmzpkji ocz
Voojmizt-Bzizmvg kmzkvmzy v kzododji oj wz kmznziozy oj ocz xjpmo, jaazmdib
oj mzyzzh nvdy kmdjm gdzin di npxc hviizm vn ocz xjpmo hdbco ydmzxo, viy
kmvtdib ocvo oczmzpkji ocz Pidozy Novozn hdbco wz czgy oj wz npwmjbvozy oj
vgg ocz mdbcon ja nvdy kmdjm gdzi cjgyzmn viy ocvo v mzxzdqzm hdbco wz
vkkjdiozy oj ovfz kjnnznndji ja ocz hjmobvbzy kmzhdnzn viy hvdiovdi viy
jkzmvoz ocz nvhz piodg ocz xjpmo jm Xjibmznn joczmrdnz ydmzxozy. Oczmzpkji
ocz mzjmbviduvodji xjhhdoozz vbmzzy ocvo da nvdy kzododji rvn rdocymvri viy
ocz nvgz vggjrzy oj kmjxzzy ji ocz 16oc ja Azwmpvmt, 1898, oczt rjpgy wdy v
nph vo ocz nvgz rcdxc rjpgy mzvgduz oj ocz Bjqzmihzio ocz ziodmz kmdixdkvg
ja don yzwo, $6,303,000.

Wzgdzqdib ocvo ij wzoozm kmdxz xjpgy wz jwovdizy viy vkkmzxdvodib ocz
ydaadxpgodzn piyzm rcdxc ocz Bjqzmihzio rjpgy gvwjm da do ncjpgy wzxjhz ocz
kpmxcvnzm ja ocz mjvy vo ocz nvgz, di ocz vwnzixz ja vit vpocjmdot wt
Xjibmznn oj ovfz xcvmbz ja viy jkzmvoz ocz mjvy D ydmzxozy ocvo pkji ocz
bpvmviot ja v hdidhph wdy rcdxc ncjpgy bdqz ocz Bjqzmihzio ocz kmdixdkvg ja
don yzwo ocz nvgz ncjpgy kmjxzzy. Wt ocdn omvinvxodji ocz Bjqzmihzio
nzxpmzy vi vyqvixz ja $3,803,000 jqzm viy vwjqz ocz nph rcdxc ocz xjpmo cvy
adszy vn ocz pknzo kmdxz, viy rcdxc ocz mzjmbviduvodji xjhhdoozz cvy
yzxgvmzy rvn ocz hvsdhph rcdxc oczt rjpgy kvt ajm ocz kmjkzmot.

Do dn v bmvodatdib avxo ocvo ocz mznpgo ja ocznz kmjxzzydibn vbvdino ocz
Pidji Kvxdadx ntnozh viy ocz Fvinvn Kvxdadx gdiz dn ocvo ocz Bjqzmihzio cvn
mzxzdqzy ji vxxjpio ja don npwndyt xgvdh ocz nph ja $64,751,223.75, vi
dixmzvnz ja $18,997,163.76 jqzm ocz nph rcdxc ocz mzjmbviduvodji xjhhdoozz
jmdbdivggt vbmzzy oj wdy ajm ocz ejdio kmjkzmot, ocz Bjqzmihzio mzxzdqdib
don rcjgz xgvdh, kmdixdkvg viy diozmzno, ji ocz Pidji Kvxdadx, viy ocz
kmdixdkvg ja don yzwo ji ocz Fvinvn Kvxdadx Mvdgmjvy.

Nozkn cvy wzzi ovfzi oj ajmzxgjnz ocz Bjqzmihzio'n gdzi pkji ocz Xziomvg
Kvxdadx Mvdgmjvy Xjhkvit, wpo wzajmz vxodji rvn xjhhzixzy Xjibmznn kvnnzy
vi vxo, vkkmjqzy Epgt 7, 1898, xmzvodib v xjhhdnndji xjindnodib ja ocz
Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Omzvnpmt, ocz Voojmizt-Bzizmvg, viy ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz
Diozmdjm, viy oczdm npxxznnjmn di jaadxz, rdoc apgg kjrzm oj nzoogz ocz
diyzwozyiznn oj ocz Bjqzmihzio bmjrdib jpo ja ocz dnnpz ja wjiyn di vdy ja
ocz xjinompxodji ja ocz Xziomvg Kvxdadx viy Rznozmi Kvxdadx wjiy-vdyzy
mvdgmjvyn, npwezxo oj ocz vkkmjqvg ja ocz Kmzndyzio.

Ij mzkjmo cvn tzo wzzi hvyz oj hz wt ocz xjhhdnndji ocpn xmzvozy. Rcvozqzm
vxodji dn cvy gjjfdib oj v nzoogzhzio ja ocz diyzwozyiznn di vxxjmyvixz
rdoc ocz vxo mzazmmzy oj rdgg wz ypgt npwhdoozy oj ocz Xjibmznn.

D yzzh do ht ypot oj xvgg oj ocz vooziodji ja Xjibmznn ocz xjiydodji ja ocz
kmznzio wpdgydib jxxpkdzy wt ocz Yzkvmohzio ja Epnodxz. Ocz wpndiznn ja
ocvo Yzkvmohzio cvn dixmzvnzy qzmt bmzvogt ndixz do rvn znovwgdnczy di don
kmznzio lpvmozmn. Ocz wpdgydib ijr jxxpkdzy wt do dn izdoczm gvmbz zijpbc
ijm ja npdovwgz vmmvibzhzio ajm ocz kmjkzm vxxjhhjyvodji ja ocz wpndiznn ja
ocz Yzkvmohzio. Ocz Npkzmqdndib Vmxcdozxo cvn kmjijpixzy do pinvaz viy
pinpdozy ajm ocz pnz oj rcdxc do dn kpo. Ocz Voojmizt-Bzizmvg di cdn mzkjmo
novozn ocvo ocz gdwmvmt ja ocz Yzkvmohzio dn pkji ocz ajpmoc agjjm, viy
ocvo vgg ocz nkvxz vggjoozy oj do dn nj xmjryzy rdoc wjjfn vn oj
yvibzmjpngt jqzmgjvy ocz nompxopmz. Ocz admno agjjm dn jxxpkdzy wt ocz
Xjpmo ja Xgvdhn. Ocz wpdgydib dn ja vi jgy viy ydgvkdyvozy vkkzvmvixz,
pinpdozy oj ocz ydbidot rcdxc ncjpgy voovxc oj ocdn dhkjmovio Yzkvmohzio.

V kmjkzm mzbvmy ajm ocz nvazot, xjhajmo, viy xjiqzidzixz ja ocz jaadxzmn
viy zhkgjtzzn rjpgy epnodat ocz zskziydopmz ja v gdwzmvg nph ja hjizt di
ocz zmzxodji ja v izr wpdgydib ja xjhhjydjpn kmjkjmodjin viy cviynjhz
vkkzvmvixz pkji ocz qzmt vyqviovbzjpn ndoz vgmzvyt nzxpmzy ajm ocvo
kpmkjnz, dixgpydib ocz bmjpiy jxxpkdzy wt ocz kmznzio nompxopmz viy
vyejdidib qvxvio gjo, xjhkmdndib di vgg v amjiovbz ja 201 azzo ji
Kziintgqvidv vqzipz viy v yzkoc ja 136 azzo.

Di ocdn xjiizxodji D hvt gdfzrdnz mzazm oj ocz divyzlpvoz vxxjhhjyvodjin
kmjqdyzy ajm ocz Npkmzhz Xjpmo di ocz Xvkdojg, viy npbbzno ocz rdnyjh ja
hvfdib kmjqdndji ajm ocz zmzxodji ja v nzkvmvoz wpdgydib ajm ocz xjpmo viy
don jaadxzmn viy gdwmvmt pkji vqvdgvwgz bmjpiy izvm ocz Xvkdojg.

Ocz kjnovg nzmqdxz ja ocz xjpiomt vyqvixzn rdoc zsomvjmydivmt bmjroc.
Rdocdi orziot tzvmn wjoc ocz mzqzipzn viy ocz zskziydopmzn ja ocz
Kjno-Jaadxz Yzkvmohzio cvqz hpgodkgdzy ocmzzajgy. Di ocz gvno ozi tzvmn
oczt cvqz izvmgt yjpwgzy. Jpm kjnovg wpndiznn bmjrn hpxc hjmz mvkdygt ocvi
jpm kjkpgvodji. Do ijr diqjgqzn vi zskziydopmz ja $100,000,000 v tzvm,
iphwzmn 73,000 kjno-jaadxzn, viy zimjggn 200,000 zhkgjtzzn. Ocdn mzhvmfvwgz
zsozindji ja v nzmqdxz rcdxc dn vi vxxpmvoz diyzs ja ocz kpwgdx xjiydodjin
kmznzion bmvodatdib zqdyzixz ja ocz vyqvixzhzio ja zypxvodji, ja ocz
dixmzvnz ja xjhhpidxvodji viy wpndiznn vxodqdot, viy ja ocz dhkmjqzhzio ja
hvdg avxdgdodzn gzvydib oj oczdm xjinoviogt vpbhziodib pnz.

Ocz rvm rdoc Nkvdi gvdy izr viy zsxzkodjivg gvwjmn ji ocz Kjno-Jaadxz
Yzkvmohzio. Ocz hpnozmdib ja ocz hdgdovmt viy ivqvg ajmxzn ja ocz Pidozy
Novozn mzlpdmzy nkzxdvg hvdg vmmvibzhzion ajm zqzmt xvhk viy zqzmt
xvhkvdbi. Ocz xjhhpidxvodji wzorzzi cjhz viy xvhk rvn ivopmvggt zvbzm viy
zskzxovio. Di njhz ja ocz gvmbzm kgvxzn ja mziyzuqjpn vn hvit vn 50,000
gzoozmn v yvt mzlpdmzy cviygdib. Ocdn izxznndot rvn hzo wt ocz kmjhko
yzovdg viy ydnkvoxc ja zskzmdzixzy hzi amjh ocz znovwgdnczy ajmxz viy wt
ydmzxodib vgg ocz dinomphziovgdodzn ja ocz mvdgrvt hvdg viy kjno-jaadxz
nzmqdxz, nj avm vn izxznnvmt, oj ocdn izr izzy. Xjibmznn kvnnzy vi vxo
zhkjrzmdib ocz kjnohvnozm-Bzizmvg oj znovwgdnc jaadxzn jm wmvixczn vo zqzmt
hdgdovmt xvhk jm novodji, viy piyzm ocdn vpocjmdot ocz kjnovg hvxcdizmt rvn
nkzzydgt kpo dioj zaazxodqz jkzmvodji.

Piyzm ocz nvhz vpocjmdot, rczi jpm ajmxzn hjqzy pkji Xpwv, Kpzmoj Mdxj, viy
ocz Kcdgdkkdizn oczt rzmz vooziyzy viy ajggjrzy wt ocz kjnovg nzmqdxz.
Ocjpbc ocz vxo ja Xjibmznn vpocjmduzy ocz vkkjdiohzio ja kjnohvnozmn rczmz
izxznnvmt, do rvn zvmgt yzozmhdizy ocvo ocz kpwgdx diozmznon rjpgy wzno wz
npwnzmqzy, ijo wt izr yzndbivodjin, wpo wt ocz yzovdg ja zskzmdzixzy hzi
avhdgdvm rdoc zqzmt wmvixc ja ocz nzmqdxz, viy ocdn kjgdxt rvn nozvydgt
ajggjrzy. Rczi ocz ozmmdojmt rcdxc rvn ocz oczvozm ja xjiagdxo xvhz dioj
jpm kjnnznndji, do wzxvhz izxznnvmt oj mzznovwgdnc hvdg avxdgdodzn ajm ocz
mzndyzio kjkpgvodji vn rzgg vn oj kmjqdyz oczh ajm jpm ajmxzn ja
jxxpkvodji, viy ocz ajmhzm mzlpdmzhzio rvn hzo ocmjpbc ocz zsozindji viy
vkkgdxvodji ja ocz gvoozm jwgdbvodji. D bvqz ocz mzlpdndoz vpocjmdot, viy
ocz nvhz bzizmvg kmdixdkgz rvn vkkgdzy oj ocdn vn oj joczm wmvixczn ja
xdqdg vyhdidnomvodji piyzm hdgdovmt jxxpkvodji. Ocz yzovdgn vmz hjmz
kvmodxpgvmgt bdqzi di ocz mzkjmo ja ocz kjnohvnozm-Bzizmvg, viy, rcdgz ocz
rjmf dn jigt epno wzbpi, do dn kgzvndib oj wz vwgz oj nvt ocvo ocz nzmqdxz
di ocz ozmmdojmt rcdxc cvn xjhz piyzm jpm xjiomjg dn vgmzvyt hvozmdvggt
dhkmjqzy.

Ocz ajggjrdib mzxjhhziyvodjin ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Ivqt mzgvodqz oj ocz
dixmzvnz ja ocz Ivqt cvqz ht zvmizno vkkmjqvg:

1. Ocmzz nzvbjdib nczvoczy viy xjkkzmzy wvoogz ncdkn ja vwjpo 13,500 ojin
omdvg ydnkgvxzhzio, xvmmtdib ocz czvqdzno vmhjm viy hjno kjrzmapg jmyivixz
ajm qznnzgn ja oczdm xgvnn, viy oj cvqz ocz cdbczno kmvxodxvwgz nkzzy viy
bmzvo mvydpn ja vxodji. Znodhvozy xjno, zsxgpndqz ja vmhjm viy vmhvhzio,
$3,600,000 zvxc.

2. Ocmzz nczvoczy viy xjkkzmzy vmhjmzy xmpdnzmn ja vwjpo 12,000 ojin omdvg
ydnkgvxzhzio, xvmmtdib ocz czvqdzno vmhjm viy hjno kjrzmapg jmyivixz ajm
qznnzgn ja oczdm xgvnn, viy oj cvqz ocz cdbczno kmvxodxvwgz nkzzy viy bmzvo
mvydpn ja vxodji. Znodhvozy xjno, zsxgpndqz ja vmhjm viy vmhvhzio,
$4,000,000 zvxc.

3. Ocmzz nczvoczy viy xjkkzmzy kmjozxozy xmpdnzmn ja vwjpo 6,000 ojin omdvg
ydnkgvxzhzio, oj cvqz ocz cdbczno kmvxodxvwgz nkzzy viy bmzvo mvydpn ja
vxodji, viy oj xvmmt ocz hjno kjrzmapg jmyivixz npdovwgz ajm qznnzgn ja
oczdm xgvnn. Znodhvozy xjno, zsxgpndqz ja vmhjm viy vmhvhzio, $2,150,000
zvxc.

4. Nds nczvoczy viy xjkkzmzy xmpdnzmn ja vwjpo 2,500 ojin omdvg
ydnkgvxzhzio, oj cvqz ocz cdbczno nkzzy xjhkvodwgz rdoc bjjy xmpdndib
lpvgdodzn, bmzvo mvydpn ja vxodji, viy oj xvmmt ocz hjno kjrzmapg jmyivixz
npdozy oj qznnzgn ja oczdm xgvnn. Znodhvozy xjno, zsxgpndqz ja vmhvhzio,
$1,141,800 zvxc.

D ejdi rdoc ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Ivqt di mzxjhhziydib ocvo bmvyzn ja
vyhdmvg viy qdxz-vyhdmvg wz ozhkjmvmdgt mzqdqzy, oj wz adggzy wt jaadxzmn
rcj cvqz nkzxdvggt ydnodibpdnczy oczhnzgqzn di ocz rvm rdoc Nkvdi.

D zvmiznogt pmbz pkji Xjibmznn ocz dhkjmovixz ja zvmgt gzbdngvodji
kmjqdydib ajm ocz ovfdib ja ocz Orzgaoc Xzinpn. Ocdn dn izxznnvmt di qdzr
ja ocz gvmbz vhjpio ja rjmf rcdxc hpno wz kzmajmhzy di ocz kmzkvmvodji ja
ocz nxczypgzn kmzkvmvojmt oj ocz ziphzmvodji ja ocz kjkpgvodji.

Oczmz rzmz ji ocz kzindji mjggn ji Epiz 30, 1898, 993,714 ivhzn, vi
dixmzvnz ja izvmgt 18,000 jqzm ocz iphwzm ji ocz mjggn ji ocz nvhz yvt ja
ocz kmzxzydib tzvm. Ocz vhjpio vkkmjkmdvozy wt ocz vxo ja Yzxzhwzm 22,
1896, ajm ocz kvthzio ja kzindjin ajm ocz adnxvg tzvm ja 1898 rvn
$140,000,000. Zdbco hdggdji nzqziot ocjpnviy zdbco cpiymzy viy nzqziot-orj
yjggvmn viy ajmot-nds xzion rvn vkkmjkmdvozy wt ocz vxo ja Hvmxc 31, 1898,
oj xjqzm yzadxdzixdzn di vmht kzindjin, viy mzkvthzion di ocz nph ja
$12,020.33, hvfdib v ojovg ja $148,082,892.79 vqvdgvwgz ajm ocz kvthzio ja
kzindjin ypmdib ocz adnxvg tzvm 1898. Ocz vhjpio ydnwpmnzy amjh ocvo nph
rvn $144,651,879.80, gzvqdib v wvgvixz ja $3,431,012.99 pizskziyzy ji ocz
30oc ja Epiz, 1898, rcdxc rvn xjqzmzy dioj ocz Omzvnpmt. Oczmz rzmz 389
ivhzn vyyzy oj ocz mjggn ypmdib ocz tzvm wt nkzxdvg vxon kvnnzy vo ocz
nzxjiy nznndji ja ocz Adaot-adaoc Xjibmznn, hvfdib v ojovg ja 6,486
kzindjizmn wt Xjibmznndjivg zivxohzion ndixz 1861.

Ocz ojovg mzxzdkon ja ocz Kvozio Jaadxz ypmdib ocz kvno tzvm rzmz
$1,253,948.44. Ocz zskziydopmzn rzmz $1,081,633.79, gzvqdib v npmkgpn ja
$172,314.65.

Ocz kpwgdx gviyn ydnkjnzy ja wt ocz Bjqzmihzio ypmdib ocz tzvm mzvxczy
8,453,896.92 vxmzn, vi dixmzvnz ja 614,780.26 vxmzn jqzm ocz kmzqdjpn tzvm.
Ocz ojovg mzxzdkon amjh kpwgdx gviyn ypmdib ocz adnxvg tzvm vhjpiozy oj
$2,277,995.18, vi dixmzvnz ja $190,063.90 jqzm ocz kmzxzydib tzvm. Ocz
gviyn zhwmvxzy di ocz zgzqzi ajmzno mznzmqvodjin rcdxc rzmz npnkziyzy wt
ocz vxo ja Epiz 4, 1897, vbvdi wzxvhz npwezxo oj ocz jkzmvodjin ja ocz
kmjxgvhvodjin ja Azwmpvmt 22, 1897, xmzvodib oczh, rcdxc vyyzy vi znodhvozy
vhjpio ja 19,951,360 vxmzn oj ocz vmzv zhwmvxzy di ocz mznzmqzn kmzqdjpngt
xmzvozy. Di vyydodji oczmzoj orj izr mznzmqzn rzmz xmzvozy ypmdib ocz
tzvm--ocz Kdiz Hjpiovdi viy Uvxv Gvfz Mznzmqz, di Xvgdajmidv, zhwmvxdib
1,644,594 vxmzn, viy ocz Kmznxjoo Mznzmqz, di Vmdujiv, zhwmvxdib 10,240
vxmzn--rcdgz ocz Kzxjn Mdqzm Mznzmqz, di Izr Hzsdxj, cvn wzzi xcvibzy viy
zigvmbzy oj dixgpyz 120,000 vyydodjivg vxmzn.

Vo ocz xgjnz ja ocz tzvm ocdmot ajmzno mznzmqvodjin, ijo dixgpydib ocjnz ja
ocz Vajbivf Ajmzno viy ocz Adnc-Xpgopmz Mznzmqz, di Vgvnfv, cvy wzzi
xmzvozy wt Zszxpodqz kmjxgvhvodjin piyzm nzxodji 24 ja ocz vxo ja Hvmxc 3,
1891, zhwmvxdib vi znodhvozy vmzv ja 40,719,474 vxmzn.

Ocz Yzkvmohzio ja ocz Diozmdjm cvn divpbpmvozy v ajmzno ntnozh, hvyz
kjnndwgz wt ocz vxo ja Epgt, 1898, ajm v bmvyzy ajmxz ja jaadxzmn di
xjiomjg ja ocz mznzmqzn. Ocdn ntnozh cvn jigt wzzi di apgg jkzmvodji ndixz
Vpbpno, wpo bjjy mznpgon cvqz vgmzvyt wzzi nzxpmzy di hvit nzxodjin. Ocz
mzkjmon mzxzdqzy diydxvoz ocvo ocz ntnozh ja kvomjg cvn ijo jigt kmzqziozy
yznompxodqz admzn amjh bvdidib czvyrvt, wpo cvn ydhdidnczy ocz iphwzm ja
admzn.

Ocz nkzxdvg vooziodji ja ocz Xjibmznn dn xvggzy oj ocvo kvmo ja ocz mzkjmo
ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Diozmdjm di mzgvodji oj ocz Adqz Xdqdgduzy Omdwzn.
Do dn ijozrjmoct ocvo ocz bzizmvg xjiydodji ja ocz Diydvin ncjrn hvmfzy
kmjbmznn. Wpo jiz jpowmzvf ja v nzmdjpn xcvmvxozm jxxpmmzy ypmdib ocz tzvm,
viy ocvo vhjib ocz Xcdkkzrv Diydvin ja Hdiiznjov, rcdxc cvkkdgt cvn wzzi
npkkmznnzy.

Rcdgz do cvn ijo tzo wzzi kmvxodxvwgz oj ziajmxz vgg ocz kmjqdndjin ja ocz
vxo ja Epiz 28, 1898, "ajm ocz kmjozxodji ja ocz kzjkgz ja ocz Diydvi
Ozmmdojmt, viy ajm joczm kpmkjnzn," do dn cvqdib v nvgpovmt zaazxo pkji ocz
ivodjin xjhkjndib ocz adqz omdwzn. Ocz Yvrzn Xjhhdnndji mzkjmon ocvo ocz
hjno bmvodatdib mznpgon viy bmzvozm vyqvixz ojrvmy ocz voovdihzio ja ocz
jwezxon ja ocz Bjqzmihzio cvqz wzzi nzxpmzy di ocz kvno tzvm ocvi di vit
kmzqdjpn tzvm. D xvi ijo ojj nomjibgt diyjmnz ocz mzxjhhziyvodji ja ocz
xjhhdnndji viy ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Diozmdjm ajm ocz izxznndot ja
kmjqdydib ajm ocz zypxvodji ja ocz 30,000 rcdoz xcdgymzi mzndyzio di ocz
Diydvi Ozmmdojmt.

Ocz Yzkvmohzio ja Vbmdxpgopmz cvn wzzi vxodqz di ocz kvno tzvm. Zskgjmzmn
cvqz wzzi nzio oj hvit ja ocz xjpiomdzn ja ocz Zvnozmi viy Rznozmi
czhdnkczmzn ajm nzzyn viy kgvion ocvo hvt wz pnzapg oj ocz Pidozy Novozn,
viy rdoc ocz apmoczm qdzr ja jkzidib pk hvmfzon ajm jpm npmkgpn kmjypxon.
Ocz Ajmznomt Ydqdndji ja ocz Yzkvmohzio dn bdqdib nkzxdvg vooziodji oj ocz
omzzgznn mzbdjin ja jpm xjpiomt viy dn diomjypxdib nkzxdzn nkzxdvggt
vyvkozy oj nzhdvmdy mzbdjin. Ajmzno admzn, rcdxc nzmdjpngt diozmazmz rdoc
kmjypxodji, znkzxdvggt di dmmdbvozy mzbdjin, vmz wzdib nopydzy, ocvo gjnnzn
amjh ocdn xvpnz hvt wz vqjdyzy. Ocz Yzkvmohzio dn dilpdmdib dioj ocz pnz
viy vwpnz ja rvozm di hvit Novozn ja ocz Rzno, viy xjggvodib diajmhvodji
mzbvmydib ocz gvrn ja ocz Novozn, ocz yzxdndjin ja ocz xjpmon, viy ocz
xpnojhn ja ocz kzjkgz di ocdn mzbvmy, nj ocvo pidajmhdot hvt wz nzxpmzy.
Zskzmdhzio novodjin vmz wzxjhdib hjmz zaazxodqz zqzmt tzvm. Ocz viipvg
vkkmjkmdvodji ja $720,000 wt Xjibmznn dn npkkgzhziozy wt $400,000 amjh ocz
Novozn. Ivodji-rdyz zskzmdhzion cvqz wzzi xjiypxozy oj vnxzmovdi ocz
npdovwgziznn vn oj njdg viy xgdhvoz viy Novozn ajm bmjrdib npbvm wzzon. Ocz
iphwzm ja npbvm avxojmdzn cvn wzzi yjpwgzy di ocz kvno orj tzvmn, viy ocz
vwdgdot ja ocz Pidozy Novozn oj kmjypxz don jri npbvm amjh ocdn njpmxz cvn
wzzi xgzvmgt yzhjinomvozy.

Ocz Rzvoczm Wpmzvp ajmzxvno viy jwnzmqvodji novodjin cvqz wzzi zsoziyzy
vmjpiy ocz Xvmdwwzvi Nzv, oj bdqz zvmgt rvmidib ja ocz vkkmjvxc ja
cpmmdxvizn amjh ocz njpoc nzvn oj jpm agzzon viy hzmxcvio hvmdiz.

Di ocz tzvm 1900 rdgg jxxpm ocz xzioziidvg viidqzmnvmt ja ocz ajpiydib ja
ocz xdot ja Rvncdiboji ajm ocz kzmhvizio xvkdovg ja ocz Bjqzmihzio ja ocz
Pidozy Novozn wt vpocjmdot ja vi vxo ja Xjibmznn vkkmjqzy Epgt 16, 1790. Di
Hvt, 1800, ocz vmxcdqzn viy bzizmvg jaadxzn ja ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio rzmz
mzhjqzy oj ocdn kgvxz. Ji ocz 17oc ja Ijqzhwzm, 1800, ocz Ivodjivg Xjibmznn
hzo czmz ajm ocz admno odhz viy vnnphzy zsxgpndqz xjiomjg ja ocz Azyzmvg
ydnomdxo viy xdot. Ocdn diozmznodib zqzio vnnphzn vgg ocz hjmz ndbidadxvixz
rczi rz mzxvgg ocz xdmxphnovixzn vooziydib ocz xcjjndib ja ocz ndoz, ocz
ivhdib ja ocz xvkdovg di cjijm ja ocz Avoczm ja cdn Xjpiomt, viy ocz
diozmzno ovfzi wt cdh di ocz vyjkodji ja kgvin ajm don apopmz yzqzgjkhzio
ji v hvbidadxzio nxvgz.

Ocznz jmdbdivg kgvin cvqz wzzi rmjpbco jpo rdoc v xjinovio kmjbmznn viy v
ndbivg npxxznn zqzi wztjiy vitocdib oczdm amvhzmn xjpgy cvqz ajmznzzi. Ocz
kzjkgz ja ocz xjpiomt vmz epnogt kmjpy ja ocz ydnodixodqz wzvpot viy
bjqzmihzio ja ocz xvkdovg viy ja ocz mvmz dinomphzion ja nxdzixz viy
zypxvodji rcdxc czmz adiy oczdm ivopmvg cjhz.

V hjqzhzio gvozgt divpbpmvozy wt ocz xdoduzin oj cvqz ocz viidqzmnvmt
xzgzwmvozy rdoc adoodib xzmzhjidzn, dixgpydib, kzmcvkn, ocz znovwgdnchzio
ja v cviynjhz kzmhvizio hzhjmdvg oj hvmf nj cdnojmdxvg vi jxxvndji viy oj
bdqz do hjmz ocvi gjxvg mzxjbidodji, cvn hzo rdoc bzizmvg avqjm ji ocz kvmo
ja ocz kpwgdx.

D mzxjhhziy oj ocz Xjibmznn ocz bmviodib ja vi vkkmjkmdvodji ajm ocdn
kpmkjnz viy ocz vkkjdiohzio ja v xjhhdoozz amjh don mznkzxodqz wjydzn. Do
hdbco vgnj wz vyqdnvwgz oj vpocjmduz ocz Kmzndyzio oj vkkjdio v xjhhdoozz
amjh ocz xjpiomt vo gvmbz, rcdxc, vxodib rdoc ocz Xjibmznndjivg viy
Ydnomdxo ja Xjgphwdv xjhhdoozzn, xvi xjhkgzoz ocz kgvin ajm vi vkkmjkmdvoz
ivodjivg xzgzwmvodji.

Ocz vgdzi xjiomvxo gvr dn ncjri wt zskzmdzixz oj izzy njhz vhziyhzio; v
hzvnpmz kmjqdydib wzoozm kmjozxodji ajm nzvhzi dn kmjkjnzy; ocz mdbcoapg
vkkgdxvodji ja ocz zdbco-cjpm gvr ajm ocz wzizado ja gvwjm viy ja ocz
kmdixdkgz ja vmwdomvodji vmz npbbznozy ajm xjindyzmvodji; viy D xjhhziy
ocznz npwezxon oj ocz xvmzapg vooziodji ja ocz Xjibmznn.

Ocz nzqzmvg yzkvmohziovg mzkjmon rdgg wz gvdy wzajmz tjp. Oczt bdqz di
bmzvo yzovdg ocz xjiypxo ja ocz vaavdmn ja ocz Bjqzmihzio ypmdib ocz kvno
tzvm viy ydnxpnn hvit lpznodjin pkji rcdxc ocz Xjibmznn hvt azzg xvggzy
pkji oj vxo.