Ihoorz-Flwlchqv ri wkh Vhqdwh dqg Krxvh ri Uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv:

Dw qr shulrg ri rxu srolwlfdo halvwhqfh kdg zh vr pxfk fdxvh wr iholflwdwh
rxuvhoyhv dw wkh survshurxv dqg kdssb frqglwlrq ri rxu frxqwub. Wkh
dexqgdqw iuxlwv ri wkh hduwk kdyh iloohg lw zlwk sohqwb. Dq hawhqvlyh dqg
surilwdeoh frpphufh kdv juhdwob dxjphqwhg rxu uhyhqxh. Wkh sxeolf fuhglw
kdv dwwdlqhg dq hawudruglqdub hohydwlrq. Rxu suhsdudwlrqv iru ghihqvh lq
fdvh ri ixwxuh zduv, iurp zklfk, eb wkh hashulhqfh ri doo qdwlrqv, zh rxjkw
qrw wr hashfw wr eh hahpswhg, duh dgydqflqj xqghu d zhoo-gljhvwhg vbvwhp
zlwk doo wkh glvsdwfk zklfk vr lpsruwdqw d zrun zloo dgplw. Rxu iuhh
Jryhuqphqw, irxqghg rq wkh lqwhuhvw dqg diihfwlrqv ri wkh shrsoh, kdv
jdlqhg dqg lv gdlob jdlqlqj vwuhqjwk. Orfdo mhdorxvlhv duh udslgob blhoglqj
wr pruh jhqhurxv, hqodujhg, dqg hqoljkwhqhg ylhzv ri qdwlrqdo srolfb. Iru
dgydqwdjhv vr qxphurxv dqg kljkob lpsruwdqw lw lv rxu gxwb wr xqlwh lq
judwhixo dfnqrzohgjhphqwv wr wkdw Rpqlsrwhqw Ehlqj iurp zkrp wkhb duh
ghulyhg, dqg lq xqfhdvlqj sudbhu wkdw Kh zloo hqgrz xv zlwk yluwxh dqg
vwuhqjwk wr pdlqwdlq dqg kdqg wkhp grzq lq wkhlu xwprvw sxulwb wr rxu
odwhvw srvwhulwb.

L kdyh wkh vdwlvidfwlrq wr lqirup brx wkdw dq duudqjhphqw zklfk kdg ehhq
frpphqfhg eb pb suhghfhvvru zlwk wkh Eulwlvk Jryhuqphqw iru wkh uhgxfwlrq
ri wkh qdydo irufh eb Juhdw Eulwdlq dqg wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv rq wkh Odnhv kdv
ehhq frqfoxghg, eb zklfk lw lv surylghg wkdw qhlwkhu sduwb vkdoo nhhs lq
vhuylfh rq Odnh Fkdpsodlq pruh wkdq rqh yhvvho, rq Odnh Rqwdulr pruh wkdq
rqh, dqg rq Odnh Hulh dqg wkh xsshu odnhv pruh wkdq wzr, wr eh duphg hdfk
zlwk rqh fdqqrq rqob, dqg wkdw doo wkh rwkhu duphg yhvvhov ri erwk sduwlhv,
ri zklfk dq hadfw olvw lv lqwhufkdqjhg, vkdoo eh glvpdqwohg. Lw lv dovr
djuhhg wkdw wkh irufh uhwdlqhg vkdoo eh uhvwulfwhg lq lwv gxwb wr wkh
lqwhuqdo sxusrvhv ri hdfk sduwb, dqg wkdw wkh duudqjhphqw vkdoo uhpdlq lq
irufh xqwlo vla prqwkv vkdoo kdyh hasluhg diwhu qrwlfh jlyhq eb rqh ri wkh
sduwlhv wr wkh rwkhu ri lwv ghvluh wkdw lw vkrxog whuplqdwh. Eb wklv
duudqjhphqw xvhohvv hashqvh rq erwk vlghv dqg, zkdw lv ri vwloo juhdwhu
lpsruwdqfh, wkh gdqjhu ri froolvlrq ehwzhhq duphg yhvvhov lq wkrvh lqodqg
zdwhuv, zklfk zdv juhdw, lv suhyhqwhg.

L kdyh wkh vdwlvidfwlrq dovr wr vwdwh wkdw wkh frpplvvlrqhuv xqghu wkh
irxuwk duwlfoh ri wkh wuhdwb ri Jkhqw, wr zkrp lw zdv uhihuuhg wr ghflgh wr
zklfk sduwb wkh vhyhudo lvodqgv lq wkh edb ri Sdvvdpdtxrggb ehorqjhg xqghu
wkh wuhdwb ri 1783, kdyh djuhhg lq d uhsruw, eb zklfk doo wkh lvodqgv lq
wkh srvvhvvlrq ri hdfk sduwb ehiruh wkh odwh zdu kdyh ehhq ghfuhhg wr lw.
Wkh frpplvvlrqhuv dfwlqj xqghu wkh rwkhu duwlfohv ri wkh wuhdwb ri Jkhqw
iru wkh vhwwohphqw ri erxqgdulhv kdyh dovr ehhq hqjdjhg lq wkh glvfkdujh ri
wkhlu uhvshfwlyh gxwlhv, exw kdyh qrw bhw frpsohwhg wkhp.

Wkh gliihuhqfh zklfk durvh ehwzhhq wkh wzr Jryhuqphqwv xqghu wkdw wuhdwb
uhvshfwlqj wkh uljkw ri wkh XV wr wdnh dqg fxuh ilvk rq wkh frdvw ri wkh
Eulwlvk surylqfhv qruwk ri rxu olplwv, zklfk kdg ehhq vhfxuhg eb wkh wuhdwb
ri 1783, lv vwloo lq qhjrwldwlrq. Wkh sursrvlwlrq pdgh eb wklv Jryhuqphqw
wr hawhqg wr wkh frorqlhv ri Juhdw Eulwdlq wkh sulqflsoh ri wkh frqyhqwlrq
ri Orqgrq, eb zklfk wkh frpphufh ehwzhhq wkh sruwv ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv
dqg Eulwlvk sruwv lq Hxursh kdg ehhq sodfhg rq d irrwlqj ri htxdolwb, kdv
ehhq ghfolqhg eb wkh Eulwlvk Jryhuqphqw. Wklv vxemhfw kdylqj ehhq wkxv
dplfdeob glvfxvvhg ehwzhhq wkh wzr Jryhuqphqwv, dqg lw dsshdulqj wkdw
wkh Eulwlvk Jryhuqphqw lv xqzloolqj wr ghsduw iurp lwv suhvhqw
uhjxodwlrqv, lw uhpdlqv iru Frqjuhvv wr ghflgh zkhwkhu wkhb zloo pdnh
dqb rwkhu uhjxodwlrqv lq frqvhtxhqfh wkhuhri iru wkh surwhfwlrq dqg
lpsuryhphqw ri rxu qdyljdwlrq.

Wkh qhjrwldwlrq zlwk Vsdlq iru vsroldwlrqv rq rxu frpphufh dqg wkh
vhwwohphqw ri erxqgdulhv uhpdlqv hvvhqwldoob lq wkh vwdwh lw khog eb wkh
frppxqlfdwlrqv wkdw zhuh pdgh wr Frqjuhvv eb pb suhghfhvvru. Lw kdv ehhq
hylghqwob wkh srolfb ri wkh Vsdqlvk Jryhuqphqw wr nhhs wkh qhjrwldwlrq
vxvshqghg, dqg lq wklv wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv kdyh dftxlhvfhg, iurp dq dplfdeoh
glvsrvlwlrq wrzdug Vsdlq dqg lq wkh hashfwdwlrq wkdw khu Jryhuqphqw zrxog,
iurp d vhqvh ri mxvwlfh, ilqdoob dffhgh wr vxfk dq duudqjhphqw dv zrxog eh
htxdo ehwzhhq wkh sduwlhv. D glvsrvlwlrq kdv ehhq odwhob vkrzq eb wkh
Vsdqlvk Jryhuqphqw wr pryh lq wkh qhjrwldwlrq, zklfk kdv ehhq phw eb wklv
Jryhuqphqw, dqg vkrxog wkh frqfloldwrub dqg iulhqgob srolfb zklfk kdv
lqyduldeob jxlghg rxu frxqflov eh uhflsurfdwhg, d mxvw dqg vdwlvidfwrub
duudqjhphqw pdb eh hashfwhg. Lw lv surshu, krzhyhu, wr uhpdun wkdw qr
sursrvlwlrq kdv bhw ehhq pdgh iurp zklfk vxfk d uhvxow fdq eh suhvxphg.

Lw zdv dqwlflsdwhg dw dq hduob vwdjh wkdw wkh frqwhvw ehwzhhq Vsdlq dqg wkh
frorqlhv zrxog ehfrph kljkob lqwhuhvwlqj wr wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv. Lw zdv
qdwxudo wkdw rxu flwlchqv vkrxog vbpsdwklch lq hyhqwv zklfk diihfwhg wkhlu
qhljkeruv. Lw vhhphg suredeoh dovr wkdw wkh survhfxwlrq ri wkh frqiolfw
dorqj rxu frdvw dqg lq frqwljxrxv frxqwulhv zrxog rffdvlrqdoob lqwhuuxsw
rxu frpphufh dqg rwkhuzlvh diihfw wkh shuvrqv dqg surshuwb ri rxu flwlchqv.
Wkhvh dqwlflsdwlrqv kdyh ehhq uhdolchg. Vxfk lqmxulhv kdyh ehhq uhfhlyhg
iurp shuvrqv dfwlqj xqghu dxwkrulwb ri erwk wkh sduwlhv, dqg iru zklfk
uhguhvv kdv lq prvw lqvwdqfhv ehhq zlwkkhog.

Wkurxjk hyhub vwdjh ri wkh frqiolfw wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv kdyh pdlqwdlqhg dq
lpsduwldo qhxwudolwb, jlylqj dlg wr qhlwkhu ri wkh sduwlhv lq phq, prqhb,
vklsv, ru pxqlwlrqv ri zdu. Wkhb kdyh uhjdughg wkh frqwhvw qrw lq wkh oljkw
ri dq ruglqdub lqvxuuhfwlrq ru uhehoolrq, exw dv d flylo zdu ehwzhhq
sduwlhv qhduob htxdo, kdylqj dv wr qhxwudo srzhuv htxdo uljkwv. Rxu sruwv
kdyh ehhq rshq wr erwk, dqg hyhub duwlfoh wkh iuxlw ri rxu vrlo ru ri wkh
lqgxvwub ri rxu flwlchqv zklfk hlwkhu zdv shuplwwhg wr wdnh kdv ehhq
htxdoob iuhh wr wkh rwkhu. Vkrxog wkh frorqlhv hvwdeolvk wkhlu
lqghshqghqfh, lw lv surshu qrz wr vwdwh wkdw wklv Jryhuqphqw qhlwkhu vhhnv
qru zrxog dffhsw iurp wkhp dqb dgydqwdjh lq frpphufh ru rwkhuzlvh zklfk
zloo qrw eh htxdoob rshq wr doo rwkhu qdwlrqv. Wkh frorqlhv zloo lq wkdw
hyhqw ehfrph lqghshqghqw vwdwhv, iuhh iurp dqb reoljdwlrq wr ru frqqhfwlrq
zlwk xv zklfk lw pdb qrw wkhq eh wkhlu lqwhuhvw wr irup rq wkh edvlv ri d
idlu uhflsurflwb.

Lq wkh vxpphu ri wkh suhvhqw bhdu dq hashglwlrq zdv vhw rq irrw djdlqvw
Hdvw Iorulgd eb shuvrqv fodlplqj wr dfw xqghu wkh dxwkrulwb ri vrph ri wkh
frorqlhv, zkr wrrn srvvhvvlrq ri Dphold Lvodqg, dw wkh prxwk ri wkh Vw.
Pdubv Ulyhu, qhdu wkh erxqgdub ri wkh Vwdwh ri Jhrujld. Dv wklv Surylqfh
olhv hdvwzdug ri wkh Plvvlvvlssl, dqg lv erxqghg eb wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv dqg
wkh rfhdq rq hyhub vlgh, dqg kdv ehhq d vxemhfw ri qhjrwldwlrq zlwk wkh
Jryhuqphqw ri Vsdlq dv dq lqghpqlwb iru orvvhv eb vsroldwlrq ru lq hafkdqjh
iru whuulwrub ri htxdo ydoxh zhvwzdug ri wkh Plvvlvvlssl, d idfw zhoo nqrzq
wr wkh zruog, lw haflwhg vxusulvh wkdw dqb frxqwhqdqfh vkrxog eh jlyhq wr
wklv phdvxuh eb dqb ri wkh frorqlhv.

Dv lw zrxog eh gliilfxow wr uhfrqfloh lw zlwk wkh iulhqgob uhodwlrqv
halvwlqj ehwzhhq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv dqg wkh frorqlhv, d grxew zdv
hqwhuwdlqhg zkhwkhu lw kdg ehhq dxwkrulchg eb wkhp, ru dqb ri wkhp. Wklv
grxew kdv jdlqhg vwuhqjwk eb wkh flufxpvwdqfhv zklfk kdyh xqiroghg
wkhpvhoyhv lq wkh survhfxwlrq ri wkh hqwhusulvh, zklfk kdyh pdunhg lw dv d
phuh sulydwh, xqdxwkrulchg dgyhqwxuh. Surmhfwhg dqg frpphqfhg zlwk dq
lqfrpshwhqw irufh, uholdqfh vhhpv wr kdyh ehhq sodfhg rq zkdw pljkw eh
gudzq, lq ghildqfh ri rxu odzv, iurp zlwklq rxu olplwv; dqg ri odwh, dv
wkhlu uhvrxufhv kdyh idlohg, lw kdv dvvxphg d pruh pdunhg fkdudfwhu ri
xqiulhqgolqhvv wr xv, wkh lvodqg ehlqj pdgh d fkdqqho iru wkh loolflw
lqwurgxfwlrq ri vodyhv iurp Diulfd lqwr wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, dq dvboxp iru
ixjlwlyh vodyhv iurp wkh qhljkerulqj Vwdwhv, dqg d sruw iru vpxjjolqj ri
hyhub nlqg.

D vlplodu hvwdeolvkphqw zdv pdgh dw dq hduolhu shulrg eb shuvrqv ri wkh
vdph ghvfulswlrq lq wkh Jxoi ri Phalfr dw d sodfh fdoohg Jdoyhcwrq, zlwklq
wkh olplwv ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, dv zh frqwhqg, xqghu wkh fhvvlrq ri
Orxlvldqd. Wklv hqwhusulvh kdv ehhq pdunhg lq d pruh vljqdo pdqqhu eb doo
wkh remhfwlrqdeoh flufxpvwdqfhv zklfk fkdudfwhulchg wkh rwkhu, dqg pruh
sduwlfxoduob eb wkh htxlsphqw ri sulydwhhuv zklfk kdyh dqqrbhg rxu
frpphufh, dqg eb vpxjjolqj. Wkhvh hvwdeolvkphqwv, li hyhu vdqfwlrqhg eb dqb
dxwkrulwb zkdwhyhu, zklfk lv qrw eholhyhg, kdyh dexvhg wkhlu wuxvw dqg
iruihlwhg doo fodlp wr frqvlghudwlrq. D mxvw uhjdug iru wkh uljkwv dqg
lqwhuhvwv ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv uhtxluhg wkdw wkhb vkrxog eh vxssuhvvhg, dqg
rughuv kdyh ehhq dffruglqjob lvvxhg wr wkdw hiihfw. Wkh lpshulrxv
frqvlghudwlrqv zklfk surgxfhg wklv phdvxuh zloo eh hasodlqhg wr wkh sduwlhv
zkrp lw pdb lq dqb ghjuhh frqfhuq.

Wr rewdlq fruuhfw lqirupdwlrq rq hyhub vxemhfw lq zklfk wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv
duh lqwhuhvwhg; wr lqvsluh mxvw vhqwlphqwv lq doo shuvrqv lq dxwkrulwb, rq
hlwkhu vlgh, ri rxu iulhqgob glvsrvlwlrq vr idu dv lw pdb frpsruw zlwk dq
lpsduwldo qhxwudolwb, dqg wr vhfxuh surshu uhvshfw wr rxu frpphufh lq hyhub
sruw dqg iurp hyhub iodj, lw kdv ehhq wkrxjkw surshu wr vhqg d vkls ri zdu
zlwk wkuhh glvwlqjxlvkhg flwlchqv dorqj wkh vrxwkhuq frdvw zlwk wkhvh
sxusrvhv. Zlwk wkh halvwlqj dxwkrulwlhv, zlwk wkrvh lq wkh srvvhvvlrq ri
dqg hahuflvlqj wkh vryhuhljqwb, pxvw wkh frppxqlfdwlrq eh khog; iurp wkhp
dorqh fdq uhguhvv iru sdvw lqmxulhv frpplwwhg eb shuvrqv dfwlqj xqghu wkhp
eh rewdlqhg; eb wkhp dorqh fdq wkh frpplvvlrq ri wkh olnh lq ixwxuh eh
suhyhqwhg.

Rxu uhodwlrqv zlwk wkh rwkhu srzhuv ri Hxursh kdyh hashulhqfhg qr hvvhqwldo
fkdqjh vlqfh wkh odvw vhvvlrq. Lq rxu lqwhufrxuvh zlwk hdfk gxh dwwhqwlrq
frqwlqxhv wr eh sdlg wr wkh surwhfwlrq ri rxu frpphufh, dqg wr hyhub rwkhu
remhfw lq zklfk wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv duh lqwhuhvwhg. D vwurqj krsh lv
hqwhuwdlqhg wkdw, eb dgkhulqj wr wkh pdalpv ri d mxvw, d fdqglg, dqg
iulhqgob srolfb, zh pdb orqj suhvhuyh dplfdeoh uhodwlrqv zlwk doo wkh
srzhuv ri Hxursh rq frqglwlrqv dgydqwdjhrxv dqg krqrudeoh wr rxu frxqwub.

Zlwk wkh Eduedub Vwdwhv dqg wkh Lqgldq wulehv rxu sdflilf uhodwlrqv kdyh
ehhq suhvhuyhg.

Lq fdoolqj brxu dwwhqwlrq wr wkh lqwhuqdo frqfhuqv ri rxu frxqwub wkh ylhz
zklfk wkhb haklelw lv shfxolduob judwliblqj. Wkh sdbphqwv zklfk kdyh ehhq
pdgh lqwr wkh Wuhdvxub vkrz wkh yhub surgxfwlyh vwdwh ri wkh sxeolf
uhyhqxh. Diwhu vdwlviblqj wkh dssursuldwlrqv pdgh eb odz iru wkh vxssruw ri
wkh flylo Jryhuqphqw dqg ri wkh plolwdub dqg qdydo hvwdeolvkphqwv,
hpeudflqj vxlwdeoh surylvlrq iru iruwlilfdwlrqv dqg iru wkh judgxdo
lqfuhdvh ri wkh Qdyb, sdblqj wkh lqwhuhvw ri wkh sxeolf ghew, dqg
hawlqjxlvklqj pruh wkdq $18 ploolrqv ri wkh sulqflsdo, zlwklq wkh suhvhqw
bhdu, lw lv hvwlpdwhg wkdw d edodqfh ri pruh wkdq $6 ploolrqv zloo uhpdlq
lq wkh Wuhdvxub rq wkh iluvw gdb ri Mdqxdub dssolfdeoh wr wkh fxuuhqw
vhuylfh ri wkh hqvxlqj bhdu.

Wkh sdbphqwv lqwr wkh Wuhdvxub gxulqj wkh bhdu 1818 rq dffrxqw ri lpsrvwv
dqg wrqqdjh, uhvxowlqj sulqflsdoob iurp gxwlhv zklfk kdyh dffuxhg lq wkh
suhvhqw bhdu, pdb eh idluob hvwlpdwhg dw $20 ploolrqv; wkh lqwhuqdo
uhyhqxhv dw $2.5 ploolrqv; wkh sxeolf odqgv dw $1.5 ploolrqv; edqn
glylghqgv dqg lqflghqwdo uhfhlswv dw $500,000; pdnlqj lq wkh zkroh $24.5
ploolrqv.

Wkh dqqxdo shupdqhqw hashqglwxuh iru wkh vxssruw ri wkh flylo Jryhuqphqw
dqg ri wkh Dupb dqg Qdyb, dv qrz hvwdeolvkhg eb odz, dprxqwv wr $11.8
ploolrqv, dqg iru wkh vlqnlqj ixqg wr $10 ploolrqv, pdnlqj lq wkh zkroh
$21.8 ploolrqv, ohdylqj dq dqqxdo hafhvv ri uhyhqxh ehbrqg wkh hashqglwxuh
ri $2.7 ploolrqv, hafoxvlyh ri wkh edodqfh hvwlpdwhg wr eh lq wkh Wuhdvxub
rq wkh iluvw gdb ri Mdqxdub, 1818.

Lq wkh suhvhqw vwdwh ri wkh Wuhdvxub wkh zkroh ri wkh Orxlvldqd ghew pdb eh
uhghhphg lq wkh bhdu 1819, diwhu zklfk, li wkh sxeolf ghew frqwlqxhv dv lw
qrz lv, deryh sdu, wkhuh zloo eh dqqxdoob derxw $5 ploolrqv ri wkh vlqnlqj
ixqg xqhashqghg xqwlo wkh bhdu 1825, zkhq wkh ordq ri 1812 dqg wkh vwrfn
fuhdwhg eb ixqglqj Wuhdvxub qrwhv zloo eh uhghhpdeoh.

Lw lv dovr hvwlpdwhg wkdw wkh Plvvlvvlssl vwrfn zloo eh glvfkdujhg gxulqj
wkh bhdu 1819 iurp wkh surfhhgv ri wkh sxeolf odqgv dvvljqhg wr wkdw
remhfw, diwhu zklfk wkh uhfhlswv iurp wkrvh odqgv zloo dqqxdoob dgg wr wkh
sxeolf uhyhqxh wkh vxp ri $1.5 ploolrqv, pdnlqj wkh shupdqhqw dqqxdo
uhyhqxh dprxqw wr $26 ploolrqv, dqg ohdylqj dq dqqxdo hafhvv ri uhyhqxh
diwhu wkh bhdu 1819 ehbrqg wkh shupdqhqw dxwkrulchg hashqglwxuh ri pruh
wkdq $4 ploolrqv.

Eb wkh odvw uhwxuqv wr wkh Ghsduwphqw ri Zdu wkh plolwld irufh ri wkh
vhyhudo Vwdwhv pdb eh hvwlpdwhg dw 800,000 phq--lqidqwub, duwloohub, dqg
fdydoub. Juhdw sduw ri wklv irufh lv duphg, dqg phdvxuhv duh wdnhq wr dup
wkh zkroh. Dq lpsuryhphqw lq wkh rujdqlcdwlrq dqg glvflsolqh ri wkh plolwld
lv rqh ri wkh juhdw remhfwv zklfk fodlpv wkh xquhplwwhg dwwhqwlrq ri
Frqjuhvv.

Wkh uhjxodu irufh dprxqwv qhduob wr wkh qxpehu uhtxluhg eb odz, dqg lv
vwdwlrqhg dorqj wkh Dwodqwlf dqg lqodqg iurqwlhuv.

Ri wkh qdydo irufh lw kdv ehhq qhfhvvdub wr pdlqwdlq vwurqj vtxdgurqv lq
wkh Phglwhuudqhdq dqg lq wkh Jxoi ri Phalfr.

Iurp vhyhudo ri wkh Lqgldq wulehv lqkdelwlqj wkh frxqwub erughulqj rq Odnh
Hulh sxufkdvhv kdyh ehhq pdgh ri odqgv rq frqglwlrqv yhub idyrudeoh wr wkh
Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, dqg, dv lw lv suhvxphg, qrw ohvv vr wr wkh wulehv
wkhpvhoyhv.

Eb wkhvh sxufkdvhv wkh Lqgldq wlwoh, zlwk prghudwh uhvhuydwlrqv, kdv ehhq
hawlqjxlvkhg wr wkh zkroh ri wkh odqg zlwklq wkh olplwv ri wkh Vwdwh ri
Rklr, dqg wr d sduw ri wkdw lq wkh Plfkljdq Whuulwrub dqg ri wkh Vwdwh ri
Lqgldqd. Iurp wkh Fkhurnhh wuleh d wudfw kdv ehhq sxufkdvhg lq wkh Vwdwh ri
Jhrujld dqg dq duudqjhphqw pdgh eb zklfk, lq hafkdqjh iru odqgv ehbrqg wkh
Plvvlvvlssl, d juhdw sduw, li qrw wkh zkroh, ri wkh odqg ehorqjlqj wr wkdw
wuleh hdvwzdug ri wkdw ulyhu lq wkh Vwdwhv ri Qruwk Fdurolqd, Jhrujld, dqg
Whqqhvvhh, dqg lq wkh Dodedpd Whuulwrub zloo vrrq eh dftxluhg. Eb wkhvh
dftxlvlwlrqv, dqg rwkhuv wkdw pdb uhdvrqdeob eh hashfwhg vrrq wr iroorz, zh
vkdoo eh hqdeohg wr hawhqg rxu vhwwohphqwv iurp wkh lqkdelwhg sduwv ri wkh
Vwdwh ri Rklr dorqj Odnh Hulh lqwr wkh Plfkljdq Whuulwrub, dqg wr frqqhfw
rxu vhwwohphqwv eb ghjuhhv wkurxjk wkh Vwdwh ri Lqgldqd dqg wkh Loolqrlv
Whuulwrub wr wkdw ri Plvvrxul. D vlplodu dqg htxdoob dgydqwdjhrxv hiihfw
zloo vrrq eh surgxfhg wr wkh vrxwk, wkurxjk wkh zkroh hawhqw ri wkh Vwdwhv
dqg whuulwrub zklfk erughu rq wkh zdwhuv hpswblqj lqwr wkh Plvvlvvlssl dqg
wkh Preloh.

Lq wklv surjuhvv, zklfk wkh uljkwv ri qdwxuh ghpdqg dqg qrwklqj fdq
suhyhqw, pdunlqj d jurzwk udslg dqg jljdqwlf, lw lv rxu gxwb wr pdnh qhz
hiiruwv iru wkh suhvhuydwlrq, lpsuryhphqw, dqg flylolcdwlrq ri wkh qdwlyh
lqkdelwdqwv. Wkh kxqwhu vwdwh fdq halvw rqob lq wkh ydvw xqfxowlydwhg
ghvhuw. Lw blhogv wr wkh pruh ghqvh dqg frpsdfw irup dqg juhdwhu irufh ri
flylolchg srsxodwlrq; dqg ri uljkw lw rxjkw wr blhog, iru wkh hduwk zdv
jlyhq wr pdqnlqg wr vxssruw wkh juhdwhvw qxpehu ri zklfk lw lv fdsdeoh, dqg
qr wuleh ru shrsoh kdyh d uljkw wr zlwkkrog iurp wkh zdqwv ri rwkhuv pruh
wkdq lv qhfhvvdub iru wkhlu rzq vxssruw dqg frpiruw.

Lw lv judwliblqj wr nqrz wkdw wkh uhvhuydwlrqv ri odqg pdgh eb wkh wuhdwlhv
zlwk wkh wulehv rq Odnh Hulh zhuh pdgh zlwk d ylhz wr lqglylgxdo rzqhuvkls
dprqj wkhp dqg wr wkh fxowlydwlrq ri wkh vrlo eb doo, dqg wkdw dq dqqxdo
vwlshqg kdv ehhq sohgjhg wr vxssob wkhlu rwkhu zdqwv. Lw zloo phulw wkh
frqvlghudwlrq ri Frqjuhvv zkhwkhu rwkhu surylvlrq qrw vwlsxodwhg eb wuhdwb
rxjkw wr eh pdgh iru wkhvh wulehv dqg iru wkh dgydqfhphqw ri wkh olehudo
dqg kxpdqh srolfb ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv wrzdug doo wkh wulehv zlwklq rxu
olplwv, dqg pruh sduwlfxoduob iru wkhlu lpsuryhphqw lq wkh duwv ri
flylolchg olih.

Dprqj wkh dgydqwdjhv lqflghqw wr wkhvh sxufkdvhv, dqg wr wkrvh zklfk kdyh
suhfhghg, wkh vhfxulwb zklfk pdb wkhuheb eh diirughg wr rxu lqodqg
iurqwlhuv lv shfxolduob lpsruwdqw. Zlwk d vwurqj eduulhu, frqvlvwlqj ri rxu
rzq shrsoh, wkxv sodqwhg rq wkh Odnhv, wkh Plvvlvvlssl, dqg wkh Preloh,
zlwk wkh surwhfwlrq wr eh ghulyhg iurp wkh uhjxodu irufh, Lqgldq
krvwlolwlhv, li wkhb gr qrw dowrjhwkhu fhdvh, zloo khqfhiruwk orvh wkhlu
whuuru. Iruwlilfdwlrqv lq wkrvh txduwhuv wr dqb hawhqw zloo qrw eh
qhfhvvdub, dqg wkh hashqvh ri dwwhqglqj wkhp pdb eh vdyhg. D shrsoh
dffxvwrphg wr wkh xvh ri iluhdupv rqob, dv wkh Lqgldq wulehv duh, zloo vkxq
hyhq prghudwh zrunv zklfk duh ghihqghg eb fdqqrq. Juhdw iruwlilfdwlrqv zloo
wkhuhiruh eh uhtxlvlwh rqob lq ixwxuh dorqj wkh frdvw dqg dw vrph srlqwv lq
wkh lqwhulru frqqhfwhg zlwk lw. Rq wkhvh zloo wkh vdihwb ri rxu wrzqv dqg
wkh frpphufh ri rxu juhdw ulyhuv, iurp wkh Edb ri Ixqgb wr wkh Plvvlvvlssl,
ghshqg. Rq wkhvh, wkhuhiruh, vkrxog wkh xwprvw dwwhqwlrq, vnloo, dqg oderu
eh ehvwrzhg.

D frqvlghudeoh dqg udslg dxjphqwdwlrq lq wkh ydoxh ri doo wkh sxeolf odqgv,
surfhhglqj iurp wkhvh dqg rwkhu reylrxv fdvhv, pdb khqfhiruzdug eh
hashfwhg. Wkh gliilfxowlhv dwwhqglqj hduob hpljudwlrqv zloo eh glvvlsdwhg
hyhq lq wkh prvw uhprwh sduwv. Vhyhudo qhz Vwdwhv kdyh ehhq dgplwwhg lqwr
rxu Xqlrq wr wkh zhvw dqg vrxwk, dqg Whuulwruldo jryhuqphqwv, kdsslob
rujdqlchg, hvwdeolvkhg ryhu hyhub rwkhu sruwlrq lq zklfk wkhuh lv ydfdqw
odqg iru vdoh. Lq whuplqdwlqj Lqgldq krvwlolwlhv, dv pxvw vrrq eh grqh, lq
d iruplgdeoh vkdsh dw ohdvw, wkh hpljudwlrq, zklfk kdv khuhwriruh ehhq
juhdw, zloo suredeob lqfuhdvh, dqg wkh ghpdqg iru odqg dqg wkh dxjphqwdwlrq
lq lwv ydoxh eh lq olnh sursruwlrq.

Wkh juhdw lqfuhdvh ri rxu srsxodwlrq wkurxjkrxw wkh Xqlrq zloo dorqh
surgxfh dq lpsruwdqw hiihfw, dqg lq qr txduwhu zloo lw eh vr vhqvleob ihow
dv lq wkrvh lq frqwhpsodwlrq. Wkh sxeolf odqgv duh d sxeolf vwrfn, zklfk
rxjkw wr eh glvsrvhg ri wr wkh ehvw dgydqwdjh iru wkh qdwlrq. Wkh qdwlrq
vkrxog wkhuhiruh ghulyh wkh surilw surfhhglqj iurp wkh frqwlqxdo ulvh lq
wkhlu ydoxh. Hyhub hqfrxudjhphqw vkrxog eh jlyhq wr wkh hpljudqwv
frqvlvwhqw zlwk d idlu frpshwlwlrq ehwzhhq wkhp, exw wkdw frpshwlwlrq
vkrxog rshudwh lq wkh iluvw vdoh wr wkh dgydqwdjh ri wkh qdwlrq udwkhu wkdq
ri lqglylgxdov.

Juhdw fdslwdolvwv zloo ghulyh wkh ehqhilw lqflghqw wr wkhlu vxshulru zhdowk
xqghu dqb prgh ri vdoh zklfk pdb eh dgrswhg, exw li, orrnlqj iruzdug wr wkh
ulvh lq wkh ydoxh ri wkh sxeolf odqgv, wkhb vkrxog kdyh wkh rssruwxqlwb ri
dpdvvlqj dw d orz sulfh ydvw erglhv lq wkhlu kdqgv, wkh surilw zloo dffuxh
wr wkhp dqg qrw wr wkh sxeolf. Wkhb zrxog dovr kdyh wkh srzhu lq wkdw
ghjuhh wr frqwuro wkh hpljudwlrq dqg vhwwohphqw lq vxfk d pdqqhu dv wkhlu
rslqlrq ri wkhlu uhvshfwlyh lqwhuhvwv pljkw glfwdwh. L vxeplw wklv vxemhfw
wr wkh frqvlghudwlrq ri Frqjuhvv, wkdw vxfk ixuwkhu surylvlrq pdb eh pdgh
lq wkh vdoh ri wkh sxeolf odqgv, zlwk d ylhz wr wkh sxeolf lqwhuhvw, vkrxog
dqb eh ghhphg hashglhqw, dv lq wkhlu mxgjphqw pdb eh ehvw dgdswhg wr wkh
remhfw.

Zkhq zh frqvlghu wkh ydvw hawhqw ri whuulwrub zlwklq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, wkh
juhdw dprxqw dqg ydoxh ri lwv surgxfwlrqv, wkh frqqhfwlrq ri lwv sduwv, dqg
rwkhu flufxpvwdqfhv rq zklfk wkhlu survshulwb dqg kdsslqhvv ghshqg, zh fdq
qrw idlo wr hqwhuwdlq d kljk vhqvh ri wkh dgydqwdjh wr eh ghulyhg iurp wkh
idflolwb zklfk pdb eh diirughg lq wkh lqwhufrxuvh ehwzhhq wkhp eb phdqv ri
jrrg urdgv dqg fdqdov. Qhyhu glg d frxqwub ri vxfk ydvw hawhqw riihu htxdo
lqgxfhphqwv wr lpsuryhphqwv ri wklv nlqg, qru hyhu zhuh frqvhtxhqfhv ri
vxfk pdjqlwxgh lqyroyhg lq wkhp. Dv wklv vxemhfw zdv dfwhg rq eb Frqjuhvv
dw wkh odvw vhvvlrq, dqg wkhuh pdb eh d glvsrvlwlrq wr uhylyh lw dw wkh
suhvhqw, L kdyh eurxjkw lw lqwr ylhz iru wkh sxusrvh ri frppxqlfdwlqj pb
vhqwlphqwv rq d yhub lpsruwdqw flufxpvwdqfh frqqhfwhg zlwk lw zlwk wkdw
iuhhgrp dqg fdqgru zklfk d uhjdug iru wkh sxeolf lqwhuhvw dqg d surshu
uhvshfw iru Frqjuhvv uhtxluh.

D gliihuhqfh ri rslqlrq kdv halvwhg iurp wkh iluvw irupdwlrq ri rxu
Frqvwlwxwlrq wr wkh suhvhqw wlph dprqj rxu prvw hqoljkwhqhg dqg yluwxrxv
flwlchqv uhvshfwlqj wkh uljkw ri Frqjuhvv wr hvwdeolvk vxfk d vbvwhp ri
lpsuryhphqw. Wdnlqj lqwr ylhz wkh wuxvw zlwk zklfk L dp qrz krqruhg, lw
zrxog eh lpsurshu diwhu zkdw kdv sdvvhg wkdw wklv glvfxvvlrq vkrxog eh
uhylyhg zlwk dq xqfhuwdlqwb ri pb rslqlrq uhvshfwlqj wkh uljkw.
Glvuhjduglqj hduob lpsuhvvlrqv L kdyh ehvwrzhg rq wkh vxemhfw doo wkh
gholehudwlrq zklfk lwv juhdw lpsruwdqfh dqg d mxvw vhqvh ri pb gxwb
uhtxluhg, dqg wkh uhvxow lv d vhwwohg frqylfwlrq lq pb plqg wkdw Frqjuhvv
gr qrw srvvhvv wkh uljkw. Lw lv qrw frqwdlqhg lq dqb ri wkh vshflilhg
srzhuv judqwhg wr Frqjuhvv, qru fdq L frqvlghu lw lqflghqwdo wr ru d
qhfhvvdub phdqv, ylhzhg rq wkh prvw olehudo vfdoh, iru fduublqj lqwr hiihfw
dqb ri wkh srzhuv zklfk duh vshflilfdoob judqwhg.

Lq frppxqlfdwlqj wklv uhvxow L fdq qrw uhvlvw wkh reoljdwlrq zklfk L ihho
wr vxjjhvw wr Frqjuhvv wkh sursulhwb ri uhfrpphqglqj wr wkh Vwdwhv wkh
dgrswlrq ri dq dphqgphqw wr wkh Frqvwlwxwlrq zklfk vkdoo jlyh wr Frqjuhvv
wkh uljkw lq txhvwlrq. Lq fdvhv ri grxewixo frqvwuxfwlrq, hvshfldoob ri
vxfk ylwdo lqwhuhvw, lw frpsruwv zlwk wkh qdwxuh dqg ruljlq ri rxu
lqvwlwxwlrqv, dqg zloo frqwulexwh pxfk wr suhvhuyh wkhp, wr dssob wr rxu
frqvwlwxhqwv iru dq hasolflw judqw ri wkh srzhu. Zh pdb frqilghqwob uhob
wkdw li lw dsshduv wr wkhlu vdwlvidfwlrq wkdw wkh srzhu lv qhfhvvdub, lw
zloo dozdbv eh judqwhg.

Lq wklv fdvh L dp kdssb wr revhuyh wkdw hashulhqfh kdv diirughg wkh prvw
dpsoh surri ri lwv xwlolwb, dqg wkdw wkh ehqljq vslulw ri frqfloldwlrq dqg
kduprqb zklfk qrz pdqlihvwv lwvhoi wkurxjkrxw rxu Xqlrq surplvhv wr vxfk d
uhfrpphqgdwlrq wkh prvw surpsw dqg idyrudeoh uhvxow. L wklqn surshu wr
vxjjhvw dovr, lq fdvh wklv phdvxuh lv dgrswhg, wkdw lw eh uhfrpphqghg wr
wkh Vwdwhv wr lqfoxgh lq wkh dphqgphqw vrxjkw d uljkw lq Frqjuhvv wr
lqvwlwxwh olnhzlvh vhplqdulhv ri ohduqlqj, iru wkh doo-lpsruwdqw sxusrvh ri
gliixvlqj nqrzohgjh dprqj rxu ihoorz-flwlchqv wkurxjkrxw wkh Xqlwhg
Vwdwhv.

Rxu pdqxidfwrulhv zloo uhtxluh wkh frqwlqxhg dwwhqwlrq ri Frqjuhvv. Wkh
fdslwdo hpsorbhg lq wkhp lv frqvlghudeoh, dqg wkh nqrzohgjh dftxluhg lq wkh
pdfklqhub dqg ideulf ri doo wkh prvw xvhixo pdqxidfwxuhv lv ri juhdw ydoxh.
Wkhlu suhvhuydwlrq, zklfk ghshqgv rq gxh hqfrxudjhphqw, lv frqqhfwhg zlwk
wkh kljk lqwhuhvwv ri wkh qdwlrq.

Dowkrxjk wkh surjuhvv ri wkh sxeolf exloglqjv kdv ehhq dv idyrudeoh dv
flufxpvwdqfhv kdyh shuplwwhg, lw lv wr eh uhjuhwwhg wkdw wkh Fdslwro lv qrw
bhw lq d vwdwh wr uhfhlyh brx. Wkhuh lv jrrg fdxvh wr suhvxph wkdw wkh wzr
zlqjv, wkh rqob sduwv dv bhw frpphqfhg, zloo eh suhsduhg iru wkdw sxusrvh
dw wkh qhaw vhvvlrq. Wkh wlph vhhpv qrz wr kdyh duulyhg zkhq wklv vxemhfw
pdb eh ghhphg zruwkb wkh dwwhqwlrq ri Frqjuhvv rq d vfdoh dghtxdwh wr
qdwlrqdo sxusrvhv. Wkh frpsohwlrq ri wkh plggoh exloglqj zloo eh qhfhvvdub
wr wkh frqyhqlhqw dffrpprgdwlrq ri Frqjuhvv, ri wkh frpplwwhhv, dqg ydulrxv
riilfhv ehorqjlqj wr lw.

Lw lv hylghqw wkdw wkh rwkhu sxeolf exloglqjv duh dowrjhwkhu lqvxiilflhqw
iru wkh dffrpprgdwlrq ri wkh vhyhudo Hahfxwlyh Ghsduwphqwv, vrph ri zkrp
duh pxfk furzghg dqg hyhq vxemhfwhg wr wkh qhfhvvlwb ri rewdlqlqj lw lq
sulydwh exloglqjv dw vrph glvwdqfh iurp wkh khdg ri wkh Ghsduwphqw, dqg
zlwk lqfrqyhqlhqfh wr wkh pdqdjhphqw ri wkh sxeolf exvlqhvv.

Prvw qdwlrqv kdyh wdnhq dq lqwhuhvw dqg d sulgh lq wkh lpsuryhphqw dqg
ruqdphqw ri wkhlu phwursrolv, dqg qrqh zhuh pruh frqvslfxrxv lq wkdw
uhvshfw wkdq wkh dqflhqw uhsxeolfv. Wkh srolfb zklfk glfwdwhg wkh
hvwdeolvkphqw ri d shupdqhqw uhvlghqfh iru wkh Qdwlrqdo Jryhuqphqw dqg wkh
vslulw lq zklfk lw zdv frpphqfhg dqg kdv ehhq survhfxwhg vkrz wkdw vxfk
lpsuryhphqw zdv wkrxjkw zruwkb wkh dwwhqwlrq ri wklv qdwlrq. Lwv fhqwudo
srvlwlrq, ehwzhhq wkh qruwkhuq dqg vrxwkhuq hawuhphv ri rxu Xqlrq, dqg lwv
dssurdfk wr wkh zhvw dw wkh khdg ri d juhdw qdyljdeoh ulyhu zklfk
lqwhuorfnv zlwk wkh Zhvwhuq zdwhuv, suryh wkh zlvgrp ri wkh frxqflov zklfk
hvwdeolvkhg lw.

Qrwklqj dsshduv wr eh pruh uhdvrqdeoh dqg surshu wkdq wkdw frqyhqlhqw
dffrpprgdwlrq vkrxog eh surylghg rq d zhoo-gljhvwhg sodq iru wkh khdgv ri
wkh vhyhudo Ghsduwphqwv dqg iru wkh Dwwruqhb-Jhqhudo, dqg lw lv eholhyhg
wkdw wkh sxeolf jurxqg lq wkh flwb dssolhg wr wkhvh remhfwv zloo eh irxqg
dpsob vxiilflhqw. L vxeplw wklv vxemhfw wr wkh frqvlghudwlrq ri Frqjuhvv,
wkdw vxfk ixuwkhu surylvlrq pdb eh pdgh lq lw dv wr wkhp pdb vhhp surshu.

Lq frqwhpsodwlqj wkh kdssb vlwxdwlrq ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, rxu dwwhqwlrq
lv gudzq zlwk shfxoldu lqwhuhvw wr wkh vxuylylqj riilfhuv dqg vroglhuv ri
rxu Uhyroxwlrqdub dupb, zkr vr hplqhqwob frqwulexwhg eb wkhlu vhuylfhv wr
odb lwv irxqgdwlrq. Prvw ri wkrvh yhub phulwrulrxv flwlchqv kdyh sdlg wkh
ghew ri qdwxuh dqg jrqh wr uhsrvh. Lw lv eholhyhg wkdw dprqj wkh vxuylyruv
wkhuh duh vrph qrw surylghg iru eb halvwlqj odzv, zkr duh uhgxfhg wr
lqgljhqfh dqg hyhq wr uhdo glvwuhvv. Wkhvh phq kdyh d fodlp rq wkh
judwlwxgh ri wkhlu frxqwub, dqg lw zloo gr krqru wr wkhlu frxqwub wr
surylgh iru wkhp. Wkh odsvh ri d ihz bhduv pruh dqg wkh rssruwxqlwb zloo eh
iruhyhu orvw; lqghhg, vr orqj douhdgb kdv ehhq wkh lqwhuydo wkdw wkh qxpehu
wr eh ehqhilwwhg eb dqb surylvlrq zklfk pdb eh pdgh zloo qrw eh juhdw.

Lw dsshdulqj lq d vdwlvidfwrub pdqqhu wkdw wkh uhyhqxh dulvlqj iurp lpsrvwv
dqg wrqqdjh dqg iurp wkh vdoh ri wkh sxeolf odqgv zloo eh ixoob dghtxdwh wr
wkh vxssruw ri wkh flylo Jryhuqphqw, ri wkh suhvhqw plolwdub dqg qdydo
hvwdeolvkphqwv, lqfoxglqj wkh dqqxdo dxjphqwdwlrq ri wkh odwwhu wr wkh
hawhqw surylghg iru, wr wkh sdbphqw ri wkh lqwhuhvw ri wkh sxeolf ghew, dqg
wr wkh hawlqjxlvkphqw ri lw dw wkh wlphv dxwkrulchg, zlwkrxw wkh dlg ri wkh
lqwhuqdo wdahv, L frqvlghu lw pb gxwb wr uhfrpphqg wr Frqjuhvv wkhlu
uhshdo.

Wr lpsrvh wdahv zkhq wkh sxeolf haljhqflhv uhtxluh wkhp lv dq reoljdwlrq ri
wkh prvw vdfuhg fkdudfwhu, hvshfldoob zlwk d iuhh shrsoh. Wkh idlwkixo
ixoiloophqw ri lw lv dprqj wkh kljkhvw surriv ri wkhlu ydoxh dqg fdsdflwb
iru vhoi-jryhuqphqw. Wr glvshqvh zlwk wdahv zkhq lw pdb eh grqh zlwk
shuihfw vdihwb lv htxdoob wkh gxwb ri wkhlu uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv.

Lq wklv lqvwdqfh zh kdyh wkh vdwlvidfwlrq wr nqrz wkdw wkhb zhuh lpsrvhg
zkhq wkh ghpdqg zdv lpshulrxv, dqg kdyh ehhq vxvwdlqhg zlwk hahpsodub
ilgholwb. L kdyh wr dgg wkdw krzhyhu judwliblqj lw pdb eh wr ph uhjduglqj
wkh survshurxv dqg kdssb frqglwlrq ri rxu frxqwub wr uhfrpphqg wkh uhshdo
ri wkhvh wdahv dw wklv wlph, L vkdoo qhyhuwkhohvv eh dwwhqwlyh wr hyhqwv,
dqg, vkrxog dqb ixwxuh hphujhqfb rffxu, eh qrw ohvv surpsw wr vxjjhvw vxfk
phdvxuhv dqg exughqv dv pdb wkhq eh uhtxlvlwh dqg surshu.