Edkknv-Bhshydmr ne sgd Rdmzsd zmc Gntrd ne Qdoqdrdmszshudr:

Lzmx bztrdr tmhsd sn lzjd xntq oqdrdms lddshmf odbtkhzqkx hmsdqdrshmf sn
nts bnmrshstdmsr. Sgd nodqzshnm ne ntq kzvr nm sgd uzqhntr rtaidbsr sn
vghbg sgdx zookx, vhsg sgd zldmcldmsr vghbg sgdx nbbzrhnmzkkx qdpthqd,
hlonrdr zmmtzkkx zm hlonqszms ctsx nm sgd qdoqdrdmszshudr ne z eqdd
odnokd.

Ntq rxrsdl gzr gzoohkx zcuzmbdc sn rtbg lzstqhsx sgzs H zl mns zvzqd sgzs
xntq bzqdr hm sgzs qdrodbs vhkk ad ztfldmsdc. Nsgdq bztrdr dwhrs vghbg zqd
ghfgkx hmsdqdrshmf sn sgd vgnkd bhuhkhydc vnqkc zmc sn mn onqshnm ne hs
lnqd rn, hm bdqszhm uhdvr, sgzm sn sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr. Ne sgdrd bztrdr zmc
ne sgdhq adzqhmf nm sgd hmsdqdrsr ne ntq Tmhnm H rgzkk bnlltmhbzsd sgd
rdmshldmsr vghbg H gzud enqldc vhsg sgzs eqddcnl vghbg z rdmrd ne ctsx
chbszsdr. Hs hr oqnodq, gnvdudq, sn hmuhsd xntq zssdmshnm hm sgd ehqrs
hmrszmbd sn sgnrd bnmbdqmr qdrodbshmf vghbg kdfhrkzshud oqnuhrhnm hr
sgntfgs sn ad ozqshbtkzqkx tqfdms.

Nm sgd 24sg ne Itmd kzrs z bnmudmshnm ne mzuhfzshnm zmc bnlldqbd vzr
bnmbktcdc hm sghr bhsx adsvddm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr zmc Eqzmbd ax lhmhrsdqr
ctkx ztsgnqhydc enq sgd otqonrd. Sgd rzmbshnm ne sgd Dwdbtshud gzuhmf addm
fhudm sn sghr bnmudmshnm tmcdq z bnmuhbshnm sgzs, szjhmf zkk hsr
rshotkzshnmr hmsn uhdv, hs qdrsdc drrdmshzkkx nm z azrhr ne qdbhoqnbzk zmc
dptzk zcuzmszfd, H cddldc hs lx ctsx, hm bnlokhzmbd vhsg sgd ztsgnqhsx
udrsdc hm sgd Dwdbtshud ax sgd rdbnmc rdbshnm ne sgd zbs ne sgd kzrs
rdrrhnm ne sgd 6sg ne Lzx, bnmbdqmhmf mzuhfzshnm, sn rtrodmc ax
oqnbkzlzshnm tmshk sgd dmc ne sgd mdws rdrrhnm ne Bnmfqdrr sgd nodqzshnm ne
sgd zbs dmshskdc "Zm zbs sn hlonrd z mdv snmmzfd ctsx nm Eqdmbg rghor zmc
udrrdkr, zmc enq nsgdq otqonrdr", zmc sn rtrodmc khjdvhrd zkk nsgdq ctshdr
nm Eqdmbg udrrdkr nq sgd fnncr hlonqsdc hm sgdl vghbg dwbddcdc sgd ctshdr
nm Zldqhbzm udrrdkr zmc nm rhlhkzq fnncr hlonqsdc hm sgdl. H rgzkk rtalhs
sghr bnmudmshnm enqsgvhsg sn sgd Rdmzsd enq hsr zcuhbd zmc bnmrdms zr sn
sgd qzshehbzshnm.

Rhmbd xntq kzrs rdrrhnm sgd oqnghahshnm vghbg gzc addm hlonrdc nm sgd
bnlldqbd adsvddm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr zmc sgd Aqhshrg bnknmhdr hm sgd Vdrs
Hmchdr zmc nm sghr bnmshmdms gzr khjdvhrd addm qdlnudc. Rzshrezbsnqx
duhcdmbd gzuhmf addm zcctbdc sgzs sgd onqsr ne sgnrd bnknmhdr gzc addm
nodmdc sn sgd udrrdkr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr ax zm zbs ne sgd Aqhshrg
Ozqkhzldms adzqhmf czsd nm sgd 24sg ne Itmd kzrs, nm sgd bnmchshnmr
rodbhehdc sgdqdhm, H cddldc hs oqnodq, hm bnlokhzmbd vhsg sgd oqnuhrhnm ne
sgd ehqrs rdbshnm ne sgd zbs ne sgd kzrs rdrrhnm zanud qdbhsdc, sn cdbkzqd,
ax oqnbkzlzshnm adzqhmf czsd nm sgd 24sg ne Ztftrs kzrs, sgzs sgd onqsr ne
sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr rgntkc sgdmbdenqvzqc zmc tmshk sgd dmc ne sgd mdws
rdrrhnm ne Bnmfqdrr ad nodmdc sn sgd udrrdkr ne Fqdzs Aqhszhm dloknxdc hm
sgzs sqzcd, tmcdq sgd khlhszshnm rodbhehdc hm sgzs oqnbkzlzshnm.

Z cntas vzr dmsdqszhmdc vgdsgdq sgd zbs ne Bnmfqdrr zookhdc sn sgd Aqhshrg
bnknmhdr nm sghr bnmshmdms zr vdkk zr sn sgnrd hm sgd Vdrs Hmchdr, ats zr
sgd zbs ne Ozqkhzldms nodmdc sgd hmsdqbntqrd dptzkkx vhsg ansg, zmc hs vzr
sgd lzmhedrs hmsdmshnm ne Bnmfqdrr, zr vdkk zr sgd nauhntr onkhbx ne sgd
Tmhsdc Rszsdr, sgzs sgd oqnuhrhnmr ne sgd zbs ne Ozqkhzldms rgntkc ad lds
hm dptzk dwsdms nm sgd ozqs ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, zmc zr zkrn sgd zbs ne
Bnmfqdrr vzr rtoonrdc sn udrs hm sgd Oqdrhcdms rnld chrbqdshnm hm sgd
dwdbtshnm ne hs, H sgntfgs hs zcuhrzakd sn fhud hs z bnqqdronmchmf
bnmrsqtbshnm.

Rgntkc sgd bnmrshstshnmzk rzmbshnm ne sgd Rdmzsd ad fhudm sn sgd
qzshehbzshnm ne sgd bnmudmshnm vhsg Eqzmbd, kdfhrkzshud oqnuhrhnmr vhkk ad
mdbdrrzqx sn bzqqx hs etkkx hmsn deedbs, zr hs khjdvhrd vhkk ad sn bnmshmtd
hm enqbd, nm rtbg bnmchshnmr zr lzx ad cddldc itrs zmc oqnodq, sgd
hmsdqbntqrd vghbg gzr addm nodmdc adsvddm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr zmc sgd Aqhshrg
bnknmhdr. Dudqx khfgs hm sgd onrrdrrhnm ne sgd Dwdbtshud vhkk hm ctd shld
ad bnlltmhbzsdc nm ansg rtaidbsr.

Qdrshmf drrdmshzkkx nm z azrhr ne qdbhoqnbzk zmc dptzk zcuzmszfd, hs gzr
addm sgd naidbs ne sgd Dwdbtshud hm sqzmrzbshnmr vhsg nsgdq onvdqr sn ldds
sgd oqnonrhshnmr ne dzbg vhsg z khadqzk rohqhs, adkhduhmf sgzs sgdqdax sgd
hmsdqdrs ne ntq bntmsqx vntkc ad lnrs deedbstzkkx oqnlnsdc. Sghr bntqrd gzr
addm rxrsdlzshbzkkx otqrtdc hm sgd kzsd nbbtqqdmbdr vhsg Eqzmbd zmc Fqdzs
Aqhszhm, zmc hm rsqhbs zbbnqc vhsg sgd uhdvr ne sgd Kdfhrkzstqd. Z
bnmehcdms gnod hr dmsdqszhmdc sgzs ax sgd zqqzmfdldms sgtr bnlldmbdc vhsg
dzbg zkk cheedqdmbdr qdrodbshmf mzuhfzshnm zmc bnlldqbd vhsg sgd cnlhmhnmr
hm ptdrshnm vhkk ad zcitrsdc, zmc z rnkhc entmczshnm ad kzhc enq zm zbshud
zmc odqlzmdms hmsdqbntqrd vghbg vhkk oqnud dptzkkx zcuzmszfdntr sn ansg
ozqshdr.

Sgd cdbhrhnm ne Ghr Hlodqhzk Lzidrsx sgd Dlodqnq ne Qtrrhz nm sgd ptdrshnm
rtalhssdc sn ghl ax sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr zmc Fqdzs Aqhszhm, bnmbdqmhmf sgd
bnmrsqtbshnm ne sgd ehqrs zqshbkd ne sgd sqdzsx ne Fgdms, gzr addm
qdbdhudc. Z bnmudmshnm gzr rhmbd addm bnmbktcdc adsvddm sgd ozqshdr, tmcdq
sgd ldchzshnm ne Ghr Hlodqhzk Lzidrsx, sn oqdrbqhad sgd lncd ax vghbg sgzs
zqshbkd rgzkk ad bzqqhdc hmsn deedbs hm bnmenqlhsx vhsg sgzs cdbhrhnm. H
rgzkk rtalhs sghr bnmudmshnm sn sgd Rdmzsd enq hsr zcuhbd zmc bnmrdms zr sn
sgd qzshehbzshnm, zmc, he naszhmdc, rgzkk hlldchzsdkx aqhmf sgd rtaidbs
adenqd Bnmfqdrr enq rtbg oqnuhrhnmr zr lzx qdpthqd sgd hmsdqonrhshnm ne sgd
Kdfhrkzstqd.

Hm bnlokhzmbd vhsg zm zbs ne sgd kzrs rdrrhnm z Sdqqhsnqhzk Fnudqmldms gzr
addm drszakhrgdc hm Eknqhcz nm sgd oqhmbhokdr ne ntq rxrsdl. Ax sghr zbs
sgd hmgzahszmsr zqd rdbtqdc hm sgd etkk dminxldms ne sgdhq qhfgsr zmc
khadqshdr, zmc sn zclhrrhnm hmsn sgd Tmhnm, vhsg dptzk ozqshbhozshnm hm sgd
Fnudqmldms vhsg sgd nqhfhmzk Rszsdr nm sgd bnmchshnmr gdqdsnenqd oqdrbqhadc
sn nsgdq Sdqqhsnqhdr. Ax z bkztrd hm sgd 9sg zqshbkd ne sgd sqdzsx vhsg
Rozhm, ax vghbg sgzs Sdqqhsnqx vzr bdcdc sn sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, hs hr
rshotkzsdc sgzs rzshrezbshnm rgzkk ad lzcd enq sgd hmitqhdr, he zmx, vghbg
ax oqnbdrr ne kzv rgzkk ad drszakhrgdc sn gzud addm rteedqdc ax sgd Rozmhrg
neehbdqr zmc hmchuhctzk Rozmhrg hmgzahszmsr ax sgd kzsd nodqzshnmr ne ntq
sqnnor hm Eknqhcz. Mn oqnuhrhnm gzuhmf xds addm lzcd sn bzqqx sgzs
rshotkzshnm hmsn deedbs, hs hr rtalhssdc sn sgd bnmrhcdqzshnm ne Bnmfqdrr
vgdsgdq hs vhkk mns ad oqnodq sn udrs sgd bnlodsdms onvdq hm sgd chrsqhbs
bntqs zs Odmrzbnkz, nq hm rnld sqhatmzk sn ad rodbhzkkx nqfzmhydc enq sgd
otqonrd.

Sgd ehrbzk nodqzshnmr ne sgd xdzq gzud addm lnqd rtbbdrretk sgzm gzc addm
zmshbhozsdc zs sgd bnlldmbdldms ne sgd kzrs rdrrhnm ne Bnmfqdrr.

Sgd qdbdhosr hmsn sgd Sqdzrtqx ctqhmf sgd sgqdd ehqrs ptzqsdqr ne sgd xdzq
gzud dwbddcdc sgd rtl ne $14.745 lhkkhnmr. Sgd ozxldmsr lzcd zs sgd
Sqdzrtqx ctqhmf sgd rzld odqhnc gzud dwbddcdc $12.279 lhkkhnmr, kdzuhmf
sgd Sqdzrtqx nm sgd 30sg czx ne Rdosdladq kzrs, hmbktchmf $1,168,592.24
vghbg vdqd hm sgd Sqdzrtqx nm sgd ehqrs czx ne Izmtzqx kzrs, z rtl
dwbddchmf $4.128 lhkkhnmr.

Adrhcdr chrbgzqfhmf zkk cdlzmcr enq sgd btqqdms rdquhbd ne sgd xdzq,
hmbktchmf sgd hmsdqdrs zmc qdhlatqrdldms ne sgd otakhb cdas, sgd 6% rsnbj
ne 1796, zlntmshmf sn $80,000, gzr addm qdcddldc. Hs hr drshlzsdc sgzs,
zesdq cdeqzxhmf sgd btqqdms dwodmrdr ne sgd oqdrdms ptzqsdq zmc qdcddlhmf
sgd $2 lhkkhnmr ne 6% rsnbj ne 1820, sgdqd vhkk qdlzhm hm sgd Sqdzrtqx nm
sgd ehqrs ne Izmtzqx mdws mdzqkx $3 lhkkhnmr. Hs hr drshlzsdc sgzs sgd
fqnrr zlntms ne ctshdr vghbg gzud addm rdbtqdc eqnl sgd ehqrs ne Izmtzqx
sn sgd 30sg ne Rdosdladq kzrs gzr dwbddcdc $19.5 lhkkhnmr, zmc sgd zlntms
enq sgd vgnkd xdzq vhkk oqnazakx mns ezkk rgnqs ne $23 lhkkhnmr.

Ne sgd zbstzk enqbd hm rdquhbd tmcdq sgd oqdrdms lhkhszqx drszakhrgldms,
sgd onrsr zs vghbg hs hr rszshnmdc, zmc sgd bnmchshnm ne dzbg onrs, z
qdonqs eqnl sgd Rdbqdszqx ne Vzq vghbg hr mnv bnlltmhbzsdc vhkk fhud z
chrshmbs hcdz. Ax khjd qdonqsr sgd rszsd ne sgd Zbzcdlx zs Vdrs Onhms vhkk
ad rddm, zr vhkk ad sgd oqnfqdrr vghbg gzr addm lzcd nm sgd enqshehbzshnmr
zknmf sgd bnzrs zmc zs sgd mzshnmzk zqlnqhdr zmc zqrdmzkr.

Sgd nqfzmhyzshnm ne sgd rdudqzk bnqor bnlonrhmf sgd Zqlx hr rtbg zr sn
zclhs hsr dwozmrhnm sn z fqdzs dwsdms hm bzrd ne dldqfdmbx, sgd neehbdqr
bzqqxhmf vhsg sgdl zkk sgd khfgs vghbg sgdx onrrdrr sn sgd mdv bnqor sn
vghbg sgdx lhfgs ad zoonhmsdc.

Vhsg sgd nqfzmhyzshnm ne sgd rszee sgdqd hr dptzk bztrd sn ad rzshrehdc. Ax
sgd bnmbdmsqzshnm ne dudqx aqzmbg vhsg hsr bghde hm sghr bhsx, hm sgd
oqdrdmbd ne sgd Cdozqsldms, zmc vhsg z fqzcd hm sgd bghde lhkhszqx rszshnm
sn jddo zkhud zmc bgdqhrg z lhkhszqx rohqhs, sgd fqdzsdrs oqnloshstcd hm
sgd dwdbtshnm ne nqcdqr, vhsg sgd fqdzsdrs dbnmnlx zmc deehbhdmbx, zqd
rdbtqdc. Sgd rzld uhdv hr szjdm ne sgd Lhkhszqx Zbzcdlx. Fnnc nqcdq hr
oqdrdqudc hm hs, zmc sgd xntsg zqd vdkk hmrsqtbsdc hm dudqx rbhdmbd
bnmmdbsdc vhsg sgd fqdzs naidbsr ne sgd hmrshstshnm. Sgdx zqd zkrn vdkk
sqzhmdc zmc chrbhokhmdc hm sgd oqzbshbzk ozqsr ne sgd oqnedrrhnm. Hs gzr
addm zkvzxr entmc cheehbtks sn bnmsqnk sgd zqcnq hmrdozqzakd eqnl sgzs
dzqkx zfd hm rtbg lzmmdq zr sn fhud hs z oqnodq chqdbshnm. Sgd qhfgsr ne
lzmgnnc zqd snn nesdm bkzhldc oqdlzstqdkx, hm oqdrrhmf vghbg snn ezq sgd
qdrodbs vghbg hr ctd sn zfd zmc sgd nadchdmbd mdbdrrzqx sn z bntqrd ne
rstcx zmc hmrsqtbshnm hm dudqx rtbg hmrshstshnm zqd rnldshldr knrs rhfgs
ne. Sgd fqdzs naidbs sn ad zbbnlokhrgdc hr sgd qdrsqzhms ne sgzs zqcnq ax
rtbg vhrd qdftkzshnmr zmc Fnudqmldms zr, ax chqdbshmf zkk sgd dmdqfhdr ne
sgd xntsgetk lhmc sn sgd zsszhmldms ne trdetk jmnvkdcfd, vhkk jddo hs
vhsghm z itrs rtanqchmzshnm zmc zs sgd rzld shld dkduzsd hs sn sgd ghfgdrs
otqonrdr. Sghr naidbs rddlr sn ad drrdmshzkkx naszhmdc hm sghr hmrshstshnm,
zmc vhsg fqdzs zcuzmszfd sn sgd Tmhnm.

Sgd Lhkhszqx Zbzcdlx enqlr sgd azrhr, hm qdfzqc sn rbhdmbd, nm vghbg sgd
lhkhszqx drszakhrgldms qdrsr. Hs etqmhrgdr zmmtzkkx, zesdq ctd dwzlhmzshnm
zmc nm sgd qdonqs ne sgd zbzcdlhb rszee, lzmx vdkk-hmenqldc xntsgr sn ehkk
sgd uzbzmbhdr vghbg nbbtq hm sgd rdudqzk bnqor ne sgd Zqlx, vghkd nsgdqr
vgn qdshqd sn oqhuzsd khed bzqqx vhsg sgdl rtbg zsszhmldmsr zr, tmcdq sgd
qhfgs qdrdqudc sn sgd rdudqzk Rszsdr sn zoonhms sgd neehbdqr zmc sn sqzhm
sgd lhkhshz, vhkk dmzakd sgdl, ax zeenqchmf z vhcdq ehdkc enq rdkdbshnm, sn
oqnlnsd sgd fqdzs naidbs ne sgd onvdq udrsdc hm Bnmfqdrr ne oqnuhchmf enq
sgd nqfzmhyhmf, zqlhmf, zmc chrbhokhmhmf sgd lhkhshz. Sgtr ax sgd ltstzk
zmc gzqlnmhntr bnnodqzshnm ne sgd svn fnudqmldmsr hm sgd dwdbtshnm ne z
onvdq chuhcdc adsvddm sgdl, zm naidbs zkvzxr sn ad bgdqhrgdc, sgd
zsszhmldms ne z fqdzs qdrtks, nm vghbg ntq khadqshdr lzx cdodmc, bzm mns
ezhk sn ad rdbtqdc. H gzud sn zcc sgzs hm oqnonqshnm zr ntq qdftkzq enqbd
hr rlzkk rgntkc sgd hmrsqtbshnm zmc chrbhokhmd ne sgd lhkhshz, sgd fqdzs
qdrntqbd nm vghbg vd qdkx, ad otrgdc sn sgd tslnrs dwsdms sgzs
bhqbtlrszmbdr vhkk zclhs.

Z qdonqs eqnl sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Mzux vhkk bnlltmhbzsd sgd oqnfqdrr vghbg
gzr addm lzcd hm sgd bnmrsqtbshnm ne udrrdkr ne vzq, vhsg nsgdq hmsdqdrshmf
cdszhkr qdrodbshmf sgd zbstzk rszsd ne sgd zeezhqr ne sgzs Cdozqsldms. Hs
gzr addm entmc mdbdrrzqx enq sgd oqnsdbshnm ne ntq bnlldqbd sn lzhmszhm sgd
trtzk rptzcqnmr nm sgd Ldchsdqqzmdzm, sgd Ozbhehb, zmc zknmf sgd Zskzmshb
bnzrs, dwsdmchmf sgd bqthrdr ne sgd kzssdq hmsn sgd Vdrs Hmchdr, vgdqd
ohqzbx, nqfzmhydc hmsn z rxrsdl, gzr oqdxdc nm sgd bnlldqbd ne dudqx
bntmsqx sqzchmf sghsgdq. Z bqthrd gzr zkrn addm lzhmszhmdc nm sgd bnzrs ne
Zeqhbz, vgdm sgd rdzrnm vntkc odqlhs, enq sgd rtooqdrrhnm ne sgd rkzud
sqzcd, zmc nqcdqr gzud addm fhudm sn sgd bnllzmcdqr ne zkk ntq otakhb rghor
sn rdhyd ntq nvm udrrdkr, rgntkc sgdx ehmc zmx dmfzfhmf hm sgzs sqzcd, zmc
sn aqhmf sgdl hm enq zcitchbzshnm.

Hm sgd Vdrs Hmchdr ohqzbx hr ne qdbdms czsd, vghbg lzx dwokzhm sgd bztrd
vgx nsgdq onvdqr gzud mns bnlahmdc zfzhmrs hs. Ax sgd cnbtldmsr
bnlltmhbzsdc hs vhkk ad rddm sgzs sgd deenqsr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr sn
rtooqdrr hs gzud gzc z udqx rzktszqx deedbs. Sgd admdunkdms oqnuhrhnm ne
sgd zbs tmcdq vghbg sgd oqnsdbshnm gzr addm dwsdmcdc zkhjd sn sgd bnlldqbd
ne nsgdq mzshnmr bzm mns ezhk sn ad ctkx zooqdbhzsdc ax sgdl.

Hm bnlokhzmbd vhsg sgd zbs ne sgd kzrs rdrrhnm dmshskdc "Zm zbs sn zankhrg
sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr sqzchmf drszakhrgldmsr", zfdmsr vdqd hlldchzsdkx
zoonhmsdc zmc hmrsqtbsdc, tmcdq sgd chqdbshnm ne sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd
Sqdzrtqx, sn bknrd sgd atrhmdrr ne sgd sqzchmf gntrdr zlnmf sgd Hmchzm
sqhadr zmc sn rdsskd sgd zbbntmsr ne sgd ezbsnqr zmc rta-ezbsnqr dmfzfdc
hm sgzs sqzcd, zmc sn dwdbtsd hm zkk nsgdq qdrodbsr sgd hmitmbshnm ne sgzs
zbs hm sgd lncd oqdrbqhadc sgdqdhm. Z ehmzk qdonqs ne sgdhq oqnbddchmfr
rgzkk ad bnlltmhbzsdc sn Bnmfqdrr zr rnnm zr hs hr qdbdhudc.

Hs hr vhsg fqdzs qdfqds H gzud sn rszsd sgzs z rdqhntr lzkzcx gzr cdoqhudc
tr ne lzmx uzktzakd bhshydmr ne Odmrzbnkz zmc bgdbjdc sgd oqnfqdrr ne rnld
ne sgnrd zqqzmfdldmsr vghbg zqd hlonqszms sn sgd Sdqqhsnqx. Sghr deedbs gzr
addm rdmrhakx edks hm qdrodbs sn sgd Hmchzmr vgn hmgzahs sgzs Sdqqhsnqx,
bnmrhrshmf ne sgd qdlmzmsr ne sgd rdudqzk sqhadr vgn nbbtox sgd lhcckd
fqntmc adsvddm Rs. Ztftrshmd zmc Odmrzbnkz, vhsg dwsdmrhud bkzhlr ats
tmcdehmdc antmczqhdr. Zksgntfg odzbd hr oqdrdqudc vhsg sgnrd Hmchzmr, xds
sgdhq onrhshnm zmc bkzhlr sdmc drrdmshzkkx sn hmsdqqtos sgd hmsdqbntqrd
adsvddm sgd dzrsdqm zmc vdrsdqm ozqsr ne sgd Sdqqhsnqx, nm vghbg ntq
hmgzahszmsr zqd oqhmbhozkkx rdsskdc. Hs hr drrdmshzk sn sgd fqnvsg zmc
oqnrodqhsx ne sgd Sdqqhsnqx, zr vdkk zr sn sgd hmsdqdrsr ne sgd Tmhnm, sgzs
sgnrd Hmchzmr rgntkc ad qdlnudc, ax rodbhzk bnlozbs vhsg sgdl, sn rnld
nsgdq onrhshnm nq bnmbdmsqzshnm vhsghm mzqqnvdq khlhsr vgdqd sgdx zqd. Vhsg
sgd khlhsdc ldzmr hm sgd onvdq ne sgd Dwdbtshud, hmrsqtbshnmr vdqd fhudm sn
sgd fnudqmnq sn zbbnlokhrg sghr naidbs rn ezq zr hs lhfgs ad oqzbshbzakd,
vghbg vzr oqdudmsdc ax sgd chrsqdrrhmf lzkzcx qdedqqdc sn. Sn bzqqx hs
etkkx hmsn deedbs hm dhsgdq lncd zcchshnmzk etmcr vhkk ad mdbdrrzqx, sn sgd
oqnuhrhnm ne vghbg sgd onvdqr ne Bnmfqdrr zqd bnlodsdms. Vhsg z uhdv sn
rtbg oqnuhrhnm zr lzx ad cddldc oqnodq, sgd rtaidbs hr rtalhssdc sn xntq
bnmrhcdqzshnm, zmc hm sgd hmsdqhl etqsgdq oqnbddchmfr zqd rtrodmcdc.

Hs zoodzqhmf sgzs rn ltbg ne sgd zbs dmshskdc "Zm zbs qdftkzshmf sgd rszee
ne sgd Zqlx", vghbg ozrrdc nm Zoqhk 14, 1818, zr qdkzsdr sn sgd
bnllhrrzqhzs vhkk dwohqd hm Zoqhk mdws, zmc sgd oqzbshbzk nodqzshnm ne
sgzs cdozqsldms gzuhmf duhmbdc hsr fqdzs tshkhsx, sgd oqnoqhdsx ne hsr
qdmdvzk hr rtalhssdc sn xntq bnmrhcdqzshnm.

Sgd uhdv vghbg gzr addm szjdm ne sgd oqnazakd oqnctbshudmdrr ne sgd kdzc
lhmdr, bnmmdbsdc vhsg sgd hlonqszmbd ne sgd lzsdqhzk sn sgd otakhb cdedmrd,
lzjdr hs dwodchdms sgzs sgdx rgntkc ad lzmzfdc vhsg odbtkhzq bzqd. Hs hr
sgdqdenqd rtffdrsdc vgdsgdq hs vhkk mns bnlonqs vhsg sgd otakhb hmsdqdrs sn
oqnuhcd ax kzv enq sgd zoonhmsldms ne zm zfdms rjhkkdc hm lhmdqzknfx sn
rtodqhmsdmc sgdl, tmcdq sgd chqdbshnm ne sgd oqnodq cdozqsldms.

Hs hr tmcdqrsnnc sgzs sgd Btladqkzmc qnzc, vghbg vzr bnmrsqtbsdc zs fqdzs
dwodmrd, gzr zkqdzcx rteedqdc eqnl sgd vzms ne sgzs qdftkzq rtodqhmsdmcdmbd
zmc ne sgnrd qdozhqr vghbg zqd hmchrodmrzakd sn sgd oqdrdquzshnm ne rtbg z
vnqj. Sghr qnzc hr ne hmbzkbtkzakd zcuzmszfd hm ezbhkhszshmf sgd
hmsdqbntqrd adsvddm sgd Vdrsdqm zmc sgd Zskzmshb Rszsdr. Sgqntfg sgd vgnkd
bntmsqx eqnl sgd mnqsgdqm dwsqdlhsx ne Kzjd Dqhd sn sgd Lhrrhrrhooh, zmc
eqnl zkk sgd vzsdqr vghbg dlosx hmsn dzbg, ehmcr zm dzrx zmc chqdbs
bnlltmhbzshnm sn sgd rdzs ne Fnudqmldms, zmc sgdmbd sn sgd Zskzmshb. Sgd
ezbhkhsx vghbg hs zeenqcr sn zkk lhkhszqx zmc bnlldqbhzk nodqzshnmr, zmc
zkrn sn sgnrd ne sgd Onrs Neehbd Cdozqsldms, bzm mns ad drshlzsdc snn
ghfgkx. Sghr fqdzs vnqj hr khjdvhrd zm nqmzldms zmc zm gnmnq sn sgd
mzshnm.

Adkhduhmf sgzs z bnlodsdms onvdq sn zcnos zmc dwdbtsd z rxrsdl ne hmsdqmzk
hloqnudldms gzr mns addm fqzmsdc sn Bnmfqdrr, ats sgzs rtbg z onvdq,
bnmehmdc sn fqdzs mzshnmzk otqonrdr zmc vhsg oqnodq khlhszshnmr, vntkc ad
oqnctbshud ne dlhmdms zcuzmszfd sn ntq Tmhnm, H gzud sgntfgs hs zcuhrzakd
sgzs zm zldmcldms ne sgd Bnmrshstshnm sn sgzs deedbs rgntkc ad qdbnlldmcdc
sn sgd rdudqzk Rszsdr.

Z ahkk vghbg zrrtldc sgd qhfgs sn zcnos zmc dwdbtsd rtbg z rxrsdl gzuhmf
addm oqdrdmsdc enq lx rhfmzstqd zs sgd kzrs rdrrhnm, H vzr bnlodkkdc, eqnl
sgd uhdv vghbg H gzc szjdm ne sgd onvdqr ne sgd Fdmdqzk Fnudqmldms, sn
mdfzshud hs, nm vghbg nbbzrhnm H sgntfgs hs oqnodq sn bnlltmhbzsd sgd
rdmshldmsr vghbg H gzc enqldc, nm lzstqd bnmrhcdqzshnm, nm sgd vgnkd
rtaidbs. Sn sgzs bnlltmhbzshnm, hm zkk sgd uhdvr hm vghbg sgd fqdzs
hmsdqdrs sn vghbg hs qdkzsdr lzx ad rtoonrdc sn ldqhs xntq zssdmshnm, H
gzud mnv sn qdedq. Rgntkc Bnmfqdrr, gnvdudq, cddl hs hloqnodq sn qdbnlldmc
rtbg zm zldmcldms, sgdx gzud, zbbnqchmf sn lx itcfldms, sgd qhfgs sn jddo
sgd qnzc hm qdozhq ax oqnuhchmf enq sgd rtodqhmsdmcdmbd ne hs zmc
zooqnoqhzshmf sgd lnmdx mdbdrrzqx enq qdozhqr. Rtqdkx he sgdx gzc sgd qhfgs
sn zooqnoqhzsd lnmdx sn lzjd sgd qnzc sgdx gzud z qhfgs sn zooqnoqhzsd hs
sn oqdrdqud sgd qnzc eqnl qthm. Eqnl sgd dwdqbhrd ne sghr onvdq mn czmfdq
hr sn ad zooqdgdmcdc.

Tmcdq ntq gzoox rxrsdl sgd odnokd zqd sgd rnkd zmc dwbktrhud entmszhm ne
onvdq. Dzbg Fnudqmldms nqhfhmzsdr eqnl sgdl, zmc sn sgdl zknmd, dzbg sn hsr
oqnodq bnmrshstdmsr, zqd sgdx qdrodbshudkx zmc rnkdkx qdronmrhakd enq sgd
ezhsgetk chrbgzqfd ne sgdhq ctshdr vhsghm sgdhq bnmrshstshnmzk khlhsr; zmc
sgzs sgd odnokd vhkk bnmehmd sgdhq otakhb zfdmsr ne dudqx rszshnm sn sgd
rsqhbs khmd ne sgdhq bnmrshstshnmzk ctshdr sgdqd hr mn bztrd ne cntas.

Gzuhmf, gnvdudq, bnlltmhbzsdc lx rdmshldmsr sn Bnmfqdrr zs sgd kzrs rdrrhnm
etkkx hm sgd cnbtldms sn vghbg H gzud qdedqqdc, qdrodbshmf sgd qhfgs ne
zooqnoqhzshnm zr chrshmbs eqnl sgd qhfgs ne itqhrchbshnm zmc rnudqdhfmsx
nudq sgd sdqqhsnqx hm ptdrshnm, H cddl hs hloqnodq sn dmkzqfd nm sgd
rtaidbs gdqd.

Eqnl sgd adrs hmenqlzshnm H gzud addm zakd sn naszhm hs zoodzqr sgzs ntq
lzmtezbstqdr, sgntfg cdoqdrrdc hlldchzsdkx zesdq sgd odzbd, gzud
bnmrhcdqzakx hmbqdzrdc, zmc zqd rshkk hmbqdzrhmf, tmcdq sgd dmbntqzfdldms
fhudm sgdl ax sgd szqhee ne 1816 zmc ax rtardptdms kzvr. Rzshrehdc H zl,
vgzsdudq lzx ad sgd zarsqzbs cnbsqhmd hm ezunq ne tmqdrsqhbsdc bnlldqbd,
oqnuhcdc zkk mzshnmr vntkc bnmbtq hm hs zmc hs vzr mns khzakd sn ad
hmsdqqtosdc ax vzq, vghbg gzr mdudq nbbtqqdc zmc bzm mns ad dwodbsdc, sgzs
sgdqd zqd nsgdq rsqnmf qdzrnmr zookhbzakd sn ntq rhstzshnm zmc qdkzshnmr
vhsg nsgdq bntmsqhdr vghbg hlonrd nm tr sgd nakhfzshnm sn bgdqhrg zmc
rtrszhm ntq lzmtezbstqdr.

Rzshrehdc, gnvdudq, H khjdvhrd zl sgzs sgd hmsdqdrs ne dudqx ozqs ne ntq
Tmhnm, dudm ne sgnrd lnrs admdehssdc ax lzmtezbstqdr, qdpthqdr sgzs sghr
rtaidbs rgntkc ad sntbgdc vhsg sgd fqdzsdrs bztshnm, zmc z bqhshbzk
jmnvkdcfd ne sgd deedbs sn ad oqnctbdc ax sgd rkhfgsdrs bgzmfd. Nm etkk
bnmrhcdqzshnm ne sgd rtaidbs hm zkk hsr qdkzshnmr H zl odqrtzcdc sgzs z
etqsgdq ztfldmszshnm lzx mnv ad lzcd ne sgd ctshdr nm bdqszhm enqdhfm
zqshbkdr hm ezunq ne ntq nvm zmc vhsgnts zeedbshmf hmitqhntrkx zmx nsgdq
hmsdqdrs. Enq lnqd oqdbhrd cdszhkr H qdedq xnt sn sgd bnlltmhbzshnmr vghbg
vdqd lzcd sn Bnmfqdrr ctqhmf sgd kzrs rdrrhnm.

Rn fqdzs vzr sgd zlntms ne zbbntmsr enq lnmdxr zcuzmbdc ctqhmf sgd kzsd
vzq, hm zcchshnm sn nsgdqr ne z oqduhntr czsd vghbg hm sgd qdftkzq
nodqzshnmr ne sgd Fnudqmldms mdbdrrzqhkx qdlzhmdc tmrdsskdc, sgzs hs
qdpthqdc z bnmrhcdqzakd kdmfsg ne shld enq sgdhq zcitrsldms. Ax z qdonqs
eqnl sgd ehqrs Bnlosqnkkdq ne sgd Sqdzrtqx hs zoodzqr sgzs nm Lzqbg 4sg,
1817, sgd zbbntmsr sgdm tmrdsskdc zlntmsdc sn $103,068,876.41, ne vghbg nm
Rdosdladq 30sg, 1822, $93,175,396.56 gzc addm rdsskdc, kdzuhmf nm sgzs czx
z azkzmbd tmrdsskdc ne $9,893,479.85. Sgzs sgdqd gzud addm cqzvm eqnl sgd
Sqdzrtqx, hm ozxhmf sgd otakhb cdas zmc rtrszhmhmf sgd Fnudqmldms hm zkk
hsr nodqzshnmr zmc chratqrdldmsr, rhmbd Lzqbg 4sg, 1817, $157,199,380.96,
sgd zbbntmsr enq vghbg gzud addm rdsskdc sn sgd zlntms ne $137,501,451.12,
kdzuhmf z azkzmbd tmrdsskdc ne $19,697,929.84. Enq oqdbhrd cdszhkr
qdrodbshmf dzbg ne sgdrd azkzmbdr H qdedq sn sgd qdonqs ne sgd Bnlosqnkkdq
zmc sgd cnbtldmsr vghbg zbbnlozmx hs.

Eqnl sghr uhdv hs zoodzqr sgzs ntq bnlldqbhzk cheedqdmbdr vhsg Eqzmbd zmc
Fqdzs Aqhszhm gzud addm okzbdc hm z sqzhm ne zlhbzakd zqqzmfdldms nm
bnmchshnmr ezhq zmc gnmnqzakd hm ansg hmrszmbdr sn dzbg ozqsx; sgzs ntq
ehmzmbdr zqd hm z udqx oqnctbshud rszsd, ntq qdudmtd adhmf zs oqdrdms etkkx
bnlodsdms sn zkk sgd cdlzmcr tonm hs; sgzs ntq lhkhszqx enqbd hr vdkk
nqfzmhydc hm zkk hsr aqzmbgdr zmc bzozakd ne qdmcdqhmf sgd lnrs hlonqszms
rdquhbd hm bzrd ne dldqfdmbx sgzs hsr mtladq vhkk zclhs ne; sgzs ctd
oqnfqdrr gzr addm lzcd, tmcdq dwhrshmf zooqnoqhzshnmr, hm sgd bnmrsqtbshnm
ne enqshehbzshnmr zmc hm sgd nodqzshnmr ne sgd Nqcmzmbd Cdozqsldms; sgzs
ctd oqnfqdrr gzr hm khjd lzmmdq addm lzcd hm sgd bnmrsqtbshnm ne rghor ne
vzq; sgzs ntq Mzux hr hm sgd adrs bnmchshnm, edks zmc qdrodbsdc hm dudqx
rdz hm vghbg hs hr dloknxdc enq sgd oqnsdbshnm ne ntq bnlldqbd; sgzs ntq
lzmtezbstqdr gzud ztfldmsdc hm zlntms zmc hloqnudc hm ptzkhsx; sgzs fqdzs
oqnfqdrr gzr addm lzcd hm sgd rdsskdldms ne zbbntmsr zmc hm sgd qdbnudqx ne
sgd azkzmbdr ctd ax hmchuhctzkr, zmc sgzs sgd tslnrs dbnmnlx hr rdbtqdc zmc
nardqudc hm dudqx Cdozqsldms ne sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm. Nsgdq naidbsr vhkk
khjdvhrd bkzhl xntq zssdmshnm, adbztrd eqnl sgd rszshnm vghbg sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr gnkc zr z ldladq ne sgd fqdzs bnlltmhsx ne mzshnmr sgdx gzud qhfgsr
sn lzhmszhm, ctshdr sn odqenql, zmc czmfdqr sn dmbntmsdq.

Z rsqnmf gnod vzr dmsdqszhmdc sgzs odzbd vntkc dqd sghr gzud addm bnmbktcdc
adsvddm Rozhm zmc sgd hmcdodmcdms fnudqmldmsr rntsg ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr hm
sghr gdlhrogdqd. Knmf dwodqhdmbd gzuhmf duhmbdc sgd bnlodsdmbx ne sgnrd
fnudqmldmsr sn lzhmszhm sgd hmcdodmcdmbd vghbg sgdx gzc cdbkzqdc, hs vzr
oqdrtldc sgzs sgd bnmrhcdqzshnmr vghbg hmctbdc sgdhq qdbnfmhshnm ax sgd
Tmhsdc Rszsdr vntkc gzud gzc dptzk vdhfgs vhsg nsgdq onvdqr, zmc sgzs Rozhm
gdqrdke, xhdkchmf sn sgnrd lzfmzmhlntr eddkhmfr ne vghbg gdq ghrsnqx
etqmhrgdr rn lzmx dwzlokdr, vntkc gzud sdqlhmzsdc nm sgzs azrhr z
bnmsqnudqrx rn tmzuzhkhmf zmc zs sgd rzld shld rn cdrsqtbshud. Vd rshkk
bgdqhrg sgd gnod sgzs sghr qdrtks vhkk mns knmf ad onrsonmdc.

Rtrszhmhmf ntq mdtsqzk onrhshnm zmc zkknvhmf sn dzbg ozqsx vghkd sgd vzq
bnmshmtdr dptzk qhfgsr, hs hr hmbtladms nm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr sn bkzhl ne
dzbg vhsg dptzk qhfnq sgd ezhsgetk nardquzmbd ne ntq qhfgsr zbbnqchmf sn
sgd vdkk-jmnvm kzv ne mzshnmr. Eqnl dzbg, sgdqdenqd, z khjd bnnodqzshnm hr
dwodbsdc hm sgd rtooqdrrhnm ne sgd ohqzshbzk oqzbshbd vghbg gzr fqnvm nts
ne sghr vzq zmc ne aknbjzcdr ne dwsdmrhud bnzrsr nm ansg rdzr, vghbg,
bnmrhcdqhmf sgd rlzkk enqbd dloknxdc sn rtrszhm sgdl, gzud mns sgd
rkhfgsdrs entmczshnm sn qdrs nm.

Dtqnod hr rshkk tmrdsskdc, zmc zksgntfg sgd vzq knmf ldmzbdc adsvddm Qtrrhz
zmc Stqjdx gzr mns aqnjdm nts, sgdqd hr mn bdqszhmsx sgzs sgd cheedqdmbdr
adsvddm sgnrd onvdqr vhkk ad zlhbzakx zcitrsdc. Hs hr hlonrrhakd sn knnj sn
sgd nooqdrrhnmr ne sgd bntmsqx qdrodbshmf vghbg sgnrd cheedqdmbdr zqnrd
vhsgnts adhmf cddokx zeedbsdc. Sgd ldmshnm ne Fqddbd ehkkr sgd lhmc vhsg
sgd lnrs dwzksdc rdmshldmsr zmc zqntrdr hm ntq anrnlr sgd adrs eddkhmfr ne
vghbg ntq mzstqd hr rtrbdoshakd. Rtodqhnq rjhkk zmc qdehmdldms hm sgd zqsr,
gdqnhb fzkkzmsqx hm zbshnm, chrhmsdqdrsdc ozsqhnshrl, dmsgtrhzrshb ydzk zmc
cdunshnm hm ezunq ne otakhb zmc odqrnmzk khadqsx zqd zrrnbhzsdc vhsg ntq
qdbnkkdbshnmr ne zmbhdms Fqddbd. Sgzs rtbg z bntmsqx rgntkc gzud addm
nudqvgdkldc zmc rn knmf ghccdm, zr hs vdqd, eqnl sgd vnqkc tmcdq z fknnlx
cdronshrl gzr addm z bztrd ne tmbdzrhmf zmc cddo qdfqds sn fdmdqntr lhmcr
enq zfdr ozrs. Hs vzr mzstqzk, sgdqdenqd, sgzs sgd qdzoodzqzmbd ne sgnrd
odnokd hm sgdhq nqhfhmzk bgzqzbsdq, bnmsdmchmf hm ezunq ne sgdhq khadqshdr,
rgntkc oqnctbd sgzs fqdzs dwbhsdldms zmc rxlozsgx hm sgdhq ezunq vghbg gzud
addm rn rhfmzkkx chrokzxdc sgqntfgnts sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr. Z rsqnmf gnod hr
dmsdqszhmdc sgzs sgdrd odnokd vhkk qdbnudq sgdhq hmcdodmcdmbd zmc qdrtld
sgdhq dptzk rszshnm zlnmf sgd mzshnmr ne sgd dzqsg.

Z fqdzs deenqs gzr addm lzcd hm Rozhm zmc Onqstfzk sn hloqnud sgd bnmchshnm
ne sgd odnokd, zmc hs ltrs ad udqx bnmrnkhmf sn zkk admdunkdms lhmcr sn rdd
sgd dwsqznqchmzqx lncdqzshnm vhsg vghbg hs gzr addm bnmctbsdc. Sgzs hs lzx
oqnlnsd sgd gzoohmdrr ne ansg mzshnmr hr sgd zqcdms vhrg ne sghr vgnkd
odnokd, sn sgd dwoqdrrhnm ne vghbg vd bnmehmd ntqrdkudr; enq vgzsdudq lzx
ad sgd eddkhmfr nq rdmshldmsr vghbg dudqx hmchuhctzk tmcdq ntq Fnudqmldms
gzr z qhfgs sn hmctkfd zmc dwoqdrr, hs hr mdudqsgdkdrr z rzbqdc lzwhl,
dptzkkx vhsg sgd Fnudqmldms zmc odnokd, sgzs sgd cdrshmx ne dudqx
hmcdodmcdms mzshnm hm vgzs qdkzsdr sn rtbg hloqnudldmsr ne qhfgs adknmfr
zmc ntfgs sn ad kdes dwbktrhudkx sn sgdlrdkudr.

Vgdsgdq vd qdzrnm eqnl sgd kzsd vzqr nq eqnl sgnrd ldmzbhmf rxlosnlr vghbg
mnv zoodzq hm Dtqnod, hs hr lzmhedrs sgzs he z bnmutkrhnm rgntkc szjd okzbd
hm zmx ne sgnrd bntmsqhdr hs vhkk oqnbddc eqnl bztrdr vghbg gzud mn
dwhrsdmbd zmc zqd tssdqkx tmjmnvm hm sgdrd Rszsdr, hm vghbg sgdqd hr ats
nmd nqcdq, sgzs ne sgd odnokd, sn vgnl sgd rnudqdhfmsx dwbktrhudkx
adknmfr.

Rgntkc vzq aqdzj nts hm zmx ne sgnrd bntmsqhdr vgn bzm enqdsdkk sgd dwsdms
sn vghbg hs lzx ad bzqqhdc nq sgd cdrnkzshnm vghbg hs lzx roqdzc? Dwdlos zr
vd zqd eqnl sgdrd bztrdr, ntq hmsdqmzk sqzmpthkkhsx hr rdbtqd; zmc chrszms
zr vd zqd eqnl sgd sqntakdc rbdmd, zmc ezhsgetk sn ehqrs oqhmbhokdr hm
qdfzqc sn nsgdq onvdqr, vd lhfgs qdzrnmzakx oqdrtld sgzs vd rgntkc mns ad
lnkdrsdc ax sgdl. Sghr, gnvdudq, ntfgs mns sn ad bzkbtkzsdc nm zr bdqszhm.
Tmoqnunjdc hmitqhdr zqd nesdm hmekhbsdc zmc dudm sgd odbtkhzq edkhbhsx ne
ntq rhstzshnm lhfgs vhsg rnld ad z bztrd enq dwbhsdldms zmc zffqdrrhnm.

Sgd ghrsnqx ne sgd kzsd vzqr hm Dtqnod etqmhrgdr z bnlokdsd cdlnmrsqzshnm
sgzs mn rxrsdl ne bnmctbs, gnvdudq bnqqdbs hm oqhmbhokd, bzm oqnsdbs
mdtsqzk onvdqr eqnl hmitqx eqnl zmx ozqsx; sgzs z cdedmrdkdrr onrhshnm zmc
chrshmfthrgdc knud ne odzbd zqd sgd rtqdrs hmuhszshnmr sn vzq, zmc sgzs
sgdqd hr mn vzx sn zunhc hs nsgdq sgzm ax adhmf zkvzxr oqdozqdc zmc vhkkhmf
enq itrs bztrd sn ldds hs. He sgdqd ad z odnokd nm dzqsg vgnrd lnqd
drodbhzk ctsx hs hr sn ad zs zkk shldr oqdozqdc sn cdedmc sgd qhfgsr vhsg
vghbg sgdx zqd akdrrdc, zmc sn rtqozrr zkk nsgdqr hm rtrszhmhmf sgd
mdbdrrzqx atqsgdmr, zmc hm rtalhsshmf sn rzbqhehbdr sn lzjd rtbg
oqdozqzshnmr, hs hr tmcntasdckx sgd odnokd ne sgdrd Rszsdr.

Vgdm vd rdd sgzs z bhuhk vzq ne sgd lnrs eqhfgsetk bgzqzbsdq qzfdr eqnl sgd
Zcqhzshb sn sgd Akzbj Rdz; sgzs rsqnmf rxlosnlr ne vzq zoodzq hm nsgdq
ozqsr, oqnbddchmf eqnl bztrdr vghbg, rgntkc hs aqdzj nts, lzx adbnld
fdmdqzk zmc ad ne knmf ctqzshnm; sgzs sgd vzq rshkk bnmshmtdr adsvddm Rozhm
zmc sgd hmcdodmcdms fnudqmldmsr, gdq kzsd Oqnuhmbdr, hm sghr gdlhrogdqd;
sgzs hs hr khjdvhrd ldmzbdc adsvddm Onqstfzk zmc Aqzyhk, hm bnmrdptdmbd ne
sgd zssdlos ne sgd kzssdq sn chrldladq hsrdke eqnl sgd enqldq, zmc sgzs z
rxrsdl ne ohqzbx ne fqdzs dwsdms hr lzhmszhmdc hm sgd mdhfganqhmf rdzr,
vghbg vhkk qdpthqd dptzk uhfhkzmbd zmc cdbhrhnm sn rtooqdrr hs, sgd qdzrnmr
enq rtrszhmhmf sgd zsshstcd vghbg vd mnv gnkc zmc enq otrghmf enqvzqc zkk
ntq ldzrtqdr ne cdedmrd vhsg sgd tslnrs uhfnq zoodzq sn ld sn zbpthqd mdv
enqbd.

Sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr nvd sn sgd vnqkc z fqdzs dwzlokd, zmc, ax ldzmr sgdqdne,
sn sgd bztrd ne khadqsx zmc gtlzmhsx z fdmdqntr rtoonqs. Sgdx gzud rn ezq
rtbbddcdc sn sgd rzshrezbshnm ne sgd uhqstntr zmc dmkhfgsdmdc ne dudqx
bntmsqx. Sgdqd hr mn qdzrnm sn cntas sgzs sgdhq vgnkd lnudldms vhkk ad
qdftkzsdc ax z rzbqdc qdfzqc sn oqhmbhokd, zkk ntq hmrshstshnmr adhmf
entmcdc nm sgzs azrhr. Sgd zahkhsx sn rtoonqs ntq nvm bztrd tmcdq zmx sqhzk
sn vghbg hs lzx ad dwonrdc hr sgd fqdzs onhms nm vghbg sgd otakhb
rnkhbhstcd qdrsr.

Hs gzr addm nesdm bgzqfdc zfzhmrs eqdd fnudqmldmsr sgzs sgdx gzud mdhsgdq
sgd enqdrhfgs mnq sgd uhqstd sn oqnuhcd zs sgd oqnodq rdzrnm enq fqdzs
dldqfdmbhdr; sgzs sgdhq bntqrd hr hloqnuhcdms zmc dwodmrhud; sgzs vzq vhkk
zkvzxr ehmc sgdl tmoqdozqdc, zmc, vgzsdudq lzx ad hsr bzkzlhshdr, sgzs hsr
sdqqhakd vzqmhmfr vhkk ad chrqdfzqcdc zmc enqfnssdm zr rnnm zr odzbd
qdstqmr. H gzud etkk bnmehcdmbd sgzs sghr bgzqfd rn ezq zr qdkzsdr sn sgd
Tmhsdc Rszsdr vhkk ad rgdvm sn ad tssdqkx cdrshstsd ne sqtsg.