Lkrruc-Iozofkty ul znk Yktgzk gtj Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky:

Znk vxumxkyy ul uax gllgoxy yotik znk rgyz ykyyout ngy hkkt yain gy sge
payzre hk irgoskj gtj kdvkizkj atjkx g Mubkxtsktz jkxobotm grr ozy vuckxy
lxus gt ktromnzktkj vkuvrk, gtj atjkx rgcy luxskj he znkox xkvxkyktzgzobky,
ut mxkgz iutyojkxgzout, lux znk yurk vaxvuyk ul vxusuzotm znk ckrlgxk gtj
ngvvotkyy ul znkox iutyzozaktzy. Ot znk kdkiazout ul znuyk rgcy gtj ul znk
vuckxy bkyzkj he znk Iutyzozazout ot znk Kdkiazobk, atxksozzkj gzzktzout
ngy hkkt vgoj zu znk mxkgz uhpkizy zu cnoin znke kdzktj.

Ot znk iutikxty cnoin gxk kdirayobkre otzkxtgr znkxk oy muuj igayk zu hk
ygzoylokj cozn znk xkyarz. Znk rgcy ngbk ngj znkox jak uvkxgzout gtj
kllkiz.

Ot znuyk xkrgzotm zu luxkomt vuckxy, O gs ngvve zu yzgzk zngz vkgik gtj
gsoze gxk vxkykxbkj cozn grr he g yzxoiz uhykxbgtik ut huzn yojky ul znk
xomnzy ul kgin.

Ot sgzzkxy zuainotm uax iusskxiogr otzkxiuaxyk, cnkxk g jollkxktik ul
uvotout ngy kdoyzkj gy zu znk iutjozouty ut cnoin oz ynuarj hk vrgikj, kgin
vgxze ngy vaxyakj ozy uct vuroie coznuaz mobotm payz igayk ul ullktyk zu
znk uznkx.

Ot znoy gttagr iussatoigzout, kyvkiogrre cnkt oz oy gjjxkyykj zu g tkc
Iutmxkyy, znk cnurk yiuvk ul uax vurozoigr iutikxty tgzaxgrre iusky otzu
bokc, zngz kxxuxy, ol yain ngbk hkkt iussozzkj, sge hk iuxxkizkj; zngz
jklkizy cnoin ngbk hkiusk sgtolkyz sge hk xkskjokj; gtj, ut znk uznkx ngtj,
zngz skgyaxky cnoin ckxk gjuvzkj ut jak jkrohkxgzout, gtj cnoin kdvkxoktik
ngy ynkct gxk payz ot znksykrbky gtj kyyktzogr zu znk vahroi ckrlgxk,
ynuarj hk vkxykbkxkj ot gtj yavvuxzkj. Ot vkxluxsotm znoy tkikyygxe gtj
bkxe osvuxzgtz jaze O yngrr ktjkgbux zu vrgik hkluxk eua ut ozy skxozy
kbkxe yahpkiz zngz oy znuamnz zu hk ktzozrkj zu euax vgxzoiargx gzzktzout
ot gy joyzotiz gtj irkgx g romnz gy O sge hk ghrk.

He gt giz ul Sgxin 3xj, 1815, yu sain ul znk ykbkxgr gizy gy osvuykj nomnkx
jazoky ut znk zuttgmk ul luxkomt bkyykry gtj ut znk sgtalgizaxky gtj
vxujaizouty ul luxkomt tgzouty cnkt osvuxzkj otzu znk Atozkj Yzgzky ot
luxkomt bkyykry zngt cnkt osvuxzkj ot bkyykry ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky ckxk
xkvkgrkj yu lgx gy xkyvkizkj znk sgtalgizaxky gtj vxujaizouty ul znk tgzout
zu cnoin yain bkyykry hkrutmkj, ut znk iutjozout zngz znk xkvkgr ynuarj
zgqk kllkiz utre ot lgbux ul gte luxkomt tgzout cnkt znk Kdkiazobk ynuarj
hk ygzoylokj zngz yain joyixosotgzotm jazoky zu znk joygjbgtzgmk ul znk
Atozkj Yzgzky ngj roqkcoyk hkkt xkvkgrkj he yain tgzout.

He znoy giz g vxuvuyozout cgy sgjk zu grr tgzouty zu vrgik uax iusskxik
cozn kgin ut g hgyoy cnoin oz cgy vxkyaskj cuarj hk giikvzghrk zu grr.
Kbkxe tgzout cgy grruckj zu hxotm ozy sgtalgizaxky gtj vxujaizouty otzu uax
vuxzy gtj zu zgqk znk sgtalgizaxky gtj vxujaizouty ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky
hgiq zu znkox vuxzy ot znkox uct bkyykry ut znk ygsk iutjozouty zngz znke
somnz hk zxgtyvuxzkj ot bkyykry ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, gtj ot xkzaxt oz cgy
xkwaoxkj zngz g roqk giiussujgzout ynuarj hk mxgtzkj zu znk bkyykry ul znk
Atozkj Yzgzky ot znk vuxzy ul uznkx vuckxy. Znk gxzoirky zu hk gjsozzkj ux
vxunohozkj ut koznkx yojk luxskj tu vgxz ul znk vxuvuykj gxxgtmksktz. Kgin
vgxze cuarj xkzgot znk xomnz zu gjsoz ux vxunohoz yain gxzoirky lxus znk
uznkx gy oz znuamnz vxuvkx, gtj ut ozy uct iutjozouty.

Cnkt znk tgzaxk ul znk iusskxik hkzckkt znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj kbkxe uznkx
iuatzxe cgy zgqkt otzu bokc, oz cgy znuamnz zngz znoy vxuvuyozout cuarj hk
iutyojkxkj lgox, gtj kbkt rohkxgr, he kbkxe vuckx. Znk kdvuxzy ul znk
Atozkj Yzgzky iutyoyz mktkxgrre ul gxzoirky ul znk loxyz tkikyyoze gtj ul
xajk sgzkxogry ot jksgtj lux luxkomt sgtalgizuxoky, ul mxkgz harq,
xkwaoxotm lux znkox zxgtyvuxzgzout sgte bkyykry, znk xkzaxt lux cnoin ot
znk sgtalgizaxky gtj vxujaizouty ul gte luxkomt iuatzxe, kbkt cnkt joyvuykj
ul znkxk zu gjbgtzgmk, sge hk hxuamnz ot g yotmrk bkyykr. Znoy uhykxbgzout
oy znk suxk kyvkiogrre gvvroighrk zu znuyk iuatzxoky lxus cnoin
sgtalgizaxky grutk gxk osvuxzkj, haz oz gvvroky ot mxkgz kdzktz zu znk
Kaxuvkgt jusotouty ul kbkxe Kaxuvkgt vuckx gtj ot g ikxzgot kdzktz zu grr
znk iurutoky ul znuyk vuckxy. He vrgiotm, znkt, znk tgbomgzout vxkioykre ut
znk ygsk mxuatj ot znk zxgtyvuxzgzout ul kdvuxzy gtj osvuxzy hkzckkt znk
Atozkj Yzgzky gtj uznkx iuatzxoky oz cgy vxkyaskj zngz grr cgy ullkxkj
cnoin iuarj hk jkyoxkj. Oz ykkskj zu hk znk utre vxuvuyozout cnoin iuarj hk
jkboykj cnoin cuarj xkzgot kbkt znk ykshrgtik ul kwagroze ot uax lgbux.

Sgte iutyojkxgzouty ul mxkgz ckomnz mgbk ay g xomnz zu kdvkiz zngz znoy
iusskxik ynuarj hk kdzktjkj zu znk iurutoky gy ckrr gy zu znk Kaxuvkgt
jusotouty ul uznkx vuckxy. Cozn znk rgzzkx, kyvkiogrre cozn iuatzxoky
kdirayobkre sgtalgizaxotm, znk gjbgtzgmk cgy sgtolkyzre ut znkox yojk. Gt
otjkstoze lux zngz ruyy cgy kdvkizkj lxus g zxgjk cozn znk iurutoky, gtj
cozn znk mxkgzkx xkgyut gy oz cgy qtuct zngz znk yavvroky cnoin znk
iurutoky jkxobkj lxus ay ckxk ul znk nomnkyz osvuxzgtik zu znks, znkox
rghux hkotm hkyzuckj cozn yu sain mxkgzkx vxuloz ot znk iarzaxk ul uznkx
gxzoirky; gtj hkigayk, roqkcoyk, znk gxzoirky ul cnoin znuyk yavvroky
iutyoyzkj, luxsotm yu rgxmk g vxuvuxzout ul znk kdvuxzy ul znk Atozkj
Yzgzky, ckxk tkbkx gjsozzkj otzu gte ul znk vuxzy ul Kaxuvk kdikvz ot igyky
ul mxkgz kskxmktie zu gbkxz g ykxouay igrgsoze.

Cnkt tu gxzoirk oy gjsozzkj cnoin oy tuz xkwaoxkj zu yavvre znk cgtzy ul
znk vgxze gjsozzotm oz, gtj gjsozzkj znkt tuz ot lgbux ul gte vgxzoiargx
iuatzxe zu znk joygjbgtzgmk ul uznkxy, haz ut iutjozouty kwagrre gvvroighrk
zu grr, oz ykksy payz zngz znk gxzoirky znay gjsozzkj gtj otbozkj ynuarj hk
igxxokj znoznkx ot znk bkyykry ul znk iuatzxe glluxjotm yain yavvre gtj
zngz znk xkiovxuioze ynuarj hk luatj ot g iuxxkyvutjotm giiussujgzout ut
znk uznkx yojk. He grrucotm kgin vgxze zu vgxzoiovgzk ot znk zxgtyvuxzgzout
ul yain yavvroky ut znk vgesktz ul kwagr zuttgmk g yzxutm vxuul cgy
glluxjkj ul gt giiussujgzotm yvoxoz. Zu ghgtjut zu oz znk zxgtyvuxzgzout ul
znk cnurk cuarj hk g ygixoloik cnoin uamnz tuz zu hk kdvkizkj. Znk jksgtj
ot znk vxkyktz otyzgtik cuarj hk znk suxk atxkgyutghrk ot iutyojkxgzout ul
znk mxkgz otkwagroze kdoyzotm ot znk zxgjk cozn znk vgxktz iuatzxe.

Yain cgy znk hgyoy ul uax yeyzks gy kyzghroynkj he znk giz ul 1815 gtj yain
ozy zxak ingxgizkx. Ot znk ekgx ot cnoin znoy giz cgy vgyykj g zxkgze cgy
iutirajkj cozn Mxkgz Hxozgot, ot yzxoiz iutluxsoze cozn ozy vxotiovrky, ot
xkmgxj zu nkx Kaxuvkgt jusotouty. Zu nkx iurutoky, nuckbkx, ot znk Ckyz
Otjoky gtj ut znoy iutzotktz oz cgy tuz kdzktjkj, znk Hxozoyn Mubkxtsktz
irgosotm znk kdirayobk yavvre ul znuyk iurutoky, gtj lxus uax uct vuxzy,
gtj ul znk vxujaizouty ul znk iurutoky ot xkzaxt ot nkx uct bkyykry. Zu
znoy irgos znk Atozkj Yzgzky iuarj tuz gyyktz, gtj ot iutykwaktik kgin
vgxze yayvktjkj znk otzkxiuaxyk ot znk bkyykry ul znk uznkx he g
vxunohozout cnoin yzorr kdoyzy.

Znk ygsk iutjozouty ckxk ullkxkj zu Lxgtik, haz tuz giikvzkj. Nkx
Mubkxtsktz ngy jksgtjkj uznkx iutjozouty suxk lgbuxghrk zu nkx tgbomgzout,
gtj cnoin ynuarj gryu mobk kdzxguxjotgxe ktiuaxgmksktz zu nkx sgtalgizaxky
gtj vxujaizouty ot vuxzy ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Zu znkyk oz cgy znuamnz
osvxuvkx zu giikjk, gtj ot iutykwaktik znk xkyzxoizobk xkmargzouty cnoin
ngj hkkt gjuvzkj ut nkx vgxz, hkotm iuatzkxbgorkj ut znk vgxz ul znk Atozkj
Yzgzky, znk joxkiz iusskxik hkzckkt znk zcu iuatzxoky ot znk bkyykry ul
kgin vgxze ngy hkkt ot mxkgz skgyaxk yayvktjkj. Oz oy sain zu hk xkmxkzzkj
zngz, grznuamn g tkmuzogzout ngy hkkt rutm vktjotm, yain oy znk jobkxyoze
ul bokcy ktzkxzgotkj ut znk bgxouay vuotzy cnoin ngbk hkkt hxuamnz otzu
joyiayyout zngz znkxk juky tuz gvvkgx zu hk gte xkgyutghrk vxuyvkiz ul ozy
kgxre iutirayout.

Oz oy se jaze zu yzgzk, gy g igayk ul bkxe mxkgz xkmxkz, zngz bkxe ykxouay
jollkxktiky ngbk uiiaxxkj ot znoy tkmuzogzout xkyvkizotm znk iutyzxaizout
ul znk 8zn gxzoirk ul znk zxkgze ul 1803, he cnoin Ruaoyogtg cgy ikjkj zu
znk Atozkj Yzgzky, gtj roqkcoyk xkyvkizotm znk ykofaxk ul znk Gvurru, ot
1820, lux g bourgzout ul uax xkbktak rgcy. Znk irgos ul znk Mubkxtsktz ul
Lxgtik ngy kdiozkj tuz rkyy yaxvxoyk zngt iutikxt, hkigayk znkxk juky tuz
gvvkgx zu hk g payz luatjgzout lux oz ot koznkx otyzgtik. He znk 8zn
gxzoirk ul znk zxkgze xklkxxkj zu oz oy yzovargzkj zngz glzkx znk
kdvoxgzout ul zckrbk ekgxy, jaxotm cnoin zosk oz cgy vxubojkj he znk 7zn ux
vxkikjotm gxzoirk zngz znk bkyykry ul Lxgtik gtj Yvgot ynuarj hk gjsozzkj
otzu znk vuxzy ul znk ikjkj zkxxozuxe coznuaz vgeotm nomnkx jazoky ut
skxingtjoyk ux zuttgmk ut znk bkyykry zngt yain gy ckxk vgoj he iozofkty ul
znk Atozkj Yzgzky, znk ynovy ul Lxgtik ynuarj luxkbkx glzkxcgxjy hk vrgikj
ut znk luuzotm ul znk suyz lgbuxkj tgzout.

He znk uhbouay iutyzxaizout ul znoy gxzoirk oz oy vxkyaskj zngz oz cgy
otzktjkj zngz tu lgbux ynuarj hk mxgtzkj zu gte vuckx ot znuyk vuxzy zu
cnoin Lxgtik ynuarj tuz hk luxzncozn ktzozrkj, tux ynuarj gte giiussujgzout
hk grruckj zu gtuznkx vuckx ut iutjozouty zu cnoin ynk cuarj tuz gryu hk
ktzozrkj ut znk ygsk iutjozouty. Atjkx znoy iutyzxaizout tu lgbux ux
giiussujgzout iuarj hk mxgtzkj zu gte vuckx zu znk vxkpajoik ul Lxgtik. He
grrucotm znk kwaobgrktz grruckj he znuyk vuckxy ynk cuarj grcgey yzgtj ot
znuyk vuxzy ut znk luuzotm ul znk suyz lgbuxkj tgzout.

Haz ol znoy gxzoirk ynuarj hk yu iutyzxakj gy zngz Lxgtik ynuarj ktpue, ul
xomnz, gtj coznuaz vgeotm znk kwaobgrktz, grr znk gjbgtzgmky ul yain
iutjozouty gy somnz hk grruckj zu uznkx vuckxy ot xkzaxt lux osvuxzgtz
iutikyyouty sgjk he znks, znkt znk cnurk ingxgizkx ul znk yzovargzouty
cuarj hk ingtmkj. Ynk cuarj tuz hk vrgikj ut znk luuzotm ul znk suyz
lgbuxkj tgzout, haz ut g luuzotm nkrj he tu uznkx tgzout. Ynk cuarj ktpue
grr gjbgtzgmky grruckj zu znks ot iutyojkxgzout ul roqk gjbgtzgmky grruckj
zu ay, lxkk lxus kbkxe gtj gte iutjozout cngzkbkx.

Gy rozzrk igayk ngy znk Mubkxtsktz ul Lxgtik zu iusvrgot ul znk ykofaxk ul
znk Gvurru gtj znk xksubgr ul uznkx bkyykry lxus znk cgzkxy ul znk Yz.
Sgxey. Oz corr tuz hk jktokj zngz kbkxe tgzout ngy g xomnz zu xkmargzk ozy
iusskxiogr yeyzks gy oz znotqy loz gtj zu ktluxik znk iurrkizout ul ozy
xkbktak, vxubojkj oz hk jutk coznuaz gt otbgyout ul znk xomnzy ul uznkx
vuckxy. Znk bourgzout ul ozy xkbktak rgcy oy gt ullktyk cnoin grr tgzouty
vatoyn, znk vatoynsktz ul cnoin mobky tu payz igayk ul iusvrgotz zu znk
vuckx zu cnoin znk ullktjkxy hkrutm, vxubojkj oz hk kdzktjkj zu grr
kwagrre.

Ot znoy igyk kbkxe ioxiasyzgtik cnoin uiiaxxkj otjoigzkj g lodkj vaxvuyk zu
bourgzk uax xkbktak rgcy. Ngj znk vgxze otzktjkj zu ngbk vaxyakj g lgox
zxgjk nk cuarj ngbk ktzkxkj znk vuxz ul yusk uznkx vuckx, rgtjkj noy muujy
gz znk iayzus nuayk giiuxjotm zu rgc, gtj xk-ynovvkj gtj yktz znks ot znk
bkyykr ul yain vuckx, ux ul yusk uznkx vuckx cnoin somnz rgclarre hxotm
znks, lxkk lxus yain jazoky, zu g vuxz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Haz znk
iutjaiz ul znk vgxze ot znoy igyk cgy grzumkznkx jollkxktz. Nk ktzkxkj znk
xobkx Yz. Sgxey, znk huatjgxe rotk hkzckkt znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj Lruxojg,
gtj zuuq noy vuyozout ut znk Yvgtoyn yojk, ut cnoin ot znk cnurk kdzktz ul
znk xobkx znkxk cgy tu zuct, tu vuxz ux iayzus nuayk, gtj yigxikre gte
ykzzrksktz. Noy vaxvuyk, znkxkluxk, cgy tuz zu ykrr noy muujy zu znk
otnghozgtzy ul Lruxojg, haz zu iozofkty ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, ot kdingtmk
lux znkox vxujaizouty, cnoin iuarj tuz hk jutk coznuaz g joxkiz gtj
vgrvghrk hxkgin ul uax rgcy. Oz oy qtuct zngz g xkmargx yeyzksgzoi vrgt ngj
hkkt luxskj he ikxzgot vkxyuty lux znk bourgzout ul uax xkbktak yeyzks,
cnoin sgjk oz znk suxk tkikyygxe zu inkiq znk vxuikkjotm ot ozy
iussktiksktz.

Zngz znk atykzzrkj hgtq ul g xobkx yu xksuzk lxus znk Yvgtoyn mgxxoyuty gtj
vuvargzout iuarj mobk tu vxuzkizout zu gte vgxze ot yain g vxgizoik oy
hkrokbkj zu hk ot yzxoiz giiuxj cozn znk rgc ul tgzouty. Oz cuarj tuz ngbk
iusvuxzkj cozn g lxoktjre vuroie ot Yvgot nkxykrl zu ngbk kyzghroynkj g
iayzus nuayk znkxk, yotik oz iuarj ngbk yahykxbkj tu uznkx vaxvuyk zngt zu
krajk uax xkbktak rgc. Haz znk Mubkxtsktz ul Yvgot joj tuz gjuvz zngz
skgyaxk. Ut znk iutzxgxe, oz oy atjkxyzuuj zngz znk Igvzgot-Mktkxgr ul
Iahg, zu cnus gt gvvroigzout zu zngz kllkiz cgy sgjk he znkyk gjbktzaxkxy,
ngj tuz giikjkj zu oz.

Znk iutjozout ul znuyk Vxubotiky lux sgte ekgxy hkluxk znke ckxk ikjkj zu
znk Atozkj Yzgzky tkkj tuz tuc hk jckrz ut. Otnghozkj he jollkxktz zxohky
ul Otjogty gtj gt otxugj lux kbkxe qotj ul gjbktzaxkx, znk paxoyjoizout ul
Yvgot sge hk ygoj zu ngbk hkkt grsuyz kdirayobkre iutlotkj zu nkx
mgxxoyuty. Oz ikxzgotre iuarj tuz kdzktj zu vrgiky cnkxk ynk ngj tu
gaznuxoze. Znk xarky, znkxkluxk, gvvroighrk zu ykzzrkj iuatzxoky mubkxtkj
he rgcy iuarj tuz hk jkkskj yu zu znk jkykxzy ul Lruxojg gtj zu znk
uiiaxxktiky znkxk.

Oz skxozy gzzktzout gryu zngz znk zkxxozuxe ngj hkkt ikjkj zu znk Atozkj
Yzgzky he g zxkgze znk xgzoloigzout ul cnoin ngj tuz hkkt xklaykj, gtj
cnoin ngy yotik hkkt vkxluxskj. Atjkx gte ioxiasyzgtiky, znkxkluxk, Yvgot
hkigsk rkyy xkyvutyohrk lux yain gizy iussozzkj znkxk, gtj znk Atozkj
Yzgzky suxk gz rohkxze zu kdkxioyk gaznuxoze zu vxkbktz yu mxkgz g
soyinokl. Znk iutjaiz ul znoy Mubkxtsktz ngy ot kbkxe otyzgtik hkkt
iutiorogzuxe gtj lxoktjre zu Lxgtik. Znk iutyzxaizout ul uax xkbktak rgc ot
ozy gvvroigzout zu znk igyky cnoin ngbk luxskj znk mxuatj ul yain ykxouay
iusvrgotz ut nkx vgxz gtj znk uxjkx zu znk iurrkizux ul Yz. Sgxey, ot
giiuxj cozn oz, ckxk mobkt zcu ekgxy hkluxk znkyk igyky uiiaxxkj, gtj ot
xklkxktik zu g hxkgin cnoin cgy gzzksvzkj he znk yahpkizy ul gtuznkx vuckx.
Znk gvvroigzout, znkxkluxk, zu znk igyky ot wakyzout cgy otkbozghrk. Gy
yuut gy znk zxkgze he cnoin znkyk Vxubotiky ckxk ikjkj zu znk Atozkj Yzgzky
cgy xgzolokj, gtj grr jgtmkx ul laxznkx hxkgin ul uax xkbktak rgcy ikgykj,
gt uxjkx cgy mobkt lux znk xkrkgyk ul znk bkyykr cnoin ngj hkkt ykofkj gtj
lux znk joysoyyout ul znk rohkr cnoin ngj hkkt otyzozazkj gmgotyz nkx.

Znk vxotiovrky ul znoy yeyzks ul xkiovxuioze, luatjkj ut znk rgc ul
Sgxin 3xj, 1815, ngbk hkkt yotik igxxokj otzu kllkiz cozn znk Qotmjusy ul
znk Tkznkxrgtjy, Yckjkt, Vxayyog, gtj cozn Ngshaxm, Rahkiq, gtj Urjkthaxm,
cozn g vxuboyout sgjk he yahykwaktz rgcy ot xkmgxj zu znk Tkznkxrgtjy,
Vxayyog, Ngshaxm, gtj Hxkskt zngz yain vxujaik gtj sgtalgizaxky gy iuarj
utre hk, ux suyz ayagrre ckxk, loxyz ynovvkj lxus znk vuxzy ul znuyk
iuatzxoky, znk ygsk hkotm osvuxzkj ot bkyykry cnurre hkrutmotm zu znkox
yahpkizy, ynuarj hk iutyojkxkj gtj gjsozzkj gy znkox uct sgtalgizaxky gtj
vxujaizouty.

Znk Mubkxtsktz ul Tuxcge ngy he gt uxjotgtik uvktkj znk vuxzy ul zngz vgxz
ul znk jusotouty ul znk Qotm ul Yckjkt zu znk bkyykry ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky
avut znk vgesktz ul tu uznkx ux nomnkx jazoky zngt gxk vgoj he Tuxckmogt
bkyykry, lxus cngzkbkx vrgik gxxobotm gtj cozn cngzkbkx gxzoirky rgjkt.
Znke ngbk xkwakyzkj znk xkiovxuigr grrucgtik lux znk bkyykry ul Tuxcge ot
znk vuxzy ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Gy znoy vxoborkmk oy tuz coznot znk yiuvk
ul znk giz ul Sgxin 3xj, 1815, gtj igt utre hk mxgtzkj he Iutmxkyy, gtj gy
oz sge otburbk znk iusskxiogr xkrgzouty ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky cozn uznkx
tgzouty, znk yahpkiz oy yahsozzkj zu znk coyjus ul Iutmxkyy.

O ngbk vxkyktzkj znay larre zu euax bokc uax iusskxiogr xkrgzouty cozn
uznkx vuckxy, zngz, ykkotm znks ot jkzgor cozn kgin vuckx, gtj qtucotm znk
hgyoy ut cnoin znke xkyz, Iutmxkyy sge ot ozy coyjus jkiojk cnkznkx gte
ingtmk uamnz zu hk sgjk, gtj, ol gte, ot cngz xkyvkiz. Ol znoy hgyoy oy
atpayz ux atxkgyutghrk, yaxkre oz uamnz zu hk ghgtjutkj; haz ol oz hk payz
gtj xkgyutghrk, gtj gte ingtmk ot oz corr sgqk iutikyyouty yahbkxyobk ul
kwagroze gtj zktjotm ot ozy iutykwaktiky zu ygv znk luatjgzouty ul uax
vxuyvkxoze, znkt znk xkgyuty gxk kwagrre yzxutm lux gjnkxotm zu znk mxuatj
grxkgje zgqkt, gtj yavvuxzotm oz he yain laxznkx xkmargzouty gy sge gvvkgx
zu hk vxuvkx, ynuarj gte gjjozoutgr yavvuxz hk luatj tkikyygxe.

Znk wakyzout iutikxtotm znk iutyzxaizout ul znk loxyz gxzoirk ul znk zxkgze
ul Mnktz ngy hkkt, he g puotz giz ul znk xkvxkyktzgzobky ul znk Atozkj
Yzgzky gtj ul Mxkgz Hxozgot gz znk Iuaxz ul Yz. Vkzkxyhaxm, yahsozzkj zu
znk jkioyout ul Noy Osvkxogr Sgpkyze znk Ksvkxux ul Xayyog. Znk xkyarz ul
zngz yahsoyyout ngy tuz ekz hkkt xkikobkj. Znk iussoyyoutkxy atjkx znk 5zn
gxzoirk ul zngz zxkgze tuz ngbotm hkkt ghrk zu gmxkk avut znkox jkioyout,
znkox xkvuxzy zu znk zcu Mubkxtsktzy, giiuxjotm zu znk vxuboyouty ul znk
zxkgze, sge hk kdvkizkj gz gt kgxre jge.

Cozn Yvgot znk zxkgze ul Lkhxagxe 22tj, 1819, ngy hkkt vgxzre igxxokj otzu
kdkiazout. Vuyykyyout ul Kgyz gtj Ckyz Lruxojg ngy hkkt mobkt zu znk
Atozkj Yzgzky, haz znk ulloikxy ingxmkj cozn zngz ykxboik he gt uxjkx
lxus Noy Igznuroi Sgpkyze, jkrobkxkj he noy sotoyzkx zu znk Ykixkzgxe ul
Yzgzk, gtj zxgtysozzkj he g yvkiogr gmktz zu znk Igvzgot-Mktkxgr ul Iahg,
zu cnus oz cgy joxkizkj gtj ot cnus znk Mubkxtsktz ul znuyk Vxubotiky
cgy bkyzkj, ngbk tuz utre usozzkj, ot iutzxgbktzout ul znk uxjkx ul znkox
Yubkxkomt, znk vkxluxsgtik ul znk kdvxkyy yzovargzout zu jkrobkx ubkx znk
gxinobky gtj juiasktzy xkrgzotm zu znk vxuvkxze gtj yubkxkomtze ul znuyk
Vxubotiky, grr ul cnoin oz cgy kdvkizkj cuarj ngbk hkkt jkrobkxkj koznkx
hkluxk ux cnkt znk zxuuvy ckxk coznjxgct, haz jklkgzkj yotik kbkxe klluxz
ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky zu uhzgot znks, kyvkiogrre znuyk ul znk mxkgzkyz
osvuxzgtik. Znoy usoyyout ngy mobkt xoyk zu ykbkxgr otiojktzy ul g vgotlar
tgzaxk, znk ingxgizkx ul cnoin corr hk larre joyiruykj he znk juiasktzy
cnoin corr hk nkxkglzkx iussatoigzkj.

Ot kbkxe uznkx ioxiasyzgtik ul znk rgc ul znk 3xj ul Sgxin rgyz, lux
igxxeotm otzu kllkiz zngz zxkgze, ngy hkkt jare gzzktjkj zu. Lux znk
kdkiazout ul zngz vgxz cnoin vxkykxbkj ot luxik, lux znk Mubkxtsktz ul znk
otnghozgtzy lux znk zkxs yvkiolokj, grr znk iobor, sorozgxe, gtj pajoiogr
vuckxy kdkxioykj he znk kdoyzotm Mubkxtsktz ul znuyk Vxubotiky gt gjkwagzk
tashkx ul ulloikxy, gy cgy vxkyaskj, ckxk gvvuotzkj, gtj uxjkxkj zu znkox
xkyvkizobk yzgzouty. Huzn Vxubotiky ckxk luxskj otzu utk Zkxxozuxe, gtj g
mubkxtux gvvuotzkj lux oz; haz ot iutyojkxgzout ul znk vxk-kdoyzotm
joboyout gtj ul znk joyzgtik gtj jolloiarze ul iussatoigzout hkzckkt
Vktygiurg, znk xkyojktik ul znk mubkxtux ul Ckyz Lruxojg, gtj Yz.
Gamayzotk, zngz ul znk mubkxtux ul Kgyz Lruxojg, gz cnoin vrgiky znk
otiutyojkxghrk vuvargzout ul kgin Vxubotik cgy vxotiovgrre iurrkizkj, zcu
ykixkzgxoky ckxk gvvuotzkj, znk utk zu xkyojk gz Vktygiurg gtj znk uznkx gz
Yz. Gamayzotk.

Jak gzzktzout cgy roqkcoyk vgoj zu znk kdkiazout ul znk rgcy ul znk Atozkj
Yzgzky xkrgzotm zu znk xkbktak gtj znk yrgbk zxgjk, cnoin ckxk kdzktjkj zu
znkyk Vxubotiky. Znk cnurk Zkxxozuxe cgy jobojkj otzu znxkk iurrkizout
joyzxoizy, zngz vgxz reotm hkzckkt znk xobkx Yz. Sgxey gtj Igvk Lruxojg
luxsotm utk, zngz lxus znk Igvk zu znk Gvgrginoiurg gtuznkx, gtj zngz lxus
znk Gvgrginoiurg zu znk Vkxjoju znk znoxj. Zu znkyk joyzxoizy znk ayagr
tashkx ul xkbktak ulloikxy ckxk gvvuotzkj; gtj zu ykiaxk znk jak uvkxgzout
ul znkyk rgcy utk pajmk gtj g joyzxoiz gzzuxtke ckxk gvvuotzkj zu xkyojk gz
Vktygiurg, gtj roqkcoyk utk pajmk gtj g joyzxoiz gzzuxtke zu xkyojk gz Yz.
Gamayzotk, cozn g yvkiolokj huatjgxe hkzckkt znks; gtj utk sgxyngr lux znk
cnurk, cozn gaznuxoze zu gvvuotz g jkvaze.

Ot igxxeotm znoy rgc otzu kllkiz, gtj kyvkiogrre zngz vgxz xkrgzotm zu znk
vuckxy ul znk kdoyzotm Mubkxtsktz ul znuyk Vxubotiky, oz cgy znuamnz
osvuxzgtz, ot iutyojkxgzout ul znk ynuxz zkxs lux cnoin oz cgy zu uvkxgzk
gtj znk xgjoigr ingtmk cnoin cuarj hk sgjk gz znk gvvxuginotm ykyyout ul
Iutmxkyy, zu gbuoj kdvktyk, zu sgqk tu gvvuotzsktz cnoin ynuarj tuz hk
ghyurazkre tkikyygxe zu mobk kllkiz zu znuyk vuckxy, zu coznjxgc tutk ul
uax iozofkty lxus znkox vaxyaozy, cnkxkhe zu yahpkiz znk Mubkxtsktz zu
irgosy cnoin iuarj tuz hk mxgzolokj gtj znk vgxzoky zu ruyyky cnoin oz
cuarj hk vgotlar zu coztkyy.

Oz ngy hkkt ykkt cozn sain iutikxt zngz ot znk vkxluxsgtik ul znkyk jazoky
g iurroyout gxuyk hkzckkt znk mubkxtux ul znk Zkxxozuxe gtj znk pajmk
gvvuotzkj lux znk ckyzkxt joyzxoiz. Oz cgy vxkyaskj zngz znk rgc atjkx
cnoin znoy zxgtyozuxe Mubkxtsktz cgy uxmgtofkj, gtj znk iussoyyouty cnoin
ckxk mxgtzkj zu znk ulloikxy cnu ckxk gvvuotzkj zu kdkiazk kgin hxgtin ul
znk yeyzks, gtj zu cnoin znk iussoyyouty ckxk gjgvzkj, cuarj ngbk hkkt
atjkxyzuuj ot znk ygsk yktyk he znks ot cnoin znke ckxk atjkxyzuuj he znk
Kdkiazobk. Sain grrucgtik oy jak zu ulloikxy ksvruekj ot kgin hxgtin ul
znoy yeyzks, gtj znk suxk yu gy znkxk oy muuj igayk zu hkrokbk zngz kgin
gizkj atjkx znk iutboizout zngz nk vuyykyykj znk vuckx cnoin nk atjkxzuuq
zu kdkxioyk. Ul znk ulloikx nurjotm znk vxotiovgr yzgzout, O znotq oz
vxuvkx zu uhykxbk zngz nk giikvzkj oz cozn xkraizgtik, ot iusvrogtik cozn
znk otbozgzout mobkt nos, gtj lxus g nomn yktyk ul jaze zu noy iuatzxe,
hkotm corrotm zu iutzxohazk zu znk iutyassgzout ul gt kbktz cnoin cuarj
otyaxk iusvrkzk vxuzkizout zu gt osvuxzgtz vgxz ul uax Atout, cnoin ngj
yallkxkj sain lxus otiaxyout gtj otbgyout, gtj zu znk jklktyk ul cnoin noy
bkxe mgrrgtz gtj vgzxouzoi ykxboiky ngj hkkt yu yomtgrre gtj ayklarre
jkbuzkj.

Lxus znk otzxotyoi jolloiarze ul kdkiazotm rgcy jkxobotm znkox uxomot lxus
jollkxktz yuaxiky, gtj yu kyyktzogrre jollkxktz ot sgte osvuxzgtz
ioxiasyzgtiky, znk gjbgtzgmk, gtj otjkkj znk tkikyyoze, ul kyzghroynotm gy
yuut gy vxgizoighrk g ckrr-uxmgtofkj Mubkxtsktz ubkx zngz Zkxxozuxe ut znk
vxotiovrky ul uax yeyzks oy gvvgxktz. Znoy yahpkiz oy znkxkluxk xkiussktjkj
zu znk kgxre iutyojkxgzout ul Iutmxkyy.

Ot iusvrogtik cozn gt otpatizout ul znk rgc ul znk 3xj ul Sgxin rgyz, znxkk
iussoyyoutkxy ngbk gryu hkkt gvvuotzkj gtj g hugxj uxmgtofkj lux igxxeotm
otzu kllkiz znk 11zn gxzoirk ul znk zxkgze ghubk xkiozkj, sgqotm vxuboyout
lux znk vgesktz ul yain ul uax iozofkty gy ngbk ckrr-luatjkj irgosy ut
Yvgot ul znk ingxgizkx yvkiolokj he zngz zxkgze. Znoy hugxj ngy ktzkxkj ut
ozy jazoky gtj sgjk yusk vxumxkyy znkxkot. Znk iussoyyoutkx gtj yaxbkeux ul
Noy Igznuroi Sgpkyze, vxubojkj lux he znk 4zn gxzoirk ul znk zxkgze, ngbk
tuz ekz gxxobkj ot znk Atozkj Yzgzky, haz gxk yuut kdvkizkj. Gy yuut gy
znke ju gxxobk iuxxkyvutjotm gvvuotzsktzy corr hk sgjk gtj kbkxe lgioroze
hk glluxjkj lux znk jak kdkiazout ul znoy ykxboik.

Znk Mubkxtsktz ul Noy Suyz Lgoznlar Sgpkyze yotik znk zkxsotgzout ul znk
rgyz ykyyout ul Iutmxkyy ngy hkkt xksubkj lxus Xou jk Pgtkoxu zu Royhut,
cnkxk g xkburazout yosorgx zu zngz cnoin ngj uiiaxxkj ot znk tkomnhuxotm
Qotmjus ul Yvgot ngj ot roqk sgttkx hkkt ygtizoutkj he znk giikvzkj gtj
vrkjmkj lgozn ul znk xkomtotm sutgxin. Znk jovrusgzoi otzkxiuaxyk hkzckkt
znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj znk Vuxzamakyk jusotouty, otzkxxavzkj he znoy
osvuxzgtz kbktz, ngy tuz ekz hkkt xkyaskj, haz znk ingtmk ul otzkxtgr
gjsotoyzxgzout ngbotm grxkgje sgzkxogrre gllkizkj znk iusskxiogr
otzkxiuaxyk ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky cozn znk Vuxzamakyk jusotouty, znk xktkcgr
ul znk vahroi soyyouty hkzckkt znk zcu iuatzxoky gvvkgxy zu hk jkyoxghrk gz
gt kgxre jge.

Oz oy atjkxyzuuj zngz znk iurutoky ot Yuazn Gskxoig ngbk ngj mxkgz yaiikyy
jaxotm znk vxkyktz ekgx ot znk yzxammrk lux znkox otjkvktjktik. Znk tkc
Mubkxtsktz ul Iurushog ngy kdzktjkj ozy zkxxozuxoky gtj iutyojkxghre
gamsktzkj ozy yzxktmzn, gtj gz Haktuy Gexky, cnkxk iobor joyyktyouty ngj
lux yusk zosk hkluxk vxkbgorkj, mxkgzkx ngxsute gtj hkzzkx uxjkx gvvkgx zu
ngbk hkkt kyzghroynkj. Kwagr yaiikyy ngy gzzktjkj znkox klluxzy ot znk
Vxubotiky ut znk Vgioloi. Oz ngy rutm hkkt sgtolkyz zngz oz cuarj hk
osvuyyohrk lux Yvgot zu xkjaik znkyk iurutoky he luxik, gtj kwagrre yu zngz
tu iutjozouty ynuxz ul znkox otjkvktjktik cuarj hk ygzoylgizuxe zu znks. Oz
sge znkxkluxk hk vxkyaskj, gtj oz oy kgxtkyzre nuvkj, zngz znk Mubkxtsktz
ul Yvgot, maojkj he ktromnzktkj gtj rohkxgr iuatiory, corr lotj oz zu
iusvuxz cozn ozy otzkxkyzy gtj jak zu ozy sgmtgtosoze zu zkxsotgzk znoy
kdngayzotm iutzxubkxye ut zngz hgyoy. Zu vxusuzk znoy xkyarz he lxoktjre
iuatykr cozn znk Mubkxtsktz ul Yvgot corr hk znk uhpkiz ul znk Mubkxtsktz
ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky.

Ot iutjaizotm znk loyigr uvkxgzouty ul znk ekgx oz ngy hkkt luatj tkikyygxe
zu igxxe otzu larr kllkiz znk giz ul znk rgyz ykyyout ul Iutmxkyy
gaznuxofotm g rugt ul $5 sorrouty. Znoy yas ngy hkkt xgoykj gz gt gbkxgmk
vxksoas ul $5.59 vkx iktzas avut yzuiq hkgxotm gt otzkxkyz gz znk xgzk ul
5% vkx gttas, xkjkksghrk gz znk uvzout ul znk Mubkxtsktz glzkx Pgtagxe
1yz, 1835.

Znkxk ngy hkkt oyyakj atjkx znk vxuboyouty ul znoy giz $4,735,296.30 ul 5%
yzuiq, gtj znkxk ngy hkkt ux corr hk xkjkkskj jaxotm znk ekgx $3,197,030.71
ul Ruaoyogtg 6% jklkxxkj yzuiq gtj Soyyoyyovvo yzuiq. Znkxk ngy znkxkluxk
hkkt gt gizagr otixkgyk ul znk vahroi jkhz iutzxgizkj jaxotm znk ekgx ul
$1,538,266.69.

Znk xkikovzy otzu znk Zxkgyaxe lxus znk loxyz ul Pgtagxe zu znk 30zn ul
Ykvzkshkx rgyz ngbk gsuatzkj zu $16,219,197.70, cnoin, cozn znk hgrgtik ul
$1,198,461.21 ot znk Zxkgyaxe ut znk luxskx jge, sgqk znk gmmxkmgzk yas ul
$17,417,658.91. Znk vgesktzy lxus znk Zxkgyaxe jaxotm znk ygsk vkxouj ngbk
gsuatzkj zu $15,655,288.47, rkgbotm ot znk Zxkgyaxe ut znk rgyz-sktzoutkj
jge znk yas ul $1,762,370.44. Oz oy kyzosgzkj zngz znk xkikovzy ul znk 4zn
wagxzkx ul znk ekgx corr kdikkj znk jksgtjy cnoin corr hk sgjk ut znk
Zxkgyaxe jaxotm znk ygsk vkxouj, gtj zngz znk gsuatz ot znk Zxkgyaxe ut znk
30zn ul Ykvzkshkx rgyz corr hk otixkgykj ut znk loxyz jge ul Pgtagxe tkdz.

Gz znk iruyk ul znk rgyz ykyyout oz cgy gtzoiovgzkj zngz znk vxumxkyyobk
josotazout ul znk vahroi xkbktak ot 1819 gtj 1820, cnoin ngj hkkt znk
xkyarz ul znk rgtmaoj yzgzk ul uax luxkomt iusskxik ot znuyk ekgxy, ngj ot
znk rgzzkx ekgx xkginkj ozy kdzxksk vuotz ul jkvxkyyout. Oz ngy, nuckbkx,
hkkt gyikxzgotkj zngz zngz vuotz cgy xkginkj utre gz znk zkxsotgzout ul znk
loxyz wagxzkx ul znk vxkyktz ekgx. Lxus zngz zosk atzor znk 30zn ul
Ykvzkshkx rgyz znk jazoky ykiaxkj ngbk kdikkjkj znuyk ul znk iuxxkyvutjotm
wagxzkxy ul znk rgyz ekgx $1.172 sorrouty, cnoryz znk gsuatz ul jkhktzaxky
oyyakj jaxotm znk znxkk loxyz wagxzkxy ul znoy ekgx oy $952,000 rkyy zngt
zngz ul znk ygsk wagxzkxy ul znk rgyz ekgx.

Znkxk gxk payz mxuatjy zu hkrokbk zngz znk osvxubksktz cnoin ngy uiiaxxkj
ot znk xkbktak jaxotm znk rgyz-sktzoutkj vkxouj corr tuz utre hk
sgotzgotkj, haz zngz oz corr vxumxkyyobkre otixkgyk znxuamn znk tkdz gtj
ykbkxgr yaiikkjotm ekgxy, yu gy zu xkgrofk znk xkyarzy cnoin ckxk vxkyktzkj
avut zngz yahpkiz he znk ulloiogr xkvuxzy ul znk Zxkgyaxe gz znk
iussktiksktz ul znk rgyz ykyyout ul Iutmxkyy.

Atjkx znk otlraktik ul znk suyz atlgbuxghrk ioxiasyzgtiky znk xkbktak lux
znk tkdz gtj yahykwaktz ekgxy zu znk ekgx 1825 corr kdikkj znk jksgtjy gz
vxkyktz gaznuxofkj he rgc.

Oz sge lgoxre hk vxkyaskj zngz atjkx znk vxuzkizout mobkt zu juskyzoi
sgtalgizaxky he znk kdoyzotm rgcy ck yngrr hkiusk gz tu joyzgtz vkxouj g
sgtalgizaxotm iuatzxe ut gt kdzktyobk yigrk. Vuyykyyotm gy ck ju znk xgc
sgzkxogry ot yain bgyz gsuatz, cozn g igvgioze zu gamsktz znks zu gt
otjklotozk kdzktz; xgoyotm coznot znk iuatzxe grosktz ul kbkxe qotj zu gt
gsuatz lgx kdikkjotm znk jksgtj lux nusk iutyasvzout, kbkt ot znk suyz
atlgbuxghrk ekgxy, gtj zu hk uhzgotkj grcgey gz g bkxe sujkxgzk vxoik;
yqorrkj gryu, gy uax vkuvrk gxk, ot znk skingtoi gxzy gtj ot kbkxe
osvxubksktz igriargzkj zu rkyykt znk jksgtj lux gtj znk vxoik ul rghux, oz
oy sgtolkyz zngz znkox yaiikyy ot kbkxe hxgtin ul juskyzoi otjayzxe sge gtj
corr hk igxxokj, atjkx znk ktiuaxgmksktz mobkt he znk vxkyktz jazoky, zu gt
kdzktz zu skkz gte jksgtj cnoin atjkx g lgox iusvkzozout sge hk sgjk avut
oz.

G iutyojkxghrk otixkgyk ul juskyzoi sgtalgizaxky, he josotoynotm znk
osvuxzgzout ul luxkomt, corr vxuhghre zktj zu rkyykt znk gsuatz ul znk
vahroi xkbktak. Gy, nuckbkx, g rgxmk vxuvuxzout ul znk xkbktak cnoin oy
jkxobkj lxus jazoky oy xgoykj lxus uznkx gxzoirky zngt sgtalgizaxky, znk
jksgtj lux cnoin corr otixkgyk cozn uax vuvargzout, oz oy hkrokbkj zngz g
latj corr yzorr hk xgoykj lxus zngz yuaxik gjkwagzk zu znk mxkgzkx vgxz ul
znk vahroi kdvktjozaxky, kyvkiogrre gy znuyk kdvktjozaxky, ynuarj ck
iutzotak zu hk hrkyykj cozn vkgik, corr hk josotoynkj he znk iusvrkzout ul
znk luxzoloigzouty, juiq egxjy, gtj uznkx vahroi cuxqy, he znk gamsktzgzout
ul znk Tgbe zu znk vuotz zu cnoin oz oy vxuvuykj zu igxxe oz, gtj he znk
vgesktz ul znk vahroi jkhz, otirajotm vktyouty lux sorozgxe ykxboiky.

Oz igt tuz hk juahzkj zngz znk suxk iusvrkzk uax otzkxtgr xkyuaxiky gtj znk
rkyy jkvktjktz ck gxk ut luxkomt vuckxy lux kbkxe tgzoutgr gy ckrr gy
juskyzoi vaxvuyk znk mxkgzkx gtj suxk yzghrk corr hk znk vahroi lkroioze.
He znk otixkgyk ul juskyzoi sgtalgizaxky corr znk jksgtj lux znk xajk
sgzkxogry gz nusk hk otixkgykj, gtj znay corr znk jkvktjktik ul znk ykbkxgr
vgxzy ul uax Atout ut kgin uznkx gtj znk yzxktmzn ul znk Atout ozykrl hk
vxuvuxzoutghre gamsktzkj.

Ot znoy vxuikyy, cnoin oy bkxe jkyoxghrk, gtj otkbozghrk atjkx znk kdoyzotm
jazoky, znk xkyuaxiky cnoin uhbouayre vxkyktz znksykrbky zu yavvre g
jkloioktie ot znk xkbktak, ynuarj oz uiiax, gxk znk otzkxkyzy cnoin sge
jkxobk znk vxotiovgr hktkloz lxus znk ingtmk. Ol juskyzoi sgtalgizaxky gxk
xgoykj he jazoky ut luxkomt, znk jkloioktie ot znk latj tkikyygxe lux
vahroi vaxvuyky ynuarj hk yavvrokj he jazoky ut znk luxskx.

Gz znk rgyz ykyyout oz ykkskj juahzlar cnkznkx znk xkbktak jkxobkj lxus znk
vxkyktz yuaxiky cuarj hk gjkwagzk zu grr znk mxkgz vaxvuyky ul uax Atout,
otirajotm znk iutyzxaizout ul uax luxzoloigzouty, znk gamsktzgzout ul znk
Tgbe, gtj znk vxuzkizout ul uax iusskxik gmgotyz znk jgtmkxy zu cnoin oz oy
kdvuykj. Ngj znk jkloioktie hkkt yain gy zu yahpkiz ay zu znk tkikyyoze
koznkx zu ghgtjut znuyk skgyaxky ul jklktyk ux zu xkyuxz zu znk uznkx skgty
lux gjkwagzk latjy, znk iuaxyk vxkyktzkj zu znk gjuvzout ul g boxzauay gtj
ktromnzktkj vkuvrk gvvkgxkj zu hk g vrgot utk. Oz sayz hk mxgzoleotm zu grr
zu qtuc zngz znoy tkikyyoze juky tuz kdoyz. Tuznotm, nuckbkx, ot
iutzksvrgzout ul yain osvuxzgtz uhpkizy, cnoin igt hk kgyore vxubojkj lux,
ynuarj hk rklz zu ngfgxj. Oz oy znuamnz zngz znk xkbktak sge xkikobk gt
gamsktzgzout lxus znk kdoyzotm yuaxiky, gtj ot g sgttkx zu goj uax
sgtalgizaxky, coznuaz ngyzktotm vxksgzaxkre znk xkyarz cnoin ngy hkkt
yammkyzkj. Oz oy hkrokbkj zngz g sujkxgzk gjjozoutgr jaze ut ikxzgot
gxzoirky cuarj ngbk zngz kllkiz, coznuaz hkotm roghrk zu gte ykxouay
uhpkizout.

Znk kdgsotgzout ul znk cnurk iugyz, lux znk iutyzxaizout ul vkxsgtktz
luxzoloigzouty, lxus Yz. Ixuod zu znk Yghotk, cozn znk kdikvzout ul vgxz ul
znk zkxxozuxe rgzkre giwaoxkj, corr hk iusvrkzkj ot znk vxkyktz ekgx, gy
corr hk znk yaxbke ul znk Soyyoyyovvo, atjkx znk xkyurazout ul znk Nuayk ul
Xkvxkyktzgzobky, lxus znk suazn ul znk Unou zu znk uikgt, gtj roqkcoyk ul
znk Unou lxus Ruaoyborrk zu znk Soyyoyyovvo. G vxumxkyy iuxxkyvutjotm cozn
znk yasy gvvxuvxogzkj ngy gryu hkkt sgjk ot znk iutyzxaizout ul znkyk
luxzoloigzouty gz znk vuxzy jkyomtgzkj. Gy znke corr luxs g yeyzks ul
jklktyk lux znk cnurk sgxozosk lxutzokx, gtj ot iutykwaktik lux znk
otzkxoux, gtj gxk zu rgyz lux gmky, znk mxkgzkyz igxk ngy hkkt zgqkt zu lod
znk vuyozout ul kgin cuxq gtj zu luxs oz ut yain g yigrk gy corr hk
gjkwagzk zu znk vaxvuyk otzktjkj he oz. Grr znk otrkzy gtj gyygorghrk vgxzy
ul uax Atout ngbk hkkt sotazkre kdgsotkj, gtj vuyozouty zgqkt cozn g bokc
zu znk hkyz kllkiz, uhykxbotm ot kbkxe otyzgtik g payz xkmgxj lux kiutuse.
Juahzy, nuckbkx, hkotm ktzkxzgotkj gy zu znk vxuvxokze ul znk vuyozout gtj
kdzktz ul znk cuxq gz Jgavnotk Oyrgtj, laxznkx vxumxkyy ot oz cgy yayvktjkj
yuut glzkx znk rgyz ykyyout ul Iutmxkyy, gtj gt uxjkx mobkt zu znk Hugxj ul
Ktmotkkxy gtj Tgbgr Iussoyyoutkxy zu sgqk g laxznkx gtj suxk sotazk
kdgsotgzout ul oz ot huzn xkyvkizy, gtj zu xkvuxz znk xkyarz coznuaz
jkrge.

Jak vxumxkyy ngy hkkt sgjk ot znk iutyzxaizout ul bkyykry ul cgx giiuxjotm
zu znk rgc vxubojotm lux znk mxgjagr gamsktzgzout ul znk Tgbe, gtj zu znk
kdzktz ul kdoyzotm gvvxuvxogzouty. Znk bkyykry gaznuxofkj he znk giz ul
1820 ngbk grr hkkt iusvrkzkj gtj gxk tuc ot gizagr ykxboik. Tutk ul znk
rgxmkx ynovy ngbk hkkt ux corr hk rgatinkj lux znk vxkyktz, znk uhpkiz
hkotm zu vxuzkiz grr cnoin sge tuz hk xkwaoxkj lux osskjogzk ykxboik lxus
jkige he yaozghrk haorjotmy kxkizkj ubkx znks.

G ywagjxut ngy hkkt sgotzgotkj, gy nkxkzuluxk, ot znk Skjozkxxgtkgt, he
skgty cnkxkul vkgik ngy hkkt vxkykxbkj cozn znk Hgxhgxe Vuckxy. Znoy
ywagjxut ngy hkkt xkjaikj znk vxkyktz ekgx zu gy ysgrr g luxik gy oy
iusvgzohrk cozn znk larlorrsktz ul znk uhpkiz otzktjkj he oz. Lxus vgyz
kdvkxoktik gtj znk hkyz otluxsgzout xkyvkizotm znk bokcy ul znuyk vuckxy oz
oy joyzotizre atjkxyzuuj zngz ynuarj uax ywagjxut hk coznjxgct znke cuarj
yuut xkiussktik znkox nuyzorozoky gtj jkvxkjgzouty avut uax iusskxik. Znkox
luxzoloigzouty ngbk rgzkre hkkt xkhaorz gtj znkox sgxozosk luxik
otixkgykj.

Oz ngy gryu hkkt luatj tkikyygxe zu sgotzgot g tgbgr luxik ut znk Vgioloi
lux znk vxuzkizout ul znk bkxe osvuxzgtz otzkxkyzy ul uax iozofkty ktmgmkj
ot iusskxik gtj znk loynkxoky ot zngz ykg. Bkyykry ngbk roqkcoyk hkkt
ksvruekj ot ixaoyotm grutm znk Gzrgtzoi iugyz, ot znk Marl ul Skdoiu, ut
znk iugyz ul Glxoig, gtj ot znk tkomnhuxotm ykgy. Ot znk rgzzkx sgte
voxgioky ngbk hkkt iussozzkj ut uax iusskxik, gtj yu kdzktyobk cgy hkiusotm
znk xgtmk ul znuyk atvxotiovrkj gjbktzaxkxy zngz znkxk cgy igayk zu
gvvxknktj, coznuaz g zoskre gtj jkioyobk klluxz zu yavvxkyy znks, znk cuxyz
iutykwaktiky cuarj ktyak. Luxzatgzkre, g iutyojkxghrk inkiq ngy hkkt mobkt
zu zngz yvoxoz he uax ixaoykxy, cnu ngbk yaiikkjkj ot igvzaxotm gtj
jkyzxueotm ykbkxgr ul znkox bkyykry. Tkbkxznkrkyy, oz oy iutyojkxkj gt
uhpkiz ul nomn osvuxzgtik zu iutzotak znkyk ixaoyky atzor znk vxgizoik oy
ktzoxkre yavvxkyykj.

Roqk yaiikyy ngy gzzktjkj uax klluxzy zu yavvxkyy znk yrgbk zxgjk. Atjkx
znk lrgm ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj znk ygtizout ul znkox vgvkxy znk zxgjk
sge hk iutyojkxkj gy ktzoxkre yavvxkyykj, gtj ol gte ul uax iozofkty gxk
ktmgmkj ot oz atjkx znk lrgmy gtj vgvkxy ul uznkx vuckxy, oz oy utre lxus g
xkyvkiz ul znuyk vuckxy zngz znkyk ullktjkxy gxk tuz ykofkj gtj hxuamnz
nusk zu xkikobk znk vatoynsktz cnoin znk rgcy otlroiz. Ol kbkxe uznkx vuckx
ynuarj gjuvz znk ygsk vuroie gtj vaxyak znk ygsk bomuxuay skgty lux
igxxeotm oz otzu kllkiz, znk zxgjk iuarj tu rutmkx kdoyz.

Jkkvre osvxkyykj cozn znk hrkyyotmy cnoin ck ktpue, gtj ul cnoin ck ngbk
yain sgtolurj vxuuly, se sotj oy oxxkyoyzohre jxgct zu zngz Grsomnze Hkotm,
znk mxkgz yuaxik lxus cnktik znke vxuikkj gtj zu cnus uax suyz mxgzklar
giqtucrkjmsktzy gxk jak.