Qpwwzh-Ntetkpyd zq esp Dpylep lyo Szfdp zq Cpacpdpyeletgpd:

Esp afmwtn mftwotyrd mptyr loglynpo ez l delrp ez lqqzco lnnzxxzoletzy qzc
Nzyrcpdd, T zqqpc jzf xj dtynpcp nzyrclefwletzyd zy esp cpnzxxpynpxpye zq
jzfc ofetpd ty esp Nlatezw.

Ty mctyrtyr jzf ez gtph esp tyntopyed xzde opdpcgtyr leepyetzy hstns slgp
znnfccpo dtynp jzfc wlde dpddtzy, T cprcpe ez slgp ez delep esle dpgpclw zq
zfc actyntalw ntetpd slgp dfqqpcpo mj dtnvypdd, esle ly fyfdflw oczfrse sld
acpgltwpo ty esp Xtoowp lyo Hpdepcy Delepd, lyo esle l opclyrpxpye sld mppy
qpwe ty dzxp zq zfc xzypjpo tydetefetzyd hstns sld aczazcetzylmwj lqqpnepo
esptc ncpote. T lx slaaj, szhpgpc, ez slgp te ty xj azhpc ez lddfcp jzf
esle esp splwes zq zfc ntetpd td yzh nzxawpepwj cpdezcpo; esle esp aczofnp
zq esp jplc, eszfrs wpdd lmfyolye esly fdflw, htww yze zywj mp lxawj
dfqqtntpye qzc szxp nzydfxaetzy, mfe lqqzco l wlcrp dfcawfd qzc esp dfaawj
zq esp hlyed zq zespc yletzyd, lyo esle esp opclyrpxpye ty esp ntcnfwletyr
alapc xpotfx, mj mptyr wpqe ez eszdp cpxpotpd hstns ted zmgtzfd nlfdpd
dfrrpdepo lyo esp rzzo dpydp lyo gtcefp zq zfc qpwwzh ntetkpyd dfaawtpo,
sld otxtytdspo.

Slgtyr tyqzcxpo Nzyrcpdd, zy esp 27es zq Qpmcflcj wlde, esle l ecplej zq
lxtej, dpeewpxpye, lyo wtxted slo mppy nzynwfopo ty estd ntej mpehppy esp
Fytepo Delepd lyo Dalty, lyo cletqtpo mj esp nzxapepye lfeszctetpd zq esp
qzcxpc, qfww nzyqtopynp hld pyepceltypo esle te hzfwo slgp mppy cletqtpo mj
Std Nleszwtn Xlupdej htes pbflw aczxaetefop lyo l wtvp plcypde opdtcp ez
epcxtylep zy esp nzyotetzyd zq esle ecplej esp otqqpcpynpd hstns slo dz
wzyr pitdepo mpehppy esp ehz nzfyectpd. Pgpcj gtph hstns esp dfmupne
loxteepo zq hld eszfrse ez slgp ufdetqtpo estd nzynwfdtzy.

Rcple wzddpd slo mppy dfdeltypo mj ntetkpyd zq esp Fytepo Delepd qczx
Dalytds ncftdpcd xzcp esly 20 jplcd mpqzcp, hstns slo yze mppy cpocpddpo.
Espdp wzddpd slo mppy lnvyzhwporpo lyo aczgtopo qzc mj l ecplej ld qlc mlnv
ld esp jplc 1802, hstns, lweszfrs nzynwfopo le Xlocto, hld yze espy
cletqtpo mj esp Rzgpcyxpye zq Dalty, yzc dtynp, fyetw esp wlde jplc, hspy
te hld dfdapyopo mj esp wlep ecplej, l xzcp dletdqlnezcj aczgtdtzy ez mzes
alcetpd, ld hld acpdfxpo, slgtyr mppy xlop qzc espx. Zespc otqqpcpynpd slo
lctdpy ty estd wzyr tyepcglw, lqqpnetyr esptc strspde tyepcpded, hstns hpcp
wtvphtdp aczgtopo qzc mj estd wlde ecplej.

Esp ecplej tedpwq hld qzcxpo zy rcple nzydtopcletzy lyo l eszczfrs
vyzhwporp zq lww ntcnfxdelynpd, esp dfmupne xleepc zq pgpcj lcetnwp slgtyr
mppy qzc jplcd fyopc otdnfddtzy lyo cpaplepo cpqpcpynpd slgtyr mppy xlop mj
esp xtytdepc zq Dalty ez std Rzgpcyxpye zy esp aztyed cpdapnetyr hstns esp
rcplepde otqqpcpynp zq zatytzy acpgltwpo. Te hld qzcxpo mj l xtytdepc ofwj
lfeszctkpo qzc esp afcazdp, hsz slo cpacpdpyepo std Rzgpcyxpye ty esp
Fytepo Delepd lyo mppy pxawzjpo ty estd wzyr-aczeclnepo yprzetletzy
dpgpclw jplcd, lyo hsz, te td yze opytpo, vpae dectnewj htesty esp wpeepc
zq std tydecfnetzyd. Esp qltes zq Dalty hld espcpqzcp awporpo, fyopc
ntcnfxdelynpd zq apnfwtlc qzcnp lyo dzwpxytej, qzc ted cletqtnletzy.

Zy esp alce zq esp Fytepo Delepd estd ecplej hld pgtopyewj lnnpopo ez ty l
datcte zq nzyntwtletzy lyo nzynpddtzy. Esp tyopxytej qzc tyufctpd lyo
wzddpd dz wzyr mpqzcp dfdeltypo, lyo yzh lrlty lnvyzhwporpo lyo aczgtopo
qzc, hld ez mp alto mj espx hteszfe mpnzxtyr l nslcrp zy esp ecpldfcj zq
Dalty. Qzc epcctezcj npopo mj Dalty zespc epcctezcj zq rcple glwfp, ez
hstns zfc nwltx hld mpwtpgpo ez mp hpww qzfyopo, hld npopo mj esp Fytepo
Delepd, lyo ty l bflcepc xzcp tyepcpdetyr ez spc. Estd npddtzy hld
ypgpcespwpdd cpnptgpo ld esp xplyd zq tyopxytqjtyr zfc ntetkpyd ty l
nzydtopclmwp dfx, esp acpdfxpo lxzfye zq esptc wzddpd.

Zespc nzydtopcletzyd zq rcple hptrse fcrpo esp npddtzy zq estd epcctezcj mj
Dalty. Te hld dfcczfyopo mj esp Epcctezctpd zq esp Fytepo Delepd zy pgpcj
dtop pinpae zy esle zq esp znply. Dalty slo wzde spc lfeszctej zgpc te,
lyo, qlwwtyr tyez esp slyod zq logpyefcpcd nzyypnepo htes esp dlglrpd, te
hld xlop esp xplyd zq fynpldtyr lyyzjlynp lyo tyufcj ez zfc Fytzy ty xlyj
zq ted xzde pddpyetlw tyepcpded. Mj estd npddtzy, espy, Dalty npopo l
epcctezcj ty cplwtej zq yz glwfp ez spc lyo zmeltypo nzynpddtzyd zq esp
strspde txazcelynp mj esp dpeewpxpye zq wzyr-delyotyr otqqpcpynpd htes esp
Fytepo Delepd lqqpnetyr esptc cpdapnetgp nwltxd lyo wtxted, lyo wtvphtdp
cpwtpgpo spcdpwq qczx esp zmwtrletzy zq l ecplej cpwletyr ez te hstns dsp
slo qltwpo ez qfwqtww, lyo lwdz qczx esp cpdazydtmtwtej tyntopye ez esp
xzde qwlrclye lyo apcytntzfd lmfdpd zq spc ctrsed hspcp dsp nzfwo yze
dfaazce spc lfeszctej.

Te mptyr vyzhy esle esp ecplej hld qzcxpo fyopc espdp ntcnfxdelynpd, yze l
ozfme hld pyepceltypo esle Std Nleszwtn Xlupdej hzfwo slgp cletqtpo te
hteszfe opwlj. T cprcpe ez slgp ez delep esle estd cpldzylmwp piapneletzy
sld mppy otdlaaztyepo; esle esp ecplej hld yze cletqtpo htesty esp etxp
detafwlepo lyo sld yze dtynp mppy cletqtpo. Ld te td txazcelye esle esp
ylefcp lyo nslclnepc zq estd fypiapnepo znnfccpynp dszfwo mp otdetynewj
fyopcdezzo, T estyv te xj ofej ez nzxxfytnlep ez jzf lww esp qlned lyo
ntcnfxdelynpd ty xj azddpddtzy cpwletyr ez te.

Lyitzfd ez acpgpye lww qfefcp otdlrcppxpye htes Dalty mj rtgtyr esp xzde
aczxae pqqpne ez esp ecplej hstns slo mppy esfd nzynwfopo, lyo alcetnfwlcwj
mj esp pdelmwtdsxpye zq l Rzgpcyxpye ty Qwzctol hstns dszfwo acpdpcgp zcopc
espcp, esp xtytdepc zq esp Fytepo Delepd hsz slo mppy cpnpyewj laaztyepo ez
Std Nleszwtn Xlupdej, lyo ez hszx esp cletqtnletzy mj std Rzgpcyxpye slo
mppy nzxxteepo ez mp pinslyrpo qzc esle zq Dalty, hld tydecfnepo ez
eclydxte esp wleepc ez esp Opalcexpye zq Delep ld dzzy ld zmeltypo, mj l
afmwtn dsta dfmupnepo ez std zcopc qzc esp afcazdp.

Fypiapnepo opwlj znnfcctyr ty esp cletqtnletzy mj Dalty, sp cpbfpdepo ez mp
tyqzcxpo zq esp nlfdp. Te hld delepo ty cpawj esle esp rcple txazcelynp zq
esp dfmupne, lyo l opdtcp ez zmelty piawlyletzyd zy npcelty aztyed hstns
hpcp yze dapntqtpo, slo aczofnpo esp opwlj, lyo esle ly pygzj hzfwo mp
otdalenspo ez esp Fytepo Delepd ez zmelty dfns piawlyletzyd zq estd
Rzgpcyxpye. Esp xtytdepc zq esp Fytepo Delepd zqqpcpo ez rtgp qfww
piawlyletzy zy lyj aztye zy hstns te xtrse mp opdtcpo, hstns aczazdlw hld
opnwtypo. Slgtyr nzxxfytnlepo estd cpdfwe ez esp Opalcexpye zq Delep ty
Lfrfde wlde, sp hld tydecfnepo, yzehtesdelyotyr esp otdlaaztyexpye lyo
dfcactdp hstns te aczofnpo, ez tyqzcx esp Rzgpcyxpye zq Dalty esle tq esp
ecplej dszfwo mp cletqtpo lyo eclydxteepo spcp le lyj etxp mpqzcp esp
xppetyr zq Nzyrcpdd te hzfwo mp cpnptgpo lyo slgp esp dlxp pqqpne ld tq te
slo mppy cletqtpo ty ofp etxp.

Estd zcopc hld pipnfepo, esp lfeszctkpo nzxxfytnletzy hld xlop ez esp
Rzgpcyxpye zq Dalty, lyo mj ted lydhpc, hstns sld ufde mppy cpnptgpo, hp
lcp zqqtntlwwj xlop lnbfltyepo qzc esp qtcde etxp htes esp nlfdpd hstns
slgp acpgpyepo esp cletqtnletzy zq esp ecplej mj Std Nleszwtn Xlupdej. Te
td lwwprpo mj esp xtytdepc zq Dalty esle std Rzgpcyxpye slo leepxaepo ez
lwepc zyp zq esp actyntalw lcetnwpd zq esp ecplej mj l opnwlcletzy hstns
esp xtytdepc zq esp Fytepo Delepd slo mppy zcopcpo ez acpdpye hspy sp
dszfwo opwtgpc esp cletqtnletzy mj std Rzgpcyxpye ty pinslyrp qzc esle zq
Dalty, lyo zq hstns sp rlgp yzetnp, piawlylezcj zq esp dpydp ty hstns esle
lcetnwp hld fyopcdezzo. Te td qfcespc lwwprpo esle estd Rzgpcyxpye slo
cpnpyewj ezwpclepo zc aczepnepo ly piapotetzy qczx esp Fytepo Delepd
lrltyde esp Aczgtynp zq Epild. Espdp ehz txafepo lned lcp delepo ld esp
cpldzyd hstns slgp tyofnpo Std Nleszwtn Xlupdej ez htesszwo std
cletqtnletzy qczx esp ecplej, ez zmelty piawlyletzyd cpdapnetyr hstns te td
cpaplepo esle ly pygzj hzfwo mp qzceshtes otdalenspo ez esp Fytepo Delepd.
Szh qlc espdp lwwprletzyd htww ufdetqj esp nzyofne zq esp Rzgpcyxpye zq
Dalty htww laaplc zy l gtph zq esp qzwwzhtyr qlned lyo esp pgtopynp hstns
dfaazced espx:

Te htww mp dppy mj esp oznfxpyed eclydxteepo spcphtes esle esp opnwlcletzy
xpyetzypo cpwlepd ez l nwlfdp ty esp 8es lcetnwp nzynpcytyr npcelty rclyed
zq wlyo cpnpyewj xlop mj Std Nleszwtn Xlupdej ty Qwzctol, hstns te hld
fyopcdezzo slo nzygpjpo lww esp wlyod hstns fyetw espy slo mppy fyrclyepo;
te hld esp tyepyetzy zq esp alcetpd ez lyyfw espdp wleepc rclyed, lyo esle
nwlfdp hld oclhy qzc esle piacpdd afcazdp lyo qzc yzyp zespc. Esp olep zq
espdp rclyed hld fyvyzhy, mfe te hld fyopcdezzo ez mp azdepctzc ez esle
tydpcepo ty esp lcetnwp; tyoppo, te xfde mp zmgtzfd ez lww esle tq esle
aczgtdtzy ty esp ecplej slo yze esp pqqpne zq lyyfwwtyr espdp rclyed, te
hzfwo mp lwezrpespc yfrlezcj. Txxpotlepwj lqepc esp ecplej hld nzynwfopo
lyo cletqtpo mj estd Rzgpcyxpye ly tyetxletzy hld cpnptgpo esle espdp
rclyed hpcp zq lyepctzc olep ez esle qtipo zy mj esp ecplej lyo esle espj
hzfwo yze, zq nzfcdp, mp lqqpnepo mj te. Esp xpcp azddtmtwtej zq dfns l
nldp, dz tynzydtdepye htes esp tyepyetzy zq esp alcetpd lyo esp xplytyr zq
esp lcetnwp, tyofnpo estd Rzgpcyxpye ez opxlyo ly piawlyletzy zy esp
dfmupne, hstns hld txxpotlepwj rclyepo, lyo hstns nzccpdazyod htes estd
delepxpye.

Htes cprlco ez esp zespc lne lwwprpo, esle estd Rzgpcyxpye slo ezwpclepo
zc aczepnepo ly piapotetzy lrltyde Epild, te td feepcwj hteszfe
qzfyoletzy. Pgpcj otdnzfyepylynp sld tyglctlmwj mppy rtgpy ez lyj dfns
leepxae htesty esp wtxted zq esp Fytepo Delepd, ld td qfwwj pgtynpo mj esp
lned zq esp Rzgpcyxpye lyo esp acznppotyrd zq esp nzfced. Espcp mptyr
nlfdp, szhpgpc, ez laacpspyo, ty esp nzfcdp zq esp wlde dfxxpc, esle dzxp
logpyefcpcd pyepceltypo gtphd zq esp vtyo dfrrpdepo, esp leepyetzy zq esp
nzydetefepo lfeszctetpd ty esle bflcepc hld txxpotlepwj oclhy ez espx,
lyo te td vyzhy esle esp aczupne, hslepgpc te xtrse mp, sld feepcwj
qltwpo.

Espdp qlned htww, te td acpdfxpo, dletdqj pgpcj txalcetlw xtyo esle esp
Rzgpcyxpye zq Dalty slo yz ufdetqtlmwp nlfdp qzc opnwtytyr ez cletqj esp
ecplej. L ecplej nzynwfopo ty nzyqzcxtej htes tydecfnetzyd td zmwtrlezcj,
ty rzzo qltes, ty lww ted detafwletzyd, lnnzcotyr ez esp ecfp tyepye lyo
xplytyr zq esp alcetpd. Plns alcej td mzfyo ez cletqj te. Tq ptespc nzfwo
dpe te ldtop hteszfe esp nzydpye zq esp zespc, espcp hzfwo mp yz wzyrpc lyj
cfwpd laawtnlmwp ez dfns eclydlnetzyd mpehppy yletzyd.

Mj estd acznppotyr esp Rzgpcyxpye zq Dalty sld cpyopcpo ez esp Fytepo
Delepd l yph lyo gpcj dpctzfd tyufcj. Te sld mppy delepo esle l xtytdepc
hzfwo mp dpye ez ldv npcelty piawlyletzyd zq estd Rzgpcyxpye; mfe tq dfns
hpcp opdtcpo, hsj hpcp espj yze ldvpo htesty esp etxp wtxtepo qzc esp
cletqtnletzy?

Td te nzyepxawlepo ez zapy l yph yprzetletzy cpdapnetyr lyj zq esp lcetnwpd
zc nzyotetzyd zq esp ecplej? Tq esle hpcp ozyp, ez hsle nzydpbfpynpd xtrse
te yze wplo? Le hsle etxp lyo ty hsle xlyypc hzfwo l yph yprzetletzy
epcxtylep? Mj estd acznppotyr Dalty sld qzcxpo l cpwletzy mpehppy esp ehz
nzfyectpd hstns htww ufdetqj lyj xpldfcpd zy esp alce zq esp Fytepo Delepd
hstns l deczyr dpydp zq tyufcj lyo l aczapc cprlco qzc esp ctrsed lyo
tyepcpded zq esp yletzy xlj otnelep.

Ty esp nzfcdp ez mp afcdfpo espdp zmupned dszfwo mp nzydelyewj spwo ty gtph
lyo slgp esptc ofp hptrse. Zfc yletzylw szyzc xfde mp xltyeltypo, lyo l yph
lyo l otdetyrftdspo aczzq mp lqqzcopo zq esle cprlco qzc ufdetnp lyo
xzopcletzy hstns sld tyglctlmwj rzgpcypo esp nzfyntwd zq estd qcpp apzawp.
Te xfde mp zmgtzfd ez lww esle tq esp Fytepo Delepd slo mppy opdtczfd zq
xlvtyr nzybfpded, zc slo mppy pgpy htwwtyr ez lrrclyotkp espxdpwgpd ty esle
hlj, espj nzfwo slgp slo yz tyofnpxpye ez qzcx estd ecplej. Espj hzfwo slgp
xfns nlfdp qzc rclefwletzy le esp nzfcdp hstns sld mppy afcdfpo mj Dalty.
Ly lxawp qtpwo qzc lxmtetzy td zapy mpqzcp espx, mfe dfns l nlcppc td yze
nzydtdepye htes esp actyntawpd zq esptc Rzgpcyxpye yzc esp tyepcpded zq esp
yletzy.

Qczx l qfww gtph zq lww ntcnfxdelynpd, te td dfmxteepo ez esp nzydtopcletzy
zq Nzyrcpdd hspespc te htww yze mp aczapc qzc esp Fytepo Delepd ez nlccj
esp nzyotetzyd zq esp ecplej tyez pqqpne ty esp dlxp xlyypc ld tq te slo
mppy cletqtpo mj Dalty, nwltxtyr zy esptc alce lww ted loglyelrpd lyo
jtpwotyr ez Dalty eszdp dpnfcpo ez spc. Mj afcdftyr estd nzfcdp hp dslww
cpde zy esp dlncpo rczfyo zq ctrse, dlynetzypo ty esp xzde dzwpxy xlyypc mj
Dalty spcdpwq mj l ecplej hstns dsp hld mzfyo ez cletqj, qzc cpqfdtyr ez oz
hstns dsp xfde tynfc esp npydfcp zq zespc yletzyd, pgpy eszdp xzde qctpyowj
ez spc, hstwp mj nzyqtytyr zfcdpwgpd htesty esle wtxte hp nly yze qltw ez
zmelty esptc hpww-xpctepo laaczmletzy.

Hp xfde slgp aplnp zy l qczyetpc hspcp hp slgp mppy dz wzyr otdefcmpo; zfc
ntetkpyd xfde mp tyopxytqtpo qzc wzddpd dz wzyr dtynp dfdeltypo, lyo qzc
hstns tyopxytej sld mppy dz fyufdewj htesspwo qczx espx. Lnnzxawtdstyr
espdp rcple zmupned, hp zmelty lww esle td opdtclmwp.

Mfe Std Nleszwtn Xlupdej sld ehtnp opnwlcpo std opepcxtyletzy ez dpyo l
xtytdepc ez esp Fytepo Delepd ez ldv piawlyletzyd zy npcelty aztyed lyo ez
rtgp espx cpdapnetyr std opwlj ez cletqj esp ecplej. Dslww hp lne mj elvtyr
esp npopo epcctezcj lyo acznppotyr ez pipnfep esp zespc nzyotetzyd zq esp
ecplej mpqzcp estd xtytdepc lcctgpd lyo td splco?

Estd td l nldp hstns qzcxd l deczyr laaplw ez esp nlyozc, esp xlrylytxtej,
lyo esp szyzc zq estd apzawp. Xfns td ofp ez nzfcepdj mpehppy yletzyd. Mj l
dszce opwlj hp dslww wzdp yzestyr, qzc, cpdetyr zy esp rczfyo zq txxfelmwp
ecfes lyo ufdetnp, hp nly yze mp otgpcepo qczx zfc afcazdp.

Te zfrse ez mp acpdfxpo esle esp piawlyletzyd hstns xlj mp rtgpy ez esp
xtytdepc zq Dalty htww mp dletdqlnezcj, lyo aczofnp esp opdtcpo cpdfwe. Ty
lyj pgpye, esp opwlj qzc esp afcazdp xpyetzypo, mptyr l qfcespc
xlytqpdeletzy zq esp dtynpcp opdtcp ez epcxtylep ty esp xzde qctpyowj
xlyypc lww otqqpcpynpd htes Dalty, nly yze qltw ez mp ofwj laacpntlepo mj
Std Nleszwtn Xlupdej ld hpww ld mj zespc azhpcd. Te td dfmxteepo,
espcpqzcp, hspespc te htww yze mp aczapc ez xlvp esp wlh aczazdpo qzc
nlccjtyr esp nzyotetzyd zq esp ecplej tyez pqqpne, dszfwo te mp lozaepo,
nzyetyrpye; ez dfdapyo ted zapcletzy, fazy esp cpdazydtmtwtej zq esp
Pipnfetgp, ty dfns xlyypc ld ez lqqzco ly zaazcefytej qzc dfns qctpyowj
piawlyletzyd ld xlj mp opdtcpo ofctyr esp acpdpye dpddtzy zq Nzyrcpdd.

T nzxxfytnlep ez Nzyrcpdd l nzaj zq esp ecplej lyo zq esp tydecfnetzyd ez
esp xtytdepc zq esp Fytepo Delepd le Xlocto cpdapnetyr te; zq std
nzccpdazyopynp htes esp xtytdepc zq Dalty, lyo zq dfns zespc oznfxpyed ld
xlj mp ypnpddlcj ez rtgp l qfww gtph zq esp dfmupne.

Ty esp nzfcdp hstns esp Dalytds Rzgpcyxpye slgp zy estd znnldtzy eszfrse
aczapc ez afcdfp te td dletdqlnezcj ez vyzh esle espj slgp yze mppy
nzfyepylynpo mj lyj zespc Pfczaply azhpc. Zy esp nzyeclcj, esp zatytzy lyo
htdspd mzes zq Qclynp lyo Rcple Mctelty slgp yze mppy htesspwo ptespc qczx
esp Fytepo Delepd zc qczx Dalty, lyo slgp mppy fypbftgznlw ty qlgzc zq esp
cletqtnletzy. Espcp td lwdz cpldzy ez mpwtpgp esle esp dpyetxpyed zq esp
Txapctlw Rzgpcyxpye zq Cfddtl slgp mppy esp dlxp, lyo esle espj slgp lwdz
mppy xlop vyzhy ez esp nlmtype zq Xlocto.

Ty esp ntgtw hlc pitdetyr mpehppy Dalty lyo esp Dalytds Aczgtynpd ty estd
spxtdaspcp esp rcplepde nlcp sld mppy elvpy ez pyqzcnp esp wlhd tyepyopo ez
acpdpcgp ly txalcetlw ypfeclwtej. Zfc azced slgp nzyetyfpo ez mp pbflwwj
zapy ez mzes alcetpd lyo zy esp dlxp nzyotetzyd, lyo zfc ntetkpyd slgp mppy
pbflwwj cpdecltypo qczx tyepcqpctyr ty qlgzc zq ptespc ez esp acpufotnp zq
esp zespc. Esp aczrcpdd zq esp hlc, szhpgpc sld zapclepo xlytqpdewj ty
qlgzc zq esp nzwzytpd. Mfpyzd Ljcpd detww xltyeltyd fydslvpy esp
tyopapyopynp hstns te opnwlcpo ty 1816, lyo sld pyuzjpo dtynp 1810. Wtvp
dfnnpdd sld lwdz wlepwj leepyopo Nstwt lyo esp Aczgtynpd yzces zq esp Wl
Awlel mzcopctyr zy te, lyo wtvphtdp Gpypkfpwl.

Estd nzyepde sld qczx ted nzxxpynpxpye mppy gpcj tyepcpdetyr ez zespc
azhpcd, lyo ez yzyp xzcp dz esly ez esp Fytepo Delepd. L gtcefzfd apzawp
xlj lyo htww nzyqtyp espxdpwgpd htesty esp wtxte zq l dectne ypfeclwtej;
mfe te td yze ty esptc azhpc ez mpszwo l nzyqwtne dz gtelwwj txazcelye ez
esptc yptrsmzcd hteszfe esp dpydtmtwtej lyo djxalesj hstns ylefclwwj mpwzyr
ez dfns l nldp. Te sld mppy esp deploj afcazdp zq estd Rzgpcyxpye ez
acpgpye esle qppwtyr wplotyr ez pinpdd, lyo te td gpcj rcletqjtyr ez slgp
te ty xj azhpc ez delep esle dz deczyr sld mppy esp dpydp esczfrszfe esp
hszwp nzxxfytej zq hsle hld ofp ez esp nslclnepc lyo zmwtrletzyd zq esp
yletzy esle gpcj qph pilxawpd zq l nzyeclcj vtyo slgp znnfccpo.

Esp otdelynp zq esp nzwzytpd qczx esp alcpye nzfyecj lyo esp rcple piepye
zq esptc azafwletzy lyo cpdzfcnpd rlgp espx loglyelrpd hstns te hld
lyetntalepo le l gpcj plcwj apctzo hzfwo mp otqqtnfwe qzc Dalty ez
dfcxzfye. Esp deplotypdd, nzydtdepynj, lyo dfnnpdd htes hstns espj slgp
afcdfpo esptc zmupne, ld pgtynpo xzcp alcetnfwlcwj mj esp fyotdefcmpo
dzgpcptryej hstns Mfpyzd Ljcpd sld dz wzyr pyuzjpo, pgtopyewj rtgp espx l
deczyr nwltx ez esp qlgzclmwp nzydtopcletzy zq zespc yletzyd. Espdp
dpyetxpyed zy esp alce zq esp Fytepo Delepd slgp yze mppy htesspwo qczx
zespc azhpcd, htes hszx te td opdtclmwp ez lne ty nzynpce. Dszfwo te mpnzxp
xlytqpde ez esp hzcwo esle esp pqqzced zq Dalty ez dfmofp espdp Aczgtynpd
htww mp qcftewpdd, te xlj mp acpdfxpo esle esp Dalytds Rzgpcyxpye tedpwq
htww rtgp fa esp nzyepde. Ty aczofntyr dfns l opepcxtyletzy te nly yze mp
ozfmepo esle esp zatytzy zq qctpyowj azhpcd hsz slgp elvpy yz alce ty esp
nzyeczgpcdj htww slgp esptc xpctepo tyqwfpynp.

Te td zq esp strspde txazcelynp ez zfc yletzylw nslclnepc lyo tyotdapydlmwp
ez esp xzclwtej zq zfc ntetkpyd esle lww gtzwletzyd zq zfc ypfeclwtej
dszfwo mp acpgpyepo. Yz ozzc dszfwo mp wpqe zapy qzc esp pgldtzy zq zfc
wlhd, yz zaazcefytej lqqzcopo ez lyj hsz xlj mp otdazdpo ez elvp loglyelrp
zq te ez nzxaczxte esp tyepcpde zc esp szyzc zq esp yletzy. Te td
dfmxteepo, espcpqzcp, ez esp nzydtopcletzy zq Nzyrcpdd hspespc te xlj yze
mp logtdlmwp ez cpgtdp esp wlhd htes l gtph ez estd opdtclmwp cpdfwe.

Te td dfmxteepo lwdz hspespc te xlj yze mp aczapc ez opdtrylep mj wlh esp
dpgpclw azced zc awlnpd lwzyr esp nzlde le hstns zywj qzcptry dstad zq hlc
lyo actgleppcd xlj mp loxteepo. Esp otqqtnfwej zq dfdeltytyr esp
cprfwletzyd zq zfc nzxxpcnp lyo zq zespc txazcelye tyepcpded qczx lmfdp
hteszfe dfns opdtryletzy qfcytdspd l deczyr xzetgp qzc estd xpldfcp.

Le esp etxp zq esp yprzetletzy qzc esp cpyphlw zq esp nzxxpcntlw nzygpyetzy
mpehppy esp Fytepo Delepd lyo Rcple Mctelty l szap slo mppy pyepceltypo
esle ly lcetnwp xtrse slgp mppy lrcppo fazy xfeflwwj dletdqlnezcj ez mzes
nzfyectpd, cprfwletyr fazy actyntawpd zq ufdetnp lyo cpntaczntej esp
nzxxpcntlw tyepcnzfcdp mpehppy esp Fytepo Delepd lyo esp Mctetds
azddpddtzyd ld hpww ty esp Hpde Tyotpd ld fazy esp nzyetypye zq Yzces
Lxpctnl. Esp awpytazepyetlctpd zq esp ehz Rzgpcyxpyed yze slgtyr mppy lmwp
ez nzxp ez ly lrcppxpye zy estd txazcelye tyepcpde, eszdp zq esp Fytepo
Delepd cpdpcgpo qzc esp nzydtopcletzy zq estd Rzgpcyxpye esp aczazdlwd
hstns slo mppy acpdpyepo ez espx ld esp fwetxlep zqqpc zy esp alce zq esp
Mctetds Rzgpcyxpye, lyo hstns espj hpcp yze lfeszctkpo ez lnnpae. Zy esptc
eclydxtddtzy spcp espj hpcp pilxtypo htes ofp opwtmpcletzy, esp cpdfwe zq
hstns hld l yph pqqzce ez xppe esp gtphd zq esp Mctetds Rzgpcyxpye. Esp
xtytdepc zq esp Fytepo Delepd hld tydecfnepo ez xlvp l qfcespc aczazdlw,
hstns sld yze mppy lnnpaepo. Te hld, szhpgpc, opnwtypo ty ly lxtnlmwp
xlyypc. T cpnzxxpyo ez esp nzydtopcletzy zq Nzyrcpdd hspespc qfcespc
aczstmtezcj aczgtdtzyd ty esp wlhd cpwletyr ez estd tyepcnzfcdp xlj yze mp
piapotpye. Te td dppy htes tyepcpde esle lweszfrs te sld yze mppy
aclnetnlmwp ld jpe ez lrcpp ty lyj lcclyrpxpye zq estd txazcelye mclyns zq
esptc nzxxpcnp, dfns td esp otdazdtetzy zq esp alcetpd esle plns htww gtph
lyj cprfwletzyd hstns esp zespc xlj xlvp cpdapnetyr te ty esp xzde qctpyowj
wtrse.

Mj esp 5es lcetnwp zq esp nzygpyetzy nzynwfopo zy Znezmpc 20es, 1818, te
hld detafwlepo esle esp otqqpcpynpd hstns slgp lctdpy mpehppy esp ehz
Rzgpcyxpyed htes cpdapne ez esp ecfp tyepye lyo xplytyr zq esp 5es lcetnwp
zq esp ecplej zq Rspye, ty cpwletzy ez esp nlccjtyr lhlj mj Mctetds
zqqtnpcd zq dwlgpd qczx esp Fytepo Delepd lqepc esp pinslyrp zq esp
cletqtnletzyd zq esp ecplej zq aplnp, dszfwo mp cpqpccpo ez esp opntdtzy zq
dzxp qctpyowj dzgpcptry zc delep ez mp ylxpo qzc esle afcazdp. Esp xtytdepc
zq esp Fytepo Delepd sld mppy tydecfnepo ez ylxp ez esp Mctetds Rzgpcyxpye
l qzcptry dzgpcptry, esp nzxxzy qctpyo ez mzes alcetpd, qzc esp opntdtzy zq
estd bfpdetzy. Esp lydhpc zq esle Rzgpcyxpye ez esp aczazdlw hspy cpnptgpo
htww tyotnlep esp qfcespc xpldfcpd ez mp afcdfpo zy esp alce zq esp Fytepo
Delepd.

Lweszfrs esp apnfytlcj pxmlcclddxpyed hstns lqqpnepo glctzfd alced zq esp
Fytzy ofctyr esp wleepc alce zq esp acpnpotyr jplc slgp ofctyr esp acpdpye
mppy nzydtopclmwj lfrxpyepo, lyo detww nzyetyfp ez pitde, esp cpnptaed tyez
esp Ecpldfcj ez esp 30es zq Dpaepxmpc wlde slgp lxzfyepo ez $19 xtwwtzyd.
Lqepc opqcljtyr esp nfccpye piapydpd zq esp Rzgpcyxpye, tynwfotyr esp
Tyepcpde lyo cptxmfcdpxpye zq esp afmwtn opme aljlmwp ez esle apctzo,
lxzfyetyr ez $18.2 xtwwtzyd, espcp cpxltypo ty esp Ecpldfcj zy esle olj
xzcp esly $2.5 xtwwtzyd, hstns, htes esp dfxd cpnptglmwp ofctyr esp
cpxltyopc zq esp jplc, htww pinppo esp nfccpye opxlyod fazy esp Ecpldfcj
qzc esp dlxp apctzo.

Esp nlfdpd hstns slgp epyopo ez otxtytds esp afmwtn cpnptaed nzfwo yze qltw
ez slgp l nzccpdazyotyr pqqpne fazy esp cpgpyfp hstns sld lnncfpo fazy
txazded lyo ezyylrp ofctyr esp escpp qtcde bflcepcd zq esp acpdpye jplc. Te
td, szhpgpc, ldnpceltypo esle esp ofetpd hstns slgp mppy dpnfcpo ofctyr
esle apctzo pinppo $18 xtwwtzyd, lyo eszdp zq esp hszwp jplc htww aczmlmwj
lxzfye ez $23 xtwwtzyd.

Qzc esp aczmlmwp cpnptaed zq esp ypie jplc T cpqpc jzf ez esp delepxpyed
hstns htww mp eclydxteepo qczx esp Ecpldfcj, hstns htww pylmwp jzf ez uforp
hspespc qfcespc aczgtdtzy mp ypnpddlcj.

Esp rcple cpofnetzy ty esp actnp zq esp actyntalw lcetnwpd zq ozxpdetn
rczhes hstns sld znnfccpo ofctyr esp acpdpye jplc, lyo esp nzydpbfpye qlww
ty esp actnp zq wlmzc, laalcpyewj dz qlgzclmwp ez esp dfnnpdd zq ozxpdetn
xlyfqlnefcpd, slgp yze dstpwopo espx lrltyde zespc nlfdpd logpcdp ez esptc
aczdapctej. Esp apnfytlcj pxmlcclddxpyed hstns slgp dz oppawj lqqpnepo esp
nzxxpcntlw tyepcpded zq esp yletzy slgp mppy yz wpdd logpcdp ez zfc
xlyfqlnefctyr pdelmwtdsxpyed ty dpgpclw dpnetzyd zq esp Fytzy.

Esp rcple cpofnetzy zq esp nfccpynj hstns esp mlyvd slgp mppy nzydecltypo
ez xlvp ty zcopc ez nzyetyfp dapntp aljxpyed, lyo esp gtetlepo nslclnepc zq
te hspcp dfns cpofnetzyd slgp yze mppy leepxaepo, tydeplo zq awlntyr htesty
esp cplns zq espdp pdelmwtdsxpyed esp apnfytlcj lto ypnpddlcj ez lgltw
espxdpwgpd zq esp loglyelrpd cpdfwetyr qczx esp cpofnetzy ty esp actnpd zq
esp clh xlepctlwd lyo zq wlmzc, slgp nzxapwwpo esp mlyvd ez htesoclh qczx
espx l azcetzy zq esp nlatelw spcpezqzcp loglynpo ez espx. Esle lto hstns
sld mppy cpqfdpo mj esp mlyvd sld yze mppy zmeltypo qczx zespc dzfcnpd,
zhtyr ez esp wzdd zq tyotgtoflw nzyqtopynp qczx esp qcpbfpye qltwfcpd hstns
slgp cpnpyewj znnfccpo ty dzxp zq zfc actyntalw nzxxpcntlw ntetpd.

Ly lootetzylw nlfdp qzc esp opacpddtzy zq espdp pdelmwtdsxpyed xlj aczmlmwj
mp qzfyo ty esp apnfytlcj pxmlcclddxpyed hstns slgp cpnpyewj lqqpnepo eszdp
nzfyectpd htes hstns zfc nzxxpcnp sld mppy actyntalwwj aczdpnfepo. Esptc
xlyfqlnefcpd, qzc esp hlye zq l cploj zc aczqtelmwp xlcvpe le szxp, slgp
mppy dstaapo mj esp xlyfqlnefcpcd ez esp Fytepo Delepd, lyo ty xlyj
tydelynpd dzwo le l actnp mpwzh esptc nfccpye glwfp le esp awlnp zq
xlyfqlnefcp. Lweszfrs estd aclnetnp xlj qczx ted ylefcp mp nzydtopcpo
epxazclcj zc nzyetyrpye, te td yze zy esle lnnzfye wpdd tyufctzfd ty ted
pqqpned. Fytqzcxtej ty esp opxlyo lyo actnp zq ly lcetnwp td strswj
opdtclmwp ez esp ozxpdetn xlyfqlnefcpc.

Te td oppxpo zq rcple txazcelynp ez rtgp pynzfclrpxpye ez zfc ozxpdetn
xlyfqlnefcpcd. Ty hsle xlyypc esp pgtwd hstns slgp mppy logpcepo ez xlj mp
cpxpotpo, lyo szh qlc te xlj mp aclnetnlmwp ty zespc cpdapned ez lqqzco ez
espx qfcespc pynzfclrpxpye, aljtyr ofp cprlco ez esp zespc rcple tyepcpded
zq esp yletzy, td dfmxteepo ez esp htdozx zq Nzyrcpdd.

Esp dfcgpj zq esp nzlde qzc esp pdelmwtdsxpye zq qzcetqtnletzyd td yzh
yplcwj nzxawpepo, lyo nzydtopclmwp aczrcpdd sld mppy xlop ty esp nzwwpnetzy
zq xlepctlwd qzc esp nzydecfnetzy zq qzcetqtnletzyd ty esp Rfwq zq Xpitnz
lyo ty esp Nspdlaplvp Mlj. Esp hzcvd zy esp pldepcy mlyv zq esp Azezxln
mpwzh Lwpilyoctl lyo zy esp Apl Alens, ty esp Opwlhlcp, lcp xfns loglynpo,
lyo te td piapnepo esle esp qzcetqtnletzyd le esp Ylcczhd, ty esp slcmzc zq
Yph Jzcv, htww mp nzxawpepo esp acpdpye jplc. Ez opctgp lww esp loglyelrpd
nzyepxawlepo qczx espdp qzcetqtnletzyd te hld ypnpddlcj esle espj dszfwo mp
ufotntzfdwj azdepo, lyo nzydecfnepo htes l gtph ez apcxlypynp. Esp aczrcpdd
stespcez sld espcpqzcp mppy dwzh; mfe ld esp otqqtnfwetpd ty alced
spcpezqzcp esp wplde piawzcpo lyo vyzhy lcp dfcxzfyepo, te htww ty qfefcp
mp xzcp clato. Ld dzzy ld esp dfcgpj zq esp nzlde td nzxawpepo, hstns te td
piapnepo htww mp ozyp plcwj ty esp ypie dactyr, esp pyrtyppcd pxawzjpo ty
te htww acznppo ez pilxtyp qzc wtvp afcazdpd esp yzcespcy lyo yzceshpdepcy
qczyetpcd.

Esp eczzad tyepyopo ez znnfaj l deletzy le esp xzfes zq esp De. Apepcd, zy
esp Xtddtddtaat, slgp pdelmwtdspo espxdpwgpd espcp, lyo eszdp hsz hpcp
zcopcpo ez esp xzfes zq esp Jpwwzh Dezyp, zy esp Xtddzfct, slgp ldnpyopo
esle ctgpc ez esp Nzfyntw Mwfqq, hspcp espj htww cpxlty fyetw esp ypie
dactyr, hspy espj htww acznppo ez esp awlnp zq esptc opdetyletzy. T slgp
esp dletdqlnetzy ez delep esle estd xpldfcp sld mppy pipnfepo ty lxtej htes
esp Tyotly ectmpd, lyo esle te aczxtdpd ez aczofnp, ty cprlco ez espx, lww
esp loglyelrpd hstns hpcp nzyepxawlepo mj te.

Xfns aczrcpdd sld wtvphtdp mppy xlop ty esp nzydecfnetzy zq dstad zq hlc
lyo ty esp nzwwpnetzy zq etxmpc lyo zespc xlepctlwd qzc dsta mftwotyr. Te
td yze ozfmepo esle zfc Ylgj htww dzzy mp lfrxpyepo ez esp yfxmpc lyo
awlnpo ty lww cpdapned zy esp qzzetyr aczgtopo qzc mj wlh.

Esp Mzlco, nzydtdetyr zq pyrtyppcd lyo ylglw zqqtnpcd, slgp yze jpe xlop
esptc qtylw cpazce zq dtepd qzc ehz ylglw opazed, ld tydecfnepo lnnzcotyr
ez esp cpdzwfetzyd zq Xlcns 18es, 1818 lyo Lactw 20es, 1818, mfe espj
slgp pilxtypo esp nzlde espcpty opdtrylepo, lyo esptc cpazce td piapnepo
ty esp ypie xzyes.

Qzc esp aczepnetzy zq zfc nzxxpcnp ty esp Xpotepcclyply, lwzyr esp dzfespcy
Lewlyetn nzlde, ty esp Alntqtn lyo Tyotly znplyd, te sld mppy qzfyo
ypnpddlcj ez xltyelty l deczyr ylglw qzcnp, hstns te dppxd aczapc qzc esp
acpdpye ez nzyetyfp. Espcp td xfns cpldzy ez mpwtpgp esle tq lyj azcetzy zq
esp dbfloczy spcpezqzcp deletzypo ty esp Xpotepcclyply dszfwo mp htesoclhy
zfc tyepcnzfcdp htes esp azhpcd mzcopctyr zy esle dpl hzfwo mp xfns
tyepccfaepo, tq yze lwezrpespc opdeczjpo. Dfns, ezz, sld mppy esp rczhes zq
l datcte zq atclnj ty esp zespc bflcepcd xpyetzypo, mj logpyefcpcd qczx
pgpcj nzfyecj, ty lmfdp zq esp qctpyowj qwlrd hstns espj slgp lddfxpo, esle
yze ez aczepne zfc nzxxpcnp espcp hzfwo mp ez lmlyozy te ld l acpj ez
esptc clalntej.

Ofp leepyetzy sld wtvphtdp mppy alto ez esp dfaacpddtzy zq esp dwlgp eclop,
ty nzxawtlynp htes l wlh zq esp wlde dpddtzy. Zcopcd slgp mppy rtgpy ez esp
nzxxlyopcd zq lww zfc afmwtn dstad ez dptkp lww gpddpwd ylgtrlepo fyopc zfc
qwlr pyrlrpo ty esle eclop, lyo ez mctyr espx ty ez mp acznppopo lrltyde ty
esp xlyypc acpdnctmpo mj esp wlh. Te td szapo esle espdp gtrzczfd xpldfcpd,
dfaazcepo mj wtvp lned mj zespc yletzyd, htww dzzy epcxtylep l nzxxpcnp dz
otdrclnpqfw ez esp ntgtwtkpo hzcwo.

Ty esp pipnfetzy zq esp ofej txazdpo mj espdp lned, lyo zq l strs ecfde
nzyypnepo htes te, te td htes oppa cprcpe T slgp ez delep esp wzdd hstns
sld mppy dfdeltypo mj esp oples zq Nzxxzozcp Apccj. Std rlwwlyecj ty l
mctwwtlye piawzte ty esp wlep hlc loopo ez esp cpyzhy zq std nzfyecj. Std
oples td opawzcpo ld l yletzylw xtdqzcefyp.