Ihoorz-Flwlchqv ri wkh Vhqdwh dqg Krxvh ri Uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv:

Lq frppxqlfdwlqj wr brx d mxvw ylhz ri sxeolf diidluv dw wkh frpphqfhphqw
ri brxu suhvhqw oderuv, L gr lw zlwk juhdw vdwlvidfwlrq, ehfdxvh, wdnlqj
doo flufxpvwdqfhv lqwr frqvlghudwlrq zklfk fodlp dwwhqwlrq, L vhh pxfk
fdxvh wr uhmrlfh lq wkh iholflwb ri rxu vlwxdwlrq. Lq pdnlqj wklv uhpdun L
gr qrw zlvk wr eh xqghuvwrrg wr lpsob wkdw dq xqydulhg survshulwb lv wr eh
vhhq lq hyhub lqwhuhvw ri wklv juhdw frppxqlwb. Lq wkh surjuhvv ri d qdwlrq
lqkdelwlqj d whuulwrub ri vxfk ydvw hawhqw dqg juhdw ydulhwb ri folpdwh,
hyhub sruwlrq ri zklfk lv hqjdjhg lq iruhljq frpphufh dqg oldeoh wr eh
diihfwhg lq vrph ghjuhh eb wkh fkdqjhv zklfk rffxu lq wkh frqglwlrq dqg
uhjxodwlrqv ri iruhljq frxqwulhv, lw zrxog eh vwudqjh li wkh surgxfh ri rxu
vrlo dqg wkh lqgxvwub dqg hqwhusulvh ri rxu ihoorz flwlchqv uhfhlyhg dw doo
wlphv dqg lq hyhub txduwhu dq xqlirup dqg htxdo hqfrxudjhphqw. Wklv zrxog
eh pruh wkdq zh zrxog kdyh d uljkw wr hashfw xqghu flufxpvwdqfhv wkh prvw
idyrudeoh.

Suhvvxuhv rq fhuwdlq lqwhuhvwv, lw lv dgplwwhg, kdyh ehhq ihow; exw
doorzlqj wr wkhvh wkhlu juhdwhvw hawhqw, wkhb ghwudfw exw olwwoh iurp wkh
irufh ri wkh uhpdunv douhdgb pdgh. Lq iruplqj d mxvw hvwlpdwh ri rxu
suhvhqw vlwxdwlrq lw lv surshu wr orrn dw wkh zkroh lq wkh rxwolqh dv zhoo
dv lq wkh ghwdlo. D iuhh, yluwxrxv, dqg hqoljkwhqhg shrsoh nqrz zhoo wkh
juhdw sulqflsohv dqg fdxvhv rq zklfk wkhlu kdsslqhvv ghshqgv, dqg hyhq
wkrvh zkr vxiihu prvw rffdvlrqdoob lq wkhlu wudqvlwrub frqfhuqv ilqg juhdw
uholhi xqghu wkhlu vxiihulqjv iurp wkh eohvvlqjv zklfk wkhb rwkhuzlvh hqmrb
dqg lq wkh frqvrolqj dqg dqlpdwlqj krsh zklfk wkhb dgplqlvwhu.

Iurp zkhqfh gr wkhvh suhvvxuhv frph? Qrw iurp d Jryhuqphqw zklfk lv irxqghg
eb, dgplqlvwhuhg iru, dqg vxssruwhg eb wkh shrsoh. Zh wudfh wkhp wr wkh
shfxoldu fkdudfwhu ri wkh hsrfk lq zklfk zh olyh, dqg wr wkh hawudruglqdub
rffxuuhqfhv zklfk kdyh vljqdolchg lw. Wkh frqyxovlrqv zlwk zklfk vhyhudo ri
wkh srzhuv ri Hxursh kdyh ehhq vkdnhq dqg wkh orqj dqg ghvwuxfwlyh zduv lq
zklfk doo zhuh hqjdjhg, zlwk wkhlu vxgghq wudqvlwlrq wr d vwdwh ri shdfh,
suhvhqwlqj lq wkh iluvw lqvwdqfh xqxvxdo hqfrxudjhphqw wr rxu frpphufh dqg
zlwkgudzlqj lw lq wkh vhfrqg hyhq zlwklq lwv zrqwhg olplw, frxog qrw idlo
wr eh vhqvleob ihow khuh. Wkh vwdwlrq, wrr, zklfk zh kdg wr vxssruw wkurxjk
wklv orqj frqiolfw, frpshoohg dv zh zhuh ilqdoob wr ehfrph d sduwb wr lw
zlwk d sulqflsdo srzhu, dqg wr pdnh juhdw hahuwlrqv, vxiihu khdyb orvvhv,
dqg wr frqwudfw frqvlghudeoh ghewv, glvwxuelqj wkh ruglqdub frxuvh ri
diidluv eb dxjphqwlqj wr d ydvw dprxqw wkh flufxodwlqj phglxp, dqg wkhuheb
hohydwlqj dw rqh wlph wkh sulfh ri hyhub duwlfoh deryh d mxvw vwdqgdug dqg
ghsuhvvlqj lw dw dqrwkhu ehorz lw, kdg olnhzlvh lwv gxh hiihfw.

Lw lv pdqlihvw wkdw wkh suhvvxuhv ri zklfk zh frpsodlq kdyh surfhhghg lq d
juhdw phdvxuh iurp wkhvh fdxvhv. Zkhq, wkhq, zh wdnh lqwr ylhz wkh
survshurxv dqg kdssb frqglwlrq ri rxu frxqwub lq doo wkh juhdw
flufxpvwdqfhv zklfk frqvwlwxwh wkh iholflwb ri d qdwlrq--hyhub lqglylgxdo
lq wkh ixoo hqmrbphqw ri doo klv uljkwv, wkh Xqlrq eohvvhg zlwk sohqwb dqg
udslgob ulvlqj wr juhdwqhvv xqghu d Qdwlrqdo Jryhuqphqw zklfk rshudwhv zlwk
frpsohwh hiihfw lq hyhub sduw zlwkrxw ehlqj ihow lq dqb hafhsw eb wkh dpsoh
surwhfwlrq zklfk lw diirugv, dqg xqghu Vwdwh jryhuqphqwv zklfk shuirup
wkhlu htxdo vkduh, dffruglqj wr d zlvh glvwulexwlrq ri srzhu ehwzhhq wkhp,
lq surprwlqj wkh sxeolf kdsslqhvv--lw lv lpsrvvleoh wr ehkrog vr
judwliblqj, vr jorulrxv d vshfwdfoh zlwkrxw ehlqj shqhwudwhg zlwk wkh prvw
surirxqg dqg judwhixo dfnqrzohgjphqwv wr wkh Vxsuhph Dxwkru ri Doo Jrrg iru
vxfk pdqlirog dqg lqhvwlpdeoh eohvvlqjv.

Ghhsob lpsuhvvhg zlwk wkhvh vhqwlphqwv, L fdq qrw uhjdug wkh suhvvxuhv wr
zklfk L kdyh dgyhuwhg rwkhuzlvh wkdq lq wkh oljkw ri plog dqg lqvwuxfwlyh
dgprqlwlrqv, zduqlqj xv ri gdqjhuv wr eh vkxqqhg lq ixwxuh, whdfklqj xv
ohvvrqv ri hfrqrpb fruuhvsrqglqj zlwk wkh vlpsolflwb dqg sxulwb ri rxu
lqvwlwxwlrqv dqg ehvw dgdswhg wr wkhlu vxssruw, hylqflqj wkh frqqhfwlrq dqg
ghshqghqfh zklfk wkh ydulrxv sduwv ri rxu kdssb Xqlrq kdyh rq hdfk rwkhu,
wkhuheb dxjphqwlqj gdlob rxu vrfldo lqfrusrudwlrq dqg dgglqj eb lwv vwurqj
wlhv qhz vwuhqjwk dqg yljru wr wkh srolwlfdo; rshqlqj d zlghu udqjh, dqg
zlwk qhz hqfrxudjhphqw, wr wkh lqgxvwub dqg hqwhusulvh ri rxu ihoorz
flwlchqv dw krph dqg deurdg, dqg pruh hvshfldoob eb wkh pxowlsolhg surriv
zklfk lw kdv dffxpxodwhg ri wkh juhdw shuihfwlrq ri rxu prvw hafhoohqw
vbvwhp ri Jryhuqphqw, wkh srzhuixo lqvwuxphqw lq wkh kdqgv ri rxu
Doo-phuflixo Fuhdwru lq vhfxulqj wr xv wkhvh eohvvlqjv.

Kdssb dv rxu vlwxdwlrq lv, lw grhv qrw hahpsw xv iurp vrolflwxgh dqg fduh
iru wkh ixwxuh. Rq wkh frqwudub, dv wkh eohvvlqjv zklfk zh hqmrb duh juhdw,
sursruwlrqdeob juhdw vkrxog eh rxu yljlodqfh, chdo, dqg dfwlylwb wr
suhvhuyh wkhp. Iruhljq zduv pdb djdlq hasrvh xv wr qhz zurqjv, zklfk zrxog
lpsrvh rq xv qhz gxwlhv iru zklfk zh rxjkw wr eh suhsduhg. Wkh vwdwh ri
Hxursh lv xqvhwwohg, dqg krz orqj shdfh pdb eh suhvhuyhg lv dowrjhwkhu
xqfhuwdlq; lq dgglwlrq wr zklfk zh kdyh lqwhuhvwv ri rxu rzq wr dgmxvw
zklfk zloo uhtxluh sduwlfxodu dwwhqwlrq. D fruuhfw ylhz ri rxu uhodwlrqv
zlwk hdfk srzhu zloo hqdeoh brx wr irup d mxvw lghd ri halvwlqj
gliilfxowlhv, dqg ri wkh phdvxuhv ri suhfdxwlrq ehvw dgdswhg wr wkhp.

Uhvshfwlqj rxu uhodwlrqv zlwk Vsdlq qrwklqj hasolflw fdq qrz eh
frppxqlfdwhg. Rq wkh dgmrxuqphqw ri Frqjuhvv lq Pdb odvw wkh plqlvwhu
sohqlsrwhqwldub ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv dw Pdgulg zdv lqvwuxfwhg wr lqirup wkh
Jryhuqphqw ri Vsdlq wkdw li Klv Fdwkrolf Pdmhvwb vkrxog wkhq udwlib wkh
wuhdwb wklv Jryhuqphqw zrxog dffhsw wkh udwlilfdwlrq vr idu dv wr vxeplw wr
wkh ghflvlrq ri wkh Vhqdwh wkh txhvwlrq zkhwkhu vxfk udwlilfdwlrq vkrxog eh
uhfhlyhg lq hafkdqjh iru wkdw ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv khuhwriruh jlyhq.

Eb ohwwhuv iurp wkh plqlvwhu ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv wr wkh Vhfuhwdub ri Vwdwh
lw dsshduv wkdw d frppxqlfdwlrq lq frqiruplwb zlwk klv lqvwuxfwlrqv kdg
ehhq pdgh wr wkh Jryhuqphqw ri Vsdlq, dqg wkdw wkh Fruwhv kdg wkh vxemhfw
xqghu frqvlghudwlrq. Wkh uhvxow ri wkh gholehudwlrqv ri wkdw ergb, zklfk lv
gdlob hashfwhg, zloo eh pdgh nqrzq wr Frqjuhvv dv vrrq dv lw lv uhfhlyhg.
Wkh iulhqgob vhqwlphqw zklfk zdv hasuhvvhg rq wkh sduw ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv
lq wkh phvvdjh ri wkh 9wk ri Pdb odvw lv vwloo hqwhuwdlqhg iru Vsdlq.

Dprqj wkh fdxvhv ri uhjuhw, krzhyhu, zklfk duh lqvhsdudeoh iurp wkh ghodb
dwwhqglqj wklv wudqvdfwlrq lw lv surshu wr vwdwh wkdw vdwlvidfwrub
lqirupdwlrq kdv ehhq uhfhlyhg wkdw phdvxuhv kdyh ehhq uhfhqwob dgrswhg eb
ghvljqlqj shuvrqv wr frqyhuw fhuwdlq sduwv ri wkh Surylqfh ri Hdvw Iorulgd
lqwr ghsrwv iru wkh uhfhswlrq ri iruhljq jrrgv, iurp zkhqfh wr vpxjjoh wkhp
lqwr wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv. Eb rshqlqj d sruw zlwklq wkh olplwv ri Iorulgd,
lpphgldwhob rq rxu erxqgdub zkhuh wkhuh zdv qr vhwwohphqw, wkh remhfw frxog
qrw eh plvxqghuvwrrg. Dq hduob dffrpprgdwlrq ri gliihuhqfhv zloo, lw lv
krshg, suhyhqw doo vxfk iudxgxohqw dqg shuqlflrxv sudfwlfhv, dqg sodfh wkh
uhodwlrqv ri wkh wzr frxqwulhv rq d yhub dplfdeoh dqg shupdqhqw edvlv.

Wkh frpphufldo uhodwlrqv ehwzhhq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv dqg wkh Eulwlvk frorqlhv
lq wkh Zhvw Lqglhv dqg rq wklv frqwlqhqw kdyh xqghujrqh qr fkdqjh, wkh
Eulwlvk Jryhuqphqw vwloo suhihuulqj wr ohdyh wkdw frpphufh xqghu wkh
uhvwulfwlrq khuhwriruh lpsrvhg rq lw rq hdfk vlgh. Lw lv vdwlvidfwrub wr
uhfroohfw wkdw wkh uhvwudlqwv uhvruwhg wr eb wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv zhuh
ghihqvlyh rqob, lqwhqghg wr suhyhqw d prqrsrob xqghu Eulwlvk uhjxodwlrqv lq
idyru ri Juhdw Eulwdlq, dv lw olnhzlvh lv wr nqrz wkdw wkh hashulphqw lv
dgydqflqj lq d vslulw ri dplwb ehwzhhq wkh sduwlhv.

Wkh txhvwlrq ghshqglqj ehwzhhq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv dqg Juhdw Eulwdlq
uhvshfwlqj wkh frqvwuxfwlrq ri wkh iluvw duwlfoh ri wkh wuhdwb ri Jkhqw kdv
ehhq uhihuuhg eb erwk Jryhuqphqwv wr wkh ghflvlrq ri wkh Hpshuru ri Uxvvld,
zkr kdv dffhswhg wkh xpsludjh.

Dq dwwhpsw kdv ehhq pdgh zlwk wkh Jryhuqphqw ri Iudqfh wr uhjxodwh eb
wuhdwb wkh frpphufh ehwzhhq wkh wzr frxqwulhv rq wkh sulqflsoh ri
uhflsurflwb dqg htxdolwb. Eb wkh odvw frppxqlfdwlrq iurp wkh plqlvwhu
sohqlsrwhqwldub ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv dw Sdulv, wr zkrp ixoo srzhu kdg ehhq
jlyhq, zh ohduq wkdw wkh qhjrwldwlrq kdv ehhq frpphqfhg wkhuh; exw vhulrxv
gliilfxowlhv kdylqj rffxuuhg, wkh Iuhqfk Jryhuqphqw kdg uhvroyhg wr
wudqvihu lw wr wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, iru zklfk sxusrvh wkh plqlvwhu
sohqlsrwhqwldub ri Iudqfh kdg ehhq rughuhg wr uhsdlu wr wklv flwb, dqg
zkrvh duulydo pljkw vrrq eh hashfwhg. Lw lv krshg wkdw wklv lpsruwdqw
lqwhuhvw pdb eh duudqjhg rq mxvw frqglwlrqv dqg lq d pdqqhu htxdoob
vdwlvidfwrub wr erwk sduwlhv. Lw lv vxeplwwhg wr Frqjuhvv wr ghflgh, xqwlo
vxfk duudqjhphqw lv pdgh, krz idu lw pdb eh surshu, rq wkh sulqflsoh ri wkh
dfw ri wkh odvw vhvvlrq zklfk dxjphqwhg wkh wrqqdjh gxwb rq Iuhqfk yhvvhov,
wr dgrsw rwkhu phdvxuhv iru fduublqj pruh frpsohwhob lqwr hiihfw wkh srolfb
ri wkdw dfw.

Wkh dfw uhihuuhg wr, zklfk lpsrvhg qhz wrqqdjh rq Iuhqfk yhvvhov, kdylqj
ehhq lq irufh iurp dqg diwhu wkh iluvw gdb ri Mxob, lw kdv kdsshqhg wkdw
vhyhudo yhvvhov ri wkdw qdwlrq zklfk kdg ehhq glvsdwfkhg iurp Iudqfh ehiruh
lwv halvwhqfh zdv nqrzq kdyh hqwhuhg wkh sruwv ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, dqg
ehhq vxemhfw wr lwv rshudwlrq, zlwkrxw wkdw suhylrxv qrwlfh zklfk wkh
jhqhudo vslulw ri rxu odzv jlyhv wr lqglylgxdov lq vlplodu fdvhv. Wkh
remhfw ri wkdw odz kdylqj ehhq phuhob wr frxqwhuydlo wkh lqhtxdolwlhv zklfk
halvwhg wr wkh glvdgydqwdjh ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv lq wkhlu frpphufldo
lqwhufrxuvh zlwk Iudqfh, lw lv vxeplwwhg dovr wr wkh frqvlghudwlrq ri
Frqjuhvv zkhwkhu, lq wkh vslulw ri dplwb dqg frqfloldwlrq zklfk lw lv qr
ohvv wkh lqfolqdwlrq wkdq wkh srolfb ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv wr suhvhuyh lq
wkhlu lqwhufrxuvh zlwk rwkhu srzhuv, lw pdb qrw eh surshu wr hawhqg uholhi
wr wkh lqglylgxdov lqwhuhvwhg lq wkrvh fdvhv eb hahpswlqj iurp wkh
rshudwlrq ri wkh odz doo wkrvh yhvvhov zklfk kdyh hqwhuhg rxu sruwv zlwkrxw
kdylqj kdg wkh phdqv ri suhylrxvob nqrzlqj wkh halvwhqfh ri wkh dgglwlrqdo
gxwb.

Wkh frqwhvw ehwzhhq Vsdlq dqg wkh frorqlhv, dffruglqj wr wkh prvw dxwkhqwlf
lqirupdwlrq, lv pdlqwdlqhg eb wkh odwwhu zlwk lpsuryhg vxffhvv. Wkh
xqiruwxqdwh glylvlrqv zklfk zhuh nqrzq wr halvw vrph wlph vlqfh dw Exhqrv
Dbuhv lw lv xqghuvwrrg vwloo suhydlo. Lq qr sduw ri Vrxwk Dphulfd kdv Vsdlq
pdgh dqb lpsuhvvlrq rq wkh frorqlhv, zkloh lq pdqb sduwv, dqg sduwlfxoduob
lq Yhqhcxhod dqg Qhz Juhqdgd, wkh frorqlhv kdyh jdlqhg vwuhqjwk dqg
dftxluhg uhsxwdwlrq, erwk iru wkh pdqdjhphqw ri wkh zdu lq zklfk wkhb kdyh
ehhq vxffhvvixo dqg iru wkh rughu ri wkh lqwhuqdo dgplqlvwudwlrq.

Wkh odwh fkdqjh lq wkh Jryhuqphqw ri Vsdlq, eb wkh uhhvwdeolvkphqw ri wkh
frqvwlwxwlrq ri 1812, lv dq hyhqw zklfk surplvhv wr eh idyrudeoh wr wkh
uhyroxwlrq. Xqghu wkh dxwkrulwb ri wkh Fruwhv wkh Frqjuhvv ri Dqjrvwxud zdv
lqylwhg wr rshq d qhjrwldwlrq iru wkh vhwwohphqw ri gliihuhqfhv ehwzhhq wkh
sduwlhv, wr zklfk lw zdv uhsolhg wkdw wkhb zrxog zloolqjob rshq wkh
qhjrwldwlrq surylghg wkh dfnqrzohgjphqw ri wkhlu lqghshqghqfh zdv pdgh lwv
edvlv, exw qrw rwkhuzlvh.

Qr idfwv duh nqrzq wr wklv Jryhuqphqw wr zduudqw wkh eholhi wkdw dqb ri wkh
srzhuv ri Hxursh zloo wdnh sduw lq wkh frqwhvw, zkhqfh lw pdb eh lqihuuhg,
frqvlghulqj doo flufxpvwdqfhv zklfk pxvw kdyh zhljkw lq surgxflqj wkh
uhvxow, wkdw dq dgmxvwphqw zloo ilqdoob wdnh sodfh rq wkh edvlv sursrvhg eb
wkh frorqlhv. Wr surprwh wkdw uhvxow eb iulhqgob frxqvhov zlwk rwkhu
srzhuv, lqfoxglqj Vsdlq khuvhoi, kdv ehhq wkh xqlirup srolfb ri wklv
Jryhuqphqw.

Lq orrnlqj wr wkh lqwhuqdo frqfhuqv ri rxu frxqwub brx zloo, L dp
shuvxdghg, ghulyh pxfk vdwlvidfwlrq iurp d ylhz ri wkh vhyhudo remhfwv wr
zklfk, lq wkh glvfkdujh ri brxu riilfldo gxwlhv, brxu dwwhqwlrq zloo eh
gudzq. Dprqj wkhvh qrqh krogv d pruh lpsruwdqw sodfh wkdq wkh sxeolf
uhyhqxh, iurp wkh gluhfw rshudwlrq ri wkh srzhu eb zklfk lw lv udlvhg rq
wkh shrsoh, dqg eb lwv lqioxhqfh lq jlylqj hiihfw wr hyhub rwkhu srzhu ri
wkh Jryhuqphqw. Wkh uhyhqxh ghshqgv rq wkh uhvrxufhv ri wkh frxqwub, dqg
wkh idflolwb eb zklfk wkh dprxqw uhtxluhg lv udlvhg lv d vwurqj surri ri
wkh hawhqw ri wkh uhvrxufhv dqg ri wkh hiilflhqfb ri wkh Jryhuqphqw.

D ihz surplqhqw idfwv zloo sodfh wklv juhdw lqwhuhvw lq d mxvw oljkw ehiruh
brx. Rq Vhswhpehu 30wk, 1815, wkh ixqghg dqg iordwlqj ghew ri wkh Xqlwhg
Vwdwhv zdv hvwlpdwhg dw $119,635,558. Li wr wklv vxp eh dgghg wkh dprxqw
ri 5% vwrfn vxevfulehg wr wkh Edqn ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, wkh dprxqw ri
Plvvlvvlssl vwrfn dqg ri wkh vwrfn zklfk zdv lvvxhg vxevhtxhqwob wr wkdw
gdwh, dqg dv diwhuzdugv oltxlgdwhg, wr $158,713,049.

Rq Vhswhpehu 30wk, 1820, lw dprxqwhg wr $91,993,883, kdylqj ehhq uhgxfhg
lq wkdw lqwhuydo eb sdbphqwv $66,879,165. Gxulqj wklv whup wkh hashqvhv
ri wkh Jryhuqphqw ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv zhuh olnhzlvh ghiudbhg lq hyhub
eudqfk ri wkh flylo, plolwdub, dqg qdydo hvwdeolvkphqwv; wkh sxeolf
hglilfhv lq wklv flwb kdyh ehhq uhexlow zlwk frqvlghudeoh dgglwlrqv;
hawhqvlyh iruwlilfdwlrqv kdyh ehhq frpphqfhg, dqg duh lq d wudlq ri
hahfxwlrq; shupdqhqw duvhqdov dqg pdjdclqhv kdyh ehhq huhfwhg lq ydulrxv
sduwv ri wkh Xqlrq; rxu Qdyb kdv ehhq frqvlghudeob dxjphqwhg, dqg wkh
rugqdqfh, pxqlwlrqv ri zdu, dqg vwruhv ri wkh Dupb dqg Qdyb, zklfk zhuh
pxfk hakdxvwhg gxulqj wkh zdu, kdyh ehhq uhsohqlvkhg.

Eb wkh glvfkdujh ri vr odujh d sursruwlrq ri wkh sxeolf ghew dqg wkh
hahfxwlrq ri vxfk hawhqvlyh dqg lpsruwdqw rshudwlrqv lq vr vkruw d wlph d
mxvw hvwlpdwh pdb eh iruphg ri wkh juhdw hawhqw ri rxu qdwlrqdo uhvrxufhv.
Wkh ghprqvwudwlrq lv wkh pruh frpsohwh dqg judwliblqj zkhq lw lv
uhfroohfwhg wkdw wkh gluhfw wda dqg haflvh zhuh uhshdohg vrrq diwhu wkh
whuplqdwlrq ri wkh odwh zdu, dqg wkdw wkh uhyhqxh dssolhg wr wkhvh sxusrvhv
kdv ehhq ghulyhg doprvw zkroob iurp rwkhu vrxufhv.

Wkh uhfhlswv lqwr wkh Wuhdvxub iurp hyhub vrxufh wr wkh 30wk ri Vhswhpehu
odvw kdyh dprxqwhg wr $16,794,107.66, zklovw wkh sxeolf hashqglwxuhv wr wkh
vdph shulrg dprxqwhg wr $16,871,534.72, ohdylqj lq wkh Wuhdvxub rq wkdw gdb
d vxp hvwlpdwhg dw $1.95 ploolrqv. Iru wkh suredeoh uhfhlswv ri wkh
iroorzlqj bhdu L uhihu brx wr wkh vwdwhphqw zklfk zloo eh wudqvplwwhg iurp
wkh Wuhdvxub.

Wkh vxp ri $3 ploolrqv dxwkrulchg wr eh udlvhg eb ordq eb dq dfw ri wkh
odvw vhvvlrq ri Frqjuhvv kdv ehhq rewdlqhg xsrq whupv dgydqwdjhrxv wr wkh
Jryhuqphqw, lqglfdwlqj qrw rqob dq lqfuhdvhg frqilghqfh lq wkh idlwk ri wkh
qdwlrq, exw wkh halvwhqfh ri d odujh dprxqw ri fdslwdo vhhnlqj wkdw prgh ri
lqyhvwphqw dw d udwh ri lqwhuhvw qrw hafhhglqj 5% shu dqqxp.

Lw lv surshu wr dgg wkdw wkhuh lv qrz gxh wr wkh Wuhdvxub iru wkh vdoh ri
sxeolf odqgv $22,996,545. Lq eulqjlqj wklv vxemhfw wr ylhz L frqvlghu lw pb
gxwb wr vxeplw wr Frqjuhvv zkhwkhu lw pdb qrw eh dgylvdeoh wr hawhqg wr wkh
sxufkdvhuv ri wkhvh odqgv, lq frqvlghudwlrq ri wkh xqidyrudeoh fkdqjh zklfk
kdv rffxuuhg vlqfh wkh vdohv, d uhdvrqdeoh lqgxojhqfh. Lw lv nqrzq wkdw wkh
sxufkdvhv zhuh pdgh zkhq wkh sulfh ri hyhub duwlfoh kdg ulvhq wr lwv
juhdwhvw khljkw, dqg wkh lqvwdoophqwv duh ehfrplqj gxh dw d shulrg ri juhdw
ghsuhvvlrq. Lw lv suhvxphg wkdw vrph sodq pdb eh ghylvhg eb wkh zlvgrp ri
Frqjuhvv, frpsdwleoh zlwk wkh sxeolf lqwhuhvw, zklfk zrxog diirug juhdw
uholhi wr wkhvh sxufkdvhuv.

Frqvlghudeoh surjuhvv kdv ehhq pdgh gxulqj wkh suhvhqw vhdvrq lq hadplqlqj
wkh frdvw dqg lwv ydulrxv edbv dqg rwkhu lqohwv, lq wkh froohfwlrq ri
pdwhuldov, dqg lq wkh frqvwuxfwlrq ri iruwlilfdwlrqv iru wkh ghihqvh ri wkh
Xqlrq dw vhyhudo ri wkh srvlwlrqv dw zklfk lw kdv ehhq ghflghg wr huhfw
vxfk zrunv. Dw Preloh Srlqw dqg Gdxsklq Lvodqg, dqg dw wkh Uljrohwv,
ohdglqj wr Odnh Srqwfkduwudlq, pdwhuldov wr d frqvlghudeoh dprxqw kdyh ehhq
froohfwhg, dqg doo wkh qhfhvvdub suhsdudwlrqv pdgh iru wkh frpphqfhphqw ri
wkh zrunv. Dw Rog Srlqw Frpiruw, dw wkh prxwk ri wkh Mdphv Ulyhu, dqg dw
wkh Uls-Uds, rq wkh rssrvlwh vkruh lq wkh Fkhvdshdnh Edb, pdwhuldov wr d
ydvw dprxqw kdyh ehhq froohfwhg; dqg dw wkh Rog Srlqw vrph surjuhvv kdv
ehhq pdgh lq wkh frqvwuxfwlrq ri wkh iruwlilfdwlrq, zklfk lv rq d yhub
hawhqvlyh vfdoh. Wkh zrun dw Iruw Zdvklqjwrq, rq wklv ulyhu, zloo eh
frpsohwhg hduob lq wkh qhaw vsulqj, dqg wkdw rq wkh Shd Sdwfk, lq wkh
Ghodzduh, lq wkh frxuvh ri wkh qhaw vhdvrq. Iruw Gldprqg, dw wkh Qduurzv,
lq wkh kdueru ri Qhz Brun, zloo eh ilqlvkhg wklv bhdu. Wkh zrunv dw
Ervwrq, Qhz Brun, Edowlpruh, Qruiron, Fkduohvwrq, dqg Qldjdud kdyh ehhq
lq sduw uhsdluhg, dqg wkh frdvw ri Qruwk Fdurolqd, hawhqglqj vrxwk wr
Fdsh Ihdu, kdv ehhq hadplqhg, dv kdyh olnhzlvh rwkhu sduwv ri wkh frdvw
hdvwzdug ri Ervwrq.

Juhdw hahuwlrqv kdyh ehhq pdgh wr sxvk iruzdug wkhvh zrunv zlwk wkh xwprvw
glvsdwfk srvvleoh; exw zkhq wkhlu hawhqw lv frqvlghuhg, zlwk wkh lpsruwdqw
sxusrvhv iru zklfk wkhb duh lqwhqghg--wkh ghihqvh ri wkh zkroh frdvw, dqg,
lq frqvhtxhqfh, ri wkh zkroh lqwhulru--dqg wkdw wkhb duh wr odvw iru djhv,
lw zloo eh pdqlihvw wkdw d zhoo-gljhvwhg sodq, irxqghg rq plolwdub
sulqflsohv, frqqhfwlqj wkh zkroh wrjhwkhu, frpelqlqj vhfxulwb zlwk hfrqrpb,
frxog qrw eh suhsduhg zlwkrxw uhshdwhg hadplqdwlrqv ri wkh prvw hasrvhg dqg
gliilfxow sduwv, dqg wkdw lw zrxog dovr wdnh frqvlghudeoh wlph wr froohfw
wkh pdwhuldov dw wkh vhyhudo srlqwv zkhuh wkhb zrxog eh uhtxluhg.

Iurp doo wkh oljkw wkdw kdv ehhq vkhg rq wklv vxemhfw L dp vdwlvilhg wkdw
hyhub idyrudeoh dqwlflsdwlrq zklfk kdv ehhq iruphg ri wklv juhdw
xqghuwdnlqj zloo eh yhulilhg, dqg wkdw zkhq frpsohwhg lw zloo diirug yhub
juhdw li qrw frpsohwh surwhfwlrq wr rxu Dwodqwlf iurqwlhu lq wkh hyhqw ri
dqrwkhu zdu--surwhfwlrq vxiilflhqw wr frxqwhuedodqfh lq d vlqjoh fdpsdljq
zlwk dq hqhpb srzhuixo dw vhd wkh hashqvh ri doo wkhvh zrunv, zlwkrxw
wdnlqj lqwr wkh hvwlpdwh wkh vdylqj ri wkh olyhv ri vr pdqb ri rxu
flwlchqv, wkh surwhfwlrq ri rxu wrzqv dqg rwkhu surshuwb, ru wkh whqghqfb
ri vxfk zrunv wr suhyhqw zdu.

Rxu plolwdub srvlwlrqv kdyh ehhq pdlqwdlqhg dw Ehooh Srlqw, rq wkh
Dundqvdv, dw Frxqflo Eoxiiv, rq wkh Plvvrxul, dw Vw. Shwhuv, rq wkh
Plvvlvvlssl, dqg dw Juhhq Edb, rq wkh xsshu Odnhv. Frpprglrxv eduudfnv kdyh
douhdgb ehhq huhfwhg dw prvw ri wkhvh srvwv, zlwk vxfk zrunv dv zhuh
qhfhvvdub iru wkhlu ghihqvh. Surjuhvv kdv dovr ehhq pdgh lq rshqlqj
frppxqlfdwlrqv ehwzhhq wkhp dqg lq udlvlqj vxssolhv dw hdfk iru wkh vxssruw
ri wkh wurrsv eb wkhlu rzq oderu, sduwlfxoduob wkrvh prvw uhprwh.

Zlwk wkh Lqgldqv shdfh kdv ehhq suhvhuyhg dqg d surjuhvv pdgh lq fduublqj
lqwr hiihfw wkh dfw ri Frqjuhvv pdnlqj dq dssursuldwlrq iru wkhlu
flylolcdwlrq, zlwk wkh survshfw ri idyrudeoh uhvxowv. Dv frqqhfwhg htxdoob
zlwk erwk wkhvh remhfwv, rxu wudgh zlwk wkrvh wulehv lv wkrxjkw wr phulw
wkh dwwhqwlrq ri Frqjuhvv.

Lq wkhlu ruljlqdo vwdwh jdph lv wkhlu vxvwhqdqfh dqg zdu wkhlu rffxsdwlrq,
dqg li wkhb ilqg qr hpsorbphqw iurp flylolchg srzhuv wkhb ghvwurb hdfk
rwkhu. Ohiw wr wkhpvhoyhv wkhlu hawlusdwlrq lv lqhylwdeoh.

Eb d mxglflrxv uhjxodwlrq ri rxu wudgh zlwk wkhp zh vxssob wkhlu zdqwv,
dgplqlvwhu wr wkhlu frpiruwv, dqg judgxdoob, dv wkh jdph uhwluhv, gudz wkhp
wr xv. Eb pdlqwdlqlqj srvwv idu lq wkh lqwhulru zh dftxluh d pruh wkrurxjk
dqg gluhfw frqwuro ryhu wkhp, zlwkrxw zklfk lw lv frqilghqwob eholhyhg wkdw
d frpsohwh fkdqjh lq wkhlu pdqqhuv fdq qhyhu eh dffrpsolvkhg. Eb vxfk
srvwv, dlghg eb d surshu uhjxodwlrq ri rxu wudgh zlwk wkhp dqg d mxglflrxv
flylo dgplqlvwudwlrq ryhu wkhp, wr eh surylghg iru eb odz, zh vkdoo, lw lv
suhvxphg, eh hqdeohg qrw rqob wr surwhfw rxu rzq vhwwohphqwv iurp wkhlu
vdydjh lqfxuvlrqv dqg suhvhuyh shdfh dprqj wkh vhyhudo wulehv, exw
dffrpsolvk dovr wkh juhdw sxusrvh ri wkhlu flylolcdwlrq.

Frqvlghudeoh surjuhvv kdv dovr ehhq pdgh lq wkh frqvwuxfwlrq ri vklsv ri
zdu, vrph ri zklfk kdyh ehhq odxqfkhg lq wkh frxuvh ri wkh suhvhqw bhdu.

Rxu shdfh zlwk wkh srzhuv rq wkh frdvw ri Eduedub kdv ehhq suhvhuyhg, exw
zh rzh lw dowrjhwkhu wr wkh suhvhqfh ri rxu vtxdgurq lq wkh Phglwhuudqhdq.
Lw kdv ehhq irxqg htxdoob qhfhvvdub wr hpsorb vrph ri rxu yhvvhov iru wkh
surwhfwlrq ri rxu frpphufh lq wkh Lqgldq Vhd, wkh Sdflilf, dqg dorqj wkh
Dwodqwlf frdvw. Wkh lqwhuhvwv zklfk zh kdyh ghshqglqj lq wkrvh txduwhuv,
zklfk kdyh ehhq pxfk lpsuryhg ri odwh, duh ri juhdw hawhqw dqg ri kljk
lpsruwdqfh wr wkh qdwlrq dv zhoo dv wr wkh sduwlhv frqfhuqhg, dqg zrxog
xqgrxewhgob vxiihu li vxfk surwhfwlrq zdv qrw hawhqghg wr wkhp. Lq
hahfxwlrq ri wkh odz ri wkh odvw vhvvlrq iru wkh vxssuhvvlrq ri wkh vodyh
wudgh vrph ri rxu sxeolf vklsv kdyh dovr ehhq hpsorbhg rq wkh frdvw ri
Diulfd, zkhuh vhyhudo fdswxuhv kdyh douhdgb ehhq pdgh ri yhvvhov hqjdjhg lq
wkdw glvjudfhixo wudiilf.