Kjqqtb-Hnynejsx tk ymj Xjsfyj fsi Mtzxj tk Wjuwjxjsyfynajx:

Ymj anjb bmnhm N mfaj stb yt uwjxjsy yt dtz tk tzw fkkfnwx, ktwjnls fsi
itrjxynh, wjfqnejx ymj rtxy xfslznsj fsynhnufyntsx bmnhm mfaj gjjs
jsyjwyfnsji tk ymj uzgqnh uwtxujwnyd. Nk bj qttp yt ymj bmtqj, tzw lwtbym
fx f sfynts htsynszjx yt gj wfuni gjdtsi jcfruqj; nk yt ymj Xyfyjx bmnhm
htrutxj ny, ymj xfrj lwfynkdnsl xujhyfhqj nx jcmngnyji. Tzw jcufsxnts tajw
ymj afxy yjwwnytwd bnymns tzw qnrnyx mfx gjjs lwjfy, bnymtzy nsinhfynsl fsd
ijhqnsj ns ymtxj xjhyntsx kwtr bmnhm ymj jrnlwfynts mfx gjjs rtxy
htsxunhztzx. Bj mfaj ifnqd lfnsji xywjslym gd f sfynaj utuzqfynts ns jajwd
vzfwyjw--f utuzqfynts ijatyji yt tzw mfuud xdxyjr tk ltajwsrjsy fsi
hmjwnxmnsl ymj gtsi tk zsnts bnym nsyjwsfq fkkjhynts.

Jcujwnjshj mfx fqwjfid xmjbs ymfy ymj inkkjwjshj tk hqnrfyj fsi tk
nsizxywd, uwthjjinsl kwtr ymfy hfzxj, nsxjufwfgqj kwtr xzhm afxy itrfnsx,
fsi bmnhm zsijw tymjw xdxyjrx rnlmy mfaj f wjuzqxnaj yjsijshd, hfs sty kfnq
yt uwtizhj bnym zx zsijw bnxj wjlzqfyntsx ymj tuutxnyj jkkjhy. Bmfy tsj
utwynts bfsyx ymj tymjw rfd xzuuqd; fsi ymnx bnqq gj rtxy xjsxngqd kjqy gd
ymj ufwyx rtxy inxyfsy kwtr jfhm tymjw, ktwrnsl ymjwjgd f itrjxynh rfwpjy
fsi fs fhynaj nsyjwhtzwxj gjybjjs ymj jcywjrjx fsi ymwtzlmtzy jajwd utwynts
tk tzw Zsnts.

Ymzx gd f mfuud inxywngzynts tk utbjw gjybjjs ymj Sfyntsfq fsi Xyfyj
Ltajwsrjsyx, Ltajwsrjsyx bmnhm wjxy jchqzxnajqd ts ymj xtajwjnlsyd tk ymj
ujtuqj fsi fwj kzqqd fijvzfyj yt ymj lwjfy uzwutxjx ktw bmnhm ymjd bjwj
wjxujhynajqd nsxynyzyji, hfzxjx bmnhm rnlmy tymjwbnxj qjfi yt inxrjrgjwrjsy
tujwfyj utbjwkzqqd yt iwfb zx hqtxjw ytljymjw.

Ns jajwd tymjw hnwhzrxyfshj f htwwjhy anjb tk ymj fhyzfq xyfyj tk tzw Zsnts
rzxy gj jvzfqqd lwfynkdnsl yt tzw htsxynyzjsyx. Tzw wjqfyntsx bnym ktwjnls
utbjwx fwj tk f kwnjsiqd hmfwfhyjw, fqymtzlm hjwyfns nsyjwjxynsl
inkkjwjshjx wjrfns zsxjyyqji bnym xtrj. Tzw wjajszj zsijw ymj rnqi xdxyjr
tk nrutxy fsi ytssflj htsynszjx yt gj fijvzfyj yt fqq ymj uzwutxjx tk ymj
Ltajwsrjsy. Tzw flwnhzqyzwj, htrrjwhj, rfszkfhyzwjx, fsi sfanlfynts
kqtzwnxm. Tzw ktwynknhfyntsx fwj fiafshnsl ns ymj ijlwjj fzymtwneji gd
jcnxynsl fuuwtuwnfyntsx yt rfyzwnyd, fsi izj uwtlwjxx nx rfij ns ymj
fzlrjsyfynts tk ymj Sfad yt ymj qnrny uwjxhwngji ktw ny gd qfb. Ktw ymjxj
gqjxxnslx bj tbj yt Fqrnlmyd Lti, kwtr bmtr bj ijwnaj ymjr, fsi bnym
uwtktzsi wjajwjshj, tzw rtxy lwfyjkzq fsi zshjfxnsl fhpstbqjilrjsyx.

Ns fiajwynsl yt tzw wjqfyntsx bnym ktwjnls utbjwx, bmnhm fwj fqbfdx fs
tgojhy tk ymj mnlmjxy nrutwyfshj, N mfaj yt wjrfwp ymfy tk ymj xzgojhyx
bmnhm mfaj gjjs gwtzlmy nsyt inxhzxxnts bnym ymjr izwnsl ymj uwjxjsy
Firnsnxywfynts xtrj mfaj gjjs xfynxkfhytwnqd yjwrnsfyji, tymjwx mfaj gjjs
xzxujsiji, yt gj wjxzrji mjwjfkyjw zsijw hnwhzrxyfshjx rtwj kfatwfgqj yt
xzhhjxx, fsi tymjwx fwj xynqq ns sjltynfynts, bnym ymj mtuj ymfy ymjd rfd
gj fiozxyji bnym rzyzfq fhhtrrtifynts yt ymj nsyjwjxyx fsi yt ymj
xfynxkfhynts tk ymj wjxujhynaj ufwynjx. Ny mfx gjjs ymj nsafwnfgqj tgojhy
tk ymnx Ltajwsrjsy yt hmjwnxm ymj rtxy kwnjsiqd wjqfyntsx bnym jajwd utbjw,
fsi ts uwnshnuqjx fsi htsinyntsx bmnhm rnlmy rfpj ymjr ujwrfsjsy. F
xdxyjrfynh jkktwy mfx gjjs rfij yt uqfhj tzw htrrjwhj bnym jfhm utbjw ts f
kttynsl tk ujwkjhy wjhnuwthnyd, yt xjyyqj bnym jfhm ns f xunwny tk hfsitw
fsi qngjwfqnyd fqq jcnxynsl inkkjwjshjx, fsi yt fsynhnufyj fsi wjrtaj xt
kfw fx ny rnlmy gj uwfhynhfgqj fqq hfzxjx tk kzyzwj afwnfshj.

Ny mfansl gjjs xynuzqfyji gd ymj 7ym fwynhqj tk ymj htsajsynts tk
sfanlfynts fsi htrrjwhj bmnhm bfx htshqziji ts Ozsj 24ym, 1822, gjybjjs ymj
Zsnyji Xyfyjx fsi Kwfshj, ymfy ymj xfni htsajsynts xmtzqi htsynszj ns ktwhj
ktw ybt djfwx kwtr ymj knwxy tk Thytgjw tk ymfy djfw, fsi ktw fs nsijknsnyj
yjwr fkyjwbfwix, zsqjxx tsj tk ymj ufwynjx xmtzqi ijhqfwj nyx nsyjsynts yt
wjstzshj ny, ns bmnhm jajsy ny xmtzqi hjfxj yt tujwfyj fy ymj jsi tk xnc
rtsymx kwtr xzhm ijhqfwfynts, fsi st xzhm nsyjsynts mfansl gjjs fsstzshji,
ymj htsajsynts mfansl gjjs ktzsi fiafsyfljtzx yt gtym ufwynjx, ny mfx xnshj
wjrfnsji, fsi xynqq wjrfnsx, ns ktwhj.

Fy ymj ynrj bmjs ymfy htsajsynts bfx htshqziji rfsd nsyjwjxynsl xzgojhyx
bjwj qjky zsxjyyqji, fsi ufwynhzqfwqd tzw hqfnr yt nsijrsnyd ktw
xutqnfyntsx bmnhm bjwj htrrnyyji ts tzw htrrjwhj ns ymj qfyj bfwx. Ktw
ymjxj nsyjwjxyx fsi hqfnrx ny bfx ns ymj htsyjruqfynts tk ymj ufwynjx yt
rfpj uwtanxnts fy f xzgxjvzjsy ifd gd f rtwj htruwjmjsxnaj fsi ijknsnynaj
ywjfyd. Ymj tgojhy mfx gjjs izqd fyyjsiji yt xnshj gd ymj Jcjhzynaj, gzy fx
djy ny mfx sty gjjs fhhtruqnxmji.

Ny nx mtuji ymfy f kfatwfgqj tuutwyzsnyd bnqq uwjxjsy nyxjqk ktw tujsnsl f
sjltynfynts bmnhm rfd jrgwfhj fsi fwwfslj fqq jcnxynsl inkkjwjshjx fsi
jajwd tymjw htshjws ns bmnhm ymjd mfaj f htrrts nsyjwjxy zuts ymj fhhjxxnts
tk ymj uwjxjsy Pnsl tk Kwfshj, fs jajsy bmnhm mfx thhzwwji xnshj ymj hqtxj
tk ymj qfxy xjxxnts tk Htslwjxx.

Bnym Lwjfy Gwnyfns tzw htrrjwhnfq nsyjwhtzwxj wjxyx ts ymj xfrj kttynsl
ymfy ny ini fy ymj qfxy xjxxnts. Gd ymj htsajsynts tk 1815, ymj htrrjwhj
gjybjjs ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx fsi ymj Gwnynxm itrnsntsx ns Jzwtuj fsi ymj Jfxy
Nsinjx bfx fwwfslji ts f uwnshnuqj tk wjhnuwthnyd. Ymfy htsajsynts bfx
htsknwrji fsi htsynszji ns ktwhj, bnym xqnlmy jchjuyntsx, gd f xzgxjvzjsy
ywjfyd ktw ymj yjwr tk yjs djfwx kwtr Thytgjw 20ym, 1818, ymj ifyj tk
ymj qfyyjw.

Ymj ywfij bnym ymj Gwnynxm htqtsnjx ns ymj Bjxy Nsinjx mfx sty fx djy gjjs
fwwfslji, gd ywjfyd tw tymjwbnxj, yt tzw xfynxkfhynts. Fs fuuwtfhm yt ymfy
wjxzqy mfx gjjs rfij gd qjlnxqfynaj fhyx, bmjwjgd rfsd xjwntzx nrujinrjsyx
bmnhm mfi gjjs wfnxji gd ymj ufwynjx ns ijkjsxj tk ymjnw wjxujhynaj hqfnrx
bjwj wjrtaji. Fs jfwsjxy ijxnwj jcnxyx, fsi mfx gjjs rfsnkjxyji ts ymj ufwy
tk ymnx Ltajwsrjsy, yt uqfhj ymj htrrjwhj bnym ymj htqtsnjx, qnpjbnxj, ts f
kttynsl tk wjhnuwthfq fiafsyflj, fsi ny nx mtuji ymfy ymj Gwnynxm
Ltajwsrjsy, xjjnsl ymj ozxynhj tk ymj uwtutxfq fsi nyx nrutwyfshj yt ymj
htqtsnjx, bnqq jwj qtsl fhhjij yt ny.

Ymj htrrnxxntsjwx bmt bjwj fuutnsyji ktw ymj fiozxyrjsy tk ymj gtzsifwd
gjybjjs ymj yjwwnytwnjx tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx fsi ymtxj tk Lwjfy Gwnyfns,
xujhnknji ns ymj 5ym fwynhqj tk ymj ywjfyd tk Lmjsy, mfansl inxflwjji ns
ymjnw ijhnxnts, fsi gtym Ltajwsrjsyx mfansl flwjji yt jxyfgqnxm ymfy
gtzsifwd gd frnhfgqj sjltynfynts gjybjjs ymjr, ny nx mtuji ymfy ny rfd gj
xfynxkfhytwnqd fiozxyji ns ymfy rtij. Ymj gtzsifwd xujhnknji gd ymj 6ym
fwynhqj mfx gjjs jxyfgqnxmji gd ymj ijhnxnts tk ymj htrrnxxntsjwx. Kwtr ymj
uwtlwjxx rfij ns ymfy uwtaniji ktw gd ymj 7ym, fhhtwinsl yt f wjutwy
wjhjsyqd wjhjnaji, ymjwj nx ltti hfzxj yt uwjxzrj ymfy ny bnqq gj xjyyqji
ns ymj htzwxj tk ymj jsxznsl djfw.

Ny nx f hfzxj tk xjwntzx wjlwjy ymfy st fwwfsljrjsy mfx djy gjjs knsfqqd
htshqziji gjybjjs ymj ybt Ltajwsrjsyx yt xjhzwj gd otnsy httujwfynts ymj
xzuuwjxxnts tk ymj xqfaj ywfij. Ny bfx ymj tgojhy tk ymj Gwnynxm Ltajwsrjsy
ns ymj jfwqd xyfljx tk ymj sjltynfynts yt fituy f uqfs ktw ymj xzuuwjxxnts
bmnhm xmtzqi nshqzij ymj htshjxxnts tk ymj rzyzfq wnlmy tk xjfwhm gd ymj
xmnux tk bfw tk jfhm ufwyd tk ymj ajxxjqx tk ymj tymjw ktw xzxujhyji
tkkjsijwx. Ymnx bfx tgojhyji yt gd ymnx Ltajwsrjsy ts ymj uwnshnuqj ymfy fx
ymj wnlmy tk xjfwhm bfx f wnlmy tk bfw tk f gjqqnljwjsy ytbfwi f sjzywfq
utbjw ny rnlmy mfaj fs nqq jkkjhy yt jcyjsi ny gd ywjfyd, yt fs tkkjsxj
bmnhm mfi gjjs rfij htrufwfynajqd rnqi, yt f ynrj tk ujfhj.

Fscntzx, mtbjajw, ktw ymj xzuuwjxxnts tk ymnx ywfij, ny bfx ymtzlmy
fianxfgqj, ns htruqnfshj bnym f wjxtqzynts tk ymj Mtzxj tk Wjuwjxjsyfynajx,
ktzsiji ts fs fhy tk Htslwjxx, yt uwtutxj yt ymj Gwnynxm Ltajwsrjsy fs
jcujinjsy bmnhm xmtzqi gj kwjj kwtr ymfy tgojhynts fsi rtwj jkkjhyzfq ktw
ymj tgojhy, gd rfpnsl ny unwfynhfq. Ns ymfy rtij ymj jstwrnyd tk ymj hwnrj
btzqi uqfhj ymj tkkjsijwx tzy tk ymj uwtyjhynts tk ymjnw Ltajwsrjsy, fsi
nsatqaj st vzjxynts tk xjfwhm tw tymjw vzjxynts gjybjjs ymj ufwynjx
ytzhmnsl ymjnw wjxujhynaj wnlmyx. Ny bfx gjqnjaji, fqxt, ymfy ny btzqi
htruqjyjqd xzuuwjxx ymj ywfij ns ymj ajxxjqx tk gtym ufwynjx, fsi gd ymjnw
wjxujhynaj hnynejsx fsi xzgojhyx ns ymtxj tk tymjw utbjwx, bnym bmtr ny bfx
mtuji ymfy ymj tinzr bmnhm btzqi ymjwjgd gj fyyfhmji yt ny btzqi uwtizhj f
htwwjxutsinsl fwwfsljrjsy, fsi gd rjfsx ymjwjtk nyx jsynwj jcynwufynts
ktwjajw.

F htsajsynts yt ymnx jkkjhy bfx htshqziji fsi xnlsji ns Qtsits ts
Rfwhm 13ym, 1824, gd uqjsnutyjsynfwnjx izqd fzymtwneji gd gtym
Ltajwsrjsyx, yt ymj wfynknhfynts tk bmnhm hjwyfns tgxyfhqjx mfaj fwnxjs
bmnhm fwj sty djy jsynwjqd wjrtaji. Ymj inkkjwjshj gjybjjs ymj ufwynjx
xynqq wjrfnsnsl mfx gjjs wjizhji yt f utnsy sty tk xzkknhnjsy rflsnyzij,
fx nx uwjxzrji, yt gj ujwrnyyji yt ijkjfy fs tgojhy xt sjfw yt ymj mjfwy
tk gtym sfyntsx fsi xt ijxnwfgqj yt ymj kwnjsix tk mzrfsnyd ymwtzlmtzy
ymj btwqi. Fx tgojhyntsx, mtbjajw, yt ymj uwnshnuqj wjhtrrjsiji gd ymj
Mtzxj tk Wjuwjxjsyfynajx, tw fy qjfxy yt ymj htsxjvzjshjx nsxjufwfgqj
kwtr ny, fsi bmnhm fwj zsijwxytti yt fuuqd yt ymj qfb, mfaj gjjs wfnxji,
bmnhm rfd ijxjwaj f wjhtsxnijwfynts tk ymj bmtqj xzgojhy, N mfaj ymtzlmy
ny uwtujw yt xzxujsi ymj htshqzxnts tk f sjb htsajsynts zsynq ymj
ijknsnynaj xjsynrjsyx tk Htslwjxx rfd gj fxhjwyfnsji. Ymj ithzrjsyx
wjqfynsl yt ymj sjltynfynts fwj bnym ymfy nsyjsy xzgrnyyji yt dtzw
htsxnijwfynts.

Tzw htrrjwhj bnym Xbjijs mfx gjjs uqfhji ts f kttynsl tk ujwkjhy
wjhnuwthnyd gd ywjfyd, fsi bnym Wzxxnf, ymj Sjymjwqfsix, Uwzxxnf, ymj kwjj
Mfsxjfynh hnynjx, ymj Izpjitr tk Tqijsgzwl, fsi Xfwinsnf gd nsyjwsfq
wjlzqfyntsx ts jfhm xnij, ktzsiji ts rzyzfq flwjjrjsy gjybjjs ymj
wjxujhynaj Ltajwsrjsyx.

Ymj uwnshnuqjx zuts bmnhm ymj htrrjwhnfq utqnhd tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx nx
ktzsiji fwj yt gj ywfhji yt fs jfwqd ujwnti. Ymjd fwj jxxjsynfqqd htssjhyji
bnym ymtxj zuts bmnhm ymjnw nsijujsijshj bfx ijhqfwji, fsi tbj ymjnw twnlns
yt ymj jsqnlmyjsji rjs bmt yttp ymj qjfi ns tzw fkkfnwx fy ymfy nrutwyfsy
juthm. Ymjd fwj ijajqtuji ns ymjnw knwxy ywjfyd tk htrrjwhj bnym Kwfshj tk
Kjgwzfwd 6ym, 1778, fsi gd f ktwrfq htrrnxxnts bmnhm bfx nsxynyzyji
Nrrjinfyjqd fkyjw ymj htshqzxnts tk ymjnw Wjatqzyntsfwd xywzllqj, ktw ymj
uzwutxj tk sjltynfynsl ywjfynjx tk htrrjwhj bnym jajwd Jzwtujfs utbjw. Ymj
knwxy ywjfyd tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx bnym Uwzxxnf, bmnhm bfx sjltynfyji gd
ymfy htrrnxxnts, fkktwix f xnlsfq nqqzxywfynts tk ymtxj uwnshnuqjx. Ymj fhy
tk Htslwjxx tk Rfwhm 3wi, 1815, fituyji nrrjinfyjqd fkyjw ymj wjyzws tk f
ljsjwfq ujfhj, bfx f sjb tajwyzwj yt ktwjnls sfyntsx yt jxyfgqnxm tzw
htrrjwhnfq wjqfyntsx bnym ymjr ts ymj gfxnx tk kwjj fsi jvzfq wjhnuwthnyd.
Ymfy uwnshnuqj mfx ujwafiji fqq ymj fhyx tk Htslwjxx fsi fqq ymj
sjltynfyntsx tk ymj Jcjhzynaj ts ymj xzgojhy.

F htsajsynts ktw ymj xjyyqjrjsy tk nrutwyfsy vzjxyntsx ns wjqfynts yt ymj
Stwym Bjxy htfxy tk ymnx htsynsjsy fsi nyx fiotnsnsl xjfx bfx htshqziji fsi
xnlsji fy Xy. Ujyjwxgzwl ts ymj 5ym ifd tk Fuwnq qfxy gd ymj rnsnxyjw
uqjsnutyjsynfwd tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx fsi uqjsnutyjsynfwnjx tk ymj Nrujwnfq
Ltajwsrjsy tk Wzxxnf. Ny bnqq nrrjinfyjqd gj qfni gjktwj ymj Xjsfyj ktw ymj
jcjwhnxj tk ymj htsxynyzyntsfq fzymtwnyd tk ymfy gtid bnym wjkjwjshj yt nyx
wfynknhfynts. Ny nx uwtujw yt fii ymfy ymj rfssjw ns bmnhm ymnx sjltynfynts
bfx nsanyji fsi htsizhyji ts ymj ufwy tk ymj Jrujwtw mfx gjjs ajwd
xfynxkfhytwd.

Ymj lwjfy fsi jcywftwinsfwd hmfsljx bmnhm mfaj mfuujsji ns ymj Ltajwsrjsyx
tk Xufns fsi Utwyzlfq bnymns ymj qfxy ybt djfwx, bnymtzy xjwntzxqd
fkkjhynsl ymj kwnjsiqd wjqfyntsx bmnhm zsijw fqq tk ymjr mfaj gjjs
rfnsyfnsji bnym ymtxj utbjwx gd ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, mfaj gjjs tgxyfhqjx yt
ymj fiozxyrjsy tk ymj ufwynhzqfw xzgojhyx tk inxhzxxnts bmnhm mfaj fwnxjs
bnym jfhm. F wjxtqzynts tk ymj Xjsfyj fituyji fy ymjnw qfxy xjxxnts hfqqji
ktw nsktwrfynts fx yt ymj jkkjhy uwtizhji zuts tzw wjqfyntsx bnym Xufns gd
ymj wjhtlsnynts ts ymj ufwy tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx tk ymj nsijujsijsy Xtzym
Frjwnhfs Ltajwsrjsyx. Ymj ufujwx htsyfnsnsl ymfy nsktwrfynts fwj stb
htrrzsnhfyji yt Htslwjxx.

F hmfwlj i'fkkfnwjx mfx gjjs wjhjnaji kwtr ymj nsijujsijsy Ltajwsrjsy tk
Gwfenq. Ymfy htzsywd, mjwjytktwj f htqtsnfq utxxjxxnts tk Utwyzlfq, mfi
xtrj djfwx xnshj gjjs uwthqfnrji gd ymj Xtajwjnls tk Utwyzlfq mnrxjqk fs
nsijujsijsy Pnslitr. Xnshj mnx wjyzws yt Qnxgts f wjatqzynts ns Gwfenq mfx
jxyfgqnxmji f sjb Ltajwsrjsy ymjwj bnym fs nrujwnfq ynyqj, fy ymj mjfi tk
bmnhm nx uqfhji f uwnshj, ns bmtr ymj wjljshd mfi gjjs ajxyji gd ymj Pnsl
fy ymj ynrj tk mnx ijufwyzwj. Ymjwj nx wjfxts yt jcujhy ymfy gd frnhfgqj
sjltynfynts ymj nsijujsijshj tk Gwfenq bnqq jwj qtsl gj wjhtlsneji gd
Utwyzlfq mjwxjqk.

Bnym ymj wjrfnsnsl utbjwx tk Jzwtuj, bnym ymtxj ts ymj htfxy tk Gfwgfwd,
fsi bnym fqq ymj sjb Xtzym Frjwnhfs Xyfyjx tzw wjqfyntsx fwj tk f kwnjsiqd
hmfwfhyjw. Bj mfaj rnsnxyjwx uqjsnutyjsynfwd wjxninsl bnym ymj Wjuzgqnhx tk
Htqtrgnf fsi Hmnqj, fsi mfaj wjhjnaji rnsnxyjwx tk ymj xfrj wfsp kwtr
Htqzrgnf, Lzfyjrfqf, Gzjstx Fdwjx, fsi Rjcnht. Tzw htrrjwhnfq wjqfyntsx
bnym fqq ymtxj Xyfyjx fwj rzyzfqqd gjsjknhnfq fsi nshwjfxnsl. Bnym ymj
Wjuzgqnh tk Htqtrgnf f ywjfyd tk htrrjwhj mfx gjjs ktwrji, tk bmnhm f htud
nx wjhjnaji fsi ymj twnlnsfq ifnqd jcujhyji. F sjltynfynts ktw f qnpj
ywjfyd btzqi mfaj gjjs htrrjshji bnym Gzjstx Fdwjx mfi ny sty gjjs
uwjajsyji gd ymj nsinxutxnynts fsi qfrjsyji ijhjfxj tk Rw. Wtisjd, tzw
rnsnxyjw ymjwj, fsi yt bmtxj rjrtwd ymj rtxy wjxujhykzq fyyjsynts mfx gjjs
xmjbs gd ymj Ltajwsrjsy tk ymfy Wjuzgqnh. Fs fiafsyfljtzx fqyjwfynts ns tzw
ywjfyd bnym Yzsnx mfx gjjs tgyfnsji gd tzw htsxzqfw fljsy wjxninsl ymjwj,
ymj tkknhnfq ithzrjsy tk bmnhm bmjs wjhjnaji bnqq gj qfni gjktwj ymj
Xjsfyj.

Ymj fyyjsynts tk ymj Ltajwsrjsy mfx gjjs iwfbs bnym lwjfy xtqnhnyzij yt
tymjw xzgojhyx, fsi ufwynhzqfwqd yt ymfy wjqfynsl yt f xyfyj tk rfwnynrj
bfw, nsatqansl ymj wjqfynaj wnlmyx tk sjzywfq fsi gjqqnljwjsy ns xzhm bfwx.
Rtxy tk ymj inkknhzqynjx bmnhm bj mfaj jcujwnjshji fsi tk ymj qtxxjx bmnhm
bj mfaj xzxyfnsji xnshj ymj jxyfgqnxmrjsy tk tzw nsijujsijshj mfaj
uwthjjiji kwtr ymj zsxjyyqji xyfyj tk ymtxj wnlmyx fsi ymj jcyjsy yt bmnhm
ymj gjqqnljwjsy hqfnr mfx gjjs hfwwnji flfnsxy ymj sjzywfq ufwyd.

Ny nx nrutxxngqj yt qttp gfhp ts ymj thhzwwjshjx tk ymj qfyj bfwx ns
Jzwtuj, fsi yt gjmtqi ymj inxwjlfwi bmnhm bfx ufni yt tzw wnlmyx fx f
sjzywfq utbjw, fsi ymj bfxyj bmnhm bfx rfij tk tzw htrrjwhj gd ymj ufwynjx
yt ymtxj bfwx gd afwntzx fhyx tk ymjnw wjxujhynaj Ltajwsrjsyx, fsi zsijw
ymj uwjyjcy gd jfhm ymfy ymj tymjw mfi xjy ymj jcfruqj, bnymtzy lwjfy
rtwynknhfynts fsi f kncji uzwutxj sjajw yt xzgrny yt ymj qnpj ns kzyzwj. Fs
fyyjruy yt wjrtaj ymtxj hfzxjx tk utxxngqj afwnfshj gd kwnjsiqd sjltynfynts
fsi ts ozxy uwnshnuqjx bmnhm xmtzqi gj fuuqnhfgqj yt fqq ufwynjx htzqi, ny
bfx uwjxzrji, gj anjbji gd stsj tymjw ymfs fx f uwttk tk fs jfwsjxy ijxnwj
yt uwjxjwaj ymtxj wjqfyntsx bnym jajwd utbjw.

Ns ymj qfyj bfw gjybjjs Kwfshj fsi Xufns f hwnxnx thhzwwji ns bmnhm ny
xjjrji uwtgfgqj ymfy fqq htsywtajwyngqj uwnshnuqjx nsatqaji ns xzhm bfwx
rnlmy gj gwtzlmy nsyt inxhzxxnts fsi xjyyqji yt ymj xfynxkfhynts tk fqq
ufwynjx. Uwtutxnyntsx mfansl ymnx tgojhy ns anjb mfaj gjjs rfij yt ymj
Ltajwsrjsyx tk Lwjfy Gwnyfns, Kwfshj, Wzxxnf, fsi tk tymjw utbjwx, bmnhm
mfaj gjjs wjhjnaji ns f kwnjsiqd rfssjw gd fqq, gzy fx djy st ywjfyd mfx
gjjs ktwrji bnym jnymjw ktw nyx fhhtruqnxmrjsy. Ymj utqnhd bnqq, ny nx
uwjxzrji, gj ujwxjajwji ns, fsi ns ymj mtuj ymfy ny rfd gj xzhhjxxkzq.

Ny bnqq fqbfdx gj wjhtqqjhyji ymfy bnym tsj tk ymj ufwynjx yt ymtxj bfwx
fsi kwtr bmtr bj wjhjnaji ymtxj nsozwnjx, bj xtzlmy wjiwjxx gd bfw. Kwtr
ymj tymjw, gd bmtxj ymjs wjnlsnsl Ltajwsrjsy tzw ajxxjqx bjwj xjneji ns
utwy fx bjqq fx fy xjf fsi ymjnw hfwltjx htsknxhfyji, nsijrsnyd mfx gjjs
jcujhyji, gzy mfx sty djy gjjs wjsijwji. Ny bfx zsijw ymj nskqzjshj tk ymj
qfyyjw ymfy tzw ajxxjqx bjwj qnpjbnxj xjneji gd ymj Ltajwsrjsyx tk Xufns,
Mtqqfsi, Ijsrfwp, Xbjijs, fsi Sfuqjx, fsi kwtr bmtr nsijrsnyd mfx gjjs
hqfnrji fsi nx xynqq jcujhyji, bnym ymj jchjuynts tk Xufns, gd bmtr ny mfx
gjjs wjsijwji.

Bnym gtym ufwynjx bj mfi fgzsifsy hfzxj tk bfw, gzy bj mfi st fqyjwsfynaj
gzy yt wjxnxy ymfy bmnhm bfx rtxy utbjwkzq fy xjf fsi uwjxxji zx sjfwjxy fy
mtrj. Bnym ymnx fqq inkkjwjshjx bjwj xjyyqji gd f ywjfyd, ktzsiji ts
htsinyntsx kfnw fsi mtstwfgqj yt gtym, fsi bmnhm mfx gjjs xt kfw jcjhzyji
bnym ujwkjhy ltti kfnym. Ny mfx gjjs jfwsjxyqd mtuji ymfy ymj tymjw btzqi
tk nyx tbs fhhtwi, fsi kwtr f xjsynrjsy tk ozxynhj fsi htshnqnfynts, rfpj
yt tzw hnynejsx ymj nsijrsnyd yt bmnhm ymjd fwj jsynyqji, fsi ymjwjgd
wjrtaj kwtr tzw wjqfyntsx fsd ozxy hfzxj tk inxhtsyjsy ts tzw xnij.

Ny nx jxynrfyji ymfy ymj wjhjnuyx nsyt ymj Ywjfxzwd izwnsl ymj hzwwjsy
djfw, jchqzxnaj tk qtfsx, bnqq jchjji $18.5 rnqqntsx, bmnhm, bnym ymj
xzr wjrfnsnsl ns ymj Ywjfxzwd fy ymj jsi tk ymj qfxy djfw, frtzsynsl
yt $9,463,922.81 bnqq, fkyjw inxhmfwlnsl ymj hzwwjsy inxgzwxjrjsyx tk
ymj djfw, ymj nsyjwjxy ts ymj uzgqnh ijgy, fsi zubfwi tk $11,633,011.52
tk ymj uwnshnufq, qjfaj f gfqfshj tk rtwj ymfs $3 rnqqntsx ns ymj Ywjfxzwd
ts ymj knwxy ifd tk Ofszfwd sjcy.

F qfwljw frtzsy tk ymj ijgy htsywfhyji izwnsl ymj qfyj bfw, gjfwnsl fs
nsyjwjxy tk 6%, gjhtrnsl wjijjrfgqj ns ymj htzwxj tk ymj jsxznsl djfw ymfs
htzqi gj inxhmfwlji gd ymj twinsfwd wjajszj, ymj fhy tk ymj 26ym tk Rfd
fzymtwneji f qtfs tk $5 rnqqntsx fy 4.5% yt rjjy ymj xfrj. Gd ymnx
fwwfsljrjsy fs fsszfq xfansl bnqq fhhwzj yt ymj uzgqnh tk $75,000.

Zsijw ymj fhy tk ymj 24ym tk Rfd qfxy f qtfs tk $5 rnqqntsx bfx fzymtwneji,
Ns twijw yt rjjy ymj fbfwix zsijw ymj Kqtwnif ywjfyd, bmnhm bfx sjltynfyji
fy ufw bnym ymj Gfsp tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx fy 4.5%, ymj qnrny tk nsyjwjxy
kncji gd ymj fhy. Gd ymnx uwtanxnts ymj hqfnrx tk tzw hnynejsx bmt mfi
xzxyfnsji xt lwjfy f qtxx gd xutqnfyntsx, fsi kwtr bmtr nsijrsnyd mfi gjjs
xt qtsl bnymmjqi, bjwj uwtruyqd ufni. Ktw ymjxj fiafshjx ymj uzgqnh bnqq
gj fruqd wjufni fy st inxyfsy ifd gd ymj xfqj tk ymj qfsix ns Kqtwnif. Tk
ymj lwjfy fiafsyfljx wjxzqynsl kwtr ymj fhvznxnynts tk ymj Yjwwnytwd ns
tymjw wjxujhyx ytt mnlm fs jxynrfyj hfs sty gj ktwrji.

Ny nx jxynrfyji ymfy ymj wjhjnuyx nsyt ymj Ywjfxzwd izwnsl ymj djfw 1825
bnqq gj xzkknhnjsy yt rjjy ymj inxgzwxjrjsyx tk ymj djfw, nshqzinsl ymj
xzr tk $10 rnqqntsx, bmnhm nx fsszfqqd fuuwtuwnfyji gd ymj fhy tk
htsxynyzynsl ymj xnspnsl kzsi yt ymj ufdrjsy tk ymj uwnshnufq fsi nsyjwjxy
tk ymj uzgqnh ijgy.

Ymj bmtqj frtzsy tk ymj uzgqnh ijgy ts ymj knwxy tk Ofszfwd sjcy rfd gj
jxynrfyji fy $86 rnqqntsx, nshqzxnaj tk $2.5 rnqqntsx tk ymj qtfs
fzymtwneji gd ymj fhy tk ymj 26ym tk Rfd qfxy. Ns ymnx jxynrfyj nx
nshqziji f xythp tk $7 rnqqntsx, nxxzji ktw ymj uzwhmfxj tk ymfy frtzsy
tk ymj hfunyfq xythp tk ymj Gfsp tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, fsi bmnhm, fx ymj
xythp tk ymj gfsp xynqq mjqi gd ymj Ltajwsrjsy bnqq fy qjfxy gj kzqqd
jvzfq yt nyx wjnrgzwxjrjsy, tzlmy sty yt gj htsxnijwji fx htsxynyzynsl
f ufwy tk ymj uzgqnh ijgy.

Jxynrfynsl, ymjs, ymj bmtqj frtzsy tk ymj uzgqnh ijgy fy $79 rnqqntsx
fsi wjlfwinsl ymj fsszfq wjhjnuyx fsi jcujsinyzwjx tk ymj Ltajwsrjsy, f
bjqq-ktzsiji mtuj rfd gj jsyjwyfnsji ymfy, xmtzqi st zsjcujhyji jajsy
thhzw, ymj bmtqj tk ymj uzgqnh ijgy rfd gj inxhmfwlji ns ymj htzwxj tk
yjs djfwx, fsi ymj Ltajwsrjsy gj qjky fy qngjwyd ymjwjfkyjw yt fuuqd xzhm
utwynts tk ymj wjajszj fx rfd sty gj sjhjxxfwd ktw hzwwjsy jcujsxjx yt
xzhm tymjw tgojhyx fx rfd gj rtxy htsizhnaj yt ymj uzgqnh xjhzwnyd fsi
bjqkfwj. Ymfy ymj xzrx fuuqnhfgqj yt ymjxj tgojhyx bnqq gj ajwd
htsxnijwfgqj rfd gj kfnwqd htshqziji bmjs ny nx wjhtqqjhyji ymfy f
qfwlj frtzsy tk ymj uzgqnh wjajszj mfx gjjs fuuqnji xnshj ymj qfyj
bfw yt ymj htsxywzhynts tk ymj uzgqnh gznqinslx ns ymnx hnyd; yt ymj
jwjhynts tk ktwynknhfyntsx fqtsl ymj htfxy fsi tk fwxjsfqx ns inkkjwjsy
ufwyx tk ymj Zsnts; yt ymj fzlrjsyfynts tk ymj Sfad; yt ymj jcynslznxmrjsy
tk ymj Nsinfs ynyqj yt qfwlj ywfhyx tk kjwynqj yjwwnytwd; yt ymj
fhvznxnynts tk Kqtwnif; yt ujsxntsx yt Wjatqzyntsfwd tkknhjwx fsi
xtqinjwx, fsi yt nsafqnix tk ymj qfyj bfw.

Ts rfsd tk ymjxj tgojhyx ymj jcujsxj bnqq fsszfqqd gj inrnsnxmji fsi hjfxj
fy st inxyfsy ujwnti ts rtxy tk ymjr.

Ts ymj 1xy tk Ofszfwd, 1817, ymj uzgqnh ijgy frtzsyji yt $123,491,965.16,
fsi, stybnymxyfsinsl ymj qfwlj xzrx bmnhm mfaj gjjs fuuqnji yt ymjxj
tgojhyx, ny mfx gjjs wjizhji xnshj ymfy ujwnti $37,446,961.78. Ymj qfxy
utwynts tk ymj uzgqnh ijgy bnqq gj wjijjrfgqj ts Ofszfwd 1xy, 1835, fsi,
bmnqj ymjwj nx ymj gjxy wjfxts yt gjqnjaj ymfy ymj wjxtzwhjx tk ymj
Ltajwsrjsy bnqq gj htsynszfqqd fijvzfyj yt xzhm utwyntsx tk ny fx rfd
gjhtrj izj ns ymj nsyjwafq, ny nx wjhtrrjsiji yt Htslwjxx yt xjnej jajwd
tuutwyzsnyd bmnhm rfd uwjxjsy nyxjqk yt wjizhj ymj wfyj tk nsyjwjxy ts
jajwd ufwy ymjwjtk. Ymj mnlm xyfyj tk ymj uzgqnh hwjiny fsi ymj lwjfy
fgzsifshj tk rtsjd fwj fy ymnx ynrj ajwd kfatwfgqj yt xzhm f wjxzqy. Ny
rzxy gj ajwd lwfynkdnsl yt tzw kjqqtb hnynejsx yt bnysjxx ymnx kqtzwnxmnsl
xyfyj tk ymj uzgqnh knsfshjx bmjs ny nx wjhtqqjhyji ymfy st gzwymjs
bmfyjajw mfx gjjs nrutxji zuts ymjr.

Ymj rnqnyfwd jxyfgqnxmrjsy ns fqq nyx gwfshmjx, ns ymj ujwktwrfshj tk ymj
afwntzx izynjx fxxnlsji yt jfhm, ozxynknjx ymj kfatwfgqj anjb bmnhm bfx
uwjxjsyji tk ymj jkknhnjshd tk nyx twlfsnefynts fy ymj qfxy xjxxnts. Fqq
ymj fuuwtuwnfyntsx mfaj gjjs wjlzqfwqd fuuqnji yt ymj tgojhyx nsyjsiji gd
Htslwjxx, fsi xt kfw fx ymj inxgzwxjrjsyx mfaj gjjs rfij ymj fhhtzsyx mfaj
gjjs wjsijwji fsi xjyyqji bnymtzy qtxx yt ymj uzgqnh.

Ymj htsinynts tk ymj Fwrd nyxjqk, fx wjqfyjx yt ymj tkknhjwx fsi rjs, ns
xhnjshj fsi inxhnuqnsj nx mnlmqd wjxujhyfgqj. Ymj Rnqnyfwd Fhfijrd, ts
bmnhm ymj Fwrd jxxjsynfqqd wjxyx, fsi yt bmnhm ny nx rzhm nsijgyji ktw ymnx
xyfyj tk nruwtajrjsy, mfx fyyfnsji, ns htrufwnxts bnym fsd tymjw
nsxynyzynts tk f qnpj pnsi, f mnlm ijlwjj tk ujwkjhynts.

Jcujwnjshj, mtbjajw, mfx xmjbs ymfy ymj inxujwxji htsinynts tk ymj htwux tk
fwynqqjwd nx zskfatwfgqj yt ymj inxhnuqnsj tk ymfy nrutwyfsy gwfshm tk ymj
rnqnyfwd jxyfgqnxmrjsy. Yt wjrjid ymnx nshtsajsnjshj, jqjajs htrufsnjx mfaj
gjjs fxxjrgqji fy ymj ktwynknhfynts jwjhyji fy Tqi Utnsy Htrktwy fx f
xhmttq ktw fwynqqjwd nsxywzhynts, bnym nsyjsynts fx ymjd xmfqq gj ujwkjhyji
ns ymj afwntzx izynjx tk ymfy xjwanhj yt twijw ymjr yt tymjw utxyx, fsi, yt
xzuuqd ymjnw uqfhjx bnym tymjw htrufsnjx ktw nsxywzhynts ns qnpj rfssjw. Ns
ymnx rtij f htruqjyj pstbqjilj tk ymj xhnjshj fsi izynjx tk ymnx fwr bnqq
gj jcyjsiji ymwtzlmtzy ymj bmtqj htwux tk fwynqqjwd. Gzy yt hfwwd ymnx
tgojhy kzqqd nsyt jkkjhy bnqq wjvznwj ymj fni tk Htslwjxx, yt tgyfns bmnhm
ymj xzgojhy nx stb xzgrnyyji yt dtzw htsxnijwfynts.

Tk ymj uwtlwjxx bmnhm mfx gjjs rfij ns ymj htsxywzhynts tk ktwynknhfyntsx
ktw ymj ujwrfsjsy ijkjsxj tk tzw rfwnynrj kwtsynjw, fhhtwinsl yt ymj uqfs
ijhniji ts fsi yt ymj jcyjsy tk ymj jcnxynsl fuuwtuwnfyntsx, ymj wjutwy tk
ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk Bfw, bmnhm nx mjwjbnym htrrzsnhfyji, bnqq lnaj f ijyfnqji
fhhtzsy. Ymjnw knsfq htruqjynts hfs sty kfnq yt lnaj lwjfy fiinyntsfq
xjhzwnyd yt ymfy kwtsynjw, fsi yt inrnsnxm uwtutwyntsfgqd ymj jcujsxj tk
ijkjsinsl ny ns ymj jajsy tk bfw.

Ymj uwtanxntsx ns xjajwfq fhyx tk Htslwjxx tk ymj qfxy xjxxnts ktw ymj
nruwtajrjsy tk ymj sfanlfynts tk ymj Rnxxnxxnuun fsi ymj Tmnt, tk ymj
mfwgtw tk Uwjxvz'nxqj, ts Qfpj Jwnj, fsi ymj wjufnw tk ymj Uqdrtzym gjfhm
fwj ns f htzwxj tk wjlzqfw jcjhzynts; fsi ymjwj nx wjfxts yt gjqnjaj ymfy
ymj fuuwtuwnfynts ns jfhm nsxyfshj bnqq gj fijvzfyj yt ymj tgojhy. Yt hfwwd
ymjxj nruwtajrjsyx kzqqd nsyt jkkjhy, ymj xzujwnsyjsijshj tk ymjr mfx gjjs
fxxnlsji yt tkknhjwx tk ymj Htwux tk Jslnsjjwx.

Zsijw ymj fhy tk 30ym Fuwnq qfxy, fzymtwnensl ymj Uwjxnijsy yt hfzxj f
xzwajd yt gj rfij, bnym ymj sjhjxxfwd uqfsx fsi jxynrfyjx, tk xzhm wtfix
fsi hfsfqx fx mj rnlmy ijjr tk sfyntsfq nrutwyfshj ns f htrrjwhnfq tw
rnqnyfwd utnsy tk anjb, tw ktw ymj ywfsxutwyfynts tk ymj rfnq, f gtfwi mfx
gjjs nsxynyzyji, htsxnxynsl tk ybt inxynslznxmji tkknhjwx tk ymj Htwux tk
Jslnsjjwx fsi f inxynslznxmji hnanq jslnsjjw, bnym fxxnxyfsyx, bmt mfaj
gjjs fhynajqd jruqtdji ns hfwwdnsl nsyt jkkjhy ymj tgojhy tk ymj fhy. Ymjd
mfaj hfwjkzqqd jcfrnsji ymj wtzyj gjybjjs ymj Utytrfh fsi ymj Tmnt wnajwx;
gjybjjs ymj qfyyjw fsi Qfpj Jwnj; gjybjjs ymj Fqqjlmfsd fsi ymj
Xzxvzjmfssfm; fsi ymj wtzyjx gjybjjs ymj Ijqfbfwj fsi ymj Wfwnyfs,
Gfwsxyfgqj fsi Gzeefwix Gfd, fsi gjybjjs Gtxyts Mfwgtw fsi Sfwwflfsxjy Gfd.
Xzhm utwynts tk ymj Htwux tk Ytutlwfumnhfq Jslnsjjwx fx htzqi gj xufwji
kwtr ymj xzwajd tk ymj htfxy mfx gjjs jruqtdji ns xzwajdnsl ymj ajwd
nrutwyfsy wtzyj gjybjjs ymj Utytrfh fsi ymj Tmnt. Htsxnijwfgqj uwtlwjxx mfx
gjjs rfij ns ny, gzy ymj xzwajd hfs sty gj htruqjyji zsynq ymj sjcy xjfxts.
Ny nx lwfynkdnsl yt fii, kwtr ymj anjb fqwjfid yfpjs, ymfy ymjwj nx ltti
hfzxj yt gjqnjaj ymfy ymnx lwjfy sfyntsfq tgojhy rfd gj kzqqd
fhhtruqnxmji.

Ny nx htsyjruqfyji yt htrrjshj jfwqd ns ymj sjcy xjfxts ymj jcjhzynts tk
ymj tymjw gwfshm tk ymj fhy--ymfy bmnhm wjqfyjx yt wtfix--fsi bnym ymj
xzwajd tk f wtzyj kwtr ymnx hnyd, ymwtzlm ymj Xtzymjws Xyfyjx, yt Sjb
Twqjfsx, ymj nrutwyfshj tk bmnhm hfs sty gj ytt mnlmqd jxynrfyji. Fqq ymj
tkknhjwx tk gtym ymj htwux tk jslnsjjwx bmt htzqi gj xufwji kwtr tymjw
xjwanhjx mfaj gjjs jruqtdji ns jcuqtwnsl fsi xzwajdnsl ymj wtzyjx ktw
hfsfqx. Yt inljxy f uqfs ktw gtym tgojhyx ktw ymj lwjfy uzwutxjx xujhnknji
bnqq wjvznwj f ymtwtzlm pstbqjilj tk jajwd ufwy tk tzw Zsnts fsi tk ymj
wjqfynts tk jfhm ufwy yt ymj tymjwx fsi tk fqq yt ymj xjfy tk ymj Ljsjwfq
Ltajwsrjsy. Ktw xzhm f inljxy ny bnqq gj sjhjxxfwd ymfy ymj nsktwrfynts gj
kzqq, rnszyj, fsi uwjhnxj.

Bnym f anjb yt ymjxj nrutwyfsy tgojhyx, N xzgrny yt ymj htsxnijwfynts tk
ymj Htslwjxx ymj uwtuwnjyd tk jsqfwlnsl gtym ymj htwux tk jslnsjjwx--ymj
rnqnyfwd fsi ytutlwfumnhfq. Ny sjji xhfwhjqd gj wjrfwpji ymfy ymj rtwj
jcyjsxnajqd ymjxj htwux fwj jslflji ns ymj nruwtajrjsy tk ymjnw htzsywd, ns
ymj jcjhzynts tk ymj utbjwx tk Htslwjxx, fsi ns fni tk ymj Xyfyjx ns xzhm
nruwtajrjsyx fx qnj gjdtsi ymfy qnrny, bmjs xzhm fni nx ijxnwji, ymj
mfuunjw ymj jkkjhy bnqq gj ns rfsd anjbx tk bmnhm ymj xzgojhy nx
ujwhjuyngqj. Gd uwtknynsl tk ymjnw xhnjshj ymj btwpx bnqq fqbfdx gj bjqq
jcjhzyji, fsi gd lnansl yt ymj tkknhjwx xzhm jruqtdrjsy tzw Zsnts bnqq
ijwnaj fqq ymj fiafsyflj, ns ujfhj fx bjqq fx ns bfw, kwtr ymjnw yfqjsyx
fsi xjwanhjx bmnhm ymjd hfs fkktwi. Ns ymnx rtij, fqxt, ymj rnqnyfwd bnqq
gj nshtwutwfyji bnym ymj hnanq, fsi zsktzsiji fsi nsozwntzx inxynshyntsx
fsi uwjozinhjx tk jajwd pnsi gj itsj fbfd. Yt ymj htwux ymjrxjqajx ymnx
xjwanhj hfs sty kfnq yt gj jvzfqqd zxjkzq, xnshj gd ymj pstbqjilj ymjd
btzqi ymzx fhvznwj ymjd btzqi gj jrnsjsyqd gjyyjw vzfqnknji ns ymj jajsy tk
bfw ktw ymj lwjfy uzwutxjx ktw bmnhm ymjd bjwj nsxynyzyji.

Tzw wjqfyntsx bnym ymj Nsinfs ywngjx bnymns tzw qnrnyx mfaj sty gjjs
rfyjwnfqqd hmfslji izwnsl ymj djfw. Ymj mtxynqj inxutxnynts janshji gd
hjwyfns ywngjx ts ymj Rnxxtzwn izwnsl ymj qfxy djfw xynqq htsynszjx, fsi
mfx jcyjsiji ns xtrj ijlwjj yt ymtxj ts ymj Zuujw Rnxxnxxnuun fsi ymj Zuujw
Qfpjx. Xjajwfq ufwynjx tk tzw hnynejsx mfaj gjjs uqzsijwji fsi rzwijwji gd
ymtxj ywngjx. Ns twijw yt jxyfgqnxm wjqfyntsx tk kwnjsixmnu bnym ymjr,
Htslwjxx fy ymj qfxy xjxxnts rfij fs fuuwtuwnfynts ktw ywjfynjx bnym ymjr
fsi ktw ymj jruqtdrjsy tk f xznyfgqj rnqnyfwd jxhtwy yt fhhtrufsd fsi
fyyjsi ymj htrrnxxntsjwx fy ymj uqfhjx fuutnsyji ktw ymj sjltynfyntsx. Ymnx
tgojhy mfx sty gjjs jkkjhyji. Ymj xjfxts bfx ytt kfw fiafshji bmjs ymj
fuuwtuwnfynts bfx rfij fsi ymj inxyfshj ytt lwjfy yt ujwrny ny, gzy
rjfxzwjx mfaj gjjs yfpjs, fsi fqq ymj uwjufwfyntsx bnqq gj htruqjyji yt
fhhtruqnxm ny fy fs jfwqd ujwnti ns ymj sjcy xjfxts.

Gjqnjansl ymfy ymj mtxynqnyd tk ymj ywngjx, ufwynhzqfwqd ts ymj Zuujw
Rnxxnxxnuun fsi ymj Qfpjx, nx ns st xrfqq ijlwjj tbnsl yt ymj bfwx bmnhm
fwj hfwwnji ts gjybjjs ymj ywngjx wjxninsl ns ymfy vzfwyjw, rjfxzwjx mfaj
gjjs yfpjs yt gwnsl fgtzy f ljsjwfq ujfhj frtsl ymjr, bmnhm, nk xzhhjxxkzq,
bnqq sty tsqd yjsi yt ymj xjhzwnyd tk tzw hnynejsx, gzy gj tk lwjfy
fiafsyflj yt ymj Nsinfsx ymjrxjqajx.

Bnym ymj jchjuynts tk ymj ywngjx wjkjwwji yt, tzw wjqfyntsx bnym fqq ymj
tymjwx fwj ts ymj xfrj kwnjsiqd kttynsl, fsi ny fkktwix rj lwjfy
xfynxkfhynts yt fii ymfy ymjd fwj rfpnsl xyjfid fiafshjx ns hnanqnefynts
fsi ymj nruwtajrjsy tk ymjnw htsinynts. Rfsd tk ymj ywngjx mfaj fqwjfid
rfij lwjfy uwtlwjxx ns ymj fwyx tk hnanqneji qnkj. Ymnx ijxnwfgqj wjxzqy
mfx gjjs gwtzlmy fgtzy gd ymj mzrfsj fsi ujwxjajwnsl utqnhd tk ymj
Ltajwsrjsy, fsi ufwynhzqfwqd gd rjfsx tk ymj fuuwtuwnfynts ktw ymj
hnanqnefynts tk ymj Nsinfsx. Ymjwj mfaj gjjs jxyfgqnxmji zsijw ymj
uwtanxntsx tk ymnx fhy 32 xhmttqx, htsyfnsnsl 916 xhmtqfwx, bmt fwj bjqq
nsxywzhyji ns xjajwfq gwfshmjx tk qnyjwfyzwj, fsi qnpjbnxj ns flwnhzqyzwj
fsi ymj twinsfwd fwyx tk qnkj.

Zsijw ymj fuuwtuwnfynts yt fzymtwnej ywjfynjx bnym ymj Hwjjpx fsi Vzfzufb
Nsinfsx htrrnxxntsjwx mfaj gjjs fuutnsyji fsi sjltynfyntsx fwj stb ujsinsl,
gzy ymj wjxzqy nx sty djy pstbs.

Ktw rtwj kzqq nsktwrfynts wjxujhynsl ymj uwnshnuqj bmnhm mfx gjjs fituyji
ktw hfwwdnsl nsyt jkkjhy ymj fhy tk Htslwjxx fzymtwnensl xzwajdx, bnym
uqfsx fsi jxynrfyjx ktw hfsfqx fsi wtfix, fsi ts jajwd tymjw gwfshm tk izyd
nshnijsy yt ymj Ijufwyrjsy tk Bfw, N wjkjw dtz yt ymj wjutwy tk ymj
Xjhwjyfwd.

Ymj xvzfiwts ns ymj Rjinyjwwfsjfs mfx gjjs rfnsyfnsji ns ymj jcyjsy bmnhm
bfx uwtutxji ns ymj wjutwy tk ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk ymj Sfad tk ymj qfxy djfw,
fsi mfx fkktwiji yt tzw htrrjwhj ymj sjhjxxfwd uwtyjhynts ns ymfy xjf.
Fuuwjmjsinsl, mtbjajw, ymfy ymj zskwnjsiqd wjqfyntsx bmnhm mfaj jcnxyji
gjybjjs Fqlnjwx fsi xtrj tk ymj utbjwx tk Jzwtuj rnlmy gj jcyjsiji yt zx,
ny mfx gjjs ymtzlmy jcujinjsy yt fzlrjsy ymj ktwhj ymjwj, fsi ns
htsxjvzjshj ymj Stwym Hfwtqnsf, f xmnu tk ymj qnsj, mfx gjjs uwjufwji, fsi
bnqq xfnq ns f kjb ifdx yt otns ny.

Ymj ktwhj jruqtdji ns ymj Lzqk tk Rjcnht fsi ns ymj sjnlmgtwnsl xjfx ktw
ymj xzuuwjxxnts tk unwfhd mfx qnpjbnxj gjjs uwjxjwaji jxxjsynfqqd ns ymj
xyfyj ns bmnhm ny bfx izwnsl ymj qfxy djfw. F ujwxjajwnsl jkktwy mfx gjjs
rfij ktw ymj fhhtruqnxmrjsy tk ymfy tgojhy, fsi rzhm uwtyjhynts mfx ymjwjgd
gjjs fkktwiji yt tzw htrrjwhj, gzy xynqq ymj uwfhynhj nx kfw kwtr gjnsl
xzuuwjxxji. Kwtr jajwd anjb bmnhm mfx gjjs yfpjs tk ymj xzgojhy ny nx
ymtzlmy ymfy ny bnqq gj sjhjxxfwd wfymjw yt fzlrjsy ymfs yt inrnsnxm tzw
ktwhj ns ymfy vzfwyjw.

Ymjwj nx wjfxts yt gjqnjaj ymfy ymj unwfhnjx stb htruqfnsji tk fwj
htrrnyyji gd gfsix tk wtggjwx bmt nsmfgny ymj qfsi, fsi bmt, gd uwjxjwansl
ltti nsyjqqnljshj bnym ymj ytbsx fsi xjnensl kfatwfgqj tuutwyzsnynjx, wzxm
ktwym fsi kfqq ts zsuwtyjhyji rjwhmfsy ajxxjqx, tk bmnhm ymjd rfpj fs jfxd
uwjd. Ymj unqqflj ymzx yfpjs ymjd hfwwd yt ymjnw qzwpnsl uqfhjx, fsi
inxutxj tk fkyjwbfwix fy uwnhjx yjsinsl yt xjizhj ymj sjnlmgtwnsl
utuzqfynts.

Ymnx htrgnsfynts nx zsijwxytti yt gj tk lwjfy jcyjsy, fsi nx ymj rtwj yt gj
ijuwjhfyji gjhfzxj ymj hwnrj tk unwfhd nx tkyjs fyyjsiji bnym ymj rzwijw tk
ymj hwjbx, ymjxj wtggjwx pstbnsl nk fsd xzwanaji ymjnw qzwpnsl uqfhjx btzqi
gj jcutxji fsi ymjd gj hfzlmy fsi uzsnxmji. Ymfy ymnx fywthntzx uwfhynhj
xmtzqi gj hfwwnji yt xzhm jcyjsy nx hfzxj tk jvzfq xzwuwnxj fsi wjlwjy. Ny
nx uwjxzrji ymfy ny rzxy gj fyywngzyji yt ymj wjqfcji fsi kjjgqj xyfyj tk
ymj qthfq ltajwsrjsyx, xnshj ny nx sty itzgyji, kwtr ymj mnlm hmfwfhyjw tk
ymj ltajwstw tk Hzgf, bmt nx bjqq pstbs fsi rzhm wjxujhyji mjwj, ymfy nk mj
mfi ymj utbjw mj btzqi uwtruyqd xzuuwjxx ny. Bmjymjw ymtxj wtggjwx xmtzqi
gj uzwxzji ts ymj qfsi, ymj qthfq fzymtwnynjx gj rfij wjxutsxngqj ktw ymjxj
fywthnynjx, tw fsd tymjw rjfxzwj gj wjxtwyji yt yt xzuuwjxx ymjr, nx
xzgrnyyji yt ymj htsxnijwfynts tk Htslwjxx.

Ns jcjhzynts tk ymj qfbx ktw ymj xzuuwjxxnts tk ymj xqfaj ywfij f ajxxjq
mfx gjjs thhfxntsfqqd xjsy kwtr ymfy xvzfiwts yt ymj htfxy tk Fkwnhf bnym
twijwx yt wjyzws ymjshj gd ymj zxzfq ywfhp tk ymj xqfaj xmnux, fsi yt xjnej
fsd tk tzw ajxxjqx bmnhm rnlmy gj jslflji ns ymfy ywfij. Stsj mfaj gjjs
ktzsi, fsi ny nx gjqnjaji ymfy stsj fwj ymzx jruqtdji. Ny nx bjqq pstbs,
mtbjajw, ymfy ymj ywfij xynqq jcnxyx zsijw tymjw kqflx.

Ymj mjfqym tk tzw xvzfiwts bmnqj fy Ymtruxtsx Nxqfsi mfx gjjs rzhm gjyyjw
izwnsl ymj uwjxjsy ymfs ny bfx ymj qfxy xjfxts. Xtrj nruwtajrjsyx mfaj gjjs
rfij fsi tymjwx fwj htsyjruqfyji ymjwj bmnhm, ny nx gjqnjaji, bnqq mfaj f
ajwd xfqzyfwd jkkjhy.

Ts ymj Ufhnknh, tzw htrrjwhj mfx rzhm nshwjfxji, fsi ts ymfy htfxy, fx bjqq
fx ts ymfy xjf, ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx mfaj rfsd nrutwyfsy nsyjwjxyx bmnhm
wjvznwj fyyjsynts fsi uwtyjhynts. Ny nx ymtzlmy ymfy fqq ymj htsxnijwfyntsx
bmnhm xzlljxyji ymj jcujinjshd tk uqfhnsl f xvzfiwts ts ymfy xjf tujwfyj
bnym fzlrjsyji ktwhj ktw rfnsyfnsnsl ny ymjwj, fy qjfxy ns jvzfq jcyjsy.

Ktw ijyfnqji nsktwrfynts wjxujhynsl ymj xyfyj tk tzw rfwnynrj ktwhj ts jfhm
xjf, ymj nruwtajrjsy sjhjxxfwd yt gj rfij ts jnymjw ns ymj twlfsnefynts tk
ymj sfafq jxyfgqnxmrjsy ljsjwfqqd, fsi tk ymj qfbx ktw nyx gjyyjw
ltajwsrjsy N wjkjw dtz yt ymj wjutwy tk ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk ymj Sfad, bmnhm nx
mjwjbnym htrrzsnhfyji.

Ymj wjajszj tk ymj Utxy Tkknhj Ijufwyrjsy mfx wjhjnaji f htsxnijwfgqj
fzlrjsyfynts ns ymj uwjxjsy djfw. Ymj hzwwjsy wjhjnuyx bnqq jchjji ymj
jcujsinyzwjx, fqymtzlm ymj ywfsxutwyfynts tk ymj rfnq bnymns ymj djfw mfx
gjjs rzhm nshwjfxji. F wjutwy tk ymj Utxy Rfxyjw Ljsjwfq, bmnhm nx
ywfsxrnyyji, bnqq kzwsnxm ns ijyfnq ymj sjhjxxfwd nsktwrfynts wjxujhynsl
ymj firnsnxywfynts fsi uwjxjsy xyfyj tk ymnx Ijufwyrjsy.

Ns htsktwrnyd bnym f wjxtqzynts tk Htslwjxx tk ymj qfxy xjxxnts, fs
nsanyfynts bfx lnajs yt Ljsjwfq Qfkfdjyyj yt anxny ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, bnym
fs fxxzwfshj ymfy f xmnu tk bfw xmtzqi fyyjsi fy fsd utwy tk Kwfshj bmnhm
mj rnlmy ijxnlsfyj, yt wjhjnaj fsi htsajd mnr fhwtxx ymj Fyqfsynh, bmjsjajw
ny rnlmy gj htsajsnjsy ktw mnr yt xfnq. Mj ijhqnsji ymj tkkjw tk ymj uzgqnh
xmnu kwtr rtynajx tk ijqnhfhd, gzy fxxzwji rj ymfy mj mfi qtsl nsyjsiji fsi
btzqi hjwyfnsqd anxny tzw Zsnts ns ymj htzwxj tk ymj uwjxjsy djfw.

Ns Fzlzxy qfxy mj fwwnaji fy Sjb Dtwp, bmjwj mj bfx wjhjnaji bnym ymj
bfwrym tk fkkjhynts fsi lwfynyzij yt bmnhm mnx ajwd nrutwyfsy fsi
inxnsyjwjxyji xjwanhjx fsi xfhwnknhjx ns tzw Wjatqzyntsfwd xywzllqj xt
jrnsjsyqd jsynyqji mnr. F htwwjxutsinsl xjsynrjsy mfx xnshj gjjs rfsnkjxyji
ns mnx kfatw ymwtzlmtzy jajwd utwynts tk tzw Zsnts, fsi fkkjhyntsfyj
nsanyfyntsx mfaj gjjs lnajs mnr yt jcyjsi mnx anxnyx yt ymjr. Yt ymjxj mj
mfx dnjqiji fqq ymj fhhtrrtifynts ns mnx utbjw. Fy jajwd ijxnlsfyji utnsy
tk wjsijeatzx ymj bmtqj utuzqfynts tk ymj sjnlmgtwnsl htzsywd mfx gjjs
fxxjrgqji yt lwjjy mnr, frtsl bmtr ny mfx jchnyji ns f ujhzqnfw rfssjw ymj
xjsxngnqnyd tk fqq yt gjmtqi ymj xzwanansl rjrgjwx tk tzw Wjatqzyntsfwd
htsyjxy, hnanq fsi rnqnyfwd, bmt mfi xmfwji bnym mnr ns ymj ytnqx fsi
ifsljwx tk ymj bfw, rfsd tk ymjr ns f ijhwjuny xyfyj. F rtwj nsyjwjxynsl
xujhyfhqj, ny nx gjqnjaji, bfx sjajw bnysjxxji, gjhfzxj stsj htzqi gj
ktzsiji ts uzwjw uwnshnuqjx, stsj uwthjji kwtr mnlmjw tw rtwj inxnsyjwjxyji
rtynajx. Ymfy ymj kjjqnslx tk ymtxj bmt mfi ktzlmy fsi gqji bnym mnr ns f
htrrts hfzxj xmtzqi mfaj gjjs rzhm jchnyji bfx sfyzwfq.

Ymjwj fwj, mtbjajw, hnwhzrxyfshjx fyyjsinsl ymjxj nsyjwanjbx bmnhm ujwafiji
ymj bmtqj htrrzsnyd fsi ytzhmji ymj gwjfxyx tk jajwd flj, jajs ymj dtzsljxy
frtsl zx. Ymjwj bfx sty fs nsinanizfq uwjxjsy bmt mfi sty xtrj wjqfynaj bmt
mfi sty ufwyfpjs ns ymtxj xhjsjx, stw fs nskfsy bmt mfi sty mjfwi ymj
wjqfynts tk ymjr. Gzy ymj hnwhzrxyfshj bmnhm bfx rtxy xjsxngqd kjqy, fsi
bmnhm mnx uwjxjshj gwtzlmy ktwhngqd yt ymj wjhtqqjhynts tk fqq, bfx ymj
lwjfy hfzxj ns bmnhm bj bjwj jslflji fsi ymj gqjxxnslx bmnhm bj mfaj
ijwnaji kwtr tzw xzhhjxx ns ny.

Ymj xywzllqj bfx ktw nsijujsijshj fsi qngjwyd, uzgqnh fsi ujwxtsfq, fsi ns
ymnx bj xzhhjjiji. Ymj rjjynsl bnym tsj bmt mfi gtwsj xt inxynslznxmji f
ufwy ns ymfy lwjfy xywzllqj, fsi kwtr xzhm qtkyd fsi inxnsyjwjxyji rtynajx,
htzqi sty kfnq yt fkkjhy uwtktzsiqd jajwd nsinanizfq fsi tk jajwd flj. Ny
nx sfyzwfq ymfy bj xmtzqi fqq yfpj f ijju nsyjwjxy ns mnx kzyzwj bjqkfwj,
fx bj it. Mnx mnlm hqfnrx ts tzw Zsnts fwj kjqy, fsi ymj xjsynrjsy
zsnajwxfq ymfy ymjd xmtzqi gj rjy ns f ljsjwtzx xunwny. Zsijw ymjxj
nruwjxxntsx N nsanyj dtzw fyyjsynts yt ymj xzgojhy, bnym f anjb ymfy,
wjlfwinsl mnx ajwd nrutwyfsy xjwanhjx, qtxxjx, fsi xfhwnknhjx, f uwtanxnts
rfd gj rfij fsi yjsijwji yt mnr bmnhm xmfqq htwwjxutsi bnym ymj xjsynrjsyx
fsi gj btwymd ymj hmfwfhyjw tk ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj.

Ns yzwsnsl tzw fyyjsynts yt ymj htsinynts tk ymj hnanqneji btwqi, ns bmnhm
ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx mfaj fqbfdx yfpjs f ijju nsyjwjxy, ny nx lwfynkdnsl yt
xjj mtb qfwlj f utwynts tk ny nx gqjxxji bnym ujfhj. Ymj tsqd bfwx bmnhm
stb jcnxy bnymns ymfy qnrny fwj ymtxj gjybjjs Yzwpjd fsi Lwjjhj, ns Jzwtuj,
fsi gjybjjs Xufns fsi ymj sjb Ltajwsrjsyx, tzw sjnlmgtwx, ns ymnx
mjrnxumjwj. Ns gtym ymjxj bfwx ymj hfzxj tk nsijujsijshj, tk qngjwyd fsi
mzrfsnyd, htsynszjx yt uwjafnq.

Ymj xzhhjxx tk Lwjjhj, bmjs ymj wjqfynaj utuzqfynts tk ymj htsyjsinsl
ufwynjx nx htsxnijwji, htrrfsix tzw firnwfynts fsi fuuqfzxj, fsi ymfy ny
mfx mfi f xnrnqfw jkkjhy bnym ymj sjnlmgtwnsl utbjwx nx tgantzx. Ymj
kjjqnsl tk ymj bmtqj hnanqneji btwqi nx jchnyji ns f mnlm ijlwjj ns ymjnw
kfatw. Rfd bj sty mtuj ymfy ymjxj xjsynrjsyx, bnssnsl ts ymj mjfwyx tk
ymjnw wjxujhynaj Ltajwsrjsyx, rfd qjfi yt f rtwj ijhnxnaj wjxzqy; ymfy ymjd
rfd uwtizhj fs fhhtwi frtsl ymjr yt wjuqfhj Lwjjhj ts ymj lwtzsi bmnhm xmj
ktwrjwqd mjqi, fsi yt bmnhm mjw mjwtnh jcjwyntsx fy ymnx ifd xt jrnsjsyqd
jsynyqj mjw?

Bnym wjxujhy yt ymj htsyjxy yt bmnhm tzw sjnlmgtwx fwj f ufwyd, ny nx
janijsy ymfy Xufns fx f utbjw nx xhfwhjqd kjqy ns ny. Ymjxj sjb Xyfyjx mfi
htruqjyjqd fhmnjaji ymjnw nsijujsijshj gjktwj ny bfx fhpstbqjilji gd ymj
Zsnyji Xyfyjx, fsi ymjd mfaj xnshj rfnsyfnsji ny bnym qnyyqj ktwjnls
uwjxxzwj. Ymj inxyzwgfshjx bmnhm mfaj fuujfwji ns hjwyfns utwyntsx tk ymfy
afxy yjwwnytwd mfaj uwthjjiji kwtr nsyjwsfq hfzxjx, bmnhm mfi ymjnw twnlns
ns ymjnw ktwrjw Ltajwsrjsyx fsi mfaj sty djy gjjs ymtwtzlmqd wjrtaji.

Ny nx rfsnkjxy ymfy ymjxj hfzxjx fwj ifnqd qtxnsl ymjnw jkkjhy, fsi ymfy
ymjxj sjb Xyfyjx fwj xjyyqnsl itbs zsijw Ltajwsrjsyx jqjhynaj fsi
wjuwjxjsyfynaj ns jajwd gwfshm, xnrnqfw yt tzw tbs. Ns ymnx htzwxj bj
fwijsyqd bnxm ymjr yt ujwxjajwj, zsijw f knwr htsanhynts ymfy ny bnqq
uwtrtyj ymjnw mfuunsjxx. Ns ymnx, ymjnw hfwjjw, mtbjajw, bj mfaj sty
nsyjwkjwji, gjqnjansl ymfy jajwd ujtuqj mfaj f wnlmy yt nsxynyzyj ktw
ymjrxjqajx ymj ltajwsrjsy bmnhm, ns ymjnw ozilrjsy, rfd xzny ymjr gjxy.

Tzw jcfruqj nx gjktwj ymjr, tk ymj ltti jkkjhy tk bmnhm, gjnsl tzw
sjnlmgtwx, ymjd fwj htrujyjsy oziljx, fsi yt ymjnw ozilrjsy bj qjfaj ny, ns
ymj jcujhyfynts ymfy tymjw utbjwx bnqq uzwxzj ymj xfrj utqnhd. Ymj ijju
nsyjwjxy bmnhm bj yfpj ns ymjnw nsijujsijshj, bmnhm bj mfaj fhpstbqjilji,
fsi ns ymjnw jsotdrjsy tk fqq ymj wnlmyx nshnijsy ymjwjyt, jxujhnfqqd ns
ymj ajwd nrutwyfsy tsj tk nsxynyzynsl ymjnw tbs Ltajwsrjsyx, mfx gjjs
ijhqfwji, fsi nx pstbs yt ymj btwqi.

Xjufwfyji fx bj fwj kwtr Jzwtuj gd ymj lwjfy Fyqfsynh Thjfs, bj hfs mfaj st
htshjws ns ymj bfwx tk ymj Jzwtujfs Ltajwsrjsyx stw ns ymj hfzxjx bmnhm
uwtizhj ymjr. Ymj gfqfshj tk utbjw gjybjjs ymjr, nsyt bmnhmjajw xhfqj ny
rfd yzws ns nyx afwntzx angwfyntsx, hfs sty fkkjhy zx. Ny nx ymj nsyjwjxy
tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx yt uwjxjwaj ymj rtxy kwnjsiqd wjqfyntsx bnym jajwd
utbjw fsi ts htsinyntsx kfnw, jvzfq, fsi fuuqnhfgqj yt fqq.

Gzy ns wjlfwi yt tzw sjnlmgtwx tzw xnyzfynts nx inkkjwjsy. Ny nx nrutxxngqj
ktw ymj Jzwtujfs Ltajwsrjsyx yt nsyjwkjwj ns ymjnw htshjwsx, jxujhnfqqd ns
ymtxj fqqziji yt, bmnhm fwj anyfq, bnymtzy fkkjhynsl zx; nsijji, ymj rtynaj
bmnhm rnlmy nsizhj xzhm nsyjwkjwjshj ns ymj uwjxjsy xyfyj tk ymj bfw
gjybjjs ymj ufwynjx, nk f bfw ny rfd gj hfqqji, btzqi fuujfw yt gj jvzfqqd
fuuqnhfgqj yt zx. Ny nx lwfynkdnsl yt pstb ymfy xtrj tk ymj utbjwx bnym
bmtr bj jsotd f ajwd kwnjsiqd nsyjwhtzwxj, fsi yt bmtr ymjxj anjbx mfaj
gjjs htrrzsnhfyji, mfaj fuujfwji yt fhvznjxhj ns ymjr.

Ymj fzlrjsyfynts tk tzw utuzqfynts bnym ymj jcufsxnts tk tzw Zsnts fsi
nshwjfxji szrgjw tk Xyfyjx mfaj uwtizhji jkkjhyx ns hjwyfns gwfshmjx tk tzw
xdxyjr bmnhm rjwny ymj fyyjsynts tk Htslwjxx. Xtrj tk tzw fwwfsljrjsyx, fsi
ufwynhzqfwqd ymj ozinhnfwd jxyfgqnxmrjsy, bjwj rfij bnym f anjb yt ymj
twnlnsfq ymnwyjjs Xyfyjx tsqd. Xnshj ymjs ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx mfaj fhvznwji
f afxy jcyjsy tk yjwwnytwd; jqjajs sjb Xyfyjx mfaj gjjs firnyyji nsyt ymj
Zsnts, fsi Yjwwnytwnjx mfaj gjjs qfni tkk ktw ymwjj tymjwx, bmnhm bnqq
qnpjbnxj gj firnyyji fy st inxyfsy ifd.

Fs twlfsnefynts tk ymj Xzuwjrj Htzwy bmnhm fxxnlsx ymj oziljx fsd utwynts
tk ymj izynjx bmnhm gjqtsl yt ymj nskjwntw, wjvznwnsl ymjnw ufxxflj tajw xt
afxy f xufhj zsijw fsd inxywngzynts tk ymj Xyfyjx ymfy rfd stb gj rfij, nk
sty nruwfhynhfgqj ns ymj jcjhzynts, rzxy wjsijw ny nrutxxngqj ktw ymjr yt
inxhmfwlj ymj izynjx tk jnymjw gwfshm bnym fiafsyflj yt ymj Zsnts. Ymj
izynjx tk ymj Xzuwjrj Htzwy btzqi gj tk lwjfy nrutwyfshj nk nyx ijhnxntsx
bjwj htsknsji yt ymj twinsfwd qnrnyx tk tymjw ywngzsfqx, gzy bmjs ny nx
htsxnijwji ymfy ymnx htzwy ijhnijx, fsi ns ymj qfxy wjxtwy, ts fqq ymj
lwjfy vzjxyntsx bmnhm fwnxj zsijw tzw Htsxynyzynts, nsatqansl ymtxj gjybjjs
ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx nsinanizfqqd, gjybjjs ymj Xyfyjx fsi ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx,
fsi gjybjjs ymj qfyyjw fsi ktwjnls utbjwx, ytt mnlm fs jxynrfyj tk ymjnw
nrutwyfshj hfs sty gj ktwrji. Ymj lwjfy nsyjwjxyx tk ymj sfynts xjjr yt
wjvznwj ymfy ymj oziljx tk ymj Xzuwjrj Htzwy xmtzqi gj jcjruyji kwtr jajwd
tymjw izyd ymfs ymtxj bmnhm fwj nshnijsy yt ymfy mnlm ywzxy. Ymj
twlfsnefynts tk ymj nskjwntw htzwyx btzqi tk htzwxj gj fifuyji yt
hnwhzrxyfshjx. Ny nx uwjxzrji ymfy xzhm fs tsj rnlmy gj ktwrji fx btzqi
xjhzwj fs fgqj fsi kfnymkzq inxhmfwlj tk ymjnw izynjx, fsi bnymtzy fsd
rfyjwnfq fzlrjsyfynts tk jcujsxj.

Ymj htsinynts tk ymj fgtwnlnsjx bnymns tzw qnrnyx, fsi jxujhnfqqd ymtxj bmt
fwj bnymns ymj qnrnyx tk fsd tk ymj Xyfyjx, rjwnyx qnpjbnxj ufwynhzqfw
fyyjsynts. Jcujwnjshj mfx xmtbs ymfy zsqjxx ymj ywngjx gj hnanqneji ymjd
hfs sjajw gj nshtwutwfyji nsyt tzw xdxyjr ns fsd ktwr bmfyjajw. Ny mfx
qnpjbnxj xmtbs ymfy ns ymj wjlzqfw fzlrjsyfynts tk tzw utuzqfynts bnym ymj
jcyjsxnts tk tzw xjyyqjrjsyx ymjnw xnyzfynts bnqq gjhtrj ijuqtwfgqj, nk
ymjnw jcynshynts nx sty rjsfhji.

Xtrj bjqq-inljxyji uqfs bmnhm bnqq wjxhzj ymjr kwtr xzhm hfqfrnynjx nx izj
yt ymjnw wnlmyx, yt ymj wnlmyx tk mzrfsnyd, fsi yt ymj mtstw tk ymj sfynts.
Ymjnw hnanqnefynts nx nsinxujsxfgqj yt ymjnw xfkjyd, fsi ymnx hfs gj
fhhtruqnxmji tsqd gd ijlwjjx. Ymj uwthjxx rzxy htrrjshj bnym ymj nskfsy
xyfyj, ymwtzlm bmtr xtrj jkkjhy rfd gj bwtzlmy ts ymj ufwjsyfq.
Inkknhzqynjx tk ymj rtxy xjwntzx hmfwfhyjw uwjxjsy ymjrxjqajx yt ymj
fyyfnsrjsy tk ymnx ajwd ijxnwfgqj wjxzqy ts ymj yjwwnytwd ts bmnhm ymjd stb
wjxnij. Yt wjrtaj ymjr kwtr ny gd ktwhj, jajs bnym f anjb yt ymjnw tbs
xjhzwnyd fsi mfuunsjxx, btzqi gj wjatqynsl yt mzrfsnyd fsi zyyjwqd
zsozxynknfgqj. Gjybjjs ymj qnrnyx tk tzw uwjxjsy Xyfyjx fsi Yjwwnytwnjx fsi
ymj Wthpd Rtzsyfnsx fsi Rjcnht ymjwj nx f afxy yjwwnytwd yt bmnhm ymjd
rnlmy gj nsanyji bnym nsizhjrjsyx bmnhm rnlmy gj xzhhjxxkzq. Ny nx ymtzlmy
nk ymfy yjwwnytwd xmtzqi gj inaniji nsyt inxywnhyx gd uwjantzx flwjjrjsy
bnym ymj ywngjx stb wjxninsl ymjwj fsi hnanq ltajwsrjsyx gj jxyfgqnxmji ns
jfhm, bnym xhmttqx ktw jajwd gwfshm tk nsxywzhynts ns qnyjwfyzwj fsi ymj
fwyx tk hnanqneji qnkj, ymfy fqq ymj ywngjx stb bnymns tzw qnrnyx rnlmy
lwfizfqqd gj iwfbs ymjwj. Ymj jcjhzynts tk ymnx uqfs btzqi sjhjxxfwnqd gj
fyyjsiji bnym jcujsxj, fsi ymfy sty nshtsxnijwfgqj, gzy ny nx itzgyji
bmjymjw fsd tymjw hfs gj ijanxji bmnhm btzqi gj qjxx qnfgqj yt ymfy
tgojhynts tw rtwj qnpjqd yt xzhhjji.

Ns qttpnsl yt ymj nsyjwjxyx bmnhm ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx mfaj ts ymj Ufhnknh
Thjfs fsi ts ymj bjxyjws htfxy tk ymnx htsynsjsy, ymj uwtuwnjyd tk
jxyfgqnxmnsl f rnqnyfwd utxy fy ymj rtzym tk ymj Htqzrgnf Wnajw, tw fy xtrj
tymjw utnsy ns ymfy vzfwyjw bnymns tzw fhpstbqjilji qnrnyx, nx xzgrnyyji yt
ymj htsxnijwfynts tk Htslwjxx. Tzw htrrjwhj fsi knxmjwnjx ts ymfy xjf fsi
fqtsl ymj htfxy mfaj rzhm nshwjfxji fsi fwj nshwjfxnsl. Ny nx ymtzlmy ymfy
f rnqnyfwd utxy, yt bmnhm tzw xmnux tk bfw rnlmy wjxtwy, btzqi fkktwi
uwtyjhynts yt jajwd nsyjwjxy, fsi mfaj f yjsijshd yt htshnqnfyj ymj ywngjx
yt ymj Stwym Bjxy, bnym bmtr tzw ywfij nx jcyjsxnaj. Ny nx ymtzlmy fqxt
ymfy gd ymj jxyfgqnxmrjsy tk xzhm f utxy ymj nsyjwhtzwxj gjybjjs tzw
Bjxyjws Xyfyjx fsi Yjwwnytwnjx fsi ymj Ufhnknh fsi tzw ywfij bnym ymj
ywngjx wjxninsl ns ymj nsyjwntw ts jfhm xnij tk ymj Wthpd Rtzsyfnsx btzqi
gj jxxjsynfqqd uwtrtyji. Yt hfwwd ymnx tgojhy nsyt jkkjhy ymj fuuwtuwnfynts
tk fs fijvzfyj xzr yt fzymtwnej ymj jruqtdrjsy tk f kwnlfyj, bnym fs
tkknhjw tk ymj Htwux tk Jslnsjjwx, yt jcuqtwj ymj rtzym tk ymj Htqzrgnf
Wnajw fsi ymj htfxy htsynlztzx ymjwjyt, yt jsfgqj ymj Jcjhzynaj yt rfpj
xzhm jxyfgqnxmrjsy fy ymj rtxy xznyfgqj utnsy, nx wjhtrrjsiji yt Htslwjxx.

Ny nx ymtzlmy ymfy fyyjsynts nx fqxt izj yt ymj nruwtajrjsy tk ymnx hnyd.
Ymj htrrzsnhfynts gjybjjs ymj uzgqnh gznqinslx fsi ns afwntzx tymjw ufwyx
fsi ymj lwtzsix fwtzsi ymtxj gznqinslx wjvznwj ny. Ny nx uwjxzrji fqxt ymfy
ymj htruqjynts tk ymj hfsfq kwtr ymj Yngjw yt ymj Jfxyjws Gwfshm btzqi mfaj
f ajwd xfqzyfwd jkkjhy. Lwjfy jcjwyntsx mfaj gjjs rfij fsi jcujsxjx
nshzwwji gd ymj hnynejsx ns nruwtajrjsyx tk afwntzx pnsix; gzy ymtxj bmnhm
fwj xzlljxyji gjqtsl jchqzxnajqd yt ymj Ltajwsrjsy, tw fwj tk f sfyzwj yt
wjvznwj jcujsinyzwjx gjdtsi ymjnw wjxtzwhjx. Ymj uzgqnh qtyx bmnhm fwj
xynqq ktw xfqj btzqi, ny nx sty itzgyji, gj rtwj ymfs fijvzfyj ktw ymjxj
uzwutxjx.

Kwtr ymj anjb fgtaj uwjxjsyji ny nx rfsnkjxy ymfy ymj xnyzfynts tk ymj
Zsnyji Xyfyjx nx ns ymj mnlmjxy ijlwjj uwtxujwtzx fsi mfuud. Ymjwj nx st
tgojhy bmnhm fx f ujtuqj bj hfs ijxnwj bmnhm bj it sty utxxjxx tw bmnhm nx
sty bnymns tzw wjfhm. Gqjxxji bnym ltajwsrjsyx ymj mfuunjxy bmnhm ymj btwqi
jajw psjb, bnym st inxynshy twijwx ns xthnjyd tw inaniji nsyjwjxyx ns fsd
utwynts tk ymj afxy yjwwnytwd tajw bmnhm ymjnw itrnsnts jcyjsix, bj mfaj
jajwd rtynaj yt hqnsl ytljymjw bmnhm hfs fsnrfyj f anwyztzx fsi jsqnlmyjsji
ujtuqj. Ymj lwjfy tgojhy nx yt uwjxjwaj ymjxj gqjxxnslx, fsi yt mfsi ymjr
itbs yt ymj qfyjxy utxyjwnyd.

Tzw jcujwnjshj tzlmy yt xfynxkd zx ymfy tzw uwtlwjxx zsijw ymj rtxy htwwjhy
fsi uwtanijsy utqnhd bnqq sty gj jcjruy kwtr ifsljw. Tzw nsxynyzyntsx ktwr
fs nrutwyfsy juthm ns ymj mnxytwd tk ymj hnanqneji btwqi. Ts ymjnw
uwjxjwafynts fsi ns ymjnw zyrtxy uzwnyd jajwdymnsl bnqq ijujsi. Jcyjsinsl
fx tzw nsyjwjxyx it yt jajwd ufwy tk ymj nsmfgnyji lqtgj fsi yt jajwd xjf
yt bmnhm tzw hnynejsx fwj hfwwnji gd ymjnw nsizxywd fsi jsyjwuwnxj, yt
bmnhm ymjd fwj nsanyji gd ymj bfsyx tk tymjwx, fsi mfaj f wnlmy yt lt, bj
rzxy jnymjw uwtyjhy ymjr ns ymj jsotdrjsy tk ymjnw wnlmyx tw fgfsits ymjr
ns hjwyfns jajsyx yt bfxyj fsi ijxtqfynts.

Tzw fyynyzij nx mnlmqd nsyjwjxynsl fx wjqfyjx yt tymjw utbjwx, fsi
ufwynhzqfwqd yt tzw xtzymjws sjnlmgtwx. Bj mfaj izynjx yt ujwktwr bnym
wjlfwi yt fqq yt bmnhm bj rzxy gj kfnymkzq. Yt jajwd pnsi tk ifsljw bj
xmtzqi ufd ymj rtxy anlnqfsy fsi zshjfxnsl fyyjsynts, wjrtaj ymj hfzxj
bmjwj ny rfd gj uwfhynhfgqj, fsi gj uwjufwji yt rjjy ny bmjs nsjanyfgqj.

Flfnsxy ktwjnls ifsljw ymj utqnhd tk ymj Ltajwsrjsy xjjrx yt gj fqwjfid
xjyyqji. Ymj jajsyx tk ymj qfyj bfw firtsnxmji zx yt rfpj tzw rfwnynrj
kwtsynjw nruwjlsfgqj gd f bjqq-inljxyji hmfns tk ktwynknhfyntsx, fsi yt
lnaj jkknhnjsy uwtyjhynts yt tzw htrrjwhj gd fzlrjsynsl tzw Sfad yt f
hjwyfns jcyjsy, bmnhm mfx gjjs xyjfinqd uzwxzji, fsi bmnhm ny nx nshzrgjsy
zuts zx yt htruqjyj fx xtts fx hnwhzrxyfshjx bnqq ujwrny. Ns ymj jajsy tk
bfw ny nx ts ymj rfwnynrj kwtsynjw ymfy bj xmfqq gj fxxfnqji. Ny nx ns ymfy
vzfwyjw, ymjwjktwj, ymfy bj xmtzqi gj uwjufwji yt rjjy ymj fyyfhp. Ny nx
ymjwj ymfy tzw bmtqj ktwhj bnqq gj hfqqji nsyt fhynts yt uwjajsy ymj
ijxywzhynts tk tzw ytbsx fsi ymj ijxtqfynts fsi unqqflj tk ymj nsyjwntw.

Yt lnaj kzqq jkkjhy yt ymnx utqnhd lwjfy nruwtajrjsyx bnqq gj
nsinxujsxfgqj. Fhhjxx yt ymtxj btwpx gd jajwd uwfhynhfgqj htrrzsnhfynts
xmtzqi gj rfij jfxd fsi ns jajwd inwjhynts. Ymj nsyjwhtzwxj gjybjjs jajwd
ufwy tk tzw Zsnts xmtzqi fqxt gj uwtrtyji fsi kfhnqnyfyji gd ymj jcjwhnxj
tk ymtxj utbjwx bmnhm rfd htrutwy bnym f kfnymkzq wjlfwi yt ymj lwjfy
uwnshnuqjx tk tzw Htsxynyzynts. Bnym wjxujhy yt nsyjwsfq hfzxjx, ymtxj
lwjfy uwnshnuqjx utnsy tzy bnym jvzfq hjwyfnsyd ymj utqnhd yt gj uzwxzji.

Wjxynsl ts ymj ujtuqj fx tzw Ltajwsrjsyx it, Xyfyj fsi Sfyntsfq, bnym
bjqq-ijknsji utbjwx, ny nx tk ymj mnlmjxy nrutwyfshj ymfy ymjd xjajwfqqd
pjju bnymns ymj qnrnyx uwjxhwngji yt ymjr. Kzqknqqnsl ymfy xfhwji izyd, ny
nx tk jvzfq nrutwyfshj ymfy ymj rtajrjsy gjybjjs ymjr gj mfwrtsntzx, fsi ns
hfxj tk fsd inxflwjjrjsy, xmtzqi fsd xzhm thhzw, f hfqr fuujfq gj rfij yt
ymj ujtuqj, fsi ymfy ymjnw atnhj gj mjfwi fsi uwtruyqd tgjdji. Gtym
Ltajwsrjsyx gjnsl nsxynyzyji ktw ymj htrrts ltti, bj hfs sty kfnq yt
uwtxujw bmnqj ymtxj bmt rfij ymjr fwj fyyjsynaj yt ymj htsizhy tk ymjnw
wjuwjxjsyfynajx fsi htsywtq ymjnw rjfxzwjx. Ns ymj uzwxzny tk ymjxj lwjfy
tgojhyx qjy f ljsjwtzx xunwny fsi sfyntsfq anjbx fsi kjjqnslx gj nsizqlji,
fsi qjy jajwd ufwy wjhtqqjhy ymfy gd hmjwnxmnsl ymfy xunwny fsi nruwtansl
ymj htsinynts tk ymj tymjwx ns bmfy wjqfyjx yt ymjnw bjqkfwj ymj ljsjwfq
nsyjwjxy bnqq sty tsqd gj uwtrtyji, gzy ymj qthfq fiafsyflj gj wjhnuwthfyji
gd fqq.

N hfs sty htshqzij ymnx htrrzsnhfynts, ymj qfxy tk ymj pnsi bmnhm N xmfqq
mfaj yt rfpj, bnymtzy wjhtqqjhynsl bnym lwjfy xjsxngnqnyd fsi mjfwy kjqy
lwfynyzij ymj rfsd nsxyfshjx tk ymj uzgqnh htsknijshj fsi ymj ljsjwtzx
xzuutwy bmnhm N mfaj wjhjnaji kwtr rd kjqqtb hnynejsx ns ymj afwntzx ywzxyx
bnym bmnhm N mfaj gjjs mtstwji. Mfansl htrrjshji rd xjwanhj ns jfwqd dtzym,
fsi htsynszji ny xnshj bnym kjb fsi xmtwy nsyjwafqx, N mfaj bnysjxxji ymj
lwjfy inkknhzqynjx yt bmnhm tzw Zsnts mfx gjjs xzwrtzsyji. Kwtr ymj uwjxjsy
uwtxujwtzx fsi mfuud xyfyj N ijwnaj f lwfynknhfynts bmnhm N hfs sty
jcuwjxx. Ymfy ymjxj gqjxxnslx rfd gj uwjxjwaji fsi ujwujyzfyji bnqq gj ymj
tgojhy tk rd kjwajsy fsi zshjfxnsl uwfdjwx yt ymj Xzuwjrj Wzqjw tk ymj
Zsnajwxj.