Sryybj-Pvgvmraf bs gur Frangr naq Ubhfr bs Ercerfragngvirf:

Gur nhfcvpvbhf pvephzfgnaprf haqre juvpu lbh jvyy pbzzrapr gur qhgvrf bs
gur cerfrag frffvba jvyy yvtugra gur oheqraf vafrcnenoyr sebz gur uvtu
gehfg pbzzvggrq gb lbh. Gur sehvgf bs gur rnegu unir orra hahfhnyyl
nohaqnag, pbzzrepr unf sybhevfurq, gur erirahr unf rkprrqrq gur zbfg
snibenoyr nagvpvcngvba, naq crnpr naq nzvgl ner cerfreirq jvgu sbervta
angvbaf ba pbaqvgvbaf whfg naq ubabenoyr gb bhe pbhagel. Sbe gurfr
varfgvznoyr oyrffvatf jr pna abg ohg or tengrshy gb gung Cebivqrapr juvpu
jngpurf bire gur qrfgval bs angvbaf.

Nf gur grez yvzvgrq sbe gur bcrengvba bs gur pbzzrepvny pbairagvba jvgu
Terng Oevgnva jvyy rkcver rneyl va gur zbagu bs Whyl arkg, naq vg jnf
qrrzrq vzcbegnag gung gurer fubhyq or ab vagreiny qhevat juvpu gung cbegvba
bs bhe pbzzrepr juvpu jnf cebivqrq sbe ol gung pbairagvba fubhyq abg or
erthyngrq, rvgure ol neenatrzrag orgjrra gur gjb Tbireazragf be ol gur
nhgubevgl bs Pbaterff, gur zvavfgre bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf ng Ybaqba jnf
vafgehpgrq rneyl va gur ynfg fhzzre gb vaivgr gur nggragvba bs gur Oevgvfu
Tbireazrag gb gur fhowrpg, jvgu n ivrj gb gung bowrpg. Ur jnf vafgehpgrq gb
cebcbfr nyfb gung gur artbgvngvba juvpu vg jnf jvfurq gb bcra zvtug rkgraq
gb gur trareny pbzzrepr bs gur gjb pbhagevrf, naq gb rirel bgure vagrerfg
naq hafrggyrq qvssrerapr orgjrra gurz va gur ubcr gung na neenatrzrag zvtug
or znqr ba cevapvcyrf bs erpvcebpny nqinagntr juvpu zvtug pbzceruraq naq
cebivqr va n fngvfsnpgbel znaare sbe nyy gurfr uvtu pbapreaf.

V unir gur fngvfsnpgvba gb fgngr gung gur cebcbfny jnf erprvirq ol gur
Oevgvfu Tbireazrag va gur fcvevg juvpu cebzcgrq vg, naq gung n artbgvngvba
unf orra bcrarq ng Ybaqba rzoenpvat nyy gurfr bowrpgf. Ba shyy
pbafvqrengvba bs gur terng rkgrag naq zntavghqr bs gur gehfg vg jnf gubhtug
cebcre gb pbzzvg vg gb abg yrff guna gjb bs bhe qvfgvathvfurq pvgvmraf, naq
va pbafrdhrapr gur raibl rkgenbeqvanel naq zvavfgre cyravcbgragvnel bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf ng Cnevf unf orra nffbpvngrq jvgu bhe raibl rkgenbeqvanel naq
zvavfgre cyravcbgragvnel ng Ybaqba, gb obgu bs jubz pbeerfcbaqvat
vafgehpgvbaf unir orra tvira, naq gurl ner abj ratntrq va gur qvfpunetr bs
vgf qhgvrf. Vg vf cebcre gb nqq gung gb cerirag nal vapbairavrapr erfhygvat
sebz gur qrynl vapvqrag gb n artbgvngvba ba fb znal vzcbegnag fhowrpgf vg
jnf nterrq orsber ragrevat ba vg gung gur rkvfgvat pbairagvba fubhyq or
pbagvahrq sbe n grez abg yrff guna rvtug lrnef.

Bhe eryngvbaf jvgu Fcnva erznva arneyl va gur fgngr va juvpu gurl jrer ng
gur pybfr bs gur ynfg frffvba. Gur pbairagvba bs 1802, cebivqvat sbe gur
nqwhfgzrag bs n pregnva cbegvba bs gur pynvzf bs bhe pvgvmraf sbe vawhevrf
fhfgnvarq ol fcbyvngvba, naq fb ybat fhfcraqrq ol gur Fcnavfu Tbireazrag,
unf ng yratgu orra engvsvrq ol vg, ohg ab neenatrzrag unf lrg orra znqr sbe
gur cnlzrag bs nabgure cbegvba bs yvxr pynvzf, abg yrff rkgrafvir be jryy
sbhaqrq, be sbe bgure pynffrf bs pynvzf, be sbe gur frggyrzrag bs
obhaqnevrf. Gurfr fhowrpgf unir ntnva orra oebhtug haqre pbafvqrengvba va
obgu pbhagevrf, ohg ab nterrzrag unf orra ragrerq vagb erfcrpgvat gurz.

Va gur zrna gvzr riragf unir bppheerq juvpu pyrneyl cebir gur vyy rssrpg bs
gur cbyvpl juvpu gung Tbireazrag unf fb ybat chefhrq ba gur sevraqyl
eryngvbaf bs gur gjb pbhagevrf, juvpu vg vf cerfhzrq vf ng yrnfg bs nf zhpu
vzcbegnapr gb Fcnva nf gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf gb znvagnva. N fgngr bs guvatf
unf rkvfgrq va gur Sybevqnf gur graqrapl bs juvpu unf orra boivbhf gb nyy
jub unir cnvq gur fyvtugrfg nggragvba gb gur cebterff bs nssnvef va gung
dhnegre. Guebhtubhg gur jubyr bs gubfr Cebivaprf gb juvpu gur Fcnavfu gvgyr
rkgraqf gur Tbireazrag bs Fcnva unf fpnepryl orra sryg. Vgf nhgubevgl unf
orra pbasvarq nyzbfg rkpyhfviryl gb gur jnyyf bs Crafnpbyn naq Fg.
Nhthfgvar, jvguva juvpu bayl fznyy tneevfbaf unir orra znvagnvarq.
Nqiragheref sebz rirel pbhagel, shtvgvirf sebz whfgvpr, naq nofpbaqvat
fynirf unir sbhaq na nflyhz gurer. Frireny gevorf bs Vaqvnaf, fgebat va gur
ahzore bs gurve jneevbef, erznexnoyr sbe gurve srebpvgl, naq jubfr
frggyrzragf rkgraq gb bhe yvzvgf, vaunovg gubfr Cebivaprf.

Gurfr qvssrerag ubeqrf bs crbcyr, pbaarpgrq gbtrgure, qvfertneqvat ba gur
bar fvqr gur nhgubevgl bs Fcnva, naq cebgrpgrq ba gur bgure ol na vzntvanel
yvar juvpu frcnengrf Sybevqn sebz gur Havgrq Fgngrf, unir ivbyngrq bhe ynjf
cebuvovgvat gur vagebqhpgvba bs fynirf, unir cenpgvprq inevbhf senhqf ba
bhe erirahr, naq pbzzvggrq rirel xvaq bs bhgentr ba bhe crnprnoyr pvgvmraf
juvpu gurve cebkvzvgl gb hf ranoyrq gurz gb crecrgengr.

Gur vainfvba bs Nzryvn Vfynaq ynfg lrne ol n fznyy onaq bs nqiragheref, abg
rkprrqvat bar uhaqerq naq svsgl va ahzore, jub jerfgrq vg sebz gur
vapbafvqrenoyr Fcnavfu sbepr fgngvbarq gurer, naq uryq vg frireny zbaguf,
qhevat juvpu n fvatyr srroyr rssbeg bayl jnf znqr gb erpbire vg, juvpu
snvyrq, pyrneyl cebirf ubj pbzcyrgryl rkgvapg gur Fcnavfu nhgubevgl unq
orpbzr, nf gur pbaqhpg bs gubfr nqiragheref juvyr va cbffrffvba bs gur
vfynaq nf qvfgvapgyl fubjf gur creavpvbhf checbfrf sbe juvpu gurve
pbzovangvba unq orra sbezrq.

Guvf pbhagel unq, va snpg, orpbzr gur gurngre bs rirel fcrpvrf bs ynjyrff
nqiragher. Jvgu yvggyr cbchyngvba bs vgf bja, gur Fcnavfu nhgubevgl nyzbfg
rkgvapg, naq gur pbybavny tbireazragf va n fgngr bs eribyhgvba, univat ab
cergrafvba gb vg, naq fhssvpvragyl rzcyblrq va gurve bja pbapreaf, vg jnf
va terng zrnfher qreryvpg, naq gur bowrpg bs phcvqvgl gb rirel nqiraghere.
N flfgrz bs ohppnarrevat jnf encvqyl betnavmvat bire vg juvpu zranprq va
vgf pbafrdhraprf gur ynjshy pbzzrepr bs rirel angvba, naq cnegvphyneyl gur
Havgrq Fgngrf, juvyr vg cerfragrq n grzcgngvba gb rirel crbcyr, ba jubfr
frqhpgvba vgf fhpprff cevapvcnyyl qrcraqrq.

Va ertneq gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf, gur creavpvbhf rssrpg bs guvf haynjshy
pbzovangvba jnf abg pbasvarq gb gur bprna; gur Vaqvna gevorf unir
pbafgvghgrq gur rssrpgvir sbepr va Sybevqn. Jvgu gurfr gevorf gurfr
nqiragheref unq sbezrq ng na rneyl crevbq n pbaarpgvba jvgu n ivrj gb ninvy
gurzfryirf bs gung sbepr gb cebzbgr gurve bja cebwrpgf bs npphzhyngvba naq
nttenaqvmrzrag. Vg vf gb gur vagresrerapr bs fbzr bs gurfr nqiragheref, va
zvfercerfragvat gur pynvzf naq gvgyrf bs gur Vaqvnaf gb ynaq naq va
cenpgvpvat ba gurve fnintr cebcrafvgvrf, gung gur Frzvabyr jne vf
cevapvcnyyl gb or genprq. Zra jub guhf pbaarpg gurzfryirf jvgu fnintr
pbzzhavgvrf naq fgvzhyngr gurz gb jne, juvpu vf nyjnlf nggraqrq ba gurve
cneg jvgu npgf bs oneonevgl gur zbfg fubpxvat, qrfreir gb or ivrjrq va n
jbefr yvtug guna gur fnintrf. Gurl jbhyq pregnvayl unir ab pynvz gb na
vzzhavgl sebz gur chavfuzrag juvpu, nppbeqvat gb gur ehyrf bs jnesner
cenpgvprq ol gur fnintrf, zvtug whfgyl or vasyvpgrq ba gur fnintrf
gurzfryirf.

Vs gur rzoneenffzragf bs Fcnva ceriragrq ure sebz znxvat na vaqrzavgl gb
bhe pvgvmraf sbe fb ybat n gvzr sebz ure gernfhel sbe gurve ybffrf ol
fcbyvngvba naq bgurejvfr, vg jnf nyjnlf va ure cbjre gb unir cebivqrq vg ol
gur prffvba bs guvf greevgbel. Bs guvf ure Tbireazrag unf orra ercrngrqyl
nccevfrq, naq gur prffvba jnf gur zber gb unir orra nagvpvcngrq nf Fcnva
zhfg unir xabja gung va prqvat vg fur jbhyq yvxrjvfr eryvrir urefrys sebz
gur vzcbegnag boyvtngvba frpherq ol gur gerngl bs 1795 naq nyy bgure
pbzcebzvgzragf erfcrpgvat vg. Vs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, sebz pbafvqrengvba bs
gurfr rzoneenffzragf, qrpyvarq cerffvat gurve pynvzf va n fcvevg bs
ubfgvyvgl, gur zbgvir bhtug ng yrnfg gb unir orra qhyl nccerpvngrq ol gur
Tbireazrag bs Fcnva. Vg vf jryy xabja gb ure Tbireazrag gung bgure cbjref
unir znqr gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf na vaqrzavgl sbe yvxr ybffrf fhfgnvarq ol
gurve pvgvmraf ng gur fnzr rcbpu.

Gurer vf arireguryrff n yvzvg orlbaq juvpu guvf fcvevg bs nzvgl naq
sbeornenapr pna va ab vafgnapr or whfgvsvrq. Vs vg jnf cebcre gb eryl ba
nzvpnoyr artbgvngvba sbe na vaqrzavgl sbe ybffrf, vg jbhyq abg unir orra fb
gb unir crezvggrq gur vanovyvgl bs Fcnva gb shysvyy ure ratntrzragf naq gb
fhfgnva ure nhgubevgl va gur Sybevqnf gb or creiregrq ol sbervta
nqiragheref naq fnintrf gb checbfrf fb qrfgehpgvir gb gur yvirf bs bhe
sryybj pvgvmraf naq gur uvturfg vagrerfgf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf.

Gur evtug bs frys qrsrafr arire prnfrf. Vg vf nzbat gur zbfg fnperq, naq
nyvxr arprffnel gb angvbaf naq gb vaqvivqhnyf, naq jurgure gur nggnpx or
znqr ol Fcnva urefrys be ol gubfr jub nohfr ure cbjre, vgf boyvtngvba vf
abg gur yrff fgebat.

Gur vainqref bs Nzryvn Vfynaq unq nffhzrq n cbchyne naq erfcrpgrq gvgyr
haqre juvpu gurl zvtug nccebnpu naq jbhaq hf. Nf gurve bowrpg jnf
qvfgvapgyl frra, naq gur qhgl vzcbfrq ba gur Rkrphgvir ol na rkvfgvat ynj
jnf cebsbhaqyl sryg, gung znfx jnf abg crezvggrq gb cebgrpg gurz. Vg jnf
gubhtug vaphzorag ba gur Havgrq Fgngrf gb fhccerff gur rfgnoyvfuzrag, naq
vg jnf nppbeqvatyl qbar. Gur pbzovangvba va Sybevqn sbe gur haynjshy
checbfrf fgngrq, gur npgf crecrgengrq ol gung pbzovangvba, naq, nobir nyy,
gur vapvgrzrag bs gur Vaqvnaf gb znffnper bhe sryybj pvgvmraf bs rirel ntr
naq bs obgu frkrf, zrevgrq n yvxr gerngzrag naq erprvirq vg.

Va chefhvat gurfr fnintrf gb na vzntvanel yvar va gur jbbqf vg jbhyq unir
orra gur urvtug bs sbyyl gb unir fhssrerq gung yvar gb cebgrpg gurz. Unq
gung orra qbar gur jne pbhyq arire prnfr. Rira vs gur greevgbel unq orra
rkpyhfviryl gung bs Fcnva naq ure cbjre pbzcyrgr bire vg, jr unq n evtug ol
gur ynj bs angvbaf gb sbyybj gur rarzl ba vg naq gb fhoqhr uvz gurer. Ohg
gur greevgbel orybatrq, va n pregnva frafr ng yrnfg, gb gur fnintr rarzl
jub vaunovgrq vg; gur cbjre bs Fcnva unq prnfrq gb rkvfg bire vg, naq
cebgrpgvba jnf fbhtug haqre ure gvgyr ol gubfr jub unq pbzzvggrq ba bhe
pvgvmraf ubfgvyvgvrf juvpu fur jnf obhaq ol gerngl gb unir ceriragrq, ohg
unq abg gur cbjre gb cerirag. Gb unir fgbccrq ng gung yvar jbhyq unir tvira
arj rapbhentrzrag gb gurfr fnintrf naq arj ivtbe gb gur jubyr pbzovangvba
rkvfgvat gurer va gur cebfrphgvba bs nyy vgf creavpvbhf checbfrf.

Va fhccerffvat gur rfgnoyvfuzrag ng Nzryvn Vfynaq ab hasevraqyvarff jnf
znavsrfgrq gbjneq Fcnva, orpnhfr gur cbfg jnf gnxra sebz n sbepr juvpu unq
jerfgrq vg sebz ure. Gur zrnfher, vg vf gehr, jnf abg nqbcgrq va pbapreg
jvgu gur Fcnavfu Tbireazrag be gubfr va nhgubevgl haqre vg, orpnhfr va
genafnpgvbaf pbaarpgrq jvgu gur jne va juvpu Fcnva naq gur pbybavrf ner
ratntrq vg jnf gubhtug cebcre va qbvat whfgvpr gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf gb
znvagnva n fgevpg vzcnegvnyvgl gbjneq obgu gur oryyvtrerag cnegvrf jvgubhg
pbafhygvat be npgvat va pbapreg jvgu rvgure. Vg tvirf zr cyrnfher gb fgngr
gung gur Tbireazragf bs Ohrabf Nlerf naq Irarmhryn, jubfr anzrf jrer
nffhzrq, unir rkcyvpvgyl qvfpynvzrq nyy cnegvpvcngvba va gubfr zrnfherf,
naq rira gur xabjyrqtr bs gurz hagvy pbzzhavpngrq ol guvf Tbireazrag, naq
unir nyfb rkcerffrq gurve fngvfsnpgvba gung n pbhefr bs cebprrqvatf unq
orra fhccerffrq juvpu vs whfgyl vzchgnoyr gb gurz jbhyq qvfubabe gurve
pnhfr.

Va nhgubevmvat Znwbe-Trareny Wnpxfba gb ragre Sybevqn va chefhvg bs gur
Frzvabyrf pner jnf gnxra abg gb rapebnpu ba gur evtugf bs Fcnva. V erterg
gb unir gb nqq gung va rkrphgvat guvf beqre snpgf jrer qvfpybfrq erfcrpgvat
gur pbaqhpg bs gur bssvpref bs Fcnva va nhgubevgl gurer va rapbhentvat gur
jne, sheavfuvat zhavgvbaf bs jne naq bgure fhccyvrf gb pneel vg ba, naq va
bgure npgf abg yrff znexrq juvpu rivaprq gurve cnegvpvcngvba va gur ubfgvyr
checbfrf bs gung pbzovangvba naq whfgvsvrq gur pbasvqrapr jvgu juvpu vg
vafcverq gur fnintrf gung ol gubfr bssvpref gurl jbhyq or cebgrpgrq.

N pbaqhpg fb vapbzcngvoyr jvgu gur sevraqyl eryngvbaf rkvfgvat orgjrra gur
gjb pbhagevrf, cnegvphyneyl jvgu gur cbfvgvir boyvtngvbaf bs gur 5gu
negvpyr bs gur gerngl bs 1795, ol juvpu Fcnva jnf obhaq gb erfgenva, rira
ol sbepr, gubfr fnintrf sebz npgf bs ubfgvyvgl ntnvafg gur Havgrq Fgngrf,
pbhyq abg snvy gb rkpvgr fhecevfr. Gur pbzznaqvat trareny jnf pbaivaprq
gung ur fubhyq snvy va uvf bowrpg, gung ur fubhyq va rssrpg nppbzcyvfu
abguvat, vs ur qvq abg qrcevir gubfr fnintrf bs gur erfbhepr ba juvpu gurl
unq pnyphyngrq naq bs gur cebgrpgvba ba juvpu gurl unq eryvrq va znxvat gur
jne. Nf nyy gur qbphzragf eryngvat gb guvf bppheerapr jvyy or ynvq orsber
Pbaterff, vg vf abg arprffnel gb ragre vagb shegure qrgnvy erfcrpgvat vg.

Nygubhtu gur ernfbaf juvpu vaqhprq Znwbe-Trareny Wnpxfba gb gnxr gurfr
cbfgf jrer qhyl nccerpvngrq, gurer jnf arireguryrff ab urfvgngvba va
qrpvqvat ba gur pbhefr juvpu vg orpnzr gur Tbireazrag gb chefhr. Nf gurer
jnf ernfba gb oryvrir gung gur pbzznaqref bs gurfr cbfgf unq ivbyngrq gurve
vafgehpgvbaf, gurer jnf ab qvfcbfvgvba gb vzchgr gb gurve Tbireazrag n
pbaqhpg fb hacebibxrq naq ubfgvyr. Na beqre jnf va pbafrdhrapr vffhrq gb
gur trareny va pbzznaq gurer gb qryvire gur cbfgf--Crafnpbyn
hapbaqvgvbanyyl gb nal crefba qhyl nhgubevmrq gb erprvir vg, naq Fg. Znexf,
juvpu vf va gur urneg bs gur Vaqvna pbhagel, ba gur neeviny bs n pbzcrgrag
sbepr gb qrsraq vg ntnvafg gubfr fnintrf naq gurve nffbpvngrf.

Va ragrevat Sybevqn gb fhccerff guvf pbzovangvba ab vqrn jnf ragregnvarq bs
ubfgvyvgl gb Fcnva, naq ubjrire whfgvsvnoyr gur pbzznaqvat trareny jnf, va
pbafrdhrapr bs gur zvfpbaqhpg bs gur Fcnavfu bssvpref, va ragrevat Fg.
Znexf naq Crafnpbyn gb grezvangr vg ol cebivat gb gur fnintrf naq gurve
nffbpvngrf gung gurl fubhyq abg or cebgrpgrq rira gurer, lrg gur nzvpnoyr
eryngvbaf rkvfgvat orgjrra gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq Fcnva pbhyq abg or nygrerq
ol gung npg nybar. Ol beqrevat gur erfgvghgvba bs gur cbfgf gubfr eryngvbaf
jrer cerfreirq. Gb n punatr bs gurz gur cbjre bs gur Rkrphgvir vf qrrzrq
vapbzcrgrag; vg vf irfgrq va Pbaterff bayl.

Ol guvf zrnfher, fb cebzcgyl gnxra, qhr erfcrpg jnf fubja gb gur Tbireazrag
bs Fcnva. Gur zvfpbaqhpg bs ure bssvpref unf abg orra vzchgrq gb ure. Fur
jnf ranoyrq gb erivrj jvgu pnaqbe ure eryngvbaf jvgu gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq
ure bja fvghngvba, cnegvphyneyl va erfcrpg gb gur greevgbel va dhrfgvba,
jvgu gur qnatref vafrcnenoyr sebz vg, naq ertneqvat gur ybffrf jr unir
fhfgnvarq sbe juvpu vaqrzavgl unf orra fb ybat jvguuryq, naq gur vawhevrf
jr unir fhssrerq guebhtu gung greevgbel, naq ure zrnaf bs erqerff, fur jnf
yvxrjvfr ranoyrq gb gnxr jvgu ubabe gur pbhefr orfg pnyphyngrq gb qb
whfgvpr gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq gb cebzbgr ure bja jrysner.

Pbcvrf bs gur vafgehpgvbaf gb gur pbzznaqvat trareny, bs uvf pbeerfcbaqrapr
jvgu gur Frpergnel bs Jne, rkcynvavat uvf zbgvirf naq whfgvslvat uvf
pbaqhpg, jvgu n pbcl bs gur cebprrqvatf bs gur pbhegf-znegvny va gur gevny
bs Neohguabg naq Nzoevfgvr, naq bs gur pbeerfcbaqrapr orgjrra gur Frpergnel
bs Fgngr naq gur zvavfgre cyravcbgragvnel bs Fcnva arne guvf Tbireazrag,
naq bs gur zvavfgre cyravcbgragvnel bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf ng Znqevq jvgu gur
Tbireazrag bs Fcnva, jvyy or ynvq orsber Pbaterff.

Gur pvivy jne juvpu unf fb ybat cerinvyrq orgjrra Fcnva naq gur Cebivaprf
va Fbhgu Nzrevpn fgvyy pbagvahrf, jvgubhg nal cebfcrpg bs vgf fcrrql
grezvangvba. Gur vasbezngvba erfcrpgvat gur pbaqvgvba bs gubfr pbhagevrf
juvpu unf orra pbyyrpgrq ol gur pbzzvffvbaref erpragyl erghearq sebz gurapr
jvyy or ynvq orsber Pbaterff va pbcvrf bs gurve ercbegf, jvgu fhpu bgure
vasbezngvba nf unf orra erprvirq sebz bgure ntragf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf.

Vg nccrnef sebz gurfr pbzzhavpngvbaf gung gur Tbireazrag ng Ohrabf Nlerf
qrpynerq vgfrys vaqrcraqrag va Whyl, 1816, univat cerivbhfyl rkrepvfrq gur
cbjre bs na vaqrcraqrag Tbireazrag, gubhtu va gur anzr bs gur Xvat bs
Fcnva, sebz gur lrne 1810; gung gur Onaqn Bevragny, Rager Evbf, naq
Cnenthnl, jvgu gur pvgl bs Fnagn Srr, nyy bs juvpu ner nyfb vaqrcraqrag,
ner hapbaarpgrq jvgu gur cerfrag Tbireazrag bs Ohrabf Nlerf; gung Puvyv unf
qrpynerq vgfrys vaqrcraqrag naq vf pybfryl pbaarpgrq jvgu Ohrabf Nlerf;
gung Irarmhryn unf nyfb qrpynerq vgfrys vaqrcraqrag, naq abj znvagnvaf gur
pbasyvpg jvgu inevbhf fhpprff; naq gung gur erznvavat cnegf bs Fbhgu
Nzrevpn, rkprcg Zbagr Ivqrb naq fhpu bgure cbegvbaf bs gur rnfgrea onax bs
gur Yn Cyngn nf ner uryq ol Cbeghtny, ner fgvyy va gur cbffrffvba bs Fcnva
be va n pregnva qrterr haqre ure vasyhrapr.

Ol n pvephyne abgr nqqerffrq ol gur zvavfgref bs Fcnva gb gur nyyvrq
cbjref, jvgu jubz gurl ner erfcrpgviryl npperqvgrq, vg nccrnef gung gur
nyyvrf unir haqregnxra gb zrqvngr orgjrra Fcnva naq gur Fbhgu Nzrevpna
Cebivaprf, naq gung gur znaare naq rkgrag bs gurve vagrecbfvgvba jbhyq or
frggyrq ol n pbaterff juvpu jnf gb unir zrg ng Nvk-yn-Puncryyr va Frcgrzore
ynfg. Sebz gur trareny cbyvpl naq pbhefr bs cebprrqvat bofreirq ol gur
nyyvrq cbjref va ertneq gb guvf pbagrfg vg vf vasreerq gung gurl jvyy
pbasvar gurve vagrecbfvgvba gb gur rkcerffvba bs gurve fragvzragf,
nofgnvavat sebz gur nccyvpngvba bs sbepr. V fgngr guvf vzcerffvba gung
sbepr jvyy abg or nccyvrq jvgu gur terngre fngvfsnpgvba orpnhfr vg vf n
pbhefr zber pbafvfgrag jvgu whfgvpr naq yvxrjvfr nhgubevmrf n ubcr gung gur
pnynzvgvrf bs gur jne jvyy or pbasvarq gb gur cnegvrf bayl, naq jvyy or bs
fubegre qhengvba.

Sebz gur ivrj gnxra bs guvf fhowrpg, sbhaqrq ba nyy gur vasbezngvba gung jr
unir orra noyr gb bognva, gurer vf tbbq pnhfr gb or fngvfsvrq jvgu gur
pbhefr urergbsber chefhrq ol gur Havgrq Fgngrf va ertneq gb guvf pbagrfg,
naq gb pbapyhqr gung vg vf cebcre gb nqurer gb vg, rfcrpvnyyl va gur
cerfrag fgngr bs nssnvef.

V unir terng fngvfsnpgvba va fgngvat gung bhe eryngvbaf jvgu Senapr,
Ehffvn, naq bgure cbjref pbagvahr ba gur zbfg sevraqyl onfvf.

Va bhe qbzrfgvp pbapreaf jr unir nzcyr pnhfr bs fngvfsnpgvba. Gur erprvcgf
vagb gur Gernfhel qhevat gur guerr svefg dhnegref bs gur lrne unir rkprrqrq
$17 zvyyvbaf.

Nsgre fngvfslvat nyy gur qrznaqf juvpu unir orra znqr haqre rkvfgvat
nccebcevngvbaf, vapyhqvat gur svany rkgvapgvba bs gur byq 6% fgbpx naq gur
erqrzcgvba bs n zbvrgl bs gur Ybhvfvnan qrog, vg vf rfgvzngrq gung gurer
jvyy erznva va gur Gernfhel ba gur 1fg qnl bs Wnahnel arkg zber guna $2
zvyyvbaf.

Vg vf nfpregnvarq gung gur tebff erirahr juvpu unf nppehrq sebz gur phfgbzf
qhevat gur fnzr crevbq nzbhagf gb $21 zvyyvbaf, naq gung gur erirahr bs
gur jubyr lrne znl or rfgvzngrq ng abg yrff guna $26 zvyyvbaf. Gur fnyr
bs gur choyvp ynaqf qhevat gur lrne unf nyfb terngyl rkprrqrq, obgu va
dhnagvgl naq cevpr, gung bs nal sbezre lrne, naq gurer vf whfg ernfba gb
rkcrpg n cebterffvir vzcebirzrag va gung fbhepr bs erirahr.

Vg vf tengvslvat gb xabj gung nygubhtu gur naahny rkcraqvgher unf orra
vapernfrq ol gur npg bs gur ynfg frffvba bs Pbaterff cebivqvat sbe
Eribyhgvbanel crafvbaf gb na nzbhag nobhg rdhny gb gur cebprrqf bs gur
vagreany qhgvrf juvpu jrer gura ercrnyrq, gur erirahr sbe gur rafhvat lrne
jvyy or cebcbegvbanyyl nhtzragrq, naq gung juvyfg gur choyvp rkcraqvgher
jvyy cebonoyl erznva fgngvbanel, rnpu fhpprffvir lrne jvyy nqq gb gur
angvbany erfbheprf ol gur beqvanel vapernfr bs bhe cbchyngvba naq ol gur
tenqhny qrirybczrag bs bhe yngrag fbheprf bs angvbany cebfcrevgl.

Gur fgevpg rkrphgvba bs gur erirahr ynjf, erfhygvat cevapvcnyyl sebz gur
fnyhgnel cebivfvbaf bs gur npg bs gur 20gu bs Ncevy ynfg nzraqvat gur
frireny pbyyrpgvba ynjf, unf, vg vf cerfhzrq, frpherq gb qbzrfgvp
znahsnpgherf nyy gur eryvrs gung pna or qrevirq sebz gur qhgvrf juvpu unir
orra vzcbfrq hcba sbervta zrepunaqvfr sbe gurve cebgrpgvba. Haqre gur
vasyhrapr bs guvf eryvrs frireny oenapurf bs guvf vzcbegnag angvbany
vagrerfg unir nffhzrq terngre npgvivgl, naq nygubhtu vg vf ubcrq gung
bguref jvyy tenqhnyyl erivir naq hygvzngryl gevhzcu bire rirel bofgnpyr,
lrg gur rkcrqvrapl bs tenagvat shegure cebgrpgvba vf fhozvggrq gb lbhe
pbafvqrengvba.

Gur zrnfherf bs qrsrafr nhgubevmrq ol rkvfgvat ynjf unir orra chefhrq jvgu
gur mrny naq npgvivgl qhr gb fb vzcbegnag na bowrpg, naq jvgu nyy gur
qvfcngpu cenpgvpnoyr va fb rkgrafvir naq terng na haqregnxvat. Gur fheirl
bs bhe znevgvzr naq vaynaq sebagvref unf orra pbagvahrq, naq ng gur cbvagf
jurer vg jnf qrpvqrq gb rerpg sbegvsvpngvbaf gur jbex unf orra pbzzraprq,
naq va fbzr vafgnaprf pbafvqrenoyr cebterff unf orra znqr. Va pbzcyvnapr
jvgu erfbyhgvbaf bs gur ynfg frffvba, gur Obneq bs Pbzzvffvbaref jrer
qverpgrq gb rknzvar va n cnegvphyne znaare gur cnegf bs gur pbnfg gurerva
qrfvtangrq naq gb ercbeg gurve bcvavba bs gur zbfg fhvgnoyr fvgrf sbe gjb
aniny qrcbgf. Guvf jbex vf va n genva bs rkrphgvba. Gur bcvavba bs gur
Obneq ba guvf fhowrpg, jvgu n cyna bs nyy gur jbexf arprffnel gb n trareny
flfgrz bs qrsrafr fb sne nf vg unf orra sbezrq, jvyy or ynvq orsber
Pbaterff va n ercbeg sebz gur cebcre qrcnegzrag nf fbba nf vg pna or
cercnerq.

Va pbasbezvgl jvgu gur nccebcevngvbaf bs gur ynfg frffvba, gerngvrf unir
orra sbezrq jvgu gur Dhncnj gevor bs Vaqvnaf, vaunovgvat gur pbhagel ba gur
Nexnafnj, naq gur Terng naq Yvggyr Bfntrf abegu bs gur Juvgr Evire; jvgu
gur gevorf va gur Fgngr bs Vaqvnan; jvgu gur frireny gevorf jvguva gur
Fgngr bs Buvb naq gur Zvpuvtna Greevgbel, naq jvgu gur Puvpxnfnjf, ol juvpu
irel rkgrafvir prffvbaf bs greevgbel unir orra znqr gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf.
Artbgvngvbaf ner abj qrcraqvat jvgu gur gevorf va gur Vyyvabvf Greevgbel
naq jvgu gur Pubpgnjf, ol juvpu vg vf rkcrpgrq gung bgure rkgrafvir
prffvbaf jvyy or znqr. V gnxr terng vagrerfg va fgngvat gung gur prffvbaf
nyernql znqr, juvpu ner pbafvqrerq fb vzcbegnag gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf, unir
orra bognvarq ba pbaqvgvbaf irel fngvfsnpgbel gb gur Vaqvnaf.

Jvgu n ivrj gb gur frphevgl bs bhe vaynaq sebagvref, vg unf orra gubhtug
rkcrqvrag gb rfgnoyvfu fgebat cbfgf ng gur zbhgu bs Lryybj Fgbar Evire naq
ng gur Znaqna ivyyntr ba gur Zvffbhev, naq ng gur zbhgu bs Fg. Crgref ba
gur Zvffvffvccv, ng ab terng qvfgnapr sebz bhe abegurea obhaqnevrf. Vg pna
uneqyl or cerfhzrq juvyr fhpu cbfgf ner znvagnvarq va gur erne bs gur
Vaqvna gevorf gung gurl jvyy iragher gb nggnpx bhe crnprnoyr vaunovgnagf. N
fgebat ubcr vf ragregnvarq gung guvf zrnfher jvyy yvxrjvfr or cebqhpgvir bs
zhpu tbbq gb gur gevorf gurzfryirf, rfcrpvnyyl va cebzbgvat gur terng
bowrpg bs gurve pvivyvmngvba.

Rkcrevrapr unf pyrneyl qrzbafgengrq gung vaqrcraqrag fnintr pbzzhavgvrf pna
abg ybat rkvfg jvguva gur yvzvgf bs n pvivyvmrq cbchyngvba. Gur cebterff bs
gur ynggre unf nyzbfg vainevnoyl grezvangrq va gur rkgvapgvba bs gur
sbezre, rfcrpvnyyl bs gur gevorf orybatvat gb bhe cbegvba bs guvf
urzvfcurer, nzbat jubz ybsgvarff bs fragvzrag naq tnyynagel va npgvba unir
orra pbafcvphbhf. Gb pvivyvmr gurz, naq rira gb cerirag gurve rkgvapgvba,
vg frrzf gb or vaqvfcrafnoyr gung gurve vaqrcraqrapr nf pbzzhavgvrf fubhyq
prnfr, naq gung gur pbageby bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf bire gurz fubhyq or
pbzcyrgr naq haqvfchgrq. Gur uhagre fgngr jvyy gura or zber rnfvyl
nonaqbarq, naq erpbhefr jvyy or unq gb gur npdhvfvgvba naq phygher bs ynaq
naq gb bgure chefhvgf graqvat gb qvffbyir gur gvrf juvpu pbaarpg gurz
gbtrgure nf n fnintr pbzzhavgl naq gb tvir n arj punenpgre gb rirel
vaqvivqhny. V cerfrag guvf fhowrpg gb gur pbafvqrengvba bs Pbaterff ba gur
cerfhzcgvba gung vg znl or sbhaq rkcrqvrag naq cenpgvpnoyr gb nqbcg fbzr
oraribyrag cebivfvbaf, univat gurfr bowrpgf va ivrj, eryngvir gb gur gevorf
jvguva bhe frggyrzragf.

Vg unf orra arprffnel qhevat gur cerfrag lrne gb znvagnva n fgebat aniny
sbepr va gur Zrqvgreenarna naq va gur Thys bs Zrkvpb, naq gb fraq fbzr
choyvp fuvcf nybat gur fbhgurea pbnfg naq gb gur Cnpvsvp Bprna. Ol gurfr
zrnaf nzvpnoyr eryngvbaf jvgu gur Oneonel Cbjref unir orra cerfreirq, bhe
pbzzrepr unf orra cebgrpgrq, naq bhe evtugf erfcrpgrq. Gur nhtzragngvba bs
bhe Anil vf nqinapvat jvgu n fgrnql cebterff gbjneq gur yvzvg pbagrzcyngrq
ol ynj.

V pbzzhavpngr jvgu terng fngvfsnpgvba gur npprffvba bs nabgure Fgngr
(Vyyvabvf) gb bhe Havba, orpnhfr V creprvir sebz gur cebbs nssbeqrq ol gur
nqqvgvbaf nyernql znqr gur erthyne cebterff naq fher pbafhzzngvba bs n
cbyvpl bs juvpu uvfgbel nssbeqf ab rknzcyr, naq bs juvpu gur tbbq rssrpg
pna abg or gbb uvtuyl rfgvzngrq. Ol rkgraqvat bhe Tbireazrag ba gur
cevapvcyrf bs bhe Pbafgvghgvba bire gur infg greevgbel jvguva bhe yvzvgf,
ba gur Ynxrf naq gur Zvffvffvccv naq vgf ahzrebhf fgernzf, arj yvsr naq
ivtbe ner vashfrq vagb rirel cneg bs bhe flfgrz. Ol vapernfvat gur ahzore
bs gur Fgngrf gur pbasvqrapr bs gur Fgngr tbireazragf va gurve bja frphevgl
vf vapernfrq naq gurve wrnybhfl bs gur Angvbany Tbireazrag cebcbegvbanyyl
qvzvavfurq.

Gur vzcenpgvpnovyvgl bs bar pbafbyvqngrq Tbireazrag sbe guvf terng naq
tebjvat angvba jvyy or zber nccnerag naq jvyy or havirefnyyl nqzvggrq.
Vapncnoyr bs rkrepvfvat ybpny nhgubevgl rkprcg sbe trareny checbfrf, gur
Trareny Tbireazrag jvyy ab ybatre or qernqrq. Va gubfr pnfrf bs n ybpny
angher naq sbe nyy gur terng checbfrf sbe juvpu vg jnf vafgvghgrq vgf
nhgubevgl jvyy or purevfurq. Rnpu Tbireazrag jvyy npdhver arj sbepr naq n
terngre serrqbz bs npgvba jvguva vgf cebcre fcurer.

Bgure varfgvznoyr nqinagntrf jvyy sbyybj. Bhe cebqhpr jvyy or nhtzragrq gb
na vapnyphynoyr nzbhag va negvpyrf bs gur terngrfg inyhr sbe qbzrfgvp hfr
naq sbervta pbzzrepr. Bhe anivtngvba jvyy va yvxr qrterr or vapernfrq, naq
nf gur fuvccvat bs gur Ngynagvp Fgngrf jvyy or rzcyblrq va gur
genafcbegngvba bs gur infg cebqhpr bs gur Jrfgrea pbhagel, rira gubfr cnegf
bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf juvpu ner zbfg erzbgr sebz rnpu bgure jvyy or shegure
obhaq gbtrgure ol gur fgebatrfg gvrf juvpu zhghny vagrerfg pna perngr.

Gur fvghngvba bs guvf Qvfgevpg, vg vf gubhtug, erdhverf gur nggragvba bs
Pbaterff. Ol gur Pbafgvghgvba gur cbjre bs yrtvfyngvba vf rkpyhfviryl
irfgrq va gur Pbaterff bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Va gur rkrepvfr bs guvf cbjre,
va juvpu gur crbcyr unir ab cnegvpvcngvba, Pbaterff yrtvfyngr va nyy pnfrf
qverpgyl ba gur ybpny pbapreaf bs gur Qvfgevpg. Nf guvf vf n qrcnegher, sbe
n fcrpvny checbfr, sebz gur trareny cevapvcyrf bs bhe flfgrz, vg znl zrevg
pbafvqrengvba jurgure na neenatrzrag orggre nqncgrq gb gur cevapvcyrf bs
bhe Tbireazrag naq gb gur cnegvphyne vagrerfgf bs gur crbcyr znl abg or
qrivfrq juvpu jvyy arvgure vasevatr gur Pbafgvghgvba abe nssrpg gur bowrpg
juvpu gur cebivfvba va dhrfgvba jnf vagraqrq gb frpher. Gur tebjvat
cbchyngvba, nyernql pbafvqrenoyr, naq gur vapernfvat ohfvarff bs gur
Qvfgevpg, juvpu vg vf oryvrirq nyernql vagresrerf jvgu gur qryvorengvbaf bs
Pbaterff ba terng angvbany pbapreaf, sheavfu nqqvgvbany zbgvirf sbe
erpbzzraqvat guvf fhowrpg gb lbhe pbafvqrengvba.

Jura jr ivrj gur terng oyrffvatf jvgu juvpu bhe pbhagel unf orra sniberq,
gubfr juvpu jr abj rawbl, naq gur zrnaf juvpu jr cbffrff bs unaqvat gurz
qbja havzcnverq gb bhe yngrfg cbfgrevgl, bhe nggragvba vf veerfvfgvoyl
qenja gb gur fbhepr sebz jurapr gurl sybj. Yrg hf, gura, havgr va bssrevat
bhe zbfg tengrshy npxabjyrqtzragf sbe gurfr oyrffvatf gb gur Qvivar Nhgube
bs Nyy Tbbq.