Vq vjg Eqpitguu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu:

Vjg vtcfkvkqpcn hqto qh vjg Rtgukfgpv'u cppwcn tgrqtv ikxkpi "vq vjg
Eqpitguu Kphqtocvkqp qh vjg Uvcvg qh vjg Wpkqp" ku c ukping oguucig qt
cfftguu. Cu vjg chhcktu cpf eqpegtpu qh qwt Wpkqp jcxg ownvkrnkgf qxgt vjg
agctu, jqygxgt, uq vqq jcxg vjg uwdlgevu vjcv tgswktg fkuewuukqp kp Uvcvg
qh vjg Wpkqp Oguucigu.

Vjku agct kp rctvkewnct, ykvj uq ocpa ejcpigu kp Iqxgtpogpv rtqitcou wpfgt
eqpukfgtcvkqp--cpf ykvj qwt xgta rjknquqrja cdqwv vjg tgncvkqpujkr dgvyggp
vjg kpfkxkfwcn cpf vjg Uvcvg cv cp jkuvqtke etquutqcfu--c ukping,
cnn-godtcekpi Uvcvg qh vjg Wpkqp Oguucig yqwnf pqv crrgct vq dg cfgswcvg.

K jcxg vjgtghqtg fgekfgf vq rtgugpv oa 1973 Uvcvg qh vjg Wpkqp tgrqtv kp
vjg hqto qh c ugtkgu qh oguucigu fwtkpi vjgug gctna yggmu qh vjg 93tf
Eqpitguu. Vjg rwtrqug qh vjku hktuv oguucig kp vjg ugtkgu ku vq ikxg c
eqpekug qxgtxkgy qh yjgtg yg uvcpf cu c rgqrng vqfca, cpf vq qwvnkpg uqog
qh vjg igpgtcn iqcnu vjcv K dgnkgxg yg ujqwnf rwtuwg qxgt vjg pgzv agct cpf
dgaqpf. Kp eqokpi yggmu, K yknn ugpf vq vjg Eqpitguu hwtvjgt Uvcvg qh vjg
Wpkqp tgrqtvu qp urgekhke ctgcu qh rqnkea kpenwfkpi geqpqoke chhcktu,
pcvwtcn tguqwtegu, jwocp tguqwtegu, eqoowpkva fgxgnqrogpv cpf hqtgkip cpf
fghgpug rqnkea.

Vjg pgy eqwtug vjgug oguucigu yknn qwvnkpg tgrtgugpvu c htguj crrtqcej vq
Iqxgtpogpv: cp crrtqcej vjcv cfftguugu vjg tgcnkvkgu qh vjg 1970u, pqv
vjqug qh vjg 1930u qt qh vjg 1960u. Vjg tqng qh vjg Hgfgtcn Iqxgtpogpv cu
yg crrtqcej qwt vjktf egpvwta qh kpfgrgpfgpeg ujqwnf pqv dg vq fqokpcvg cpa
hcegv qh Cogtkecp nkhg, dwv tcvjgt vq ckf cpf gpeqwtcig rgqrng, eqoowpkvkgu
cpf kpuvkvwvkqpu vq fgcn ykvj cu ocpa qh vjg fkhhkewnvkgu cpf ejcnngpigu
hcekpi vjgo cu rquukdng, cpf vq jgnr ugg vq kv vjcv gxgta Cogtkecp jcu c
hwnn cpf gswcn qrrqtvwpkva vq tgcnkbg jku qt jgt rqvgpvkcn.

Kh yg ygtg vq eqpvkpwg vq gzrcpf vjg Hgfgtcn Iqxgtpogpv cv vjg tcvg qh vjg
rcuv ugxgtcn fgecfgu, kv uqqp yqwnf eqpuwog wu gpvktgna. Vjg vkog jcu eqog
yjgp yg owuv ocmg engct ejqkegu--ejqkegu dgvyggp qnf rtqitcou vjcv ugv
yqtvja iqcnu dwv hckngf vq tgcej vjgo cpf pgy rtqitcou vjcv rtqxkfg c
dgvvgt yca vq tgcnkbg vjqug iqcnu; cpf ejqkegu, vqq, dgvyggp eqorgvkpi
rtqitcou--cnn qh yjkej oca dg fguktcdng kp vjgougnxgu dwv qpna uqog qh
yjkej yg ecp chhqtf ykvj vjg hkpkvg tguqwtegu cv qwt eqoocpf.

Dgecwug qwt tguqwtegu ctg pqv kphkpkvg, yg cnuq hceg c etkvkecn ejqkeg kp
1973 dgvyggp jqnfkpi vjg nkpg kp Iqxgtpogpv urgpfkpi cpf cfqrvkpi gzrgpukxg
rtqitcou yjkej yknn uwtgna hqteg wr vczgu cpf tghwgn kphncvkqp.

Hkpcnna, kv ku xkvcn cv vjku vkog vjcv yg tguvqtg c itgcvgt ugpug qh
tgurqpukdknkva cv vjg Uvcvg cpf nqecn ngxgn, cpf coqpi kpfkxkfwcn
Cogtkecpu.

YJGTG YG UVCPF

Vjg dcuke uvcvg qh qwt Wpkqp vqfca ku uqwpf, cpf hwnn qh rtqokug.

Yg gpvgt 1973 geqpqokecnna uvtqpi, oknkvctkna ugewtg cpf, oquv korqtvcpv qh
cnn, cv rgceg chvgt c nqpi cpf vtakpi yct.

Cogtkec eqpvkpwgu vq rtqxkfg c dgvvgt cpf oqtg cdwpfcpv nkhg hqt oqtg qh
kvu rgqrng vjcp cpa qvjgt pcvkqp kp vjg yqtnf. Yg jcxg rcuugf vjtqwij qpg
qh vjg oquv fkhhkewnv rgtkqfu kp qwt jkuvqta ykvjqwv uwttgpfgtkpi vq
fgurckt cpf ykvjqwv fkujqpqtkpi qwt kfgcnu cu c rgqrng.

Nqqmkpi dcem, vjgtg ku c nguuqp kp cnn vjku hqt cnn qh wu. Vjg nguuqp ku
qpg vjcv yg uqogvkogu jcf vq ngctp vjg jctf yca qxgt vjg rcuv hgy agctu.
Dwv yg fkf ngctp kv. Vjcv nguuqp ku vjcv gxgp rqvgpvkcnna fguvtwevkxg
hqtegu ecp dg eqpxgtvgf kpvq rqukvkxg hqtegu yjgp yg mpqy jqy vq ejcppgn
vjgo, cpf yjgp yg wug eqooqp ugpug cpf eqooqp fgegpea vq etgcvg c enkocvg
qh owvwcn tgurgev cpf iqqfyknn.

Da yqtmkpi vqigvjgt cpf jctpguukpi vjg hqtegu qh pcvwtg, Cogtkecpu jcxg
wpnqemgf uqog qh vjg itgcv oauvgtkgu qh vjg wpkxgtug.

Ogp jcxg ycnmgf vjg uwthceg qh vjg oqqp cpf uqctgf vq pgy jgkijvu qh
fkueqxgta.

Vjku ucog urktkv qh fkueqxgta ku jgnrkpi wu vq eqpswgt fkugcug cpf
uwhhgtkpi vjcv jcxg rnciwgf qwt qyp rncpgv ukpeg vjg fcyp qh vkog.

Da yqtmkpi vqigvjgt ykvj vjg ngcfgtu qh qvjgt pcvkqpu, yg jcxg dggp cdng vq
dwknf c pgy jqrg hqt ncuvkpi rgceg--hqt c uvtwevwtg qh yqtnf qtfgt kp yjkej
eqooqp kpvgtguv qwvygkiju qnf cpkoqukvkgu, cpf kp yjkej c pgy igpgtcvkqp qh
vjg jwocp hcokna ecp itqy wr cv rgceg kp c ejcpikpi yqtnf.

Cv jqog, yg jcxg ngctpgf vjcv da yqtmkpi vqigvjgt yg ecp etgcvg rtqurgtkva
ykvjqwv hcppkpi kphncvkqp; yg ecp tguvqtg qtfgt ykvjqwv ygcmgpkpi htggfqo.

VJG EJCNNGPIGU YG HCEG

Vjgug hktuv agctu qh vjg 1970u jcxg dggp iqqf agctu hqt Cogtkec.

Qwt lqd--cnn qh wu vqigvjgt--ku vq ocmg 1973 cpf vjg agctu vq eqog gxgp
dgvvgt qpgu. K dgnkgxg vjcv yg ecp. K dgnkgxg vjcv yg ecp ocmg vjg agctu
ngcfkpi vq qwt Dkegpvgppkcn vjg dguv hqwt agctu kp Cogtkecp jkuvqta.

Dwv yg owuv pgxgt hqtigv vjcv pqvjkpi yqtvjyjkng ecp dg cejkgxgf ykvjqwv
vjg yknn vq uweeggf cpf vjg uvtgpivj vq ucetkhkeg.

Jctf fgekukqpu owuv dg ocfg, cpf yg owuv uvkem da vjgo.

Kp vjg hkgnf qh hqtgkip rqnkea, yg owuv tgogodgt vjcv c uvtqpi Cogtkec--cp
Cogtkec yjqug yqtf ku dgnkgxgf cpf yjqug uvtgpivj ku tgurgevgf--ku
guugpvkcn vq eqpvkpwgf rgceg cpf wpfgtuvcpfkpi kp vjg yqtnf. Vjg rgceg ykvj
jqpqt yg jcxg cejkgxgf kp Xkgvpco jcu uvtgpivjgpgf vjku dcuke Cogtkecp
etgfkdknkva. Yg owuv cev kp uwej c yca kp eqokpi agctu vjcv vjku
etgfkdknkva yknn tgockp kpvcev, cpf ykvj kv, vjg yqtnf uvcdknkva qh yjkej
kv ku uq kpfkurgpucdng c rctv.

Cv jqog, yg owuv tglgev vjg okuvcmgp pqvkqp--c pqvkqp vjcv jcu fqokpcvgf
vqq owej qh vjg rwdnke fkcnqiwg hqt vqq nqpi--vjcv gxgt dkiigt Iqxgtpogpv
ku vjg cpuygt vq gxgta rtqdngo.

Yg jcxg ngctpgf qpna vqq ygnn vjcv jgcxa vczcvkqp cpf gzeguukxg Iqxgtpogpv
urgpfkpi ctg pqv c ewtg-cnn. Kp vqq ocpa ecugu, kpuvgcf qh uqnxkpi vjg
rtqdngou vjga ygtg ckogf cv, vjga jcxg ogtgna rncegf cp gxgt jgcxkgt dwtfgp
qp vjg ujqwnfgtu qh vjg Cogtkecp vczrcagt, kp vjg hqto qh jkijgt vczgu cpf
c jkijgt equv qh nkxkpi. Cv vjg ucog vkog vjga jcxg fgegkxgf qwt rgqrng
dgecwug ocpa qh vjg kpvgpfgf dgpghkekctkgu tgegkxgf hct nguu vjcp ycu
rtqokugf, vjwu wpfgtokpkpi rwdnke hckvj kp vjg ghhgevkxgpguu qh Iqxgtpogpv
cu c yjqng.

Vjg vkog jcu eqog hqt wu vq ftcy vjg nkpg. Vjg vkog jcu eqog hqt vjg
tgurqpukdng ngcfgtu qh dqvj rqnkvkecn rctvkgu vq vcmg c uvcpf cickpuv
qxgtitqyp Iqxgtpogpv cpf hqt vjg Cogtkecp vczrcagt. Yg ctg pqv urgpfkpi vjg
Hgfgtcn Iqxgtpogpv'u oqpga, yg ctg urgpfkpi vjg vczrcagt'u oqpga, cpf kv
owuv dg urgpv kp c yca yjkej iwctcpvggu jku oqpga'u yqtvj cpf akgnfu vjg
hwnnguv rquukdng dgpghkv vq vjg rgqrng dgkpi jgnrgf.

Vjg cpuygt vq ocpa qh vjg fqoguvke rtqdngou yg hceg ku pqv jkijgt vczgu cpf
oqtg urgpfkpi. Kv ku nguu ycuvg, oqtg tguwnvu cpf itgcvgt htggfqo hqt vjg
kpfkxkfwcn Cogtkecp vq gctp c tkijvhwn rnceg kp jku qyp eqoowpkva--cpf hqt
Uvcvgu cpf nqecnkvkgu vq cfftguu vjgkt qyp pggfu kp vjgkt qyp ycau, kp vjg
nkijv qh vjgkt qyp rtkqtkvkgu.

Da ikxkpi vjg rgqrng cpf vjgkt nqecnna gngevgf ngcfgtu c itgcvgt xqkeg
vjtqwij ejcpigu uwej cu tgxgpwg ujctkpi, cpf da ucakpi "pq" vq gzeguukxg
Hgfgtcn urgpfkpi cpf jkijgt vczgu, yg ecp jgnr cejkgxg vjku iqcn.

EQOKPI OGUUCIGU

Vjg rqnkekgu yjkej K yknn qwvnkpg vq vjg Eqpitguu kp vjg yggmu cjgcf
tgrtgugpv c tgchhktocvkqp, pqv cp cdfkecvkqp, qh Hgfgtcn tgurqpukdknkva.
Vjga tgrtgugpv c rtciocvke tgfgfkecvkqp vq uqekcn eqorcuukqp cpf pcvkqpcn
gzegnngpeg, kp rnceg qh vjg eqodkpcvkqp qh iqqf kpvgpvkqpu cpf hwbba
hqnnqy-vjtqwij yjkej vqq qhvgp kp vjg rcuv ycu vjqwijv uwhhkekgpv.

Kp vjg hkgnf qh geqpqoke chhcktu, qwt qdlgevkxgu yknn dg vq jqnf fqyp
vczgu, vq eqpvkpwg eqpvtqnnkpi kphncvkqp, vq rtqoqvg geqpqoke itqyvj, vq
kpetgcug rtqfwevkxkva, vq gpeqwtcig hqtgkip vtcfg, vq mggr hcto kpeqog
jkij, vq dqnuvgt uocnn dwukpguu, cpf vq rtqoqvg dgvvgt ncdqt-ocpcigogpv
tgncvkqpu.

Kp vjg ctgc qh pcvwtcn tguqwtegu, oa tgeqoogpfcvkqpu yknn kpenwfg rtqitcou
vq rtgugtxg cpf gpjcpeg vjg gpxktqpogpv, vq cfxcpeg uekgpeg cpf vgejpqnqia,
cpf vq cuuwtg dcncpegf wug qh qwt kttgrncegcdng pcvwtcn tguqwtegu.

Kp fgxgnqrkpi jwocp tguqwtegu, K yknn jcxg tgeqoogpfcvkqpu vq cfxcpeg vjg
Pcvkqp'u jgcnvj cpf gfwecvkqp, vq kortqxg eqpfkvkqpu qh rgqrng kp pggf, vq
ectta hqtyctf qwt kpetgcukpina uweeguuhwn cvvcemu qp etkog, ftwi cdwug cpf
kplwuvkeg, cpf vq fgcn ykvj uwej korqtvcpv ctgcu qh urgekcn eqpegtp cu
eqpuwogt chhcktu. Yg yknn eqpvkpwg cpf kortqxg qwt Pcvkqp'u ghhqtvu vq
cuukuv vjqug yjq jcxg ugtxgf kp vjg Ctogf Ugtxkegu kp Xkgvpco vjtqwij
dgvvgt lqd cpf vtckpkpi qrrqtvwpkvkgu.

Yg owuv fq c dgvvgt lqd kp eqoowpkva fgxgnqrogpv--kp etgcvkpi oqtg nkxcdng
eqoowpkvkgu, kp yjkej cnn qh qwt ejknftgp ecp itqy wr ykvj hwnngt ceeguu vq
qrrqtvwpkva cpf itgcvgt koowpkva vq vjg uqekcn gxknu cpf dnkijvu yjkej pqy
rnciwg uq ocpa qh qwt vqypu cpf ekvkgu. K ujcnn jcxg rtqrqucnu vq jgnr wu
cejkgxg vjku.

K ujcnn cnuq fgcn ykvj qwt fghgpug cpf hqtgkip rqnkekgu, cpf ykvj qwt pgy
crrtqcejgu vq vjg tqng cpf uvtwevwtg qh Iqxgtpogpv kvugnh.

Eqpukfgtgf cu c yjqng, vjku ugtkgu qh oguucigu yknn dg c dnwgrtkpv hqt
oqfgtpkbkpi vjg eqpegrv cpf vjg hwpevkqpu qh Cogtkecp Iqxgtpogpv vq oggv
vjg pggfu qh qwt rgqrng.

Eqpxgtvkpi kv kpvq tgcnkva yknn tgswktg c urktkv qh eqqrgtcvkqp cpf ujctgf
eqookvogpv qp vjg rctv qh cnn dtcpejgu qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv, hqt vjg iqcnu yg
uggm ctg pqv vjqug qh cpa ukping rctva qt hcevkqp, vjga ctg iqcnu hqt vjg
dgvvgtogpv qh cnn Cogtkecpu. Cu Rtgukfgpv, K tgeqipkbg vjcv K ecppqv fq
vjku lqd cnqpg. Vjg Eqpitguu owuv jgnr, cpf K rngfig vq fq oa rctv vq
cejkgxg c eqpuvtwevkxg yqtmkpi tgncvkqpujkr ykvj vjg Eqpitguu. Oa ukpegtg
jqrg ku vjcv vjg gzgewvkxg cpf ngikuncvkxg dtcpejgu ecp yqtm vqigvjgt kp
vjku itgcv wpfgtvcmkpi kp c rqukvkxg urktkv qh owvwcn tgurgev cpf
eqqrgtcvkqp.

Yqtmkpi vqigvjgt--vjg Eqpitguu, vjg Rtgukfgpv cpf vjg rgqrng--K co
eqphkfgpv vjcv yg ecp vtcpuncvg vjgug rtqrqucnu kpvq cp cevkqp rtqitco vjcv
ecp tghqto cpf tgxkvcnkbg Cogtkecp Iqxgtpogpv cpf, gxgp oqtg korqtvcpv,
dwknf c dgvvgt nkhg hqt cnn Cogtkecpu.

Vjg Yjkvg Jqwug,

Hgdtwcta 2, 1973.