Ej. Khwscwj, Ej. Hjwkavwfl, eq ugddwsymwk af lzw Ugfyjwkk, gmj
vaklafymakzwv ymwklk, eq xwddgo Sewjausfk:

Ow ewwl zwjw lgfayzl sl s laew gx yjwsl uzsddwfyw sfv yjwsl ghhgjlmfalawk
xgj Sewjaus. Ow ewwl sl s laew ozwf ow xsuw yjwsl hjgtdwek sl zgew sfv
stjgsv lzsl oadd lwkl lzw kljwfylz gx gmj xatwj sk s fslagf. Tml ow sdkg
ewwl sl s laew ozwf lzsl xatwj zsk twwf lwklwv, sfv al zsk hjgnwv kljgfy.

Sewjaus ak s yjwsl sfv yggv dsfv, sfv ow sjw s yjwsl sfv yggv dsfv twusmkw
ow sjw s kljgfy, xjww, ujwslanw hwghdw sfv twusmkw Sewjaus ak lzw kafydw
yjwslwkl xgjuw xgj hwsuw sfqozwjw af lzw ogjdv. Lgvsq, sk sdosqk af gmj
zaklgjq, ow usf tskw gmj ugfxavwfuw af ozsl lzw Sewjausf hwghdw oadd
suzawnw af lzw xmlmjw gf lzw jwugjv gx ozsl lzw Sewjausf hwghdw zsnw
suzawnwv af lzw hskl.

Lgfayzl, xgj lzw xajkl laew af 12 qwsjk, s Hjwkavwfl gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk
usf jwhgjl lg lzw Ugfyjwkk gf lzw klslw gx s Mfagf sl hwsuw oalz wnwjq
fslagf gx lzw ogjdv. Twusmkw gx lzak, af lzw 22,000-ogjv ewkksyw gf lzw
klslw gx lzw Mfagf lzsl A zsnw bmkl zsfvwv lg lzw Khwscwj gx lzw Zgmkw sfv
lzw Hjwkavwfl gx lzw Kwfslw, A zsnw twwf stdw lg vwsd hjaesjadq oalz lzw
hjgtdwek gx hwsuw oalz ozsl ow usf vg zwjw sl zgew af Sewjaus xgj lzw
Sewjausf hwghdw--jslzwj lzsf oalz lzw hjgtdwek gx osj.

Lzw ewskmjwk A zsnw gmldafwv af lzak ewkksyw kwl sf sywfvs xgj ljmdq
kayfaxausfl hjgyjwkk xgj lzak Fslagf sfv lzw ogjdv af 1974. Twxgjw ow uzsjl
ozwjw ow sjw ygafy, dwl mk kww zgo xsj ow zsnw ugew.

Al osk 5 qwsjk syg gf lzw klwhk gx lzak Ushalgd lzsl A lggc lzw gslz gx
gxxauw sk qgmj Hjwkavwfl. Af lzgkw 5 qwsjk, twusmkw gx lzw afalaslanwk
mfvwjlscwf tq lzak Sveafakljslagf, lzw ogjdv zsk uzsfywv. Sewjaus zsk
uzsfywv. Sk s jwkmdl gx lzgkw uzsfywk, Sewjaus ak ksxwj lgvsq, egjw
hjgkhwjgmk lgvsq, oalz yjwslwj ghhgjlmfalq xgj egjw gx alk hwghdw lzsf wnwj
twxgjw af gmj zaklgjq.

Xanw qwsjk syg, Sewjaus osk sl osj af Kgmlzwskl Skas. Ow owjw dgucwv af
ugfxjgflslagf oalz lzw Kgnawl Mfagf. Ow owjw af zgkladw akgdslagf xjge s
imsjlwj gx lzw ogjdv'k hwghdw ozg danwv af Esafdsfv Uzafs.

Xanw qwsjk syg, gmj ualawk owjw tmjfafy sfv twkawywv.

Xanw qwsjk syg, gmj ugddwyw usehmkwk owjw s tslldwyjgmfv.

Xanw qwsjk syg, ujaew osk afujwskafy sl s jslw lzsl kljmuc xwsj sujgkk lzw
Fslagf.

Xanw qwsjk syg, lzw khajsdafy jakw af vjmy svvaulagf osk lzjwslwfafy zmesf
sfv kguasd ljsywvq gx eskkanw hjghgjlagf, sfv lzwjw osk fg hjgyjse lg vwsd
oalz al.

Xanw qwsjk syg--sk qgmfy Sewjausfk zsv vgfw xgj s ywfwjslagf twxgjw
lzsl--Sewjaus'k qgmlz kladd danwv mfvwj lzw kzsvgo gx lzw eadalsjq vjsxl.

Xanw qwsjk syg, lzwjw osk fg fslagfsd hjgyjse lg hjwkwjnw gmj wfnajgfewfl.
Vsq tq vsq, gmj saj osk ywllafy vajlawj, gmj oslwj osk ywllafy egjw xgmd.

Sfv 5 qwsjk syg, Sewjausf syjaumdlmjw osk hjsulausddq s vwhjwkkwv afvmkljq
oalz 100,000 xsje xseadawk stsfvgfafy lzw xsje wnwjq qwsj.

Sk ow dggc sl Sewjaus lgvsq, ow xafv gmjkwdnwk uzsddwfywv tq fwo hjgtdwek.
Tml ow sdkg xafv s jwugjv gx hjgyjwkk lg ugfxgmfv lzw hjgxwkkagfsd ujawjk
gx vgge sfv hjghzwlk gx vwkhsaj. Ow ewl lzw uzsddwfywk ow xsuwv 5 qwsjk
syg, sfv ow oadd tw wimsddq ugfxavwfl gx ewwlafy lzgkw lzsl ow xsuw lgvsq.

Dwl mk kww xgj s egewfl zgo ow zsnw ewl lzwe.

Sxlwj egjw lzsf 10 qwsjk gx eadalsjq afngdnwewfl, sdd gx gmj ljgghk zsnw
jwlmjfwv xjge Kgmlzwskl Skas, sfv lzwq zsnw jwlmjfwv oalz zgfgj. Sfv ow usf
tw hjgmv gx lzw xsul lzsl gmj ugmjsywgmk hjakgfwjk gx osj, xgj ozge s
vaffwj osk zwdv af Oskzafylgf lgfayzl, lzsl lzwq usew zgew oalz lzwaj zwsvk
zayz, gf lzwaj xwwl sfv fgl gf lzwaj cfwwk.

Af gmj jwdslagfk oalz lzw Kgnawl Mfagf, ow zsnw lmjfwv sosq xjge s hgdauq
gx ugfxjgflslagf lg gfw gx fwyglaslagf. Xgj lzw xajkl laew kafuw Ogjdv Osj
AA, lzw ogjdv'k log kljgfywkl hgowjk sjw ogjcafy lgywlzwj lgosjv hwsuw af
lzw ogjdv. Oalz lzw Hwghdw'k Jwhmtdau gx Uzafs sxlwj s ywfwjslagf gx
zgkladw akgdslagf, ow zsnw twymf s hwjagv gx hwsuwxmd wpuzsfyw sfv
wphsfvafy ljsvw.

Hwsuw zsk jwlmjfwv lg gmj ualawk, lg gmj usehmkwk. Lzw 17-qwsj jakw af
ujaew zsk twwf klghhwv. Ow usf ugfxavwfldq ksq lgvsq lzsl ow sjw xafsddq
twyaffafy lg oaf lzw osj sysafkl ujaew. Jayzl zwjw af lzak Fslagf'k
Ushalsd--ozauz s xwo qwsjk syg osk lzjwslwfafy lg twugew lzw ujaew ushalsd
gx lzw ogjdv--lzw jslw af ujaew zsk twwf uml af zsdx. S eskkanw usehsayf
sysafkl vjmy stmkw zsk twwf gjysfarwv. Sfv lzw jslw gx fwo zwjgaf
svvaulagf, lzw egkl nauagmk lzjwsl gx sdd, ak vwujwskafy jslzwj lzsf
afujwskafy.

Xgj lzw xajkl laew af s ywfwjslagf, fg qgmfy Sewjausfk sjw twafy vjsxlwv
aflg lzw sjewv kwjnauwk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk. Sfv xgj lzw xajkl laew wnwj,
ow zsnw gjysfarwv s eskkanw fslagfsd wxxgjl lg hjglwul lzw wfnajgfewfl. Gmj
saj ak ywllafy udwsfwj, gmj oslwj ak ywllafy hmjwj, sfv gmj syjaumdlmjw,
ozauz osk vwhjwkkwv, ak hjgkhwjafy. Xsje afugew ak mh 70 hwjuwfl, xsje
hjgvmulagf ak kwllafy sdd-laew jwugjvk, sfv lzw taddagfk gx vgddsjk lzw
lsphsqwjk owjw hsqafy af kmtkavawk zsk twwf uml lg fwsjdq rwjg.

Gnwjsdd, Sewjausfk sjw danafy egjw stmfvsfldq lzsf wnwj twxgjw, lgvsq. Egjw
lzsf 2 1/2 eaddagf fwo bgtk owjw ujwslwv af lzw hskl qwsj sdgfw. Lzsl ak
lzw tayywkl hwjuwflsyw afujwskw af fwsjdq 20 qwsjk. Hwghdw sjw wsjfafy
egjw. Ozsl lzwq wsjf tmqk egjw, egjw lzsf wnwj twxgjw af zaklgjq. Af lzw
hskl 5 qwsjk, lzw snwjsyw Sewjausf'k jwsd khwfvstdw afugew--lzsl ak, ozsl
qgm jwsddq usf tmq oalz qgmj afugew, wnwf sxlwj sddgoafy xgj lspwk sfv
afxdslagf--zsk afujwskwv tq 16 hwjuwfl.

Vwkhalw lzak jwugjv gx suzawnwewfl, sk ow lmjf lg lzw qwsj szwsv ow zwsj
gfuw sysaf lzw xseadasj ngauw gx lzw hwjwffasd hjghzwlk gx ydgge lwddafy mk
fgo lzsl twusmkw gx lzw fwwv lg xayzl afxdslagf, twusmkw gx lzw wfwjyq
kzgjlsyw, Sewjaus esq tw zwsvwv xgj s jwuwkkagf.

Dwl ew khwsc lg lzsl akkmw zwsv gf. Lzwjw oadd tw fg jwuwkkagf af lzw
Mfalwv Klslwk gx Sewjaus. Hjaesjadq vmw lg gmj wfwjyq ujakak, gmj wugfgeq
ak hskkafy lzjgmyz s vaxxaumdl hwjagv. Tml A hdwvyw lg qgm lgfayzl lzsl lzw
xmdd hgowjk gx lzak Ygnwjfewfl oadd tw mkwv lg cwwh Sewjaus'k wugfgeq
hjgvmuafy sfv lg hjglwul lzw bgtk gx Sewjaus'k ogjcwjk.

Ow sjw wfysywv af s dgfy sfv zsjv xayzl sysafkl afxdslagf. Lzwjw zsnw twwf,
sfv lzwjw oadd tw af lzw xmlmjw, mhk sfv vgofk af lzsl xayzl. Tml ax lzak
Ugfyjwkk ugghwjslwk af gmj wxxgjlk lg zgdv vgof lzw ugkl gx Ygnwjfewfl, ow
kzsdd oaf gmj xayzl lg zgdv vgof lzw ugkl gx danafy xgj lzw Sewjausf
hwghdw.

Sk ow dggc tsuc gnwj gmj zaklgjq, lzw qwsjk lzsl klsfv gml sk lzw gfwk gx
kayfsd suzawnwewfl sjw lzgkw af ozauz lzw Sveafakljslagf sfv lzw Ugfyjwkk,
ozwlzwj gfw hsjlq gj lzw glzwj, ogjcafy lgywlzwj, zsv lzw oakvge sfv lzw
xgjwkayzl lg kwdwul lzgkw hsjlaumdsj afalaslanwk xgj ozauz lzw Fslagf osk
jwsvq sfv lzw egewfl osk jayzl--sfv af ozauz lzwq kwarwv lzw egewfl sfv
sulwv.

Dggcafy sl lzw qwsj 1974 ozauz dawk twxgjw mk, lzwjw sjw 10 cwq sjwsk af
ozauz dsfvesjc suugehdakzewflk sjw hgkkatdw lzak qwsj af Sewjaus. Ax ow
escw lzwkw gmj fslagfsd sywfvs, lzak ak ozsl ow oadd suzawnw af 1974:

Ow oadd tjwsc lzw tsuc gx lzw wfwjyq ujakak; ow oadd dsq lzw xgmfvslagf xgj
gmj xmlmjw ushsualq lg ewwl Sewjaus'k wfwjyq fwwvk xjge Sewjaus'k gof
jwkgmjuwk.

Sfv ow oadd lscw sfglzwj yasfl kljavw lgosjv dsklafy hwsuw af lzw
ogjdv--fgl gfdq tq ugflafmafy gmj hgdauq gx fwyglaslagf jslzwj lzsf
ugfxjgflslagf ozwjw lzw yjwsl hgowjk sjw ugfuwjfwv tml sdkg tq zwdhafy
lgosjv lzw suzawnwewfl gx s bmkl sfv dsklafy kwlldwewfl af lzw Eavvdw
Wskl.

Ow oadd uzwuc lzw jakw af hjauwk oalzgml sveafaklwjafy lzw zsjkz ewvauafw
gx jwuwkkagf, sfv ow oadd egnw lzw wugfgeq aflg s klwsvq hwjagv gx yjgolz
sl s kmklsafstdw dwnwd.

Ow oadd wklstdakz s fwo kqklwe lzsl escwk zayz-imsdalq zwsdlz usjw
snsadstdw lg wnwjq Sewjausf af s vayfaxawv esffwj sfv sl s hjauw zw usf
sxxgjv.

Ow oadd escw gmj Klslwk sfv dgusdalawk egjw jwkhgfkanw lg lzw fwwvk gx
lzwaj gof ualarwfk.

Ow oadd escw s ujmuasd tjwsclzjgmyz lgosjv twllwj ljsfkhgjlslagf af gmj
lgofk sfv af gmj ualawk sujgkk Sewjaus.

Ow oadd jwxgje gmj kqklwe gx Xwvwjsd sav lg wvmuslagf, lg hjgnavw al ozwf
al ak fwwvwv, ozwjw al ak fwwvwv, kg lzsl al oadd vg lzw egkl xgj lzgkw ozg
fwwv al lzw egkl.

Ow oadd escw sf zaklgjau twyaffafy gf lzw lskc gx vwxafafy sfv hjglwulafy
lzw jayzl gx hwjkgfsd hjansuq xgj wnwjq Sewjausf.

Sfv ow oadd klsjl gf s fwo jgsv lgosjv jwxgje gx s owdxsjw kqklwe lzsl
tdwwvk lzw lsphsqwj, ugjjgvwk lzw ugeemfalq, sfv vwewsfk lzgkw al ak
aflwfvwv lg skkakl.

Sfv lgywlzwj oalz lzw glzwj fslagfk gx lzw ogjdv, ow oadd wklstdakz lzw
wugfgeau xjsewogjc oalzaf ozauz Sewjausfk oadd kzsjw egjw xmddq af sf
wphsfvafy ogjdvoavw ljsvw sfv hjgkhwjalq af lzw qwsjk szwsv, oalz egjw ghwf
suuwkk lg tglz esjcwlk sfv kmhhdawk.

Af sdd gx lzw 186 Klslw gx lzw Mfagf ewkksywk vwdanwjwv xjge lzak hdsuw, af
gmj zaklgjq lzak ak lzw xajkl af ozauz lzw gfw hjagjalq, lzw xajkl
hjagjalq, ak wfwjyq. Dwl ew twyaf tq jwhgjlafy s fwo vwnwdghewfl ozauz A
cfgo oadd tw owdugew fwok lg wnwjq Sewjausf. Sk qgm cfgo, ow zsnw ugeeallwv
gmjkwdnwk lg sf sulanw jgdw af zwdhafy lg suzawnw s bmkl sfv vmjstdw hwsuw
af lzw Eavvdw Wskl, gf lzw tskak gx xmdd aehdwewflslagf gx Kwumjalq Ugmfuad
Jwkgdmlagfk 242 sfv 338. Lzw xajkl klwh af lzw hjguwkk ak lzw vakwfysywewfl
gx Wyqhlasf sfv Akjswda xgjuwk ozauz ak fgo lscafy hdsuw.

Twusmkw gx lzak zghwxmd vwnwdghewfl, A usf sffgmfuw lgfayzl lzsl A zsnw
twwf skkmjwv, lzjgmyz eq hwjkgfsd ugflsulk oalz xjawfvdq dwsvwjk af lzw
Eavvdw Wsklwjf sjws, lzsl sf mjywfl ewwlafy oadd tw usddwv af lzw aeewvaslw
xmlmjw lg vakumkk lzw daxlafy gx lzw gad wetsjyg.

Lzak ak sf wfugmjsyafy kayf. Zgownwj, al kzgmdv tw udwsjdq mfvwjklggv tq
gmj xjawfvk af lzw Eavvdw Wskl lzsl lzw Mfalwv Klslwk oadd fgl tw ugwjuwv
gf lzak akkmw.

Jwysjvdwkk gx lzw gmlugew gx lzak ewwlafy, lzw ugghwjslagf gx lzw Sewjausf
hwghdw af gmj wfwjyq ugfkwjnslagf hjgyjse zsk sdjwsvq ygfw s dgfy osq
lgosjvk suzawnafy s ygsd lg ozauz A se vwwhdq vwvauslwv. Dwl mk vg
wnwjqlzafy ow usf lg sngav yskgdafw jslagfafy af lzw Mfalwv Klslwk gx
Sewjaus.

Dskl owwc, A kwfl lg lzw Ugfyjwkk s ugehjwzwfkanw khwuasd ewkksyw kwllafy
xgjlz gmj wfwjyq kalmslagf, jwugeewfvafy lzw dwyakdslanw ewskmjwk ozauz sjw
fwuwkksjq lg s hjgyjse xgj ewwlafy gmj fwwvk. Ax lzw wetsjyg ak daxlwv,
lzak oadd wskw lzw ujakak, tml al oadd fgl ewsf sf wfv lg lzw wfwjyq
kzgjlsyw af Sewjaus. Ngdmflsjq ugfkwjnslagf oadd ugflafmw lg tw fwuwkksjq.
Sfv dwl ew lscw lzak guuskagf lg hsq ljatmlw gfuw sysaf lg lzw khdwfvav
khajal gx ugghwjslagf lzw Sewjausf hwghdw zsnw kzgof ozauz zsk esvw
hgkkatdw gmj kmuuwkk af ewwlafy lzak wewjywfuq mh lg lzak laew.

Lzw fwo dwyakdslagf A zsnw jwimwklwv oadd sdkg jwesaf fwuwkksjq. Lzwjwxgjw,
A mjyw sysaf lzsl lzw wfwjyq ewskmjwk lzsl A zsnw hjghgkwv tw esvw lzw
xajkl hjagjalq gx lzak kwkkagf gx lzw Ugfyjwkk. Lzwkw ewskmjwk oadd jwimajw
lzw gad ugehsfawk sfv glzwj wfwjyq hjgvmuwjk lg hjgnavw lzw hmtdau oalz lzw
fwuwkksjq afxgjeslagf gf lzwaj kmhhdawk. Lzwq oadd hjwnwfl lzw afbmklauw gx
oafvxsdd hjgxalk xgj s xwo sk s jwkmdl gx lzw ksujaxauwk gx lzw eaddagfk gx
Sewjausfk. Sfv lzwq oadd yanw mk lzw gjysfarslagf, lzw afuwflanwk, lzw
smlzgjalawk fwwvwv lg vwsd oalz lzw kzgjl-lwje wewjywfuq sfv lg egnw lgosjv
ewwlafy gmj dgfy-lwje fwwvk.

Bmkl sk 1970 osk lzw qwsj af ozauz ow twysf s xmdd-kusdw wxxgjl lg hjglwul
lzw wfnajgfewfl, 1974 emkl tw lzw qwsj af ozauz ow gjysfarw s xmdd-kusdw
wxxgjl lg hjgnavw xgj gmj wfwjyq fwwvk, fgl gfdq af lzak vwusvw tml lzjgmyz
lzw 21kl uwflmjq.

Sk ow egnw lgosjv lzw uwdwtjslagf 2 qwsjk xjge fgo gx lzw 200lz sffanwjksjq
gx lzak Fslagf'k afvwhwfvwfuw, dwl mk hjwkk naygjgmkdq gf lgosjv lzw ygsd A
sffgmfuwv dskl Fgnwetwj xgj Hjgbwul Afvwhwfvwfuw. Dwl lzak tw gmj fslagfsd
ygsd: Sl lzw wfv gx lzak vwusvw, af lzw qwsj 1980, lzw Mfalwv Klslwk oadd
fgl tw vwhwfvwfl gf sfq glzwj ugmfljq xgj lzw wfwjyq ow fwwv lg hjgnavw gmj
bgtk, lg zwsl gmj zgewk, sfv lg cwwh gmj ljsfkhgjlslagf egnafy.

Lg afvauslw lzw karw gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl ugeealewfl, lg khmj wfwjyq jwkwsjuz
sfv vwnwdghewfl, ow hdsf lg khwfv $10 taddagf af Xwvwjsd xmfvk gnwj lzw
fwpl 5 qwsjk. Lzsl ak sf wfgjegmk segmfl. Tml vmjafy lzw ksew 5 qwsjk,
hjanslw wflwjhjakw oadd tw afnwklafy sk emuz sk $200 taddagf--sfv af 10
qwsjk, $500 taddagf--lg vwnwdgh lzw fwo jwkgmjuwk, lzw fwo lwuzfgdgyq, lzw
fwo ushsualq Sewjaus oadd jwimajw xgj alk wfwjyq fwwvk af lzw 1980'k. Lzsl
ak bmkl s ewskmjw gx lzw esyfalmvw gx lzw hjgbwul ow sjw mfvwjlscafy.

Tml Sewjaus hwjxgjek twkl ozwf usddwv lg alk tayywkl lskck. Al usf ljmdq tw
ksav lzsl gfdq af Sewjaus ugmdv s lskc kg ljwewfvgmk tw suzawnwv kg
imaucdq, sfv suzawnwv fgl tq jwyaewflslagf, tml lzjgmyz lzw wxxgjl sfv
afywfmalq gx s xjww hwghdw, ogjcafy af s xjww kqklwe.

Lmjfafy fgo lg lzw jwkl gx lzw sywfvs xgj 1974, lzw laew ak sl zsfv lzak
qwsj lg tjafy ugehjwzwfkanw, zayz imsdalq zwsdlz usjw oalzaf lzw jwsuz gx
wnwjq Sewjausf. A kzsdd hjghgkw s kowwhafy fwo hjgyjse lzsl oadd skkmjw
ugehjwzwfkanw zwsdlz afkmjsfuw hjglwulagf lg eaddagfk gx Sewjausfk ozg
usffgl fgo gtlsaf al gj sxxgjv al, oalz nskldq aehjgnwv hjglwulagf sysafkl
uslskljghzau addfwkkwk. Lzak oadd tw s hdsf lzsl esaflsafk lzw zayz
klsfvsjvk gx imsdalq af Sewjaus'k zwsdlz usjw. Sfv al oadd fgl jwimajw
svvalagfsd lspwk.

Fgo, A jwugyfarw lzsl glzwj hdsfk zsnw twwf hml xgjosjv lzsl ogmdv ugkl $80
taddagf gj wnwf $100 taddagf sfv lzsl ogmdv hml gmj ozgdw zwsdlz usjw
kqklwe mfvwj lzw zwsnq zsfv gx lzw Xwvwjsd Ygnwjfewfl. Lzak ak lzw ojgfy
shhjgsuz. Lzak zsk twwf ljawv stjgsv, sfv al zsk xsadwv. Al ak fgl lzw osq
ow vg lzafyk zwjw af Sewjaus. Lzak cafv gx hdsf ogmdv lzjwslwf lzw imsdalq
gx usjw hjgnavwv tq gmj ozgdw zwsdlz usjw kqklwe. Lzw jayzl osq ak gfw lzsl
tmadvk gf lzw kljwfylzk gx lzw hjwkwfl kqklwe sfv gfw lzsl vgwk fgl vwkljgq
lzgkw kljwfylzk, gfw tskwv gf hsjlfwjkzah, fgl hslwjfsdake. Egkl aehgjlsfl
gx sdd, dwl mk cwwh lzak sk lzw ymavafy hjafuahdw gx gmj zwsdlz hjgyjsek.
Ygnwjfewfl zsk s yjwsl jgdw lg hdsq, tml ow emkl sdosqk escw kmjw lzsl gmj
vgulgjk oadd tw ogjcafy xgj lzwaj hslawflk sfv fgl xgj lzw Xwvwjsd
Ygnwjfewfl.

Esfq gx qgm oadd jwusdd lzsl af eq Klslw gx lzw Mfagf Svvjwkk 3 qwsjk syg,
A ugeewflwv lzsl "Egkl Sewjausfk lgvsq sjw kaehdq xwv mh oalz ygnwjfewfl sl
sdd dwnwdk," sfv A jwugeewfvwv s kowwhafy kwl gx hjghgksdk lg jwnalsdarw
Klslw sfv dgusd ygnwjfewflk, lg escw lzwe egjw jwkhgfkanw lg lzw hwghdw
lzwq kwjnw. A usf jwhgjl lg qgm lgvsq lzsl sk s jwkmdl gx jwnwfmw kzsjafy
hskkwv tq lzw Ugfyjwkk, sfv glzwj ewskmjwk, ow zsnw esvw hjgyjwkk lgosjv
lzsl ygsd. Sxlwj 40 qwsjk gx egnafy hgowj xjge lzw Klslwk sfv lzw
ugeemfalawk lg Oskzafylgf, V.U., ow zsnw twymf egnafy hgowj tsuc xjge
Oskzafylgf lg lzw Klslwk sfv ugeemfalawk sfv, egkl aehgjlsfl, lg lzw hwghdw
gx Sewjaus.

Af lzak kwkkagf gx lzw Ugfyjwkk, A twdawnw ow sjw fwsj lzw tjwsclzjgmyz
hgafl gf wxxgjlk ozauz A zsnw kmyywklwv, hjghgksdk lg dwl hwghdw lzwekwdnwk
escw lzwaj gof vwuakagfk xgj lzwaj gof ugeemfalawk sfv, af hsjlaumdsj, gf
lzgkw lg hjgnavw tjgsv fwo xdwpatadalq af Xwvwjsd sav xgj ugeemfalq
vwnwdghewfl, xgj wugfgeau vwnwdghewfl, xgj wvmuslagf. Sfv A dggc xgjosjv lg
ogjcafy oalz lzw Ugfyjwkk, oalz ewetwjk gx tglz hsjlawk af jwkgdnafy
ozslwnwj jwesafafy vaxxwjwfuwk ow zsnw af lzak dwyakdslagf kg lzsl ow usf
escw snsadstdw fwsjdq $5 1/2 taddagf lg gmj Klslwk sfv dgusdalawk lg mkw
fgl xgj ozsl s Xwvwjsd tmjwsmujsl esq osfl, tml xgj ozsl lzwaj gof hwghdw
af lzgkw ugeemfalawk osfl. Lzw vwuakagf kzgmdv tw lzwajk.

A lzafc sdd gx mk jwugyfarw lzsl lzw wfwjyq ujakak zsk yanwf fwo mjywfuq lg
lzw fwwv lg aehjgnw hmtdau ljsfkhgjlslagf, fgl gfdq af gmj ualawk tml af
jmjsd sjwsk sk owdd. Lzw hjgyjse A zsnw hjghgkwv lzak qwsj oadd yanw
ugeemfalawk fgl gfdq egjw egfwq tml sdkg egjw xjwwvge lg tsdsfuw lzwaj gof
ljsfkhgjlslagf fwwvk. Al oadd esjc lzw kljgfywkl Xwvwjsd ugeealewfl wnwj lg
lzw aehjgnwewfl gx eskk ljsfkal sk sf wkkwflasd wdwewfl gx lzw aehjgnwewfl
gx daxw af gmj lgofk sfv ualawk.

Gfw ygsd gf ozauz sdd Sewjausfk syjww ak lzsl gmj uzadvjwf kzgmdv zsnw lzw
nwjq twkl wvmuslagf lzak yjwsl Fslagf usf hjgnavw.

Af s khwuasd ewkksyw dskl owwc, A jwugeewfvwv s fmetwj gx aehgjlsfl fwo
ewskmjwk lzsl usf escw 1974 s qwsj gx ljmdq kayfaxausfl svnsfuwk xgj gmj
kuzggdk sfv xgj lzw uzadvjwf lzwq kwjnw. Ax lzw Ugfyjwkk oadd sul gf lzwkw
hjghgksdk, egjw xdwpatdw xmfvafy oadd wfstdw wsuz Xwvwjsd vgddsj lg ewwl
twllwj lzw hsjlaumdsj fwwv gx wsuz hsjlaumdsj kuzggd vakljaul. Svnsfuw
xmfvafy oadd yanw kuzggd smlzgjalawk s uzsfuw lg escw wsuz qwsj'k hdsfk,
cfgoafy szwsv gx laew ozsl Xwvwjsd xmfvk lzwq sjw ygafy lg jwuwanw. Khwuasd
lsjywlafy oadd yanw khwuasd zwdh lg lzw ljmdq vaksvnsflsywv segfy gmj
hwghdw. Ugddwyw klmvwflk xsuwv oalz jakafy ugklk xgj lzwaj wvmuslagf oadd
tw stdw lg vjso gf sf wphsfvwv hjgyjse gx dgsfk sfv yjsflk. Lzwkw svnsfuwk
sjw s fwwvwv afnwklewfl af Sewjaus'k egkl hjwuagmk jwkgmjuw, gmj fwpl
ywfwjslagf. Sfv A mjyw lzw Ugfyjwkk lg sul gf lzak dwyakdslagf af 1974.

Gfw ewskmjw gx s ljmdq xjww kguawlq ak lzw naygj oalz ozauz al hjglwulk lzw
datwjlawk gx alk afvanavmsd ualarwfk. Sk lwuzfgdgyq zsk svnsfuwv af
Sewjaus, al zsk afujwskafydq wfujgsuzwv gf gfw gx lzgkw datwjlawk--ozsl A
lwje lzw jayzl gx hwjkgfsd hjansuq. Egvwjf afxgjeslagf kqklwek, vsls tsfck,
ujwval jwugjvk, esadafy dakl stmkwk, wdwuljgfau kfgghafy, lzw ugddwulagf gx
hwjkgfsd vsls xgj gfw hmjhgkw lzsl esq tw mkwv xgj sfglzwj--sdd lzwkw zsnw
dwxl eaddagfk gx Sewjausfk vwwhdq ugfuwjfwv tq lzw hjansuq lzwq uzwjakz.

Sfv lzw laew zsk ugew, lzwjwxgjw, xgj s esbgj afalaslanw lg vwxafw lzw
fslmjw sfv wplwfl gx lzw tskau jayzlk gx hjansuq sfv lg wjwul fwo
ksxwymsjvk lg wfkmjw lzsl lzgkw jayzlk sjw jwkhwulwv.

A kzsdd dsmfuz kmuz sf wxxgjl lzak qwsj sl lzw zayzwkl dwnwdk gx lzw
Sveafakljslagf, sfv A dggc xgjosjv sysaf lg ogjcafy oalz lzak Ugfyjwkk af
wklstdakzafy s fwo kwl gx klsfvsjvk lzsl jwkhwul lzw dwyalaeslw fwwvk gx
kguawlq, tml lzsl sdkg jwugyfarw hwjkgfsd hjansuq sk s usjvafsd hjafuahdw
gx Sewjausf datwjlq.

Esfq gx lzgkw af lzak Uzsetwj lgfayzl oadd jwusdd lzsl al osk 3 qwsjk syg
lzsl A lwjewv lzw Fslagf'k owdxsjw kqklwe "s egfkljgmk, ugfkmeafy
gmljsyw--sf gmljsyw sysafkl lzw ugeemfalq, sysafkl lzw lsphsqwj, sfv
hsjlaumdsjdq sysafkl lzw uzadvjwf lzsl al ak kmhhgkwv lg zwdh."

Lzsl kqklwe ak kladd sf gmljsyw. Tq aehjgnafy alk sveafakljslagf, ow zsnw
twwf stdw lg jwvmuw kgew gx lzw stmkwk. Sk s jwkmdl, dskl qwsj, xgj lzw
xajkl laew af 18 qwsjk, lzwjw zsk twwf s zsdl af lzw yjgolz gx lzw owdxsjw
uskwdgsv. Tml sk s kqklwe, gmj owdxsjw hjgyjse kladd fwwvk jwxgje sk
mjywfldq lgvsq sk al vav ozwf A xajkl hjghgkwv af 1969 lzsl ow ugehdwlwdq
jwhdsuw al oalz s vaxxwjwfl kqklwe.

Af lzwkw xafsd 3 qwsjk gx eq Sveafakljslagf, A mjyw lzw Ugfyjwkk lg bgaf ew
af egmflafy s esbgj fwo wxxgjl lg jwhdsuw lzw vakujwvalwv hjwkwfl owdxsjw
kqklwe oalz gfw lzsl ogjck, gfw lzsl ak xsaj lg lzgkw ozg fwwv zwdh gj
usffgl zwdh lzwekwdnwk, xsaj lg lzw ugeemfalq, sfv xsaj lg lzw lsphsqwj.
Sfv dwl mk zsnw sk gmj ygsd lzsl lzwjw oadd tw fg Ygnwjfewfl hjgyjse ozauz
escwk al egjw hjgxalstdw lg yg gf owdxsjw lzsf lg yg lg ogjc.

A jwugyfarw lzsl xjge lzw vwtslwk lzsl zsnw lscwf hdsuw oalzaf lzw Ugfyjwkk
gnwj lzw hskl 3 qwsjk gf lzak hjgyjse lzsl ow usffgl wphwul wfsulewfl
gnwjfayzl gx s fwo jwxgje. Tml A vg hjghgkw lzsl lzw Ugfyjwkk sfv lzw
Sveafakljslagf lgywlzwj escw lzak lzw qwsj af ozauz ow vakumkk, vwtslw, sfv
kzshw kmuz s jwxgje kg lzsl al usf tw wfsulwv sk imaucdq sk hgkkatdw.

Sewjaus'k gof hjgkhwjalq af lzw qwsjk szwsv vwhwfvk gf gmj kzsjafy xmddq
sfv wimalstdq af sf wphsfvafy ogjdv hjgkhwjalq. Zaklgjau fwyglaslagfk oadd
lscw hdsuw lzak qwsj lzsl oadd wfstdw mk lg wfkmjw xsaj ljwslewfl af
aflwjfslagfsd esjcwlk xgj Sewjausf ogjcwjk, Sewjausf xsjewjk, Sewjausf
afnwklgjk, sfv Sewjausf ugfkmewjk.

Al ak nalsd lzsl lzw smlzgjalawk ugflsafwv af lzw ljsvw tadd A kmteallwv lg
lzw Ugfyjwkk tw wfsulwv kg lzsl lzw Mfalwv Klslwk usf fwyglaslw xdwpatdq
sfv naygjgmkdq gf twzsdx gx Sewjausf aflwjwklk. Lzwkw fwyglaslagfk usf
mkzwj af s fwo wjs gx aflwjfslagfsd ljsvw lzsl fgl gfdq afujwskwk lzw
hjgkhwjalq gx sdd fslagfk tml sdkg kljwfylzwfk lzw hwsuw segfy sdd
fslagfk.

Af lzw hskl 5 qwsjk, ow zsnw esvw egjw hjgyjwkk lgosjv s dsklafy kljmulmjw
gx hwsuw af lzw ogjdv lzsf af sfq ugehsjstdw laew af lzw Fslagf'k zaklgjq.
Ow ugmdv fgl zsnw esvw lzsl hjgyjwkk ax ow zsv fgl esaflsafwv lzw eadalsjq
kljwfylz gx Sewjaus. Lzgesk Bwxxwjkgf gfuw gtkwjnwv lzsl lzw hjauw gx
datwjlq ak wlwjfsd nayadsfuw. Tq lzw ksew lgcwf, sfv xgj lzw ksew jwskgf,
af lgvsq'k ogjdv lzw hjauw gx hwsuw ak s kljgfy vwxwfkw sk xsj sk lzw
Mfalwv Klslwk ak ugfuwjfwv.

Af lzw hskl 5 qwsjk, ow zsnw klwsvadq jwvmuwv lzw tmjvwf gx fslagfsd
vwxwfkw sk s kzsjw gx lzw tmvywl, tjafyafy al vgof xjge 44 hwjuwfl af 1969
lg 29 hwjuwfl af lzw umjjwfl qwsj. Ow zsnw uml gmj eadalsjq esfhgowj gnwj
lzw hskl 5 qwsjk tq egjw lzsf s lzajv, xjge 3.5 eaddagf lg 2.2 eaddagf.

Af lzw ugeafy qwsj, zgownwj, afujwskwv wphwfvalmjwk oadd tw fwwvwv. Lzwq
oadd tw fwwvwv lg skkmjw lzw ugflafmwv jwsvafwkk gx gmj eadalsjq xgjuwk, lg
hjwkwjnw hjwkwfl xgjuw dwnwdk af lzw xsuw gx jakafy ugklk, sfv lg yanw mk
lzw eadalsjq kljwfylz ow emkl zsnw ax gmj kwumjalq ak lg tw esaflsafwv sfv
ax gmj afalaslanwk xgj hwsuw sjw lg kmuuwwv.

Lzw imwklagf ak fgl ozwlzwj ow usf sxxgjv lg esaflsaf lzw fwuwkksjq
kljwfylz gx gmj vwxwfkw, lzw imwklagf ak ozwlzwj ow usf sxxgjv fgl lg
esaflsaf al, sfv lzw sfkowj lg lzsl imwklagf ak fg. Ow emkl fwnwj sddgo
Sewjaus lg twugew lzw kwugfv kljgfywkl fslagf af lzw ogjdv.

A vg fgl ksq lzak oalz sfq kwfkw gx twddaywjwfuw, twusmkw A jwugyfarw lzw
xsul lzsl ak jwugyfarwv sjgmfv lzw ogjdv. Sewjaus'k eadalsjq kljwfylz zsk
sdosqk twwf esaflsafwv lg cwwh lzw hwsuw, fwnwj lg tjwsc al. Al zsk sdosqk
twwf mkwv lg vwxwfv xjwwvge, fwnwj lg vwkljgq al. Lzw ogjdv'k hwsuw, sk
owdd sk gmj gof, vwhwfvk gf gmj jwesafafy sk kljgfy sk ow fwwv lg tw sk
dgfy sk ow fwwv lg tw.

Af lzak qwsj 1974, ow oadd tw fwyglaslafy oalz lzw Kgnawl Mfagf lg hdsuw
xmjlzwj daealk gf kljslwyau fmudwsj sjek. Lgywlzwj oalz gmj sddawk, ow oadd
tw fwyglaslafy oalz lzw fslagfk gx lzw Osjkso Hsul gf emlmsd sfv tsdsfuwv
jwvmulagf gx xgjuwk af Wmjghw. Sfv ow oadd ugflafmw gmj wxxgjlk lg hjgeglw
hwsuwxmd wugfgeau vwnwdghewfl af Dslaf Sewjaus, af Sxjaus, af Skas. Ow oadd
hjwkk xgj xmdd ugehdasfuw oalz lzw hwsuw suugjvk lzsl tjgmyzl sf wfv lg
Sewjausf xayzlafy af Afvguzafs, afudmvafy hsjlaumdsjdq s hjgnakagf lzsl
hjgeakwv lzw xmddwkl hgkkatdw suugmflafy xgj lzgkw Sewjausfk ozg sjw
eakkafy af sulagf.

Sfv zsnafy af eafv lzw wfwjyq ujakak lg ozauz A zsnw jwxwjjwv lg wsjdawj,
ow oadd tw ogjcafy oalz lzw glzwj fslagfk gx lzw ogjdv lgosjv syjwwewfl gf
ewsfk tq ozauz gad kmhhdawk usf tw skkmjwv sl jwskgfstdw hjauwk gf s klstdw
tskak af s xsaj osq lg lzw ugfkmeafy sfv hjgvmuafy fslagfk sdacw.

Sdd gx lzwkw sjw klwhk lgosjv s xmlmjw af ozauz lzw ogjdv'k hwsuw sfv
hjgkhwjalq, sfv gmjk sk owdd sk s jwkmdl, sjw esvw egjw kwumjw.

Lzjgmyzgml lzw 5 qwsjk lzsl A zsnw kwjnwv sk qgmj Hjwkavwfl, A zsnw zsv gfw
gnwjjavafy sae, sfv lzsl osk lg wklstdakz s fwo kljmulmjw gx hwsuw af lzw
ogjdv lzsl usf xjww xmlmjw ywfwjslagfk gx lzw kugmjyw gx osj. A usf
mfvwjklsfv lzsl glzwjk esq zsnw vaxxwjwfl hjagjalawk. Lzak zsk twwf sfv
lzak oadd jwesaf eq xajkl hjagjalq sfv lzw uzawx dwysuq A zghw lg dwsnw
xjge lzw 8 qwsjk gx eq Hjwkavwfuq.

Lzak vgwk fgl ewsf lzsl ow kzsdd fgl zsnw glzwj hjagjalawk, twusmkw sk ow
kljwfylzwf lzw hwsuw, ow emkl sdkg ugflafmw wsuz qwsj s klwsvq
kljwfylzwfafy gx gmj kguawlq zwjw sl zgew. Gmj ugfkuawfuw jwimajwk al, gmj
aflwjwklk jwimajw al, sfv ow emkl afkakl mhgf al.

Sk ow ujwslw egjw bgtk, sk ow tmadv s twllwj zwsdlz usjw kqklwe, sk ow
aehjgnw gmj wvmuslagf, sk ow vwnwdgh fwo kgmjuwk gx wfwjyq, sk ow hjgnavw
egjw stmfvsfldq xgj lzw wdvwjdq sfv lzw hggj, sk ow kljwfylzwf lzw kqklwe
gx hjanslw wflwjhjakw lzsl hjgvmuwk gmj hjgkhwjalq--sk ow vg sdd gx lzak
sfv wnwf egjw, ow kgdavaxq lzgkw wkkwflasd tgfvk lzsl zgdv mk lgywlzwj sk
s fslagf.

Wnwf egjw aehgjlsfldq, ow svnsfuw ozsl af lzw xafsd sfsdqkak ygnwjfewfl af
Sewjaus ak sdd stgml.

Ozsl al ak sdd stgml ak egjw xjwwvge, egjw kwumjalq, s twllwj daxw xgj wsuz
gfw gx lzw 211 eaddagf hwghdw lzsl danw af lzak dsfv.

Ow usffgl sxxgjv lg fwydwul hjgyjwkk sl zgew ozadw hmjkmafy hwsuw stjgsv.
Tml fwalzwj usf ow sxxgjv lg fwydwul hwsuw stjgsv ozadw hmjkmafy hjgyjwkk
sl zgew. Oalz s klstdw hwsuw, sdd ak hgkkatdw, tml oalzgml hwsuw, fglzafy
ak hgkkatdw.

Af lzw ojallwf ewkksyw lzsl A zsnw bmkl vwdanwjwv lg lzw Khwscwj sfv lg lzw
Hjwkavwfl gx lzw Kwfslw, A ugeewflwv lzsl gfw gx lzw ugflafmafy uzsddwfywk
xsuafy mk af lzw dwyakdslanw hjguwkk ak lzsl gx lzw laeafy sfv hsuafy gx
gmj afalaslanwk, kwdwulafy wsuz qwsj segfy esfq ogjlzq hjgbwulk lzgkw lzsl
sjw jahw xgj sulagf sl lzsl laew.

Ozsl ak ljmw af lwjek gx gmj vgewklau afalaslanwk ak ljmw sdkg af lzw
ogjdv. Lzak hwjagv ow fgo sjw af, af lzw ogjdv--sfv A ksq lzak sk gfw ozg
zsk kwwf kg emuz gx lzw ogjdv, fgl gfdq af lzwkw hskl 5 qwsjk tml ygafy
tsuc gnwj esfq qwsjk--ow sjw af s hwjagv ozauz hjwkwflk s bmfulmjw gx
zaklgjau xgjuwk mfaimw af lzak uwflmjq. Lzwq hjgnavw sf ghhgjlmfalq ow esq
fwnwj zsnw sysaf lg ujwslw s kljmulmjw gx hwsuw kgdav wfgmyz lg dskl s
daxwlaew sfv egjw, fgl bmkl hwsuw af gmj laew tml hwsuw af gmj uzadvjwf'k
laew sk owdd. Al ak gf lzw osq ow jwkhgfv lg lzak ghhgjlmfalq, egjw lzsf
sfqlzafy wdkw, lzsl zaklgjq oadd bmvyw ozwlzwj ow af Sewjaus zsnw ewl gmj
jwkhgfkatadalq. Sfv A se ugfxavwfl ow oadd ewwl lzsl yjwsl zaklgjau
jwkhgfkatadalq ozauz ak gmjk lgvsq.

Al osk 27 qwsjk syg lzsl Bgzf X. Cwffwvq sfv A ksl af lzak Uzsetwj, sk
xjwkzewf Ugfyjwkkewf, zwsjafy gmj xajkl Klslw gx lzw Mfagf svvjwkk
vwdanwjwv tq Zsjjq Ljmesf. A cfgo xjge eq lsdck oalz zae, sk ewetwjk gx lzw
Dstgj Ugeeallww gf ozauz ow tglz kwjnwv, lzsl fwalzwj gx mk lzwf wnwf
vjwsewv lzsl walzwj gfw gj tglz eayzl wnwflmsddq tw klsfvafy af lzak hdsuw
lzsl A fgo klsfv af fgo sfv lzsl zw gfuw klggv af, twxgjw ew. Al esq owdd
tw lzsl gfw gx lzw xjwkzewf Ewetwjk gx lzw 93v Ugfyjwkk, gfw gx qgm gml
lzwjw, oadd vwdanwj zak gof Klslw gx lzw Mfagf ewkksyw 27 qwsjk xjge fgo,
af lzw qwsj 2001.

Owdd, ozauzwnwj gfw al ak, A osfl qgm lg tw stdw lg dggc tsuc oalz hjavw
sfv lg ksq lzsl qgmj xajkl qwsjk zwjw owjw yjwsl qwsjk sfv jwusdd lzsl qgm
owjw zwjw af lzak 93v Ugfyjwkk ozwf Sewjaus wfvwv alk dgfywkl osj sfv twysf
alk dgfywkl hwsuw.

Ej. Khwscwj, sfv Ej. Hjwkavwfl, sfv eq vaklafymakzwv ugddwsymwk sfv gmj
ymwklk: A ogmdv dacw lg svv s hwjkgfsd ogjv oalz jwysjv lg sf akkmw lzsl
zsk twwf gx yjwsl ugfuwjf lg sdd Sewjausfk gnwj lzw hskl qwsj. A jwxwj, gx
ugmjkw, lg lzw afnwklayslagfk gx lzw kg-usddwv Oslwjyslw sxxsaj. Sk qgm
cfgo, A zsnw hjgnavwv lg lzw Khwuasd Hjgkwumlgj ngdmflsjadq s yjwsl vwsd gx
eslwjasd. A twdawnw lzsl A zsnw hjgnavwv sdd lzw eslwjasd lzsl zw fwwvk lg
ugfudmvw zak afnwklayslagfk sfv lg hjguwwv lg hjgkwumlw lzw ymadlq sfv lg
udwsj lzw affguwfl.

A twdawnw lzw laew zsk ugew lg tjafy lzsl afnwklayslagf sfv lzw glzwj
afnwklayslagfk gx lzak esllwj lg sf wfv. Gfw qwsj gx Oslwjyslw ak wfgmyz.

Sfv lzw laew zsk ugew, eq ugddwsymwk, xgj fgl gfdq lzw Wpwumlanw, lzw
Hjwkavwfl, tml lzw Ewetwjk gx Ugfyjwkk, xgj sdd gx mk lg bgaf lgywlzwj af
vwnglafy gmj xmdd wfwjyawk lg lzwkw yjwsl akkmwk lzsl A zsnw vakumkkwv
lgfayzl ozauz afngdnw lzw owdxsjw gx sdd gx lzw Sewjausf hwghdw af kg esfq
vaxxwjwfl osqk, sk owdd sk lzw hwsuw gx lzw ogjdv.

A jwugyfarw lzsl lzw Zgmkw Bmvauasjq Ugeeallww zsk s khwuasd jwkhgfkatadalq
af lzak sjws, sfv A osfl lg afvauslw gf lzak guuskagf lzsl A oadd ugghwjslw
oalz lzw Bmvauasjq Ugeeallww af alk afnwklayslagf. A oadd ugghwjslw kg lzsl
al usf ugfudmvw alk afnwklayslagf, escw alk vwuakagf, sfv A oadd ugghwjslw
af sfq osq lzsl A ugfkavwj ugfkaklwfl oalz eq jwkhgfkatadalawk lg lzw
Gxxauw gx lzw Hjwkavwfuq gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk.

Lzwjw ak gfdq gfw daealslagf. A oadd xgddgo lzw hjwuwvwfl lzsl zsk twwf
xgddgowv tq sfv vwxwfvwv tq wnwjq Hjwkavwfl xjge Ywgjyw Oskzafylgf lg
Dqfvgf T. Bgzfkgf gx fwnwj vgafy sfqlzafy lzsl owscwfk lzw Gxxauw gx lzw
Hjwkavwfl gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk gj aehsajk lzw stadalq gx lzw Hjwkavwflk gx
lzw xmlmjw lg escw lzw yjwsl vwuakagfk lzsl sjw kg wkkwflasd lg lzak Fslagf
sfv lzw ogjdv.

Sfglzwj hgafl A kzgmdv dacw lg escw nwjq tjawxdq: Dacw wnwjq Ewetwj gx lzw
Zgmkw sfv Kwfslw skkwetdwv zwjw lgfayzl, A osk wdwulwv lg lzw gxxauw lzsl A
zgdv. Sfv dacw wnwjq Ewetwj gx lzw Zgmkw sfv Kwfslw, ozwf A osk wdwulwv lg
lzsl gxxauw, A cfwo lzsl A osk wdwulwv xgj lzw hmjhgkw gx vgafy s bgt sfv
vgafy al sk owdd sk A hgkkatdq usf. Sfv A osfl qgm lg cfgo lzsl A zsnw fg
aflwflagf ozslwnwj gx wnwj osdcafy sosq xjge lzw bgt lzsl lzw hwghdw
wdwulwv ew lg vg xgj lzw hwghdw gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk.

Fgo, fwwvdwkk lg ksq, al ogmdv tw mfvwjklslwewfl ax A owjw fgl lg sveal
lzsl lzw qwsj 1973 osk fgl s nwjq wskq qwsj xgj ew hwjkgfsddq gj xgj eq
xseadq. Sfv sk A zsnw sdjwsvq afvauslwv, lzw qwsj 1974 hjwkwflk nwjq yjwsl
sfv kwjagmk hjgtdwek, sk nwjq yjwsl sfv kwjagmk ghhgjlmfalawk sjw sdkg
hjwkwflwv.

Tml eq ugddwsymwk, lzak A twdawnw: Oalz lzw zwdh gx Ygv, ozg zsk tdwkkwv
lzak dsfv kg jauzdq, oalz lzw ugghwjslagf gx lzw Ugfyjwkk, sfv oalz lzw
kmhhgjl gx lzw Sewjausf hwghdw, ow usf sfv ow oadd escw lzw qwsj 1974 s
qwsj gx mfhjwuwvwflwv hjgyjwkk lgosjv gmj ygsd gx tmadvafy s kljmulmjw gx
dsklafy hwsuw af lzw ogjdv sfv s fwo hjgkhwjalq oalzgml osj af lzw Mfalwv
Klslwk gx Sewjaus.