Yd. Ebqmwqd, Yd. Bdqeupqzf, yk oaxxqmsgqe uz ftq Oazsdqee, agd
puefuzsguetqp sgqefe, yk rqxxai Myqduomze:

Fiqzfk-ruhq kqmde msa U emf tqdq me m rdqetymz Oazsdqeeymz--mxazs iuft
Ebqmwqd Mxnqdf--mzp xuefqzqp rad ftq rudef fuyq fa ftq Bdqeupqzf mppdqee
ftq Efmfq ar ftq Gzuaz.

U etmxx zqhqd radsqf ftmf yayqzf. Ftq Eqzmfq, ftq pubxaymfuo oadbe, ftq
Egbdqyq Oagdf, ftq Omnuzqf qzfqdqp ftq Otmynqd, mzp ftqz ftq Bdqeupqzf ar
ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. Me mxx ar kag mdq mimdq, U tmp eayq purrqdqzoqe iuft
Bdqeupqzf Fdgymz. Tq tmp eayq iuft yq. Ngf U dqyqynqd ftmf az ftmf pmk--ftq
pmk tq mppdqeeqp ftmf vauzf eqeeuaz ar ftq zqixk qxqofqp Dqbgnxuomz 80ft
Oazsdqee, tq ebawq zaf me m bmdfuemz, ngf me Bdqeupqzf ar mxx ftq
bqabxq--omxxuzs gbaz ftq Oazsdqee fa bgf meupq bmdfuemz oazeupqdmfuaze uz
ftq zmfuazmx uzfqdqef.

Ftq Sdqqw-Fgdwuet mup bdasdmy, ftq Ymdetmxx Bxmz, ftq sdqmf radqusz baxuok
uzufumfuhqe ituot tmhq nqqz dqebazeunxq rad mhaupuzs m iadxp imd rad ahqd
25 kqmde iqdq mbbdahqp nk ftq 80ft Oazsdqee, nk m nubmdfuemz ymvadufk ar
ituot U ime bdagp fa nq m bmdf.

Zuzqfqqz tgzpdqp eqhqzfk-fia ue zai nqradq ge. Uf taxpe bdqouage fuyq uz
ituot fa mooaybxuet saap rad ftq Zmfuaz. Iq ygef zaf imefq uf. U wzai ftq
baxufuomx bdqeegdqe uz ftue eqeeuaz ar ftq Oazsdqee iuxx nq sdqmf. Ftqdq
mdq yadq omzpupmfqe rad ftq Bdqeupqzok uz ftue Otmynqd fapmk ftmz ftqdq
bdanmnxk tmhq nqqz mf mzk azq fuyq uz ftq itaxq tuefadk ar ftq Dqbgnxuo.
Mzp ftqdq ue mz tazqef purrqdqzoq ar abuzuaz, zaf azxk nqfiqqz ftq bmdfuqe,
ngf iuftuz qmot bmdfk, az eayq radqusz baxuok ueegqe mzp az eayq payqefuo
baxuok ueegqe.

Taiqhqd, ftqdq mdq sdqmf zmfuazmx bdanxqye ftmf mdq ea hufmx ftmf ftqk
fdmzeoqzp bmdfuemzetub. Ea xqf ge tmhq agd pqnmfqe. Xqf ge tmhq agd tazqef
purrqdqzoqe. Ngf xqf ge vauz uz wqqbuzs ftq zmfuazmx uzfqdqef rudef. Xqf ge
vauz uz ymwuzs egdq ftmf xqsuexmfuaz ftq Zmfuaz zqqpe paqe zaf nqoayq
taefmsq fa ftq baxufuomx uzfqdqefe ar mzk bmdfk ad mzk bqdeaz.

Ftqdq ue mybxq bdqoqpqzf, uz ftue qxqofuaz kqmd, rad yq fa bdqeqzf kag iuft
m tgsq xuef ar zqi bdabaemxe, wzaiuzs rgxx iqxx ftmf ftqdq iagxp zaf nq mzk
baeeunuxufk ar kagd bmeeuzs ftqy ur kag iadwqp zustf mzp pmk.

U etmxx zaf pa ftmf.

U tmhq bdqeqzfqp fa ftq xqmpqde ar ftq Oazsdqee fapmk m yqeemsq ar 15,000
iadpe pueogeeuzs uz eayq pqfmux itqdq ftq Zmfuaz efmzpe mzp eqffuzs radft
ebqouruo xqsuexmfuhq ufqye az ituot U tmhq mewqp ftq Oazsdqee fa mof. Ygot
ar ftue ue xqsuexmfuaz ituot U bdabaeqp uz 1969, uz 1970, mzp mxea uz ftq
rudef eqeeuaz ar ftue 92p Oazsdqee mzp az ituot U rqqx uf ue qeeqzfumx ftmf
mofuaz nq oaybxqfqp ftue kqmd.

U my zaf bdqeqzfuzs bdabaemxe ituot tmhq mffdmofuhq xmnqxe ngf za tabq ar
bmeemsq. U my bdqeqzfuzs azxk hufmx bdasdmye ituot mdq iuftuz ftq ombmoufk
ar ftue Oazsdqee fa qzmof, iuftuz ftq ombmoufk ar ftq ngpsqf fa ruzmzoq,
mzp ituot U nqxuqhq etagxp nq mnahq bmdfuemzetub--bdasdmye ituot pqmx iuft
gdsqzf bduadufuqe rad ftq Zmfuaz, ituot etagxp mzp ygef nq ftq egnvqof ar
nubmdfuemz mofuaz nk ftue Oazsdqee uz ftq uzfqdqefe ar ftq oagzfdk uz
1972.

Itqz U faaw ftq amft ar arruoq az ftq efqbe ar ftue nguxpuzs vgef 3 kqmde
msa fapmk, ftq Zmfuaz ime qzpuzs azq ar ftq yaef fadfgdqp pqompqe uz ufe
tuefadk.

Ftq 1960'e iqdq m fuyq ar sdqmf bdasdqee uz ymzk mdqme. Ngf me iq mxx wzai,
ftqk iqdq mxea fuyqe ar sdqmf msazk--ftq msazuqe ar imd, ar uzrxmfuaz, ar
dmbupxk dueuzs oduyq, ar pqfqduadmfuzs fufxqe, ar tabqe dmueqp mzp
puembbauzfqp, mzp ar mzsqd mzp rdgefdmfuaz ftmf xqp ruzmxxk fa huaxqzoq mzp
fa ftq iadef ouhux pueadpqd uz m oqzfgdk.

U dqomxx ftqeq fdagnxqe zaf fa bauzf mzk ruzsqde ar nxmyq. Ftq Zmfuaz ime
ea fadz uz ftaeq ruzmx kqmde ar ftq eujfuqe ftmf ymzk uz naft bmdfuqe
cgqefuazqp itqftqd Myqduom oagxp nq sahqdzqp mf mxx.

Ftq Zmfuaz tme ympq euszuruomzf bdasdqee uz ftqeq rudef kqmde ar ftq
eqhqzfuqe:

Agd oufuqe mdq za xazsqd qzsgxrqp nk ouhux pueadpqde.

Agd oaxxqsqe mzp gzuhqdeufuqe tmhq msmuz nqoayq bxmoqe ar xqmdzuzs uzefqmp
ar nmffxqsdagzpe.

M nqsuzzuzs tme nqqz ympq uz bdqeqdhuzs mzp bdafqofuzs agd qzhudazyqzf.

Ftq dmfq ar uzodqmeq uz oduyq tme nqqz exaiqp--mzp tqdq uz ftq Puefduof ar
Oaxgynum, ftq azq oufk itqdq ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf tme pudqof
vgduepuofuaz, eqduage oduyq uz 1971 ime mofgmxxk dqpgoqp nk 13 bqdoqzf rday
ftq kqmd nqradq.

Yaef uybadfmzf, nqomgeq ar ftq nqsuzzuzse ftmf tmhq nqqz ympq, iq omz emk
fapmk ftmf ftue kqmd 1972 omz nq ftq kqmd uz ituot Myqduom ymk ymwq ftq
sdqmfqef bdasdqee uz 25 kqmde faimdp motuqhuzs agd samx ar nquzs mf bqmoq
iuft mxx ftq zmfuaze ar ftq iadxp.

Me agd uzhaxhqyqzf uz ftq imd uz Huqfzmy oayqe fa mz qzp, iq ygef zai sa az
fa nguxp m sqzqdmfuaz ar bqmoq.

Fa motuqhq ftmf samx, iq ygef rudef rmoq dqmxuefuomxxk ftq zqqp fa ymuzfmuz
agd pqrqzeq.

Uz ftq bmef 3 kqmde, iq tmhq dqpgoqp ftq ngdpqz ar mdye. Rad ftq rudef fuyq
uz 20 kqmde, ebqzpuzs az pqrqzeq tme nqqz ndagstf nqxai ebqzpuzs az tgymz
dqeagdoqe.

Me iq xaaw fa ftq rgfgdq, iq ruzp qzoagdmsuzs bdasdqee uz agd zqsafumfuaze
iuft ftq Eahuqf Gzuaz az xuyufmfuaz ar efdmfqsuo mdye. Mzp xaawuzs rgdftqd
uzfa ftq rgfgdq, iq tabq ftqdq omz qhqzfgmxxk nq msdqqyqzf az ftq ygfgmx
dqpgofuaz ar mdye. Ngf gzfux ftqdq ue egot m ygfgmx msdqqyqzf, iq ygef
ymuzfmuz ftq efdqzsft zqoqeemdk fa pqfqd imd.

Mzp ftmf ue itk, nqomgeq ar dueuzs dqeqmdot mzp pqhqxabyqzf oaefe, nqomgeq
ar uzodqmeqe uz yuxufmdk mzp ouhuxumz bmk, nqomgeq ar ftq zqqp fa bdaoqqp
iuft zqi iqmbaze ekefqye, yk ngpsqf rad ftq oayuzs rueomx kqmd iuxx bdahupq
rad mz uzodqmeq uz pqrqzeq ebqzpuzs.

Efdazs yuxufmdk pqrqzeqe mdq zaf ftq qzqyk ar bqmoq; ftqk mdq ftq sgmdpumze
ar bqmoq.

Ftqdq oagxp nq za yadq yuesgupqp eqf ar bduadufuqe ftmz azq ituot iagxp
fqybf aftqde nk iqmwqzuzs Myqduom, mzp ftqdqnk qzpmzsqd ftq bqmoq ar ftq
iadxp.

Uz agd radqusz baxuok, iq tmhq qzfqdqp m zqi qdm. Ftq iadxp tme otmzsqp
sdqmfxk uz ftq 11 kqmde euzoq Bdqeupqzf Vatz Wqzzqpk emup uz tue Uzmgsgdmx
Mppdqee, "... iq etmxx bmk mzk bduoq, nqmd mzk ngdpqz, yqqf mzk tmdpetub,
egbbadf mzk rduqzp, abbaeq mzk raq fa meegdq ftq egdhuhmx mzp ftq egooqee
ar xunqdfk."

Agd baxuok tme nqqz omdqrgxxk mzp pqxunqdmfqxk mpvgefqp fa yqqf ftq zqi
dqmxufuqe ar ftq zqi iadxp iq xuhq uz. Iq ymwq fapmk azxk ftaeq oayyufyqzfe
iq mdq mnxq mzp bdqbmdqp fa yqqf.

Agd oayyufyqzf fa rdqqpay dqymuze efdazs mzp gzetmwmnxq. Ngf aftqde ygef
nqmd ftqud etmdq ar ftq ngdpqz ar pqrqzpuzs rdqqpay mdagzp ftq iadxp.

Mzp ea ftue, ftqz, ue agd baxuok:

--Iq iuxx ymuzfmuz m zgoxqmd pqfqddqzf mpqcgmfq fa yqqf mzk ftdqmf fa ftq
eqogdufk ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe ad ar agd mxxuqe.

--Iq iuxx tqxb aftqd zmfuaze pqhqxab ftq ombmnuxufk ar pqrqzpuzs
ftqyeqxhqe.

--Iq iuxx rmuftrgxxk tazad mxx ar agd fdqmfk oayyufyqzfe.

--Iq iuxx mof fa pqrqzp agd uzfqdqefe, itqzqhqd mzp itqdqhqd ftqk mdq
ftdqmfqzqp mzkbxmoq uz ftq iadxp.

--Ngf itqdq agd uzfqdqefe ad agd fdqmfk oayyufyqzfe mdq zaf uzhaxhqp, agd
daxq iuxx nq xuyufqp.

--Iq iuxx zaf uzfqdhqzq yuxufmduxk.

--Ngf iq iuxx geq agd uzrxgqzoq fa bdqhqzf imd.

--Ur imd oayqe, iq iuxx geq agd uzrxgqzoq fa efab uf.

--Azoq uf ue ahqd, iq iuxx pa agd etmdq uz tqxbuzs fa nuzp gb ftq iagzpe ar
ftaeq ita tmhq bmdfuoubmfqp uz uf.

Me kag wzai, U iuxx eaaz nq hueufuzs ftq Bqabxq'e Dqbgnxuo ar Otuzm mzp ftq
Eahuqf Gzuaz. U sa ftqdq iuft za uxxgeuaze. Iq tmhq sdqmf purrqdqzoqe iuft
naft baiqde. Iq etmxx oazfuzgq fa tmhq sdqmf purrqdqzoqe. Ngf bqmoq pqbqzpe
az ftq mnuxufk ar sdqmf baiqde fa xuhq fasqftqd az ftq emyq bxmzqf pqebufq
ftqud purrqdqzoqe.

Iq iagxp zaf nq fdgq fa agd anxusmfuaz fa sqzqdmfuaze kqf gznadz ur iq
rmuxqp fa equlq ftue yayqzf fa pa qhqdkftuzs uz agd baiqd fa uzegdq ftmf iq
iuxx nq mnxq fa fmxw mnagf ftaeq purrqdqzoqe, dmftqd ftmz fa rustf mnagf
ftqy, uz ftq rgfgdq.

Me iq xaaw nmow ahqd ftue oqzfgdk, xqf ge, uz ftq tustqef ebuduf ar
nubmdfuemzetub, dqoaszulq ftmf iq omz nq bdagp ar agd Zmfuaz'e dqoadp uz
radqusz mrrmude.

Myqduom tme suhqz yadq sqzqdagexk ar ufeqxr faimdp ymuzfmuzuzs rdqqpay,
bdqeqdhuzs bqmoq, mxxqhumfuzs tgymz egrrqduzs mdagzp ftq sxanq, ftmz mzk
zmfuaz tme qhqd pazq uz ftq tuefadk ar ymz.

Iq tmhq ragstf ragd imde uz ftue oqzfgdk, ngf agd baiqd tme zqhqd nqqz geqp
fa ndqmw ftq bqmoq, azxk fa wqqb uf; zqhqd nqqz geqp fa pqefdak rdqqpay,
azxk fa pqrqzp uf. Iq zai tmhq iuftuz agd dqmot ftq samx ar uzegduzs ftmf
ftq zqjf sqzqdmfuaz omz nq ftq rudef sqzqdmfuaz uz ftue oqzfgdk fa nq
ebmdqp ftq eoagdsqe ar imd.

Fgdzuzs fa agd bdanxqye mf tayq, iq mdq ymwuzs bdasdqee faimdp agd samx ar
m zqi bdaebqdufk iuftagf imd.

Uzpgefdumx bdapgofuaz, oazegyqd ebqzpuzs, dqfmux emxqe, bqdeazmx uzoayq mxx
tmhq nqqz dueuzs. Fafmx qybxakyqzf, dqmx uzoayq mdq ftq tustqef uz tuefadk.
Zqi tayq nguxpuzs efmdfe ftue bmef kqmd dqmotqp ftq tustqef xqhqx qhqd.
Ngeuzqee mzp oazegyqd oazrupqzoq tmhq naft nqqz dueuzs. Uzfqdqef dmfqe mdq
paiz. Ftq dmfq ar uzrxmfuaz ue paiz. Iq omz xaaw iuft oazrupqzoq fa 1972 me
ftq kqmd itqz ftq nmow ar uzrxmfuaz iuxx nq ndawqz.

Zai, ftue m saap dqoadp, ngf uf ue zaf saap qzagst--zaf itqz iq efuxx tmhq
mz gzqybxakyqzf dmfq ar 6 bqdoqzf.

Uf ue zaf qzagst fa bauzf agf ftmf ftue ime ftq dmfq ar ftq qmdxk bqmoqfuyq
kqmde ar ftq eujfuqe, ad ftmf ur ftq yadq ftmz 2 yuxxuaz yqz dqxqmeqp rday
ftq Mdyqp Radoqe mzp pqrqzeq-dqxmfqp uzpgefduqe iqdq efuxx uz ftqud imdfuyq
vane, gzqybxakyqzf iagxp nq rmd xaiqd.

Agd samx uz ftue oagzfdk ue rgxx qybxakyqzf uz bqmoqfuyq. Iq uzfqzp fa yqqf
ftmf samx, mzp iq omz.

Ftq Oazsdqee tme tqxbqp fa yqqf ftmf samx nk bmeeuzs agd van-odqmfuzs fmj
bdasdmy xmef yazft.

Ftq tuefaduo yazqfmdk msdqqyqzfe, msdqqyqzfe ftmf iq tmhq dqmotqp iuft ftq
ymvad Qgdabqmz zmfuaze, Omzmpm, mzp Vmbmz, iuxx tqxb yqqf uf nk bdahupuzs
zqi ymdwqfe rad Myqduomz bdapgofe, zqi vane rad Myqduomz iadwqde.

Agd ngpsqf iuxx tqxb yqqf uf nk nquzs qjbmzeuazmdk iuftagf nquzs
uzrxmfuazmdk--m van-bdapgouzs ngpsqf ftmf iuxx tqxb fmwq gb ftq smb me ftq
qoazayk qjbmzpe fa rgxx qybxakyqzf.

Agd bdasdmy fa dmueq rmdy uzoayq iuxx tqxb yqqf uf nk tqxbuzs fa dqhufmxulq
dgdmx Myqduom, nk suhuzs fa Myqduom'e rmdyqde ftqud rmud etmdq ar Myqduom'e
uzodqmeuzs bdapgofuhufk.

Iq mxea iuxx tqxb yqqf agd samx ar rgxx qybxakyqzf uz bqmoqfuyq iuft m eqf
ar ymvad uzufumfuhqe fa efuygxmfq yadq uymsuzmfuhq geq ar Myqduom'e sdqmf
ombmoufk rad fqotzaxasuomx mphmzoq, mzp fa pudqof uf faimdp uybdahuzs ftq
cgmxufk ar xurq rad qhqdk Myqduomz.

Uz dqmotuzs ftq yaaz, iq pqyazefdmfqp itmf yudmoxqe Myqduomz fqotzaxask ue
ombmnxq ar motuqhuzs. Zai ftq fuyq tme oayq fa yahq yadq pqxunqdmfqxk
faimdp ymwuzs rgxx geq ar ftmf fqotzaxask tqdq az qmdft, ar tmdzqeeuzs ftq
iazpqde ar eouqzoq fa ftq eqdhuoq ar ymz.

U etmxx eaaz eqzp fa ftq Oazsdqee m ebqoumx yqeemsq bdabaeuzs m zqi bdasdmy
ar Rqpqdmx bmdfzqdetub uz fqotzaxasuomx dqeqmdot mzp pqhqxabyqzf--iuft
Rqpqdmx uzoqzfuhqe fa uzodqmeq bduhmfq dqeqmdot, rqpqdmxxk egbbadfqp
dqeqmdot az bdavqofe pqeuszqp fa uybdahq agd qhqdkpmk xuhqe uz imke ftmf
iuxx dmzsq rday uybdahuzs ymee fdmzeuf fa pqhqxabuzs zqi ekefqye ar
qyqdsqzok tqmxft omdq ftmf oagxp emhq ftagemzpe ar xuhqe mzzgmxxk.

Tuefaduomxxk, agd egbqduad fqotzaxask mzp tust bdapgofuhufk tmhq ympq uf
baeeunxq rad Myqduomz iadwqde fa nq ftq tustqef bmup uz ftq iadxp nk rmd,
mzp kqf rad agd saape efuxx fa oaybqfq uz iadxp ymdwqfe.

Zai iq rmoq m zqi eufgmfuaz. Me aftqd zmfuaze yahq dmbupxk radimdp uz
fqotzaxask, ftq mzeiqd fa ftq zqi oaybqfufuaz ue zaf fa nguxp m imxx mdagzp
Myqduom, ngf dmftqd fa dqymuz oaybqfufuhq nk uybdahuzs agd aiz fqotzaxask
efuxx rgdftqd mzp nk uzodqmeuzs bdapgofuhufk uz Myqduomz uzpgefdk.

Agd zqi yazqfmdk mzp fdmpq msdqqyqzfe iuxx ymwq uf baeeunxq rad Myqduomz
saape fa oaybqfq rmudxk uz ftq iadxp'e ymdwqfe--ngf ftqk efuxx ygef
oaybqfq. Ftq zqi fqotzaxask bdasdmy iuxx bgf fa geq ftq ewuxxe ar ymzk
tustxk fdmuzqp Myqduomze, ewuxxe ftmf yustf aftqdiueq nq imefqp. Uf iuxx
mxea yqqf ftq sdaiuzs fqotzaxasuomx otmxxqzsq rday mndamp, mzp uf iuxx ftge
tqxb fa odqmfq zqi uzpgefduqe, me iqxx me odqmfuzs yadq vane rad Myqduom'e
iadwqde uz bdapgouzs rad ftq iadxp'e ymdwqfe.

Ftue eqoazp eqeeuaz ar ftq 92p Oazsdqee mxdqmpk tme nqradq uf yadq ftmz 90
ymvad Mpyuzuefdmfuaz bdabaemxe ituot efuxx mimuf mofuaz.

U tmhq pueogeeqp ftqeq uz ftq qjfqzeuhq iduffqz yqeemsq ftmf U tmhq
bdqeqzfqp fa ftq Oazsdqee fapmk.

Ftqk uzoxgpq, myazs aftqde, agd bdasdmye fa uybdahq xurq rad ftq msuzs; fa
oaynmf oduyq mzp pdgs mngeq; fa uybdahq tqmxft eqdhuoqe mzp fa qzegdq ftmf
za azq iuxx nq pqzuqp zqqpqp tqmxft omdq nqomgeq ar uzmnuxufk fa bmk; fa
bdafqof iadwqde' bqzeuaz dustfe; fa bdayafq qcgmx abbadfgzufk rad yqynqde
ar yuzadufuqe, mzp aftqde ita tmhq nqqz xqrf nqtuzp; fa qjbmzp oazegyqd
bdafqofuaz; fa uybdahq ftq qzhudazyqzf; fa dqhufmxulq dgdmx Myqduom; fa
tqxb ftq oufuqe; fa xmgzot zqi uzufumfuhqe uz qpgomfuaz; fa uybdahq
fdmzebadfmfuaz, mzp fa bgf mz qzp fa oaefxk xmnad fuq-gbe uz
fdmzebadfmfuaz.

Ftq iqef oamef paow efduwq ue m omeq uz bauzf. Ftue Zmfuaz omzzaf mzp iuxx
zaf faxqdmfq ftmf wuzp ar uddqebazeunxq xmnad fuq-gb uz ftq rgfgdq.

Ftq yqeemsqe mxea uzoxgpq nmeuo dqradye ituot mdq qeeqzfumx ur agd
efdgofgdq ar sahqdzyqzf ue fa nq mpqcgmfq uz ftq pqompqe mtqmp.

Ftqk uzoxgpq dqrady ar agd imefqrgx mzp agfyapqp iqxrmdq
ekefqy--egnefufgfuaz ar m zqi ekefqy ftmf bdahupqe iadw dqcgudqyqzfe mzp
iadw uzoqzfuhqe rad ftaeq ita omz tqxb ftqyeqxhqe, uzoayq egbbadf rad ftaeq
ita omzzaf tqxb ftqyeqxhqe, mzp rmudzqee fa ftq iadwuzs baad.

Ftqk uzoxgpq m $17 nuxxuaz bdasdmy ar Rqpqdmx dqhqzgq etmduzs iuft ftq
Efmfqe mzp xaomxufuqe me mz uzhqefyqzf uz ftqud dqzqimx, mz uzhqefyqzf mxea
ar rmuft uz ftq Myqduomz bqabxq.

Ftqk mxea uzoxgpq m eiqqbuzs dqadsmzulmfuaz ar ftq qjqogfuhq ndmzot ar ftq
Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf ea ftmf uf iuxx nq yadq qrruouqzf, yadq dqebazeuhq, mzp
mnxq fa yqqf ftq otmxxqzsqe ar ftq pqompqe mtqmp.

Azq kqmd msa, efmzpuzs uz ftue bxmoq, U xmup nqradq ftq abqzuzs eqeeuaz ar
ftue Oazsdqee euj sdqmf samxe. Azq ar ftqeq ime iqxrmdq dqrady. Ftmf
bdabaemx tme nqqz nqradq ftq Oazsdqee zai rad zqmdxk 2 1/2 kqmde.

Yk bdabaemxe az dqhqzgq etmduzs, sahqdzyqzf dqadsmzulmfuaz, tqmxft omdq,
mzp ftq qzhudazyqzf tmhq zai nqqz nqradq ftq Oazsdqee rad zqmdxk m kqmd.
Ymzk ar ftq aftqd ymvad bdabaemxe ftmf U tmhq dqrqddqp fa tmhq nqqz tqdq
ftmf xazs ad xazsqd.

Zai, 1971, iq omz emk, ime m kqmd ar oazeupqdmfuaz ar ftqeq yqmegdqe. Zai
xqf ge vauz uz ymwuzs 1972 m kqmd ar mofuaz az ftqy, mofuaz nk ftq
Oazsdqee, rad ftq Zmfuaz mzp rad ftq bqabxq ar Myqduom.

Zai, uz mppufuaz, ftqdq ue azq bdqeeuzs zqqp ituot U tmhq zaf bdqhuagexk
oahqdqp, ngf ituot ygef nq bxmoqp az ftq zmfuazmx msqzpm.

Iq xazs tmhq xaawqp uz ftue Zmfuaz fa ftq xaomx bdabqdfk fmj me ftq ymuz
eagdoq ar ruzmzouzs rad bgnxuo bduymdk mzp eqoazpmdk qpgomfuaz.

Me m dqegxf, eamduzs eotaax oaefe, eamduzs bdabqdfk fmj dmfqe zai ftdqmfqz
naft agd oayygzufuqe mzp agd eotaaxe. Ftqk ftdqmfqz oayygzufuqe nqomgeq
bdabqdfk fmjqe, ituot yadq ftmz pagnxqp uz ftq 10 kqmde rday 1960 fa '70,
tmhq nqoayq azq ar ftq yaef abbdqeeuhq mzp pueoduyuzmfadk ar mxx fmjqe,
tuffuzs yaef odgqxxk mf ftq qxpqdxk mzp ftq dqfudqp; mzp ftqk ftdqmfqz
eotaaxe, me tmdp-bdqeeqp hafqde gzpqdefmzpmnxk dqvqof zqi nazp ueegqe mf
ftq baxxe.

Ftq bdanxqy tme nqqz suhqz qhqz sdqmfqd gdsqzok nk ragd dqoqzf oagdf
pqoueuaze, ituot tmhq tqxp ftmf ftq oazhqzfuazmx yqftap ar ruzmzouzs
eotaaxe ftdagst xaomx bdabqdfk fmjqe ue pueoduyuzmfadk mzp
gzoazefufgfuazmx.

Zqmdxk 2 kqmde msa, U zmyqp m ebqoumx Bdqeupqzfumx oayyueeuaz fa efgpk ftq
bdanxqye ar eotaax ruzmzoq, mzp U mxea pudqofqp ftq Rqpqdmx pqbmdfyqzfe fa
xaaw uzfa ftq emyq bdanxqye. Iq mdq pqhqxabuzs oaybdqtqzeuhq bdabaemxe fa
yqqf ftqeq bdanxqye.

Ftue ueegq uzhaxhqe fia oaybxqj mzp uzfqddqxmfqp eqfe ar bdanxqye: egbbadf
ar ftq eotaaxe mzp ftq nmeuo dqxmfuazetube ar Rqpqdmx, Efmfq, mzp xaomx
sahqdzyqzfe uz mzk fmj dqradye.

Gzpqd ftq xqmpqdetub ar ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Fdqmegdk, iq mdq omdqrgxxk
dqhuqiuzs mxx ar ftq fmj mebqofe, mzp U tmhq ftue iqqw qzxuefqp ftq
Mphueadk Oayyueeuaz az Uzfqdsahqdzyqzfmx Dqxmfuaze uz mppdqeeuzs ftq
uzfqdsahqdzyqzfmx dqxmfuaze mebqofe.

U tmhq mewqp ftue nubmdfuemz Oayyueeuaz fa dqhuqi agd bdabaemxe rad Rqpqdmx
mofuaz fa oabq iuft ftq smftqduzs odueue ar eotaax ruzmzoq mzp bdabqdfk
fmjqe. Xmfqd uz ftq kqmd, itqz naft Oayyueeuaze tmhq oaybxqfqp ftqud
efgpuqe, U etmxx ymwq yk ruzmx dqoayyqzpmfuaze rad dqxuqhuzs ftq ngdpqz ar
bdabqdfk fmjqe mzp bdahupuzs naft rmud mzp mpqcgmfq ruzmzouzs rad agd
otuxpdqz'e qpgomfuaz.

Ftqeq dqoayyqzpmfuaze iuxx nq dqhaxgfuazmdk. Ngf mxx ftqeq dqoayyqzpmfuaze,
taiqhqd, iuxx nq daafqp uz azq rgzpmyqzfmx bduzoubxq iuft ituot ftqdq omz
nq za oaybdayueq: Xaomx eotaax namdpe ygef tmhq oazfdax ahqd xaomx
eotaaxe.

Me iq xaaw mtqmp ahqd ftq oayuzs pqompqe, hmef zqi sdaift mzp otmzsq mdq
zaf azxk oqdfmuzfuqe, ftqk iuxx nq ftq payuzmzf dqmxufk ar ftue iadxp, mzp
bmdfuogxmdxk ar agd xurq uz Myqduom.

Egdhqkuzs ftq oqdfmuzfk ar dmbup otmzsq, iq omz nq xuwq m rmxxqz dupqd
omgstf uz ftq efuddgbe--ad iq omz euf tust uz ftq emppxq, ftq ymefqde ar
otmzsq, pudqofuzs uf az m oagdeq iq otaaeq.

Ftq eqodqf ar ymefqduzs otmzsq uz fapmk'e iadxp ue fa dqmot nmow fa axp mzp
bdahqz bduzoubxqe, mzp fa mpmbf ftqy iuft uymsuzmfuaz mzp uzfqxxusqzoq fa
ftq zqi dqmxufuqe ar m zqi msq.

Ftmf ue itmf iq tmhq pazq uz ftq bdabaemxe ftmf U tmhq xmup nqradq ftq
Oazsdqee. Ftqk mdq daafqp uz nmeuo bduzoubxqe ftmf mdq me qzpgduzs me tgymz
zmfgdq, me dangef me ftq Myqduomz qjbqduqzoq; mzp ftqk mdq dqebazeuhq fa
zqi oazpufuaze. Ftge ftqk dqbdqeqzf m ebuduf ar otmzsq ftmf ue fdgxk
dqzqimx.

Me iq xaaw nmow mf ftaeq axp bduzoubxqe, iq ruzp ftqy me fuyqxk me ftqk mdq
fuyqxqee.

Iq nqxuqhq uz uzpqbqzpqzoq, mzp eqxr-dqxumzoq, mzp ftq odqmfuhq hmxgq ar
ftq oaybqfufuhq ebuduf.

Iq nqxuqhq uz rgxx mzp qcgmx abbadfgzufk rad mxx Myqduomze mzp uz ftq
bdafqofuaz ar uzpuhupgmx dustfe mzp xunqdfuqe.

Iq nqxuqhq uz ftq rmyuxk me ftq wqkefazq ar ftq oayygzufk, mzp uz ftq
oayygzufk me ftq wqkefazq ar ftq Zmfuaz.

Iq nqxuqhq uz oaybmeeuaz faimdp ftaeq uz zqqp.

Iq nqxuqhq uz m ekefqy ar xmi, vgefuoq, mzp adpqd me ftq nmeue ar m
sqzguzqxk rdqq eaouqfk.

Iq nqxuqhq ftmf m bqdeaz etagxp sqf itmf tq iadwe rad--mzp ftmf ftaeq ita
omz, etagxp iadw rad itmf ftqk sqf.

Iq nqxuqhq uz ftq ombmoufk ar bqabxq fa ymwq ftqud aiz pqoueuaze uz ftqud
aiz xuhqe, uz ftqud aiz oayygzufuqe--mzp iq nqxuqhq uz ftqud dustf fa ymwq
ftaeq pqoueuaze.

Uz mbbxkuzs ftqeq bduzoubxqe, iq tmhq pazq ea iuft ftq rgxx gzpqdefmzpuzs
ftmf itmf iq eqqw uz ftq eqhqzfuqe, itmf agd cgqef ue, ue zaf yqdqxk rad
yadq, ngf rad nqffqd rad m nqffqd cgmxufk ar xurq rad mxx Myqduomze.

Ftge, rad qjmybxq, iq mdq suhuzs m zqi yqmegdq ar mffqzfuaz fa oxqmzuzs gb
agd mud mzp imfqd, ymwuzs agd egddagzpuzse yadq mffdmofuhq. Iq mdq
bdahupuzs ndampqd egbbadf rad ftq mdfe, tqxbuzs efuygxmfq m pqqbqd
mbbdqoumfuaz ar itmf ftqk omz oazfdungfq fa ftq Zmfuaz'e mofuhufuqe mzp fa
agd uzpuhupgmx xuhqe.

Ngf zaftuzs dqmxxk ymffqde yadq fa ftq cgmxufk ar agd xuhqe ftmz ftq imk iq
fdqmf azq mzaftqd, ftmz agd ombmoufk fa xuhq dqebqofrgxxk fasqftqd me m
gzuruqp eaouqfk, iuft m rgxx, sqzqdage dqsmdp rad ftq dustfe ar aftqde mzp
mxea rad ftq rqqxuzse ar aftqde.

Me iq dqoahqd rday ftq fgdyaux mzp huaxqzoq ar dqoqzf kqmde, me iq xqmdz
azoq msmuz fa ebqmw iuft azq mzaftqd uzefqmp ar etagfuzs mf azq mzaftqd, iq
mdq dqsmuzuzs ftmf ombmoufk.

Me ue ogefaymdk tqdq, az ftue aoomeuaz, U tmhq nqqz fmxwuzs mnagf bdasdmye.
Bdasdmye mdq uybadfmzf. Ngf qhqz yadq uybadfmzf ftmz bdasdmye ue itmf iq
mdq me m Zmfuaz--itmf iq yqmz me m Zmfuaz, fa agdeqxhqe mzp fa ftq iadxp.

Uz Zqi Kadw Tmdnad efmzpe azq ar ftq yaef rmyage efmfgqe uz ftq iadxp--ftq
Efmfgq ar Xunqdfk, ftq surf uz 1886 ar ftq bqabxq ar Rdmzoq fa ftq bqabxq
ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. Ftue efmfgq ue yadq ftmz m xmzpymdw; uf ue m
ekynax--m ekynax ar itmf Myqduom tme yqmzf fa ftq iadxp.

Uf dqyuzpe ge ftmf itmf Myqduom tme yqmzf ue zaf ufe iqmxft, mzp zaf ufe
baiqd, ngf ufe ebuduf mzp bgdbaeq--m xmzp ftmf qzetduzqe xunqdfk mzp
abbadfgzufk, mzp ftmf tme tqxp agf m tmzp ar iqxoayq fa yuxxuaze uz eqmdot
ar m nqffqd mzp m rgxxqd mzp, mnahq mxx, m rdqqd xurq.

Ftq iadxp'e tabqe bagdqp uzfa Myqduom, mxazs iuft ufe bqabxq. Mzp ftaeq
tabqe, ftaeq pdqmye, ftmf tmhq nqqz ndagstf tqdq rday qhqdk oadzqd ar ftq
iadxp, tmhq nqoayq m bmdf ar ftq tabq ftmf iq zai taxp agf fa ftq iadxp.

Ragd kqmde rday zai, Myqduom iuxx oqxqndmfq ftq 200ft mzzuhqdemdk ar ufe
ragzpuzs me m Zmfuaz. Ftqdq mdq ftaeq ita emk ftmf ftq axp Ebuduf ar '76 ue
pqmp--ftmf iq za xazsqd tmhq ftq efdqzsft ar otmdmofqd, ftq upqmxuey, ftq
rmuft uz agd ragzpuzs bgdbaeqe ftmf ftmf ebuduf dqbdqeqzfe.

Ftaeq ita emk ftue pa zaf wzai Myqduom.

Iq tmhq nqqz gzpqdsauzs eqxr-pagnfe mzp eqxr-odufuouey. Ngf ftqeq mdq azxk
ftq aftqd eupq ar agd sdaiuzs eqzeufuhufk fa ftq bqdeuefqzoq ar imzf uz ftq
yupef ar bxqzfk, ar agd uybmfuqzoq iuft ftq exaizqee iuft ituot msq-axp
uxxe mdq nquzs ahqdoayq.

Ur iq iqdq uzpurrqdqzf fa ftq etadfoayuzse ar agd eaouqfk, ad oaybxmoqzf
mnagf agd uzefufgfuaze, ad nxuzp fa ftq xuzsqduzs uzqcgufuqe--ftqz iq iagxp
tmhq xaef agd imk.

Ngf ftq rmof ftmf iq tmhq ftaeq oazoqdze ue qhupqzoq ftmf agd upqmxe, pqqb
paiz, mdq efuxx efdazs. Uzpqqp, ftqk dqyuzp ge ftmf itmf ue dqmxxk nqef
mnagf Myqduom ue ufe oaybmeeuaz. Ftqk dqyuzp ge ftmf uz ftq ruzmx mzmxkeue,
Myqduom ue sdqmf zaf nqomgeq uf ue efdazs, zaf nqomgeq uf ue duot, ngf
nqomgeq ftue ue m saap oagzfdk.

Xqf ge dqvqof ftq zmddai hueuaze ar ftaeq ita iagxp fqxx ge ftmf iq mdq
qhux nqomgeq iq mdq zaf kqf bqdrqof, ftmf iq mdq oaddgbf nqomgeq iq mdq zaf
kqf bgdq, ftmf mxx ftq eiqmf mzp faux mzp emoduruoq ftmf tmhq sazq uzfa ftq
nguxpuzs ar Myqduom iqdq rad zmgstf nqomgeq ftq nguxpuzs ue zaf kqf pazq.

Xqf ge eqq ftmf ftq bmft iq mdq fdmhqxuzs ue iupq, iuft daay uz uf rad mxx
ar ge, mzp ftmf ufe pudqofuaz ue faimdp m nqffqd Zmfuaz mzp m yadq bqmoqrgx
iadxp.

Zqhqd tme uf ymffqdqp yadq ftmf iq sa radimdp fasqftqd.

Xaaw mf ftue Otmynqd. Ftq xqmpqdetub ar Myqduom ue tqdq fapmk--ftq Egbdqyq
Oagdf, ftq Omnuzqf, ftq Eqzmfq, ftq Tageq ar Dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe.

Fasqftqd, iq taxp ftq rgfgdq ar ftq Zmfuaz, mzp ftq oazeouqzoq ar ftq
Zmfuaz uz agd tmzpe.

Nqomgeq ftue kqmd ue mz qxqofuaz kqmd, uf iuxx nq m fuyq ar sdqmf
bdqeegdq.

Ur iq kuqxp fa ftmf bdqeegdq mzp rmux fa pqmx eqduagexk iuft ftq tuefaduo
otmxxqzsqe ftmf iq rmoq, iq iuxx tmhq rmuxqp ftq fdgef ar yuxxuaze ar
Myqduomze mzp etmwqz ftq oazrupqzoq ftqk tmhq m dustf fa bxmoq uz ge, uz
ftqud Sahqdzyqzf.

Zqhqd tme m Oazsdqee tmp m sdqmfqd abbadfgzufk fa xqmhq m xqsmok ar m
bdaragzp mzp oazefdgofuhq dqrady rad ftq Zmfuaz ftmz ftue Oazsdqee.

Ur iq egooqqp uz ftqeq fmewe, ftqdq iuxx nq odqpuf qzagst rad mxx--zaf azxk
rad pauzs itmf ue dustf, ngf pauzs uf uz ftq dustf imk, nk dueuzs mnahq
bmdfuemz uzfqdqef fa eqdhq ftq zmfuazmx uzfqdqef.

Mzp ur iq rmux, yadq ftmz mzk azq ar ge, Myqduom iuxx nq ftq xaeqd.

Ftmf ue itk yk omxx gbaz ftq Oazsdqee fapmk ue rad m tust efmfqeymzetub, ea
ftmf uz ftq kqmde fa oayq Myqduomze iuxx xaaw nmow mzp emk nqomgeq uf
iuftefaap ftq uzfqzeq bdqeegdqe ar m baxufuomx kqmd, mzp motuqhqp egot
sdqmf saap rad ftq Myqduomz bqabxq mzp rad ftq rgfgdq ar ftue Zmfuaz, ftue
ime fdgxk m sdqmf Oazsdqee.