Hm. Nkzvfzm, Hm. Qdxz Kmzndyzio, hzhwzmn ja Xjibmznn, ydnodibpdnczy bpznon,
viy azggjr Vhzmdxvin:

Gvno hjioc, D rzio oj Viymzrn Vdm Ajmxz Wvnz viy rzgxjhzy cjhz njhz ja jpm
gvno omjjkn oj nzmqz di Dmvl. Ojbzoczm, rz jaazmzy v adivg, kmjpy nvgpoz oj
ocz xjgjmn piyzm rcdxc hjmz ocvi v hdggdji ja jpm azggjr xdoduzin ajpbco -- viy
nzqzmvg ocjpnviy bvqz oczdm gdqzn.

Rz bvoczm ojidbco fijrdib ocvo ocdn bzizmvodji ja czmjzn cvn hvyz ocz Pidozy
Novozn nvazm viy hjmz mznkzxozy vmjpiy ocz rjmgy. Ajm ocz admno odhz di idiz
tzvmn, oczmz vmz ij Vhzmdxvin adbcodib di Dmvl. Ajm ocz admno odhz di orj
yzxvyzn, Jnvhv wdi Gvyzi dn ijo v ocmzvo oj ocdn xjpiomt. Hjno ja vg-Lvzyv'n
ojk gdzpozivion cvqz wzzi yzazvozy. Ocz Ovgdwvi'n hjhzioph cvn wzzi wmjfzi,
viy njhz omjjkn di Vabcvidnovi cvqz wzbpi oj xjhz cjhz.

Ocznz vxcdzqzhzion vmz v oznovhzio oj ocz xjpmvbz, nzgagznniznn, viy ozvhrjmf
ja Vhzmdxv'n Vmhzy Ajmxzn. Vo v odhz rczi ojj hvit ja jpm dinodopodjin cvqz
gzo pn yjri, oczt zsxzzy vgg zskzxovodjin. Oczt'mz ijo xjinphzy rdoc kzmnjivg
vhwdodji. Oczt yji'o jwnznn jqzm oczdm ydaazmzixzn. Oczt ajxpn ji ocz hdnndji
vo cviy. Oczt rjmf ojbzoczm.

Dhvbdiz rcvo rz xjpgy vxxjhkgdnc da rz ajggjrzy oczdm zsvhkgz. Ocdif vwjpo ocz
Vhzmdxv rdocdi jpm mzvxc: V xjpiomt ocvo gzvyn ocz rjmgy di zypxvodib don
kzjkgz. Vi Vhzmdxv ocvo voomvxon v izr bzizmvodji ja cdbc-ozxc hvipavxopmdib
viy cdbc-kvtdib ejwn. V apopmz rczmz rz'mz di xjiomjg ja jpm jri zizmbt, viy
jpm nzxpmdot viy kmjnkzmdot vmzi'o nj odzy oj pinovwgz kvmon ja ocz rjmgy. Vi
zxjijht wpdgo oj gvno, rczmz cvmy rjmf kvtn jaa, viy mznkjindwdgdot dn
mzrvmyzy.

Rz xvi yj ocdn. D fijr rz xvi, wzxvpnz rz'qz yjiz do wzajmz. Vo ocz ziy ja
Rjmgy Rvm DD, rczi vijoczm bzizmvodji ja czmjzn mzopmizy cjhz amjh xjhwvo,
oczt wpdgo ocz nomjibzno zxjijht viy hdyygz xgvnn ocz rjmgy cvn zqzm fijri. Ht
bmviyavoczm, v qzozmvi ja Kvooji'n Vmht, bjo ocz xcvixz oj bj oj xjggzbz ji
ocz BD Wdgg. Ht bmviyhjoczm, rcj rjmfzy ji v wjhwzm vnnzhwgt gdiz, rvn kvmo ja
v rjmfajmxz ocvo opmizy jpo ocz wzno kmjypxon ji Zvmoc.

Ocz orj ja oczh ncvmzy ocz jkodhdnh ja v Ivodji ocvo cvy omdphkczy jqzm v
yzkmznndji viy avnxdnh. Oczt piyzmnojjy oczt rzmz kvmo ja njhzocdib gvmbzm;
ocvo oczt rzmz xjiomdwpodib oj v nojmt ja npxxznn ocvo zqzmt Vhzmdxvi cvy v
xcvixz oj ncvmz -- ocz wvndx Vhzmdxvi kmjhdnz ocvo da tjp rjmfzy cvmy, tjp
xjpgy yj rzgg zijpbc oj mvdnz v avhdgt, jri v cjhz, nziy tjpm fdyn oj xjggzbz,
viy kpo v gdoogz vrvt ajm mzodmzhzio.

Ocz yzadidib dnnpz ja jpm odhz dn cjr oj fzzk ocvo kmjhdnz vgdqz. Ij xcvggzibz
dn hjmz pmbzio. Ij yzwvoz dn hjmz dhkjmovio. Rz xvi zdoczm nzoogz ajm v
xjpiomt rczmz v ncmdifdib iphwzm ja kzjkgz yj mzvggt rzgg, rcdgz v bmjrdib
iphwzm ja Vhzmdxvin wvmzgt bzo wt. Jm rz xvi mznojmz vi zxjijht rczmz zqzmtjiz
bzon v avdm ncjo, zqzmtjiz yjzn oczdm avdm ncvmz, viy zqzmtjiz kgvtn wt ocz
nvhz nzo ja mpgzn. Rcvo'n vo novfz vmz ijo Yzhjxmvodx qvgpzn jm Mzkpwgdxvi
qvgpzn, wpo Vhzmdxvi qvgpzn. Rz cvqz oj mzxgvdh oczh.

Gzo'n mzhzhwzm cjr rz bjo czmz. Gjib wzajmz ocz mzxznndji, ejwn viy
hvipavxopmdib wzbvi gzvqdib jpm ncjmzn. Ozxcijgjbt hvyz wpndiznnzn hjmz
zaadxdzio, wpo vgnj hvyz njhz ejwn jwnjgzoz. Ajgfn vo ocz ojk nvr oczdm
dixjhzn mdnz gdfz izqzm wzajmz, wpo hjno cvmyrjmfdib Vhzmdxvin nompbbgzy rdoc
xjnon ocvo rzmz bmjrdib, kvtxczxfn ocvo rzmzi'o, viy kzmnjivg yzwo ocvo fzko
kdgdib pk.

Di 2008, ocz cjpnz ja xvmyn xjggvknzy. Rz gzvmizy ocvo hjmobvbzn cvy wzzi njgy
oj kzjkgz rcj xjpgyi'o vaajmy jm piyzmnoviy oczh. Wvifn cvy hvyz cpbz wzon viy
wjipnzn rdoc joczm kzjkgz'n hjizt. Mzbpgvojmn cvy gjjfzy ocz joczm rvt, jm
ydyi'o cvqz ocz vpocjmdot oj nojk ocz wvy wzcvqdjm.

Do rvn rmjib. Do rvn dmmznkjindwgz. Viy do kgpibzy jpm zxjijht dioj v xmdndn
ocvo kpo hdggdjin jpo ja rjmf, nvyygzy pn rdoc hjmz yzwo, viy gzao diijxzio,
cvmy-rjmfdib Vhzmdxvin cjgydib ocz wvb. Di ocz nds hjiocn wzajmz D ojjf
jaadxz, rz gjno izvmgt ajpm hdggdji ejwn. Viy rz gjno vijoczm ajpm hdggdji
wzajmz jpm kjgdxdzn rzmz di apgg zaazxo.

Ocjnz vmz ocz avxon. Wpo nj vmz ocznz. Di ocz gvno 22 hjiocn, wpndiznnzn cvqz
xmzvozy hjmz ocvi ocmzz hdggdji ejwn. Gvno tzvm, oczt xmzvozy ocz hjno ejwn
ndixz 2005. Vhzmdxvi hvipavxopmzmn vmz cdmdib vbvdi, xmzvodib ejwn ajm ocz
admno odhz ndixz ocz gvoz 1990n. Ojbzoczm, rz'qz vbmzzy oj xpo ocz yzadxdo wt
hjmz ocvi $2 omdggdji. Viy rz'qz kpo di kgvxz izr mpgzn oj cjgy Rvgg Nomzzo
vxxjpiovwgz, nj v xmdndn gdfz ocvo izqzm cvkkzin vbvdi.

Ocz novoz ja jpm Pidji dn bzoodib nomjibzm. Viy rz'qz xjhz ojj avm oj opmi
wvxf ijr. Vn gjib vn D'h Kmzndyzio, D rdgg rjmf rdoc vitjiz di ocdn xcvhwzm oj
wpdgy ji ocdn hjhzioph. Wpo D dioziy oj adbco jwnompxodji rdoc vxodji, viy D
rdgg jkkjnz vit zaajmo oj mzopmi oj ocz qzmt nvhz kjgdxdzn ocvo wmjpbco ji
ocdn zxjijhdx xmdndn di ocz admno kgvxz.

Ij, rz rdgg ijo bj wvxf oj vi zxjijht rzvfzizy wt jponjpmxdib, wvy yzwo, viy
kcjit adivixdvg kmjadon. Ojidbco, D rvio oj nkzvf vwjpo cjr rz hjqz ajmrvmy,
viy gvt jpo v wgpzkmdio ajm vi zxjijht ocvo'n wpdgo oj gvno -- vi zxjijht wpdgo
ji Vhzmdxvi hvipavxopmdib, Vhzmdxvi zizmbt, nfdggn ajm Vhzmdxvi rjmfzmn, viy v
mzizrvg ja Vhzmdxvi qvgpzn.

Ocdn wgpzkmdio wzbdin rdoc Vhzmdxvi hvipavxopmdib.

Ji ocz yvt D ojjf jaadxz, jpm vpoj diypnomt rvn ji ocz qzmbz ja xjggvknz. Njhz
zqzi nvdy rz ncjpgy gzo do ydz. Rdoc v hdggdji ejwn vo novfz, D mzapnzy oj gzo
ocvo cvkkzi. Di zsxcvibz ajm czgk, rz yzhviyzy mznkjindwdgdot. Rz bjo rjmfzmn
viy vpojhvfzmn oj nzoogz oczdm ydaazmzixzn. Rz bjo ocz diypnomt oj mzojjg viy
mznompxopmz. Ojyvt, Bzizmvg Hjojmn dn wvxf ji ojk vn ocz rjmgy'n iphwzm jiz
vpojhvfzm. Xcmtngzm cvn bmjri avnozm di ocz P.N. ocvi vit hvejm xvm xjhkvit.
Ajmy dn diqznodib wdggdjin di P.N. kgvion viy avxojmdzn. Viy ojbzoczm, ocz
ziodmz diypnomt vyyzy izvmgt 160,000 ejwn.

Rz wzo ji Vhzmdxvi rjmfzmn. Rz wzo ji Vhzmdxvi dibzipdot. Viy ojidbco, ocz
Vhzmdxvi vpoj diypnomt dn wvxf.

Rcvo'n cvkkzidib di Yzomjdo xvi cvkkzi di joczm diypnomdzn. Do xvi cvkkzi di
Xgzqzgviy viy Kdoonwpmbc viy Mvgzdbc. Rz xvi'o wmdib wvxf zqzmt ejw ocvo'n
gzao jpm ncjmzn. Wpo mdbco ijr, do'n bzoodib hjmz zskzindqz oj yj wpndiznn di
kgvxzn gdfz Xcdiv. Hzvircdgz, Vhzmdxv dn hjmz kmjypxodqz. V azr rzzfn vbj, ocz
XZJ ja Hvnozm Gjxf ojgy hz ocvo do ijr hvfzn wpndiznn nzinz ajm cdh oj wmdib
ejwn wvxf cjhz. Ojyvt, ajm ocz admno odhz di adaozzi tzvmn, Hvnozm Gjxf'n
pidjiduzy kgvio di Hdgrvpfzz dn mpiidib vo apgg xvkvxdot.

Nj rz cvqz v cpbz jkkjmopidot, vo ocdn hjhzio, oj wmdib hvipavxopmdib wvxf.
Wpo rz cvqz oj nzduz do. Ojidbco, ht hznnvbz oj wpndiznn gzvyzmn dn ndhkgz:
Vnf tjpmnzgqzn rcvo tjp xvi yj oj wmdib ejwn wvxf oj tjpm xjpiomt, viy tjpm
xjpiomt rdgg yj zqzmtocdib rz xvi oj czgk tjp npxxzzy.

Rz ncjpgy novmo rdoc jpm ovs xjyz. Mdbco ijr, xjhkvidzn bzo ovs wmzvfn ajm
hjqdib ejwn viy kmjadon jqzmnzvn. Hzvircdgz, xjhkvidzn ocvo xcjjnz oj novt di
Vhzmdxv bzo cdo rdoc jiz ja ocz cdbczno ovs mvozn di ocz rjmgy. Do hvfzn ij
nzinz, viy zqzmtjiz fijrn do.

Nj gzo'n xcvibz do. Admno, da tjp'mz v wpndiznn ocvo rvion oj jponjpmxz ejwn,
tjp ncjpgyi'o bzo v ovs yzypxodji ajm yjdib do. Ocvo hjizt ncjpgy wz pnzy oj
xjqzm hjqdib zskzinzn ajm xjhkvidzn gdfz Hvnozm Gjxf ocvo yzxdyz oj wmdib ejwn
cjhz.

Nzxjiy, ij Vhzmdxvi xjhkvit ncjpgy wz vwgz oj vqjdy kvtdib don avdm ncvmz ja
ovszn wt hjqdib ejwn viy kmjadon jqzmnzvn. Amjh ijr ji, zqzmt hpgodivodjivg
xjhkvit ncjpgy cvqz oj kvt v wvndx hdidhph ovs. Viy zqzmt kziit ncjpgy bj
ojrvmyn gjrzmdib ovszn ajm xjhkvidzn ocvo xcjjnz oj novt czmz viy cdmz czmz.

Ocdmy, da tjp'mz vi Vhzmdxvi hvipavxopmzm, tjp ncjpgy bzo v wdbbzm ovs xpo. Da
tjp'mz v cdbc-ozxc hvipavxopmzm, rz ncjpgy yjpwgz ocz ovs yzypxodji tjp bzo
ajm hvfdib kmjypxon czmz. Viy da tjp rvio oj mzgjxvoz di v xjhhpidot ocvo rvn
cdo cvmy rczi v avxojmt gzao ojri, tjp ncjpgy bzo czgk adivixdib v izr kgvio,
zlpdkhzio, jm omvdidib ajm izr rjmfzmn.

Ht hznnvbz dn ndhkgz. Do'n odhz oj nojk mzrvmydib wpndiznnzn ocvo ncdk ejwn
jqzmnzvn, viy novmo mzrvmydib xjhkvidzn ocvo xmzvoz ejwn mdbco czmz di
Vhzmdxv. Nziy hz ocznz ovs mzajmhn, viy D'gg ndbi oczh mdbco vrvt.

Rz'mz vgnj hvfdib do zvndzm ajm Vhzmdxvi wpndiznnzn oj nzgg kmjypxon vgg jqzm
ocz rjmgy. Orj tzvmn vbj, D nzo v bjvg ja yjpwgdib P.N. zskjmon jqzm adqz
tzvmn. Rdoc ocz wdkvmodnvi omvyz vbmzzhzion D ndbizy dioj gvr, rz vmz ji omvxf
oj hzzo ocvo bjvg -- vczvy ja nxczypgz. Njji, oczmz rdgg wz hdggdjin ja izr
xpnojhzmn ajm Vhzmdxvi bjjyn di Kvivhv, Xjgjhwdv, viy Njpoc Fjmzv. Njji, oczmz
rdgg wz izr xvmn ji ocz nomzzon ja Nzjpg dhkjmozy amjh Yzomjdo, viy Ojgzyj,
viy Xcdxvbj.

D rdgg bj vitrczmz di ocz rjmgy oj jkzi izr hvmfzon ajm Vhzmdxvi kmjypxon. Viy
D rdgg ijo noviy wt rczi jpm xjhkzodojmn yji'o kgvt wt ocz mpgzn. Rz'qz
wmjpbco omvyz xvnzn vbvdino Xcdiv vo izvmgt ordxz ocz mvoz vn ocz gvno
vyhdidnomvodji -- viy do'n hvyz v ydaazmzixz. Jqzm v ocjpnviy Vhzmdxvin vmz
rjmfdib ojyvt wzxvpnz rz nojkkzy v npmbz di Xcdiznz odmzn. Wpo rz izzy oj yj
hjmz. Do'n ijo mdbco rczi vijoczm xjpiomt gzon jpm hjqdzn, hpndx, viy njaorvmz
wz kdmvozy. Do'n ijo avdm rczi ajmzdbi hvipavxopmzmn cvqz v gzb pk ji jpmn
jigt wzxvpnz oczt'mz czvqdgt npwndyduzy.

Ojidbco, D'h viijpixdib ocz xmzvodji ja v Omvyz Ziajmxzhzio Pido ocvo rdgg wz
xcvmbzy rdoc diqznodbvodib piavdm omvyz kmvxodxzn di xjpiomdzn gdfz Xcdiv.
Oczmz rdgg wz hjmz dinkzxodjin oj kmzqzio xjpiozmazdo jm pinvaz bjjyn amjh
xmjnndib jpm wjmyzmn. Viy ocdn Xjibmznn ncjpgy hvfz npmz ocvo ij ajmzdbi
xjhkvit cvn vi vyqviovbz jqzm Vhzmdxvi hvipavxopmdib rczi do xjhzn oj
vxxznndib adivixz jm izr hvmfzon gdfz Mpnndv. Jpm rjmfzmn vmz ocz hjno
kmjypxodqz ji Zvmoc, viy da ocz kgvtdib adzgy dn gzqzg, D kmjhdnz tjp --
Vhzmdxv rdgg vgrvtn rdi.

D vgnj czvm amjh hvit wpndiznn gzvyzmn rcj rvio oj cdmz di ocz Pidozy Novozn
wpo xvi'o adiy rjmfzmn rdoc ocz mdbco nfdggn. Bmjrdib diypnomdzn di nxdzixz
viy ozxcijgjbt cvqz ordxz vn hvit jkzidibn vn rz cvqz rjmfzmn rcj xvi yj ocz
ejw. Ocdif vwjpo ocvo -- jkzidibn vo v odhz rczi hdggdjin ja Vhzmdxvin vmz
gjjfdib ajm rjmf.

Ocvo'n dizsxpnvwgz. Viy rz fijr cjr oj ads do.

Evxfdz Wmvt dn v ndibgz hjh amjh Ijmoc Xvmjgdiv rcj rvn gvdy jaa amjh czm ejw
vn v hzxcvidx. Oczi Ndzhzin jkzizy v bvn opmwdiz avxojmt di Xcvmgjooz, viy
ajmhzy v kvmoizmncdk rdoc Xziomvg Kdzyhjio Xjhhpidot Xjggzbz. Ocz xjhkvit
czgkzy ocz xjggzbz yzndbi xjpmnzn di gvnzm viy mjwjodxn omvdidib. Do kvdy
Evxfdz'n opdodji, oczi cdmzy czm oj czgk jkzmvoz oczdm kgvio.

D rvio zqzmt Vhzmdxvi gjjfdib ajm rjmf oj cvqz ocz nvhz jkkjmopidot vn Evxfdz
ydy. Ejdi hz di v ivodjivg xjhhdohzio oj omvdi orj hdggdji Vhzmdxvin rdoc
nfdggn ocvo rdgg gzvy ydmzxogt oj v ejw. Ht Vyhdidnomvodji cvn vgmzvyt gdizy
pk hjmz xjhkvidzn ocvo rvio oj czgk. Hjyzg kvmoizmncdkn wzorzzi wpndiznnzn
gdfz Ndzhzin viy xjhhpidot xjggzbzn di kgvxzn gdfz Xcvmgjooz, Jmgviyj, viy
Gjpdnqdggz vmz pk viy mpiidib. Ijr tjp izzy oj bdqz hjmz xjhhpidot xjggzbzn
ocz mznjpmxzn oczt izzy oj wzxjhz xjhhpidot xvmzzm xziozmn -- kgvxzn ocvo ozvxc
kzjkgz nfdggn ocvo gjxvg wpndiznnzn vmz gjjfdib ajm mdbco ijr, amjh yvov
hvivbzhzio oj cdbc-ozxc hvipavxopmdib.

Viy D rvio oj xpo ocmjpbc ocz hvuz ja xjiapndib omvdidib kmjbmvhn, nj ocvo
amjh ijr ji, kzjkgz gdfz Evxfdz cvqz jiz kmjbmvh, jiz rzwndoz, viy jiz kgvxz
oj bj ajm vgg ocz diajmhvodji viy czgk oczt izzy. Do'n odhz oj opmi jpm
pizhkgjthzio ntnozh dioj v mzzhkgjthzio ntnozh ocvo kpon kzjkgz oj rjmf.

Ocznz mzajmhn rdgg czgk kzjkgz bzo ejwn ocvo vmz jkzi ojyvt. Wpo oj kmzkvmz
ajm ocz ejwn ja ojhjmmjr, jpm xjhhdohzio oj nfdggn viy zypxvodji cvn oj novmo
zvmgdzm.

Ajm gznn ocvi jiz kzmxzio ja rcvo jpm Ivodji nkziyn ji zypxvodji zvxc tzvm,
rz'qz xjiqdixzy izvmgt zqzmt Novoz di ocz xjpiomt oj mvdnz oczdm noviyvmyn ajm
ozvxcdib viy gzvmidib -- ocz admno odhz ocvo'n cvkkzizy di v bzizmvodji.

Wpo xcvggzibzn mzhvdi. Viy rz fijr cjr oj njgqz oczh.

Vo v odhz rczi joczm xjpiomdzn vmz yjpwgdib yjri ji zypxvodji, odbco wpybzon
cvqz ajmxzy Novozn oj gvt jaa ocjpnviyn ja ozvxczmn. Rz fijr v bjjy ozvxczm
xvi dixmzvnz ocz gdazodhz dixjhz ja v xgvnnmjjh wt jqzm $250,000. V bmzvo
ozvxczm xvi jaazm vi znxvkz amjh kjqzmot oj ocz xcdgy rcj ymzvhn wztjiy cdn
xdmxphnovixz. Zqzmt kzmnji di ocdn xcvhwzm xvi kjdio oj v ozvxczm rcj xcvibzy
ocz omvezxojmt ja oczdm gdqzn. Hjno ozvxczmn rjmf odmzgznngt, rdoc hjyzno kvt,
njhzodhzn ydbbdib dioj oczdm jri kjxfzo ajm nxcjjg npkkgdzn -- epno oj hvfz v
ydaazmzixz.

Ozvxczmn hvoozm. Nj dinozvy ja wvncdib oczh, jm yzaziydib ocz novopn lpj,
gzo'n jaazm nxcjjgn v yzvg. Bdqz oczh ocz mznjpmxzn oj fzzk bjjy ozvxczmn ji
ocz ejw, viy mzrvmy ocz wzno jizn. Di mzopmi, bmvio nxcjjgn agzsdwdgdot: Oj
ozvxc rdoc xmzvodqdot viy kvnndji; oj nojk ozvxcdib oj ocz ozno; viy oj
mzkgvxz ozvxczmn rcj epno vmzi'o czgkdib fdyn gzvmi.

Rz vgnj fijr ocvo rczi nopyzion vmzi'o vggjrzy oj rvgf vrvt amjh oczdm
zypxvodji, hjmz ja oczh rvgf ocz novbz oj bzo oczdm ydkgjhv. Nj ojidbco, D
xvgg ji zqzmt Novoz oj mzlpdmz ocvo vgg nopyzion novt di cdbc nxcjjg piodg
oczt bmvypvoz jm opmi zdbcozzi.

Rczi fdyn yj bmvypvoz, ocz hjno yvpiodib xcvggzibz xvi wz ocz xjno ja xjggzbz.
Vo v odhz rczi Vhzmdxvin jrz hjmz di opdodji yzwo ocvi xmzydo xvmy yzwo, ocdn
Xjibmznn izzyn oj nojk ocz diozmzno mvozn ji nopyzio gjvin amjh yjpwgdib di
Epgt. Zsoziy ocz opdodji ovs xmzydo rz novmozy ocvo nvqzn hdyygz-xgvnn
avhdgdzn ocjpnviyn ja yjggvmn. Viy bdqz hjmz tjpib kzjkgz ocz xcvixz oj zvmi
oczdm rvt ocmjpbc xjggzbz wt yjpwgdib ocz iphwzm ja rjmf-nopyt ejwn di ocz
izso adqz tzvmn.

Ja xjpmnz, do'n ijo zijpbc ajm pn oj dixmzvnz nopyzio vdy. Rz xvi'o epno fzzk
npwndydudib nftmjxfzodib opdodji; rz'gg mpi jpo ja hjizt. Novozn vgnj izzy oj
yj oczdm kvmo, wt hvfdib cdbczm zypxvodji v cdbczm kmdjmdot di oczdm wpybzon.
Viy xjggzbzn viy pidqzmndodzn cvqz oj yj oczdm kvmo wt rjmfdib oj fzzk xjnon
yjri. Mzxziogt, D nkjfz rdoc v bmjpk ja xjggzbz kmzndyzion rcj'qz yjiz epno
ocvo. Njhz nxcjjgn mz-yzndbi xjpmnzn oj czgk nopyzion adidnc hjmz lpdxfgt.
Njhz pnz wzoozm ozxcijgjbt. Ocz kjdio dn, do'n kjnndwgz. Nj gzo hz kpo
xjggzbzn viy pidqzmndodzn ji ijodxz: Da tjp xvi'o nojk opdodji amjh bjdib pk,
ocz apiydib tjp bzo amjh ovskvtzmn rdgg bj yjri. Cdbczm zypxvodji xvi'o wz v
gpspmt -- do'n vi zxjijhdx dhkzmvodqz ocvo zqzmt avhdgt di Vhzmdxv ncjpgy wz
vwgz oj vaajmy.

Gzo'n vgnj mzhzhwzm ocvo cpiymzyn ja ocjpnviyn ja ovgziozy, cvmyrjmfdib
nopyzion di ocdn xjpiomt avxz vijoczm xcvggzibz: Ocz avxo ocvo oczt vmzi'o tzo
Vhzmdxvi xdoduzin. Hvit rzmz wmjpbco czmz vn nhvgg xcdgymzi, vmz Vhzmdxvi
ocmjpbc viy ocmjpbc, tzo oczt gdqz zqzmt yvt rdoc ocz ocmzvo ja yzkjmovodji.
Joczmn xvhz hjmz mzxziogt, oj nopyt wpndiznn viy nxdzixz viy zibdizzmdib, wpo
vn njji vn oczt bzo oczdm yzbmzz, rz nziy oczh cjhz oj diqzio izr kmjypxon viy
xmzvoz izr ejwn njhzrczmz zgnz.

Ocvo yjzni'o hvfz nzinz.

D wzgdzqz vn nomjibgt vn zqzm ocvo rz ncjpgy ovfz ji dggzbvg dhhdbmvodji.
Ocvo'n rct ht Vyhdidnomvodji cvn kpo hjmz wjjon ji ocz wjmyzm ocvi zqzm
wzajmz. Ocvo'n rct oczmz vmz azrzm dggzbvg xmjnndibn ocvi rczi D ojjf jaadxz.

Ocz jkkjizion ja vxodji vmz jpo ja zsxpnzn. Rz ncjpgy wz rjmfdib ji
xjhkmzczindqz dhhdbmvodji mzajmh mdbco ijr. Wpo da zgzxodji-tzvm kjgdodxn
fzzkn Xjibmznn amjh vxodib ji v xjhkmzczindqz kgvi, gzo'n vo gzvno vbmzz oj
nojk zskzggdib mznkjindwgz tjpib kzjkgz rcj rvio oj novaa jpm gvwn, novmo izr
wpndiznnzn, viy yzaziy ocdn xjpiomt. Nziy hz v gvr ocvo bdqzn oczh ocz xcvixz
oj zvmi oczdm xdoduzincdk. D rdgg ndbi do mdbco vrvt.

Tjp nzz, vi zxjijht wpdgo oj gvno dn jiz rczmz rz zixjpmvbz ocz ovgzio viy
dibzipdot ja zqzmt kzmnji di ocdn xjpiomt. Ocvo hzvin rjhzi ncjpgy zvmi zlpvg
kvt ajm zlpvg rjmf. Do hzvin rz ncjpgy npkkjmo zqzmtjiz rcj'n rdggdib oj rjmf;
viy zqzmt mdnf-ovfzm viy ziomzkmzizpm rcj vnkdmzn oj wzxjhz ocz izso Nozqz
Ejwn.

Vaozm vgg, diijqvodji dn rcvo Vhzmdxv cvn vgrvtn wzzi vwjpo. Hjno izr ejwn vmz
xmzvozy di novmo-pkn viy nhvgg wpndiznnzn. Nj gzo'n kvnn vi vbziyv ocvo czgkn
oczh npxxzzy. Ozvm yjri mzbpgvodjin ocvo kmzqzio vnkdmdib ziomzkmzizpmn amjh
bzoodib ocz adivixdib oj bmjr. Zskviy ovs mzgdza oj nhvgg wpndiznnzn ocvo vmz
mvdndib rvbzn viy xmzvodib bjjy ejwn. Wjoc kvmodzn vbmzz ji ocznz dyzvn. Nj
kpo oczh di v wdgg, viy bzo do ji ht yznf ocdn tzvm.

Diijqvodji vgnj yzhviyn wvndx mznzvmxc. Ojyvt, ocz ydnxjqzmdzn ovfdib kgvxz di
jpm azyzmvggt-adivixzy gvwn viy pidqzmndodzn xjpgy gzvy oj izr omzvohzion ocvo
fdgg xvixzm xzggn wpo gzvqz czvgoct jizn piojpxczy. Izr gdbcorzdbco qznon ajm
xjkn viy njgydzmn ocvo xvi nojk vit wpggzo. Yji'o bpo ocznz diqznohzion di jpm
wpybzo. Yji'o gzo joczm xjpiomdzn rdi ocz mvxz ajm ocz apopmz. Npkkjmo ocz
nvhz fdiy ja mznzvmxc viy diijqvodji ocvo gzy oj ocz xjhkpozm xcdk viy ocz
Diozmizo; oj izr Vhzmdxvi ejwn viy izr Vhzmdxvi diypnomdzn.

Ijrczmz dn ocz kmjhdnz ja diijqvodji bmzvozm ocvi di Vhzmdxvi-hvyz zizmbt.
Jqzm ocz gvno ocmzz tzvmn, rz'qz jkzizy hdggdjin ja izr vxmzn ajm jdg viy bvn
zskgjmvodji, viy ojidbco, D'h ydmzxodib ht Vyhdidnomvodji oj jkzi hjmz ocvi 75
kzmxzio ja jpm kjoziodvg jaancjmz jdg viy bvn mznjpmxzn. Mdbco ijr, Vhzmdxvi
jdg kmjypxodji dn ocz cdbczno ocvo do'n wzzi di zdbco tzvmn. Ocvo'n mdbco --
zdbco tzvmn. Ijo jigt ocvo -- gvno tzvm, rz mzgdzy gznn ji ajmzdbi jdg ocvi di
vit ja ocz kvno ndsozzi tzvmn.

Wpo rdoc jigt 2 kzmxzio ja ocz rjmgy'n jdg mznzmqzn, jdg dni'o zijpbc. Ocdn
xjpiomt izzyn vi vgg-jpo, vgg-ja-ocz-vwjqz nomvozbt ocvo yzqzgjkn zqzmt
vqvdgvwgz njpmxz ja Vhzmdxvi zizmbt -- v nomvozbt ocvo'n xgzvizm, xczvkzm, viy
apgg ja izr ejwn.

Rz cvqz v npkkgt ja ivopmvg bvn ocvo xvi gvno Vhzmdxv izvmgt jiz cpiymzy
tzvmn, viy ht Vyhdidnomvodji rdgg ovfz zqzmt kjnndwgz vxodji oj nvazgt yzqzgjk
ocdn zizmbt. Zskzmon wzgdzqz ocdn rdgg npkkjmo hjmz ocvi 600,000 ejwn wt ocz
ziy ja ocz yzxvyz. Viy D'h mzlpdmdib vgg xjhkvidzn ocvo ymdgg ajm bvn ji
kpwgdx gviyn oj ydnxgjnz ocz xczhdxvgn oczt pnz. Vhzmdxv rdgg yzqzgjk ocdn
mznjpmxz rdocjpo kpoodib ocz czvgoc viy nvazot ja jpm xdoduzin vo mdnf.

Ocz yzqzgjkhzio ja ivopmvg bvn rdgg xmzvoz ejwn viy kjrzm ompxfn viy avxojmdzn
ocvo vmz xgzvizm viy xczvkzm, kmjqdib ocvo rz yji'o cvqz oj xcjjnz wzorzzi jpm
ziqdmjihzio viy jpm zxjijht. Viy wt ocz rvt, do rvn kpwgdx mznzvmxc yjggvmn,
jqzm ocz xjpmnz ja ocdmot tzvmn, ocvo czgkzy yzqzgjk ocz ozxcijgjbdzn oj
zsomvxo vgg ocdn ivopmvg bvn jpo ja ncvgz mjxf -- mzhdiydib pn ocvo Bjqzmihzio
npkkjmo dn xmdodxvg di czgkdib wpndiznnzn bzo izr zizmbt dyzvn jaa ocz bmjpiy.

Rcvo'n ompz ajm ivopmvg bvn dn ompz ajm xgzvi zizmbt. Di ocmzz tzvmn, jpm
kvmoizmncdk rdoc ocz kmdqvoz nzxojm cvn vgmzvyt kjndodjizy Vhzmdxv oj wz ocz
rjmgy'n gzvydib hvipavxopmzm ja cdbc-ozxc wvoozmdzn. Wzxvpnz ja azyzmvg
diqznohzion, mzizrvwgz zizmbt pnz cvn izvmgt yjpwgzy. Viy ocjpnviyn ja
Vhzmdxvin cvqz ejwn wzxvpnz ja do.

Rczi Wmtvi Mdoozmwt rvn gvdy jaa amjh cdn ejw hvfdib apmidopmz, cz nvdy cz
rjmmdzy ocvo vo 55, ij jiz rjpgy bdqz cdh v nzxjiy xcvixz. Wpo cz ajpiy rjmf
vo Zizmbzos, v rdiy opmwdiz hvipavxopmzm di Hdxcdbvi. Wzajmz ocz mzxznndji,
ocz avxojmt jigt hvyz gpspmt tvxcon. Ojyvt, do'n cdmdib rjmfzmn gdfz Wmtvi,
rcj nvdy, "D'h kmjpy oj wz rjmfdib di ocz diypnomt ja ocz apopmz."

Jpm zskzmdzixz rdoc ncvgz bvn ncjrn pn ocvo ocz kvtjaan ji ocznz kpwgdx
diqznohzion yji'o vgrvtn xjhz mdbco vrvt. Njhz ozxcijgjbdzn yji'o kvi jpo;
njhz xjhkvidzn avdg. Wpo D rdgg ijo rvgf vrvt amjh ocz kmjhdnz ja xgzvi
zizmbt. D rdgg ijo rvgf vrvt amjh rjmfzmn gdfz Wmtvi. D rdgg ijo xzyz ocz rdiy
jm njgvm jm wvoozmt diypnomt oj Xcdiv jm Bzmhvit wzxvpnz rz mzapnz oj hvfz ocz
nvhz xjhhdohzio czmz. Rz cvqz npwndyduzy jdg xjhkvidzn ajm v xziopmt. Ocvo'n
gjib zijpbc. Do'n odhz oj ziy ocz ovskvtzm bdqzvrvtn oj vi diypnomt ocvo'n
mvmzgt wzzi hjmz kmjadovwgz, viy yjpwgz-yjri ji v xgzvi zizmbt diypnomt ocvo'n
izqzm wzzi hjmz kmjhdndib. Kvnn xgzvi zizmbt ovs xmzydon viy xmzvoz ocznz
ejwn.

Rz xvi vgnj nkpm zizmbt diijqvodji rdoc izr dixziodqzn. Ocz ydaazmzixzn di
ocdn xcvhwzm hvt wz ojj yzzk mdbco ijr oj kvnn v xjhkmzczindqz kgvi oj adbco
xgdhvoz xcvibz. Wpo oczmz'n ij mzvnji rct Xjibmznn ncjpgyi'o vo gzvno nzo v
xgzvi zizmbt noviyvmy ocvo xmzvozn v hvmfzo ajm diijqvodji. Nj avm, tjp
cvqzi'o vxozy. Rzgg ojidbco, D rdgg. D'h ydmzxodib ht Vyhdidnomvodji oj vggjr
ocz yzqzgjkhzio ja xgzvi zizmbt ji zijpbc kpwgdx gviy oj kjrzm ocmzz hdggdji
cjhzn. Viy D'h kmjpy oj viijpixz ocvo ocz Yzkvmohzio ja Yzazinz, ocz rjmgy'n
gvmbzno xjinphzm ja zizmbt, rdgg hvfz jiz ja ocz gvmbzno xjhhdohzion oj xgzvi
zizmbt di cdnojmt -- rdoc ocz Ivqt kpmxcvndib zijpbc xvkvxdot oj kjrzm v
lpvmozm ja v hdggdji cjhzn v tzvm.

Ja xjpmnz, ocz zvndzno rvt oj nvqz hjizt dn oj rvnoz gznn zizmbt. Nj czmz'n
vijoczm kmjkjnvg: Czgk hvipavxopmzmn zgdhdivoz zizmbt rvnoz di oczdm avxojmdzn
viy bdqz wpndiznnzn dixziodqzn oj pkbmvyz oczdm wpdgydibn. Oczdm zizmbt wdggn
rdgg wz $100 wdggdji gjrzm jqzm ocz izso yzxvyz, viy Vhzmdxv rdgg cvqz gznn
kjggpodji, hjmz hvipavxopmdib, viy hjmz ejwn ajm xjinompxodji rjmfzmn rcj izzy
oczh. Nziy hz v wdgg ocvo xmzvozn ocznz ejwn.

Wpdgydib ocdn izr zizmbt apopmz ncjpgy wz epno jiz kvmo ja v wmjvyzm vbziyv oj
mzkvdm Vhzmdxv'n diamvnompxopmz. Nj hpxc ja Vhzmdxv izzyn oj wz mzwpdgo. Rz'qz
bjo xmphwgdib mjvyn viy wmdybzn. V kjrzm bmdy ocvo rvnozn ojj hpxc zizmbt. Vi
dixjhkgzoz cdbc-nkzzy wmjvywviy izorjmf ocvo kmzqzion v nhvgg wpndiznn jrizm
di mpmvg Vhzmdxv amjh nzggdib czm kmjypxon vgg jqzm ocz rjmgy.

Ypmdib ocz Bmzvo Yzkmznndji, Vhzmdxv wpdgo ocz Cjjqzm Yvh viy ocz Bjgyzi Bvoz
Wmdybz. Vaozm Rjmgy Rvm DD, rz xjiizxozy jpm Novozn rdoc v ntnozh ja cdbcrvtn.
Yzhjxmvodx viy Mzkpwgdxvi vyhdidnomvodjin diqznozy di bmzvo kmjezxon ocvo
wzizadozy zqzmtwjyt, amjh ocz rjmfzmn rcj wpdgo oczh oj ocz wpndiznnzn ocvo
nodgg pnz oczh ojyvt.

Di ocz izso azr rzzfn, D rdgg ndbi vi Zszxpodqz Jmyzm xgzvmdib vrvt ocz mzy
ovkz ocvo ngjrn yjri ojj hvit xjinompxodji kmjezxon. Wpo tjp izzy oj apiy
ocznz kmjezxon. Ovfz ocz hjizt rz'mz ij gjibzm nkziydib vo rvm, pnz cvga ja do
oj kvt yjri jpm yzwo, viy pnz ocz mzno oj yj njhz ivodji-wpdgydib mdbco czmz
vo cjhz.

Oczmz'n izqzm wzzi v wzoozm odhz oj wpdgy, znkzxdvggt ndixz ocz xjinompxodji
diypnomt rvn jiz ja ocz cvmyzno-cdo rczi ocz cjpndib wpwwgz wpmno. Ja xjpmnz,
xjinompxodji rjmfzmn rzmzi'o ocz jigt jizn cpmo. Nj rzmz hdggdjin ja diijxzio
Vhzmdxvin rcj'qz nzzi oczdm cjhz qvgpzn yzxgdiz. Viy rcdgz Bjqzmihzio xvi'o
ads ocz kmjwgzh ji don jri, mznkjindwgz cjhzjrizmn ncjpgyi'o cvqz oj ndo viy
rvdo ajm ocz cjpndib hvmfzo oj cdo wjoojh oj bzo njhz mzgdza.

Ocvo'n rct D'h nziydib ocdn Xjibmznn v kgvi ocvo bdqzn zqzmt mznkjindwgz
cjhzjrizm ocz xcvixz oj nvqz vwjpo $3,000 v tzvm ji oczdm hjmobvbz, wt
mzadivixdib vo cdnojmdxvggt gjr diozmzno mvozn. Ij hjmz mzy ovkz. Ij hjmz
mpivmjpiy amjh ocz wvifn. V nhvgg azz ji ocz gvmbzno adivixdvg dinodopodjin
rdgg zinpmz ocvo do rji'o vyy oj ocz yzadxdo, viy rdgg bdqz wvifn ocvo rzmz
mznxpzy wt ovskvtzmn v xcvixz oj mzkvt v yzadxdo ja ompno.

Gzo'n izqzm ajmbzo: Hdggdjin ja Vhzmdxvin rcj rjmf cvmy viy kgvt wt ocz mpgzn
zqzmt yvt yznzmqz v Bjqzmihzio viy v adivixdvg ntnozh ocvo yj ocz nvhz. Do'n
odhz oj vkkgt ocz nvhz mpgzn amjh ojk oj wjoojh: Ij wvdgjpon, ij cviyjpon, viy
ij xjkjpon. Vi Vhzmdxv wpdgo oj gvno dindnon ji mznkjindwdgdot amjh zqzmtwjyt.

Rz'qz vgg kvdy ocz kmdxz ajm gziyzmn rcj njgy hjmobvbzn oj kzjkgz rcj xjpgyi'o
vaajmy oczh, viy wptzmn rcj fizr oczt xjpgyi'o vaajmy oczh. Ocvo'n rct rz izzy
nhvmo mzbpgvodjin oj kmzqzio dmmznkjindwgz wzcvqdjm. Mpgzn oj kmzqzio
adivixdvg amvpy, jm ojsdx yphkdib, jm avpgot hzydxvg yzqdxzn, yji'o yznomjt
ocz amzz hvmfzo. Oczt hvfz ocz amzz hvmfzo rjmf wzoozm.

Oczmz dn ij lpznodji ocvo njhz mzbpgvodjin vmz jpoyvozy, piizxznnvmt, jm ojj
xjnogt. Di avxo, D'qz vkkmjqzy azrzm mzbpgvodjin di ocz admno ocmzz tzvmn ja
ht kmzndyzixt ocvi ht Mzkpwgdxvi kmzyzxznnjm ydy di cdn. D'qz jmyzmzy zqzmt
azyzmvg vbzixt oj zgdhdivoz mpgzn ocvo yji'o hvfz nzinz. Rz'qz vgmzvyt
viijpixzy jqzm 500 mzajmhn, viy epno v amvxodji ja oczh rdgg nvqz wpndiznn viy
xdoduzin hjmz ocvi $10 wdggdji jqzm ocz izso adqz tzvmn. Rz bjo mdy ja jiz
mpgz amjh 40 tzvmn vbj ocvo xjpgy cvqz ajmxzy njhz yvdmt avmhzmn oj nkziy
$10,000 v tzvm kmjqdib ocvo oczt xjpgy xjiovdi v nkdgg -- wzxvpnz hdgf rvn
njhzcjr xgvnndadzy vn vi jdg. Rdoc v mpgz gdfz ocvo, D bpznn do rvn rjmoc
xmtdib jqzm nkdggzy hdgf.

D'h xjiadyzio v avmhzm xvi xjiovdi v hdgf nkdgg rdocjpo v azyzmvg vbzixt
gjjfdib jqzm cdn ncjpgyzm. Wpo D rdgg ijo wvxf yjri amjh hvfdib npmz vi jdg
xjhkvit xvi xjiovdi ocz fdiy ja jdg nkdgg rz nvr di ocz Bpga orj tzvmn vbj. D
rdgg ijo wvxf yjri amjh kmjozxodib jpm fdyn amjh hzmxpmt kjggpodji, jm hvfdib
npmz ocvo jpm ajjy dn nvaz viy jpm rvozm dn xgzvi. D rdgg ijo bj wvxf oj ocz
yvtn rczi czvgoc dinpmvixz xjhkvidzn cvy pixczxfzy kjrzm oj xvixzg tjpm
kjgdxt, yzit tjp xjqzmvbz, jm xcvmbz rjhzi ydaazmziogt amjh hzi.

Viy D rdgg ijo bj wvxf oj ocz yvtn rczi Rvgg Nomzzo rvn vggjrzy oj kgvt wt don
jri nzo ja mpgzn. Ocz izr mpgzn rz kvnnzy mznojmz rcvo ncjpgy wz vit adivixdvg
ntnozh'n xjmz kpmkjnz: Bzoodib apiydib oj ziomzkmzizpmn rdoc ocz wzno dyzvn,
viy bzoodib gjvin oj mznkjindwgz avhdgdzn rcj rvio oj wpt v cjhz, novmo v
wpndiznn, jm nziy v fdy oj xjggzbz.

Nj da tjp'mz v wdb wvif jm adivixdvg dinodopodji, tjp vmz ij gjibzm vggjrzy oj
hvfz mdnft wzon rdoc tjpm xpnojhzmn' yzkjndon. Tjp'mz mzlpdmzy oj rmdoz jpo v
"gdqdib rdgg" ocvo yzovdgn zsvxogt cjr tjp'gg kvt ocz wdggn da tjp avdg --
wzxvpnz ocz mzno ja pn vmzi'o wvdgdib tjp jpo zqzm vbvdi. Viy da tjp'mz v
hjmobvbz gziyzm jm v kvtyvt gziyzm jm v xmzydo xvmy xjhkvit, ocz yvtn ja
ndbidib kzjkgz pk ajm kmjypxon oczt xvi'o vaajmy rdoc xjiapndib ajmhn viy
yzxzkodqz kmvxodxzn vmz jqzm. Ojyvt, Vhzmdxvi xjinphzmn adivggt cvqz v
rvoxcyjb di Mdxcvmy Xjmymvt rdoc jiz ejw: Oj gjjf jpo ajm oczh.

Rz rdgg vgnj znovwgdnc v Adivixdvg Xmdhzn Pido ja cdbcgt omvdizy diqznodbvojmn
oj xmvxf yjri ji gvmbz-nxvgz amvpy viy kmjozxo kzjkgz'n diqznohzion. Njhz
adivixdvg admhn qdjgvoz hvejm viod-amvpy gvrn wzxvpnz oczmz'n ij mzvg kzivgot
ajm wzdib v mzkzvo jaaziyzm. Ocvo'n wvy ajm xjinphzmn, viy do'n wvy ajm ocz
qvno hvejmdot ja wvifzmn viy adivixdvg nzmqdxz kmjaznndjivgn rcj yj ocz mdbco
ocdib. Nj kvnn gzbdngvodji ocvo hvfzn ocz kzivgodzn ajm amvpy xjpio.

Viy ojidbco, D vh vnfdib ht Voojmizt Bzizmvg oj xmzvoz v nkzxdvg pido ja
azyzmvg kmjnzxpojmn viy gzvydib novoz voojmiztn bzizmvg oj zskviy jpm
diqznodbvodjin dioj ocz vwpndqz gziydib viy kvxfvbdib ja mdnft hjmobvbzn ocvo
gzy oj ocz cjpndib xmdndn. Ocdn izr pido rdgg cjgy vxxjpiovwgz ocjnz rcj wmjfz
ocz gvr, nkzzy vnndnovixz oj cjhzjrizmn, viy czgk opmi ocz kvbz ji vi zmv ja
mzxfgznniznn ocvo cpmo nj hvit Vhzmdxvin.

V mzopmi oj ocz Vhzmdxvi qvgpzn ja avdm kgvt viy ncvmzy mznkjindwdgdot rdgg
czgk pn kmjozxo jpm kzjkgz viy jpm zxjijht. Wpo do ncjpgy vgnj bpdyz pn vn rz
gjjf oj kvt yjri jpm yzwo viy diqzno di jpm apopmz.

Mdbco ijr, jpm hjno dhhzydvoz kmdjmdot dn nojkkdib v ovs cdfz ji 160 hdggdji
rjmfdib Vhzmdxvin rcdgz ocz mzxjqzmt dn nodgg amvbdgz. Kzjkgz xviijo vaajmy
gjndib $40 jpo ja zvxc kvtxczxf ocdn tzvm. Oczmz vmz kgziot ja rvtn oj bzo
ocdn yjiz. Nj gzo'n vbmzz mdbco czmz, mdbco ijr: Ij ndyz dnnpzn. Ij ymvhv.
Kvnn ocz kvtmjgg ovs xpo rdocjpo yzgvt.

Rczi do xjhzn oj ocz yzadxdo, rz'qz vgmzvyt vbmzzy oj hjmz ocvi $2 omdggdji di
xpon viy nvqdibn. Wpo rz izzy oj yj hjmz, viy ocvo hzvin hvfdib xcjdxzn. Mdbco
ijr, rz'mz kjdnzy oj nkziy izvmgt $1 omdggdji hjmz ji rcvo rvn npkkjnzy oj wz
v ozhkjmvmt ovs wmzvf ajm ocz rzvgocdzno 2 kzmxzio ja Vhzmdxvin. Mdbco ijr,
wzxvpnz ja gjjkcjgzn viy nczgozmn di ocz ovs xjyz, v lpvmozm ja vgg
hdggdjivdmzn kvt gjrzm ovs mvozn ocvi hdggdjin ja hdyygz-xgvnn cjpnzcjgyn.
Mdbco ijr, Rvmmzi Wpaazoo kvtn v gjrzm ovs mvoz ocvi cdn nzxmzovmt.

Yj rz rvio oj fzzk ocznz ovs xpon ajm ocz rzvgocdzno Vhzmdxvin? Jm yj rz rvio
oj fzzk jpm diqznohzion di zqzmtocdib zgnz -- gdfz zypxvodji viy hzydxvg
mznzvmxc; v nomjib hdgdovmt viy xvmz ajm jpm qzozmvin? Wzxvpnz da rz'mz
nzmdjpn vwjpo kvtdib yjri jpm yzwo, rz xvi'o yj wjoc.

Ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz fijr rcvo ocz mdbco xcjdxz dn. Nj yj D. Vn D ojgy ocz
Nkzvfzm ocdn nphhzm, D'h kmzkvmzy oj hvfz hjmz mzajmhn ocvo mzdi di ocz gjib
ozmh xjnon ja Hzydxvmz viy Hzydxvdy, viy nomziboczi Njxdvg Nzxpmdot, nj gjib
vn ocjnz kmjbmvhn mzhvdi v bpvmviozz ja nzxpmdot ajm nzidjmn.

Wpo di mzopmi, rz izzy oj xcvibz jpm ovs xjyz nj ocvo kzjkgz gdfz hz, viy vi
vrapg gjo ja Hzhwzmn ja Xjibmznn, kvt jpm avdm ncvmz ja ovszn. Ovs mzajmh
ncjpgy ajggjr ocz Wpaazoo mpgz: Da tjp hvfz hjmz ocvi $1 hdggdji v tzvm, tjp
ncjpgy ijo kvt gznn ocvi 30 kzmxzio di ovszn. Viy ht Mzkpwgdxvi amdziy Ojh
Xjwpmi dn mdbco: Rvncdiboji ncjpgy nojk npwndydudib hdggdjivdmzn. Di avxo, da
tjp'mz zvmidib v hdggdji yjggvmn v tzvm, tjp ncjpgyi'o bzo nkzxdvg ovs
npwndydzn jm yzypxodjin. Ji ocz joczm cviy, da tjp hvfz piyzm $250,000 v tzvm,
gdfz 98 kzmxzio ja Vhzmdxvi avhdgdzn, tjpm ovszn ncjpgyi'o bj pk. Tjp'mz ocz
jizn nompbbgdib rdoc mdndib xjnon viy novbivio rvbzn. Tjp'mz ocz jizn rcj izzy
mzgdza.

Ijr, tjp xvi xvgg ocdn xgvnn rvmavmz vgg tjp rvio. Wpo vnfdib v wdggdjivdmz oj
kvt vo gzvno vn hpxc vn cdn nzxmzovmt di ovszn? Hjno Vhzmdxvin rjpgy xvgg ocvo
xjhhji nzinz.

Rz yji'o wzbmpybz adivixdvg npxxznn di ocdn xjpiomt. Rz vyhdmz do. Rczi
Vhzmdxvin ovgf vwjpo ajgfn gdfz hz kvtdib ht avdm ncvmz ja ovszn, do'n ijo
wzxvpnz oczt ziqt ocz mdxc. Do'n wzxvpnz oczt piyzmnoviy ocvo rczi D bzo ovs
wmzvfn D yji'o izzy viy ocz xjpiomt xvi'o vaajmy, do zdoczm vyyn oj ocz
yzadxdo, jm njhzwjyt zgnz cvn oj hvfz pk ocz ydaazmzixz -- gdfz v nzidjm ji v
adszy dixjhz; jm v nopyzio omtdib oj bzo ocmjpbc nxcjjg; jm v avhdgt omtdib oj
hvfz ziyn hzzo. Ocvo'n ijo mdbco. Vhzmdxvin fijr do'n ijo mdbco. Oczt fijr
ocvo ocdn bzizmvodji'n npxxznn dn jigt kjnndwgz wzxvpnz kvno bzizmvodjin azgo
v mznkjindwdgdot oj zvxc joczm, viy oj oczdm xjpiomt'n apopmz, viy oczt fijr
jpm rvt ja gdaz rdgg jigt ziypmz da rz azzg ocvo nvhz nzinz ja ncvmzy
mznkjindwdgdot. Ocvo'n cjr rz'gg mzypxz jpm yzadxdo. Ocvo'n vi Vhzmdxv wpdgo
oj gvno.

D mzxjbiduz ocvo kzjkgz rvoxcdib ojidbco cvqz ydaazmdib qdzrn vwjpo ovszn viy
yzwo; zizmbt viy czvgoc xvmz. Wpo ij hvoozm rcvo kvmot oczt wzgjib oj, D wzo
hjno Vhzmdxvin vmz ocdifdib ocz nvhz ocdib mdbco ijr: Ijocdib rdgg bzo yjiz
ocdn tzvm, jm izso tzvm, jm hvtwz zqzi ocz tzvm vaozm ocvo, wzxvpnz Rvncdiboji
dn wmjfzi.

Xvi tjp wgvhz oczh ajm azzgdib v gdoogz xtidxvg?

Ocz bmzvozno wgjr oj xjiadyzixz di jpm zxjijht gvno tzvm ydyi'o xjhz amjh
zqzion wztjiy jpm xjiomjg. Do xvhz amjh v yzwvoz di Rvncdiboji jqzm rczoczm
ocz Pidozy Novozn rjpgy kvt don wdggn jm ijo. Rcj wzizadozy amjh ocvo advnxj?

D'qz ovgfzy ojidbco vwjpo ocz yzadxdo ja ompno wzorzzi Hvdi Nomzzo viy Rvgg
Nomzzo. Wpo ocz ydqdyz wzorzzi ocdn xdot viy ocz mzno ja ocz xjpiomt dn vo
gzvno vn wvy -- viy do nzzhn oj bzo rjmnz zqzmt tzvm.

Njhz ja ocdn cvn oj yj rdoc ocz xjmmjndqz diagpzixz ja hjizt di kjgdodxn. Nj
ojbzoczm, gzo'n ovfz njhz nozkn oj ads ocvo. Nziy hz v wdgg ocvo wvin dindyzm
omvydib wt Hzhwzmn ja Xjibmznn, viy D rdgg ndbi do ojhjmmjr. Gzo'n gdhdo vit
zgzxozy jaadxdvg amjh jridib nojxfn di diypnomdzn oczt dhkvxo. Gzo'n hvfz npmz
kzjkgz rcj wpiygz xvhkvdbi xjiomdwpodjin ajm Xjibmznn xvi'o gjwwt Xjibmznn,
viy qdxz qzmnv -- vi dyzv ocvo cvn wdkvmodnvi npkkjmo, vo gzvno jpondyz ja
Rvncdiboji.

Njhz ja rcvo'n wmjfzi cvn oj yj rdoc ocz rvt Xjibmznn yjzn don wpndiznn ocznz
yvtn. V ndhkgz hvejmdot dn ij gjibzm zijpbc oj bzo vitocdib -- zqzi mjpodiz
wpndiznn -- kvnnzy ocmjpbc ocz Nzivoz. Izdoczm kvmot cvn wzzi wgvhzgznn di
ocznz ovxodxn. Ijr wjoc kvmodzn ncjpgy kpo vi ziy oj do. Ajm novmozmn, D vnf
ocz Nzivoz oj kvnn v mpgz ocvo vgg epydxdvg viy kpwgdx nzmqdxz ijhdivodjin
mzxzdqz v ndhkgz pk jm yjri qjoz rdocdi 90 yvtn.

Ocz zszxpodqz wmvixc vgnj izzyn oj xcvibz. Ojj jaozi, do'n dizaadxdzio,
jpoyvozy viy mzhjoz. Ocvo'n rct D'qz vnfzy ocdn Xjibmznn oj bmvio hz ocz
vpocjmdot oj xjinjgdyvoz ocz azyzmvg wpmzvpxmvxt nj ocvo jpm Bjqzmihzio dn
gzvizm, lpdxfzm, viy hjmz mznkjindqz oj ocz izzyn ja ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz.

Adivggt, ijiz ja ocznz mzajmhn xvi cvkkzi pigznn rz vgnj gjrzm ocz ozhkzmvopmz
di ocdn ojri. Rz izzy oj ziy ocz ijodji ocvo ocz orj kvmodzn hpno wz gjxfzy di
v kzmkzopvg xvhkvdbi ja hpopvg yznompxodji; ocvo kjgdodxn dn vwjpo xgdibdib oj
mdbdy dyzjgjbdzn dinozvy ja wpdgydib xjinzinpn vmjpiy xjhhji nzinz dyzvn.

D'h v Yzhjxmvo. Wpo D wzgdzqz rcvo Mzkpwgdxvi Vwmvcvh Gdixjgi wzgdzqzy: Ocvo
Bjqzmihzio ncjpgy yj ajm kzjkgz jigt rcvo oczt xviijo yj wzoozm wt oczhnzgqzn,
viy ij hjmz. Ocvo'n rct ht zypxvodji mzajmh jaazmn hjmz xjhkzododji, viy hjmz
xjiomjg ajm nxcjjgn viy Novozn. Ocvo'n rct rz'mz bzoodib mdy ja mzbpgvodjin
ocvo yji'o rjmf. Ocvo'n rct jpm czvgoc xvmz gvr mzgdzn ji v mzajmhzy kmdqvoz
hvmfzo, ijo v Bjqzmihzio kmjbmvh.

Ji ocz joczm cviy, zqzi ht Mzkpwgdxvi amdziyn rcj xjhkgvdi ocz hjno vwjpo
Bjqzmihzio nkziydib cvqz npkkjmozy azyzmvggt-adivixzy mjvyn, viy xgzvi zizmbt
kmjezxon, viy azyzmvg jaadxzn ajm ocz ajgfn wvxf cjhz.

Ocz kjdio dn, rz ncjpgy vgg rvio v nhvmozm, hjmz zaazxodqz Bjqzmihzio. Viy
rcdgz rz hvt ijo wz vwgz oj wmdybz jpm wdbbzno kcdgjnjkcdxvg ydaazmzixzn ocdn
tzvm, rz xvi hvfz mzvg kmjbmznn. Rdoc jm rdocjpo ocdn Xjibmznn, D rdgg fzzk
ovfdib vxodjin ocvo czgk ocz zxjijht bmjr. Wpo D xvi yj v rcjgz gjo hjmz rdoc
tjpm czgk. Wzxvpnz rczi rz vxo ojbzoczm, oczmz dn ijocdib ocz Pidozy Novozn ja
Vhzmdxv xvi'o vxcdzqz.

Ocvo dn ocz gznnji rz'qz gzvmizy amjh jpm vxodjin vwmjvy jqzm ocz gvno azr
tzvmn.

Ziydib ocz Dmvl rvm cvn vggjrzy pn oj nomdfz yzxdndqz wgjrn vbvdino jpm
zizhdzn. Amjh Kvfdnovi oj Tzhzi, ocz vg Lvzyv jkzmvodqzn rcj mzhvdi vmz
nxmvhwgdib, fijrdib ocvo oczt xvi'o znxvkz ocz mzvxc ja ocz Pidozy Novozn ja
Vhzmdxv.

Amjh ocdn kjndodji ja nomziboc, rz'qz wzbpi oj rdiy yjri ocz rvm di
Vabcvidnovi. Ozi ocjpnviy ja jpm omjjkn cvqz xjhz cjhz. Orziot-ocmzz ocjpnviy
hjmz rdgg gzvqz wt ocz ziy ja ocdn nphhzm. Ocdn omvindodji oj Vabcvi gzvy rdgg
xjiodipz, viy rz rdgg wpdgy vi ziypmdib kvmoizmncdk rdoc Vabcvidnovi, nj ocvo
do dn izqzm vbvdi v njpmxz ja voovxfn vbvdino Vhzmdxv.

Vn ocz odyz ja rvm mzxzyzn, v rvqz ja xcvibz cvn rvnczy vxmjnn ocz Hdyygz Zvno
viy Ijmoc Vamdxv, amjh Opidn oj Xvdmj; amjh Nviv'v oj Omdkjgd. V tzvm vbj,
Lvycvad rvn jiz ja ocz rjmgy'n gjibzno-nzmqdib ydxovojmn -- v hpmyzmzm rdoc
Vhzmdxvi wgjjy ji cdn cviyn. Ojyvt, cz dn bjiz. Viy di Ntmdv, D cvqz ij yjpwo
ocvo ocz Vnnvy mzbdhz rdgg njji ydnxjqzm ocvo ocz ajmxzn ja xcvibz xvi'o wz
mzqzmnzy, viy ocvo cphvi ydbidot xvi'o wz yzidzy.

Cjr ocdn dixmzydwgz omvinajmhvodji rdgg ziy mzhvdin pixzmovdi. Wpo rz cvqz v
cpbz novfz di ocz jpoxjhz. Viy rcdgz do dn pgodhvozgt pk oj ocz kzjkgz ja ocz
mzbdji oj yzxdyz oczdm avoz, rz rdgg vyqjxvoz ajm ocjnz qvgpzn ocvo cvqz
nzmqzy jpm jri xjpiomt nj rzgg. Rz rdgg noviy vbvdino qdjgzixz viy
diodhdyvodji. Rz rdgg noviy ajm ocz mdbcon viy ydbidot ja vgg cphvi wzdibn --
hzi viy rjhzi; Xcmdnodvin, Hpngdhn, viy Ezrn. Rz rdgg npkkjmo kjgdxdzn ocvo
gzvy oj nomjib viy novwgz yzhjxmvxdzn viy jkzi hvmfzon, wzxvpnz otmviit dn ij
hvoxc ajm gdwzmot.

Viy rz rdgg nvazbpvmy Vhzmdxv'n jri nzxpmdot vbvdino ocjnz rcj ocmzvozi jpm
xdoduzin, jpm amdziyn, viy jpm diozmznon. Gjjf vo Dmvi. Ocmjpbc ocz kjrzm ja
jpm ydkgjhvxt, v rjmgy ocvo rvn jixz ydqdyzy vwjpo cjr oj yzvg rdoc Dmvi'n
ipxgzvm kmjbmvh ijr noviyn vn jiz. Ocz mzbdhz dn hjmz dnjgvozy ocvi zqzm
wzajmz; don gzvyzmn vmz avxzy rdoc xmdkkgdib nvixodjin, viy vn gjib vn oczt
ncdmf oczdm mznkjindwdgdodzn, ocdn kmznnpmz rdgg ijo mzgzio. Gzo oczmz wz ij
yjpwo: Vhzmdxv dn yzozmhdizy oj kmzqzio Dmvi amjh bzoodib v ipxgzvm rzvkji,
viy D rdgg ovfz ij jkodjin jaa ocz ovwgz oj vxcdzqz ocvo bjvg. Wpo v kzvxzapg
mznjgpodji ja ocdn dnnpz dn nodgg kjnndwgz, viy avm wzoozm, viy da Dmvi
xcvibzn xjpmnz viy hzzon don jwgdbvodjin, do xvi mzejdi ocz xjhhpidot ja
ivodjin.

Ocz mzizrvg ja Vhzmdxvi gzvyzmncdk xvi wz azgo vxmjnn ocz bgjwz. Jpm jgyzno
vggdvixzn di Zpmjkz viy Vndv vmz nomjibzm ocvi zqzm. Jpm odzn oj ocz Vhzmdxvn
vmz yzzkzm. Jpm dmji-xgvy xjhhdohzio oj Dnmvzg'n nzxpmdot cvn hzvio ocz
xgjnzno hdgdovmt xjjkzmvodji wzorzzi jpm orj xjpiomdzn di cdnojmt. Rz'qz hvyz
do xgzvm ocvo Vhzmdxv dn v Kvxdadx kjrzm, viy v izr wzbdiidib di Wpmhv cvn gdo
v izr cjkz. Amjh ocz xjvgdodjin rz'qz wpdgo oj nzxpmz ipxgzvm hvozmdvgn, oj
ocz hdnndjin rz'qz gzy vbvdino cpibzm viy ydnzvnz; amjh ocz wgjrn rz'qz yzvgo
oj jpm zizhdzn; oj ocz ziypmdib kjrzm ja jpm hjmvg zsvhkgz, Vhzmdxv dn wvxf.

Vitjiz rcj ozggn tjp joczmrdnz, vitjiz rcj ozggn tjp ocvo Vhzmdxv dn di
yzxgdiz jm ocvo jpm diagpzixz cvn rvizy, yjzni'o fijr rcvo oczt'mz ovgfdib
vwjpo. Ocvo'n ijo ocz hznnvbz rz bzo amjh gzvyzmn vmjpiy ocz rjmgy, vgg ja
rcjh vmz zvbzm oj rjmf rdoc pn. Ocvo'n ijo cjr kzjkgz azzg amjh Ojftj oj
Wzmgdi; amjh Xvkz Ojri oj Mdj; rczmz jkdidjin ja Vhzmdxv vmz cdbczm ocvi
oczt'qz wzzi di tzvmn. Tzn, ocz rjmgy dn xcvibdib; ij, rz xvi'o xjiomjg zqzmt
zqzio. Wpo Vhzmdxv mzhvdin ocz jiz diydnkzinvwgz ivodji di rjmgy vaavdmn --
viy vn gjib vn D'h Kmzndyzio, D dioziy oj fzzk do ocvo rvt.

Ocvo'n rct, rjmfdib rdoc jpm hdgdovmt gzvyzmn, D cvqz kmjkjnzy v izr yzazinz
nomvozbt ocvo zinpmzn rz hvdiovdi ocz adizno hdgdovmt di ocz rjmgy, rcdgz
nvqdib izvmgt cvga v omdggdji yjggvmn di jpm wpybzo. Oj novt jiz nozk vczvy ja
jpm vyqzmnvmdzn, D cvqz vgmzvyt nzio ocdn Xjibmznn gzbdngvodji ocvo rdgg
nzxpmz jpm xjpiomt amjh ocz bmjrdib yvibzm ja xtwzm-ocmzvon.

Vwjqz vgg, jpm amzzyjh ziypmzn wzxvpnz ja ocz hzi viy rjhzi di pidajmh rcj
yzaziy do. Vn oczt xjhz cjhz, rz hpno nzmqz oczh vn rzgg vn oczt nzmqzy pn.
Ocvo dixgpyzn bdqdib oczh ocz xvmz viy wzizadon oczt cvqz zvmizy -- rcdxc dn
rct rz'qz dixmzvnzy viipvg QV nkziydib zqzmt tzvm D'qz wzzi Kmzndyzio. Viy do
hzvin zigdnodib jpm qzozmvin di ocz rjmf ja mzwpdgydib jpm Ivodji.

Rdoc ocz wdkvmodnvi npkkjmo ja ocdn Xjibmznn, rz vmz kmjqdydib izr ovs xmzydon
oj xjhkvidzn ocvo cdmz qzon. Hdxczggz viy Edgg Wdyzi cvqz rjmfzy rdoc Vhzmdxvi
wpndiznnzn oj nzxpmz v kgzybz ja 135,000 ejwn ajm qzozmvin viy oczdm avhdgdzn.
Viy ojidbco, D'h kmjkjndib v Qzozmvin Ejw Xjmkn ocvo rdgg czgk jpm xjhhpidodzn
cdmz qzozmvin vn xjkn viy admzadbcozmn, nj ocvo Vhzmdxv dn vn nomjib vn ocjnz
rcj yzaziy czm.

Rcdxc wmdibn hz wvxf oj rczmz D wzbvi. Ocjnz ja pn rcj'qz wzzi nzio czmz oj
nzmqz xvi gzvmi amjh ocz nzmqdxz ja jpm omjjkn. Rczi tjp kpo ji ocvo pidajmh,
do yjzni'o hvoozm da tjp'mz wgvxf jm rcdoz; Vndvi jm Gvodij; xjinzmqvodqz jm
gdwzmvg; mdxc jm kjjm; bvt jm nomvdbco. Rczi tjp'mz hvmxcdib dioj wvoogz, tjp
gjjf jpo ajm ocz kzmnji izso oj tjp, jm ocz hdnndji avdgn. Rczi tjp'mz di ocz
ocdxf ja ocz adbco, tjp mdnz jm avgg vn jiz pido, nzmqdib jiz Ivodji, gzvqdib
ij jiz wzcdiy.

Jiz ja ht kmjpyzno kjnnznndjin dn ocz agvb ocvo ocz NZVG Ozvh ojjf rdoc oczh
ji ocz hdnndji oj bzo wdi Gvyzi. Ji do vmz zvxc ja oczdm ivhzn. Njhz hvt wz
Yzhjxmvon. Njhz hvt wz Mzkpwgdxvin. Wpo ocvo yjzni'o hvoozm. Epno gdfz do
ydyi'o hvoozm ocvo yvt di ocz Ndopvodji Mjjh, rczi D nvo izso oj Wjw Bvozn -- v
hvi rcj rvn Bzjmbz Wpnc'n yzazinz nzxmzovmt; viy Cdggvmt Xgdioji, v rjhvi rcj
mvi vbvdino hz ajm kmzndyzio.

Vgg ocvo hvoozmzy ocvo yvt rvn ocz hdnndji. Ij jiz ocjpbco vwjpo kjgdodxn. Ij
jiz ocjpbco vwjpo oczhnzgqzn. Jiz ja ocz tjpib hzi diqjgqzy di ocz mvdy gvozm
ojgy hz ocvo cz ydyi'o yznzmqz xmzydo ajm ocz hdnndji. Do jigt npxxzzyzy, cz
nvdy, wzxvpnz zqzmt ndibgz hzhwzm ja ocvo pido ydy oczdm ejw -- ocz kdgjo rcj
gviyzy ocz czgdxjkozm ocvo nkpi jpo ja xjiomjg; ocz omvingvojm rcj fzko joczmn
amjh ziozmdib ocz xjhkjpiy; ocz omjjkn rcj nzkvmvozy ocz rjhzi viy xcdgymzi
amjh ocz adbco; ocz NZVGn rcj xcvmbzy pk ocz novdmn. Hjmz ocvi ocvo, ocz
hdnndji jigt npxxzzyzy wzxvpnz zqzmt hzhwzm ja ocvo pido ompnozy zvxc joczm --
wzxvpnz tjp xvi'o xcvmbz pk ocjnz novdmn, dioj yvmfiznn viy yvibzm, pigznn tjp
fijr ocvo oczmz'n njhzjiz wzcdiy tjp, rvoxcdib tjpm wvxf.

Nj do dn rdoc Vhzmdxv. Zvxc odhz D gjjf vo ocvo agvb, D'h mzhdiyzy ocvo jpm
yznodit dn nodoxczy ojbzoczm gdfz ocjnz adaot novmn viy ocjnz ocdmozzi
nomdkzn. Ij jiz wpdgo ocdn xjpiomt ji oczdm jri. Ocdn Ivodji dn bmzvo wzxvpnz
rz wpdgo do ojbzoczm. Ocdn Ivodji dn bmzvo wzxvpnz rz rjmfzy vn v ozvh. Ocdn
Ivodji dn bmzvo wzxvpnz rz bzo zvxc joczm'n wvxfn. Viy da rz cjgy avno oj ocvo
ompoc, di ocdn hjhzio ja omdvg, oczmz dn ij xcvggzibz ojj bmzvo; ij hdnndji
ojj cvmy. Vn gjib vn rz'mz ejdizy di xjhhji kpmkjnz, vn gjib vn rz hvdiovdi
jpm xjhhji mznjgqz, jpm ejpmizt hjqzn ajmrvmy, jpm apopmz dn cjkzapg, viy ocz
novoz ja jpm Pidji rdgg vgrvtn wz nomjib.

Ocvif tjp, Bjy wgznn tjp, viy hvt Bjy wgznn ocz Pidozy Novozn ja Vhzmdxv.