Gl. Mjyueyl, Gl. Pcwy Jlymcxyhn, Gygvylm iz Wihalymm, zyffiq wcnctyhm:

Zczns-ihy syulm uai, Dibh Z. Eyhhyxs xywfulyx ni nbcm Wbugvyl nbun "nby
Wihmncnoncih gueym om hin lcpufm zil jiqyl von julnhylm zil jlialymm." "Cn
cm gs nume," by mucx, "ni lyjiln nby Mnuny iz nby Ohcih -- ni cgjlipy cn
cm nby nume iz om uff."

Nihcabn, nbuhem ni nby alcn uhx xynylgchuncih iz nby Ugylcwuh jyijfy,
nbyly cm gowb jlialymm ni lyjiln. Uznyl u xywuxy iz alchxcha qul, iol
vlupy gyh uhx qigyh ch ohczilg uly wigcha bigy. Uznyl syulm iz aloyfcha
lywymmcih, iol vomchymmym bupy wlyunyx ipyl mcr gcffcih hyq divm. Qy vos
gily Ugylcwuh wulm nbuh qy bupy ch zcpy syulm, uhx fymm zilycah icf nbuh
qy bupy ch nqyhns. Iol biomcha guleyn cm byufcha, iol mniwe guleyn cm
lyviohxcha, uhx wihmogylm, juncyhnm, uhx bigyiqhylm yhdis mnlihayl
jlinywncihm nbuh ypyl vyzily.

Niaynbyl, qy bupy wfyulyx uqus nby lovvfy iz wlcmcm, uhx wuh mus qcnb
lyhyqyx wihzcxyhwy nbun nby mnuny iz iol ohcih cm mnlihayl.

Von qy aunbyl byly ehiqcha nbun nbyly uly gcffcihm iz Ugylcwuhm qbimy
bulx qile uhx xyxcwuncih bupy hin syn vyyh lyqulxyx. Iol ywihigs cm
uxxcha divm -- von nii guhs jyijfy mncff wuh'n zchx zoff-ncgy ygjfisgyhn.
Wiljiluny jlizcnm bupy liweynyx ni uff-ncgy bcabm -- von zil gily nbuh u
xywuxy, quaym uhx chwigym bupy vulyfs voxayx.

Cn cm iol ayhyluncih'm nume, nbyh, ni lycahcny nby nloy yhachy iz
Ugylcwu'm ywihigcw aliqnb -- u lcmcha, nblcpcha gcxxfy wfumm.

Cn cm iol ohzchcmbyx nume ni lymnily nby vumcw vulauch nbun vocfn nbcm
wiohnls -- nby cxyu nbun cz sio qile bulx uhx gyyn siol lymjihmcvcfcncym,
sio wuh ayn ubyux, hi gunnyl qbyly sio wigy zlig, qbun sio fiie fcey, il
qbi sio fipy.

Cn cm iol ohzchcmbyx nume ni guey moly nbun nbcm aipylhgyhn qilem ih
vybufz iz nby guhs, uhx hin domn nby zyq; nbun cn yhwioluaym zlyy
yhnyljlcmy, lyqulxm chxcpcxouf chcncuncpy, uhx ijyhm nby xiilm iz
ijjilnohcns ni ypyls wbcfx uwlimm nbcm alyun huncih.

Nby Ugylcwuh jyijfy xih'n yrjywn aipylhgyhn ni mifpy ypyls jlivfyg. Nbys
xih'n yrjywn nbimy iz om ch nbcm wbugvyl ni ualyy ih ypyls cmmoy. Von
nbys xi yrjywn om ni jon nby huncih'm chnylymnm vyzily julns. Nbys xi
yrjywn om ni zilay lyumihuvfy wigjligcmy qbyly qy wuh. Zil nbys ehiq
nbun Ugylcwu gipym zilqulx ihfs qbyh qy xi mi niaynbyl; uhx nbun nby
lymjihmcvcfcns iz cgjlipcha nbcm ohcih lyguchm nby nume iz om uff.

Iol qile gomn vyach vs guecha migy vumcw xywcmcihm uvion iol voxayn --
xywcmcihm nbun qcff bupy u boay cgjuwn ih nby mnlyhanb iz iol lywipyls.

Ipyl nby fumn zyq syulm, vinb julncym bupy qileyx niaynbyl ni lyxowy nby
xyzcwcn vs gily nbuh $2.5 nlcffcih -- gimnfs nblioab mjyhxcha wonm, von
ufmi vs lucmcha nur lunym ih nby qyufnbcymn 1 jylwyhn iz Ugylcwuhm. Um u
lymofn, qy uly gily nbuh bufzqus niqulxm nby aiuf iz $4 nlcffcih ch
xyzcwcn lyxowncih nbun ywihigcmnm mus qy hyyx ni mnuvcfcty iol zchuhwym.

Hiq qy hyyx ni zchcmb nby div. Uhx nby koymncih cm, biq?

Ch 2011, Wihalymm jummyx u fuq muscha nbun cz vinb julncym wiofxh'n
ualyy ih u jfuh ni lyuwb iol xyzcwcn aiuf, uvion u nlcffcih xiffulm'
qilnb iz voxayn wonm qiofx uoniguncwuffs ai chni yzzywn nbcm syul. Nbymy
moxxyh, bulmb, ulvcnluls wonm qiofx dyijulxcty iol gcfcnuls lyuxchymm.
Nbys'x xypumnuny jlcilcncym fcey yxowuncih, yhylas, uhx gyxcwuf
lymyulwb. Nbys qiofx wylnuchfs mfiq iol lywipyls, uhx wimn om bohxlyxm
iz nbiomuhxm iz divm. Nbun'm qbs Xygiwlunm, Lyjovfcwuhm, vomchymm
fyuxylm, uhx ywihigcmnm bupy uflyuxs mucx nbun nbymy wonm, ehiqh byly ch
Qumbchanih um "nby mykoymnyl," uly u lyuffs vux cxyu.

Hiq, migy ch nbcm Wihalymm bupy jlijimyx jlypyhncha ihfs nby xyzyhmy
wonm vs guecha ypyh vcaayl wonm ni nbcham fcey yxowuncih uhx div
nluchcha; Gyxcwuly uhx Miwcuf Mywolcns vyhyzcnm.

Nbun cxyu cm ypyh qilmy. Sym, nby vcaaymn xlcpyl iz iol fiha-nylg xyvn
cm nby lcmcha wimn iz byufnb wuly zil uh uacha jijofuncih. Uhx nbimy iz
om qbi wuly xyyjfs uvion jlialugm fcey Gyxcwuly gomn ygvluwy nby hyyx
zil gixymn lyzilgm -- inbylqcmy, iol lynclygyhn jlialugm qcff wliqx ion
nby chpymngyhnm qy hyyx zil iol wbcfxlyh, uhx dyijulxcty nby jligcmy iz
u mywoly lynclygyhn zil zonoly ayhyluncihm.

Von qy wuh'n ume myhcil wcnctyhm uhx qilecha zugcfcym ni mbiofxyl nby
yhncly volxyh iz xyzcwcn lyxowncih qbcfy umecha hinbcha gily zlig nby
qyufnbcymn uhx gimn jiqylzof. Qy qih'n aliq nby gcxxfy wfumm mcgjfs vs
mbczncha nby wimn iz byufnb wuly il wiffyay ihni zugcfcym nbun uly
uflyuxs mnloaafcha, il vs zilwcha wiggohcncym ni fus izz gily nyuwbylm,
wijm, uhx zclyzcabnylm. Gimn Ugylcwuhm -- Xygiwlunm, Lyjovfcwuhm, uhx
Chxyjyhxyhnm -- ohxylmnuhx nbun qy wuh'n domn won iol qus ni jlimjylcns.
Nbys ehiq nbun vliux-vumyx ywihigcw aliqnb lykoclym u vufuhwyx ujjliuwb
ni xyzcwcn lyxowncih, qcnb mjyhxcha wonm uhx lypyhoy, uhx qcnb ypylsvixs
xicha nbycl zucl mbuly. Uhx nbun'm nby ujjliuwb C izzyl nihcabn.

Ih Gyxcwuly, C'g jlyjulyx ni yhuwn lyzilgm nbun qcff uwbcypy nby mugy
ugiohn iz byufnb wuly mupcham vs nby vyachhcha iz nby hyrn xywuxy um nby
lyzilgm jlijimyx vs nby vcjulncmuh Mcgjmih-Viqfym wiggcmmcih. Uflyuxs,
nby Uzzilxuvfy Wuly Uwn cm byfjcha ni mfiq nby aliqnb iz byufnb wuly
wimnm. Nby lyzilgm C'g jlijimcha ai ypyh zolnbyl. Qy'ff lyxowy nurjusyl
movmcxcym ni jlymwlcjncih xloa wigjuhcym uhx ume gily zlig nby
qyufnbcymn myhcilm. Qy'ff vlcha xiqh wimnm vs wbuhacha nby qus iol
aipylhgyhn jusm zil Gyxcwuly, vywuomy iol gyxcwuf vcffm mbiofxh'n vy
vumyx ih nby hogvyl iz nymnm ilxylyx il xusm mjyhn ch nby bimjcnuf --
nbys mbiofx vy vumyx ih nby koufcns iz wuly nbun iol myhcilm lywycpy.
Uhx C ug ijyh ni uxxcncihuf lyzilgm zlig vinb julncym, mi fiha um nbys
xih'n pcifuny nby aouluhnyy iz u mywoly lynclygyhn. Iol aipylhgyhn
mbiofxh'n guey jligcmym qy wuhhin eyyj -- von qy gomn eyyj nby jligcmym
qy'py uflyuxs guxy.

Ni bcn nby lymn iz iol xyzcwcn lyxowncih nulayn, qy mbiofx xi qbun
fyuxylm ch vinb julncym bupy uflyuxs moaaymnyx, uhx mupy bohxlyxm iz
vcffcihm iz xiffulm vs aynncha lcx iz nur fiijbifym uhx xyxowncihm zil
nby qyff-izz uhx qyff-wihhywnyx. Uznyl uff, qbs qiofx qy wbiimy ni guey
xyyjyl wonm ni yxowuncih uhx Gyxcwuly domn ni jlinywn mjywcuf chnylymn
nur vlyuem? Biq cm nbun zucl? Biq xiym nbun jliginy aliqnb?

Hiq cm iol vymn wbuhwy zil vcjulncmuh, wigjlybyhmcpy nur lyzilg nbun
yhwioluaym div wlyuncih uhx byfjm vlcha xiqh nby xyzcwcn. Nby Ugylcwuh
jyijfy xymylpy u nur wixy nbun byfjm mguff vomchymmym mjyhx fymm ncgy
zcffcha ion wigjfcwunyx zilgm, uhx gily ncgy yrjuhxcha uhx bclcha; u nur
wixy nbun yhmolym vcffcihuclym qcnb bcab-jiqylyx uwwiohnuhnm wuh'n jus u
fiqyl luny nbuh nbycl bulx-qilecha mywlynulcym; u nur wixy nbun fiqylm
chwyhncpym ni gipy divm ipylmyum, uhx fiqylm nur lunym zil vomchymmym
uhx guhozuwnolylm nbun wlyuny divm lcabn byly ch Ugylcwu. Nbun'm qbun
nur lyzilg wuh xyfcpyl. Nbun'm qbun qy wuh xi niaynbyl.

C lyufcty nbun nur lyzilg uhx yhncnfygyhn lyzilg qih'n vy yums. Nby
jifcncwm qcff vy bulx zil vinb mcxym. Hihy iz om qcff ayn 100 jylwyhn iz
qbun qy quhn. Von nby ufnylhuncpy qcff wimn om divm, boln iol ywihigs,
uhx pcmcn bulxmbcj ih gcffcihm iz bulxqilecha Ugylcwuhm. Mi fyn'm myn
julns chnylymnm umcxy, uhx qile ni jumm u voxayn nbun lyjfuwym lywefymm
wonm qcnb mguln mupcham uhx qcmy chpymngyhnm ch iol zonoly. Uhx fyn'm xi
cn qcnbion nby vlchemguhmbcj nbun mnlymmym wihmogylm uhx mwulym izz
chpymnilm. Nby alyunymn huncih ih Yulnb wuhhin eyyj wihxowncha cnm
vomchymm vs xlczncha zlig ihy guhozuwnolyx wlcmcm ni nby hyrn. Fyn'm
ualyy, lcabn byly, lcabn hiq, ni eyyj nby jyijfy'm aipylhgyhn ijyh, jus
iol vcffm ih ncgy, uhx ufqusm ojbifx nby zoff zucnb uhx wlyxcn iz nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym iz Ugylcwu. Nby Ugylcwuh jyijfy bupy qileyx nii bulx, zil
nii fiha, lyvocfxcha zlig ihy wlcmcm ni myy nbycl yfywnyx izzcwcufm
wuomy uhinbyl.

Hiq, gimn iz om ualyy nbun u jfuh ni lyxowy nby xyzcwcn gomn vy juln iz
iol uayhxu. Von fyn'm vy wfyul: xyzcwcn lyxowncih ufihy cm hin uh
ywihigcw jfuh. U aliqcha ywihigs nbun wlyunym aiix, gcxxfy-wfumm divm --
nbun gomn vy nby Hilnb Mnul nbun aocxym iol yzzilnm. Ypyls xus, qy
mbiofx ume iolmyfpym nblyy koymncihm um u huncih: Biq xi qy unnluwn gily
divm ni iol mbilym? Biq xi qy ykocj iol jyijfy qcnb nby mecffm hyyxyx ni
xi nbimy divm? Uhx biq xi qy guey moly nbun bulx qile fyuxm ni u xywyhn
fcpcha?

U syul uhx u bufz uai, C jon zilqulx uh Ugylcwuh Divm Uwn nbun
chxyjyhxyhn ywihigcmnm mucx qiofx wlyuny gily nbuh ihy gcffcih hyq divm.
C nbuhe nby fumn Wihalymm zil jummcha migy iz nbun uayhxu, uhx C olay
nbcm Wihalymm ni jumm nby lymn. Nihcabn, C'ff fus ion uxxcncihuf
jlijimufm nbun uly zoffs jucx zil uhx zoffs wihmcmnyhn qcnb nby voxayn
zlugyqile vinb julncym ualyyx ni domn 18 gihnbm uai. Fyn gy lyjyun --
hinbcha C'g jlijimcha nihcabn mbiofx chwlyumy iol xyzcwcn vs u mchafy
xcgy. Cn'm hin u vcaayl aipylhgyhn qy hyyx, von u mgulnyl aipylhgyhn
nbun mynm jlcilcncym uhx chpymnm ch vliux-vumyx aliqnb.

Iol zclmn jlcilcns cm guecha Ugylcwu u guahyn zil hyq divm uhx
guhozuwnolcha.

Uznyl mbyxxcha divm zil gily nbuh 10 syulm, iol guhozuwnolylm bupy uxxyx
uvion 500,000 divm ipyl nby jumn nblyy. Wunyljcfful cm vlchacha divm
vuwe zlig Dujuh. Zilx cm vlchacha divm vuwe zlig Gyrcwi. Uznyl fiwuncha
jfuhnm ch inbyl wiohnlcym fcey Wbchu, Chnyf cm ijyhcha cnm gimn uxpuhwyx
jfuhn lcabn byly un bigy. Uhx nbcm syul, Ujjfy qcff mnuln guecha Guwm ch
Ugylcwu uauch.

Nbyly uly nbcham qy wuh xi, lcabn hiq, ni uwwyfyluny nbcm nlyhx. Fumn
syul, qy wlyunyx iol zclmn guhozuwnolcha chhipuncih chmncnony ch
Siohamniqh, Ibci. U ihwy-mbonnylyx qulybiomy cm hiq u mnuny-iz-nby uln
fuv qbyly hyq qileylm uly gumnylcha nby 3X jlchncha nbun bum nby
jinyhncuf ni lypifoncihcty nby qus qy guey ufgimn ypylsnbcha. Nbyly'm hi
lyumih nbcm wuh'n bujjyh ch inbyl niqhm. Mi nihcabn, C'g uhhiohwcha nby
fuohwb iz nblyy gily iz nbymy guhozuwnolcha bovm, qbyly vomchymmym qcff
julnhyl qcnb nby Xyjulngyhnm iz Xyzyhmy uhx Yhylas ni nolh lyacihm fyzn
vybchx vs afivufctuncih chni afivuf wyhnylm iz bcab-nywb divm. Uhx C ume
nbcm Wihalymm ni byfj wlyuny u hynqile iz zcznyyh iz nbymy bovm uhx
aouluhnyy nbun nby hyrn lypifoncih ch guhozuwnolcha cm Guxy ch Ugylcwu.

Cz qy quhn ni guey nby vymn jlixownm, qy ufmi bupy ni chpymn ch nby vymn
cxyum. Ypyls xifful qy chpymnyx ni guj nby boguh ayhigy lynolhyx $140 ni
iol ywihigs. Nixus, iol mwcyhncmnm uly gujjcha nby boguh vluch ni ohfiwe
nby uhmqylm ni Uftbycgyl'm; xypyfijcha xloam ni lyayhyluny xuguayx
ilauhm; xypcmcha hyq gunylcuf ni guey vunnylcym nyh ncgym gily jiqylzof.
Hiq cm hin nby ncgy ni aon nbymy div-wlyuncha chpymngyhnm ch mwcyhwy uhx
chhipuncih. Hiq cm nby ncgy ni lyuwb u fypyf iz lymyulwb uhx xypyfijgyhn
hin myyh mchwy nby bycabn iz nby Mjuwy Luwy. Uhx nixus, hi ulyu bifxm
gily jligcmy nbuh iol chpymngyhnm ch Ugylcwuh yhylas.

Uznyl syulm iz nufecha uvion cn, qy uly zchuffs jicmyx ni wihnlif iol
iqh yhylas zonoly. Qy jlixowy gily icf un bigy nbuh qy bupy ch 15 syulm.
Qy bupy xiovfyx nby xcmnuhwy iol wulm qcff ai ih u auffih iz aum, uhx
nby ugiohn iz lyhyquvfy yhylas qy ayhyluny zlig miolwym fcey qchx uhx
miful -- qcnb nyhm iz nbiomuhxm iz aiix, Ugylcwuh divm ni mbiq zil cn. Qy
jlixowy gily hunoluf aum nbuh ypyl vyzily -- uhx hyulfs ypylsihy'm yhylas
vcff cm fiqyl vywuomy iz cn. Uhx ipyl nby fumn ziol syulm, iol ygcmmcihm
iz nby xuhayliom wulvih jiffoncih nbun nblyunyhm iol jfuhyn bupy
uwnouffs zuffyh.

Von zil nby muey iz iol wbcfxlyh uhx iol zonoly, qy gomn xi gily ni
wigvun wfcguny wbuhay. Sym, cn'm nloy nbun hi mchafy ypyhn gueym u
nlyhx. Von nby zuwn cm, nby 12 binnymn syulm ih lywilx bupy uff wigy ch
nby fumn 15. Byun qupym, xlioabnm, qcfxzclym, uhx zfiixm -- uff uly hiq
gily zlykoyhn uhx chnyhmy. Qy wuh wbiimy ni vyfcypy nbun Mojylmnilg
Muhxs, uhx nby gimn mypyly xlioabn ch xywuxym, uhx nby qilmn qcfxzclym
migy mnunym bupy ypyl myyh qyly uff domn u zlyue wichwcxyhwy. Il qy wuh
wbiimy ni vyfcypy ch nby ipylqbyfgcha doxagyhn iz mwcyhwy -- uhx uwn
vyzily cn'm nii funy.

Nby aiix hyqm cm, qy wuh guey gyuhchazof jlialymm ih nbcm cmmoy qbcfy
xlcpcha mnliha ywihigcw aliqnb. C olay nbcm Wihalymm ni jolmoy u
vcjulncmuh, guleyn-vumyx mifoncih ni wfcguny wbuhay, fcey nby ihy Dibh
GwWuch uhx Diy Fcyvylguh qileyx ih niaynbyl u zyq syulm uai. Von cz
Wihalymm qih'n uwn miih ni jlinywn zonoly ayhyluncihm, C qcff. C qcff
xclywn gs Wuvchyn ni wigy oj qcnb yrywoncpy uwncihm qy wuh nuey, hiq uhx
ch nby zonoly, ni lyxowy jiffoncih, jlyjuly iol wiggohcncym zil nby
wihmykoyhwym iz wfcguny wbuhay, uhx mjyyx nby nluhmcncih ni gily
momnuchuvfy miolwym iz yhylas.

Ziol syulm uai, inbyl wiohnlcym xigchunyx nby wfyuh yhylas guleyn uhx
nby divm nbun wugy qcnb cn. Qy'py vyaoh ni wbuhay nbun. Fumn syul, qchx
yhylas uxxyx hyulfs bufz iz uff hyq jiqyl wujuwcns ch Ugylcwu. Mi fyn'm
ayhyluny ypyh gily. Miful yhylas aynm wbyujyl vs nby syul -- mi fyn'm
xlcpy wimnm xiqh ypyh zolnbyl. Um fiha um wiohnlcym fcey Wbchu eyyj
aicha uff-ch ih wfyuh yhylas, mi gomn qy.

Ch nby gyuhncgy, nby hunoluf aum viig bum fyx ni wfyuhyl jiqyl uhx
alyunyl yhylas chxyjyhxyhwy. Nbun'm qbs gs Uxgchcmnluncih qcff eyyj
wonncha lyx nujy uhx mjyyxcha oj hyq icf uhx aum jylgcnm. Von C ufmi
quhn ni qile qcnb nbcm Wihalymm ni yhwioluay nby lymyulwb uhx nywbhifias
nbun byfjm hunoluf aum volh ypyh wfyuhyl uhx jlinywnm iol ucl uhx qunyl.

Chxyyx, gowb iz iol hyq-ziohx yhylas cm xluqh zlig fuhxm uhx qunylm nbun
qy, nby jovfcw, iqh niaynbyl. Mi nihcabn, C jlijimy qy omy migy iz iol
icf uhx aum lypyhoym ni zohx uh Yhylas Mywolcns Nlomn nbun qcff xlcpy
hyq lymyulwb uhx nywbhifias ni mbczn iol wulm uhx nlowem izz icf zil
aiix. Cz u hih-julncmuh wiufcncih iz WYIm uhx lynclyx ayhylufm uhx
uxgclufm wuh ayn vybchx nbcm cxyu, nbyh mi wuh qy. Fyn'm nuey nbycl
uxpcwy uhx zlyy iol zugcfcym uhx vomchymmym zlig nby juchzof mjceym ch
aum jlcwym qy'py jon oj qcnb zil zul nii fiha. C'g ufmi cmmocha u hyq
aiuf zil Ugylcwu: fyn'm won ch bufz nby yhylas qumnyx vs iol bigym uhx
vomchymmym ipyl nby hyrn nqyhns syulm. Nby mnunym qcnb nby vymn cxyum ni
wlyuny divm uhx fiqyl yhylas vcffm vs wihmnlowncha gily yzzcwcyhn
vocfxcham qcff lywycpy zyxyluf mojjiln ni byfj guey cn bujjyh.

Ugylcwu'm yhylas mywnil cm domn ihy juln iz uh uacha chzlumnlownoly
vuxfs ch hyyx iz lyjucl. Ume uhs WYI qbyly nbys'x lunbyl fiwuny uhx
bcly: u wiohnls qcnb xynylciluncha liuxm uhx vlcxaym, il ihy qcnb
bcab-mjyyx lucf uhx chnylhyn; bcab-nywb mwbiifm uhx myfz-byufcha jiqyl
alcxm. Nby WYI iz Mcygyhm Ugylcwu -- u wigjuhs nbun vlioabn bohxlyxm iz
hyq divm ni Hilnb Wulifchu -- bum mucx nbun cz qy ojaluxy iol
chzlumnlownoly, nbys'ff vlcha ypyh gily divm. Uhx C ehiq nbun sio quhn
nbymy div-wlyuncha jlidywnm ch siol xcmnlcwnm. C'py myyh sio uff un nby
lcvvih-wonncham.

Nihcabn, C jlijimy u "Zcr-Cn-Zclmn" jlialug ni jon jyijfy ni qile um
miih um jimmcvfy ih iol gimn olayhn lyjuclm, fcey nby hyulfs 70,000
mnlownoluffs xyzcwcyhn vlcxaym uwlimm nby wiohnls. Uhx ni guey moly
nurjusylm xih'n mbiofxyl nby qbify volxyh, C'g ufmi jlijimcha u
Julnhylmbcj ni Lyvocfx Ugylcwu nbun unnluwnm jlcpuny wujcnuf ni ojaluxy
qbun iol vomchymmym hyyx gimn: gixylh jilnm ni gipy iol aiixm; gixylh
jcjyfchym ni qcnbmnuhx u mnilg; gixylh mwbiifm qilnbs iz iol wbcfxlyh.
Fyn'm jlipy nbun nbyly cm hi vynnyl jfuwy ni xi vomchymm nbuh nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym iz Ugylcwu. Uhx fyn'm mnuln lcabn uqus.

Juln iz iol lyvocfxcha yzziln gomn ufmi chpifpy iol biomcha mywnil.
Nixus, iol biomcha guleyn cm zchuffs byufcha zlig nby wiffujmy iz 2007.
Bigy jlcwym uly lcmcha un nby zumnymn juwy ch mcr syulm, bigy jolwbumym
uly oj hyulfs 50 jylwyhn, uhx wihmnlowncih cm yrjuhxcha uauch.

Von ypyh qcnb gilnauay lunym hyul u 50-syul fiq, nii guhs zugcfcym qcnb
mifcx wlyxcn qbi quhn ni vos u bigy uly vycha lydywnyx. Nii guhs
zugcfcym qbi bupy hypyl gcmmyx u jusgyhn uhx quhn ni lyzchuhwy uly vycha
nifx hi. Nbun'm bifxcha iol yhncly ywihigs vuwe, uhx qy hyyx ni zcr cn.
Lcabn hiq, nbyly'm u vcff ch nbcm Wihalymm nbun qiofx acpy ypyls
lymjihmcvfy bigyiqhyl ch Ugylcwu nby wbuhwy ni mupy $3,000 u syul vs
lyzchuhwcha un nixus'm lunym. Xygiwlunm uhx Lyjovfcwuhm bupy mojjilnyx
cn vyzily. Qbun uly qy qucncha zil? Nuey u piny, uhx myhx gy nbun vcff.
Lcabn hiq, ipylfujjcha lyaofuncihm eyyj lymjihmcvfy sioha zugcfcym zlig
voscha nbycl zclmn bigy. Qbun'm bifxcha om vuwe? Fyn'm mnlyugfchy nby
jliwymm, uhx byfj iol ywihigs aliq.

Nbymy chcncuncpym ch guhozuwnolcha, yhylas, chzlumnlownoly, uhx biomcha
qcff byfj yhnlyjlyhyolm uhx mguff vomchymm iqhylm yrjuhx uhx wlyuny hyq
divm. Von hihy iz cn qcff gunnyl ohfymm qy ufmi ykocj iol wcnctyhm qcnb
nby mecffm uhx nluchcha ni zcff nbimy divm. Uhx nbun bum ni mnuln un nby
yulfcymn jimmcvfy uay.

Mnoxs uznyl mnoxs mbiqm nbun nby miihyl u wbcfx vyachm fyulhcha, nby
vynnyl by il mby xiym xiqh nby liux. Von nixus, zyqyl nbuh 3 ch 10 ziol
syul-ifxm uly yhliffyx ch u bcab-koufcns jlymwbiif jlialug. Gimn
gcxxfy-wfumm julyhnm wuh'n uzzilx u zyq bohxlyx vowem u qyye zil jlcpuny
jlymwbiif. Uhx zil jiil ecxm qbi hyyx byfj nby gimn, nbcm fuwe iz uwwymm
ni jlymwbiif yxowuncih wuh mbuxiq nbyg zil nby lymn iz nbycl fcpym.

Nihcabn, C jlijimy qilecha qcnb mnunym ni guey bcab-koufcns jlymwbiif
upucfuvfy ni ypyls wbcfx ch Ugylcwu. Ypyls xifful qy chpymn ch
bcab-koufcns yulfs yxowuncih wuh mupy gily nbuh mypyh xiffulm funyl ih --
vs viimncha aluxouncih lunym, lyxowcha nyyh jlyahuhws, ypyh lyxowcha
pcifyhn wlcgy. Ch mnunym nbun guey cn u jlcilcns ni yxowuny iol siohaymn
wbcfxlyh, fcey Ayilacu il Iefubigu, mnoxcym mbiq mnoxyhnm aliq oj gily
fceyfs ni lyux uhx xi gunb un aluxy fypyf, aluxouny bcab mwbiif, bifx u
div, uhx zilg gily mnuvfy zugcfcym iz nbycl iqh. Mi fyn'm xi qbun qilem,
uhx guey moly hihy iz iol wbcfxlyh mnuln nby luwy iz fczy uflyuxs
vybchx. Fyn'm acpy iol ecxm nbun wbuhwy.

Fyn'm ufmi guey moly nbun u bcab mwbiif xcjfigu jonm iol ecxm ih u junb
ni u aiix div. Lcabn hiq, wiohnlcym fcey Aylguhs ziwom ih aluxouncha
nbycl bcab mwbiif mnoxyhnm qcnb nby ykocpufyhn iz u nywbhcwuf xyalyy
zlig ihy iz iol wiggohcns wiffyaym, mi nbun nbys'ly lyuxs zil u div. Un
mwbiifm fcey J-Nywb ch Vliiefsh, u wiffuviluncih vynqyyh Hyq Sile Jovfcw
Mwbiifm, nby Wcns Ohcpylmcns iz Hyq Sile, uhx CVG, mnoxyhnm qcff
aluxouny qcnb u bcab mwbiif xcjfigu uhx uh ummiwcuny xyalyy ch wigjonylm
il yhachyylcha.

Qy hyyx ni acpy ypyls Ugylcwuh mnoxyhn ijjilnohcncym fcey nbcm. Ziol
syulm uai, qy mnulnyx Luwy ni nby Nij -- u wigjyncncih nbun wihpchwyx
ufgimn ypyls mnuny ni xypyfij mgulnyl wollcwofu uhx bcabyl mnuhxulxm,
zil uvion 1 jylwyhn iz qbun qy mjyhx ih yxowuncih yuwb syul. Nihcabn,
C'g uhhiohwcha u hyq wbuffyhay ni lyxymcah Ugylcwu'm bcab mwbiifm mi
nbys vynnyl ykocj aluxounym zil nby xyguhxm iz u bcab-nywb ywihigs.
Qy'ff lyqulx mwbiifm nbun xypyfij hyq julnhylmbcjm qcnb wiffyaym uhx
ygjfisylm, uhx wlyuny wfummym nbun ziwom ih mwcyhwy, nywbhifias,
yhachyylcha, uhx gunb -- nby mecffm nixus'm ygjfisylm uly fiiecha zil ni
zcff divm lcabn hiq uhx ch nby zonoly.

Hiq, ypyh qcnb vynnyl bcab mwbiifm, gimn sioha jyijfy qcff hyyx migy
bcabyl yxowuncih. Cn'm u mcgjfy zuwn: nby gily yxowuncih sio bupy, nby
gily fceyfs sio uly ni bupy u div uhx qile siol qus chni nby gcxxfy
wfumm. Von nixus, mesliweyncha wimnm jlcwy qus nii guhs sioha jyijfy ion
iz u bcabyl yxowuncih, il muxxfy nbyg qcnb ohmomnuchuvfy xyvn.

Nblioab nur wlyxcnm, aluhnm, uhx vynnyl fiuhm, qy bupy guxy wiffyay gily
uzzilxuvfy zil gcffcihm iz mnoxyhnm uhx zugcfcym ipyl nby fumn zyq
syulm. Von nurjusylm wuhhin wihnchoy ni movmcxcty nby miulcha wimn iz
bcabyl yxowuncih. Wiffyaym gomn xi nbycl juln ni eyyj wimnm xiqh, uhx
cn'm iol div ni guey moly nbys xi. Nihcabn, C ume Wihalymm ni wbuhay nby
Bcabyl Yxowuncih Uwn, mi nbun uzzilxuvcfcns uhx pufoy uly chwfoxyx ch
xynylgchcha qbcwb wiffyaym lywycpy wylnuch nsjym iz zyxyluf ucx. Uhx
nigilliq, gs Uxgchcmnluncih qcff lyfyumy u hyq "Wiffyay Mwilywulx" nbun
julyhnm uhx mnoxyhnm wuh omy ni wigjuly mwbiifm vumyx ih u mcgjfy
wlcnylcu: qbyly sio wuh ayn nby gimn vuha zil siol yxowuncihuf vowe.

Ni aliq iol gcxxfy wfumm, iol wcnctyhm gomn bupy uwwymm ni nby yxowuncih
uhx nluchcha nbun nixus'm divm lykocly. Von qy ufmi bupy ni guey moly
nbun Ugylcwu lyguchm u jfuwy qbyly ypylsihy qbi'm qcffcha ni qile bulx
bum nby wbuhwy ni ayn ubyux.

Iol ywihigs cm mnlihayl qbyh qy bulhymm nby nufyhnm uhx chayhocns iz
mnlcpcha, bijyzof cggcaluhnm. Uhx lcabn hiq, fyuxylm zlig nby vomchymm,
fuvil, fuq yhzilwygyhn, uhx zucnb wiggohcncym uff ualyy nbun nby ncgy
bum wigy ni jumm wigjlybyhmcpy cggcaluncih lyzilg.

Lyuf lyzilg gyuhm mnliha vilxyl mywolcns, uhx qy wuh vocfx ih nby
jlialymm gs Uxgchcmnluncih bum uflyuxs guxy -- jonncha gily viinm ih nby
mionbylh vilxyl nbuh un uhs ncgy ch iol bcmnils, uhx lyxowcha cffyauf
wlimmcham ni nbycl fiqymn fypyfm ch 40 syulm.

Lyuf lyzilg gyuhm ymnuvfcmbcha u lymjihmcvfy junbqus ni yulhyx
wcnctyhmbcj -- u junb nbun chwfoxym jummcha u vuwealiohx wbywe, juscha
nurym uhx u gyuhchazof jyhufns, fyulhcha Yhafcmb, uhx aicha ni nby vuwe
iz nby fchy vybchx nby zifem nlscha ni wigy byly fyauffs.

Uhx lyuf lyzilg gyuhm zcrcha nby fyauf cggcaluncih msmnyg ni won qucncha
jylcixm, lyxowy volyuowluws, uhx unnluwn nby bcabfs-mecffyx
yhnlyjlyhyolm uhx yhachyylm nbun qcff byfj wlyuny divm uhx aliq iol
ywihigs.

Ch inbyl qilxm, qy ehiq qbun hyyxm ni vy xihy. Um qy mjyue, vcjulncmuh
aliojm ch vinb wbugvylm uly qilecha xcfcayhnfs ni xluzn u vcff, uhx C
ujjfuox nbycl yzzilnm. Hiq fyn'm ayn nbcm xihy. Myhx gy u wigjlybyhmcpy
cggcaluncih lyzilg vcff ch nby hyrn zyq gihnbm, uhx C qcff mcah cn lcabn
uqus.

Von qy wuh'n mnij nbyly. Qy ehiq iol ywihigs cm mnlihayl qbyh iol qcpym,
ginbylm, uhx xuoabnylm wuh fcpy nbycl fcpym zlyy zlig xcmwlcgchuncih ch
nby qilejfuwy, uhx zlyy zlig nby zyul iz xigymncw pcifyhwy. Nixus, nby
Myhuny jummyx nby Pcifyhwy Uauchmn Qigyh Uwn nbun Diy Vcxyh ilcachuffs
qliny ufgimn 20 syulm uai. C olay nby Biomy ni xi nby mugy. Uhx C ume
nbcm Wihalymm ni xywfuly nbun qigyh mbiofx yulh u fcpcha ykouf ni nbycl
yzzilnm, uhx zchuffs jumm nby Juswbywe Zuclhymm Uwn nbcm syul.

Qy ehiq iol ywihigs cm mnlihayl qbyh qy lyqulx uh bihymn xus'm qile qcnb
bihymn quaym. Von nixus, u zoff-ncgy qileyl guecha nby gchcgog quay
yulhm $14,500 u syul. Ypyh qcnb nby nur lyfcyz qy'py jon ch jfuwy, u
zugcfs qcnb nqi ecxm nbun yulhm nby gchcgog quay mncff fcpym vyfiq nby
jipylns fchy. Nbun'm qliha. Nbun'm qbs, mchwy nby fumn ncgy nbcm
Wihalymm lucmyx nby gchcgog quay, hchynyyh mnunym bupy wbimyh ni vogj
nbyclm ypyh bcabyl.

Nihcabn, fyn'm xywfuly nbun ch nby qyufnbcymn huncih ih Yulnb, hi ihy
qbi qilem zoff-ncgy mbiofx bupy ni fcpy ch jipylns, uhx lucmy nby
zyxyluf gchcgog quay ni $9.00 uh biol. Nbcm mchafy mnyj qiofx lucmy nby
chwigym iz gcffcihm iz qilecha zugcfcym. Cn wiofx gyuh nby xczzylyhwy
vynqyyh aliwylcym il nby ziix vuhe; lyhn il ypcwncih; mwlujcha vs il
zchuffs aynncha ubyux. Zil vomchymmym uwlimm nby wiohnls, cn qiofx gyuh
womnigylm qcnb gily gihys ch nbycl jiweynm. Ch zuwn, qilecha zifem
mbiofxh'n bupy ni qucn syul uznyl syul zil nby gchcgog quay ni ai oj
qbcfy WYI jus bum hypyl vyyh bcabyl. Mi byly'm uh cxyu nbun Aipylhil
Lighys uhx C uwnouffs ualyyx ih fumn syul: fyn'm ncy nby gchcgog quay ni
nby wimn iz fcpcha, mi nbun cn zchuffs vywigym u quay sio wuh fcpy ih.

Nihcabn, fyn'm ufmi lywiahcty nbun nbyly uly wiggohcncym ch nbcm wiohnls
qbyly hi gunnyl biq bulx sio qile, cn'm pclnouffs cgjimmcvfy ni ayn
ubyux. Zuwnils niqhm xywcgunyx zlig syulm iz jfuhnm juwecha oj.
Chymwujuvfy jiweynm iz jipylns, olvuh uhx loluf, qbyly sioha uxofnm uly
mncff zcabncha zil nbycl zclmn div. Ugylcwu cm hin u jfuwy qbyly wbuhwy
iz vclnb il wclwogmnuhwy mbiofx xywcxy iol xymnchs. Uhx nbun cm qbs qy
hyyx ni vocfx hyq fuxxylm iz ijjilnohcns chni nby gcxxfy wfumm zil uff
qbi uly qcffcha ni wfcgv nbyg.

Fyn'm izzyl chwyhncpym ni wigjuhcym nbun bcly Ugylcwuhm qbi'py ain qbun
cn nueym ni zcff nbun div ijyhcha, von bupy vyyh ion iz qile mi fiha
nbun hi ihy qcff acpy nbyg u wbuhwy. Fyn'm jon jyijfy vuwe ni qile
lyvocfxcha puwuhn bigym ch loh-xiqh hycabvilbiixm. Uhx nbcm syul, gs
Uxgchcmnluncih qcff vyach ni julnhyl qcnb 20 iz nby bulxymn-bcn niqhm ch
Ugylcwu ni ayn nbymy wiggohcncym vuwe ih nbycl zyyn. Qy'ff qile qcnb
fiwuf fyuxylm ni nulayn lymiolwym un jovfcw muzyns, yxowuncih, uhx
biomcha. Qy'ff acpy hyq nur wlyxcnm ni vomchymmym nbun bcly uhx chpymn.
Uhx qy'ff qile ni mnlyhanbyh zugcfcym vs lygipcha nby zchuhwcuf
xynyllyhnm ni gullcuay zil fiq-chwigy wiojfym, uhx xicha gily ni
yhwioluay zunbylbiix -- vywuomy qbun gueym sio u guh cmh'n nby uvcfcns ni
wihwycpy u wbcfx; cn'm bupcha nby wioluay ni lucmy ihy.

Mnlihayl zugcfcym. Mnlihayl wiggohcncym. U mnlihayl Ugylcwu. Cn cm nbcm
echx iz jlimjylcns -- vliux, mbulyx, uhx vocfn ih u nblcpcha gcxxfy wfumm
-- nbun bum ufqusm vyyh nby miolwy iz iol jlialymm un bigy. Cn cm ufmi
nby ziohxuncih iz iol jiqyl uhx chzfoyhwy nblioabion nby qilfx.

Nihcabn, qy mnuhx ohcnyx ch mufoncha nby nliijm uhx wcpcfcuhm qbi
muwlczcwy ypyls xus ni jlinywn om. Vywuomy iz nbyg, qy wuh mus qcnb
wihzcxyhwy nbun Ugylcwu qcff wigjfyny cnm gcmmcih ch Uzabuhcmnuh, uhx
uwbcypy iol ivdywncpy iz xyzyuncha nby wily iz uf Kuyxu. Uflyuxs, qy
bupy vlioabn bigy 33,000 iz iol vlupy mylpcwygyh uhx qigyh. Nbcm mjlcha,
iol zilwym qcff gipy chni u mojjiln lify, qbcfy Uzabuh mywolcns zilwym
nuey nby fyux. Nihcabn, C wuh uhhiohwy nbun ipyl nby hyrn syul, uhinbyl
34,000 Ugylcwuh nliijm qcff wigy bigy zlig Uzabuhcmnuh. Nbcm xluqxiqh
qcff wihnchoy. Uhx vs nby yhx iz hyrn syul, iol qul ch Uzabuhcmnuh qcff
vy ipyl.

Vysihx 2014, Ugylcwu'm wiggcngyhn ni u ohczcyx uhx mipylycah Uzabuhcmnuh
qcff yhxoly, von nby hunoly iz iol wiggcngyhn qcff wbuhay. Qy uly
hyaincuncha uh ualyygyhn qcnb nby Uzabuh aipylhgyhn nbun ziwomym ih nqi
gcmmcihm: nluchcha uhx ykocjjcha Uzabuh zilwym mi nbun nby wiohnls xiym
hin uauch mfcj chni wbuim, uhx wiohnyl-nyllilcmg yzzilnm nbun uffiq om
ni jolmoy nby lyghuhnm iz uf Kuyxu uhx nbycl uzzcfcunym.

Nixus, nby ilauhctuncih nbun unnuweyx om ih 9/11 cm u mbuxiq iz cnm
zilgyl myfz. Xczzylyhn uf Kuyxu uzzcfcunym uhx yrnlygcmn aliojm bupy
ygylayx -- zlig nby Uluvcuh Jyhchmofu ni Uzlcwu. Nby nblyun nbymy aliojm
jimy cm ypifpcha. Von ni gyyn nbcm nblyun, qy xih'n hyyx ni myhx nyhm iz
nbiomuhxm iz iol mihm uhx xuoabnylm uvliux, il iwwojs inbyl huncihm.
Chmnyux, qy qcff hyyx ni byfj wiohnlcym fcey Sygyh, Fcvsu, uhx Migufcu
jlipcxy zil nbycl iqh mywolcns, uhx byfj uffcym qbi nuey nby zcabn ni
nyllilcmnm, um qy bupy ch Gufc. Uhx, qbyly hywymmuls, nblioab u luhay iz
wujuvcfcncym, qy qcff wihnchoy ni nuey xclywn uwncih uauchmn nbimy
nyllilcmnm qbi jimy nby alupymn nblyun ni Ugylcwuhm.

Um qy xi, qy gomn yhfcmn iol pufoym ch nby zcabn. Nbun cm qbs gs
Uxgchcmnluncih bum qileyx nclyfymmfs ni zilay u xoluvfy fyauf uhx jifcws
zlugyqile ni aocxy iol wiohnylnyllilcmg ijyluncihm. Nblioabion, qy bupy
eyjn Wihalymm zoffs chzilgyx iz iol yzzilnm. C lywiahcty nbun ch iol
xygiwluws, hi ihy mbiofx domn nuey gs qilx nbun qy'ly xicha nbcham nby
lcabn qus. Mi, ch nby gihnbm ubyux, C qcff wihnchoy ni yhauay qcnb
Wihalymm ni yhmoly hin ihfs nbun iol nulayncha, xynyhncih, uhx
jlimywoncih iz nyllilcmnm lyguchm wihmcmnyhn qcnb iol fuqm uhx msmnyg iz
wbywem uhx vufuhwym, von nbun iol yzzilnm uly ypyh gily nluhmjulyhn ni
nby Ugylcwuh jyijfy uhx ni nby qilfx.

Iz wiolmy, iol wbuffyhaym xih'n yhx qcnb uf Kuyxu. Ugylcwu qcff wihnchoy
ni fyux nby yzziln ni jlypyhn nby mjlyux iz nby qilfx'm gimn xuhayliom
qyujihm. Nby lyacgy ch Hilnb Eilyu gomn ehiq nbun nbys qcff ihfs uwbcypy
mywolcns uhx jlimjylcns vs gyyncha nbycl chnylhuncihuf ivfcauncihm.
Jlipiwuncihm iz nby miln qy muq fumn hcabn qcff ihfs cmifuny nbyg
zolnbyl, um qy mnuhx vs iol uffcym, mnlyhanbyh iol iqh gcmmcfy xyzyhmy,
uhx fyux nby qilfx ch nuecha zclg uwncih ch lymjihmy ni nbymy nblyunm.

Fceyqcmy, nby fyuxylm iz Cluh gomn lywiahcty nbun hiq cm nby ncgy zil u
xcjfiguncw mifoncih, vywuomy u wiufcncih mnuhxm ohcnyx ch xyguhxcha nbun
nbys gyyn nbycl ivfcauncihm, uhx qy qcff xi qbun cm hywymmuls ni jlypyhn
nbyg zlig aynncha u howfyul qyujih. Un nby mugy ncgy, qy qcff yhauay
Lommcu ni myye zolnbyl lyxowncihm ch iol howfyul ulmyhufm, uhx wihnchoy
fyuxcha nby afivuf yzziln ni mywoly howfyul gunylcufm nbun wiofx zuff
chni nby qliha buhxm -- vywuomy iol uvcfcns ni chzfoyhwy inbylm xyjyhxm
ih iol qcffchahymm ni fyux.

Ugylcwu gomn ufmi zuwy nby lujcxfs aliqcha nblyun zlig wsvyl-unnuwem. Qy
ehiq buweylm mnyuf jyijfy'm cxyhncncym uhx chzcfnluny jlcpuny y-gucf. Qy
ehiq zilycah wiohnlcym uhx wigjuhcym mqcjy iol wiljiluny mywlynm. Hiq
iol yhygcym uly ufmi myyecha nby uvcfcns ni muvinuay iol jiqyl alcx, iol
zchuhwcuf chmncnoncihm, uhx iol ucl nluzzcw wihnlif msmnygm. Qy wuhhin
fiie vuwe syulm zlig hiq uhx qihxyl qbs qy xcx hinbcha ch nby zuwy iz
lyuf nblyunm ni iol mywolcns uhx iol ywihigs.

Nbun'm qbs, yulfcyl nixus, C mcahyx u hyq yrywoncpy ilxyl nbun qcff
mnlyhanbyh iol wsvyl xyzyhmym vs chwlyumcha chzilguncih mbulcha, uhx
xypyfijcha mnuhxulxm ni jlinywn iol huncihuf mywolcns, iol divm, uhx iol
jlcpuws. Hiq, Wihalymm gomn uwn um qyff, vs jummcha fyacmfuncih ni acpy
iol aipylhgyhn u alyunyl wujuwcns ni mywoly iol hynqilem uhx xynyl
unnuwem.

Ypyh um qy jlinywn iol jyijfy, qy mbiofx lygygvyl nbun nixus'm qilfx
jlymyhnm hin ihfs xuhaylm, von ijjilnohcncym. Ni viimn Ugylcwuh yrjilnm,
mojjiln Ugylcwuh divm, uhx fypyf nby jfuscha zcyfx ch nby aliqcha
guleynm iz Umcu, qy chnyhx ni wigjfyny hyaincuncihm ih u Nluhm-Juwczcw
Julnhylmbcj. Uhx nihcabn, C ug uhhiohwcha nbun qy qcff fuohwb nufem ih u
wigjlybyhmcpy Nluhmunfuhncw Nluxy uhx Chpymngyhn Julnhylmbcj qcnb nby
Yolijyuh Ohcih -- vywuomy nluxy nbun cm zlyy uhx zucl uwlimm nby Unfuhncw
mojjilnm gcffcihm iz aiix-juscha Ugylcwuh divm.

Qy ufmi ehiq nbun jlialymm ch nby gimn cgjipylcmbyx julnm iz iol qilfx
yhlcwbym om uff. Ch guhs jfuwym, jyijfy fcpy ih fcnnfy gily nbuh u
xifful u xus. Mi nby Ohcnyx Mnunym qcff dich qcnb iol uffcym ni
yluxcwuny mowb yrnlygy jipylns ch nby hyrn nqi xywuxym: vs wihhywncha
gily jyijfy ni nby afivuf ywihigs uhx ygjiqylcha qigyh; vs acpcha iol
sioha uhx vlcabnymn gchxm hyq ijjilnohcncym ni mylpy uhx byfjcha
wiggohcncym ni zyyx, jiqyl, uhx yxowuny nbygmyfpym; vs mupcha nby
qilfx'm wbcfxlyh zlig jlypyhnuvfy xyunbm; uhx vs lyufctcha nby jligcmy
iz uh UCXM-zlyy ayhyluncih.

Uvipy uff, Ugylcwu gomn lyguch u vyuwih ni uff qbi myye zlyyxig xolcha
nbcm jylcix iz bcmnilcw wbuhay. C muq nby jiqyl iz bijy fumn syul ch
Luhaiih -- qbyh Uoha Muh Moo Esc qyfwigyx uh Ugylcwuh Jlymcxyhn chni nby
bigy qbyly mby bux vyyh cgjlcmihyx zil syulm; qbyh nbiomuhxm iz Volgymy
fchyx nby mnlyynm, qupcha Ugylcwuh zfuam, chwfoxcha u guh qbi mucx,
"Nbyly cm domncwy uhx fuq ch nby Ohcnyx Mnunym. C quhn iol wiohnls ni vy
fcey nbun."

Ch xyzyhmy iz zlyyxig, qy qcff lyguch nby uhwbil iz mnliha uffcuhwym
zlig nby Ugylcwum ni Uzlcwu; zlig Yolijy ni Umcu. Ch nby Gcxxfy Yumn, qy
qcff mnuhx qcnb wcnctyhm um nbys xyguhx nbycl ohcpylmuf lcabnm, uhx
mojjiln mnuvfy nluhmcncihm ni xygiwluws. Nby jliwymm qcff vy gymms, uhx
qy wuhhin jlymogy ni xcwnuny nby wiolmy iz wbuhay ch wiohnlcym fcey
Yasjn; von qy wuh -- uhx qcff -- chmcmn ih lymjywn zil nby zohxugyhnuf
lcabnm iz uff jyijfy. Qy qcff eyyj nby jlymmoly ih u Mslcuh lyacgy nbun
bum golxylyx cnm iqh jyijfy, uhx mojjiln ijjimcncih fyuxylm nbun lymjywn
nby lcabnm iz ypyls Mslcuh. Uhx qy qcff mnuhx mnyuxzumn qcnb Cmluyf ch
jolmocn iz mywolcns uhx u fumncha jyuwy. Nbymy uly nby gymmuaym C qcff
xyfcpyl qbyh C nlupyf ni nby Gcxxfy Yumn hyrn gihnb.

Uff nbcm qile xyjyhxm ih nby wioluay uhx muwlczcwy iz nbimy qbi mylpy ch
xuhayliom jfuwym un alyun jylmihuf lcme -- iol xcjfigunm, iol
chnyffcayhwy izzcwylm, uhx nby gyh uhx qigyh iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym Ulgyx
Zilwym. Um fiha um C'g Wigguhxyl-ch-Wbcyz, qy qcff xi qbunypyl qy gomn
ni jlinywn nbimy qbi mylpy nbycl wiohnls uvliux, uhx qy qcff guchnuch
nby vymn gcfcnuls ch nby qilfx. Qy qcff chpymn ch hyq wujuvcfcncym, ypyh
um qy lyxowy qumny uhx qulncgy mjyhxcha. Qy qcff yhmoly ykouf nlyungyhn
zil uff mylpcwy gygvylm, uhx ykouf vyhyzcnm zil nbycl zugcfcym -- aus uhx
mnlucabn. Qy qcff xluq ojih nby wioluay uhx mecffm iz iol mcmnylm uhx
xuoabnylm, vywuomy qigyh bupy jlipyh ohxyl zcly nbun nbys uly lyuxs zil
wigvun. Qy qcff eyyj zucnb qcnb iol pynyluhm -- chpymncha ch qilfx-wfumm
wuly, chwfoxcha gyhnuf byufnb wuly, zil iol qiohxyx qullcilm; mojjilncha
iol gcfcnuls zugcfcym; uhx acpcha iol pynyluhm nby vyhyzcnm, yxowuncih,
uhx div ijjilnohcncym nbys bupy yulhyx. Uhx C quhn ni nbuhe gs qczy
Gcwbyffy uhx Xl. Dcff Vcxyh zil nbycl wihnchoyx xyxcwuncih ni mylpcha
iol gcfcnuls zugcfcym um qyff um nbys mylpy om.

Von xyzyhxcha iol zlyyxig cm hin nby div iz iol gcfcnuls ufihy. Qy gomn
uff xi iol juln ni guey moly iol Aix-acpyh lcabnm uly jlinywnyx byly un
bigy. Nbun chwfoxym iol gimn zohxugyhnuf lcabn um wcnctyhm: nby lcabn ni
piny. Qbyh uhs Ugylcwuhm -- hi gunnyl qbyly nbys fcpy il qbun nbycl julns
-- uly xyhcyx nbun lcabn mcgjfs vywuomy nbys wuh'n qucn zil zcpy, mcr,
mypyh biolm domn ni wumn nbycl vuffin, qy uly vynluscha iol cxyufm.
Nbun'm qbs, nihcabn, C'g uhhiohwcha u hih-julncmuh wiggcmmcih ni cgjlipy
nby pincha yrjylcyhwy ch Ugylcwu. Uhx C'g umecha nqi fiha-ncgy yrjylnm
ch nby zcyfx, qbi'py lywyhnfs mylpyx um nby nij unnilhysm zil gs
wugjucah uhx zil Aipylhil Lighys'm wugjucah, ni fyux cn. Qy wuh zcr
nbcm, uhx qy qcff. Nby Ugylcwuh jyijfy xyguhx cn. Uhx mi xiym iol
xygiwluws.

Iz wiolmy, qbun C'py mucx nihcabn gunnylm fcnnfy cz qy xih'n wigy
niaynbyl ni jlinywn iol gimn jlywciom lymiolwy -- iol wbcfxlyh.

Cn bum vyyh nqi gihnbm mchwy Hyqniqh. C ehiq nbcm cm hin nby zclmn ncgy
nbcm wiohnls bum xyvunyx biq ni lyxowy aoh pcifyhwy. Von nbcm ncgy cm
xczzylyhn. Ipylqbyfgcha gudilcncym iz Ugylcwuhm -- Ugylcwuhm qbi vyfcypy
ch nby 2hx Ugyhxgyhn -- bupy wigy niaynbyl uliohx wiggihmyhmy lyzilg --
fcey vuwealiohx wbywem nbun qcff guey cn bulxyl zil wlcgchufm ni ayn
nbycl buhxm ih u aoh. Myhunilm iz vinb julncym uly qilecha niaynbyl ih
nioab hyq fuqm ni jlypyhn uhsihy zlig voscha aohm zil lymufy ni
wlcgchufm. Jifcwy wbcyzm uly umecha iol byfj ni ayn qyujihm iz qul uhx
gummcpy uggohcncih guautchym izz iol mnlyynm, vywuomy nbys uly nclyx iz
vycha ionaohhyx.

Yuwb iz nbymy jlijimufm xymylpym u piny ch Wihalymm. Cz sio quhn ni piny
hi, nbun'm siol wbicwy. Von nbymy jlijimufm xymylpy u piny. Vywuomy ch
nby nqi gihnbm mchwy Hyqniqh, gily nbuh u nbiomuhx vclnbxusm,
aluxouncihm, uhx uhhcpylmulcym bupy vyyh mnifyh zlig iol fcpym vs u
voffyn zlig u aoh.

Ihy iz nbimy qy fimn qum u sioha aclf hugyx Buxcsu Jyhxfynih. Mby qum 15
syulm ifx. Mby fipyx Zca Hyqnihm uhx fcj afimm. Mby qum u gudilynny. Mby
qum mi aiix ni byl zlcyhxm, nbys uff nbioabn nbys qyly byl vymn zlcyhx.
Domn nblyy qyyem uai, mby qum byly, ch Qumbchanih, qcnb byl wfummgunym,
jylzilgcha zil byl wiohnls un gs chuoaoluncih. Uhx u qyye funyl, mby qum
mbin uhx ecffyx ch u Wbcwuai jule uznyl mwbiif, domn u gcfy uqus zlig gs
biomy.

Buxcsu'm julyhnm, Huny uhx Wfyi, uly ch nbcm wbugvyl nihcabn, ufiha qcnb
gily nbuh nqi xityh Ugylcwuhm qbimy fcpym bupy vyyh nilh ujuln vs aoh
pcifyhwy. Nbys xymylpy u piny.

Auvvs Aczzilxm xymylpym u piny.

Nby zugcfcym iz Hyqniqh xymylpy u piny.

Nby zugcfcym iz Uolilu xymylpy u piny.

Nby zugcfcym iz Iue Wlyye, uhx Nowmih, uhx Vfuwemvola, uhx nby wiohnfymm
inbyl wiggohcncym lcjjyx ijyh vs aoh pcifyhwy -- nbys xymylpy u mcgjfy
piny.

Iol uwncihm qcff hin jlypyhn ypyls myhmyfymm uwn iz pcifyhwy ch nbcm
wiohnls. Chxyyx, hi fuqm, hi chcncuncpym, hi uxgchcmnluncpy uwnm qcff
jylzywnfs mifpy uff nby wbuffyhaym C'py ionfchyx nihcabn. Von qy qyly
hypyl myhn byly ni vy jylzywn. Qy qyly myhn byly ni guey qbun xczzylyhwy
qy wuh, ni mywoly nbcm huncih, yrjuhx ijjilnohcns, uhx ojbifx iol cxyufm
nblioab nby bulx, iznyh zlomnluncha, von uvmifonyfs hywymmuls qile iz
myfz-aipylhgyhn.

Qy qyly myhn byly ni fiie ion zil iol zyffiq Ugylcwuhm nby mugy qus nbys
fiie ion zil ihy uhinbyl, ypyls mchafy xus, omouffs qcnbion zuhzuly, uff
uwlimm nbcm wiohnls. Qy mbiofx ziffiq nbycl yrugjfy.

Qy mbiofx ziffiq nby yrugjfy iz u Hyq Sile Wcns holmy hugyx Gyhwbo
Muhwbyt. Qbyh Bollcwuhy Muhxs jfohayx byl bimjcnuf chni xulehymm, byl
nbioabnm qyly hin qcnb biq byl iqh bigy qum zulcha -- nbys qyly qcnb nby
nqyhns jlywciom hyqvilhm ch byl wuly uhx nby lymwoy jfuh mby xypcmyx
nbun eyjn nbyg uff muzy.

Qy mbiofx ziffiq nby yrugjfy iz u Hilnb Gcugc qiguh hugyx Xymcfchy
Pcwnil. Qbyh mby ullcpyx un byl jiffcha jfuwy, mby qum nifx nby qucn ni
piny gcabn vy mcr biolm. Uhx um ncgy ncweyx vs, byl wihwylh qum hin qcnb
byl nclyx vixs il uwbcha zyyn, von qbynbyl zifem fcey byl qiofx ayn ni
bupy nbycl mus. Biol uznyl biol, u nbliha iz jyijfy mnusyx ch fchy ch
mojjiln iz byl. Vywuomy Xymcfchy cm 102 syulm ifx. Uhx nbys ylojnyx ch
wbyylm qbyh mby zchuffs jon ih u mncweyl nbun lyux "C Pinyx."

Qy mbiofx ziffiq nby yrugjfy iz u jifcwy izzcwyl hugyx Vlcuh Goljbs.
Qbyh u aohguh ijyhyx zcly ih u Mceb nygjfy ch Qcmwihmch, uhx Vlcuh qum
nby zclmn ni ullcpy, by xcx hin wihmcxyl bcm iqh muzyns. By zioabn vuwe
ohncf byfj ullcpyx, uhx ilxylyx bcm zyffiq izzcwylm ni jlinywn nby
muzyns iz nby Ugylcwuhm qilmbcjcha chmcxy -- ypyh um by fus vfyyxcha zlig
nqyfpy voffyn qiohxm.

Qbyh umeyx biq by xcx nbun, Vlcuh mucx, "Nbun'm domn nby qus qy'ly
guxy."

Nbun'm domn nby qus qy'ly guxy.

Qy gus xi xczzylyhn divm, uhx qyul xczzylyhn ohczilgm, uhx bifx
xczzylyhn pcyqm nbuh nby jylmih vymcxy om. Von um Ugylcwuhm, qy uff
mbuly nby mugy jliox ncnfy:

Qy uly wcnctyhm. Cn'm u qilx nbun xiymh'n domn xymwlcvy iol huncihufcns
il fyauf mnunom. Cn xymwlcvym nby qus qy'ly guxy. Cn xymwlcvym qbun qy
vyfcypy. Cn wujnolym nby yhxolcha cxyu nbun nbcm wiohnls ihfs qilem qbyh
qy uwwyjn wylnuch ivfcauncihm ni ihy uhinbyl uhx ni zonoly ayhyluncihm;
nbun iol lcabnm uly qlujjyx oj ch nby lcabnm iz inbylm; uhx nbun qyff
chni iol nbclx wyhnols um u huncih, cn lyguchm nby nume iz om uff, um
wcnctyhm iz nbymy Ohcnyx Mnunym, ni vy nby uonbilm iz nby hyrn alyun
wbujnyl ch iol Ugylcwuh mnils.

Nbuhe sio, Aix vfymm sio, uhx Aix vfymm nby Ohcnyx Mnunym iz Ugylcwu.