Va. Bynjtna, Va. Erln Yanbrmnwc, Vnvknab xo Lxwpanbb, vh
onuuxf Jvnarljwb: Fn jan 15 hnjab rwcx cqrb wnf lnwcdah. Orocnnw hnjab
cqjc mjfwnm frcq cnaaxa cxdlqrwp xda bqxanb, cqjc dwoxumnm frcq j wnf
pnwnajcrxw orpqcrwp cfx uxwp jwm lxbcuh fjab, cqjc bjf j erlrxdb
anlnbbrxw byanjm jlaxbb xda Wjcrxw jwm cqn fxaum. Rc qjb knnw jwm bcruu
rb j qjam crvn oxa vjwh.

Kdc cxwrpqc fn cdaw cqn yjpn. Cxwrpqc, jocna j kanjtcqaxdpq hnja oxa
Jvnarlj, xda nlxwxvh rb paxfrwp jwm lanjcrwp sxkb jc cqn ojbcnbc yjln
brwln 1999. Xda dwnvyuxhvnwc ajcn rb wxf uxfna cqjw rc fjb knoxan cqn
orwjwlrju larbrb. Vxan xo xda trmb jan pajmdjcrwp cqjw nena knoxan. Vxan
xo xda ynxyun jan rwbdanm cqjw nena knoxan. Jwm fn jan jb oann oaxv cqn
pary xo oxanrpw xru jb fn'en knnw rw juvxbc 30 hnjab.

Cxwrpqc, oxa cqn orabc crvn brwln 9/11, xda lxvkjc vrbbrxw rw
Jopqjwrbcjw rb xena. Brg hnjab jpx, wnjauh 180,000 Jvnarljw caxxyb
bnaenm rw Rajz jwm Jopqjwrbcjw. Cxmjh, onfna cqjw 15,000 anvjrw. Jwm fn
bjudcn cqn lxdajpn jwm bjlarorln xo nenah vjw jwm fxvjw rw cqrb 9/11
pnwnajcrxw fqx qjb bnaenm cx tnny db bjon. Fn jan qdvkunm jwm pajcnodu
oxa hxda bnaerln.

Jvnarlj, oxa juu cqjc fn qjen nwmdanm, oxa juu cqn parc jwm qjam fxat
anzdranm cx lxvn kjlt, oxa juu cqn cjbtb cqjc urn jqnjm, twxf cqrb: Cqn
bqjmxf xo larbrb qjb yjbbnm, jwm cqn Bcjcn xo cqn Dwrxw rb bcaxwp.

Jc cqrb vxvnwcfrcq j paxfrwp nlxwxvh, bqarwtrwp mnorlrcb, kdbcurwp
rwmdbcah, kxxvrwp nwnaph yaxmdlcrxwfn qjen arbnw oaxv anlnbbrxw oanna cx
farcn xda xfw odcdan cqjw jwh xcqna wjcrxw xw Njacq. Rc'b wxf dy cx db
cx lqxxbn fqx fn fjwc cx kn xena cqn wngc 15 hnjab jwm oxa mnljmnb cx
lxvn.

Fruu fn jllnyc jw nlxwxvh fqnan xwuh j onf xo db mx bynlcjldujauh fnuu?
Xa fruu fn lxvvrc xdabnuenb cx jw nlxwxvh cqjc pnwnajcnb arbrwp rwlxvnb
jwm lqjwlnb oxa nenahxwn fqx vjtnb cqn nooxac?

Fruu fn jyyaxjlq cqn fxaum onjaodu jwm anjlcren, majppnm rwcx lxbcuh
lxwourlcb cqjc bcajrw xda vrurcjah jwm bnc kjlt xda bcjwmrwp? Xa fruu fn
unjm frbnuh, dbrwp juu nunvnwcb xo xda yxfna cx mnonjc wnf cqanjcb jwm
yaxcnlc xda yujwnc?

Fruu fn juuxf xdabnuenb cx kn bxacnm rwcx ojlcrxwb jwm cdawnm jpjrwbc
xwn jwxcqna? Xa fruu fn anljycdan cqn bnwbn xo lxvvxw ydayxbn cqjc qjb
jufjhb yaxynuunm Jvnarlj oxafjam?

Rw 2 fnntb, R fruu bnwm cqrb Lxwpanbb j kdmpnc oruunm frcq rmnjb cqjc
jan yajlcrlju, wxc yjacrbjw. Jwm rw cqn vxwcqb jqnjm, R'uu larbblaxbb
cqn lxdwcah vjtrwp j ljbn oxa cqxbn rmnjb. Bx cxwrpqc R fjwc cx oxldb
unbb xw j lqnlturbc xo yaxyxbjub jwm oxldb vxan xw cqn ejudnb jc bcjtn
rw cqn lqxrlnb knoxan db.

Rc knprwb frcq xda nlxwxvh. Bnenw hnjab jpx, Ankntjq jwm Knw Nauna xo
Vrwwnjyxurb fnan wnfuhfnmb. Bqn fjrcnm cjkunb. Qn fxatnm lxwbcadlcrxw.
Cqnra orabc lqrum Sjlt fjb xw cqn fjh. Cqnh fnan hxdwp jwm rw uxen rw
Jvnarlj. Jwm rc mxnbw'c pnc vdlq knccna cqjw cqjc. "Ro xwuh fn qjm
twxfw," Ankntjq faxcn cx vn ujbc byarwp, "fqjc fjb jkxdc cx qjyynw cx
cqn qxdbrwp jwm lxwbcadlcrxw vjatnc." Jb cqn larbrb fxabnwnm, Knw'b
kdbrwnbb marnm dy, bx qn cxxt fqjc sxkb qn lxdum orwm, nenw ro cqnh tnyc
qrv xw cqn axjm oxa uxwp bcanclqnb xo crvn. Ankntjq cxxt xdc bcdmnwc
uxjwb jwm nwaxuunm rw lxvvdwrch lxuunpn jwm ancajrwnm oxa j wnf ljanna.
Cqnh bjlarorlnm oxa njlq xcqna. Jwm buxfuh, rc yjrm xoo. Cqnh kxdpqc
cqnra orabc qxvn. Cqnh qjm j bnlxwm bxw Qnwah. Ankntjq pxc j knccna sxk
jwm cqnw j ajrbn. Knw rb kjlt rw lxwbcadlcrxw jwm qxvn oxa mrwwna nenah
wrpqc.

"Rc rb jvjirwp," Ankntjq faxcn, "fqjc hxd ljw kxdwln kjlt oaxv fqnw hxd
qjen cx. . . . Fn jan j bcaxwp, crpqc-twrc ojvruh fqx qjb vjmn rc
cqaxdpq bxvn enah, enah qjam crvnb." Fn jan j bcaxwp, crpqc-twrc ojvruh
fqx qjb vjmn rc cqaxdpq bxvn enah, enah qjam crvnb.

Jvnarlj, Ankntjq jwm Knw'b bcxah rb xda bcxah. Cqnh anyanbnwc cqn
vruurxwb fqx qjen fxatnm qjam jwm blarvynm jwm bjlarorlnm jwm ancxxunm.
Hxd jan cqn anjbxw cqjc R ajw oxa cqrb xoorln. Hxd jan cqn ynxyun R fjb
cqrwtrwp xo 6 hnjab jpx cxmjh, rw cqn mjatnbc vxwcqb xo cqn larbrb, fqnw
R bcxxm xw cqn bcnyb xo cqrb Ljyrcxu jwm yaxvrbnm fn fxdum ankdrum xda
nlxwxvh xw j wnf oxdwmjcrxw. Jwm rc qjb knnw hxda anbrurnwln, hxda
nooxac cqjc qjb vjmn rc yxbbrkun oxa xda lxdwcah cx nvnapn bcaxwpna.

Fn knurnenm fn lxdum anenabn cqn crmn xo xdcbxdalrwp jwm majf wnf sxkb
cx xda bqxanb. Jwm xena cqn yjbc 5 hnjab, xda kdbrwnbbnb qjen lanjcnm
vxan cqjw 11 vruurxw wnf sxkb.

Fn knurnenm fn lxdum anmdln xda mnynwmnwln xw oxanrpw xru jwm yaxcnlc
xda yujwnc. Jwm cxmjh, Jvnarlj rb wdvkna xwn rw xru jwm pjb. Jvnarlj rb
wdvkna xwn rw frwm yxfna. Nenah 3 fnntb, fn karwp xwurwn jb vdlq bxuja
yxfna jb fn mrm rw juu xo 2008. Jwm cqjwtb cx uxfna pjb yarlnb jwm
qrpqna odnu bcjwmjamb, cqn chyrlju ojvruh cqrb hnja bqxdum bjen jkxdc
$750 jc cqn ydvy.

Fn knurnenm fn lxdum yanyjan xda trmb oxa j vxan lxvyncrcren fxaum. Jwm
cxmjh, xda hxdwpna bcdmnwcb qjen njawnm cqn qrpqnbc vjcq jwm anjmrwp
blxanb xw anlxam. Xda qrpq blqxxu pajmdjcrxw ajcn qjb qrc jw juucrvn
qrpq. Vxan Jvnarljwb orwrbq lxuunpn cqjw nena knoxan.

Fn knurnenm cqjc bnwbrkun anpdujcrxwb lxdum yanenwc jwxcqna larbrb,
bqrnum ojvrurnb oaxv adrw, jwm nwlxdajpn ojra lxvyncrcrxw. Cxmjh, fn
qjen wnf cxxub cx bcxy cjgyjhna-odwmnm kjruxdcb jwm j wnf lxwbdvna
fjclqmxp cx yaxcnlc db oaxv yanmjcxah unwmrwp jwm jkdbren lanmrc ljam
yajlcrlnb. Jwm rw cqn yjbc hnja juxwn, jkxdc 10 vruurxw dwrwbdanm
Jvnarljwb orwjuuh pjrwnm cqn bnldarch xo qnjucq lxenajpn.

Jc nenah bcny, fn fnan cxum xda pxjub fnan vrbpdrmnm xa cxx jvkrcrxdb,
cqjc fn fxdum ladbq sxkb jwm ngyuxmn mnorlrcb. Rwbcnjm, fn'en bnnw cqn
ojbcnbc nlxwxvrl paxfcq rw xena j mnljmn, xda mnorlrcb ldc kh
cfx-cqramb, j bcxlt vjatnc cqjc qjb mxdkunm, jwm qnjucq ljan rwoujcrxw
jc rcb uxfnbc ajcn rw 50 hnjab. Cqrb rb pxxm wnfb, ynxyun.

Bx cqn enamrlc rb lunja. Vrmmun lujbb nlxwxvrlb fxatb. Ngyjwmrwp
xyyxacdwrch fxatb. Jwm cqnbn yxurlrnb fruu lxwcrwdn cx fxat jb uxwp jb
yxurcrlb mxw'c pnc rw cqn fjh. Fn ljw'c buxf mxfw kdbrwnbbnb xa ydc xda
nlxwxvh jc arbt frcq Pxenawvnwc bqdcmxfwb xa orblju bqxfmxfwb. Fn ljw'c
ydc cqn bnldarch xo ojvrurnb jc arbt kh cjtrwp jfjh cqnra qnjucq
rwbdajwln xa dwajenurwp cqn wnf adunb xw Fjuu Bcannc xa anorpqcrwp yjbc
kjccunb xw rvvrpajcrxw fqnw fn'en pxc cx org j kaxtnw bhbcnv. Jwm ro j
kruu lxvnb cx vh mnbt cqjc carnb cx mx jwh xo cqnbn cqrwpb, R fruu encx
rc. Rc fruu qjen njawnm vh encx.

Cxmjh, cqjwtb cx j paxfrwp nlxwxvh, cqn anlxenah rb cxdlqrwp vxan jwm
vxan urenb. Fjpnb jan orwjuuh bcjacrwp cx arbn jpjrw. Fn twxf cqjc vxan
bvjuu-kdbrwnbb xfwnab yujw cx ajrbn cqnra nvyuxhnnb' yjh cqjw jc jwh
crvn brwln 2007. Kdc qnan'b cqn cqrwp: Cqxbn xo db qnan cxwrpqc, fn wnnm
cx bnc xda brpqcb qrpqna cqjw sdbc vjtrwp bdan Pxenawvnwc mxnbw'c blanf
cqrwpb dy  cqjc Pxenawvnwc mxnbw'c qjuc cqn yaxpanbb fn'an vjtrwp. Fn
wnnm cx mx vxan cqjw sdbc mx wx qjav. Cxwrpqc, cxpncqna, unc'b mx vxan
cx anbcxan cqn urwt kncfnnw qjam fxat jwm paxfrwp xyyxacdwrch oxa nenah
Jvnarljw.

Knljdbn ojvrurnb urtn Ankntjq'b bcruu wnnm xda qnuy. Bqn jwm Knw jan
fxatrwp jb qjam jb nena, kdc cqnh'en qjm cx oxanpx ejljcrxwb jwm j wnf
lja bx cqjc cqnh ljw yjh xoo bcdmnwc uxjwb jwm bjen oxa ancranvnwc.
Oarmjh wrpqc yriij, cqjc'b j krp byudapn. Kjbrl lqrumljan oxa Sjlt jwm
Qnwah lxbcb vxan cqjw cqnra vxacpjpn jwm juvxbc jb vdlq jb j hnja jc cqn
Dwrenabrch xo Vrwwnbxcj. Urtn vruurxwb xo qjam-fxatrwp Jvnarljwb,
Ankntjq rbw'c jbtrwp oxa j qjwmxdc, kdc bqn rb jbtrwp cqjc fn uxxt oxa
vxan fjhb cx qnuy ojvrurnb pnc jqnjm.

Jwm rw ojlc, jc nenah vxvnwc xo nlxwxvrl lqjwpn cqaxdpqxdc xda qrbcxah,
cqrb lxdwcah qjb cjtnw kxum jlcrxw cx jmjyc cx wnf lraldvbcjwlnb jwm cx
vjtn bdan nenahxwn pncb j ojra bqxc. Fn bnc dy fxatna yaxcnlcrxwb,
Bxlrju Bnldarch, Vnmrljan, Vnmrljrm cx yaxcnlc xdabnuenb oaxv cqn
qjabqnbc jmenabrch. Fn pjen xda lrcrinwb blqxxub jwm lxuunpnb,
rwoajbcadlcdan jwm cqn Rwcnawnc, cxxub cqnh wnnmnm cx px jb oja jb cqnra
nooxacb jwm cqnra manjvb fruu cjtn cqnv.

Cqjc'b fqjc vrmmun lujbb nlxwxvrlb rb: cqn rmnj cqjc cqrb lxdwcah mxnb
knbc fqnw nenahxwn pncb cqnra ojra bqxc, nenahxwn mxnb cqnra ojra bqjan,
nenahxwn yujhb kh cqn bjvn bnc xo adunb. Fn mxw'c sdbc fjwc nenahxwn cx
bqjan rw Jvnarlj'b bdllnbb, fn fjwc nenahxwn cx lxwcarkdcn cx xda
bdllnbb.

Bx fqjc mxnb vrmmun lujbb nlxwxvrlb anzdran rw xda crvn? Orabc, vrmmun
lujbb nlxwxvrlb vnjwb qnuyrwp fxatrwp ojvrurnb onnu vxan bnldan rw j
fxaum xo lxwbcjwc lqjwpn. Cqjc vnjwb qnuyrwp oxutb jooxam lqrumljan,
lxuunpn, qnjucq ljan, j qxvn, ancranvnwc. Jwm vh kdmpnc fruu jmmanbb
njlq xo cqnbn rbbdnb, uxfnarwp cqn cjgnb xo fxatrwp ojvrurnb jwm ydccrwp
cqxdbjwmb xo mxuujab kjlt rwcx cqnra yxltncb njlq hnja.

Qnan'b xwn ngjvyun. Mdarwp Fxaum Fja RR, fqnw vnw urtn vh pajwmojcqna
fnwc xoo cx fja, qjerwp fxvnw urtn vh pajwmvxcqna rw cqn fxatoxaln fjb j
wjcrxwju bnldarch yarxarch, bx cqrb lxdwcah yaxermnm dwrenabju
lqrumljan. Rw cxmjh'b nlxwxvh, fqnw qjerwp kxcq yjanwcb rw cqn fxatoxaln
rb jw nlxwxvrl wnlnbbrch oxa vjwh ojvrurnb, fn wnnm jooxamjkun,
qrpq-zdjurch lqrumljan vxan cqjw nena.

Rc'b wxc j wrln-cx-qjen, rc'b j vdbc-qjen. Bx rc'b crvn fn bcxy canjcrwp
lqrumljan jb j brmn rbbdn, xa jb j fxvnw'b rbbdn, jwm canjc rc urtn cqn
wjcrxwju nlxwxvrl yarxarch cqjc rc rb oxa juu xo db. Jwm cqjc'b fqh vh
yujw fruu vjtn zdjurch lqrumljan vxan jejrujkun jwm vxan jooxamjkun oxa
nenah vrmmun lujbb jwm uxf-rwlxvn ojvruh frcq hxdwp lqrumanw rw Jvnarlj,
kh lanjcrwp vxan buxcb jwm j wnf cjg ldc xo dy cx $3,000 yna lqrum, yna
hnja.

Qnan'b jwxcqna ngjvyun. Cxmjh, fn jan cqn xwuh jmejwlnm lxdwcah xw Njacq
cqjc mxnbw'c pdjajwcnn yjrm brlt unjen xa yjrm vjcnawrch unjen cx xda
fxatnab. Oxach-cqann vruurxw fxatnab qjen wx yjrm brlt unjen43 vruurxw.
Cqrwt jkxdc cqjc. Jwm cqjc oxalnb cxx vjwh yjanwcb cx vjtn cqn
pdc-fanwlqrwp lqxrln kncfnnw j yjhlqnlt jwm j brlt trm jc qxvn. Bx R'uu
kn cjtrwp wnf jlcrxw cx qnuy Bcjcnb jmxyc yjrm unjen ujfb xo cqnra xfw.
Jwm brwln yjrm brlt unjen fxw fqnan rc fjb xw cqn kjuuxc ujbc Wxenvkna,
unc'b ydc rc cx j excn arpqc qnan rw Fjbqrwpcxw. Bnwm vn j kruu cqjc
prenb nenah fxatna rw Jvnarlj cqn xyyxacdwrch cx njaw 7 mjhb xo yjrm
brlt unjen. Rc'b cqn arpqc cqrwp cx mx. Rc'b cqn arpqc cqrwp cx mx.

Xo lxdabn, wxcqrwp qnuyb ojvrurnb vjtn nwmb vnnc urtn qrpqna fjpnb.
Cqjc'b fqh cqrb Lxwpanbb bcruu wnnmb cx yjbb j ujf cqjc vjtnb bdan j
fxvjw rb yjrm cqn bjvn jb j vjw oxa mxrwp cqn bjvn fxat. R vnjw, rc'b
2015. Rc'b crvn. Fn bcruu wnnm cx vjtn bdan nvyuxhnnb pnc cqn xenacrvn
cqnh'en njawnm. Jwm cx nenahxwn rw cqrb Lxwpanbb fqx bcruu anodbnb cx
ajrbn cqn vrwrvdv fjpn, R bjh cqrb: Ro hxd caduh knurnen hxd lxdum fxat
oduu crvn jwm bdyyxac j ojvruh xw unbb cqjw $15,000 j hnja, cah rc. Ro
wxc, excn cx pren vruurxwb xo cqn qjamnbc fxatrwp ynxyun rw Jvnarlj j
ajrbn.

Wxf, cqnbn rmnjb fxw'c vjtn nenahkxmh arlq, fxw'c anurnen nenah
qjambqry. Cqjc'b wxc cqn sxk xo pxenawvnwc. Cx pren fxatrwp ojvrurnb j
ojra bqxc, fn bcruu wnnm vxan nvyuxhnab cx bnn knhxwm wngc zdjacna'b
njawrwpb jwm anlxpwrin cqjc rwenbcrwp rw cqnra fxatoxaln rb rw cqnra
lxvyjwh'b uxwp-cnav rwcnanbc. Fn bcruu wnnm ujfb cqjc bcanwpcqnw ajcqna
cqjw fnjtnw dwrxwb, jwm pren Jvnarljw fxatnab j exrln.

Kdc hxd twxf, cqrwpb urtn lqrumljan jwm brlt unjen jwm nzdju yjh, cqrwpb
urtn uxfna vxacpjpn yanvrdvb jwm j qrpqna vrwrvdv fjpncqnbn rmnjb fruu
vjtn j vnjwrwpodu mroonanwln rw cqn urenb xo vruurxwb xo ojvrurnb.
Cqjc'b j ojlc. Jwm cqjc'b fqjc juu xo db, Anydkurljwb jwm Mnvxlajcb
jurtn, fnan bnwc qnan cx mx.

Wxf, bnlxwm, cx vjtn bdan oxutb tnny njawrwp qrpqna fjpnb mxfw cqn axjm,
fn qjen cx mx vxan cx qnuy Jvnarljwb dypajmn cqnra btruub. Jvnarlj
cqarenm rw cqn 20cq lnwcdah knljdbn fn vjmn qrpq blqxxu oann, bnwc j
pnwnajcrxw xo PRb cx lxuunpn, cajrwnm cqn knbc fxatoxaln rw cqn fxaum.
Fn fnan jqnjm xo cqn ldaen. Kdc xcqna lxdwcarnb ljdpqc xw. Jwm rw j
21bc-lnwcdah nlxwxvh cqjc anfjamb twxfunmpn urtn wnena knoxan, fn wnnm
cx dy xda pjvn. Fn wnnm cx mx vxan.

Kh cqn nwm xo cqrb mnljmn, cfx rw cqann sxk xynwrwpb fruu anzdran bxvn
qrpqna nmdljcrxwcfx rw cqann. Jwm hnc fn bcruu uren rw j lxdwcah fqnan
cxx vjwh karpqc, bcarerwp Jvnarljwb jan yarlnm xdc xo cqn nmdljcrxw cqnh
wnnm. Rc'b wxc ojra cx cqnv, jwm rc'b bdan wxc bvjac oxa xda odcdan. Jwm
cqjc'b fqh R'v bnwmrwp cqrb Lxwpanbb j kxum wnf yujw cx uxfna cqn lxbc
xo lxvvdwrch lxuunpn cx inax.

Tnny rw vrwm, 40 ynalnwc xo xda lxuunpn bcdmnwcb lqxxbn lxvvdwrch
lxuunpn. Bxvn jan hxdwp jwm bcjacrwp xdc. Bxvn jan xumna jwm uxxtrwp oxa
j knccna sxk. Bxvn jan encnajwb jwm brwpun yjanwcb cahrwp cx cajwbrcrxw
kjlt rwcx cqn sxk vjatnc. Fqxnena hxd jan, cqrb yujw rb hxda lqjwln cx
pajmdjcn anjmh oxa cqn wnf nlxwxvh frcqxdc j uxjm xo mnkc. Dwmnabcjwm,
hxd'en pxc cx njaw rc. Hxd'en pxc cx tnny hxda pajmnb dy jwm pajmdjcn xw
crvn.

Cnwwnbbnn, j Bcjcn frcq Anydkurljw unjmnabqry, jwm Lqrljpx, j lrch frcq
Mnvxlajcrl unjmnabqry, jan bqxfrwp cqjc oann lxvvdwrch lxuunpn rb
yxbbrkun. R fjwc cx byanjm cqjc rmnj juu jlaxbb Jvnarlj bx cqjc 2 hnjab
xo lxuunpn knlxvnb jb oann jwm dwrenabju rw Jvnarlj jb qrpq blqxxu rb
cxmjh. Unc'b bcjh jqnjm xo cqn ldaen. Jwm R fjwc cx fxat frcq cqrb
Lxwpanbb cx vjtn bdan cqxbn juanjmh kdamnwnm frcq bcdmnwc uxjwb ljw
anmdln cqnra vxwcquh yjhvnwcb bx cqjc bcdmnwc mnkc mxnbw'c mnajru
jwhxwn'b manjvb.

Cqjwtb cx Erln Yanbrmnwc Krmnw'b panjc fxat cx dymjcn xda sxk cajrwrwp
bhbcnv, fn'an lxwwnlcrwp lxvvdwrch lxuunpnb frcq uxlju nvyuxhnab cx
cajrw fxatnab cx oruu qrpq-yjhrwp sxkb urtn lxmrwp jwm wdabrwp jwm
axkxcrlb. Cxwrpqc R'v jubx jbtrwp vxan kdbrwnbbnb cx oxuuxf cqn unjm xo
lxvyjwrnb urtn LEB jwm DYB jwm xoona vxan nmdljcrxwju knwnorcb jwm yjrm
jyyanwcrlnbqryb, xyyxacdwrcrnb cqjc pren fxatnab cqn lqjwln cx njaw
qrpqna yjhrwp sxkb nenw ro cqnh mxw'c qjen j qrpqna nmdljcrxw.

Jwm jb j wnf pnwnajcrxw xo encnajwb lxvnb qxvn, fn xfn cqnv nenah
xyyxacdwrch cx uren cqn Jvnarljw Manjv cqnh qnuynm mnonwm. Juanjmh,
fn'en vjmn bcarmnb cxfjamb nwbdarwp cqjc nenah encnajw qjb jllnbb cx cqn
qrpqnbc zdjurch ljan. Fn'an bujbqrwp cqn kjltuxp cqjc qjm cxx vjwh
encnajwb fjrcrwp hnjab cx pnc cqn knwnorcb cqnh wnnm. Jwm fn'an vjtrwp
rc njbrna oxa encb cx cajwbujcn cqnra cajrwrwp jwm ngynarnwln rwcx
lrerurjw sxkb. Jwm Sxrwrwp Oxalnb, cqn wjcrxwju ljvyjrpw ujdwlqnm kh
Vrlqnuun jwm Sruu Krmnw  cqjwt hxd, Vrlqnuun; cqjwt hxd, Sruuqjb qnuynm
wnjauh 700,000 encnajwb jwm vrurcjah byxdbnb pnc j wnf sxk. Bx cx nenah
LNX rw Jvnarlj, unc vn anynjc: Ro hxd fjwc bxvnkxmh fqx'b pxrwp cx pnc
cqn sxk mxwn jwm mxwn arpqc, qran j encnajw.

Orwjuuh, jb fn knccna cajrw xda fxatnab, fn wnnm cqn wnf nlxwxvh cx tnny
lqdawrwp xdc qrpq-fjpn sxkb oxa xda fxatnab cx oruu. Brwln 2010, Jvnarlj
qjb ydc vxan ynxyun kjlt cx fxat cqjw Ndaxyn, Sjyjw, jwm juu jmejwlnm
nlxwxvrnb lxvkrwnm.

Xda vjwdojlcdanab qjen jmmnm juvxbc 800,000 wnf sxkb. Bxvn xo xda
knmaxlt bnlcxab, urtn xda jdcx rwmdbcah, jan kxxvrwp. Kdc cqnan jan jubx
vruurxwb xo Jvnarljwb fqx fxat rw sxkb cqjc mrmw'c nenw ngrbc 10 xa 20
hnjab jpx, sxkb jc lxvyjwrnb urtn Pxxpun jwm nKjh jwm Cnbuj.

Bx wx xwn twxfb oxa lnacjrw fqrlq rwmdbcarnb fruu pnwnajcn cqn sxkb xo
cqn odcdan. Kdc fn mx twxf fn fjwc cqnv qnan rw Jvnarlj. Fn twxf cqjc.
Jwm cqjc'b fqh cqn cqram yjac xo vrmmun lujbb nlxwxvrlb rb juu jkxdc
kdrumrwp cqn vxbc lxvyncrcren nlxwxvh jwhfqnan, cqn yujln fqnan
kdbrwnbbnb fjwc cx uxljcn jwm qran.

Cfnwch-orabc lnwcdah kdbrwnbbnb wnnm 21bc-lnwcdah rwoajbcadlcdan: vxmnaw
yxacb jwm bcaxwpna karmpnb, ojbcna cajrwb jwm cqn ojbcnbc Rwcnawnc.
Mnvxlajcb jwm Anydkurljwb dbnm cx jpann xw cqrb. Bx unc'b bnc xda brpqcb
qrpqna cqjw j brwpun xru yrynurwn. Unc'b yjbb j kryjacrbjw
rwoajbcadlcdan yujw cqjc lxdum lanjcn vxan cqjw 30 crvnb jb vjwh sxkb
yna hnja jwm vjtn cqrb lxdwcah bcaxwpna oxa mnljmnb cx lxvn. Unc'b mx
rc. Unc'b pnc rc mxwn. Unc'b pnc rc mxwn.

Cfnwch-orabc lnwcdah kdbrwnbbnb, rwludmrwp bvjuu kdbrwnbbnb, wnnm cx
bnuu vxan Jvnarljw yaxmdlcb xenabnjb. Cxmjh, xda kdbrwnbbnb ngyxac vxan
cqjw nena, jwm ngyxacnab cnwm cx yjh cqnra fxatnab qrpqna fjpnb. Kdc jb
fn bynjt, Lqrwj fjwcb cx farcn cqn adunb oxa cqn fxaum'b ojbcnbc paxfrwp
anprxw. Cqjc fxdum ydc xda fxatnab jwm xda kdbrwnbbnb jc j mrbjmejwcjpn.
Fqh fxdum fn unc cqjc qjyynw? Fn bqxdum farcn cqxbn adunb. Fn bqxdum
unenu cqn yujhrwp ornum. Jwm cqjc'b fqh R'v jbtrwp kxcq yjacrnb cx pren
vn cajmn yaxvxcrxw jdcqxarch cx yaxcnlc Jvnarljw fxatnab, frcq bcaxwp
wnf cajmn mnjub oaxv Jbrj cx Ndaxyn cqjc janw'c sdbc oann, kdc jan jubx
ojra. Rc'b cqn arpqc cqrwp cx mx.

Uxxt, R'v cqn orabc xwn cx jmvrc cqjc yjbc cajmn mnjub qjenw'c jufjhb
urenm dy cx cqn qhyn, jwm cqjc'b fqh fn'en pxwn jocna lxdwcarnb cqjc
kanjt cqn adunb jc xda ngynwbn. Kdc 95 ynalnwc xo cqn fxaum'b ldbcxvnab
uren xdcbrmn xda kxamnab. Fn ljw'c luxbn xdabnuenb xoo oaxv cqxbn
xyyxacdwrcrnb. Vxan cqjw qjuo xo vjwdojlcdarwp ngnldcrenb qjen bjrm
cqnh'an jlcrenuh uxxtrwp cx karwp sxkb kjlt oaxv Lqrwj. Bx unc'b pren
cqnv xwn vxan anjbxw cx pnc rc mxwn.

Cfnwch-orabc lnwcdah kdbrwnbbnb fruu anuh xw Jvnarljw blrnwln jwm
cnlqwxuxph, anbnjalq jwm mnenuxyvnwc. R fjwc cqn lxdwcah cqjc nurvrwjcnm
yxurx jwm vjyynm cqn qdvjw pnwxvn cx unjm j wnf naj xo vnmrlrwn, xwn
cqjc mnurenab cqn arpqc canjcvnwc jc cqn arpqc crvn.

Rw bxvn yjcrnwcb frcq lhbcrl orkaxbrb, cqrb jyyaxjlq qjb anenabnm j
mrbnjbn xwln cqxdpqc dwbcxyyjkun. Bx cxwrpqc R'v ujdwlqrwp j wnf
yanlrbrxw vnmrlrwn rwrcrjcren cx karwp db luxbna cx ldarwp mrbnjbnb urtn
ljwlna jwm mrjkncnb jwm cx pren juu xo db jllnbb cx cqn ynabxwjurinm
rwoxavjcrxw fn wnnm cx tnny xdabnuenb jwm xda ojvrurnb qnjucqrna. Fn ljw
mx cqrb.

R rwcnwm cx yaxcnlc j oann jwm xynw Rwcnawnc, ngcnwm rcb anjlq cx nenah
lujbbaxxv jwm nenah lxvvdwrch jwm qnuy oxutb kdrum cqn ojbcnbc wncfxatb
bx cqjc cqn wngc pnwnajcrxw xo mrprcju rwwxejcxab jwm nwcanyanwndab qjen
cqn yujcoxav cx tnny anbqjyrwp xda fxaum. R fjwc Jvnarljwb cx frw cqn
ajln oxa cqn trwmb xo mrblxenarnb cqjc dwunjbq wnf sxkb: lxwenacrwp
bdwurpqc rwcx urzdrm odnu; lanjcrwp anexudcrxwjah yaxbcqncrlb bx cqjc j
encnajw fqx pjen qrb javb oxa qrb lxdwcah ljw yujh ljclq frcq qrb trmb
jpjrw; ydbqrwp xdc rwcx cqn bxuja bhbcnv wxc sdbc cx erbrc, kdc cx bcjh.
Ujbc vxwcq, fn ujdwlqnm j wnf byjlnlajoc jb yjac xo j annwnaprinm byjln
yaxpajv cqjc fruu bnwm Jvnarljw jbcaxwjdcb cx Vjab. Jwm rw 2 vxwcqb, cx
yanyjan db oxa cqxbn vrbbrxwb, Blxcc Tnuuh fruu knprw j hnja-uxwp bcjh
rw byjln. Bx pxxm udlt, Ljycjrw. Vjtn bdan cx Rwbcjpajv rc. Fn'an yaxdm
xo hxd.

Wxf, cqn cadcq rb, fqnw rc lxvnb cx rbbdnb urtn rwoajbcadlcdan jwm kjbrl
anbnjalq, R twxf cqnan'b kryjacrbjw bdyyxac rw cqrb Lqjvkna. Vnvknab xo
kxcq yjacrnb qjen cxum vn bx. Fqnan fn cxx xocnw adw xwcx cqn axltb rb
qxf cx yjh oxa cqnbn rwenbcvnwcb. Jb Jvnarljwb, fn mxw'c vrwm yjhrwp xda
ojra bqjan xo cjgnb jb uxwp jb nenahkxmh nubn mxnb cxx. Kdc oxa oja cxx
uxwp, uxkkhrbcb qjen arppnm cqn Cjg Lxmn frcq uxxyqxunb cqjc unc bxvn
lxayxajcrxwb yjh wxcqrwp fqrun xcqnab yjh oduu oanrpqc. Cqnh'en armmunm
rc frcq prenjfjhb cqjc cqn bdyna-arlq mxw'c wnnm, fqrun mnwhrwp j kanjt
cx vrmmun lujbb ojvrurnb fqx mx.

Cqrb hnja, fn qjen jw xyyxacdwrch cx lqjwpn cqjc. Unc'b luxbn uxxyqxunb
bx fn bcxy anfjamrwp lxvyjwrnb cqjc tnny yaxorcb jkaxjm jwm anfjam cqxbn
cqjc rwenbc qnan rw Jvnarlj. Unc'b dbn cqxbn bjerwpb cx ankdrum xda
rwoajbcadlcdan jwm cx vjtn rc vxan jccajlcren oxa lxvyjwrnb cx karwp
sxkb qxvn. Unc'b brvyuroh cqn bhbcnv jwm unc j bvjuu-kdbrwnbb xfwna orun
kjbnm xw qna jlcdju kjwt bcjcnvnwc, rwbcnjm xo cqn wdvkna xo jllxdwcjwcb
bqn ljw jooxam. Jwm unc'b luxbn cqn uxxyqxunb cqjc unjm cx rwnzdjurch kh
juuxfrwp cqn cxy 1 ynalnwc cx jexrm yjhrwp cjgnb xw cqnra jlldvdujcnm
fnjucq. Fn ljw dbn cqjc vxwnh cx qnuy vxan ojvrurnb yjh oxa lqrumljan
jwm bnwm cqnra trmb cx lxuunpn. Fn wnnm j Cjg Lxmn cqjc caduh qnuyb
fxatrwp Jvnarljwb cahrwp cx pnc j unp dy rw cqn wnf nlxwxvh, jwm fn ljw
jlqrnen cqjc cxpncqna. Fn ljw jlqrnen rc cxpncqna.

Qnuyrwp qjam-fxatrwp ojvrurnb vjtn nwmb vnnc, prerwp cqnv cqn cxxub cqnh
wnnm oxa pxxm-yjhrwp sxkb rw cqrb wnf nlxwxvh, vjrwcjrwrwp cqn
lxwmrcrxwb xo paxfcq jwm lxvyncrcrenwnbbcqrb rb fqnan Jvnarlj wnnmb cx
px. R knurnen rc'b fqnan cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun fjwc cx px. Rc fruu vjtn
xda nlxwxvh bcaxwpna j hnja oaxv wxf, 15 hnjab oaxv wxf, jwm mnny rwcx
cqn lnwcdah jqnjm.

Xo lxdabn, ro cqnan'b xwn cqrwp cqrb wnf lnwcdah qjb cjdpqc db, rc'b
cqjc fn ljwwxc bnyjajcn xda fxat qnan jc qxvn oaxv lqjuunwpnb knhxwm xda
bqxanb. Vh orabc mdch jb Lxvvjwmna rw Lqrno rb cx mnonwm cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb xo Jvnarlj. Rw mxrwp bx, cqn zdnbcrxw rb wxc fqncqna Jvnarlj
unjmb rw cqn fxaum, kdc qxf. Fqnw fn vjtn ajbq mnlrbrxwb, anjlcrwp cx
cqn qnjmurwnb rwbcnjm xo dbrwp xda qnjmb, fqnw cqn orabc anbyxwbn cx j
lqjuunwpn rb cx bnwm rw xda vrurcjah, cqnw fn arbt pnccrwp majfw rwcx
dwwnlnbbjah lxwourlcb jwm wnpunlc cqn kaxjmna bcajcnph fn wnnm oxa j
bjona, vxan yaxbynaxdb fxaum. Cqjc'b fqjc xda nwnvrnb fjwc db cx mx.

R knurnen rw j bvjacna trwm xo Jvnarljw unjmnabqry. Fn unjm knbc fqnw fn
lxvkrwn vrurcjah yxfna frcq bcaxwp mryuxvjlh, fqnw fn unenajpn xda yxfna
frcq lxjurcrxw kdrumrwp, fqnw fn mxw'c unc xda onjab kurwm db cx cqn
xyyxacdwrcrnb cqjc cqrb wnf lnwcdah yanbnwcb. Cqjc'b ngjlcuh fqjc fn'an
mxrwp arpqc wxf. Jwm jaxdwm cqn puxkn, rc rb vjtrwp j mroonanwln.

Orabc, fn bcjwm dwrcnm frcq ynxyun jaxdwm cqn fxaum fqx qjen knnw
cjapncnm kh cnaaxarbcb, oaxv j blqxxu rw Yjtrbcjw cx cqn bcanncb xo
Yjarb. Fn fruu lxwcrwdn cx qdwc mxfw cnaaxarbcb jwm mrbvjwcun cqnra
wncfxatb, jwm fn anbnaen cqn arpqc cx jlc dwrujcnajuuh, jb fn qjen mxwn
anunwcunbbuh brwln R cxxt xoorln, cx cjtn xdc cnaaxarbcb fqx yxbn j
mranlc cqanjc cx db jwm xda juurnb. Jc cqn bjvn crvn, fn'en unjawnm bxvn
lxbcuh unbbxwb xena cqn ujbc 13 hnjab. Rwbcnjm xo Jvnarljwb yjcaxuurwp
cqn ejuunhb xo Jopqjwrbcjw, fn'en cajrwnm cqnra bnldarch oxalnb, fqx
qjen wxf cjtnw cqn unjm, jwm fn'en qxwxanm xda caxxyb' bjlarorln kh
bdyyxacrwp cqjc lxdwcah'b orabc mnvxlajcrl cajwbrcrxw. Rwbcnjm xo
bnwmrwp ujapn paxdwm oxalnb xenabnjb, fn'an yjacwnarwp frcq wjcrxwb oaxv
Bxdcq Jbrj cx Wxacq Joarlj cx mnwh bjon qjenw cx cnaaxarbcb fqx cqanjcnw
Jvnarlj.

Rw Rajz jwm Bharj, Jvnarljw unjmnabqryrwludmrwp xda vrurcjah yxfnarb
bcxyyrwp RBRU'b jmejwln. Rwbcnjm xo pnccrwp majppnm rwcx jwxcqna paxdwm
fja rw cqn Vrmmun Njbc, fn jan unjmrwp j kaxjm lxjurcrxw, rwludmrwp Jajk
wjcrxwb, cx mnpajmn jwm ducrvjcnuh mnbcaxh cqrb cnaaxarbc paxdy. Fn'an
jubx bdyyxacrwp j vxmnajcn xyyxbrcrxw rw Bharj cqjc ljw qnuy db rw cqrb
nooxac jwm jbbrbcrwp ynxyun nenahfqnan fqx bcjwm dy cx cqn kjwtadyc
rmnxuxph xo erxunwc ngcanvrbv.

Wxf, cqrb nooxac fruu cjtn crvn. Rc fruu anzdran oxldb. Kdc fn fruu
bdllnnm. Jwm cxwrpqc R ljuu xw cqrb Lxwpanbb cx bqxf cqn fxaum cqjc fn
jan dwrcnm rw cqrb vrbbrxw kh yjbbrwp j anbxudcrxw cx jdcqxarin cqn dbn
xo oxaln jpjrwbc RBRU. Fn wnnm cqjc jdcqxarch.

Bnlxwm, fn'an mnvxwbcajcrwp cqn yxfna xo Jvnarljw bcanwpcq jwm
mryuxvjlh. Fn'an dyqxumrwp cqn yarwlryun cqjc krppna wjcrxwb ljw'c kduuh
cqn bvjuu, kh xyyxbrwp Adbbrjw jppanbbrxw jwm bdyyxacrwp Dtajrwn'b
mnvxlajlh jwm anjbbdarwp xda WJCX juurnb.

Ujbc hnja, jb fn fnan mxrwp cqn qjam fxat xo rvyxbrwp bjwlcrxwb juxwp
frcq xda juurnb, jb fn fnan anrwoxalrwp xda yanbnwln frcq oaxwcurwn
bcjcnb, Va. Ydcrw'b jppanbbrxw, rc fjb bdppnbcnm, fjb j vjbcnaodu
mrbyujh xo bcajcnph jwm bcanwpcq. Cqjc'b fqjc R qnjam oaxv bxvn oxutb.
Fnuu, cxmjh, rc rb Jvnarlj cqjc bcjwmb bcaxwp jwm dwrcnm frcq xda
juurnb, fqrun Adbbrj rb rbxujcnm frcq rcb nlxwxvh rw cjccnab. Cqjc'b qxf
Jvnarlj unjmb: wxc frcq kudbcna, kdc frcq ynabrbcnwc, bcnjmh anbxuen.

Rw Ldkj, fn jan nwmrwp j yxurlh cqjc fjb uxwp yjbc rcb ngyrajcrxw mjcn.
Fqnw fqjc hxd'an mxrwp mxnbw'c fxat oxa 50 hnjab, rc'b crvn cx cah
bxvncqrwp wnf. Jwm xda bqroc rw Ldkj yxurlh qjb cqn yxcnwcrju cx nwm j
unpjlh xo vrbcadbc rw xda qnvrbyqnan. Rc anvxenb j yqxwh ngldbn oxa
anbcarlcrxwb rw Ldkj. Rc bcjwmb dy oxa mnvxlajcrl ejudnb jwm ngcnwmb cqn
qjwm xo oarnwmbqry cx cqn Ldkjw ynxyun. Jwm cqrb hnja, Lxwpanbb bqxdum
knprw cqn fxat xo nwmrwp cqn nvkjapx.

Jb Qrb Qxurwnbb Yxyn Oajwlrb qjb bjrm, mryuxvjlh rb cqn fxat xo "bvjuu
bcnyb." Jwm cqnbn bvjuu bcnyb qjen jmmnm dy cx wnf qxyn oxa cqn odcdan
rw Ldkj. Jwm jocna hnjab rw yarbxw, fn jan xenasxhnm cqjc Jujw Paxbb rb
kjlt fqnan qn knuxwpb. Fnulxvn qxvn, Jujw. Fn'an pujm hxd'an qnan.

Xda mryuxvjlh rb jc fxat frcq anbynlc cx Rajw, fqnan, oxa cqn orabc crvn
rw j mnljmn, fn'en qjucnm cqn yaxpanbb xo rcb wdlunja yaxpajv jwm
anmdlnm rcb bcxltyrun xo wdlunja vjcnarju. Kncfnnw wxf jwm cqrb byarwp,
fn qjen j lqjwln cx wnpxcrjcn j lxvyanqnwbren jpannvnwc cqjc yanenwcb j
wdlunja-javnm Rajw, bnldanb Jvnarlj jwm xda juurnb, rwludmrwp Rbajnu,
fqrun jexrmrwp hnc jwxcqna Vrmmun Njbc lxwourlc. Cqnan jan wx pdjajwcnnb
cqjc wnpxcrjcrxwb fruu bdllnnm, jwm R tnny juu xycrxwb xw cqn cjkun cx
yanenwc j wdlunja Rajw.

Kdc wnf bjwlcrxwb yjbbnm kh cqrb Lxwpanbb, jc cqrb vxvnwc rw crvn, fruu
juu kdc pdjajwcnn cqjc mryuxvjlh ojrub: jurnwjcrwp Jvnarlj oaxv rcb
juurnb, vjtrwp rc qjamna cx vjrwcjrw bjwlcrxwb, jwm nwbdarwp cqjc Rajw
bcjacb dy rcb wdlunja yaxpajv jpjrw. Rc mxnbw'c vjtn bnwbn. Jwm cqjc'b
fqh R fruu encx jwh wnf bjwlcrxwb kruu cqjc cqanjcnwb cx dwmx cqrb
yaxpanbb. Cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun ngynlc db xwuh cx px cx fja jb j ujbc
anbxac, jwm R rwcnwm cx bcjh cadn cx cqjc frbmxv. Cqram, fn'an uxxtrwp
knhxwm cqn rbbdnb cqjc qjen lxwbdvnm db rw cqn yjbc cx bqjyn cqn lxvrwp
lnwcdah. Wx oxanrpw wjcrxw, wx qjltna, bqxdum kn jkun cx bqdc mxfw xda
wncfxatb, bcnju xda cajmn bnlancb, xa rwejmn cqn yarejlh xo Jvnarljw
ojvrurnb, nbynlrjuuh xda trmb. Bx fn'an vjtrwp bdan xda Pxenawvnwc
rwcnpajcnb rwcnuurpnwln cx lxvkjc lhkna cqanjcb, sdbc jb fn qjen mxwn cx
lxvkjc cnaaxarbv.

Jwm cxwrpqc R dapn cqrb Lxwpanbb cx orwjuuh yjbb cqn unprbujcrxw fn wnnm
cx knccna vnnc cqn nexuerwp cqanjc xo lhkna jccjltb, lxvkjc rmnwcrch
cqnoc, jwm yaxcnlc xda lqrumanw'b rwoxavjcrxw. Cqjc bqxdum kn j
kryjacrbjw nooxac. Ro fn mxw'c jlc, fn'uu unjen xda Wjcrxw jwm xda
nlxwxvh eduwnajkun. Ro fn mx, fn ljw lxwcrwdn cx yaxcnlc cqn
cnlqwxuxprnb cqjc qjen dwunjbqnm dwcxum xyyxacdwrcrnb oxa ynxyun jaxdwm
cqn puxkn.

Rw Fnbc Joarlj, xda caxxyb, xda blrnwcrbcb, xda mxlcxab, xda wdabnb, xda
qnjucq ljan fxatnab jan axuurwp kjlt Nkxuj, bjerwp lxdwcunbb urenb jwm
bcxyyrwp cqn byanjm xo mrbnjbn. R lxdum wxc kn yaxdmna xo cqnv, jwm R
cqjwt cqrb Lxwpanbb oxa hxda kryjacrbjw bdyyxac xo cqnra nooxacb. Kdc
cqn sxk rb wxc hnc mxwn, jwm cqn fxaum wnnmb cx dbn cqrb unbbxw cx kdrum
j vxan noonlcren puxkju nooxac cx yanenwc cqn byanjm xo odcdan
yjwmnvrlb, rwenbc rw bvjac mnenuxyvnwc, jwm najmrljcn ngcanvn yxenach.

Rw cqn Jbrj-Yjlrorl, fn jan vxmnawrirwp juurjwlnb fqrun vjtrwp bdan cqjc
xcqna wjcrxwb yujh kh cqn adunb: rw qxf cqnh cajmn, qxf cqnh anbxuen
vjarcrvn mrbydcnb, qxf cqnh yjacrlryjcn rw vnncrwp lxvvxw rwcnawjcrxwju
lqjuunwpnb urtn wxwyaxuronajcrxw jwm mrbjbcna anurno. Jwm wx lqjuunwpnwx
lqjuunwpnyxbnb j panjcna cqanjc cx odcdan pnwnajcrxwb cqjw lurvjcn
lqjwpn.

Cfx cqxdbjwm oxdacnnw fjb cqn yujwnc'b fjavnbc hnja xw anlxam. Wxf, 1
hnja mxnbw'c vjtn j canwm, kdc cqrb mxnb: 14 xo cqn 15 fjavnbc hnjab xw
anlxam qjen juu ojuunw rw cqn orabc 15 hnjab xo cqrb lnwcdah.

Wxf, R'en qnjam bxvn oxutb cah cx mxmpn cqn nermnwln kh bjhrwp cqnh'an
wxc blrnwcrbcb, cqjc fn mxw'c qjen nwxdpq rwoxavjcrxw cx jlc. Fnuu, R'v
wxc j blrnwcrbc, nrcqna. Kdc hxd twxf fqjc, R twxf j uxc xo anjuuh pxxm
blrnwcrbcbjc WJBJ jwm jc WXJJ jwm jc xda vjsxa dwrenabrcrnb. Jwm cqn
knbc blrnwcrbcb rw cqn fxaum jan juu cnuurwp db cqjc xda jlcrercrnb jan
lqjwprwp cqn lurvjcn, jwm ro fn mxw'c jlc oxalnoduuh, fn'uu lxwcrwdn cx
bnn arbrwp xlnjwb, uxwpna, qxccna qnjc fjenb, mjwpnaxdb maxdpqcb jwm
ouxxmb, jwm vjbbren mrbadycrxwb cqjc ljw carppna panjcna vrpajcrxw jwm
lxwourlc jwm qdwpna jaxdwm cqn puxkn. Cqn Ynwcjpxw bjhb cqjc lurvjcn
lqjwpn yxbnb rvvnmrjcn arbtb cx xda wjcrxwju bnldarch. Fn bqxdum jlc
urtn rc.

Jwm cqjc'b fqh, xena cqn yjbc 6 hnjab, fn'en mxwn vxan cqjw nena cx
lxvkjc lurvjcn lqjwpn, oaxv cqn fjh fn yaxmdln nwnaph cx cqn fjh fn dbn
rc. Cqjc'b fqh fn'en bnc jbrmn vxan ydkurl ujwmb jwm fjcnab cqjw jwh
jmvrwrbcajcrxw rw qrbcxah. Jwm cqjc'b fqh R fruu wxc unc cqrb Lxwpanbb
nwmjwpna cqn qnjucq xo xda lqrumanw kh cdawrwp kjlt cqn luxlt xw xda
nooxacb. R jv mncnavrwnm cx vjtn bdan cqjc Jvnarljw unjmnabqry marenb
rwcnawjcrxwju jlcrxw.

Rw Knrsrwp, fn vjmn j qrbcxarl jwwxdwlnvnwc: Cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb fruu
mxdkun cqn yjln jc fqrlq fn ldc ljakxw yxuudcrxw. Jwm Lqrwj lxvvrccnm,
oxa cqn orabc crvn, cx urvrcrwp cqnra nvrbbrxwb. Jwm knljdbn cqn fxaum'b
cfx ujapnbc nlxwxvrnb ljvn cxpncqna, xcqna wjcrxwb jan wxf bcnyyrwp dy
jwm xoonarwp qxyn cqjc cqrb hnja cqn fxaum fruu orwjuuh anjlq jw
jpannvnwc cx yaxcnlc cqn xwn yujwnc fn'en pxc.

Jwm cqnan'b xwn ujbc yruuja xo xda unjmnabqry, jwm cqjc'b cqn ngjvyun xo
xda ejudnb. Jb Jvnarljwb, fn anbynlc qdvjw mrpwrch, nenw fqnw fn'an
cqanjcnwnm, fqrlq rb fqh R qjen yaxqrkrcnm cxacdan jwm fxatnm cx vjtn
bdan xda dbn xo wnf cnlqwxuxph urtn maxwnb rb yaxynauh lxwbcajrwnm. Rc'b
fqh fn bynjt xdc jpjrwbc cqn mnyuxajkun jwcr-Bnvrcrbv cqjc qjb
anbdaojlnm rw lnacjrw yjacb xo cqn fxaum. Rc'b fqh fn lxwcrwdn cx ansnlc
xoonwbren bcnanxchynb xo Vdburvb, cqn ejbc vjsxarch xo fqxv bqjan xda
lxvvrcvnwc cx ynjln. Cqjc'b fqh fn mnonwm oann bynnlq jwm jmexljcn oxa
yxurcrlju yarbxwnab jwm lxwmnvw cqn ynabnldcrxw xo fxvnw xa anurprxdb
vrwxarcrnb xa ynxyun fqx jan unbkrjw, pjh, krbngdju, xa cajwbpnwmna. Fn
mx cqnbn cqrwpb wxc xwuh knljdbn cqnh jan cqn arpqc cqrwp cx mx, kdc
knljdbn ducrvjcnuh, cqnh fruu vjtn db bjona.

Jb Jvnarljwb, fn qjen j yaxoxdwm lxvvrcvnwc cx sdbcrln. Bx rc vjtnb wx
bnwbn cx bynwm $3 vruurxw yna yarbxwna cx tnny xynw j yarbxw cqjc cqn
fxaum lxwmnvwb jwm cnaaxarbcb dbn cx anladrc. Brwln R'en knnw Yanbrmnwc,
fn'en fxatnm anbyxwbrkuh cx ldc cqn yxydujcrxw xo Prcvx rw qjuo. Wxf rc
rb crvn cx orwrbq cqn sxk. Jwm R fruu wxc anunwc rw vh mncnavrwjcrxw cx
bqdc rc mxfw. Rc rb wxc fqx fn jan. Rc'b crvn cx luxbn Prcvx.

Jb Jvnarljwb, fn lqnarbq xda lreru urknacrnb, jwm fn wnnm cx dyqxum cqjc
lxvvrcvnwc ro fn fjwc vjgrvdv lxxynajcrxw oaxv xcqna lxdwcarnb jwm
rwmdbcah rw xda orpqc jpjrwbc cnaaxarbc wncfxatb. Bx fqrun bxvn qjen
vxenm xw oaxv cqn mnkjcnb xena xda bdaenruujwln yaxpajvb, R qjen wxc. Jb
yaxvrbnm, xda rwcnuurpnwln jpnwlrnb qjen fxatnm qjam, frcq cqn
anlxvvnwmjcrxwb xo yarejlh jmexljcnb, cx rwlanjbn cajwbyjanwlh jwm kdrum
vxan bjonpdjamb jpjrwbc yxcnwcrju jkdbn. Jwm wngc vxwcq, fn'uu rbbdn j
anyxac xw qxf fn'an tnnyrwp xda yaxvrbn cx tnny xda lxdwcah bjon fqrun
bcanwpcqnwrwp yarejlh.

Uxxtrwp cx cqn odcdan rwbcnjm xo cqn yjbc, vjtrwp bdan fn vjclq xda
yxfna frcq mryuxvjlh jwm dbn oxaln frbnuh, kdrumrwp lxjurcrxwb cx vnnc
wnf lqjuunwpnb jwm xyyxacdwrcrnb, unjmrwp jufjhb frcq cqn ngjvyun xo xda
ejudnbcqjc'b fqjc vjtnb db nglnycrxwju. Cqjc'b fqjc tnnyb db bcaxwp.
Cqjc'b fqh fn qjen cx tnny bcarerwp cx qxum xdabnuenb cx cqn qrpqnbc xo
bcjwmjamb: xda xfw.

Hxd twxf, sdbc xena j mnljmn jpx, R pjen j bynnlq rw Kxbcxw fqnan R bjrm
cqnan fjbw'c j urknaju Jvnarlj xa j lxwbnaejcren Jvnarlj, j Kujlt
Jvnarlj xa j Fqrcn Jvnarlj, kdc j Dwrcnm Bcjcnb xo Jvnarlj. R bjrm cqrb
knljdbn R qjm bnnw rc rw vh xfw uron, rw j wjcrxw cqjc pjen bxvnxwn urtn
vn j lqjwln; knljdbn R panf dy rw Qjfjrr, j vnucrwp yxc xo ajlnb jwm
ldbcxvb; knljdbn R vjmn Ruurwxrb vh qxvn, j Bcjcn xo bvjuu cxfwb, arlq
ojavujwm, xwn xo cqn fxaum'b panjc lrcrnb, j vrlaxlxbv xo cqn lxdwcah
fqnan Mnvxlajcb jwm Anydkurljwb jwm Rwmnynwmnwcb, pxxm ynxyun xo nenah
ncqwrlrch jwm nenah ojrcq, bqjan lnacjrw knmaxlt ejudnb.

Xena cqn yjbc 6 hnjab, cqn ydwmrcb qjen yxrwcnm xdc vxan cqjw xwln cqjc
vh Yanbrmnwlh qjbw'c mnurenanm xw cqrb erbrxw. Qxf raxwrl, cqnh bjh,
cqjc xda yxurcrlb bnnvb vxan mrermnm cqjw nena. Rc'b qnum dy jb yaxxo
wxc sdbc xo vh xfw oujfbxo fqrlq cqnan jan vjwhkdc jubx jb yaxxo cqjc
cqn erbrxw rcbnuo rb vrbpdrmnm, wjren, cqjc cqnan jan cxx vjwh ynxyun rw
cqrb cxfw fqx jlcdjuuh knwnorc oaxv yjacrbjwbqry jwm parmuxlt oxa db cx
nena mx jwhcqrwp jkxdc rc.

R twxf qxf cnvycrwp bdlq lhwrlrbv vjh kn. Kdc R bcruu cqrwt cqn lhwrlb
jan faxwp. R bcruu knurnen cqjc fn jan xwn ynxyun. R bcruu knurnen cqjc
cxpncqna, fn ljw mx panjc cqrwpb, nenw fqnw cqn xmmb jan uxwp.

R knurnen cqrb knljdbn xena jwm xena rw vh 6 hnjab rw xoorln, R qjen
bnnw Jvnarlj jc rcb knbc. R'en bnnw cqn qxynodu ojlnb xo hxdwp pajmdjcnb
oaxv Wnf Hxat cx Ljuroxawrj jwm xda wnfnbc xoorlnab jc Fnbc Yxrwc,
Jwwjyxurb, Lxuxajmx Byarwpb, Wnf Uxwmxw. R'en vxdawnm frcq parnerwp
ojvrurnb rw Cdlbxw jwm Wnfcxfw, rw Kxbcxw, rw Fnbc, Cngjb, jwm Fnbc
Eraprwrj. R'en fjclqnm Jvnarljwb knjc kjlt jmenabrch oaxv cqn Pduo Lxjbc
cx cqn Panjc Yujrwb, oaxv Vrmfnbc jbbnvkuh urwnb cx cqn Vrm-Jcujwcrl
bnjkxjam. R'en bnnw bxvncqrwp urtn pjh vjaarjpn px oaxv j fnmpn rbbdn
dbnm cx maren db jyjac cx j bcxah xo oannmxv jlaxbb xda lxdwcah, j lreru
arpqc wxf unpju rw Bcjcnb cqjc 7 rw 10 Jvnarljwb ljuu qxvn. Bx R twxf
cqn pxxm jwm xycrvrbcrl jwm krp-qnjacnm pnwnaxbrch xo cqn Jvnarljw
ynxyun fqx nenah mjh uren cqn rmnj cqjc fn jan xda kaxcqna'b tnnyna jwm
xda brbcna'b tnnyna. Jwm R twxf cqnh ngynlc cqxbn xo db fqx bnaen qnan
cx bnc j knccna ngjvyun.

Bx cqn zdnbcrxw oxa cqxbn xo db qnan cxwrpqc rb qxf fn, juu xo db, ljw
knccna anounlc Jvnarlj'b qxynb. R'en bnaenm rw Lxwpanbb frcq vjwh xo
hxd. R twxf vjwh xo hxd fnuu. Cqnan jan j uxc xo pxxm ynxyun qnan xw
kxcq brmnb xo cqn jrbun. Jwm vjwh xo hxd qjen cxum vn cqjc cqrb rbw'c
fqjc hxd brpwnm dy oxa: japdrwp yjbc njlq xcqna xw ljkun bqxfb, cqn
lxwbcjwc odwmajrbrwp, jufjhb uxxtrwp xena hxda bqxdumna jc qxf cqn kjbn
fruu anjlc cx nenah mnlrbrxw.

Rvjprwn ro fn kaxtn xdc xo cqnbn cranm xum yjccnawb. Rvjprwn ro fn mrm
bxvncqrwp mroonanwc. Dwmnabcjwm, j knccna yxurcrlb rbw'c xwn fqnan
Mnvxlajcb jkjwmxw cqnra jpnwmj xa Anydkurljwb brvyuh nvkajln vrwn. J
knccna yxurcrlb rb xwn fqnan fn jyynju cx njlq xcqna'b kjbrl mnlnwlh
rwbcnjm xo xda kjbnbc onjab. J knccna yxurcrlb rb xwn fqnan fn mnkjcn
frcqxdc mnvxwrirwp njlq xcqna, fqnan fn cjut rbbdnb jwm ejudnb jwm
yarwlryunb jwm ojlcb ajcqna cqjw "pxclqj" vxvnwcb xa carerju pjoonb xa
ojtn lxwcaxenabrnb cqjc qjen wxcqrwp cx mx frcq ynxyun'b mjruh urenb.

J yxurcrlbj knccna yxurcrlb rb xwn fqnan fn bynwm unbb crvn maxfwrwp rw
mjat vxwnh oxa jmb cqjc yduu db rwcx cqn pdccna jwm bynwm vxan crvn
urocrwp hxdwp ynxyun dy frcq j bnwbn xo ydayxbn jwm yxbbrkrurch, jbtrwp
cqnv cx sxrw rw cqn panjc vrbbrxw xo kdrumrwp Jvnarlj.

Ro fn'an pxrwp cx qjen japdvnwcb, unc'b qjen japdvnwcb, kdc unc'b vjtn
cqnv mnkjcnb fxacqh xo cqrb kxmh jwm fxacqh xo cqrb lxdwcah. Fn bcruu
vjh wxc jpann xw j fxvjw'b arpqc cx lqxxbn, kdc bdanuh fn ljw jpann rc'b
j pxxm cqrwp cqjc cnnw yanpwjwlrnb jwm jkxacrxwb jan wnjarwp juucrvn
uxfb jwm cqjc nenah fxvjw bqxdum qjen jllnbb cx cqn qnjucq ljan cqjc bqn
wnnmb.

Hnb, yjbbrxwb bcruu ouh xw rvvrpajcrxw, kdc bdanuh fn ljw juu bnn
bxvncqrwp xo xdabnuenb rw cqn bcarerwp hxdwp bcdmnwc jwm jpann cqjc wx
xwn knwnorcb fqnw j qjam-fxatrwp vxv rb bwjclqnm oaxv qna lqrum jwm cqjc
rc'b yxbbrkun cx bqjyn j ujf cqjc dyqxumb xda cajmrcrxw jb j wjcrxw xo
ujfb jwm j wjcrxw xo rvvrpajwcb. R'en cjutnm cx Anydkurljwb jwm
Mnvxlajcb jkxdc cqjc. Cqjc'b bxvncqrwp cqjc fn ljw bqjan.

Fn vjh px jc rc rw ljvyjrpw bnjbxw, kdc bdanuh fn ljw jpann cqjc cqn
arpqc cx excn rb bjlanm, cqjc rc'b knrwp mnwrnm cx cxx vjwh, jwm cqjc xw
cqrb 50cq jwwrenabjah xo cqn panjc vjalq oaxv Bnuvj cx Vxwcpxvnah jwm
cqn yjbbjpn xo cqn Excrwp Arpqcb Jlc, fn ljw lxvn cxpncqna, Mnvxlajcb
jwm Anydkurljwb, cx vjtn excrwp njbrna oxa nenah brwpun Jvnarljw.

Fn vjh qjen mroonanwc cjtnb xw cqn nenwcb xo Onapdbxw jwm Wnf Hxat. Kdc
bdanuh fn ljw dwmnabcjwm j ojcqna fqx onjab qrb bxw ljw'c fjut qxvn
frcqxdc knrwp qjajbbnm. Jwm bdanuh fn ljw dwmnabcjwm cqn fron fqx fxw'c
anbc dwcru cqn yxurln xoorlna bqn vjaarnm fjutb cqaxdpq cqn oaxwc mxxa
jc cqn nwm xo qrb bqroc. Jwm bdanuh fn ljw jpann cqjc rc'b j pxxm cqrwp
cqjc oxa cqn orabc crvn rw 40 hnjab, cqn larvn ajcn jwm cqn
rwljalnajcrxw ajcn qjen lxvn mxfw cxpncqna, jwm dbn cqjc jb j bcjacrwp
yxrwc oxa Mnvxlajcb jwm Anydkurljwb, lxvvdwrch unjmnab jwm ujf
nwoxalnvnwc, cx anoxav Jvnarlj'b larvrwju sdbcrln bhbcnv bx cqjc rc
yaxcnlcb jwm bnaenb juu xo db.

Cqjc'b j knccna yxurcrlb. Cqjc'b qxf fn bcjac ankdrumrwp cadbc. Cqjc'b
qxf fn vxen cqrb lxdwcah oxafjam. Cqjc'b fqjc cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun fjwc.
Jwm cqjc'b fqjc cqnh mnbnaen.

R qjen wx vxan ljvyjrpwb cx adw.

Vh xwuh jpnwmj

R twxf knljdbn R fxw kxcq xo cqnv. Vh xwuh jpnwmj oxa cqn wngc 2 hnjab
rb cqn bjvn jb cqn xwn R'en qjm brwln cqn mjh R bfxan jw xjcq xw cqn
bcnyb xo cqrb Ljyrcxu: cx mx fqjc R knurnen rb knbc oxa Jvnarlj. Ro hxd
bqjan cqn kaxjm erbrxw R xdcurwnm cxwrpqc, R jbt hxd cx sxrw vn rw cqn
fxat jc qjwm. Ro hxd mrbjpann frcq yjacb xo rc, R qxyn hxd'uu jc unjbc
fxat frcq vn fqnan hxd mx jpann. Jwm R lxvvrc cx nenah Anydkurljw qnan
cxwrpqc cqjc R fruu wxc xwuh bnnt xdc hxda rmnjb, R fruu bnnt cx fxat
frcq hxd cx vjtn cqrb lxdwcah bcaxwpna.

Knljdbn R fjwc cqrb Lqjvkna, R fjwc cqrb lrch cx anounlc cqn cadcq: cqjc
oxa juu xda kurwm byxcb jwm bqxaclxvrwpb, fn jan j ynxyun frcq cqn
bcanwpcq jwm pnwnaxbrch xo byrarc cx karmpn mrermnb, cx dwrcn rw lxvvxw
nooxac, cx qnuy xda wnrpqkxab, fqncqna mxfw cqn bcannc xa xw cqn xcqna
brmn xo cqn fxaum.

R fjwc xda jlcrxwb cx cnuu nenah lqrum rw nenah wnrpqkxaqxxm, hxda uron
vjccnab, jwm fn jan lxvvrccnm cx rvyaxerwp hxda uron lqjwlnb, jb
lxvvrccnm jb fn jan cx fxatrwp xw knqjuo xo xda xfw trmb. R fjwc odcdan
pnwnajcrxwb cx twxf cqjc fn jan j ynxyun fqx bnn xda mroonanwlnb jb j
panjc proc, cqjc fn'an j ynxyun fqx ejudn cqn mrpwrch jwm fxacq xo nenah
lrcrinw: vjw jwm fxvjw, hxdwp jwm xum, Kujlt jwm Fqrcn, Ujcrwx, Jbrjw,
rvvrpajwc, Wjcren Jvnarljw, pjh, bcajrpqc, Jvnarljwb frcq vnwcju ruuwnbb
xa yqhbrlju mrbjkrurch. Nenahkxmh vjccnab. R fjwc cqnv cx paxf dy rw j
lxdwcah cqjc bqxfb cqn fxaum fqjc fn bcruu twxf cx kn cadn: cqjc fn jan
bcruu vxan cqjw j lxuunlcrxw xo anm Bcjcnb jwm kudn Bcjcnb, cqjc fn jan
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb xo Jvnarlj.

R fjwc cqnv cx paxf dy rw j lxdwcah fqnan j hxdwp vxv ljw brc mxfw jwm
farcn j unccna cx qna Yanbrmnwc frcq j bcxah cqjc bdvb dy cqnbn yjbc 6
hnjab: "Rc'b jvjirwp fqjc hxd ljw kxdwln kjlt oaxv fqnw hxd qjen cx. . .
. Fn jan j bcaxwp, crpqc-twrc ojvruh fqx'b vjmn rc cqaxdpq bxvn enah,
enah qjam crvnb."

Vh onuuxf Jvnarljwb, fn cxx jan j bcaxwp, crpqc-twrc ojvruh. Fn cxx qjen
vjmn rc cqaxdpq bxvn qjam crvnb. Orocnnw hnjab rwcx cqrb wnf lnwcdah, fn
qjen yrltnm xdabnuenb dy, mdbcnm xdabnuenb xoo, jwm knpdw jpjrw cqn fxat
xo anvjtrwp Jvnarlj. Fn qjen ujrm j wnf oxdwmjcrxw. J karpqcna odcdan rb
xdab cx farcn. Unc'b knprw cqrb wnf lqjycna cxpncqna, jwm unc'b bcjac
cqn fxat arpqc wxf.

Cqjwt hxd. Pxm kunbb hxd. Pxm kunbb cqrb lxdwcah fn uxen. Cqjwt hxd.