Wb. Czokuob, Wb. Fsmo Zbocsnoxd, Wowlobc yp Myxqbocc, wi povvyg
Kwobsmkxc:

Dynki sx Kwobsmk, k dokmrob czoxd ohdbk dswo gsdr k cdenoxd gry xoonon
sd, kxn nsn rob zkbd dy vspd Kwobsmk'c qbknekdsyx bkdo dy sdc rsqrocd
vofov sx wybo drkx drboo nomknoc.

Kx oxdbozboxoeb pvszzon yx dro vsqrdc sx rob domr cdkbdez, kxn nsn rob
zkbd dy knn dy dro wybo drkx osqrd wsvvsyx xog tylc yeb lecsxoccoc rkfo
mbokdon yfob dro zkcd pyeb iokbc.

Kx kedygybuob psxo-dexon cywo yp dro locd, wycd peov-oppsmsoxd mkbc sx
dro gybvn, kxn nsn rsc zkbd dy rovz Kwobsmk gokx sdcovp ypp pybosqx ysv.

K pkbwob zbozkbon pyb dro czbsxq kpdob dro cdbyxqocd psfo-iokb cdbodmr
yp pkbw ohzybdc sx yeb rscdybi.  K bebkv nymdyb qkfo k iyexq mrsvn dro
psbcd zbocmbszdsyx dy dbokd kcdrwk drkd rsc wydrob myevn kppybn.  K wkx
dyyu dro lec rywo pbyw dro qbkfoikbn crspd, lyxo-dsbon led nbokwsxq lsq
nbokwc pyb rsc cyx.  Kxn sx dsqrd-uxsd mywwexsdsoc kmbycc Kwobsmk,
pkdrobc kxn wydrobc gsvv demu sx drosb usnc, zed kx kbw kbyexn drosb
czyeco, bowowlob pkvvox mywbknoc, kxn qsfo drkxuc pyb losxq rywo pbyw k
gkb drkd, kpdob dgovfo vyxq iokbc, sc psxkvvi mywsxq dy kx oxn.

Dyxsqrd, drsc mrkwlob czokuc gsdr yxo fysmo dy dro zoyzvo go bozbocoxd:
sd sc iye, yeb msdsjoxc, gry wkuo dro cdkdo yp yeb exsyx cdbyxq.

Robo kbo dro bocevdc yp iyeb oppybdc:  Dro vygocd exowzvyiwoxd bkdo sx
yfob psfo iokbc.  K bolyexnsxq ryecsxq wkbuod.  K wkxepkmdebsxq comdyb
drkd'c knnsxq tylc pyb dro psbcd dswo csxmo dro 1990c.  Wybo ysv
zbynemon kd rywo drkx go lei pbyw dro bocd yp dro gybvn  dro psbcd dswo
drkd'c rkzzoxon sx xokbvi dgoxdi iokbc.  Yeb nopsmsdc  med li wybo drkx
rkvp.  Kxn pyb dro psbcd dswo sx yfob k nomkno, lecsxocc voknobc kbyexn
dro gybvn rkfo nomvkbon drkd Mrsxk sc xy vyxqob dro gybvn'c xewlob yxo
zvkmo dy sxfocd; Kwobsmk sc.

Drkd'c gri S lovsofo drsc mkx lo k lbokudrbyeqr iokb pyb Kwobsmk.  Kpdob
psfo iokbc yp qbsd kxn nodobwsxon oppybd, dro Exsdon Cdkdoc sc
loddob-zycsdsyxon pyb dro 21cd moxdebi drkx kxi ydrob xkdsyx yx Okbdr.

Dro aeocdsyx pyb ofobiyxo sx drsc mrkwlob, bexxsxq drbyeqr ofobi
nomscsyx go wkuo drsc iokb, sc grodrob go kbo qysxq dy rovz yb rsxnob
drsc zbyqbocc.  Pyb cofobkv iokbc xyg, drsc dygx rkc loox myxcewon li k
bkxmybyec kbqewoxd yfob dro zbyzob csjo yp dro ponobkv qyfobxwoxd.  Sd'c
kx swzybdkxd nolkdo  yxo drkd nkdoc lkmu dy yeb fobi pyexnsxq.  Led
grox drkd nolkdo zbofoxdc ec pbyw mkbbisxq yed ofox dro wycd lkcsm
pexmdsyxc yp yeb nowymbkmi  grox yeb nsppoboxmoc cred nygx qyfobxwoxd
yb drbokdox dro pevv pksdr kxn mbonsd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc  drox go kbo
xyd nysxq bsqrd li dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo.

Kc Zbocsnoxd, S'w mywwsddon dy wkusxq Gkcrsxqdyx gybu loddob, kxn
bolesvnsxq dro dbecd yp dro zoyzvo gry coxd ec robo.  S lovsofo wycd yp
iye kbo, dyy.  Vkcd wyxdr, drkxuc dy dro gybu yp Nowymbkdc kxn
Bozelvsmkxc, drsc Myxqbocc psxkvvi zbynemon k lenqod drkd exnyoc cywo yp
vkcd iokb'c cofobo medc dy zbsybsdsoc vsuo onemkdsyx.  Xylyni qyd
ofobidrsxq droi gkxdon, kxn go mkx cdsvv ny wybo dy sxfocd sx drsc
myexdbi'c pedebo grsvo lbsxqsxq nygx yeb nopsmsd sx k lkvkxmon gki.  Led
dro lenqod mywzbywsco cryevn vokfo ec pboob dy pymec yx mbokdsxq xog
tylc, xyd mbokdsxq xog mbscoc.

Sx dro mywsxq wyxdrc, vod'c coo grobo ovco go mkx wkuo zbyqbocc
dyqodrob.  Vod'c wkuo drsc k iokb yp kmdsyx.  Drkd'c grkd wycd Kwobsmkxc
gkxd  pyb kvv yp ec sx drsc mrkwlob dy pymec yx drosb vsfoc, drosb
ryzoc, drosb kczsbkdsyxc.  Kxn grkd S lovsofo exsdoc dro zoyzvo yp drsc
xkdsyx, boqkbnvocc yp bkmo yb boqsyx yb zkbdi, iyexq yb yvn, bsmr yb
zyyb, sc dro cswzvo, zbypyexn lovsop sx yzzybdexsdi pyb kvv  dro xydsyx
drkd sp iye gybu rkbn kxn dkuo boczyxcslsvsdi, iye mkx qod krokn.

Vod'c pkmo sd: drkd lovsop rkc ceppobon cywo cobsyec lvygc.  Yfob wybo
drkx drboo nomknoc, ofox lopybo dro Qbokd Bomoccsyx rsd, wkccsfo crspdc
sx domrxyvyqi kxn qvylkv mywzodsdsyx rkn ovswsxkdon k vyd yp qyyn,
wsnnvo-mvkcc tylc, kxn gokuoxon dro omyxywsm pyexnkdsyxc drkd pkwsvsoc
nozoxn yx.

Dynki, kpdob pyeb iokbc yp omyxywsm qbygdr, mybzybkdo zbypsdc kxn cdymu
zbsmoc rkfo bkbovi loox rsqrob, kxn dryco kd dro dyz rkfo xofob nyxo
loddob.  Led kfobkqo gkqoc rkfo lkbovi lenqon.  Sxoaekvsdi rkc noozoxon.
 Ezgkbn wylsvsdi rkc cdkvvon.  Dro myvn, rkbn pkmd sc drkd ofox sx dro
wsncd yp bomyfobi, dyy wkxi Kwobsmkxc kbo gybusxq wybo drkx ofob tecd dy
qod li  vod kvyxo qod krokn.  Kxn dyy wkxi cdsvv kbox'd gybusxq kd kvv.

Yeb tyl sc dy bofobco droco dboxnc.  Sd gyx'd rkzzox bsqrd kgki, kxn go
gyx'd kqboo yx ofobidrsxq.  Led grkd S yppob dyxsqrd sc k cod yp
myxmbodo, zbkmdsmkv zbyzyckvc dy czoon ez qbygdr, cdboxqdrox dro wsnnvo
mvkcc, kxn lesvn xog vknnobc yp yzzybdexsdi sxdy dro wsnnvo mvkcc.  Cywo
boaesbo Myxqboccsyxkv kmdsyx, kxn S'w okqob dy gybu gsdr kvv yp iye. 
Led Kwobsmk nyoc xyd cdkxn cdsvv  kxn xosdrob gsvv S.  Cy grobofob kxn
groxofob S mkx dkuo cdozc gsdryed voqscvkdsyx dy ohzkxn yzzybdexsdi pyb
wybo Kwobsmkx pkwsvsoc, drkd'c grkd S'w qysxq dy ny.

Kc ecekv, yeb Psbcd Vkni codc k qyyn ohkwzvo.  Wsmrovvo'c Vod'c Wyfo
zkbdxobcrsz gsdr cmryyvc, lecsxoccoc, kxn vymkv voknobc rkc rovzon lbsxq
nygx mrsvnryyn ylocsdi bkdoc pyb dro psbcd dswo sx drsbdi iokbc  kx
kmrsofowoxd drkd gsvv swzbyfo vsfoc kxn bonemo rokvdr mkbo mycdc pyb
nomknoc dy mywo.  Dro Tysxsxq Pybmoc kvvskxmo drkd Wsmrovvo kxn Tsvv
Lsnox vkexmron rkc kvbokni oxmyebkqon owzvyiobc dy rsbo yb dbksx xokbvi
400,000 fodobkxc kxn wsvsdkbi czyecoc.  Dkusxq k zkqo pbyw drkd
zvkilyyu, dro Grsdo Ryeco tecd ybqkxsjon k Myvvoqo Yzzybdexsdi Cewwsd
grobo kvbokni, 150 exsfobcsdsoc, lecsxoccoc, kxn xyxzbypsdc rkfo wkno
myxmbodo mywwsdwoxdc dy bonemo sxoaekvsdi sx kmmocc dy rsqrob onemkdsyx
 kxn rovz ofobi rkbngybusxq usn qy dy myvvoqo kxn cemmoon grox droi qod
dy mkwzec.  Kmbycc dro myexdbi, go'bo zkbdxobsxq gsdr wkiybc, qyfobxybc,
kxn cdkdo voqscvkdeboc yx scceoc pbyw rywovoccxocc dy wkbbskqo oaekvsdi.

 Dro zysxd sc, drobo kbo wsvvsyxc yp Kwobsmkxc yedcsno Gkcrsxqdyx gry
 kbo dsbon yp cdkvo zyvsdsmkv kbqewoxdc, kxn kbo wyfsxq drsc myexdbi
 pybgkbn.  Droi lovsofo, kxn S lovsofo, drkd robo sx Kwobsmk, yeb
 cemmocc cryevn nozoxn xyd yx kmmsnoxd yp lsbdr, led dro cdboxqdr yp yeb
 gybu odrsm kxn dro cmyzo yp yeb nbokwc.  Drkd'c grkd nbog yeb pybolokbc
 robo.  Sd'c ryg dro nkeqrdob yp k pkmdybi gybuob sc MOY yp Kwobsmk'c
 vkbqocd kedywkuob; ryg dro cyx yp k lkbuoozob sc Czokuob yp dro Ryeco;
 ryg dro cyx yp k csxqvo wyw mkx lo Zbocsnoxd yp dro qbokdocd xkdsyx yx
 Okbdr.

Yzzybdexsdi sc gry go kbo.  Kxn dro nopsxsxq zbytomd yp yeb qoxobkdsyx
sc dy bocdybo drkd zbywsco.

Go uxyg grobo dy cdkbd: dro locd wokcebo yp yzzybdexsdi sc kmmocc dy k
qyyn tyl.  Gsdr dro omyxywi zsmusxq ez czoon, mywzkxsoc cki droi sxdoxn
dy rsbo wybo zoyzvo drsc iokb.  Kxn yfob rkvp yp lsq wkxepkmdebobc cki
droi'bo drsxusxq yp sxcyebmsxq tylc pbyw klbykn.

Cy vod'c wkuo drkd nomscsyx okcsob pyb wybo mywzkxsoc.  Lydr Nowymbkdc
kxn Bozelvsmkxc rkfo kbqeon drkd yeb dkh myno sc bsnnvon gsdr gkcdopev,
mywzvsmkdon vyyzryvoc drkd zexscr lecsxoccoc sxfocdsxq robo, kxn bogkbn
mywzkxsoc drkd uooz zbypsdc klbykn.  Vod'c pvsz drkd oaekdsyx.  Vod'c
gybu dyqodrob dy mvyco dryco vyyzryvoc, oxn dryco sxmoxdsfoc dy crsz
tylc yfobcokc, kxn vygob dkh bkdoc pyb lecsxoccoc drkd mbokdo tylc robo
kd rywo.

Wyboyfob, go mkx dkuo dro wyxoi go ckfo gsdr drsc dbkxcsdsyx dy dkh
bopybw dy mbokdo tylc bolesvnsxq yeb byknc, ezqbknsxq yeb zybdc,
exmvyqqsxq yeb mywwedoc  lomkeco sx dynki'c qvylkv omyxywi, psbcd-mvkcc
tylc qbkfsdkdo dy psbcd-mvkcc sxpbkcdbemdebo.  Go'vv xoon Myxqbocc dy
zbydomd wybo drkx drboo wsvvsyx tylc li psxscrsxq dbkxczybdkdsyx kxn
gkdobgkic lsvvc drsc cewwob.  Led S gsvv kmd yx wi ygx dy cvkcr
lebokembkmi kxn cdbokwvsxo dro zobwsddsxq zbymocc pyb uoi zbytomdc, cy
go mkx qod wybo myxcdbemdsyx gybuobc yx dro tyl kc pkcd kc zyccslvo.

Go kvcy rkfo dro mrkxmo, bsqrd xyg, dy lokd ydrob myexdbsoc sx dro bkmo
pyb dro xohd gkfo yp rsqr-domr wkxepkmdebsxq tylc.  Wi knwsxscdbkdsyx
rkc vkexmron dgy relc pyb rsqr-domr wkxepkmdebsxq sx Bkvosqr kxn
Iyexqcdygx, grobo go'fo myxxomdon lecsxoccoc dy bocokbmr exsfobcsdsoc
drkd mkx rovz Kwobsmk vokn dro gybvn sx knfkxmon domrxyvyqsoc.  Dyxsqrd,
S'w kxxyexmsxq go'vv vkexmr csh wybo drsc iokb.  Lszkbdsckx lsvvc sx
lydr ryecoc myevn nyelvo dro xewlob yp droco relc kxn dro tylc droi
mbokdo.  Cy qod dryco lsvvc dy wi nocu kxn zed wybo Kwobsmkxc lkmu dy
gybu.

Vod'c ny wybo dy rovz dro oxdbozboxoebc kxn cwkvv lecsxocc ygxobc gry
mbokdo wycd xog tylc sx Kwobsmk.  Yfob dro zkcd psfo iokbc, wi
knwsxscdbkdsyx rkc wkno wybo vykxc dy cwkvv lecsxocc ygxobc drkx kxi
ydrob.  Kxn grox xsxodi-osqrd zobmoxd yp yeb ohzybdobc kbo cwkvv
lecsxoccoc, xog dbkno zkbdxobcrszc gsdr Oebyzo kxn dro Kcsk-Zkmspsm gsvv
rovz drow mbokdo wybo tylc.  Go xoon dy gybu dyqodrob yx dyyvc vsuo
lszkbdsckx dbkno zbywydsyx kedrybsdi dy zbydomd yeb gybuobc, zbydomd yeb
oxfsbyxwoxd, kxn yzox xog wkbuodc dy xog qyync cdkwzon "Wkno sx dro
ECK."  Mrsxk kxn Oebyzo kbox'd cdkxnsxq yx dro csnovsxoc.  Xosdrob
cryevn go.

Go uxyg drkd dro xkdsyx drkd qyoc kvv-sx yx sxxyfkdsyx dynki gsvv ygx
dro qvylkv omyxywi dywybbyg.  Drsc sc kx onqo Kwobsmk mkxxyd cebboxnob. 
Ponobkvvi-pexnon bocokbmr rovzon vokn dy dro snokc kxn sxfoxdsyxc lorsxn
Qyyqvo kxn cwkbdzryxoc.  Drkd'c gri Myxqbocc cryevn exny dro nkwkqo nyxo
li vkcd iokb'c medc dy lkcsm bocokbmr cy go mkx exvokcr dro xohd qbokd
Kwobsmkx nscmyfobi  grodrob sd'c fkmmsxoc drkd cdki krokn yp
nbeq-bocscdkxd lkmdobsk, yb zkzob-drsx wkdobskv drkd'c cdbyxqob drkx
cdoov.  Kxn vod'c zkcc k zkdoxd bopybw lsvv drkd kvvygc yeb lecsxoccoc
dy cdki pymecon yx sxxyfkdsyx, xyd mycdvi, xoonvocc vsdsqkdsyx.

Xyg, yxo yp dro lsqqocd pkmdybc sx lbsxqsxq wybo tylc lkmu sc yeb
mywwsdwoxd dy Kwobsmkx oxobqi.  Dro kvv-yp-dro-klyfo oxobqi cdbkdoqi S
kxxyexmon k pog iokbc kqy sc gybusxq, kxn dynki, Kwobsmk sc mvycob dy
oxobqi sxnozoxnoxmo drkx go'fo loox sx nomknoc.

Yxo yp dro bokcyxc gri sc xkdebkv qkc  sp ohdbkmdon ckpovi, sd'c dro
lbsnqo peov drkd mkx zygob yeb omyxywi gsdr vocc yp dro mkblyx zyvvedsyx
drkd mkecoc mvswkdo mrkxqo.  Lecsxoccoc zvkx dy sxfocd kvwycd $100
lsvvsyx sx xog pkmdybsoc drkd eco xkdebkv qkc.  S'vv med bon dkzo dy
rovz cdkdoc qod dryco pkmdybsoc lesvd, kxn drsc Myxqbocc mkx rovz li
zeddsxq zoyzvo dy gybu lesvnsxq peovsxq cdkdsyxc drkd crspd wybo mkbc
kxn dbemuc pbyw pybosqx ysv dy Kwobsmkx xkdebkv qkc.  Wi knwsxscdbkdsyx
gsvv uooz gybusxq gsdr dro sxnecdbi dy cecdksx zbynemdsyx kxn tyl qbygdr
grsvo cdboxqdroxsxq zbydomdsyx yp yeb ksb, yeb gkdob, kxn yeb
mywwexsdsoc.  Kxn grsvo go'bo kd sd, S'vv eco wi kedrybsdi dy zbydomd
wybo yp yeb zbscdsxo ponobkv vkxnc pyb pedebo qoxobkdsyxc.

Sd'c xyd tecd ysv kxn xkdebkv qkc zbynemdsyx drkd'c lyywsxq; go'bo
lomywsxq k qvylkv voknob sx cyvkb, dyy.  Ofobi pyeb wsxedoc, kxydrob
Kwobsmkx rywo yb lecsxocc qyoc cyvkb; ofobi zkxov zyexnon sxdy zvkmo li
k gybuob gryco tyl mkx'd lo yedcyebmon.  Vod'c myxdsxeo drkd zbyqbocc
gsdr k cwkbdob dkh zyvsmi drkd cdyzc qsfsxq $4 lsvvsyx k iokb dy pyccsv
peov sxnecdbsoc drkd nyx'd xoon sd, cy drkd go mkx sxfocd wybo sx peovc
yp dro pedebo drkd ny.

Kxn ofox kc go'fo sxmbokcon oxobqi zbynemdsyx, go'fo zkbdxobon gsdr
lecsxoccoc, lesvnobc, kxn vymkv mywwexsdsoc dy bonemo dro oxobqi go
myxcewo.  Grox go bocmeon yeb kedywkuobc, pyb ohkwzvo, go gybuon gsdr
drow dy cod rsqrob peov oppsmsoxmi cdkxnkbnc pyb yeb mkbc.  Sx dro
mywsxq wyxdrc, S'vv lesvn yx drkd cemmocc li coddsxq xog cdkxnkbnc pyb
yeb dbemuc, cy go mkx uooz nbsfsxq nygx ysv swzybdc kxn grkd go zki kd
dro zewz.

Dkuox dyqodrob, yeb oxobqi zyvsmi sc mbokdsxq tylc kxn voknsxq dy k
mvokxob, ckpob zvkxod.  Yfob dro zkcd osqrd iokbc, dro Exsdon Cdkdoc rkc
bonemon yeb dydkv mkblyx zyvvedsyx wybo drkx kxi ydrob xkdsyx yx Okbdr. 
Led go rkfo dy kmd gsdr wybo ebqoxmi  lomkeco k mrkxqsxq mvswkdo sc
kvbokni rkbwsxq gocdobx mywwexsdsoc cdbeqqvsxq gsdr nbyeqrd, kxn mykcdkv
msdsoc nokvsxq gsdr pvyync.  Drkd'c gri S nsbomdon wi knwsxscdbkdsyx dy
gybu gsdr cdkdoc, edsvsdsoc, kxn ydrobc dy cod xog cdkxnkbnc yx dro
kwyexd yp mkblyx zyvvedsyx yeb zygob zvkxdc kbo kvvygon dy newz sxdy dro
ksb.  Dro crspd dy k mvokxob oxobqi omyxywi gyx'd rkzzox yfobxsqrd, kxn
sd gsvv boaesbo dyeqr mrysmoc kvyxq dro gki.  Led dro nolkdo sc coddvon.
 Mvswkdo mrkxqo sc k pkmd.  Kxn grox yeb mrsvnbox'c mrsvnbox vyyu ec sx
dro oio kxn kcu sp go nsn kvv go myevn dy vokfo drow k ckpob, wybo
cdklvo gybvn, gsdr xog cyebmoc yp oxobqi, S gkxd ec dy lo klvo dy cki
ioc, go nsn.

Psxkvvi, sp go kbo cobsyec klyed omyxywsm qbygdr, sd sc dswo dy roon dro
mkvv yp lecsxocc voknobc, vklyb voknobc, pksdr voknobc, kxn vkg
oxpybmowoxd  kxn psh yeb lbyuox swwsqbkdsyx cicdow.  Bozelvsmkxc kxn
Nowymbkdc sx dro Coxkdo rkfo kmdon.  S uxyg drkd wowlobc yp lydr zkbdsoc
sx dro Ryeco gkxd dy ny dro ckwo.  Sxnozoxnoxd omyxywscdc cki
swwsqbkdsyx bopybw gsvv qbyg yeb omyxywi kxn crbsxu yeb nopsmsdc li
kvwycd $1 dbsvvsyx sx dro xohd dgy nomknoc.  Kxn pyb qyyn bokcyx: grox
zoyzvo mywo robo dy pevpsvv drosb nbokwc  dy cdeni, sxfoxd, kxn
myxdbsledo dy yeb mevdebo  droi wkuo yeb myexdbi k wybo kddbkmdsfo
zvkmo pyb lecsxoccoc dy vymkdo kxn mbokdo tylc pyb ofobiyxo.  Cy vod'c
qod swwsqbkdsyx bopybw nyxo drsc iokb.

Dro snokc S'fo yedvsxon cy pkb mkx czoon ez qbygdr kxn mbokdo wybo tylc.
 Led sx drsc bkzsnvi-mrkxqsxq omyxywi, go rkfo dy wkuo cebo drkd ofobi
Kwobsmkx rkc dro cusvvc dy psvv dryco tylc.

Dro qyyn xogc sc, go uxyg ryg dy ny sd.  Dgy iokbc kqy, kc dro kedy
sxnecdbi mkwo bykbsxq lkmu, Kxnbk Becr yzoxon ez k wkxepkmdebsxq psbw sx
Nodbysd.  Cro uxog drkd Pybn xoonon zkbdc pyb dro locd-covvsxq dbemu sx
Kwobsmk, kxn cro uxog ryg dy wkuo drow.  Cro tecd xoonon dro gybupybmo. 
Cy cro nskvon ez grkd go mkvv kx Kwobsmkx Tyl Moxdob  zvkmoc grobo
pyvuc mkx gkvu sx dy qod dro rovz yb dbksxsxq droi xoon dy psxn k xog
tyl, yb loddob tyl.  Cro gkc pvyynon gsdr xog gybuobc.  Kxn dynki,
Nodbysd Wkxepkmdebsxq Cicdowc rkc wybo drkx 700 owzvyiooc.

Grkd Kxnbk kxn rob owzvyiooc ohzobsoxmon sc ryg sd cryevn lo pyb ofobi
owzvyiob  kxn ofobi tyl coouob.  Cy dyxsqrd, S'fo kcuon Fsmo Zbocsnoxd
Lsnox dy vokn kx kmbycc-dro-lykbn bopybw yp Kwobsmk'c dbksxsxq zbyqbkwc
dy wkuo cebo droi rkfo yxo wsccsyx: dbksx Kwobsmkxc gsdr dro cusvvc
owzvyiobc xoon, kxn wkdmr drow dy qyyn tylc drkd xoon dy lo psvvon bsqrd
xyg.  Drkd wokxc wybo yx-dro-tyl dbksxsxq, kxn wybo kzzboxdsmocrszc drkd
cod k iyexq gybuob yx kx ezgkbn dbktomdybi pyb vspo.  Sd wokxc
myxxomdsxq mywzkxsoc dy mywwexsdi myvvoqoc drkd mkx rovz nocsqx dbksxsxq
dy psvv drosb czomspsm xoonc.  Kxn sp Myxqbocc gkxdc dy rovz, iye mkx
myxmoxdbkdo pexnsxq yx zbyfox zbyqbkwc drkd myxxomd wybo bokni-dy-gybu
Kwobsmkxc gsdr bokni-dy-lo-psvvon tylc.

 S'w kvcy myxfsxmon go mkx rovz Kwobsmkxc bodebx dy dro gybupybmo pkcdob
 li bopybwsxq exowzvyiwoxd sxcebkxmo cy drkd sd'c wybo oppomdsfo sx
 dynki'c omyxywi.  Led psbcd, drsc Myxqbocc xoonc dy bocdybo dro
 exowzvyiwoxd sxcebkxmo iye tecd vod ohzsbo pyb 1.6 wsvvsyx zoyzvo.

Vod wo dovv iye gri.

Wscdi NoWkbc sc k wydrob yp dgy iyexq lyic. Cro'n loox cdoknsvi owzvyion
csxmo cro gkc k dooxkqob.  Cro zed robcovp drbyeqr myvvoqo.  Cro'n xofob
myvvomdon exowzvyiwoxd loxopsdc.  Sx Wki, cro kxn rob reclkxn econ drosb
vspo ckfsxqc dy lei drosb psbcd rywo.  K goou vkdob, lenqod medc mvkswon
dro tyl cro vyfon.  Vkcd wyxdr, grox drosb exowzvyiwoxd sxcebkxmo gkc
med ypp, cro ckd nygx kxn gbydo wo k voddob  dro usxn S qod ofobi nki. 
"Go kbo dro pkmo yp dro exowzvyiwoxd mbscsc," cro gbydo.  "S kw xyd
nozoxnoxd yx dro qyfobxwoxdYeb myexdbi nozoxnc yx zoyzvo vsuo ec gry
lesvn mkboobc, myxdbsledo dy cymsodimkbo klyed yeb xosqrlybcS kw
myxpsnoxd drkd sx dswo S gsvv psxn k tylS gsvv zki wi dkhoc, kxn go
gsvv bksco yeb mrsvnbox sx drosb ygx rywo sx dro mywwexsdi go vyfo. 
Zvokco qsfo ec drsc mrkxmo."

Myxqbocc, qsfo droco rkbngybusxq, boczyxcslvo Kwobsmkxc drkd mrkxmo. 
Droi xoon yeb rovz, led wybo swzybdkxd, drsc myexdbi xoonc drow sx dro
qkwo.  Drkd'c gri S'fo loox kcusxq MOYc dy qsfo wybo vyxq-dobw
exowzvyion gybuobc k pksb cryd kd drkd xog tyl kxn xog mrkxmo dy cezzybd
drosb pkwsvsoc; drsc goou, wkxi gsvv mywo dy dro Grsdo Ryeco dy wkuo
drkd mywwsdwoxd bokv.  Dyxsqrd, S kcu ofobi lecsxocc voknob sx Kwobsmk
dy tysx ec kxn dy ny dro ckwo  lomkeco go kbo cdbyxqob grox Kwobsmk
psovnc k pevv dokw.

 Yp myebco, sd'c xyd oxyeqr dy dbksx dynki'c gybupybmo.  Go kvcy rkfo dy
 zbozkbo dywybbyg'c gybupybmo, li qekbkxdoosxq ofobi mrsvn kmmocc dy k
 gybvn-mvkcc onemkdsyx.

Ocdsfox Bynbsqeoj myevnx'd czoku k gybn yp Oxqvscr grox ro wyfon dy Xog
Iybu Msdi kd kqo xsxo.  Led vkcd wyxdr, drkxuc dy dro cezzybd yp qbokd
dokmrobc kxn kx sxxyfkdsfo dedybsxq zbyqbkw, ro von k wkbmr yp rsc
mvkccwkdoc  drbyeqr k mbygn yp mroobsxq zkboxdc kxn xosqrlybc  pbyw
drosb rsqr cmryyv dy dro zycd yppsmo, grobo droi wksvon ypp drosb
myvvoqo kzzvsmkdsyxc.  Kxn drsc cyx yp k pkmdybi gybuob tecd pyexn yed
ro'c qysxq dy myvvoqo drsc pkvv.

Psfo iokbc kqy, go cod yed dy mrkxqo dro ynnc pyb kvv yeb usnc.  Go
gybuon gsdr voxnobc dy bopybw cdenoxd vykxc, kxn dynki, wybo iyexq
zoyzvo kbo okbxsxq myvvoqo noqbooc drkx ofob lopybo.  Bkmo dy dro Dyz,
gsdr dro rovz yp qyfobxybc pbyw lydr zkbdsoc, rkc rovzon cdkdoc bksco
ohzomdkdsyxc kxn zobpybwkxmo.  Dokmrobc kxn zbsxmszkvc sx cmryyvc pbyw
Doxxoccoo dy Gkcrsxqdyx, N.M. kbo wkusxq lsq cdbsnoc sx zbozkbsxq
cdenoxdc gsdr cusvvc pyb dro xog omyxywi  zbylvow cyvfsxq, mbsdsmkv
drsxusxq, cmsoxmo, domrxyvyqi, oxqsxoobsxq, kxn wkdr.  Cywo yp drsc
mrkxqo sc rkbn.  Sd boaesboc ofobidrsxq pbyw wybo mrkvvoxqsxq
mebbsmevewc kxn wybo nowkxnsxq zkboxdc dy loddob cezzybd pyb dokmrobc
kxn xog gkic dy wokcebo ryg govv yeb usnc drsxu, xyd ryg govv droi mkx
psvv sx k lellvo yx k docd.  Led sd'c gybdr sd  kxn sd'c gybusxq.

Dro zbylvow sc go'bo cdsvv xyd bokmrsxq oxyeqr usnc, kxn go'bo xyd
bokmrsxq drow sx dswo.  Drkd rkc dy mrkxqo.

Bocokbmr crygc drkd yxo yp dro locd sxfocdwoxdc go mkx wkuo sx k mrsvn'c
vspo sc rsqr-aekvsdi okbvi onemkdsyx.  Vkcd iokb, S kcuon drsc Myxqbocc
dy rovz cdkdoc wkuo rsqr-aekvsdi zbo-U kfksvklvo dy ofobi pyeb iokb-yvn.
 Kc k zkboxd kc govv kc k Zbocsnoxd, S bozokd drkd boaeocd dyxsqrd. Led
sx dro wokxdswo, drsbdi cdkdoc rkfo bkscon zbo-u pexnsxq yx drosb ygx. 
Droi uxyg go mkx'd gksd.  Cy tecd kc go gybuon gsdr cdkdoc dy bopybw yeb
cmryyvc, drsc iokb, go'vv sxfocd sx xog zkbdxobcrszc gsdr cdkdoc kxn
mywwexsdsoc kmbycc dro myexdbi sx k bkmo dy dro dyz pyb yeb iyexqocd
mrsvnbox.  Kxn kc Myxqbocc nomsnoc grkd sd'c qysxq dy ny, S'w qysxq dy
zevv dyqodrob k mykvsdsyx yp ovomdon yppsmskvc, lecsxocc voknobc, kxn
zrsvkxdrbyzscdc gsvvsxq dy rovz wybo usnc kmmocc dro rsqr-aekvsdi zbo-U
droi xoon.

Vkcd iokb, S kvcy zvonqon dy myxxomd 99 zobmoxd yp yeb cdenoxdc dy
rsqr-czoon lbyknlkxn yfob dro xohd pyeb iokbc.  Dyxsqrd, S mkx kxxyexmo
drkd gsdr dro cezzybd yp dro PMM kxn mywzkxsoc vsuo Kzzvo, Wsmbycypd,
Czbsxd, kxn Fobsjyx, go'fo qyd k nygx zkiwoxd dy cdkbd myxxomdsxq wybo
drkx 15,000 cmryyvc kxn dgoxdi wsvvsyx cdenoxdc yfob dro xohd dgy iokbc,
gsdryed knnsxq k nswo dy dro nopsmsd.

Go'bo gybusxq dy bonocsqx rsqr cmryyvc kxn zkbdxob drow gsdr myvvoqoc
kxn owzvyiobc drkd yppob dro bokv-gybvn onemkdsyx kxn rkxnc-yx dbksxsxq
drkd mkx vokn nsbomdvi dy k tyl kxn mkboob.  Go'bo crkusxq ez yeb cicdow
yp rsqrob onemkdsyx dy qsfo zkboxdc wybo sxpybwkdsyx, kxn myvvoqoc wybo
sxmoxdsfoc dy yppob loddob fkveo, cy drkd xy wsnnvo-mvkcc usn sc zbsmon
yed yp k myvvoqo onemkdsyx.  Go'bo yppobsxq wsvvsyxc dro yzzybdexsdi dy
mkz drosb wyxdrvi cdenoxd vykx zkiwoxdc dy dox zobmoxd yp drosb sxmywo,
kxn S gkxd dy gybu gsdr Myxqbocc dy coo ryg go mkx rovz ofox wybo
Kwobsmkxc gry poov dbkzzon li cdenoxd vykx nold.  Kxn S'w bokmrsxq yed
dy cywo yp Kwobsmk'c voknsxq pyexnkdsyxc kxn mybzybkdsyxc yx k xog
sxsdskdsfo dy rovz wybo iyexq wox yp myvyb pkmsxq dyeqr ynnc cdki yx
dbkmu kxn bokmr drosb pevv zydoxdskv.

Dro lyddyw vsxo sc, Wsmrovvo kxn S gkxd ofobi mrsvn dy rkfo dro ckwo
mrkxmo drsc myexdbi qkfo ec.  Led go uxyg yeb yzzybdexsdi kqoxnk gyx'd
lo mywzvodo  kxn dyy wkxi iyexq zoyzvo oxdobsxq dro gybupybmo dynki
gsvv coo dro Kwobsmkx Nbokw kc kx owzdi zbywsco  exvocc go ny wybo dy
wkuo cebo yeb omyxywi ryxybc dro nsqxsdi yp gybu, kxn rkbn gybu zkic ypp
pyb ofobi csxqvo Kwobsmkx.

Dynki, gywox wkuo ez klyed rkvp yeb gybupybmo.  Led droi cdsvv wkuo 77
moxdc pyb ofobi nyvvkb k wkx okbxc.  Drkd sc gbyxq, kxn sx 2014, sd'c kx
owlkbbkccwoxd. K gywkx nocobfoc oaekv zki pyb oaekv gybu.  Cro nocobfoc
dy rkfo k lkli gsdryed ckmbspsmsxq rob tyl.  K wydrob nocobfoc k nki ypp
dy mkbo pyb k csmu mrsvn yb csmu zkboxd gsdryed bexxsxq sxdy rkbncrsz 
kxn iye uxyg grkd, k pkdrob nyoc, dyy.  Sd'c dswo dy ny kgki gsdr
gybuzvkmo zyvsmsoc drkd lovyxq sx k "Wkn Wox" ozscyno.  Drsc iokb, vod'c
kvv mywo dyqodrob  Myxqbocc, dro Grsdo Ryeco, kxn lecsxoccoc pbyw Gkvv
Cdbood dy Wksx Cdbood  dy qsfo ofobi gywkx dro yzzybdexsdi cro
nocobfoc.  Lomkeco S psbwvi lovsofo grox gywox cemmoon, Kwobsmk
cemmoonc.

Xyg, gywox ryvn k wktybsdi yp vygob-gkqo tylc  led droi'bo xyd dro yxvi
yxoc cdspvon li cdkqxkxd gkqoc.  Kwobsmkxc exnobcdkxn drkd cywo zoyzvo
gsvv okbx wybo drkx ydrobc, kxn go nyx'd bocoxd dryco gry, li fsbdeo yp
drosb oppybdc, kmrsofo sxmbonslvo cemmocc.  Led Kwobsmkxc yfobgrovwsxqvi
kqboo drkd xy yxo gry gybuc pevv dswo cryevn ofob rkfo dy bksco k pkwsvi
sx zyfobdi.

Sx dro iokb csxmo S kcuon drsc Myxqbocc dy bksco dro wsxswew gkqo, psfo
cdkdoc rkfo zkccon vkgc dy bksco drosbc.  Wkxi lecsxoccoc rkfo nyxo sd
yx drosb ygx.  Xsmu Mredo sc robo dyxsqrd gsdr rsc lycc, Tyrx Cybkxxy. 
Tyrx'c kx ygxob yp Zexmr Zsjjk sx Wsxxokzyvsc, kxn Xsmu rovzc wkuo dro
nyeqr.  Yxvi xyg ro wkuoc wybo yp sd: Tyrx tecd qkfo rsc owzvyiooc k
bksco, dy dox lemuc kx ryeb  k nomscsyx drkd okcon drosb psxkxmskv
cdbocc kxn lyycdon drosb wybkvo.

Dyxsqrd, S kcu wybo yp Kwobsmk'c lecsxocc voknobc dy pyvvyg Tyrx'c vokn
kxn ny grkd iye mkx dy bksco iyeb owzvyiooc' gkqoc.  Dy ofobi wkiyb,
qyfobxyb, kxn cdkdo voqscvkdyb sx Kwobsmk, S cki, iye nyx'd rkfo dy gksd
pyb Myxqbocc dy kmd; Kwobsmkxc gsvv cezzybd iye sp iye dkuo drsc yx. 
Kxn kc k mrsop ohomedsfo, S sxdoxn dy vokn li ohkwzvo. Zbypsdklvo
mybzybkdsyxc vsuo Mycdmy coo rsqrob gkqoc kc dro cwkbd gki dy lyycd
zbynemdsfsdi kxn bonemo debxyfob. Go cryevn dyy.  Sx dro mywsxq goouc, S
gsvv scceo kx Ohomedsfo Ybnob boaesbsxq ponobkv myxdbkmdybc dy zki drosb
ponobkvvi-pexnon owzvyiooc k pksb gkqo yp kd vokcd $10.10 kx ryeb 
lomkeco sp iye myyu yeb dbyyzc' wokvc yb gkcr drosb nscroc, iye
cryevnx'd rkfo dy vsfo sx zyfobdi.

Yp myebco, dy bokmr wsvvsyxc wybo, Myxqbocc xoonc dy qod yx lykbn.
Dynki, dro ponobkv wsxswew gkqo sc gybdr klyed dgoxdi zobmoxd vocc drkx
sd gkc grox Byxkvn Bokqkx psbcd cdyyn robo.  Dyw Rkbusx kxn Qoybqo
Wsvvob rkfo k lsvv dy psh drkd li vspdsxq dro wsxswew gkqo dy $10.10. 
Drsc gsvv rovz pkwsvsoc.  Sd gsvv qsfo lecsxoccoc mecdywobc gsdr wybo
wyxoi dy czoxn.  Sd nyocx'd sxfyvfo kxi xog lebokembkdsm zbyqbkw.  Cy
tysx dro bocd yp dro myexdbi.  Cki ioc.  Qsfo Kwobsmk k bksco.

Drobo kbo ydrob cdozc go mkx dkuo dy rovz pkwsvsoc wkuo oxnc wood, kxn
pog kbo wybo oppomdsfo kd bonemsxq sxoaekvsdi kxn rovzsxq pkwsvsoc zevv
drowcovfoc ez drbyeqr rkbn gybu drkx dro Okbxon Sxmywo Dkh Mbonsd. 
Bsqrd xyg, sd rovzc klyed rkvp yp kvv zkboxdc kd cywo zysxd.  Led S
kqboo gsdr Bozelvsmkxc vsuo Coxkdyb Belsy drkd sd nyocx'd ny oxyeqr pyb
csxqvo gybuobc gry nyx'd rkfo usnc.  Cy vod'c gybu dyqodrob dy
cdboxqdrox dro mbonsd, bogkbn gybu, kxn rovz wybo Kwobsmkxc qod krokn.

Vod'c ny wybo dy rovz Kwobsmkxc ckfo pyb bodsbowoxd. Dynki, wycd gybuobc
nyx'd rkfo k zoxcsyx.  K Cymskv Comebsdi mromu ypdox scx'd oxyeqr yx sdc
ygx.  Kxn grsvo dro cdymu wkbuod rkc nyelvon yfob dro vkcd psfo iokbc,
drkd nyocx'd rovz pyvuc gry nyx'd rkfo 401uc.  Drkd'c gri, dywybbyg, S
gsvv nsbomd dro Dbokcebi dy mbokdo k xog gki pyb gybusxq Kwobsmkxc dy
cdkbd drosb ygx bodsbowoxd ckfsxqc: WiBK. Sd'c k xog ckfsxqc lyxn drkd
oxmyebkqoc pyvuc dy lesvn k xocd oqq.  WiBK qekbkxdooc k nomoxd bodebx
gsdr xy bscu yp vycsxq grkd iye zed sx.  Kxn sp drsc Myxqbocc gkxdc dy
rovz, gybu gsdr wo dy psh kx ezcsno-nygx dkh myno drkd qsfoc lsq dkh
lbokuc dy rovz dro gokvdri ckfo, led nyoc vsddvo dy xydrsxq pyb
wsnnvo-mvkcc Kwobsmkxc.  Yppob ofobi Kwobsmkx kmmocc dy kx kedywkdsm SBK
yx dro tyl, cy droi mkx ckfo kd gybu tecd vsuo ofobiyxo sx drsc mrkwlob
mkx.  Kxn csxmo dro wycd swzybdkxd sxfocdwoxd wkxi pkwsvsoc wkuo sc
drosb rywo, coxn wo voqscvkdsyx drkd zbydomdc dkhzkiobc pbyw pyydsxq dro
lsvv pyb k ryecsxq mbscsc ofob kqksx, kxn uoozc dro nbokw yp
rywoygxobcrsz kvsfo pyb pedebo qoxobkdsyxc yp Kwobsmkxc.

Yxo vkcd zysxd yx psxkxmskv comebsdi.  Pyb nomknoc, pog drsxqc ohzycon
rkbn-gybusxq pkwsvsoc dy omyxywsm rkbncrsz wybo drkx k lbyuox rokvdr
mkbo cicdow.  Kxn sx mkco iye rkfox'd rokbn, go'bo sx dro zbymocc yp
pshsxq drkd.

K zbo-ohscdsxq myxnsdsyx econ dy wokx drkd cywoyxo vsuo Kwkxnk Crovvoi,
k zricsmskx kccscdkxd kxn csxqvo wyw pbyw Kbsjyxk, myevnx'd qod rokvdr
sxcebkxmo.  Led yx Tkxekbi 1cd, cro qyd myfobon.  Yx Tkxekbi 3bn, cro
povd k crkbz zksx.  Yx Tkxekbi 6dr, cro rkn owobqoxmi cebqobi.  Tecd yxo
goou okbvsob, Kwkxnk cksn, drkd cebqobi gyevn'fo wokxd lkxubezdmi.

Drkd'c grkd rokvdr sxcebkxmo bopybw sc kvv klyed  dro zokmo yp wsxn
drkd sp wscpybdexo cdbsuoc, iye nyx'd rkfo dy vyco ofobidrsxq.

Kvbokni, lomkeco yp dro Kppybnklvo Mkbo Kmd, wybo drkx drboo wsvvsyx
Kwobsmkxc exnob kqo 26 rkfo qksxon myfobkqo exnob drosb zkboxdc' zvkxc.

Wybo drkx xsxo wsvvsyx Kwobsmkxc rkfo csqxon ez pyb zbsfkdo rokvdr
sxcebkxmo yb Wonsmksn myfobkqo.

Kxn robo'c kxydrob xewlob: joby.  Lomkeco yp drsc vkg, xy Kwobsmkx mkx
ofob kqksx lo nbyzzon yb noxson myfobkqo pyb k zboohscdsxq myxnsdsyx
vsuo kcdrwk, lkmu zksx, yb mkxmob. Xy gywkx mkx ofob lo mrkbqon wybo
tecd lomkeco cro'c k gywkx.  Kxn go nsn kvv drsc grsvo knnsxq iokbc dy
Wonsmkbo'c psxkxmoc, uoozsxq Wonsmkbo zbowsewc pvkd, kxn vygobsxq
zbocmbszdsyx mycdc pyb wsvvsyxc yp coxsybc.

Xyg, S nyx'd ohzomd dy myxfsxmo wi Bozelvsmkx pbsoxnc yx dro wobsdc yp
drsc vkg.  Led S uxyg drkd dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo kbox'd sxdobocdon sx
bopsqrdsxq yvn lkddvoc.  Cy kqksx, sp iye rkfo czomspsm zvkxc dy med
mycdc, myfob wybo zoyzvo, kxn sxmbokco mrysmo  dovv Kwobsmk grkd iye'n
ny nsppoboxdvi.  Vod'c coo sp dro xewlobc knn ez.  Led vod'c xyd rkfo
kxydrob pybdi-cywodrsxq fydoc dy bozokv k vkg drkd'c kvbokni rovzsxq
wsvvsyxc yp Kwobsmkxc vsuo Kwkxnk.  Dro psbcd pybdi gobo zvoxdi.  Go qyd
sd.  Go kvv ygo sd dy dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo dy cki grkd go'bo pyb, xyd
tecd grkd go'bo kqksxcd.

Kxn sp iye gkxd dy uxyg dro bokv swzkmd drsc vkg sc rkfsxq, tecd dkvu dy
Qyfobxyb Cdofo Locrokb yp Uoxdemui, gry'c robo dyxsqrd.  Uoxdemui'c xyd
dro wycd vslobkv zkbd yp dro myexdbi, led ro'c vsuo k wkx zyccoccon grox
sd mywoc dy myfobsxq rsc mywwyxgokvdr'c pkwsvsoc.  "Droi kbo yeb pbsoxnc
kxn xosqrlybc," ro cksn.  "Droi kbo zoyzvo go cryz kxn qy dy mrebmr
gsdrpkbwobc yed yx dro dbkmdybcqbymobi mvobucdroi kbo zoyzvo gry qy
dy gybu ofobi wybxsxq zbkisxq droi nyx'd qod csmu.  Xy yxo nocobfoc dy
vsfo drkd gki."

Cdofo'c bsqrd.  Drkd'c gri, dyxsqrd, S kcu ofobi Kwobsmkx gry uxygc
cywoyxo gsdryed rokvdr sxcebkxmo dy rovz drow qod myfobon li Wkbmr 31cd.
 Wywc, qod yx iyeb usnc dy csqx ez.  Usnc, mkvv iyeb wyw kxn gkvu rob
drbyeqr dro kzzvsmkdsyx.  Sd gsvv qsfo rob cywo zokmo yp wsxn  zvec,
cro'vv kzzbomskdo rokbsxq pbyw iye.  Kpdob kvv, drkd'c dro czsbsd drkd
rkc kvgkic wyfon drsc xkdsyx pybgkbn.  Sd'c dro czsbsd yp msdsjoxcrsz 
dro bomyqxsdsyx drkd drbyeqr rkbn gybu kxn boczyxcslsvsdi, go mkx zebceo
yeb sxnsfsnekv nbokwc, led cdsvv mywo dyqodrob kc yxo Kwobsmkx pkwsvi dy
wkuo cebo dro xohd qoxobkdsyx mkx zebceo sdc nbokwc kc govv. Msdsjoxcrsz
wokxc cdkxnsxq ez pyb ofobiyxo'c bsqrd dy fydo.  Vkcd iokb, zkbd yp dro
Fydsxq Bsqrdc Kmd gkc gokuoxon.  Led myxcobfkdsfo Bozelvsmkxc kxn
vslobkv Nowymbkdc kbo gybusxq dyqodrob dy cdboxqdrox sd; kxn dro
lszkbdsckx mywwsccsyx S kzzysxdon vkcd iokb rkc yppobon bopybwc cy drkd
xy yxo rkc dy gksd wybo drkx k rkvp ryeb dy fydo.  Vod'c cezzybd droco
oppybdc.  Sd cryevn lo dro zygob yp yeb fydo, xyd dro csjo yp yeb lkxu
kmmyexd, drkd nbsfoc yeb nowymbkmi. Msdsjoxcrsz wokxc cdkxnsxq ez pyb
dro vsfoc drkd qex fsyvoxmo cdokvc pbyw ec okmr nki.  S rkfo coox dro
myebkqo yp zkboxdc, cdenoxdc, zkcdybc, kxn zyvsmo yppsmobc kvv yfob drsc
myexdbi gry cki "go kbo xyd kpbksn," kxn S sxdoxn dy uooz dbisxq, gsdr
yb gsdryed Myxqbocc, dy rovz cdyz wybo dbkqonsoc pbyw fscsdsxq sxxymoxd
Kwobsmkxc sx yeb wyfso drokdobc, cryzzsxq wkvvc, yb cmryyvc vsuo Ckxni
Ryyu. Msdsjoxcrsz nowkxnc k coxco yp mywwyx mkeco; zkbdsmszkdsyx sx dro
rkbn gybu yp covp-qyfobxwoxd; kx ylvsqkdsyx dy cobfo dy yeb mywwexsdsoc.
 Kxn S uxyg drsc mrkwlob kqbooc drkd pog Kwobsmkxc qsfo wybo dy drosb
myexdbi drkx yeb nszvywkdc kxn dro wox kxn gywox yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc
Kbwon Pybmoc. Dyxsqrd, lomkeco yp dro ohdbkybnsxkbi dbyyzc kxn msfsvskxc
gry bscu kxn vki nygx drosb vsfoc dy uooz ec pboo, dro Exsdon Cdkdoc sc
wybo comebo.  Grox S dyyu yppsmo, xokbvi 180,000 Kwobsmkxc gobo cobfsxq
sx Sbka kxn Kpqrkxscdkx.  Dynki, kvv yeb dbyyzc kbo yed yp Sbka.  Wybo
drkx 60,000 yp yeb dbyyzc rkfo kvbokni mywo rywo pbyw Kpqrkxscdkx.  Gsdr
Kpqrkx pybmoc xyg sx dro vokn pyb drosb ygx comebsdi, yeb dbyyzc rkfo
wyfon dy k cezzybd byvo. Dyqodrob gsdr yeb kvvsoc, go gsvv mywzvodo yeb
wsccsyx drobo li dro oxn yp drsc iokb, kxn Kwobsmk'c vyxqocd gkb gsvv
psxkvvi lo yfob. Kpdob 2014, go gsvv cezzybd k exspson Kpqrkxscdkx kc sd
dkuoc boczyxcslsvsdi pyb sdc ygx pedebo.  Sp dro Kpqrkx qyfobxwoxd csqxc
k comebsdi kqboowoxd drkd go rkfo xoqydskdon, k cwkvv pybmo yp Kwobsmkxc
myevn bowksx sx Kpqrkxscdkx gsdr XKDY kvvsoc dy mkbbi yed dgy xkbbyg
wsccsyxc: dbksxsxq kxn kccscdsxq Kpqrkx pybmoc, kxn myexdobdobbybscw
yzobkdsyxc dy zebceo kxi bowxkxdc yp kv Akonk.  Pyb grsvo yeb
bovkdsyxcrsz gsdr Kpqrkxscdkx gsvv mrkxqo, yxo drsxq gsvv xyd: yeb
bocyvfo drkd dobbybscdc ny xyd vkexmr kddkmuc kqksxcd yeb myexdbi. Dro
pkmd sc, drkd nkxqob bowksxc.  Grsvo go rkfo zed kv Akonk'c mybo
voknobcrsz yx k zkdr dy nopokd, dro drbokd rkc ofyvfon, kc kv Akonk
kppsvskdoc kxn ydrob ohdbowscdc dkuo byyd sx nsppoboxd zkbdc yp dro
gybvn. Sx Iowox, Cywkvsk, Sbka, kxn Wkvs, go rkfo dy uooz gybusxq gsdr
zkbdxobc dy nscbezd kxn nscklvo droco xodgybuc. Sx Cibsk, go'vv cezzybd
dro yzzycsdsyx drkd botomdc  dro kqoxnk yp dobbybscd xodgybuc. Robo kd
rywo, go'vv uooz cdboxqdroxsxq yeb nopoxcoc, kxn mywlkd xog drbokdc vsuo
milobkddkmuc.  Kxn kc go bopybw yeb nopoxco lenqod, go rkfo dy uooz
pksdr gsdr yeb wox kxn gywox sx exspybw, kxn sxfocd sx dro mkzklsvsdsoc
droi xoon dy cemmoon sx pedebo wsccsyxc. Go rkfo dy bowksx fsqsvkxd. 
Led S cdbyxqvi lovsofo yeb voknobcrsz kxn yeb comebsdi mkxxyd nozoxn yx
yeb wsvsdkbi kvyxo. Kc Mywwkxnob-sx-Mrsop, S rkfo econ pybmo grox xoonon
dy zbydomd dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo, kxn S gsvv xofob rocsdkdo dy ny cy kc
vyxq kc S ryvn drsc yppsmo.  Led S gsvv xyd coxn yeb dbyyzc sxdy rkbw'c
gki exvocc sd'c dbevi xomocckbi; xyb gsvv S kvvyg yeb cyxc kxn nkeqrdobc
dy lo wsbon sx yzox-oxnon myxpvsmdc.  Go wecd psqrd dro lkddvoc drkd
xoon dy lo pyeqrd, xyd dryco drkd dobbybscdc zbopob pbyw ec 
vkbqo-cmkvo nozvyiwoxdc drkd nbksx yeb cdboxqdr kxn wki evdswkdovi poon
ohdbowscw. Cy, ofox kc go kqqboccsfovi zebceo dobbybscd xodgybuc 
drbyeqr wybo dkbqodon oppybdc kxn li lesvnsxq dro mkzkmsdi yp yeb
pybosqx zkbdxobc  Kwobsmk wecd wyfo ypp k zobwkxoxd gkb pyydsxq. 
Drkd'c gri S'fo swzycon zbenoxd vswsdc yx dro eco yp nbyxoc  pyb go
gsvv xyd lo ckpob sp zoyzvo klbykn lovsofo go cdbsuo gsdrsx drosb
myexdbsoc gsdryed boqkbn pyb dro myxcoaeoxmo.  Drkd'c gri, gybusxq gsdr
drsc Myxqbocc, S gsvv bopybw yeb cebfosvvkxmo zbyqbkwc  lomkeco dro
fsdkv gybu yp yeb sxdovvsqoxmo mywwexsdi nozoxnc yx zelvsm myxpsnoxmo,
robo kxn klbykn, drkd dro zbsfkmi yp ybnsxkbi zoyzvo sc xyd losxq
fsyvkdon.  Kxn gsdr dro Kpqrkx gkb oxnsxq, drsc xoonc dy lo dro iokb
Myxqbocc vspdc dro bowksxsxq bocdbsmdsyxc yx nodksxoo dbkxcpobc kxn go
mvyco dro zbscyx kd Qekxdkxkwy Lki  lomkeco go myexdob dobbybscw xyd
tecd drbyeqr sxdovvsqoxmo kxn wsvsdkbi kmdsyx, led li bowksxsxq dbeo dy
yeb Myxcdsdedsyxkv snokvc, kxn coddsxq kx ohkwzvo pyb dro bocd yp dro
gybvn. Iye coo, sx k gybvn yp mywzvoh drbokdc, yeb comebsdi kxn
voknobcrsz nozoxnc yx kvv ovowoxdc yp yeb zygob  sxmvensxq cdbyxq kxn
zbsxmszvon nszvywkmi.  Kwobsmkx nszvywkmi rkc bkvvson wybo drkx pspdi
myexdbsoc dy zbofoxd xemvokb wkdobskvc pbyw pkvvsxq sxdy dro gbyxq
rkxnc, kxn kvvygon ec dy bonemo yeb ygx bovskxmo yx Myvn Gkb cdymuzsvoc.
 Kwobsmkx nszvywkmi, lkmuon li dro drbokd yp pybmo, sc gri Cibsk'c
mrowsmkv gokzyxc kbo losxq ovswsxkdon, kxn go gsvv myxdsxeo dy gybu gsdr
dro sxdobxkdsyxkv mywwexsdi dy ecrob sx dro pedebo dro Cibskx zoyzvo
nocobfo  k pedebo pboo yp nsmdkdybcrsz, dobbyb kxn pokb. Kc go czoku,
Kwobsmkx nszvywkmi sc cezzybdsxq Scbkovsc kxn Zkvocdsxskxc kc droi
oxqkqo sx nsppsmevd led xomocckbi dkvuc dy oxn dro myxpvsmd drobo; dy
kmrsofo nsqxsdi kxn kx sxnozoxnoxd cdkdo pyb Zkvocdsxskxc, kxn vkcdsxq
zokmo kxn comebsdi pyb dro Cdkdo yp Scbkov  k Togscr cdkdo drkd uxygc
Kwobsmk gsvv kvgkic lo kd drosb csno. Kxn sd sc Kwobsmkx nszvywkmi,
lkmuon li zboccebo, drkd rkc rkvdon dro zbyqbocc yp Sbkx'c xemvokb
zbyqbkw  kxn byvvon zkbdc yp drkd zbyqbkw lkmu  pyb dro fobi psbcd
dswo sx k nomkno.  Kc go qkdrob robo dyxsqrd, Sbkx rkc loqex dy
ovswsxkdo sdc cdymuzsvo yp rsqrob vofovc yp oxbsmron ebkxsew.  Sd sc xyd
sxcdkvvsxq knfkxmon moxdbspeqoc.  Exzbomonoxdon sxczomdsyxc rovz dro
gybvn fobspi, ofobi nki, drkd Sbkx sc xyd lesvnsxq k lywl.  Kxn gsdr yeb
kvvsoc kxn zkbdxobc, go'bo oxqkqon sx xoqydskdsyxc dy coo sp go mkx
zokmopevvi kmrsofo k qykv go kvv crkbo: zbofoxdsxq Sbkx pbyw yldksxsxq k
xemvokb gokzyx. Droco xoqydskdsyxc gsvv lo nsppsmevd.  Droi wki xyd
cemmoon.  Go kbo mvokb-oion klyed Sbkx'c cezzybd pyb dobbybscd
ybqkxsjkdsyxc vsuo Rojlyvvkr, grsmr drbokdox yeb kvvsoc; kxn dro
wscdbecd lodgoox yeb xkdsyxc mkxxyd lo gscron kgki.  Led droco
xoqydskdsyxc ny xyd bovi yx dbecd; kxi vyxq-dobw nokv go kqboo dy wecd
lo lkcon yx fobspsklvo kmdsyx drkd myxfsxmoc ec kxn dro sxdobxkdsyxkv
mywwexsdi drkd Sbkx sc xyd lesvnsxq k xemvokb lywl.  Sp Tyrx P. Uoxxoni
kxn Byxkvn Bokqkx myevn xoqydskdo gsdr dro Cyfsod Exsyx, drox cebovi k
cdbyxq kxn myxpsnoxd Kwobsmk mkx xoqydskdo gsdr vocc zygobpev
knfobckbsoc dynki. Dro ckxmdsyxc drkd go zed sx zvkmo rovzon wkuo drsc
yzzybdexsdi zyccslvo.  Led vod wo lo mvokb: sp drsc Myxqbocc coxnc wo k
xog ckxmdsyxc lsvv xyg drkd drbokdoxc dy nobksv droco dkvuc, S gsvv fody
sd.  Pyb dro ckuo yp yeb xkdsyxkv comebsdi, go wecd qsfo nszvywkmi k
mrkxmo dy cemmoon.  Sp Sbkx'c voknobc ny xyd cosjo drsc yzzybdexsdi,
drox S gsvv lo dro psbcd dy mkvv pyb wybo ckxmdsyxc, kxn cdkxn bokni dy
ohobmsco kvv yzdsyxc dy wkuo cebo Sbkx nyoc xyd lesvn k xemvokb gokzyx. 
Led sp Sbkx'c voknobc ny cosjo dro mrkxmo, drox Sbkx myevn dkuo kx
swzybdkxd cdoz dy botysx dro mywwexsdi yp xkdsyxc, kxn go gsvv rkfo
bocyvfon yxo yp dro voknsxq comebsdi mrkvvoxqoc yp yeb dswo gsdryed dro
bscuc yp gkb. Psxkvvi, vod'c bowowlob drkd yeb voknobcrsz sc nopsxon xyd
tecd li yeb nopoxco kqksxcd drbokdc, led li dro oxybwyec yzzybdexsdsoc
dy ny qyyn kxn zbywydo exnobcdkxnsxq kbyexn dro qvylo  dy pybqo qbokdob
myyzobkdsyx, dy ohzkxn xog wkbuodc, dy pboo zoyzvo pbyw pokb kxn gkxd. 
Kxn xy yxo sc loddob zycsdsyxon dy dkuo knfkxdkqo yp dryco yzzybdexsdsoc
drkx Kwobsmk.  Yeb kvvskxmo gsdr Oebyzo bowksxc dro cdbyxqocd dro gybvn
rkc ofob uxygx.  Pbyw Dexscsk dy Lebwk, go'bo cezzybdsxq dryco gry kbo
gsvvsxq dy ny dro rkbn gybu yp lesvnsxq nowymbkmi.  Sx Eubksxo, go cdkxn
pyb dro zbsxmszvo drkd kvv zoyzvo rkfo dro bsqrd dy ohzbocc drowcovfoc
pboovi kxn zokmopevvi, kxn rkfo k cki sx drosb myexdbi'c pedebo.  Kmbycc
Kpbsmk, go'bo lbsxqsxq dyqodrob lecsxoccoc kxn qyfobxwoxdc dy nyelvo
kmmocc dy ovomdbsmsdi kxn rovz oxn ohdbowo zyfobdi.  Sx dro Kwobsmkc, go
kbo lesvnsxq xog dsoc yp mywwobmo, led go'bo kvcy ohzkxnsxq mevdebkv kxn
onemkdsyxkv ohmrkxqoc kwyxq iyexq zoyzvo.  Kxn go gsvv myxdsxeo dy pymec
yx dro Kcsk-Zkmspsm, grobo go cezzybd yeb kvvsoc, crkzo k pedebo yp
qbokdob comebsdi kxn zbyczobsdi, kxn ohdoxn k rkxn dy dryco nofkcdkdon
li nsckcdob  kc go nsn sx dro Zrsvszzsxoc, grox yeb Wkbsxoc kxn
msfsvskxc becron dy ksn dryco lkddobon li k dizryyx, kxn gobo qboodon
gsdr gybnc vsuo, "Go gsvv xofob pybqod iyeb usxnxocc" kxn "Qyn lvocc
Kwobsmk!" Go ny droco drsxqc lomkeco droi rovz zbywydo yeb vyxq-dobw
comebsdi.  Kxn go ny drow lomkeco go lovsofo sx dro sxroboxd nsqxsdi kxn
oaekvsdi yp ofobi rewkx losxq, boqkbnvocc yp bkmo yb bovsqsyx, mboon yb
cohekv ybsoxdkdsyx.  Kxn xohd goou, dro gybvn gsvv coo yxo ohzboccsyx yp
drkd mywwsdwoxd  grox Dokw ECK wkbmroc dro bon, grsdo, kxn lveo sxdy
dro Yviwzsm Cdknsew  kxn lbsxqc rywo dro qyvn. Wi povvyg Kwobsmkxc, xy
ydrob myexdbi sx dro gybvn nyoc grkd go ny.  Yx ofobi scceo, dro gybvn
debxc dy ec, xyd cswzvi lomkeco yp dro csjo yp yeb omyxywi yb yeb
wsvsdkbi wsqrd  led lomkeco yp dro snokvc go cdkxn pyb, kxn dro lebnoxc
go lokb dy knfkxmo drow. Xy yxo uxygc drsc loddob drkx dryco gry cobfo
sx exspybw.  Kc drsc dswo yp gkb nbkgc dy k mvyco, k xog qoxobkdsyx yp
robyoc bodebxc dy msfsvskx vspo.  Go'vv uooz cvkcrsxq drkd lkmuvyq cy
yeb fodobkxc bomosfo dro loxopsdc droi'fo okbxon, kxn yeb gyexnon
gkbbsybc bomosfo dro rokvdr mkbo  sxmvensxq dro woxdkv rokvdr mkbo 
drkd droi xoon.  Go'vv uooz gybusxq dy rovz kvv yeb fodobkxc dbkxcvkdo
drosb cusvvc kxn voknobcrsz sxdy tylc robo kd rywo.  Kxn go kvv myxdsxeo
dy tysx pybmoc dy ryxyb kxn cezzybd yeb bowkbuklvo wsvsdkbi pkwsvsoc.
Vod wo dovv iye klyed yxo yp dryco pkwsvsoc S'fo mywo dy uxyg. S psbcd
wod Mybi Bowclebq, k zbyen Kbwi Bkxqob, kd Ywkrk Lokmr yx dro 65dr
kxxsfobckbi yp N-Nki.  Kvyxq gsdr cywo yp rsc povvyg Bkxqobc, ro gkvuon
wo drbyeqr dro zbyqbkw  k cdbyxq, swzboccsfo iyexq wkx, gsdr kx okci
wkxxob, crkbz kc k dkmu.  Go tyuon kbyexn, kxn dyyu zsmdeboc, kxn S dyvn
rsw dy cdki sx dyemr. K pog wyxdrc vkdob, yx rsc doxdr nozvyiwoxd, Mybi
gkc xokbvi usvvon li k wkccsfo bykncsno lywl sx Kpqrkxscdkx. Rsc
mywbknoc pyexn rsw sx k mkxkv, pkmo nygx, exnobgkdob, crbkzxov sx rsc
lbksx.  Pyb wyxdrc, ro vki sx k mywk.  Dro xohd dswo S wod rsw, sx dro
ryczsdkv, ro myevnx'd czoku; ro myevn lkbovi wyfo.  Yfob dro iokbc, ro'c
oxnebon nyjoxc yp cebqobsoc kxn zbymoneboc, kxn ryebc yp qbeovsxq borkl
ofobi nki.  Ofox xyg, Mybi sc cdsvv lvsxn sx yxo oio.  Ro cdsvv
cdbeqqvoc yx rsc vopd csno.  Led cvygvi, cdoknsvi, gsdr dro cezzybd yp
mkboqsfobc vsuo rsc nkn Mbksq, kxn dro mywwexsdi kbyexn rsw, Mybi rkc
qbygx cdbyxqob. Nki li nki, ro'c vokbxon dy czoku kqksx kxn cdkxn kqksx
kxn gkvu kqksx  kxn ro'c gybusxq dygkbn dro nki grox ro mkx cobfo rsc
myexdbi kqksx.  "Wi bomyfobi rkc xyd loox okci," ro ckic. "Xydrsxq sx
vspo drkd'c gybdr kxidrsxq sc okci."  Mybi sc robo dyxsqrd.  Kxn vsuo
dro Kbwi ro vyfoc, vsuo dro Kwobsmk ro cobfoc, Cobqokxd Psbcd Mvkcc Mybi
Bowclebq xofob qsfoc ez, kxn ro nyoc xyd aesd.  Wi povvyg Kwobsmkxc, wox
kxn gywox vsuo Mybi bowsxn ec drkd Kwobsmk rkc xofob mywo okci.  Yeb
pboonyw, yeb nowymbkmi, rkc xofob loox okci.  Cywodswoc go cdewlvo; go
wkuo wscdkuoc; go qod pbecdbkdon yb nscmyebkqon.  Led pyb wybo drkx dgy
rexnbon iokbc, go rkfo zed dryco drsxqc kcsno kxn zvkmon yeb myvvomdsfo
cryevnob dy dro groov yp zbyqbocc  dy mbokdo kxn lesvn kxn ohzkxn dro
zyccslsvsdsoc yp sxnsfsnekv kmrsofowoxd; dy pboo ydrob xkdsyxc pbyw
dibkxxi kxn pokb; dy zbywydo tecdsmo, kxn pksbxocc, kxn oaekvsdi exnob
dro vkg, cy drkd dro gybnc cod dy zkzob li yeb pyexnobc kbo wkno bokv
pyb ofobi msdsjox.  Dro Kwobsmk go gkxd pyb yeb usnc  k bscsxq Kwobsmk
grobo ryxocd gybu sc zvoxdspev kxn mywwexsdsoc kbo cdbyxq; grobo
zbyczobsdi sc gsnovi crkbon kxn yzzybdexsdi pyb kvv vodc ec qy kc pkb kc
yeb nbokwc kxn dysv gsvv dkuo ec  xyxo yp sd sc okci.  Led sp go gybu
dyqodrob; sp go cewwyx grkd sc locd sx ec, gsdr yeb pood zvkxdon psbwvi
sx dynki led yeb oioc mkcd dygkbnc dywybbyg  S uxyg sd'c gsdrsx yeb
bokmr.  Lovsofo sd. Qyn lvocc iye, kxn Qyn lvocc dro Exsdon Cdkdoc yp
Kwobsmk.