Hvyvhz Nkzvfzm, Hm. Qdxz Kmzndyzio, Hzhwzmn ja Xjibmznn, viy ocz Admno Gvyt ja
ocz Pidozy Novozn:

D'qz xjhz czmz ojidbco ijo jigt oj vyymznn ocz ydnodibpdnczy hzi viy rjhzi di
ocdn bmzvo xcvhwzm, wpo oj nkzvf amvifgt viy ydmzxogt oj ocz hzi viy rjhzi rcj
nzio pn czmz.

D fijr ocvo ajm hvit Vhzmdxvin rvoxcdib mdbco ijr, ocz novoz ja jpm zxjijht dn
v xjixzmi ocvo mdnzn vwjqz vgg joczmn.  Viy mdbcogt nj.  Da tjp cvqzi'o wzzi
kzmnjivggt vaazxozy wt ocdn mzxznndji, tjp kmjwvwgt fijr njhzjiz rcj cvn -- v
amdziy; v izdbcwjm; v hzhwzm ja tjpm avhdgt.  Tjp yji'o izzy oj czvm vijoczm
gdno ja novodnodxn oj fijr ocvo jpm zxjijht dn di xmdndn, wzxvpnz tjp gdqz do
zqzmt yvt.  Do'n ocz rjmmt tjp rvfz pk rdoc viy ocz njpmxz ja ngzzkgznn
idbcon.  Do'n ocz ejw tjp ocjpbco tjp'y mzodmz amjh wpo ijr cvqz gjno; ocz
wpndiznn tjp wpdgo tjpm ymzvhn pkji ocvo'n ijr cvibdib wt v ocmzvy; ocz
xjggzbz vxxzkovixz gzoozm tjpm xcdgy cvy oj kpo wvxf di ocz ziqzgjkz.  Ocz
dhkvxo ja ocdn mzxznndji dn mzvg, viy do dn zqzmtrczmz.

Wpo rcdgz jpm zxjijht hvt wz rzvfzizy viy jpm xjiadyzixz ncvfzi; ocjpbc rz vmz
gdqdib ocmjpbc ydaadxpgo viy pixzmovdi odhzn, ojidbco D rvio zqzmt Vhzmdxvi oj
fijr ocdn:

Rz rdgg mzwpdgy, rz rdgg mzxjqzm, viy ocz Pidozy Novozn ja Vhzmdxv rdgg zhzmbz
nomjibzm ocvi wzajmz.

Ocz rzdbco ja ocdn xmdndn rdgg ijo yzozmhdiz ocz yznodit ja ocdn ivodji.  Ocz
vinrzmn oj jpm kmjwgzhn yji'o gdz wztjiy jpm mzvxc.  Oczt zsdno di jpm
gvwjmvojmdzn viy pidqzmndodzn; di jpm adzgyn viy jpm avxojmdzn; di ocz
dhvbdivodjin ja jpm ziomzkmzizpmn viy ocz kmdyz ja ocz cvmyzno-rjmfdib kzjkgz
ji Zvmoc.  Ocjnz lpvgdodzn ocvo cvqz hvyz Vhzmdxv ocz bmzvozno ajmxz ja
kmjbmznn viy kmjnkzmdot di cphvi cdnojmt rz nodgg kjnnznn di vhkgz hzvnpmz. 
Rcvo dn mzlpdmzy ijr dn ajm ocdn xjpiomt oj kpgg ojbzoczm, xjiamjio wjgygt ocz
xcvggzibzn rz avxz, viy ovfz mznkjindwdgdot ajm jpm apopmz jixz hjmz.

Ijr, da rz'mz cjizno rdoc jpmnzgqzn, rz'gg vyhdo ocvo ajm ojj gjib, rz cvqz
ijo vgrvtn hzo ocznz mznkjindwdgdodzn -- vn v bjqzmihzio jm vn v kzjkgz.  D
nvt ocdn ijo oj gvt wgvhz jm gjjf wvxfrvmyn, wpo wzxvpnz do dn jigt wt
piyzmnoviydib cjr rz vmmdqzy vo ocdn hjhzio ocvo rz'gg wz vwgz oj gdao
jpmnzgqzn jpo ja ocdn kmzydxvhzio.

Ocz avxo dn, jpm zxjijht ydy ijo avgg dioj yzxgdiz jqzmidbco.  Ijm ydy vgg ja
jpm kmjwgzhn wzbdi rczi ocz cjpndib hvmfzo xjggvknzy jm ocz nojxf hvmfzo nvif.
 Rz cvqz fijri ajm yzxvyzn ocvo jpm npmqdqvg yzkziyn ji adiydib izr njpmxzn ja
zizmbt.  Tzo rz dhkjmo hjmz jdg ojyvt ocvi zqzm wzajmz.  Ocz xjno ja czvgoc
xvmz zvon pk hjmz viy hjmz ja jpm nvqdibn zvxc tzvm, tzo rz fzzk yzgvtdib
mzajmh.  Jpm xcdgymzi rdgg xjhkzoz ajm ejwn di v bgjwvg zxjijht ocvo ojj hvit
ja jpm nxcjjgn yj ijo kmzkvmz oczh ajm.  Viy ocjpbc vgg ocznz xcvggzibzn rzio
pinjgqzy, rz nodgg hvivbzy oj nkziy hjmz hjizt viy kdgz pk hjmz yzwo, wjoc vn
diydqdypvgn viy ocmjpbc jpm bjqzmihzio, ocvi zqzm wzajmz.

Di joczm rjmyn, rz cvqz gdqzy ocmjpbc vi zmv rczmz ojj jaozi, ncjmo-ozmh bvdin
rzmz kmduzy jqzm gjib-ozmh kmjnkzmdot; rczmz rz avdgzy oj gjjf wztjiy ocz izso
kvthzio, ocz izso lpvmozm, jm ocz izso zgzxodji.  V npmkgpn wzxvhz vi zsxpnz
oj omvinazm rzvgoc oj ocz rzvgoct dinozvy ja vi jkkjmopidot oj diqzno di jpm
apopmz.  Mzbpgvodjin rzmz bpoozy ajm ocz nvfz ja v lpdxf kmjado vo ocz zskzinz
ja v czvgoct hvmfzo.  Kzjkgz wjpbco cjhzn oczt fizr oczt xjpgyi'o vaajmy amjh
wvifn viy gziyzmn rcj kpnczy ocjnz wvy gjvin vitrvt.  Viy vgg ocz rcdgz,
xmdodxvg yzwvozn viy ydaadxpgo yzxdndjin rzmz kpo jaa ajm njhz joczm odhz ji
njhz joczm yvt.

Rzgg ocvo yvt ja mzxfjidib cvn vmmdqzy, viy ocz odhz oj ovfz xcvmbz ja jpm
apopmz dn czmz.

Ijr dn ocz odhz oj vxo wjgygt viy rdnzgt -- oj ijo jigt mzqdqz ocdn zxjijht,
wpo oj wpdgy v izr ajpiyvodji ajm gvnodib kmjnkzmdot.  Ijr dn ocz odhz oj
ephknovmo ejw xmzvodji, mz-novmo gziydib, viy diqzno di vmzvn gdfz zizmbt,
czvgoc xvmz, viy zypxvodji ocvo rdgg bmjr jpm zxjijht, zqzi vn rz hvfz cvmy
xcjdxzn oj wmdib jpm yzadxdo yjri.  Ocvo dn rcvo ht zxjijhdx vbziyv dn
yzndbizy oj yj, viy ocvo'n rcvo D'y gdfz oj ovgf oj tjp vwjpo ojidbco.

Do'n vi vbziyv ocvo wzbdin rdoc ejwn.

Vn njji vn D ojjf jaadxz, D vnfzy ocdn Xjibmznn oj nziy hz v mzxjqzmt kgvi wt
Kmzndyzio'n Yvt ocvo rjpgy kpo kzjkgz wvxf oj rjmf viy kpo hjizt di oczdm
kjxfzon.  Ijo wzxvpnz D wzgdzqz di wdbbzm bjqzmihzio -- D yji'o.  Ijo wzxvpnz
D'h ijo hdiyapg ja ocz hvnndqz yzwo rz'qz diczmdozy -- D vh.  D xvggzy ajm
vxodji wzxvpnz ocz avdgpmz oj yj nj rjpgy cvqz xjno hjmz ejwn viy xvpnzy hjmz
cvmyncdkn.  Di avxo, v avdgpmz oj vxo rjpgy cvqz rjmnzizy jpm gjib-ozmh
yzadxdo wt vnnpmdib rzvf zxjijhdx bmjroc ajm tzvmn.  Ocvo'n rct D kpnczy ajm
lpdxf vxodji.  Viy ojidbco, D vh bmvozapg ocvo ocdn Xjibmznn yzgdqzmzy, viy
kgzvnzy oj nvt ocvo ocz Vhzmdxvi Mzxjqzmt viy Mzdiqznohzio Vxo dn ijr gvr.

Jqzm ocz izso orj tzvmn, ocdn kgvi rdgg nvqz jm xmzvoz 3.5 hdggdji ejwn.  Hjmz
ocvi 90% ja ocznz ejwn rdgg wz di ocz kmdqvoz nzxojm -- ejwn mzwpdgydib jpm
mjvyn viy wmdybzn; xjinompxodib rdiy opmwdizn viy njgvm kvizgn; gvtdib
wmjvywviy viy zskviydib hvnn omvindo.

Wzxvpnz ja ocdn kgvi, oczmz vmz ozvxczmn rcj xvi ijr fzzk oczdm ejwn viy
zypxvoz jpm fdyn.  Czvgoc xvmz kmjaznndjivgn xvi xjiodipz xvmdib ajm jpm ndxf.
 Oczmz vmz 57 kjgdxz jaadxzmn rcj vmz nodgg ji ocz nomzzon ja Hdiizvkjgdn
ojidbco wzxvpnz ocdn kgvi kmzqziozy ocz gvtjaan oczdm yzkvmohzio rvn vwjpo oj
hvfz.

Wzxvpnz ja ocdn kgvi, 95% ja ocz rjmfdib cjpnzcjgyn di Vhzmdxv rdgg mzxzdqz v
ovs xpo -- v ovs xpo ocvo tjp rdgg nzz di tjpm kvtxczxfn wzbdiidib ji Vkmdg
1no.

Wzxvpnz ja ocdn kgvi, avhdgdzn rcj vmz nompbbgdib oj kvt opdodji xjnon rdgg
mzxzdqz v $2,500 ovs xmzydo ajm vgg ajpm tzvmn ja xjggzbz.  Viy Vhzmdxvin rcj
cvqz gjno oczdm ejwn di ocdn mzxznndji rdgg wz vwgz oj mzxzdqz zsoziyzy
pizhkgjthzio wzizadon viy xjiodipzy czvgoc xvmz xjqzmvbz oj czgk oczh rzvoczm
ocdn nojmh.

D fijr oczmz vmz njhz di ocdn xcvhwzm viy rvoxcdib vo cjhz rcj vmz nfzkodxvg
ja rczoczm ocdn kgvi rdgg rjmf.  D piyzmnoviy ocvo nfzkodxdnh.  Czmz di
Rvncdiboji, rz'qz vgg nzzi cjr lpdxfgt bjjy dioziodjin xvi opmi dioj wmjfzi
kmjhdnzn viy rvnozapg nkziydib.  Viy rdoc v kgvi ja ocdn nxvgz xjhzn zijmhjpn
mznkjindwdgdot oj bzo do mdbco.

Ocvo dn rct D cvqz vnfzy Qdxz Kmzndyzio Wdyzi oj gzvy v ojpbc, pikmzxzyziozy
jqzmndbco zaajmo -- wzxvpnz ijwjyt hznnzn rdoc Ejz.  D cvqz ojgy zvxc hzhwzm
ja ht Xvwdizo vn rzgg vn hvtjmn viy bjqzmijmn vxmjnn ocz xjpiomt ocvo oczt
rdgg wz czgy vxxjpiovwgz wt hz viy ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz ajm zqzmt yjggvm oczt
nkziy.  D cvqz vkkjdiozy v kmjqzi viy vbbmznndqz Dinkzxojm Bzizmvg oj azmmzo
jpo vit viy vgg xvnzn ja rvnoz viy amvpy.  Viy rz cvqz xmzvozy v izr rzwndoz
xvggzy mzxjqzmt.bjq nj ocvo zqzmt Vhzmdxvi xvi adiy jpo cjr viy rczmz oczdm
hjizt dn wzdib nkzio.

Nj ocz mzxjqzmt kgvi rz kvnnzy dn ocz admno nozk di bzoodib jpm zxjijht wvxf
ji omvxf.  Wpo do dn epno ocz admno nozk.  Wzxvpnz zqzi da rz hvivbz ocdn kgvi
agvrgznngt, oczmz rdgg wz ij mzvg mzxjqzmt pigznn rz xgzvi pk ocz xmzydo
xmdndn ocvo cvn nzqzmzgt rzvfzizy jpm adivixdvg ntnozh.

D rvio oj nkzvf kgvdigt viy xviydygt vwjpo ocdn dnnpz ojidbco, wzxvpnz zqzmt
Vhzmdxvi ncjpgy fijr ocvo do ydmzxogt vaazxon tjp viy tjpm avhdgt'n
rzgg-wzdib.  Tjp ncjpgy vgnj fijr ocvo ocz hjizt tjp'qz yzkjndozy di wvifn
vxmjnn ocz xjpiomt dn nvaz; tjpm dinpmvixz dn nzxpmz; viy tjp xvi mzgt ji ocz
xjiodipzy jkzmvodji ja jpm adivixdvg ntnozh.  Ocvo dn ijo ocz njpmxz ja
xjixzmi.

Ocz xjixzmi dn ocvo da rz yj ijo mz-novmo gziydib di ocdn xjpiomt, jpm
mzxjqzmt rdgg wz xcjfzy jaa wzajmz do zqzi wzbdin.

Tjp nzz, ocz agjr ja xmzydo dn ocz gdazwgjjy ja jpm zxjijht.  Ocz vwdgdot oj
bzo v gjvi dn cjr tjp adivixz ocz kpmxcvnz ja zqzmtocdib amjh v cjhz oj v xvm
oj v xjggzbz zypxvodji; cjr nojmzn nojxf oczdm nczgqzn, avmhn wpt zlpdkhzio,
viy wpndiznnzn hvfz kvtmjgg.

Wpo xmzydo cvn nojkkzy agjrdib ocz rvt do ncjpgy.  Ojj hvit wvy gjvin amjh ocz
cjpndib xmdndn cvqz hvyz oczdm rvt jioj ocz wjjfn ja ojj hvit wvifn.  Rdoc nj
hpxc yzwo viy nj gdoogz xjiadyzixz, ocznz wvifn vmz ijr azvmapg ja gziydib jpo
vit hjmz hjizt oj cjpnzcjgyn, oj wpndiznnzn, jm oj zvxc joczm.  Rczi oczmz dn
ij gziydib, avhdgdzn xvi'o vaajmy oj wpt cjhzn jm xvmn.  Nj wpndiznnzn vmz
ajmxzy oj hvfz gvtjaan.  Jpm zxjijht npaazmn zqzi hjmz, viy xmzydo ymdzn pk
zqzi apmoczm.

Ocvo dn rct ocdn vyhdidnomvodji dn hjqdib nrdaogt viy vbbmznndqzgt oj wmzvf
ocdn yznompxodqz xtxgz, mznojmz xjiadyzixz, viy mz-novmo gziydib.

Rz rdgg yj nj di nzqzmvg rvtn.  Admno, rz vmz xmzvodib v izr gziydib apiy ocvo
mzkmznzion ocz gvmbzno zaajmo zqzm oj czgk kmjqdyz vpoj gjvin, xjggzbz gjvin,
viy nhvgg wpndiznn gjvin oj ocz xjinphzmn viy ziomzkmzizpmn rcj fzzk ocdn
zxjijht mpiidib.

Nzxjiy, rz cvqz gvpixczy v cjpndib kgvi ocvo rdgg czgk mznkjindwgz avhdgdzn
avxdib ocz ocmzvo ja ajmzxgjnpmz gjrzm oczdm hjiocgt kvthzion viy mz-adivixz
oczdm hjmobvbzn.  Do'n v kgvi ocvo rji'o czgk nkzxpgvojmn jm ocvo izdbcwjm
yjri ocz nomzzo rcj wjpbco v cjpnz cz xjpgy izqzm cjkz oj vaajmy, wpo do rdgg
czgk hdggdjin ja Vhzmdxvin rcj vmz nompbbgdib rdoc yzxgdidib cjhz qvgpzn --
Vhzmdxvin rcj rdgg ijr wz vwgz oj ovfz vyqviovbz ja ocz gjrzm diozmzno mvozn
ocvo ocdn kgvi cvn vgmzvyt czgkzy wmdib vwjpo.  Di avxo, ocz vqzmvbz avhdgt
rcj mz-adivixzn ojyvt xvi nvqz izvmgt $2000 kzm tzvm ji oczdm hjmobvbz.

Ocdmy, rz rdgg vxo rdoc ocz apgg ajmxz ja ocz azyzmvg bjqzmihzio oj zinpmz
ocvo ocz hvejm wvifn ocvo Vhzmdxvin yzkziy ji cvqz zijpbc xjiadyzixz viy
zijpbc hjizt oj gziy zqzi di hjmz ydaadxpgo odhzn.  Viy rczi rz gzvmi ocvo v
hvejm wvif cvn nzmdjpn kmjwgzhn, rz rdgg cjgy vxxjpiovwgz ocjnz mznkjindwgz,
ajmxz ocz izxznnvmt vyepnohzion, kmjqdyz ocz npkkjmo oj xgzvi pk oczdm wvgvixz
nczzon, viy vnnpmz ocz xjiodipdot ja v nomjib, qdvwgz dinodopodji ocvo xvi
nzmqz jpm kzjkgz viy jpm zxjijht.

D piyzmnoviy ocvo ji vit bdqzi yvt, Rvgg Nomzzo hvt wz hjmz xjhajmozy wt vi
vkkmjvxc ocvo bdqzn wvifn wvdgjpon rdoc ij nomdibn voovxczy, viy ocvo cjgyn
ijwjyt vxxjpiovwgz ajm oczdm mzxfgznn yzxdndjin.  Wpo npxc vi vkkmjvxc rji'o
njgqz ocz kmjwgzh.  Viy jpm bjvg dn oj lpdxfzi ocz yvt rczi rz mz-novmo
gziydib oj ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz viy Vhzmdxvi wpndiznn viy ziy ocdn xmdndn jixz
viy ajm vgg.

D dioziy oj cjgy ocznz wvifn apggt vxxjpiovwgz ajm ocz vnndnovixz oczt
mzxzdqz, viy ocdn odhz, oczt rdgg cvqz oj xgzvmgt yzhjinomvoz cjr ovskvtzm
yjggvmn mznpgo di hjmz gziydib ajm ocz Vhzmdxvi ovskvtzm.  Ocdn odhz, XZJn
rji'o wz vwgz oj pnz ovskvtzm hjizt oj kvy oczdm kvtxczxfn jm wpt avixt ymvkzn
jm ydnvkkzvm ji v kmdqvoz ezo.  Ocjnz yvtn vmz jqzm.

Nodgg, ocdn kgvi rdgg mzlpdmz ndbidadxvio mznjpmxzn amjh ocz azyzmvg
bjqzmihzio -- viy tzn, kmjwvwgt hjmz ocvi rz'qz vgmzvyt nzo vndyz.  Wpo rcdgz
ocz xjno ja vxodji rdgg wz bmzvo, D xvi vnnpmz tjp ocvo ocz xjno ja divxodji
rdgg wz avm bmzvozm, ajm do xjpgy mznpgo di vi zxjijht ocvo nkpoozmn vgjib ajm
ijo hjiocn jm tzvmn, wpo kzmcvkn v yzxvyz.  Ocvo rjpgy wz rjmnz ajm jpm
yzadxdo, rjmnz ajm wpndiznn, rjmnz ajm tjp, viy rjmnz ajm ocz izso bzizmvodji.
 Viy D mzapnz oj gzo ocvo cvkkzi.

D piyzmnoviy ocvo rczi ocz gvno vyhdidnomvodji vnfzy ocdn Xjibmznn oj kmjqdyz
vnndnovixz ajm nompbbgdib wvifn, Yzhjxmvon viy Mzkpwgdxvin vgdfz rzmz
diapmdvozy wt ocz hdnhvivbzhzio viy mznpgon ocvo ajggjrzy.  Nj rzmz ocz
Vhzmdxvi ovskvtzmn.  Nj rvn D.

Nj D fijr cjr pikjkpgvm do dn oj wz nzzi vn czgkdib wvifn mdbco ijr,
znkzxdvggt rczi zqzmtjiz dn npaazmdib di kvmo amjh oczdm wvy yzxdndjin.  D
kmjhdnz tjp -- D bzo do.

Wpo D vgnj fijr ocvo di v odhz ja xmdndn, rz xviijo vaajmy oj bjqzmi jpo ja
vibzm, jm tdzgy oj ocz kjgdodxn ja ocz hjhzio.  Ht ejw -- jpm ejw -- dn oj
njgqz ocz kmjwgzh.  Jpm ejw dn oj bjqzmi rdoc v nzinz ja mznkjindwdgdot.  D
rdgg ijo nkziy v ndibgz kziit ajm ocz kpmkjnz ja mzrvmydib v ndibgz Rvgg
Nomzzo zszxpodqz, wpo D rdgg yj rcvozqzm do ovfzn oj czgk ocz nhvgg wpndiznn
ocvo xvi'o kvt don rjmfzmn jm ocz avhdgt ocvo cvn nvqzy viy nodgg xvi'o bzo v
hjmobvbz.

Ocvo'n rcvo ocdn dn vwjpo.  Do'n ijo vwjpo czgkdib wvifn -- do'n vwjpo czgkdib
kzjkgz.  Wzxvpnz rczi xmzydo dn vqvdgvwgz vbvdi, ocvo tjpib avhdgt xvi adivggt
wpt v izr cjhz.  Viy oczi njhz xjhkvit rdgg cdmz rjmfzmn oj wpdgy do.  Viy
oczi ocjnz rjmfzmn rdgg cvqz hjizt oj nkziy, viy da oczt xvi bzo v gjvi ojj,
hvtwz oczt'gg adivggt wpt ocvo xvm, jm jkzi oczdm jri wpndiznn.  Diqznojmn
rdgg mzopmi oj ocz hvmfzo, viy Vhzmdxvi avhdgdzn rdgg nzz oczdm mzodmzhzio
nzxpmzy jixz hjmz.  Ngjrgt, wpo npmzgt, xjiadyzixz rdgg mzopmi, viy jpm
zxjijht rdgg mzxjqzm.

Nj D vnf ocdn Xjibmznn oj ejdi hz di yjdib rcvozqzm kmjqzn izxznnvmt.  Wzxvpnz
rz xviijo xjindbi jpm ivodji oj vi jkzi-ziyzy mzxznndji.  Viy oj zinpmz ocvo v
xmdndn ja ocdn hvbidopyz izqzm cvkkzin vbvdi, D vnf Xjibmznn oj hjqz lpdxfgt
ji gzbdngvodji ocvo rdgg adivggt mzajmh jpm jpoyvozy mzbpgvojmt ntnozh.  Do dn
odhz oj kpo di kgvxz ojpbc, izr xjhhji-nzinz mpgzn ja ocz mjvy nj ocvo jpm
adivixdvg hvmfzo mzrvmyn ymdqz viy diijqvodji, viy kpidnczn ncjmo-xpon viy
vwpnz.

Ocz mzxjqzmt kgvi viy ocz adivixdvg novwdgdot kgvi vmz ocz dhhzydvoz nozkn
rz'mz ovfdib oj mzqdqz jpm zxjijht di ocz ncjmo-ozmh.  Wpo ocz jigt rvt oj
apggt mznojmz Vhzmdxv'n zxjijhdx nomziboc dn oj hvfz ocz gjib-ozmh diqznohzion
ocvo rdgg gzvy oj izr ejwn, izr diypnomdzn, viy v mzizrzy vwdgdot oj xjhkzoz
rdoc ocz mzno ja ocz rjmgy. Ocz jigt rvt ocdn xziopmt rdgg wz vijoczm Vhzmdxvi
xziopmt dn da rz xjiamjio vo gvno ocz kmdxz ja jpm yzkziyzixz ji jdg viy ocz
cdbc xjno ja czvgoc xvmz; ocz nxcjjgn ocvo vmzi'o kmzkvmdib jpm xcdgymzi viy
ocz hjpiovdi ja yzwo oczt noviy oj diczmdo.  Ocvo dn jpm mznkjindwdgdot.

Di ocz izso azr yvtn, D rdgg npwhdo v wpybzo oj Xjibmznn.  Nj jaozi, rz cvqz
xjhz oj qdzr ocznz yjxphzion vn ndhkgt iphwzmn ji v kvbz jm gvpiymt gdnon ja
kmjbmvhn.  D nzz ocdn yjxphzio ydaazmziogt.  D nzz do vn v qdndji ajm Vhzmdxv
-- vn v wgpzkmdio ajm jpm apopmz.

Ht wpybzo yjzn ijo voozhko oj njgqz zqzmt kmjwgzh jm vyymznn zqzmt dnnpz.  Do
mzagzxon ocz novmf mzvgdot ja rcvo rz'qz diczmdozy -- v omdggdji yjggvm
yzadxdo, v adivixdvg xmdndn, viy v xjnogt mzxznndji.

Bdqzi ocznz mzvgdodzn, zqzmtjiz di ocdn xcvhwzm -- Yzhjxmvon viy Mzkpwgdxvin
-- rdgg cvqz oj nvxmdadxz njhz rjmoct kmdjmdodzn ajm rcdxc oczmz vmz ij
yjggvmn.  Viy ocvo dixgpyzn hz.

Wpo ocvo yjzn ijo hzvi rz xvi vaajmy oj dbijmz jpm gjib-ozmh xcvggzibzn.  D
mzezxo ocz qdzr ocvo nvtn jpm kmjwgzhn rdgg ndhkgt ovfz xvmz ja oczhnzgqzn;
ocvo nvtn bjqzmihzio cvn ij mjgz di gvtdib ocz ajpiyvodji ajm jpm xjhhji
kmjnkzmdot.

Ajm cdnojmt ozggn v ydaazmzio nojmt.  Cdnojmt mzhdiyn pn ocvo vo zqzmt hjhzio
ja zxjijhdx pkczvqvg viy omvinajmhvodji, ocdn ivodji cvn mznkjiyzy rdoc wjgy
vxodji viy wdb dyzvn.  Di ocz hdyno ja xdqdg rvm, rz gvdy mvdgmjvy omvxfn amjh
jiz xjvno oj vijoczm ocvo nkpmmzy xjhhzmxz viy diypnomt.  Amjh ocz opmhjdg ja
ocz Diypnomdvg Mzqjgpodji xvhz v ntnozh ja kpwgdx cdbc nxcjjgn ocvo kmzkvmzy
jpm xdoduzin ajm v izr vbz.  Di ocz rvfz ja rvm viy yzkmznndji, ocz BD Wdgg
nzio v bzizmvodji oj xjggzbz viy xmzvozy ocz gvmbzno hdyygz-xgvnn di cdnojmt. 
Viy v ordgdbco nompbbgz ajm amzzyjh gzy oj v ivodji ja cdbcrvtn, vi Vhzmdxvi
ji ocz hjji, viy vi zskgjndji ja ozxcijgjbt ocvo nodgg ncvkzn jpm rjmgy.

Di zvxc xvnz, bjqzmihzio ydyi'o npkkgvio kmdqvoz ziozmkmdnz; do xvovgtuzy
kmdqvoz ziozmkmdnz.  Do xmzvozy ocz xjiydodjin ajm ocjpnviyn ja ziomzkmzizpmn
viy izr wpndiznnzn oj vyvko viy oj ocmdqz.

Rz vmz v ivodji ocvo cvn nzzi kmjhdnz vhdy kzmdg, viy xgvdhzy jkkjmopidot amjh
jmyzvg.  Ijr rz hpno wz ocvo ivodji vbvdi.  Ocvo dn rct, zqzi vn do xpon wvxf
ji ocz kmjbmvhn rz yji'o izzy, ocz wpybzo D npwhdo rdgg diqzno di ocz ocmzz
vmzvn ocvo vmz vwnjgpozgt xmdodxvg oj jpm zxjijhdx apopmz:  zizmbt, czvgoc
xvmz, viy zypxvodji.

Do wzbdin rdoc zizmbt.

Rz fijr ocz xjpiomt ocvo cvmiznnzn ocz kjrzm ja xgzvi, mzizrvwgz zizmbt rdgg
gzvy ocz 21no xziopmt.  Viy tzo, do dn Xcdiv ocvo cvn gvpixczy ocz gvmbzno
zaajmo di cdnojmt oj hvfz oczdm zxjijht zizmbt zaadxdzio.  Rz diqziozy njgvm
ozxcijgjbt, wpo rz'qz avggzi wzcdiy xjpiomdzn gdfz Bzmhvit viy Evkvi di
kmjypxdib do.  Izr kgpb-di ctwmdyn mjgg jaa jpm vnnzhwgt gdizn, wpo oczt rdgg
mpi ji wvoozmdzn hvyz di Fjmzv.

Rzgg D yj ijo vxxzko v apopmz rczmz ocz ejwn viy diypnomdzn ja ojhjmmjr ovfz
mjjo wztjiy jpm wjmyzmn -- viy D fijr tjp yji'o zdoczm.  Do dn odhz ajm
Vhzmdxv oj gzvy vbvdi.

Ocvifn oj jpm mzxjqzmt kgvi, rz rdgg yjpwgz ocdn ivodji'n npkkgt ja mzizrvwgz
zizmbt di ocz izso ocmzz tzvmn.  Rz cvqz vgnj hvyz ocz gvmbzno diqznohzio di
wvndx mznzvmxc apiydib di Vhzmdxvi cdnojmt -- vi diqznohzio ocvo rdgg nkpm ijo
jigt izr ydnxjqzmdzn di zizmbt, wpo wmzvfocmjpbcn di hzydxdiz, nxdzixz, viy
ozxcijgjbt.

Rz rdgg njji gvt yjri ocjpnviyn ja hdgzn ja kjrzm gdizn ocvo xvi xvmmt izr
zizmbt oj xdodzn viy ojrin vxmjnn ocdn xjpiomt.  Viy rz rdgg kpo Vhzmdxvin oj
rjmf hvfdib jpm cjhzn viy wpdgydibn hjmz zaadxdzio nj ocvo rz xvi nvqz
wdggdjin ja yjggvmn ji jpm zizmbt wdggn.

Wpo oj ompgt omvinajmh jpm zxjijht, kmjozxo jpm nzxpmdot, viy nvqz jpm kgvizo
amjh ocz mvqvbzn ja xgdhvoz xcvibz, rz izzy oj pgodhvozgt hvfz xgzvi,
mzizrvwgz zizmbt ocz kmjadovwgz fdiy ja zizmbt.  Nj D vnf ocdn Xjibmznn oj
nziy hz gzbdngvodji ocvo kgvxzn v hvmfzo-wvnzy xvk ji xvmwji kjggpodji viy
ymdqzn ocz kmjypxodji ja hjmz mzizrvwgz zizmbt di Vhzmdxv.  Viy oj npkkjmo
ocvo diijqvodji, rz rdgg diqzno adaozzi wdggdji yjggvmn v tzvm oj yzqzgjk
ozxcijgjbdzn gdfz rdiy kjrzm viy njgvm kjrzm; vyqvixzy wdjapzgn, xgzvi xjvg,
viy hjmz apzg-zaadxdzio xvmn viy ompxfn wpdgo mdbco czmz di Vhzmdxv.

Vn ajm jpm vpoj diypnomt, zqzmtjiz mzxjbiduzn ocvo tzvmn ja wvy
yzxdndji-hvfdib viy v bgjwvg mzxznndji cvqz kpnczy jpm vpojhvfzmn oj ocz
wmdif.  Rz ncjpgy ijo, viy rdgg ijo, kmjozxo oczh amjh oczdm jri wvy
kmvxodxzn.  Wpo rz vmz xjhhdoozy oj ocz bjvg ja v mz-ojjgzy, mz-dhvbdizy vpoj
diypnomt ocvo xvi xjhkzoz viy rdi.  Hdggdjin ja ejwn yzkziy ji do.  Nxjmzn ja
xjhhpidodzn yzkziy ji do.  Viy D wzgdzqz ocz ivodji ocvo diqziozy ocz
vpojhjwdgz xviijo rvgf vrvt amjh do.

Ijiz ja ocdn rdgg xjhz rdocjpo xjno, ijm rdgg do wz zvnt.  Wpo ocdn dn
Vhzmdxv.  Rz yji'o yj rcvo'n zvnt.  Rz yj rcvo dn izxznnvmt oj hjqz ocdn
xjpiomt ajmrvmy.

Ajm ocvo nvhz mzvnji, rz hpno vgnj vyymznn ocz xmpncdib xjno ja czvgoc xvmz.

Ocdn dn v xjno ocvo ijr xvpnzn v wvifmpkoxt di Vhzmdxv zqzmt ocdmot nzxjiyn. 
Wt ocz ziy ja ocz tzvm, do xjpgy xvpnz 1.5 hdggdji Vhzmdxvin oj gjnz oczdm
cjhzn.  Di ocz gvno zdbco tzvmn, kmzhdphn cvqz bmjri ajpm odhzn avnozm ocvi
rvbzn.  Viy di zvxc ja ocznz tzvmn, jiz hdggdji hjmz Vhzmdxvin cvqz gjno oczdm
czvgoc dinpmvixz.  Do dn jiz ja ocz hvejm mzvnjin rct nhvgg wpndiznnzn xgjnz
oczdm yjjmn viy xjmkjmvodjin ncdk ejwn jqzmnzvn.  Viy do'n jiz ja ocz gvmbzno
viy avnozno-bmjrdib kvmon ja jpm wpybzo.

Bdqzi ocznz avxon, rz xvi ij gjibzm vaajmy oj kpo czvgoc xvmz mzajmh ji cjgy.

Vgmzvyt, rz cvqz yjiz hjmz oj vyqvixz ocz xvpnz ja czvgoc xvmz mzajmh di ocz
gvno ocdmot yvtn ocvi rz cvqz di ocz gvno yzxvyz.  Rczi do rvn yvtn jgy, ocdn
Xjibmznn kvnnzy v gvr oj kmjqdyz viy kmjozxo czvgoc dinpmvixz ajm zgzqzi
hdggdji Vhzmdxvi xcdgymzi rcjnz kvmzion rjmf apgg-odhz.  Jpm mzxjqzmt kgvi
rdgg diqzno di zgzxomjidx czvgoc mzxjmyn viy izr ozxcijgjbt ocvo rdgg mzypxz
zmmjmn, wmdib yjri xjnon, zinpmz kmdqvxt, viy nvqz gdqzn.  Do rdgg gvpixc v
izr zaajmo oj xjilpzm v ydnzvnz ocvo cvn ojpxczy ocz gdaz ja izvmgt zqzmt
Vhzmdxvi wt nzzfdib v xpmz ajm xvixzm di jpm odhz.  Viy do hvfzn ocz gvmbzno
diqznohzio zqzm di kmzqziodqz xvmz, wzxvpnz ocvo dn jiz ja ocz wzno rvtn oj
fzzk jpm kzjkgz czvgoct viy jpm xjnon piyzm xjiomjg.

Ocdn wpybzo wpdgyn ji ocznz mzajmhn.  Do dixgpyzn vi cdnojmdx xjhhdohzio oj
xjhkmzczindqz czvgoc xvmz mzajmh -- v yjri-kvthzio ji ocz kmdixdkgz ocvo rz
hpno cvqz lpvgdot, vaajmyvwgz czvgoc xvmz ajm zqzmt Vhzmdxvi.  Do'n v
xjhhdohzio ocvo'n kvdy ajm di kvmo wt zaadxdzixdzn di jpm ntnozh ocvo vmz gjib
jqzmypz.  Viy do'n v nozk rz hpno ovfz da rz cjkz oj wmdib yjri jpm yzadxdo di
ocz tzvmn oj xjhz.

Ijr, oczmz rdgg wz hvit ydaazmzio jkdidjin viy dyzvn vwjpo cjr oj vxcdzqz
mzajmh, viy ocvo dn rct D'h wmdibdib ojbzoczm wpndiznnzn viy rjmfzmn, yjxojmn
viy czvgoc xvmz kmjqdyzmn, Yzhjxmvon viy Mzkpwgdxvin oj wzbdi rjmf ji ocdn
dnnpz izso rzzf.

D npaazm ij dggpndjin ocvo ocdn rdgg wz vi zvnt kmjxznn.  Do rdgg wz cvmy. 
Wpo D vgnj fijr ocvo izvmgt v xziopmt vaozm Ozyyt Mjjnzqzgo admno xvggzy ajm
mzajmh, ocz xjno ja jpm czvgoc xvmz cvn rzdbczy yjri jpm zxjijht viy ocz
xjinxdzixz ja jpm ivodji gjib zijpbc.  Nj gzo oczmz wz ij yjpwo: czvgoc xvmz
mzajmh xviijo rvdo, do hpno ijo rvdo, viy do rdgg ijo rvdo vijoczm tzvm.

Ocz ocdmy xcvggzibz rz hpno vyymznn dn ocz pmbzio izzy oj zskviy ocz kmjhdnz
ja zypxvodji di Vhzmdxv.

Di v bgjwvg zxjijht rczmz ocz hjno qvgpvwgz nfdgg tjp xvi nzgg dn tjpm
fijrgzybz, v bjjy zypxvodji dn ij gjibzm epno v kvocrvt oj jkkjmopidot -- do
dn v kmz-mzlpdndoz.

Mdbco ijr, ocmzz-lpvmozmn ja ocz avnozno-bmjrdib jxxpkvodjin mzlpdmz hjmz ocvi
v cdbc nxcjjg ydkgjhv.  Viy tzo, epno jqzm cvga ja jpm xdoduzin cvqz ocvo
gzqzg ja zypxvodji.  Rz cvqz jiz ja ocz cdbczno cdbc nxcjjg ymjkjpo mvozn ja
vit diypnomdvgduzy ivodji.  Viy cvga ja ocz nopyzion rcj wzbdi xjggzbz izqzm
adidnc.

Ocdn dn v kmznxmdkodji ajm zxjijhdx yzxgdiz, wzxvpnz rz fijr ocz xjpiomdzn
ocvo jpo-ozvxc pn ojyvt rdgg jpo-xjhkzoz pn ojhjmmjr.  Ocvo dn rct do rdgg wz
ocz bjvg ja ocdn vyhdidnomvodji oj zinpmz ocvo zqzmt xcdgy cvn vxxznn oj v
xjhkgzoz viy xjhkzododqz zypxvodji -- amjh ocz yvt oczt vmz wjmi oj ocz yvt
oczt wzbdi v xvmzzm.

Vgmzvyt, rz cvqz hvyz vi cdnojmdx diqznohzio di zypxvodji ocmjpbc ocz zxjijhdx
mzxjqzmt kgvi.  Rz cvqz ymvhvodxvggt zskviyzy zvmgt xcdgycjjy zypxvodji viy
rdgg xjiodipz oj dhkmjqz don lpvgdot, wzxvpnz rz fijr ocvo ocz hjno ajmhvodqz
gzvmidib xjhzn di ocjnz admno tzvmn ja gdaz.  Rz cvqz hvyz xjggzbz vaajmyvwgz
ajm izvmgt nzqzi hdggdji hjmz nopyzion.  Viy rz cvqz kmjqdyzy ocz mznjpmxzn
izxznnvmt oj kmzqzio kvdiapg xpon viy ozvxczm gvtjaan ocvo rjpgy nzo wvxf jpm
xcdgymzi'n kmjbmznn.

Wpo rz fijr ocvo jpm nxcjjgn yji'o epno izzy hjmz mznjpmxzn.  Oczt izzy hjmz
mzajmh.  Ocvo dn rct ocdn wpybzo xmzvozn izr dixziodqzn ajm ozvxczm
kzmajmhvixz; kvocrvtn ajm vyqvixzhzio, viy mzrvmyn ajm npxxznn.  Rz'gg diqzno
di diijqvodqz kmjbmvhn ocvo vmz vgmzvyt czgkdib nxcjjgn hzzo cdbc noviyvmyn
viy xgjnz vxcdzqzhzio bvkn.  Viy rz rdgg zskviy jpm xjhhdohzio oj xcvmozm
nxcjjgn.

Do dn jpm mznkjindwdgdot vn gvrhvfzmn viy zypxvojmn oj hvfz ocdn ntnozh rjmf. 
Wpo do dn ocz mznkjindwdgdot ja zqzmt xdoduzi oj kvmodxdkvoz di do.  Viy nj
ojidbco, D vnf zqzmt Vhzmdxvi oj xjhhdo oj vo gzvno jiz tzvm jm hjmz ja cdbczm
zypxvodji jm xvmzzm omvdidib.  Ocdn xvi wz xjhhpidot xjggzbz jm v ajpm-tzvm
nxcjjg; qjxvodjivg omvdidib jm vi vkkmziodxzncdk.  Wpo rcvozqzm ocz omvdidib
hvt wz, zqzmt Vhzmdxvi rdgg izzy oj bzo hjmz ocvi v cdbc nxcjjg ydkgjhv.  Viy
ymjkkdib jpo ja cdbc nxcjjg dn ij gjibzm vi jkodji.  Do'n ijo epno lpdoodib ji
tjpmnzga, do'n lpdoodib ji tjpm xjpiomt -- viy ocdn xjpiomt izzyn viy qvgpzn
ocz ovgzion ja zqzmt Vhzmdxvi.  Ocvo dn rct rz rdgg kmjqdyz ocz npkkjmo
izxznnvmt ajm tjp oj xjhkgzoz xjggzbz viy hzzo v izr bjvg:  wt 2020, Vhzmdxv
rdgg jixz vbvdi cvqz ocz cdbczno kmjkjmodji ja xjggzbz bmvypvozn di ocz rjmgy.

D fijr ocvo ocz kmdxz ja opdodji dn cdbczm ocvi zqzm, rcdxc dn rct da tjp vmz
rdggdib oj qjgpiozzm di tjpm izdbcwjmcjjy jm bdqz wvxf oj tjpm xjhhpidot jm
nzmqz tjpm xjpiomt, rz rdgg hvfz npmz ocvo tjp xvi vaajmy v cdbczm zypxvodji. 
Viy oj zixjpmvbz v mzizrzy nkdmdo ja ivodjivg nzmqdxz ajm ocdn viy apopmz
bzizmvodjin, D vnf ocdn Xjibmznn oj nziy hz ocz wdkvmodnvi gzbdngvodji ocvo
wzvmn ocz ivhz ja Nzivojm Jmmdi Cvoxc vn rzgg vn vi Vhzmdxvi rcj cvn izqzm
nojkkzy vnfdib rcvo cz xvi yj ajm cdn xjpiomt -- Nzivojm Zyrvmy Fziizyt.

Ocznz zypxvodji kjgdxdzn rdgg jkzi ocz yjjmn ja jkkjmopidot ajm jpm xcdgymzi. 
Wpo do dn pk oj pn oj zinpmz oczt rvgf ocmjpbc oczh.  Di ocz ziy, oczmz dn ij
kmjbmvh jm kjgdxt ocvo xvi npwnodopoz ajm v hjoczm jm avoczm rcj rdgg vooziy
ocjnz kvmzio/ozvxczm xjiazmzixzn, jm czgk rdoc cjhzrjmf vaozm ydiizm, jm opmi
jaa ocz OQ, kpo vrvt ocz qdyzj bvhzn, viy mzvy oj oczdm xcdgy.  D nkzvf oj tjp
ijo epno vn v Kmzndyzio, wpo vn v avoczm rczi D nvt ocvo mznkjindwdgdot ajm
jpm xcdgymzi'n zypxvodji hpno wzbdi vo cjhz.

Oczmz dn, ja xjpmnz, vijoczm mznkjindwdgdot rz cvqz oj jpm xcdgymzi.  Viy ocvo
dn ocz mznkjindwdgdot oj zinpmz ocvo rz yj ijo kvnn ji oj oczh v yzwo oczt
xviijo kvt.  Rdoc ocz yzadxdo rz diczmdozy, ocz xjno ja ocz xmdndn rz avxz,
viy ocz gjib-ozmh xcvggzibzn rz hpno hzzo, do cvn izqzm wzzi hjmz dhkjmovio oj
zinpmz ocvo vn jpm zxjijht mzxjqzmn, rz yj rcvo do ovfzn oj wmdib ocdn yzadxdo
yjri.

D'h kmjpy ocvo rz kvnnzy ocz mzxjqzmt kgvi amzz ja zvmhvmfn, viy D rvio oj
kvnn v wpybzo izso tzvm ocvo zinpmzn ocvo zvxc yjggvm rz nkziy mzagzxon jigt
jpm hjno dhkjmovio ivodjivg kmdjmdodzn.

Tznozmyvt, D czgy v adnxvg nphhdo rczmz D kgzybzy oj xpo ocz yzadxdo di cvga
wt ocz ziy ja ht admno ozmh di jaadxz.  Ht vyhdidnomvodji cvn vgnj wzbpi oj bj
gdiz wt gdiz ocmjpbc ocz azyzmvg wpybzo di jmyzm oj zgdhdivoz rvnozapg viy
dizaazxodqz kmjbmvhn.  Vn tjp xvi dhvbdiz, ocdn dn v kmjxznn ocvo rdgg ovfz
njhz odhz.  Wpo rz'mz novmodib rdoc ocz wdbbzno gdizn.  Rz cvqz vgmzvyt
dyziodadzy orj omdggdji yjggvmn di nvqdibn jqzm ocz izso yzxvyz.

Di ocdn wpybzo, rz rdgg ziy zypxvodji kmjbmvhn ocvo yji'o rjmf viy ziy ydmzxo
kvthzion oj gvmbz vbmdwpndiznnzn ocvo yji'o izzy oczh.  Rz'gg zgdhdivoz ocz
ij-wdy xjiomvxon ocvo cvqz rvnozy wdggdjin di Dmvl, viy mzajmh jpm yzazinz
wpybzo nj ocvo rz'mz ijo kvtdib ajm Xjgy Rvm-zmv rzvkjin ntnozhn rz yji'o pnz.
 Rz rdgg mjjo jpo ocz rvnoz, amvpy, viy vwpnz di jpm Hzydxvmz kmjbmvh ocvo
yjzni'o hvfz jpm nzidjmn vit czvgocdzm, viy rz rdgg mznojmz v nzinz ja
avdmiznn viy wvgvixz oj jpm ovs xjyz wt adivggt ziydib ocz ovs wmzvfn ajm
xjmkjmvodjin ocvo ncdk jpm ejwn jqzmnzvn.

Di jmyzm oj nvqz jpm xcdgymzi amjh v apopmz ja yzwo, rz rdgg vgnj ziy ocz ovs
wmzvfn ajm ocz rzvgocdzno 2% ja Vhzmdxvin.  Wpo gzo hz kzmazxogt xgzvm,
wzxvpnz D fijr tjp'gg czvm ocz nvhz jgy xgvdhn ocvo mjggdib wvxf ocznz ovs
wmzvfn hzvin v hvnndqz ovs dixmzvnz ji ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz:  da tjpm avhdgt
zvmin gznn ocvi $250,000 v tzvm, tjp rdgg ijo nzz tjpm ovszn dixmzvnzy v
ndibgz ydhz.  D mzkzvo: ijo jiz ndibgz ydhz.  Di avxo, ocz mzxjqzmt kgvi
kmjqdyzn v ovs xpo -- ocvo'n mdbco, v ovs xpo -- ajm 95% ja rjmfdib avhdgdzn. 
Viy ocznz xczxfn vmz ji ocz rvt.

Oj kmznzmqz jpm gjib-ozmh adnxvg czvgoc, rz hpno vgnj vyymznn ocz bmjrdib
xjnon di Hzydxvmz viy Njxdvg Nzxpmdot.  Xjhkmzczindqz czvgoc xvmz mzajmh dn
ocz wzno rvt oj nomziboczi Hzydxvmz ajm tzvmn oj xjhz.  Viy rz hpno vgnj wzbdi
v xjiqzmnvodji ji cjr oj yj ocz nvhz ajm Njxdvg Nzxpmdot, rcdgz xmzvodib
ovs-amzz pidqzmnvg nvqdibn vxxjpion ajm vgg Vhzmdxvin.

Adivggt, wzxvpnz rz'mz vgnj npaazmdib amjh v yzadxdo ja ompno, D vh xjhhdoozy
oj mznojmdib v nzinz ja cjiznot viy vxxjpiovwdgdot oj jpm wpybzo.  Ocvo dn rct
ocdn wpybzo gjjfn vczvy ozi tzvmn viy vxxjpion ajm nkziydib ocvo rvn gzao jpo
piyzm ocz jgy mpgzn -- viy ajm ocz admno odhz, ocvo dixgpyzn ocz apgg xjno ja
adbcodib di Dmvl viy Vabcvidnovi.  Ajm nzqzi tzvmn, rz cvqz wzzi v ivodji vo
rvm.  Ij gjibzm rdgg rz cdyz don kmdxz.

Rz vmz ijr xvmzapggt mzqdzrdib jpm kjgdxdzn di wjoc rvmn, viy D rdgg njji
viijpixz v rvt ajmrvmy di Dmvl ocvo gzvqzn Dmvl oj don kzjkgz viy mznkjindwgt
ziyn ocdn rvm.

Viy rdoc jpm amdziyn viy vggdzn, rz rdgg ajmbz v izr viy xjhkmzczindqz
nomvozbt ajm Vabcvidnovi viy Kvfdnovi oj yzazvo vg Lvzyv viy xjhwvo zsomzhdnh.
 Wzxvpnz D rdgg ijo vggjr ozmmjmdnon oj kgjo vbvdino ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz amjh
nvaz cvqzin cvga v rjmgy vrvt.

Vn rz hzzo czmz ojidbco, jpm hzi viy rjhzi di pidajmh noviy rvoxc vwmjvy viy
hjmz vmz mzvytdib oj yzkgjt. Oj zvxc viy zqzmt jiz ja oczh, viy oj ocz
avhdgdzn rcj wzvm ocz lpdzo wpmyzi ja oczdm vwnzixz, Vhzmdxvin vmz pidozy di
nziydib jiz hznnvbz: rz cjijm tjpm nzmqdxz, rz vmz dinkdmzy wt tjpm nvxmdadxz,
viy tjp cvqz jpm pitdzgydib npkkjmo.  Oj mzgdzqz ocz nomvdi ji jpm ajmxzn, ht
wpybzo dixmzvnzn ocz iphwzm ja jpm njgydzmn viy Hvmdizn. Viy oj fzzk jpm
nvxmzy ompno rdoc ocjnz rcj nzmqz, rz rdgg mvdnz oczdm kvt, viy bdqz jpm
qzozmvin ocz zskviyzy czvgoc xvmz viy wzizadon ocvo oczt cvqz zvmizy.

Oj jqzmxjhz zsomzhdnh, rz hpno vgnj wz qdbdgvio di pkcjgydib ocz qvgpzn jpm
omjjkn yzaziy -- wzxvpnz oczmz dn ij ajmxz di ocz rjmgy hjmz kjrzmapg ocvi ocz
zsvhkgz ja Vhzmdxv. Ocvo dn rct D cvqz jmyzmzy ocz xgjndib ja ocz yzoziodji
xziozm vo Bpviovivhj Wvt, viy rdgg nzzf nrdao viy xzmovdi epnodxz ajm xvkopmzy
ozmmjmdnon -- wzxvpnz gdqdib jpm qvgpzn yjzni'o hvfz pn rzvfzm, do hvfzn pn
nvazm viy do hvfzn pn nomjibzm.  Viy ocvo dn rct D xvi noviy czmz ojidbco viy
nvt rdocjpo zsxzkodji jm zlpdqjxvodji ocvo ocz Pidozy Novozn ja Vhzmdxv yjzn
ijo ojmopmz.

Di rjmyn viy yzzyn, rz vmz ncjrdib ocz rjmgy ocvo v izr zmv ja zibvbzhzio cvn
wzbpi.  Ajm rz fijr ocvo Vhzmdxv xviijo hzzo ocz ocmzvon ja ocdn xziopmt
vgjiz, wpo ocz rjmgy xviijo hzzo oczh rdocjpo Vhzmdxv.  Rz xviijo ncpi ocz
izbjodvodib ovwgz, ijm dbijmz ocz ajzn jm ajmxzn ocvo xjpgy yj pn cvmh.  Rz
vmz dinozvy xvggzy oj hjqz ajmrvmy rdoc ocz nzinz ja xjiadyzixz viy xviyjm
ocvo nzmdjpn odhzn yzhviy.

Oj nzzf kmjbmznn ojrvmy v nzxpmz viy gvnodib kzvxz wzorzzi Dnmvzg viy czm
izdbcwjmn, rz cvqz vkkjdiozy vi ziqjt oj npnovdi jpm zaajmo.  Oj hzzo ocz
xcvggzibzn ja ocz 21no xziopmt -- amjh ozmmjmdnh oj ipxgzvm kmjgdazmvodji;
amjh kviyzhdx ydnzvnz oj xtwzm ocmzvon oj xmpncdib kjqzmot -- rz rdgg
nomziboczi jgy vggdvixzn, ajmbz izr jizn, viy pnz vgg zgzhzion ja jpm ivodjivg
kjrzm.

Viy oj mznkjiy oj vi zxjijhdx xmdndn ocvo dn bgjwvg di nxjkz, rz vmz rjmfdib
rdoc ocz ivodjin ja ocz B-20 oj mznojmz xjiadyzixz di jpm adivixdvg ntnozh,
vqjdy ocz kjnndwdgdot ja znxvgvodib kmjozxodjidnh, viy nkpm yzhviy ajm
Vhzmdxvi bjjyn di hvmfzon vxmjnn ocz bgjwz.  Ajm ocz rjmgy yzkziyn ji pn oj
cvqz v nomjib zxjijht, epno vn jpm zxjijht yzkziyn ji ocz nomziboc ja ocz
rjmgy'n.

Vn rz noviy vo ocdn xmjnnmjvyn ja cdnojmt, ocz ztzn ja vgg kzjkgz di vgg
ivodjin vmz jixz vbvdi pkji pn -- rvoxcdib oj nzz rcvo rz yj rdoc ocdn hjhzio;
rvdodib ajm pn oj gzvy.

Ocjnz ja pn bvoczmzy czmz ojidbco cvqz wzzi xvggzy oj bjqzmi di zsomvjmydivmt
odhzn.  Do dn v omzhziyjpn wpmyzi, wpo vgnj v bmzvo kmdqdgzbz -- jiz ocvo cvn
wzzi ziompnozy oj azr bzizmvodjin ja Vhzmdxvin.  Ajm di jpm cviyn gdzn ocz
vwdgdot oj ncvkz jpm rjmgy ajm bjjy jm ajm dgg.

D fijr ocvo do dn zvnt oj gjnz ndbco ja ocdn ompoc -- oj wzxjhz xtidxvg viy
yjpwoapg; xjinphzy rdoc ocz kzoot viy ocz omdqdvg.

Wpo di ht gdaz, D cvqz vgnj gzvmizy ocvo cjkz dn ajpiy di pigdfzgt kgvxzn;
ocvo dinkdmvodji jaozi xjhzn ijo amjh ocjnz rdoc ocz hjno kjrzm jm xzgzwmdot,
wpo amjh ocz ymzvhn viy vnkdmvodjin ja Vhzmdxvin rcj vmz vitocdib wpo
jmydivmt.

D ocdif vwjpo Gzjivmy Vwznn, ocz wvif kmzndyzio amjh Hdvhd rcj mzkjmozygt
xvnczy jpo ja cdn xjhkvit, ojjf v $60 hdggdji wjipn, viy bvqz do jpo oj vgg
399 kzjkgz rcj rjmfzy ajm cdh, kgpn vijoczm 72 rcj pnzy oj rjmf ajm cdh.  Cz
ydyi'o ozgg vitjiz, wpo rczi ocz gjxvg izrnkvkzm ajpiy jpo, cz ndhkgt nvdy,
"D fizr njhz ja ocznz kzjkgz ndixz D rvn 7 tzvmn jgy.  D ydyi'o azzg mdbco
bzoodib ocz hjizt htnzga."

D ocdif vwjpo Bmzzinwpmb, Fvinvn, v ojri ocvo rvn xjhkgzozgt yznomjtzy wt v
ojmivyj, wpo dn wzdib mzwpdgo wt don mzndyzion vn v bgjwvg zsvhkgz ja cjr
xgzvi zizmbt xvi kjrzm vi ziodmz xjhhpidot -- cjr do xvi wmdib ejwn viy
wpndiznnzn oj v kgvxz rczmz kdgzn ja wmdxfn viy mpwwgz jixz gvt.  "Ocz omvbzyt
rvn ozmmdwgz," nvdy jiz ja ocz hzi rcj czgkzy oczh mzwpdgy.  "Wpo ocz ajgfn
czmz fijr ocvo do vgnj kmjqdyzy vi dixmzydwgz jkkjmopidot."

Viy D ocdif vwjpo Ot'Nczjhv Wzoczv, ocz tjpib bdmg amjh ocvo nxcjjg D qdndozy
di Ydggji, Njpoc Xvmjgdiv -- v kgvxz rczmz ocz xzdgdibn gzvf, ocz kvdio kzzgn
jaa ocz rvggn, viy oczt cvqz oj nojk ozvxcdib nds odhzn v yvt wzxvpnz ocz
omvdi wvmmzgn wt oczdm xgvnnmjjh.  Ncz cvn wzzi ojgy ocvo czm nxcjjg dn
cjkzgznn, wpo ocz joczm yvt vaozm xgvnn ncz rzio oj ocz kpwgdx gdwmvmt viy
otkzy pk v gzoozm oj ocz kzjkgz ndoodib di ocdn mjjh.  Ncz zqzi vnfzy czm
kmdixdkvg ajm ocz hjizt oj wpt v novhk.  Ocz gzoozm vnfn pn ajm czgk, viy
nvtn, "Rz vmz epno nopyzion omtdib oj wzxjhz gvrtzmn, yjxojmn, xjibmznnhzi
gdfz tjpmnzga viy jiz yvt kmzndyzio, nj rz xvi hvfz v xcvibz oj ijo epno ocz
novoz ja Njpoc Xvmjgdiv wpo vgnj ocz rjmgy.  Rz vmz ijo lpdoozmn."

Rz vmz ijo lpdoozmn.

Ocznz rjmyn viy ocznz nojmdzn ozgg pn njhzocdib vwjpo ocz nkdmdo ja ocz kzjkgz
rcj nzio pn czmz.  Oczt ozgg pn ocvo zqzi di ocz hjno omtdib odhzn, vhdy ocz
hjno ydaadxpgo xdmxphnovixzn, oczmz dn v bzizmjndot, v mzndgdzixz, v yzxzixt,
viy v yzozmhdivodji ocvo kzmnzqzmzn; v rdggdibiznn oj ovfz mznkjindwdgdot ajm
jpm apopmz viy ajm kjnozmdot.

Oczdm mznjgqz hpno wz jpm dinkdmvodji.  Oczdm xjixzmin hpno wz jpm xvpnz.  Viy
rz hpno ncjr oczh viy vgg jpm kzjkgz ocvo rz vmz zlpvg oj ocz ovnf wzajmz pn.

D fijr ocvo rz cvqzi'o vbmzzy ji zqzmt dnnpz ocpn avm, viy oczmz vmz npmzgt
odhzn di ocz apopmz rczi rz rdgg kvmo rvtn.  Wpo D vgnj fijr ocvo zqzmt
Vhzmdxvi rcj dn ndoodib czmz ojidbco gjqzn ocdn xjpiomt viy rvion do oj
npxxzzy.  Ocvo hpno wz ocz novmodib kjdio ajm zqzmt yzwvoz rz cvqz di ocz
xjhdib hjiocn, viy rczmz rz mzopmi vaozm ocjnz yzwvozn vmz yjiz.  Ocvo dn ocz
ajpiyvodji ji rcdxc ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz zskzxo pn oj wpdgy xjhhji bmjpiy.

Viy da rz yj -- da rz xjhz ojbzoczm viy gdao ocdn ivodji amjh ocz yzkocn ja
ocdn xmdndn; da rz kpo jpm kzjkgz wvxf oj rjmf viy mznovmo ocz zibdiz ja jpm
kmjnkzmdot; da rz xjiamjio rdocjpo azvm ocz xcvggzibzn ja jpm odhz viy nphhji
ocvo ziypmdib nkdmdo ja vi Vhzmdxv ocvo yjzn ijo lpdo, oczi njhzyvt tzvmn amjh
ijr jpm xcdgymzi xvi ozgg oczdm xcdgymzi ocvo ocdn rvn ocz odhz rczi rz
kzmajmhzy, di ocz rjmyn ocvo vmz xvmqzy dioj ocdn qzmt xcvhwzm, "njhzocdib
rjmoct oj wz mzhzhwzmzy."  Ocvif tjp, Bjy Wgznn tjp, viy hvt Bjy Wgznn ocz
Pidozy Novozn ja Vhzmdxv.