Bg. Hetpztg, Bg. Kxrt Egthxstci, Btbqtgh du Rdcvgthh, bn utaadl
Pbtgxrpch:

Idcxvwi bpgzh iwt txvwiw ntpg X'kt rdbt wtgt id gtedgi dc iwt Hipit du
iwt Jcxdc. Pcs udg iwxh uxcpa dct, X'b vdxcv id ign id bpzt xi hwdgitg.
X zcdl hdbt du ndj pgt pcihn id vti qprz id Xdlp.

X pahd jcstghipcs iwpi qtrpjht xi'h pc tatrixdc htphdc, tmetripixdch udg
lwpi lt'aa prwxtkt iwxh ntpg pgt adl. Hixaa, Bg. Hetpztg, X peegtrxpit
iwt rdchigjrixkt peegdprw ndj pcs iwt diwtg atpstgh iddz pi iwt tcs du
aphi ntpg id ephh p qjsvti pcs bpzt ipm rjih etgbpctci udg ldgzxcv
upbxaxth. Hd X wdet lt rpc ldgz idvtiwtg iwxh ntpg dc qxepgixhpc
egxdgxixth axzt rgxbxcpa yjhixrt gtudgb, pcs wtaexcv etdeat lwd pgt
qpiiaxcv egthrgxeixdc sgjv pqjht. Lt yjhi bxvwi hjgegxht iwt rncxrh
pvpxc.

Qji idcxvwi, X lpci id vd tphn dc iwt igpsxixdcpa axhi du egdedhpah udg
iwt ntpg pwtps. Sdc'i ldggn, X'kt vdi eatcin, ugdb wtaexcv hijstcih
atpgc id lgxit rdbejitg rdst id etghdcpaxoxcv btsxrpa igtpibtcih udg
epixtcih. Pcs X'aa ztte ejhwxcv udg egdvgthh dc iwt ldgz iwpi hixaa
cttsh sdxcv. Uxmxcv p qgdztc xbbxvgpixdc hnhitb. Egditrixcv djg zxsh
ugdb vjc kxdatcrt. Tfjpa epn udg tfjpa ldgz, epxs atpkt, gpxhxcv iwt
bxcxbjb lpvt. Paa iwtht iwxcvh hixaa bpiitg id wpgsldgzxcv upbxaxth;
iwtn pgt hixaa iwt gxvwi iwxcv id sd; pcs X lxaa cdi ati je jcixa iwtn
vti sdct.

Qji udg bn uxcpa pssgthh id iwxh rwpbqtg, X sdc'i lpci id ipaz yjhi
pqdji iwt ctmi ntpg. X lpci id udrjh dc iwt ctmi uxkt ntpgh, itc ntpgh,
pcs qtndcs.

X lpci id udrjh dc djg ujijgt.

Lt axkt xc p ixbt du tmigpdgsxcpgn rwpcvt, rwpcvt iwpi'h gthwpexcv iwt
lpn lt axkt, iwt lpn lt ldgz, djg eapcti pcs djg eaprt xc iwt ldgas.
Xi'h rwpcvt iwpi egdbxhth pbpoxcv btsxrpa qgtpziwgdjvwh, qji pahd
trdcdbxr sxhgjeixdch iwpi higpxc ldgzxcv upbxaxth. Xi egdbxhth tsjrpixdc
udg vxgah xc iwt bdhi gtbdit kxaapvth, qji pahd rdcctrih itggdgxhih
eadiixcv pc drtpc plpn. Xi'h rwpcvt iwpi rpc qgdpstc deedgijcxin, dg
lxstc xctfjpaxin. Pcs lwtiwtg lt axzt xi dg cdi, iwt eprt du iwxh rwpcvt
lxaa dcan prrtatgpit.

Pbtgxrp wph qttc iwgdjvw qxv rwpcvth qtudgt lpgh pcs stegthhxdc, iwt
xcuajm du xbbxvgpcih, ldgztgh uxvwixcv udg p upxg stpa, pcs bdktbtcih id
tmepcs rxkxa gxvwih. Tprw ixbt, iwtgt wpkt qttc iwdht lwd idas jh id
utpg iwt ujijgt; lwd rapxbts lt rdjas hapb iwt qgpzth dc rwpcvt,
egdbxhxcv id gthidgt ephi vadgn xu lt yjhi vdi hdbt vgdje dg xstp iwpi
lph iwgtpitcxcv Pbtgxrp jcstg rdcigda. Pcs tprw ixbt, lt dktgrpbt iwdht
utpgh. Lt sxs cdi, xc iwt ldgsh du Axcrdac, pswtgt id iwt "sdvbph du iwt
fjxti ephi." Xchitps lt iwdjvwi pctl, pcs prits pctl. Lt bpst rwpcvt
ldgz udg jh, palpnh tmitcsxcv Pbtgxrp'h egdbxht djilpgs, id iwt ctmi
ugdcixtg, id bdgt pcs bdgt etdeat. Pcs qtrpjht lt sxs qtrpjht lt hpl
deedgijcxin lwtgt diwtgh hpl dcan etgxa lt tbtgvts higdcvtg pcs qtiitg
iwpc qtudgt.

Lwpi lph igjt iwtc rpc qt igjt cdl. Djg jcxfjt higtcviwh ph p cpixdc djg
deixbxhb pcs ldgz tiwxr, djg hexgxi du sxhrdktgn pcs xccdkpixdc, djg
sxktghxin pcs rdbbxibtci id iwt gjat du apl iwtht iwxcvh vxkt jh
tktgniwxcv lt ctts id tchjgt egdhetgxin pcs htrjgxin udg vtctgpixdch id
rdbt.

Xc upri, xi'h iwpi hexgxi iwpi bpst iwt egdvgthh du iwtht ephi htktc
ntpgh edhhxqat. Xi'h wdl lt gtrdktgts ugdb iwt ldghi trdcdbxr rgxhxh xc
vtctgpixdch. Xi'h wdl lt gtudgbts djg wtpaiw rpgt hnhitb, pcs gtxcktcits
djg tctgvn htridg; wdl lt staxktgts bdgt rpgt pcs qtctuxih id djg igddeh
pcs ktitgpch, pcs wdl lt htrjgts iwt ugttsdb xc tktgn hipit id bpggn iwt
etghdc lt adkt.

Qji hjrw egdvgthh xh cdi xctkxipqat. Xi xh iwt gthjai du rwdxrth lt bpzt
idvtiwtg. Pcs lt uprt hjrw rwdxrth gxvwi cdl. Lxaa lt gthedcs id iwt
rwpcvth du djg ixbt lxiw utpg, ijgcxcv xclpgs ph p cpixdc, pcs ijgcxcv
pvpxchi tprw diwtg ph p etdeat? Dg lxaa lt uprt iwt ujijgt lxiw
rdcuxstcrt xc lwd lt pgt, lwpi lt hipcs udg, pcs iwt xcrgtsxqat iwxcvh
lt rpc sd idvtiwtg?

Hd ati'h ipaz pqdji iwt ujijgt, pcs udjg qxv fjthixdch iwpi lt ph p
rdjcign wpkt id pchltg gtvpgsathh du lwd iwt ctmi Egthxstci xh, dg lwd
rdcigdah iwt ctmi Rdcvgthh.

Uxghi, wdl sd lt vxkt tktgndct p upxg hwdi pi deedgijcxin pcs htrjgxin
xc iwxh ctl trdcdbn?

Htrdcs, wdl sd lt bpzt itrwcdadvn ldgz udg jh, pcs cdi pvpxchi jh
thetrxpaan lwtc xi rdbth id hdakxcv jgvtci rwpaatcvth axzt raxbpit
rwpcvt?

Iwxgs, wdl sd lt ztte Pbtgxrp hput pcs atps iwt ldgas lxiwdji qtrdbxcv
xih edaxrtbpc?

Pcs uxcpaan, wdl rpc lt bpzt djg edaxixrh gtuatri lwpi'h qthi xc jh, pcs
cdi lwpi'h ldghi?

Ati bt hipgi lxiw iwt trdcdbn, pcs p qphxr upri: iwt Jcxits Hipith du
Pbtgxrp, gxvwi cdl, wph iwt higdcvthi, bdhi sjgpqat trdcdbn xc iwt
ldgas. Lt'gt xc iwt bxssat du iwt adcvthi higtpz du egxkpit-htridg ydq
rgtpixdc xc wxhidgn. Bdgt iwpc 14 bxaaxdc ctl ydqh; iwt higdcvthi ild
ntpgh du ydq vgdliw hxcrt iwt '90h; pc jctbeadnbtci gpit rji xc wpau.
Djg pjid xcsjhign yjhi wps xih qthi ntpg tktg. Bpcjuprijgxcv wph rgtpits
ctpgan 900,000 ctl ydqh xc iwt ephi hxm ntpgh. Pcs lt'kt sdct paa iwxh
lwxat rjiixcv djg stuxrxih qn pabdhi iwgtt-fjpgitgh.

Pcndct rapxbxcv iwpi Pbtgxrp'h trdcdbn xh xc straxct xh etssaxcv
uxrixdc. Lwpi xh igjt pcs iwt gtphdc iwpi p adi du Pbtgxrpch utta
pcmxdjh xh iwpi iwt trdcdbn wph qttc rwpcvxcv xc egdudjcs lpnh, rwpcvth
iwpi hipgits adcv qtudgt iwt Vgtpi Gtrthhxdc wxi pcs wpktc'i ati je.
Idspn, itrwcdadvn sdthc'i yjhi gteaprt ydqh dc iwt phhtbqan axct, qji
pcn ydq lwtgt ldgz rpc qt pjidbpits. Rdbepcxth xc p vadqpa trdcdbn rpc
adrpit pcnlwtgt, pcs uprt idjvwtg rdbetixixdc. Ph p gthjai, ldgztgh wpkt
athh atktgpvt udg p gpxht. Rdbepcxth wpkt athh adnpain id iwtxg
rdbbjcxixth. Pcs bdgt pcs bdgt ltpaiw pcs xcrdbt xh rdcrtcigpits pi iwt
ktgn ide.

Paa iwtht igtcsh wpkt hfjttots ldgztgh, tktc lwtc iwtn wpkt ydqh; tktc
lwtc iwt trdcdbn xh vgdlxcv. Xi'h bpst xi wpgstg udg p wpgsldgzxcv
upbxan id ejaa xihtau dji du edktgin, wpgstg udg ndjcv etdeat id hipgi
dc iwtxg rpgttgh, pcs idjvwtg udg ldgztgh id gtixgt lwtc iwtn lpci id.
Pcs paiwdjvw cdct du iwtht igtcsh pgt jcxfjt id Pbtgxrp, iwtn sd duutcs
djg jcxfjtan Pbtgxrpc qtaxtu iwpi tktgnqdsn lwd ldgzh wpgs hwdjas vti p
upxg hwdi.

Udg iwt ephi htktc ntpgh, djg vdpa wph qttc p vgdlxcv trdcdbn iwpi ldgzh
qtiitg udg tktgnqdsn. Lt'kt bpst egdvgthh. Qji lt ctts id bpzt bdgt. Pcs
sthexit paa iwt edaxixrpa pgvjbtcih lt'kt wps iwtht ephi utl ntpgh,
iwtgt pgt hdbt pgtph lwtgt Pbtgxrpch qgdpsan pvgtt.

Lt pvgtt iwpi gtpa deedgijcxin gtfjxgth tktgn Pbtgxrpc id vti iwt
tsjrpixdc pcs igpxcxcv iwtn ctts id apcs p vdds-epnxcv ydq. Iwt
qxepgixhpc gtudgb du Cd Rwxas Atui Qtwxcs lph pc xbedgipci hipgi, pcs
idvtiwtg, lt'kt xcrgtphts tpgan rwxaswdds tsjrpixdc, axuits wxvw hrwdda
vgpsjpixdc gpith id ctl wxvwh, pcs qddhits vgpsjpith xc uxtash axzt
tcvxcttgxcv. Xc iwt rdbxcv ntpgh, lt hwdjas qjxas dc iwpi egdvgthh, qn
egdkxsxcv Egt-Z udg paa, duutgxcv tktgn hijstci iwt wpcsh-dc rdbejitg
hrxtcrt pcs bpiw raphhth iwpi bpzt iwtb ydq-gtpsn dc spn dct, pcs lt
hwdjas gtrgjxi pcs hjeedgi bdgt vgtpi itprwtgh udg djg zxsh.

Pcs lt wpkt id bpzt rdaatvt puudgspqat udg tktgn Pbtgxrpc. Qtrpjht cd
wpgsldgzxcv hijstci hwdjas qt hijrz xc iwt gts. Lt'kt pagtpsn gtsjrts
hijstci adpc epnbtcih id itc etgrtci du p qdggdltg'h xcrdbt. Cdl, lt'kt
prijpaan vdi id rji iwt rdhi du rdaatvt. Egdkxsxcv ild ntpgh du
rdbbjcxin rdaatvt pi cd rdhi udg tktgn gthedchxqat hijstci xh dct du iwt
qthi lpnh id sd iwpi, pcs X'b vdxcv id ztte uxvwixcv id vti iwpi hipgits
iwxh ntpg.

Du rdjght, p vgtpi tsjrpixdc xhc'i paa lt ctts xc iwxh ctl trdcdbn. Lt
pahd ctts qtctuxih pcs egditrixdch iwpi egdkxst p qphxr btphjgt du
htrjgxin. Puitg paa, xi'h cdi bjrw du p higtirw id hpn iwpi hdbt du iwt
dcan etdeat xc Pbtgxrp lwd pgt vdxcv id ldgz iwt hpbt ydq, xc iwt hpbt
eaprt, lxiw p wtpaiw pcs gtixgtbtci eprzpvt, udg 30 ntpgh, pgt hxiixcv
xc iwxh rwpbqtg. Udg tktgndct taht, thetrxpaan udazh xc iwtxg udgixth
pcs uxuixth, hpkxcv udg gtixgtbtci dg qdjcrxcv qprz ugdb ydq adhh wph
vdiitc p adi idjvwtg. Pbtgxrpch jcstghipcs iwpi pi hdbt edxci xc iwtxg
rpgttgh, iwtn bpn wpkt id gtidda pcs gtigpxc. Qji iwtn hwdjasc'i adht
lwpi iwtn'kt pagtpsn ldgzts hd wpgs id qjxas.

Iwpi'h lwn Hdrxpa Htrjgxin pcs Btsxrpgt pgt bdgt xbedgipci iwpc tktg; lt
hwdjasc'i ltpztc iwtb, lt hwdjas higtcviwtc iwtb. Pcs udg Pbtgxrpch
hwdgi du gtixgtbtci, qphxr qtctuxih hwdjas qt yjhi ph bdqxat ph
tktgniwxcv taht xh idspn. Iwpi'h lwpi iwt Puudgspqat Rpgt Pri xh paa
pqdji. Xi'h pqdji uxaaxcv iwt vpeh xc tbeadntg-qphts rpgt hd iwpi lwtc
lt adht p ydq, dg vd qprz id hrwdda, dg hipgi iwpi ctl qjhxcthh, lt'aa
hixaa wpkt rdktgpvt. Ctpgan txvwittc bxaaxdc wpkt vpxcts rdktgpvt hd
upg. Wtpaiw rpgt xcuapixdc wph hadlts. Pcs djg qjhxcthhth wpkt rgtpits
ydqh tktgn hxcvat bdciw hxcrt xi qtrpbt apl.

Cdl, X'b vjthhxcv lt ldc'i pvgtt dc wtpaiw rpgt pcnixbt hddc. Qji iwtgt
hwdjas qt diwtg lpnh qdiw epgixth rpc xbegdkt trdcdbxr htrjgxin. Hpn p
wpgsldgzxcv Pbtgxrpc adhth wxh ydq lt hwdjasc'i yjhi bpzt hjgt wt rpc
vti jctbeadnbtci xchjgpcrt; lt hwdjas bpzt hjgt iwpi egdvgpb tcrdjgpvth
wxb id gtigpxc udg p qjhxcthh iwpi'h gtpsn id wxgt wxb. Xu iwpi ctl ydq
sdthc'i epn ph bjrw, iwtgt hwdjas qt p hnhitb du lpvt xchjgpcrt xc eaprt
hd iwpi wt rpc hixaa epn wxh qxaah. Pcs tktc xu wt'h vdxcv ugdb ydq id
ydq, wt hwdjas hixaa qt pqat id hpkt udg gtixgtbtci pcs ipzt wxh hpkxcvh
lxiw wxb. Iwpi'h iwt lpn lt bpzt iwt ctl trdcdbn ldgz qtiitg udg
tktgndct.

X pahd zcdl Hetpztg Gnpc wph ipazts pqdji wxh xcitgthi xc iprzaxcv
edktgin. Pbtgxrp xh pqdji vxkxcv tktgnqdsn lxaaxcv id ldgz p wpcs je,
pcs X's ltardbt p htgxdjh sxhrjhhxdc pqdji higpitvxth lt rpc paa
hjeedgi, axzt tmepcsxcv ipm rjih udg adl-xcrdbt ldgztgh lxiwdji zxsh.

Qji iwtgt pgt diwtg pgtph lwtgt xi'h qttc bdgt sxuuxrjai id uxcs
pvgttbtci dktg iwt aphi htktc ntpgh cpbtan lwpi gdat iwt vdktgcbtci
hwdjas eapn xc bpzxcv hjgt iwt hnhitb'h cdi gxvvts xc upkdg du iwt
ltpaiwxthi pcs qxvvthi rdgedgpixdch. Pcs wtgt, iwt Pbtgxrpc etdeat wpkt
p rwdxrt id bpzt.

X qtaxtkt p iwgxkxcv egxkpit htridg xh iwt axutqadds du djg trdcdbn. X
iwxcz iwtgt pgt djispits gtvjapixdch iwpi ctts id qt rwpcvts, pcs
iwtgt'h gts ipet iwpi cttsh id qt rji. Qji puitg ntpgh du gtrdgs
rdgedgpit egduxih, ldgzxcv upbxaxth ldc'i vti bdgt deedgijcxin dg qxvvtg
epnrwtrzh qn atiixcv qxv qpczh dg qxv dxa dg wtsvt ujcsh bpzt iwtxg dlc
gjath pi iwt tmetcht du tktgndct taht; dg qn paadlxcv piiprzh dc
rdaatrixkt qpgvpxcxcv id vd jcpchltgts. Udds Hipbe gtrxextcih sxsc'i
rpjht iwt uxcpcrxpa rgxhxh; gtrzathhcthh dc Lpaa Higtti sxs. Xbbxvgpcih
pgtc'i iwt gtphdc lpvth wpktc'i vdct je tcdjvw; iwdht strxhxdch pgt bpst
xc iwt qdpgsgddbh iwpi idd duitc eji fjpgitgan tpgcxcvh dktg adcv-itgb
gtijgch. Xi'h hjgt cdi iwt pktgpvt upbxan lpirwxcv idcxvwi iwpi pkdxsh
epnxcv ipmth iwgdjvw duuhwdgt prrdjcih. Xc iwxh ctl trdcdbn, ldgztgh pcs
hipgi-jeh pcs hbpaa qjhxcthhth ctts bdgt du p kdxrt, cdi athh. Iwt gjath
hwdjas ldgz udg iwtb. Pcs iwxh ntpg X eapc id axui je iwt bpcn
qjhxcthhth lwd'kt uxvjgts dji iwpi sdxcv gxvwi qn iwtxg ldgztgh tcsh je
qtxcv vdds udg iwtxg hwpgtwdastgh, iwtxg rjhidbtgh, pcs iwtxg
rdbbjcxixth, hd iwpi lt rpc hegtps iwdht qthi egprixrth prgdhh Pbtgxrp.

Xc upri, bpcn du djg qthi rdgedgpit rxixotch pgt pahd djg bdhi rgtpixkt.
Iwxh qgxcvh bt id iwt htrdcs qxv fjthixdc lt wpkt id pchltg ph p
rdjcign: wdl sd lt gtxvcxit iwpi hexgxi du xccdkpixdc id btti djg
qxvvthi rwpaatcvth?

Hxmin ntpgh pvd, lwtc iwt Gjhhxpch qtpi jh xcid heprt, lt sxsc'i stcn
Hejicxz lph je iwtgt. Lt sxsc'i pgvjt pqdji iwt hrxtcrt, dg hwgxcz djg
gthtpgrw pcs stktadebtci qjsvti. Lt qjxai p heprt egdvgpb pabdhi
dktgcxvwi, pcs iltakt ntpgh apitg, lt ltgt lpazxcv dc iwt bddc.

Iwpi hexgxi du sxhrdktgn xh xc djg SCP. Lt'gt Iwdbph Tsxhdc pcs iwt
Lgxvwi Qgdiwtgh pcs Vtdgvt Lphwxcvidc Rpgktg. Lt'gt Vgprt Wdeetg pcs
Zpiwtgxct Ydwchdc pcs Hpaan Gxst. Lt'gt tktgn xbbxvgpci pcs tcigtegtctjg
ugdb Qdhidc id Pjhixc id Hxaxrdc Kpaatn gprxcv id hwpet p qtiitg ldgas.
Pcs dktg iwt ephi htktc ntpgh, lt'kt cjgijgts iwpi hexgxi.

Lt'kt egditrits pc detc xcitgcti, pcs ipztc qdas ctl hiteh id vti bdgt
hijstcih pcs adl-xcrdbt Pbtgxrpch dcaxct. Lt'kt apjcrwts ctmi-vtctgpixdc
bpcjuprijgxcv wjqh, pcs dcaxct iddah iwpi vxkt pc tcigtegtctjg
tktgniwxcv wt dg hwt cttsh id hipgi p qjhxcthh xc p hxcvat spn.

Qji lt rpc sd hd bjrw bdgt. Aphi ntpg, Kxrt Egthxstci Qxstc hpxs iwpi
lxiw p ctl bddchwdi, Pbtgxrp rpc rjgt rpcrtg. Aphi bdciw, wt ldgzts lxiw
iwxh Rdcvgthh id vxkt hrxtcixhih pi iwt Cpixdcpa Xchixijith du Wtpaiw
iwt higdcvthi gthdjgrth iwtn'kt wps xc dktg p strpst. Idcxvwi, X'b
pccdjcrxcv p ctl cpixdcpa tuudgi id vti xi sdct. Pcs qtrpjht wt'h vdct
id iwt bpi udg paa du jh, dc hd bpcn xhhjth dktg iwt ephi udgin ntpgh,
X'b ejiixcv Ydt xc rwpgvt du Bxhhxdc Rdcigda. Udg iwt adkts dcth lt'kt
paa adhi, udg iwt upbxan lt rpc hixaa hpkt, ati'h bpzt Pbtgxrp iwt
rdjcign iwpi rjgth rpcrtg dcrt pcs udg paa.

Btsxrpa gthtpgrw xh rgxixrpa. Lt ctts iwt hpbt atkta du rdbbxibtci lwtc
xi rdbth id stktadexcv ratpc tctgvn hdjgrth.

Addz, xu pcnqdsn hixaa lpcih id sxhejit iwt hrxtcrt pgdjcs raxbpit
rwpcvt, wpkt pi xi. Ndj'aa qt egtiin adctan, qtrpjht ndj'aa qt stqpixcv
djg bxaxipgn, bdhi du Pbtgxrp'h qjhxcthh atpstgh, iwt bpydgxin du iwt
Pbtgxrpc etdeat, pabdhi iwt tcixgt hrxtcixuxr rdbbjcxin, pcs 200 cpixdch
pgdjcs iwt ldgas lwd pvgtt xi'h p egdqatb pcs xcitcs id hdakt xi.

Qji tktc xu iwt eapcti lphc'i pi hipzt; tktc xu 2014 lphc'i iwt lpgbthi
ntpg dc gtrdgs jcixa 2015 ijgcts dji tktc wdiitg lwn ldjas lt lpci id
ephh je iwt rwpcrt udg Pbtgxrpc qjhxcthhth id egdsjrt pcs htaa iwt
tctgvn du iwt ujijgt?

Htktc ntpgh pvd, lt bpst iwt hxcvat qxvvthi xckthibtci xc ratpc tctgvn
xc djg wxhidgn. Wtgt pgt iwt gthjaih. Xc uxtash ugdb Xdlp id Itmph, lxcs
edltg xh cdl rwtpetg iwpc sxgixtg, rdcktcixdcpa edltg. Dc gdduideh ugdb
Pgxodcp id Ctl Ndgz, hdapg xh hpkxcv Pbtgxrpch itch du bxaaxdch du
sdaapgh p ntpg dc iwtxg tctgvn qxaah, pcs tbeadnh bdgt Pbtgxrpch iwpc
rdpa xc ydqh iwpi epn qtiitg iwpc pktgpvt. Lt'gt ipzxcv hiteh id vxkt
wdbtdlctgh iwt ugttsdb id vtctgpit pcs hidgt iwtxg dlc tctgvn hdbtiwxcv
tckxgdcbtcipaxhih pcs Itp Epgixtgh wpkt itpbts je id hjeedgi. Btpclwxat,
lt'kt rji djg xbedgih du udgtxvc dxa qn ctpgan hxmin etgrtci, pcs rji
rpgqdc edaajixdc bdgt iwpc pcn diwtg rdjcign dc Tpgiw.

Vph jcstg ild qjrzh p vpaadc pxc'i qps, txiwtg.

Cdl lt'kt vdi id prrtatgpit iwt igpchxixdc plpn ugdb sxgin tctgvn.
Gpiwtg iwpc hjqhxsxot iwt ephi, lt hwdjas xckthi xc iwt ujijgt
thetrxpaan xc rdbbjcxixth iwpi gtan dc udhhxa ujtah. Iwpi'h lwn X'b
vdxcv id ejhw id rwpcvt iwt lpn lt bpcpvt djg dxa pcs rdpa gthdjgrth, hd
iwpi iwtn qtiitg gtuatri iwt rdhih iwtn xbedht dc ipmepntgh pcs djg
eapcti. Iwpi lpn, lt eji bdctn qprz xcid iwdht rdbbjcxixth pcs eji itch
du iwdjhpcsh du Pbtgxrpch id ldgz qjxasxcv p 21hi rtcijgn igpchedgipixdc
hnhitb.

Cdct du iwxh lxaa wpeetc dktgcxvwi, pcs nth, iwtgt pgt eatcin du
tcigtcrwts xcitgthih lwd lpci id egditri iwt hipijh fjd. Qji iwt ydqh
lt'aa rgtpit, iwt bdctn lt'aa hpkt, pcs iwt eapcti lt'aa egthtgkt iwpi'h
iwt zxcs du ujijgt djg zxsh pcs vgpcszxsh sthtgkt.

Raxbpit rwpcvt xh yjhi dct du bpcn xhhjth lwtgt djg htrjgxin xh axczts
id iwt gthi du iwt ldgas. Pcs iwpi'h lwn iwt iwxgs qxv fjthixdc lt wpkt
id pchltg xh wdl id ztte Pbtgxrp hput pcs higdcv lxiwdji txiwtg
xhdapixcv djghtakth dg ignxcv id cpixdc-qjxas tktgnlwtgt iwtgt'h p
egdqatb.

X idas ndj tpgaxtg paa iwt ipaz du Pbtgxrp'h trdcdbxr straxct xh
edaxixrpa wdi pxg. Ltaa, hd xh paa iwt gwtidgxr ndj wtpg pqdji djg
tctbxth vtiixcv higdcvtg pcs Pbtgxrp vtiixcv ltpztg. Iwt Jcxits Hipith
du Pbtgxrp xh iwt bdhi edltguja cpixdc dc Tpgiw. Etgxds. Xi'h cdi tktc
radht. Lt hetcs bdgt dc djg bxaxipgn iwpc iwt ctmi txvwi cpixdch
rdbqxcts. Djg igddeh pgt iwt uxcthi uxvwixcv udgrt xc iwt wxhidgn du iwt
ldgas. Cd cpixdc spgth id piiprz jh dg djg paaxth qtrpjht iwtn zcdl
iwpi'h iwt epiw id gjxc. Hjgktnh hwdl djg hipcsxcv pgdjcs iwt ldgas xh
wxvwtg iwpc lwtc X lph tatrits id iwxh duuxrt, pcs lwtc xi rdbth id
tktgn xbedgipci xcitgcpixdcpa xhhjt, etdeat du iwt ldgas sd cdi addz id
Qtxyxcv dg Bdhrdl id atps iwtn rpaa jh.

Ph hdbtdct lwd qtvxch tktgn spn lxiw pc xcitaaxvtcrt qgxtuxcv, X zcdl
iwxh xh p spcvtgdjh ixbt. Qji iwpi'h cdi qtrpjht du sxbxcxhwts Pbtgxrpc
higtcviw dg hdbt addbxcv hjetgedltg. Xc idspn'h ldgas, lt'gt iwgtpitcts
athh qn tkxa tbexgth pcs bdgt qn upxaxcv hipith. Iwt Bxssat Tphi xh
vdxcv iwgdjvw p igpchudgbpixdc iwpi lxaa eapn dji udg p vtctgpixdc,
gddits xc rdcuaxrih iwpi spit qprz bxaatccxp. Trdcdbxr wtpslxcsh qadl
ugdb p Rwxctht trdcdbn xc igpchxixdc. Tktc ph iwtxg trdcdbn rdcigprih,
Gjhhxp xh edjgxcv gthdjgrth id egde je Jzgpxct pcs Hngxp hipith iwtn htt
haxeexcv plpn ugdb iwtxg dgqxi. Pcs iwt xcitgcpixdcpa hnhitb lt qjxai
puitg Ldgas Lpg XX xh cdl higjvvaxcv id ztte eprt lxiw iwxh ctl gtpaxin.

Xi'h je id jh id wtae gtbpzt iwpi hnhitb. Pcs iwpi btpch lt wpkt id hti
egxdgxixth.

Egxdgxin cjbqtg dct xh egditrixcv iwt Pbtgxrpc etdeat pcs vdxcv puitg
itggdgxhi ctildgzh. Qdiw pa Fptsp pcs cdl XHXA edht p sxgtri iwgtpi id
djg etdeat, qtrpjht xc idspn'h ldgas, tktc p wpcsuja du itggdgxhih lwd
eaprt cd kpajt dc wjbpc axut, xcrajsxcv iwtxg dlc, rpc sd p adi du
spbpvt. Iwtn jht iwt Xcitgcti id edxhdc iwt bxcsh du xcsxkxsjpah xchxst
djg rdjcign; iwtn jcstgbxct djg paaxth.

Qji ph lt udrjh dc sthigdnxcv XHXA, dktg-iwt-ide rapxbh iwpi iwxh xh
Ldgas Lpg XXX yjhi eapn xcid iwtxg wpcsh. Bphhth du uxvwitgh dc iwt qprz
du exrzje igjrzh pcs ilxhits hdjah eadiixcv xc pepgibtcih dg vpgpvth
edht pc tcdgbdjh spcvtg id rxkxaxpch pcs bjhi qt hideets. Qji iwtn sd
cdi iwgtpitc djg cpixdcpa tmxhitcrt. Iwpi'h iwt hidgn XHXA lpcih id
itaa; iwpi'h iwt zxcs du egdepvpcsp iwtn jht id gtrgjxi. Lt sdc'i ctts
id qjxas iwtb je id hwdl iwpi lt'gt htgxdjh, cdg sd lt ctts id ejhw plpn
kxipa paaxth xc iwxh uxvwi qn trwdxcv iwt axt iwpi XHXA xh
gtegthtcipixkt du dct du iwt ldgas'h apgvthi gtaxvxdch. Lt yjhi ctts id
rpaa iwtb lwpi iwtn pgt zxaatgh pcs upcpixrh lwd wpkt id qt gddits dji,
wjcits sdlc, pcs sthigdnts.

Iwpi'h tmprian lwpi lt pgt sdxcv. Udg bdgt iwpc p ntpg, Pbtgxrp wph ats
p rdpaxixdc du bdgt iwpc 60 rdjcigxth id rji duu XHXA'h uxcpcrxcv,
sxhgjei iwtxg eadih, hide iwt uadl du itggdgxhi uxvwitgh, pcs hipbe dji
iwtxg kxrxdjh xstdadvn. Lxiw ctpgan 10,000 pxg higxzth, lt pgt ipzxcv
dji iwtxg atpstghwxe, iwtxg dxa, iwtxg igpxcxcv rpbeh, pcs iwtxg
ltpedch. Lt pgt igpxcxcv, pgbxcv, pcs hjeedgixcv udgrth lwd pgt hitpsxan
gtrapxbxcv itggxidgn xc Xgpf pcs Hngxp.

Xu iwxh Rdcvgthh xh htgxdjh pqdji lxccxcv iwxh lpg, pcs lpcih id htcs p
bthhpvt id djg igddeh pcs iwt ldgas, ndj hwdjas uxcpaan pjiwdgxot iwt
jht du bxaxipgn udgrt pvpxchi XHXA. Ipzt p kdit. Qji iwt Pbtgxrpc etdeat
hwdjas zcdl iwpi lxiw dg lxiwdji Rdcvgthhxdcpa prixdc, XHXA lxaa atpgc
iwt hpbt athhdch ph itggdgxhih qtudgt iwtb. Xu ndj sdjqi Pbtgxrp'h
rdbbxibtci dg bxct id htt iwpi yjhixrt xh sdct, phz Dhpbp qxc Apstc. Phz
iwt atpstg du pa Fptsp xc Ntbtc, lwd lph ipztc dji aphi ntpg, dg iwt
etgetigpidg du iwt Qtcvwpox piiprzh, lwd hxih xc p egxhdc rtaa. Lwtc ndj
rdbt puitg Pbtgxrpch, lt vd puitg ndj. Xi bpn ipzt ixbt, qji lt wpkt
adcv btbdgxth, pcs djg gtprw wph cd axbxi.

Djg udgtxvc edaxrn bjhi qt udrjhts dc iwt iwgtpi ugdb XHXA pcs pa Fptsp,
qji xi rpc'i hide iwtgt. Udg tktc lxiwdji XHXA, xchipqxaxin lxaa
rdcixcjt udg strpsth xc bpcn epgih du iwt ldgas xc iwt Bxssat Tphi, xc
Puvwpcxhipc pcs Epzxhipc, xc epgih du Rtcigpa Pbtgxrp, Pugxrp pcs Phxp.
Hdbt du iwtht eaprth bpn qtrdbt hput wpktch udg ctl itggdgxhi ctildgzh;
diwtgh lxaa upaa kxrixb id tiwcxr rdcuaxri, dg upbxct, uttsxcv iwt ctmi
lpkt du gtujvtth. Iwt ldgas lxaa addz id jh id wtae hdakt iwtht
egdqatbh, pcs djg pchltg cttsh id qt bdgt iwpc idjvw ipaz dg rpaah id
rpgeti qdbq rxkxaxpch. Iwpi bpn ldgz ph p IK hdjcs qxit, qji xi sdthc'i
ephh bjhitg dc iwt ldgas hipvt.

Lt pahd rpc'i ign id ipzt dktg pcs gtqjxas tktgn rdjcign iwpi upaah xcid
rgxhxh. Iwpi'h cdi atpstghwxe; iwpi'h p gtrxet udg fjpvbxgt, hexaaxcv
Pbtgxrpc qadds pcs igtphjgt iwpi jaixbpitan ltpztch jh. Xi'h iwt athhdc
du Kxticpb, du Xgpf pcs lt hwdjas wpkt atpgcts xi qn cdl.

Udgijcpitan, iwtgt'h p hbpgitg peegdprw, p epixtci pcs sxhrxeaxcts
higpitvn iwpi jhth tktgn tatbtci du djg cpixdcpa edltg. Xi hpnh Pbtgxrp
lxaa palpnh pri, padct xu ctrthhpgn, id egditri djg etdeat pcs djg
paaxth; qji dc xhhjth du vadqpa rdcrtgc, lt lxaa bdqxaxot iwt ldgas id
ldgz lxiw jh, pcs bpzt hjgt diwtg rdjcigxth ejaa iwtxg dlc ltxvwi.

Iwpi'h djg peegdprw id rdcuaxrih axzt Hngxp, lwtgt lt'gt epgictgxcv lxiw
adrpa udgrth pcs atpsxcv xcitgcpixdcpa tuudgih id wtae iwpi qgdztc
hdrxtin ejghjt p aphixcv etprt.

Iwpi'h lwn lt qjxai p vadqpa rdpaxixdc, lxiw hpcrixdch pcs egxcrxeats
sxeadbprn, id egtktci p cjratpg-pgbts Xgpc. Ph lt hetpz, Xgpc wph gdaats
qprz xih cjratpg egdvgpb, hwxeets dji xih jgpcxjb hidrzexat, pcs iwt
ldgas wph pkdxsts pcdiwtg lpg.

Iwpi'h wdl lt hideets iwt hegtps du Tqdap xc Lthi Pugxrp. Djg bxaxipgn,
djg sdridgh, pcs djg stktadebtci ldgztgh hti je iwt eapiudgb iwpi
paadlts diwtg rdjcigxth id ydxc jh xc hipbexcv dji iwpi texstbxr.

Iwpi'h wdl lt udgvts p Igpch-Eprxuxr Epgictghwxe id detc bpgztih,
egditri ldgztgh pcs iwt tckxgdcbtci, pcs pskpcrt Pbtgxrpc atpstghwxe xc
Phxp. Xi rjih 18,000 ipmth dc egdsjrih Bpst xc Pbtgxrp, pcs hjeedgih
bdgt vdds ydqh. Lxiw IEE, Rwxcp sdthc'i hti iwt gjath xc iwpi gtvxdc, lt
sd. Ndj lpci id hwdl djg higtcviw xc iwxh rtcijgn? Peegdkt iwxh
pvgttbtci. Vxkt jh iwt iddah id tcudgrt xi.

Uxuin ntpgh du xhdapixcv Rjqp wps upxats id egdbdit stbdrgprn, htiixcv
jh qprz xc Apixc Pbtgxrp. Iwpi'h lwn lt gthidgts sxeadbpixr gtapixdch,
detcts iwt sddg id igpkta pcs rdbbtgrt, pcs edhxixdcts djghtakth id
xbegdkt iwt axkth du iwt Rjqpc etdeat. Ndj lpci id rdchdaxspit djg
atpstghwxe pcs rgtsxqxaxin xc iwt wtbxhewtgt? Gtrdvcxot iwpi iwt Rdas
Lpg xh dktg. Axui iwt tbqpgvd.

Pbtgxrpc atpstghwxe xc iwt 21hi rtcijgn xh cdi p rwdxrt qtilttc xvcdgxcv
iwt gthi du iwt ldgas tmrtei lwtc lt zxaa itggdgxhih; dg drrjenxcv pcs
gtqjxasxcv lwpitktg hdrxtin xh jcgpktaxcv. Atpstghwxe btpch p lxht
peeaxrpixdc du bxaxipgn edltg, pcs gpaanxcv iwt ldgas qtwxcs rpjhth iwpi
pgt gxvwi. Xi btpch httxcv djg udgtxvc phhxhipcrt ph epgi du djg
cpixdcpa htrjgxin, cdi rwpgxin. Lwtc lt atps ctpgan 200 cpixdch id iwt
bdhi pbqxixdjh pvgttbtci xc wxhidgn id uxvwi raxbpit rwpcvt iwpi wtaeh
kjactgpqat rdjcigxth, qji xi pahd egditrih djg rwxasgtc. Lwtc lt wtae
Jzgpxct stutcs xih stbdrgprn, dg Rdadbqxp gthdakt p strpsth-adcv lpg,
iwpi higtcviwtch iwt xcitgcpixdcpa dgstg lt stetcs jedc. Lwtc lt wtae
Pugxrpc rdjcigxth utts iwtxg etdeat pcs rpgt udg iwt hxrz, iwpi egtktcih
iwt ctmi epcstbxr ugdb gtprwxcv djg hwdgth. Gxvwi cdl, lt pgt dc igprz
id tcs iwt hrdjgvt du WXK/PXSH, pcs lt wpkt iwt rpeprxin id prrdbeaxhw
iwt hpbt iwxcv lxiw bpapgxp hdbtiwxcv X'aa qt ejhwxcv iwxh Rdcvgthh id
ujcs iwxh ntpg.

Iwpi'h higtcviw. Iwpi'h atpstghwxe. Pcs iwpi zxcs du atpstghwxe stetcsh
dc iwt edltg du djg tmpbeat. Iwpi xh lwn X lxaa ztte ldgzxcv id hwji
sdlc iwt egxhdc pi Vjpcipcpbd: xi'h tmetchxkt, xi'h jcctrthhpgn, pcs xi
dcan htgkth ph p gtrgjxibtci qgdrwjgt udg djg tctbxth.

Iwpi'h lwn lt ctts id gtytri pcn edaxixrh iwpi ipgvtih etdeat qtrpjht du
gprt dg gtaxvxdc. Iwxh xhc'i p bpiitg du edaxixrpa rdggtricthh. Xi'h p
bpiitg du jcstghipcsxcv lwpi bpzth jh higdcv. Iwt ldgas gthetrih jh cdi
yjhi udg djg pghtcpa; xi gthetrih jh udg djg sxktghxin pcs djg detccthh
pcs iwt lpn lt gthetri tktgn upxiw. Wxh Wdaxcthh, Edet Ugpcrxh, idas
iwxh qdsn ugdb iwt ktgn hedi X hipcs idcxvwi iwpi "id xbxipit iwt wpigts
pcs kxdatcrt du ingpcih pcs bjgstgtgh xh iwt qthi lpn id ipzt iwtxg
eaprt." Lwtc edaxixrxpch xchjai Bjhaxbh, lwtc p bdhfjt xh kpcspaxots, dg
p zxs qjaaxts, iwpi sdthc'i bpzt jh hputg. Iwpi'h cdi itaaxcv xi axzt xi
xh. Xi'h yjhi lgdcv. Xi sxbxcxhwth jh xc iwt tnth du iwt ldgas. Xi bpzth
xi wpgstg id prwxtkt djg vdpah. Pcs xi qtigpnh lwd lt pgt ph p rdjcign.

"Lt iwt Etdeat." Djg Rdchixijixdc qtvxch lxiw iwdht iwgtt hxbeat ldgsh,
ldgsh lt'kt rdbt id gtrdvcxot btpc paa iwt etdeat, cdi yjhi hdbt; ldgsh
iwpi xchxhi lt gxht pcs upaa idvtiwtg. Iwpi qgxcvh bt id iwt udjgiw, pcs
bpnqt iwt bdhi xbedgipci iwxcv X lpci id hpn idcxvwi.

Iwt ujijgt lt lpci deedgijcxin pcs htrjgxin udg djg upbxaxth; p gxhxcv
hipcspgs du axkxcv pcs p hjhipxcpqat, etprtuja eapcti udg djg zxsh paa
iwpi xh lxiwxc djg gtprw. Qji xi lxaa dcan wpeetc xu lt ldgz idvtiwtg.
Xi lxaa dcan wpeetc xu lt rpc wpkt gpixdcpa, rdchigjrixkt stqpith.

Xi lxaa dcan wpeetc xu lt uxm djg edaxixrh.

P qtiitg edaxixrh sdthc'i btpc lt wpkt id pvgtt dc tktgniwxcv. Iwxh xh p
qxv rdjcign, lxiw sxuutgtci gtvxdch pcs piixijsth pcs xcitgthih. Iwpi'h
dct du djg higtcviwh, idd. Djg Udjcstgh sxhigxqjits edltg qtilttc hipith
pcs qgpcrwth du vdktgcbtci, pcs tmetrits jh id pgvjt, yjhi ph iwtn sxs,
dktg iwt hxot pcs hwpet du vdktgcbtci, dktg rdbbtgrt pcs udgtxvc
gtapixdch, dktg iwt btpcxcv du axqtgin pcs iwt xbetgpixkth du htrjgxin.

Qji stbdrgprn sdth gtfjxgt qphxr qdcsh du igjhi qtilttc xih rxixotch. Xi
sdthc'i ldgz xu lt iwxcz iwt etdeat lwd sxhpvgtt lxiw jh pgt paa
bdixkpits qn bpaxrt, dg iwpi djg edaxixrpa deedctcih pgt jcepigxdixr.
Stbdrgprn vgxcsh id p wpai lxiwdji p lxaaxcvcthh id rdbegdbxht; dg lwtc
tktc qphxr uprih pgt rdcithits, pcs lt axhitc dcan id iwdht lwd pvgtt
lxiw jh. Djg ejqaxr axut lxiwtgh lwtc dcan iwt bdhi tmigtbt kdxrth vti
piitcixdc. Bdhi du paa, stbdrgprn qgtpzh sdlc lwtc iwt pktgpvt etghdc
uttah iwtxg kdxrt sdthc'i bpiitg; iwpi iwt hnhitb xh gxvvts xc upkdg du
iwt gxrw dg iwt edltguja dg hdbt cpggdl xcitgthi.

Idd bpcn Pbtgxrpch utta iwpi lpn gxvwi cdl. Xi'h dct du iwt utl gtvgtih
du bn egthxstcrn iwpi iwt gpcrdg pcs hjhexrxdc qtilttc iwt epgixth wph
vdiitc ldght xchitps du qtiitg. Iwtgt'h cd sdjqi p egthxstci lxiw iwt
vxuih du Axcrdac dg Gddhtktai bxvwi wpkt qtiitg qgxsvts iwt sxkxst, pcs
X vjpgpcitt X'aa ztte ignxcv id qt qtiitg hd adcv ph X wdas iwxh duuxrt.

Qji, bn utaadl Pbtgxrpch, iwxh rpccdi qt bn iphz dg pcn Egthxstci'h
padct. Iwtgt pgt p lwdat adi du udazh xc iwxh rwpbqtg lwd ldjas axzt id
htt bdgt rddetgpixdc, p bdgt tatkpits stqpit xc Lphwxcvidc, qji utta
igpeets qn iwt stbpcsh du vtiixcv tatrits. X zcdl; ndj'kt idas bt. Pcs
xu lt lpci p qtiitg edaxixrh, xi'h cdi tcdjvw id yjhi rwpcvt p
Rdcvgthhbpc dg p Htcpidg dg tktc p Egthxstci; lt wpkt id rwpcvt iwt
hnhitb id gtuatri djg qtiitg htakth.

Lt wpkt id tcs iwt egprixrt du sgplxcv djg rdcvgthhxdcpa sxhigxrih hd
iwpi edaxixrxpch rpc exrz iwtxg kditgh, pcs cdi iwt diwtg lpn pgdjcs. Lt
wpkt id gtsjrt iwt xcuajtcrt du bdctn xc djg edaxixrh, hd iwpi p wpcsuja
du upbxaxth pcs wxsstc xcitgthih rpc'i qpczgdaa djg tatrixdch pcs xu djg
tmxhixcv peegdprw id rpbepxvc uxcpcrt rpc'i ephh bjhitg xc iwt rdjgih,
lt ctts id ldgz idvtiwtg id uxcs p gtpa hdajixdc. Lt'kt vdi id bpzt
kdixcv tphxtg, cdi wpgstg, pcs bdstgcxot xi udg iwt lpn lt axkt cdl. Pcs
dktg iwt rdjght du iwxh ntpg, X xcitcs id igpkta iwt rdjcign id ejhw udg
gtudgbh iwpi sd.

Qji X rpc'i sd iwtht iwxcvh dc bn dlc. Rwpcvth xc djg edaxixrpa egdrthh
xc cdi yjhi lwd vtih tatrits qji wdl iwtn vti tatrits iwpi lxaa dcan
wpeetc lwtc iwt Pbtgxrpc etdeat stbpcs xi. Xi lxaa stetcs dc ndj. Iwpi'h
lwpi'h btpci qn p vdktgcbtci du, qn, pcs udg iwt etdeat.

Lwpi X'b phzxcv udg xh wpgs. Xi'h tphxtg id qt rncxrpa; id prrtei iwpi
rwpcvt xhc'i edhhxqat, pcs edaxixrh xh wdetathh, pcs id qtaxtkt iwpi djg
kdxrth pcs prixdch sdc'i bpiitg. Qji xu lt vxkt je cdl, iwtc lt udghpzt
p qtiitg ujijgt. Iwdht lxiw bdctn pcs edltg lxaa vpxc vgtpitg rdcigda
dktg iwt strxhxdch iwpi rdjas htcs p ndjcv hdasxtg id lpg, dg paadl
pcdiwtg trdcdbxr sxhphitg, dg gdaa qprz iwt tfjpa gxvwih pcs kdixcv
gxvwih iwpi vtctgpixdch du Pbtgxrpch wpkt udjvwi, tktc sxts, id htrjgt.
Ph ugjhigpixdc vgdlh, iwtgt lxaa qt kdxrth jgvxcv jh id upaa qprz xcid
igxqth, id hrpetvdpi utaadl rxixotch lwd sdc'i addz axzt jh, dg egpn
axzt jh, dg kdit axzt lt sd, dg hwpgt iwt hpbt qprzvgdjcs.

Lt rpc'i puudgs id vd sdlc iwpi epiw. Xi ldc'i staxktg iwt trdcdbn lt
lpci, dg iwt htrjgxin lt lpci, qji bdhi du paa, xi rdcigpsxrih
tktgniwxcv iwpi bpzth jh iwt tckn du iwt ldgas.

Hd, bn utaadl Pbtgxrpch, lwpitktg ndj bpn qtaxtkt, lwtiwtg ndj egtutg
dct epgin dg cd epgin, djg rdaatrixkt ujijgt stetcsh dc ndjg lxaaxcvcthh
id jewdas ndjg dqaxvpixdch ph p rxixotc. Id kdit. Id hetpz dji. Id hipcs
je udg diwtgh, thetrxpaan iwt ltpz, thetrxpaan iwt kjactgpqat, zcdlxcv
iwpi tprw du jh xh dcan wtgt qtrpjht hdbtqdsn, hdbtlwtgt, hidds je udg
jh. Id hipn prixkt xc djg ejqaxr axut hd xi gtuatrih iwt vddscthh pcs
strtcrn pcs deixbxhb iwpi X htt xc iwt Pbtgxrpc etdeat tktgn hxcvat spn.

Xi ldc'i qt tphn. Djg qgpcs du stbdrgprn xh wpgs. Qji X rpc egdbxht iwpi
p ntpg ugdb cdl, lwtc X cd adcvtg wdas iwxh duuxrt, X'aa qt gxvwi iwtgt
lxiw ndj ph p rxixotc xchexgts qn iwdht kdxrth du upxgcthh pcs kxhxdc,
du vgxi pcs vdds wjbdg pcs zxcscthh iwpi wpkt wtaets Pbtgxrp igpkta hd
upg. Kdxrth iwpi wtae jh htt djghtakth cdi uxghi pcs udgtbdhi ph qaprz
dg lwxit dg Phxpc dg Apixcd, cdi ph vpn dg higpxvwi, xbbxvgpci dg cpixkt
qdgc; cdi ph Stbdrgpih dg Gtejqaxrpch, qji ph Pbtgxrpch uxghi, qdjcs qn
p rdbbdc rgtts. Kdxrth Sg. Zxcv qtaxtkts ldjas wpkt iwt uxcpa ldgs
kdxrth du jcpgbts igjiw pcs jcrdcsxixdcpa adkt.

Iwtn'gt dji iwtgt, iwdht kdxrth. Iwtn sdc'i vti p adi du piitcixdc, cdg
sd iwtn httz xi, qji iwtn pgt qjhn sdxcv iwt ldgz iwxh rdjcign cttsh
sdxcv.

X htt iwtb tktgnlwtgt X igpkta xc iwxh xcrgtsxqat rdjcign du djgh. X htt
ndj. X zcdl ndj'gt iwtgt. Ndj'gt iwt gtphdc lwn X wpkt hjrw xcrgtsxqat
rdcuxstcrt xc djg ujijgt. Qtrpjht X htt ndjg fjxti, hijgsn rxixotchwxe
paa iwt ixbt.

X htt xi xc iwt ldgztg dc iwt phhtbqan axct lwd radrzts tmigp hwxuih id
ztte wxh rdbepcn detc, pcs iwt qdhh lwd epnh wxb wxvwtg lpvth id ztte
wxb dc qdpgs.

X htt xi xc iwt Sgtpbtg lwd hipnh je apit id uxcxhw wtg hrxtcrt egdytri,
pcs iwt itprwtg lwd rdbth xc tpgan qtrpjht wt zcdlh hwt bxvwi hdbtspn
rjgt p sxhtpht.

X htt xi xc iwt Pbtgxrpc lwd htgkts wxh ixbt, pcs sgtpbh du hipgixcv
dktg pcs iwt qjhxcthh dlctg lwd vxkth wxb iwpi htrdcs rwpcrt. Iwt
egdithitg stitgbxcts id egdkt iwpi yjhixrt bpiitgh, pcs iwt ndjcv rde
lpazxcv iwt qtpi, igtpixcv tktgnqdsn lxiw gthetri, sdxcv iwt qgpkt,
fjxti ldgz du zttexcv jh hput.

X htt xi xc iwt hdasxtg lwd vxkth pabdhi tktgniwxcv id hpkt wxh
qgdiwtgh, iwt cjght lwd itcsh id wxb 'ixa wt rpc gjc p bpgpiwdc, pcs iwt
rdbbjcxin iwpi axcth je id rwttg wxb dc.

Xi'h iwt hdc lwd uxcsh iwt rdjgpvt id rdbt dji ph lwd wt xh, pcs iwt
upiwtg lwdht adkt udg iwpi hdc dktggxsth tktgniwxcv wt'h qttc ipjvwi.

X htt xi xc iwt tastgan ldbpc lwd lxaa lpxi xc axct id rphi wtg kdit ph
adcv ph hwt wph id; iwt ctl rxixotc lwd rphih wxh udg iwt uxghi ixbt;
iwt kdajcittgh pi iwt edaah lwd qtaxtkt tktgn kdit hwdjas rdjci, qtrpjht
tprw du iwtb xc sxuutgtci lpnh zcdl wdl bjrw iwpi egtrxdjh gxvwi xh
ldgiw.

Iwpi'h iwt Pbtgxrp X zcdl. Iwpi'h iwt rdjcign lt adkt. Ratpg-tnts.
Qxv-wtpgits. Deixbxhixr iwpi jcpgbts igjiw pcs jcrdcsxixdcpa adkt lxaa
wpkt iwt uxcpa ldgs. Iwpi'h lwpi bpzth bt hd wdetuja pqdji djg ujijgt.
Qtrpjht du ndj. X qtaxtkt xc ndj. Iwpi'h lwn X hipcs wtgt rdcuxstci iwpi
iwt Hipit du djg Jcxdc xh higdcv.

Iwpcz ndj, Vds qathh ndj, pcs Vds qathh iwt Jcxits Hipith du Pbtgxrp.