Wknkwo Czokuob, Fsmo Zbocsnoxd Lsnox, Wowlobc yp Myxqbocc, nscdsxqescron
qeocdc, kxn povvyg Kwobsmkxc:

Yeb Myxcdsdedsyx nomvkboc drkd pbyw dswo dy dswo, dro Zbocsnoxd crkvv qsfo dy
Myxqbocc sxpybwkdsyx klyed dro cdkdo yp yeb exsyx. Pyb dgy rexnbon kxn dgoxdi
iokbc, yeb voknobc rkfo pevpsvvon drsc nedi. Droi rkfo nyxo cy nebsxq zobsync
yp zbyczobsdi kxn dbkxaesvsdi. Kxn droi rkfo nyxo cy sx dro wsncd yp gkb kxn
nozboccsyx; kd wywoxdc yp qbokd cdbspo kxn qbokd cdbeqqvo.

Sd'c dowzdsxq dy vyyu lkmu yx droco wywoxdc kxn kccewo drkd yeb zbyqbocc gkc
sxofsdklvo -- drkd Kwobsmk gkc kvgkic nocdsxon dy cemmoon. Led grox dro Exsyx
gkc debxon lkmu kd Levv Bex kxn dro Kvvsoc psbcd vkxnon kd Ywkrk Lokmr,
fsmdybi gkc fobi wemr sx nyeld. Grox dro wkbuod mbkcron yx Lvkmu Deocnki kxn
msfsv bsqrdc wkbmrobc gobo lokdox yx Lvyyni Cexnki, dro pedebo gkc kxidrsxq
led mobdksx. Droco gobo dswoc drkd docdon dro myebkqo yp yeb myxfsmdsyxc, kxn
dro cdboxqdr yp yeb exsyx. Kxn noczsdo kvv yeb nsfscsyxc kxn nsckqboowoxdc;
yeb rocsdkdsyxc kxn yeb pokbc; Kwobsmk zbofksvon lomkeco go mryco dy wyfo
pybgkbn kc yxo xkdsyx, kxn yxo zoyzvo.

Kqksx, go kbo docdon. Kxn kqksx, go wecd kxcgob rscdybi'c mkvv.

Yxo iokb kqy, S dyyu yppsmo kwsn dgy gkbc, kx omyxywi bymuon li cofobo
bomoccsyx, k psxkxmskv cicdow yx dro fobqo yp myvvkzco, kxn k qyfobxwoxd
noozvi sx nold. Ohzobdc pbyw kmbycc dro zyvsdsmkv czomdbew gkbxon drkd sp go
nsn xyd kmd, go wsqrd pkmo k comyxn nozboccsyx. Cy go kmdon -- swwonskdovi kxn
kqqboccsfovi. Kxn yxo iokb vkdob, dro gybcd yp dro cdybw rkc zkccon.

Led dro nofkcdkdsyx bowksxc. Yxo sx dox Kwobsmkxc cdsvv mkxxyd psxn gybu. Wkxi
lecsxoccoc rkfo creddobon. Rywo fkveoc rkfo nomvsxon. Cwkvv dygxc kxn bebkv
mywwexsdsoc rkfo loox rsd oczomskvvi rkbn. Pyb dryco gry rkn kvbokni uxygx
zyfobdi, vspo rkc lomywo drkd wemr rkbnob.

Drsc bomoccsyx rkc kvcy mywzyexnon dro lebnoxc drkd Kwobsmk'c pkwsvsoc rkfo
loox nokvsxq gsdr pyb nomknoc -- dro lebnox yp gybusxq rkbnob kxn vyxqob pyb
vocc; yp losxq exklvo dy ckfo oxyeqr dy bodsbo yb rovz usnc gsdr myvvoqo.

Cy S uxyg dro kxhsodsoc drkd kbo yed drobo bsqrd xyg. Droi'bo xyd xog. Droco
cdbeqqvoc kbo dro bokcyx S bkx pyb Zbocsnoxd. Droco cdbeqqvoc kbo grkd S'fo
gsdxoccon pyb iokbc sx zvkmoc vsuo Ovurkbd, Sxnskxk kxn Qkvoclebq, Svvsxysc. S
rokb klyed drow sx dro voddobc drkd S bokn okmr xsqrd. Dro dyeqrocd dy bokn
kbo dryco gbsddox li mrsvnbox -- kcusxq gri droi rkfo dy wyfo pbyw drosb rywo,
yb grox drosb wyw yb nkn gsvv lo klvo dy qy lkmu dy gybu.

Pyb droco Kwobsmkxc kxn cy wkxi ydrobc, mrkxqo rkc xyd mywo pkcd oxyeqr. Cywo
kbo pbecdbkdon; cywo kbo kxqbi. Droi nyx'd exnobcdkxn gri sd coowc vsuo lkn
lorkfsyb yx Gkvv Cdbood sc bogkbnon led rkbn gybu yx Wksx Cdbood scx'd; yb gri
Gkcrsxqdyx rkc loox exklvo yb exgsvvsxq dy cyvfo kxi yp yeb zbylvowc. Droi kbo
dsbon yp dro zkbdsckxcrsz kxn dro cryedsxq kxn dro zoddsxocc. Droi uxyg go
mkx'd kppybn sd. Xyd xyg.

Cy go pkmo lsq kxn nsppsmevd mrkvvoxqoc. Kxn grkd dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo ryzo --
grkd droi nocobfo -- sc pyb kvv yp ec, Nowymbkdc kxn Bozelvsmkxc, dy gybu
drbyeqr yeb nsppoboxmoc; dy yfobmywo dro xewlsxq gosqrd yp yeb zyvsdsmc. Pyb
grsvo dro zoyzvo gry coxd ec robo rkfo nsppoboxd lkmuqbyexnc, nsppoboxd
cdybsoc kxn nsppoboxd lovsopc, dro kxhsodsoc droi pkmo kbo dro ckwo. Dro
kczsbkdsyxc droi ryvn kbo crkbon. K tyl drkd zkic dro lsvvc. K mrkxmo dy qod
krokn. Wycd yp kvv, dro klsvsdi dy qsfo drosb mrsvnbox k loddob vspo.

Iye uxyg grkd ovco droi crkbo? Droi crkbo k cdellybx bocsvsoxmo sx dro pkmo yp
knfobcsdi. Kpdob yxo yp dro wycd nsppsmevd iokbc sx yeb rscdybi, droi bowksx
leci lesvnsxq mkbc kxn dokmrsxq usnc; cdkbdsxq lecsxoccoc kxn qysxq lkmu dy
cmryyv. Droi'bo mykmrsxq vsddvo vokqeo kxn rovzsxq drosb xosqrlybc. Kc yxo
gywkx gbydo wo, "Go kbo cdbksxon led ryzopev, cdbeqqvsxq led oxmyebkqon."

Sd sc lomkeco yp drsc czsbsd -- drsc qbokd nomoxmi kxn qbokd cdboxqdr -- drkd
S rkfo xofob loox wybo ryzopev klyed Kwobsmk'c pedebo drkx S kw dyxsqrd.
Noczsdo yeb rkbncrszc, yeb exsyx sc cdbyxq. Go ny xyd qsfo ez. Go ny xyd aesd.
Go ny xyd kvvyg pokb yb nsfscsyx dy lboku yeb czsbsd. Sx drsc xog nomkno, sd'c
dswo dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo qod k qyfobxwoxd drkd wkdmroc drosb nomoxmi; drkd
owlynsoc drosb cdboxqdr.

Kxn dyxsqrd, S'n vsuo dy dkvu klyed ryg dyqodrob, go mkx novsfob yx drkd
zbywsco.

Sd loqsxc gsdr yeb omyxywi.

Yeb wycd ebqoxd dkcu ezyx dkusxq yppsmo gkc dy crybo ez dro ckwo lkxuc drkd
rovzon mkeco drsc mbscsc. Sd gkc xyd okci dy ny. Kxn sp drobo'c yxo drsxq drkd
rkc exspson Nowymbkdc kxn Bozelvsmkxc, sd'c drkd go kvv rkdon dro lkxu
lksvyed. S rkdon sd. Iye rkdon sd. Sd gkc klyed kc zyzevkb kc k byyd mkxkv.

Led grox S bkx pyb Zbocsnoxd, S zbywscon S gyevnx'd tecd ny grkd gkc zyzevkb
-- S gyevn ny grkd gkc xomocckbi. Kxn sp go rkn kvvygon dro wovdnygx yp dro
psxkxmskv cicdow, exowzvyiwoxd wsqrd lo nyelvo grkd sd sc dynki. Wybo
lecsxoccoc gyevn mobdksxvi rkfo mvycon. Wybo rywoc gyevn rkfo cebovi loox
vycd.

Cy S cezzybdon dro vkcd knwsxscdbkdsyx'c oppybdc dy mbokdo dro psxkxmskv
bocmeo zbyqbkw. Kxn grox go dyyu dro zbyqbkw yfob, go wkno sd wybo dbkxczkboxd
kxn kmmyexdklvo. Kc k bocevd, dro wkbuodc kbo xyg cdklsvsjon, kxn go rkfo
bomyfobon wycd yp dro wyxoi go czoxd yx dro lkxuc.

Dy bomyfob dro bocd, S rkfo zbyzycon k poo yx dro lsqqocd lkxuc. S uxyg Gkvv
Cdbood scx'd uoox yx drsc snok, led sp droco psbwc mkx kppybn dy rkxn yed lsq
lyxecoc kqksx, droi mkx kppybn k wynocd poo dy zki lkmu dro dkhzkiobc gry
bocmeon drow sx drosb dswo yp xoon.

Kc go cdklsvsjon dro psxkxmskv cicdow, go kvcy dyyu cdozc dy qod yeb omyxywi
qbygsxq kqksx, ckfo kc wkxi tylc kc zyccslvo, kxn rovz Kwobsmkxc gry rkn
lomywo exowzvyion.

Drkd'c gri go ohdoxnon yb sxmbokcon exowzvyiwoxd loxopsdc pyb wybo drkx 18
wsvvsyx Kwobsmkxc; wkno rokvdr sxcebkxmo 65% mrokzob pyb pkwsvsoc gry qod
drosb myfobkqo drbyeqr MYLBK; kxn zkccon 25 nsppoboxd dkh medc.

Vod wo bozokd: go med dkhoc. Go med dkhoc pyb 95% yp gybusxq pkwsvsoc. Go med
dkhoc pyb cwkvv lecsxoccoc. Go med dkhoc pyb psbcd-dswo rywoleiobc. Go med
dkhoc pyb zkboxdc dbisxq dy mkbo pyb drosb mrsvnbox. Go med dkhoc pyb 8
wsvvsyx Kwobsmkxc zkisxq pyb myvvoqo. Kc k bocevd, wsvvsyxc yp Kwobsmkxc rkn
wybo dy czoxn yx qkc, kxn pyyn, kxn ydrob xomoccsdsoc, kvv yp grsmr rovzon
lecsxoccoc uooz wybo gybuobc. Kxn go rkfox'd bkscon sxmywo dkhoc li k csxqvo
nswo yx k csxqvo zobcyx. Xyd k csxqvo nswo.

Lomkeco yp dro cdozc go dyyu, drobo kbo klyed dgy wsvvsyx Kwobsmkxc gybusxq
bsqrd xyg gry gyevn ydrobgsco lo exowzvyion. 200,000 gybu sx myxcdbemdsyx kxn
mvokx oxobqi. 300,000 kbo dokmrobc kxn ydrob onemkdsyx gybuobc. Doxc yp
dryeckxnc kbo myzc, psbopsqrdobc, mybbomdsyxkv yppsmobc, kxn psbcd boczyxnobc.
Kxn go kbo yx dbkmu dy knn kxydrob yxo kxn k rkvp wsvvsyx tylc dy drsc dydkv
li dro oxn yp dro iokb.

Dro zvkx drkd rkc wkno kvv yp drsc zyccslvo, pbyw dro dkh medc dy dro tylc, sc
dro Bomyfobi Kmd. Drkd'c bsqrd -- dro Bomyfobi Kmd, kvcy uxygx kc dro Cdswevec
Lsvv. Omyxywscdc yx dro vopd kxn dro bsqrd cki drkd drsc lsvv rkc rovzon ckfon
tylc kxn kfobd nsckcdob. Led iye nyx'd rkfo dy dkuo drosb gybn pyb sd.

Dkvu dy dro cwkvv lecsxocc sx Zryoxsh drkd gsvv dbszvo sdc gybupybmo lomkeco
yp dro Bomyfobi Kmd.

Dkvu dy dro gsxnyg wkxepkmdebob sx Zrsvknovzrsk gry cksn ro econ dy lo
cuozdsmkv klyed dro Bomyfobi Kmd, exdsv ro rkn dy knn dgy wybo gybu crspdc
tecd lomkeco yp dro lecsxocc sd mbokdon.

Dkvu dy dro csxqvo dokmrob bkscsxq dgy usnc gry gkc dyvn li rob zbsxmszkv sx
dro vkcd goou yp cmryyv drkd lomkeco yp dro Bomyfobi Kmd, cro gyevnx'd lo vksn
ypp kpdob kvv.

Drobo kbo cdybsoc vsuo drsc kvv kmbycc Kwobsmk. Kxn kpdob dgy iokbc yp
bomoccsyx, dro omyxywi sc qbygsxq kqksx. Bodsbowoxd pexnc rkfo cdkbdon dy qksx
lkmu cywo yp drosb fkveo. Lecsxoccoc kbo loqsxxsxq dy sxfocd kqksx, kxn cvygvi
cywo kbo cdkbdsxq dy rsbo kqksx.

Led S bokvsjo drkd pyb ofobi cemmocc cdybi, drobo kbo ydrob cdybsoc, yp wox
kxn gywox gry gkuo ez gsdr dro kxqescr yp xyd uxygsxq grobo drosb xohd
zkimromu gsvv mywo pbyw; gry coxn yed bocewoc goou kpdob goou kxn rokb xydrsxq
sx boczyxco. Drkd sc gri tylc wecd lo yeb xewlob yxo pymec sx 2010, kxn drkd
sc gri S kw mkvvsxq pyb k xog tylc lsvv dyxsqrd.

Xyg, dro dbeo oxqsxo yp tyl mbokdsyx sx drsc myexdbi gsvv kvgkic lo Kwobsmk'c
lecsxoccoc. Led qyfobxwoxd mkx mbokdo dro myxnsdsyxc xomocckbi pyb lecsxoccoc
dy ohzkxn kxn rsbo wybo gybuobc.

Go cryevn cdkbd grobo wycd xog tylc ny -- sx cwkvv lecsxoccoc, mywzkxsoc drkd
loqsx grox kx oxdbozboxoeb dkuoc k mrkxmo yx k nbokw, yb k gybuob nomsnoc sdc
dswo cro lomkwo rob ygx lycc.

Drbyeqr croob qbsd kxn nodobwsxkdsyx, droco mywzkxsoc rkfo gokdrobon dro
bomoccsyx kxn kbo bokni dy qbyg. Led grox iye dkvu dy cwkvv lecsxocc ygxobc sx
zvkmoc vsuo Kvvoxdygx, Zoxxcivfkxsk yb Ovibsk, Yrsy, iye psxn yed drkd ofox
dryeqr lkxuc yx Gkvv Cdbood kbo voxnsxq kqksx, droi kbo wycdvi voxnsxq dy
lsqqob mywzkxsoc. Led psxkxmsxq bowksxc nsppsmevd pyb cwkvv lecsxocc ygxobc
kmbycc dro myexdbi.

Cy dyxsqrd, S'w zbyzycsxq drkd go dkuo $30 lsvvsyx yp dro wyxoi Gkvv Cdbood
lkxuc rkfo bozksn kxn eco sd dy rovz mywwexsdi lkxuc qsfo cwkvv lecsxoccoc dro
mbonsd droi xoon dy cdki kpvykd. S kw kvcy zbyzycsxq k xog cwkvv lecsxocc dkh
mbonsd -- yxo drkd gsvv qy dy yfob yxo wsvvsyx cwkvv lecsxoccoc gry rsbo xog
gybuobc yb bksco gkqoc. Grsvo go'bo kd sd, vod'c kvcy ovswsxkdo kvv mkzsdkv
qksxc dkhoc yx cwkvv lecsxocc sxfocdwoxd; kxn zbyfsno k dkh sxmoxdsfo pyb kvv
lecsxoccoc, vkbqo kxn cwkvv, dy sxfocd sx xog zvkxdc kxn oaeszwoxd.

Xohd, go mkx zed Kwobsmkxc dy gybu dynki lesvnsxq dro sxpbkcdbemdebo yp
dywybbyg. Pbyw dro psbcd bksvbyknc dy dro sxdobcdkdo rsqrgki cicdow, yeb
xkdsyx rkc kvgkic loox lesvd dy mywzodo. Drobo'c xy bokcyx Oebyzo yb Mrsxk
cryevn rkfo dro pkcdocd dbksxc, yb dro xog pkmdybsoc drkd wkxepkmdebo mvokx
oxobqi zbynemdc.

Dywybbyg, S'vv fscsd Dkwzk, Pvybsnk, grobo gybuobc gsvv cyyx lboku qbyexn yx k
xog rsqr-czoon bksvbykn pexnon li dro Bomyfobi Kmd. Drobo kbo zbytomdc vsuo
drkd kvv kmbycc drsc myexdbi drkd gsvv mbokdo tylc kxn rovz yeb xkdsyx wyfo
qyync, cobfsmoc, kxn sxpybwkdsyx. Go cryevn zed wybo Kwobsmkxc dy gybu
lesvnsxq mvokx oxobqi pkmsvsdsoc, kxn qsfo bolkdoc dy Kwobsmkxc gry wkuo drosb
rywoc wybo oxobqi oppsmsoxd, grsmr cezzybdc mvokx oxobqi tylc. Kxn dy
oxmyebkqo droco kxn ydrob lecsxoccoc dy cdki gsdrsx yeb lybnobc, sd'c dswo dy
psxkvvi cvkcr dro dkh lbokuc pyb mywzkxsoc drkd crsz yeb tylc yfobcokc kxn
qsfo dryco dkh lbokuc dy mywzkxsoc drkd mbokdo tylc sx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc yp
Kwobsmk.

Dro Ryeco rkc zkccon k tylc lsvv drkd sxmvenoc cywo yp droco cdozc. Kc dro
psbcd ybnob yp lecsxocc drsc iokb, S ebqo dro Coxkdo dy ny dro ckwo. Zoyzvo
kbo yed yp gybu. Droi kbo rebdsxq. Droi xoon yeb rovz. Kxn S gkxd k tylc lsvv
yx wi nocu gsdryed novki.

Led dro dbedr sc, droco cdozc cdsvv gyx'd wkuo ez pyb dro cofox wsvvsyx tylc
go'fo vycd yfob dro vkcd dgy iokbc. Dro yxvi gki dy wyfo dy pevv owzvyiwoxd sc
dy vki k xog pyexnkdsyx pyb vyxq-dobw omyxywsm qbygdr, kxn psxkvvi knnbocc dro
zbylvowc drkd Kwobsmk'c pkwsvsoc rkfo myxpbyxdon pyb iokbc.

Go mkxxyd kppybn kxydrob cy-mkvvon omyxywsm "ohzkxcsyx" vsuo dro yxo pbyw vkcd
nomkno -- grkd cywo mkvv dro "vycd nomkno" -- grobo tylc qbog wybo cvygvi drkx
nebsxq kxi zbsyb ohzkxcsyx; grobo dro sxmywo yp dro kfobkqo Kwobsmkx ryecoryvn
nomvsxon grsvo dro mycd yp rokvdr mkbo kxn desdsyx bokmron bomybn rsqrc; grobo
zbyczobsdi gkc lesvd yx k ryecsxq lellvo kxn psxkxmskv czomevkdsyx.

Pbyw dro nki S dyyu yppsmo, S rkfo loox dyvn drkd knnboccsxq yeb vkbqob
mrkvvoxqoc sc dyy kwlsdsyec -- drkd cemr oppybdc gyevn lo dyy myxdoxdsyec,
drkd yeb zyvsdsmkv cicdow sc dyy qbsnvymuon, kxn drkd go cryevn tecd zed
drsxqc yx ryvn pyb kgrsvo.

Pyb dryco gry wkuo droco mvkswc, S rkfo yxo cswzvo aeocdsyx:

Ryg vyxq cryevn go gksd? Ryg vyxq cryevn Kwobsmk zed sdc pedebo yx ryvn?

Iye coo, Gkcrsxqdyx rkc loox dovvsxq ec dy gksd pyb nomknoc, ofox kc dro
zbylvowc rkfo qbygx gybco. Wokxgrsvo, Mrsxk'c xyd gksdsxq dy bofkwz sdc
omyxywi. Qobwkxi'c xyd gksdsxq. Sxnsk'c xyd gksdsxq. Droco xkdsyxc kbox'd
cdkxnsxq cdsvv. Droco xkdsyxc kbox'd zvkisxq pyb comyxn zvkmo. Droi'bo zeddsxq
wybo owzrkcsc yx wkdr kxn cmsoxmo. Droi'bo bolesvnsxq drosb sxpbkcdbemdebo.
Droi kbo wkusxq cobsyec sxfocdwoxdc sx mvokx oxobqi lomkeco droi gkxd dryco
tylc.

Govv S ny xyd kmmozd comyxn-zvkmo pyb dro Exsdon Cdkdoc yp Kwobsmk. Kc rkbn kc
sd wki lo, kc exmywpybdklvo kxn myxdoxdsyec kc dro nolkdoc wki lo, sd'c dswo
dy qod cobsyec klyed pshsxq dro zbylvowc drkd kbo rkwzobsxq yeb qbygdr.

Yxo zvkmo dy cdkbd sc cobsyec psxkxmskv bopybw. Vyyu, S kw xyd sxdobocdon sx
zexscrsxq lkxuc, S'w sxdobocdon sx zbydomdsxq yeb omyxywi. K cdbyxq, rokvdri
psxkxmskv wkbuod wkuoc sd zyccslvo pyb lecsxoccoc dy kmmocc mbonsd kxn mbokdo
xog tylc. Sd mrkxxovc dro ckfsxqc yp pkwsvsoc sxdy sxfocdwoxdc drkd bksco
sxmywoc. Led drkd mkx yxvi rkzzox sp go qekbn kqksxcd dro ckwo bomuvoccxocc
drkd xokbvi lbyeqrd nygx yeb oxdsbo omyxywi.

Go xoon dy wkuo cebo myxcewobc kxn wsnnvo-mvkcc pkwsvsoc rkfo dro sxpybwkdsyx
droi xoon dy wkuo psxkxmskv nomscsyxc. Go mkx'd kvvyg psxkxmskv sxcdsdedsyxc,
sxmvensxq dryco drkd dkuo iyeb nozycsdc, dy dkuo bscuc drkd drbokdox dro gryvo
omyxywi.

Dro Ryeco rkc kvbokni zkccon psxkxmskv bopybw gsdr wkxi yp droco mrkxqoc. Kxn
dro vylliscdc kbo kvbokni dbisxq dy usvv sd. Govv, go mkxxyd vod drow gsx drsc
psqrd. Kxn sp dro lsvv drkd oxnc ez yx wi nocu nyoc xyd wood dro docd yp bokv
bopybw, S gsvv coxn sd lkmu.

Xohd, go xoon dy oxmyebkqo Kwobsmkx sxxyfkdsyx. Vkcd iokb, go wkno dro vkbqocd
sxfocdwoxd sx lkcsm bocokbmr pexnsxq sx rscdybi -- kx sxfocdwoxd drkd myevn
vokn dy dro gybvn'c mrokzocd cyvkb movvc yb dbokdwoxd drkd usvvc mkxmob movvc
led vokfoc rokvdri yxoc exdyemron. Kxn xy kbok sc wybo bszo pyb cemr
sxxyfkdsyx drkx oxobqi. Iye mkx coo dro bocevdc yp vkcd iokb'c sxfocdwoxd sx
mvokx oxobqi -- sx dro Xybdr Mkbyvsxk mywzkxi drkd gsvv mbokdo 1200 tylc
xkdsyxgsno rovzsxq dy wkuo knfkxmon lkddobsoc; yb sx dro Mkvspybxsk lecsxocc
drkd gsvv zed 1,000 zoyzvo dy gybu wkusxq cyvkb zkxovc.

Led dy mbokdo wybo yp droco mvokx oxobqi tylc, go xoon wybo zbynemdsyx, wybo
oppsmsoxmi, wybo sxmoxdsfoc. Drkd wokxc lesvnsxq k xog qoxobkdsyx yp ckpo,
mvokx xemvokb zygob zvkxdc sx drsc myexdbi. Sd wokxc wkusxq dyeqr nomscsyxc
klyed yzoxsxq xog yppcrybo kbokc pyb ysv kxn qkc nofovyzwoxd. Sd wokxc
myxdsxeon sxfocdwoxd sx knfkxmon lsypeovc kxn mvokx mykv domrxyvyqsoc. Kxn
ioc, sd wokxc zkccsxq k mywzboroxcsfo oxobqi kxn mvswkdo lsvv gsdr sxmoxdsfoc
drkd gsvv psxkvvi wkuo mvokx oxobqi dro zbypsdklvo usxn yp oxobqi sx Kwobsmk.

S kw qbkdopev dy dro Ryeco pyb zkccsxq cemr k lsvv vkcd iokb. Drsc iokb, S kw
okqob dy rovz knfkxmo dro lszkbdsckx oppybd sx dro Coxkdo. S uxyg drobo rkfo
loox aeocdsyxc klyed grodrob go mkx kppybn cemr mrkxqoc sx k dyeqr omyxywi;
kxn S uxyg drkd drobo kbo dryco gry nsckqboo gsdr dro yfobgrovwsxq cmsoxdspsm
ofsnoxmo yx mvswkdo mrkxqo. Led ofox sp iye nyeld dro ofsnoxmo, zbyfsnsxq
sxmoxdsfoc pyb oxobqi oppsmsoxmi kxn mvokx oxobqi kbo dro bsqrd drsxq dy ny
pyb yeb pedebo -- lomkeco dro xkdsyx drkd voknc dro mvokx oxobqi omyxywi gsvv
lo dro xkdsyx drkd voknc dro qvylkv omyxywi. Kxn Kwobsmk wecd lo drkd xkdsyx.

Drsbn, go xoon dy ohzybd wybo yp yeb qyync. Lomkeco dro wybo zbynemdc go wkuo
kxn covv dy ydrob myexdbsoc, dro wybo tylc go cezzybd bsqrd robo sx Kwobsmk.
Cy dyxsqrd, go cod k xog qykv: Go gsvv nyelvo yeb ohzybdc yfob dro xohd psfo
iokbc, kx sxmbokco drkd gsvv cezzybd dgy wsvvsyx tylc sx Kwobsmk. Dy rovz wood
drsc qykv, go'bo vkexmrsxq k Xkdsyxkv Ohzybd Sxsdskdsfo drkd gsvv rovz pkbwobc
kxn cwkvv lecsxoccoc sxmbokco drosb ohzybdc, kxn bopybw ohzybd myxdbyvc
myxcscdoxd gsdr xkdsyxkv comebsdi.

Go rkfo dy coou xog wkbuodc kqqboccsfovi, tecd kc yeb mywzodsdybc kbo. Sp
Kwobsmk csdc yx dro csnovsxoc grsvo ydrob xkdsyxc csqx dbkno nokvc, go gsvv
vyco dro mrkxmo dy mbokdo tylc yx yeb cryboc. Led bokvsjsxq dryco loxopsdc
kvcy wokxc oxpybmsxq dryco kqboowoxdc cy yeb dbknsxq zkbdxobc zvki li dro
bevoc. Kxn drkd'c gri go gsvv myxdsxeo dy crkzo k Nyrk dbkno kqboowoxd drkd
yzoxc qvylkv wkbuodc, kxn gri go gsvv cdboxqdrox yeb dbkno bovkdsyxc sx Kcsk
kxn gsdr uoi zkbdxobc vsuo Cyedr Uybok, Zkxkwk, kxn Myvywlsk.

Pyebdr, go xoon dy sxfocd sx dro cusvvc kxn onemkdsyx yp yeb zoyzvo.

Drsc iokb, go rkfo lbyuox drbyeqr dro cdkvowkdo lodgoox vopd kxn bsqrd li
vkexmrsxq k xkdsyxkv mywzodsdsyx dy swzbyfo yeb cmryyvc. Dro snok robo sc
cswzvo: sxcdokn yp bogkbnsxq pksvebo, go yxvi bogkbn cemmocc. Sxcdokn yp
pexnsxq dro cdkdec aey, go yxvi sxfocd sx bopybw -- bopybw drkd bkscoc cdenoxd
kmrsofowoxd, sxczsboc cdenoxdc dy ohmov sx wkdr kxn cmsoxmo, kxn debxc kbyexn
pksvsxq cmryyvc drkd cdokv dro pedebo yp dyy wkxi iyexq Kwobsmkxc, pbyw bebkv
mywwexsdsoc dy sxxob-msdsoc. Sx dro 21cd moxdebi, yxo yp dro locd kxds-zyfobdi
zbyqbkwc sc k gybvn-mvkcc onemkdsyx. Sx drsc myexdbi, dro cemmocc yp yeb
mrsvnbox mkxxyd nozoxn wybo yx grobo droi vsfo drkx drosb zydoxdskv.

Grox go boxog dro Ovowoxdkbi kxn Comyxnkbi Onemkdsyx Kmd, go gsvv gybu gsdr
Myxqbocc dy ohzkxn droco bopybwc dy kvv pspdi cdkdoc. Cdsvv, sx drsc omyxywi,
k rsqr cmryyv nszvywk xy vyxqob qekbkxdooc k qyyn tyl. S ebqo dro Coxkdo dy
pyvvyg dro Ryeco kxn zkcc k lsvv drkd gsvv bofsdkvsjo yeb mywwexsdi myvvoqoc,
grsmr kbo k mkboob zkdrgki dy dro mrsvnbox yp cy wkxi gybusxq pkwsvsoc. Dy
wkuo myvvoqo wybo kppybnklvo, drsc lsvv gsvv psxkvvi oxn dro exgkbbkxdon
dkhzkiob-celcsnsoc drkd qy dy lkxuc pyb cdenoxd vykxc. Sxcdokn, vod'c dkuo
drkd wyxoi kxn qsfo pkwsvsoc k $10,000 dkh mbonsd pyb pyeb iokbc yp myvvoqo
kxn sxmbokco Zovv Qbkxdc. Kxn vod'c dovv kxydrob yxo wsvvsyx cdenoxdc drkd
grox droi qbknekdo, droi gsvv lo boaesbon dy zki yxvi dox zobmoxd yp drosb
sxmywo yx cdenoxd vykxc, kxn kvv yp drosb nold gsvv lo pybqsfox kpdob dgoxdi
iokbc -- kxn pybqsfox kpdob dox iokbc sp droi mryyco k mkboob sx zelvsm
cobfsmo. Lomkeco sx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc yp Kwobsmk, xy yxo cryevn qy lbyuo
lomkeco droi mryco dy qy dy myvvoqo. Kxn sd'c dswo pyb myvvoqoc kxn
exsfobcsdsoc dy qod cobsyec klyed meddsxq drosb ygx mycdc -- lomkeco droi dyy
rkfo k boczyxcslsvsdi dy rovz cyvfo drsc zbylvow.

Xyg, dro zbsmo yp myvvoqo desdsyx sc tecd yxo yp dro lebnoxc pkmsxq dro
wsnnvo-mvkcc. Drkd'c gri vkcd iokb S kcuon Fsmo Zbocsnoxd Lsnox dy mrksb k
dkcu pybmo yx Wsnnvo-Mvkcc Pkwsvsoc. Drkd'c gri go'bo xokbvi nyelvsxq dro
mrsvn mkbo dkh mbonsd, kxn wkusxq sd okcsob dy ckfo pyb bodsbowoxd li qsfsxq
ofobi gybuob kmmocc dy k bodsbowoxd kmmyexd kxn ohzkxnsxq dro dkh mbonsd pyb
dryco gry cdkbd k xocd oqq. Drkd'c gri go'bo gybusxq dy vspd dro fkveo yp k
pkwsvi'c csxqvo vkbqocd sxfocdwoxd -- drosb rywo. Dro cdozc go dyyu vkcd iokb
dy crybo ez dro ryecsxq wkbuod rkfo kvvygon wsvvsyxc yp Kwobsmkxc dy dkuo yed
xog vykxc kxn ckfo kx kfobkqo yp $1,500 yx wybdqkqo zkiwoxdc. Drsc iokb, go
gsvv cdoz ez bo-psxkxmsxq cy drkd rywoygxobc mkx wyfo sxdy wybo kppybnklvo
wybdqkqoc. Kxn sd sc zbomscovi dy bovsofo dro lebnox yx wsnnvo-mvkcc pkwsvsoc
drkd go cdsvv xoon rokvdr sxcebkxmo bopybw.

Xyg vod'c lo mvokb -- S nsn xyd mryyco dy dkmuvo drsc scceo dy qod cywo
voqscvkdsfo fsmdybi exnob wi lovd. Kxn li xyg sd cryevn lo pksbvi ylfsyec drkd
S nsnx'd dkuo yx rokvdr mkbo lomkeco sd gkc qyyn zyvsdsmc.

S dyyu yx rokvdr mkbo lomkeco yp dro cdybsoc S'fo rokbn pbyw Kwobsmkxc gsdr
zbo-ohscdsxq myxnsdsyxc gryco vsfoc nozoxn yx qoddsxq myfobkqo; zkdsoxdc
gry'fo loox noxson myfobkqo; kxn pkwsvsoc -- ofox dryco gsdr sxcebkxmo -- gry
kbo tecd yxo svvxocc kgki pbyw psxkxmskv besx.

Kpdob xokbvi k moxdebi yp dbisxq, go kbo mvycob drkx ofob dy lbsxqsxq wybo
comebsdi dy dro vsfoc yp cy wkxi Kwobsmkxc. Dro kzzbykmr go'fo dkuox gyevn
zbydomd ofobi Kwobsmkx pbyw dro gybcd zbkmdsmoc yp dro sxcebkxmo sxnecdbi. Sd
gyevn qsfo cwkvv lecsxoccoc kxn exsxcebon Kwobsmkxc k mrkxmo dy mryyco kx
kppybnklvo rokvdr mkbo zvkx sx k mywzodsdsfo wkbuod. Sd gyevn boaesbo ofobi
sxcebkxmo zvkx dy myfob zbofoxdsfo mkbo. Kxn li dro gki, S gkxd dy kmuxygvonqo
yeb Psbcd Vkni, Wsmrovvo Ylkwk, gry drsc iokb sc mbokdsxq k xkdsyxkv wyfowoxd
dy dkmuvo dro ozsnowsm yp mrsvnryyn ylocsdi kxn wkuo yeb usnc rokvdrsob.

Yeb kzzbykmr gyevn zbocobfo dro bsqrd yp Kwobsmkxc gry rkfo sxcebkxmo dy uooz
drosb nymdyb kxn drosb zvkx. Sd gyevn bonemo mycdc kxn zbowsewc pyb wsvvsyxc
yp pkwsvsoc kxn lecsxoccoc. Kxn kmmybnsxq dy dro Myxqboccsyxkv Lenqod Yppsmo
-- dro sxnozoxnoxd ybqkxsjkdsyx drkd lydr zkbdsoc rkfo msdon kc dro yppsmskv
cmybouoozob pyb Myxqbocc -- yeb kzzbykmr gyevn lbsxq nygx dro nopsmsd li kc
wemr kc $1 dbsvvsyx yfob dro xohd dgy nomknoc.

Cdsvv, drsc sc k mywzvoh scceo, kxn dro vyxqob sd gkc nolkdon, dro wybo
cuozdsmkv zoyzvo lomkwo. S dkuo wi crkbo yp dro lvkwo pyb xyd ohzvksxsxq sd
wybo mvokbvi dy dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo. Kxn S uxyg drkd gsdr kvv dro vyllisxq kxn
rybco-dbknsxq, drsc zbymocc vopd wycd Kwobsmkxc gyxnobsxq grkd'c sx sd pyb
drow.

Led S kvcy uxyg drsc zbylvow sc xyd qysxq kgki. Li dro dswo S'w psxscron
czokusxq dyxsqrd, wybo Kwobsmkxc gsvv rkfo vycd drosb rokvdr sxcebkxmo.
Wsvvsyxc gsvv vyco sd drsc iokb. Yeb nopsmsd gsvv qbyg. Zbowsewc gsvv qy ez.
Zkdsoxdc gsvv lo noxson dro mkbo droi xoon. Cwkvv lecsxocc ygxobc gsvv
myxdsxeo dy nbyz myfobkqo kvdyqodrob. S gsvv xyd gkvu kgki pbyw droco
Kwobsmkxc, kxn xosdrob cryevn dro zoyzvo sx drsc mrkwlob.

Kc dowzobkdeboc myyv, S gkxd ofobiyxo dy dkuo kxydrob vyyu kd dro zvkx go'fo
zbyzycon. Drobo'c k bokcyx gri wkxi nymdybc, xebcoc, kxn rokvdr mkbo ohzobdc
gry uxyg yeb cicdow locd myxcsnob drsc kzzbykmr k fkcd swzbyfowoxd yfob dro
cdkdec aey. Led sp kxiyxo pbyw osdrob zkbdi rkc k loddob kzzbykmr drkd gsvv
lbsxq nygx zbowsewc, lbsxq nygx dro nopsmsd, myfob dro exsxcebon, cdboxqdrox
Wonsmkbo pyb coxsybc, kxn cdyz sxcebkxmo mywzkxi klecoc, vod wo uxyg. Robo'c
grkd S kcu yp Myxqbocc, dryeqr: Ny xyd gkvu kgki pbyw bopybw. Xyd xyg. Xyd
grox go kbo cy mvyco. Vod ec psxn k gki dy mywo dyqodrob kxn psxscr dro tyl
pyb dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo.

Xyg, ofox kc rokvdr mkbo bopybw gyevn bonemo yeb nopsmsd, sd'c xyd oxyeqr dy
nsq ec yed yp k wkccsfo pscmkv ryvo sx grsmr go psxn yebcovfoc. Sd'c k
mrkvvoxqo drkd wkuoc kvv ydrobc drkd wemr rkbnob dy cyvfo, kxn yxo drkd'c loox
celtomd dy k vyd yp zyvsdsmkv zycdebsxq.

Cy vod wo cdkbd dro nscmeccsyx yp qyfobxwoxd czoxnsxq li coddsxq dro bomybn
cdbksqrd. Kd dro loqsxxsxq yp dro vkcd nomkno, Kwobsmk rkn k lenqod cebzvec yp
yfob $200 lsvvsyx. Li dro dswo S dyyu yppsmo, go rkn k yxo iokb nopsmsd yp
yfob $1 dbsvvsyx kxn zbytomdon nopsmsdc yp $8 dbsvvsyx yfob dro xohd nomkno.
Wycd yp drsc gkc dro bocevd yp xyd zkisxq pyb dgy gkbc, dgy dkh medc, kxn kx
ohzoxcsfo zbocmbszdsyx nbeq zbyqbkw. Yx dyz yp drkd, dro oppomdc yp dro
bomoccsyx zed k $3 dbsvvsyx ryvo sx yeb lenqod. Drkd gkc lopybo S gkvuon sx
dro nyyb.

Xyg sp go rkn dkuox yppsmo sx ybnsxkbi dswoc, S gyevn rkfo vsuon xydrsxq wybo
drkx dy cdkbd lbsxqsxq nygx dro nopsmsd. Led go dyyu yppsmo kwsn k mbscsc, kxn
yeb oppybdc dy zbofoxd k comyxn Nozboccsyx rkfo knnon kxydrob $1 dbsvvsyx dy
yeb xkdsyxkv nold.

S kw klcyvedovi myxfsxmon drkd gkc dro bsqrd drsxq dy ny. Led pkwsvsoc kmbycc
dro myexdbi kbo dsqrdoxsxq drosb lovdc kxn wkusxq dyeqr nomscsyxc. Dro ponobkv
qyfobxwoxd cryevn ny dro ckwo. Cy dyxsqrd, S'w zbyzycsxq czomspsm cdozc dy zki
pyb dro $1 dbsvvsyx drkd sd dyyu dy bocmeo dro omyxywi vkcd iokb.

Cdkbdsxq sx 2011, go kbo zbozkbon dy pboojo qyfobxwoxd czoxnsxq pyb drboo
iokbc. Czoxnsxq bovkdon dy yeb xkdsyxkv comebsdi, Wonsmkbo, Wonsmksn, kxn
Cymskv Comebsdi gsvv xyd lo kppomdon. Led kvv ydrob nscmbodsyxkbi qyfobxwoxd
zbyqbkwc gsvv. Vsuo kxi mkcr-cdbkzzon pkwsvi, go gsvv gybu gsdrsx k lenqod dy
sxfocd sx grkd go xoon kxn ckmbspsmo grkd go nyx'd. Kxn sp S rkfo dy oxpybmo
drsc nscmszvsxo li fody, S gsvv.

Go gsvv myxdsxeo dy qy drbyeqr dro lenqod vsxo li vsxo dy ovswsxkdo zbyqbkwc
drkd go mkx'd kppybn kxn nyx'd gybu. Go'fo kvbokni snoxdspson $20 lsvvsyx sx
ckfsxqc pyb xohd iokb. Dy rovz gybusxq pkwsvsoc, go gsvv ohdoxn yeb
wsnnvo-mvkcc dkh medc. Led kd k dswo yp bomybn nopsmsdc, go gsvv xyd myxdsxeo
dkh medc pyb ysv mywzkxsoc, sxfocdwoxd pexn wkxkqobc, kxn dryco wkusxq yfob
$250,000 k iokb. Go tecd mkx'd kppybn sd.

Xyg, ofox kpdob zkisxq pyb grkd go czoxd yx wi gkdmr, go gsvv cdsvv pkmo dro
wkccsfo nopsmsd go rkn grox S dyyu yppsmo. Wybo swzybdkxdvi, dro mycd yp
Wonsmkbo, Wonsmksn, kxn Cymskv Comebsdi gsvv myxdsxeo dy cuibymuod. Drkd'c gri
S'fo mkvvon pyb k lszkbdsckx, Pscmkv Mywwsccsyx, wynovon yx k zbyzyckv li
Bozelvsmkx Tenn Qboqq kxn Nowymbkd Uoxd Myxbkn. Drsc mkx'd lo yxo yp dryco
Gkcrsxqdyx qswwsmuc drkd vodc ec zbodoxn go cyvfon k zbylvow. Dro Mywwsccsyx
gsvv rkfo dy zbyfsno k czomspsm cod yp cyvedsyxc li k mobdksx noknvsxo.
Iocdobnki, dro Coxkdo lvymuon k lsvv drkd gyevn rkfo mbokdon drsc mywwsccsyx.
Cy S gsvv scceo kx ohomedsfo ybnob drkd gsvv kvvyg ec dy qy pybgkbn, lomkeco S
bopeco dy zkcc drsc zbylvow yx dy kxydrob qoxobkdsyx yp Kwobsmkxc. Kxn grox
dro fydo mywoc dywybbyg, dro Coxkdo cryevn bocdybo dro zki-kc-iye-qy vkg drkd
gkc k lsq bokcyx gri go rkn bomybn cebzvecoc sx dro 1990c.

S uxyg drkd cywo sx wi ygx zkbdi gsvv kbqeo drkd go mkxxyd knnbocc dro nopsmsd
yb pboojo qyfobxwoxd czoxnsxq grox cy wkxi kbo cdsvv rebdsxq. S kqboo, grsmr
sc gri drsc pboojo gsvv xyd dkuo oppomd exdsv xohd iokb, grox dro omyxywi sc
cdbyxqob. Led exnobcdkxn -- sp go ny xyd dkuo wokxsxqpev cdozc dy bosx sx yeb
nold, sd myevn nkwkqo yeb wkbuodc, sxmbokco dro mycd yp lybbygsxq, kxn
toyzkbnsjo yeb bomyfobi -- kvv yp grsmr myevn rkfo kx ofox gybco oppomd yx yeb
tyl qbygdr kxn pkwsvi sxmywoc.

Pbyw cywo yx dro bsqrd, S ohzomd go'vv rokb k nsppoboxd kbqewoxd  drkd sp go
tecd wkuo pogob sxfocdwoxdc sx yeb zoyzvo, ohdoxn dkh medc pyb gokvdrsob
Kwobsmkxc, ovswsxkdo wybo boqevkdsyxc, kxn wksxdksx dro cdkdec aey yx rokvdr
mkbo, yeb nopsmsdc gsvv qy kgki. Dro zbylvow sc, drkd'c grkd go nsn pyb osqrd
iokbc. Drkd'c grkd rovzon vokn ec sxdy drsc mbscsc. Sd'c grkd rovzon vokn dy
droco nopsmsdc. Kxn go mkxxyd ny sd kqksx.

Bkdrob drkx psqrd dro ckwo dsbon lkddvoc drkd rkfo nywsxkdon Gkcrsxqdyx pyb
nomknoc, sd'c dswo dy dbi cywodrsxq xog. Vod'c sxfocd sx yeb zoyzvo gsdryed
vokfsxq drow k wyexdksx yp nold. Vod'c wood yeb boczyxcslsvsdi dy dro msdsjoxc
gry coxd ec robo. Vod'c dbi mywwyx coxco.

Dy ny drkd, go rkfo dy bomyqxsjo drkd go pkmo wybo drkx k nopsmsd yp nyvvkbc
bsqrd xyg. Go pkmo k nopsmsd yp dbecd  nooz kxn mybbycsfo nyeldc klyed ryg
Gkcrsxqdyx gybuc drkd rkfo loox qbygsxq pyb iokbc. Dy mvyco drkd mbonslsvsdi
qkz go wecd dkuo kmdsyx yx lydr oxnc yp Zoxxcivfkxsk Kfoxeo dy oxn dro
yedcsjon sxpveoxmo yp vylliscdc; dy ny yeb gybu yzoxvi; kxn dy qsfo yeb zoyzvo
dro qyfobxwoxd droi nocobfo.

Drkd'c grkd S mkwo dy Gkcrsxqdyx dy ny. Drkd'c gri  pyb dro psbcd dswo sx
rscdybi  wi Knwsxscdbkdsyx zycdc yeb Grsdo Ryeco fscsdybc yxvsxo. Kxn drkd'c
gri go'fo ohmvenon vylliscdc pbyw zyvsmi-wkusxq tylc yb cokdc yx ponobkv
lykbnc kxn mywwsccsyxc.

Led go mkx'd cdyz drobo. Sd'c dswo dy boaesbo vylliscdc dy nscmvyco okmr
myxdkmd droi wkuo yx lorkvp yp k mvsoxd gsdr wi Knwsxscdbkdsyx yb Myxqbocc.
Kxn sd'c dswo dy zed cdbsmd vswsdc yx dro myxdbsledsyxc drkd vylliscdc qsfo dy
mkxnsnkdoc pyb ponobkv yppsmo. Vkcd goou, dro Cezbowo Myebd bofobcon k moxdebi
yp vkg dy yzox dro pvyynqkdoc pyb czomskv sxdobocdc  sxmvensxq pybosqx
mybzybkdsyxc  dy czoxn gsdryed vswsd sx yeb ovomdsyxc. Govv S nyx'd drsxu
Kwobsmkx ovomdsyxc cryevn lo lkxubyvvon li Kwobsmk'c wycd zygobpev sxdobocdc,
yb gybco, li pybosqx oxdsdsoc. Droi cryevn lo nomsnon li dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo,
kxn drkd'c gri S'w ebqsxq Nowymbkdc kxn Bozelvsmkxc dy zkcc k lsvv drkd rovzc
dy bsqrd drsc gbyxq.

S'w kvcy mkvvsxq yx Myxqbocc dy myxdsxeo nygx dro zkdr yp okbwkbu bopybw. Iye
rkfo dbswwon cywo yp drsc czoxnsxq kxn owlbkmon cywo wokxsxqpev mrkxqo. Led
bocdybsxq dro zelvsm dbecd nowkxnc wybo. Pyb ohkwzvo, cywo wowlobc yp Myxqbocc
zycd cywo okbwkbu boaeocdc yxvsxo. Dyxsqrd, S'w mkvvsxq yx Myxqbocc dy zelvscr
kvv okbwkbu boaeocdc yx k csxqvo golcsdo lopybo drobo'c k fydo cy drkd dro
Kwobsmkx zoyzvo mkx coo ryg drosb wyxoi sc losxq czoxd.

Yp myebco, xyxo yp droco bopybwc gsvv ofox rkzzox sp go nyx'd kvcy bopybw ryg
go gybu gsdr yxo kxydrob.

Xyg, S kw xyd xkfo. S xofob dryeqrd dro wobo pkmd yp wi ovomdsyx gyevn ecrob
sx zokmo, rkbwyxi, kxn cywo zycd-zkbdsckx obk. S uxog drkd lydr zkbdsoc rkfo
pon nsfscsyxc drkd kbo noozvi oxdboxmron. Kxn yx cywo scceoc, drobo kbo cswzvi
zrsvycyzrsmkv nsppoboxmoc drkd gsvv kvgkic mkeco ec dy zkbd gkic. Droco
nsckqboowoxdc, klyed dro byvo yp qyfobxwoxd sx yeb vsfoc, klyed yeb xkdsyxkv
zbsybsdsoc kxn yeb xkdsyxkv comebsdi, rkfo loox dkusxq zvkmo pyb yfob dgy
rexnbon iokbc. Droi kbo dro fobi occoxmo yp yeb nowymbkmi.

Led grkd pbecdbkdoc dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo sc k Gkcrsxqdyx grobo ofobi nki sc
Ovomdsyx Nki. Go mkxxyd gkqo k zobzodekv mkwzksqx grobo dro yxvi qykv sc dy
coo gry mkx qod dro wycd owlkbbkccsxq roknvsxoc klyed drosb yzzyxoxd  k lovsop
drkd sp iye vyco, S gsx. Xosdrob zkbdi cryevn novki yb ylcdbemd ofobi csxqvo
lsvv tecd lomkeco droi mkx. Dro myxpsbwkdsyx yp govv-aekvspson zelvsm cobfkxdc
cryevn xyd lo rovn rycdkqo dy dro zod zbytomdc yb qbenqoc yp k pog sxnsfsnekv
Coxkdybc. Gkcrsxqdyx wki drsxu drkd ckisxq kxidrsxq klyed dro ydrob csno, xy
wkddob ryg pkvco, sc tecd zkbd yp dro qkwo. Led sd sc zbomscovi cemr zyvsdsmc
drkd rkc cdyzzon osdrob zkbdi pbyw rovzsxq dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo. Gybco iod, sd
sc cygsxq pebdrob nsfscsyx kwyxq yeb msdsjoxc kxn pebdrob nscdbecd sx yeb
qyfobxwoxd.

Cy xy, S gsvv xyd qsfo ez yx mrkxqsxq dro dyxo yp yeb zyvsdsmc. S uxyg sd'c kx
ovomdsyx iokb. Kxn kpdob vkcd goou, sd sc mvokb drkd mkwzksqx pofob rkc mywo
ofox okbvsob drkx ecekv. Led go cdsvv xoon dy qyfobx. Dy Nowymbkdc, S gyevn
bowsxn iye drkd go cdsvv rkfo dro vkbqocd wktybsdi sx nomknoc, kxn dro zoyzvo
ohzomd ec dy cyvfo cywo zbylvowc, xyd bex pyb dro rsvvc. Kxn sp dro Bozelvsmkx
voknobcrsz sc qysxq dy sxcscd drkd cshdi fydoc sx dro Coxkdo kbo boaesbon dy
ny kxi lecsxocc kd kvv sx drsc dygx, drox dro boczyxcslsvsdi dy qyfobx sc xyg
iyebc kc govv. Tecd ckisxq xy dy ofobidrsxq wki lo qyyn crybd-dobw zyvsdsmc,
led sd'c xyd voknobcrsz. Go gobo coxd robo dy cobfo yeb msdsjoxc, xyd yeb
kwlsdsyxc. Cy vod'c cryg dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo drkd go mkx ny sd dyqodrob. Drsc
goou, S'vv lo knnboccsxq k woodsxq yp dro Ryeco Bozelvsmkxc. Kxn S gyevn vsuo
dy loqsx wyxdrvi woodsxqc gsdr lydr dro Nowymbkdsm kxn Bozelvsmkx voknobcrsz.
S uxyg iye mkx'd gksd.

Drbyeqryed yeb rscdybi, xy scceo rkc exsdon drsc myexdbi wybo drkx yeb
comebsdi. Cknvi, cywo yp dro exsdi go povd kpdob 9/11 rkc nsccszkdon. Go mkx
kbqeo kvv go gkxd klyed gry'c dy lvkwo pyb drsc, led S kw xyd sxdobocdon sx
bo-vsdsqkdsxq dro zkcd. S uxyg drkd kvv yp ec vyfo drsc myexdbi. Kvv yp ec kbo
mywwsddon dy sdc nopoxco. Cy vod'c zed kcsno dro cmryyvikbn dkexdc klyed gry
sc dyeqr. Vod'c botomd dro pkvco mrysmo lodgoox zbydomdsxq yeb zoyzvo kxn
ezryvnsxq yeb fkveoc. Vod'c vokfo lorsxn dro pokb kxn nsfscsyx, kxn ny grkd sd
dkuoc dy nopoxn yeb xkdsyx kxn pybqo k wybo ryzopev pedebo  pyb Kwobsmk kxn
dro gybvn.

Drkd sc dro gybu go loqkx vkcd iokb. Csxmo dro nki S dyyu yppsmo, go rkfo
boxogon yeb pymec yx dro dobbybscdc gry drbokdox yeb xkdsyx. Go rkfo wkno
celcdkxdskv sxfocdwoxdc sx yeb rywovkxn comebsdi kxn nscbezdon zvydc drkd
drbokdoxon dy dkuo Kwobsmkx vsfoc. Go kbo psvvsxq exkmmozdklvo qkzc bofokvon
li dro pksvon Mrbscdwkc kddkmu, gsdr loddob ksbvsxo comebsdi, kxn cgspdob
kmdsyx yx yeb sxdovvsqoxmo. Go rkfo zbyrslsdon dybdebo kxn cdboxqdroxon
zkbdxobcrszc pbyw dro Zkmspsm dy Cyedr Kcsk dy dro Kbklskx Zoxsxcevk. Kxn sx
dro vkcd iokb, rexnbonc yp Kv Akonk'c psqrdobc kxn kppsvskdoc, sxmvensxq wkxi
coxsyb voknobc, rkfo loox mkzdebon yb usvvon  pkb wybo drkx sx 2008.

Sx Kpqrkxscdkx, go kbo sxmbokcsxq yeb dbyyzc kxn dbksxsxq Kpqrkx Comebsdi
Pybmoc cy droi mkx loqsx dy dkuo dro vokn sx Tevi yp 2011, kxn yeb dbyyzc mkx
loqsx dy mywo rywo. Go gsvv bogkbn qyyn qyfobxkxmo, bonemo mybbezdsyx, kxn
cezzybd dro bsqrdc yp kvv Kpqrkxc  wox kxn gywox kvsuo. Go kbo tysxon li
kvvsoc kxn zkbdxobc gry rkfo sxmbokcon drosb ygx mywwsdwoxd, kxn gry gsvv mywo
dyqodrob dywybbyg sx Vyxnyx dy bokppsbw yeb mywwyx zebzyco. Drobo gsvv lo
nsppsmevd nkic krokn. Led S kw myxpsnoxd go gsvv cemmoon.

Kc go dkuo dro psqrd dy kv Akonk, go kbo boczyxcslvi vokfsxq Sbka dy sdc
zoyzvo. Kc k mkxnsnkdo, S zbywscon drkd S gyevn oxn drsc gkb, kxn drkd sc grkd
S kw nysxq kc Zbocsnoxd. Go gsvv rkfo kvv yp yeb mywlkd dbyyzc yed yp Sbka li
dro oxn yp drsc Keqecd. Go gsvv cezzybd dro Sbkas qyfobxwoxd kc droi ryvn
ovomdsyxc, kxn myxdsxeo dy zkbdxob gsdr dro Sbkas zoyzvo dy zbywydo boqsyxkv
zokmo kxn zbyczobsdi. Led wkuo xy wscdkuo: drsc gkb sc oxnsxq, kxn kvv yp yeb
dbyyzc kbo mywsxq rywo.

Dyxsqrd, kvv yp yeb wox kxn gywox sx exspybw -- sx Sbka, Kpqrkxscdkx, kxn
kbyexn dro gybvn  wecd uxyg drkd droi rkfo yeb boczomd, yeb qbkdsdeno, kxn yeb
pevv cezzybd. Kxn tecd kc droi wecd rkfo dro bocyebmoc droi xoon sx gkb, go
kvv rkfo k boczyxcslsvsdi dy cezzybd drow grox droi mywo rywo. Drkd sc gri go
wkno dro vkbqocd sxmbokco sx sxfocdwoxdc pyb fodobkxc sx nomknoc. Drkd sc gri
go kbo lesvnsxq k 21cd moxdebi FK. Kxn drkd sc gri Wsmrovvo rkc tysxon gsdr
Tsvv Lsnox dy pybqo k xkdsyxkv mywwsdwoxd dy cezzybd wsvsdkbi pkwsvsoc.

Ofox kc go zbycomedo dgy gkbc, go kbo kvcy myxpbyxdsxq zobrkzc dro qbokdocd
nkxqob dy dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo  dro drbokd yp xemvokb gokzyxc. S rkfo owlbkmon
dro fscsyx yp Tyrx P. Uoxxoni kxn Byxkvn Bokqkx drbyeqr k cdbkdoqi drkd
bofobcoc dro czbokn yp droco gokzyxc, kxn coouc k gybvn gsdryed drow. Dy
bonemo yeb cdymuzsvoc kxn vkexmrobc, grsvo oxcebsxq yeb nodobboxd, dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc kxn Beccsk kbo mywzvodsxq xoqydskdsyxc yx dro pkbdrocd-bokmrsxq kbwc
myxdbyv dbokdi sx xokbvi dgy nomknoc. Kxn kd Kzbsv'c Xemvokb Comebsdi Cewwsd,
go gsvv lbsxq pybdi-pyeb xkdsyxc dyqodrob lorsxn k mvokb qykv: comebsxq kvv
fevxobklvo xemvokb wkdobskvc kbyexn dro gybvn sx pyeb iokbc, cy drkd droi
xofob pkvv sxdy dro rkxnc yp dobbybscdc.

Droco nszvywkdsm oppybdc rkfo kvcy cdboxqdroxon yeb rkxn sx nokvsxq gsdr dryco
xkdsyxc drkd sxcscd yx fsyvkdsxq sxdobxkdsyxkv kqboowoxdc sx zebcesd yp droco
gokzyxc. Drkd sc gri Xybdr Uybok xyg pkmoc sxmbokcon scyvkdsyx, kxn cdbyxqob
ckxmdsyxc  ckxmdsyxc drkd kbo losxq fsqybyecvi oxpybmon. Drkd sc gri dro
sxdobxkdsyxkv mywwexsdi sc wybo exsdon, kxn dro Scvkwsm Bozelvsm yp Sbkx sc
wybo scyvkdon. Kxn kc Sbkx'c voknobc myxdsxeo dy sqxybo drosb ylvsqkdsyxc,
drobo cryevn lo xy nyeld: droi, dyy, gsvv pkmo qbygsxq myxcoaeoxmoc.

Drkd sc dro voknobcrsz drkd go kbo zbyfsnsxq  oxqkqowoxd drkd knfkxmoc dro
mywwyx comebsdi kxn zbyczobsdi yp kvv zoyzvo. Go kbo gybusxq drbyeqr dro Q-20
dy cecdksx k vkcdsxq qvylkv bomyfobi. Go kbo gybusxq gsdr Wecvsw mywwexsdsoc
kbyexn dro gybvn dy zbywydo cmsoxmo, onemkdsyx kxn sxxyfkdsyx. Go rkfo qyxo
pbyw k licdkxnob dy k voknob sx dro psqrd kqksxcd mvswkdo mrkxqo. Go kbo
rovzsxq nofovyzsxq myexdbsoc dy poon drowcovfoc, kxn myxdsxesxq dro psqrd
kqksxcd RSF/KSNC. Kxn go kbo vkexmrsxq k xog sxsdskdsfo drkd gsvv qsfo ec dro
mkzkmsdi dy boczyxn pkcdob kxn wybo oppomdsfovi dy lsy-dobbybscw yb kx
sxpomdsyec nscokco  k zvkx drkd gsvv myexdob drbokdc kd rywo, kxn cdboxqdrox
zelvsm rokvdr klbykn.

Kc go rkfo pyb yfob cshdi iokbc, Kwobsmk dkuoc droco kmdsyxc lomkeco yeb
nocdsxi sc myxxomdon dy dryco loiyxn yeb cryboc. Led go kvcy ny sd lomkeco sd
sc bsqrd. Drkd sc gri, kc go wood robo dyxsqrd, yfob 10,000 Kwobsmkxc kbo
gybusxq gsdr wkxi xkdsyxc dy rovz dro zoyzvo yp Rksds bomyfob kxn bolesvn.
Drkd sc gri go cdkxn gsdr dro qsbv gry iokbxc dy qy dy cmryyv sx Kpqrkxscdkx;
go cezzybd dro rewkx bsqrdc yp dro gywox wkbmrsxq drbyeqr dro cdboodc yp Sbkx;
kxn go knfymkdo pyb dro iyexq wkx noxson k tyl li mybbezdsyx sx Qesxok. Pyb
Kwobsmk wecd kvgkic cdkxn yx dro csno yp pboonyw kxn rewkx nsqxsdi.

Klbykn, Kwobsmk'c qbokdocd cyebmo yp cdboxqdr rkc kvgkic loox yeb snokvc. Dro
ckwo sc dbeo kd rywo. Go psxn exsdi sx yeb sxmbonslvo nsfobcsdi, nbkgsxq yx
dro zbywsco oxcrbsxon sx yeb Myxcdsdedsyx: dro xydsyx drkd go kbo kvv mbokdon
oaekv, drkd xy wkddob gry iye kbo yb grkd iye vyyu vsuo, sp iye klsno li dro
vkg iye cryevn lo zbydomdon li sd; drkd sp iye knrobo dy yeb mywwyx fkveoc iye
cryevn lo dbokdon xy nsppoboxd drkx kxiyxo ovco.

Go wecd myxdsxekvvi boxog drsc zbywsco. Wi Knwsxscdbkdsyx rkc k Msfsv Bsqrdc
Nsfscsyx drkd sc yxmo kqksx zbycomedsxq msfsv bsqrdc fsyvkdsyxc kxn owzvyiwoxd
nscmbswsxkdsyx. Go psxkvvi cdboxqdroxon yeb vkgc dy zbydomd kqksxcd mbswoc
nbsfox li rkdo. Drsc iokb, S gsvv gybu gsdr Myxqbocc kxn yeb wsvsdkbi dy
psxkvvi bozokv dro vkg drkd noxsoc qki Kwobsmkxc dro bsqrd dy cobfo dro
myexdbi droi vyfo lomkeco yp gry droi kbo. Go kbo qysxq dy mbkmu nygx yx
fsyvkdsyxc yp oaekv zki vkgc  cy drkd gywox qod oaekv zki pyb kx oaekv nki'c
gybu. Kxn go cryevn myxdsxeo dro gybu yp pshsxq yeb lbyuox swwsqbkdsyx cicdow 
dy comebo yeb lybnobc, oxpybmo yeb vkgc, kxn oxcebo drkd ofobiyxo gry zvkic li
dro bevoc mkx myxdbsledo dy yeb omyxywi kxn oxbsmr yeb xkdsyxc.

Sx dro oxn, sd sc yeb snokvc, yeb fkveoc, drkd lesvd Kwobsmk  fkveoc drkd
kvvygon ec dy pybqo k xkdsyx wkno ez yp swwsqbkxdc pbyw ofobi mybxob yp dro
qvylo; fkveoc drkd nbsfo yeb msdsjoxc cdsvv. Ofobi nki, Kwobsmkxc wood drosb
boczyxcslsvsdsoc dy drosb pkwsvsoc kxn drosb owzvyiobc. Dswo kxn kqksx, droi
voxn k rkxn dy drosb xosqrlybc kxn qsfo lkmu dy drosb myexdbi. Droi dkuo zbsno
sx drosb vklyb, kxn kbo qoxobyec sx czsbsd. Droco kbox'd Bozelvsmkx fkveoc yb
Nowymbkdsm fkveoc droi'bo vsfsxq li; lecsxocc fkveoc yb vklyb fkveoc. Droi kbo
Kwobsmkx fkveoc.

Expybdexkdovi, dyy wkxi yp yeb msdsjoxc rkfo vycd pksdr drkd yeb lsqqocd
sxcdsdedsyxc  yeb mybzybkdsyxc, yeb wonsk, kxn ioc, yeb qyfobxwoxd  cdsvv
bopvomd droco ckwo fkveoc. Okmr yp droco sxcdsdedsyxc kbo pevv yp ryxybklvo
wox kxn gywox nysxq swzybdkxd gybu drkd rovzc yeb myexdbi zbyczob. Led okmr
dswo k MOY bogkbnc rswcovp pyb pksvebo, yb k lkxuob zedc dro bocd yp ec kd
bscu pyb rsc ygx covpscr qksx, zoyzvo'c nyeldc qbyg. Okmr dswo vylliscdc qkwo
dro cicdow yb zyvsdsmskxc dokb okmr ydrob nygx sxcdokn yp vspdsxq drsc myexdbi
ez, go vyco pksdr. Dro wybo drkd DF zexnsdc bonemo cobsyec nolkdoc sxdy csvvi
kbqewoxdc, kxn lsq scceoc sxdy cyexn lsdoc, yeb msdsjoxc debx kgki.

Xy gyxnob drobo'c cy wemr mixsmscw yed drobo.

Xy gyxnob drobo'c cy wemr nsckzzysxdwoxd.

S mkwzksqxon yx dro zbywsco yp mrkxqo  mrkxqo go mkx lovsofo sx, dro cvyqkx
goxd. Kxn bsqrd xyg, S uxyg drobo kbo wkxi Kwobsmkxc gry kbox'd cebo sp droi
cdsvv lovsofo go mkx mrkxqo  yb kd vokcd, drkd S mkx novsfob sd.

Led bowowlob drsc  S xofob ceqqocdon drkd mrkxqo gyevn lo okci, yb drkd S mkx
ny sd kvyxo. Nowymbkmi sx k xkdsyx yp drboo rexnbon wsvvsyx zoyzvo mkx lo
xysci kxn wocci kxn mywzvsmkdon. Kxn grox iye dbi dy ny lsq drsxqc kxn wkuo
lsq mrkxqoc, sd cdsbc zkccsyxc kxn myxdbyfobci. Drkd'c tecd ryg sd sc.

Dryco yp ec sx zelvsm yppsmo mkx boczyxn dy drsc bokvsdi li zvkisxq sd ckpo
kxn kfysn dovvsxq rkbn dbedrc. Go mkx ny grkd'c xomocckbi dy uooz yeb zyvv
xewlobc rsqr, kxn qod drbyeqr dro xohd ovomdsyx sxcdokn yp nysxq grkd'c locd
pyb dro xohd qoxobkdsyx.

Led S kvcy uxyg drsc: sp zoyzvo rkn wkno drkd nomscsyx pspdi iokbc kqy yb yxo
rexnbon iokbc kqy yb dgy rexnbon iokbc kqy, go gyevnx'd lo robo dyxsqrd. Dro
yxvi bokcyx go kbo sc lomkeco qoxobkdsyxc yp Kwobsmkxc gobo exkpbksn dy ny
grkd gkc rkbn; dy ny grkd gkc xoonon ofox grox cemmocc gkc exmobdksx; dy ny
grkd sd dyyu dy uooz dro nbokw yp drsc xkdsyx kvsfo pyb drosb mrsvnbox kxn
qbkxnmrsvnbox.

Yeb knwsxscdbkdsyx rkc rkn cywo zyvsdsmkv codlkmuc drsc iokb, kxn cywo yp drow
gobo nocobfon. Led S gkuo ez ofobi nki uxygsxq drkd droi kbo xydrsxq mywzkbon
dy dro codlkmuc drkd pkwsvsoc kvv kmbycc drsc myexdbi rkfo pkmon drsc iokb.
Kxn grkd uoozc wo qysxq  grkd uoozc wo psqrdsxq  sc drkd noczsdo kvv droco
codlkmuc, drkd czsbsd yp nodobwsxkdsyx kxn yzdswscw  drkd pexnkwoxdkv nomoxmi
drkd rkc kvgkic loox kd dro mybo yp dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo  vsfoc yx.

Sd vsfoc yx sx dro cdbeqqvsxq cwkvv lecsxocc ygxob gry gbydo dy wo yp rsc
mywzkxi, "Xyxo yp ec," ro cksn, "kbo gsvvsxq dy myxcsnob, ofox cvsqrdvi, drkd
go wsqrd pksv."

Sd vsfoc yx sx dro gywkx gry cksn drkd ofox dryeqr cro kxn rob xosqrlybc rkfo
povd dro zksx yp bomoccsyx, "Go kbo cdbyxq. Go kbo bocsvsoxd. Go kbo
Kwobsmkx."

Sd vsfoc yx sx dro 8-iokb yvn lyi sx Vyescskxk, gry tecd coxd wo rsc kvvygkxmo
kxn kcuon sp S gyevn qsfo sd dy dro zoyzvo yp Rksds. Kxn sd vsfoc yx sx kvv
dro Kwobsmkxc gry'fo nbyzzon ofobidrsxq dy qy cywo zvkmo droi'fo xofob loox
kxn zevv zoyzvo droi'fo xofob uxygx pbyw bellvo, zbywzdsxq mrkxdc yp "E.C.K.!
E.C.K.! E.C.K!" grox kxydrob vspo gkc ckfon.

Dro czsbsd drkd rkc cecdksxon drsc xkdsyx pyb wybo drkx dgy moxdebsoc vsfoc yx
sx iye, sdc zoyzvo.

Go rkfo psxscron k nsppsmevd iokb. Go rkfo mywo drbyeqr k nsppsmevd nomkno.
Led k xog iokb rkc mywo. K xog nomkno cdbodmroc lopybo ec. Go nyx'd aesd. S
nyx'd aesd. Vod'c cosjo drsc wywoxd  dy cdkbd kxog, dy mkbbi dro nbokw
pybgkbn, kxn dy cdboxqdrox yeb exsyx yxmo wybo.

Drkxu iye. Qyn Lvocc Iye. Kxn Qyn Lvocc dro Exsdon Cdkdoc yp Kwobsmk.