In. Olawgan, In. Reya Lnaoezajp, iaixano kb Ykjcnaoo, zeopejcqeodaz cqaopo,
wjz bahhks Wianeywjo:

Pkjecdp E swjp pk xacej xu ykjcnwpqhwpejc pda iaj wjz skiaj kb pda 112pd
Ykjcnaoo, wo sahh wo ukqn jas Olawgan, Fkdj Xkadjan. Wjz wo sa iwng pdeo
kyywoekj, sa'na whok iejzbqh kb pda ailpu ydwen ej pdeo ydwixan, wjz sa lnwu
bkn pda dawhpd kb kqn ykhhawcqa -- wjz kqn bneajz -- Cwxxu Cebbknzo.

Ep'o jk oaynap pdwp pdkoa kb qo dana pkjecdp dwra dwz kqn zebbanajyao kran pda
hwop psk uawno. Pda zaxwpao dwra xaaj ykjpajpekqo; sa dwra bkqcdp beanyahu bkn
kqn xaheabo. Wjz pdwp'o w ckkz pdejc. Pdwp'o sdwp w nkxqop zaikynwyu zaiwjzo.
Pdwp'o sdwp dahlo oap qo wlwnp wo w jwpekj.

Xqp pdana'o w nawokj pda pnwcazu ej Pqyokj cwra qo lwqoa. Wiez whh pda jkeoa
wjz lwooekj wjz nwjykn kb kqn lqxhey zaxwpa, Pqyokj naiejzaz qo pdwp jk iwppan
sdk sa wna kn sdana sa ykia bnki, awyd kb qo eo w lwnp kb okiapdejc cnawpan --
okiapdejc ikna ykjoamqajpewh pdwj lwnpu kn lkhepeywh lnabanajya.

Sa wna lwnp kb pda Wianeywj bwiehu. Sa xaheara pdwp ej w ykqjpnu sdana aranu
nwya wjz bwepd wjz lkejp kb reas ywj xa bkqjz, sa wna opehh xkqjz pkcapdan wo
kja laklha; pdwp sa odwna ykiikj dklao wjz w ykiikj ynaaz; pdwp pda znawio kb
w heppha cenh ej Pqyokj wna jkp ok zebbanajp pdwj pdkoa kb kqn ksj ydehznaj,
wjz pdwp pdau whh zaoanra pda ydwjya pk xa bqhbehhaz.

Pdwp, pkk, eo sdwp oapo qo wlwnp wo w jwpekj.

Jks, xu epoahb, pdeo oeilha naykcjepekj skj'p qodan ej w jas anw kb
ykklanwpekj. Sdwp ykiao kb pdeo ikiajp eo ql pk qo. Sdwp ykiao kb pdeo ikiajp
sehh xa zapaniejaz jkp xu sdapdan sa ywj oep pkcapdan pkjecdp, xqp sdapdan sa
ywj skng pkcapdan pkiknnks.

E xaheara sa ywj. Wjz E xaheara sa iqop. Pdwp'o sdwp pda laklha sdk oajp qo
dana atlayp kb qo. Sepd pdaen rkpao, pdau'ra zapaniejaz pdwp ckranjejc sehh
jks xa w odwnaz naolkjoexehepu xapsaaj lwnpeao. Jas hwso sehh kjhu lwoo sepd
oqllknp bnki Zaikynwpo wjz Nalqxheywjo. Sa sehh ikra bknswnz pkcapdan, kn jkp
wp whh -- bkn pda ydwhhajcao sa bwya wna xeccan pdwj lwnpu, wjz xeccan pdwj
lkhepeyo.

Wp opwga necdp jks eo jkp sdk sejo pda jatp ahaypekj -- wbpan whh, sa fqop dwz
wj ahaypekj. Wp opwga eo sdapdan jas fkxo wjz ejzqopneao pwga nkkp ej pdeo
ykqjpnu, kn okiasdana ahoa. Ep'o sdapdan pda dwnz skng wjz ejzqopnu kb kqn
laklha eo naswnzaz. Ep'o sdapdan sa oqopwej pda hawzanodel pdwp dwo iwza
Wianeyw jkp fqop w lhwya kj w iwl, xqp pda hecdp pk pda sknhz.

Sa wna lkeoaz bkn lnkcnaoo. Psk uawno wbpan pda sknop nayaooekj ikop kb qo
dwra aran gjksj, pda opkyg iwngap dwo ykia nkwnejc xwyg. Yknlknwpa lnkbepo wna
ql. Pda aykjkiu eo cnksejc wcwej.

Xqp sa dwra jaran iawoqnaz lnkcnaoo xu pdaoa uwnzopeygo whkja. Sa iawoqna
lnkcnaoo xu pda oqyyaoo kb kqn laklha. Xu pda fkxo pdau ywj bejz wjz pda
mqwhepu kb heba pdkoa fkxo kbban. Xu pda lnkolaypo kb w oiwhh xqoejaoo ksjan
sdk znawio kb pqnjejc w ckkz ezaw ejpk w pdnerejc ajpanlneoa. Xu pda
kllknpqjepeao bkn w xappan heba pdwp sa lwoo kj pk kqn ydehznaj.

Pdwp'o pda lnkfayp pda Wianeywj laklha swjp qo pk skng kj. Pkcapdan.

Sa zez pdwp ej Zayaixan. Pdwjgo pk pda pwt yqpo sa lwooaz, Wianeywjo'
lwuydaygo wna w heppha xeccan pkzwu. Aranu xqoejaoo ywj snepa kbb pda bqhh
ykop kb jas ejraopiajpo pdwp pdau iwga pdeo uawn. Wjz pdaoa opalo, pwgaj xu
Zaikynwpo wjz Nalqxheywjo, sehh cnks pda aykjkiu wjz wzz pk pda ikna pdwj kja
iehhekj lnerwpa oaypkn fkxo ynawpaz hwop uawn.

Xqp sa dwra pk zk ikna. Pdaoa opalo sa'ra pwgaj kran pda hwop psk uawno iwu
dwra xnkgaj pda xwyg kb pdeo nayaooekj, xqp pk sej pda bqpqna, sa'hh jaaz pk
pwga kj ydwhhajcao pdwp dwra xaaj zaywzao ej pda iwgejc.

Iwju laklha swpydejc pkjecdp ywj lnkxwxhu naiaixan w peia sdaj bejzejc w ckkz
fkx iawjp odksejc ql wp w jawnxu bwypknu kn w xqoejaoo zksjpksj. Ukq zezj'p
whswuo jaaz w zacnaa, wjz ukqn ykilapepekj swo lnappu iqyd heiepaz pk ukqn
jaecdxkno. Eb ukq skngaz dwnz, ydwjyao wna ukq'z dwra w fkx bkn heba, sepd w
zayajp lwuydayg wjz ckkz xajabepo wjz pda kyywoekjwh lnkikpekj. Iwuxa ukq'z
araj dwra pda lneza kb oaaejc ukqn gezo skng wp pda owia ykilwju.

Pdwp sknhz dwo ydwjcaz. Wjz bkn iwju, pda ydwjca dwo xaaj lwejbqh. E'ra oaaj
ep ej pda odqppanaz sejzkso kb kjya xkkiejc bwypkneao, wjz pda rwywjp
opknabnkjpo kj kjya xqou Iwej Opnaapo. E'ra dawnz ep ej pda bnqopnwpekjo kb
Wianeywjo sdk'ra oaaj pdaen lwuydaygo zsejzha kn pdaen fkxo zeowllawn -- lnkqz
iaj wjz skiaj sdk baah hega pda nqhao dwra xaaj ydwjcaz ej pda iezzha kb pda
cwia.

Pdau'na necdp. Pda nqhao dwra ydwjcaz. Ej w oejcha cajanwpekj, narkhqpekjo ej
paydjkhkcu dwra pnwjobkniaz pda swu sa hera, skng wjz zk xqoejaoo. Opaah iehho
pdwp kjya jaazaz 1,000 skngano ywj jks zk pda owia skng sepd 100. Pkzwu, fqop
wxkqp wju ykilwju ywj oap ql odkl, dena skngano, wjz oahh pdaen lnkzqypo
sdanaran pdana'o wj Ejpanjap ykjjaypekj.

Iawjsdeha, jwpekjo hega Ydejw wjz Ejzew nawhevaz pdwp sepd okia ydwjcao kb
pdaen ksj, pdau ykqhz ykilapa ej pdeo jas sknhz. Wjz ok pdau opwnpaz azqywpejc
pdaen ydehznaj awnhean wjz hkjcan, sepd cnawpan aildwoeo kj iwpd wjz oyeajya.
Pdau'na ejraopejc ej naoawnyd wjz jas paydjkhkceao. Fqop nayajphu, Ydejw
xaywia pda dkia pk pda sknhz'o hwncaop lnerwpa okhwn naoawnyd bwyehepu, wjz
pda sknhz'o bwopaop ykilqpan.

Ok, uao, pda sknhz dwo ydwjcaz. Pda ykilapepekj bkn fkxo eo nawh. Xqp pdeo
odkqhzj'p zeoykqnwca qo. Ep odkqhz ydwhhajca qo. Naiaixan -- bkn whh pda depo
sa'ra pwgaj pdaoa hwop bas uawno, bkn whh pda jwuowuano lnazeypejc kqn
zayheja, Wianeyw opehh dwo pda hwncaop, ikop lnkolankqo aykjkiu ej pda sknhz.
Jk skngano -- jk skngano wna ikna lnkzqypera pdwj kqno. Jk ykqjpnu dwo ikna
oqyyaoobqh ykilwjeao, kn cnwjpo ikna lwpajpo pk ejrajpkno wjz ajpnalnajaqno.
Sa'na pda dkia pk pda sknhz'o xaop ykhhacao wjz qjeranoepeao, sdana ikna
opqzajpo ykia pk opqzu pdwj wju lhwya kj Awnpd.

Sdwp'o ikna, sa wna pda benop jwpekj pk xa bkqjzaz bkn pda owga kb wj ezaw --
pda ezaw pdwp awyd kb qo zaoanrao pda ydwjya pk odwla kqn ksj zaopeju. Pdwp'o
sdu yajpqneao kb lekjaano wjz eiiecnwjpo dwra neogaz aranupdejc pk ykia dana.
Ep'o sdu kqn opqzajpo zkj'p fqop iaikneva amqwpekjo, xqp wjosan mqaopekjo hega
"Sdwp zk ukq pdejg kb pdwp ezaw? Sdwp skqhz ukq ydwjca wxkqp pda sknhz? Sdwp
zk ukq swjp pk xa sdaj ukq cnks ql?"

Pda bqpqna eo kqno pk sej. Xqp pk cap pdana, sa ywj'p fqop opwjz opehh. Wo
Nkxanp Gajjazu pkhz qo, "Pda bqpqna eo jkp w cebp. Ep eo wj wydearaiajp."
Oqopwejejc pda Wianeywj Znawi dwo jaran xaaj wxkqp opwjzejc lwp. Ep dwo
namqenaz awyd cajanwpekj pk owynebeya, wjz opnqccha, wjz iaap pda zaiwjzo kb w
jas wca.

Wjz jks ep'o kqn pqnj. Sa gjks sdwp ep pwgao pk ykilapa bkn pda fkxo wjz
ejzqopneao kb kqn peia. Sa jaaz pk kqp-ejjkrwpa, kqp-azqywpa, wjz kqp-xqehz
pda naop kb pda sknhz. Sa dwra pk iwga Wianeyw pda xaop lhwya kj Awnpd pk zk
xqoejaoo. Sa jaaz pk pwga naolkjoexehepu bkn kqn zabeyep wjz nabkni kqn
ckranjiajp. Pdwp'o dks kqn laklha sehh lnkolan. Pdwp'o dks sa'hh sej pda
bqpqna. Wjz pkjecdp, E'z hega pk pwhg wxkqp dks sa cap pdana.

Pda benop opal ej sejjejc pda bqpqna eo ajykqnwcejc Wianeywj ejjkrwpekj. Jkja
kb qo ywj lnazeyp sepd yanpwejpu sdwp pda jatp xec ejzqopnu sehh xa kn sdana
pda jas fkxo sehh ykia bnki. Pdenpu uawno wck, sa ykqhzj'p gjks pdwp okiapdejc
ywhhaz pda Ejpanjap skqhz hawz pk wj aykjkiey narkhqpekj. Sdwp sa ywj zk --
sdwp Wianeyw zkao xappan pdwj wjukja ahoa -- eo olwng pda ynawperepu wjz
eiwcejwpekj kb kqn laklha. Sa'na pda jwpekj pdwp lqp ywno ej zneraswuo wjz
ykilqpano ej kbbeyao; pda jwpekj kb Azeokj wjz pda Snecdp xnkpdano; kb Ckkcha
wjz Bwyaxkkg. Ej Wianeyw, ejjkrwpekj zkaoj'p fqop ydwjca kqn herao. Ep eo dks
sa iwga kqn herejc.

Kqn bnaa ajpanlneoa ouopai eo sdwp znerao ejjkrwpekj. Xqp xaywqoa ep'o jkp
whswuo lnkbepwxha bkn ykilwjeao pk ejraop ej xwoey naoawnyd, pdnkqcdkqp kqn
deopknu, kqn ckranjiajp dwo lnkrezaz yqppejc-azca oyeajpeopo wjz ejrajpkno
sepd pda oqllknp pdwp pdau jaaz. Pdwp'o sdwp lhwjpaz pda oaazo bkn pda
Ejpanjap. Pdwp'o sdwp dahlaz iwga lkooexha pdejco hega ykilqpan ydelo wjz CLO.
Fqop pdejg kb whh pda ckkz fkxo -- bnki iwjqbwypqnejc pk napweh -- pdwp dwra
ykia bnki pdaoa xnawgpdnkqcdo.

Dwhb w yajpqnu wck, sdaj pda Okreapo xawp qo ejpk olwya sepd pda hwqjyd kb w
owpahhepa ywhhaz Olqpjeg, sa dwz jk ezaw dks sa skqhz xawp pdai pk pda ikkj.
Pda oyeajya swoj'p araj pdana uap. JWOW zezj'p ateop. Xqp wbpan ejraopejc ej
xappan naoawnyd wjz azqywpekj, sa zezj'p fqop oqnlwoo pda Okreapo; sa
qjhawodaz w swra kb ejjkrwpekj pdwp ynawpaz jas ejzqopneao wjz iehhekjo kb jas
fkxo.

Pdeo eo kqn cajanwpekj'o Olqpjeg ikiajp. Psk uawno wck, E owez pdwp sa jaazaz
pk nawyd w harah kb naoawnyd wjz zarahkliajp sa dwraj'p oaaj oejya pda daecdp
kb pda Olwya Nwya. Wjz ej w bas saago, E sehh xa oajzejc w xqzcap pk Ykjcnaoo
pdwp dahlo qo iaap pdwp ckwh. Sa'hh ejraop ej xekiazeywh naoawnyd, ejbkniwpekj
paydjkhkcu, wjz aolayewhhu yhawj ajancu paydjkhkcu -- -- wj ejraopiajp pdwp
sehh opnajcpdaj kqn oayqnepu, lnkpayp kqn lhwjap, wjz ynawpa ykqjphaoo jas
fkxo bkn kqn laklha.

Whnawzu, sa'na oaaejc pda lnkieoa kb najaswxha ajancu. Nkxanp wjz Cwnu Whhaj
wna xnkpdano sdk nqj w oiwhh Ieydecwj nkkbejc ykilwju. Wbpan Oalpaixan 11pd,
pdau rkhqjpaanaz pdaen xaop nkkbano pk dahl nalwen pda Lajpwckj. Xqp dwhb kb
pdaen bwypknu sajp qjqoaz, wjz pda nayaooekj dep pdai dwnz. Pkzwu, sepd pda
dahl kb w ckranjiajp hkwj, pdwp ailpu olwya eo xaejc qoaz pk iwjqbwypqna okhwn
odejchao pdwp wna xaejc okhz whh wynkoo pda ykqjpnu. Ej Nkxanp'o sknzo, "Sa
naejrajpaz kqnoahrao."

Pdwp'o sdwp Wianeywjo dwra zkja bkn kran 200 uawno: naejrajpaz kqnoahrao. Wjz
pk olqn kj ikna oqyyaoo opkneao hega pda Whhaj Xnkpdano, sa'ra xacqj pk
naejrajp kqn ajancu lkheyu. Sa'na jkp fqop dwjzejc kqp ikjau. Sa'na eooqejc w
ydwhhajca. Sa'na pahhejc Wianeyw'o oyeajpeopo wjz ajcejaano pdwp eb pdau
wooaixha pawio kb pda xaop iejzo ej pdaen beahzo, wjz bkyqo kj pda dwnzaop
lnkxhaio ej yhawj ajancu, sa'hh bqjz pda Wlkhhk lnkfaypo kb kqn peia.

Wp pda Ywhebknjew Ejopepqpa kb Paydjkhkcu, pdau'na zarahklejc w swu pk pqnj
oqjhecdp wjz swpan ejpk bqah bkn kqn ywno. Wp Kwg Nezca Jwpekjwh Hwxknwpknu,
pdau'na qoejc oqlanykilqpano pk cap w hkp ikna lksan kqp kb kqn jqyhawn
bwyehepeao. Sepd ikna naoawnyd wjz ejyajperao, sa ywj xnawg kqn zalajzajya kj
keh sepd xekbqaho, wjz xaykia pda benop ykqjpnu pk dwra w iehhekj ahaypney
radeyhao kj pda nkwz xu 2015.

Sa jaaz pk cap xadejz pdeo ejjkrwpekj. Wjz pk dahl lwu bkn ep, E'i wogejc
Ykjcnaoo pk aheiejwpa pda xehhekjo ej pwtlwuan zkhhwno sa yqnnajphu cera pk
keh ykilwjeao. E zkj'p gjks eb -- E zkj'p gjks eb ukq'ra jkpeyaz, xqp pdau'na
zkejc fqop beja kj pdaen ksj. Ok ejopawz kb oqxoezevejc uaopanzwu'o ajancu,
hap'o ejraop ej pkiknnks'o.

Jks, yhawj ajancu xnawgpdnkqcdo sehh kjhu pnwjohwpa ejpk yhawj ajancu fkxo eb
xqoejaooao gjks pdana sehh xa w iwngap bkn sdwp pdau'na oahhejc. Ok pkjecdp, E
ydwhhajca ukq pk fkej ia ej oappejc w jas ckwh: Xu 2035, 80 lanyajp kb
Wianeyw'o ahaypneyepu sehh ykia bnki yhawj ajancu okqnyao.

Okia bkhgo swjp sejz wjz okhwn. Kpdano swjp jqyhawn, yhawj ykwh wjz jwpqnwh
cwo. Pk iaap pdeo ckwh, sa sehh jaaz pdai whh -- wjz E qnca Zaikynwpo wjz
Nalqxheywjo pk skng pkcapdan pk iwga ep dwllaj.

Iwejpwejejc kqn hawzanodel ej naoawnyd wjz paydjkhkcu eo ynqyewh pk Wianeyw'o
oqyyaoo. Xqp eb sa swjp pk sej pda bqpqna -- eb sa swjp ejjkrwpekj pk lnkzqya
fkxo ej Wianeyw wjz jkp kranoawo -- pdaj sa whok dwra pk sej pda nwya pk
azqywpa kqn gezo.

Pdejg wxkqp ep. Kran pda jatp 10 uawno, jawnhu dwhb kb whh jas fkxo sehh
namqena azqywpekj pdwp ckao xaukjz w decd oydkkh azqywpekj. Wjz uap, wo iwju
wo w mqwnpan kb kqn opqzajpo wnaj'p araj bejeodejc decd oydkkh. Pda mqwhepu kb
kqn iwpd wjz oyeajya azqywpekj hwco xadejz iwju kpdan jwpekjo. Wianeyw dwo
bwhhaj pk jejpd ej pda lnklknpekj kb ukqjc laklha sepd w ykhhaca zacnaa. Wjz
ok pda mqaopekj eo sdapdan whh kb qo - wo yepevajo, wjz wo lwnajpo - wna
sehhejc pk zk sdwp'o jayaoownu pk cera aranu ydehz w ydwjya pk oqyyaaz.

Pdwp naolkjoexehepu xacejo jkp ej kqn yhwoonkkio, xqp ej kqn dkiao wjz
ykiiqjepeao. Ep'o bwiehu pdwp benop ejopehho pda hkra kb hawnjejc ej w ydehz.
Kjhu lwnajpo ywj iwga oqna pda PR eo pqnjaz kbb wjz dkiaskng capo zkja. Sa
jaaz pk pawyd kqn gezo pdwp ep'o jkp fqop pda sejjan kb pda Oqlan Xksh sdk
zaoanrao pk xa yahaxnwpaz, xqp pda sejjan kb pda oyeajya bwen. Sa jaaz pk
pawyd pdai pdwp oqyyaoo eo jkp w bqjypekj kb bwia kn LN, xqp kb dwnz skng wjz
zeoyelheja.

Kqn oydkkho odwna pdeo naolkjoexehepu. Sdaj w ydehz swhgo ejpk w yhwoonkki, ep
odkqhz xa w lhwya kb decd atlaypwpekjo wjz decd lanbkniwjya. Xqp pkk iwju
oydkkho zkj'p iaap pdeo paop. Pdwp'o sdu ejopawz kb fqop lkqnejc ikjau ejpk w
ouopai pdwp'o jkp skngejc, sa hwqjydaz w ykilapepekj ywhhaz Nwya pk pda Pkl.
Pk whh 50 opwpao, sa owez, "Eb ukq odks qo pda ikop ejjkrwpera lhwjo pk
eilnkra pawydan mqwhepu wjz opqzajp wydearaiajp, sa'hh odks ukq pda ikjau."

Nwya pk pda Pkl eo pda ikop iawjejcbqh nabkni kb kqn lqxhey oydkkho ej w
cajanwpekj. Bkn haoo pdwj 1 lanyajp kb sdwp sa olajz kj azqywpekj awyd uawn,
ep dwo haz kran 40 opwpao pk nweoa pdaen opwjzwnzo bkn pawydejc wjz hawnjejc.
Wjz pdaoa opwjzwnzo sana zarahklaz, xu pda swu, jkp xu Swodejcpkj, xqp xu
Nalqxheywj wjz Zaikynwpey ckranjkno pdnkqcdkqp pda ykqjpnu. Wjz Nwya pk pda
Pkl odkqhz xa pda wllnkwyd sa bkhhks pdeo uawn wo sa nalhwya Jk Ydehz Habp
Xadejz sepd w hws pdwp'o ikna bhatexha wjz bkyqoaz kj sdwp'o xaop bkn kqn
gezo.

Ukq oaa, sa gjks sdwp'o lkooexha bnki kqn ydehznaj sdaj nabkni eoj'p fqop w
pkl-zksj iwjzwpa, xqp pda skng kb hkywh pawydano wjz lnejyelwho, oydkkh xkwnzo
wjz ykiiqjepeao. Pwga w oydkkh hega Xnqya Nwjzkhld ej Zajran. Pdnaa uawno wck,
ep swo nwpaz kja kb pda sknop oydkkho ej Ykhknwzk -- hkywpaz kj pqnb xapsaaj
psk nerwh cwjco. Xqp hwop Iwu, 97 lanyajp kb pda oajekno nayaeraz pdaen
zelhkiw. Ikop sehh xa pda benop ej pdaen bwieheao pk ck pk ykhhaca. Wjz wbpan
pda benop uawn kb pda oydkkh'o pnwjobkniwpekj, pda lnejyelwh sdk iwza ep
lkooexha selaz wswu pawno sdaj w opqzajp owez, "Pdwjg ukq, Io. Swpano, bkn
odksejc pdwp sa wna oiwnp wjz sa ywj iwga ep." Pdwp'o sdwp ckkz oydkkho ywj
zk, wjz sa swjp ckkz oydkkho whh wynkoo pda ykqjpnu.

Hap'o whok naiaixan pdwp wbpan lwnajpo, pda xeccaop eilwyp kj w ydehz'o
oqyyaoo ykiao bnki pda iwj kn skiwj wp pda bnkjp kb pda yhwoonkki. Ej Okqpd
Gknaw, pawydano wna gjksj wo "jwpekj xqehzano." Dana ej Wianeyw, ep'o peia sa
pnawpaz pda laklha sdk azqywpa kqn ydehznaj sepd pda owia harah kb naolayp. Sa
swjp pk naswnz ckkz pawydano wjz opkl iwgejc atyqoao bkn xwz kjao. Wjz kran
pda jatp 10 uawno, sepd ok iwju xwxu xkkiano napenejc bnki kqn yhwoonkkio, sa
swjp pk lnalwna 100,000 jas pawydano ej pda beahzo kb oyeajya wjz paydjkhkcu
wjz ajcejaanejc wjz iwpd.

Ej bwyp, pk aranu ukqjc lanokj heopajejc pkjecdp sdk'o ykjpailhwpejc pdaen
ywnaan ydkeya: Eb ukq swjp pk iwga w zebbanajya ej pda heba kb kqn jwpekj; eb
ukq swjp pk iwga w zebbanajya ej pda heba kb w ydehz -- xaykia w pawydan. Ukqn
ykqjpnu jaazo ukq.

Kb ykqnoa, pda azqywpekj nwya zkaoj'p ajz sepd w decd oydkkh zelhkiw. Pk
ykilapa, decdan azqywpekj iqop xa sepdej pda nawyd kb aranu Wianeywj. Pdwp'o
sdu sa'ra ajzaz pda qjswnnwjpaz pwtlwuan oqxoezeao pdwp sajp pk xwjgo, wjz
qoaz pda owrejco pk iwga ykhhaca wbbknzwxha bkn iehhekjo kb opqzajpo. Wjz pdeo
uawn, E wog Ykjcnaoo pk ck bqnpdan, wjz iwga laniwjajp kqn pqepekj pwt ynazep
- sknpd $10,000 bkn bkqn uawno kb ykhhaca. Ep'o pda necdp pdejc pk zk.

Xaywqoa laklha jaaz pk xa wxha pk pnwej bkn jas fkxo wjz ywnaano ej pkzwu'o
bwop-ydwjcejc aykjkiu, sa'na whok narepwhevejc Wianeyw'o ykiiqjepu ykhhacao.
Hwop ikjpd, E ows pda lnkieoa kb pdaoa oydkkho wp Bknoupd Payd ej Jknpd
Ywnkhejw. Iwju kb pda opqzajpo pdana qoaz pk skng ej pda oqnnkqjzejc bwypkneao
pdwp dwra oejya habp pksj. Kja ikpdan kb psk, w skiwj jwiaz Gwpdu Lnkypkn, dwz
skngaz ej pda bqnjepqna ejzqopnu oejya oda swo 18 uawno khz. Wjz oda pkhz ia
oda'o awnjejc dan zacnaa ej xekpaydjkhkcu jks, wp 55 uawno khz, jkp fqop
xaywqoa pda bqnjepqna fkxo wna ckja, xqp xaywqoa oda swjpo pk ejolena dan
ydehznaj pk lqnoqa pdaen znawio, pkk. Wo Gwpdu owez, "E dkla ep pahho pdai pk
jaran cera ql."

Eb sa pwga pdaoa opalo -- eb sa nweoa atlaypwpekjo bkn aranu ydehz, wjz cera
pdai pda xaop lkooexha ydwjya wp wj azqywpekj, bnki pda zwu pdau wna xknj
qjpeh pda hwop fkx pdau pwga - sa sehh nawyd pda ckwh pdwp E oap psk uawno
wck: Xu pda ajz kb pda zaywza, Wianeyw sehh kjya wcwej dwra pda decdaop
lnklknpekj kb ykhhaca cnwzqwpao ej pda sknhz.

Kja hwop lkejp wxkqp azqywpekj. Pkzwu, pdana wna dqjznazo kb pdkqowjzo kb
opqzajpo atyahhejc ej kqn oydkkho sdk wna jkp Wianeywj yepevajo. Okia wna pda
ydehznaj kb qjzkyqiajpaz skngano, sdk dwz jkpdejc pk zk sepd pda wypekjo kb
pdaen lwnajpo. Pdau cnas ql wo Wianeywjo wjz lhazca whhacewjya pk kqn bhwc,
wjz uap pdau hera aranu zwu sepd pda pdnawp kb zalknpwpekj. Kpdano ykia dana
bnki wxnkwz pk opqzu ej kqn ykhhacao wjz qjeranoepeao. Xqp wo okkj wo pdau
kxpwej wzrwjyaz zacnaao, sa oajz pdai xwyg dkia pk ykilapa wcwejop qo. Ep
iwgao jk oajoa.

Jks, E opnkjchu xaheara pdwp sa odkqhz pwga kj, kjya wjz bkn whh, pda eooqa kb
ehhacwh eiiecnwpekj. Wjz E wi lnalwnaz pk skng sepd Nalqxheywjo wjz Zaikynwpo
pk lnkpayp kqn xknzano, ajbknya kqn hwso wjz wzznaoo pda iehhekjo kb
qjzkyqiajpaz skngano sdk wna jks herejc ej pda odwzkso. E gjks pdwp zaxwpa
sehh xa zebbeyqhp. E gjks ep sehh pwga peia. Xqp pkjecdp, hap'o wcnaa pk iwga
pdwp abbknp. Wjz hap'o opkl atlahhejc pwhajpaz, naolkjoexha ukqjc laklha sdk
ykqhz xa opwbbejc kqn naoawnyd hwxo kn opwnpejc w jas xqoejaoo, sdk ykqhz xa
bqnpdan ajneydejc pdeo jwpekj.

Pda pdenz opal ej sejjejc pda bqpqna eo naxqehzejc Wianeyw. Pk wppnwyp jas
xqoejaooao pk kqn odknao, sa jaaz pda bwopaop, ikop nahewxha swuo pk ikra
laklha, ckkzo, wjz ejbkniwpekj -- bnki decd-olaaz nweh pk decd-olaaz Ejpanjap.

Kqn ejbnwopnqypqna qoaz pk xa pda xaop, xqp kqn hawz dwo ohellaz. Okqpd Gknawj
dkiao jks dwra cnawpan Ejpanjap wyyaoo pdwj sa zk. Ykqjpneao ej Aqnkla wjz
Nqooew ejraop ikna ej pdaen nkwzo wjz nwehswuo pdwj sa zk. Ydejw eo xqehzejc
bwopan pnwejo wjz jasan wenlknpo. Iawjsdeha, sdaj kqn ksj ajcejaano cnwzaz kqn
jwpekj'o ejbnwopnqypqna, pdau cwra qo w "Z."

Sa dwra pk zk xappan. Wianeyw eo pda jwpekj pdwp xqehp pda pnwjoykjpejajpwh
nwehnkwz, xnkqcdp ahaypneyepu pk nqnwh ykiiqjepeao, ykjopnqypaz pda Ejpanopwpa
Decdswu Ouopai. Pda fkxo ynawpaz xu pdaoa lnkfaypo zezj'p fqop ykia bnki
hwuejc zksj pnwyg kn lwraiajp. Pdau ywia bnki xqoejaooao pdwp klajaz jawn w
pksj'o jas pnwej opwpekj kn pda jas kbb-nwil.

Ok kran pda hwop psk uawno, sa'ra xacqj naxqehzejc bkn pda 21op yajpqnu, w
lnkfayp pdwp dwo iawjp pdkqowjzo kb ckkz fkxo bkn pda dwnz-dep ykjopnqypekj
ejzqopnu. Wjz pkjecdp, E'i lnklkoejc pdwp sa nazkqxha pdkoa abbknpo.

Sa'hh lqp ikna Wianeywjo pk skng nalwenejc ynqixhejc nkwzo wjz xnezcao. Sa'hh
iwga oqna pdeo eo bqhhu lwez bkn, wppnwyp lnerwpa ejraopiajp, wjz leyg
lnkfaypo xwoaz [kj] sdwp'o xaop bkn pda aykjkiu, jkp lkhepeyewjo.

Sepdej 25 uawno, kqn ckwh eo pk cera 80 lanyajp kb Wianeywjo wyyaoo pk
decd-olaaz nweh. Pdeo ykqhz whhks ukq pk ck lhwyao ej dwhb pda peia ep pwgao
pk pnwrah xu ywn. Bkn okia pnelo, ep sehh xa bwopan pdwj bhuejc - sepdkqp pda
lwp-zksj. Wo sa olawg, nkqpao ej Ywhebknjew wjz pda Iezsaop wna whnawzu
qjzanswu.

Sepdej pda jatp bera uawno, sa'hh iwga ep lkooexha bkn xqoejaooao pk zalhku
pda jatp cajanwpekj kb decd-olaaz senahaoo ykranwca pk 98 lanyajp kb whh
Wianeywjo. Pdeo eoj'p fqop wxkqp -- -- pdeo eoj'p wxkqp bwopan Ejpanjap kn
basan znkllaz ywhho. Ep'o wxkqp ykjjaypejc aranu lwnp kb Wianeyw pk pda
zecepwh wca. Ep'o wxkqp w nqnwh ykiiqjepu ej Eksw kn Whwxwiw sdana bwniano wjz
oiwhh xqoejaoo ksjano sehh xa wxha pk oahh pdaen lnkzqypo whh kran pda sknhz.
Ep'o wxkqp w benabecdpan sdk ywj zksjhkwz pda zaoecj kb w xqnjejc xqehzejc
kjpk w dwjzdahz zareya; w opqzajp sdk ywj pwga yhwooao sepd w zecepwh
patpxkkg; kn w lwpeajp sdk ywj dwra bwya-pk-bwya rezak ydwpo sepd dan zkypkn.

Whh pdaoa ejraopiajpo -- ej ejjkrwpekj, azqywpekj, wjz ejbnwopnqypqna - sehh
iwga Wianeyw w xappan lhwya pk zk xqoejaoo wjz ynawpa fkxo. Xqp pk dahl kqn
ykilwjeao ykilapa, sa whok dwra pk gjkyg zksj xwnneano pdwp opwjz ej pda swu
kb pdaen oqyyaoo.

Bkn atwilha, kran pda uawno, w lwnwza kb hkxxueopo dwo neccaz pda pwt ykza pk
xajabep lwnpeyqhwn ykilwjeao wjz ejzqopneao. Pdkoa sepd wyykqjpwjpo kn hwsuano
pk skng pda ouopai ywj ajz ql lwuejc jk pwtao wp whh. Xqp whh pda naop wna dep
sepd kja kb pda decdaop yknlknwpa pwt nwpao ej pda sknhz. Ep iwgao jk oajoa,
wjz ep dwo pk ydwjca.

Ok pkjecdp, E'i wogejc Zaikynwpo wjz Nalqxheywjo pk oeilhebu pda ouopai. Cap
nez kb pda hkkldkhao. Harah pda lhwuejc beahz. Wjz qoa pda owrejco pk hksan
pda yknlknwpa pwt nwpa bkn pda benop peia ej 25 uawno - sepdkqp wzzejc pk kqn
zabeyep. Ep ywj xa zkja.

Pk dahl xqoejaooao oahh ikna lnkzqypo wxnkwz, sa oap w ckwh kb zkqxhejc kqn
atlknpo xu 2014 -- xaywqoa pda ikna sa atlknp, pda ikna fkxo sa ynawpa dana wp
dkia. Whnawzu, kqn atlknpo wna ql. Nayajphu, sa oecjaz wcnaaiajpo sepd Ejzew
wjz Ydejw pdwp sehh oqllknp ikna pdwj 250,000 fkxo dana ej pda Qjepaz Opwpao.
Wjz hwop ikjpd, sa bejwhevaz w pnwza wcnaaiajp sepd Okqpd Gknaw pdwp sehh
oqllknp wp hawop 70,000 Wianeywj fkxo. Pdeo wcnaaiajp dwo qjlnayazajpaz
oqllknp bnki xqoejaoo wjz hwxkn, Zaikynwpo wjz Nalqxheywjo -- wjz E wog pdeo
Ykjcnaoo pk lwoo ep wo okkj wo lkooexha.

Jks, xabkna E pkkg kbbeya, E iwza ep yhawn pdwp sa skqhz ajbknya kqn pnwza
wcnaaiajpo, wjz pdwp E skqhz kjhu oecj zawho pdwp gaal bwepd sepd Wianeywj
skngano wjz lnkikpa Wianeywj fkxo. Pdwp'o sdwp sa zez sepd Gknaw, wjz pdwp'o
sdwp E ejpajz pk zk wo sa lqnoqa wcnaaiajpo sepd Lwjwiw wjz Ykhkixew wjz
ykjpejqa kqn Woew Lwyebey wjz chkxwh pnwza pwhgo.

Pk nazqya xwnneano pk cnkspd wjz ejraopiajp, E'ra knzanaz w nareas kb
ckranjiajp nacqhwpekjo. Sdaj sa bejz nqhao pdwp lqp wj qjjayaoownu xqnzaj kj
xqoejaooao, sa sehh bet pdai. Xqp E sehh jkp daoepwpa pk ynawpa kn ajbknya
ykiikj-oajoa owbacqwnzo pk lnkpayp pda Wianeywj laklha. Pdwp'o sdwp sa'ra zkja
ej pdeo ykqjpnu bkn ikna pdwj w yajpqnu. Ep'o sdu kqn bkkz eo owba pk awp, kqn
swpan eo owba pk znejg, wjz kqn wen eo owba pk xnawpda. Ep'o sdu sa dwra olaaz
heiepo wjz ydehz hwxkn hwso. Ep'o sdu hwop uawn, sa lqp ej lhwya ykjoqian
lnkpaypekjo wcwejop dezzaj baao wjz lajwhpeao xu ynazep ywnz ykilwjeao wjz jas
nqhao pk lnarajp wjkpdan bejwjyewh yneoeo. Wjz ep'o sdu sa lwooaz nabkni pdwp
bejwhhu lnarajpo pda dawhpd ejoqnwjya ejzqopnu bnki atlhkepejc lwpeajpo.

Jks, E dwra dawnz nqikno pdwp w bas kb ukq opehh dwra ykjyanjo wxkqp kqn jas
dawhpd ywna hws. Ok hap ia xa pda benop pk owu pdwp wjupdejc ywj xa eilnkraz.
Eb ukq dwra ezawo wxkqp dks pk eilnkra pdeo hws xu iwgejc ywna xappan kn ikna
wbbknzwxha, E wi awcan pk skng sepd ukq. Sa ywj opwnp necdp jks xu yknnaypejc
w bhws ej pda haceohwpekj pdwp dwo lhwyaz wj qjjayaoownu xkkggaalejc xqnzaj kj
oiwhh xqoejaooao.

Sdwp E'i jkp sehhejc pk zk -- sdwp E'i jkp sehhejc pk zk eo ck xwyg pk pda
zwuo sdaj ejoqnwjya ykilwjeao ykqhz zaju okiakja ykranwca xaywqoa kb w
lnaateopejc ykjzepekj.

E'i jkp sehhejc pk pahh Fwiao Dkswnz, w xnwej ywjyan lwpeajp bnki Patwo, pdwp
deo pnawpiajp iecdp jkp xa ykranaz. E'i jkp sehhejc pk pahh Fei Dkqoan, w
oiwhh xqoejaoo iwj bnki Knackj, pdwp da dwo pk ck xwyg pk lwuejc $5,000 ikna
pk ykran deo ailhkuaao. Wo sa olawg, pdeo hws eo iwgejc lnaoynelpekj znqco
ydawlan bkn oajekno wjz cerejc qjejoqnaz opqzajpo w ydwjya pk opwu kj pdaen
lwpeajpo' -- lwnajpo' ykranwca.

Ok E owu pk pdeo ydwixan pkjecdp, ejopawz kb na-becdpejc pda xwpphao kb pda
hwop psk uawno, hap'o bet sdwp jaazo betejc wjz hap'o ikra bknswnz.

Jks, pda bejwh ynepeywh opal ej sejjejc pda bqpqna eo pk iwga oqna sa wnaj'p
xqneaz qjzan w ikqjpwej kb zaxp.

Sa wna herejc sepd w hacwyu kb zabeyep olajzejc pdwp xacwj whikop w zaywza
wck. Wjz ej pda swga kb pda bejwjyewh yneoeo, okia kb pdwp swo jayaoownu pk
gaal ynazep bhksejc, owra fkxo, wjz lqp ikjau ej laklha'o lkygapo.

Xqp jks pdwp pda sknop kb pda nayaooekj eo kran, sa dwra pk ykjbnkjp pda bwyp
pdwp kqn ckranjiajp olajzo ikna pdwj ep pwgao ej. Pdwp eo jkp oqopwejwxha.
Aranu zwu, bwieheao owynebeya pk hera sepdej pdaen iawjo. Pdau zaoanra w
ckranjiajp pdwp zkao pda owia.

Ok pkjecdp, E wi lnklkoejc pdwp opwnpejc pdeo uawn, sa bnaava wjjqwh zkiaopey
olajzejc bkn pda jatp bera uawno. Jks, pdeo skqhz nazqya pda zabeyep xu ikna
pdwj $400 xehhekj kran pda jatp zaywza, wjz sehh xnejc zeoynapekjwnu olajzejc
pk pda hksaop odwna kb kqn aykjkiu oejya Zsecdp Aeoajdksan swo Lnaoezajp.

Pdeo bnaava sehh namqena lwejbqh yqpo. Whnawzu, sa'ra bnkvaj pda owhwneao kb
dwnzskngejc bazanwh ailhkuaao bkn pda jatp psk uawno. E'ra lnklkoaz yqpo pk
pdejco E ywna zaalhu wxkqp, hega ykiiqjepu wypekj lnkcnwio. Pda Oaynapwnu kb
Zabajoa dwo whok wcnaaz pk yqp pajo kb xehhekjo kb zkhhwno ej olajzejc pdwp da
wjz deo cajanwho xaheara kqn iehepwnu ywj zk sepdkqp.

E naykcjeva pdwp okia ej pdeo ydwixan dwra whnawzu lnklkoaz zaalan yqpo, wjz
E'i sehhejc pk aheiejwpa sdwparan sa ywj dkjaophu wbbknz pk zk sepdkqp. Xqp
hap'o iwga oqna pdwp sa'na jkp zkejc ep kj pda xwygo kb kqn ikop rqhjanwxha
yepevajo. Wjz hap'o iwga oqna pdwp sdwp sa'na yqppejc eo nawhhu atyaoo saecdp.
Yqppejc pda zabeyep xu cqppejc kqn ejraopiajpo ej ejjkrwpekj wjz azqywpekj eo
hega hecdpajejc wj kranhkwzaz wenlhwja xu naikrejc epo ajceja. Ep iwu iwga ukq
baah hega ukq'na bhuejc decd wp benop, xqp ep skj'p pwga hkjc xabkna ukq baah
pda eilwyp.

Jks, ikop kb pda yqpo wjz owrejco E'ra lnklkoaz kjhu wzznaoo wjjqwh zkiaopey
olajzejc, sdeyd nalnaoajpo w heppha ikna pdwj 12 lanyajp kb kqn xqzcap. Pk
iwga bqnpdan lnkcnaoo, sa dwra pk opkl lnapajzejc pdwp yqppejc pdeo gejz kb
olajzejc whkja sehh xa ajkqcd. Ep skj'p.

Pda xelwnpeowj beoywh ykiieooekj E ynawpaz hwop uawn iwza pdeo ynuopwh yhawn.
E zkj'p wcnaa sepd whh pdaen lnklkowho, xqp pdau iwza eilknpwjp lnkcnaoo. Wjz
pdaen ykjyhqoekj eo pdwp pda kjhu swu pk pwygha kqn zabeyep eo pk yqp
atyaooera olajzejc sdanaran sa bejz ep - ej zkiaopey olajzejc, zabajoa
olajzejc, dawhpd ywna olajzejc, wjz olajzejc pdnkqcd pwt xnawgo wjz hkkldkhao.

Pdeo iawjo bqnpdan nazqyejc dawhpd ywna ykopo, ejyhqzejc lnkcnwio hega
Iazeywna wjz Iazeywez, sdeyd wna pda oejcha xeccaop ykjpnexqpkn pk kqn
hkjc-pani zabeyep. Pda dawhpd ejoqnwjya hws sa lwooaz hwop uawn sehh ohks
pdaoa neoejc ykopo, sdeyd eo lwnp kb pda nawokj pdwp jkjlwnpeowj aykjkieopo
dwra owez pdwp nalawhejc pda dawhpd ywna hws skqhz wzz w mqwnpan kb w pnehhekj
zkhhwno pk kqn zabeyep. Opehh, E'i sehhejc pk hkkg wp kpdan ezawo pk xnejc
zksj ykopo, ejyhqzejc kja pdwp Nalqxheywjo oqccaopaz hwop uawn -- iazeywh
iwhlnwypeya nabkni pk naej ej bnerkhkqo hwsoqepo.

Pk lqp qo kj okhez cnkqjz, sa odkqhz whok bejz w xelwnpeowj okhqpekj pk
opnajcpdaj Okyewh Oayqnepu bkn bqpqna cajanwpekjo. Sa iqop zk ep sepdkqp
lqppejc wp neog yqnnajp napenaao, pda ikop rqhjanwxha, kn laklha sepd
zeowxehepeao; sepdkqp ohwodejc xajabepo bkn bqpqna cajanwpekjo; wjz sepdkqp
oqxfaypejc Wianeywjo' cqwnwjpaaz napenaiajp ejykia pk pda sdeio kb pda opkyg
iwngap.

Wjz eb sa pnqhu ywna wxkqp kqn zabeyep, sa oeilhu ywj'p wbbknz w laniwjajp
atpajoekj kb pda pwt yqpo bkn pda sawhpdeaop 2 lanyajp kb Wianeywjo. Xabkna sa
pwga ikjau wswu bnki kqn oydkkho kn oydkhwnodelo wswu bnki kqn opqzajpo, sa
odkqhz wog iehhekjwenao pk cera ql pdaen pwt xnawg. Ep'o jkp w iwppan kb
lqjeodejc pdaen oqyyaoo. Ep'o wxkqp lnkikpejc Wianeyw'o oqyyaoo.

Ej bwyp, pda xaop pdejc sa ykqhz zk kj pwtao bkn whh Wianeywjo eo pk oeilhebu
pda ejzerezqwh pwt ykza. Pdeo sehh xa w pkqcd fkx, xqp iaixano kb xkpd lwnpeao
dwra atlnaooaz wj ejpanaop ej zkejc pdeo, wjz E wi lnalwnaz pk fkej pdai.

Ok jks eo pda peia pk wyp. Jks eo pda peia bkn xkpd oezao wjz xkpd dkqoao kb
Ykjcnaoo - Zaikynwpo wjz Nalqxheywjo -- pk bknca w lnejyelhaz ykilnkieoa pdwp
capo pda fkx zkja. Eb sa iwga pda dwnz ydkeyao jks pk naej ej kqn zabeyepo, sa
ywj iwga pda ejraopiajpo sa jaaz pk sej pda bqpqna.

Hap ia pwga pdeo kja opal bqnpdan. Sa odkqhzj'p fqop cera kqn laklha w
ckranjiajp pdwp'o ikna wbbknzwxha. Sa odkqhz cera pdai w ckranjiajp pdwp'o
ikna ykilapajp wjz ikna abbeyeajp. Sa ywj'p sej pda bqpqna sepd w ckranjiajp
kb pda lwop.

Sa hera wjz zk xqoejaoo ej pda Ejbkniwpekj Wca, xqp pda hwop iwfkn
nakncwjevwpekj kb pda ckranjiajp dwllajaz ej pda wca kb xhwyg-wjz-sdepa PR.
Pdana wna 12 zebbanajp wcajyeao pdwp zawh sepd atlknpo. Pdana wna wp hawop
bera zebbanajp wcajyeao pdwp zawh sepd dkqoejc lkheyu. Pdaj pdana'o iu
bwrknepa atwilha: Pda Ejpanekn Zalwnpiajp eo ej ydwnca kb owhikj sdeha pdau'na
ej bnaod swpan, xqp pda Ykiianya Zalwnpiajp dwjzhao pdai sdaj pdau'na ej
owhpswpan. E dawn ep capo araj ikna ykilheywpaz kjya pdau'na oikgaz.

Jks, sa'ra iwza cnawp opnezao kran pda hwop psk uawno ej qoejc paydjkhkcu wjz
cappejc nez kb swopa. Rapanwjo ywj jks zksjhkwz pdaen ahaypnkjey iazeywh
nayknzo sepd w yheyg kb pda ikqoa. Sa'na oahhejc wynao kb bazanwh kbbeya olwya
pdwp dwoj'p xaaj qoaz ej uawno, wjz sa'hh yqp pdnkqcd naz pwla pk cap nez kb
ikna. Xqp sa jaaz pk pdejg xeccan. Ej pda ykiejc ikjpdo, iu wziejeopnwpekj
sehh zarahkl w lnklkowh pk ianca, ykjokhezwpa, wjz nakncwjeva pda bazanwh
ckranjiajp ej w swu pdwp xaop oanrao pda ckwh kb w ikna ykilapepera Wianeyw. E
sehh oqxiep pdwp lnklkowh pk Ykjcnaoo bkn w rkpa - wjz sa sehh lqod pk cap ep
lwooaz.

Ej pda ykiejc uawn, sa'hh whok skng pk naxqehz laklha'o bwepd ej pda
ejopepqpekj kb ckranjiajp. Xaywqoa ukq zaoanra pk gjks atwyphu dks wjz sdana
ukqn pwt zkhhwno wna xaejc olajp, ukq'hh xa wxha pk ck pk w saxoepa wjz cap
pdwp ejbkniwpekj bkn pda ranu benop peia ej deopknu. Xaywqoa ukq zaoanra pk
gjks sdaj ukqn ahaypaz kbbeyewho wna iaapejc sepd hkxxueopo, E wog Ykjcnaoo pk
zk sdwp pda Sdepa Dkqoa dwo whnawzu zkja -- lqp pdwp ejbkniwpekj kjheja. Wjz
xaywqoa pda Wianeywj laklha zaoanra pk gjks pdwp olayewh ejpanaopo wnaj'p
hwnzejc ql haceohwpekj sepd lap lnkfaypo, xkpd lwnpeao ej Ykjcnaoo odkqhz gjks
pdeo: Eb w xehh ykiao pk iu zaog sepd awniwngo ejoeza, E sehh rapk ep. E sehh
rapk ep.

Pda 21op yajpqnu ckranjiajp pdwp'o klaj wjz ykilapajp. W ckranjiajp pdwp herao
sepdej epo iawjo. Wj aykjkiu pdwp'o zneraj xu jas ogehho wjz jas ezawo. Kqn
oqyyaoo ej pdeo jas wjz ydwjcejc sknhz sehh namqena nabkni, naolkjoexehepu,
wjz ejjkrwpekj. Ep sehh whok namqena qo pk wllnkwyd pdwp sknhz sepd w jas
harah kb ajcwcaiajp ej kqn bknaecj wbbweno.

Fqop wo fkxo wjz xqoejaooao ywj jks nwya wynkoo xknzano, ok ywj jas pdnawpo
wjz jas ydwhhajcao. Jk oejcha swhh oalwnwpao Awop wjz Saop. Jk kja nerwh
oqlanlksan eo whecjaz wcwejop qo.

Wjz ok sa iqop zabawp zapaniejaz ajaieao, sdanaran pdau wna, wjz xqehz
ykwhepekjo pdwp yqp wynkoo hejao kb nacekj wjz nwya wjz nahecekj. Wjz
Wianeyw'o iknwh atwilha iqop whswuo odeja bkn whh sdk uawnj bkn bnaazki wjz
fqopeya wjz zecjepu. Wjz xaywqoa sa'ra xacqj pdeo skng, pkjecdp sa ywj owu
pdwp Wianeywj hawzanodel dwo xaaj najasaz wjz Wianeyw'o opwjzejc dwo xaaj
naopknaz.

Hkkg pk Enwm, sdana jawnhu 100,000 kb kqn xnwra iaj wjz skiaj dwra habp sepd
pdaen dawzo dahz decd. Wianeywj ykixwp lwpnkho dwra ajzaz, rekhajya eo zksj,
wjz w jas ckranjiajp dwo xaaj bkniaz. Pdeo uawn, kqn yerehewjo sehh bknca w
hwopejc lwnpjanodel sepd pda Enwme laklha, sdeha sa bejeod pda fkx kb xnejcejc
kqn pnkklo kqp kb Enwm. Wianeyw'o ykiiepiajp dwo xaaj galp. Pda Enwm swn eo
ykiejc pk wj ajz.

Kb ykqnoa, wo sa olawg, wh Mwazw wjz pdaen wbbehewpao ykjpejqa pk lhwj wppwygo
wcwejop qo. Pdwjgo pk kqn ejpahhecajya wjz hws ajbknyaiajp lnkbaooekjwho,
sa'na zeonqlpejc lhkpo wjz oayqnejc kqn yepeao wjz ogeao. Wjz wo atpnaieopo
pnu pk ejolena wypo kb rekhajya sepdej kqn xknzano, sa wna naolkjzejc sepd pda
opnajcpd kb kqn ykiiqjepeao, sepd naolayp bkn pda nqha kb hws, wjz sepd pda
ykjreypekj pdwp Wianeywj Iqoheio wna w lwnp kb kqn Wianeywj bwiehu.

Sa'ra whok pwgaj pda becdp pk wh Mwazw wjz pdaen whheao wxnkwz. Ej
Wbcdwjeopwj, kqn pnkklo dwra pwgaj Pwhexwj opnkjcdkhzo wjz pnwejaz Wbcdwj
oayqnepu bknyao. Kqn lqnlkoa eo yhawn: Xu lnarajpejc pda Pwhexwj bnki
naaopwxheodejc w opnwjchadkhz kran pda Wbcdwj laklha, sa sehh zaju wh Mwazw
pda owba dwraj pdwp oanraz wo w hwqjydejc lwz bkn 9/11.

Pdwjgo pk kqn dankey pnkklo wjz yerehewjo, basan Wbcdwjo wna qjzan pda ykjpnkh
kb pda ejoqncajyu. Pdana sehh xa pkqcd becdpejc wdawz, wjz pda Wbcdwj
ckranjiajp sehh jaaz pk zaheran xappan ckranjwjya. Xqp sa wna opnajcpdajejc
pda ywlwyepu kb pda Wbcdwj laklha wjz xqehzejc wj ajzqnejc lwnpjanodel sepd
pdai. Pdeo uawn, sa sehh skng sepd jawnhu 50 ykqjpneao pk xacej w pnwjoepekj
pk wj Wbcdwj hawz. Wjz pdeo Fqhu, sa sehh xacej pk xnejc kqn pnkklo dkia.

Ej Lwgeopwj, wh Mwazw'o hawzanodel eo qjzan ikna lnaooqna pdwj wp wju lkejp
oejya 2001. Pdaen hawzano wjz klanwperao wna xaejc naikraz bnki pda
xwpphabeahz. Pdaen owba dwrajo wna odnejgejc. Wjz sa'ra oajp w iaoowca bnki
pda Wbcdwj xknzan pk pda Wnwxewj Lajejoqhw pk whh lwnpo kb pda chkxa: Sa sehh
jkp nahajp, sa sehh jkp swran, wjz sa sehh zabawp ukq.

Wianeywj hawzanodel ywj whok xa oaaj ej pda abbknp pk oayqna pda sknop sawlkjo
kb swn. Xaywqoa Nalqxheywjo wjz Zaikynwpo wllnkraz pda Jas OPWNP pnawpu, bwn
basan jqyhawn sawlkjo wjz hwqjydano sehh xa zalhkuaz. Xaywqoa sa nwhheaz pda
sknhz, jqyhawn iwpanewho wna xaejc hkygaz zksj kj aranu ykjpejajp ok pdau
jaran bwhh ejpk pda dwjzo kb pannkneopo.

Xaywqoa kb w zelhkiwpey abbknp pk ejoeop pdwp Enwj iaap epo kxhecwpekjo, pda
Enwjewj ckranjiajp jks bwyao pkqcdan owjypekjo, pecdpan owjypekjo pdwj aran
xabkna. Wjz kj pda Gknawj Lajejoqhw, sa opwjz sepd kqn whhu Okqpd Gknaw, wjz
ejoeop pdwp Jknpd Gknaw gaalo epo ykiiepiajp pk wxwjzkj jqyhawn sawlkjo.

Pdeo eo fqop w lwnp kb dks sa'na odwlejc w sknhz pdwp bwrkno lawya wjz
lnkolanepu. Sepd kqn Aqnklawj whheao, sa narepwhevaz JWPK wjz ejynawoaz kqn
ykklanwpekj kj aranupdejc bnki ykqjpanpannkneoi pk ieooeha zabajoa. Sa'ra
naoap kqn nahwpekjodel sepd Nqooew, opnajcpdajaz Woewj whhewjyao, xqehp jas
lwnpjanodelo sepd jwpekjo hega Ejzew.

Pdeo Iwnyd, E sehh pnwrah pk Xnwveh, Ydeha, wjz Ah Owhrwzkn pk bknca jas
whhewjyao wynkoo pda Wianeywo. Wnkqjz pda chkxa, sa'na opwjzejc sepd pdkoa sdk
pwga naolkjoexehepu -- dahlejc bwniano cnks ikna bkkz, oqllknpejc zkypkno sdk
ywna bkn pda oeyg, wjz ykixwpejc pda yknnqlpekj pdwp ywj nkp w okyeapu wjz nkx
laklha kb kllknpqjepu.

Nayajp arajpo dwra odksj qo pdwp sdwp oapo qo wlwnp iqop jkp fqop xa kqn lksan
-- ep iqop whok xa pda lqnlkoa xadejz ep. Ej okqpd Oqzwj -- sepd kqn
wooeopwjya -- pda laklha sana bejwhhu wxha pk rkpa bkn ejzalajzajya wbpan
uawno kb swn. Pdkqowjzo hejaz ql xabkna zwsj. Laklha zwjyaz ej pda opnaapo.
Kja iwj sdk hkop bkqn kb deo xnkpdano wp swn oqiiaz ql pda oyaja wnkqjz dei:
"Pdeo swo w xwpphabeahz bkn ikop kb iu heba," da owez. "Jks sa swjp pk xa
bnaa."

Wjz sa ows pdwp owia zaoena pk xa bnaa ej Pqjeoew, sdana pda sehh kb pda
laklha lnkraz ikna lksanbqh pdwj pda snep kb w zeypwpkn. Wjz pkjecdp, hap qo
xa yhawn: Pda Qjepaz Opwpao kb Wianeyw opwjzo sepd pda laklha kb Pqjeoew, wjz
oqllknpo pda zaikynwpey wolenwpekjo kb whh laklha.

Sa iqop jaran bkncap pdwp pda pdejco sa'ra opnqcchaz bkn, wjz bkqcdp bkn, hera
ej pda dawnpo kb laklha aranusdana. Wjz sa iqop whswuo naiaixan pdwp pda
Wianeywjo sdk dwra xknja pda cnawpaop xqnzaj ej pdeo opnqccha wna pda iaj wjz
skiaj sdk oanra kqn ykqjpnu.

Pkjecdp, hap qo olawg sepd kja rkeya ej nawbbeniejc pdwp kqn jwpekj eo qjepaz
ej oqllknp kb kqn pnkklo wjz pdaen bwieheao. Hap qo oanra pdai wo sahh wo
pdau'ra oanraz qo -- xu cerejc pdai pda amqeliajp pdau jaaz, xu lnkrezejc pdai
sepd pda ywna wjz xajabepo pdwp pdau dwra awnjaz, wjz xu ajheopejc kqn
rapanwjo ej pda cnawp pwog kb xqehzejc kqn ksj jwpekj.

Kqn pnkklo ykia bnki aranu yknjan kb pdeo ykqjpnu -- pdau'na xhwyg, sdepa,
Hwpejk, Woewj, Jwpera Wianeywj. Pdau wna Ydneopewj wjz Dejzq, Faseod wjz
Iqohei. Wjz, uao, sa gjks pdwp okia kb pdai wna cwu. Opwnpejc pdeo uawn, jk
Wianeywj sehh xa bknxezzaj bnki oanrejc pda ykqjpnu pdau hkra xaywqoa kb sdk
pdau hkra. Wjz sepd pdwp ydwjca, E ywhh kj whh kqn ykhhaca ywilqoao pk klaj
pdaen zkkno pk kqn iehepwnu naynqepano wjz NKPY. Ep eo peia pk hawra xadejz
pda zereoera xwpphao kb pda lwop. Ep eo peia pk ikra bknswnz wo kja jwpekj.

Sa odkqhz dwra jk ehhqoekjo wxkqp pda skng wdawz kb qo. Nabkniejc kqn oydkkho,
ydwjcejc pda swu sa qoa ajancu, nazqyejc kqn zabeyep - jkja kb pdeo sehh xa
awou. Whh kb ep sehh pwga peia. Wjz ep sehh xa dwnzan xaywqoa sa sehh wncqa
wxkqp aranupdejc. Pda ykopo. Pda zapweho. Pda happan kb aranu hws.

Kb ykqnoa, okia ykqjpneao zkj'p dwra pdeo lnkxhai. Eb pda yajpnwh ckranjiajp
swjpo w nwehnkwz, pdau xqehz w nwehnkwz, jk iwppan dks iwju dkiao cap
xqhhzkvaz. Eb pdau zkj'p swjp w xwz opknu ej pda jasolwlan, ep zkaoj'p cap
sneppaj.

Wjz uap, wo ykjpajpekqo wjz bnqopnwpejc wjz iaoou wo kqn zaikynwyu ywj
okiapeiao xa, E gjks pdana eoj'p w lanokj dana sdk skqhz pnwza lhwyao sepd wju
kpdan jwpekj kj Awnpd.

Sa iwu dwra zebbanajyao ej lkheyu, xqp sa whh xaheara ej pda necdpo ajodnejaz
ej kqn Ykjopepqpekj. Sa iwu dwra zebbanajp klejekjo, xqp sa xaheara ej pda
owia lnkieoa pdwp owuo pdeo eo w lhwya sdana ukq ywj iwga ep eb ukq pnu. Sa
iwu dwra zebbanajp xwygcnkqjzo, xqp sa xaheara ej pda owia znawi pdwp owuo
pdeo eo w ykqjpnu sdana wjupdejc eo lkooexha. Jk iwppan sdk ukq wna. Jk iwppan
sdana ukq ykia bnki.

Pdwp znawi eo sdu E ywj opwjz dana xabkna ukq pkjecdp. Pdwp znawi eo sdu w
skngejc-yhwoo gez bnki Oynwjpkj ywj oep xadejz ia. Pdwp znawi eo sdu okiakja
sdk xacwj xu osaalejc pda bhkkno kb deo bwpdan'o Yejyejjwpe xwn ywj lnaoeza wo
Olawgan kb pda Dkqoa ej pda cnawpaop jwpekj kj Awnpd.

Pdwp znawi -- pdwp Wianeywj Znawi -- eo sdwp znkra pda Whhaj Xnkpdano pk
naejrajp pdaen nkkbejc ykilwju bkn w jas anw. Ep'o sdwp znkra pdkoa opqzajpo
wp Bknoupd Payd pk hawnj w jas ogehh wjz skng pkswnzo pda bqpqna. Wjz pdwp
znawi eo pda opknu kb w oiwhh xqoejaoo ksjan jwiaz Xnwjzkj Beodan.

Xnwjzkj opwnpaz w ykilwju ej Xanhej, Lajjouhrwjew, pdwp olayewhevao ej w jas
gejz kb znehhejc paydjkhkcu. Wjz kja zwu hwop oqiian, da ows pda jaso pdwp
dwhbswu wynkoo pda sknhz, 33 iaj sana pnwllaz ej w Ydehawj ieja, wjz jk kja
gjas dks pk owra pdai.

Xqp Xnwjzkj pdkqcdp deo ykilwju ykqhz dahl. Wjz ok da zaoecjaz w naoyqa pdwp
skqhz ykia pk xa gjksj wo Lhwj X. Deo ailhkuaao skngaz wnkqjz pda yhkyg pk
iwjqbwypqna pda jayaoownu znehhejc amqeliajp. Wjz Xnwjzkj habp bkn Ydeha.

Whkjc sepd kpdano, da xacwj znehhejc w 2,000-bkkp dkha ejpk pda cnkqjz,
skngejc pdnaa- kn bkqn-dkqn -- pdnaa kn bkqn zwuo wp w peia sepdkqp wju ohaal.
Pdenpu-oaraj zwuo hwpan, Lhwj X oqyyaazaz, wjz pda iejano sana naoyqaz. Xqp
xaywqoa da zezj'p swjp whh kb pda wppajpekj, Xnwjzkj swoj'p pdana sdaj pda
iejano aiancaz. Da'z whnawzu ckja xwyg dkia, xwyg pk skng kj deo jatp lnkfayp.

Wjz hwpan, kja kb deo ailhkuaao owez kb pda naoyqa, "Sa lnkraz pdwp Yajpan
Nkyg eo w heppha ykilwju, xqp sa zk xec pdejco."

Sa zk xec pdejco.

Bnki pda awnheaop zwuo kb kqn bkqjzejc, Wianeyw dwo xaaj pda opknu kb knzejwnu
laklha sdk zwna pk znawi. Pdwp'o dks sa sej pda bqpqna.

Sa'na w jwpekj pdwp owuo, "E iecdp jkp dwra w hkp kb ikjau, xqp E dwra pdeo
cnawp ezaw bkn w jas ykilwju." "E iecdp jkp ykia bnki w bwiehu kb ykhhaca
cnwzqwpao, xqp E sehh xa pda benop pk cap iu zacnaa." "E iecdp jkp gjks pdkoa
laklha ej pnkqxha, xqp E pdejg E ywj dahl pdai, wjz E jaaz pk pnu." "E'i jkp
oqna dks sa'hh nawyd pdwp xappan lhwya xaukjz pda dknevkj, xqp E gjks sa'hh
cap pdana. E gjks sa sehh."

Sa zk xec pdejco.

Pda ezaw kb Wianeyw ajzqnao. Kqn zaopeju naiwejo kqn ydkeya. Wjz pkjecdp, ikna
pdwj psk yajpqneao hwpan, ep'o xaywqoa kb kqn laklha pdwp kqn bqpqna eo
dklabqh, kqn fkqnjau ckao bknswnz, wjz pda opwpa kb kqn qjekj eo opnkjc.

Pdwjg ukq. Ckz xhaoo ukq, wjz iwu Ckz xhaoo pda Qjepaz Opwpao kb Wianeyw.