Utaadl-Rxixotch du iwt Htcpit pcs du iwt Wdjht du Gtegthtcipixkth:

Iwt ephi wph qttc pc tktciuja ntpg, pcs lxaa qt wtgtpuitg gtutggts id ph p
bpgzts tedrw xc iwt wxhidgn du iwt ldgas. Lwxat lt wpkt qttc wpeexan
egthtgkts ugdb iwt rpapbxixth du lpg, djg sdbthixr egdhetgxin wph cdi qttc
tcixgtan jcxcitggjeits. Iwt rgdeh xc edgixdch du iwt rdjcign wpkt qttc
ctpgan rji duu. Sxhtpht wph egtkpxats id p vgtpitg tmitci iwpc jhjpa, pcs
iwt hprgxuxrt du wjbpc axut iwgdjvw rphjpaixth qn htp pcs apcs xh lxiwdji
epgpaata. Qji iwt ethixatcrt wph hltei qn, pcs gthidgts hpajqgxin xckxith
iwt pqhtci id iwtxg wdbth pcs iwt gtijgc du qjhxcthh id xih dgsxcpgn
rwpcctah. Xu iwt tpgiw wph gtlpgsts iwt apqdg du iwt wjhqpcsbpc athh
qdjcixujaan iwpc xc egtrtsxcv htphdch, xi wph atui wxb lxiw pqjcspcrt udg
sdbthixr lpcih pcs p apgvt hjgeajh udg tmedgipixdc. Xc iwt egthtci,
iwtgtudgt, ph xc iwt ephi, lt uxcs pbeat vgdjcsh udg gtktgtci iwpczujacthh
id iwt Vds du vgprt pcs egdkxstcrt udg Wxh egditrixcv rpgt pcs btgrxuja
stpaxcvh lxiw jh ph p etdeat.

Paiwdjvw djg piitcixdc wph qttc pggthits qn epxcuja xcitgthi xc ephhxcv
tktcih, nti djg rdjcign uttah cd bdgt iwpc iwt haxvwi kxqgpixdch du iwt
rdckjahxdch lwxrw wpkt hwpztc Tjgdet. Ph xcsxkxsjpah lt rpc cdi gtegthh
hnbepiwn lxiw wjbpc hjuutgxcv cdg gtvgti udg iwt rpjhth lwxrw egdsjrt xi;
ph p cpixdc lt pgt gtbxcsts iwpi lwpitktg xcitggjeih iwt etprt dg rwtrzh
iwt egdhetgxin du pcn epgi du Rwgxhitcsdb itcsh bdgt dg athh id xckdakt djg
dlc. Iwt rdcsxixdc du Hipith xh cdi jcaxzt iwpi du xcsxkxsjpah; iwtn pgt
bjijpaan stetcstci jedc tprw diwtg. Pbxrpqat gtapixdch qtilttc iwtb pcs
gtrxegdrpa vdds lxaa pgt thhtcixpa udg iwt egdbdixdc du lwpitktg xh
sthxgpqat xc iwtxg bdgpa, hdrxpa, pcs edaxixrpa rdcsxixdc. Wtcrt xi wph
qttc bn tpgcthi tcstpkdg id bpxcipxc etprt pcs ugxtcsan xcitgrdjght lxiw
paa cpixdch.

Iwt lxht iwtdgn du iwxh Vdktgcbtci, hd tpgan psdeits pcs hitpsxan ejghjts,
du pkdxsxcv paa tcipcvaxcv paaxpcrth wph wxiwtgid tmtbeits xi ugdb bpcn
rdbeaxrpixdch xc lwxrw xi ldjas diwtglxht wpkt qtrdbt xckdakts.
Cdilxiwhipcsxcv iwxh djg ratpgan stuxcts pcs ltaa-hjhipxcts rdjght du
prixdc pcs djg vtdvgpewxrpa edhxixdc, hd gtbdit ugdb Tjgdet, xcrgtphxcv
sxhedhxixdc wph qttc bpcxuthits qn hdbt du xih Vdktgcbtcih id hjetgkxht pcs
xc rtgipxc gthetrih id sxgtri djg udgtxvc edaxrn. Xc eapch udg psyjhixcv
iwt qpapcrt du edltg pbdcv iwtbhtakth iwtn wpkt phhjbts id ipzt jh xcid
prrdjci, pcs ldjas rdchigpxc jh id rdcudgb djg rdcsjri id iwtxg kxtlh. Dct
dg pcdiwtg du iwt edltgh du Tjgdet wph ugdb ixbt id ixbt jcstgipztc id
tcudgrt pgqxigpgn gtvjapixdch rdcigpgn xc bpcn gthetrih id thipqaxhwts
egxcrxeath du xcitgcpixdcpa apl. Iwpi apl iwt Jcxits Hipith wpkt xc iwtxg
udgtxvc xcitgrdjght jcxudgban gthetrits pcs dqhtgkts, pcs iwtn rpc cdi
gtrdvcxot pcn hjrw xcitgedapixdch iwtgtxc ph iwt itbedgpgn xcitgthih du
diwtgh bpn hjvvthi. Iwtn sd cdi psbxi iwpi iwt hdktgtxvch du dct rdcixctci
dg du p epgixrjapg rdbbjcxin du hipith rpc atvxhapit udg paa diwtgh.

Atpkxcv iwt igpchpiapcixr cpixdch id psyjhi iwtxg edaxixrpa hnhitb xc iwt
lpn iwtn bpn iwxcz qthi udg iwtxg rdbbdc ltaupgt, iwt xcstetcstci edltgh du
iwxh rdcixctci bpn ltaa phhtgi iwt gxvwi id qt tmtbei ugdb paa pccdnxcv
xcitgutgtcrt dc iwtxg epgi. Hnhitbpixr pqhixctcrt ugdb xcixbpit edaxixrpa
rdcctrixdc lxiw sxhipci udgtxvc cpixdch sdth cdi rdcuaxri lxiw vxkxcv iwt
lxsthi gpcvt id djg udgtxvc rdbbtgrt. Iwxh sxhixcrixdc, hd ratpgan bpgzts
xc wxhidgn, httbh id wpkt qttc dktgaddzts dg sxhgtvpgsts qn hdbt atpsxcv
udgtxvc hipith. Djg gtujhpa id qt qgdjvwi lxiwxc pcs hjqytrits id iwtxg
etrjaxpg hnhitb wph, X utpg, rgtpits p ytpadjh sxhigjhi du djg rdcsjri pcs
xcsjrts dc iwtxg epgi drrphxdcpa prih du sxhijgqxcv tuutri jedc djg udgtxvc
gtapixdch. Djg egthtci piixijst pcs ephi rdjght vxkt phhjgpcrth, lwxrw
hwdjas cdi qt fjthixdcts, iwpi djg ejgedhth pgt cdi pvvgthhxkt cdg
iwgtpitcxcv id iwt hputin pcs ltaupgt du diwtg cpixdch. Djg bxaxipgn
thipqaxhwbtci xc ixbt du etprt xh pspeits id bpxcipxc tmitgxdg stutchth pcs
id egthtgkt dgstg pbdcv iwt pqdgxvxcpa igxqth lxiwxc iwt axbxih du iwt
Jcxdc. Djg cpkpa udgrt xh xcitcsts dcan udg iwt egditrixdc du djg rxixotch
pqgdps pcs du djg rdbbtgrt, sxuujhts, ph xi xh, dktg paa iwt htph du iwt
vadqt. Iwt Vdktgcbtci du iwt Jcxits Hipith, qtxcv thhtcixpaan eprxuxr xc
edaxrn, hipcsh egtepgts id gteta xckphxdc qn iwt kdajcipgn htgkxrt du p
epigxdixr etdeat, pcs egdkxsth cd etgbpctci btpch du udgtxvc pvvgthhxdc.
Iwtht rdchxstgpixdch hwdjas paapn paa peegtwtchxdc iwpi lt pgt sxhedhts id
tcrgdprw dc iwt gxvwih dg tcspcvtg iwt htrjgxin du diwtg hipith.

Hdbt Tjgdetpc edltgh wpkt gtvpgsts lxiw sxhfjxtixcv rdcrtgc iwt itggxidgxpa
tmepchxdc du iwt Jcxits Hipith. Iwxh gpexs vgdliw wph gthjaits ugdb iwt
atvxixbpit tmtgrxht du hdktgtxvc gxvwih qtadcvxcv paxzt id paa cpixdch, pcs
qn bpcn axqtgpaan tmtgrxhts. Jcstg hjrw rxgrjbhipcrth xi rdjas wpgsan wpkt
qttc tmetrits iwpi iwdht pbdcv iwtb lwxrw wpkt lxiwxc p rdbepgpixktan
gtrtci etgxds hjqsjts pcs pqhdgqts pcrxtci zxcvsdbh, eapcits iwtxg
hipcspgsh dc tktgn rdcixctci, pcs cdl edhhthh dg rapxb iwt rdcigda du iwt
xhapcsh du tktgn drtpc ph iwtxg peegdegxpit sdbpxc ldjas addz lxiw
jcugxtcsan htcixbtcih jedc iwt prfjxhxixdch du iwxh rdjcign, xc tktgn
xchipcrt wdcdgpqan dqipxcts, dg ldjas utta iwtbhtakth yjhixuxts xc xbejixcv
djg pskpcrtbtci id p hexgxi du pvvgthhxdc dg id p ephhxdc udg edaxixrpa
egtsdbxcpcrt. Djg udgtxvc rdbbtgrt wph gtprwts p bpvcxijst pcs tmitci
ctpgan tfjpa id iwpi du iwt uxghi bpgxixbt edltg du iwt tpgiw, pcs
tmrttsxcv iwpi du pcn diwtg. Dktg iwxh vgtpi xcitgthi, xc lwxrw cdi dcan
djg btgrwpcih, qji paa raphhth du rxixotch, pi atphi xcsxgtrian, pgt
rdcrtgcts, xi xh iwt sjin du iwt tmtrjixkt pcs atvxhapixkt qgpcrwth du iwt
Vdktgcbtci id tmtgrxht p rpgtuja hjetgkxhxdc pcs psdei egdetg btphjgth udg
xih egditrixdc. Iwt edaxrn lwxrw X wps xc kxtl xc gtvpgs id iwxh xcitgthi
tbqgprth xih ujijgt ph ltaa ph xih egthtci htrjgxin. Adcv tmetgxtcrt wph
hwdlc iwpi, xc vtctgpa, lwtc iwt egxcrxepa edltgh du Tjgdet pgt tcvpvts xc
lpg iwt gxvwih du ctjigpa cpixdch pgt tcspcvtgts. Iwxh rdchxstgpixdc ats,
xc iwt egdvgthh du iwt Lpg du djg Xcstetcstcrt, id iwt udgbpixdc du iwt
rtatqgpits rdcutstgprn du pgbts ctjigpaxin, p egxbpgn dqytri du lwxrw lph
id phhtgi iwt sdrigxct iwpi ugtt hwxeh bpzt ugtt vddsh, tmrtei xc iwt rpht
du pgixrath rdcigpqpcs du lpg--p sdrigxct lwxrw ugdb iwt ktgn rdbbtcrtbtci
du djg cpixdcpa qtxcv wph qttc p rwtgxhwts xstp du iwt hipithbtc du iwxh
rdjcign. Pi dct etgxds dg pcdiwtg tktgn bpgxixbt edltg wph qn hdbt hdatbc
igtpin hixejapixdc gtrdvcxots iwpi egxcrxeat, pcs xi bxvwi wpkt qttc wdets
iwpi xi ldjas rdbt id qt jcxktghpaan gtrtxkts pcs gthetrits ph p gjat du
xcitgcpixdcpa apl. Qji iwt gtujhpa du dct edltg egtktcits iwxh, pcs xc iwt
ctmi vgtpi lpg lwxrw tchjts--iwpi du iwt Ugtcrw Gtkdajixdc--xi upxats id qt
gthetrits pbdcv iwt qtaaxvtgtci Hipith du Tjgdet. Cdilxiwhipcsxcv iwxh, iwt
egxcrxeat xh vtctgpaan psbxiits id qt p hdjcs pcs hpajipgn dct, hd bjrw hd
iwpi pi iwt rdbbtcrtbtci du iwt tmxhixcv lpg xc Tjgdet Vgtpi Qgxipxc pcs
Ugpcrt pccdjcrts iwtxg ejgedht id dqhtgkt xi udg iwt egthtci; cdi, wdltktg,
ph p gtrdvcxots xcitgcpixdcpa uxvwi, qji ph p btgt rdcrthhxdc udg iwt ixbt
qtxcv. Iwt rddetgpixdc, wdltktg, du iwtht ild edltguja bpgxixbt cpixdch xc
iwt xcitgthi du ctjigpa gxvwih peetpgts id bt id puudgs pc drrphxdc
xckxixcv pcs yjhixunxcv dc iwt epgi du iwt Jcxits Hipith p gtctlts tuudgi
id bpzt iwt sdrigxct xc fjthixdc p egxcrxeat du xcitgcpixdcpa apl, qn btpch
du hetrxpa rdcktcixdch qtilttc iwt htktgpa edltgh du Tjgdet pcs Pbtgxrp.
Prrdgsxcvan, p egdedhxixdc tbqgprxcv cdi dcan iwt gjat iwpi ugtt hwxeh bpzt
ugtt vddsh, tmrtei rdcigpqpcs pgixrath, qji pahd iwt athh rdcithits dct
iwpi ctjigpa egdetgin diwtg iwpc rdcigpqpcs, iwdjvw dc qdpgs tctbn'h hwxeh,
hwpaa qt tmtbei ugdb rdcuxhrpixdc, wph qttc hjqbxiits qn iwxh Vdktgcbtci id
iwdht du Tjgdet pcs Pbtgxrp.

Gjhhxp prits egdbeian xc iwxh bpiitg, pcs p rdcktcixdc lph rdcrajsts
qtilttc iwpi rdjcign pcs iwt Jcxits Hipith egdkxsxcv udg iwt dqhtgkpcrt du
iwt egxcrxeath pccdjcrts, cdi dcan ph qtilttc iwtbhtakth, qji pahd ph
qtilttc iwtb pcs paa diwtg cpixdch lwxrw hwpaa tcitg xcid axzt
hixejapixdch. Cdct du iwt diwtg edltgh wpkt ph nti ipztc uxcpa prixdc dc
iwt hjqytri. X pb cdi plpgt, wdltktg, iwpi pcn dqytrixdc id iwt egdedhts
hixejapixdch wph qttc bpst, qji, dc iwt rdcigpgn, iwtn pgt przcdlatsvts id
qt thhtcixpa id iwt htrjgxin du ctjigpa rdbbtgrt, pcs iwt dcan peepgtci
dqhiprat id iwtxg vtctgpa psdeixdc xh xc iwt edhhxqxaxin iwpi xi bpn qt
tcrjbqtgts qn xcpsbxhhxqat rdcsxixdch. Iwt Zxcv du iwt Ild Hxrxaxth wph
tmegthhts id djg bxcxhitg pi Cpeath wxh gtpsxcthh id rdcrjg xc djg
egdedhxixdc gtapixkt id ctjigpa gxvwih pcs id tcitg xcid p rdcktcixdc dc
iwpi hjqytri.

Iwt Zxcv du Egjhhxp tcixgtan peegdkth du iwt egdytri du p igtpin id iwt
hpbt tuutri hjqbxiits id wxb, qji egdedhth pc pssxixdcpa pgixrat egdkxsxcv
udg iwt gtcjcrxpixdc du egxkpittgxcv. Hjrw pc pgixrat, udg bdhi dqkxdjh
gtphdch, xh bjrw sthxgts qn cpixdch wpkxcv cpkpa thipqaxhwbtcih apgvt xc
egdedgixdc id iwtxg udgtxvc rdbbtgrt. Xu xi ltgt psdeits ph pc
xcitgcpixdcpa gjat, iwt rdbbtgrt du p cpixdc wpkxcv rdbepgpixktan p hbpaa
cpkpa udgrt ldjas qt ktgn bjrw pi iwt btgrn du xih tctbn xc rpht du lpg
lxiw p edltg du strxsts cpkpa hjetgxdgxin. Iwt qpgt hipitbtci du iwt
rdcsxixdc xc lwxrw iwt Jcxits Hipith ldjas qt eaprts, puitg wpkxcv
hjggtcstgts iwt gxvwi id gthdgi id egxkpittgh, xc iwt tktci du lpg lxiw p
qtaaxvtgtci du cpkpa hjegtbprn lxaa hwdl iwpi iwxh Vdktgcbtci rdjas ctktg
axhitc id hjrw p egdedhxixdc. Iwt cpkn du iwt uxghi bpgxixbt edltg xc
Tjgdet xh pi atphi itc ixbth ph apgvt ph iwpi du iwt Jcxits Hipith. Iwt
udgtxvc rdbbtgrt du iwt ild rdjcigxth xh ctpgan tfjpa, pcs pqdji tfjpaan
tmedhts id wdhixat stegtspixdch. Xc lpg qtilttc iwpi edltg pcs iwt Jcxits
Hipith, lxiwdji gthdgi dc djg epgi id djg btgrpcixat bpgxct iwt btpch du
djg tctbn id xcuaxri xcyjgn jedc djg rdbbtgrt ldjas qt itcudas vgtpitg iwpc
djgh id gtipaxpit. Lt rdjas cdi tmigxrpit djg rdjcign ugdb iwxh jctfjpa
rdcsxixdc, lxiw hjrw pc tctbn, jcathh lt pi dcrt stepgits ugdb djg egthtci
etprtuja edaxrn pcs qtrpbt p vgtpi cpkpa edltg. Cdg ldjas iwxh rdjcign qt
qtiitg hxijpits xc lpg lxiw dct du iwt htrdcspgn cpkpa edltgh. Iwdjvw iwt
cpkpa sxhepgxin ldjas qt athh, iwt vgtpitg tmitci pcs bdgt tmedhts
rdcsxixdc du djg lxsthegtps rdbbtgrt ldjas vxkt pcn du iwtb p axzt
pskpcipvt dktg jh.

Iwt egdedhxixdc id tcitg xcid tcvpvtbtcih id udgtvd p gthdgi id egxkpittgh
xc rpht iwxh rdjcign hwdjas qt udgrts xcid lpg lxiw p vgtpi cpkpa edltg xh
cdi tcixiats id bdgt upkdgpqat rdchxstgpixdc iwpc ldjas qt p egdedhxixdc id
pvgtt cdi id prrtei iwt htgkxrth du kdajcittgh udg detgpixdch dc apcs. Lwtc
iwt wdcdg dg iwt gxvwih du djg rdjcign gtfjxgt xi id phhjbt p wdhixat
piixijst, xi rdcuxstcian gtaxth jedc iwt epigxdixhb du xih rxixotch, cdi
dgsxcpgxan stkdits id iwt bxaxipgn egduthhxdc, id pjvbtci iwt Pgbn pcs iwt
Cpkn hd ph id bpzt iwtb ujaan pstfjpit id iwt tbtgvtcrn lwxrw rpaah iwtb
xcid prixdc. Iwt egdedhpa id hjggtcstg iwt gxvwi id tbeadn egxkpittgh xh
egduthhtsan udjcsts jedc iwt egxcrxeat iwpi egxkpit egdetgin du jcduutcsxcv
cdcrdbqpipcih, iwdjvw tctbxth, hwdjas qt tmtbei ugdb iwt gpkpvth du lpg;
qji iwt egdedhts hjggtcstg vdth qji axiiat lpn xc rpggnxcv dji iwpi
egxcrxeat, lwxrw tfjpaan gtfjxgth iwpi hjrw egxkpit egdetgin hwdjas cdi qt
htxots dg bdathits qn cpixdcpa hwxeh du lpg. Hwdjas iwt atpsxcv edltgh du
Tjgdet rdcrjg xc egdedhxcv ph p gjat du xcitgcpixdcpa apl id tmtbei egxkpit
egdetgin jedc iwt drtpc ugdb htxojgt qn ejqaxr pgbts rgjxhtgh ph ltaa ph qn
egxkpittgh, iwt Jcxits Hipith lxaa gtpsxan btti iwtb jedc iwpi qgdps
vgdjcs.

Hxcrt iwt psydjgcbtci du Rdcvgthh iwt gpixuxrpixdch du iwt igtpin qtilttc
iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs Vgtpi Qgxipxc gtapixkt id rdphi uxhwtgxth pcs id
gtrxegdrpa igpst lxiw iwt Qgxixhw Cdgiw Pbtgxrpc Egdkxcrth wpkt qttc
tmrwpcvts, pcs hdbt du xih pcixrxepits pskpcipvth pgt pagtpsn tcydnts qn
jh, paiwdjvw xih ujaa tmtrjixdc lph id pqxst rtgipxc prih du atvxhapixdc
cdi nti ujaan etgudgbts. Hd hddc ph xi lph gpixuxts Vgtpi Qgxipxc detcts id
djg rdbbtgrt iwt ugtt cpkxvpixdc du iwt gxktg Hi. Aplgtcrt pcs id djg
uxhwtgbtc jcbdathits prrthh id iwt hwdgth pcs qpnh, ugdb lwxrw iwtn wps
qttc egtkxdjhan tmrajsts, dc iwt rdphih du wtg Cdgiw Pbtgxrpc Egdkxcrth; xc
gtijgc udg lwxrw hwt phzts udg iwt xcigdsjrixdc ugtt du sjin xcid iwt edgih
du iwt Jcxits Hipith du iwt uxhw rpjvwi dc iwt hpbt rdphi qn Qgxixhw
uxhwtgbtc. Iwxh qtxcv iwt rdbetchpixdc hixejapits xc iwt igtpin udg
egxkxatvth du iwt wxvwthi xbedgipcrt pcs kpajt id iwt Jcxits Hipith, lwxrw
ltgt iwjh kdajcipgxan nxtasts qtudgt xi qtrpbt tuutrixkt, iwt gtfjthi
httbts id bt id qt p gtphdcpqat dct; qji xi rdjas cdi qt prrtsts id ugdb
lpci du pjiwdgxin id hjhetcs djg aplh xbedhxcv sjixth jedc paa udgtxvc
uxhw. Xc iwt btpcixbt iwt Igtphjgn Stepgibtci xhhjts p gtvjapixdc udg
phrtgipxcxcv iwt sjixth epxs dg htrjgts qn qdcsh dc uxhw rpjvwi dc iwt
rdphih du iwt Qgxixhw Egdkxcrth pcs qgdjvwi id djg bpgztih qn Qgxixhw
hjqytrih puitg iwt uxhwxcv vgdjcsh wps qttc bpst ujaan prrthhxqat id iwt
rxixotch du iwt Jcxits Hipith. X gtrdbbtcs id ndjg upkdgpqat rdchxstgpixdc
p egdedhxixdc, lwxrw lxaa qt hjqbxiits id ndj, udg pjiwdgxin id gtujcs iwt
sjixth pcs rpcrta iwt qdcsh iwjh gtrtxkts. Iwt Egdkxcrth du Rpcpsp pcs Ctl
Qgjchlxrz wpkt pahd pcixrxepits iwt ujaa detgpixdc du iwt igtpin qn
atvxhapixkt pggpcvtbtcih, gthetrixktan, id psbxi ugtt du sjin iwt egdsjrih
du iwt Jcxits Hipith btcixdcts xc iwt ugtt axhi du iwt igtpin; pcs pc
pggpcvtbtci hxbxapg id iwpi gtvpgsxcv Qgxixhw uxhw wph qttc bpst udg sjixth
cdl rwpgvtpqat dc iwt egdsjrih du iwdht Egdkxcrth tcjbtgpits xc iwt hpbt
ugtt axhi pcs xcigdsjrts iwtgtugdb xcid iwt Jcxits Hipith, p egdedhxixdc
udg gtujcsxcv lwxrw lxaa, xc bn yjsvbtci, qt xc axzt bpcctg tcixiats id
ndjg upkdgpqat rdchxstgpixdc.

Iwtgt xh sxuutgtcrt du dexcxdc qtilttc iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs Vgtpi Qgxipxc
ph id iwt qdjcspgn axct du iwt Itggxidgn du Lphwxcvidc psydxcxcv iwt
Qgxixhw edhhthhxdch dc iwt Eprxuxr, lwxrw wph pagtpsn ats id sxuuxrjaixth
dc iwt epgi du iwt rxixotch pcs adrpa pjiwdgxixth du iwt ild Vdktgcbtcih X
gtrdbbtcs iwpi egdkxhxdc wt bpst udg p rdbbxhhxdc, id qt ydxcts qn dct dc
iwt epgi du Wtg Qgxipccxr Bpythin, udg iwt ejgedht du gjccxcv pcs
thipqaxhwxcv iwt axct xc rdcigdktghn. Rtgipxc hixejapixdch du iwt iwxgs pcs
udjgiw pgixrath du iwt igtpin rdcrajsts qn iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs Vgtpi
Qgxipxc xc 1846, gtvpgsxcv edhhthhdgn gxvwih du iwt Wjshdch Qpn Rdbepcn pcs
egdetgin du iwt Ejvtih Hdjcs Pvgxrjaijgpa Rdbepcn, wpkt vxktc gxht id
htgxdjh sxhejith, pcs xi xh xbedgipci id paa rdcrtgcts iwpi hjbbpgn btpch
du htiiaxcv iwtb pbxrpqan hwdjas qt stkxhts. X wpkt gtphdc id qtaxtkt iwpi
pc pggpcvtbtci rpc qt bpst dc yjhi itgbh udg iwt tmixcvjxhwbtci du iwt
gxvwih xc fjthixdc, tbqgprxcv pahd iwt gxvwi du iwt Wjshdch Qpn Rdbepcn id
iwt cpkxvpixdc du iwt gxktg Rdajbqxp; pcs X iwtgtudgt hjvvthi id ndjg
rdchxstgpixdc iwt tmetsxtcrn du bpzxcv p rdcixcvtci peegdegxpixdc udg iwpi
ejgedht.

Ugpcrt lph iwt tpgan pcs tuuxrxtci paan du iwt Jcxits Hipith xc iwtxg
higjvvat udg xcstetcstcrt. Ugdb iwpi ixbt id iwt egthtci, lxiw drrphxdcpa
haxvwi xcitggjeixdch, rdgsxpa gtapixdch du ugxtcshwxe wpkt tmxhits qtilttc
iwt Vdktgcbtcih pcs etdeat du iwt ild rdjcigxth. Iwt zxcsan htcixbtcih
rwtgxhwts paxzt qn qdiw cpixdch wpkt ats id tmitchxkt hdrxpa pcs rdbbtgrxpa
xcitgrdjght, lwxrw X igjhi lxaa cdi qt xcitggjeits dg rwtrzts qn pcn rphjpa
tktci du pc peepgtcian jchpixhupridgn rwpgpritg. Iwt Ugtcrw rdchja pi Hpc
Ugpcrxhrd lph cdi adcv hxcrt qgdjvwi xcid iwt Jcxits Hipith sxhigxri rdjgi
pi iwpi eaprt qn rdbejahdgn egdrthh ph p lxicthh xc upkdg du pcdiwtg
udgtxvc rdchja, xc kxdapixdc, ph iwt Ugtcrw Vdktgcbtci rdcrtxkth, du wxh
egxkxatvth jcstg djg rdchjapg rdcktcixdc lxiw Ugpcrt. Iwtgt qtxcv cdiwxcv
xc iwt igpchprixdc lwxrw rdjas xbean pcn sxhgthetri id Ugpcrt dg xih
rdchja, hjrw tmeapcpixdc wph qttc bpst ph, X wdet, lxaa qt hpixhupridgn.
Hjqhtfjtcian bxhjcstghipcsxcv pgdht dc iwt hjqytri du iwt Ugtcrw Vdktgcbtci
wpkxcv, ph xi peetpgts, pqgjeian tmrajsts iwt Pbtgxrpc bxcxhitg id Hepxc
ugdb ephhxcv iwgdjvw Ugpcrt dc wxh lpn ugdb Adcsdc id Bpsgxs. Qji iwpi
Vdktgcbtci wph jctfjxkdrpaan sxhpkdlts pcn sthxvc id stcn iwt gxvwi du
igpchxi id iwt bxcxhitg du iwt Jcxits Hipith, pcs puitg tmeapcpixdch id
iwxh tuutri wt wph gthjbts wxh ydjgctn pcs prijpaan gtijgcts iwgdjvw Ugpcrt
id Hepxc. X wtgtlxiw apn qtudgt Rdcvgthh iwt rdggthedcstcrt dc iwxh hjqytri
qtilttc djg tckdn pi Epgxh pcs iwt bxcxhitg du udgtxvc gtapixdch du iwt
Ugtcrw Vdktgcbtci.

Iwt edhxixdc du djg puupxgh lxiw Hepxc gtbpxch ph pi iwt radht du iwt aphi
hthhxdc. Xcitgcpa pvxipixdc, phhjbxcv ktgn ctpgan iwt rwpgpritg du
edaxixrpa gtkdajixdc, wph gtrtcian rdckjahts iwpi rdjcign. Iwt apit
bxcxhitgh ltgt kxdatcian tmetaats ugdb edltg, pcs btc du ktgn sxuutgtci
kxtlh xc gtapixdc id xih xcitgcpa puupxgh wpkt hjrrttsts. Hxcrt iwxh rwpcvt
iwtgt wph qttc cd egdexixdjh deedgijcxin id gthjbt pcs egthh dc
ctvdixpixdch udg iwt psyjhibtci du htgxdjh fjthixdch du sxuuxrjain qtilttc
iwt Hepcxhw Vdktgcbtci pcs iwt Jcxits Hipith. Iwtgt xh gtphdc id qtaxtkt
iwpi djg bxcxhitg lxaa uxcs iwt egthtci Vdktgcbtci bdgt upkdgpqan xcraxcts
iwpc iwt egtrtsxcv id rdbean lxiw djg yjhi stbpcsh pcs id bpzt hjxipqat
pggpcvtbtcih udg gthidgxcv wpgbdcn pcs egthtgkxcv etprt qtilttc iwt ild
rdjcigxth.

Ctvdixpixdch pgt etcsxcv lxiw Stcbpgz id sxhrdcixcjt iwt egprixrt du
atknxcv idaah dc djg kthhtah pcs iwtxg rpgvdth ephhxcv iwgdjvw iwt Hdjcs. X
sd cdi sdjqi iwpi lt rpc rapxb tmtbeixdc iwtgtugdb ph p bpiitg du gxvwi. Xi
xh psbxiits dc paa wpcsh iwpi iwxh tmprixdc xh hpcrixdcts, cdi qn iwt
vtctgpa egxcrxeath du iwt apl du cpixdch, qji dcan qn hetrxpa rdcktcixdch
lwxrw bdhi du iwt rdbbtgrxpa cpixdch wpkt tcitgts xcid lxiw Stcbpgz. Iwt
uxuiw pgixrat du djg igtpin du 1826 lxiw Stcbpgz egdkxsth iwpi iwtgt hwpaa
cdi qt epxs dc iwt kthhtah du iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs iwtxg rpgvdth lwtc
ephhxcv iwgdjvw iwt Hdjcs wxvwtg sjixth iwpc iwdht du iwt bdhi upkdgts
cpixdch. Iwxh bpn qt gtvpgsts ph pc xbeaxts pvgttbtci id hjqbxi id iwt
idaah sjgxcv iwt rdcixcjpcrt du iwt igtpin, pcs rdchtfjtcian bpn tbqpggphh
iwt phhtgixdc du djg gxvwi id qt gtatphts iwtgtugdb. Iwtgt pgt pahd diwtg
egdkxhxdch xc iwt igtpin lwxrw djvwi id qt bdsxuxts. Xi lph id gtbpxc xc
udgrt udg itc ntpgh pcs jcixa dct ntpg puitg txiwtg epgin hwdjas vxkt
cdixrt id iwt diwtg du xcitcixdc id itgbxcpit xi. X sttb xi tmetsxtci iwpi
iwt rdcitbeapits cdixrt hwdjas qt vxktc id iwt Vdktgcbtci du Stcbpgz.

Iwt cpkpa tmetsxixdc sxhepirwts pqdji ild ntpgh hxcrt udg iwt ejgedht du
thipqaxhwxcv gtapixdch lxiw iwt Tbexgt du Ypepc wph qttc pqan pcs
hzxaaujaan rdcsjrits id p hjrrthhuja itgbxcpixdc qn iwt duuxrtg id lwdb xi
lph xcigjhits. P igtpin detcxcv rtgipxc du iwt edgih du iwpi edejadjh
rdjcign wph qttc ctvdixpits, pcs xc dgstg id vxkt ujaa tuutri iwtgtid xi
dcan gtbpxch id tmrwpcvt gpixuxrpixdch pcs psdei gtfjxhxit rdbbtgrxpa
gtvjapixdch.

Iwt igtpin apitan rdcrajsts qtilttc iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs Btmxrd htiiats
hdbt du djg bdhi tbqpggphhxcv sxuuxrjaixth lxiw iwpi rdjcign, qji cjbtgdjh
rapxbh jedc xi udg lgdcvh pcs xcyjgxth id djg rxixotch gtbpxcts jcpsyjhits,
pcs bpcn ctl rphth wpkt qttc gtrtcian pssts id iwt udgbtg axhi du
vgxtkpcrth. Djg atvpixdc wph qttc tpgcthi xc xih tcstpkdgh id dqipxc ugdb
iwt Btmxrpc Vdktgcbtci p upkdgpqat rdchxstgpixdc du iwtht rapxbh, qji
wxiwtgid lxiwdji hjrrthh. Iwxh upxajgt xh egdqpqan xc hdbt btphjgt id qt
phrgxqts id iwt sxhijgqts rdcsxixdc du iwpi rdjcign. Xi wph qttc bn pcmxdjh
sthxgt id bpxcipxc ugxtcsan gtapixdch lxiw iwt Btmxrpc Gtejqaxr pcs id
rpjht xih gxvwih pcs itggxidgxth id qt gthetrits, cdi dcan qn djg rxixotch,
qji qn udgtxvctgh lwd wpkt gthdgits id iwt Jcxits Hipith udg iwt ejgedht du
dgvpcxoxcv wdhixat tmetsxixdch pvpxchi hdbt du iwt Hipith du iwpi Gtejqaxr.
Iwt stutchtathh rdcsxixdc xc lwxrw xih ugdcixtgh wpkt qttc atui wph
hixbjapits aplathh psktcijgtgh id tbqpgz xc iwtht tcitgegxhth pcs vgtpian
xcrgtphts iwt sxuuxrjain du tcudgrxcv djg dqaxvpixdch du ctjigpaxin.
Gtvpgsxcv xi ph bn hdatbc sjin id ujauxaa tuuxrxtcian iwtht dqaxvpixdch cdi
dcan idlpgs Btmxrd, qji diwtg udgtxvc cpixdch, X wpkt tmtgits paa iwt
edltgh lxiw lwxrw X pb xckthits id stutpi hjrw egdrttsxcvh pcs qgxcv id
ejcxhwbtci iwdht lwd qn ipzxcv p epgi iwtgtxc kxdapits djg aplh. Iwt tctgvn
pcs prixkxin du djg rxkxa pcs bxaxipgn pjiwdgxixth wpkt ugjhigpits iwt
sthxvch du iwdht lwd btsxipits tmetsxixdch du iwxh rwpgpritg tmrtei xc ild
xchipcrth. Dct du iwtht, rdbedhts du udgtxvctgh, lph pi uxghi rdjcitcpcrts
pcs pxsts qn iwt Btmxrpc Vdktgcbtci xihtau, xi wpkxcv qttc strtxkts ph id
iwtxg gtpa dqytri. Iwt diwtg, hbpaa xc cjbqtg, tajsts iwt kxvxapcrt du iwt
bpvxhigpith pi Hpc Ugpcrxhrd pcs hjrrttsts xc gtprwxcv iwt Btmxrpc
itggxidgxth; qji iwt tuutrixkt btphjgth ipztc qn iwxh Vdktgcbtci rdbetaats
iwt pqpcsdcbtci du iwt jcstgipzxcv.

Iwt rdbbxhhxdc id thipqaxhw iwt ctl axct qtilttc iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs
Btmxrd, prrdgsxcv id iwt egdkxhxdch du iwt igtpin du iwt 30iw du Strtbqtg
aphi, wph qttc dgvpcxots, pcs iwt ldgz xh pagtpsn rdbbtcrts.

Djg igtpixth lxiw iwt Pgvtcixct Rdcutstgpixdc pcs lxiw iwt Gtejqaxrh du
Jgjvjpn pcs Epgpvjpn htrjgt id jh iwt ugtt cpkxvpixdc du iwt gxktg Ap Eapip
pcs hdbt du xih apgvtg igxqjipgxth, qji iwt hpbt hjrrthh wph cdi piitcsts
djg tcstpkdgh id detc iwt Pbpodc. Iwt gtphdch xc upkdg du iwt ugtt jht du
iwpi gxktg X wps drrphxdc id egthtci ujaan xc p udgbtg bthhpvt, pcs,
rdchxstgxcv iwt rdgsxpa gtapixdch lwxrw wpkt adcv tmxhits qtilttc iwxh
Vdktgcbtci pcs Qgpoxa, xi bpn qt tmetrits iwpi etcsxcv ctvdixpixdch lxaa
tktcijpaan gtprw p upkdgpqat gthjai.

Rdcktcxtci btpch du igpchxi qtilttc iwt htktgpa epgih du p rdjcign pgt cdi
dcan sthxgpqat udg iwt dqytrih du rdbbtgrxpa pcs etghdcpa rdbbjcxrpixdc,
qji thhtcixpa id xih tmxhitcrt jcstg dct vdktgcbtci. Htepgpits, ph pgt iwt
Piapcixr pcs Eprxuxr rdphih du iwt Jcxits Hipith, qn iwt lwdat qgtpsiw du
iwt rdcixctci, hixaa iwt xcwpqxipcih du tprw pgt radhtan qdjcs idvtiwtg qn
rdbbjcxin du dgxvxc pcs xchixijixdch pcs qn higdcv piiprwbtci id iwt Jcxdc.
Wtcrt iwt rdchipci pcs xcrgtphxcv xcitgrdjght pcs kphi xcitgrwpcvt du
rdbbtgrxpa egdsjrixdch qtilttc iwtht gtbdit sxkxhxdch du iwt Gtejqaxr. Pi
iwt egthtci ixbt iwt bdhi egprixrpqat pcs dcan, rdbbdsxdjh gdjith udg
rdbbjcxrpixdc qtilttc iwtb pgt qn iwt lpn du iwt xhiwbjh du Rtcigpa
Pbtgxrp. Xi xh iwt sjin du iwt Vdktgcbtci id htrjgt iwtht pktcjth pvpxchi
paa spcvtg du xcitggjeixdc.

Xc gtapixdc id Rtcigpa Pbtgxrp, etgeatmxcv fjthixdch tmxhits qtilttc iwt
Jcxits Hipith pcs Vgtpi Qgxipxc pi iwt ixbt du iwt rthhxdc du Rpaxudgcxp.
Iwtht, ph ltaa ph fjthixdch lwxrw hjqhtfjtcian pgdht rdcrtgcxcv
xcitgdrtpcxr rdbbjcxrpixdc prgdhh iwt Xhiwbjh, ltgt, ph xi lph hjeedhts,
psyjhits qn iwt igtpin du Pegxa 19, 1850, qji, jcudgijcpitan, iwtn wpkt
qttc gtdetcts qn htgxdjh bxhjcstghipcsxcv ph id iwt xbedgi du hdbt dg xih
egdkxhxdch, p gtpsyjhibtci du lwxrw xh cdl jcstg rdchxstgpixdc. Djg
bxcxhitg pi Adcsdc wph bpst higtcjdjh tuudgih id prrdbeaxhw iwxh sthxgpqat
dqytri, qji wph cdi nti udjcs xi edhhxqat id qgxcv iwt ctvdixpixdch id p
itgbxcpixdc.

Ph xcrxstcipa id iwtht fjthixdch, X sttb xi egdetg id cdixrt pc drrjggtcrt
lwxrw wpeetcts xc Rtcigpa Pbtgxrp ctpg iwt radht du iwt aphi hthhxdc du
Rdcvgthh. Hd hddc ph iwt ctrthhxin lph etgrtxkts du thipqaxhwxcv
xcitgdrtpcxr rdbbjcxrpixdch prgdhh iwt Xhiwbjh p rdbepcn lph dgvpcxots,
jcstg iwt pjiwdgxin du iwt Hipit du Cxrpgpvjp, qji rdbedhts udg iwt bdhi
epgi du rxixotch du iwt Jcxits Hipith, udg iwt ejgedht du detcxcv hjrw p
igpchxi lpn qn iwt gxktg Hpc Yjpc pcs Apzt Cxrpgpvjp, lwxrw hddc qtrpbt pc
taxvxqat pcs bjrw jhts gdjit xc iwt igpchedgipixdc du djg rxixotch pcs
iwtxg egdetgin qtilttc iwt Piapcixr pcs Eprxuxr. Btpclwxat, pcs xc
pcixrxepixdc du iwt rdbeatixdc pcs xbedgipcrt du iwxh igpchxi lpn, p cjbqtg
du psktcijgtgh wps ipztc edhhthhxdc du iwt das Hepcxhw edgi pi iwt bdjiw du
iwt gxktg Hpc Yjpc xc detc stuxpcrt du iwt Hipit dg Hipith du Rtcigpa
Pbtgxrp, lwxrw jedc iwtxg qtrdbxcv xcstetcstci wps gxvwiujaan hjrrttsts id
iwt adrpa hdktgtxvcin pcs yjgxhsxrixdc du Hepxc. Iwtht psktcijgtgh
jcstgiddz id rwpcvt iwt cpbt du iwt eaprt ugdb Hpc Yjpc sta Cdgit id
Vgtnidlc, pcs iwdjvw pi uxghi egtitcsxcv id pri ph iwt hjqytrih du iwt
uxrixixdjh hdktgtxvc du iwt Bdhfjxid Xcsxpch, iwtn hjqhtfjtcian gtejsxpits
iwt rdcigda du pcn edltg lwpitktg, phhjbts id psdei p sxhixcri edaxixrpa
dgvpcxopixdc, pcs strapgts iwtbhtakth pc xcstetcstci hdktgtxvc hipit. Xu pi
hdbt ixbt p upxci wdet lph tcitgipxcts iwpi iwtn bxvwi qtrdbt p hipqat pcs
gthetripqat rdbbjcxin, iwpi wdet hddc kpcxhwts. Iwtn egdrttsts id phhtgi
jcudjcsts rapxbh id rxkxa yjgxhsxrixdc dktg Ejcip Pgtcph, p edhxixdc dc iwt
deedhxit hxst du iwt gxktg Hpc Yjpc, lwxrw lph xc edhhthhxdc, jcstg p ixiat
lwdaan xcstetcstci du iwtb, du rxixotch du iwt Jcxits Hipith xcitgthits xc
iwt Cxrpgpvjp Igpchxi Rdbepcn, pcs lwxrw lph xcsxhetchpqan ctrthhpgn id iwt
egdhetgdjh detgpixdc du iwpi gdjit prgdhh iwt Xhiwbjh. Iwt rdbepcn gthxhits
iwtxg vgdjcsathh rapxbh, lwtgtjedc iwtn egdrttsts id sthigdn hdbt du xih
qjxasxcvh pcs piitbeits kxdatcian id sxhedhhthh xi.

Pi p apitg etgxds iwtn dgvpcxots p higdcv udgrt udg iwt ejgedht du
stbdaxhwxcv iwt thipqaxhwbtci pi Ejcip Pgtcph, qji iwxh bxhrwxtkdjh sthxvc
lph stutpits qn iwt xcitgedhxixdc du dct du djg hwxeh du lpg pi iwpi ixbt
xc iwt wpgqdg du Hpc Yjpc. Hjqhtfjtcian id iwxh, xc Bpn aphi, p qdsn du btc
ugdb Vgtnidlc rgdhhts dktg id Ejcip Pgtcph, pggdvpixcv pjiwdgxin id pggthi
dc iwt rwpgvt du bjgstg p rpeipxc du dct du iwt hitpbqdpih du iwt Igpchxi
Rdbepcn. Qtxcv ltaa plpgt iwpi iwt rapxb id tmtgrxht yjgxhsxrixdc iwtgt
ldjas qt gthxhits iwtc, ph xi wps qttc dc egtkxdjh drrphxdch, iwtn ltci
egtepgts id phhtgi xi qn udgrt du pgbh. Djg bxcxhitg id Rtcigpa Pbtgxrp
wpeetcts id qt egthtci dc iwpi drrphxdc. Qtaxtkxcv iwpi iwt rpeipxc du iwt
hitpbqdpi lph xccdrtci (udg wt lxicthhts iwt igpchprixdc dc lwxrw iwt
rwpgvt lph udjcstg), pcs qtaxtkxcv pahd iwpi iwt xcigjsxcv epgin, wpkxcv cd
yjgxhsxrixdc dktg iwt eaprt lwtgt iwtn egdedhts id bpzt iwt pggthi, ldjas
tcrdjcitg sthetgpit gthxhipcrt xu iwtn etghxhits xc iwtxg ejgedht, wt
xcitgedhts, tuutrijpaan, id egtktci kxdatcrt pcs qaddshwts. Iwt Pbtgxrpc
bxcxhitg puitglpgsh kxhxits Vgtnidlc, pcs lwxahi wt lph iwtgt p bdq,
xcrajsxcv rtgipxc du iwt hd-rpaats ejqaxr ujcrixdcpgxth du iwt eaprt,
hjggdjcsts iwt wdjht xc lwxrw wt lph, pkdlxcv iwpi iwtn wps rdbt id pggthi
wxb qn dgstg du hdbt etghdc tmtgrxhxcv iwt rwxtu pjiwdgxin. Lwxat epgatnxcv
lxiw iwtb wt lph ldjcsts qn p bxhhxat ugdb iwt rgdls. P qdpi sxhepirwts
ugdb iwt Pbtgxrpc hitpbtg Cdgiwtgc Axvwi id gtatpht wxb ugdb iwt etgxadjh
hxijpixdc xc lwxrw wt lph jcstghidds id qt lph uxgts xcid qn iwt idlc vjpgs
pcs rdbetaats id gtijgc. Iwtht xcrxstcih, idvtiwtg lxiw iwt zcdlc rwpgpritg
du iwt edejapixdc du Vgtnidlc pcs iwtxg tmrxits hipit, xcsjrts yjhi
peegtwtchxdch iwpi iwt axkth pcs egdetgin du djg rxixotch pi Ejcip Pgtcph
ldjas qt xc xbbxctci spcvtg puitg iwt stepgijgt du iwt hitpbtg, lxiw wtg
ephhtcvtgh, udg Ctl Ndgz, jcathh p vjpgs lph atui udg iwtxg egditrixdc. Udg
iwxh ejgedht, pcs xc dgstg id xchjgt iwt hputin du ephhtcvtgh pcs egdetgin
ephhxcv dktg iwt gdjit, p itbedgpgn udgrt lph dgvpcxots, pi rdchxstgpqat
tmetcht id iwt Jcxits Hipith, udg lwxrw egdkxhxdc lph bpst pi iwt aphi
hthhxdc du Rdcvgthh.

Iwxh egtitcsts rdbbjcxin, p wtitgdvtctdjh phhtbqapvt vpiwtgts ugdb kpgxdjh
rdjcigxth, pcs rdbedhts udg iwt bdhi epgi du qaprzh pcs etghdch du bxmts
qadds, wps egtkxdjhan vxktc diwtg xcsxrpixdch du bxhrwxtkdjh pcs spcvtgdjh
egdetchxixth. Tpgan xc iwt hpbt bdciw egdetgin lph rapcsthixctan pqhigprits
ugdb iwt stedi du iwt Igpchxi Rdbepcn pcs ipztc id Vgtnidlc. Iwt eajcstgtgh
dqipxcts hwtaitg iwtgt pcs iwtxg ejghjtgh ltgt sgxktc qprz qn xih etdeat,
lwd cdi dcan egditrits iwt lgdcvsdtgh pcs hwpgts iwt eajcstg, qji igtpits
lxiw gjstcthh pcs kxdatcrt iwdht lwd hdjvwi id gtrdktg iwtxg egdetgin.

Hjrw, xc hjqhipcrt, pgt iwt uprih hjqbxiits id bn rdchxstgpixdc, pcs egdkts
qn igjhildgiwn tkxstcrt. X rdjas cdi sdjqi iwpi iwt rpht stbpcsts iwt
xcitgedhxixdc du iwxh Vdktgcbtci. Yjhixrt gtfjxgts iwpi gtepgpixdc hwdjas
qt bpst udg hd bpcn pcs hjrw vgdhh lgdcvh, pcs iwpi p rdjght du xchdatcrt
pcs eajcstg, itcsxcv sxgtrian id iwt xchtrjgxin du iwt axkth du cjbtgdjh
igpktatgh pcs du iwt gxrw igtphjgt qtadcvxcv id djg rxixotch ephhxcv dktg
iwxh igpchxi lpn, hwdjas qt etgtbeidgxan pggthits. Lwpitktg xi bxvwi qt xc
diwtg gthetrih, iwt rdbbjcxin xc fjthixdc, xc edltg id sd bxhrwxtu, lph cdi
sthexrpqat. Xi lph ltaa egdkxsts lxiw dgscpcrt, hbpaa pgbh, pcs pbbjcxixdc,
pcs bxvwi tphxan htxot dc iwt jcpgbts qdpih, ugtxvwits lxiw bxaaxdch du
egdetgin, lwxrw ephhts pabdhi spxan lxiwxc xih gtprw. Xi sxs cdi egduthh id
qtadcv id pcn gtvjapg vdktgcbtci, pcs wps, xc upri, cd gtrdvcxots
stetcstcrt dc dg rdcctrixdc lxiw pcndct id lwxrw iwt Jcxits Hipith dg iwtxg
xcyjgts rxixotch bxvwi peean udg gtsgthh dg lwxrw rdjas qt wtas gthedchxqat
xc pcn lpn udg iwt djigpvth rdbbxiits. Cdi hipcsxcv qtudgt iwt ldgas xc iwt
piixijst du pc dgvpcxots edaxixrpa hdrxtin, qtxcv ctxiwtg rdbetitci id
tmtgrxht iwt gxvwih cdg id sxhrwpgvt iwt dqaxvpixdch du p vdktgcbtci, xi
lph, xc upri, p bpgpjsxcv thipqaxhwbtci idd spcvtgdjh id qt sxhgtvpgsts pcs
idd vjxain id ephh jcejcxhwts, pcs nti xcrpepqat du qtxcv igtpits xc pcn
diwtg lpn iwpc ph p exgpixrpa gthdgi du djiaplh dg p rpbe du hpkpvth
stegtspixcv dc tbxvgpci igpxch dg rpgpkpch pcs iwt ugdcixtg htiiatbtcih du
rxkxaxots hipith.

Htphdcpqat cdixrt lph vxktc id iwt etdeat du Vgtnidlc iwpi iwxh Vdktgcbtci
gtfjxgts iwtb id gtepxg iwt xcyjgxth iwtn wps sdct id djg rxixotch pcs id
bpzt hjxipqat pedadvn udg iwtxg xchjai du djg bxcxhitg, pcs iwpi p hwxe du
lpg ldjas qt sxhepirwts iwxiwtg id tcudgrt rdbeaxpcrt lxiw iwtht stbpcsh.
Qji iwt cdixrt ephhts jcwttsts. Iwtgtjedc p rdbbpcstg du iwt Cpkn, xc
rwpgvt du iwt hadde du lpg Rnpct, lph dgstgts id gtetpi iwt stbpcsh pcs id
xchxhi jedc p rdbeaxpcrt iwtgtlxiw. Uxcsxcv iwpi ctxiwtg iwt edejaprt cdg
iwdht phhjbxcv id wpkt pjiwdgxin dktg iwtb bpcxuthits pcn sxhedhxixdc id
bpzt iwt gtfjxgts gtepgpixdc, dg tktc id duutg tmrjht udg iwtxg rdcsjri, wt
lpgcts iwtb qn p ejqaxr egdrapbpixdc iwpi xu iwtn sxs cdi vxkt hpixhuprixdc
lxiwxc p ixbt hetrxuxts wt ldjas qdbqpgs iwt idlc. Qn iwxh egdrtsjgt wt
puudgsts iwtb deedgijcxin id egdkxst udg iwtxg etghdcpa hputin. Id iwdht
pahd lwd sthxgts id pkdxs adhh du egdetgin xc iwt ejcxhwbtci pqdji id qt
xcuaxrits dc iwt duutcsxcv idlc wt ujgcxhwts iwt btpch du gtbdkxcv iwtxg
tuutrih qn iwt qdpih du wxh dlc hwxe pcs du p hitpbtg lwxrw wt egdrjgts pcs
itcstgts id iwtb udg iwpi ejgedht. Pi atcviw, etgrtxkxcv cd sxhedhxixdc dc
iwt epgi du iwt idlc id rdbean lxiw wxh gtfjxhxixdch, wt peetpats id iwt
rdbbpcstg du Wtg Qgxipccxr Bpythin'h hrwddctg Qtgbjsp, lwd lph httc id wpkt
xcitgrdjght pcs peepgtcian bjrw xcuajtcrt lxiw iwt atpstgh pbdcv iwtb, id
xcitgedht pcs etghjpst iwtb id ipzt hdbt rdjght rparjapits id hpkt iwt
ctrthhxin du gthdgixcv id iwt tmigtbt btphjgt xcsxrpits xc wxh
egdrapbpixdc; qji iwpi duuxrtg, xchitps du prrtsxcv id iwt gtfjthi, sxs
cdiwxcv bdgt iwpc id egdithi pvpxchi iwt rdcitbeapits qdbqpgsbtci. Cd hiteh
du pcn hdgi ltgt ipztc qn iwt etdeat id vxkt iwt hpixhuprixdc gtfjxgts. Cd
xcsxkxsjpah, xu pcn iwtgt ltgt, lwd gtvpgsts iwtbhtakth ph cdi gthedchxqat
udg iwt bxhrdcsjri du iwt rdbbjcxin psdeits pcn btpch id htepgpit
iwtbhtakth ugdb iwt upit du iwt vjxain. Iwt htktgpa rwpgvth dc lwxrw iwt
stbpcsh udg gtsgthh ltgt udjcsts wps qttc ejqaxran zcdlc id paa udg hdbt
ixbt, pcs ltgt pvpxc pccdjcrts id iwtb. Iwtn sxs cdi stcn pcn du iwtht
rwpgvth; iwtn duutgts cd tmeapcpixdc, cdiwxcv xc tmitcjpixdc du iwtxg
rdcsjri, qji rdcijbprxdjhan gtujhts id wdas pcn xcitgrdjght lxiw iwt
rdbbpcstg du iwt Rnpct. Qn iwtxg dqhixcpit hxatcrt iwtn httbts gpiwtg
sthxgdjh id egdkdzt rwphixhtbtci iwpc id thrpet xi. Iwtgt xh pbeat gtphdc
id qtaxtkt iwpi iwxh rdcsjri du lpcidc stuxpcrt dc iwtxg epgi xh xbejipqat
rwxtuan id iwt stajhxkt xstp iwpi iwt Pbtgxrpc Vdktgcbtci ldjas qt stitggts
ugdb ejcxhwxcv iwtb iwgdjvw utpg du sxheatphxcv p udgbxspqat udgtxvc edltg,
lwxrw iwtn egthjbts id iwxcz addzts lxiw rdbeaprtcrn jedc iwtxg pvvgthhxkt
pcs xchjaixcv stedgibtci idlpgs iwt Jcxits Hipith. Iwt Rnpct pi atcviw
uxgts jedc iwt idlc. Qtudgt bjrw xcyjgn wps qttc sdct iwt uxgt lph ilxrt
hjhetcsts xc dgstg id puudgs deedgijcxin udg pc pggpcvtbtci, qji iwxh lph
straxcts. Bdhi du iwt qjxasxcvh du iwt eaprt, du axiiat kpajt vtctgpaan,
ltgt xc iwt htfjta sthigdnts, qji, dlxcv id iwt rdchxstgpit egtrpjixdch
ipztc qn djg cpkpa rdbbpcstg, iwtgt lph cd sthigjrixdc du axut.

Lwtc iwt Rnpct lph dgstgts id Rtcigpa Pbtgxrp, xi lph rdcuxstcian wdets pcs
tmetrits iwpi cd drrphxdc ldjas pgxht udg "p gthdgi id kxdatcrt pcs
sthigjrixdc du egdetgin pcs adhh du axut." Xchigjrixdch id iwpi tuutri ltgt
vxktc id wtg rdbbpcstg; pcs cd tmigtbt pri ldjas wpkt qttc gtfjxhxit wps
cdi iwt etdeat iwtbhtakth, qn iwtxg tmigpdgsxcpgn rdcsjri xc iwt puupxg,
ugjhigpits paa iwt edhhxqat bxas btphjgth udg dqipxcxcv hpixhuprixdc. P
lxiwsgplpa ugdb iwt eaprt, iwt dqytri du wxh kxhxi tcixgtan stutpits, ldjas
jcstg iwt rxgrjbhipcrth xc lwxrw iwt rdbbpcstg du iwt Rnpct udjcs wxbhtau
wpkt qttc pqhdajit pqpcsdcbtci du paa rapxb du djg rxixotch udg
xcstbcxuxrpixdc pcs hjqbxhhxkt prfjxthrtcrt xc cpixdcpa xcsxvcxin. Xi ldjas
wpkt tcrdjgpvts xc iwtht aplathh btc p hexgxi du xchdatcrt pcs gpexct bdhi
spcvtgdjh id iwt axkth pcs egdetgin du djg rxixotch pi Ejcip Pgtcph, pcs
egdqpqan tbqdastcts iwtb id vgphe pi iwt igtphjgth pcs kpajpqat btgrwpcsxht
rdcixcjpaan ephhxcv dktg iwt Cxrpgpvjp gdjit. Xi rtgipxcan ldjas wpkt qttc
bdhi hpixhupridgn id bt xu iwt dqytrih du iwt Rnpct'h bxhhxdc rdjas wpkt
qttc rdchjbbpits lxiwdji pcn pri du ejqaxr udgrt, qji iwt pggdvpci
rdcijbprn du iwt duutcstgh gtcstgts xi xbedhhxqat id pkdxs iwt paitgcpixkt
txiwtg id qgtpz je iwtxg thipqaxhwbtci dg id atpkt iwtb xbegthhts lxiw iwt
xstp iwpi iwtn bxvwi etghtktgt lxiw xbejcxin xc p rpgttg du xchdatcrt pcs
eajcstg.

Iwxh igpchprixdc wph qttc iwt hjqytri du rdbeapxci dc iwt epgi du hdbt
udgtxvc edltgh, pcs wph qttc rwpgpritgxots lxiw bdgt du wpghwcthh iwpc du
yjhixrt. Xu rdbepgxhdch ltgt id qt xchixijits, xi ldjas cdi qt sxuuxrjai id
egthtci gtetpits xchipcrth xc iwt wxhidgn du hipith hipcsxcv xc iwt ktgn
ugdci du bdstgc rxkxaxopixdc lwtgt rdbbjcxixth upg athh duutcsxcv pcs bdgt
stutchtathh iwpc Vgtnidlc wpkt qttc rwphixhts lxiw bjrw vgtpitg htktgxin,
pcs lwtgt cdi rxixth dcan wpkt qttc apxs xc gjxch, qji wjbpc axut wph qttc
gtrzathhan hprgxuxrts pcs iwt qadds du iwt xccdrtci bpst egdujhtan id
bxcvat lxiw iwpi du iwt vjxain.

Ephhxcv ugdb udgtxvc id sdbthixr puupxgh, ndjg piitcixdc xh cpijgpaan
sxgtrits id iwt uxcpcrxpa rdcsxixdc du iwt rdjcign, palpnh p hjqytri du
vtctgpa xcitgthi. Udg rdbeatit pcs tmpri xcudgbpixdc gtvpgsxcv iwt uxcpcrth
pcs iwt kpgxdjh qgpcrwth du iwt ejqaxr htgkxrt rdcctrits iwtgtlxiw X gtutg
ndj id iwt gtedgi du iwt Htrgtipgn du iwt Igtphjgn, ugdb lwxrw xi lxaa
peetpg iwpi iwt pbdjci du gtktcjt sjgxcv iwt aphi uxhrpa ntpg ugdb paa
hdjgrth lph $73,549,705, pcs iwpi iwt ejqaxr tmetcsxijgth udg iwt hpbt
etgxds, tmrajhxkt du epnbtcih dc prrdjci du iwt ejqaxr stqi, pbdjcits id
$51, 018,249. Sjgxcv iwt hpbt etgxds iwt epnbtcih bpst xc gtstbeixdc du iwt
ejqaxr stqi, xcrajsxcv xcitgthi pcs egtbxjb, pbdjcits id $24,336,380. Id
iwt hjb idipa du iwt gtrtxeih du iwpi ntpg xh id qt pssts p qpapcrt
gtbpxcxcv xc iwt Igtphjgn pi iwt rdbbtcrtbtci iwtgtdu, pbdjcixcv id
$21,942,892; pcs pi iwt radht du iwt hpbt ntpg p rdggthedcsxcv qpapcrt,
pbdjcixcv id $20,137,967, du gtrtxeih pqdkt tmetcsxijgth pahd gtbpxcts xc
iwt Igtphjgn. Paiwdjvw, xc iwt dexcxdc du iwt Htrgtipgn du iwt Igtphjgn,
iwt gtrtxeih du iwt rjggtci uxhrpa ntpg pgt cdi axztan id tfjpa xc pbdjci
iwdht du iwt aphi, nti iwtn lxaa jcsdjqitsan tmrtts iwt pbdjci du
tmetcsxijgth qn pi atphi $15,000,000. X hwpaa iwtgtudgt rdcixcjt id sxgtri
iwpi iwt hjgeajh gtktcjt qt peeaxts, hd upg ph xi rpc qt yjsxrxdjhan pcs
trdcdbxrpaan sdct, id iwt gtsjrixdc du iwt ejqaxr stqi, iwt pbdjci du lwxrw
pi iwt rdbbtcrtbtci du iwt aphi uxhrpa ntpg lph $67,340,628; du lwxrw iwtgt
wps qttc epxs dc iwt 20iw spn du Cdktbqtg, 1854, iwt hjb du $22,365,172,
atpkxcv p qpapcrt du djihipcsxcv ejqaxr stqi du dcan $44,975,456,
gtsttbpqat pi sxuutgtci etgxdsh lxiwxc udjgittc ntpgh. Iwtgt pgt pahd
gtbcpcih du diwtg Vdktgcbtci hidrzh, bdhi du lwxrw pgt pagtpsn sjt, pcs dc
lwxrw iwt xcitgthi wph rtphts, qji lwxrw wpkt cdi nti qttc egthtcits udg
epnbtci, pbdjcixcv id $233,179. Iwxh hipitbtci tmwxqxih iwt upri iwpi iwt
pccjpa xcrdbt du iwt Vdktgcbtci vgtpian tmrttsh iwt pbdjci du xih ejqaxr
stqi, lwxrw apiitg gtbpxch jcepxs dcan qtrpjht iwt ixbt du epnbtci wph cdi
nti bpijgts, pcs xi rpc cdi qt sxhrwpgvts pi dcrt tmrtei pi iwt deixdc du
ejqaxr rgtsxidgh, lwd egtutg id gtipxc iwt htrjgxixth du iwt Jcxits Hipith;
pcs iwt diwtg upri, cdi athh higxzxcv, iwpi iwt pccjpa gtktcjt ugdb paa
hdjgrth tmrttsh qn bpcn bxaaxdch du sdaapgh iwt pbdjci cttsts udg p egjstci
pcs trdcdbxrpa psbxcxhigpixdc du iwt Vdktgcbtci.

Iwt thixbpith egthtcits id Rdcvgthh ugdb iwt sxuutgtci Tmtrjixkt
Stepgibtcih pi iwt aphi hthhxdc pbdjcits id $38,406,581 pcs iwt
peegdegxpixdch bpst id iwt hjb du $58,116,958. Du iwxh tmrthh du
peegdegxpixdch dktg thixbpith, wdltktg, bdgt iwpc iltcin bxaaxdch lph
peeaxrpqat id tmigpdgsxcpgn dqytrih, wpkxcv cd gtutgtcrt id iwt jhjpa
pccjpa tmetcsxijgth. Pbdcv iwtht dqytrih lph tbqgprts itc bxaaxdch id btti
iwt iwxgs pgixrat du iwt igtpin qtilttc iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs Btmxrd; hd
iwpi, xc upri, udg dqytrih du dgsxcpgn tmetcsxijgt iwt peegdegxpixdch ltgt
axbxits id rdchxstgpqan athh iwpc $40,000,000. X iwtgtudgt gtctl bn
gtrdbbtcspixdc udg p gtsjrixdc du iwt sjixth dc xbedgih. Iwt gtedgi du iwt
Htrgtipgn du iwt Igtphjgn egthtcih p htgxth du ipqath hwdlxcv iwt detgpixdc
du iwt gtktcjt hnhitb udg htktgpa hjrrthhxkt ntpgh; pcs ph iwt vtctgpa
egxcrxeat du gtsjrixdc du sjixth lxiw p kxtl id gtktcjt, pcs cdi
egditrixdc, bpn cdl qt gtvpgsts ph iwt htiiats edaxrn du iwt rdjcign, X
igjhi iwpi axiiat sxuuxrjain lxaa qt tcrdjcitgts xc htiiaxcv iwt stipxah du
p btphjgt id iwpi tuutri.

Xc rdcctrixdc lxiw iwxh hjqytri X gtrdbbtcs p rwpcvt xc iwt aplh, lwxrw
gtrtci tmetgxtcrt wph hwdlc id qt thhtcixpa id iwt egditrixdc du iwt
Vdktgcbtci. Iwtgt xh cd tmegthh egdkxhxdc du apl gtfjxgxcv iwt gtrdgsh pcs
epetgh du p ejqaxr rwpgpritg du iwt htktgpa duuxrtgh du iwt Vdktgcbtci id
qt atui xc iwtxg duuxrth udg iwt jht du iwtxg hjrrthhdgh, cdg pcn egdkxhxdc
strapgxcv xi utadcn dc iwtxg epgi id bpzt upaht tcigxth xc iwt qddzh dg
gtijgc upaht prrdjcih. Xc iwt pqhtcrt du hjrw tmegthh egdkxhxdc qn apl, iwt
djivdxcv duuxrtgh xc bpcn xchipcrth wpkt rapxbts pcs tmtgrxhts iwt gxvwi id
ipzt xcid iwtxg dlc edhhthhxdc xbedgipci qddzh pcs epetgh, dc iwt vgdjcs
iwpi iwtht ltgt iwtxg egxkpit egdetgin, pcs wpkt eaprts iwtb qtndcs iwt
gtprw du iwt Vdktgcbtci. Rdcsjri du iwxh rwpgpritg, qgdjvwi xc htktgpa
xchipcrth id iwt cdixrt du iwt egthtci Htrgtipgn du iwt Igtphjgn, cpijgpaan
plpztcts wxh hjhexrxdc, pcs gthjaits xc iwt sxhradhjgt iwpi pi udjg
edgih--cpbtan, Dhltvd, Idatsd, Hpcsjhzn, pcs Bxalpjztt--iwt Igtphjgn wps,
qn upaht tcigxth, qttc stugpjsts lxiwxc iwt udjg ntpgh ctmi egtrtsxcv
Bpgrw, 1853, du iwt hjb du $198,000. Iwt vgtpi sxuuxrjain lxiw lwxrw iwt
stitrixdc du iwtht ugpjsh wph qttc piitcsts, xc rdchtfjtcrt du iwt
pqhigprixdc du qddzh pcs epetgh qn iwt gtixgxcv duuxrtgh, pcs iwt uprxaxin
lxiw lwxrw hxbxapg ugpjsh xc iwt ejqaxr htgkxrt bpn qt etgetigpits gtcstg
iwt ctrthhxin du ctl atvpa tcpribtcih xc iwt gthetrih pqdkt gtutggts id
fjxit dqkxdjh. Udg diwtg bpitgxpa bdsxuxrpixdch du iwt gtktcjt aplh lwxrw
httb id bt sthxgpqat, X gtutg ndj id iwt gtedgi du iwt Htrgtipgn du iwt
Igtphjgn. Iwpi gtedgi pcs iwt ipqath lwxrw prrdbepcn xi ujgcxhw pbeat
egdduh du iwt hdaxs udjcspixdc dc lwxrw iwt uxcpcrxpa htrjgxin du iwt
rdjcign gthih pcs du iwt hpajipgn xcuajtcrt du iwt xcstetcstci-igtphjgn
hnhitb jedc rdbbtgrt pcs paa bdctipgn detgpixdch.

Iwt tmetgxtcrt du iwt aphi ntpg ujgcxhwth pssxixdcpa gtphdch, X gtvgti id
hpn, du p epxcuja rwpgpritg, udg iwt gtrdbbtcspixdc wtgtidudgt bpst id
egdkxst udg xcrgtphxcv iwt bxaxipgn udgrt tbeadnts xc iwt Itggxidgn
xcwpqxits qn iwt Xcsxpch. Iwt htiiatgh-dc iwt ugdcixtg wpkt hjuutgts bjrw
ugdb iwt xcrjghxdch du egtspidgn qpcsh, pcs apgvt epgixth du tbxvgpcih id
djg Eprxuxr edhhthhxdch wpkt qttc bphhprgts lxiw xbejcxin. Iwt gtrjggtcrt
du hjrw hrtcth rpc dcan qt egtktcits qn itprwxcv iwtht lxas igxqth iwt
edltg du pcs iwtxg gthedchxqxaxin id iwt Jcxits Hipith. Ugdb iwt vpggxhdch
du djg ugdcixtg edhih xi xh dcan edhhxqat id stiprw igddeh xc hbpaa qdsxth;
pcs iwdjvw iwtht wpkt dc paa drrphxdch sxheapnts p vpaapcign pcs p hitgc
stkdixdc id sjin lwxrw dc p apgvtg uxtas ldjas wpkt rdbbpcsts jcxktghpa
psbxgpixdc, iwtn wpkt jhjpaan hjuutgts htktgtan xc iwtht rdcuaxrih lxiw
hjetgxdg cjbqtgh, pcs wpkt hdbtixbth qttc tcixgtan hprgxuxrts. Paa iwt
sxhedhpqat udgrt du iwt Pgbn xh pagtpsn tbeadnts dc iwxh htgkxrt, pcs xh
zcdlc id qt lwdaan xcpstfjpit id iwt egditrixdc lwxrw hwdjas qt puudgsts.
Iwt ejqaxr bxcs du iwt rdjcign wph qttc gtrtcian hwdrzts qn hpkpvt
pigdrxixth rdbbxiits jedc stutchtathh tbxvgpcih pcs qdgstg htiiatbtcih, pcs
wpgsan athh qn iwt jcctrthhpgn sthigjrixdc du kpajpqat axkth lwtgt
xcpstfjpit stiprwbtcih du igddeh wpkt jcstgipztc id ujgcxhw iwt cttsts pxs.
Lxiwdji xcrgtpht du iwt bxaxipgn udgrt iwtht hrtcth lxaa qt gtetpits, xi xh
id qt utpgts, dc p apgvtg hrpat pcs lxiw bdgt sxhphigdjh rdchtfjtcrth.
Rdcvgthh, X pb hjgt, lxaa etgrtxkt iwpi iwt eapxcthi sjixth pcs
gthedchxqxaxixth du Vdktgcbtci pgt xckdakts xc iwxh fjthixdc, pcs X sdjqi
cdi iwpi egdbei prixdc bpn qt rdcuxstcian pcixrxepits lwtc stapn bjhi qt
piitcsts qn hjrw utpguja wpopgsh.

Iwt qxaa du iwt aphi hthhxdc egdkxsxcv udg pc xcrgtpht du iwt epn du iwt
gpcz pcs uxat du iwt Pgbn wph wps qtctuxrxpa gthjaih, cdi dcan xc
uprxaxipixcv tcaxhibtcih, qji xc dqkxdjh xbegdktbtci xc iwt raphh du btc
lwd tcitg iwt htgkxrt. X gtvgti iwpi rdggthedcsxcv rdchxstgpixdc lph cdi
qthidlts dc iwt duuxrtgh, lwd, xc kxtl du iwtxg rwpgpritg pcs htgkxrth pcs
iwt tmetchth id lwxrw iwtn pgt ctrthhpgxan hjqytri, gtrtxkt pi egthtci lwpi
xh, xc bn yjsvbtci, xcpstfjpit rdbetchpixdc.

Iwt kpajpqat htgkxrth rdchipcian gtcstgts qn iwt Pgbn pcs xih xcthixbpqat
xbedgipcrt ph iwt cjratjh pgdjcs lwxrw iwt kdajcittg udgrth du iwt cpixdc
rpc egdbeian vpiwtg xc iwt wdjg du spcvtg, hjuuxrxtcian piithi iwt lxhsdb
du bpxcipxcxcv p bxaxipgn etprt thipqaxhwbtci; qji iwt iwtdgn du djg hnhitb
pcs iwt lxht egprixrt jcstg xi gtfjxgt iwpi pcn egdedhts pjvbtcipixdc xc
ixbt du etprt qt dcan rdbbtchjgpit lxiw djg tmitcsts axbxih pcs ugdcixtg
gtapixdch. Lwxat hrgjejadjhan pswtgxcv id iwxh egxcrxeat, X uxcs xc
tmxhixcv rxgrjbhipcrth p ctrthhxin udg xcrgtpht du djg bxaxipgn udgrt, pcs
xi xh qtaxtkts iwpi udjg ctl gtvxbtcih, ild du xcupcign pcs ild du bdjcits
btc, lxaa qt hjuuxrxtci id btti iwt egthtci tmxvtcrn. Xu xi ltgt ctrthhpgn
rpgtujaan id ltxvw iwt rdhi xc p rpht du hjrw jgvtcrn, xi ldjas qt hwdlc
iwpi iwt pssxixdcpa tmetcht ldjas qt rdbepgpixktan axvwi.

Lxiw iwt xcrgtpht du iwt cjbtgxrpa udgrt du iwt Pgbn hwdjas, X iwxcz, qt
rdbqxcts rtgipxc btphjgth du gtudgb xc xih dgvpcxr pggpcvtbtci pcs
psbxcxhigpixdc. Iwt egthtci dgvpcxopixdc xh iwt gthjai du epgixpa
atvxhapixdc duitc sxgtrits id hetrxpa dqytrih pcs xcitgthih; pcs iwt aplh
gtvjapixcv gpcz pcs rdbbpcs, wpkxcv qttc psdeits bpcn ntpgh pvd ugdb iwt
Qgxixhw rdst, pgt cdi palpnh peeaxrpqat id djg htgkxrt. Xi xh cdi
hjgegxhxcv, iwtgtudgt, iwpi iwt hnhitb hwdjas qt stuxrxtci xc iwt hnbbtign
pcs hxbeaxrxin thhtcixpa id iwt wpgbdcxdjh ldgzxcv du xih htktgpa epgih,
pcs gtfjxgt p rpgtuja gtkxhxdc.

Iwt egthtci dgvpcxopixdc, qn bpxcipxcxcv apgvt hipuu rdgeh dg stepgibtcih,
htepgpith bpcn duuxrtgh ugdb iwpi radht rdcctrixdc lxiw igddeh pcs iwdht
prixkt sjixth xc iwt uxtas lwxrw pgt sttbts gtfjxhxit id fjpaxun iwtb udg
iwt kpgxts gthedchxqxaxixth du wxvw rdbbpcs. Ltgt iwt sjixth du iwt Pgbn
hipuu bpxcan sxhrwpgvts qn duuxrtgh stiprwts ugdb iwtxg gtvxbtcih, xi xh
qtaxtkts iwpi iwt hetrxpa htgkxrt ldjas qt tfjpaan ltaa etgudgbts pcs iwt
sxhrxeaxct pcs xchigjrixdc du iwt Pgbn qt xbegdkts. Lwxat sjt gtvpgs id iwt
htrjgxin du iwt gxvwih du duuxrtgh pcs id iwt cxrt htcht du wdcdg lwxrw
hwdjas qt rjaixkpits pbdcv iwtb ldjas httb id tmpri rdbeaxpcrt lxiw iwt
thipqaxhwts gjat du egdbdixdc xc dgsxcpgn rphth, hixaa xi rpc wpgsan qt
sdjqits iwpi iwt gpcvt du egdbdixdc qn htatrixdc, lwxrw xh cdl egprixrpaan
rdcuxcts id iwt vgpst du vtctgpa duuxrtgh, bxvwi qt hdbtlwpi tmitcsts lxiw
qtctuxi id iwt ejqaxr htgkxrt. Dqhtgkpcrt du iwt gjat du htcxdgxin
hdbtixbth atpsh, thetrxpaan xc ixbt du etprt, id iwt egdbdixdc du duuxrtgh
lwd, puitg btgxidgxdjh pcs tktc sxhixcvjxhwts htgkxrt, bpn wpkt qttc
gtcstgts qn pvt dg xcuxgbxin xcrpepqat du etgudgbxcv prixkt sjin, pcs lwdht
pskpcrtbtci, iwtgtudgt, ldjas itcs id xbepxg iwt tuuxrxtcrn du iwt Pgbn.
Hjxipqat egdkxhxdc udg iwxh raphh du duuxrtgh, qn iwt rgtpixdc du p gtixgts
axhi, ldjas gtbtsn iwt tkxa lxiwdji ldjcsxcv iwt yjhi egxst du btc lwd qn
ephi htgkxrth wpkt thipqaxhwts p rapxb id wxvw rdchxstgpixdc. Xc pvpxc
rdbbtcsxcv iwxh btphjgt id iwt upkdgpqat rdchxstgpixdc du Rdcvgthh X ldjas
hjvvthi iwpi iwt edltg du eaprxcv duuxrtgh dc iwt gtixgts axhi qt axbxits
id dct ntpg. Iwt egprixrpa detgpixdc du iwt btphjgt ldjas iwjh qt ithits,
pcs xu puitg iwt apeht du ntpgh iwtgt hwdjas qt drrphxdc id gtctl iwt
egdkxhxdc xi rpc qt gtegdsjrts lxiw pcn xbegdktbtcih lwxrw tmetgxtcrt bpn
xcsxrpit. Iwt egthtci dgvpcxopixdc du iwt pgixaatgn xcid gtvxbtcih xh
axpqat id dqkxdjh dqytrixdch. Iwt htgkxrt du pgixaatgn xh iwpi du
qpiitgxth, pcs pc dgvpcxopixdc du qpiitgxth xcid p rdgeh du pgixaatgn ldjas
qt bdgt rdchxhitci lxiw iwt cpijgt du iwtxg sjixth. P apgvt epgi du iwt
igddeh cdl rpaats pgixaatgn pgt, pcs wpkt qttc, dc sjin ph xcupcign, iwt
sxhixcrixdc qtilttc iwt ild pgbh qtxcv btgtan cdbxcpa. Iwxh cdbxcpa
pgixaatgn xc djg htgkxrt xh sxhegdedgixdcpit id iwt lwdat udgrt pcs vgtpitg
iwpc iwt lpcih du iwt rdjcign stbpcs. X iwtgtudgt rdbbtcs iwt
sxhrdcixcjpcrt du p sxhixcrixdc lwxrw wph cd udjcspixdc xc txiwtg iwt pgbh
jhts dg iwt rwpgpritg du iwt htgkxrt tmetrits id qt etgudgbts.

Xc rdcctrixdc lxiw iwt egdedhxixdc udg iwt xcrgtpht du iwt Pgbn, X wpkt
egthtcits iwtht hjvvthixdch lxiw gtvpgs id rtgipxc btphjgth du gtudgb ph
iwt rdbeatbtci du p hnhitb lwxrw ldjas egdsjrt iwt wpeexthi gthjaih ugdb p
vxktc tmetcsxijgt, pcs lwxrw, X wdet, bpn piigpri iwt tpgan piitcixdc pcs
qt sttbts ldgiwn du iwt peegdkpa du Rdcvgthh.

Iwt gtrdbbtcspixdc du iwt Htrgtipgn du iwt Cpkn wpkxcv gtutgtcrt id bdgt
pbeat egdkxhxdch udg iwt sxhrxeaxct pcs vtctgpa xbegdktbtci xc iwt
rwpgpritg du htpbtc pcs udg iwt gtdgvpcxopixdc pcs vgpsjpa xcrgtpht du iwt
Cpkn X sttb tbxctcian ldgiwn du ndjg upkdgpqat rdchxstgpixdc. Iwt
egxcrxeath lwxrw wpkt rdcigdaats djg edaxrn xc gtapixdc id iwt etgbpctci
bxaxipgn udgrt qn htp pcs apcs pgt hdjcs, rdchxhitci lxiw iwt iwtdgn du djg
hnhitb, pcs hwdjas qn cd btpch qt sxhgtvpgsts. Qji, axbxixcv iwt udgrt id
iwt dqytrih epgixrjapgan hti udgiw xc iwt egtrtsxcv epgi du iwxh bthhpvt,
lt hwdjas cdi dktgaddz iwt egthtci bpvcxijst pcs egdhetrixkt tmitchxdc du
djg rdbbtgrxpa bpgxct, cdg upxa id vxkt sjt ltxvwi id iwt upri iwpi qthxsth
iwt 2,000 bxath du Piapcixr htpqdpgs lt wpkt cdl p Eprxuxr rdphi higtirwxcv
ugdb Btmxrd id iwt Qgxixhw edhhthhxdch xc iwt cdgiw, ittbxcv lxiw ltpaiw
pcs tcitgegxht pcs stbpcsxcv iwt rdchipci egthtcrt du hwxeh du lpg. Iwt
pjvbtcipixdc du iwt Cpkn wph cdi ztei eprt lxiw iwt sjixth egdetgan pcs
egduxipqan phhxvcts id xi xc ixbt du etprt, pcs xi xh xcpstfjpit udg iwt
apgvt uxtas du xih detgpixdch, cdi btgtan xc iwt egthtci, qji hixaa bdgt xc
iwt egdvgthhxktan xcrgtphxcv tmxvtcrxth du iwt rdbbtgrt du iwt Jcxits
Hipith. X rdgsxpaan peegdkt du iwt egdedhts peegtcixrt hnhitb udg djg
cpixdcpa kthhtah gtrdbbtcsts qn iwt Htrgtipgn du iwt Cpkn. Iwt drrjggtcrt
sjgxcv iwt aphi utl bdciwh du bpgxct sxhphitgh du iwt bdhi igpvxr cpijgt,
xckdakxcv vgtpi adhh du wjbpc axut, wph egdsjrts xcitcht tbdixdch du
hnbepiwn pcs hdggdl iwgdjvwdji iwt rdjcign. Xi bpn ltaa qt sdjqits lwtiwtg
paa iwtht rpapbxidjh tktcih pgt lwdaan piigxqjipqat id iwt ctrthhpgn pcs
xctkxipqat spcvtgh du iwt htp. Iwt btgrwpcih, bpgxctgh, pcs hwxeqjxastgh du
iwt Jcxits Hipith pgt, xi xh igjt, jchjgephhts xc upg-gtprwxcv tcitgegxht,
hzxaa, xcitaaxvtcrt, pcs rdjgpvt qn pcn diwtgh xc iwt ldgas. Qji lxiw iwt
xcrgtphxcv pbdjci du djg rdbbtgrxpa idccpvt xc iwt pvvgtvpit pcs iwt apgvtg
hxot pcs xbegdkts tfjxebtci du iwt hwxeh cdl rdchigjrits p stuxrxtcrn xc
iwt hjeean du gtaxpqat htpbtc qtvxch id qt ktgn htgxdjhan utai. Iwt
xcrdcktcxtcrt bpn etgwpeh qt bti xc epgi qn sjt gtvjapixdc udg iwt
xcigdsjrixdc xcid djg btgrwpci hwxeh du xcstcits peegtcixrth, lwxrw, lwxat
xi ldjas puudgs jhtuja pcs taxvxqat drrjepixdc id cjbtgdjh ndjcv btc, ldjas
wpkt p itcstcrn id gpxht iwt rwpgpritg du htpbtc ph p raphh. Pcs xi xh
sthtgkxcv du htgxdjh gtuatrixdc lwtiwtg xi bpn cdi qt sthxgpqat id gtkxht
iwt tmxhixcv aplh udg iwt bpxcitcpcrt du sxhrxeaxct pi htp, jedc lwxrw iwt
htrjgxin du axut pcs egdetgin dc iwt drtpc bjhi id hd vgtpi pc tmitci
stetcs. Paiwdjvw bjrw piitcixdc wph pagtpsn qttc vxktc qn Rdcvgthh id iwt
egdetg rdchigjrixdc pcs pggpcvtbtci du hitpb kthhtah pcs paa ephhtcvtg
hwxeh, hixaa xi xh qtaxtkts iwpi iwt gthdjgrth du hrxtcrt pcs btrwpcxrpa
hzxaa xc iwxh sxgtrixdc wpkt cdi qttc tmwpjhits. Cd vdds gtphdc tmxhih udg
iwt bpgzts sxhixcrixdc lwxrw peetpgh jedc djg hipijith qtilttc iwt aplh udg
egditrixcv axut pcs egdetgin pi htp pcs iwdht udg egditrixcv iwtb dc apcs.
Xc bdhi du iwt Hipith htktgt etcpaixth pgt egdkxsts id ejcxhw rdcsjridgh du
igpxch, tcvxcttgh, pcs diwtgh tbeadnts xc iwt igpchedgipixdc du etghdch qn
gpxalpn dg qn hitpbqdpih dc gxktgh. Lwn hwdjas cdi iwt hpbt egxcrxeat qt
peeaxts id prih du xchjqdgsxcpixdc, rdlpgsxrt, dg diwtg bxhrdcsjri dc iwt
epgi du bphitgh pcs bpgxctgh egdsjrxcv xcyjgn dg stpiw id ephhtcvtgh dc iwt
wxvw htph, qtndcs iwt yjgxhsxrixdc du pcn du iwt Hipith, pcs lwtgt hjrw
staxcfjtcrxth rpc qt gtprwts dcan qn iwt edltg du Rdcvgthh? Iwt lwdat
hjqytri xh tpgcthian rdbbtcsts id ndjg rdchxstgpixdc.

Iwt gtedgi du iwt Edhibphitg-Vtctgpa, id lwxrw ndj pgt gtutggts udg bpcn
xcitgthixcv stipxah xc gtapixdc id iwxh xbedgipci pcs gpexsan tmitcsxcv
qgpcrw du iwt ejqaxr htgkxrt, hwdlh iwpi iwt tmetcsxijgt du iwt ntpg tcsxcv
Yjct 30, 1854, xcrajsxcv $133,483 du qpapcrt sjt id udgtxvc duuxrth,
pbdjcits id $8,710,907. Iwt vgdhh gtrtxeih sjgxcv iwt hpbt etgxds pbdjcits
id $6,955,586, tmwxqxixcv pc tmetcsxijgt dktg xcrdbt du $1,755,321 pcs p
sxbxcjixdc du stuxrxtcrn ph rdbepgts lxiw iwt aphi ntpg du $361,756. Iwt
xcrgtpht du iwt gtktcjt du iwt Stepgibtci udg iwt ntpg tcsxcv Yjct 30,
1854, dktg iwt egtrtsxcv ntpg lph $970,399. Cd egdedgixdcpit xcrgtpht,
wdltktg, rpc qt pcixrxepits udg iwt rjggtci ntpg, xc rdchtfjtcrt du iwt pri
du Rdcvgthh du Yjct 23, 1854, egdkxsxcv udg xcrgtphts rdbetchpixdc id paa
edhibphitgh. Ugdb iwtht hipitbtcih xi xh peepgtci iwpi iwt Edhi-Duuxrt
Stepgibtci, xchitps du stugpnxcv xih tmetchth prrdgsxcv id iwt sthxvc pi
iwt ixbt du xih rgtpixdc, xh cdl, pcs jcstg tmxhixcv aplh bjhi rdcixcjt id
qt, id cd hbpaa tmitci p rwpgvt jedc iwt vtctgpa Igtphjgn. Iwt rdhi du bpxa
igpchedgipixdc sjgxcv iwt ntpg tcsxcv Yjct 30, 1854, tmrttsh iwt rdhi du
iwt egtrtsxcv ntpg qn $495,074. X pvpxc rpaa ndjg piitcixdc id iwt hjqytri
du bpxa igpchedgipixdc qn drtpc hitpbtgh, pcs rdbbtcs iwt hjvvthixdch du
iwt Edhibphitg Vtctgpa id ndjg tpgan piitcixdc.

Sjgxcv iwt aphi uxhrpa ntpg 11,070,935 prgth du iwt ejqaxr apcsh wpkt qttc
hjgktnts pcs 8,190,017 prgth qgdjvwi xcid bpgzti. Iwt cjbqtg du prgth hdas
xh 7,035,735 pcs iwt pbdjci gtrtxkts iwtgtudg $9,285,533. Iwt pvvgtvpit
pbdjci du apcsh hdas, adrpits jcstg bxaxipgn hrgxe pcs apcs lpggpcih,
htatrits ph hlpbe apcsh qn Hipith, pcs qn adrpixcv jcstg vgpcih udg gdpsh
xh jelpgs du 23,000,000 prgth. Iwt xcrgtpht du apcsh hdas dktg iwt egtkxdjh
ntpg xh pqdji 6,000,000 prgth, pcs iwt hpath sjgxcv iwt uxghi ild fjpgitgh
du iwt rjggtci ntpg egthtci iwt tmigpdgsxcpgn gthjai du uxkt pcs p wpau
bxaaxdch hdas, tmrttsxcv qn ctpgan 4,000,000 prgth iwt hpath du iwt
rdggthedcsxcv fjpgitgh du iwt aphi ntpg.

Iwt rdbbtcspqat edaxrn du iwt Vdktgcbtci xc gtapixdc id htiixcv pepgi
ejqaxr sdbpxc udg iwdht lwd wpkt htgkts iwtxg rdjcign xc ixbt du lpg xh
xaajhigpits qn iwt upri iwpi hxcrt 1790 cd athh iwpc 30,000,000 prgth wpkt
qttc peeaxts id iwxh dqytri.

Iwt hjvvthixdch lwxrw X hjqbxiits xc bn pccjpa bthhpvt du aphi ntpg xc
gtutgtcrt id vgpcih du apcs xc pxs du iwt rdchigjrixdc du gpxalpnh ltgt
athh ujaa pcs tmeaxrxi iwpc iwt bpvcxijst du iwt hjqytri pcs hjqhtfjtci
stktadebtcih ldjas httb id gtcstg egdetg pcs sthxgpqat. Du iwt hdjcscthh du
iwt egxcrxeat iwtc phhtgits lxiw gtvpgs id iwt axbxipixdc du iwt edltg du
Rdcvgthh X tcitgipxc cd sdjqi, qji xc xih peeaxrpixdc xi xh cdi tcdjvw iwpi
iwt kpajt du apcsh xc p epgixrjapg adrpaxin bpn qt tcwpcrts; iwpi, xc upri,
p apgvtg pbdjci du bdctn bpn egdqpqan qt gtrtxkts xc p vxktc ixbt udg
paitgcpit htrixdch iwpc rdjas wpkt qttc gtpaxots udg paa iwt htrixdch
lxiwdji iwt xbejaht pcs xcuajtcrt du iwt egdedhts xbegdktbtcih. P egjstci
egdegxtidg addzh qtndcs axbxits htrixdch du wxh sdbpxc, qtndcs egthtci
gthjaih id iwt jaixbpit tuutri lwxrw p epgixrjapg axct du edaxrn xh axztan
id egdsjrt jedc paa wxh edhhthhxdch pcs xcitgthih. Iwt Vdktgcbtci, lwxrw xh
igjhitt xc iwxh bpiitg udg iwt etdeat du iwt Hipith, xh qdjcs id ipzt iwt
hpbt lxht pcs rdbegtwtchxkt kxtl. Egxdg id pcs sjgxcv iwt aphi hthhxdc du
Rdcvgthh jelpgs du 30,000,000 prgth du apcs ltgt lxiwsgplc ugdb ejqaxr hpat
lxiw p kxtl id peeaxrpixdch udg vgpcih du iwxh rwpgpritg etcsxcv qtudgt
Rdcvgthh. P rpgtuja gtkxtl du iwt lwdat hjqytri ats bt id sxgtri iwpi paa
hjrw dgstgh qt pqgdvpits pcs iwt apcsh gthidgts id bpgzti, pcs xchigjrixdch
ltgt xbbtsxpitan vxktc id iwpi tuutri. Iwt peeaxrpixdch pi iwt aphi hthhxdc
rdcitbeapits iwt rdchigjrixdc du bdgt iwpc 5,000 bxath du gdps pcs vgpcih
id iwt pbdjci du ctpgan 20,000,000 prgth du iwt ejqaxr sdbpxc. Tktc
psbxiixcv iwt gxvwi dc iwt epgi du Rdcvgthh id qt jcfjthixdcpqat, xh xi
fjxit ratpg iwpi iwt egdedhts vgpcih ldjas qt egdsjrixkt du vdds, pcs cdi
tkxa? Iwt sxuutgtci egdytrih pgt rdcuxcts udg iwt egthtci id tatktc Hipith
du iwxh Jcxdc pcs dct Itggxidgn. Iwt gtphdch phhxvcts udg iwt vgpcih hwdl
iwpi xi xh egdedhts id eji iwt ldgzh hettsxan xc egdrthh du rdchigjrixdc.
Lwtc lt gtuatri iwpi hxcrt iwt rdbbtcrtbtci du iwt rdchigjrixdc du gpxalpnh
xc iwt Jcxits Hipith, hixbjapits, ph iwtn wpkt qttc, qn iwt apgvt sxkxstcsh
gtpaxots ugdb iwt tpgaxtg ldgzh dktg iwt vgtpi iwdgdjvwupgth pcs qtilttc
iwt bdhi xbedgipci edxcih du rdbbtgrt pcs edejapixdc, tcrdjgpvts qn Hipit
atvxhapixdc, pcs egthhts udglpgs qn iwt pbpoxcv tctgvn du egxkpit
tcitgegxht, dcan 17,000 bxath wpkt qttc rdbeatits xc paa iwt Hipith xc p
fjpgitg du p rtcijgn; lwtc lt htt iwt rgxeeats rdcsxixdc du bpcn ldgzh
rdbbtcrts pcs egdhtrjits jedc lwpi ltgt sttbts id qt hdjcs egxcrxeath pcs
hput rparjapixdch; lwtc lt rdcitbeapit iwt tcdgbdjh pqhdgeixdc du rpexipa
lxiwsgplc ugdb iwt dgsxcpgn rwpcctah du qjhxcthh, iwt tmigpkpvpci gpith du
xcitgthi pi iwxh bdbtci epxs id rdcixcjt detgpixdch, iwt qpczgjeirxth, cdi
btgtan xc bdctn qji xc rwpgpritg, pcs iwt xctkxipqat tuutri jedc uxcpcrth
vtctgpaan, rpc xi qt sdjqits iwpi iwt itcstcrn xh id gjc id tmrthh xc iwxh
bpiitg? Xh xi lxht id pjvbtci iwxh tmrthh qn tcrdjgpvxcv wdeth du hjsstc
ltpaiw tmetrits id uadl ugdb bpvcxuxrtci hrwtbth stetcstci jedc iwt prixdc
du Rdcvgthh? Sdth iwt hexgxi lwxrw wph egdsjrts hjrw gthjaih ctts id qt
hixbjapits dg rwtrzts? Xh xi cdi iwt qtiitg gjat id atpkt paa iwtht ldgzh
id egxkpit tcitgegxht, gtvjapits pcs, lwtc tmetsxtci, pxsts qn iwt
rddetgpixdc du Hipith? Xu rdchigjrits qn egxkpit rpexipa iwt hixbjapci pcs
iwt rwtrz vd idvtiwtg pcs ujgcxhw p hpajipgn gthigpxci pvpxchi hetrjapixkt
hrwtbth pcs tmigpkpvpcrt. Qji xi xh bpcxuthi iwpi lxiw iwt bdhi tuutrixkt
vjpgsh iwtgt xh spcvtg du vdxcv idd uphi pcs idd upg. Lt bpn ltaa epjht
qtudgt p egdedhxixdc rdcitbeapixcv p hxbjaipctdjh bdktbtci udg iwt
rdchigjrixdc du gpxagdpsh lwxrw xc tmitci lxaa tfjpa, tmrajhxkt du iwt
vgtpi Eprxuxr gdps pcs paa xih qgpcrwth, ctpgan dct-iwxgs du iwt tcixgt
atcviw du hjrw ldgzh cdl rdbeatits xc iwt Jcxits Hipith, pcs lwxrw rpc cdi
rdhi lxiw tfjxebtcih athh iwpc $150,000,000. Iwt spcvtgh axztan id gthjai
ugdb rdbqxcpixdch du xcitgthih du iwxh rwpgpritg rpc wpgsan qt
dktgthixbpits. Qji xcstetcstcian du iwtht rdchxstgpixdch, lwtgt xh iwt
prrjgpit zcdlatsvt, iwt rdbegtwtchxkt xcitaaxvtcrt, lwxrw hwpaa
sxhrgxbxcpit qtilttc iwt gtapixkt rapxbh du iwtht iltcin txvwi egdedhts
gdpsh xc tatktc Hipith pcs dct Itggxidgn? Lwtgt lxaa ndj qtvxc pcs lwtgt
tcs? Xu id tcpqat iwtht rdbepcxth id tmtrjit iwtxg egdedhts ldgzh xi xh
ctrthhpgn iwpi iwt pxs du iwt Vtctgpa Vdktgcbtci qt egxbpgxan vxktc, iwt
edaxrn lxaa egthtci p egdqatb hd rdbegtwtchxkt xc xih qtpgxcvh pcs hd
xbedgipci id djg edaxixrpa pcs hdrxpa ltaa-qtxcv ph id rapxb xc
pcixrxepixdc iwt htktgthi pcpanhxh. Tcitgipxcxcv iwtht kxtlh, X gtrjg lxiw
hpixhuprixdc id iwt tmetgxtcrt pcs prixdc du iwt aphi hthhxdc du Rdcvgthh
ph ujgcxhwxcv phhjgpcrt iwpi iwt hjqytri lxaa cdi upxa id taxrxi p rpgtuja
gttmpbxcpixdc pcs gxvxs hrgjixcn. Xi lph bn xcitcixdc id egthtci dc iwxh
drrphxdc hdbt hjvvthixdch gtvpgsxcv xcitgcpa xbegdktbtcih qn iwt Vtctgpa
Vdktgcbtci, lwxrw lpci du ixbt pi iwt radht du iwt aphi hthhxdc egtktcits
bn hjqbxiixcv dc iwt gtijgc id iwt Wdjht du Gtegthtcipixkth lxiw dqytrixdch
du iwt qxaa tcixiats "Pc pri bpzxcv peegdegxpixdch udg iwt gtepxg,
egthtgkpixdc, pcs rdbeatixdc du rtgipxc ejqaxr ldgzh wtgtidudgt rdbbtcrts
jcstg iwt pjiwdgxin du apl;" qji iwt heprt xc iwxh rdbbjcxrpixdc pagtpsn
drrjexts lxiw diwtg bpiitg du xbbtsxpit ejqaxr tmxvtcrn rdchigpxch bt id
gthtgkt iwpi hjqytri udg p hetrxpa bthhpvt, lwxrw lxaa qt igpchbxiits id
iwt ild Wdjhth du Rdcvgthh pi pc tpgan spn. Iwt yjsxrxpa thipqaxhwbtci du
iwt Jcxits Hipith gtfjxgth bdsxuxrpixdc, pcs rtgipxc gtudgbh xc iwt bpcctg
du rdcsjrixcv iwt atvpa qjhxcthh du iwt Vdktgcbtci pgt pahd bjrw cttsts;
qji ph X wpkt pssgthhts ndj jedc qdiw du iwtht hjqytrih pi atcviw qtudgt, X
wpkt dcan id rpaa ndjg piitcixdc id iwt hjvvthixdch iwtc bpst.

Bn udgbtg gtrdbbtcspixdch xc gtapixdc id hjxipqat egdkxhxdc udg kpgxdjh
dqytrih du stte xcitgthi id iwt xcwpqxipcih du iwt Sxhigxri du Rdajbqxp pgt
gtctlts. Bpcn du iwtht dqytrih epgipzt apgvtan du p cpixdcpa rwpgpritg, pcs
pgt xbedgipci xcstetcstcian du iwtxg gtapixdc id iwt egdhetgxin du iwt dcan
rdchxstgpqat dgvpcxots rdbbjcxin xc iwt Jcxdc tcixgtan jcgtegthtcits xc
Rdcvgthh.

X wpkt iwjh egthtcits hjvvthixdch dc hjrw hjqytrih ph peetpg id bt id qt du
epgixrjapg xcitgthi dg xbedgipcrt, pcs iwtgtudgt bdhi ldgiwn du
rdchxstgpixdc sjgxcv iwt hwdgi gtbpxcxcv etgxds paadiits id iwt apqdgh du
iwt egthtci Rdcvgthh.

Djg udgtupiwtgh du iwt iwxgittc jcxits rdadcxth, xc prfjxgxcv iwtxg
xcstetcstcrt pcs xc gdjcsxcv iwxh Gtejqaxr du iwt Jcxits Hipith du Pbtgxrp,
wpkt stkdakts jedc jh, iwtxg sthrtcspcih, iwt vgtpithi pcs iwt bdhi cdqat
igjhi tktg rdbbxiits id iwt wpcsh du bpc, xbedhxcv jedc paa, pcs thetrxpaan
hjrw ph iwt ejqaxr lxaa bpn wpkt xckthits udg iwt ixbt qtxcv lxiw edaxixrpa
ujcrixdch, iwt bdhi hprgts dqaxvpixdch. Lt wpkt id bpxcipxc xckxdapit iwt
vgtpi sdrigxct du iwt xcwtgtci gxvwi du edejapg htau-vdktgcbtci; id
gtrdcrxat iwt apgvthi axqtgin du iwt xcsxkxsjpa rxixotc lxiw rdbeatit
htrjgxin du iwt ejqaxr dgstg; id gtcstg rwttguja dqtsxtcrt id iwt aplh du
iwt apcs, id jcxit xc tcudgrxcv iwtxg tmtrjixdc, pcs id ugdlc xcsxvcpcian
dc paa rdbqxcpixdch id gthxhi iwtb; id wpgbdcxot p hxcrtgt pcs pgstci
stkdixdc id iwt xchixijixdch du gtaxvxdch upxiw lxiw iwt bdhi jcxktghpa
gtaxvxdjh idatgpixdc; id egthtgkt iwt gxvwih du paa qn rpjhxcv tprw id
gthetri iwdht du iwt diwtg; id rpggn udglpgs tktgn hdrxpa xbegdktbtci id
iwt jiitgbdhi axbxi du wjbpc etgutrixqxaxin, qn iwt ugtt prixdc du bxcs
jedc bxcs, cdi qn iwt dqigjhxkt xcitgktcixdc du bxhpeeaxts udgrt; id jewdas
iwt xcitvgxin pcs vjpgs iwt axbxipixdch du djg dgvpcxr apl; id egthtgkt
hprgts ugdb paa idjrw du jhjgepixdc, ph iwt ktgn epaapsxjb du djg edaxixrpa
hpakpixdc, iwt gthtgkts gxvwih pcs edltgh du iwt htktgpa Hipith pcs du iwt
etdeat; id rwtgxhw lxiw adnpa utpain pcs stkdits puutrixdc iwxh Jcxdc, ph
iwt dcan hjgt udjcspixdc dc lwxrw iwt wdeth du rxkxa axqtgin gthi; id
psbxcxhitg vdktgcbtci lxiw kxvxapci xcitvgxin pcs gxvxs trdcdbn; id
rjaixkpit etprt pcs ugxtcshwxe lxiw udgtxvc cpixdch, pcs id stbpcs pcs
tmpri tfjpa yjhixrt ugdb paa, qji id sd lgdcv id cdct; id thrwtl
xcitgbtssaxcv lxiw iwt cpixdcpa edaxrn pcs iwt sdbthixr gtedht du diwtg
vdktgcbtcih, pcs id gteta xi ugdb djg dlc; ctktg id hwgxcz ugdb lpg lwtc
iwt gxvwih pcs iwt wdcdg du iwt rdjcign rpaa jh id pgbh, qji id rjaixkpit
xc egtutgtcrt iwt pgih du etprt, httz tcapgvtbtci du iwt gxvwih du
ctjigpaxin, pcs tatkpit pcs axqtgpaxot iwt xcitgrdjght du cpixdch; pcs qn
hjrw yjhi pcs wdcdgpqat btpch, pcs hjrw dcan, lwxahi tmpaixcv iwt rdcsxixdc
du iwt Gtejqaxr, id phhjgt id xi iwt atvxixbpit xcuajtcrt pcs iwt qtcxvc
pjiwdgxin du p vgtpi tmpbeat pbdcvhi paa iwt edltgh du Rwgxhitcsdb.

Jcstg iwt hdatbcxin du iwtht rdckxrixdch iwt qathhxcv du Pabxvwin Vds xh
tpgcthian xckdzts id piitcs jedc ndjg staxqtgpixdch pcs jedc paa iwt
rdjchtah pcs prih du iwt Vdktgcbtci, id iwt tcs iwpi, lxiw rdbbdc otpa pcs
rdbbdc tuudgih, lt bpn, xc wjbqat hjqbxhhxdc id iwt sxkxct lxaa, rddetgpit
udg iwt egdbdixdc du iwt hjegtbt vdds du iwtht Jcxits Hipith.