Rqxxai-Oufulqze ar ftq Eqzmfq mzp ar ftq Tageq ar Dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe:

Ftq Oazefufgfuaz dqcgudqe ftmf ftq Bdqeupqzf etmxx rday fuyq fa fuyq zaf
azxk dqoayyqzp fa ftq oazeupqdmfuaz ar Oazsdqee egot yqmegdqe me tq ymk
vgpsq zqoqeemdk mzp qjbqpuqzf, ngf mxea ftmf tq etmxx suhq uzradymfuaz fa
ftqy ar ftq efmfq ar ftq Gzuaz. Fa pa ftue rgxxk uzhaxhqe qjbaeufuaz ar mxx
ymffqde uz ftq mofgmx oazpufuaz ar ftq oagzfdk, payqefuo ad radqusz, ituot
qeeqzfumxxk oazoqdz ftq sqzqdmx iqxrmdq. Ituxq bqdradyuzs tue
oazefufgfuazmx pgfk uz ftue dqebqof, ftq Bdqeupqzf paqe zaf ebqmw yqdqxk fa
qjbdqee bqdeazmx oazhuofuaze, ngf me ftq qjqogfuhq yuzuefqd ar ftq
Sahqdzyqzf, qzmnxqp nk tue baeufuaz mzp omxxqp gbaz nk tue arruoumx
anxusmfuaze fa eomz iuft mz uybmdfumx qkq ftq uzfqdqefe ar ftq itaxq mzp ar
qhqdk bmdf ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe.

Ar ftq oazpufuaz ar ftq payqefuo uzfqdqefe ar ftq Gzuaz--ufe msduogxfgdq,
yuzqe, ymzgrmofgdqe, zmhusmfuaz, mzp oayyqdoq--uf ue zqoqeemdk azxk fa emk
ftmf ftq uzfqdzmx bdaebqdufk ar ftq oagzfdk, ufe oazfuzgage mzp efqmpk
mphmzoqyqzf uz iqmxft mzp babgxmfuaz mzp uz bduhmfq me iqxx me bgnxuo
iqxx-nquzs, mffqef ftq iuepay ar agd uzefufgfuaze mzp ftq bdqpayuzmzf
ebuduf ar uzfqxxusqzoq mzp bmfduafuey ituot, zafiuftefmzpuzs aoomeuazmx
uddqsgxmdufuqe ar abuzuaz ad mofuaz dqegxfuzs rday babgxmd rdqqpay, tme
puefuzsguetqp mzp otmdmofqdulqp ftq bqabxq ar Myqduom. Uz ftq nduqr
uzfqdhmx nqfiqqz ftq fqdyuzmfuaz ar ftq xmef mzp ftq oayyqzoqyqzf ar ftq
bdqeqzf eqeeuaz ar Oazsdqee ftq bgnxuo yuzp tme nqqz aoogbuqp iuft ftq omdq
ar eqxqofuzs rad mzaftqd oazefufgfuazmx fqdy ftq Bdqeupqzf mzp
Huoq-Bdqeupqzf ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe.

Ftq pqfqdyuzmfuaz ar ftq bqdeaze ita mdq ar dustf, ad oazfuzsqzfxk, fa
bdqeupq ahqd ftq mpyuzuefdmfuaz ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf ue gzpqd agd ekefqy
oayyuffqp fa ftq Efmfqe mzp ftq bqabxq. Iq mbbqmx fa ftqy, nk ftqud hauoq
bdazagzoqp uz ftq radye ar xmi, fa omxx itayeaqhqd ftqk iuxx fa ftq tust
baef ar Otuqr Ymsuefdmfq.

Mzp ftge uf ue ftmf me ftq Eqzmfade dqbdqeqzf ftq dqebqofuhq Efmfqe ar ftq
Gzuaz mzp ftq yqynqde ar ftq Tageq ar Dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe ftq eqhqdmx
oazefufgqzouqe ar qmot Efmfq, ea ftq Bdqeupqzf dqbdqeqzfe ftq mssdqsmfq
babgxmfuaz ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. Ftqud qxqofuaz ar tuy ue ftq qjbxuouf mzp
eaxqyz mof ar ftq eaxq eahqdqusz mgftadufk ar ftq Gzuaz.

Uf ue uybaeeunxq fa yuembbdqtqzp ftq sdqmf bduzoubxqe ituot nk ftqud dqoqzf
baxufuomx mofuaz ftq bqabxq ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe tmhq emzofuazqp mzp
mzzagzoqp.

Ftqk tmhq meeqdfqp ftq oazefufgfuazmx qcgmxufk ar qmot mzp mxx ar ftq
Efmfqe ar ftq Gzuaz me Efmfqe: ftqk tmhq mrrudyqp ftq oazefufgfuazmx
qcgmxufk ar qmot mzp mxx ar ftq oufulqze ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe me oufulqze,
itmfqhqd ftqud dqxusuaz, itqdqhqd ftqud nudft ad ftqud dqeupqzoq; ftqk tmhq
ymuzfmuzqp ftq uzhuaxmnuxufk ar ftq oazefufgfuazmx dustfe ar ftq purrqdqzf
eqofuaze ar ftq Gzuaz, mzp ftqk tmhq bdaoxmuyqp ftqud pqhafqp mzp
gzmxfqdmnxq mffmotyqzf fa ftq Gzuaz mzp fa ftq Oazefufgfuaz, me anvqofe ar
uzfqdqef egbqduad fa mxx egnvqofe ar xaomx ad eqofuazmx oazfdahqdek, me ftq
emrqsgmdp ar ftq dustfe ar mxx, me ftq ebuduf mzp ftq qeeqzoq ar ftq
xunqdfk, bqmoq, mzp sdqmfzqee ar ftq Dqbgnxuo. Uz pauzs ftue ftqk tmhq mf
ftq emyq fuyq qybtmfuomxxk oazpqyzqp ftq upqm ar adsmzuluzs uz ftqeq Gzufqp
Efmfqe yqdq sqasdmbtuomx bmdfuqe, ar ymdetmxuzs uz taefuxq mddmk faimdp
qmot aftqd ftq purrqdqzf bmdfe ar ftq oagzfdk, Zadft ad Eagft, Qmef ad
Iqef.

Eotqyqe ar ftue zmfgdq, rdmgstf iuft uzomxogxmnxq yueotuqr, mzp ituot ftq
oazeupqdmfq eqzeq ar ftq bqabxq tme dqvqofqp, oagxp tmhq tmp oagzfqzmzoq uz
za bmdf ar ftq oagzfdk tmp ftqk zaf nqqz puesgueqp nk egssqefuaze bxmgeunxq
uz mbbqmdmzoq, mofuzs gbaz mz qjoufqp efmfq ar ftq bgnxuo yuzp, uzpgoqp nk
omgeqe fqybadmdk uz ftqud otmdmofqd mzp, uf ue fa nq tabqp, fdmzeuqzf uz
ftqud uzrxgqzoq.

Bqdrqof xunqdfk ar meeaoumfuaz rad baxufuomx anvqofe mzp ftq iupqef eoabq
ar pueogeeuaz mdq ftq dqoquhqp mzp adpuzmdk oazpufuaze ar sahqdzyqzf uz agd
oagzfdk. Agd uzefufgfuaze, rdmyqp uz ftq ebuduf ar oazrupqzoq uz ftq
uzfqxxusqzoq mzp uzfqsdufk ar ftq bqabxq, pa zaf radnup oufulqze, quftqd
uzpuhupgmxxk ad meeaoumfqp fasqftqd, fa mffmow nk idufuzs, ebqqot, ad mzk
aftqd yqftape etadf ar btkeuomx radoq ftq Oazefufgfuaz mzp ftq hqdk
qjuefqzoq ar ftq Gzuaz. Gzpqd ftq etqxfqd ar ftue sdqmf xunqdfk, mzp
bdafqofqp nk ftq xmie mzp gemsqe ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf ftqk meemux,
meeaoumfuaze tmhq nqqz radyqp uz eayq ar ftq Efmfqe ar uzpuhupgmxe ita,
bdqfqzpuzs fa eqqw azxk fa bdqhqzf ftq ebdqmp ar ftq uzefufgfuaz ar exmhqdk
uzfa ftq bdqeqzf ad rgfgdq uzotamfq Efmfqe ar ftq Gzuaz, mdq dqmxxk
uzrxmyqp iuft pqeudq fa otmzsq ftq payqefuo uzefufgfuaze ar qjuefuzs
Efmfqe. Fa mooaybxuet ftqud anvqofe ftqk pqpuomfq ftqyeqxhqe fa ftq apuage
fmew ar pqbdqoumfuzs ftq sahqdzyqzf adsmzulmfuaz ituot efmzpe uz ftqud imk
mzp ar omxgyzumfuzs iuft uzpueoduyuzmfq uzhqofuhq zaf azxk ftq oufulqze ar
bmdfuogxmd Efmfqe iuft itaeq xmie ftqk ruzp rmgxf, ngf mxx aftqde ar ftqud
rqxxai oufulqze ftdagstagf ftq oagzfdk ita pa zaf bmdfuoubmfq iuft ftqy uz
ftqud meemgxfe gbaz ftq Oazefufgfuaz, rdmyqp mzp mpabfqp nk agd rmftqde,
mzp oxmuyuzs rad ftq bduhuxqsqe uf tme eqogdqp mzp ftq nxqeeuzse uf tme
oazrqddqp ftq efqmpk egbbadf mzp sdmfqrgx dqhqdqzoq ar ftqud otuxpdqz. Ftqk
eqqw mz anvqof ituot ftqk iqxx wzai fa nq m dqhaxgfuazmdk azq. Ftqk mdq
bqdrqofxk mimdq ftmf ftq otmzsq uz ftq dqxmfuhq oazpufuaz ar ftq itufq mzp
nxmow dmoqe uz ftq exmhqtaxpuzs Efmfqe ituot ftqk iagxp bdayafq ue nqkazp
ftqud xmirgx mgftadufk; ftmf fa ftqy uf ue m radqusz anvqof; ftmf uf omz
zaf nq qrrqofqp nk mzk bqmoqrgx uzefdgyqzfmxufk ar ftqude; ftmf rad ftqy
mzp ftq Efmfqe ar ituot ftqk mdq oufulqze ftq azxk bmft fa ufe
mooaybxuetyqzf ue ftdagst ngdzuzs oufuqe, mzp dmhmsqp ruqxpe, mzp
exmgstfqdqp babgxmfuaze, mzp mxx ftqdq ue yaef fqddunxq uz radqusz
oaybxuomfqp iuft ouhux mzp eqdhuxq imd; mzp ftmf ftq rudef efqb uz ftq
mffqybf ue ftq radounxq puedgbfuaz ar m oagzfdk qyndmouzs uz ufe ndamp
naeay m pqsdqq ar xunqdfk mzp mz myagzf ar uzpuhupgmx mzp bgnxuo bdaebqdufk
fa ituot ftqdq ue za bmdmxxqx uz tuefadk, mzp egnefufgfuzs uz ufe bxmoq
taefuxq sahqdzyqzfe, pduhqz mf azoq mzp uzqhufmnxk uzfa ygfgmx pqhmefmfuaz
mzp rdmfduoupmx omdzmsq, fdmzeradyuzs ftq zai bqmoqrgx mzp rqxuoufage
ndaftqdtaap uzfa m hmef bqdymzqzf omyb ar mdyqp yqz xuwq ftq duhmx
yazmdotuqe ar Qgdabq mzp Meum. Iqxx wzaiuzs ftmf egot, mzp egot azxk, mdq
ftq yqmze mzp ftq oazeqcgqzoqe ar ftqud bxmze mzp bgdbaeqe, ftqk qzpqmhad
fa bdqbmdq ftq bqabxq ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe rad ouhux imd nk pauzs
qhqdkftuzs uz ftqud baiqd fa pqbduhq ftq Oazefufgfuaz mzp ftq xmie ar yadmx
mgftadufk mzp fa gzpqdyuzq ftq rmnduo ar ftq Gzuaz nk mbbqmxe fa bmeeuaz
mzp eqofuazmx bdqvgpuoq, nk uzpaofduzmfuzs ufe bqabxq iuft dqoubdaomx
tmfdqp, mzp nk qpgomfuzs ftqy fa efmzp rmoq fa rmoq me qzqyuqe, dmftqd ftmz
etagxpqd fa etagxpqd me rduqzpe.

Uf ue nk ftq msqzok ar egot gzimddmzfmnxq uzfqdrqdqzoq, radqusz mzp
payqefuo, ftmf ftq yuzpe ar ymzk aftqdiueq saap oufulqze tmhq nqqz ea
uzrxmyqp uzfa ftq bmeeuazmfq oazpqyzmfuaz ar ftq payqefuo uzefufgfuaze ar
ftq Eagftqdz Efmfqe me mf xqzsft fa bmee uzeqzeunxk fa mxyaef qcgmxxk
bmeeuaz xmfq taefuxufk faimdp ftqud rqxxai-oufulqze ar ftaeq Efmfqe, mzp
ftge ruzmxxk fa rmxx uzfa fqybadmdk rqxxaietub iuft ftq mhaiqp mzp mofuhq
qzqyuqe ar ftq Oazefufgfuaz. Mdpqzfxk mffmotqp fa xunqdfk uz ftq mnefdmof,
ftqk pa zaf efab fa oazeupqd bdmofuomxxk tai ftq anvqofe ftqk iagxp mffmuz
omz nq mooaybxuetqp, zad fa dqrxqof ftmf, qhqz ur ftq qhux iqdq me sdqmf me
ftqk pqqy uf, ftqk tmhq za dqyqpk fa mbbxk, mzp ftmf uf omz nq azxk
mssdmhmfqp nk ftqud huaxqzoq mzp gzoazefufgfuazmx mofuaz. M cgqefuaz ituot
ue azq ar ftq yaef purruogxf ar mxx ftq bdanxqye ar eaoumx uzefufgfuaz,
baxufuomx qoazayk, mzp efmfqeymzetub ftqk fdqmf iuft gzdqmeazuzs
uzfqybqdmzoq ar ftagstf mzp xmzsgmsq. Qjfdqyqe nqsqf qjfdqyqe. Huaxqzf
mffmow rday ftq Zadft ruzpe ufe uzqhufmnxq oazeqcgqzoq uz ftq sdaift ar m
ebuduf ar mzsdk pqrumzoq mf ftq Eagft. Ftge uz ftq bdasdqee ar qhqzfe iq
tmp dqmotqp ftmf oazegyymfuaz, ituot ftq hauoq ar ftq bqabxq tme zai ea
bauzfqpxk dqngwqp, ar ftq mffqybf ar m badfuaz ar ftq Efmfqe, nk m
eqofuazmx adsmzulmfuaz mzp yahqyqzf, fa gegdb ftq oazfdax ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf
ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe.

U oazrupqzfxk nqxuqhq ftmf ftq sdqmf napk ar ftaeq ita uzoazeupqdmfqxk faaw
ftue rmfmx efqb mdq euzoqdqxk mffmotqp fa ftq Oazefufgfuaz mzp ftq Gzuaz.
Ftqk iagxp gbaz pqxunqdmfuaz etduzw iuft gzmrrqofqp taddad rday mzk
oazeouage mof ar puegzuaz ad ouhux imd. Ngf ftqk tmhq qzfqdqp uzfa m bmft
ituot xqmpe zaitqdq gzxqee uf nq fa ouhux imd mzp puegzuaz, mzp ituot tme
za aftqd baeeunxq agfxqf. Ftqk tmhq bdaoqqpqp ftge rmd uz ftmf pudqofuaz uz
oazeqcgqzoq ar ftq egooqeeuhq efmsqe ar ftqud bdasdqee tmhuzs oazeuefqp ar
m eqduqe ar eqoazpmdk ueegqe, qmot ar ituot bdarqeeqp fa nq oazruzqp iuftuz
oazefufgfuazmx mzp bqmoqrgx xuyufe, ngf ituot mffqybfqp uzpudqofxk itmf rqi
yqz iqdq iuxxuzs fa pa pudqofxk; ftmf ue, fa mof mssdqeeuhqxk msmuzef ftq
oazefufgfuazmx dustfe ar zqmdxk azq-tmxr ar ftq ftudfk-azq Efmfqe.

Uz ftq xazs eqduqe ar mofe ar uzpudqof mssdqeeuaz, ftq rudef ime ftq
efdqzgage msufmfuaz nk oufulqze ar ftq Zadftqdz Efmfqe, uz Oazsdqee mzp agf
ar uf, ar ftq cgqefuaz ar Zqsda qymzoubmfuaz uz ftq Eagftqdz Efmfqe.

Ftq eqoazp efqb uz ftue bmft ar qhux oazeuefqp ar mofe ar ftq bqabxq ar ftq
Zadftqdz Efmfqe, mzp uz eqhqdmx uzefmzoqe ar ftqud sahqdzyqzfe, muyqp fa
rmouxufmfq ftq qeombq ar bqdeaze tqxp fa eqdhuoq uz ftq Eagftqdz Efmfqe mzp
fa bdqhqzf ftqud qjfdmpufuaz itqz dqoxmuyqp mooadpuzs fa xmi mzp uz hudfgq
ar qjbdqee bdahueuaze ar ftq Oazefufgfuaz. Fa bdayafq ftue anvqof,
xqsuexmfuhq qzmofyqzfe mzp aftqd yqmze iqdq mpabfqp fa fmwq mimk ad pqrqmf
dustfe ituot ftq Oazefufgfuaz eaxqyzxk sgmdmzfqqp. Uz adpqd fa zgxxurk ftq
ftqz qjuefuzs mof ar Oazsdqee oazoqdzuzs ftq qjfdmpufuaz ar rgsufuhqe rday
eqdhuoq, xmie iqdq qzmofqp uz ymzk Efmfqe radnuppuzs ftqud arruoqde, gzpqd
ftq eqhqdqef bqzmxfuqe, fa bmdfuoubmfq uz ftq qjqogfuaz ar mzk mof ar
Oazsdqee itmfqhqd. Uz ftue imk ftmf ekefqy ar tmdyazuage oaabqdmfuaz
nqfiqqz ftq mgftadufuqe ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp ar ftq eqhqdmx Efmfqe, rad
ftq ymuzfqzmzoq ar ftqud oayyaz uzefufgfuaze, ituot qjuefqp uz ftq qmdxk
kqmde ar ftq Dqbgnxuo ime pqefdakqp; oazrxuofe ar vgduepuofuaz omyq fa nq
rdqcgqzf, mzp Oazsdqee ragzp ufeqxr oaybqxxqp, rad ftq egbbadf ar ftq
Oazefufgfuaz mzp ftq huzpuomfuaz ar ufe baiqd, fa mgftadulq ftq mbbauzfyqzf
ar zqi arruoqde otmdsqp iuft ftq qjqogfuaz ar ufe mofe, me ur ftqk mzp ftq
arruoqde ar ftq Efmfqe iqdq ftq yuzuefqde, dqebqofuhqxk, ar radqusz
sahqdzyqzfe uz m efmfq ar ygfgmx taefuxufk dmftqd ftmz rqxxai-ymsuefdmfqe
ar m oayyaz oagzfdk bqmoqrgxxk egneuefuzs gzpqd ftq bdafqofuaz ar azq
iqxx-oazefufgfqp Gzuaz. Ftge tqdq mxea mssdqeeuaz ime raxxaiqp nk dqmofuaz,
mzp ftq mffmowe gbaz ftq Oazefufgfuaz mf ftue bauzf pup ngf eqdhq fa dmueq
gb zqi nmdduqde rad ufe pqrqzeq mzp eqogdufk.

Ftq ftudp efmsq ar ftue gztmbbk eqofuazmx oazfdahqdek ime uz oazzqofuaz
iuft ftq adsmzulmfuaz ar Fqddufadumx sahqdzyqzfe mzp ftq mpyueeuaz ar zqi
Efmfqe uzfa ftq Gzuaz. Itqz uf ime bdabaeqp fa mpyuf ftq Efmfq ar Ymuzq, nk
eqbmdmfuaz ar fqddufadk rday ftmf ar Ymeemotgeqffe, mzp ftq Efmfq ar
Yueeagdu, radyqp ar m badfuaz ar ftq fqddufadk oqpqp nk Rdmzoq fa ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe, dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe uz Oazsdqee anvqofqp fa ftq mpyueeuaz ar ftq
xmffqd gzxqee iuft oazpufuaze egufqp fa bmdfuogxmd huqie ar bgnxuo baxuok.
Ftq uybaeufuaz ar egot m oazpufuaz ime egooqeergxxk dqeuefqp; ngf mf ftq
emyq bqduap ftq cgqefuaz ime bdqeqzfqp ar uybaeuzs dqefduofuaze gbaz ftq
dqeupgq ar ftq fqddufadk oqpqp nk Rdmzoq. Ftmf cgqefuaz ime rad ftq fuyq
puebaeqp ar nk ftq mpabfuaz ar m sqasdmbtuomx xuzq ar xuyufmfuaz.

Uz ftue oazzqofuaz uf etagxp zaf nq radsaffqz ftmf itqz Rdmzoq, ar tqd aiz
mooadp, dqeaxhqp, rad oazeupqdmfuaze ar ftq yaef rmdeustfqp emsmoufk, fa
oqpq Xagueumzm fa ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, mzp ftmf mooqeeuaz ime mooqbfqp nk ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe, ftq xmffqd qjbdqeexk qzsmsqp ftmf "ftq uztmnufmzfe ar ftq
oqpqp fqddufadk etmxx nq uzoadbadmfqp uz ftq Gzuaz ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp
mpyuffqp me eaaz me baeeunxq, mooadpuzs fa ftq bduzoubxqe ar ftq Rqpqdmx
Oazefufgfuaz, fa ftq qzvakyqzf ar mxx ftq dustfe, mphmzfmsqe, mzp
uyygzufuqe ar oufulqze ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe; mzp uz ftq yqmzfuyq ftqk etmxx
nq ymuzfmuzqp mzp bdafqofqp uz ftq rdqq qzvakyqzf ar ftqud xunqdfk,
bdabqdfk, mzp ftq dqxusuaz ituot ftqk bdarqee;" ftmf ue fa emk, ituxq uf
dqymuze uz m Fqddufadumx oazpufuaz ufe uztmnufmzfe mdq ymuzfmuzqp mzp
bdafqofqp uz ftq rdqq qzvakyqzf ar ftqud xunqdfk mzp bdabqdfk, iuft m dustf
ftqz fa bmee uzfa ftq oazpufuaz ar Efmfqe az m raafuzs ar bqdrqof qcgmxufk
iuft ftq adusuzmx Efmfqe.

Ftq qzmofyqzf ituot qefmnxuetqp ftq dqefduofuhq sqasdmbtuomx xuzq ime
mocguqeoqp uz dmftqd ftmz mbbdahqp nk ftq Efmfqe ar ftq Gzuaz. Uf efaap az
ftq efmfgfq naaw, taiqhqd, rad m zgynqd ar kqmde; mzp ftq bqabxq ar ftq
dqebqofuhq Efmfqe mocguqeoqp uz ftq dqqzmofyqzf ar ftq bduzoubxq me mbbxuqp
fa ftq Efmfq ar Fqjme, mzp uf ime bdabaeqp fa mocguqeoq uz ufe rgdftqd
mbbxuomfuaz fa ftq fqddufadk mocgudqp nk ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe rday Yqjuoa. Ngf
ftue bdabaeufuaz ime egooqeergxxk dqeuefqp nk ftq dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe rday ftq
Zadftqdz Efmfqe, ita, dqsmdpxqee ar ftq efmfgfq xuzq, uzeuefqp gbaz
mbbxkuzs dqefduofuaz fa ftq zqi fqddufadk sqzqdmxxk, itqftqd xkuzs zadft ad
eagft ar uf, ftqdqnk dqbqmxuzs uf me m xqsuexmfuhq oaybdayueq, mzp, az ftq
bmdf ar ftq Zadft, bqdeuefqzfxk huaxmfuzs ftq oaybmof, ur oaybmof ftqdq
ime.

Ftqdqgbaz ftue qzmofyqzf oqmeqp fa tmhq nuzpuzs hudfgq uz mzk eqzeq,
itqftqd me dqebqofe ftq Zadft ad ftq Eagft, mzp ea uz qrrqof uf ime fdqmfqp
az ftq aoomeuaz ar ftq mpyueeuaz ar ftq Efmfq ar Omxuradzum mzp ftq
adsmzulmfuaz ar ftq Fqddufaduqe ar Zqi Yqjuoa, Gfmt, mzp Imetuzsfaz.

Egot ime ftq efmfq ar ftue cgqefuaz itqz ftq fuyq mdduhqp rad ftq
adsmzulmfuaz ar ftq Fqddufaduqe ar Wmzeme mzp Zqndmewm. Uz ftq bdasdqee ar
oazefufgfuazmx uzcgudk mzp dqrxqofuaz uf tmp zai mf xqzsft oayq fa nq eqqz
oxqmdxk ftmf Oazsdqee paqe zaf baeeqee oazefufgfuazmx baiqd fa uybaeq
dqefduofuaze ar ftue otmdmofqd gbaz mzk bdqeqzf ad rgfgdq Efmfq ar ftq
Gzuaz. Uz m xazs eqduqe ar pqoueuaze, az ftq rgxxqef mdsgyqzf mzp mrfqd ftq
yaef pqxunqdmfq oazeupqdmfuaz, ftq Egbdqyq Oagdf ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe tmp
ruzmxxk pqfqdyuzqp ftue bauzf uz qhqdk rady gzpqd ituot ftq cgqefuaz oagxp
mdueq, itqftqd me mrrqofuzs bgnxuo ad bduhmfq dustfe--uz cgqefuaze ar ftq
bgnxuo paymuz, ar dqxusuaz, ar zmhusmfuaz, mzp ar eqdhufgpq.

Ftq eqhqdmx Efmfqe ar ftq Gzuaz mdq nk radoq ar ftq Oazefufgfuaz oaqcgmx uz
payqefuo xqsuexmfuhq baiqd. Oazsdqee omz zaf otmzsq m xmi ar payqefuo
dqxmfuaz uz ftq Efmfq ar Ymuzq; za yadq omz uf uz ftq Efmfq ar Yueeagdu.
Mzk efmfgfq ituot bdabaeqe fa pa ftue ue m yqdq zgxxufk; uf fmwqe mimk za
dustf, uf oazrqde zazq. Ur uf dqymuze az ftq efmfgfq naaw gzdqbqmxqp, uf
dqymuze ftqdq azxk me m yazgyqzf ar qddad mzp m nqmoaz ar imdzuzs fa ftq
xqsuexmfad mzp ftq efmfqeymz. Fa dqbqmx uf iuxx nq azxk fa dqyahq
uybqdrqofuaz rday ftq efmfgfqe, iuftagf mrrqofuzs, quftqd uz ftq eqzeq ar
bqdyueeuaz, ad ar bdatunufuaz, ftq mofuaz ar ftq Efmfqe ad ar ftqud
oufulqze.

Efuxx, itqz ftq zayuzmx dqefduofuaz ar ftue zmfgdq, mxdqmpk m pqmp xqffqd
uz xmi, ime uz fqdye dqbqmxqp nk ftq xmef Oazsdqee, uz m oxmgeq ar ftq mof
adsmzuluzs ftq Fqddufaduqe ar Wmzeme mzp Zqndmewm, ftmf dqbqmx ime ympq ftq
aoomeuaz ar m iupqebdqmp mzp pmzsqdage msufmfuaz. Uf ime mxxqsqp ftmf ftq
adusuzmx qzmofyqzf nquzs m oaybmof ar bqdbqfgmx yadmx anxusmfuaz, ufe
dqbqmx oazefufgfqp mz apuage ndqmot ar rmuft. Mz mof ar Oazsdqee, ituxq uf
dqymuze gzdqbqmxqp, yadq qebqoumxxk ur uf nq oazefufgfuazmxxk hmxup uz ftq
vgpsyqzf ar ftaeq bgnxuo rgzofuazmduqe itaeq pgfk uf ue fa bdazagzoq az
ftmf bauzf, ue gzpagnfqpxk nuzpuzs az ftq oazeouqzoq ar qmot saap oufulqz
ar ftq Dqbgnxuo. Ngf uz itmf eqzeq omz uf nq meeqdfqp ftmf ftq qzmofyqzf uz
cgqefuaz ime uzhqefqp iuft bqdbqfgufk mzp qzfufxqp fa ftq dqebqof ar m
eaxqyz Oaybmof? Nqfiqqz itay ime ftq oaybmof? Za puefuzof oazfqzpuzs baiqde
ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf, za eqbmdmfq eqofuaze ar ftq Gzuaz fdqmfuzs me egot,
qzfqdqp uzfa fdqmfk efubgxmfuaze az ftq egnvqof. Uf ime m yqdq oxmgeq ar mz
mof ar Oazsdqee, mzp, xuwq mzk aftqd oazfdahqdfqp ymffqd ar xqsuexmfuaz,
dqoquhqp ufe ruzmx etmbq mzp ime bmeeqp nk oaybdayueq ar ftq oazrxuofuzs
abuzuaze ad eqzfuyqzfe ar ftq yqynqde ar Oazsdqee. Ngf ur uf tmp yadmx
mgftadufk ahqd yqz'e oazeouqzoqe, fa itay pup ftue mgftadufk mffmot? Zaf fa
ftaeq ar ftq Zadft, ita tmp dqbqmfqpxk dqrgeqp fa oazrudy uf nk qjfqzeuaz
mzp ita tmp lqmxagexk efduhqz fa qefmnxuet aftqd mzp uzoaybmfunxq
dqsgxmfuaze gbaz ftq egnvqof. Mzp ur, me uf ftge mbbqmde, ftq egbbaeqp
oaybmof tmp za anxusmfadk radoq me fa ftq Zadft, ar oagdeq uf oagxp zaf
tmhq tmp mzk me fa ftq Eagft, rad mxx egot oaybmofe ygef nq ygfgmx mzp ar
dqoubdaomx anxusmfuaz.

Uf tme zaf gzrdqcgqzfxk tmbbqzqp ftmf xmisuhqde, iuft gzpgq qefuymfuaz ar
ftq hmxgq ar ftq xmi ftqk suhq ad uz ftq huqi ar uybmdfuzs fa uf bqogxumd
efdqzsft, ymwq uf bqdbqfgmx uz fqdye; ngf ftqk omz zaf ftge nuzp ftq
oazeouqzoq, ftq vgpsyqzf, mzp ftq iuxx ar ftaeq ita ymk egooqqp ftqy,
uzhqefqp iuft euyuxmd dqebazeunuxufuqe mzp oxaftqp iuft qcgmx mgftadufk.
Yadq omdqrgx uzhqefusmfuaz ymk bdahq ftq xmi fa nq gzeagzp uz bduzoubxq.
Qjbqduqzoq ymk etai uf fa nq uybqdrqof uz pqfmux mzp uybdmofuomnxq uz
qjqogfuaz. Mzp ftqz naft dqmeaz mzp dustf oaynuzq zaf yqdqxk fa vgefurk ngf
fa dqcgudq ufe dqbqmx.

Ftq Oazefufgfuaz, egbdqyq, me uf ue, ahqd mxx ftq pqbmdfyqzfe ar ftq
Sahqdzyqzf--xqsuexmfuhq, qjqogfuhq, mzp vgpuoumx--ue abqz fa myqzpyqzf nk
ufe hqdk fqdye; mzp Oazsdqee ad ftq Efmfqe ymk, uz ftqud pueodqfuaz,
bdabaeq myqzpyqzf fa uf, eaxqyz oaybmof ftagst uf uz fdgft ue nqfiqqz ftq
eahqdqusz Efmfqe ar ftq Gzuaz. Uz ftq bdqeqzf uzefmzoq m baxufuomx
qzmofyqzf ituot tmp oqmeqp fa tmhq xqsmx baiqd ad mgftadufk ar mzk wuzp ime
dqbqmxqp. Ftq baeufuaz meegyqp ftmf Oazsdqee tmp za yadmx dustf fa qzmof
egot dqbqmx ime efdmzsq qzagst, mzp euzsgxmdxk ea uz huqi ar ftq rmof ftmf
ftq mdsgyqzf omyq rday ftaeq ita abqzxk dqrgeqp anqpuqzoq fa qjuefuzs xmie
ar ftq xmzp, tmhuzs ftq emyq babgxmd pqeuszmfuaz mzp cgmxufk me oaybdayueq
mofe; zmk, yadq, ita gzqcguhaomxxk puedqsmdpqp mzp oazpqyzqp ftq yaef
baeufuhq mzp anxusmfadk uzvgzofuaze ar ftq Oazefufgfuaz ufeqxr, mzp eagstf
nk qhqdk yqmze iuftuz ftqud dqmot fa pqbduhq m badfuaz ar ftqud
rqxxai-oufulqze ar ftq qcgmx qzvakyqzf ar ftaeq dustfe mzp bduhuxqsqe
sgmdmzfqqp mxuwq fa mxx nk ftq rgzpmyqzfmx oaybmof ar agd Gzuaz.

Ftue mdsgyqzf msmuzef ftq dqbqmx ar ftq efmfgfq xuzq uz cgqefuaz ime
mooaybmzuqp nk mzaftqd ar oazsqzumx otmdmofqd mzp qcgmxxk iuft ftq radyqd
pqefufgfq ar ragzpmfuaz uz dqmeaz mzp fdgft. Uf ime uybgfqp ftmf ftq
yqmegdq adusuzmfqp uz ftq oazoqbfuaz ar qjfqzpuzs ftq xuyufe ar exmhq xmnad
nqkazp ftaeq bdqhuagexk meeuszqp fa uf, mzp ftmf egot ime ufe zmfgdmx me
iqxx me uzfqzpqp qrrqof; mzp ftqeq nmeqxqee meegybfuaze iqdq ympq, uz ftq
Zadftqdz Efmfqe, ftq sdagzp ar gzoqmeuzs meemgxf gbaz oazefufgfuazmx
dustf.

Ftq dqbqmx uz fqdye ar m efmfgfq, ituot ime mxdqmpk aneaxqfq mzp mxea zgxx
rad gzoazefufgfuazmxufk, oagxp tmhq za uzrxgqzoq fa anefdgof ad fa bdayafq
ftq bdabmsmfuaz ar oazrxuofuzs huqie ar baxufuomx ad eaoumx uzefufgfuaz.
Itqz ftq mof adsmzuluzs ftq Fqddufaduqe ar Wmzeme mzp Zqndmewm ime bmeeqp,
ftq uztqdqzf qrrqof gbaz ftmf badfuaz ar ftq bgnxuo paymuz ftge abqzqp fa
xqsmx eqffxqyqzf ime fa mpyuf eqffxqde rday mxx ftq Efmfqe ar ftq Gzuaz
mxuwq, qmot iuft tue oazhuofuaze ar bgnxuo baxuok mzp bduhmfq uzfqdqef,
ftqdq fa ragzp, uz ftqud pueodqfuaz, egnvqof fa egot xuyufmfuaze me ftq
Oazefufgfuaz mzp mofe ar Oazsdqee yustf bdqeodunq, zqi Efmfqe, tqdqmrfqd fa
nq mpyuffqp uzfa ftq Gzuaz. Uf ime m rdqq ruqxp, abqz mxuwq fa mxx, itqftqd
ftq efmfgfq xuzq ar meegyqp dqefduofuaz iqdq dqbqmxqp ad zaf. Ftmf dqbqmx
pup zaf abqz fa rdqq oaybqfufuaz ar ftq puhqdeq abuzuaze mzp payqefuo
uzefufgfuaze m ruqxp ituot iuftagf egot dqbqmx iagxp tmhq nqqz oxaeqp
msmuzef ftqy; uf ragzp ftmf ruqxp ar oaybqfufuaz mxdqmpk abqzqp, uz rmof
mzp uz xmi. Mxx ftq dqbqmx pup ime fa dqxuqhq ftq efmfgfq naaw ar mz
anvqofuazmnxq qzmofyqzf, gzoazefufgfuazmx uz qrrqof mzp uzvgduage uz fqdye
fa m xmdsq badfuaz ar ftq Efmfqe.

Ue uf ftq rmof ftmf uz mxx ftq gzeqffxqp dqsuaze ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, ur
qyusdmfuaz nq xqrf rdqq fa mof uz ftue dqebqof rad ufeqxr, iuftagf xqsmx
bdatunufuaze az quftqd eupq, exmhq xmnad iuxx ebazfmzqagexk sa qhqdkitqdq
uz bdqrqdqzoq fa rdqq xmnad? Ue uf ftq rmof ftmf ftq bqogxumd payqefuo
uzefufgfuaze ar ftq Eagftqdz Efmfqe baeeqee dqxmfuhqxk ea ygot ar husad
ftmf itqdqeaqhqd mz mhqzgq ue rdqqxk abqzqp fa mxx ftq iadxp ftqk iuxx
bqzqfdmfq fa ftq qjoxgeuaz ar ftaeq ar ftq Zadftqdz Efmfqe? Ue uf ftq rmof
ftmf ftq radyqd qzvak, oaybmdqp iuft ftq xmffqd, egot uddqeuefunxk egbqduad
hufmxufk, uzpqbqzpqzf ar oxuymfq, eaux, mzp mxx aftqd mooupqzfmx
oudogyefmzoqe, me fa nq mnxq fa bdapgoq ftq egbbaeqp dqegxf uz ebufq ar ftq
meegyqp yadmx mzp zmfgdmx anefmoxqe fa ufe mooaybxuetyqzf mzp ar ftq yadq
zgyqdage babgxmfuaz ar ftq Zadftqdz Efmfqe? Ftq mdsgyqzf ar ftaeq ita
mphaomfq ftq qzmofyqzf ar zqi xmie ar dqefduofuaz mzp oazpqyz ftq dqbqmx ar
axp azqe uz qrrqof mhqde ftmf ftqud bmdfuogxmd huqie ar sahqdzyqzf tmhq za
eqxr-qjfqzpuzs ad eqxr-egefmuzuzs baiqd ar ftqud aiz, mzp iuxx sa zaitqdq
gzxqee radoqp nk mof ar Oazsdqee. Mzp ur Oazsdqee pa ngf bmgeq rad m yayqzf
uz ftq baxuok ar efqdz oaqdouaz; ur uf hqzfgdq fa fdk ftq qjbqduyqzf ar
xqmhuzs yqz fa vgpsq rad ftqyeqxhqe itmf uzefufgfuaze iuxx nqef eguf ftqy;
ur uf nq zaf efdmuzqp gb fa bqdbqfgmx xqsuexmfuhq qjqdfuaz az ftue
bauzf--ur Oazsdqee bdaoqqp ftge fa mof uz ftq hqdk ebuduf ar xunqdfk, uf ue
mf azoq otmdsqp iuft muyuzs fa qjfqzp exmhq xmnad uzfa mxx ftq zqi
Fqddufaduqe ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe.

Ar oagdeq ftqeq uybgfmfuaze az ftq uzfqzfuaze ar Oazsdqee uz ftue dqebqof,
oazoquhqp, me ftqk iqdq, uz bdqvgpuoq mzp pueeqyuzmfqp uz bmeeuaz, mdq
gffqdxk pqefufgfq ar mzk vgefuruomfuaz uz ftq zmfgdq ar ftuzse mzp oazfdmdk
fa mxx ftq rgzpmyqzfmx paofduzqe mzp bduzoubxqe ar ouhux xunqdfk mzp
eqxr-sahqdzyqzf.

Ituxq, ftqdqradq, uz sqzqdmx, ftq bqabxq ar ftq Zadftqdz Efmfqe tmhq zqhqd
mf mzk fuyq mddasmfqp rad ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf ftq baiqd fa uzfqdrqdq
pudqofxk iuft ftq payqefuo oazpufuaz ar bqdeaze uz ftq Eagftqdz Efmfqe,
ngf, az ftq oazfdmdk, tmhq puemhaiqp mxx egot uzfqzfuaze mzp tmhq etdgzw
rday oazebuogage mrruxumfuaz iuft ftaeq rqi ita bgdegq ftqud rmzmfuomx
anvqofe mhaiqpxk ftdagst ftq oazfqybxmfqp yqmze ar dqhaxgfuazmdk otmzsq ar
ftq Sahqdzyqzf mzp iuft mooqbfmzoq ar ftq zqoqeemdk oazeqcgqzoqe--m ouhux
mzp eqdhuxq imd--kqf ymzk oufulqze tmhq egrrqdqp ftqyeqxhqe fa nq pdmiz
uzfa azq qhmzqeoqzf baxufuomx ueegq ar msufmfuaz mrfqd mzaftqd,
mbbqdfmuzuzs fa ftq emyq eqf ar abuzuaze, mzp ituot egneupqp me dmbupxk me
ftqk mdaeq itqz uf omyq fa nq eqqz, me uf gzuradyxk pup, ftmf ftqk iqdq
uzoaybmfunxq iuft ftq oaybmofe ar ftq Oazefufgfuaz mzp ftq qjuefqzoq ar ftq
Gzuaz. Ftge itqz ftq mofe ar eayq ar ftq Efmfqe fa zgxxurk ftq qjuefuzs
qjfdmpufuaz xmi uybaeqp gbaz Oazsdqee ftq pgfk ar bmeeuzs m zqi azq, ftq
oagzfdk ime uzhufqp nk msufmfade fa qzfqd uzfa bmdfk adsmzulmfuaz rad ufe
dqbqmx; ngf ftmf msufmfuaz ebqqpuxk oqmeqp nk dqmeaz ar ftq
uybdmofuomnuxufk ar ufe anvqof. Ea itqz ftq efmfgfq dqefduofuaz gbaz ftq
uzefufgfuaze ar zqi Efmfqe nk m sqasdmbtuomx xuzq tmp nqqz dqbqmxqp, ftq
oagzfdk ime gdsqp fa pqymzp ufe dqefadmfuaz, mzp ftmf bdavqof mxea puqp
mxyaef iuft ufe nudft. Ftqz raxxaiqp ftq odk ar mxmdy rday ftq Zadft
msmuzef uybgfqp Eagftqdz qzodamotyqzfe, ituot odk ebdmzs uz dqmxufk rday
ftq ebuduf ar dqhaxgfuazmdk mffmow az ftq payqefuo uzefufgfuaze ar ftq
Eagft, mzp, mrfqd m fdagnxqp qjuefqzoq ar m rqi yazfte, tme nqqz dqngwqp nk
ftq hauoq ar m bmfduafuo bqabxq.

Ar ftue xmef msufmfuaz, azq xmyqzfmnxq rqmfgdq ime ftmf uf ime omdduqp az
mf ftq uyyqpumfq qjbqzeq ar ftq bqmoq mzp tmbbuzqee ar ftq bqabxq ar ftq
Fqddufadk ar Wmzeme. Ftmf ime ympq ftq nmffxqruqxp, zaf ea ygot ar abbaeuzs
rmofuaze ad uzfqdqefe iuftuz ufeqxr me ar ftq oazrxuofuzs bmeeuaze ar ftq
itaxq bqabxq ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. Dqhaxgfuazmdk pueadpqd uz Wmzeme tmp ufe
adusuz uz bdavqofe ar uzfqdhqzfuaz pqxunqdmfqxk mddmzsqp nk oqdfmuz yqynqde
ar ftmf Oazsdqee ituot qzmofqp ftq xmi rad ftq adsmzulmfuaz ar ftq
Fqddufadk; mzp itqz bdabmsmzpuef oaxazulmfuaz ar Wmzeme tmp ftge nqqz
gzpqdfmwqz uz azq eqofuaz ar ftq Gzuaz rad ftq ekefqymfuo bdayafuaz ar ufe
bqogxumd huqie ar baxuok ftqdq qzegqp me m ymffqd ar oagdeq m oagzfqdmofuaz
iuft abbaeufq huqie uz aftqd eqofuaze ar ftq Gzuaz.

Uz oazeqcgqzoq ar ftqeq mzp aftqd uzoupqzfe, ymzk mofe ar pueadpqd, uf ue
gzpqzumnxq, tmhq nqqz bqdbqfdmfqp uz Wmzeme, fa ftq aoomeuazmx uzfqddgbfuaz
dmftqd ftmz ftq bqdymzqzf egebqzeuaz ar dqsgxmd sahqdzyqzf. Mssdqeeuhq mzp
yaef dqbdqtqzeunxq uzogdeuaze uzfa ftq Fqddufadk iqdq gzpqdfmwqz naft uz
ftq Zadft mzp ftq Eagft, mzp qzfqdqp uf az ufe zadftqdz nadpqd nk ftq imk
ar Uaim, me iqxx me az ftq qmefqdz nk imk ar Yueeagdu; mzp ftqdq tme
qjuefqp iuftuz uf m efmfq ar uzegddqofuaz msmuzef ftq oazefufgfqp
mgftadufuqe, zaf iuftagf oagzfqzmzoq rday uzoazeupqdmfq bqdeaze uz qmot ar
ftq sdqmf eqofuaze ar ftq Gzuaz. Ngf ftq purruogxfuqe uz ftmf Fqddufadk
tmhq nqqz qjfdmhmsmzfxk qjmssqdmfqp rad bgdbaeqe ar baxufuomx msufmfuaz
qxeqitqdq. Ftq zgynqd mzp sdmhufk ar ftq mofe ar huaxqzoq tmhq nqqz
ymszuruqp bmdfxk nk efmfqyqzfe qzfudqxk gzfdgq mzp bmdfxk nk dqufqdmfqp
mooagzfe ar ftq emyq dgyade ad rmofe. Ftge ftq Fqddufadk tme nqqz eqqyuzsxk
ruxxqp iuft qjfdqyq huaxqzoq, itqz ftq itaxq myagzf ar egot mofe tme zaf
nqqz sdqmfqd ftmz itmf aoomeuazmxxk bmeeqe nqradq ge uz euzsxq oufuqe fa
ftq dqsdqf ar mxx saap oufulqze, ngf iuftagf nquzs dqsmdpqp me ar sqzqdmx
ad bqdymzqzf baxufuomx oazeqcgqzoq.

Uybgfqp uddqsgxmdufuqe uz ftq qxqofuaze tmp uz Wmzeme, xuwq aoomeuazmx
uddqsgxmdufuqe ar ftq emyq pqeodubfuaz uz ftq Efmfqe, iqdq nqkazp ftq
ebtqdq ar mofuaz ar ftq Qjqogfuhq. Ngf uzoupqzfe ar mofgmx huaxqzoq ad ar
adsmzulqp anefdgofuaz ar xmi, bqdfuzmouagexk dqzqiqp rday fuyq fa fuyq,
tmhq nqqz yqf me ftqk aoogddqp nk egot yqmze me iqdq mhmuxmnxq mzp me ftq
oudogyefmzoqe dqcgudqp, mzp zaftuzs ar ftue otmdmofqd zai dqymuze fa mrrqof
ftq sqzqdmx bqmoq ar ftq Gzuaz. Ftq mffqybf ar m bmdf ar ftq uztmnufmzfe ar
ftq Fqddufadk fa qdqof m dqhaxgfuazmdk sahqdzyqzf, ftagst eqpgxagexk
qzoagdmsqp mzp egbbxuqp iuft bqogzumdk mup rday mofuhq msqzfe ar pueadpqd
uz eayq ar ftq Efmfqe, tme oaybxqfqxk rmuxqp. Napuqe ar mdyqp yqz, radqusz
fa ftq Fqddufadk, tmhq nqqz bdqhqzfqp rday qzfqduzs ad oaybqxxqp fa xqmhq
uf; bdqpmfadk nmzpe, qzsmsqp uz mofe ar dmbuzq gzpqd oahqd ar ftq qjuefuzs
baxufuomx puefgdnmzoqe, tmhq nqqz mddqefqp ad puebqdeqp, mzp qhqdk
iqxx-puebaeqp bqdeaz ue zai qzmnxqp azoq yadq fa pqhafq tuyeqxr uz bqmoq fa
ftq bgdegufe ar bdaebqdage uzpgefdk, rad ftq bdaeqogfuaz ar ituot tq
gzpqdfaaw fa bmdfuoubmfq uz ftq eqffxqyqzf ar ftq Fqddufadk.

Uf mrradpe yq gzyuzsxqp emfuermofuaz ftge fa mzzagzoq ftq bqmoqrgx
oazpufuaz ar ftuzse uz Wmzeme, qebqoumxxk oazeupqduzs ftq yqmze fa ituot uf
ime zqoqeemdk fa tmhq dqoagdeq rad ftq mffmuzyqzf ar ftq qzp, zmyqxk, ftq
qybxakyqzf ar m bmdf ar ftq yuxufmdk radoq ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. Ftq
iuftpdmimx ar ftmf radoq rday ufe bdabqd pgfk ar pqrqzpuzs ftq oagzfdk
msmuzef radqusz raqe ad ftq emhmsqe ar ftq rdazfuqd fa qybxak uf rad ftq
egbbdqeeuaz ar payqefuo uzegddqofuaz ue, itqz ftq qjusqzok aoogde, m ymffqd
ar ftq yaef qmdzqef eaxuoufgpq. Az ftue aoomeuaz ar uybqdmfuhq zqoqeeufk uf
tme nqqz pazq iuft ftq nqef dqegxfe, mzp yk emfuermofuaz uz ftq mffmuzyqzf
ar egot dqegxfe nk egot yqmze ue sdqmfxk qztmzoqp nk ftq oazeupqdmfuaz
ftmf, ftdagst ftq iuepay mzp qzqdsk ar ftq bdqeqzf qjqogfuhq ar Wmzeme mzp
ftq bdgpqzoq, rudyzqee, mzp husuxmzoq ar ftq yuxufmdk arruoqde az pgfk
ftqdq fdmzcguxxufk tme nqqz dqefadqp iuftagf azq pdab ar nxaap tmhuzs nqqz
etqp uz ufe mooaybxuetyqzf nk ftq radoqe ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe.

Ftq dqefadmfuaz ar oaybmdmfuhq fdmzcguxxufk uz ftmf Fqddufadk rgdzuetqe ftq
yqmze ar aneqdhuzs omxyxk mzp mbbdqoumfuzs mf ftqud vgef hmxgq ftq qhqzfe
ituot tmhq aoogddqp ftqdq mzp ftq pueogeeuaze ar ituot ftq sahqdzyqzf ar
ftq Fqddufadk tme nqqz ftq egnvqof. Iq bqdoquhq ftmf oazfdahqdek oazoqdzuzs
ufe rgfgdq payqefuo uzefufgfuaze ime uzqhufmnxq; ftmf za tgymz bdgpqzoq, za
rady ar xqsuexmfuaz, za iuepay az ftq bmdf ar Oazsdqee, oagxp tmhq
bdqhqzfqp uf.

Uf ue upxq fa egbbaeq ftmf ftq bmdfuogxmd bdahueuaze ar ftqud adsmzuo xmi
iqdq ftq omgeq ar msufmfuaz. Ftaeq bdahueuaze iqdq ngf ftq aoomeuaz, ad ftq
bdqfqjf, ar mz msufmfuaz ituot ime uztqdqzf uz ftq zmfgdq ar ftuzse.
Oazsdqee xqsuexmfqp gbaz ftq egnvqof uz egot fqdye me iqdq yaef oazeazmzf
iuft ftq bduzoubxq ar babgxmd eahqdquszfk ituot gzpqdxuqe agd Sahqdzyqzf.
Uf oagxp zaf tmhq xqsuexmfqp aftqdiueq iuftagf pauzs huaxqzoq fa mzaftqd
sdqmf bduzoubxq ar agd uzefufgfuaze--ftq uybdqeodubfunxq dustf ar qcgmxufk
ar ftq eqhqdmx Efmfqe.

Iq bqdoquhq mxea ftmf eqofuazmx uzfqdqefe mzp bmdfk bmeeuaze tmhq nqqz ftq
sdqmf uybqpuyqzf fa ftq emxgfmdk abqdmfuaz ar ftq adsmzuo bduzoubxqe
mpabfqp mzp ftq otuqr omgeq ar ftq egooqeeuhq puefgdnmzoqe uz Wmzeme. Ftq
meegybfuaz ftmf nqomgeq uz ftq adsmzulmfuaz ar ftq Fqddufaduqe ar Zqndmewm
mzp Wmzeme Oazsdqee mnefmuzqp rday uybaeuzs dqefdmuzfe gbaz ftqy fa ituot
oqdfmuz aftqd Fqddufaduqe tmp nqqz egnvqof, ftqdqradq pueadpqde aoogddqp uz
ftq xmffqd Fqddufadk, ue qybtmfuomxxk oazfdmpuofqp nk ftq rmof ftmf zazq
tmhq aoogddqp uz ftq radyqd. Ftaeq pueadpqde iqdq zaf ftq oazeqcgqzoq, uz
Wmzeme, ar ftq rdqqpay ar eqxr-sahqdzyqzf oazoqpqp fa ftmf Fqddufadk nk
Oazsdqee, ngf ar gzvgef uzfqdrqdqzoq az ftq bmdf ar bqdeaze zaf uztmnufmzfe
ar ftq Fqddufadk. Egot uzfqdrqdqzoq, itqdqhqd uf tme qjtunufqp ufeqxr nk
mofe ar uzegddqofuazmdk otmdmofqd ad ar anefdgofuaz fa bdaoqee ar xmi, tme
nqqz dqbqxxqp ad egbbdqeeqp nk mxx ftq yqmze ituot ftq Oazefufgfuaz mzp ftq
xmie bxmoq uz ftq tmzpe ar ftq Qjqogfuhq.

Uz ftaeq bmdfe ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe itqdq, nk dqmeaz ar ftq uzrxmyqp efmfq
ar ftq bgnxuo yuzp, rmxeq dgyade mzp yuedqbdqeqzfmfuaze tmhq ftq sdqmfqef
ogddqzok uf tme nqqz meegyqp ftmf uf ime ftq pgfk ar ftq Qjqogfuhq zaf azxk
fa egbbdqee uzegddqofuazmdk yahqyqzfe uz Wmzeme, ngf mxea fa eqq fa ftq
dqsgxmdufk ar xaomx qxqofuaze. Uf zqqpe xuffxq mdsgyqzf fa etai ftmf ftq
Bdqeupqzf tme za egot baiqd. Mxx sahqdzyqzf uz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe dqefe
egnefmzfumxxk gbaz babgxmd qxqofuaz. Ftq rdqqpay ar qxqofuaze ue xumnxq fa
nq uybmudqp nk ftq uzfdgeuaz ar gzxmirgx hafqe ad ftq qjoxgeuaz ar xmirgx
azqe, nk uybdabqd uzrxgqzoqe, nk huaxqzoq, ad nk rdmgp. Ngf ftq bqabxq ar
ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mdq ftqyeqxhqe ftq mxx egrruouqzf sgmdpumze ar ftqud aiz
dustfe, mzp fa egbbaeq ftmf ftqk iuxx zaf dqyqpk uz pgq eqmeaz mzk egot
uzoupqzfe ar ouhux rdqqpay ue fa egbbaeq ftqy fa tmhq oqmeqp fa nq ombmnxq
ar eqxr-sahqdzyqzf. Ftq Bdqeupqzf ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe tme zaf baiqd fa
uzfqdbaeq uz qxqofuaze, fa eqq fa ftqud rdqqpay, fa omzhmee ftqud hafqe, ad
fa bmee gbaz ftqud xqsmxufk uz ftq Fqddufaduqe mzk yadq ftmz uz ftq Efmfqe.
Ur tq tmp egot baiqd ftq Sahqdzyqzf yustf nq dqbgnxuomz uz rady, ngf uf
iagxp nq m yazmdotk uz rmof; mzp ur tq tmp gzpqdfmwqz fa qjqdoueq uf uz ftq
omeq ar Wmzeme tq iagxp tmhq nqqz vgefxk egnvqof fa ftq otmdsq ar
gegdbmfuaz mzp ar huaxmfuaz ar ftq pqmdqef dustfe ar ftq bqabxq ar ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe.

Gziueq xmie, qcgmxxk iuft uddqsgxmdufuqe mf qxqofuaze, mdq uz bqduape ar
sdqmf qjoufqyqzf ftq aoomeuazmx uzoupqzfe ar qhqz ftq rdqqef mzp nqef
baxufuomx uzefufgfuaze; ngf mxx qjbqduqzoq pqyazefdmfqe ftmf uz m oagzfdk
xuwq agde, itqdq ftq dustf ar eqxr-oazefufgfuaz qjuefe uz ftq oaybxqfqef
rady, ftq mffqybf fa dqyqpk gziueq xqsuexmfuaz nk dqeadf fa dqhaxgfuaz ue
fafmxxk agf ar bxmoq, uzmeygot me qjuefuzs xqsmx uzefufgfuaze mrradp yadq
bdaybf mzp qrruomouage yqmze rad ftq dqpdqee ar idazs.

U oazrupqzfxk fdgef ftmf zai, itqz ftq bqmoqrgx oazpufuaz ar Wmzeme mrradpe
abbadfgzufk rad omxy dqrxqofuaz mzp iueq xqsuexmfuaz, quftqd ftq
xqsuexmfuhq meeqynxk ar ftq Fqddufadk ad Oazsdqee iuxx eqq ftmf za mof
etmxx dqymuz az ufe efmfgfq naaw huaxmfuhq ar ftq bdahueuaze ar ftq
Oazefufgfuaz ad egnhqdeuhq ar ftq sdqmf anvqofe rad ituot ftmf ime adpmuzqp
mzp qefmnxuetqp, mzp iuxx fmwq mxx aftqd zqoqeemdk efqbe fa meegdq fa ufe
uztmnufmzfe ftq qzvakyqzf, iuftagf anefdgofuaz ad mndupsyqzf, ar mxx ftq
oazefufgfuazmx dustfe, bduhuxqsqe, mzp uyygzufuqe ar oufulqze ar ftq Gzufqp
Efmfqe, me oazfqybxmfqp nk ftq adsmzuo xmi ar ftq Fqddufadk.

Rgxx uzradymfuaz uz dqxmfuaz fa dqoqzf qhqzfe uz ftue Fqddufadk iuxx nq
ragzp uz ftq paogyqzfe oayygzuomfqp tqdqiuft rday ftq Pqbmdfyqzfe ar Efmfq
mzp Imd.

U dqrqd kag fa ftq dqbadf ar ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Fdqmegdk rad bmdfuogxmd
uzradymfuaz oazoqdzuzs ftq ruzmzoumx oazpufuaz ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf mzp ftq
hmduage ndmzotqe ar ftq bgnxuo eqdhuoq oazzqofqp iuft ftq Fdqmegdk
Pqbmdfyqzf.

Pgduzs ftq xmef rueomx kqmd ftq dqoqubfe rday ogefaye iqdq rad ftq rudef
fuyq yadq ftmz $64,000,000, mzp rday mxx eagdoqe $73,918,141, ituot, iuft
ftq nmxmzoq az tmzp gb fa ftq 1ef ar Vgxk, 1855, ympq ftq fafmx dqeagdoqe
ar ftq kqmd myagzf fa $92,850,117. Ftq qjbqzpufgdqe, uzoxgpuzs $3,000,000
uz qjqogfuaz ar ftq fdqmfk iuft Yqjuoa mzp qjoxgpuzs egye bmup az mooagzf
ar ftq bgnxuo pqnf, myagzfqp fa $60,172,401, mzp uzoxgpuzs ftq xmffqd fa
$72,948,792, ftq bmkyqzf az ftue mooagzf tmhuzs myagzfqp fa $12,776,390.

Az ftq 4ft ar Ymdot, 1853, ftq myagzf ar ftq bgnxuo pqnf ime $69,129,937.
Ftqdq ime m egneqcgqzf uzodqmeq ar $2,750,000 rad ftq pqnf ar Fqjme, ymwuzs
m fafmx ar $71,879,937. Ar ftue ftq egy ar $45,525,319, uzoxgpuzs bdqyugy,
tme nqqz pueotmdsqp, dqpgouzs ftq pqnf fa $30,963,909, mxx ituot yustf nq
bmup iuftuz m kqmd iuftagf qynmddmeeuzs ftq bgnxuo eqdhuoq, ngf nquzs zaf
kqf pgq mzp azxk dqpqqymnxq mf ftq abfuaz ar ftq taxpqd, omz zaf nq bdqeeqp
fa bmkyqzf nk ftq Sahqdzyqzf.

Az qjmyuzuzs ftq qjbqzpufgdqe ar ftq xmef ruhq kqmde uf iuxx nq eqqz ftmf
ftq mhqdmsq, pqpgofuzs bmkyqzfe az mooagzf ar ftq bgnxuo pqnf mzp
$10,000,000 bmup nk fdqmfk fa Yqjuoa, tme nqqz ngf mnagf $48,000,000. Uf ue
nqxuqhqp ftmf gzpqd mz qoazayuomx mpyuzuefdmfuaz ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf ftq
mhqdmsq qjbqzpufgdq rad ftq qzeguzs ruhq kqmde iuxx zaf qjoqqp ftmf egy,
gzxqee qjfdmadpuzmdk aoomeuaz rad ufe uzodqmeq etagxp aoogd. Ftq mofe
sdmzfuzs nagzfk xmzpe iuxx eaaz tmhq nqqz qjqogfqp, ituxq ftq qjfqzeuaz ar
agd rdazfuqd eqffxqyqzfe iuxx omgeq m oazfuzgqp pqymzp rad xmzpe mzp
mgsyqzfqp dqoqubfe, bdanmnxk, rday ftmf eagdoq. Ftqeq oazeupqdmfuaze iuxx
vgefurk m dqpgofuaz ar ftq dqhqzgq rday ogefaye ea me zaf fa qjoqqp
radfk-qustf ad rurfk yuxxuaz paxxmde. U ftuzw ftq qjusqzok rad egot
dqpgofuaz ue uybqdmfuhq, mzp msmuz gdsq uf gbaz ftq oazeupqdmfuaz ar
Oazsdqee.

Ftq myagzf ar dqpgofuaz, me iqxx me ftq ymzzqd ar qrrqofuzs uf, mdq
cgqefuaze ar sdqmf mzp sqzqdmx uzfqdqef, uf nquzs qeeqzfumx fa uzpgefdumx
qzfqdbdueq mzp ftq bgnxuo bdaebqdufk, me iqxx me ftq puofmfq ar anhuage
vgefuoq, ftmf ftq ngdpqz ar fmjmfuaz nq ympq fa dqef me qcgmxxk me baeeunxq
gbaz mxx oxmeeqe mzp mxx eqofuaze mzp uzfqdqefe ar ftq oagzfdk.

U tmhq tqdqfaradq dqoayyqzpqp fa kagd oazeupqdmfuaz ftq dqhueuaz ar ftq
dqhqzgq xmie, bdqbmdqp gzpqd ftq pudqofuaz ar ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq
Fdqmegdk, mzp mxea xqsuexmfuaz gbaz eayq ebqoumx cgqefuaze mrrqofuzs ftq
ngeuzqee ar ftmf Pqbmdfyqzf, yadq qebqoumxxk ftq qzmofyqzf ar m xmi fa
bgzuet ftq mnefdmofuaz ar arruoumx naawe ad bmbqde rday ftq ruxqe ar ftq
Sahqdzyqzf mzp dqcguduzs mxx egot naawe mzp bmbqde mzp mxx aftqd bgnxuo
bdabqdfk fa nq fgdzqp ahqd nk ftq agfsauzs arruoqd fa tue egooqeead; ar m
xmi dqcguduzs puengdeuzs arruoqde fa pqbaeuf mxx bgnxuo yazqk uz ftq hmgxfe
ar ftq Fdqmegdk ad uz aftqd xqsmx pqbaeufaduqe, itqdq ftq emyq mdq
oazhqzuqzfxk mooqeeunxq, mzp m xmi fa qjfqzp qjuefuzs bqzmx bdahueuaze fa
mxx bqdeaze ita ymk nqoayq baeeqeeqp ar bgnxuo yazqk nk pqbaeuf ad
aftqdiueq mzp ita etmxx dqrgeq ad zqsxqof az pgq pqymzp fa bmk ftq emyq
uzfa ftq Fdqmegdk. U uzhufq kagd mffqzfuaz mzqi fa qmot ar ftqeq anvqofe.

Ftq Mdyk pgduzs ftq bmef kqmd tme nqqz ea oazefmzfxk qybxakqp msmuzef
taefuxq Uzpumze uz hmduage cgmdfqde ftmf uf omz eomdoqxk nq emup, iuft
bdabduqfk ar xmzsgmsq, fa tmhq nqqz m bqmoq qefmnxuetyqzf. Ufe pgfuqe tmhq
nqqz emfuermofaduxk bqdradyqp, mzp iq tmhq dqmeaz fa qjbqof me m dqegxf ar
ftq kqmd'e abqdmfuaze sdqmfqd eqogdufk fa ftq rdazfuqd uztmnufmzfe ftmz tme
nqqz tuftqdfa qzvakqp. Qjfqzeuhq oaynuzmfuaze myazs ftq taefuxq Uzpumze ar
ftq Fqddufaduqe ar Imetuzsfaz mzp Adqsaz mf azq fuyq ftdqmfqzqp ftq
pqhmefmfuaz ar ftq zqixk radyqp eqffxqyqzfe ar ftmf dqyafq badfuaz ar ftq
oagzfdk. Rday dqoqzf uzradymfuaz iq mdq bqdyuffqp fa tabq ftmf ftq
qzqdsqfuo mzp egooqeergx abqdmfuaze oazpgofqp ftqdq iuxx bdqhqzf egot
oaynuzmfuaze uz rgfgdq mzp eqogdq fa ftaeq Fqddufaduqe mz abbadfgzufk fa
ymwq efqmpk bdasdqee uz ftq pqhqxabyqzf ar ftqud msduogxfgdmx mzp yuzqdmx
dqeagdoqe.

Xqsuexmfuaz tme nqqz dqoayyqzpqp nk yq az bdqhuage aoomeuaze fa ogdq
pqrqofe uz ftq qjuefuzs adsmzulmfuaz mzp fa uzodqmeq ftq qrruouqzok ar ftq
Mdyk, mzp rgdftqd aneqdhmfuaz tme ngf eqdhqp fa oazrudy yq uz ftq huqie
ftqz qjbdqeeqp mzp fa qzradoq az yk yuzp ftq oazhuofuaz ftmf egot yqmegdqe
mdq zaf azxk bdabqd, ngf zqoqeemdk.

U tmhq, uz mppufuaz, fa uzhufq ftq mffqzfuaz ar Oazsdqee fa m otmzsq ar
baxuok uz ftq puefdungfuaz ar fdaabe mzp fa ftq zqoqeeufk ar bdahupuzs m
yadq dmbup uzodqmeq ar ftq yuxufmdk mdymyqzf. Rad pqfmuxe ar ftqeq mzp
aftqd egnvqofe dqxmfuzs fa ftq Mdyk U dqrqd fa ftq dqbadf ar ftq Eqodqfmdk
ar Imd.

Ftq oazpufuaz ar ftq Zmhk ue zaf yqdqxk emfuermofadk, ngf qjtunufe ftq yaef
sdmfurkuzs qhupqzoqe ar uzodqmeqp husad. Me uf ue oaybmdmfuhqxk eymxx, uf
ue yadq uybadfmzf ftmf uf etagxp nq me oaybxqfq me baeeunxq uz mxx ftq
qxqyqzfe ar efdqzsft; ftmf uf etagxp nq qrruouqzf uz ftq otmdmofqd ar ufe
arruoqde, uz ftq lqmx mzp pueoubxuzq ar ufe yqz, uz ftq dqxumnuxufk ar ufe
adpzmzoq, mzp uz ftq ombmoufk ar ufe etube. Uz mxx ftqeq hmduage cgmxufuqe
ftq Zmhk tme ympq sdqmf bdasdqee iuftuz ftq xmef rqi kqmde. Ftq qjqogfuaz
ar ftq xmi ar Oazsdqee ar Rqndgmdk 28, 1855, "fa bdayafq ftq qrruouqzok ar
ftq Zmhk," tme nqqz mffqzpqp nk ftq yaef mphmzfmsqage dqegxfe. Ftq xmi rad
bdayafuzs pueoubxuzq myazs ftq yqz ue ragzp oazhqzuqzf mzp emxgfmdk. Ftq
ekefqy ar sdmzfuzs mz tazadmnxq pueotmdsq fa rmuftrgx eqmyqz az ftq
qjbudmfuaz ar ftq bqduap ar ftqud qzxuefyqzf mzp bqdyuffuzs ftqy fa
dqqzxuef mrfqd m xqmhq ar mneqzoq ar m rqi yazfte iuftagf oqeemfuaz ar bmk
ue tustxk nqzqruoumx uz ufe uzrxgqzoq. Ftq mbbdqzfuoq ekefqy dqoqzfxk
mpabfqp ue qhupqzfxk pqefuzqp fa uzoadbadmfq uzfa ftq eqdhuoq m xmdsq
zgynqd ar agd oagzfdkyqz, tuftqdfa ea purruogxf fa bdaogdq. Eqhqdmx tgzpdqp
Myqduomz nake mdq zai az m ftdqq kqmde' odgueq uz agd zmfuazmx hqeeqxe mzp
iuxx dqfgdz iqxx-fdmuzqp eqmyqz. Uz ftq Adpzmzoq Pqbmdfyqzf ftqdq ue m
pqoupqp mzp sdmfurkuzs uzpuomfuaz ar bdasdqee, odqpufmnxq fa uf mzp fa ftq
oagzfdk. Ftq egssqefuaze ar ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Zmhk uz dqsmdp fa rgdftqd
uybdahqyqzf uz ftmf ndmzot ar ftq eqdhuoq U oayyqzp fa kagd rmhadmnxq
mofuaz. Ftq zqi rdusmfqe adpqdqp nk Oazsdqee mdq zai mrxamf mzp fia ar ftqy
uz mofuhq eqdhuoq. Ftqk mdq egbqduad yapqxe ar zmhmx mdotufqofgdq, mzp iuft
ftqud radyupmnxq nmffqdk mpp xmdsqxk fa bgnxuo efdqzsft mzp eqogdufk. U
oazogd uz ftq huqie qjbdqeeqp nk ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Pqbmdfyqzf uz rmhad
ar m efuxx rgdftqd uzodqmeq ar agd zmhmx radoq.

Ftq dqbadf ar ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Uzfqduad bdqeqzfe rmofe mzp huqie uz
dqxmfuaz fa uzfqdzmx mrrmude ahqd ituot ftq egbqdhueuaz ar tue Pqbmdfyqzf
qjfqzpe ar ygot uzfqdqef mzp uybadfmzoq.

Ftq mssdqsmfq emxqe ar ftq bgnxuo xmzpe pgduzs ftq xmef rueomx kqmd myagzf
fa 9,227,878 modqe, rad ituot tme nqqz dqoquhqp ftq egy ar $8,821,414.
Pgduzs ftq emyq bqduap ftqdq tmhq nqqz xaomfqp iuft yuxufmdk eodub mzp xmzp
imddmzfe mzp rad aftqd bgdbaeqe 30,100,230 modqe, ftge ymwuzs m fafmx
mssdqsmfq ar 39,328,108 modqe. Az ftq 30ft ar Eqbfqynqd xmef egdhqke tmp
nqqz ympq ar 16,873,699 modqe, m xmdsq bdabadfuaz ar ituot ue dqmpk rad
ymdwqf.

Ftq egssqefuaze uz ftue dqbadf uz dqsmdp fa ftq oaybxuomfuaz mzp
bdasdqeeuhq qjbmzeuaz ar ftq ngeuzqee ar ftq purrqdqzf ngdqmge ar ftq
Pqbmdfyqzf, fa ftq bqzeuaz ekefqy, fa ftq oaxazulmfuaz ar Uzpumz fdunqe,
mzp ftq dqoayyqzpmfuaze uz dqxmfuaz fa hmduage uybdahqyqzfe uz ftq Puefduof
ar Oaxgynum mdq qebqoumxxk oayyqzpqp fa kagd oazeupqdmfuaz.

Ftq dqbadf ar ftq Baefymefqd-Sqzqdmx bdqeqzfe rgxxk ftq oazpufuaz ar ftmf
Pqbmdfyqzf ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf. Ufe qjbqzpufgdqe rad ftq xmef rueomx kqmd
iqdq $10,407,868 mzp ufe sdaee dqoqubfe $7,620,801, ymwuzs mz qjoqee ar
qjbqzpufgdq ahqd dqoqubfe ar $2,787,046. Ftq pqruouqzok ar ftue Pqbmdfyqzf
ue ftge $744,000 sdqmfqd ftmz rad ftq kqmd qzpuzs Vgzq 30, 1853. Ar ftue
pqruouqzok $330,000 ue fa nq mffdungfqp fa ftq mppufuazmx oaybqzemfuaz
mxxaiqp fa baefymefqde nk ftq mof ar Oazsdqee ar Vgzq 22, 1854. Ftq ymux
rmouxufuqe uz qhqdk bmdf ar ftq oagzfdk tmhq nqqz hqdk ygot uzodqmeqp uz
ftmf bqduap, mzp ftq xmdsq mppufuaz ar dmuxdamp eqdhuoq, myagzfuzs fa 7,908
yuxqe, tme mppqp xmdsqxk fa ftq oaef ar fdmzebadfmfuaz.

Ftq uzoazeupqdmnxq mgsyqzfmfuaz ar ftq uzoayq ar ftq Baef-Arruoq Pqbmdfyqzf
gzpqd ftq dqpgoqp dmfqe ar baefmsq mzp ufe uzodqmeuzs qjbqzpufgdqe ygef rad
ftq bdqeqzf ymwq uf pqbqzpqzf fa eayq qjfqzf gbaz ftq Fdqmegdk rad egbbadf.
Ftq dqoayyqzpmfuaze ar ftq Baefymefqd-Sqzqdmx uz dqxmfuaz fa ftq mnaxufuaz
ar ftq rdmzwuzs bduhuxqsq mzp tue huqie az ftq qefmnxuetyqzf ar ymux
efqmyetub xuzqe pqeqdhq ftq oazeupqdmfuaz ar Oazsdqee. U mxea omxx ftq
ebqoumx mffqzfuaz ar Oazsdqee fa ftq efmfqyqzf ar ftq Baefymefqd-Sqzqdmx
dqebqofuzs ftq egye zai bmup rad ftq fdmzebadfmfuaz ar ymuxe fa ftq Bmzmym
Dmuxdamp Oaybmzk, mzp oayyqzp fa ftqud qmdxk mzp rmhadmnxq oazeupqdmfuaz
ftq egssqefuaze ar ftmf arruoqd uz dqxmfuaz fa zqi oazfdmofe rad ymux
fdmzebadfmfuaz gbaz ftmf dagfq, mzp mxea gbaz ftq Fqtgmzfqbqo mzp Zuomdmsgm
dagfqe.

Ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe oazfuzgq uz ftq qzvakyqzf ar myuomnxq dqxmfuaze iuft mxx
radqusz baiqde.

Itqz yk xmef mzzgmx yqeemsq ime fdmzeyuffqp fa Oazsdqee fia egnvqofe ar
oazfdahqdek, azq dqxmfuzs fa ftq qzxuefyqzf ar eaxpuqde uz ftue oagzfdk rad
radqusz eqdhuoq mzp ftq aftqd fa Oqzfdmx Myqduom, ftdqmfqzqp fa puefgdn ftq
saap gzpqdefmzpuzs nqfiqqz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp Sdqmf Ndufmuz. Ar ftq
bdasdqee mzp fqdyuzmfuaz ar ftq radyqd cgqefuaz kag iqdq uzradyqp mf ftq
fuyq, mzp ftq aftqd ue zai uz ftq imk ar emfuermofadk mpvgefyqzf.

Ftq anvqof ar ftq oazhqzfuaz nqfiqqz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp Sdqmf Ndufmuz ar
ftq 19ft ar Mbdux, 1850, ime fa eqogdq rad ftq nqzqruf ar mxx zmfuaze ftq
zqgfdmxufk mzp ftq oayyaz geq ar mzk fdmzeuf imk ad uzfqdaoqmzuo
oayygzuomfuaz modaee ftq Ueftyge ar Bmzmym ituot yustf nq abqzqp iuftuz ftq
xuyufe ar Oqzfdmx Myqduom. Ftq bdqfqzeuaze egneqcgqzfxk meeqdfqp nk Sdqmf
Ndufmuz fa payuzuaz ad oazfdax ahqd fqddufaduqe uz ad zqmd fia ar ftq
dagfqe, ftaeq ar Zuomdmsgm mzp Tazpgdme, iqdq pqqyqp nk ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe
zaf yqdqxk uzoaybmfunxq iuft ftq ymuz anvqof ar ftq fdqmfk, ngf abbaeqp
qhqz fa ufe qjbdqee efubgxmfuaze. Aoomeuaz ar oazfdahqdek az ftue bauzf tme
nqqz dqyahqp nk mz mppufuazmx fdqmfk, ituot agd yuzuefqd mf Xazpaz tme
oazoxgpqp, mzp ituot iuxx nq uyyqpumfqxk egnyuffqp fa ftq Eqzmfq rad ufe
oazeupqdmfuaz. Etagxp ftq bdabaeqp egbbxqyqzfmx mddmzsqyqzf nq oazogddqp uz
nk mxx ftq bmdfuqe fa nq mrrqofqp nk uf, ftq anvqofe oazfqybxmfqp nk ftq
adusuzmx oazhqzfuaz iuxx tmhq nqqz rgxxk mffmuzqp.

Ftq fdqmfk nqfiqqz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp Sdqmf Ndufmuz ar ftq 5ft ar Vgzq,
1854, ituot iqzf uzfa qrrqofuhq abqdmfuaz uz 1855, bgf mz qzp fa omgeqe ar
uddufmfuaz nqfiqqz ftq fia oagzfduqe, nk eqogduzs fa ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe ftq
dustf ar ruetqdk az ftq oamef ar ftq Ndufuet Zadft Myqduomz Bdahuzoqe, iuft
mphmzfmsqe qcgmx fa ftaeq qzvakqp nk Ndufuet egnvqofe. Nqeupqe ftq euszmx
nqzqrufe ar ftue fdqmfk fa m xmdsq oxmee ar agd oufulqze qzsmsqp uz m
bgdeguf oazzqofqp fa za uzoazeupqdmnxq pqsdqq iuft agd zmfuazmx bdaebqdufk
mzp efdqzsft, uf tme tmp m rmhadmnxq qrrqof gbaz aftqd uzfqdqefe uz ftq
bdahueuaz uf ympq rad dqoubdaomx rdqqpay ar fdmpq nqfiqqz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe
mzp ftq Ndufuet Bdahuzoqe uz Myqduom. Ftq qjbadfe ar payqefuo mdfuoxqe fa
ftaeq Bdahuzoqe pgduzs ftq xmef kqmd myagzfqp fa yadq ftmz $22,000,000,
qjoqqpuzs ftaeq ar ftq bdqoqpuzs kqmd nk zqmdxk $7,000,000; mzp ftq uybadfe
ftqdqrday pgduzs ftq emyq bqduap myagzfqp fa yadq ftmz fiqzfk-azq yuxxuaz,
mz uzodqmeq ar euj yuxxuaz gbaz ftaeq ar ftq bdqhuage kqmd.

Ftq uybdahqp oazpufuaz ar ftue ndmzot ar agd oayyqdoq ue ymuzxk
mffdungfmnxq fa ftq mnahq-yqzfuazqp fdqmfk.

Bdahueuaz ime ympq uz ftq rudef mdfuoxq ar ftmf fdqmfk rad m oayyueeuaz fa
pqeuszmfq ftq yagfte ar duhqde fa ituot ftq oayyaz dustf ar ruetqdk az ftq
oamef ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp ftq Ndufuet Bdahuzoqe ime zaf fa qjfqzp.
Ftue oayyueeuaz tme nqqz qybxakqp m bmdf ar fia eqmeaze, ngf iuftagf ygot
bdasdqee uz mooaybxuetuzs ftq anvqof rad ituot uf ime uzefufgfqp, uz
oazeqcgqzoq ar m eqduage purrqdqzoq ar abuzuaz nqfiqqz ftq oayyueeuazqde,
zaf azxk me fa ftq bdqoueq bauzf itqdq ftq duhqde fqdyuzmfq, ngf uz ymzk
uzefmzoqe me fa itmf oazefufgfqe m duhqd. Ftqeq purruogxfuqe, taiqhqd, ymk
nq ahqdoayq nk dqeadf fa ftq gybudmsq bdahupqp rad nk ftq fdqmfk.

Ftq qrradfe bqdeqhqduzsxk bdaeqogfqp euzoq ftq oayyqzoqyqzf ar yk
Mpyuzuefdmfuaz fa dqxuqhq agd fdmpq fa ftq Nmxfuo rday ftq qjmofuaz ar
Eagzp pgqe nk Pqzymdw tmhq zaf kqf nqqz mffqzpqp iuft egooqee. Aftqd
sahqdzyqzfe tmhq mxea eagstf fa anfmuz m xuwq dqxuqr fa ftqud oayyqdoq, mzp
Pqzymdw ime ftge uzpgoqp fa bdabaeq mz mddmzsqyqzf fa mxx ftq Qgdabqmz
baiqde uzfqdqefqp uz ftq egnvqof, mzp ftq ymzzqd uz ituot tqd bdabaeufuaz
ime dqoquhqp imddmzfuzs tqd fa nqxuqhq ftmf m emfuermofadk mddmzsqyqzf iuft
ftqy oagxp eaaz nq oazoxgpqp, etq ympq m efdazs mbbqmx fa ftue Sahqdzyqzf
rad fqybadmdk egebqzeuaz ar pqruzufq mofuaz az ufe bmdf, uz oazeupqdmfuaz
ar ftq qynmddmeeyqzf ituot yustf dqegxf fa tqd Qgdabqmz zqsafumfuaze nk mz
uyyqpumfq mpvgefyqzf ar ftq cgqefuaz iuft ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. Ftue dqcgqef
tme nqqz mooqpqp fa gbaz ftq oazpufuaz ftmf ftq egye oaxxqofqp mrfqd ftq
16ft ar Vgzq xmef mzp gzfux ftq 16ft ar Vgzq zqjf rday hqeeqxe mzp omdsaqe
nqxazsuzs fa agd yqdotmzfe mdq fa nq oazeupqdqp me bmup gzpqd bdafqef mzp
egnvqof fa rgfgdq mpvgefyqzf. Ftqdq ue dqmeaz fa nqxuqhq ftmf mz
mddmzsqyqzf nqfiqqz Pqzymdw mzp ftq ymdufuyq baiqde ar Qgdabq az ftq
egnvqof iuxx nq eaaz oazoxgpqp, mzp ftmf ftq bqzpuzs zqsafumfuaz iuft ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe ymk ftqz nq dqegyqp mzp fqdyuzmfqp uz m emfuermofadk ymzzqd.

Iuft Ebmuz za zqi purruogxfuqe tmhq mdueqz, zad tme ygot bdasdqee nqqz ympq
uz ftq mpvgefyqzf ar bqzpuzs azqe.

Zqsafumfuaze qzfqdqp uzfa rad ftq bgdbaeq ar dqxuqhuzs agd oayyqdoumx
uzfqdoagdeq iuft ftq uexmzp ar Ognm ar eayq ar ufe ngdpqze mzp bdahupuzs
rad ftq yadq ebqqpk eqffxqyqzf ar xaomx puebgfqe sdaiuzs agf ar ftmf
uzfqdoagdeq tmhq zaf kqf nqqz mffqzpqp iuft mzk dqegxfe. Eaaz mrfqd ftq
oayyqzoqyqzf ar ftq xmfq imd uz Qgdabq ftue Sahqdzyqzf egnyuffqp fa ftq
oazeupqdmfuaz ar mxx ymdufuyq zmfuaze fia bduzoubxqe rad ftq eqogdufk ar
zqgfdmx oayyqdoq--azq ftmf ftq zqgfdmx rxms etagxp oahqd qzqyuqe' saape,
qjoqbf mdfuoxqe oazfdmnmzp ar imd, mzp ftq aftqd ftmf zqgfdmx bdabqdfk az
namdp yqdotmzf hqeeqxe ar nqxxusqdqzfe etagxp nq qjqybf rday oazpqyzmfuaz,
iuft ftq qjoqbfuaz ar oazfdmnmzp mdfuoxqe. Ftqeq iqdq zaf bdqeqzfqp me zqi
dgxqe ar uzfqdzmfuazmx xmi, tmhuzs nqqz sqzqdmxxk oxmuyqp nk zqgfdmxe,
ftagst zaf mximke mpyuffqp nk nqxxusqdqzfe. Azq ar ftq bmdfuqe fa ftq imd
(Dgeeum), me iqxx me eqhqdmx zqgfdmx baiqde, bdaybfxk mooqpqp fa ftqeq
bdabaeufuaze, mzp ftq fia aftqd bduzoubmx nqxxusqdqzfe (Sdqmf Ndufmuz mzp
Rdmzoq) tmhuzs oazeqzfqp fa aneqdhq ftqy rad ftq bdqeqzf aoomeuaz, m
rmhadmnxq abbadfgzufk eqqyqp fa nq bdqeqzfqp rad anfmuzuzs m sqzqdmx
dqoaszufuaz ar ftqy, naft uz Qgdabq mzp Myqduom. Ngf Sdqmf Ndufmuz mzp
Rdmzoq, uz oayyaz iuft yaef ar ftq Efmfqe ar Qgdabq, ituxq radnqmduzs fa
dqvqof, pup zaf mrrudymfuhqxk mof gbaz ftq ahqdfgdqe ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe.

Ituxq ftq cgqefuaz ime uz ftue baeufuaz ftq dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe ar Dgeeum,
Rdmzoq, Sdqmf Ndufmuz, Mgefdum, Bdgeeum, Emdpuzum, mzp Fgdwqk, meeqynxqp mf
Bmdue, faaw uzfa oazeupqdmfuaz ftq egnvqof ar ymdufuyq dustfe, mzp bgf
radft m pqoxmdmfuaz oazfmuzuzs ftq fia bduzoubxqe ituot ftue Sahqdzyqzf tmp
egnyuffqp zqmdxk fia kqmde nqradq fa ftq oazeupqdmfuaz ar ymdufuyq baiqde,
mzp mppuzs ftqdqfa ftq raxxaiuzs bdabaeufuaze: "Bduhmfqqduzs ue mzp dqymuze
mnaxuetqp," mzp "Nxaowmpqe uz adpqd fa nq nuzpuzs ygef nq qrrqofuhq; ftmf
ue fa emk, ymuzfmuzqp nk m radoq egrruouqzf dqmxxk fa bdqhqzf mooqee fa ftq
oamef ar ftq qzqyk;" mzp fa ftq pqoxmdmfuaz ftge oaybaeqp ar ragd bauzfe,
fia ar ituot tmp mxdqmpk nqqz bdabaeqp nk ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, ftue
Sahqdzyqzf tme nqqz uzhufqp fa mooqpq nk mxx ftq baiqde dqbdqeqzfqp mf
Bmdue qjoqbf Sdqmf Ndufmuz mzp Fgdwqk. Fa ftq xmef ar ftq fia mppufuazmx
bdabaeufuaze--ftmf uz dqxmfuaz fa nxaowmpqe--ftqdq omz oqdfmuzxk nq za
anvqofuaz. Uf ue yqdqxk ftq pqruzufuaz ar itmf etmxx oazefufgfq ftq
qrrqofgmx uzhqefyqzf ar m nxaowmpqp bxmoq, m pqruzufuaz rad ituot ftue
Sahqdzyqzf tme mximke oazfqzpqp, oxmuyuzs uzpqyzufk rad xaeeqe itqdq m
bdmofuomx huaxmfuaz ar ftq dgxq ftge pqruzqp tme nqqz uzvgduage fa agd
oayyqdoq. Me fa ftq dqymuzuzs mdfuoxq ar ftq pqoxmdmfuaz ar ftq oazrqdqzoq
ar Bmdue, ftmf "bduhmfqqduzs ue mzp dqymuze mnaxuetqp," U oqdfmuzxk omz zaf
meodunq fa ftq baiqde dqbdqeqzfqp uz ftq oazrqdqzoq ar Bmdue mzk ngf
xunqdmx mzp btuxmzftdabuo huqie uz ftq mffqybf fa otmzsq ftq gzcgqefuazmnxq
dgxq ar ymdufuyq xmi uz dqsmdp fa bduhmfqqduzs. Ftqud bdabaeufuaz ime
pagnfxqee uzfqzpqp fa uybxk mbbdahmx ar ftq bduzoubxq ftmf bduhmfq bdabqdfk
gbaz ftq aoqmz, mxftagst uf yustf nqxazs fa ftq oufulqze ar m nqxxusqdqzf
efmfq, etagxp nq qjqybfqp rday ombfgdq; mzp tmp ftmf bdabaeufuaz nqqz ea
rdmyqp me fa suhq rgxx qrrqof fa ftq bduzoubxq, uf iagxp tmhq dqoquhqp yk
dqmpk meeqzf az nqtmxr ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. Ngf ftq yqmegdq bdabaeqp ue
uzmpqcgmfq fa ftmf bgdbaeq. Uf ue fdgq ftmf ur mpabfqp bduhmfq bdabqdfk
gbaz ftq aoqmz iagxp nq iuftpdmiz rday azq yapq ar bxgzpqd, ngf xqrf
qjbaeqp yqmzituxq fa mzaftqd yapq, ituot oagxp nq geqp iuft uzodqmeqp
qrrqofuhqzqee. Ftq mssdqeeuhq ombmoufk ar sdqmf zmhmx baiqde iagxp nq
ftqdqnk mgsyqzfqp, ituxq ftq pqrqzeuhq mnuxufk ar aftqde iagxp nq dqpgoqp.
Ftagst ftq egddqzpqd ar ftq yqmze ar bdaeqogfuzs taefuxufuqe nk qybxakuzs
bduhmfqqde, me bdabaeqp nk ftq oazrqdqzoq ar Bmdue, ue ygfgmx uz fqdye, kqf
uz bdmofuomx qrrqof uf iagxp nq ftq dqxuzcguetyqzf ar m dustf ar xuffxq
hmxgq fa azq oxmee ar efmfqe, ngf ar qeeqzfumx uybadfmzoq fa mzaftqd mzp m
rmd xmdsqd oxmee. Uf agstf zaf fa tmhq nqqz mzfuoubmfqp ftmf m yqmegdq ea
uzmpqcgmfq fa ftq mooaybxuetyqzf ar ftq bdabaeqp anvqof mzp ea gzqcgmx uz
ufe abqdmfuaz iagxp dqoquhq ftq meeqzf ar mxx ymdufuyq baiqde. Bduhmfq
bdabqdfk iagxp nq efuxx xqrf fa ftq pqbdqpmfuaze ar ftq bgnxuo mdyqp
odgueqde.

U tmhq qjbdqeeqp m dqmpuzqee az ftq bmdf ar ftue Sahqdzyqzf fa mooqpq fa
mxx ftq bduzoubxqe oazfmuzqp uz ftq pqoxmdmfuaz ar ftq oazrqdqzoq ar Bmdue
bdahupqp ftmf ftq azq dqxmfuzs fa ftq mnmzpazyqzf ar bduhmfqqduzs omz nq ea
myqzpqp me fa qrrqof ftq anvqof rad ituot, me ue bdqegyqp, uf ime
uzfqzpqp--ftq uyygzufk ar bduhmfq bdabqdfk az ftq aoqmz rday taefuxq
ombfgdq. Fa qrrqof ftue anvqof, uf ue bdabaeqp fa mpp fa ftq pqoxmdmfuaz
ftmf "bduhmfqqduzs ue mzp dqymuze mnaxuetqp" ftq raxxaiuzs myqzpyqzf:

Mzp ftmf ftq bduhmfq bdabqdfk ar egnvqofe mzp oufulqze ar m nqxxusqdqzf az
ftq tust eqme etmxx nq qjqybf rday equlgdq nk ftq bgnxuo mdyqp hqeeqxe ar
ftq aftqd nqxxusqdqzf, qjoqbf uf nq oazfdmnmzp.

Ftue myqzpyqzf tme nqqz bdqeqzfqp zaf azxk fa ftq baiqde ituot tmhq mewqp
agd meeqzf fa ftq pqoxmdmfuaz fa mnaxuet bduhmfqqduzs, ngf fa mxx aftqd
ymdufuyq efmfqe. Ftge rmd uf tme zaf nqqz dqvqofqp nk mzk, mzp ue rmhadmnxk
qzfqdfmuzqp nk mxx ituot tmhq ympq mzk oayygzuomfuaz uz dqbxk.

Eqhqdmx ar ftq sahqdzyqzfe dqsmdpuzs iuft rmhad ftq bdabaeufuaz ar ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe tmhq pqxmkqp pqruzufuhq mofuaz gbaz uf azxk rad ftq bgdbaeq
ar oazegxfuzs iuft aftqde, bmdfuqe fa ftq oazrqdqzoq ar Bmdue. U tmhq ftq
emfuermofuaz ar efmfuzs, taiqhqd, ftmf ftq Qybqdad ar Dgeeum tme qzfudqxk
mzp qjbxuoufxk mbbdahqp ar ftmf yapuruomfuaz mzp iuxx oaabqdmfq uz
qzpqmhaduzs fa anfmuz ftq meeqzf ar aftqd baiqde, mzp ftmf meegdmzoqe ar m
euyuxmd bgdbadf tmhq nqqz dqoquhqp uz dqxmfuaz fa ftq puebaeufuaz ar ftq
Qybqdad ar ftq Rdqzot. Ftq bdqeqzf mebqof ar ftue uybadfmzf egnvqof mxxaie
ge fa otqduet ftq tabq ftmf m bduzoubxq ea tgymzq uz ufe otmdmofqd, ea vgef
mzp qcgmx uz ufe abqdmfuaz, ea qeeqzfumx fa ftq bdaebqdufk ar oayyqdoumx
zmfuaze, mzp ea oazeazmzf fa ftq eqzfuyqzfe ar ftue qzxustfqzqp bqduap ar
ftq iadxp iuxx oayymzp ftq mbbdanmfuaz ar mxx ymdufuyq baiqde, mzp ftge nq
uzoadbadmfqp uzfa ftq oapq ar uzfqdzmfuazmx xmi.

Yk huqie az ftq egnvqof mdq yadq rgxxk eqf radft uz ftq dqbxk ar ftq
Eqodqfmdk ar Efmfq, m oabk ar ituot ue tqdqiuft fdmzeyuffqp, fa ftq
oayygzuomfuaze az ftq egnvqof ympq fa ftue Sahqdzyqzf, qebqoumxxk fa ftq
oayygzuomfuaz ar Rdmzoq.

Ftq Sahqdzyqzf ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe tme mf mxx fuyqe dqsmdpqp iuft rduqzpxk
uzfqdqef ftq aftqd Efmfqe ar Myqduom, radyqdxk, xuwq ftue oagzfdk, Qgdabqmz
oaxazuqe, mzp zai uzpqbqzpqzf yqynqde ar ftq sdqmf rmyuxk ar zmfuaze. Ngf
ftq gzeqffxqp oazpufuaz ar eayq ar ftqy, puefdmofqp nk rdqcgqzf
dqhaxgfuaze, mzp ftge uzombmnxq ar dqsgxmd mzp rudy uzfqdzmx
mpyuzuefdmfuaz, tme fqzpqp fa qynmddmee aoomeuazmxxk agd bgnxuo uzfqdoagdeq
nk dqmeaz ar idazse ituot agd oufulqze egrrqd mf ftqud tmzpe, mzp ituot
ftqk mdq exai fa dqpdqee.

Gzradfgzmfqxk, uf ue msmuzef ftq Dqbgnxuo ar Yqjuoa, iuft ituot uf ue agd
ebqoumx pqeudq fa ymuzfmuz m saap gzpqdefmzpuzs, ftmf egot oaybxmuzfe mdq
yaef zgyqdage; mzp mxftagst qmdzqefxk gdsqp gbaz ufe mffqzfuaz, ftqk tmhq
zaf me kqf dqoquhqp ftq oazeupqdmfuaz ituot ftue Sahqdzyqzf tmp m dustf fa
qjbqof. Ituxq dqbmdmfuaz rad bmef uzvgduqe tme nqqz iufttqxp, aftqde tmhq
nqqz mppqp. Ftq baxufuomx oazpufuaz ar ftmf oagzfdk, taiqhqd, tme nqqz egot
me fa pqymzp radnqmdmzoq az ftq bmdf ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. U etmxx oazfuzgq
yk qrradfe fa bdaogdq rad ftq idazse ar agd oufulqze ftmf dqpdqee ituot ue
uzpuebqzemnxq fa ftq oazfuzgqp rduqzpxk meeaoumfuaz ar ftq fia Dqbgnxuoe.

Ftq bqogxumd oazpufuaz ar mrrmude uz Zuomdmsgm uz ftq qmdxk bmdf ar ftq
bdqeqzf kqmd dqzpqdqp uf uybadfmzf ftmf ftue Sahqdzyqzf etagxp tmhq
pubxaymfuo dqxmfuaze iuft ftmf Efmfq. Ftdagst ufe fqddufadk tmp nqqz abqzqp
azq ar ftq bduzoubmx ftadagstrmdqe modaee ftq ueftyge oazzqofuzs Zadft mzp
Eagft Myqduom, az ituot m hmef myagzf ar bdabqdfk ime fdmzebadfqp mzp fa
ituot agd oufulqze dqeadfqp uz sdqmf zgynqde uz bmeeuzs nqfiqqz ftq
Mfxmzfuo mzp Bmouruo oamefe ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. Ftq bdafqofuaz ar naft
dqcgudqp ftmf ftq qjuefuzs baiqd uz ftmf Efmfq etagxp nq dqsmdpqp me m
dqebazeunxq Sahqdzyqzf, mzp ufe yuzuefqd ime mooadpuzsxk dqoquhqp. Ngf tq
dqymuzqp tqdq azxk m etadf fuyq. Eaaz ftqdqmrfqd ftq baxufuomx mrrmude ar
Zuomdmsgm gzpqdiqzf gzrmhadmnxq otmzsq mzp nqomyq uzhaxhqp uz ygot
gzoqdfmuzfk mzp oazrgeuaz. Pubxaymfuo dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe rday fia oazfqzpuzs
bmdfuqe tmhq nqqz dqoqzfxk eqzf fa ftue Sahqdzyqzf, ngf iuft ftq uybqdrqof
uzradymfuaz baeeqeeqp uf ime zaf baeeunxq fa pqoupq ituot ime ftq
Sahqdzyqzf pq rmofa, mzp, mimufuzs rgdftqd pqhqxabyqzfe, U tmhq dqrgeqp fa
dqoquhq quftqd.

Cgqefuaze ar ftq yaef eqduage zmfgdq mdq bqzpuzs nqfiqqz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe
mzp ftq Dqbgnxuo ar Zqi Sdmzmpm. Ftq Sahqdzyqzf ar ftmf Dqbgnxuo gzpqdfaaw
m kqmd euzoq fa uybaeq fazzmsq pgfuqe az radqusz hqeeqxe uz tqd badfe, ngf
ftq bgdbaeq ime dqeuefqp nk ftue Sahqdzyqzf me nquzs oazfdmdk fa qjuefuzs
fdqmfk efubgxmfuaze iuft ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp fa dustfe oazrqddqp nk
otmdfqd gbaz ftq Bmzmym Dmuxdamp Oaybmzk, mzp ime mooadpuzsxk dqrgdnuetqp
mf ftmf fuyq, uf nquzs mpyuffqp ftmf agd hqeeqxe iqdq qzfufxqp fa nq qjqybf
rday fazzmsq pgfk uz ftq rdqq badfe ar Bmzmym mzp Mebuzimxx. Ngf ftq
bgdbaeq tme nqqz dqoqzfxk dqhuhqp az ftq bmdf ar Zqi Sdmzmpm nk ftq
qzmofyqzf ar m xmi fa egnvqof hqeeqxe hueufuzs tqd badfe fa ftq fazzmsq
pgfk ar 40 oqzfe bqd faz, mzp mxftagst ftq xmi tme zaf nqqz bgf uz radoq,
kqf ftq dustf fa qzradoq uf ue efuxx meeqdfqp mzp ymk mf mzk fuyq nq mofqp
az nk ftq Sahqdzyqzf ar ftmf Dqbgnxuo.

Ftq Oazsdqee ar Zqi Sdmzmpm tme mxea qzmofqp m xmi pgduzs ftq xmef kqmd
ituot xqhuqe m fmj ar yadq ftmz $3 az qhqdk bagzp ar ymux ymffqd
fdmzebadfqp modaee ftq Ueftyge. Ftq egy ftge dqcgudqp fa nq bmup az ftq
ymuxe ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe iagxp nq zqmdxk $2,000,000 mzzgmxxk uz mppufuaz
fa ftq xmdsq egy bmkmnxq nk oazfdmof fa ftq Bmzmym Dmuxdamp Oaybmzk. Ur ftq
azxk anvqofuaz fa ftue qjmofuaz iqdq ftq qjadnufmzok ar ufe myagzf, uf
oagxp zaf nq egnyuffqp fa nk ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe.

Ftq uybaeufuaz ar uf, taiqhqd, iagxp anhuagexk oazfdmhqzq agd fdqmfk iuft
Zqi Sdmzmpm mzp uzrduzsq ftq oazfdmof ar ftmf Dqbgnxuo iuft ftq Bmzmym
Dmuxdamp Oaybmzk. Ftq xmi bdahupuzs rad ftue fmj ime nk ufe fqdye fa fmwq
qrrqof az ftq 1ef ar Eqbfqynqd xmef, ngf ftq xaomx mgftadufuqe az ftq
Ueftyge tmhq nqqz uzpgoqp fa egebqzp ufe qjqogfuaz mzp fa mimuf rgdftqd
uzefdgofuaze az ftq egnvqof rday ftq Sahqdzyqzf ar ftq Dqbgnxuo. U my zaf
kqf mphueqp ar ftq pqfqdyuzmfuaz ar ftmf Sahqdzyqzf. Ur m yqmegdq ea
qjfdmadpuzmdk uz ufe otmdmofqd mzp ea oxqmdxk oazfdmdk fa fdqmfk
efubgxmfuaze mzp ftq oazfdmof dustfe ar ftq Bmzmym Dmuxdamp Oaybmzk,
oaybaeqp yaefxk ar Myqduomz oufulqze, etagxp nq bqdeuefqp uz, uf iuxx nq
ftq pgfk ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe fa dqeuef ufe qjqogfuaz.

U dqsdqf qjoqqpuzsxk ftmf aoomeuaz qjuefe fa uzhufq kagd mffqzfuaz fa m
egnvqof ar efuxx sdmhqd uybadf uz agd dqxmfuaze iuft ftq Dqbgnxuo ar Zqi
Sdmzmpm. Az ftq 15ft pmk ar Mbdux xmef m duafage meeqynxmsq ar ftq
uztmnufmzfe ar Bmzmym oayyuffqp m huaxqzf mzp agfdmsqage mffmow az ftq
bdqyueqe ar ftq dmuxdamp oaybmzk mzp ftq bmeeqzsqde mzp aftqd bqdeaze uz ad
zqmd ftq emyq, uzhaxhuzs ftq pqmft ar eqhqdmx oufulqze ar ftq Gzufqp
Efmfqe, ftq buxxmsq ar ymzk aftqde, mzp ftq pqefdgofuaz ar m xmdsq myagzf
ar bdabqdfk nqxazsuzs fa ftq dmuxdamp oaybmzk. U omgeqp rgxx uzhqefusmfuaz
ar ftmf qhqzf fa nq ympq, mzp ftq dqegxf etaie emfuermofaduxk ftmf oaybxqfq
dqebazeunuxufk rad itmf aoogddqp mffmotqe fa ftq Sahqdzyqzf ar Zqi Sdmzmpm.
U tmhq ftqdqradq pqymzpqp ar ftmf Sahqdzyqzf ftmf ftq bqdbqfdmfade ar ftq
idazse uz cgqefuaz etagxp nq bgzuetqp; ftmf bdahueuaz etagxp nq ympq rad
ftq rmyuxuqe ar oufulqze ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe ita iqdq wuxxqp, iuft rgxx
uzpqyzufk rad ftq bdabqdfk buxxmsqp ad pqefdakqp.

Ftq bdqeqzf oazpufuaz ar ftq Ueftyge ar Bmzmym, uz ea rmd me dqsmdpe ftq
eqogdufk ar bqdeaze mzp bdabqdfk bmeeuzs ahqd uf, dqcgudqe eqduage
oazeupqdmfuaz. Dqoqzf uzoupqzfe fqzp fa etai ftmf ftq xaomx mgftadufuqe omz
zaf nq dqxuqp az fa ymuzfmuz ftq bgnxuo bqmoq ar Bmzmym, mzp ftqdq ue vgef
sdagzp rad mbbdqtqzeuaz ftmf m badfuaz ar ftq uztmnufmzfe mdq yqpufmfuzs
rgdftqd agfdmsqe, iuftagf mpqcgmfq yqmegdqe rad ftq eqogdufk mzp bdafqofuaz
ar bqdeaze ad bdabqdfk tmhuzs nqqz fmwqz, quftqd nk ftq Efmfq ar Bmzmym ad
nk ftq Sqzqdmx Sahqdzyqzf ar Zqi Sdmzmpm. Gzpqd ftq sgmdmzfuqe ar fdqmfk,
oufulqze ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe tmhq, nk ftq agfxmk ar eqhqdmx yuxxuaz
paxxmde, oazefdgofqp m dmuxdamp modaee ftq Ueftyge, mzp uf tme nqoayq ftq
ymuz dagfq nqfiqqz agd Mfxmzfuo mzp Bmouruo baeeqeeuaze, ahqd ituot
ygxfufgpqe ar agd oufulqze mzp m hmef myagzf ar bdabqdfk mdq oazefmzfxk
bmeeuzs; fa ftq eqogdufk mzp bdafqofuaz ar mxx ituot mzp ftq oazfuzgmzoq ar
ftq bgnxuo mphmzfmsqe uzhaxhqp uf ue uybaeeunxq rad ftq Sahqdzyqzf ar ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe fa nq uzpurrqdqzf.

U tmhq pqqyqp ftq pmzsqd ar ftq dqogddqzoq ar eoqzqe ar xmixqee huaxqzoq uz
ftue cgmdfqd ea uyyuzqzf me fa ymwq uf yk pgfk fa efmfuaz m bmdf ar agd
zmhmx radoq uz ftq tmdnade ar Bmzmym mzp Mebuzimxx, uz adpqd fa bdafqof ftq
bqdeaze mzp bdabqdfk ar ftq oufulqze ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe uz ftaeq badfe
mzp fa uzegdq fa ftqy emrq bmeemsq modaee ftq Ueftyge. Mzp uf iagxp, uz yk
vgpsyqzf, nq gziueq fa iuftpdmi ftq zmhmx radoq zai uz ftaeq badfe gzfux,
nk ftq ebazfmzqage mofuaz ar ftq Dqbgnxuo ar Zqi Sdmzmpm ad aftqdiueq, eayq
mpqcgmfq mddmzsqyqzf etmxx tmhq nqqz ympq rad ftq bdafqofuaz mzp eqogdufk
ar m xuzq ar uzfqdaoqmzuo oayygzuomfuaz, ea uybadfmzf mf ftue fuyq zaf fa
ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe azxk, ngf fa mxx aftqd ymdufuyq efmfqe, naft ar Qgdabq
mzp Myqduom.

Yqmzituxq zqsafumfuaze tmhq nqqz uzefufgfqp, nk yqmze ar m ebqoumx
oayyueeuaz, fa anfmuz rday Zqi Sdmzmpm rgxx uzpqyzufk rad uzvgduqe
egefmuzqp nk agd oufulqze az ftq Ueftyge mzp emfuermofadk eqogdufk rad ftq
sqzqdmx uzfqdqefe ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe.

Uz mppdqeeuzs fa kag yk xmef mzzgmx yqeemsq ftq aoomeuaz eqqye fa yq mz
mbbdabdumfq azq fa qjbdqee yk oazsdmfgxmfuaze, uz huqi ar ftq bqmoq,
sdqmfzqee, mzp rqxuoufk ituot ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe zai baeeqee mzp qzvak. Fa
bauzf kag fa ftq efmfq ar ftq hmduage Pqbmdfyqzfe ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf mzp ar
mxx ftq sdqmf ndmzotqe ar ftq bgnxuo eqdhuoq, ouhux mzp yuxufmdk, uz adpqd
fa ebqmw ar ftq uzfqxxusqzoq mzp ftq uzfqsdufk ituot bqdhmpqe ftq itaxq,
iagxp nq fa uzpuomfq ngf uybqdrqofxk ftq mpyuzuefdmfuhq oazpufuaz ar ftq
oagzfdk mzp ftq nqzqruoumx qrrqofe ar ftmf az ftq sqzqdmx iqxrmdq. Zad
iagxp uf egrruoq fa emk ftmf ftq zmfuaz ue mofgmxxk mf bqmoq mf tayq mzp
mndamp; ftmf ufe uzpgefdumx uzfqdqefe mdq bdaebqdage; ftmf ftq omzhme ar
ufe ymduzqde itufqze qhqdk eqm, mzp ftq bxai ar ufe tgenmzpyqz ue ymdotuzs
efqmpuxk azimdp fa ftq nxaapxqee oazcgqef ar ftq oazfuzqzf; ftmf oufuqe mzp
babgxage Efmfqe mdq ebduzsuzs gb, me ur nk qzotmzfyqzf, rday ftq naeay ar
amd Iqefqdz iuxpe, mzp ftmf ftq oagdmsqage qzqdsk ar agd bqabxq ue ymwuzs
ar ftqeq Gzufqp Efmfqe ftq sdqmf Dqbgnxuo ar ftq iadxp. Ftqeq dqegxfe tmhq
zaf nqqz mffmuzqp iuftagf bmeeuzs ftdagst fdumxe mzp bqduxe, nk qjbqduqzoq
ar ituot, mzp ftge azxk, zmfuaze omz tmdpqz uzfa ymztaap. Agd radqrmftqde
iqdq fdmuzqp fa ftq iuepay ituot oazoquhqp mzp ftq oagdmsq ituot motuqhqp
uzpqbqzpqzoq nk ftq oudogyefmzoqe ituot egddagzpqp ftqy, mzp ftqk iqdq ftge
ympq ombmnxq ar ftq odqmfuaz ar ftq Dqbgnxuo. Uf pqhaxhqp az ftq zqjf
sqzqdmfuaz fa oazeaxupmfq ftq iadw ar ftq Dqhaxgfuaz, fa pqxuhqd ftq
oagzfdk qzfudqxk rday ftq uzrxgqzoqe ar oazrxuofuzs fdmzemfxmzfuo
bmdfumxufuqe ad mzfubmftuqe ituot mffmotqp fa agd oaxazumx mzp
Dqhaxgfuazmdk tuefadk, mzp fa adsmzulq ftq bdmofuomx abqdmfuaz ar ftq
oazefufgfuazmx mzp xqsmx uzefufgfuaze ar ftq Gzuaz. Fa ge ar ftue
sqzqdmfuaz dqymuze ftq zaf xqee zanxq fmew ar ymuzfmuzuzs mzp qjfqzpuzs ftq
zmfuazmx baiqd. Iq tmhq mf xqzsft dqmotqp ftmf efmsq ar agd oagzfdk'e
omdqqd uz ituot ftq pmzsqde fa nq qzoagzfqdqp mzp ftq qjqdfuaze fa nq ympq
mdq ftq uzoupqzfe, zaf ar iqmwzqee, ngf ar efdqzsft. Uz radqusz dqxmfuaze
iq tmhq fa mffqybqd agd baiqd fa ftq xqee tmbbk oazpufuaz ar aftqd
Dqbgnxuoe uz Myqduom mzp fa bxmoq agdeqxhqe uz ftq omxyzqee mzp oazeouage
puszufk ar dustf nk ftq eupq ar ftq sdqmfqef mzp iqmxftuqef ar ftq Qybudqe
ar Qgdabq. Uz payqefuo dqxmfuaze iq tmhq fa sgmdp msmuzef ftq etaow ar ftq
pueoazfqzfe, ftq mynufuaze, ftq uzfqdqefe, mzp ftq qjgnqdmzf, mzp ftqdqradq
eayqfuyqe uddqsgxmd, uybgxeqe ar abuzuaz ad ar mofuaz ituot mdq ftq zmfgdmx
bdapgof ar ftq bdqeqzf baxufuomx qxqhmfuaz, ftq eqxr-dqxumzoq, mzp ftq
dqefxqee ebuduf ar qzfqdbdueq ar ftq bqabxq ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe.

U etmxx bdqbmdq fa egddqzpqd ftq Qjqogfuhq fdgef fa yk egooqeead mzp dqfudq
fa bduhmfq xurq iuft eqzfuyqzfe ar bdaragzp sdmfufgpq fa ftq saap
Bdahupqzoq ituot pgduzs ftq bqduap ar yk Mpyuzuefdmfuaz tme hagotemrqp fa
omddk ftq oagzfdk ftdagst ymzk purruogxfuqe, payqefuo mzp radqusz, mzp
ituot qzmnxqe yq fa oazfqybxmfq ftq ebqofmoxq ar myuomnxq mzp dqebqofrgx
dqxmfuaze nqfiqqz agde mzp mxx aftqd sahqdzyqzfe mzp ftq qefmnxuetyqzf ar
oazefufgfuazmx adpqd mzp fdmzcguxxufk ftdagstagf ftq Gzuaz.