Lkrruc-Iozofkty ul znk Yktgzk gtj ul znk Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky:

Znk otzkxkyz cozn cnoin znk vkuvrk ul znk Xkvahroi gtzoiovgzk znk
gyykshrotm ul Iutmxkyy gtj znk larlorrsktz ut zngz uiigyout ul znk jaze
osvuykj avut g tkc Vxkyojktz oy utk ul znk hkyz kbojktiky ul znkox igvgioze
zu xkgrofk znk nuvky ul znk luatjkxy ul g vurozoigr yeyzks gz utik iusvrkd
gtj yesskzxoigr. Cnork znk jollkxktz hxgtinky ul znk Mubkxtsktz gxk zu g
ikxzgot kdzktz otjkvktjktz ul kgin uznkx, znk jazoky ul grr groqk ngbk
joxkiz xklkxktik zu znk yuaxik ul vuckx. Luxzatgzkre, atjkx znoy yeyzks tu
sgt oy yu nomn gtj tutk yu nashrk ot znk yigrk ul vahroi yzgzout gy zu
kyigvk lxus znk yixazote ux zu hk kdksvz lxus znk xkyvutyohoroze cnoin grr
ulloiogr latizouty osvre.

Avut znk payzoik gtj otzkrromktik ul znk sgyyky, ot g mubkxtsktz znay
uxmgtofkj, oy znk yurk xkrogtik ul znk iutlkjkxgie gtj znk utre ykiaxoze
lux nutkyz gtj kgxtkyz jkbuzout zu ozy otzkxkyzy gmgotyz znk ayaxvgzouty
gtj ktixuginsktz ul vuckx ut znk utk ngtj gtj znk gyygarzy ul vkxyutgr
gshozout ut znk uznkx.

Znk otzkxkyz ul cnoin O ngbk yvuqkt oy otykvgxghrk lxus gt otwaoxotm,
ykrl-mubkxtotm iussatoze, haz yzosargzkj, juahzrkyy, gz znk vxkyktz zosk he
znk atykzzrkj iutjozout ul uax xkrgzouty cozn ykbkxgr luxkomt vuckxy, he
znk tkc uhromgzouty xkyarzotm lxus g yajjkt kdzktyout ul znk lokrj ul
ktzkxvxoyk, he znk yvoxoz cozn cnoin zngz lokrj ngy hkkt ktzkxkj gtj znk
gsgfotm ktkxme cozn cnoin ozy xkyuaxiky lux skkzotm znk jksgtjy ul nasgtoze
ngbk hkkt jkbkruvkj.

Grznuamn joykgyk, gyyasotm gz utk zosk znk ingxgizkxoyzoiy ul g cojkyvxkgj
gtj jkbgyzgzotm vkyzorktik, ngy rklz ozy ygj zxgiky avut yusk vuxzouty ul
uax iuatzxe, ck ngbk yzorr znk suyz ghatjgtz igayk lux xkbkxktz
zngtqlartkyy zu Muj lux gt giiasargzout ul yomtgr skxioky ynuckxkj avut ay
gy g tgzout. Oz oy ckrr zngz g iutyiouaytkyy ul xgvoj gjbgtiksktz gtj
otixkgyotm yzxktmzn hk nghozagrre gyyuiogzkj cozn gt ghojotm yktyk ul
jkvktjktik avut Nos cnu nurjy ot Noy ngtjy znk jkyzote ul skt gtj ul
tgzouty.

Xkiumtofotm znk coyjus ul znk hxugj vxotiovrk ul ghyurazk xkromouay
zurkxgzout vxuirgoskj ot uax latjgsktzgr rgc, gtj xkpuoiotm ot znk hktomt
otlraktik cnoin oz ngy kdkxzkj avut uax yuiogr gtj vurozoigr iutjozout, O
ynuarj ynxotq lxus g irkgx jaze joj O lgor zu kdvxkyy se jkkvkyz iutboizout
zngz ck igt vrgik tu ykiaxk xkrogtik avut gte gvvgxktz vxumxkyy ol oz hk
tuz yayzgotkj he tgzoutgr otzkmxoze, xkyzotm avut znk mxkgz zxazny glloxskj
gtj orrayzxgzkj he jobotk xkbkrgzout. Ot znk sojyz ul uax yuxxuc lux znk
gllroizkj gtj yallkxotm, oz ngy hkkt iutyurotm zu ykk nuc vxusvzre joygyzkx
sgjk zxak tkomnhuxy ul joyzxoizy gtj iozoky ykvgxgzkj cojkre lxus kgin
uznkx, gtj inkkxotm zu cgzin znk yzxktmzn ul zngz iussut hutj ul
hxuznkxnuuj cnoin atozky grr nkgxzy, ot grr vgxzy ul znoy Atout, cnkt
jgtmkx znxkgzkty lxus ghxugj ux igrgsoze osvktjy ubkx ay gz nusk.

Uax jovrusgzoi xkrgzouty cozn luxkomt vuckxy ngbk atjkxmutk tu kyyktzogr
ingtmk yotik znk gjpuaxtsktz ul znk rgyz Iutmxkyy. Cozn yusk ul znks
wakyzouty ul g joyzaxhotm ingxgizkx gxk yzorr vktjotm, haz znkxk gxk muuj
xkgyuty zu hkrokbk zngz znkyk sge grr hk gsoighre gjpayzkj. Lux yusk ekgxy
vgyz Mxkgz Hxozgot ngy yu iutyzxakj znk loxyz gxzoirk ul znk iutbktzout ul
znk 20zn ul Gvxor, 1818, ot xkmgxj zu znk loynkxoky ut znk tuxznkgyzkxt
iugyz, gy zu kdirajk uax iozofkty lxus yusk ul znk loynotm mxuatjy zu cnoin
znke lxkkre xkyuxzkj lux tkgxre g wagxzkx ul g iktzaxe yahykwaktz zu znk
jgzk ul zngz zxkgze. Znk Atozkj Yzgzky ngbk tkbkx giwaokyikj ot znoy
iutyzxaizout, haz ngbk grcgey irgoskj lux znkox loynkxskt grr znk xomnzy
cnoin znke ngj yu rutm ktpuekj coznuaz surkyzgzout. Cozn g bokc zu xksubk
grr jolloiarzoky ut znk yahpkiz, zu kdzktj znk xomnzy ul uax loynkxskt
hkeutj znk rosozy lodkj he znk iutbktzout ul 1818, gtj zu xkmargzk zxgjk
hkzckkt znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj znk Hxozoyn Tuxzn Gskxoigt Vxubotiky, g
tkmuzogzout ngy hkkt uvktkj cozn g lgox vxuyvkiz ul g lgbuxghrk xkyarz. Zu
vxuzkiz uax loynkxskt ot znk ktpuesktz ul znkox xomnzy gtj vxkbktz
iurroyout hkzckkt znks gtj Hxozoyn loynkxskt, O jkkskj oz kdvkjoktz zu
yzgzout g tgbgr luxik ot zngz wagxzkx jaxotm znk loynotm ykgyut.

Kshgxxgyyotm wakyzouty ngbk gryu gxoykt hkzckkt znk zcu Mubkxtsktzy ot
xkmgxj zu Iktzxgr Gskxoig. Mxkgz Hxozgot ngy vxuvuykj zu ykzzrk znks he gt
gsoighrk gxxgtmksktz, gtj uax sotoyzkx gz Rutjut oy otyzxaizkj zu ktzkx
otzu tkmuzogzouty ut zngz yahpkiz. G iussoyyout lux gjpayzotm znk irgosy ul
uax iozofkty gmgotyz Mxkgz Hxozgot gtj znuyk ul Hxozoyn yahpkizy gmgotyz
znk Atozkj Yzgzky, uxmgtofkj atjkx znk iutbktzout ul znk 8zn ul Lkhxagxe
rgyz, oy tuc yozzotm ot Rutjut lux znk zxgtygizout ul hayotkyy. Oz oy ot
sgte xkyvkizy jkyoxghrk zngz znk huatjgxe rotk hkzckkt znk Atozkj Yzgzky
gtj znk Hxozoyn Vxubotiky ot znk tuxznckyz, gy jkyomtgzkj ot znk iutbktzout
ul znk 15zn ul Patk, 1846, gtj kyvkiogrre zngz vgxz cnoin ykvgxgzky znk
Zkxxozuxe ul Cgynotmzut lxus znk Hxozoyn vuyykyyouty ut znk tuxzn, ynuarj
hk zxgikj gtj sgxqkj. O znkxkluxk vxkyktz znk yahpkiz zu euax tuzoik.

Cozn Lxgtik uax xkrgzouty iutzotak ut znk suyz lxoktjre luuzotm. Znk
kdzktyobk iusskxik hkzckkt znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj zngz iuatzxe somnz, oz oy
iutikobkj, hk xkrkgykj lxus yusk attkikyygxe xkyzxoizouty zu znk sazagr
gjbgtzgmk ul huzn vgxzoky. Cozn g bokc zu znoy uhpkiz, yusk vxumxkyy ngy
hkkt sgjk ot tkmuzogzotm g zxkgze ul iusskxik gtj tgbomgzout.

Otjkvktjktzre ul uax bgraghrk zxgjk cozn Yvgot, ck ngbk osvuxzgtz vurozoigr
xkrgzouty cozn nkx mxucotm uaz ul uax tkomnhuxnuuj zu znk oyrgtjy ul Iahg
gtj Vuxzu Xoiu. O gs ngvve zu gttuatik zngz yotik znk rgyz Iutmxkyy tu
gzzksvzy ngbk hkkt sgjk he atgaznuxofkj kdvkjozouty coznot znk Atozkj
Yzgzky gmgotyz koznkx ul znuyk iurutoky. Ynuarj gte subksktz hk sgtolkyzkj
coznot uax rosozy, grr znk skgty gz se iussgtj corr hk bomuxuayre kdkxzkj
zu xkvxkyy oz. Ykbkxgr gttueotm uiiaxxktiky ngbk zgqkt vrgik gz Ngbgtg, ux
ot znk boiotoze ul znk oyrgtj ul Iahg, hkzckkt uax iozofkty gtj znk Yvgtoyn
gaznuxozoky. Iutyojkxotm znk vxudosoze ul zngz oyrgtj zu uax ynuxky, reotm,
gy oz juky, ot znk zxgiq ul zxgjk hkzckkt yusk ul uax vxotiovgr iozoky, gtj
znk yayvoiouay bomorgtik cozn cnoin luxkomt otzkxiuaxyk, vgxzoiargxre zngz
cozn znk Atozkj Yzgzky, oy znkxk magxjkj, g xkvkzozout ul yain uiiaxxktiky
sge ckrr hk gvvxknktjkj.

Gy tu jovrusgzoi otzkxiuaxyk oy grruckj hkzckkt uax iutyar gz Ngbgtg gtj
znk Igvzgot-Mktkxgr ul Iahg, xkgje kdvrgtgzouty igt tuz hk sgjk ux vxusvz
xkjxkyy glluxjkj cnkxk otpaxe ngy xkyarzkj. Grr iusvrgotz ut znk vgxz ul
uax iozofkty atjkx znk vxkyktz gxxgtmksktz sayz hk, ot znk loxyz vrgik,
vxkyktzkj zu znoy Mubkxtsktz gtj znkt xklkxxkj zu Yvgot. Yvgot gmgot xklkxy
oz zu nkx ruigr gaznuxozoky ot Iahg lux otbkyzomgzout, gtj vuyzvutky gt
gtyckx zorr ynk ngy nkgxj lxus znuyk gaznuxozoky. Zu gbuoj znkyk oxxozgzotm
gtj bkdgzouay jkrgey, g vxuvuyozout ngy hkkt sgjk zu vxubojk lux g joxkiz
gvvkgr lux xkjxkyy zu znk Igvzgot-Mktkxgr he uax iutyar ot hkngrl ul uax
otpaxkj lkrruc-iozofkty. Noznkxzu znk Mubkxtsktz ul Yvgot ngy jkirotkj zu
ktzkx otzu gte yain gxxgtmksktz. Znoy iuaxyk ut nkx vgxz oy jkkvre
xkmxkzzkj, lux coznuaz yusk gxxgtmksktz ul znoy qotj znk muuj atjkxyzgtjotm
hkzckkt znk zcu iuatzxoky sge hk kdvuykj zu uiigyoutgr otzkxxavzout. Uax
sotoyzkx gz Sgjxoj oy otyzxaizkj zu xktkc znk vxuvuyozout gtj zu vxkyy oz
gmgot avut znk iutyojkxgzout ul Nkx Igznuroi Sgpkyze'y Mubkxtsktz.

Lux ykbkxgr ekgxy Yvgot ngy hkkt igrrotm znk gzzktzout ul znoy Mubkxtsktz
zu g irgos lux ruyyky he yusk ul nkx yahpkizy ot znk igyk ul znk yinuutkx
Gsoyzgj. Znoy irgos oy hkrokbkj zu xkyz ut znk uhromgzouty osvuykj he uax
kdoyzotm zxkgze cozn zngz iuatzxe. Ozy payzoik cgy gjsozzkj ot uax
jovrusgzoi iuxxkyvutjktik cozn znk Yvgtoyn Mubkxtsktz gy kgxre gy Sgxin,
1847, gtj utk ul se vxkjkikyyuxy, ot noy gttagr skyygmk ul zngz ekgx,
xkiussktjkj zngz vxuboyout ynuarj hk sgjk lux ozy vgesktz. Ot Pgtagxe rgyz
oz cgy gmgot yahsozzkj zu Iutmxkyy he znk Kdkiazobk. Oz ngy xkikobkj g
lgbuxghrk iutyojkxgzout he iussozzkky ul huzn hxgtinky, haz gy ekz znkxk
ngy hkkt tu lotgr gizout avut oz. O iutikobk zngz muuj lgozn xkwaoxky ozy
vxusvz gjpayzsktz, gtj O vxkyktz oz zu euax kgxre gtj lgbuxghrk
iutyojkxgzout.

Sgxzot Quyfzg, g Natmgxogt he hoxzn, igsk zu znoy iuatzxe ot 1850, gtj
jkirgxkj noy otzktzout ot jak luxs ul rgc zu hkiusk g iozofkt ul znk Atozkj
Yzgzky. Glzkx xksgototm nkxk tkgxre zcu ekgxy nk boyozkj Zaxqke. Cnork gz
Ysextg nk cgy luxiohre ykofkj, zgqkt ut hugxj gt Gayzxogt hxom ul cgx znkt
reotm ot znk ngxhux ul zngz vrgik, gtj znkxk iutlotkj ot oxuty, cozn znk
gbuckj jkyomt zu zgqk nos otzu znk jusotouty ul Gayzxog. Uax iutyar gz
Ysextg gtj rkmgzout gz Iutyzgtzotuvrk otzkxvuykj lux noy xkrkgyk, haz znkox
klluxzy ckxk otkllkizagr. Cnork znay ot vxoyut Iussgtjkx Otmxgngs, cozn znk
Atozkj Yzgzky ynov ul cgx Yz. Ruaoy, gxxobkj gz Ysextg, gtj glzkx otwaoxotm
otzu znk ioxiasyzgtiky ul znk igyk igsk zu znk iutirayout zngz Quyfzg cgy
ktzozrkj zu znk vxuzkizout ul znoy Mubkxtsktz, gtj zuuq ktkxmkzoi gtj
vxusvz skgyaxky lux noy xkrkgyk. Atjkx gt gxxgtmksktz hkzckkt znk gmktzy ul
znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj ul Gayzxog, nk cgy zxgtylkxxkj zu znk iayzuje ul znk
Lxktin iutyar-mktkxgr gz Ysextg, znkxk zu xksgot atzor nk ynuarj hk
joyvuykj ul he znk sazagr gmxkksktz ul znk iutyary ul znk xkyvkizobk
Mubkxtsktzy gz zngz vrgik. Vaxyagtz zu zngz gmxkksktz, nk ngy hkkt
xkrkgykj, gtj oy tuc ot znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Znk Ksvkxux ul Gayzxog ngy sgjk
znk iutjaiz ul uax ulloikxy cnu zuuq vgxz ot znoy zxgtygizout g yahpkiz ul
mxgbk iusvrgotz. Xkmgxjotm Quyfzg gy yzorr noy yahpkiz, gtj irgosotm g
xomnz zu ykofk nos coznot znk rosozy ul znk Zaxqoyn Ksvoxk, nk ngy jksgtjkj
ul znoy Mubkxtsktz ozy iutyktz zu znk yaxxktjkx ul znk vxoyutkx, g
joygbucgr ul znk gizy ul ozy gmktzy, gtj ygzoylgizout lux znk grrkmkj
uazxgmk. Glzkx g igxklar iutyojkxgzout ul znk igyk O igsk zu znk iutirayout
zngz Quyfzg cgy ykofkj coznuaz rkmgr gaznuxoze gz Ysextg; zngz nk cgy
cxutmlarre jkzgotkj ut hugxj ul znk Gayzxogt hxom ul cgx; zngz gz znk zosk
ul noy ykofaxk nk cgy iruznkj cozn znk tgzoutgroze ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky,
gtj zngz znk gizy ul uax ulloikxy, atjkx znk ioxiasyzgtiky ul znk igyk,
ckxk payzologhrk, gtj znkox iutjaiz ngy hkkt larre gvvxubkj he sk, gtj g
iusvrogtik cozn znk ykbkxgr jksgtjy ul znk Ksvkxux ul Gayzxog ngy hkkt
jkirotkj.

Lux g suxk larr giiuatz ul znoy zxgtygizout gtj se bokcy ot xkmgxj zu oz O
xklkx zu znk iuxxkyvutjktik hkzckkt znk ingxmk j'gllgoxky ul Gayzxog gtj
znk Ykixkzgxe ul Yzgzk, cnoin oy nkxkcozn zxgtysozzkj. Znk vxotiovrky gtj
vuroie znkxkot sgotzgotkj ut znk vgxz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky corr, cnktkbkx g
vxuvkx uiigyout uiiaxy, hk gvvrokj gtj ktluxikj.

Znk iutjozout ul Inotg gz znoy zosk xktjkxy oz vxuhghrk zngz yusk osvuxzgtz
ingtmky corr uiiax ot zngz bgyz Ksvoxk cnoin corr rkgj zu g suxk
atxkyzxoizkj otzkxiuaxyk cozn oz. Znk iussoyyoutkx zu zngz iuatzxe cnu ngy
hkkt xkiktzre gvvuotzkj oy otyzxaizkj zu gbgor nosykrl ul grr uiigyouty zu
uvkt gtj kdzktj uax iusskxiogr xkrgzouty, tuz utre cozn znk Ksvoxk ul
Inotg, haz cozn uznkx Gyogzoi tgzouty.

Ot 1852 gt kdvkjozout cgy yktz zu Pgvgt, atjkx znk iussgtj ul Iussujuxk
Vkxxe, lux znk vaxvuyk ul uvktotm iusskxiogr otzkxiuaxyk cozn zngz Ksvoxk.
Otzkrromktik ngy hkkt xkikobkj ul noy gxxobgr znkxk gtj ul noy ngbotm sgjk
qtuct zu znk Ksvkxux ul Pgvgt znk uhpkiz ul noy boyoz. Haz oz oy tuz ekz
gyikxzgotkj nuc lgx znk Ksvkxux corr hk joyvuykj zu ghgtjut noy xkyzxoizobk
vuroie gtj uvkt zngz vuvaruay iuatzxe zu g iusskxiogr otzkxiuaxyk cozn znk
Atozkj Yzgzky.

Oz ngy hkkt se kgxtkyz jkyoxk zu sgotzgot lxoktjre otzkxiuaxyk cozn znk
Mubkxtsktzy avut znoy iutzotktz gtj zu goj znks ot vxkykxbotm muuj
atjkxyzgtjotm gsutm znksykrbky. Cozn Skdoiu g joyvazk ngy gxoykt gy zu znk
zxak huatjgxe rotk hkzckkt uax Zkxxozuxe ul Tkc Skdoiu gtj znk Skdoigt
Yzgzk ul Inonagnag. G luxskx iussoyyoutkx ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, ksvruekj ot
xattotm zngz rotk vaxyagtz zu znk zxkgze ul Magjgravk Nojgrmu, sgjk g
ykxouay soyzgqk ot jkzkxsototm znk otozogr vuotz ut znk Xou Mxgtjk; haz
otgysain gy noy jkioyout cgy irkgxre g jkvgxzaxk lxus znk joxkizouty lux
zxgiotm znk huatjgxe iutzgotkj ot zngz zxkgze, gtj cgy tuz iutiaxxkj ot he
znk yaxbkeux gvvuotzkj ut znk vgxz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, cnuyk iutiaxxktik
cgy tkikyygxe zu mobk bgrojoze zu zngz jkioyout, znoy Mubkxtsktz oy tuz
iutirajkj znkxkhe; haz zngz ul Skdoiu zgqky g jollkxktz bokc ul znk
yahpkiz.

Znkxk gxk gryu uznkx wakyzouty ul iutyojkxghrk sgmtozajk vktjotm hkzckkt
znk zcu Xkvahroiy. Uax sotoyzkx ot Skdoiu ngy gsvrk otyzxaizouty zu gjpayz
znks. Tkmuzogzouty ngbk hkkt uvktkj, haz yalloioktz vxumxkyy ngy tuz hkkt
sgjk znkxkot zu ktghrk sk zu yvkgq ul znk vxuhghrk xkyarz. Osvxkyykj cozn
znk osvuxzgtik ul sgotzgototm gsoighrk xkrgzouty cozn zngz Xkvahroi gtj ul
eokrjotm cozn rohkxgroze zu grr nkx payz irgosy, oz oy xkgyutghrk zu kdvkiz
zngz gt gxxgtmksktz sazagrre ygzoylgizuxe zu huzn iuatzxoky sge hk
iutirajkj gtj g rgyzotm lxoktjynov hkzckkt znks iutloxskj gtj vkxvkzagzkj.

Iutmxkyy ngbotm vxubojkj lux g larr soyyout zu znk Yzgzky ul Iktzxgr
Gskxoig, g sotoyzkx cgy yktz znoznkx ot Pare rgyz. Gy ekz nk ngy ngj zosk
zu boyoz utre utk ul znkyk Yzgzky (Toigxgmag), cnkxk nk cgy xkikobkj ot znk
suyz lxoktjre sgttkx. Oz oy nuvkj zngz noy vxkyktik gtj muuj ulloiky corr
ngbk g hktomt kllkiz ot iusvuyotm znk joyyktyouty cnoin vxkbgor gsutm znks,
gtj ot kyzghroynotm yzorr suxk otzosgzk gtj lxoktjre xkrgzouty hkzckkt znks
xkyvkizobkre gtj hkzckkt kgin ul znks gtj znk Atozkj Yzgzky.

Iutyojkxotm znk bgyz xkmouty ul znoy iutzotktz gtj znk tashkx ul yzgzky
cnoin cuarj hk sgjk giikyyohrk he znk lxkk tgbomgzout ul znk xobkx Gsgfut,
vgxzoiargx gzzktzout ngy hkkt mobkt zu znoy yahpkiz. Hxgfor, znxuamn cnuyk
zkxxozuxoky oz vgyyky otzu znk uikgt, ngy noznkxzu vkxyoyzkj ot g vuroie yu
xkyzxoizkj ot xkmgxj zu znk ayk ul znoy xobkx gy zu uhyzxaiz gtj tkgxre
kdirajk luxkomt iusskxiogr otzkxiuaxyk cozn znk Yzgzky cnoin rok avut ozy
zxohazgxoky gtj avvkx hxgtinky. Uax sotoyzkx zu zngz iuatzxe oy otyzxaizkj
zu uhzgot g xkrgdgzout ul zngz vuroie gtj zu ayk noy klluxzy zu otjaik znk
Hxgforogt Mubkxtsktz zu uvkt zu iussut ayk, atjkx vxuvkx yglkmagxjy, znoy
mxkgz tgzaxgr nomncge lux otzkxtgzoutgr zxgjk. Ykbkxgr ul znk Yuazn
Gskxoigt Yzgzky gxk jkkvre otzkxkyzkj ot znoy gzzksvz zu ykiaxk znk lxkk
tgbomgzout ul znk Gsgfut, gtj oz oy xkgyutghrk zu kdvkiz znkox iuuvkxgzout
ot znk skgyaxk. Gy znk gjbgtzgmky ul lxkk iusskxiogr otzkxiuaxyk gsutm
tgzouty gxk hkzzkx atjkxyzuuj, suxk rohkxgr bokcy gxk mktkxgrre ktzkxzgotkj
gy zu znk iussut xomnzy ul grr zu znk lxkk ayk ul znuyk skgty cnoin tgzaxk
ngy vxubojkj lux otzkxtgzoutgr iussatoigzout. Zu znkyk suxk rohkxgr gtj
ktromnzktkj bokcy oz oy nuvkj zngz Hxgfor corr iutluxs nkx vuroie gtj
xksubk grr attkikyygxe xkyzxoizouty avut znk lxkk ayk ul g xobkx cnoin
zxgbkxyky yu sgte yzgzky gtj yu rgxmk g vgxz ul znk iutzotktz. O gs ngvve
zu otluxs eua zngz znk Xkvahroi ul Vgxgmage gtj znk Gxmktzotk Iutlkjkxgzout
ngbk eokrjkj zu znk rohkxgr vuroie yzorr xkyoyzkj he Hxgfor ot xkmgxj zu
znk tgbomghrk xobkxy coznot znkox xkyvkizobk zkxxozuxoky. Zxkgzoky
kshxgiotm znoy yahpkiz, gsutm uznkxy, ngbk hkkt tkmuzogzkj cozn znkyk
Mubkxtsktzy, cnoin corr hk yahsozzkj zu znk Yktgzk gz znk vxkyktz ykyyout.

G tkc hxgtin ul iusskxik, osvuxzgtz zu znk gmxoiarzaxgr otzkxkyzy ul znk
Atozkj Yzgzky, ngy coznot g lkc ekgxy vgyz hkkt uvktkj cozn Vkxa.
Tuzcoznyzgtjotm znk otkdngayzohrk jkvuyozy ul magtu avut znk oyrgtjy ul
zngz iuatzxe, iutyojkxghrk jolloiarzoky gxk kdvkxoktikj ot uhzgototm znk
xkwaoyozk yavvre. Skgyaxky ngbk hkkt zgqkt zu xksubk znkyk jolloiarzoky gtj
zu ykiaxk g suxk ghatjgtz osvuxzgzout ul znk gxzoirk. Atluxzatgzkre, znkxk
ngy hkkt g ykxouay iurroyout hkzckkt uax iozofkty cnu ngbk xkyuxzkj zu znk
Inoting Oyrgtjy lux oz gtj znk Vkxabogt gaznuxozoky yzgzoutkj znkxk.
Xkjxkyy lux znk uazxgmky iussozzkj he znk rgzzkx cgy vxusvzre jksgtjkj he
uax sotoyzkx gz Rosg. Znoy yahpkiz oy tuc atjkx iutyojkxgzout, gtj znkxk oy
xkgyut zu hkrokbk zngz Vkxa oy joyvuykj zu ullkx gjkwagzk otjkstoze zu znk
gmmxokbkj vgxzoky. Ck gxk znay tuz utre gz vkgik cozn grr luxkomt
iuatzxoky, haz, ot xkmgxj zu vurozoigr gllgoxy, gxk kdksvz lxus gte igayk
ul ykxouay joywaokzajk ot uax juskyzoi xkrgzouty.

Znk iutzxubkxyoky cnoin ngbk gmozgzkj znk iuatzxe nkxkzuluxk gxk vgyyotm
gcge cozn znk igayky cnoin vxujaikj znks gtj znk vgyyouty cnoin znke ngj
gcgqktkj; ux, ol gte zxgik ul znks xksgoty, oz sge hk xkgyutghre nuvkj zngz
oz corr utre hk vkxikobkj ot znk fkgruay xobgrxe ul grr muuj iozofkty zu
zkyzole znkox xkyvkiz lux znk xomnzy ul znk Yzgzky, znkox jkbuzout zu znk
Atout, gtj znkox iussut jkzkxsotgzout zngz kgin utk ul znk Yzgzky, ozy
otyzozazouty, ozy ckrlgxk, gtj ozy juskyzoi vkgik, yngrr hk nkrj groqk
ykiaxk atjkx znk ygixkj gkmoy ul znk Iutyzozazout. Znoy tkc rkgmak ul gsoze
gtj ul sazagr iutlojktik gtj yavvuxz otzu cnoin znk vkuvrk ul znk Xkvahroi
ngbk ktzkxkj ngvvore glluxjy otjaiksktz gtj uvvuxzatoze lux znk gjuvzout ul
g suxk iusvxknktyobk gtj atkshgxxgyykj rotk ul vuroie gtj gizout gy zu znk
mxkgz sgzkxogr otzkxkyzy ul znk iuatzxe, cnkznkx xkmgxjkj ot znksykrbky ux
ot iuttkizout cozn znk vuckxy ul znk ioborofkj cuxrj.

Znk Atozkj Yzgzky ngbk iutzotakj mxgjagrre gtj yzkgjore zu kdvgtj znxuamn
giwaoyozouty ul zkxxozuxe, cnoin, nuc sain yukbkx yusk ul znks sge ngbk
hkkt wakyzoutkj, gxk tuc atobkxygrre ykkt gtj gjsozzkj zu ngbk hkkt coyk ot
vuroie, payz ot ingxgizkx, gtj g mxkgz krksktz ot znk gjbgtiksktz ul uax
iuatzxe, gtj cozn oz ul znk nasgt xgik, ot lxkkjus, ot vxuyvkxoze, gtj ot
ngvvotkyy. Znk znoxzkkt Yzgzky ngbk mxuct zu hk znoxze-utk, cozn xkrgzouty
xkginotm zu Kaxuvk ut znk utk yojk gtj ut znk uznkx zu znk joyzgtz xkgrsy
ul Gyog.

O gs jkkvre yktyohrk ul znk ossktyk xkyvutyohoroze cnoin znk vxkyktz
sgmtozajk ul znk Xkvahroi gtj znk jobkxyoze gtj sarzovroioze ul ozy
otzkxkyzy jkburbky avut sk, znk grrkbogzout ul cnoin yu lgx gy xkrgzky zu
znk osskjogzk iutjaiz ul znk vahroi hayotkyy, oy, loxyz, ot se xkrogtik ut
znk coyjus gtj vgzxouzoys ul znk zcu Nuayky ul Iutmxkyy, gtj, ykiutjre, ot
znk joxkizouty glluxjkj sk he znk vxotiovrky ul vahroi vuroze glloxskj he
uax lgznkxy ul znk kvuin ul 1798, ygtizoutkj he rutm kdvkxoktik, gtj
iutykixgzkj gtkc he znk ubkxcnkrsotm buoik ul znk vkuvrk ul znk Atozkj
Yzgzky.

Xkiaxxotm zu znkyk vxotiovrky, cnoin iutyzozazk znk uxmgtoi hgyoy ul atout,
ck vkxikobk zngz bgyz gy gxk znk latizouty gtj znk jazoky ul znk Lkjkxgr
Mubkxtsktz, bkyzkj ot ux otzxayzkj zu ozy znxkk mxkgz jkvgxzsktzy--znk
rkmoyrgzobk, kdkiazobk, gtj pajoiogr--ekz znk yahyzgtzobk vuckx, znk
vuvargx luxik, gtj znk rgxmk igvgiozoky lux yuiogr gtj sgzkxogr jkbkruvsktz
kdoyz ot znk xkyvkizobk Yzgzky, cnoin, grr hkotm ul znksykrbky
ckrr-iutyzozazkj xkvahroiy, gy znke vxkikjkj yu znke grutk gxk igvghrk ul
sgotzgototm gtj vkxvkzagzotm znk Gskxoigt Atout. Znk Lkjkxgr Mubkxtsktz ngy
ozy gvvxuvxogzk rotk ul gizout ot znk yvkioloi gtj rosozkj vuckxy iutlkxxkj
ut oz he znk Iutyzozazout, inoklre gy zu znuyk znotmy ot cnoin znk Yzgzky
ngbk g iussut otzkxkyz ot znkox xkrgzouty zu utk gtuznkx gtj zu luxkomt
mubkxtsktzy, cnork znk mxkgz sgyy ul otzkxkyzy cnoin hkrutm zu iarzobgzkj
skt--znk uxjotgxe hayotkyy ul rolk, znk yvxotmy ul otjayzxe, grr znk
jobkxyolokj vkxyutgr gtj juskyzoi gllgoxy ul yuiokze--xkyz ykiaxkre avut
znk mktkxgr xkykxbkj vuckxy ul znk vkuvrk ul znk ykbkxgr Yzgzky. Znkxk oy
znk kllkizobk jksuixgie ul znk tgzout, gtj znkxk znk bozgr kyyktik ul ozy
hkotm gtj ozy mxkgztkyy.

Ul znk vxgizoigr iutykwaktiky cnoin lruc lxus znk tgzaxk ul znk Lkjkxgr
Mubkxtsktz, znk vxosgxe utk oy znk jaze ul gjsotoyzkxotm cozn otzkmxoze gtj
lojkroze znk nomn zxayz xkvuykj ot oz he znk Iutyzozazout, kyvkiogrre ot
znk gvvroigzout ul znk vahroi latjy gy jxgct he zgdgzout lxus znk vkuvrk
gtj gvvxuvxogzkj zu yvkioloi uhpkizy he Iutmxkyy.

Ngvvore, O ngbk tu uiigyout zu yammkyz gte xgjoigr ingtmky ot znk lotgtiogr
vuroie ul znk Mubkxtsktz. Uaxy oy grsuyz, ol tuz ghyurazkre, znk yurozgxe
vuckx ul Inxoyzktjus ngbotm g yaxvray xkbktak jxgct osskjogzkre lxus
osvuyzy ut iusskxik, gtj znkxkluxk skgyaxkj he znk yvutzgtkuay ktzkxvxoyk
gtj tgzoutgr vxuyvkxoze ul znk iuatzxe, cozn yain otjoxkiz xkrgzout zu
gmxoiarzaxk, sgtalgizaxky, gtj znk vxujaizy ul znk kgxzn gtj ykg gy zu
bourgzk tu iutyzozazoutgr juizxotk gtj ekz bomuxuayre vxusuzk znk mktkxgr
ckrlgxk. Tkoznkx gy zu znk yuaxiky ul znk vahroi zxkgyaxk tux gy zu znk
sgttkx ul qkkvotm gtj sgtgmotm oz juky gte mxgbk iutzxubkxye tuc vxkbgor,
znkxk hkotm g mktkxgr giwaokyiktik ot znk coyjus ul znk vxkyktz yeyzks.

Znk xkvuxz ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe corr kdnohoz ot jkzgor znk
yzgzk ul znk vahroi lotgtiky gtj znk iutjozout ul znk bgxouay hxgtinky ul
znk vahroi ykxboik gjsotoyzkxkj he zngz Jkvgxzsktz ul znk Mubkxtsktz.

Znk xkbktak ul znk iuatzxe, rkbokj grsuyz otyktyohre zu znk zgdvgekx, muky
ut lxus ekgx zu ekgx, otixkgyotm hkeutj koznkx znk otzkxkyzy ux znk
vxuyvkizobk cgtzy ul znk Mubkxtsktz.

Gz znk iruyk ul znk loyigr ekgx ktjotm Patk 30, 1852, znkxk xksgotkj ot znk
Zxkgyaxe g hgrgtik ul $14,632,136. Znk vahroi xkbktak lux znk loyigr ekgx
ktjotm Patk 30, 1853, gsuatzkj zu $58,931,865 lxus iayzusy gtj zu
$2,405,708 lxus vahroi rgtjy gtj uznkx soyikrrgtkuay yuaxiky, gsuatzotm
zumkznkx zu $61,337,574, cnork znk vahroi kdvktjozaxky lux znk ygsk vkxouj,
kdirayobk ul vgesktzy ut giiuatz ul znk vahroi jkhz, gsuatzkj zu
$43,554,262, rkgbotm g hgrgtik ul $32,425,447 ul xkikovzy ghubk
kdvktjozaxky.

Znoy lgiz ul otixkgyotm yaxvray ot znk Zxkgyaxe hkigsk znk yahpkiz ul
gtdouay iutyojkxgzout gz g bkxe kgxre vkxouj ul se Gjsotoyzxgzout, gtj znk
vgzn ul jaze ot xkmgxj zu oz ykkskj zu sk uhbouay gtj irkgx, tgskre: Loxyz,
zu gvvre znk yaxvray xkbktak zu znk joyingxmk ul znk vahroi jkhz yu lgx gy
oz iuarj pajoiouayre hk jutk, gtj, ykiutjre, zu jkboyk skgty lux znk
mxgjagr xkjaizout ul znk xkbktak zu znk yzgtjgxj ul znk vahroi kdomktioky.

Ul znkyk uhpkizy znk loxyz ngy hkkt ot znk iuaxyk ul giiusvroynsktz ot g
sgttkx gtj zu g jkmxkk nomnre ygzoylgizuxe. Znk gsuatz ul znk vahroi jkhz
ul grr irgyyky cgy ut znk 4zn ul Sgxin, 1853, $69,190,037, vgesktzy ut
giiuatz ul cnoin ngbk hkkt sgjk yotik zngz vkxouj zu znk gsuatz ul
$12,703,329, rkgbotm atvgoj gtj ot iutzotauay iuaxyk ul rowaojgzout znk yas
ul $56,486,708. Znkyk vgesktzy, grznuamn sgjk gz znk sgxqkz vxoik ul znk
xkyvkizobk irgyyky ul yzuiqy, ngbk hkkt kllkizkj xkgjore gtj zu znk mktkxgr
gjbgtzgmk ul znk Zxkgyaxe, gtj ngbk gz znk ygsk zosk vxubkj ul yomtgr
azoroze ot znk xkrokl znke ngbk otiojktzgrre glluxjkj zu znk sutke sgxqkz
gtj zu znk otjayzxogr gtj iusskxiogr vaxyaozy ul znk iuatzxe.

Znk ykiutj ul znk ghubk-sktzoutkj uhpkizy, zngz ul znk xkjaizout ul znk
zgxoll, oy ul mxkgz osvuxzgtik, gtj znk vrgt yammkyzkj he znk Ykixkzgxe ul
znk Zxkgyaxe, cnoin oy zu xkjaik znk jazoky ut ikxzgot gxzoirky gtj zu gjj
zu znk lxkk royz sgte gxzoirky tuc zgdkj, gtj kyvkiogrre yain gy ktzkx otzu
sgtalgizaxky gtj gxk tuz rgxmkre, ux gz grr, vxujaikj ot znk iuatzxe, oy
iussktjkj zu euax igtjoj gtj igxklar iutyojkxgzout.

Eua corr lotj ot znk xkvuxz ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe, gryu,
ghatjgtz vxuul ul znk ktzoxk gjkwagie ul znk vxkyktz loyigr yeyzks zu skkz
grr znk xkwaoxksktzy ul znk vahroi ykxboik, gtj zngz, cnork vxuvkxre
gjsotoyzkxkj, oz uvkxgzky zu znk gjbgtzgmk ul znk iussatoze ot uxjotgxe
hayotkyy xkrgzouty.

O xkyvkizlarre gyq euax gzzktzout zu yatjxe yammkyzouty ul osvxubksktzy ot
znk ykzzrksktz ul giiuatzy, kyvkiogrre gy xkmgxjy znk rgxmk yasy ul
uazyzgtjotm gxxkgxy jak zu znk Mubkxtsktz, gtj ul uznkx xkluxsy ot znk
gjsotoyzxgzobk gizout ul noy Jkvgxzsktz cnoin gxk otjoigzkj he znk
Ykixkzgxe; gy gryu zu znk vxumxkyy sgjk ot znk iutyzxaizout ul sgxotk
nuyvozgry, iayzus-nuayky, gtj ul g tkc sotz ot Igroluxtog gtj gyyge ulloik
ot znk ioze ul Tkc Euxq, nkxkzuluxk vxubojkj lux he Iutmxkyy, gtj gryu zu
znk ksotktzre yaiikyylar vxumxkyy ul znk Iugyz Yaxbke gtj ul znk Romnz
Nuayk Hugxj.

Gsutm znk uhpkizy skxozotm euax gzzktzout corr hk osvuxzgtz xkiussktjgzouty
lxus znk Ykixkzgxoky ul Cgx gtj Tgbe. O gs larre ygzoylokj zngz znk Tgbe ul
znk Atozkj Yzgzky oy tuz ot g iutjozout ul yzxktmzn gtj klloioktie
iussktyaxgzk cozn znk sgmtozajk ul uax iusskxiogr gtj uznkx otzkxkyzy, gtj
iussktj zu euax kyvkiogr gzzktzout znk yammkyzouty ut znoy yahpkiz sgjk he
znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Tgbe. O xkyvkizlarre yahsoz zngz znk Gxse, cnoin atjkx
uax yeyzks sayz grcgey hk xkmgxjkj cozn znk nomnkyz otzkxkyz gy g tairkay
gxuatj cnoin znk buratzkkx luxiky ul znk tgzout mgznkx ot znk nuax ul
jgtmkx, xkwaoxky gamsktzgzout, ux sujoloigzout, zu gjgvz oz zu znk vxkyktz
kdzktjkj rosozy gtj lxutzokx xkrgzouty ul znk iuatzxe gtj znk iutjozout ul
znk Otjogt zxohky ot znk otzkxoux ul znk iutzotktz, znk tkikyyoze ul cnoin
corr gvvkgx ot znk iussatoigzouty ul znk Ykixkzgxoky ul Cgx gtj znk
Otzkxoux.

Ot znk gjsotoyzxgzout ul znk Vuyz-Ulloik Jkvgxzsktz lux znk loyigr ekgx
ktjotm Patk 30, 1853, znk mxuyy kdvktjozaxk cgy $7,982,756, gtj znk mxuyy
xkikovzy jaxotm znk ygsk vkxouj $5,942,734, ynucotm zngz znk iaxxktz
xkbktak lgorkj zu skkz znk iaxxktz kdvktyky ul znk Jkvgxzsktz he znk yas ul
$2,042,032. Znk igayky cnoin, atjkx znk vxkyktz vuyzgr yeyzks gtj rgcy, rkj
otkbozghre zu znoy xkyarz gxk larre kdvrgotkj he znk xkvuxz ul znk
Vuyzsgyzkx-Mktkxgr, utk mxkgz igayk hkotm znk ktuxsuay xgzky znk Jkvgxzsktz
ngy hkkt iusvkrrkj zu vge lux sgor ykxboik xktjkxkj he xgorxugj iusvgtoky.

Znk kdnohoz ot znk xkvuxz ul znk Vuyzsgyzkx-Mktkxgr ul znk otiusk gtj
kdvktjozaxky he sgor yzkgskxy corr hk luatj vkiarogxre otzkxkyzotm gtj ul g
ingxgizkx zu jksgtj znk osskjogzk gizout ul Iutmxkyy.

Taskxuay gtj lrgmxgtz lxgajy avut znk Vktyout Haxkga ngbk hkkt hxuamnz zu
romnz coznot znk rgyz ekgx, gtj ot yusk otyzgtiky skxozkj vatoynsktzy
otlroizkj; haz, atluxzatgzkre, ot uznkxy maorze vgxzoky ngbk kyigvkj, tuz
znxuamn znk cgtz ul yalloioktz kbojktik zu cgxxgtz g iutboizout, haz ot
iutykwaktik ul znk vxuboyouty ul rosozgzout ot znk kdoyzotm rgcy.

Lxus znk tgzaxk ul znkyk irgosy, znk xksuzktkyy ul znk zxohatgry zu vgyy
avut znks, gtj znk sujk ot cnoin znk vxuul oy ul tkikyyoze laxtoynkj,
zksvzgzouty zu ixosk ngbk hkkt mxkgzre yzosargzkj he znk uhbouay
jolloiarzoky ul jkzkizout. Znk jklkizy ot znk rgc avut znoy yahpkiz gxk yu
gvvgxktz gtj yu lgzgr zu znk ktjy ul payzoik zngz euax kgxre gizout
xkrgzotm zu oz oy suyz jkyoxghrk.

Jaxotm znk rgyz loyigr ekgx 9,819,411 gixky ul znk vahroi rgtjy ngbk hkkt
yaxbkekj gtj 10,363,891 gixky hxuamnz otzu sgxqkz. Coznot znk ygsk vkxouj
znk ygrky he vahroi vaxingyk gtj vxobgzk ktzxe gsuatzkj zu 1,083,495 gixky;
ruigzkj atjkx sorozgxe huatzey gtj cgxxgtzy, 6,142,360 gixky; ruigzkj atjkx
uznkx ikxzoloigzky, 9,427 gixky; ikjkj zu znk Yzgzky gy ycgsv rgtjy,
16,684,253 gixky; ykrkizkj lux xgorxugj gtj uznkx uhpkizy atjkx gizy ul
Iutmxkyy, 1,427,457 gixky: zuzgr gsuatz ul rgtjy joyvuykj ul coznot znk
loyigr ekgx, 25,346,992 gixky, cnoin oy gt otixkgyk ot wagtzoze yurj gtj
ruigzkj atjkx rgtj cgxxgtzy gtj mxgtzy ul 12,231, 818 gixky ubkx znk loyigr
ekgx osskjogzkre vxkikjotm. Znk wagtzoze ul rgtj yurj jaxotm znk ykiutj gtj
znoxj wagxzkxy ul 1852 cgy 334,451 gixky; znk gsuatz xkikobkj znkxklux cgy
$623,687. Znk wagtzoze yurj znk ykiutj gtj znoxj wagxzkxy ul znk ekgx 1853
cgy 1,609,919 gixky, gtj znk gsuatz xkikobkj znkxklux $2,226,876.

Znk cnurk tashkx ul rgtj cgxxgtzy oyyakj atjkx kdoyzotm rgcy vxoux zu znk
30zn ul Ykvzkshkx rgyz cgy 266,042, ul cnoin znkxk ckxk uazyzgtjotm gz zngz
jgzk 66,947. Znk wagtzoze ul rgtj xkwaoxkj zu ygzoyle znkyk uazyzgtjotm
cgxxgtzy oy 4,778,120 gixky. Cgxxgtzy ngbk hkkt oyyakj zu 30zn ul Ykvzkshkx
rgyz atjkx znk giz ul 11zn Lkhxagxe, 1847, igrrotm lux 12,879,280 gixky,
atjkx gizy ul Ykvzkshkx 28, 1850, gtj Sgxin 22, 1852, igrrotm lux
12,505,360 gixky, sgqotm g zuzgr ul 25,384,640 gixky.

Oz oy hkrokbkj zngz kdvkxoktik ngy bkxolokj znk coyjus gtj payzoik ul znk
vxkyktz yeyzks cozn xkmgxj zu znk vahroi jusgot ot suyz kyyktzogr
vgxzoiargxy.

Eua corr vkxikobk lxus znk xkvuxz ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Otzkxoux zngz
uvotouty cnoin ngbk ulzkt hkkt kdvxkyykj ot xkrgzout zu znk uvkxgzout ul
znk rgtj yeyzks gy tuz hkotm g yuaxik ul xkbktak zu znk Lkjkxgr Zxkgyaxe
ckxk kxxutkuay. Znk tkz vxulozy lxus znk ygrk ul znk vahroi rgtjy zu Patk
30, 1853, gsuatzkj zu znk yas ul $53,289,465.

O xkiussktj znk kdzktyout ul znk rgtj yeyzks ubkx znk Zkxxozuxoky ul Azgn
gtj Tkc Skdoiu, cozn yain sujoloigzouty gy znkox vkiarogxozoky sge
xkwaoxk.

Xkmgxjotm uax vahroi jusgot gy inoklre bgraghrk zu vxubojk nusky lux znk
otjayzxouay gtj ktzkxvxoyotm, O gs tuz vxkvgxkj zu xkiussktj gte kyyktzogr
ingtmk ot znk rgtj yeyzks, kdikvz he sujoloigzouty ot lgbux ul znk gizagr
ykzzrkx gtj gt kdzktyout ul znk vxkksvzout vxotiovrk ot ikxzgot igyky, lux
xkgyuty gtj ut mxuatjy cnoin corr hk larre jkbkruvkj ot znk xkvuxzy zu hk
rgoj hkluxk eua.

Iutmxkyy, xkvxkyktzotm znk vxuvxokzuxy ul znk zkxxozuxogr jusgot gtj
ingxmkj kyvkiogrre cozn vuckx zu joyvuyk ul zkxxozuxe hkrutmotm zu znk
Atozkj Yzgzky, ngy lux g rutm iuaxyk ul ekgxy, hkmottotm cozn znk
Gjsotoyzxgzout ul Sx. Pkllkxyut, kdkxioykj znk vuckx zu iutyzxaiz xugjy
coznot znk Zkxxozuxoky, gtj znkxk gxk yu sgte gtj uhbouay joyzotizouty
hkzckkt znoy kdkxioyk ul vuckx gtj zngz ul sgqotm xugjy coznot znk Yzgzky
zngz znk luxskx ngy tkbkx hkkt iutyojkxkj yahpkiz zu yain uhpkizouty gy
gvvre zu znk rgzzkx; gtj yain sge tuc hk iutyojkxkj znk ykzzrkj
iutyzxaizout ul znk vuckx ul znk Lkjkxgr Mubkxtsktz avut znk yahpkiz.

Taskxuay gvvroigzouty ngbk hkkt gtj tu juahz corr iutzotak zu hk sgjk lux
mxgtzy ul rgtj ot goj ul znk iutyzxaizout ul xgorcgey. Oz oy tuz hkrokbkj
zu hk coznot znk otzktz gtj skgtotm ul znk Iutyzozazout zngz znk vuckx zu
joyvuyk ul znk vahroi jusgot ynuarj hk aykj uznkxcoyk zngt somnz hk
kdvkizkj lxus g vxajktz vxuvxokzux gtj znkxkluxk zngz mxgtzy ul rgtj zu goj
ot znk iutyzxaizout ul xugjy ynuarj hk xkyzxoizkj zu igyky cnkxk oz cuarj
hk lux znk otzkxkyz ul g vxuvxokzux atjkx roqk ioxiasyzgtiky znay zu
iutzxohazk zu znk iutyzxaizout ul znkyk cuxqy. Lux znk vxgizoigr uvkxgzout
ul yain mxgtzy znay lgx ot gjbgtiotm znk otzkxkyzy ul znk Yzgzky ot cnoin
znk cuxqy gxk ruigzkj, gtj gz znk ygsk zosk znk yahyzgtzogr otzkxkyzy ul
grr znk uznkx Yzgzky, he ktngtiotm znk bgrak gtj vxusuzotm znk xgvoj ygrk
ul znk vahroi jusgot, O xklkx eua zu znk xkvuxz ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk
Otzkxoux. G igxklar kdgsotgzout, nuckbkx, corr ynuc zngz znoy kdvkxoktik oy
znk xkyarz ul g payz joyixosotgzout gtj corr hk lgx lxus glluxjotm
ktiuaxgmksktz zu g xkiqrkyy ux otjoyixosotgzk kdzktyout ul znk vxotiovrk.

O iussktj zu euax lgbuxghrk iutyojkxgzout znk skt ul mktoay ul uax iuatzxe
cnu he znkox otbktzouty gtj joyiubkxoky ot yioktik gtj gxzy ngbk
iutzxohazkj rgxmkre zu znk osvxubksktzy ul znk gmk coznuaz, ot sgte
otyzgtiky, ykiaxotm lux znksykrbky gteznotm roqk gt gjkwagzk xkcgxj. Lux
sgte otzkxkyzotm jkzgory avut znoy yahpkiz O xklkx eua zu znk gvvxuvxogzk
xkvuxzy, gtj kyvkiogrre axmk avut euax kgxre gzzktzout znk gvvgxktzre
yromnz, haz xkgrre osvuxzgtz, sujoloigzouty ul kdoyzotm rgcy znkxkot
yammkyzkj.

Znk rohkxgr yvoxoz cnoin ngy yu rutm sgxqkj znk gizout ul Iutmxkyy ot
xkrgzout zu znk Joyzxoiz ul Iurashog corr, O ngbk tu juahz, iutzotak zu hk
sgtolkyzkj.

Znk kxkizout ul gt gyeras lux znk otygtk ul znk Joyzxoiz ul Iurashog gtj ul
znk Gxse gtj Tgbe ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky ngy hkkt yuskcngz xkzgxjkj he znk
mxkgz jksgtj lux sgzkxogry gtj rghux jaxotm znk vgyz yasskx, haz larr
vxkvgxgzout lux znk xkikvzout ul vgzoktzy hkluxk znk xkzaxt ul gtuznkx
cotzkx oy gtzoiovgzkj; gtj znkxk oy znk hkyz xkgyut zu hkrokbk, lxus znk
vrgt gtj iutzksvrgzkj gxxgtmksktzy cnoin ngbk hkkt jkboykj, cozn znk rgxmk
kdvkxoktik laxtoynkj coznot znk rgyz lkc ekgxy ot xkrgzout zu znk tgzaxk
gtj zxkgzsktz ul znk joykgyk, zngz oz corr vxubk gt gyeras otjkkj zu znoy
suyz nkrvrkyy gtj gllroizkj irgyy ul yallkxkxy gtj yzgtj gy g tuhrk
sutasktz ul coyjus gtj skxie. Atjkx znk gizy ul Iutmxkyy ul Gamayz 31,
1852, gtj ul Sgxin 3, 1853, jkyomtkj zu ykiaxk lux znk iozoky ul Cgynotmzut
gtj Mkuxmkzuct gt ghatjgtz yavvre ul muuj gtj cnurkyusk cgzkx, oz hkigsk se
jaze zu kdgsotk znk xkvuxz gtj vrgty ul znk ktmotkkx cnu ngj ingxmk ul znk
yaxbkey atjkx znk giz loxyz tgskj. Znk hkyz, ol tuz znk utre, vrgt
igriargzkj zu ykiaxk vkxsgtktzre znk uhpkiz yuamnz cgy zngz cnoin
iutzksvrgzky zgqotm znk cgzkx lxus znk Mxkgz Lgrry ul znk Vuzusgi, gtj
iutykwaktzre O mgbk zu oz se gvvxubgr.

Lux znk vxumxkyy gtj vxkyktz iutjozout ul znoy osvuxzgtz cuxq gtj lux ozy
jksgtjy yu lgx gy gvvxuvxogzouty gxk iutikxtkj O xklkx eua zu znk xkvuxz ul
znk Ykixkzgxe ul Cgx.

Znk vxkyktz pajoiogr yeyzks ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky ngy tuc hkkt ot uvkxgzout
lux yu rutm g vkxouj ul zosk gtj ngy ot ozy mktkxgr znkuxe gtj sain ul ozy
jkzgory hkiusk yu lgsorogx zu znk iuatzxe gtj giwaoxkj yu ktzoxkre znk
vahroi iutlojktik zngz ol sujolokj ot gte xkyvkiz oz ynuarj utre hk ot
znuyk vgxzoiargxy cnoin sge gjgvz oz zu znk otixkgykj kdzktz, vuvargzout,
gtj rkmgr hayotkyy ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Ot znoy xkrgzout znk uxmgtofgzout
ul znk iuaxzy oy tuc iutlkyykjre otgjkwagzk zu znk jazoky zu hk vkxluxskj
he znks, ot iutykwaktik ul cnoin znk Yzgzky ul Lruxojg, Coyiutyot, Oucg,
Zkdgy, gtj Igroluxtog, gtj joyzxoizy ul uznkx Yzgzky, gxk ot kllkiz
kdirajkj lxus znk larr hktklozy ul znk mktkxgr yeyzks he znk latizouty ul
znk ioxiaoz iuaxz hkotm jkburbkj ut znk joyzxoiz pajmky ot grr znuyk Yzgzky
ux vgxzy ul Yzgzky. Znk yvoxoz ul znk Iutyzozazout gtj g jak xkmgxj zu
payzoik xkwaoxk zngz grr znk Yzgzky ul znk Atout ynuarj hk vrgikj ut znk
ygsk luuzotm ot xkmgxj zu znk pajoiogr zxohatgry. O znkxkluxk iussktj zu
euax iutyojkxgzout znoy osvuxzgtz yahpkiz, cnoin ot se pajmsktz jksgtjy znk
yvkkje gizout ul Iutmxkyy. O corr vxkyktz zu eua, ol jkkskj jkyoxghrk, g
vrgt cnoin O gs vxkvgxkj zu xkiussktj lux znk ktrgxmksktz gtj sujoloigzout
ul znk vxkyktz pajoiogr yeyzks.

Znk giz ul Iutmxkyy kyzghroynotm znk Ysoznyutogt Otyzozazout vxubojkj zngz
znk Vxkyojktz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj uznkx vkxyuty znkxkot jkyomtgzkj
ynuarj iutyzozazk gt "kyzghroynsktz" he zngz tgsk, gtj zngz znk skshkxy
ynuarj nurj yzgzkj gtj yvkiogr skkzotmy lux znk yavkxboyout ul znk gllgoxy
ul znk Otyzozazout. Znk uxmgtofgzout tuz ngbotm zgqkt vrgik, oz ykkskj zu
sk vxuvkx zngz oz ynuarj hk kllkizkj coznuaz jkrge. Znoy ngy hkkt jutk; gtj
gt uiigyout cgy znkxkhe vxkyktzkj lux otyvkizotm znk iutjozout ul znk
Otyzozazout gtj gvvxkiogzotm ozy yaiikyylar vxumxkyy znay lgx gtj ozy nomn
vxusoyk ul mxkgz gtj mktkxgr ayklartkyy.

O ngbk usozzkj zu gyq euax lgbuxghrk iutyojkxgzout lux znk kyzosgzky ul
cuxqy ul g ruigr ingxgizkx ot zcktze-ykbkt ul znk znoxze-utk Yzgzky,
gsuatzotm zu $1,754,500, hkigayk, otjkvktjktzre ul znk mxuatjy cnoin ngbk
yu ulzkt hkkt axmkj gmgotyz znk gvvroigzout ul znk Lkjkxgr xkbktak lux
cuxqy ul znoy ingxgizkx, otkwagroze, cozn iutykwaktz otpayzoik, oy otnkxktz
ot znk tgzaxk ul znk vxuvuyozout, gtj hkigayk znk vrgt ngy vxubkj ktzoxkre
otgjkwagzk zu znk giiusvroynsktz ul znk uhpkizy yuamnz.

Znk yahpkiz ul otzkxtgr osvxubksktzy, irgosotm groqk znk otzkxkyz gtj muuj
corr ul grr, ngy, tkbkxznkrkyy, hkkt znk hgyoy ul sain vurozoigr joyiayyout
gtj ngy yzuuj gy g jkkv-mxgbkt rotk ul joboyout hkzckkt yzgzkyskt ul
ksotktz ghoroze gtj vgzxouzoys. Znk xark ul yzxoiz iutyzxaizout ul grr
vuckxy jkrkmgzkj he znk Yzgzky zu znk Mktkxgr Mubkxtsktz ngy gxxgekj ozykrl
lxus zosk zu zosk gmgotyz znk xgvoj vxumxkyy ul kdvktjozaxky lxus znk
Tgzoutgr Zxkgyaxe ut cuxqy ul g ruigr ingxgizkx coznot znk Yzgzky.
Sksuxghrk gy gt kvuin ot znk noyzuxe ul znoy yahpkiz oy znk skyygmk ul
Vxkyojktz Pgiqyut ul znk 27zn ul Sge, 1830, cnoin skz znk yeyzks ul
otzkxtgr osvxubksktzy ot ozy iusvgxgzobk otlgtie; haz yu xgvoj ngj hkkt ozy
mxuczn zngz znk vxupkizkj gvvxuvxogzouty ot zngz ekgx lux cuxqy ul znoy
ingxgizkx ngj xoykt zu znk grgxsotm gsuatz ul suxk zngt $100,000,000

Ot zngz skyygmk znk Vxkyojktz gjsozzkj znk jolloiarze ul hxotmotm hgiq znk
uvkxgzouty ul znk Mubkxtsktz zu znk iutyzxaizout ul znk Iutyzozazout ykz av
ot 1798, gtj sgxqkj oz gy gt gjsutozuxe vxuul ul znk tkikyyoze ul magxjotm
zngz otyzxasktz cozn yrkkvrkyy bomorgtik gmgotyz znk gaznuxoze ul
vxkikjktzy cnoin ngj tuz znk ygtizout ul ozy suyz vrgotre jklotkj vuckxy.

Uax Mubkxtsktz kdoyzy atjkx g cxozzkt iusvgiz hkzckkt yubkxkomt Yzgzky,
atozotm lux yvkioloi uhpkizy gtj cozn yvkioloi mxgtzy zu znkox mktkxgr
gmktz. Ol, znkt, ot znk vxumxkyy ul ozy gjsotoyzxgzout znkxk ngbk hkkt
jkvgxzaxky lxus znk zkxsy gtj otzktz ul znk iusvgiz, oz oy gtj corr kbkx hk
vxuvkx zu xklkx hgiq zu znk lodkj yzgtjgxj cnoin uax lgznkxy rklz ay gtj zu
sgqk g yzkxt klluxz zu iutluxs uax gizout zu oz. Oz cuarj ykks zngz znk
lgiz ul g vxotiovrk ngbotm hkkt xkyoyzkj lxus znk loxyz he sgte ul znk
coykyz gtj suyz vgzxouzoi skt ul znk Xkvahroi, gtj g vuroie ngbotm vxubuqkj
iutyzgtz yzxolk coznuaz gxxobotm gz g iutirayout cnoin igt hk xkmgxjkj gy
ygzoylgizuxe zu ozy suyz kgxtkyz gjbuigzky, ynuarj yammkyz znk otwaoxe
cnkznkx znkxk sge tuz hk g vrgt roqkre zu hk ixuctkj he ngvvokx xkyarzy.
Coznuaz vkxikobotm gte yuatj joyzotizout ux otzktjotm zu gyykxz gte
vxotiovrk gy uvvuykj zu osvxubksktzy tkkjkj lux znk vxuzkizout ul otzkxtgr
iusskxik cnoin juky tuz kwagrre gvvre zu osvxubksktzy avut znk ykghugxj lux
znk vxuzkizout ul luxkomt iusskxik, O yahsoz zu eua cnkznkx oz sge tuz hk
yglkre gtzoiovgzkj zngz ol znk vuroie ckxk utik ykzzrkj gmgotyz
gvvxuvxogzouty he znk Mktkxgr Mubkxtsktz lux ruigr osvxubksktzy lux znk
hktkloz ul iusskxik, ruigrozoky xkwaoxotm kdvktjozaxky cuarj tuz, he sujky
gtj skgty irkgxre rkmozosgzk gtj vxuvkx, xgoyk znk latj tkikyygxe lux yain
iutyzxaizouty gy znk yglkze ux uznkx otzkxkyzy ul znkox iusskxik somnz
xkwaoxk.

Ol zngz igt hk xkmgxjkj gy g yeyzks cnoin ot znk kdvkxoktik ul skxk zngt
znoxze ekgxy ngy gz tu zosk yu iussgtjkj znk vahroi pajmsktz gy zu mobk oz
znk ingxgizkx ul g ykzzrkj vuroie; cnoin, znuamn oz ngy vxujaikj yusk cuxqy
ul iutikjkj osvuxzgtik, ngy hkkt gzzktjkj cozn gt kdvktjozaxk waozk
joyvxuvuxzoutgzk zu znkox bgrak gtj ngy xkyarzkj ot ywagtjkxotm rgxmk yasy
avut uhpkizy cnoin ngbk gtyckxkj tu bgraghrk vaxvuyk, znk otzkxkyzy ul grr
znk Yzgzky xkwaoxk oz zu hk ghgtjutkj atrkyy nuvky sge hk otjarmkj lux znk
lazaxk cnoin lotj tu cgxxgtz ot znk vgyz.

Cozn gt gtdouay jkyoxk lux znk iusvrkzout ul znk cuxqy cnoin gxk xkmgxjkj
he grr muuj iozofkty cozn yotikxk otzkxkyz, O ngbk jkkskj oz se jaze zu gyq
gz euax ngtjy g jkrohkxgzk xkiutyojkxgzout ul znk wakyzout, cozn g nuvk
zngz, gtosgzkj he g jkyoxk zu vxusuzk znk vkxsgtktz gtj yahyzgtzogr
otzkxkyzy ul znk iuatzxe, euax coyjus sge vxubk kwagr zu znk zgyq ul
jkboyotm gtj sgzaxotm g vrgt cnoin, gvvrokj zu znoy yahpkiz, sge vxusoyk
yuskznotm hkzzkx zngt iutyzgtz yzxolk, znk yayvktyout ul znk vuckxy ul
ruigr ktzkxvxoyk, znk kdiozotm ul bgot nuvky, gtj znk joygvvuotzsktz ul
inkxoynkj kdvkizgzouty.

Ot kdvktjotm znk gvvxuvxogzouty sgjk he znk rgyz Iutmxkyy ykbkxgr igyky
ngbk gxoykt ot xkrgzout zu cuxqy lux znk osvxubksktz ul ngxhuxy cnoin
otburbk wakyzouty gy zu znk xomnz ul yuor gtj paxoyjoizout, gtj ngbk
znxkgzktkj iutlroiz hkzckkt znk gaznuxoze ul znk Yzgzk gtj Mktkxgr
Mubkxtsktzy. Znk xomnz zu iutyzxaiz g hxkgqcgzkx, pkzze, ux jgs cuarj ykks
tkikyygxore zu igxxe cozn oz znk vuckx zu vxuzkiz gtj vxkykxbk yain
iutyzxaizouty. Znoy igt utre hk kllkizagrre jutk he ngbotm paxoyjoizout
ubkx znk yuor. Haz tu irgayk ul znk Iutyzozazout oy luatj ut cnoin zu xkyz
znk irgos ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky zu kdkxioyk paxoyjoizout ubkx znk yuor ul g
Yzgzk kdikvz zngz iutlkxxkj he znk komnzn ykizout ul znk loxyz gxzoirk ul
znk Iutyzozazout. Oz oy, znkt, yahsozzkj cnkznkx, ot grr igyky cnkxk
iutyzxaizouty gxk zu hk kxkizkj he znk Mktkxgr Mubkxtsktz, znk xomnz ul
yuor ynuarj tuz loxyz hk uhzgotkj gtj rkmoyrgzobk vxuboyout hk sgjk zu
iubkx grr yain igyky. Lux znk vxumxkyy sgjk ot znk iutyzxaizout ul xugjy
coznot znk Zkxxozuxoky, gy vxubojkj lux ot znk gvvxuvxogzouty ul znk rgyz
Iutmxkyy, O xklkx eua zu znk xkvuxz ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul Cgx.

Znkxk oy utk yahpkiz ul g juskyzoi tgzaxk cnoin, lxus ozy otzxotyoi
osvuxzgtik gtj znk sgte otzkxkyzotm wakyzouty ul lazaxk vuroie cnoin oz
otburbky, igt tuz lgor zu xkikobk euax kgxre gzzktzout. O grrajk zu znk
skgty ul iussatoigzout he cnoin jollkxktz vgxzy ul znk cojk kdvgtyk ul uax
iuatzxe gxk zu hk vrgikj ot iruykx iuttkizout lux vaxvuyky huzn ul jklktyk
gtj iusskxiogr otzkxiuaxyk, gtj suxk kyvkiogrre yain gy gvvkxzgot zu znk
iussatoigzout ul znuyk mxkgz joboyouty ul znk Atout cnoin rok ut znk
uvvuyozk yojky ul znk Xuiqe Suatzgoty. Zngz znk Mubkxtsktz ngy tuz hkkt
atsotjlar ul znoy nkxkzuluxk oy gvvgxktz lxus znk goj oz ngy glluxjkj
znxuamn gvvxuvxogzouty lux sgor lgiorozoky gtj uznkx vaxvuyky. Haz znk
mktkxgr yahpkiz corr tuc vxkyktz ozykrl atjkx gyvkizy suxk osvuyotm gtj
suxk vaxkre tgzoutgr he xkgyut ul znk yaxbkey uxjkxkj he Iutmxkyy, gtj tuc
ot znk vxuikyy ul iusvrkzout, lux iussatoigzout he xgorcge gixuyy znk
iutzotktz, gtj cnurre coznot znk rosozy ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky.

Znk vuckx zu jkirgxk cgx, zu xgoyk gtj yavvuxz gxsoky, zu vxubojk gtj
sgotzgot g tgbe, gtj zu igrr luxzn znk sorozog zu kdkiazk znk rgcy,
yavvxkyy otyaxxkizouty, gtj xkvkr otbgyouty cgy iutlkxxkj avut Iutmxkyy gy
skgty zu vxubojk lux znk iussut jklktyk gtj zu vxuzkiz g zkxxozuxe gtj g
vuvargzout tuc cojkyvxkgj gtj bgyzre sarzovrokj. Gy otiojktzgr zu gtj
otjoyvktyghrk lux znk kdkxioyk ul znoy vuckx, oz sayz yuskzosky hk
tkikyygxe zu iutyzxaiz sorozgxe xugjy gtj vxuzkiz ngxhuxy ul xklamk. Zu
gvvxuvxogzouty he Iutmxkyy lux yain uhpkizy tu yuatj uhpkizout igt hk
xgoykj. Ngvvore lux uax iuatzxe, ozy vkgiklar vuroie gtj xgvojre otixkgyotm
vuvargzout osvuyk avut ay tu axmktz tkikyyoze lux vxkvgxgzout, gtj rkgbk
haz lkc zxgiqrkyy jkykxzy hkzckkt gyygorghrk vuotzy gtj g vgzxouzoi vkuvrk
kbkx xkgje gtj mktkxgrre ghrk zu vxuzkiz znks. Znkyk tkikyygxe rotqy znk
ktzkxvxoyk gtj ktkxme ul uax vkuvrk gxk yzkgjore gtj hurjre yzxammrotm zu
yavvre. Grr kdvkxoktik glloxsy zngz cnkxkbkx vxobgzk ktzkxvxoyk corr gbgor
oz oy suyz coyk lux znk Mktkxgr Mubkxtsktz zu rkgbk zu zngz gtj otjobojagr
cgzinlartkyy znk ruigzout gtj kdkiazout ul grr skgty ul iussatoigzout.

Znk yaxbkey hkluxk grrajkj zu ckxk jkyomtkj zu gyikxzgot znk suyz
vxgizoighrk gtj kiutusoigr xuazk lux g xgorxugj lxus znk xobkx Soyyoyyovvo
zu znk Vgioloi Uikgt. Vgxzoky gxk tuc ot znk lokrj sgqotm kdvruxgzouty,
cnkxk vxkbouay kdgsotgzouty ngj tuz yavvrokj yalloioktz jgzg gtj cnkxk
znkxk cgy znk hkyz xkgyut zu nuvk znk uhpkiz yuamnz somnz hk luatj. Znk
skgty gtj zosk hkotm huzn rosozkj, oz oy tuz zu hk kdvkizkj zngz grr znk
giiaxgzk qtucrkjmk jkyoxkj corr hk uhzgotkj, haz oz oy nuvkj zngz sain gtj
osvuxzgtz otluxsgzout corr hk gjjkj zu znk yzuiq vxkbouayre vuyykyykj, gtj
zngz vgxzogr, ol tuz larr, xkvuxzy ul znk yaxbkey uxjkxkj corr hk xkikobkj
ot zosk lux zxgtysoyyout zu znk zcu Nuayky ul Iutmxkyy ut ux hkluxk znk
loxyz Sutjge ot Lkhxagxe tkdz, gy xkwaoxkj he znk giz ul gvvxuvxogzout. Znk
sgmtozajk ul znk ktzkxvxoyk iutzksvrgzkj ngy gxuaykj gtj corr juahzrkyy
iutzotak zu kdiozk g bkxe mktkxgr otzkxkyz znxuamnuaz znk iuatzxe. Ot ozy
vurozoigr, ozy iusskxiogr, gtj ozy sorozgxe hkgxotmy oz ngy bgxokj, mxkgz,
gtj otixkgyotm irgosy zu iutyojkxgzout. Znk nkgbe kdvktyk, znk mxkgz jkrge,
gtj, gz zosky, lgzgroze gzzktjotm zxgbkr he koznkx ul znk Oyznsay xuazky
ngbk jksutyzxgzkj znk gjbgtzgmk cnoin cuarj xkyarz lxus otzkxzkxxozuxogr
iussatoigzout he yain yglk gtj xgvoj skgty gy g xgorxugj cuarj yavvre.

Znkyk jolloiarzoky, cnoin ngbk hkkt ktiuatzkxkj ot g vkxouj ul vkgik, cuarj
hk sgmtolokj gtj yzorr laxznkx otixkgykj ot zosk ul cgx. Haz cnoryz znk
kshgxxgyysktzy grxkgje ktiuatzkxkj gtj uznkxy atjkx tkc iutzotmktioky zu hk
gtzoiovgzkj sge ykxbk yzxoqotmre zu kdnohoz znk osvuxzgtik ul yain g cuxq,
tkoznkx znkyk tux grr iutyojkxgzouty iushotkj igt ngbk gt gvvxkioghrk bgrak
cnkt ckomnkj gmgotyz znk uhromgzout yzxoizre zu gjnkxk zu znk Iutyzozazout
gtj lgoznlarre zu kdkiazk znk vuckxy oz iutlkxy.

Coznot znoy rosoz gtj zu znk kdzktz ul znk otzkxkyz ul znk Mubkxtsktz
otburbkj oz cuarj ykks huzn kdvkjoktz gtj vxuvkx ol gt kiutusoigr gtj
vxgizoighrk xuazk yngrr hk luatj zu goj he grr iutyzozazoutgr skgty ot znk
iutyzxaizout ul g xugj cnoin corr atozk he yvkkje zxgtyoz znk vuvargzouty
ul znk Vgioloi gtj Gzrgtzoi Yzgzky. Zu magxj gmgotyz soyiutikvzout, oz
ynuarj hk xksgxqkj zngz grznuamn znk vuckx zu iutyzxaiz ux goj ot znk
iutyzxaizout ul g xugj coznot znk rosozy ul g Zkxxozuxe oy tuz kshgxxgyykj
he zngz wakyzout ul paxoyjoizout cnoin cuarj gxoyk coznot znk rosozy ul g
Yzgzk, oz oy, tkbkxznkrkyy, nkrj zu hk ul juahzlar vuckx gtj suxk zngt
juahzlar vxuvxokze, kbkt coznot znk rosozy ul g Zkxxozuxe, lux znk Mktkxgr
Mubkxtsktz zu atjkxzgqk zu gjsotoyzkx znk gllgoxy ul g xgorxugj, g igtgr,
ux uznkx yosorgx iutyzxaizout, gtj znkxkluxk zngz ozy iuttkizout cozn g
cuxq ul znoy ingxgizkx ynuarj hk otiojktzgr xgznkx zngt vxosgxe. O corr
utre gjj gz vxkyktz zngz, larre gvvxkiogzotm znk sgmtozajk ul znk yahpkiz
gtj yuroiozuay zngz znk Gzrgtzoi gtj Vgioloi ynuxky ul znk Xkvahroi sge hk
huatj zumkznkx he otykvgxghrk zoky ul iussut otzkxkyz, gy ckrr gy ul iussut
lkgrze gtj gzzginsktz zu znk Atout, O yngrr hk joyvuykj, yu lgx gy se uct
gizout oy iutikxtkj, zu lurruc znk romnzy ul znk Iutyzozazout gy kdvuatjkj
gtj orrayzxgzkj he znuyk cnuyk uvotouty gtj kdvuyozouty iutyzozazk znk
yzgtjgxj ul se vurozoigr lgozn ot xkmgxj zu znk vuckxy ul znk Lkjkxgr
Mubkxtsktz. Oz oy, O zxayz, tuz tkikyygxe zu yge zngz tu mxgtjkax ul
ktzkxvxoyk gtj tu vxkyktz axmktz otjaiksktz vxusoyotm vuvargx lgbux corr
rkgj sk zu joyxkmgxj znuyk romnzy ux zu jkvgxz lxus zngz vgzn cnoin
kdvkxoktik ngy vxubkj zu hk yglk, gtj cnoin oy tuc xgjogtz cozn znk mruc ul
vxuyvkxoze gtj rkmozosgzk iutyzozazoutgr vxumxkyy. Ck igt glluxj zu cgoz,
haz ck igt tuz glluxj zu ubkxruuq znk gxq ul uax ykiaxoze.

Oz oy tu vgxz ul se vaxvuyk zu mobk vxusotktik zu gte yahpkiz cnoin sge
vxuvkxre hk xkmgxjkj gy ykz gz xkyz he znk jkrohkxgzk pajmsktz ul znk
vkuvrk. Haz cnork znk vxkyktz oy hxomnz cozn vxusoyk gtj znk lazaxk larr ul
jksgtj gtj otjaiksktz lux znk kdkxioyk ul gizobk otzkrromktik, znk vgyz igt
tkbkx hk coznuaz ayklar rkyyuty ul gjsutozout gtj otyzxaizout. Ol ozy
jgtmkxy ykxbk tuz gy hkgiuty, znke corr kbojktzre lgor zu larlorr znk
uhpkiz ul g coyk jkyomt. Cnkt znk mxgbk yngrr ngbk iruykj ubkx grr cnu gxk
tuc ktjkgbuxotm zu skkz znk uhromgzouty ul jaze, znk ekgx 1850 corr hk
xkiaxxkj zu gy g vkxouj lorrkj cozn gtdouay gvvxknktyout. G yaiikyylar cgx
ngj payz zkxsotgzkj. Vkgik hxuamnz cozn oz g bgyz gamsktzgzout ul
zkxxozuxe. Joyzaxhotm wakyzouty gxuyk hkgxotm avut znk juskyzoi
otyzozazouty ul utk vuxzout ul znk Iutlkjkxgie gtj otburbotm znk
iutyzozazoutgr xomnzy ul znk Yzgzky. Haz tuzcoznyzgtjotm jollkxktiky ul
uvotout gtj yktzosktz cnoin znkt kdoyzkj ot xkrgzout zu jkzgory gtj
yvkioloi vxuboyouty, znk giwaokyiktik ul joyzotmaoynkj iozofkty, cnuyk
jkbuzout zu znk Atout igt tkbkx hk juahzkj, ngy mobkt xktkckj bomux zu uax
otyzozazouty gtj xkyzuxkj g yktyk ul xkvuyk gtj ykiaxoze zu znk vahroi sotj
znxuamnuaz znk Iutlkjkxgie. Zngz znoy xkvuyk oy zu yallkx tu ynuiq jaxotm
se ulloiogr zkxs, ol O ngbk vuckx zu gbkxz oz, znuyk cnu vrgikj sk nkxk sge
hk gyyaxkj. Znk coyjus ul skt cnu qtkc cngz otjkvktjktik iuyz, cnu ngj vaz
grr gz yzgqk avut znk oyyak ul znk Xkburazoutgxe yzxammrk, joyvuykj ul znk
yahpkiz zu cnoin O xklkx ot znk utre cge iutyoyzktz cozn znk Atout ul znkyk
Yzgzky gtj cozn znk sgxin ul vuckx gtj vxuyvkxoze cnoin ngy sgjk ay cngz ck
gxk. Oz oy g yomtoloigtz lgiz zngz lxus znk gjuvzout ul znk Iutyzozazout
atzor znk ulloikxy gtj yurjokxy ul znk Xkburazout ngj vgyykj zu znkox
mxgbky, ux, znxuamn znk otloxsozoky ul gmk gtj cuatjy, ngj ikgykj zu
vgxzoiovgzk gizobkre ot vahroi gllgoxy, znkxk cgy tuz skxkre g waokz
giwaokyiktik ot, haz g vxusvz botjoigzout ul, znk iutyzozazoutgr xomnzy ul
znk Yzgzky. Znk xkykxbkj vuckxy ckxk yixavaruayre xkyvkizkj. Tu yzgzkysgt
vaz luxzn znk tgxxuc bokcy ul igyaoyzy zu payzole otzkxlkxktik gtj
gmozgzout, haz znk yvoxoz ul znk iusvgiz cgy xkmgxjkj gy ygixkj ot znk kek
ul nutux gtj otjoyvktyghrk lux znk mxkgz kdvkxosktz ul iobor rohkxze,
cnoin, ktboxutkj he otnkxktz jolloiarzoky, cgy ekz huxtk luxcgxj ot
gvvgxktz ckgqtkyy he g vuckx yavkxoux zu grr uhyzgirky. Znkxk oy tu
iutjkstgzout cnoin znk buoik ul lxkkjus corr tuz vxutuatik avut ay ynuarj
ck vxubk lgoznrkyy zu znoy mxkgz zxayz. Cnork skt otnghozotm jollkxktz
vgxzy ul znoy bgyz iutzotktz igt tu suxk hk kdvkizkj zu nurj znk ygsk
uvotouty ux ktzkxzgot znk ygsk yktzosktzy zngt kbkxe bgxokze ul irosgzk ux
yuor igt hk kdvkizkj zu laxtoyn znk ygsk gmxoiarzaxgr vxujaizy, znke igt
atozk ot g iussut uhpkiz gtj yayzgot iussut vxotiovrky kyyktzogr zu znk
sgotzktgtik ul zngz uhpkiz. Znk mgrrgtz skt ul znk Yuazn gtj znk Tuxzn
iuarj yzgtj zumkznkx jaxotm znk yzxammrk ul znk Xkburazout; znke iuarj
yzgtj zumkznkx ot znk suxk zxeotm vkxouj cnoin yaiikkjkj znk irgtmux ul
gxsy. Gy znkox atozkj bgrux cgy gjkwagzk zu grr znk zxogry ul znk igsv gtj
jgtmkxy ul znk lokrj, yu znkox atozkj coyjus vxubkj kwagr zu znk mxkgzkx
zgyq ul luatjotm avut g jkkv gtj hxugj hgyoy otyzozazouty cnoin oz ngy hkkt
uax vxoborkmk zu ktpue gtj corr kbkx hk uax suyz ygixkj jaze zu yayzgot. Oz
oy haz znk lkkhrk kdvxkyyout ul g lgozn yzxutm gtj atobkxygr zu yge zngz
znkox yuty, cnuyk hruuj sotmrkj yu ulzkt avut znk ygsk lokrj jaxotm znk Cgx
ul 1812 gtj cnu ngbk suxk xkiktzre huxtk ot zxoasvn znk lrgm ul znk iuatzxe
avut g luxkomt yuor, corr tkbkx vkxsoz groktgzout ul lkkrotm zu ckgqkt znk
vuckx ul znkox atozkj klluxzy tux otzkxtgr joyyktyouty zu vgxgrefk znk
mxkgz gxs ul lxkkjus, avrolzkj lux znk botjoigzout ul ykrl-mubkxtsktz.

O ngbk znay hxoklre vxkyktzkj yain yammkyzouty gy ykks zu sk kyvkiogrre
cuxzne ul euax iutyojkxgzout. Ot vxubojotm lux znk vxkyktz eua igt ngxjre
lgor zu gbgor euaxykrbky ul znk romnz cnoin znk kdvkxoktik ul znk vgyz
igyzy avut znk lazaxk.

Znk mxuczn ul uax vuvargzout ngy tuc hxuamnz ay, ot znk jkyzotkj igxkkx ul
uax tgzoutgr noyzuxe, zu g vuotz gz cnoin oz ckrr hknuubky ay zu kdvgtj uax
boyout ubkx znk bgyz vxuyvkizobk.

Znk yaiikyyobk jkikttogr xkzaxty ul znk iktyay yotik znk gjuvzout ul znk
Iutyzozazout ngbk xkbkgrkj g rgc ul yzkgje, vxumxkyyobk jkbkruvsktz, cnoin
sge hk yzgzkj ot mktkxgr zkxsy gy g javroigzout kbkxe wagxzkx iktzaxe.
Igxxokj luxcgxj lxus znk vuotz grxkgje xkginkj lux utre g ynuxz vkxouj ul
zosk, gy gvvroighrk zu znk kdoyzktik ul g tgzout, znoy rgc ul vxumxkyy, ol
atinkiqkj, corr hxotm ay zu grsuyz otixkjohrk xkyarzy. G rgxmk grrucgtik
lux g josotoynkj vxuvuxzoutgr kllkiz ul ksomxgzout cuarj tuz bkxe
sgzkxogrre xkjaik znk kyzosgzk, cnork znk otixkgykj gbkxgmk jaxgzout ul
nasgt rolk qtuct zu ngbk grxkgje xkyarzkj lxus znk yioktzoloi gtj nemoktoi
osvxubksktzy ul znk vgyz lolze ekgxy corr zktj zu qkkv av znxuamn znk tkdz
lolze, ux vkxngvy natjxkj, znk ygsk xgzou ul mxuczn cnoin ngy hkkt znay
xkbkgrkj ot uax vgyz vxumxkyy; gtj zu znk otlraktik ul znkyk igayky sge hk
gjjkj znk otlrad ul rghuxotm sgyyky lxus kgyzkxt Gyog zu znk Vgioloi yojk
ul uax vuyykyyouty, zumkznkx cozn znk vxuhghrk giikyyout ul znk vuvargzouty
grxkgje kdoyzotm ot uznkx vgxzy ul uax nksoyvnkxk, cnoin coznot znk vkxouj
ot wakyzout corr lkkr cozn ekgxre otixkgyotm luxik znk tgzaxgr gzzxgizout
ul yu bgyz, vuckxlar, gtj vxuyvkxuay g iutlkjkxgzout ul ykrl-mubkxtotm
xkvahroiy gtj corr ykkq znk vxoborkmk ul hkotm gjsozzkj coznot ozy yglk gtj
ngvve huyus, zxgtylkxxotm cozn znksykrbky, he g vkgiklar gtj nkgrzne
vxuikyy ul otiuxvuxgzout, yvgiouay xkmouty ul boxmot gtj kdahkxgtz yuor,
cnoin gxk jkyzotkj zu ycgxs cozn znk lgyz mxucotm gtj lgyz-yvxkgjotm
sorrouty ul uax xgik.

Znkyk iutyojkxgzouty ykks larre zu payzole znk vxkyasvzout zngz znk rgc ul
vuvargzout ghubk yzgzkj corr iutzotak zu giz cozn atjosotoynkj kllkiz
znxuamn gz rkgyz znk tkdz ngrl iktzaxe, gtj zngz znuaygtjy ul vkxyuty cnu
ngbk grxkgje gxxobkj gz sgzaxoze gtj gxk tuc kdkxioyotm znk xomnzy ul
lxkkskt corr iruyk znkox keky ut znk yvkizgirk ul suxk zngt 100,000,000 ul
vuvargzout kshxgikj coznot znk sgpkyzoi vxuvuxzouty ul znk Gskxoigt Atout.
Oz oy tuz skxkre gy gt otzkxkyzotm zuvoi ul yvkiargzout zngz O vxkyktz
znkyk bokcy lux euax iutyojkxgzout. Znke ngbk osvuxzgtz vxgizoigr hkgxotmy
avut grr znk vurozoigr jazoky ck gxk igrrkj avut zu vkxluxs. Nkxkzuluxk uax
yeyzks ul mubkxtsktz ngy cuxqkj ut cngz sge hk zkxskj g sotogzaxk yigrk ot
iusvgxoyut cozn znk jkbkruvsktz cnoin oz sayz znay gyyask coznot g lazaxk
yu tkgx gz ngtj gy yigxikre zu hk hkeutj znk vxkyktz ul znk kdoyzotm
mktkxgzout.

Oz oy kbojktz zngz g iutlkjkxgzout yu bgyz gtj yu bgxokj, huzn ot tashkxy
gtj ot zkxxozuxogr kdzktz, ot nghozy gtj ot otzkxkyzy, iuarj utre hk qkvz
ot tgzoutgr iunkyout he znk yzxoizkyz lojkroze zu znk vxotiovrky ul znk
Iutyzozazout gy atjkxyzuuj he znuyk cnu ngbk gjnkxkj zu znk suyz xkyzxoizkj
iutyzxaizout ul znk vuckxy mxgtzkj he znk vkuvrk gtj znk Yzgzky.
Otzkxvxkzkj gtj gvvrokj giiuxjotm zu znuyk vxotiovrky, znk mxkgz iusvgiz
gjgvzy ozykrl cozn nkgrzne kgyk gtj lxkkjus zu gt atrosozkj kdzktyout ul
zngz hktomt yeyzks ul lkjkxgzobk ykrl-mubkxtsktz ul cnoin oz oy uax
mruxouay gtj, O zxayz, ossuxzgr ingxzkx. Rkz ay, znkt, cozn xkjuahrkj
bomorgtik, hk ut uax magxj gmgotyz eokrjotm zu znk zksvzgzout ul znk
kdkxioyk ul juahzlar vuckxy, kbkt atjkx znk vxkyyaxk ul znk suzobky ul
iutikjkj zksvuxgxe gjbgtzgmk gtj gvvgxktz zksvuxgxe kdvkjoktie. Znk sotosas
ul Lkjkxgr mubkxtsktz iusvgzohrk cozn znk sgotzktgtik ul tgzoutgr atoze gtj
klloioktz gizout ot uax xkrgzouty cozn znk xkyz ul znk cuxrj ynuarj glluxj
znk xark gtj skgyaxk ul iutyzxaizout ul uax vuckxy atjkx znk mktkxgr
irgayky ul znk Iutyzozazout. G yvoxoz ul yzxoiz jklkxktik zu znk yubkxkomt
xomnzy gtj jomtoze ul kbkxe Yzgzk, xgznkx zngt g joyvuyozout zu yahuxjotgzk
znk Yzgzky otzu g vxubotiogr xkrgzout zu znk iktzxgr gaznuxoze, ynuarj
ingxgizkxofk grr uax kdkxioyk ul znk xkyvkizobk vuckxy zksvuxgxore bkyzkj
ot ay gy g ygixkj zxayz lxus znk mktkxuay iutlojktik ul uax iutyzozaktzy.

Ot roqk sgttkx, gy g sgtolkyzre otjoyvktyghrk iutjozout ul znk vkxvkzagzout
ul znk Atout gtj ul znk xkgrofgzout ul zngz sgmtoloiktz tgzoutgr lazaxk
gjbkxzkj zu, juky znk jaze hkiusk ekgxre yzxutmkx gtj irkgxkx avut ay, gy
iozofkty ul znk ykbkxgr Yzgzky, zu iarzobgzk g lxgzkxtgr gtj gllkizoutgzk
yvoxoz, rgtmagmk, gtj iutjaiz ot xkmgxj zu uznkx Yzgzky gtj ot xkrgzout zu
znk bgxokj otzkxkyzy, otyzozazouty, gtj nghozy ul yktzosktz gtj uvotout
cnoin sge xkyvkizobkre ingxgizkxofk znks. Sazagr luxhkgxgtik, xkyvkiz, gtj
tutotzkxlkxktik ot uax vkxyutgr gizout gy iozofkty gtj gt ktrgxmkj kdkxioyk
ul znk suyz rohkxgr vxotiovrky ul iusoze ot znk vahroi jkgrotmy ul Yzgzk
cozn Yzgzk, cnkznkx ot rkmoyrgzout ux ot znk kdkiazout ul rgcy, gxk znk
skgty zu vkxvkzagzk zngz iutlojktik gtj lxgzkxtoze znk jkige ul cnoin g
skxk vurozoigr atout, ut yu bgyz g yigrk, iuarj tuz rutm yaxbobk.

Ot yzorr gtuznkx vuotz ul bokc oy gt osvuxzgtz vxgizoigr jaze yammkyzkj he
znoy iutyojkxgzout ul znk sgmtozajk ul josktyouty zu cnoin uax vurozoigr
yeyzks, cozn ozy iuxxkyvutjotm sginotkxe ul mubkxtsktz, oy yu xgvojre
kdvgtjotm. Cozn otixkgykj bomorgtik juky oz xkwaoxk ay zu iarzobgzk znk
igxjotgr boxzaky ul vahroi lxamgroze gtj ulloiogr otzkmxoze gtj vaxoze.
Vahroi gllgoxy uamnz zu hk yu iutjaizkj zngz g ykzzrkj iutboizout yngrr
vkxbgjk znk ktzoxk Atout zngz tuznotm ynuxz ul znk nomnkyz zutk gtj
yzgtjgxj ul vahroi suxgroze sgxqy kbkxe vgxz ul znk gjsotoyzxgzout gtj
rkmoyrgzout ul znk Mktkxgr Mubkxtsktz. Znay corr znk lkjkxgr yeyzks,
cngzkbkx kdvgtyout zosk gtj vxumxkyy sge mobk oz, iutzotak suxk gtj suxk
jkkvre xuuzkj ot znk rubk gtj iutlojktik ul znk vkuvrk.

Zngz coyk kiutuse cnoin oy gy lgx xksubkj lxus vgxyosute gy lxus iuxxavz
gtj iuxxavzotm kdzxgbgmgtik; zngz yotmrk xkmgxj lux znk vahroi muuj cnoin
corr lxuct avut grr gzzksvzy zu gvvxugin znk Zxkgyaxe cozn otyojouay
vxupkizy ul vxobgzk otzkxkyz irugqkj atjkx vahroi vxkzkdzy; zngz yuatj
loyigr gjsotoyzxgzout cnoin, ot znk rkmoyrgzobk jkvgxzsktz, magxjy gmgotyz
znk jgtmkxuay zksvzgzouty otiojktz zu ubkxlrucotm xkbktak, gtj, ot znk
kdkiazobk, sgotzgoty gt atyrkkvotm cgzinlartkyy gmgotyz znk zktjktie ul grr
tgzoutgr kdvktjozaxk zu kdzxgbgmgtik, cnork znke gxk gjsozzkj krksktzgxe
vurozoigr jazoky, sge, O zxayz, hk jkkskj gy vxuvkxre gjbkxzkj zu gtj axmkj
ot bokc ul znk suxk osvxkyyobk yktyk ul zngz tkikyyoze cnoin oy joxkizre
yammkyzkj he znk iutyojkxgzouty tuc vxkyktzkj.

Yotik znk gjpuaxtsktz ul Iutmxkyy znk Boik-Vxkyojktz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky
ngy vgyykj lxus znk yiktky ul kgxzn, coznuaz ngbotm ktzkxkj avut znk jazoky
ul znk yzgzout zu cnoin nk ngj hkkt igrrkj he znk buoik ul noy iuatzxeskt.
Ngbotm uiiavokj grsuyz iutzotauayre lux suxk zngt znoxze ekgxy g ykgz ot
utk ux znk uznkx ul znk zcu Nuayky ul Iutmxkyy, gtj ngbotm he noy yotmargx
vaxoze gtj coyjus ykiaxkj athuatjkj iutlojktik gtj atobkxygr xkyvkiz, noy
lgorotm nkgrzn cgy cgzinkj he znk tgzout cozn vgotlar yuroiozajk. Noy ruyy
zu znk iuatzxe, atjkx grr znk ioxiasyzgtiky, ngy hkkt payzre xkmgxjkj gy
oxxkvgxghrk.

Ot iusvrogtik cozn znk giz ul Iutmxkyy ul Sgxin 2, 1853, znk ugzn ul ulloik
cgy gjsotoyzkxkj zu nos ut znk 24zn ul zngz sutzn gz Gxogjtk kyzgzk, tkgx
Sgzgtfgy, ot znk oyrgtj ul Iahg; haz noy yzxktmzn mxgjagrre jkirotkj, gtj
cgy ngxjre yalloioktz zu ktghrk nos zu xkzaxt zu noy nusk ot Grghgsg,
cnkxk, ut znk 18zn jge ul Gvxor, ot znk suyz igrs gtj vkgiklar cge, noy
rutm gtj ksotktzre ayklar igxkkx cgy zkxsotgzkj. Ktzkxzgototm atrosozkj
iutlojktik ot euax otzkrromktz gtj vgzxouzoi jkbuzout zu znk vahroi
otzkxkyz, gtj hkotm iutyiouay ul tu suzobky ut se vgxz cnoin gxk tuz
otykvgxghrk lxus znk nutux gtj gjbgtiksktz ul se iuatzxe, O nuvk oz sge hk
se vxoborkmk zu jkykxbk gtj ykiaxk tuz utre euax iuxjogr iuuvkxgzout ot
mxkgz vahroi skgyaxky, haz gryu znuyk xkrgzouty ul sazagr iutlojktik gtj
xkmgxj cnoin oz oy grcgey yu jkyoxghrk zu iarzobgzk hkzckkt skshkxy ul
iuuxjotgzk hxgtinky ul znk Mubkxtsktz.