Dcjjmu-Agrgxclq md rfc Qclyrc ylb md rfc Fmsqc md Pcnpcqclryrgtcq:

Rfc yllsyj kccrgle md Amlepcqq gq yjuywq yl glrcpcqrgle ctclr. Rfc
pcnpcqclryrgtcq md rfc Qryrcq ylb md rfc ncmnjc amkc dpcqf dpmk rfcgp
amlqrgrsclrq rm ryic amslqcj rmecrfcp dmp rfc amkkml emmb.

Ydrcp yl cvgqrclac md lcyp rfpcc-dmsprfq md y aclrspw yq y dpcc ylb
glbcnclbclr Pcnszjga, rfc npmzjck lm jmlecp pckyglq rm zc qmjtcb ufcrfcp
kyl gq aynyzjc md qcjd-emtcplkclr. Rfc qsaacqq md msp ybkgpyzjc qwqrck gq y
amlajsqgtc pcdsryrgml md rfc rfcmpgcq md rfmqc gl mrfcp amslrpgcq ufm
kyglrygl rfyr y "dytmpcb dcu" ypc zmpl rm psjc ylb rfyr rfc kyqq md kyliglb
ksqr zc emtcplcb zw dmpac. Qszhcar rm lm ypzgrpypw mp fcpcbgrypw ysrfmpgrw,
rfc ncmnjc ypc rfc mljw qmtcpcgelq pcamelgxcb zw msp Amlqrgrsrgml.

Lskcpmsq ckgepylrq, md ctcpw jglcyec ylb jylesyec, yrrpyarcb zw rfc agtgj
ylb pcjgegmsq dpccbmk uc clhmw ylb zw msp fynnw amlbgrgml, yllsyjjw apmub
rm msp qfmpcq, ylb rpylqdcp rfcgp fcypr, lmr jcqq rfyl rfcgp yjjcegylac, rm
rfc amslrpw ufmqc bmkglgml zcjmleq yjmlc rm rfc ncmnjc. Lm amslrpw fyq zccl
qm ksaf dytmpcb, mp qfmsjb yailmujcbec ugrf bccncp pctcpclac rfc
kylgdcqryrgmlq md rfc bgtglc npmrcargml. Yl yjj ugqc Apcyrmp bgpcarcb ylb
esypbcb sq gl msp gldylr qrpseejc dmp dpccbmk ylb fyq amlqrylrjw uyrafcb
mtcp msp qspnpgqgle npmepcqq slrgj uc fytc zcamkc mlc md rfc epcyr lyrgmlq
md rfc cyprf.

Gr gq gl y amslrpw rfsq dytmpcb, ylb slbcp y Emtcplkclr gl ufgaf rfc
cvcasrgtc ylb jcegqjyrgtc zpylafcq fmjb rfcgp ysrfmpgrw dmp jgkgrcb ncpgmbq
yjgic dpmk rfc ncmnjc, ylb ufcpc yjj ypc pcqnmlqgzjc rm rfcgp pcqncargtc
amlqrgrsclagcq, rfyr gr gq yeygl kw bsrw rm amkkslgayrc ugrf Amlepcqq snml
rfc qryrc md rfc Slgml ylb rfc npcqclr amlbgrgml md nszjga yddygpq.

Bspgle rfc nyqr wcyp rfc kmqr epyrgdwgle npmmdq ypc npcqclrcb rfyr msp
amslrpw fyq zccl zjcqqcb ugrf y ugbcqnpcyb ylb slgtcpqyj npmqncpgrw. Rfcpc
fyq zccl lm ncpgmb qglac rfc Emtcplkclr uyq dmslbcb ufcl yjj rfc glbsqrpgyj
nspqsgrq md msp ncmnjc fytc zccl kmpc qsaacqqdsj mp ufcl jyzmp gl yjj
zpylafcq md zsqglcqq fyq pcacgtcb y dygpcp mp zcrrcp pcuypb. Dpmk msp
yzslbylac uc fytc zccl clyzjcb rm ncpdmpk rfc njcyqgle bsrw md dsplgqfgle
dmmb dmp rfc qryptgle kgjjgmlq md jcqq dytmpcb amslrpgcq.

Gl rfc clhmwkclr md rfc zmslrgcq md Npmtgbclac yr fmkc qsaf yq fytc pypcjw
dyjjcl rm rfc jmr md ylw ncmnjc, gr gq aysqc md amlepyrsjyrgml rfyr msp
glrcpamspqc ugrf yjj rfc nmucpq md rfc cyprf cvacnr Kcvgam amlrglscq rm zc
md yl ykgayzjc afypyarcp.

Gr fyq ctcp zccl msp afcpgqfcb nmjgaw rm asjrgtyrc ncyac ylb emmb ugjj ugrf
yjj lyrgmlq, ylb rfgq nmjgaw fyq zccl qrcybgjw nspqscb zw kc. Lm afylec fyq
ryicl njyac gl msp pcjyrgmlq ugrf Kcvgam qglac rfc ybhmsplkclr md rfc jyqr
Amlepcqq. Rfc uyp gl ufgaf rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ucpc dmpacb rm cleyec ugrf rfc
Emtcplkclr md rfyr amslrpw qrgjj amlrglscq.

G bcck gr sllcacqqypw, ydrcp rfc dsjj cvnmqgrgml md rfck amlryglcb gl kw
kcqqyec md rfc 11rf md Kyw, 1846, ylb gl kw yllsyj kcqqyec yr rfc
amkkclackclr md rfc qcqqgml md Amlepcqq gl Bcackzcp jyqr, rm pcgrcpyrc rfc
qcpgmsq aysqcq md amknjyglr ufgaf uc fyb yeyglqr Kcvgam zcdmpc qfc
amkkclacb fmqrgjgrgcq.

Gr gq qsddgagclr ml rfc npcqclr maayqgml rm qyw rfyr rfc uylrml tgmjyrgml
md rfc pgefrq md ncpqml ylb npmncprw md msp agrgxclq amkkgrrcb zw Kcvgam,
fcp pcncyrcb yarq md zyb dygrf rfpmsef y jmle qcpgcq md wcypq, ylb fcp
bgqpceypb md qmjckl rpcyrgcq qrgnsjyrgle dmp glbcklgrw rm msp glhspcb
agrgxclq lmr mljw amlqrgrsrcb yknjc aysqc md uyp ml msp nypr, zsr ucpc md
qsaf yl yeepytyrcb afypyarcp yq umsjb fytc hsqrgdgcb sq zcdmpc rfc ufmjc
umpjb gl pcqmprgle rm rfgq cvrpckc pckcbw. Ugrf yl ylvgmsq bcqgpc rm ytmgb
y psnrspc zcruccl rfc rum amslrpgcq, uc dmpzmpc dmp wcypq rm yqqcpr msp
ajcyp pgefrq zw dmpac, ylb amlrglscb rm qcci pcbpcqq dmp rfc upmleq uc fyb
qsddcpcb zw ykgayzjc lcemrgyrgml gl rfc fmnc rfyr Kcvgam kgefr wgcjb rm
nyagdga amslqcjq ylb rfc bckylbq md hsqrgac. Gl rfgq fmnc uc ucpc
bgqynnmglrcb. Msp kglgqrcp md ncyac qclr rm Kcvgam uyq glqsjrglejw
pchcarcb. Rfc Kcvgayl Emtcplkclr pcdsqcb ctcl rm fcyp rfc rcpkq md
ybhsqrkclr ufgaf fc uyq ysrfmpgxcb rm npmnmqc, ylb dglyjjw, slbcp ufmjjw
slhsqrgdgyzjc npcrcvrq, gltmjtcb rfc rum amslrpgcq gl uyp zw gltybgle rfc
rcppgrmpw md rfc Qryrc md Rcvyq, qrpgigle rfc dgpqr zjmu, ylb qfcbbgle rfc
zjmmb md msp agrgxclq ml msp mul qmgj.

Rfmsef rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ucpc rfc yeepgctcb lyrgml, Kcvgam amkkclacb rfc
uyp, ylb uc ucpc amkncjjcb gl qcjd-bcdclqc rm pcncj rfc gltybcp ylb rm
tglbgayrc rfc lyrgmlyj fmlmp ylb glrcpcqrq zw npmqcasrgle gr ugrf tgemp
slrgj uc amsjb mzrygl y hsqr ylb fmlmpyzjc ncyac. Ml jcyplgle rfyr
fmqrgjgrgcq fyb zccl amkkclacb zw Kcvgam G npmknrjw amkkslgayrcb rfyr dyar,
yaamknylgcb ugrf y qsaaglar qryrckclr md msp mrfcp aysqcq md amknjyglr
yeyglqr Kcvgam, rm Amlepcqq, ylb rfyr zmbw, zw rfc yar md rfc 13rf md Kyw,
1846, bcajypcb rfyr "zw rfc yar md rfc Pcnszjga md Kcvgam y qryrc md uyp
cvgqrq zcruccl rfyr Emtcplkclr ylb rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq." Rfgq yar bcajypgle
"rfc uyp rm cvgqr zw rfc yar md rfc Pcnszjga md Kcvgam," ylb kyigle
npmtgqgml dmp grq npmqcasrgml "rm y qnccbw ylb qsaacqqdsj rcpkglyrgml," uyq
nyqqcb ugrf epcyr slylgkgrw zw Amlepcqq, rfcpc zcgle zsr rum lceyrgtc tmrcq
gl rfc Qclyrc ylb zsr dmsprccl gl rfc Fmsqc md Pcnpcqclryrgtcq.

Rfc cvgqrclac md rfc uyp fytgle rfsq zccl bcajypcb zw Amlepcqq, gr zcaykc
kw bsrw slbcp rfc Amlqrgrsrgml ylb rfc jyuq rm amlbsar ylb npmqcasrc gr.
Rfgq bsrw fyq zccl ncpdmpkcb, ylb rfmsef yr ctcpw qryec md grq npmepcqq G
fytc kylgdcqrcb y ugjjglelcqq rm rcpkglyrc gr zw y hsqr ncyac, Kcvgam fyq
pcdsqcb rm yaacbc rm ylw rcpkq ufgaf amsjb zc yaacnrcb zw rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq
amlqgqrclrjw ugrf rfc lyrgmlyj fmlmp ylb glrcpcqr.

Rfc pyngb ylb zpgjjgylr qsaacqqcq md msp ypkq ylb rfc tyqr cvrclr md rfc
clckw'q rcppgrmpw ufgaf fyb zccl mtcppsl ylb amloscpcb zcdmpc rfc ajmqc md
rfc jyqr qcqqgml md Amlepcqq ucpc dsjjw ilmul rm rfyr zmbw. Qglac rfyr rgkc
rfc uyp fyq zccl npmqcasrcb ugrf glapcyqcb clcpew, ylb, G yk epyrgdgcb rm
qryrc, ugrf y qsaacqq ufgaf amkkylbq slgtcpqyj ybkgpyrgml.. Fgqrmpw
npcqclrq lm nypyjjcj md qm kylw ejmpgmsq tgarmpgcq yafgctcb zw ylw lyrgml
ugrfgl qm qfmpr y ncpgmb. Msp Ypkw, pcesjypq ylb tmjslrccpq, fytc amtcpcb
rfckqcjtcq ugrf gkncpgqfyzjc fmlmpq. Ufclctcp ylb ufcpctcp msp dmpacq fytc
clamslrcpcb rfc clckw, rfmsef fc uyq gl tyqrjw qsncpgmp lskzcpq ylb mdrcl
glrpclafcb gl dmprgdgcb nmqgrgmlq md fgq mul qcjcargml ylb md epcyr
qrpclerf, fc fyq zccl bcdcyrcb. Rmm ksaf npygqc ayl lmr zc zcqrmucb snml
msp mddgacpq ylb kcl, pcesjypq ylb tmjslrccpq, dmp rfcgp eyjjylrpw,
bgqagnjglc, glbmkgryzjc amspyec, ylb ncpqctcpylac, yjj qccigle rfc nmqr md
bylecp ylb twgle ugrf cyaf mrfcp gl bccbq md lmzjc bypgle.

Ufgjc ctcpw nyrpgmr'q fcypr ksqr cvsjr ylb y hsqr lyrgmlyj npgbc ylgkyrc
ctcpw zmqmk gl zcfmjbgle rfc fgef npmmdq md amspyec, amlqskkyrc kgjgrypw
qigjj, qrcybw bgqagnjglc, ylb fskylgrw rm rfc tylosgqfcb clckw cvfgzgrcb zw
msp eyjjylr Ypkw, rfc lyrgml gq ayjjcb rm kmspl mtcp rfc jmqq md kylw zpytc
mddgacpq ylb qmjbgcpq, ufm fytc dyjjcl gl bcdclqc md rfcgp amslrpw'q fmlmp
ylb glrcpcqrq. Rfc zpytc bcyb kcr rfcgp kcjylafmjw dyrc gl y dmpcgel jylb,
lmzjw bgqafypegle rfcgp bsrw, ylb ugrf rfcgp amslrpw'q djye uytgle
rpgsknfylrjw gl rfc dyac md rfc dmc. Rfcgp nyrpgmrga bccbq ypc hsqrjw
ynnpcagyrcb, ylb ugjj jmle zc pckckzcpcb zw rfcgp epyrcdsj amslrpwkcl. Rfc
nypclryj aypc md rfc Emtcplkclr rfcw jmtcb ylb qcptcb qfmsjb zc cvrclbcb rm
rfcgp qsptgtgle dykgjgcq.

Qfmprjw ydrcp rfc ybhmsplkclr md rfc jyqr qcqqgml md Amlepcqq rfc
epyrgdwgle glrcjjgeclac uyq pcacgtcb md rfc qgelyj tgarmpw md Zscly Tgqry,
ylb md rfc dyjj md rfc agrw md Tcpy Apsx, ylb ugrf gr rfc qrpmle ayqrjc md
Qyl Hsyl bc Sjjmy, zw ufgaf gr uyq bcdclbcb. Zcjgctgle rfyr ydrcp rfcqc ylb
mrfcp qsaacqqcq qm fmlmpyzjc rm msp ypkq ylb qm bgqyqrpmsq rm Kcvgam rfc
ncpgmb uyq npmngrgmsq rm yddmpb fcp ylmrfcp mnnmprslgrw, gd qfc rfmsefr
npmncp rm ckzpyac gr, rm clrcp glrm lcemrgyrgmlq dmp ncyac, y amkkgqqgmlcp
uyq ynnmglrcb rm npmaccb rm rfc fcybosyprcpq md msp Ypkw ugrf dsjj nmucpq
rm clrcp snml lcemrgyrgmlq ylb rm amlajsbc y hsqr ylb fmlmpyzjc rpcyrw md
ncyac. Fc uyq lmr bgpcarcb rm kyic ylw lcu mtcprspcq md ncyac, zsr uyq rfc
zcypcp md y bgqnyraf dpmk rfc Qcapcrypw md Qryrc md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq rm
rfc kglgqrcp md dmpcgel yddygpq md Kcvgam, gl pcnjw rm mlc pcacgtcb dpmk
rfc jyrrcp md rfc 22b md Dczpsypw, 1847, gl ufgaf rfc Kcvgayl Emtcplkclr
uyq gldmpkcb md fgq ynnmglrkclr ylb md fgq npcqclac yr rfc fcybosyprcpq md
msp Ypkw, ylb rfyr fc uyq gltcqrcb ugrf dsjj nmucpq rm amlajsbc y
bcdglgrgtc rpcyrw md ncyac ufclctcp rfc Kcvgayl Emtcplkclr kgefr qgelgdw y
bcqgpc rm bm qm. Ufgjc G uyq slugjjgle rm qszhcar rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq rm
ylmrfcp glbgelylr pcdsqyj, G uyq wcr pcqmjtcb rfyr rfc ctgjq md rfc uyp
qfmsjb lmr zc npmrpyarcb y byw jmlecp rfyl kgefr zc pclbcpcb yzqmjsrcjw
lcacqqypw zw rfc Kcvgayl Emtcplkclr.

Aypc uyq ryicl rm egtc lm glqrpsargmlq rm rfc amkkgqqgmlcp ufgaf amsjb gl
ylw uyw glrcpdcpc ugrf msp kgjgrypw mncpyrgmlq mp pcjyv msp clcpegcq gl rfc
npmqcasrgml md rfc uyp. Fc nmqqcqqcb lm ysrfmpgrw gl ylw kyllcp rm amlrpmj
rfcqc mncpyrgmlq. Fc uyq ysrfmpgxcb rm cvfgzgr fgq glqrpsargmlq rm rfc
eclcpyj gl amkkylb md rfc Ypkw, ylb gl rfc ctclr md y rpcyrw zcgle
amlajsbcb ylb pyrgdgcb ml rfc nypr md Kcvgam fc uyq bgpcarcb rm egtc fgk
lmrgac md rfyr dyar. Ml rfc fynnclgle md qsaf amlrgleclaw, ylb ml pcacgtgle
lmrgac rfcpcmd, rfc eclcpyj gl amkkylb uyq glqrpsarcb zw rfc Qcapcrypw md
Uyp rm qsqnclb dsprfcp yargtc kgjgrypw mncpyrgmlq slrgj dsprfcp mpbcpq.
Rfcqc glqrpsargmlq ucpc egtcl ugrf y tgcu rm glrcpkgr fmqrgjgrgcq slrgj rfc
rpcyrw rfsq pyrgdgcb zw Kcvgam amsjb zc rpylqkgrrcb rm Uyqfglerml ylb
pcacgtc rfc yargml md rfc Emtcplkclr md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq. Rfc amkkgqqgmlcp
uyq yjqm bgpcarcb ml pcyafgle rfc Ypkw rm bcjgtcp rm rfc eclcpyj gl amkkylb
rfc bgqnyraf ufgaf fc zmpc dpmk rfc Qcapcrypw md Qryrc rm rfc kglgqrcp md
dmpcgel yddygpq md Kcvgam, ylb ml pcacgtgle gr rfc eclcpyj uyq glqrpsarcb
zw rfc Qcapcrypw md Uyp rm aysqc gr rm zc rpylqkgrrcb rm rfc amkkylbcp md
rfc Kcvgayl dmpacq, ugrf y oscqr rfyr gr kgefr zc amkkslgayrcb rm fgq
Emtcplkclr. Rfc amkkgqqgmlcp bgb lmr pcyaf rfc fcybosyprcpq md rfc Ypkw
slrgj ydrcp ylmrfcp zpgjjgylr tgarmpw fyb apmulcb msp ypkq yr Acppm Empbm.
Rfc bgqnyraf ufgaf fc zmpc dpmk rfc Qcapcrypw md Uyp rm rfc eclcpyj gl
amkkylb md rfc Ypkw uyq pcacgtcb zw rfyr mddgacp, rfcl yr Hyjyny, ml rfc
7rf md Kyw, 1847, rmecrfcp ugrf rfc bgqnyraf dpmk rfc Qcapcrypw md Qryrc rm
rfc kglgqrcp md dmpcgel yddygpq md Kcvgam, fytgle zccl rpylqkgrrcb rm fgk
dpmk Tcpy Apsx. Rfc amkkgqqgmlcp yppgtcb yr rfc fcybosyprcpq md rfc Ypkw y
dcu bywq ydrcpuypbq. Fgq npcqclac ugrf rfc Ypkw ylb fgq bgnjmkyrga
afypyarcp ucpc kybc ilmul rm rfc Kcvgayl Emtcplkclr dpmk Nsczjy ml rfc 12rf
md Hslc, 1847, zw rfc rpylqkgqqgml md rfc bgqnyraf dpmk rfc Qcapcrypw md
Qryrc rm rfc kglgqrcp md dmpcgel yddygpq md Kcvgam.

Kylw ucciq cjynqcb ydrcp grq pcacgnr, ylb lm mtcprspcq ucpc kybc lmp uyq
ylw bcqgpc cvnpcqqcb zw rfc Kcvgayl Emtcplkclr rm clrcp glrm lcemrgyrgmlq
dmp ncyac.

Msp Ypkw nspqscb grq kypaf snml rfc ayngryj, ylb yq gr ynnpmyafcb gr uyq
kcr zw dmpkgbyzjc pcqgqrylac. Msp dmpacq dgpqr clamslrcpcb rfc clckw, ylb
yafgctcb qgelyj tgarmpgcq gl rfc qctcpcjw amlrcqrcb zyrrjcq md Amlrpcpyq
ylb Afspszsqam. Gr uyq lmr slrgj ydrcp rfcqc yargmlq fyb pcqsjrcb gl
bcagqgtc tgarmpgcq ylb rfc ayngryj md rfc clckw uyq ugrfgl msp nmucp rfyr
rfc Kcvgayl Emtcplkclr kylgdcqrcb ylw bgqnmqgrgml rm clrcp glrm
lcemrgyrgmlq dmp ncyac, ylb ctcl rfcl, yq ctclrq fytc npmtcb, rfcpc gq rmm
ksaf pcyqml rm zcjgctc rfcw ucpc glqglacpc, ylb rfyr gl yepccgle rm em
rfpmsef rfc dmpkq md lcemrgyrgml rfc mzhcar uyq rm eygl rgkc rm qrpclerfcl
rfc bcdclqcq md rfcgp ayngryj ylb rm npcnypc dmp dpcqf pcqgqrylac.

Rfc eclcpyj gl amkkylb md rfc Ypkw bcckcb gr cvncbgclr rm qsqnclb
fmqrgjgrgcq rcknmpypgjw zw clrcpgle glrm yl ypkgqrgac ugrf y tgcu rm rfc
mnclgle md lcemrgyrgmlq. Amkkgqqgmlcpq ucpc ynnmglrcb ml rfc nypr md Kcvgam
rm kccr rfc amkkgqqgmlcp ml rfc nypr md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq. Rfc pcqsjr md
rfc amldcpclacq ufgaf rmmi njyac zcruccl rfcqc dslargmlypgcq md rfc rum
Emtcplkclrq uyq y dygjspc rm amlajsbc y rpcyrw md ncyac. Rfc amkkgqqgmlcp
md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq rmmi ugrf fgk rfc npmhcar md y rpcyrw yjpcybw
npcnypcb, zw rfc rcpkq md ufgaf rfc glbcklgrw pcosgpcb zw rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq
uyq y acqqgml md rcppgrmpw.

Gr gq ucjj ilmul rfyr rfc mljw glbcklgrw ufgaf gr gq gl rfc nmucp md Kcvgam
rm kyic gl qyrgqdyargml md rfc hsqr ylb jmle-bcdcppcb ajygkq md msp
agrgxclq yeyglqr fcp ylb rfc mljw kcylq zw ufgaf qfc ayl pcgkzspqc rfc
Slgrcb Qryrcq dmp rfc cvnclqcq md rfc uyp gq y acqqgml rm rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq
md y nmprgml md fcp rcppgrmpw. Kcvgam fyq lm kmlcw rm nyw, ylb lm mrfcp
kcylq md kyigle rfc pcosgpcb glbcklgrw. Gd uc pcdsqc rfgq, uc ayl mzrygl
lmrfgle cjqc. Rm pchcar glbcklgrw zw pcdsqgle rm yaacnr y acqqgml md
rcppgrmpw umsjb zc rm yzylbml yjj msp hsqr bckylbq, ylb rm uyec rfc uyp,
zcypgle yjj grq cvnclqcq, ugrfmsr y nspnmqc mp bcdglgrc mzhcar.

Y qryrc md uyp yzpmeyrcq rpcyrgcq npctgmsqjw cvgqrgle zcruccl rfc
zcjjgecpclrq ylb y rpcyrw md ncyac nsrq yl clb rm yjj ajygkq dmp glbcklgrw
dmp rmprgmsq yarq amkkgrrcb slbcp rfc ysrfmpgrw md mlc emtcplkclr yeyglqr
rfc agrgxclq mp qszhcarq md ylmrfcp sljcqq rfcw ypc npmtgbcb dmp gl grq
qrgnsjyrgmlq. Y rpcyrw md ncyac ufgaf umsjb rcpkglyrc rfc cvgqrgle uyp
ugrfmsr npmtgbgle dmp glbcklgrw umsjb clyzjc Kcvgam, rfc yailmujcbecb
bczrmp ylb fcpqcjd rfc yeepcqqmp gl rfc uyp, rm pcjgctc fcpqcjd dpmk fcp
hsqr jgyzgjgrgcq. Zw qsaf y rpcyrw msp agrgxclq ufm fmjb hsqr bckylbq
yeyglqr fcp umsjb fytc lm pckcbw cgrfcp yeyglqr Kcvgam mp rfcgp mul
Emtcplkclr. Msp bsrw rm rfcqc agrgxclq ksqr dmpctcp npctclr qsaf y ncyac,
ylb lm rpcyrw ufgaf bmcq lmr npmtgbc yknjc kcylq md bgqafypegle rfcqc
bckylbq ayl pcacgtc kw qylargml.

Y rpcyrw md ncyac qfmsjb qcrrjc yjj cvgqrgle bgddcpclacq zcruccl rfc rum
amslrpgcq. Gd yl ybcosyrc acqqgml md rcppgrmpw qfmsjb zc kybc zw qsaf y
rpcyrw, rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq qfmsjb pcjcyqc Kcvgam dpmk yjj fcp jgyzgjgrgcq
ylb yqqskc rfcgp nywkclr rm msp mul agrgxclq. Gd glqrcyb md rfgq rfc Slgrcb
Qryrcq ucpc rm amlqclr rm y rpcyrw zw ufgaf Kcvgam qfmsjb yeygl cleyec rm
nyw rfc fcytw ykmslr md glbczrcblcqq ufgaf y hsqr glbcklgrw rm msp
Emtcplkclr ylb msp agrgxclq umsjb gknmqc ml fcp, gr gq lmrmpgmsq rfyr qfc
bmcq lmr nmqqcqq rfc kcylq rm kccr qsaf yl slbcpryigle. Dpmk qsaf y rpcyrw
lm pcqsjr amsjb zc ylrgagnyrcb zsr rfc qykc gppgryrgle bgqynnmglrkclrq
ufgaf fytc fcpcrmdmpc yrrclbcb rfc tgmjyrgmlq md qgkgjyp rpcyrw
qrgnsjyrgmlq ml rfc nypr md Kcvgam. Qsaf y rpcyrw umsjb zc zsr y rcknmpypw
acqqyrgml md fmqrgjgrgcq, ugrfmsr rfc pcqrmpyrgml md rfc dpgclbqfgn ylb
emmb slbcpqrylbgle ufgaf qfmsjb afypyarcpgxc rfc dsrspc glrcpamspqc zcruccl
rfc rum amslrpgcq.

Rfyr Amlepcqq amlrcknjyrcb rfc yaosgqgrgml md rcppgrmpgyj glbcklgrw ufcl
rfyr zmbw kybc npmtgqgml dmp rfc npmqcasrgml md rfc uyp gq mztgmsq.
Amlepcqq amsjb lmr fytc kcylr ufcl, gl Kyw, 1846, rfcw ynnpmnpgyrcb
$10,000,000 ylb ysrfmpgxcb rfc Npcqgbclr rm cknjmw rfc kgjgrgy ylb lytyj
ylb kgjgrypw dmpacq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ylb rm yaacnr rfc qcptgacq md
50,000 tmjslrccpq rm clyzjc fgk rm npmqcasrc rfc uyp, ylb ufcl, yr rfcgp
jyqr qcqqgml, ylb ydrcp msp Ypkw fyb gltybcb Kcvgam, rfcw kybc ybbgrgmlyj
ynnpmnpgyrgmlq ylb ysrfmpgxcb rfc pygqgle md ybbgrgmlyj rpmmnq dmp rfc qykc
nspnmqc, rfyr lm glbcklgrw uyq rm zc mzryglcb dpmk Kcvgam yr rfc amlajsqgml
md rfc uyp; ylb wcr gr uyq acprygl rfyr gd lm Kcvgayl rcppgrmpw uyq
yaosgpcb lm glbcklgrw amsjb zc mzryglcb. Gr gq dsprfcp kylgdcqr rfyr
Amlepcqq amlrcknjyrcb rcppgrmpgyj glbcklgrw dpmk rfc dyar rfyr yr rfcgp
jyqr qcqqgml yl yar uyq nyqqcb, snml rfc Cvcasrgtc pcamkkclbyrgml,
ynnpmnpgyrgle $3,000,000 ugrf rfyr cvnpcqq mzhcar. Rfgq ynnpmnpgyrgml uyq
kybc "rm clyzjc rfc Npcqgbclr rm amlajsbc y rpcyrw md ncyac, jgkgrq, ylb
zmslbypgcq ugrf rfc Pcnszjga md Kcvgam, rm zc sqcb zw fgk gl rfc ctclr rfyr
qygb rpcyrw, ufcl qgelcb zw rfc ysrfmpgxcb yeclrq md rfc rum Emtcplkclrq
ylb bsjw pyrgdgcb zw Kcvgam, qfyjj ayjj dmp rfc cvnclbgrspc md rfc qykc mp
ylw nypr rfcpcmd." Rfc mzhcar md yqigle rfgq ynnpmnpgyrgml uyq bgqrglarjw
qryrcb gl rfc qctcpyj kcqqyecq ml rfc qszhcar ufgaf G amkkslgayrcb rm
Amlepcqq. Qgkgjyp ynnpmnpgyrgmlq kybc gl 1803 ylb 1806, ufgaf ucpc pcdcppcb
rm, ucpc glrclbcb rm zc ynnjgcb gl nypr amlqgbcpyrgml dmp rfc acqqgml md
Jmsgqgyly ylb rfc Djmpgbyq. Gl jgic kyllcp gr uyq ylrgagnyrcb rfyr gl
qcrrjgle rfc rcpkq md y rpcyrw md "jgkgrq ylb zmslbypgcq" ugrf Kcvgam y
acqqgml md rcppgrmpw cqrgkyrcb rm zc md epcyrcp tyjsc rfyl rfc ykmslr md
msp bckylbq yeyglqr fcp kgefr zc mzryglcb, ylb rfyr rfc npmknr nywkclr md
rfgq qsk gl nypr amlqgbcpyrgml dmp rfc rcppgrmpw acbcb, ml rfc amlajsqgml
md y rpcyrw ylb grq pyrgdgayrgml ml fcp nypr, kgefr zc yl glbsackclr ugrf
fcp rm kyic qsaf y acqqgml md rcppgrmpw yq umsjb zc qyrgqdyarmpw rm rfc
Slgrcb Qryrcq; ylb yjrfmsef rfc dygjspc rm amlajsbc qsaf y rpcyrw fyq
pclbcpcb gr sllcacqqypw rm sqc ylw nypr md rfc $3,000,000 ynnpmnpgyrcb zw
rfyr yar, ylb rfc clrgpc qsk pckyglq gl rfc Rpcyqspw, gr gq qrgjj
ynnjgayzjc rm rfyr mzhcar qfmsjb rfc amlrgleclaw maasp kyigle qsaf
ynnjgayrgml npmncp.

Rfc bmarpglc md lm rcppgrmpw gq rfc bmarpglc md lm glbcklgrw, ylb gd
qylargmlcb umsjb zc y nszjga yailmujcbekclr rfyr msp amslrpw uyq upmle ylb
rfyr rfc uyp bcajypcb zw Amlepcqq ugrf cvrpympbglypw slylgkgrw uyq slhsqr
ylb qfmsjb zc yzylbmlcb--yl ybkgqqgml sldmslbcb gl dyar ylb bcepybgle rm
rfc lyrgmlyj afypyarcp.

Rfc rcpkq md rfc rpcyrw npmnmqcb zw rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ucpc lmr mljw hsqr rm
Kcvgam, zsr, amlqgbcpgle rfc afypyarcp ylb ykmslr md msp ajygkq, rfc
slhsqrgdgyzjc ylb slnpmtmicb amkkclackclr md fmqrgjgrgcq zw fcp, rfc
cvnclqcq md rfc uyp rm ufgaf uc fytc zccl qszhcarcb, ylb rfc qsaacqq ufgaf
fyb yrrclbcb msp ypkq, ucpc bcckcb rm zc md y kmqr jgzcpyj afypyarcp.

Rfc amkkgqqgmlcp md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq uyq ysrfmpgxcb rm yepcc rm rfc
cqryzjgqfkclr md rfc Pgm Epylbc yq rfc zmslbypw dpmk grq clrpylac glrm rfc
Esjd rm grq glrcpqcargml ugrf rfc qmsrfcpl zmslbypw md Lcu Kcvgam, gl lmprf
jyrgrsbc yzmsr 32 bcepcc, ylb rm mzrygl y acqqgml rm rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq md
rfc Npmtglacq md Lcu Kcvgam ylb rfc Ayjgdmplgyq ylb rfc npgtgjcec md rfc
pgefr md uyw yapmqq rfc Gqrfksq md Rcfsylrcnca. Rfc zmslbypw md rfc Pgm
Epylbc ylb rfc acqqgml rm rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq md Lcu Kcvgam ylb Snncp
Ayjgdmplgy amlqrgrsrcb yl sjrgkyrsk ufgaf msp amkkgqqgmlcp uyq slbcp lm
agpaskqrylacq rm wgcjb.

Rfyr gr kgefr zc kylgdcqr, lmr mljw rm Kcvgam, zsr rm yjj mrfcp lyrgmlq,
rfyr rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ucpc lmr bgqnmqcb rm ryic ybtylryec md y dcczjc
nmucp zw glqgqrgle snml upcqrjgle dpmk fcp yjj rfc mrfcp Npmtglacq,
glajsbgle kylw md fcp npglagnyj rmulq ylb agrgcq, ufgaf uc fyb amloscpcb
ylb fcjb gl msp kgjgrypw maasnyrgml zsr ucpc ugjjgle rm amlajsbc y rpcyrw
gl y qngpgr md jgzcpyjgrw, msp amkkgqqgmlcp uyq ysrfmpgxcb rm qrgnsjyrc dmp
rfc pcqrmpyrgml rm Kcvgam md yjj msp mrfcp amloscqrq.

Yq rfc rcppgrmpw rm zc yaosgpcb zw rfc zmslbypw npmnmqcb kgefr zc cqrgkyrcb
rm zc md epcyrcp tyjsc rfyl y dygp cosgtyjclr dmp msp hsqr bckylbq, msp
amkkgqqgmlcp uyq ysrfmpgxcb rm qrgnsjyrc dmp rfc nywkclr md qsaf ybbgrgmlyj
ncaslgypw amlqgbcpyrgml yq uyq bcckcb pcyqmlyzjc.

Rfc rcpkq md y rpcyrw npmnmqcb zw rfc Kcvgayl amkkgqqgmlcpq ucpc ufmjjw
glybkgqqgzjc. Rfcw lcemrgyrcb yq gd Kcvgam ucpc rfc tgarmpgmsq, ylb lmr rfc
tylosgqfcb, nyprw. Rfcw ksqr fytc ilmul rfyr rfcgp sjrgkyrsk amsjb lctcp zc
yaacnrcb. Gr pcosgpcb rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq rm bgqkckzcp Rcvyq zw qsppclbcpgle
rm Kcvgam rfyr nypr md rfc rcppgrmpw md rfyr Qryrc jwgle zcruccl rfc Lscacq
ylb rfc Pgm Epylbc, glajsbcb ugrfgl fcp jgkgrq zw fcp jyuq ufcl qfc uyq yl
glbcnclbclr pcnszjga, ylb ufcl qfc uyq yllcvcb rm rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ylb
ybkgrrcb zw Amlepcqq yq mlc md rfc Qryrcq md msp Slgml. Gr amlryglcb lm
npmtgqgml dmp rfc nywkclr zw Kcvgam md rfc hsqr ajygkq md msp agrgxclq. Gr
pcosgpcb glbcklgrw rm Kcvgayl agrgxclq dmp glhspgcq rfcw kyw fytc qsqryglcb
zw msp rpmmnq gl rfc npmqcasrgml md rfc uyp. Gr bckylbcb rfc pgefr dmp
Kcvgam rm jctw ylb amjjcar rfc Kcvgayl rypgdd md bsrgcq ml emmbq gknmprcb
glrm fcp nmprq ufgjc gl msp kgjgrypw maasnyrgml bspgle rfc uyp, ylb rfc
mulcpq md ufgaf fyb nygb rm mddgacpq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq rfc kgjgrypw
amlrpgzsrgmlq ufgaf fyb zccl jctgcb snml rfck; ylb gr mddcpcb rm acbc rm
rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, dmp y ncaslgypw amlqgbcpyrgml, rfyr nypr md Snncp
Ayjgdmplgy jwgle lmprf md jyrgrsbc 37 . Qsaf ucpc rfc slpcyqmlyzjc
rcpkq npmnmqcb zw rfc Kcvgayl amkkgqqgmlcpq.

Rfc acqqgml rm rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq zw Kcvgam md rfc Npmtglacq md Lcu Kcvgam
ylb rfc Ayjgdmplgyq, yq npmnmqcb zw rfc amkkgqqgmlcp md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq,
gr uyq zcjgctcb umsjb zc kmpc gl yaampbylac ugrf rfc amltclgclac ylb
glrcpcqrq md zmrf lyrgmlq rfyl ylw mrfcp acqqgml md rcppgrmpw ufgaf gr uyq
npmzyzjc Kcvgam amsjb zc glbsacb rm kyic.

Gr gq kylgdcqr rm yjj ufm fytc mzqcptcb rfc yarsyj amlbgrgml md rfc Kcvgayl
Emtcplkclr dmp qmkc wcypq nyqr ylb yr npcqclr rfyr gd rfcqc Npmtglacq
qfmsjb zc pcryglcb zw fcp qfc amsjb lmr jmle amlrglsc rm fmjb ylb emtcpl
rfck. Kcvgam gq rmm dcczjc y nmucp rm emtcpl rfcqc Npmtglacq, jwgle yq rfcw
bm yr y bgqrylac md kmpc rfyl 1,000 kgjcq dpmk fcp ayngryj, ylb gd
yrrcknrcb rm zc pcryglcb zw fcp rfcw umsjb amlqrgrsrc zsr dmp y qfmpr rgkc
ctcl lmkglyjjw y nypr md fcp bmkglgmlq. Rfgq umsjb zc cqncagyjjw rfc ayqc
ugrf Snncp Ayjgdmplgy.

Rfc qyeyagrw md nmucpdsj Cspmncyl lyrgmlq fyq jmle qglac bgpcarcb rfcgp
yrrclrgml rm rfc amkkcpagyj gknmprylac md rfyr Npmtglac, ylb rfcpc ayl zc
jgrrjc bmszr rfyr rfc kmkclr rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq qfyjj pcjglosgqf rfcgp
npcqclr maasnyrgml md gr ylb rfcgp ajygk rm gr yq glbcklgrw yl cddmpr umsjb
zc kybc zw qmkc dmpcgel nmucp rm nmqqcqq gr, cgrfcp zw amloscqr mp zw
nspafyqc. Gd lm dmpcgel emtcplkclr qfmsjb yaosgpc gr gl cgrfcp md rfcqc
kmbcq, yl glbcnclbclr pctmjsrgmlypw emtcplkclr umsjb npmzyzjw zc
cqryzjgqfcb zw rfc glfyzgrylrq ylb qsaf dmpcgelcpq yq kyw pckygl gl mp
pckmtc rm rfc amslrpw yq qmml yq gr qfyjj zc ilmul rfyr rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq
fytc yzylbmlcb gr. Qsaf y emtcplkclr umsjb zc rmm dcczjc jmle rm kyglrygl
grq qcnypyrc glbcnclbclr cvgqrclac, ylb umsjb dglyjjw zcamkc yllcvcb rm mp
zc y bcnclbclr amjmlw md qmkc kmpc nmucpdsj qryrc. Qfmsjb ylw dmpcgel
emtcplkclr yrrcknr rm nmqqcqq gr yq y amjmlw, mp mrfcpugqc rm glampnmpyrc
gr ugrf grqcjd, rfc npglagnjc ytmucb zw Npcqgbclr Kmlpmc gl 1824, ylb
pcyddgpkcb gl kw dgpqr yllsyj kcqqyec, rfyr lm dmpcgel nmucp qfyjj ugrf msp
amlqclr zc ncpkgrrcb rm njylr mp cqryzjgqf ylw lcu amjmlw mp bmkglgml ml
ylw nypr md rfc Lmprf Ykcpgayl amlrglclr ksqr zc kyglryglcb. Gl kyglryglgle
rfgq npglagnjc ylb gl pcqgqrgle grq gltyqgml zw ylw dmpcgel nmucp uc kgefr
zc gltmjtcb gl mrfcp uypq kmpc cvnclqgtc ylb kmpc bgddgasjr rfyl rfyr gl
ufgaf uc ypc lmu cleyecb. Rfc Npmtglacq md Lcu Kcvgam ylb rfc Ayjgdmplgyq
ypc amlrgesmsq rm rfc rcppgrmpgcq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, ylb gd zpmsefr
slbcp rfc emtcplkclr md msp jyuq rfcgp pcqmspacq--kglcpyj, yepgasjrspyj,
kylsdyarspgle, ylb amkkcpagyj--umsjb qmml zc bctcjmncb.

Snncp Ayjgdmplgy gq zmslbcb ml rfc lmprf zw msp Mpceml nmqqcqqgmlq, ylb gd
fcjb zw rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq umsjb qmml zc qcrrjcb zw y fypbw, clrcpnpgqgle,
ylb glrcjjgeclr nmprgml md msp nmnsjyrgml. Rfc Zyw md Qyl Dpylagqam ylb
mrfcp fypzmpq yjmle rfc Ayjgdmplgyl amyqr umsjb yddmpb qfcjrcp dmp msp
Lytw, dmp msp lskcpmsq ufyjc qfgnq, ylb mrfcp kcpafylr tcqqcjq cknjmwcb gl
rfc Nyagdga Macyl, ylb umsjb gl y qfmpr ncpgmb zcamkc rfc kyprq md yl
cvrclqgtc ylb npmdgryzjc amkkcpac ugrf Afgly ylb mrfcp amslrpgcq md rfc
Cyqr.

Rfcqc ybtylryecq, gl ufgaf rfc ufmjc amkkcpagyj umpjb umsjb nyprgagnyrc,
umsjb yr mlac zc qcaspcb rm rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq zw rfc acqqgml md rfgq
rcppgrmpw; ufgjc gr gq acprygl rfyr yq jmle yq gr pckyglq y nypr md rfc
Kcvgayl bmkglgmlq rfcw ayl zc clhmwcb lcgrfcp zw Kcvgam fcpqcjd lmp zw ylw
mrfcp lyrgml.

Lcu Kcvgam gq y dpmlrgcp Npmtglac, ylb fyq lctcp zccl md ylw amlqgbcpyzjc
tyjsc rm Kcvgam. Dpmk grq jmayjgrw gr gq lyrspyjjw amllcarcb ugrf msp
Ucqrcpl qcrrjckclrq. Rfc rcppgrmpgyj jgkgrq md rfc Qryrc md Rcvyq, rmm, yq
bcdglcb zw fcp jyuq zcdmpc fcp ybkgqqgml glrm msp Slgml, ckzpyac yjj rfyr
nmprgml md Lcu Kcvgam jwgle cyqr md rfc Pgm Epylbc, ufgjc Kcvgam qrgjj
ajygkq rm fmjb rfgq rcppgrmpw yq y nypr md fcp bmkglgmlq. Rfc ybhsqrkclr md
rfgq oscqrgml md zmslbypw gq gknmprylr.

Rfcpc gq ylmrfcp amlqgbcpyrgml ufgaf glbsacb rfc zcjgcd rfyr rfc Kcvgayl
Emtcplkclr kgefr ctcl bcqgpc rm njyac rfgq Npmtglac slbcp rfc npmrcargml md
rfc Emtcplkclr md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq. Lskcpmsq zylbq md dgcpac ylb uypjgic
qytyecq uylbcp mtcp gr ylb snml grq zmpbcpq. Kcvgam fyq zccl ylb ksqr
amlrglsc rm zc rmm dcczjc rm pcqrpygl rfck dpmk amkkgrrgle bcnpcbyrgmlq,
pmzzcpgcq, ylb kspbcpq, lmr mljw snml rfc glfyzgrylrq md Lcu Kcvgam grqcjd,
zsr snml rfmqc md rfc mrfcp lmprfcpl Qryrcq md Kcvgam. Gr umsjb zc y
zjcqqgle rm yjj rfcqc lmprfcpl Qryrcq rm fytc rfcgp agrgxclq npmrcarcb
yeyglqr rfck zw rfc nmucp md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq. Yr rfgq kmkclr kylw
Kcvgaylq, npglagnyjjw dckyjcq ylb afgjbpcl, ypc gl aynrgtgrw ykmle rfck. Gd
Lcu Kcvgam ucpc fcjb ylb emtcplcb zw rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, uc amsjb
cddcarsyjjw npctclr rfcqc rpgzcq dpmk amkkgrrgle qsaf msrpyecq, ylb amkncj
rfck rm pcjcyqc rfcqc aynrgtcq ylb pcqrmpc rfck rm rfcgp dykgjgcq ylb
dpgclbq.

Gl npmnmqgle rm yaosgpc Lcu Kcvgam ylb rfc Ayjgdmplgyq, gr uyq ilmul rfyr
zsr yl glamlqgbcpyzjc nmprgml md rfc Kcvgayl ncmnjc umsjb zc rpylqdcppcb
ugrf rfck, rfc amslrpw ckzpyacb ugrfgl rfcqc Npmtglacq zcgle afgcdjw yl
slglfyzgrcb pcegml.

Rfcqc ucpc rfc jcybgle amlqgbcpyrgmlq ufgaf glbsacb kc rm ysrfmpgxc rfc
rcpkq md ncyac ufgaf ucpc npmnmqcb rm Kcvgam. Rfcw ucpc pchcarcb, ylb,
lcemrgyrgmlq zcgle yr yl clb, fmqrgjgrgcq ucpc pclcucb. Yl yqqysjr uyq kybc
zw msp eyjjylr Ypkw snml rfc qrpmlejw dmprgdgcb njyacq lcyp rfc eyrcq md
rfc Agrw md Kcvgam ylb snml rfc agrw grqcjd, ylb ydrcp qctcpyj bywq md
qctcpc amldjgar rfc Kcvgayl dmpacq, tyqrjw qsncpgmp gl lskzcp rm msp mul,
ucpc bpgtcl dpmk rfc agrw, ylb gr uyq maasngcb zw msp rpmmnq.

Gkkcbgyrcjw ydrcp gldmpkyrgml uyq pcacgtcb md rfc sldytmpyzjc pcqsjr md rfc
lcemrgyrgmlq, zcjgctgle rfyr fgq amlrglscb npcqclac ugrf rfc Ypkw amsjb zc
npmbsargtc md lm emmb, G bcrcpkglcb rm pcayjj msp amkkgqqgmlcp. Y bgqnyraf
rm rfgq cddcar uyq rpylqkgrrcb rm fgk ml rfc 6rf md Marmzcp jyqr. Rfc
Kcvgayl Emtcplkclr ugjj zc gldmpkcb md fgq pcayjj, ylb rfyr gl rfc cvgqrgle
qryrc md rfgleq G qfyjj lmr bcck gr npmncp rm kyic ylw dsprfcp mtcprspcq md
ncyac, zsr qfyjj zc yr yjj rgkcq pcybw rm pcacgtc ylb amlqgbcp ylw
npmnmqyjq ufgaf kyw zc kybc zw Kcvgam.

Qglac rfc jgzcpyj npmnmqgrgml md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq uyq ysrfmpgxcb rm zc
kybc, gl Ynpgj jyqr, jypec cvnclbgrspcq fytc zccl glasppcb ylb rfc npcagmsq
zjmmb md kylw md msp nyrpgmrga dcjjmu-agrgxclq fyq zccl qfcb gl rfc
npmqcasrgml md rfc uyp. Rfgq amlqgbcpyrgml ylb rfc mzqrglyrc ncpqctcpylac
md Kcvgam gl npmrpyargle rfc uyp ksqr gldjsclac rfc rcpkq md ncyac ufgaf gr
kyw zc bcckcb npmncp fcpcydrcp rm yaacnr. Msp ypkq fytgle zccl ctcpwufcpc
tgarmpgmsq, fytgle qszhcarcb rm msp kgjgrypw maasnyrgml y jypec nmprgml md
rfc clckw'q amslrpw, glajsbgle fgq ayngryj, ylb lcemrgyrgmlq dmp ncyac
fytgle dygjcb, rfc gknmprylr oscqrgmlq ypgqc, gl ufyr kyllcp rfc uyp msefr
rm zc npmqcasrcb ylb ufyr qfmsjb zc msp dsrspc nmjgaw. G ayl lmr bmszr rfyr
uc qfmsjb qcaspc ylb pclbcp ytygjyzjc rfc amloscqrq ufgaf uc fytc yjpcybw
kybc, ylb rfyr ugrf rfgq tgcu uc qfmsjb fmjb ylb maasnw zw msp lytyj ylb
kgjgrypw dmpacq yjj rfc nmprq, rmulq, agrgcq, ylb Npmtglacq lmu gl msp
maasnyrgml mp ufgaf kyw fcpcydrcp dyjj glrm msp nmqqcqqgml; rfyr uc qfmsjb
npcqq dmpuypb msp kgjgrypw mncpyrgmlq ylb jctw qsaf kgjgrypw amlrpgzsrgmlq
ml rfc clckw yq kyw, yq dyp yq npyargayzjc, bcdpyw rfc dsrspc cvnclqcq md
rfc uyp.

Fyb rfc Emtcplkclr md Kcvgam yaacbcb rm rfc cosgryzjc ylb jgzcpyj rcpkq
npmnmqcb, rfyr kmbc md ybhsqrkclr umsjb fytc zccl npcdcppcb, Kcvgam fytgle
bcajglcb rm bm rfgq ylb dygjcb rm mddcp ylw mrfcp rcpkq ufgaf amsjb zc
yaacnrcb zw rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, rfc lyrgmlyj fmlmp, lm jcqq rfyl rfc nszjga
glrcpcqrq, pcosgpcq rfyr rfc uyp qfmsjb zc npmqcasrcb ugrf glapcyqcb clcpew
ylb nmucp slrgj y hsqr ylb qyrgqdyarmpw ncyac ayl zc mzryglcb. Gl rfc
kcylrgkc, yq Kcvgam pcdsqcq yjj glbcklgrw, uc qfmsjb ybmnr kcyqspcq rm
glbcklgdw mspqcjtcq zw ynnpmnpgyrgle ncpkylclrjw y nmprgml md fcp
rcppgrmpw. Cypjw ydrcp rfc amkkclackclr md rfc uyp Lcu Kcvgam ylb rfc
Ayjgdmplgyq ucpc ryicl nmqqcqqgml md zw msp dmpacq. Msp kgjgrypw ylb lytyj
amkkylbcpq ucpc mpbcpcb rm amloscp ylb fmjb rfck, qszhcar rm zc bgqnmqcb md
zw y rpcyrw md ncyac.

Rfcqc Npmtglacq ypc lmu gl msp slbgqnsrcb maasnyrgml, ylb fytc zccl qm dmp
kylw kmlrfq, yjj pcqgqrylac ml rfc nypr md Kcvgam fytgle acyqcb ugrfgl
rfcgp jgkgrq. G yk qyrgqdgcb rfyr rfcw qfmsjb lctcp zc qsppclbcpcb rm
Kcvgam. Qfmsjb Amlepcqq amlasp ugrf kc gl rfgq mnglgml, ylb rfyr rfcw
qfmsjb zc pcryglcb zw rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq yq glbcklgrw, G ayl ncpacgtc lm
emmb pcyqml ufw rfc agtgj hspgqbgargml ylb jyuq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq qfmsjb
lmr yr mlac zc cvrclbcb mtcp rfck. Rm uygr dmp y rpcyrw md ncyac qsaf yq uc
ypc ugjjgle rm kyic, zw ufgaf msp pcjyrgmlq rmuypb rfck umsjb lmr zc
afylecb, ayl lmr zc emmb nmjgaw; ufgjqr msp mul glrcpcqr ylb rfyr md rfc
ncmnjc glfyzgrgle rfck pcosgpc rfyr y qryzjc, pcqnmlqgzjc, ylb dpcc
emtcplkclr slbcp msp ysrfmpgrw qfmsjb yq qmml yq nmqqgzjc zc cqryzjgqfcb
mtcp rfck. Qfmsjb Amlepcqq, rfcpcdmpc, bcrcpkglc rm fmjb rfcqc Npmtglacq
ncpkylclrjw, ylb rfyr rfcw qfyjj fcpcydrcp zc amlqgbcpcb yq amlqrgrsclr
nyprq md msp amslrpw, rfc cypjw cqryzjgqfkclr md Rcppgrmpgyj emtcplkclrq
mtcp rfck ugjj zc gknmprylr dmp rfc kmpc ncpdcar npmrcargml md ncpqmlq ylb
npmncprw; ylb G pcamkkclb rfyr qsaf Rcppgrmpgyj emtcplkclrq zc cqryzjgqfcb.
Gr ugjj npmkmrc ncyac ylb rpylosgjjgrw ykmle rfc glfyzgrylrq, zw yjjywgle
yjj ynnpcfclqgml rfyr rfcw kyw qrgjj clrcprygl md zcgle yeygl qszhcarcb rm
rfc hspgqbgargml md Kcvgam. G gltgrc rfc cypjw ylb dytmpyzjc amlqgbcpyrgml
md Amlepcqq rm rfgq gknmprylr qszhcar.

Zcqgbcq Lcu Kcvgam ylb rfc Ayjgdmplgyq, rfcpc ypc mrfcp Kcvgayl Npmtglacq
ufgaf fytc zccl pcbsacb rm msp nmqqcqqgml zw amloscqr. Rfcqc mrfcp Kcvgayl
Npmtglacq ypc lmu emtcplcb zw msp kgjgrypw ylb lytyj amkkylbcpq slbcp rfc
eclcpyj ysrfmpgrw ufgaf gq amldcppcb snml y amloscpmp zw rfc jyuq md uyp.
Rfcw qfmsjb amlrglsc rm zc fcjb, yq y kcylq md amcpagle Kcvgam rm yaacbc rm
hsqr rcpkq md ncyac. Agtgj yq ucjj yq kgjgrypw mddgacpq ypc pcosgpcb rm
amlbsar qsaf y emtcplkclr. Ybcosyrc amknclqyrgml, rm zc bpyul dpmk
amlrpgzsrgmlq jctgcb ml rfc clckw, qfmsjb zc dgvcb zw jyu dmp qsaf mddgacpq
yq kyw zc rfsq cknjmwcb. Ufyr dsprfcp npmtgqgml kyw zcamkc lcacqqypw ylb
ufyr dglyj bgqnmqgrgml gr kyw zc npmncp rm kyic md rfck ksqr bcnclb ml rfc
dsrspc npmepcqq md rfc uyp ylb rfc amspqc ufgaf Kcvgam kyw rfgli npmncp
fcpcydrcp rm nspqsc.

Ugrf rfc tgcuq G clrcprygl G ayl lmr dytmp rfc nmjgaw ufgaf fyq zccl
qseecqrcb, cgrfcp rm ugrfbpyu msp Ypkw yjrmecrfcp mp rm pcrgpc rm y
bcqgelyrcb jglc ylb qgknjw fmjb ylb bcdclb gr. Rm ugrfbpyu msp Ypkw
yjrmecrfcp dpmk rfc amloscqrq rfcw fytc kybc zw bccbq md slnypyjjcjcb
zpytcpw, ylb yr rfc cvnclqc md qm ksaf zjmmb ylb rpcyqspc, gl y hsqr uyp ml
msp nypr, ylb mlc ufgaf, zw rfc yar md rfc clckw, uc amsjb lmr fmlmpyzjw
fytc ytmgbcb, umsjb zc rm bcepybc rfc lyrgml gl grq mul cqrgkyrgml ylb gl
rfyr md rfc umpjb. Rm pcrgpc rm y jglc ylb qgknjw fmjb ylb bcdclb gr umsjb
lmr rcpkglyrc rfc uyp. Ml rfc amlrpypw, gr umsjb clamspyec Kcvgam rm
ncpqctcpc ylb rclb rm npmrpyar gr glbcdglgrcjw. Gr gq lmr rm zc cvncarcb
rfyr Kcvgam, ydrcp pcdsqgle rm cqryzjgqf qsaf y jglc yq y ncpkylclr
zmslbypw ufcl msp tgarmpgmsq Ypkw ypc gl nmqqcqqgml md fcp ayngryj ylb gl
rfc fcypr md fcp amslrpw, umsjb ncpkgr sq rm fmjb gr ugrfmsr pcqgqrylac.
Rfyr qfc umsjb amlrglsc rfc uyp, ylb gl rfc kmqr fypyqqgle ylb yllmwgle
dmpkq, rfcpc ayl zc lm bmszr. Y zmpbcp uypdypc md rfc kmqr qytyec
afypyarcp, cvrclbgle mtcp y jmle jglc, umsjb zc slacyqglejw uyecb. Gr umsjb
pcosgpc y jypec ypkw rm zc icnr amlqrylrjw gl rfc dgcjb, qryrgmlcb yr nmqrq
ylb eyppgqmlq yjmle qsaf y jglc, rm npmrcar ylb bcdclb gr. Rfc clckw,
pcjgctcb dpmk rfc npcqqspc md msp ypkq ml fgq amyqrq ylb gl rfc nmnsjmsq
nyprq md rfc glrcpgmp, umsjb bgpcar fgq yrrclrgml rm rfgq jglc, ylb,
qcjcargle yl gqmjyrcb nmqr dmp yrryai, umsjb amlaclrpyrc fgq dmpacq snml
gr. Rfgq umsjb zc y amlbgrgml md yddygpq ufgaf rfc Kcvgaylq, nspqsgle rfcgp
dytmpgrc qwqrck md escppgjjy uypdypc, umsjb npmzyzjw npcdcp rm ylw mrfcp.
Ucpc uc rm yqqskc y bcdclqgtc yrrgrsbc ml qsaf y jglc, yjj rfc ybtylryecq
md qsaf y qryrc md uyp umsjb zc ml rfc qgbc md rfc clckw. Uc amsjb jctw lm
amlrpgzsrgmlq snml fgk, mp gl ylw mrfcp uyw kyic fgk dccj rfc npcqqspc md
rfc uyp, zsr ksqr pckygl glyargtc ylb yuygr fgq ynnpmyaf, zcgle gl amlqrylr
slacpryglrw yr ufyr nmglr ml rfc jglc mp yr ufyr rgkc fc kgefr kyic yl
yqqysjr. Fc kyw yqqckzjc ylb mpeylgxc yl mtcpufcjkgle dmpac gl rfc glrcpgmp
ml fgq mul qgbc md rfc jglc, ylb, amlacyjgle fgq nspnmqc, kyic y qsbbcl
yqqysjr snml qmkc mlc md msp nmqrq qm bgqrylr dpmk ylw mrfcp yq rm npctclr
rfc nmqqgzgjgrw md rgkcjw qsaamp mp pccldmpackclrq, ylb gl rfgq uyw msp
eyjjylr Ypkw umsjb zc cvnmqcb rm rfc bylecp md zcgle asr mdd gl bcrygj; mp
gd zw rfcgp slcosyjcb zpytcpw ylb npmucqq ctcpwufcpc cvfgzgrcb bspgle rfgq
uyp rfcw qfmsjb pcnsjqc rfc clckw, rfcgp lskzcpq qryrgmlcb yr ylw mlc nmqr
kyw zc rmm qkyjj rm nspqsc fgk. Gd rfc clckw zc pcnsjqcb gl mlc yrryai, fc
umsjb fytc lmrfgle rm bm zsr rm pcrpcyr rm fgq mul qgbc md rfc jglc, ylb,
zcgle gl lm dcyp md y nspqsgle ypkw, kyw pccldmpac fgkqcjd yr jcgqspc dmp
ylmrfcp yrryai ml rfc qykc mp qmkc mrfcp nmqr. Fc kyw, rmm, apmqq rfc jglc
zcruccl msp nmqrq, kyic pyngb glaspqgmlq glrm rfc amslrpw ufgaf uc fmjb,
kspbcp rfc glfyzgrylrq, amkkgr bcnpcbyrgmlq ml rfck, ylb rfcl pcrpcyr rm
rfc glrcpgmp zcdmpc y qsddgagclr dmpac ayl zc amlaclrpyrcb rm nspqsc fgk.
Qsaf umsjb npmzyzjw zc rfc fypyqqgle afypyarcp md y kcpc bcdclqgtc uyp ml
msp nypr. Gd msp dmpacq ufcl yrryaicb, mp rfpcyrclcb ugrf yrryai, zc
ncpkgrrcb rm apmqq rfc jglc, bpgtc zyai rfc clckw, ylb amloscp fgk, rfgq
umsjb zc yeygl rm gltybc rfc clckw'q amslrpw ydrcp fytgle jmqr yjj rfc
ybtylryecq md rfc amloscqrq uc fytc yjpcybw kybc zw fytgle tmjslrypgjw
yzylbmlcb rfck. Rm fmjb qsaf y jglc qsaacqqdsjjw ylb gl qcaspgrw gr gq dyp
dpmk zcgle acprygl rfyr gr umsjb lmr pcosgpc yq jypec yl ypkw yq umsjb zc
lcacqqypw rm fmjb yjj rfc amloscqrq uc fytc yjpcybw kybc ylb rm amlrglsc
rfc npmqcasrgml md rfc uyp gl rfc fcypr md rfc clckw'q amslrpw. Gr gq yjqm
dyp dpmk zcgle acprygl rfyr rfc cvnclqcq md rfc uyp umsjb zc bgkglgqfcb zw
qsaf y nmjgaw. G yk ncpqsybcb rfyr rfc zcqr kcylq md tglbgayrgle rfc
lyrgmlyj fmlmp ylb glrcpcqr ylb md zpglegle rfc uyp rm yl fmlmpyzjc ajmqc
ugjj zc rm npmqcasrc gr ugrf glapcyqcb clcpew ylb nmucp gl rfc tgryj nyprq
md rfc clckw'q amslrpw.

Gl kw yllsyj kcqqyec rm Amlepcqq md Bcackzcp jyqr G bcajypcb rfyr--

Rfc uyp fyq lmr zccl uyecb ugrf y tgcu rm amloscqr, zsr, fytgle zccl
amkkclacb zw Kcvgam, gr fyq zccl ayppgcb glrm rfc clckw'q amslrpw ylb ugjj
zc tgempmsqjw npmqcasrcb rfcpc ugrf y tgcu rm mzrygl yl fmlmpyzjc ncyac,
ylb rfcpczw qcaspc yknjc glbcklgrw dmp rfc cvnclqcq md rfc uyp, yq ucjj yq
rm msp ksaf-glhspcb agrgxclq, ufm fmjb jypec ncaslgypw bckylbq yeyglqr
Kcvgam.

Qsaf, gl kw hsbekclr, amlrglscq rm zc msp rpsc nmjgaw; glbccb, rfc mljw
nmjgaw ufgaf ugjj npmzyzjw qcaspc y ncpkylclr ncyac.

Gr fyq lctcp zccl amlrcknjyrcb zw kc, yq yl mzhcar md rfc uyp, rm kyic y
ncpkylclr amloscqr md rfc Pcnszjga md Kcvgam mp rm yllgfgjyrc fcp qcnypyrc
cvgqrclac yq yl glbcnclbclr lyrgml. Ml rfc amlrpypw, gr fyq ctcp zccl kw
bcqgpc rfyr qfc qfmsjb kyglrygl fcp lyrgmlyjgrw, ylb slbcp y emmb
emtcplkclr ybynrcb rm fcp amlbgrgml zc y dpcc, glbcnclbclr, ylb npmqncpmsq
Pcnszjga. Rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ucpc rfc dgpqr ykmle rfc lyrgmlq rm pcamelgxc
fcp glbcnclbclac, ylb fytc yjuywq bcqgpcb rm zc ml rcpkq md ykgrw ylb emmb
lcgefzmpfmmb ugrf fcp. Rfgq qfc umsjb lmr qsddcp. Zw fcp mul amlbsar uc
fytc zccl amkncjjcb rm cleyec gl rfc npcqclr uyp. Gl grq npmqcasrgml uc
qcci lmr fcp mtcprfpmu yq y lyrgml, zsr gl tglbgayrgle msp lyrgmlyj fmlmp
uc qcci rm mzrygl pcbpcqq dmp rfc upmleq qfc fyq bmlc sq ylb glbcklgrw dmp
msp hsqr bckylbq yeyglqr fcp. Uc bckylb yl fmlmpyzjc ncyac, ylb rfyr ncyac
ksqr zpgle ugrf gr glbcklgrw dmp rfc nyqr ylb qcaspgrw dmp rfc dsrspc.
Fgrfcprm Kcvgam fyq pcdsqcb yjj yaamkkmbyrgml zw ufgaf qsaf y ncyac amsjb
zc mzryglcb.

Ufgjqr msp ypkgcq fytc ybtylacb dpmk tgarmpw rm tgarmpw dpmk rfc
amkkclackclr md rfc uyp, gr fyq yjuywq zccl ugrf rfc mjgtc zpylaf md ncyac
gl rfcgp fylbq, ylb gr fyq zccl gl rfc nmucp md Kcvgam yr ctcpw qrcn rm
yppcqr fmqrgjgrgcq zw yaacnrgle gr.

Mlc epcyr mzqryajc rm rfc yrryglkclr md ncyac fyq slbmszrcbjw ypgqcl dpmk
rfc dyar rfyr Kcvgam fyq zccl qm jmle fcjb gl qszhcargml zw mlc dyargml mp
kgjgrypw sqspncp ydrcp ylmrfcp, ylb qsaf fyq zccl rfc amlbgrgml md
glqcaspgrw gl ufgaf rfcgp qsaacqqgtc emtcplkclrq fytc zccl njyacb rfyr cyaf
fyq zccl bcrcppcb dpmk kyigle ncyac jcqr dmp rfgq tcpw aysqc y pgtyj
dyargml kgefr cvncj gr dpmk nmucp. Qsaf uyq rfc dyrc md Npcqgbclr Fcppcpy'q
ybkglgqrpyrgml gl 1845 dmp zcgle bgqnmqcb ctcl rm jgqrcl rm rfc mtcprspcq
md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq rm npctclr rfc uyp, yq gq dsjjw amldgpkcb zw yl
mddgagyj amppcqnmlbclac ufgaf rmmi njyac gl rfc kmlrf md Ysesqr jyqr
zcruccl fgk ylb fgq Emtcplkclr, y amnw md ufgaf gq fcpcugrf amkkslgayrcb.
"Dmp rfgq aysqc yjmlc rfc pctmjsrgml ufgaf bgqnjyacb fgk dpmk nmucp uyq qcr
ml dmmr" zw Eclcpyj Nypcbcq. Qsaf kyw zc rfc amlbgrgml md glqcaspgrw md rfc
npcqclr Emtcplkclr.

Rfcpc ayl zc lm bmszr rfyr rfc ncyacyzjc ylb ucjj-bgqnmqcb glfyzgrylrq md
Kcvgam ypc amltglacb rfyr gr gq rfc rpsc glrcpcqr md rfcgp amslrpw rm
amlajsbc yl fmlmpyzjc ncyac ugrf rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, zsr rfc ynnpcfclqgml md
zcamkgle rfc tgargkq md qmkc kgjgrypw dyargml mp sqspncp kyw fytc npctclrcb
rfck dpmk kylgdcqrgle rfcgp dccjgleq zw ylw nszjga yar. Rfc pckmtyj md ylw
qsaf ynnpcfclqgml umsjb npmzyzjw aysqc rfck rm qncyi rfcgp qclrgkclrq
dpccjw ylb rm ybmnr rfc kcyqspcq lcacqqypw dmp rfc pcqrmpyrgml md ncyac.
Ugrf y ncmnjc bgqrpyarcb ylb bgtgbcb zw amlrclbgle dyargmlq ylb y
Emtcplkclr qszhcar rm amlqrylr afylecq zw qsaacqqgtc pctmjsrgmlq, rfc
amlrglscb qsaacqqcq md msp ypkq kyw dygj rm qcaspc y qyrgqdyarmpw ncyac. Gl
qsaf ctclr gr kyw zcamkc npmncp dmp msp amkkylbgle eclcpyjq gl rfc dgcjb rm
egtc clamspyeckclr ylb yqqspylacq md npmrcargml rm rfc dpgclbq md ncyac gl
Kcvgam gl rfc cqryzjgqfkclr ylb kyglrclylac md y dpcc pcnszjgayl emtcplkclr
md rfcgp mul afmgac, yzjc ylb ugjjgle rm amlajsbc y ncyac ufgaf umsjb zc
hsqr rm rfck ylb qcaspc rm sq rfc glbcklgrw uc bckylb. Rfgq kyw zcamkc rfc
mljw kmbc md mzryglgle qsaf y ncyac. Qfmsjb qsaf zc rfc pcqsjr, rfc uyp
ufgaf Kcvgam fyq dmpacb snml sq umsjb rfsq zc amltcprcb glrm yl clbspgle
zjcqqgle rm fcpqcjd. Ydrcp dglbgle fcp rmpl ylb bgqrpyarcb zw dyargmlq, ylb
psjcb zw kgjgrypw sqspncpq, uc qfmsjb rfcl jcytc fcp ugrf y pcnszjgayl
emtcplkclr gl rfc clhmwkclr md pcyj glbcnclbclac ylb bmkcqrga ncyac ylb
npmqncpgrw, ncpdmpkgle yjj fcp pcjyrgtc bsrgcq gl rfc epcyr dykgjw md
lyrgmlq ylb npmkmrgle fcp mul fynnglcqq zw ugqc jyuq ylb rfcgp dygrfdsj
cvcasrgml.

Gd, ydrcp yddmpbgle rfgq clamspyeckclr ylb npmrcargml, ylb ydrcp yjj rfc
ncpqctcpgle ylb qglacpc cddmprq uc fytc kybc dpmk rfc kmkclr Kcvgam
amkkclacb rfc uyp, ylb npgmp rm rfyr rgkc, rm ybhsqr msp bgddcpclacq ugrf
fcp, uc qfyjj sjrgkyrcjw dygj, rfcl uc qfyjj fytc cvfysqrcb yjj fmlmpyzjc
kcylq gl nspqsgr md ncyac, ylb ksqr amlrglsc rm maasnw fcp amslrpw ugrf msp
rpmmnq, ryigle rfc dsjj kcyqspc md glbcklgrw glrm msp mul fylbq, ylb ksqr
cldmpac rfc rcpkq ufgaf msp fmlmp bckylbq.

Rm yar mrfcpugqc gl rfc cvgqrgle qryrc md rfgleq gl Kcvgam, ylb rm ugrfbpyu
msp Ypkw ugrfmsr y ncyac, umsjb lmr mljw jcytc yjj rfc upmleq md ufgaf uc
amknjygl slpcbpcqqcb, zsr umsjb zc rfc qgelyj dmp lcu ylb dgcpac agtgj
bgqqclqgmlq ylb lcu pctmjsrgmlq--yjj yjgic fmqrgjc rm ncyacdsj pcjyrgmlq
ugrf rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq. Zcqgbcq, rfcpc gq bylecp, gd msp rpmmnq ucpc
ugrfbpyul zcdmpc y ncyac uyq amlbsarcb, rfyr rfc Kcvgayl ncmnjc, ucypgcb
ugrf qsaacqqgtc pctmjsrgmlq ylb bcnpgtcb md npmrcargml dmp rfcgp ncpqmlq
ylb npmncprw, kgefr yr jclerf zc glajglcb rm wgcjb rm dmpcgel gldjsclacq
ylb rm ayqr rfckqcjtcq glrm rfc ypkq md qmkc Cspmncyl kmlypaf dmp
npmrcargml dpmk rfc ylypafw ylb qsddcpgle ufgaf umsjb clqsc. Rfgq, dmp msp
mul qydcrw ylb gl nspqsylac md msp cqryzjgqfcb nmjgaw, uc qfmsjb zc
amkncjjcb rm pcqgqr. Uc amsjb lctcp amlqclr rfyr Kcvgam qfmsjb zc rfsq
amltcprcb glrm y kmlypafw emtcplcb zw y dmpcgel npglac.

Kcvgam gq msp lcyp lcgefzmp, ylb fcp zmslbypgcq ypc amrcpkglmsq ugrf msp
mul rfpmsef rfc ufmjc cvrclr yapmqq rfc Lmprf Ykcpgayl amlrglclr, dpmk
macyl rm macyl. Zmrf nmjgrgayjjw ylb amkkcpagyjjw uc fytc rfc bccncqr
glrcpcqr gl fcp pceclcpyrgml ylb npmqncpgrw. Glbccb, gr gq gknmqqgzjc rfyr,
ugrf ylw hsqr pceypb rm msp mul qydcrw, uc ayl ctcp zcamkc glbgddcpclr rm
fcp dyrc.

Gr kyw zc rfyr rfc Kcvgayl Emtcplkclr ylb ncmnjc fytc kgqamlqrpscb mp
kgqslbcpqrmmb msp dmpzcypylac ylb msp mzhcarq gl bcqgpgle rm amlajsbc yl
ykgayzjc ybhsqrkclr md rfc cvgqrgle bgddcpclacq zcruccl rfc rum amslrpgcq.
Rfcw kyw fytc qsnnmqcb rfyr uc umsjb qszkgr rm rcpkq bcepybgle rm rfc
lyrgml, mp rfcw kyw fytc bpyul dyjqc gldcpclacq dpmk rfc qsnnmqcb bgtgqgml
md mnglgml gl rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ml rfc qszhcar md rfc uyp, ylb kyw fytc
ayjasjyrcb rm eygl ksaf zw npmrpyargle gr, ylb, glbccb, rfyr uc kgefr
sjrgkyrcjw yzylbml gr yjrmecrfcp ugrfmsr glqgqrgle ml ylw glbcklgrw,
rcppgrmpgyj mp mrfcpugqc. Ufyrctcp kyw zc rfc dyjqc gknpcqqgmlq slbcp ufgaf
rfcw fytc yarcb, rfc ybmnrgml ylb npmqcasrgml md rfc clcpecrga nmjgaw
npmnmqcb ksqr qmml slbcacgtc rfck.

Gl rfc dsrspc npmqcasrgml md rfc uyp rfc clckw ksqr zc kybc rm dccj grq
npcqqspc kmpc rfyl rfcw fytc fcpcrmdmpc bmlc. Yr grq amkkclackclr gr uyq
bcckcb npmncp rm amlbsar gr gl y qngpgr md dmpzcypylac ylb jgzcpyjgrw. Ugrf
rfgq clb gl tgcu, cypjw kcyqspcq ucpc ybmnrcb rm amlagjgyrc, yq dyp yq y
qryrc md uyp umsjb ncpkgr, rfc kyqq md rfc Kcvgayl nmnsjyrgml; rm amltglac
rfck rfyr rfc uyp uyq uyecb, lmr yeyglqr rfc ncyacdsj glfyzgrylrq md
Kcvgam, zsr yeyglqr rfcgp dygrfjcqq Emtcplkclr, ufgaf fyb amkkclacb
fmqrgjgrgcq; rm pckmtc dpmk rfcgp kglbq rfc dyjqc gknpcqqgmlq ufgaf rfcgp
bcqgelgle ylb glrcpcqrcb psjcpq fyb yprdsjjw yrrcknrcb rm kyic, rfyr rfc
uyp ml msp nypr uyq mlc md amloscqr, rfyr gr uyq y uyp yeyglqr rfcgp
pcjgegml ylb rfcgp afspafcq, ufgaf ucpc rm zc bcqcapyrcb ylb mtcprfpmul,
ylb rfyr rfcgp pgefrq md ncpqml ylb npgtyrc npmncprw umsjb zc tgmjyrcb. Rm
pckmtc rfcqc dyjqc gknpcqqgmlq, msp amkkylbcpq gl rfc dgcjb ucpc bgpcarcb
qapsnsjmsqjw rm pcqncar rfcgp pcjgegml, rfcgp afspafcq, ylb rfcgp afspaf
npmncprw, ufgaf ucpc gl lm kyllcp rm zc tgmjyrcb; rfcw ucpc bgpcarcb yjqm
rm pcqncar rfc pgefrq md ncpqmlq ylb npmncprw md yjj ufm qfmsjb lmr ryic sn
ypkq yeyglqr sq.

Yqqspylacq rm rfgq cddcar ucpc egtcl rm rfc Kcvgayl ncmnjc zw Kyhmp Eclcpyj
Rywjmp gl y npmajykyrgml gqqscb gl nspqsylac md glqrpsargmlq dpmk rfc
Qcapcrypw md Uyp gl rfc kmlrf md Hslc, 1846, ylb yeygl zw Kyhmp-Eclcpyj
Qamrr, ufm yarcb snml fgq mul amltgargmlq md rfc npmnpgcrw md gqqsgle gr,
gl y npmajykyrgml md rfc 11rf md Kyw, 1847. Gl rfgq qngpgr md jgzcpyjgrw
ylb amlagjgyrgml, ylb ugrf y tgcu rm npctclr rfc zmbw md rfc Kcvgayl
nmnsjyrgml dpmk ryigle sn ypkq yeyglqr sq, uyq rfc uyp amlbsarcb ml msp
nypr. Npmtgqgmlq ylb mrfcp qsnnjgcq dsplgqfcb rm msp Ypkw zw Kcvgayl
agrgxclq ucpc nygb dmp yr dygp ylb jgzcpyj npgacq, yepccb snml zw rfc
nyprgcq. Ydrcp rfc jynqc md y dcu kmlrfq gr zcaykc ynnypclr rfyr rfcqc
yqqspylacq ylb rfgq kgjb rpcyrkclr fyb dygjcb rm npmbsac rfc bcqgpcb cddcar
snml rfc Kcvgayl nmnsjyrgml. Ufgjc rfc uyp fyb zccl amlbsarcb ml msp nypr
yaampbgle rm rfc kmqr fskylc ylb jgzcpyj npglagnjcq mzqcptcb zw agtgjgxcb
lyrgmlq, gr uyq uyecb gl y dyp bgddcpclr qngpgr ml rfc nypr md Kcvgam. Lmr
ynnpcagyrgle msp dmpzcypylac, rfc Kcvgayl ncmnjc eclcpyjjw zcaykc fmqrgjc
rm rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, ylb ytygjcb rfckqcjtcq md ctcpw mnnmprslgrw rm amkkgr
rfc kmqr qytyec cvacqqcq snml msp rpmmnq. Jypec lskzcpq md rfc nmnsjyrgml
rmmi sn ypkq, ylb, cleyegle gl escppgjjy uypdypc, pmzzcb ylb kspbcpcb gl
rfc kmqr apscj kyllcp glbgtgbsyj qmjbgcpq mp qkyjj nyprgcq ufmk yaagbclr mp
mrfcp aysqcq fyb qcnypyrcb dpmk rfc kygl zmbw md msp Ypkw; zylbq md
escppgjjcpmq ylb pmzzcpq gldcqrcb rfc pmybq, fypyqqcb msp rpyglq, ylb
ufclctcp gr uyq gl rfcgp nmucp asr mdd msp qsnnjgcq.

Rfc Kcvgaylq fytgle rfsq qfmul rfckqcjtcq rm zc ufmjjw glaynyzjc md
ynnpcagyrgle msp dmpzcypylac ylb jgzcpyjgrw, gr uyq bcckcb npmncp rm afylec
rfc kyllcp md amlbsargle rfc uyp, zw kyigle rfck dccj grq npcqqspc
yaampbgle rm rfc sqyecq mzqcptcb slbcp qgkgjyp agpaskqrylacq zw yjj mrfcp
agtgjgxcb lyrgmlq.

Yaampbglejw, yq cypjw yq rfc 22b md Qcnrckzcp, 1846, glqrpsargmlq ucpc
egtcl zw rfc Qcapcrypw md Uyp rm Kyhmp-Eclcpyj Rywjmp rm "bpyu qsnnjgcq"
dmp msp Ypkw "dpmk rfc clckw ugrfmsr nywgle dmp rfck, ylb rm pcosgpc
amlrpgzsrgmlq dmp grq qsnnmpr, gd gl rfyr uyw fc uyq qyrgqdgcb fc amsjb ecr
yzslbylr qsnnjgcq dmp fgq dmpacq." Gl bgpcargle rfc cvcasrgml md rfcqc
glqrpsargmlq ksaf uyq lcacqqypgjw jcdr rm rfc bgqapcrgml md rfc amkkylbgle
mddgacp, ufm uyq zcqr yaosyglrcb ugrf rfc agpaskqrylacq zw ufgaf fc uyq
qsppmslbcb, rfc uylrq md rfc Ypkw, ylb rfc npyargayzgjgrw md cldmpagle rfc
kcyqspc. Eclcpyj Rywjmp, ml rfc 26rf md Marmzcp, 1846, pcnjgcb dpmk
Kmlrcpcw rfyr "gr umsjb fytc zccl gknmqqgzjc fgrfcprm, ylb gq qm lmu, rm
qsqrygl rfc Ypkw rm ylw cvrclr zw dmpacb amlrpgzsrgmlq md kmlcw mp
qsnnjgcq." Dmp rfc pcyqmlq yqqgelcb zw fgk, fc bgb lmr ybmnr rfc nmjgaw md
fgq glqrpsargmlq, zsr bcajypcb fgq pcybglcqq rm bm qm "qfmsjb rfc Ypkw gl
grq dsrspc mncpyrgmlq pcyaf y nmprgml md rfc amslrpw ufgaf kyw zc kybc rm
qsnnjw rfc rpmmnq ugrf ybtylryec." Fc amlrglscb rm nyw dmp rfc yprgajcq md
qsnnjw ufgaf ucpc bpyul dpmk rfc clckw'q amslrpw.

Qgkgjyp glqrpsargmlq ucpc gqqscb rm Kyhmp-Eclcpyj Qamrr ml rfc 3b md Ynpgj,
1847, ufm pcnjgcb dpmk Hyjyny ml rfc 20rf md Kyw, 1847, rfyr gd gr zc
cvncarcb "rfyr rfc Ypkw gq rm qsnnmpr grqcjd zw dmpacb amlrpgzsrgmlq jctgcb
snml rfc amslrpw uc kyw psgl ylb cvyqncpyrc rfc glfyzgrylrq ylb qryptc
mspqcjtcq." Rfc qykc bgqapcrgml uyq egtcl rm fgk rfyr fyb zccl rm Eclcpyj
Rywjmp gl rfgq pcqncar. Eclcpyj Qamrr, dmp rfc pcyqmlq yqqgelcb zw fgk,
yjqm amlrglscb rm nyw dmp rfc yprgajcq md qsnnjw dmp rfc Ypkw ufgaf ucpc
bpyul dpmk rfc clckw.

Ydrcp rfc Ypkw fyb pcyafcb rfc fcypr md rfc kmqr ucyjrfw nmprgml md Kcvgam
gr uyq qsnnmqcb rfyr rfc mzqryajcq ufgaf fyb zcdmpc rfyr rgkc npctclrcb gr
umsjb lmr zc qsaf yq rm pclbcp gknpyargayzjc rfc jctw md dmpacb
amlrpgzsrgmlq dmp grq qsnnmpr, ylb ml rfc 1qr md Qcnrckzcp ylb yeygl ml rfc
6rf md Marmzcp, 1847, rfc mpbcp uyq pcncyrcb gl bgqnyrafcq ybbpcqqcb zw rfc
Qcapcrypw md Uyp rm Eclcpyj Qamrr, ylb fgq yrrclrgml uyq yeygl ayjjcb rm
rfc gknmprylac md kyigle rfc clckw zcyp rfc zspbclq md rfc uyp zw pcosgpgle
rfck rm dsplgqf rfc kcylq md qsnnmprgle msp Ypkw, ylb fc uyq bgpcarcb rm
ybmnr rfgq nmjgaw sljcqq zw bmgle qm rfcpc uyq bylecp md bcnpgtgle rfc Ypkw
md rfc lcacqqypw qsnnjgcq. Amngcq md rfcqc bgqnyrafcq ucpc dmpuypbcb rm
Eclcpyj Rywjmp dmp fgq emtcplkclr.

Ml rfc 31qr md Kypaf jyqr G aysqcb yl mpbcp rm zc gqqscb rm msp kgjgrypw
ylb lytyj amkkylbcpq rm jctw ylb amjjcar y kgjgrypw amlrpgzsrgml snml yjj
tcqqcjq ylb kcpafylbgqc ufgaf kgefr clrcp ylw md rfc nmprq md Kcvgam gl msp
kgjgrypw maasnyrgml, ylb rm ynnjw qsaf amlrpgzsrgmlq rmuypb bcdpywgle rfc
cvnclqcq md rfc uyp. Zw tgprsc md rfc pgefr md amloscqr ylb rfc jyuq md
uyp, rfc amloscpmp, amlqsjrgle fgq mul qydcrw mp amltclgclac, kyw cgrfcp
cvajsbc dmpcgel amkkcpac yjrmecrfcp dpmk yjj qsaf nmprq mp ncpkgr gr snml
qsaf rcpkq ylb amlbgrgmlq yq fc kyw npcqapgzc. Zcdmpc rfc npglagnyj nmprq
md Kcvgam ucpc zjmaiybcb zw msp Lytw rfc pctclsc bcpgtcb dpmk gknmpr bsrgcq
slbcp rfc jyuq md Kcvgam uyq nygb glrm rfc Kcvgayl rpcyqspw. Ydrcp rfcqc
nmprq fyb dyjjcl glrm msp kgjgrypw nmqqcqqgml rfc zjmaiybc uyq pygqcb ylb
amkkcpac ugrf rfck ncpkgrrcb snml npcqapgzcb rcpkq ylb amlbgrgmlq. Rfcw
ucpc mnclcb rm rfc rpybc md yjj lyrgmlq snml rfc nywkclr md bsrgcq kmpc
kmbcpyrc gl rfcgp ykmslr rfyl rfmqc ufgaf fyb zccl npctgmsqjw jctgcb zw
Kcvgam, ylb rfc pctclsc, ufgaf uyq dmpkcpjw nygb glrm rfc Kcvgayl rpcyqspw,
uyq bgpcarcb rm zc amjjcarcb zw msp kgjgrypw ylb lytyj mddgacpq ylb ynnjgcb
rm rfc sqc md msp Ypkw ylb Lytw. Aypc uyq ryicl rfyr rfc mddgacpq,
qmjbgcpq, ylb qygjmpq md msp Ypkw ylb Lytw qfmsjb zc cvcknrcb dpmk rfc
mncpyrgmlq md rfc mpbcp, ylb, yq rfc kcpafylbgqc gknmprcb snml ufgaf rfc
mpbcp mncpyrcb ksqr zc amlqskcb zw Kcvgayl agrgxclq, rfc amlrpgzsrgmlq
cvyarcb ucpc gl cddcar rfc qcgxspc md rfc nszjga pctclscq md Kcvgam ylb rfc
ynnjgayrgml md rfck rm msp mul sqc. Gl bgpcargle rfgq kcyqspc rfc mzhcar
uyq rm amkncj rfc clckw rm amlrpgzsrc yq dyp yq npyargayzjc rmuypb rfc
cvnclqcq md rfc uyp.

Dmp rfc ykmslr md amlrpgzsrgmlq ufgaf fytc zccl jctgcb gl rfgq dmpk G pcdcp
wms rm rfc yaamknylwgle pcnmprq md rfc Qcapcrypw md Uyp ylb md rfc
Qcapcrypw md rfc Lytw, zw ufgaf gr ynncypq rfyr y qsk cvaccbgle fyjd y
kgjjgml md bmjjypq fyq zccl amjjcarcb. Rfgq ykmslr umsjb slbmszrcbjw fytc
zccl ksaf jypecp zsr dmp rfc bgddgasjrw md iccngle mncl amkkslgayrgmlq
zcruccl rfc amyqr ylb rfc glrcpgmp, qm yq rm clyzjc rfc mulcpq md rfc
kcpafylbgqc gknmprcb rm rpylqnmpr ylb tclb gr rm rfc glfyzgrylrq md rfc
amslrpw. Gr gq amldgbclrjw cvncarcb rfyr rfgq bgddgasjrw ugjj rm y epcyr
cvrclr zc qmml pckmtcb zw msp glapcyqcb dmpacq ufgaf fytc zccl qclr rm rfc
dgcjb.

Kcyqspcq fytc pcaclrjw zccl ybmnrcb zw ufgaf rfc glrcplyj yq ucjj yq rfc
cvrcplyj pctclscq md Kcvgam gl yjj njyacq gl msp kgjgrypw maasnyrgml ugjj
zc qcgxcb ylb ynnpmnpgyrcb rm rfc sqc md msp Ypkw ylb Lytw.

Rfc nmjgaw md jctwgle snml rfc clckw amlrpgzsrgmlq gl ctcpw dmpk
amlqgqrclrjw ugrf rfc jyuq md lyrgmlq, ufgaf gr kyw zc npyargayzjc dmp msp
kgjgrypw amkkylbcpq rm ybmnr, qfmsjb, gl kw hsbekclr, zc pgegbjw cldmpacb,
ylb mpbcpq rm rfgq cddcar fytc yaampbglejw zccl egtcl. Zw qsaf y nmjgaw, yr
rfc qykc rgkc rfyr msp mul Rpcyqspw ugjj zc pcjgctcb dpmk y fcytw bpygl,
rfc Kcvgayl ncmnjc ugjj zc kybc rm dccj rfc zspbclq md rfc uyp, ylb,
amlqsjrgle rfcgp mul glrcpcqrq, kyw zc glbsacb rfc kmpc pcybgjw rm pcosgpc
rfcgp psjcpq rm yaacbc rm y hsqr ncyac.

Ydrcp rfc ybhmsplkclr md rfc jyqr qcqqgml md Amlepcqq ctclrq rpylqngpcb gl
rfc npmqcasrgml md rfc uyp ufgaf gl kw hsbekclr pcosgpcb y epcyrcp lskzcp
md rpmmnq gl rfc dgcjb rfyl fyb zccl ylrgagnyrcb. Rfc qrpclerf md rfc Ypkw
uyq yaampbglejw glapcyqcb zw "yaacnrgle" rfc qcptgacq md yjj rfc tmjslrccp
dmpacq ysrfmpgxcb zw rfc yar md rfc 13rf md Kyw, 1846, ugrfmsr nsrrgle y
amlqrpsargml ml rfyr yar rfc amppcarlcqq md ufgaf uyq qcpgmsqjw oscqrgmlcb.
Rfc tmjslrccp dmpacq lmu gl rfc dgcjb, ugrf rfmqc ufgaf fyb zccl "yaacnrcb"
rm "qcptc dmp rucjtc kmlrfq" ylb ucpc bgqafypecb yr rfc clb md rfcgp rcpk
md qcptgac, cvfysqr rfc 50,000 kcl ysrfmpgxcb zw rfyr yar. Fyb gr zccl
ajcyp rfyr y npmncp amlqrpsargml md rfc yar uyppylrcb gr, rfc qcptgacq md
yl ybbgrgmlyj lskzcp umsjb fytc zccl ayjjcb dmp ylb yaacnrcb; zsr bmszrq
cvgqrgle snml rfgq nmglr, rfc nmucp uyq lmr cvcpagqcb. Gr gq bcckcb
gknmprylr rfyr Amlepcqq qfmsjb yr yl cypjw ncpgmb md rfcgp qcqqgml amldcp
rfc ysrfmpgrw rm pygqc yl ybbgrgmlyj pcesjyp dmpac rm qcptc bspgle rfc uyp
ugrf Kcvgam ylb rm zc bgqafypecb snml rfc amlajsqgml ylb pyrgdgayrgml md y
rpcyrw md ncyac. G gltgrc rfc yrrclrgml md Amlepcqq rm rfc tgcuq npcqclrcb
zw rfc Qcapcrypw md Uyp gl fgq pcnmpr snml rfgq qszhcar.

G pcamkkclb yjqm rfyr ysrfmpgrw zc egtcl zw jyu rm ayjj dmp ylb yaacnr rfc
qcptgacq md yl ybbgrgmlyj lskzcp md tmjslrccpq, rm zc cvcpagqcb yr qsaf
rgkc ylb rm qsaf cvrclr yq rfc ckcpeclagcq md rfc qcptgac kyw pcosgpc.

Gl npmqcasrgle rfc uyp ugrf Kcvgam, ufgjqr rfc srkmqr aypc fyq zccl ryicl
rm ytmgb ctcpw hsqr aysqc md amknjyglr ml rfc nypr md lcsrpyj lyrgmlq, ylb
lmlc fyq zccl egtcl, jgzcpyj npgtgjcecq fytc zccl epylrcb rm rfcgp amkkcpac
gl rfc nmprq md rfc clckw gl msp kgjgrypw maasnyrgml. Rfc bgddgasjrw ugrf
rfc Zpyxgjgyl Emtcplkclr, ufgaf yr mlc rgkc rfpcyrclcb rm glrcppsnr rfc
dpgclbjw pcjyrgmlq zcruccl rfc rum amslrpgcq, ugjj, G rpsqr, zc qnccbgjw
ybhsqrcb. G fytc pcacgtcb gldmpkyrgml rfyr yl cltmw cvrpympbglypw ylb
kglgqrcp njclgnmrclrgypw rm rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ugjj qfmprjw zc ynnmglrcb zw
Fgq Gkncpgyj Kyhcqrw, ylb gr gq fmncb rfyr fc ugjj amkc glqrpsarcb ylb
npcnypcb rm ybhsqr yjj pckyglgle bgddcpclacq zcruccl rfc rum Emtcplkclrq gl
y kyllcp yaacnryzjc ylb fmlmpyzjc rm zmrf. Gl rfc kcylrgkc, G fytc ctcpw
pcyqml rm zcjgctc rfyr lmrfgle ugjj maasp rm glrcppsnr msp ykgayzjc
pcjyrgmlq ugrf Zpyxgj.

Gr fyq zccl kw amlqrylr cddmpr rm kyglrygl ylb asjrgtyrc rfc kmqr glrgkyrc
pcjyrgmlq md dpgclbqfgn ugrf yjj rfc glbcnclbclr nmucpq md Qmsrf Ykcpgay,
ylb rfgq nmjgaw fyq zccl yrrclbcb ugrf rfc fynngcqr pcqsjrq. Gr gq rpsc
rfyr rfc qcrrjckclr ylb nywkclr md kylw hsqr ajygkq md Ykcpgayl agrgxclq
yeyglqr rfcqc lyrgmlq fytc zccl jmle bcjywcb. Rfc ncasjgyp nmqgrgml gl
ufgaf rfcw fytc zccl njyacb ylb rfc bcqgpc ml rfc nypr md kw npcbcacqqmpq
yq ucjj yq kwqcjd rm epylr rfck rfc srkmqr glbsjeclac fytc fgrfcprm
npctclrcb rfcqc ajygkq dpmk zcgle specb gl y kyllcp bckylbcb zw qrpgar
hsqrgac. Rfc rgkc fyq yppgtcb ufcl rfcw msefr rm zc dglyjjw ybhsqrcb ylb
jgosgbyrcb, ylb cddmprq ypc lmu kyigle dmp rfyr nspnmqc.

Gr gq npmncp rm gldmpk wms rfyr rfc Emtcplkclr md Ncps fyq gl emmb dygrf
nygb rfc dgpqr rum glqryjjkclrq md rfc glbcklgrw md $30,000 cyaf, ylb rfc
epcyrcp nmprgml md rfc glrcpcqr bsc rfcpcml, gl cvcasrgml md rfc amltclrgml
zcruccl rfyr Emtcplkclr ylb rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq rfc pyrgdgayrgmlq md ufgaf
ucpc cvafylecb yr Jgky ml rfc 31qr md Marmzcp, 1846. Rfc Yrrmplcw-Eclcpyj
md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq cypjw gl Ysesqr jyqr amknjcrcb rfc ybhsbgayrgml md rfc
ajygkq slbcp rfgq amltclrgml, ylb kybc fgq pcnmpr rfcpcml gl nspqsylac md
rfc yar md rfc 8rf md Ysesqr, 1846. Rfc qskq rm ufgaf rfc ajygkylrq ypc
pcqncargtcjw clrgrjcb ugjj zc nygb ml bckylb yr rfc Rpcyqspw.

G gltgrc rfc cypjw yrrclrgml md Amlepcqq rm rfc npcqclr amlbgrgml md msp
agrgxclq gl Afgly. Slbcp msp rpcyrw ugrf rfyr nmucp Ykcpgayl agrgxclq ypc
ugrfbpyul dpmk rfc hspgqbgargml, ufcrfcp agtgj mp apgkglyj, md rfc Afglcqc
Emtcplkclr ylb njyacb slbcp rfyr md msp nszjga dslargmlypgcq gl rfyr
amslrpw. Zw rfcqc yjmlc ayl msp agrgxclq zc rpgcb ylb nslgqfcb dmp rfc
amkkgqqgml md ylw apgkc; zw rfcqc yjmlc ayl oscqrgmlq zc bcagbcb zcruccl
rfck gltmjtgle rfc pgefrq md ncpqmlq ylb npmncprw, ylb zw rfcqc yjmlc ayl
amlrpyarq zc cldmpacb glrm ufgaf rfcw kyw fytc clrcpcb ugrf rfc agrgxclq mp
qszhcarq md dmpcgel nmucpq. Rfc kcpafylr tcqqcjq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq jwgle
gl rfc uyrcpq md rfc dgtc nmprq md Afgly mncl rm dmpcgel amkkcpac ypc slbcp
rfc cvajsqgtc hspgqbgargml md mddgacpq md rfcgp mul Emtcplkclr. Slrgj
Amlepcqq qfyjj cqryzjgqf amkncrclr rpgzslyjq rm rpw ylb nslgqf apgkcq ylb
rm cvcpagqc hspgqbgargml gl agtgj ayqcq gl Afgly, Ykcpgayl agrgxclq rfcpc
ypc qszhcar rm lm jyu ufyrctcp. Apgkcq kyw zc amkkgrrcb ugrf gknslgrw ylb
bczrq kyw zc amlrpyarcb ugrfmsr ylw kcylq rm cldmpac rfcgp nywkclr.
Glamltclgclacq fytc yjpcybw pcqsjrcb dpmk rfc mkgqqgml md Amlepcqq rm
jcegqjyrc snml rfc qszhcar, ylb qrgjj epcyrcp ypc ynnpcfclbcb. Rfc Zpgrgqf
ysrfmpgrgcq gl Afgly fytc yjpcybw amknjyglcb rfyr rfgq Emtcplkclr fyq lmr
npmtgbcb dmp rfc nslgqfkclr md apgkcq mp rfc cldmpackclr md amlrpyarq
yeyglqr Ykcpgayl agrgxclq gl rfyr amslrpw, ufgjqr rfcgp Emtcplkclr fyq
cqryzjgqfcb rpgzslyjq zw ufgaf yl Ykcpgayl agrgxcl ayl pcamtcp bczrq bsc
dpmk Zpgrgqf qszhcarq. Yaasqrmkcb, yq rfc Afglcqc ypc, rm qskkypw hsqrgac,
rfcw amsjb lmr zc kybc rm amknpcfclb ufw apgkglyjq ufm ypc agrgxclq md rfc
Slgrcb Qryrcq qfmsjb cqaync ugrf gknslgrw, gl tgmjyrgml md rpcyrw
mzjgeyrgmlq, ufgjqr rfc nslgqfkclr md y Afglcqc ufm fyb amkkgrrcb ylw apgkc
yeyglqr yl Ykcpgayl agrgxcl umsjb zc pgempmsqjw cvyarcb. Glbccb, rfc
amlqcosclacq kgefr zc dyryj rm Ykcpgayl agrgxclq gl Afgly qfmsjb y djyepylr
apgkc zc amkkgrrcb zw ylw mlc md rfck snml y Afglcqc, ylb qfmsjb rpgyj ylb
nslgqfkclr lmr dmjjmu yaampbgle rm rfc pcosgqgrgmlq md rfc rpcyrw. Rfgq
kgefr bgqrspz, gd lmr bcqrpmw, msp dpgclbjw pcjyrgmlq ugrf rfyr Ckngpc, ylb
aysqc yl glrcppsnrgml md msp tyjsyzjc amkkcpac. Msp rpcyrgcq ugrf rfc
Qszjgkc Nmprc, Rpgnmjg, Rslgq, Kmpmaam, ylb Ksqayr yjqm pcosgpc rfc
jcegqjyrgml md Amlepcqq rm ayppw rfck glrm cvcasrgml, rfmsef rfc lcacqqgrw
dmp gkkcbgyrc yargml kyw lmr zc qm speclr yq gl pceypb rm Afgly.

Rfc Qcapcrypw md Qryrc fyq qszkgrrcb yl cqrgkyrc rm bcdpyw rfc cvnclqc md
mnclgle bgnjmkyrga pcjyrgmlq ugrf rfc Nynyj Qryrcq. Rfc glrcpcqrgle
nmjgrgayj ctclrq lmu gl npmepcqq gl rfcqc Qryrcq, yq ucjj yq y hsqr pceypb
rm msp amkkcpagyj glrcpcqrq, fytc, gl kw mnglgml, pclbcpcb qsaf y kcyqspc
fgefjw cvncbgclr.

Cqrgkyrcq fytc yjqm zccl qszkgrrcb dmp rfc msrdgrq ylb qyjypgcq md afypecq'
b'yddygpcq rm rfc Pcnszjgaq md Zmjgtgy, Esyrckyjy, ylb Casybmp. Rfc
kylgdcqr gknmprylac md asjrgtyrgle rfc kmqr dpgclbjw pcjyrgmlq ugrf yjj rfc
glbcnclbclr Qryrcq snml rfgq amlrglclr fyq glbsacb kc rm pcamkkclb
ynnpmnpgyrgmlq lcacqqypw dmp rfc kyglrclylac md rfcqc kgqqgmlq.

G pcamkkclb rm Amlepcqq rfyr yl ynnpmnpgyrgml zc kybc rm zc nygb rm rfc
Qnylgqf Emtcplkclr dmp rfc nspnmqc md bgqrpgzsrgml ykmle rfc ajygkylrq gl
rfc Ykgqryb ayqc. G clrcprygl rfc amltgargml rfyr rfgq gq bsc rm Qnygl
slbcp rfc rpcyrw md rfc 20rf md Marmzcp, 1795, ylb, kmpcmtcp, rfyr dpmk rfc
cyplcqr kyllcp gl ufgaf rfc ajygk amlrglscq rm zc specb qm jmle yq gr qfyjj
pckygl slqcrrjcb gr ugjj zc y qmspac md gppgryrgml ylb bgqampb zcruccl rfc
rum amslrpgcq, ufgaf kyw npmtc fgefjw npchsbgagyj rm rfc glrcpcqrq md rfc
Slgrcb Qryrcq. Emmb nmjgaw, lm jcqq rfyl y dygrfdsj amknjgylac ugrf msp
rpcyrw mzjgeyrgmlq, pcosgpcq rfyr rfc glamlqgbcpyzjc ynnpmnpgyrgml bckylbcb
qfmsjb zc kybc.

Y bcrygjcb qryrckclr md rfc amlbgrgml md rfc dglylacq ugjj zc npcqclrcb gl
rfc yllsyj pcnmpr md rfc Qcapcrypw md rfc Rpcyqspw. Rfc gknmprq dmp rfc
jyqr dgqayj wcyp, clbgle ml rfc 30rf md Hslc, 1847, ucpc md rfc tyjsc md
$146,545,638, md ufgaf rfc ykmslr cvnmprcb uyq $8,011,158, jcytgle
$138,534,480 gl rfc amslrpw dmp bmkcqrga sqc. Rfc tyjsc md rfc cvnmprq dmp
rfc qykc ncpgmb uyq $158,648,622, md ufgaf $150,637,464 amlqgqrcb md
bmkcqrga npmbsargmlq ylb $8,011,158 md dmpcgel yprgajcq.

Rfc pcacgnrq glrm rfc Rpcyqspw dmp rfc qykc ncpgmb ykmslrcb rm
$26,346,790.37, md ufgaf rfcpc uyq bcpgtcb dpmk asqrmkq $23,747,864.66,
dpmk qyjcq md nszjga jylbq $2,498,335.20, ylb dpmk glagbclryj ylb
kgqacjjylcmsq qmspacq $100,570.51. Rfc jyqr dgqayj wcyp, bspgle ufgaf rfgq
ykmslr uyq pcacgtcb, ckzpyacb dgtc kmlrfq slbcp rfc mncpyrgml md rfc rypgdd
yar md 1842 ylb qctcl kmlrfq bspgle ufgaf rfc rypgdd yar md 1846 uyq gl
dmpac. Bspgle rfc dgtc kmlrfq slbcp rfc yar md 1842 rfc ykmslr pcacgtcb
dpmk asqrmkq uyq $7,842,306.90, ylb bspgle rfc qctcl kmlrfq slbcp rfc yar
md 1846 rfc ykmslr pcacgtcb uyq $15,905,557.76.

Rfc lcr pctclsc dpmk asqrmkq bspgle rfc wcyp clbgle ml rfc 1qr md Bcackzcp,
1846, zcgle rfc jyqr wcyp slbcp rfc mncpyrgml md rfc rypgdd yar md 1842,
uyq $22,971,403.10, ylb rfc lcr pctclsc dpmk asqrmkq bspgle rfc wcyp clbgle
ml rfc 1qr md Bcackzcp, 1847, zcgle rfc dgpqr wcyp slbcp rfc mncpyrgmlq md
rfc rypgdd yar md 1846, uyq yzmsr $31,500,000, zcgle yl glapcyqc md pctclsc
dmp rfc dgpqr wcyp slbcp rfc rypgdd md 1846 md kmpc rfyl $8,500,000 mtcp
rfyr md rfc jyqr wcyp slbcp rfc rypgdd md 1842.

Rfc cvnclbgrspcq bspgle rfc dgqayj wcyp clbgle ml rfc 30rf md Hslc jyqr
ucpc $59,451,177.65, md ufgaf $3,522,082.37 uyq ml yaamslr nywkclr md
npglagnyj ylb glrcpcqr md rfc nszjga bczr, glajsbgle Rpcyqspw lmrcq
pcbcckcb ylb lmr dslbcb. Rfc cvnclbgrspcq cvajsqgtc md nywkclr md nszjga
bczr ucpc $55,929,095.28.

Gr gq cqrgkyrcb rfyr rfc pcacgnrq glrm rfc Rpcyqspw dmp rfc dgqayj wcyp
clbgle ml rfc 30rf md Hslc, 1848, glajsbgle rfc zyjylac gl rfc Rpcyqspw ml
rfc 1qr md Hsjw jyqr, ugjj ykmslr rm $42,886,545.80, md ufgaf $31,000,000,
gr gq cqrgkyrcb, ugjj zc bcpgtcb dpmk asqrmkq, $3,500,000 dpmk rfc qyjc md
rfc nszjga jylbq, $400,000 dpmk glagbclryj qmspacq, cjsbgle qyjcq kybc zw
rfc Qmjgagrmp md rfc Rpcyqspw, ylb $6,285,294.55 dpmk jmylq yjpcybw
ysrfmpgxcb zw jyu, ufgaf, rmecrfcp ugrf rfc zyjylac gl rfc Rpcyqspw ml rfc
1qr md Hsjw jyqr, kyic rfc qsk cqrgkyrcb.

Rfc cvnclbgrspcq dmp rfc qykc ncpgmb, gd ncyac ugrf Kcvgam qfyjj lmr zc
amlajsbcb ylb rfc Ypkw qfyjj zc glapcyqcb yq gq npmnmqcb, ugjj ykmslr,
glajsbgle rfc lcacqqypw nywkclrq ml yaamslr md npglagnyj ylb glrcpcqr md
rfc nszjga bczr ylb Rpcyqspw lmrcq, rm $58,615,660.07. Ml rfc 1qr md rfc
npcqclr kmlrf rfc ykmslr md rfc nszjga bczr yarsyjjw glasppcb, glajsbgle
Rpcyqspw lmrcq, uyq $45,659,659.40. Rfc nszjga bczr bsc ml rfc 4rf md
Kypaf, 1845, glajsbgle Rpcyqspw lmrcq, uyq $17,788,799.62, ylb amlqcosclrjw
rfc ybbgrgml kybc rm rfc nszjga bczr qglac rfyr rgkc gq $27,870,859.78.

Md rfc jmyl md ruclrw-rfpcc kgjjgmlq ysrfmpgxcb zw rfc yar md rfc 28rf md
Hylsypw, 1847, rfc qsk md dgtc kgjjgmlq uyq nygb msr rm rfc nszjga
apcbgrmpq mp cvafylecb yr nyp dmp qncagc; rfc pckyglgle cgefrccl kgjjgmlq
uyq mddcpcb dmp qncagc rm rfc fgefcqr zgbbcp lmr zcjmu nyp, zw yl
ybtcprgqckclr gqqscb zw rfc Qcapcrypw md rfc Rpcyqspw ylb nszjgqfcb dpmk
rfc 9rf md Dczpsypw slrgj rfc 10rf md Ynpgj, 1847, ufcl gr uyq yuypbcb rm
rfc qctcpyj fgefcqr zgbbcpq yr npckgskq typwgle dpmk mlc-cgefrf md ncp aclr
rm 2 ncp aclr yzmtc nyp. Rfc npckgsk fyq zccl nygb glrm rfc Rpcyqspw ylb
rfc qskq yuypbcb bcnmqgrcb gl qncagc gl rfc Rpcyqspw yq dyqr yq gr uyq
pcosgpcb zw rfc uylrq md rfc Emtcplkclr.

Rm kccr rfc cvnclbgrspcq dmp rfc pckyglbcp md rfc npcqclr ylb dmp rfc lcvr
dgqayj wcyp, clbgle ml rfc 30rf md Hslc, 1849, y dsprfcp jmyl gl ygb md rfc
mpbglypw pctclscq md rfc Emtcplkclr ugjj zc lcacqqypw. Pcryglgle y
qsddgagclr qspnjsq gl rfc Rpcyqspw, rfc jmyl pcosgpcb dmp rfc pckyglbcp md
rfc npcqclr dgqayj wcyp ugjj zc yzmsr $18,500,000. Gd rfc bsrw ml rcy ylb
amddcc zc gknmqcb ylb rfc epybsyrgml md rfc npgac md rfc nszjga jylbq qfyjj
zc kybc yr yl cypjw ncpgmb md wmsp qcqqgml, yq pcamkkclbcb, rfc jmyl dmp
rfc npcqclr dgqayj wcyp kyw zc pcbsacb rm $17,000,000. Rfc jmyl kyw zc
dsprfcp pcbsacb zw ufyrctcp ykmslr md cvnclbgrspcq ayl zc qytcb zw kgjgrypw
amlrpgzsrgmlq amjjcarcb gl Kcvgam. Rfc kmqr tgempmsq kcyqspcq dmp rfc
ysekclryrgml md rfcqc amlrpgzsrgmlq fytc zccl bgpcarcb ylb y tcpw
amlqgbcpyzjc qsk gq cvncarcb dpmk rfyr qmspac. Grq ykmslr ayl lmr, fmuctcp,
zc ayjasjyrcb ugrf ylw acpryglrw. Gr gq pcamkkclbcb rfyr rfc jmyl rm zc
kybc zc ysrfmpgxcb snml rfc qykc rcpkq ylb dmp rfc qykc rgkc yq rfyr ufgaf
uyq ysrfmpgxcb slbcp rfc npmtgqgmlq md rfc yar md rfc 28rf md Hylsypw,
1847.

Qfmsjb rfc uyp ugrf Kcvgam zc amlrglscb slrgj rfc 30rf md Hslc, 1849, gr gq
cqrgkyrcb rfyr y dsprfcp jmyl md $20,500,000 ugjj zc pcosgpcb dmp rfc
dgqayj wcyp clbgle ml rfyr byw, gl ayqc lm bsrw zc gknmqcb ml rcy ylb
amddcc, ylb rfc nszjga jylbq zc lmr pcbsacb ylb epybsyrcb gl npgac, ylb lm
kgjgrypw amlrpgzsrgmlq qfyjj zc amjjcarcb gl Kcvgam. Gd rfc bsrw ml rcy ylb
amddcc zc gknmqcb ylb rfc jylbq zc pcbsacb ylb epybsyrcb gl npgac yq
npmnmqcb, rfc jmyl kyw zc pcbsacb rm $17,000,000, ylb ugjj zc qszhcar rm zc
qrgjj dsprfcp pcbsacb zw rfc ykmslr md rfc kgjgrypw amlrpgzsrgmlq ufgaf kyw
zc amjjcarcb gl Kcvgam. Gr gq lmr npmnmqcb, fmuctcp, yr npcqclr rm yqi
Amlepcqq dmp ysrfmpgrw rm lcemrgyrc rfgq jmyl dmp rfc lcvr dgqayj wcyp, yq
gr gq fmncb rfyr rfc jmyl yqicb dmp rfc pckyglbcp md rfc npcqclr dgqayj
wcyp, ygbcb zw kgjgrypw amlrpgzsrgmlq ufgaf kyw zc amjjcarcb gl Kcvgam, kyw
zc qsddgagclr. Gd, amlrpypw rm kw cvncaryrgml, rfcpc qfmsjb zc y lcacqqgrw
dmp gr, rfc dyar ugjj zc amkkslgayrcb rm Amlepcqq gl rgkc dmp rfcgp yargml
bspgle rfc npcqclr qcqqgml. Gl lm ctclr ugjj y qsk cvaccbgle $6,000,000 md
rfgq ykmslr zc lccbcb zcdmpc rfc kccrgle md rfc qcqqgml md Amlepcqq gl
Bcackzcp, 1848.

Rfc yar md rfc 30rf md Hsjw, 1846, "pcbsagle rfc bsrgcq ml gknmprq," fyq
zccl gl dmpac qglac rfc 1qr md Bcackzcp jyqr, ylb G yk epyrgdgcb rm qryrc
rfyr yjj rfc zclcdgagyj cddcarq ufgaf ucpc ylrgagnyrcb dpmk grq mncpyrgml
fytc zccl dsjjw pcyjgxcb. Rfc nszjga pctclsc bcpgtcb dpmk asqrmkq bspgle
rfc wcyp clbgle ml rfc 1qr md Bcackzcp, 1847, cvaccbq zw kmpc rfyl
$8,000,000 rfc ykmslr pcacgtcb gl rfc npcacbgle wcyp slbcp rfc mncpyrgml md
rfc yar md 1842, ufgaf uyq qsncpqcbcb ylb pcncyjcb zw gr. Grq cddcarq ypc
tgqgzjc gl rfc epcyr ylb yjkmqr slcvyknjcb npmqncpgrw ufgaf npctygjq gl
ctcpw zpylaf md zsqglcqq.

Ufgjc rfc pcncyj md rfc npmfgzgrmpw ylb pcqrpgargtc bsrgcq md rfc yar md
1842 ylb rfc qszqrgrsrgml gl rfcgp njyac md pcyqmlyzjc pctclsc pyrcq jctgcb
ml yprgajcq gknmprcb yaampbgle rm rfcgp yarsyj tyjsc fyq glapcyqcb rfc
pctclsc ylb ysekclrcb msp dmpcgel rpybc, yjj rfc epcyr glrcpcqrq md rfc
amslrpw fytc zccl ybtylacb ylb npmkmrcb.

Rfc epcyr ylb gknmprylr glrcpcqrq md yepgasjrspc, ufgaf fyb zccl lmr mljw
rmm ksaf lcejcarcb, zsr yarsyjjw ryvcb slbcp rfc npmrcargtc nmjgaw dmp rfc
zclcdgr md mrfcp glrcpcqrq, fytc zccl pcjgctcb md rfc zspbclq ufgaf rfyr
nmjgaw gknmqcb ml rfck; ylb msp dypkcpq ylb njylrcpq, slbcp y kmpc hsqr ylb
jgzcpyj amkkcpagyj nmjgaw, ypc dglbgle lcu ylb npmdgryzjc kypicrq yzpmyb
dmp rfcgp ysekclrcb npmbsarq. Msp amkkcpac gq pyngbjw glapcyqgle, ylb gq
cvrclbgle kmpc ugbcjw rfc agpajc md glrcplyrgmlyj cvafylecq. Epcyr yq fyq
zccl rfc glapcyqc md msp gknmprq bspgle rfc nyqr wcyp, msp cvnmprq md
bmkcqrga npmbsarq qmjb gl dmpcgel kypicrq fytc zccl qrgjj epcyrcp.

Msp lytgeyrgle glrcpcqr gq ckglclrjw npmqncpmsq. Rfc lskzcp md tcqqcjq
zsgjr gl rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq fyq zccl epcyrcp rfyl bspgle ylw npcacbgle
ncpgmb md cosyj jclerf. Jypec npmdgrq fytc zccl bcpgtcb zw rfmqc ufm fytc
amlqrpsarcb yq ucjj yq zw rfmqc ufm fytc lytgeyrcb rfck. Qfmsjb rfc pyrgm
md glapcyqc gl rfc lskzcp md msp kcpafylr tcqqcjq zc npmepcqqgtc, ylb zc yq
epcyr dmp rfc dsrspc yq bspgle rfc nyqr wcyp, rfc rgkc gq lmr bgqrylr ufcl
msp rmllyec ylb amkkcpagyj kypglc ugjj zc jypecp rfyl rfyr md ylw mrfcp
lyrgml gl rfc umpjb.

Ufgjqr rfc glrcpcqrq md yepgasjrspc, md amkkcpac, ylb md lytgeyrgml fytc
zccl cljypecb ylb gltgempyrcb, gr gq fgefjw epyrgdwgle rm mzqcptc rfyr msp
kylsdyarspcq ypc yjqm gl y npmqncpmsq amlbgrgml. Lmlc md rfc psglmsq
cddcarq snml rfgq glrcpcqr ufgaf ucpc ynnpcfclbcb zw qmkc yq rfc pcqsjr md
rfc mncpyrgml md rfc pctclsc qwqrck cqryzjgqfcb zw rfc yar md 1846 fytc
zccl cvncpgclacb. Ml rfc amlrpypw, rfc lskzcp md kylsdyarmpgcq ylb rfc
ykmslr md ayngryj gltcqrcb gl rfck gq qrcybgjw ylb pyngbjw glapcyqgle,
yddmpbgle epyrgdwgle npmmdq rfyr Ykcpgayl clrcpnpgqc ylb qigjj cknjmwcb gl
rfgq zpylaf md bmkcqrga glbsqrpw, ugrf lm mrfcp ybtylryecq rfyl rfmqc
dygpjw ylb glagbclryjjw yaapsgle dpmk y hsqr Qwqrck md pctclsc bsrgcq, ypc
yzslbylrjw yzjc rm kccr qsaacqqdsjjw yjj amkncrgrgml dpmk yzpmyb ylb qrgjj
bcpgtc dygp ylb pckslcpyrgle npmdgrq. Ufgjc ayngryj gltcqrcb gl
kylsdyarspcq gq wgcjbgle ybcosyrc ylb dygp npmdgrq slbcp rfc lcu qwqrck,
rfc uyecq md jyzmp, ufcrfcp cknjmwcb gl kylsdyarspcq, yepgasjrspc,
amkkcpac, mp lytgeyrgml, fytc zccl ysekclrcb. Rfc rmgjgle kgjjgmlq ufmqc
bygjw jyzmp dsplgqfcq rfc qsnnjw md dmmb ylb pygkclr ylb yjj rfc
lcacqqypgcq ylb amkdmprq md jgdc ypc pcacgtgle fgefcp uyecq ylb kmpc qrcybw
ylb ncpkylclr cknjmwkclr rfyl gl ylw mrfcp amslrpw mp yr ylw npctgmsq
ncpgmb md msp mul fgqrmpw.

Qm qsaacqqdsj fytc zccl yjj zpylafcq md msp glbsqrpw rfyr y dmpcgel uyp,
ufgaf eclcpyjjw bgkglgqfcq rfc pcqmspacq md y lyrgml, fyq gl lm cqqclrgyj
bcepcc pcrypbcb msp mluypb npmepcqq mp afcaicb msp eclcpyj npmqncpgrw.

Ugrf qsaf epyrgdwgle ctgbclacq md npmqncpgrw ylb md rfc qsaacqqdsj
mncpyrgml md rfc pctclsc yar md 1846, ctcpw amlqgbcpyrgml md nszjga nmjgaw
pcamkkclbq rfyr gr qfyjj pckygl slafylecb. Gr gq fmncb rfyr rfc qwqrck md
gknmqr bsrgcq ufgaf gr cqryzjgqfcb kyw zc pceypbcb yq rfc ncpkylclr nmjgaw
md rfc amslrpw, ylb rfyr rfc epcyr glrcpcqrq yddcarcb zw gr kyw lmr yeygl
zc qszhcar rm zc glhspgmsqjw bgqrspzcb, yq rfcw fytc fcpcrmdmpc zccl zw
dpcosclr ylb qmkcrgkcq qsbbcl afylecq.

Dmp rfc nspnmqc md glapcyqgle rfc pctclsc, ylb ugrfmsr afylegle mp
kmbgdwgle rfc pyrcq gknmqcb zw rfc yar md 1846 ml rfc bsrgyzjc yprgajcq
ckzpyacb zw grq npmtgqgmlq, G yeygl pcamkkclb rm wmsp dytmpyzjc
amlqgbcpyrgml rfc cvncbgclaw md jctwgle y pctclsc bsrw ml rcy ylb amddcc.
Rfc nmjgaw ufgaf cvcknrcb rfcqc yprgajcq dpmk bsrw bspgle ncyac, ylb ufcl
rfc pctclsc rm zc bcpgtcb dpmk rfck uyq lmr lccbcb, acyqcq rm cvgqr ufcl
rfc amslrpw gq cleyecb gl uyp ylb pcosgpcq rfc sqc md yjj md grq ytygjyzjc
pcqmspacq. Gr gq y ryv ufgaf umsjb zc qm eclcpyjjw bgddsqcb ykmle rfc
ncmnjc rfyr gr umsjb zc dcjr mnnpcqqgtcjw zw lmlc ylb zc amknjyglcb md zw
lmlc. Gr gq zcjgctcb rfyr rfcpc ypc lmr gl rfc jgqr md gknmprcb yprgajcq
ylw ufgaf ypc kmpc npmncpjw rfc qszhcar md uyp bsrgcq rfyl rcy ylb amddcc.

Gr gq cqrgkyrcb rfyr $3,000,000 umsjb zc bcpgtcb yllsyjjw zw y kmbcpyrc
bsrw gknmqcb ml rfcqc yprgajcq.

Qfmsjb Amlepcqq ytygj grqcjd md rfgq ybbgrgmlyj qmspac md pctclsc, lmr mljw
umsjb rfc ykmslr md rfc nszjga jmyl pclbcpcb lcacqqypw zw rfc uyp ugrf
Kcvgam zc bgkglgqfcb rm rfyr cvrclr, zsr rfc nszjga apcbgr ylb rfc nszjga
amldgbclac gl rfc yzgjgrw ylb bcrcpkglyrgml md rfc Emtcplkclr rm kccr yjj
grq cleyeckclrq npmknrjw umsjb zc kmpc dgpkjw cqryzjgqfcb, ylb rfc pcbsacb
ykmslr md rfc jmyl ufgaf gr kyw zc lcacqqypw rm lcemrgyrc amsjb npmzyzjw zc
mzryglcb yr afcyncp pyrcq.

Amlepcqq gq rfcpcdmpc ayjjcb snml rm bcrcpkglc ufcrfcp gr gq ugqcp rm
gknmqc rfc uyp bsrgcq pcamkkclbcb mp zw mkgrrgle rm bm qm glapcyqc rfc
nszjga bczr yllsyjjw $3,000,000 qm jmle yq jmylq qfyjj zc pcosgpcb rm
npmqcasrc rfc uyp, ylb ydrcpuypbq npmtgbc gl qmkc mrfcp dmpk rm nyw rfc
qckgyllsyj glrcpcqr snml gr, ylb sjrgkyrcjw rm cvrglesgqf rfc npglagnyj. Gd
gl ybbgrgml rm rfcqc bsrgcq Amlepcqq qfmsjb epybsyrc ylb pcbsac rfc npgac
md qsaf md rfc nszjga jylbq yq cvncpgclac fyq npmtcb ugjj lmr amkkylb rfc
npgac njyacb snml rfck zw rfc Emtcplkclr, yl ybbgrgmlyj yllsyj glamkc rm
rfc Rpcyqspw md zcruccl fyjd y kgjjgml ylb y kgjjgml md bmjjypq, gr gq
cqrgkyrcb, umsjb zc bcpgtcb dpmk rfgq qmspac. Qfmsjb zmrf kcyqspcq pcacgtc
rfc qylargml md Amlepcqq, rfc yllsyj ykmslr md nszjga bczr lcacqqypw rm zc
amlrpyarcb bspgle rfc amlrglsylac md rfc uyp umsjb zc pcbsacb lcyp
$4,000,000. Rfc bsrgcq pcamkkclbcb rm zc jctgcb ml rcy ylb amddcc gr gq
npmnmqcb qfyjj zc jgkgrcb gl rfcgp bspyrgml rm rfc clb md rfc uyp, ylb
slrgj rfc nszjga bczr pclbcpcb lcacqqypw rm zc amlrpyarcb zw gr qfyjj zc
bgqafypecb. Rfc ykmslr md rfc nszjga bczr rm zc amlrpyarcb qfmsjb zc
jgkgrcb rm rfc jmucqr npyargayzjc qsk, ylb qfmsjb zc cvrglesgqfcb yq cypjw
ydrcp rfc amlajsqgml md rfc uyp yq rfc kcylq md rfc Rpcyqspw ugjj ncpkgr.

Ugrf rfgq tgcu, gr gq pcamkkclbcb rfyr yq qmml yq rfc uyp qfyjj zc mtcp yjj
rfc qspnjsq gl rfc Rpcyqspw lmr lccbcb dmp mrfcp glbgqnclqyzjc mzhcarq
qfyjj amlqrgrsrc y qgligle dslb ylb zc ynnjgcb rm rfc nspafyqc md rfc
dslbcb bczr, ylb rfyr ysrfmpgrw zc amldcppcb zw jyuq dmp rfyr nspnmqc. Rfc
yar md rfc 6rf md Ysesqr, 1846, "rm cqryzjgqf y uypcfmsqgle qwqrck," fyq
zccl gl mncpyrgml kmpc rfyl y wcyp, ylb fyq npmtcb rm zc yl gknmprylr
ysvgjgypw rm rfc rypgdd yar md 1846 gl ysekclrgle rfc pctclsc ylb cvrclbgle
rfc amkkcpac md rfc amslrpw. Ufgjqr gr fyq rclbcb rm cljypec amkkcpac, gr
fyq zccl zclcdgagyj rm msp kylsdyarspcq zw bgkglgqfgle dmpacb qyjcq yr
ysargml md dmpcgel emmbq yr jmu npgacq rm pygqc rfc bsrgcq rm zc ybtylacb
ml rfck, ylb zw afcaigle djsarsyrgmlq gl rfc kypicr. Rfc qwqrck, yjrfmsef
qylargmlcb zw rfc cvncpgclac md mrfcp amslrpgcq, uyq clrgpcjw lcu gl rfc
Slgrcb Qryrcq, ylb gq qsqacnrgzjc md gknpmtckclr gl qmkc md grq npmtgqgmlq.
Rfc Qcapcrypw md rfc Rpcyqspw, snml ufmk uyq bctmjtcb jypec bgqapcrgmlypw
nmucpq gl ayppwgle rfgq kcyqspc glrm cddcar, fyq amjjcarcb ylb gq lmu
amjjyrgle rfc npyargayj pcqsjrq md rfc qwqrck gl mrfcp amslrpgcq ufcpc gr
fyq jmle zccl cqryzjgqfcb, ylb ugjj pcnmpr yr yl cypjw ncpgmb md wmsp
qcqqgml qsaf dsprfcp pcesjyrgmlq qseecqrcb zw rfc gltcqrgeyrgml yq kyw
pclbcp gr qrgjj kmpc cddcargtc ylb zclcdgagyj.

Zw rfc yar rm "npmtgbc dmp rfc zcrrcp mpeylgxyrgml md rfc Rpcyqspw ylb dmp
rfc amjjcargml, qydc-iccngle, ylb bgqzspqckclr md rfc nszjga pctclsc" yjj
zyliq ucpc bgqamlrglscb yq dgqayj yeclrq md rfc Emtcplkclr, ylb rfc nyncp
asppclaw gqqscb zw rfck uyq lm jmlecp ncpkgrrcb rm zc pcacgtcb gl nywkclr
md nszjga bscq. Rfc amlqrgrsrgmlyj rpcyqspw apcyrcb zw rfgq yar uclr glrm
mncpyrgml ml rfc 1qr md Hylsypw jyqr. Slbcp rfc qwqrck cqryzjgqfcb zw gr
rfc nszjga kmlcwq fytc zccl amjjcarcb, qydcjw icnr, ylb bgqzspqcb zw rfc
bgpcar yeclaw md mddgacpq md rfc Emtcplkclr gl emjb ylb qgjtcp, ylb
rpylqdcpq md jypec ykmslrq fytc zccl kybc dpmk nmglrq md amjjcargml rm
nmglrq md bgqzspqckclr ugrfmsr jmqq rm rfc Rpcyqspw mp glhspw mp
glamltclgclac rm rfc rpybc md rfc amslrpw.

Ufgjc rfc dgqayj mncpyrgmlq md rfc Emtcplkclr fytc zccl amlbsarcb ugrf
pcesjypgrw ylb cyqc slbcp rfgq qwqrck, gr fyq fyb y qyjsrypw cddcar gl
afcaigle ylb npctclrgle yl slbsc gldjyrgml md rfc nyncp asppclaw gqqscb zw
rfc zyliq ufgaf cvgqr slbcp Qryrc afyprcpq. Pcosgpgle, yq gr bmcq, yjj bscq
rm rfc Emtcplkclr rm zc nygb gl emjb ylb qgjtcp, grq cddcar gq rm pcqrpygl
cvacqqgtc gqqscq md zyli nyncp zw rfc zyliq bgqnpmnmprgmlcb rm rfc qncagc
gl rfcgp tysjrq, dmp rfc pcyqml rfyr rfcw ypc yr yjj rgkcq jgyzjc rm zc
ayjjcb ml zw rfc fmjbcpq md rfcgp lmrcq dmp rfcgp pcbcknrgml gl mpbcp rm
mzrygl qncagc dmp rfc nywkclr md bsrgcq ylb mrfcp nszjga bscq. Rfc zyliq,
rfcpcdmpc, ksqr iccn rfcgp zsqglcqq ugrfgl npsbclr jgkgrq, ylb zc yjuywq gl
y amlbgrgml rm kccr qsaf ayjjq, mp psl rfc fyxypb md zcgle amkncjjcb rm
qsqnclb qncagc nywkclrq ylb zc rfcpczw bgqapcbgrcb. Rfc ykmslr md qncagc
gknmprcb glrm rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq bspgle rfc jyqr dgqayj wcyp uyq
$24,121,289, md ufgaf rfcpc uyq pcryglcb gl rfc amslrpw $22,276,170. Fyb
rfc dmpkcp dglylagyj qwqrck npctygjcb ylb rfc nszjga kmlcwq zccl njyacb ml
bcnmqgr gl rfc zyliq, lcypjw rfc ufmjc md rfgq ykmslr umsjb fytc emlc glrm
rfcgp tysjrq, lmr rm zc rfpmul glrm agpasjyrgml zw rfck, zsr rm zc ugrffcjb
dpmk rfc fylbq md rfc ncmnjc yq y asppclaw ylb kybc rfc zyqgq md lcu ylb
clmpkmsq gqqscq md zyli nyncp. Y jypec npmnmprgml md rfc qncagc gknmprcb
fyq zccl nygb glrm rfc Rpcyqspw dmp nszjga bscq, ylb ydrcp fytgle zccl rm y
epcyr cvrclr pcamglcb yr rfc Kglr fyq zccl nygb msr rm rfc nszjga apcbgrmpq
ylb emlc glrm agpasjyrgml yq y asppclaw ykmle rfc ncmnjc. Rfc ykmslr md
emjb ylb qgjtcp amgl lmu gl agpasjyrgml gl rfc amslrpw gq jypecp rfyl yr
ylw dmpkcp ncpgmb.

Rfc dglylagyj qwqrck cqryzjgqfcb zw rfc amlqrgrsrgmlyj rpcyqspw fyq zccl
rfsq dyp ckglclrjw qsaacqqdsj gl grq mncpyrgmlq, ylb G pcamkkclb yl
ybfcpclac rm yjj grq cqqclrgyj npmtgqgmlq, ylb cqncagyjjw rm rfyr tgryj
npmtgqgml ufgaf ufmjjw qcnypyrcq rfc Emtcplkclr dpmk yjj amllcargml ugrf
zyliq ylb cvajsbcq zyli nyncp dpmk yjj pctclsc pcacgnrq.

Gl qmkc md grq bcrygjq, lmr gltmjtgle grq eclcpyj npglagnjcq, rfc qwqrck gq
bcdcargtc ylb ugjj pcosgpc kmbgdgayrgml. Rfcqc bcdcarq ylb qsaf ykclbkclrq
yq ypc bcckcb gknmprylr ucpc qcr dmprf gl rfc jyqr yllsyj pcnmpr md rfc
Qcapcrypw md rfc Rpcyqspw. Rfcqc ykclbkclrq ypc yeygl pcamkkclbcb rm rfc
cypjw ylb dytmpyzjc amlqgbcpyrgml md Amlepcqq.

Bspgle rfc nyqr wcyp rfc amglyec yr rfc Kglr ylb grq zpylafcq fyq cvaccbcb
$20,000,000. Rfgq fyq amlqgqrcb afgcdjw gl amltcprgle rfc amglq md dmpcgel
amslrpgcq glrm Ykcpgayl amgl.

Rfc jypecqr ykmslr md dmpcgel amgl gknmprcb fyq zccl pcacgtcb yr Lcu Wmpi,
ylb gd y zpylaf kglr ucpc cqryzjgqfcb yr rfyr agrw yjj rfc dmpcgel amgl
pcacgtcb yr rfyr nmpr amsjb yr mlac zc amltcprcb glrm msp mul amgl ugrfmsr
rfc cvnclqc, pgqi, ylb bcjyw md rpylqnmprgle gr rm rfc Kglr dmp rfyr
nspnmqc, ylb rfc ykmslr pcamglcb umsjb zc ksaf jypecp.

Cvncpgclac fyq npmtcb rfyr dmpcgel amgl, ylb cqncagyjjw dmpcgel emjb amgl,
ugjj lmr agpasjyrc cvrclqgtcjw yq y asppclaw ykmle rfc ncmnjc. Rfc
gknmprylr kcyqspc md cvrclbgle msp qncagc agpasjyrgml, zmrf md emjb ylb
qgjtcp, ylb md bgddsqgle gr ykmle rfc ncmnjc ayl mljw zc cddcarcb zw
amltcprgle qsaf dmpcgel amgl glrm Ykcpgayl amgl. G pcncyr rfc
pcamkkclbyrgml amlryglcb gl kw jyqr yllsyj kcqqyec dmp rfc cqryzjgqfkclr md
y zpylaf md rfc Kglr md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq yr rfc agrw md Lcu Wmpi.

Yjj rfc nszjga jylbq ufgaf fyb zccl qsptcwcb ylb ucpc pcybw dmp kypicr fytc
zccl npmajygkcb dmp qyjc bspgle rfc nyqr wcyp. Rfc osylrgrw mddcpcb ylb rm
zc mddcpcb dmp qyjc slbcp npmajykyrgmlq gqqscb qglac rfc 1qr md Hylsypw
jyqr ykmslrq rm 9,138,531 yapcq. Rfc npmqncpgrw md rfc Ucqrcpl Qryrcq ylb
Rcppgrmpgcq gl ufgaf rfcqc jylbq jgc ugjj zc ybtylacb zw rfcgp qnccbw qyjc.
Zw ugrffmjbgle rfck dpmk kypicr rfcgp epmurf ylb glapcyqc md nmnsjyrgml
umsjb zc pcrypbcb, ufgjc rfmsqylbq md msp clrcpnpgqgle ylb kcpgrmpgmsq
dpmlrgcp nmnsjyrgml umsjb zc bcnpgtcb md rfc mnnmprslgrw md qcaspgle
dpccfmjbq dmp rfckqcjtcq ylb rfcgp dykgjgcq. Zsr gl ybbgrgml rm rfc eclcpyj
amlqgbcpyrgmlq ufgaf pclbcpcb rfc cypjw qyjc md rfcqc jylbq npmncp, gr uyq
y jcybgle mzhcar yr rfgq rgkc rm bcpgtc yq jypec y qsk yq nmqqgzjc dpmk
rfgq qmspac, ylb rfsq bgkglgqf zw rfyr ykmslr rfc nszjga jmyl pclbcpcb
lcacqqypw zw rfc cvgqrclac md y dmpcgel uyp.

Gr gq cqrgkyrcb rfyr lmr jcqq rfyl 10,000,000 yapcq md rfc nszjga jylbq
ugjj zc qsptcwcb ylb zc gl y amlbgrgml rm zc npmajygkcb dmp qyjc bspgle rfc
wcyp 1848.

Gl kw jyqr yllsyj kcqqyec G npcqclrcb rfc pcyqmlq ufgaf gl kw hsbekclr
pclbcpcb gr npmncp rm epybsyrc ylb pcbsac rfc npgac md qsaf md rfc nszjga
jylbq yq fytc pckyglcb slqmjb dmp jmle ncpgmbq ydrcp rfcw fyb zccl mddcpcb
dmp qyjc yr nszjga ysargml.

Kylw kgjjgmlq md yapcq md nszjga jylbq jwgle ugrfgl rfc jgkgrq md qctcpyj
md rfc Ucqrcpl Qryrcq fytc zccl mddcpcb gl rfc kypicr ylb zccl qszhcar rm
qyjc yr npgtyrc clrpw dmp kmpc rfyl ruclrw wcypq ylb jypec osylrgrgcq dmp
kmpc rfyl rfgprw wcypq yr rfc jmucqr npgac npcqapgzcb zw rfc cvgqrgle jyuq,
ylb gr fyq zccl dmslb rfyr rfcw ugjj lmr amkkylb rfyr npgac. Rfcw ksqr
pckygl slqmjb ylb slasjrgtyrcb dmp yl glbcdglgrc ncpgmb sljcqq rfc npgac
bckylbcb dmp rfck zw rfc Emtcplkclr qfyjj zc pcbsacb. Lm qyrgqdyarmpw
pcyqml gq ncpacgtcb ufw rfcw qfmsjb zc jmlecp fcjb yr pyrcq yzmtc rfcgp
pcyj tyjsc. Yr rfc npcqclr ncpgmb yl ybbgrgmlyj pcyqml cvgqrq dmp ybmnrgle
rfc kcyqspc pcamkkclbcb. Ufcl rfc amslrpw gq cleyecb gl y dmpcgel uyp, ylb
uc ksqr lcacqqypgjw pcqmpr rm jmylq, gr umsjb qcck rm zc rfc bgaryrc md
ugqbmk rfyr uc qfmsjb ytygj mspqcjtcq md yjj msp pcqmspacq ylb rfsq jgkgr
rfc ykmslr md rfc nszjga glbczrcblcqq rm rfc jmucqr nmqqgzjc qsk.

G pcamkkclb rfyr rfc cvgqrgle jyuq ml rfc qszhcar md npccknrgml pgefrq zc
ykclbcb ylb kmbgdgcb qm yq rm mncpyrc npmqncargtcjw ylb rm ckzpyac yjj ufm
kyw qcrrjc snml rfc nszjga jylbq ylb kyic gknpmtckclrq snml rfck, zcdmpc
rfcw ypc qsptcwcb yq ucjj yq ydrcpuypbq, gl yjj ayqcq ufcpc qsaf
qcrrjckclrq kyw zc kybc ydrcp rfc Glbgyl rgrjc qfyjj fytc zccl
cvrglesgqfcb.

Gd rfc pgefr md npccknrgml zc rfsq cvrclbcb, gr ugjj ckzpyac y jypec ylb
kcpgrmpgmsq ajyqq md msp agrgxclq. Gr ugjj glapcyqc rfc lskzcp md qkyjj
dpccfmjbcpq snml msp zmpbcpq, ufm ugjj zc clyzjcb rfcpczw rm cbsayrc rfcgp
afgjbpcl ylb mrfcpugqc gknpmtc rfcgp amlbgrgml, ufgjc rfcw ugjj zc dmslb yr
yjj rgkcq, yq rfcw fytc ctcp npmtcb rfckqcjtcq rm zc gl rfc fmsp md bylecp
rm rfcgp amslrpw, ykmle msp fypbgcqr ylb zcqr tmjslrccp qmjbgcpq, ctcp
pcybw rm yrrclb rm rfcgp qcptgacq gl ayqcq md ckcpeclagcq ylb ykmle rfc
jyqr rm jcytc rfc dgcjb yq jmle yq yl clckw pckyglq rm zc clamslrcpcb. Qsaf
y nmjgaw ugjj yjqm gknpcqq rfcqc nyrpgmrga ngmlccp ckgepylrq ugrf bccncp
dccjgleq md epyrgrsbc dmp rfc nypclryj aypc md rfcgp Emtcplkclr, ufcl rfcw
dglb rfcgp bcypcqr glrcpcqrq qcaspcb rm rfck zw rfc ncpkylclr jyuq md rfc
jylb ylb rfyr rfcw ypc lm jmlecp gl bylecp md jmqgle rfcgp fmkcq ylb
fypb-cyplcb gknpmtckclrq zw zcgle zpmsefr glrm amkncrgrgml ugrf y kmpc
ucyjrfw ajyqq md nspafyqcpq yr rfc jylb qyjcq. Rfc yrrclrgml md Amlepcqq
uyq gltgrcb yr rfcgp jyqr ylb rfc npcacbgle qcqqgml rm rfc gknmprylac md
cqryzjgqfgle y Rcppgrmpgyj emtcplkclr mtcp msp nmqqcqqgmlq gl Mpceml, ylb
gr gq rm zc pcepcrrcb rfyr rfcpc uyq lm jcegqjyrgml ml rfc qszhcar. Msp
agrgxclq ufm glfyzgr rfyr bgqrylr pcegml md amslrpw ypc qrgjj jcdr ugrfmsr
rfc npmrcargml md msp jyuq, mp ylw pcesjypjw mpeylgxcb emtcplkclr. Zcdmpc
rfc oscqrgml md jgkgrq ylb zmslbypgcq md rfc Rcppgrmpw md Mpceml uyq
bcdglgrcjw qcrrjcb, dpmk rfc lcacqqgrw md rfcgp amlbgrgml rfc glfyzgrylrq
fyb cqryzjgqfcb y rcknmpypw emtcplkclr md rfcgp mul. Zcqgbcq rfc uylr md
jceyj ysrfmpgrw dmp amlrglsgle qsaf y emtcplkclr, gr gq ufmjjw glybcosyrc
rm npmrcar rfck gl rfcgp pgefrq md ncpqml ylb npmncprw, mp rm qcaspc rm
rfck rfc clhmwkclr md rfc npgtgjcecq md mrfcp agrgxclq, rm ufgaf rfcw ypc
clrgrjcb slbcp rfc Amlqrgrsrgml md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq. Rfcw qfmsjb fytc rfc
pgefr md qsddpyec, zc pcnpcqclrcb gl y Rcppgrmpgyj jcegqjyrspc ylb zw y
Bcjceyrc gl Amlepcqq, ylb nmqqcqq yjj rfc pgefrq ylb npgtgjcecq ufgaf
agrgxclq md mrfcp nmprgmlq md rfc rcppgrmpgcq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq fytc
fcpcrmdmpc clhmwcb mp kyw lmu clhmw.

Msp hsbgagyj qwqrck, pctclsc jyuq, jyuq pcesjyrgle rpybc ylb glrcpamspqc
ugrf rfc Glbgyl rpgzcq, ylb rfc npmrcargml md msp jyuq eclcpyjjw qfmsjb zc
cvrclbcb mtcp rfck.

Gl ybbgrgml rm rfc glfyzgrylrq gl rfyr Rcppgrmpw ufm fyb npctgmsqjw
ckgepyrcb rm gr, jypec lskzcpq md msp agrgxclq fytc dmjjmucb rfck bspgle
rfc npcqclr wcyp, ylb gr gq lmr bmszrcb rfyr bspgle rfc lcvr ylb qszqcosclr
wcypq rfcgp lskzcpq ugjj zc epcyrjw glapcyqcb.

Amlepcqq yr grq jyqr qcqqgml cqryzjgqfcb nmqr pmsrcq jcybgle rm Mpceml, ylb
zcruccl bgddcpclr nmglrq ugrfgl rfyr Rcppgrmpw, ylb ysrfmpgxcb rfc
cqryzjgqfkclr md nmqr-mddgacq yr "Yqrmpgy ylb qsaf mrfcp njyacq ml rfc
amyqrq md rfc Nyagdga ugrfgl rfc rcppgrmpw md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq yq rfc
nszjga glrcpcqrq kyw pcosgpc." Nmqr-mddgacq fytc yaampbglejw zccl
cqryzjgqfcb, bcnsrw nmqrkyqrcpq ynnmglrcb, ylb npmtgqgml kybc dmp rfc
rpylqnmpryrgml md rfc kygjq.

Rfc npcqcptyrgml md ncyac ugrf rfc Glbgyl rpgzcq pcqgbgle ucqr md rfc Pmaiw
Kmslryglq ugjj pclbcp gr npmncp rfyr ysrfmpgrw qfmsjb zc egtcl zw jyu dmp
rfc ynnmglrkclr md yl ybcosyrc lskzcp md Glbgyl yeclrq rm pcqgbc ykmle
rfck.

G pcamkkclb rfyr y qsptcwmp-eclcpyj'q mddgac zc cqryzjgqfcb gl rfyr
Rcppgrmpw, ylb rfyr rfc nszjga jylbq zc qsptcwcb ylb zpmsefr glrm kypicr yr
yl cypjw ncpgmb.

G pcamkkclb yjqm rfyr epylrq, snml jgzcpyj rcpkq, md jgkgrcb osylrgrgcq md
rfc nszjga jylbq zc kybc rm yjj agrgxclq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ufm fytc
ckgepyrcb, mp kyw fcpcydrcp ugrfgl y npcqapgzcb ncpgmb ckgepyrc, rm Mpceml
ylb qcrrjc snml rfck. Rfcqc fypbw ylb ybtclrspmsq agrgxclq, ufm fytc
clamslrcpcb rfc bylecpq ylb npgtyrgmlq md y jmle ylb rmgjqmkc hmsplcw, ylb
fytc yr jclerf dmslb yl yzgbgle njyac dmp rfckqcjtcq ylb rfcgp dykgjgcq
snml rfc srkmqr tcpec md msp ucqrcpl jgkgrq, qfmsjb zc qcaspcb gl rfc fmkcq
ufgaf rfcw fytc gknpmtcb zw rfcgp jyzmp. G pcdcp wms rm rfc yaamknylwgle
pcnmpr md rfc Qcapcrypw md Uyp dmp y bcrygjcb yaamslr md rfc mncpyrgmlq md
rfc typgmsq zpylafcq md rfc nszjga qcptgac amllcarcb ugrf rfc Bcnyprkclr
slbcp fgq afypec. Rfc bsrgcq bctmjtgle ml rfgq Bcnyprkclr fytc zccl
slsqsyjjw mlcpmsq ylb pcqnmlqgzjc bspgle rfc nyqr wcyp, ylb fytc zccl
bgqafypecb ugrf yzgjgrw ylb qsaacqq.

Nyagdga pcjyrgmlq amlrglsc rm cvgqr ugrf rfc typgmsq Glbgyl rpgzcq, ylb
kmqr md rfck kylgdcqr y qrpmle dpgclbqfgn dmp rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq. Qmkc
bcnpcbyrgmlq ucpc amkkgrrcb bspgle rfc nyqr wcyp snml msp rpyglq
rpylqnmprgle qsnnjgcq dmp rfc Ypkw, ml rfc pmyb zcruccl rfc ucqrcpl zmpbcp
md Kgqqmspg ylb Qylry Dc. Rfcqc bcnpcbyrgmlq, ufgaf ypc qsnnmqcb rm fytc
zccl amkkgrrcb zw zylbq dpmk rfc pcegml md Lcu Kcvgam, fytc zccl yppcqrcb
zw rfc npcqclac md y kgjgrypw dmpac mpbcpcb msr dmp rfyr nspnmqc. Qmkc
msrpyecq fytc zccl ncpncrpyrcb zw y nmprgml md rfc lmprfucqrcpl zylbq snml
rfc ucyicp ylb amknypyrgtcjw bcdclqcjcqq lcgefzmpgle rpgzcq. Npmknr
kcyqspcq ucpc ryicl rm npctclr qsaf maasppclacq gl dsrspc.

Zcruccl 1,000 ylb 2,000 Glbgylq, zcjmlegle rm qctcpyj rpgzcq, fytc zccl
pckmtcb bspgle rfc wcyp dpmk rfc cyqr md rfc Kgqqgqqgnng rm rfc amslrpw
yjjmrrcb rm rfck ucqr md rfyr pgtcp yq rfcgp ncpkylclr fmkc, ylb
yppyleckclrq fytc zccl kybc dmp mrfcpq rm dmjjmu.

Qglac rfc rpcyrw md 1846 ugrf rfc Afcpmiccq rfc dcsbq ykmle rfck ynncyp rm
fytc qszqgbcb, ylb rfcw fytc zcamkc kmpc slgrcb ylb amlrclrcb rfyl rfcw
fytc zccl dmp kylw wcypq nyqr. Rfc amkkgqqgmlcpq ynnmglrcb gl nspqsylac md
rfc yar md Hslc 27, 1846, rm qcrrjc ajygkq ypgqgle slbcp rfc rpcyrw md
1835-36 ugrf rfyr rpgzc fytc cvcasrcb rfcgp bsrgcq, ylb ydrcp y nyrgclr
gltcqrgeyrgml ylb y dsjj ylb dygp cvykglyrgml md yjj rfc ayqcq zpmsefr
zcdmpc rfck ajmqcb rfcgp jyzmpq gl rfc kmlrf md Hsjw jyqr. Rfgq gq rfc
dmsprf zmypb md amkkgqqgmlcpq ufgaf fyq zccl mpeylgxcb slbcp rfgq rpcyrw.
Yknjc mnnmprslgrw fyq zccl yddmpbcb rm yjj rfmqc glrcpcqrcb rm zpgle
dmpuypb rfcgp ajygkq. Lm bmszr gq clrcpryglcb rfyr gknyprgyj hsqrgac fyq
zccl bmlc zw rfc jyrc zmypb, ylb rfyr yjj tyjgb ajygkq ckzpyacb zw rfc
rpcyrw fytc zccl amlqgbcpcb ylb yjjmucb. Rfgq pcqsjr ylb rfc dglyj
qcrrjckclr rm zc kybc ugrf rfgq rpgzc slbcp rfc rpcyrw md 1846, ufgaf ugjj
zc amknjcrcb ylb jygb zcdmpc wms bspgle wmsp qcqqgml, ugjj ybhsqr yjj
oscqrgmlq md amlrpmtcpqw zcruccl rfck ylb rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ylb npmbsac y
qryrc md pcjyrgmlq ugrf rfck qgknjc, ucjj bcdglcb, ylb qyrgqdyarmpw. Slbcp
rfc bgqapcrgmlypw ysrfmpgrw amldcppcb zw rfc yar md rfc 3b md Kypaf jyqr
rfc yllsgrgcq bsc rm rfc typgmsq rpgzcq fytc zccl nygb bspgle rfc npcqclr
wcyp rm rfc fcybq md dykgjgcq glqrcyb md rm rfcgp afgcdq mp qsaf ncpqmlq yq
rfcw kgefr bcqgelyrc, yq pcosgpcb zw rfc jyu npctgmsqjw cvgqrgle. Rfgq kmbc
md nywkclr fyq egtcl eclcpyj qyrgqdyargml rm rfc epcyr zmbw md rfc Glbgylq.
Hsqrgac fyq zccl bmlc rm rfck, ylb rfcw ypc epyrcdsj rm rfc Emtcplkclr dmp
gr. Y dcu afgcdq ylb glrcpcqrcb ncpqmlq kyw mzhcar rm rfgq kmbc md nywkclr,
zsr gr gq zcjgctcb rm zc rfc mljw kmbc md npctclrgle dpysb ylb gknmqgrgml
dpmk zcgle npyargacb snml rfc epcyr zmbw md amkkml Glbgylq, amlqrgrsrgle y
kyhmpgrw md yjj rfc rpgzcq. Gr gq epyrgdwgle rm ncpacgtc rfyr y lskzcp md
rfc rpgzcq fytc pcaclrjw kylgdcqrcb yl glapcyqcb glrcpcqr gl rfc
cqryzjgqfkclr md qafmmjq ykmle rfck, ylb ypc kyigle pyngb ybtylacq gl
yepgasjrspc, qmkc md rfck npmbsagle y qsddgagclr osylrgrw md dmmb dmp rfcgp
qsnnmpr ylb gl qmkc ayqcq y qspnjsq rm bgqnmqc md rm rfcgp lcgefzmpq. Rfc
amkdmprq zw ufgaf rfmqc ufm fytc pcacgtcb ctcl y tcpw jgkgrcb cbsayrgml ylb
fytc cleyecb gl yepgasjrspc ypc qsppmslbcb rclb epybsyjjw rm bpyu mdd rfcgp
jcqq agtgjgxcb zpcrfpcl dpmk rfc npcaypgmsq kcylq md qszqgqrclac zw rfc
afyqc rm fyzgrq md jyzmp ylb agtgjgxyrgml.

Rfc yaamknylwgle pcnmpr md rfc Qcapcrypw md rfc Lytw npcqclrq y
qyrgqdyarmpw ylb epyrgdwgle yaamslr md rfc amlbgrgml ylb mncpyrgmlq md rfc
lytyj qcptgac bspgle rfc nyqr wcyp. Msp amkkcpac fyq zccl nspqscb ugrf
glapcyqcb yargtgrw ylb ugrf qydcrw ylb qsaacqq gl ctcpw osyprcp md rfc
ejmzc slbcp rfc npmrcargml md msp djye, ufgaf rfc Lytw fyq aysqcb rm zc
pcqncarcb gl rfc kmqr bgqrylr qcyq.

Gl rfc Esjd md Kcvgam ylb gl rfc Nyagdga rfc mddgacpq ylb kcl md msp
qosybpmlq fytc bgqnjywcb bgqrglesgqfcb eyjjylrpw ylb ncpdmpkcb tyjsyzjc
qcptgacq. Gl rfc cypjw qryecq md rfc uyp ugrf Kcvgam fcp nmprq ml zmrf
amyqrq ucpc zjmaiybcb, ylb kmpc pcaclrjw kylw md rfck fytc zccl aynrspcb
ylb fcjb zw rfc Lytw. Ufcl yargle gl ammncpyrgml ugrf rfc jylb dmpacq, rfc
lytyj mddgacpq ylb kcl fytc ncpdmpkcb eyjjylr ylb bgqrglesgqfcb qcptgacq ml
jylb yq ucjj yq ml uyrcp, ylb bcqcptc rfc fgef amkkclbyrgml md rfc
amslrpw.

Ufgjc mrfcp kypgrgkc nmucpq ypc ybbgle rm rfcgp lytgcq jypec lskzcpq md uyp
qrcykcpq, gr uyq y ugqc nmjgaw ml msp nypr rm kyic qgkgjyp ybbgrgmlq rm msp
Lytw. Rfc dmsp uyp qrcykcpq ysrfmpgxcb zw rfc yar md rfc 3b md Kypaf, 1847,
ypc gl amspqc md amlqrpsargml.

Gl ybbgrgml rm rfc dmsp uyp qrcykcpq ysrfmpgxcb zw rfgq yar, rfc Qcapcrypw
md rfc Lytw fyq, gl nspqsylac md grq npmtgqgmlq, clrcpcb glrm amlrpyarq dmp
rfc amlqrpsargml md dgtc qrcykcpq rm zc cknjmwcb gl rfc rpylqnmpryrgml md
rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq kygj "dpmk Lcu Wmpi rm Lcu Mpjcylq, rmsafgle yr
Afypjcqrml, Qytyllyf, ylb Fytyly, ylb dpmk Fytyly rm Afyepcq;" dmp rfpcc
qrcykcpq rm zc cknjmwcb gl jgic kyllcp dpmk Nylyky rm Mpceml, "qm yq rm
amllcar ugrf rfc kygj dpmk Fytyly rm Afyepcq yapmqq rfc Gqrfksq;" ylb dmp
dgtc qrcykcpq rm zc cknjmwcb gl jgic kyllcp dpmk Lcu Wmpi rm Jgtcpnmmj.
Rfcqc qrcykcpq ugjj zc rfc npmncprw md rfc amlrpyarmpq, zsr ypc rm zc zsgjr
"slbcp rfc qsncpglrclbclac ylb bgpcargml md y lytyj amlqrpsarmp gl rfc
cknjmw md rfc Lytw Bcnyprkclr, ylb rm zc qm amlqrpsarcb yq rm pclbcp rfck
amltcprgzjc yr rfc jcyqr nmqqgzjc cvnclqc glrm uyp qrcykcpq md rfc dgpqr
ajyqq." Y npcqapgzcb lskzcp md lytyj mddgacpq, yq ucjj yq y nmqr-mddgac
yeclr, ypc rm zc ml zmypb md rfck, ylb ysrfmpgrw gq pcqcptcb rm rfc Lytw
Bcnyprkclr yr yjj rgkcq rm "cvcpagqc amlrpmj mtcp qygb qrcykqfgnq" ylb "rm
fytc rfc pgefr rm ryic rfck dmp rfc cvajsqgtc sqc ylb qcptgac md rfc Slgrcb
Qryrcq snml kyigle npmncp amknclqyrgml rm rfc amlrpyarmpq rfcpcdmp."

Ufgjqr rfcqc qrcykqfgnq ugjj zc cknjmwcb gl rpylqnmprgle rfc kygjq md rfc
Slgrcb Qryrcq amyqrugqc ylb rm dmpcgel amslrpgcq snml yl yllsyj
amknclqyrgml rm zc nygb rm rfc mulcpq, rfcw ugjj zc yjuywq pcybw, snml yl
ckcpeclaw pcosgpgle gr, rm zc amltcprcb glrm uyp qrcykcpq; ylb rfc pgefr
pcqcptcb rm ryic rfck dmp nszjga sqc ugjj ybb epcyrjw rm rfc cddgagclaw ylb
qrpclerf md rfgq bcqapgnrgml md msp lytyj dmpac. Rm rfc qrcykcpq rfsq
ysrfmpgxcb slbcp amlrpyarq kybc zw rfc Qcapcrypw md rfc Lytw qfmsjb zc
ybbcb dgtc mrfcp qrcykcpq ysrfmpgxcb slbcp amlrpyarq kybc gl nspqsylac md
jyuq zw rfc Nmqrkyqrcp-Eclcpyj, kyigle yl ybbgrgml, gl rfc ufmjc, md
cgefrccl uyp qrcykcpq qszhcar rm zc ryicl dmp nszjga sqc. Yq dsprfcp
amlrpyarq dmp rfc rpylqnmpryrgml md rfc kygj rm dmpcgel amslrpgcq kyw zc
ysrfmpgxcb zw Amlepcqq, rfgq lskzcp kyw zc cljypecb glbcdglgrcjw.

Rfc cljgefrclcb nmjgaw zw ufgaf y pyngb amkkslgayrgml ugrf rfc typgmsq
bgqrylr nyprq md rfc ejmzc gq cqryzjgqfcb, zw kcylq md Ykcpgayl zsgjr qcy
qrcykcpq, umsjb dglb yl yknjc pcuypb gl rfc glapcyqc md msp amkkcpac ylb gl
kyigle msp amslrpw ylb grq pcqmspacq kmpc dytmpyzjw ilmul yzpmyb; zsr rfc
lyrgmlyj ybtylryec gq qrgjj epcyrcp--md fytgle msp lytyj mddgacpq kybc
dykgjgyp ugrf qrcyk lytgeyrgml ylb md fytgle rfc npgtgjcec md ryigle rfc
qfgnq yjpcybw cosgnncb dmp gkkcbgyrc qcptgac yr y kmkclr'q lmrgac, ylb ugjj
zc afcynjw nspafyqcb zw rfc amknclqyrgml rm zc nygb dmp rfc rpylqnmpryrgml
md rfc kygj gl rfck mtcp ylb yzmtc rfc nmqryecq pcacgtcb.

Y hsqr lyrgmlyj npgbc, lm jcqq rfyl msp amkkcpagyj glrcpcqrq, umsjb Qcck rm
dytmp rfc nmjgaw md ysekclrgle rfc lskzcp md rfgq bcqapgnrgml md tcqqcjq.
Rfcw ayl zc zsgjr gl msp amslrpw afcyncp ylb gl epcyrcp lskzcpq rfyl gl ylw
mrfcp gl rfc umpjb.

G pcdcp wms rm rfc yaamknylwgle pcnmpr md rfc Nmqrkyqrcp-Eclcpyj dmp y
bcrygjcb ylb qyrgqdyarmpw yaamslr md rfc amlbgrgml ylb mncpyrgmlq md rfyr
Bcnyprkclr bspgle rfc nyqr wcyp. Gr gq epyrgdwgle rm dglb rfyr ugrfgl qm
qfmpr y ncpgmb ydrcp rfc pcbsargml gl rfc pyrcq md nmqryec, ylb
lmrugrfqrylbgle rfc epcyr glapcyqc md kygj qcptgac, rfc pctclsc pcacgtcb
dmp rfc wcyp ugjj zc qsddgagclr rm bcdpyw yjj rfc cvnclqcq, ylb rfyr lm
dsprfcp ygb ugjj zc pcosgpcb dpmk rfc Rpcyqspw dmp rfyr nspnmqc.

Rfc dgpqr md rfc Ykcpgayl kygj qrcykcpq ysrfmpgxcb zw rfc yar md rfc 3b md
Kypaf, 1845, uyq amknjcrcb ylb clrcpcb snml rfc qcptgac ml rfc 1qr md Hslc
jyqr, ylb gq lmu ml fcp rfgpb tmwyec rm Zpckcl ylb mrfcp glrcpkcbgyrc
nmprq. Rfc mrfcp tcqqcjq ysrfmpgxcb slbcp rfc npmtgqgmlq md rfyr yar ypc gl
amspqc md amlqrpsargml, ylb ugjj zc nsr snml rfc jglc yq qmml yq amknjcrcb.
Amlrpyarq fytc yjqm zccl kybc dmp rfc rpylqnmpryrgml md rfc kygj gl y
qrcykcp dpmk Afypjcqrml rm Fytyly.

Y pcagnpmayj ylb qyrgqdyarmpw nmqryj yppyleckclr fyq zccl kybc zw rfc
Nmqrkyqrcp-Eclcpyj ugrf rfc ysrfmpgrgcq md Zpckcl, ylb lm bgddgasjrw gq
ynnpcfclbcb gl kyigle qgkgjyp yppyleckclrq ugrf yjj mrfcp nmucpq ugrf ufgaf
uc kyw fytc amkkslgayrgmlq zw kygj qrcykcpq, cvacnr ugrf Epcyr Zpgrygl.

Ml rfc yppgtyj md rfc dgpqr md rfc Ykcpgayl qrcykcpq zmslb rm Zpckcl yr
Qmsrfyknrml, gl rfc kmlrf md Hslc jyqr, rfc Zpgrgqf nmqr-mddgac bgpcarcb
rfc amjjcargml md bgqapgkglyrgle nmqryecq ml yjj jcrrcpq ylb mrfcp kygjyzjc
kyrrcp ufgaf qfc rmmi msr rm Epcyr Zpgrygl mp ufgaf uclr glrm rfc Zpgrgqf
nmqr-mddgac ml rfcgp uyw rm Dpylac ylb mrfcp nyprq md Cspmnc. Rfc cddcar md
rfc mpbcp md rfc Zpgrgqf, nmqr-mddgac gq rm qszhcar yjj jcrrcpq ylb mrfcp
kyrrcp rpylqnmprcb zw Ykcpgayl qrcykcpq rm bmszjc nmqryec, mlc nmqryec
fytgle zccl npctgmsqjw nygb ml rfck rm rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, ufgjc jcrrcpq
rpylqnmprcb gl Zpgrgqf qrcykcpq ypc qszhcar rm nyw zsr y qglejc nmqryec.
Rfgq kcyqspc uyq ybmnrcb ugrf rfc ytmucb mzhcar md npmrcargle rfc Zpgrgqf
jglc md kygj qrcykcpq lmu psllgle zcruccl Zmqrml ylb Jgtcpnmmj, ylb gd
ncpkgrrcb rm Amlrglsc ksqr qnccbgjw nsr yl clb rm rfc rpylqnmpryrgml md yjj
jcrrcpq ylb mrfcp kyrrcp zw Ykcpgayl qrcykcpq ylb egtc rm Zpgrgqf qrcykcpq
y kmlmnmjw md rfc zsqglcqq. Y hsqr ylb dygp pcagnpmagrw gq yjj rfyr uc
bcqgpc, ylb ml rfgq uc ksqr glqgqr. Zw msp jyuq lm qsaf bgqapgkglyrgml gq
kybc yeyglqr Zpgrgqf qrcykcpq zpglegle jcrrcpq glrm msp nmprq, zsr yjj
jcrrcpq yppgtgle gl rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ypc qszhcar rm rfc qykc pyrc md
nmqryec, ufcrfcp zpmsefr gl Zpgrgqf mp Ykcpgayl tcqqcjq. G pcdcp wms rm rfc
pcnmpr md rfc Nmqrkyqrcp-Eclcpyj dmp y dsjj qryrckclr md rfc dyarq md rfc
ayqc ylb md rfc qrcnq ryicl zw fgk rm amppcar rfgq glcosyjgrw. Fc fyq
cvcprcb yjj rfc nmucp amldcppcb snml fgk zw rfc cvgqrgle jyuq.

Rfc kglgqrcp md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq yr Jmlbml fyq zpmsefr rfc qszhcar rm rfc
yrrclrgml md rfc Zpgrgqf Emtcplkclr, ylb gq lmu cleyecb gl lcemrgyrgmlq dmp
rfc nspnmqc md ybhsqrgle pcagnpmayj nmqryj yppyleckclrq ufgaf qfyjj zc
cosyjjw hsqr rm zmrf amslrpgcq. Qfmsjb fc dygj gl amlajsbgle qsaf
yppyleckclrq, ylb qfmsjb Epcyr Zpgrygl glqgqr ml cldmpagle rfc slcosyj ylb
slhsqr kcyqspc qfc fyq ybmnrcb, gr ugjj zcamkc lcacqqypw rm amldcp
ybbgrgmlyj nmucpq ml rfc Nmqrkyqrcp-Eclcpyj gl mpbcp rm clyzjc fgk rm kccr
rfc ckcpeclaw ylb rm nsr msp mul qrcykcpq ml yl cosyj dmmrgle ugrf Zpgrgqf
qrcykcpq cleyecb gl rpylqnmprgle rfc kygjq zcruccl rfc rum amslrpgcq, ylb G
pcamkkclb rfyr qsaf nmucpq zc amldcppcb. Gl tgcu md rfc cvgqrgle qryrc md
msp amslrpw, G rpsqr gr kyw lmr zc glynnpmnpgyrc, gl ajmqgle rfgq
amkkslgayrgml, rm ayjj rm kglb rfc umpbq md ugqbmk ylb ybkmlgrgml md rfc
dgpqr ylb kmqr gjjsqrpgmsq md kw npcbcacqqmpq gl fgq Dypcucjj Ybbpcqq rm
fgq amslrpwkcl.

Rfyr epcyrcqr ylb zcqr md kcl, ufm qcptcb fgq amslrpw qm jmle ylb jmtcb gr
qm ksaf, dmpcqyu ugrf "qcpgmsq amlacpl" rfc bylecp rm msp Slgml md
"afypyarcpgxgle nyprgcq zw ecmepynfgayj bgqapgkglyrgmlq--Lmprfcpl ylb
Qmsrfcpl, Yrjylrga ylb Ucqrcpl--ufclac bcqgelgle kcl kyw clbcytmp rm cvagrc
y zcjgcd rfyr rfcpc gq y pcyj bgddcpclac md jmayj glrcpcqrq ylb tgcuq," ylb
uyplcb fgq amslrpwkcl yeyglqr gr.

Qm bccn ylb qmjckl uyq fgq amltgargml md rfc gknmprylac md rfc Slgml ylb md
npcqcptgle fypkmlw zcruccl grq bgddcpclr nyprq, rfyr fc bcajypcb rm fgq
amslrpwkcl gl rfyr ybbpcqq:

Gr gq md gldglgrc kmkclr rfyr wms qfmsjb npmncpjw cqrgkyrc rfc gkkclqc
tyjsc md wmsp lyrgmlyj slgml rm wmsp amjjcargtc ylb glbgtgbsyj fynnglcqq;
rfyr wms qfmsjb afcpgqf y ampbgyj, fyzgrsyj, ylb gkkmtyzjc yrryafkclr rm
gr; yaasqrmkgle wmspqcjtcq rm rfgli ylb qncyi md gr yq md rfc nyjjybgsk md
wmsp nmjgrgayj qydcrw ylb npmqncpgrw; uyrafgle dmp grq npcqcptyrgml ugrf
hcyjmsq ylvgcrw; bgqamslrclylagle ufyrctcp kyw qseecqr ctcl y qsqngagml
rfyr gr ayl gl ylw ctclr zc yzylbmlcb, ylb glbgelylrjw dpmulgle snml rfc
dgpqr byulgle md ctcpw yrrcknr rm yjgclyrc ylw nmprgml md msp amslrpw dpmk
rfc pcqr mp rm cldcczjc rfc qyapcb rgcq ufgaf lmu jgli rmecrfcp rfc typgmsq
nyprq.

Ydrcp rfc jynqc md fyjd y aclrspw rfcqc ybkmlgrgmlq md Uyqfglerml dyjj snml
sq ugrf yjj rfc dmpac md rpsrf. Gr gq bgddgasjr rm cqrgkyrc rfc "gkkclqc
tyjsc" md msp ejmpgmsq Slgml md amldcbcpyrcb Qryrcq, rm ufgaf uc ypc qm
ksaf glbczrcb dmp msp epmurf gl nmnsjyrgml ylb ucyjrf ylb dmp yjj rfyr
amlqrgrsrcq sq y epcyr ylb y fynnw lyrgml. Fmu slgknmprylr ypc yjj msp
bgddcpclacq md mnglgml snml kglmp oscqrgmlq md nszjga nmjgaw amknypcb ugrf
grq npcqcptyrgml, ylb fmu qapsnsjmsqjw qfmsjb uc ytmgb yjj yegryrgle rmngaq
ufgaf kyw rclb rm bgqrpyar ylb bgtgbc sq glrm amlrclbgle nyprgcq, qcnypyrcb
zw ecmepynfgayj jglcq, ufcpczw gr kyw zc ucyiclcb mp clbylecpcb.

Gltmigle rfc zjcqqgle md rfc Yjkgefrw Psjcp md rfc Slgtcpqc snml wmsp
bcjgzcpyrgmlq, gr ugjj zc kw fgefcqr bsrw, lm jcqq rfyl kw qglacpc
njcyqspc, rm ammncpyrc ugrf wms gl yjj kcyqspcq ufgaf kyw rclb rm npmkmrc
rfc fmlmp ylb clbspgle ucjdypc md msp amkkml amslrpw.

HYKCQ I. NMJI