Kjqqtb-Hnynejsx tk ymj Xjsfyj fsi tk ymj Mtzxj tk Wjuwjxjsyfynajx:

Ns wjxzrnsl dtzw qfgtwx ns ymj xjwanhj tk ymj ujtuqj ny nx f xzgojhy tk
htslwfyzqfynts ymfy ymjwj mfx gjjs st ujwnti ns tzw ufxy mnxytwd bmjs fqq
ymj jqjrjsyx tk sfyntsfq uwtxujwnyd mfaj gjjs xt kzqqd ijajqtuji. Xnshj
dtzw qfxy xjxxnts st fkkqnhynsl inxujsxfynts mfx anxnyji tzw htzsywd.
Ljsjwfq ltti mjfqym mfx uwjafnqji, fgzsifshj mfx hwtbsji ymj ytnq tk ymj
mzxgfsirfs, fsi qfgtw ns fqq nyx gwfshmjx nx wjhjnansl fs fruqj wjbfwi,
bmnqj jizhfynts, xhnjshj, fsi ymj fwyx fwj wfuniqd jsqfwlnsl ymj rjfsx tk
xthnfq mfuunsjxx. Ymj uwtlwjxx tk tzw htzsywd ns mjw hfwjjw tk lwjfysjxx,
sty tsqd ns ymj afxy jcyjsxnts tk tzw yjwwnytwnfq qnrnyx fsi ymj wfuni
nshwjfxj tk tzw utuzqfynts, gzy ns wjxtzwhjx fsi bjfqym fsi ns ymj mfuud
htsinynts tk tzw ujtuqj, nx bnymtzy fs jcfruqj ns ymj mnxytwd tk sfyntsx.

Fx ymj bnxitr, xywjslym, fsi gjsjknhjshj tk tzw kwjj nsxynyzyntsx fwj
zsktqiji, jajwd ifd fiix kwjxm rtynajx yt htsyjsyrjsy fsi kwjxm nshjsynajx
yt ufywntynxr.

Tzw ijatzy fsi xnshjwj fhpstbqjilrjsyx fwj izj yt ymj lwfhntzx Lnajw tk Fqq
Ltti ktw ymj szrgjwqjxx gqjxxnslx bmnhm tzw gjqtaji htzsywd jsotdx.

Ny nx f xtzwhj tk mnlm xfynxkfhynts yt pstb ymfy ymj wjqfyntsx tk ymj
Zsnyji Xyfyjx bnym fqq tymjw sfyntsx, bnym f xnslqj jchjuynts, fwj tk ymj
rtxy frnhfgqj hmfwfhyjw. Xnshjwjqd fyyfhmji yt ymj utqnhd tk ujfhj jfwqd
fituyji fsi xyjfinqd uzwxzji gd ymnx Ltajwsrjsy, N mfaj fscntzxqd ijxnwji
yt hzqynafyj fsi hmjwnxm kwnjsixmnu fsi htrrjwhj bnym jajwd ktwjnls utbjw.
Ymj xunwny fsi mfgnyx tk ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj fwj kfatwfgqj yt ymj
rfnsyjsfshj tk xzhm nsyjwsfyntsfq mfwrtsd. Ns fimjwnsl yt ymnx bnxj utqnhd,
f uwjqnrnsfwd fsi ufwfrtzsy izyd tgantzxqd htsxnxyx ns ymj uwtyjhynts tk
tzw sfyntsfq nsyjwjxyx kwtr jshwtfhmrjsy tw xfhwnknhj fsi tzw sfyntsfq
mtstw kwtr wjuwtfhm. Ymjxj rzxy gj rfnsyfnsji fy fsd mfefwi. Ymjd firny tk
st htruwtrnxj tw sjlqjhy, fsi rzxy gj xhwzuzqtzxqd fsi htsxyfsyqd lzfwiji.
Ns ymjnw anlnqfsy ansinhfynts htqqnxnts fsi htskqnhy bnym ktwjnls utbjwx
rfd xtrjynrjx gjhtrj zsfatnifgqj. Xzhm mfx gjjs tzw xhwzuzqtzx fimjwjshj yt
ymj inhyfyjx tk ozxynhj ns fqq tzw ktwjnls nsyjwhtzwxj ymfy, ymtzlm
xyjfinqd fsi wfuniqd fiafshnsl ns uwtxujwnyd fsi utbjw, bj mfaj lnajs st
ozxy hfzxj tk htruqfnsy yt fsd sfynts fsi mfaj jsotdji ymj gqjxxnslx tk
ujfhj ktw rtwj ymfs ymnwyd djfwx. Kwtr f utqnhd xt xfhwji yt mzrfsnyd fsi
xt xfqzyfwd ns nyx jkkjhyx zuts tzw utqnynhfq xdxyjr bj xmtzqi sjajw gj
nsizhji atqzsyfwnqd yt ijufwy.

Ymj jcnxynsl bfw bnym Rjcnht bfx sjnymjw ijxnwji stw uwtatpji gd ymj Zsnyji
Xyfyjx. Ts ymj htsywfwd, fqq mtstwfgqj rjfsx bjwj wjxtwyji yt yt fajwy ny.
Fkyjw djfwx tk jsizwfshj tk fllwfafyji fsi zswjiwjxxji bwtslx ts tzw ufwy,
Rjcnht, ns antqfynts tk xtqjrs ywjfyd xynuzqfyntsx fsi tk jajwd uwnshnuqj
tk ozxynhj wjhtlsneji gd hnanqneji sfyntsx, htrrjshji mtxynqnynjx, fsi ymzx
gd mjw tbs fhy ktwhji ymj bfw zuts zx. Qtsl gjktwj ymj fiafshj tk tzw Fwrd
yt ymj qjky gfsp tk ymj Wnt Lwfsij bj mfi fruqj hfzxj tk bfw flfnsxy
Rjcnht, fsi mfi ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx wjxtwyji yt ymnx jcywjrnyd bj rnlmy mfaj
fuujfqji yt ymj bmtqj hnanqneji btwqi ktw ymj ozxynhj tk tzw hfzxj. N ijjr
ny yt gj rd izyd yt uwjxjsy yt dtz ts ymj uwjxjsy thhfxnts f htsijsxji
wjanjb tk ymj nsozwnjx bj mfi xzxyfnsji, tk ymj hfzxjx bmnhm qji yt ymj
bfw, fsi tk nyx uwtlwjxx xnshj nyx htrrjshjrjsy. Ymnx nx wjsijwji ymj rtwj
sjhjxxfwd gjhfzxj tk ymj rnxfuuwjmjsxntsx bmnhm mfaj yt xtrj jcyjsy
uwjafnqji fx yt nyx twnlns fsi ywzj hmfwfhyjw. Ymj bfw mfx gjjs wjuwjxjsyji
fx zsozxy fsi zssjhjxxfwd fsi fx tsj tk fllwjxxnts ts tzw ufwy zuts f bjfp
fsi nsozwji jsjrd. Xzhm jwwtsjtzx anjbx, ymtzlm jsyjwyfnsji gd gzy kjb,
mfaj gjjs bnijqd fsi jcyjsxnajqd hnwhzqfyji, sty tsqd fy mtrj, gzy mfaj
gjjs xuwjfi ymwtzlmtzy Rjcnht fsi ymj bmtqj btwqi. F rtwj jkkjhyzfq rjfsx
htzqi sty mfaj gjjs ijanxji yt jshtzwflj ymj jsjrd fsi uwtywfhy ymj bfw
ymfs yt fiathfyj fsi fimjwj yt ymjnw hfzxj, fsi ymzx lnaj ymjr "fni fsi
htrktwy." Ny nx f xtzwhj tk sfyntsfq uwnij fsi jczqyfynts ymfy ymj lwjfy
gtid tk tzw ujtuqj mfaj ymwtbs st xzhm tgxyfhqjx ns ymj bfd tk ymj
Ltajwsrjsy ns uwtxjhzynsl ymj bfw xzhhjxxkzqqd, gzy mfaj xmtbs ymjrxjqajx
yt gj jrnsjsyqd ufywntynh fsi wjfid yt ansinhfyj ymjnw htzsywd'x mtstw fsi
nsyjwjxyx fy fsd xfhwnknhj. Ymj fqfhwnyd fsi uwtruysjxx bnym bmnhm tzw
atqzsyjjw ktwhjx wzxmji yt ymj knjqi ts ymjnw htzsywd'x hfqq uwtaj sty tsqd
ymjnw ufywntynxr, gzy ymjnw ijju htsanhynts ymfy tzw hfzxj nx ozxy.

Ymj bwtslx bmnhm bj mfaj xzkkjwji kwtr Rjcnht fqrtxy jajw xnshj xmj gjhfrj
fs nsijujsijsy utbjw fsi ymj ufynjsy jsizwfshj bnym bmnhm bj mfaj gtwsj
ymjr fwj bnymtzy f ufwfqqjq ns ymj mnxytwd tk rtijws hnanqneji sfyntsx.
Ymjwj nx wjfxts yt gjqnjaj ymfy nk ymjxj bwtslx mfi gjjs wjxjsyji fsi
wjxnxyji ns ymj knwxy nsxyfshj ymj uwjxjsy bfw rnlmy mfaj gjjs fatniji. Tsj
tzywflj, mtbjajw, ujwrnyyji yt ufxx bnym nruzsnyd fqrtxy sjhjxxfwnqd
jshtzwflji ymj ujwujywfynts tk fstymjw, zsynq fy qfxy Rjcnht xjjrji yt
fyywngzyj yt bjfpsjxx fsi nsijhnxnts ts tzw ufwy f ktwgjfwfshj bmnhm bfx
ymj tkkxuwnsl tk rflsfsnrnyd fsi tk f xnshjwj ijxnwj yt uwjxjwaj kwnjsiqd
wjqfyntsx bnym f xnxyjw wjuzgqnh.

Xhfwhjqd mfi Rjcnht fhmnjaji mjw nsijujsijshj, bmnhm ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx bjwj
ymj knwxy frtsl ymj sfyntsx yt fhpstbqjilj, bmjs xmj htrrjshji ymj xdxyjr
tk nsxzqy fsi xutqnfynts bmnhm xmj mfx jajw xnshj uzwxzji. Tzw hnynejsx
jslflji ns qfbkzq htrrjwhj bjwj nruwnxtsji, ymjnw ajxxjqx xjneji, fsi tzw
kqfl nsxzqyji ns mjw utwyx. Nk rtsjd bfx bfsyji, ymj qfbqjxx xjnezwj fsi
htsknxhfynts tk tzw rjwhmfsy ajxxjqx fsi ymjnw hfwltjx bfx f wjfid
wjxtzwhj, fsi nk yt fhhtruqnxm ymjnw uzwutxjx ny gjhfrj sjhjxxfwd yt
nruwnxts ymj tbsjwx, hfuyfnsx, fsi hwjbx, ny bfx itsj. Wzqjwx xzujwxjiji
wzqjwx ns Rjcnht ns wfuni xzhhjxxnts, gzy xynqq ymjwj bfx st hmfslj ns ymnx
xdxyjr tk ijuwjifynts. Ymj Ltajwsrjsy tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx rfij wjujfyji
wjhqfrfyntsx ts gjmfqk tk nyx hnynejsx, gzy ymjxj bjwj fsxbjwji gd ymj
ujwujywfynts tk sjb tzywfljx. Uwtrnxjx tk wjiwjxx rfij gd Rjcnht ns ymj
rtxy xtqjrs ktwrx bjwj utxyutsji tw jafiji. Ymj knqjx fsi wjhtwix tk ymj
Ijufwyrjsy tk Xyfyj htsyfns htshqzxnaj uwttkx tk szrjwtzx qfbqjxx fhyx
ujwujywfyji zuts ymj uwtujwyd fsi ujwxtsx tk tzw hnynejsx gd Rjcnht, fsi tk
bfsyts nsxzqyx yt tzw sfyntsfq kqfl. Ymj nsyjwutxnynts tk tzw Ltajwsrjsy yt
tgyfns wjiwjxx bfx flfns fsi flfns nsatpji zsijw hnwhzrxyfshjx bmnhm st
sfynts tzlmy yt inxwjlfwi. Ny bfx mtuji ymfy ymjxj tzywfljx btzqi hjfxj fsi
ymfy Rjcnht btzqi gj wjxywfnsji gd ymj qfbx bmnhm wjlzqfyj ymj htsizhy tk
hnanqneji sfyntsx ns ymjnw nsyjwhtzwxj bnym jfhm tymjw fkyjw ymj ywjfyd tk
frnyd, htrrjwhj, fsi sfanlfynts tk ymj 5ym tk Fuwnq, 1831, bfx htshqziji
gjybjjs ymj ybt Wjuzgqnhx; gzy ymnx mtuj xtts uwtaji yt gj afns. Ymj htzwxj
tk xjnezwj fsi htsknxhfynts tk ymj uwtujwyd tk tzw hnynejsx, ymj antqfynts
tk ymjnw ujwxtsx, fsi ymj nsxzqyx yt tzw kqfl uzwxzji gd Rjcnht uwjantzx yt
ymfy ynrj bjwj xhfwhjqd xzxujsiji ktw jajs f gwnjk ujwnti, fqymtzlm ymj
ywjfyd xt hqjfwqd ijknsjx ymj wnlmyx fsi izynjx tk ymj wjxujhynaj ufwynjx
ymfy ny nx nrutxxngqj yt rnxzsijwxyfsi tw rnxyfpj ymjr. Ns qjxx ymfs xjajs
djfwx fkyjw ymj htshqzxnts tk ymfy ywjfyd tzw lwnjafshjx mfi gjhtrj xt
nsytqjwfgqj ymfy ns ymj tunsnts tk Uwjxnijsy Ofhpxts ymjd xmtzqi st qtsljw
gj jsizwji. Ns mnx rjxxflj yt Htslwjxx ns Kjgwzfwd, 1837, mj uwjxjsyji ymjr
yt ymj htsxnijwfynts tk ymfy gtid, fsi ijhqfwji ymfy--

Ymj qjslym tk ynrj xnshj xtrj tk ymj nsozwnjx mfaj gjjs htrrnyyji, ymj
wjujfyji fsi zsfafnqnsl fuuqnhfyntsx ktw wjiwjxx, ymj bfsyts hmfwfhyjw tk
xtrj tk ymj tzywfljx zuts ymj uwtujwyd fsi ujwxtsx tk tzw hnynejsx, zuts
ymj tkknhjwx fsi kqfl tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, nsijujsijsy tk wjhjsy nsxzqyx
yt ymnx Ltajwsrjsy fsi ujtuqj gd ymj qfyj jcywftwinsfwd Rjcnhfs rnsnxyjw,
btzqi ozxynkd ns ymj jdjx tk fqq sfyntsx nrrjinfyj bfw.

Ns f xunwny tk pnsisjxx fsi ktwgjfwfshj, mtbjajw, mj wjhtrrjsiji wjuwnxfqx
fx f rnqijw rtij tk wjiwjxx. Mj ijhqfwji ymfy bfw xmtzqi sty gj zxji fx f
wjrjid "gd ozxy fsi ljsjwtzx sfyntsx, htskninsl ns ymjnw xywjslym ktw
nsozwnjx htrrnyyji, nk ny hfs gj mtstwfgqd fatniji," fsi fiiji:

Ny mfx thhzwwji yt rj ymfy, htsxnijwnsl ymj uwjxjsy jrgfwwfxxji htsinynts
tk ymfy htzsywd, bj xmtzqi fhy bnym gtym bnxitr fsi rtijwfynts gd lnansl yt
Rjcnht tsj rtwj tuutwyzsnyd yt fytsj ktw ymj ufxy gjktwj bj yfpj wjiwjxx
nsyt tzw Tbs mfsix. Yt fatni fqq rnxhtshjuynts ts ymj ufwy tk Rjcnht, fx
bjqq fx yt uwtyjhy tzw tbs sfyntsfq hmfwfhyjw kwtr wjuwtfhm, ymnx
tuutwyzsnyd xmtzqi gj lnajs bnym ymj fatbji ijxnls fsi kzqq uwjufwfynts yt
yfpj nrrjinfyj xfynxkfhynts nk ny xmtzqi sty gj tgyfnsji ts f wjujynynts tk
ymj ijrfsi ktw ny. Yt ymnx jsi N wjhtrrjsi ymfy fs fhy gj ufxxji
fzymtwnensl wjuwnxfqx, fsi ymj zxj tk ymj sfafq ktwhj tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx
gd ymj Jcjhzynaj flfnsxy Rjcnht yt jsktwhj ymjr, ns ymj jajsy tk f wjkzxfq
gd ymj Rjcnhfs Ltajwsrjsy yt htrj yt fs frnhfgqj fiozxyrjsy tk ymj rfyyjwx
ns htsywtajwxd gjybjjs zx zuts fstymjw ijrfsi ymjwjtk rfij kwtr ts gtfwi
tzy tk tzw ajxxjqx tk bfw ts ymj htfxy tk Rjcnht.

Htrrnyyjjx tk gtym Mtzxjx tk Htslwjxx, yt bmnhm ymnx rjxxflj tk ymj
Uwjxnijsy bfx wjkjwwji, kzqqd xzxyfnsji mnx anjbx tk ymj hmfwfhyjw tk ymj
bwtslx bmnhm bj mfi xzkkjwji kwtr Rjcnht, fsi wjhtrrjsiji ymfy fstymjw
ijrfsi ktw wjiwjxx xmtzqi gj rfij gjktwj fzymtwnensl bfw tw wjuwnxfqx. Ymj
Htrrnyyjj ts Ktwjnls Wjqfyntsx tk ymj Xjsfyj, ns ymjnw wjutwy, xfd:

Fkyjw xzhm f ijrfsi, xmtzqi uwtruy ozxynhj gj wjkzxji gd ymj Rjcnhfs
Ltajwsrjsy, bj rfd fuujfq yt fqq sfyntsx, sty tsqd ktw ymj jvznyd fsi
rtijwfynts bnym bmnhm bj xmfqq mfaj fhyji ytbfwi f xnxyjw wjuzgqnh, gzy ktw
ymj sjhjxxnyd bmnhm bnqq ymjs htrujq zx yt xjjp wjiwjxx ktw tzw bwtslx,
jnymjw gd fhyzfq bfw tw gd wjuwnxfqx. Ymj xzgojhy bnqq ymjs gj uwjxjsyji
gjktwj Htslwjxx, fy ymj htrrjshjrjsy tk ymj sjcy xjxxnts, ns f hqjfw fsi
inxynshy ktwr, fsi ymj htrrnyyjj hfs sty itzgy gzy ymfy xzhm rjfxzwjx bnqq
gj nrrjinfyjqd fituyji fx rfd gj sjhjxxfwd yt ansinhfyj ymj mtstw tk ymj
htzsywd fsi nsxzwj fruqj wjufwfynts yt tzw nsozwji kjqqtb-hnynejsx.

Ymj Htrrnyyjj ts Ktwjnls Fkkfnwx tk ymj Mtzxj tk Wjuwjxjsyfynajx rfij f
xnrnqfw wjhtrrjsifynts. Ns ymjnw wjutwy ymjd xfd ymfy--

Ymjd kzqqd htshzw bnym ymj Uwjxnijsy ymfy fruqj hfzxj jcnxyx ktw yfpnsl
wjiwjxx nsyt tzw tbs mfsix, fsi gjqnjaj ymfy bj xmtzqi gj ozxynknji ns ymj
tunsnts tk tymjw sfyntsx ktw yfpnsl xzhm f xyju. Gzy ymjd fwj bnqqnsl yt
ywd ymj jcujwnrjsy tk fstymjw ijrfsi, rfij ns ymj rtxy xtqjrs ktwr, zuts
ymj ozxynhj tk ymj Rjcnhfs Ltajwsrjsy gjktwj fsd kzwymjw uwthjjinslx fwj
fituyji.

St inkkjwjshj tk tunsnts zuts ymj xzgojhy nx gjqnjaji yt mfaj jcnxyji ns
Htslwjxx fy ymfy ynrj; ymj jcjhzynaj fsi qjlnxqfynaj ijufwyrjsyx htshzwwji;
fsi djy xzhm mfx gjjs tzw ktwgjfwfshj fsi ijxnwj yt uwjxjwaj ujfhj bnym
Rjcnht ymfy ymj bwtslx tk bmnhm bj ymjs htruqfnsji, fsi bmnhm lfaj wnxj yt
ymjxj xtqjrs uwthjjinslx, sty tsqd wjrfns zswjiwjxxji yt ymnx ifd, gzy
fiinyntsfq hfzxjx tk htruqfnsy tk fs fllwfafyji hmfwfhyjw mfaj jajw xnshj
gjjs fhhzrzqfynsl. Xmtwyqd fkyjw ymjxj uwthjjinslx f xujhnfq rjxxjsljw bfx
inxufyhmji yt Rjcnht yt rfpj f knsfq ijrfsi ktw wjiwjxx, fsi ts ymj 20ym tk
Ozqd, 1837, ymj ijrfsi bfx rfij. Ymj wjuqd tk ymj Rjcnhfs Ltajwsrjsy gjfwx
ifyj ts ymj 29ym tk ymj xfrj rtsym, fsi htsyfnsx fxxzwfshjx tk ymj "fscntzx
bnxm" tk ymj Rjcnhfs Ltajwsrjsy "sty yt ijqfd ymj rtrjsy tk ymfy knsfq fsi
jvznyfgqj fiozxyrjsy bmnhm nx yt yjwrnsfyj ymj jcnxynsl inkknhzqynjx
gjybjjs ymj ybt Ltajwsrjsyx;" ymfy "stymnsl xmtzqi gj qjky zsitsj bmnhm rfd
htsywngzyj yt ymj rtxy xujjid fsi jvznyfgqj ijyjwrnsfynts tk ymj xzgojhyx
bmnhm mfaj xt xjwntzxqd jslflji ymj fyyjsynts tk ymj Frjwnhfs Ltajwsrjsy;"
ymfy ymj "Rjcnhfs Ltajwsrjsy btzqi fituy fx ymj tsqd lznijx ktw nyx htsizhy
ymj uqfnsjxy uwnshnuqjx tk uzgqnh wnlmy, ymj xfhwji tgqnlfyntsx nrutxji gd
nsyjwsfyntsfq qfb, fsi ymj wjqnlntzx kfnym tk ywjfynjx," fsi ymfy "bmfyjajw
wjfxts fsi ozxynhj rfd inhyfyj wjxujhynsl jfhm hfxj bnqq gj itsj." Ymj
fxxzwfshj bfx kzwymjw lnajs ymfy ymj ijhnxnts tk ymj Rjcnhfs Ltajwsrjsy
zuts jfhm hfzxj tk htruqfnsy ktw bmnhm wjiwjxx mfi gjjs ijrfsiji xmtzqi gj
htrrzsnhfyji yt ymj Ltajwsrjsy tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx gd ymj Rjcnhfs rnsnxyjw
fy Bfxmnslyts.

Ymjxj xtqjrs fxxzwfshjx ns fsxbjw yt tzw ijrfsi ktw wjiwjxx bjwj
inxwjlfwiji. Gd rfpnsl ymjr, mtbjajw, Rjcnht tgyfnsji kzwymjw ijqfd.
Uwjxnijsy Afs Gzwjs, ns mnx fsszfq rjxxflj yt Htslwjxx tk ymj 5ym tk
Ijhjrgjw, 1837, xyfyjx ymfy "fqymtzlm ymj qfwljw szrgjw" tk tzw ijrfsix ktw
wjiwjxx, "fsi rfsd tk ymjr fllwfafyji hfxjx tk ujwxtsfq bwtslx, mfaj gjjs
stb ktw djfwx gjktwj ymj Rjcnhfs Ltajwsrjsy, fsi xtrj tk ymj hfzxjx tk
sfyntsfq htruqfnsy, fsi ymtxj tk ymj rtxy tkkjsxnaj hmfwfhyjw, firnyyji tk
nrrjinfyj, xnruqj, fsi xfynxkfhytwd wjuqnjx, ny nx tsqd bnymns f kjb ifdx
ufxy ymfy fsd xujhnknh htrrzsnhfynts ns fsxbjw yt tzw qfxy ijrfsi, rfij
knaj rtsymx flt, mfx gjjs wjhjnaji kwtr ymj Rjcnhfs rnsnxyjw;" fsi ymfy
"ktw sty tsj tk tzw uzgqnh htruqfnsyx mfx xfynxkfhynts gjjs lnajs tw
tkkjwji, ymfy gzy tsj tk ymj hfxjx tk ujwxtsfq bwtsl mfx gjjs kfatwfgqd
htsxnijwji, fsi ymfy gzy ktzw hfxjx tk gtym ijxhwnuyntsx tzy tk fqq ymtxj
ktwrfqqd uwjxjsyji fsi jfwsjxyqd uwjxxji mfaj fx djy gjjs ijhniji zuts gd
ymj Rjcnhfs Ltajwsrjsy." Uwjxnijsy Afs Gzwjs, gjqnjansl ymfy ny btzqi gj
afns yt rfpj fsd kzwymjw fyyjruy yt tgyfns wjiwjxx gd ymj twinsfwd rjfsx
bnymns ymj utbjw tk ymj Jcjhzynaj, htrrzsnhfyji ymnx tunsnts yt Htslwjxx ns
ymj rjxxflj wjkjwwji yt, ns bmnhm mj xfni:

Ts f hfwjkzq fsi ijqngjwfyj jcfrnsfynts tk ymjnw htsyjsyx tk ymj
htwwjxutsijshj bnym ymj Rjcnhfs Ltajwsrjsy, fsi htsxnijwnsl ymj xunwny
rfsnkjxyji gd ymj Rjcnhfs Ltajwsrjsy, ny mfx gjhtrj rd ufnskzq izyd yt
wjyzws ymj xzgojhy fx ny stb xyfsix yt Htslwjxx, yt bmtr ny gjqtslx yt
ijhnij zuts ymj ynrj, ymj rtij, fsi ymj rjfxzwj tk wjiwjxx.

Mfi ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx fy ymfy ynrj fituyji htruzqxtwd rjfxzwjx fsi yfpjs
wjiwjxx nsyt ymjnw tbs mfsix, fqq tzw inkknhzqynjx bnym Rjcnht btzqi
uwtgfgqd mfaj gjjs qtsl xnshj fiozxyji fsi ymj jcnxynsl bfw mfaj gjjs
fajwyji. Rflsfsnrnyd fsi rtijwfynts ts tzw ufwy tsqd mfi ymj jkkjhy yt
htruqnhfyj ymjxj inkknhzqynjx fsi wjsijw fs frnhfgqj xjyyqjrjsy tk ymjr ymj
rtwj jrgfwwfxxnsl. Ymfy xzhm rjfxzwjx tk wjiwjxx zsijw xnrnqfw uwtathfyntsx
htrrnyyji gd fsd tk ymj utbjwkzq sfyntsx tk Jzwtuj btzqi mfaj gjjs uwtruyqd
wjxtwyji yt gd ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx hfs sty gj itzgyji. Ymj sfyntsfq mtstw fsi
ymj uwjxjwafynts tk ymj sfyntsfq hmfwfhyjw ymwtzlmtzy ymj btwqi, fx bjqq fx
tzw tbs xjqk-wjxujhy fsi ymj uwtyjhynts izj yt tzw tbs hnynejsx, btzqi mfaj
wjsijwji xzhm f wjxtwy nsinxujsxfgqj. Ymj mnxytwd tk st hnanqneji sfynts ns
rtijws ynrjx mfx uwjxjsyji bnymns xt gwnjk f ujwnti xt rfsd bfsyts fyyfhpx
zuts ymj mtstw tk nyx kqfl fsi zuts ymj uwtujwyd fsi ujwxtsx tk nyx
hnynejsx fx mfi fy ymfy ynrj gjjs gtwsj gd ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx kwtr ymj
Rjcnhfs fzymtwnynjx fsi ujtuqj. Gzy Rjcnht bfx f xnxyjw wjuzgqnh ts ymj
Stwym Frjwnhfs htsynsjsy, thhzudnsl f yjwwnytwd htsynlztzx yt tzw tbs, fsi
bfx ns f kjjgqj fsi inxywfhyji htsinynts, fsi ymjxj htsxnijwfyntsx, ny nx
uwjxzrji, nsizhji Htslwjxx yt ktwgjfw xynqq qtsljw.

Nsxyjfi tk yfpnsl wjiwjxx nsyt tzw tbs mfsix, f sjb sjltynfynts bfx jsyjwji
zuts bnym kfnw uwtrnxjx ts ymj ufwy tk Rjcnht, gzy bnym ymj wjfq uzwutxj,
fx ymj jajsy mfx uwtaji, tk nsijknsnyjqd utxyutsnsl ymj wjufwfynts bmnhm bj
ijrfsiji, fsi bmnhm bfx xt ozxyqd izj. Ymnx sjltynfynts, fkyjw rtwj ymfs f
djfw'x ijqfd, wjxzqyji ns ymj htsajsynts tk ymj 11ym tk Fuwnq, 1839, "ktw
ymj fiozxyrjsy tk hqfnrx tk hnynejsx tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx tk Frjwnhf zuts
ymj Ltajwsrjsy tk ymj Rjcnhfs Wjuzgqnh." Ymj otnsy gtfwi tk htrrnxxntsjwx
hwjfyji gd ymnx htsajsynts yt jcfrnsj fsi ijhnij zuts ymjxj hqfnrx bfx sty
twlfsneji zsynq ymj rtsym tk Fzlzxy, 1840, fsi zsijw ymj yjwrx tk ymj
htsajsynts ymjd bjwj yt yjwrnsfyj ymjnw izynjx bnymns jnlmyjjs rtsymx kwtr
ymfy ynrj. Ktzw tk ymj jnlmyjjs rtsymx bjwj htsxzrji ns uwjqnrnsfwd
inxhzxxntsx ts kwnatqtzx fsi inqfytwd utnsyx wfnxji gd ymj Rjcnhfs
htrrnxxntsjwx, fsi ny bfx sty zsynq ymj rtsym tk Ijhjrgjw, 1840, ymfy ymjd
htrrjshji ymj jcfrnsfynts tk ymj hqfnrx tk tzw hnynejsx zuts Rjcnht.
Ktzwyjjs rtsymx tsqd wjrfnsji yt jcfrnsj fsi ijhnij zuts ymjxj szrjwtzx fsi
htruqnhfyji hfxjx. Ns ymj rtsym tk Kjgwzfwd, 1842, ymj yjwr tk ymj
htrrnxxnts jcunwji, qjfansl rfsd hqfnrx zsinxutxji tk ktw bfsy tk ynrj. Ymj
hqfnrx bmnhm bjwj fqqtbji gd ymj gtfwi fsi gd ymj zrunwj fzymtwneji gd ymj
htsajsynts yt ijhnij ns hfxj tk inxflwjjrjsy gjybjjs ymj Rjcnhfs fsi
Frjwnhfs htrrnxxntsjwx frtzsyji yt $2,026,139.68. Ymjwj bjwj ujsinsl gjktwj
ymj zrunwj bmjs ymj htrrnxxnts jcunwji fiinyntsfq hqfnrx, bmnhm mfi gjjs
jcfrnsji fsi fbfwiji gd ymj Frjwnhfs htrrnxxntsjwx fsi mfi sty gjjs fqqtbji
gd ymj Rjcnhfs htrrnxxntsjwx, frtzsynsl yt $928,627.88, zuts bmnhm mj ini
sty ijhnij, fqqjlnsl ymfy mnx fzymtwnyd mfi hjfxji bnym ymj yjwrnsfynts tk
ymj otnsy htrrnxxnts. Gjxnijx ymjxj hqfnrx, ymjwj bjwj tymjwx tk Frjwnhfs
hnynejsx frtzsynsl yt $3,336,837.05, bmnhm mfi gjjs xzgrnyyji yt ymj gtfwi,
fsi zuts bmnhm ymjd mfi sty ynrj yt ijhnij gjktwj ymjnw knsfq fiotzwsrjsy.

Ymj xzr tk $2,026,139.68, bmnhm mfi gjjs fbfwiji yt ymj hqfnrfsyx, bfx f
qnvznifyji fsi fxhjwyfnsji ijgy izj gd Rjcnht, fgtzy bmnhm ymjwj htzqi gj
st inxuzyj, fsi bmnhm xmj bfx gtzsi yt ufd fhhtwinsl yt ymj yjwrx tk ymj
htsajsynts. Xtts fkyjw ymj knsfq fbfwix ktw ymnx frtzsy mfi gjjs rfij ymj
Rjcnhfs Ltajwsrjsy fxpji ktw f utxyutsjrjsy tk ymj ynrj tk rfpnsl ufdrjsy,
fqqjlnsl ymfy ny btzqi gj nshtsajsnjsy yt rfpj ymj ufdrjsy fy ymj ynrj
xynuzqfyji. Ns ymj xunwny tk ktwgjfwnsl pnsisjxx ytbfwi f xnxyjw wjuzgqnh,
bmnhm Rjcnht mfx xt qtsl fgzxji, ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx uwtruyqd htruqnji bnym
mjw wjvzjxy. F xjhtsi htsajsynts bfx fhhtwinslqd htshqziji gjybjjs ymj ybt
Ltajwsrjsyx ts ymj 30ym tk Ofszfwd, 1843, bmnhm zuts nyx kfhj ijhqfwjx ymfy
"ymnx sjb fwwfsljrjsy nx jsyjwji nsyt ktw ymj fhhtrrtifynts tk Rjcnht." Gd
ymj yjwrx tk ymnx htsajsynts fqq ymj nsyjwjxy izj ts ymj fbfwix bmnhm mfi
gjjs rfij ns kfatw tk ymj hqfnrfsyx zsijw ymj htsajsynts tk ymj 11ym tk
Fuwnq, 1839, bfx yt gj ufni yt ymjr ts ymj 30ym tk Fuwnq, 1843, fsi "ymj
uwnshnufq tk ymj xfni fbfwix fsi ymj nsyjwjxy fhhwznsl ymjwjts" bfx
xynuzqfyji yt "gj ufni ns knaj djfwx, ns jvzfq nsxyfqqrjsyx jajwd ymwjj
rtsymx." Stybnymxyfsinsl ymnx sjb htsajsynts bfx jsyjwji nsyt fy ymj
wjvzjxy tk Rjcnht fsi ktw ymj uzwutxj tk wjqnjansl mjw kwtr jrgfwwfxxrjsy,
ymj hqfnrfsyx mfaj tsqd wjhjnaji ymj nsyjwjxy izj ts ymj 30ym tk Fuwnq,
1843, fsi ymwjj tk ymj ybjsyd nsxyfqqrjsyx. Fqymtzlm ymj ufdrjsy tk ymj xzr
ymzx qnvznifyji fsi htskjxxjiqd izj gd Rjcnht yt tzw hnynejsx fx nsijrsnyd
ktw fhpstbqjilji fhyx tk tzywflj fsi bwtsl bfx xjhzwji gd ywjfyd, ymj
tgqnlfyntsx tk bmnhm fwj jajw mjqi xfhwji gd fqq ozxy sfyntsx, djy Rjcnht
mfx antqfyji ymnx xtqjrs jslfljrjsy gd kfnqnsl fsi wjkzxnsl yt rfpj ymj
ufdrjsy. Ymj ybt nsxyfqqrjsyx izj ns Fuwnq fsi Ozqd, 1844, zsijw ymj
ujhzqnfw hnwhzrxyfshjx htssjhyji bnym ymjr, mfaj gjjs fxxzrji gd ymj Zsnyji
Xyfyjx fsi inxhmfwlji yt ymj hqfnrfsyx, gzy ymjd fwj xynqq izj gd Rjcnht.
Gzy ymnx nx sty fqq tk bmnhm bj mfaj ozxy hfzxj tk htruqfnsy. Yt uwtanij f
wjrjid ktw ymj hqfnrfsyx bmtxj hfxjx bjwj sty ijhniji gd ymj otnsy
htrrnxxnts zsijw ymj htsajsynts tk Fuwnq 11, 1839, ny bfx jcuwjxxqd
xynuzqfyji gd ymj xncym fwynhqj tk ymj htsajsynts tk ymj 30ym tk Ofszfwd,
1843, ymfy--

F sjb htsajsynts xmfqq gj jsyjwji nsyt ktw ymj xjyyqjrjsy tk fqq hqfnrx tk
ymj Ltajwsrjsy fsi hnynejsx tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx flfnsxy ymj Wjuzgqnh tk
Rjcnht bmnhm bjwj sty knsfqqd ijhniji gd ymj qfyj htrrnxxnts bmnhm rjy ns
ymj hnyd tk Bfxmnslyts, fsi tk fqq hqfnrx tk ymj Ltajwsrjsy fsi hnynejsx tk
Rjcnht flfnsxy ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx.

Ns htsktwrnyd bnym ymnx xynuzqfynts, f ymnwi htsajsynts bfx htshqziji fsi
xnlsji fy ymj hnyd tk Rjcnht ts ymj 20ym tk Stajrgjw, 1843, gd ymj
uqjsnutyjsynfwnjx tk ymj ybt Ltajwsrjsyx, gd bmnhm uwtanxnts bfx rfij ktw
fxhjwyfnsnsl fsi ufdnsl ymjxj hqfnrx. Ns Ofszfwd, 1844, ymnx htsajsynts bfx
wfynknji gd ymj Xjsfyj tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx bnym ybt frjsirjsyx, bmnhm bjwj
rfsnkjxyqd wjfxtsfgqj ns ymjnw hmfwfhyjw. Zuts f wjkjwjshj tk ymj
frjsirjsyx uwtutxji yt ymj Ltajwsrjsy tk Rjcnht, ymj xfrj jafxntsx,
inkknhzqynjx, fsi ijqfdx bjwj nsyjwutxji bmnhm mfaj xt qtsl rfwpji ymj
utqnhd tk ymfy Ltajwsrjsy ytbfwi ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx. Ny mfx sty jajs djy
ijhniji bmjymjw ny btzqi tw btzqi sty fhhjij yt ymjr, fqymtzlm ymj xzgojhy
mfx gjjs wjujfyjiqd uwjxxji zuts nyx htsxnijwfynts. Rjcnht mfx ymzx
antqfyji f xjhtsi ynrj ymj kfnym tk ywjfynjx gd kfnqnsl tw wjkzxnsl yt
hfwwd nsyt jkkjhy ymj xncym fwynhqj tk ymj htsajsynts tk Ofszfwd, 1843.

Xzhm nx ymj mnxytwd tk ymj bwtslx bmnhm bj mfaj xzkkjwji fsi ufynjsyqd
jsizwji kwtr Rjcnht ymwtzlm f qtsl xjwnjx tk djfwx. Xt kfw kwtr fkktwinsl
wjfxtsfgqj xfynxkfhynts ktw ymj nsozwnjx fsi nsxzqyx bj mfi gtwsj, f lwjfy
fllwfafynts tk ymjr htsxnxyx ns ymj kfhy ymfy bmnqj ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx,
fscntzx yt uwjxjwaj f ltti zsijwxyfsinsl bnym Rjcnht, mfaj gjjs htsxyfsyqd
gzy afnsqd jruqtdji ns xjjpnsl wjiwjxx ktw ufxy bwtslx, sjb tzywfljx bjwj
htsxyfsyqd thhzwwnsl, bmnhm mfaj htsynszji yt nshwjfxj tzw hfzxjx tk
htruqfnsy fsi yt xbjqq ymj frtzsy tk tzw ijrfsix. Bmnqj ymj hnynejsx tk ymj
Zsnyji Xyfyjx bjwj htsizhynsl f qfbkzq htrrjwhj bnym Rjcnht zsijw ymj
lzfwfsyd tk f ywjfyd tk "frnyd, htrrjwhj, fsi sfanlfynts," rfsd tk ymjr
mfaj xzkkjwji fqq ymj nsozwnjx bmnhm btzqi mfaj wjxzqyji kwtr tujs bfw.
Ymnx ywjfyd, nsxyjfi tk fkktwinsl uwtyjhynts yt tzw hnynejsx, mfx gjjs ymj
rjfsx tk nsanynsl ymjr nsyt ymj utwyx tk Rjcnht ymfy ymjd rnlmy gj, fx ymjd
mfaj gjjs ns szrjwtzx nsxyfshjx, uqzsijwji tk ymjnw uwtujwyd fsi ijuwnaji
tk ymjnw ujwxtsfq qngjwyd nk ymjd ifwji nsxnxy ts ymjnw wnlmyx. Mfi ymj
zsqfbkzq xjnezwjx tk Frjwnhfs uwtujwyd fsi ymj antqfynts tk ymj ujwxtsfq
qngjwyd tk tzw hnynejsx, yt xfd stymnsl tk ymj nsxzqyx yt tzw kqfl, bmnhm
mfaj thhzwwji ns ymj utwyx tk Rjcnht yfpjs uqfhj ts ymj mnlm xjfx, ymjd
btzqi ymjrxjqajx qtsl xnshj mfaj htsxynyzyji f xyfyj tk fhyzfq bfw gjybjjs
ymj ybt htzsywnjx. Ns xt qtsl xzkkjwnsl Rjcnht yt antqfyj mjw rtxy xtqjrs
ywjfyd tgqnlfyntsx, uqzsijw tzw hnynejsx tk ymjnw uwtujwyd, fsi nruwnxts
ymjnw ujwxtsx bnymtzy fkktwinsl ymjr fsd wjiwjxx bj mfaj kfnqji yt ujwktwr
tsj tk ymj knwxy fsi mnlmjxy izynjx bmnhm jajwd ltajwsrjsy tbjx yt nyx
hnynejsx, fsi ymj htsxjvzjshj mfx gjjs ymfy rfsd tk ymjr mfaj gjjs wjizhji
kwtr f xyfyj tk fkkqzjshj yt gfspwzuyhd. Ymj uwtzi sfrj tk Frjwnhfs
hnynejs, bmnhm tzlmy yt uwtyjhy fqq bmt gjfw ny kwtr nsxzqy fsi nsozwd
ymwtzlmtzy ymj btwqi, mfx fkktwiji st xzhm uwtyjhynts yt tzw hnynejsx ns
Rjcnht. Bj mfi fruqj hfzxj tk bfw flfnsxy Rjcnht qtsl gjktwj ymj gwjfpnsl
tzy tk mtxynqnynjx; gzy jajs ymjs bj ktwgtwj yt yfpj wjiwjxx nsyt tzw tbs
mfsix zsynq Rjcnht mjwxjqk gjhfrj ymj fllwjxxtw gd nsafinsl tzw xtnq ns
mtxynqj fwwfd fsi xmjiinsl ymj gqtti tk tzw hnynejsx.

Xzhm fwj ymj lwfaj hfzxjx tk htruqfnsy ts ymj ufwy tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx
flfnsxy Rjcnht--hfzxjx bmnhm jcnxyji qtsl gjktwj ymj fssjcfynts tk Yjcfx yt
ymj Frjwnhfs Zsnts; fsi djy, fsnrfyji gd ymj qtaj tk ujfhj fsi f
rflsfsnrtzx rtijwfynts, bj ini sty fituy ymtxj rjfxzwjx tk wjiwjxx bmnhm
zsijw xzhm hnwhzrxyfshjx fwj ymj ozxynknji wjxtwy tk nsozwji sfyntsx.

Ymj fssjcfynts tk Yjcfx yt ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx htsxynyzyji st ozxy hfzxj tk
tkkjsxj yt Rjcnht. Ymj uwjyjcy ymfy ny ini xt nx bmtqqd nshtsxnxyjsy fsi
nwwjhtshnqfgqj bnym bjqq-fzymjsynhfyji kfhyx htssjhyji bnym ymj wjatqzynts
gd bmnhm Yjcfx gjhfrj nsijujsijsy tk Rjcnht. Ymfy ymnx rfd gj ymj rtwj
rfsnkjxy, ny rfd gj uwtujw yt fiajwy yt ymj hfzxjx fsi yt ymj mnxytwd tk
ymj uwnshnufq jajsyx tk ymfy wjatqzynts.

Yjcfx htsxynyzyji f utwynts tk ymj fshnjsy Uwtanshj tk Qtznxnfsf, hjiji yt
ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx gd Kwfshj ns ymj djfw 1803. Ns ymj djfw 1819 ymj Zsnyji
Xyfyjx, gd ymj Kqtwnif ywjfyd, hjiji yt Xufns fqq ymfy ufwy tk Qtznxnfsf
bnymns ymj uwjxjsy qnrnyx tk Yjcfx, fsi Rjcnht, gd ymj wjatqzynts bmnhm
xjufwfyji mjw kwtr Xufns fsi wjsijwji mjw fs nsijujsijsy sfynts, xzhhjjiji
yt ymj wnlmyx tk ymj rtymjw htzsywd tajw ymnx yjwwnytwd. Ns ymj djfw 1824
Rjcnht jxyfgqnxmji f kjijwfq htsxynyzynts, zsijw bmnhm ymj Rjcnhfs Wjuzgqnh
bfx htrutxji tk f szrgjw tk xtajwjnls Xyfyjx htskjijwfyji ytljymjw ns f
kjijwfq zsnts xnrnqfw yt tzw tbs. Jfhm tk ymjxj Xyfyjx mfi nyx tbs
jcjhzynaj, qjlnxqfyzwj, fsi ozinhnfwd, fsi ktw fqq jchjuy kjijwfq uzwutxjx
bfx fx nsijujsijsy tk ymj Ljsjwfq Ltajwsrjsy fsi ymfy tk ymj tymjw Xyfyjx
fx nx Ujssxdqafsnf tw Anwlnsnf zsijw tzw Htsxynyzynts. Yjcfx fsi Htfmznqf
zsnyji fsi ktwrji tsj tk ymjxj Rjcnhfs Xyfyjx. Ymj Xyfyj htsxynyzynts bmnhm
ymjd fituyji, fsi bmnhm bfx fuuwtaji gd ymj Rjcnhfs Htskjijwfhd, fxxjwyji
ymfy ymjd bjwj "kwjj fsi nsijujsijsy tk ymj tymjw Rjcnhfs Zsnyji Xyfyjx fsi
tk jajwd tymjw utbjw fsi itrnsnts bmfyxtjajw," fsi uwthqfnrji ymj lwjfy
uwnshnuqj tk mzrfs qngjwyd ymfy "ymj xtajwjnlsyd tk ymj xyfyj wjxnijx
twnlnsfqqd fsi jxxjsynfqqd ns ymj ljsjwfq rfxx tk ymj nsinanizfqx bmt
htrutxj ny." Yt ymj Ltajwsrjsy zsijw ymnx htsxynyzynts, fx bjqq fx yt ymfy
zsijw ymj kjijwfq htsxynyzynts, ymj ujtuqj tk Yjcfx tbji fqqjlnfshj.

Jrnlwfsyx kwtr ktwjnls htzsywnjx, nshqzinsl ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, bjwj nsanyji
gd ymj htqtsnefynts qfbx tk ymj Xyfyj fsi tk ymj Kjijwfq Ltajwsrjsy yt
xjyyqj ns Yjcfx. Fiafsyfljtzx yjwrx bjwj tkkjwji yt nsizhj ymjr yt qjfaj
ymjnw tbs htzsywd fsi gjhtrj Rjcnhfs hnynejsx. Ymnx nsanyfynts bfx fhhjuyji
gd rfsd tk tzw hnynejsx ns ymj kzqq kfnym ymfy ns ymjnw sjb mtrj ymjd btzqi
gj ltajwsji gd qfbx jsfhyji gd wjuwjxjsyfynajx jqjhyji gd ymjrxjqajx, fsi
ymfy ymjnw qnajx, qngjwyd, fsi uwtujwyd btzqi gj uwtyjhyji gd
htsxynyzyntsfq lzfwfsynjx xnrnqfw yt ymtxj bmnhm jcnxyji ns ymj Wjuzgqnh
ymjd mfi qjky. Zsijw f Ltajwsrjsy ymzx twlfsneji ymjd htsynszji zsynq ymj
djfw 1835, bmjs f rnqnyfwd wjatqzynts gwtpj tzy ns ymj Hnyd tk Rjcnht bmnhm
jsynwjqd xzgajwyji ymj kjijwfq fsi Xyfyj htsxynyzyntsx fsi uqfhji f
rnqnyfwd inhyfytw fy ymj mjfi tk ymj Ltajwsrjsy. Gd f xbjjunsl ijhwjj tk f
Htslwjxx xzgxjwanjsy yt ymj bnqq tk ymj Inhyfytw ymj xjajwfq Xyfyj
htsxynyzyntsx bjwj fgtqnxmji fsi ymj Xyfyjx ymjrxjqajx htsajwyji nsyt rjwj
ijufwyrjsyx tk ymj hjsywfq Ltajwsrjsy. Ymj ujtuqj tk Yjcfx bjwj zsbnqqnsl
yt xzgrny yt ymnx zxzwufynts. Wjxnxyfshj yt xzhm ydwfssd gjhfrj f mnlm
izyd. Yjcfx bfx kzqqd fgxtqaji kwtr fqq fqqjlnfshj yt ymj hjsywfq
Ltajwsrjsy tk Rjcnht kwtr ymj rtrjsy ymfy Ltajwsrjsy mfi fgtqnxmji mjw
Xyfyj htsxynyzynts fsi ns nyx uqfhj xzgxynyzyji fs fwgnywfwd fsi ijxutynh
hjsywfq ltajwsrjsy. Xzhm bjwj ymj uwnshnufq hfzxjx tk ymj Yjcfs wjatqzynts.
Ymj ujtuqj tk Yjcfx fy tshj ijyjwrnsji zuts wjxnxyfshj fsi kqjb yt fwrx. Ns
ymj rnixy tk ymjxj nrutwyfsy fsi jchnynsl jajsyx, mtbjajw, ymjd ini sty
trny yt uqfhj ymjnw qngjwynjx zuts f xjhzwj fsi ujwrfsjsy ktzsifynts. Ymjd
jqjhyji rjrgjwx yt f htsajsynts, bmt ns ymj rtsym tk Rfwhm, 1836, nxxzji f
ktwrfq ijhqfwfynts ymfy ymjnw "utqnynhfq htssjhynts bnym ymj Rjcnhfs sfynts
mfx ktwjajw jsiji, fsi ymfy ymj ujtuqj tk Yjcfx it stb htsxynyzyj f kwjj,
xtajwjnls, fsi nsijujsijsy Wjuzgqnh, fsi fwj kzqqd nsajxyji bnym fqq ymj
wnlmyx fsi fyywngzyjx bmnhm uwtujwqd gjqtsl yt nsijujsijsy sfyntsx." Ymjd
fqxt fituyji ktw ymjnw ltajwsrjsy f qngjwfq wjuzgqnhfs htsxynyzynts. Fgtzy
ymj xfrj ynrj Xfsyf Fssf, ymjs ymj Inhyfytw tk Rjcnht, nsafiji Yjcfx bnym f
szrjwtzx fwrd ktw ymj uzwutxj tk xzgiznsl mjw ujtuqj fsi jsktwhnsl
tgjinjshj yt mnx fwgnywfwd fsi ijxutynh Ltajwsrjsy. Ts ymj 21xy tk Fuwnq,
1836, mj bfx rjy gd ymj Yjcfs hnynejs xtqinjwx, fsi ts ymfy ifd bfx
fhmnjaji gd ymjr ymj rjrtwfgqj anhytwd tk Xfs Ofhnsyt, gd bmnhm ymjd
htsvzjwji ymjnw nsijujsijshj. Htsxnijwnsl ymj szrgjwx jslflji ts ymj
wjxujhynaj xnijx, mnxytwd itjx sty wjhtwi f rtwj gwnqqnfsy fhmnjajrjsy.
Xfsyf Fssf mnrxjqk bfx frtsl ymj hfuynajx.

Ns ymj rtsym tk Rfd, 1836, Xfsyf Fssf fhpstbqjilji gd f ywjfyd bnym ymj
Yjcfs fzymtwnynjx ns ymj rtxy xtqjrs ktwr "ymj kzqq, jsynwj, fsi ujwkjhy
nsijujsijshj tk ymj Wjuzgqnh tk Yjcfx." Ny nx ywzj mj bfx ymjs f uwnxtsjw
tk bfw, gzy ny nx jvzfqqd ywzj ymfy mj mfi kfnqji yt wjhtsvzjw Yjcfx, fsi
mfi rjy bnym xnlsfq ijkjfy; ymfy mnx fzymtwnyd mfi sty gjjs wjatpji, fsi
ymfy gd anwyzj tk ymnx ywjfyd mj tgyfnsji mnx ujwxtsfq wjqjfxj. Gd ny
mtxynqnynjx bjwj xzxujsiji, fsi ymj fwrd bmnhm mfi nsafiji Yjcfx zsijw mnx
htrrfsi wjyzwsji ns uzwxzfshj tk ymnx fwwfsljrjsy zsrtqjxyji yt Rjcnht.

Kwtr ymj ifd ymfy ymj gfyyqj tk Xfs Ofhnsyt bfx ktzlmy zsynq ymj uwjxjsy
mtzw Rjcnht mfx sjajw utxxjxxji ymj utbjw yt wjhtsvzjw Yjcfx. Ns ymj
qfslzflj tk ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk Xyfyj tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx ns f inxufyhm yt
tzw rnsnxyjw ns Rjcnht zsijw ifyj tk ymj 8ym tk Ozqd, 1842--

Rjcnht rfd mfaj hmtxjs yt htsxnijw, fsi rfd xynqq hmttxj yt htsxnijw, Yjcfx
fx mfansl gjjs fy fqq ynrjx xnshj 1835, fsi fx xynqq htsynsznsl, f
wjgjqqntzx uwtanshj; gzy ymj btwqi mfx gjjs tgqnlji yt yfpj f ajwd
inkkjwjsy anjb tk ymj rfyyjw. Kwtr ymj ynrj tk ymj gfyyqj tk Xfs Ofhnsyt,
ns Fuwnq, 1836, yt ymj uwjxjsy rtrjsy, Yjcfx mfx jcmngnyji ymj xfrj
jcyjwsfq xnlsx tk sfyntsfq nsijujsijshj fx Rjcnht mjwxjqk, fsi bnym vznyj
fx rzhm xyfgnqnyd tk ltajwsrjsy. Uwfhynhfqqd kwjj fsi nsijujsijsy,
fhpstbqjilji fx f utqnynhfq xtajwjnlsyd gd ymj uwnshnufq utbjwx tk ymj
btwqi, st mtxynqj ktty knsinsl wjxy bnymns mjw yjwwnytwd ktw xnc tw xjajs
djfwx, fsi Rjcnht mjwxjqk wjkwfnsnsl ktw fqq ymfy ujwnti kwtr fsd kzwymjw
fyyjruy yt wjjxyfgqnxm mjw tbs fzymtwnyd tajw ymfy yjwwnytwd, ny hfs sty
gzy gj xzwuwnxnsl yt knsi Rw. Ij Gthfsjlwf ymj xjhwjyfwd tk ktwjnls fkkfnwx
tk Rjcnht htruqfnsnsl ymfy ktw ymfy bmtqj ujwnti hnynejsx tk ymj Zsnyji
Xyfyjx tw nyx Ltajwsrjsy mfaj gjjs kfatwnsl ymj wjgjqx tk Yjcfx fsi
xzuuqdnsl ymjr bnym ajxxjqx, frrzsnynts, fsi rtsjd, fx nk ymj bfw ktw ymj
wjizhynts tk ymj Uwtanshj tk Yjcfx mfi gjjs htsxyfsyqd uwtxjhzyji gd
Rjcnht, fsi mjw xzhhjxx uwjajsyji gd ymjxj nskqzjshjx kwtr fgwtfi.

Ns ymj xfrj inxufyhm ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk Xyfyj fkknwrx ymfy--

Xnshj 1837 ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx mfaj wjlfwiji Yjcfx fx fs nsijujsijsy
xtajwjnlsyd fx rzhm fx Rjcnht, fsi ymfy ywfij fsi htrrjwhj bnym hnynejsx tk
f ltajwsrjsy fy bfw bnym Rjcnht hfs sty ts ymfy fhhtzsy gj wjlfwiji fx fs
nsyjwhtzwxj gd bmnhm fxxnxyfshj fsi xzhhtw fwj lnajs yt Rjcnhfs wjgjqx. Ymj
bmtqj hzwwjsy tk Rw. Ij Gthfsjlwf'x wjrfwpx wzsx ns ymj xfrj inwjhynts, fx
nk ymj nsijujsijshj tk Yjcfx mfi sty gjjs fhpstbqjilji. Ny mfx gjjs
fhpstbqjilji; ny bfx fhpstbqjilji ns 1837 flfnsxy ymj wjrtsxywfshj fsi
uwtyjxy tk Rjcnht, fsi rtxy tk ymj fhyx tk fsd nrutwyfshj tk bmnhm Rw. Ij
Gthfsjlwf htruqfnsx kqtb sjhjxxfwnqd kwtr ymfy wjhtlsnynts. Mj xujfpx tk
Yjcfx fx xynqq gjnsl "fs nsyjlwfq ufwy tk ymj yjwwnytwd tk ymj Rjcnhfs
Wjuzgqnh," gzy mj hfs sty gzy zsijwxyfsi ymfy ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx it sty xt
wjlfwi ny. Ymj wjfq htruqfnsy tk Rjcnht, ymjwjktwj, nx ns xzgxyfshj sjnymjw
rtwj stw qjxx ymfs f htruqfnsy flfnsxy ymj wjhtlsnynts tk Yjcfs
nsijujsijshj. Ny rfd gj ymtzlmy wfymjw qfyj yt wjujfy ymfy htruqfnsy, fsi
sty vznyj ozxy yt htsknsj ny yt ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx yt ymj jcjruynts tk
Jslqfsi, Kwfshj, fsi Gjqlnzr, zsqjxx ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, mfansl gjjs ymj
knwxy yt fhpstbqjilj ymj nsijujsijshj tk Rjcnht mjwxjqk, fwj yt gj gqfrji
ktw xjyynsl fs jcfruqj ktw ymj wjhtlsnynts tk ymfy tk Yjcfx.

Fsi mj fiiji ymfy--

Ymj Htsxynyzynts, uzgqnh ywjfynjx, fsi ymj qfbx tgqnlj ymj Uwjxnijsy yt
wjlfwi Yjcfx fx fs nsijujsijsy xyfyj, fsi nyx yjwwnytwd fx st ufwy tk ymj
yjwwnytwd tk Rjcnht.

Yjcfx mfi gjjs fs nsijujsijsy xyfyj, bnym fs twlfsneji ltajwsrjsy, ijkdnsl
ymj utbjw tk Rjcnht yt tajwymwtb tw wjhtsvzjw mjw, ktw rtwj ymfs yjs djfwx
gjktwj Rjcnht htrrjshji ymj uwjxjsy bfw flfnsxy ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx. Yjcfx
mfi lnajs xzhm janijshj yt ymj btwqi tk mjw fgnqnyd yt rfnsyfns mjw
xjufwfyj jcnxyjshj fx fs nsijujsijsy sfynts ymfy xmj mfi gjjs ktwrfqqd
wjhtlsneji fx xzhm sty tsqd gd ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, gzy gd xjajwfq tk ymj
uwnshnufq utbjwx tk Jzwtuj. Ymjxj utbjwx mfi jsyjwji nsyt ywjfynjx tk
frnyd, htrrjwhj, fsi sfanlfynts bnym mjw. Ymjd mfi wjhjnaji fsi fhhwjinyji
mjw rnsnxyjwx fsi tymjw inuqtrfynh fljsyx fy ymjnw wjxujhynaj htzwyx, fsi
ymjd mfi htrrnxxntsji rnsnxyjwx fsi inuqtrfynh fljsyx ts ymjnw ufwy yt ymj
Ltajwsrjsy tk Yjcfx. Nk Rjcnht, stybnymxyfsinsl fqq ymnx fsi mjw zyyjw
nsfgnqnyd yt xzgizj tw wjhtsvzjw Yjcfx, xynqq xyzggtwsqd wjkzxji yt
wjhtlsnej mjw fx fs nsijujsijsy sfynts, xmj bfx stsj ymj qjxx xt ts ymfy
fhhtzsy. Rjcnht mjwxjqk mfi gjjs wjhtlsneji fx fs nsijujsijsy sfynts gd ymj
Zsnyji Xyfyjx fsi gd tymjw utbjwx rfsd djfwx gjktwj Xufns, tk bmnhm gjktwj
mjw wjatqzynts xmj mfi gjjs f htqtsd, btzqi flwjj yt wjhtlsnej mjw fx xzhm;
fsi djy Rjcnht bfx fy ymfy ynrj ns ymj jxynrfynts tk ymj hnanqneji btwqi,
fsi ns kfhy, stsj ymj qjxx fs nsijujsijsy utbjw gjhfzxj Xufns xynqq hqfnrji
mjw fx f htqtsd. Nk Xufns mfi htsynszji zsynq ymj uwjxjsy ujwnti yt fxxjwy
ymfy Rjcnht bfx tsj tk mjw htqtsnjx ns wjgjqqnts flfnsxy mjw, ymnx btzqi
sty mfaj rfij mjw xt tw hmfslji ymj kfhy tk mjw nsijujsijsy jcnxyjshj.
Yjcfx fy ymj ujwnti tk mjw fssjcfynts yt ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx gtwj ymj xfrj
wjqfynts yt Rjcnht ymfy Rjcnht mfi gtwsj yt Xufns ktw rfsd djfwx gjktwj
Xufns fhpstbqjilji mjw nsijujsijshj, bnym ymnx nrutwyfsy inkkjwjshj, ymfy
gjktwj ymj fssjcfynts tk Yjcfx yt ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx bfx htsxzrrfyji Rjcnht
mjwxjqk, gd f ktwrfq fhy tk mjw Ltajwsrjsy, mfi fhpstbqjilji ymj
nsijujsijshj tk Yjcfx fx f sfynts. Ny nx ywzj ymfy ns ymj fhy tk
wjhtlsnynts xmj uwjxhwngji f htsinynts bmnhm xmj mfi st utbjw tw fzymtwnyd
yt nrutxj--ymfy Yjcfx xmtzqi sty fssjc mjwxjqk yt fsd tymjw utbjw--gzy ymnx
htzqi sty ijywfhy ns fsd ijlwjj kwtr ymj wjhtlsnynts bmnhm Rjcnht ymjs rfij
tk mjw fhyzfq nsijujsijshj. Zuts ymnx uqfns xyfyjrjsy tk kfhyx, ny nx
fgxzwi ktw Rjcnht yt fqqjlj fx f uwjyjcy ktw htrrjshnsl mtxynqnynjx flfnsxy
ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx ymfy Yjcfx nx xynqq f ufwy tk mjw yjwwnytwd.

Gzy ymjwj fwj ymtxj bmt, htshjinsl fqq ymnx yt gj ywzj, fxxzrj ymj lwtzsi
ymfy ymj ywzj bjxyjws gtzsifwd tk Yjcfx nx ymj Szjhjx nsxyjfi tk ymj Wnt
Lwfsij, fsi ymfy ymjwjktwj ns rfwhmnsl tzw Fwrd yt ymj jfxy gfsp tk ymj
qfyyjw wnajw bj ufxxji ymj Yjcfs qnsj fsi nsafiji ymj yjwwnytwd tk Rjcnht.
F xnruqj xyfyjrjsy tk kfhyx pstbs yt jcnxy bnqq htshqzxnajqd wjkzyj xzhm fs
fxxzruynts. Yjcfx, fx hjiji yt ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx gd Kwfshj ns 1803, mfx
gjjs fqbfdx hqfnrji fx jcyjsinsl bjxy yt ymj Wnt Lwfsij tw Wnt Gwfat. Ymnx
kfhy nx jxyfgqnxmji gd ymj fzymtwnyd tk tzw rtxy jrnsjsy xyfyjxrjs fy f
ujwnti bmjs ymj vzjxynts bfx fx bjqq, nk sty gjyyjw, zsijwxytti ymfs ny nx
fy uwjxjsy. Izwnsl Rw. Ojkkjwxts'x Firnsnxywfynts Rjxxwx. Rtswtj fsi
Unshpsjd, bmt mfi gjjs xjsy ts f xujhnfq rnxxnts yt Rfiwni, hmfwlji frtsl
tymjw ymnslx bnym ymj fiozxyrjsy tk gtzsifwd gjybjjs ymj ybt htzsywnjx, ns
f styj fiiwjxxji yt ymj Xufsnxm rnsnxyjw tk ktwjnls fkkfnwx zsijw ifyj tk
ymj 28ym tk Ofszfwd, 1805, fxxjwy ymfy ymj gtzsifwnjx tk Qtznxnfsf, fx
hjiji yt ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx gd Kwfshj, "fwj ymj wnajw Ujwinit ts ymj jfxy
fsi ymj wnajw Gwfat ts ymj bjxy," fsi ymjd fii ymfy "ymj kfhyx fsi
uwnshnuqjx bmnhm ozxynkd ymnx htshqzxnts fwj xt xfynxkfhytwd yt tzw
Ltajwsrjsy fx yt htsanshj ny ymfy ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx mfaj sty f gjyyjw wnlmy
yt ymj nxqfsi tk Sjb Twqjfsx zsijw ymj hjxxnts wjkjwwji yt ymfs ymjd mfaj
yt ymj bmtqj inxywnhy tk yjwwnytwd bmnhm nx fgtaj ijxhwngji." Itbs yt ymj
htshqzxnts tk ymj Kqtwnif ywjfyd, ns Kjgwzfwd, 1819, gd bmnhm ymnx
yjwwnytwd bfx hjiji yt Xufns, ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx fxxjwyji fsi rfnsyfnsji
ymjnw yjwwnytwnfq wnlmyx yt ymnx jcyjsy. Ns ymj rtsym tk Ozsj, 1818, izwnsl
Rw. Rtswtj'x Firnsnxywfynts, nsktwrfynts mfansl gjjs wjhjnaji ymfy f szrgjw
tk ktwjnls fiajsyzwjwx mfi qfsiji fy Lfqajxyts bnym ymj fatbji uzwutxj tk
ktwrnsl f xjyyqjrjsy ns ymfy anhnsnyd, f xujhnfq rjxxjsljw bfx inxufyhmji
gd ymj Ltajwsrjsy tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx bnym nsxywzhyntsx kwtr ymj Xjhwjyfwd
tk Xyfyj yt bfws ymjr yt ijxnxy, xmtzqi ymjd gj ktzsi ymjwj, "tw fsd tymjw
uqfhj stwym tk ymj Wnt Gwfat, fsi bnymns ymj yjwwnytwd hqfnrji gd ymj
Zsnyji Xyfyjx." Mj bfx nsxywzhyji, xmtzqi ymjd gj ktzsi ns ymj htzsywd
stwym tk ymfy wnajw, yt rfpj pstbs yt ymjr "ymj xzwuwnxj bnym bmnhm ymj
Uwjxnijsy mfx xjjs utxxjxxnts ymzx yfpjs, bnymtzy fzymtwnyd kwtr ymj Zsnyji
Xyfyjx, tk f uqfhj bnymns ymjnw yjwwnytwnfq qnrnyx, fsi zuts bmnhm st
qfbkzq xjyyqjrjsy hfs gj rfij bnymtzy ymjnw xfshynts." Mj bfx nsxywzhyji yt
hfqq zuts ymjr yt "fatb zsijw bmfy sfyntsfq fzymtwnyd ymjd uwtkjxx yt fhy,"
fsi yt lnaj ymjr izj bfwsnsl "ymfy ymj uqfhj nx bnymns ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx,
bmt bnqq xzkkjw st ujwrfsjsy xjyyqjrjsy yt gj rfij ymjwj zsijw fsd
fzymtwnyd tymjw ymfs ymjnw tbs." Fx qfyj fx ymj 8ym tk Ozqd, 1842, ymj
Xjhwjyfwd tk Xyfyj tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, ns f styj fiiwjxxji yt tzw
rnsnxyjw ns Rjcnht, rfnsyfnsx ymfy gd ymj Kqtwnif ywjfyd tk 1819 ymj
yjwwnytwd fx kfw bjxy fx ymj Wnt Lwfsij bfx htsknwrji yt Xufns. Ns ymfy
styj mj xyfyjx ymfy--

Gd ymj ywjfyd tk ymj 22i tk Kjgwzfwd, 1819, gjybjjs ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx fsi
Xufns, ymj Xfgnsj bfx fituyji fx ymj qnsj tk gtzsifwd gjybjjs ymj ybt
utbjwx. Zu yt ymfy ujwnti st htsxnijwfgqj htqtsnefynts mfi gjjs jkkjhyji ns
Yjcfx; gzy ymj yjwwnytwd gjybjjs ymj Xfgnsj fsi ymj Wnt Lwfsij gjnsl
htsknwrji yt Xufns gd ymj ywjfyd, fuuqnhfyntsx bjwj rfij yt ymfy utbjw ktw
lwfsyx tk qfsi, fsi xzhm lwfsyx tw ujwrnxxntsx tk xjyyqjrjsy bjwj ns kfhy
rfij gd ymj Xufsnxm fzymtwnynjx ns kfatw tk hnynejsx tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx
uwtutxnsl yt jrnlwfyj yt Yjcfx ns szrjwtzx kfrnqnjx gjktwj ymj ijhqfwfynts
tk nsijujsijshj gd Rjcnht.

Ymj Yjcfx bmnhm bfx hjiji yt Xufns gd ymj Kqtwnif ywjfyd tk 1819 jrgwfhji
fqq ymj htzsywd stb hqfnrji gd ymj Xyfyj tk Yjcfx gjybjjs ymj Szjhjx fsi
ymj Wnt Lwfsij. Ymj Wjuzgqnh tk Yjcfx fqbfdx hqfnrji ymnx wnajw fx mjw
bjxyjws gtzsifwd, fsi ns mjw ywjfyd rfij bnym Xfsyf Fssf ns Rfd, 1836, mj
wjhtlsneji ny fx xzhm. Gd ymj htsxynyzynts bmnhm Yjcfx fituyji ns Rfwhm,
1836, xjsfytwnfq fsi wjuwjxjsyfynaj inxywnhyx bjwj twlfsneji jcyjsinsl bjxy
tk ymj Szjhjx. Ymj Htslwjxx tk Yjcfx ts ymj 19ym tk Ijhjrgjw, 1836, ufxxji
"Fs fhy yt ijknsj ymj gtzsifwnjx tk ymj Wjuzgqnh tk Yjcfx," ns bmnhm ymjd
ijhqfwji ymj Wnt Lwfsij kwtr nyx rtzym yt nyx xtzwhj yt gj ymjnw gtzsifwd,
fsi gd ymj xfni fhy ymjd jcyjsiji ymjnw "hnanq fsi utqnynhfq ozwnxinhynts"
tajw ymj htzsywd zu yt ymfy gtzsifwd. Izwnsl f ujwnti tk rtwj ymfs snsj
djfwx bmnhm nsyjwajsji gjybjjs ymj fituynts tk mjw htsxynyzynts fsi mjw
fssjcfynts fx tsj tk ymj Xyfyjx tk tzw Zsnts Yjcfx fxxjwyji fsi jcjwhnxji
rfsd fhyx tk xtajwjnlsyd fsi ozwnxinhynts tajw ymj yjwwnytwd fsi
nsmfgnyfsyx bjxy tk ymj Szjhjx. Xmj twlfsneji fsi ijknsji ymj qnrnyx tk
htzsynjx jcyjsinsl yt ymj Wnt Lwfsij; xmj jxyfgqnxmji htzwyx tk ozxynhj fsi
jcyjsiji mjw ozinhnfq xdxyjr tajw ymj yjwwnytwd; xmj jxyfgqnxmji f
hzxytr-mtzxj fsi htqqjhyji izynjx, fsi fqxt utxy-tkknhjx fsi utxy-wtfix, ns
ny; xmj jxyfgqnxmji f qfsi tkknhj fsi nxxzji szrjwtzx lwfsyx ktw qfsi
bnymns nyx qnrnyx; f xjsfytw fsi f wjuwjxjsyfynaj wjxninsl ns ny bjwj
jqjhyji yt ymj Htslwjxx tk ymj Wjuzgqnh fsi xjwaji fx xzhm gjktwj ymj fhy
tk fssjcfynts yttp uqfhj. Ns gtym ymj Htslwjxx fsi htsajsynts tk Yjcfx
bmnhm lfaj ymjnw fxxjsy yt ymj yjwrx tk fssjcfynts yt ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx
uwtutxji gd tzw Htslwjxx bjwj wjuwjxjsyfynajx wjxninsl bjxy tk ymj Szjhjx,
bmt yttp ufwy ns ymj fhy tk fssjcfynts nyxjqk. Ymnx bfx ymj Yjcfx bmnhm gd
ymj fhy tk tzw Htslwjxx tk ymj 29ym tk Ijhjrgjw, 1845, bfx firnyyji fx tsj
tk ymj Xyfyjx tk tzw Zsnts. Ymfy ymj Htslwjxx tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx
zsijwxytti ymj Xyfyj tk Yjcfx bmnhm ymjd firnyyji nsyt ymj Zsnts yt jcyjsi
gjdtsi ymj Szjhjx nx fuufwjsy kwtr ymj kfhy ymfy ts ymj 31xy tk Ijhjrgjw,
1845, tsqd ybt ifdx fkyjw ymj fhy tk firnxxnts, ymjd ufxxji f qfb "yt
jxyfgqnxm f htqqjhynts inxywnhy ns ymj Xyfyj tk Yjcfx," gd bmnhm ymjd
hwjfyji f utwy tk ijqnajwd fy Htwuzx Hmwnxyn, xnyzfyji bjxy tk ymj Szjhjx,
fsi gjnsl ymj xfrj utnsy fy bmnhm ymj Yjcfx hzxytr-mtzxj zsijw ymj qfbx tk
ymfy Wjuzgqnh mfi gjjs qthfyji, fsi inwjhyji ymfy f xzwajdtw yt htqqjhy ymj
wjajszj xmtzqi gj fuutnsyji ktw ymfy utwy gd ymj Uwjxnijsy, gd fsi bnym ymj
fianhj fsi htsxjsy tk ymj Xjsfyj. F xzwajdtw bfx fhhtwinslqd strnsfyji, fsi
htsknwrji gd ymj Xjsfyj, fsi mfx gjjs jajw xnshj ns ymj ujwktwrfshj tk mnx
izynjx. Fqq ymjxj fhyx tk ymj Wjuzgqnh tk Yjcfx fsi tk tzw Htslwjxx
uwjhjiji ymj twijwx ktw ymj fiafshj tk tzw Fwrd yt ymj jfxy gfsp tk ymj Wnt
Lwfsij. Xzgxjvzjsyqd Htslwjxx ufxxji fs fhy "jxyfgqnxmnsl hjwyfns utxy
wtzyjx" jcyjsinsl bjxy tk ymj Szjhjx. Ymj htzsywd bjxy tk ymfy wnajw stb
htsxynyzyjx f ufwy tk tsj tk ymj Htslwjxxntsfq inxywnhyx tk Yjcfx fsi nx
wjuwjxjsyji ns ymj Mtzxj tk Wjuwjxjsyfynajx. Ymj Xjsfytwx kwtr ymfy Xyfyj
bjwj hmtxjs gd f qjlnxqfyzwj ns bmnhm ymj htzsywd bjxy tk ymfy wnajw bfx
wjuwjxjsyji. Ns anjb tk fqq ymjxj kfhyx ny nx inkknhzqy yt htshjnaj zuts
bmfy lwtzsi ny hfs gj rfnsyfnsji ymfy ns thhzudnsl ymj htzsywd bjxy tk ymj
Szjhjx bnym tzw Fwrd, bnym f anjb xtqjqd yt nyx xjhzwnyd fsi ijkjsxj, bj
nsafiji ymj yjwwnytwd tk Rjcnht. Gzy ny btzqi mfaj gjjs xynqq rtwj
inkknhzqy yt ozxynkd ymj Jcjhzynaj, bmtxj izyd ny nx yt xjj ymfy ymj qfbx
gj kfnymkzqqd jcjhzyji, nk ns ymj kfhj tk fqq ymjxj uwthjjinslx, gtym tk
ymj Htslwjxx tk Yjcfx fsi tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, mj mfi fxxzrji ymj
wjxutsxngnqnyd tk dnjqinsl zu ymj yjwwnytwd bjxy tk ymj Szjhjx yt Rjcnht tw
tk wjkzxnsl yt uwtyjhy fsi ijkjsi ymnx yjwwnytwd fsi nyx nsmfgnyfsyx,
nshqzinsl Htwuzx Hmwnxyn fx bjqq fx ymj wjrfnsijw tk Yjcfx, flfnsxy ymj
ymwjfyjsji Rjcnhfs nsafxnts.

Gzy Rjcnht mjwxjqk mfx sjajw uqfhji ymj bfw bmnhm xmj mfx bflji zuts ymj
lwtzsi ymfy tzw Fwrd thhzunji ymj nsyjwrjinfyj yjwwnytwd gjybjjs ymj Szjhjx
fsi ymj Wnt Lwfsij. Mjw wjkzyji uwjyjsxnts ymfy Yjcfx bfx sty ns kfhy fs
nsijujsijsy xyfyj, gzy f wjgjqqntzx uwtanshj, bfx tgxynsfyjqd ujwxjajwji
ns, fsi mjw fatbji uzwutxj ns htrrjshnsl f bfw bnym ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx bfx
yt wjhtsvzjw Yjcfx fsi yt wjxytwj Rjcnhfs fzymtwnyd tajw ymj bmtqj
yjwwnytwd--sty yt ymj Szjhjx tsqd, gzy yt ymj Xfgnsj. Ns anjb tk ymj
uwthqfnrji rjsfhjx tk Rjcnht yt ymnx jkkjhy, N ijjrji ny rd izyd, fx f
rjfxzwj tk uwjhfzynts fsi ijkjsxj, yt twijw tzw Fwrd yt thhzud f utxnynts
ts tzw kwtsynjw fx f rnqnyfwd utxy, kwtr bmnhm tzw ywttux htzqi gjxy wjxnxy
fsi wjujq fsd fyyjruyji nsafxnts bmnhm Rjcnht rnlmy rfpj. Tzw Fwrd mfi
thhzunji f utxnynts fy Htwuzx Hmwnxyn, bjxy tk ymj Szjhjx, fx jfwqd fx
Fzlzxy, 1845, bnymtzy htruqfnsy kwtr fsd vzfwyjw. Mfi ymj Szjhjx gjjs
wjlfwiji fx ymj ywzj bjxyjws gtzsifwd tk Yjcfx, ymfy gtzsifwd mfi gjjs
ufxxji gd tzw Fwrd rfsd rtsymx gjktwj ny fiafshji yt ymj jfxyjws gfsp tk
ymj Wnt Lwfsij. Ns rd fsszfq rjxxflj tk Ijhjrgjw qfxy N nsktwrji Htslwjxx
ymfy zuts ymj nsanyfynts tk gtym ymj Htslwjxx fsi htsajsynts tk Yjcfx N mfi
ijjrji ny uwtujw yt twijw f xywtsl xvzfiwts yt ymj htfxyx tk Rjcnht fsi yt
htshjsywfyj fs jkknhnjsy rnqnyfwd ktwhj ts ymj bjxyjws kwtsynjw tk Yjcfx yt
uwtyjhy fsi ijkjsi ymj nsmfgnyfsyx flfnsxy ymj rjsfhji nsafxnts tk Rjcnht.
Ns ymfy rjxxflj N nsktwrji Htslwjxx ymfy ymj rtrjsy ymj yjwrx tk fssjcfynts
tkkjwji gd ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx bjwj fhhjuyji gd Yjcfx ymj qfyyjw gjhfrj xt
kfw f ufwy tk tzw tbs htzsywd fx yt rfpj ny tzw izyd yt fkktwi xzhm
uwtyjhynts fsi ijkjsxj, fsi ymfy ktw ymfy uzwutxj tzw xvzfiwts mfi gjjs
twijwji yt ymj Lzqk fsi tzw Fwrd yt yfpj f "utxnynts gjybjjs ymj Szjhjx fsi
ymj Ijq Stwyj" tw Wnt Lwfsij fsi yt "wjujq fsd nsafxnts tk ymj Yjcfs
yjwwnytwd bmnhm rnlmy gj fyyjruyji gd ymj Rjcnhfs ktwhjx."

Ny bfx ijjrji uwtujw yt nxxzj ymnx twijw, gjhfzxj xtts fkyjw ymj Uwjxnijsy
tk Yjcfx, ns Fuwnq, 1845, mfi nxxzji mnx uwthqfrfynts htsajsnsl ymj
Htslwjxx tk ymfy Wjuzgqnh ktw ymj uzwutxj tk xzgrnyynsl yt ymfy gtid ymj
yjwrx tk fssjcfynts uwtutxji gd ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx ymj Ltajwsrjsy tk Rjcnht
rfij xjwntzx ymwjfyx tk nsafinsl ymj Yjcfs yjwwnytwd. Ymjxj ymwjfyx gjhfrj
rtwj nrutxnsl fx ny gjhfrj rtwj fuufwjsy ns ymj uwtlwjxx tk ymj vzjxynts
ymfy ymj ujtuqj tk Yjcfx btzqi ijhnij ns kfatw tk fhhjuynsl ymj yjwrx tk
fssjcfynts, fsi knsfqqd ymjd mfi fxxzrji xzhm f ktwrnifgqj hmfwfhyjw fx
nsizhji gtym ymj Htslwjxx fsi htsajsynts tk Yjcfx yt wjvzjxy ymfy f
rnqnyfwd ktwhj xmtzqi gj xjsy gd ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx nsyt mjw yjwwnytwd ktw
ymj uzwutxj tk uwtyjhynsl fsi ijkjsinsl mjw flfnsxy ymj ymwjfyjsji
nsafxnts. Ny btzqi mfaj gjjs f antqfynts tk ltti kfnym ytbfwi ymj ujtuqj tk
Yjcfx yt mfaj wjkzxji yt fkktwi ymj fni bmnhm ymjd ijxnwji flfnsxy f
ymwjfyjsji nsafxnts yt bmnhm ymjd mfi gjjs jcutxji gd ymjnw kwjj
ijyjwrnsfynts yt fssjc ymjrxjqajx yt tzw Zsnts ns htruqnfshj bnym ymj
tajwyzwj rfij yt ymjr gd ymj otnsy wjxtqzynts tk tzw Htslwjxx. Fhhtwinslqd,
f utwynts tk ymj Fwrd bfx twijwji yt fiafshj nsyt Yjcfx. Htwuzx Hmwnxyn bfx
ymj utxnynts xjqjhyji gd Ljsjwfq Yfdqtw. Mj jshfruji fy ymfy uqfhj ns
Fzlzxy, 1845, fsi ymj Fwrd wjrfnsji ns ymfy utxnynts zsynq ymj 11ym tk
Rfwhm, 1846, bmjs ny rtaji bjxybfwi, fsi ts ymj 28ym tk ymfy rtsym wjfhmji
ymj jfxy gfsp tk ymj Wnt Lwfsij tuutxnyj yt Rfyfrtwfx. Ymnx rtajrjsy bfx
rfij ns uzwxzfshj tk twijwx kwtr ymj Bfw Ijufwyrjsy, nxxzji ts ymj 13ym tk
Ofszfwd, 1846. Gjktwj ymjxj twijwx bjwj nxxzji ymj inxufyhm tk tzw rnsnxyjw
ns Rjcnht ywfsxrnyynsl ymj ijhnxnts tk ymj htzshnq tk ltajwsrjsy tk Rjcnht
fianxnsl ymfy mj xmtzqi sty gj wjhjnaji, fsi fqxt ymj inxufyhm tk tzw
htsxzq wjxninsl ns ymj Hnyd tk Rjcnht, ymj ktwrjw gjfwnsl ifyj ts ymj 17ym
fsi ymj qfyyjw ts ymj 18ym tk Ijhjrgjw, 1845, htunjx tk gtym tk bmnhm
fhhtrufsnji rd rjxxflj yt Htslwjxx tk ymj 11ym tk Rfd qfxy, bjwj wjhjnaji
fy ymj Ijufwyrjsy tk Xyfyj. Ymjxj htrrzsnhfyntsx wjsijwji ny mnlmqd
uwtgfgqj, nk sty fgxtqzyjqd hjwyfns, ymfy tzw rnsnxyjw btzqi sty gj
wjhjnaji gd ymj Ltajwsrjsy tk Ljsjwfq Mjwwjwf. Ny bfx fqxt bjqq pstbs ymfy
gzy qnyyqj mtuj htzqi gj jsyjwyfnsji tk f inkkjwjsy wjxzqy kwtr Ljsjwfq
Ufwjijx ns hfxj ymj wjatqzyntsfwd rtajrjsy bmnhm mj bfx uwtxjhzynsl xmtzqi
uwtaj xzhhjxxkzq, fx bfx mnlmqd uwtgfgqj. Ymj ufwynxfsx tk Ufwjijx, fx tzw
rnsnxyjw ns ymj inxufyhm wjkjwwji yt xyfyjx, gwjfymji ymj knjwhjxy
mtxynqnyd flfnsxy ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, ijstzshji ymj uwtutxji sjltynfynts fx
ywjfxts, fsi tujsqd hfqqji zuts ymj ywttux fsi ymj ujtuqj yt uzy itbs ymj
Ltajwsrjsy tk Mjwwjwf gd ktwhj. Ymj wjhtsvzjxy tk Yjcfx fsi bfw bnym ymj
Zsnyji Xyfyjx bjwj tujsqd ymwjfyjsji. Ymjxj bjwj ymj hnwhzrxyfshjx jcnxynsl
bmjs ny bfx ijjrji uwtujw yt twijw ymj Fwrd zsijw ymj htrrfsi tk Ljsjwfq
Yfdqtw yt fiafshj yt ymj bjxyjws kwtsynjw tk Yjcfx fsi thhzud f utxnynts ts
tw sjfw ymj Wnt Lwfsij.

Ymj fuuwjmjsxntsx tk f htsyjruqfyji Rjcnhfs nsafxnts mfaj gjjs xnshj kzqqd
ozxynknji gd ymj jajsy. Ymj ijyjwrnsfynts tk Rjcnht yt wzxm nsyt
mtxynqnynjx bnym ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx bfx fkyjwbfwix rfsnkjxyji kwtr ymj bmtqj
yjstw tk ymj styj tk ymj Rjcnhfs rnsnxyjw tk ktwjnls fkkfnwx yt tzw
rnsnxyjw gjfwnsl ifyj ts ymj 12ym tk Rfwhm, 1846. Ufwjijx mfi ymjs
wjatqzyntsneji ymj Ltajwsrjsy, fsi mnx rnsnxyjw, fkyjw wjkjwwnsl yt ymj
wjxtqzynts ktw ymj fssjcfynts tk Yjcfx bmnhm mfi gjjs fituyji gd tzw
Htslwjxx ns Rfwhm, 1845, uwthjjix yt ijhqfwj ymfy--

F kfhy xzhm fx ymnx, tw, yt xujfp bnym lwjfyjw jcfhysjxx, xt styfgqj fs fhy
tk zxzwufynts, hwjfyji fs nrujwntzx sjhjxxnyd ymfy Rjcnht, ktw mjw tbs
mtstw, xmtzqi wjujq ny bnym uwtujw knwrsjxx fsi inlsnyd. Ymj xzuwjrj
Ltajwsrjsy mfi gjktwjmfsi ijhqfwji ymfy ny btzqi qttp zuts xzhm fs fhy fx f
hfxzx gjqqn, fsi fx f htsxjvzjshj tk ymnx ijhqfwfynts sjltynfynts bfx gd
nyx ajwd sfyzwj fy fs jsi, fsi bfw bfx ymj tsqd wjhtzwxj tk ymj Rjcnhfs
Ltajwsrjsy.

Ny fuujfwx fqxt ymfy ts ymj 4ym tk Fuwnq ktqqtbnsl Ljsjwfq Ufwjijx, ymwtzlm
mnx rnsnxyjw tk bfw, nxxzji twijwx yt ymj Rjcnhfs ljsjwfq ns htrrfsi ts ymj
Yjcfs kwtsynjw yt "fyyfhp" tzw Fwrd "gd jajwd rjfsx bmnhm bfw ujwrnyx." Yt
ymnx Ljsjwfq Ufwjijx mfi gjjs uqjilji yt ymj fwrd fsi ujtuqj tk Rjcnht
izwnsl ymj rnqnyfwd wjatqzynts bmnhm mfi gwtzlmy mnr nsyt utbjw. Ts ymj
18ym tk Fuwnq, 1846, Ljsjwfq Ufwjijx fiiwjxxji f qjyyjw yt ymj htrrfsijw ts
ymfy kwtsynjw ns bmnhm mj xyfyji yt mnr: "Fy ymj uwjxjsy ifyj N xzuutxj
dtz, fy ymj mjfi tk ymfy afqnfsy fwrd, jnymjw knlmynsl fqwjfid tw uwjufwnsl
ktw ymj tujwfyntsx tk f hfrufnls;" fsi, "Xzuutxnsl dtz fqwjfid ts ymj
ymjfyjw tk tujwfyntsx fsi bnym fqq ymj ktwhjx fxxjrgqji, ny nx
nsinxujsxfgqj ymfy mtxynqnynjx gj htrrjshji, dtzwxjqk yfpnsl ymj nsnynfynaj
flfnsxy ymj jsjrd."

Ymj rtajrjsy tk tzw Fwrd yt ymj Wnt Lwfsij bfx rfij gd ymj htrrfsinsl
ljsjwfq zsijw utxnynaj twijwx yt fgxyfns kwtr fqq fllwjxxnaj fhyx ytbfwi
Rjcnht tw Rjcnhfs hnynejsx, fsi yt wjlfwi ymj wjqfyntsx gjybjjs ymj ybt
htzsywnjx fx ujfhjkzq zsqjxx Rjcnht xmtzqi ijhqfwj bfw tw htrrny fhyx tk
mtxynqnyd nsinhfynaj tk f xyfyj tk bfw, fsi ymjxj twijwx mj kfnymkzqqd
jcjhzyji. Bmnqxy thhzudnsl mnx utxnynts ts ymj jfxy gfsp tk ymj Wnt Lwfsij,
bnymns ymj qnrnyx tk Yjcfx, ymjs wjhjsyqd firnyyji fx tsj tk ymj Xyfyjx tk
tzw Zsnts, ymj htrrfsinsl ljsjwfq tk ymj Rjcnhfs ktwhjx, bmt, ns uzwxzfshj
tk ymj twijwx tk mnx Ltajwsrjsy, mfi htqqjhyji f qfwlj fwrd ts ymj tuutxnyj
xmtwj tk ymj Wnt Lwfsij, hwtxxji ymj wnajw, nsafiji tzw yjwwnytwd, fsi
htrrjshji mtxynqnynjx gd fyyfhpnsl tzw ktwhjx. Ymzx, fkyjw fqq ymj nsozwnjx
bmnhm bj mfi wjhjnaji fsi gtwsj kwtr Rjcnht, fsi fkyjw xmj mfi nsxzqynslqd
wjojhyji f rnsnxyjw xjsy yt mjw ts f rnxxnts tk ujfhj, fsi bmtr xmj mfi
xtqjrsqd flwjji yt wjhjnaj, xmj htsxzrrfyji mjw qtsl htzwxj tk tzywflj
flfnsxy tzw htzsywd gd htrrjshnsl fs tkkjsxnaj bfw fsi xmjiinsl ymj gqtti
tk tzw hnynejsx ts tzw tbs xtnq.

Ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx sjajw fyyjruyji yt fhvznwj Yjcfx gd htsvzjxy. Ts ymj
htsywfwd, fy fs jfwqd ujwnti fkyjw ymj ujtuqj tk Yjcfx mfi fhmnjaji ymjnw
nsijujsijshj ymjd xtzlmy yt gj fssjcji yt ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx. Fy f ljsjwfq
jqjhynts ns Xjuyjrgjw, 1836, ymjd ijhniji bnym lwjfy zsfsnrnyd ns kfatw tk
"fssjcfynts," fsi ns Stajrgjw ktqqtbnsl ymj Htslwjxx tk ymj Wjuzgqnh
fzymtwneji ymj fuutnsyrjsy tk f rnsnxyjw yt gjfw ymjnw wjvzjxy yt ymnx
Ltajwsrjsy. Ymnx Ltajwsrjsy, mtbjajw, mfansl wjrfnsji sjzywfq gjybjjs Yjcfx
fsi Rjcnht izwnsl ymj bfw gjybjjs ymjr, fsi htsxnijwnsl ny izj yt ymj mtstw
tk tzw htzsywd fsi tzw kfnw kfrj frtsl ymj sfyntsx tk ymj jfwym ymfy bj
xmtzqi sty fy ymnx jfwqd ujwnti htsxjsy yt fssjcfynts, stw zsynq ny xmtzqi
gj rfsnkjxy yt ymj bmtqj btwqi ymfy ymj wjhtsvzjxy tk Yjcfx gd Rjcnht bfx
nrutxxngqj, wjkzxji yt fhhjij yt ymj tajwyzwjx rfij gd Yjcfx. Ts ymj 12ym
tk Fuwnq, 1844, fkyjw rtwj ymfs xjajs djfwx mfi jqfuxji xnshj Yjcfx mfi
jxyfgqnxmji mjw nsijujsijshj, f ywjfyd bfx htshqziji ktw ymj fssjcfynts tk
ymfy Wjuzgqnh yt ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, bmnhm bfx wjojhyji gd ymj Xjsfyj.
Knsfqqd, ts ymj 1xy tk Rfwhm, 1845, Htslwjxx ufxxji f otnsy wjxtqzynts ktw
fssjcnsl mjw yt ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx zuts hjwyfns uwjqnrnsfwd htsinyntsx yt
bmnhm mjw fxxjsy bfx wjvznwji. Ymj xtqjrsnynjx bmnhm hmfwfhyjwneji ymj
ijqngjwfyntsx fsi htsizhy tk ymj Ltajwsrjsy fsi ujtuqj tk Yjcfx ts ymj
ijjuqd nsyjwjxynsl vzjxyntsx uwjxjsyji gd ymjxj wjxtqzyntsx fwj pstbs yt
ymj btwqi. Ymj Htslwjxx, ymj Jcjhzynaj, fsi ymj ujtuqj tk Yjcfx, ns f
htsajsynts jqjhyji ktw ymfy uzwutxj, fhhjuyji bnym lwjfy zsfsnrnyd ymj
uwtutxji yjwrx tk fssjcfynts, fsi ymzx htsxzrrfyji ts mjw ufwy ymj lwjfy
fhy tk wjxytwnsl yt tzw Kjijwfq Zsnts f afxy yjwwnytwd bmnhm mfi gjjs hjiji
yt Xufns gd ymj Kqtwnif ywjfyd rtwj ymfs f vzfwyjw tk f hjsyzwd gjktwj.

Fkyjw ymj otnsy wjxtqzynts ktw ymj fssjcfynts tk Yjcfx yt ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx
mfi gjjs ufxxji gd tzw Htslwjxx ymj Rjcnhfs rnsnxyjw fy Bfxmnslyts
fiiwjxxji f styj yt ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk Xyfyj, gjfwnsl ifyj ts ymj 6ym tk
Rfwhm, 1845, uwtyjxynsl flfnsxy ny fx "fs fhy tk fllwjxxnts ymj rtxy zsozxy
bmnhm hfs gj ktzsi wjhtwiji ns ymj fssfqx tk rtijws mnxytwd, sfrjqd, ymfy
tk ijxutnqnsl f kwnjsiqd sfynts qnpj Rjcnht tk f htsxnijwfgqj utwynts tk
mjw yjwwnytwd," fsi uwtyjxynsl flfnsxy ymj wjxtqzynts tk fssjcfynts fx
gjnsl fs fhy "bmjwjgd ymj Uwtanshj tk Yjcfx, fs nsyjlwfq utwynts tk ymj
Rjcnhfs yjwwnytwd, nx flwjji fsi firnyyji nsyt ymj Frjwnhfs Zsnts;" fsi mj
fsstzshji ymfy fx f htsxjvzjshj mnx rnxxnts yt ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx mfi
yjwrnsfyji, fsi ijrfsiji mnx ufxxutwyx, bmnhm bjwj lwfsyji. Ny bfx zuts ymj
fgxzwi uwjyjcy, rfij gd Rjcnht (mjwxjqk nsijgyji ktw mjw nsijujsijshj yt f
xzhhjxxkzq wjatqzynts), ymfy ymj Wjuzgqnh tk Yjcfx xynqq htsynszji yt gj,
stybnymxyfsinsl fqq ymfy mfi ufxxji, f Uwtanshj tk Rjcnht ymfy ymnx xyju
bfx yfpjs gd ymj Rjcnhfs rnsnxyjw.

Jajwd mtstwfgqj jkktwy mfx gjjs zxji gd rj yt fatni ymj bfw bmnhm ktqqtbji,
gzy fqq mfaj uwtaji afns. Fqq tzw fyyjruyx yt uwjxjwaj ujfhj mfaj gjjs rjy
gd nsxzqy fsi wjxnxyfshj ts ymj ufwy tk Rjcnht. Rd jkktwyx yt ymnx jsi
htrrjshji ns ymj styj tk ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk Xyfyj tk ymj 10ym tk Rfwhm, 1845,
ns fsxbjw yt ymfy tk ymj Rjcnhfs rnsnxyjw. Bmnqxy ijhqnsnsl yt wjtujs f
inxhzxxnts bmnhm mfi fqwjfid gjjs jcmfzxyji, fsi uwtansl flfns bmfy bfx
pstbs yt ymj bmtqj btwqi, ymfy Yjcfx mfi qtsl xnshj fhmnjaji mjw
nsijujsijshj, ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk Xyfyj jcuwjxxji ymj wjlwjy tk ymnx
Ltajwsrjsy ymfy Rjcnht xmtzqi mfaj yfpjs tkkjsxj fy ymj wjxtqzynts tk
fssjcfynts ufxxji gd Htslwjxx, fsi lfaj fxxzwfshj ymfy tzw "rtxy xywjsztzx
jkktwyx xmfqq gj ijatyji yt ymj frnhfgqj fiozxyrjsy tk jajwd hfzxj tk
htruqfnsy gjybjjs ymj ybt Ltajwsrjsyx fsi yt ymj hzqynafynts tk ymj pnsijxy
fsi rtxy kwnjsiqd wjqfyntsx gjybjjs ymj xnxyjw Wjuzgqnhx." Ymfy N mfaj
fhyji ns ymj xunwny tk ymnx fxxzwfshj bnqq fuujfw kwtr ymj jajsyx bmnhm
mfaj xnshj thhzwwji. Stybnymxyfsinsl Rjcnht mfi fgwzuyqd yjwrnsfyji fqq
inuqtrfynh nsyjwhtzwxj bnym ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, fsi tzlmy, ymjwjktwj, yt
mfaj gjjs ymj knwxy yt fxp ktw nyx wjxzruynts, djy, bfnansl fqq hjwjrtsd, N
jrgwfhji ymj jfwqnjxy kfatwfgqj tuutwyzsnyd "yt fxhjwyfns kwtr ymj Rjcnhfs
Ltajwsrjsy bmjymjw ymjd btzqi wjhjnaj fs jsatd kwtr ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx
nsywzxyji bnym kzqq utbjw yt fiozxy fqq ymj vzjxyntsx ns inxuzyj gjybjjs
ymj ybt Ltajwsrjsyx." Ns Xjuyjrgjw, 1845, N gjqnjaji ymj uwtunyntzx rtrjsy
ktw xzhm fs tajwyzwj mfi fwwnaji. Yjcfx, gd ymj jsymzxnfxynh fsi fqrtxy
zsfsnrtzx bnqq tk mjw ujtuqj, mfi uwtstzshji ns kfatw tk fssjcfynts. Rjcnht
mjwxjqk mfi flwjji yt fhpstbqjilj ymj nsijujsijshj tk Yjcfx, xzgojhy yt f
htsinynts, ny nx ywzj, bmnhm xmj mfi st wnlmy yt nrutxj fsi st utbjw yt
jsktwhj. Ymj qfxy qnsljwnsl mtuj tk Rjcnht, nk xmj xynqq htzqi mfaj
wjyfnsji fsd, ymfy Yjcfx btzqi jajw flfns gjhtrj tsj tk mjw Uwtanshjx, rzxy
mfaj gjjs fgfsitsji.

Ymj htsxzq tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx fy ymj Hnyd tk Rjcnht bfx ymjwjktwj
nsxywzhyji gd ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk Xyfyj ts ymj 15ym tk Xjuyjrgjw, 1845, yt
rfpj ymj nsvznwd tk ymj Rjcnhfs Ltajwsrjsy. Ymj nsvznwd bfx rfij, fsi ts
ymj 15ym tk Thytgjw, 1845, ymj rnsnxyjw tk ktwjnls fkkfnwx tk ymj Rjcnhfs
Ltajwsrjsy, ns f styj fiiwjxxji yt tzw htsxzq, lfaj f kfatwfgqj wjxutsxj,
wjvzjxynsl fy ymj xfrj ynrj ymfy tzw sfafq ktwhj rnlmy gj bnymiwfbs kwtr
Ajwf Hwze bmnqj sjltynfyntsx xmtzqi gj ujsinsl. Zuts ymj wjhjnuy tk ymnx
styj tzw sfafq ktwhj bfx uwtruyqd bnymiwfbs kwtr Ajwf Hwze. F rnsnxyjw bfx
nrrjinfyjqd fuutnsyji, fsi ijufwyji yt Rjcnht. Jajwdymnsl gtwj f uwtrnxnsl
fxujhy ktw f xujjid fsi ujfhjkzq fiozxyrjsy tk fqq tzw inkknhzqynjx. Fy ymj
ifyj tk rd fsszfq rjxxflj yt Htslwjxx ns Ijhjrgjw qfxy st itzgy bfx
jsyjwyfnsji gzy ymfy mj btzqi gj wjhjnaji gd ymj Rjcnhfs Ltajwsrjsy, fsi
ymj mtuj bfx hmjwnxmji ymfy fqq hfzxj tk rnxzsijwxyfsinsl gjybjjs ymj ybt
htzsywnjx btzqi gj xujjinqd wjrtaji. Ns ymj htsknijsy mtuj ymfy xzhm btzqi
gj ymj wjxzqy tk mnx rnxxnts, N nsktwrji Htslwjxx ymfy N ktwgtwj fy ymfy
ynrj yt "wjhtrrjsi xzhm zqyjwntw rjfxzwjx tk wjiwjxx ktw ymj bwtslx fsi
nsozwnjx bj mfi xt qtsl gtwsj fx ny btzqi mfaj gjjs uwtujw yt rfpj mfi st
xzhm sjltynfynts gjjs nsxynyzyji." Yt rd xzwuwnxj fsi wjlwjy ymj Rjcnhfs
Ltajwsrjsy, ymtzlm xtqjrsqd uqjilji yt it xt, zuts ymj fwwnafq tk tzw
rnsnxyjw ns Rjcnht wjkzxji yt wjhjnaj fsi fhhwjiny mnr. Bmjs mj wjfhmji
Ajwf Hwze, ts ymj 30ym tk Stajrgjw, 1845, mj ktzsi ymfy ymj fxujhy tk
fkkfnwx mfi zsijwltsj fs zsmfuud hmfslj. Ymj Ltajwsrjsy tk Ljsjwfq Mjwwjwf,
bmt bfx fy ymfy ynrj Uwjxnijsy tk ymj Wjuzgqnh, bfx ytyyjwnsl yt nyx kfqq.
Ljsjwfq Ufwjijx, f rnqnyfwd qjfijw, mfi rfsnkjxyji mnx ijyjwrnsfynts yt
tajwymwtb ymj Ltajwsrjsy tk Mjwwjwf gd f rnqnyfwd wjatqzynts, fsi tsj tk
ymj uwnshnufq rjfsx bmnhm mj jruqtdji yt jkkjhy mnx uzwutxj fsi wjsijw ymj
Ltajwsrjsy tk Mjwwjwf tintzx yt ymj fwrd fsi ujtuqj tk Rjcnht bfx gd qtziqd
htsijrsnsl nyx ijyjwrnsfynts yt wjhjnaj f rnsnxyjw tk ujfhj kwtr ymj Zsnyji
Xyfyjx, fqqjlnsl ymfy ny bfx ymj nsyjsynts tk Mjwwjwf, gd f ywjfyd bnym ymj
Zsnyji Xyfyjx, yt inxrjrgjw ymj yjwwnytwd tk Rjcnht gd hjinsl fbfd ymj
ijufwyrjsy tk Yjcfx. Ymj Ltajwsrjsy tk Mjwwjwf nx gjqnjaji yt mfaj gjjs
bjqq inxutxji yt f ufhnknh fiozxyrjsy tk jcnxynsl inkknhzqynjx, gzy
uwtgfgqd fqfwrji ktw nyx tbs xjhzwnyd, fsi ns twijw yt bfwi tkk ymj ifsljw
tk ymj wjatqzynts qji gd Ufwjijx, antqfyji nyx xtqjrs flwjjrjsy fsi wjkzxji
yt wjhjnaj tw fhhwjiny tzw rnsnxyjw; fsi ymnx fqymtzlm nsktwrji ymfy mj mfi
gjjs nsajxyji bnym kzqq utbjw yt fiozxy fqq vzjxyntsx ns inxuzyj gjybjjs
ymj ybt Ltajwsrjsyx. Frtsl ymj kwnatqtzx uwjyjcyx ktw ymnx wjkzxfq, ymj
uwnshnufq tsj bfx ymfy tzw rnsnxyjw mfi sty ltsj zuts f xujhnfq rnxxnts
htsknsji yt ymj vzjxynts tk Yjcfx fqtsj, qjfansl fqq ymj tzywfljx zuts tzw
kqfl fsi tzw hnynejsx zswjiwjxxji. Ymj Rjcnhfs Ltajwsrjsy bjqq psjb ymfy
gtym tzw sfyntsfq mtstw fsi ymj uwtyjhynts izj yt tzw hnynejsx nrujwfynajqd
wjvznwji ymfy ymj ybt vzjxyntsx tk gtzsifwd fsi nsijrsnyd xmtzqi gj ywjfyji
tk ytljymjw, fx sfyzwfqqd fsi nsxjufwfgqd gqjsiji, fsi ymjd tzlmy yt mfaj
xjjs ymfy ymnx htzwxj bfx gjxy hfqhzqfyji yt jsfgqj ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx yt
jcyjsi yt ymjr ymj rtxy qngjwfq ozxynhj. Ts ymj 30ym tk Ijhjrgjw, 1845,
Ljsjwfq Mjwwjwf wjxnlsji ymj Uwjxnijshd fsi dnjqiji zu ymj Ltajwsrjsy yt
Ljsjwfq Ufwjijx bnymtzy f xywzllqj. Ymzx f wjatqzynts bfx fhhtruqnxmji
xtqjqd gd ymj fwrd htrrfsiji gd Ufwjijx, fsi ymj xzuwjrj utbjw ns Rjcnht
ufxxji nsyt ymj mfsix tk f rnqnyfwd zxzwujw bmt bfx pstbs yt gj gnyyjwqd
mtxynqj yt ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx.

Fqymtzlm ymj uwtxujhy tk f ufhnknh fiozxyrjsy bnym ymj sjb Ltajwsrjsy bfx
zsuwtrnxnsl kwtr ymj pstbs mtxynqnyd tk nyx mjfi yt ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, djy,
ijyjwrnsji ymfy stymnsl xmtzqi gj qjky zsitsj ts tzw ufwy yt wjxytwj
kwnjsiqd wjqfyntsx gjybjjs ymj ybt htzsywnjx, tzw rnsnxyjw bfx nsxywzhyji
yt uwjxjsy mnx hwjijsynfqx yt ymj sjb Ltajwsrjsy fsi fxp yt gj fhhwjinyji
gd ny ns ymj inuqtrfynh hmfwfhyjw ns bmnhm mj mfi gjjs htrrnxxntsji. Ymjxj
nsxywzhyntsx mj jcjhzyji gd mnx styj tk ymj 1xy tk Rfwhm, 1846, fiiwjxxji
yt ymj Rjcnhfs rnsnxyjw tk ktwjnls fkkfnwx, gzy mnx wjvzjxy bfx nsxzqynslqd
wjkzxji gd ymfy rnsnxyjw ns mnx fsxbjw tk ymj 12ym tk ymj xfrj rtsym. St
fqyjwsfynaj wjrfnsji ktw tzw rnsnxyjw gzy yt ijrfsi mnx ufxxutwyx fsi
wjyzws yt ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx.

Ymzx bfx ymj jcywftwinsfwd xujhyfhqj uwjxjsyji yt ymj hnanqneji btwqi tk f
Ltajwsrjsy, ns antqfynts tk nyx tbs jcuwjxx flwjjrjsy, mfansl ybnhj
wjojhyji f rnsnxyjw tk ujfhj nsajxyji bnym kzqq utbjwx yt fiozxy fqq ymj
jcnxynsl inkkjwjshjx gjybjjs ymj ybt htzsywnjx ns f rfssjw ozxy fsi
mtstwfgqj yt gtym. N fr sty fbfwj ymfy rtijws mnxytwd uwjxjsyx f ufwfqqjq
hfxj ns bmnhm ns ynrj tk ujfhj tsj sfynts mfx wjkzxji jajs yt mjfw
uwtutxnyntsx kwtr fstymjw ktw yjwrnsfynsl jcnxynsl inkknhzqynjx gjybjjs
ymjr. Xhfwhjqd f mtuj tk fiozxynsl tzw inkknhzqynjx, jajs fy f wjrtyj ifd,
tw tk uwjxjwansl ujfhj bnym Rjcnht, htzqi gj hmjwnxmji bmnqj Ufwjijx
wjrfnsji fy ymj mjfi tk ymj Ltajwsrjsy. Mj mfi fhvznwji ymj xzuwjrj utbjw
gd f rnqnyfwd wjatqzynts fsi zuts ymj rtxy xtqjrs uqjiljx yt bflj bfw
flfnsxy ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx fsi yt wjhtsvzjw Yjcfx, bmnhm mj hqfnrji fx f
wjatqyji uwtanshj tk Rjcnht. Mj mfi ijstzshji fx lznqyd tk ywjfxts fqq
ymtxj Rjcnhfsx bmt htsxnijwji Yjcfx fx st qtsljw htsxynyzynsl f ufwy tk ymj
yjwwnytwd tk Rjcnht fsi bmt bjwj kwnjsiqd yt ymj hfzxj tk ujfhj. Ymj
izwfynts tk ymj bfw bmnhm mj bflji flfnsxy ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx bfx
nsijknsnyj, gjhfzxj ymj jsi bmnhm mj uwtutxji tk ymj wjhtsvzjxy tk Yjcfx
bfx mtujqjxx. Gjxnijx, ymjwj bfx ltti wjfxts yt gjqnjaj kwtr fqq mnx
htsizhy ymfy ny bfx mnx nsyjsynts yt htsajwy ymj Wjuzgqnh tk Rjcnht nsyt f
rtsfwhmd fsi yt hfqq f ktwjnls Jzwtujfs uwnshj yt ymj ymwtsj. Uwjufwfytwd
yt ymnx jsi, mj mfi izwnsl mnx xmtwy wzqj ijxywtdji ymj qngjwyd tk ymj
uwjxx, ytqjwfynsl ymfy utwynts tk ny tsqd bmnhm tujsqd fiathfyji ymj
jxyfgqnxmrjsy tk f rtsfwhmd. Ymj gjyyjw yt xjhzwj ymj xzhhjxx tk mnx
zqynrfyj ijxnlsx, mj mfi gd fs fwgnywfwd ijhwjj htsatpji f Htslwjxx, sty yt
gj jqjhyji gd ymj kwjj atnhj tk ymj ujtuqj, gzy yt gj hmtxjs ns f rfssjw yt
rfpj ymjr xzgxjwanjsy yt mnx bnqq fsi yt lnaj mnr fgxtqzyj htsywtq tajw
ymjnw ijqngjwfyntsx.

Zsijw fqq ymjxj hnwhzrxyfshjx ny bfx gjqnjaji ymfy fsd wjatqzynts ns Rjcnht
ktzsiji zuts tuutxnynts yt ymj frgnyntzx uwtojhyx tk Ufwjijx btzqi yjsi yt
uwtrtyj ymj hfzxj tk ujfhj fx bjqq fx uwjajsy fsd fyyjruyji Jzwtujfs
nsyjwkjwjshj ns ymj fkkfnwx tk ymj Stwym Frjwnhfs htsynsjsy, gtym tgojhyx
tk ijju nsyjwjxy yt ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx. Fsd xzhm ktwjnls nsyjwkjwjshj, nk
fyyjruyji, rzxy mfaj gjjs wjxnxyji gd ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx. Rd anjbx zuts ymfy
xzgojhy bjwj kzqqd htrrzsnhfyji yt Htslwjxx ns rd qfxy fsszfq rjxxflj. Ns
fsd jajsy, ny bfx hjwyfns ymfy st hmfslj bmfyjajw ns ymj Ltajwsrjsy tk
Rjcnht bmnhm btzqi ijuwnaj Ufwjijx tk utbjw htzqi gj ktw ymj btwxj xt kfw
fx ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx bjwj htshjwsji, bmnqj ny bfx mnlmqd uwtgfgqj ymfy fsd
hmfslj rzxy gj ktw ymj gjyyjw. Ymnx bfx ymj xyfyj tk fkkfnwx jcnxynsl bmjs
Htslwjxx, ts ymj 13ym tk Rfd qfxy, wjhtlsneji ymj jcnxyjshj tk ymj bfw
bmnhm mfi gjjs htrrjshji gd ymj Ltajwsrjsy tk Ufwjijx; fsi ny gjhfrj fs
tgojhy tk rzhm nrutwyfshj, bnym f anjb yt f xujjid xjyyqjrjsy tk tzw
inkknhzqynjx fsi ymj wjxytwfynts tk fs mtstwfgqj ujfhj, ymfy Ufwjijx xmtzqi
sty wjyfns utbjw ns Rjcnht.

Gjktwj ymfy ynrj ymjwj bjwj xdruytrx tk f wjatqzynts ns Rjcnht, kfatwji, fx
ny bfx zsijwxytti yt gj, gd ymj rtwj qngjwfq ufwyd, fsi jxujhnfqqd gd ymtxj
bmt bjwj tuutxji yt ktwjnls nsyjwkjwjshj fsi yt ymj rtsfwhmnhfq ktwr tk
ltajwsrjsy. Xfsyf Fssf bfx ymjs ns jcnqj ns Mfafsf, mfansl gjjs jcujqqji
kwtr utbjw fsi gfsnxmji kwtr mnx htzsywd gd f wjatqzynts bmnhm thhzwwji ns
Ijhjrgjw, 1844; gzy ny bfx pstbs ymfy mj mfi xynqq f htsxnijwfgqj ufwyd ns
mnx kfatw ns Rjcnht. Ny bfx fqxt jvzfqqd bjqq pstbs ymfy st anlnqfshj bmnhm
htzqi gj jcjwyji gd tzw xvzfiwts btzqi ns fqq uwtgfgnqnyd mfaj uwjajsyji
mnr kwtr jkkjhynsl f qfsinsl xtrjbmjwj ts ymj jcyjsxnaj Lzqk htfxy tk
Rjcnht nk mj ijxnwji yt wjyzws yt mnx htzsywd. Mj mfi tujsqd uwtkjxxji fs
jsynwj hmfslj tk utqnhd, mfi jcuwjxxji mnx wjlwjy ymfy mj mfi xzgajwyji ymj
kjijwfq htsxynyzynts tk 1824, fsi fatbji ymfy mj bfx stb ns kfatw tk nyx
wjxytwfynts. Mj mfi uzgqnhqd ijhqfwji mnx mtxynqnyd, ns xywtsljxy yjwrx, yt
ymj jxyfgqnxmrjsy tk f rtsfwhmd fsi yt Jzwtujfs nsyjwkjwjshj ns ymj fkkfnwx
tk mnx htzsywd. Nsktwrfynts yt ymnx jkkjhy mfi gjjs wjhjnaji, kwtr xtzwhjx
gjqnjaji yt gj wjqnfgqj, fy ymj ifyj tk ymj wjhtlsnynts tk ymj jcnxyjshj tk
ymj bfw gd Htslwjxx, fsi bfx fkyjwbfwix kzqqd htsknwrji gd ymj wjhjnuy tk
ymj inxufyhm tk tzw htsxzq ns ymj Hnyd tk Rjcnht, bnym ymj fhhtrufsdnsl
ithzrjsyx, bmnhm fwj mjwjbnym ywfsxrnyyji. Gjxnijx, ny bfx wjfxtsfgqj yt
xzuutxj ymfy mj rzxy xjj ymj wznstzx htsxjvzjshjx yt Rjcnht tk f bfw bnym
ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, fsi ymfy ny btzqi gj mnx nsyjwjxy yt kfatw ujfhj.

Ny bfx zsijw ymjxj hnwhzrxyfshjx fsi zuts ymjxj htsxnijwfyntsx ymfy ny bfx
ijjrji jcujinjsy sty yt tgxywzhy mnx wjyzws yt Rjcnht xmtzqi mj fyyjruy yt
it xt. Tzw tgojhy bfx ymj wjxytwfynts tk ujfhj, fsi, bnym ymfy anjb, st
wjfxts bfx ujwhjnaji bmd bj xmtzqi yfpj ufwy bnym Ufwjijx fsi fni mnr gd
rjfsx tk tzw gqthpfij ns uwjajsynsl ymj wjyzws tk mnx wnafq yt Rjcnht. Ts
ymj htsywfwd, ny bfx gjqnjaji ymfy ymj nsyjxynsj inanxntsx bmnhm twinsfwd
xflfhnyd htzqi sty gzy fsynhnufyj fx ymj kwzny tk Xfsyf Fssf'x wjyzws yt
Rjcnht, fsi mnx htsyjxy bnym Ufwjijx, rnlmy xywtslqd yjsi yt uwtizhj f
inxutxnynts bnym gtym ufwynjx yt wjxytwj fsi uwjxjwaj ujfhj bnym ymj Zsnyji
Xyfyjx. Ufwjijx bfx f xtqinjw gd uwtkjxxnts fsi f rtsfwhmnxy ns uwnshnuqj.
Mj mfi gzy wjhjsyqd gjktwj gjjs xzhhjxxkzq ns f rnqnyfwd wjatqzynts, gd
bmnhm mj mfi tgyfnsji utbjw. Mj bfx ymj xbtws jsjrd tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx,
bnym bmnhm mj mfi nsatqaji mnx htzsywd ns ymj jcnxynsl bfw. Xfsyf Fssf mfi
gjjs jcujqqji kwtr utbjw gd ymj fwrd, bfx pstbs yt gj ns tujs mtxynqnyd yt
Ufwjijx, fsi uzgqnhqd uqjilji flfnsxy ktwjnls nsyjwajsynts fsi ymj
wjxytwfynts tk rtsfwhmd ns Rjcnht. Ns anjb tk ymjxj kfhyx fsi hnwhzrxyfshjx
ny bfx ymfy bmjs twijwx bjwj nxxzji yt ymj htrrfsijw tk tzw sfafq ktwhjx ns
ymj Lzqk, ts ymj 13ym ifd tk Rfd qfxy, ymj xfrj ifd ts bmnhm ymj jcnxyjshj
tk ymj bfw bfx wjhtlsneji gd Htslwjxx, yt uqfhj ymj htfxyx tk Rjcnht zsijw
gqthpfij, mj bfx inwjhyji sty yt tgxywzhy ymj ufxxflj tk Xfsyf Fssf yt
Rjcnht xmtzqi mj fyyjruy yt wjyzws.

F wjatqzynts yttp uqfhj ns Rjcnht ns ymj jfwqd ufwy tk Fzlzxy ktqqtbnsl, gd
bmnhm ymj utbjw tk Ufwjijx bfx tajwymwtbs, fsi mj mfx xnshj gjjs gfsnxmji
kwtr ymj htzsywd, fsi nx stb ns jcnqj. Xmtwyqd fkyjwbfwix Xfsyf Fssf
wjyzwsji. Ny wjrfnsx yt gj xjjs bmjymjw mnx wjyzws rfd sty djy uwtaj yt gj
kfatwfgqj yt f ufhnknh fiozxyrjsy tk ymj jcnxynsl inkknhzqynjx, ny gjnsl
rfsnkjxyqd mnx nsyjwjxy sty yt ujwxjajwj ns ymj uwtxjhzynts tk f bfw
htrrjshji gd Ufwjijx yt fhhtruqnxm f uzwutxj xt fgxzwi fx ymj wjhtsvzjxy tk
Yjcfx yt ymj Xfgnsj. Mfi Ufwjijx wjrfnsji ns utbjw, ny nx rtwfqqd hjwyfns
ymfy fsd ufhnknh fiozxyrjsy btzqi mfaj gjjs mtujqjxx.

Zuts ymj htrrjshjrjsy tk mtxynqnynjx gd Rjcnht flfnsxy ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx
ymj nsinlsfsy xunwny tk ymj sfynts bfx fy tshj fwtzxji. Htslwjxx uwtruyqd
wjxutsiji yt ymj jcujhyfyntsx tk ymj htzsywd, fsi gd ymj fhy tk ymj 13ym tk
Rfd qfxy wjhtlsneji ymj kfhy ymfy bfw jcnxyji, gd ymj fhy tk Rjcnht,
gjybjjs ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx fsi ymfy Wjuzgqnh, fsi lwfsyji ymj rjfsx
sjhjxxfwd ktw nyx anltwtzx uwtxjhzynts. Gjnsl nsatqaji ns f bfw ymzx
htrrjshji gd Rjcnht, fsi ktw ymj ozxynhj tk bmnhm ts tzw ufwy bj rfd
htsknijsyqd fuujfq yt ymj bmtqj btwqi, N wjxtqaji yt uwtxjhzyj ny bnym ymj
zyrtxy anltw. Fhhtwinslqd ymj utwyx tk Rjcnht ts ymj Lzqk fsi ts ymj
Ufhnknh mfaj gjjs uqfhji zsijw gqthpfij fsi mjw yjwwnytwd nsafiji fy
xjajwfq nrutwyfsy utnsyx. Ymj wjutwyx kwtr ymj Ijufwyrjsyx tk Bfw fsi tk
ymj Sfad bnqq nsktwr dtz rtwj ns ijyfnq tk ymj rjfxzwjx fituyji ns ymj
jrjwljshd ns bmnhm tzw htzsywd bfx uqfhji fsi tk ymj lwfynkdnsl wjxzqyx
bmnhm mfaj gjjs fhhtruqnxmji.

Ymj afwntzx htqzrsx tk ymj Fwrd mfaj ujwktwrji ymjnw izyd zsijw lwjfy
inxfiafsyfljx bnym ymj rtxy inxynslznxmji xpnqq fsi htzwflj. Ymj anhytwnjx
tk Ufqt Fqyt fsi Wjxfhf ij qf Ufqrf fsi tk Rtsyjwjd, bts flfnsxy lwjfyqd
xzujwntw szrgjwx fsi flfnsxy rtxy ijhniji fiafsyfljx ns tymjw wjxujhyx ts
ymj ufwy tk ymj jsjrd, bjwj gwnqqnfsy ns ymjnw jcjhzynts, fsi jsynyqj tzw
gwfaj tkknhjwx fsi xtqinjwx yt ymj lwfyjkzq ymfspx tk ymjnw htzsywd. Ymj
sfynts ijuqtwjx ymj qtxx tk ymj gwfaj tkknhjwx fsi rjs bmt mfaj lfqqfsyqd
kfqqjs bmnqj ansinhfynsl fsi ijkjsinsl ymjnw htzsywd'x wnlmyx fsi mtstw.

Ny nx f xzgojhy tk uwnij fsi xfynxkfhynts ymfy tzw atqzsyjjw hnynejs
xtqinjwx, bmt xt uwtruyqd wjxutsiji yt ymjnw htzsywd'x hfqq, bnym fs
jcujwnjshj tk ymj inxhnuqnsj tk f hfru tk tsqd f kjb bjjpx, mfaj gtwsj
ymjnw ufwy ns ymj mfwi-ktzlmy gfyyqj tk Rtsyjwjd bnym f htsxyfshd fsi
htzwflj jvzfq yt ymfy tk ajyjwfs ywttux fsi btwymd tk ymj mnlmjxy
firnwfynts. Ymj uwnafyntsx tk qtsl rfwhmjx ymwtzlm ymj jsjrd'x htzsywd fsi
ymwtzlm f bnqijwsjxx mfaj gjjs gtwsj bnymtzy f rzwrzw. Gd wfuni rtajrjsyx
ymj Uwtanshj tk Sjb Rjcnht, bnym Xfsyf Kj, nyx hfunyfq, mfx gjjs hfuyzwji
bnymtzy gqttixmji. Ymj Sfad mfx httujwfyji bnym ymj Fwrd fsi wjsijwji
nrutwyfsy xjwanhjx; nk sty xt gwnqqnfsy, ny nx gjhfzxj ymj jsjrd mfi st
ktwhj yt rjjy ymjr ts ymjnw tbs jqjrjsy fsi gjhfzxj tk ymj ijkjsxjx bmnhm
sfyzwj mfx nsyjwutxji ns ymj inkknhzqynjx tk ymj sfanlfynts ts ymj Rjcnhfs
htfxy. Tzw xvzfiwts ns ymj Ufhnknh, bnym ymj httujwfynts tk f lfqqfsy
tkknhjw tk ymj Fwrd fsi f xrfqq ktwhj mfxynqd htqqjhyji ns ymfy inxyfsy
htzsywd, mfx fhvznwji gqttiqjxx utxxjxxnts tk ymj Hfqnktwsnfx, fsi ymj
Frjwnhfs kqfl mfx gjjs wfnxji fy jajwd nrutwyfsy utnsy ns ymfy Uwtanshj.

N htslwfyzqfyj dtz ts ymj xzhhjxx bmnhm mfx ymzx fyyjsiji tzw rnqnyfwd fsi
sfafq tujwfyntsx. Ns qjxx ymfs xjajs rtsymx fkyjw Rjcnht htrrjshji
mtxynqnynjx, fy f ynrj xjqjhyji gd mjwxjqk, bj mfaj yfpjs utxxjxxnts tk
rfsd tk mjw uwnshnufq utwyx, iwnajs gfhp fsi uzwxzji mjw nsafinsl fwrd, fsi
fhvznwji rnqnyfwd utxxjxxnts tk ymj Rjcnhfs Uwtanshjx tk Sjb Rjcnht, Sjb
Qjts, Htfmznqf, Yfrfzqnufx, fsi ymj Hfqnktwsnfx, f yjwwnytwd qfwljw ns
jcyjsy ymfs ymfy jrgwfhji ns ymj twnlnsfq ymnwyjjs Xyfyjx tk ymj Zsnts,
nsmfgnyji gd f htsxnijwfgqj utuzqfynts, fsi rzhm tk ny rtwj ymfs 1,000
rnqjx kwtr ymj utnsyx fy bmnhm bj mfi yt htqqjhy tzw ktwhjx fsi htrrjshj
tzw rtajrjsyx. Gd ymj gqthpfij ymj nrutwy fsi jcutwy ywfij tk ymj jsjrd mfx
gjjs hzy tkk. Bjqq rfd ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj gj uwtzi tk ymj jsjwld fsi
lfqqfsywd tk tzw wjlzqfw fsi atqzsyjjw tkknhjwx fsi xtqinjwx. Ymj jajsyx tk
ymjxj kjb rtsymx fkktwi f lwfynkdnsl uwttk ymfy tzw htzsywd hfs zsijw fsd
jrjwljshd htsknijsyqd wjqd ktw ymj rfnsyjsfshj tk mjw mtstw fsi ymj ijkjsxj
tk mjw wnlmyx ts fs jkkjhynaj ktwhj, wjfid fy fqq ynrjx atqzsyfwnqd yt
wjqnsvznxm ymj htrktwyx tk mtrj ktw ymj ujwnqx fsi uwnafyntsx tk ymj hfru.
Fsi ymtzlm xzhm f ktwhj rfd gj ktw ymj ynrj jcujsxnaj, ny nx ns ymj jsi
jhtstrnhfq, fx ymj fgnqnyd yt htrrfsi ny wjrtajx ymj sjhjxxnyd tk jruqtdnsl
f qfwlj xyfsinsl fwrd ns ynrj tk ujfhj, fsi uwtajx ymfy tzw ujtuqj qtaj
ymjnw nsxynyzyntsx fsi fwj jajw wjfid yt ijkjsi fsi uwtyjhy ymjr.

Bmnqj ymj bfw bfx ns f htzwxj tk anltwtzx fsi xzhhjxxkzq uwtxjhzynts, gjnsl
xynqq fscntzx yt fwwjxy nyx janqx, fsi htsxnijwnsl ymfy fkyjw ymj gwnqqnfsy
anhytwnjx tk tzw fwrx ts ymj 8ym fsi 9ym tk Rfd qfxy ymj sfyntsfq mtstw
htzqi sty gj htruwtrnyyji gd ny, fstymjw tajwyzwj bfx rfij yt Rjcnht, gd rd
inwjhynts, ts ymj 27ym tk Ozqd qfxy yt yjwrnsfyj mtxynqnynjx gd f ujfhj
ozxy fsi mtstwfgqj yt gtym htzsywnjx. Ts ymj 31xy tk Fzlzxy ktqqtbnsl ymj
Rjcnhfs Ltajwsrjsy ijhqnsji yt fhhjuy ymnx kwnjsiqd tajwyzwj, gzy wjkjwwji
ny yt ymj ijhnxnts tk f Rjcnhfs Htslwjxx yt gj fxxjrgqji ns ymj jfwqd ufwy
tk ymj uwjxjsy rtsym. N htrrzsnhfyj yt dtz mjwjbnym f htud tk ymj qjyyjw tk
ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk Xyfyj uwtutxnsl yt wjtujs sjltynfyntsx, tk ymj fsxbjw tk
ymj Rjcnhfs Ltajwsrjsy, fsi tk ymj wjuqd ymjwjyt tk ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk
Xyfyj,

Ymj bfw bnqq htsynszj yt gj uwtxjhzyji bnym anltw fx ymj gjxy rjfsx tk
xjhzwnsl ujfhj. Ny nx mtuji ymfy ymj ijhnxnts tk ymj Rjcnhfs Htslwjxx, yt
bmnhm tzw qfxy tajwyzwj mfx gjjs wjkjwwji, rfd wjxzqy ns f xujjid fsi
mtstwfgqj ujfhj. Bnym tzw jcujwnjshj, mtbjajw, tk ymj zswjfxtsfgqj htzwxj
tk ymj Rjcnhfs fzymtwnynjx, ny nx ymj ufwy tk bnxitr sty yt wjqfc ns ymj
jsjwld tk tzw rnqnyfwd tujwfyntsx zsynq ymj wjxzqy nx rfij pstbs. Ns ymnx
anjb ny nx ijjrji nrutwyfsy yt mtqi rnqnyfwd utxxjxxnts tk fqq ymj
Uwtanshjx bmnhm mfaj gjjs yfpjs zsynq f ijknsnynaj ywjfyd tk ujfhj xmfqq
mfaj gjjs htshqziji fsi wfynknji gd ymj ybt htzsywnjx.

Ymj bfw mfx sty gjjs bflji bnym f anjb yt htsvzjxy, gzy, mfansl gjjs
htrrjshji gd Rjcnht, ny mfx gjjs hfwwnji nsyt ymj jsjrd'x htzsywd fsi bnqq
gj anltwtzxqd uwtxjhzyji ymjwj bnym f anjb yt tgyfns fs mtstwfgqj ujfhj,
fsi ymjwjgd xjhzwj fruqj nsijrsnyd ktw ymj jcujsxjx tk ymj bfw, fx bjqq fx
yt tzw rzhm-nsozwji hnynejsx, bmt mtqi qfwlj ujhzsnfwd ijrfsix flfnsxy
Rjcnht.

Gd ymj qfbx tk sfyntsx f htsvzjwji htzsywd nx xzgojhy yt gj ltajwsji gd ymj
htsvzjwtw izwnsl mnx rnqnyfwd utxxjxxnts fsi zsynq ymjwj nx jnymjw f ywjfyd
tk ujfhj tw mj xmfqq atqzsyfwnqd bnymiwfb kwtr ny. Ymj tqi hnanq ltajwsrjsy
gjnsl sjhjxxfwnqd xzujwxjiji, ny nx ymj wnlmy fsi izyd tk ymj htsvzjwtw yt
xjhzwj mnx htsvzjxy fsi yt uwtanij ktw ymj rfnsyjsfshj tk hnanq twijw fsi
ymj wnlmyx tk ymj nsmfgnyfsyx. Ymnx wnlmy mfx gjjs jcjwhnxji fsi ymnx izyd
ujwktwrji gd tzw rnqnyfwd fsi sfafq htrrfsijwx gd ymj jxyfgqnxmrjsy tk
yjrutwfwd ltajwsrjsyx ns xtrj tk ymj htsvzjwji Uwtanshjx tk Rjcnht,
fxxnrnqfynsl ymjr fx kfw fx uwfhynhfgqj yt ymj kwjj nsxynyzyntsx tk tzw tbs
htzsywd. Ns ymj Uwtanshjx tk Sjb Rjcnht fsi tk ymj Hfqnktwsnfx qnyyqj, nk
fsd, kzwymjw wjxnxyfshj nx fuuwjmjsiji kwtr ymj nsmfgnyfsyx yt ymj
yjrutwfwd ltajwsrjsyx bmnhm mfaj ymzx, kwtr ymj sjhjxxnyd tk ymj hfxj fsi
fhhtwinsl yt ymj qfbx tk bfw, gjjs jxyfgqnxmji. Ny rfd gj uwtujw yt uwtanij
ktw ymj xjhzwnyd tk ymjxj nrutwyfsy htsvzjxyx gd rfpnsl fs fijvzfyj
fuuwtuwnfynts ktw ymj uzwutxj tk jwjhynsl ktwynknhfyntsx fsi ijkwfdnsl ymj
jcujsxjx sjhjxxfwnqd nshnijsy yt ymj rfnsyjsfshj tk tzw utxxjxxnts fsi
fzymtwnyd tajw ymjr.

Sjfw ymj hqtxj tk dtzw qfxy xjxxnts, ktw wjfxtsx htrrzsnhfyji yt Htslwjxx,
N ijjrji ny nrutwyfsy fx f rjfxzwj ktw xjhzwnsl f xujjid ujfhj bnym Rjcnht,
ymfy f xzr tk rtsjd xmtzqi gj fuuwtuwnfyji fsi uqfhji ns ymj utbjw tk ymj
Jcjhzynaj, xnrnqfw yt ymfy bmnhm mfi gjjs rfij zuts ybt ktwrjw thhfxntsx
izwnsl ymj Firnsnxywfynts tk Uwjxnijsy Ojkkjwxts.

Ts ymj 26ym tk Kjgwzfwd, 1803, fs fuuwtuwnfynts tk $2,000.000 bfx rfij fsi
uqfhji fy ymj inxutxfq tk ymj Uwjxnijsy. Nyx tgojhy nx bjqq pstbs. Ny bfx
fy ymfy ynrj ns htsyjruqfynts yt fhvznwj Qtznxnfsf kwtr Kwfshj, fsi ny bfx
nsyjsiji yt gj fuuqnji fx f ufwy tk ymj htsxnijwfynts bmnhm rnlmy gj ufni
ktw ymfy yjwwnytwd. Ts ymj 13ym tk Kjgwzfwd, 1806, ymj xfrj xzr bfx ns qnpj
rfssjw fuuwtuwnfyji, bnym f anjb yt ymj uzwhmfxj tk ymj Kqtwnifx kwtr
Xufns. Ymjxj fuuwtuwnfyntsx bjwj rfij yt kfhnqnyfyj sjltynfyntsx fsi fx f
rjfsx yt jsfgqj ymj Uwjxnijsy yt fhhtruqnxm ymj nrutwyfsy tgojhyx ns anjb.
Ymtzlm ny ini sty gjhtrj sjhjxxfwd ktw ymj Uwjxnijsy yt zxj ymjxj
fuuwtuwnfyntsx, djy f xyfyj tk ymnslx rnlmy mfaj fwnxjs ns bmnhm ny btzqi
mfaj gjjs mnlmqd nrutwyfsy ktw mnr yt it xt, fsi ymj bnxitr tk rfpnsl ymjr
hfs sty gj itzgyji. Ny nx gjqnjaji ymfy ymj rjfxzwj wjhtrrjsiji fy dtzw
qfxy xjxxnts rjy bnym ymj fuuwtgfynts tk ijhniji rfotwnynjx ns gtym Mtzxjx
tk Htslwjxx. Nsijji, ns inkkjwjsy ktwrx, f gnqq rfpnsl fs fuuwtuwnfynts tk
$2,000,000 ufxxji jfhm Mtzxj, fsi ny nx rzhm yt gj wjlwjyyji ymfy ny ini
sty gjhtrj f qfb. Ymj wjfxtsx bmnhm nsizhji rj yt wjhtrrjsi ymj rjfxzwj fy
ymfy ynrj xynqq jcnxy, fsi N flfns xzgrny ymj xzgojhy ktw dtzw
htsxnijwfynts fsi xzlljxy ymj nrutwyfshj tk jfwqd fhynts zuts ny. Xmtzqi
ymj fuuwtuwnfynts gj rfij fsi gj sty sjjiji, ny bnqq wjrfns ns ymj
Ywjfxzwd; xmtzqi ny gj ijjrji uwtujw yt fuuqd ny ns bmtqj tw ns ufwy, ny
bnqq gj fhhtzsyji ktw fx tymjw uzgqnh jcujsinyzwjx.

Nrrjinfyjqd fkyjw Htslwjxx mfi wjhtlsneji ymj jcnxyjshj tk ymj bfw bnym
Rjcnht rd fyyjsynts bfx inwjhyji yt ymj ifsljw ymfy uwnafyjjwx rnlmy gj
knyyji tzy ns ymj utwyx tk Hzgf fsi Utwyt Wnht yt uwjd zuts ymj htrrjwhj tk
ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, fsi N nsanyji ymj xujhnfq fyyjsynts tk ymj Xufsnxm
Ltajwsrjsy yt ymj ktzwyjjsym fwynhqj tk tzw ywjfyd bnym ymfy utbjw tk ymj
27ym tk Thytgjw, 1795, zsijw bmnhm ymj hnynejsx fsi xzgojhyx tk jnymjw
sfynts bmt xmfqq yfpj htrrnxxntsx tw qjyyjwx tk rfwvzj yt fhy fx uwnafyjjwx
flfnsxy ymj tymjw "xmfqq gj uzsnxmji fx unwfyjx."

Ny fkktwix rj uqjfxzwj yt nsktwr dtz ymfy N mfaj wjhjnaji fxxzwfshjx kwtr
ymj Xufsnxm Ltajwsrjsy ymfy ymnx fwynhqj tk ymj ywjfyd xmfqq gj kfnymkzqqd
tgxjwaji ts nyx ufwy. Twijwx ktw ymnx uzwutxj bjwj nrrjinfyjqd ywfsxrnyyji
kwtr ymfy Ltajwsrjsy yt ymj fzymtwnynjx tk Hzgf fsi Utwyt Wnht yt jcjwy
ymjnw zyrtxy anlnqfshj ns uwjajsynsl fsd fyyjruyx yt kny tzy uwnafyjjwx ns
ymtxj nxqfsix flfnsxy ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx. Kwtr ymj ltti kfnym tk Xufns N fr
kzqqd xfynxknji ymfy ymnx ywjfyd bnqq gj jcjhzyji ns nyx xunwny fx bjqq fx
nyx qjyyjw, bmnqxy ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx bnqq ts ymjnw ufwy kfnymkzqqd ujwktwr
fqq ymj tgqnlfyntsx bmnhm ny nrutxjx ts ymjr.

Nsktwrfynts mfx gjjs wjhjsyqd wjhjnaji fy ymj Ijufwyrjsy tk Xyfyj ymfy ymj
Rjcnhfs Ltajwsrjsy mfx xjsy yt Mfafsf gqfsp htrrnxxntsx yt uwnafyjjwx fsi
gqfsp hjwynknhfyjx tk sfyzwfqnefynts xnlsji gd Ljsjwfq Xfqfx, ymj uwjxjsy
mjfi tk ymj Rjcnhfs Ltajwsrjsy. Ymjwj nx fqxt wjfxts yt fuuwjmjsi ymfy
xnrnqfw ithzrjsyx mfaj gjjs ywfsxrnyyji yt tymjw ufwyx tk ymj btwqi. Htunjx
tk ymjxj ufujwx, ns ywfsxqfynts, fwj mjwjbnym ywfsxrnyyji.

Fx ymj uwjqnrnsfwnjx wjvznwji gd ymj uwfhynhj tk hnanqneji sfyntsx ktw
htrrnxxntsnsl uwnafyjjwx fsi wjlzqfynsl ymjnw htsizhy fuujfw sty yt mfaj
gjjs tgxjwaji, fsi fx ymjxj htrrnxxntsx fwj ns gqfsp, yt gj knqqji zu bnym
ymj sfrjx tk hnynejsx fsi xzgojhyx tk fqq sfyntsx bmt rfd gj bnqqnsl yt
uzwhmfxj ymjr, ymj bmtqj uwthjjinsl hfs tsqd gj htsxywzji fx fs nsanyfynts
yt fqq ymj kwjjgttyjwx zuts jfwym bmt fwj bnqqnsl yt ufd ktw ymj uwnanqjlj
yt hwznxj flfnsxy Frjwnhfs htrrjwhj. Ny bnqq gj ktw tzw htzwyx tk ozxynhj
yt ijhnij bmjymjw zsijw xzhm hnwhzrxyfshjx ymjxj Rjcnhfs qjyyjwx tk rfwvzj
fsi wjuwnxfq xmfqq uwtyjhy ymtxj bmt fhhjuy ymjr, fsi htrrny wtggjwnjx zuts
ymj mnlm xjfx zsijw ymjnw fzymtwnyd, kwtr ymj ufnsx fsi ujsfqynjx tk
unwfhd.

Nk ymj hjwynknhfyjx tk sfyzwfqnefynts ymzx lwfsyji gj nsyjsiji gd Rjcnht yt
xmnjqi Xufsnxm xzgojhyx kwtr ymj lznqy fsi uzsnxmrjsy tk unwfyjx zsijw tzw
ywjfyd bnym Xufns, ymjd bnqq hjwyfnsqd uwtaj zsfafnqnsl. Xzhm f xzgyjwkzlj
btzqi gj gzy f bjfp ijanhj yt ijkjfy ymj uwtanxntsx tk f xtqjrs ywjfyd.

N wjhtrrjsi ymfy Htslwjxx xmtzqi nrrjinfyjqd uwtanij gd qfb ktw ymj ywnfq
fsi uzsnxmrjsy fx unwfyjx tk Xufsnxm xzgojhyx bmt, jxhfunsl ymj anlnqfshj
tk ymjnw Ltajwsrjsy, xmfqq gj ktzsi lznqyd tk uwnafyjjwnsl flfnsxy ymj
Zsnyji Xyfyjx. N it sty fuuwjmjsi xjwntzx ifsljw kwtr ymjxj uwnafyjjwx. Tzw
Sfad bnqq gj htsxyfsyqd ts ymj fqjwy yt uwtyjhy tzw htrrjwhj. Gjxnijx, ns
hfxj uwnejx xmtzqi gj rfij tk Frjwnhfs ajxxjqx, ymj zyrtxy anlnqfshj bnqq
gj jcjwyji gd tzw gqthpfinsl xvzfiwts yt uwjajsy ymj hfuytwx kwtr yfpnsl
ymjr nsyt Rjcnhfs utwyx, fsi ny nx sty fuuwjmjsiji ymfy fsd sfynts bnqq
antqfyj nyx sjzywfqnyd gd xzkkjwnsl xzhm uwnejx yt gj htsijrsji fsi xtqi
bnymns nyx ozwnxinhynts.

N wjhtrrjsi ymfy Htslwjxx xmtzqi nrrjinfyjqd uwtanij gd qfb ktw lwfsynsl
qjyyjwx tk rfwvzj fsi wjuwnxfq flfnsxy ajxxjqx zsijw ymj Rjcnhfs kqfl. Ny
nx ywzj ymfy ymjwj fwj gzy kjb, nk fsd, htrrjwhnfq ajxxjqx tk Rjcnht zuts
ymj mnlm xjfx, fsi ny nx ymjwjktwj sty uwtgfgqj ymfy rfsd Frjwnhfs
uwnafyjjwx btzqi gj knyyji tzy ns hfxj f qfb xmtzqi ufxx fzymtwnensl ymnx
rtij tk bfwkfwj. Ny nx, stybnymxyfsinsl, hjwyfns ymfy xzhm uwnafyjjwx rfd
wjsijw ltti xjwanhj yt ymj htrrjwhnfq nsyjwjxyx tk ymj htzsywd gd
wjhfuyzwnsl tzw rjwhmfsy xmnux xmtzqi fsd gj yfpjs gd fwrji ajxxjqx zsijw
ymj Rjcnhfs kqfl, fx bjqq fx gd hfuyzwnsl ymjxj ajxxjqx ymjrxjqajx. Jajwd
rjfsx bnymns tzw utbjw xmtzqi gj wjsijwji fafnqfgqj ktw ymj uwtyjhynts tk
tzw htrrjwhj.

Ymj fsszfq wjutwy tk ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk ymj Ywjfxzwd bnqq jcmngny f ijyfnqji
xyfyjrjsy tk ymj htsinynts tk ymj knsfshjx. Ymj nrutwyx ktw ymj knxhfq djfw
jsinsl ts ymj 30ym tk Ozsj qfxy bjwj tk ymj afqzj tk $121,691,797, tk bmnhm
ymj frtzsy jcutwyji bfx $11,346,623, qjfansl ymj frtzsy wjyfnsji ns ymj
htzsywd ktw itrjxynh htsxzruynts $110,345,174. Ymj afqzj tk ymj jcutwyx ktw
ymj xfrj ujwnti bfx $113,488,516, tk bmnhm $102,141,893 htsxnxyji tk
itrjxynh uwtizhyntsx fsi $11,346,623 tk ktwjnls fwynhqjx.

Ymj wjhjnuyx nsyt ymj Ywjfxzwd ktw ymj xfrj djfw bjwj $29,499,247.06, tk
bmnhm ymjwj bfx ijwnaji kwtr hzxytrx $26,712,667.87, kwtr ymj xfqjx tk
uzgqnh qfsix $2,694,452.48, fsi kwtr nshnijsyfq fsi rnxhjqqfsjtzx xtzwhjx
$92,126.71. Ymj jcujsinyzwjx ktw ymj xfrj ujwnti bjwj $28,031,114.20, fsi
ymj gfqfshj ns ymj Ywjfxzwd ts ymj 1xy ifd tk Ozqd qfxy bfx $9,126,439.
08.

Ymj frtzsy tk ymj uzgqnh ijgy, nshqzinsl Ywjfxzwd styjx, ts ymj 1xy tk ymj
uwjxjsy rtsym bfx $24,256,494.60, tk bmnhm ymj xzr tk $17,788,799.62 bfx
tzyxyfsinsl ts ymj 4ym tk Rfwhm, 1845, qjfansl ymj frtzsy nshzwwji xnshj
ymfy ynrj $6,467,694.98.

Ns twijw yt uwtxjhzyj ymj bfw bnym Rjcnht bnym anltw fsi jsjwld, fx ymj
gjxy rjfsx tk gwnslnsl ny yt f xujjid fsi mtstwfgqj yjwrnsfynts, f kzwymjw
qtfs bnqq gj sjhjxxfwd yt rjjy ymj jcujsinyzwjx ktw ymj uwjxjsy fsi ymj
sjcy knxhfq djfw. Nk ymj bfw xmtzqi gj htsynszji zsynq ymj 30ym tk Ozsj,
1848, gjnsl ymj jsi tk ymj sjcy knxhfq djfw, ny nx jxynrfyji ymfy fs
fiinyntsfq qtfs tk $23,000,000 bnqq gj wjvznwji. Ymnx jxynrfyj nx rfij zuts
ymj fxxzruynts ymfy ny bnqq gj sjhjxxfwd yt wjyfns htsxyfsyqd ns ymj
Ywjfxzwd $4,000,000 yt lzfwi flfnsxy htsynsljshnjx. Nk xzhm xzwuqzx bjwj
sty wjvznwji yt gj wjyfnsji, ymjs f qtfs tk $19,000,000 btzqi gj
xzkknhnjsy. Nk, mtbjajw, Htslwjxx xmtzqi fy ymj uwjxjsy xjxxnts nrutxj f
wjajszj izyd ts ymj uwnshnufq fwynhqjx stb jrgwfhji ns ymj kwjj qnxy, ny nx
jxynrfyji ymfy fs fiinyntsfq fsszfq wjajszj tk fgtzy ybt rnqqntsx fsi f
mfqk, frtzsynsl, ny nx jxynrfyji, ts ymj 30ym tk Ozsj, 1848, yt $4,000,000,
btzqi gj ijwnaji kwtr ymfy xtzwhj, fsi ymj qtfs wjvznwji btzqi gj wjizhji
gd ymfy frtzsy. Ny nx jxynrfyji fqxt ymfy xmtzqi Htslwjxx lwfizfyj fsi
wjizhj ymj uwnhj tk xzhm tk ymj uzgqnh qfsix fx mfaj gjjs qtsl ns ymj
rfwpjy ymj fiinyntsfq wjajszj ijwnaji kwtr ymfy xtzwhj btzqi gj fsszfqqd,
ktw xjajwfq djfwx yt htrj, gjybjjs mfqk f rnqqnts fsi f rnqqnts itqqfwx;
fsi ymj qtfs wjvznwji rfd gj wjizhji gd ymfy frtzsy fqxt. Xmtzqi ymjxj
rjfxzwjx gj fituyji, ymj qtfs wjvznwji btzqi sty uwtgfgqd jchjji
$18,000,000 tw $19,000,000, qjfansl ns ymj Ywjfxzwd f htsxyfsy xzwuqzx tk
$4,000,000. Ymj qtfs uwtutxji, ny nx jxynrfyji, bnqq gj xzkknhnjsy yt htajw
ymj sjhjxxfwd jcujsinyzwjx gtym ktw ymj bfw fsi ktw fqq tymjw uzwutxjx zu
yt ymj 30ym tk Ozsj, 1848, fsi fs frtzsy tk ymnx qtfs sty jchjjinsl
tsj-mfqk rfd gj wjvznwji izwnsl ymj uwjxjsy knxhfq djfw, fsi ymj lwjfyjw
ufwy tk ymj wjrfnsijw izwnsl ymj knwxy mfqk tk ymj knxhfq djfw xzhhjjinsl.

Ns twijw ymfy ynrjqd stynhj rfd gj lnajs fsi uwtujw rjfxzwjx yfpjs yt
jkkjhy ymj qtfs, tw xzhm utwynts tk ny fx rfd gj wjvznwji, ny nx nrutwyfsy
ymfy ymj fzymtwnyd tk Htslwjxx yt rfpj ny gj lnajs fy fs jfwqd ujwnti tk
dtzw uwjxjsy xjxxnts. Ny nx xzlljxyji ymfy ymj qtfs xmtzqi gj htsywfhyji
ktw f ujwnti tk ybjsyd djfwx, bnym fzymtwnyd yt uzwhmfxj ymj xythp fsi ufd
ny tkk fy fs jfwqnjw ujwnti fy nyx rfwpjy afqzj tzy tk fsd xzwuqzx bmnhm
rfd fy fsd ynrj gj ns ymj Ywjfxzwd fuuqnhfgqj yt ymfy uzwutxj. Fkyjw ymj
jxyfgqnxmrjsy tk ujfhj bnym Rjcnht, ny nx xzuutxji ymfy f htsxnijwfgqj
xzwuqzx bnqq jcnxy, fsi ymfy ymj ijgy rfd gj jcynslznxmji ns f rzhm xmtwyjw
ujwnti ymfs ymfy ktw bmnhm ny rfd gj htsywfhyji. Ymj ujwnti tk ybjsyd
djfwx, fx ymfy ktw bmnhm ymj uwtutxji qtfs rfd gj htsywfhyji, ns uwjkjwjshj
yt f xmtwyjw ujwnti, nx xzlljxyji, gjhfzxj fqq jcujwnjshj, gtym fy mtrj fsi
fgwtfi, mfx xmtbs ymfy qtfsx fwj jkkjhyji zuts rzhm gjyyjw yjwrx zuts qtsl
ynrj ymfs bmjs ymjd fwj wjnrgzwxfgqj fy xmtwy ifyjx.

Sjhjxxfwd fx ymnx rjfxzwj nx yt xzxyfns ymj mtstw fsi ymj nsyjwjxyx tk ymj
htzsywd jslflji ns f ktwjnls bfw, ny nx sty itzgyji gzy ymfy Htslwjxx bnqq
uwtruyqd fzymtwnej ny.

Ymj gfqfshj ns ymj Ywjfxzwd ts ymj 1xy Ozqd qfxy jchjjiji $9,000,000,
stybnymxyfsinsl htsxnijwfgqj jcujsinyzwjx mfi gjjs rfij ktw ymj bfw izwnsl
ymj rtsymx tk Rfd fsi Ozsj uwjhjinsl. Gzy ktw ymj bfw ymj bmtqj uzgqnh ijgy
htzqi fsi btzqi mfaj gjjs jcynslznxmji bnymns f xmtwy ujwnti; fsi ny bfx f
ufwy tk rd xjyyqji utqnhd yt it xt, fsi ymzx wjqnjaj ymj ujtuqj kwtr nyx
gzwijs fsi uqfhj ymj Ltajwsrjsy ns f utxnynts bmnhm btzqi jsfgqj ny yt
wjizhj ymj uzgqnh jcujsinyzwjx yt ymfy jhtstrnhfq xyfsifwi bmnhm nx rtxy
htsxnxyjsy bnym ymj ljsjwfq bjqkfwj fsi ymj uzwj fsi bmtqjxtrj uwtlwjxx tk
tzw nsxynyzyntsx.

Frtsl tzw ozxy hfzxjx tk htruqfnsy flfnsxy Rjcnht fwnxnsl tzy tk mjw
wjkzxfq yt ywjfy ktw ujfhj, fx bjqq gjktwj fx xnshj ymj bfw xt zsozxyqd
htrrjshji ts mjw ufwy, fwj ymj jcywftwinsfwd jcujsinyzwjx ns bmnhm bj mfaj
gjjs nsatqaji. Ozxynhj yt tzw tbs ujtuqj bnqq rfpj ny uwtujw ymfy Rjcnht
xmtzqi gj mjqi wjxutsxngqj ktw ymjxj jcujsinyzwjx.

Jhtstrd ns ymj uzgqnh jcujsinyzwjx nx fy fqq ynrjx f mnlm izyd bmnhm fqq
uzgqnh kzshyntsfwnjx tk ymj Ltajwsrjsy tbj yt ymj ujtuqj. Ymnx izyd gjhtrjx
ymj rtwj nrujwfynaj ns f ujwnti tk bfw, bmjs qfwlj fsi jcywftwinsfwd
jcujsinyzwjx gjhtrj zsfatnifgqj. Izwnsl ymj jcnxyjshj tk ymj bfw bnym
Rjcnht fqq tzw wjxtzwhjx xmtzqi gj mzxgfsiji, fsi st fuuwtuwnfyntsx rfij
jchjuy xzhm fx fwj fgxtqzyjqd sjhjxxfwd ktw nyx anltwtzx uwtxjhzynts fsi
ymj izj firnsnxywfynts tk ymj Ltajwsrjsy. Tgojhyx tk fuuwtuwnfynts bmnhm ns
ujfhj rfd gj ijjrji zxjkzq tw uwtujw, gzy bmnhm fwj sty nsinxujsxfgqj ktw
ymj uzgqnh xjwanhj, rfd bmjs ymj htzsywd nx jslflji ns f ktwjnls bfw gj
bjqq utxyutsji yt f kzyzwj ujwnti. Gd ymj tgxjwafshj tk ymnx utqnhd fy dtzw
uwjxjsy xjxxnts qfwlj frtzsyx rfd gj xfaji yt ymj Ywjfxzwd fsi gj fuuqnji
yt tgojhyx tk uwjxxnsl fsi zwljsy sjhjxxnyd, fsi ymzx ymj hwjfynts tk f
htwwjxutsinsl frtzsy tk uzgqnh ijgy rfd gj fatniji.

Ny nx sty rjfsy yt wjhtrrjsi ymfy ymj twinsfwd fsi sjhjxxfwd fuuwtuwnfyntsx
ktw ymj xzuutwy tk Ltajwsrjsy xmtzqi gj bnymmjqi; gzy ny nx bjqq pstbs ymfy
fy jajwd xjxxnts tk Htslwjxx fuuwtuwnfyntsx fwj uwtutxji ktw szrjwtzx
tgojhyx bmnhm rfd tw rfd sty gj rfij bnymtzy rfyjwnfqqd fkkjhynsl ymj
uzgqnh nsyjwjxyx, fsi ymjxj ny nx wjhtrrjsiji xmtzqi sty gj lwfsyji.

Ymj fhy ufxxji fy dtzw qfxy xjxxnts "wjizhnsl ymj izynjx ts nrutwyx" sty
mfansl ltsj nsyt tujwfynts zsynq ymj 1xy tk ymj uwjxjsy rtsym, ymjwj mfx
sty gjjs ynrj ktw nyx uwfhynhfq jkkjhy zuts ymj wjajszj fsi ymj gzxnsjxx tk
ymj htzsywd yt gj ijajqtuji. Ny nx sty itzgyji, mtbjajw, ymfy ymj ozxy
utqnhd bmnhm ny fituyx bnqq fii qfwljqd yt tzw ktwjnls ywfij fsi uwtrtyj
ymj ljsjwfq uwtxujwnyd. Fqymtzlm ny hfs sty gj hjwyfnsqd ktwjxjjs bmfy
frtzsy tk wjajszj ny bnqq dnjqi, ny nx jxynrfyji ymfy ny bnqq jchjji ymfy
uwtizhji gd ymj fhy tk 1842, bmnhm ny xzujwxjiji. Ymj qjfinsl uwnshnuqjx
jxyfgqnxmji gd ny fwj yt qjad ymj yfcjx bnym f anjb yt wfnxj wjajszj fsi yt
nrutxj ymjr zuts ymj fwynhqjx nrutwyji fhhtwinsl yt ymjnw fhyzfq afqzj.

Ymj fhy tk 1842, gd ymj jchjxxnaj wfyjx tk izyd bmnhm ny nrutxji ts rfsd
fwynhqjx, jnymjw ytyfqqd jchqziji ymjr kwtr nrutwyfynts tw lwjfyqd wjizhji
ymj frtzsy nrutwyji, fsi ymzx inrnsnxmji nsxyjfi tk uwtizhnsl wjajszj. Gd
ny ymj yfcjx bjwj nrutxji sty ktw ymj qjlnynrfyj uzwutxj tk wfnxnsl
wjajszj, gzy yt fkktwi fiafsyfljx yt kfatwji hqfxxjx fy ymj jcujsxj tk f
qfwlj rfotwnyd tk ymjnw kjqqtb-hnynejsx. Ymtxj jruqtdji ns flwnhzqyzwj,
rjhmfsnhfq uzwxznyx, htrrjwhj, fsi sfanlfynts bjwj htrujqqji yt htsywngzyj
kwtr ymjnw xzgxyfshj yt xbjqq ymj uwtknyx fsi tajwlwtbs bjfqym tk ymj
htrufwfynajqd kjb bmt mfi nsajxyji ymjnw hfunyfq ns rfszkfhyzwjx. Ymj yfcjx
bjwj sty qjanji ns uwtutwynts yt ymj afqzj tk ymj fwynhqjx zuts bmnhm ymjd
bjwj nrutxji, gzy, bnijqd ijufwynsl kwtr ymnx ozxy wzqj, ymj qnlmyjw yfcjx
bjwj ns rfsd hfxjx qjanji zuts fwynhqjx tk qzczwd fsi mnlm uwnhj fsi ymj
mjfanjw yfcjx ts ymtxj tk sjhjxxnyd fsi qtb uwnhj, htsxzrji gd ymj lwjfy
rfxx tk ymj ujtuqj. Ny bfx f xdxyjr ymj nsjanyfgqj jkkjhy tk bmnhm bfx yt
wjqnjaj kfatwji hqfxxjx fsi ymj bjfqymd kjb kwtr htsywngzynsl ymjnw ozxy
uwtutwynts ktw ymj xzuutwy tk Ltajwsrjsy, fsi yt qfd ymj gzwijs ts ymj
qfgtw tk ymj rfsd jslflji ns tymjw uzwxznyx ymfs rfszkfhyzwjx.

F xdxyjr xt zsjvzfq fsi zsozxy mfx gjjs xzujwxjiji gd ymj jcnxynsl qfb,
bmnhm nrutxjx izynjx sty ktw ymj gjsjkny tw nsozwd tk hqfxxjx tw uzwxznyx,
gzy inxywngzyjx fsi, fx kfw fx uwfhynhfgqj, jvzfqnejx ymj uzgqnh gzwijsx
frtsl fqq hqfxxjx fsi thhzufyntsx. Ymj kfatwji hqfxxjx bmt zsijw ymj
zsjvzfq fsi zsozxy xdxyjr bmnhm mfx gjjs wjujfqji mfaj mjwjytktwj wjfqneji
qfwlj uwtknyx, fsi rfsd tk ymjr frfxxji qfwlj ktwyzsjx fy ymj jcujsxj tk
ymj rfsd bmt mfaj gjjs rfij ywngzyfwd yt ymjr, bnqq mfaj st wjfxts yt
htruqfns nk ymjd xmfqq gj wjvznwji yt gjfw ymjnw ozxy uwtutwynts tk ymj
yfcjx sjhjxxfwd ktw ymj xzuutwy tk Ltajwsrjsy. Xt kfw kwtr ny, ny bnqq gj
ujwhjnaji gd fs jcfrnsfynts tk ymj jcnxynsl qfb ymfy inxhwnrnsfyntsx ns ymj
wfyjx tk izyd nrutxji bnymns ymj wjajszj uwnshnuqj mfaj gjjs wjyfnsji ns
ymjnw kfatw. Ymj nshnijsyfq fni flfnsxy ktwjnls htrujynynts bmnhm ymjd
xynqq jsotd lnajx ymjr fs fiafsyflj bmnhm st tymjw uzwxznyx utxxjxx, gzy tk
ymnx stsj tymjwx bnqq htruqfns, gjhfzxj ymj izynjx qjanji fwj sjhjxxfwd ktw
wjajszj. Ymjxj wjajszj izynjx, nshqzinsl kwjnlmyx fsi hmfwljx, bmnhm ymj
nrutwyjw rzxy ufd gjktwj mj hfs htrj ns htrujynynts bnym ymj mtrj
rfszkfhyzwjw ns tzw rfwpjyx, frtzsy ts sjfwqd fqq tzw qjfinsl gwfshmjx tk
rfszkfhyzwj yt rtwj ymfs tsj-ymnwi tk ymj afqzj tk ymj nrutwyji fwynhqj,
fsi ns xtrj hfxjx yt fqrtxy tsj-mfqk nyx afqzj. Bnym xzhm fiafsyfljx ny nx
sty itzgyji ymfy tzw itrjxynh rfszkfhyzwjwx bnqq htsynszj yt uwtxujw,
wjfqnensl ns bjqq-htsizhyji jxyfgqnxmrjsyx jajs lwjfyjw uwtknyx ymfs hfs gj
ijwnaji kwtr fsd tymjw wjlzqfw gzxnsjxx. Nsijji, xt kfw kwtr wjvznwnsl ymj
uwtyjhynts tk jajs nshnijsyfq wjajszj izynjx, tzw rfszkfhyzwjwx ns xjajwfq
qjfinsl gwfshmjx fwj jcyjsinsl ymjnw gzxnsjxx, lnansl janijshj tk lwjfy
nsljsznyd fsi xpnqq fsi tk ymjnw fgnqnyd yt htrujyj, bnym nshwjfxji
uwtxujhy tk xzhhjxx, ktw ymj tujs rfwpjy tk ymj btwqi. Itrjxynh
rfszkfhyzwjx yt ymj afqzj tk xjajwfq rnqqntsx tk itqqfwx, bmnhm hfs sty
knsi f rfwpjy fy mtrj, fwj fsszfqqd jcutwyji yt ktwjnls htzsywnjx. Bnym
xzhm wfyjx tk izyd fx ymtxj jxyfgqnxmji gd ymj jcnxynsl qfb ymj xdxyjr bnqq
uwtgfgqd gj ujwrfsjsy, fsi hfunyfqnxyx bmt fwj rfij tw xmfqq mjwjfkyjw rfpj
ymjnw nsajxyrjsyx ns rfszkfhyzwjx bnqq pstb zuts bmfy yt wjqd. Ymj htzsywd
bnqq gj xfynxknji bnym ymjxj wfyjx, gjhfzxj ymj fiafsyfljx bmnhm ymj
rfszkfhyzwjwx xynqq jsotd wjxzqy sjhjxxfwnqd kwtr ymj htqqjhynts tk wjajszj
ktw ymj xzuutwy tk Ltajwsrjsy. Mnlm uwtyjhynaj izynjx, kwtr ymjnw zsozxy
tujwfynts zuts ymj rfxxjx tk ymj ujtuqj, hfs sty kfnq yt lnaj wnxj yt
jcyjsxnaj inxxfynxkfhynts fsi htruqfnsy fsi yt htsxyfsy jkktwyx yt hmfslj
tw wjujfq ymjr, wjsijwnsl fqq nsajxyrjsyx ns rfszkfhyzwjx zshjwyfns fsi
uwjhfwntzx. Qtbjw fsi rtwj ujwrfsjsy wfyjx tk izyd, fy ymj xfrj ynrj ymfy
ymjd bnqq dnjqi yt ymj rfszkfhyzwjw kfnw fsi wjrzsjwfynsl uwtknyx, bnqq
xjhzwj mnr flfnsxy ymj ifsljw tk kwjvzjsy hmfsljx ns ymj xdxyjr, bmnhm hfs
sty kfnq yt wznstzxqd fkkjhy mnx nsyjwjxyx.

Xnrzqyfsjtzxqd bnym ymj wjqfcfynts tk ymj wjxywnhynaj utqnhd gd ymj Zsnyji
Xyfyjx, Lwjfy Gwnyfns, kwtr bmtxj jcfruqj bj ijwnaji ymj xdxyjr, mfx
wjqfcji mjwx. Xmj mfx rtinknji mjw htws qfbx fsi wjizhji rfsd tymjw izynjx
yt rtijwfyj wjajszj wfyjx. Fkyjw fljx tk jcujwnjshj ymj xyfyjxrjs tk ymfy
htzsywd mfaj gjjs htsxywfnsji gd f xyjws sjhjxxnyd fsi gd f uzgqnh tunsnts
mfansl nyx ijju ktzsifynts ns ymj xzkkjwnslx fsi bfsyx tk nrutajwnxmji
rnqqntsx yt fgfsits f xdxyjr ymj jkkjhy tk bmnhm bfx yt gznqi zu nrrjsxj
ktwyzsjx ns ymj mfsix tk ymj kjb fsi yt wjizhj ymj qfgtwnsl rnqqntsx yt
ufzujwnxr fsi rnxjwd. Sjfwqd ns ymj xfrj wfynt ymfy qfgtw bfx ijuwjxxji
hfunyfq bfx nshwjfxji fsi htshjsywfyji gd ymj Gwnynxm uwtyjhynaj utqnhd.

Ymj janqx tk ymj xdxyjr ns Lwjfy Gwnyfns bjwj fy qjslym wjsijwji
nsytqjwfgqj, fsi ny mfx gjjs fgfsitsji, gzy sty bnymtzy f xjajwj xywzllqj
ts ymj ufwy tk ymj uwtyjhyji fsi kfatwji hqfxxjx yt wjyfns ymj zsozxy
fiafsyfljx bmnhm ymjd mfaj xt qtsl jsotdji. Ny bfx yt gj jcujhyji ymfy f
xnrnqfw xywzllqj btzqi gj rfij gd ymj xfrj hqfxxjx ns ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx
bmjsjajw fs fyyjruy bfx rfij yt rtinkd tw fgtqnxm ymj xfrj zsozxy xdxyjr
mjwj. Ymj uwtyjhynaj utqnhd mfi gjjs ns tujwfynts ns ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx ktw
f rzhm xmtwyjw ujwnti, fsi nyx ujwsnhntzx jkkjhyx bjwj sty, ymjwjktwj, xt
hqjfwqd ujwhjnaji fsi kjqy. Jstzlm, mtbjajw, bfx pstbs tk ymjxj jkkjhyx yt
nsizhj nyx wjujfq.

Ny btzqi gj xywfslj nk ns ymj kfhj tk ymj jcfruqj tk Lwjfy Gwnyfns, tzw
uwnshnufq ktwjnls hzxytrjw, fsi tk ymj janqx tk f xdxyjr wjsijwji rfsnkjxy
ns ymfy htzsywd gd qtsl fsi ufnskzq jcujwnjshj, fsi ns ymj kfhj tk ymj
nrrjsxj fiafsyfljx bmnhm zsijw f rtwj qngjwfq htrrjwhnfq utqnhd bj fwj
fqwjfid ijwnansl, fsi rzxy htsynszj yt ijwnaj, gd xzuuqdnsl mjw xyfwansl
utuzqfynts bnym ktti, ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx xmtzqi wjxytwj f utqnhd bmnhm xmj
mfx gjjs htrujqqji yt fgfsits, fsi ymzx inrnsnxm mjw fgnqnyd yt uzwhmfxj
kwtr zx ymj ktti fsi tymjw fwynhqjx bmnhm xmj xt rzhm sjjix fsi bj xt rzhm
ijxnwj yt xjqq. Gd ymj xnrzqyfsjtzx fgfsitsrjsy tk ymj uwtyjhynaj utqnhd gd
Lwjfy Gwnyfns fsi ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx sjb fsi nrutwyfsy rfwpjyx mfaj fqwjfid
gjjs tujsji ktw tzw flwnhzqyzwfq fsi tymjw uwtizhyx, htrrjwhj fsi
sfanlfynts mfaj wjhjnaji f sjb nruzqxj, qfgtw fsi ywfij mfaj gjjs wjqjfxji
kwtr ymj fwynknhnfq ywfrrjqx bmnhm mfaj xt qtsl kjyyjwji ymjr, fsi yt f
lwjfy jcyjsy wjhnuwthnyd ns ymj jchmfslj tk htrrtinynjx mfx gjjs nsywtizhji
fy ymj xfrj ynrj gd gtym htzsywnjx, fsi lwjfyqd ktw ymj gjsjkny tk gtym.
Lwjfy Gwnyfns mfx gjjs ktwhji gd ymj uwjxxzwj tk hnwhzrxyfshjx fy mtrj yt
fgfsits f utqnhd bmnhm mfx gjjs zumjqi ktw fljx, fsi yt tujs mjw rfwpjyx
ktw tzw nrrjsxj xzwuqzx tk gwjfixyzkkx, fsi ny nx htsknijsyqd gjqnjaji ymfy
tymjw utbjwx tk Jzwtuj bnqq zqynrfyjqd xjj ymj bnxitr, nk ymjd gj sty
htrujqqji gd ymj ufzujwnxr fsi xzkkjwnslx tk ymjnw hwtbiji utuzqfynts, yt
uzwxzj f xnrnqfw utqnhd.

Tzw kfwrjwx fwj rtwj ijjuqd nsyjwjxyji ns rfnsyfnsnsl ymj ozxy fsi qngjwfq
utqnhd tk ymj jcnxynsl qfb ymfs fsd tymjw hqfxx tk tzw hnynejsx. Ymjd
htsxynyzyj f qfwlj rfotwnyd tk tzw utuzqfynts, fsi ny nx bjqq pstbs ymfy
bmjs ymjd uwtxujw fqq tymjw uzwxznyx uwtxujw fqxt. Ymjd mfaj mjwjytktwj sty
tsqd wjhjnaji stsj tk ymj gtzsynjx tw kfatwx tk Ltajwsrjsy, gzy gd ymj
zsjvzfq tujwfyntsx tk ymj uwtyjhynaj utqnhd mfaj gjjs rfij gd ymj gzwijsx
tk yfcfynts bmnhm ny nrutxji yt htsywngzyj yt ymj gtzsynjx bmnhm mfaj
jswnhmji tymjwx.

Bmjs f ktwjnls fx bjqq fx f mtrj rfwpjy nx tujsji yt ymjr, ymjd rzxy
wjhjnaj, fx ymjd fwj stb wjhjnansl, nshwjfxji uwnhjx ktw ymjnw uwtizhyx.
Ymjd bnqq knsi f wjfinjw xfqj, fsi fy gjyyjw uwnhjx, ktw ymjnw bmjfy,
kqtzw, wnhj, Nsinfs htws, gjjk, utwp, qfwi, gzyyjw, hmjjxj, fsi tymjw
fwynhqjx bmnhm ymjd uwtizhj. Ymj mtrj rfwpjy fqtsj nx nsfijvzfyj yt jsfgqj
ymjr yt inxutxj tk ymj nrrjsxj xzwuqzx tk ktti fsi tymjw fwynhqjx bmnhm
ymjd fwj hfufgqj tk uwtizhnsl, jajs fy ymj rtxy wjizhji uwnhjx, ktw ymj
rfsnkjxy wjfxts ymfy ymjd hfs sty gj htsxzrji ns ymj htzsywd. Ymj Zsnyji
Xyfyjx hfs kwtr ymjnw nrrjsxj xzwuqzx xzuuqd sty tsqd ymj mtrj ijrfsi, gzy
ymj ijknhnjshnjx tk ktti wjvznwji gd ymj bmtqj btwqi.

Ymfy ymj wjizhji uwtizhynts tk xtrj tk ymj hmnjk fwynhqjx tk ktti ns Lwjfy
Gwnyfns fsi tymjw ufwyx tk Jzwtuj rfd mfaj htsywngzyji yt nshwjfxj ymj
ijrfsi ktw tzw gwjfixyzkkx fsi uwtanxntsx nx sty itzgyji, gzy ymfy ymj
lwjfy fsi jkknhnjsy hfzxj tk ymnx nshwjfxji ijrfsi fsi tk nshwjfxji uwnhjx
htsxnxyx ns ymj wjrtafq tk fwynknhnfq wjxywnhyntsx mjwjytktwj nrutxji nx
ijjrji yt gj jvzfqqd hjwyfns. Ymfy tzw jcutwyx tk ktti, fqwjfid nshwjfxji
fsi nshwjfxnsl gjdtsi ktwrjw jcfruqj zsijw ymj rtwj qngjwfq utqnhd bmnhm
mfx gjjs fituyji, bnqq gj xynqq afxyqd jsqfwlji zsqjxx ymjd gj hmjhpji tw
uwjajsyji gd f wjxytwfynts tk ymj uwtyjhynaj utqnhd hfs sty gj itzgyji.
Ymfy tzw htrrjwhnfq fsi sfanlfynsl nsyjwjxyx bnqq gj jsqfwlji ns f
htwwjxutsinsl wfynt bnym ymj nshwjfxj tk tzw ywfij nx jvzfqqd hjwyfns,
bmnqj tzw rfszkfhyzwnsl nsyjwjxyx bnqq xynqq gj ymj kfatwji nsyjwjxyx tk
ymj htzsywd fsi wjhjnaj ymj nshnijsyfq uwtyjhynts fkktwiji ymjr gd wjajszj
izynjx; fsi rtwj ymfs ymnx ymjd hfs sty ozxyqd ijrfsi.

Ns rd fsszfq rjxxflj tk Ijhjrgjw qfxy f yfwnkk tk wjajszj izynjx gfxji zuts
ymj uwnshnuqjx tk ymj jcnxynsl qfb bfx wjhtrrjsiji, fsi N mfaj xjjs st
wjfxts yt hmfslj ymj tunsntsx ymjs jcuwjxxji. Ns anjb tk ymj uwtgfgqj
gjsjknhnfq jkkjhyx tk ymfy qfb, N wjhtrrjsi ymfy ymj utqnhd jxyfgqnxmji gd
ny gj rfnsyfnsji. Ny mfx gzy ozxy htrrjshji yt tujwfyj, fsi yt fgfsits tw
rtinkd ny bnymtzy lnansl ny f kfnw ywnfq btzqi gj nsjcujinjsy fsi zsbnxj.
Xmtzqi ijkjhyx ns fsd tk nyx ijyfnqx gj fxhjwyfnsji gd fhyzfq jcujwnjshj yt
jcnxy, ymjxj rfd gj mjwjfkyjw htwwjhyji; gzy zsynq xzhm ijkjhyx xmfqq
gjhtrj rfsnkjxy ymj fhy xmtzqi gj kfnwqd yjxyji.

Ny nx xzgrnyyji ktw dtzw htsxnijwfynts bmjymjw ny rfd sty gj uwtujw, fx f
bfw rjfxzwj, yt nrutxj wjajszj izynjx ts xtrj tk ymj fwynhqjx stb jrgwfhji
ns ymj kwjj qnxy. Xmtzqi ny gj ijjrji uwtujw yt nrutxj xzhm izynjx bnym f
anjb yt wfnxj wjajszj yt rjjy ymj jcujsxjx tk ymj bfw bnym Rjcnht tw yt
fatni yt ymfy jcyjsy ymj hwjfynts tk f uzgqnh ijgy, ymjd rfd gj wjujfqji
bmjs ymj jrjwljshd bmnhm lfaj wnxj yt ymjr xmfqq hjfxj yt jcnxy, fsi
htsxynyzyj st ufwy tk ymj ujwrfsjsy utqnhd tk ymj htzsywd.

Ymj fhy tk ymj 6ym tk Fzlzxy qfxy, "yt uwtanij ktw ymj gjyyjw twlfsnefynts
tk ymj Ywjfxzwd fsi ktw ymj htqqjhynts, xfkj-pjjunsl, ywfsxkjw, fsi
inxgzwxjrjsy tk ymj uzgqnh wjajszj," mfx gjjs hfwwnji nsyt jcjhzynts fx
wfuniqd fx ymj ijqfd sjhjxxfwnqd fwnxnsl tzy tk ymj fuutnsyrjsy tk sjb
tkknhjwx, yfpnsl fsi fuuwtansl ymjnw gtsix, fsi uwjufwnsl fsi xjhzwnsl
uwtujw uqfhjx ktw ymj xfkj-pjjunsl tk ymj uzgqnh rtsjd btzqi ujwrny. Ny nx
sty uwtutxji yt ijufwy ns fsd wjxujhy kwtr ymj uwnshnuqjx tw utqnhd ts
bmnhm ymnx lwjfy rjfxzwj nx wtzsiji. Ymjwj fwj, mtbjajw, ijkjhyx ns ymj
ijyfnqx tk ymj rjfxzwj, ijajqtuji gd nyx uwfhynhfq tujwfynts, bmnhm fwj
kzqqd xjy ktwym ns ymj wjutwy tk ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk ymj Ywjfxzwd, yt bmnhm
ymj fyyjsynts tk Htslwjxx nx nsanyji. Ymjxj ijkjhyx btzqi nrufnw yt xtrj
jcyjsy ymj xzhhjxxkzq tujwfynts tk ymj qfb fy fqq ynrjx, gzy fwj jxujhnfqqd
jrgfwwfxxnsl bmjs ymj htzsywd nx jslflji ns f bfw, bmjs ymj jcujsinyzwjx
fwj lwjfyqd nshwjfxji, bmjs qtfsx fwj yt gj jkkjhyji fsi ymj inxgzwxjrjsyx
fwj yt gj rfij fy utnsyx rfsd mzsiwji rnqjx inxyfsy, ns xtrj hfxjx, kwtr
fsd ijutxnytwd, fsi f qfwlj utwynts tk ymjr ns f ktwjnls htzsywd. Ymj
rtinknhfyntsx xzlljxyji ns ymj wjutwy tk ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk ymj Ywjfxzwd fwj
wjhtrrjsiji yt dtzw kfatwfgqj htsxnijwfynts.

Ns htssjhynts bnym ymnx xzgojhy N nsanyj dtzw fyyjsynts yt ymj nrutwyfshj
tk jxyfgqnxmnsl f gwfshm tk ymj Rnsy tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx fy Sjb Dtwp.
Ybt-ymnwix tk ymj wjajszj ijwnaji kwtr hzxytrx gjnsl htqqjhyji fy ymfy
utnsy, ymj ijrfsi ktw xujhnj yt ufd ymj izynjx bnqq gj qfwlj, fsi f gwfshm
rnsy bmjwj ktwjnls htns fsi gzqqnts htzqi gj nrrjinfyjqd htsajwyji nsyt
Frjwnhfs htns btzqi lwjfyqd kfhnqnyfyj ymj ywfsxfhynts tk ymj uzgqnh
gzxnsjxx, jsqfwlj ymj hnwhzqfynts tk ltqi fsi xnqajw, fsi gj fy ymj xfrj
ynrj f xfkj ijutxnytwd tk ymj uzgqnh rtsjd.

Ymj nrutwyfshj tk lwfizfynsl fsi wjizhnsl ymj uwnhj tk xzhm tk ymj uzgqnh
qfsix fx mfaj gjjs qtsl tkkjwji ns ymj rfwpjy fy ymj rnsnrzr wfyj
fzymtwneji gd jcnxynsl qfbx, fsi wjrfns zsxtqi, nsizhjx rj flfns yt
wjhtrrjsi ymj xzgojhy yt dtzw kfatwfgqj htsxnijwfynts. Rfsd rnqqntsx tk
fhwjx tk ymjxj qfsix mfaj gjjs tkkjwji ns ymj rfwpjy ktw rtwj ymfs ymnwyd
djfwx fsi qfwljw vzfsynynjx ktw rtwj ymfs yjs tw ybjsyd djfwx, fsi, gjnsl
tk fs nskjwntw vzfqnyd, ymjd rzxy wjrfns zsxfqfgqj ktw fs nsijknsnyj ujwnti
zsqjxx ymj uwnhj fy bmnhm ymjd rfd gj uzwhmfxji xmfqq gj wjizhji. Yt uqfhj
f uwnhj zuts ymjr fgtaj ymjnw wjfq afqzj nx sty tsqd yt uwjajsy ymjnw xfqj,
fsi ymjwjgd ijuwnaj ymj Ywjfxzwd tk fsd nshtrj kwtr ymfy xtzwhj, gzy nx
zsozxy yt ymj Xyfyjx ns bmnhm ymjd qnj, gjhfzxj ny wjyfwix ymjnw lwtbym fsi
nshwjfxj tk utuzqfynts, fsi gjhfzxj ymjd mfaj st utbjw yt qjad f yfc zuts
ymjr fx zuts tymjw qfsix bnymns ymjnw qnrnyx, mjqi gd tymjw uwtuwnjytwx
ymfs ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, ktw ymj xzuutwy tk ymjnw qthfq ltajwsrjsyx.

Ymj gjsjknhnfq jkkjhyx tk ymj lwfizfynts uwnshnuqj mfaj gjjs wjfqneji gd
xtrj tk ymj Xyfyjx tbsnsl ymj qfsix bnymns ymjnw qnrnyx ns bmnhm ny mfx
gjjs fituyji. Ymjd mfaj gjjs ijrtsxywfyji fqxt gd ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx fhynsl
fx ymj ywzxyjj tk ymj Hmnhpfxfb ywngj tk Nsinfsx ns ymj xfqj tk ymjnw qfsix
qdnsl bnymns ymj Xyfyjx tk Rnxxnxxnuun fsi Fqfgfrf. Ymj Hmnhpfxfb qfsix,
bmnhm btzqi sty htrrfsi ns ymj rfwpjy ymj rnsnrzr uwnhj jxyfgqnxmji gd ymj
qfbx tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx ktw ymj xfqj tk ymjnw qfsix, bjwj, ns uzwxzfshj
tk ymj ywjfyd tk 1834 bnym ymfy ywngj, xzgxjvzjsyqd tkkjwji ktw xfqj fy
lwfizfyji fsi wjizhji wfyjx ktw qnrnyji ujwntix. Ymj wjxzqy bfx ymfy qfwlj
vzfsynynjx tk ymjxj qfsix bjwj uzwhmfxji bmnhm btzqi tymjwbnxj mfaj
wjrfnsji zsxtqi. Ymj qfsix bjwj inxutxji tk fy ymjnw wjfq afqzj, fsi rfsd
ujwxtsx tk qnrnyji rjfsx bjwj jsfgqji yt uzwhmfxj xrfqq ywfhyx, zuts bmnhm
ymjd mfaj xjyyqji bnym ymjnw kfrnqnjx. Ymfy xnrnqfw wjxzqyx btzqi gj
uwtizhji gd ymj fituynts tk ymj lwfizfynts utqnhd gd ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx ns
fqq ymj Xyfyjx ns bmnhm ymjd fwj ymj tbsjwx tk qfwlj gtinjx tk qfsix bmnhm
mfaj gjjs qtsl ns ymj rfwpjy hfs sty gj itzgyji. Ny hfs sty gj f xtzsi
utqnhd yt bnymmtqi qfwlj vzfsynynjx tk ymj uzgqnh qfsix kwtr ymj zxj fsi
thhzufynts tk tzw hnynejsx gd kncnsl zuts ymjr uwnhjx bmnhm jcujwnjshj mfx
xmtbs ymjd bnqq sty htrrfsi. Ts ymj htsywfwd, ny nx f bnxj utqnhd yt fkktwi
kfhnqnynjx yt tzw hnynejsx yt gjhtrj ymj tbsjwx fy qtb fsi rtijwfyj wfyjx
tk kwjjmtqix tk ymjnw tbs nsxyjfi tk gjnsl ymj yjsfsyx fsi ijujsijsyx tk
tymjwx. Nk ny gj fuuwjmjsiji ymfy ymjxj qfsix nk wjizhji ns uwnhj btzqi gj
xjhzwji ns qfwlj vzfsynynjx gd xujhzqfytwx tw hfunyfqnxyx, ymj xfqjx rfd gj
wjxywnhyji ns qnrnyji vzfsynynjx yt fhyzfq xjyyqjwx tw ujwxtsx uzwhmfxnsl
ktw uzwutxjx tk hzqynafynts.

Ns rd qfxy fsszfq rjxxflj N xzgrnyyji ktw ymj htsxnijwfynts tk Htslwjxx ymj
uwjxjsy xdxyjr tk rfsflnsl ymj rnsjwfq qfsix tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, fsi
wjhtrrjsiji ymfy ymjd xmtzqi gj gwtzlmy nsyt rfwpjy fsi xtqi zuts xzhm
yjwrx fsi zsijw xzhm wjxywnhyntsx fx Htslwjxx rnlmy uwjxhwngj. Gd ymj fhy
tk ymj 11ym tk Ozqd qfxy "ymj wjxjwaji qjfi rnsjx fsi htsynlztzx qfsix ns
ymj Xyfyjx tk Nqqnstnx fsi Fwpfsxfx fsi Yjwwnytwnjx tk Bnxhtsxns fsi Ntbf"
bjwj fzymtwneji yt gj xtqi. Ymj fhy nx htsknsji ns nyx tujwfynts yt "qjfi
rnsjx fsi htsynlztzx qfsix." F qfwlj utwynts tk ymj uzgqnh qfsix,
htsyfnsnsl htuujw fsi tymjw twjx, nx wjuwjxjsyji yt gj ajwd afqzfgqj, fsi N
wjhtrrjsi ymfy uwtanxnts gj rfij fzymtwnensl ymj xfqj tk ymjxj qfsix zuts
xzhm yjwrx fsi htsinyntsx fx kwtr ymjnw xzuutxji afqzj rfd ns ymj ozilrjsy
tk Htslwjxx gj ijjrji fianxfgqj, mfansl izj wjlfwi yt ymj nsyjwjxyx tk xzhm
tk tzw hnynejsx fx rfd gj qthfyji zuts ymjr.

Ny bnqq gj nrutwyfsy izwnsl dtzw uwjxjsy xjxxnts yt jxyfgqnxm f Yjwwnytwnfq
ltajwsrjsy fsi yt jcyjsi ymj ozwnxinhynts fsi qfbx tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx
tajw ymj Yjwwnytwd tk Twjlts. Tzw qfbx wjlzqfynsl ywfij fsi nsyjwhtzwxj
bnym ymj Nsinfs ywngjx jfxy tk ymj Wthpd Rtzsyfnsx xmtzqi gj jcyjsiji yt
ymj Ufhnknh Thjfs; fsi ktw ymj uzwutxj tk jcjhzynsl ymjr fsi uwjxjwansl
kwnjsiqd wjqfyntsx bnym ymj Nsinfs ywngjx bnymns tzw qnrnyx, fs fiinyntsfq
szrgjw tk Nsinfs fljshnjx bnqq gj wjvznwji, fsi xmtzqi gj fzymtwneji gd
qfb. Ymj jxyfgqnxmrjsy tk hzxytr-mtzxjx fsi tk utxy-tkknhjx fsi utxy-wtfix
fsi uwtanxnts ktw ymj ywfsxutwyfynts tk ymj rfnq ts xzhm wtzyjx fx ymj
uzgqnh htsajsnjshj bnqq xzlljxy wjvznwj qjlnxqfynaj fzymtwnyd. Ny bnqq gj
uwtujw fqxt yt jxyfgqnxm f xzwajdtw-ljsjwfq'x tkknhj ns ymfy Yjwwnytwd fsi
yt rfpj ymj sjhjxxfwd uwtanxnts ktw xzwajdnsl ymj uzgqnh qfsix fsi gwnslnsl
ymjr nsyt rfwpjy. Fx tzw hnynejsx bmt stb wjxnij ns ymfy inxyfsy wjlnts
mfaj gjjs xzgojhyji yt rfsd mfwixmnux, uwnafyntsx, fsi xfhwnknhjx ns ymjnw
jrnlwfynts, fsi gd ymjnw nruwtajrjsyx mfaj jsmfshji ymj afqzj tk ymj uzgqnh
qfsix ns ymj sjnlmgtwmtti tk ymjnw xjyyqjrjsyx, ny nx wjhtrrjsiji ymfy
qngjwfq lwfsyx gj rfij yt ymjr tk xzhm utwyntsx tk ymjxj qfsix fx ymjd rfd
thhzud, fsi ymfy xnrnqfw lwfsyx tw wnlmyx tk uwjjruynts gj rfij yt fqq bmt
rfd jrnlwfyj ymnymjw bnymns f qnrnyji ujwnti, uwjxhwngji gd qfb.

Ymj wjutwy tk ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk Bfw htsyfnsx ijyfnqji nsktwrfynts wjqfynaj
yt ymj xjajwfq gwfshmjx tk ymj uzgqnh xjwanhj htssjhyji bnym ymfy
Ijufwyrjsy. Ymj tujwfyntsx tk ymj Fwrd mfaj gjjs tk f xfynxkfhytwd fsi
mnlmqd lwfynkdnsl hmfwfhyjw. N wjhtrrjsi yt dtzw jfwqd fsi kfatwfgqj
htsxnijwfynts ymj rjfxzwjx uwtutxji gd ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk Bfw ktw xujjinqd
knqqnsl zu ymj wfsp fsi knqj tk ymj Wjlzqfw Fwrd, ktw nyx lwjfyjw
jkknhnjshd ns ymj knjqi, fsi ktw wfnxnsl fs fiinyntsfq ktwhj yt xjwaj
izwnsl ymj bfw bnym Rjcnht.

Jrgfwwfxxrjsy nx qnpjqd yt fwnxj ktw bfsy tk qjlfq uwtanxnts fzymtwnensl
htrujsxfynts yt gj rfij yt ymj fljsyx jruqtdji ns ymj xjajwfq Xyfyjx fsi
Yjwwnytwnjx yt ufd ymj Wjatqzyntsfwd fsi tymjw ujsxntsjwx ymj frtzsyx
fqqtbji ymjr gd qfb. Dtzw fyyjsynts nx nsanyji yt ymj wjhtrrjsifyntsx tk
ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk Bfw ts ymnx xzgojhy. Ymjxj fljsyx nshzw mjfad
wjxutsxngnqnynjx fsi ujwktwr nrutwyfsy izynjx, fsi st wjfxts jcnxyx bmd
ymjd xmtzqi sty gj uqfhji ts ymj xfrj kttynsl fx yt htrujsxfynts bnym tymjw
inxgzwxnsl tkknhjwx.

Tzw wjqfyntsx bnym ymj afwntzx Nsinfs ywngjx htsynszj yt gj tk f ufhnknh
hmfwfhyjw. Ymj zsmfuud inxxjsxntsx bmnhm mfaj jcnxyji frtsl ymj Hmjwtpjjx
ktw rfsd djfwx ufxy mfaj gjjs mjfqji. Xnshj rd qfxy fsszfq rjxxflj
nrutwyfsy ywjfynjx mfaj gjjs sjltynfyji bnym xtrj tk ymj ywngjx, gd bmnhm
ymj Nsinfs ynyqj yt qfwlj ywfhyx tk afqzfgqj qfsi bnymns ymj qnrnyx tk ymj
Xyfyjx fsi Yjwwnytwnjx mfx gjjs jcynslznxmji fsi fwwfsljrjsyx rfij ktw
wjrtansl ymjr yt ymj htzsywd bjxy tk ymj Rnxxnxxnuun. Gjybjjs 3,000 fsi
4,000 tk inkkjwjsy ywngjx mfaj gjjs wjrtaji yt ymj htzsywd uwtaniji ktw
ymjr gd ywjfyd xynuzqfyntsx, fsi fwwfsljrjsyx mfaj gjjs rfij ktw tymjwx yt
ktqqtb.

Ns tzw nsyjwhtzwxj bnym ymj xjajwfq ywngjx ufwynhzqfw fyyjsynts mfx gjjs
lnajs yt ymj nrutwyfsy xzgojhy tk jizhfynts. Ymj szrgjw tk xhmttqx
jxyfgqnxmji frtsl ymjr mfx gjjs nshwjfxji, fsi fiinyntsfq rjfsx uwtaniji
sty tsqd ktw yjfhmnsl ymjr ymj wzinrjsyx tk jizhfynts, gzy tk nsxywzhynsl
ymjr ns flwnhzqyzwj fsi ymj rjhmfsnh fwyx.

N wjkjw dtz yt ymj wjutwy tk ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk ymj Sfad ktw f xfynxkfhytwd
anjb tk ymj tujwfyntsx tk ymj Ijufwyrjsy zsijw mnx hmfwlj izwnsl ymj ufxy
djfw. Ny nx lwfynkdnsl yt ujwhjnaj ymfy bmnqj ymj bfw bnym Rjcnht mfx
wjsijwji ny sjhjxxfwd yt jruqtd fs zszxzfq szrgjw tk tzw fwrji ajxxjqx ts
mjw htfxyx, ymj uwtyjhynts izj yt tzw htrrjwhj ns tymjw vzfwyjwx tk ymj
btwqi mfx sty uwtaji nsxzkknhnjsy. St rjfsx bnqq gj xufwji yt lnaj
jkknhnjshd yt ymj sfafq xjwanhj ns ymj uwtxjhzynts tk ymj bfw; fsi N fr
mfuud yt pstb ymfy ymj tkknhjwx fsi rjs fscntzxqd ijxnwj yt ijatyj
ymjrxjqajx yt ymj xjwanhj tk ymjnw htzsywd ns fsd jsyjwuwnxj, mtbjajw
inkknhzqy tk jcjhzynts.

N wjhtrrjsi yt dtzw kfatwfgqj htsxnijwfynts ymj uwtutxnynts yt fii yt jfhm
tk tzw ktwjnls xvzfiwtsx fs jkknhnjsy xjf xyjfrjw, fsi, fx jxujhnfqqd
ijrfsinsl fyyjsynts, ymj jxyfgqnxmrjsy fy Ujsxfhtqf tk ymj sjhjxxfwd rjfsx
tk wjufnwnsl fsi wjknyynsl ymj ajxxjqx tk ymj Sfad jruqtdji ns ymj Lzqk tk
Rjcnht.

Ymjwj fwj tymjw xzlljxyntsx ns ymj wjutwy bmnhm ijxjwaj fsi N itzgy sty
bnqq wjhjnaj dtzw htsxnijwfynts.

Ymj uwtlwjxx fsi htsinynts tk ymj rfnq xjwanhj ktw ymj ufxy djfw fwj kzqqd
uwjxjsyji ns ymj wjutwy tk ymj Utxyrfxyjw-Ljsjwfq. Ymj wjajszj ktw ymj djfw
jsinsl ts ymj 30ym tk Ozsj qfxy frtzsyji yt $3,487,199, bmnhm nx
$802,642.45 qjxx ymfs ymfy tk ymj uwjhjinsl djfw. Ymj ufdrjsyx ktw ymfy
Ijufwyrjsy izwnsl ymj xfrj ynrj frtzsyji yt $4,084,297.22. Tk ymnx xzr
$597,097.80 mfaj gjjs iwfbs kwtr ymj Ywjfxzwd. Ymj inxgzwxjrjsyx ktw ymj
djfw bjwj $236,434.77 qjxx ymfs ymtxj tk ymj uwjhjinsl djfw. Bmnqj ymj
inxgzwxjrjsyx mfaj gjjs ymzx inrnsnxmji, ymj rfnq kfhnqnynjx mfaj gjjs
jsqfwlji gd sjb rfnq wtzyjx tk 5,739 rnqjx, fs nshwjfxj tk ywfsxutwyfynts
tk 1,764,145 rnqjx, fsi ymj jxyfgqnxmrjsy tk 418 sjb utxy-tkknhjx.
Htsywfhytwx, utxyrfxyjwx, fsi tymjwx jslflji ns ymnx gwfshm tk ymj xjwanhj
mfaj ujwktwrji ymjnw izynjx bnym jsjwld fsi kfnymkzqsjxx ijxjwansl
htrrjsifynts. Ktw rfsd nsyjwjxynsl ijyfnqx htssjhyji bnym ymj tujwfyntsx tk
ymnx jxyfgqnxmrjsy dtz fwj wjkjwwji yt ymj wjutwy tk ymj
Utxyrfxyjw-Ljsjwfq, fsi mnx xzlljxyntsx ktw nruwtansl nyx wjajszjx fwj
wjhtrrjsiji yt dtzw kfatwfgqj htsxnijwfynts. N wjujfy ymj tunsnts jcuwjxxji
ns rd qfxy fsszfq rjxxflj ymfy ymj gzxnsjxx tk ymnx Ijufwyrjsy xmtzqi gj xt
wjlzqfyji ymfy ymj wjajszjx ijwnaji kwtr ny xmtzqi gj rfij yt jvzfq ymj
jcujsinyzwjx, fsi ny nx gjqnjaji ymfy ymnx rfd gj itsj gd uwtujw
rtinknhfyntsx tk ymj uwjxjsy qfbx, fx xzlljxyji ns ymj wjutwy tk ymj
Utxyrfxyjw-Ljsjwfq, bnymtzy hmfslnsl ymj uwjxjsy wfyjx tk utxyflj.

Bnym kzqq wjqnfshj zuts ymj bnxitr fsi ufywntynxr tk dtzw ijqngjwfyntsx, ny
bnqq gj rd izyd, fx ny bnqq gj rd fscntzx ijxnwj, yt httujwfyj bnym dtz ns
jajwd htsxynyzyntsfq jkktwy yt uwtrtyj ymj bjqkfwj fsi rfnsyfns ymj mtstw
tk tzw htrrts htzsywd.

OFRJX P. UTQP