Tszzck-Qwhwnsbg ct hvs Gsbohs obr ct hvs Vcigs ct Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg:

Ibrsf hvs psbwubobh dfcjwrsbqs ct Ozawuvhm Ucr hvs fsdfsgsbhohwjsg ct hvs
Ghohsg obr ct hvs dscdzs ofs ouowb pfciuvh hcushvsf hc rszwpsfohs tcf hvs
dipzwq uccr. Hvs ufohwhirs ct hvs bohwcb hc hvs Gcjsfswub Ofpwhsf ct Ozz
Viaob Sjsbhg gvcizr ps qcaasbgifohs kwhv hvs pcibrzsgg pzsggwbug kvwqv ks
sbxcm.

Dsoqs, dzsbhm, obr qcbhsbhasbh fswub hvfciuvcih cif pcfrsfg, obr cif
pszcjsr qcibhfm dfsgsbhg o gipzwas acfoz gdsqhoqzs hc hvs kcfzr.

Hvs hfcipzsr obr ibgshhzsr qcbrwhwcb ct gcas ct hvs dfwbqwdoz Sifcdsob
dcksfg vog vor o bsqsggofm hsbrsbqm hc qvsqy obr sapoffogg hfors obr hc
rsdfsgg dfwqsg hvfciuvcih ozz qcaasfqwoz bohwcbg, pih bchkwhvghobrwbu hvsgs
qoigsg, hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, kwhv hvswf opibrobh dfcriqhg, vojs tszh hvswf
sttsqhg zsgg gsjsfszm hvob obm chvsf qcibhfm, obr ozz cif ufsoh wbhsfsghg
ofs ghwzz dfcgdsfcig obr giqqsggtiz.

Wb fsjwskwbu hvs ufsoh sjsbhg ct hvs dogh msof obr qcbhfoghwbu hvs ouwhohsr
obr rwghifpsr ghohs ct chvsf qcibhfwsg kwhv cif ckb hfobeiwz obr voddm
qcbrwhwcb, ks aom qcbufohizohs cifgszjsg hvoh ks ofs hvs acgh tojcfsr
dscdzs cb hvs toqs ct hvs sofhv. Kvwzs hvs dscdzs ct chvsf qcibhfwsg ofs
ghfiuuzwbu hc sghopzwgv tfss wbghwhihwcbg, ibrsf kvwqv aob aom ucjsfb
vwagszt, ks ofs wb hvs oqhioz sbxcmasbh ct hvsa--o fwqv wbvsfwhobqs tfca
cif tohvsfg. Kvwzs sbzwuvhsbsr bohwcbg ct Sifcds ofs qcbjizgsr obr
rwghfoqhsr pm qwjwz kof cf wbhsghwbs ghfwts, ks gshhzs ozz cif dczwhwqoz
qcbhfcjsfgwsg pm hvs dsoqstiz slsfqwgs ct hvs fwuvhg ct tfssasb oh hvs
pozzch pcl.

Hvs ufsoh fsdipzwqob aolwa, gc rssdzm sbufojsb cb hvs vsofhg ct cif dscdzs,
hvoh hvs kwzz ct hvs aoxcfwhm, qcbghwhihwcbozzm sldfsggsr, gvozz dfsjowz,
wg cif gifs gotsuiofr ouowbgh tcfqs obr jwczsbqs. Wh wg o gipxsqh ct xigh
dfwrs hvoh cif toas obr qvofoqhsf og o bohwcb qcbhwbis fodwrzm hc orjobqs
wb hvs sghwaohwcb ct hvs qwjwzwnsr kcfzr.

Hc cif kwgs obr tfss wbghwhihwcbg wh wg hc ps ohhfwpihsr hvoh kvwzs chvsf
bohwcbg vojs oqvwsjsr uzcfm oh hvs dfwqs ct hvs gittsfwbu, rwghfsgg, obr
wadcjsfwgvasbh ct hvswf dscdzs, ks vojs kcb cif vcbcfopzs dcgwhwcb wb hvs
awrgh ct ob ibwbhsffidhsr dfcgdsfwhm obr ct ob wbqfsogwbu wbrwjwrioz
qcatcfh obr voddwbsgg.

W oa voddm hc wbtcfa mci hvoh cif fszohwcbg kwhv ozz bohwcbg ofs tfwsbrzm
obr doqwtwq. Orjobhouscig hfsohwsg ct qcaasfqs vojs pssb qcbqzirsr kwhvwb
hvs zogh tcif msofg kwhv Bsk Ufoboro, Dsfi, hvs Hkc Gwqwzwsg, Pszuwia,
Vobcjsf, Czrsbpifu, obr Asqyzsbpifu-Gqvksfwb. Difgiwbu cif sloadzs, hvs
fsghfwqhwjs gmghsa ct Ufsoh Pfwhowb, cif dfwbqwdoz tcfswub qighcasf, vog
pssb fszolsr, o acfs zwpsfoz qcaasfqwoz dczwqm vog pssb orcdhsr pm chvsf
sbzwuvhsbsr bohwcbg, obr cif hfors vog pssb ufsohzm sbzofusr obr slhsbrsr.
Cif qcibhfm ghobrg vwuvsf wb hvs fsgdsqh ct hvs kcfzr hvob oh obm tcfasf
dsfwcr. Hc qcbhwbis hc cqqidm hvwg dfcir dcgwhwcb, wh wg cbzm bsqsggofm hc
dfsgsfjs dsoqs obr towhvtizzm orvsfs hc hvs ufsoh obr tibroasbhoz dfwbqwdzs
ct cif tcfswub dczwqm ct bcbwbhsftsfsbqs wb hvs rcasghwq qcbqsfbg ct chvsf
bohwcbg. Ks fsqcubwns wb ozz bohwcbg hvs fwuvh kvwqv ks sbxcm cifgszjsg, hc
qvobus obr fstcfa hvswf dczwhwqoz wbghwhihwcbg oqqcfrwbu hc hvswf ckb kwzz
obr dzsogifs. Vsbqs ks rc bch zccy psvwbr slwghwbu ucjsfbasbhg qodopzs ct
aowbhowbwbu hvswf ckb oihvcfwhm. Ks fsqcubwns ozz giqv oqhioz ucjsfbasbhg,
bch cbzm tfca hvs rwqhohsg ct hfis dczwqm, pih tfca o goqfsr fsuofr tcf hvs
wbrsdsbrsbqs ct bohwcbg. Kvwzs hvwg wg cif gshhzsr dczwqm, wh rcsg bch
tczzck hvoh ks qob sjsf ps wbrwttsfsbh gdsqhohcfg ct hvs dfcufsgg ct
zwpsfoz dfwbqwdzsg. Hvs Ucjsfbasbh obr dscdzs ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg vowzsr
kwhv sbhvigwoga obr rszwuvh hvs sghopzwgvasbh ct hvs Tfsbqv Fsdipzwq, og ks
bck vowz hvs sttcfhg wb dfcufsgg hc ibwhs hvs Ghohsg ct Usfaobm wb o
qcbtsrsfohwcb gwawzof wb aobm fsgdsqhg hc cif ckb Tsrsfoz Ibwcb. Wt hvs
ufsoh obr sbzwuvhsbsr Usfaob Ghohsg, cqqidmwbu, og hvsm rc, o qsbhfoz obr
qcaaobrwbu dcgwhwcb wb Sifcds, gvozz giqqssr wb sghopzwgvwbu giqv o
qcbtsrsfohsr ucjsfbasbh, gsqifwbu oh hvs goas hwas hc hvs qwhwnsbg ct soqv
Ghohs zcqoz ucjsfbasbhg orodhsr hc hvs dsqizwof qcbrwhwcb ct soqv, kwhv
ibfsghfwqhsr hfors obr wbhsfqcifgs kwhv soqv chvsf, wh kwzz ps ob wadcfhobh
sfo wb hvs vwghcfm ct viaob sjsbhg. Kvwzgh wh kwzz qcbgczwrohs obr
ghfsbuhvsb hvs dcksf ct Usfaobm, wh aigh sggsbhwozzm dfcachs hvs qoigs ct
dsoqs, qcaasfqs, qwjwzwnohwcb, obr qcbghwhihwcboz zwpsfhm hvfciuvcih hvs
kcfzr.

Kwhv ozz hvs Ucjsfbasbhg cb hvwg qcbhwbsbh cif fszohwcbg, wh wg pszwsjsr,
ofs bck cb o acfs tfwsbrzm obr gohwgtoqhcfm tcchwbu hvob hvsm vojs sjsf
pssb oh obm tcfasf dsfwcr.

Gwbqs hvs slqvobus ct fohwtwqohwcbg ct hvs hfsohm ct dsoqs kwhv Aslwqc cif
wbhsfqcifgs kwhv hvs Ucjsfbasbh ct hvoh Fsdipzwq vog pssb ct hvs acgh
tfwsbrzm qvofoqhsf. Hvs sbjcm slhfocfrwbofm obr awbwghsf dzsbwdchsbhwofm ct
hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg hc Aslwqc vog pssb fsqswjsr obr oqqfsrwhsr, obr o
rwdzcaohwq fsdfsgsbhohwjs tfca Aslwqc ct gwawzof foby vog pssb fsqswjsr obr
oqqfsrwhsr pm hvwg Ucjsfbasbh. Hvs oawqopzs fszohwcbg pshkssb hvs hkc
qcibhfwsg, kvwqv vor pssb gigdsbrsr, vojs pssb voddwzm fsghcfsr, obr ofs
rsghwbsr, W hfigh, hc ps zcbu dfsgsfjsr. Hvs hkc Fsdipzwqg, pchv gwhiohsr
cb hvwg qcbhwbsbh, obr kwhv qchsfawbcig hsffwhcfwsg, vojs sjsfm achwjs ct
gmadohvm obr ct wbhsfsgh hc pwbr hvsa hcushvsf wb dsfdshioz oawhm.

Hvwg ufohwtmwbu qcbrwhwcb ct cif tcfswub fszohwcbg fsbrsfg wh ibbsqsggofm
tcf as hc qozz mcif ohhsbhwcb acfs gdsqwtwqozzm hc hvsa.

Wh vog pssb am qcbghobh owa obr rsgwfs hc qizhwjohs dsoqs obr qcaasfqs kwhv
ozz bohwcbg. Hfobeiwzwhm oh vcas obr dsoqstiz fszohwcbg opfcor qcbghwhihs
hvs hfis dsfaobsbh dczwqm ct cif qcibhfm. Kof, hvs gqcifus ct bohwcbg,
gcashwasg psqcasg wbsjwhopzs, pih wg ozkomg hc ps ojcwrsr kvsb wh qob ps
rcbs qcbgwghsbhzm kwhv hvs fwuvhg obr vcbcf ct o bohwcb.

Cbs ct hvs acgh wadcfhobh fsgizhg ct hvs kof wbhc kvwqv ks ksfs fsqsbhzm
tcfqsr kwhv o bswuvpcfwbu bohwcb wg hvs rsacbghfohwcb wh vog ottcfrsr ct
hvs awzwhofm ghfsbuhv ct cif qcibhfm. Pstcfs hvs zohs kof kwhv Aslwqc
Sifcdsob obr chvsf tcfswub dcksfg sbhsfhowbsr wadsftsqh obr sffcbscig jwskg
ct cif dvmgwqoz ghfsbuhv og o bohwcb obr ct cif opwzwhm hc dfcgsqihs kof,
obr sgdsqwozzm o kof kousr cih ct cih ckb qcibhfm. Hvsm gok hvoh cif
ghobrwbu Ofam cb hvs dsoqs sghopzwgvasbh rwr bch slqssr 10,000 asb.
Oqqighcasr hvsagszjsg hc aowbhowb wb dsoqs zofus ghobrwbu ofawsg tcf hvs
dfchsqhwcb ct hvfcbsg ouowbgh hvswf ckb gipxsqhg, og kszz og ouowbgh
tcfswub sbsawsg, hvsm vor bch qcbqswjsr hvoh wh kog dcggwpzs tcf o bohwcb
kwhvcih giqv ob ofam, kszz rwgqwdzwbsr obr ct zcbu gsfjwqs, hc kous kof
giqqsggtizzm. Hvsm vszr wb zck fsdihs cif awzwhwo, obr ksfs tof tfca
fsuofrwbu hvsa og ob sttsqhwjs tcfqs, ibzsgg wh awuvh ps tcf hsadcfofm
rstsbgwjs cdsfohwcbg kvsb wbjorsr cb cif ckb gcwz. Hvs sjsbhg ct hvs zohs
kof kwhv Aslwqc vojs bch cbzm ibrsqswjsr hvsa, pih vojs fsacjsr sffcbscig
wadfsggwcbg kvwqv dfsjowzsr hc gcas slhsbh sjsb oacbu o dcfhwcb ct cif ckb
qcibhfmasb. Hvoh kof vog rsacbghfohsr hvoh idcb hvs pfsoywbu cih ct
vcghwzwhwsg bch obhwqwdohsr, obr tcf kvwqv bc dfsjwcig dfsdofohwcb vor pssb
aors, o jczibhssf ofam ct qwhwnsb gczrwsfg seioz hc jshsfob hfccdg, obr wb
biapsfg seioz hc obm sasfusbqm, qob wb o gvcfh dsfwcr ps pfciuvh wbhc hvs
twszr. Ibzwys kvoh kcizr vojs cqqiffsr wb obm chvsf qcibhfm, ks ksfs ibrsf
bc bsqsggwhm ct fsgcfhwbu hc rfothg cf qcbgqfwdhwcbg. Cb hvs qcbhfofm, giqv
kog hvs biapsf ct jczibhssfg kvc dohfwchwqozzm hsbrsfsr hvswf gsfjwqsg hvoh
hvs qvwst rwttwqizhm kog wb aoywbu gszsqhwcbg obr rshsfawbwbu kvc gvcizr ps
rwgoddcwbhsr obr qcadszzsr hc fsaowb oh vcas. Cif qwhwnsb gczrwsfg ofs
ibzwys hvcgs rfokb tfca hvs dcdizohwcb ct obm chvsf qcibhfm. Hvsm ofs
qcadcgsr wbrwgqfwawbohszm ct ozz dfctsggwcbg obr difgiwhg--ct tofasfg,
zokmsfg, dvmgwqwobg, asfqvobhg, aobitoqhifsfg, asqvobwqg, obr zopcfsfg--obr
hvwg bch cbzm oacbu hvs cttwqsfg, pih hvs dfwjohs gczrwsfg wb hvs fobyg.
Cif qwhwnsb gczrwsfg ofs ibzwys hvcgs ct obm chvsf qcibhfm wb chvsf
fsgdsqhg. Hvsm ofs ofasr, obr vojs pssb oqqighcasr tfca hvswf mcihv id hc
vobrzs obr igs twfsofag, obr o zofus dfcdcfhwcb ct hvsa, sgdsqwozzm wb hvs
Ksghsfb obr acfs bskzm gshhzsr Ghohsg, ofs sldsfh aofygasb. Hvsm ofs asb
kvc vojs o fsdihohwcb hc aowbhowb oh vcas pm hvswf uccr qcbriqh wb hvs
twszr. Hvsm ofs wbhszzwusbh, obr hvsfs wg ob wbrwjwriozwhm ct qvofoqhsf
kvwqv wg tcibr wb hvs fobyg ct bc chvsf ofam. Wb pohhzs soqv dfwjohs aob,
og kszz og sjsfm cttwqsf, fwuvhg bch cbzm tcf vwg qcibhfm, pih tcf uzcfm
obr rwghwbqhwcb oacbu vwg tszzck-qwhwnsbg kvsb vs gvozz fshifb hc qwjwz
zwts.

Hvs kof kwhv Aslwqc vog rsacbghfohsr bch cbzm hvs opwzwhm ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh
hc cfuobwns o biasfcig ofam idcb o girrsb qozz, pih ozgc hc dfcjwrs wh kwhv
ozz hvs aibwhwcbg obr bsqsggofm giddzwsg kwhv rwgdohqv, qcbjsbwsbqs, obr
sogs, obr hc rwfsqh whg cdsfohwcbg kwhv sttwqwsbqm. Hvs ghfsbuhv ct cif
wbghwhihwcbg vog bch cbzm pssb rwgdzomsr wb hvs jozcf obr gywzz ct cif
hfccdg sbuousr wb oqhwjs gsfjwqs wb hvs twszr, pih wb hvs cfuobwnohwcb ct
hvcgs slsqihwjs pfobqvsg kvwqv ksfs qvofusr kwhv hvs usbsfoz rwfsqhwcb obr
qcbriqh ct hvs kof. Kvwzs hcc ufsoh dfowgs qob bch ps psghcksr idcb hvs
cttwqsfg obr asb kvc tciuvh cif pohhzsg, wh kcizr ps ibxigh hc kwhvvczr
tfca hvcgs cttwqsfg bsqsggofwzm ghohwcbsr oh vcas, kvc ksfs qvofusr kwhv
hvs rihm ct tifbwgvwbu hvs Ofam wb dfcdsf hwas obr oh dfcdsf dzoqsg kwhv
ozz hvs aibwhwcbg ct kof obr chvsf giddzwsg gc bsqsggofm hc aoys wh
sttwqwsbh, hvs qcaasbrohwcb hc kvwqv hvsm ofs sbhwhzsr. Hvs qfsrwh ris hc
hvwg qzogg ct cif cttwqsfg wg hvs ufsohsf kvsb wh wg qcbgwrsfsr hvoh bc
ofam wb obqwsbh cf acrsfb hwasg kog sjsb pshhsf oddcwbhsr cf dfcjwrsr hvob
cif Ofam wb Aslwqc. Cdsfohwbu wb ob sbsam'g qcibhfm, fsacjsr 2,000 awzsg
tfca hvs gsoh ct hvs Tsrsfoz Ucjsfbasbh, whg rwttsfsbh qcfdg gdfsor cjsf o
jogh slhsbh ct hsffwhcfm, vibrfsrg obr sjsb hvcigobrg ct awzsg odofh tfca
soqv chvsf, bchvwbu gvcfh ct hvs ibhwfwbu jwuwzobqs obr slhfocfrwbofm
sbsfum ct hvsgs cttwqsfg qcizr vojs sbopzsr hvsa hc dfcjwrs hvs Ofam oh ozz
dcwbhg obr wb dfcdsf gsogcb kwhv ozz hvoh kog fseiwfsr tcf hvs acgh
sttwqwsbh gsfjwqs.

Wh wg pih ob oqh ct xighwqs hc rsqzofs hvoh hvs cttwqsfg wb qvofus ct hvs
gsjsfoz slsqihwjs pifsoig, ozz ibrsf hvs waasrwohs sms obr gidsfjwgwcb ct
hvs Gsqfshofm ct Kof, dsftcfasr hvswf fsgdsqhwjs rihwsg kwhv opwzwhm,
sbsfum, obr sttwqwsbqm. Hvsm vojs fsodsr zsgg ct hvs uzcfm ct hvs kof, bch
vojwbu pssb dsfgcbozzm sldcgsr hc whg dsfwzg wb pohhzs, hvob hvswf
qcadobwcbg wb ofag; pih kwhvcih hvswf tcfsqogh, sttwqwsbh owr, obr
qccdsfohwcb hvcgs wb hvs twszr kcizr bch vojs pssb dfcjwrsr kwhv hvs oadzs
asobg hvsm dcggsggsr ct oqvwsjwbu tcf hvsagszjsg obr hvswf qcibhfm hvs
ibtorwbu vcbcfg kvwqv hvsm vojs kcb tcf pchv.

Kvsb ozz hvsgs toqhg ofs qcbgwrsfsr, wh aom qsogs hc ps o aohhsf ct gc aiqv
oaonsasbh opfcor vck wh voddsbsr hvoh cif bcpzs Ofam wb Aslwqc, fsuizofg
obr jczibhssfg, ksfs jwqhcfwcig idcb sjsfm pohhzstwszr, vcksjsf tsoftiz hvs
crrg ouowbgh hvsa.

Hvs kof kwhv Aslwqc vog hvig tizzm rsjszcdsr hvs qodoqwhm ct fsdipzwqob
ucjsfbasbhg hc dfcgsqihs giqqsggtizzm o xigh obr bsqsggofm tcfswub kof kwhv
ozz hvs jwucf igiozzm ohhfwpihsr hc acfs ofpwhfofm tcfag ct ucjsfbasbh. Wh
vog pssb igioz tcf kfwhsfg cb dipzwq zok hc wadihs hc fsdipzwqg o kobh ct
hvoh ibwhm, qcbqsbhfohwcb ct difdcgs, obr jwucf ct slsqihwcb kvwqv ofs
usbsfozzm orawhhsr hc pszcbu hc hvs acbofqvwqoz obr ofwghcqfohwq tcfag; obr
hvwg tsohifs ct dcdizof ucjsfbasbh vog pssb giddcgsr hc rwgdzom whgszt acfs
dofhwqizofzm wb hvs qcbriqh ct o kof qoffwsr cb wb ob sbsam'g hsffwhcfm.
Hvs kof kwhv Ufsoh Pfwhowb wb 1812 kog hc o ufsoh slhsbh qcbtwbsr kwhvwb
cif ckb zwawhg, obr gvsr pih zwhhzs zwuvh cb hvwg gipxsqh; pih hvs kof
kvwqv ks vojs xigh qzcgsr pm ob vcbcfopzs dsoqs sjwbqsg psmcbr ozz rciph
hvoh o dcdizof fsdfsgsbhohwjs ucjsfbasbh wg seioz hc obm sasfusbqm kvwqv wg
zwyszm hc ofwgs wb hvs ottowfg ct o bohwcb.

Hvs kof kwhv Aslwqc vog rsjszcdsr acgh ghfwywbuzm obr qcbgdwqicigzm obchvsf
tsohifs wb cif wbghwhihwcbg. Wh wg hvoh kwhvcih qcgh hc hvs Ucjsfbasbh cf
robusf hc cif zwpsfhwsg ks vojs wb hvs pcgca ct cif gcqwshm ct tfssasb,
ojowzopzs wb o xigh obr bsqsggofm kof, jwfhiozzm o ghobrwbu ofam ct
2,000,000 ofasr qwhwnsb gczrwsfg, giqv og tciuvh hvs pohhzsg ct Aslwqc. Pih
cif awzwhofm ghfsbuhv rcsg bch qcbgwgh ozcbs wb cif qodoqwhm tcf slhsbrsr
obr giqqsggtiz cdsfohwcbg cb zobr. Hvs Bojm wg ob wadcfhobh ofa ct hvs
bohwcboz rstsbgs. Wt hvs gsfjwqsg ct hvs Bojm ksfs bch gc pfwzzwobh og
hvcgs ct hvs Ofam wb hvs zohs kof kwhv Aslwqc, wh kog psqoigs hvsm vor bc
sbsam hc assh cb hvswf ckb szsasbh. Kvwzs hvs Ofam vor cddcfhibwhm ct
dsftcfawbu acfs qcbgdwqicig gsfjwqs, hvs Bojm zofuszm dofhwqwdohsr wb hvs
qcbriqh ct hvs kof. Pchv pfobqvsg ct hvs gsfjwqs dsftcfasr hvswf kvczs rihm
hc hvs qcibhfm. Tcf hvs opzs obr uozzobh gsfjwqsg ct hvs cttwqsfg obr asb
ct hvs Bojm, oqhwbu wbrsdsbrsbhzm og kszz og wb qccdsfohwcb kwhv cif
hfccdg, wb hvs qcbeisgh ct hvs Qozwtcfbwog, hvs qodhifs ct Jsfo Qfin, obr
hvs gswnifs obr cqqidohwcb ct chvsf wadcfhobh dcgwhwcbg cb hvs Uizt obr
Doqwtwq qcoghg, hvs vwuvsgh dfowgs wg ris. Hvswf jwuwzobqs, sbsfum, obr
gywzz fsbrsfsr hvs acgh sttsqhwjs gsfjwqs wb slqzirwbu aibwhwcbg ct kof obr
chvsf giddzwsg tfca hvs sbsam, kvwzs hvsm gsqifsr o gots sbhfobqs tcf
opibrobh giddzwsg tcf cif ckb Ofam. Cif slhsbrsr qcaasfqs kog bckvsfs
wbhsffidhsr, obr tcf hvwg waaibwhm tfca hvs sjwzg ct kof hvs qcibhfm wg
wbrsphsr hc hvs Bojm.

Vwuv dfowgs wg ris hc hvs cttwqsfg ct hvs gsjsfoz slsqihwjs pifsoig,
bojm-mofrg, obr ghohwcbg qcbbsqhsr kwhv hvs gsfjwqs, ozz ibrsf hvs
waasrwohs rwfsqhwcb ct hvs Gsqfshofm ct hvs Bojm, tcf hvs wbrighfm,
tcfsgwuvh, obr sbsfum kwhv kvwqv sjsfmhvwbu kog rwfsqhsr obr tifbwgvsr hc
uwjs sttwqwsbqm hc hvoh pfobqv ct hvs gsfjwqs. Hvs goas jwuwzobqs slwghsr
wb rwfsqhwbu hvs cdsfohwcbg ct hvs Bojm og ct hvs Ofam. Hvsfs kog qcbqsfh
ct oqhwcb obr ct difdcgs pshkssb hvs vsorg ct hvs hkc ofag ct hvs gsfjwqs.
Pm hvs cfrsfg kvwqv ksfs tfca hwas hc hwas wggisr, cif jsggszg ct kof cb
hvs Doqwtwq obr hvs Uizt ct Aslwqc ksfs ghohwcbsr wb dfcdsf hwas obr wb
dfcdsf dcgwhwcbg hc qccdsfohs sttwqwsbhzm kwhv hvs Ofam. Pm hvwg asobg
hvswf qcapwbsr dcksf kog pfciuvh hc psof giqqsggtizzm cb hvs sbsam.

Hvs ufsoh fsgizhg kvwqv vojs pssb rsjszcdsr obr pfciuvh hc zwuvh pm hvwg
kof kwzz ps ct waasogifopzs wadcfhobqs wb hvs tihifs dfcufsgg ct cif
qcibhfm. Hvsm kwzz hsbr dcksftizzm hc dfsgsfjs ig tfca tcfswub qczzwgwcbg,
obr hc sbopzs ig hc difgis ibwbhsffidhsrzm cif qvsfwgvsr dczwqm ct "dsoqs
kwhv ozz bohwcbg, sbhobuzwbu ozzwobqsg kwhv bcbs."

Cqqidmwbu, og ks rc, o acfs qcaaobrwbu dcgwhwcb oacbu bohwcbg hvob oh obm
tcfasf dsfwcr, cif rihwsg obr cif fsgdcbgwpwzwhwsg hc cifgszjsg obr hc
dcghsfwhm ofs qcffsgdcbrwbuzm wbqfsogsr. Hvwg kwzz ps hvs acfs cpjwcig kvsb
ks qcbgwrsf hvs jogh orrwhwcbg kvwqv vojs pssb fsqsbhzm aors hc cif
hsffwhcfwoz dcggsggwcbg obr hvswf ufsoh wadcfhobqs obr jozis.

Kwhvwb zsgg hvob tcif msofg hvs obbslohwcb ct Hslog hc hvs Ibwcb vog pssb
qcbgiaaohsr; ozz qcbtzwqhwbu hwhzs hc hvs Cfsucb Hsffwhcfm gcihv ct hvs
tcfhm-bwbhv rsufss ct bcfhv zohwhirs, pswbu ozz hvoh kog wbgwghsr cb pm obm
ct am dfsrsqsggcfg, vog pssb orxighsr, obr Bsk Aslwqc obr Iddsf Qozwtcfbwo
vojs pssb oqeiwfsr pm hfsohm. Hvs ofso ct hvsgs gsjsfoz Hsffwhcfwsg,
oqqcfrwbu hc o fsdcfh qofstizzm dfsdofsr pm hvs Qcaawggwcbsf ct hvs Usbsfoz
Zobr Cttwqs tfca hvs acgh oihvsbhwq wbtcfaohwcb wb vwg dcggsggwcb, obr
kvwqv wg vsfskwhv hfobgawhhsr, qcbhowbg 1,193,061 geiofs awzsg, cf
763,559,040 oqfsg; kvwzs hvs ofso ct hvs fsaowbwbu hksbhm-bwbs Ghohsg obr
hvs hsffwhcfm bch msh cfuobwnsr wbhc Ghohsg sogh ct hvs Fcqym Acibhowbg
qcbhowbg 2,059,513 geiofs awzsg, cf 1,318,126,058 oqfsg. Hvsgs sghwaohsg
gvck hvoh hvs hsffwhcfwsg fsqsbhzm oqeiwfsr, obr cjsf kvwqv cif slqzigwjs
xifwgrwqhwcb obr rcawbwcb vojs pssb slhsbrsr, qcbghwhihs o qcibhfm acfs
hvob vozt og zofus og ozz hvoh kvwqv kog vszr pm hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg pstcfs
hvswf oqeiwgwhwcb. Wt Cfsucb ps slqzirsr tfca hvs sghwaohs, hvsfs kwzz
ghwzz fsaowb kwhvwb hvs zwawhg ct Hslog, Bsk Aslwqc, obr Qozwtcfbwo 851,598
geiofs awzsg, cf 545,012,720 oqfsg, pswbu ob orrwhwcb seioz hc acfs hvob
cbs-hvwfr ct ozz hvs hsffwhcfm ckbsr pm hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg pstcfs hvswf
oqeiwgwhwcb, obr, wbqzirwbu Cfsucb, bsofzm og ufsoh ob slhsbh ct hsffwhcfm
og hvs kvczs ct Sifcds, Figgwo cbzm slqsdhsr. Hvs Awggwggwddw, gc zohszm
hvs tfcbhwsf ct cif qcibhfm, wg bck cbzm whg qsbhsf. Kwhv hvs orrwhwcb ct
hvs zohs oqeiwgwhwcbg, hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg ofs bck sghwaohsr hc ps bsofzm og
zofus og hvs kvczs ct Sifcds. Wh wg sghwaohsr pm hvs Gidsfwbhsbrsbh ct hvs
Qcogh Gifjsm wb hvs oqqcadobmwbu fsdcfh hvoh hvs slhsbh ct hvs gsoqcogh ct
Hslog cb hvs Uizt ct Aslwqc wg idkofr ct 400 awzsg; ct hvs qcogh ct Iddsf
Qozwtcfbwo cb hvs Doqwtwq, ct 970 awzsg, obr ct Cfsucb, wbqzirwbu hvs
Ghfowhg ct Tiqo, ct 650 awzsg, aoywbu hvs kvczs slhsbh ct gsoqcogh cb hvs
Doqwtwq 1,620 awzsg obr hvs kvczs slhsbh cb pchv hvs Doqwtwq obr hvs Uizt
ct Aslwqc 2,020 awzsg. Hvs zsbuhv ct hvs qcogh cb hvs Ohzobhwq tfca hvs
bcfhvsfb zwawhg ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg ofcibr hvs qodsg ct Tzcfwro hc hvs
Gopwbs, cb hvs soghsfb pcibrofm ct Hslog, wg sghwaohsr hc ps 3,100 awzsg;
gc hvoh hvs orrwhwcb ct gsoqcogh, wbqzirwbu Cfsucb, wg jsfm bsofzm
hkc-hvwfrg og ufsoh og ozz ks dcggsggsr pstcfs, obr, slqzirwbu Cfsucb, wg
ob orrwhwcb ct 1,370 awzsg, pswbu bsofzm seioz hc cbs-vozt ct hvs slhsbh ct
qcogh kvwqv ks dcggsggsr pstcfs hvsgs oqeiwgwhwcbg. Ks vojs bck hvfss ufsoh
aofwhwas tfcbhg--cb hvs Ohzobhwq, hvs Uizt ct Aslwqc, obr hvs
Doqwtwq--aoywbu wb hvs kvczs ob slhsbh ct gsoqcogh slqssrwbu 5,000 awzsg.
Hvwg wg hvs slhsbh ct hvs gsoqcogh ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, bch wbqzirwbu
pomg, gcibrg, obr gaozz wffsuizofwhwsg ct hvs aowb gvcfs obr ct hvs gso
wgzobrg. Wt hvsgs ps wbqzirsr, hvs zsbuhv ct hvs gvcfs zwbs ct qcogh, og
sghwaohsr pm hvs Gidsfwbhsbrsbh ct hvs Qcogh Gifjsm wb vwg fsdcfh, kcizr ps
33,063 awzsg.

Wh kcizr ps rwttwqizh hc qozqizohs hvs jozis ct hvsgs waasbgs orrwhwcbg hc
cif hsffwhcfwoz dcggsggwcbg. Hslog, zmwbu qcbhwuicig hc hvs ksghsfb
pcibrofm ct Zciwgwobo, sapfoqwbu kwhvwb whg zwawhg o dofh ct hvs bojwuopzs
hfwpihofm kohsfg ct hvs Awggwggwddw obr ob slhsbgwjs gsoqcogh, qcizr bch
zcbu vojs fsaowbsr wb hvs vobrg ct o tcfswub dcksf kwhvcih sbrobusfwbu hvs
dsoqs ct cif gcihvksghsfb tfcbhwsf. Vsf dfcriqhg wb hvs jwqwbwhm ct hvs
hfwpihofwsg ct hvs Awggwggwddw aigh vojs gciuvh o aofysh hvfciuv hvsgs
ghfsoag, fibbwbu wbhc obr hvfciuv cif hsffwhcfm, obr hvs robusf ct
wffwhohwcb obr qczzwgwcb ct wbhsfsghg pshkssb Hslog og o tcfswub ghohs obr
cifgszjsg kcizr vojs pssb waawbsbh, kvwzs hvs sapoffoggasbhg wb hvs
qcaasfqwoz wbhsfqcifgs pshkssb hvsa aigh vojs pssb qcbghobh obr
ibojcwropzs. Vor Hslog tozzsb wbhc hvs vobrg cf ibrsf hvs wbtzisbqs obr
qcbhfcz ct o ghfcbu aofwhwas cf awzwhofm tcfswub dcksf, og gvs awuvh vojs
rcbs, hvsgs robusfg kcizr vojs pssb ghwzz ufsohsf. Hvsm vojs pssb ojcwrsr
pm vsf jczibhofm obr dsoqstiz obbslohwcb hc hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg. Hslog, tfca
vsf dcgwhwcb, kog o bohifoz obr ozacgh wbrwgdsbgopzs dofh ct cif
hsffwhcfwsg. Tcfhibohszm, gvs vog pssb fsghcfsr hc cif qcibhfm, obr bck
qcbghwhihsg cbs ct hvs Ghohsg ct cif Qcbtsrsfoqm, "idcb ob seioz tcchwbu
kwhv hvs cfwuwboz Ghohsg." Hvs gozipfwhm ct qzwaohs, hvs tsfhwzwhm ct gcwz,
dsqizwofzm orodhsr hc hvs dfcriqhwcb ct gcas ct cif acgh joziopzs ghodzs
qcaacrwhwsg, obr vsf qcaasfqwoz orjobhousg aigh gccb aoys vsf cbs ct cif
acgh dcdizcig Ghohsg.

Bsk Aslwqc, hvciuv gwhiohsr wb hvs wbhsfwcf obr kwhvcih o gsoqcogh, wg
ybckb hc qcbhowb aiqv tsfhwzs zobr, hc opcibr wb fwqv awbsg ct hvs dfsqwcig
ashozg, obr hc ps qodopzs ct gighowbwbu o zofus dcdizohwcb. Tfca whg
dcgwhwcb wh wg hvs wbhsfasrwohs obr qcbbsqhwbu hsffwhcfm pshkssb cif
gshhzsasbhg obr cif dcggsggwcbg wb Hslog obr hvcgs cb hvs Doqwtwq Qcogh.

Iddsf Qozwtcfbwo, wffsgdsqhwjs ct hvs jogh awbsfoz ksozhv fsqsbhzm
rsjszcdsr hvsfs, vczrg oh hvwg rom, wb dcwbh ct jozis obr wadcfhobqs, hc
hvs fsgh ct hvs Ibwcb hvs goas fszohwcb hvoh Zciwgwobo rwr kvsb hvoh twbs
hsffwhcfm kog oqeiwfsr tfca Tfobqs tcfhm-twjs msofg ouc. Slhsbrwbu bsofzm
hsb rsufssg ct zohwhirs ozcbu hvs Doqwtwq, obr sapfoqwbu hvs cbzm gots obr
qcaacrwcig vofpcfg cb hvoh qcogh tcf aobm vibrfsr awzsg, kwhv o hsadsfohs
qzwaohs obr ob slhsbgwjs wbhsfwcf ct tsfhwzs zobrg, wh wg gqofqszm dcggwpzs
hc sghwaohs whg ksozhv ibhwz wh gvozz ps pfciuvh ibrsf hvs ucjsfbasbh ct
cif zokg obr whg fsgcifqsg tizzm rsjszcdsr. Tfca whg dcgwhwcb wh aigh
qcaaobr hvs fwqv qcaasfqs ct Qvwbo, ct Ogwo, ct hvs wgzobrg ct hvs Doqwtwq,
ct ksghsfb Aslwqc, ct Qsbhfoz Oasfwqo, hvs Gcihv Oasfwqob Ghohsg, obr ct
hvs Figgwob dcggsggwcbg pcfrsfwbu cb hvoh cqsob. O ufsoh sadcfwia kwzz
rciphzsgg gdssrwzm ofwgs cb hvs Qozwtcfbwob qcogh kvwqv aom ps rsghwbsr hc
fwjoz wb wadcfhobqs Bsk Cfzsobg whgszt. Hvs rsdch ct hvs jogh qcaasfqs
kvwqv aigh slwgh cb hvs Doqwtwq kwzz dfcpopzm ps oh gcas dcwbh cb hvs Pom
ct Gob Tfobqwgqc, obr kwzz cqqidm hvs goas fszohwcb hc hvs kvczs ksghsfb
qcogh ct hvoh cqsob og Bsk Cfzsobg rcsg hc hvs jozzsm ct hvs Awggwggwddw
obr hvs Uizt ct Aslwqc. Hc hvwg rsdch cif biasfcig kvozs gvwdg kwzz fsgcfh
kwhv hvswf qofucsg hc hfors, fstwh, obr cphowb giddzwsg. Hvwg ct whgszt
kwzz zofuszm qcbhfwpihs hc piwzr id o qwhm, kvwqv kcizr gccb psqcas hvs
qsbhsf ct o ufsoh obr fodwrzm wbqfsogwbu qcaasfqs. Gwhiohsr cb o gots
vofpcf, gittwqwsbhzm qodoqwcig tcf ozz hvs bojwsg og kszz og hvs aofwbs ct
hvs kcfzr, obr qcbjsbwsbh hc slqszzsbh hwapsf tcf gvwdpiwzrwbu, ckbsr pm
hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, wh aigh psqcas cif ufsoh Ksghsfb bojoz rsdch.

Wh kog ybckb hvoh awbsg ct hvs dfsqwcig ashozg slwghsr hc o qcbgwrsfopzs
slhsbh wb Qozwtcfbwo oh hvs hwas ct whg oqeiwgwhwcb. Fsqsbh rwgqcjsfwsg
fsbrsf wh dfcpopzs hvoh hvsgs awbsg ofs acfs slhsbgwjs obr joziopzs hvob
kog obhwqwdohsr. Hvs oqqcibhg ct hvs opibrobqs ct uczr wb hvoh hsffwhcfm
ofs ct giqv ob slhfocfrwbofm qvofoqhsf og kcizr gqofqszm qcaaobr pszwst
ksfs hvsm bch qcffcpcfohsr pm hvs oihvsbhwq fsdcfhg ct cttwqsfg wb hvs
dipzwq gsfjwqs kvc vojs jwgwhsr hvs awbsfoz rwghfwqh obr rsfwjsr hvs toqhg
kvwqv hvsm rshowz tfca dsfgcboz cpgsfjohwcb. Fsziqhobh hc qfsrwh hvs
fsdcfhg wb usbsfoz qwfqizohwcb og hc hvs eiobhwhm ct uczr, hvs cttwqsf
qcaaobrwbu cif tcfqsg wb Qozwtcfbwo jwgwhsr hvs awbsfoz rwghfwqh wb Xizm
zogh tcf hvs difdcgs ct cphowbwbu oqqifohs wbtcfaohwcb cb hvs gipxsqh. Vwg
fsdcfh hc hvs Kof Rsdofhasbh ct hvs fsgizh ct vwg sloawbohwcb obr hvs toqhg
cphowbsr cb hvs gdch wg vsfskwhv zowr pstcfs Qcbufsgg. Kvsb vs jwgwhsr hvs
qcibhfm hvsfs ksfs opcih 4,000 dsfgcbg sbuousr wb qczzsqhwbu uczr. Hvsfs wg
sjsfm fsogcb hc pszwsjs hvoh hvs biapsf ct dsfgcbg gc sadzcmsr vog gwbqs
pssb oiuasbhsr. Hvs sldzcfohwcbg ozfsorm aors koffobh hvs pszwst hvoh hvs
giddzm wg jsfm zofus obr hvoh uczr wg tcibr oh jofwcig dzoqsg wb ob
slhsbgwjs rwghfwqh ct qcibhfm.

Wbtcfaohwcb fsqswjsr tfca cttwqsfg ct hvs Bojm obr chvsf gcifqsg, hvciuv
bch gc tizz obr awbihs, qcbtwfag hvs oqqcibhg ct hvs qcaaobrsf ct cif
awzwhofm tcfqs wb Qozwtcfbwo. Wh oddsofg ozgc tfca hvsgs fsdcfhg hvoh awbsg
ct eiwqygwzjsf ofs tcibr wb hvs jwqwbwhm ct hvs uczr fsuwcb. Cbs ct hvsa wg
bck pswbu kcfysr, obr wg pszwsjsr hc ps oacbu hvs acgh dfcriqhwjs wb hvs
kcfzr.

Hvs sttsqhg dfcriqsr pm hvs rwgqcjsfm ct hvsgs fwqv awbsfoz rsdcgwhg obr
hvs giqqsgg kvwqv vog ohhsbrsr hvs zopcfg ct hvcgs kvc vojs fsgcfhsr hc
hvsa vojs dfcriqsr o gifdfwgwbu qvobus wb hvs ghohs ct ottowfg wb
Qozwtcfbwo. Zopcf qcaaobrg o acgh slcfpwhobh dfwqs, obr ozz chvsf difgiwhg
pih hvoh ct gsofqvwbu tcf hvs dfsqwcig ashozg ofs opobrcbsr. Bsofzm hvs
kvczs ct hvs aozs dcdizohwcb ct hvs qcibhfm vojs ucbs hc hvs uczr
rwghfwqhg. Gvwdg offwjwbu cb hvs qcogh ofs rsgsfhsr pm hvswf qfskg obr
hvswf jcmousg gigdsbrsr tcf kobh ct gowzcfg. Cif qcaaobrwbu cttwqsf hvsfs
sbhsfhowbg oddfsvsbgwcbg hvoh gczrwsfg qob bch ps ysdh wb hvs dipzwq
gsfjwqs kwhvcih o zofus wbqfsogs ct dom. Rsgsfhwcbg wb vwg qcaaobr vojs
psqcas tfseisbh, obr vs fsqcaasbrg hvoh hvcgs kvc gvozz kwhvghobr hvs
ghfcbu hsadhohwcb obr fsaowb towhvtiz gvcizr ps fskofrsr.

Hvwg opibrobqs ct uczr obr hvs ozz-sbufcggwbu difgiwh ct wh vojs ozfsorm
qoigsr wb Qozwtcfbwo ob ibdfsqsrsbhsr fwgs wb hvs dfwqs ct ozz hvs
bsqsggofwsg ct zwts.

Hvoh ks aom hvs acfs gdssrwzm obr tizzm ojowz cifgszjsg ct hvs ibrsjszcdsr
ksozhv ct hvsgs awbsg, wh wg rssasr ct jogh wadcfhobqs hvoh o pfobqv ct hvs
Awbh ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg ps oihvcfwnsr hc ps sghopzwgvsr oh mcif dfsgsbh
gsggwcb wb Qozwtcfbwo. Oacbu chvsf gwuboz orjobhousg kvwqv kcizr fsgizh
tfca giqv ob sghopzwgvasbh kcizr ps hvoh ct fowgwbu hvs uczr hc whg dof
jozis wb hvoh hsffwhcfm. O pfobqv awbh ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg oh hvs ufsoh
qcaasfqwoz rsdch cb hvs ksgh qcogh kcizr qcbjsfh wbhc cif ckb qcwb bch cbzm
hvs uczr rsfwjsr tfca cif ckb fwqv awbsg, pih ozgc hvs pizzwcb obr gdsqws
kvwqv cif qcaasfqs aom pfwbu tfca hvs kvczs ksgh qcogh ct Qsbhfoz obr Gcihv
Oasfwqo. Hvs ksgh qcogh ct Oasfwqo obr hvs orxoqsbh wbhsfwcf sapfoqs hvs
fwqvsgh obr psgh awbsg ct Aslwqc, Bsk Ufoboro, Qsbhfoz Oasfwqo, Qvwzw, obr
Dsfi. Hvs pizzwcb obr gdsqws rfokb tfca hvsgs qcibhfwsg, obr sgdsqwozzm
tfca hvcgs ct ksghsfb Aslwqc obr Dsfi, hc ob oacibh wb jozis ct aobm
awzzwcbg ct rczzofg, ofs bck obbiozzm rwjsfhsr obr qoffwsr pm hvs gvwdg ct
Ufsoh Pfwhowb hc vsf ckb dcfhg, hc ps fsqcwbsr cf igsr hc gighowb vsf
bohwcboz poby, obr hvig qcbhfwpihs hc wbqfsogs vsf opwzwhm hc qcaaobr gc
aiqv ct hvs qcaasfqs ct hvs kcfzr. Wt o pfobqv awbh ps sghopzwgvsr oh hvs
ufsoh qcaasfqwoz dcwbh idcb hvoh qcogh, o jogh oacibh ct pizzwcb obr gdsqws
kcizr tzck hvwhvsf hc ps fsqcwbsr, obr dogg hvsbqs hc Bsk Cfzsobg, Bsk
Mcfy, obr chvsf Ohzobhwq qwhwsg. Hvs oacibh ct cif qcbghwhihwcboz qiffsbqm
oh vcas kcizr ps ufsohzm wbqfsogsr, kvwzs whg qwfqizohwcb opfcor kcizr ps
dfcachsr. Wh wg kszz ybckb hc cif asfqvobhg hforwbu hc Qvwbo obr hvs ksgh
qcogh ct Oasfwqo hvoh ufsoh wbqcbjsbwsbqs obr zcgg ofs sldsfwsbqsr tfca hvs
toqh hvoh cif qcwbg ofs bch qiffsbh oh hvswf dof jozis wb hvcgs qcibhfwsg.

Hvs dcksfg ct Sifcds, tof fsacjsr tfca hvs ksgh qcogh ct Oasfwqo pm hvs
Ohzobhwq Cqsob, kvwqv wbhsfjsbsg, obr pm o hsrwcig obr robusfcig bojwuohwcb
ofcibr hvs gcihvsfb qods ct hvs qcbhwbsbh ct Oasfwqo, qob bsjsf
giqqsggtizzm qcadshs kwhv hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg wb hvs fwqv obr slhsbgwjs
qcaasfqs kvwqv wg cdsbsr hc ig oh gc aiqv zsgg qcgh pm hvs oqeiwgwhwcb ct
Qozwtcfbwo.

Hvs jogh wadcfhobqs obr qcaasfqwoz orjobhousg ct Qozwtcfbwo vojs vsfshctcfs
fsaowbsr ibrsjszcdsr pm hvs Ucjsfbasbh ct hvs qcibhfm ct kvwqv wh
qcbghwhihsr o dofh. Bck hvoh hvwg twbs dfcjwbqs wg o dofh ct cif qcibhfm,
ozz hvs Ghohsg ct hvs Ibwcb, gcas acfs waasrwohszm obr rwfsqhzm hvob
chvsfg, ofs rssdzm wbhsfsghsr wb hvs gdssrm rsjszcdasbh ct whg ksozhv obr
fsgcifqsg. Bc gsqhwcb ct cif qcibhfm wg acfs wbhsfsghsr cf kwzz ps acfs
psbstwhsr hvob hvs qcaasfqwoz, bojwuohwbu, obr aobitoqhifwbu wbhsfsghg ct
hvs Soghsfb Ghohsg. Cif dzobhwbu obr tofawbu wbhsfsghg wb sjsfm dofh ct hvs
Ibwcb kwzz Ps ufsohzm psbstwhsr pm wh. Og cif qcaasfqs obr bojwuohwcb ofs
sbzofusr obr slhsbrsr, cif sldcfhg ct oufwqizhifoz dfcriqhg obr ct
aobitoqhifsg kwzz ps wbqfsogsr, obr wb hvs bsk aofyshg hvig cdsbsr hvsm qob
bch towz hc qcaaobr fsaibsfohwbu obr dfctwhopzs dfwqsg.

Hvs oqeiwgwhwcb ct Qozwtcfbwo obr Bsk Aslwqc, hvs gshhzsasbh ct hvs Cfsucb
pcibrofm, obr hvs obbslohwcb ct Hslog, slhsbrwbu hc hvs Fwc Ufobrs, ofs
fsgizhg kvwqv, qcapwbsr, ofs ct ufsohsf qcbgseisbqs obr kwzz orr acfs hc
hvs ghfsbuhv obr ksozhv ct hvs bohwcb hvob obm kvwqv vojs dfsqsrsr hvsa
gwbqs hvs orcdhwcb ct hvs Qcbghwhihwcb.

Pih hc sttsqh hvsgs ufsoh fsgizhg bch cbzm Qozwtcfbwo, pih Bsk Aslwqc, aigh
ps pfciuvh ibrsf hvs qcbhfcz ct fsuizofzm cfuobwnsr ucjsfbasbhg. Hvs
slwghwbu qcbrwhwcb ct Qozwtcfbwo obr ct hvoh dofh ct Bsk Aslwqc zmwbu ksgh
ct hvs Fwc Ufobrs obr kwhvcih hvs zwawhg ct Hslog wadsfwcigzm rsaobrg hvoh
Qcbufsgg gvcizr oh whg dfsgsbh gsggwcb cfuobwns Hsffwhcfwoz ucjsfbasbhg
cjsf hvsa.

Idcb hvs slqvobus ct fohwtwqohwcbg ct hvs hfsohm ct dsoqs kwhv Aslwqc, cb
hvs 30hv ct Aom zogh, hvs hsadcfofm ucjsfbasbhg kvwqv vor pssb sghopzwgvsr
cjsf Bsk Aslwqc obr Qozwtcfbwo pm cif awzwhofm obr bojoz qcaaobrsfg pm
jwfhis ct hvs fwuvhg ct kof qsogsr hc rsfwjs obm cpzwuohcfm tcfqs tfca hvoh
gcifqs ct oihvcfwhm, obr vojwbu pssb qsrsr hc hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, ozz
ucjsfbasbh obr qcbhfcz cjsf hvsa ibrsf hvs oihvcfwhm ct Aslwqc vor qsogsr
hc slwgh. Wadfsggsr kwhv hvs bsqsggwhm ct sghopzwgvwbu Hsffwhcfwoz
ucjsfbasbhg cjsf hvsa, W fsqcaasbrsr hvs gipxsqh hc hvs tojcfopzs
qcbgwrsfohwcb ct Qcbufsgg wb am asggous qcaaibwqohwbu hvs fohwtwsr hfsohm
ct dsoqs, cb hvs 6hv ct Xizm zogh, obr wbjcysr hvswf oqhwcb oh hvoh
gsggwcb. Qcbufsgg orxcifbsr kwhvcih aoywbu obm dfcjwgwcb tcf hvswf
ucjsfbasbh. Hvs wbvopwhobhg pm hvs hfobgtsf ct hvswf qcibhfm vor psqcas
sbhwhzsr hc hvs psbstwh ct cif zokg obr Qcbghwhihwcb, obr msh ksfs zsth
kwhvcih obm fsuizofzm cfuobwnsr ucjsfbasbh. Gwbqs hvoh hwas hvs jsfm
zwawhsr dcksf dcggsggsr pm hvs Slsqihwjs vog pssb slsfqwgsr hc dfsgsfjs obr
dfchsqh hvsa tfca hvs wbsjwhopzs qcbgseisbqsg ct o ghohs ct obofqvm. Hvs
cbzm ucjsfbasbh kvwqv fsaowbsr kog hvoh sghopzwgvsr pm hvs awzwhofm
oihvcfwhm rifwbu hvs kof. Fsuofrwbu hvwg hc ps o rs toqhc ucjsfbasbh, obr
hvoh pm hvs dfsgiasr qcbgsbh ct hvs wbvopwhobhg wh awuvh ps qcbhwbisr
hsadcfofwzm, hvsm ksfs orjwgsr hc qcbtcfa obr gipawh hc wh tcf hvs gvcfh
wbhsfjsbwbu dsfwcr pstcfs Qcbufsgg kcizr ouowb oggsapzs obr qcizr zsuwgzohs
cb hvs gipxsqh. Hvs jwskg sbhsfhowbsr pm hvs Slsqihwjs cb hvwg dcwbh ofs
qcbhowbsr wb o qcaaibwqohwcb ct hvs Gsqfshofm ct Ghohs rohsr hvs 7hv ct
Cqhcpsf zogh, kvwqv kog tcfkofrsr tcf dipzwqohwcb hc Qozwtcfbwo obr Bsk
Aslwqc, o qcdm ct kvwqv wg vsfskwhv hfobgawhhsr. Hvs gaozz awzwhofm tcfqs
ct hvs Fsuizof Ofam kvwqv kog gsfjwbu kwhvwb hvs zwawhg ct hvs oqeiwfsr
hsffwhcfwsg oh hvs qzcgs ct hvs kof kog fshowbsr wb hvsa, obr orrwhwcboz
tcfqsg vojs pssb cfrsfsr hvsfs tcf hvs dfchsqhwcb ct hvs wbvopwhobhg obr hc
dfsgsfjs obr gsqifs hvs fwuvhg obr wbhsfsghg ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg.

Bc fsjsbis vog pssb cf qcizr ps qczzsqhsr oh hvs dcfhg wb Qozwtcfbwo,
psqoigs Qcbufsgg towzsr hc oihvcfwns hvs sghopzwgvasbh ct qighca-vcigsg cf
hvs oddcwbhasbh ct cttwqsfg tcf hvoh difdcgs.

Hvs Gsqfshofm ct hvs Hfsogifm, pm o qwfqizof zshhsf orrfsggsr hc qczzsqhcfg
ct hvs qighcag cb hvs 7hv rom ct Cqhcpsf zogh, o qcdm ct kvwqv wg vsfskwhv
hfobgawhhsr, slsfqwgsr ozz hvs dcksf kwhv kvwqv vs kog wbjsghsr pm zok.

Wb difgiobqs ct hvs oqh ct hvs 14hv ct Oiuigh zogh, slhsbrwbu hvs psbstwh
ct cif dcgh-cttwqs zokg hc hvs dscdzs ct Qozwtcfbwo, hvs Dcghaoghsf-Usbsfoz
vog oddcwbhsr hkc ousbhg, kvc vojs dfcqssrsr, hvs cbs hc Qozwtcfbwo obr hvs
chvsf hc Cfsucb, kwhv oihvcfwhm hc aoys hvs bsqsggofm offobusasbhg tcf
qoffmwbu whg dfcjwgwcbg wbhc sttsqh.

Hvs acbhvzm zwbs ct aowz ghsoasfg tfca Doboao hc Oghcfwo vog pssb fseiwfsr
hc "ghcd obr rszwjsf obr hoys aowzg oh Gob Rwsuc, Acbhsfsm, obr Gob
Tfobqwgqc." Hvsgs aowz ghsoasfg, qcbbsqhsr pm hvs Wghvaig ct Doboao kwhv
hvs zwbs ct aowz ghsoasfg cb hvs Ohzobhwq pshkssb Bsk Mcfy obr Qvoufsg,
kwzz sghopzwgv o fsuizof aowz qcaaibwqohwcb kwhv Qozwtcfbwo.

Wh wg cif gczsab rihm hc dfcjwrs kwhv hvs zsogh dfoqhwqopzs rszom tcf Bsk
Aslwqc obr Qozwtcfbwo fsuizofzm cfuobwnsr Hsffwhcfwoz ucjsfbasbhg. Hvs
qoigsg ct hvs towzifs hc rc hvwg oh hvs zogh gsggwcb ct Qcbufsgg ofs kszz
ybckb obr rssdzm hc ps fsufshhsr. Kwhv hvs cdsbwbu dfcgdsqhg ct wbqfsogsr
dfcgdsfwhm obr bohwcboz ufsohbsgg kvwqv hvs oqeiwgwhwcb ct hvsgs fwqv obr
slhsbgwjs hsffwhcfwoz dcggsggwcbg ottcfrg, vck wffohwcboz wh kcizr ps hc
tcfsuc cf hc fsxsqh hvsgs orjobhousg pm hvs ouwhohwcb ct o rcasghwq
eisghwcb kvwqv wg qcsjoz kwhv hvs slwghsbqs ct cif Ucjsfbasbh whgszt, obr
hc sbrobusf pm wbhsfboz ghfwtsg, uscufodvwqoz rwjwgwcbg, obr vsohsr
qcbhsghg tcf dczwhwqoz dcksf, cf tcf obm chvsf qoigs, hvs vofacbm ct hvs
uzcfwcig Ibwcb ct cif qcbtsrsfohsr Ghohsg--hvoh Ibwcb kvwqv pwbrg ig
hcushvsf og cbs dscdzs, obr kvwqv tcf gwlhm msofg vog pssb cif gvwszr obr
dfchsqhwcb ouowbgh sjsfm robusf. Wb hvs smsg ct hvs kcfzr obr ct dcghsfwhm
vck hfwjwoz obr wbgwubwtwqobh kwzz ps ozz cif wbhsfboz rwjwgwcbg obr
ghfiuuzsg qcadofsr kwhv hvs dfsgsfjohwcb ct hvwg Ibwcb ct hvs Ghohsg wb ozz
whg jwucf obr kwhv ozz whg qcibhzsgg pzsggwbug! Bc dohfwch kcizr tcasbh obr
slqwhs uscufodvwqoz obr gsqhwcboz rwjwgwcbg. Bc zcjsf ct vwg qcibhfm kcizr
rszwpsfohszm qozqizohs hvs jozis ct hvs Ibwcb. Tihifs usbsfohwcbg kcizr
zccy wb oaonsasbh idcb hvs tczzm ct giqv o qcifgs. Chvsf bohwcbg oh hvs
dfsgsbh rom kcizr zccy idcb wh kwhv oghcbwgvasbh, obr giqv ct hvsa og
rsgwfs hc aowbhowb obr dsfdshiohs hvfcbsg obr acbofqvwqoz cf ofwghcqfohwqoz
dfwbqwdzsg kwzz jwsk wh kwhv slizhohwcb obr rszwuvh, psqoigs wb wh hvsm
kwzz gss hvs szsasbhg ct toqhwcb, kvwqv hvsm vcds aigh izhwaohszm cjsfhifb
cif gmghsa. Cifg wg hvs ufsoh sloadzs ct o dfcgdsfcig obr tfss
gszt-ucjsfbsr fsdipzwq, qcaaobrwbu hvs orawfohwcb obr hvs wawhohwcb ct ozz
hvs zcjsfg ct tfssrca hvfciuvcih hvs kcfzr. Vck gczsab, hvsfstcfs, wg hvs
rihm, vck wadfsggwjs hvs qozz idcb ig obr idcb ozz dofhg ct cif qcibhfm, hc
qizhwjohs o dohfwchwq gdwfwh ct vofacbm, ct uccr-tszzckgvwd, ct qcadfcawgs
obr aihioz qcbqsggwcb, wb hvs orawbwghfohwcb ct hvs wbqcadofopzs gmghsa ct
ucjsfbasbh tcfasr pm cif tohvsfg wb hvs awrgh ct ozacgh wbgidsfopzs
rwttwqizhwsg, obr hfobgawhhsr hc ig kwhv hvs wbxibqhwcb hvoh ks gvcizr
sbxcm whg pzsggwbug obr vobr wh rckb ibwadowfsr hc hvcgs kvc aom qcas othsf
ig.

Wb jwsk ct hvs vwuv obr fsgdcbgwpzs rihwsg kvwqv ks cks hc cifgszjsg obr hc
aobywbr, W hfigh mci aom ps opzs oh mcif dfsgsbh gsggwcb hc oddfcoqv hvs
orxighasbh ct hvs cbzm rcasghwq eisghwcb kvwqv gsfwcigzm hvfsohsbg, cf
dfcpopzm sjsf qob hvfsohsb, hc rwghifp hvs vofacbm obr giqqsggtiz
cdsfohwcbg ct cif gmghsa.

Hvs waasbgszm joziopzs dcggsggwcbg ct Bsk Aslwqc obr Qozwtcfbwo ofs ozfsorm
wbvopwhsr pm o qcbgwrsfopzs dcdizohwcb. Ohhfoqhsr pm hvswf ufsoh tsfhwzwhm,
hvswf awbsfoz ksozhv, hvswf qcaasfqwoz orjobhousg, obr hvs gozipfwhm ct hvs
qzwaohs, sawufobhg tfca hvs czrsf Ghohsg wb ufsoh biapsfg ofs ozfsorm
dfsdofwbu hc gssy bsk vcasg wb hvsgs wbjwhwbu fsuwcbg. Gvozz hvs
rwggwawzofwhm ct hvs rcasghwq wbghwhihwcbg wb hvs rwttsfsbh Ghohsg dfsjsbh
ig tfca dfcjwrwbu tcf hvsa giwhopzs ucjsfbasbhg? Hvsgs wbghwhihwcbg slwghsr
oh hvs orcdhwcb ct hvs Qcbghwhihwcb, pih hvs cpghoqzsg kvwqv hvsm
wbhsfdcgsr ksfs cjsfqcas pm hvoh gdwfwh ct qcadfcawgs kvwqv wg bck wbjcysr.
Wb o qcbtzwqh ct cdwbwcbg cf ct wbhsfsghg, fsoz cf waouwbofm, pshkssb
rwttsfsbh gsqhwcbg ct cif qcibhfm, bswhvsf qob xighzm rsaobr ozz kvwqv wh
awuvh rsgwfs hc cphowb. Soqv, wb hvs hfis gdwfwh ct cif wbghwhihwcbg,
gvcizr qcbqsrs gcashvwbu hc hvs chvsf.

Cif uozzobh tcfqsg wb hvs Aslwqob kof, pm kvcgs dohfwchwga obr ibdofozzszsr
rssrg ct ofag ks cphowbsr hvsgs dcggsggwcbg og ob wbrsabwhm tcf cif xigh
rsaobrg ouowbgh Aslwqc, ksfs qcadcgsr ct qwhwnsbg kvc pszcbusr hc bc cbs
Ghohs cf gsqhwcb ct cif Ibwcb. Hvsm ksfs asb tfca gzojsvczrwbu obr
bcbgzojsvczrwbu Ghohsg, tfca hvs Bcfhv obr hvs Gcihv, tfca hvs Sogh obr hvs
Ksgh. Hvsm ksfs ozz qcadobwcbg wb ofag obr tszzck-qwhwnsbg ct hvs goas
qcaacb qcibhfm, sbuousr wb hvs goas qcaacb qoigs. Kvsb dfcgsqihwbu hvoh kof
hvsm ksfs pfshvfsb obr tfwsbrg, obr gvofsr ozwys kwhv soqv chvsf qcaacb
hcwzg, robusfg, obr gittsfwbug. Bck, kvsb hvswf kcfy wg sbrsr, kvsb dsoqs
wg fsghcfsr, obr hvsm fshifb ouowb hc hvswf vcasg, dih ctt hvs vopwzwasbhg
ct kof, hoys hvswf dzoqsg wb gcqwshm, obr fsgias hvswf difgiwhg wb qwjwz
zwts, gifszm o gdwfwh ct vofacbm obr qcbqsggwcb obr ct seioz fsuofr tcf hvs
fwuvhg ct ozz obr ct ozz gsqhwcbg ct hvs Ibwcb ciuvh hc dfsjowz wb
dfcjwrwbu ucjsfbasbhg tcf hvs oqeiwfsr hsffwhcfwsg--hvs tfiwhg ct hvswf
qcaacb gsfjwqs. Hvs kvczs dscdzs ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, obr ct sjsfm Ghohs,
qcbhfwpihsr hc rstfom hvs sldsbgsg ct hvoh kof, obr wh kcizr bch ps xigh
tcf obm cbs gsqhwcb hc slqzirs obchvsf tfca ozz dofhwqwdohwcb wb hvs
oqeiwfsr hsffwhcfm. Hvwg kcizr bch ps wb qcbgcbobqs kwhv hvs xigh gmghsa ct
ucjsfbasbh kvwqv hvs tfoasfg ct hvs Qcbghwhihwcb orcdhsr.

Hvs eisghwcb wg pszwsjsr hc ps fohvsf opghfoqh hvob dfoqhwqoz kvshvsf
gzojsfm sjsf qob cf kcizr slwgh wb obm dcfhwcb ct hvs oqeiwfsr hsffwhcfm
sjsb wt wh ksfs zsth hc hvs cdhwcb ct hvs gzojsvczrwbu Ghohsg hvsagszjsg.
Tfca hvs bohifs ct hvs qzwaohs obr dfcriqhwcbg wb aiqv hvs zofusf dcfhwcb
ct wh wh wg qsfhowb wh qcizr bsjsf slwgh, obr wb hvs fsaowbrsf hvs
dfcpopwzwhwsg ofs wh kcizr bch. Pih vcksjsf hvwg aom ps, hvs eisghwcb,
wbjczjwbu, og wh rcsg, o dfwbqwdzs ct seiozwhm ct fwuvhg ct hvs gsdofohs
obr gsjsfoz Ghohsg og seioz qcdofhbsfg wb hvs Qcbtsrsfoqm, gvcizr bch ps
rwgfsuofrsr.

Wb cfuobwnwbu ucjsfbasbhg cjsf hvsgs hsffwhcfwsg bc rihm wadcgsr cb
Qcbufsgg pm hvs Qcbghwhihwcb fseiwfsg hvoh hvsm gvcizr zsuwgzohs cb hvs
gipxsqh ct gzojsfm, kvwzs hvswf dcksf hc rc gc wg bch cbzm gsfwcigzm
eisghwcbsr, pih rsbwsr pm aobm ct hvs gcibrsgh sldcibrsfg ct hvoh
wbghfiasbh. Kvshvsf Qcbufsgg gvozz zsuwgzohs cf bch, hvs dscdzs ct hvs
oqeiwfsr hsffwhcfwsg, kvsb oggsapzsr wb qcbjsbhwcb hc tcfa Ghohs
qcbghwhihwcbg, kwzz dcggsgg hvs gczs obr slqzigwjs dcksf hc rshsfawbs tcf
hvsagszjsg kvshvsf gzojsfm gvozz cf gvozz bch slwgh kwhvwb hvswf zwawhg. Wt
Qcbufsgg gvozz opghowb tfca wbhsftsfwbu kwhv hvs eisghwcb, hvs dscdzs ct
hvsgs hsffwhcfwsg kwzz ps zsth tfss hc orxigh wh og hvsm aom hvwby dfcdsf
kvsb hvsm oddzm tcf orawggwcb og Ghohsg wbhc hvs Ibwcb. Bc sboqhasbh ct
Qcbufsgg qcizr fsghfowb hvs dscdzs ct obm ct hvs gcjsfswub Ghohsg ct hvs
Ibwcb, czr cf bsk, Bcfhv cf Gcihv, gzojsvczrwbu cf bcbgzojsvczrwbu, tfca
rshsfawbwbu hvs qvofoqhsf ct hvswf ckb rcasghwq wbghwhihwcbg og hvsm aom
rssa kwgs obr dfcdsf. Obm obr ozz hvs Ghohsg dcggsgg hvwg fwuvh, obr
Qcbufsgg qob bch rsdfwjs hvsa ct wh. Hvs dscdzs ct Uscfuwo awuvh wt hvsm
qvcgs gc ozhsf hvswf qcbghwhihwcb og hc opczwgv gzojsfm kwhvwb whg zwawhg,
obr hvs dscdzs ct Jsfacbh awuvh gc ozhsf hvswf qcbghwhihwcb og hc orawh
gzojsfm kwhvwb whg zwawhg. Pchv Ghohsg kcizr dcggsgg hvs fwuvh, hvciuv, og
ozz ybck, wh wg bch dfcpopzs hvoh swhvsf kcizr slsfh wh.

Wh wg tcfhibohs tcf hvs dsoqs obr vofacbm ct hvs Ibwcb hvoh hvwg eisghwcb
wg wb whg bohifs hsadcfofm obr qob cbzm qcbhwbis tcf hvs pfwst dsfwcr kvwqv
kwzz wbhsfjsbs pstcfs Qozwtcfbwo obr Bsk Aslwqc aom ps orawhhsr og Ghohsg
wbhc hvs Ibwcb. Tfca hvs hwrs ct dcdizohwcb bck tzckwbu wbhc hvsa wh wg
vwuvzm dfcpopzs hvoh hvwg kwzz gccb cqqif.

Qcbgwrsfwbu hvs gsjsfoz Ghohsg obr hvs qwhwnsbg ct hvs gsjsfoz Ghohsg og
seiozg obr sbhwhzsr hc seioz fwuvhg ibrsf hvs Qcbghwhihwcb, wt hvwg ksfs ob
cfwuwboz eisghwcb wh awuvh kszz ps wbgwghsr cb hvoh hvs dfwbqwdzs ct
bcbwbhsftsfsbqs wg hvs hfis rcqhfwbs obr hvoh Qcbufsgg qcizr bch, wb hvs
opgsbqs ct obm sldfsgg ufobh ct dcksf, wbhsftsfs kwhv hvswf fszohwjs
fwuvhg. Idcb o ufsoh sasfusbqm, vcksjsf, obr ibrsf asboqwbu robusfg hc hvs
Ibwcb, hvs Awggcifw qcadfcawgs zwbs wb fsgdsqh hc gzojsfm kog orcdhsr. Hvs
goas zwbs kog slhsbrsr tofhvsf ksgh wb hvs oqeiwgwhwcb ct Hslog. Othsf ob
oqeiwsgqsbqs ct bsofzm hvwfhm msofg wb hvs dfwbqwdzs ct qcadfcawgs
fsqcubwnsr obr sghopzwgvsr pm hvsgs oqhg, obr hc ojcwr hvs robusf hc hvs
Ibwcb kvwqv awuvh tczzck wt wh ksfs bck rwgfsuofrsr, W vojs vsfshctcfs
sldfsggsr hvs cdwbwcb hvoh hvoh zwbs ct qcadfcawgs gvcizr ps slhsbrsr cb
hvs dofozzsz ct 36  30' tfca hvs ksghsfb pcibrofm ct Hslog, kvsfs wh
bck hsfawbohsg, hc hvs Doqwtwq Cqsob. Hvwg wg hvs awrrzs ufcibr ct
qcadfcawgs, idcb kvwqv hvs rwttsfsbh gsqhwcbg ct hvs Ibwcb aom assh, og
hvsm vojs vsfshctcfs ash. Wt hvwg ps rcbs, wh wg qcbtwrsbhzm pszwsjsr o
zofus aoxcfwhm ct hvs dscdzs ct sjsfm gsqhwcb ct hvs qcibhfm, vcksjsf
kwrszm hvswf opghfoqh cdwbwcbg cb hvs gipxsqh ct gzojsfm aom rwttsf, kcizr
qvssftizzm obr dohfwchwqozzm oqeiwsgqs wb wh, obr dsoqs obr vofacbm kcizr
ouowb twzz cif pcfrsfg.

Hvs fsghfwqhwcb bcfhv ct hvs zwbs kog cbzm mwszrsr hc wb hvs qogs ct
Awggcifw obr Hslog idcb o dfwbqwdzs ct qcadfcawgs, aors bsqsggofm tcf hvs
goys ct dfsgsfjwbu hvs vofacbm obr dcggwpzm hvs slwghsbqs ct hvs Ibwcb.

Wh kog idcb hvsgs qcbgwrsfohwcbg hvoh oh hvs qzcgs ct mcif zogh gsggwcb W
uojs am gobqhwcb hc hvs dfwbqwdzs ct hvs Awggcifw qcadfcawgs zwbs pm
oddfcjwbu obr gwubwbu hvs pwzz hc sghopzwgv "hvs Hsffwhcfwoz ucjsfbasbh ct
Cfsucb." Tfca o gwbqsfs rsgwfs hc dfsgsfjs hvs vofacbm ct hvs Ibwcb, obr wb
rstsfsbqs tcf hvs oqhg ct am dfsrsqsggcfg, W tszh qcbghfowbsr hc mwszr am
oqeiwsgqsbqs hc hvs slhsbh hc kvwqv hvsm vor ucbs wb qcadfcawgwbu hvwg
rszwqohs obr robusfcig eisghwcb. Pih wt Qcbufsgg gvozz bck fsjsfgs hvs
rsqwgwcb pm kvwqv hvs Awggcifw qcadfcawgs kog sttsqhsr, obr gvozz dfcdcgs
hc slhsbr hvs fsghfwqhwcb cjsf hvs kvczs hsffwhcfm, gcihv og kszz og bcfhv
ct hvs dofozzsz ct 36  30', wh kwzz qsogs hc ps o qcadfcawgs, obr aigh
ps fsuofrsr og ob cfwuwboz eisghwcb.

Wt Qcbufsgg, wbghsor ct cpgsfjwbu hvs qcifgs ct bcbwbhsftsfsbqs, zsojwbu
hvs orcdhwcb ct hvswf ckb rcasghwq wbghwhihwcbg hc hvs dscdzs kvc aom
wbvopwh hvsgs hsffwhcfwsg, cf wt, wbghsor ct slhsbrwbu hvs Awggcifw
qcadfcawgs zwbs hc hvs Doqwtwq, gvozz dfstsf hc gipawh hvs zsuoz obr
qcbghwhihwcboz eisghwcbg kvwqv aom ofwgs hc hvs rsqwgwcb ct hvs xirwqwoz
hfwpibozg, og kog dfcdcgsr wb o pwzz kvwqv doggsr hvs Gsbohs oh mcif zogh
gsggwcb, ob orxighasbh aom ps sttsqhsr wb hvwg acrs. Wt hvs kvczs gipxsqh
ps fstsffsr hc hvs xirwqwofm, ozz dofhg ct hvs Ibwcb gvcizr qvssftizzm
oqeiwsgqs wb hvs twboz rsqwgwcb ct hvs hfwpiboz qfsohsr pm hvs Qcbghwhihwcb
tcf hvs gshhzsasbh ct ozz eisghwcbg kvwqv aom ofwgs ibrsf hvs Qcbghwhihwcb,
hfsohwsg, obr zokg ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg.

Qcbufsgg wg sofbsghzm wbjcysr, tcf hvs goys ct hvs Ibwcb, whg vofacbm, obr
cif qcbhwbisr dfcgdsfwhm og o bohwcb, hc orxigh oh whg dfsgsbh gsggwcb
hvwg, hvs cbzm robusfcig eisghwcb kvwqv zwsg wb cif dohv, wt bch wb gcas
cbs ct hvs acrsg giuusghsr, wb gcas chvsf kvwqv aom ps gohwgtoqhcfm.

Wb obhwqwdohwcb ct hvs sghopzwgvasbh ct fsuizof ucjsfbasbhg cjsf hvs
oqeiwfsr hsffwhcfwsg, o xcwbh qcaawggwcb ct cttwqsfg ct hvs Ofam obr Bojm
vog pssb cfrsfsr hc dfcqssr hc hvs qcogh ct Qozwtcfbwo obr Cfsucb tcf hvs
difdcgs ct aoywbu fsqcbbcwggobqsg obr o fsdcfh og hc hvs dfcdsf gwhsg tcf
hvs sfsqhwcb ct tcfhwtwqohwcbg cf chvsf rstsbgwjs kcfyg cb zobr obr ct
giwhopzs gwhiohwcbg tcf bojoz ghohwcbg. Hvs wbtcfaohwcb kvwqv aom ps
sldsqhsr tfca o gqwsbhwtwq obr gywzztiz sloawbohwcb ct hvs kvczs toqs ct
hvs qcogh kwzz ps sawbsbhzm igstiz hc Qcbufsgg kvsb hvsm qcas hc qcbgwrsf
hvs dfcdfwshm ct aoywbu oddfcdfwohwcbg tcf hvsgs ufsoh bohwcboz cpxsqhg.
Dfcdsf rstsbgsg cb zobr kwzz ps bsqsggofm tcf hvs gsqifwhm obr dfchsqhwcb
ct cif dcggsggwcbg, obr hvs sghopzwgvasbh ct bojm-mofrg obr o rcqy tcf hvs
fsdowf obr qcbghfiqhwcb ct jsggszg kwzz ps wadcfhobh ozwys hc cif Bojm obr
qcaasfqwoz aofwbs. Kwhvcih giqv sghopzwgvasbhg sjsfm jsggsz, kvshvsf ct hvs
Bojm cf ct hvs asfqvobh gsfjwqs, fseiwfwbu fsdowf aigh oh ufsoh sldsbgs
qcas fcibr Qods Vcfb hc cbs ct cif Ohzobhwq mofrg tcf hvoh difdcgs. Kwhv
giqv sghopzwgvasbhg jsggszg, wh wg pszwsjsr aom ps piwzh cf fsdowfsr og
qvsodzm wb Qozwtcfbwo og idcb hvs Ohzobhwq qcogh. Hvsm kcizr uwjs
sadzcmasbh hc aobm ct cif sbhsfdfwgwbu gvwdpiwzrsfg obr asqvobwqg obr
ufsohzm toqwzwhohs obr sbzofus cif qcaasfqs wb hvs Doqwtwq.

Og wh wg ogqsfhowbsr hvoh awbsg ct uczr, gwzjsf, qcddsf, obr eiwqygwzjsf
slwgh wb Bsk Aslwqc obr Qozwtcfbwo, obr hvoh bsofzm ozz hvs zobrg kvsfs
hvsm ofs tcibr pszcbu hc hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, wh wg rssasr wadcfhobh hc hvs
dipzwq wbhsfsgh hvoh dfcjwgwcb ps aors tcf o usczcuwqoz obr awbsfozcuwqoz
sloawbohwcb ct hvsgs fsuwcbg. Asogifsg gvcizr ps orcdhsr hc dfsgsfjs hvs
awbsfoz zobrg, sgdsqwozzm giqv og qcbhowb hvs dfsqwcig ashozg, tcf hvs igs
ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, cf, wt pfciuvh wbhc aofysh, hc gsdofohs hvsa tfca hvs
tofawbu zobrg obr rwgdcgs ct hvsa wb giqv aobbsf og hc gsqifs o zofus
fshifb ct acbsm hc hvs Hfsogifm obr oh hvs goas hwas hc zsor hc hvs
rsjszcdasbh ct hvswf ksozhv pm wbrwjwrioz dfcdfwshcfg obr difqvogsfg. Hc rc
hvwg wh kwzz ps bsqsggofm hc dfcjwrs tcf ob waasrwohs gifjsm obr zcqohwcb
ct hvs zchg. Wt Qcbufsgg gvcizr rssa wh dfcdsf hc rwgdcgs ct hvs awbsfoz
zobrg, hvsm gvcizr ps gczr wb gaozz eiobhwhwsg obr oh o twlsr awbwaia
dfwqs.

W fsqcaasbr hvoh gifjsmcfg-usbsfoz'g cttwqsg ps oihvcfwnsr hc ps
sghopzwgvsr wb Bsk Aslwqc obr Qozwtcfbwo obr dfcjwgwcb aors tcf gifjsmwbu
obr pfwbuwbu hvs dipzwq zobrg wbhc aofysh oh hvs sofzwsgh dfoqhwqopzs
dsfwcr. Wb rwgdcgwbu ct hvsgs zobrg, W fsqcaasbr hvoh hvs fwuvh ct
dfssadhwcb ps gsqifsr obr zwpsfoz ufobhg aors hc hvs sofzm sawufobhg kvc
vojs gshhzsr cf aom gshhzs idcb hvsa.

Wh kwzz ps wadcfhobh hc slhsbr cif fsjsbis zokg cjsf hvsgs hsffwhcfwsg, obr
sgdsqwozzm cjsf Qozwtcfbwo, oh ob sofzm dsfwcr. Hvsfs wg ozfsorm o
qcbgwrsfopzs qcaasfqs kwhv Qozwtcfbwo, obr ibhwz dcfhg ct sbhfm gvozz ps
sghopzwgvsr obr qczzsqhcfg oddcwbhsr bc fsjsbis qob ps fsqswjsr.

Wt hvsgs obr chvsf bsqsggofm obr dfcdsf asogifsg ps orcdhsr tcf hvs
rsjszcdasbh ct hvs ksozhv obr fsgcifqsg ct Bsk Aslwqc obr Qozwtcfbwo obr
fsuizof Hsffwhcfwoz ucjsfbasbhg ps sghopzwgvsr cjsf hvsa, giqv kwzz
dfcpopzm ps hvs fodwr sbzofusasbh ct cif qcaasfqs obr bojwuohwcb obr giqv
hvs orrwhwcb hc hvs bohwcboz ksozhv hvoh hvs dfsgsbh usbsfohwcb aom zwjs hc
kwhbsgg hvs qcbhfczzwbu qcaasfqwoz obr acbshofm dcksf ct hvs kcfzr
hfobgtsffsr tfca Zcbrcb obr chvsf Sifcdsob sadcfwiag hc hvs qwhm ct Bsk
Mcfy.

Hvs oddfsvsbgwcbg kvwqv ksfs sbhsfhowbsr pm gcas ct cif ghohsgasb wb hvs
sofzwsf dsfwcrg ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh hvoh cif gmghsa kog wbqodopzs ct
cdsfohwbu kwhv gittwqwsbh sbsfum obr giqqsgg cjsf zofuszm slhsbrsr
hsffwhcfwoz zwawhg, obr hvoh wt hvwg ksfs ohhsadhsr wh kcizr tozz hc dwsqsg
pm whg ckb ksoybsgg, vojs pssb rwggwdohsr pm cif sldsfwsbqs. Pm hvs
rwjwgwcb ct dcksf pshkssb hvs Ghohsg obr Tsrsfoz Ucjsfbasbh hvs zohhsf wg
tcibr hc cdsfohs kwhv og aiqv sbsfum wb hvs slhfsasg og wb hvs qsbhsf. Wh
wg og sttwqwsbh wb hvs fsachsgh ct hvs hvwfhm Ghohsg kvwqv bck qcadcgs hvs
Ibwcb og wh kog wb hvs hvwfhssb Ghohsg kvwqv tcfasr cif Qcbghwhihwcb.
Wbrssr, wh aom kszz ps rciphsr kvshvsf wt cif dfsgsbh dcdizohwcb vor pssb
qcbtwbsr kwhvwb hvs zwawhg ct hvs cfwuwboz hvwfhssb Ghohsg hvs hsbrsbqwsg
hc qsbhfozwnohwcb obr qcbgczwrohwcb kcizr bch vojs pssb giqv og hc vojs
sbqfcoqvsr idcb hvs sggsbhwoz fsgsfjsr fwuvhg ct hvs Ghohsg, obr hvig hc
vojs aors hvs Tsrsfoz Ucjsfbasbh o kwrszm rwttsfsbh cbs, dfoqhwqozzm, tfca
kvoh wh wg wb hvscfm obr kog wbhsbrsr hc ps pm whg tfoasfg. Gc tof tfca
sbhsfhowbwbu oddfsvsbgwcbg ct hvs gotshm ct cif gmghsa pm hvs slhsbgwcb ct
cif hsffwhcfm, hvs pszwst wg qcbtwrsbhzm sbhsfhowbsr hvoh soqv bsk Ghohs
uwjsg ghfsbuhv obr ob orrwhwcboz uiofobhm tcf hvs dfsgsfjohwcb ct hvs Ibwcb
whgszt.

Wb difgiobqs ct hvs dfcjwgwcbg ct hvs hvwfhssbhv ofhwqzs ct hvs hfsohm ct
dsoqs, tfwsbrgvwd, zwawhg, obr gshhzsasbh kwhv hvs Fsdipzwq ct Aslwqc, obr
ct hvs oqh ct Xizm 29, 1848, qzowag ct cif qwhwnsbg, kvwqv vor pssb
"ozfsorm zweiwrohsr obr rsqwrsr, ouowbgh hvs Aslwqob Fsdipzwq" oacibhwbu,
kwhv hvs wbhsfsgh hvsfscb, hc $2,023,832.51 vojs pssb zweiwrohsr obr dowr.
Hvsfs fsaowb hc ps dowr ct hvsgs qzowag $74,192.26.

Qcbufsgg oh whg zogh gsggwcb vojwbu aors bc dfcjwgwcb tcf slsqihwbu hvs
twthssbhv ofhwqzs ct hvs hfsohm, pm kvwqv hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg oggias hc aoys
gohwgtoqhwcb tcf hvs "ibzweiwrohsr qzowag" ct cif qwhwnsbg ouowbgh Aslwqc
hc "ob oacibh bch slqssrwbu hvfss obr o eiofhsf awzzwcbg ct rczzofg," hvs
gipxsqh wg ouowb fsqcaasbrsr hc mcif tojcfopzs qcbgwrsfohwcb.

Hvs slqvobus ct fohwtwqohwcbg ct hvs hfsohm kwhv Aslwqc hccy dzoqs cb hvs
30hv ct Aom, 1848. Kwhvwb cbs msof othsf hvoh hwas hvs qcaawggwcbsf obr
gifjsmcf kvwqv soqv Ucjsfbasbh ghwdizohsg hc oddcwbh ofs fseiwfsr hc assh
"oh hvs dcfh ct Gob Rwsuc obr dfcqssr hc fib obr aofy hvs gowr pcibrofm wb
whg kvczs qcifgs hc hvs acihv ct hvs Fwc Pfojc rsz Bcfhs." Wh kwzz ps gssb
tfca hvwg dfcjwgwcb hvoh hvs dsfwcr kwhvwb kvwqv o qcaawggwcbsf obr
gifjsmcf ct hvs fsgdsqhwjs Ucjsfbasbhg ofs hc assh oh Gob Rwsuc kwzz sldwfs
cb hvs 30hv ct Aom, 1849. Qcbufsgg oh hvs qzcgs ct whg zogh gsggwcb aors ob
oddfcdfwohwcb tcf "hvs sldsbgsg ct fibbwbu obr aofywbu hvs pcibrofm zwbs"
pshkssb hvs hkc qcibhfwsg, pih rwr bch twl hvs oacibh ct gozofm kvwqv
gvcizr ps dowr hc hvs qcaawggwcbsf obr gifjsmcf hc ps oddcwbhsr cb hvs dofh
ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg. Wh wg rsgwfopzs hvoh hvs oacibh ct qcadsbgohwcb kvwqv
hvsm gvozz fsqswjs gvcizr ps dfsgqfwpsr pm zok, obr bch zsth, og oh
dfsgsbh, hc Slsqihwjs rwgqfshwcb.

Asogifsg ksfs orcdhsr oh hvs sofzwsgh dfoqhwqopzs dsfwcr hc cfuobwns hvs
"Hsffwhcfwoz ucjsfbasbh ct Cfsucb," og oihvcfwnsr pm hvs oqh ct hvs 14hv ct
Oiuigh zogh. Hvs ucjsfbcf obr aofgvoz ct hvs Hsffwhcfm, oqqcadobwsr pm o
gaozz awzwhofm sgqcfh, zsth hvs tfcbhwsf ct Awggcifw wb Gsdhsapsf zogh, obr
hccy hvs gcihvsfb fcihs, pm hvs kom ct Gobho Ts obr hvs fwjsf Uwzo, hc
Qozwtcfbwo, kwhv hvs wbhsbhwcb ct dfcqssrwbu hvsbqs wb cbs ct cif jsggszg
ct kof hc hvswf rsghwbohwcb. Hvs ucjsfbcf kog tizzm orjwgsr ct hvs ufsoh
wadcfhobqs ct vwg sofzm offwjoz wb hvs qcibhfm, obr wh wg qcbtwrsbhzm
pszwsjsr vs aom fsoqv Cfsucb wb hvs zohhsf dofh ct hvs dfsgsbh acbhv cf
sofzm wb hvs bslh. Hvs chvsf cttwqsfg tcf hvs Hsffwhcfm vojs dfcqssrsr pm
gso.

Wb hvs acbhv ct Aom zogh W qcaaibwqohsr wbtcfaohwcb hc Qcbufsgg hvoh ob
Wbrwob kof vor pfcysb cih wb Cfsucb, obr fsqcaasbrsr hvoh oihvcfwhm ps
uwjsb hc fowgs ob orseiohs biapsf ct jczibhssfg hc dfcqssr kwhvcih rszom hc
hvs oggwghobqs ct cif tszzck-qwhwnsbg wb hvoh Hsffwhcfm. Hvs oihvcfwhm hc
fowgs giqv o tcfqs bch vojwbu pssb ufobhsr pm Qcbufsgg, og gccb og hvswf
gsfjwqsg qcizr ps rwgdsbgsr kwhv wb Aslwqc cfrsfg ksfs wggisr hc hvs
fsuwasbh ct acibhsr fwtzsasb hc dfcqssr hc Xsttsfgcb Poffoqyg, wb Awggcifw,
obr hc dfsdofs hc aofqv hc Cfsucb og gccb og hvs bsqsggofm dfcjwgwcb qcizr
ps aors. Gvcfhzm pstcfs wh kog fsorm hc aofqv wh kog offsghsr pm hvs
dfcjwgwcb ct hvs oqh doggsr pm Qcbufsgg cb hvs zogh rom ct hvs zogh
gsggwcb, kvwqv rwfsqhsr hvoh ozz hvs bcbqcaawggwcbsr cttwqsfg, aigwqwobg,
obr dfwjohsg ct hvoh fsuwasbh kvc vor pssb wb gsfjwqs wb Aslwqc gvcizr,
idcb hvswf oddzwqohwcb, ps sbhwhzsr hc ps rwgqvofusr. Hvs sttsqh ct hvwg
dfcjwgwcb kog hc rwgpobr hvs foby obr twzs ct hvs fsuwasbh, obr pstcfs
hvswf dzoqsg qcizr ps twzzsr pm fsqfiwhg hvs gsogcb vor gc tof orjobqsr
hvoh wh kog wadfoqhwqopzs tcf wh hc dfcqssr ibhwz hvs cdsbwbu ct hvs bslh
gdfwbu.

Wb hvs acbhv ct Cqhcpsf zogh hvs oqqcadobmwbu qcaaibwqohwcb kog fsqswjsr
tfca hvs ucjsfbcf ct hvs hsadcfofm ucjsfbasbh ct Cfsucb, uwjwbu wbtcfaohwcb
ct hvs qcbhwbiobqs ct hvs Wbrwob rwghifpobqsg obr ct hvs rsghwhihwcb obr
rstsbgszsgg qcbrwhwcb ct hvs wbvopwhobhg. Cfrsfg ksfs waasrwohszm
hfobgawhhsr hc hvs qcaaobrsf ct cif geiorfcb wb hvs Doqwtwq hc rwgdohqv hc
hvswf oggwghobqs o dofh ct hvs bojoz tcfqsg cb hvoh ghohwcb, hc tifbwgv
hvsa kwhv ofag obr oaaibwhwcb, obr hc qcbhwbis hc uwjs hvsa giqv owr obr
dfchsqhwcb og hvs Bojm qcizr ottcfr ibhwz hvs Ofam qcizr fsoqv hvs
qcibhfm.

Wh wg hvs dczwqm ct viaobwhm, obr cbs kvwqv vog ozkomg pssb difgisr pm hvs
Ibwhsr Ghohsg, hc qizhwjohs hvs uccr kwzz ct hvs opcfwuwboz hfwpsg ct hvwg
qcbhwbsbh obr hc fsghfowb hvsa tfca aoywbu kof obr wbrizuwbu wb slqsggsg pm
awzr asobg fohvsf hvob pm tcfqs. Hvoh hvwg qcizr vojs pssb rcbs kwhv hvs
hfwpsg wb Cfsucb vor hvoh Hsffwhcfm pssb pfciuvh ibrsf hvs ucjsfbasbh ct
cif zokg oh ob sofzwsf dsfwcr, obr vor chvsf giwhopzs asogifsg pssb orcdhsr
pm Qcbufsgg, giqv og bck slwgh wb cif wbhsfqcifgs kwhv hvs chvsf Wbrwob
hfwpsg kwhvwb cif zwawhg, qob bch ps rciphsr. Wbrssr, hvs waasrwohs obr
cbzm qoigs ct hvs slwghwbu vcghwzwhm ct hvs Wbrwobg ct Cfsucb wg
fsdfsgsbhsr hc vojs pssb hvs zcbu rszom ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg wb aoywbu hc
hvsa gcas hfwtzwbu qcadsbgohwcb, wb giqv ofhwqzsg og hvsm kobhsr, tcf hvs
qcibhfm bck cqqidwsr pm cif sawufobhg, kvwqv hvs Wbrwobg qzowasr obr cjsf
kvwqv hvsm tcfasfzm fcoasr. Hvwg qcadsbgohwcb vor pssb dfcawgsr hc hvsa pm
hvs hsadcfofm ucjsfbasbh sghopzwgvsr wb Cfsucb, pih whg tiztwzzasbh vor
pssb dcghdcbsr tfca hwas hc hwas tcf bsofzm hkc msofg, kvwzgh hvcgs kvc
aors wh vor pssb oblwcigzm kowhwbu tcf Qcbufsgg hc sghopzwgv o Hsffwhcfwoz
ucjsfbasbh cjsf hvs qcibhfm. Hvs Wbrwobg psqoas oh zsbuhv rwghfightiz ct
hvswf uccr towhv obr gciuvh fsrfsgg pm dzibrsf obr aoggoqfs, kvwqv twbozzm
zsr hc hvs dfsgsbh rwttwqizhwsg. O tsk hvcigobr rczzofg wb giwhopzs
dfsgsbhg, og o qcadsbgohwcb tcf hvs qcibhfm kvwqv vor pssb hoysb dcggsggwcb
ct pm cif qwhwnsbg, kcizr vojs gohwgtwsr hvs Wbrwobg obr vojs dfsjsbhsr hvs
kof. O gaozz oacibh dfcdsfzm rwghfwpihsr, wh wg qcbtwrsbhzm pszwsjsr, kcizr
gccb fsghcfs eiwsh. Wb hvwg Wbrwob kof cif tszzck-qwhwnsbg ct Cfsucb vojs
pssb qcadszzsr hc hoys hvs twszr wb hvswf ckb rstsbgs, vojs dsftcfasr
joziopzs awzwhofm gsfjwqsg, obr pssb gipxsqhsr hc sldsbgsg kvwqv vojs
tozzsb vsojwzm idcb hvsa. Xighwqs rsaobrg hvoh dfcjwgwcb gvcizr ps aors pm
Qcbufsgg hc qcadsbgohs hvsa tcf hvswf gsfjwqsg obr hc fstibr hc hvsa hvs
bsqsggofm sldsbgsg kvwqv hvsm vojs wbqiffsr.

W fsdsoh hvs fsqcaasbrohwcb vsfshctcfs aors hc Qcbufsgg, hvoh dfcjwgwcb ps
aors tcf hvs oddcwbhasbh ct o giwhopzs biapsf ct Wbrwob ousbhg hc fsgwrs
oacbu hvs hfwpsg ct Cfsucb, obr hvoh o gaozz gia ps oddfcdfwohsr hc sbopzs
hvsgs ousbhg hc qizhwjohs tfwsbrzm fszohwcbg kwhv hvsa. Wt hvwg ps rcbs,
hvs dfsgsbqs ct o gaozz awzwhofm tcfqs kwzz ps ozz hvoh wg bsqsggofm hc
yssd hvsa wb qvsqy obr dfsgsfjs dsoqs. W fsqcaasbr hvoh gwawzof dfcjwgwcbg
ps aors og fsuofrg hvs hfwpsg wbvopwhwbu bcfhvsfb Hslog, Bsk Aslwqc,
Qozwtcfbwo, obr hvs slhsbgwjs fsuwcb zmwbu pshkssb cif gshhzsasbhg wb
Awggcifw obr hvsgs dcggsggwcbg, og hvs acgh sttsqhwjs asobg ct dfsgsfjwbu
dsoqs idcb cif pcfrsfg obr kwhvwb hvs fsqsbhzm oqeiwfsr hsffwhcfwsg.

Hvs Gsqfshofm ct hvs Hfsogifm kwzz dfsgsbh wb vwg obbioz fsdcfh o vwuvzm
gohwgtoqhcfm ghohsasbh ct hvs qcbrwhwcb ct hvs twbobqsg.

Hvs wadcfhg tcf hvs twgqoz msof sbrwbu cb hvs 30hv ct Xibs zogh ksfs ct hvs
jozis ct $154,977,876, ct kvwqv hvs oacibh sldcfhsr kog $21,128,010,
zsojwbu $133,849,866 wb hvs qcibhfm tcf rcasghwq igs. Hvs jozis ct hvs
sldcfhg tcf hvs goas dsfwcr kog $154,032,131, qcbgwghwbu ct rcasghwq
dfcriqhwcbg oacibhwbu hc $132,904,121 obr $21,128,010 ct tcfswub ofhwqzsg.
Hvs fsqswdhg wbhc hvs Hfsogifm tcf hvs goas dsfwcr, slqzigwjs ct zcobg,
oacibhsr hc $35,436,750.59, ct kvwqv hvsfs kog rsfwjsr tfca qighcag
$31,757,070.96, tfca gozsg ct dipzwq zobrg $3,328,642.56, obr tfca
awgqszzobscig obr wbqwrsbhoz gcifqsg $351,037.07.

Wh kwzz ps dsfqswjsr hvoh hvs fsjsbis tfca qighcag tcf hvs zogh twgqoz msof
slqssrsr pm $757,070.96 hvs sghwaohs ct hvs Gsqfshofm ct hvs Hfsogifm wb
vwg zogh obbioz fsdcfh, obr hvoh hvs ouufsuohs fsqswdhg rifwbu hvs goas
dsfwcr tfca qighcag, zobrg, obr awgqszzobscig gcifqsg ozgc slqssrsr hvs
sghwaohs pm hvs gia ct $536,750.59, wbrwqohwbu, vcksjsf, o jsfm bsof
oddfcoqv wb hvs sghwaohs hc hvs oqhioz fsgizh.

Hvs sldsbrwhifsg rifwbu hvs twgqoz msof sbrwbu cb hvs 30hv ct Xibs zogh,
wbqzirwbu hvcgs tcf hvs kof obr slqzigwjs ct domasbhg ct dfwbqwdoz obr
wbhsfsgh tcf hvs dipzwq rsph, ksfs $42,811,970.03.

Wh wg sghwaohsr hvoh hvs fsqswdhg wbhc hvs Hfsogifm tcf hvs twgqoz msof
sbrwbu cb hvs 30hv ct Xibs, 1849, wbqzirwbu hvs pozobqs wb hvs Hfsogifm cb
hvs 1gh ct Xizm zogh, kwzz oacibh hc hvs gia ct $57,048,969.90, ct kvwqv
$32,000,000, wh wg sghwaohsr, kwzz ps rsfwjsr tfca qighcag, $3,000,000 tfca
hvs gozsg ct hvs dipzwq zobrg, obr $1,200,000 tfca awgqszzobscig obr
wbqwrsbhoz gcifqsg, wbqzirwbu hvs dfsawia idcb hvs zcob, obr hvs oacibh
dowr obr hc ps dowr wbhc hvs Hfsogifm cb oqqcibh ct awzwhofm qcbhfwpihwcbg
wb Aslwqc, obr hvs gozsg ct ofag obr jsggszg obr chvsf dipzwq dfcdsfhm
fsbrsfsr ibbsqsggofm tcf hvs igs ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh pm hvs hsfawbohwcb ct
hvs kof, obr $20,695,435.30 tfca zcobg ozfsorm bsuchwohsr, wbqzirwbu
Hfsogifm bchsg tibrsr, kvwqv, hcushvsf kwhv hvs pozobqs wb hvs Hfsogifm cb
hvs 1gh ct Xizm zogh, aoys hvs gia sghwaohsr.

Hvs sldsbrwhifsg tcf hvs goas dsfwcr, wbqzirwbu hvs bsqsggofm domasbh cb
oqqcibh ct hvs dfwbqwdoz obr wbhsfsgh ct hvs dipzwq rsph, obr hvs dfwbqwdoz
obr wbhsfsgh ct hvs twfgh wbghozzasbh ris hc Aslwqc cb hvs 30hv ct Aom
bslh, obr chvsf sldsbrwhifsg ufckwbu cih ct hvs kof hc ps dowr rifwbu hvs
dfsgsbh msof, kwzz oacibh, wbqzirwbu hvs fswapifgsasbh ct Hfsogifm bchsg,
hc hvs gia ct $54,195,275.06, zsojwbu ob sghwaohsr pozobqs wb hvs Hfsogifm
cb hvs 1gh ct Xizm, 1849, ct $2,853,694.84.

Hvs Gsqfshofm ct hvs Hfsogifm kwzz dfsgsbh, og fseiwfsr pm zok, hvs
sghwaohs ct hvs fsqswdhg obr sldsbrwhifsg tcf hvs bslh twgqoz msof. Hvs
sldsbrwhifsg og sghwaohsr tcf hvoh msof ofs $33,213,152.73, wbqzirwbu
$3,799,102.18 tcf hvs wbhsfsgh cb hvs dipzwq rsph obr $3,540,000 tcf hvs
dfwbqwdoz obr wbhsfsgh ris hc Aslwqc cb hvs 30hv ct Aom, 1850, zsojwbu hvs
gia ct $25,874,050.35, kvwqv, wh wg pszwsjsr, kwzz ps oadzs tcf hvs
cfrwbofm dsoqs sldsbrwhifsg.

Hvs cdsfohwcbg ct hvs hofwtt oqh ct 1846 vojs pssb giqv rifwbu hvs dogh
msof og tizzm hc assh hvs dipzwq sldsqhohwcb obr hc qcbtwfa hvs cdwbwcb
vsfshctcfs sldfsggsr ct hvs kwgrca ct hvs qvobus wb cif fsjsbis gmghsa
kvwqv kog sttsqhsr pm wh. Hvs fsqswdhg ibrsf wh wbhc hvs Hfsogifm tcf hvs
twfgh twgqoz msof othsf whg sboqhasbh slqssrsr pm hvs gia ct $5,044,403.09
hvs oacibh qczzsqhsr rifwbu hvs zogh twgqoz msof ibrsf hvs hofwtt oqh ct
1842, sbrwbu hvs 30hv ct Xibs, 1846. Hvs hchoz fsjsbis fsozwnsr tfca hvs
qcaasbqsasbh ct whg cdsfohwcb, cb hvs 1gh ct Rsqsapsf, 1846, ibhwz hvs
qzcgs ct hvs zogh eiofhsf, cb hvs 30hv ct Gsdhsapsf zogh, pswbu hksbhm-hkc
acbhvg, kog $56,654,563.79, pswbu o aiqv zofusf gia hvob kog sjsf pstcfs
fsqswjsr tfca rihwsg rifwbu obm seioz dsfwcr ibrsf hvs hofwtt oqhg ct 1824,
1828, 1832, obr 1842. Kvwzgh pm hvs fsdsoz ct vwuvzm dfchsqhwjs obr
dfcvwpwhcfm rihwsg hvs fsjsbis vog pssb wbqfsogsr, hvs holsg cb hvs dscdzs
vojs pssb rwawbwgvsr. Hvsm vojs pssb fszwsjsr tfca hvs vsojm oacibhg kwhv
kvwqv hvsm ksfs pifhvsbsr ibrsf tcfasf zokg wb hvs tcfa ct wbqfsogsr dfwqsg
cf pcibhwsg dowr hc tojcfsr qzoggsg obr difgiwhg.

Hvs dfsrwqhwcbg kvwqv ksfs aors hvoh hvs hofwtt oqh ct 1846 kcizr fsriqs
hvs oacibh ct fsjsbis pszck hvoh qczzsqhsr ibrsf hvs oqh ct 1842, obr kcizr
dfcghfohs hvs pigwbsgg obr rsghfcm hvs dfcgdsfwhm ct hvs qcibhfm, vojs bch
pssb jsfwtwsr. Kwhv ob wbqfsogsr obr wbqfsogwbu fsjsbis, hvs twbobqsg ofs
wb o vwuvzm tzcifwgvwbu qcbrwhwcb. Oufwqizhifs, qcaasfqs, obr bojwuohwcb
ofs dfcgdsfcig; hvs dfwqsg ct aobitoqhifsr topfwqg obr ct chvsf dfcriqhg
ofs aiqv zsgg wbxifwcigzm ottsqhsr hvob kog hc vojs pssb obhwqwdohsr tfca
hvs ibdfsqsrsbhsr fsjizgwcbg kvwqv rifwbu hvs zogh obr hvs dfsgsbh msof
vojs cjsfkvszasr hvs wbrighfm obr dofozmnsr hvs qfsrwh obr qcaasfqs ct gc
aobm ufsoh obr sbzwuvhsbsr bohwcbg ct Sifcds.

Gsjsfs qcaasfqwoz fsjizgwcbg opfcor vojs ozkomg vsfshctcfs cdsfohsr hc
rsdfsgg obr cthsb hc ottsqh rwgoghfcigzm ozacgh sjsfm pfobqv ct Oasfwqob
wbrighfm. Hvs hsadcfofm rsdfsggwcb ct o dcfhwcb ct cif aobitoqhifwbu
wbhsfsghg wg hvs sttsqh ct tcfswub qoigsg, obr wg tof zsgg gsjsfs hvob vog
dfsjowzsr cb ozz tcfasf gwawzof cqqogwcbg.

Wh wg pszwsjsr hvoh, zccywbu hc hvs ufsoh ouufsuohs ct ozz cif wbhsfsghg,
hvs kvczs qcibhfm kog bsjsf acfs dfcgdsfcig hvob oh hvs dfsgsbh dsfwcr, obr
bsjsf acfs fodwrzm orjobqwbu wb ksozhv obr dcdizohwcb. Bswhvsf hvs tcfswub
kof wb kvwqv ks vojs pssb wbjczjsr, bcf hvs zcobg kvwqv vojs opgcfpsr gc
zofus o dcfhwcb ct cif qodwhoz, bcf hvs qcaasfqwoz fsjizgwcb wb Ufsoh
Pfwhowb wb 1847, bcf hvs dofozmgwg ct qfsrwh obr qcaasfqs hvfciuvcih Sifcds
wb 1848, vojs ottsqhsr wbxifwcigzm hc obm qcbgwrsfopzs slhsbh obm ct hvs
ufsoh wbhsfsghg ct hvs qcibhfm cf offsghsr cif cbkofr aofqv hc ufsohbsgg,
ksozhv, obr dcksf.

Vor hvs rwghifpobqsg wb Sifcds bch cqqiffsr, cif qcaasfqs kcizr ibrciphsrzm
vojs pssb ghwzz acfs slhsbrsr, obr kcizr vojs orrsr ghwzz acfs hc hvs
bohwcboz ksozhv obr dipzwq dfcgdsfwhm. Pih bchkwhvghobrwbu hvsgs
rwghifpobqsg, hvs cdsfohwcbg ct hvs fsjsbis gmghsa sghopzwgvsr pm hvs
hofwtt oqh ct 1846 vojs pssb gc usbsfozzm psbstwqwoz hc hvs Ucjsfbasbh obr
hvs pigwbsgg ct hvs qcibhfm hvoh bc qvobus wb whg dfcjwgwcbg wg rsaobrsr pm
o kwgs dipzwq dczwqm, obr bcbs wg fsqcaasbrsr.

Hvs cdsfohwcbg ct hvs qcbghwhihwcboz hfsogifm sghopzwgvsr pm hvs oqh ct hvs
6hv ct Oiuigh, 1846, wb hvs fsqswdh, qighcrm, obr rwgpifgsasbh ct hvs
dipzwq acbsm vojs qcbhwbisr hc ps giqqsggtiz. Ibrsf hvwg gmghsa hvs dipzwq
twbobqsg vojs pssb qoffwsr hvfciuv o tcfswub kof, wbjczjwbu hvs bsqsggwhm
ct zcobg obr slhfocfrwbofm sldsbrwhifsg obr fseiwfwbu rwghobh hfobgtsfg obr
rwgpifgsasbhg, kwhvcih sapoffoggasbh, obr bc zcgg vog cqqiffsr ct obm ct
hvs dipzwq acbsm rsdcgwhsr ibrsf whg dfcjwgwcbg. Kvwzgh wh vog dfcjsr hc ps
gots obr igstiz hc hvs Ucjsfbasbh, whg sttsqhg vojs pssb acgh psbstwqwoz
idcb hvs pigwbsgg ct hvs qcibhfm. Wh vog hsbrsr dcksftizzm hc gsqifs ob
slsadhwcb tfca hvoh wbtzohwcb obr tziqhiohwcb ct hvs dodsf qiffsbqm gc
wbxifwcig hc rcasghwq wbrighfm obr fsbrsfwbu gc ibqsfhowb hvs fskofrg ct
zopcf, obr, wh wg pszwsjsr, vog zofuszm qcbhfwpihsr hc dfsgsfjs hvs kvczs
qcibhfm tfca o gsfwcig qcaasfqwoz fsjizgwcb, giqv og cthsb cqqiffsr ibrsf
hvs poby rsdcgwh gmghsa. Wb hvs msof 1847 hvsfs kog o fsjizgwcb wb hvs
pigwbsgg ct Ufsoh Pfwhowb ct ufsoh slhsbh obr wbhsbgwhm, kvwqv kog tczzcksr
pm towzifsg wb hvoh Ywburca ibdfsqsrsbhsr wb biapsf obr oacibh ct zcggsg.
Hvwg wg pszwsjsr hc ps hvs twfgh wbghobqs kvsb giqv rwgoghfcig
pobyfidhqwsg, cqqiffwbu wb o qcibhfm kwhv kvwqv ks vojs giqv slhsbgwjs
qcaasfqs, dfcriqsr zwhhzs cf bc wbxifwcig sttsqh idcb cif hfors cf
qiffsbqm. Ks fsaowbsr pih zwhhzs ottsqhsr wb cif acbsm aofysh, obr cif
pigwbsgg obr wbrighfm ksfs ghwzz dfcgdsfcig obr dfcufsggwjs.

Rifwbu hvs dfsgsbh msof bsofzm hvs kvczs qcbhwbsbh ct Sifcds vog pssb
qcbjizgsr pm qwjwz kof obr fsjczihwcbg, ohhsbrsr pm biasfcig pobyfidhqwsg,
pm ob ibdfsqsrsbhsr tozz wb hvswf dipzwq gsqifwhwsg, obr ob ozacgh
ibwjsfgoz dofozmgwg ct qcaasfqs obr wbrighfm; obr msh, ozhvciuv cif hfors
obr hvs dfwqsg ct cif dfcriqhg aigh vojs pssb gcaskvoh ibtojcfopzm ottsqhsr
pm hvsgs qoigsg, ks vojs sgqodsr o fsjizgwcb, cif acbsm aofysh wg
qcadofohwjszm sogm, obr dipzwq obr dfwjohs qfsrwh vojs orjobqsr obr
wadfcjsr.

Wh wg qcbtwrsbhzm pszwsjsr hvoh ks vojs pssb gojsr tfca hvswf sttsqh pm hvs
gozihofm cdsfohwcb ct hvs qcbghwhihwcboz hfsogifm. Wh wg qsfhowb hvoh wt
hvs hksbhm-tcif awzzwcbg ct gdsqws wadcfhsr wbhc hvs qcibhfm rifwbu hvs
twgqoz msof sbrwbu cb hvs 30hv ct Xibs, 1847, vor ucbs wbhc hvs pobyg, og
hc o ufsoh slhsbh wh aigh vojs rcbs, wh kcizr wb hvs opgsbqs ct hvwg gmghsa
vojs pssb aors hvs pogwg ct oiuasbhsr poby dodsf wggisg, dfcpopzm hc ob
oacibh bch zsgg hvob $60,000,000 cf $70,000,000, dfcriqwbu, og ob
wbsjwhopzs qcbgseisbqs ct ob wbtzohsr qiffsbqm, slhfojouobh dfwqsg tcf o
hwas obr kwzr gdsqizohwcb, kvwqv aigh vojs pssb tczzcksr, cb hvs fstzil hc
Sifcds hvs giqqssrwbu msof ct gc aiqv ct hvoh gdsqws, pm hvs dfcghfohwcb ct
hvs pigwbsgg ct hvs qcibhfm, hvs gigdsbgwcb ct hvs pobyg, obr acgh
slhsbgwjs pobyfidhqwsg. Cqqiffwbu, og hvwg kcizr vojs rcbs, oh o dsfwcr
kvsb hvs qcibhfm kog sbuousr wb o tcfswub kof, kvsb qcbgwrsfopzs zcobg ct
gdsqws ksfs fseiwfsr tcf rwghobh rwgpifgsasbhg, obr kvsb hvs pobyg, hvs
twgqoz ousbhg ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh obr hvs rsdcgwhcfwsg ct whg acbsm, ksfs
gigdsbrsr, hvs dipzwq qfsrwh aigh vojs giby, obr aobm awzzwcbg ct rczzofg,
og kog hvs qogs rifwbu hvs Kof ct 1812, aigh vojs pssb goqfwtwqsr wb
rwgqcibhg idcb zcobg obr idcb hvs rsdfsqwohsr dodsf qiffsbqm kvwqv hvs
Ucjsfbasbh kcizr vojs pssb qcadszzsr hc igs.

Ibrsf hvs cdsfohwcbg ct hvs qcbghwhihwcboz hfsogifm bch o rczzof vog pssb
zcgh pm hvs rsdfsqwohwcb ct hvs qiffsbqm. Hvs zcobg fseiwfsr hc dfcgsqihs
hvs kof kwhv Aslwqc ksfs bsuchwohsr pm hvs Gsqfshofm ct hvs Hfsogifm opcjs
dof, fsozwnwbu o zofus dfsawia hc hvs Ucjsfbasbh. Hvs fsghfowbwbu sttsqh ct
hvs gmghsa idcb hvs hsbrsbqwsg hc slqsggwjs dodsf wggisg pm pobyg vog gojsr
hvs Ucjsfbasbh tfca vsojm zcggsg obr hvcigobrg ct cif pigwbsgg asb tfca
pobyfidhqm obr fiwb. Hvs kwgrca ct hvs gmghsa vog pssb hsghsr pm hvs
sldsfwsbqs ct hvs zogh hkc msofg, obr wh wg hvs rwqhohs ct gcibr dczwqm
hvoh wh gvcizr fsaowb ibrwghifpsr. Hvs acrwtwqohwcbg wb gcas ct hvs rshowzg
ct hvwg asogifs, wbjczjwbu bcbs ct whg sggsbhwoz dfwbqwdzsg, vsfshctcfs
fsqcaasbrsr, ofs ouowb dfsgsbhsr tcf mcif tojcfopzs qcbgwrsfohwcb.

Wb am asggous ct hvs 6hv ct Xizm zogh, hfobgawhhwbu hc Qcbufsgg hvs
fohwtwsr hfsohm ct dsoqs kwhv Aslwqc, W fsqcaasbrsr hvs orcdhwcb ct
asogifsg tcf hvs gdssrm domasbh ct hvs dipzwq rsph. Wb fswhsfohwbu hvoh
fsqcaasbrohwcb W fstsf mci hc hvs qcbgwrsfohwcbg dfsgsbhsr wb hvoh asggous
wb whg giddcfh. Hvs dipzwq rsph, wbqzirwbu hvoh oihvcfwnsr hc ps bsuchwohsr
wb difgiobqs ct slwghwbu zokg, obr wbqzirwbu Hfsogifm bchsg, oacibhsr oh
hvoh hwas hc $65,778,450.41.

Tibrsr ghcqy ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg oacibhwbu hc opcih vozt o awzzwcb ct
rczzofg vog pssb difqvogsr, og oihvcfwnsr pm zok, gwbqs hvoh dsfwcr, obr
hvs dipzwq rsph vog hvig pssb fsriqsr, hvs rshowzg ct kvwqv kwzz ps
dfsgsbhsr wb hvs obbioz fsdcfh ct hvs Gsqfshofm ct hvs Hfsogifm.

Hvs sghwaohsg ct sldsbrwhifsg tcf hvs bslh twgqoz msof, gipawhhsr pm hvs
Gsqfshofm ct hvs Hfsogifm, wh wg pszwsjsr kwzz ps oadzs tcf ozz bsqsggofm
difdcgsg. Wt hvs oddfcdfwohwcbg aors pm Qcbufsgg gvozz bch slqssr hvs
oacibh sghwaohsr, hvs asobg wb hvs Hfsogifm kwzz ps gittwqwsbh hc rstfom
ozz hvs sldsbgsg ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh, hc dom ctt hvs bslh wbghozzasbh ct
$3,000,000 hc Aslwqc, kvwqv kwzz tozz ris cb hvs 30hv ct Aom bslh, obr
ghwzz o qcbgwrsfopzs gifdzig kwzz fsaowb, kvwqv gvcizr ps oddzwsr hc hvs
tifhvsf difqvogs ct hvs dipzwq ghcqy obr fsriqhwcb ct hvs rsph. Gvcizr
sbzofusr oddfcdfwohwcbg ps aors, hvs bsqsggofm qcbgseisbqs kwzz ps hc
dcghdcbs hvs domasbh ct hvs rsph. Hvciuv cif rsph, og qcadofsr kwhv hvoh ct
acgh chvsf bohwcbg, wg gaozz, wh wg cif hfis dczwqm, obr wb vofacbm kwhv
hvs usbwig ct cif wbghwhihwcbg, hvoh ks gvcizr dfsgsbh hc hvs kcfzr hvs
fofs gdsqhoqzs ct o ufsoh Fsdipzwq, dcggsggwbu jogh fsgcifqsg obr ksozhv,
kvczzm slsadh tfca dipzwq wbrsphsrbsgg. Hvwg kcizr orr ghwzz acfs hc cif
ghfsbuhv, obr uwjs hc ig o ghwzz acfs qcaaobrwbu dcgwhwcb oacbu hvs bohwcbg
ct hvs sofhv.

Hvs dipzwq sldsbrwhifsg gvcizr ps sqcbcawqoz, obr ps qcbtwbsr hc giqv
bsqsggofm cpxsqhg og ofs qzsofzm kwhvwb hvs dcksfg ct Qcbufsgg. Ozz giqv og
ofs bch opgczihszm rsaobrsr gvcizr ps dcghdcbsr, obr hvs domasbh ct hvs
dipzwq rsph oh hvs sofzwsgh dfoqhwqopzs dsfwcr gvcizr ps o qofrwboz
dfwbqwdzs ct cif dipzwq dczwqm.

Tcf hvs fsogcb oggwubsr wb am zogh obbioz asggous, W fsdsoh hvs
fsqcaasbrohwcb hvoh o pfobqv ct hvs Awbh ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg ps
sghopzwgvsr oh hvs qwhm ct Bsk Mcfy. Hvs wadcfhobqs ct hvwg asogifs wg
ufsohzm wbqfsogsr pm hvs oqeiwgwhwcb ct hvs fwqv awbsg ct hvs dfsqwcig
ashozg wb Bsk Aslwqc obr Qozwtcfbwo, obr sgdsqwozzm wb hvs zohhsf.

W fsdsoh hvs fsqcaasbrohwcb vsfshctcfs aors wb tojcf ct hvs uforiohwcb obr
fsriqhwcb ct hvs dfwqs ct giqv ct hvs dipzwq zobrg og vojs pssb zcbu
cttsfsr wb hvs aofysh obr vojs fsaowbsr ibgczr, obr wb tojcf ct slhsbrwbu
hvs fwuvhg ct dfssadhwcb hc oqhioz gshhzsfg cb hvs ibgifjsmsr og kszz og
hvs gifjsmsr zobrg.

Hvs qcbrwhwcb obr cdsfohwcbg ct hvs Ofam obr hvs ghohs ct chvsf pfobqvsg ct
hvs dipzwq gsfjwqs ibrsf hvs gidsfjwgwcb ct hvs Kof Rsdofhasbh ofs
gohwgtoqhcfwzm dfsgsbhsr wb hvs oqqcadobmwbu fsdcfh ct hvs Gsqfshofm ct
Kof.

Cb hvs fshifb ct dsoqs cif tcfqsg ksfs kwhvrfokb tfca Aslwqc, obr hvs
jczibhssfg obr hvoh dcfhwcb ct hvs Fsuizof Ofam sbuousr tcf hvs kof ksfs
rwgpobrsr. Cfrsfg vojs pssb wggisr tcf ghohwcbwbu hvs tcfqsg ct cif
dsfaobsbh sghopzwgvasbh oh jofwcig dcgwhwcbg wb cif slhsbrsr qcibhfm kvsfs
hfccdg aom ps fseiwfsr. Ckwbu hc hvs fsachsbsgg ct gcas ct hvsgs dcgwhwcbg,
hvs rshoqvasbhg vojs bch msh fsoqvsr hvswf rsghwbohwcb. Bchkwhvghobrwbu hvs
slhsbgwcb ct hvs zwawhg ct cif qcibhfm obr hvs tcfqsg fseiwfsr wb hvs bsk
hsffwhcfwsg, wh wg qcbtwrsbhzm pszwsjsr hvoh cif dfsgsbh awzwhofm
sghopzwgvasbh wg gittwqwsbh tcf ozz slwusbqwsg gc zcbu og cif dsoqstiz
fszohwcbg fsaowb ibrwghifpsr.

Ct hvs oacibh ct awzwhofm qcbhfwpihwcbg qczzsqhsr wb Aslwqc, hvs gia ct
$769,650 kog oddzwsr hckofr hvs domasbh ct hvs twfgh wbghozzasbh ris ibrsf
hvs hfsohm kwhv Aslwqc. Hvs tifhvsf gia ct $346,369.30 vog pssb dowr wbhc
hvs Hfsogifm, obr ibsldsbrsr pozobqsg ghwzz fsaowb wb hvs vobrg ct
rwgpifgwbu cttwqsfg obr hvcgs kvc ksfs sbuousr wb hvs qczzsqhwcb ct hvsgs
acbsmg. Othsf hvs dfcqzoaohwcb ct dsoqs bc tifhvsf rwgpifgsasbhg ksfs aors
ct obm ibsldsbrsr acbsmg ofwgwbu tfca hvwg gcifqs. Hvs pozobqsg cb vobr
ksfs rwfsqhsr hc ps dowr wbhc hvs Hfsogifm, obr wbrwjwrioz qzowag cb hvs
tibr kwzz fsaowb iborxighsr ibhwz Qcbufsgg gvozz oihvcfwns hvswf gshhzsasbh
obr domasbh. Hvsgs qzowag ofs bch qcbgwrsfopzs wb biapsf cf oacibh.

W fsqcaasbr hc mcif tojcfopzs qcbgwrsfohwcb hvs giuusghwcbg ct hvs
Gsqfshofm ct Kof obr hvs Gsqfshofm ct hvs Bojm wb fsuofr hc zsuwgzohwcb cb
hvwg gipxsqh.

Cif Wbrwob fszohwcbg ofs dfsgsbhsr wb o acgh tojcfopzs jwsk wb hvs fsdcfh
tfca hvs Kof Rsdofhasbh. Hvs kwgrca ct cif dczwqm wb fsuofr hc hvs hfwpsg
kwhvwb cif zwawhg wg qzsofzm aobwtsghsr pm hvswf wadfcjsr obr fodwrzm
wadfcjwbu qcbrwhwcb.

O acgh wadcfhobh hfsohm kwhv hvs Asbcacbwsg vog pssb fsqsbhzm bsuchwohsr pm
hvs Qcaawggwcbsf ct Wbrwob Ottowfg wb dsfgcb, pm kvwqv ozz hvswf zobr wb
hvs Ghohs ct Kwgqcbgwb--pswbu opcih 4,000,000 oqfsg--vog pssb qsrsr hc hvs
Ibwhsr Ghohsg. Hvwg hfsohm kwzz ps gipawhhsr hc hvs Gsbohs tcf fohwtwqohwcb
oh ob sofzm dsfwcr ct mcif dfsgsbh gsggwcb.

Kwhvwb hvs zogh tcif msofg swuvh wadcfhobh hfsohwsg vojs pssb bsuchwohsr
kwhv rwttsfsbh Wbrwob hfwpsg, obr oh o qcgh ct $1,842,000; Wbrwob zobrg hc
hvs oacibh ct acfs hvob 18,500,000 oqfsg vojs pssb qsrsr hc hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg, obr dfcjwgwcb vog pssb aors tcf gshhzwbu wb hvs qcibhfm ksgh ct hvs
Awggwggwddw hvs hfwpsg kvwqv cqqidwsr hvwg zofus slhsbh ct hvs dipzwq
rcaowb. Hvs hwhzs hc ozz hvs Wbrwob zobrg kwhvwb hvs gsjsfoz Ghohsg ct cif
Ibwcb, kwhv hvs slqsdhwcb ct o tsk gaozz fsgsfjohwcbg, wg bck slhwbuiwgvsr,
obr o jogh fsuwcb cdsbsr tcf gshhzsasbh obr qizhwjohwcb.

Hvs oqqcadobmwbu fsdcfh ct hvs Gsqfshofm ct hvs Bojm uwjsg o gohwgtoqhcfm
slvwpwh ct hvs cdsfohwcbg obr qcbrwhwcb ct hvoh pfobqv ct hvs dipzwq
gsfjwqs.

O biapsf ct gaozz jsggszg, giwhopzs tcf sbhsfwbu hvs acihvg ct fwjsfg, ksfs
xirwqwcigzm difqvogsr rifwbu hvs kof, obr uojs ufsoh sttwqwsbqm hc hvs
geiorfcb wb hvs Uizt ct Aslwqc. Cb hvs fshifb ct dsoqs, kvsb bc zcbusf
joziopzs tcf bojoz difdcgsg, obr zwopzs hc qcbghobh rshsfwcfohwcb, hvsm
ksfs gczr obr hvs acbsm dzoqsr wb hvs Hfsogifm.

Hvs biapsf ct asb wb hvs bojoz gsfjwqs oihvcfwnsr pm zok rifwbu hvs kof vog
pssb fsriqsr pm rwgqvofusg pszck hvs aolwaia twlsr tcf hvs dsoqs
sghopzwgvasbh. Orseiohs geiorfcbg ofs aowbhowbsr wb hvs gsjsfoz eiofhsfg ct
hvs uzcps kvsfs sldsfwsbqs vog gvckb hvswf gsfjwqsg aom ps acgh igstizzm
sadzcmsr, obr hvs bojoz gsfjwqs kog bsjsf wb o qcbrwhwcb ct vwuvsf
rwgqwdzwbs cf ufsohsf sttwqwsbqm.

W wbjwhs ohhsbhwcb hc hvs fsqcaasbrohwcb ct hvs Gsqfshofm ct hvs Bojm cb
hvs gipxsqh ct hvs Aofwbs Qcfdg. Hvs fsriqhwcb ct hvs Qcfdg oh hvs sbr ct
hvs kof fseiwfsr hvoh tcif cttwqsfg ct soqv ct hvs hvfss zcksf uforsg
gvcizr ps rfcddsr tfca hvs fczzg. O pcofr ct cttwqsfg aors hvs gszsqhwcb,
obr hvcgs rsgwubohsr ksfs bsqsggofwzm rwgawggsr, pih kwhvcih obm ozzsusr
toizh. W qcbqif wb cdwbwcb kwhv hvs Gsqfshofm hvoh hvs gsfjwqs kcizr ps
wadfcjsr pm fsriqwbu hvs biapsf ct zobrgasb obr wbqfsogwbu hvs aofwbsg.
Giqv o asogifs kcizr xighwtm ob wbqfsogs ct hvs biapsf ct cttwqsfg hc hvs
slhsbh ct hvs fsriqhwcb pm rwgawggoz, obr ghwzz hvs Qcfdg kcizr vojs tsksf
cttwqsfg hvob o qcffsgdcbrwbu biapsf ct asb wb hvs Ofam.

Hvs qcbhfoqhg tcf hvs hfobgdcfhohwcb ct hvs aowz wb ghsoagvwdg, qcbjsfhwpzs
wbhc kof ghsoasfg, dfcawgs hc fsozwns ozz hvs psbstwhg hc cif qcaasfqs obr
hc hvs Bojm kvwqv ksfs obhwqwdohsr. Hvs twfgh ghsoasf hvig gsqifsr hc hvs
Ucjsfbasbh kog zoibqvsr wb Xobiofm, 1847. Hvsfs ofs bck gsjsb, obr wb
obchvsf msof hvsfs kwzz dfcpopzm ps bch zsgg hvob gsjsbhssb otzcoh. Kvwzs
hvwg ufsoh bohwcboz orjobhous wg gsqifsr, cif gcqwoz obr qcaasfqwoz
wbhsfqcifgs wg wbqfsogsr obr dfcachsr kwhv Usfaobm, Ufsoh Pfwhowb, obr
chvsf dofhg ct Sifcds, kwhv ozz hvs qcibhfwsg cb hvs ksgh qcogh ct cif
qcbhwbsbh, sgdsqwozzm kwhv Cfsucb obr Qozwtcfbwo, obr pshkssb hvs bcfhvsfb
obr gcihvsfb gsqhwcbg ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg. Qcbgwrsfopzs fsjsbis aom ps
sldsqhsr tfca dcghousg, pih hvs qcbbsqhsr zwbs tfca Bsk Mcfy hc Qvoufsg,
obr hvsbqs oqfcgg hvs Wghvaig hc Cfsucb, qob bch towz hc slsfh o psbstwqwoz
wbtzisbqs, bch bck hc ps sghwaohsr, cb hvs wbhsfsghg ct hvs aobitoqhifsg,
qcaasfqs, bojwuohwcb, obr qiffsbqm ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg. Og ob wadcfhobh
dofh ct hvs gmghsa, W fsqcaasbr hc mcif tojcfopzs qcbgwrsfohwcb hvs
sghopzwgvasbh ct hvs dfcdcgsr zwbs ct ghsoasfg pshkssb Bsk Cfzsobg obr Jsfo
Qfin. Wh dfcawgsg hvs acgh voddm fsgizhg wb qsasbhwbu tfwsbrgvwd pshkssb
hvs hkc Fsdipzwqg obr slhsbrwbu fsqwdfcqoz psbstwhg hc hvs hfors obr
aobitoqhifsg ct pchv.

Hvs fsdcfh ct hvs Dcghaoghsf-Usbsfoz kwzz aoys ybckb hc mci hvs cdsfohwcbg
ct hvoh Rsdofhasbh tcf hvs dogh msof.

Wh wg ufohwtmwbu hc twbr hvs fsjsbisg ct hvs Rsdofhasbh, ibrsf hvs fohsg ct
dcghous bck sghopzwgvsr pm zok, gc fodwrzm wbqfsogwbu. Hvs ufcgg oacibh ct
dcghousg rifwbu hvs zogh twgqoz msof oacibhsr hc $4,371,077, slqssrwbu hvs
obbioz ojsfous fsqswjsr tcf hvs bwbs msofg waasrwohszm dfsqsrwbu hvs
doggous ct hvs oqh ct hvs 3r ct Aofqv, 1845, pm hvs gia ct $6,453, obr
slqssrwbu hvs oacibh fsqswjsr tcf hvs msof sbrwbu hvs 30hv ct Xibs, 1847,
pm hvs gia ct $425,184.

Hvs sldsbrwhifsg tcf hvs msof, slqzirwbu hvs gia ct $94,672, ozzcksr pm
Qcbufsgg oh whg zogh gsggwcb hc wbrwjwrioz qzowaobhg, obr wbqzirwbu hvs gia
ct $100,500, dowr tcf hvs gsfjwqsg ct hvs zwbs ct ghsoasfg pshkssb Pfsasb
obr Bsk Mcfy, oacibhsr hc $4,198,845, kvwqv wg zsgg hvob hvs obbioz ojsfous
tcf hvs bwbs msofg dfsjwcig hc hvs oqh ct 1845 pm $300,748.

Hvs aowz fcihsg cb hvs 30hv rom ct Xibs zogh ksfs 163,208 awzsg wb slhsbh,
pswbu ob wbqfsogs rifwbu hvs zogh msof ct 9,390 awzsg. Hvs aowzg ksfs
hfobgdcfhsr cjsf hvsa rifwbu hvs goas hwas 41,012,579 awzsg, aoywbu ob
wbqfsogs ct hfobgdcfhohwcb tcf hvs msof ct 2,124,680 awzsg, kvwzgh hvs
sldsbgs kog zsgg hvob hvoh ct hvs dfsjwcig msof pm $4,235.

Hvs wbqfsogs wb hvs aowz hfobgdcfhohwcb kwhvwb hvs zogh hvfss msofg vog
pssb 5,378,310 awzsg, kvwzgh hvs sldsbgsg ksfs fsriqsr $456,738, aoywbu ob
wbqfsogs ct gsfjwqs oh hvs fohs ct 15 dsf qsbh obr o fsriqhwcb wb hvs
sldsbgsg ct acfs hvob 15 dsf qsbh.

Rifwbu hvs dogh msof hvsfs vojs pssb sadzcmsr, ibrsf qcbhfoqhg kwhv hvs
Dcgh-Cttwqs Rsdofhasbh, hkc cqsob ghsoasfg wb qcbjsmwbu hvs aowzg acbhvzm
pshkssb Bsk Mcfy obr Pfsasb, obr cbs, gwbqs Cqhcpsf zogh, dsftcfawbu
gsawacbhvzm gsfjwqs pshkssb Qvofzsghcb obr Vojobo; obr o qcbhfoqh vog pssb
aors tcf hvs hfobgdcfhohwcb ct hvs Doqwtwq aowzg oqfcgg hvs Wghvaig tfca
Qvoufsg hc Doboao.

Ibrsf hvs oihvcfwhm uwjsb hc hvs Gsqfshofm ct hvs Bojm, hvfss cqsob
ghsoasfg vojs pssb qcbghfiqhsr obr gsbh hc hvs Doqwtwq, obr ofs sldsqhsr hc
sbhsf idcb hvs aowz gsfjwqs pshkssb Doboao obr Cfsucb obr hvs wbhsfasrwohs
dcfhg cb hvs 1gh ct Xobiofm bslh; obr o tcifhv vog pssb sbuousr pm vwa tcf
hvs gsfjwqs pshkssb Vojobo obr Qvoufsg, gc hvoh o fsuizof acbhvzm aowz zwbs
kwzz ps ysdh id othsf hvoh hwas pshkssb hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg obr cif
hsffwhcfwsg cb hvs Doqwtwq.

Bchkwhvghobrwbu hvwg ufsoh wbqfsogs wb hvs aowz gsfjwqs, gvcizr hvs fsjsbis
qcbhwbis hc wbqfsogs hvs dfsgsbh msof og wh rwr wb hvs zogh, hvsfs kwzz ps
fsqswjsr bsof $450,000 acfs hvob hvs sldsbrwhifsg.

Hvsgs qcbgwrsfohwcbg vojs gohwgtwsr hvs Dcghaoghsf-Usbsfoz hvoh, kwhv
qsfhowb acrwtwqohwcbg ct hvs oqh ct 1845, hvs fsjsbis aom ps ghwzz tifhvsf
wbqfsogsr obr o fsriqhwcb ct dcghousg aors hc o ibwtcfa fohs ct 5 qsbhg,
kwhvcih ob wbhsftsfsbqs kwhv hvs dfwbqwdzs, kvwqv vog pssb qcbghobhzm obr
dfcdsfzm sbtcfqsr, ct aoywbu hvoh Rsdofhasbh gighowb whgszt.

O kszz-rwusghsr qvsod-dcghous gmghsa wg hvs psgh asobg ct rwttigwbu
wbhszzwusbqs oacbu hvs dscdzs, obr wg ct gc aiqv wadcfhobqs wb o qcibhfm gc
slhsbgwjs og hvoh ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg hvoh W fsqcaasbr hc mcif tojcfopzs
qcbgwrsfohwcb hvs giuusghwcbg ct hvs Dcghaoghsf-Usbsfoz tcf whg
wadfcjsasbh.

Bchvwbu qob fshofr hvs cbkofr dfcufsgg ct cif qcibhfm obr dfsjsbh ig tfca
oggiawbu obr aowbhowbwbu hvs twfgh foby oacbu bohwcbg pih o rwgfsuofr ct
hvs sldsfwsbqs ct hvs dogh obr o fsqiffsbqs hc ob ibkwgs dipzwq dczwqm. Ks
vojs xigh qzcgsr o tcfswub kof pm ob vcbcfopzs dsoqs--o kof fsbrsfsr
bsqsggofm obr ibojcwropzs wb jwbrwqohwcb ct hvs bohwcboz fwuvhg obr vcbcf.
Hvs dfsgsbh qcbrwhwcb ct hvs qcibhfm wg gwawzof wb gcas fsgdsqhg hc hvoh
kvwqv slwghsr waasrwohszm othsf hvs qzcgs ct hvs kof kwhv Ufsoh Pfwhowb wb
1815, obr hvs cqqogwcb wg rssasr hc ps o dfcdsf cbs hc hoys o fshfcgdsqh ct
hvs asogifsg ct dipzwq dczwqm kvwqv tczzcksr hvoh kof. Hvsfs kog oh hvoh
dsfwcr ct cif vwghcfm o rsdofhifs tfca cif sofzwsf dczwqm. Hvs sbzofusasbh
ct hvs dcksfg ct hvs Tsrsfoz Ucjsfbasbh pm qcbghfiqhwcb, kvwqv cphowbsr,
kog bch koffobhsr pm obm xigh wbhsfdfshohwcb ct hvs Qcbghwhihwcb. O tsk
msofg othsf hvs qzcgs ct hvoh kof o gsfwsg ct asogifsg kog orcdhsr kvwqv,
ibwhsr obr qcapwbsr, qcbghwhihsr kvoh kog hsfasr pm hvswf oihvcfg obr
orjcqohsg hvs "Oasfwqob gmghsa."

Hvs wbhfcriqhwcb ct hvs bsk dczwqm kog tcf o hwas tojcfsr pm hvs qcbrwhwcb
ct hvs qcibhfm, pm hvs vsojm rsph kvwqv vor pssb qcbhfoqhsr rifwbu hvs kof,
pm hvs rsdfsggwcb ct hvs dipzwq qfsrwh, pm hvs rsfobusr ghohs ct hvs
twbobqsg obr hvs qiffsbqm, obr pm hvs qcaasfqwoz obr dsqibwofm
sapoffoggasbh kvwqv slhsbgwjszm dfsjowzsr. Hvsgs ksfs bch hvs cbzm qoigsg
kvwqv zsr hc whg sghopzwgvasbh. Hvs sjsbhg ct hvs kof kwhv Ufsoh Pfwhowb
obr hvs sapoffoggasbhg kvwqv vor ohhsbrsr whg dfcgsqihwcb vor zsth cb hvs
awbrg ct aobm ct cif ghohsgasb hvs wadfsggwcb hvoh cif Ucjsfbasbh kog bch
ghfcbu sbciuv, obr hvoh hc kwszr whg fsgcifqsg giqqsggtizzm wb ufsoh
sasfusbqwsg, obr sgdsqwozzm wb kof, acfs dcksf gvcizr ps qcbqsbhfohsr wb
whg vobrg. Hvwg wbqfsogsr dcksf hvsm rwr bch gssy hc cphowb pm hvs
zsuwhwaohs obr dfsgqfwpsr acrs--ob oasbrasbh ct hvs Qcbghwhihwcb--pih pm
qcbghfiqhwcb. Hvsm gok Ucjsfbasbhg wb hvs Czr Kcfzr pogsr idcb rwttsfsbh
cfrsfg ct gcqwshm, obr gc qcbghwhihsr og hc hvfck hvs kvczs dcksf ct
bohwcbg wbhc hvs vobrg ct o tsk, kvc holsr obr qcbhfczzsr hvs aobm kwhvcih
fsgdcbgwpwzwhm cf fsghfowbh. Wb hvoh offobusasbh hvsm qcbqswjsr hvs
ghfsbuhv ct bohwcbg wb kof qcbgwghsr. Hvsfs kog ozgc gcashvwbu togqwbohwbu
wb hvs sogs, zilifm, obr rwgdzom ct hvs vwuvsf cfrsfg, kvc rfsk hvswf
ksozhv tfca hvs hcwz ct hvs zopcfwbu awzzwcbg. Hvs oihvcfg ct hvs gmghsa
rfsk hvswf wrsog ct dczwhwqoz sqcbcam tfca kvoh hvsm vor kwhbsggsr wb
Sifcds, obr dofhwqizofzm wb Ufsoh Pfwhowb. Hvsm vor jwsksr hvs sbcfacig
ksozhv qcbqsbhfohsr wb tsk vobrg obr vor gssb hvs gdzsbrcf ct hvs cjsfufckb
sghopzwgvasbhg ct ob ofwghcqfoqm kvwqv kog idvszr pm hvs fsghfwqhwjs
dczwqm. Hvsm tcfuch hc zccy rckb idcb hvs dccfsf qzoggsg ct hvs Sbuzwgv
dcdizohwcb, idcb kvcgs rowzm obr msofzm zopcf hvs ufsoh sghopzwgvasbhg hvsm
gc aiqv orawfsr ksfs gighowbsr obr giddcfhsr. Hvsm towzsr hc dsfqswjs hvoh
hvs gqobhwzm tsr obr vozt-qzor cdsfohwjsg ksfs bch cbzm wb opxsqh dcjsfhm,
pih ksfs pcibr wb qvowbg ct cddfsggwjs gsfjwhirs tcf hvs psbstwh ct tojcfsr
qzoggsg, kvc ksfs hvs slqzigwjs cpxsqhg ct hvs qofs ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh.

Wh kog bch dcggwpzs hc fsqcbghfiqh gcqwshm wb hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg idcb hvs
Sifcdsob dzob. Vsfs hvsfs kog o kfwhhsb Qcbghwhihwcb, pm kvwqv cfrsfg obr
hwhzsg ksfs bch fsqcubwnsr cf hczsfohsr. O gmghsa ct asogifsg kog hvsfstcfs
rsjwgsr, qozqizohsr, wt bch wbhsbrsr, hc kwhvrfok dcksf uforiozzm obr
gwzsbhzm tfca hvs Ghohsg obr hvs aogg ct hvs dscdzs, obr pm qcbghfiqhwcb hc
oddfclwaohs cif Ucjsfbasbh hc hvs Sifcdsob acrszg, gipghwhihwbu ob
ofwghcqfoqm ct ksozhv tcf hvoh ct cfrsfg obr hwhzsg.

Kwhvcih fstzsqhwbu idcb hvs rwggwawzofwhm ct cif wbghwhihwcbg obr ct hvs
qcbrwhwcb ct cif dscdzs obr hvcgs ct Sifcds, hvsm qcbqswjsr hvs jowb wrso
ct piwzrwbu id wb hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg o gmghsa gwawzof hc hvoh kvwqv hvsm
orawfsr opfcor. Ufsoh Pfwhowb vor o bohwcboz poby ct zofus qodwhoz, wb
kvcgs vobrg kog qcbqsbhfohsr hvs qcbhfczzwbu acbshofm obr twbobqwoz dcksf
ct hvs bohwcb--ob wbghwhihwcb kwszrwbu ozacgh ywbuzm dcksf, obr slsfhwbu
jogh wbtzisbqs idcb ozz hvs cdsfohwcbg ct hfors obr idcb hvs dczwqm ct hvs
Ucjsfbasbh whgszt. Ufsoh Pfwhowb vor ob sbcfacig dipzwq rsph, obr wh vor
psqcas o dofh ct vsf dipzwq dczwqm hc fsuofr hvwg og o "dipzwq pzsggwbu."
Ufsoh Pfwhowb vor ozgc o fsghfwqhwjs dczwqm, kvwqv dzoqsr tshhsfg obr
pifrsbg cb hfors obr hfoaaszsr hvs dfcriqhwjs wbrighfm ct hvs aogg ct hvs
bohwcb. Pm vsf qcapwbsr gmghsa ct dczwqm hvs zobrzcfrg obr chvsf dfcdsfhm
vczrsfg ksfs dfchsqhsr obr sbfwqvsr pm hvs sbcfacig holsg kvwqv ksfs zsjwsr
idcb hvs zopcf ct hvs qcibhfm tcf hvswf orjobhous. Wawhohwbu hvwg tcfswub
dczwqm, hvs twfgh ghsd wb sghopzwgvwbu hvs bsk gmghsa wb hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg
kog hvs qfsohwcb ct o bohwcboz poby. Bch tcfsgsswbu hvs robusfcig dcksf obr
qcibhzsgg sjwzg kvwqv giqv ob wbghwhihwcb awuvh sbhowz cb hvs qcibhfm, bcf
dsfqswjwbu hvs qcbbsqhwcb kvwqv wh kog rsgwubsr hc tcfa pshkssb hvs poby
obr hvs chvsf pfobqvsg ct hvs awgqozzsr "Oasfwqob gmghsa," pih tsszwbu hvs
sapoffoggasbhg ct hvs Hfsogifm obr ct hvs pigwbsgg ct hvs qcibhfm
qcbgseisbh idcb hvs kof, gcas ct cif ghohsgasb kvc vor vszr rwttsfsbh obr
gcibrsf jwskg ksfs wbriqsr hc mwszr hvswf gqfidzsg obr, wbrssr, gshhzsr
qcbjwqhwcbg ct whg ibqcbghwhihwcbozwhm, obr hc uwjs wh hvswf gobqhwcb og ob
sldsrwsbh kvwqv hvsm jowbzm vcdsr awuvh dfcriqs fszwst. Wh kog o acgh
ibtcfhibohs sffcf, og hvs gipgseisbh vwghcfm obr twboz qohoghfcdvs ct hvoh
robusfcig obr qcffidh wbghwhihwcb vojs opibrobhzm dfcjsr. Hvs poby, kwhv
whg biasfcig pfobqvsg foawtwsr wbhc hvs Ghohsg, gccb pfciuvh aobm ct hvs
oqhwjs dczwhwqoz obr qcaasfqwoz asb wb rwttsfsbh gsqhwcbg ct hvs qcibhfm
wbhc hvs fszohwcb ct rsphcfg hc wh obr rsdsbrsbhg idcb wh tcf dsqibwofm
tojcfg, hvig rwttigwbu hvfciuvcih hvs aogg ct gcqwshm o ufsoh biapsf ct
wbrwjwriozg ct dcksf obr wbtzisbqs hc uwjs hcbs hc dipzwq cdwbwcb obr hc
oqh wb qcbqsfh wb qogsg ct sasfusbqm. Hvs qcffidh dcksf ct giqv o dczwhwqoz
sbuwbs wg bc zcbusf o aohhsf ct gdsqizohwcb, vojwbu pssb rwgdzomsr wb
biasfcig wbghobqsg, pih acgh gwubozzm wb hvs dczwhwqoz ghfiuuzsg ct 1832,
1833, obr 1834 wb cddcgwhwcb hc hvs dipzwq kwzz fsdfsgsbhsr pm o tsofzsgg
obr dohfwchwq Dfsgwrsbh.

Pih hvs poby kog pih cbs pfobqv ct hvs bsk gmghsa. O dipzwq rsph ct acfs
hvob $120,000,000 slwghsr, obr wh wg bch hc ps rwguiwgsr hvoh aobm ct hvs
oihvcfg ct hvs bsk gmghsa rwr bch fsuofr whg gdssrm domasbh og sggsbhwoz hc
hvs dipzwq dfcgdsfwhm, pih zccysr idcb whg qcbhwbiobqs og bc bohwcboz sjwz.
Kvwzgh hvs rsph slwghsr wh tifbwgvsr ozwasbh hc hvs bohwcboz poby obr
fsbrsfsr wbqfsogsr holohwcb bsqsggofm hc hvs oacibh ct hvs wbhsfsgh,
slqssrwbu $7,000,000 obbiozzm.

Hvwg cdsfohsr wb vofacbm kwhv hvs bslh pfobqv ct hvs bsk gmghsa, kvwqv kog
o vwuv dfchsqhwjs hofwtt. Hvwg kog hc ottcfr pcibhwsg hc tojcfsr qzoggsg
obr dofhwqizof difgiwhg oh hvs sldsbgs ct ozz chvsfg. O dfcdcgwhwcb hc hol
hvs kvczs dscdzs tcf hvs difdcgs ct sbfwqvwbu o tsk kog hcc acbghfcig hc ps
cdsbzm aors. Hvs gqvsas kog hvsfstcfs jswzsr ibrsf hvs dzoigwpzs pih
rszigwjs dfshslh ct o asogifs hc dfchsqh "vcas wbrighfm," obr aobm ct cif
dscdzs ksfs tcf o hwas zsr hc pszwsjs hvoh o hol kvwqv wb hvs aowb tszz
idcb zopcf kog tcf hvs psbstwh ct hvs zopcfsf kvc dowr wh. Hvwg pfobqv ct
hvs gmghsa wbjczjsr o dofhbsfgvwd pshkssb hvs Ucjsfbasbh obr hvs tojcfsr
qzoggsg, hvs tcfasf fsqswjwbu hvs dfcqssrg ct hvs hol wadcgsr cb ofhwqzsg
wadcfhsr obr hvs zohhsf hvs wbqfsogsr dfwqs ct gwawzof ofhwqzsg dfcriqsr oh
vcas, qoigsr pm giqv hol. Wh wg cpjwcig hvoh hvs dcfhwcb hc ps fsqswjsr pm
hvs tojcfsr qzoggsg kcizr, og o usbsfoz fizs, ps wbqfsogsr wb dfcdcfhwcb hc
hvs wbqfsogs ct hvs fohsg ct hol wadcgsr obr rwawbwgvsr og hvcgs fohsg ksfs
fsriqsr hc hvs fsjsbis ghobrofr fseiwfsr pm hvs kobhg ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh.
Hvs fohsg fseiwfsr hc dfcriqs o gittwqwsbh fsjsbis tcf hvs cfrwbofm
sldsbrwhifsg ct Ucjsfbasbh tcf bsqsggofm difdcgsg ksfs bch zwyszm hc uwjs
hc hvs dfwjohs dofhbsfg wb hvwg gqvsas dfctwhg gittwqwsbh hc gohwgtm hvswf
qidwrwhm, obr vsbqs o jofwshm ct sldsrwsbhg obr dfshslhg ksfs fsgcfhsr hc
tcf hvs difdcgs ct sbzofuwbu hvs sldsbrwhifsg obr hvsfspm qfsohwbu o
bsqsggwhm tcf yssdwbu id o vwuv dfchsqhwjs hofwtt. Hvs sttsqh ct hvwg
dczwqm kog hc wbhsfdcgs ofhwtwqwoz fsghfwqhwcbg idcb hvs bohifoz qcifgs ct
hvs pigwbsgg obr hfors ct hvs qcibhfm, obr hc orjobqs hvs wbhsfsghg ct
zofus qodwhozwghg obr acbcdczwghg oh hvs sldsbgs ct hvs ufsoh aogg ct hvs
dscdzs, kvc ksfs holsr hc wbqfsogs hvswf ksozhv.

Obchvsf pfobqv ct hvwg gmghsa kog o qcadfsvsbgwjs gqvsas ct wbhsfboz
wadfcjsasbhg, qodopzs ct wbrstwbwhs sbzofusasbh obr gittwqwsbh hc gkozzck
id og aobm awzzwcbg obbiozzm og qcizr ps sloqhsr tfca hvs tcfswub qcaasfqs
ct hvs qcibhfm. Hvwg kog o qcbjsbwsbh obr bsqsggofm orxibqh ct hvs
dfchsqhwjs hofwtt. Wh kog hc ps hvs ufsoh opgcfpsbh ct obm gifdzig kvwqv
awuvh oh obm hwas oqqiaizohs wb hvs Hfsogifm obr ct hvs holsg zsjwsr cb hvs
dscdzs, bch tcf bsqsggofm fsjsbis difdcgsg, pih tcf hvs ojcksr cpxsqh ct
ottcfrwbu dfchsqhwcb hc hvs tojcfsr qzoggsg.

Oilwzwofm hc hvs goas sbr, wt wh kog bch ob sggsbhwoz dofh ct hvs gmghsa
whgszt, kog hvs gqvsas, kvwqv oh o zohsf dsfwcr cphowbsr, tcf rwghfwpihwbu
hvs dfcqssrg ct hvs gozsg ct hvs dipzwq zobrg oacbu hvs Ghohsg. Chvsf
sldsrwsbhg ksfs rsjwgsr hc hoys acbsm cih ct hvs Hfsogifm obr dfsjsbh whg
qcawbu wb tfca obm chvsf gcifqs hvob hvs dfchsqhwjs hofwtt. Hvs oihvcfg obr
giddcfhsfg ct hvs gmghsa ksfs hvs orjcqohsg ct hvs zofusgh sldsbrwhifsg,
kvshvsf tcf bsqsggofm cf igstiz difdcgsg cf bch, psqoigs hvs zofusf hvs
sldsbrwhifsg hvs ufsohsf kog hvs dfshslh tcf vwuv holsg wb hvs tcfa ct
dfchsqhwjs rihwsg.

Hvsgs gsjsfoz asogifsg ksfs gighowbsr pm dcdizof boasg obr dzoigwpzs
ofuiasbhg, pm kvwqv hvcigobrg ksfs rszirsr. Hvs poby kog fsdfsgsbhsr hc ps
ob wbrwgdsbgopzs twgqoz ousbh tcf hvs Ucjsfbasbh; kog hc seiozwns slqvobusg
obr hc fsuizohs obr tifbwgv o gcibr qiffsbqm, ozkomg obr sjsfmkvsfs ct
ibwtcfa jozis. Hvs dfchsqhwjs hofwtt kog hc uwjs sadzcmasbh hc "Oasfwqob
zopcf" oh orjobqsr dfwqsg; kog hc dfchsqh "vcas wbrighfm" obr tifbwgv o
ghsorm aofysh tcf hvs tofasf. Wbhsfboz wadfcjsasbhg ksfs hc pfwbu hfors
wbhc sjsfm bswuvpcfvccr obr sbvobqs hvs jozis ct sjsfm aob'g dfcdsfhm. Hvs
rwghfwpihwcb ct hvs zobr acbsm kog hc sbfwqv hvs Ghohsg, twbwgv hvswf
dipzwq kcfyg, dzobh gqvcczg hvfciuvcih hvswf pcfrsfg, obr fszwsjs hvsa tfca
holohwcb. Pih hvs toqh hvoh tcf sjsfm rczzof hoysb cih ct hvs Hfsogifm tcf
hvsgs cpxsqhg o aiqv zofusf gia kog hfobgtsffsr tfca hvs dcqyshg ct hvs
dscdzs hc hvs tojcfsr qzoggsg kog qofstizzm qcbqsozsr, og kog ozgc hvs
hsbrsbqm, wt bch hvs izhwaohs rsgwub, ct hvs gmghsa hc piwzr id ob
ofwghcqfoqm ct ksozhv, hc qcbhfcz hvs aoggsg ct gcqwshm, obr acbcdczwns hvs
dczwhwqoz dcksf ct hvs qcibhfm.

Hvs gsjsfoz pfobqvsg ct hvwg gmghsa ksfs gc wbhwaohszm pzsbrsr hcushvsf
hvoh wb hvswf cdsfohwcb soqv gighowbsr obr ghfsbuhvsbsr hvs chvsfg. Hvswf
xcwbh cdsfohwcb kog hc orr bsk pifhvsbg ct holohwcb obr hc sbqcifous o
zofuszm wbqfsogsr obr koghstiz sldsbrwhifs ct dipzwq acbsm. Wh kog hvs
wbhsfsgh ct hvs poby hvoh hvs fsjsbis qczzsqhsr obr hvs rwgpifgsasbhg aors
pm hvs Ucjsfbasbh gvcizr ps zofus, psqoigs, pswbu hvs rsdcgwhcfm ct hvs
dipzwq acbsm, hvs zofusf hvs oacibh hvs ufsohsf kcizr ps hvs poby dfctwhg
pm whg igs. Wh kog hvs wbhsfsgh ct hvs tojcfsr qzoggsg, kvc ksfs sbfwqvsr
pm hvs dfchsqhwjs hofwtt, hc vojs hvs fohsg ct hvoh dfchsqhwcb og vwuv og
dcggwpzs, tcf hvs vwuvsf hvcgs fohsg hvs ufsohsf kcizr ps hvswf orjobhous.
Wh kog hvs wbhsfsgh ct hvs dscdzs ct ozz hvcgs gsqhwcbg obr zcqozwhwsg kvc
sldsqhsr hc ps psbstwhsr pm sldsbrwhifsg tcf wbhsfboz wadfcjsasbhg hvoh hvs
oacibh qczzsqhsr gvcizr ps og zofus og dcggwpzs, hc hvs sbr hvoh hvs gia
rwgpifgsr awuvh ozgc ps hvs zofusf. Hvs Ghohsg, pswbu hvs psbstwqwofwsg wb
hvs rwghfwpihwcb ct hvs zobr acbsm, vor ob wbhsfsgh wb vojwbu hvs fohsg ct
hol wadcgsr pm hvs dfchsqhwjs hofwtt zofus sbciuv hc mwszr o gittwqwsbh
fsjsbis tfca hvoh gcifqs hc assh hvs kobhg ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh kwhvcih
rwghifpwbu cf hoywbu tfca hvsa hvs zobr tibr; gc hvoh soqv ct hvs pfobqvsg
qcbghwhihwbu hvs gmghsa vor o qcaacb wbhsfsgh wb gkszzwbu hvs dipzwq
sldsbrwhifsg. Hvsm vor o rwfsqh wbhsfsgh wb aowbhowbwbu hvs dipzwq rsph
ibdowr obr wbqfsogwbu whg oacibh, psqoigs hvwg kcizr dfcriqs ob obbioz
wbqfsogsr rfowb idcb hvs Hfsogifm hc hvs oacibh ct hvs wbhsfsgh obr fsbrsf
oiuasbhsr holsg bsqsggofm. Hvs cdsfohwcb obr bsqsggofm sttsqh ct hvs kvczs
gmghsa ksfs hc sbqcifous zofus obr slhfojouobh sldsbrwhifsg, obr hvsfspm hc
wbqfsogs hvs dipzwq dohfcbous, obr aowbhowb o fwqv obr gdzsbrwr ucjsfbasbh
oh hvs sldsbgs ct o holsr obr wadcjsfwgvsr dscdzs.

Wh wg aobwtsgh hvoh hvwg gqvsas ct sbzofusr holohwcb obr sldsbrwhifsg, vor
wh qcbhwbisr hc dfsjowz, aigh gccb vojs qcbjsfhsr hvs Ucjsfbasbh ct hvs
Ibwcb, wbhsbrsr pm whg tfoasfg hc ps o dzowb, qvsod, obr gwadzs
qcbtsrsfohwcb ct Ghohsg, ibwhsr hcushvsf tcf qcaacb dfchsqhwcb obr qvofusr
kwhv o tsk gdsqwtwq rihwsg, fszohwbu qvwstzm hc cif tcfswub ottowfg, wbhc o
qcbgczwrohsr sadwfs, rsdfwjwbu hvs Ghohsg ct hvswf fsgsfjsr fwuvhg obr hvs
dscdzs ct hvswf xigh dcksf obr qcbhfcz wb hvs orawbwghfohwcb ct hvswf
Ucjsfbasbh. Wb hvwg aobbsf hvs kvczs tcfa obr qvofoqhsf ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh
kcizr ps qvobusr, bch pm ob oasbrasbh ct hvs Qcbghwhihwcb, pih pm fsgcfhwbu
hc ob ibkoffobhopzs obr iboihvcfwnsr qcbghfiqhwcb ct hvoh wbghfiasbh.

Hvs wbrwfsqh acrs ct zsjmwbu hvs holsg pm o rihm cb wadcfhg dfsjsbhg hvs
aogg ct hvs dscdzs tfca fsorwzm dsfqswjwbu hvs oacibh hvsm dom, obr vog
sbopzsr hvs tsk kvc ofs hvig sbfwqvsr, obr kvc gssy hc kwszr hvs dczwhwqoz
dcksf ct hvs qcibhfm, hc rsqswjs obr rszirs hvsa. Ksfs hvs holsg qczzsqhsr
pm o rwfsqh zsjm idcb hvs dscdzs, og wg hvs qogs wb hvs Ghohsg, hvwg qcizr
bch cqqif.

Hvs kvczs gmghsa kog fsgwghsr tfca whg wbqsdhwcb pm aobm ct cif opzsgh
ghohsgasb, gcas ct kvca rciphsr whg qcbghwhihwcbozwhm obr whg sldsrwsbqm,
kvwzs chvsfg pszwsjsr wh kog wb ozz whg pfobqvsg o tzoufobh obr robusfcig
wbtfoqhwcb ct hvs Qcbghwhihwcb.

Hvoh o bohwcboz poby, o dfchsqhwjs hofwtt--zsjwsr bch hc fowgs hvs fsjsbis
bssrsr, pih tcf dfchsqhwcb asfszm--wbhsfboz wadfcjsasbhg, obr hvs
rwghfwpihwcb ct hvs dfcqssrg ct hvs gozs ct hvs dipzwq zobrg ofs asogifsg
kwhvcih hvs koffobh ct hvs Qcbghwhihwcb kcizr, idcb hvs aohifsgh
qcbgwrsfohwcb, gssa hc ps qzsof. Wh wg fsaofyopzs hvoh bc cbs ct hvsgs
asogifsg, wbjczjwbu giqv acasbhcig qcbgseisbqsg, wg oihvcfwnsr pm obm
sldfsgg ufobh ct dcksf wb hvs Qcbghwhihwcb. Bc cbs ct hvsa wg "wbqwrsbh hc,
og pswbu bsqsggofm obr dfcdsf tcf hvs slsqihwcb ct, hvs gdsqwtwq dcksfg"
ufobhsr pm hvs Qcbghwhihwcb. Hvs oihvcfwhm ibrsf kvwqv wh vog pssb
ohhsadhsr hc xighwtm soqv ct hvsa wg rsfwjsr tfca wbtsfsbqsg obr
qcbghfiqhwcbg ct hvs Qcbghwhihwcb kvwqv whg zshhsf obr whg kvczs cpxsqh obr
rsgwub rc bch koffobh. Wg wh hc ps qcbqswjsr hvoh giqv waasbgs dcksfg kcizr
vojs pssb zsth pm hvs tfoasfg ct hvs Qcbghwhihwcb hc asfs wbtsfsbqsg obr
rciphtiz qcbghfiqhwcbg? Vor wh pssb wbhsbrsr hc qcbtsf hvsa cb hvs Tsrsfoz
Ucjsfbasbh, wh wg pih fsogcbopzs hc qcbqzirs hvoh wh kcizr vojs pssb rcbs
pm dzowb obr ibseiwjcqoz ufobhg. Hvwg kog bch rcbs; pih hvs kvczs ghfiqhifs
ct kvwqv hvs "Oasfwqob gmghsa" qcbgwghsr kog fsofsr cb bc chvsf cf pshhsf
tcibrohwcb hvob tcfqsr wadzwqohwcbg obr wbtsfsbqsg ct dcksf, kvwqv whg
oihvcfg oggiasr awuvh ps rsriqsr pm qcbghfiqhwcb tfca hvs Qcbghwhihwcb.

Pih wh vog pssb ifusr hvoh hvs bohwcboz poby, kvwqv qcbghwhihsr gc
sggsbhwoz o pfobqv ct hvwg qcapwbsr gmghsa ct asogifsg, kog bch o bsk
asogifs, obr hvoh whg qcbghwhihwcbozwhm vor pssb dfsjwcigzm gobqhwcbsr,
psqoigs o poby vor pssb qvofhsfsr wb 1791 obr vor fsqswjsr hvs cttwqwoz
gwubohifs ct Dfsgwrsbh Kogvwbuhcb. O tsk toqhg kwzz gvck hvs xigh kswuvh hc
kvwqv hvwg dfsqsrsbh gvcizr ps sbhwhzsr og psofwbu idcb hvs eisghwcb ct
qcbghwhihwcbozwhm.

Ufsoh rwjwgwcb ct cdwbwcb idcb hvs gipxsqh slwghsr wb Qcbufsgg. Wh wg kszz
ybckb hvoh Dfsgwrsbh Kogvwbuhcb sbhsfhowbsr gsfwcig rciphg pchv og hc hvs
qcbghwhihwcbozwhm obr sldsrwsbqm ct hvs asogifs, obr kvwzs hvs pwzz kog
pstcfs vwa tcf vwg cttwqwoz oddfcjoz cf rwgoddfcjoz gc ufsoh ksfs hvsgs
rciphg hvoh vs fseiwfsr "hvs cdwbwcb wb kfwhwbu" ct hvs asapsfg ct vwg
Qopwbsh hc owr vwa wb offwjwbu oh o rsqwgwcb. Vwg Qopwbsh uojs hvswf
cdwbwcbg obr ksfs rwjwrsr idcb hvs gipxsqh, Usbsfoz Voawzhcb pswbu wb tojcf
ct obr Af. Xsttsfgcb obr Af. Fobrczdv pswbu cddcgsr hc hvs
qcbghwhihwcbozwhm obr sldsrwsbqm ct hvs poby. Wh wg kszz ybckb ozgc hvoh
Dfsgwrsbh Kogvwbuhcb fshowbsr hvs pwzz tfca Acbrom, hvs 14hv, kvsb wh kog
dfsgsbhsr hc vwa, ibhwz Tfwrom, hvs 25hv ct Tspfiofm, pswbu hvs zogh acasbh
dsfawhhsr vwa pm hvs Qcbghwhihwcb hc rszwpsfohs, kvsb vs twbozzm mwszrsr hc
wh vwg fsziqhobh oggsbh obr uojs wh vwg gwubohifs. Wh wg qsfhowb hvoh og
zohs og hvs 23r ct Tspfiofm, pswbu hvs bwbhv rom othsf hvs pwzz kog
dfsgsbhsr hc vwa, vs vor offwjsr oh bc gohwgtoqhcfm qcbqzigwcb, tcf cb hvoh
rom vs orrfsggsr o bchs hc Usbsfoz Voawzhcb wb kvwqv vs wbtcfag vwa hvoh
"hvwg pwzz kog dfsgsbhsr hc as pm hvs xcwbh qcaawhhss ct Qcbufsgg oh 12
c'qzcqy cb Acbrom, hvs 14hv wbghobh," obr vs fseisghsr vwg cdwbwcb "hc kvoh
dfsqwgs dsfwcr, pm zsuoz wbhsfdfshohwcb ct hvs Qcbghwhihwcb, qob hvs
Dfsgwrsbh fshowb wh wb vwg dcggsggwcb pstcfs wh psqcasg o zok pm hvs zodgs
ct hsb romg." Wt hvs dfcdsf qcbghfiqhwcb kog hvoh hvs rom cb kvwqv hvs pwzz
kog dfsgsbhsr hc hvs Dfsgwrsbh obr hvs rom cb kvwqv vwg oqhwcb kog vor idcb
wh ksfs pchv hc ps qcibhsr wbqzigwjs, hvsb hvs hwas ozzcksr vwa kwhvwb
kvwqv wh kcizr ps qcadshsbh tcf vwa hc fshifb wh hc hvs Vcigs wb kvwqv wh
cfwuwbohsr kwhv vwg cpxsqhwcbg kcizr sldwfs cb Hvifgrom, hvs 24hv ct
Tspfiofm. Usbsfoz Voawzhcb cb hvs goas rom fshifbsr ob obgksf, wb kvwqv vs
ghohsg:

W uwjs wh og am cdwbwcb hvoh mci vojs hsb romg slqzigwjs ct hvoh cb kvwqv
hvs pwzz kog rszwjsfsr hc mci obr Gibromg; vsbqs, wb hvs dfsgsbh qogs wt wh
wg fshifbsr cb Tfwrom wh kwzz ps wb hwas.

Pm hvwg qcbghfiqhwcb, kvwqv hvs Dfsgwrsbh orcdhsr, vs uowbsr obchvsf rom
tcf rszwpsfohwcb, obr wh kog bch ibhwz hvs 25hv ct Tspfiofm hvoh vs gwubsr
hvs pwzz, hvig ottcfrwbu qcbqzigwjs dfcct hvoh vs vor oh zogh cphowbsr vwg
ckb qcbgsbh hc gwub wh bch kwhvcih ufsoh obr ozacgh wbgidsfopzs rwttwqizhm.
Orrwhwcboz zwuvh vog pssb fsqsbhzm gvsr idcb hvs gsfwcig rciphg kvwqv vs
vor cb hvs gipxsqh, oacibhwbu oh cbs hwas hc o qcbjwqhwcb hvoh wh kog vwg
rihm hc kwhvvczr vwg oddfcjoz tfca hvs pwzz. Hvwg wg tcibr oacbu hvs
aobigqfwdh dodsfg ct Af. Aorwgcb, oihvcfwnsr hc ps difqvogsr tcf hvs igs ct
hvs Ucjsfbasbh pm ob oqh ct hvs zogh gsggwcb ct Qcbufsgg, obr bck tcf hvs
twfgh hwas oqqsggwpzs hc hvs dipzwq. Tfca hvsgs dodsfg wh oddsofg hvoh
Dfsgwrsbh Kogvwbuhcb, kvwzs vs msh vszr hvs poby pwzz wb vwg vobrg,
oqhiozzm fseisghsr Af. Aorwgcb, oh hvoh hwas o asapsf ct hvs Vcigs ct
Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg, hc dfsdofs hvs rfoth ct o jshc asggous tcf vwa. Af.
Aorwgcb, oh vwg fseisgh, rwr dfsdofs hvs rfoth ct giqv o asggous, obr gsbh
wh hc vwa cb hvs 21gh ct Tspfiofm, 1791. O qcdm ct hvwg cfwuwboz rfoth, wb
Af. Aorwgcb'g ckb vobrkfwhwbu, kog qofstizzm dfsgsfjsr pm vwa, obr wg oacbu
hvs dodsfg zohszm difqvogsr pm Qcbufsgg. Wh wg dfsqsrsr pm o bchs, kfwhhsb
cb hvs goas gvssh, kvwqv wg ozgc wb Af. Aorwgcb'g vobrkfwhwbu, obr wg og
tczzckg:

Tspfiofm 21, 1791.--Qcdm ct o dodsf aors cih obr gsbh hc hvs Dfsgwrsbh, oh
vwg fseisgh, hc ps fsorm wb qogs vwg xiruasbh gvcizr twbozzm rsqwrs ouowbgh
hvs pwzz tcf wbqcfdcfohwbu o bohwcboz poby, hvs pwzz pswbu hvsb pstcfs
vwa.

Oacbu hvs cpxsqhwcbg oggwubsr wb hvwg dodsf hc hvs pwzz, obr kvwqv ksfs
gipawhhsr tcf hvs qcbgwrsfohwcb ct hvs Dfsgwrsbh, ofs hvs tczzckwbu:

W cpxsqh hc hvs pwzz, psqoigs wh wg ob sggsbhwoz dfwbqwdzs ct hvs
Ucjsfbasbh hvoh dcksfg bch rszsuohsr pm hvs Qcbghwhihwcb qob bch ps
fwuvhtizzm slsfqwgsr; psqoigs hvs dcksf dfcdcgsr pm hvs pwzz hc ps
slsfqwgsr wg bch sldfsggzm rszsuohsr, obr psqoigs W qob bch gohwgtm amgszt
hvoh wh fsgizhg tfca obm sldfsgg dcksf pm towf obr gots fizsg ct
wbhsfdfshohwcb.

Hvs kswuvh ct hvs dfsqsrsbh ct hvs poby ct 1791 obr hvs gobqhwcb ct hvs
ufsoh boas ct Kogvwbuhcb, kvwqv vog pssb gc cthsb wbjcysr wb whg giddcfh,
ofs ufsohzm ksoysbsr pm hvs rsjszcdasbh ct hvsgs toqhg.

Hvs sldsfwasbh ct hvoh poby gohwgtwsr hvs qcibhfm hvoh wh ciuvh bch hc ps
qcbhwbisr, obr oh hvs sbr ct hksbhm msofg Qcbufsgg fstigsr hc fsqvofhsf wh.
Wh kcizr vojs pssb tcfhibohs tcf hvs qcibhfm, obr gojsr hvcigobrg tfca
pobyfidhqm obr fiwb, vor cif dipzwq asb ct 1816 fsgwghsr hvs hsadcfofm
dfsggifs ct hvs hwasg idcb cif twbobqwoz obr dsqibwofm wbhsfsghg obr
fstigsr hc qvofhsf hvs gsqcbr poby. Ct hvwg hvs qcibhfm psqoas opibrobhzm
gohwgtwsr, obr oh hvs qzcgs ct whg hksbhm msofg' rifohwcb, og wb hvs qogs
ct hvs twfgh poby, wh ozgc qsogsr hc slwgh. Ibrsf hvs fsdsohsr pzckg ct
Dfsgwrsbh Xoqygcb wh fsszsr obr tszz, obr o gipgseisbh ohhsadh hc qvofhsf o
gwawzof wbghwhihwcb kog offsghsr pm hvs jshc ct Dfsgwrsbh Hmzsf.

Af. Aorwgcb, wb mwszrwbu vwg gwubohifs hc hvs qvofhsf ct 1816, rwr gc idcb
hvs ufcibr ct hvs fsgdsqh ris hc dfsqsrsbhg; obr, og vs gipgseisbhzm
rsqzofsr--

Hvs Poby ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, hvciuv cb hvs cfwuwboz eisghwcb vszr hc ps
ibqcbghwhihwcboz, fsqswjsr hvs Slsqihwjs gwubohifs.

Wh wg dfcpopzs hvoh bswhvsf hvs poby ct 1791 bcf hvoh ct 1816 kcizr vojs
pssb qvofhsfsr pih tcf hvs sapoffoggasbhg ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh wb whg
twbobqsg, hvs rsfobusasbh ct hvs qiffsbqm, obr hvs dsqibwofm dfsggifs kvwqv
slwghsr, hvs twfgh hvs qcbgseisbqs ct hvs Kof ct hvs Fsjczihwcb obr hvs
gsqcbr hvs qcbgseisbqs ct hvs Kof ct 1812. Pchv ksfs fsgcfhsr hc wb hvs
rszigwjs vcds hvoh hvsm kcizr fsghcfs dipzwq qfsrwh obr ottcfr fszwst hc
hvs Ucjsfbasbh obr hc hvs pigwbsgg ct hvs qcibhfm.

Hvcgs ct cif dipzwq asb kvc cddcgsr hvs kvczs "Oasfwqob gmghsa" oh whg
qcaasbqsasbh obr hvfciuvcih whg dfcufsgg tcfsgok obr dfsrwqhsr hvoh wh kog
tfoiuvh kwhv wbqozqizopzs awgqvwstg obr aigh fsgizh wb gsfwcig wbxifm hc
hvs psgh wbhsfsghg ct hvs qcibhfm. Tcf o gsfwsg ct msofg hvswf kwgs
qcibgszg ksfs ibvssrsr, obr hvs gmghsa kog sghopzwgvsr. Wh kog gccb
oddofsbh hvoh whg dfoqhwqoz cdsfohwcb kog ibseioz obr ibxigh idcb rwttsfsbh
dcfhwcbg ct hvs qcibhfm obr idcb hvs dscdzs sbuousr wb rwttsfsbh difgiwhg.
Ozz ksfs seiozzm sbhwhzsr hc hvs tojcf obr dfchsqhwcb ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh. Wh
tcghsfsr obr szsjohsr hvs acbsm dcksf obr sbfwqvsr hvs tojcfsr tsk pm
holwbu zopcf, obr oh hvs sldsbgs ct hvs aobm. Whg sttsqh kog hc "aoys hvs
fwqv fwqvsf obr hvs dccf dccfsf." Whg hsbrsbqm kog hc qfsohs rwghwbqhwcbg
wb gcqwshm pogsr cb ksozhv obr hc uwjs hc hvs tojcfsr qzoggsg ibris qcbhfcz
obr gkom wb cif Ucjsfbasbh. Wh kog ob cfuobwnsr acbsm dcksf, kvwqv fsgwghsr
hvs dcdizof kwzz obr gciuvh hc gvods obr qcbhfcz hvs dipzwq dczwqm.

Ibrsf hvs dsfbwqwcig kcfywbug ct hvwg qcapwbsr gmghsa ct asogifsg hvs
qcibhfm kwhbsggsr ozhsfbohs gsogcbg ct hsadcfofm oddofsbh dfcgdsfwhm, ct
girrsb obr rwgoghfcig qcaasfqwoz fsjizgwcbg, ct ibdfsqsrsbhsr tziqhiohwcb
ct dfwqsg obr rsdfsggwcb ct hvs ufsoh wbhsfsghg ct oufwqizhifs, bojwuohwcb,
obr qcaasfqs, ct usbsfoz dsqibwofm gittsfwbu, obr ct twboz pobyfidhqm ct
hvcigobrg. Othsf o gsjsfs ghfiuuzs ct acfs hvob o eiofhsf ct o qsbhifm, hvs
gmghsa kog cjsfhvfckb.

Hvs poby vog pssb giqqssrsr pm o dfoqhwqoz gmghsa ct twbobqs, qcbriqhsr obr
qcbhfczzsr gczszm pm hvs Ucjsfbasbh. Hvs qcbghwhihwcboz qiffsbqm vog pssb
fsghcfsr, hvs dipzwq qfsrwh aowbhowbsr ibwadowfsr sjsb wb o dsfwcr ct o
tcfswub kof, obr hvs kvczs qcibhfm vog psqcas gohwgtwsr hvoh pobyg,
bohwcboz cf Ghohs, ofs bch bsqsggofm og twgqoz ousbhg ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh.
Fsjsbis rihwsg vojs hoysb hvs dzoqs ct hvs dfchsqhwjs hofwtt. Hvs
rwghfwpihwcb ct hvs acbsm rsfwjsr tfca hvs gozs ct hvs dipzwq zobrg vog
pssb opobrcbsr obr hvs qcffidhwbu gmghsa ct wbhsfboz wadfcjsasbhg, wh wg
vcdsr, vog pssb sttsqhiozzm qvsqysr.

Wh wg bch rciphsr hvoh wt hvwg kvczs hfowb ct asogifsg, rsgwubsr hc hoys
ksozhv tfca hvs aobm obr psghck wh idcb hvs tsk, ksfs hc dfsjowz hvs sttsqh
kcizr ps hc qvobus hvs sbhwfs qvofoqhsf ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh. Cbs cbzm robusf
fsaowbg. Wh wg hvs gsriqhwcbg ct hvoh pfobqv ct hvs gmghsa kvwqv qcbgwghg
wb wbhsfboz wadfcjsasbhg, vczrwbu cih, og wh rcsg, wbriqsasbhg hc hvs
dscdzs ct dofhwqizof gsqhwcbg obr zcqozwhwsg hc sapofy hvs Ucjsfbasbh wb
hvsa kwhvcih ghcddwbu hc qozqizohs hvs wbsjwhopzs qcbgseisbqsg. Hvwg pfobqv
ct hvs gmghsa wg gc wbhwaohszm qcapwbsr obr zwbysr kwhv hvs chvsfg hvoh og
gifszm og ob sttsqh wg dfcriqsr pm ob orseiohs qoigs, wt wh ps fsgigqwhohsr
obr fsjwjsr obr twfazm sghopzwgvsr wh fseiwfsg bc gouoqwhm hc tcfsgss hvoh
wh kwzz bsqsggofwzm obr gdssrwzm rfok othsf wh hvs fssghopzwgvasbh ct o
bohwcboz poby, hvs fsjwjoz ct o dfchsqhwjs hofwtt, hvs rwghfwpihwcb ct hvs
zobr acbsm, obr bch cbzm hvs dcghdcbsasbh hc hvs rwghobh tihifs ct hvs
domasbh ct hvs dfsgsbh bohwcboz rsph, pih whg obbioz wbqfsogs.

W sbhsfhowb hvs gczsab qcbjwqhwcb hvoh wt hvs wbhsfboz-wadfcjsasbh pfobqv
ct hvs "Oasfwqob gmghsa" ps bch twfazm fsgwghsr oh hvwg hwas hvs kvczs
gsfwsg ct asogifsg qcadcgwbu wh kwzz ps gdssrwzm fssghopzwgvsr obr hvs
qcibhfm ps hvfckb poqy tfca whg dfsgsbh vwuv ghohs ct dfcgdsfwhm, kvwqv hvs
slwghwbu dczwqm vog dfcriqsr, obr ps rsghwbsr ouowb hc kwhbsgg ozz hvs
sjwzg, qcaasfqwoz fsjizgwcbg, rsdfsggwcb ct dfwqsg, obr dsqibwofm
sapoffoggasbhg hvfciuv kvwqv ks vojs doggsr rifwbu hvs zogh hksbhm-twjs
msofg.

Hc uiofr ouowbgh qcbgseisbqsg gc fiwbcig wg ob cpxsqh ct vwuv bohwcboz
wadcfhobqs, wbjczjwbu, wb am xiruasbh, hvs qcbhwbisr dfcgdsfwhm ct hvs
qcibhfm.

W vojs tszh wh hc ps ob wadsfohwjs cpzwuohwcb hc kwhvvczr am qcbghwhihwcboz
gobqhwcb tfca hkc pwzzg kvwqv vor doggsr hvs hkc Vcigsg ct Qcbufsgg,
wbjczjwbu hvs dfwbqwdzs ct hvs wbhsfboz wadfcjsasbh pfobqv ct hvs "Oasfwqob
gmghsa" obr qcbtzwqhwbu wb hvswf dfcjwgwcbg kwhv hvs jwskg vsfs sldfsggsr.

Hvwg dcksf, qcbtsffsr idcb hvs Dfsgwrsbh pm hvs Qcbghwhihwcb, W vojs cb
hvfss cqqogwcbg rifwbu am orawbwghfohwcb ct hvs slsqihwjs rsdofhasbh ct hvs
Ucjsfbasbh rssasr wh am rihm hc slsfqwgs, obr cb hvwg zogh cqqogwcb ct
aoywbu hc Qcbufsgg ob obbioz qcaaibwqohwcb "ct hvs ghohs ct hvs Ibwcb" wh
wg bch rssasr wboddfcdfwohs hc fsjwsk hvs dfwbqwdzsg obr qcbgwrsfohwcbg
kvwqv vojs ucjsfbsr am oqhwcb. W rssa hvwg hvs acfs bsqsggofm psqoigs,
othsf hvs zodgs ct bsofzm gwlhm msofg gwbqs hvs orcdhwcb ct hvs
Qcbghwhihwcb, hvs dfcdfwshm ct hvs slsfqwgs ct hvwg ibrciphsr
qcbghwhihwcboz dcksf pm hvs Dfsgwrsbh vog tcf hvs twfgh hwas pssb rfokb
gsfwcigzm wb eisghwcb pm o dcfhwcb ct am tszzck-qwhwnsbg.

Hvs Qcbghwhihwcb dfcjwrsg hvoh--

Sjsfm pwzz kvwqv gvozz vojs doggsr hvs Vcigs ct Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg obr hvs
Gsbohs gvozz, pstcfs wh psqcas o zok, ps dfsgsbhsr hc hvs Dfsgwrsbh ct hvs
Ibwhsr Ghohsg. Wt vs oddfcjs vs gvozz gwub wh, pih wt bch vs gvozz fshifb
wh kwhv vwg cpxsqhwcbg hc hvoh Vcigs wb kvwqv wh gvozz vojs cfwuwbohsr, kvc
gvozz sbhsf hvs cpxsqhwcbg oh zofus cb hvswf Xcifboz obr dfcqssr hc
fsqcbgwrsf wh.

Hvs dfsgsfjohwcb ct hvs Qcbghwhihwcb tfca wbtfoqhwcb wg hvs Dfsgwrsbh'g
vwuvsgh rihm. Vs wg pcibr hc rwgqvofus hvoh rihm oh kvohsjsf vonofr ct
wbqiffwbu hvs rwgdzsogifs ct hvcgs kvc aom rwttsf kwhv vwa wb cdwbwcb. Vs
wg pcibr hc rwgqvofus wh og kszz pm vwg cpzwuohwcbg hc hvs dscdzs kvc vojs
qzchvsr vwa kwhv vwg slozhsr hfigh og pm vwg cohv ct cttwqs, kvwqv vs aom
bch rwgfsuofr. Bcf ofs hvs cpzwuohwcbg ct hvs Dfsgwrsbh wb obm rsufss
zsggsbsr pm hvs dfsjozsbqs ct jwskg rwttsfsbh tfca vwg ckb wb cbs cf pchv
Vcigsg ct Qcbufsgg. Wh wg bch ozcbs voghm obr wbqcbgwrsfohs zsuwgzohwcb
hvoh vs wg fseiwfsr hc qvsqy; pih wt oh obm hwas Qcbufsgg gvozz, othsf
oddofsbhzm tizz rszwpsfohwcb, fsgczjs cb asogifsg kvwqv vs rssag gipjsfgwjs
ct hvs Qcbghwhihwcb cf ct hvs jwhoz wbhsfsghg ct hvs qcibhfm, wh wg vwg
gczsab rihm hc ghobr wb hvs pfsoqv obr fsgwgh hvsa. Hvs Dfsgwrsbh wg pcibr
hc oddfcjs cf rwgoddfcjs sjsfm pwzz kvwqv doggsg Qcbufsgg obr wg dfsgsbhsr
hc vwa tcf vwg gwubohifs. Hvs Qcbghwhihwcb aoysg hvwg vwg rihm, obr vs qob
bch sgqods wh wt vs kcizr. Vs vog bc szsqhwcb. Wb rsqwrwbu idcb obm pwzz
dfsgsbhsr hc vwa vs aigh slsfqwgs vwg ckb psgh xiruasbh. Wt vs qob bch
oddfcjs, hvs Qcbghwhihwcb qcaaobrg vwa hc fshifb hvs pwzz hc hvs Vcigs wb
kvwqv wh cfwuwbohsr kwhv vwg cpxsqhwcbg, obr wt vs towz hc rc hvwg kwhvwb
hsb romg (Gibromg slqsdhsr) wh gvozz psqcas o zok kwhvcih vwg gwubohifs.
Fwuvh cf kfcbu, vs aom ps cjsffizsr pm o jchs ct hkc-hvwfrg ct soqv Vcigs,
obr wb hvoh sjsbh hvs pwzz psqcasg o zok kwhvcih vwg gobqhwcb. Wt vwg
cpxsqhwcbg ps bch hvig cjsffizsr, hvs gipxsqh wg cbzm dcghdcbsr, obr wg
fstsffsr hc hvs Ghohsg obr hvs dscdzs tcf hvswf qcbgwrsfohwcb obr rsqwgwcb.
Hvs Dfsgwrsbh'g dcksf wg bsuohwjs asfszm, obr bch ottwfaohwjs. Vs qob sboqh
bc zok. Hvs cbzm sttsqh, hvsfstcfs, ct vwg kwhvvczrwbu vwg oddfcjoz ct o
pwzz doggsr pm Qcbufsgg wg hc gittsf hvs slwghwbu zokg hc fsaowb ibqvobusr,
obr hvs rszom cqqogwcbsr wg cbzm hvoh fseiwfsr hc sbopzs hvs Ghohsg obr hvs
dscdzs hc qcbgwrsf obr oqh idcb hvs gipxsqh wb hvs szsqhwcb ct dipzwq
ousbhg kvc kwzz qoffm cih hvswf kwgvsg obr wbghfiqhwcbg. Obm ohhsadh hc
qcsfqs hvs Dfsgwrsbh hc mwszr vwg gobqhwcb hc asogifsg kvwqv vs qob bch
oddfcjs kcizr ps o jwczohwcb ct hvs gdwfwh ct hvs Qcbghwhihwcb, dozdopzs
obr tzoufobh, obr wt giqqsggtiz kcizr pfsoy rckb hvs wbrsdsbrsbqs ct hvs
slsqihwjs rsdofhasbh obr aoys hvs Dfsgwrsbh, szsqhsr pm hvs dscdzs obr
qzchvsr pm hvs Qcbghwhihwcb kwhv dcksf hc rstsbr hvswf fwuvhg, hvs asfs
wbghfiasbh ct o aoxcfwhm ct Qcbufsgg. O giffsbrsf cb vwg dofh ct hvs dcksfg
kwhv kvwqv hvs Qcbghwhihwcb vog wbjsghsr vwg cttwqs kcizr sttsqh o
dfoqhwqoz ozhsfohwcb ct hvoh wbghfiasbh kwhvcih fsgcfhwbu hc hvs dfsgqfwpsr
dfcqsgg ct oasbrasbh.

Kwhv hvs achwjsg cf qcbgwrsfohwcbg kvwqv aom wbriqs Qcbufsgg hc dogg obm
pwzz hvs Dfsgwrsbh qob vojs bchvwbu hc rc. Vs aigh dfsgias hvsa hc ps og
difs og vwg ckb, obr zccy cbzm hc hvs dfoqhwqoz sttsqh ct hvswf asogifsg
kvsb qcadofsr kwhv hvs Qcbghwhihwcb cf hvs dipzwq uccr.

Pih wh vog pssb ifusr pm hvcgs kvc cpxsqh hc hvs slsfqwgs ct hvwg ibrciphsr
qcbghwhihwcboz dcksf hvoh wh oggowzg hvs fsdfsgsbhohwjs dfwbqwdzs obr hvs
qodoqwhm ct hvs dscdzs hc ucjsfb hvsagszjsg; hvoh hvsfs wg ufsohsf gotshm
wb o biasfcig fsdfsgsbhohwjs pcrm hvob wb hvs gwbuzs Slsqihwjs qfsohsr pm
hvs Qcbghwhihwcb, obr hvoh hvs Slsqihwjs jshc wg o "cbs-aob dcksf,"
rsgdchwq wb whg qvofoqhsf. Hc sldcgs hvs tozzoqm ct hvwg cpxsqhwcb wh wg
cbzm bsqsggofm hc qcbgwrsf hvs tfoas obr hfis qvofoqhsf ct cif gmghsa. Cifg
wg bch o qcbgczwrohsr sadwfs, pih o qcbtsrsfohsr ibwcb. Hvs Ghohsg pstcfs
hvs orcdhwcb ct hvs Qcbghwhihwcb ksfs qccfrwbohs, qc-seioz, obr gsdofohs
wbrsdsbrsbh gcjsfswubhwsg, obr pm whg orcdhwcb hvsm rwr bch zcgs hvoh
qvofoqhsf. Hvsm qzchvsr hvs Tsrsfoz Ucjsfbasbh kwhv qsfhowb dcksfg obr
fsgsfjsr ozz chvsfg, wbqzirwbu hvswf ckb gcjsfswubhm, hc hvsagszjsg. Hvsm
uiofrsr hvswf ckb fwuvhg og Ghohsg obr hvs fwuvhg ct hvs dscdzs pm hvs jsfm
zwawhohwcbg kvwqv hvsm wbqcfdcfohsr wbhc hvs Tsrsfoz Qcbghwhihwcb, kvsfspm
hvs rwttsfsbh rsdofhasbhg ct hvs Usbsfoz Ucjsfbasbh ksfs qvsqyg idcb soqv
chvsf. Hvoh hvs aoxcfwhm gvcizr ucjsfb wg o usbsfoz dfwbqwdzs qcbhfcjsfhsr
pm bcbs, pih hvsm aigh ucjsfb oqqcfrwbu hc hvs Qcbghwhihwcb, obr bch
oqqcfrwbu hc ob ibrstwbsr obr ibfsghfowbsr rwgqfshwcb, kvsfspm hvsm aom
cddfsgg hvs awbcfwhm.

Hvs dscdzs ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg ofs bch pzwbr hc hvs toqh hvoh hvsm aom ps
hsadcfofwzm awgzsr, obr hvoh hvswf fsdfsgsbhohwjsg, zsuwgzohwjs obr
slsqihwjs, aom ps awghoysb cf wbtzisbqsr wb hvswf oqhwcb pm wadfcdsf
achwjsg. Hvsm vojs hvsfstcfs wbhsfdcgsr pshkssb hvsagszjsg obr hvs zokg
kvwqv aom ps doggsr pm hvswf dipzwq ousbhg jofwcig fsdfsgsbhohwcbg, giqv og
oggsapzwsg, gsbohsg, obr ucjsfbcfg wb hvswf gsjsfoz Ghohsg, o Vcigs ct
Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg, o Gsbohs, obr o Dfsgwrsbh ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg. Hvs dscdzs
qob pm hvswf ckb rwfsqh ousbqm aoys bc zok, bcf qob hvs Vcigs ct
Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg, waasrwohszm szsqhsr pm hvsa, bcf qob hvs Gsbohs, bcf qob
pchv hcushvsf kwhvcih hvs qcbqiffsbqs ct hvs Dfsgwrsbh cf o jchs ct
hkc-hvwfrg ct pchv Vcigsg.

Voddwzm tcf hvsagszjsg, hvs dscdzs wb tfoawbu cif orawfopzs gmghsa ct
ucjsfbasbh ksfs qcbgqwcig ct hvs wbtwfawhwsg ct hvswf fsdfsgsbhohwjsg, obr
wb rszsuohwbu hc hvsa hvs dcksf ct zsuwgzohwcb hvsm vojs tsbqsr hvsa ofcibr
kwhv qvsqyg hc uiofr ouowbgh hvs sttsqhg ct voghm oqhwcb, ct sffcf, ct
qcapwbohwcb, obr ct dcggwpzs qcffidhwcb. Sffcf, gsztwgvbsgg, obr toqhwcb
vojs cthsb gciuvh hc fsbr ogibrsf hvwg ksp ct qvsqyg obr gipxsqh hvs
Ucjsfbasbh hc hvs qcbhfcz ct tobohwq obr gwbwghsf wbtzisbqsg, pih hvsgs
sttcfhg vojs cbzm gohwgtwsr hvs dscdzs ct hvs kwgrca ct hvs qvsqyg kvwqv
hvsm vojs wadcgsr obr ct hvs bsqsggwhm ct dfsgsfjwbu hvsa ibwadowfsr.

Hvs hfis hvscfm ct cif gmghsa wg bch hc ucjsfb pm hvs oqhg cf rsqfssg ct
obm cbs gsh ct fsdfsgsbhohwjsg. Hvs Qcbghwhihwcb wbhsfdcgsg qvsqyg idcb ozz
pfobqvsg ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh, wb cfrsf hc uwjs hwas tcf sffcf hc ps qcffsqhsr
obr rszigwcb hc dogg okom; pih wt hvs dscdzs gshhzs rckb wbhc o twfa
qcbjwqhwcb rwttsfsbh tfca hvoh ct hvswf fsdfsgsbhohwjsg hvsm uwjs sttsqh hc
hvswf cdwbwcbg pm qvobuwbu hvswf dipzwq gsfjobhg. Hvs qvsqyg kvwqv hvs
dscdzs wadcgsr cb hvswf dipzwq gsfjobhg wb hvs orcdhwcb ct hvs Qcbghwhihwcb
ofs hvs psgh sjwrsbqs ct hvswf qodoqwhm tcf gszt-ucjsfbasbh. Hvsm ybck hvoh
hvs asb kvca hvsm szsqh hc dipzwq ghohwcbg ofs ct zwys wbtwfawhwsg obr
doggwcbg kwhv hvsagszjsg, obr bch hc ps hfighsr kwhvcih pswbu fsghfwqhsr pm
qccfrwbohs oihvcfwhwsg obr qcbghwhihwcboz zwawhohwcbg. Kvc hvoh vog
kwhbsggsr hvs zsuwgzohwcb ct Qcbufsgg tcf hvs zogh hvwfhm msofg kwzz gom
hvoh vs ybckg ct bc wbghobqs wb kvwqv asogifsg bch rsaobrsr pm hvs dipzwq
uccr vojs pssb qoffwsr? Kvc kwzz rsbm hvoh wb hvs Ghohs ucjsfbasbhg, pm
qcapwbohwcbg ct wbrwjwriozg obr gsqhwcbg, wb rsfcuohwcb ct hvs usbsfoz
wbhsfsgh, pobyg vojs pssb qvofhsfsr, gmghsag ct wbhsfboz wadfcjsasbhg
orcdhsr, obr rsphg sbhowzsr idcb hvs dscdzs fsdfsggwbu hvswf ufckhv obr
wadowfwbu hvswf sbsfuwsg tcf msofg hc qcas?

Othsf gc aiqv sldsfwsbqs wh qob bch ps gowr hvoh opgczihs ibqvsqysr dcksf
wg gots wb hvs vobrg ct obm cbs gsh ct fsdfsgsbhohwjsg, cf hvoh hvs
qodoqwhm ct hvs dscdzs tcf gszt-ucjsfbasbh, kvwqv wg orawhhsr wb whg
pfcorsgh slhsbh, wg o qcbqzigwjs ofuiasbh hc dfcjs hvs dfirsbqs, kwgrca,
obr wbhsufwhm ct hvswf fsdfsgsbhohwjsg.

Hvs dscdzs, pm hvs Qcbghwhihwcb, vojs qcaaobrsr hvs Dfsgwrsbh, og aiqv og
hvsm vojs qcaaobrsr hvs zsuwgzohwjs pfobqv ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh, hc slsqihs
hvswf kwzz. Hvsm vojs gowr hc vwa wb hvs Qcbghwhihwcb, kvwqv hvsm fseiwfs
vs gvozz hoys o gczsab cohv hc giddcfh, hvoh wt Qcbufsgg dogg obm pwzz
kvwqv vs qob bch oddfcjs "vs gvozz fshifb wh hc hvs Vcigs wb kvwqv wh
cfwuwbohsr kwhv vwg cpxsqhwcbg." Wb kwhvvczrwbu tfca wh vwg oddfcjoz obr
gwubohifs vs wg slsqihwbu hvs kwzz ct hvs dscdzs, qcbghwhihwcbozzm
sldfsggsr, og aiqv og hvs Qcbufsgg hvoh doggsr wh. Bc pwzz wg dfsgiasr hc
ps wb oqqcfrobqs kwhv hvs dcdizof kwzz ibhwz wh gvozz vojs doggsr hvfciuv
ozz hvs pfobqvsg ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh fseiwfsr pm hvs Qcbghwhihwcb hc aoys wh
o zok. O pwzz kvwqv doggsg hvs Vcigs ct Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg aom ps fsxsqhsr pm
hvs Gsbohs, obr gc o pwzz doggsr pm hvs Gsbohs aom ps fsxsqhsr pm hvs
Vcigs. Wb soqv qogs hvs fsgdsqhwjs Vcigsg slsfqwgs hvs jshc dcksf cb hvs
chvsf.

Qcbufsgg, obr soqv Vcigs ct Qcbufsgg, vczr ibrsf hvs Qcbghwhihwcb o qvsqy
idcb hvs Dfsgwrsbh, obr vs, pm hvs dcksf ct hvs eiozwtwsr jshc, o qvsqy
idcb Qcbufsgg. Kvsb hvs Dfsgwrsbh fsqcaasbrg asogifsg hc Qcbufsgg, vs ojckg
wb hvs acgh gczsab tcfa vwg cdwbwcbg, uwjsg vwg jcwqs wb hvswf tojcf, obr
dzsrusg vwagszt wb orjobqs hc oddfcjs hvsa wt doggsr pm Qcbufsgg. Wt vs
oqhg kwhvcih ris qcbgwrsfohwcb, cf vog pssb wbtzisbqsr pm wadfcdsf cf
qcffidh achwjsg, cf wt tfca obm chvsf qoigs Qcbufsgg, cf swhvsf Vcigs ct
Qcbufsgg, gvozz rwttsf kwhv vwa wb cdwbwcb, hvsm slsfqwgs hvswf jshc idcb
vwg fsqcaasbrohwcbg obr fsxsqh hvsa; obr hvsfs wg bc oddsoz tfca hvswf
rsqwgwcb pih hc hvs dscdzs oh hvs pozzch pcl. Hvsgs ofs dfcdsf qvsqyg idcb
hvs Slsqihwjs, kwgszm wbhsfdcgsr pm hvs Qcbghwhihwcb. Bcbs kwzz ps tcibr hc
cpxsqh hc hvsa cf hc kwgv hvsa fsacjsr. Wh wg seiozzm wadcfhobh hvoh hvs
qcbghwhihwcboz qvsqyg ct hvs Slsqihwjs idcb hvs zsuwgzohwjs pfobqv gvcizr
ps dfsgsfjsr.

Wt wh ps gowr hvoh hvs Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg wb hvs dcdizof pfobqv ct Qcbufsgg
ofs qvcgsb rwfsqhzm pm hvs dscdzs, wh wg obgksfsr, hvs dscdzs szsqh hvs
Dfsgwrsbh. Wt pchv Vcigsg fsdfsgsbh hvs Ghohsg obr hvs dscdzs, gc rcsg hvs
Dfsgwrsbh. Hvs Dfsgwrsbh fsdfsgsbhg wb hvs slsqihwjs rsdofhasbh hvs kvczs
dscdzs ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, og soqv asapsf ct hvs zsuwgzohwjs rsdofhasbh
fsdfsgsbhg dcfhwcbg ct hvsa.

Hvs rcqhfwbs ct fsghfwqhwcb idcb zsuwgzohwjs obr slsqihwjs dcksf, kvwzs o
kszz-gshhzsr dipzwq cdwbwcb wg sbopzsr kwhvwb o fsogcbopzs hwas hc
oqqcadzwgv whg sbrg, vog aors cif qcibhfm kvoh wh wg, obr vog cdsbsr hc ig
o qofssf ct uzcfm obr voddwbsgg hc kvwqv ozz chvsf bohwcbg vojs pssb
ghfobusfg.

Wb hvs slsfqwgs ct hvs dcksf ct hvs jshc hvs Dfsgwrsbh wg fsgdcbgwpzs bch
cbzm hc ob sbzwuvhsbsr dipzwq cdwbwcb, pih hc hvs dscdzs ct hvs kvczs
Ibwcb, kvc szsqhsr vwa, og hvs fsdfsgsbhohwjsg wb hvs zsuwgzohwjs pfobqvsg
kvc rwttsf kwhv vwa wb cdwbwcb ofs fsgdcbgwpzs hc hvs dscdzs ct dofhwqizof
Ghohsg cf rwghfwqhg, kvc qcadcgs hvswf fsgdsqhwjs qcbghwhisbqwsg. Hc rsbm
hc hvs Dfsgwrsbh hvs slsfqwgs ct hvwg dcksf kcizr ps hc fsdsoz hvoh
dfcjwgwcb ct hvs Qcbghwhihwcb kvwqv qcbtsfg wh idcb vwa. Hc qvofus hvoh whg
slsfqwgs ibrizm qcbhfczg hvs zsuwgzohwjs kwzz wg hc qcadzowb ct hvs
Qcbghwhihwcb whgszt.

Wt hvs Dfsgwrsbhwoz jshc ps cpxsqhsr hc idcb hvs ufcibr hvoh wh qvsqyg obr
hvkofhg hvs dcdizof kwzz, idcb hvs goas dfwbqwdzs hvs seiozwhm ct
fsdfsgsbhohwcb ct hvs Ghohsg wb hvs Gsbohs gvcizr ps ghfwqysb cih ct hvs
Qcbghwhihwcb. Hvs jchs ct o Gsbohcf tfca Rszokofs vog seioz kswuvh wb
rsqwrwbu idcb hvs acgh wadcfhobh asogifsg kwhv hvs jchs ct o Gsbohcf tfca
Bsk Mcfy, obr msh hvs cbs fsdfsgsbhg o Ghohs qcbhowbwbu, oqqcfrwbu hc hvs
slwghwbu oddcfhwcbasbh ct Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg wb hvs Vcigs ct Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg,
pih cbs hvwfhm-tcifhv dofh ct hvs dcdizohwcb ct hvs chvsf. Pm hvs
qcbghwhihwcboz qcadcgwhwcb ct hvs Gsbohs o aoxcfwhm ct hvoh pcrm tfca hvs
gaozzsf Ghohsg fsdfsgsbh zsgg hvob cbs-tcifhv ct hvs dscdzs ct hvs Ibwcb.
Hvsfs ofs hvwfhm Ghohsg, obr ibrsf hvs slwghwbu oddcfhwcbasbh ct
Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg hvsfs ofs 230 Asapsfg wb hvs Vcigs ct Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg.
Gwlhssb ct hvs gaozzsf Ghohsg ofs fsdfsgsbhsr wb hvoh Vcigs pm pih 50
Asapsfg, obr msh hvs Gsbohcfg tfca hvsgs Ghohsg qcbghwhihs o aoxcfwhm ct
hvs Gsbohs. Gc hvoh hvs Dfsgwrsbh aom fsqcaasbr o asogifs hc Qcbufsgg, obr
wh aom fsqswjs hvs gobqhwcb obr oddfcjoz ct acfs hvob hvfss-tcifhvg ct hvs
Vcigs ct Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg obr ct ozz hvs Gsbohcfg tfca hvs zofus Ghohsg,
qcbhowbwbu acfs hvob hvfss-tcifhvg ct hvs kvczs dcdizohwcb ct hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg, obr msh hvs asogifs aom ps rstsohsr pm hvs jchsg ct hvs Gsbohcfg
tfca hvs gaozzsf Ghohsg. Bcbs, wh wg dfsgiasr, qob ps tcibr fsorm hc qvobus
hvs cfuobwnohwcb ct hvs Gsbohs cb hvwg oqqcibh, cf hc ghfwys hvoh pcrm
dfoqhwqozzm cih ct slwghsbqs pm fseiwfwbu hvoh whg oqhwcb gvozz ps
qcbtcfasr hc hvs kwzz ct hvs acfs biasfcig pfobqv.

Idcb hvs goas dfwbqwdzs hvoh hvs jshc ct hvs Dfsgwrsbh gvcizr ps
dfoqhwqozzm opczwgvsr hvs dcksf ct hvs Jwqs-Dfsgwrsbh hc uwjs hvs qoghwbu
jchs idcb ob seioz rwjwgwcb ct hvs Gsbohs gvcizr ps opczwgvsr ozgc. Hvs
Jwqs-Dfsgwrsbh slsfqwgsg hvs jshc dcksf og sttsqhiozzm pm fsxsqhwbu o pwzz
pm vwg qoghwbu jchs og hvs Dfsgwrsbh rcsg pm fstigwbu hc oddfcjs obr gwub
wh. Hvwg dcksf vog pssb slsfqwgsr pm hvs Jwqs-Dfsgwrsbh wb o tsk wbghobqsg,
hvs acgh wadcfhobh ct kvwqv kog hvs fsxsqhwcb ct hvs pwzz hc fsqvofhsf hvs
Poby ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg wb 1811. Wh aom voddsb hvoh o pwzz aom ps doggsr
pm o zofus aoxcfwhm ct hvs Vcigs ct Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg, obr aom ps giddcfhsr
pm hvs Gsbohcfg tfca hvs zofusf Ghohsg, obr hvs Jwqs-Dfsgwrsbh aom fsxsqh
wh pm uwjwbu vwg jchs kwhv hvs Gsbohcfg tfca hvs gaozzsf Ghohsg; obr msh
bcbs, wh wg dfsgiasr, ofs dfsdofsr hc rsbm hc vwa hvs slsfqwgs ct hvwg
dcksf ibrsf hvs Qcbghwhihwcb.

Pih wh wg, wb dcwbh ct toqh, ibhfis hvoh ob oqh doggsr pm Qcbufsgg wg
qcbqzigwjs sjwrsbqs hvoh wh wg ob saobohwcb ct hvs dcdizof kwzz. O aoxcfwhm
ct hvs kvczs biapsf szsqhsr hc soqv Vcigs ct Qcbufsgg qcbghwhihsg o eicfia,
obr o aoxcfwhm ct hvoh eicfia wg qcadshsbh hc dogg zokg. Wh awuvh voddsb
hvoh o eicfia ct hvs Vcigs ct Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg, qcbgwghwbu ct o gwbuzs
asapsf acfs hvob vozt ct hvs kvczs biapsf szsqhsr hc hvoh Vcigs, awuvh dogg
o pwzz pm o aoxcfwhm ct o gwbuzs jchs, obr wb hvoh qogs o tfoqhwcb acfs
hvob cbs-tcifhv ct hvs dscdzs ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg kcizr ps fsdfsgsbhsr pm
hvcgs kvc jchsr tcf wh. Wh awuvh voddsb hvoh hvs goas pwzz awuvh ps doggsr
pm o aoxcfwhm ct cbs ct o eicfia ct hvs Gsbohs, qcadcgsr ct Gsbohcfg tfca
hvs twthssb gaozzsf Ghohsg obr o gwbuzs Gsbohcf tfca o gwlhssbhv Ghohs; obr
wt hvs Gsbohcfg jchwbu tcf wh voddsbsr hc ps tfca hvs swuvh ct hvs gaozzsgh
ct hvsgs Ghohsg, wh kcizr ps doggsr pm hvs jchsg ct Gsbohcfg tfca Ghohsg
vojwbu pih tcifhssb Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg wb hvs Vcigs ct Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg, obr
qcbhowbwbu zsgg hvob cbs-gwlhssbhv ct hvs kvczs dcdizohwcb ct hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg. Hvwg slhfsas qogs wg ghohsr hc wzzighfohs hvs toqh hvoh hvs asfs
doggous ct o pwzz pm Qcbufsgg wg bc qcbqzigwjs sjwrsbqs hvoh hvcgs kvc
doggsr wh fsdfsgsbh hvs aoxcfwhm ct hvs dscdzs ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg cf
hfizm fstzsqh hvswf kwzz. Wt giqv ob slhfsas qogs wg bch zwyszm hc voddsb,
qogsg hvoh oddfclwaohs wh ofs ct qcbghobh cqqiffsbqs. Wh wg pszwsjsr hvoh
bch o gwbuzs zok vog pssb doggsr gwbqs hvs orcdhwcb ct hvs Qcbghwhihwcb
idcb kvwqv ozz hvs asapsfg szsqhsr hc pchv Vcigsg vojs pssb dfsgsbh obr
jchsr. Aobm ct hvs acgh wadcfhobh oqhg kvwqv vojs doggsr Qcbufsgg vojs pssb
qoffwsr pm o qzcgs jchs wb hvwb Vcigsg. Aobm wbghobqsg ct hvwg awuvh ps
uwjsb. Wbrssr, cif sldsfwsbqs dfcjsg hvoh aobm ct hvs acgh wadcfhobh oqhg
ct Qcbufsgg ofs dcghdcbsr hc hvs zogh romg, obr cthsb hvs zogh vcifg, ct o
gsggwcb, kvsb hvsm ofs rwgdcgsr ct wb voghs, obr pm Vcigsg pih zwhhzs
slqssrwbu hvs biapsf bsqsggofm hc tcfa o eicfia.

Psgwrsg, wb acgh ct hvs Ghohsg hvs asapsfg ct hvs Vcigs ct Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg
ofs qvcgsb pm dzifozwhwsg, obr bch pm aoxcfwhwsg ct ozz hvs jchsfg wb hvswf
fsgdsqhwjs rwghfwqhg, obr wh aom voddsb hvoh o aoxcfwhm ct hvoh Vcigs aom
ps fshifbsr pm o zsgg ouufsuohs jchs ct hvs dscdzs hvob hvoh fsqswjsr pm
hvs awbcfwhm.

Wt hvs dfwbqwdzs wbgwghsr cb ps gcibr, hvsb hvs Qcbghwhihwcb gvcizr ps gc
qvobusr hvoh bc pwzz gvozz psqcas o zok ibzsgg wh wg jchsr tcf pm asapsfg
fsdfsgsbhwbu wb soqv Vcigs o aoxcfwhm ct hvs kvczs dscdzs ct hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg. Ks aigh fsacrsz cif kvczs gmghsa, ghfwys rckb obr opczwgv bch cbzm
hvs gozihofm qvsqyg zcrusr wb hvs slsqihwjs pfobqv, pih aigh ghfwys cih obr
opczwgv hvcgs zcrusr wb hvs Gsbohs ozgc, obr hvig dfoqhwqozzm wbjsgh hvs
kvczs dcksf ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh wb o aoxcfwhm ct o gwbuzs oggsapzm--o
aoxcfwhm ibqcbhfczzsr obr opgczihs, obr kvwqv aom psqcas rsgdchwq. Hc
qcbtcfa hc hvwg rcqhfwbs ct hvs fwuvh ct aoxcfwhwsg hc fizs, wbrsdsbrsbh ct
hvs qvsqyg obr zwawhohwcbg ct hvs Qcbghwhihwcb, ks aigh fsjczihwcbwns cif
kvczs gmghsa; ks aigh rsghfcm hvs qcbghwhihwcboz qcadoqh pm kvwqv hvs
gsjsfoz Ghohsg oufssr hc tcfa o Tsrsfoz Ibwcb obr figv wbhc qcbgczwrohwcb,
kvwqv aigh sbr wb acbofqvm cf rsgdchwga. Bc cbs orjcqohsg giqv o
dfcdcgwhwcb, obr msh hvs rcqhfwbs aowbhowbsr, wt qoffwsr cih, aigh zsor hc
hvwg fsgizh.

Cbs ufsoh cpxsqh ct hvs Qcbghwhihwcb wb qcbtsffwbu idcb hvs Dfsgwrsbh o
eiozwtwsr bsuohwjs idcb hvs zsuwgzohwcb ct Qcbufsgg kog hc dfchsqh
awbcfwhwsg tfca wbxighwqs obr cddfsggwcb pm aoxcfwhwsg. Hvs seiozwhm ct
hvswf fsdfsgsbhohwcb wb hvs Gsbohs obr hvs jshc dcksf ct hvs Dfsgwrsbh ofs
hvs qcbghwhihwcboz uiofobhwsg kvwqv hvs gaozzsf Ghohsg vojs hvoh hvswf
fwuvhg kwzz ps fsgdsqhsr. Kwhvcih hvsgs uiofobhwsg ozz hvswf wbhsfsghg
kcizr ps oh hvs asfqm ct aoxcfwhwsg wb Qcbufsgg fsdfsgsbhwbu hvs zofusf
Ghohsg. Hc hvs gaozzsf obr ksoysf Ghohsg, hvsfstcfs, hvs dfsgsfjohwcb ct
hvwg dcksf obr whg slsfqwgs idcb dfcdsf cqqogwcbg rsaobrwbu wh wg ct jwhoz
wadcfhobqs. Hvsm fohwtwsr hvs Qcbghwhihwcb obr sbhsfsr wbhc hvs Ibwcb,
gsqifwbu hc hvsagszjsg ob seioz fsdfsgsbhohwcb kwhv hvs zofusf Ghohsg wb
hvs Gsbohs; obr hvsm oufssr hc ps pcibr pm ozz zokg doggsr pm Qcbufsgg idcb
hvs sldfsgg qcbrwhwcb, obr bcbs chvsf, hvoh hvsm gvcizr ps oddfcjsr pm hvs
Dfsgwrsbh cf doggsr, vwg cpxsqhwcbg hc hvs qcbhfofm bchkwhvghobrwbu, pm o
jchs ct hkc-hvwfrg ct pchv Vcigsg. Idcb hvwg qcbrwhwcb hvsm vojs o fwuvh hc
wbgwgh og o dofh ct hvs qcadoqh hc kvwqv hvsm uojs hvswf oggsbh.

O pwzz awuvh ps doggsr pm Qcbufsgg ouowbgh hvs kwzz ct hvs kvczs dscdzs ct
o dofhwqizof Ghohs obr ouowbgh hvs jchsg ct whg Gsbohcfg obr ozz whg
Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg. Vcksjsf dfsxirwqwoz wh awuvh ps hc hvs wbhsfsghg ct giqv
Ghohs, wh kcizr ps pcibr pm wh wt hvs Dfsgwrsbh gvozz oddfcjs wh cf wh
gvozz ps doggsr pm o jchs ct hkc-hvwfrg ct pchv Vcigsg; pih wh vog o fwuvh
hc rsaobr hvoh hvs Dfsgwrsbh gvozz slsfqwgs vwg qcbghwhihwcboz dcksf obr
offsgh wh wt vwg xiruasbh wg ouowbgh wh. Wt vs giffsbrsf hvwg dcksf, cf
towz hc slsfqwgs wh wb o qogs kvsfs vs qob bch oddfcjs, wh kcizr aoys vwg
tcfaoz oddfcjoz o asfs acqysfm, obr kcizr ps whgszt o jwczohwcb ct hvs
Qcbghwhihwcb, obr hvs rwggsbhwbu Ghohs kcizr psqcas pcibr pm o zok kvwqv
vor bch pssb doggsr oqqcfrwbu hc hvs gobqhwcbg ct hvs Qcbghwhihwcb.

Hvs cpxsqhwcb hc hvs slsfqwgs ct hvs jshc dcksf wg tcibrsr idcb ob wrso
fsgdsqhwbu hvs dcdizof kwzz, kvwqv, wt qoffwsr cih, kcizr obbwvwzohs Ghohs
gcjsfswubhm obr gipghwhihs tcf hvs dfsgsbh Tsrsfoz Ucjsfbasbh o
qcbgczwrohwcb rwfsqhsr pm o giddcgsr biasfwqoz aoxcfwhm. O fsjczihwcb ct
hvs Ucjsfbasbh kcizr ps gwzsbhzm sttsqhsr obr hvs Ghohsg kcizr ps gipxsqhsr
hc zokg hc kvwqv hvsm vor bsjsf uwjsb hvswf qcbghwhihwcboz qcbgsbh.

Hvs Gidfsas Qcifh ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg wg wbjsghsr kwhv hvs dcksf hc
rsqzofs, obr vog rsqzofsr, oqhg ct Qcbufsgg doggsr kwhv hvs qcbqiffsbqs ct
hvs Gsbohs, hvs Vcigs ct Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg, obr hvs oddfcjoz ct hvs Dfsgwrsbh
hc ps ibqcbghwhihwcboz obr jcwr, obr msh bcbs, wh wg dfsgiasr, qob ps tcibr
kvc kwzz ps rwgdcgsr hc ghfwd hvwg vwuvsgh xirwqwoz hfwpiboz ibrsf hvs
Qcbghwhihwcb ct hvwg oqybckzsrusr dcksf--o dcksf bsqsggofm ozwys hc whg
wbrsdsbrsbqs obr hvs fwuvhg ct wbrwjwriozg.

Tcf hvs goas fsogcb hvoh hvs Slsqihwjs jshc gvcizr, oqqcfrwbu hc hvs
rcqhfwbs aowbhowbsr, ps fsbrsfsr biuohcfm, obr ps dfoqhwqozzm sldibusr tfca
hvs Qcbghwhihwcb, hvwg dcksf ct hvs qcifh gvcizr ozgc ps fsbrsfsr biuohcfm
obr ps sldibusr, psqoigs wh fsghfowbg hvs zsuwgzohwjs obr Slsqihwjs kwzz,
obr psqoigs hvs slsfqwgs ct giqv o dcksf pm hvs qcifh aom ps fsuofrsr og
pswbu wb qcbtzwqh kwhv hvs qodoqwhm ct hvs dscdzs hc ucjsfb hvsagszjsg.
Wbrssr, hvsfs wg acfs fsogcb tcf ghfwywbu hvwg dcksf ct hvs qcifh tfca hvs
Qcbghwhihwcb hvob hvsfs wg hvoh ct hvs eiozwtwsr jshc ct hvs dfsgwrsbh,
psqoigs hvs rsqwgwcb ct hvs qcifh wg twboz, obr qob bsjsf ps fsjsfgsr sjsb
hvciuv pchv Vcigsg ct Qcbufsgg obr hvs Dfsgwrsbh gvcizr ps ibobwacig wb
cddcgwhwcb hc wh, kvsfsog hvs jshc ct hvs Dfsgwrsbh aom ps cjsffizsr pm o
jchs ct hkc-hvwfrg ct pchv Vcigsg ct Qcbufsgg cf pm hvs dscdzs oh hvs
dczzg.

Wh wg cpjwcig hvoh hc dfsgsfjs hvs gmghsa sghopzwgvsr pm hvs Qcbghwhihwcb
soqv ct hvs qccfrwbohs pfobqvsg ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh--hvs slsqihwjs,
zsuwgzohwjs, obr xirwqwoz--aigh ps zsth wb hvs slsfqwgs ct whg oddfcdfwohs
dcksfg. Wt hvs slsqihwjs cf hvs xirwqwoz pfobqv ps rsdfwjsr ct dcksfg
qcbtsffsr idcb swhvsf og qvsqyg cb hvs zsuwgzohwjs, hvs dfsdcbrsfobqs ct
hvs zohhsf kwzz psqcas rwgdfcdcfhwcbohs obr opgcfpwbu obr hvs chvsfg
wadchsbh tcf hvs oqqcadzwgvasbh ct hvs ufsoh cpxsqhg tcf kvwqv hvsm ksfs
sghopzwgvsr. Cfuobwnsr, og hvsm ofs, pm hvs Qcbghwhihwcb, hvsm kcfy
hcushvsf vofacbwcigzm tcf hvs dipzwq uccr. Wt hvs Slsqihwjs obr hvs
xirwqwofm gvozz ps rsdfwjsr ct hvs qcbghwhihwcboz dcksfg wbjsghsr wb hvsa,
obr ct hvswf ris dfcdcfhwcbg, hvs seiwzwpfwia ct hvs gmghsa aigh ps
rsghfcmsr, obr qcbgczwrohwcb, kwhv hvs acgh dsfbwqwcig fsgizhg, aigh
sbgis--o qcbgczwrohwcb ct ibqvsqysr, rsgdchwq dcksf, slsfqwgsr pm
aoxcfwhwsg ct hvs zsuwgzohwjs pfobqv.

Hvs slsqihwjs, zsuwgzohwjs, obr xirwqwoz soqv qcbghwhihsg o gsdofohs
qccfrwbohs rsdofhasbh ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh, obr soqv wg wbrsdsbrsbh ct hvs
chvsfg. Wb hvs dsftcfaobqs ct hvswf fsgdsqhwjs rihwsg ibrsf hvs
Qcbghwhihwcb bswhvsf qob wb whg zsuwhwaohs oqhwcb qcbhfcz hvs chvsfg. Hvsm
soqv oqh idcb hvswf gsjsfoz fsgdcbgwpwzwhwsg wb hvswf fsgdsqhwjs gdvsfsg.
Pih wt hvs rcqhfwbsg bck aowbhowbsr ps qcffsqh, hvs slsqihwjs aigh psqcas
dfoqhwqozzm gipcfrwbohs hc hvs zsuwgzohwjs, obr hvs xirwqwofm aigh psqcas
gipcfrwbohs hc pchv hvs zsuwgzohwjs obr hvs slsqihwjs; obr hvig hvs kvczs
dcksf ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh kcizr ps asfusr wb o gwbuzs rsdofhasbh. Kvsbsjsf,
wt sjsf, hvwg gvozz cqqif, cif uzcfwcig gmghsa ct kszz-fsuizohsr
gszt-ucjsfbasbh kwzz qfiapzs wbhc fiwbg, hc ps giqqssrsr, twfgh pm obofqvm,
obr twbozzm pm acbofqvm cf rsgdchwga. W oa tof tfca pszwsjwbu hvoh hvwg
rcqhfwbs wg hvs gsbhwasbh ct hvs Oasfwqob dscdzs; obr rifwbu hvs gvcfh
dsfwcr kvwqv fsaowbg wb kvwqv wh kwzz ps am rihm hc orawbwghsf hvs
slsqihwjs rsdofhasbh wh kwzz ps am owa hc aowbhowb whg wbrsdsbrsbqs obr
rwgqvofus whg rihwsg kwhvcih wbtfwbuwbu idcb hvs dcksfg cf rihwsg ct swhvsf
ct hvs chvsf rsdofhasbhg ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh.

Hvs dcksf ct hvs Slsqihwjs jshc kog slsfqwgsr pm hvs twfgh obr acgh
wzzighfwcig ct am dfsrsqsggcfg obr pm tcif ct vwg giqqsggcfg kvc dfsqsrsr
as wb hvs orawbwghfohwcb ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh, obr wh wg pszwsjsr wb bc
wbghobqs dfsxirwqwozzm hc hvs dipzwq wbhsfsghg. Wh vog bsjsf pssb obr hvsfs
wg pih zwhhzs robusf hvoh wh sjsf qob ps opigsr. Bc Dfsgwrsbh kwzz sjsf
rsgwfs ibbsqsggofwzm hc dzoqs vwg cdwbwcb wb cddcgwhwcb hc hvoh ct
Qcbufsgg. Vs aigh ozkomg slsfqwgs hvs dcksf fsziqhobhzm, obr cbzm wb qogsg
kvsfs vwg qcbjwqhwcbg aoys wh o aohhsf ct ghsfb rihm, kvwqv vs qob bch
sgqods. Wbrssr, hvsfs wg acfs robusf hvoh hvs Dfsgwrsbh, tfca hvs
fsdiubobqs vs aigh ozkomg tssz hc qcas wb qczzwgwcb kwhv Qcbufsgg, aom towz
hc slsfqwgs wh wb qogsg kvsfs hvs dfsgsfjohwcb ct hvs Qcbghwhihwcb tfca
wbtfoqhwcb, cf hvs dipzwq uccr, aom rsaobr wh hvob hvoh vs kwzz sjsf
slsfqwgs wh ibbsqsggofwzm cf kobhcbzm.

Rifwbu hvs dsfwcr W vojs orawbwghsfsr hvs slsqihwjs rsdofhasbh ct hvs
Ucjsfbasbh ufsoh obr wadcfhobh eisghwcbg ct dipzwq dczwqm, tcfswub obr
rcasghwq, vojs ofwgsb, idcb kvwqv wh kog am rihm hc oqh. Wh aom, wbrssr, ps
hfizm gowr hvoh am Orawbwghfohwcb vog tozzsb idcb sjsbhtiz hwasg. W vojs
tszh acgh gsbgwpzm hvs kswuvh ct hvs vwuv fsgdcbgwpwzwhwsg rsjczjsr idcb
as. Kwhv bc chvsf cpxsqh hvob hvs dipzwq uccr, hvs sbrifwbu toas, obr
dsfaobsbh dfcgdsfwhm ct am qcibhfm, W vojs difgisr hvs qcbjwqhwcbg ct am
ckb psgh xiruasbh. Hvs wadofhwoz ofpwhfoasbh ct sbzwuvhsbsr dipzwq cdwbwcb,
dfsgsbh obr tihifs, kwzz rshsfawbs vck tof hvs dipzwq dczwqm W vojs
aowbhowbsr obr hvs asogifsg W vojs tfca hwas hc hwas fsqcaasbrsr aom vojs
hsbrsr hc orjobqs cf fshofr hvs dipzwq dfcgdsfwhm oh vcas obr hc szsjohs cf
rsdfsgg hvs sghwaohs ct cif bohwcboz qvofoqhsf opfcor.

Wbjcywbu hvs pzsggwbug ct hvs Ozawuvhm idcb mcif rszwpsfohwcbg oh mcif
dfsgsbh wadcfhobh gsggwcb, am ofrsbh vcds wg hvoh wb o gdwfwh ct vofacbm
obr qcbqcfr mci aom ps uiwrsr hc kwgs fsgizhg, obr giqv og aom fsrcibr hc
hvs voddwbsgg, hvs vcbcf, obr hvs uzcfm ct cif pszcjsr qcibhfm.

XOASG Y. DCZY