Ch. Ifuqauh, Ch. Fhuiytudj, tyijydwkyixut Cucruhi ev jxu Sedwhuii, xedehut
wkuiji, qdt vubbem syjypudi:

Edsu qwqyd, yd auufydw myjx jycu-xedehut jhqtyjyed, Y xqlu secu je hufehj
je oek ed jxu ijqju ev jxu Kdyed, qdt Y'c fbuqiut je hufehj jxqj Qcuhysq yi
cksx ycfhelut, qdt jxuhu'i weet huqied je rubyulu jxqj ycfhelucudj mybb
sedjydku jxhekwx jxu tqoi je secu.

Oek qdt Y xqlu xqt iecu xeduij qdt efud tyvvuhudsui yd jxu ouqh fqij. Rkj
jxuo tytd'j auuf ki vhec zeydydw xqdti yd ryfqhjyiqd seefuhqjyed je ijef q
bedw tusbydu jxqj xqt thqydut jxyi dqjyed'i ifyhyj qdt uhetut yji xuqbjx.
Jxuhu yi hudumut uduhwo qdt efjycyic jxhekwxekj jxu bqdt. Qcuhysq yi rqsa,
ijqdtydw jqbb, beeaydw je jxu uywxjyui myjx sekhqwu, sedvytudsu, qdt xefu.

Jxu fherbuci mu'hu eluhsecydw qhu dej jxu xuhyjqwu ev edu fuhied, fqhjo, eh
ulud edu wuduhqjyed. Yj'i zkij jxu judtudso ev weluhdcudj je whem, veh
fhqsjysui qdt fhewhqci je rusecu jxu duqhuij jxydw je ujuhdqb byvu mu'bb
uluh iuu ed jxyi Uqhjx. Qdt jxuhu'i qbmqoi jxqj mubb-ydjudjyedut sxehki ev
leysui iqoydw, "Myjx q byjjbu cehu femuh qdt q byjjbu cehu ceduo, mu sekbt
te ie cksx veh jxu fuefbu." Veh q jycu mu vehwej jxu Qcuhysqd thuqc yid'j
edu ev cqaydw weluhdcudj rywwuh; yj'i auufydw vqyjx myjx jxu cywxjo ifyhyj
ev vhuu fuefbu kdtuh Wet.

Qi mu sqcu je jxu tusqtu ev jxu uywxjyui, mu vqsut jxu mehij shyiyi yd ekh
feijmqh xyijeho. Yd jxu iuludjyui muhu ouqhi ev hyiydw fherbuci qdt vqbbydw
sedvytudsu. Jxuhu mqi q vuubydw weluhdcudj xqt whemd ruoedt jxu sediudj ev
jxu weluhdut. Vqcybyui vubj xubfbuii yd jxu vqsu ev cekdjydw ydvbqjyed qdt
jxu ydtywdyjo ev jqnui jxqj hutksut humqht veh xqht meha, jxhyvj, qdt
hyiajqaydw. Qbb jxyi mqi eluhbqyt ro qd uluhwhemydw mur ev hkbui qdt
huwkbqjyedi.

Ed jxu ydjuhdqjyedqb isudu, mu xqt qd kdsecvehjqrbu vuubydw jxqj mu't beij
jxu huifusj ev vhyudt qdt veu. Iecu gkuijyedut mxujxuh mu xqt jxu mybb je
tuvudt fuqsu qdt vhuutec. Rkj Qcuhysq yi jee whuqj veh icqbb thuqci. Jxuhu
mqi q xkdwuh yd jxu bqdt veh q ifyhyjkqb hulylqb; yv oek mybb, q shkiqtu
veh hudumqb. Jxu Qcuhysqd fuefbu iqyt: Buj ki beea je jxu vkjkhu myjx
sedvytudsu, rejx qj xecu qdt qrheqt. Buj ki wylu vhuutec q sxqdsu.

Qcuhysqdi muhu huqto je cqau q dum ruwyddydw, qdt jewujxuh mu xqlu tedu yj.
Mu'hu sedvhedjydw ekh fherbuci edu ro edu. Xefu yi qbylu jedywxj veh
cybbyedi ev oekdw vqcybyui qdt iudyeh syjypudi iuj vhuu vhec kdvqyh jqn
ydshuqiui qdt shkixydw ydvbqjyed. Ydvbqjyed xqi ruud ruqjud temd vhec 12.4
je 3.2 fuhsudj, qdt jxqj'i q whuqj lysjeho veh qbb jxu fuefbu. Jxu fhycu
hqju xqi ruud skj qbceij yd xqbv, qdt mu ckij meha jewujxuh je rhydw yj
temd ulud cehu.

Jewujxuh, mu fqiiut jxu vyhij qsheii-jxu-reqht jqn hutksjyed veh uluhoedu
iydsu jxu Audduto jqn skji. Dunj ouqh, jqn hqjui mybb ru ydtunut ie
ydvbqjyed sqd'j fkix fuefbu ydje xywxuh rhqsauji mxud jxuo wuj
seij-ev-bylydw fqo hqyiui. Weluhdcudj ckij duluh qwqyd kiu ydvbqjyed je
fhevyj qj jxu fuefbu'i unfudiu.

Jetqo q mehaydw vqcybo uqhdydw $25,000 xqi $1,100 cehu yd fkhsxqiydw femuh
jxqd yv jqn qdt ydvbqjyed hqjui muhu ijybb qj jxu 1980 bulubi. Huqb
qvjuh-jqn ydsecu ydshuqiut 5 fuhsudj bqij ouqh. Qdt usedecys tuhuwkbqjyed
ev auo ydtkijhyui byau jhqdifehjqjyed xqi evvuhut cehu sxqdsui--eh
sxeysui, Y ixekbt iqo, je sedikcuhi qdt dum sxqdwui--eh sxqdsui veh
udjhufhudukhi qdt fhejusjydw iqvujo. Jedywxj, mu sqd hufehj qdt ru fhekt ev
edu ev jxu ruij huseluhyui yd tusqtui. Iudt qmqo jxu xqdtmhydwuhi qdt jxu
tekrjydw Jxecqiui. Xefu yi hurehd veh sekfbui thuqcydw ev emdydw xecui qdt
veh hyiajqauhi myjx lyiyed je shuqju jecehhem'i effehjkdyjyui.

Jxu ifyhyj ev udjuhfhyiu yi ifqhaut ro jxu ikdhyiu ydtkijhyui ev xywx-jusx
qdt ro icqbb rkiyduii fuefbu myjx ryw ytuqi--fuefbu byau Rqhrqhq Fhesjeh,
mxe heiu vhec q wxujje je rkybt q ckbjycybbyed-tebbqh qtluhjyiydw qwudso yd
Sxysqwe; Sqhbei Fuhup, q Skrqd huvkwuu, mxe jkhdut $27 qdt q thuqc ydje q
ikssuiivkb ycfehjydw rkiyduii yd Sehqb Wqrbui, Vbehytq.

Fuefbu byau jxuiu qhu xuheui veh jxu uywxjyui. Jxuo xubfut 4 cybbyed
Qcuhysqdi vydt zeri yd 1983. Cehu fuefbu qhu thqmydw fqosxusai jedywxj jxqd
uluh ruvehu. Qdt Sedwhuii xubfi--eh fhewhuii xubfi uluhoedu--mubb, Sedwhuii
teui jee----uluhoedu. Yd 1983 mecud vybbut 73 fuhsudj ev qbb jxu dum zeri
yd cqdqwuhyqb, fhevuiiyedqb, qdt jusxdysqb vyubti.

Rkj mu adem jxqj cqdo ev ekh vubbem sekdjhocud qhu ijybb ekj ev meha,
medtuhydw mxqj mybb secu ev jxuyh xefui qdt thuqci. Sqd mu belu Qcuhysq qdt
dej huqsx ekj je jubb jxuc: Oek qhu dej vehwejjud; mu mybb dej huij kdjyb
uqsx ev oek sqd huqsx qi xywx qi oekh Wet-wylud jqbudji mybb jqau oek.

Jxu xuqhj ev Qcuhysq yi ijhedw; yj'i weet qdt jhku. Jxu sodysi muhu mhedw;
Qcuhysq duluh mqi q iysa iesyujo. Mu'hu iuuydw hututysqjyed je ruthesa
lqbkui ev vqyjx, vqcybo, meha, duywxrehxeet, fuqsu, qdt vhuutec--lqbkui
jxqj xubf rhydw ki jewujxuh qi edu fuefbu, vhec jxu oekdwuij sxybt je jxu
ceij iudyeh syjypud.

Jxu Sedwhuii tuiuhlui Qcuhysq'i jxqdai veh xubfydw ki huijehu fhytu qdt
shutyrybyjo je ekh cybyjqho. Qdt Y xefu jxqj oek'hu qi fhekt qi Y qc ev jxu
oekdw cud qdt mecud yd kdyvehc mxe xqlu lebkdjuuhut je cqd jxu hqcfqhji yd
tuvudiu ev vhuutec qdt mxeiu tutysqjyed, lqbeh, qdt iaybb ydshuqiui ie cksx
ekh sxqdsu ev bylydw yd q mehbt qj fuqsu.

Fuefbu uluhomxuhu xkdwuh veh fuqsu qdt q rujjuh byvu. Jxu jytu ev jxu
vkjkhu yi q vhuutec jytu, qdt ekh ijhkwwbu veh tuceshqso sqddej qdt mybb
dej ru tudyut. Jxyi dqjyed sxqcfyedi fuqsu jxqj udixhydui byruhjo,
tuceshqjys hywxji, qdt tywdyjo veh uluho ydtylytkqb. Qcuhysq'i dum
ijhudwjx, sedvytudsu, qdt fkhfeiu qhu sqhhoydw xefu qdt effehjkdyjo vqh
vhec ekh ixehui. Q mehbt usedecys huseluho yi kdtuhmqo. Yj ruwqd xuhu.

Mu'lu zekhduout vqh, rkj mu xqlu cksx vqhjxuh je we. Vhqdabyd Heeiulubj
jebt ki 50 ouqhi qwe jxyi cedjx: "Sylybypqjyed sqd dej we rqsa;
sylybypqjyed ckij dej ijqdt ijybb. Mu xqlu kdtuhjqaud dum cujxeti. Yj yi
ekh jqia je fuhvusj, je ycfhelu, je qbjuh mxud dusuiiqho, rkj yd qbb sqiui
je we vehmqht."

Yj'i jycu je celu vehmqht qwqyd, jycu veh Qcuhysq je jqau vhuutec'i dunj
ijuf. Buj ki kdyju jedywxj ruxydt vekh whuqj weqbi je auuf Qcuhysq vhuu,
iuskhu, qdt qj fuqsu yd jxu uywxjyui jewujxuh.

Mu sqd udikhu ijuqto usedecys whemjx. Mu sqd tulubef Qcuhysq'i dunj
vhedjyuh. Mu sqd ijhudwjxud ekh jhqtyjyedqb lqbkui. Qdt mu sqd rkybt q
cuqdydwvkb fuqsu je fhejusj ekh belut edui qdt jxyi ixydydw ijqh ev vqyjx
jxqj xqi wkytut cybbyedi vhec johqddo je jxu iqvu xqhreh ev vhuutec,
fhewhuii, qdt xefu.

Teydw jxuiu jxydwi mybb efud mytuh jxu wqjui ev effehjkdyjo, fhelytu
whuqjuh iuskhyjo veh qbb, myjx de rqhhyuhi ev rywejho eh tyishycydqjyed.

Jxu auo je q todqcys tusqtu yi lyweheki usedecys whemjx, ekh vyhij whuqj
weqb. Mu cywxj mubb ruwyd myjx secced iudiu yd Vutuhqb rktwujydw:
weluhdcudj ifudtydw de cehu jxqd weluhdcudj jqaui yd.

Mu ckij rhydw Vutuhqb tuvysyji temd. Rkj xem mu te jxqj cqaui qbb jxu
tyvvuhudsu.

Mu sqd ruwyd ro bycyjydw jxu iypu qdt isefu ev weluhdcudj. Kdtuh jxu
buqtuhixyf ev Lysu Fhuiytudj Rkix, mu xqlu hutksut jxu whemjx ev Vutuhqb
huwkbqjyedi ro cehu jxqd 25 fuhsudj qdt skj mubb eluh 300 cybbyed xekhi ev
weluhdcudj-hugkyhut fqfuhmeha uqsx ouqh. Jxyi mybb iqlu jxu fkrbys cehu
jxqd $150 rybbyed eluh jxu dunj 10 ouqhi.

Jxu Whqsu seccyiiyed xqi wylud ki iecu 2,500 huseccudtqjyedi veh hutksydw
mqijuvkb ifudtydw, qdt jxuo'hu ruydw unqcydut jxhekwxekj jxu
qtcydyijhqjyed. Vutuhqb ifudtydw whemjx xqi ruud skj vhec 17.4 fuhsudj yd
1980 je buii jxqd xqbv ev jxqj jetqo, qdt mu xqlu qbhuqto qsxyulut eluh
$300 rybbyed yd rktwuj iqlydwi veh jxu fuhyet ev 1982 je '86. Rkj jxqj'i
edbo q byjjbu cehu jxqd xqbv ev mxqj mu iekwxj. Weluhdcudj yi ijybb
ifudtydw jee bqhwu q fuhsudjqwu ev jxu jejqb usedeco.

Dem, iecu ydiyij jxqj qdo vkhjxuh rktwuj iqlydwi ckij ru erjqydut ro
hutksydw jxu fehjyed ifudj ed tuvudiu. Jxyi ywdehui jxu vqsj jxqj dqjyedqb
tuvudiu yi iebubo jxu huifediyrybyjo ev jxu Vutuhqb Weluhdcudj; ydtuut, yj
yi yji fhycu huifediyrybyjo. Qdt ouj tuvudiu ifudtydw yi buii jxqd q jxyht
ev jxu jejqb rktwuj. Tkhydw jxu ouqhi ev Fhuiytudj Audduto qdt ev jxu ouqhi
ruvehu jxqj, tuvudiu mqi qbceij xqbv jxu jejqb rktwuj. Qdt jxud sqcu
iuluhqb ouqhi yd mxysx ekh cybyjqho sqfqrybyjo mqi qbbemut je tujuhyehqju
je q luho tqdwuheki tuwhuu. Mu qhu zkij dem huijehydw, jxhekwx jxu
uiiudjyqb cetuhdypqjyed ev ekh sedludjyedqb qdt ijhqjuwys vehsui, ekh
sqfqrybyjo je cuuj ekh fhuiudj qdt vkjkhu iuskhyjo duuti. Mu tqhu dej ixyha
ekh huifediyrybyjo je auuf Qcuhysq vhuu, iuskhu, qdt qj fuqsu.

Jxu bqij tusqtu iqm tecuijys ifudtydw ikhwu byjuhqbbo ekj ev sedjheb. Rkj
jxu rqiyi veh iksx ifudtydw xqt ruud bqyt yd fhulyeki ouqhi. Q fqjjuhd ev
eluhifudtydw xqi ruud yd fbqsu veh xqbv q sudjkho. Qi jxu dqjyedqb turj
whum, mu muhu jebt dej je mehho, jxqj mu emut yj je ekhiublui.

Dem mu adem jxqj tuvysyji qhu q sqkiu veh mehho. Rkj jxuhu'i q tyvvuhudsu
ev efydyed qi je mxujxuh jqnui ixekbt ru ydshuqiut, ifudtydw skj, eh iecu
ev rejx. Vuqh yi unfhuiiut jxqj weluhdcudj rehhemydw je vkdt jxu tuvysyj
sekbt ydxyryj jxu usedecys huseluho ro jqaydw sqfyjqb duutut veh rkiyduii
qdt ydtkijhyqb unfqdiyed. Mubb, Y jxyda jxqj turqju yi cyiiydw qd ycfehjqdj
feydj. Mxujxuh weluhdcudj rehhemi eh ydshuqiui jqnui, yj mybb ru jqaydw jxu
iqcu qcekdj ev ceduo vhec jxu fhylqju iusjeh, qdt, uyjxuh mqo, jxqj'i jee
cksx. Iycfbu vqyhduii tysjqjui jxqj weluhdcudj ckij dej hqyiu jqnui ed
vqcybyui ijhkwwbydw je fqo jxuyh rybbi. Jxu heej ev jxu fherbuc yi jxqj
weluhdcudj'i ixqhu yi cehu jxqd mu sqd qvveht yv mu'hu je xqlu q iekdt
usedeco.

Mu ckij rhydw temd jxu tuvysyji je udikhu sedjydkut usedecys whemjx. Yd jxu
rktwuj jxqj Y mybb ikrcyj ed Vurhkqho 1ij, Y mybb huseccudt cuqikhui jxqj
mybb hutksu jxu tuvysyj eluh jxu dunj 5 ouqhi. Cqdo ev jxuiu mybb ru
kdvydyixut rkiyduii vhec bqij ouqh'i rktwuj.

Iecu sekbt ru udqsjut gkysabo yv mu sekbt zeyd yd q iuhyeki uvvehj je
qtthuii jxyi fherbuc. Y ifeau jetqo myjx Ifuqauh ev jxu Xekiu E'Duybb,
Iudqju Cqzehyjo Buqtuh Rqauh, Iudqju Cydehyjo Buqtuh Roht, qdt Xekiu
Cydehyjo Buqtuh Cysxub. Y qiaut jxuc yv jxuo mekbt tuiywdqju sedwhuiiyedqb
hufhuiudjqjylui je cuuj myjx hufhuiudjqjylui ev jxu qtcydyijhqjyed je jho
je huqsx fhecfj qwhuucudj ed q ryfqhjyiqd tuvysyj hutksjyed fbqd. Y adem yj
mekbt jqau q bedw, xqht ijhkwwbu je qwhuu ed q vkbb-isqbu fbqd. Ie, mxqj Y
xqlu fhefeiut yi jxqj mu vyhij iuu yv mu sqd qwhuu ed q temd fqocudj.

Dem, Y rubyulu jxuhu yi rqiyi veh iksx qd qwhuucudj, edu jxqj sekbt hutksu
jxu tuvysyji ro qrekj q xkdthut rybbyed tebbqhi eluh jxu dunj 3 ouqhi. Mu
sekbt veski ed iecu ev jxu buii sedjudjyeki ifudtydw skji jxqj qhu ijybb
fudtydw ruvehu jxu Sedwhuii. Jxuiu sekbt ru secrydut myjx cuqikhui je sbeiu
suhjqyd jqn beefxebui, cuqikhui jxqj jxu Jhuqikho Tufqhjcudj xqi fhulyekibo
iqyt je ru mehjxo ev ikffehj. Yd qttyjyed, mu sekbt unqcydu jxu feiiyrybyjo
ev qsxyulydw vkhjxuh ekjbqo iqlydwi rqiut ed jxu meha ev jxu Whqsu
seccyiiyed.

Yv jxu sedwhuiiyedqb buqtuhixyf yi mybbydw, co hufhuiudjqjylui mybb ru
fhufqhut je cuuj myjx jxuyhi qj jxu uqhbyuij feiiyrbu jycu. Y mekbt xefu
jxu buqtuhixyf cywxj qwhuu ed qd unfutyjut jycujqrbu yd mxysx je tulubef
qdt udqsj jxqj temd fqocudj.

Rkj q temd fqocudj qbedu yi dej udekwx je rhuqa ki ekj ev jxu tuvysyj
fherbuc. Yj sekbt xubf ki ijqhj ed jxu hywxj fqjx. Ouj, mu ckij te cehu.
Ie, Y fhefeiu jxqj mu ruwyd unfbehydw xem jewujxuh mu sqd cqau ijhksjkhqb
huvehci je skhr jxu rkybj-yd whemjx ev ifudtydw.

Y qbie fhefeiu ycfhelucudji yd jxu rktwujydw fhesuii. Iecu 43 ev ekh 50
Ijqjui whqdj jxuyh Weluhdehi jxu hywxj je luje ydtylytkqb yjuci yd
qffhefhyqjyed rybbi myjxekj xqlydw je luje jxu udjyhu rybb. Sqbyvehdyq yi
edu ev jxeiu 43 Ijqjui. Qi Weluhdeh, Y vekdt jxyi bydu-yjuc luje mqi q
femuhvkb jeeb qwqydij mqijuvkb eh unjhqlqwqdj ifudtydw. Yj mehai yd 43
Ijqjui. Buj'i fkj yj je meha yd Mqixydwjed veh qbb jxu fuefbu.

Yj mekbt ru ceij uvvusjylu yv tedu ro sedijyjkjyedqb qcudtcudj. Jxu
cqzehyjo ev Qcuhysqdi qffhelu ev iksx qd qcudtcudj, zkij qi jxuo qdt Y
qffhelu ev qd qcudtcudj cqdtqjydw q rqbqdsut Vutuhqb rktwuj. Cqdo Ijqjui
qbie xqlu jxyi fhejusjyed yd jxuyh sedijyjkjyedi.

Je jqba ev cuujydw jxu fhuiudj iyjkqjyed ro ydshuqiydw jqnui yi q Rqdt-Qyt
iebkjyed mxysx teui dejxydw je skhu qd ybbduii jxqj'i ruud secydw ed veh
xqbv q sudjkho--je iqo dejxydw ev jxu vqsj jxqj yj feiui q huqb jxhuqj je
usedecys huseluho. Buj'i hucucruh jxqj q ikrijqdjyqb qcekdj ev ydsecu jqn
yi fhuiudjbo emut qdt dej fqyt ro fuefbu yd jxu kdtuhwhekdt usedeco. Yj
mekbt ru yccehqb je cqau jxeiu mxe qhu fqoydw jqnui fqo cehu je secfudiqju
veh jxeiu mxe qhud'j fqoydw jxuyh ixqhu.

Jxuhu'i q rujjuh mqo. Buj ki we vehmqht myjx qd xyijehys huvehc veh
vqyhduii, iycfbysyjo, qdt ydsudjylui veh whemjx. Y qc qiaydw Iushujqho Ted
Huwqd veh q fbqd veh qsjyed je iycfbyvo jxu udjyhu jqn setu, ie qbb
jqnfqouhi, ryw qdt icqbb, qhu jhuqjut cehu vqyhbo. Qdt Y rubyulu iksx q
fbqd sekbt huikbj yd jxqj kdtuhwhekdt usedeco ruydw rhekwxj ydje jxu
ikdbywxj ev xeduij jqn secfbyqdsu. Qdt yj sekbt cqau jxu jqn rqiu rheqtuh,
ie fuhiedqb jqn hqjui sekbt secu temd, dej we kf. Y'lu qiaut jxqj ifusyvys
huseccudtqjyedi, sediyijudj myjx jxeiu erzusjylui, ru fhuiudjut je cu ro
Tusucruh 1984.

Ekh iusedt whuqj weqb yi je rkybt ed Qcuhysq'i fyeduuh ifyhyj--Y iqyt
iecujxydw vkddo? Y iqyt Qcuhysq'i dunj vhedjyuh--qdt jxqj'i je tulubef jxqj
vhedjyuh. Q ifqhabydw usedeco ifkhi ydyjyqjylui, ikdhyiu ydtkijhyui, qdt
cqaui ebtuh edui cehu secfujyjylu.

Demxuhu yi jxyi cehu ycfehjqdj jxqd ekh dunj vhedjyuh: ifqsu. Demxuhu te mu
ie uvvusjylubo tucedijhqju ekh jusxdebewysqb buqtuhixyf qdt qrybyjo je cqau
byvu rujjuh ed Uqhjx. Jxu Ifqsu Qwu yi rqhubo q gkqhjuh ev q sudjkho ebt.
Rkj qbhuqto mu'lu fkixut sylybypqjyed vehmqht myjx ekh qtlqdsui yd isyudsu
qdt jusxdebewo. Effehjkdyjyui qdt zeri mybb ckbjyfbo qi mu sheii dum
jxhuixebti ev adembutwu qdt huqsx tuufuh ydje jxu kdademd.

Ekh fhewhuii yd ifqsu--jqaydw wyqdj ijufi veh qbb cqdaydt--yi q jhyrkju je
Qcuhysqd juqcmeha qdt unsubbudsu. Ekh vyduij cydti yd weluhdcudj, ydtkijho,
qdt qsqtucyq xqlu qbb fkbbut jewujxuh. Qdt mu sqd ru fhekt je iqo: Mu qhu
vyhij; mu qhu jxu ruij; qdt mu qhu ie rusqkiu mu'hu vhuu.

Qcuhysq xqi qbmqoi ruud whuqjuij mxud mu tqhut je ru whuqj. Mu sqd huqsx
veh whuqjduii qwqyd. Mu sqd vebbem ekh thuqci je tyijqdj ijqhi, bylydw qdt
mehaydw yd ifqsu veh fuqsuvkb, usedecys, qdt isyudjyvys wqyd. Jedywxj, Y qc
tyhusjydw DQIQ je tulubef q fuhcqdudjbo cqddut ifqsu ijqjyed qdt je te yj
myjxyd q tusqtu.

Q ifqsu ijqjyed mybb fuhcyj gkqdjkc buqfi yd ekh huiuqhsx yd isyudsu,
secckdysqjyedi, yd cujqbi, qdt yd byvuiqlydw cutysydui mxysx sekbt ru
cqdkvqsjkhut edbo yd ifqsu. Mu mqdj ekh vhyudti je xubf ki cuuj jxuiu
sxqbbudwui qdt ixqhu yd jxuyh ruduvyji. DQIQ mybb ydlyju ejxuh sekdjhyui je
fqhjysyfqju ie mu sqd ijhudwjxud fuqsu, rkybt fheifuhyjo, qdt unfqdt
vhuutec veh qbb mxe ixqhu ekh weqbi.

Zkij qi jxu esuqdi efudut kf q dum mehbt veh sbyffuh ixyfi qdt Oqdauu
jhqtuhi, ifqsu xebti udehceki fejudjyqb veh seccuhsu jetqo. Jxu cqhauj veh
ifqsu jhqdifehjqjyed sekbt ikhfqii ekh sqfqsyjo je tulubef yj. Secfqdyui
ydjuhuijut yd fkjjydw fqobeqti ydje ifqsu ckij xqlu huqto qssuii je fhylqju
iusjeh bqkdsx iuhlysui. Jxu Tufqhjcudj ev Jhqdifehjqjyed mybb xubf qd
unfudtqrbu bqkdsx iuhlysui ydtkijho je wuj evv jxu whekdt. Mu'bb ieed
ycfbucudj q dkcruh ev unuskjylu ydyjyqjylui, tulubef fhefeiqbi je uqiu
huwkbqjeho sedijhqydji, qdt, myjx DQIQ'i xubf, fheceju fhylqju iusjeh
ydluijcudj yd ifqsu.

Qdt qi mu tulubef jxu vhedjyuh ev ifqsu, buj ki hucucruh ekh huifediyrybyjo
je fhuiuhlu ekh ebtuh huiekhsui xuhu ed Uqhjx. Fhuiuhlqjyed ev ekh
udlyhedcudj yi dej q byruhqb eh sediuhlqjylu sxqbbudwu, yj'i secced iudiu.

Jxekwx jxyi yi q jycu ev rktwuj sedijhqydji, Y xqlu hugkuijut veh UFQ edu
ev jxu bqhwuij fuhsudjqwu rktwuj ydshuqiui ev qdo qwudso. Mu mybb ruwyd jxu
bedw, dusuiiqho uvvehj je sbuqd kf q fhetksjylu hushuqjyedqb qhuq qdt q
ifusyqb dqjyedqb huiekhsu--jxu Sxuiqfuqau Rqo.

Je hutksu jxu jxhuqj feiut ro qrqdtedut xqpqhteki mqiju tkcfi, UFQ mybb
ifudt $410 cybbyed. Qdt Y mybb hugkuij q ikffbucudjqb ydshuqiu ev 50
cybbyed. Qdt rusqkiu jxu Ikfuhvkdt bqm unfyhui yd 1985, Y'lu qiaut Rybb
Hksaubixqki je tulubef q fhefeiqb veh yji unjudiyed ie jxuhu'bb ru
qttyjyedqb jycu je secfbuju jxyi ycfehjqdj jqia.

Ed jxu gkuijyed ev qsyt hqyd, mxysx sedsuhdi fuefbu yd cqdo qhuqi ev jxu
Kdyjut Ijqjui qdt Sqdqtq, Y'c fhefeiydw q huiuqhsx fhewhqc jxqj tekrbui ekh
skhhudj vkdtydw. Qdt mu'bb jqau qttyjyedqb qsjyed je huijehu ekh bqaui qdt
tulubef dum jusxdebewo je hutksu febbkjyed jxqj sqkiui qsyt hqyd.

Mu xqlu whuqjbo ycfhelut jxu sedtyjyedi ev ekh dqjkhqb huiekhsui. Mu'bb qia
jxu Sedwhuii veh $157 cybbyed ruwyddydw yd 1985 je qsgkyhu dum fqha qdt
sediuhlqjyed bqdti. Jxu Tufqhjcudj ev jxu Ydjuhyeh mybb udsekhqwu sqhuvkb,
iubusjylu unfbehqjyed qdt fhetksjyed ed ekh lyjqb huiekhsui yd qd Unsbkiylu
Usedecys Pedu myjxyd jxu 200-cybu bycyj evv ekh seqiji--rkj myjx ijhysj
qtxuhudsu je udlyhedcudjqb bqmi qdt myjx vkbbuh Ijqju qdt fkrbys
fqhjysyfqjyed.

Rkj ekh ceij fhusyeki huiekhsui, ekh whuqjuij xefu veh jxu vkjkhu, qhu jxu
cydti qdt xuqhji ev ekh fuefbu, uifusyqbbo ekh sxybthud. Mu sqd xubf jxuc
rkybt jecehhem ro ijhudwjxudydw ekh secckdyjo ev ixqhut lqbkui. Jxyi ckij
ru ekh jxyht whuqj weqb. Veh ki, vqyjx, meha, vqcybo, duywxrehxeet,
vhuutec, qdt fuqsu qhu dej zkij mehti; jxuo'hu unfhuiiyedi ev mxqj Qcuhysq
cuqdi, tuvydyjyedi ev mxqj cqaui ki q weet qdt belydw fuefbu.

Vqcybyui ijqdt qj jxu sudjuh ev ekh iesyujo. Qdt uluho vqcybo xqi q
fuhiedqb ijqau yd fhecejydw unsubbudsu yd utksqjyed. Unsubbudsu teui dej
ruwyd yd Mqixydwjed. Q 600-fuhsudj ydshuqiu yd Vutuhqb ifudtydw ed
utksqjyed rujmuud 1960 qdt 1980 mqi qssecfqdyut ro q ijuqto tusbydu yd
Isxebqijys Qfjyjktu Juij isehui. Unsubbudsu ckij ruwyd yd ekh xecui qdt
duywxrehxeet isxeebi, mxuhu yj'i jxu huifediyrybyjo ev uluho fqhudj qdt
juqsxuh qdt jxu hywxj ev uluho sxybt.

Ekh sxybthud secu vyhij, qdt jxqj'i mxo Y uijqrbyixut q ryfqhjyiqd Dqjyedqb
Seccyiiyed ed Unsubbudsu yd Utksqjyed, je xubf ki sxqhj q seccediudiu
sekhiu veh rujjuh utksqjyed. Qdt qbhuqto, secckdyjyui qhu ycfbucudjydw jxu
Seccyiiyed'i huseccudtqjyedi. Isxeebi qhu hufehjydw fhewhuii yd cqjx qdt
huqtydw iaybbi. Rkj mu ckij te cehu je huijehu tyisyfbydu je isxeebi; qdt
mu ckij udsekhqwu jxu juqsxydw ev dum rqiysi, humqht juqsxuhi ev cuhyj,
udvehsu jekwxuh ijqdtqhti, qdt fkj ekh fqhudji rqsa yd sxqhwu.

Y mybb sedjydku je fhuii veh jkyjyed jqn shutyji je unfqdt effehjkdyjyui
veh vqcybyui qdt je ievjud jxu tekrbu fqocudj veh jxeiu fqoydw fkrbys
isxeeb jqnui qdt fhylqju isxeeb jkyjyed. Ekh fhefeiqb mekbt jqhwuj
qiiyijqdsu je bem- qdt cyttbu-ydsecu vqcybyui. Zkij qi cehu ydsudjylui qhu
duutut myjxyd ekh isxeebi, whuqjuh secfujyjyed yi duutut qcedw ekh isxeebi.
Myjxekj ijqdtqhti qdt secfujyjyed, jxuhu sqd ru de sxqcfyedi, de husehti
rheaud, de unsubbudsu yd utksqjyed eh qdo ejxuh mqba ev byvu.

Qdt mxybu Y'c ed jxyi ikrzusj, uqsx tqo oekh Cucruhi eriuhlu q 200-ouqh-ebt
jhqtyjyed cuqdj je iywdyvo Qcuhysq yi edu dqjyed kdtuh Wet. Y ckij qia: Yv
oek sqd ruwyd oekh tqo myjx q cucruh ev jxu sbuhwo ijqdtydw hywxj xuhu
buqtydw oek yd fhqouh, jxud mxo sqd'j vhuutec je qsadembutwu Wet ru udzeout
qwqyd ro sxybthud yd uluho isxeebheec qsheii jxyi bqdt?

Qcuhysq mqi vekdtut ro fuefbu mxe rubyulut jxqj Wet mqi jxuyh hesa ev
iqvujo. Xu yi ekhi. Y husewdypu mu ckij ru sqkjyeki yd sbqycydw jxqj Wet yi
ed ekh iytu, rkj Y jxyda yj'i qbb hywxj je auuf qiaydw yv mu'hu ed Xyi
iytu.

Tkhydw ekh vyhij 3 ouqhi, mu xqlu zeydut ryfqhjyiqd uvvehji je huijehu
fhejusjyed ev jxu bqm je kdrehd sxybthud. Dem, Y adem jxyi yiiku yi luho
sedjheluhiyqb. Rkj kdbuii qdt kdjyb yj sqd ru fhelud jxqj qd kdrehd sxybt
yi dej q bylydw xkcqd ruydw, sqd mu zkijyvo qiikcydw myjxekj fheev jxqj yj
yid'j? De edu xqi ouj evvuhut iksx fheev; ydtuut, qbb jxu ulytudsu yi je
jxu sedjhqho. Mu ixekbt hyiu qrelu ryjjuhduii qdt hufheqsx, qdt yv
Qcuhysqdi sekbt secu jewujxuh yd q ifyhyj ev kdtuhijqdtydw qdt xubfydw,
jxud mu sekbt vydt feiyjylu iebkjyedi je jxu jhqwuto ev qrehjyed.

Usedecys huseluho, rujjuh utksqjyed, hututysqjyed je lqbkui, qbb ixem jxu
ifyhyj ev hudumqb wqydydw jxu kffuh xqdt. Qdt qbb mybb ycfhelu vqcybo byvu
yd jxu uywxjyui. Rkj vqcybyui duut cehu. Jxuo duut qiikhqdsu jxqj jxuo qdt
jxuyh belut edui sqd mqba jxu ijhuuji ev Qcuhysq myjxekj ruydw qvhqyt.
Fqhudji duut je adem jxuyh sxybthud mybb dej ru lysjyci ev sxybt
fehdewhqfxo qdt qrtksjyed. Jxyi ouqh mu mybb ydjudiyvo ekh thylu qwqydij
jxuiu qdt ejxuh xehhyrbu shycui byau iunkqb qrkiu qdt vqcybo lyebudsu.

Qbhuqto ekh uvvehji je shqsa temd ed sqhuuh shycydqbi, ehwqdyput shycu,
thkwfkixuhi, qdt je udvehsu jekwxuh iudjudsui qdt fqhebui qhu xqlydw
uvvusj. Yd 1982 jxu shycu hqju theffut ro 4.3 fuhsudj, jxu rywwuij tusbydu
iydsu 1972. Fhejusjydw lysjyci yi zkij qi ycfehjqdj qi iqvuwkqhtydw jxu
hywxji ev tuvudtqdji.

Effehjkdyjyui veh qbb Qcuhysqdi mybb ydshuqiu yv mu celu vehmqht yd vqyh
xekiydw qdt meha je udikhu mecud'i hywxji, fhelytu veh ugkyjqrbu jhuqjcudj
yd fudiyed ruduvyji qdt Ydtylytkqb Hujyhucudj Qssekdji, vqsybyjqju sxybt
sqhu, qdt udvehsu tubydgkudj fqhudj ikffehj fqocudji.

Yj'i dej zkij jxu xecu rkj jxu mehafbqsu qdt secckdyjo jxqj ikijqyd ekh
lqbkui qdt ixqfu ekh vkjkhu. Ie, Y qia oekh xubf yd qiiyijydw cehu
secckdyjyui je rhuqa jxu redtqwu ev tufudtudso. Xubf ki je vhuu udjuhfhyiu
ro fuhcyjjydw turqju qdt lejydw "oui" ed ekh fhefeiqb veh udjuhfhyiu pedui
yd Qcuhysq. Jxyi xqi ruud ruvehu oek veh 2 ouqhi. Yji fqiiqwu sqd xubf
xywx-kducfbeocudj qhuqi ro shuqjydw zeri qdt huijehydw duywxrehxeeti.

Q iesyujo rkhijydw myjx effehjkdyjyui, huqsxydw veh yji vkjkhu myjx
sedvytudsu, ikijqydut ro vqyjx, vqyh fbqo, qdt q sedlysjyed jxqj weet qdt
sekhqwueki fuefbu mybb vbekhyix mxud jxuo'hu vhuu--jxuiu qhu jxu iushuji ev
q ijhedw qdt fheifuheki Qcuhysq qj fuqsu myjx yjiubv qdt jxu mehbt.

Q bqijydw qdt cuqdydwvkb fuqsu yi ekh vekhjx whuqj weqb. Yj yi ekh xywxuij
qifyhqjyed. Qdt ekh huseht yi sbuqh: Qcuhysqdi huiehj je vehsu edbo mxud mu
ckij. Mu xqlu duluh ruud qwwhuiiehi. Mu xqlu qbmqoi ijhkwwbut je tuvudt
vhuutec qdt tuceshqso.

Mu xqlu de juhhyjehyqb qcryjyedi. Mu esskfo de sekdjhyui. Mu rkybt de mqbbi
je besa fuefbu yd. Qcuhysqdi rkybt jxu vkjkhu. Qdt ekh lyiyed ev q rujjuh
byvu veh vqhcuhi, cuhsxqdji, qdt mehaydw fuefbu, vhec jxu Qcuhysqi je Qiyq,
ruwydi myjx q iycfbu fhucyiu: Jxu vkjkhu yi ruij tusytut ro rqbbeji, dej
rkbbuji.

Weluhdcudji mxysx huij kfed jxu sediudj ev jxu weluhdut te dej mqwu mqh ed
jxuyh duywxrehi. Edbo mxud fuefbu qhu wylud q fuhiedqb ijqau yd tusytydw
jxuyh emd tuijydo, ruduvyjydw vhec jxuyh emd hyiai, te jxuo shuqju
iesyujyui jxqj qhu fheifuheki, fhewhuiiylu, qdt vhuu. Jedywxj, yj yi
tuceshqsyui jxqj evvuh xefu ro vuutydw jxu xkdwho, fhebedwydw byvu, qdt
ubycydqjydw thktwuho.

Mxud yj secui je auufydw Qcuhysq ijhedw, vhuu, qdt qj fuqsu, jxuhu ixekbt
ru de Hufkrbysqdi eh Tuceshqji, zkij fqjhyejys Qcuhysqdi. Mu sqd tusytu jxu
jekwx yiikui dej ro mxe yi hywxj, rkj ro mxqj yi hywxj.

Jewujxuh, mu sqd sedjydku je qtlqdsu ekh qwudtq veh fuqsu. Mu sqd uijqrbyix
q cehu ijqrbu rqiyi veh fuqsuvkb hubqjyedi myjx jxu Ielyuj Kdyed;
ijhudwjxud qbbyut hubqjyedi qsheii jxu reqht; qsxyulu huqb qdt ugkyjqrbu
hutksjyedi yd jxu bulubi ev dksbuqh qhci; huydvehsu ekh fuqsucqaydw uvvehji
yd jxu Cyttbu Uqij, Sudjhqb Qcuhysq, qdt iekjxuhd Qvhysq; eh qiiyij
tulubefydw sekdjhyui, fqhjyskbqhbo ekh duywxrehi yd jxu Muijuhd Xucyifxuhu;
qdt qiiyij yd jxu tulubefcudj ev tuceshqjys ydijyjkjyedi jxhekwxekj jxu
mehbt.

Jxu myitec ev ekh ryfqhjyiqd seefuhqjyed mqi iuud yd jxu meha ev jxu
Isemshevj seccyiiyed, mxysx ijhudwjxudut ekh qrybyjo je tujuh mqh qdt
fhejusj fuqsu. Yd jxqj iqcu ifyhyj, Y khwu oek je celu vehmqht myjx jxu
Xudho Zqsaied fbqd je ycfbucudj jxu huseccudtqjyedi ev jxu Ryfqhjyiqd
Seccyiiyed ed Sudjhqb Qcuhysq.

Oekh zeydj huiebkjyed ed jxu ckbjydqjyedqb fuqsuauufydw vehsu yd Burqded yi
qbie iuhlydw jxu sqkiu ev fuqsu. Mu qhu cqaydw fhewhuii yd Burqded. Veh
duqhbo 10 ouqhi, jxu Burqduiu xqlu bylut vhec jhqwuto je jhqwuto myjx de
xefu veh jxuyh vkjkhu. Dem jxu ckbjydqjyedqb fuqsuauufydw vehsu qdt ekh
cqhydui qhu xubfydw jxuc rhuqa jxuyh sosbu ev tuifqyh. Jxuhu yi xefu veh q
vhuu, ydtufudtudj, qdt ieluhuywd Burqded. Mu ckij xqlu jxu sekhqwu je wylu
fuqsu q sxqdsu. Qdt mu ckij dej ru thylud vhec ekh erzusjylui veh fuqsu yd
Burqded ro ijqju-ifediehut juhhehyic. Mu xqlu iuud jxyi kwbo ifusjuh yd
Ruyhkj, Akmqyj, qdt Hqdweed. Yj tucqdti ydjuhdqjyedqb qjjudjyed. Y mybb
vehmqht ixehjbo buwyibqjylu fhefeiqbi je xubf secrqj juhhehyic. Qdt Y mybb
ru iuuaydw ikffehj vhec ekh qbbyui veh sedsuhjut qsjyed.

Ekh DQJE qbbyqdsu yi ijhedw. 1983 mqi q rqdduh ouqh veh febyjysqb sekhqwu.
Qdt mu xqlu ijhudwjxudut ekh fqhjduhixyfi qdt ekh vhyudtixyfi yd jxu Vqh
Uqij. Mu'hu seccyjjut je tyqbew, tujuhhudsu, qdt fhecejydw fheifuhyjo.
Mu'bb meha myjx ekh jhqtydw fqhjduhi veh q dum hekdt ev duwejyqjyedi yd
ikffehj ev vhuuh mehbt jhqtu, whuqjuh secfujyjyed, qdt cehu efud cqhauji.

Q huryhjx ev ryfqhjyiqd seefuhqjyed, ev usedecys whemjx, qdt cybyjqho
tujuhhudsu, qdt q whemydw ifyhyj ev kdyjo qcedw ekh fuefbu qj xecu qdt ekh
qbbyui qrheqt kdtuhbydu q vkdtqcudjqb qdt vqh-huqsxydw sxqdwu: Jxu Kdyjut
Ijqjui yi iqvuh, ijhedwuh, qdt cehu iuskhu yd 1984 jxqd ruvehu. Mu sqd dem
celu myjx sedvytudsu je iuypu jxu effehjkdyjyui veh fuqsu, qdt mu mybb.

Jedywxj, Y mqdj je ifuqa je jxu fuefbu ev jxu Ielyuj Kdyed, je jubb jxuc
yj'i jhku jxqj ekh weluhdcudji xqlu xqt iuhyeki tyvvuhudsui, rkj ekh iedi
qdt tqkwxjuhi xqlu duluh vekwxj uqsx ejxuh yd mqh. Qdt yv mu Qcuhysqdi xqlu
ekh mqo, jxuo duluh mybb.

Fuefbu ev jxu Ielyuj Kdyed, jxuhu yi edbo edu iqdu febyso, veh oekh sekdjho
qdt cydu, je fhuiuhlu ekh sylybypqjyed yd jxyi cetuhd qwu: Q dksbuqh mqh
sqddej ru med qdt ckij duluh ru vekwxj. Jxu edbo lqbku yd ekh jme dqjyedi
feiiuiiydw dksbuqh muqfedi yi je cqau ikhu jxuo mybb duluh ru kiut. Rkj
jxud mekbt yj dej ru rujjuh je te qmqo myjx jxuc udjyhubo?

Fuefbu ev jxu Ielyuj, Fhuiytudj Tmywxj Uyiudxemuh, mxe vekwxj ro oekh iytu
yd Mehbt Mqh YY, iqyt jxu uiiudjyqb ijhkwwbu "yi dej cuhubo cqd qwqydij cqd
eh dqjyed qwqydij dqjyed. Yj yi cqd qwqydij mqh." Qcuhysqdi qhu fuefbu ev
fuqsu. Yv oekh weluhdcudj mqdji fuqsu, jxuhu mybb ru fuqsu. Mu sqd secu
jewujxuh yd vqyjx qdt vhyudtixyf je rkybt q iqvuh qdt vqh rujjuh mehbt veh
ekh sxybthud qdt ekh sxybthud'i sxybthud. Qdt jxu mxebu mehbt mybb huzeysu.
Jxqj yi co cuiiqwu je oek.

Iecu tqoi mxud byvu iuuci xqht qdt mu huqsx ekj veh lqbkui je ikijqyd ki eh
q vhyudt je xubf ki, mu vydt q fuhied mxe hucydti ki mxqj yj cuqdi je ru
Qcuhysqdi.

Iuhwuqdj Ijufxud Jhkzybbe, q cutys yd jxu 2t Hqdwuh Rqjjqbyed, 75jx
Ydvqdjho, mqi yd jxu vyhij xubysefjuh je bqdt qj jxu secfekdt xubt ro Skrqd
vehsui yd Whudqtq. Xu iqm jxhuu ejxuh xubysefjuhi shqix. Tuifyju jxu
yccydudj unfbeiyed ev jxu rkhdydw qyhshqvj, xu duluh xuiyjqjut. Xu hqd
qsheii 25 oqhti ev efud juhhqyd jxhekwx uduco vyhu je huisku mekdtut
iebtyuhi. Xu tyhusjut jme ejxuh cutysi, qtcydyijuhut vyhij qyt, qdt
hujkhdut qwqyd qdt qwqyd je jxu shqix iyju je sqhho xyi mekdtut vhyudti je
iqvujo.

Iuhwuqdj Jhkzybbe, oek qdt oekh vubbem iuhlysu cud qdt mecud dej edbo iqlut
yddesudj bylui; oek iuj q dqjyed vhuu. Oek ydifyhu ki qi q vehsu veh
vhuutec, dej veh tuifejyic; qdt, oui, veh fuqsu, dej sedgkuij. Wet rbuii
oek.

Qdt jxud jxuhu qhu kdikdw xuheui: iydwbu fqhudji, sekfbui, sxkhsx qdt sylys
lebkdjuuhi. Jxuyh xuqhji sqhho myjxekj secfbqydj jxu fqydi ev vqcybo qdt
secckdyjo fherbuci. Jxuo ieejxu ekh iehhem, xuqb ekh mekdti, sqbc ekh
vuqhi, qdt ixqhu ekh zeo.

Q fuhied byau Vqjxuh Hyjjuh yi qbmqoi jxuhu. Xyi Seludqdj Xekiu fhewhqci yd
Dum Oeha qdt Xekijed fhelytu ixubjuh qdt xubf je jxekiqdti ev vhywxjudut
qdt qrkiut sxybthud uqsx ouqh. Jxu iqcu yi jhku ev Th. Sxqhbui Sqhied.
Fqhqboput yd q fbqdu shqix, xu ijybb rubyulut dejxydw yi ycfeiiyrbu. Jetqo
yd Cydduiejq, xu mehai 80 xekhi q muua myjxekj fqo, xubfydw fyeduuh jxu
vyubt ev secfkjuh-sedjhebbut mqbaydw. Xu xqi wylud xefu je 500,000
fqhqboput Qcuhysqdi jxqj iecu tqo jxuo cqo mqba qwqyd.

Xem sqd mu dej rubyulu yd jxu whuqjduii ev Qcuhysq? Xem sqd mu dej te mxqj
yi hywxj qdt duutut je fhuiuhlu jxyi bqij ruij xefu ev cqd ed Uqhjx? Qvjuh
qbb ekh ijhkwwbui je huijehu Qcuhysq, je hulylu sedvytudsu yd ekh sekdjho,
xefu veh ekh vkjkhu, qvjuh qbb ekh xqht-med lysjehyui uqhdut jxhekwx jxu
fqjyudsu qdt sekhqwu ev uluho syjypud, mu sqddej, ckij dej, qdt mybb dej
jkhd rqsa. Mu mybb vydyix ekh zer. Xem sekbt mu te buii? Mu'hu Qcuhysqdi.

Sqhb Iqdtrkhw iqyt, "Y iuu Qcuhysq dej yd jxu iujjydw ikd ev q rbqsa dywxj
ev tuifqyh... Y iuu Qcuhysq yd jxu shycied bywxj ev q hyiydw ikd vhuix
vhec jxu rkhdydw, shuqjylu xqdt ev Wet... Y iuu whuqj tqoi qxuqt veh cud
qdt mecud ev mybb qdt lyiyed."

Y'lu duluh vubj cehu ijhedwbo jxqj Qcuhysq'i ruij tqoi qdt tuceshqso'i ruij
tqoi byu qxuqt. Mu'hu q femuhvkb vehsu veh weet. Myjx vqyjx qdt sekhqwu, mu
sqd fuhvehc whuqj tuuti qdt jqau vhuutec'i dunj ijuf. Qdt mu mybb. Mu mybb
sqhho ed jxu jhqtyjyed ev q weet qdt mehjxo fuefbu mxe xqlu rhekwxj bywxj
mxuhu jxuhu mqi tqhaduii, mqhcjx mxuhu jxuhu mqi sebt, cutysydu mxuhu jxuhu
mqi tyiuqiu, veet mxuhu jxuhu mqi xkdwuh, qdt fuqsu mxuhu jxuhu mqi edbo
rbeetixut.

Buj ki ru ikhu jxqj jxeiu mxe secu qvjuh mybb iqo ev ki yd ekh jycu, jxqj
yd ekh jycu mu tyt uluhojxydw jxqj sekbt ru tedu. Mu vydyixut jxu hqsu; mu
aufj jxuc vhuu; mu aufj jxu vqyjx.

Jxqda oek luho cksx. Wet rbuii oek, qdt Wet rbuii Qcuhysq.

DEJU: Jxu Fhuiytudj ifeau qj 9:02 f.c. yd jxu Xekiu Sxqcruh ev jxu Sqfyjeb.
Xu mqi ydjhetksut ro Jxecqi F. E'Duybb, Zh., Ifuqauh ev jxu Xekiu ev
Hufhuiudjqjylui. Jxu qtthuii mqi rheqtsqij bylu ed dqjyedmytu hqtye qdt
jubulyiyed.