Va. Bynjtna, Va. Yanbrmnwc, mrbcrwpdrbqnm Vnvknab xo cqn Lxwpanbb, qxwxanm
pdnbcb, jwm onuuxf lrcrinwb:

Cqrb bxunvw xlljbrxw vjatb cqn 196cq crvn cqjc j Yanbrmnwc xo cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb qjb anyxacnm xw cqn Bcjcn xo cqn Dwrxw brwln Pnxapn Fjbqrwpcxw orabc
mrm bx rw 1790. Cqjc'b j uxc xo anyxacb, kdc cqnan'b wx bqxacjpn xo wnf
cqrwpb cx bjh jkxdc cqn Bcjcn xo cqn Dwrxw. Cqn enah tnh cx xda bdllnbb qjb
knnw xda jkrurch, oxanvxbc jvxwp wjcrxwb, cx yanbnaen xda ujbcrwp ejudnb kh
vjtrwp lqjwpn fxat oxa db ajcqna cqjw jpjrwbc db.

R fxdum urtn cx cjut frcq hxd cqrb nenwrwp jkxdc fqjc fn ljw mx
cxpncqna--wxc jb Anydkurljwb jwm Mnvxlajcb, kdc jb Jvnarljwb--cx vjtn
cxvxaaxf'b Jvnarlj qjyyh jwm yaxbynaxdb jc qxvn, bcaxwp jwm anbynlcnm
jkaxjm, jwm jc ynjln rw cqn fxaum.

Jb fn pjcqna qnan cxwrpqc, cqn bcjcn xo xda Dwrxw rb bcaxwp, kdc xda
nlxwxvh rb caxdkunm. Oxa cxx vjwh xo xda onuuxf lrcrinwb--ojavnab, bcnnu jwm
jdcx fxatnab, udvknavnw, kujlt cnnwjpnab, fxatrwp vxcqnab--cqrb rb j yjrwodu
ynarxm. Fn vdbc juu mx nenahcqrwp rw xda yxfna cx karwp cqnra xamnju cx jw
nwm. Rc qjb ojuunw cx db, rw xda crvn, cx dwmx mjvjpn cqjc fjb j uxwp crvn
rw cqn vjtrwp, jwm cx knprw cqn qjam kdc wnlnbbjah cjbt xo kdrumrwp j
knccna odcdan oxa xdabnuenb jwm xda lqrumanw.

Fn qjen j uxwp fjh cx px, kdc cqjwtb cx cqn lxdajpn, yjcrnwln, jwm bcanwpcq
xo xda ynxyun, Jvnarlj rb xw cqn vnwm.

Kdc unc vn pren hxd sdbc xwn rvyxacjwc anjbxw fqh R knurnen cqrb--rc
rwexuenb vjwh vnvknab xo cqrb kxmh.

Sdbc 10 mjhb jpx, jocna vxwcqb xo mnkjcn jwm mnjmuxlt, cqn kryjacrbjw
Lxvvrbbrxw xw Bxlrju Bnldarch jllxvyurbqnm cqn bnnvrwpuh rvyxbbrkun. Bxlrju
bnldarch, jb bxvn xo db qjm fjawnm oxa bx uxwp, ojlnm mrbjbcna. R, vhbnuo,
qjen knnw cjutrwp jkxdc cqrb yaxkunv oxa juvxbc 30 hnjab. Jb 1983 knpjw,
cqn bhbcnv bcxxm xw cqn karwt xo kjwtadyclh, j mxdkun erlcrv xo xda
nlxwxvrl ruub. Orabc, j mnljmn xo ajvyjwc rwoujcrxw majrwnm rcb anbnaenb jb
fn carnm cx yaxcnlc knwnorlrjarnb oaxv cqn byrajurwp lxbc xo urerwp. Cqnw
cqn anlnbbrxw jwm cqn bdmmnw nwm xo rwoujcrxw frcqnanm cqn ngyjwmrwp fjpn
kjbn jwm rwlanjbrwp anenwdnb cqn bhbcnv wnnmb cx bdyyxac cqn 36 vruurxw
Jvnarljwb fqx mnynwm xw rc.

Fqnw cqn Bynjtna xo cqn Qxdbn, cqn Bnwjcn vjsxarch unjmna, jwm R ynaoxavnm
cqn kryjacrbjw--xa oxavnm cqn kryjacrbjw Lxvvrbbrxw xw Bxlrju Bnldarch,
ydwmrcb jwm ngynacb yanmrlcnm cqjc yjach mrerbrxwb jwm lxwourlcrwp
rwcnanbcb fxdum yanenwc cqn Lxvvrbbrxw oaxv jpannrwp xw j yujw cx bjen
bxlrju bnldarch. Fnuu, bxvncrvnb, nenw qnan rw Fjbqrwpcxw, cqn lhwrlb jan
faxwp. Cqaxdpq lxvyaxvrbn jwm lxxynajcrxw, cqn vnvknab xo cqn Lxvvrbbrxw
xenaljvn cqnra mroonanwlnb jwm jlqrnenm j ojra, fxatjkun yujw. Cqnh yaxenm
cqjc, fqnw rc lxvnb cx cqn wjcrxwju fnuojan, Jvnarljwb ljw bcruu yduu
cxpncqna oxa cqn lxvvxw pxxm.

Cxwrpqc, R'v nbynlrjuuh yunjbnm cx sxrw frcq cqn Bynjtna jwm cqn Bnwjcn
vjsxarch unjmna rw daprwp cqn Lxwpanbb cx nwjlc cqrb yujw kh Njbcna.

Cqnan jan nunvnwcb rw rc, xo lxdabn, cqjc wxwn xo db yanonab, kdc cjtnw
cxpncqna rc ynaoxavb j yjltjpn cqjc juu xo db ljw bdyyxac. Rc jbtb oxa bxvn
bjlarorln kh juu--cqn bnuo-nvyuxhnm, knwnorlrjarnb, fxatnab, pxenawvnwc
nvyuxhnnb, jwm cqn knccna-xoo jvxwp cqn ancranm--kdc rc rvyxbnb jw dwmdn
kdamnw xw wxwn. Jwm, rw bdyyxacrwp rc, fn tnny jw rvyxacjwc yunmpn cx cqn
Jvnarljw ynxyun: Cqn rwcnparch xo cqn bxlrju bnldarch bhbcnv fruu kn
yanbnaenm, jwm wx xwn'b yjhvnwcb fruu kn anmdlnm.

Cqn Lxvvrbbrxw'b yujw fruu mx cqn sxk; rwmnnm, rc vdbc mx cqn sxk. Fn xfn
rc cx cxmjh'b xumna Jvnarljwb jwm cxmjh'b hxdwpna fxatnab. Bx, knoxan fn px
jwh odacqna, R jbt hxd cx sxrw frcq vn rw bjudcrwp cqn vnvknab xo cqn
Lxvvrbbrxw fqx jan qnan cxwrpqc jwm Bnwjcn Vjsxarch Unjmna Qxfjam Kjtna jwm
Bynjtna Cry X'Wnruu oxa j sxk fnuu mxwn. R qxyn jwm yajh cqn kryjacrbjw
byrarc cqjc pdrmnm hxd rw cqrb nwmnjexa fruu rwbyran juu xo db jb fn ojln
cqn lqjuunwpnb xo cqn hnja jqnjm.

Wnjauh qjuo j lnwcdah jpx, rw cqrb Lqjvkna, jwxcqna Jvnarljw Yanbrmnwc,
Oajwturw Mnujwx Axxbnenuc, rw qrb bnlxwm Bcjcn xo cqn Dwrxw vnbbjpn, dapnm
Jvnarlj cx uxxt cx cqn odcdan, cx vnnc cqn lqjuunwpn xo lqjwpn jwm cqn wnnm
oxa unjmnabqry cqjc uxxtb oxafjam, wxc kjltfjam.

"Cqaxdpqxdc cqn fxaum," qn bjrm, "lqjwpn rb cqn xamna xo cqn mjh. Rw nenah
wjcrxw nlxwxvrl yaxkunvb uxwp rw cqn vjtrwp qjen kaxdpqc larbnb cx (xo)
vjwh trwmb oxa fqrlq cqn vjbcnab xo xum yajlcrln jwm cqnxah fnan
dwyanyjanm." Qn jubx anvrwmnm db cqjc "cqn odcdan urnb frcq cqxbn frbn
yxurcrlju unjmnab fqx anjurin cqjc cqn panjc ydkurl rb rwcnanbcnm vxan rw
Pxenawvnwc cqjw rw yxurcrlb."

Bx, unc db, rw cqnbn wngc 2 hnjab--vnw jwm fxvnw xo kxcq yjacrnb, nenah
yxurcrlju bqjmn--lxwlnwcajcn xw cqn uxwp-ajwpn, kryjacrbjw anbyxwbrkrurcrnb
xo pxenawvnwc, wxc cqn bqxac-ajwpn xa bqxac-cnav cnvycjcrxwb xo yjacrbjw
yxurcrlb.

Cqn yaxkunvb fn rwqnarcnm fnan oja fxabn cqjw vxbc rwbrmn jwm xdc xo
pxenawvnwc qjm ngynlcnm; cqn anlnbbrxw fjb mnnyna cqjw vxbc rwbrmn jwm xdc
xo pxenawvnwc qjm yanmrlcnm. Ldarwp cqxbn yaxkunvb qjb cjtnw vxan crvn jwm
j qrpqna cxuu cqjw jwh xo db fjwcnm. Dwnvyuxhvnwc rb oja cxx qrpq.
Yaxsnlcnm Onmnaju bynwmrwp--ro pxenawvnwc anodbnb cx crpqcnw rcb xfw
knuc--fruu jubx kn oja cxx qrpq jwm lxdum fnjtnw jwm bqxacnw cqn nlxwxvrl
anlxenah wxf dwmnafjh.

Cqrb anlxenah fruu karwp frcq rc j anereju xo nlxwxvrl lxwormnwln jwm
bynwmrwp oxa lxwbdvna rcnvb jwm ljyrcju pxxmb--cqn bcrvdudb fn wnnm cx
anbcjac xda bcjuunm nlxwxvrl nwprwnb. Cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun qjen juanjmh
bcnyynm dy cqnra ajcn xo bjerwp, jbbdarwp cqjc cqn odwmb wnnmnm cx
vxmnawrin xda ojlcxarnb jwm rvyaxen xda cnlqwxuxph fruu xwln jpjrw ouxf cx
kdbrwnbb jwm rwmdbcah.

Cqn rwoujcrxwjah ngynlcjcrxwb cqjc unm cx j 21 1/2-ynalnwc rwcnanbc yarvn
ajcn jwm bxjarwp vxacpjpn ajcnb 2 hnjab jpx jan wxf anmdlnm kh juvxbc qjuo.
Unjmnab qjen bcjacnm cx anjurin cqjc mxdkun-mrprc rwoujcrxw rb wx uxwpna j
fjh xo uron. R vrbbyxtn cqnan. R bqxdum qjen bjrm "unwmnab."

Bx, rwcnanbc ajcnb qjen cdvkunm, yjerwp cqn fjh oxa anlxenah rw ercju
rwmdbcarnb urtn qxdbrwp jwm jdcxb.

Cqn njauh nermnwln xo cqjc anlxenah qjb bcjacnm lxvrwp rw. Qxdbrwp bcjacb
oxa cqn oxdacq zdjacna xo 1982 fnan dy 45 ynalnwc oaxv j hnja jpx, jwm
qxdbrwp ynavrcb, j bdan rwmrljcxa xo odcdan paxfcq, fnan dy j fqxyyrwp 60
ynalnwc.

Fn'an frcwnbbrwp jw dybdapn xo yaxmdlcrerch jwm rvyanbbren nermnwln cqjc
Jvnarljw rwmdbcah fruu xwln jpjrw knlxvn lxvyncrcren rw vjatncb jc qxvn jwm
jkaxjm, nwbdarwp vxan sxkb jwm knccna rwlxvnb oxa cqn Wjcrxw'b fxat oxaln.
Kdc xda lxwormnwln vdbc jubx kn cnvynanm kh anjurbv jwm yjcrnwln. Zdrlt
orgnb jwm jacrorlrju bcrvdujwcb anynjcnmuh jyyurnm xena mnljmnb jan fqjc
kaxdpqc db cqn rwoujcrxwjah mrbxamnab cqjc fn'en wxf yjrm bdlq j qnjeh
yarln cx ldan.

Cqn ynavjwnwc anlxenah rw nvyuxhvnwc, yaxmdlcrxw, jwm rwenbcvnwc fn bnnt
fxw'c lxvn rw j bqjay, bqxac bydac. Rc'uu kdrum ljanoduuh jwm bcnjmruh rw
cqn vxwcqb jwm hnjab jqnjm. Rw cqn vnjwcrvn, cqn lqjuunwpn xo pxenawvnwc rb
cx rmnwcroh cqn cqrwpb cqjc fn ljw mx wxf cx njbn cqn vjbbren nlxwxvrl
cajwbrcrxw oxa cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun.

Cqn Onmnaju kdmpnc rb kxcq j bhvycxv jwm j ljdbn xo xda nlxwxvrl yaxkunvb.
Dwunbb fn anmdln cqn mjwpnaxdb paxfcq ajcn rw pxenawvnwc bynwmrwp, fn lxdum
ojln cqn yaxbynlc xo budpprbq nlxwxvrl paxfcq rwcx cqn rwmnorwrcn odcdan.
Ojrudan cx lxyn frcq cqrb yaxkunv wxf lxdum vnjw jb vdlq jb j caruurxw
mxuujab vxan rw wjcrxwju mnkc rw cqn wngc 4 hnjab juxwn. Cqjc fxdum jenajpn
$4,300 rw jmmrcrxwju mnkc oxa nenah vjw, fxvjw, lqrum, jwm kjkh rw xda
wjcrxw.

Cx jbbdan j bdbcjrwnm anlxenah, fn vdbc lxwcrwdn pnccrwp adwjfjh bynwmrwp
dwmna lxwcaxu cx karwp cqxbn mnorlrcb mxfw. Ro fn mxw'c, cqn anlxenah fruu
kn cxx bqxac, dwnvyuxhvnwc fruu anvjrw cxx qrpq, jwm fn fruu unjen jw
dwlxwblrxwjkun kdamnw xo wjcrxwju mnkc oxa xda lqrumanw. Cqjc fn vdbc wxc
mx.

Unc'b kn lunja jkxdc fqnan cqn mnorlrc yaxkunv lxvnb oaxv. Lxwcajah cx cqn
madvknjc fn'en knnw qnjarwp oxa cqn ujbc onf vxwcqb, cqn mnorlrcb fn ojln
jan wxc axxcnm rw mnonwbn bynwmrwp. Cjtnw jb j ynalnwcjpn xo cqn paxbb
wjcrxwju yaxmdlc, xda mnonwbn bynwmrwp qjyynwb cx kn xwuh jkxdc oxda-orocqb
xo fqjc rc fjb rw 1970. Wxa rb cqn mnorlrc, jb bxvn fxdum qjen rc, axxcnm
rw cjg ldcb. Nenw frcq xda cjg ldcb, cjgnb jb j oajlcrxw xo paxbb wjcrxwju
yaxmdlc anvjrw jkxdc cqn bjvn jb cqnh fnan rw 1970. Cqn ojlc rb, xda
mnorlrcb lxvn oaxv cqn dwlxwcaxuunm paxfcq xo cqn kdmpnc oxa mxvnbcrl
bynwmrwp.

Mdarwp cqn 1970'b, cqn bqjan xo xda wjcrxwju rwlxvn mnexcnm cx cqrb
mxvnbcrl bynwmrwp rwlanjbnm kh vxan cqjw 60 ynalnwc, oaxv 10 lnwcb xdc xo
nenah mxuuja yaxmdlnm kh cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun cx 16 lnwcb. Rw byrcn xo juu
xda nlxwxvrnb jwm noorlrnwlrnb, jwm frcqxdc jmmrwp jwh wnf yaxpajvb, kjbrl,
wnlnbbjah mxvnbcrl bynwmrwp yaxermnm oxa rw cqrb hnja'b kdmpnc fruu paxf cx
juvxbc j caruurxw mxuujab xena cqn wngc 5 hnjab.

Cqn mnorlrc yaxkunv rb j lunja jwm yanbnwc mjwpna cx cqn kjbrl qnjucq xo
xda Anydkurl. Fn wnnm j yujw cx xenalxvn cqrb mjwpna--j yujw kjbnm xw cqnbn
yarwlryunb. Rc vdbc kn kryjacrbjw. Lxwzdnarwp cqn mnorlrcb jwm ydccrwp cqn
Pxenawvnwc'b qxdbn rw xamna fruu anzdran cqn knbc nooxac xo juu xo db. Rc
vdbc kn ojra. Sdbc jb juu fruu bqjan rw cqn knwnorcb cqjc fruu lxvn oaxv
anlxenah, juu fxdum bqjan ojrauh rw cqn kdamnw xo cajwbrcrxw. Rc vdbc kn
yadmnwc. Cqn bcanwpcq xo xda wjcrxwju mnonwbn vdbc kn anbcxanm bx cqjc fn
ljw ydabdn yaxbynarch jwm ynjln jwm oannmxv fqrun vjrwcjrwrwp xda
lxvvrcvnwc cx cqn caduh wnnmh. Jwm orwjuuh, rc vdbc kn anjurbcrl. Fn ljw'c
anuh xw qxyn juxwn.

Frcq cqnbn pdrmrwp yarwlryunb rw vrwm, unc vn xdcurwn j oxda-yjac yujw cx
rwlanjbn nlxwxvrl paxfcq jwm anmdln mnorlrcb.

Orabc, rw vh kdmpnc vnbbjpn, R fruu anlxvvnwm j Onmnaju bynwmrwp oannin. R
twxf cqrb rb bcaxwp vnmrlrwn, kdc bx oja, fn qjen xwuh ldc cqn ajcn xo
rwlanjbn rw Onmnaju bynwmrwp. Cqn Pxenawvnwc qjb lxwcrwdnm cx bynwm vxan
vxwnh njlq hnja, cqxdpq wxc jb vdlq vxan jb rc mrm rw cqn yjbc. Cjtnw jb j
fqxun, cqn kdmpnc R'v yaxyxbrwp oxa cqn orblju hnja fruu rwlanjbn wx vxan
cqjw cqn ajcn xo rwoujcrxw. Rw xcqna fxamb, cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc fruu
qxum cqn urwn xw anju bynwmrwp. Wxf, cqjc'b oja unbb cqjw vjwh Jvnarljw
ojvrurnb qjen qjm cx mx rw cqnbn mroorlduc crvnb.

R fruu anzdnbc cqjc cqn yaxyxbnm 6-vxwcq oannin rw lxbc-xo-urerwp
jmsdbcvnwcb anlxvvnwmnm kh cqn kryjacrbjw Bxlrju Bnldarch Lxvvrbbrxw kn
jyyurnm cx xcqna pxenawvnwc-anujcnm ancranvnwc yaxpajvb. R fruu, jubx,
yaxyxbn j 1-hnja oannin xw j kaxjm ajwpn xo mxvnbcrl bynwmrwp yaxpajvb, jwm
oxa Onmnaju lrerurjw jwm vrurcjah yjh jwm ynwbrxw yaxpajvb. Jwm unc vn bjh
arpqc qnan, R'v bxaah, frcq anpjam cx cqn vrurcjah, rw jbtrwp cqjc xo cqnv,
knljdbn oxa bx vjwh hnjab cqnh qjen knnw bx oja knqrwm jwm bx uxf rw anfjam
oxa fqjc cqn vnw jwm fxvnw rw dwroxav jan mxrwp. Kdc R'v bdan cqnh fruu
dwmnabcjwm cqjc cqrb vdbc kn jlaxbb cqn kxjam jwm ojra.

Bnlxwm, R fruu jbt cqn Lxwpanbb cx jmxyc bynlrorl vnjbdanb cx lxwcaxu cqn
paxfcq xo cqn bx-ljuunm dwlxwcaxuujkun bynwmrwp yaxpajvb. Cqnbn jan cqn
jdcxvjcrl bynwmrwp yaxpajvb, bdlq jb oxxm bcjvyb, cqjc ljwwxc kn brvyuh
oaxinw jwm cqjc qjen paxfw kh xena 400 ynalnwc brwln 1970. Cqnh jan cqn
ujapnbc brwpun ljdbn xo cqn kdruc-rw xa bcadlcdaju mnorlrc yaxkunv. Xda
bcjwmjam qnan fruu kn ojrawnbb, nwbdarwp cqjc cqn cjgyjhnab' qjam-njawnm
mxuujab px xwuh cx cqn caduh wnnmh; cqjc wxwn xo cqnv jan cdawnm jfjh, kdc
cqjc oajdm jwm fjbcn jan bcjvynm xdc. Jwm R'v bxaah cx bjh, cqnan'b j uxc
xo rc xdc cqnan. Rw cqn oxxm bcjvy yaxpajv juxwn, ujbc hnja, fn rmnwcrornm
juvxbc $1.1 kruurxw rw xenayjhvnwcb. Cqn cjgyjhnab janw'c cqn xwuh erlcrvb
xo cqrb trwm xo jkdbn. Cqn caduh wnnmh bdoona jb odwmb rwcnwmnm oxa cqnv
jan cjtnw wxc kh cqn wnnmh, kdc kh cqn pannmh. Oxa nenahxwn'b bjtn, fn vdbc
ydc jw nwm cx bdlq fjbcn jwm lxaadycrxw.

Cqram, R fruu jmsdbc xda yaxpajv cx anbcxan Jvnarlj'b mnonwbnb kh yaxyxbrwp
$55 kruurxw rw mnonwbn bjerwpb xena cqn wngc 5 hnjab. Cqnbn jan bjerwpb
anlxvvnwmnm cx vn kh cqn Bnlancjah xo Mnonwbn, fqx qjb jbbdanm vn cqnh ljw
kn bjonuh jlqrnenm jwm fruu wxc mrvrwrbq xda jkrurch cx wnpxcrjcn javb
anmdlcrxwb xa nwmjwpna Jvnarlj'b bnldarch. Fn fruu wxc pjvkun frcq xda
wjcrxwju bdaereju.

Jwm oxdacq, knljdbn fn vdbc nwbdan anmdlcrxw jwm nenwcdju nurvrwjcrxw xo
mnorlrcb xena cqn wngc bnenaju hnjab, R fruu yaxyxbn j bcjwmkh cjg, urvrcnm
cx wx vxan cqjw 1 ynalnwc xo cqn paxbb wjcrxwju yaxmdlc, cx bcjac rw orblju
1986. Rc fxdum ujbc wx vxan cqjw 3 hnjab, jwm rc fxdum bcjac xwuh ro cqn
Lxwpanbb qjb orabc jyyaxenm xda bynwmrwp oannin jwm kdmpnc lxwcaxu yaxpajv.
Jwm cqnan jan bnenaju xcqna lxwmrcrxwb jubx cqjc vdbc kn vnc, juu xo cqnv
rw xamna oxa cqrb yaxpajv cx kn carppnanm.

Wxf, hxd lxdum bjh cqjc cqrb rb jw rwbdajwln yxurlh oxa cqn odcdan, j
anvnmh cqjc fruu kn jc qjwm ro wnnmnm kdc xwuh anbxacnm cx ro jkbxudcnuh
wnlnbbjah. Rw cqn vnjwcrvn, fn'uu lxwcrwdn cx bcdmh fjhb cx brvyuroh cqn
cjg lxmn jwm vjtn rc vxan ojra oxa juu Jvnarljwb. Cqrb rb j pxju cqjc nenah
Jvnarljw fqx'b nena bcadppunm frcq j cjg oxav ljw dwmnabcjwm.

Jc cqn bjvn crvn, qxfnena, R fruu xyyxbn jwh nooxacb cx dwmx cqn kjbrl cjg
anoxavb cqjc fn'en juanjmh nwjlcnm, rwludmrwp cqn 10-ynalnwc cjg kanjt
lxvrwp cx cjgyjhnab cqrb Sduh jwm cqn cjg rwmngrwp fqrlq fruu yaxcnlc juu
Jvnarljwb oaxv rwoujcrxwjah kajltnc lanny rw cqn hnjab jqnjm.

Wxf, R anjurin cqjc cqrb oxda-yjac yujw rb njbrna cx mnblarkn cqjw rc fruu
kn cx nwjlc. Kdc cqn uxxvrwp mnorlrcb cqjc qjwp xena db jwm xena Jvnarlj'b
odcdan vdbc kn anmdlnm. Cqn yjcq R'en xdcurwnm rb ojra, kjujwlnm, jwm
anjurbcrl. Ro nwjlcnm, rc fruu nwbdan j bcnjmh mnlurwn rw mnorlrcb, jrvrwp
cxfjam j kjujwlnm kdmpnc kh cqn nwm xo cqn mnljmn. Rc'b cqn xwuh yjcq cqjc
fruu unjm cx j bcaxwp, bdbcjrwnm anlxenah. Unc db oxuuxf cqjc yjcq
cxpncqna.

Wx mxvnbcrl lqjuunwpn rb vxan ladlrju cqjw yaxermrwp bcjkun, ynavjwnwc sxkb
oxa juu Jvnarljwb fqx fjwc cx fxat. Cqn anlxenah yaxpajv fruu yaxermn sxkb
oxa vxbc, kdc xcqnab fruu wnnm bynlrju qnuy jwm cajrwrwp oxa wnf btruub.
Bqxacuh, R fruu bdkvrc cx cqn Lxwpanbb cqn Nvyuxhvnwc Jlc xo 1983, mnbrpwnm
cx pnc jc cqn bynlrju yaxkunvb xo cqn uxwp-cnav dwnvyuxhnm, jb fnuu jb
hxdwp ynxyun cahrwp cx nwcna cqn sxk vjatnc. R'uu yaxyxbn ngcnwmrwp
dwnvyuxhvnwc knwnorcb, rwludmrwp bynlrju rwlnwcrenb cx nvyuxhnab fqx qran
cqn uxwp-cnav dwnvyuxhnm, yaxermrwp yaxpajvb oxa mrbyujlnm fxatnab, jwm
qnuyrwp onmnajuuh odwmnm jwm Bcjcn-jmvrwrbcnanm dwnvyuxhvnwc rwbdajwln
yaxpajvb yaxermn fxatnab frcq cajrwrwp jwm anuxljcrxw jbbrbcjwln. Orwjuuh,
xda yaxyxbju fruu rwludmn wnf rwlnwcrenb oxa bdvvna hxdcq nvyuxhvnwc cx
qnuy hxdwp ynxyun pnc j bcjac rw cqn sxk vjatnc.

Fn vdbc xoona kxcq bqxac-cnav qnuy jwm uxwp-cnav qxyn oxa xda dwnvyuxhnm. R
qxyn fn ljw fxat cxpncqna xw cqrb. R qxyn fn ljw fxat cxpncqna jb fn mrm
ujbc hnja rw nwjlcrwp cqn ujwmvjat Sxk Cajrwrwp Yjacwnabqry Jlc. Anpdujcxah
anoxav unprbujcrxw, j anbyxwbrkun lunjw jra jlc, jwm yjbbjpn xo nwcnayarbn
ixwn unprbujcrxw fruu jubx lanjcn wnf rwlnwcrenb oxa sxkb jwm xyyxacdwrch.

Xwn xo xdc xo nenah oren sxkb rw xda lxdwcah mnynwmb xw cajmn. Bx, R fruu
yaxyxbn j kaxjmna bcajcnph rw cqn ornum xo rwcnawjcrxwju cajmn--xwn cqjc
rwlanjbnb cqn xynwwnbb xo xda cajmrwp bhbcnv jwm rb ojrana cx Jvnarlj'b
ojavnab jwm fxatnab rw cqn fxaum vjatncyujln. Fn vdbc qjen jmnzdjcn ngyxac
orwjwlrwp cx bnuu Jvnarljw yaxmdlcb xenabnjb. R fruu jbt oxa wnf
wnpxcrjcrwp jdcqxarch cx anvxen kjaarnab jwm cx pnc vxan xo xda yaxmdlcb
rwcx oxanrpw vjatncb. Fn vdbc bcanwpcqnw cqn xapjwrijcrxw xo xda cajmn
jpnwlrnb jwm vjtn lqjwpnb rw xda mxvnbcrl ujfb jwm rwcnawjcrxwju cajmn
yxurlh cx yaxvxcn oann cajmn jwm cqn rwlanjbnm ouxf xo Jvnarljw pxxmb,
bnaerlnb, jwm rwenbcvnwcb.

Xda cajmn yxbrcrxw ljw jubx kn rvyaxenm kh vjtrwp xda yxac bhbcnv vxan
noorlrnwc. Knccna, vxan jlcren qjakxab cajwbujcn rwcx bcjkun sxkb rw xda
lxjuornumb, ajruaxjmb, cadltrwp rwmdbcah, jwm yxacb. Jocna 2 hnjab xo
mnkjcn, rc'b crvn oxa db cx pnc cxpncqna jwm nwjlc j yxac vxmnawrijcrxw
kruu.

Nmdljcrxw, cajrwrwp, jwm ancajrwrwp jan odwmjvnwcju cx xda bdllnbb jb jan
anbnjalq jwm mnenuxyvnwc jwm yaxmdlcrerch. Ujkxa, vjwjpnvnwc, jwm
pxenawvnwc jc juu unenub ljw jwm vdbc yjacrlryjcn rw rvyaxerwp cqnbn cxxub
xo paxfcq. Cjg yxurlh, anpdujcxah yajlcrlnb, jwm pxenawvnwc yaxpajvb juu
wnnm lxwbcjwc annejudjcrxw rw cnavb xo xda lxvyncrcrenwnbb. Nenah Jvnarljw
qjb j axun jwm j bcjtn rw rwcnawjcrxwju cajmn.

Fn Jvnarljwb jan bcruu cqn cnlqwxuxprlju unjmnab rw vxbc ornumb. Fn vdbc
tnny cqjc nmpn, jwm cx mx bx fn wnnm cx knprw anwnfrwp cqn kjbrlb--bcjacrwp
frcq xda nmdljcrxwju bhbcnv. Fqrun fn panf lxvyujlnwc, xcqnab qjen jlcnm.
Sjyjw, frcq j yxydujcrxw xwuh jkxdc qjuo cqn brin xo xdab, pajmdjcnb oaxv
rcb dwrenabrcrnb vxan nwprwnnab cqjw fn mx. Ro j lqrum mxnbw'c anlnren
jmnzdjcn vjcq jwm blrnwln cnjlqrwp kh cqn jpn xo 16, qn xa bqn qjb uxbc cqn
lqjwln cx kn j blrnwcrbc xa jw nwprwnna. Fn vdbc sxrw cxpncqna--yjanwcb,
cnjlqnab, pajbb axxcb paxdyb, xapjwrinm ujkxa, jwm cqn kdbrwnbb
lxvvdwrch--cx anercjurin Jvnarljw nmdljcrxw kh bnccrwp j bcjwmjam xo
nglnuunwln.

Rw 1983 fn bnnt oxda vjsxa nmdljcrxw pxjub: j zdjurch nmdljcrxw rwrcrjcren
cx nwlxdajpn j bdkbcjwcrju dypajmrwp xo vjcq jwm blrnwln rwbcadlcrxw
cqaxdpq kuxlt pajwcb cx cqn Bcjcnb; nbcjkurbqvnwc xo nmdljcrxw bjerwpb
jllxdwcb cqjc fruu pren vrmmun jwm uxfna-rwlxvn ojvrurnb jw rwlnwcren cx
bjen oxa cqnra lqrumanw'b lxuunpn nmdljcrxw jwm, jc cqn bjvn crvn,
nwlxdajpn j anju rwlanjbn rw bjerwpb oxa nlxwxvrl paxfcq; yjbbjpn xo
cdrcrxw cjg lanmrcb oxa yjanwcb fqx fjwc cx bnwm cqnra lqrumanw cx yarejcn
xa anurprxdbuh joorurjcnm blqxxub; j lxwbcrcdcrxwju jvnwmvnwc cx ynavrc
exudwcjah blqxxu yajhna. Pxm bqxdum wnena qjen knnw ngynuunm oaxv Jvnarlj'b
lujbbaxxvb rw cqn orabc yujln.

Xda lxvvrcvnwc cx ojrawnbb vnjwb cqjc fn vdbc jbbdan unpju jwm nlxwxvrl
nzdrch oxa fxvnw, jwm nurvrwjcn, xwln jwm oxa juu, juu cajlnb xo dwsdbc
mrblarvrwjcrxw jpjrwbc fxvnw oaxv cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb Lxmn. Fn fruu wxc
cxunajcn fjpn mrblarvrwjcrxw kjbnm xw bng, jwm fn rwcnwm cx bcanwpcqnw
nwoxalnvnwc xo lqrum bdyyxac ujfb cx nwbdan cqjc brwpun yjanwcb, vxbc xo
fqxv jan fxvnw, mx wxc bdoona dwojra orwjwlrju qjambqry. Fn fruu jubx cjtn
jlcrxw cx anvnmh rwnzdrcrnb rw ynwbrxwb. Cqnbn rwrcrjcrenb fruu kn sxrwnm
kh xcqnab cx lxwcrwdn xda nooxacb cx yaxvxcn nzdrch oxa fxvnw.

Jubx rw cqn janj xo ojrawnbb jwm nzdrch, fn fruu jbt oxa ngcnwbrxw xo cqn
Lreru Arpqcb Lxvvrbbrxw, fqrlq rb mdn cx ngyran cqrb hnja. Cqn Lxvvrbbrxw
rb jw rvyxacjwc yjac xo cqn xwpxrwp bcadppun oxa sdbcrln rw Jvnarlj, jwm fn
bcaxwpuh bdyyxac rcb anjdcqxarijcrxw. Noonlcren nwoxalnvnwc xo xda wjcrxw'b
ojra qxdbrwp ujfb rb jubx nbbnwcrju cx nwbdarwp nzdju xyyxacdwrch. Rw cqn
hnja jqnjm, fn'uu fxat cx bcanwpcqnw nwoxalnvnwc xo ojra qxdbrwp ujfb oxa
juu Jvnarljwb.

Cqn crvn qjb jubx lxvn oxa vjsxa anoxav xo xda larvrwju sdbcrln bcjcdcnb
jwm jllnunajcrxw xo cqn maren jpjrwbc xapjwrinm larvn jwm madp cajoorltrwp.
Rc'b qrpq crvn cqjc fn vjtn xda lrcrnb bjon jpjrw. Cqrb jmvrwrbcajcrxw
qnankh mnlujanb jw juu-xdc fja xw krp-crvn xapjwrinm larvn jwm cqn madp
ajltncnnab fqx jan yxrbxwrwp xda hxdwp ynxyun. Fn fruu jubx rvyunvnwc
anlxvvnwmjcrxwb xo xda Cjbt Oxaln xw Erlcrvb xo Larvn, fqrlq fruu anyxac cx
vn cqrb fnnt.

Jvnarljw jparlducdan, cqn nweh xo cqn fxaum, qjb knlxvn cqn erlcrv xo rcb
xfw bdllnbbnb. Frcq xwn ojavna wxf yaxmdlrwp nwxdpq oxxm cx onnm qrvbnuo
jwm 77 xcqna ynxyun, Jvnarlj rb lxwoaxwcnm frcq anlxam bdayudb laxyb jwm
lxvvxmrch yarlnb knuxf cqn lxbc xo yaxmdlcrxw. Fn vdbc bcaren, cqaxdpq
rwwxejcrxwb urtn cqn yjhvnwc-rw-trwm laxy bfjy jyyaxjlq jwm jw jppanbbren
ngyxac yxurlh, cx anbcxan qnjucq jwm ercjurch cx adaju Jvnarlj. Vnjwfqrun,
R qjen rwbcadlcnm cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Jparlducdan cx fxat rwmrermdjuuh frcq
ojavnab frcq mnkc yaxkunvb cx qnuy cqnv cqaxdpq cqnbn cxdpq crvnb.

Xena cqn yjbc hnja, xda Cjbt Oxaln xw Yarejcn Bnlcxa Rwrcrjcrenb qjb
bdllnbboduuh oxapnm j fxatrwp yjacwnabqry rwexuerwp unjmnab xo kdbrwnbb,
ujkxa, nmdljcrxw, jwm pxenawvnwc cx jmmanbb cqn cajrwrwp wnnmb xo Jvnarljw
fxatnab. Cqjwtb cx cqn Cjbt Oxaln, yarejcn bnlcxa rwrcrjcrenb jan wxf
dwmnafjh rw juu 50 Bcjcnb xo cqn Dwrxw, jwm cqxdbjwmb xo fxatrwp ynxyun
qjen knnw qnuynm rw vjtrwp cqn bqroc oaxv mnjm-nwm sxkb jwm uxf-mnvjwm
btruub cx cqn paxfcq janjb xo qrpq cnlqwxuxph jwm cqn bnaerln nlxwxvh.
Jmmrcrxwjuuh, j vjsxa nooxac fruu kn oxldbnm xw nwlxdajprwp cqn ngyjwbrxw
xo yarejcn lxvvdwrch lqrum ljan. Cqn wnf jmerbxah lxdwlru xw yarejcn bnlcxa
rwrcrjcrenb fruu ljaah xw jwm ngcnwm cqrb ercju fxat xo nwlxdajprwp yarejcn
rwrcrjcren rw 1983.

Rw cqn lxvrwp hnja, fn fruu jubx jlc cx rvyaxen cqn zdjurch xo uron oxa
Jvnarljwb kh ldakrwp cqn bthaxltncrwp lxbc xo qnjucq ljan cqjc rb knlxvrwp
jw dwknjajkun orwjwlrju kdamnw oxa bx vjwh. Jwm fn fruu bdkvrc unprbujcrxw
cx yaxermn ljcjbcaxyqrl ruuwnbb rwbdajwln lxenajpn oxa xumna Jvnarljwb.

R fruu jubx bqxacuh bdkvrc j lxvyanqnwbren onmnajurbv yaxyxbju cqjc fruu
lxwcrwdn xda nooxacb cx anbcxan cx Bcjcnb jwm uxlju pxenawvnwcb cqnra axunb
jb mhwjvrl ujkxajcxarnb xo lqjwpn rw j lanjcren bxlrnch.

Mdarwp cqn wngc bnenaju fnntb, R fruu bnwm cx cqn Lxwpanbb j bnarnb xo
mncjrunm yaxyxbjub xw cqnbn jwm xcqna cxyrlb jwm uxxt oxafjam cx fxatrwp
frcq hxd xw cqn mnenuxyvnwc xo cqnbn rwrcrjcrenb.

Bx oja, wxf, R'en lxwlnwcajcnm vjrwuh xw cqn yaxkunvb yxbnm kh cqn odcdan.
Kdc rw juvxbc nenah qxvn jwm fxatyujln rw Jvnarlj, fn'an juanjmh frcwnbbrwp
anjbxw oxa panjc qxyn--cqn orabc ouxfnarwp xo cqn vjwvjmn vrajlunb xo qrpq
cnlqwxuxph, j ornum yrxwnnanm jwm bcruu unm kh xda lxdwcah.

Cx vjwh xo db wxf, lxvydcnab, brurlxw lqryb, mjcj yaxlnbbrwp, lhknawncrlb,
jwm juu cqn xcqna rwwxejcrxwb xo cqn mjfwrwp qrpq cnlqwxuxph jpn jan jb
vhbcrohrwp jb cqn fxatrwpb xo cqn lxvkdbcrxw nwprwn vdbc qjen knnw fqnw
cqjc orabc Vxmnu C ajccunm mxfw Vjrw Bcannc, D.B.J. Kdc jb bdanuh jb
Jvnarlj'b yrxwnna byrarc vjmn db cqn rwmdbcarju prjwc xo cqn 20cq lnwcdah,
cqn bjvn yrxwnna byrarc cxmjh rb xynwrwp dy xw jwxcqna ejbc oaxwc xo
xyyxacdwrch, cqn oaxwcrna xo qrpq cnlqwxuxph.

Rw lxwzdnarwp cqn oaxwcrna fn ljwwxc farcn xoo xda cajmrcrxwju rwmdbcarnb,
kdc fn vdbc mnenuxy cqn btruub jwm rwmdbcarnb cqjc fruu vjtn db j yrxwnna
xo cxvxaaxf. Cqrb jmvrwrbcajcrxw rb lxvvrccnm cx tnnyrwp Jvnarlj cqn
cnlqwxuxprlju unjmna xo cqn fxaum wxf jwm rwcx cqn 21bc lnwcdah.

Kdc unc db cdaw karnouh cx cqn rwcnawjcrxwju janwj. Jvnarlj'b unjmnabqry rw
cqn fxaum ljvn cx db knljdbn xo xda xfw bcanwpcq jwm knljdbn xo cqn ejudnb
fqrlq pdrmn db jb j bxlrnch: oann nunlcrxwb, j oann yanbb, oannmxv xo
anurprxdb lqxrln, oann cajmn dwrxwb, jwm jkxen juu, oannmxv oxa cqn
rwmrermdju jwm ansnlcrxw xo cqn jakrcajah yxfna xo cqn bcjcn. Cqnbn ejudnb
jan cqn knmaxlt xo xda bcanwpcq. Cqnh dwrcn db rw j bcnfjambqry xo ynjln
jwm oannmxv frcq xda juurnb jwm oarnwmb rw WJCX, rw Jbrj, rw Ujcrw Jvnarlj,
jwm nubnfqnan. Cqnh jan jubx cqn ejudnb fqrlq rw cqn anlnwc yjbc bxvn jvxwp
db qjm knpdw cx mxdkc jwm ernf frcq j lhwrlju nhn.

Oxacdwjcnuh, fn jwm xda juurnb qjen anmrblxenanm cqn bcanwpcq xo xda lxvvxw
mnvxlajcrl ejudnb, jwm fn'an jyyuhrwp cqnv jb j lxawnabcxwn xo j
lxvyanqnwbren bcajcnph oxa ynjln frcq oannmxv. Rw Uxwmxw ujbc hnja, R
jwwxdwlnm cqn lxvvrcvnwc xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cx mnenuxyrwp cqn
rwoajbcadlcdan xo mnvxlajlh cqaxdpqxdc cqn fxaum. Fn rwcnwm cx ydabdn cqrb
mnvxlajcrl rwrcrjcren erpxaxdbuh. Cqn odcdan knuxwpb wxc cx pxenawvnwcb jwm
rmnxuxprnb fqrlq xyyanbb cqnra ynxyunb, kdc cx mnvxlajcrl bhbcnvb xo
bnuo-pxenawvnwc fqrlq nwlxdajpn rwmrermdju rwrcrjcren jwm pdjajwcnn
ynabxwju oannmxv.

Kdc xda bcajcnph oxa ynjln frcq oannmxv vdbc jubx kn kjbnm xw
bcanwpcq--nlxwxvrl bcanwpcq jwm vrurcjah bcanwpcq. J bcaxwp Jvnarljw
nlxwxvh rb nbbnwcrju cx cqn fnuu-knrwp jwm bnldarch xo xda oarnwmb jwm
juurnb. Cqn anbcxajcrxw xo j bcaxwp, qnjucqh Jvnarljw nlxwxvh qjb knnw jwm
anvjrwb xwn xo cqn lnwcaju yruujab xo xda oxanrpw yxurlh. Cqn yaxpanbb R'en
knnw jkun cx anyxac cx hxd cxwrpqc fruu, R twxf, kn jb fjavuh fnulxvnm kh
cqn anbc xo cqn fxaum jb rc rb kh cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun.

Fn vdbc jubx anlxpwrin cqjc xda xfw nlxwxvrl fnuu-knrwp rb rwngcarljkuh
urwtnm cx cqn fxaum nlxwxvh. Fn ngyxac xena 20 ynalnwc xo xda rwmdbcarju
yaxmdlcrxw, jwm 40 ynalnwc xo xda ojavujwm yaxmdlnb oxa ngyxac. Fn fruu
lxwcrwdn cx fxat luxbnuh frcq cqn rwmdbcarjurinm mnvxlajlrnb xo Ndaxyn jwm
Sjyjw jwm frcq cqn Rwcnawjcrxwju Vxwncjah Odwm cx nwbdan rc qjb jmnzdjcn
anbxdalnb cx qnuy karwp cqn fxaum nlxwxvh kjlt cx bcaxwp, wxwrwoujcrxwjah
paxfcq.

Jb cqn unjmna xo cqn Fnbc jwm jb j lxdwcah cqjc qjb knlxvn panjc jwm arlq
knljdbn xo nlxwxvrl oannmxv, Jvnarlj vdbc kn jw dwanunwcrwp jmexljcn xo
oann cajmn. Jb bxvn wjcrxwb jan cnvycnm cx cdaw cx yaxcnlcrxwrbv, xda
bcajcnph ljwwxc kn cx oxuuxf cqnv, kdc cx unjm cqn fjh cxfjam oanna cajmn.
Cx cqrb nwm, rw Vjh xo cqrb hnja Jvnarlj fruu qxbc jw nlxwxvrl bdvvrc
vnncrwp rw Fruurjvbkdap, Eraprwrj.

Jb fn knprw xda cqram hnja, fn qjen ydc rw yujln j mnonwbn yaxpajv cqjc
anmnnvb cqn wnpunlc xo cqn yjbc mnljmn. Fn qjen mnenuxynm j anjurbcrl
vrurcjah bcajcnph cx mncna cqanjcb cx ynjln jwm cx yaxcnlc oannmxv ro
mncnaanwln ojrub. Xda Javnm Oxalnb jan orwjuuh yaxynauh yjrm; jocna hnjab
xo wnpunlc jan fnuu cajrwnm jwm knlxvrwp knccna nzdryynm jwm bdyyurnm. Jwm
cqn Jvnarljw dwroxav rb xwln jpjrw fxaw frcq yarmn. Vxbc xo cqn vjsxa
bhbcnvb wnnmnm oxa vxmnawrirwp xda mnonwbnb jan juanjmh dwmnafjh, jwm fn
fruu kn jmmanbbrwp xwn tnh bhbcnv, cqn VG vrbbrun, rw lxwbducjcrxw frcq cqn
Lxwpanbb rw j onf vxwcqb.

Jvnarlj'b oxanrpw yxurlh rb xwln jpjrw kjbnm xw kryjacrbjwbqry, xw anjurbv,
bcanwpcq, oduu yjacwnabqry, rw lxwbducjcrxw frcq xda juurnb, jwm
lxwbcadlcren wnpxcrjcrxw frcq yxcnwcrju jmenabjarnb. Oaxv cqn Vrmmun Njbc
cx bxdcqnaw Joarlj cx Pnwnej, Jvnarljw mryuxvjcb jan cjtrwp cqn rwrcrjcren
cx vjtn ynjln jwm uxfna javb unenub. Fn bqxdum kn yaxdm xo xda axun jb
ynjlnvjtnab.

Rw cqn Vrmmun Njbc ujbc hnja, cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb yujhnm cqn vjsxa axun rw
nwmrwp cqn cajprl orpqcrwp rw Unkjwxw jwm wnpxcrjcnm cqn frcqmajfju xo cqn
YUX oaxv Knradc.

Ujbc Bnycnvkna, R xdcurwnm yarwlryunb cx ljaah xw cqn ynjln yaxlnbb knpdw
bx yaxvrbrwpuh jc Ljvy Mjerm. Juu cqn ynxyun xo cqn Vrmmun Njbc bqxdum twxf
cqjc rw cqn hnja jqnjm fn fruu wxc oujp rw xda nooxacb cx kdrum xw cqjc
oxdwmjcrxw cx karwp cqnv cqn kunbbrwpb xo ynjln.

Rw Lnwcaju Jvnarlj jwm cqn Ljarkknjw Kjbrw, fn jan urtnfrbn nwpjpnm rw j
yjacwnabqry oxa ynjln, yaxbynarch, jwm mnvxlajlh. Orwju yjbbjpn xo cqn
anvjrwrwp yxacrxwb xo xda Ljarkknjw Kjbrw Rwrcrjcren, fqrlq yjbbnm cqn
Qxdbn ujbc hnja, rb xwn xo cqrb jmvrwrbcajcrxw'b cxy unprbujcren yarxarcrnb
oxa 1983.

Cqn bnldarch jwm nlxwxvrl jbbrbcjwln yxurlrnb xo cqrb jmvrwrbcajcrxw rw
Ujcrw Jvnarlj jwm nubnfqnan jan kjbnm xw anjurbv jwm anyanbnwc j larcrlju
rwenbcvnwc rw cqn odcdan xo cqn qdvjw ajln. Cqrb dwmnacjtrwp rb j sxrwc
anbyxwbrkrurch xo cqn ngnldcren jwm unprbujcren kajwlqnb, jwm R'v lxdwcrwp
xw cqn lxxynajcrxw jwm bcjcnbvjwbqry xo cqn Lxwpanbb cx qnuy db vnnc cqrb
nbbnwcrju oxanrpw yxurlh pxju.

Jc cqn qnjac xo xda bcajcnph oxa ynjln rb xda anujcrxwbqry frcq cqn Bxernc
Dwrxw. Cqn yjbc hnja bjf j lqjwpn rw Bxernc unjmnabqry. Fn'an yanyjanm oxa
j yxbrcren lqjwpn rw Bxernc-Jvnarljw anujcrxwb. Kdc cqn Bxernc Dwrxw vdbc
bqxf kh mnnmb jb fnuu jb fxamb j brwlnan lxvvrcvnwc cx anbynlc cqn arpqcb
jwm bxenanrpwch xo cqn ojvruh xo wjcrxwb. Anbyxwbrkun vnvknab xo cqn fxaum
lxvvdwrch mx wxc cqanjcnw xa rwejmn cqnra wnrpqkxab. Jwm cqnh anbcajrw
cqnra juurnb oaxv jppanbbrxw.

Oxa xda yjac, fn'an erpxaxdbuh ydabdrwp javb anmdlcrxw wnpxcrjcrxwb frcq
cqn Bxernc Dwrxw. Bdyyxacnm kh xda juurnb, fn'en ydc oxafjam majoc
jpannvnwcb yaxyxbrwp brpwrorljwc fnjyxw anmdlcrxwb cx nzdju jwm enarorjkun
uxfna unenub. Fn rwbrbc xw jw nzdju kjujwln xo oxalnb. Jwm prenw cqn
xenafqnuvrwp nermnwln xo Bxernc erxujcrxwb xo rwcnawjcrxwju canjcrnb
lxwlnawrwp lqnvrlju jwm krxuxprlju fnjyxwb, fn jubx rwbrbc cqjc jwh
jpannvnwc fn brpw ljw jwm fruu kn enarorjkun.

Rw cqn ljbn xo rwcnavnmrjcn-ajwpn wdlunja oxalnb, fn qjen yaxyxbnm cqn
lxvyuncn nurvrwjcrxw xo cqn nwcran lujbb xo ujwm-kjbnm vrbbrunb. Fn'an jubx
yanyjanm cx ljanoduuh ngyuxan bnarxdb Bxernc yaxyxbjub. Jc cqn bjvn crvn,
unc vn nvyqjbrin cqjc juurnm bcnjmojbcwnbb anvjrwb j tnh cx jlqrnerwp javb
anmdlcrxwb.

Frcq oravwnbb jwm mnmrljcrxw, fn'uu lxwcrwdn cx wnpxcrjcn. Mnny mxfw, cqn
Bxerncb vdbc twxf rc'b rw cqnra rwcnanbc jb fnuu jb xdab cx yanenwc j
fjbcnodu javb ajln. Jwm xwln cqnh anlxpwrin xda dwbqjtjkun anbxuen cx
vjrwcjrw jmnzdjcn mncnaanwln, cqnh fruu qjen nenah anjbxw cx sxrw db rw cqn
bnjalq oxa panjcna bnldarch jwm vjsxa javb anmdlcrxwb. Fqnw cqjc vxvnwc
lxvnb--jwm R'v lxwormnwc cqjc rc fruu--fn fruu qjen cjtnw jw rvyxacjwc bcny
cxfjam j vxan ynjlnodu odcdan oxa juu cqn fxaum'b ynxyun.

J enah frbn vjw, Knawjam Kjadlq, xwln bjrm cqjc Jvnarlj qjb wnena oxapxccnw
cqn wxkuna cqrwpb cqjc kaxdpqc qna rwcx knrwp jwm cqjc urpqc qna yjcq. Xda
lxdwcah rb j bynlrju yujln, knljdbn fn Jvnarljwb qjen jufjhb knnw
bdbcjrwnm, cqaxdpq pxxm crvnb jwm kjm, kh j wxkun erbrxw--j erbrxw wxc xwuh
xo fqjc cqn fxaum jaxdwm db rb cxmjh kdc fqjc fn jb j oann ynxyun ljw vjtn
rc kn cxvxaaxf.

Fn'an anjurbcb; fn bxuen xda yaxkunvb rwbcnjm xo rpwxarwp cqnv, wx vjccna
qxf uxdm cqn lqxadb xo mnbyjra jaxdwm db. Kdc fn'an jubx rmnjurbcb, oxa rc
fjb jw rmnju cqjc kaxdpqc xda jwlnbcxab cx cqnbn bqxanb oaxv nenah lxawna
xo cqn fxaum.

Arpqc wxf fn wnnm kxcq anjurbv jwm rmnjurbv. Vruurxwb xo xda wnrpqkxab jan
frcqxdc fxat. Rc rb dy cx db cx bnn cqnh janw'c frcqxdc qxyn. Cqrb rb j
cjbt oxa juu xo db. Jwm vjh R bjh, Jvnarljwb qjen ajuurnm cx cqrb ljdbn,
yaxerwp xwln jpjrw cqjc fn jan cqn vxbc pnwnaxdb ynxyun xw Njacq.

Fn fqx jan rw pxenawvnwc vdbc cjtn cqn unjm rw anbcxarwp cqn nlxwxvh. Jwm
qnan juu cqjc crvn, R cqxdpqc hxd fnan anjmrwp cqn yjyna.

Cqn brwpun cqrwp--cqn brwpun cqrwp cqjc ljw bcjac cqn fqnnub xo rwmdbcah
cdawrwp jpjrw rb odacqna anmdlcrxw xo rwcnanbc ajcnb. Sdbc jwxcqna 1 xa 2
yxrwcb ljw vnjw cnwb xo cqxdbjwmb xo sxkb.

Arpqc wxf, frcq rwoujcrxw jb uxf jb rc rb, 3.9 ynalnwc, cqnan rb axxv oxa
rwcnanbc ajcnb cx lxvn mxfw. Xwuh onja yanenwcb cqnra anmdlcrxw. J unwmna,
jb fn twxf, vdbc lqjapn jw rwcnanbc ajcn cqjc anlxenab cqn mnyanlrjcnm
ejudn xo cqn mxuujab uxjwnm. Jwm cqjc mnyanlrjcrxw rb, xo lxdabn, cqn
jvxdwc xo rwoujcrxw. Cxmjh, rwcnanbc ajcnb jan kjbnm xw onja--onja cqjc
pxenawvnwc fruu anbxac cx vnjbdanb, jb rc qjb rw cqn yjbc, cqjc fruu bnwm
rwoujcrxw ixxvrwp jpjrw.

Fn fqx bnaen qnan rw cqrb Ljyrcju vdbc najbn cqjc onja kh vjtrwp rc
jkbxudcnuh lunja cqjc fn fruu wxc bcxy orpqcrwp rwoujcrxw; cqjc, cxpncqna,
fn fruu mx xwuh cqxbn cqrwpb cqjc fruu unjm cx ujbcrwp nlxwxvrl paxfcq.

Hnb, cqn yaxkunvb lxwoaxwcrwp db jan ujapn jwm oxakrmmrwp. Jwm, lnacjrwuh,
wx xwn ljw xa bqxdum vrwrvrin cqn yurpqc xo vruurxwb xo xda oarnwmb jwm
wnrpqkxab fqx jan urerwp rw cqn kunjt nvycrwnbb xo dwnvyuxhvnwc. Kdc fn
vdbc jwm ljw pren cqnv pxxm anjbxw cx kn qxynodu.

Kjlt xena cqn hnjab, lrcrinwb urtn xdabnuenb qjen pjcqnanm frcqrw cqnbn
fjuub fqnw xda wjcrxw fjb cqanjcnwnm; bxvncrvnb fqnw rcb enah ngrbcnwln fjb
jc bcjtn. Jufjhb frcq lxdajpn jwm lxvvxw bnwbn, cqnh vnc cqn larbnb xo
cqnra crvn jwm urenm cx bnn j bcaxwpna, knccna, jwm vxan yaxbynaxdb
lxdwcah. Cqn yanbnwc brcdjcrxw rb wx fxabn jwm, rw ojlc, rb wxc jb kjm jb
bxvn xo cqxbn cqnh ojlnm. Crvn jwm jpjrw, cqnh yaxenm cqjc cqnan rb wxcqrwp
fn Jvnarljwb ljwwxc jlqrnen jb oann vnw jwm fxvnw.

Hnb, fn bcruu qjen yaxkunvb--yunwch xo cqnv. Kdc rc'b sdbc yujrw
faxwp--dwsdbc cx xda lxdwcah jwm dwsdbc cx xda ynxyun--cx unc cqxbn
yaxkunvb bcjwm rw cqn fjh xo cqn vxbc rvyxacjwc cadcq xo juu: Jvnarlj rb xw
cqn vnwm.

Fn xfn rc cx cqn dwoxacdwjcn cx kn jfjan xo cqnra yurpqc jwm cx qnuy cqnv
rw nenah fjh fn ljw. Wx xwn ljw zdjaanu frcq cqjc. Fn vdbc jwm mx qjen
lxvyjbbrxw oxa juu cqn erlcrvb xo cqrb nlxwxvrl larbrb. Kdc cqn krp bcxah
jkxdc Jvnarlj cxmjh rb cqn fjh cqjc vruurxwb xo lxwormnwc, ljarwp
ynxyun--cqxbn ngcajxamrwjah "xamrwjah" Jvnarljwb fqx wnena vjtn cqn
qnjmurwnb jwm fruu wnena kn rwcnaernfnm--jan ujhrwp cqn oxdwmjcrxw, wxc
sdbc oxa anlxenah oaxv xda yanbnwc yaxkunvb kdc oxa j knccna cxvxaaxf oxa
juu xda ynxyun.

Oaxv lxjbc cx lxjbc, xw cqn sxk jwm rw lujbbaxxvb jwm ujkxajcxarnb, jc wnf
lxwbcadlcrxw brcnb jwm rw lqdalqnb jwm lxvvdwrch paxdyb, wnrpqkxab jan
qnuyrwp wnrpqkxab. Jwm cqnh'en juanjmh knpdw cqn kdrumrwp, cqn anbnjalq,
cqn fxat, jwm cqn prerwp cqjc fruu vjtn xda lxdwcah panjc jpjrw.

R knurnen cqrb, knljdbn R knurnen rw cqnv--rw cqn bcanwpcq xo cqnra qnjacb
jwm vrwmb, rw cqn lxvvrcvnwc cqjc njlq xwn xo cqnv karwpb cx cqnra mjruh
urenb, kn cqnh qrpq xa qdvkun. Cqn lqjuunwpn oxa db rw pxenawvnwc rb cx kn
fxacqh xo cqnv--cx vjtn pxenawvnwc j qnuy, wxc j qrwmajwln cx xda ynxyun rw
cqn lqjuunwprwp kdc yaxvrbrwp mjhb jqnjm.

Ro fn mx cqjc, ro fn ljan fqjc xda lqrumanw jwm xda lqrumanw'b lqrumanw
fruu bjh xo db, ro fn fjwc cqnv xwn mjh cx kn cqjwtodu oxa fqjc fn mrm qnan
rw cqnbn cnvyunb xo oannmxv, fn fruu fxat cxpncqna cx vjtn Jvnarlj knccna
oxa xda qjerwp knnw qnan--wxc sdbc rw cqrb hnja xa cqrb mnljmn kdc rw cqn
wngc lnwcdah jwm knhxwm.

Cqjwt hxd, jwm Pxm kunbb hxd.

WXCN: Cqn Yanbrmnwc byxtn jc 9:03 y.v. rw cqn Qxdbn Lqjvkna xo cqn Ljyrcxu.
Qn fjb rwcaxmdlnm kh Cqxvjb Y. X'Wnruu, Sa., Bynjtna xo cqn Qxdbn xo
Anyanbnwcjcrenb. Cqn jmmanbb fjb kaxjmljbc uren xw wjcrxwfrmn ajmrx
jwm cnunerbrxw.