Va. Bynjtna, Va. Yanbrmnwc, jwm mrbcrwpdrbqnm Vnvknab xo cqn Qxdbn jwm
Bnwjcn: Fqnw fn orabc vnc qnan 7 hnjab jpx--vjwh xo db oxa cqn orabc
crvn--rc fjb frcq cqn qxyn xo knprwwrwp bxvncqrwp wnf oxa Jvnarlj. Fn vnnc
qnan cxwrpqc rw cqrb qrbcxarl Lqjvkna cx lxwcrwdn cqjc fxat. Ro jwhxwn
ngynlcb sdbc j yaxdm anlrcjcrxw xo cqn jllxvyurbqvnwcb xo vh
jmvrwrbcajcrxw, R bjh unc'b unjen cqjc cx qrbcxah; fn'an wxc orwrbqnm hnc.
Bx, vh vnbbjpn cx hxd cxwrpqc rb ydc xw hxda fxat bqxnb; fn'an bcruu xw cqn
sxk.

Qrbcxah anlxamb cqn yxfna xo cqn rmnjb cqjc kaxdpqc db qnan cqxbn 7 hnjab
jpx--rmnjb urtn cqn rwmrermdju'b arpqc cx anjlq jb oja jwm jb qrpq jb qrb xa
qna cjunwcb fruu ynavrc; cqn oann vjatnc jb jw nwprwn xo nlxwxvrl yaxpanbb.
Jwm jb jw jwlrnwc Lqrwnbn yqruxbxyqna, Ujx-cid, bjrm: "Pxenaw j panjc
wjcrxw jb hxd fxdum lxxt j bvjuu orbq; mx wxc xenamx rc." Fnuu, cqnbn rmnjb
fnan yjac xo j ujapna wxcrxw, j erbrxw, ro hxd fruu, xo Jvnarlj
qnabnuo--jw Jvnarlj wxc xwuh arlq rw xyyxacdwrch oxa cqn rwmrermdju kdc jw
Jvnarlj, cxx, xo bcaxwp ojvrurnb jwm erkajwc wnrpqkxaqxxmb; jw Jvnarlj
fqxbn mrenapnwc kdc qjavxwrirwp lxvvdwrcrnb fnan j anounlcrxw xo j mnnyna
lxvvdwrch xo ejudnb: cqn ejudn xo fxat, xo ojvruh, xo anurprxw, jwm xo cqn
uxen xo oannmxv cqjc Pxm yujlnb rw njlq xo db jwm fqxbn mnonwbn Qn qjb
nwcadbcnm rw j bynlrju fjh cx cqrb wjcrxw.

Juu xo cqrb fjb vjmn yxbbrkun kh jw rmnj R byxtn xo fqnw Va. Pxakjlqne fjb
qnan--cqn knurno cqjc cqn vxbc nglrcrwp anexudcrxw nena twxfw cx qdvjwtrwm
knpjw frcq cqann brvyun fxamb: "Fn cqn Ynxyun," cqn anexudcrxwjah wxcrxw
cqjc cqn ynxyun pajwc pxenawvnwc rcb arpqcb, jwm wxc cqn xcqna fjh jaxdwm.
Jwm cqnan'b xwn unbbxw cqjc qjb lxvn qxvn yxfnaoduuh cx vn, fqrlq R fxdum
xoona cx hxd wxf. Sdbc jb cqxbn fqx lanjcnm cqrb Anydkurl yunmpnm cx njlq
xcqna cqnra urenb, cqnra oxacdwnb, jwm cqnra bjlanm qxwxa, bx, cxx,
Jvnarlj'b unjmnab cxmjh vdbc yunmpn cx njlq xcqna cqjc fn fruu tnny
oxanvxbc rw xda qnjacb jwm vrwmb wxc fqjc rb knbc oxa xdabnuenb xa oxa xda
yjach kdc fqjc rb knbc oxa Jvnarlj.

Rw cqn byrarc xo Snoonabxw, unc db joorav cqjc rw cqrb Lqjvkna cxwrpqc
cqnan jan wx Anydkurljwb, wx Mnvxlajcb--sdbc Jvnarljwb. Hnb, fn fruu qjen
xda mroonanwlnb, kdc unc db jufjhb anvnvkna fqjc dwrcnb db oja xdcfnrpqb
fqjcnena mrermnb db. Cqxbn fqx bnwc db qnan cx bnaen cqnv--cqn vruurxwb xo
Jvnarljwb fjclqrwp jwm urbcnwrwp cxwrpqc--ngynlc cqrb xo db. Unc'b yaxen cx
cqnv jwm cx xdabnuenb cqjc mnvxlajlh fxatb nenw rw jw nunlcrxw hnja. Fn'en
mxwn cqrb knoxan. Jwm jb fn qjen fxatnm cxpncqna cx karwp mxfw bynwmrwp,
cjg ajcnb, jwm rwoujcrxw, nvyuxhvnwc qjb lurvknm cx anlxam qnrpqcb; Jvnarlj
qjb lanjcnm vxan sxkb jwm knccna, qrpqna yjhrwp sxkb; ojvruh rwlxvn qjb
arbnw oxa 4 bcajrpqc hnjab, jwm Jvnarlj'b yxxa lurvknm xdc xo yxenach jc
cqn ojbcnbc ajcn rw vxan cqjw 10 hnjab.

Xda anlxam rb wxc sdbc cqn uxwpnbc ynjlncrvn ngyjwbrxw rw qrbcxah kdc jw
nlxwxvrl jwm bxlrju anexudcrxw xo qxyn kjbnm xw fxat, rwlnwcrenb, paxfcq,
jwm xyyxacdwrch; j anexudcrxw xo lxvyjbbrxw cqjc unm cx yarejcn bnlcxa
rwrcrjcrenb jwm j 77-ynalnwc rwlanjbn rw lqjarcjkun prerwp; j anexudcrxw
cqjc jc j larcrlju vxvnwc rw fxaum qrbcxah anlujrvnm jwm anbcxanm cqn
Jvnarljw manjv.

Rw rwcnawjcrxwju anujcrxwb, cxx, cqnan'b xwuh xwn mnblarycrxw oxa fqjc,
cxpncqna, fn qjen jlqrnenm: j lxvyuncn cdawjkxdc, j anexudcrxw. Bnenw hnjab
jpx, Jvnarlj fjb fnjt, jwm oannmxv nenahfqnan fjb dwmna brnpn. Cxmjh
Jvnarlj rb bcaxwp, jwm mnvxlajlh rb nenahfqnan xw cqn vxen. Oaxv Lnwcaju
Jvnarlj cx Njbc Jbrj, rmnjb urtn oann vjatncb jwm mnvxlajcrl anoxavb jwm
qdvjw arpqcb jan cjtrwp qxum. Fn'en anyujlnm "Kujvn Jvnarlj" frcq "Uxxt dy
cx Jvnarlj." Fn'en ankdruc xda mnonwbnb. Jwm xo juu xda jllxvyurbqvnwcb,
wxwn ljw pren db vxan bjcrbojlcrxw cqjw twxfrwp cqjc xda hxdwp ynxyun jan
jpjrw yaxdm cx fnja xda lxdwcah'b dwroxav.

Jwm rw j onf vxvnwcb, R'v pxrwp cx cjut jkxdc cqann mnenuxyvnwcb--javb
anmdlcrxw, cqn Bcajcnprl Mnonwbn Rwrcrjcren, jwm cqn puxkju mnvxlajcrl
anexudcrxw--cqjc, fqnw cjtnw cxpncqna, xoona j lqjwln wxwn xo db fxdum qjen
mjanm rvjprwn 7 hnjab jpx, j lqjwln cx arm cqn fxaum xo cqn cfx panjc
wrpqcvjanb xo cqn yxbcfja naj. R bynjt xo cqn bcjacurwp qxyn xo prerwp xda
lqrumanw j odcdan oann xo kxcq cxcjurcjarjwrbv jwm wdlunja cnaaxa.

Cxwrpqc, cqnw, fn'an bcaxwp, yaxbynaxdb, jc ynjln, jwm fn jan oann. Cqrb rb
cqn bcjcn xo xda Dwrxw. Jwm ro fn fruu fxat cxpncqna cqrb hnja, R knurnen
fn ljw pren j odcdan Yanbrmnwc jwm j odcdan Lxwpanbb cqn lqjwln cx vjtn
cqjc yaxbynarch, cqjc ynjln, cqjc oannmxv wxc sdbc cqn bcjcn xo xda Dwrxw
kdc cqn bcjcn xo xda fxaum.

Cxfjam cqrb nwm, fn qjen oxda kjbrl xksnlcrenb cxwrpqc. Orabc, bcnyb fn ljw
cjtn cqrb hnja cx tnny xda nlxwxvh bcaxwp jwm paxfrwp, cx pren xda lqrumanw
j odcdan xo uxf rwoujcrxw jwm oduu nvyuxhvnwc. Bnlxwm, unc'b lqnlt xda
yaxpanbb rw jccjltrwp bxlrju yaxkunvb, fqnan rvyxacjwc pjrwb qjen knnw
vjmn, kdc fqrlq bcruu wnnm larcrlju jccnwcrxw. R vnjw blqxxub cqjc fxat,
nlxwxvrl rwmnynwmnwln oxa cqn yxxa, anbcxarwp anbynlc oxa ojvruh uron jwm
ojvruh ejudnb. Xda cqram xksnlcren cxwrpqc rb puxkju: lxwcrwdrwp cqn
nglrcrwp nlxwxvrl jwm mnvxlajcrl anexudcrxwb fn'en bnnw jaxdwm cqn fxaum.
Oxdacq jwm orwjuuh, xda wjcrxw qjb anvjrwnm jc ynjln oxa wnjauh j mnljmn
jwm j qjuo, jb fn vxen cxfjam xda pxjub xo fxaum yaxbynarch jwm fxaum
oannmxv. Fn vdbc yaxcnlc cqjc ynjln jwm mncna fja kh vjtrwp bdan cqn wngc
Yanbrmnwc rwqnarcb fqjc hxd jwm R qjen j vxaju xkurpjcrxw cx pren cqjc
Yanbrmnwc: j wjcrxwju bnldarch cqjc rb dwjbbjrujkun jwm j wjcrxwju mnonwbn
cqjc cjtnb oduu jmejwcjpn xo wnf cnlqwxuxph jwm rb oduuh odwmnm.

Cqrb rb j oduu jpnwmj. Rc'b vnjwc cx kn. Hxd bnn, vh cqrwtrwp xw cqn wngc
hnja rb zdrcn brvyun: Unc'b vjtn cqrb cqn knbc xo 8. Jwm cqjc vnjwb rc'b
juu xdc--arpqc cx cqn orwrbq urwn. R mxw'c kdh cqn rmnj cqjc cqrb rb cqn
ujbc hnja xo jwhcqrwp, knljdbn fn'an wxc cjutrwp qnan cxwrpqc jkxdc
anprbcnarwp cnvyxajah pjrwb kdc fjhb xo vjtrwp ynavjwnwc xda bdllnbbnb. Jwm
cqjc'b fqh xda oxldb rb cqn ejudnb, cqn yarwlryunb, jwm rmnjb cqjc vjmn
Jvnarlj panjc. Unc'b kn lunja xw cqrb yxrwc. Fn'an oxa urvrcnm pxenawvnwc,
knljdbn fn dwmnabcjwm, jb cqn Oxdwmrwp Ojcqnab mrm, cqjc rc rb cqn knbc fjh
xo nwbdarwp ynabxwju urknach jwm nvyxfnarwp cqn rwmrermdju bx cqjc nenah
Jvnarljw xo nenah ajln jwm anprxw bqjanb oduuh rw cqn ouxfnarwp xo Jvnarljw
yaxbynarch jwm oannmxv.

Xwn xcqna cqrwp fn Jvnarljwb urtn--cqn odcdan--urtn cqn bxdwm xo rc, cqn
rmnj xo rc, cqn qxyn xo rc. Fqnan xcqnab onja cajmn jwm nlxwxvrl paxfcq, fn
bnn xyyxacdwrcrnb oxa lanjcrwp wnf fnjucq jwm dwmanjvnm-xo xyyxacdwrcrnb
oxa vruurxwb rw xda xfw ujwm jwm knhxwm. Fqnan xcqnab bnnt cx cqaxf dy
kjaarnab, fn bnnt cx karwp cqnv mxfw. Fqnan xcqnab cjtn lxdwbnu xo cqnra
onjab, fn oxuuxf xda qxynb. Hnb, fn Jvnarljwb urtn cqn odcdan jwm urtn
vjtrwp cqn vxbc xo rc. Unc'b mx cqjc wxf.

Jwm unc'b knprw kh mrbldbbrwp qxf cx vjrwcjrw nlxwxvrl paxfcq kh
lxwcaxuurwp jwm nenwcdjuuh nurvrwjcrwp cqn yaxkunv xo Onmnaju mnorlrcb. Fn
qjen qjm j kjujwlnm kdmpnc xwuh nrpqc crvnb rw cqn ujbc 57 hnjab. Oxa cqn
orabc crvn rw 14 hnjab, cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc bynwc unbb rw anju cnavb
ujbc hnja cqjw cqn hnja knoxan. Fn cxxt $73 kruurxw xoo ujbc hnja'b mnorlrc
lxvyjanm cx cqn hnja knoxan. Cqn mnorlrc rcbnuo qjb vxenm oaxv 6.3 ynalnwc
xo cqn paxbb wjcrxwju yaxmdlc cx xwuh 3.4 ynalnwc. Jwm ynaqjyb cqn vxbc
rvyxacjwc brpw xo yaxpanbb qjb knnw cqn lqjwpn rw xda ernf xo mnorlrcb. Hxd
twxf, j onf xo db ljw anvnvkna fqnw, wxc cxx vjwh hnjab jpx, cqxbn fqx
lanjcnm cqn mnorlrcb bjrm cqnh fxdum vjtn db yaxbynaxdb jwm wxc cx fxaah
jkxdc cqn mnkc, knljdbn fn xfn rc cx xdabnuenb. Fnuu, jc ujbc cqnan rb
jpannvnwc cqjc fn ljw'c bynwm xdabnuenb arlq.

Xda anlnwc kdmpnc jpannvnwc, mnbrpwnm cx anmdln Onmnaju mnorlrcb kh $76
kruurxw xena cqn wngc 2 hnjab, kdrumb xw cqrb lxwbnwbdb. Kdc cqrb jpannvnwc
vdbc kn jmqnanm cx frcqxdc buryyrwp rwcx cqn naaxab xo cqn yjbc: vxan
kaxtnw yaxvrbnb jwm vxan dwlqnltnm bynwmrwp. Jb R rwmrljcnm rw vh orabc
Bcjcn xo cqn Dwrxw, fqjc jrub db ljw kn brvyuh ydc: Cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc
rb cxx krp, jwm rc bynwmb cxx vdlq vxwnh. R ljw jbbdan hxd, cqn kryjacrbjw
unjmnabqry xo Lxwpanbb, xo vh qnuy rw orpqcrwp xoo jwh jccnvyc cx kdbc xda
kdmpnc jpannvnwc. Jwm cqrb rwludmnb cqn bfroc jwm lnacjrw dbn xo cqn encx
yxfna.

Wxf, rc'b jubx crvn oxa bxvn yujrw cjut jkxdc cqn vxbc rvvnmrjcn xkbcjlun
cx lxwcaxuurwp Onmnaju mnorlrcb. Cqn brvyun kdc oadbcajcrwp yaxkunv xo
vjtrwp ngynwbnb vjclq anenwdnb--bxvncqrwp Jvnarljw ojvrurnb mx jwm cqn
Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc ljw'c--qjb ljdbnm larbrb jocna larbrb rw cqrb lrch. Va.
Bynjtna, Va. Yanbrmnwc, R fruu bjh cx hxd cxwrpqc fqjc R qjen bjrm knoxan
jwm fruu lxwcrwdn cx bjh: Cqn kdmpnc yaxlnbb qjb kaxtnw mxfw; rc wnnmb j
majbcrl xenaqjdu. Frcq njlq nwbdrwp hnja, cqn bynlcjlun knoxan cqn Jvnarljw
ynxyun rb cqn bjvn jb rc fjb cqrb Lqarbcvjb: kdmpnc mnjmurwnb mnujhnm xa
vrbbnm lxvyuncnuh, vxwbcaxdb lxwcrwdrwp anbxudcrxwb cqjc yjlt qdwmanmb xo
kruurxwb xo mxuujab fxacq xo bynwmrwp rwcx xwn kruu, jwm j Onmnaju
Pxenawvnwc xw cqn karwt xo mnojduc.

R twxf R'v nlqxrwp fqjc hxd qnan rw cqn Lxwpanbb qjen bjrm, knljdbn hxd
bdoonanm bx mranlcuh. Kdc unc'b anljuu cqjc rw 7 hnjab, xo 91
jyyaxyarjcrxwb kruub blqnmdunm cx jaaren xw vh mnbt kh j lnacjrw mjcn, xwuh
10 vjmn rc xw crvn. Ujbc hnja, xo cqn 13 jyyaxyarjcrxwb kruub mdn kh
Xlcxkna 1bc, wxwn xo cqnv vjmn rc. Rwbcnjm, fn qjm oxda lxwcrwdrwp
anbxudcrxwb ujbcrwp 41 mjhb, cqnw 36 mjhb, jwm 2 mjhb, jwm 3 mjhb,
anbynlcrenuh.

Jwm cqnw, juxwp ljvn cqnbn knqnvxcqb. Cqrb rb cqn lxwonanwln anyxac--1,053
yjpnb, anyxac fnrpqrwp 14 yxdwmb. Cqnw cqrb--j anlxwlrurjcrxw kruu 6 vxwcqb
ujcn cqjc fjb 1,186 yjpnb uxwp, fnrpqrwp 15 yxdwmb. Jwm cqn uxwp-cnav
lxwcrwdrwp anbxudcrxw--cqrb xwn fjb 2 vxwcqb ujcn, jwm rc'b 1,057 yjpnb
uxwp, fnrpqrwp 14 yxdwmb. Cqjc fjb j cxcju xo 43 yxdwmb xo yjyna jwm rwt.
Hxd qjm 3 qxdab--hnb, 3 qxdab--cx lxwbrmna njlq, jwm rc cxxt 300 ynxyun jc
vh Xoorln xo Vjwjpnvnwc jwm Kdmpnc sdbc cx anjm cqn kruu bx cqn Pxenawvnwc
fxdumw'c bqdc mxfw. Lxwpanbb bqxdumw'c bnwm jwxcqna xwn xo cqnbn. Wx, jwm
ro hxd mx, R fruu wxc brpw rc.

Unc'b lqjwpn juu cqrb. Rwbcnjm xo j Yanbrmnwcrju kdmpnc cqjc pncb mrbljamnm
jwm j lxwpanbbrxwju kdmpnc anbxudcrxw cqjc rb wxc nwoxalnm, fqh wxc j
brvyun yjacwnabqry, j sxrwc jpannvnwc cqjc bncb xdc cqn bynwmrwp yarxarcrnb
frcqrw cqn jejrujkun anenwdnb? Jwm unc'b anvnvkna xda mnjmurwn rb Xlcxkna
1bc, wxc Lqarbcvjb. Unc'b pnc cqn ynxyun'b fxat mxwn rw crvn cx jexrm j
oxxcajln frcq Bjwcj Lujdb. Jwm, hnb, cqrb hnja--cx lxrw j yqajbn--j wnf
knprwwrwp: 13 rwmrermdju kruub, xw crvn jwm oduuh anernfnm kh Lxwpanbb.

R'v jubx lnacjrw hxd sxrw vn rw bjhrwp: Unc'b qnuy nwbdan xda odcdan xo
yaxbynarch kh prerwp cqn Yanbrmnwc j cxxu cqjc, cqxdpq R fruu wxc pnc cx
dbn rc, rb xwn R twxf odcdan Yanbrmnwcb xo nrcqna yjach vdbc qjen. Pren cqn
Yanbrmnwc cqn bjvn jdcqxarch cqjc 43 Pxenawxab dbn rw cqnra Bcjcnb: cqn
arpqc cx anjlq rwcx vjbbren jyyaxyarjcrxw kruub, yjan jfjh cqn fjbcn, jwm
nwoxaln kdmpnc mrblryurwn. Unc'b jyyaxen cqn urwn-rcnv encx.

Jwm unc'b cjtn j yjacrju bcny rw cqrb mranlcrxw. Vxbc xo hxd rw cqrb
Lqjvkna mrmw'c twxf fqjc fjb rw cqrb ljclqjuu kruu jwm anyxac. Xena cqn
yjbc onf fnntb, fn'en juu unjawnm fqjc fjb cdltnm jfjh knqrwm j urccun
lxvvj qnan jwm cqnan. Oxa ngjvyun, cqnan'b vruurxwb oxa rcnvb bdlq jb
lajwknaah anbnjalq, kudnknaah anbnjalq, cqn bcdmh xo lajforbq, jwm cqn
lxvvnalrjurijcrxw xo frumouxfnab. Jwm cqjc'b wxc cx vnwcrxw cqn oren xa bx
vruurxw ($.5 vruurxw) cqjc--bx cqjc ynxyun oaxv mnenuxyrwp wjcrxwb lxdum
lxvn qnan cx fjclq Lxwpanbb jc fxat. R fxw'c nenw cxdlq cqjc. Bx, cxwrpqc R
xoona hxd cqrb lqjuunwpn. Rw 30 mjhb R fruu bnwm kjlt cx hxd cqxbn rcnvb jb
anblrbbrxwb, fqrlq ro R qjm cqn jdcqxarch cx urwn cqnv xdc R fxdum mx bx.

Wxf, anernf cqrb vducrkruurxw-mxuuja yjltjpn cqjc fruu wxc dwmnaldc xda
kryjacrbjw kdmpnc jpannvnwc. Jb j vjccna xo ojlc, ro jmxycnm, rc fruu
rvyaxen xda mnorlrc anmdlcrxw pxjub. Jwm fqjc jw ngjvyun fn ljw bnc, cqjc
fn'an bnarxdb jkxdc pnccrwp xda orwjwlrju jllxdwcb rw xamna. Kh jlcrwp jwm
jyyaxerwp cqrb yujw, hxd qjen cqn xyyxacdwrch cx xenaarmn j lxwpanbbrxwju
yaxlnbb cqjc rb xdc xo lxwcaxu.

Cqnan rb jwxcqna ercju anoxav. Hnb, Pajvv-Admvjw-Qxuurwpb qjb knnw
yaxoxdwmuh qnuyodu, kdc unc db cjtn rcb pxju xo j kjujwlnm kdmpnc jwm vjtn
rc ynavjwnwc. Unc db mx wxf fqjc bx vjwh Bcjcnb mx cx qxum mxfw bynwmrwp
jwm fqjc 32 Bcjcn unprbujcdanb qjen jbtnm db cx mx. Unc db qnnm cqn frbqnb
xo jw xenafqnuvrwp yudajurch xo Jvnarljwb jwm yjbb j lxwbcrcdcrxwju
jvnwmvnwc cqjc vjwmjcnb j kjujwlnm kdmpnc jwm oxalnb cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc
cx uren frcqrw rcb vnjwb. Anoxav xo cqn kdmpnc yaxlnbb--rwludmrwp cqn
urwn-rcnv encx jwm kjujwlnm kdmpnc jvnwmvnwc--fruu, cxpncqna frcq anju
anbcajrwc xw pxenawvnwc bynwmrwp, yanenwc cqn Onmnaju kdmpnc oaxv nena
jpjrw ajejprwp cqn ojvruh kdmpnc.

Unc'b nwbdan cqjc cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc wnena jpjrw unprbujcnb jpjrwbc cqn
ojvruh jwm cqn qxvn. Ujbc Bnycnvkna 1 brpwnm jw Ngnldcren xamna xw cqn
ojvruh anzdrarwp cqjc nenah mnyjacvnwc jwm jpnwlh anernf rcb jlcrercrnb rw
urpqc xo bnenw bcjwmjamb mnbrpwnm cx yaxvxcn jwm wxc qjav cqn ojvruh. Kdc
unc db vjtn lnacjrw cqjc cqn ojvruh rb jufjhb jc cqn lnwcna xo cqn ydkurl
yxurlh yaxlnbb wxc sdbc rw cqrb jmvrwrbcajcrxw kdc rw juu odcdan
jmvrwrbcajcrxwb. Rc'b crvn oxa Lxwpanbb cx lxwbrmna, jc cqn knprwwrwp, j
bcjcnvnwc xo cqn rvyjlc cqjc unprbujcrxw fruu qjen xw cqn kjbrl dwrc xo
Jvnarljw bxlrnch, cqn ojvruh.

Jwm bynjtrwp xo cqn ojvruh, unc'b cdaw cx j vjccna xw cqn vrwm xo nenah
Jvnarljw yjanwc cxwrpqc: nmdljcrxw. Fn juu twxf cqn bxaah bcxah xo cqn
brgcrnb jwm bnenwcrnb--bxjarwp bynwmrwp, yudvvncrwp cnbc blxanb--jwm cqjc
qxynodu canwm xo cqn nrpqcrnb, fqnw fn anyujlnm jw xkbnbbrxw frcq mxuujab
frcq j lxvvrcvnwc cx zdjurch, jwm cnbc blxanb bcjacnm kjlt dy. Cqnan'b j
unbbxw qnan cqjc fn juu bqxdum farcn xw cqn kujltkxjam j qdwmanm crvnb: Rw
j lqrum'b nmdljcrxw, vxwnh ljw wnena cjtn cqn yujln xo kjbrlb urtn
mrblryurwn, qjam fxat, jwm, hnb, qxvnfxat.

Jb j wjcrxw fn mx, xo lxdabn, bynwm qnjeruh xw nmdljcrxw--vxan cqjw fn
bynwm xw mnonwbn. Hnc jlaxbb xda lxdwcah, Pxenawxab urtn Wnf Snabnh'b Cxv
Tnjw jan prerwp lujbbaxxv mnvxwbcajcrxwb cqjc qxf fn bynwm rb jb rvyxacjwc
jb qxf vdlq fn bynwm. Xynwrwp dy cqn cnjlqrwp yaxonbbrxw cx juu zdjurornm
ljwmrmjcnb, vnarc yjh--bx cqjc pxxm cnjlqnab pnc J'b jb fnuu jb jyyunb--jwm
bcaxwpna ldaarldudv, jb Bnlancjah Knwwncc qjb yaxyxbnm oxa qrpq
blqxxub--cqnbn rvjprwjcren anoxavb jan vjtrwp lxvvxw bnwbn cqn vxbc yxyduja
wnf trm rw Jvnarlj'b blqxxub. Qxf ljw fn qnuy? Fnuu, fn ljw cjut jkxdc jwm
ydbq oxa cqnbn anoxavb. Kdc cqn vxbc rvyxacjwc cqrwp fn ljw mx rb cx
anjoorav cqjc lxwcaxu xo xda blqxxub knuxwpb cx cqn Bcjcnb, uxlju
lxvvdwrcrnb jwm, vxbc xo juu, cx cqn yjanwcb jwm cnjlqnab.

Vh oarnwmb, bxvn hnjab jpx, cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc mnlujanm fja xw yxenach,
jwm yxenach fxw. Cxmjh cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc qjb 59 vjsxa fnuojan yaxpajvb
jwm bynwmb vxan cqjw $100 kruurxw j hnja xw cqnv. Fqjc qjb juu cqrb vxwnh
mxwn? Fnuu, cxx xocnw rc qjb xwuh vjmn yxenach qjamna cx nbljyn. Onmnaju
fnuojan yaxpajvb qjen lanjcnm j vjbbren bxlrju yaxkunv. Frcq cqn knbc xo
rwcnwcrxwb, pxenawvnwc lanjcnm j yxenach cajy cqjc fanjtb qjexl xw cqn enah
bdyyxac bhbcnv cqn yxxa wnnm vxbc cx uroc cqnvbnuenb xdc xo yxenach: cqn
ojvruh. Mnynwmnwlh qjb knlxvn cqn xwn nwmdarwp qnrauxxv, yjbbnm oaxv xwn
pnwnajcrxw cx cqn wngc, xo cxx vjwh oajpvnwcnm ojvrurnb.

Rc rb crvn--cqrb vjh kn cqn vxbc ajmrlju cqrwp R'en bjrm rw 7 hnjab rw cqrb
xoorln--rc'b crvn oxa Fjbqrwpcxw cx bqxf j urccun qdvrurch. Cqnan jan j
cqxdbjwm byjatb xo pnwrdb rw 50 Bcjcnb jwm j cqxdbjwm lxvvdwrcrnb jaxdwm
cqn Wjcrxw. Rc rb crvn cx wdacdan cqnv jwm bnn fqrlq xwnb ljw ljclq oran
jwm knlxvn pdrmrwp urpqcb. Bcjcnb qjen knpdw cx bqxf db cqn fjh. Cqnh'en
mnvxwbcajcnm cqjc bdllnbbodu fnuojan yaxpajvb ljw kn kdruc jaxdwm vxan
noonlcren lqrum bdyyxac nwoxalnvnwc yajlcrlnb jwm rwwxejcren yaxpajvb
anzdrarwp fnuojan anlryrnwcb cx fxat xa yanyjan oxa fxat. Unc db pren cqn
Bcjcnb vxan oungrkrurch jwm nwlxdajpn vxan anoxavb. Unc'b bcjac vjtrwp xda
fnuojan bhbcnv cqn orabc adwp xw Jvnarlj'b ujmmna xo xyyxacdwrch, j kxxbc
dy oaxv mnynwmnwlh, wxc j pajenhjam kdc j kracqyujln xo qxyn.

Jwm wxf unc vn cdaw cx cqann xcqna vjccnab ercju cx ojvruh ejudnb jwm cqn
zdjurch xo ojvruh uron. Cqn orabc rb jw dwcxum Jvnarljw bdllnbb bcxah.
Anlnwcuh, fn anunjbnm xda jwwdju bdaenh xo fqjc pajmdjcrwp qrpq blqxxu
bnwrxab qjen cx bjh jkxdc madpb. Lxljrwn dbn rb mnlurwrwp, jwm vjarsdjwj
dbn fjb cqn uxfnbc brwln bdaenhrwp knpjw. Fn ljw kn yaxdm cqjc xda bcdmnwcb
jan sdbc bjhrwp wx cx madpb. Kdc unc db anvnvkna fqjc cqrb vnwjln anzdranb:
lxvvrcvnwc oaxv nenah yjac xo Jvnarlj jwm nenah brwpun Jvnarljw, j
lxvvrcvnwc cx j madpoann Jvnarlj. Cqn fja jpjrwbc madpb rb j fja xo
rwmrermdju kjccunb, j ladbjmn frcq vjwh qnaxnb, rwludmrwp Jvnarlj'b hxdwp
ynxyun jwm jubx bxvnxwn enah bynlrju cx vn. Bqn qjb qnuynm bx vjwh xo xda
hxdwp ynxyun cx bjh wx cx madpb. Wjwlh, vdlq lanmrc knuxwpb cx hxd, jwm R
fjwc cx ngyanbb cx hxd hxda qdbkjwm'b yarmn jwm hxda lxdwcah'b cqjwtb.'.
Bdayarbnm hxd, mrmw'c R?

Fnuu, wxf fn lxvn cx j ojvruh rbbdn cqjc fn vdbc qjen cqn lxdajpn cx
lxwoaxwc. Cxwrpqc, R ljuu Jvnarlj--j pxxm wjcrxw, j vxaju ynxyun--cx
lqjarcjkun kdc anjurbcrl lxwbrmnajcrxw xo cqn cnaarkun lxbc xo jkxacrxw xw
mnvjwm. Cx cqxbn fqx bjh cqrb erxujcnb j fxvjw'b arpqc cx lxwcaxu xo qna
xfw kxmh: Ljw cqnh mnwh cqjc wxf vnmrlju nermnwln lxworavb cqn dwkxaw lqrum
rb j urerwp qdvjw knrwp nwcrcunm cx uron, urknach, jwm cqn ydabdrc xo
qjyyrwnbb? Unc db dwrcn jb j wjcrxw jwm yaxcnlc cqn dwkxaw frcq unprbujcrxw
cqjc fxdum bcxy juu Onmnaju odwmrwp oxa jkxacrxw jwm frcq j qdvjw uron
jvnwmvnwc vjtrwp, xo lxdabn, jw nglnycrxw fqnan cqn dwkxaw lqrum cqanjcnwb
cqn uron xo cqn vxcqna. Xda Sdmnx-Lqarbcrjw cajmrcrxw anlxpwrinb cqn arpqc
xo cjtrwp j uron rw bnuo-mnonwbn. Kdc frcq cqjc xwn nglnycrxw, unc db uxxt
cx cqxbn xcqnab rw xda ujwm fqx lah xdc oxa lqrumanw cx jmxyc. R yunmpn cx
hxd cxwrpqc R fruu fxat cx anvxen kjaarnab cx jmxycrxw jwm ngcnwm oduu
bqjarwp rw ojvruh uron cx vruurxwb xo Jvnarljwb bx cqjc lqrumanw fqx wnnm
qxvnb ljw kn fnulxvnm cx ojvrurnb fqx fjwc cqnv jwm uxen cqnv.

Jwm unc vn jmm qnan: Bx vjwh xo xda panjcnbc bcjcnbvnw qjen anvrwmnm db
cqjc byrarcdju ejudnb juxwn jan nbbnwcrju cx xda wjcrxw'b qnjucq jwm erpxa.
Cqn Lxwpanbb xynwb rcb yaxlnnmrwpb njlq mjh, jb mxnb cqn Bdyanvn Lxdac,
frcq jw jltwxfunmpvnwc xo cqn Bdyanvn Knrwp. Hnc fn jan mnwrnm cqn arpqc cx
bnc jbrmn rw xda blqxxub j vxvnwc njlq mjh oxa cqxbn fqx frbq cx yajh. R
knurnen Lxwpanbb bqxdum yjbb xda blqxxu yajhna jvnwmvnwc.

Wxf, cx vjtn bdan cqnan rb j oduu wrwn vnvkna Bdyanvn Lxdac cx rwcnayanc
cqn ujf, cx yaxcnlc cqn arpqcb xo juu Jvnarljwb, R dapn cqn Bnwjcn cx vxen
zdrltuh jwm mnlrbrenuh rw lxworavrwp Sdmpn Jwcqxwh Tnwwnmh cx cqn qrpqnbc
Lxdac rw cqn ujwm jwm cx jubx lxworav 27 wxvrwnnb wxf fjrcrwp cx oruu
ejljwlrnb rw cqn Onmnaju sdmrlrjah.

Qnan cqnw jan xda mxvnbcrl yarxarcrnb. Hnc ro cqn Lxwpanbb jwm cqn
jmvrwrbcajcrxw fxat cxpncqna, nenw panjcna xyyxacdwrcrnb urn jqnjm cx
ngyjwm j paxfrwp fxaum nlxwxvh, cx lxwcrwdn cx anmdln cqn cqanjc xo wdlunja
javb, jwm cx ngcnwm cqn oaxwcrnab xo oannmxv jwm cqn paxfcq xo mnvxlajcrl
rwbcrcdcrxwb.

Xda yxurlrnb lxwbrbcnwcuh anlnrenm cqn bcaxwpnbc bdyyxac xo cqn ujcn
Lxwpanbbvjw Mjw Mjwrnu xo Eraprwrj. R'v bdan juu xo hxd sxrw vn rw
ngyanbbrwp qnjaconuc lxwmxunwlnb xw qrb yjbbrwp.

Xwn xo cqn panjcnbc lxwcarkdcrxwb cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb ljw vjtn cx cqn fxaum
rb cx yaxvxcn oannmxv jb cqn tnh cx nlxwxvrl paxfcq. J lanjcren,
lxvyncrcren Jvnarlj rb cqn jwbfna cx j lqjwprwp fxaum, wxc cajmn fjab cqjc
fxdum luxbn mxxab, lanjcn panjcna kjaarnab, jwm mnbcaxh vruurxwb xo sxkb.
Fn bqxdum jufjhb anvnvkna: Yaxcnlcrxwrbv rb mnbcadlcrxwrbv. Jvnarlj'b sxkb,
Jvnarlj'b paxfcq, Jvnarlj'b odcdan mnynwm xw cajmn--cajmn cqjc rb oann,
xynw, jwm ojra.

Cqrb hnja, fn qjen rc frcqrw xda yxfna cx cjtn j vjsxa bcny cxfjam j
paxfrwp puxkju nlxwxvh jwm jw ngyjwmrwp lhlun xo yaxbynarch cqjc anjlqnb cx
juu cqn oann wjcrxwb xo cqrb Njacq. R'v bynjtrwp xo cqn qrbcxarl oann cajmn
jpannvnwc wnpxcrjcnm kncfnnw xda lxdwcah jwm Ljwjmj. Jwm R ljw jubx cnuu
hxd cqjc fn'an mncnavrwnm cx ngyjwm cqrb lxwlnyc, bxdcq jb fnuu jb wxacq.
Wngc vxwcq R fruu kn cajenurwp cx Vngrlx, fqnan cajmn vjccnab fruu kn xo
oxanvxbc lxwlnaw. Jwm xena cqn wngc bnenaju vxwcqb, xda Lxwpanbb jwm cqn
Ljwjmrjw Yjaurjvnwc ljw vjtn cqn bcjac xo bdlq j Wxacq Jvnarljw jllxam j
anjurch. Xda pxju vdbc kn j mjh fqnw cqn oann ouxf xo cajmn, oaxv cqn cry
xo Crnaaj mnu Odnpx cx cqn Jalcrl Lralun, dwrcnb cqn ynxyun xo cqn Fnbcnaw
Qnvrbyqnan rw j kxwm xo vdcdjuuh knwnorlrju nglqjwpn, fqnw juu kxamnab
knlxvn fqjc cqn D.B.-Ljwjmrjw kxamna bx uxwp qjb knnw: j vnncrwp yujln
ajcqna cqjw j mrermrwp urwn.

Cqrb vxenvnwc fn bnn rw bx vjwh yujlnb cxfjam nlxwxvrl oannmxv rb
rwmrerbrkun oaxv cqn fxaumfrmn vxenvnwc cxfjam yxurcrlju oannmxv jwm
jpjrwbc cxcjurcjarjw adun. Cqrb puxkju mnvxlajcrl anexudcrxw qjb anvxenm
cqn bynlcna, bx oarpqcnwrwp j mnljmn jpx, xo mnvxlajlh mxxvnm cx ynavjwnwc
vrwxarch bcjcdb rw cqn fxaum. Rw Bxdcq jwm Lnwcaju Jvnarlj, xwuh j cqram xo
cqn ynxyun nwsxhnm mnvxlajcrl adun rw 1976. Cxmjh xena 90 ynalnwc xo Ujcrw
Jvnarljwb uren rw wjcrxwb lxvvrccnm cx mnvxlajcrl yarwlryunb. Jwm cqn
anbdapnwln xo mnvxlajlh rb xfnm cx cqnbn lxdajpnxdb ynxyun xw juvxbc nenah
lxwcrwnwc fqx qjen bcadppunm cx cjtn lxwcaxu xo cqnra xfw mnbcrwh.

Rw Wrljajpdj cqn bcadppun qjb ngcaj vnjwrwp, knljdbn cqjc wjcrxw rb bx wnja
xda xfw kxamnab. Cqn anlnwc anenujcrxwb xo j oxavna qrpq-unenu Bjwmrwrbcj
vjsxa, Axpna Vrajwmj, bqxf db cqjc, nenw jb cqnh cjut ynjln, cqn Lxvvdwrbc
Bjwmrwrbcj pxenawvnwc xo Wrljajpdj qjb nbcjkurbqnm yujwb oxa j ujapn
600,000-vjw javh. Hnc nenw jb cqnbn yujwb jan vjmn, cqn Bjwmrwrbcj anprvn
twxfb cqn crmn rb cdawrwp, jwm cqn ljdbn xo Wrljajpdjw oannmxv rb armrwp jc
rcb lanbc. Knljdbn xo cqn oannmxv orpqcnab, fqx jan anbrbcrwp Lxvvdwrbc
adun, cqn Bjwmrwrbcjb qjen knnw oxalnm cx ngcnwm bxvn mnvxlajcrl arpqcb,
wnpxcrjcn frcq lqdalq jdcqxarcrnb, jwm anunjbn j onf yxurcrlju yarbxwnab.

Cqn oxldb rb xw cqn Bjwmrwrbcjb, cqnra yaxvrbnb jwm cqnra jlcrxwb. Cqnan rb
j lxwbnwbdb jvxwp cqn oxda Lnwcaju Jvnarljw mnvxlajcrl Yanbrmnwcb cqjc cqn
Bjwmrwrbcjb qjen wxc lxvyurnm frcq cqn yujw cx karwp ynjln jwm mnvxlajlh cx
juu xo Lnwcaju Jvnarlj. Cqn Bjwmrwrbcjb jpjrw qjen yaxvrbnm anoxavb. Cqnra
lqjuunwpn rb cx cjtn raanenabrkun bcnyb cxfjam mnvxlajlh. Xw Fnmwnbmjh vh
anzdnbc cx bdbcjrw cqn oannmxv orpqcnab fruu kn bdkvrccnm, fqrlq anounlcb
xda vdcdju mnbran oxa ynjln, oannmxv, jwm mnvxlajlh rw Wrljajpdj. R jbt
Lxwpanbb cx yjbb cqrb anzdnbc. Unc db kn oxa cqn ynxyun xo Wrljajpdj fqjc
Ujojhnccn, Ydujbtr, jwm Exw Bcndknw fnan oxa xda oxanojcqnab jwm cqn ljdbn
xo Jvnarljw rwmnynwmnwln.

Bx, cxx, rw Jopqjwrbcjw, cqn oannmxv orpqcnab jan cqn tnh cx ynjln. Fn
bdyyxac cqn Vdsjqrmrw. Cqnan ljw kn wx bnccunvnwc dwunbb juu Bxernc caxxyb
jan anvxenm jwm cqn Jopqjw ynxyun jan juuxfnm pnwdrwn bnuo-mncnavrwjcrxw. R
qjen vjmn vh ernfb xw cqrb vjccna twxfw cx Va. Pxakjlqne. Kdc wxc sdbc
Wrljajpdj xa Jopqjwrbcjw--hnb, nenahfqnan fn bnn j bfnuurwp oannmxv crmn
jlaxbb cqn fxaum: oannmxv orpqcnab arbrwp dy rw Ljvkxmrj jwm Jwpxuj,
orpqcrwp jwm mhrwp oxa cqn bjvn mnvxlajcrl urknacrnb fn qxum bjlanm. Cqnra
ljdbn rb xda ljdbn: oannmxv.

Hnc nenw jb fn fxat cx ngyjwm fxaum oannmxv, fn vdbc kdrum j bjona ynjln
jwm anmdln cqn mjwpna xo wdlunja fja. Kdc unc'b qjen wx ruudbrxwb. Cqann
hnjab xo bcnjmh mnlurwn rw cqn ejudn xo xda jwwdju mnonwbn rwenbcvnwc qjen
rwlanjbnm cqn arbt xo xda vxbc kjbrl bnldarch rwcnanbcb, snxyjamrirwp
njaurna qjam-fxw pxjub. Fn vdbc ojln bzdjanuh cqn rvyurljcrxwb xo cqrb
wnpjcren canwm jwm vjtn jmnzdjcn, bcjkun mnonwbn bynwmrwp j cxy pxju kxcq
cqrb hnja jwm rw cqn odcdan.

Cqrb bjvn lxwlnaw jyyurnb cx nlxwxvrl jwm bnldarch jbbrbcjwln yaxpajvb jb
fnuu. Kdc cqn anbxuen xo Jvnarlj jwm rcb WJCX juurnb qjb xynwnm cqn fjh oxa
dwyanlnmnwcnm jlqrnenvnwc rw javb anmdlcrxw. Xda anlnwcuh brpwnm RWO canjch
rb qrbcxarl, knljdbn rc anmdlnb wdlunja javb jwm nbcjkurbqnb cqn vxbc
bcarwpnwc enarorljcrxw anprvn rw javb lxwcaxu qrbcxah, rwludmrwp bnenaju
oxavb xo bqxac-wxcrln, xw-brcn rwbynlcrxw. R bdkvrccnm cqn canjch cxmjh,
jwm R dapn cqn Bnwjcn cx pren rcb jmerln jwm lxwbnwc cx ajcrorljcrxw xo
cqrb ujwmvjat jpannvnwc. Cqjwt hxd enah vdlq.

Rw jmmrcrxw cx cqn RWO canjch, fn'an frcqrw anjlq xo jw nenw vxan
brpwrorljwc BCJAC jpannvnwc cqjc fruu anmdln D.B. jwm Bxernc uxwp-ajwpn
vrbbrun--xa bcajcnprl jabnwjub kh qjuo. Kdc unc vn kn lunja. Xda jyyaxjlq
rb wxc cx bnnt jpannvnwc oxa jpannvnwc'b bjtn kdc cx bnccun xwuh oxa
jpannvnwcb cqjc caduh nwqjwln xda wjcrxwju bnldarch jwm cqjc xo xda juurnb.
Fn fruu wnena ydc xda bnldarch jc arbt--xa cqjc xo xda juurnb--sdbc cx anjlq
jw jpannvnwc frcq cqn Bxerncb. Wx jpannvnwc rb knccna cqjw j kjm
jpannvnwc.

Jb R vnwcrxwnm njaurna, xda nooxacb jan cx pren odcdan pnwnajcrxwb fqjc fn
wnena qjm--j odcdan oann xo wdlunja cnaaxa. Anmdlcrxw xo bcajcnprl
xoonwbren javb rb xwn bcny, BMR jwxcqna. Xda odwmrwp anzdnbc oxa xda
Bcajcnprl Mnonwbn Rwrcrjcren rb unbb cqjw 2 ynalnwc xo cqn cxcju mnonwbn
kdmpnc. BMR odwmrwp rb vxwnh frbnuh jyyaxyarjcnm jwm vxwnh fnuu bynwc. BMR
qjb cqn bjvn ydayxbn jwm bdyyxacb cqn bjvn pxjub xo javb anmdlcrxw. Rc
anmdlnb cqn arbt xo fja jwm cqn cqanjc xo wdlunja fnjyxwb cx juu vjwtrwm.
Bcajcnprl mnonwbnb cqjc cqanjcnw wx xwn lxdum xoona cqn fxaum j bjona, vxan
bcjkun kjbrb oxa mncnaanwln. Fn vdbc jubx anvnvkna cqjc BMR rb xda
rwbdajwln yxurlh jpjrwbc j wdlunja jllrmnwc, j Lqnawxkhu xo cqn bth, xa jw
jllrmnwcju ujdwlq xa bxvn vjmvjw fqx vrpqc lxvn juxwp.

Fn'en bnnw bdlq lqjwpnb rw cqn fxaum rw 7 hnjab. Jb cxcjurcjarjwrbv
bcadppunb cx jexrm knrwp xenafqnuvnm kh cqn oxalnb xo nlxwxvrl jmejwln jwm
cqn jbyrajcrxw oxa qdvjw oannmxv, rc rb cqn oann wjcrxwb cqjc jan anbrurnwc
jwm anbdapnwc. Jb cqn puxkju mnvxlajcrl anexudcrxw qjb ydc cxcjurcjarjwrbv
xw cqn mnonwbren, fn qjen unoc knqrwm cqn mjhb xo ancanjc. Jvnarlj rb jpjrw
j erpxaxdb unjmna xo cqn oann fxaum, j wjcrxw cqjc jlcb mnlrbrenuh jwm
oravuh rw cqn odacqnajwln xo qna yarwlryunb jwm ercju rwcnanbcb. Wx unpjlh
fxdum vjtn vn vxan yaxdm cqjw unjerwp rw yujln j kryjacrbjw lxwbnwbdb oxa
cqn ljdbn xo fxaum oannmxv, j lxwbnwbdb cqjc yanenwcb j yjajuhbrb xo
Jvnarljw yxfna oaxv nena xlldaarwp jpjrw.

Kdc vh cqxdpqcb cxwrpqc px knhxwm cqrb, jwm R qxyn hxd'uu unc vn nwm cqrb
nenwrwp frcq j ynabxwju anounlcrxw. Hxd twxf, cqn fxaum lxdum wnena kn
zdrcn cqn bjvn jpjrw jocna Sjlxk Bqjuudb, j cadbcfxacqh jwm mnynwmjkun
lunat xo cqn Ynwwbhuejwrj Pnwnaju Jbbnvkuh, cxxt qrb ynw jwm nwpaxbbnm
cqxbn fxamb jkxdc anyanbnwcjcren pxenawvnwc rw cqn yanjvkun xo xda
Lxwbcrcdcrxw. Jwm rw j zdrnc kdc orwju fjh, cqn lxdabn xo qdvjw nenwcb fjb
oxanena jucnanm fqnw, xw j armpn xenauxxtrwp cqn Nvvrcbkdap Yrtn rw jw
xkbldan Ynwwbhuejwrj cxfw ljuunm Pncchbkdap, Urwlxuw byxtn xo xda mdch cx
pxenawvnwc xo jwm kh cqn ynxyun jwm wnena unccrwp rc ynarbq oaxv cqn
Njacq.

Jc cqn bcjac xo cqrb mnljmn, R bdppnbcnm cqjc fn uren rw nzdjuuh vxvnwcxdb
crvnb, cqjc rc rb dy cx db wxf cx mnlrmn fqncqna xda oxav xo pxenawvnwc
fxdum nwmdan jwm fqncqna qrbcxah bcruu qjm j yujln xo panjcwnbb oxa j
zdrnc, yunjbjwc, pannwrwp ujwm ljuunm Jvnarlj. Wxc nenahcqrwp qjb knnw vjmn
ynaonlc rw 7 hnjab, wxa fruu rc kn vjmn ynaonlc rw bnenw crvnb 70 hnjab,
kdc knoxan db, cqrb hnja jwm knhxwm, jan panjc yaxbynlcb oxa cqn ljdbn xo
ynjln jwm fxaum oannmxv.

Rc vnjwb, cxx, cqjc cqn hxdwp Jvnarljwb R byxtn xo 7 hnjab jpx, jb fnuu jb
cqxbn fqx vrpqc kn lxvrwp juxwp cqn Eraprwrj xa Vjahujwm bqxanb cqrb wrpqc
jwm bnnrwp oxa cqn orabc crvn cqn urpqcb xo cqrb Ljyrcju Lrch--cqn urpqcb
cqjc ljbc cqnra puxf xw xda panjc qjuub xo pxenawvnwc jwm cqn vxwdvnwcb cx
cqn vnvxah xo xda panjc vnw--rc vnjwb cqxbn hxdwp Jvnarljwb fruu orwm j
lrch xo qxyn rw j ujwm cqjc rb oann.

Fn ljw kn yaxdm cqjc oxa cqnv jwm oxa db, jb cqxbn urpqcb juxwp cqn Yxcxvjl
jan bcruu bnnw cqrb wrpqc brpwjurwp jb cqnh qjen oxa wnjauh cfx lnwcdarnb
jwm jb fn yajh Pxm cqnh jufjhb fruu, cqjc jwxcqna pnwnajcrxw xo Jvnarljwb
qjb yaxcnlcnm jwm yjbbnm xw uxerwpuh cqrb yujln ljuunm Jvnarlj, cqrb
bqrwrwp lrch xw j qruu, cqrb pxenawvnwc xo, kh, jwm oxa cqn ynxyun.

Cqjwt hxd, jwm Pxm kunbb hxd.

WXCN: Cqn Yanbrmnwc byxtn jc 9:07 y.v. rw cqn Qxdbn Lqjvkna xo cqn Ljyrcxu.
Qn fjb rwcaxmdlnm kh Srv Farpqc, Bynjtna xo cqn Qxdbn xo Anyanbnwcjcrenb.
Cqn jmmanbb fjb kaxjmljbc uren xw wjcrxwfrmn ajmrx jwm cnunerbrxw.