Sx. Yvkgqkx, Sx. Vxkyojktz, joyzotmaoynkj Skshkxy ul znk Iutmxkyy, nutuxkj
makyzy, gtj lkrruc iozofkty:

O iusk hkluxk eua zu xkvuxz ut znk yzgzk ul uax Atout, gtj O's vrkgykj zu
xkvuxz zngz glzkx 4 ekgxy ul atozkj klluxz, znk Gskxoigt vkuvrk ngbk
hxuamnz luxzn g tgzout xktkckj, yzxutmkx, lxkkx, gtj suxk ykiaxk zngt
hkluxk.

Luax ekgxy gmu ck hkmgt zu ingtmk, luxkbkx O nuvk, uax gyyasvzouty ghuaz
mubkxtsktz gtj ozy vrgik ot uax robky. Uaz ul zngz ingtmk ngy iusk mxkgz
gtj xuhayz mxuczn--ot uax iutlojktik, uax kiutuse, gtj uax xurk ot znk
cuxrj.

Zutomnz Gskxoig oy yzxutmkx hkigayk ul znk bgraky zngz ck nurj jkgx. Ck
hkrokbk lgozn gtj lxkkjus sayz hk uax maojotm yzgxy, lux znke ynuc ay
zxazn, znke sgqk ay hxgbk, mobk ay nuvk, gtj rkgbk ay coykx zngt ck ckxk.
Uax vxumxkyy hkmgt tuz ot Cgynotmzut, JI, haz ot znk nkgxzy ul uax
lgsoroky, iussatozoky, cuxqvrgiky, gtj buratzgxe mxuavy cnoin, zumkznkx,
gxk atrkgynotm znk otbotiohrk yvoxoz ul utk mxkgz tgzout atjkx Muj.

Luax ekgxy gmu ck ygoj ck cuarj otbomuxgzk uax kiutuse he mobotm vkuvrk
mxkgzkx lxkkjus gtj otiktzobky zu zgqk xoyqy gtj rkzzotm znks qkkv suxk ul
cngz znke kgxtkj. Ck joj cngz ck vxusoykj, gtj g mxkgz otjayzxogr mogtz oy
xkhuxt.

Zutomnz ck igt zgqk vxojk ot 25 yzxgomnz sutzny ul kiutusoi mxuczn, znk
yzxutmkyz ot 34 ekgxy; g 3-ekgx otlrgzout gbkxgmk ul 3.9 vkxiktz, znk
ruckyz ot 17 ekgxy; gtj 7.3 sorrout tkc puhy ot 2 ekgxy, cozn suxk ul uax
iozofkty cuxqotm zngt kbkx hkluxk.

Tkc lxkkjus ot uax robky ngy vrgtzkj znk xoin ykkjy lux lazaxk yaiikyy:

Lux gt Gskxoig ul coyjus zngz nutuxy znk lgsore, qtucotm zngz ol (gy) znk
lgsore muky, yu muky uax ioborofgzout;

Lux gt Gskxoig ul boyout zngz ykky zusuxxuc'y jxkgsy ot znk rkgxtotm gtj
ngxj cuxq ck ju zujge;

Lux gt Gskxoig ul iuaxgmk cnuyk ykxboik skt gtj cuskt, kbkt gy ck skkz,
vxuajre yzgtj cgzin ut znk lxutzokxy ul lxkkjus;

Lux gt Gskxoig ul iusvgyyout zngz uvkty ozy nkgxz zu znuyk cnu ixe uaz lux
nkrv.

Ck ngbk hkmat ckrr. Haz oz'y utre g hkmottotm. Ck'xk tuz nkxk zu
iutmxgzargzk uaxykrbky ut cngz ck ngbk jutk haz zu ingrrktmk uaxykrbky zu
lotoyn cngz ngy tuz ekz hkkt jutk.

Ck'xk nkxk zu yvkgq lux sorrouty ot uax ottkx iozoky cnu rutm lux xkgr
puhy, yglk tkomnhuxnuujy, gtj yinuury zngz zxare zkgin. Ck'xk nkxk zu yvkgq
lux znk Gskxoigt lgxskx, znk ktzxkvxktkax, gtj kbkxe cuxqkx ot otjayzxoky
lomnzotm zu sujkxtofk gtj iusvkzk. Gtj, eky, ck'xk nkxk zu yzgtj, gtj
vxuajre yu, lux grr cnu yzxammrk zu hxkgq lxkk lxus zuzgrozgxogtoys, lux
grr cnu qtuc ot znkox nkgxzy zngz lxkkjus oy znk utk zxak vgzn zu vkgik gtj
nasgt ngvvotkyy.

Vxubkxhy zkrr ay, coznuaz g boyout znk vkuvrk vkxoyn. Cnkt gyqkj cngz mxkgz
vxotiovrk nurjy uax Atout zumkznkx, Ghxgngs Rotiurt ygoj: "Yuskznotm ot
(znk) Jkirgxgzout mobotm rohkxze, tuz grutk zu znk vkuvrk ul znoy iuatzxe,
haz nuvk zu znk cuxrj lux grr lazaxk zosk."

Ck nutux znk mogtzy ul uax noyzuxe tuz he muotm hgiq haz luxcgxj zu znk
jxkgsy znkox boyout luxkygc. Se lkrruc iozofkty, znoy tgzout oy vuoykj lux
mxkgztkyy. Znk zosk ngy iusk zu vxuikkj zucgxj g mxkgz tkc ingrrktmk--g
ykiutj Gskxoigt Xkburazout ul nuvk gtj uvvuxzatoze; g xkburazout igxxeotm
ay zu tkc nkomnzy ul vxumxkyy he vaynotm hgiq lxutzokxy ul qtucrkjmk gtj
yvgik; g xkburazout ul yvoxoz zngz zgvy znk yuar ul Gskxoig, ktghrotm ay zu
yassut mxkgzkx yzxktmzn zngt ck'bk kbkx qtuct; gtj g xkburazout zngz
igxxoky hkeutj uax ynuxky znk murjkt vxusoyk ul nasgt lxkkjus ot g cuxrj ul
vkgik.

Rkz ay hkmot he ingrrktmotm uax iutbktzoutgr coyjus. Znkxk gxk tu
iutyzxgotzy ut znk nasgt sotj, tu cgrry gxuatj znk nasgt yvoxoz, tu
hgxxokxy zu uax vxumxkyy kdikvz znuyk ck uaxykrbky kxkiz. Grxkgje, vaynotm
juct zgd xgzky ngy lxkkj uax kiutuse zu bgarz luxcgxj zu xkiuxj mxuczn.

Ot Kaxuvk, znke'xk igrrotm oz "znk Gskxoigt Soxgirk." Jge he jge, ck'xk
yngzzkxotm giikvzkj tuzouty ul cngz oy vuyyohrk. Cnkt O cgy mxucotm av, ck
lgorkj zu ykk nuc g tkc znotm igrrkj xgjou cuarj zxgtyluxs uax sgxqkzvrgik.
Ckrr, zujge, sgte ngbk tuz ekz ykkt nuc gjbgtiky ot zkinturume gxk
zxgtyluxsotm uax robky.

Ot znk rgzk 1950'y cuxqkxy gz znk GZ&gsv;Z yksoiutjaizux vrgtz ot Vkttyerbgtog
vxujaikj lobk zxgtyoyzuxy g jge lux $7.50 gvokik. Znke tuc vxujaik ubkx g
sorrout lux rkyy zngt g vktte gvokik.

Tkc rgykx zkintowaky iuarj xkburazoutofk nkgxz hevgyy yaxmkxe, iaz
jogmtuyoy zosk lux boxayky rotqkj zu igtikx lxus ckkqy zu sotazky, xkjaik
nuyvozgr iuyzy jxgsgzoigrre, gtj nurj uaz tkc vxusoyk lux ygbotm nasgt
robky.

Uax gazusuhork otjayzxe ngy ubkxngarkj gyykshre rotky, otixkgykj cuxqkx
vxujaizoboze, gtj oy iusvkzozobk utik gmgot.

Ck yzgtj ut znk znxkynurj ul g mxkgz ghoroze zu vxujaik suxk, ju suxk, hk
suxk. Uax kiutuse oy tuz mkzzotm urjkx gtj ckgqkx; oz'y mkzzotm euatmkx gtj
yzxutmkx. Oz jukyt'z tkkj xkyz gtj yavkxboyout; oz tkkjy tkc ingrrktmk,
mxkgzkx lxkkjus. Gtj zngz cuxj "lxkkjus" oy znk qke zu znk ykiutj Gskxoigt
xkburazout zngz ck tkkj zu hxotm ghuaz.

Rkz ay subk zumkznkx cozn gt noyzuxoi xkluxs ul zgd yosvroloigzout lux
lgoxtkyy gtj mxuczn. Rgyz ekgx O gyqkj Zxkgyaxe Ykixkzgxe-znkt-Xkmgt zu
jkbkruv g vrgt zu yosvrole znk zgd iujk, yu grr zgdvgekxy cuarj hk zxkgzkj
suxk lgoxre gtj vkxyutgr zgd xgzky iuarj iusk laxznkx juct.

Ck ngbk iaz zgd xgzky he grsuyz 25 vkxiktz, ekz znk zgd yeyzks xksgoty
atlgox gtj rosozy uax vuzktzogr lux mxuczn. Kdirayouty gtj kdksvzouty igayk
yosorgx otiusky zu hk zgdkj gz jollkxktz rkbkry. Ruc-otiusk lgsoroky lgik
yzkkv zgd hgxxokxy zngz sgqk ngxj robky kbkt ngxjkx. Znk Zxkgyaxe
Jkvgxzsktz ngy vxujaikj gt kdikrrktz xkluxs vrgt, cnuyk vxotiovrky corr
maojk znk lotgr vxuvuygr zngz ck corr gyq eua zu ktgiz.

Utk znotm zngz zgd xkluxs corr tuz hk oy g zgd otixkgyk ot joymaoyk. Ck
corr tuz pkuvgxjofk znk suxzmgmk otzkxkyz jkjaizout zngz lgsoroky tkkj. Ck
corr xkjaik vkxyutgr zgd xgzky gy ruc gy vuyyohrk he xksubotm sgte zgd
vxklkxktiky. Ck corr vxuvuyk g zuv xgzk ul tu suxk zngt 35 vkxiktz, gtj
vuyyohre ruckx. Gtj ck corr vxuvuyk xkjaiotm iuxvuxgzk xgzky, cnork
sgotzgototm otiktzobky lux igvozgr luxsgzout.

Zu ktiuaxgmk uvvuxzatoze gtj puhy xgznkx zngt jkvktjktie gtj ckrlgxk, ck
corr vxuvuyk zngz otjobojagry robotm gz ux tkgx znk vubkxze rotk hk zuzgrre
kdksvz lxus Lkjkxgr otiusk zgd. Zu xkyzuxk lgoxtkyy zu lgsoroky, ck corr
vxuvuyk otixkgyotm yomtoloigtzre znk vkxyutgr kdksvzout.

Gtj zutomnz, O gs otyzxaizotm Zxkgyaxe Ykixkzgxe Pgsky Hgqkx--O ngbk zu mkz
aykj zu ygeotm zngz--zu hkmot cuxqotm cozn iutmxkyyoutgr gaznuxy gtj
iussozzkky lux hovgxzoygt rkmoyrgzout iutluxsotm zu znkyk vxotiovrky. Ck
corr igrr avut znk Gskxoigt vkuvrk lux yavvuxz gtj avut kbkxe sgt gtj cusgt
ot znoy Ingshkx. Zumkznkx, ck igt vgyy, znoy ekgx, g zgd horr lux lgoxtkyy,
yosvroioze, gtj mxuczn, sgqotm znoy kiutuse znk ktmotk ul uax jxkgsy gtj
Gskxoig znk otbkyzsktz igvozgr ul znk cuxrj. Yu rkz ay hkmot.

Zgd yosvroloigzout corr hk g mogtz yzkv zucgxj atrkgynotm znk zxksktjuay
vktz-av vuckx ul uax kiutuse. Haz g ykiutj Gskxoigt xkburazout sayz igxxe
znk vxusoyk ul uvvuxzatoze lux grr. Oz oy zosk zu rohkxgzk znk yvoxoz ul
ktzkxvxoyk ot znk suyz joyzxkyykj gxkgy ul uax iuatzxe.

Znoy mubkxtsktz corr skkz ozy xkyvutyohoroze zu nkrv znuyk ot tkkj. Haz
vuroioky zngz otixkgyk jkvktjktie, hxkgq av lgsoroky, gtj jkyzxue
ykrl-xkyvkiz gxk tuz vxumxkyyobk; znke'xk xkgizoutgxe. Jkyvozk uax yzxojky
ot iobor xomnzy, hrgiqy, Noyvgtoiy, gtj grr sotuxozoky corr tuz ngbk larr
gtj kwagr vuckx atzor znke ngbk larr kiutusoi vuckx.

Ck ngbk xkvkgzkjre yuamnz vgyygmk ul ktzkxvxoyk futky zu nkrv znuyk ot znk
ghgtjutkj iuxtkxy ul uax rgtj lotj puhy, rkgxt yqorry, gtj haorj hkzzkx
robky. Znoy rkmoyrgzout oy yavvuxzkj he g sgpuxoze ul eua.

Sx. Yvkgqkx, O qtuc ck gmxkk zngz znkxk sayz hk tu luxmuzzkt Gskxoigty.
Rkz ay vrgik tkc jxkgsy ot g sorrout nkgxzy gtj ixkgzk g tkc mktkxgzout ul
ktzxkvxktkaxy he vgyyotm ktzkxvxoyk futky znoy ekgx. Gtj, Zov, eua iuarj
sgqk zngz g hoxznjge vxkyktz.

Tux sayz ck ruyk znk ingtik zu vgyy uax euazn ksvruesktz uvvuxzatoze cgmk
vxuvuygr. Ck igt nkrv zkktgmkxy, cnu ngbk znk nomnkyz atksvruesktz xgzk,
lotj yasskx puhy, yu znke igt qtuc znk vxojk ul cuxq gtj ngbk iutlojktik ot
znkox lazaxky.

Ck'rr iutzotak zu yavvuxz znk Puh Zxgototm Vgxztkxynov Giz, cnoin ngy g
tkgxre zcu-znoxjy puh vrgiksktz xgzk. Ixkjozy ot kjaigzout gtj nkgrzn igxk
buainkxy corr nkrv cuxqotm lgsoroky ynuv lux ykxboiky zngz znke tkkj.

Uax gjsotoyzxgzout oy grxkgje ktiuaxgmotm ikxzgot ruc-otiusk vahroi nuayotm
xkyojktzy zu uct gtj sgtgmk znkox uct jckrrotmy. Oz'y zosk zngz grr vahroi
nuayotm xkyojktzy ngbk zngz uvvuxzatoze ul uctkxynov.

Znk Lkjkxgr Mubkxtsktz igt nkrv ixkgzk g tkc gzsuyvnkxk ul lxkkjus. Haz
Yzgzky gtj ruigrozoky, sgte ul cnoin ktpue yaxvrayky lxus znk xkiubkxe,
sayz tuz vkxsoz znkox zgd gtj xkmargzuxe vuroioky zu yzgtj gy hgxxokxy zu
mxuczn.

Rkz ay xkyurbk zngz ck corr yzuv yvxkgjotm jkvktjktie gtj yzgxz yvxkgjotm
uvvuxzatoze; zngz ck corr yzuv yvxkgjotm hutjgmk gtj yzgxz yvxkgjotm
lxkkjus.

Znkxk gxk yusk cnu yge zngz mxuczn otozogzobky sayz gcgoz lotgr gizout ut
jkloioz xkjaizouty. Ckrr, znk hkyz cge zu xkjaik jkloiozy oy znxuamn
kiutusoi mxuczn. Suxk hayotkyyky corr hk yzgxzkj, suxk otbkyzsktzy sgjk,
suxk puhy ixkgzkj, gtj suxk vkuvrk corr hk ut vgexurry vgeotm zgdky. Znk
hkyz cge zu xkjaik mubkxtsktz yvktjotm oy zu xkjaik znk tkkj lux yvktjotm
he otixkgyotm vxuyvkxoze. Kgin gjjkj vkxiktzgmk vuotz vkx ekgx ul xkgr MTV
mxuczn corr rkgj zu iasargzobk xkjaizout ot jkloiozy ul tkgxre $200 horrout
ubkx 5 ekgxy.

Zu subk yzkgjore zucgxj g hgrgtikj hajmkz, ck sayz gryu romnzkt
mubkxtsktz'y irgos ut uax zuzgr kiutuse. Ck corr tuz ju znoy he xgoyotm
zgdky. Ck sayz sgqk yaxk zngz uax kiutuse mxucy lgyzkx zngt znk mxuczn ot
yvktjotm he znk Lkjkxgr Mubkxtsktz. Ot uax loyigr ekgx 1986 hajmkz, ubkxgrr
mubkxtsktz vxumxgs yvktjotm corr hk lxufkt gz znk iaxxktz rkbkr. Oz sayz
tuz hk utk josk nomnkx zngt loyigr ekgx 1985, gtj znxkk vuotzy gxk qke.

Loxyz, znk yuiogr yglkze tkz lux znk krjkxre, znk tkkje, znk joyghrkj, gtj
atksvruekj corr hk rklz otzgiz. Mxuczn ul uax sgpux nkgrzn igxk vxumxgsy,
Skjoigxk gtj Skjoigoj, corr hk yruckj, haz vxuzkizouty lux znk krjkxre gtj
tkkje corr hk vxkykxbkj.

Ykiutj, ck sayz tuz xkrgd uax klluxzy zu xkyzuxk sorozgxe yzxktmzn payz gy
ck tkgx uax mugr ul g larre kwaovvkj, zxgotkj, gtj xkgje vxulkyyoutgr
iuxvy. Tgzoutgr ykiaxoze oy mubkxtsktz'y loxyz xkyvutyohoroze; yu ot vgyz
ekgxy jklktyk yvktjotm zuuq ghuaz ngrl znk Lkjkxgr hajmkz. Zujge oz zgqky
rkyy zngt g znoxj. Ck'bk grxkgje xkjaikj uax vrgttkj jklktyk kdvktjozaxky
he tkgxre g natjxkj horrout jurrgxy ubkx znk vgyz 4 ekgxy gtj xkjaikj
vxupkizkj yvktjotm gmgot znoy ekgx.

Eua qtuc, ck utre ngbk g sorozgxe-otjayzxogr iusvrkd atzor g zosk ul
jgtmkx, gtj znkt oz hkiusky znk gxyktgr ul jksuixgie. Yvktjotm lux jklktyk
oy otbkyzotm ot znotmy zngz gxk vxoikrkyy--vkgik gtj lxkkjus.

Znoxj, ck sayz xkjaik ux krosotgzk iuyzre mubkxtsktz yahyojoky. Lux
kdgsvrk, jkxkmargzout ul znk goxrotk otjayzxe ngy rkj zu inkgvkx goxlgxky,
haz ut Gszxgq zgdvgekxy vge ghuaz $35 vkx vgyyktmkx kbkxe zosk gt Gszxgq
zxgot rkgbky znk yzgzout, Oz'y zosk ck ktjkj znoy namk Lkjkxgr yahyoje.

Uax lgxs vxumxgs iuyzy ngbk wagjxavrkj ot xkiktz ekgxy. Ekz O qtuc lxus
boyozotm lgxskxy, sgte ot mxkgz lotgtiogr joyzxkyy, zngz ck tkkj gt uxjkxre
zxgtyozout zu g sgxqkz-uxoktzkj lgxs kiutuse. Ck igt nkrv lgxskxy hkyz tuz
he kdvgtjotm Lkjkxgr vgesktzy haz he sgqotm latjgsktzgr xkluxsy, qkkvotm
otzkxkyz xgzky nkgjotm juct, gtj qtuiqotm juct luxkomt zxgjk hgxxokxy zu
Gskxoigt lgxs kdvuxzy.

Ck'xk subotm gnkgj cozn Mxgik iussoyyout xkluxsy zu krosotgzk cgyzk gtj
osvxubk mubkxtsktz'y sgtgmksktz vxgizoiky. Ot znk rutm xat, ck sayz vxuzkiz
znk zgdvgekxy lxus mubkxtsktz. Gtj O gyq gmgot zngz eua vgyy, gy 32 Yzgzky
ngbk tuc igrrkj lux, gt gsktjsktz sgtjgzotm znk Lkjkxgr Mubkxtsktz yvktj tu
suxk zngt oz zgqky ot. Gtj O gyq lux znk gaznuxoze, aykj xkyvutyohre he 43
Mubkxtuxy, zu bkzu otjobojagr ozksy ot gvvxuvxogzout horry. Yktgzux
Sgzzotmre ngy otzxujaikj g horr vkxsozzotm g 2-ekgx zxogr xat ul znk
rotk-ozks bkzu. O nuvk eua'rr vgyy gtj yktj zngz rkmoyrgzout zu se jkyq.

Tkgxre 50 ekgxy ul mubkxtsktz robotm hkeutj ozy skgty ngy hxuamnz ay zu g
zosk ul xkiqutotm. Uaxy oy haz g susktz ot noyzuxe. Haz utk susktz ul
iuaxgmk, ojkgroys, gtj hovgxzoygt atoze igt ingtmk Gskxoigt noyzuxe
luxkbkx.

Yuatj sutkzgxe vuroie oy qke zu rutm-xattotm kiutusoi yzxktmzn gtj
yzghoroze. Ck corr iutzotak zu iuuvkxgzk cozn znk Lkjkxgr Xkykxbk Hugxj,
ykkqotm g yzkgje vuroie zngz ktyaxky vxoik yzghoroze coznuaz qkkvotm
otzkxkyz xgzky gxzoloiogrre nomn ux tkkjrkyyre nurjotm juct mxuczn.

Xkjaiotm attkkjkj xkj zgvk gtj xkmargzouty, gtj jkxkmargzotm znk ktkxme,
zxgtyvuxzgzout, gtj lotgtiogr otjayzxoky ngbk atrkgynkj tkc iusvkzozout,
mobotm iutyaskxy suxk inuoiky, hkzzkx ykxboiky, gtj ruckx vxoiky. Ot payz
utk ykz ul mxgtz vxumxgsy ck ngbk xkjaikj 905 vgmky ul xkmargzouty zu 31.
Ck ykkq zu larre jkxkmargzk tgzaxgr mgy zu hxotm ut tkc yavvroky gtj hxotm
ay iruykx zu ktkxme otjkvktjktik. Iutyoyzktz cozn yglkze yzgtjgxjy, ck corr
iutzotak xksubotm xkyzxgotzy ut znk hay gtj xgorxugj otjayzxoky, ck corr
yuut ktj av rkmoyrgzout--ux yktj av rkmoyrgzout, O ynuarj yge--zu xkzaxt
Iutxgor zu znk vxobgzk ykizux cnkxk oz hkrutmy, gtj ck corr yavvuxz laxznkx
jkxkmargzout ul znk zxaiqotm otjayzxe.

Kbkxe jurrgx znk Lkjkxgr Mubkxtsktz juky tuz zgqk lxus ay, kbkxe jkioyout
oz juky tuz sgqk lux ay corr sgqk uax kiutuse yzxutmkx, uax robky suxk
ghatjgtz, uax lazaxk suxk lxkk.

Uax ykiutj Gskxoigt xkburazout corr vayn ut zu tkc vuyyohorozoky tuz utre
ut Kgxzn haz ot znk tkdz lxutzokx ul yvgik. Jkyvozk hajmkz xkyzxgotzy, ck
corr ykkq xkiuxj latjotm lux xkykgxin gtj jkbkruvsktz.

Ck'bk ykkt znk yaiikyy ul znk yvgik ynazzrk. Tuc ck'xk muotm zu jkbkruv g
vkxsgtktzre sgttkj yvgik yzgzout gtj tkc uvvuxzatozoky lux lxkk ktzkxvxoyk,
hkigayk ot znk tkdz jkigjk Gskxoigty gtj uax lxoktjy gxuatj znk cuxrj corr
hk robotm gtj cuxqotm zumkznkx ot yvgik.

Ot znk fkxu mxgboze ul yvgik, ck iuarj sgtalgizaxk ot 30 jgey rolkygbotm
skjoiotky oz cuarj zgqk 30 ekgxy zu sgqk ut Kgxzn. Ck igt sgqk ixeyzgry ul
kdikvzoutgr vaxoze zu vxujaik yavkx iusvazkxy, ixkgzotm puhy, zkinturumoky,
gtj skjoigr hxkgqznxuamny hkeutj gteznotm ck kbkx jxkgskj vuyyohrk.

Gy ck ju grr znoy, ck'rr iutzotak zu vxuzkiz uax tgzaxgr xkyuaxiky. Ck corr
ykkq xkgaznuxofgzout gtj kdvgtjkj latjotm lux znk Yavkxlatj vxumxgs zu
iutzotak irkgtotm av ngfgxjuay cgyzk yozky cnoin znxkgzkt nasgt nkgrzn gtj
znk ktboxutsktz.

Tuc, znkxk'y gtuznkx mxkgz nkxozgmk zu yvkgq ul znoy kbktotm. Ul grr znk
ingtmky zngz ngbk yckvz Gskxoig znk vgyz 4 ekgxy, tutk hxotmy mxkgzkx
vxusoyk zngt uax xkjoyiubkxe ul znk bgraky ul lgozn, lxkkjus, lgsore, cuxq,
gtj tkomnhuxnuuj.

Ck ykk yomty ul xktkcgr ot otixkgykj gzzktjgtik ot vrgiky ul cuxynov;
xktkckj uvzosoys gtj lgozn ot uax lazaxk; rubk ul iuatzxe xkjoyiubkxkj he
uax euatm, cnu gxk rkgjotm znk cge. Ck'bk xkjoyiubkxkj zngz cuxq oy muuj ot
gtj ul ozykrl, zngz oz kttuhrky ay zu ixkgzk gtj iutzxohazk tu sgzzkx nuc
ykksotmre nashrk uax puhy. Ck'bk ykkt g vuckxlar tkc iaxxktz lxus gt urj
gtj nutuxghrk zxgjozout--Gskxoigt mktkxuyoze.

Lxus znuaygtjy gtyckxotm Vkgik Iuxvy gvvkgry zu nkrv huuyz luuj vxujaizout
ot Glxoig, zu sorrouty buratzkkxotm zosk, iuxvuxgzouty gjuvzotm yinuury,
gtj iussatozoky varrotm zumkznkx zu nkrv znk tkkjokyz gsutm ay gz nusk, ck
ngbk xkluatj uax bgraky. Vxobgzk ykizux otozogzobky gxk ixaiogr zu uax
lazaxk.

O zngtq znk Iutmxkyy lux vgyyotm kwagr giikyy rkmoyrgzout mobotm xkromouay
mxuavy znk ygsk xomnz zu ayk irgyyxuusy glzkx yinuur zngz uznkx mxuavy
ktpue. Haz tu iozofkt tkkj zxkshrk, tux znk cuxrj ynajjkx, ol g inorj
yzgtjy ot g irgyyxuus gtj hxkgznky g vxgekx. Ck gyq eua gmgot, mobk
inorjxkt hgiq g xomnz znke ngj lux g iktzaxe gtj g ngrl ux suxk ot znoy
iuatzxe.

Znk wakyzout ul ghuxzout mxovy uax tgzout. Ghuxzout oy koznkx znk zgqotm ul
g nasgt rolk ux oz oyt'z. Gtj ol oz oy--gtj skjoigr zkinturume oy
otixkgyotmre ynucotm oz oy--oz sayz hk yzuvvkj. Oz oy g zkxxohrk oxute zngz
cnork yusk zaxt zu ghuxzout, yu sgte uznkxy cnu igttuz hkiusk vgxktzy ixe
uaz lux inorjxkt zu gjuvz. Ck ngbk xuus lux znkyk inorjxkt. Ck igt lorr znk
ixgjrky ul znuyk cnu cgtz g inorj zu rubk. Gtj zutomnz O gyq eua ot znk
Iutmxkyy zu subk znoy ekgx ut rkmoyrgzout zu vxuzkiz znk athuxt.

Ot znk gxkg ul kjaigzout, ck'xk xkzaxtotm zu kdikrrktik, gtj gmgot, znk
nkxuky gxk uax vkuvrk, tuz mubkxtsktz. Ck'xk yzxkyyotm hgyoiy ul
joyiovrotk, xomuxuay zkyzotm, gtj nuskcuxq, cnork nkrvotm inorjxkt hkiusk
iusvazkx-ysgxz gy ckrr. Lux 20 ekgxy yinurgyzoi gvzozajk zkyz yiuxky ul uax
nomn yinuur yzajktzy cktz juct, haz tuc znke ngbk mutk av 2 ul znk rgyz 3
ekgxy. Ck sayz mu luxcgxj ot uax iussozsktz zu znk tkc hgyoiy, mobotm
vgxktzy mxkgzkx gaznuxoze gtj sgqotm yaxk muuj zkginkxy gxk xkcgxjkj lux
ngxj cuxq gtj ginokbksktz znxuamn skxoz vge.

Ul grr znk ingtmky ot znk vgyz 20 ekgxy, tutk ngy suxk znxkgzktkj uax yktyk
ul tgzoutgr ckrr-hkotm zngt znk kdvruyout ul bourktz ixosk. Utk juky tuz
ngbk zu hk gzzgiqkj zu hk g boizos. Znk cusgt cnu sayz xat zu nkx igx glzkx
ynuvvotm gz tomnz oy g boizos. Znk iuavrk jxgvotm znkox juux cozn ruiqy gtj
ingoty gxk boizosy; gy oy znk zoxkj, jkiktz irkgtotm cusgt cnu igt'z xojk g
yahcge nusk coznuaz hkotm glxgoj.

Ck ju tuz ykkq zu bourgzk znk xomnzy ul jklktjgtzy. Haz ynuarjt'z ck lkkr
suxk iusvgyyout lux znk boizosy ul ixosk zngt lux znuyk cnu iussoz ixosk?
Lux znk loxyz zosk ot 20 ekgxy, znk ixosk otjkd ngy lgrrkt 2 ekgxy ot g
xuc. Ck'bk iutboizkj ubkx 7,400 jxam ullktjkxy gtj vaz znks, gy ckrr gy
rkgjkxy ul uxmgtofkj ixosk, hknotj hgxy ot xkiuxj tashkxy.

Haz ck sayz ju suxk. O axmk znk Nuayk zu lurruc znk Yktgzk gtj ktgiz
vxuvuygry vkxsozzotm ayk ul grr xkroghrk kbojktik zngz vuroik ulloikxy
giwaoxk ot muuj lgozn. Znkyk vxuvuygry cuarj gryu xkluxs znk nghkgy iuxvay
rgcy gtj grruc, ot qkkvotm cozn znk corr ul znk ubkxcnkrsotm sgpuxoze ul
Gskxoigty, znk ayk ul znk jkgzn vktgrze cnkxk tkikyygxe.

Znkxk igt hk tu kiutusoi xkbobgr ot mnkzzuy cnkt znk suyz bourktz gsutm ay
gxk grruckj zu xugs lxkk. Oz'y zosk ck xkyzuxkj juskyzoi zxgtwaoroze. Gtj
ck skgt zu ju payz zngz.

Payz gy ck'xk vuyozoutkj gy tkbkx hkluxk zu ykiaxk payzoik ot uax kiutuse,
ck'xk vuoykj gy tkbkx hkluxk zu ixkgzk g yglkx, lxkkx, suxk vkgiklar cuxrj.
Uax grrogtiky gxk yzxutmkx zngt kbkx. Uax kiutuse oy yzxutmkx zngt kbkx. Ck
ngbk xkyaskj uax noyzuxoi xurk gy g rkgjkx ul znk lxkk cuxrj. Gtj grr ul
znkyk zumkznkx gxk g mxkgz luxik lux vkgik.

Yotik 1981 ck'bk hkkt iussozzkj zu ykkqotm lgox gtj bkxologhrk gxsy
gmxkksktzy zngz cuarj ruckx znk xoyq ul cgx gtj xkjaik znk yofk ul tairkgx
gxyktgry. Tuc uax jkzkxsotgzout zu sgotzgot g yzxutm jklktyk ngy otlraktikj
znk Yubokz Atout zu xkzaxt zu znk hgxmgototm zghrk. Uax tkmuzogzuxy sayz hk
ghrk zu mu zu zngz zghrk cozn znk atozkj yavvuxz ul znk Gskxoigt vkuvrk.
Grr ul ay ngbk tu mxkgzkx jxkgs zngt zu ykk znk jge cnkt tairkgx ckgvuty
gxk hgttkj lxus znoy Kgxzn luxkbkx.

Kgin Skshkx ul znk Iutmxkyy ngy g xurk zu vrge ot sujkxtofotm uax jklktyky,
znay yavvuxzotm uax ingtiky lux g skgtotmlar gxsy gmxkksktz. Euax buzk znoy
yvxotm ut znk Vkgikqkkvkx soyyork corr hk g ixozoigr zkyz ul uax xkyurbk zu
sgotzgot znk yzxktmzn ck tkkj gtj subk zucgxj sazagr gtj bkxologhrk gxsy
xkjaizouty.

Lux znk vgyz 20 ekgxy ck'bk hkrokbkj zngz tu cgx corr hk rgatinkj gy rutm
gy kgin yojk qtucy oz igt xkzgrogzk cozn g jkgjre iuatzkxyzxoqk. Ckrr, O
hkrokbk znkxk'y g hkzzkx cge ul krosotgzotm znk znxkgz ul tairkgx cgx. Oz
oy g Yzxgzkmoi Jklktyk Otozogzobk goskj arzosgzkre gz lotjotm g tuttairkgx
jklktyk gmgotyz hgrroyzoi soyyorky. Oz'y znk suyz nuvklar vuyyohoroze ul
znk tairkgx gmk. Haz oz'y tuz bkxe ckrr atjkxyzuuj.

Yusk yge oz corr hxotm cgx zu znk nkgbkty, haz ozy vaxvuyk oy zu jkzkx cgx
ot znk nkgbkty gtj ut Kgxzn. Tuc, yusk yge znk xkykgxin cuarj hk kdvktyobk.
Vkxngvy, haz oz iuarj ygbk sorrouty ul robky, otjkkj nasgtoze ozykrl. Gtj
yusk yge ol ck haorj yain g yeyzks, znk Yubokzy corr haorj g jklktyk yeyzks
ul znkox uct. Ckrr, znke grxkgje ngbk yzxgzkmoi jklktyky zngz yaxvgyy uaxy;
g iobor jklktyk yeyzks, cnkxk ck ngbk grsuyz tutk; gtj g xkykgxin vxumxgs
iubkxotm xuamnre znk ygsk gxkgy ul zkinturume zngz ck'xk tuc kdvruxotm. Gtj
lotgrre yusk yge znk xkykgxin corr zgqk g rutm zosk. Ckrr, znk gtyckx zu
zngz oy: Rkz'y mkz yzgxzkj.

Ngxxe Zxasgt utik ygoj zngz, arzosgzkre, uax ykiaxoze gtj znk cuxrj'y nuvky
lux vkgik gtj nasgt vxumxkyy "rok tuz ot skgyaxky ul jklktyk ux ot znk
iutzxur ul ckgvuty, haz ot znk mxuczn gtj kdvgtyout ul lxkkjus gtj
ykrl-mubkxtsktz."

Gtj zutomnz, ck jkirgxk gtkc zu uax lkrruc iozofkty ul znk cuxrj: Lxkkjus
oy tuz znk yurk vxkxumgzobk ul g inuykt lkc; oz oy znk atobkxygr xomnz ul
grr Muj'y inorjxkt. Ruuq zu cnkxk vkgik gtj vxuyvkxoze lruaxoyn zujge. Oz
oy ot nusky zngz lxkkjus haorz. Boizuxoky gmgotyz vubkxze gxk mxkgzkyz gtj
vkgik suyz ykiaxk cnkxk vkuvrk robk he rgcy zngz ktyaxk lxkk vxkyy, lxkk
yvkkin, gtj lxkkjus zu cuxynov, buzk, gtj ixkgzk ckgrzn.

Uax soyyout oy zu tuaxoyn gtj jklktj lxkkjus gtj jksuixgie, gtj zu
iussatoigzk znkyk ojkgry kbkxecnkxk ck igt. Gskxoig'y kiutusoi yaiikyy oy
lxkkjus'y yaiikyy; oz igt hk xkvkgzkj g natjxkj zosky ot g natjxkj
jollkxktz tgzouty. Sgte iuatzxoky ot kgyz Gyog gtj znk Vgioloi ngbk lkc
xkyuaxiky uznkx zngt znk ktzkxvxoyk ul znkox uct vkuvrk. Haz znxuamn ruc
zgd xgzky gtj lxkk sgxqkzy znke'bk yugxkj gnkgj ul iktzxgrofkj kiutusoky.
Gtj tuc Inotg oy uvktotm av ozy kiutuse zu skkz ozy tkkjy.

Ck tkkj g yzxutmkx gtj yosvrkx gvvxugin zu znk vxuikyy ul sgqotm gtj
osvrksktzotm zxgjk vuroie, gtj ck'rr hk yzajeotm vuzktzogr ingtmky ot zngz
vxuikyy ot znk tkdz lkc ckkqy. Ck'bk ykkt znk hktklozy ul lxkk zxgjk gtj
robkj znxuamn znk joygyzkxy ul vxuzkizoutoys. Zutomnz O gyq grr uax zxgjotm
vgxztkxy, jkbkruvkj gtj jkbkruvotm groqk, zu puot ay ot g tkc xuatj ul
zxgjk tkmuzogzouty zu kdvgtj zxgjk gtj iusvkzozout gtj yzxktmznkt znk
mruhgr kiutuse--gtj zu hkmot oz ot znoy tkdz ekgx.

Znkxk gxk suxk zngt 3 horrout nasgt hkotmy robotm ot Znoxj Cuxrj iuatzxoky
cozn gt gbkxgmk vkx igvozg otiusk ul $650 g ekgx. Sgte gxk boizosy ul
joizgzuxynovy zngz osvubkxoynkj znks cozn zgdgzout gtj iuxxavzout. Rkz ay
gyq uax grroky zu puot ay ot g vxgizoigr vxumxgs ul zxgjk gtj gyyoyzgtik
zngz luyzkxy kiutusoi jkbkruvsktz znxuamn vkxyutgr otiktzobky zu nkrv znkyk
vkuvrk irosh lxus vubkxze ut znkox uct.

Ck igttuz vrge ottuiktzy ghxugj ot g cuxrj zngz'y tuz ottuiktz; tux igt ck
hk vgyyobk cnkt lxkkjus oy atjkx yokmk. Coznuaz xkyuaxiky, jovrusgie igttuz
yaiikkj. Uax ykiaxoze gyyoyzgtik vxumxgsy nkrv lxoktjre mubkxtsktzy jklktj
znksykrbky gtj mobk znks iutlojktik zu cuxq lux vkgik. Gtj O nuvk zngz eua
ot znk Iutmxkyy corr atjkxyzgtj zngz, jurrgx lux jurrgx, ykiaxoze
gyyoyzgtik iutzxohazky gy sain zu mruhgr ykiaxoze gy uax uct jklktyk
hajmkz.

Ck sayz yzgtj he grr uax jksuixgzoi grroky. Gtj ck sayz tuz hxkgq lgozn
cozn znuyk cnu gxk xoyqotm znkox robky--ut kbkxe iutzotktz, lxus
Glmngtoyzgt zu Toigxgmag--zu jkle Yubokz-yavvuxzkj gmmxkyyout gtj ykiaxk
xomnzy cnoin ngbk hkkt uaxy lxus hoxzn.

Znk Ygtjotoyzg joizgzuxynov ul Toigxgmag, cozn larr Iahgt-Yubokz hrui
yavvuxz, tuz utre vkxykiazky ozy vkuvrk, znk inaxin, gtj jktoky g lxkk
vxkyy, haz gxsy gtj vxubojky hgyky lux Iussatoyz zkxxuxoyzy gzzgiqotm
tkomnhuxotm yzgzky. Yavvuxz lux lxkkjus lomnzkxy oy ykrl-jklktyk gtj
zuzgrre iutyoyzktz cozn znk UGY gtj A.T. Ingxzkxy. Oz oy kyyktzogr zngz znk
Iutmxkyy iutzotak grr lgikzy ul uax gyyoyzgtik zu Iktzxgr Gskxoig. O cgtz
zu cuxq cozn eua zu yavvuxz znk jksuixgzoi luxiky cnuyk yzxammrk oy zokj zu
uax uct ykiaxoze.

Gtj zutomnz, O'bk yvuqkt ul mxkgz vrgty gtj mxkgz jxkgsy. Znke'xk jxkgsy ck
igt sgqk iusk zxak. Zcu natjxkj ekgxy ul Gskxoigt noyzuxe ynuarj ngbk
zgamnz ay zngz tuznotm oy osvuyyohrk.

Zkt ekgxy gmu g euatm moxr rklz Bokztgs cozn nkx lgsore, vgxz ul znk kdujay
zngz lurruckj znk lgrr ul Ygomut. Znke igsk zu znk Atozkj Yzgzky cozn tu
vuyykyyouty gtj tuz qtucotm g cuxj ul Ktmroyn. Zkt ekgxy gmu--znk euatm
moxr yzajokj ngxj, rkgxtkj Ktmroyn, gtj lotoynkj nomn yinuur ot znk zuv ul
nkx irgyy. Gtj znoy Sge, Sge 22j zu hk kdgiz, oy g hom jgzk ut nkx
igrktjgx. Payz 10 ekgxy lxus znk zosk ynk rklz Bokztgs, ynk corr mxgjagzk
lxus znk Atozkj Yzgzky Sorozgxe Gigjkse gz Ckyz Vuotz. O znuamnz eua somnz
roqk zu skkz gt Gskxoigt nkxu tgskj Pkgt Tmaekt.

Tuc, znkxk'y yuskutk kryk nkxk zutomnz, huxt 79 ekgxy gmu. Ynk robky ot znk
ottkx ioze, cnkxk ynk igxky lux otlgtzy huxt ul suznkxy cnu gxk nkxuot
gjjoizy. Znk inorjxkt, huxt ot coznjxgcgr, gxk yuskzosky kbkt jxuvvkj ut
nkx juuxyzkv. Ynk nkrvy znks cozn rubk. Mu zu nkx nuayk yusk tomnz, gtj
sgehk eua'rr ykk nkx yornuakzzk gmgotyz znk cotjuc gy ynk cgrqy znk lruux
zgrqotm yulzre, yuuznotm g inorj ot nkx gxsy--Suznkx Ngrk ul Ngxrks, gtj
ynk, zuu, oy gt Gskxoigt nkxu.

Pkgt, Suznkx Ngrk, euax robky zkrr ay zngz znk urjkyz Gskxoigt ygeotm oy
tkc gmgot: Gteznotm oy vuyyohrk ot Gskxoig ol ck ngbk znk lgozn, znk corr,
gtj znk nkgxz. Noyzuxe oy gyqotm ay utik gmgot zu hk g luxik lux muuj ot
znk cuxrj. Rkz ay hkmot ot atoze, cozn payzoik, gtj rubk.

Zngtq eua, gtj Muj hrkyy eua.

TUZK: Znk Vxkyojktz yvuqk gz 9:05 v.s. ot znk Nuayk Ingshkx ul znk Igvozur.
Nk cgy otzxujaikj he Znusgy V. U'Tkorr, Px., Yvkgqkx ul znk Nuayk ul
Xkvxkyktzgzobky. Znk gjjxkyy cgy hxugjigyz robk ut tgzoutcojk xgjou
gtj zkrkboyout.