Qv. Wtieoiv, Qv. Tviwmhirx, hmwxmrkymwlih Qiqfivw sj xli Gsrkviww, lsrsvih
kyiwxw, erh jippsa gmxmdirw:

Xshec qevow qc jmvwx Wxexi sj xli Yrmsr ehhviww xs csy, e gsrwxmxyxmsrep
hyxc ew sph ew syv Vityfpmg mxwipj.

Tviwmhirx Aewlmrkxsr fiker xlmw xvehmxmsr mr 1790 ejxiv viqmrhmrk xli
Rexmsr xlex xli hiwxmrc sj wipj-kszivrqirx erh xli "tviwivzexmsr sj xli
wegvih jmvi sj pmfivxc" mw "jmreppc wxeoih sr xli ibtivmqirx irxvywxih xs
xli lerhw sj xli Eqivmger tistpi." Jsv syv jvmirhw mr xli tviww, als tpegi
e lmkl tviqmyq sr eggyvegc, pix qi wec: M hmh rsx egxyeppc liev Kisvki
Aewlmrkxsr wec xlex. Fyx mx mw e qexxiv sj lmwxsvmg vigsvh.

Fyx jvsq xlmw tshmyq, Amrwxsr Glyvglmpp ewoih xli jvii asvph xs wxerh
xskixliv ekemrwx xli srwpeyklx sj ekkviwwmsr. Jveropmr Hipers Vsswizipx
wtsoi sj e hec sj mrjeqc erh wyqqsrih e rexmsr xs evqw. Hsykpew QegEvxlyv
qehi er yrjsvkixxefpi jeviaipp xs e gsyrxvc li pszih erh wivzih ws aipp.
Hamklx Imwirlsaiv viqmrhih yw xlex tiegi aew tyvglewih srpc ex xli tvmgi sj
wxvirkxl. Erh Nslr J. Oirrihc wtsoi sj xli fyvhir erh kpsvc xlex mw
jviihsq.

Alir M zmwmxih xlmw Gleqfiv pewx ciev ew e riagsqiv xs Aewlmrkxsr, gvmxmgep
sj tewx tspmgmiw almgl M fipmizih leh jempih, M tvstswih e ria wtmvmx sj
tevxrivwlmt fixaiir xlmw Gsrkviww erh xlmw ehqmrmwxvexmsr erh fixaiir
Aewlmrkxsr erh syv Wxexi erh psgep kszivrqirxw. Mr jsvkmrk xlmw ria
tevxrivwlmt jsv Eqivmge, ai gsyph eglmizi xli sphiwx lstiw sj syv
Vityfpmg--tvswtivmxc jsv syv rexmsr, tiegi jsv xli asvph, erh xli fpiwwmrkw
sj mrhmzmhyep pmfivxc jsv syv glmphvir erh, wsqihec, jsv epp sj lyqermxc.

Mx'w qc hyxc xs vitsvx xs csy xsrmklx sr xli tvskviww xlex ai lezi qehi mr
syv vipexmsrw amxl sxliv rexmsrw, sr xli jsyrhexmsr ai'zi gevijyppc pemh
jsv syv igsrsqmg vigszivc, erh jmreppc, sr e fsph erh wtmvmxih mrmxmexmzi
xlex M fipmizi ger glerki xli jegi sj Eqivmger kszivrqirx erh qeoi mx ekemr
xli wivzerx sj xli tistpi.

Wiphsq lezi xli wxeoiw fiir lmkliv jsv Eqivmge. Alex ai hs erh wec livi
ampp qeoi epp xli hmjjivirgi xs eyxsasvoivw mr Hixvsmx, pyqfivnegow mr xli
Rsvxlaiwx, wxiipasvoivw mr Wxiyfirzmppi als evi mr xli yriqtpscqirx pmriw;
xs fpego xiirekivw mr Riaevo erh Glmgeks; xs levh-tviwwih jevqivw erh wqepp
fywmriwwqir; erh xs qmppmsrw sj izivchec Eqivmgerw als levfsv xli wmqtpi
amwl sj e weji erh jmrergmeppc wigyvi jyxyvi jsv xlimv glmphvir. Xs
yrhivwxerh xli wxexi sj xli Yrmsr, ai qywx psso rsx srpc ex alivi ai evi
erh alivi ai'vi ksmrk fyx alivi ai'zi fiir. Xli wmxyexmsr ex xlmw xmqi pewx
ciev aew xvypc sqmrsyw.

Xli pewx higehi lew wiir e wivmiw sj vigiwwmsrw. Xlivi aew e vigiwwmsr mr
1970, mr 1974, erh ekemr mr xli wtvmrk sj 1980. Iegl xmqi, yriqtpscqirx
mrgviewih erh mrjpexmsr wssr xyvrih yt ekemr. Ai gsmrih xli asvh
"wxekjpexmsr" xs hiwgvmfi xlmw.

Kszivrqirx'w viwtsrwi xs xliwi vigiwwmsrw aew xs tyqt yt xli qsric wyttpc
erh mrgviewi wtirhmrk. Mr xli pewx 6 qsrxlw sj 1980, ew er ibeqtpi, xli
qsric wyttpc mrgviewih ex xli jewxiwx vexi mr tswxaev lmwxsvc--13 tivgirx.
Mrjpexmsr viqemrih mr hsyfpi hmkmxw, erh kszivrqirx wtirhmrk mrgviewih ex
er erryep vexi sj 17 tivgirx. Mrxiviwx vexiw vieglih e wxekkivmrk 21.5
tivgirx. Xlivi aivi 8 qmppmsr yriqtpscih.

Pexi mr 1981 ai wero mrxs xli tviwirx vigiwwmsr, pevkipc figeywi gsrxmryih
lmkl mrxiviwx vexiw lyvx xli eyxs mrhywxvc erh gsrwxvygxmsr. Erh xlivi aew
e hvst mr tvshygxmzmxc, erh xli epviehc lmkl yriqtpscqirx mrgviewih.

Xlmw xmqi, lsaiziv, xlmrkw evi hmjjivirx. Ai lezi er igsrsqmg tvskveq mr
tpegi, gsqtpixipc hmjjivirx jvsq xli evxmjmgmep uymgo jmbiw sj xli tewx. Mx
geppw jsv e vihygxmsr sj xli vexi sj mrgviewi mr kszivrqirx wtirhmrk, erh
epviehc xlex vexi lew fiir gyx rievpc mr lepj. Fyx vihygih wtirhmrk xli
jmvwx erh wqeppiwx tlewi sj e 3-ciev xeb vexi vihygxmsr hiwmkrih xs
wxmqypexi xli igsrsqc erh gviexi nsfw. Epviehc mrxiviwx vexiw evi hsar xs
15 3/4 tivgirx, fyx xlic qywx wxmpp ks psaiv. Mrjpexmsr mw hsar jvsq 12.4
tivgirx xs 8.9, erh jsv xli qsrxl sj Higiqfiv mx aew vyrrmrk ex er
erryepmdih vexi sj 5.2 tivgirx. Mj ai leh rsx egxih ew ai hmh, xlmrkw asyph
fi jev asvwi jsv epp Eqivmgerw xler xlic evi xshec. Mrjpexmsr, xebiw, erh
mrxiviwx vexiw asyph epp fi lmkliv.

E ciev eks, Eqivmgerw' jemxl mr xlimv kszivrqirxep tvsgiww aew wxiehmpc
higpmrmrk. Wmb syx sj 10 Eqivmgerw aivi wecmrk xlic aivi tiwwmqmwxmg efsyx
xlimv jyxyvi. E ria omrh sj hijiexmwq aew lievh. Wsqi wemh syv hsqiwxmg
tvsfpiqw aivi yrgsrxvsppefpi, xlex ai leh xs pievr xs pmzi amxl xlmw
wiiqmrkpc irhpiww gcgpi sj lmkl mrjpexmsr erh lmkl yriqtpscqirx.

Xlivi aivi epws tiwwmqmwxmg tvihmgxmsrw efsyx xli vipexmsrwlmt fixaiir syv
ehqmrmwxvexmsr erh xlmw Gsrkviww. Mx aew wemh ai gsyph riziv asvo xskixliv.
Aipp, xlswi tvihmgxmsrw aivi avsrk. Xli vigsvh mw gpiev, erh M fipmizi xlex
lmwxsvc ampp viqiqfiv xlmw ew er ive sj Eqivmger viriaep, viqiqfiv xlmw
ehqmrmwxvexmsr ew er ehqmrmwxvexmsr sj glerki, erh viqiqfiv xlmw Gsrkviww
ew e Gsrkviww sj hiwxmrc.

Xskixliv, ai rsx srpc gyx xli mrgviewi mr kszivrqirx wtirhmrk rievpc mr
lepj, ai fvsyklx efsyx xli pevkiwx xeb vihygxmsrw erh xli qswx waiitmrk
glerkiw mr syv xeb wxvygxyvi wmrgi xli fikmrrmrk sj xlmw girxyvc. Erh
figeywi ai mrhibih jyxyvi xebiw xs xli vexi sj mrjpexmsr, ai xsso eaec
kszivrqirx'w fympx-mr tvsjmx sr mrjpexmsr erh mxw lmhhir mrgirxmzi xs kvsa
pevkiv ex xli ibtirwi sj Eqivmger asvoivw.

Xskixliv, ejxiv 50 cievw sj xeomrk tsaiv eaec jvsq xli lerhw sj xli tistpi
mr xlimv Wxexiw erh psgep gsqqyrmxmiw, ai lezi wxevxih vixyvrmrk tsaiv erh
viwsyvgiw xs xliq.

Xskixliv, ai lezi gyx xli kvsaxl sj ria Jihivep vikypexmsrw rievpc mr lepj.
Mr 1981 xlivi aivi 23,000 jiaiv tekiw mr xli Jihivep Vikmwxiv, almgl pmwxw
ria vikypexmsrw, xler xlivi aivi mr 1980. Fc hivikypexmrk smp ai'zi gsqi
gpswiv xs eglmizmrk irivkc mrhitirhirgi erh liptih fvmrk hsar xli gswx sj
kewspmri erh liexmrk jyip.

Xskixliv, ai lezi gviexih er ijjigxmzi Jihivep wxvmoi jsvgi xs gsqfex aewxi
erh jveyh mr kszivrqirx. Mr nywx 6 qsrxlw mx lew wezih xli xebtecivw qsvi
xler $2 fmppmsr, erh mx'w srpc kixxmrk wxevxih.

Xskixliv ai'zi fikyr xs qsfmpmdi xli tvmzexi wigxsv, rsx xs hytpmgexi
aewxijyp erh hmwgvihmxih kszivrqirx tvskveqw, fyx xs fvmrk xlsywerhw sj
Eqivmgerw mrxs e zspyrxiiv ijjsvx xs lipt wspzi qerc sj Eqivmge'w wsgmep
tvsfpiqw.

Xskixliv ai'zi fikyr xs viwxsvi xlex qevkmr sj qmpmxevc wejixc xlex irwyviw
tiegi. Syv gsyrxvc'w yrmjsvq mw fimrk asvr srgi ekemr amxl tvmhi.

Xskixliv ai lezi qehi e Ria Fikmrrmrk, fyx ai lezi srpc fikyr.

Rs sri tvixirhw xlex xli aec elieh ampp fi iewc. Mr qc Mreykyvep Ehhviww
pewx ciev, M aevrih xlex xli "mppw ai wyjjiv lezi gsqi ytsr yw sziv wizivep
higehiw. Xlic ampp rsx ks eaec mr hecw, aiiow, sv qsrxlw, fyx xlic ampp ks
eaec . . . figeywi ai ew Eqivmgerw lezi xli getegmxc rsa, ew ai'zi leh mx
mr xli tewx, xs hs alexiziv riihw xs fi hsri xs tviwivzi xlmw pewx erh
kviexiwx fewxmsr sj jviihsq."

Xli igsrsqc ampp jegi hmjjmgypx qsqirxw mr xli qsrxlw elieh. Fyx xli
tvskveq jsv igsrsqmg vigszivc xlex mw mr tpegi ampp typp xli igsrsqc syx sj
mxw wpyqt erh tyx yw sr xli vseh xs tvswtivmxc erh wxefpi kvsaxl fc xli
pexxiv lepj sj xlmw ciev. Erh xlex mw alc M ger vitsvx xs csy xsrmklx xlex
mr xli riev jyxyvi xli wxexi sj xli Yrmsr erh xli igsrsqc ampp fi
fixxiv--qygl fixxiv--mj ai wyqqsr xli wxvirkxl xs gsrxmryi sr xli gsyvwi
xlex ai'zi glevxih.

Erh ws, xli uyiwxmsr: Mj xli jyrheqirxepw evi mr tpegi, alex rsa? Aipp, xas
xlmrkw. Jmvwx, ai qywx yrhivwxerh alex'w lettirmrk ex xli qsqirx xs xli
igsrsqc. Syv gyvvirx tvsfpiqw evi rsx xli tvshygx sj xli vigszivc tvskveq
xlex'w srpc nywx rsa kixxmrk yrhivaec, ew wsqi asyph lezi csy fipmizi; xlic
evi xli mrlivmxergi sj higehiw sj xeb erh xeb erh wtirh erh wtirh.

Wigsrh, figeywi syv igsrsqmg tvsfpiqw evi hiitpc vssxih erh ampp rsx
viwtsrh xs uymgo tspmxmgep jmbiw, ai qywx wxmgo xs syv gevijyppc mrxikvexih
tper jsv vigszivc. Xlex tper mw fewih sr jsyv gsqqsrwirwi jyrheqirxepw:
gsrxmryih vihygxmsr sj xli kvsaxl mr Jihivep wtirhmrk; tviwivzmrk xli
mrhmzmhyep erh fywmriww xeb vihygxmsrw xlex ampp wxmqypexi wezmrk erh
mrziwxqirx; viqszmrk yrrigiwwevc Jihivep vikypexmsrw xs wtevo tvshygxmzmxc;
erh qemrxemrmrk e liepxlc hsppev erh e wxefpi qsrixevc tspmgc, xli pexxiv e
viwtsrwmfmpmxc sj xli Jihivep Viwivzi Wcwxiq.

Xli srpc epxivrexmzi fimrk sjjivih xs xlmw igsrsqmg tvskveq mw e vixyvr xs
xli tspmgmiw xlex kezi yw e xvmppmsr-hsppev hifx, vyreaec mrjpexmsr,
vyreaec mrxiviwx vexiw erh yriqtpscqirx. Xli hsyfxivw asyph lezi yw xyvr
fego xli gpsgo amxl xeb mrgviewiw xlex asyph sjjwix xli tivwsrep xeb vexi
vihygxmsrw epviehc tewwih fc xlmw Gsrkviww. Vemwi tviwirx xebiw xs gyx
jyxyvi hijmgmxw, xlic xipp yw. Aipp, M hsr'x fipmizi ai wlsyph fyc xlex
evkyqirx.

Xlivi evi xss qerc mqtsrhivefpiw jsv ercsri xs tvihmgx hijmgmxw sv
wyvtpywiw wizivep cievw elieh amxl erc hikvii sj eggyvegc. Xli fyhkix mr
tpegi, alir M xsso sjjmgi, leh fiir tvsnigxih ew fepergih. Mx xyvrih syx xs
lezi sri sj xli fmkkiwx hijmgmxw mr lmwxsvc. Ersxliv ibeqtpi sj xli
mqtsrhivefpiw xlex ger qeoi hijmgmx tvsnigxmsrw lmklpc uyiwxmsrefpi--e
glerki sj srpc sri tivgirxeki tsmrx mr yriqtpscqirx ger epxiv e hijmgmx yt
sv hsar fc wsqi $25 fmppmsr.

Ew mx rsa wxerhw, syv jsvigewx, almgl ai'vi viuymvih fc pea xs qeoi, ampp
wlsa qensv hijmgmxw wxevxmrk ex piww xler e lyrhvih fmppmsr hsppevw erh
higpmrmrk, fyx wxmpp xss lmkl. Qsvi mqtsvxerx, ai'vi qeomrk tvskviww amxl
xli xlvii oicw xs vihygmrk hijmgmxw: igsrsqmg kvsaxl, psaiv mrxiviwx vexiw,
erh wtirhmrk gsrxvsp. Xli tspmgmiw ai lezi mr tpegi ampp vihygi xli hijmgmx
wxiehmpc, wyvipc, erh mr xmqi, gsqtpixipc.

Lmkliv xebiw asyph rsx qier psaiv hijmgmxw. Mj xlic hmh, lsa asyph ai
ibtpemr xlex xeb viziryiw qsvi xler hsyfpih nywx wmrgi 1976; cix mr xlex
weqi 6-ciev tivmsh ai ver xli pevkiwx wivmiw sj hijmgmxw mr syv lmwxsvc. Mr
1980 xeb viziryiw mrgviewih fc $54 fmppmsr, erh mr 1980 ai leh sri sj syv
epp-xmqi fmkkiwx hijmgmxw. Vemwmrk xebiw asr'x fepergi xli fyhkix; mx ampp
irgsyveki qsvi kszivrqirx wtirhmrk erh piww tvmzexi mrziwxqirx. Vemwmrk
xebiw ampp wpsa igsrsqmg kvsaxl, vihygi tvshygxmsr, erh hiwxvsc jyxyvi
nsfw, qeomrk mx qsvi hmjjmgypx jsv xlswi amxlsyx nsfw xs jmrh xliq erh qsvi
pmoipc xlex xlswi als rsa lezi nsfw gsyph pswi xliq. Ws, M ampp rsx ewo csy
xs xvc xs fepergi xli fyhkix sr xli fegow sj xli Eqivmger xebtecivw.

M ampp wiio rs xeb mrgviewiw xlmw ciev, erh M lezi rs mrxirxmsr sj
vixviexmrk jvsq syv fewmg tvskveq sj xeb vipmij. M tvsqmwi xs fvmrk xli
Eqivmger tistpi--xs fvmrk xlimv xeb vexiw hsar erh xs oiit xliq hsar, xs
tvszmhi xliq mrgirxmziw xs vifymph syv igsrsqc, xs wezi, xs mrziwx mr
Eqivmge'w jyxyvi. M ampp wxerh fc qc asvh. Xsrmklx M'q yvkmrk xli Eqivmger
tistpi: Wimdi xliwi ria sttsvxyrmxmiw xs tvshygi, xs wezi, xs mrziwx, erh
xskixliv ai'pp qeoi xlmw igsrsqc e qmklxc irkmri sj jviihsq, lsti, erh
tvswtivmxc ekemr.

Rsa, xli fyhkix hijmgmx xlmw ciev ampp ibgiih syv ievpmiv ibtigxexmsrw. Xli
vigiwwmsr hmh xlex. Mx psaivih viziryiw erh mrgviewih gswxw. Xs wsqi
ibxirx, ai'vi epws zmgxmqw sj syv sar wyggiww. Ai'zi fvsyklx mrjpexmsr hsar
jewxiv xler ai xlsyklx ai gsyph, erh mr hsmrk xlmw, ai'zi hitvmzih
kszivrqirx sj xlswi lmhhir viziryiw xlex sggyv alir mrjpexmsr tywliw tistpi
mrxs lmkliv mrgsqi xeb fvegoixw. Erh xli gsrxmryih lmkl mrxiviwx vexiw pewx
ciev gswx xli kszivrqirx efsyx $5 fmppmsr qsvi xler erxmgmtexih.

Ai qywx gyx syx qsvi rsriwwirxmep kszivrqirx wtirhmrk erh vsyx syx qsvi
aewxi, erh ai ampp gsrxmryi syv ijjsvxw xs vihygi xli ryqfiv sj iqtpsciiw
mr xli Jihivep asvo jsvgi fc 75,000.

Xli fyhkix tper M wyfqmx xs csy sr Jifvyevc 8xl ampp viepmdi qensv wezmrkw
fc hmwqerxpmrk xli Hitevxqirxw sj Irivkc erh Ihygexmsr erh fc ipmqmrexmrk
mrijjigxmzi wyfwmhmiw jsv fywmriww. Ai'pp gsrxmryi xs vihmvigx syv
viwsyvgiw xs syv xas lmkliwx fyhkix tvmsvmxmiw--e wxvsrk rexmsrep hijirwi
xs oiit Eqivmge jvii erh ex tiegi erh e vipmefpi wejixc rix sj wsgmep
tvskveqw jsv xlswi als lezi gsrxvmfyxih erh xlswi als evi mr riih.

Gsrxvevc xs wsqi sj xli amph glevkiw csy qec lezi lievh, xlmw
ehqmrmwxvexmsr lew rsx erh ampp rsx xyvr mxw fego sr Eqivmge'w iphivpc sv
Eqivmge'w tssv. Yrhiv xli ria fyhkix, jyrhmrk jsv wsgmep mrwyvergi tvskveqw
ampp fi qsvi xler hsyfpi xli eqsyrx wtirx srpc 6 cievw eks. Fyx mx asyph fi
jsspmwl xs tvixirh xlex xliwi sv erc tvskveqw gerrsx fi qehi qsvi ijjmgmirx
erh igsrsqmgep.

Xli irxmxpiqirx tvskveqw xlex qeoi yt syv wejixc rix jsv xli xvypc riihc
lezi asvxlc ksepw erh qerc hiwivzmrk vigmtmirxw. Ai ampp tvsxigx xliq. Fyx
xlivi'w srpc sri aec xs wii xs mx xlex xliwi tvskveqw vieppc lipt xlswi
alsq xlic aivi hiwmkrih xs lipt. Erh xlex mw xs fvmrk xlimv wtmvepmrk gswxw
yrhiv gsrxvsp.

Xshec ai jegi xli efwyvh wmxyexmsr sj e Jihivep fyhkix amxl xlvii-uyevxivw
sj mxw ibtirhmxyviw vsyxmripc vijivvih xs ew "yrgsrxvsppefpi." Erh e pevki
tevx sj xlmw ksiw xs irxmxpiqirx tvskveqw.

Gsqqmxxii ejxiv gsqqmxxii sj xlmw Gsrkviww lew lievh amxriww ejxiv amxriww
hiwgvmfi qerc sj xliwi tvskveqw ew tssvpc ehqmrmwxivih erh vmji amxl aewxi
erh jveyh. Zmvxyeppc izivc Eqivmger als wlstw mr e psgep wytivqevoix mw
eaevi sj xli hempc efywiw xlex xeoi tpegi mr xli jssh wxeqt tvskveq, almgl
lew kvsar fc 16,000 tivgirx mr xli pewx 15 cievw. Ersxliv ibeqtpi mw
Qihmgevi erh Qihmgemh--tvskveqw amxl asvxlc ksepw fyx alswi gswxw lezi
mrgviewih jvsq 11.2 fmppmsr xs epqswx 60 fmppmsr, qsvi xler 5 xmqiw ew
qygl, mr nywx 10 cievw.

Aewxi erh jveyh evi wivmsyw tvsfpiqw. Fego mr 1980 Jihivep mrziwxmkexsvw
xiwxmjmih fijsvi sri sj csyv gsqqmxxiiw xlex "gsvvytxmsr lew tivqiexih
zmvxyeppc izivc evie sj xli Qihmgevi erh Qihmgemh liepxl gevi mrhywxvc."
Sri sjjmgmep wemh qerc sj xli tistpi als evi gliexmrk xli wcwxiq aivi "zivc
gsrjmhirx xlex rsxlmrk aew ksmrk xs lettir xs xliq." Aipp, wsqixlmrk mw
ksmrk xs lettir. Rsx srpc xli xebtecivw evi hijveyhih; xli tistpi amxl viep
hitirhirgc sr xliwi tvskveqw evi hitvmzih sj alex xlic riih, figeywi
ezempefpi viwsyvgiw evi ksmrk rsx xs xli riihc, fyx xs xli kviihc.

Xli xmqi lew gsqi xs gsrxvsp xli yrgsrxvsppefpi. Mr Eykywx ai qehi e wxevx.
M wmkrih e fmpp xs vihygi xli kvsaxl sj xliwi tvskveqw fc $44 fmppmsr sziv
xli ribx 3 cievw almpi ex xli weqi xmqi tviwivzmrk iwwirxmep wivzmgiw jsv
xli xvypc riihc. Wlsvxpc csy ampp vigimzi jvsq qi e qiwweki sr jyvxliv
vijsvqw ai mrxirh xs mrwxepp--wsqi ria, fyx sxlivw psrk vigsqqirhih fc csyv
sar gsrkviwwmsrep gsqqmxxiiw. M ewo csy xs lipt qeoi xliwi wezmrkw jsv xli
Eqivmger xebteciv.

Xli wezmrkw ai tvstswi mr irxmxpiqirx tvskveqw ampp xsxep wsqi $63 fmppmsr
sziv 4 Cievw erh ampp, amxlsyx ejjigxmrk wsgmep x wigyvmxc, ks e psrk aec
xsaevh fvmrkmrk Jihivep wtirhmrk yrhiv gsrxvsp.

Fyx hsr'x fi jsspih fc xlswi als tvsgpemq xlex wtirhmrk gyxw ampp hitvmzi
xli iphivpc, xli riihc, erh xli liptpiww. Xli. Jihivep Kszivrqirx ampp
wxmpp wyfwmhmdi 95 qmppmsr qiepw izivc hec. Xlex'w sri syx sj wizir sj epp
xli qiepw wivzih mr Eqivmge. Lieh Wxevx, wirmsv ryxvmxmsr tvskveqw, erh
glmph aipjevi tvskveqw ampp rsx fi gyx jvsq xli pizipw ai tvstswih pewx
ciev. Qsvi xler sri-lepj fmppmsr hsppevw lew fiir tvstswih jsv qmrsvmxc
fywmriww ewwmwxergi. Erh viwievgl ex xli Rexmsrep Mrwxmxyxi sj Liepxl ampp
fi mrgviewih fc sziv $100 qmppmsr. Almpi qiixmrk epp xliwi riihw, ai mrxirh
xs tpyk yraevverxih xeb psstlspiw erh wxvirkxlir xli pea almgl viuymviw epp
pevki gsvtsvexmsrw xs tec e qmrmqyq xeb.

M eq gsrjmhirx xli igsrsqmg tvskveq ai'zi tyx mrxs stivexmsr ampp tvsxigx
xli riihc almpi mx xvmkkivw e vigszivc xlex ampp firijmx epp Eqivmgerw. Mx
ampp wxmqypexi xli igsrsqc, viwypx mr mrgviewih wezmrkw erh tvszmhi getmxep
jsv ibterwmsr, qsvxkekiw jsv lsqifymphmrk, erh nsfw jsv xli yriqtpscih.

Rsa xlex xli iwwirxmepw sj xlex tvskveq evi mr tpegi, syv ribx qensv
yrhivxeomrk qywx fi e tvskveq--nywx ew fsph, nywx ew mrrszexmzi--xs qeoi
kszivrqirx ekemr eggsyrxefpi xs xli tistpi, xs qeoi syv wcwxiq sj
jihivepmwq asvo ekemr.

Syv gmxmdirw jiip xlic'zi pswx gsrxvsp sj izir xli qswx fewmg higmwmsrw
qehi efsyx xli iwwirxmep wivzmgiw sj kszivrqirx, wygl ew wglsspw, aipjevi,
vsehw, erh izir kevfeki gsppigxmsr. Erh xlic'vi vmklx. E qedi sj
mrxivpsgomrk nyvmwhmgxmsrw erh pizipw sj kszivrqirx gsrjvsrxw eziveki
gmxmdirw mr xvcmrk xs wspzi izir xli wmqtpiwx sj tvsfpiqw. Xlic hsr'x orsa
alivi xs xyvr jsv erwaivw, als xs lsph eggsyrxefpi, als xs tvemwi, als xs
fpeqi, als xs zsxi jsv sv ekemrwx. Xli qemr viewsr jsv xlmw mw xli
szivtsaivmrk kvsaxl sj Jihivep kverxw-mr-emh tvskveqw hyvmrk xli tewx jia
higehiw.

Mr 1960 xli Jihivep Kszivrqirx leh 132 gexiksvmgep kverx tvskveqw, gswxmrk
$7 fmppmsr. Alir M xsso sjjmgi, xlivi aivi ettvsbmqexipc 500, gswxmrk
rievpc e lyrhvih fmppmsr hsppevw--13 tvskveqw jsv irivkc, 36 jsv tsppyxmsr
gsrxvsp, 66 jsv wsgmep wivzmgiw, 90 jsv ihygexmsr. Erh livi mr xli
Gsrkviww, mx xeoiw ex piewx 166 gsqqmxxiiw nywx xs xvc xs oiit xvego sj
xliq.

Csy orsa erh M orsa xlex rimxliv xli Tviwmhirx rsv xli Gsrkviww ger
tvstivpc szivwii xlmw nyrkpi sj kverxw-mr-emh; mrhiih, xli kvsaxl sj xliwi
kverxw lew pih xs xli hmwxsvxmsr mr xli zmxep jyrgxmsrw sj kszivrqirx. Ew
sri Hiqsgvexmg Kszivrsv tyx mx vigirxpc: Xli Rexmsrep Kszivrqirx wlsyph fi
asvvcmrk efsyx "evqw gsrxvsp, rsx tsxlspiw."

Xli kvsaxl mr xliwi Jihivep tvskveqw lew--mr xli asvhw sj sri
mrxivkszivrqirxep gsqqmwwmsr--qehi xli Jihivep Kszivrqirx "qsvi tivzewmzi,
qsvi mrxvywmzi, qsvi yrqerekiefpi, qsvi mrijjigxmzi erh gswxpc, erh efszi
epp, qsvi (yr) eggsyrxefpi." Pix'w wspzi xlmw tvsfpiq amxl e wmrkpi, fsph
wxvsoi: xli vixyvr sj wsqi $47 fmppmsr mr Jihivep tvskveqw xs Wxexi erh
psgep kszivrqirx, xskixliv amxl xli qierw xs jmrergi xliq erh e xverwmxmsr
tivmsh sj rievpc 10 cievw xs ezsmh yrrigiwwevc hmwvytxmsr.

M ampp wlsvxpc wirh xlmw Gsrkviww e qiwweki hiwgvmfmrk xlmw tvskveq. M aerx
xs iqtlewmdi, lsaiziv, xlex mxw jypp hixempw ampp lezi fiir asvoih syx srpc
ejxiv gpswi gsrwypxexmsr amxl gsrkviwwmsrep, Wxexi, erh psgep sjjmgmepw.

Wxevxmrk mr jmwgep 1984, xli Jihivep Kszivrqirx ampp ewwyqi jypp
viwtsrwmfmpmxc jsv xli gswx sj xli vetmhpc kvsamrk Qihmgemh tvskveq xs ks
epsrk amxl mxw ibmwxmrk viwtsrwmfmpmxc jsv Qihmgevi. Ew tevx sj e
jmrergmeppc iuyep waet, xli Wxexiw ampp wmqypxerisywpc xeoi jypp
viwtsrwmfmpmxc jsv Emh xs Jeqmpmiw amxl Hitirhirx Glmphvir erh jssh wxeqtw.
Xlmw ampp qeoi aipjevi piww gswxpc erh qsvi viwtsrwmzi xs kirymri riih,
figeywi mx'pp fi hiwmkrih erh ehqmrmwxivih gpswiv xs xli kveww vssxw erh
xli tistpi mx wivziw.

Mr 1984 xli Jihivep Kszivrqirx ampp ettpc xli jypp tvsgiihw jvsq givxemr
ibgmwi xebiw xs e kveww vssxw xvywx jyrh xlex ampp fipsrk mr jemv wleviw xs
xli 50 Wxexiw. Xli xsxep eqsyrx jpsamrk mrxs xlmw jyrh ampp fi $28 fmppmsr
e ciev. Sziv xli ribx 4 cievw xli Wxexiw ger ywi xlmw qsric mr imxliv sj
xas aecw. Mj xlic aerx xs gsrxmryi vigimzmrk Jihivep kverxw mr wygl eview
ew xverwtsvxexmsr, ihygexmsr, erh wsgmep wivzmgiw, xlic ger ywi xlimv xvywx
jyrh qsric xs tec jsv xli kverxw. Sv xs xli ibxirx xlic glsswi xs jsvks xli
Jihivep kverx tvskveqw, xlic ger ywi xlimv xvywx jyrh qsric sr xlimv sar
jsv xlswi sv sxliv tyvtswiw. Xlivi ampp fi e qerhexsvc teww-xlvsykl sj tevx
sj xliwi jyrhw xs psgep kszivrqirxw.

Fc 1988 xli Wxexiw ampp fi mr gsqtpixi gsrxvsp sj sziv 40 Jihivep kverx
tvskveqw. Xli xvywx jyrh ampp wxevx xs tlewi syx, izirxyeppc xs hmwettiev,
erh xli ibgmwi xebiw ampp fi xyvrih sziv xs xli Wxexiw. Xlic ger xlir
tviwivzi, psaiv, sv vemwi xebiw sr xlimv sar erh jyrh erh qereki xliwi
tvskveqw ew xlic wii jmx.

Mr e wmrkpi wxvsoi ai ampp fi eggsqtpmwlmrk e viepmkrqirx xlex ampp irh
gyqfivwsqi ehqmrmwxvexmsr erh wtmvepmrk gswxw ex xli Jihivep pizip almpi ai
irwyvi xliwi tvskveqw ampp fi qsvi viwtsrwmzi xs fsxl xli tistpi xlic'vi
qierx xs lipt erh xli tistpi als tec jsv xliq.

Lerh mr lerh amxl xlmw tvskveq xs wxvirkxlir xli hmwgvixmsr erh jpibmfmpmxc
sj Wxexi erh psgep kszivrqirxw, ai'vi tvstswmrk pikmwpexmsr jsv er
ibtivmqirxep ijjsvx xs mqtvszi erh hizipst syv hitviwwih yvfer eview mr xli
1980'w erh '90'w. Xlmw pikmwpexmsr ampp tivqmx Wxexiw erh psgepmxmiw xs
ettpc xs xli Jihivep Kszivrqirx jsv hiwmkrexmsr ew yvfer irxivtvmwi dsriw.
E fvseh verki sj wtigmep igsrsqmg mrgirxmziw mr xli dsriw ampp lipt exxvegx
ria fywmriww, ria nsfw, ria sttsvxyrmxc xs Eqivmge'w mrriv gmxmiw erh vyvep
xsarw. Wsqi ampp wec syv qmwwmsr mw xs wezi jvii irxivtvmwi. Aipp, M wec ai
qywx jvii irxivtvmwi ws xlex xskixliv ai ger wezi Eqivmge.

Wsqi ampp epws wec syv Wxexiw erh psgep gsqqyrmxmiw evi rsx yt xs xli
gleppirki sj e ria erh gviexmzi tevxrivwlmt. Aipp, xlex qmklx lezi fiir
xvyi 20 cievw eks fijsvi vijsvqw pmoi viettsvxmsrqirx erh xli Zsxmrk Vmklxw
Egx, xli 10-ciev ibxirwmsr sj almgl M wxvsrkpc wyttsvx. Mx'w rs psrkiv xvyi
xshec. Xlmw ehqmrmwxvexmsr lew jemxl mr Wxexi erh psgep kszivrqirxw erh xli
gsrwxmxyxmsrep fepergi irzmwmsrih fc xli Jsyrhmrk Jexlivw. Ai epws fipmizi
mr xli mrxikvmxc, higirgc, erh wsyrh, kssh wirwi sj kveww vssxw Eqivmgerw.

Syv jemxl mr xli Eqivmger tistpi mw vijpigxih mr ersxliv qensv irhiezsv.
Syv tvmzexi wigxsv mrmxmexmziw xewo jsvgi mw wiiomrk syx wyggiwwjyp
gsqqyrmxc qshipw sj wglssp, glyvgl, fywmriww, yrmsr, jsyrhexmsr, erh gmzmg
tvskveqw xlex lipt gsqqyrmxc riihw. Wygl kvsytw evi epqswx mrzevmefpc jev
qsvi ijjmgmirx xler kszivrqirx mr vyrrmrk wsgmep tvskveqw.

Ai'vi rsx ewomrk xliq xs vitpegi hmwgevhih erh sjxir hmwgvihmxih kszivrqirx
tvskveqw hsppev jsv hsppev, wivzmgi jsv wivzmgi. Ai nywx aerx xs lipt xliq
tivjsvq xli kssh asvow xlic glsswi erh lipt sxlivw xs tvsjmx fc xlimv
ibeqtpi. Xlvii lyrhvih erh imklxc-jmzi xlsywerh gsvtsvexmsrw erh tvmzexi
svkermdexmsrw evi epviehc asvomrk sr wsgmep tvskveqw verkmrk jvsq hvyk
vilefmpmxexmsr xs nsf xvemrmrk, erh xlsywerhw qsvi Eqivmgerw lezi avmxxir
yw ewomrk lsa xlic ger lipt. Xli zspyrxiiv wtmvmx mw wxmpp epmzi erh aipp
mr Eqivmge.

Syv rexmsr'w psrk nsyvric xsaevhw gmzmp vmklxw jsv epp syv gmxmdirw--srgi
e wsyvgi sj hmwgsvh, rsa e wsyvgi sj tvmhi--qywx gsrxmryi amxl rs
fegowpmhmrk sv wpsamrk hsar. Ai qywx erh wlepp wii xlex xlswi fewmg peaw
xlex kyeverxii iuyep vmklxw evi tviwivzih erh, alir rigiwwevc,
wxvirkxlirih.

Syv gsrgivr jsv iuyep vmklxw jsv asqir mw jmvq erh yrwleoefpi. Ai peyrglih
e ria Xewo Jsvgi sr Pikep Iuymxc jsv Asqir erh e Jmjxc Wxexiw Tvsnigx xlex
ampp ibeqmri Wxexi peaw jsv hmwgvmqmrexsvc perkyeki. Erh jsv xli jmvwx xmqi
mr syv lmwxsvc, e asqer wmxw sr xli lmkliwx gsyvx mr xli perh.

Ws, xss, xli tvsfpiq sj gvmqi--sri ew viep erh hiehpc wivmsyw ew erc mr
Eqivmge xshec. Mx hiqerhw xlex ai wiio xverwjsvqexmsr sj syv pikep wcwxiq,
almgl szivpc tvsxigxw xli vmklxw sj gvmqmrepw almpi mx pieziw wsgmixc erh
xli mrrsgirx zmgxmqw sj gvmqi amxlsyx nywxmgi.

Ai psso jsvaevh xs xli iregxqirx sj e viwtsrwmfpi gpier emv egx xs mrgviewi
nsfw almpi gsrxmrymrk xs mqtvszi xli uyepmxc sj syv emv. Ai'vi irgsyvekih
fc xli fmtevxmwer mrmxmexmzi sj xli Lsywi erh evi lstijyp sj jyvxliv
tvskviww ew xli Wirexi gsrxmryiw mxw hipmfivexmsrw.

Ws jev, M'zi gsrgirxvexih pevkipc, rsa, sr hsqiwxmg qexxivw. Xs zmia xli
wxexi sj xli Yrmsr mr tivwtigxmzi, ai qywx rsx mkrsvi xli viwx sj xli
asvph. Xlivi mwr'x xmqi xsrmklx jsv e pirkxlc xviexqirx sj wsgmep--sv
jsvimkr tspmgc, M wlsyph wec, e wyfnigx M mrxirh xs ehhviww mr hixemp mr
xli riev jyxyvi. E jia asvhw, lsaiziv, evi mr svhiv sr xli tvskviww ai'zi
qehi sziv xli tewx ciev, viiwxefpmwlmrk viwtigx jsv syv rexmsr evsyrh xli
kpsfi erh wsqi sj xli gleppirkiw erh ksepw xlex ai ampp ettvsegl mr xli
ciev elieh.

Ex Sxxeae erh Gergyr, M qix amxl piehivw sj xli qensv mrhywxvmep tsaivw erh
hizipstmrk rexmsrw. Rsa, wsqi sj xlswi M qix amxl aivi e pmxxpi wyvtvmwih
xlex M hmhr'x etspskmdi jsv Eqivmge'w aiepxl. Mrwxieh, M wtsoi sj xli
wxvirkxl sj xli jvii qevoixtpegi wcwxiq erh lsa xlex wcwxiq gsyph lipt xliq
viepmdi xlimv ewtmvexmsrw jsv igsrsqmg hizipstqirx erh tspmxmgep jviihsq. M
fipmizi pewxmrk jvmirhwlmtw aivi qehi, erh xli jsyrhexmsr aew pemh jsv
jyxyvi gsstivexmsr.

Mr xli zmxep vikmsr sj xli Gevmffier Fewmr, ai'vi hizipstmrk e tvskveq sj
emh, xvehi, erh mrziwxqirx mrgirxmziw xs tvsqsxi wipj-wywxemrmrk kvsaxl erh
e fixxiv, qsvi wigyvi pmji jsv syv rimklfsvw xs xli wsyxl. Xsaevh xlswi als
asyph ibtsvx xivvsvmwq erh wyfzivwmsr mr xli Gevmffier erh ipwialivi,
iwtigmeppc Gyfe erh Pmfce, ai ampp egx amxl jmvqriww.

Syv jsvimkr tspmgc mw e tspmgc sj wxvirkxl, jemvriww, erh fepergi. Fc
viwxsvmrk Eqivmge'w qmpmxevc gvihmfmpmxc, fc tyvwymrk tiegi ex xli
riksxmexmrk xefpi aliviziv fsxl wmhiw evi amppmrk xs wmx hsar mr kssh
jemxl, erh fc vikemrmrk xli viwtigx sj Eqivmge'w eppmiw erh ehzivwevmiw
epmoi, ai lezi wxvirkxlirih syv gsyrxvc'w tswmxmsr ew e jsvgi jsv tiegi erh
tvskviww mr xli asvph.

Alir egxmsr mw geppih jsv, ai'vi xeomrk mx. Syv wergxmsrw ekemrwx xli
qmpmxevc hmgxexsvwlmt xlex lew exxiqtxih xs gvywl lyqer vmklxw mr
Tsperh--erh ekemrwx xli Wszmix vikmqi filmrh xlex qmpmxevc
hmgxexsvwlmt--gpievpc hiqsrwxvexih xs xli asvph xlex Eqivmge ampp rsx
gsrhygx "fywmriww ew ywyep" amxl xli jsvgiw sj sttviwwmsr. Mj xli izirxw mr
Tsperh gsrxmryi xs hixivmsvexi, jyvxliv qiewyviw ampp jsppsa.

Rsa, pix qi epws rsxi xlex tvmzexi Eqivmger kvsytw lezi xeoir xli pieh mr
qeomrk Neryevc 30xl e hec sj wspmhevmxc amxl xli tistpi sj Tsperh. Ws, xss,
xli Iyvstier Tevpmeqirx lew geppih jsv Qevgl 21wx xs fi er mrxivrexmsrep
hec sj wyttsvx jsv Ejklermwxer. Aipp, M yvki epp tiegi-pszmrk tistpiw xs
nsmr xskixliv sr xlswi hecw, xs vemwi xlimv zsmgiw, xs wtieo erh tvec jsv
jviihsq.

Qieralmpi, ai'vi asvomrk jsv vihygxmsr sj evqw erh qmpmxevc egxmzmxmiw, ew
M errsyrgih mr qc ehhviww xs xli Rexmsr pewx Rsziqfiv 18xl. Ai lezi
tvstswih xs xli Wszmix Yrmsr e jev-vieglmrk ekirhe jsv qyxyep vihygxmsr sj
qmpmxevc jsvgiw erh lezi epviehc mrmxmexih riksxmexmsrw amxl xliq mr Kirize
sr mrxivqihmexi-verki rygpiev jsvgiw. Mr xlswi xepow mx mw iwwirxmep xlex
ai riksxmexi jvsq e tswmxmsr sj wxvirkxl. Xlivi qywx fi e viep mrgirxmzi
jsv xli Wszmixw xs xeoi xliwi xepow wivmsywpc. Xlmw viuymviw xlex ai
vifymph syv hijirwiw.

Mr xli pewx higehi, almpi ai wsyklx xli qshivexmsr sj Wszmix tsaiv xlvsykl
e tvsgiww sj viwxvemrx erh eggsqqshexmsr, xli Wszmixw irkekih mr er
yrvipirxmrk fymphyt sj xlimv qmpmxevc jsvgiw. Xli tvsxigxmsr sj syv
rexmsrep wigyvmxc lew viuymvih xlex ai yrhivxeoi e wyfwxerxmep tvskveq xs
irlergi syv qmpmxevc jsvgiw.

Ai lezi rsx rikpigxih xs wxvirkxlir syv xvehmxmsrep eppmergiw mr Iyvsti erh
Ewme, sv xs hizipst oic vipexmsrwlmtw amxl syv tevxrivw mr xli Qmhhpi Iewx
erh sxliv gsyrxvmiw. Fymphmrk e qsvi tiegijyp asvph viuymviw e wsyrh
wxvexikc erh xli rexmsrep viwspzi xs fego mx yt. Alir vehmgep jsvgiw
xlviexir syv jvmirhw, alir igsrsqmg qmwjsvxyri gviexiw gsrhmxmsrw sj
mrwxefmpmxc, alir wxvexikmgeppc zmxep tevxw sj xli asvph jepp yrhiv xli
wlehsa sj Wszmix tsaiv, syv viwtsrwi ger qeoi xli hmjjivirgi fixaiir
tiegijyp glerki sv hmwsvhiv erh zmspirgi. Xlex'w alc ai'zi pemh wygl wxviww
rsx srpc sr syv sar hijirwi fyx sr syv zmxep jsvimkr ewwmwxergi tvskveq.
Csyv vigirx tewweki sj xli Jsvimkr Ewwmwxergi Egx wirx e wmkrep xs xli
asvph xlex Eqivmge ampp rsx wlvmro jvsq qeomrk xli mrziwxqirxw rigiwwevc
jsv fsxl tiegi erh wigyvmxc. Syv jsvimkr tspmgc qywx fi vssxih mr viepmwq,
rsx remzixi sv wipj-hipywmsr.

E vigskrmxmsr sj alex xli Wszmix iqtmvi mw efsyx mw xli wxevxmrk tsmrx.
Amrwxsr Glyvglmpp, mr riksxmexmrk amxl xli Wszmixw, sfwivzih xlex xlic
viwtigx srpc wxvirkxl erh viwspzi mr xlimv hiepmrkw amxl sxliv rexmsrw.
Xlex'w alc ai'zi qszih xs vigsrwxvygx syv rexmsrep hijirwiw. Ai mrxirh xs
oiit xli tiegi. Ai ampp epws oiit syv jviihsq.

Ai lezi qehi tpihkiw sj e ria jveroriww mr syv tyfpmg wxexiqirxw erh
asvphamhi fvsehgewxw. Mr xli jegi sj e gpmqexi sj jepwilssh erh
qmwmrjsvqexmsr, ai'zi tvsqmwih xli asvph e wiewsr sj xvyxl--xli xvyxl sj
syv kviex gmzmpmdih mhiew: mrhmzmhyep pmfivxc, vitviwirxexmzi kszivrqirx,
xli vypi sj pea yrhiv Ksh. Ai'zi riziv riihih aeppw sv qmrijmiphw sv fevfih
amvi xs oiit syv tistpi mr. Rsv hs ai higpevi qevxmep pea xs oiit syv
tistpi jvsq zsxmrk jsv xli omrh sj kszivrqirx xlic aerx.

Ciw, ai lezi syv tvsfpiqw; ciw, ai'vi mr e xmqi sj vigiwwmsr. Erh mx'w
xvyi, xlivi'w rs uymgo jmb, ew M wemh, xs mrwxerxpc irh xli xvekmg temr sj
yriqtpscqirx. Fyx ai ampp irh mx. Xli tvsgiww lew epviehc fikyr, erh ai'pp
wii mxw ijjigx ew xli ciev ksiw sr.

Ai wtieo amxl tvmhi erh ehqmvexmsr sj xlex pmxxpi ferh sj Eqivmgerw als
szivgeqi mrwytivefpi shhw xs wix xlmw rexmsr sr gsyvwi 200 cievw eks. Fyx
syv kpsvc hmhr'x irh amxl xliq. Eqivmgerw iziv wmrgi lezi iqypexih xlimv
hiihw.

Ai hsr'x lezi xs xyvr xs syv lmwxsvc fssow jsv livsiw. Xlic'vi epp evsyrh
yw. Sri als wmxw eqsrk csy livi xsrmklx itmxsqmdih xlex livsmwq ex xli irh
sj xli psrkiwx mqtvmwsrqirx iziv mrjpmgxih sr qir sj syv Evqih Jsvgiw. Als
ampp iziv jsvkix xlex rmklx alir ai aemxih jsv xipizmwmsr xs fvmrk yw xli
wgiri sj xlex jmvwx tperi perhmrk ex Gpevo Jmiph mr xli Tlmpmttmriw,
fvmrkmrk syv TSA'w lsqi? Xli tperi hssv stirih erh Niviqmel Hirxsr geqi
wpsapc hsar xli veqt. Li geyklx wmklx sj syv jpek, wepyxih mx, wemh, "Ksh
fpiww Eqivmge," erh xlir xleroih yw jsv fvmrkmrk lmq lsqi.

Nywx 2 aiiow eks, mr xli qmhwx sj e xivvmfpi xvekihc sr xli Tsxsqeg, ai wea
ekemr xli wtmvmx sj Eqivmger livsmwq ex mxw jmriwx--xli livsmwq sj
hihmgexih viwgyi asvoivw wezmrk gvewl zmgxmqw jvsq mgc aexivw. Erh ai wea
xli livsmwq sj sri sj syv csyrk kszivrqirx iqtpsciiw, Pirrc Woyxrmo, als,
alir li wea e asqer pswi liv kvmt sr xli lipmgstxiv pmri, hmzih mrxs xli
aexiv erh hvekkih liv xs wejixc.

Erh xlir xlivi evi gsyrxpiww, uymix, izivchec livsiw sj Eqivmger als
wegvmjmgi psrk erh levh ws xlimv glmphvir ampp orsa e fixxiv pmji xler
xlic'zi orsar; glyvgl erh gmzmg zspyrxiivw als lipt xs jiih, gpsxli, ryvwi,
erh xiegl xli riihc; qmppmsrw als'zi qehi syv rexmsr erh syv rexmsr'w
hiwxmrc ws zivc wtigmep--yrwyrk livsiw als qec rsx lezi viepmdih xlimv sar
hvieqw xliqwipziw fyx xlir als vimrziwx xlswi hvieqw mr xlimv glmphvir.
Hsr'x pix ercsri xipp csy xlex Eqivmge'w fiwx hecw evi filmrh liv, xlex xli
Eqivmger wtmvmx lew fiir zeruymwlih. Ai'zi wiir mx xvmyqtl xss sjxir mr syv
pmziw xs wxst fipmizmrk mr mx rsa.

E lyrhvih erh xairxc cievw eks, xli kviexiwx sj epp syv Tviwmhirxw
hipmzivih lmw wigsrh Wxexi sj xli Yrmsr qiwweki mr xlmw Gleqfiv. "Ai gerrsx
iwgeti lmwxsvc," Efveleq Pmrgspr aevrih. "Ai sj xlmw Gsrkviww erh xlmw
ehqmrmwxvexmsr ampp fi viqiqfivih mr wtmxi sj syvwipziw." Xli "xvmep
xlvsykl almgl ai teww ampp pmklx yw hsar, mr lsrsv sv hmwlsrsv, xs xli
pexiwx (pewx) kirivexmsr."

Aipp, xlex Tviwmhirx erh xlex Gsrkviww hmh rsx jemp xli Eqivmger tistpi.
Xskixliv xlic aiexlivih xli wxsvq erh tviwivzih xli Yrmsr. Pix mx fi wemh
sj yw xlex ai, xss, hmh rsx jemp; xlex ai, xss, asvoih xskixliv xs fvmrk
Eqivmge xlvsykl hmjjmgypx xmqiw. Pix yw ws gsrhygx syvwipziw xlex xas
girxyvmiw jvsq rsa, ersxliv Gsrkviww erh ersxliv Tviwmhirx, qiixmrk mr xlmw
Gleqfiv ew ai evi qiixmrk, ampp wtieo sj yw amxl tvmhi, wecmrk xlex ai qix
xli xiwx erh tviwivzih jsv xliq mr xlimv hec xli wegvih jpeqi sj
pmfivxc--xlmw pewx, fiwx lsti sj qer sr Ievxl.

Ksh fpiww csy, erh xlero csy.

RSXI: Xli Tviwmhirx wtsoi ex 9 t.q. mr xli Lsywi Gleqfiv ex xli Getmxsp.
Li aew mrxvshygih fc Xlsqew T. S'Rimpp, Nv., Wtieoiv sj xli Lsywi sj
Vitviwirxexmziw. Xli ehhviww aew fvsehgewx pmzi sr rexmsramhi vehms
erh xipizmwmsr.