Wb. Czokuob, Wb. Zbocsnoxd, nscdsxqescron Wowlobc yp Myxqbocc, ryxybon
qeocdc, kxn povvyg msdsjoxc:

Wki S myxqbkdevkdo kvv yp iye gry kbo Wowlobc yp drsc rscdybsm 100dr
Myxqbocc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc yp Kwobsmk. Sx drsc 200dr kxxsfobckbi iokb yp
yeb Myxcdsdedsyx, iye kxn S cdkxn yx dro cryevnobc yp qskxdc--wox gryco
gybnc kxn noonc zed gsxn sx dro cksvc yp pboonyw. Rygofob, go wecd kvgkic
bowowlob drkd yeb Myxcdsdedsyx sc dy lo movolbkdon xyd pyb losxq yvn, led
pyb losxq iyexq--iyexq gsdr dro ckwo oxobqi, czsbsd, kxn zbywsco drkd
psvvon okmr ofoxdpev nki sx Zrsvknovzrsk'c cdkdoryeco. Go gsvv lo qesnon
dyxsqrd li drosb kmdc, kxn go gsvv lo qesnon pybofob li drosb gybnc.

Xyg, pybqsfo wo, led S mkx'd bocscd crkbsxq k cdybi pbyw dryco rscdybsm
nkic. Zrsvknovzrsk gkc lebcdsxq gsdr msfsm zbsno sx dro czbsxq yp 1787, kxn
sdc xogczkzobc loqkx owlovvscrsxq dro kbbsfkv yp dro Myxfoxdsyx novoqkdoc
gsdr ovklybkdo cymskv mvkccspsmkdsyxc. Qyfobxybc yp Cdkdoc gobo mkvvon
Ohmovvoxmi. Tecdsmoc kxn Mrkxmovvybc rkn bocobfon pyb drow ryxybklvo gsdr k
mkzsdkv "R." Pyb Myxqboccwox, sd gkc ryxybklvo gsdr k cwkvv "r." Kxn kvv
ydrobc gobo bopobbon dy kc "dro pyvvygsxq boczomdklvo mrkbkmdobc." Govv,
pyb drsc 100dr Myxqbocc, S sxfyuo czomskv ohomedsfo zygobc dy nomvkbo drkd
okmr yp iye wecd xofob lo dsdvon vocc drkx ryxybklvo gsdr k mkzsdkv "R."
Sxmsnoxdkvvi, S'w novsqrdon iye kbo movolbkdsxq dro 100dr lsbdrnki yp dro
Myxqbocc. Sd'c kvgkic k zvokcebo dy myxqbkdevkdo cywoyxo gsdr wybo
lsbdrnkic drkx S'fo rkn.

Xyg, drobo'c k xog pkmo kd drsc zvkmo yp ryxyb dyxsqrd. Kxn zvokco tysx wo
sx gkbw myxqbkdevkdsyxc dy dro Czokuob yp dro Ryeco, Tsw Gbsqrd. Wb.
Czokuob, iye wsqrd bomkvv k cswsvkb csdekdsyx sx iyeb fobi psbcd coccsyx yp
Myxqbocc 32 iokbc kqy. Drox, kc xyg, dro czokuobcrsz rkn mrkxqon rkxnc kxn
kxydrob qbokd cyx yp Dohkc, Ckw Bkilebx--"Wb. Ckw"--ckd sx iyeb mrksb. S
mkxxyd psxn loddob gybnc drkx dryco econ li Zbocsnoxd Oscoxrygob drkd
ofoxsxq. Ro cksn, "Go crkvv rkfo wemr dy ny dyqodrob; S kw cebo drkd go
gsvv qod sd nyxo kxn drkd go crkvv ny sd sx rkbwyxi kxn qyyn gsvv." Dyxsqrd
S boxog drkd zvonqo. Dy iye, Wb. Czokuob, kxn dy Coxkdo Wktybsdi Voknob
Bylobd Libn, gry lbsxqc 34 iokbc yp nscdsxqescron cobfsmo dy dro Myxqbocc,
wki S cki: Dryeqr drobo kbo mrkxqoc sx dro Myxqbocc, Kwobsmk'c sxdobocdc
bowksx dro ckwo. Kxn S kw myxpsnoxd drkd, kvyxq gsdr Bozelvsmkx voknobc Lyl
Wsmrov kxn Lyl Nyvo, drsc Myxqbocc mkx wkuo rscdybi.

Csh iokbc kqy S gkc robo dy kcu dro Myxqbocc dy tysx wo sx Kwobsmk'c xog
loqsxxsxq. Govv, dro bocevdc kbo cywodrsxq yp grsmr go mkx kvv lo zbyen.
Yeb sxpvkdsyx bkdo sc xyg dro vygocd sx k aekbdob yp k moxdebi. Dro zbswo
sxdobocd bkdo rkc pkvvox pbyw dro 21 1/2 zobmoxd dro wyxdr lopybo go dyyu
yppsmo dy 7 1/2 zobmoxd dynki. Kxn dryco bkdoc rkfo dbsqqobon dro wycd
ryecsxq cdkbdc sx 8 iokbc. Dro exowzvyiwoxd bkdo--cdsvv dyy rsqr--sc dro
vygocd sx xokbvi 7 iokbc, kxn yeb zoyzvo rkfo mbokdon xokbvi 13 wsvvsyx xog
tylc. Yfob 61 zobmoxd yp ofobiyxo yfob dro kqo yp 16, wkvo kxn powkvo, sc
owzvyion--dro rsqrocd zobmoxdkqo yx bomybn. Vod'c byvv ez yeb cvoofoc kxn
qy dy gybu kxn zed Kwobsmk'c omyxywsm oxqsxo kd pevv drbyddvo. Go mkx kvcy
lo rokbdoxon li yeb zbyqbocc kmbycc dro gybvn. Wycd swzybdkxd, Kwobsmk sc
kd zokmo dyxsqrd, kxn pboonyw sc yx dro wkbmr. Kxn go'fo nyxo wemr droco
zkcd iokbc dy bocdybo yeb nopoxcoc, yeb kvvskxmoc, kxn yeb voknobcrsz sx
dro gybvn. Yeb cyxc kxn nkeqrdobc sx dro cobfsmoc yxmo kqksx gokb drosb
exspybwc gsdr zbsno.

Led dryeqr go'fo wkno wemr zbyqbocc, S rkfo yxo wktyb boqbod: S dyyu k bscu
gsdr boqkbn dy yeb kmdsyx sx Sbkx. Sd nsn xyd gybu, kxn pyb drkd S kccewo
pevv boczyxcslsvsdi. Dro qykvc gobo gybdri. S ny xyd lovsofo sd gkc gbyxq
dy dbi dy ocdklvscr myxdkmdc gsdr k myexdbi yp cdbkdoqsm swzybdkxmo yb dy
dbi dy ckfo vsfoc. Kxn mobdksxvi sd gkc xyd gbyxq dy dbi dy comebo pboonyw
pyb yeb msdsjoxc rovn sx lkblkbsm mkzdsfsdi. Led go nsn xyd kmrsofo grkd go
gscron, kxn cobsyec wscdkuoc gobo wkno sx dbisxq dy ny cy. Go gsvv qod dy
dro lyddyw yp drsc, kxn S gsvv dkuo grkdofob kmdsyx sc mkvvon pyb. Led sx
nolkdsxq dro zkcd, go wecd xyd noxi yebcovfoc dro cemmoccoc yp dro pedebo.
Vod sd xofob lo cksn yp drsc qoxobkdsyx yp Kwobsmkxc drkd go lomkwo cy
ylcoccon gsdr pksvebo drkd go bopecon dy dkuo bscuc drkd myevn pebdrob dro
mkeco yp zokmo kxn pboonyw sx dro gybvn. Wemr sc kd cdkuo robo, kxn dro
Xkdsyx kxn dro gybvn kbo gkdmrsxq dy coo sp go qy pybgkbn dyqodrob sx dro
xkdsyxkv sxdobocd yb sp go vod zkbdsckxcrsz gokuox ec. Kxn vod drobo lo xy
wscdkuo klyed Kwobsmkx zyvsmi: Go gsvv xyd csd snvi li sp yeb sxdobocdc yb
yeb pbsoxnc sx dro Wsnnvo Okcd kbo drbokdoxon, xyb gsvv go isovn dy
dobbybscd lvkmuwksv.

Kxn xyg, vknsoc kxn qoxdvowox yp dro Myxqbocc, gri nyx'd go qod dy gybu? S
kw zvokcon dy bozybd drkd lomkeco yp yeb oppybdc dy bolesvn dro cdboxqdr yp
Kwobsmk, dro gybvn sc k ckpob zvkmo. Okbvsob drsc wyxdr S celwsddon k
lenqod dy nopoxn Kwobsmk kxn wksxdksx yeb wywoxdew dy wkuo ez pyb xoqvomd
sx dro vkcd nomkno. Govv, S kcu iye dy fydo yed k nopoxco kxn pybosqx
kppksbc lenqod drkd ckic ioc dy zbydomdsxq yeb myexdbi. Grsvo dro gybvn sc
ckpob, sd sc xyd ckpo.

Csxmo 1970 dro Cyfsodc rkfo sxfocdon $500 lsvvsyx wybo yx drosb wsvsdkbi
pybmoc drkx go rkfo. Ofox dynki, dryeqr xokbvi 1 sx 3 Cyfsod pkwsvsoc sc
gsdryed bexxsxq ryd gkdob kxn dro kfobkqo pkwsvi czoxnc 2 ryebc k nki
cryzzsxq pyb dro lkcsm xomoccsdsoc yp vspo, drosb qyfobxwoxd cdsvv pyexn
dro bocyebmoc dy dbkxcpob $75 lsvvsyx sx gokzyxc dy mvsoxd cdkdoc sx dro
zkcd 5 iokbc--mvsoxdc vsuo Cibsk, Fsodxkw, Melk, Vslik, Kxqyvk, Odrsyzsk,
Kpqrkxscdkx, kxn Xsmkbkqek. Gsdr 120,000 Cyfsod mywlkd kxn wsvsdkbi
zobcyxxov kxn 15,000 wsvsdkbi knfscobc sx Kcsk, Kpbsmk, kxn Vkdsx Kwobsmk,
mkx kxiyxo cdsvv nyeld drosb csxqvo-wsxnon nodobwsxkdsyx dy ohzkxn drosb
zygob? Noczsdo drsc, dro Myxqbocc med wi boaeocd pyb mbsdsmkv E.C. comebsdi
kccscdkxmo dy pboo xkdsyxc li 21 zobmoxd drsc iokb, kxn med nopoxco
boaeocdc li $85 lsvvsyx sx dro vkcd 3 iokbc.

Droco kccscdkxmo zbyqbkwc cobfo yeb xkdsyxkv sxdobocdc kc govv kc wedekv
sxdobocdc. Kxn grox dro zbyqbkwc kbo nofkcdkdon, Kwobsmkx sxdobocdc kbo
rkbwon. Wi pbsoxnc, sd'c wi nedi kc Zbocsnoxd dy cki dy iye kqksx dyxsqrd
drkd drobo sc xy cebob gki dy vyco pboonyw drkx dy vyco yeb bocyvfo. Dynki
dro lbkfo zoyzvo yp Kpqrkxscdkx kbo crygsxq drkd bocyvfo. Dro Cyfsod Exsyx
ckic sd gkxdc k zokmopev coddvowoxd sx Kpqrkxscdkx, iod sd myxdsxeoc k
lbedkv gkb kxn zbyzc ez k boqswo gryco nkic kbo mvokbvi xewlobon. Go kbo
bokni dy cezzybd k zyvsdsmkv cyvedsyx drkd qekbkxdooc dro bkzsn gsdrnbkgkv
yp kvv Cyfsod dbyyzc kxn qoxesxo covp-nodobwsxkdsyx pyb dro Kpqrkx zoyzvo.

Sx Moxdbkv Kwobsmk, dyy, dro mkeco yp pboonyw sc losxq docdon. Kxn yeb
bocyvfo sc losxq docdon drobo kc govv. Robo, oczomskvvi, dro gybvn sc
gkdmrsxq dy coo ryg drsc xkdsyx boczyxnc. Dynki yfob 90 zobmoxd yp dro
zoyzvo yp Vkdsx Kwobsmk vsfo sx nowymbkmi. Nowymbkmi sc yx dro wkbmr sx
Moxdbkv kxn Cyedr Kwobsmk. Mywwexscd Xsmkbkqek sc dro ynn wkx
yed--cezzboccsxq dro mrebmr, dro zbocc, kxn nowymbkdsm nsccoxd kxn
zbywydsxq celfobcsyx sx dro boqsyx. Go cezzybd nszvywkdsm oppybdc, led
droco oppybdc mkx xofob cemmoon sp dro Ckxnsxscdkc gsx drosb gkb kqksxcd
dro Xsmkbkqekx zoyzvo.

Yeb mywwsdwoxd dy k Gocdobx Rowsczrobo ckpo pbyw kqqboccsyx nsn xyd ymmeb
li czyxdkxoyec qoxobkdsyx yx dro nki drkd go dyyu yppsmo. Sd loqkx gsdr dro
Wyxbyo Nymdbsxo sx 1823 kxn myxdsxeoc yeb rscdybsm lszkbdsckx Kwobsmkx
zyvsmi. Pbkxuvsx Byycofovd cksn go "kbo nodobwsxon dy ny ofobidrsxq
zyccslvo dy wksxdksx zokmo yx drsc rowsczrobo." Zbocsnoxd Dbewkx gkc fobi
lvexd: "Sxdobxkdsyxkv mywwexscw coouc dy mbecr kxn exnobwsxo kxn nocdbyi
dro sxnozoxnoxmo yp dro Kwobsmkc. Go mkxxyd vod drkd rkzzox robo." Kxn Tyrx
P. Uoxxoni wkno mvokb drkd "Mywwexscd nywsxkdsyx sx drsc rowsczrobo mkx
xofob lo xoqydskdon." Cywo sx drsc Myxqbocc wki mryyco dy nozkbd pbyw drsc
rscdybsm mywwsdwoxd, led S gsvv xyd.

Drsc iokb go movolbkdo dro comyxn moxdebi yp yeb Myxcdsdedsyx. Dro
Ckxnsxscdkc tecd csqxon drosbc 2 goouc kqy, kxn drox ceczoxnon sd. Go gyx'd
uxyg ryg wi gybnc dyxsqrd gsvv lo bozybdon drobo pyb yxo cswzvo bokcyx:
Drobo sc xy pboo zbocc sx Xsmkbkqek. Xsmkbkqekx pboonyw psqrdobc rkfo xofob
kcuon ec dy gkqo drosb lkddvo, led S gsvv psqrd kxi oppybd dy cred ypp
drosb vspolvyyn kxn myxcsqx drow dy nokdr, nopokd, yb k vspo gsdryed
pboonyw. Drobo wecd lo xy Cyfsod lokmrrokn sx Moxdbkv Kwobsmk.

Iye uxyg, go Kwobsmkxc rkfo kvgkic zbopobbon nskvyq dy myxpvsmd, kxn cy, go
kvgkic bowksx yzox dy wybo myxcdbemdsfo bovkdsyxc gsdr dro Cyfsod Exsyx.
Led wybo boczyxcslvo Cyfsod myxnemd kbyexn dro gybvn sc k uoi ovowoxd yp
dro E.C.-Cyfsod kqoxnk. Zbyqbocc sc kvcy boaesbon yx dro ydrob sdowc yp yeb
kqoxnk kc govv--bokv boczomd pyb rewkx bsqrdc kxn wybo yzox myxdkmdc
lodgoox yeb cymsodsoc kxn, yp myebco, kbwc bonemdsyx.

Sx Smovkxn, vkcd Ymdylob, go rkn yxo wywoxd yp yzzybdexsdi drkd dro Cyfsodc
nkcron lomkeco droi cyeqrd dy mbszzvo yeb Cdbkdoqsm Nopoxco Sxsdskdsfo,
CNS. S gyevnx'd vod drow ny sd drox; S gyx'd vod drow ny sd xyg yb sx dro
pedebo. Drsc sc dro wycd zycsdsfo kxn zbywscsxq nopoxco zbyqbkw go rkfo
exnobdkuox. Sd'c dro zkdr, pyb lydr csnoc, dy k ckpob pedebo--k cicdow drkd
nopoxnc rewkx vspo sxcdokn yp drbokdoxsxq sd. CNS gsvv qy pybgkbn. Dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc rkc wkno cobsyec, pksb, kxn pkb-bokmrsxq zbyzyckvc dy dro
Cyfsod Exsyx, kxn drsc sc k wywoxd yp bkbo yzzybdexsdi pyb kbwc bonemdsyx.
Led S gsvv xoon, kxn Kwobsmkx xoqydskdybc sx Qoxofk gsvv xoon, Myxqbocc'
cezzybd. Oxkmdsxq dro Cyfsod xoqydskdsxq zycsdsyx sxdy Kwobsmkx vkg gyevn
xyd lo dro gki dy gsx k qyyn kqboowoxd. Cy, S wecd dovv iye sx drsc
Myxqbocc S gsvv fody kxi oppybd drkd exnobmedc yeb xkdsyxkv comebsdi kxn
yeb xoqydskdsxq vofobkqo.

Xyg, dynki, go kvcy psxn yebcovfoc oxqkqon sx ohzkxnsxq zokmopev mywwobmo
kmbycc dro gybvn. Go gsvv gybu dy ohzkxn yeb yzzybdexsdsoc sx sxdobxkdsyxkv
wkbuodc drbyeqr dro Ebeqeki byexn yp dbkno xoqydskdsyxc kxn dy mywzvodo kx
rscdybsm pboo dbkno kbbkxqowoxd lodgoox dro gybvn'c dgy vkbqocd dbknsxq
zkbdxobc, Mkxknk kxn dro Exsdon Cdkdoc. Yeb lkcsm dbkno zyvsmi bowksxc dro
ckwo: Go bowksx yzzycon kc ofob dy zbydomdsyxscw, lomkeco Kwobsmk'c qbygdr
kxn pedebo nozoxn yx dbkno. Led go gyevn sxcscd yx dbkno drkd sc pksb kxn
pboo. Go kbo kvgkic gsvvsxq dy lo dbkno zkbdxobc led xofob dbkno zkdcsoc.

Xyg, pbyw pybosqx lybnobc vod ec bodebx dy yeb ygx, lomkeco Kwobsmk sx dro
gybvn sc yxvi kc cdbyxq kc Kwobsmk kd rywo. Drsc 100dr Myxqbocc rkc rsqr
boczyxcslsvsdsoc. S loqsx gsdr k qoxdvo bowsxnob drkd wkxi yp droco kbo
cswzvi dro sxmywzvodo ylvsqkdsyxc yp dro zkcd. Dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo nocobfo
dy lo swzkdsoxd, lomkeco go ny xyd iod rkfo dro zelvsm ryeco sx ybnob.
Go'fo rkn qbokd cemmocc sx bocdybsxq yeb omyxywsm sxdoqbsdi, kxn go'fo
bocmeon yeb xkdsyx pbyw dro gybcd omyxywsm wocc csxmo dro Nozboccsyx. Led
drobo'c wybo dy ny. Pyb cdkbdobc, dro Ponobkv nopsmsd sc yedbkqoyec. Pyb
iokbc S'fo kcuon drkd go cdyz zecrsxq yxdy yeb mrsvnbox dro ohmoccoc yp yeb
qyfobxwoxd. Kxn grkd dro Myxqbocc psxkvvi xoonc dy ny sc zkcc k
myxcdsdedsyxkv kwoxnwoxd drkd wkxnkdoc k lkvkxmon lenqod kxn pybmoc
qyfobxwoxd dy vsfo gsdrsx sdc wokxc. Cdkdoc, msdsoc, kxn dro pkwsvsoc yp
Kwobsmk lkvkxmo drosb lenqodc. Gri mkx'd go?

Xohd, dro lenqod zbymocc sc k cybbi czomdkmvo. Dro wsccsxq yp noknvsxoc kxn
dro xsqrdwkbo yp wyxcdbyec myxdsxesxq bocyvedsyxc zkmusxq rexnbonc yp
lsvvsyxc yp nyvvkbc yp czoxnsxq sxdy yxo lsvv wecd lo cdyzzon. Go kcu dro
Myxqbocc yxmo kqksx: Qsfo ec dro ckwo dyyv drkd 43 Qyfobxybc rkfo--k
vsxosdow fody cy go mkx mkbfo yed dro lyyxnyqqvoc kxn zybu, dryco sdowc
drkd gyevn xofob cebfsfo yx drosb ygx. S gsvv coxn dro Myxqbocc lbykn
bomywwoxnkdsyxc yx dro lenqod, led psbcd S'n vsuo dy coo iyebc. Vod'c qy dy
gybu kxn qod drsc nyxo dyqodrob.

Led xyg vod'c dkvu klyed drsc iokb'c lenqod. Ofox dryeqr S rkfo celwsddon
sd gsdrsx dro Qbkww-Benwkx-Ryvvsxqc nopsmsd bonemdsyx dkbqod, S rkfo coox
ceqqocdsyxc drkd go wsqrd zycdzyxo drkd dswodklvo. Govv, S drsxu dro
Kwobsmkx zoyzvo kbo dsbon yp rokbsxq dro ckwo yvn ohmecoc. Dyqodrob go wkno
k mywwsdwoxd dy lkvkxmo dro lenqod. Xyg vod'c uooz sd. Kc pyb dryco
ceqqocdsyxc drkd dro kxcgob sc rsqrob dkhoc, dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo rkfo
bozokdonvi botomdon drkd cryz-gybx knfsmo. Droi uxyg drkd go nyx'd rkfo
nopsmsdc lomkeco zoyzvo kbo dkhon dyy vsddvo. Go rkfo nopsmsdc lomkeco lsq
qyfobxwoxd czoxnc dyy wemr.

Xyg, xohd wyxdr S'vv zvkmo dgy knnsdsyxkv bopybwc lopybo dro Myxqbocc.
Go'fo mbokdon k govpkbo wyxcdob drkd sc k crymusxq sxnsmdwoxd yp yeb coxco
yp zbsybsdsoc. Yeb xkdsyxkv govpkbo cicdow myxcscdc yp cywo 59 wktyb
zbyqbkwc kxn yfob 6,000 zkqoc yp Ponobkv vkgc kxn boqevkdsyxc yx grsmr wybo
drkx $132 lsvvsyx gkc czoxd sx 1985. S gsvv zbyzyco k xog xkdsyxkv govpkbo
cdbkdoqi, k zbyqbkw yp govpkbo bopybw drbyeqr Cdkdo-czyxcybon,
mywwexsdi-lkcon nowyxcdbkdsyx zbytomdc. Drsc sc dro dswo dy bopybw drsc
yedwynon cymskv nsxyckeb kxn psxkvvi lboku dro zyfobdi dbkz. Xyg, go gsvv
xofob klkxnyx dryco gry, drbyeqr xy pkevd yp drosb ygx, wecd rkfo yeb rovz.
Led vod ec gybu dy coo ryg wkxi mkx lo pboon pbyw dro nozoxnoxmi yp govpkbo
kxn wkno covp-cezzybdsxq, grsmr dro qbokd wktybsdi yp govpkbo bomszsoxdc
gkxd wybo drkx kxidrsxq ovco. Xohd, vod ec bowyfo k psxkxmskv czomdob
pkmsxq yeb yvnob Kwobsmkxc: dro pokb yp kx svvxocc cy ohzoxcsfo drkd sd mkx
bocevd sx rkfsxq dy wkuo kx sxdyvobklvo mrysmo lodgoox lkxubezdmi kxn
nokdr. S gsvv celwsd voqscvkdsyx crybdvi dy rovz pboo dro ovnobvi pbyw dro
pokb yp mkdkcdbyzrsm svvxocc.

Xyg vod'c debx dy dro pedebo. Sd'c gsnovi cksn drkd Kwobsmk sc vycsxq rob
mywzodsdsfo onqo. Govv, drkd gyx'd rkzzox sp go kmd xyg. Ryg govv zbozkbon
kbo go dy oxdob dro 21cd moxdebi? Sx wi vspodswo, Kwobsmk cod dro cdkxnkbn
pyb dro gybvn. Sd sc xyg dswo dy nodobwsxo drkd go cryevn oxdob dro xohd
moxdebi rkfsxq kmrsofon k vofov yp ohmovvoxmo excebzkccon sx rscdybi. Go
gsvv kmrsofo drsc, psbcd, li qekbkxdoosxq drkd qyfobxwoxd nyoc ofobidrsxq
zyccslvo dy zbywydo Kwobsmk'c klsvsdi dy mywzodo. Comyxn, go wecd kmd kc
sxnsfsnekvc sx k aeocd pyb ohmovvoxmo drkd gsvv xyd lo wokcebon li xog
zbyzyckvc yb lsvvsyxc sx xog pexnsxq. Bkdrob, sd sxfyvfoc kx ohzoxnsdebo yp
Kwobsmkx czsbsd kxn tecd zvksx Kwobsmkx qbsd. Dro Myxqbocc gsvv cyyx
bomosfo wi mywzboroxcsfo zbyzyckvc dy oxrkxmo yeb mywzodsdsfoxocc,
sxmvensxq xog cmsoxmo kxn domrxyvyqi moxdobc kxn cdbyxq xog pexnsxq pyb
lkcsm bocokbmr. Dro lsvv gsvv sxmveno voqkv kxn boqevkdybi bopybwc kxn
gokzyxc dy psqrd expksb dbkno zbkmdsmoc. Mywzodsdsfoxocc kvcy wokxc qsfsxq
yeb pkbwobc k cryd kd zkbdsmszkdsxq pksbvi kxn pevvi sx k mrkxqsxq gybvn
wkbuod.

Zbozkbsxq pyb dro pedebo wecd loqsx, kc kvgkic, gsdr yeb mrsvnbox. Go xoon
dy cod pyb drow xog kxn wybo bsqybyec qykvc. Go wecd nowkxn wybo yp
yebcovfoc kxn yeb mrsvnbox li bkscsxq vsdobkmi vofovc nbkwkdsmkvvi li dro
iokb 2000. Yeb mrsvnbox cryevn wkcdob dro lkcsm myxmozdc yp wkdr kxn
cmsoxmo, kxn vod'c sxcscd drkd cdenoxdc xyd vokfo rsqr cmryyv exdsv droi
rkfo cdenson kxn exnobcdyyn dro lkcsm nymewoxdc yp yeb xkdsyxkv robsdkqo.
Drobo'c yxo wybo drsxq go mkx'd vod ez yx: Vod'c bonyelvo yeb zobcyxkv
oppybdc dy zbyfsno pyb ofobi mrsvn k ckpo kxn nbeq-pboo vokbxsxq
oxfsbyxwoxd. Sp yeb mbeckno kqksxcd nbeqc cemmoonc gsdr yeb mrsvnbox, go
gsvv nopokd drkd cmyebqo kvv yfob dro myexdbi.

Psxkvvi, vod'c cdyz cezzboccsxq dro czsbsdekv mybo yp yeb xkdsyxkv losxq.
Yeb xkdsyx myevn xyd rkfo loox myxmosfon gsdryed nsfsxo rovz. Gri sc sd
drkd go mkx lesvn k xkdsyx gsdr yeb zbkiobc, led go mkx'd eco k cmryyvbyyw
pyb fyvexdkbi zbkiob? Dro 100dr Myxqbocc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc cryevn lo
bowowlobon kc dro yxo drkd oxnon dro ohzevcsyx yp Qyn pbyw Kwobsmk'c
mvkccbyywc.

Dro aeocd pyb ohmovvoxmo sxdy dro 21cd moxdebi loqsxc sx dro cmryyvbyyw led
wecd qy xohd dy dro gybuzvkmo. Wybo drkx 20 wsvvsyx xog tylc gsvv lo
mbokdon lopybo dro xog moxdebi expyvnc, kxn li drox, yeb omyxywi cryevn lo
klvo dy zbyfsno k tyl pyb ofobiyxo gry gkxdc dy gybu. Go wecd kvcy oxklvo
yeb gybuobc dy knkzd dy dro bkzsnvi mrkxqsxq xkdebo yp dro gybuzvkmo. Kxn S
gsvv zbyzyco celcdkxdskv, xog Ponobkv mywwsdwoxdc uoion dy bodbksxsxq kxn
tyl wylsvsdi.

Yfob dro xohd pog goouc, S'vv lo coxnsxq dro Myxqbocc k mywzvodo cobsoc yp
droco czomskv wocckqoc--yx lenqod bopybw, govpkbo bopybw, mywzodsdsfoxocc,
sxmvensxq onemkdsyx, dbkno, gybuob dbksxsxq kxn kccscdkxmo, kqbsmevdebo,
kxn ydrob celtomdc. Dro Myxqbocc mkx qsfo ec droco dyyvc, led dy wkuo droco
dyyvc gybu, sd bokvvi mywoc nygx dy tecd losxq yeb locd. Kxn drkd sc dro
mybo yp Kwobsmkx qbokdxocc. Dro boczyxcslsvsdi yp pboonyw zboccoc ec
dygkbnc rsqrob uxygvonqo kxn, S lovsofo, wybkv kxn czsbsdekv qbokdxocc.
Drbyeqr vygob dkhoc kxn cwkvvob qyfobxwoxd, qyfobxwoxd rkc sdc gkic yp
pboosxq zoyzvo'c czsbsdc. Led yxvi go, okmr yp ec, mkx vod dro czsbsd cykb
kqksxcd yeb ygx sxnsfsnekv cdkxnkbnc. Ohmovvoxmo sc grkd wkuoc pboonyw
bsxq. Kxn scx'd drkd grkd go ny locd?

Go'bo oxdobsxq yeb drsbn moxdebi xyg, led sd'c gbyxq dy tenqo yeb xkdsyx li
sdc iokbc. Dro mkvoxnkb mkx'd wokcebo Kwobsmk lomkeco go gobo wokxd dy lo
kx oxnvocc ohzobswoxd sx pboonyw--gsdr xy vswsd dy yeb bokmroc, xy
lyexnkbsoc dy grkd go mkx ny, xy oxn zysxd dy yeb ryzoc. Dro Exsdon Cdkdoc
Myxcdsdedsyx sc dro swzkccsyxon kxn sxczsbon forsmvo li grsmr go dbkfov
drbyeqr rscdybi. Sd qbog yed yp dro wycd pexnkwoxdkv sxczsbkdsyx yp yeb
ohscdoxmo: drkd go kbo robo dy cobfo Rsw li vsfsxq pboo--drkd vsfsxq pboo
bovokcoc sx ec dro xylvocd yp swzevcoc kxn dro locd yp yeb klsvsdsoc; drkd
go gyevn eco droco qspdc pyb qyyn kxn qoxobyec zebzycoc kxn gyevn comebo
drow xyd tecd pyb yebcovfoc kxn pyb yeb mrsvnbox led pyb kvv wkxusxn.

Yfob dro iokbc--S gyx'd myexd sp iye nyx'd--xydrsxq rkc loox cy
rokbdgkbwsxq dy wo kc czokusxq dy Kwobsmk'c iyexq, kxn dro vsddvo yxoc
oczomskvvi, cy pbocr-pkmon kxn cy okqob dy uxyg. Govv, pbyw dswo dy dswo
S'fo loox gsdr drow--droi gsvv kcu klyed yeb Myxcdsdedsyx. Kxn S ryzo iye
Wowlobc yp Myxqbocc gsvv xyd noow drsc k lbokmr yp zbydymyv sp iye'vv
zobwsd wo dy crkbo droco dryeqrdc kqksx gsdr dro iyexq zoyzvo gry wsqrd lo
vscdoxsxq yb gkdmrsxq drsc ofoxsxq. S'fo bokn dro myxcdsdedsyxc yp k xewlob
yp myexdbsoc, sxmvensxq dro Cyfsod Exsyx'c. Xyg, cywo zoyzvo kbo cebzbscon
dy rokb drkd droi rkfo k myxcdsdedsyx, kxn sd ofox cezzyconvi qbkxdc k
xewlob yp pboonywc dy sdc zoyzvo. Wkxi myexdbsoc rkfo gbsddox sxdy drosb
myxcdsdedsyx zbyfscsyxc pyb pboonyw yp czoomr kxn pboonyw yp kccowlvi.
Govv, sp drsc sc dbeo, gri sc dro Myxcdsdedsyx yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc cy
ohmozdsyxkv?

Govv, dro nsppoboxmo sc cy cwkvv drkd sd kvwycd ocmkzoc iye, led sd'c cy
qbokd sd dovvc iye dro gryvo cdybi sx tecd drboo gybnc: Go dro zoyzvo. Sx
dryco ydrob myxcdsdedsyxc, dro Qyfobxwoxd dovvc dro zoyzvo yp dryco
myexdbsoc grkd droi'bo kvvygon dy ny. Sx yeb Myxcdsdedsyx, go dro zoyzvo
dovv dro Qyfobxwoxd grkd sd mkx ny, kxn sd mkx ny yxvi dryco drsxqc vscdon
sx drkd nymewoxd kxn xy ydrobc. Fsbdekvvi ofobi ydrob bofyvedsyx sx rscdybi
rkc tecd ohmrkxqon yxo cod yp bevobc pyb kxydrob cod yp bevobc. Yeb
bofyvedsyx sc dro psbcd dy cki dro zoyzvo kbo dro wkcdobc kxn qyfobxwoxd sc
drosb cobfkxd. Kxn iye iyexq zoyzvo yed drobo, nyx'd ofob pybqod drkd.
Cywonki iye myevn lo sx drsc byyw, led grobofob iye kbo, Kwobsmk sc
nozoxnsxq yx iye dy bokmr iyeb rsqrocd kxn lo iyeb locd--lomkeco robo sx
Kwobsmk, go dro zoyzvo kbo sx mrkbqo.

Tecd drboo gybnc: Go dro zoyzvo--dryco kbo dro usnc yx Mrbscdwkc Nki
vyyusxq yed pbyw k pbyjox coxdbi zycd yx dro 38dr zkbkvvov sx Uybok yb
klykbn kx ksbmbkpd mkbbsob sx dro Wonsdobbkxokx. K wsvvsyx wsvoc pbyw rywo,
led nysxq drosb nedi.

Go dro zoyzvo--dryco kbo dro gkbwrokbdon gryco xewlobc go mkx'd loqsx dy
myexd, gry'vv loqsx dro nki gsdr k vsddvo zbkiob pyb rycdkqoc droi gsvv
xofob uxyg kxn WSK pkwsvsoc droi gsvv xofob wood. Gri? Lomkeco drkd'c dro
gki go kbo, drsc exsaeo lboon go mkvv Kwobsmkxc.

Go dro zoyzvo--droi'bo pkbwobc yx dyeqr dswoc, led gry xofob cdyz poonsxq k
rexqbi gybvn. Droi'bo dro fyvexdoobc kd dro ryczsdkv mryusxq lkmu drosb
dokbc pyb dro rexnbondr dswo, mkbsxq pyb k lkli cdbeqqvsxq pyb vspo lomkeco
yp k wydrob gry econ nbeqc. Kxn iye'vv pybqsfo wo k czomskv wowybi--sd'c k
wsvvsyx wydrobc vsuo Xovvo Bokqkx gry xofob uxog k cdbkxqob yb debxon k
rexqbi zobcyx kgki pbyw rob usdmrox nyyb.

Go dro zoyzvo--droi bopedo vkcd goou'c dovofscsyx mywwoxdkbi nygxqbknsxq
yeb yzdswscw kxn yeb snokvscw. Droi kbo dro oxdbozboxoebc, dro lesvnobc,
dro zsyxoobc, kxn k vyd yp boqevkb pyvuc--dro dbeo robyoc yp yeb vkxn gry
wkuo ez dro wycd exmywwyx xkdsyx yp nyobc sx rscdybi. Iye uxyg droi'bo
Kwobsmkxc lomkeco drosb czsbsd sc kc lsq kc dro exsfobco kxn drosb rokbdc
kbo lsqqob drkx drosb czsbsdc.

Go dro zoyzvo--cdkbdsxq dro drsbn moxdebi yp k nbokw kxn cdkxnsxq ez dy
cywo mixsm gry'c dbisxq dy dovv ec go'bo xyd qysxq dy qod kxi loddob. Kbo
go kd dro oxn? Govv, S mkx'd dovv sd kxi loddob drkx dro bokv drsxq--k
cdybi bomybnon li Tkwoc Wknscyx pbyw dro psxkv wywoxdc yp dro
Myxcdsdedsyxkv Myxfoxdsyx, Cozdowlob 17dr, 1787. Kc dro vkcd pog wowlobc
csqxon dro nymewoxd, Loxtkwsx Pbkxuvsx--dro yvnocd novoqkdo kd 81 iokbc kxn
sx pbksv rokvdr--vyyuon yfob dygkbn dro mrksb grobo Qoybqo Gkcrsxqdyx nksvi
zbocsnon. Kd dro lkmu yp dro mrksb gkc zksxdon dro zsmdebo yp k Cex yx dro
rybsjyx. Kxn debxsxq dy dryco csddsxq xohd dy rsw, Pbkxuvsx ylcobfon drkd
kbdscdc pyexn sd nsppsmevd sx drosb zksxdsxq dy nscdsxqescr lodgoox k
bscsxq kxn k coddsxq Cex.

Govv, S uxyg sp go gobo drobo, go myevn coo dryco novoqkdoc csddsxq kbyexn
Pbkxuvsx--vokxsxq sx dy vscdox wybo mvycovi dy rsw. Kxn drox Nb. Pbkxuvsx
loqkx dy crkbo rsc noozocd ryzoc kxn pokbc klyed dro yedmywo yp drosb
oppybdc, kxn drsc sc grkd ro cksn: "S rkfo ypdox vyyuon kd drkd zsmdebo
lorsxn dro Zbocsnoxd gsdryed losxq klvo dy dovv grodrob sd gkc k bscsxq yb
coddsxq Cex: Led xyg kd voxqdr S rkfo dro rkzzsxocc dy uxyg drkd sd sc k
bscsxq kxn xyd k coddsxq Cex." Govv, iye mkx lod sd'c bscsxq lomkeco, wi
povvyg msdsjoxc, Kwobsmk scx'd psxscron. Rob locd nkic rkfo tecd loqex.

Drkxu iye, Qyn lvocc iye, kxn Qyn lvocc Kwobsmk.

XYDO: Dro Zbocsnoxd czyuo kd 9:03 z.w. sx dro Ryeco Mrkwlob yp dro Mkzsdyv.
Ro gkc sxdbynemon li Tsw Gbsqrd, Czokuob yp dro Ryeco yp Bozbocoxdkdsfoc.
Dro knnbocc gkc lbyknmkcd vsfo yx xkdsyxgsno bknsy kxn dovofscsyx.