Yd. Ebqmwqd, Yd. Bdqeupqzf, puefuzsguetqp Yqynqde ar ftq Oazsdqee, tazadqp
sgqefe, mzp rqxxai oufulqze:

Ftmzw kag rad mxxaiuzs yq fa pqxmk yk mppdqee gzfux ftue qhqzuzs. Iq bmgeqp
fasqftqd fa yagdz mzp tazad ftq hmxad ar agd eqhqz Otmxxqzsqd tqdaqe. Mzp U
tabq ftmf iq mdq zai dqmpk fa pa itmf ftqk iagxp imzf ge fa pa: Sa radimdp,
Myqduom, mzp dqmot rad ftq efmde. Iq iuxx zqhqd radsqf ftaeq ndmhq eqhqz,
ngf iq etmxx sa radimdp.

Yd. Ebqmwqd, nqradq U nqsuz yk bdqbmdqp dqymdwe, ymk U bauzf agf ftmf
fazustf ymdwe ftq 10ft mzp xmef Efmfq ar ftq Gzuaz Yqeemsq ftmf kag'hq
bdqeupqp ahqd. Mzp az nqtmxr ar ftq Myqduomz bqabxq, U imzf fa emxgfq kag
rad kagd eqdhuoq fa Oazsdqee mzp oagzfdk. Tqdq'e fa kag!

U tmhq oayq fa dqhuqi iuft kag ftq bdasdqee ar agd zmfuaz, fa ebqmw ar
gzruzuetqp iadw, mzp fa eqf agd eustfe az ftq rgfgdq. U my bxqmeqp fa
dqbadf ftq efmfq ar agd Gzuaz ue efdazsqd ftmz m kqmd msa mzp sdaiuzs
efdazsqd qmot pmk. Fazustf iq xaaw agf az m dueuzs Myqduom, rudy ar tqmdf,
gzufqp uz ebuduf, baiqdrgx uz bdupq mzp bmfduafuey. Myqduom ue az ftq yahq!
Ngf uf imez'f xazs msa ftmf iq xaawqp agf az m purrqdqzf xmzp: xaowqp
rmofadk smfqe, xazs smeaxuzq xuzqe, uzfaxqdmnxq bduoqe, mzp uzfqdqef dmfqe
fgdzuzs ftq sdqmfqef oagzfdk az Qmdft uzfa m xmzp ar ndawqz pdqmye.
Sahqdzyqzf sdaiuzs nqkazp agd oazeqzf tmp nqoayq m xgynqduzs sumzf,
exmyyuzs etgf ftq smfqe ar abbadfgzufk, ftdqmfqzuzs fa odget ftq hqdk daafe
ar agd rdqqpay. Itmf ndagstf Myqduom nmow? Ftq Myqduomz bqabxq ndagstf ge
nmow iuft cguqf oagdmsq mzp oayyaz eqzeq, iuft gzpkuzs rmuft ftmf uz ftue
zmfuaz gzpqd Sap ftq rgfgdq iuxx nq agde; rad ftq rgfgdq nqxazse fa ftq
rdqq.

Fazustf ftq Myqduomz bqabxq pqeqdhq agd ftmzwe rad 37 efdmustf yazfte ar
qoazayuo sdaift, rad egzdueq rudye mzp yapqdzulqp uzpgefduqe odqmfuzs 9
yuxxuaz zqi vane uz 3 kqmde, uzfqdqef dmfqe ogf uz tmxr, uzrxmfuaz rmxxuzs
ahqd rday 12 bqdoqzf uz 1980 fa gzpqd 4 fapmk, mzp m yustfk duhqd ar saap
iadwe--m dqoadp $74 nuxxuaz uz haxgzfmdk suhuzs vgef xmef kqmd mxazq. Mzp
pqebufq ftq bdqeegdqe ar agd yapqdz iadxp, rmyuxk mzp oayygzufk dqymuz ftq
yadmx oadq ar agd eaouqfk, sgmdpumze ar agd hmxgqe mzp tabqe rad ftq
rgfgdq. Rmyuxk mzp oayygzufk mdq ftq oaefmde ar ftue sdqmf Myqduomz
oayqnmow. Ftqk mdq itk iq emk fazustf: Bduhmfq hmxgqe ygef nq mf ftq tqmdf
ar bgnxuo baxuouqe.

Itmf ue fdgq rad rmyuxuqe uz Myqduom ue fdgq rad Myqduom uz ftq rmyuxk ar
rdqq zmfuaze. Tuefadk ue za ombfuhq ar eayq uzqhufmnxq radoq. Tuefadk ue
ympq nk yqz mzp iayqz ar hueuaz mzp oagdmsq. Fazustf rdqqpay ue az ftq
ymdot. Ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe ue ftq qoazayuo yudmoxq, ftq yapqx fa ituot ftq
iadxp azoq msmuz fgdze. Iq efmzp rad mz upqm itaeq fuyq ue zai: Azxk nk
xurfuzs ftq iqustfe rday ftq etagxpqde ar mxx omz bqabxq fdgxk bdaebqd mzp
omz bqmoq myazs mxx zmfuaze nq eqogdq. Fqppk Daaeqhqxf emup ftmf m zmfuaz
ftmf paqe sdqmf iadw xuhqe radqhqd. Iq tmhq pazq iqxx, ngf iq omzzaf efab
mf ftq raaftuxxe itqz Qhqdqef nqowaze. Uf'e fuyq rad Myqduom fa nq mxx ftmf
iq omz nq.

Iq ebqmw fazustf ar mz msqzpm rad ftq rgfgdq, mz msqzpm rad m emrqd, yadq
eqogdq iadxp. Mzp iq ebqmw mnagf ftq zqoqeeufk rad mofuaze fa efqqx ge rad
ftq otmxxqzsqe ar sdaift, fdmpq, mzp eqogdufk uz ftq zqjf pqompq mzp ftq
kqmd 2000. Mzp iq iuxx pa uf--zaf nk ndqmwuzs rmuft iuft nqpdaow bduzoubxqe
ngf nk ndqmwuzs rdqq rday rmuxqp baxuouqe. Xqf ge nqsuz itqdq efady oxagpe
xaay pmdwqef--dustf tqdq uz Imetuzsfaz, PO. Ftue iqqw U iuxx eqzp kag agd
pqfmuxqp bdabaemxe; fazustf xqf ge ebqmw ar agd dqebazeunuxufk fa dqpqruzq
sahqdzyqzf'e daxq: zaf fa oazfdax, zaf fa pqymzp ad oayymzp, zaf fa oazfmuz
ge, ngf fa tqxb uz fuyqe ar zqqp mzp, mnahq mxx, fa odqmfq m xmppqd ar
abbadfgzufk fa rgxx qybxakyqzf ea ftmf mxx Myqduomze omz oxuyn faimdp
qoazayuo baiqd mzp vgefuoq az ftqud aiz.

Ngf iq omzzaf iuz ftq dmoq fa ftq rgfgdq etmowxqp fa m ekefqy ftmf omz'f
qhqz bmee m Rqpqdmx ngpsqf. Iq omzzaf iuz ftmf dmoq tqxp nmow nk
tadeq-mzp-ngssk bdasdmye ftmf imefq fmj paxxmde mzp ecgmzpqd tgymz
bafqzfumx. Iq omzzaf iuz ftmf dmoq ur iq'dq eimybqp uz m eqm ar dqp uzw.
Zai, Yd. Ebqmwqd, kag wzai, U wzai, mzp ftq Myqduomz bqabxq wzai ftq
Rqpqdmx ngpsqf ekefqy ue ndawqz. Uf paqez'f iadw. Nqradq iq xqmhq ftue
oufk, xqf'e kag mzp U iadw fasqftqd fa ruj uf, mzp ftqz iq omz ruzmxxk suhq
ftq Myqduomz bqabxq m nmxmzoqp ngpsqf.

Yqynqde ar Oazsdqee, bmeemsq ar Sdmyy-Dgpymz-Taxxuzse suhqe ge mz tuefaduo
abbadfgzufk fa motuqhq itmf tme qxgpqp agd zmfuazmx xqmpqdetub rad pqompqe:
radouzs ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf fa xuhq iuftuz ufe yqmze. Kagd eotqpgxq zai
dqcgudqe ftmf ftq ngpsqf dqeaxgfuaz nq bmeeqp nk Mbdux 15ft, ftq hqdk pmk
Myqduom'e rmyuxuqe tmhq fa raaf ftq nuxx rad ftq ngpsqfe ftmf kag bdapgoq.
Tai arfqz iq dqmp ar m tgenmzp mzp iurq naft iadwuzs, efdgssxuzs rday
bmkotqow fa bmkotqow fa dmueq m rmyuxk, yqqf m yadfsmsq, bmk ftqud fmjqe
mzp nuxxe. Mzp kqf eayq uz Oazsdqee emk fmjqe ygef nq dmueqp. Iqxx, U'y
eaddk; ftqk'dq mewuzs ftq idazs bqabxq fa fustfqz ftqud nqxfe. Uf'e fuyq iq
dqpgoq ftq Rqpqdmx ngpsqf mzp xqrf ftq rmyuxk ngpsqf mxazq. Iq pa zaf rmoq
xmdsq pqruoufe nqomgeq Myqduomz rmyuxuqe mdq gzpqdfmjqp; iq rmoq ftaeq
pqruoufe nqomgeq ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf ahqdebqzpe.

Ftq pqfmuxqp ngpsqf ftmf iq iuxx egnyuf iuxx yqqf ftq Sdmyy-Dgpymz-Taxxuzse
fmdsqf rad pqruouf dqpgofuaze, yqqf agd oayyufyqzf fa qzegdq m efdazs
zmfuazmx pqrqzeq, yqqf agd oayyufyqzf fa bdafqof Eaoumx Eqogdufk mzp ftq
fdgxk xqee radfgzmfq, mzp, kqe, yqqf agd oayyufyqzf fa zaf dmueq fmjqe. Tai
etagxp iq mooaybxuet ftue? Iqxx, zaf nk fmwuzs rday ftaeq uz zqqp. Me
rmyuxuqe fmwq omdq ar ftqud aiz, sahqdzyqzf ygef bdahupq etqxfqd mzp
zagduetyqzf rad ftaeq ita omzzaf bdahupq rad ftqyeqxhqe. Ngf iq ygef dqhueq
ad dqbxmoq bdasdmye qzmofqp uz ftq zmyq ar oaybmeeuaz ftmf pqsdmpq ftq
yadmx iadft ar iadw, qzoagdmsq rmyuxk ndqmwgbe, mzp pduhq qzfudq
oayygzufuqe uzfa m nxqmw mzp tqmdfxqee pqbqzpqzok. Sdmyy-Dgpymz-Taxxuzse
omz ymdw m pdmymfuo uybdahqyqzf. Ngf qjbqduqzoq etaie ftmf euybxk eqffuzs
pqruouf fmdsqfe paqe zaf meegdq ftqk'xx nq yqf. Iq ygef bdaoqqp iuft Sdmoq
oayyueeuaz dqradye msmuzef imefq.

Mzp fazustf U mew kag fa suhq yq itmf 43 Sahqdzade tmhq: Suhq yq m
xuzq-ufqy hqfa ftue kqmd. Suhq yq ftq mgftadufk fa hqfa imefq, mzp U'xx
fmwq ftq dqebazeunuxufk, U'xx ymwq ftq ogfe, U'xx fmwq ftq tqmf. Ftue
mgftadufk iagxp zaf suhq yq mzk yazabaxk baiqd, ngf euybxk bdqhqzf ebqzpuzs
yqmegdqe rday ezqmwuzs ftdagst ftmf oagxp zaf bmee az ftqud aiz yqduf. Mzp
kag omz egefmuz ad ahqddupq yk hqfa; ftmf'e ftq imk ftq ekefqy etagxp iadw.
Azoq iq'hq ympq ftq tmdp otauoqe, iq etagxp xaow uz agd smuze iuft m
nmxmzoqp ngpsqf myqzpyqzf fa ftq Oazefufgfuaz.

U yqzfuazqp ftmf iq iuxx yqqf agd oayyufyqzf fa zmfuazmx pqrqzeq. Iq ygef
yqqf uf. Pqrqzeq ue zaf vgef mzaftqd ngpsqf qjbqzeq. Wqqbuzs Myqduom
efdazs, rdqq, mzp mf bqmoq ue eaxqxk ftq dqebazeunuxufk ar ftq Rqpqdmx
Sahqdzyqzf; uf ue sahqdzyqzf'e bduyq dqebazeunuxufk. Iq tmhq pqhafqp 5
kqmde fdkuzs fa zmddai m pmzsqdage smb nadz ar uxxgeuaz mzp zqsxqof, mzp
iq'hq ympq uybadfmzf smuze. Kqf ftq ftdqmf rday Eahuqf radoqe, oazhqzfuazmx
mzp efdmfqsuo, rday ftq Eahuqf pduhq rad payuzmfuaz, rday ftq uzodqmeq uz
qebuazmsq mzp efmfq fqddad dqymuze sdqmf. Ftue ue dqmxufk. Oxaeuzs agd qkqe
iuxx zaf ymwq dqmxufk puembbqmd. Iq bxqpsqp fasqftqd fa taxp dqmx sdaift uz
pqrqzeq ebqzpuzs fa ftq nmdq yuzuygy. Yk ngpsqf tazade ftmf bxqpsq, mzp U'y
zai mewuzs kag, ftq Oazsdqee, fa wqqb ufe qzp ar ftq nmdsmuz. Ftq Eahuqfe
ygef wzai ftmf ur Myqduom dqpgoqe tqd pqrqzeqe, uf iuxx nq nqomgeq ar m
dqpgoqp ftdqmf, zaf m dqpgoqp dqeaxhq.

Wqqbuzs Myqduom efdazs ue me hufmx fa ftq zmfuazmx eqogdufk me oazfdaxxuzs
Rqpqdmx ebqzpuzs ue fa agd qoazayuo eqogdufk. Ngf, me U tmhq emup nqradq,
ftq yaef baiqdrgx radoq iq omz qzxuef msmuzef ftq Rqpqdmx pqruouf ue mz
qhqd-qjbmzpuzs Myqduomz qoazayk, gzrqffqdqp mzp rdqq. Ftq ymsuo ar
abbadfgzufk--gzdqeqdhqp, gzrmuxuzs, gzdqefdmuzqp--uez'f ftue ftq omxxuzs
ftmf gzufqe ge? U nqxuqhq agd fmj dmfq ogfe rad ftq bqabxq tmhq pazq yadq
fa ebgd m ebuduf ar duew-fmwuzs mzp tqxb Myqduom'e qoazayk ndqmw rdqq ftmz
mzk bdasdmy euzoq Vatz Wqzzqpk'e fmj ogf mxyaef m cgmdfqd oqzfgdk msa.

Zai tuefadk omxxe ge fa bdqee az, fa oaybxqfq qrradfe rad mz tuefaduo fmj
dqrady bdahupuzs zqi abbadfgzufk rad mxx mzp qzegduzs ftmf mxx bmk ftqud
rmud etmdq, ngf za yadq. Iq'hq oayq ftue rmd. Iuxx kag vauz yq zai, mzp
iq'xx imxw ftue xmef yuxq fasqftqd? Kag wzai yk huqie az ftue. Iq omzzaf
mzp iq iuxx zaf mooqbf fmj dqrady ftmf ue m fmj uzodqmeq uz puesgueq. Fdgq
dqrady ygef nq mz qzsuzq ar bdapgofuhufk mzp sdaift, mzp ftmf yqmze m fab
bqdeazmx dmfq za tustqd ftmz 35 bqdoqzf. Fdgq dqrady ygef nq fdgxk rmud,
mzp ftmf yqmze dmueuzs bqdeazmx qjqybfuaze fa $2,000. Fdgq dqrady yqmze m
fmj ekefqy ftmf mf xazs xmef ue bdarmyuxk, bdavane, bdargfgdq, mzp
bda-Myqduom.

Me iq wzaow paiz ftq nmdduqde fa sdaift, iq ygef dqpagnxq agd qrradfe rad
rdqqd mzp rmudqd fdmpq. Iq tmhq mxdqmpk fmwqz mofuaze fa oagzfqd gzrmud
fdmpuzs bdmofuoqe mzp fa bdk abqz oxaeqp radqusz ymdwqfe. Iq iuxx oazfuzgq
fa pa ea. Iq iuxx mxea abbaeq xqsuexmfuaz fagfqp me bdahupuzs bdafqofuaz
ftmf uz dqmxufk bufe azq Myqduomz iadwqd msmuzef mzaftqd, azq uzpgefdk
msmuzef mzaftqd, azq oayygzufk msmuzef mzaftqd, mzp ftmf dmueqe bduoqe rad
ge mxx. Ur ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe omz fdmpq iuft aftqd zmfuaze az m xqhqx
bxmkuzs ruqxp, iq omz agfbdapgoq, agfoaybqfq, mzp agfeqxx mzknapk, mzkitqdq
uz ftq iadxp.

Ftq oazefmzf qjbmzeuaz ar agd qoazayk mzp qjbadfe dqcgudqe m eagzp mzp
efmnxq paxxmd mf tayq mzp dqxumnxq qjotmzsq dmfqe mdagzp ftq iadxp. Iq ygef
zqhqd msmuz bqdyuf iuxp ogddqzok eiuzse fa odubbxq agd rmdyqde mzp aftqd
qjbadfqde. Rmdyqde, uz bmdfuogxmd, tmhq egrrqdqp rday bmef gziueq
sahqdzyqzf baxuouqe. Ftqk ygef zaf nq mnmzpazqp iuft bdanxqye ftqk pup zaf
odqmfq mzp omzzaf oazfdax. Iq'hq nqsgz oaadpuzmfuzs qoazayuo mzp yazqfmdk
baxuok myazs agd ymvad fdmpuzs bmdfzqde. Ngf ftqdq'e yadq fa pa, mzp
fazustf U my pudqofuzs Fdqmegdk Eqodqfmdk Vuy Nmwqd fa pqfqdyuzq ur ftq
zmfuaze ar ftq iadxp etagxp oazhqzq fa pueogee ftq daxq mzp dqxmfuazetub ar
agd ogddqzouqe.

Oazrupqzf uz agd rgfgdq mzp eqogdq uz agd hmxgqe, Myqduomze mdq efduhuzs
radimdp fa qyndmoq ftq rgfgdq. Iq eqq uf zaf azxk uz agd dqoahqdk ngf uz 3
efdmustf kqmde ar rmxxuzs oduyq dmfqe, me rmyuxuqe mzp oayygzufuqe nmzp
fasqftqd fa rustf badzasdmbtk, pdgse, mzp xmixqeezqee mzp fa suhq nmow fa
ftqud otuxpdqz ftq emrq mzp, kqe, uzzaoqzf otuxptaap ftqk pqeqdhq. Iq eqq
uf uz ftq dqzmueemzoq uz qpgomfuaz, ftq dueuzs EMF eoadqe rad 3 kqmde--xmef
kqmd'e uzodqmeq, ftq sdqmfqef euzoq 1963. Uf imez'f sahqdzyqzf mzp
Imetuzsfaz xannuqe ftmf fgdzqp qpgomfuaz mdagzp; uf ime ftq Myqduomz bqabxq
ita, uz dqmotuzs rad qjoqxxqzoq, wzqi fa dqmot nmow fa nmeuoe. Iq ygef
oazfuzgq ftq mphmzoq nk egbbadfuzs pueoubxuzq uz agd eotaaxe, hagotqde ftmf
suhq bmdqzfe rdqqpay ar otauoq; mzp iq ygef suhq nmow fa agd otuxpdqz ftqud
xaef dustf fa mowzaixqpsq Sap uz ftqud oxmeedaaye.

Iq mdq m zmfuaz ar upqmxuefe, kqf fapmk ftqdq ue m iagzp uz agd zmfuazmx
oazeouqzoq. Myqduom iuxx zqhqd nq itaxq me xazs me ftq dustf fa xurq
sdmzfqp nk agd Odqmfad ue pqzuqp fa ftq gznadz. Rad ftq dqef ar yk fuyq, U
etmxx pa itmf U omz fa eqq ftmf ftue iagzp ue azq pmk tqmxqp.

Me iq iadw fa ymwq ftq Myqduomz pdqmy dqmx rad mxx, iq ygef mxea xaaw fa
ftq oazpufuaz ar Myqduom'e rmyuxuqe. Efdgssxuzs bmdqzfe fapmk iaddk tai
ftqk iuxx bdahupq ftqud otuxpdqz ftq mphmzfmsqe ftmf ftqud bmdqzfe smhq
ftqy. Uz ftq iqxrmdq ogxfgdq, ftq ndqmwpaiz ar ftq rmyuxk, ftq yaef nmeuo
egbbadf ekefqy, tme dqmotqp odueue bdabadfuaze--uz rqymxq mzp otuxp
bahqdfk, otuxp mnmzpazyqzf, taddunxq oduyqe, mzp pqfqduadmfuzs eotaaxe.
Mrfqd tgzpdqpe ar nuxxuaze ar paxxmde uz bahqdfk bdasdmye, ftq bxustf ar
ftq baad sdaie yadq bmuzrgx. Ngf ftq imefq uz paxxmde mzp oqzfe bmxqe
nqradq ftq yaef fdmsuo xaee: ftq euzrgx imefq ar tgymz ebuduf mzp
bafqzfumx. Iq omz uszadq ftue fqddunxq fdgft za xazsqd. Me Rdmzwxuz
Daaeqhqxf imdzqp 51 kqmde msa, efmzpuzs nqradq ftue Otmynqd, tq emup,
"Iqxrmdq ue m zmdoafuo, m egnfxq pqefdakqd ar ftq tgymz ebuduf." Mzp iq
ygef zai qeombq ftq ebupqd'e iqn ar pqbqzpqzok.

Fazustf U my otmdsuzs ftq Itufq Tageq Payqefuo Oagzoux fa bdqeqzf yq nk
Pqoqynqd 1, 1986, mz qhmxgmfuaz ar bdasdmye mzp m efdmfqsk rad uyyqpumfq
mofuaz fa yqqf ftq ruzmzoumx, qpgomfuazmx, eaoumx, mzp emrqfk oazoqdze ar
baad rmyuxuqe. U'y fmxwuzs mnagf dqmx mzp xmefuzs qymzoubmfuaz, nqomgeq ftq
egooqee ar iqxrmdq etagxp nq vgpsqp nk tai ymzk ar ufe dqoubuqzfe nqoayq
uzpqbqzpqzf ar iqxrmdq. Rgdftqd, mrfqd eqquzs tai pqhmefmfuzs uxxzqee omz
pqefdak ftq ruzmzoumx eqogdufk ar ftq rmyuxk, U my pudqofuzs ftq Eqodqfmdk
ar Tqmxft mzp Tgymz Eqdhuoqe, Pd. Afue Naiqz, fa dqbadf fa yq nk kqmd qzp
iuft dqoayyqzpmfuaze az tai ftq bduhmfq eqofad mzp sahqdzyqzf omz iadw
fasqftqd fa mppdqee ftq bdanxqye ar mrradpmnxq uzegdmzoq rad ftaeq itaeq
xurq emhuzse iagxp aftqdiueq nq ftdqmfqzqp itqz omfmefdabtuo uxxzqee
efduwqe.

Mzp fazustf U imzf fa ebqmw pudqofxk fa Myqduom'e kagzsqd sqzqdmfuaz,
nqomgeq kag taxp ftq pqefuzk ar agd zmfuaz uz kagd tmzpe. Iuft mxx ftq
fqybfmfuaze kagzs bqabxq rmoq, uf eayqfuyqe eqqye ftq mxxgdq ar ftq
bqdyueeuhq eaouqfk dqcgudqe egbqdtgymz rqmfe ar eqxr-oazfdax. Ngf ftq omxx
ar ftq rgfgdq ue faa efdazs, ftq otmxxqzsq faa sdqmf fa sqf xaef uz ftq
nxuzp mxxqkimke ar pueeaxgfuaz, pdgse, mzp pqebmud. Zqhqd tme ftqdq nqqz m
yadq qjoufuzs fuyq fa nq mxuhq, m fuyq ar dageuzs iazpqd mzp tqdauo
motuqhqyqzf. Me ftqk emup uz ftq ruxy "Nmow fa ftq Rgfgdq," "Itqdq iq'dq
sauzs, iq paz'f zqqp dampe."

Iqxx, fapmk btkeuouefe bqqduzs uzfa ftq uzruzufqxk eymxx dqmxye ar
egnmfayuo bmdfuoxqe ruzp dqmrrudymfuaze ar dqxusuage rmuft. Mefdazayqde
nguxp m ebmoq fqxqeoabq ftmf omz eqq fa ftq qpsq ar ftq gzuhqdeq mzp
baeeunxk nmow fa ftq yayqzf ar odqmfuaz. Ea, kqe, ftue zmfuaz dqymuze rgxxk
oayyuffqp fa Myqduom'e ebmoq bdasdmy. Iq'dq sauzs radimdp iuft agd etgffxq
rxustfe. Iq'dq sauzs radimdp fa nguxp agd ebmoq efmfuaz. Mzp iq mdq sauzs
radimdp iuft dqeqmdot az m zqi Aduqzf Qjbdqee ftmf oagxp, nk ftq qzp ar ftq
zqjf pqompq, fmwq arr rday Pgxxqe Mudbadf, mooqxqdmfq gb fa 25 fuyqe ftq
ebqqp ar eagzp, mffmuzuzs xai Qmdft adnuf ad rxkuzs fa Fawka iuftuz 2
tagde. Mzp ftq emyq fqotzaxask fdmzeradyuzs agd xuhqe omz eaxhq ftq
sdqmfqef bdanxqy ar ftq 20ft oqzfgdk. M eqogdufk etuqxp omz azq pmk dqzpqd
zgoxqmd iqmbaze aneaxqfq mzp rdqq ymzwuzp rday ftq bdueaz ar zgoxqmd
fqddad. Myqduom yqf azq tuefaduo otmxxqzsq mzp iqzf fa ftq Yaaz. Zai
Myqduom ygef yqqf mzaftqd: fa ymwq agd efdmfqsuo pqrqzeq dqmx rad mxx ftq
oufulqze ar bxmzqf Qmdft.

Xqf ge ebqmw ar agd pqqbqef xazsuzs rad ftq rgfgdq: fa xqmhq agd otuxpdqz m
xmzp ftmf ue rdqq mzp vgef mzp m iadxp mf bqmoq. Uf ue yk tabq ftmf agd
rudqeupq egyyuf uz Sqzqhm mzp Yd. Sadnmotqh'e gboayuzs hueuf fa Myqduom omz
xqmp fa m yadq efmnxq dqxmfuazetub. Egdqxk za bqabxq az Qmdft tmfq imd ad
xahq bqmoq yadq ftmz iq Myqduomze. Ngf iq omzzaf efdaxx uzfa ftq rgfgdq
iuft otuxpxuwq rmuft. Agd purrqdqzoqe iuft m ekefqy ftmf abqzxk bdaoxmuye
mzp bdmofuoqe mz mxxqsqp dustf fa oayymzp bqabxq'e xuhqe mzp fa qjbadf ufe
upqaxask nk radoq mdq pqqb mzp mnupuzs. Xasuo mzp tuefadk oaybqx ge fa
mooqbf ftmf agd dqxmfuazetub nq sgupqp nk dqmxuey--daow-tmdp, oxqmdqkqp,
efqmpk, mzp egdq. Agd zqsafumfade uz Sqzqhm tmhq bdabaeqp m dmpuomx ogf uz
arrqzeuhq radoqe nk qmot eupq iuft za otqmfuzs. Ftqk tmhq ympq oxqmd ftmf
Eahuqf oaybxumzoq iuft ftq xqffqd mzp ebuduf ar msdqqyqzfe ue qeeqzfumx. Ur
ftq Eahuqf Sahqdzyqzf imzfe mz msdqqyqzf ftmf fdgxk dqpgoqe zgoxqmd mdye,
ftqdq iuxx nq egot mz msdqqyqzf.

Ngf mdye oazfdax ue za egnefufgfq rad bqmoq. Iq wzai ftmf bqmoq raxxaie uz
rdqqpay'e bmft mzp oazrxuofe qdgbf itqz ftq iuxx ar ftq bqabxq ue pqzuqp.
Ea, iq ygef bdqbmdq rad bqmoq zaf azxk nk dqpgouzs iqmbaze ngf nk
naxefqduzs bdaebqdufk, xunqdfk, mzp pqyaodmok taiqhqd mzp itqdqhqd iq omz.
Iq mphmzoq ftq bdayueq ar abbadfgzufk qhqdk fuyq iq ebqmw agf az nqtmxr ar
xaiqd fmj dmfqe, rdqqd ymdwqfe, eagzp ogddqzouqe mdagzp ftq iadxp. Iq
efdqzsftqz ftq rmyuxk ar rdqqpay qhqdk fuyq iq iadw iuft mxxuqe mzp oayq fa
ftq mup ar rduqzpe gzpqd euqsq. Mzp iq omz qzxmdsq ftq rmyuxk ar rdqq
zmfuaze ur iq iuxx pqrqzp ftq gzmxuqzmnxq dustfe ar mxx Sap'e otuxpdqz fa
raxxai ftqud pdqmye.

Fa ftaeq uybdueazqp uz dqsuyqe tqxp ombfuhq, fa ftaeq nqmfqz rad pmduzs fa
rustf rad rdqqpay mzp pqyaodmok--rad ftqud dustf fa iadetub, fa ebqmw, fa
xuhq, mzp fa bdaebqd uz ftq rmyuxk ar rdqq zmfuaze--iq emk fa kag fazustf:
Kag mdq zaf mxazq, rdqqpay rustfqde. Myqduom iuxx egbbadf iuft yadmx mzp
ymfqdumx meeuefmzoq kagd dustf zaf vgef fa rustf mzp puq rad rdqqpay ngf fa
rustf mzp iuz rdqqpay--fa iuz rdqqpay uz Mrstmzuefmz, uz Mzsaxm, uz
Omynapum, mzp uz Zuomdmsgm. Ftue ue m sdqmf yadmx otmxxqzsq rad ftq qzfudq
rdqq iadxp.

Egdqxk za ueegq ue yadq uybadfmzf rad bqmoq uz agd aiz tqyuebtqdq, rad ftq
eqogdufk ar agd rdazfuqde, rad ftq bdafqofuaz ar agd hufmx uzfqdqefe, ftmz
fa motuqhq pqyaodmok uz Zuomdmsgm mzp fa bdafqof Zuomdmsgm'e pqyaodmfuo
zqustnade. Ftue kqmd U iuxx nq mewuzs Oazsdqee rad ftq yqmze fa pa itmf
ygef nq pazq rad ftmf sdqmf mzp saap omgeq. Me (radyqd Eqzmfad Tqzdk
Y.)Eoaab Vmoweaz, ftq uzebudmfuaz rad agd Nubmdfuemz Oayyueeuaz az Oqzfdmx
Myqduom, azoq emup, "Uz ymffqde ar zmfuazmx eqogdufk, ftq nqef baxufuoe ue
za baxufuoe."

Itmf iq mooaybxuet ftue kqmd, uz qmot otmxxqzsq iq rmoq, iuxx eqf agd
oagdeq rad ftq nmxmzoq ar ftq pqompq, uzpqqp, rad ftq dqymuzpqd ar ftq
oqzfgdk. Mrfqd mxx iq'hq pazq ea rmd, xqf za azq emk ftmf ftue zmfuaz
omzzaf dqmot ftq pqefuzk ar agd pdqmye. Myqduom nqxuqhqe, Myqduom ue dqmpk,
Myqduom omz iuz ftq dmoq fa ftq rgfgdq--mzp iq etmxx. Ftq Myqduomz pdqmy ue
m eazs ar tabq ftmf duzse ftdagst zustf iuzfqd mud; huhup, fqzpqd ygeuo
ftmf imdye agd tqmdfe itqz ftq xqmef myazs ge mebudq fa ftq sdqmfqef
ftuzse: fa hqzfgdq m pmduzs qzfqdbdueq; fa gzqmdft zqi nqmgfk uz ygeuo,
xufqdmfgdq, mzp mdf; fa pueoahqd m zqi gzuhqdeq uzeupq m fuzk euxuoaz otub
ad m euzsxq tgymz oqxx.

Iq eqq ftq pdqmy oayuzs fdgq uz ftq ebuduf ar pueoahqdk ar Duotmdp Omhaxu.
Mxx tue xurq tq'e nqqz qzftdmxxqp nk ftq ykefqduqe ar yqpuouzq. Mzp,
Duotmdp, iq wzai ftmf ftq qjbqduyqzf ftmf kag nqsmz uz tust eotaax ime
xmgzotqp mzp xaef xmef iqqw, kqf kagd pdqmy xuhqe. Mzp me xazs me uf'e
dqmx, iadw ar zanxq zafq iuxx kqf nq pazq, iadw ftmf oagxp dqpgoq ftq
tmdyrgx qrrqofe ar j dmke az bmfuqzfe mzp qzmnxq mefdazayqde fa huqi ftq
saxpqz smfqimke ar ftq rmdftqef efmde.

Iq eqq ftq pdqmy sxai uz ftq faiqduzs fmxqzf ar m 12-kqmd-axp, Fkdazq Radp.
M otuxp bdapusk ar saebqx ygeuo, tq tme egdyagzfqp bqdeazmx mphqdeufk fa
nqoayq mz mooaybxuetqp bumzuef mzp euzsqd. Tq mxea pudqofe ftq otaude ar
ftdqq otgdotqe mzp tme bqdradyqp mf ftq Wqzzqpk Oqzfqd. Iuft Sap me kagd
oaybaeqd, Fkdazq, kagd ygeuo iuxx nq ftq ygeuo ar mzsqxe.

Iq eqq ftq pdqmy nquzs emhqp nk ftq oagdmsq ar ftq 13-kqmd-axp Etqxnk
Ngfxqd, tazad efgpqzf mzp yqynqd ar tqd eotaax'e emrqfk bmfdax. Eqquzs
mzaftqd sudx rdqqlq uz fqddad nqradq mz agf-ar-oazfdax eotaax nge, etq
duewqp tqd xurq mzp bgxxqp tqd fa emrqfk. Iuft ndmhqdk xuwq kagde, Etqxnk,
Myqduom zqqp zqhqd rqmd rad agd rgfgdq.

Mzp iq eqq ftq pdqmy nadz msmuz uz ftq vakrgx oaybmeeuaz ar m 13 kqmd axp,
Fdqhad Rqddqxx. Fia kqmde msa, msq 11, imfotuzs yqz mzp iayqz nqppuzs paiz
uz mnmzpazqp paadimke--az fqxqhueuaz tq ime imfotuzs--Fdqhad xqrf tue
egngdnmz Btuxmpqxbtum tayq fa nduzs nxmzwqfe mzp raap fa ftq tqxbxqee mzp
tayqxqee. Mzp zai 250 bqabxq tqxb tuy rgxruxx tue zustfxk husux. Fdqhad,
kagde ue ftq xuhuzs ebuduf ar ndaftqdxk xahq.

Iagxp kag ragd efmzp gb rad m yayqzf? Ftmzw kag, ftmzw kag. Kag mdq tqdaqe
ar agd tqmdfe. Iq xaaw mf kag mzp wzai uf'e fdgq: Uz ftue xmzp ar pdqmye
rgxruxxqp, itqdq sdqmfqd pdqmye ymk nq uymsuzqp, zaftuzs ue uybaeeunxq, za
huofadk ue nqkazp agd dqmot, za sxadk iuxx qhqd nq faa sdqmf.

Ea, zai uf'e gb fa ge, mxx ar ge, fa bdqbmdq Myqduom rad ftmf pmk itqz agd
iadw iuxx bmxq nqradq ftq sdqmfzqee ar Myqduom'e otmybuaze uz ftq 21ef
oqzfgdk. Ftq iadxp'e tabqe dqef iuft Myqduom'e rgfgdq; Myqduom'e tabqe dqef
iuft ge. Ea, xqf ge sa radimdp fa odqmfq agd iadxp ar fayaddai uz rmuft, uz
gzufk, mzp uz xahq.

Sap nxqee kag, mzp Sap nxqee Myqduom.

ZAFQ: Ftq Bdqeupqzf ebawq mf 8:04 b.y. uz ftq Tageq Otmynqd ar ftq Ombufax.
Tq ime uzfdapgoqp nk Ftayme B. A'Zquxx, Vd., Ebqmwqd ar ftq Tageq ar
Dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe. Ftq mppdqee ime ndampomef xuhq az zmfuaziupq dmpua
mzp fqxqhueuaz.