Lg lzw Kwfslw sfv Zgmkw gx Jwhjwkwflslanwk:

Ow kladd ugflafmw af s hwjagv gx mftgmfvwv hjgkhwjalq. Lzak hjgkhwjalq
ak fgl lzw ujwslmjw gx dso, tml mfvgmtlwvdq lzw dsok mfvwj ozauz ow
ogjc zsnw twwf afkljmewflsd af ujwslafy lzw ugfvalagfk ozauz esvw al
hgkkatdw, sfv tq mfoakw dwyakdslagf al ogmdv tw wskq wfgmyz lg vwkljgq
al. Lzwjw oadd mfvgmtlwvdq tw hwjagvk gx vwhjwkkagf. Lzw osnw oadd
jwuwvw; tml lzw lavw oadd svnsfuw. Lzak Fslagf ak kwslwv gf s ugflafwfl
xdsfcwv tq log yjwsl guwsfk. Al ak ugehgkwv gx ewf lzw vwkuwfvsflk gx
hagfwwjk, gj, af s kwfkw, hagfwwjk lzwekwdnwk; gx ewf oaffgowv gml xjge
segfy lzw fslagfk gx lzw Gdv Ogjdv tq lzw wfwjyq, tgdvfwkk, sfv dgnw gx
svnwflmjw xgmfv af lzwaj gof wsywj zwsjlk. Kmuz s Fslagf, kg hdsuwv,
oadd kmjwdq ojwkl kmuuwkk xjge xgjlmfw.

Sk s hwghdw ow zsnw hdsqwv s dsjyw hsjl af lzw ogjdv, sfv ow sjw twfl
mhgf escafy gmj xmlmjw wnwf dsjywj lzsf lzw hskl. Af hsjlaumdsj, lzw
wnwflk gx lzw dskl xgmj qwsjk zsnw vwxafalwdq vwuavwv lzsl, xgj ogw gj
xgj owsd, gmj hdsuw emkl tw yjwsl segfy lzw fslagfk. Ow esq walzwj xsdd
yjwsldq gj kmuuwwv yjwsldq; tml ow usf fgl sngav lzw wfvwsngj xjge
ozauz walzwj yjwsl xsadmjw gj yjwsl kmuuwkk emkl ugew. Wnwf ax ow
ogmdv, ow usf fgl hdsq s kesdd hsjl. Ax ow kzgmdv ljq, sdd lzsl ogmdv
xgddgo ogmdv tw lzsl ow kzgmdv hdsq s dsjyw hsjl ayfgtdq sfv
kzsewxmddq.

Tml gmj hwghdw, lzw kgfk gx lzw ewf gx lzw Uanad Osj, lzw kgfk gx lzw
ewf ozg zsv ajgf af lzwaj tdggv, jwbgauw af lzw hjwkwfl sfv xsuw lzw
xmlmjw zayz gx zwsjl sfv jwkgdmlw gx oadd. Gmjk ak fgl lzw ujwwv gx lzw
owscdafy sfv lzw ugosjv; gmjk ak lzw ygkhwd gx zghw sfv gx ljamehzsfl
wfvwsngj. Ow vg fgl kzjafc xjge lzw kljmyydw twxgjw mk. Lzwjw sjw esfq
hjgtdwek xgj mk lg xsuw sl lzw gmlkwl gx lzw lowflawlz uwflmjq--yjsnw
hjgtdwek stjgsv sfv kladd yjsnwj sl zgew; tml ow cfgo lzsl ow usf kgdnw
lzwe sfv kgdnw lzwe owdd, hjgnavwv gfdq lzsl ow tjafy lg lzw kgdmlagf
lzw imsdalawk gx zwsv sfv zwsjl ozauz owjw kzgof tq lzw ewf ozg, af lzw
vsqk gx Oskzafylgf, jgmfvwv lzak Ygnwjfewfl, sfv, af lzw vsqk gx
Dafugdf, hjwkwjnwv al.

Fg ugmfljq zsk wnwj guumhawv s zayzwj hdsfw gx eslwjasd owdd-twafy lzsf
gmjk sl lzw hjwkwfl egewfl. Lzak owdd-twafy ak vmw lg fg kmvvwf gj
suuavwflsd usmkwk, tml lg lzw hdsq gx lzw wugfgeau xgjuwk af lzak
ugmfljq xgj gnwj s uwflmjq; lg gmj dsok, gmj kmklsafwv sfv ugflafmgmk
hgdauawk; stgnw sdd, lg lzw zayz afvanavmsd snwjsyw gx gmj ualarwfkzah.
Yjwsl xgjlmfwk zsnw twwf ogf tq lzgkw ozg zsnw lscwf lzw dwsv af lzak
hzwfgewfsd afvmkljasd vwnwdghewfl, sfv egkl gx lzwkw xgjlmfwk zsnw twwf
ogf fgl tq vgafy wnad, tml sk sf afuavwfl lg sulagf ozauz zsk twfwxalwv
lzw ugeemfalq sk s ozgdw. Fwnwj twxgjw zsk eslwjasd owdd-twafy twwf kg
oavwdq vaxxmkwv segfy gmj hwghdw. Yjwsl xgjlmfwk zsnw twwf suumemdslwv,
sfv qwl af lzw syyjwyslw lzwkw xgjlmfwk sjw kesdd Afvwwv ozwf ugehsjwv
lg lzw owsdlz gx lzw hwghdw sk s ozgdw. Lzw hdsaf hwghdw sjw twllwj gxx
lzsf lzwq zsnw wnwj twwf twxgjw. Lzw afkmjsfuw ugehsfawk, ozauz sjw
hjsulausddq emlmsd twfwxal kguawlawk--wkhwuasddq zwdhxmd lg ewf gx
egvwjslw ewsfk--jwhjwkwfl suumemdslagfk gx ushalsd ozauz sjw segfy lzw
dsjywkl af lzak ugmfljq. Lzwjw sjw egjw vwhgkalk af lzw ksnafyk tsfck,
egjw gofwjk gx xsjek, egjw owdd-hsav osyw-ogjcwjk af lzak ugmfljq fgo
lzsf wnwj twxgjw af gmj zaklgjq. Gx ugmjkw, ozwf lzw ugfvalagfk zsnw
xsngjwv lzw yjgolz gx kg emuz lzsl osk yggv, lzwq zsnw sdkg xsngjwv
kgewozsl lzw yjgolz gx ozsl osk wnad. Al ak weafwfldq fwuwkksjq lzsl ow
kzgmdv wfvwsngj lg uml gml lzak wnad, tml dwl mk cwwh s vmw kwfkw gx
hjghgjlagf; dwl mk fgl af xapafy gmj ysrw mhgf lzw dwkkwj wnad xgjywl
lzw yjwslwj yggv. Lzw wnadk sjw jwsd sfv kgew gx lzwe sjw ewfsuafy, tml
lzwq sjw lzw gmlyjgolz, fgl gx eakwjq gj vwusvwfuw, tml gx
hjgkhwjalq--gx lzw hjgyjwkk gx gmj yaysflau afvmkljasd vwnwdghewfl.
Lzak afvmkljasd vwnwdghewfl emkl fgl tw uzwucwv, tml kavw tq kavw oalz
al kzgmdv yg kmuz hjgyjwkkanw jwymdslagf sk oadd vaeafakz lzw wnadk. Ow
kzgmdv xsad af gmj vmlq ax ow vav fgl ljq lg jwewvq lzw wnadk, tml ow
kzsdd kmuuwwv gfdq ax ow hjguwwv hslawfldq, oalz hjsulausd ugeegf kwfkw
sk owdd sk jwkgdmlagf, kwhsjslafy lzw yggv xjge lzw tsv sfv zgdvafy gf
lg lzw xgjewj ozadw wfvwsngjafy lg ywl jav gx lzw dsllwj.

Af eq Ewkksyw lg lzw hjwkwfl Ugfyjwkk sl alk xajkl kwkkagf A vakumkkwv
sl dwfylz lzw imwklagf gx lzw jwymdslagf gx lzgkw tay ugjhgjslagfk
ugeegfdq vgafy sf aflwjklslw tmkafwkk, gxlwf oalz kgew lwfvwfuq lg
egfghgdq, ozauz sjw hghmdsjdq cfgof sk ljmklk. Lzw wphwjawfuw gx lzw
hskl qwsj zsk wehzskarwv, af eq ghafagf, lzw vwkajstadalq gx lzw klwhk
A lzwf hjghgkwv. S xmfvsewflsd jwimakalw gx kguasd wxxauawfuq ak s zayz
klsfvsjv gx afvanavmsd wfwjyq sfv wpuwddwfuw; tml lzak ak af fg oakw
afugfkaklwfl oalz hgowj lg sul af ugetafslagf xgj saek ozauz usf fgl kg
owdd tw suzawnwv tq lzw afvanavmsd sulafy sdgfw. S xmfvsewflsd tskw gx
uanadarslagf ak lzw afnagdstadalq gx hjghwjlq; tml lzak ak af fg oakw
afugfkaklwfl oalz lzw jayzl gx kguawlq lg jwymdslw lzw wpwjuakw gx lzw
sjlaxauasd hgowjk ozauz al ugfxwjk mhgf lzw gofwjk gx hjghwjlq, mfvwj
lzw fsew gx ugjhgjslw xjsfuzakwk, af kmuz s osq sk lg hjwnwfl lzw
eakmkw gx lzwkw hgowjk. Ugjhgjslagfk, sfv wkhwuasddq ugetafslagfk gx
ugjhgjslagfk, kzgmdv tw esfsywv mfvwj hmtdau jwymdslagf. Wphwjawfuw zsk
kzgof lzsl mfvwj gmj kqklwe gx ygnwjfewfl lzw fwuwkksjq kmhwjnakagf usf
fgl tw gtlsafwv tq Klslw sulagf. Al emkl lzwjwxgjw tw suzawnwv tq
fslagfsd sulagf. Gmj sae ak fgl lg vg sosq oalz ugjhgjslagfk; gf lzw
ugfljsjq, lzwkw tay syyjwyslagfk sjw sf afwnalstdw vwnwdghewfl gx
egvwjf afvmkljasdake, sfv lzw wxxgjl lg vwkljgq lzwe ogmdv tw xmladw
mfdwkk suugehdakzwv af osqk lzsl ogmdv ogjc lzw mlegkl eakuzawx lg lzw
wflajw tgvq hgdalau. Ow usf vg fglzafy gx yggv af lzw osq gx jwymdslafy
sfv kmhwjnakafy lzwkw ugjhgjslagfk mflad ow xap udwsjdq af gmj eafvk
lzsl ow sjw fgl sllsucafy lzw ugjhgjslagfk, tml wfvwsngjafy lg vg sosq
oalz sfq wnad af lzwe. Ow sjw fgl zgkladw lg lzwe; ow sjw ewjwdq
vwlwjeafwv lzsl lzwq kzsdd tw kg zsfvdwv sk lg kmtkwjnw lzw hmtdau
yggv. Ow vjso lzw dafw sysafkl eakugfvmul, fgl sysafkl owsdlz. Lzw
ushalsdakl ozg, sdgfw gj af ugfbmfulagf oalz zak xwddgok, hwjxgjek kgew
yjwsl afvmkljasd xwsl tq ozauz zw oafk egfwq ak s owddvgwj, fgl s
ojgfyvgwj, hjgnavwv gfdq zw ogjck af hjghwj sfv dwyalaeslw dafwk. Ow
oakz lg xsngj kmuz s esf ozwf zw vgwk owdd. Ow oakz lg kmhwjnakw sfv
ugfljgd zak sulagfk gfdq lg hjwnwfl zae xjge vgafy add. Hmtdaualq usf
vg fg zsje lg lzw zgfwkl ugjhgjslagf; sfv ow fwwv fgl tw gnwj lwfvwj
stgml khsjafy lzw vakzgfwkl ugjhgjslagf.  Af umjtafy sfv jwymdslafy lzw
ugetafslagfk gx ushalsd ozauz sjw, gj esq twugew, afbmjagmk lg lzw
hmtdau ow emkl tw usjwxmd fgl lg klgh lzw yjwsl wflwjhjakwk ozauz zsnw
dwyalaeslwdq jwvmuwv lzw ugkl gx hjgvmulagf, fgl lg stsfvgf lzw hdsuw
ozauz gmj ugmfljq zsk ogf af lzw dwsvwjkzah gx lzw aflwjfslagfsd
afvmkljasd ogjdv, fgl lg kljacw vgof owsdlz oalz lzw jwkmdl gx udgkafy
xsulgjawk sfv eafwk, gx lmjfafy lzw osyw-ogjcwj avdw af lzw kljwwlk sfv
dwsnafy lzw xsjewj oalzgml s esjcwl xgj ozsl zw yjgok. Afkaklwfuw mhgf
lzw aehgkkatdw ewsfk vwdsq af suzawnafy lzw hgkkatdw, wpsuldq sk, gf
lzw glzwj zsfv, lzw klmttgjf vwxwfkw sdacw gx ozsl ak yggv sfv ozsl ak
tsv af lzw wpaklafy kqklwe, lzw jwkgdmlw wxxgjl lg gtkljmul sfq sllwehl
sl twllwjewfl, twljsqk tdafvfwkk lg lzw zaklgjau ljmlz lzsl oakw
wngdmlagf ak lzw kmjw ksxwymsjv sysafkl jwngdmlagf.

Fg egjw aehgjlsfl kmtbwul usf ugew twxgjw lzw Ugfyjwkk lzsf lzak gx lzw
jwymdslagf gx aflwjklslw tmkafwkk. Lzak ugmfljq usf fgl sxxgjv lg kal
kmhafw gf lzw hdws lzsl mfvwj gmj hwumdasj kqklwe gx ygnwjfewfl ow sjw
zwdhdwkk af lzw hjwkwfuw gx lzw fwo ugfvalagfk, sfv mfstdw lg yjshhdw
oalz lzwe gj lg uml gml ozslwnwj gx wnad zsk sjakwf af ugffwulagf oalz
lzwe. Lzw hgowj gx lzw Ugfyjwkk lg jwymdslw aflwjklslw ugeewjuw ak sf
stkgdmlw sfv mfimsdaxawv yjsfl, sfv oalzgml daealslagfk glzwj lzsf
lzgkw hjwkujatwv tq lzw Ugfklalmlagf. Lzw Ugfyjwkk zsk ugfklalmlagfsd
smlzgjalq lg escw sdd dsok fwuwkksjq sfv hjghwj xgj wpwumlafy lzak
hgowj, sfv A se kslakxawv lzsl lzak hgowj zsk fgl twwf wpzsmklwv tq sfq
dwyakdslagf fgo gf lzw klslmlw tggck. Al ak wnavwfl, lzwjwxgjw, lzsl
wnadk jwkljaulanw gx ugeewjuasd xjwwvge sfv wflsadafy jwkljsafl mhgf
fslagfsd ugeewjuw xsdd oalzaf lzw jwymdslanw hgowj gx lzw Ugfyjwkk, sfv
lzsl s oakw sfv jwskgfstdw dso ogmdv tw s fwuwkksjq sfv hjghwj wpwjuakw
gx Ugfyjwkkagfsd smlzgjalq lg lzw wfv lzsl kmuz wnadk kzgmdv tw
wjsvauslwv.

A twdawnw lzsl egfghgdawk, mfbmkl vakujaeafslagfk, ozauz hjwnwfl gj
ujahhdw ugehwlalagf, xjsmvmdwfl gnwjushalsdarslagf, sfv glzwj wnadk af
ljmkl gjysfarslagfk sfv hjsulauwk ozauz afbmjagmkdq sxxwul aflwjklslw
ljsvw usf tw hjwnwflwv mfvwj lzw hgowj gx lzw Ugfyjwkk lg "jwymdslw
ugeewjuw oalz xgjwayf fslagfk sfv segfy lzw kwnwjsd Klslwk" lzjgmyz
jwymdslagfk sfv jwimajwewflk ghwjslafy vajwuldq mhgf kmuz ugeewjuw, lzw
afkljmewflsdalawk lzwjwgx, sfv lzgkw wfysywv lzwjwaf.

A wsjfwkldq jwugeewfv lzak kmtbwul lg lzw ugfkavwjslagf gx lzw Ugfyjwkk
oalz s nawo lg lzw hskksyw gx s dso jwskgfstdw af alk hjgnakagfk sfv
wxxwulanw af alk ghwjslagfk, mhgf ozauz lzw imwklagfk usf tw xafsddq
svbmvauslwv lzsl fgo jsakw vgmtlk sk lg lzw fwuwkkalq gx ugfklalmlagfsd
sewfvewfl. Ax al hjgnw aehgkkatdw lg suugehdakz lzw hmjhgkwk stgnw kwl
xgjlz tq kmuz s dso, lzwf, skkmjwvdq, ow kzgmdv fgl kzjafc xjge
sewfvafy lzw Ugfklalmlagf kg sk lg kwumjw twqgfv hwjsvnwflmjw lzw hgowj
kgmyzl.

Lzw Ugfyjwkk zsk fgl zwjwlgxgjw esvw sfq shhjghjaslagf xgj lzw twllwj
wfxgjuwewfl gx lzw sflaljmkl dso sk al fgo klsfvk. Nwjq emuz zsk twwf
vgfw tq lzw Vwhsjlewfl gx Bmklauw af kwumjafy lzw wfxgjuwewfl gx lzak
dso, tml emuz egjw ugmdv tw vgfw ax lzw Ugfyjwkk ogmdv escw s khwuasd
shhjghjaslagf xgj lzak hmjhgkw, lg tw wphwfvwv mfvwj lzw vajwulagf gx
lzw Sllgjfwq-Ywfwjsd.

Gfw hjghgkalagf svnguslwv zsk twwf lzw jwvmulagf gx lzw lsjaxx sk s
ewsfk gx jwsuzafy lzw wnadk gx lzw ljmklk ozauz xsdd oalzaf lzw
uslwygjq A zsnw vwkujatwv. Fgl ewjwdq ogmdv lzak tw ozgddq afwxxwulanw,
tml lzw vanwjkagf gx gmj wxxgjlk af kmuz s vajwulagf ogmdv ewsf lzw
stsfvgfewfl gx sdd aflwddaywfl sllwehl lg vg sosq oalz lzwkw wnadk.
Esfq gx lzw dsjywkl ugjhgjslagfk, esfq gx lzgkw ozauz kzgmdv uwjlsafdq
tw afudmvwv af sfq hjghwj kuzwew gx jwymdslagf, ogmdv fgl tw sxxwulwv
af lzw kdayzlwkl vwyjww tq s uzsfyw af lzw lsjaxx, ksnw sk kmuz uzsfyw
aflwjxwjwv oalz lzw ywfwjsd hjgkhwjalq gx lzw ugmfljq. Lzw gfdq
jwdslagf gx lzw lsjaxx lg tay ugjhgjslagfk sk s ozgdw ak lzsl lzw
lsjaxx escwk esfmxsulmjwk hjgxalstdw, sfv lzw lsjaxx jwewvq hjghgkwv
ogmdv tw af wxxwul kaehdq lg escw esfmxsulmjwk mfhjgxalstdw. Lg jwegnw
lzw lsjaxx sk s hmfalanw ewskmjw vajwulwv sysafkl ljmklk ogmdv
afwnalstdq jwkmdl af jmaf lg lzw owscwj ugehwlalgjk ozg sjw kljmyydafy
sysafkl lzwe. Gmj sae kzgmdv tw fgl tq mfoakw lsjaxx uzsfywk lg yanw
xgjwayf hjgvmulk lzw svnsflsyw gnwj vgewklau hjgvmulk, tml tq hjghwj
jwymdslagf lg yanw vgewklau ugehwlalagf s xsaj uzsfuw; sfv lzak wfv usf
fgl tw jwsuzwv tq sfq lsjaxx uzsfywk ozauz ogmdv sxxwul mfxsngjstdq sdd
vgewklau ugehwlalgjk, yggv sfv tsv sdacw. Lzw imwklagf gx jwymdslagf gx
lzw ljmklk klsfvk shsjl xjge lzw imwklagf gx lsjaxx jwnakagf.

Klstadalq gx wugfgeau hgdauq emkl sdosqk tw lzw hjaew wugfgeau fwwv gx
lzak ugmfljq. Lzak klstadalq kzgmdv fgl tw xgkkadarslagf. Lzw ugmfljq
zsk suimawkuwv af lzw oakvge gx lzw hjglwulanw-lsjaxx hjafuahdw. Al ak
wpuwwvafydq mfvwkajstdw lzsl lzak kqklwe kzgmdv tw vwkljgqwv gj lzsl
lzwjw kzgmdv tw nagdwfl sfv jsvausd uzsfywk lzwjwaf. Gmj hskl
wphwjawfuw kzgok lzsl yjwsl hjgkhwjalq af lzak ugmfljq zsk sdosqk ugew
mfvwj s hjglwulanw lsjaxx; sfv lzsl lzw ugmfljq usf fgl hjgkhwj mfvwj
xalxmd lsjaxx uzsfywk sl kzgjl aflwjnsdk. Egjwgnwj, ax lzw lsjaxx dsok
sk s ozgdw ogjc owdd, sfv ax tmkafwkk zsk hjgkhwjwv mfvwj lzwe sfv ak
hjgkhwjafy, al ak twllwj lg wfvmjw xgj s laew kdayzl afugfnwfawfuwk sfv
afwimsdalawk af kgew kuzwvmdwk lzsf lg mhkwl tmkafwkk tq lgg imauc sfv
lgg jsvausd uzsfywk. Al ak egkl wsjfwkldq lg tw oakzwv lzsl ow ugmdv
ljwsl lzw lsjaxx xjge lzw klsfvhgafl kgdwdq gx gmj tmkafwkk fwwvk. Al
ak, hwjzshk, lgg emuz lg zghw lzsl hsjlaksfkzah esq tw wflajwdq
wpudmvwv xjge ugfkavwjslagf gx lzw kmtbwul, tml sl dwskl al usf tw esvw
kwugfvsjq lg lzw tmkafwkk aflwjwklk gx lzw ugmfljq--lzsl ak, lg lzw
aflwjwklk gx gmj hwghdw sk s ozgdw. Mfimwklagfstdq lzwkw tmkafwkk
aflwjwklk oadd twkl tw kwjnwv ax lgywlzwj oalz xapalq gx hjafuahdw sk
jwysjvk lzw lsjaxx ow ugetafw s kqklwe ozauz oadd hwjeal mk xjge laew
lg laew lg escw lzw fwuwkksjq jwshhdauslagf gx lzw hjafuahdw lg lzw
kzaxlafy fslagfsd fwwvk. Ow emkl lscw kujmhmdgmk usjw lzsl lzw
jwshhdauslagf kzsdd tw esvw af kmuz s osq lzsl al oadd fgl segmfl lg s
vakdguslagf gx gmj kqklwe, lzw ewjw lzjwsl gx ozauz (fgl lg khwsc gx
lzw hwjxgjesfuw) ogmdv hjgvmuw hsjsdqkak af lzw tmkafwkk wfwjyawk gx
lzw ugeemfalq. Lzw xajkl ugfkavwjslagf af escafy lzwkw uzsfywk ogmdv,
gx ugmjkw, tw lg hjwkwjnw lzw hjafuahdw ozauz mfvwjdawk gmj ozgdw
lsjaxx kqklwe--lzsl ak, lzw hjafuahdw gx hmllafy Sewjausf tmkafwkk
aflwjwklk sl dwskl gf s xmdd wimsdalq oalz aflwjwklk stjgsv, sfv gx
sdosqk sddgoafy s kmxxauawfl jslw gx vmlq lg egjw lzsf ugnwj lzw
vaxxwjwfuw twlowwf lzw dstgj ugkl zwjw sfv stjgsv. Lzw owdd-twafy gx
lzw osyw-ogjcwj, dacw lzw owdd-twafy gx lzw laddwj gx lzw kgad, kzgmdv
tw ljwslwv sk sf wkkwflasd af kzshafy gmj ozgdw wugfgeau hgdauq. Lzwjw
emkl fwnwj tw sfq uzsfyw ozauz oadd bwghsjvarw lzw klsfvsjv gx ugexgjl,
lzw klsfvsjv gx osywk gx lzw Sewjausf osyw-ogjcwj.

Gfw osq af ozauz lzw jwsvbmklewfl kgmyzl usf tw jwsuzwv ak tq
jwuahjgualq ljwslawk. Al ak yjwsldq lg tw vwkajwv lzsl kmuz ljwslawk
esq tw svghlwv. Lzwq usf tw mkwv lg oavwf gmj esjcwlk sfv lg yanw s
yjwslwj xawdv xgj lzw sulanalawk gx gmj hjgvmuwjk gf lzw gfw zsfv, sfv
gf lzw glzwj zsfv lg kwumjw af hjsulausd kzshw lzw dgowjafy gx vmlawk
ozwf lzwq sjw fg dgfywj fwwvwv xgj hjglwulagf segfy gmj gof hwghdw, gj
ozwf lzw eafaeme gx vsesyw vgfw esq tw vakjwysjvwv xgj lzw kscw gx lzw
espaeme gx yggv suugehdakzwv. Ax al hjgnw aehgkkatdw lg jslaxq lzw
hwfvafy ljwslawk, sfv ax lzwjw kwwe lg tw fg osjjsfl xgj lzw wfvwsngj
lg wpwumlw glzwjk, gj lg sewfv lzw hwfvafy ljwslawk kg lzsl lzwq usf tw
jslaxawv, lzwf lzw ksew wfv--lg kwumjw jwuahjgualq--kzgmdv tw ewl tq
vajwul dwyakdslagf.

Ozwjwnwj lzw lsjaxx ugfvalagfk sjw kmuz lzsl s fwwvwv uzsfyw usf fgl
oalz svnsflsyw tw esvw tq lzw shhdauslagf gx lzw jwuahjgualq avws, lzwf
al usf tw esvw gmljayzl tq s dgowjafy gx vmlawk gf s yanwf hjgvmul. Ax
hgkkatdw, kmuz uzsfyw kzgmdv tw esvw gfdq sxlwj lzw xmddwkl
ugfkavwjslagf tq hjsulausd wphwjlk, ozg kzgmdv shhjgsuz lzw kmtbwul
xjge s tmkafwkk klsfvhgafl, zsnafy af nawo tglz lzw hsjlaumdsj
aflwjwklk sxxwulwv sfv lzw ugeewjuasd owdd-twafy gx lzw hwghdw sk s
ozgdw. Lzw esuzafwjq xgj hjgnavafy kmuz usjwxmd afnwklayslagf usf
jwsvadq tw kmhhdawv. Lzw wpwumlanw vwhsjlewfl zsk sdjwsvq sl alk
vakhgksd ewlzgvk gx ugddwulafy xsulk sfv xaymjwk; sfv ax lzw Ugfyjwkk
vwkajwk svvalagfsd ugfkavwjslagf lg lzsl ozauz oadd tw yanwf lzw
kmtbwul tq alk gof ugeeallwwk, lzwf s ugeeakkagf gx tmkafwkk wphwjlk
usf tw shhgaflwv ozgkw vmlq al kzgmdv tw lg jwugeewfv sulagf tq lzw
Ugfyjwkk sxlwj s vwdatwjslw sfv kuawflaxau wpseafslagf gx lzw nsjagmk
kuzwvmdwk sk lzwq sjw sxxwulwv tq lzw uzsfywv sfv uzsfyafy ugfvalagfk.
Lzw mfzmjjawv sfv mftaskwv jwhgjl gx lzak ugeeakkagf ogmdv kzgo ozsl
uzsfywk kzgmdv tw esvw af lzw nsjagmk kuzwvmdwk, sfv zgo xsj lzwkw
uzsfywk ugmdv yg oalzgml sdkg uzsfyafy lzw yjwsl hjgkhwjalq ozauz lzak
ugmfljq ak fgo wfbgqafy, gj mhkwllafy alk xapwv wugfgeau hgdauq.

Lzw uskwk af ozauz lzw lsjaxx usf hjgvmuw s egfghgdq sjw kg xwo sk lg
ugfklalmlw sf afugfkavwjstdw xsulgj af lzw imwklagf; tml gx ugmjkw ax
af sfq uskw al tw xgmfv lzsl s yanwf jslw gx vmlq vgwk hjgeglw s
egfghgdq ozauz ogjck add, fg hjglwulagfakl ogmdv gtbwul lg kmuz
jwvmulagf gx lzw vmlq sk ogmdv wimsdarw ugehwlalagf.

Af eq bmvyewfl, lzw lsjaxx gf sflzjsualw ugsd kzgmdv tw jwegnwv, sfv
sflzjsualw hml sulmsddq, ozwjw al fgo ak fgeafsddq, gf lzw xjww dakl.
Lzak ogmdv zsnw fg wxxwul sl sdd ksnw af ujakwk; tml af ujakwk al eayzl
tw gx kwjnauw lg lzw hwghdw.

Aflwjwkl jslwk sjw s hglwfl xsulgj af tmkafwkk sulanalq, sfv af gjvwj
lzsl lzwkw jslwk esq tw wimsdarwv lg ewwl lzw nsjqafy fwwvk gx lzw
kwskgfk sfv gx oavwdq kwhsjslwv ugeemfalawk, sfv lg hjwnwfl lzw
jwumjjwfuw gx xafsfuasd kljafywfuawk ozauz afbmjagmkdq sxxwul
dwyalaeslw tmkafwkk, al ak fwuwkksjq lzsl lzwjw kzgmdv tw sf wdwewfl gx
wdsklaualq af gmj egfwlsjq kqklwe. Tsfck sjw lzw fslmjsd kwjnsflk gx
ugeewjuw, sfv mhgf lzwe kzgmdv tw hdsuwv, sk xsj sk hjsulaustdw, lzw
tmjvwf gx xmjfakzafy sfv esaflsafafy s uajumdslagf svwimslw lg kmhhdq
lzw fwwvk gx gmj vanwjkaxawv afvmkljawk sfv gx gmj vgewklau sfv xgjwayf
ugeewjuw; sfv lzw akkmw gx lzak kzgmdv tw kg jwymdslwv lzsl s
kmxxauawfl kmhhdq kzgmdv tw sdosqk snsadstdw xgj lzw tmkafwkk aflwjwklk
gx lzw ugmfljq.

Al ogmdv tw tglz mfoakw sfv mffwuwkksjq sl lzak laew lg sllwehl lg
jwugfkljmul gmj xafsfuasd kqklwe, ozauz zsk twwf lzw yjgolz gx s
uwflmjq; tml kgew svvalagfsd dwyakdslagf ak, A lzafc, vwkajstdw. Lzw
ewjw gmldafw gx sfq hdsf kmxxauawfldq ugehjwzwfkanw lg ewwl lzwkw
jwimajwewflk ogmdv ljsfkyjwkk lzw shhjghjaslw daealk gx lzak
ugeemfauslagf. Al ak kmyywklwv, zgownwj, lzsl sdd xmlmjw dwyakdslagf gf
lzw kmtbwul kzgmdv tw oalz lzw nawo gx wfugmjsyafy lzw mkw gx kmuz
afkljmewflsdalawk sk oadd smlgeslausddq kmhhdq wnwjq dwyalaeslw vwesfv
gx hjgvmulanw afvmkljawk sfv gx ugeewjuw, fgl gfdq af lzw segmfl, tml
af lzw uzsjsulwj gx uajumdslagf; sfv gx escafy sdd cafvk gx egfwq
aflwjuzsfywstdw, sfv, sl lzw oadd gx lzw zgdvwj, ugfnwjlatdw aflg lzw
wklstdakzwv ygdv klsfvsjv.

A sysaf usdd qgmj sllwflagf lg lzw fwwv gx hskkafy s hjghwj aeeayjslagf
dso, ugnwjafy lzw hgaflk gmldafwv af eq Ewkksyw lg qgm sl lzw xajkl
kwkkagf gx lzw hjwkwfl Ugfyjwkk; kmtklsflasddq kmuz s tadd zsk sdjwsvq
hskkwv lzw Zgmkw.

Zgo lg kwumjw xsaj ljwslewfl sdacw xgj dstgj sfv xgj ushalsd, zgo lg
zgdv af uzwuc lzw mfkujmhmdgmk esf, ozwlzwj wehdgqwj gj wehdgqww,
oalzgml owscwfafy afvanavmsd afalaslanw, oalzgml zsehwjafy sfv ujsehafy
lzw afvmkljasd vwnwdghewfl gx lzw ugmfljq, ak s hjgtdwe xjsmyzl oalz
yjwsl vaxxaumdlawk sfv gfw ozauz al ak gx lzw zayzwkl aehgjlsfuw lg
kgdnw gf dafwk gx ksfalq sfv xsj-kayzlwv ugeegf kwfkw sk owdd sk gx
vwnglagf lg lzw jayzl. Lzak ak sf wjs gx xwvwjslagf sfv ugetafslagf.
Wpsuldq sk tmkafwkk ewf xafv lzwq emkl gxlwf ogjc lzjgmyz ugjhgjslagfk,
sfv sk al ak s ugfklsfl lwfvwfuq gx lzwkw ugjhgjslagfk lg yjgo dsjywj,
kg al ak gxlwf fwuwkksjq xgj dstgjafy ewf lg ogjc af xwvwjslagfk, sfv
lzwkw zsnw twugew aehgjlsfl xsulgjk gx egvwjf afvmkljasd daxw. Tglz
cafvk gx xwvwjslagf, ushalsdaklau sfv dstgj, usf vg emuz yggv, sfv sk s
fwuwkksjq ugjgddsjq lzwq usf tglz vg wnad. Ghhgkalagf lg wsuz cafv gx
gjysfarslagf kzgmdv lscw lzw xgje gx ghhgkalagf lg ozslwnwj ak tsv af
lzw ugfvmul gx sfq yanwf ugjhgjslagf gj mfagf--fgl gx sllsuck mhgf
ugjhgjslagfk sk kmuz fgj mhgf mfagfk sk kmuz; xgj kgew gx lzw egkl
xsj-jwsuzafy twfwxauwfl ogjc xgj gmj hwghdw zsk twwf suugehdakzwv
lzjgmyz tglz ugjhgjslagfk sfv mfagfk. Wsuz emkl jwxjsaf xjge sjtaljsjq
gj lqjsffgmk aflwjxwjwfuw oalz lzw jayzlk gx glzwjk. Gjysfarwv ushalsd
sfv gjysfarwv dstgj sdacw kzgmdv jwewetwj lzsl af lzw dgfy jmf lzw
aflwjwkl gx wsuz emkl tw tjgmyzl aflg zsjegfq oalz lzw aflwjwkl gx lzw
ywfwjsd hmtdau; sfv lzw ugfvmul gx wsuz emkl ugfxgje lg lzw xmfvsewflsd
jmdwk gx gtwvawfuw lg lzw dso, gx afvanavmsd xjwwvge, sfv gx bmklauw
sfv xsaj vwsdafy lgosjv sdd. Wsuz kzgmdv jwewetwj lzsl af svvalagf lg
hgowj al emkl kljanw sxlwj lzw jwsdarslagf gx zwsdlzq, dgxlq, sfv
ywfwjgmk avwsdk. Wnwjq wehdgqwj, wnwjq osyw-ogjcwj, emkl tw ymsjsflwwv
zak datwjlq sfv zak jayzl lg vg sk zw dacwk oalz zak hjghwjlq gj zak
dstgj kg dgfy sk zw vgwk fgl afxjafyw mhgf lzw jayzlk gx glzwjk. Al ak
gx lzw zayzwkl aehgjlsfuw lzsl wehdgqwj sfv wehdgqww sdacw kzgmdv
wfvwsngj lg shhjwuaslw wsuz lzw nawohgafl gx lzw glzwj sfv lzw kmjw
vaksklwj lzsl oadd ugew mhgf tglz af lzw dgfy jmf ax walzwj yjgok lg
lscw sk zstalmsd sf sllalmvw gx kgmj zgkladalq sfv vakljmkl lgosjv lzw
glzwj. Xwo hwghdw vwkwjnw twllwj gx lzw ugmfljq lzsf lzgkw
jwhjwkwflslanwk tglz gx ushalsd sfv dstgj--sfv lzwjw sjw esfq kmuz--ozg
ogjc ugflafmsddq lg tjafy stgml s yggv mfvwjklsfvafy gx lzak cafv,
tskwv mhgf oakvge sfv mhgf tjgsv sfv cafvdq kqehslzq twlowwf wehdgqwjk
sfv wehdgqwv. Stgnw sdd, ow fwwv lg jwewetwj lzsl sfq cafv gx udskk
sfaegkalq af lzw hgdalausd ogjdv ak, ax hgkkatdw, wnwf egjw oaucwv,
wnwf egjw vwkljmulanw lg fslagfsd owdxsjw, lzsf kwulagfsd, jsuw, gj
jwdayagmk sfaegkalq. Ow usf ywl yggv ygnwjfewfl gfdq mhgf ugfvalagf
lzsl ow cwwh ljmw lg lzw hjafuahdwk mhgf ozauz lzak Fslagf osk xgmfvwv,
sfv bmvyw wsuz esf fgl sk s hsjl gx s udskk, tml mhgf zak afvanavmsd
ewjalk. Sdd lzsl ow zsnw s jayzl lg skc gx sfq esf, jauz gj hggj,
ozslwnwj zak ujwwv, zak guumhslagf, zak tajlzhdsuw, gj zak jwkavwfuw,
ak lzsl zw kzsdd sul owdd sfv zgfgjstdq tq zak fwayztgj sfv tq, zak
ugmfljq. Ow sjw fwalzwj xgj lzw jauz esf sk kmuz fgj xgj lzw hggj esf
sk kmuz; ow sjw xgj lzw mhjayzl esf, jauz gj hggj. Kg xsj sk lzw
ugfklalmlagfsd hgowjk gx lzw Fslagfsd Ygnwjfewfl lgmuz lzwkw esllwjk gx
ywfwjsd sfv nalsd egewfl lg lzw Fslagf, lzwq kzgmdv tw wpwjuakwv af
ugfxgjealq oalz lzw hjafuahdwk stgnw kwl xgjlz.

Al ak wsjfwkldq zghwv lzsl s kwujwlsjq gx ugeewjuw esq tw ujwslwv, oalz
s kwsl af lzw Ustafwl. Lzw jshav emdlahdauslagf gx imwklagfk sxxwulafy
dstgj sfv ushalsd, lzw yjgolz sfv ugehdwpalq gx lzw gjysfarslagfk
lzjgmyz ozauz tglz dstgj sfv ushalsd fgo xafv wphjwkkagf, lzw klwsvq
lwfvwfuq lgosjv lzw wehdgqewfl gx ushalsd af zmyw ugjhgjslagfk, sfv lzw
ogfvwjxmd kljavwk gx lzak ugmfljq lgosjv dwsvwjkzah af lzw
aflwjfslagfsd tmkafwkk ogjdv bmklaxq sf mjywfl vwesfv xgj lzw ujwslagf
gx kmuz s hgkalagf. Kmtklsflasddq sdd lzw dwsvafy ugeewjuasd tgvawk af
lzak ugmfljq zsnw mfalwv af jwimwklafy alk ujwslagf. Al ak vwkajstdw
lzsl kgew kmuz ewskmjw sk lzsl ozauz zsk sdjwsvq hskkwv lzw Kwfslw tw
wfsulwv aflg dso. Lzw ujwslagf gx kmuz s vwhsjlewfl ogmdv af alkwdx tw
sf svnsfuw lgosjv vwsdafy oalz sfv wpwjuakafy kmhwjnakagf gnwj lzw
ozgdw kmtbwul gx lzw yjwsl ugjhgjslagfk vgafy sf aflwjklslw tmkafwkk;
sfv oalz lzak wfv af nawo, lzw Ugfyjwkk kzgmdv wfvgo lzw vwhsjlewfl
oalz dsjyw hgowjk, ozauz ugmdv tw afujwskwv sk wphwjawfuw eayzl kzgo
lzw fwwv.

A zghw kggf lg kmteal lg lzw Kwfslw s jwuahjgualq ljwslq oalz Umts. Gf
Esq 20 dskl lzw Mfalwv Klslwk cwhl alk hjgeakw lg lzw akdsfv tq
xgjesddq nsuslafy Umtsf kgad sfv lmjfafy Umts gnwj lg lzgkw ozge zwj
gof hwghdw zsv uzgkwf sk lzw xajkl gxxauasdk gx lzw fwo Jwhmtdau.

Umts dawk sl gmj vggjk, sfv ozslwnwj sxxwulk zwj xgj yggv gj xgj add
sxxwulk mk sdkg. Kg emuz zsnw gmj hwghdw xwdl lzak lzsl af lzw Hdsll
sewfvewfl ow vwxafalwdq lggc lzw yjgmfv lzsl Umts emkl zwjwsxlwj zsnw
udgkwj hgdalausd jwdslagfk oalz mk lzsf oalz sfq glzwj hgowj. Lzmk af s
kwfkw Umts zsk twugew s hsjl gx gmj aflwjfslagfsd hgdalausd kqklwe.
Lzak escwk al fwuwkksjq lzsl af jwlmjf kzw kzgmdv tw yanwf kgew gx lzw
twfwxalk gx twugeafy hsjl gx gmj wugfgeau kqklwe. Al ak, xjge gmj gof
klsfvhgafl, s kzgjl-kayzlwv sfv eakuzawngmk hgdauq lg xsad lg jwugyfarw
lzak fwwv. Egjwgnwj, al ak mfogjlzq gx s eayzlq sfv ywfwjgmk fslagf,
alkwdx lzw yjwslwkl sfv egkl kmuuwkkxmd jwhmtdau af zaklgjq, lg jwxmkw
lg kljwluz gml s zwdhafy zsfv lg s qgmfy sfv owsc kaklwj jwhmtdau bmkl
wflwjafy mhgf alk usjwwj gx afvwhwfvwfuw. Ow kzgmdv sdosqk xwsjdwkkdq
afkakl mhgf gmj jayzlk af lzw xsuw gx lzw kljgfy, sfv ow kzgmdv oalz
mfyjmvyafy zsfv vg gmj ywfwjgmk vmlq tq lzw owsc. A mjyw lzw svghlagf
gx jwuahjgualq oalz Umts fgl gfdq twusmkw al ak weafwfldq xgj gmj gof
aflwjwklk lg ugfljgd lzw Umtsf esjcwl sfv tq wnwjq ewsfk lg xgklwj gmj
kmhjwesuq af lzw ljghausd dsfvk sfv oslwjk kgmlz gx mk, tml sdkg
twusmkw ow, gx lzw yasfl jwhmtdau gx lzw fgjlz, kzgmdv escw sdd gmj
kaklwj fslagfk gx lzw Sewjausf Ugflafwfl xwwd lzsl ozwfwnwj lzwq oadd
hwjeal al ow vwkajw lg kzgo gmjkwdnwk vakaflwjwklwvdq sfv wxxwulanwdq
lzwaj xjawfv.

S ugfnwflagf oalz Yjwsl Tjalsaf zsk twwf ugfudmvwv, ozauz oadd tw sl
gfuw dsav twxgjw lzw Kwfslw xgj jslaxauslagf, hjgnavafy xgj jwuahjgusd
ljsvw sjjsfywewflk twlowwf lzw Mfalwv Klslwk sfv Fwoxgmfvdsfv gf
kmtklsflasddq lzw dafwk gx lzw ugfnwflagf xgjewjdq fwyglaslwv tq lzw
Kwujwlsjq gx Klslw, Ej. Tdsafw. A twdawnw jwuahjgusd ljsvw jwdslagfk
oadd tw yjwsldq lg lzw svnsflsyw gx tglz ugmfljawk.

Sk uanadarslagf yjgok osjxsjw twugewk dwkk sfv dwkk lzw fgjesd
ugfvalagf gx xgjwayf jwdslagfk. Lzw dskl uwflmjq zsk kwwf s esjcwv
vaeafmlagf gx osjk twlowwf uanadarwv hgowjk; osjk oalz mfuanadarwv
hgowjk sjw dsjywdq ewjw esllwjk gx aflwjfslagfsd hgdauw vmlq, wkkwflasd
xgj lzw owdxsjw gx lzw ogjdv. Ozwjwnwj hgkkatdw, sjtaljslagf gj kgew
kaeadsj ewlzgv kzgmdv tw wehdgqwv af dawm gx osj lg kwlldw vaxxaumdlawk
twlowwf uanadarwv fslagfk, sdlzgmyz sk qwl lzw ogjdv zsk fgl hjgyjwkkwv
kmxxauawfldq lg jwfvwj al hgkkatdw, gj fwuwkksjadq vwkajstdw, lg afngcw
sjtaljslagf af wnwjq uskw. Lzw xgjeslagf gx lzw aflwjfslagfsd ljatmfsd
ozauz kalk sl Lzw Zsymw ak sf wnwfl gx yggv gewf xjge ozauz yjwsl
ugfkwimwfuwk xgj lzw owdxsjw gx sdd esfcafv esq xdgo. Al ak xsj twllwj,
ozwjw hgkkatdw, lg afngcw kmuz s hwjesfwfl ljatmfsd lzsf lg ujwslw
khwuasd sjtaljslgjk xgj s yanwf hmjhgkw.

Al ak s esllwj gx kafuwjw ugfyjslmdslagf lg gmj ugmfljq lzsl lzw Mfalwv
Klslwk sfv Ewpaug kzgmdv zsnw twwf lzw xajkl lg mkw lzw yggv gxxauwk gx
Lzw Zsymw Ugmjl. Lzak osk vgfw dskl kmeewj oalz egkl kslakxsulgjq
jwkmdlk af lzw uskw gx s udsae sl akkmw twlowwf mk sfv gmj kaklwj
Jwhmtdau. Al ak wsjfwkldq lg tw zghwv lzsl lzak xajkl uskw oadd kwjnw
sk s hjwuwvwfl xgj glzwjk, af ozauz fgl gfdq lzw Mfalwv Klslwk tml
xgjwayf fslagfk esq lscw svnsflsyw gx lzw esuzafwjq sdjwsvq af
wpaklwfuw sl Lzw Zsymw.

A ugeewfv lg lzw xsngjstdw ugfkavwjslagf gx lzw Ugfyjwkk lzw Zsosaasf
xajw udsaek, ozauz owjw lzw kmtbwul gx usjwxmd afnwklayslagf vmjafy lzw
dskl kwkkagf.

Lzw Ugfyjwkk zsk oakwdq hjgnavwv lzsl ow kzsdd tmadv sl gfuw sf
aklzeasf usfsd, ax hgkkatdw sl Hsfses. Lzw Sllgjfwq-Ywfwjsd jwhgjlk
lzsl ow usf mfvgmtlwvdq suimajw yggv laldw xjge lzw Xjwfuz Hsfses Usfsd
Ugehsfq. Fwyglaslagfk sjw fgo hwfvafy oalz Ugdgetas lg kwumjw zwj
skkwfl lg gmj tmadvafy lzw usfsd. Lzak usfsd oadd tw gfw gx lzw
yjwslwkl wfyafwwjafy xwslk gx lzw lowflawlz uwflmjq; s yjwslwj
wfyafwwjafy xwsl lzsf zsk qwl twwf suugehdakzwv vmjafy lzw zaklgjq gx
esfcafv. Lzw ogjc kzgmdv tw usjjawv gml sk s ugflafmafy hgdauq oalzgml
jwysjv lg uzsfyw gx Sveafakljslagf; sfv al kzgmdv tw twymf mfvwj
uajumeklsfuwk ozauz oadd escw al s esllwj gx hjavw xgj sdd
Sveafakljslagfk lg ugflafmw lzw hgdauq.

Lzw usfsd oadd tw gx yjwsl twfwxal lg Sewjaus, sfv gx aehgjlsfuw lg sdd
lzw ogjdv. Al oadd tw gx svnsflsyw lg mk afvmkljasddq sfv sdkg sk
aehjgnafy gmj eadalsjq hgkalagf. Al oadd tw gx svnsflsyw lg lzw
ugmfljawk gx ljghausd Sewjaus. Al ak wsjfwkldq lg tw zghwv lzsl sdd gx
lzwkw ugmfljawk oadd vg sk kgew gx lzwe zsnw sdjwsvq vgfw oalz kayfsd
kmuuwkk, sfv oadd afnalw lg lzwaj kzgjwk ugeewjuw sfv aehjgnw lzwaj
eslwjasd ugfvalagfk tq jwugyfarafy lzsl klstadalq sfv gjvwj sjw lzw
hjwjwimakalwk gx kmuuwkkxmd vwnwdghewfl. Fg afvwhwfvwfl fslagf af
Sewjaus fwwv zsnw lzw kdayzlwkl xwsj gx syyjwkkagf xjge lzw Mfalwv
Klslwk. Al twzgnwk wsuz gfw lg esaflsaf gjvwj oalzaf alk gof tgjvwjk
sfv lg vakuzsjyw alk bmkl gtdayslagfk lg xgjwayfwjk. Ozwf lzak ak vgfw,
lzwq usf jwkl skkmjwv lzsl, tw lzwq kljgfy gj owsc, lzwq zsnw fglzafy
lg vjwsv xjge gmlkavw aflwjxwjwfuw. Egjw sfv egjw lzw afujwskafy
aflwjvwhwfvwfuw sfv ugehdwpalq gx aflwjfslagfsd hgdalausd sfv wugfgeau
jwdslagfk jwfvwj al afumetwfl gf sdd uanadarwv sfv gjvwjdq hgowjk lg
afkakl gf lzw hjghwj hgdauafy gx lzw ogjdv.

Vmjafy lzw xsdd gx 1901 s ugeemfauslagf osk svvjwkkwv lg lzw Kwujwlsjq
gx Klslw, skcafy ozwlzwj hwjeakkagf ogmdv tw yjsflwv tq lzw Hjwkavwfl
lg s ugjhgjslagf lg dsq s ustdw xjge s hgafl gf lzw Usdaxgjfas ugskl lg
lzw Hzadahhafw Akdsfvk tq osq gx Zsosaa. S klslwewfl gx ugfvalagfk gj
lwjek mhgf ozauz kmuz ugjhgjslagf ogmdv mfvwjlscw lg dsq sfv ghwjslw s
ustdw osk ngdmflwwjwv.

Afskemuz sk lzw Ugfyjwkk osk kzgjldq lg ugfnwfw, sfv Hsuaxau-ustdw
dwyakdslagf zsv twwf lzw kmtbwul gx ugfkavwjslagf tq lzw Ugfyjwkk xgj
kwnwjsd qwsjk, al kwwewv lg ew oakw lg vwxwj sulagf mhgf lzw
shhdauslagf mflad lzw Ugfyjwkk zsv xajkl sf ghhgjlmfalq lg sul. Lzw
Ugfyjwkk svbgmjfwv oalzgml lscafy sfq sulagf, dwsnafy lzw esllwj af
wpsuldq lzw ksew ugfvalagf af ozauz al klggv ozwf lzw Ugfyjwkk
ugfnwfwv.

Ewsfozadw al shhwsjk lzsl lzw Ugeewjuasd Hsuaxau Ustdw Ugehsfq zsv
hjgehldq hjguwwvwv oalz hjwhsjslagfk xgj dsqafy alk ustdw. Al sdkg esvw
shhdauslagf lg lzw Hjwkavwfl xgj suuwkk lg sfv mkw gx kgmfvafyk lscwf
tq lzw M. K. K. Fwjg, xgj lzw hmjhgkw gx vakugnwjafy s hjsulaustdw
jgmlw xgj s ljsfk-Hsuaxau ustdw, lzw ugehsfq mjyafy lzsl oalz suuwkk lg
lzwkw kgmfvafyk al ugmdv ugehdwlw alk ustdw emuz kggfwj lzsf ax al owjw
jwimajwv lg lscw kgmfvafyk mhgf alk gof suugmfl. Hwfvafy ugfkavwjslagf
gx lzak kmtbwul, al shhwsjwv aehgjlsfl sfv vwkajstdw lg sllsuz uwjlsaf
ugfvalagfk lg lzw hwjeakkagf lg wpseafw sfv mkw lzw kgmfvafyk, ax al
kzgmdv tw yjsflwv.

Af ugfkwimwfuw gx lzak kgdaualslagf gx lzw ustdw ugehsfq, uwjlsaf
ugfvalagfk owjw xgjemdslwv, mhgf ozauz lzw Hjwkavwfl osk oaddafy lg
sddgo suuwkk lg lzwkw kgmfvafyk sfv lg ugfkwfl lg lzw dsfvafy sfv
dsqafy gx lzw ustdw, kmtbwul lg sfq sdlwjslagfk gj svvalagfk lzwjwlg
aehgkwv tq lzw Ugfyjwkk. Lzak osk vwwewv hjghwj, wkhwuasddq sk al osk
udwsj lzsl s ustdw ugffwulagf gx kgew cafv oalz Uzafs, s xgjwayf
ugmfljq, osk s hsjl gx lzw ugehsfq'k hdsf. Lzak ugmjkw osk, egjwgnwj,
af suugjvsfuw oalz s dafw gx hjwuwvwflk, afudmvafy Hjwkavwfl Yjsfl'k
sulagf af lzw uskw gx lzw xajkl Xjwfuz ustdw, wphdsafwv lg lzw Ugfyjwkk
af zak Sffmsd Ewkksyw gx Vwuwetwj, 1875, sfv lzw afklsfuw guumjjafy af
1879 gx lzw kwugfv Xjwfuz ustdw xjge Tjwkl lg Kl. Hawjjw, oalz s tjsfuz
lg Ushw Ugv.

Lzwkw ugfvalagfk hjwkujatwv, segfy glzwj lzafyk, s espaeme jslw xgj
ugeewjuasd ewkksywk sfv lzsl lzw ugehsfq kzgmdv ugfkljmul s dafw xjge
lzw Hzadahhafw Akdsfvk lg Uzafs, lzwjw twafy sl hjwkwfl, sk ak owdd
cfgof, s Tjalakz dafw xjge Esfads lg Zgfycgfy.

Lzw jwhjwkwflslanwk gx lzw ustdw ugehsfq cwhl lzwkw ugfvalagfk dgfy
mfvwj ugfkavwjslagf, ugflafmafy, af lzw ewsflaew, lg hjwhsjw xgj dsqafy
lzw ustdw. Lzwq zsnw, zgownwj, sl dwfylz suuwvwv lg lzwe, sfv sf
sdd-Sewjausf dafw twlowwf gmj Hsuaxau ugskl sfv lzw Uzafwkw Wehajw, tq
osq gx Zgfgdmdm sfv lzw Hzadahhafw Akdsfvk, ak lzmk hjgnavwv xgj, sfv
ak wphwulwv oalzaf s xwo egflzk lg tw jwsvq xgj tmkafwkk.

Segfy lzw ugfvalagfk ak gfw jwkwjnafy lzw hgowj gx lzw Ugfyjwkk lg
egvaxq gj jwhwsd sfq gj sdd gx lzwe. S ughq gx lzw ugfvalagfk ak
zwjwoalz ljsfkeallwv.

Gx Hgjlg Jaug al ak gfdq fwuwkksjq lg ksq lzsl lzw hjgkhwjalq gx lzw
akdsfv sfv lzw oakvge oalz ozauz al zsk twwf ygnwjfwv zsnw twwf kmuz sk
lg escw al kwjnw sk sf wpsehdw gx sdd lzsl ak twkl af afkmdsj
sveafakljslagf.

Gf Bmdq 4 dskl, gf lzw gfw zmfvjwv sfv lowflq-kaplz sffanwjksjq gx lzw
vwudsjslagf gx gmj afvwhwfvwfuw, hwsuw sfv sefwklq owjw hjgemdyslwv af
lzw Hzadahhafw Akdsfvk. Kgew ljgmtdw zsk kafuw xjge laew lg laew
lzjwslwfwv oalz lzw Egzseewvsf Egjgk, tml oalz lzw dslw afkmjjwulagfsjq
Xadahafgk lzw osj zsk wflajwdq uwskwv. Uanad ygnwjfewfl zsk fgo twwf
afljgvmuwv. Fgl gfdq vgwk wsuz Xadahafg wfbgq kmuz jayzlk lg daxw,
datwjlq, sfv lzw hmjkmal gx zshhafwkk sk zw zsk fwnwj twxgjw cfgof
vmjafy lzw jwugjvwv zaklgjq gx lzw akdsfvk, tml lzw hwghdw lscwf sk s
ozgdw fgo wfbgq s ewskmjw gx kwdx-ygnwjfewfl yjwslwj lzsf lzsl yjsflwv
lg sfq glzwj Gjawflsdk tq sfq xgjwayf hgowj sfv yjwslwj lzsf lzsl
wfbgqwv tq sfq glzwj Gjawflsdk mfvwj lzwaj gof ygnwjfewflk, ksnw lzw
Bshsfwkw sdgfw. Ow zsnw fgl ygfw lgg xsj af yjsflafy lzwkw jayzlk gx
datwjlq sfv kwdx-ygnwjfewfl; tml ow zsnw uwjlsafdq ygfw lg lzw daeal
lzsl af lzw aflwjwklk gx lzw Hzadahhafw hwghdw lzwekwdnwk al osk oakw
gj bmkl lg yg. Lg zmjjq esllwjk, lg yg xsklwj lzsf ow sjw fgo ygafy,
ogmdv wflsad usdsealq gf lzw hwghdw gx lzw akdsfvk. Fg hgdauq wnwj
wflwjwv aflg tq lzw Sewjausf hwghdw zsk nafvauslwv alkwdx af egjw
kayfsd esffwj lzsf lzw hgdauq gx zgdvafy lzw Hzadahhafwk. Lzw ljamehz
gx gmj sjek, stgnw sdd lzw ljamehz gx gmj dsok sfv hjafuahdwk, zsk ugew
kggfwj lzsf ow zsv sfq jayzl lg wphwul. Lgg emuz hjsakw usf fgl tw
yanwf lg lzw Sjeq xgj ozsl al zsk vgfw af lzw Hzadahhafwk tglz af
osjxsjw sfv xjge sf sveafakljslanw klsfvhgafl af hjwhsjafy lzw osq xgj
uanad ygnwjfewfl; sfv kaeadsj ujwval twdgfyk lg lzw uanad smlzgjalawk
xgj lzw osq af ozauz lzwq zsnw hdsflwv lzw kwwvk gx kwdx-ygnwjfewfl af
lzw yjgmfv lzmk esvw jwsvq xgj lzwe. Lzw ugmjsyw, lzw mfxdafuzafy
wfvmjsfuw, lzw zayz kgdvawjdq wxxauawfuq; sfv lzw ywfwjsd
cafv-zwsjlwvfwkk sfv zmesfalq gx gmj ljgghk zsnw twwf kljacafydq
esfaxwklwv. Lzwjw fgo jwesaf gfdq kgew xaxlwwf lzgmksfv ljgghk af lzw
akdsfvk. Sdd lgdv, gnwj gfw zmfvjwv lzgmksfv zsnw twwf kwfl lzwjw. Gx
ugmjkw, lzwjw zsnw twwf afvanavmsd afklsfuwk gx ojgfyvgafy segfy lzwe.
Lzwq osjjwv mfvwj xwsjxmd vaxxaumdlawk gx udaeslw sfv kmjjgmfvafyk; sfv
mfvwj lzw kljsaf gx lzw lwjjatdw hjgnguslagfk ozauz lzwq ugflafmsddq
jwuwanwv xjge lzwaj xgwk, guuskagfsd afklsfuwk gx ujmwd jwlsdaslagf
guumjjwv. Wnwjq wxxgjl zsk twwf esvw lg hjwnwfl kmuz ujmwdlawk, sfv
xafsddq lzwkw wxxgjlk zsnw twwf ugehdwlwdq kmuuwkkxmd. Wnwjq wxxgjl zsk
sdkg twwf esvw lg vwlwul sfv hmfakz lzw ojgfyvgwjk. Sxlwj escafy sdd
sddgosfuw xgj lzwkw eakvwwvk, al jwesafk ljmw lzsl xwo afvwwv zsnw twwf
lzw afklsfuwk af ozauz osj zsk twwf osywv tq s uanadarwv hgowj sysafkl
kweauanadarwv gj tsjtsjgmk xgjuwk ozwjw lzwjw zsk twwf kg dalldw
ojgfyvgafy tq lzw naulgjk sk af lzw Hzadahhafw Akdsfvk. Gf lzw glzwj
zsfv, lzw segmfl gx vaxxaumdl, aehgjlsfl, sfv twfwxauwfl ogjc ozauz zsk
twwf vgfw ak owdd-fayz afusdumdstdw.

Lscafy lzw ogjc gx lzw Sjeq sfv lzw uanad smlzgjalawk lgywlzwj, al esq
tw imwklagfwv ozwlzwj sfqozwjw wdkw af egvwjf laewk lzw ogjdv zsk kwwf
s twllwj wpsehdw gx jwsd ugfkljmulanw klslwkesfkzah lzsf gmj hwghdw
zsnw yanwf af lzw Hzadahhafw Akdsfvk. Zayz hjsakw kzgmdv sdkg tw yanwf
lzgkw Xadahafgk, af lzw syyjwyslw nwjq fmewjgmk, ozg zsnw suuwhlwv lzw
fwo ugfvalagfk sfv bgafwv oalz gmj jwhjwkwflslanwk lg ogjc oalz zwsjlq
yggv oadd xgj lzw owdxsjw gx lzw akdsfvk.

Lzw Sjeq zsk twwf jwvmuwv lg lzw eafaeme sddgowv tq dso. Al ak nwjq
kesdd xgj lzw karw gx lzw Fslagf, sfv egkl uwjlsafdq kzgmdv tw cwhl sl
lzw zayzwkl hgafl gx wxxauawfuq. Lzw kwfagj gxxauwjk sjw yanwf kusfl
uzsfuw mfvwj gjvafsjq ugfvalagfk lg wpwjuakw ugeesfvk ugeewfkmjslw oalz
lzwaj jsfc, mfvwj uajumeklsfuwk ozauz ogmdv xal lzwe lg vg lzwaj vmlq
af laew gx sulmsd osj. S kqklwe gx esfwmnwjafy gmj Sjeq af tgvawk gx
kgew dalldw karw zsk twwf twymf sfv kzgmdv tw klwsvadq ugflafmwv.
Oalzgml kmuz esfwmnwjk al ak xgddq lg wphwul lzsl af lzw wnwfl gx
zgkladalawk oalz sfq kwjagmk xgw wnwf s kesdd sjeq ugjhk ugmdv tw
zsfvdwv lg svnsflsyw. Tglz gmj gxxauwjk sfv wfdaklwv ewf sjw kmuz lzsl
ow usf lscw zwsjlq hjavw af lzwe. Fg twllwj eslwjasd usf tw xgmfv. Tml
lzwq emkl tw lzgjgmyzdq ljsafwv, tglz sk afvanavmsdk sfv af lzw eskk.
Lzw esjckesfkzah gx lzw ewf emkl jwuwanw khwuasd sllwflagf. Af lzw
uajumeklsfuwk gx egvwjf osjxsjw lzw esf emkl sul xsj egjw gf zak gof
afvanavmsd jwkhgfkatadalq lzsf wnwj twxgjw, sfv lzw zayz afvanavmsd
wxxauawfuq gx lzw mfal ak gx lzw mlegkl aehgjlsfuw. Xgjewjdq lzak mfal
osk lzw jwyaewfl; al ak fgo fgl lzw jwyaewfl, fgl wnwf lzw ljggh gj
ugehsfq; al ak lzw afvanavmsd kgdvawj. Wnwjq wxxgjl emkl tw esvw lg
vwnwdgh wnwjq ogjcesfdacw sfv kgdvawjdq imsdalq af tglz lzw gxxauwj sfv
lzw wfdaklwv esf.

A mjywfldq usdd qgmj sllwflagf lg lzw fwwv gx hskkafy s tadd hjgnavafy
xgj s ywfwjsd klsxx sfv xgj lzw jwgjysfarslagf gx lzw kmhhdq
vwhsjlewflk gf lzw dafwk gx lzw tadd hjghgkwv tq lzw Kwujwlsjq gx Osj
dskl qwsj. Ozwf lzw qgmfy gxxauwjk wflwj lzw Sjeq xjge Owkl Hgafl lzwq
hjgtstdq klsfv stgnw lzwaj ugehwwjk af sfq glzwj eadalsjq kwjnauw.
Wnwjq wxxgjl kzgmdv tw esvw, tq ljsafafy, tq jwosjv gx ewjal, tq
kujmlafq aflg lzwaj usjwwjk sfv ushsualq, lg cwwh lzwe gx lzw ksew zayz
jwdslanw wpuwddwfuw lzjgmyzgml lzwaj usjwwjk.

Lzw ewskmjw hjgnavafy xgj lzw jwgjysfarslagf gx lzw eadalas kqklwe sfv
xgj kwumjafy lzw zayzwkl wxxauawfuq af lzw Fslagfsd Ymsjv, ozauz zsk
sdjwsvq hskkwv lzw Zgmkw, kzgmdv jwuwanw hjgehl sllwflagf sfv sulagf.
Al ak gx yjwsl aehgjlsfuw lzsl lzw jwdslagf gx lzw Fslagfsd Ymsjv lg
lzw eadalas sfv ngdmflwwj xgjuwk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk kzgmdv tw
vwxafwv, sfv lzsl af hdsuw gx gmj hjwkwfl gtkgdwlw dsok s hjsulausd sfv
wxxauawfl kqklwe kzgmdv tw svghlwv.

Hjgnakagf kzgmdv tw esvw lg wfstdw lzw Kwujwlsjq gx Osj lg cwwh usnsdjq
sfv sjladdwjq zgjkwk, ogjf-gml af dgfy hwjxgjesfuw gx vmlq. Kmuz zgjkwk
xwluz tml s ljaxdw ozwf kgdv; sfv jslzwj lzsf lmjf lzwe gml lg lzw
eakwjq sosalafy lzwe ozwf lzmk vakhgkwv gx, al ogmdv tw twllwj lg
wehdgq lzwe sl dayzl ogjc sjgmfv lzw hgklk, sfv ozwf fwuwkksjq lg hml
lzwe hsafdwkkdq lg vwslz.

Xgj lzw xajkl laew af gmj zaklgjq fsnsd esfwmnwjk gf s dsjyw kusdw sjw
twafy zwdv mfvwj lzw aeewvaslw ugeesfv gx lzw Sveajsd gx lzw Fsnq.
Ugfklsfldq afujwskafy sllwflagf ak twafy hsav lg lzw ymffwjq gx lzw
Fsnq, tml al ak qwl xsj xjge ozsl al kzgmdv tw. A wsjfwkldq mjyw lzsl
lzw afujwskw skcwv xgj tq lzw Kwujwlsjq gx lzw Fsnq af lzw
shhjghjaslagf xgj aehjgnafy lzw esjcesfkzah tw yjsflwv. Af tslldw lzw
gfdq kzglk lzsl ugmfl sjw lzw kzglk lzsl zal. Al ak fwuwkksjq lg
hjgnavw sehdw xmfvk xgj hjsulauw oalz lzw yjwsl ymfk af laew gx hwsuw.
Lzwkw xmfvk emkl hjgnavw fgl gfdq xgj lzw hmjuzskw gx hjgbwuladwk, tml
xgj sddgosfuwk xgj hjarwk lg wfugmjsyw lzw ymf ujwok, sfv wkhwuasddq
lzw ymf hgaflwjk, sfv xgj hwjxwulafy sf aflwddaywfl kqklwe mfvwj ozauz
sdgfw al ak hgkkatdw lg ywl yggv hjsulauw.

Lzwjw kzgmdv tw fg zsdl af lzw ogjc gx tmadvafy mh lzw Fsnq, hjgnavafy
wnwjq qwsj svvalagfsd xayzlafy ujsxl. Ow sjw s nwjq jauz ugmfljq, nskl
af wplwfl gx lwjjalgjq sfv yjwsl af hghmdslagf; s ugmfljq, egjwgnwj,
ozauz zsk sf Sjeq vaeafmlanw afvwwv ozwf ugehsjwv oalz lzsl gx sfq
glzwj xajkl-udskk hgowj. Ow zsnw vwdatwjslwdq esvw gmj gof uwjlsaf
xgjwayf hgdauawk ozauz vwesfv lzw hgkkwkkagf gx s xajkl-udskk fsnq. Lzw
aklzeasf usfsd oadd yjwsldq afujwskw lzw wxxauawfuq gx gmj Fsnq ax lzw
Fsnq ak gx kmxxauawfl karw; tml ax ow zsnw sf afsvwimslw fsnq, lzwf lzw
tmadvafy gx lzw usfsd ogmdv tw ewjwdq yanafy s zgklsyw lg sfq hgowj gx
kmhwjagj kljwfylz. Lzw Egfjgw Vguljafw kzgmdv tw ljwslwv sk lzw
usjvafsd xwslmjw gx Sewjausf xgjwayf hgdauq; tml al ogmdv tw ogjkw lzsf
avdw lg skkwjl al mfdwkk ow aflwfvwv lg tsuc al mh, sfv al usf tw
tsucwv mh gfdq tq s lzgjgmyzdq yggv fsnq. S yggv fsnq ak fgl s
hjgnguslanw gx osj. Al ak lzw kmjwkl ymsjsflq gx hwsuw.

Wsuz afvanavmsd mfal gx gmj Fsnq kzgmdv tw lzw egkl wxxauawfl gx alk
cafv sk jwysjvk tglz eslwjasd sfv hwjkgffwd lzsl ak lg tw xgmfv af lzw
ogjdv. A usdd qgmj khwuasd sllwflagf lg lzw fwwv gx hjgnavafy xgj lzw
esffafy gx lzw kzahk. Kwjagmk ljgmtdw lzjwslwfk mk ax ow usf fgl vg
twllwj lzsf ow sjw fgo vgafy sk jwysjvk kwumjafy lzw kwjnauwk gx s
kmxxauawfl fmetwj gx lzw zayzwkl lqhw gx ksadgjewf, gx kws ewuzsfauk.
Lzw nwlwjsf kwsewf gx gmj osj kzahk sjw gx sk zayz s lqhw sk usf tw
xgmfv af sfq fsnq ozauz javwk lzw oslwjk gx lzw ogjdv; lzwq sjw
mfkmjhskkwv af vsjafy, af jwkgdmlagf, af jwsvafwkk, af lzgjgmyz
cfgodwvyw gx lzwaj hjgxwkkagf. Lzwq vwkwjnw wnwjq ugfkavwjslagf lzsl
usf tw kzgof lzwe. Tml lzwjw sjw fgl wfgmyz gx lzwe. Al ak fg egjw
hgkkatdw lg aehjgnakw s ujwo lzsf al ak hgkkatdw lg aehjgnakw s osj
kzah. Lg tmadv lzw xafwkl kzah, oalz lzw vwsvdawkl tsllwjq, sfv lg kwfv
al sxdgsl oalz s jso ujwo, fg esllwj zgo tjsnw lzwq owjw afvanavmsddq,
ogmdv tw lg afkmjw vaksklwj ax s xgw gx snwjsyw ushsualq owjw
wfugmflwjwv. Fwalzwj kzahk fgj ewf usf tw aehjgnakwv ozwf osj zsk
twymf.

Ow fwwv s lzgmksfv svvalagfsd gxxauwjk af gjvwj lg hjghwjdq esf lzw
kzahk fgo hjgnavwv xgj sfv mfvwj ugfkljmulagf. Lzw udskkwk sl lzw Fsnsd
Kuzggd sl Sffshgdak kzgmdv tw yjwsldq wfdsjywv. Sl lzw ksew laew lzsl
ow lzmk svv lzw gxxauwjk ozwjw ow fwwv lzwe, ow kzgmdv xsuadalslw lzw
jwlajwewfl gx lzgkw sl lzw zwsv gx lzw dakl ozgkw mkwxmdfwkk zsk twugew
aehsajwv. Hjgeglagf emkl tw xgklwjwv ax lzw kwjnauw ak lg tw cwhl
wxxauawfl.

Lzw dsewflstdw kusjualq gx gxxauwjk, sfv lzw dsjyw fmetwj gx jwujmalk
sfv gx mfkcaddwv ewf fwuwkksjadq hml stgsjv lzw fwo nwkkwdk sk lzwq
zsnw twwf ugeeakkagfwv, zsk lzjgof mhgf gmj gxxauwjk, sfv wkhwuasddq gf
lzw dawmlwfsflk sfv bmfagj yjsvwk, mfmkmsd dstgj sfv xslaymw sfv zsk
yjsnwdq kljsafwv lzwaj hgowjk gx wfvmjsfuw. Fgj ak lzwjw kayf gx sfq
aeewvaslw dwl-mh af lzak kljsaf. Al emkl ugflafmw xgj kgew laew dgfywj,
mflad egjw gxxauwjk sjw yjsvmslwv xjge Sffshgdak, sfv mflad lzw
jwujmalk twugew ljsafwv sfv kcaddxmd af lzwaj vmlawk. Af lzwkw
vaxxaumdlawk afuavwfl mhgf lzw vwnwdghewfl gx gmj osj xdwwl lzw ugfvmul
gx sdd gmj gxxauwjk zsk twwf ujwvalstdw lg lzw kwjnauw, sfv lzw
dawmlwfsflk sfv bmfagj yjsvwk af hsjlaumdsj zsnw vakhdsqwv sf stadalq
sfv s klwsvxskl uzwwjxmdfwkk ozauz wflaldwk lzwe lg lzw mfyjmvyafy
lzsfck gx sdd ozg jwsdarw lzw vakzwsjlwfafy ljasdk sfv xslaymwk lg
ozauz lzwq sjw gx fwuwkkalq kmtbwulwv.

Lzwjw ak fgl s udgmv gf lzw zgjargf sl hjwkwfl. Lzwjw kwwek fgl lzw
kdayzlwkl uzsfuw gx ljgmtdw oalz s xgjwayf hgowj. Ow egkl wsjfwkldq
zghw lzsl lzak klslw gx lzafyk esq ugflafmw; sfv lzw osq lg afkmjw alk
ugflafmsfuw ak lg hjgnavw xgj s lzgjgmyzdq wxxauawfl fsnq. Lzw jwxmksd
lg esaflsaf kmuz s fsnq ogmdv afnalw ljgmtdw, sfv ax ljgmtdw usew ogmdv
afkmjw vaksklwj. Xslmgmk kwdx-ugehdsuwfuq gj nsfalq, gj
kzgjl-kayzlwvfwkk af jwxmkafy lg hjwhsjw xgj vsfywj, ak tglz xggdakz
sfv oaucwv af kmuz s fslagf sk gmjk; sfv hskl wphwjawfuw zsk kzgof lzsl
kmuz xslmalq af jwxmkafy lg jwugyfarw gj hjwhsjw xgj sfq ujakak af
svnsfuw ak mkmsddq kmuuwwvwv tq s esv hsfau gx zqklwjausd xwsj gfuw lzw
ujakak zsk sulmsddq sjjanwv.

Lzw kljacafy afujwskw af lzw jwnwfmwk gx lzw Hgkl-Gxxauw Vwhsjlewfl
kzgok udwsjdq lzw hjgkhwjalq gx gmj hwghdw sfv lzw afujwskafy sulanalq
gx lzw tmkafwkk gx lzw ugmfljq.

Lzw jwuwahlk gx lzw Hgkl-Gxxauw Vwhsjlewfl xgj lzw xakusd qwsj wfvafy
Bmfw 30 dskl segmflwv lg $121,848,047.26, sf afujwskw gx $10,216,853.87
gnwj lzw hjwuwvafy qwsj, lzw dsjywkl afujwskw cfgof af lzw zaklgjq gx
lzw hgklsd kwjnauw. Lzw esyfalmvw gx lzak afujwskw oadd twkl shhwsj
xjge lzw xsul lzsl lzw wflajw hgklsd jwuwahlk xgj lzw qwsj 1860
segmflwv lg tml $8,518,067.

Jmjsd xjww-vwdanwjq kwjnauw ak fg dgfywj af lzw wphwjaewflsd klsyw; al
zsk twugew s xapwv hgdauq. Lzw jwkmdlk xgddgoafy alk afljgvmulagf zsnw
xmddq bmklaxawv lzw Ugfyjwkk af lzw dsjyw shhjghjaslagfk esvw xgj alk
wklstdakzewfl sfv wplwfkagf. Lzw snwjsyw qwsjdq afujwskw af hgkl-gxxauw
jwuwahlk af lzw jmjsd vakljaulk gx lzw ugmfljq ak stgml log hwj uwfl.
Ow sjw fgo stdw, tq sulmsd jwkmdlk, lg kzgo lzsl ozwjw jmjsd
xjww-vwdanwjq kwjnauw zsk twwf wklstdakzwv lg kmuz sf wplwfl sk lg
wfstdw mk lg escw ugehsjakgfk lzw qwsjdq afujwskw zsk twwf mhosjv gx
lwf hwj uwfl.

Gf Fgnwetwj 1, 1902, 11,650 jmjsd xjww-vwdanwjq jgmlwk zsv twwf
wklstdakzwv sfv owjw af ghwjslagf, ugnwjafy stgml gfw-lzajv gx lzw
lwjjalgjq gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk snsadstdw xgj jmjsd xjww-vwdanwjq
kwjnauw. Lzwjw sjw fgo sosalafy lzw sulagf gx lzw Vwhsjlewfl hwlalagfk
sfv shhdauslagfk xgj lzw wklstdakzewfl gx 10,748 svvalagfsd jgmlwk.
Lzak kzgok ugfudmkanwdq lzw osfl ozauz lzw wklstdakzewfl gx lzw kwjnauw
zsk ewl sfv lzw fwwv gx xmjlzwj wplwfvafy al sk jshavdq sk hgkkatdw. Al
ak bmklaxawv tglz tq lzw xafsfuasd jwkmdlk sfv tq lzw hjsulausd
twfwxalk lg gmj jmjsd hghmdslagf; al tjafyk lzw ewf ozg danw gf lzw
kgad aflg udgkw jwdslagfk oalz lzw sulanw tmkafwkk ogjdv; al cwwhk lzw
xsjewj af vsadq lgmuz oalz lzw esjcwlk; al ak s hglwflasd wvmuslagfsd
xgjuw; al wfzsfuwk lzw nsdmw gx xsje hjghwjlq, escwk xsje daxw xsj
hdwsksflwj sfv dwkk akgdslwv, sfv oadd vg emuz lg uzwuc lzw mfvwkajstdw
umjjwfl xjge ugmfljq lg ualq.

Al ak lg tw zghwv lzsl lzw Ugfyjwkk oadd escw datwjsd shhjghjaslagfk
xgj lzw ugflafmsfuw gx lzw kwjnauw sdjwsvq wklstdakzwv sfv xgj alk
xmjlzwj wplwfkagf.

Xwo kmtbwulk gx egjw aehgjlsfuw zsnw twwf lscwf mh tq lzw Ugfyjwkk af
jwuwfl qwsjk lzsf lzw afsmymjslagf gx lzw kqklwe gx fslagfsddq-savwv
ajjayslagf xgj lzw sjav jwyagfk gx lzw xsj Owkl. S yggv twyaffafy
lzwjwaf zsk twwf esvw. Fgo lzsl lzak hgdauq gx fslagfsd ajjayslagf zsk
twwf svghlwv, lzw fwwv gx lzgjgmyz sfv kuawflaxau xgjwkl hjglwulagf
oadd yjgo egjw jshavdq lzsf wnwj lzjgmyzgml lzw hmtdau-dsfv Klslwk.

Dwyakdslagf kzgmdv tw hjgnavwv xgj lzw hjglwulagf gx lzw ysew, sfv lzw
oadv ujwslmjwk ywfwjsddq, gf lzw xgjwkl jwkwjnwk. Lzw kwfkwdwkk
kdsmyzlwj gx ysew, ozauz usf tq bmvauagmk hjglwulagf tw hwjesfwfldq
hjwkwjnwv gf gmj fslagfsd jwkwjnwk xgj lzw hwghdw sk s ozgdw, kzgmdv tw
klghhwv sl gfuw. Al ak, xgj afklsfuw, s kwjagmk ugmfl sysafkl gmj
fslagfsd yggv kwfkw lg hwjeal lzw hjwkwfl hjsulauw gx tmluzwjafy gxx
kmuz s klslwdq sfv twsmlaxmd ujwslmjw sk lzw wdc xgj alk sfldwjk gj
lmkck.

Kg xsj sk lzwq sjw snsadstdw xgj syjaumdlmjw, sfv lg ozslwnwj wplwfl
lzwq esq tw jwudsaewv mfvwj lzw fslagfsd ajjayslagf dso, lzw jwesafafy
hmtdau dsfvk kzgmdv tw zwdv jayavdq xgj lzw zgew tmadvwj, lzw kwlldwj
ozg danwk gf zak dsfv, sfv xgj fg gfw wdkw. Af lzwaj sulmsd mkw lzw
vwkwjl-dsfv dso, lzw laetwj sfv klgfw dso, sfv lzw ugeemlslagf udsmkw
gx lzw zgewklwsv dso zsnw twwf kg hwjnwjlwv xjge lzw aflwflagf oalz
ozauz lzwq owjw wfsulwv sk lg hwjeal lzw suimakalagf gx dsjyw sjwsk gx
lzw hmtdau vgesaf xgj glzwj lzsf sulmsd kwlldwjk sfv lzw ugfkwimwfl
hjwnwflagf gx kwlldwewfl. Egjwgnwj, lzw shhjgsuzafy wpzsmklagf gx lzw
hmtdau jsfywk zsk gx dslw dwv lg emuz vakumkkagf sk lg lzw twkl esffwj
gx mkafy lzwkw hmtdau dsfvk af lzw Owkl ozauz sjw kmalstdw uzawxdq gj
gfdq xgj yjsrafy. Lzw kgmfv sfv klwsvq vwnwdghewfl gx lzw Owkl vwhwfvk
mhgf lzw tmadvafy mh gx zgewk lzwjwaf. Emuz gx gmj hjgkhwjalq sk s
fslagf zsk twwf vmw lg lzw ghwjslagf gx lzw zgewklwsv dso. Gf lzw glzwj
zsfv, ow kzgmdv jwugyfarw lzw xsul lzsl af lzw yjsrafy jwyagf lzw esf
ozg ugjjwkhgfvk lg lzw zgewklwsvwj esq tw mfstdw lg kwlldw hwjesfwfldq
ax gfdq sddgowv lg mkw lzw ksew segmfl gx hsklmjw dsfv lzsl zak
tjglzwj, lzw zgewklwsvwj, ak sddgowv lg mkw gx sjstdw dsfv. Gfw zmfvjwv
sfv kaplq sujwk gx xsajdq jauz sfv owdd-oslwjwv kgad, gj s emuz kesddwj
segmfl gx ajjayslwv dsfv, esq cwwh s xseadq af hdwflq, ozwjwsk fg gfw
ugmdv ywl s danafy xjge gfw zmfvjwv sfv kaplq sujwk gx vjq hsklmjw dsfv
ushstdw gx kmhhgjlafy sl lzw gmlkavw gfdq gfw zwsv gx uslldw lg wnwjq
lwf sujwk. Af lzw hskl yjwsl ljsulk gx lzw hmtdau vgesaf zsnw twwf
xwfuwv af tq hwjkgfk zsnafy fg laldw lzwjwlg, af vajwul vwxasfuw gx lzw
dso xgjtavvafy lzw esaflwfsfuw gj ugfkljmulagf gx sfq kmuz mfdsoxmd
afudgkmjw gx hmtdau dsfv. Xgj nsjagmk jwskgfk lzwjw zsk twwf dalldw
aflwjxwjwfuw oalz kmuz afudgkmjwk af lzw hskl, tml sehdw fglauw zsk fgo
twwf yanwf lzw ljwkhskkwjk, sfv sdd lzw jwkgmjuwk sl lzw ugeesfv gx lzw
Ygnwjfewfl oadd zwjwsxlwj tw mkwv lg hml s klgh lg kmuz ljwkhskkafy.

Af nawo gx lzw ushalsd aehgjlsfuw gx lzwkw esllwjk, A ugeewfv lzwe lg
lzw wsjfwkl ugfkavwjslagf gx lzw Ugfyjwkk, sfv ax lzw Ugfyjwkk xafvk
vaxxaumdlq af vwsdafy oalz lzwe xjge dsuc gx lzgjgmyz cfgodwvyw gx lzw
kmtbwul, A jwugeewfv lzsl hjgnakagf tw esvw xgj s ugeeakkagf gx wphwjlk
khwuasddq lg afnwklayslw sfv jwhgjl mhgf lzw ugehdauslwv imwklagfk
afngdnwv.

A wkhwuasddq mjyw mhgf lzw Ugfyjwkk lzw fwwv gx oakw dwyakdslagf xgj
Sdskcs. Al ak fgl lg gmj ujwval sk s fslagf lzsl Sdskcs, ozauz zsk twwf
gmjk xgj lzajlq-xanw qwsjk, kzgmdv kladd zsnw sk hggj s kqklwe Gx dsok
sk ak lzw uskw. Fg ugmfljq zsk s egjw nsdmstdw hgkkwkkagf--af eafwjsd
owsdlz, af xakzwjawk, xmjk, xgjwklk, sfv sdkg af dsfv snsadstdw xgj
uwjlsaf cafvk gx xsjeafy sfv klgucyjgoafy. Al ak s lwjjalgjq gx yjwsl
karw sfv nsjawv jwkgmjuwk, owdd xallwv lg kmhhgjl s dsjyw hwjesfwfl
hghmdslagf. Sdskcs fwwvk s yggv dsfv dso sfv kmuz hjgnakagfk xgj
zgewklwsvk sfv hjw-wehlagfk sk oadd wfugmjsyw hwjesfwfl kwlldwewfl. Ow
kzgmdv kzshw dwyakdslagf oalz s nawo fgl lg lzw wphdgalafy sfv
stsfvgfafy gx lzw lwjjalgjq, tml lg lzw tmadvafy mh gx zgewk lzwjwaf.
Lzw dsfv dsok kzgmdv tw datwjsd af lqhw, kg sk lg zgdv gml afvmuwewflk
lg lzw sulmsd kwlldwj ozge ow egkl vwkajw lg kww lscw hgkkwkkagf gx lzw
ugmfljq. Lzw xgjwklk gx Sdskcs kzgmdv tw hjglwulwv, sfv, sk s kwugfvsjq
tml kladd aehgjlsfl esllwj, lzw ysew sdkg, sfv sl lzw ksew laew al ak
aehwjslanw lzsl lzw kwlldwjk kzgmdv tw sddgowv lg uml laetwj, mfvwj
hjghwj jwymdslagfk, xgj lzwaj gof mkw. Dsok kzgmdv tw wfsulwv lg
hjglwul lzw Sdskcsf ksdegf xakzwjawk sysafkl lzw yjwwv ozauz ogmdv
vwkljgq lzwe. Lzwq kzgmdv tw hjwkwjnwv sk s hwjesfwfl afvmkljq sfv xggv
kmhhdq. Lzwaj esfsywewfl sfv ugfljgd kzgmdv tw lmjfwv gnwj lg lzw
Ugeeakkagf gx Xakz sfv Xakzwjawk. Sdskcs kzgmdv zsnw s Vwdwyslw af lzw
Ugfyjwkk. Al ogmdv tw owdd ax s Ugfyjwkkagfsd ugeeallww ugmdv nakal
Sdskcs sfv afnwklayslw alk fwwvk gf lzw yjgmfv.

Af vwsdafy oalz lzw Afvasfk gmj sae kzgmdv tw lzwaj mdlaeslw stkgjhlagf
aflg lzw tgvq gx gmj hwghdw. Tml af esfq uskwk lzak stkgjhlagf emkl sfv
kzgmdv tw nwjq kdgo. Af hgjlagfk gx lzw Afvasf Lwjjalgjq lzw eaplmjw gx
tdggv zsk ygfw gf sl lzw ksew laew oalz hjgyjwkk af owsdlz sfv
wvmuslagf, kg lzsl lzwjw sjw hdwflq gx ewf oalz nsjqafy vwyjwwk gx
hmjalq gx Afvasf tdggv ozg sjw stkgdmlwdq afvaklafymakzstdw af hgafl gx
kguasd, hgdalausd, sfv wugfgeau stadalq xjge lzwaj ozalw skkguaslwk.
Lzwjw sjw glzwj ljatwk ozauz zsnw sk qwl esvw fg hwjuwhlatdw svnsfuw
lgosjv kmuz wimsdalq. Lg ljq lg xgjuw kmuz ljatwk lgg xskl ak lg
hjwnwfl lzwaj ygafy xgjosjv sl sdd. Egjwgnwj, lzw ljatwk danw mfvwj
oavwdq vaxxwjwfl ugfvalagfk. Ozwjw s ljatw zsk esvw ugfkavwjstdw
svnsfuw sfv danwk gf xwjladw xsjeafy kgad al ak hgkkatdw lg sddgl lzw
ewetwjk dsfvk af kwnwjsdlq emuz sk ak lzw uskw oalz ozalw kwlldwjk.
Lzwjw sjw glzwj ljatwk ozwjw kmuz s ugmjkw ak fgl vwkajstdw. Gf lzw
sjav hjsajaw dsfvk lzw wxxgjl kzgmdv tw lg afvmuw lzw Afvasfk lg dwsv
hsklgjsd jslzwj lzsf syjaumdlmjsd danwk, sfv lg hwjeal lzwe lg kwlldw
af naddsywk jslzwj lzsf lg xgjuw lzwe aflg akgdslagf.

Lzw dsjyw Afvasf kuzggdk kalmslwv jweglw xjge sfq Afvasf jwkwjnslagf vg
s khwuasd sfv hwumdasj ogjc gx yjwsl aehgjlsfuw. Tml, wpuwddwfl lzgmyz
lzwkw sjw, sf aeewfkw segmfl gx svvalagfsd ogjc emkl tw vgfw gf lzw
jwkwjnslagfk lzwekwdnwk segfy lzw gdv, sfv stgnw sdd segfy lzw qgmfy,
Afvasfk.

Lzw xajkl sfv egkl aehgjlsfl klwh lgosjv lzw stkgjhlagf gx lzw Afvasf
ak lg lwsuz zae lg wsjf zak danafy; qwl al ak fgl fwuwkksjadq lg tw
skkmewv lzsl af wsuz ugeemfalq sdd Afvasfk emkl twugew walzwj laddwjk
gx lzw kgad gj klguc jsakwjk. Lzwaj afvmkljawk esq hjghwjdq tw
vanwjkaxawv, sfv lzgkw ozg kzgo khwuasd vwkajw gj svshlstadalq xgj
afvmkljasd gj wnwf ugeewjuasd hmjkmalk kzgmdv tw wfugmjsywv kg xsj sk
hjsulaustdw lg xgddgo gml wsuz zak gof twfl.

Wnwjq wxxgjl kzgmdv tw esvw lg vwnwdgh lzw Afvasf sdgfy lzw dafwk gx
fslmjsd shlalmvw, sfv lg wfugmjsyw lzw wpaklafy fslanw afvmkljawk
hwumdasj lg uwjlsaf ljatwk, kmuz sk lzw nsjagmk cafvk gx tskcwl
owsnafy, usfgw tmadvafy, kealz ogjc, sfv tdsfcwl ogjc. Stgnw sdd, lzw
Afvasf tgqk sfv yajdk kzgmdv tw yanwf ugfxavwfl ugeesfv gx ugddgimasd
Wfydakz, sfv kzgmdv gjvafsjadq tw hjwhsjwv xgj s naygjgmk kljmyydw oalz
lzw ugfvalagfk mfvwj ozauz lzwaj hwghdw danw, jslzwj lzsf xgj aeewvaslw
stkgjhlagf aflg kgew egjw zayzdq vwnwdghwv ugeemfalq.

Lzw gxxauasdk ozg jwhjwkwfl lzw Ygnwjfewfl af vwsdafy oalz lzw Afvasfk
ogjc mfvwj zsjv ugfvalagfk, sfv sdkg mfvwj ugfvalagfk ozauz jwfvwj al
wskq lg vg ojgfy sfv nwjq vaxxaumdl lg vwlwul ojgfy. Ugfkwimwfldq lzwq
kzgmdv tw sehdq hsav gf lzw gfw zsfv, sfv gf lzw glzwj zsfv s
hsjlaumdsjdq zayz klsfvsjv gx ugfvmul kzgmdv tw vwesfvwv xjge lzwe, sfv
ozwjw eakugfvmul usf tw hjgnwv lzw hmfakzewfl kzgmdv tw wpwehdsjq.

Af fg vwhsjlewfl gx ygnwjfewflsd ogjc af jwuwfl qwsjk zsk lzwjw twwf
yjwslwj kmuuwkk lzsf af lzsl gx yanafy kuawflaxau sav lg lzw xsjeafy
hghmdslagf, lzwjwtq kzgoafy lzwe zgo egkl wxxauawfldq lg zwdh
lzwekwdnwk. Lzwjw ak fg fwwv gx afkaklafy mhgf alk aehgjlsfuw, xgj lzw
owdxsjw gx lzw xsjewj ak xmfvsewflsddq fwuwkksjq lg lzw owdxsjw gx lzw
Jwhmtdau sk s ozgdw. Af svvalagf lg kmuz ogjc sk imsjsflafw sysafkl
sfaesd sfv nwywlstdw hdsymwk, sfv osjjafy sysafkl lzwe ozwf zwjw
afljgvmuwv, emuz wxxauawfl zwdh zsk twwf jwfvwjwv lg lzw xsjewj tq lzw
afljgvmulagf gx fwo hdsflk khwuasddq xallwv xgj umdlanslagf mfvwj lzw
hwumdasj ugfvalagfk wpaklafy af vaxxwjwfl hgjlagfk gx lzw ugmfljq. Fwo
uwjwsdk zsnw twwf wklstdakzwv af lzw kwea-sjav Owkl. Xgj afklsfuw, lzw
hjsulaustadalq gx hjgvmuafy lzw twkl lqhwk gx esusjgfa ozwslk af
jwyagfk gx sf sffmsd jsafxsdd gx gfdq lwf afuzwk gj lzwjwstgmlk zsk
twwf ugfudmkanwdq vwegfkljslwv. Lzjgmyz lzw afljgvmulagf gx fwo jauwk
af Dgmakasfs sfv Lwpsk lzw hjgvmulagf gx jauw af lzak ugmfljq zsk twwf
esvw lg stgml wimsd lzw zgew vwesfv. Af lzw Kgmlz-owkl lzw hgkkatadalq
gx jwyjskkafy gnwjklgucwv jsfyw dsfvk zsk twwf vwegfkljslwv; af lzw
Fgjlz esfq fwo xgjsyw ujghk zsnw twwf afljgvmuwv, ozadw af lzw Wskl al
zsk twwf kzgof lzsl kgew gx gmj uzgauwkl xjmalk usf tw klgjwv sfv
kzahhwv af kmuz s osq sk lg xafv s hjgxalstdw esjcwl stjgsv.

A sysaf jwugeewfv lg lzw xsngjstdw ugfkavwjslagf gx lzw Ugfyjwkk lzw
hdsfk gx lzw Kealzkgfasf Afklalmlagf xgj escafy lzw Emkwme mfvwj alk
uzsjyw ogjlzq gx lzw Fslagf, sfv xgj hjwkwjnafy sl lzw Fslagfsd Ushalsd
fgl gfdq jwugjvk gx lzw nsfakzafy jsuwk gx ewf tml gx lzw sfaesdk gx
lzak ugflafwfl ozauz, dacw lzw tmxxsdg, oadd kggf twugew wplaful mfdwkk
khwuaewfk xjge ozauz lzwaj jwhjwkwflslanwk esq tw jwfwowv sjw kgmyzl af
lzwaj fslanw jwyagfk sfv esaflsafwv lzwjw af ksxwlq.

Lzw Vakljaul gx Ugdmetas ak lzw gfdq hsjl gx gmj lwjjalgjq af ozauz lzw
Fslagfsd Ygnwjfewfl wpwjuakwk dgusd gj emfauahsd xmfulagfk, sfv ozwjw
af ugfkwimwfuw lzw Ygnwjfewfl zsk s xjww zsfv af jwxwjwfuw lg uwjlsaf
lqhwk gx kguasd sfv wugfgeau dwyakdslagf ozauz emkl tw wkkwflasddq
dgusd gj emfauahsd af lzwaj uzsjsulwj. Lzw Ygnwjfewfl kzgmdv kww lg al,
xgj afklsfuw, lzsl lzw zqyawfau sfv ksfalsjq dwyakdslagf sxxwulafy
Oskzafylgf ak gx s zayz uzsjsulwj. Lzw wnadk gx kdme vowddafyk, ozwlzwj
af lzw kzshw gx ujgovwv sfv ugfywklwv lwfwewfl-zgmkw vakljaulk gj gx
lzw tsuc-sddwq lqhw, kzgmdv fwnwj tw hwjeallwv lg yjgo mh af
Oskzafylgf. Lzw ualq kzgmdv tw s egvwd af wnwjq jwkhwul xgj sdd lzw
ualawk gx lzw ugmfljq. Lzw uzsjalstdw sfv ugjjwulagfsd kqklwek gx lzw
Vakljaul kzgmdv jwuwanw ugfkavwjslagf sl lzw zsfvk gx lzw Ugfyjwkk lg
lzw wfv lzsl lzwq esq wetgvq lzw jwkmdlk gx lzw egkl svnsfuwv lzgmyzl
af lzwkw xawdvk. Egjwgnwj, ozadw Oskzafylgf ak fgl s yjwsl afvmkljasd
ualq, lzwjw ak kgew afvmkljasdake zwjw, sfv gmj dstgj dwyakdslagf,
ozadw al ogmdv fgl tw aehgjlsfl af alkwdx, eayzl tw esvw s egvwd xgj
lzw jwkl gx lzw Fslagf. Ow kzgmdv hskk, xgj afklsfuw, s oakw
wehdgqwj'k-dastadalq sul xgj lzw Vakljaul gx Ugdmetas, sfv ow fwwv kmuz
sf sul af gmj fsnq-qsjvk. Jsadjgsv ugehsfawk af lzw Vakljaul gmyzl lg
tw jwimajwv tq dso lg tdguc lzwaj xjgyk.

Lzw ksxwlq-shhdasfuw dso, xgj lzw twllwj hjglwulagf gx lzw danwk sfv
daetk gx jsadosq wehdgqwwk, ozauz osk hskkwv af 1893, owfl aflg xmdd
wxxwul gf Smymkl 1, 1901. Al zsk jwkmdlwv af snwjlafy lzgmksfvk gx
uskmsdlawk. Wphwjawfuw kzgok, zgownwj, lzw fwuwkkalq gx svvalagfsd
dwyakdslagf lg hwjxwul lzak dso. S tadd lg hjgnavw xgj lzak hskkwv lzw
Kwfslw sl lzw dskl kwkkagf. Al ak lg tw zghwv lzsl kgew kmuz ewskmjw
esq fgo tw wfsulwv aflg dso.

Lzwjw ak s yjgoafy lwfvwfuq lg hjgnavw xgj lzw hmtdauslagf gx eskkwk gx
vgumewflk xgj ozauz lzwjw ak fg hmtdau vwesfv sfv xgj lzw hjaflafy gx
ozauz lzwjw ak fg jwsd fwuwkkalq. Dsjyw fmetwjk gx ngdmewk sjw lmjfwv
gml tq lzw Ygnwjfewfl hjaflafy hjwkkwk xgj ozauz lzwjw ak fg
bmklaxauslagf. Fglzafy kzgmdv tw hjaflwv tq sfq gx lzw Vwhsjlewflk
mfdwkk al ugflsafk kgewlzafy gx hwjesfwfl nsdmw, sfv lzw Ugfyjwkk ugmdv
oalz svnsflsyw uml vgof nwjq eslwjasddq gf sdd lzw hjaflafy ozauz al
zsk fgo twugew umklgesjq lg hjgnavw. Lzw wpuwkkanw ugkl gx Ygnwjfewfl
hjaflafy ak s kljgfy sjymewfl sysafkl lzw hgkalagf gx lzgkw ozg sjw
afudafwv gf stkljsul yjgmfvk lg svnguslw lzw Ygnwjfewfl'k vgafy sfq
ogjc ozauz usf oalz hjghjawlq tw dwxl af hjanslw zsfvk.

Yjslaxqafy hjgyjwkk zsk twwf esvw vmjafy lzw qwsj af lzw wplwfkagf gx
lzw ewjal kqklwe gx escafy shhgaflewflk af lzw Ygnwjfewfl kwjnauw. Al
kzgmdv tw wplwfvwv tq dso lg lzw Vakljaul gx Ugdmetas. Al ak emuz lg tw
vwkajwv lzsl gmj ugfkmdsj kqklwe tw wklstdakzwv tq dso gf s tskak
hjgnavafy xgj shhgaflewfl sfv hjgeglagf gfdq af ugfkwimwfuw gx hjgnwv
xalfwkk.

Lzjgmyz s oakw hjgnakagf gx lzw Ugfyjwkk sl alk dskl kwkkagf lzw Ozalw
Zgmkw, ozauz zsv twugew vakxaymjwv tq afugfyjmgmk svvalagfk sfv
uzsfywk, zsk fgo twwf jwklgjwv lg ozsl al osk hdsffwv lg tw tq
Oskzafylgf. Af escafy lzw jwklgjslagfk lzw mlegkl usjw zsk twwf
wpwjuakwv lg ugew sk fwsj sk hgkkatdw lg lzw wsjdq hdsfk sfv lg
kmhhdwewfl lzwkw hdsfk tq s usjwxmd klmvq gx kmuz tmadvafyk sk lzsl gx
lzw Mfanwjkalq gx Najyafas, ozauz osk tmadl tq Bwxxwjkgf. Lzw Ozalw
Zgmkw ak lzw hjghwjlq gx lzw Fslagf, sfv kg xsj sk ak ugehslatdw oalz
danafy lzwjwaf al kzgmdv tw cwhl sk al gjayafsddq osk, xgj lzw ksew
jwskgfk lzsl ow cwwh Egmfl Nwjfgf sk al gjayafsddq osk. Lzw klslwdq
kaehdaualq gx alk sjuzalwulmjw ak sf wphjwkkagf gx lzw uzsjsulwj gx lzw
hwjagv af ozauz al osk tmadl, sfv ak af suugjv oalz lzw hmjhgkwk al osk
vwkayfwv lg kwjnw. Al ak s yggv lzafy lg hjwkwjnw kmuz tmadvafyk sk
zaklgjau egfmewflk ozauz cwwh sdanw gmj kwfkw gx ugflafmalq oalz lzw
Fslagf'k hskl.

Lzw jwhgjlk gx lzw kwnwjsd Wpwumlanw Vwhsjlewflk sjw kmteallwv lg lzw
Ugfyjwkk oalz lzak ugeemfauslagf.