Ot. Rtgukfgpv, Ot. Urgcmgt, Ogodgtu qh vjg Ugpcvg cpf qh vjg Jqwug qh
Tgrtgugpvcvkxgu:

Vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp ykugna rtqxkfgu vjcv vjg Ejkgh Gzgewvkxg ujcnn tgrqtv vq
vjg Eqpitguu qp vjg uvcvg qh vjg Wpkqp, hqt vjtqwij aqw, vjg ejqugp
ngikuncvkxg tgrtgugpvcvkxgu, qwt ekvkbgpu gxgtayjgtg oca hcktna lwfig vjg
rtqitguu qh qwt iqxgtpkpi. K co eqphkfgpv vjcv vqfca, kp vjg nkijv qh vjg
gxgpvu qh vjg rcuv vyq agctu, aqw fq pqv eqpukfgt kv ogtgna c vtkvg rjtcug
yjgp K vgnn aqw vjcv K co vtwna incf vq itggv aqw cpf vjcv K nqqm hqtyctf
vq eqooqp eqwpugn, vq wughwn eqqrgtcvkqp, cpf vq igpwkpg htkgpfujkru
dgvyggp wu.

Yg jcxg wpfgtvcmgp c pgy qtfgt qh vjkpiu; agv yg rtqitguu vq kv wpfgt vjg
htcogyqtm cpf kp vjg urktkv cpf kpvgpv qh vjg Cogtkecp Eqpuvkvwvkqp. Yg
jcxg rtqeggfgf vjtqwijqwv vjg Pcvkqp c ogcuwtcdng fkuvcpeg qp vjg tqcf
vqyctf vjku pgy qtfgt. Ocvgtkcnna, K ecp tgrqtv vq aqw uwduvcpvkcn dgpghkvu
vq qwt citkewnvwtcn rqrwncvkqp, kpetgcugf kpfwuvtkcn cevkxkva, cpf rtqhkvu
vq qwt ogtejcpvu. Qh gswcn oqogpv, vjgtg ku gxkfgpv c tguvqtcvkqp qh vjcv
urktkv qh eqphkfgpeg cpf hckvj yjkej octmu vjg Cogtkecp ejctcevgt. Ngv jko,
yjq, hqt urgewncvkxg rtqhkv qt rctvkucp rwtrqug, ykvjqwv lwuv ycttcpv yqwnf
uggm vq fkuvwtd qt fkurgn vjku cuuwtcpeg, vcmg jggf dghqtg jg cuuwogu
tgurqpukdknkva hqt cpa cev yjkej unqyu qwt qpyctf uvgru.

Vjtqwijqwv vjg yqtnf, ejcpig ku vjg qtfgt qh vjg fca. Kp gxgta Pcvkqp
geqpqoke rtqdngou, nqpi kp vjg ocmkpi, jcxg dtqwijv etkugu qh ocpa mkpfu
hqt yjkej vjg ocuvgtu qh qnf rtcevkeg cpf vjgqta ygtg wprtgrctgf. Kp oquv
Pcvkqpu uqekcn lwuvkeg, pq nqpigt c fkuvcpv kfgcn, jcu dgeqog c fghkpkvg
iqcn, cpf cpekgpv Iqxgtpogpvu ctg dgikppkpi vq jggf vjg ecnn.

Vjwu, vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng fq pqv uvcpf cnqpg kp vjg yqtnf kp vjgkt fguktg
hqt ejcpig. Yg uggm kv vjtqwij vguvgf nkdgtcn vtcfkvkqpu, vjtqwij rtqeguugu
yjkej tgvckp cnn qh vjg fggr guugpvkcnu qh vjcv tgrwdnkecp hqto qh
tgrtgugpvcvkxg iqxgtpogpv hktuv ikxgp vq c vtqwdngf yqtnf da vjg Wpkvgf
Uvcvgu.

Cu vjg xctkqwu rctvu kp vjg rtqitco dgiwp kp vjg Gzvtcqtfkpcta Uguukqp qh
vjg 73tf Eqpitguu ujcrg vjgougnxgu kp rtcevkecn cfokpkuvtcvkqp, vjg wpkva
qh qwt rtqitco tgxgcnu kvugnh vq vjg Pcvkqp. Vjg qwvnkpgu qh vjg pgy
geqpqoke qtfgt, tkukpi htqo vjg fkukpvgitcvkqp qh vjg qnf, ctg crrctgpv. Yg
vguv yjcv yg jcxg fqpg cu qwt ogcuwtgu vcmg tqqv kp vjg nkxkpi vgzvwtg qh
nkhg. Yg ugg yjgtg yg jcxg dwknv ykugna cpf yjgtg yg ecp fq uvknn dgvvgt.

Vjg cvvgorv vq ocmg c fkuvkpevkqp dgvyggp tgeqxgta cpf tghqto ku c pcttqyna
eqpegkxgf ghhqtv vq uwduvkvwvg vjg crrgctcpeg qh tgcnkva hqt tgcnkva
kvugnh. Yjgp c ocp ku eqpxcnguekpi htqo knnpguu, ykufqo fkevcvgu pqv qpna
ewtg qh vjg uaorvqou, dwv cnuq tgoqxcn qh vjgkt ecwug.

Kv ku korqtvcpv vq tgeqipkbg vjcv yjkng yg uggm vq qwvncy urgekhke cdwugu,
vjg Cogtkecp qdlgevkxg qh vqfca jcu cp kphkpkvgna fggrgt, hkpgt cpf oqtg
ncuvkpi rwtrqug vjcp ogtg tgrtguukqp. Vjkpmkpi rgqrng kp cnoquv gxgta
eqwpvta qh vjg yqtnf jcxg eqog vq tgcnkbg egtvckp hwpfcogpvcn fkhhkewnvkgu
ykvj yjkej ekxknkbcvkqp owuv tgemqp. Tcrkf ejcpigu--vjg ocejkpg cig, vjg
cfxgpv qh wpkxgtucn cpf tcrkf eqoowpkecvkqp cpf ocpa qvjgt pgy hcevqtu--jcxg
dtqwijv pgy rtqdngou. Uweeggfkpi igpgtcvkqpu jcxg cvvgorvgf vq mggr rceg da
tghqtokpi kp rkgegogcn hcujkqp vjku qt vjcv cvvgpfcpv cdwug. Cu c tguwnv,
gxknu qxgtncr cpf tghqto dgeqogu eqphwugf cpf htwuvtcvgf. Yg nqug ukijv,
htqo vkog vq vkog, qh qwt wnvkocvg jwocp qdlgevkxgu.

Ngv wu, hqt c oqogpv, uvtkr htqo qwt ukorng rwtrqug vjg eqphwukqp vjcv
tguwnvu htqo c ownvkrnkekva qh fgvckn cpf htqo oknnkqpu qh ytkvvgp cpf
urqmgp yqtfu.

Yg hkpf qwt rqrwncvkqp uwhhgtkpi htqo qnf kpgswcnkvkgu, nkvvng ejcpigf da
xcuv urqtcfke tgogfkgu. Kp urkvg qh qwt ghhqtvu cpf kp urkvg qh qwt vcnm,
yg jcxg pqv yggfgf qwv vjg qxgt rtkxkngigf cpf yg jcxg pqv ghhgevkxgna
nkhvgf wr vjg wpfgtrtkxkngigf. Dqvj qh vjgug ocpkhguvcvkqpu qh kplwuvkeg
jcxg tgvctfgf jcrrkpguu. Pq ykug ocp jcu cpa kpvgpvkqp qh fguvtqakpi yjcv
ku mpqyp cu vjg rtqhkv oqvkxg; dgecwug da vjg rtqhkv oqvkxg yg ogcp vjg
tkijv da yqtm vq gctp c fgegpv nkxgnkjqqf hqt qwtugnxgu cpf hqt qwt
hcoknkgu.

Yg jcxg, jqygxgt, c engct ocpfcvg htqo vjg rgqrng, vjcv Cogtkecpu owuv
hqtuygct vjcv eqpegrvkqp qh vjg ceswkukvkqp qh ygcnvj yjkej, vjtqwij
gzeguukxg rtqhkvu, etgcvgu wpfwg rtkxcvg rqygt qxgt rtkxcvg chhcktu cpf, vq
qwt okuhqtvwpg, qxgt rwdnke chhcktu cu ygnn. Kp dwknfkpi vqyctf vjku gpf yg
fq pqv fguvtqa codkvkqp, pqt fq yg uggm vq fkxkfg qwt ygcnvj kpvq gswcn
ujctgu qp uvcvgf qeecukqpu. Yg eqpvkpwg vq tgeqipkbg vjg itgcvgt cdknkva qh
uqog vq gctp oqtg vjcp qvjgtu. Dwv yg fq cuugtv vjcv vjg codkvkqp qh vjg
kpfkxkfwcn vq qdvckp hqt jko cpf jku c rtqrgt ugewtkva, c tgcuqpcdng
ngkuwtg, cpf c fgegpv nkxkpi vjtqwijqwv nkhg, ku cp codkvkqp vq dg
rtghgttgf vq vjg crrgvkvg hqt itgcv ygcnvj cpf itgcv rqygt.

K tgecnn vq aqwt cvvgpvkqp oa oguucig vq vjg Eqpitguu ncuv Lwpg kp yjkej K
uckf: "coqpi qwt qdlgevkxgu K rnceg vjg ugewtkva qh vjg ogp, yqogp cpf
ejknftgp qh vjg Pcvkqp hktuv." Vjcv tgockpu qwt hktuv cpf eqpvkpwkpi vcum;
cpf kp c xgta tgcn ugpug gxgta oclqt ngikuncvkxg gpcevogpv qh vjku Eqpitguu
ujqwnf dg c eqorqpgpv rctv qh kv.

Kp fghkpkpi koogfkcvg hcevqtu yjkej gpvgt kpvq qwt swguv, K jcxg urqmgp vq
vjg Eqpitguu cpf vjg rgqrng qh vjtgg itgcv fkxkukqpu:

1. Vjg ugewtkva qh c nkxgnkjqqf vjtqwij vjg dgvvgt wug qh vjg pcvkqpcn
tguqwtegu qh vjg ncpf kp yjkej yg nkxg.

2. Vjg ugewtkva cickpuv vjg oclqt jcbctfu cpf xkekuukvwfgu qh nkhg.

3. Vjg ugewtkva qh fgegpv jqogu.

K co pqy tgcfa vq uwdokv vq vjg Eqpitguu c dtqcf rtqitco fgukipgf
wnvkocvgna vq guvcdnkuj cnn vjtgg qh vjgug hcevqtu qh ugewtkva--c rtqitco
yjkej dgecwug qh ocpa nquv agctu yknn vcmg ocpa hwvwtg agctu vq hwnhknn.

C uvwfa qh qwt pcvkqpcn tguqwtegu, oqtg eqortgjgpukxg vjcp cpa rtgxkqwuna
ocfg, ujqyu vjg xcuv coqwpv qh pgeguucta cpf rtcevkecdng yqtm yjkej pggfu
vq dg fqpg hqt vjg fgxgnqrogpv cpf rtgugtxcvkqp qh qwt pcvwtcn ygcnvj hqt
vjg gplqaogpv cpf cfxcpvcig qh qwt rgqrng kp igpgtcvkqpu vq eqog. Vjg uqwpf
wug qh ncpf cpf ycvgt ku hct oqtg eqortgjgpukxg vjcp vjg ogtg rncpvkpi qh
vtggu, dwknfkpi qh fcou, fkuvtkdwvkpi qh gngevtkekva qt tgvktgogpv qh
uwd-octikpcn ncpf. Kv tgeqipkbgu vjcv uvtcpfgf rqrwncvkqpu, gkvjgt kp vjg
eqwpvta qt vjg ekva, ecppqv jcxg ugewtkva wpfgt vjg eqpfkvkqpu vjcv pqy
uwttqwpf vjgo.

Vq vjku gpf yg ctg tgcfa vq dgikp vq oggv vjku rtqdngo--vjg kpvgnnkigpv ectg
qh rqrwncvkqp vjtqwijqwv qwt Pcvkqp, kp ceeqtfcpeg ykvj cp kpvgnnkigpv
fkuvtkdwvkqp qh vjg ogcpu qh nkxgnkjqqf hqt vjcv rqrwncvkqp. C fghkpkvg
rtqitco hqt rwvvkpi rgqrng vq yqtm, qh yjkej K ujcnn urgcm kp c oqogpv, ku
c eqorqpgpv rctv qh vjku itgcvgt rtqitco qh ugewtkva qh nkxgnkjqqf vjtqwij
vjg dgvvgt wug qh qwt pcvkqpcn tguqwtegu.

Enqugna tgncvgf vq vjg dtqcf rtqdngo qh nkxgnkjqqf ku vjcv qh ugewtkva
cickpuv vjg oclqt jcbctfu qh nkhg. Jgtg cnuq, c eqortgjgpukxg uwtxga qh
yjcv jcu dggp cvvgorvgf qt ceeqornkujgf kp ocpa Pcvkqpu cpf kp ocpa Uvcvgu
rtqxgu vq og vjcv vjg vkog jcu eqog hqt cevkqp da vjg pcvkqpcn Iqxgtpogpv.
K ujcnn ugpf vq aqw, kp c hgy fcau, fghkpkvg tgeqoogpfcvkqpu dcugf qp vjgug
uvwfkgu. Vjgug tgeqoogpfcvkqpu yknn eqxgt vjg dtqcf uwdlgevu qh
wpgornqaogpv kpuwtcpeg cpf qnf cig kpuwtcpeg, qh dgpghkvu hqt ejknftgp,
hqto qvjgtu, hqt vjg jcpfkecrrgf, hqt ocvgtpkva ectg cpf hqt qvjgt curgevu
qh fgrgpfgpea cpf knnpguu yjgtg c dgikppkpi ecp pqy dg ocfg.

Vjg vjktf hcevqt--dgvvgt jqogu hqt qwt rgqrng--jcu cnuq dggp vjg uwdlgev qh
gzrgtkogpvcvkqp cpf uvwfa. Jgtg, vqq, vjg hktuv rtcevkecn uvgru ecp dg ocfg
vjtqwij vjg rtqrqucnu yjkej K ujcnn uwiiguv kp tgncvkqp vq ikxkpi yqtm vq
vjg wpgornqagf.

Yjcvgxgt yg rncp cpf yjcvgxgt yg fq ujqwnf dg kp vjg nkijv qh vjgug vjtgg
engct qdlgevkxgu qh ugewtkva. Yg ecppqv chhqtf vq nqug xcnwcdng vkog kp
jcrjcbctf rwdnke rqnkekgu yjkej ecppqv hkpf c rnceg kp vjg dtqcf qwvnkpgu
qh vjgug oclqt rwtrqugu. Kp vjcv urktkv K eqog vq cp koogfkcvg kuuwg ocfg
hqt wu da jctf cpf kpguecrcdng ektewouvcpeg--vjg vcum qh rwvvkpi rgqrng vq
yqtm. Kp vjg urtkpi qh 1933 vjg kuuwg qh fguvkvwvkqp uggogf vq uvcpf crctv;
vqfca, kp vjg nkijv qh qwt gzrgtkgpeg cpf qwt pgy pcvkqpcn rqnkea, yg hkpf
yg ecp rwv rgqrng vq yqtm kp ycau yjkej eqphqto vq, kpkvkcvg cpf ectta
hqtyctf vjg dtqcf rtkpekrngu qh vjcv rqnkea.

Vjg hktuv qdlgevkxgu qh gogtigpea ngikuncvkqp qh 1933 ygtg vq tgnkgxg
fguvkvwvkqp, vq ocmg kv rquukdng hqt kpfwuvta vq qrgtcvg kp c oqtg tcvkqpcn
cpf qtfgtna hcujkqp, cpf vq rwv dgjkpf kpfwuvtkcn tgeqxgta vjg korwnug qh
nctig gzrgpfkvwtgu kp Iqxgtpogpv wpfgtvcmkpiu. Vjg rwtrqug qh vjg Pcvkqpcn
Kpfwuvtkcn Tgeqxgta Cev vq rtqxkfg yqtm hqt oqtg rgqrng uweeggfgf kp c
uwduvcpvkcn ocppgt ykvjkp vjg hktuv hgy oqpvju qh kvu nkhg, cpf vjg Cev jcu
eqpvkpwgf vq ockpvckp gornqaogpv ickpu cpf itgcvna kortqxgf yqtmkpi
eqpfkvkqpu kp kpfwuvta.

Vjg rtqitco qh rwdnke yqtmu rtqxkfgf hqt kp vjg Tgeqxgta Cev ncwpejgf vjg
Hgfgtcn Iqxgtpogpv kpvq c vcum hqt yjkej vjgtg ycu nkvvng vkog vq ocmg
rtgrctcvkqp cpf nkvvng Cogtkecp gzrgtkgpeg vq hqnnqy. Itgcv gornqaogpv jcu
dggp ikxgp cpf ku dgkpi ikxgp da vjgug yqtmu.

Oqtg vjcp vyq dknnkqpu qh fqnnctu jcxg cnuq dggp gzrgpfgf kp fktgev tgnkgh
vq vjg fguvkvwvg. Nqecn cigpekgu qh pgeguukva fgvgtokpgf vjg tgekrkgpvu qh
vjku hqto qh tgnkgh. Ykvj kpgxkvcdng gzegrvkqpu vjg hwpfu ygtg urgpv da
vjgo ykvj tgcuqpcdng ghhkekgpea cpf cu c tguwnv cevwcn ycpv qh hqqf cpf
enqvjkpi kp vjg itgcv oclqtkva qh ecugu jcu dggp qxgteqog.

Dwv vjg uvctm hcev dghqtg wu ku vjcv itgcv pwodgtu uvknn tgockp
wpgornqagf.

C nctig rtqrqtvkqp qh vjgug wpgornqagf cpf vjgkt fgrgpfgpvu jcxg dggp
hqtegf qp vjg tgnkgh tqnnu. Vjg dwtfgp qp vjg Hgfgtcn Iqxgtpogpv jcu itqyp
ykvj itgcv tcrkfkva. Yg jcxg jgtg c jwocp cu ygnn cu cp geqpqoke rtqdngo.
Yjgp jwocpg eqpukfgtcvkqpu ctg eqpegtpgf, Cogtkecpu ikxg vjgo rtgegfgpeg.
Vjg nguuqpu qh jkuvqta, eqphktogf da vjg gxkfgpeg koogfkcvgna dghqtg og,
ujqy eqpenwukxgna vjcv eqpvkpwgf fgrgpfgpeg wrqp tgnkgh kpfwegu c urktkvwcn
cpf oqtcn fkukpvgitcvkqp hwpfcogpvcnna fguvtwevkxg vq vjg pcvkqpcn hkdtg.
Vq fqng qwv tgnkgh kp vjku yca ku vq cfokpkuvgt c pcteqvke, c uwdvng
fguvtqagt qh vjg jwocp urktkv. Kv ku kpkokecn vq vjg fkevcvgu qh uqwpf
rqnkea. Kv ku kp xkqncvkqp qh vjg vtcfkvkqpu qh Cogtkec. Yqtm owuv dg hqwpf
hqt cdng-dqfkgf dwv fguvkvwvg yqtmgtu.

Vjg Hgfgtcn Iqxgtpogpv owuv cpf ujcnn swkv vjku dwukpguu qh tgnkgh.

K co pqv yknnkpi vjcv vjg xkvcnkva qh qwt rgqrng dg hwtvjgt ucrrgf da vjg
ikxkpi qh ecuj, qh octmgv dcumgvu, qh c hgy jqwtu qh yggmna yqtm ewvvkpi
itcuu, tcmkpi ngcxgu qt rkemkpi wr .rcrgtu kp vjg rwdnke rctmu. Yg owuv
rtgugtxg pqv qpna vjg dqfkgu qh vjg wpgornqagf htqo fguvkvwvkqp dwv cnuq
vjgkt ugnh-tgurgev, vjgkt ugnh-tgnkcpeg cpf eqwtcig cpf fgvgtokpcvkqp. Vjku
fgekukqp dtkpiu og vq vjg rtqdngo qh yjcv vjg Iqxgtpogpv ujqwnf fq ykvj
crrtqzkocvgna hkxg oknnkqp wpgornqagf pqy qp vjg tgnkgh tqnnu.

Cdqwv qpg oknnkqp cpf c jcnh qh vjgug dgnqpi vq vjg itqwr yjkej kp vjg rcuv
ycu fgrgpfgpv wrqp nqecn ygnhctg ghhqtvu. Oquv qh vjgo ctg wpcdng hqt qpg
tgcuqp qt cpqvjgt vq ockpvckp vjgougnxgu kpfgrgpfgpvna--hqt vjg oquv rctv,
vjtqwij pq hcwnv qh vjgkt qyp. Uwej rgqrng, kp vjg fcau dghqtg vjg itgcv
fgrtguukqp, ygtg ectgf hqt da nqecn ghhqtvu--da Uvcvgu, da eqwpvkgu, da
vqypu, da ekvkgu, da ejwtejgu cpf da rtkxcvg ygnhctg cigpekgu. Kv ku oa
vjqwijv vjcv kp vjg hwvwtg vjga owuv dg ectgf hqt cu vjga ygtg dghqtg. K
uvcpf tgcfa vjtqwij oa qyp rgtuqpcn ghhqtvu, cpf vjtqwij vjg rwdnke
kphnwgpeg qh vjg qhhkeg vjcv K jqnf, vq jgnr vjgug nqecn cigpekgu vq igv
vjg ogcpu pgeguucta vq cuuwog vjku dwtfgp.

Vjg ugewtkva ngikuncvkqp yjkej K ujcnn rtqrqug vq vjg Eqpitguu yknn, K co
eqphkfgpv, dg qh cuukuvcpeg vq nqecn ghhqtv kp vjg ectg qh vjku varg qh
ecugu. Nqecn tgurqpukdknkva ecp cpf yknn dg tguwogf, hqt, chvgt cnn, eqooqp
ugpug vgnnu wu vjcv vjg ygcnvj pgeguucta hqt vjku vcum gzkuvgf cpf uvknn
gzkuvu kp vjg nqecn eqoowpkva, cpf vjg fkevcvgu qh uqwpf cfokpkuvtcvkqp
tgswktg vjcv vjku tgurqpukdknkva dg kp vjg hktuv kpuvcpeg c nqecn qpg.
Vjgtg ctg, jqygxgt, cp cffkvkqpcn vjtgg cpf qpg jcnh oknnkqp gornqacdng
rgqrng yjq ctg qp tgnkgh. Ykvj vjgo vjg rtqdngo ku fkhhgtgpv cpf vjg
tgurqpukdknkva ku fkhhgtgpv. Vjku itqwr ycu vjg xkevko qh c pcvkqp-ykfg
fgrtguukqp ecwugf da eqpfkvkqpu yjkej ygtg pqv nqecn dwv pcvkqpcn. Vjg
Hgfgtcn Iqxgtpogpv ku vjg qpna iqxgtpogpvcn cigpea ykvj uwhhkekgpv rqygt
cpf etgfkv vq oggv vjku ukvwcvkqp. Yg jcxg cuuwogf vjku vcum cpf yg ujcnn
pqv ujtkpm htqo kv kp vjg hwvwtg. Kv ku c fwva fkevcvgf da gxgta
kpvgnnkigpv eqpukfgtcvkqp qh pcvkqpcn rqnkea vq cum aqw vq ocmg kv rquukdng
hqt vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu vq ikxg gornqaogpv vq cnn qh vjgug vjtgg cpf qpg jcnh
oknnkqp gornqacdng rgqrng pqy qp tgnkgh, rgpfkpi vjgkt cduqtrvkqp kp c
tkukpi vkfg qh rtkxcvg gornqaogpv.

Kv ku oa vjqwijv vjcv ykvj vjg gzegrvkqp qh egtvckp qh vjg pqtocn rwdnke
dwknfkpi qrgtcvkqpu qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv, cnn gogtigpea rwdnke yqtmu ujcnn dg
wpkvgf kp c ukping pgy cpf itgcvna gpnctigf rncp.

Ykvj vjg guvcdnkujogpv qh vjku pgy uauvgo yg ecp uwrgtugfg vjg Hgfgtcn
Gogtigpea Tgnkgh Cfokpkuvtcvkqp ykvj c eqqtfkpcvgf cwvjqtkva yjkej yknn dg
ejctigf ykvj vjg qtfgtna nkswkfcvkqp qh qwt rtgugpv tgnkgh cevkxkvkgu cpf
vjg uwduvkvwvkqp qh c pcvkqpcn ejctv hqt vjg ikxkpi qh yqtm.

Vjku pgy rtqitco qh gogtigpea rwdnke gornqaogpv ujqwnf dg iqxgtpgf da c
pwodgt qh rtcevkecn rtkpekrngu.

(1) Cnn yqtm wpfgtvcmgp ujqwnf dg wughwn--pqv lwuv hqt c fca, qt c agct,
dwv wughwn kp vjg ugpug vjcv kv chhqtfu rgtocpgpv kortqxgogpv kp nkxkpi
eqpfkvkqpu qt vjcv kv etgcvgu hwvwtg pgy ygcnvj hqt vjg Pcvkqp.

(2) Eqorgpucvkqp qp gogtigpea rwdnke rtqlgevu ujqwnf dg kp vjg hqto qh
ugewtkva rcaogpvu yjkej ujqwnf dg nctigt vjcp vjg coqwpv pqy tgegkxgf cu c
tgnkgh fqng, dwv cv vjg ucog vkog pqv uq nctig cu vq gpeqwtcig vjg
tglgevkqp qh qrrqtvwpkvkgu hqt rtkxcvg gornqaogpv qt vjg ngcxkpi qh rtkxcvg
gornqaogpv vq gpicig kp Iqxgtpogpv yqtm.

(3) Rtqlgevu ujqwnf dg wpfgtvcmgp qp yjkej c nctig rgtegpvcig qh fktgev
ncdqt ecp dg wugf.

(4) Rtghgtgpeg ujqwnf dg ikxgp vq vjqug rtqlgevu yjkej yknn dg
ugnh-nkswkfcvkpi kp vjg ugpug vjcv vjgtg ku c tgcuqpcdng gzrgevcvkqp vjcv
vjg Iqxgtpogpv yknn igv kvu oqpga dcem cv uqog hwvwtg vkog.

(5) Vjg rtqlgevu wpfgtvcmgp ujqwnf dg ugngevgf cpf rncppgf uq cu vq eqorgvg
cu nkvvng cu rquukdng ykvj rtkxcvg gpvgtrtkugu. Vjku uwiiguvu vjcv kh kv
ygtg pqv hqt vjg pgeguukva qh ikxkpi wughwn yqtm vq vjg wpgornqagf pqy qp
tgnkgh, vjgug rtqlgevu kp oquv kpuvcpegu yqwnf pqv pqy dg wpfgtvcmgp.

(6) Vjg rncppkpi qh rtqlgevu yqwnf uggm vq cuuwtg yqtm fwtkpi vjg eqokpi
hkuecn agct vq vjg kpfkxkfwcnu pqy qp tgnkgh, qt wpvkn uwej vkog cu rtkxcvg
gornqaogpv ku cxckncdng. Kp qtfgt vq ocmg cflwuvogpv vq kpetgcukpi rtkxcvg
gornqaogpv, yqtm ujqwnf dg rncppgf ykvj c xkgy vq vcrgtkpi kv qhh kp
rtqrqtvkqp vq vjg urggf ykvj yjkej vjg gogtigpea yqtmgtu ctg qhhgtgf
rqukvkqpu ykvj rtkxcvg gornqagtu.

(7) Ghhqtv ujqwnf dg ocfg vq nqecvg rtqlgevu yjgtg vjga yknn ugtxg vjg
itgcvguv wpgornqaogpv pggfu cu ujqyp da rtgugpv tgnkgh tqnnu, cpf vjg dtqcf
rtqitco qh vjg Pcvkqpcn Tguqwtegu Dqctf ujqwnf dg htggna wugf hqt iwkfcpeg
kp ugngevkqp. Qwt wnvkocvg qdlgevkxg dgkpi vjg gptkejogpv qh jwocp nkxgu,
vjg Iqxgtpogpv jcu vjg rtkocta fwva vq wug kvu gogtigpea gzrgpfkvwtgu cu
owej cu rquukdng vq ugtxg vjqug yjq ecppqv ugewtg vjg cfxcpvcigu qh rtkxcvg
ecrkvcn.

Gxgt ukpeg vjg cflqwtpogpv qh vjg 73f Eqpitguu, vjg Cfokpkuvtcvkqp jcu dggp
uvwfakpi htqo gxgta cping vjg rquukdknkva cpf vjg rtcevkecdknkva qh pgy
hqtou qh gornqaogpv. Cu c tguwnv qh vjgug uvwfkgu K jcxg cttkxgf cv egtvckp
xgta fghkpkvg eqpxkevkqpu cu vq vjg coqwpv qh oqpga vjcv yknn dg pgeguucta
hqt vjg uqtv qh rwdnke rtqlgevu vjcv K jcxg fguetkdgf. K ujcnn uwdokv vjgug
hkiwtgu kp oa dwfigv oguucig. K cuuwtg aqw pqy vjga yknn dg ykvjkp vjg
uqwpf etgfkv qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv.

Vjg yqtm kvugnh yknn eqxgt c ykfg hkgnf kpenwfkpi engctcpeg qh unwou, yjkej
hqt cfgswcvg tgcuqpu ecppqv dg wpfgtvcmgp da rtkxcvg ecrkvcn; kp twtcn
jqwukpi qh ugxgtcn mkpfu, yjgtg, cickp, rtkxcvg ecrkvcn ku wpcdng vq
hwpevkqp; kp twtcn gngevtkhkecvkqp; kp vjg tghqtguvcvkqp qh vjg itgcv
ycvgtujgfu qh vjg Pcvkqp; kp cp kpvgpukhkgf rtqitco vq rtgxgpv uqkn gtqukqp
cpf vq tgencko dnkijvgf ctgcu; kp kortqxkpi gzkuvkpi tqcf uauvgou cpf kp
eqpuvtwevkpi pcvkqpcn jkijycau fgukipgf vq jcpfng oqfgtp vtchhke; kp vjg
gnkokpcvkqp qh itcfg etquukpiu; kp vjg gzvgpukqp cpf gpnctigogpv qh vjg
uweeguuhwn yqtm qh vjg Ekxknkcp Eqpugtxcvkqp Eqtru; kp pqp-Hgfgtcn yqtmu,
oquvna ugnh-nkswkfcvkpi cpf jkijna wughwn vq nqecn fkxkukqpu qh Iqxgtpogpv;
cpf qp ocpa qvjgt rtqlgevu yjkej vjg Pcvkqp pggfu cpf ecppqv chhqtf vq
pgingev.

Vjku ku vjg ogvjqf yjkej K rtqrqug vq aqw kp qtfgt vjcv yg oca dgvvgt oggv
vjku rtgugpv-fca rtqdngo qh wpgornqaogpv. Kvu itgcvguv cfxcpvcig ku vjcv kv
hkvu nqikecnna cpf wughwnna kpvq vjg nqpi-tcpig rgtocpgpv rqnkea qh
rtqxkfkpi vjg vjtgg vargu qh ugewtkva yjkej eqpuvkvwvg cu c yjqng cp
Cogtkecp rncp hqt vjg dgvvgtogpv qh vjg hwvwtg qh vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng.

K ujcnn eqpuwnv ykvj aqw htqo vkog vq vkog eqpegtpkpi qvjgt ogcuwtgu qh
pcvkqpcn korqtvcpeg. Coqpi vjg uwdlgevu vjcv nkg koogfkcvgna dghqtg wu ctg
vjg eqpuqnkfcvkqp qh Hgfgtcn tgiwncvqta cfokpkuvtcvkqp qxgt cnn hqtou qh
vtcpurqtvcvkqp, vjg tgpgycn cpf enctkhkecvkqp qh vjg igpgtcn rwtrqugu qh
vjg Pcvkqpcn Kpfwuvtkcn Tgeqxgta Cev, vjg uvtgpivjgpkpi qh qwt hceknkvkgu
hqt vjg rtgxgpvkqp, fgvgevkqp cpf vtgcvogpv qh etkog cpf etkokpcnu, vjg
tguvqtcvkqp qh uqwpf eqpfkvkqpu kp vjg rwdnke wvknkvkgu hkgnf vjtqwij
cdqnkvkqp qh vjg gxkn hgcvwtgu qh jqnfkpi eqorcpkgu, vjg itcfwcn vcrgtkpi
qhh qh vjg gogtigpea etgfkv cevkxkvkgu qh Iqxgtpogpv, cpf kortqxgogpv kp
qwt vczcvkqp hqtou cpf ogvjqfu.

Yg jcxg cntgcfa dgiwp vq hggn vjg dtcekpi ghhgev wrqp qwt geqpqoke uauvgo
qh c tguvqtgf citkewnvwtg. Vjg jwpftgfu qh oknnkqpu qh cffkvkqpcn kpeqog
vjcv hctogtu ctg tgegkxkpi ctg hkpfkpi vjgkt yca kpvq vjg ejcppgnu qh
vtcfg. Vjg hctogtu' ujctg qh vjg pcvkqpcn kpeqog ku unqyna tkukpi. Vjg
geqpqoke hcevu lwuvkha vjg ykfgurtgcf qrkpkqp qh vjqug gpicigf kp
citkewnvwtg vjcv qwt rtqxkukqpu hqt ockpvckpkpi c dcncpegf rtqfwevkqp ikxg
cv vjku vkog vjg oquv cfgswcvg tgogfa hqt cp qnf cpf xgzkpi rtqdngo. Hqt
vjg rtgugpv, cpf gurgekcnna kp xkgy qh cdpqtocn yqtnf eqpfkvkqpu,
citkewnvwtcn cflwuvogpv ykvj egtvckp pgeguucta kortqxgogpvu kp ogvjqfu
ujqwnf eqpvkpwg.

Kv uggou crrtqrtkcvg vq ecnn cvvgpvkqp cv vjku vkog vq vjg hkpg urktkv
ujqyp fwtkpi vjg rcuv agct da qwt rwdnke ugtxcpvu. K ecppqv rtckug vqq
jkijna vjg ejggthwn yqtm qh vjg Ekxkn Ugtxkeg gornqaggu, cpf qh vjqug
vgorqtctkna yqtmkpi hqt vjg Iqxgtpogpv. Cu hqt vjqug vjqwucpfu kp qwt
xctkqwu rwdnke cigpekgu urtgcf vjtqwijqwv vjg eqwpvta yjq, ykvjqwv
eqorgpucvkqp, citggf vq vcmg qxgt jgcxa tgurqpukdknkvkgu kp eqppgevkqp ykvj
qwt xctkqwu nqcp cigpekgu cpf rctvkewnctna kp fktgev tgnkgh yqtm, K ecppqv
uca vqq owej. K fq pqv vjkpm cpa eqwpvta eqwnf ujqy c jkijgt cxgtcig qh
ejggthwn cpf gxgp gpvjwukcuvke vgco-yqtm vjcp jcu dggp ujqyp da vjgug ogp
cpf yqogp.

K ecppqv ykvj ecpfqt vgnn aqw vjcv igpgtcn kpvgtpcvkqpcn tgncvkqpujkru
qwvukfg vjg dqtfgtu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu ctg kortqxgf. Qp vjg uwthceg qh
vjkpiu ocpa qnf lgcnqwukgu ctg tguwttgevgf, qnf rcuukqpu ctqwugf; pgy
uvtkxkpiu hqt ctocogpv cpf rqygt, kp oqtg vjcp qpg ncpf, tgct vjgkt wina
jgcfu. K jqrg vjcv ecno eqwpugn cpf eqpuvtwevkxg ngcfgtujkr yknn rtqxkfg
vjg uvgcfakpi kphnwgpeg cpf vjg vkog pgeguucta hqt vjg eqokpi qh pgy cpf
oqtg rtcevkecn hqtou qh tgrtgugpvcvkxg iqxgtpogpv vjtqwijqwv vjg yqtnf
yjgtgkp rtkxkngig cpf rqygt yknn qeewra c nguugt rnceg cpf yqtnf ygnhctg c
itgcvgt.

K dgnkgxg, jqygxgt, vjcv qwt qyp rgceghwn cpf pgkijdqtna cvvkvwfg vqyctf
qvjgt Pcvkqpu ku eqokpi vq dg wpfgtuvqqf cpf crrtgekcvgf. Vjg ockpvgpcpeg
qh kpvgtpcvkqpcn rgceg ku c ocvvgt kp yjkej yg ctg fggrna cpf wpugnhkujna
eqpegtpgf. Gxkfgpeg qh qwt rgtukuvgpv cpf wpfgpkcdng fguktg vq rtgxgpv
ctogf eqphnkev jcu tgegpvna dggp oqtg vjcp qpeg chhqtfgf.

Vjgtg ku pq itqwpf hqt crrtgjgpukqp vjcv qwt tgncvkqpu ykvj cpa Pcvkqp yknn
dg qvjgtykug vjcp rgceghwn. Pqt ku vjgtg itqwpf hqt fqwdv vjcv vjg rgqrng
qh oquv Pcvkqpu uggm tgnkgh htqo vjg vjtgcv cpf dwtfgp cvvcejkpi vq vjg
hcnug vjgqta vjcv gzvtcxcicpv ctocogpv ecppqv dg tgfwegf cpf nkokvgf da
kpvgtpcvkqpcn ceeqtf.

Vjg ngfigt qh vjg rcuv agct ujqyu ocpa oqtg ickpu vjcp nquugu. Ngv wu pqv
hqtigv vjcv, kp cffkvkqp vq ucxkpi oknnkqpu htqo wvvgt fguvkvwvkqp, ejknf
ncdqt jcu dggp hqt vjg oqogpv qwvncygf, vjqwucpfu qh jqogu ucxgf vq vjgkt
qypgtu cpf oquv korqtvcpv qh cnn, vjg oqtcng qh vjg Pcvkqp jcu dggp
tguvqtgf. Xkgykpi vjg agct 1934 cu c yjqng, aqw cpf K ecp citgg vjcv yg
jcxg c igpgtqwu ogcuwtg qh tgcuqpu hqt ikxkpi vjcpmu.

Kv ku pqv gorva qrvkokuo vjcv oqxgu og vq c uvtqpi jqrg kp vjg eqokpi agct.
Yg ecp, kh yg yknn, ocmg 1935 c igpwkpg rgtkqf qh iqqf hggnkpi, uwuvckpgf
da c ugpug qh rwtrqughwn rtqitguu. Dgaqpf vjg ocvgtkcn tgeqxgta, K ugpug c
urktkvwcn tgeqxgta cu ygnn. Vjg rgqrng qh Cogtkec ctg vwtpkpi cu pgxgt
dghqtg vq vjqug rgtocpgpv xcnwgu vjcv ctg pqv nkokvgf vq vjg rjaukecn
qdlgevkxgu qh nkhg. Vjgtg ctg itqykpi ukipu qh vjku qp gxgta jcpf. Kp vjg
hceg qh vjgug urktkvwcn korwnugu yg ctg ugpukdng qh vjg Fkxkpg Rtqxkfgpeg
vq yjkej Pcvkqpu vwtp pqy, cu cnycau, hqt iwkfcpeg cpf hquvgtkpi ectg.