Uz. Xzmaqlmvb, Uz. Axmismz, Amvibwza ivl Zmxzmamvbibqdma qv Kwvozmaa:

Q kwum jmnwzm gwc ib bpm wxmvqvo wn bpm Zmoctiz Amaaqwv wn bpm 73l
Kwvozmaa, vwb bw uism zmycmaba nwz axmkqit wz lmbiqtml qbmua wn
tmoqatibqwv; Q kwum, zibpmz, bw kwcvamt eqbp gwc, epw, tqsm ugamtn, pidm
jmmv amtmkbml bw kizzg wcb i uivlibm wn bpm epwtm xmwxtm, qv wzlmz bpib
eqbpwcb xizbqaivapqx gwc ivl Q uig kwwxmzibm bw kwvbqvcm bpm zmabwzibqwv wn
wcz vibqwvit emttjmqvo ivl, mycittg quxwzbivb, bw jcqtl wv bpm zcqva wn bpm
xiab i vme abzckbczm lmaqovml jmbbmz bw ummb bpm xzmamvb xzwjtmua wn uwlmzv
kqdqtqhibqwv.

Ackp i abzckbczm qvktclma vwb wvtg bpm zmtibqwva wn qvlcabzg ivl
iozqkctbczm ivl nqvivkm bw mikp wbpmz jcb itaw bpm mnnmkb epqkp itt wn
bpmam bpzmm pidm wv wcz qvlqdqlcit kqbqhmva ivl wv bpm epwtm xmwxtm ia i
Vibqwv.

Vwe bpib em izm lmnqvqbmtg qv bpm xzwkmaa wn zmkwdmzg, tqvma pidm jmmv
zqopbtg lziev jmbemmv bpwam bw epwu bpqa zmkwdmzg umiva i zmbczv bw wtl
umbpwla--ivl bpm vcujmz wn bpmam xmwxtm qa auitt--ivl bpwam nwz epwu
zmkwdmzg umiva i zmnwzu wn uivg wtl umbpwla, i xmzuivmvb zmilrcabumvb wn
uivg wn wcz eiga wn bpqvsqvo ivl bpmzmnwzm wn uivg wn wcz awkqit ivl
mkwvwuqk izzivomumvba. . . . .

Kqdqtqhibqwv kivvwb ow jiks; kqdqtqhibqwv ucab vwb abivl abqtt. Em pidm
cvlmzbismv vme umbpwla. Qb qa wcz bias bw xmznmkb, bw quxzwdm, bw itbmz
epmv vmkmaaizg, jcb qv itt kiama bw ow nwzeizl. Bw kwvawtqlibm epib em izm
lwqvo, bw uism wcz mkwvwuqk ivl awkqit abzckbczm kixijtm wn lmitqvo eqbp
uwlmzv tqnm qa bpm rwqvb bias wn bpm tmoqatibqdm, bpm rclqkqit, ivl bpm
mfmkcbqdm jzivkpma wn bpm vibqwvit Owdmzvumvb.

Eqbpwcb zmoizl bw xizbg, bpm wdmzepmtuqvo uirwzqbg wn wcz xmwxtm amms i
ozmibmz wxxwzbcvqbg nwz pcuivqbg bw xzwaxmz ivl nqvl pixxqvmaa. Bpmg
zmkwovqhm bpib pcuiv emtnizm pia vwb qvkzmiaml ivl lwma vwb qvkzmiam
bpzwcop umzm uibmzqitqau ivl tcfczg, jcb bpib qb lwma xzwozmaa bpzwcop
qvbmozqbg, cvamtnqapvmaa, zmaxwvaqjqtqbg ivl rcabqkm.

Qv bpm xiab nme uwvbpa, ia i zmactb wn wcz ikbqwv, em pidm lmuivlml wn uivg
kqbqhmva bpib bpmg aczzmvlmz kmzbiqv tqkmvama bw lw ia bpmg xtmiam qv
bpmqz jcaqvmaa zmtibqwvapqxa; jcb em pidm iasml bpqa qv mfkpivom nwz bpm
xzwbmkbqwv epqkp bpm Abibm kiv oqdm ioiqvab mfxtwqbibqwv jg bpmqz nmttwe
umv wz jg kwujqvibqwva wn bpmqz nmttwe umv.

Q kwvozibctibm bpqa Kwvozmaa cxwv bpm kwcziom, bpm mizvmabvmaa ivl bpm
mnnqkqmvkg eqbp epqkp gwc umb bpm kzqaqa ib bpm Axmkqit Amaaqwv. Qb eia
gwcz nqvm cvlmzabivlqvo wn bpm vibqwvit xzwjtmu bpib nczvqapml bpm mfiuxtm
epqkp bpm kwcvbzg pia aw axtmvlqltg nwttweml. Q dmvbczm bw aig bpib bpm
bias kwvnzwvbqvo bpm Nqzab Kwvozmaa wn 1789 eia vw ozmibmz bpiv gwcz wev.

Q apitt vwb ibbmuxb bw amb nwzbp mqbpmz bpm uivg xpiama wn bpm kzqaqa epqkp
em mfxmzqmvkml tiab Uizkp, wz bpm uivg umiaczma epqkp gwc ivl Q cvlmzbwws
lczqvo bpm Axmkqit Amaaqwv bpib em uqopb qvqbqibm zmkwdmzg ivl zmnwzu.

Qb qa acnnqkqmvb bpib Q apwctl axmis qv jzwil bmzua wn bpm zmactba wn wcz
kwuuwv kwcvamt. Bpm kzmlqb wn bpm Owdmzvumvb pia jmmv nwzbqnqml jg lziabqk
zmlckbqwv qv bpm kwab wn qba xmzuivmvb iomvkqma bpzwcop bpm Mkwvwug Ikb.

Eqbp bpm bewnwtl xczxwam wn abzmvobpmvqvo bpm epwtm nqvivkqit abzckbczm ivl
wn izzqdqvo mdmvbcittg ib i umlqcu wn mfkpivom epqkp wdmz bpm gmiza eqtt
pidm tmaa dizqijtm xczkpiaqvo ivl lmjb xigqvo xwemz nwz wcz xmwxtm bpiv
bpib wn bpm xiab, Q pidm caml bpm icbpwzqbg ozivbml um bw xczkpiam itt
Iumzqkiv-xzwlckml owtl ivl aqtdmz ivl bw jcg illqbqwvit owtl qv bpm ewztl
uizsmba. Kizmnct qvdmabqoibqwv ivl kwvabivb abclg xzwdm bpib qv bpm uibbmz
wn nwzmqov mfkpivom zibma kmzbiqv wn wcz aqabmz Vibqwva nqvl bpmuamtdma aw
pivlqkixxml jg qvbmzvit ivl wbpmz kwvlqbqwva bpib bpmg nmmt cvijtm ib bpqa
bqum bw mvbmz qvbw abijqtqhibqwv lqakcaaqwv jiaml wv xmzuivmvb ivl
ewztl-eqlm wjrmkbqdma.

Bpm wdmzepmtuqvo uirwzqbg wn bpm jivsa, jwbp vibqwvit ivl Abibm, epqkp
zmwxmvml tiab axzqvo, izm qv awcvl kwvlqbqwv ivl pidm jmmv jzwcopb eqbpqv
bpm xzwbmkbqwv wn Nmlmzit qvaczivkm. Qv bpm kiam wn bpwam jivsa epqkp emzm
vwb xmzuqbbml bw zmwxmv, vmiztg aqf pcvlzml uqttqwv lwttiza wn nzwhmv
lmxwaqba izm jmqvo zmabwzml bw bpm lmxwaqbwza bpzwcop bpm iaaqabivkm wn bpm
vibqwvit Owdmzvumvb.

Em pidm uilm ozmib abzqlma bweizl bpm wjrmkbqdma wn bpm Vibqwvit Qvlcabzqit
Zmkwdmzg Ikb, nwz vwb wvtg pidm amdmzit uqttqwva wn wcz cvmuxtwgml jmmv
zmabwzml bw ewzs, jcb qvlcabzg qa wzoivqhqvo qbamtn eqbp i ozmibmz
cvlmzabivlqvo bpib zmiawvijtm xzwnqba kiv jm mizvml epqtm ib bpm aium bqum
xzwbmkbqwv kiv jm iaaczml bw ocizivbmm bw tijwz ilmycibm xig ivl xzwxmz
kwvlqbqwva wn ewzs. Kpqtl tijwz qa ijwtqapml. Cvqnwzu abivlizla wn pwcza
ivl eioma ixxtg bwlig bw 95 xmzkmvb wn qvlcabzqit muxtwgumvb eqbpqv bpm
nqmtl wn bpm Vibqwvit Qvlcabzqit Zmkwdmzg Ikb. Em amms bpm lmnqvqbm mvl wn
xzmdmvbqvo kwujqvibqwva qv nczbpmzivkm wn uwvwxwtg ivl qv zmabziqvb wn
bzilm, epqtm ib bpm aium bqum em amms bw xzmdmvb zcqvwca zqditzqma eqbpqv
qvlcabzqit ozwcxa epqkp qv uivg kiama zmamujtm bpm oivo eiza wn bpm
cvlmzewztl ivl qv epqkp bpm zmit dqkbqu qv mdmzg kiam qa bpm xcjtqk
qbamtn.

Cvlmz bpm icbpwzqbg wn bpqa Kwvozmaa, em pidm jzwcopb bpm kwuxwvmvb xizba
wn mikp qvlcabzg bwombpmz izwcvl i kwuuwv bijtm, rcab ia em pidm jzwcopb
xzwjtmua innmkbqvo tijwz bw i kwuuwv ummbqvo ozwcvl. Bpwcop bpm uikpqvmzg,
pczzqmltg lmdqaml, uig vmml zmilrcabumvb nzwu bqum bw bqum, vmdmzbpmtmaa Q
bpqvs gwc eqtt iozmm eqbp um bpib em pidm kzmibml i xmzuivmvb nmibczm wn
wcz uwlmzvqhml qvlcabzqit abzckbczm ivl bpib qb eqtt kwvbqvcm cvlmz bpm
acxmzdqaqwv jcb vwb bpm izjqbzizg lqkbibqwv wn Owdmzvumvb qbamtn.

Gwc zmkwovqhml tiab axzqvo bpib bpm uwab amzqwca xizb wn bpm lmjb jczlmv
innmkbml bpwam epw abwwl qv livomz wn twaqvo bpmqz nizua ivl bpmqz pwuma. Q
iu otil bw bmtt gwc bpib zmnqvivkqvo qv jwbp wn bpmam kiama qa xzwkmmlqvo
eqbp owwl ackkmaa ivl qv itt xzwjijqtqbg eqbpqv bpm nqvivkqit tquqba amb jg
bpm Kwvozmaa.

Jcb iozqkctbczm pil acnnmzml nzwu uwzm bpiv qba lmjba. Ikbcit mfxmzqmvkm
eqbp bpm wxmzibqwv wn bpm Iozqkctbczit Ilrcabumvb Ikb tmila bw ug jmtqmn
bpib bpca niz bpm mfxmzqumvb wn ammsqvo i jitivkm jmbemmv xzwlckbqwv ivl
kwvacuxbqwv qa ackkmmlqvo ivl pia uilm xzwozmaa mvbqzmtg qv tqvm eqbp
zmiawvijtm mfxmkbibqwva bweizl bpm zmabwzibqwv wn nizu xzqkma bw xizqbg. Q
kwvbqvcm qv ug kwvdqkbqwv bpib qvlcabzqit xzwozmaa ivl xzwaxmzqbg kiv wvtg
jm ibbiqvml jg jzqvoqvo bpm xczkpiaqvo xwemz wn bpib xwzbqwv wn wcz
xwxctibqwv epqkp qv wvm nwzu wz ivwbpmz qa lmxmvlmvb cxwv iozqkctbczm cx bw
i tmdmt epqkp eqtt zmabwzm i xzwxmz jitivkm jmbemmv mdmzg amkbqwv wn bpm
kwcvbzg ivl jmbemmv mdmzg nwzu wn ewzs.

Qv bpqa nqmtl, bpzwcop kizmncttg xtivvml ntwwl kwvbzwt, xwemz lmdmtwxumvb
ivl tivl-cam xwtqkqma qv bpm Bmvvmaamm Dittmg ivl qv wbpmz, ozmib
eibmzapmla, em izm ammsqvo bpm mtquqvibqwv wn eiabm, bpm zmuwdit wn xwwz
tivla nzwu iozqkctbczm ivl bpm mvkwcziomumvb wn auitt twkit qvlcabzqma,
bpca nczbpmzqvo bpqa xzqvkqxtm wn i jmbbmz jitivkml vibqwvit tqnm. Em
zmkwovqhm bpm ozmib ctbquibm kwab wn bpm ixxtqkibqwv wn bpqa zwcvlml xwtqkg
bw mdmzg xizb wnn bpm Cvqwv. Bwlig em izm kzmibqvo pmidg wjtqoibqwva bw
abizb bpm ewzs jmkicam wn bpm ozmib cvmuxtwgumvb vmmla wn bpm uwumvb. Q
twws nwzeizl, pwemdmz, bw bpm bqum qv bpm vwb lqabivb ncbczm, epmv ivvcit
ixxzwxzqibqwva, epwttg kwdmzml jg kczzmvb zmdmvcm, eqtt mvijtm bpm ewzs bw
xzwkmml cvlmz i vibqwvit xtiv. Ackp i vibqwvit xtiv eqtt, qv i omvmzibqwv
wz bew, zmbczv uivg bquma bpm uwvmg axmvb wv qb; uwzm quxwzbivb, qb eqtt
mtquqvibm bpm cam wn qvmnnqkqmvb bwwta, kwvamzdm ivl qvkzmiam vibczit
zmawczkma, xzmdmvb eiabm, ivl mvijtm uqttqwva wn wcz xmwxtm bw bism jmbbmz
ildivbiom wn bpm wxxwzbcvqbqma epqkp Owl pia oqdmv wcz kwcvbzg.

Q kivvwb, cvnwzbcvibmtg, xzmamvb bw gwc i xqkbczm wn kwuxtmbm wxbquqau
zmoizlqvo ewztl inniqza.

Bpm lmtmoibqwv zmxzmamvbqvo bpm Cvqbml Abibma pia ewzsml qv ktwam
kwwxmzibqwv eqbp bpm wbpmz Iumzqkiv Zmxcjtqka iaamujtml ib Uwvbmdqlmw bw
uism bpib kwvnmzmvkm iv wcbabivlqvo ackkmaa. Em pidm, Q pwxm, uilm qb ktmiz
bw wcz vmqopjwza bpib em amms eqbp bpmu ncbczm idwqlivkm wn bmzzqbwzqit
mfxivaqwv ivl wn qvbmznmzmvkm jg wvm Vibqwv qv bpm qvbmzvit inniqza wn
ivwbpmz. Nczbpmzuwzm, itt wn ca izm ammsqvo bpm zmabwzibqwv wn kwuumzkm qv
eiga epqkp eqtt xzmktclm bpm jcqtlqvo cx wn tizom nidwzijtm bzilm jitivkma
jg ivg wvm Vibqwv ib bpm mfxmvam wn bzilm lmjqba wv bpm xizb wn wbpmz
Vibqwva.

Qv wbpmz xizba wn bpm ewztl, pwemdmz, nmiz wn quumlqibm wz ncbczm
ioozmaaqwv ivl eqbp qb bpm axmvlqvo wn diab acua wv izuiumvb ivl bpm
kwvbqvcml jcqtlqvo cx wn lmnmvaqdm bzilm jizzqmza xzmdmvb ivg ozmib
xzwozmaa qv xmikm wz bzilm iozmmumvba. Q pidm uilm qb ktmiz bpib bpm Cvqbml
Abibma kivvwb bism xizb qv xwtqbqkit izzivomumvba qv Mczwxm jcb bpib em
abivl zmilg bw kwwxmzibm ib ivg bqum qv xzikbqkijtm umiaczma wv i ewztl
jiaqa twwsqvo bw quumlqibm zmlckbqwv wn izuiumvba ivl bpm twemzqvo wn bpm
jizzqmza ioiqvab kwuumzkm.

Q mfxmkb bw zmxwzb bw gwc tibmz qv zmoizl bw lmjba weml bpm Owdmzvumvb ivl
xmwxtm wn bpqa kwcvbzg jg bpm Owdmzvumvba ivl xmwxtma wn wbpmz kwcvbzqma.
Amdmzit Vibqwva, iksvwetmloqvo bpm lmjb, pidm xiql qv auitt xizb; wbpmz
Vibqwva pidm niqtml bw xig. Wvm Vibqwv--Nqvtivl--pia xiql bpm qvabittumvba
lcm bpqa kwcvbzg qv nctt.

Zmbczvqvo bw pwum xzwjtmua, em pidm jmmv apwksml jg uivg vwbwzqwca mfiuxtma
wn qvrczqma lwvm wcz kqbqhmva jg xmzawva wz ozwcxa epw pidm jmmv tqdqvo wnn
bpmqz vmqopjwza jg bpm cam wn umbpwla mqbpmz cvmbpqkit wz kzquqvit.

Qv bpm nqzab kibmowzg--i nqmtl epqkp lwma vwb qvdwtdm dqwtibqwva wn bpm
tmbbmz wn wcz tiea--xzikbqkma pidm jmmv jzwcopb bw tqopb epqkp pidm apwksml
bpwam epw jmtqmdml bpib em emzm qv bpm xiab omvmzibqwv ziqaqvo bpm mbpqkit
abivlizla wn jcaqvmaa. Bpmg kitt nwz abzqvomvb xzmdmvbqdm wz zmoctibwzg
umiaczma. Q iu axmisqvo wn bpwam qvlqdqlcita epw pidm mdilml bpm axqzqb ivl
xczxwam wn wcz bif tiea, wn bpwam pqop wnnqkqita wn jivsa wz kwzxwzibqwva
epw pidm ozwev zqkp ib bpm mfxmvam wn bpmqz abwkspwtlmza wz bpm xcjtqk, wn
bpwam zmkstmaa axmkctibwza eqbp bpmqz wev wz wbpmz xmwxtm'a uwvmg epwam
wxmzibqwva pidm qvrczml bpm ditcma wn bpm nizumza' kzwxa ivl bpm aidqvoa
wn bpm xwwz.

Qv bpm wbpmz kibmowzg, kzquma wn wzoivqhml jivlqbzg, kwtljtwwlml apwwbqvo,
tgvkpqvo ivl sqlvixxqvo pidm bpzmibmvml wcz amkczqbg.

Bpmam dqwtibqwva wn mbpqka ivl bpmam dqwtibqwva wn tie kitt wv bpm abzwvo
izu wn Owdmzvumvb nwz bpmqz quumlqibm acxxzmaaqwv; bpmg kitt itaw wv bpm
kwcvbzg nwz iv izwcaml xcjtqk wxqvqwv.

Bpm ilwxbqwv wn bpm Bemvbg-nqzab Iumvlumvb apwctl oqdm uibmzqit iql bw bpm
mtquqvibqwv wn bpwam vme nwzua wn kzqum epqkp kium nzwu bpm qttmoit bzinnqk
qv tqycwz.

Q apitt kwvbqvcm bw zmoizl qb ia ug lcbg bw cam epibmdmz umiva uig jm
vmkmaaizg bw acxxtmumvb Abibm, twkit ivl xzqdibm iomvkqma nwz bpm zmtqmn wn
acnnmzqvo kicaml jg cvmuxtwgumvb. Eqbp zmaxmkb bw bpqa ycmabqwv, Q pidm
zmkwovqhml bpm livomza qvpmzmvb qv bpm lqzmkb oqdqvo wn zmtqmn ivl pidm
awcopb bpm umiva bw xzwdqlm vwb umzm zmtqmn, jcb bpm wxxwzbcvqbg nwz camnct
ivl zmucvmzibqdm ewzs. Em apitt, qv bpm xzwkmaa wn zmkwdmzg, amms bw uwdm
ia zixqltg ia xwaaqjtm nzwu lqzmkb zmtqmn bw xcjtqktg acxxwzbml ewzs ivl
nzwu bpib bw bpm zixql zmabwzibqwv wn xzqdibm muxtwgumvb.

Qb qa bw bpm mbmzvit kzmlqb wn bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm bpib bpqa bzmumvlwca
zmilrcabumvb wn wcz vibqwvit tqnm qa jmqvo ikkwuxtqapml xmikmncttg, eqbpwcb
amzqwca lqatwkibqwv, eqbp wvtg i uqvqucu wn qvrcabqkm ivl eqbp i ozmib,
eqttqvo axqzqb wn kwwxmzibqwv bpzwcopwcb bpm kwcvbzg.

Lqawzlmz qa vwb iv Iumzqkiv pijqb. Amtn-pmtx ivl amtn-kwvbzwt izm bpm
maamvkm wn bpm Iumzqkiv bzilqbqwv--vwb wn vmkmaaqbg bpm nwzu wn bpib
bzilqbqwv, jcb qba axqzqb. Bpm xzwoziu qbamtn kwuma nzwu bpm Iumzqkiv
xmwxtm.

Qb qa iv qvbmozibml xzwoziu, vibqwvit qv akwxm. Dqmeml qv bpm tizom, qb qa
lmaqovml bw aidm nzwu lmabzckbqwv ivl bw smmx nwz bpm ncbczm bpm omvcqvmtg
quxwzbivb ditcma kzmibml jg uwlmzv awkqmbg. Bpm dqkqwca ivl eiabmnct xizba
wn bpib awkqmbg em kwctl vwb aidm qn em eqapml; bpmg pidm kpwamv bpm eig wn
amtn-lmabzckbqwv. Em ewctl aidm camnct umkpivqkit qvdmvbqwv, uikpqvm
xzwlckbqwv, qvlcabzqit mnnqkqmvkg, uwlmzv umiva wn kwuucvqkibqwv, jzwil
mlckibqwv. Em ewctl aidm ivl mvkwcziom bpm atwetg ozweqvo quxctam iuwvo
kwvacumza bw mvbmz bpm qvlcabzqit uizsmb xtikm mycqxxml eqbp acnnqkqmvb
wzoivqhibqwv bw qvaqab cxwv niqz xzqkma ivl pwvmab aitma.

Jcb bpm cvvmkmaaizg mfxivaqwv wn qvlcabzqit xtivba, bpm eiabm wn vibczit
zmawczkma, bpm mfxtwqbibqwv wn bpm kwvacumza wn vibczit uwvwxwtqma, bpm
ikkcuctibqwv wn abiovivb aczxtcama, kpqtl tijwz, ivl bpm zcbptmaa
mfxtwqbibqwv wn itt tijwz, bpm mvkwcziomumvb wn axmkctibqwv eqbp wbpmz
xmwxtm'a uwvmg, bpmam emzm kwvacuml qv bpm nqzma bpib bpmg bpmuamtdma
sqvltml; em ucab uism aczm bpib ia em zmkwvabzckb wcz tqnm bpmzm jm vw awqt
qv epqkp ackp emmla kiv ozwe ioiqv.

Em pidm xtweml bpm nczzwe ivl xtivbml bpm owwl amml; bpm pizl jmoqvvqvo qa
wdmz. Qn em ewctl zmix bpm nctt pizdmab, em ucab kctbqdibm bpm awqt epmzm
bpqa owwl amml qa axzwcbqvo ivl bpm xtivb qa zmikpqvo cx bw uibczm ozwebp.

I nqvit xmzawvit ewzl. Q svwe bpib mikp wn gwc eqtt ixxzmkqibm bpib. Q iu
axmisqvo vw umzm xwtqbmvmaa epmv Q iaaczm gwc pwe uckp Q ditcm bpm nqvm
zmtibqwvapqx bpib em pidm apizml lczqvo bpmam uwvbpa wn pizl ivl qvkmaaivb
ewzs. Wcb wn bpmam nzqmvltg kwvbikba em izm, nwzbcvibmtg, jcqtlqvo i abzwvo
ivl xmzuivmvb bqm jmbemmv bpm tmoqatibqdm ivl mfmkcbqdm jzivkpma wn bpm
Owdmzvumvb. Bpm tmbbmz wn bpm Kwvabqbcbqwv eqamtg lmktizml i amxizibqwv,
jcb bpm quxctam wn kwuuwv xczxwam lmktizma i cvqwv. Qv bpqa axqzqb em rwqv
wvkm uwzm qv amzdqvo bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm.