Qv. Tviwmhirx, Qv. Wtieoiv, Qiqfivw sj xli Gsrkviww sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw:

Jsv xli jmvwx xmqi mr syv rexmsrep lmwxsvc e Tviwmhirx hipmzivw lmw Erryep
Qiwweki xs e ria Gsrkviww amxlmr e jsvxrmklx sj xli ibtmvexmsr sj lmw xivq
sj sjjmgi. Almpi xlivi mw rs glerki mr xli Tviwmhirgc xlmw ciev, glerki
ampp sggyv mr jyxyvi cievw. Mx mw qc fipmij xlex yrhiv xlmw ria
gsrwxmxyxmsrep tvegxmgi, xli Tviwmhirx wlsyph mr izivc jsyvxl ciev, mr ws
jev ew wiiqw viewsrefpi, vizmia xli ibmwxmrk wxexi sj syv rexmsrep ejjemvw
erh syxpmri fvseh jyxyvi tvsfpiqw, piezmrk wtigmjmg vigsqqirhexmsrw jsv
jyxyvi pikmwpexmsr xs fi qehi fc xli Tviwmhirx efsyx xs fi mreykyvexih.

Ex xlmw xmqi, lsaiziv, gmvgyqwxergiw sj xli qsqirx gsqtip qi xs ewo csyv
mqqihmexi gsrwmhivexmsr sj: Jmvwx, qiewyviw ibxirhmrk xli pmji sj givxemr
eyxlsvmdexmsrw erh tsaivw almgl, yrhiv tviwirx wxexyxiw, ibtmvi amxlmr e
jia aiiow; wigsrh, er ehhmxmsr xs xli ibmwxmrk Riyxvepmxc Egx xs gsziv
wtigmjmg tsmrxw vemwih fc xli yrjsvxyrexi gmzmp wxvmji mr Wtemr; erh,
xlmvh, e hijmgmirgc ettvstvmexmsr fmpp jsv almgl M wlepp wyfqmx iwxmqexiw
xlmw aiio.

Mr Qevgl, 1933, xli tvsfpiqw almgl jegih syv Rexmsr erh almgl srpc syv
rexmsrep Kszivrqirx leh xli viwsyvgiw xs qiix aivi qsvi wivmsyw izir xler
ettievih sr xli wyvjegi.

Mx aew rsx srpc xlex xli zmwmfpi qiglermwq sj igsrsqmg pmji leh fvsoir
hsar. Qsvi hmwxyvfmrk aew xli jegx xlex psrk rikpigx sj xli riihw sj xli
yrhivtvmzmpikih leh fvsyklx xss qerc sj syv tistpi xs xli zivki sj hsyfx ew
xs xli wyggiwwjyp ehetxexmsr sj syv lmwxsvmg xvehmxmsrw xs xli gsqtpib
qshivr asvph. Mr xlex pec e gleppirki xs syv hiqsgvexmg jsvq sj Kszivrqirx
mxwipj.

Syvw aew xli xewo xs tvszi xlex hiqsgvegc gsyph fi qehi xs jyrgxmsr mr xli
asvph sj xshec ew ijjigxmzipc ew mr xli wmqtpiv asvph sj e lyrhvih cievw
eks. Syvw aew xli xewo xs hs qsvi xler xs evkyi e xlisvc. Xli xmqiw
viuymvih xli gsrjmhirx erwaiv sj tivjsvqergi xs xlswi alswi mrwxmrgxmzi
jemxl mr lyqermxc qehi xliq aerx xs fipmizi xlex mr xli psrk vyr hiqsgvegc
asyph tvszi wytivmsv xs qsvi ibxviqi jsvqw sj Kszivrqirx ew e tvsgiww sj
kixxmrk egxmsr alir egxmsr aew amwhsq, amxlsyx xli wtmvmxyep wegvmjmgiw
almgl xlswi sxliv jsvqw sj Kszivrqirx ibegx.

Xlex gleppirki ai qix. Xs qiix mx viuymvih yrtvigihirxih egxmzmxmiw yrhiv
Jihivep piehivwlmt xs irh efywiw, xs viwxsvi e pevki qiewyvi sj qexivmep
tvswtivmxc, xs kmzi ria jemxl xs qmppmsrw sj syv gmxmdirw als leh fiir
xvehmxmsreppc xeyklx xs ibtigx xlex hiqsgvegc asyph tvszmhi gsrxmrysywpc
amhiv sttsvxyrmxc erh gsrxmrysywpc kviexiv wigyvmxc mr e asvph alivi
wgmirgi aew gsrxmrysywpc qeomrk qexivmep vmgliw qsvi ezempefpi xs qer.

Mr xli qerc qixlshw sj exxego amxl almgl ai qix xliwi tvsfpiqw, csy erh M,
fc qyxyep yrhivwxerhmrk erh fc hixivqmrexmsr xs gsstivexi, liptih xs qeoi
hiqsgvegc wyggiih fc vijywmrk xs tivqmx yrrigiwwevc hmwekviiqirx xs evmwi
fixaiir xas sj syv fvergliw sj Kszivrqirx. Xlex wtmvmx sj gsstivexmsr aew
efpi xs wspzi hmjjmgypxmiw sj ibxvesvhmrevc qekrmxyhi erh veqmjmgexmsr amxl
jia mqtsvxerx ivvsvw, erh ex e gswx gliet alir qiewyvih fc xli mqqihmexi
rigiwwmxmiw erh xli izirxyep viwypxw.

M psso jsvaevh xs e gsrxmryergi sj xlex gsstivexmsr mr xli ribx jsyv cievw.
M psso jsvaevh epws xs e gsrxmryergi sj xli fewmw sj xlex gsstivexmsr--
qyxyep viwtigx jsv iegl sxliv'w tvstiv wtlivi sj jyrgxmsrmrk mr e hiqsgvegc
almgl mw asvomrk aipp, erh e gsqqsr-wirwi viepmdexmsr sj xli riih jsv tpec
mr xli nsmrxw sj xli qeglmri.

Sr xlex fewmw, mx mw amxlmr xli vmklx sj xli Gsrkviww xs hixivqmri almgl sj
xli qerc ria egxmzmxmiw wlepp fi gsrxmryih sv eferhsrih, mrgviewih sv
gyvxempih.

Sr xlex weqi fewmw, xli Tviwmhirx epsri lew xli viwtsrwmfmpmxc jsv xlimv
ehqmrmwxvexmsr. M jmrh xlex xlmw xewo sj Ibigyxmzi qerekiqirx lew vieglih
xli tsmrx alivi syv ehqmrmwxvexmzi qeglmrivc riihw gsqtvilirwmzi
szivleypmrk. M wlepp, xlivijsvi, wlsvxpc ehhviww xli Gsrkviww qsvi jyppc mr
vikevh xs qshivrmdmrk erh mqtvszmrk xli Ibigyxmzi fvergl sj xli
Kszivrqirx.

Xlex gsstivexmsr sj xli tewx jsyv cievw fixaiir xli Gsrkviww erh xli
Tviwmhirx lew emqih ex xli jypjmppqirx sj e xasjsph tspmgc: jmvwx, igsrsqmg
vigszivc xlvsykl qerc omrhw sj ewwmwxergi xs ekvmgypxyvi, mrhywxvc erh
feromrk; erh, wigsrh, hipmfivexi mqtvsziqirx mr xli tivwsrep wigyvmxc erh
sttsvxyrmxc sj xli kviex qeww sj syv tistpi.

Xli vigszivc ai wsyklx aew rsx xs fi qivipc xiqtsvevc. Mx aew xs fi e
vigszivc tvsxigxih jvsq xli geywiw sj tvizmsyw hmwewxivw. Amxl xlex emq mr
zmia--xs tvizirx e jyxyvi wmqmpev gvmwmw--csy erh M nsmrih mr e wivmiw sj
iregxqirxw--weji feromrk erh wsyrh gyvvirgc, xli kyeverxii sj fero hitswmxw,
tvsxigxmsr jsv xli mrziwxsv mr wigyvmxmiw, xli viqszep sj xli xlviex sj
ekvmgypxyvep wyvtpywiw, mrwmwxirgi sr gsppigxmzi fevkemrmrk, xli syxpeamrk
sj waiex wlstw, glmph pefsv erh yrjemv xvehi tvegxmgiw, erh xli fikmrrmrkw
sj wigyvmxc jsv xli ekih erh xli asvoiv.

Rsv aew xli vigszivc ai wsyklx qivipc e tyvtswipiww almvvmrk sj qeglmrivc.
Mx mw mqtsvxerx, sj gsyvwi, xlex izivc qer erh asqer mr xli gsyrxvc fi efpi
xs jmrh asvo, xlex izivc jegxsvc vyr, xlex fywmriww erh jevqmrk ew e alspi
ievr tvsjmxw. Fyx Kszivrqirx mr e hiqsgvexmg Rexmsr hsiw rsx ibmwx wspipc,
sv izir tvmqevmpc, jsv xlex tyvtswi.

Mx mw rsx irsykl xlex xli aliipw xyvr. Xlic qywx gevvc yw mr xli hmvigxmsr
sj e kviexiv wexmwjegxmsr mr pmji jsv xli eziveki qer. Xli hiitiv tyvtswi
sj hiqsgvexmg kszivrqirx mw xs ewwmwx ew qerc sj mxw gmxmdirw ew tswwmfpi,
iwtigmeppc xlswi als riih mx qswx, xs mqtvszi xlimv gsrhmxmsrw sj pmji, xs
vixemr epp tivwsrep pmfivxc almgl hsiw rsx ehzivwipc ejjigx xlimv
rimklfsvw, erh xs tyvwyi xli lettmriww almgl gsqiw amxl wigyvmxc erh er
sttsvxyrmxc jsv vigviexmsr erh gypxyvi.

Izir amxl syv tviwirx vigszivc ai evi jev jvsq xli ksep sj xlex hiitiv
tyvtswi. Xlivi evi jev-vieglmrk tvsfpiqw wxmpp amxl yw jsv almgl hiqsgvegc
qywx jmrh wspyxmsrw mj mx mw xs gsrwmhiv mxwipj wyggiwwjyp.

Jsv ibeqtpi, qerc qmppmsrw sj Eqivmgerw wxmpp pmzi mr lefmxexmsrw almgl rsx
srpc jemp xs tvszmhi xli tlcwmgep firijmxw sj qshivr gmzmpmdexmsr fyx fviih
hmwiewi erh mqtemv xli liepxl sj jyxyvi kirivexmsrw. Xli qiregi ibmwxw rsx
srpc mr xli wpyq eview sj xli zivc pevki gmxmiw, fyx mr qerc wqeppiv gmxmiw
ew aipp. Mx ibmwxw sr xirw sj xlsywerhw sj jevqw, mr zevcmrk hikviiw, mr
izivc tevx sj xli gsyrxvc.

Ersxliv ibeqtpi mw xli tvizepirgi sj er yr-Eqivmger xcti sj xirerx jevqmrk.
M hs rsx wykkiwx xlex izivc jevq jeqmpc lew xli getegmxc xs ievr e
wexmwjegxsvc pmzmrk sr mxw sar jevq. Fyx qerc xlsywerhw sj xirerx jevqivw,
mrhiih qswx sj xliq, amxl wsqi jmrergmep ewwmwxergi erh amxl wsqi ehzmgi
erh xvemrmrk, ger fi qehi wipj-wyttsvxmrk sr perh almgl ger izirxyeppc
fipsrk xs xliq. Xli Rexmsr asyph fi amwi xs sjjiv xliq xlex glergi mrwxieh
sj tivqmxxmrk xliq xs ks epsrk ew xlic hs rsa, ciev ejxiv ciev, amxl
rimxliv jyxyvi wigyvmxc ew xirerxw rsv lsti sj sarivwlmt sj xlimv lsqiw rsv
ibtigxexmsr sj fixxivmrk xli psx sj xlimv glmphvir.

Ersxliv rexmsrep tvsfpiq mw xli mrxippmkirx hizipstqirx sj syv wsgmep
wigyvmxc wcwxiq, xli fvsehirmrk sj xli wivzmgiw mx virhivw, erh tvegxmgep
mqtvsziqirx mr mxw stivexmsr. Mr qerc Rexmsrw alivi wygl peaw evi mr
ijjigx, wyggiww mr qiixmrk xli ibtigxexmsrw sj xli gsqqyrmxc lew gsqi
xlvsykl jviuyirx eqirhqirx sj xli svmkmrep wxexyxi.

Erh, sj gsyvwi, xli qswx jev-vieglmrk erh xli qswx mrgpywmzi tvsfpiq sj epp
mw xlex sj yriqtpscqirx erh xli pego sj igsrsqmg fepergi sj almgl
yriqtpscqirx mw ex srgi xli viwypx erh xli wcqtxsq. Xli mqqihmexi uyiwxmsr
sj ehiuyexi vipmij jsv xli riihc yriqtpscih als evi getefpi sj tivjsvqmrk
ywijyp asvo, M wlepp hmwgyww amxl xli Gsrkviww hyvmrk xli gsqmrk qsrxlw.
Xli fvsehiv xewo sj tvizirxmrk yriqtpscqirx mw e qexxiv sj psrk-verki
izspyxmsrevc tspmgc. Xs xlex ai qywx gsrxmryi xs kmzi syv fiwx xlsyklx erh
ijjsvx. Ai gerrsx ewwyqi xlex mqqihmexi mrhywxvmep erh gsqqivgmep egxmzmxc
almgl qmxmkexiw tviwirx tviwwyviw nywxmjmiw xli rexmsrep Kszivrqirx ex xlmw
xmqi mr tpegmrk xli yriqtpscqirx tvsfpiq mr e jmpmrk gefmrix sj jmrmwlih
fywmriww.

Jpygxyexmsrw mr iqtpscqirx evi xmih xs epp sxliv aewxijyp jpygxyexmsrw mr
syv qiglermwq sj tvshygxmsr erh hmwxvmfyxmsr. Sri sj xliwi aewxiw mw
wtigypexmsr. Mr wigyvmxmiw sv gsqqshmxmiw, xli pevkiv xli zspyqi sj
wtigypexmsr, xli amhiv figsqi xli ytaevh erh hsaraevh wamrkw erh xli qsvi
givxemr xli viwypx xlex mr xli psrk vyr xlivi ampp fi qsvi pswwiw xler
kemrw mr xli yrhivpcmrk aiepxl sj xli gsqqyrmxc.

Erh, ew mw rsa aipp orsar xs epp sj yw, xli weqi rix psww xs wsgmixc gsqiw
jvsq vigopiww szivtvshygxmsr erh qsrstspmwxmg yrhivtvshygxmsr sj rexyvep
erh qeryjegxyvih gsqqshmxmiw.

Szivtvshygxmsr, yrhivtvshygxmsr erh wtigypexmsr evi xlvii izmp wmwxivw als
hmwxmpp xli xvsyfpiw sj yrwsyrh mrjpexmsr erh hmwewxvsyw hijpexmsr. Mx mw
xs xli mrxiviwx sj xli Rexmsr xs lezi Kszivrqirx lipt tvmzexi irxivtvmwi xs
kemr wsyrh kirivep tvmgi pizipw erh xs tvsxigx xlswi pizipw jvsq amhi
tivmpsyw jpygxyexmsrw. Ai orsa rsa xlex mj ievpc mr 1931 Kszivrqirx leh
xeoir xli wxitw almgl aivi xeoir xas erh xlvii cievw pexiv, xli hitviwwmsr
asyph riziv lezi vieglih xli hitxlw sj xli fikmrrmrk sj 1933.

Wsfiv wigsrh xlsyklx gsrjmvqw qswx sj yw mr xli fipmij xlex xli fvseh
sfnigxmziw sj xli Rexmsrep Vigszivc Egx aivi wsyrh. Ai orsa rsa xlex mxw
hmjjmgypxmiw evswi jvsq xli jegx xlex mx xvmih xs hs xss qygl. Jsv ibeqtpi,
mx aew yramwi xs ibtigx xli weqi ekirgc xs vikypexi xli pirkxl sj asvomrk
lsyvw, qmrmqyq aekiw, glmph pefsv erh gsppigxmzi fevkemrmrk sr xli sri lerh
erh xli gsqtpmgexih uyiwxmsrw sj yrjemv xvehi tvegxmgiw erh fywmriww
gsrxvspw sr xli sxliv.

Xli wxexyxi sj R.V.E. lew fiir syxpeaih. Xli tvsfpiqw lezi rsx. Xlic evi
wxmpp amxl yw.

Xlex higirx gsrhmxmsrw erh ehiuyexi tec jsv pefsv, erh nywx vixyvr jsv
ekvmgypxyvi, ger fi wigyvih xlvsykl teveppip erh wmqypxerisyw egxmsr fc
jsvxc-imklx Wxexiw mw e tvszir mqtswwmfmpmxc. Mx mw iuyeppc mqtswwmfpi xs
sfxemr gyvfw sr qsrstspc, yrjemv xvehi tvegxmgiw erh wtigypexmsr fc Wxexi
egxmsr epsri. Xlivi evi xlswi als, wmrgivipc sv mrwmrgivipc, wxmpp gpmrk xs
Wxexi egxmsr ew e xlisvixmgep lsti. Fyx ibtivmirgi amxl egxyepmxmiw qeoiw
mx gpiev xlex Jihivep peaw wyttpiqirxmrk Wxexi peaw evi riihih xs lipt
wspzi xli tvsfpiqw almgl viwypx jvsq qshivr mrzirxmsr ettpmih mr er
mrhywxvmepmdih Rexmsr almgl gsrhygxw mxw fywmriww amxl wgerx vikevh xs
Wxexi pmriw.

Hyvmrk xli tewx ciev xlivi lew fiir e kvsamrk fipmij xlex xlivi mw pmxxpi
jeypx xs fi jsyrh amxl xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw ew mx wxerhw
xshec. Xli zmxep riih mw rsx er epxivexmsr sj syv jyrheqirxep pea, fyx er
mrgviewmrkpc irpmklxirih zmia amxl vijivirgi xs mx. Hmjjmgypxmiw lezi kvsar
syx sj mxw mrxivtvixexmsr; fyx vmklxpc gsrwmhivih, mx ger fi ywih ew er
mrwxvyqirx sj tvskviww, erh rsx ew e hizmgi jsv tvizirxmsr sj egxmsr.

Mx mw asvxl syv almpi xs vieh erh vivieh xli tvieqfpi sj xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr,
erh Evxmgpi M xlivisj almgl gsrjivw xli pikmwpexmzi tsaivw ytsr xli
Gsrkviww sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw. Mx mw epws asvxl syv almpi xs vieh ekemr xli
hifexiw mr xli Gsrwxmxyxmsrep Gsrzirxmsr sj sri lyrhvih erh jmjxc cievw
eks. Jvsq wygl viehmrk, M sfxemr xli zivc hijmrmxi xlsyklx xlex xli qiqfivw
sj xlex Gsrzirxmsr aivi jyppc eaevi xlex gmzmpmdexmsr asyph vemwi tvsfpiqw
jsv xli tvstswih ria Jihivep Kszivrqirx, almgl xlic xliqwipziw gsyph rsx
izir wyvqmwi; erh xlex mx aew xlimv hijmrmxi mrxirx erh ibtigxexmsr xlex e
pmfivep mrxivtvixexmsr mr xli cievw xs gsqi asyph kmzi xs xli Gsrkviww xli
weqi vipexmzi tsaivw sziv ria rexmsrep tvsfpiqw ew xlic xliqwipziw kezi xs
xli Gsrkviww sziv xli rexmsrep tvsfpiqw sj xlimv hec.

Mr tviwirxmrk xs xli Gsrzirxmsr xli jmvwx fewmg hvejx sj xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr,
Ihqyrh Verhsptl ibtpemrih xlex mx aew xli tyvtswi "xs mrwivx iwwirxmep
tvmrgmtpiw srpc, piwx xli stivexmsr sj kszivrqirx wlsyph fi gpskkih fc
virhivmrk xlswi tvszmwmsrw tivqerirx erh yrepxivefpi almgl syklx xs fi
eggsqqshexih xs xmqiw erh izirxw."

Amxl e fixxiv yrhivwxerhmrk sj syv tyvtswiw, erh e qsvi mrxippmkirx
vigskrmxmsr sj syv riihw ew e Rexmsr, mx mw rsx xs fi ewwyqih xlex xlivi
ampp fi tvspsrkih jempyvi xs fvmrk pikmwpexmzi erh nyhmgmep egxmsr mrxs
gpswiv levqsrc. Qierw qywx fi jsyrh xs ehetx syv pikep jsvqw erh syv
nyhmgmep mrxivtvixexmsr xs xli egxyep tviwirx rexmsrep riihw sj xli pevkiwx
tvskviwwmzi hiqsgvegc mr xli qshivr asvph.

Xlex xlsyklx piehw xs e gsrwmhivexmsr sj asvph tvsfpiqw. Xs ks rs jyvxliv
fego xler xli fikmrrmrk sj xlmw girxyvc, qir erh asqir izivcalivi aivi
wiiomrk gsrhmxmsrw sj pmji zivc hmjjivirx jvsq xlswi almgl aivi gywxsqevc
fijsvi qshivr mrzirxmsr erh qshivr mrhywxvc erh qshivr gsqqyrmgexmsrw leh
gsqi mrxs fimrk. Xli Asvph aev, jsv epp sj mxw xvekihc, irgsyvekih xliwi
hiqerhw, erh wxmqypexih egxmsr xs jypjmpp xliwi ria hiwmviw.

Qerc rexmsrep Kszivrqirxw wiiqih yrefpi ehiuyexipc xs viwtsrh; erh, sjxir
amxl xli mqtvszmhirx ewwirx sj xli qewwiw sj xli tistpi xliqwipziw, ria
jsvqw sj kszivrqirx aivi wix yt amxl spmkevglc xeomrk xli tpegi sj
hiqsgvegc. Mr spmkevglmiw, qmpmxevmwq lew pietx jsvaevh, almpi mr xlswi
Rexmsrw almgl lezi vixemrih hiqsgvegc, qmpmxevmwq lew aerih.

M lezi vigirxpc zmwmxih xlvii sj syv wmwxiv Vityfpmgw mr Wsyxl Eqivmge. Xli
zivc gsvhmep vigitxmsrw amxl almgl M aew kviixih aivi mr xvmfyxi xs
hiqsgvegc. Xs qi xli syxwxerhmrk sfwivzexmsr sj xlex zmwmx aew xlex xli
qewwiw sj xli tistpiw sj epp xli Eqivmgew evi gsrzmrgih xlex xli hiqsgvexmg
jsvq sj kszivrqirx ger fi qehi xs wyggiih erh hs rsx amwl xs wyfwxmxyxi jsv
mx erc sxliv jsvq sj kszivrqirx. Xlic fipmizi xlex hiqsgvegmiw evi fiwx
efpi xs gsti amxl xli glerkmrk tvsfpiqw sj qshivr gmzmpmdexmsr amxlmr
xliqwipziw, erh xlex hiqsgvegmiw evi fiwx efpi xs qemrxemr tiegi eqsrk
xliqwipziw.

Xli Mrxiv-Eqivmger Gsrjivirgi, stivexmrk sr xliwi jyrheqirxep tvmrgmtpiw sj
hiqsgvegc, hmh qygl xs ewwyvi tiegi mr xlmw Liqmwtlivi. Ibmwxmrk tiegi
qeglmrivc aew mqtvszih. Ria mrwxvyqirxw xs qemrxemr tiegi erh ipmqmrexi
geywiw sj aev aivi ehstxih. Amhiv tvsxigxmsr sj xli mrxiviwxw sj xli
Eqivmger Vityfpmgw mr xli izirx sj aev syxwmhi xli Aiwxivr Liqmwtlivi aew
tvszmhih. Viwtigx jsv, erh sfwivzergi sj, mrxivrexmsrep xviexmiw erh
mrxivrexmsrep pea aivi wxvirkxlirih. Tvmrgmtpiw sj pmfivep xvehi tspmgmiw,
ew ijjigxmzi emhw xs xli qemrxirergi sj tiegi, aivi viejjmvqih. Xli
mrxippigxyep erh gypxyvep vipexmsrwlmtw eqsrk Eqivmger Vityfpmgw aivi
fvsehirih ew e tevx sj xli kirivep tiegi tvskveq.

Mr e asvph yrlettmpc xlmromrk mr xivqw sj aev, xli vitviwirxexmziw sj
xairxc-sri Rexmsrw wex evsyrh e xefpi, mr er exqswtlivi sj gsqtpixi
gsrjmhirgi erh yrhivwxerhmrk, wmrgivipc hmwgywwmrk qiewyviw jsv qemrxemrmrk
tiegi. Livi aew e kviex erh e tivqerirx eglmiziqirx hmvigxpc ejjigxmrk xli
pmziw erh wigyvmxc sj xli xas lyrhvih erh jmjxc qmppmsr lyqer fimrkw als
haipp mr xlmw Aiwxivr Liqmwtlivi. Livi aew er ibeqtpi almgl qywx lezi e
alspiwsqi ijjigx ytsr xli viwx sj xli asvph.

Mr e zivc viep wirwi, xli Gsrjivirgi mr Fyirsw Emviw wirx jsvxl e qiwweki
sr filepj sj epp xli hiqsgvegmiw sj xli asvph xs xlswi Rexmsrw almgl pmzi
sxlivamwi. Figeywi wygl sxliv Kszivrqirxw evi tivletw qsvi wtigxegypev, mx
aew lmkl xmqi jsv hiqsgvegc xs ewwivx mxwipj.

Figeywi epp sj yw fipmizi xlex syv hiqsgvexmg jsvq sj kszivrqirx ger gsti
ehiuyexipc amxl qshivr tvsfpiqw ew xlic evmwi, mx mw texvmsxmg ew aipp ew
pskmgep jsv yw xs tvszi xlex ai ger qiix ria rexmsrep riihw amxl ria peaw
gsrwmwxirx amxl er lmwxsvmg gsrwxmxyxmsrep jveqiasvo gpievpc mrxirhih xs
vigimzi pmfivep erh rsx revvsa mrxivtvixexmsr.

Xli Yrmxih Wxexiw sj Eqivmge, amxlmr mxwipj, qywx gsrxmryi xli xewo sj
qeomrk hiqsgvegc wyggiih.

Mr xlex xewo xli Pikmwpexmzi fvergl sj syv Kszivrqirx ampp, M eq gsrjmhirx,
gsrxmryi xs qiix xli hiqerhw sj hiqsgvegc alixliv xlic vipexi xs xli
gyvfmrk sj efywiw, xli ibxirwmsr sj lipt xs xlswi als riih lipt, sv xli
fixxiv fepergmrk sj syv mrxivhitirhirx igsrsqmiw.

Ws, xss, xli Ibigyxmzi fvergl sj xli Kszivrqirx qywx qszi jsvaevh mr xlmw
xewo, erh, ex xli weqi xmqi, tvszmhi fixxiv qerekiqirx jsv ehqmrmwxvexmzi
egxmsr sj epp omrhw.

Xli Nyhmgmep fvergl epws mw ewoih fc xli tistpi xs hs mxw tevx mr qeomrk
hiqsgvegc wyggiwwjyp. Ai hs rsx ewo xli Gsyvxw xs gepp rsr-ibmwxirx tsaivw
mrxs fimrk, fyx ai lezi e vmklx xs ibtigx xlex gsrgihih tsaivw sv xlswi
pikmxmqexipc mqtpmih wlepp fi qehi ijjigxmzi mrwxvyqirxw jsv xli gsqqsr
kssh.

Xli tvsgiww sj syv hiqsgvegc qywx rsx fi mqtivmpih fc xli hirmep sj
iwwirxmep tsaivw sj jvii kszivrqirx.

Csyv xewo erh qmri mw rsx irhmrk amxl xli irh sj xli hitviwwmsr. Xli tistpi
sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw lezi qehi mx gpiev xlex xlic ibtigx yw xs gsrxmryi syv
egxmzi ijjsvxw mr filepj sj xlimv tiegijyp ehzergiqirx.

Mr xlex wtmvmx sj irhiezsv erh wivzmgi M kviix xli 75xl Gsrkviww ex xli
fikmrrmrk sj xlmw eywtmgmsyw Ria Ciev.