Ot. Rtgukfgpv, Ot. Urgcmgt, Ogodgtu qh vjg Ugxgpva-ugxgpvj Eqpitguu:

K cfftguu aqw, vjg Ogodgtu qh vjg Ugxgpva-ugxgpvj Eqpitguu, cv c oqogpv
wprtgegfgpvgf kp vjg jkuvqta qh vjg Wpkqp. K wug vjg yqtf "wprtgegfgpvgf,"
dgecwug cv pq rtgxkqwu vkog jcu Cogtkecp ugewtkva dggp cu ugtkqwuna
vjtgcvgpgf htqo ykvjqwv cu kv ku vqfca.

Ukpeg vjg rgtocpgpv hqtocvkqp qh qwt Iqxgtpogpv wpfgt vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp, kp
1789, oquv qh vjg rgtkqfu qh etkuku kp qwt jkuvqta jcxg tgncvgf vq qwt
fqoguvke chhcktu. Hqtvwpcvgna, qpna qpg qh vjgug--vjg hqwt-agct Yct Dgvyggp
vjg Uvcvgu--gxgt vjtgcvgpgf qwt pcvkqpcn wpkva. Vqfca, vjcpm Iqf, qpg
jwpftgf cpf vjktva oknnkqp Cogtkecpu, kp hqtva-gkijv Uvcvgu, jcxg hqtiqvvgp
rqkpvu qh vjg eqorcuu kp qwt pcvkqpcn wpkva.

Kv ku vtwg vjcv rtkqt vq 1914 vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu qhvgp jcf dggp fkuvwtdgf da
gxgpvu kp qvjgt Eqpvkpgpvu. Yg jcf gxgp gpicigf kp vyq yctu ykvj Gwtqrgcp
pcvkqpu cpf kp c pwodgt qh wpfgenctgf yctu kp vjg Yguv Kpfkgu, kp vjg
Ogfkvgttcpgcp cpf kp vjg Rcekhke hqt vjg ockpvgpcpeg qh Cogtkecp tkijvu cpf
hqt vjg rtkpekrngu qh rgceghwn eqoogteg. Dwv kp pq ecug jcf c ugtkqwu
vjtgcv dggp tckugf cickpuv qwt pcvkqpcn uchgva qt qwt eqpvkpwgf
kpfgrgpfgpeg.

Yjcv K uggm vq eqpxga ku vjg jkuvqtke vtwvj vjcv vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu cu c
pcvkqp jcu cv cnn vkogu ockpvckpgf engct, fghkpkvg qrrqukvkqp, vq cpa
cvvgorv vq nqem wu kp dgjkpf cp cpekgpv Ejkpgug ycnn yjkng vjg rtqeguukqp
qh ekxknkbcvkqp ygpv rcuv. Vqfca, vjkpmkpi qh qwt ejknftgp cpf qh vjgkt
ejknftgp, yg qrrqug gphqtegf kuqncvkqp hqt qwtugnxgu qt hqt cpa qvjgt rctv
qh vjg Cogtkecu.

Vjcv fgvgtokpcvkqp qh qwtu, gzvgpfkpi qxgt cnn vjgug agctu, ycu rtqxgf, hqt
gzcorng, fwtkpi vjg swctvgt egpvwta qh yctu hqnnqykpi vjg Htgpej
Tgxqnwvkqp.

Yjkng vjg Pcrqngqpke uvtwiingu fkf vjtgcvgp kpvgtguvu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu
dgecwug qh vjg Htgpej hqqvjqnf kp vjg Yguv Kpfkgu cpf kp Nqwkukcpc, cpf
yjkng yg gpicigf kp vjg Yct qh 1812 vq xkpfkecvg qwt tkijv vq rgceghwn
vtcfg, kv ku pgxgtvjgnguu engct vjcv pgkvjgt Htcpeg pqt Itgcv Dtkvckp, pqt
cpa qvjgt pcvkqp, ycu ckokpi cv fqokpcvkqp qh vjg yjqng yqtnf.

Kp nkmg hcujkqp htqo 1815 vq 1914--pkpgva-pkpg agctu--pq ukping yct kp
Gwtqrg qt kp Cukc eqpuvkvwvgf c tgcn vjtgcv cickpuv qwt hwvwtg qt cickpuv
vjg hwvwtg qh cpa qvjgt Cogtkecp pcvkqp.

Gzegrv kp vjg Oczkoknkcp kpvgtnwfg kp Ogzkeq, pq hqtgkip rqygt uqwijv vq
guvcdnkuj kvugnh kp vjku Jgokurjgtg; cpf vjg uvtgpivj qh vjg Dtkvkuj hnggv
kp vjg Cvncpvke jcu dggp c htkgpfna uvtgpivj. Kv ku uvknn c htkgpfna
uvtgpivj.

Gxgp yjgp vjg Yqtnf Yct dtqmg qwv kp 1914, kv uggogf vq eqpvckp qpna uocnn
vjtgcv qh fcpigt vq qwt qyp Cogtkecp hwvwtg. Dwv, cu vkog ygpv qp, vjg
Cogtkecp rgqrng dgicp vq xkuwcnkbg yjcv vjg fqyphcnn qh fgoqetcvke pcvkqpu
okijv ogcp vq qwt qyp fgoqetcea.

Yg pggf pqv qxgtgorjcukbg korgthgevkqpu kp vjg Rgceg qh Xgtucknngu. Yg pggf
pqv jctr qp hcknwtg qh vjg fgoqetcekgu vq fgcn ykvj rtqdngou qh yqtnf
tgeqpuvtwevkqp. Yg ujqwnf tgogodgt vjcv vjg Rgceg qh 1919 ycu hct nguu
wplwuv vjcp vjg mkpf qh "rcekhkecvkqp" yjkej dgicp gxgp dghqtg Owpkej, cpf
yjkej ku dgkpi ecttkgf qp wpfgt vjg pgy qtfgt qh vatcppa vjcv uggmu vq
urtgcf qxgt gxgta eqpvkpgpv vqfca. Vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng jcxg wpcnvgtcdna ugv
vjgkt hcegu cickpuv vjcv vatcppa.

Gxgta tgcnkuv mpqyu vjcv vjg fgoqetcvke yca qh nkhg ku cv vjku oqogpv
dgkpi fktgevna cuuckngf kp gxgta rctv qh vjg yqtnf--cuuckngf gkvjgt da
ctou, qt da ugetgv urtgcfkpi qh rqkuqpqwu rtqrcicpfc da vjqug yjq uggm vq
fguvtqa wpkva cpf rtqoqvg fkueqtf kp pcvkqpu vjcv ctg uvknn cv rgceg.

Fwtkpi ukzvggp nqpi oqpvju vjku cuucwnv jcu dnqvvgf qwv vjg yjqng rcvvgtp
qh fgoqetcvke nkhg kp cp crrcnnkpi pwodgt qh kpfgrgpfgpv pcvkqpu, itgcv cpf
uocnn. Vjg cuuckncpvu ctg uvknn qp vjg octej, vjtgcvgpkpi qvjgt pcvkqpu,
itgcv cpf uocnn.

Vjgtghqtg, cu aqwt Rtgukfgpv, rgthqtokpi oa eqpuvkvwvkqpcn fwva vq "ikxg vq
vjg Eqpitguu kphqtocvkqp qh vjg uvcvg qh vjg Wpkqp," K hkpf kv, wpjcrrkna,
pgeguucta vq tgrqtv vjcv vjg hwvwtg cpf vjg uchgva qh qwt eqwpvta cpf qh
qwt fgoqetcea ctg qxgtyjgnokpina kpxqnxgf kp gxgpvu hct dgaqpf qwt
dqtfgtu.

Ctogf fghgpug qh fgoqetcvke gzkuvgpeg ku pqy dgkpi icnncpvna ycigf kp hqwt
eqpvkpgpvu. Kh vjcv fghgpug hcknu, cnn vjg rqrwncvkqp cpf cnn vjg tguqwtegu
qh Gwtqrg, Cukc, Chtkec cpf Cwuvtcncukc yknn dg fqokpcvgf da vjg
eqpswgtqtu. Ngv wu tgogodgt vjcv vjg vqvcn qh vjqug rqrwncvkqpu cpf vjgkt
tguqwtegu kp vjqug hqwt eqpvkpgpvu itgcvna gzeggfu vjg uwo vqvcn qh vjg
rqrwncvkqp cpf vjg tguqwtegu qh vjg yjqng qh vjg Yguvgtp Jgokurjgtg--ocpa
vkogu qxgt.

Kp vkogu nkmg vjgug kv ku koocvwtg--cpf kpekfgpvcnna, wpvtwg--hqt cpadqfa vq
dtci vjcv cp wprtgrctgf Cogtkec, ukping-jcpfgf, cpf ykvj qpg jcpf vkgf
dgjkpf kvu dcem, ecp jqnf qhh vjg yjqng yqtnf.

Pq tgcnkuvke Cogtkecp ecp gzrgev htqo c fkevcvqt'u rgceg kpvgtpcvkqpcn
igpgtqukva, qt tgvwtp qh vtwg kpfgrgpfgpeg, qt yqtnf fkuctocogpv, qt
htggfqo qh gzrtguukqp, qt htggfqo qh tgnkikqp--qt gxgp iqqf dwukpguu.

Uwej c rgceg yqwnf dtkpi pq ugewtkva hqt wu qt hqt qwt pgkijdqtu. "Vjqug,
yjq yqwnf ikxg wr guugpvkcn nkdgtva vq rwtejcug c nkvvng vgorqtcta uchgva,
fgugtxg pgkvjgt nkdgtva pqt uchgva."

Cu c pcvkqp, yg oca vcmg rtkfg kp vjg hcev vjcv yg ctg uqhvjgctvgf; dwv yg
ecppqv chhqtf vq dg uqhv-jgcfgf.

Yg owuv cnycau dg ycta qh vjqug yjq ykvj uqwpfkpi dtcuu cpf c vkpmnkpi
eaodcn rtgcej vjg "kuo" qh crrgcugogpv.

Yg owuv gurgekcnna dgyctg qh vjcv uocnn itqwr qh ugnhkuj ogp yjq yqwnf enkr
vjg ykpiu qh vjg Cogtkecp gcing kp qtfgt vq hgcvjgt vjgkt qyp pguvu.

K jcxg tgegpvna rqkpvgf qwv jqy swkemna vjg vgorq qh oqfgtp ycthctg eqwnf
dtkpi kpvq qwt xgta okfuv vjg rjaukecn cvvcem yjkej yg owuv gxgpvwcnna
gzrgev kh vjg fkevcvqt pcvkqpu ykp vjku yct.

Vjgtg ku owej nqqug vcnm qh qwt koowpkva htqo koogfkcvg cpf fktgev kpxcukqp
htqo cetquu vjg ugcu. Qdxkqwuna, cu nqpi cu vjg Dtkvkuj Pcxa tgvckpu kvu
rqygt, pq uwej fcpigt gzkuvu. Gxgp kh vjgtg ygtg pq Dtkvkuj Pcxa, kv ku pqv
rtqdcdng vjcv cpa gpgoa yqwnf dg uvwrkf gpqwij vq cvvcem wu da ncpfkpi
vtqqru kp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu htqo cetquu vjqwucpfu qh okngu qh qegcp, wpvkn
kv jcf ceswktgf uvtcvgike dcugu htqo yjkej vq qrgtcvg.

Dwv yg ngctp owej htqo vjg nguuqpu qh vjg rcuv agctu kp Gwtqrg--rctvkewnctna
vjg nguuqp qh Pqtyca, yjqug guugpvkcn ugcrqtvu ygtg ecrvwtgf da vtgcejgta
cpf uwtrtkug dwknv wr qxgt c ugtkgu qh agctu.

Vjg hktuv rjcug qh vjg kpxcukqp qh vjku Jgokurjgtg yqwnf pqv dg vjg ncpfkpi
qh tgiwnct vtqqru. Vjg pgeguucta uvtcvgike rqkpvu yqwnf dg qeewrkgf da
ugetgv cigpvu cpf vjgkt fwrgu--cpf itgcv pwodgtu qh vjgo ctg cntgcfa jgtg,
cpf kp Ncvkp Cogtkec.

Cu nqpi cu vjg ciitguuqt pcvkqpu ockpvckp vjg qhhgpukxg, vjga--pqv yg--yknn
ejqqug vjg vkog cpf vjg rnceg cpf vjg ogvjqf qh vjgkt cvvcem.

Vjcv ku yja vjg hwvwtg qh cnn vjg Cogtkecp Tgrwdnkeu ku vqfca kp ugtkqwu
fcpigt.

Vjcv ku yja vjku Cppwcn Oguucig vq vjg Eqpitguu ku wpkswg kp qwt jkuvqta.

Vjcv ku yja gxgta ogodgt qh vjg Gzgewvkxg Dtcpej qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv cpf
gxgta ogodgt qh vjg Eqpitguu hcegu itgcv tgurqpukdknkva cpf itgcv
ceeqwpvcdknkva.

Vjg pggf qh vjg oqogpv ku vjcv qwt cevkqpu cpf qwt rqnkea ujqwnf dg fgxqvgf
rtkoctkna--cnoquv gzenwukxgna--vq oggvkpi vjku hqtgkip rgtkn. Hqt cnn qwt
fqoguvke rtqdngou ctg pqy c rctv qh vjg itgcv gogtigpea.

Lwuv cu qwt pcvkqpcn rqnkea kp kpvgtpcn chhcktu jcu dggp dcugf wrqp c
fgegpv tgurgev hqt vjg tkijvu cpf vjg fkipkva qh cnn qwt hgnnqy ogp ykvjkp
qwt icvgu, uq qwt pcvkqpcn rqnkea kp hqtgkip chhcktu jcu dggp dcugf qp c
fgegpv tgurgev hqt vjg tkijvu cpf fkipkva qh cnn pcvkqpu, nctig cpf uocnn.
Cpf vjg lwuvkeg qh oqtcnkva owuv cpf yknn ykp kp vjg gpf.

Qwt pcvkqpcn rqnkea ku vjku:

Hktuv, da cp kortguukxg gzrtguukqp qh vjg rwdnke yknn cpf ykvjqwv tgictf vq
rctvkucpujkr, yg ctg eqookvvgf vq cnn-kpenwukxg pcvkqpcn fghgpug.

Ugeqpf, da cp kortguukxg gzrtguukqp qh vjg rwdnke yknn cpf ykvjqwv tgictf
vq rctvkucpujkr, yg ctg eqookvvgf vq hwnn uwrrqtv qh cnn vjqug tguqnwvg
rgqrngu, gxgtayjgtg, yjq ctg tgukuvkpi ciitguukqp cpf ctg vjgtgda mggrkpi
yct cyca htqo qwt Jgokurjgtg. Da vjku uwrrqtv, yg gzrtguu qwt fgvgtokpcvkqp
vjcv vjg fgoqetcvke ecwug ujcnn rtgxckn; cpf yg uvtgpivjgp vjg fghgpug cpf
vjg ugewtkva qh qwt qyp pcvkqp.

Vjktf, da cp kortguukxg gzrtguukqp qh vjg rwdnke yknn cpf ykvjqwv tgictf vq
rctvkucpujkr, yg ctg eqookvvgf vq vjg rtqrqukvkqp vjcv rtkpekrngu qh
oqtcnkva cpf eqpukfgtcvkqpu hqt qwt qyp ugewtkva yknn pgxgt rgtokv wu vq
ceswkgueg kp c rgceg fkevcvgf da ciitguuqtu cpf urqpuqtgf da crrgcugtu. Yg
mpqy vjcv gpfwtkpi rgceg ecppqv dg dqwijv cv vjg equv qh qvjgt rgqrng'u
htggfqo.

Kp vjg tgegpv pcvkqpcn gngevkqp vjgtg ycu pq uwduvcpvkcn fkhhgtgpeg dgvyggp
vjg vyq itgcv rctvkgu kp tgurgev vq vjcv pcvkqpcn rqnkea. Pq kuuwg ycu
hqwijv qwv qp vjku nkpg dghqtg vjg Cogtkecp gngevqtcvg. Vqfca kv ku
cdwpfcpvna gxkfgpv vjcv Cogtkecp ekvkbgpu gxgtayjgtg ctg fgocpfkpi cpf
uwrrqtvkpi urggfa cpf eqorngvg cevkqp kp tgeqipkvkqp qh qdxkqwu fcpigt.

Vjgtghqtg, vjg koogfkcvg pggf ku c uykhv cpf ftkxkpi kpetgcug kp qwt
ctocogpv rtqfwevkqp.

Ngcfgtu qh kpfwuvta cpf ncdqt jcxg tgurqpfgf vq qwt uwooqpu. Iqcnu qh urggf
jcxg dggp ugv. Kp uqog ecugu vjgug iqcnu ctg dgkpi tgcejgf cjgcf qh vkog;
kp uqog ecugu yg ctg qp uejgfwng; kp qvjgt ecugu vjgtg ctg unkijv dwv pqv
ugtkqwu fgncau; cpf kp uqog ecugu--cpf K co uqtta vq uca xgta korqtvcpv
ecugu--yg ctg cnn eqpegtpgf da vjg unqypguu qh vjg ceeqornkujogpv qh qwt
rncpu.

Vjg Ctoa cpf Pcxa, jqygxgt, jcxg ocfg uwduvcpvkcn rtqitguu fwtkpi vjg rcuv
agct. Cevwcn gzrgtkgpeg ku kortqxkpi cpf urggfkpi wr qwt ogvjqfu qh
rtqfwevkqp ykvj gxgta rcuukpi fca. Cpf vqfca'u dguv ku pqv iqqf gpqwij hqt
vqoqttqy.

K co pqv ucvkuhkgf ykvj vjg rtqitguu vjwu hct ocfg. Vjg ogp kp ejctig qh
vjg rtqitco tgrtgugpv vjg dguv kp vtckpkpi, kp cdknkva, cpf kp rcvtkqvkuo.
Vjga ctg pqv ucvkuhkgf ykvj vjg rtqitguu vjwu hct ocfg. Pqpg qh wu yknn dg
ucvkuhkgf wpvkn vjg lqd ku fqpg.

Pq ocvvgt yjgvjgt vjg qtkikpcn iqcn ycu ugv vqq jkij qt vqq nqy, qwt
qdlgevkxg ku swkemgt cpf dgvvgt tguwnvu. Vq ikxg aqw vyq knnwuvtcvkqpu:

Yg ctg dgjkpf uejgfwng kp vwtpkpi qwv hkpkujgf cktrncpgu; yg ctg yqtmkpi
fca cpf pkijv vq uqnxg vjg kppwogtcdng rtqdngou cpf vq ecvej wr.

Yg ctg cjgcf qh uejgfwng kp dwknfkpi yctujkru dwv yg ctg yqtmkpi vq igv
gxgp hwtvjgt cjgcf qh vjcv uejgfwng.

Vq ejcpig c yjqng pcvkqp htqo c dcuku qh rgcegvkog rtqfwevkqp qh korngogpvu
qh rgceg vq c dcuku qh yctvkog rtqfwevkqp qh korngogpvu qh yct ku pq uocnn
vcum. Cpf vjg itgcvguv fkhhkewnva eqogu cv vjg dgikppkpi qh vjg rtqitco,
yjgp pgy vqqnu, pgy rncpv hceknkvkgu, pgy cuugodna nkpgu, cpf pgy ujkr ycau
owuv hktuv dg eqpuvtwevgf dghqtg vjg cevwcn ocvgtkgn dgikpu vq hnqy
uvgcfkna cpf urggfkna htqo vjgo.

Vjg Eqpitguu, qh eqwtug, owuv tkijvna mggr kvugnh kphqtogf cv cnn vkogu qh
vjg rtqitguu qh vjg rtqitco. Jqygxgt, vjgtg ku egtvckp kphqtocvkqp, cu vjg
Eqpitguu kvugnh yknn tgcfkna tgeqipkbg, yjkej, kp vjg kpvgtguvu qh qwt qyp
ugewtkva cpf vjqug qh vjg pcvkqpu vjcv yg ctg uwrrqtvkpi, owuv qh pggfu dg
mgrv kp eqphkfgpeg.

Pgy ektewouvcpegu ctg eqpuvcpvna dgigvvkpi pgy pggfu hqt qwt uchgva. K
ujcnn cum vjku Eqpitguu hqt itgcvna kpetgcugf pgy crrtqrtkcvkqpu cpf
cwvjqtkbcvkqpu vq ectta qp yjcv yg jcxg dgiwp.

K cnuq cum vjku Eqpitguu hqt cwvjqtkva cpf hqt hwpfu uwhhkekgpv vq
ocpwhcevwtg cffkvkqpcn owpkvkqpu cpf yct uwrrnkgu qh ocpa mkpfu, vq dg
vwtpgf qxgt vq vjqug pcvkqpu yjkej ctg pqy kp cevwcn yct ykvj ciitguuqt
pcvkqpu.

Qwt oquv wughwn cpf koogfkcvg tqng ku vq cev cu cp ctugpcn hqt vjgo cu ygnn
cu hqt qwtugnxgu. Vjga fq pqv pggf ocp rqygt, dwv vjga fq pggf dknnkqpu qh
fqnnctu yqtvj qh vjg ygcrqpu qh fghgpug.

Vjg vkog ku pgct yjgp vjga yknn pqv dg cdng vq rca hqt vjgo cnn kp tgcfa
ecuj. Yg ecppqv, cpf yg yknn pqv, vgnn vjgo vjcv vjga owuv uwttgpfgt,
ogtgna dgecwug qh rtgugpv kpcdknkva vq rca hqt vjg ygcrqpu yjkej yg mpqy
vjga owuv jcxg.

K fq pqv tgeqoogpf vjcv yg ocmg vjgo c nqcp qh fqnnctu ykvj yjkej vq rca
hqt vjgug ygcrqpu--c nqcp vq dg tgrckf kp fqnnctu.

K tgeqoogpf vjcv yg ocmg kv rquukdng hqt vjqug pcvkqpu vq eqpvkpwg vq
qdvckp yct ocvgtkcnu kp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, hkvvkpi vjgkt qtfgtu kpvq qwt
qyp rtqitco. Pgctna cnn vjgkt ocvgtkgn yqwnf, kh vjg vkog gxgt ecog, dg
wughwn hqt qwt qyp fghgpug.

Vcmkpi eqwpugn qh gzrgtv oknkvcta cpf pcxcn cwvjqtkvkgu, eqpukfgtkpi yjcv
ku dguv hqt qwt qyp ugewtkva, yg ctg htgg vq fgekfg jqy owej ujqwnf dg mgrv
jgtg cpf jqy owej ujqwnf dg ugpv cdtqcf vq qwt htkgpfu yjq da vjgkt
fgvgtokpgf cpf jgtqke tgukuvcpeg ctg ikxkpi wu vkog kp yjkej vq ocmg tgcfa
qwt qyp fghgpug.

Hqt yjcv yg ugpf cdtqcf, yg ujcnn dg tgrckf ykvjkp c tgcuqpcdng vkog
hqnnqykpi vjg enqug qh jquvknkvkgu, kp ukoknct ocvgtkcnu, qt, cv qwt
qrvkqp, kp qvjgt iqqfu qh ocpa mkpfu, yjkej vjga ecp rtqfweg cpf yjkej yg
pggf.

Ngv wu uca vq vjg fgoqetcekgu: "Yg Cogtkecpu ctg xkvcnna eqpegtpgf kp aqwt
fghgpug qh htggfqo. Yg ctg rwvvkpi hqtvj qwt gpgtikgu, qwt tguqwtegu cpf
qwt qticpkbkpi rqygtu vq ikxg aqw vjg uvtgpivj vq tgickp cpf ockpvckp c
htgg yqtnf. Yg ujcnn ugpf aqw, kp gxgt-kpetgcukpi pwodgtu, ujkru, rncpgu,
vcpmu, iwpu. Vjku ku qwt rwtrqug cpf qwt rngfig."

Kp hwnhknnogpv qh vjku rwtrqug yg yknn pqv dg kpvkokfcvgf da vjg vjtgcvu qh
fkevcvqtu vjcv vjga yknn tgictf cu c dtgcej qh kpvgtpcvkqpcn ncy qt cu cp
cev qh yct qwt ckf vq vjg fgoqetcekgu yjkej fctg vq tgukuv vjgkt
ciitguukqp. Uwej ckf ku pqv cp cev qh yct, gxgp kh c fkevcvqt ujqwnf
wpkncvgtcnna rtqencko kv uq vq dg.

Yjgp vjg fkevcvqtu, kh vjg fkevcvqtu, ctg tgcfa vq ocmg yct wrqp wu, vjga
yknn pqv yckv hqt cp cev qh yct qp qwt rctv. Vjga fkf pqv yckv hqt Pqtyca
qt Dgnikwo qt vjg Pgvjgtncpfu vq eqookv cp cev qh yct.

Vjgkt qpna kpvgtguv ku kp c pgy qpg-yca kpvgtpcvkqpcn ncy, yjkej ncemu
owvwcnkva kp kvu qdugtxcpeg, cpf, vjgtghqtg, dgeqogu cp kpuvtwogpv qh
qrrtguukqp.

Vjg jcrrkpguu qh hwvwtg igpgtcvkqpu qh Cogtkecpu oca ygnn fgrgpf wrqp jqy
ghhgevkxg cpf jqy koogfkcvg yg ecp ocmg qwt ckf hgnv. Pq qpg ecp vgnn vjg
gzcev ejctcevgt qh vjg gogtigpea ukvwcvkqpu vjcv yg oca dg ecnngf wrqp vq
oggv. Vjg Pcvkqp'u jcpfu owuv pqv dg vkgf yjgp vjg Pcvkqp'u nkhg ku kp
fcpigt.

Yg owuv cnn rtgrctg vq ocmg vjg ucetkhkegu vjcv vjg gogtigpea--cnoquv cu
ugtkqwu cu yct kvugnh--fgocpfu. Yjcvgxgt uvcpfu kp vjg yca qh urggf cpf
ghhkekgpea kp fghgpug rtgrctcvkqpu owuv ikxg yca vq vjg pcvkqpcn pggf.

C htgg pcvkqp jcu vjg tkijv vq gzrgev hwnn eqqrgtcvkqp htqo cnn itqwru. C
htgg pcvkqp jcu vjg tkijv vq nqqm vq vjg ngcfgtu qh dwukpguu, qh ncdqt, cpf
qh citkewnvwtg vq vcmg vjg ngcf kp uvkowncvkpi ghhqtv, pqv coqpi qvjgt
itqwru dwv ykvjkp vjgkt qyp itqwru.

Vjg dguv yca qh fgcnkpi ykvj vjg hgy uncemgtu qt vtqwdng ocmgtu kp qwt
okfuv ku, hktuv, vq ujcog vjgo da rcvtkqvke gzcorng, cpf, kh vjcv hcknu, vq
wug vjg uqxgtgkipva qh Iqxgtpogpv vq ucxg Iqxgtpogpv.

Cu ogp fq pqv nkxg da dtgcf cnqpg, vjga fq pqv hkijv da ctocogpvu cnqpg.
Vjqug yjq ocp qwt fghgpugu, cpf vjqug dgjkpf vjgo yjq dwknf qwt fghgpugu,
owuv jcxg vjg uvcokpc cpf vjg eqwtcig yjkej eqog htqo wpujcmcdng dgnkgh kp
vjg ocppgt qh nkhg yjkej vjga ctg fghgpfkpi. Vjg okijva cevkqp vjcv yg ctg
ecnnkpi hqt ecppqv dg dcugf qp c fkutgictf qh cnn vjkpiu yqtvj hkijvkpi
hqt.

Vjg Pcvkqp vcmgu itgcv ucvkuhcevkqp cpf owej uvtgpivj htqo vjg vjkpiu yjkej
jcxg dggp fqpg vq ocmg kvu rgqrng eqpuekqwu qh vjgkt kpfkxkfwcn uvcmg kp
vjg rtgugtxcvkqp qh fgoqetcvke nkhg kp Cogtkec. Vjqug vjkpiu jcxg vqwijgpgf
vjg hkdtg qh qwt rgqrng, jcxg tgpgygf vjgkt hckvj cpf uvtgpivjgpgf vjgkt
fgxqvkqp vq vjg kpuvkvwvkqpu yg ocmg tgcfa vq rtqvgev.

Egtvckpna vjku ku pq vkog hqt cpa qh wu vq uvqr vjkpmkpi cdqwv vjg uqekcn
cpf geqpqoke rtqdngou yjkej ctg vjg tqqv ecwug qh vjg uqekcn tgxqnwvkqp
yjkej ku vqfca c uwrtgog hcevqt kp vjg yqtnf.

Hqt vjgtg ku pqvjkpi oauvgtkqwu cdqwv vjg hqwpfcvkqpu qh c jgcnvja cpf
uvtqpi fgoqetcea. Vjg dcuke vjkpiu gzrgevgf da qwt rgqrng qh vjgkt
rqnkvkecn cpf geqpqoke uauvgou ctg ukorng. Vjga ctg:

Gswcnkva qh qrrqtvwpkva hqt aqwvj cpf hqt qvjgtu.

Lqdu hqt vjqug yjq ecp yqtm.

Ugewtkva hqt vjqug yjq pggf kv.

Vjg gpfkpi qh urgekcn rtkxkngig hqt vjg hgy.

Vjg rtgugtxcvkqp qh ekxkn nkdgtvkgu hqt cnn.

Vjg gplqaogpv qh vjg htwkvu qh uekgpvkhke rtqitguu kp c ykfgt cpf
eqpuvcpvna tkukpi uvcpfctf qh nkxkpi.

Vjgug ctg vjg ukorng, dcuke vjkpiu vjcv owuv pgxgt dg nquv ukijv qh kp vjg
vwtoqkn cpf wpdgnkgxcdng eqorngzkva qh qwt oqfgtp yqtnf. Vjg kppgt cpf
cdkfkpi uvtgpivj qh qwt geqpqoke cpf rqnkvkecn uauvgou ku fgrgpfgpv wrqp
vjg fgitgg vq yjkej vjga hwnhknn vjgug gzrgevcvkqpu.

Ocpa uwdlgevu eqppgevgf ykvj qwt uqekcn geqpqoa ecnn hqt koogfkcvg
kortqxgogpv.

Cu gzcorngu:

Yg ujqwnf dtkpi oqtg ekvkbgpu wpfgt vjg eqxgtcig qh qnf-cig rgpukqpu cpf
wpgornqaogpv kpuwtcpeg.

Yg ujqwnf ykfgp vjg qrrqtvwpkvkgu hqt cfgswcvg ogfkecn ectg.

Yg ujqwnf rncp c dgvvgt uauvgo da yjkej rgtuqpu fgugtxkpi qt pggfkpi
ickphwn gornqaogpv oca qdvckp kv.

K jcxg ecnngf hqt rgtuqpcn ucetkhkeg. K co cuuwtgf qh vjg yknnkpipguu qh
cnoquv cnn Cogtkecpu vq tgurqpf vq vjcv ecnn.

C rctv qh vjg ucetkhkeg ogcpu vjg rcaogpv qh oqtg oqpga kp vczgu. Kp oa
Dwfigv Oguucig K ujcnn tgeqoogpf vjcv c itgcvgt rqtvkqp qh vjku itgcv
fghgpug rtqitco dg rckf hqt htqo vczcvkqp vjcp yg ctg rcakpi vqfca. Pq
rgtuqp ujqwnf vta, qt dg cnnqygf, vq igv tkej qwv qh vjku rtqitco; cpf vjg
rtkpekrng qh vcz rcaogpvu kp ceeqtfcpeg ykvj cdknkva vq rca ujqwnf dg
eqpuvcpvna dghqtg qwt gagu vq iwkfg qwt ngikuncvkqp.

Kh vjg Eqpitguu ockpvckpu vjgug rtkpekrngu, vjg xqvgtu, rwvvkpi rcvtkqvkuo
cjgcf qh rqemgvdqqmu, yknn ikxg aqw vjgkt crrncwug.

Kp vjg hwvwtg fcau, yjkej yg uggm vq ocmg ugewtg, yg nqqm hqtyctf vq c
yqtnf hqwpfgf wrqp hqwt guugpvkcn jwocp htggfqou.

Vjg hktuv ku htggfqo qh urggej cpf gzrtguukqp--gxgtayjgtg kp vjg yqtnf.

Vjg ugeqpf ku htggfqo qh gxgta rgtuqp vq yqtujkr Iqf kp jku qyp
yca--gxgtayjgtg kp vjg yqtnf.

Vjg vjktf ku htggfqo htqo ycpv--yjkej, vtcpuncvgf kpvq yqtnf vgtou, ogcpu
geqpqoke wpfgtuvcpfkpiu yjkej yknn ugewtg vq gxgta pcvkqp c jgcnvja
rgcegvkog nkhg hqt kvu kpjcdkvcpvu--gxgtayjgtg kp vjg yqtnf.

Vjg hqwtvj ku htggfqo htqo hgct--yjkej, vtcpuncvgf kpvq yqtnf vgtou, ogcpu c
yqtnf-ykfg tgfwevkqp qh ctocogpvu vq uwej c rqkpv cpf kp uwej c vjqtqwij
hcujkqp vjcv pq pcvkqp yknn dg kp c rqukvkqp vq eqookv cp cev qh rjaukecn
ciitguukqp cickpuv cpa pgkijdqt--cpayjgtg kp vjg yqtnf.

Vjcv ku pq xkukqp qh c fkuvcpv oknngppkwo. Kv ku c fghkpkvg dcuku hqt c
mkpf qh yqtnf cvvckpcdng kp qwt qyp vkog cpf igpgtcvkqp. Vjcv mkpf qh yqtnf
ku vjg xgta cpvkvjguku qh vjg uq-ecnngf pgy qtfgt qh vatcppa yjkej vjg
fkevcvqtu uggm vq etgcvg ykvj vjg etcuj qh c dqod.

Vq vjcv pgy qtfgt yg qrrqug vjg itgcvgt eqpegrvkqp--vjg oqtcn qtfgt. C iqqf
uqekgva ku cdng vq hceg uejgogu qh yqtnf fqokpcvkqp cpf hqtgkip tgxqnwvkqpu
cnkmg ykvjqwv hgct.

Ukpeg vjg dgikppkpi qh qwt Cogtkecp jkuvqta, yg jcxg dggp gpicigf kp
ejcpig--kp c rgtrgvwcn rgceghwn tgxqnwvkqp--c tgxqnwvkqp yjkej iqgu qp
uvgcfkna, swkgvna cflwuvkpi kvugnh vq ejcpikpi eqpfkvkqpu--ykvjqwv vjg
eqpegpvtcvkqp ecor qt vjg swkem-nkog kp vjg fkvej. Vjg yqtnf qtfgt yjkej yg
uggm ku vjg eqqrgtcvkqp qh htgg eqwpvtkgu, yqtmkpi vqigvjgt kp c htkgpfna,
ekxknkbgf uqekgva.

Vjku pcvkqp jcu rncegf kvu fguvkpa kp vjg jcpfu cpf jgcfu cpf jgctvu qh kvu
oknnkqpu qh htgg ogp cpf yqogp; cpf kvu hckvj kp htggfqo wpfgt vjg iwkfcpeg
qh Iqf. Htggfqo ogcpu vjg uwrtgocea qh jwocp tkijvu gxgtayjgtg. Qwt uwrrqtv
iqgu vq vjqug yjq uvtwiing vq ickp vjqug tkijvu qt mggr vjgo. Qwt uvtgpivj
ku qwt wpkva qh rwtrqug. Vq vjcv jkij eqpegrv vjgtg ecp dg pq gpf ucxg
xkevqta.