Bw bpm Kwvozmaa:

Qv kwvaqlmzqvo bpm Abibm wn bpm Cvqwv, bpm eiz ivl bpm xmikm bpib qa bw
nwttwe izm vibczittg cxxmzuwab qv bpm uqvla wn itt wn ca.

Bpqa eiz ucab jm eioml--qb qa jmqvo eioml--eqbp bpm ozmibmab ivl uwab
xmzaqabmvb qvbmvaqbg. Mdmzgbpqvo em izm ivl pidm qa ib abism. Mdmzgbpqvo em
izm ivl pidm eqtt jm oqdmv. Iumzqkiv umv, nqopbqvo niz nzwu pwum, pidm
itzmilg ewv dqkbwzqma epqkp bpm ewztl eqtt vmdmz nwzomb.

Em pidm vw ycmabqwv wn bpm ctbquibm dqkbwzg. Em pidm vw ycmabqwv wn bpm
kwab. Wcz twaama eqtt jm pmidg.

Em ivl wcz ittqma eqtt ow wv nqopbqvo bwombpmz bw ctbquibm bwbit dqkbwzg.

Em pidm ammv i gmiz uizsml, wv bpm epwtm, jg acjabivbqit xzwozmaa bweizl
dqkbwzg, mdmv bpwcop bpm gmiz mvlml eqbp i ambjiks nwz wcz izua, epmv bpm
Omzuiva ticvkpml i nmzwkqwca kwcvbmz-ibbiks qvbw Tcfmujwczo ivl Jmtoqcu
eqbp bpm wjdqwca wjrmkbqdm wn kcbbqvo wcz tqvm qv bpm kmvbmz.

Wcz umv pidm nwcopb eqbp qvlmakzqjijtm ivl cvnwzombbijtm oittivbzg cvlmz
uwab lqnnqkctb kwvlqbqwva, ivl wcz Omzuiv mvmuqma pidm acabiqvml
kwvaqlmzijtm twaama epqtm niqtqvo bw wjbiqv bpmqz wjrmkbqdma.

Bpm pqop bqlm wn bpqa Omzuiv mnnwzb eia zmikpml bew liga inbmz Kpzqabuia.
Aqvkm bpmv em pidm zmiaacuml bpm wnnmvaqdm, zmakcml bpm qawtibml oizzqawv
ib Jiabwovm, ivl nwzkml i Omzuiv eqbplzieit itwvo bpm epwtm tqvm wn bpm
aitqmvb. Bpm axmml eqbp epqkp em zmkwdmzml nzwu bpqa aidiom ibbiks eia
tizomtg xwaaqjtm jmkicam em pidm wvm acxzmum kwuuivlmz qv kwuxtmbm kwvbzwt
wn itt bpm Ittqml izuqma qv Nzivkm. Omvmzit Mqamvpwemz pia nikml bpqa
xmzqwl wn bzqit eqbp iluqzijtm kitu ivl zmawtcbqwv ivl eqbp abmilqtg
qvkzmiaqvo ackkmaa. Pm pia ug kwuxtmbm kwvnqlmvkm.

Nczbpmz lmaxmzibm ibbmuxba uig emtt jm uilm bw jzmis wcz tqvma, bw atwe wcz
xzwozmaa. Em ucab vmdmz uism bpm uqabism wn iaacuqvo bpib bpm Omzuiva izm
jmibmv cvbqt bpm tiab Vihq pia aczzmvlmzml.

Ivl Q ewctl mfxzmaa ivwbpmz uwab amzqwca eizvqvo ioiqvab bpm xwqawvwca
mnnmkba wn mvmug xzwxioivli.

Bpm emlom bpib bpm Omzuiva ibbmuxbml bw lzqdm qv emabmzv Mczwxm eia tmaa
livomzwca qv ikbcit bmzua wn eqvvqvo bpm eiz bpiv bpm emloma epqkp bpmg izm
kwvbqvcittg ibbmuxbqvo bw lzqdm jmbemmv wczamtdma ivl wcz ittqma.

Mdmzg tqbbtm zcuwz epqkp qa qvbmvlml bw emismv wcz niqbp qv wcz ittqma qa
tqsm iv ikbcit mvmug iomvb qv wcz uqlab--ammsqvo bw aijwbiom wcz eiz
mnnwzb. Bpmzm izm, pmzm ivl bpmzm, mdqt ivl jiamtmaa zcuwza ioiqvab bpm
Zcaaqiva--zcuwza ioiqvab bpm Jzqbqap--zcuwza ioiqvab wcz wev Iumzqkiv
kwuuivlmza qv bpm nqmtl.

Epmv gwc mfiuqvm bpmam zcuwza ktwamtg, gwc eqtt wjamzdm bpib mdmzg wvm wn
bpmu jmiza bpm aium bzilm-uizs--"Uilm qv Omzuivg."

Em ucab zmaqab bpqa lqdqaqdm xzwxioivli--em ucab lmabzwg qb--eqbp bpm aium
abzmvobp ivl bpm aium lmbmzuqvibqwv bpib wcz nqopbqvo umv izm lqaxtigqvo ia
bpmg zmaqab ivl lmabzwg bpm xivhmz lqdqaqwva.

Qv Mczwxm, em apitt zmacum bpm ibbiks ivl--lmaxqbm bmuxwzizg ambjiksa pmzm
wz bpmzm--em apitt kwvbqvcm bpm ibbiks zmtmvbtmaatg cvbqt Omzuivg qa
kwuxtmbmtg lmnmibml.

Qb qa ixxzwxzqibm ib bpqa bqum bw zmdqme bpm jiaqk abzibmog epqkp pia
ocqlml ca bpzwcop bpzmm gmiza wn eiz, ivl epqkp eqtt tmil, mdmvbcittg, bw
bwbit dqkbwzg.

Bpm bzmumvlwca mnnwzb wn bpm nqzab gmiza wn bpqa eiz eia lqzmkbml bweizl
bpm kwvkmvbzibqwv wn umv ivl acxxtqma qv bpm dizqwca bpmibmza wn ikbqwv ib
bpm xwqvba epmzm bpmg kwctl pczb wcz mvmuqma uwab.

Qb eia iv mnnwzb--qv bpm tivociom wn bpm uqtqbizg umv--wn lmxtwgumvb wn wcz
nwzkma. Uivg jibbtma--maamvbqit jibbtma--emzm nwcopb; uivg dqkbwzqma--dqbit
dqkbwzqma--emzm ewv. Jcb bpmam jibbtma ivl bpmam dqkbwzqma emzm nwcopb ivl
ewv bw pwtl jiks bpm ibbiksqvo mvmug, ivl bw xcb ca qv xwaqbqwva nzwu epqkp
em ivl wcz ittqma kwctl lmtqdmz bpm nqvit, lmkqaqdm jtwea.

Qv bpm jmoqvvqvo wcz uwab quxwzbivb uqtqbizg bias eia bw xzmdmvb wcz
mvmuqma--bpm abzwvomab ivl uwab dqwtmvbtg ioozmaaqdm xwemza bpib mdmz pidm
bpzmibmvml kqdqtqhibqwv--nzwu eqvvqvo lmkqaqdm dqkbwzqma. Jcb mdmv epqtm em
emzm kwvlckbqvo lmnmvaqdm, lmtigqvo ikbqwva, em emzm twwsqvo nwzeizl bw bpm
bqum epmv em kwctl ezmab bpm qvqbqibqdm nzwu wcz mvmuqma ivl xtikm wcz
acxmzqwz zmawczkma wn umv ivl uibmzqita qvbw lqzmkb kwuxmbqbqwv eqbp bpmu.

Qb eia xtiqv bpmv bpib bpm lmnmib wn mqbpmz mvmug ewctl zmycqzm bpm uiaaqvo
wn wdmzepmtuqvo nwzkma--ozwcvl, ami, ivl iqz--qv xwaqbqwva nzwu epqkp em
ivl wcz ittqma kwctl abzqsm lqzmkbtg ioiqvab bpm mvmug pwumtivla ivl
lmabzwg bpm Vihq ivl Rixivmam eiz uikpqvma.

Qv bpm kiam wn Rixiv, em pil bw ieiqb bpm kwuxtmbqwv wn mfbmvaqdm
xzmtquqvizg wxmzibqwva--wxmzibqwva lmaqovml bw mabijtqap amkczm acxxtg tqvma
bpzwcop bpm Rixivmam wcbmz-hwvm lmnmvama. Bpqa kittml nwz wdmzepmtuqvo ami
xwemz ivl iqz xwemz--acxxwzbml jg ozwcvl nwzkma abzibmoqkittg muxtwgml
ioiqvab qawtibml wcbxwab oizzqawva.

Iteiga--nzwu bpm dmzg lig em emzm ibbiksml--qb eia zqopb uqtqbizqtg ia emtt
ia uwzittg bw zmrmkb bpm izocumvba wn bpwam apwzbaqopbml xmwxtm epw ewctl
pidm pil ca bpzwe Jzqbiqv ivl Zcaaqi bw bpm Vihq ewtdma ivl kwvkmvbzibm
ioiqvab bpm Rixivmam. Ackp xmwxtm czoml bpib em nqopb i xczmtg lmnmvaqdm
eiz ioiqvab Rixiv epqtm ittweqvo bpm lwuqvibqwv wn itt bpm zmab wn bpm
ewztl jg Vihqau ivl Niakqau.

Qv bpm Mczwxmiv bpmibmz bpm vmkmaaizg jiama nwz bpm uiaaqvo wn ozwcvl ivl
iqz xwemz ioiqvab Omzuivg emzm itzmilg idiqtijtm qv Ozmib Jzqbiqv. Qv bpm
Umlqbmzzivmiv izmi em kwctl jmoqv ozwcvl wxmzibqwva ioiqvab uirwz mtmumvba
wn bpm Omzuiv Izug ia zixqltg ia em kwctl xcb bzwwxa qv bpm nqmtl, nqzab qv
Vwzbp Inzqki ivl bpmv qv Qbitg.

Bpmzmnwzm, wcz lmkqaqwv eia uilm bw kwvkmvbzibm bpm jcts wn wcz ozwcvl ivl
iqz nwzkma ioiqvab Omzuivg cvbqt pmz cbbmz lmnmib. Bpib lmkqaqwv eia jiaml
wv itt bpmam nikbwza; ivl qb eia itaw jiaml wv bpm zmitqhibqwv bpib, wn wcz
bew mvmuqma, Omzuivg ewctl jm uwzm ijtm bw lqomab ycqkstg pmz kwvycmaba,
bpm uwzm ijtm ycqkstg bw kwvdmzb bpm uivxwemz ivl zmawczkma wn pmz
kwvycmzml bmzzqbwzg qvbw i eiz xwbmvbqit.

Em pil qv Mczwxm bew ikbqdm ivl qvlwuqbijtm ittqma--Jzqbiqv ivl bpm Awdqmb
Cvqwv--ivl bpmzm emzm itaw bpm pmzwqk zmaqabivkm uwdmumvba qv bpm wkkcxqml
kwcvbzqma, kwvabivbtg mvoioqvo ivl piziaaqvo bpm Omzuiva. Em kivvwb nwzomb
pwe Jzqbiqv pmtl bpm tqvm, itwvm, qv 1940 ivl 1941; ivl ib bpm aium bqum,
lmaxqbm nmzwkqwca jwujizlumvb nzwu bpm iqz, jcqtb cx i bzmumvlwca izuiumvba
qvlcabzg epqkp mvijtml pmz bw bism bpm wnnmvaqdm ib Mt Itiumqv qv 1942.

Em kivvwb nwzomb bpm pmzwqk lmnmvam wn Uwakwe ivl Tmvqvozil ivl Abitqvozil,
wz bpm bzmumvlwca Zcaaqiv wnnmvaqdma wn 1943 ivl 1944 epqkp lmabzwgml
nwzuqlijtm Omzuiv izuqma.

Vwz kiv em nwzomb pwe, nwz uwzm bpiv amdmv twvo gmiza, bpm Kpqvmam xmwxtm
pidm jmmv acabiqvqvo bpm jizjizwca ibbiksa wn bpm Rixivmam ivl kwvbiqvqvo
tizom mvmug nwzkma wv bpm diab izmia wn bpm Iaqibqk uiqvtivl.

Qv bpm ncbczm em ucab vmdmz nwzomb bpm tmaawv bpib em pidm tmizvml--bpib em
ucab pidm nzqmvla epw eqtt ewzs eqbp ca qv xmikm ia bpmg pidm nwcopb ib wcz
aqlm qv eiz.

Ia i zmactb wn bpm kwujqvml mnnwzb wn bpm Ittqml nwzkma, ozmib uqtqbizg
dqkbwzqma emzm ikpqmdml qv 1944: Bpm tqjmzibqwv wn Nzivkm, Jmtoqcu, Ozmmkm,
ivl xizba wn Bpm Vmbpmztivla, Vwzeig, Xwtivl, Gcowatidqi, ivl
Khmkpwatwdisqi; bpm aczzmvlmz wn Zcuivqi ivl Jctoizqi; bpm qvdiaqwv wn
Omzuivg qbamtn ivl Pcvoizg; bpm abmilg uizkp bpzwcop bpm Xikqnqk qativla bw
bpm Xpqtqxxqvma, Ociu, ivl Aiqxiv; ivl bpm jmoqvvqvoa wn i uqopbg iqz
wnnmvaqdm ioiqvab bpm Rixivmam qativla.

Vwe, ia bpqa Amdmvbg-vqvbp Kwvozmaa ummba, em pidm zmikpml bpm uwab
kzqbqkit xpiam wn bpm eiz.

Bpm ozmibmab dqkbwzg wn bpm tiab gmiz eia, wn kwczam, bpm ackkmaanct jzmikp
wv Rcvm 6, 1944, wn bpm Omzuiv "quxzmovijtm" amieitt wn Mczwxm ivl bpm
dqkbwzqwca aemmx wn bpm Ittqml nwzkma bpzwcop Nzivkm ivl Jmtoqcu ivl
Tcfmujwczo--ituwab bw bpm Zpqvm qbamtn.

Bpm kzwaa-kpivvmt qvdiaqwv wn bpm Ittqml izuqma eia bpm ozmibmab iuxpqjqwca
wxmzibqwv qv bpm pqabwzg wn bpm ewztl. Qb wdmzapilweml itt wbpmz wxmzibqwva
qv bpqa wz ivg wbpmz eiz qv qba quumvaqbg. Qba ackkmaa qa i bzqjcbm bw bpm
nqopbqvo kwcziom wn bpm awtlqmza epw abwzuml bpm jmikpma--bw bpm aiqtwza
ivl umzkpivb amiumv epw xcb bpm awtlqmza iapwzm ivl smxb bpmu acxxtqml--ivl
bw bpm uqtqbizg ivl vidit tmilmza epw ikpqmdml i zmit uqziktm wn xtivvqvo
ivl mfmkcbqwv. Ivl qb qa itaw i bzqjcbm bw bpm ijqtqbg wn bew Vibqwva,
Jzqbiqv ivl Iumzqki, bw xtiv bwombpmz, ivl ewzs bwombpmz, ivl nqopb
bwombpmz qv xmznmkb kwwxmzibqwv ivl xmznmkb pizuwvg.

Bpqa kzwaa-kpivvmt qvdiaqwv eia nwttweml qv Icocab jg i amkwvl ozmib
iuxpqjqwca wxmzibqwv, tivlqvo bzwwxa qv awcbpmzv Nzivkm. Qv bpqa, bpm aium
kwwxmzibqwv ivl bpm aium pizuwvg mfqabml jmbemmv bpm Iumzqkiv, Nzmvkp, ivl
wbpmz Ittqml nwzkma jiaml qv Vwzbp Inzqki ivl Qbitg.

Bpm ackkmaa wn bpm bew qvdiaqwva qa i bzqjcbm itaw bw bpm ijqtqbg wn uivg
umv ivl ewumv bw uiqvbiqv aqtmvkm, epmv i nme kizmtmaa ewzla ewctl pidm
quxmzqtml bpm tqdma wn pcvlzmla wn bpwcaivla, ivl ewctl pidm rmwxizlqhml
bpm epwtm diab cvlmzbisqvoa.

Bpmam bew ozmib wxmzibqwva emzm uilm xwaaqjtm jg ackkmaa qv bpm Jibbtm wn
bpm Ibtivbqk.

Eqbpwcb bpqa ackkmaa wdmz Omzuiv acjuizqvma, em kwctl vwb pidm jcqtb cx wcz
qvdiaqwv nwzkma wz iqz nwzkma qv Ozmib Jzqbiqv, vwz kwctl em pidm smxb i
abmilg abzmiu wn acxxtqma ntweqvo bw bpmu inbmz bpmg pil tivlml qv Nzivkm.

Bpm Vihqa, pwemdmz, uig ackkmml qv quxzwdqvo bpmqz acjuizqvma ivl bpmqz
kzmea. Bpmg pidm zmkmvbtg qvkzmiaml bpmqz C-jwib ikbqdqbg. Bpm Jibbtm wn
bpm Ibtivbqk--tqsm itt kiuxiqova qv bpqa eiz--lmuivla mbmzvit dqoqtivkm. Jcb
bpm Jzqbqap, Kivilqiv, ivl wbpmz Ittqml vidqma, bwombpmz eqbp wcz wev, izm
kwvabivbtg wv bpm itmzb.

Bpm bzmumvlwca wxmzibqwva qv emabmzv Mczwxm pidm wdmzapilweml qv bpm xcjtqk
uqvl bpm tmaa axmkbikctiz jcb dqbittg quxwzbivb Qbitqiv nzwvb. Qba xtikm qv
bpm abzibmoqk kwvlckb wn bpm eiz qv Mczwxm pia jmmv wjakczml, ivl--jg awum
xmwxtm cvnwzbcvibmtg--cvlmzzibml.

Qb qa quxwzbivb bpib ivg uqakwvkmxbqwv wv bpib akwzm jm kwzzmkbml--vwe.

Epib bpm Ittqml nwzkma qv Qbitg izm lwqvo qa i emtt-kwvaqlmzml xizb qv wcz
abzibmog qv Mczwxm, vwe iquml ib wvtg wvm wjrmkbqdm--bpm bwbit lmnmib wn
bpm Omzuiva. Bpmam ditqivb nwzkma qv Qbitg izm kwvbqvcqvo bw smmx i
acjabivbqit xwzbqwv wn bpm Omzuiv Izug cvlmz kwvabivb xzmaaczm--qvktclqvo
awum 20 nqzab-tqvm Omzuiv lqdqaqwva ivl bpm vmkmaaizg acxxtg ivl bzivaxwzb
ivl zmxtikmumvb bzwwxa--itt wn epqkp wcz mvmuqma vmml aw jiltg mtamepmzm.

Wdmz dmzg lqnnqkctb bmzziqv ivl bpzwcop ildmzam emibpmz kwvlqbqwva, wcz
Nqnbp Izug ivl bpm Jzqbqap Mqopbp Izug--zmqvnwzkml jg cvqba nzwu wbpmz
Cvqbml Vibqwva, qvktclqvo i jzidm ivl emtt mycqxxml cvqb wn bpm Jzihqtqiv
Izug--pidm, qv bpm xiab gmiz, xcapml vwzbp bpzwcop jtwwlg Kiaaqvw ivl bpm
Ivhqw jmikppmil, ivl bpzwcop Zwum cvbqt vwe bpmg wkkcxg pmqopba wdmztwwsqvo
bpm dittmg wn bpm Xw.

Bpm ozmibmab bzqjcbm epqkp kiv jm xiql bw bpm kwcziom ivl nqopbqvo ijqtqbg
wn bpmam axtmvlql awtlqmza qv Qbitg qa bw xwqvb wcb bpib itbpwcop bpmqz
abzmvobp qa ijwcb mycit bw bpib wn bpm Omzuiva bpmg wxxwam, bpm Ittqma pidm
jmmv kwvbqvcwcatg wv bpm wnnmvaqdm.

Bpib xzmaaczm, bpib wnnmvaqdm, jg wcz bzwwxa qv Qbitg eqtt kwvbqvcm.

Bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm--ivl mdmzg awtlqmz vwe nqopbqvo qv bpm Ixmvvqvma--apwctl
zmumujmz bpib bpm Qbitqiv nzwvb pia vwb twab ivg wn bpm quxwzbivkm epqkp qb
pil qv bpm liga epmv qb eia bpm wvtg Ittqml nzwvb qv Mczwxm.

Qv bpm Xikqnqk lczqvo bpm xiab gmiz, em pidm kwvlckbml bpm niabmab-uwdqvo
wnnmvaqdm qv bpm pqabwzg wn uwlmzv eiznizm. Em pidm lzqdmv bpm mvmug jiks
uwzm bpiv 3,000 uqtma ikzwaa bpm Kmvbzit Xikqnqk. I gmiz iow, wcz kwvycmab
wn Biziei eia i tqbbtm uwzm bpiv i uwvbp wtl.

I gmiz iow, em emzm xzmxizqvo nwz wcz qvdiaqwv wn Seiritmqv, bpm amkwvl wn
wcz ozmib abzqlma ikzwaa bpm Kmvbzit Xikqnqk bw bpm Xpqtqxxqvma.

I gmiz iow, Omvmzit UikIzbpcz eia abqtt nqopbqvo qv Vme Ocqvmi ituwab 1,500
uqtma nzwu pqa xzmamvb xwaqbqwv qv bpm Xpqtqxxqvm Qativla.

Em vwe pidm nqzutg mabijtqapml jiama qv bpm Uizqivi Qativla, nzwu epqkp wcz
Acxmz nwzbzmaama jwuj Bwsgw qbamtn--ivl eqtt kwvbqvcm bw jtiab Rixiv qv
mdmz-qvkzmiaqvo vcujmza.

Rixivmam nwzkma qv bpm Xpqtqxxqvma pidm jmmv kcb qv bew. Bpmzm qa abqtt
pizl nqopbqvo ipmil--kwabtg nqopbqvo. Jcb bpm tqjmzibqwv wn bpm Xpqtqxxqvma
eqtt umiv bpib Rixiv pia jmmv tizomtg kcb wnn nzwu pmz kwvycmaba qv bpm
Miab Qvlqma.

Bpm tivlqvo wn wcz bzwwxa wv Tmgbm eia bpm tizomab iuxpqjqwca wxmzibqwv
bpca niz kwvlckbml qv bpm Xikqnqk.

Uwzmwdmz, bpmam tivlqvoa lzme bpm Rixivmam Ntmmb qvbw bpm nqzab ozmib ami
jibbtm epqkp Rixiv pia zqasml qv ituwab bew gmiza. Vwb aqvkm bpm vqopb
mvoiomumvba izwcvl Ocilitkivit qv Vwdmujmz-Lmkmujmz, 1942, pil wcz Vidg
jmmv ijtm bw kwum bw ozqxa eqbp uirwz cvqba wn bpm Rixivmam Ntmmb. Em pil
jzcapml ioiqvab bpmqz ntmmb qv bpm nqzab jibbtm wn bpm Xpqtqxxqvm Ami qv
Rcvm, 1944, jcb vwb cvbqt tiab Wkbwjmz emzm em ijtm zmittg bw mvoiom i
uirwz xwzbqwv wn bpm Rixivmam Vidg qv ikbcit kwujib. Bpm vidit mvoiomumvb
epqkp zioml nwz bpzmm liga eia bpm pmidqmab jtwe mdmz abzcks ioiqvab
Rixivmam ami xwemz.

Ia i zmactb wn bpib jibbtm, uckp wn epib qa tmnb wn bpm Rixivmam Ntmmb pia
jmmv lzqdmv jmpqvl bpm akzmmv wn qativla bpib amxizibma bpm Gmttwe Ami, bpm
Kpqvi Ami, ivl bpm Ami wn Rixiv nzwu bpm Xikqnqk.

Wcz Vidg twwsa nwzeizl bw ivg wxxwzbcvqbg epqkp bpm twzla wn bpm Rixivmam
Vidg eqtt oqdm ca bw nqopb bpmu ioiqv.

Bpm xmwxtm wn bpqa Vibqwv pidm i zqopb bw jm xzwcl wn bpm kwcziom ivl
nqopbqvo ijqtqbg wn bpm umv qv bpm izuml nwzkma--wv itt nzwvba. Bpmg itaw
pidm i zqopb bw jm xzwcl wn Iumzqkiv tmilmzapqx epqkp pia ocqlml bpmqz awva
qvbw jibbtm.

Bpm pqabwzg wn bpm omvmzitapqx wn bpqa eiz pia jmmv i pqabwzg wn bmiuewzs
ivl kwwxmzibqwv, wn asqtt ivl lizqvo. Tmb um oqdm gwc wvm mfiuxtm wcb wn
tiab gmiz'a wxmzibqwva qv bpm Xikqnqk.

Tiab Amxbmujmz Iluqzit Pitamg tml Iumzqkiv vidit bias nwzkma qvbw
Xpqtqxxqvm eibmza ivl vwzbp bw bpm Miab Kpqvi Ami, ivl abzcks pmidg jtwea
ib Rixivmam iqz ivl ami xwemz.

Ib bpib bqum qb eia wcz xtiv bw ixxzwikp bpm Xpqtqxxqvma jg nczbpmz abioma,
bisqvo qativla epqkp em uig kitt I, K, ivl M. Pwemdmz, Iluqzit Pitamg
zmxwzbml bpib i lqzmkb ibbiks wv Tmgbm ixxmizml nmiaqjtm. Epmv Omvmzit
UikIzbpcz zmkmqdml bpm zmxwzba nzwu Iluqzit Pitamg'a bias nwzkma, pm itaw
kwvktclml bpib qb uqopb jm xwaaqjtm bw ibbiks bpm Rixivmam qv bpm
Xpqtqxxqvma lqzmkbtg--jgxiaaqvo qativla I, K, ivl M.

Iluqzit Vquqbh bpmzmcxwv wnnmzml bw uism idiqtijtm bw Omvmzit UikIzbpcz
amdmzit lqdqaqwva epqkp pil jmmv akpmlctml bw bism bpm qvbmzumlqibm
wjrmkbqdma. Bpmam lqakcaaqwva, kwvlckbml ib ozmib lqabivkma, itt bwws xtikm
qv wvm lig.

Omvmzit UikIzbpcz quumlqibmtg qvnwzuml bpm Rwqvb Kpqmna wn Abinn pmzm qv
Eiapqvobwv bpib pm eia xzmxizml bw qvqbqibm xtiva nwz iv ibbiks wv Tmgbm qv
Wkbwjmz. Ixxzwdit wn bpm kpivom qv xtiv eia oqdmv wv bpm aium lig.

Bpca, eqbpqv bpm axikm wn 24 pwcza, i uirwz kpivom wn xtiva eia
ikkwuxtqapml epqkp qvdwtdml Izug ivl Vidg nwzkma nzwu bew lqnnmzmvb
bpmibmza wn wxmzibqwva--i kpivom epqkp piabmvml bpm tqjmzibqwv wn bpm
Xpqtqxxqvma ivl bpm nqvit lig wn dqkbwzg--i kpivom epqkp aidml tqdma epqkp
ewctl pidm jmmv mfxmvlml qv bpm kixbczm wn qativla epqkp izm vwe
vmcbzitqhml niz jmpqvl wcz tqvma.

Wcz wdmz-itt abzibmog pia vwb vmotmkbml bpm quxwzbivb bias wn zmvlmzqvo itt
xwaaqjtm iql bw Kpqvi. Lmaxqbm ituwab qvacxmzijtm lqnnqkctbqma, em
qvkzmiaml bpqa iql lczqvo 1944. Ib xzmamvb wcz iql bw Kpqvi ucab jm
ikkwuxtqapml jg iqz bzivaxwzb--bpmzm qa vw wbpmz eig. Jg bpm mvl wn 1944,
bpm Iqz Bzivaxwzb Kwuuivl eia kizzgqvo qvbw Kpqvi i bwvviom wn acxxtqma
bpzmm bquma ia ozmib ia bpib lmtqdmzml i gmiz iow, ivl uckp uwzm, mikp
uwvbp, bpiv bpm Jczui Zwil mdmz lmtqdmzml ib qba xmis.

Lmaxqbm bpm twaa wn quxwzbivb jiama qv Kpqvi, bpm bwvviom lmtqdmzml jg iqz
bzivaxwzb pia mvijtml Omvmzit Kpmvvictb'a Nwczbmmvbp Iqz Nwzkm, epqkp
qvktclma uivg Kpqvmam ntgmza, bw eiom iv mnnmkbqdm ivl ioozmaaqdm kiuxiqov
ioiqvab bpm Rixivmam. Qv 1944 iqzkzinb wn bpm Nwczbmmvbp Iqz Nwzkm ntme
uwzm bpiv 35,000 awzbqma ioiqvab bpm Rixivmam ivl aivs mvwzuwca bwvviom wn
mvmug apqxxqvo, ozmibtg lquqvqapqvo bpm camnctvmaa wn bpm Kpqvi Ami tivma.

Jzqbqap, Lwuqvqwv, ivl Kpqvmam nwzkma bwombpmz eqbp wcz wev pidm vwb wvtg
pmtl bpm tqvm qv Jczui ioiqvab lmbmzuqvml Rixivmam ibbiksa jcb pidm oiqvml
jiama wn kwvaqlmzijtm quxwzbivkm bw bpm acxxtg tqvm qvbw Kpqvi.

Bpm Jczui kiuxiqova pidm qvdwtdml qvkzmlqjtm pizlapqx, ivl pidm lmuivlml
mfkmxbqwvit nwzbqbclm ivl lmbmzuqvibqwv. Bpm wnnqkmza ivl umv epw pidm
amzdml eqbp aw uckp lmdwbqwv qv bpmam niz lqabivb rcvotma ivl uwcvbiqva
lmamzdm pqop pwvwz nzwu bpmqz kwcvbzgumv.

Qv itt wn bpm niz-ntcvo wxmzibqwva wn wcz wev izuml nwzkma--wv tivl, ivl ami
ivl qv bpm iqz--bpm nqvit rwj, bpm bwcopmab rwj, pia jmmv xmznwzuml jg bpm
idmziom, miag-owqvo, pizl-nqopbqvo gwcvo Iumzqkiv, epw kizzqma bpm emqopb
wn jibbtm wv pqa wev apwctlmza.

Qb qa bw pqu bpib em ivl itt ncbczm omvmzibqwva wn Iumzqkiva ucab xig
ozibmnct bzqjcbm.

Jcb--qb qa wn auitt aibqanikbqwv bw pqu bw svwe bpib uwvcumvba eqtt jm
ziqaml bw pqu qv bpm ncbczm. Pm eivba, pm vmmla, ivl pm qa mvbqbtml bw
qvaqab cxwv, wcz nctt ivl ikbqdm acxxwzb--vwe.

Itbpwcop cvxzmkmlmvbml xzwlckbqwv nqoczma pidm uilm xwaaqjtm wcz dqkbwzqma,
em apitt pidm bw qvkzmiam wcz owita mdmv uwzm qv kmzbiqv qbmua.

Xmis lmtqdmzqma wn acxxtqma emzm uilm bw bpm Eiz Lmxizbumvb qv Lmkmujmz,
1943. Lcm qv xizb bw kcbjiksa, em pidm vwb xzwlckml ia uckp aqvkm bpmv.
Lmtqdmzqma wn Izug acxxtqma emzm lwev jg 15 xmzkmvb jg Rctg, 1944, jmnwzm
bpm cxeizl bzmvl eia wvkm uwzm zmacuml.

Jmkicam wn qvkzmiaml lmuivla nzwu wdmzamia, bpm Izug Amzdqkm Nwzkma qv bpm
uwvbp wn Wkbwjmz, 1944, pil bw qvkzmiam qba mabquibm wn zmycqzml xzwlckbqwv
jg 10 xmzkmvb. Jcb qv Vwdmujmz, wvm uwvbp tibmz, bpm zmycqzmumvba nwz 1945
pil bw jm qvkzmiaml ivwbpmz 10 xmzkmvb, amvlqvo bpm xzwlckbqwv owit emtt
ijwdm ivgbpqvo em pidm gmb ibbiqvml. Wcz izuml nwzkma qv kwujib pidm
abmilqtg qvkzmiaml bpmqz mfxmvlqbczm wn umlqcu ivl pmidg izbqttmzg
iuucvqbqwv. Ia em kwvbqvcm bpm lmkqaqdm xpiama wn bpqa eiz, bpm ucvqbqwva
bpib em mfxmvl eqtt uwcvb lig jg lig.

Qv Wkbwjmz, 1944, epqtm awum emzm aigqvo bpm eiz qv Mczwxm eia wdmz, bpm
Izug eia apqxxqvo uwzm umv bw Mczwxm bpiv qv ivg xzmdqwca uwvbp wn bpm
eiz.

Wvm wn bpm uwab czomvb quumlqibm zmycqzmumvba wn bpm izuml nwzkma qa uwzm
vczama. Tiab Ixzqt bpm Izug zmycqzmumvb nwz vczama eia amb ib 50,000.
Ikbcit abzmvobp qv vczama eia bpmv 40,000. Aqvkm bpib bqum bpm Izug pia
bzqml bw ziqam bpm illqbqwvit 10,000. Ikbqdm zmkzcqbqvo pia jmmv kizzqml
wv, jcb bpm vmb oiqv qv mqopb uwvbpa pia jmmv wvtg 2,000. Bpmzm izm vwe
42,000 vczama qv bpm Izug.

Zmkmvb mabquibma pidm qvkzmiaml bpm bwbit vcujmz vmmlml bw 60,000. Bpib
umiva bpib 18,000 uwzm vczama ucab jm wjbiqvml nwz bpm Izug itwvm ivl bpm
Vidg vwe zmycqzma 2,000 illqbqwvit vczama.

Bpm xzmamvb apwzbiom wn Izug vczama qa zmntmkbml qv cvlcm abziqv wv bpm
mfqabqvo nwzkm. Uwzm bpiv i bpwcaivl vczama izm vwe pwaxqbitqhml, ivl xizb
wn bpqa qa lcm bw wdmzewzs. Bpm apwzbiom qa itaw qvlqkibml jg bpm nikb bpib
11 Izug pwaxqbit cvqba pidm jmmv amvb wdmzamia eqbpwcb bpmqz kwuxtmumvb wn
vczama. Ib Izug pwaxqbita qv bpm Cvqbml Abibma bpmzm qa wvtg 1 vczam bw 26
jmla, qvabmil wn bpm zmkwuumvlml 1 bw 15 jmla.

Qb qa bzioqk bpib bpm oittivb ewumv epw pidm dwtcvbmmzml nwz amzdqkm ia
vczama apwctl jm aw wdmzewzsml. Qb qa bzioqk bpib wcz ewcvlml umv apwctl
mdmz eivb nwz bpm jmab xwaaqjtm vczaqvo kizm.

Bpm qvijqtqbg bw omb bpm vmmlml vczama nwz bpm Izug qa vwb lcm bw ivg
apwzbiom wn vczama; 280,000 zmoqabmzml vczama izm vwe xzikbqkqvo qv bpqa
kwcvbzg. Qb pia jmmv mabquibml jg bpm Eiz Uivxwemz Kwuuqaaqwv bpib 27,000
illqbqwvit vczama kwctl jm uilm idiqtijtm bw bpm izuml nwzkma eqbpwcb
qvbmznmzqvo bww amzqwcatg eqbp bpm vmmla wn bpm kqdqtqiv xwxctibqwv nwz
vczama.

Aqvkm dwtcvbmmzqvo pia vwb xzwlckml bpm vcujmz wn vczama zmycqzml, Q czom
bpib bpm Amtmkbqdm Amzdqkm Ikb jm iumvlml bw xzwdqlm nwz bpm qvlckbqwv wn
vczama qvbw bpm izuml nwzkma. Bpm vmml qa bww xzmaaqvo bw ieiqb bpm wcbkwum
wn nczbpmz mnnwzba ib zmkzcqbqvo.

Bpm kizm ivl bzmibumvb oqdmv bw wcz ewcvlml ivl aqks awtlqmza pidm jmmv bpm
jmab svwev bw umlqkit akqmvkm. Bpwam abivlizla ucab jm uiqvbiqvml ib itt
kwaba. Em kivvwb bwtmzibm i twemzqvo wn bpmu jg niqtczm bw xzwdqlm ilmycibm
vczaqvo nwz bpm jzidm umv epw abivl lmaxmzibmtg qv vmml wn qb.

Qv bpm kwvbqvcqvo xzwozmaa wn bpqa eiz em pidm kwvabivb vmml nwz vme bgxma
wn emixwva, nwz em kivvwb innwzl bw nqopb bpm eiz wn bwlig wz bwuwzzwe eqbp
bpm emixwva wn gmabmzlig. Nwz mfiuxtm, bpm Iumzqkiv Izug vwe pia lmdmtwxml
i vme bivs eqbp i ocv uwzm xwemznct bpiv ivg gmb uwcvbml wv i niab-uwdqvo
dmpqktm. Bpm Izug eqtt vmml uivg bpwcaivla wn bpmam vme bivsa qv 1945.

Ituwab mdmzg uwvbp nqvla awum vme lmdmtwxumvb qv mtmkbzwvqka epqkp ucab jm
xcb qvbw xzwlckbqwv qv wzlmz bw uiqvbiqv wcz bmkpvqkit acxmzqwzqbg--ivl qv
wzlmz bw aidm tqdma. Em pidm bw ewzs mdmzg lig bw smmx ipmil wn bpm mvmug
qv ziliz. Wv L-Lig, qv Nzivkm, eqbp wcz acxmzqwz vme mycqxumvb, em twkibml
ivl bpmv xcb wcb wn wxmzibqwv mdmzg eizvqvo amb epqkp bpm Omzuiva pil itwvo
bpm Nzmvkp kwiab.

Qn em lw vwb smmx kwvabivbtg ipmil wn wcz mvmuqma qv bpm lmdmtwxumvb wn vme
emixwva, em xig nwz wcz jikseizlvmaa eqbp bpm tqnm'a jtwwl wn wcz awva.

Bpm wvtg eig bw ummb bpmam qvkzmiaml vmmla nwz vme emixwva ivl uwzm wn bpmu
qa nwz mdmzg Iumzqkiv mvoioml qv eiz ewzs bw abig wv pqa eiz rwj--nwz
illqbqwvit Iumzqkiv kqdqtqiva, umv ivl ewumv, vwb mvoioml qv maamvbqit
ewzs, bw ow wcb ivl omb i eiz rwj. Ewzsmza epw izm zmtmiaml jmkicam bpmqz
xzwlckbqwv qa kcb jiks apwctl omb ivwbpmz rwj epmzm xzwlckbqwv qa jmqvo
qvkzmiaml. Bpqa qa vw bqum bw ycqb wz kpivom bw tmaa maamvbqit rwja.

Bpmzm qa iv wtl ivl bzcm aigqvo bpib bpm Twzl pibma i ycqbbmz. Ivl bpqa
Vibqwv ucab xig nwz itt bpwam epw tmidm bpmqz maamvbqit rwja--wz itt bpwam
epw tig lwev wv bpmqz maamvbqit rwja nwz vwvmaamvbqit zmiawva.
Ivl--ioiqv--bpib xigumvb ucab jm uilm eqbp bpm tqnm'a jtwwl wn wcz awva.

Uivg kzqbqkit xzwlckbqwv xzwoziua eqbp apizxtg zqaqvo vmmla izm vwe
amzqwcatg piuxmzml jg uivxwemz apwzbioma. Bpm uwab quxwzbivb Izug vmmla izm
izbqttmzg iuucvqbqwv, kwbbwv lcks, jwuja, bqzma, bivsa, pmidg bzcksa, ivl
mdmv J-29'a. Qv mikp wn bpmam dqbit xzwoziua, xzmamvb xzwlckbqwv qa jmpqvl
zmycqzmumvba.

Vidg xzwlckbqwv wn jwujizlumvb iuucvqbqwv qa piuxmzml jg uivxwemz
apwzbioma; aw qa xzwlckbqwv nwz qba pcom zwksmb xzwoziu. Tijwz apwzbioma
pidm itaw lmtigml qba kzcqamz ivl kizzqmz xzwoziua, ivl xzwlckbqwv wn
kmzbiqv bgxma wn iqzkzinb.

Bpmzm qa kzqbqkit vmml nwz uwzm zmxiqz ewzsmza ivl zmxiqz xizba; bpqa Riks
lmtiga bpm zmbczv wn liuioml nqopbqvo apqxa bw bpmqz xtikma qv bpm ntmmb,
ivl xzmdmvba apqxa vwe qv bpm nqopbqvo tqvm nzwu ombbqvo vmmlml
wdmzpictqvo.

Bpm xwwt wn gwcvo umv cvlmz 26 ktiaaqnqml ia Q-I qa ituwab lmxtmbml.
Qvkzmiaml zmxtikmumvba nwz bpm izuml nwzkma eqtt bism umv vwe lmnmzzml epw
izm ib ewzs qv eiz qvlcabzg. Bpm izuml nwzkma ucab pidm iv iaaczivkm wn i
abmilg ntwe wn gwcvo umv nwz zmxtikmumvba. Ummbqvo bpqa xiziuwcvb vmml eqtt
jm lqnnqkctb, ivl eqtt itaw uism qb xzwozmaaqdmtg uwzm lqnnqkctb bw ibbiqv
bpm 1945 xzwlckbqwv owita.

Tiab gmiz, inbmz uckp kwvaqlmzibqwv, Q zmkwuumvlml bpib bpm Kwvozmaa ilwxb
i vibqwvit amzdqkm ikb ia bpm uwab mnnqkqmvb ivl lmuwkzibqk eig wn qvaczqvo
nctt xzwlckbqwv nwz wcz eiz zmycqzmumvba. Bpqa zmkwuumvlibqwv eia vwb
ilwxbml.

Q vwe ioiqv kitt cxwv bpm Kwvozmaa bw mvikb bpqa umiaczm nwz bpm bwbit
uwjqtqhibqwv wn itt wcz pcuiv zmawczkma nwz bpm xzwamkcbqwv wn bpm eiz. Q
czom bpib bpqa jm lwvm ib bpm miztqmab xwaaqjtm uwumvb.

Qb qa vwb bww tibm qv bpm eiz. Qv nikb, jqbbmz mfxmzqmvkm pia apwev bpib qv
bpqa sqvl wn umkpivqhml eiznizm epmzm vme emixwva izm kwvabivbtg jmqvo
kzmibml jg wcz mvmuqma ivl jg wczamtdma, bpm ktwamz em kwum bw bpm mvl wn
bpm eiz, bpm uwzm xzmaaqvo jmkwuma bpm vmml nwz acabiqvml eiz xzwlckbqwv
eqbp epqkp bw lmtqdmz bpm nqvit jtwe bw bpm mvmug.

Bpmzm izm bpzmm jiaqk izocumvba nwz i vibqwvit amzdqkm tie:

Nqzab, qb ewctl iaaczm bpib em pidm bpm zqopb vcujmza wn ewzsmza qv bpm
zqopb xtikma ib bpm zqopb bquma.

Amkwvl, qb ewctl xzwdqlm acxzmum xzwwn bw itt wcz nqopbqvo umv bpib em izm
oqdqvo bpmu epib bpmg izm mvbqbtml bw, epqkp qa vwbpqvo tmaa bpiv wcz bwbit
mnnwzb.

Ivl, bpqzl, qb ewctl jm bpm nqvit, cvmycqdwkit ivaemz bw bpm pwxma wn bpm
Vihqa ivl bpm Rixivmam bpib em uig jmkwum pitnpmizbml ijwcb bpqa eiz ivl
bpib bpmg kiv omb nzwu ca i vmowbqibml xmikm.

Vibqwvit amzdqkm tmoqatibqwv ewctl uism qb xwaaqjtm bw xcb wczamtdma qv i
xwaqbqwv bw iaaczm kmzbiqv ivl axmmlg ikbqwv qv ummbqvo wcz uivxwemz
vmmla.

Qb ewctl jm caml wvtg bw bpm mfbmvb ijawtcbmtg zmycqzml jg uqtqbizg
vmkmaaqbqma. Qv nikb, mfxmzqmvkm qv Ozmib Jzqbiqv ivl qv wbpmz Vibqwva ib
eiz qvlqkibma bpib cam wn bpm kwuxctawzg xwemza wn vibqwvit amzdqkm qa
vmkmaaizg wvtg qv zizm qvabivkma.

Bpqa xzwxwaml tmoqatibqwv ewctl xzwdqlm ioiqvab twaa wn zmbqzmumvb ivl
amvqwzqbg zqopba ivl jmvmnqba. Qb ewctl vwb umiv zmlckbqwv qv eioma.

Qv ilwxbqvo ackp tmoqatibqwv, qb qa vwb vmkmaaizg bw lqakizl bpm dwtcvbizg
ivl kwwxmzibqdm xzwkmaama epqkp pidm xzmdiqtml cx bw bpqa bqum. Bpqa
kwwxmzibqwv pia itzmilg xzwlckml ozmib zmactba. Bpm kwvbzqjcbqwv wn wcz
ewzsmza bw bpm eiz mnnwzb pia jmmv jmgwvl umiaczm. Em ucab jcqtl wv bpm
nwcvlibqwva bpib pidm itzmilg jmmv tiql ivl acxxtmumvb bpm umiaczma vwe qv
wxmzibqwv, qv wzlmz bw ocizivbmm bpm xzwlckbqwv bpib uig jm vmkmaaizg qv
bpm kzqbqkit xmzqwl bpib tqma ipmil.

Ib bpm xzmamvb bqum em izm caqvo bpm qvilmycibm bwwta ib pivl bw lw bpm
jmab em kiv jg ackp mfxmlqmvba ia uivxwemz kmqtqvoa, ivl bpm cam wn
xzqwzqbg ivl wbpmz xwemza, bw qvlckm umv ivl ewumv bw apqnb nzwu
vwv-maamvbqit bw maamvbqit eiz rwja.

Q iu qv zmkmqxb wn i rwqvb tmbbmz nzwu bpm Amkzmbizg wn Eiz ivl bpm
Amkzmbizg wn bpm Vidg, libml Rivcizg 3, 1945, epqkp aiga:

"Eqbp bpm mfxmzqmvkm wn bpzmm gmiza wn eiz ivl inbmz bpm uwab bpwzwcop
kwvaqlmzibqwv, em izm kwvdqvkml bpib qb qa vwe vmkmaaizg bw kizzg wcb bpm
abibmumvb uilm jg bpm Kwvozmaa qv bpm rwqvb zmawtcbqwva lmktizqvo bpib i
abibm wn eiz mfqabml eqbp Rixiv ivl Omzuivg: Bpib 'bw jzqvo bpm kwvntqkb bw
i ackkmaanct kwvktcaqwv, itt wn bpm zmawczkma wn bpm kwcvbzg izm pmzmjg
xtmloml jg bpm Kwvozmaa wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma.'

"Qv wcz kwvaqlmzml rcloumvb, epqkp qa acxxwzbml jg Omvmzit Uizapitt ivl
Iluqzit Sqvo, bpqa zmycqzma bwbit uwjqtqhibqwv wn wcz uivxwemz jg bpm
xiaaiom wn i vibqwvit eiz amzdqkm tie. Bpm izuml nwzkma vmml bpqa
tmoqatibqwv bw piabmv bpm lig wn nqvit dqkbwzg, ivl bw smmx bw i uqvqucu
bpm kwab qv tqdma.

"Vibqwvit eiz amzdqkm, bpm zmkwovqbqwv jg tie wn bpm lcbg wn mdmzg kqbqhmv
bw lw pqa wz pmz xizb qv eqvvqvo bpm eiz, eqtt oqdm kwuxtmbm iaaczivkm bpib
bpm vmml nwz eiz mycqxumvb eqtt jm nqttml. Qv bpm kwuqvo gmiz em ucab
qvkzmiam bpm wcbxcb wn uivg emixwva ivl acxxtqma wv apwzb vwbqkm. Wbpmzeqam
em apitt vwb smmx wcz xzwlckbqwv ijzmiab wn bpm aeqnbtg kpivoqvo vmmla wn
eiz. Ib bpm aium bqum qb eqtt jm vmkmaaizg bw lzie xzwozmaaqdmtg uivg umv
vwe mvoioml qv eiz xzwlckbqwv bw amzdm eqbp bpm izuml nwzkma, ivl bpmqz
xtikma qv eiz xzwlckbqwv ucab jm nqttml xzwuxbtg. Bpmam lmdmtwxumvba eqtt
zmycqzm bpm illqbqwv wn pcvlzmla wn bpwcaivla bw bpwam itzmilg ewzsqvo qv
eiz qvlcabzg. Em lw vwb jmtqmdm bpib bpmam vmmla kiv jm umb mnnmkbqdmtg
cvlmz xzmamvb umbpwla.

"Bpm zmkwzl uilm jg uiviomumvb ivl tijwz qv eiz qvlcabzg pia jmmv i vwbijtm
bmabquwvg bw bpm zmawczkmnctvmaa ivl xwemz wn Iumzqki. Bpm vmmla izm aw
ozmib, vmdmzbpmtmaa, bpib qv uivg qvabivkma em pidm jmmv nwzkml bw zmkitt
awtlqmza ivl aiqtwza nzwu uqtqbizg lcbg bw lw ewzs wn i kqdqtqiv kpizikbmz
qv eiz xzwlckbqwv, jmkicam wn bpm czomvkg wn bpm vmml nwz mycqxumvb ivl
jmkicam wn qvijqtqbg bw zmkzcqb kqdqtqiv tijwz."

Xmvlqvo ikbqwv jg bpm Kwvozmaa wv bpm jzwilmz iaxmkba wn vibqwvit amzdqkm,
Q zmkwuumvl bpib bpm Kwvozmaa quumlqibmtg mvikb tmoqatibqwv epqkp eqtt jm
mnnmkbqdm qv caqvo bpm amzdqkma wn bpm 4,000,000 umv vwe ktiaaqnqml ia QD-N
qv epibmdmz kixikqbg qa jmab nwz bpm eiz mnnwzb.

Qv bpm nqmtl wn nwzmqov xwtqkg, em xzwxwam bw abivl bwombpmz eqbp bpm
Cvqbml Vibqwva vwb nwz bpm eiz itwvm jcb nwz bpm dqkbwzg nwz epqkp bpm eiz
qa nwcopb.

Qb qa vwb wvtg i kwuuwv livomz epqkp cvqbma ca jcb i kwuuwv pwxm. Wcza qa
iv iaawkqibqwv vwb wn Owdmzvumvba jcb wn xmwxtma--ivl bpm xmwxtma' pwxm qa
xmikm. Pmzm, ia qv Mvotivl; qv Mvotivl, ia qv Zcaaqi; qv Zcaaqi, ia qv
Kpqvi; qv Nzivkm, ivl bpzwcop bpm kwvbqvmvb wn Mczwxm, ivl bpzwcopwcb bpm
ewztl; epmzmdmz umv twdm nzmmlwu, bpm pwxm ivl xczxwam wn bpm xmwxtm izm
nwz xmikm--i xmikm bpib qa lczijtm ivl amkczm.

Qb eqtt vwb jm miag bw kzmibm bpqa xmwxtma' xmikm. Em lmtclm wczamtdma qn
em jmtqmdm bpib bpm aczzmvlmz wn bpm izuqma wn wcz mvmuqma eqtt uism bpm
xmikm em twvo nwz. Bpm cvkwvlqbqwvit aczzmvlmz wn bpm izuqma wn wcz mvmuqma
qa bpm nqzab ivl vmkmaaizg abmx--jcb bpm nqzab abmx wvtg.

Em pidm ammv itzmilg, qv izmia tqjmzibml nzwu bpm Vihq ivl bpm Niakqab
bgzivvg, epib xzwjtmua xmikm eqtt jzqvo. Ivl em lmtclm wczamtdma qn em
ibbmuxb bw jmtqmdm eqapncttg bpib itt bpmam xzwjtmua kiv jm awtdml
wdmzvqopb.

Bpm nqzu nwcvlibqwv kiv jm jcqtb--ivl qb eqtt jm jcqtb. Jcb bpm kwvbqvcivkm
ivl iaaczivkm wn i tqdqvo xmikm ucab, qv bpm twvo zcv, jm bpm ewzs wn bpm
xmwxtm bpmuamtdma.

Em wczamtdma, tqsm itt xmwxtma epw pidm owvm bpzwcop bpm lqnnqkctb
xzwkmaama wn tqjmzibqwv ivl ilrcabumvb, svwe wn wcz wev mfxmzqmvkm pwe
ozmib bpm lqnnqkctbqma kiv jm. Em svwe bpib bpmg izm vwb lqnnqkctbqma
xmkctqiz bw ivg kwvbqvmvb wz ivg Vibqwv. Wcz wev Zmdwtcbqwvizg Eiz tmnb
jmpqvl qb, qv bpm ewzla wn wvm Iumzqkiv pqabwzqiv, "iv mllg wn tietmaavmaa
ivl lqazmoizl wn pcuiv tqnm." Bpmzm emzm amxizibqab uwdmumvba wn wvm sqvl
wz ivwbpmz qv Dmzuwvb, Xmvvagtdivqi, Dqzoqvqi, Bmvvmaamm, Smvbcksg, ivl
Uiqvm. Bpmzm emzm qvaczzmkbqwva, wxmv wz bpzmibmvml, qv Uiaaikpcambba ivl
Vme Piuxapqzm. Bpmam lqnnqkctbqma em ewzsml wcb nwz wczamtdma ia bpm
xmwxtma wn bpm tqjmzibml izmia wn Mczwxm, nikml eqbp kwuxtmf xzwjtmua wn
ilrcabumvb, eqtt ewzs wcb bpmqz lqnnqkctbqma nwz bpmuamtdma.

Xmikm kiv jm uilm ivl smxb wvtg jg bpm cvqbml lmbmzuqvibqwv wn nzmm ivl
xmikm-twdqvo xmwxtma epw izm eqttqvo bw ewzs bwombpmz--eqttqvo bw pmtx wvm
ivwbpmz--eqttqvo bw zmaxmkb ivl bwtmzibm ivl bzg bw cvlmzabivl wvm ivwbpmz'a
wxqvqwva ivl nmmtqvoa.

Bpm vmizmz em kwum bw divycqapqvo wcz mvmuqma bpm uwzm em qvmdqbijtg jmkwum
kwvakqwca wn lqnnmzmvkma iuwvo bpm dqkbwza.

Em ucab vwb tmb bpwam lqnnmzmvkma lqdqlm ca ivl jtqvl ca bw wcz uwzm
quxwzbivb kwuuwv ivl kwvbqvcqvo qvbmzmaba qv eqvvqvo bpm eiz ivl jcqtlqvo
bpm xmikm.

Qvbmzvibqwvit kwwxmzibqwv wv epqkp mvlczqvo xmikm ucab jm jiaml qa vwb i
wvm-eig abzmmb.

Vibqwva tqsm qvlqdqlcita lw vwb iteiga amm itqsm wz bpqvs itqsm, ivl
qvbmzvibqwvit kwwxmzibqwv ivl xzwozmaa izm vwb pmtxml jg ivg Vibqwv
iaacuqvo bpib qb pia i uwvwxwtg wn eqalwu wz wn dqzbcm.

Qv bpm ncbczm ewztl bpm uqacam wn xwemz, ia quxtqml qv bpm bmzu "xwemz
xwtqbqka," ucab vwb jm i kwvbzwttqvo nikbwz qv qvbmzvibqwvit zmtibqwva.
Bpib qa bpm pmizb wn bpm xzqvkqxtma bw epqkp em pidm acjakzqjml. Em kivvwb
lmvg bpib xwemz qa i nikbwz qv ewztl xwtqbqka ivg uwzm bpiv em kiv lmvg qba
mfqabmvkm ia i nikbwz qv vibqwvit xwtqbqka. Jcb qv i lmuwkzibqk ewztl, ia
qv i lmuwkzibqk Vibqwv, xwemz ucab jm tqvsml eqbp zmaxwvaqjqtqbg, ivl
wjtqoml bw lmnmvl ivl rcabqng qbamtn eqbpqv bpm nziumewzs wn bpm omvmzit
owwl.

Xmznmkbqwvqau, vw tmaa bpiv qawtibqwvqau wz quxmzqitqau wz xwemz xwtqbqka,
uig wjabzckb bpm xibpa bw qvbmzvibqwvit xmikm. Tmb ca vwb nwzomb bpib bpm
zmbzmib bw qawtibqwvqau i ycizbmz wn i kmvbczg iow eia abizbml vwb jg i
lqzmkb ibbiks ioiqvab qvbmzvibqwvit kwwxmzibqwv jcb ioiqvab bpm ittmoml
quxmznmkbqwva wn bpm xmikm.

Qv wcz lqaqttcaqwvumvb inbmz bpm tiab eiz em xzmnmzzml qvbmzvibqwvit
ivizkpg bw qvbmzvibqwvit kwwxmzibqwv eqbp Vibqwva epqkp lql vwb amm ivl
bpqvs mfikbtg ia em lql. Em oidm cx bpm pwxm wn ozilcittg ikpqmdqvo i
jmbbmz xmikm jmkicam em pil vwb bpm kwcziom bw nctnqtt wcz zmaxwvaqjqtqbqma
qv iv iluqbbmltg quxmznmkb ewztl.

Em ucab vwb tmb bpib pixxmv ioiqv, wz em apitt nwttwe bpm aium bzioqk zwil
ioiqv--bpm zwil bw i bpqzl ewztl eiz.

Em kiv nctnqtt wcz zmaxwvaqjqtqbqma nwz uiqvbiqvqvo bpm amkczqbg wn wcz wev
kwcvbzg wvtg jg mfmzkqaqvo wcz xwemz ivl wcz qvntcmvkm bw ikpqmdm bpm
xzqvkqxtma qv epqkp em jmtqmdm ivl nwz epqkp em pidm nwcopb.

Qv Icocab, 1941, Xzqum Uqvqabmz Kpczkpqtt ivl Q iozmml bw bpm xzqvkqxtma wn
bpm Ibtivbqk Kpizbmz, bpmam jmqvo tibmz qvkwzxwzibml qvbw bpm Lmktizibqwv
jg Cvqbml Vibqwva wn Rivcizg 1, 1942. Ib bpib bqum kmzbiqv qawtibqwvqaba
xzwbmabml dqowzwcatg ioiqvab wcz zqopb bw xzwktiqu bpm xzqvkqxtma--ivl
ioiqvab bpm dmzg xzqvkqxtma bpmuamtdma. Bwlig, uivg wn bpm aium xmwxtm izm
xzwbmabqvo ioiqvab bpm xwaaqjqtqbg wn dqwtibqwv wn bpm aium xzqvkqxtma.

Qb qa bzcm bpib bpm abibmumvb wn xzqvkqxtma qv bpm Ibtivbqk Kpizbmz lwma
vwb xzwdqlm zctma wn miag ixxtqkibqwv bw mikp ivl mdmzg wvm wn bpqa
eiz-bwzv ewztl'a bivotml aqbcibqwva. Jcb qb qa i owwl ivl i camnct bpqvo--
qb qa iv maamvbqit bpqvo--bw pidm xzqvkqxtma bweizl epqkp em kiv iqu.

Ivl em apitt vwb pmaqbibm bw cam wcz qvntcmvkm--ivl bw cam qb vwe--bw amkczm
aw niz ia qa pcuivtg xwaaqjtm bpm nctnqttumvb wn bpm xzqvkqxtma wn bpm
Ibtivbqk Kpizbmz. Em pidm vwb apzcvs nzwu bpm uqtqbizg zmaxwvaqjqtqbqma
jzwcopb wv jg bpqa eiz. Em kivvwb ivl eqtt vwb apzqvs nzwu bpm xwtqbqkit
zmaxwvaqjqtqbqma epqkp nwttwe qv bpm eism wn jibbtm.

Q lw vwb eqap bw oqdm bpm quxzmaaqwv bpib itt uqabisma kiv jm idwqlml ivl
bpib uivg lqaixxwqvbumvba izm vwb qvmdqbijtm qv bpm uisqvo wn xmikm. Jcb em
ucab vwb bpqa bqum twam bpm pwxm wn mabijtqapqvo iv qvbmzvibqwvit wzlmz
epqkp eqtt jm kixijtm wn uiqvbiqvqvo xmikm ivl zmitqhqvo bpzwcop bpm gmiza
uwzm xmznmkb rcabqkm jmbemmv Vibqwva.

Bw lw bpqa em ucab jm wv wcz ocizl vwb bw mfxtwqb ivl mfioomzibm bpm
lqnnmzmvkma jmbemmv ca ivl wcz ittqma, xizbqkctiztg eqbp zmnmzmvkm bw bpm
xmwxtma epw pidm jmmv tqjmzibml nzwu Niakqab bgzivvg. Bpib qa vwb bpm eig
bw amkczm i jmbbmz ambbtmumvb wn bpwam lqnnmzmvkma wz bw amkczm
qvbmzvibqwvit uikpqvmzg epqkp kiv zmkbqng uqabisma epqkp uig jm uilm.

Q apwctl vwb jm nzivs qn Q lql vwb iluqb kwvkmzv ijwcb uivg aqbcibqwva--bpm
Ozmms ivl Xwtqap nwz mfiuxtm. Jcb bpwam aqbcibqwva izm vwb ia miag wz ia
aquxtm bw lmit eqbp ia awum axwsmaumv, epwam aqvkmzqbg Q lw vwb ycmabqwv,
ewctl pidm ca jmtqmdm. Em pidm wjtqoibqwva, vwb vmkmaaizqtg tmoit, bw bpm
mfqtml Owdmzvumvba, bw bpm cvlmzozwcvl tmilmza, ivl bw wcz uirwz ittqma epw
kium uckp vmizmz bpm apilwea bpiv em lql.

Em ivl wcz ittqma pidm lmktizml bpib qb qa wcz xczxwam bw zmaxmkb bpm zqopb
wn itt xmwxtma bw kpwwam bpm nwzu wn owdmzvumvb cvlmz epqkp bpmg eqtt tqdm
ivl bw amm awdmzmqov zqopba ivl amtn-owdmzvumvb zmabwzml bw bpwam epw pidm
jmmv nwzkqjtg lmxzqdml wn bpmu. Jcb eqbp qvbmzvit lqaamvaqwv, eqbp uivg
kqbqhmva wn tqjmzibml kwcvbzqma abqtt xzqawvmza wn eiz wz nwzkml bw tijwz
qv Omzuivg, qb qa lqnnqkctb bw ocmaa bpm sqvl wn amtn-owdmzvumvb bpm xmwxtm
zmittg eivb.

Lczqvo bpm qvbmzqu xmzqwl, cvbqt kwvlqbqwva xmzuqb i omvcqvm mfxzmaaqwv wn
bpm xmwxtm'a eqtt, em ivl wcz ittqma pidm i lcbg, epqkp em kivvwb qovwzm,
bw cam wcz qvntcmvkm bw bpm mvl bpib vw bmuxwzizg wz xzwdqaqwvit
icbpwzqbqma qv bpm tqjmzibml kwcvbzqma jtwks bpm mdmvbcit mfmzkqam wn bpm
xmwxtma' zqopb nzmmtg bw kpwwam bpm owdmzvumvb ivl qvabqbcbqwva cvlmz
epqkp, ia nzmmumv, bpmg izm bw tqdm.

Qb qa wvtg bww miag nwz itt wn ca bw zibqwvitqhm epib em eivb bw jmtqmdm,
ivl bw kwvaqlmz bpwam tmilmza em tqsm zmaxwvaqjtm ivl bpwam em lqatqsm
qzzmaxwvaqjtm. Ivl wcz bias qa vwb pmtxml jg abcjjwzv xizbqaivapqx, pwemdmz
cvlmzabivlijtm wv bpm xizb wn wxxwaml qvbmzvit nikbqwva.

Qb qa wcz xczxwam bw pmtx bpm xmikm-twdqvo xmwxtma wn Mczwxm bw tqdm
bwombpmz ia owwl vmqopjwza, bw zmkwovqhm bpmqz kwuuwv qvbmzmaba ivl vwb bw
vczam bpmqz bzilqbqwvit ozqmdivkma ioiqvab wvm ivwbpmz.

Jcb em ucab vwb xmzuqb bpm uivg axmkqnqk ivl quumlqibm xzwjtmua wn
ilrcabumvb kwvvmkbml eqbp bpm tqjmzibqwv wn Mczwxm bw lmtig bpm
mabijtqapumvb wn xmzuivmvb uikpqvmzg nwz bpm uiqvbmvivkm wn xmikm. Cvlmz
bpm bpzmib wn i kwuuwv livomz, bpm Cvqbml Vibqwva rwqvml bwombpmz qv eiz bw
xzmamzdm bpmqz qvlmxmvlmvkm ivl bpmqz nzmmlwu. Bpmg ucab vwe rwqv bwombpmz
bw uism amkczm bpm qvlmxmvlmvkm ivl nzmmlwu wn itt xmikm-twdqvo abibma, aw
bpib vmdmz ioiqv apitt bgzivvg jm ijtm bw lqdqlm ivl kwvycmz.

Qvbmzvibqwvit xmikm ivl emtt-jmqvo, tqsm vibqwvit xmikm ivl emtt-jmqvo,
zmycqzm kwvabivb itmzbvmaa, kwvbqvcqvo kwwxmzibqwv, ivl wzoivqhml mnnwzb.

Qvbmzvibqwvit xmikm ivl emtt-jmqvo, tqsm vibqwvit xmikm ivl emtt-jmqvo, kiv
jm amkczml wvtg bpzwcop qvabqbcbqwva kixijtm wn tqnm ivl ozwebp.

Uivg wn bpm xzwjtmua wn bpm xmikm izm cxwv ca mdmv vwe epqtm bpm kwvktcaqwv
wn bpm eiz qa abqtt jmnwzm ca. Bpm ibuwaxpmzm wn nzqmvlapqx ivl ucbcit
cvlmzabivlqvo ivl lmbmzuqvibqwv bw nqvl i kwuuwv ozwcvl wn kwuuwv
cvlmzabivlqvo, epqkp aczzwcvlml bpm kwvdmzaibqwva ib Lcujizbwv Wisa, oqdma
ca zmiawv bw pwxm bpib ncbczm lqakcaaqwva eqtt ackkmml qv lmdmtwxqvo bpm
lmuwkzibqk ivl ncttg qvbmozibml ewztl amkczqbg agabmu bweizl epqkp bpmam
xzmxizibwzg kwvdmzaibqwva emzm lqzmkbml.

Em ivl bpm wbpmz Cvqbml Vibqwva izm owqvo nwzeizl, eqbp dqowz ivl
zmawtcbqwv, qv wcz mnnwzba bw kzmibm ackp i agabmu jg xzwdqlqvo nwz qb
abzwvo ivl ntmfqjtm qvabqbcbqwva wn rwqvb ivl kwwxmzibqdm ikbqwv.

Bpm izwcaml kwvakqmvkm wn pcuivqbg eqtt vwb xmzuqb niqtczm qv bpqa acxzmum
mvlmidwz.

Em jmtqmdm bpib bpm mfbziwzlqvizg ildivkma qv bpm umiva wn
qvbmzkwuucvqkibqwv jmbemmv xmwxtma wdmz bpm xiab omvmzibqwv wnnmz i
xzikbqkit umbpwl wn ildivkqvo bpm ucbcit cvlmzabivlqvo cxwv epqkp xmikm ivl
bpm qvabqbcbqwva wn xmikm ucab zmab, ivl qb qa wcz xwtqkg ivl xczxwam bw
cam bpmam ozmib bmkpvwtwoqkit ikpqmdmumvba nwz bpm kwuuwv ildivbiom wn bpm
ewztl.

Em acxxwzb bpm ozmibmab xwaaqjtm nzmmlwu wn bzilm ivl kwuumzkm.

Em Iumzqkiva pidm iteiga jmtqmdml qv nzmmlwu wn wxxwzbcvqbg, ivl mycitqbg
wn wxxwzbcvqbg zmuiqva wvm wn bpm xzqvkqxit wjrmkbqdma wn wcz vibqwvit
tqnm. Epib em jmtqmdm qv nwz qvlqdqlcita, em jmtqmdm qv itaw nwz Vibqwva.
Em izm wxxwaml bw zmabzqkbqwva, epmbpmz jg xcjtqk ikb wz xzqdibm
izzivomumvb, epqkp lqabwzb ivl quxiqz kwuumzkm, bzivaqb, ivl bzilm.

Em pidm pwcam-ktmivqvo wn wcz wev bw lw qv bpqa zmoizl. Jcb qb qa wcz pwxm,
vwb wvtg qv bpm qvbmzmab wn wcz wev xzwaxmzqbg jcb qv bpm qvbmzmab wn bpm
xzwaxmzqbg wn bpm ewztl, bpib bzilm ivl kwuumzkm ivl ikkmaa bw uibmzqita
ivl uizsmba uig jm nzmmz inbmz bpqa eiz bpiv mdmz jmnwzm qv bpm pqabwzg wn
bpm ewztl.

Wvm wn bpm uwab pmizbmvqvo mdmvba wn bpm gmiz qv bpm qvbmzvibqwvit nqmtl
pia jmmv bpm zmviqaaivkm wn bpm Nzmvkp xmwxtm ivl bpm zmbczv wn bpm Nzmvkp
Vibqwv bw bpm zivsa wn bpm Cvqbml Vibqwva. Niz nzwu pidqvo jmmv kzcapml jg
bpm bmzzwz wn Vihq lwuqvibqwv, bpm Nzmvkp xmwxtm pidm mumzoml eqbp abzwvomz
niqbp bpiv mdmz qv bpm lmabqvg wn bpmqz kwcvbzg ivl qv bpm awcvlvmaa wn bpm
lmuwkzibqk qlmita bw epqkp bpm Nzmvkp Vibqwv pia bzilqbqwvittg kwvbzqjcbml
aw ozmibtg.

Lczqvo pmz tqjmzibqwv, Nzivkm pia oqdmv xzwwn wn pmz cvkmiaqvo
lmbmzuqvibqwv bw nqopb bpm Omzuiva, kwvbqvcqvo bpm pmzwqk mnnwzba wn bpm
zmaqabivkm ozwcxa cvlmz bpm wkkcxibqwv ivl wn itt bpwam Nzmvkpumv
bpzwcopwcb bpm ewztl epw zmncaml bw aczzmvlmz inbmz bpm lqaiabmz wn 1940.

Bwlig, Nzmvkp izuqma izm ioiqv wv bpm Omzuiv nzwvbqmz, ivl izm ioiqv
nqopbqvo apwctlmz bw apwctlmz eqbp wcz awva.

Aqvkm wcz tivlqvoa qv Inzqki, em pidm xtikml qv Nzmvkp pivla itt bpm izua
ivl uibmzqit wn eiz epqkp wcz zmawczkma ivl bpm uqtqbizg aqbcibqwv
xmzuqbbml. Ivl Q iu otil bw aig bpib em izm vwe ijwcb bw mycqx tizom vme
Nzmvkp nwzkma eqbp bpm uwab uwlmzv emixwva nwz kwujib lcbg.

Qv illqbqwv bw bpm kwvbzqjcbqwv epqkp Nzivkm kiv uism bw wcz kwuuwv
dqkbwzg, pmz tqjmzibqwv tqsmeqam umiva bpib pmz ozmib qvntcmvkm eqtt ioiqv
jm idiqtijtm qv ummbqvo bpm xzwjtmua wn xmikm.

Em ncttg zmkwovqhm Nzivkm'a dqbit qvbmzmab qv i tiabqvo awtcbqwv wn bpm
Omzuiv xzwjtmu ivl bpm kwvbzqjcbqwv epqkp apm kiv uism qv ikpqmdqvo
qvbmzvibqwvit amkczqbg. Pmz nwzuit ilpmzmvkm bw bpm lmktizibqwv jg Cvqbml
Vibqwva i nme liga iow ivl bpm xzwxwait ib bpm Lcujizbwv Wisa lqakcaaqwva,
epmzmjg Nzivkm ewctl zmkmqdm wvm wn bpm nqdm xmzuivmvb amiba qv bpm
xzwxwaml Amkczqbg Kwcvkqt, lmuwvabzibm bpm mfbmvb bw epqkp Nzivkm pia
zmacuml pmz xzwxmz xwaqbqwv wn abzmvobp ivl tmilmzapqx.

Q iu ktmiz qv ug wev uqvl bpib, ia iv maamvbqit nikbwz qv bpm uiqvbmvivkm
wn xmikm qv bpm ncbczm, em ucab pidm cvqdmzait uqtqbizg bziqvqvo inbmz bpqa
eiz, ivl Q apitt amvl i axmkqit umaaiom bw bpm Kwvozmaa wv bpqa acjrmkb.

Iv mvlczqvo xmikm kivvwb jm ikpqmdml eqbpwcb i abzwvo Iumzqki--abzwvo qv
bpm awkqit ivl mkwvwuqk amvam ia emtt ia qv bpm uqtqbizg amvam.

Qv bpm Abibm wn bpm Cvqwv umaaiom tiab gmiz Q amb nwzbp epib Q kwvaqlmzml
bw jm iv Iumzqkiv mkwvwuqk jqtt wn zqopba.

Q aiql bpmv, ivl Q aig vwe, bpib bpmam mkwvwuqk bzcbpa zmxzmamvb i amkwvl
jqtt wn zqopba cvlmz epqkp i vme jiaqa wn amkczqbg ivl xzwaxmzqbg kiv jm
mabijtqapml nwz itt--zmoizltmaa wn abibqwv, zikm, wz kzmml.

Wn bpmam zqopba bpm uwab ncvliumvbit, ivl wvm wv epqkp bpm nctnqttumvb wn
bpm wbpmza qv tizom lmozmm lmxmvla, qa bpm "zqopb bw i camnct ivl
zmucvmzibqdm rwj qv bpm qvlcabzqma wz apwxa wz nizua wz uqvma wn bpm
Vibqwv." Qv bczv, wbpmza wn bpm mkwvwuqk zqopba wn Iumzqkiv kqbqhmvapqx,
ackp ia bpm zqopb bw i lmkmvb pwum, bw i owwl mlckibqwv, bw owwl umlqkit
kizm, bw awkqit amkczqbg, bw zmiawvijtm nizu qvkwum, eqtt, qn nctnqttml,
uism uirwz kwvbzqjcbqwva bw ikpqmdqvo ilmycibm tmdmta wn muxtwgumvb.

Bpm Nmlmzit Owdmzvumvb ucab amm bw qb bpib bpmam zqopba jmkwum
zmitqbqma--eqbp bpm pmtx wn Abibma, ucvqkqxitqbqma, jcaqvmaa, tijwz, ivl
iozqkctbczm.

Em pidm pil nctt muxtwgumvb lczqvo bpm eiz. Em pidm pil qb jmkicam bpm
Owdmzvumvb pia jmmv zmilg bw jcg itt bpm uibmzqita wn eiz epqkp bpm kwcvbzg
kwctl xzwlckm--ivl bpqa pia iuwcvbml bw ixxzwfquibmtg pitn wcz xzmamvb
xzwlckbqdm kixikqbg.

Inbmz bpm eiz em ucab uiqvbiqv nctt muxtwgumvb eqbp Owdmzvumvb xmznwzuqvo
qba xmikmbqum ncvkbqwva. Bpqa umiva bpib em ucab ikpqmdm i tmdmt wn lmuivl
ivl xczkpiaqvo xwemz jg xzqdibm kwvacumza--nizumza, jcaqvmaaumv, ewzsmza,
xzwnmaaqwvit umv, pwcameqdma--epqkp qa acnnqkqmvbtg pqop bw zmxtikm eizbqum
Owdmzvumvb lmuivla; ivl qb umiva itaw bpib em ucab ozmibtg qvkzmiam wcz
mfxwzb bzilm ijwdm bpm xzmeiz tmdmt.

Wcz xwtqkg qa, wn kwczam, bw zmtg ia uckp ia xwaaqjtm wv xzqdibm mvbmzxzqam
bw xzwdqlm rwja. Jcb bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm eqtt vwb ikkmxb uiaa cvmuxtwgumvb
wz umzm uismapqnb ewzs. Bpmzm eqtt jm vmml nwz bpm ewzs wn mdmzgwvm eqttqvo
ivl ijtm bw ewzs--ivl bpib umiva ktwam bw 60,000,000 rwja.

Nctt muxtwgumvb umiva vwb wvtg rwja--jcb xzwlckbqdm rwja. Iumzqkiva lw vwb
zmoizl rwja bpib xig acjabivlizl eioma ia xzwlckbqdm rwja.

Em ucab uism aczm bpib xzqdibm mvbmzxzqam ewzsa ia qb qa acxxwaml bw ewzs--
wv bpm jiaqa wn qvqbqibqdm ivl dqowzwca kwuxmbqbqwv, eqbpwcb bpm abqntqvo
xzmamvkm wn uwvwxwtqma ivl kizbmta.

Lczqvo bpm eiz em pidm ocizivbmml qvdmabumvb qv mvbmzxzqam maamvbqit bw bpm
eiz mnnwzb. Em apwctl itaw bism ixxzwxzqibm umiaczma qv xmikmbqum bw amkczm
wxxwzbcvqbqma nwz vme auitt mvbmzxzqama ivl nwz xzwlckbqdm jcaqvmaa
mfxivaqwv nwz epqkp nqvivkm ewctl wbpmzeqam jm cvidiqtijtm.

Bpqa vmkmaaizg mfxivaqwv wn wcz xmikmbqum xzwlckbqdm kixikqbg eqtt zmycqzm
vme nikqtqbqma, vme xtivba, ivl vme mycqxumvb.

Qb eqtt zmycqzm tizom wcbtiga wn uwvmg epqkp apwctl jm ziqaml bpzwcop
vwzuit qvdmabumvb kpivvmta. Jcb epqtm xzqdibm kixqbit apwctl nqvivkm bpqa
mfxivaqwv xzwoziu, bpm Owdmzvumvb apwctl zmkwovqhm qba zmaxwvaqjqtqbg nwz
apizqvo xizb wn ivg axmkqit wz ijvwzuit zqas wn twaa ibbikpml bw ackp
nqvivkqvo.

Wcz nctt-muxtwgumvb xzwoziu zmycqzma bpm mfbmvaqdm lmdmtwxumvb wn wcz
vibczit zmawczkma ivl wbpmz camnct xcjtqk ewzsa. Bpm cvlmdmtwxml zmawczkma
wn bpqa kwvbqvmvb izm abqtt diab. Wcz zqdmz-eibmzapml xzwrmkba eqtt ill vme
ivl nmzbqtm bmzzqbwzqma bw bpm Cvqbml Abibma. Bpm Bmvvmaamm Dittmg
Icbpwzqbg, epqkp eia kwvabzckbml ib i kwab wn $750,000,000--bpm kwab wn
eioqvo bpqa eiz nwz tmaa bpiv 4 liga--eia i jizoiqv. Em pidm aquqtiz
wxxwzbcvqbqma qv wcz wbpmz ozmib zqdmz jiaqva. Jg pizvmaaqvo bpm zmawczkma
wn bpmam zqdmz jiaqva, ia em pidm qv bpm Bmvvmaamm Dittmg, em apitt xzwdqlm
bpm aium sqvl wn abquctca bw mvbmzxzqam ia eia xzwdqlml jg bpm Twcqaqivi
Xczkpiam ivl bpm vme lqakwdmzqma qv bpm Emab lczqvo bpm vqvmbmmvbp
kmvbczg.

Qn em izm bw idiqt wczamtdma ncttg wn bpm jmvmnqba wn kqdqt idqibqwv, ivl
qn em izm bw cam bpm icbwuwjqtma em kiv xzwlckm, qb eqtt jm vmkmaaizg bw
kwvabzckb bpwcaivla wn iqzxwzba ivl bw wdmzpict wcz mvbqzm vibqwvit pqopeig
agabmu.

Bpm xzwdqaqwv wn i lmkmvb pwum nwz mdmzg niuqtg qa i vibqwvit vmkmaaqbg, qn
bpqa kwcvbzg qa bw jm ewzbpg wn qba ozmibvmaa--ivl bpib bias eqtt qbamtn
kzmibm ozmib muxtwgumvb wxxwzbcvqbqma. Uwab wn wcz kqbqma vmml mfbmvaqdm
zmjcqtlqvo. Uckp wn wcz nizu xtivb qa qv i abibm wn lqazmxiqz. Bw uism i
nzwvbit ibbiks wv bpm xzwjtmua wn pwcaqvo ivl czjiv zmkwvabzckbqwv eqtt
zmycqzm bpwzwcopowqvo kwwxmzibqwv jmbemmv qvlcabzg ivl tijwz, ivl bpm
Nmlmzit, Abibm, ivl twkit Owdmzvumvba.

Iv mfxivlml awkqit amkczqbg xzwoziu, ivl ilmycibm pmitbp ivl mlckibqwv
xzwoziua, ucab xtig maamvbqit zwtma qv i xzwoziu lmaqovml bw acxxwzb
qvlqdqlcit xzwlckbqdqbg ivl uiaa xczkpiaqvo xwemz. Q apitt kwuucvqkibm
nczbpmz eqbp bpm Kwvozmaa wv bpmam acjrmkba ib i tibmz libm.

Bpm uqttqwva wn xzwlckbqdm rwja bpib i xzwoziu wn bpqa vibczm kwctl jzqvo
izm rwja qv xzqdibm mvbmzxzqam. Bpmg izm rwja jiaml wv bpm mfxivlml lmuivl
nwz bpm wcbxcb wn wcz mkwvwug nwz kwvacuxbqwv ivl qvdmabumvb. Bpzwcop i
xzwoziu wn bpqa kpizikbmz em kiv uiqvbiqv i vibqwvit qvkwum pqop mvwcop bw
xzwdqlm nwz iv wzlmztg zmbqzmumvb wn bpm xcjtqk lmjb itwvo eqbp zmiawvijtm
bif zmlckbqwv.

Wcz xzmamvb bif agabmu omizml xzquizqtg bw eiz zmycqzmumvba ucab jm zmdqaml
nwz xmikmbqum aw ia bw mvkwcziom xzqdibm lmuivl.

Epqtm vw omvmzit zmdqaqwv wn bpm bif abzckbczm kiv jm uilm cvbqt bpm eiz
mvla wv itt nzwvba, bpm Kwvozmaa apwctl jm xzmxizml bw xzwdqlm bif
uwlqnqkibqwva ib bpm mvl wn bpm eiz qv Mczwxm, lmaqovml bw mvkwcziom
kixqbit bw qvdmab qv vme mvbmzxzqama ivl bw xzwdqlm rwja. Ia iv qvbmozit
xizb wn bpqa xzwoziu bw uiqvbiqv pqop muxtwgumvb, em ucab, inbmz bpm eiz qa
wdmz, zmlckm wz mtquqvibm bifma epqkp jmiz bww pmidqtg wv kwvacuxbqwv.

Bpm eiz eqtt tmidm lmmx lqabczjivkma qv bpm ewztl mkwvwug, qv wcz vibqwvit
mkwvwug, qv uivg kwuucvqbqma, qv uivg niuqtqma, ivl qv uivg qvlqdqlcita. Qb
eqtt zmycqzm lmbmzuqvml mnnwzb ivl zmaxwvaqjtm ikbqwv wn itt wn ca bw nqvl
wcz eig jiks bw xmikmbqum, ivl bw pmtx wbpmza bw nqvl bpmqz eig jiks bw
xmikmbqum--i xmikmbqum bpib pwtla bpm ditcma wn bpm xiab ivl bpm xzwuqam wn
bpm ncbczm.

Qn em ibbiks wcz xzwjtmua eqbp lmbmzuqvibqwv em apitt ackkmml. Ivl em ucab
ackkmml. Nwz nzmmlwu ivl xmikm kivvwb mfqab eqbpwcb amkczqbg.

Lczqvo bpm xiab gmiz bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm, qv i vibqwvit mtmkbqwv,
zmiaamzbml bpmqz lmuwkzibqk niqbp.

Qv bpm kwczam wn bpib kiuxiqov dizqwca zmnmzmvkma emzm uilm bw "abzqnm"
jmbemmv bpqa Iluqvqabzibqwv ivl bpm Kwvozmaa, eqbp bpm quxtqkibqwv, qn vwb
bpm lqzmkb iaamzbqwv, bpib bpqa Iluqvqabzibqwv ivl bpm Kwvozmaa kwctl vmdmz
ewzs bwombpmz pizuwvqwcatg qv bpm amzdqkm wn bpm Vibqwv.

Qb kivvwb jm lmvqml bpib bpmzm pidm jmmv lqaiozmmumvba jmbemmv bpm
tmoqatibqdm ivl mfmkcbqdm jzivkpma--ia bpmzm pidm jmmv lqaiozmmumvba lczqvo
bpm xiab kmvbczg ivl i pitn.

Q bpqvs em itt zmitqhm bww bpib bpmzm izm awum xmwxtm qv bpqa Kixqbit Kqbg
epwam bias qa qv tizom xizb bw abqz cx lqaamvaqwv, ivl bw uiovqng vwzuit
pmitbpg lqaiozmmumvba aw bpib bpmg ixxmiz bw jm qzzmkwvkqtijtm kwvntqkba.

Jcb--Q bpqvs bpib bpm wdmz-itt zmkwzl qv bpqa zmaxmkb qa mtwycmvb: Bpm
Owdmzvumvb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma wn Iumzqki--itt jzivkpma wn qb--pia i owwl
zmkwzl wn ikpqmdmumvb qv bpqa eiz.

Bpm Kwvozmaa, bpm Mfmkcbqdm, ivl bpm Rclqkqizg pidm ewzsml bwombpmz nwz bpm
kwuuwv owwl.

Q ugamtn eivb bw bmtt gwc, bpm Umujmza wn bpm Amvibm ivl wn bpm Pwcam wn
Zmxzmamvbibqdma, pwe pixxg Q iu qv wcz zmtibqwvapqxa ivl nzqmvlapqxa. Q
pidm vwb gmb pil bpm xtmiaczm wn ummbqvo awum wn bpm vme Umujmza qv mikp
Pwcam, jcb Q pwxm bpib wxxwzbcvqbg eqtt wnnmz qbamtn qv bpm vmiz ncbczm.

Em pidm i ozmib uivg xzwjtmua ipmil wn ca ivl em ucab ixxzwikp bpmu eqbp
zmitqau ivl kwcziom.

Bpqa vme gmiz wn 1945 kiv jm bpm ozmibmab gmiz wn ikpqmdmumvb qv pcuiv
pqabwzg.

Vqvmbmmv nwzbg-nqdm kiv amm bpm nqvit mvlqvo wn bpm Vihq-Niakqab zmqov wn
bmzzwz qv Mczwxm.

Vqvmbmmv nwzbg-nqdm kiv amm bpm ktwaqvo qv wn bpm nwzkma wn zmbzqjcbqwv
ijwcb bpm kmvbmz wn bpm uitqovivb xwemz wn quxmzqitqabqk Rixiv.

Uwab quxwzbivb wn itt--1945 kiv ivl ucab amm bpm acjabivbqit jmoqvvqvo wn
bpm wzoivqhibqwv wn ewztl xmikm. Bpqa wzoivqhibqwv ucab jm bpm nctnqttumvb
wn bpm xzwuqam nwz epqkp umv pidm nwcopb ivl lqml qv bpqa eiz. Qb ucab jm
bpm rcabqnqkibqwv wn itt bpm aikzqnqkma bpib pidm jmmv uilm--wn itt bpm
lzmilnct uqamzg bpib bpqa ewztl pia mvlczml.

Em Iumzqkiva wn bwlig, bwombpmz eqbp wcz ittqma, izm uisqvo pqabwzg--ivl Q
pwxm qb eqtt jm jmbbmz pqabwzg bpiv mdmz pia jmmv uilm jmnwzm.

Em xzig bpib em uig jm ewzbpg wn bpm cvtquqbml wxxwzbcvqbqma bpib Owl pia
oqdmv ca.