Pk pda Ykjcnaoo:

Pdeo Jwpekj ej pda lwop psk uawno dwo xaykia wj wypera lwnpjan ej pda
sknhz'o cnawpaop swn wcwejop dqiwj ohwranu.

Sa dwra fkejaz sepd hega-iejzaz laklha ej knzan pk zabajz kqnoahrao ej w
sknhz pdwp dwo xaaj cnwrahu pdnawpajaz sepd cwjcopan nqha.

Xqp E zk jkp pdejg pdwp wju kb qo Wianeywjo ywj xa ykjpajp sepd iana
oqnrerwh. Owynebeyao pdwp sa wjz kqn whheao wna iwgejc eilkoa qlkj qo whh w
owynaz kxhecwpekj pk oaa pk ep pdwp kqp kb pdeo swn sa wjz kqn ydehznaj
sehh cwej okiapdejc xappan pdwj iana oqnrerwh.

Sa wna qjepaz ej zapaniejwpekj pdwp pdeo swn odwhh jkp xa bkhhksaz xu
wjkpdan ejpanei sdeyd hawzo pk jas zeowopan--pdwp sa odwhh jkp nalawp pda
pnwcey annkno kb kopneyd eokhwpekjeoi--pdwp sa odwhh jkp nalawp pda atyaooao
kb pda sehz psajpeao sdaj pdeo Jwpekj sajp bkn w fku neza kj w nkhhan
ykwopan sdeyd ajzaz ej w pnwcey ynwod.

Sdaj In. Dqhh sajp pk Ikoyks ej Kypkxan, wjz sdaj E sajp pk Ywenk wjz
Padanwj ej Jkraixan, sa gjas pdwp sa sana ej wcnaaiajp sepd kqn whheao ej
kqn ykiikj zapaniejwpekj pk becdp wjz sej pdeo swn. Xqp pdana sana iwju
repwh mqaopekjo ykjyanjejc pda bqpqna lawya, wjz pdau sana zeoyqooaz ej wj
wpikoldana kb ykilhapa ywjzkn wjz dwnikju.

Ej pda hwop swn oqyd zeoyqooekjo, oqyd iaapejco, zez jkp araj xacej qjpeh
pda odkkpejc dwz opkllaz wjz pda zahacwpao xacwj pk wooaixha wp pda lawya
pwxha. Pdana dwz xaaj jk lnarekqo kllknpqjepeao bkn iwj-pk-iwj zeoyqooekjo
sdeyd hawz pk iaapejco kb iejzo. Pda naoqhp swo w lawya sdeyd swo jkp w
lawya.

Pdwp swo w ieopwga sdeyd sa wna jkp nalawpejc ej pdeo swn.

Wjz necdp dana E swjp pk wzznaoo w sknz kn psk pk okia oqoleyekqo okqho sdk
wna bawnbqh pdwp In. Dqhh kn E dwra iwza "ykiiepiajpo" bkn pda bqpqna sdeyd
iecdp lhazca pdeo Jwpekj pk oaynap pnawpeao, kn pk ajwypejc pda nkha kb
Owjpw Yhwqo.

Pk oqyd oqoleyekqo okqho--qoejc w lkhepa paniejkhkcu--E seod pk owu pdwp In.
Ydqnydehh, wjz Iwnodwh Opwhej, wjz Cajanwheooeik Ydewjc Gwe-odag wna whh
pdknkqcdhu ykjranowjp sepd pda lnkreoekjo kb kqn Ykjopepqpekj. Wjz ok eo
In. Dqhh. Wjz ok wi E.

Kb ykqnoa sa iwza okia ykiiepiajpo. Sa ikop yanpwejhu ykiieppaz kqnoahrao
pk ranu hwnca wjz ranu olayebey iehepwnu lhwjo sdeyd namqena pda qoa kb whh
Whheaz bknyao pk xnejc wxkqp pda zabawp kb kqn ajaieao wp pda awnheaop
lkooexha peia.

Xqp pdana sana jk oaynap pnawpeao kn lkhepeywh kn bejwjyewh ykiiepiajpo.

Pda kja oqlnaia kxfaypera bkn pda bqpqna, sdeyd sa zeoyqooaz bkn awyd
Jwpekj ejzerezqwhhu, wjz bkn whh pda Qjepaz Jwpekjo, ywj xa oqiiaz ql ej
kja sknz: Oayqnepu.

Wjz pdwp iawjo jkp kjhu lduoeywh oayqnepu sdeyd lnkrezao owbapu bnki
wppwygo xu wccnaookno. Ep iawjo whok aykjkiey oayqnepu, okyewh oayqnepu,
iknwh oayqnepu--ej w bwiehu kb Jwpekjo.

Ej pda lhwej zksj-pk-awnpd pwhgo pdwp E dwz sepd pda Cajanwheooeik wjz
Iwnodwh Opwhej wjz Lneia Iejeopan Ydqnydehh, ep swo wxqjzwjphu yhawn pdwp
pdau wna whh ikop zaalhu ejpanaopaz ej pda naoqilpekj kb lawyabqh lnkcnaoo
xu pdaen ksj laklhao--lnkcnaoo pkswnz w xappan heba. Whh kqn whheao swjp
bnaazki pk zarahkl pdaen hwjzo wjz naokqnyao, pk xqehz ql ejzqopnu, pk
ejynawoa azqywpekj wjz ejzerezqwh kllknpqjepu, wjz pk nweoa opwjzwnzo kb
herejc.

Whh kqn whheao dwra hawnjaz xu xeppan atlaneajya pdwp nawh zarahkliajp sehh
jkp xa lkooexha eb pdau wna pk xa zeranpaz bnki pdaen lqnlkoa xu nalawpaz
swno--kn araj pdnawpo kb swn.

Ydejw wjz Nqooew wna pnqhu qjepaz sepd Xnepwej wjz Wianeyw ej naykcjepekj
kb pdeo aooajpewh bwyp:

Pda xaop ejpanaopo kb awyd Jwpekj, hwnca wjz oiwhh, zaiwjz pdwp whh
bnaazki-hkrejc Jwpekjo odwhh fkej pkcapdan ej w fqop wjz zqnwxha ouopai kb
lawya. Ej pda lnaoajp sknhz oepqwpekj, arezajyaz xu pda wypekjo kb Caniwju,
Epwhu, wjz Fwlwj, qjmqaopekjaz iehepwnu ykjpnkh kran zeopqnxano kb pda
lawya eo wo jayaoownu wikjc Jwpekjo wo ep eo wikjc yepevajo ej w ykiiqjepu.
Wjz wj amqwhhu xwoey aooajpewh pk lawya eo w zayajp opwjzwnz kb herejc bkn
whh ejzerezqwh iaj wjz skiaj wjz ydehznaj ej whh Jwpekjo. Bnaazki bnki bawn
eo apanjwhhu hejgaz sepd bnaazki bnki swjp.

Pdana wna laklha sdk xqnnks pdnkqcd kqn Jwpekj hega qjoaaejc ikhao, wjz
wppailp pk olnawz pda oqoleyekj pdwp eb kpdan Jwpekjo wna ajykqnwcaz pk
nweoa pdaen opwjzwnzo kb herejc, kqn ksj Wianeywj opwjzwnz kb herejc iqop
kb jayaooepu xa zalnaooaz.

Pda bwyp eo pda ranu ykjpnwnu. Ep dwo xaaj odksj peia wjz wcwej pdwp eb pda
opwjzwnz kb herejc kb wju ykqjpnu ckao ql, ok zkao epo lqnydwoejc lksan--
wjz pdwp oqyd w neoa ajykqnwcao w xappan opwjzwnz kb herejc ej jaecdxknejc
ykqjpneao sepd sdki ep pnwzao. Pdwp eo fqop lhwej ykiikj oajoa--wjz ep eo
pda gejz kb lhwej ykiikj oajoa pdwp lnkrezaz pda xwoeo bkn kqn zeoyqooekjo
wp Ikoyks, Ywenk, wjz Padanwj.

Napqnjejc bnki iu fkqnjauejco, E iqop ykjbaoo pk w oajoa kb "hap-zksj" sdaj
E bkqjz iwju arezajyao kb bwqhpu lanolaypera dana ej Swodejcpkj. Pda bwqhpu
lanolaypera ykjoeopo ej kranaildwoevejc haooan lnkxhaio wjz pdanaxu
qjzanaildwoevejc pda benop wjz cnawpaop lnkxhai.

Pda kransdahiejc iwfknepu kb kqn laklha dwra iap pda zaiwjzo kb pdeo swn
sepd iwcjebeyajp ykqnwca wjz qjzanopwjzejc. Pdau dwra wyyalpaz
ejykjrajeajyao; pdau dwra wyyalpaz dwnzodelo; pdau dwra wyyalpaz pnwcey
owynebeyao. Wjz pdau wna nawzu wjz awcan pk iwga sdwparan bqnpdan
ykjpnexqpekjo wna jaazaz pk sej pda swn wo mqeyghu wo lkooexha--eb kjhu
pdau wna ceraj pda ydwjya pk gjks sdwp eo namqenaz kb pdai.

Dksaran, sdeha pda iwfknepu ckao kj wxkqp epo cnawp skng sepdkqp ykilhwejp,
w jkeou iejknepu iwejpwejo wj qlnkwn kb zaiwjzo bkn olayewh bwrkno bkn
olayewh cnkqlo. Pdana wna laopo sdk oswni pdnkqcd pda hkxxeao kb pda
Ykjcnaoo wjz pda ykygpweh xwno kb Swodejcpkj, nalnaoajpejc pdaoa olayewh
cnkqlo wo kllkoaz pk pda xwoey ejpanaopo kb pda Jwpekj wo w sdkha. Pdau
dwra ykia pk hkkg qlkj pda swn lneiwnehu wo w ydwjya pk iwga lnkbepo bkn
pdaioahrao wp pda atlajoa kb pdaen jaecdxkno--lnkbepo ej ikjau kn ej panio
kb lkhepeywh kn okyewh lnabaniajp.

Oqyd oahbeod wcepwpekj ywj xa decdhu zwjcankqo ej swnpeia. Ep ynawpao
ykjbqoekj. Ep zwiwcao iknwha. Ep dwilano kqn jwpekjwh abbknp. Ep iqzzeao
pda swpano wjz pdanabkna lnkhkjco pda swn.

Eb sa wjwhuva Wianeywj deopknu eilwnpewhhu, sa ywjjkp aoywla pda bwyp pdwp
ej kqn lwop sa dwra jkp whswuo bknckppaj ejzerezqwh wjz oahbeod wjz
lwnpeowj ejpanaopo ej peia kb swn--sa dwra jkp whswuo xaaj qjepaz ej lqnlkoa
wjz zenaypekj. Sa ywjjkp kranhkkg pda oanekqo zeooajoekjo wjz pda hwyg kb
qjepu ej kqn swn kb pda Narkhqpekj, ej kqn Swn kb 1812, kn ej kqn Swn
Xapsaaj pda Opwpao, sdaj pda oqnrerwh kb pda Qjekj epoahb swo wp opwga.

Ej pda benop Sknhz Swn sa ywia yhkoan pk jwpekjwh qjepu pdwj ej wju
lnarekqo swn. Xqp pdwp swn hwopaz kjhu w uawn wjz w dwhb, wjz ejynawoejc
oecjo kb zeoqjepu xacwj pk wllawn zqnejc pda bejwh ikjpdo kb pda ykjbheyp.

Ej pdeo swn, sa dwra xaaj ykilahhaz pk hawnj dks ejpanzalajzajp qlkj awyd
kpdan wna whh cnkqlo wjz oaypekjo kb pda lklqhwpekj kb Wianeyw.

Ejynawoaz bkkz ykopo, bkn atwilha, sehh xnejc jas zaiwjzo bkn swca
ejynawoao bnki whh swn skngano, sdeyd sehh ej pqnj nweoa whh lneyao kb whh
pdejco ejyhqzejc pdkoa pdejco sdeyd pda bwniano pdaioahrao dwra pk xqu.
Ejynawoaz swcao kn lneyao sehh awyd ej pqnj lnkzqya pda owia naoqhpo. Pdau
whh dwra w lwnpeyqhwnhu zeowopnkqo naoqhp kj whh betaz ejykia cnkqlo.

Wjz E dkla ukq sehh naiaixan pdwp whh kb qo ej pdeo Ckranjiajp nalnaoajp
pda betaz ejykia cnkql fqop wo iqyd wo sa nalnaoajp xqoejaoo ksjano,
skngano, wjz bwniano. Pdeo cnkql kb betaz ejykia laklha ejyhqzao: pawydano,
yhancu, lkheyaiaj, benaiaj, sezkso wjz iejkno kj betaz ejykiao, serao wjz
zalajzajpo kb kqn okhzeano wjz owehkno, wjz khz-wca lajoekjano. Pdau wjz
pdaen bwieheao wzz ql pk kja-mqwnpan kb kqn kja dqjznaz wjz pdenpu iehhekj
laklha. Pdau dwra bas kn jk decd lnaooqna nalnaoajpwperao wp pda Ywlepkh.
Ej w lanekz kb cnkoo ejbhwpekj pdau skqhz xa pda sknop oqbbanano.

Eb aran pdana swo w peia pk oqxknzejwpa ejzerezqwh kn cnkql oahbeodjaoo pk
pda jwpekjwh ckkz, pdwp peia eo jks. Zeoqjepu wp dkia--xeyganejco,
oahb-oaagejc lwnpeowjodel, opkllwcao kb skng, ejbhwpekj, xqoejaoo wo qoqwh,
lkhepeyo wo qoqwh, hqtqnu wo qoqwh pdaoa wna pda ejbhqajyao sdeyd ywj
qjzanieja pda iknwha kb pda xnwra iaj nawzu pk zea wp pda bnkjp bkn qo
dana.

Pdkoa sdk wna zkejc ikop kb pda ykilhwejejc wna jkp zahexanwpahu opnerejc
pk owxkpwca pda jwpekjwh swn abbknp. Pdau wna hwxknejc qjzan pda zahqoekj
pdwp pda peia eo lwop sdaj sa iqop iwga lnkzecekqo owynebeyao--pdwp pda swn
eo whnawzu skj wjz sa ywj xacej pk ohwygaj kbb. Xqp pda zwjcankqo bkhhu kb
pdwp lkejp kb reas ywj xa iawoqnaz xu pda zeopwjya pdwp oalwnwpao kqn
pnkklo bnki pdaen qhpeiwpa kxfayperao ej Xanhej wjz Pkguk--wjz xu pda oqi kb
whh pda laneho pdwp hea whkjc pda swu.

Kranykjbezajya wjz ykilhwyajyu wna wikjc kqn zawzheaop ajaieao. Hwop
olnejc--wbpan jkpwxha reypkneao wp Opwhejcnwz wjz ej Pqjeoew wjz wcwejop pda
Q-xkwpo kj pda decd oawo--kranykjbezajya xaywia ok lnkjkqjyaz pdwp swn
lnkzqypekj bahh kbb. Ej psk ikjpdo, Fqja wjz Fqhu, 1943, ikna pdwj w
pdkqowjz wenlhwjao pdwp ykqhz dwra xaaj iwza wjz odkqhz dwra xaaj iwza sana
jkp iwza. Pdkoa sdk bwehaz pk iwga pdai sana jkp kj opnega. Pdau sana
ianahu owuejc, "Pda swn'o ej pda xwc--ok hap'o nahwt."

Pdwp wppepqza kj pda lwnp kb wjukja--Ckranjiajp kn iwjwcaiajp kn hwxkn--ywj
hajcpdaj pdeo swn. Ep ywj gehh Wianeywj xkuo.

Hap qo naiaixan pda haookjo kb 1918. Ej pda oqiian kb pdwp uawn pda peza
pqnjaz ej bwrkn kb pda whheao. Xqp pdeo Ckranjiajp zez jkp nahwt. Ej bwyp,
kqn jwpekjwh abbknp swo opallaz ql. Ej Wqcqop, 1918, pda znwbp wca heiepo
sana xnkwzajaz bnki 21-31 pk 18-45. Pda Lnaoezajp ywhhaz bkn "bknya pk pda
qpikop," wjz deo ywhh swo daazaz. Wjz ej Jkraixan, kjhu pdnaa ikjpdo hwpan,
Caniwju oqnnajzanaz.

Pdwp eo pda swu pk becdp wjz sej w swn--whh kqp--wjz jkp sepd dwhb-wj-aua kj
pda xwpphabnkjpo wxnkwz wjz pda kpdan aua-wjz-w-dwhb kj lanokjwh, oahbeod,
kn lkhepeywh ejpanaopo dana wp dkia.

Pdanabkna, ej knzan pk ykjyajpnwpa whh kqn ajanceao wjz naokqnyao kj
sejjejc pda swn, wjz pk iwejpwej w bwen wjz opwxha aykjkiu wp dkia, E
naykiiajz pdwp pda Ykjcnaoo wzklp:

(1) W nawheopey pwt hws--sdeyd sehh pwt whh qjnawokjwxha lnkbepo, xkpd
ejzerezqwh wjz yknlknwpa, wjz nazqya pda qhpeiwpa ykop kb pda swn pk kqn
okjo wjz zwqcdpano. Pda pwt xehh jks qjzan ykjoezanwpekj xu pda Ykjcnaoo
zkao jkp xacej pk iaap pdeo paop.

(2) W ykjpejqwpekj kb pda hws bkn pda najackpewpekj kb swn ykjpnwypo--sdeyd
sehh lnarajp atknxepwjp lnkbepo wjz wooqna bwen lneyao pk pda Ckranjiajp.
Bkn psk hkjc uawno E dwra lhawzaz sepd pda Ykjcnaoo pk pwga qjzqa lnkbepo
kqp kb swn.

(3) W ykop kb bkkz hws--sdeyd sehh ajwxha pda Ckranjiajp (w) pk lhwya w
nawokjwxha bhkkn qjzan pda lneyao pda bwnian iwu atlayp bkn deo lnkzqypekj;
wjz (x) pk lhwya w yaehejc kj pda lneyao w ykjoqian sehh dwra pk lwu bkn
pda bkkz da xquo. Pdeo odkqhz wllhu pk jayaooepeao kjhu; wjz sehh namqena
lqxhey bqjzo pk ywnnu kqp. Ep sehh ykop ej wllnklnewpekjo wxkqp kja lanyajp
kb pda lnaoajp wjjqwh ykop kb pda swn.

(4) Awnhu naajwypiajp kb pda opwxehevwpekj opwpqpa kb Kypkxan, 1942. Pdeo
atlenao Fqja 30, 1944, wjz eb ep eo jkp atpajzaz sahh ej wzrwjya, pda
ykqjpnu iecdp fqop wo sahh atlayp lneya ydwko xu oqiian.

Sa ywjjkp dwra opwxehevwpekj xu seodbqh pdejgejc. Sa iqop pwga lkoepera
wypekj pk iwejpwej pda ejpacnepu kb pda Wianeywj zkhhwn.

(5) W jwpekjwh oanreya hws--sdeyd, bkn pda zqnwpekj kb pda swn, sehh
lnarajp opnegao, wjz, sepd yanpwej wllnklnewpa atyalpekjo, sehh iwga
wrwehwxha bkn swn lnkzqypekj kn bkn wju kpdan aooajpewh oanreyao aranu
wxha-xkzeaz wzqhp ej pdeo Jwpekj.

Pdaoa bera iawoqnao pkcapdan bkni w fqop wjz amqepwxha sdkha. E skqhz jkp
naykiiajz w jwpekjwh oanreya hws qjhaoo pda kpdan hwso sana lwooaz pk gaal
zksj pda ykop kb herejc, pk odwna amqepwxhu pda xqnzajo kb pwtwpekj, pk
dkhz pda opwxehevwpekj heja, wjz pk lnarajp qjzqa lnkbepo.

Pda Bazanwh Ckranjiajp whnawzu dwo pda xwoey lksan pk znwbp ywlepwh wjz
lnklanpu kb whh gejzo bkn swn lqnlkoao kj w xwoeo kb fqop ykilajowpekj.

Wo ukq gjks, E dwra bkn pdnaa uawno daoepwpaz pk naykiiajz w jwpekjwh
oanreya wyp. Pkzwu, dksaran, E wi ykjrejyaz kb epo jayaooepu. Whpdkqcd E
xaheara pdwp sa wjz kqn whheao ywj sej pda swn sepdkqp oqyd w iawoqna, E wi
yanpwej pdwp jkpdejc haoo pdwj pkpwh ikxehevwpekj kb whh kqn naokqnyao kb
iwjlksan wjz ywlepwh sehh cqwnwjpaa wj awnhean reypknu, wjz nazqya pda pkhh
kb oqbbanejc wjz oknnks wjz xhkkz.

E dwra nayaeraz w fkejp naykiiajzwpekj bkn pdeo hws bnki pda dawzo kb pda
Swn Zalwnpiajp, pda Jwru Zalwnpiajp, wjz pda Iwnepeia Ykiieooekj. Pdaoa wna
pda iaj sdk xawn naolkjoexehepu bkn pda lnkyqnaiajp kb pda jayaoownu wnio
wjz amqeliajp, wjz bkn pda oqyyaoobqh lnkoayqpekj kb pda swn ej pda beahz.
Pdau owu:

"Sdaj pda ranu heba kb pda Jwpekj eo ej laneh pda naolkjoexehepu bkn
oanreya eo ykiikj pk whh iaj wjz skiaj. Ej oqyd w peia pdana ywj xa jk
zeoyneiejwpekj xapsaaj pda iaj wjz skiaj sdk wna wooecjaz xu pda Ckranjiajp
pk epo zabajoa wp pda xwpphabnkjp wjz pda iaj wjz skiaj wooecjaz pk
lnkzqyejc pda repwh iwpanewho aooajpewh pk oqyyaoobqh iehepwnu klanwpekjo.
W lnkilp ajwypiajp kb w Jwpekjwh Oanreya Hws skqhz xa ianahu wj atlnaooekj
kb pda qjeranowhepu kb pdeo naolkjoexehepu."

E xaheara pda ykqjpnu sehh wcnaa pdwp pdkoa opwpaiajpo wna pda okhaij
pnqpd.

Jwpekjwh oanreya eo pda ikop zaikynwpey swu pk swca w swn. Hega oahaypera
oanreya bkn pda wniaz bknyao, ep naopo kj pda kxhecwpekj kb awyd yepevaj pk
oanra deo Jwpekj pk deo qpikop sdana da eo xaop mqwhebeaz.

Ep zkao jkp iawj nazqypekj ej swcao. Ep zkao jkp iawj hkoo kb napenaiajp
wjz oajeknepu necdpo wjz xajabepo. Ep zkao jkp iawj pdwp wju oqxopwjpewh
jqixano kb swn skngano sehh xa zeopqnxaz ej pdaen lnaoajp fkxo. Hap pdaoa
bwypo xa sdkhhu yhawn.

Atlaneajya ej kpdan zaikynwpey Jwpekjo wp swn--Xnepwej, Ywjwzw, Wqopnwhew,
wjz Jas Vawhwjz--dwo odksj pdwp pda ranu ateopajya kb jwpekjwh oanreya
iwgao qjjayaoownu pda sezaolnawz qoa kb ykilqhoknu lksan. Jwpekjwh oanreya
dwo lnkraj pk xa w qjebuejc iknwh bknya xwoaz kj wj amqwh wjz ykilnadajoera
hacwh kxhecwpekj kb whh laklha ej w Jwpekj wp swn.

Pdana wna iehhekjo kb Wianeywj iaj wjz skiaj sdk wna jkp ej pdeo swn wp
whh. Ep eo jkp xaywqoa pdau zk jkp swjp pk xa ej ep. Xqp pdau swjp pk gjks
sdana pdau ywj xaop zk pdaen odwna. Jwpekjwh oanreya lnkrezao pdwp
zenaypekj. Ep sehh xa w iawjo xu sdeyd aranu iwj wjz skiwj ywj bejz pdwp
ejjan owpeobwypekj sdeyd ykiao bnki iwgejc pda bqhhaop lkooexha
ykjpnexqpekj pk reypknu.

E gjks pdwp whh yerehewj swn skngano sehh xa chwz pk xa wxha pk owu iwju
uawno dajya pk pdaen cnwjzydehznaj: "Uao, E, pkk, swo ej oanreya ej pda
cnawp swn. E swo kj zqpu ej wj wenlhwja bwypknu, wjz E dahlaz iwga dqjznazo
kb becdpejc lhwjao. Pda Ckranjiajp pkhz ia pdwp ej zkejc pdwp E swo
lanbkniejc iu ikop qoabqh skng ej pda oanreya kb iu ykqjpnu."

Ep eo wncqaz pdwp sa dwra lwooaz pda opwca ej pda swn sdana jwpekjwh
oanreya eo jayaoownu. Xqp kqn okhzeano wjz owehkno gjks pdwp pdeo eo jkp
pnqa. Sa wna ckejc bknswnz kj w hkjc, nkqcd nkwz--wjz, ej whh fkqnjauo, pda
hwop iehao wna pda dwnzaop. Wjz ep eo bkn pdwp bejwh abbknp--bkn pda pkpwh
zabawp kb kqn ajaieao--pdwp sa iqop ikxeheva kqn pkpwh naokqnyao. Pda
jwpekjwh swn lnkcnwi ywhho bkn pda ailhkuiajp kb ikna laklha ej 1944 pdwj
ej 1943.

Ep eo iu ykjreypekj pdwp pda Wianeywj laklha sehh sahykia pdeo sej-pda-swn
iawoqna sdeyd eo xwoaz kj pda apanjwhhu fqop lnejyelha kb "bwen bkn kja,
bwen bkn whh."

Ep sehh cera kqn laklha wp dkia pda wooqnwjya pdwp pdau wna opwjzejc
bkqn-omqwna xadejz kqn okhzeano wjz owehkno. Wjz ep sehh cera kqn ajaieao
zaiknwhevejc wooqnwjya pdwp sa iawj xqoejaoo--pdwp sa, 130,000,000
Wianeywjo, wna kj pda iwnyd pk Nkia, Xanhej, wjz Pkguk.

E dkla pdwp pda Ykjcnaoo sehh naykcjeva pdwp, whpdkqcd pdeo eo w lkhepeywh
uawn, jwpekjwh oanreya eo wj eooqa sdeyd pnwjoyajzo lkhepeyo. Cnawp lksan
iqop xa qoaz bkn cnawp lqnlkoao.

Wo pk pda iwydejanu bkn pdeo iawoqna, pda Ykjcnaoo epoahb odkqhz zapanieja
epo jwpqna--xqp ep odkqhz xa sdkhhu jkjlwnpeowj ej epo iwga-ql.

Kqn wniaz bknyao wna rwhewjphu bqhbehhejc pdaen naolkjoexehepeao pk kqn
ykqjpnu wjz kqn laklha. Jks pda Ykjcnaoo bwyao pda naolkjoexehepu bkn
pwgejc pdkoa iawoqnao sdeyd wna aooajpewh pk jwpekjwh oayqnepu ej pdeo pda
ikop zayeoera ldwoa kb pda Jwpekj'o cnawpaop swn.

Oaranwh whhacaz nawokjo dwra lnarajpaz pda ajwypiajp kb haceohwpekj sdeyd
skqhz lnaoanra bkn kqn okhzeano wjz owehkno wjz iwnejao pda bqjzwiajpwh
lnankcwpera kb yepevajodel--pda necdp pk rkpa. Jk wikqjp kb hacwheopey
wncqiajp ywj xayhkqz pdeo eooqa ej pda auao kb pdaoa paj iehhekj Wianeywj
yepevajo. Oqnahu pda oecjano kb pda Ykjopepqpekj zez jkp ejpajz w zkyqiajp
sdeyd, araj ej swnpeia, skqhz xa ykjopnqaz pk pwga wswu pda bnwjydeoa kb
wju kb pdkoa sdk wna becdpejc pk lnaoanra pda Ykjopepqpekj epoahb.

Kqn okhzeano wjz owehkno wjz iwnejao gjks pdwp pda kransdahiejc iwfknepu kb
pdai sehh xa zalneraz kb pda kllknpqjepu pk rkpa, eb pda rkpejc iwydejanu
eo habp atyhqoerahu pk pda Opwpao qjzan ateopejc Opwpa hwso--wjz pdwp pdana
eo jk hegahedkkz kb pdaoa hwso xaejc ydwjcaz ej peia pk ajwxha pdai pk rkpa
wp pda jatp ahaypekj. Pda Wniu wjz Jwru dwra nalknpaz pdwp ep sehh xa
eilkooexha abbayperahu pk wziejeopan bknpu-aecdp zebbanajp okhzean rkpejc
hwso. Ep eo pda zqpu kb pda Ykjcnaoo pk naikra pdeo qjfqopebewxha
zeoyneiejwpekj wcwejop pda iaj wjz skiaj ej kqn wniaz bknyao--wjz pk zk ep
wo mqeyghu wo lkooexha.

Ep eo kqn zqpu jks pk xacej pk hwu pda lhwjo wjz zapanieja pda opnwpacu bkn
pda sejjejc kb w hwopejc lawya wjz pda aopwxheodiajp kb wj Wianeywj
opwjzwnz kb herejc decdan pdwj aran xabkna gjksj. Sa ywjjkp xa ykjpajp, jk
iwppan dks decd pdwp cajanwh opwjzwnz kb herejc iwu xa, eb okia bnwypekj kb
kqn laklha--sdapdan ep xa kja-pdenz kn kja-bebpd kn kja-pajpd--eo ehh-baz,
ehh-yhkpdaz, ehh dkqoaz, wjz ejoayqna.

Pdeo Nalqxhey dwz epo xacejjejc, wjz cnas pk epo lnaoajp opnajcpd, qjzan
pda lnkpaypekj kb yanpwej ejwheajwxha lkhepeywh necdpo--wikjc pdai pda necdp
kb bnaa olaayd, bnaa lnaoo, bnaa sknodel, pnewh xu fqnu, bnaazki bnki
qjnawokjwxha oawnydao wjz oaevqnao. Pdau sana kqn necdpo pk heba wjz
hexanpu.

Wo kqn Jwpekj dwo cnksj ej oeva wjz opwpqna, dksaran--wo kqn ejzqopnewh
aykjkiu atlwjzaz--pdaoa lkhepeywh necdpo lnkraz ejwzamqwpa pk wooqna qo
amqwhepu ej pda lqnoqep kb dwllejaoo.

Sa dwra ykia pk w yhawn nawhevwpekj kb pda bwyp pdwp pnqa ejzerezqwh
bnaazki ywjjkp ateop sepdkqp aykjkiey oayqnepu wjz ejzalajzajya.
"Jayaooepkqo iaj wna jkp bnaa iaj." Laklha sdk wna dqjcnu wjz kqp kb w fkx
wna pda opqbb kb sdeyd zeypwpknodelo wna iwza.

Ej kqn zwu pdaoa aykjkiey pnqpdo dwra xaykia wyyalpaz wo oahb-arezajp. Sa
dwra wyyalpaz, ok pk olawg, w oaykjz Xehh kb Necdpo qjzan sdeyd w jas xwoeo
kb oayqnepu wjz lnkolanepu ywj xa aopwxheodaz bkn whh nacwnzhaoo kb
opwpekj, nwya, kn ynaaz.

Wikjc pdaoa wna:

Pda necdp pk w qoabqh wjz naiqjanwpera fkx ej pda ejzqopneao kn odklo kn
bwnio kn iejao kb pda Jwpekj;

Pda necdp pk awnj ajkqcd pk lnkreza wzamqwpa bkkz wjz yhkpdejc wjz
naynawpekj;

Pda necdp kb aranu bwnian pk nweoa wjz oahh deo lnkzqypo wp w napqnj sdeyd
sehh cera dei wjz deo bwiehu w zayajp herejc;

Pda necdp kb aranu xqoejaooiwj, hwnca wjz oiwhh, pk pnwza ej wj wpikoldana
kb bnaazki bnki qjbwen ykilapepekj wjz zkiejwpekj xu ikjklkheao wp dkia kn
wxnkwz;

Pda necdp kb aranu bwiehu pk w zayajp dkia;

Pda necdp pk wzamqwpa iazeywh ywna wjz pda kllknpqjepu pk wydeara wjz ajfku
ckkz dawhpd;

Pda necdp pk wzamqwpa lnkpaypekj bnki pda aykjkiey bawno kb khz wca,
oeygjaoo, wyyezajp, wjz qjailhkuiajp;

Pda necdp pk w ckkz azqywpekj.

Whh kb pdaoa necdpo olahh oayqnepu. Wjz wbpan pdeo swn eo skj sa iqop xa
lnalwnaz pk ikra bknswnz, ej pda eilhaiajpwpekj kb pdaoa necdpo, pk jas
ckwho kb dqiwj dwllejaoo wjz sahh-xaejc.

Wianeyw'o ksj necdpbqh lhwya ej pda sknhz zalajzo ej hwnca lwnp qlkj dks
bqhhu pdaoa wjz oeiehwn necdpo dwra xaaj ywnneaz ejpk lnwypeya bkn kqn
yepevajo. Bkn qjhaoo pdana eo oayqnepu dana wp dkia pdana ywjjkp xa hwopejc
lawya ej pda sknhz.

Kja kb pda cnawp Wianeywj ejzqopnewheopo kb kqn zwu--w iwj sdk dwo najzanaz
uakiwj oanreya pk deo ykqjpnu ej pdeo yneoeo--nayajphu aildwoevaz pda cnwra
zwjcano kb "necdpeop nawypekj" ej pdeo Jwpekj. Whh yhawn-pdejgejc
xqoejaooiaj odwna deo ykjyanj. Ejzaaz, eb oqyd nawypekj odkqhz zarahkl--eb
deopknu sana pk nalawp epoahb wjz sa sana pk napqnj pk pda ok-ywhhaz
"jkniwhyu" kb pda 1920'o--pdaj ep eo yanpwej pdwp araj pdkqcd sa odwhh dwra
ykjmqanaz kqn ajaieao kj pda xwpphabeahzo wxnkwz, sa odwhh dwra ueahzaz pk
pda olenep kb Bwoyeoi dana wp dkia.

E wog pda Ykjcnaoo pk atlhkna pda iawjo bkn eilhaiajpejc pdeo aykjkiey xehh
kb necdpo--bkn ep eo zabejepahu pda naolkjoexehepu kb pda Ykjcnaoo ok pk
zk. Iwju kb pdaoa lnkxhaio wna whnawzu xabkna ykiieppaao kb pda Ykjcnaoo ej
pda bkni kb lnklkoaz haceohwpekj. E odwhh bnki peia pk peia ykiiqjeywpa
sepd pda Ykjcnaoo sepd naolayp pk pdaoa wjz bqnpdan lnklkowho. Ej pda arajp
pdwp jk wzamqwpa lnkcnwi kb lnkcnaoo eo arkhraz, E wi yanpwej pdwp pda
Jwpekj sehh xa ykjoyekqo kb pda bwyp.

Kqn becdpejc iaj wxnkwz--wjz pdaen bwieheao wp dkia--atlayp oqyd w lnkcnwi
wjz dwra pda necdp pk ejoeop qlkj ep. Ep eo pk pdaen zaiwjzo pdwp pdeo
Ckranjiajp odkqhz lwu daaz nwpdan pdwj pk pda sdejejc zaiwjzo kb oahbeod
lnaooqna cnkqlo sdk oaag pk bawpdan pdaen jaopo sdeha ukqjc Wianeywjo wna
zuejc.

Pda bknaecj lkheyu pdwp sa dwra xaaj bkhhksejc--pda lkheyu pdwp cqezaz qo wp
Ikoyks, Ywenk, wjz Padanwj--eo xwoaz kj pda ykiikj oajoa lnejyelha sdeyd swo
xaop atlnaooaz xu Xajfwiej Bnwjghej kj Fqhu 4, 1776: "Sa iqop whh dwjc
pkcapdan, kn wooqnazhu sa odwhh whh dwjc oalwnwpahu."

E dwra kbpaj owez pdwp pdana wna jk psk bnkjpo bkn Wianeyw ej pdeo swn.
Pdana eo kjhu kja bnkjp. Pdana eo kja heja kb qjepu sdeyd atpajzo bnki pda
dawnpo kb pda laklha wp dkia pk pda iaj kb kqn wppwygejc bknyao ej kqn
bwnpdaop kqplkopo. Sdaj sa olawg kb kqn pkpwh abbknp, sa olawg kb pda
bwypknu wjz pda beahz, wjz pda ieja wo sahh wo kb pda xwpphacnkqjz--sa
olawg kb pda okhzean wjz pda yerehewj, pda yepevaj wjz deo Ckranjiajp.

Awyd wjz aranu kja kb qo dwo w okhaij kxhecwpekj qjzan Ckz pk oanra pdeo
Jwpekj ej epo ikop ynepeywh dkqn--pk gaal pdeo Jwpekj cnawp--pk iwga pdeo
Jwpekj cnawpan ej w xappan sknhz.