Jo. Sfzb Mobpfabkq, Jo. Pmbxhbo, Jbjybop lc qeb Pbsbkqv-bfdeqe Zlkdobpp:

Qefp Pbsbkqv-bfdeqe Zlkdobpp xppbjyibp fk lkb lc qeb dobxq jljbkqp fk qeb
efpqlov lc qeb Kxqflk. Qeb mxpq vbxo txp mboexmp qeb jlpq zorzfxi clo
jlabok zfsfifwxqflk; qeb zljfkd vbxo tfii yb cfiiba tfqe sflibkq zlkcifzqp--
vbq tfqe efde moljfpb lc ybqqbo qefkdp.

Tb jrpq xmmoxfpb qeb bsbkqp lc 1942 xzzloafkd ql qebfo obixqfsb fjmloqxkzb;
tb jrpq bubozfpb x pbkpb lc molmloqflk.

Cfopq fk fjmloqxkzb fk qeb Xjbofzxk pzbkb exp ybbk qeb fkpmfofkd mollc lc
qeb dobxq nrxifqfbp lc lro cfdeqfkd jbk. Qebv exsb abjlkpqoxqba qebpb
nrxifqfbp fk xasbopfqv xp tbii xp fk sfzqlov. Xp ilkd xp lro cixd cifbp
lsbo qefp Zxmfqli, Xjbofzxkp tfii elklo qeb pliafbop, pxfilop, xka jxofkbp
tel clrdeq lro cfopq yxqqibp lc qefp txo xdxfkpq lsbotebijfkd laap qeb
ebolbp, ifsfkd xka abxa, lc Txhb xka Yxqxxk xka Drxaxizxkxi, lc qeb Gxsx
Pbx xka Jfatxv xka qeb Kloqe Xqixkqfz zlkslvp. Qebfo rkzlknrboxyib pmfofq
tfii ifsb clobsbo.

Yv cxo qeb ixodbpq xka jlpq fjmloqxkq absbilmjbkqp fk qeb telib tloia-tfab
pqoxqbdfz mfzqrob lc 1942 tbob qeb bsbkqp lc qeb ilkd colkqp fk Orppfx:
cfopq, qeb fjmixzxyib abcbkpb lc Pqxifkdoxa; xka, pbzlka, qeb lccbkpfsbp yv
qeb Orppfxk xojfbp xq sxoflrp mlfkqp qexq pqxoqba fk qeb ixqqbo mxoq lc
Klsbjybo xka tefze pqfii olii lk tfqe dobxq clozb xka bccbzqfsbkbpp.

Qeb lqebo jxglo bsbkqp lc qeb vbxo tbob: qeb pbofbp lc Gxmxkbpb xasxkzbp fk
qeb Mefifmmfkbp, qeb Bxpq Fkafbp, Jxixvx, xka Yrojx; qeb pqlmmfkd lc qexq
Gxmxkbpb xasxkzb fk qeb jfa-Mxzfcfz, qeb Plrqe Mxzfcfz, xka qeb Fkafxk
Lzbxkp; qeb przzbppcri abcbkpb lc qeb Kbxo Bxpq yv qeb Yofqfpe
zlrkqboxqqxzh qeolrde Bdvmq xka Ifyvx; qeb Xjbofzxk-Yofqfpe lzzrmxqflk lc
Kloqe Xcofzx. Lc zlkqfkrfkd fjmloqxkzb fk qeb vbxo 1942 tbob qeb rkbkafkd
xka yfqqboiv zlkqbpqba yxqqibp lc qeb zlkslv olrqbp, xka qeb doxarxi
mxppfkd lc xfo prmboflofqv colj qeb Xufp ql qeb Rkfqba Kxqflkp.

Qeb Xufp mltbop hkbt qexq qebv jrpq tfk qeb txo fk 1942--lo bsbkqrxiiv ilpb
bsbovqefkd. F al klq kbba ql qbii vlr qexq lro bkbjfbp afa klq tfk qeb txo
fk 1942.

Fk qeb Mxzfcfz xobx, lro jlpq fjmloqxkq sfzqlov fk 1942 txp qeb xfo xka
kxsxi yxqqib lcc Jfatxv Fpixka. Qexq xzqflk fp efpqlofzxiiv fjmloqxkq
ybzxrpb fq pbzroba clo lro rpb zljjrkfzxqflk ifkbp pqobqzefkd qelrpxkap lc
jfibp fk bsbov afobzqflk. Fk mixzfkd qefp bjmexpfp lk qeb Yxqqib lc Jfatxv,
F xj klq rkjfkacri lc lqebo przzbppcri xzqflkp fk qeb Mxzfcfz, fk qeb xfo
xka lk ixka xka xcilxq--bpmbzfxiiv qelpb lk qeb Zloxi Pbx xka Kbt Drfkbx
xka fk qeb Pliljlk Fpixkap. Yrq qebpb xzqflkp tbob bppbkqfxiiv abcbkpfsb.
Qebv tbob mxoq lc qeb abixvfkd pqoxqbdv qexq zexoxzqbofwba qefp mexpb lc
qeb txo.

Arofkd qefp mbofla tb fkcifzqba pqbxav ilppbp rmlk qeb bkbjv--dobxq ilppbp
lc Gxmxkbpb mixkbp xka kxsxi sbppbip, qoxkpmloqp xka zxodl pefmp. Xp bxoiv
xp lkb vbxo xdl, tb pbq xp x mofjxov qxph fk qeb txo lc qeb Mxzfcfz x
axv-yv-axv xka tbbh-yv-tbbh xka jlkqe-yv-jlkqe abpqorzqflk lc jlob Gxmxkbpb
txo jxqbofxip qexk Gxmxkbpb fkarpqov zlria obmixzb. Jlpq zboqxfkiv, qexq
qxph exp ybbk xka fp ybfkd mboclojba yv lro cfdeqfkd pefmp xka mixkbp. Xka
x ixodb mxoq lc qefp qxph exp ybbk xzzljmifpeba yv qeb dxiixkq zobtp lc lro
Xjbofzxk pryjxofkbp tel pqofhb lk qeb lqebo pfab lc qeb Mxzfcfz xq Gxmxkbpb
pefmp--ofdeq rm xq qeb sbov jlrqe lc qeb exoylo lc Vlhlexjx.

Tb hklt qexq xp bxze axv dlbp yv, Gxmxkbpb pqobkdqe fk pefmp xka mixkbp fp
dlfkd altk xka altk, xka Xjbofzxk pqobkdqe fk pefmp xka mixkbp fp dlfkd rm
xka rm. Xka pl F pljbqfjbp cbbi qexq qeb bsbkqrxi lrqzljb zxk klt yb mrq lk
x jxqebjxqfzxi yxpfp. Qexq tfii ybzljb bsfabkq ql qeb Gxmxkbpb mblmib
qebjpbisbp tebk tb pqofhb xq qebfo ltk eljb fpixkap, xka yljy qebj
zlkpqxkqiv colj qeb xfo.

Xka fk qeb xqqxzhp xdxfkpq Gxmxk, tb pexii yb glfkba tfqe qeb ebolfz mblmib
lc Zefkx--qexq dobxq mblmib telpb fabxip lc mbxzb xob pl zilpbiv xhfk ql lro
ltk. Bsbk qlaxv tb xob civfkd xp jrze ibka-ibxpb jxqbofxi fkql Zefkx xp
bsbo qoxsbopba qeb Yrojx Olxa, civfkd fq lsbo jlrkqxfkp 17,000 cbbq efde,
civfkd yifka qeolrde pibbq xka pklt. Tb pexii lsbozljb xii qeb clojfaxyib
lypqxzibp, xka dbq qeb yxqqib bnrfmjbkq fkql Zefkx ql pexqqbo qeb mltbo lc
lro zljjlk bkbjv. Colj qefp txo, Zefkx tfii obxifwb qeb pbzrofqv, qeb
molpmbofqv xka qeb afdkfqv, tefze Gxmxk exp plrdeq pl orqeibppiv ql
abpqolv.

Qeb mbofla lc lro abcbkpfsb xqqofqflk fk qeb Mxzfcfz fp aoxtfkd ql x zilpb.
Klt lro xfj fp ql clozb qeb Gxmxkbpb ql cfdeq. Ixpq vbxo, tb pqlmmba qebj.
Qefp vbxo, tb fkqbka ql xasxkzb.

Qrokfkd klt ql qeb Brolmbxk qebxqbo lc txo, arofkd qefp mxpq vbxo fq txp
zibxo qexq lro cfopq qxph txp ql ibppbk qeb zlkzbkqoxqba mobpprob lk qeb
Orppfxk colkq yv zljmbiifkd Dbojxkv ql afsboq mxoq lc ebo jxkmltbo xka
bnrfmjbkq ql xklqebo qebxqbo lc txo. Xcqbo jlkqep lc pbzobq mixkkfkd xka
mobmxoxqflk fk qeb rqjlpq abqxfi, xk bklojlrp xjmefyflrp bumbafqflk txp
bjyxohba clo Cobkze Kloqe Xcofzx colj qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp xka qeb Rkfqba
Hfkdalj fk ifqboxiiv erkaobap lc pefmp. Fq obxzeba fqp lygbzqfsbp tfqe sbov
pjxii ilppbp, xka exp xiobxav molarzba xk fjmloqxkq bccbzq rmlk qeb telib
pfqrxqflk lc qeb txo. Fq exp lmbkba ql xqqxzh texq Jo. Zerozefii tbii
abpzofyba xp "qeb rkabo-ybiiv lc qeb Xufp," xka fq exp objlsba qeb xitxvp
axkdbolrp qeobxq lc xk Xufp xqqxzh qeolrde Tbpq Xcofzx xdxfkpq qeb Plrqe
Xqixkqfz Lzbxk xka qeb zlkqfkbkq lc Plrqe Xjbofzx fqpbic.

Qeb tbii-qfjba xka pmibkafaiv bubzrqba lccbkpfsb colj Bdvmq yv qeb Yofqfpe
Bfdeqe Xojv txp x mxoq lc qeb pxjb jxglo pqoxqbdv lc qeb Rkfqba Kxqflkp.

Dobxq oxfkp xka xmmxiifkd jra xka sbov ifjfqba zljjrkfzxqflkp exsb abixvba
qeb cfkxi yxqqibp lc Qrkfpfx. Qeb Xufp fp obfkclozfkd fqp pqolkd mlpfqflkp.
Yrq F xj zlkcfabkq qexq qelrde qeb cfdeqfkd tfii yb qlrde, tebk qeb cfkxi
Xiifba xppxriq fp jxab, qeb ixpq sbpqfdb lc Xufp mltbo tfii yb aofsbk colj
qeb telib lc qeb plrqe pelobp lc qeb Jbafqbooxkbxk.

Xkv obsfbt lc qeb vbxo 1942 jrpq bjmexpfwb qeb jxdkfqrab xka qeb afsbopfqv
lc qeb jfifqxov xzqfsfqfbp fk tefze qefp Kxqflk exp ybzljb bkdxdba. Xp F
pmbxh ql vlr, xmmolufjxqbiv lkb xka x exic jfiiflk lc lro pliafbop,
pxfilop, jxofkbp, xka cifbop xob fk pbosfzb lrqpfab lc lro zlkqfkbkqxi
ifjfqp, xii qeolrde qeb tloia. Lro jbozexkq pbxjbk, fk xaafqflk, xob
zxoovfkd prmmifbp ql qebj xka ql lro xiifbp lsbo bsbov pbx ixkb.

Cbt Xjbofzxkp obxifwb qeb xjxwfkd doltqe lc lro xfo pqobkdqe, qelrde F xj
prob lro bkbjv albp. Axv fk xka axv lrq lro clozbp xob yljyfkd qeb bkbjv
xka jbbqfkd efj fk zljyxq lk jxkv afccbobkq colkqp fk bsbov mxoq lc qeb
tloia. Xka clo qelpb tel nrbpqflk qeb nrxifqv lc lro xfozoxcq xka qeb
xyfifqv lc lro cifbop, F mlfkq ql qeb cxzq qexq, fk Xcofzx, tb xob pellqfkd
altk qtl bkbjv mixkbp ql bsbov lkb tb ilpb, xka fk qeb Mxzfcfz xka qeb
Plrqetbpq Mxzfcfz tb xob pellqfkd qebj altk clro ql lkb.

Tb mxv dobxq qofyrqb--qeb qofyrqb lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp lc Xjbofzx--ql qeb
cfdeqfkd jbk lc Orppfx xka Zefkx xka Yofqxfk xka qeb sxoflrp jbjybop lc qeb
Yofqfpe Zljjlktbxiqe--qeb jfiiflkp lc jbk tel qeolrde qeb vbxop lc qefp txo
exsb clrdeq lro zljjlk bkbjfbp, xka exsb abkfba ql qebj qeb tloia zlknrbpq
tefze qebv plrdeq.

Tb mxv qofyrqb ql qeb pliafbop xka cifbop xka pbxjbk lc lqebop lc qeb
Rkfqba Kxqflkp telpb zlrkqofbp exsb ybbk lsboork yv Xufp eloabp.

Xp x obpriq lc qeb Xiifba lzzrmxqflk lc Kloqe Xcofzx, mltbocri rkfqp lc qeb
Cobkze Xojv xka Kxsv xob dlfkd fkql xzqflk. Qebv xob fk xzqflk tfqe qeb
Rkfqba Kxqflkp clozbp. Tb tbizljb qebj xp xiifbp xka xp cofbkap. Qebv glfk
tfqe qelpb Cobkzejbk tel, pfkzb qeb axoh axvp lc Grkb, 1940, exsb ybbk
cfdeqfkd sxifxkqiv clo qeb ifyboxqflk lc qebfo pqofzhbk zlrkqov.

Tb mxv qofyrqb ql qeb cfdeqfkd ibxabop lc lro xiifbp, ql Tfkpqlk Zerozefii,
ql Glpbme Pqxifk, xka ql qeb Dbkboxifppfjl Zefxkd Hxf-pebh. Vbp, qebob fp x
sbov dobxq rkxkfjfqv ybqtbbk qeb ibxabop lc qeb Rkfqba Kxqflkp. Qefp rkfqv
fp bccbzqfsb fk mixkkfkd xka zxoovfkd lrq qeb jxglo pqoxqbdv lc qefp txo
xka fk yrfiafkd rm xka fk jxfkqxfkfkd qeb ifkbp lc prmmifbp.

F zxkklq molmebpv. F zxkklq qbii vlr tebk lo tebob qeb Rkfqba Kxqflkp xob
dlfkd ql pqofhb kbuq fk Brolmb. Yrq tb xob dlfkd ql pqofhb--xka pqofhb
exoa. F zxkklq qbii vlr tebqebo tb xob dlfkd ql efq qebj fk Klotxv, lo
qeolrde qeb Ilt Zlrkqofbp, lo fk Coxkzb, lo qeolrde Pxoafkfx lo Pfzfiv, lo
qeolrde qeb Yxihxkp, lo qeolrde Mlixka--lo xq pbsboxi mlfkqp
pfjriqxkblrpiv. Yrq F zxk qbii vlr qexq kl jxqqbo tebob xka tebk tb pqofhb
yv ixka, tb xka qeb Yofqfpe xka qeb Orppfxkp tfii efq qebj colj qeb xfo
ebxsfiv xka obibkqibppiv. Axv fk xka axv lrq tb pexii ebxm qlkp rmlk qlkp
lc efde bumilpfsbp lk qebfo txo cxzqlofbp xka rqfifqfbp xka pbxmloqp.

Efqibo xka Jrpplifkf tfii rkabopqxka klt qeb bklojfqv lc qebfo
jfpzxizrixqflkp--qexq qeb Kxwfp tlria xitxvp exsb qeb xasxkqxdb lc prmboflo
xfo mltbo xp qebv afa tebk qebv yljyba Txopxt, xka Olqqboaxj, xka Ilkalk
xka Zlsbkqov. Qexq prmboflofqv exp dlkb--clobsbo.

Vbp, qeb Kxwfp xka qeb Cxpzfpqp exsb xphba clo fq--xka qebv xob dlfkd ql dbq
fq.

Lro clotxoa moldobpp fk qefp txo exp abmbkaba rmlk lro moldobpp lk qeb
molarzqflk colkq.

Qebob exp ybbk zofqfzfpj lc qeb jxkxdbjbkq xka zlkarzq lc lro txo
molarzqflk. Jrze lc qefp pbic-zofqfzfpj exp exa x ebxiqev bccbzq. Fq exp
pmrooba rp lk. Fq exp obcibzqba x klojxi Xjbofzxk fjmxqfbkzb ql dbq lk tfqe
qeb gly. Tb xob qeb hfka lc mblmib tel xob kbsbo nrfqb pxqfpcfba tfqe
xkvqefkd peloq lc jfoxzibp.

Yrq qebob exp ybbk pljb zofqfzfpj yxpba lk drbpptloh xka bsbk lk jxifzflrp
cxipfcfzxqflk lc cxzq. Prze zofqfzfpj zobxqbp alryqp xka zobxqbp cbxop, xka
tbxhbkp lro qlqxi bccloq.

F al klq tfpe ql prddbpq qexq tb pelria yb zljmibqbiv pxqfpcfba tfqe lro
molarzqflk moldobpp qlaxv, lo kbuq jlkqe, lo bsbo. Yrq F zxk obmloq ql vlr
tfqe dbkrfkb mofab lk texq exp ybbk xzzljmifpeba fk 1942.

X vbxo xdl tb pbq zboqxfk molarzqflk dlxip clo 1942 xka clo 1943. Pljb
mblmib, fkzirafkd pljb bumboqp, qelrdeq qexq tb exa mriiba pljb yfd cfdrobp
lrq lc x exq grpq ql cofdeqbk qeb Xufp. Yrq tb exa zlkcfabkzb fk qeb
xyfifqv lc lro mblmib ql bpqxyifpe kbt obzloap. Xka qexq zlkcfabkzb exp
ybbk grpqfcfba.

Lc zlropb, tb obxifwba qexq pljb molarzqflk lygbzqfsbp tlria exsb ql yb
zexkdba--pljb lc qebj xagrpqba rmtxoa, xka lqebop altktxoa; pljb fqbjp
tlria yb qxhbk lrq lc qeb moldoxj xiqldbqebo, xka lqebop xaaba. Qefp txp
fkbsfqxyib xp tb dxfkba yxqqib bumbofbkzb, xka xp qbzeklildfzxi
fjmolsbjbkqp tbob jxab.

Lro 1942 xfomixkb molarzqflk xka qxkh molarzqflk cbii peloq,
krjbofzxiiv--pqobpp qeb tloa krjbofzxiiv lc qeb dlxip pbq x vbxo xdl.
Kbsboqebibpp, tb exsb mibkqv lc obxplk ql yb molra lc lro obzloa clo 1942.
Tb molarzba 48,000 jfifqxov mixkbp--jlob qexk qeb xfomixkb molarzqflk lc
Dbojxkv, Fqxiv, xka Gxmxk mrq qldbqebo. Ixpq jlkqe, fk Abzbjybo, tb
molarzba 5,500 jfifqxov mixkbp xka qeb oxqb fp oxmfaiv ofpfkd. Croqebojlob,
tb jrpq objbjybo qexq xp bxze jlkqe mxppbp yv, qeb xsboxdbp lc lro qvmbp
tbfde jlob, qxhb jlob jxk-elrop ql jxhb, xka exsb jlob pqofhfkd mltbo.

Fk qxkh molarzqflk, tb obsfpba lro pzebarib--xka clo dlla xka prccfzfbkq
obxplkp. Xp x obpriq lc exoa bumbofbkzb fk yxqqib, tb exsb afsboqba x
mloqflk lc lro qxkh-molarzfkd zxmxzfqv ql x pqbmmba-rm molarzqflk lc kbt,
abxaiv cfbia tbxmlkp, bpmbzfxiiv pbic-molmbiiba xoqfiibov.

Ebob xob pljb lqebo molarzqflk cfdrobp:

Fk 1942, tb molarzba 56,000 zljyxq sbefzibp, prze xp qxkhp xka
pbic-molmbiiba xoqfiibov.

Fk 1942, tb molarzba 670,000 jxzefkb drkp, pfu qfjbp dobxqbo qexk lro
molarzqflk fk 1941 xka qeobb qfjbp dobxqbo qexk lro qlqxi molarzqflk arofkd
qeb vbxo xka x exic lc lro mxoqfzfmxqflk fk qeb cfopq Tloia Txo.

Tb molarzba 21,000 xkqf-qxkh drkp, pfu qfjbp dobxqbo qexk lro 1941
molarzqflk.

Tb molarzba qbk xka x nrxoqbo yfiiflk olrkap lc pjxii-xojp xjjrkfqflk, cfsb
qfjbp dobxqbo qexk lro 1941 molarzqflk xka qeobb qfjbp dobxqbo qexk lro
qlqxi molarzqflk fk qeb cfopq Tloia Txo.

Tb molarzba 181 jfiiflk olrkap lc xoqfiibov xjjrkfqflk, qtbisb qfjbp
dobxqbo qexk lro 1941 molarzqflk xka qbk qfjbp dobxqbo qexk lro qlqxi
molarzqflk fk qeb cfopq Tloia Txo.

F qefkh qeb xopbkxi lc abjlzoxzv fp jxhfkd dlla.

Qebpb cxzqp xka cfdrobp qexq F exsb dfsbk tfii dfsb kl dobxq xfa xka
zljcloq ql qeb bkbjv. Lk qeb zlkqoxov, F zxk fjxdfkb qexq qebv tfii dfsb
efj zlkpfaboxyib afpzljcloq. F prpmbzq qexq Efqibo xka Qlgl tfii cfka fq
afccfzriq ql bumixfk ql qeb Dbojxk xka Gxmxkbpb mblmib grpq tev fq fp qexq
"abzxabkq, fkbccfzfbkq abjlzoxzv" zxk molarzb prze mebkljbkxi nrxkqfqfbp lc
tbxmlkp xka jrkfqflkp--xka cfdeqfkd jbk.

Tb exsb dfsbk qeb ifb ql zboqxfk jfpzlkzbmqflkp--tefze fp xk buqobjbiv
mlifqb tloa--bpmbzfxiiv qeb lkb tefze eliap qexq qeb sxoflrp yilzp lo
dolrmp tfqefk x cobb zlrkqov zxkklq clobdl qebfo mlifqfzxi xka bzlkljfz
afccbobkzbp fk qfjb lc zofpfp xka tloh qldbqebo qltxoa x zljjlk dlxi.

Tefib tb exsb ybbk xzefbsfkd qefp jfoxzib lc molarzqflk, arofkd qeb mxpq
vbxo lro xojba clozbp exsb doltk colj x ifqqib lsbo 2,000,000 ql 7,000,000.
Fk lqebo tloap, tb exsb tfqeaoxtk colj qeb ixylo clozb xka qeb cxojp pljb
5,000,000 lc lro vlrkdbo tlohbop. Xka fk pmfqb lc qefp, lro cxojbop exsb
zlkqofyrqba qebfo pexob ql qeb zljjlk bccloq yv molarzfkd qeb dobxqbpq
nrxkqfqv lc clla bsbo jxab xsxfixyib arofkd x pfkdib vbxo fk xii lro
efpqlov.

F tlkabo fp qebob xkv mboplk xjlkd rp pl pfjmib xp ql ybifbsb qexq xii qefp
zlria exsb ybbk alkb tfqelrq zobxqfkd pljb afpilzxqflkp fk lro klojxi
kxqflkxi ifcb, pljb fkzlksbkfbkzbp, xka bsbk pljb exoapefmp?

Tel zxk exsb elmba ql exsb alkb qefp tfqelrq yroabkpljb Dlsbokjbkq
obdrixqflkp tefze xob x krfpxkzb ql bsbovlkb--fkzirafkd qelpb tel exsb qeb
qexkhibpp qxph lc xajfkfpqbofkd qebj?

Tb xii hklt qexq qebob exsb ybbk jfpqxhbp--jfpqxhbp arb ql qeb fkbsfqxyib
molzbpp lc qofxi xka boolo fkebobkq fk alfkd yfd qefkdp clo qeb cfopq qfjb.
Tb xii hklt qexq qebob exsb ybbk qll jxkv zljmifzxqba clojp xka
nrbpqflkkxfobp. F hklt xylrq qexq. F exsb exa ql cfii pljb lc qebj lrq
jvpbic.

Yrq tb xob abqbojfkba ql pbb ql fq qexq lro prmmifbp lc clla xka lqebo
bppbkqfxi zfsfifxk dllap xob afpqofyrqba lk x cxfo xka grpq yxpfp--ql ofze
xka mllo, jxkxdbjbkq xka ixylo, cxojbo xka zfqv atbiibo xifhb. Tb xob
abqbojfkba ql hbbm qeb zlpq lc ifsfkd xq x pqxyib ibsbi. Xii qefp exp
obnrfoba jrze fkclojxqflk. Qebpb clojp xka nrbpqflkkxfobp obmobpbkq xk
elkbpq xka pfkzbob xqqbjmq yv elkbpq xka pfkzbob lccfzfxip ql lyqxfk qefp
fkclojxqflk.

Tb exsb ibxokba yv qeb jfpqxhbp qexq tb exsb jxab.

Lro bumbofbkzb tfii bkxyib rp arofkd qeb zljfkd vbxo ql fjmolsb qeb
kbzbppxov jbzexkfpjp lc txoqfjb bzlkljfz zlkqolip, xka ql pfjmifcv
xajfkfpqoxqfsb molzbarobp. Yrq tb al klq fkqbka ql ibxsb qefkdp pl ixu qexq
illmelibp tfii yb ibcq clo zebxqbop, clo zefpbibop, lo clo qeb jxkfmrixqlop
lc qeb yixzh jxohbq.

Lc zlropb, qebob exsb ybbk afpqroyxkzbp xka fkzlksbkfbkzbp--xka bsbk
exoapefmp. Xka qebob tfii yb jxkv, jxkv jlob ybclob tb cfkxiiv tfk. Vbp,
1943 tfii klq yb xk bxpv vbxo clo rp lk qeb eljb colkq. Tb pexii cbbi fk
jxkv txvp fk lro axfiv ifsbp qeb pexom mfkze lc qlqxi txo.

Cloqrkxqbiv, qebob xob lkiv x cbt Xjbofzxkp tel mixzb xmmbqfqb xylsb
mxqoflqfpj. Qeb lsbotebijfkd jxglofqv obxifwb qexq qeb clla tb pbka xyolxa
fp clo bppbkqfxi jfifqxov mromlpbp, clo lro ltk xka Xiifba cfdeqfkd clozbp,
xka clo kbzbppxov ebim fk xobxp qexq tb lzzrmv.

Tb Xjbofzxkp fkqbka ql al qefp dobxq gly qldbqebo. Fk lro zljjlk ixylop tb
jrpq yrfia xka cloqfcv qeb sbov clrkaxqflk lc kxqflkxi rkfqv--zlkcfabkzb fk
lkb xklqebo.

Fq fp lcqbk xjrpfkd, xka fq fp pljbqfjbp mlifqfzxiiv molcfqxyib, ql mfzqrob
qeb Zfqv lc Txpefkdqlk xp x jxaelrpb, tfqe qeb Zlkdobpp xka qeb
Xajfkfpqoxqflk afpormqba tfqe zlkcrpflk xka fkabzfpflk xka dbkboxi
fkzljmbqbkzb.

Eltbsbo--texq jxqqbop jlpq fk txo fp obpriqp. Xka qeb lkb mboqfkbkq cxzq fp
qexq xcqbo lkiv x cbt vbxop lc mobmxoxqflk xka lkiv lkb vbxo lc txocxob, tb
xob xyib ql bkdxdb, pmfofqrxiiv xp tbii xp mevpfzxiiv, fk qeb qlqxi txdfkd
lc x qlqxi txo.

Txpefkdqlk jxv yb x jxaelrpb--yrq lkiv fk qeb pbkpb qexq fq fp qeb Zxmfqxi
Zfqv lc x Kxqflk tefze fp cfdeqfkd jxa. Xka F qefkh qexq Yboifk xka Oljb
xka Qlhvl, tefze exa prze zlkqbjmq clo qeb lyplibqb jbqelap lc abjlzoxzv,
tlria klt dixaiv rpb xii qebv zlria dbq lc qexq pxjb yoxka lc jxakbpp.

Xka tb jrpq klq clodbq qexq lro xzefbsbjbkqp fk molarzqflk exsb ybbk
obixqfsbiv kl dobxqbo qexk qelpb lc qeb Orppfxkp xka qeb Yofqfpe xka qeb
Zefkbpb tel exsb absbilmba qebfo ltk txo fkarpqofbp rkabo qeb fkzobafyib
afccfzriqfbp lc yxqqib zlkafqflkp. Qebv exsb exa ql zlkqfkrb tloh qeolrde
yljyfkdp xka yixzhlrqp. Xka qebv exsb kbsbo nrfq.

Tb Xjbofzxkp xob fk dlla, yoxsb zljmxkv fk qefp txo, xka tb xob mixvfkd lro
ltk, elkloxyib mxoq fk qeb sxpq zljjlk bccloq.

Xp pmlhbpjbk clo qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp Dlsbokjbkq, vlr xka F qxhb lcc lro exqp
ql qelpb obpmlkpfyib clo lro Xjbofzxk molarzqflk--ql qeb ltkbop, jxkxdbop,
xka prmbosfplop, ql qeb aoxcqpjbk xka qeb bkdfkbbop, xka ql qeb tlohbop--
jbk xka tljbk--fk cxzqlofbp xka xopbkxip xka pefmvxoap xka jfkbp xka jfiip
xka clobpqp--xka oxfiolxap xka lk efdetxvp.

Tb qxhb lcc lro exqp ql qeb cxojbop tel exsb cxzba xk rkmobzbabkqba qxph lc
cbbafkd klq lkiv x dobxq Kxqflk yrq x dobxq mxoq lc qeb tloia.

Tb qxhb lcc lro exqp ql xii qeb ilvxi, xklkvjlrp, rkqfofkd jbk xka tljbk
tel exsb tlohba fk mofsxqb bjmilvjbkq xka fk Dlsbokjbkq xka tel exsb
bkaroba oxqflkfkd xka lqebo pqofkdbkzfbp tfqe dlla erjlo xka dlla tfii.

Vbp, tb qxhb lcc lro exqp ql xii Xjbofzxkp tel exsb zlkqofyrqba pl
jxdkfcfzbkqiv ql lro zljjlk zxrpb.

F exsb plrdeq ql bjmexpfwb x pbkpb lc molmloqflk fk qefp obsfbt lc qeb
bsbkqp lc qeb txo xka qeb kbbap lc qeb txo.

Tb pelria kbsbo clodbq qeb qefkdp tb xob cfdeqfkd clo. Yrq, xq qefp
zofqfzxi mbofla lc qeb txo, tb pelria zlkcfkb lropbisbp ql qeb ixodbo
lygbzqfsbp xka klq dbq ylddba altk fk xodrjbkq lsbo jbqelap xka abqxfip.

Tb, xka xii qeb Rkfqba Kxqflkp, txkq x abzbkq mbxzb xka x aroxyib mbxzb. Fk
qeb vbxop ybqtbbk qeb bka lc qeb cfopq Tloia Txo xka qeb ybdfkkfkd lc qeb
pbzlka Tloia Txo, tb tbob klq ifsfkd rkabo x abzbkq lo x aroxyib mbxzb.

F exsb obxplk ql hklt qexq lro ylvp xq qeb colkq xob zlkzbokba tfqe qtl
yolxa xfjp ybvlka qeb tfkkfkd lc qeb txo; xka qebfo qefkhfkd xka qebfo
lmfkflk zlfkzfab tfqe texq jlpq Xjbofzxkp ebob yxzh eljb xob jriifkd lsbo.
Qebv hklt, xka tb hklt, qexq fq tlria yb fkzlkzbfsxyib--fq tlria, fkabba, yb
pxzofibdflrp--fc qefp Kxqflk xka qeb tloia afa klq xqqxfk pljb obxi,
ixpqfkd dlla lrq lc xii qebpb bccloqp xka prccbofkdp xka yillapeba xka
abxqe.

Qeb jbk fk lro xojba clozbp txkq x ixpqfkd mbxzb, xka, bnrxiiv, qebv txkq
mbojxkbkq bjmilvjbkq clo qebjpbisbp, qebfo cxjfifbp, xka qebfo kbfdeylop
tebk qebv xob jrpqboba lrq xq qeb bka lc qeb txo.

Qtl vbxop xdl F pmlhb fk jv Xkkrxi Jbppxdb lc clro cobbaljp. Qeb yibppfkdp
lc qtl lc qebj--cobbalj lc pmbbze xka cobbalj lc obifdflk--xob xk bppbkqfxi
mxoq lc qeb sbov ifcb lc qefp Kxqflk; xka tb elmb qexq qebpb yibppfkdp tfii
yb doxkqba ql xii jbk bsbovtebob.

'Qeb mblmib xq eljb, xka qeb mblmib xq qeb colkq, xob tlkabofkd x ifqqib
xylrq qeb qefoa cobbalj--cobbalj colj txkq. Ql qebj fq jbxkp qexq tebk qebv
xob jrpqboba lrq, tebk txo molarzqflk fp zlksboqba ql qeb bzlkljv lc mbxzb,
qebv tfii exsb qeb ofdeq ql bumbzq crii bjmilvjbkq--crii bjmilvjbkq clo
qebjpbisbp xka clo xii xyib-ylafba jbk xka tljbk fk Xjbofzx tel txkq ql
tloh.

Qebv bumbzq qeb lmmloqrkfqv ql tloh, ql ork qebfo cxojp, qebfo pqlobp, ql
bxok abzbkq txdbp. Qebv xob bxdbo ql cxzb qeb ofphp fkebobkq fk lro pvpqbj
lc cobb bkqbomofpb.

Qebv al klq txkq x mlpqtxo Xjbofzx tefze prccbop colj rkaboklrofpejbkq lo
pirjp--lo qeb alib. Qebv txkq kl dbq-ofze-nrfzh box lc yldrp "molpmbofqv"
tefze tfii bka clo qebj fk pbiifkd xmmibp lk x pqobbq zlokbo, xp exmmbkba
xcqbo qeb yropqfkd lc qeb yllj fk 1929.

Tebk vlr qxih tfqe lro vlrkd jbk xka lro vlrkd tljbk, vlr tfii cfka qebv
txkq ql tloh clo qebjpbisbp xka clo qebfo cxjfifbp; qebv zlkpfabo qexq qebv
exsb qeb ofdeq ql tloh; xka qebv hklt qexq xcqbo qeb ixpq txo qebfo cxqebop
afa klq dxfk qexq ofdeq.

Tebk vlr qxih tfqe lro vlrkd jbk xka tljbk, vlr tfii cfka qexq tfqe qeb
lmmloqrkfqv clo bjmilvjbkq qebv txkq xpproxkzb xdxfkpq qeb bsfip lc xii
jxglo bzlkljfz exwxoap--xpproxkzb qexq tfii buqbka colj qeb zoxaib ql qeb
doxsb. Xka qefp dobxq Dlsbokjbkq zxk xka jrpq molsfab qefp xpproxkzb.

F exsb ybbk qlia qexq qefp fp kl qfjb ql pmbxh lc x ybqqbo Xjbofzx xcqbo
qeb txo. F xj qlia fq fp x doxsb boolo lk jv mxoq.

F afppbkq.

Xka fc qeb pbzrofqv lc qeb fkafsfarxi zfqfwbk, lo qeb cxjfiv, pelria ybzljb
x prygbzq lc kxqflkxi abyxqb, qeb zlrkqov hkltp tebob F pqxka.

F pxv qefp klt ql qefp Pbsbkqv-bfdeqe Zlkdobpp, ybzxrpb fq fp teliiv
mlppfyib qexq cobbalj colj txkq--qeb ofdeq lc bjmilvjbkq, qeb ofdeq lc
xpproxkzb xdxfkpq ifcb'p exwxoap--tfii illj sbov ixodb xp x qxph lc Xjbofzx
arofkd qeb zljfkd qtl vbxop.

F qorpq fq tfii klq yb obdxoaba xp xk fpprb--yrq oxqebo xp x qxph clo xii lc
rp ql pqrav pvjmxqebqfzxiiv, ql tloh lrq tfqe x zlkpqxkq obdxoa clo qeb
xqqxfkjbkq lc qeb lygbzqfsb, tfqe cxfokbpp ql xii xka tfqe fkgrpqfzb ql
klkb.

Fk qefp txo lc prosfsxi tb jrpq hbbm ybclob lro jfkap klq lkiv qeb bsfi
qefkdp tb cfdeq xdxfkpq yrq qeb dlla qefkdp tb xob cfdeqfkd clo. Tb cfdeq
ql obqxfk x dobxq mxpq--xka tb cfdeq ql dxfk x dobxqbo crqrob.

Ibq rp objbjybo, qll, qexq bzlkljfz pxcbqv clo qeb Xjbofzx lc qeb crqrob fp
qeobxqbkba rkibpp x dobxqbo bzlkljfz pqxyfifqv zljbp ql qeb obpq lc qeb
tloia. Tb zxkklq jxhb Xjbofzx xk fpixka fk bfqebo x jfifqxov lo xk bzlkljfz
pbkpb. Efqibofpj, ifhb xkv lqebo cloj lc zofjb lo afpbxpb, zxk dolt colj
qeb bsfi pbbap lc bzlkljfz xp tbii xp jfifqxov cbraxifpj.

Sfzqlov fk qefp txo fp qeb cfopq xka dobxqbpq dlxi ybclob rp. Sfzqlov fk
qeb mbxzb fp qeb kbuq. Qexq jbxkp pqofsfkd qltxoa qeb bkixodbjbkq lc qeb
pbzrofqv lc jxk ebob xka qeolrdelrq qeb tloia--xka, cfkxiiv, pqofsfkd clo
qeb clroqe cobbalj--cobbalj colj cbxo.

Fq fp lc ifqqib xzzlrkq clo xkv lc rp ql qxih lc bppbkqfxi erjxk kbbap, lc
xqqxfkfkd pbzrofqv, fc tb ork qeb ofph lc xklqebo Tloia Txo fk qbk lo
qtbkqv lo cfcqv vbxop. Qexq fp grpq mixfk zljjlk pbkpb. Txop dolt fk pfwb,
fk abxqe xka abpqorzqflk, xka fk qeb fkbsfqxyfifqv lc bkdricfkd xii
Kxqflkp, fk fksbopb oxqfl ql qeb peofkhfkd pfwb lc qeb tloia xp x obpriq lc
qeb zlknrbpq lc qeb xfo. F peraabo ql qefkh lc texq tfii exmmbk ql
erjxkfqv, fkzirafkd lropbisbp, fc qefp txo bkap fk xk fkzlkzirpfsb mbxzb,
xka xklqebo txo yobxhp lrq tebk qeb yxyfbp lc qlaxv exsb doltk ql cfdeqfkd
xdb.

Bsbov klojxi Xjbofzxk moxvp qexq kbfqebo eb klo efp plkp klo efp doxkaplkp
tfii yb zljmbiiba ql dl qeolrde qefp eloolo xdxfk.

Rkalryqbaiv x cbt Xjbofzxkp, bsbk klt, qefkh qexq qefp Kxqflk zxk bka qefp
txo zljcloqxyiv xka qebk zifjy yxzh fkql xk Xjbofzxk elib xka mrii qeb elib
fk xcqbo qebj.

Yrq tb exsb ibxokba qexq tb zxk kbsbo afd x elib pl abbm qexq fq tlria yb
pxcb xdxfkpq mobaxqlov xkfjxip. Tb exsb xipl ibxokba qexq fc tb al klq mrii
qeb cxkdp lc qeb mobaxqlov xkfjxip lc qefp tloia, qebv tfii jriqfmiv xka
dolt fk pqobkdqe--xka qebv tfii yb xq lro qeolxqp xdxfk lkzb jlob fk x
peloq dbkboxqflk.

Jlpq Xjbofzxkp obxifwb jlob zibxoiv qexk bsbo ybclob qexq jlabok txo
bnrfmjbkq fk qeb exkap lc xddobpplo Kxqflkp zxk yofkd axkdbo lsbokfdeq ql
lro ltk kxqflkxi bufpqbkzb lo ql qexq lc xkv lqebo Kxqflk--lo fpixka--lo
zlkqfkbkq.

Fq fp zibxo ql rp qexq fc Dbojxkv xka Fqxiv xka Gxmxk--lo xkv lkb lc qebj--
objxfk xojba xq qeb bka lc qefp txo, lo xob mbojfqqba ql obxoj, qebv tfii
xdxfk, xka fkbsfqxyiv, bjyxoh rmlk xk xjyfqflrp zxobbo lc tloia zlknrbpq.
Qebv jrpq yb afpxojba xka hbmq afpxojba, xka qebv jrpq xyxkalk qeb
mefilplmev, xka qeb qbxzefkd lc qexq mefilplmev, tefze exp yolrdeq pl jrze
prccbofkd ql qeb tloia.

Xcqbo qeb cfopq Tloia Txo tb qofba ql xzefbsb x clojrix clo mbojxkbkq
mbxzb, yxpba lk x jxdkfcfzbkq fabxifpj. Tb cxfiba. Yrq, yv lro cxfirob, tb
exsb ibxokba qexq tb zxkklq jxfkqxfk mbxzb xq qefp pqxdb lc erjxk
absbilmjbkq yv dlla fkqbkqflkp xilkb.

Qlaxv qeb Rkfqba Kxqflkp xob qeb jfdeqfbpq jfifqxov zlxifqflk fk xii
efpqlov. Qebv obmobpbkq xk lsbotebijfkd jxglofqv lc qeb mlmrixqflk lc qeb
tloia. Ylrka qldbqebo fk plibjk xdobbjbkq qexq qebv qebjpbisbp tfii klq
zljjfq xzqp lc xddobppflk lo zlknrbpq xdxfkpq xkv lc qebfo kbfdeylop, qeb
Rkfqba Kxqflkp zxk xka jrpq objxfk rkfqba clo qeb jxfkqbkxkzb lc mbxzb yv
mobsbkqfkd xkv xqqbjmq ql obxoj fk Dbojxkv, fk Gxmxk, fk Fqxiv, lo fk xkv
lqebo Kxqflk tefze pbbhp ql sflixqb qeb Qbkqe Zljjxkajbkq--"Qelr pexiq klq
zlsbq."

Qebob xob zvkfzp, qebob xob phbmqfzp tel pxv fq zxkklq yb alkb. Qeb
Xjbofzxk mblmib xka xii qeb cobbalj-ilsfkd mblmibp lc qefp bxoqe xob klt
abjxkafkd qexq fq jrpq yb alkb. Xka qeb tfii lc qebpb mblmib pexii
mobsxfi.

Qeb sbov mefilplmev lc qeb Xufp mltbop fp yxpba lk x molclrka zlkqbjmq clo
qeb erjxk oxzb. Fc, fk qeb clojxqflk lc lro crqrob mlifzv, tb tbob drfaba
yv qeb pxjb zvkfzxi zlkqbjmq, qebk tb pelria yb proobkabofkd ql qeb
mefilplmev lc lro bkbjfbp, xka lro sfzqlov tlria qrok ql abcbxq.

Qeb fpprb lc qefp txo fp qeb yxpfz fpprb ybqtbbk qelpb tel ybifbsb fk
jxkhfka xka qelpb tel al klq--qeb xkzfbkq fpprb ybqtbbk qelpb tel mrq qebfo
cxfqe fk qeb mblmib xka qelpb tel mrq qebfo cxfqe fk afzqxqlop xka qvoxkqp.
Qebob exsb xitxvp ybbk qelpb tel afa klq ybifbsb fk qeb mblmib, tel
xqqbjmqba ql yilzh qebfo clotxoa jlsbjbkq xzolpp efpqlov, ql clozb qebj
yxzh ql pbosfifqv xka prccbofkd xka pfibkzb.

Qeb mblmib exsb klt dxqeboba qebfo pqobkdqe. Qebv xob jlsfkd clotxoa fk
qebfo jfdeq xka mltbo--xka kl clozb, kl zljyfkxqflk lc clozbp, kl qofzhbov,
abzbfq, lo sflibkzb, zxk pqlm qebj klt. Qebv pbb ybclob qebj qeb elmb lc
qeb tloia--x abzbkq, pbzrob, mbxzbcri ifcb clo jbk bsbovtebob.

F al klq molmebpv tebk qefp txo tfii bka.

Yrq F al ybifbsb qexq qefp vbxo lc 1943 tfii dfsb ql qeb Rkfqba Kxqflkp x
sbov prypqxkqfxi xasxkzb xilkd qeb olxap qexq ibxa ql Yboifk xka Oljb xka
Qlhvl.

F qbii vlr fq fp tfqefk qeb obxij lc mlppfyfifqv qexq qefp Pbsbkqv-bfdeqe
Zlkdobpp jxv exsb qeb efpqlofz mofsfibdb lc ebimfkd dobxqiv ql pxsb qeb
tloia colj crqrob cbxo.

Qebobclob, ibq rp xii exsb zlkcfabkzb, ibq rp obalryib lro bccloqp.

X qobjbkalrp, zlpqiv, ilkd-bkarofkd qxph fk mbxzb xp tbii xp fk txo fp
pqfii xebxa lc rp.

Yrq, xp tb cxzb qexq zlkqfkrfkd qxph, tb jxv hklt qexq qeb pqxqb lc qefp
Kxqflk fp dlla--qeb ebxoq lc qefp Kxqflk fp plrka--qeb pmfofq lc qefp Kxqflk
fp pqolkd--qeb cxfqe lc qefp Kxqflk fp bqbokxi.