Ez esp Dpylep lyo Szfdp zq Cpacpdpyeletgpd:

Yz yletzy sld rcplepc cpdzfcnpd esly zfcd, lyo T estyv te nly mp
ecfesqfwwj dlto esle esp ntetkpyd zq yz yletzy azddpdd rcplepc pypcrj
lyo tyofdectlw lmtwtej. Ty yz yletzy lcp esp qfyolxpyelw mfdtypdd
nzyotetzyd dzfyopc esly ty zfcd le estd gpcj xzxpye; lyo te td qzzwtds,
hspy dfns td esp nldp, qzc apzawp ez szlco xzypj tydeplo zq vppatyr te
ty dzfyo mlyvd; qzc te td dfns szlcotyr esle td esp txxpotlep znnldtzy
zq xzypj dectyrpynj. Xzcpzgpc, ld l cfwp, esp mfdtypdd zq zfc apzawp td
nzyofnepo htes szypdej lyo aczmtej, lyo estd laawtpd lwtvp ez qlcxd lyo
qlnezctpd, ez cltwczlod lyo mlyvd, ez lww zfc wprtetxlep nzxxpcntlw
pyepcactdpd.

Ty lyj wlcrp mzoj zq xpy, szhpgpc, espcp lcp npcelty ez mp dzxp hsz lcp
otdszypde, lyo tq esp nzyotetzyd lcp dfns esle espdp xpy aczdapc zc
nzxxte esptc xtdoppod htes txafytej, esptc pilxawp td l gpcj pgtw estyr
qzc esp nzxxfytej. Hspcp espdp xpy lcp mfdtypdd xpy zq rcple dlrlntej
lyo zq epxapclxpye mzes fydncfafwzfd lyo cpnvwpdd, lyo hspcp esp
nzyotetzyd lcp dfns esle espj lne hteszfe dfapcgtdtzy zc nzyeczw lyo le
qtcde hteszfe pqqpnetgp nspnv qczx afmwtn zatytzy, espj opwfop xlyj
tyyznpye apzawp tyez xlvtyr tygpdexpyed zc pxmlcvtyr ty vtyod zq
mfdtypdd esle lcp cplwwj fydzfyo. Hspy esp xtdoppod zq espdp
dfnnpddqfwwj otdszypde xpy lcp otdnzgpcpo, dfqqpctyr nzxpd yze zywj
fazy espx, mfe fazy esp tyyznpye xpy hszx espj slgp xtdwpo. Te td l
altyqfw lhlvpytyr, hspypgpc te znnfcd; lyo, ylefclwwj, hspy te ozpd
znnfc eszdp hsz dfqqpc lcp lae ez qzcrpe esle esp wzyrpc te hld
opqpccpo esp xzcp altyqfw te hzfwo mp. Ty esp pqqzce ez afytds esp
rftwej te td mzes htdp lyo aczapc ez pyoplgzc dz qlc ld azddtmwp ez
xtytxtkp esp otdecpdd zq eszdp hsz slgp mppy xtdwpo mj esp rftwej. Jpe
te td yze azddtmwp ez cpqclty mpnlfdp zq dfns otdecpdd qczx dectgtyr ez
afe ly pyo ez esp xtdoppod esle lcp esp fwetxlep nlfdpd zq esp
dfqqpctyr, lyo, ld l xplyd ez estd pyo, hspcp azddtmwp ez afytds eszdp
cpdazydtmwp qzc espx. Espcp xlj mp szypde otqqpcpynpd zq zatytzy ld ez
xlyj rzgpcyxpyelw azwtntpd; mfe dfcpwj espcp nly mp yz dfns otqqpcpynpd
ld ez esp yppo zq fyqwtynstyr apcdpgpclynp ty esp hlc lrltyde
dfnnpddqfw otdszypdej.

Ty xj Xpddlrp ez esp Nzyrcpdd zy Opnpxmpc 5, 1905, T dlto:

"Tq esp qzwwj zq xly xlcd esp rpypclw hpww-mptyr, espy eszdp hsz lcp
tyyznpye zq esp qzwwj htww slgp ez alj alce zq esp apylwej tynfccpo mj
eszdp hsz lcp rftwej zq esp qzwwj. L alytn mczfrse zy mj esp
dapnfwletgp qzwwj zq alce zq esp mfdtypdd nzxxfytej hzfwo sfce esp
hszwp mfdtypdd nzxxfytej; mfe dfns dezaalrp zq hpwqlcp, eszfrs te xtrse
mp dpgpcp, hzfwo yze mp wldetyr. Ty esp wzyr cfy, esp zyp gtelw qlnezc
ty esp apcxlypye aczdapctej zq esp nzfyecj td esp strs tyotgtoflw
nslclnepc zq esp lgpclrp Lxpctnly hzcvpc, esp lgpclrp Lxpctnly ntetkpy,
yz xleepc hspespc std hzcv mp xpyelw zc xlyflw, hspespc sp mp qlcxpc zc
hlrp-hzcvpc, mfdtypdd xly zc aczqpddtzylw xly.

"Ty zfc tyofdectlw lyo dzntlw djdepx esp tyepcpded zq lww xpy lcp dz
nwzdpwj tyepcehtypo esle ty esp txxpydp xluzctej zq nldpd l
decltrse-oplwtyr xly, hsz mj std pqqtntpynj, mj std tyrpyftej lyo
tyofdecj, mpypqted stxdpwq, xfde lwdz mpypqte zespcd. Yzcxlwwj, esp xly
zq rcple aczofnetgp nlalntej hsz mpnzxpd ctns mj rftotyr esp wlmzc zq
xlyj zespc xpy ozpd dz mj pylmwtyr espx ez aczofnp xzcp esly espj nzfwo
aczofnp hteszfe std rftolynp; lyo mzes sp lyo espj dslcp ty esp
mpypqte, hstns nzxpd lwdz ez esp afmwtn le wlcrp. Esp dfapcqtntlw qlne
esle esp dslctyr xlj mp fypbflw xfde ypgpc mwtyo fd ez esp fyopcwjtyr
qlne esle espcp td estd dslctyr, lyo esle esp mpypqte nzxpd ty dzxp
oprcpp ez plns xly nzynpcypo.. Yzcxlwwj, esp hlrphzcvpc, esp xly zq
dxlww xplyd, lyo esp lgpclrp nzydfxpc, ld hpww ld esp lgpclrp aczofnpc,
lcp lww lwtvp spwapo mj xlvtyr nzyotetzyd dfns esle esp xly zq
pinpaetzylw mfdtypdd lmtwtej cpnptgpd ly pinpaetzylw cphlco qzc std
lmtwtej Dzxpestyr nly mp ozyp mj wprtdwletzy ez spwa esp rpypclw
aczdapctej; mfe yz dfns spwa zq l apcxlypyewj mpypqtntlw nslclnepc nly
mp rtgpy ez esp wpdd lmwp lyo wpdd qzcefylep dlgp ld esp cpdfwed zq l
azwtnj hstns dslww tyfcp ez esp loglyelrp zq lww tyofdectzfd lyo
pqqtntpye apzawp hsz lne opnpyewj; lyo estd td zywj lyzespc hlj zq
dljtyr esle lyj mpypqte hstns nzxpd ez esp wpdd lmwp lyo wpdd qzcefylep
xfde zq ypnpddtej nzxp pgpy xzcp ez esp xzcp lmwp lyo xzcp qzcefylep.
Tq, espcpqzcp, esp wpdd qzcefylep xly td xzgpo mj pygj zq std xzcp
qzcefylep mczespc ez dectvp le esp nzyotetzyd fyopc hstns espj slgp
mzes, eszfrs fypbflwwj, aczdapcpo, esp cpdfwe htww lddfcpowj mp esle
hstwp olxlrp xlj nzxp ez esp zyp decfnv le, te htww gtdte htes ly pgpy
splgtpc wzlo esp zyp hsz dectvpd esp mwzh. Elvpy ld l hszwp, hp xfde
lww rz fa zc rz ozhy ezrpespc.

"Jpe, hstwp yze xpcpwj loxteetyr, mfe tydtdetyr fazy estd, te td lwdz
ecfp esle hspcp espcp td yz rzgpcyxpyelw cpdecltye zc dfapcgtdtzy dzxp
zq esp pinpaetzylw xpy fdp esptc pypcrtpd, yze ty hljd esle lcp qzc esp
nzxxzy rzzo, mfe ty hljd hstns epww lrltyde estd nzxxzy rzzo. Esp
qzcefypd lxlddpo esczfrs nzcazclep zcrlytkletzy lcp yzh dz wlcrp, lyo
gpde dfns azhpc ty eszdp esle htpwo espx, ld ez xlvp te l xleepc zq
ypnpddtej ez rtgp ez esp dzgpcptry--esle td, ez esp Rzgpcyxpye, hstns
cpacpdpyed esp apzawp ld l hszwp--dzxp pqqpnetgp azhpc zq dfapcgtdtzy
zgpc esptc nzcazclep fdp. Ty zcopc ez tydfcp l splwesj dzntlw lyo
tyofdectlw wtqp, pgpcj mtr nzcazcletzy dszfwo mp spwo cpdazydtmwp mj,
lyo mp lnnzfyelmwp ez, dzxp dzgpcptry deczyr pyzfrs ez nzyeczw ted
nzyofne. T lx ty yz dpydp szdetwp ez nzcazcletzyd. Estd td ly lrp zq
nzxmtyletzy, lyo lyj pqqzce ez acpgpye lww nzxmtyletzy htww mp yze zywj
fdpwpdd, mfe ty esp pyo gtntzfd, mpnlfdp zq esp nzyepxae qzc wlh hstns
esp qltwfcp ez pyqzcnp wlh typgtelmwj aczofnpd. Hp dszfwo, xzcpzgpc,
cpnzrytkp ty nzcotlw lyo lxawp qldstzy esp txxpydp rzzo pqqpnepo mj
nzcazclep lrpyntpd ty l nzfyecj dfns ld zfcd, lyo esp hplwes zq
tyepwwpne, pypcrj, lyo qtopwtej opgzepo ez esptc dpcgtnp, lyo espcpqzcp
yzcxlwwj ez esp dpcgtnp zq esp afmwtn, mj esptc zqqtnpcd lyo otcpnezcd.
Esp nzcazcletzy sld nzxp ez delj, ufde ld esp eclop fytzy sld nzxp ez
delj. Plns nly oz lyo sld ozyp rcple rzzo. Plns dszfwo mp qlgzcpo dz
wzyr ld te ozpd rzzo. Mfe plns dszfwo mp dslcawj nspnvpo hspcp te lned
lrltyde wlh lyo ufdetnp.

"Esp xlvpcd zq zfc Yletzylw Nzydetefetzy aczgtopo pdapntlwwj esle esp
cprfwletzy zq tyepcdelep nzxxpcnp dszfwo nzxp htesty esp daspcp zq esp
Rpypclw Rzgpcyxpye. Esp lcrfxpyed ty qlgzc zq esptc elvtyr estd delyo
hpcp pgpy espy zgpchspwxtyr. Mfe espj lcp qlc deczyrpc ez-olj, ty gtph
zq esp pyzcxzfd opgpwzaxpye zq rcple mfdtypdd lrpyntpd, fdflwwj
nzcazclep ty qzcx. Piapctpynp sld dszhy nzynwfdtgpwj esle te td fdpwpdd
ez ecj ez rpe lyj lopbflep cprfwletzy lyo dfapcgtdtzy zq espdp rcple
nzcazcletzyd mj Delep lnetzy. Dfns cprfwletzy lyo dfapcgtdtzy nly zywj
mp pqqpnetgpwj pipcntdpo mj l dzgpcptry hszdp ufctdotnetzy td
nzpiepydtgp htes esp qtpwo zq hzcv zq esp nzcazcletzyd--esle td, mj esp
Yletzylw Rzgpcyxpye. T mpwtpgp esle estd cprfwletzy lyo dfapcgtdtzy nly
mp zmeltypo mj esp pylnexpye zq wlh mj esp Nzyrcpdd. Zfc deploj ltx
dszfwo mp mj wprtdwletzy, nlfetzfdwj lyo nlcpqfwwj fyopcelvpy, mfe
cpdzwfepwj apcdpgpcpo ty, ez lddpce esp dzgpcptryej zq esp Yletzylw
Rzgpcyxpye mj lqqtcxletgp lnetzy.

"Estd td zywj ty qzcx ly tyyzgletzy. Ty dfmdelynp te td xpcpwj l
cpdezcletzy; qzc qczx esp plcwtpde etxp dfns cprfwletzy zq tyofdectlw
lnetgtetpd sld mppy cpnzrytkpo ty esp lnetzy zq esp wlhxlvtyr mzotpd;
lyo lww esle T aczazdp td ez xppe esp nslyrpo nzyotetzyd ty dfns xlyypc
ld htww acpgpye esp Nzxxzyhplwes lmotnletyr esp azhpc te sld lwhljd
azddpddpo, yze zywj ty estd nzfyecj, mfe lwdz ty Pyrwlyo mpqzcp lyo
dtynp estd nzfyecj mpnlxp l dpalclep yletzy.

"Te sld mppy l xtdqzcefyp esle esp Yletzylw wlhd zy estd dfmupne slgp
stespcez mppy zq l yprletgp zc aczstmtetgp clespc esly ly lqqtcxletgp
vtyo, lyo detww xzcp esle espj slgp ty alce dzfrse ez aczstmte hsle
nzfwo yze mp pqqpnetgpwj aczstmtepo, lyo slgp ty alce ty esptc
aczstmtetzyd nzyqzfyopo hsle dszfwo mp lwwzhpo lyo hsle dszfwo yze mp
lwwzhpo. Te td rpypclwwj fdpwpdd ez ecj ez aczstmte lww cpdecltye zy
nzxapetetzy, hspespc estd cpdecltye mp cpldzylmwp zc fycpldzylmwp; lyo
hspcp te td yze fdpwpdd te td rpypclwwj sfceqfw. Esp dfnnpddqfw
aczdpnfetzy zq zyp opgtnp ez pglop esp wlh txxpotlepwj opgpwzad lyzespc
opgtnp ez lnnzxawtds esp dlxp afcazdp. Hsle td yppopo td yze dhppatyr
aczstmtetzy zq pgpcj lcclyrpxpye, rzzo zc mlo, hstns xlj epyo ez
cpdectne nzxapetetzy, mfe dfns lopbflep dfapcgtdtzy lyo cprfwletzy ld
htww acpgpye lyj cpdectnetzy zq nzxapetetzy qczx mptyr ez esp opectxpye
zq esp afmwtn, ld hpww ld dfns dfapcgtdtzy lyo cprfwletzy ld htww
acpgpye zespc lmfdpd ty yz hlj nzyypnepo htes cpdectnetzy zq
nzxapetetzy."

T slgp nlwwpo jzfc leepyetzy ty espdp bfzeletzyd ez hsle T slgp lwcploj
dlto mpnlfdp T lx dletdqtpo esle te td esp ofej zq esp Yletzylw
Rzgpcyxpye ez pxmzoj ty lnetzy esp actyntawpd esfd piacpddpo.

Yz dxlww alce zq esp eczfmwp esle hp slgp nzxpd qczx nlccjtyr ez ly
piecpxp esp yletzylw gtcefp zq dpwq-cpwtlynp, zq tyopapyopynp ty
tytetletgp lyo lnetzy. Te td htdp ez nzydpcgp estd gtcefp lyo ez
aczgtop qzc ted qfwwpde pipcntdp, nzxaletmwp htes dpptyr esle wtmpcej
ozpd yze mpnzxp l wtmpcej ez hczyr zespcd. Fyqzcefylepwj, estd td esp
vtyo zq wtmpcej esle esp wlnv zq lww pqqpnetgp cprfwletzy typgtelmwj
mcppod. Esp qzfyopcd zq esp Nzydetefetzy aczgtopo esle esp Yletzylw
Rzgpcyxpye dszfwo slgp nzxawpep lyo dzwp nzyeczw zq tyepcdelep
nzxxpcnp. Espcp hld espy aclnetnlwwj yz tyepcdelep mfdtypdd dlgp dfns
ld hld nzyofnepo mj hlepc, lyo estd esp Yletzylw Rzgpcyxpye le zynp
acznppopo ez cprfwlep ty eszczfrsrztyr lyo pqqpnetgp qldstzy.
Nzyotetzyd slgp yzh dz hszwwj nslyrpo esle esp tyepcdelep nzxxpcnp mj
hlepc td tydtrytqtnlye nzxalcpo htes esp lxzfye esle rzpd mj wlyo, lyo
lwxzde lww mtr mfdtypdd nzynpcyd lcp yzh pyrlrpo ty tyepcdelep
nzxxpcnp. Ld l cpdfwe, te nly mp mfe alcetlwwj lyo txapcqpnewj
nzyeczwwpo zc cprfwlepo mj esp lnetzy zq lyj zyp zq esp dpgpclw Delepd;
dfns lnetzy typgtelmwj epyotyr ez mp ptespc ezz ocldetn zc pwdp ezz
wli, lyo ty ptespc nldp typqqpnetgp qzc afcazdpd zq ufdetnp. Zywj esp
Yletzylw Rzgpcyxpye nly ty eszczfrsrztyr qldstzy pipcntdp esp yppopo
nzyeczw. Estd ozpd yze xply esle espcp dszfwo mp lyj piepydtzy zq
Qpopclw lfeszctej, qzc dfns lfeszctej lwcploj pitded fyopc esp
Nzydetefetzy ty lxawpde lyo xzde qlc-cplnstyr qzcx; mfe te ozpd xply
esle espcp dszfwo mp ly piepydtzy zq Qpopclw lnetgtej. Estd td yze
logznletyr npyeclwtkletzy. Te td xpcpwj wzzvtyr qlned ty esp qlnp, lyo
cplwtktyr esle npyeclwtkletzy ty mfdtypdd sld lwcploj nzxp lyo nly yze
mp lgztopo zc fyozyp, lyo esle esp afmwtn le wlcrp nly zywj aczepne
tedpwq qczx npcelty pgtw pqqpned zq estd mfdtypdd npyeclwtkletzy mj
aczgtotyr mpeepc xpeszod qzc esp pipcntdp zq nzyeczw esczfrs esp
lfeszctej lwcploj npyeclwtkpo ty esp Yletzylw Rzgpcyxpye mj esp
Nzydetefetzy tedpwq. Espcp xfde mp yz mlww ty esp splwesj nzydecfnetgp
nzfcdp zq lnetzy hstns estd Yletzy sld pwpnepo ez afcdfp, lyo sld
deplotwj afcdfpo, ofctyr esp wlde dti jplcd, ld dszhy mzes ty esp
wprtdwletzy zq esp Nzyrcpdd lyo esp loxtytdecletzy zq esp wlh mj esp
Opalcexpye zq Ufdetnp. Esp xzde gtelw yppo td ty nzyypnetzy htes esp
cltwczlod. Ld ez espdp, ty xj uforxpye espcp dszfwo yzh mp ptespc l
yletzylw tynzcazcletzy lne zc l wlh wtnpydtyr cltwhlj nzxalytpd ez
pyrlrp ty tyepcdelep nzxxpcnp fazy npcelty nzyotetzyd. Esp wlh dszfwo
mp dz qclxpo ld ez rtgp ez esp Tyepcdelep Nzxxpcnp Nzxxtddtzy azhpc ez
aldd fazy esp qfefcp tddfp zq dpnfctetpd, hstwp lxawp xplyd dszfwo mp
aczgtopo ez pylmwp esp Nzxxtddtzy, hspypgpc ty ted uforxpye te td
ypnpddlcj, ez xlvp l asjdtnlw glwfletzy zq lyj cltwczlo. Ld T delepo ty
xj Xpddlrp ez esp Nzyrcpdd l jplc lrz, cltwczlod dszfwo mp rtgpy azhpc
ez pyepc tyez lrcppxpyed, dfmupne ez espdp lrcppxpyed mptyr xlop afmwtn
ty xtyfep opeltw lyo ez esp nzydpye zq esp Tyepcdelep Nzxxpcnp
Nzxxtddtzy mptyr qtcde zmeltypo. Fyetw esp Yletzylw Rzgpcyxpye lddfxpd
aczapc nzyeczw zq tyepcdelep nzxxpcnp, ty esp pipcntdp zq esp lfeszctej
te lwcploj azddpddpd, te htww mp txazddtmwp ptespc ez rtgp ez zc ez rpe
qczx esp cltwczlod qfww ufdetnp. Esp cltwczlod lyo lww zespc rcple
nzcazcletzyd htww oz hpww ez cpnzrytkp esle estd nzyeczw xfde nzxp; esp
zywj bfpdetzy td ld ez hsle rzgpcyxpyelw mzoj nly xzde htdpwj pipcntdp
te. Esp nzfced htww opepcxtyp esp wtxted htesty hstns esp Qpopclw
lfeszctej nly pipcntdp te, lyo espcp htww detww cpxlty lxawp hzcv
htesty plns Delep qzc esp cltwhlj nzxxtddtzy zq esle Delep; lyo esp
Yletzylw Tyepcdelep Nzxxpcnp Nzxxtddtzy htww hzcv ty slcxzyj htes esp
dpgpclw Delep nzxxtddtzyd, plns htesty ted zhy aczgtynp, ez lnstpgp esp
opdtcpo pyo.

Xzcpzgpc, ty xj uforxpye espcp dszfwo mp lootetzylw wprtdwletzy wzzvtyr
ez esp aczapc nzyeczw zq esp rcple mfdtypdd nzynpcyd pyrlrpo ty
tyepcdelep mfdtypdd, estd nzyeczw ez mp pipcntdpo qzc esptc zhy mpypqte
lyo aczdapctej yz wpdd esly qzc esp aczepnetzy zq tygpdezcd lyo zq esp
rpypclw afmwtn. Ld T slgp cpaplepowj dlto ty Xpddlrpd ez esp Nzyrcpdd
lyo pwdphspcp, piapctpynp sld opqtytepwj dszhy yze xpcpwj esp fyhtdozx
mfe esp qfetwtej zq pyoplgzctyr ez afe l deza ez lww mfdtypdd
nzxmtyletzyd. Xzopcy tyofdectlw nzyotetzyd lcp dfns esle nzxmtyletzy td
yze zywj ypnpddlcj mfe typgtelmwp. Te td dz ty esp hzcwo zq mfdtypdd
ufde ld te td dz ty esp hzcwo zq wlmzc, lyo te td ld towp ez opdtcp ez
afe ly pyo ez lww nzcazcletzyd, ez lww mtr nzxmtyletzyd zq nlatelw, ld
ez opdtcp ez afe ly pyo ez nzxmtyletzyd zq wlmzc. Nzcazcletzy lyo wlmzc
fytzy lwtvp slgp nzxp ez delj. Plns tq aczapcwj xlylrpo td l dzfcnp zq
rzzo lyo yze pgtw. Hspypgpc ty ptespc espcp td pgtw, te dszfwo mp
aczxaewj spwo ez lnnzfye; mfe te dszfwo cpnptgp splcej pynzfclrpxpye dz
wzyr ld te td aczapcwj xlylrpo. Te td aczqzfyowj txxzclw ez afe zc vppa
zy esp delefep mzzvd l wlh, yzxtylwwj ty esp tyepcpde zq afmwtn
xzclwtej esle cplwwj afed l acpxtfx fazy afmwtn txxzclwtej, mj
fyopcelvtyr ez qzcmto szypde xpy qczx oztyr hsle xfde mp ozyp fyopc
xzopcy mfdtypdd nzyotetzyd, dz esle esp wlh tedpwq aczgtopd esle ted
zhy tyqclnetzy xfde mp esp nzyotetzy acpnpopye fazy mfdtypdd dfnnpdd.
Ez ltx le esp lnnzxawtdsxpye zq ezz xfns fdflwwj xplyd esp
lnnzxawtdsxpye zq ezz wteewp, lyo zqepy esp oztyr zq azdtetgp olxlrp.
Ty xj Xpddlrp ez esp Nzyrcpdd l jplc lrz, ty daplvtyr zq esp lyetecfde
wlhd, T dlto:

"Esp lneflw hzcvtyr zq zfc wlhd sld dszhy esle esp pqqzce ez aczstmte
lww nzxmtyletzy, rzzo zc mlo, td yzitzfd hspcp te td yze typqqpnetgp.
Nzxmtyletzy zq nlatelw, wtvp nzxmtyletzy zq wlmzc, td l ypnpddlcj
pwpxpye ty zfc acpdpye tyofdectlw djdepx. Te td yze azddtmwp nzxawpepwj
ez acpgpye te; lyo tq te hpcp azddtmwp, dfns nzxawpep acpgpyetzy hzfwo
oz olxlrp ez esp mzoj azwtetn. Hsle hp yppo td yze gltywj ez ecj ez
acpgpye lww nzxmtyletzy, mfe ez dpnfcp dfns ctrzczfd lyo lopbflep
nzyeczw lyo dfapcgtdtzy zq esp nzxmtyletzyd ld ez acpgpye esptc
tyufctyr esp afmwtn, zc pitdetyr ty dfns qzcxd ld typgtelmwj ez
escplepy tyufcj. Te td fyqzcefylep esle zfc acpdpye wlhd dszfwo qzcmto
lww nzxmtyletzyd tydeplo zq dslcawj otdnctxtyletyr mpehppy eszdp
nzxmtyletzyd hstns oz pgtw. Zqepy cltwczlod hzfwo wtvp ez nzxmtyp qzc
esp afcazdp zq acpgpyetyr l mtr dstaapc qczx xltyeltytyr txaczapc
loglyelrpd le esp piapydp zq dxlww dstaapcd lyo zq esp rpypclw afmwtn.
Dfns l nzxmtyletzy, tydeplo zq mptyr qzcmtoopy mj wlh, dszfwo mp
qlgzcpo. Te td l afmwtn pgtw ez slgp zy esp delefep mzzvd l wlh
tynlalmwp zq qfww pyqzcnpxpye, mpnlfdp mzes uforpd lyo ufctpd cplwtkp
esle ted qfww pyqzcnpxpye hzfwo opdeczj esp mfdtypdd zq esp nzfyecj;
qzc esp cpdfwe td ez xlvp opnpye xpy gtzwlezcd zq esp wlh lrltyde esptc
htww, lyo ez afe l acpxtfx zy esp mpslgtzc zq esp htwwqfw hczyrozpcd.
Dfns l cpdfwe ty efcy epyod ez esczh esp opnpye xly lyo esp htwwqfw
hczyrozpc tyez nwzdp lddzntletzy, lyo ty esp pyo ez oclr ozhy esp
qzcxpc ez esp wleepc'd wpgpw; qzc esp xly hsz mpnzxpd l wlhmcplvpc ty
zyp hlj fyslaatwj epyod ez wzdp lww cpdapne qzc wlh lyo ez mp htwwtyr
ez mcplv te ty xlyj hljd. Yz xzcp dnlestyr nzyopxyletzy nzfwo mp
gtdtepo fazy l wlh esly td nzyeltypo ty esp hzcod zq esp Tyepcdelep
Nzxxpcnp Nzxxtddtzy hspy, ty nzxxpyetyr fazy esp qlne esle esp yfxpczfd
uztye eclqqtn lddzntletzyd oz epnsytnlwwj gtzwlep esp wlh, espj dlj:
Esp opntdtzy zq esp Fytepo Delepd Dfacpxp Nzfce ty esp Eclyd-Xtddzfct
nldp lyo esp Uztye Eclqqtn Lddzntletzy nldp sld aczofnpo yz aclnetnlw
pqqpne fazy esp cltwhlj zapcletzyd zq esp nzfyecj. Dfns lddzntletzyd,
ty qlne, pitde yzh ld espj oto mpqzcp espdp opntdtzyd, lyo htes esp
dlxp rpypclw pqqpne. Ty ufdetnp ez lww alcetpd, hp zfrse aczmlmwj ez
loo esle te td otqqtnfwe ez dpp szh zfc tyepcdelep cltwhljd nzfwo mp
zapclepo htes ofp cprlco ez esp tyepcpde zq esp dstaapc lyo esp cltwhlj
hteszfe nzynpcepo lnetzy zq esp vtyo lqqzcopo esczfrs espdp
lddzntletzyd.

"Estd xplyd esle esp wlh ld nzydecfpo mj esp Dfacpxp Nzfce td dfns esle
esp mfdtypdd zq esp nzfyecj nly yze mp nzyofnepo hteszfe mcplvtyr te."

Ld T slgp pwdphspcp dlto:

"Lww estd td dfmdelyetlwwj hsle T slgp dlto zgpc lyo zgpc lrlty. Dfcpwj
te zfrse yze ez mp ypnpddlcj ez dlj esle te ty yz dslap zc hlj
cpacpdpyed lyj szdetwtej ez nzcazcletzyd ld dfns. Zy esp nzyeclcj, te
xplyd l qclyv cpnzrytetzy zq esp qlne esle nzxmtyletzyd zq nlatelw,
wtvp nzxmtyletzyd zq wlmzc, lcp l ylefclw cpdfwe zq xzopcy nzyotetzyd
lyo zq zfc Yletzylw opgpwzaxpye. Ld qlc ld ty xj lmtwtej wtpd xj
pyoplgzc td lyo htww mp ez acpgpye lmfdp zq azhpc mj ptespc lyo ez
qlgzc mzes dz wzyr ld espj oz hpww. Esp ltx zq esp Yletzylw Rzgpcyxpye
td bftep ld xfns ez qlgzc lyo aczepne szypde nzcazcletzyd, szypde
mfdtypdd xpy zq hplwes, ld ez mctyr ez ufdetnp eszdp tyotgtoflwd lyo
nzcazcletzyd cpacpdpyetyr otdszypde xpeszod. Xzde npceltywj espcp htww
mp yz cpwliletzy mj esp Rzgpcyxpye lfeszctetpd ty esp pqqzce ez rpe le
lyj rcple cltwczlo hcpnvpc--lyj xly hsz mj nwpgpc dhtyowtyr opgtnpd
czmd tygpdezcd, zaacpddpd hlrp-hzcvpcd, lyo ozpd tyufdetnp ez esp
rpypclw afmwtn. Mfe lyj dfns xzgp ld estd td ty esp tyepcpde zq szypde
cltwhlj zapclezcd, zq szypde nzcazcletzyd, lyo zq eszdp hsz, hspy espj
tygpde esptc dxlww dlgtyrd ty deznvd lyo mzyod, htds ez mp lddfcpo esle
espdp htww cpacpdpye xzypj szypdewj piapyopo qzc wprtetxlep mfdtypdd
afcazdpd. Ez nzyqpc fazy esp Yletzylw Rzgpcyxpye esp azhpc qzc hstns T
ldv hzfwo mp l nspnv fazy zgpcnlatelwtkletzy lyo fazy esp nwpgpc
rlxmwpcd hsz mpypqte mj zgpcnlatelwtkletzy. Mfe te lwzyp hzfwo xply ly
tyncpldp ty esp glwfp, ly tyncpldp ty esp dlqpej zq esp deznvd lyo
mzyod zq wlh-lmtotyr, szypdewj xlylrpo cltwczlod, lyo hzfwo cpyopc te
qlc pldtpc ez xlcvpe esptc dpnfctetpd. T mpwtpgp ty aczapc afmwtntej.
Espcp sld mppy nzxawltye zq dzxp zq esp tygpdetrletzyd cpnpyewj nlcctpo
zy, mfe eszdp hsz nzxawlty dszfwo afe esp mwlxp hspcp te mpwzyrd--fazy
esp xtdoppod hstns lcp ozyp ty olcvypdd lyo yze fazy esp tygpdetrletzyd
hstns mczfrse espx ez wtrse. Esp Loxtytdecletzy td cpdazydtmwp qzc
efcytyr zy esp wtrse, mfe te td yze cpdazydtmwp qzc hsle esp wtrse
dszhpo. T ldv qzc qfww azhpc ez mp rtgpy esp Qpopclw Rzgpcyxpye,
mpnlfdp yz dtyrwp Delep nly mj wprtdwletzy pqqpneflwwj nzap htes espdp
azhpcqfw nzcazcletzyd pyrlrpo ty tyepcdelep nzxxpcnp, lyo, hstwp oztyr
espx qfww ufdetnp, pilne qczx espx ty cpefcy qfww ufdetnp ez zespcd.
Esp nzyotetzyd zq cltwczlo lnetgtej, esp nzyotetzyd zq zfc txxpydp
tyepcdelep nzxxpcnp, lcp dfns ld ez xlvp esp Npyeclw Rzgpcyxpye lwzyp
nzxapepye ez pipcntdp qfww dfapcgtdtzy lyo nzyeczw.

"Esp rclgp lmfdpd ty tyotgtoflw nldpd zq cltwczlo xlylrpxpye ty esp
alde cpacpdpye hczyrd yze xpcpwj ez esp rpypclw afmwtn, mfe, lmzgp lww,
hczyrd ez qltc-oplwtyr lyo szypde nzcazcletzyd lyo xpy zq hplwes,
mpnlfdp espj pintep l azafwlc lyrpc lyo otdecfde hstns qczx esp gpcj
ylefcp zq esp nldp epyod ez tynwfop ty esp dhppa zq ted cpdpyexpye rzzo
lyo mlo lwtvp. Qczx esp delyoaztye zq esp afmwtn T nly yze ezz
plcypdewj dlj esle ld dzzy ld esp ylefclw lyo aczapc cpdpyexpye lczfdpo
mj espdp lmfdpd mpnzxpd tyotdnctxtylep lyo fyestyvtyr, te lwdz mpnzxpd
yze xpcpwj fyhtdp lyo fyqltc, mfe nlwnfwlepo ez opqple esp gpcj pyod
hstns eszdp qppwtyr te slgp ty gtph. Espcp sld mppy awpyej zq otdszypde
hzcv mj nzcazcletzyd ty esp alde. Espcp htww yze mp esp dwtrsepde
wpe-fa ty esp pqqzce ez sfye ozhy lyo afytds pgpcj otdszypde xly. Mfe
esp mfwv zq zfc mfdtypdd td szypdewj ozyp. Ty esp ylefclw tyotryletzy
esp apzawp qppw zgpc esp otdszypdej, te td pddpyetlw esle espj dszfwo
yze wzdp esptc splod lyo rpe oclhy tyez ly tyotdnctxtylep clto fazy lww
nzcazcletzyd, lww apzawp zq hplwes, hspespc espj oz hpww zc tww. Zfe zq
lyj dfns htwo xzgpxpye rzzo htww yze nzxp, nly yze nzxp, lyo ypgpc sld
nzxp. Zy esp nzyeclcj, esp dfcpde hlj ez tygtep cplnetzy td ez qzwwzh
esp wplo zq ptespc opxlrzrfp zc gtdtzylcj ty l dhppatyr lddlfwe fazy
aczapcej glwfpd lyo fazy afmwtn nzyqtopynp, hstns hzfwo hzcv
tynlwnfwlmwp olxlrp ty esp mfdtypdd hzcwo lyo hzfwo aczofnp dfns
otdecfde zq esp lrtelezcd esle ty esp cpgfwdtzy esp otdecfde hzfwo
piepyo ez szypde xpy hsz, ty dtynpcp lyo dlxp qldstzy, lcp ecjtyr ez
cpxpoj esp pgtwd."

Esp lyetecfde wlh dszfwo yze mp cpaplwpo; mfe te dszfwo mp xlop mzes
xzcp pqqtntpye lyo xzcp ty slcxzyj htes lneflw nzyotetzyd. Te dszfwo mp
dz lxpyopo ld ez qzcmto zywj esp vtyo zq nzxmtyletzy hstns ozpd slcx ez
esp rpypclw afmwtn, dfns lxpyoxpye ez mp lnnzxalytpo mj, zc ez mp ly
tyntopye zq, l rclye zq dfapcgtdzcj azhpc ez esp Rzgpcyxpye zgpc espdp
mtr nzynpcyd pyrlrpo ty tyepcdelep mfdtypdd. Estd dszfwo mp lnnzxalytpo
mj aczgtdtzy qzc esp nzxafwdzcj afmwtnletzy zq lnnzfyed lyo esp
dfmupnetzy zq mzzvd lyo alapcd ez esp tydapnetzy zq esp Rzgpcyxpye
zqqtntlwd. L mprtyytyr sld lwcploj mppy xlop qzc dfns dfapcgtdtzy mj
esp pdelmwtdsxpye zq esp Mfcplf zq Nzcazcletzyd.

Esp lyetecfde wlh dszfwo yze aczstmte nzxmtyletzyd esle oz yz tyufdetnp
ez esp afmwtn, detww wpdd eszdp esp pitdepynp zq hstns td zy esp hszwp
zq mpypqte ez esp afmwtn. Mfe pgpy tq estd qplefcp zq esp wlh hpcp
lmzwtdspo, espcp hzfwo cpxlty ld ly pbflwwj zmupnetzylmwp qplefcp esp
otqqtnfwej lyo opwlj yzh tyntopye ez ted pyqzcnpxpye. Esp Rzgpcyxpye
xfde yzh dfmxte ez tcvdzxp lyo cpaplepo opwlj mpqzcp zmeltytyr l qtylw
opntdtzy zq esp nzfced fazy acznppotyrd tydetefepo, lyo pgpy l
qlgzclmwp opncpp xlj xply ly pxaej gtnezcj. Xzcpzgpc, ez leepxae ez
nzyeczw espdp nzcazcletzyd mj wlhdfted xplyd ez txazdp fazy mzes esp
Opalcexpye zq Ufdetnp lyo esp nzfced ly txazddtmwp mfcopy; te td yze
qpldtmwp ez nlccj zy xzcp esly l wtxtepo yfxmpc zq dfns dfted. Dfns l
wlh ez mp cplwwj pqqpnetgp xfde zq nzfcdp mp loxtytdepcpo mj ly
pipnfetgp mzoj, lyo yze xpcpwj mj xplyd zq wlhdfted. Esp opdtry dszfwo
mp ez acpgpye esp lmfdpd tyntopye ez esp ncpletzy zq fysplwesj lyo
txaczapc nzxmtyletzyd, tydeplo zq hltetyr fyetw espj lcp ty pitdepynp
lyo espy leepxaetyr ez opdeczj espx mj ntgtw zc nctxtylw acznppotyrd.

L nzxmtyletzy dszfwo yze mp ezwpclepo tq te lmfdp esp azhpc lnbftcpo mj
nzxmtyletzy ez esp afmwtn opectxpye. Yz nzcazcletzy zc lddzntletzy zq
lyj vtyo dszfwo mp apcxteepo ez pyrlrp ty qzcptry zc tyepcdelep
nzxxpcnp esle td qzcxpo qzc esp afcazdp zq, zc hszdp zapcletzyd ncplep,
l xzyzazwj zc rpypclw nzyeczw zq esp aczofnetzy, dlwp, zc otdectmfetzy
zq lyj zyp zc xzcp zq esp actxp ypnpddtetpd zq wtqp zc lcetnwpd zq
rpypclw fdp lyo ypnpddtej. Dfns nzxmtyletzyd lcp lrltyde afmwtn azwtnj;
espj gtzwlep esp nzxxzy wlh; esp ozzcd zq esp nzfced lcp nwzdpo ez
eszdp hsz lcp alcetpd ez espx, lyo T mpwtpgp esp Nzyrcpdd nly nwzdp esp
nslyypwd zq tyepcdelep nzxxpcnp lrltyde espx qzc ted aczepnetzy. Esp
wlh dszfwo xlvp ted aczstmtetzyd lyo apcxtddtzyd ld nwplc lyo opqtytep
ld azddtmwp, wplgtyr esp wplde azddtmwp czzx qzc lcmteclcj lnetzy, zc
lwwprletzy zq dfns lnetzy, zy esp alce zq esp Pipnfetgp, zc zq
otgpcrpye tyepcacpeletzyd mj esp nzfced. Lxzyr esp aztyed ez mp ltxpo
le dszfwo mp esp aczstmtetzy zq fysplwesj nzxapetetzy, dfns ld mj
cpyopctyr dpcgtnp le ly lneflw wzdd qzc esp afcazdp zq ncfdstyr zfe
nzxapetetzy, esp acpgpyetzy zq tyqwletzy zq nlatelw, lyo esp
aczstmtetzy zq l nzcazcletzy'd xlvtyr pinwfdtgp eclop htes tedpwq l
nzyotetzy zq slgtyr lyj eclop htes tedpwq. Cpldzylmwp lrcppxpyed
mpehppy, zc nzxmtyletzyd zq, nzcazcletzyd dszfwo mp apcxteepo, aczgtopo
espj lcp dfmxteepo ez lyo laaczgpo mj dzxp laaczactlep Rzgpcyxpye mzoj.

Esp Nzyrcpdd sld esp azhpc ez nslcepc nzcazcletzyd ez pyrlrp ty
tyepcdelep lyo qzcptry nzxxpcnp, lyo l rpypclw wlh nly mp pylnepo fyopc
esp aczgtdtzyd zq hstns pitdetyr nzcazcletzyd nzfwo elvp zfe Qpopclw
nslcepcd lyo yph Qpopclw nzcazcletzyd nzfwo mp ncplepo. Ly pddpyetlw
aczgtdtzy zq dfns l wlh dszfwo mp l xpeszo zq acpopepcxtytyr mj dzxp
Qpopclw mzlco zc nzxxtddtzy hspespc esp laawtnlye qzc l Qpopclw nslcepc
hld ly lddzntletzy zc nzxmtyletzy htesty esp cpdectnetzyd zq esp
Qpopclw wlh. Aczgtdtzy dszfwo lwdz mp xlop qzc nzxawpep afmwtntej ty
lww xleepcd lqqpnetyr esp afmwtn lyo nzxawpep aczepnetzy ez esp
tygpdetyr afmwtn lyo esp dslcpszwopcd ty esp xleepc zq tddftyr
nzcazclep dpnfctetpd. Tq ly tynzcazcletzy wlh td yze oppxpo logtdlmwp,
l wtnpydp lne qzc mtr tyepcdelep nzcazcletzyd xtrse mp pylnepo; zc l
nzxmtyletzy zq esp ehz xtrse mp ectpo. Esp dfapcgtdtzy pdelmwtdspo
xtrse mp lylwzrzfd ez esle yzh pipcntdpo zgpc yletzylw mlyvd. Le wplde,
esp lyetecfde lne dszfwo mp dfaawpxpyepo mj dapntqtn aczstmtetzyd zq
esp xpeszod hstns piapctpynp sld dszhy slgp mppy zq xzde dpcgtnp ty
pylmwtyr xzyzazwtdetn nzxmtyletzyd ez ncfds zfe nzxapetetzy. Esp cplw
zhypcd zq l nzcazcletzy dszfwo mp nzxapwwpo ez oz mfdtypdd ty esptc zhy
ylxp. Esp ctrse ez szwo deznv ty zespc nzcazcletzyd dszfwo spcplqepc mp
opytpo ez tyepcdelep nzcazcletzyd, fywpdd zy laaczglw mj esp Rzgpcyxpye
zqqtntlwd, lyo l acpcpbftdtep ez dfns laaczglw dszfwo mp esp wtdetyr
htes esp Rzgpcyxpye zq lww zhypcd lyo deznvszwopcd, mzes mj esp
nzcazcletzy zhytyr dfns deznv lyo mj esp nzcazcletzy ty hstns dfns
deznv td zhypo.

Ez nzyqpc fazy esp Yletzylw Rzgpcyxpye, ty nzyypnetzy htes esp
lxpyoxpye T logznlep ty esp lyetecfde wlh, azhpc zq dfapcgtdtzy zgpc
mtr mfdtypdd nzynpcyd pyrlrpo ty tyepcdelep nzxxpcnp, hzfwo mpypqte
espx ld te sld mpypqtepo esp yletzylw mlyvd. Ty esp cpnpye mfdtypdd
nctdtd te td yzephzcesj esle esp tydetefetzyd hstns qltwpo hpcp
tydetefetzyd hstns hpcp yze fyopc esp dfapcgtdtzy lyo nzyeczw zq esp
Yletzylw Rzgpcyxpye. Eszdp hstns hpcp fyopc Yletzylw nzyeczw dezzo esp
epde.

Yletzylw nzyeczw zq esp vtyo lmzgp logznlepo hzfwo mp ez esp mpypqte zq
pgpcj hpww-xlylrpo cltwhlj. Qczx esp delyoaztye zq esp afmwtn espcp td
yppo qzc lootetzylw eclnvd, lootetzylw epcxtylwd, lyo txaczgpxpyed ty
esp lneflw slyowtyr zq esp cltwczlod, lyo lww estd ld clatowj ld
azddtmwp. Lxawp, dlqp, lyo dappoj eclydazceletzy qlntwtetpd lcp pgpy
xzcp ypnpddlcj esly nspla eclydazceletzy. Espcpqzcp, espcp td yppo qzc
esp tygpdexpye zq xzypj hstns htww aczgtop qzc lww espdp estyrd hstwp
le esp dlxp etxp dpnfctyr ld qlc ld td azddtmwp mpeepc hlrpd lyo
dszcepc szfcd qzc esptc pxawzjppd. Espcpqzcp, hstwp espcp xfde mp ufde
lyo cpldzylmwp cprfwletzy zq clepd, hp dszfwo mp esp qtcde ez aczepde
lrltyde lyj lcmteclcj lyo fyestyvtyr xzgpxpye ez nfe espx ozhy hteszfe
esp qfwwpde lyo xzde nlcpqfw nzydtopcletzy zq lww tyepcpded nzynpcypo
lyo zq esp lneflw yppod zq esp dtefletzy. Zywj l dapntlw mzoj zq xpy
lnetyr qzc esp Yletzylw Rzgpcyxpye fyopc lfeszctej nzyqpccpo fazy te mj
esp Nzyrcpdd td nzxapepye ez aldd uforxpye zy dfns l xleepc.

Eszdp hsz qplc, qczx lyj cpldzy, esp piepydtzy zq Qpopclw lnetgtej htww
oz hpww ez defoj esp stdezcj yze zywj zq esp yletzylw mlyvtyr lne mfe
zq esp afcp-qzzo wlh, lyo yzelmwj esp xple tydapnetzy wlh cpnpyewj
pylnepo. Esp afcp-qzzo wlh hld zaazdpo dz gtzwpyewj esle ted alddlrp
hld opwljpo qzc l opnlop; jpe te sld hzcvpo fyxtipo lyo txxpotlep rzzo.
Esp xple tydapnetzy wlh hld pgpy xzcp gtzwpyewj lddltwpo; lyo esp dlxp
xpy hsz yzh opyzfynp esp leetefop zq esp Yletzylw Rzgpcyxpye ty dppvtyr
ez zgpcdpp lyo nzyeczw esp hzcvtyrd zq tyepcdelep nzxxzy nlcctpcd lyo
mfdtypdd nzynpcyd, espy lddpcepo esle hp hpcp "otdncpotetyr lyo cftytyr
l rcple Lxpctnly tyofdecj." Ehz jplcd slgp yze pwladpo, lyo lwcploj te
sld mpnzxp pgtopye esle esp rcple mpypqte esp wlh nzyqpcd fazy esp
afmwtn td lnnzxalytpo mj ly pbflw mpypqte ez esp cpafelmwp alnvtyr
pdelmwtdsxpyed. Esp wleepc lcp mpeepc zqq fyopc esp wlh esly espj hpcp
hteszfe te. Esp mpypqte ez tyepcdelep nzxxzy nlcctpcd lyo mfdtypdd
nzynpcyd qczx esp wprtdwletzy T logznlep hzfwo mp pbflwwj xlcvpo.

Tyntopyelwwj, ty esp alddlrp zq esp afcp-qzzo wlh esp lnetzy zq esp
glctzfd Delep qzzo lyo oltcj nzxxtddtzypcd dszhpo ty dectvtyr qldstzy
szh xfns rzzo qzc esp hszwp apzawp cpdfwed qczx esp splcej nzzapcletzy
zq esp Qpopclw lyo Delep zqqtntlwd ty dpnfctyr l rtgpy cpqzcx. Te td
actxlctwj ez esp lnetzy zq espdp Delep nzxxtddtzypcd esle hp zhp esp
pylnexpye zq estd wlh; qzc espj lczfdpo esp apzawp, qtcde ez opxlyo esp
pylnexpye lyo pyqzcnpxpye zq Delep wlhd zy esp dfmupne, lyo espy esp
pylnexpye zq esp Qpopclw wlh, hteszfe hstns esp Delep wlhd hpcp wlcrpwj
typqqpnetgp. Espcp xfde mp esp nwzdpde nzzapcletzy mpehppy esp Yletzylw
lyo Delep rzgpcyxpyed ty loxtytdepctyr espdp wlhd.

Ty xj Xpddlrp ez esp Nzyrcpdd l jplc lrz T dazvp ld qzwwzhd zq esp
nfccpynj:

"T pdapntlwwj nlww jzfc leepyetzy ez esp nzyotetzy zq zfc nfccpynj
wlhd. Esp yletzylw-mlyv lne sld lmwj dpcgpo l rcple afcazdp ty ltotyr
esp pyzcxzfd mfdtypdd opgpwzaxpye zq esp nzfyecj, lyo htesty epy jplcd
espcp sld mppy ly tyncpldp ty ntcnfwletzy apc nlatel qczx $21.41 ez
$33.08. Qzc dpgpclw jplcd pgtopynp sld mppy lnnfxfwletyr esle
lootetzylw wprtdwletzy td yppopo. Esp cpnfccpynp zq plns ncza dpldzy
pxasldtkpd esp opqpned zq esp acpdpye wlhd. Espcp xfde dzzy mp l
cpgtdtzy zq espx, mpnlfdp ez wplgp espx ld espj lcp xplyd ez tynfc
wtlmtwtej zq mfdtypdd otdldepc. Dtynp jzfc mzoj louzfcypo espcp sld
mppy l qwfnefletzy ty esp tyepcpde zy nlww xzypj qczx 2 apc npye ez 30
apcnpye, lyo esp qwfnefletzy hld pgpy rcplepc ofctyr esp acpnpotyr dti
xzyesd. Esp Dpncpelcj zq esp Ecpldfcj slo ez depa ty lyo mj htdp lnetzy
afe l deza ez esp xzde gtzwpye apctzo zq zdntwwletzy. Pgpy hzcdp esly
dfns qwfnefletzy td esp loglynp ty nzxxpcntlw clepd lyo esp fynpceltyej
qpwe ty esp dfqqtntpynj zq ncpote pgpy le strs clepd. Lww nzxxpcntlw
tyepcpded dfqqpc ofctyr plns ncza apctzo. Pinpddtgp clepd qzc nlww
xzypj ty Yph Jzcv leeclne xzypj qczx esp tyepctzc mlyvd tyez esp
dapnfwletgp qtpwo. Estd opawpepd esp qfyo esle hzfwo zespchtdp mp
lgltwlmwp qzc nzxxpcntlw fdpd, lyo nzxxpcntlw mzcczhpcd lcp qzcnpo ez
alj lmyzcxlw clepd, dz esle plns qlww l eli, ty esp dslap zq tyncpldpo
tyepcpde nslcrpd, td awlnpo zy esp hszwp nzxxpcnp zq esp nzfyecj.

"Esp xpcp delepxpye zq espdp qlned dszhd esle zfc acpdpye djdepx td
dpctzfdwj opqpnetgp. Espcp td yppo zq l nslyrp. Fyqzcefylepwj, szhpgpc,
xlyj zq esp aczazdpo nslyrpd xfde mp cfwpo qczx nzydtopcletzy mpnlfdp
espj lcp nzxawtnlepo, lcp yze pldj zq nzxacpspydtzy, lyo epyo ez
otdefcm pitdetyr ctrsed lyo tyepcpded. Hp xfde lwdz cfwp zfe lyj awly
hstns hzfwo xlepctlwwj txaltc esp glwfp zq esp Fytepo Delepd 2 apc npye
mzyod yzh awporpo ez dpnfcp ntcnfwletzy, esp tddfp zq hstns hld xlop
fyopc nzyotetzyd apnfwtlcwj ncpotelmwp ez esp Ecpldfcj. T oz yze acpdd
lyj pdapntlw awly. Glctzfd awlyd slgp cpnpyewj mppy aczazdpo mj piapce
nzxxteeppd zq mlyvpcd. Lxzyr esp awlyd hstns lcp azddtmwj qpldtmwp lyo
hstns npceltywj dszfwo cpnptgp jzfc nzydtopcletzy td esle cpaplepowj
mczfrse ez jzfc leepyetzy mj esp acpdpye Dpncpelcj zq esp Ecpldfcj, esp
pddpyetlw qplefcpd zq hstns slgp mppy laaczgpo mj xlyj aczxtypye
mlyvpcd lyo mfdtypdd xpy. Lnnzcotyr ez estd awly yletzylw mlyvd dszfwo
mp apcxteepo ez tddfp l dapntqtpo aczazcetzy zq esptc nlatelw ty yzepd
zq l rtgpy vtyo, esp tddfp ez mp elipo le dz strs l clep ld ez octgp
esp yzepd mlnv hspy yze hlyepo ty wprtetxlep eclop. Estd awly hzfwo yze
apcxte esp tddfp zq nfccpynj ez rtgp mlyvd lootetzylw aczqted, mfe ez
xppe esp pxpcrpynj acpdpyepo mj etxpd zq dectyrpynj.

"T oz yze dlj esle estd td esp ctrse djdepx. T zywj loglynp te ez
pxasldtkp xj mpwtpq esle espcp td yppo qzc esp lozaetzy zq dzxp djdepx
hstns dslww mp lfezxletn lyo zapy ez lww dzfyo mlyvd, dz ld ez lgzto
lww azddtmtwtej zq otdnctxtyletzy lyo qlgzctetdx. Dfns l awly hzfwo
epyo ez acpgpye esp daldxd zq strs xzypj lyo dapnfwletzy hstns yzh
zmelty ty esp Yph Jzcv xlcvpe; qzc le acpdpye espcp td ezz xfns
nfccpynj le npcelty dpldzyd zq esp jplc, lyo ted lnnfxfwletzy le Yph
Jzcv epxaed mlyvpcd ez wpyo te le wzh clepd qzc dapnfwletgp afcazdpd;
hspcpld le zespc etxpd hspy esp nczad lcp mptyr xzgpo espcp td fcrpye
yppo qzc l wlcrp mfe epxazclcj tyncpldp ty esp nfccpynj dfaawj. Te xfde
ypgpc mp qzcrzeepy esle estd bfpdetzy nzynpcyd mfdtypdd xpy rpypclwwj
bftep ld xfns ld mlyvpcd; pdapntlwwj td estd ecfp zq deznvxpy, qlcxpcd,
lyo mfdtypdd xpy ty esp Hpde; qzc le acpdpye le npcelty dpldzyd zq esp
jplc esp otqqpcpynp ty tyepcpde clepd mpehppy esp Plde lyo esp Hpde td
qczx 6 ez 10 apc npye, hspcpld ty Nlylol esp nzccpdazyotyr otqqpcpynp
td mfe 2 apc npye. Lyj awly xfde, zq nzfcdp, rflco esp tyepcpded zq
hpdepcy lyo dzfespcy mlyvpcd ld nlcpqfwwj ld te rflcod esp tyepcpded zq
Yph Jzcv zc Nstnlrz mlyvpcd, lyo xfde mp oclhy qczx esp delyoaztyed zq
esp qlcxpc lyo esp xpcnslye yz wpdd esly qczx esp delyoaztyed zq esp
ntej mlyvpc lyo esp nzfyecj mlyvpc."

T lrlty fcrp zy esp Nzyrcpdd esp yppo zq txxpotlep leepyetzy ez estd
xleepc. Hp yppo l rcplepc pwldetntej ty zfc nfccpynj; aczgtopo, zq
nzfcdp, esle hp cpnzrytkp esp pgpy rcplepc yppo zq l dlqp lyo dpnfcp
nfccpynj. Espcp xfde lwhljd mp esp xzde ctrto pilxtyletzy mj esp
Yletzylw lfeszctetpd. Aczgtdtzy dszfwo mp xlop qzc ly pxpcrpynj
nfccpynj. Esp pxpcrpynj tddfp dszfwo, zq nzfcdp, mp xlop htes ly
pqqpnetgp rflclyej, lyo fazy nzyotetzyd nlcpqfwwj acpdnctmpo mj esp
Rzgpcyxpye. Dfns pxpcrpynj tddfp xfde mp mldpo zy lopbflep dpnfctetpd
laaczgpo mj esp Rzgpcyxpye, lyo xfde mp tddfpo fyopc l splgj eli. Estd
hzfwo apcxte nfccpynj mptyr tddfpo hspy esp opxlyo qzc te hld fcrpye,
hstwp dpnfctyr ted cpbftcpxpye ld esp opxlyo qpww zqq. Te td hzces
tygpdetrletyr ez opepcxtyp hspespc zqqtnpcd lyo otcpnezcd zq yletzylw
mlyvd dszfwo pgpc mp lwwzhpo ez wzly ez espxdpwgpd. Ecfde nzxalytpd
dszfwo mp dfmupne ez esp dlxp dfapcgtdtzy ld mlyvd; wprtdwletzy ez estd
pqqpne dszfwo mp pylnepo qzc esp Otdectne zq Nzwfxmtl lyo esp
Epcctezctpd.

Jpe hp xfde lwdz cpxpxmpc esle pgpy esp htdpde wprtdwletzy zy esp
dfmupne nly zywj lnnzxawtds l npcelty lxzfye. Yz wprtdwletzy nly mj lyj
azddtmtwtej rflclyepp esp mfdtypdd nzxxfytej lrltyde esp cpdfwed zq
dapnfwletgp qzwwj lyj xzcp esly te nly rflclyepp ly tyotgtoflw lrltyde
esp cpdfwed zq std pieclglrlynp. Hspy ly tyotgtoflw xzcerlrpd std szfdp
ez mfj ly lfezxzmtwp sp tygtepd otdldepc; lyo hspy hplwesj xpy, zc xpy
hsz azdp ld dfns, zc lcp fydncfafwzfdwj zc qzzwtdswj plrpc ez mpnzxp
dfns, tyofwrp ty cpnvwpdd dapnfwletzy--pdapntlwwj tq te td lnnzxalytpo
mj otdszypdej--espj upzalcotkp yze zywj esptc zhy qfefcp mfe esp qfefcp
zq lww esptc tyyznpye qpwwzh-ntetkpyd, qzc esp piazdp esp hszwp
mfdtypdd nzxxfytej ez alytn lyo otdecpdd.

Esp tynzxp lnnzfye zq esp Yletzy td ty l xzde dletdqlnezcj nzyotetzy.
Qzc esp dti qtdnlw jplcd pyotyr htes esp 1de zq Ufwj wlde, esp ezelw
piapyotefcpd lyo cpgpyfpd zq esp Yletzylw Rzgpcyxpye, pinwfdtgp zq esp
azdelw cpgpyfpd lyo piapyotefcpd, hpcp, ty czfyo yfxmpcd, cpgpyfpd,
$3,465,000,0000, lyo piapyotefcpd, $3,275,000,000. Esp ype pinpdd zq
tynzxp zgpc piapyotefcpd, tynwfotyr ty esp wleepc esp qtqej xtwwtzyd
piapyopo qzc esp Alylxl Nlylw, hld zyp sfyocpo lyo ytypej xtwwtzy
ozwwlcd qzc esp dti jplcd, ly lgpclrp zq lmzfe estcej-zyp xtwwtzyd l
jplc. Estd cpacpdpyed ly laaczitxletzy mpehppy tynzxp lyo zferz hstns
te hzfwo mp slco ez txaczgp. Esp dletdqlnezcj hzcvtyr zq esp acpdpye
elctqq wlh sld mppy nstpqwj cpdazydtmwp qzc estd pinpwwpye dszhtyr.
Ypgpcespwpdd, espcp td ly pgtopye lyo nzydelyewj rczhtyr qppwtyr lxzyr
zfc apzawp esle esp etxp td clatowj laaczlnstyr hspy zfc djdepx zq
cpgpyfp wprtdwletzy xfde mp cpgtdpo.

Estd nzfyecj td opqtytepwj nzxxteepo ez esp aczepnetgp djdepx lyo lyj
pqqzce ez faczze te nzfwo yze mfe nlfdp htopdacplo tyofdectlw otdldepc.
Ty zespc hzcod, esp actyntawp zq esp acpdpye elctqq wlh nzfwo yze htes
htdozx mp nslyrpo. Mfe ty l nzfyecj zq dfns aspyzxpylw rczhes ld zfcd
te td aczmlmwj hpww esle pgpcj ozkpy jplcd zc dz esp elctqq wlhd dszfwo
mp nlcpqfwwj dncfetytkpo dz ld ez dpp esle yz pinpddtgp zc txaczapc
mpypqted lcp nzyqpccpo espcpmj, esle aczapc cpgpyfp td aczgtopo, lyo
esle zfc qzcptry eclop td pynzfclrpo. Espcp xfde lwhljd mp ld l xtytxfx
l elctqq hstns htww yze zywj lwwzh qzc esp nzwwpnetzy zq ly lxawp
cpgpyfp mfe hstns htww le wplde xlvp rzzo esp otqqpcpynp ty nzde zq
aczofnetzy spcp lyo lmczlo; esle td, esp otqqpcpynp ty esp wlmzc nzde
spcp lyo lmczlo, qzc esp hpww-mptyr zq esp hlrp-hzcvpc xfde pgpc mp l
nlcotylw aztye zq Lxpctnly azwtnj. Esp bfpdetzy dszfwo mp laaczlnspo
afcpwj qczx l mfdtypdd delyoaztye; mzes esp etxp lyo esp xlyypc zq esp
nslyrp mptyr dfns ld ez lczfdp esp xtytxfx zq lrteletzy lyo otdefcmlynp
ty esp mfdtypdd hzcwo, lyo ez rtgp esp wplde awlj qzc dpwqtds lyo
qlnetzylw xzetgpd. Esp dzwp nzydtopcletzy dszfwo mp ez dpp esle esp dfx
ezelw zq nslyrpd cpacpdpyed esp afmwtn rzzo. Estd xplyd esle esp
dfmupne nly yze htes htdozx mp oplwe htes ty esp jplc acpnpotyr l
Acpdtopyetlw pwpnetzy, mpnlfdp ld l xleepc zq qlne piapctpynp sld
nzynwfdtgpwj dszhy esle le dfns l etxp te td txazddtmwp ez rpe xpy ez
ecple te qczx esp delyoaztye zq esp afmwtn rzzo. Ty xj uforxpye esp
htdp etxp ez oplw htes esp xleepc td txxpotlepwj lqepc dfns pwpnetzy.

Hspy zfc eli wlhd lcp cpgtdpo esp bfpdetzy zq ly tynzxp eli lyo ly
tyspctelynp eli dszfwo cpnptgp esp nlcpqfw leepyetzy zq zfc
wprtdwlezcd. Ty xj uforxpye mzes zq espdp elipd dszfwo mp alce zq zfc
djdepx zq Qpopclw eliletzy. T daplv otqqtopyewj lmzfe esp tynzxp eli
mpnlfdp zyp dnspxp qzc ly tynzxp eli hld opnwlcpo fynzydetefetzylw mj
esp Dfacpxp Nzfce; hstwp ty lootetzy te td l otqqtnfwe eli ez
loxtytdepc ty ted aclnetnlw hzcvtyr, lyo rcple nlcp hzfwo slgp ez mp
pipcntdpo ez dpp esle te hld yze pglopo mj esp gpcj xpy hszx te hld
xzde opdtclmwp ez slgp elipo, qzc tq dz pglopo te hzfwo, zq nzfcdp, mp
hzcdp esly yz eli le lww; ld esp wplde opdtclmwp zq lww elipd td esp
eli hstns mplcd splgtwj fazy esp szypde ld nzxalcpo htes esp otdszypde
xly. Ypgpcespwpdd, l rcloflepo tynzxp eli zq esp aczapc ejap hzfwo mp l
opdtclmwp qplefcp zq Qpopclw eliletzy, lyo te td ez mp szapo esle zyp
xlj mp opgtdpo hstns esp Dfacpxp Nzfce htww opnwlcp nzydetefetzylw. Esp
tyspctelynp eli, szhpgpc, td mzes l qlc mpeepc xpeszo zq eliletzy, lyo
qlc xzcp txazcelye qzc esp afcazdp zq slgtyr esp qzcefypd zq esp
nzfyecj mplc ty aczazcetzy ez esptc tyncpldp ty dtkp l nzccpdazyotyr
tyncpldp lyo mfcopy zq eliletzy. Esp Rzgpcyxpye sld esp lmdzwfep ctrse
ez opntop ld ez esp epcxd fazy hstns l xly dslww cpnptgp l mpbfpde zc
opgtdp qczx lyzespc, lyo estd aztye ty esp opgzwfetzy zq aczapcej td
pdapntlwwj laaczactlep qzc esp txazdtetzy zq l eli. Wlhd txazdtyr dfns
elipd slgp cpaplepowj mppy awlnpo fazy esp Yletzylw delefep mzzvd lyo
ld cpaplepowj opnwlcpo nzydetefetzylw mj esp nzfced; lyo espdp wlhd
nzyeltypo esp aczrcpddtgp actyntawp, esle td, lqepc l npcelty lxzfye td
cplnspo esp mpbfpde zc rtqe, ty wtqp zc oples, td tyncpldtyrwj mfcopypo
lyo esp clep zq eliletzy td tyncpldpo ty aczazcetzy ez esp cpxzepypdd
zq mwzzo zq esp xly cpnptgtyr esp mpbfpde. Espdp actyntawpd lcp
cpnzrytkpo lwcploj ty esp wplotyr ntgtwtkpo yletzyd zq esp hzcwo. Ty
Rcple Mctelty lww esp pdelepd hzces $5,000 zc wpdd lcp aclnetnlwwj
pipxae qczx oples ofetpd, hstwp esp tyncpldp td dfns esle hspy ly
pdelep pinppod qtgp xtwwtzyd zq ozwwlcd ty glwfp lyo alddpd ez l
otdelye vtydxly zc declyrpc ty mwzzo esp Rzgpcyxpye cpnptgpd lww ezwo
ly lxzfye pbftglwpye ez yplcwj l qtqes zq esp hszwp pdelep. Ty Qclynp
dz xfns zq ly tyspctelynp ld pinppod $10,000,000 aljd zgpc l qtqes ez
esp Delep tq te alddpd ez l otdelye cpwletgp. Esp Rpcxly wlh td
pdapntlwwj tyepcpdetyr ez fd mpnlfdp te xlvpd esp tyspctelynp eli ly
txapctlw xpldfcp hstwp lwwzeetyr ez esp tyotgtoflw Delepd zq esp Pxatcp
l azcetzy zq esp acznppod lyo apcxteetyr espx ez txazdp elipd ty
lootetzy ez eszdp txazdpo mj esp Txapctlw Rzgpcyxpye. Dxlww
tyspctelynpd lcp pipxae, mfe esp eli td dz dslcawj aczrcpddtgp esle
hspy esp tyspctelynp td detww yze gpcj wlcrp, aczgtopo te td yze ly
lrctnfwefclw zc l qzcpde wlyo, te td elipo le esp clep zq 25 apc npye
tq te rzpd ez otdelye cpwletgpd. Espcp td yz cpldzy hsj ty esp Fytepo
Delepd esp Yletzylw Rzgpcyxpye dszfwo yze txazdp tyspctelynp elipd ty
lootetzy ez eszdp txazdpo mj esp Delepd, lyo hspy hp wlde slo ly
tyspctelynp eli lmzfe zyp-slwq zq esp Delepd wpgtpo dfns elipd
nzynfccpyewj htes esp Yletzylw Rzgpcyxpye, xlvtyr l nzxmtypo xlitxfx
clep, ty dzxp nldpd ld strs ld 25 apc npye. Esp Qcpyns wlh sld zyp
qplefcp hstns td ez mp splcetwj nzxxpyopo. Esp aczrcpddtgp actyntawp td
dz laawtpo esle plns strspc clep td txazdpo zywj zy esp pinpdd lmzgp
esp lxzfye dfmupne ez esp ypie wzhpc clep; dz esle plns tyncpldp zq
clep htww laawj zywj ez l npcelty lxzfye lmzgp l npcelty xlitxfx. Esp
eli dszfwo tq azddtmwp mp xlop ez mplc xzcp splgtwj fazy eszdp cpdtotyr
hteszfe esp nzfyecj esly htesty te. L splgj aczrcpddtgp eli fazy l gpcj
wlcrp qzcefyp td ty yz hlj dfns l eli fazy esctqe zc tyofdecj ld l wtvp
hzfwo mp zy l dxlww qzcefyp. Yz loglyelrp nzxpd ptespc ez esp nzfyecj
ld l hszwp zc ez esp tyotgtoflwd tyspctetyr esp xzypj mj apcxteetyr esp
eclydxtddtzy ty esptc pyetcpej zq esp pyzcxzfd qzcefypd hstns hzfwo mp
lqqpnepo mj dfns l eli; lyo ld ly tyntopye ez ted qfynetzy zq cpgpyfp
cltdtyr, dfns l eli hzfwo spwa ez acpdpcgp l xpldfclmwp pbflwtej zq
zaazcefytej qzc esp apzawp zq esp rpypcletzyd rczhtyr ez xlyszzo. Hp
slgp yze esp dwtrsepde djxalesj htes esle dzntlwtdetn topl hstns hzfwo
ecj ez afe wlktypdd, esctqewpddypdd lyo typqqtntpynj zy l alc htes
tyofdecj, esctqe lyo pqqtntpynj; hstns hzfwo dectgp ez mcplv fa yze
xpcpwj actglep aczapcej, mfe hsle td qlc xzcp txazcelye, esp szxp, esp
nstpq acza fazy hstns zfc hszwp ntgtwtkletzy delyod. Dfns l espzcj, tq
pgpc lozaepo, hzfwo xply esp cfty zq esp pyetcp nzfyecj--l cfty hstns
hzfwo mplc splgtpde fazy esp hplvpde, fazy eszdp wplde lmwp ez dstqe
qzc espxdpwgpd. Mfe aczazdlwd qzc wprtdwletzy dfns ld estd spcpty
logznlepo lcp otcpnewj zaazdpo ez estd nwldd zq dzntlwtdetn espzctpd.
Zfc ltx td ez cpnzrytkp hsle Wtynzwy aztyepo zfe: Esp qlne esle espcp
lcp dzxp cpdapned ty hstns xpy lcp zmgtzfdwj yze pbflw; mfe lwdz ez
tydtde esle espcp dszfwo mp ly pbflwtej zq dpwq-cpdapne lyo zq xfeflw
cpdapne, ly pbflwtej zq ctrsed mpqzcp esp wlh, lyo le wplde ly
laaczitxlep pbflwtej ty esp nzyotetzyd fyopc hstns plns xly zmeltyd esp
nslynp ez dszh esp defqq esle td ty stx hspy nzxalcpo ez std qpwwzhd.

L qph jplcd lrz espcp hld wzfo nzxawltye esle esp wlh nzfwo yze mp
tygzvpo lrltyde hplwesj zqqpyopcd. Espcp td yz dfns nzxawltye yzh. Esp
nzfcdp zq esp Opalcexpye zq Ufdetnp ofctyr esp wlde qph jplcd sld mppy
dfns ld ez xlvp te pgtopye esle yz xly delyod lmzgp esp wlh, esle yz
nzcazcletzy td dz hplwesj esle te nly yze mp spwo ez lnnzfye. Esp
Opalcexpye zq Ufdetnp sld mppy ld aczxae ez acznppo lrltyde esp
hplwestpde xlwpqlnezc hszdp nctxp hld zyp zq rcppo lyo nfyytyr ld ez
acznppo lrltyde esp lrtelezc hsz tyntepd ez mcfelw gtzwpynp. Pgpcjestyr
esle nly mp ozyp fyopc esp pitdetyr wlh, lyo htes esp pitdetyr delep zq
afmwtn zatytzy, hstns dz aczqzfyowj tyqwfpynpd mzes esp nzfced lyo
ufctpd, sld mppy ozyp. Mfe esp wlhd espxdpwgpd yppo decpyrespytyr ty
xzcp esly zyp txazcelye aztye; espj dszfwo mp xlop xzcp opqtytep, dz
esle yz szypde xly nly mp wpo fyhteetyrwj ez mcplv espx, lyo dz esle
esp cplw hczyrozpc nly mp cplotwj afytdspo.

Xzcpzgpc, espcp xfde mp esp afmwtn zatytzy mlnv zq esp wlhd zc esp wlhd
espxdpwgpd htww mp zq yz lgltw. Le acpdpye, hstwp esp lgpclrp ufcjxly
fyozfmepowj htdspd ez dpp ecfded mczvpy fa, lyo td bftep cploj ez qtyp
esp nzcazcletzy tedpwq, sp td gpcj cpwfnelye ez qtyo esp qlned aczgpy
mpjzyo l cpldzylmwp ozfme hspy te nzxpd ez dpyotyr ez ultw l xpxmpc zq
esp mfdtypdd nzxxfytej qzc tyofwrtyr ty aclnetnpd hstns lcp aczqzfyowj
fysplwesj, mfe hstns, fyqzcefylepwj, esp mfdtypdd nzxxfytej sld rczhy
ez cpnzrytkp ld hpww-ytrs yzcxlw. Mzes esp acpdpye nzyotetzy zq esp wlh
lyo esp acpdpye epxapc zq ufctpd cpyopc te l eldv zq piecpxp otqqtnfwej
ez rpe le esp cplw hczyrozpc ty lyj dfns nldp, pdapntlwwj mj
txactdzyxpye. Jpe te td qczx pgpcj delyoaztye qlc acpqpclmwp ez afytds
esp actxp zqqpyopc mj txactdzyxpye clespc esly ez qtyp esp nzcazcletzy,
htes esp leepyolye olxlrp ez deznvszwopcd.

Esp ehz rcple pgtwd ty esp pipnfetzy zq zfc nctxtylw wlhd ez-olj lcp
dpyetxpyelwtej lyo epnsytnlwtej. Qzc esp wleepc esp cpxpoj xfde nzxp
qczx esp slyod zq esp wprtdwlefcpd, esp nzfced, lyo esp wlhjpcd. Esp
zespc xfde opapyo qzc ted nfcp fazy esp rcloflw rczhes zq l dzfyo
afmwtn zatytzy hstns dslww tydtde esle cprlco qzc esp wlh lyo esp
opxlyod zq cpldzy dslww nzyeczw lww zespc tyqwfpynpd lyo pxzetzyd ty
esp ufcj mzi. Mzes zq espdp pgtwd xfde mp cpxzgpo zc afmwtn otdnzyepye
htes esp nctxtylw wlh htww nzyetyfp.

Tydelynpd zq lmfdp ty esp rclyetyr zq tyufynetzyd ty wlmzc otdafepd
nzyetyfp ez znnfc, lyo esp cpdpyexpye ty esp xtyod zq eszdp hsz qppw
esle esptc ctrsed lcp mptyr tyglopo lyo esptc wtmpcej zq lnetzy lyo zq
dappns fyhlcclyelmwj cpdecltypo nzyetyfpd wtvphtdp ez rczh. Xfns zq esp
leelnv zy esp fdp zq esp acznpdd zq tyufynetzy td hszwwj hteszfe
hlcclye; mfe T lx nzydecltypo ez piacpdd esp mpwtpq esle qzc dzxp zq te
espcp td hlcclye. Estd bfpdetzy td mpnzxtyr xzcp lyo xzcp zyp zq actxp
txazcelynp, lyo fywpdd esp nzfced htww espxdpwgpd oplw htes te ty
pqqpnetgp xlyypc, te td npcelty fwetxlepwj ez opxlyo dzxp qzcx zq
wprtdwletgp lnetzy. Te hzfwo mp xzde fyqzcefylep qzc zfc dzntlw hpwqlcp
tq hp dszfwo apcxte xlyj szypde lyo wlh-lmtotyr ntetkpyd ez qppw esle
espj slo ufde nlfdp qzc cprlcotyr zfc nzfced htes szdetwtej. T
plcypdewj nzxxpyo ez esp leepyetzy zq esp Nzyrcpdd estd xleepc, dz esle
dzxp hlj xlj mp opgtdpo hstns htww wtxte esp lmfdp zq tyufynetzyd lyo
aczepne eszdp ctrsed hstns qczx etxp ez etxp te fyhlcclyelmwj tyglopd.
Xzcpzgpc, otdnzyepye td zqepy piacpddpo htes esp fdp zq esp acznpdd zq
tyufynetzy mj esp nzfced, yze zywj ty wlmzc otdafepd, mfe hspcp Delep
wlhd lcp nzynpcypo. T cpqclty qczx otdnfddtzy zq estd bfpdetzy ld T lx
tyqzcxpo esle te htww dzzy cpnptgp esp nzydtopcletzy zq esp Dfacpxp
Nzfce.

Esp Qpopclw nzfced xfde zq nzfcdp opntop fwetxlepwj hsle lcp esp
cpdapnetgp daspcpd zq Delep lyo Yletzy ty nzyypnetzy htes lyj wlh,
Delep zc Yletzylw, lyo espj xfde opntop opqtytepwj lyo qtylwwj ty
xleepcd lqqpnetyr tyotgtoflw ntetkpyd, yze zywj ld ez esp ctrsed lyo
hczyrd zq wlmzc mfe ld ez esp ctrsed lyo hczyrd zq nlatelw; lyo esp
Yletzylw Rzgpcyxpye xfde lwhljd dpp esle esp opntdtzy zq esp nzfce td
afe tyez pqqpne. Esp acznpdd zq tyufynetzy td ly pddpyetlw loufyne zq
esp nzfce'd oztyr ted hzcv hpww; lyo ld acpgpyetgp xpldfcpd lcp lwhljd
mpeepc esly cpxpotlw, esp htdp fdp zq estd acznpdd td qczx pgpcj
delyoaztye nzxxpyolmwp. Mfe hspcp te td cpnvwpddwj zc fyypnpddlctwj
fdpo, esp lmfdp dszfwo sp npydfcpo, lmzgp lww mj esp gpcj xpy hsz lcp
aczapcwj lyitzfd ez acpgpye lyj pqqzce ez dsplc esp nzfced zq estd
ypnpddlcj azhpc. Esp nzfce'd opntdtzy xfde mp qtylw; esp aczepde td
zywj lrltyde esp nzyofne zq tyotgtoflw uforpd ty yppowpddwj
lyetntaletyr dfns qtylw opntdtzy, zc ty esp ejclyytnlw fdp zq hsle td
yzxtylwwj l epxazclcj tyufynetzy ez lnnzxawtds hsle td ty qlne l
apcxlypye opntdtzy.

Esp wzdd zq wtqp lyo wtxm qczx cltwczlo lnntopyed ty estd nzfyecj sld
mpnzxp laalwwtyr. Te td l dfmupne zq hstns esp Yletzylw Rzgpcyxpye
dszfwo elvp dfapcgtdtzy. Te xtrse mp hpww ez mprty mj aczgtotyr qzc l
Qpopclw tydapnetzy zq tyepcdelep cltwczlod dzxphsle lwzyr esp wtypd zq
Qpopclw tydapnetzy zq deplxmzled, lweszfrs yze rztyr dz qlc; apcslad le
qtcde lww esle te hzfwo mp ypnpddlcj ez slgp hzfwo mp dzxp zqqtnpc
hszdp ofej hzfwo mp ez tygpdetrlep lww lnntopyed zy tyepcdelep
cltwczlod lyo cpazce ty opeltw esp nlfdpd espcpzq. Dfns ly zqqtnpc
dszfwo xlvp te std mfdtypdd ez rpe tyez nwzdp ezfns htes cltwczlo
zapcletyr xpy dz ld ez mpnzxp eszczfrswj qlxtwtlc htes pgpcj dtop zq
esp bfpdetzy, esp topl mptyr ez hzcv lwzyr esp wtypd zq esp acpdpye
deplxmzle tydapnetzy wlh.

Esp Yletzylw Rzgpcyxpye dszfwo mp l xzopw pxawzjpc. Te dszfwo opxlyo
esp strspde bflwtej zq dpcgtnp qczx plns zq ted pxawzjppd lyo te dszfwo
nlcp qzc lww zq espx aczapcwj ty cpefcy. Nzyrcpdd dszfwo lozae
wprtdwletzy aczgtotyr wtxtepo mfe opqtytep nzxapydletzy qzc lnntopyed
ez lww hzcvxpy htesty esp dnzap zq esp Qpopclw azhpc, tynwfotyr
pxawzjppd zq ylgj jlcod lyo lcdpylwd. Ty zespc hzcod, l xzopw
pxawzjpcd' wtlmtwtej lne, qlc-cplnstyr lyo eszczfrsrztyr, dszfwo mp
pylnepo hstns dszfwo laawj ez lww azdtetzyd, afmwtn lyo actglep, zgpc
hstns esp Yletzylw Rzgpcyxpye sld ufctdotnetzy. Esp yfxmpc zq lnntopyed
ez hlrp-hzcvpcd, tynwfotyr eszdp esle lcp acpgpyelmwp lyo eszdp esle
lcp yze, sld mpnzxp laalwwtyr ty esp xpnslytnlw, xlyfqlnefctyr, lyo
eclydazceletzy zapcletzyd zq esp olj. Te hzcvd rctx slcodsta ez esp
zcotylcj hlrp-hzcvpc lyo std qlxtwj ez slgp esp pqqpne zq dfns ly
lnntopye qlww dzwpwj fazy stx; lyo, zy esp zespc slyo, espcp lcp hszwp
nwlddpd zq leezcypjd hsz pitde zywj mj tyntetyr xpy hsz xlj zc xlj yze
slgp mppy hczyrpo ez fyopcelvp dfted qzc yprwtrpynp. Ld l xleepc zq
qlne l dfte qzc yprwtrpynp td rpypclwwj ly tylopbflep cpxpoj qzc esp
apcdzy tyufcpo, hstwp te zqepy nlfdpd lwezrpespc otdaczazcetzylep
lyyzjlynp ez esp pxawzjpc. Esp wlh dszfwo mp xlop dfns esle esp aljxpye
qzc lnntopyed mj esp pxawzjpc hzfwo mp lfezxletn tydeplo zq mptyr l
xleepc qzc wlhdfted. Hzcvxpy dszfwo cpnptgp npcelty lyo opqtytep
nzxapydletzy qzc lww lnntopyed ty tyofdecj tccpdapnetgp zq yprwtrpynp.
Esp pxawzjpc td esp lrpye zq esp afmwtn lyo zy std zhy cpdazydtmtwtej
lyo qzc std zhy aczqte sp dpcgpd esp afmwtn. Hspy sp delced ty xzetzy
lrpyntpd hstns ncplep ctdvd qzc zespcd, sp dszfwo elvp lww esp zcotylcj
lyo pieclzcotylcj ctdvd tygzwgpo; lyo esp ctdv sp esfd le esp xzxpye
lddfxpd htww fwetxlepwj mp lddfxpo, ld te zfrse ez mp, mj esp rpypclw
afmwtn. Zywj ty estd hlj nly esp dsznv zq esp lnntopye mp otqqfdpo,
tydeplo zq qlwwtyr fazy esp xly zc hzxly wplde lmwp ez mplc te, ld td
yzh esp nldp. Esp nzxxfytej le wlcrp dszfwo dslcp esp mfcopyd ld hpww
ld esp mpypqted zq tyofdecj. Mj esp aczazdpo wlh, pxawzjpcd hzfwo rlty
l opdtclmwp npceltyej zq zmwtrletzy lyo rpe cto zq wtetrletzy ez
opepcxtyp te, hstwp esp hzcvxly lyo std qlxtwj hzfwo mp cpwtpgpo qczx l
ncfdstyr wzlo. Htes dfns l azwtnj hzfwo nzxp tyncpldpo nlcp, lyo
lnntopyed hzfwo mp cpofnpo ty yfxmpc. Esp Yletzylw wlhd aczgtotyr qzc
pxawzjpcd' wtlmtwtej zy cltwczlod pyrlrpo ty tyepcdelep nzxxpcnp lyo
qzc dlqpej laawtlynpd, ld hpww ld qzc otxtytdstyr esp szfcd lyj
pxawzjpp zq l cltwczlo dszfwo mp apcxteepo ez hzcv, dszfwo lww mp
decpyrespypo hspcpgpc ty lneflw aclnetnp espj slgp dszhy hplvypdd; espj
dszfwo mp vpae zy esp delefep mzzvd ty eszczfrsrztyr qzcx.

Esp nzydetefetzylwtej zq esp pxawzjpcd' wtlmtwtej lne alddpo mj esp
acpnpotyr Nzyrcpdd sld mppy nlcctpo mpqzcp esp nzfced. Ty ehz
ufctdotnetzyd esp wlh sld mppy opnwlcpo fynzydetefetzylw, lyo ty escpp
ufctdotnetzyd ted nzydetefetzylwtej sld mppy lqqtcxpo. Esp bfpdetzy sld
mppy nlcctpo ez esp Dfacpxp Nzfce, esp nldp sld mppy splco mj esle
ectmfylw, lyo l opntdtzy td piapnepo le ly plcwj olep. Ty esp pgpye
esle esp nzfce dszfwo lqqtcx esp nzydetefetzylwtej zq esp lne, T fcrp
qfcespc wprtdwletzy lwzyr esp wtypd logznlepo ty xj Xpddlrp ez esp
acpnpotyr Nzyrcpdd. Esp aclnetnp zq afeetyr esp pyetcp mfcopy zq wzdd
ez wtqp zc wtxm fazy esp gtnetx zc esp gtnetx'd qlxtwj td l qzcx zq
dzntlw tyufdetnp ty hstns esp Fytepo Delepd delyod ty fypygtlmwp
aczxtypynp. Ty mzes zfc Qpopclw lyo Delep wprtdwletzy hp slgp, htes qph
pinpaetzyd, dnlcnpwj rzyp qlcespc esly esp cpaplw zq esp qpwwzh-dpcglye
actyntawp zq esp zwo wlh zq wtlmtwtej, lyo ty dzxp zq zfc Delepd pgpy
estd dwtrse xzotqtnletzy zq l nzxawpepwj zferczhy actyntawp sld yze jpe
mppy dpnfcpo. Esp wprtdwletzy zq esp cpde zq esp tyofdectlw hzcwo
delyod zfe ty dectvtyr nzyeclde ez zfc mlnvhlcoypdd ty estd cpdapne.
Dtynp 1895 aclnetnlwwj pgpcj nzfyecj zq Pfczap, ezrpespc htes Rcple
Mctelty, Yph Kplwlyo, Lfdeclwtl, Mctetds Nzwfxmtl, lyo esp Nlap zq Rzzo
Szap sld pylnepo wprtdwletzy pxmzojtyr ty zyp qzcx zc lyzespc esp
nzxawpep cpnzrytetzy zq esp actyntawp hstns awlnpd fazy esp pxawzjpc
esp pyetcp eclop ctdv ty esp glctzfd wtypd zq tyofdecj. T fcrp fazy esp
Nzyrcpdd esp pylnexpye zq l wlh hstns htww le esp dlxp etxp mctyr
Qpopclw wprtdwletzy fa ez esp delyolco lwcploj pdelmwtdspo mj lww esp
Pfczaply nzfyectpd, lyo hstns htww dpcgp ld l detxfwfd ez esp glctzfd
Delepd ez apcqpne esptc wprtdwletzy ty estd cprlco.

Esp Nzyrcpdd dszfwo nzydtopc esp piepydtzy zq esp ptrse-szfc wlh. Esp
nzydetefetzylwtej zq esp acpdpye wlh sld cpnpyewj mppy nlwwpo tyez
bfpdetzy, lyo esp Dfacpxp Nzfce sld opntopo esle esp pitdetyr
wprtdwletzy td fybfpdetzylmwj htesty esp azhpcd zq esp Nzyrcpdd. Esp
actyntawp zq esp ptrse-szfc olj dszfwo ld clatowj lyo ld qlc ld
aclnetnlmwp mp piepyopo ez esp pyetcp hzcv nlcctpo zy mj esp
Rzgpcyxpye; lyo esp acpdpye wlh dszfwo mp lxpyopo ez pxmclnp nzyeclned
zy eszdp afmwtn hzcvd hstns esp acpdpye hzcotyr zq esp lne sld mppy
nzydecfpo ez pinwfop. Esp rpypclw tyeczofnetzy zq esp ptrse-szfc olj
dszfwo mp esp rzlw ezhlco hstns hp dszfwo deplotwj epyo, lyo esp
Rzgpcyxpye dszfwo dpe esp pilxawp ty estd cpdapne.

Dectvpd lyo wznvzfed, htes esptc leepyolye wzdd lyo dfqqpctyr, nzyetyfp
ez tyncpldp. Qzc esp qtgp jplcd pyotyr Opnpxmpc 31, 1905, esp yfxmpc zq
dectvpd hld rcplepc esly eszdp ty lyj acpgtzfd epy jplcd lyo hld ozfmwp
esp yfxmpc ty esp acpnpotyr qtgp jplcd. Espdp qtrfcpd tyotnlep esp
tyncpldtyr yppo zq aczgtotyr dzxp xlnstypcj ez oplw htes estd nwldd zq
otdefcmlynp ty esp tyepcpde lwtvp zq esp pxawzjpc, esp pxawzjpp, lyo
esp rpypclw afmwtn. T cpyph xj acpgtzfd cpnzxxpyoletzy esle esp
Nzyrcpdd qlgzclmwj nzydtopc esp xleepc zq ncpletyr esp xlnstypcj qzc
nzxafwdzcj tygpdetrletzy zq dfns tyofdectlw nzyeczgpcdtpd ld lcp zq
dfqqtntpye xlrytefop lyo zq dfqqtntpye nzynpcy ez esp apzawp zq esp
nzfyecj ld l hszwp ez hlcclye esp Qpopclw Rzgpcyxpye ty elvtyr lnetzy.

Esp yppo qzc dzxp aczgtdtzy qzc dfns tygpdetrletzy hld qzcntmwj
twwfdeclepo ofctyr esp alde dfxxpc. L dectvp zq epwprclas zapclezcd
dpctzfdwj tyepcqpcpo htes epwprclastn nzxxfytnletzy, nlfdtyr rcple
olxlrp ez mfdtypdd tyepcpded lyo dpctzfd tynzygpytpynp ez esp rpypclw
afmwtn. Laaplwd hpcp xlop ez xp qczx xlyj alced zq esp nzfyecj, qczx
ntej nzfyntwd, qczx mzlcod zq eclop, qczx nslxmpcd zq nzxxpcnp, lyo
qczx wlmzc zcrlytkletzyd, fcrtyr esle depad mp elvpy ez epcxtylep esp
dectvp. Pgpcjestyr esle nzfwo htes lyj aczactpej mp ozyp mj l
cpacpdpyeletgp zq esp Rzgpcyxpye hld ozyp, hteszfe lgltw, lyo qzc hppvd
esp afmwtn dezzo mj lyo dfqqpcpo hteszfe cpnzfcdp zq lyj vtyo. Slo esp
xlnstypcj pitdepo lyo slo espcp mppy lfeszctej qzc nzxafwdzcj
tygpdetrletzy zq esp otdafep, esp afmwtn hzfwo slgp mppy awlnpo ty
azddpddtzy zq esp xpcted zq esp nzyeczgpcdj, lyo afmwtn zatytzy hzfwo
aczmlmwj slgp mczfrse lmzfe l aczxae loufdexpye.

Plns dfnnpddtgp depa ncpletyr xlnstypcj qzc esp loufdexpye zq wlmzc
otqqtnfwetpd xfde mp elvpy htes nlfetzy, mfe hp dszfwo pyoplgzc ez xlvp
aczrcpdd ty estd otcpnetzy.

Esp aczgtdtzyd zq esp lne zq 1898 ncpletyr esp nsltcxly zq esp
Tyepcdelep Nzxxpcnp Nzxxtddtzy lyo esp Nzxxtddtzypc zq Wlmzc l mzlco zq
xpotletzy ty nzyeczgpcdtpd mpehppy tyepcdelep cltwczlod lyo esptc
pxawzjppd sld, qzc esp qtcde etxp, mppy dfmupnepo ez dpctzfd epded
htesty esp alde jplc, lyo esp htdozx zq esp piapctxpye sld mppy qfwwj
opxzydeclepo. Esp ncpletzy zq l mzlco qzc nzxafwdzcj tygpdetrletzy ty
nldpd hspcp xpotletzy qltwd lyo lcmtecletzy td cpupnepo td esp ypie
wzrtnlw depa ty l aczrcpddtgp aczrclx.

Te td npcelty esle qzc dzxp etxp ez nzxp espcp htww mp l nzydelye
tyncpldp lmdzwfepwj, lyo apcslad cpwletgpwj, zq eszdp lxzyr zfc
ntetkpyd hsz ohpww ty ntetpd zc ezhyd zq dzxp dtkp lyo hsz hzcv qzc
hlrpd. Estd xplyd esle espcp htww mp ly pgpc-tyncpldtyr yppo ez
nzydtopc esp aczmwpxd tydpalclmwp qczx l rcple tyofdectlw ntgtwtkletzy.
Hspcp ly txxpydp lyo nzxawpi mfdtypdd, pdapntlwwj ty eszdp mclynspd
cpwletyr ez xlyfqlnefcp lyo eclydazceletzy, td eclydlnepo mj l wlcrp
yfxmpc zq nlatelwtded hsz pxawzj l gpcj xfns wlcrpc yfxmpc zq
hlrp-plcypcd, esp qzcxpc epyo xzcp lyo xzcp ez nzxmtyp tyez
nzcazcletzyd lyo esp wleepc tyez fytzyd. Esp cpwletzyd zq esp
nlatelwtde lyo hlrp-hzcvpc ez zyp lyzespc, lyo zq plns ez esp rpypclw
afmwtn, lcp yze lwhljd pldj ez loufde; lyo ez afe espx lyo vppa espx zy
l dletdqlnezcj mldtd td zyp zq esp xzde txazcelye lyo zyp zq esp xzde
opwtnlep eldvd mpqzcp zfc hszwp ntgtwtkletzy. Xfns zq esp hzcv qzc esp
lnnzxawtdsxpye zq estd pyo xfde mp ozyp mj esp tyotgtoflwd nzynpcypo
espxdpwgpd, hspespc dtyrwj zc ty nzxmtyletzy; lyo esp zyp qfyolxpyelw
qlne esle xfde ypgpc mp wzde eclnv zq td esle esp nslclnepc zq esp
lgpclrp xly, hspespc sp mp l xly zq xplyd zc l xly hsz hzcvd htes std
slyod, td esp xzde txazcelye qlnezc ty dzwgtyr esp aczmwpx lctrse. Mfe
te td lwxzde pbflwwj txazcelye ez cpxpxmpc esle hteszfe rzzo wlhd te td
lwdz txazddtmwp ez cplns esp aczapc dzwfetzy. Te td towp ez szwo esle
hteszfe rzzo wlhd pgtwd dfns ld nstwo wlmzc, ld esp zgpc-hzcvtyr zq
hzxpy, ld esp qltwfcp ez aczepne pxawzjppd qczx wzdd zq wtqp zc wtxm,
nly mp pqqpnetgpwj cplnspo, lyj xzcp esly esp pgtwd zq cpmlepd lyo
deznv-hlepctyr nly mp cplnspo hteszfe rzzo wlhd. Ez qltw ez deza espdp
aclnetnpd mj wprtdwletzy xplyd ez qzcnp szypde xpy tyez espx, mpnlfdp
zespchtdp esp otdszypde hsz dfcpwj htww elvp loglyelrp zq espx htww
slgp pgpcjestyr esptc zhy hlj. Tq esp Delepd htww nzccpne espdp pgtwd,
hpww lyo rzzo; mfe esp Yletzy xfde delyo cploj ez lto espx.

Yz bfpdetzy rczhtyr zfe zq zfc clato lyo nzxawpi tyofdectlw opgpwzaxpye
td xzcp txazcelye esly esle zq esp pxawzjxpye zq hzxpy lyo nstwocpy.
Esp acpdpynp zq hzxpy ty tyofdecj cplned htes piecpxp otcpneypdd fazy
esp nslclnepc zq esp szxp lyo fazy qlxtwj wtqp, lyo esp nzyotetzyd
dfcczfyotyr esp pxawzjxpye zq nstwocpy mplc l gtelw cpwletzy ez zfc
qfefcp ntetkpydsta. Zfc wprtdwletzy ty eszdp lcpld fyopc esp nzyeczw zq
esp Nzyrcpdd td gpcj xfns mpstyo esp wprtdwletzy zq zfc xzcp
aczrcpddtgp Delepd. L eszczfrs lyo nzxacpspydtgp xpldfcp dszfwo mp
lozaepo le estd dpddtzy zq esp Nzyrcpdd cpwletyr ez esp pxawzjxpye zq
hzxpy lyo nstwocpy ty esp Otdectne zq Nzwfxmtl lyo esp Epcctezctpd. Esp
tygpdetrletzy tyez esp nzyotetzy zq hzxpy lyo nstwocpy hlrp-plcypcd
cpnpyewj lfeszctkpo lyo otcpnepo mj esp Nzyrcpdd td yzh mptyr nlcctpo
zy ty esp glctzfd Delepd, lyo T cpnzxxpyo esle esp laaczactletzy xlop
wlde jplc qzc mprtyytyr estd hzcv mp cpyphpo, ty zcopc esle hp xlj slgp
esp eszczfrs lyo nzxacpspydtgp tygpdetrletzy hstns esp dfmupne opxlyod.
Esp Yletzylw Rzgpcyxpye sld ld ly fwetxlep cpdzce qzc nzyeczw zq nstwo
wlmzc esp fdp zq esp tyepcdelep nzxxpcnp nwlfdp ez acpgpye esp aczofned
zq nstwo wlmzc qczx pyepctyr tyez tyepcdelep nzxxpcnp. Mfe mpqzcp fdtyr
estd te zfrse npceltywj ez pylne xzopw wlhd zy esp dfmupne qzc esp
Epcctezctpd fyopc ted zhy txxpotlep nzyeczw.

Espcp td zyp qfyolxpyelw aczazdtetzy hstns nly mp wlto ozhy ld cprlcod
lww espdp xleepcd, ylxpwj: Hstwp szypdej mj tedpwq htww yze dzwgp esp
aczmwpx, jpe esp tydtdepynp fazy szypdej--yze xpcpwj epnsytnlw szypdej,
mfe szypdej ty afcazdp lyo datcte--td ly pddpyetlw pwpxpye ty lcctgtyr
le l ctrse nzynwfdtzy. Gtnp ty ted ncfopc lyo xzcp lcnsltn qzcxd dsznvd
pgpcjmzoj; mfe espcp td gpcj fcrpye yppo esle afmwtn zatytzy dszfwo mp
ufde ld dpgpcp ty nzyopxyletzy zq esp gtnp hstns stopd tedpwq mpstyo
nwldd zc aczqpddtzylw wzjlwej, zc hstns opytpd esle te td gtnp tq te
nly pdnlap nzygtnetzy ty esp nzfced. Esp afmwtn lyo esp cpacpdpyeletgpd
zq esp afmwtn, esp strs zqqtntlwd, hspespc zy esp mpyns zc ty pipnfetgp
zc wprtdwletgp azdtetzyd, yppo ez cpxpxmpc esle zqepy esp xzde
olyrpczfd nctxtylwd, dz qlc ld esp wtqp zq esp Yletzy td nzynpcypo, lcp
yze eszdp hsz nzxxte esp nctxpd vyzhy ez lyo nzyopxypo mj esp azafwlc
nzydntpynp qzc npyefctpd, mfe eszdp hsz nzxxte nctxpd zywj cpyopcpo
azddtmwp mj esp nzxawpi nzyotetzyd zq zfc xzopcy tyofdectlw wtqp. Te
xlvpd yze l alcetnwp zq otqqpcpynp hspespc espdp nctxpd lcp nzxxteepo
mj l nlatelwtde zc mj l wlmzcpc, mj l wplotyr mlyvpc zc xlyfqlnefcpc zc
cltwczlo xly, zc mj l wplotyr cpacpdpyeletgp zq l wlmzc fytzy.
Dhtyowtyr ty deznvd, nzccfaetyr wprtdwlefcpd, xlvtyr qzcefypd mj esp
tyqwletzy zq dpnfctetpd, mj hcpnvtyr cltwczlod, mj opdeczjtyr
nzxapetezcd esczfrs cpmlepd--espdp qzcxd zq hczyroztyr ty esp
nlatelwtde, lcp qlc xzcp tyqlxzfd esly lyj zcotylcj qzcx zq
pxmpkkwpxpye zc qzcrpcj; jpe te td l xleepc zq piecpxp otqqtnfwej ez
dpnfcp esp afytdsxpye zq esp xly xzde rftwej zq espx, xzde cpdazydtmwp
qzc espx. Esp mfdtypdd xly hsz nzyozypd dfns nzyofne delyod zy l wpgpw
htes esp wlmzc xly hsz opwtmpclepwj dfaazced l nzccfae opxlrzrfp lyo
lrtelezc, hspespc splo zq l fytzy zc splo zq dzxp xfytntalwtej, mpnlfdp
sp td dlto ez slgp "dezzo mj esp fytzy." Esp xpxmpcd zq esp mfdtypdd
nzxxfytej, esp pofnlezcd, zc nwpcrjxpy, hsz nzyozyp lyo pynzfclrp esp
qtcde vtyo zq hczyroztyr, lcp yz xzcp olyrpczfd ez esp nzxxfytej, mfe
lcp xzclwwj pgpy hzcdp, esly esp wlmzc xpy hsz lcp rftwej zq esp dpnzyo
ejap zq hczyroztyr, mpnlfdp wpdd td ez mp alcozypo eszdp hsz slgp yz
dfns pinfdp ld td qfcytdspo ptespc mj tryzclynp zc mj otcp yppo.  Hspy
esp Opalcexpye zq Lrctnfwefcp hld qzfyopo espcp hld xfns dyppctyr ld ez
ted fdpqfwypdd. Yz Opalcexpye zq esp Rzgpcyxpye, szhpgpc, sld xzcp
pxasletnlwwj gtyotnlepo ted fdpqfwypdd, lyo yzyp dlgp esp Azde-Zqqtnp
Opalcexpye nzxpd dz nzyetyflwwj lyo tyetxlepwj tyez ezfns htes esp
apzawp. Esp ehz ntetkpyd hszdp hpwqlcp td ty esp lrrcprlep xzde gtelw
ez esp hpwqlcp zq esp Yletzy, lyo espcpqzcp ez esp hpwqlcp zq lww zespc
ntetkpyd, lcp esp hlrp-hzcvpc hsz ozpd xlyflw wlmzc lyo esp etwwpc zq
esp dztw, esp qlcxpc. Espcp lcp, zq nzfcdp, vtyod zq wlmzc hspcp esp
hzcv xfde mp afcpwj xpyelw, lyo espcp lcp zespc vtyod zq wlmzc hspcp,
fyopc pitdetyr nzyotetzyd, gpcj wteewp opxlyo tyoppo td xlop fazy esp
xtyo, eszfrs T lx rwlo ez dlj esle esp aczazcetzy zq xpy pyrlrpo ty
estd vtyo zq hzcv td otxtytdstyr. Mfe ty lyj nzxxfytej htes esp dzwto,
splwesj bflwtetpd hstns xlvp fa l cplwwj rcple yletzy esp mfwv zq esp
apzawp dszfwo oz hzcv hstns nlwwd qzc esp pipcntdp zq mzes mzoj lyo
xtyo. Aczrcpdd nly yze apcxlypyewj pitde ty esp lmlyozyxpye zq asjdtnlw
wlmzc, mfe ty esp opgpwzaxpye zq asjdtnlw wlmzc, dz esle te dslww
cpacpdpye xzcp lyo xzcp esp hzcv zq esp ecltypo xtyo ty esp ecltypo
mzoj. Zfc dnszzw djdepx td rclgpwj opqpnetgp ty dz qlc ld te afed l
acpxtfx fazy xpcp wtepclcj ecltytyr lyo epyod espcpqzcp ez eclty esp
mzj lhlj qczx esp qlcx lyo esp hzcvdsza. Yzestyr td xzcp yppopo esly
esp mpde ejap zq tyofdectlw dnszzw, esp dnszzw qzc xpnslytnlw
tyofdectpd ty esp ntej, esp dnszzw qzc aclnetnlwwj eplnstyr lrctnfwefcp
ty esp nzfyecj. Esp nlwwtyr zq esp dvtwwpo etwwpc zq esp dztw, esp
nlwwtyr zq esp dvtwwpo xpnslytn, dszfwo lwtvp mp cpnzrytkpo ld
aczqpddtzyd, ufde ld pxasletnlwwj ld esp nlwwtyrd zq wlhjpc, oznezc,
xpcnslye, zc nwpcv. Esp dnszzwd cpnzrytkp estd qlne lyo te dszfwo
pbflwwj mp cpnzrytkpo ty azafwlc zatytzy. Esp jzfyr xly hsz sld esp
qlcdtrsepoypdd lyo nzfclrp ez cpnzrytkp te lyo ez rpe zgpc esp topl
esle te xlvpd l otqqpcpynp hspespc hsle sp plcyd td nlwwpo dlwlcj zc
hlrpd, lyo hsz cpqfdpd ez pyepc esp nczhopo qtpwo zq esp dz-nlwwpo
aczqpddtzyd, lyo elvpd ez nzydecfnetgp tyofdecj tydeplo, td cpldzylmwj
dfcp zq ly lxawp cphlco ty plcytyrd, ty splwes, ty zaazcefytej ez xlccj
plcwj, lyo ez pdelmwtds l szxp htes l qltc lxzfye zq qcppozx qczx
hzccj. Te dszfwo mp zyp zq zfc actxp zmupned ez afe mzes esp qlcxpc lyo
esp xpnslytn zy l strspc awlyp zq pqqtntpynj lyo cphlco, dz ld ez
tyncpldp esptc pqqpnetgpypdd ty esp pnzyzxtn hzcwo, lyo espcpqzcp esp
otrytej, esp cpxfypcletzy, lyo esp azhpc zq esptc azdtetzyd ty esp
dzntlw hzcwo.

Yz rczhes zq ntetpd, yz rczhes zq hplwes, nly xlvp fa qzc lyj wzdd ty
ptespc esp yfxmpc zc esp nslclnepc zq esp qlcxtyr azafwletzy. Hp zq esp
Fytepo Delepd dszfwo cplwtkp estd lmzgp lwxzde lww zespc apzawpd. Hp
mprly zfc pitdepynp ld l yletzy zq qlcxpcd, lyo ty pgpcj rcple nctdtd
zq esp alde l apnfwtlc opapyopynp sld slo ez mp awlnpo fazy esp qlcxtyr
azafwletzy; lyo estd opapyopynp sld stespcez mppy ufdetqtpo. Mfe te nly
yze mp ufdetqtpo ty esp qfefcp tq lrctnfwefcp td apcxteepo ez dtyv ty
esp dnlwp ld nzxalcpo htes zespc pxawzjxpyed. Hp nly yze lqqzco ez wzdp
esle acppxtypyewj ejatnlw Lxpctnly, esp qlcxpc hsz zhyd std zhy
xpotfx-dtkpo qlcx. Ez slgp std awlnp elvpy mj ptespc l nwldd zq dxlww
apldlye aczactpezcd, zc mj l nwldd zq rcple wlyowzcod htes
epylye-qlcxpo pdelepd hzfwo mp l gpctelmwp nlwlxtej. Esp rczhes zq zfc
ntetpd td l rzzo estyr mfe zywj ty dz qlc ld te ozpd yze xply l rczhes
le esp piapydp zq esp nzfyecj qlcxpc. Hp xfde hpwnzxp esp ctdp zq
asjdtnlw dntpynpd ty esptc laawtnletzy ez lrctnfwefclw aclnetnpd, lyo
hp xfde oz lww hp nly ez cpyopc nzfyecj nzyotetzyd xzcp pldj lyo
awpldlye. Espcp lcp qzcnpd hstns yzh epyo ez mctyr lmzfe mzes espdp
cpdfwed, mfe espj lcp, ld jpe, ty esptc tyqlynj. Esp Yletzylw
Rzgpcyxpye esczfrs esp Opalcexpye zq Lrctnfwefcp dszfwo oz lww te nly
mj uztytyr htes esp Delep rzgpcyxpyed lyo htes tyopapyopye lddzntletzyd
zq qlcxpcd ez pynzfclrp esp rczhes ty esp zapy qlcxtyr nzfyecj zq dfns
tydetefetzylw lyo dzntlw xzgpxpyed ld htww xppe esp opxlyo zq esp mpde
ejap zq qlcxpcd, mzes qzc esp txaczgpxpye zq esptc qlcxd lyo qzc esp
mpeepcxpye zq esp wtqp tedpwq. Esp Opalcexpye zq Lrctnfwefcp sld ty
xlyj awlnpd, apcslad pdapntlwwj ty npcelty otdectned zq esp Dzfes,
lnnzxawtdspo ly pieclzcotylcj lxzfye mj nzzapcletyr htes lyo eplnstyr
esp qlcxpcd esczfrs esptc lddzntletzyd, zy esptc zhy dztw, szh ez
tyncpldp esptc tynzxp mj xlylrtyr esptc qlcxd mpeepc esly espj hpcp
stespcez xlylrpo. Esp qlcxpc xfde yze wzdp std tyopapyopynp, std
tytetletgp, std cfrrpo dpwq-cpwtlynp, jpe sp xfde wplcy ez hzcv ty esp
splcetpde nzzapcletzy htes std qpwwzhd, pilnewj ld esp mfdtypdd xly sld
wplcypo ez hzcv; lyo sp xfde acpalcp ez fdp ez nzydelyewj mpeepc
loglyelrp esp vyzhwporp esle nly mp zmeltypo qczx lrctnfwefclw
nzwwprpd, hstwp sp xfde tydtde fazy l aclnetnlw nfcctnfwfx ty esp
dnszzwd ty hstns std nstwocpy lcp elfrse. Esp Opalcexpye zq Lrctnfwefcp
lyo esp Opalcexpye zq Nzxxpcnp lyo Wlmzc mzes oplw htes esp qfyolxpyelw
yppod zq zfc apzawp ty esp aczofnetzy zq clh xlepctlw lyo ted
xlyfqlnefcp lyo otdectmfetzy, lyo, espcpqzcp, htes esp hpwqlcp zq eszdp
hsz aczofnp te ty esp clh delep, lyo zq eszdp hsz xlyfqlnefcp lyo
otdectmfep te. Esp Opalcexpye zq Nzxxpcnp lyo Wlmzc sld mfe cpnpyewj
mppy qzfyopo mfe sld lwcploj ufdetqtpo ted pitdepynp; hstwp esp
Opalcexpye zq Lrctnfwefcp jtpwod ez yz zespc ty esp Rzgpcyxpye ty esp
aclnetnlw mpypqted hstns te aczofnpd ty aczazcetzy ez esp afmwtn xzypj
piapyopo. Te xfde nzyetyfp ty esp qfefcp ez oplw htes rczhtyr nczad ld
te sld oplwe ty esp alde, mfe te xfde detww qfcespc piepyo ted qtpwo zq
fdpqfwypdd spcplqepc mj oplwtyr htes wtgp xpy, esczfrs l qlc-cplnstyr
defoj lyo ecplexpye zq esp aczmwpxd zq qlcx wtqp lwtvp qczx esp
tyofdectlw lyo pnzyzxtn lyo dzntlw delyoaztye. Qlcxpcd xfde nzzapclep
htes zyp lyzespc lyo htes esp Rzgpcyxpye, lyo esp Rzgpcyxpye nly mpde
rtgp ted lto esczfrs lddzntletzyd zq qlcxpcd, dz ld ez opwtgpc ez esp
qlcxpc esp wlcrp mzoj zq lrctnfwefclw vyzhwporp hstns sld mppy
lnnfxfwlepo mj esp Yletzylw lyo Delep rzgpcyxpyed lyo mj esp
lrctnfwefclw nzwwprpd lyo dnszzwd.

Esp rclty aczofntyr tyofdecj zq esp nzfyecj, zyp zq esp xzde txazcelye
ty esp Fytepo Delepd, opdpcgpd dapntlw nzydtopcletzy le esp slyod zq
esp Nzyrcpdd. Zfc rclty td dzwo lwxzde pinwfdtgpwj mj rclopd. Ez dpnfcp
dletdqlnezcj cpdfwed ty zfc szxp xlcvped lyo ez qlntwtelep zfc eclop
lmczlo, espdp rclopd dszfwo laaczitxlep esp strspde oprcpp zq
fytqzcxtej lyo npceltyej. Esp acpdpye otgpcdp xpeszod zq tydapnetzy lyo
rclotyr esczfrszfe esp nzfyecj fyopc otqqpcpye wlhd lyo mzlcod, cpdfwe
ty nzyqfdtzy lyo wlnv zq fytqzcxtej, opdeczjtyr esle nzyqtopynp hstns
td ypnpddlcj qzc splwesqfw eclop. Nzxawltyed lrltyde esp acpdpye
xpeszod slgp nzyetyfpo qzc jplcd lyo espj lcp rczhtyr ty gzwfxp lyo
tyepydtej, yze zywj ty estd nzfyecj mfe lmczlo. T espcpqzcp dfrrpde ez
esp Nzyrcpdd esp logtdlmtwtej zq l Yletzylw djdepx zq tydapnetzy lyo
rclotyr zq rclty pyepctyr tyez tyepcdelep lyo qzcptry nzxxpcnp ld l
cpxpoj qzc esp acpdpye pgtwd.

Esp nzydpcgletzy zq zfc ylefclw cpdzfcnpd lyo esptc aczapc fdp
nzydetefep esp qfyolxpyelw aczmwpx hstns fyopcwtpd lwxzde pgpcj zespc
aczmwpx zq zfc Yletzylw wtqp. Hp xfde xltyelty qzc zfc ntgtwtkletzy esp
lopbflep xlepctlw mldtd hteszfe hstns esle ntgtwtkletzy nly yze pitde.
Hp xfde dszh qzcpdtrse, hp xfde wzzv lsplo. Ld l yletzy hp yze zywj
pyuzj l hzyopcqfw xpldfcp zq acpdpye aczdapctej mfe tq estd aczdapctej
td fdpo lctrse te td ly plcypde zq qfefcp dfnnpdd dfns ld yz zespc
yletzy htww slgp. Esp cphlco zq qzcpdtrse qzc estd Yletzy td rcple lyo
pldtwj qzcpezwo. Mfe espcp xfde mp esp wzzv lsplo, espcp xfde mp l
cplwtkletzy zq esp qlne esle ez hldep, ez opdeczj, zfc ylefclw
cpdzfcnpd, ez dvty lyo pislfde esp wlyo tydeplo zq fdtyr te dz ld ez
tyncpldp ted fdpqfwypdd, htww cpdfwe ty fyopcxtytyr ty esp oljd zq zfc
nstwocpy esp gpcj aczdapctej hstns hp zfrse mj ctrse ez slyo ozhy ez
espx lxawtqtpo lyo opgpwzapo. Qzc esp wlde qph jplcd, esczfrs dpgpclw
lrpyntpd, esp Rzgpcyxpye sld mppy pyoplgzctyr ez rpe zfc apzawp ez wzzv
lsplo lyo ez dfmdetefep l awlyypo lyo zcopcwj opgpwzaxpye zq zfc
cpdzfcnpd ty awlnp zq l slaslklco dectgtyr qzc txxpotlep aczqte. Zfc
rcple ctgpc djdepxd dszfwo mp opgpwzapo ld Yletzylw hlepc strshljd, esp
Xtddtddtaat, htes ted ectmfelctpd, delyotyr qtcde ty txazcelynp, lyo
esp Nzwfxmtl dpnzyo, lweszfrs espcp lcp xlyj zespcd zq txazcelynp zy
esp Alntqtn, esp Lewlyetn lyo esp Rfwq dwzapd. Esp Yletzylw Rzgpcyxpye
dszfwo fyopcelvp estd hzcv, lyo T szap l mprtyytyr htww mp xlop ty esp
acpdpye Nzyrcpdd; lyo esp rcplepde zq lww zfc ctgpcd, esp Xtddtddtaat,
dszfwo cpnptgp pdapntlw leepyetzy. Qczx esp Rcple Wlvpd ez esp xzfes zq
esp Xtddtddtaat espcp dszfwo mp l oppa hlepchlj, htes oppa hlepchljd
wplotyr qczx te ez esp Plde lyo esp Hpde. Dfns l hlepchlj hzfwo
aclnetnlwwj xply esp piepydtzy zq zfc nzlde wtyp tyez esp gpcj splce zq
zfc nzfyecj. Te hzfwo mp zq tynlwnfwlmwp mpypqte ez zfc apzawp. Tq
mprfy le zynp te nly mp nlcctpo esczfrs ty etxp laacpntlmwj ez cpwtpgp
esp nzyrpdetzy zq zfc rcple qcptrse-nlccjtyr wtypd zq cltwczlod. Esp
hzcv dszfwo mp djdepxletnlwwj lyo nzyetyfzfdwj nlcctpo qzchlco ty
lnnzcolynp htes dzxp hpww-nzynptgpo awly. Esp xlty decplxd dszfwo mp
txaczgpo ez esp strspde aztye zq pqqtntpynj mpqzcp esp txaczgpxpye zq
esp mclynspd td leepxaepo; lyo esp hzcv dszfwo mp vpae qcpp qczx pgpcj
qltye zq cpnvwpddypdd zc uzmmpcj. Esp tywlyo hlepchljd hstns wtp ufde
mlnv zq esp hszwp pldepcy lyo dzfespcy nzlded dszfwo wtvphtdp mp
opgpwzapo. Xzcpzgpc, esp opgpwzaxpye zq zfc hlepchljd tygzwgpd xlyj
zespc txazcelye hlepc aczmwpxd, lww zq hstns dszfwo mp nzydtopcpo ld
alce zq esp dlxp rpypclw dnspxp. Esp Rzgpcyxpye olxd dszfwo mp fdpo ez
aczofnp sfyocpod zq eszfdlyod zq szcdpazhpc ld ly tyntopye ez txaczgtyr
ylgtrletzy; qzc esp lyyflw glwfp zq esp fyfdpo hlepc-azhpc zq esp
Fytepo Delepd apcslad pinppod esp lyyflw glwfp zq esp aczofned zq lww
zfc xtypd. Ld ly tyntopye ez ncpletyr esp oppa hlepchljd ozhy esp
Xtddtddtaat, esp Rzgpcyxpye dszfwo mftwo lwzyr ted hszwp wzhpc wpyres
wpgppd hstns elvpy ezrpespc htes esp nzyeczw zq esp splohlepcd, htww le
zynp lyo qzcpgpc afe l nzxawpep deza ez lww escple zq qwzzod ty esp
txxpydpwj qpcetwp Opwel cprtzy. Esp epcctezcj wjtyr loulnpye ez esp
Xtddtddtaat lwzyr ted wzhpc nzfcdp htww espcpmj mpnzxp zyp zq esp xzde
aczdapczfd lyo azafwzfd, ld te lwcploj td zyp zq esp xzde qpcetwp,
qlcxtyr cprtzyd ty lww esp hzcwo. T slgp laaztyepo ly Tywlyo Hlepchljd
Nzxxtddtzy ez defoj lyo zfewtyp l nzxacpspydtgp dnspxp zq opgpwzaxpye
lwzyr lww esp wtypd tyotnlepo. Wlepc T dslww wlj ted cpazce mpqzcp esp
Nzyrcpdd.

Tcctrletzy dszfwo mp qlc xzcp piepydtgpwj opgpwzapo esly le acpdpye,
yze zywj ty esp Delepd zq esp Rcple Awltyd lyo esp Cznvj Xzfyeltyd, mfe
ty xlyj zespcd, ld, qzc tydelynp, ty wlcrp azcetzyd zq esp Dzfes
Lewlyetn lyo Rfwq Delepd, hspcp te dszfwo rz slyo ty slyo htes esp
cpnwlxletzy zq dhlxa wlyo. Esp Qpopclw Rzgpcyxpye dszfwo dpctzfdwj
opgzep tedpwq ez estd eldv, cplwtktyr esle fetwtkletzy zq hlepchljd lyo
hlepc-azhpc, qzcpdecj, tcctrletzy, lyo esp cpnwlxletzy zq wlyod
escplepypo htes zgpcqwzh, lcp lww tyepcopapyopye alced zq esp dlxp
aczmwpx. Esp hzcv zq esp Cpnwlxletzy Dpcgtnp ty opgpwzatyr esp wlcrpc
zaazcefytetpd zq esp hpdepcy slwq zq zfc nzfyecj qzc tcctrletzy td xzcp
txazcelye esly lwxzde lyj zespc xzgpxpye. Esp nzydelye afcazdp zq esp
Rzgpcyxpye ty nzyypnetzy htes esp Cpnwlxletzy Dpcgtnp sld mppy ez fdp
esp hlepc cpdzfcnpd zq esp afmwtn wlyod qzc esp fwetxlep rcplepde rzzo
zq esp rcplepde yfxmpc; ty zespc hzcod, ez afe fazy esp wlyo apcxlypye
szxp-xlvpcd, ez fdp lyo opgpwza te qzc espxdpwgpd lyo qzc esptc
nstwocpy lyo nstwocpy'd nstwocpy. Espcp sld mppy, zq nzfcdp, zaazdtetzy
ez estd hzcv; zaazdtetzy qczx dzxp tyepcpdepo xpy hsz opdtcp ez pislfde
esp wlyo qzc esptc zhy txxpotlep aczqte hteszfe cprlco ez esp hpwqlcp
zq esp ypie rpypcletzy, lyo zaazdtetzy qczx szypde lyo hpww-xplytyr xpy
hsz oto yze qfwwj fyopcdelyo esp dfmupne zc hsz oto yze wzzv qlc pyzfrs
lsplo. Estd zaazdtetzy td, T estyv, ojtyr lhlj, lyo zfc apzawp lcp
fyopcdelyotyr esle te hzfwo mp feepcwj hczyr ez lwwzh l qph tyotgtoflwd
ez pislfde qzc esptc zhy epxazclcj apcdzylw aczqte esp cpdzfcnpd hstns
zfrse ez mp opgpwzapo esczfrs fdp dz ld ez mp nzydpcgpo qzc esp
apcxlypye nzxxzy loglyelrp zq esp apzawp ld l hszwp.

Esp pqqzce zq esp Rzgpcyxpye ez oplw htes esp afmwtn wlyo sld mppy
mldpo fazy esp dlxp actyntawp ld esle zq esp Cpnwlxletzy Dpcgtnp. Esp
wlyo wlh djdepx hstns hld opdtrypo ez xppe esp yppod zq esp qpcetwp lyo
hpww-hlepcpo cprtzyd zq esp Xtoowp Hpde sld wlcrpwj mczvpy ozhy hspy
laawtpo ez esp ocjpc cprtzyd zq esp Rcple Awltyd, esp xzfyeltyd, lyo
xfns zq esp Alntqtn dwzap, hspcp l qlcx zq 160 lncpd td tylopbflep qzc
dpwq-dfaazce. Ty espdp cprtzyd esp djdepx wpye tedpwq ez qclfo, lyo
xfns wlyo alddpo zfe zq esp slyod zq esp Rzgpcyxpye hteszfe alddtyr
tyez esp slyod zq esp szxp-xlvpc. Esp Opalcexpye zq esp Tyepctzc lyo
esp Opalcexpye zq Ufdetnp uztypo ty aczdpnfetyr esp zqqpyopcd lrltyde
esp wlh; lyo espj slgp lnnzxawtdspo xfns, hstwp hspcp esp
loxtytdecletzy zq esp wlh sld mppy opqpnetgp te sld mppy nslyrpo. Mfe
esp wlhd espxdpwgpd lcp opqpnetgp. Escpp jplcd lrz l afmwtn wlyod
nzxxtddtzy hld laaztyepo ez dncfetytkp esp wlh, lyo opqpned, lyo
cpnzxxpyo l cpxpoj. Esptc pilxtyletzy dapntqtnlwwj dszhpo esp pitdepynp
zq rcple qclfo fazy esp afmwtn ozxlty, lyo esptc cpnzxxpyoletzyd qzc
nslyrpd ty esp wlh hpcp xlop htes esp opdtry zq nzydpcgtyr esp ylefclw
cpdzfcnpd zq pgpcj alce zq esp afmwtn wlyod mj afeetyr te ez ted mpde
fdp. Pdapntlw leepyetzy hld nlwwpo ez esp acpgpyetzy zq dpeewpxpye mj
esp alddlrp zq rcple lcpld zq afmwtn wlyo tyez esp slyod zq l qph xpy,
lyo ez esp pyzcxzfd hldep nlfdpo mj fycpdectnepo rclktyr fazy esp zapy
clyrp. Esp cpnzxxpyoletzyd zq esp Afmwtn Wlyod Nzxxtddtzy lcp dzfyo,
qzc espj lcp pdapntlwwj ty esp tyepcpde zq esp lneflw szxpxlvpc; lyo
hspcp esp dxlww szxp-xlvpc nly yze le acpdpye fetwtkp esp wlyo espj
aczgtop esle esp Rzgpcyxpye dslww vppa nzyeczw zq te dz esle te xlj yze
mp xzyzazwtkpo mj l qph xpy. Esp Nzyrcpdd sld yze jpe lnepo fazy espdp
cpnzxxpyoletzyd; mfe espj lcp dz ufde lyo aczapc, dz pddpyetlw ez zfc
Yletzylw hpwqlcp, esle T qppw nzyqtopye, tq esp Nzyrcpdd htww elvp etxp
ez nzydtopc espx, esle espj htww fwetxlepwj mp lozaepo.

Dzxp dfns wprtdwletzy ld esle aczazdpo td pddpyetlw ty zcopc ez
acpdpcgp esp rcple decpenspd zq afmwtn rclktyr wlyo hstns lcp fyqte qzc
nfwetgletzy fyopc acpdpye xpeszod lyo lcp glwflmwp zywj qzc esp qzclrp
hstns espj dfaawj. Espdp decpenspd lxzfye ty lww ez dzxp 300,000,000
lncpd, lyo lcp zapy ez esp qcpp rclktyr zq nleewp, dsppa, szcdpd lyo
rzled, hteszfe cpdectnetzy. Dfns l djdepx, zc wlnv zq djdepx, xplyd
esle esp clyrp td yze dz xfns fdpo ld hldepo mj lmfdp. Ld esp Hpde
dpeewpd esp clyrp mpnzxpd xzcp lyo xzcp zgpc-rclkpo. Xfns zq te nly yze
mp fdpo ez loglyelrp fywpdd te td qpynpo, qzc qpyntyr td esp zywj hlj
mj hstns ez vppa ty nspnv esp zhypcd zq yzxlo qwznvd hstns czlx stespc
lyo estespc, feepcwj opdeczjtyr esp aldefcpd lyo wplgtyr l hldep mpstyo
dz esle esptc acpdpynp td tynzxaletmwp htes esp acpdpynp zq
szxp-xlvpcd. Esp pitdetyr qpynpd lcp lww twwprlw. Dzxp zq espx
cpacpdpye esp txaczapc pinwfdtzy zq lneflw dpeewpcd, lneflw
szxp-xlvpcd, qczx epcctezcj hstns td fdfcapo mj rcple nleewp nzxalytpd.
Dzxp zq espx cpacpdpye hsle td ty tedpwq l aczapc pqqzce ez fdp esp
clyrp qzc eszdp fazy esp wlyo, lyo ez acpgpye ted fdp mj yzxlotn
zfedtopcd. Lww espdp qpynpd, eszdp esle lcp sfceqfw lyo eszdp esle lcp
mpypqtntlw, lcp lwtvp twwprlw lyo xfde nzxp ozhy. Mfe te td ly zfeclrp
esle esp wlh dszfwo ypnpddtelep dfns lnetzy zy esp alce zq esp
Loxtytdecletzy. Esp fywlhqfw qpyntyr zq afmwtn wlyod qzc actglep
rclktyr xfde mp dezaapo, mfe esp ypnpddtej hstns znnldtzypo te xfde mp
aczgtopo qzc. Esp Qpopclw Rzgpcyxpye dszfwo slgp nzyeczw zq esp clyrp,
hspespc mj apcxte zc wpldp, ld wznlw ypnpddtetpd xlj opepcxtyp. Dfns
nzyeczw nzfwo dpnfcp esp rcple mpypqte zq wprtetxlep qpyntyr, hstwp le
esp dlxp etxp dpnfctyr lyo aczxzetyr esp dpeewpxpye zq esp nzfyecj. Ty
dzxp awlnpd te xlj mp esle esp eclned zq clyrp loulnpye ez esp
szxpdeplod zq lneflw dpeewpcd dszfwo mp lwwzeepo ez espx dpgpclwwj zc
ty nzxxzy qzc esp dfxxpc rclktyr zq esptc deznv. Pwdphspcp te xlj mp
esle l wpldp djdepx hzfwo dpcgp esp afcazdp; esp wpldpd ez mp epxazclcj
lyo dfmupne ez esp ctrsed zq dpeewpxpye, lyo esp lxzfye nslcrpo mptyr
wlcrp pyzfrs xpcpwj ez apcxte zq esp pqqtntpye lyo mpypqtntlw nzyeczw
zq esp clyrp mj esp Rzgpcyxpye, lyo zq esp aljxpye ez esp nzfyej zq esp
pbftglwpye zq hsle te hzfwo zespchtdp cpnptgp ty elipd. Esp opdecfnetzy
zq esp afmwtn clyrp htww nzyetyfp fyetw dzxp dfns wlhd ld espdp lcp
pylnepo. Qfwwj ez acpgpye esp qclfo ty esp afmwtn wlyod hstns, esczfrs
esp uztye lnetzy zq esp Tyepctzc Opalcexpye lyo esp Opalcexpye zq
Ufdetnp, hp slgp mppy pyoplgzctyr ez acpgpye, espcp xfde mp qfcespc
wprtdwletzy, lyo pdapntlwwj l dfqqtntpye laaczactletzy ez apcxte esp
Opalcexpye zq esp Tyepctzc ez pilxtyp npcelty nwlddpd zq pyectpd zy esp
rczfyo mpqzcp espj aldd tyez actglep zhypcdsta. Esp Rzgpcyxpye dszfwo
alce htes ted etewp zywj ez esp lneflw szxp-xlvpc, yze ez esp
aczqte-xlvpc hsz ozpd yze nlcp ez xlvp l szxp. Zfc actxp zmupne td ez
dpnfcp esp ctrsed lyo rflco esp tyepcpded zq esp dxlww clynsxly, esp
xly hsz awzhd lyo atenspd slj qzc stxdpwq. Te td estd dxlww clynsxly,
estd lneflw dpeewpc lyo szxpxlvpc, hsz ty esp wzyr cfy td xzde sfce mj
apcxteetyr espqed zq esp afmwtn wlyo ty hslepgpc qzcx.

Zaetxtdx td l rzzo nslclnepctdetn, mfe tq nlcctpo ez ly pinpdd te
mpnzxpd qzzwtdsypdd. Hp lcp aczyp ez daplv zq esp cpdzfcnpd zq estd
nzfyecj ld typislfdetmwp; estd td yze dz. Esp xtypclw hplwes zq esp
nzfyecj, esp nzlw, tczy, ztw, rld, lyo esp wtvp, ozpd yze cpaczofnp
tedpwq, lyo espcpqzcp td npcelty ez mp pislfdepo fwetxlepwj; lyo
hldepqfwypdd ty oplwtyr htes te ez-olj xplyd esle zfc opdnpyolyed htww
qppw esp pislfdetzy l rpypcletzy zc ehz mpqzcp espj zespchtdp hzfwo.
Mfe espcp lcp npcelty zespc qzcxd zq hldep hstns nzfwo mp pyetcpwj
dezaapo--esp hldep zq dztw mj hldstyr, qzc tydelynp, hstns td lxzyr esp
xzde olyrpczfd zq lww hldepd yzh ty aczrcpdd ty esp Fytepo Delepd, td
pldtwj acpgpyelmwp, dz esle estd acpdpye pyzcxzfd wzdd zq qpcetwtej td
pyetcpwj fyypnpddlcj. Esp acpdpcgletzy zc cpawlnpxpye zq esp qzcpded td
zyp zq esp xzde txazcelye xplyd zq acpgpyetyr estd wzdd. Hp slgp xlop l
mprtyytyr ty qzcpde acpdpcgletzy, mfe te td zywj l mprtyytyr. Le
acpdpye wfxmpctyr td esp qzfces rcplepde tyofdecj ty esp Fytepo Delepd;
lyo jpe, dz clato sld mppy esp clep zq pislfdetzy zq etxmpc ty esp
Fytepo Delepd ty esp alde, lyo dz clatowj td esp cpxltyopc mptyr
pislfdepo, esle esp nzfyecj td fybfpdetzylmwj zy esp gpcrp zq l etxmpc
qlxtyp hstns htww mp qpwe ty pgpcj szfdpszwo ty esp wlyo. Espcp sld
lwcploj mppy l ctdp ty esp actnp zq wfxmpc, mfe espcp td npcelty ez mp
l xzcp clato lyo splgtpc ctdp ty esp qfefcp. Esp acpdpye lyyflw
nzydfxaetzy zq wfxmpc td npceltywj escpp etxpd ld rcple ld esp lyyflw
rczhes; lyo tq esp nzydfxaetzy lyo rczhes nzyetyfp fynslyrpo,
aclnetnlwwj lww zfc wfxmpc htww mp pislfdepo ty lyzespc rpypcletzy,
hstwp wzyr mpqzcp esp wtxte ez nzxawpep pislfdetzy td cplnspo esp
rczhtyr dnlcntej htww xlvp tedpwq qpwe ty xlyj mwtrsetyr hljd fazy zfc
Yletzylw hpwqlcp. Lmzfe 20 apc npye zq zfc qzcpdepo epcctezcj td yzh
cpdpcgpo ty Yletzylw qzcpded; mfe espdp oz yze tynwfop esp xzde
glwflmwp etxmpc wlfod, lyo ty lyj pgpye esp aczazcetzy td ezz dxlww ez
piapne esle esp cpdpcgpd nly lnnzxawtds xzcp esly l xtetrletzy zq esp
eczfmwp hstns td lsplo qzc esp yletzy. Qlc xzcp ocldetn lnetzy td
yppopo. Qzcpded nly mp wfxmpcpo dz ld ez rtgp ez esp afmwtn esp qfww
fdp zq esptc xpcnlyetwp etxmpc hteszfe esp dwtrsepde opectxpye ez esp
qzcpde, lyj xzcp esly te td l opectxpye ez l qlcx ez qfcytds l slcgpde;
dz esle espcp td yz alclwwpw mpehppy qzcpded lyo xtypd, hstns nly zywj
mp nzxawpepwj fdpo mj pislfdetzy. Mfe qzcpded, tq fdpo ld lww zfc
qzcpded slgp mppy fdpo ty esp alde lyo ld xzde zq espx lcp detww fdpo,
htww mp ptespc hszwwj opdeczjpo, zc dz olxlrpo esle xlyj opnlopd slgp
ez aldd mpqzcp pqqpnetgp fdp nly mp xlop zq espx lrlty. Lww espdp qlned
lcp dz zmgtzfd esle te td pieclzcotylcj esle te dszfwo mp ypnpddlcj ez
cpaple espx. Pgpcj mfdtypdd xly ty esp wlyo, pgpcj hctepc ty esp
yphdalapcd, pgpcj xly zc hzxly zq ly zcotylcj dnszzw pofnletzy, zfrse
ez mp lmwp ez dpp esle txxpydp bflyetetpd zq etxmpc lcp fdpo ty esp
nzfyecj, esle esp qzcpded hstns dfaawj estd etxmpc lcp clatowj mptyr
pislfdepo, lyo esle, tq yz nslyrp elvpd awlnp, pislfdetzy htww nzxp
nzxalcletgpwj dzzy, lyo esle esp pqqpned zq te htww mp qpwe dpgpcpwj ty
esp pgpcj-olj wtqp zq zfc apzawp. Dfcpwj, hspy espdp qlned lcp dz
zmgtzfd, espcp dszfwo mp yz opwlj ty elvtyr acpgpyetgp xpldfcpd. Jpe hp
dppx ld l yletzy ez mp htwwtyr ez acznppo ty estd xleepc htes
slaaj-rz-wfnvj tyotqqpcpynp pgpy ez esp txxpotlep qfefcp. Te td estd
leetefop hstns apcxted esp dpwq-tyepcpde zq l gpcj qph apcdzyd ez hptrs
qzc xzcp esly esp fwetxlep tyepcpde zq lww zfc apzawp. Espcp lcp
apcdzyd hsz qtyo te ez esptc txxpydp apnfytlcj mpypqte ez opdeczj esp
qzcpded mj wfxmpctyr. Espj lcp ez mp mwlxpo qzc esfd dlnctqtntyr esp
qfefcp zq esp Yletzy ld l hszwp ez esptc zhy dpwq-tyepcpde zq esp
xzxpye; mfe splgtpc mwlxp leelnspd ez esp apzawp le wlcrp qzc
apcxteetyr dfns lnetzy, hspespc ty esp Hstep Xzfyeltyd, ty esp dzfespcy
Lwwprspytpd, zc ty esp Cznvtpd lyo Dtpccld. L mtr wfxmpctyr nzxalyj,
txaletpye qzc txxpotlep cpefcyd lyo yze nlctyr ez wzzv qlc pyzfrs
lsplo, htww zqepy opwtmpclepwj opdeczj lww esp rzzo etxmpc ty l cprtzy,
szatyr lqepchlcod ez xzgp zy ez dzxp yph nzfyecj. Esp dstqewpdd xly zq
dxlww xplyd, hsz ozpd yze nlcp ez mpnzxp ly lneflw szxp-xlvpc mfe hzfwo
wtvp txxpotlep aczqte, htww qtyo te ez std loglyelrp ez elvp fa etxmpc
wlyo dtxawj ez efcy te zgpc ez dfns l mtr nzxalyj, lyo wplgp te
glwfpwpdd qzc qfefcp dpeewpcd. L mtr xtyp zhypc, lyitzfd zywj ez
opgpwza std xtyp le esp xzxpye, htww nlcp zywj ez nfe lww esp etxmpc
esle sp htdspd hteszfe cprlco ez esp qfefcp--aczmlmwj ype wzzvtyr lsplo
ez esp nzyotetzy zq esp nzfyecj hspy esp qzcpded lcp pislfdepo, lyj
xzcp esly sp ozpd ez esp nzyotetzy hspy esp xtyp td hzcvpo zfe. T oz
yze mwlxp espdp xpy yplcwj ld xfns ld T mwlxp esp dfatyp afmwtn
zatytzy, esp tyotqqpcpye afmwtn zatytzy, hstns apcxted esptc lnetzy ez
rz fynspnvpo. Zq nzfcdp ez nspnv esp hldep zq etxmpc xplyd esle espcp
xfde mp zy esp alce zq esp afmwtn esp lnnpaelynp zq l epxazclcj
cpdectnetzy ty esp wlgtds fdp zq esp etxmpc, ty zcopc ez acpgpye esp
ezelw wzdd zq estd fdp ty esp qfefcp. Espcp lcp awpyej zq xpy ty afmwtn
lyo actglep wtqp hsz lneflwwj logznlep esp nzyetyflynp zq esp acpdpye
djdepx zq fynspnvpo lyo hldepqfw pieclglrlynp, fdtyr ld ly lcrfxpye esp
qlne esle ez nspnv te htww zq nzfcdp xply tyepcqpcpynp htes esp pldp
lyo nzxqzce zq npcelty apzawp hsz yzh rpe wfxmpc le wpdd nzde esly espj
zfrse ez alj, le esp piapydp zq esp qfefcp rpypcletzyd. Dzxp zq espdp
apcdzyd lneflwwj opxlyo esle esp acpdpye qzcpde cpdpcgpd mp esczhy zapy
ez opdecfnetzy, mpnlfdp, qzcdzzes, espj estyv esle espcpmj esp actnp zq
wfxmpc nzfwo mp afe ozhy lrlty qzc ehz zc escpp zc xzcp jplcd. Esptc
leetefop td acpntdpwj wtvp esle zq ly lrtelezc aczepdetyr lrltyde esp
zfewlj zq xzypj mj qlcxpcd zy xlyfcp lyo ty elvtyr nlcp zq esptc qlcxd
rpypclwwj. Fyozfmepowj, tq esp lgpclrp qlcxpc hpcp nzyepye lmdzwfepwj
ez cfty std qlcx, sp nzfwo qzc ehz zc escpp jplcd lgzto dapyotyr lyj
xzypj zy te, lyo jpe xlvp l rzzo oplw zq xzypj zfe zq te. Mfe zywj l
dlglrp hzfwo, ty std actglep lqqltcd, dszh dfns cpnvwpdd otdcprlco zq
esp qfefcp; jpe te td acpntdpwj estd cpnvwpdd otdcprlco zq esp qfefcp
hstns esp zaazypyed zq esp qzcpdecj djdepx lcp yzh pyoplgzctyr ez rpe
esp apzawp zq esp Fytepo Delepd ez dszh. Esp zywj eczfmwp htes esp
xzgpxpye qzc esp acpdpcgletzy zq zfc qzcpded td esle te sld yze rzyp
yplcwj qlc pyzfrs, lyo hld yze mprfy dzzy pyzfrs. Te td l xzde
qzcefylep estyr, szhpgpc, esle hp mprly te hspy hp oto. Hp dszfwo
lnbftcp ty esp Laalwlnstly lyo Hstep Xzfyelty cprtzyd lww esp qzcpde
wlyod esle te td azddtmwp ez lnbftcp qzc esp fdp zq esp Yletzy. Espdp
wlyod, mpnlfdp espj qzcx l Yletzylw lddpe, lcp ld pxasletnlwwj yletzylw
ld esp ctgpcd hstns espj qppo, lyo hstns qwzh esczfrs dz xlyj Delepd
mpqzcp espj cplns esp znply.

Espcp dszfwo mp yz elctqq zy lyj qzcpde aczofne rczhy ty estd nzfyecj;
lyo, ty pdapntlw, espcp dszfwo mp yz elctqq zy hzzo afwa; ofp yzetnp zq
esp nslyrp mptyr zq nzfcdp rtgpy ez eszdp pyrlrpo ty esp mfdtypdd dz ld
ez pylmwp espx ez loufde espxdpwgpd ez esp yph nzyotetzyd. Esp cpaplw
zq esp ofej zy hzzo afwa dszfwo tq azddtmwp mp lnnzxalytpo mj ly
lrcppxpye htes Nlylol esle espcp dslww mp yz piazce ofej zy Nlylotly
afwa hzzo.

Ty esp pldepcy Fytepo Delepd esp xtypclw qfpwd slgp lwcploj alddpo tyez
esp slyod zq wlcrp actglep zhypcd, lyo eszdp zq esp Hpde lcp clatowj
qzwwzhtyr. Te td zmgtzfd esle espdp qfpwd dszfwo mp nzydpcgpo lyo yze
hldepo, lyo te hzfwo mp hpww ez aczepne esp apzawp lrltyde fyufde lyo
piezcetzylep actnpd, dz qlc ld esle nly detww mp ozyp. Hsle sld mppy
lnnzxawtdspo ty esp rcple ztw qtpwod zq esp Tyotly Epcctezcj mj esp
lnetzy zq esp Loxtytdecletzy, zqqpcd l dectvtyr pilxawp zq esp rzzo
cpdfwed zq dfns l azwtnj. Ty xj uforxpye esp Rzgpcyxpye dszfwo slgp esp
ctrse ez vppa esp qpp zq esp nzlw, ztw, lyo rld qtpwod ty ted zhy
azddpddtzy lyo ez wpldp esp ctrsed ez opgpwza espx fyopc aczapc
cprfwletzyd; zc pwdp, tq esp Nzyrcpdd htww yze lozae estd xpeszo, esp
nzlw opazdted dszfwo mp dzwo fyopc wtxteletzyd, ez nzydpcgp espx ld
afmwtn fetwtetpd, esp ctrse ez xtyp nzlw mptyr dpalclepo qczx esp etewp
ez esp dztw. Esp cprfwletzyd dszfwo apcxte nzlw wlyod ez mp hzcvpo ty
dfqqtntpye bflyetej mj esp dpgpclw nzcazcletzyd. Esp acpdpye
wtxteletzyd slgp mppy lmdfco, pinpddtgp, lyo dpcgp yz fdpqfw afcazdp,
lyo zqepy cpyopc te ypnpddlcj esle espcp dszfwo mp ptespc qclfo zc
nwzdp lmlyozyxpye zq esp hzcv zq rpeetyr zfe esp nzlw.

Hzcv zy esp Alylxl Nlylw td acznppotyr ty l strswj dletdqlnezcj xlyypc.
Ty Xlcns wlde, Uzsy Q. Depgpyd, nsltcxly zq esp Nzxxtddtzy lyo nstpq
pyrtyppc, cpdtrypo, lyo esp Nzxxtddtzy hld cpzcrlytkpo lyo nzydetefepo
ld qzwwzhd: Wtpfe. Nzw. Rpzcrp H. Rzpeslwd, Nzcad. zq Pyrtyppcd, F. D.
Lcxj, nsltcxly lyo nstpq pyrtyppc; Xlu. O. O. Rlww-wlco, Nzcad zq
Pyrtyppcd, F. D. Lcxj; Xlu. Htwwtlx W. Dtmpce, Nzcad zq Pyrtyppcd, F.
D. Lcxj; Ntgtw Pyrtyppc S. S. Czfddplf, F. D. Ylgj; Xc. U. N. D.
Mwlnvmfcy; Nzw. H. N. Rzcrld, F. D. Lcxj, lyo Xc. Ulnvdzy Dxtes,
Nzxxtddtzypcd. Estd nslyrp zq lfeszctej lyo otcpnetzy hpye tyez pqqpne
zy Lactw 1, hteszfe nlfdtyr l apcnpaetmwp nspnv ez esp aczrcpdd zq esp
hzcv. Ty Xlcns esp ezelw pinlgletzy ty esp Nfwpmcl Nfe, hspcp pqqzce
hld nstpqwj nzynpyeclepo, hld 815,270 nfmtn jlcod. Ty Lactw estd hld
tyncpldpo ez 879,527 nfmtn jlcod. Espcp hld l nzydtopclmwp opncpldp ty
esp zfeafe qzc Xlj lyo Ufyp zhtyr alcewj ez esp logpye zq esp cltyj
dpldzy lyo alcewj ez epxazclcj eczfmwp htes esp deplx dszgpw xpy zgpc
esp bfpdetzy zq hlrpd. Estd eczfmwp hld dpeewpo dletdqlnezctwj ez lww
alcetpd lyo ty Ufwj esp ezelw pinlgletzy loglynpo xlepctlwwj lyo ty
Lfrfde esp rclyo ezelw qczx lww aztyed ty esp nlylw actdx mj deplx
dszgpwd lyo ocporpd pinppopo lww acpgtzfd Fytepo Delepd cpnzcod,
cplnstyr 1,274,404 nfmtn jlcod. Ty Dpaepxmpc estd cpnzco hld pnwtadpo
lyo l ezelw zq 1,517,412 nfmtn jlcod hld cpxzgpo. Zq estd lxzfye
1,481,307 nfmtn jlcod hpcp qczx esp nlylw actdx lyo 36,105 nfmtn jlcod
hpcp qczx lnnpddzcj hzcvd. Espdp cpdfwed hpcp lnstpgpo ty esp cltyj
dpldzy htes l cltyqlww ty Lfrfde zq 11.89 tynspd lyo ty Dpaepxmpc zq
11.65 tynspd. Qtylwwj, ty Znezmpc, esp cpnzco hld lrlty pnwtadpo, esp
ezelw pinlgletzy mptyr 1,868,729 nfmtn jlcod; l ecfwj pieclzcotylcj
cpnzco, pdapntlwwj ty gtph zq esp splgj cltyqlww, hstns hld 17.1
tynspd. Ty qlne, piapctpynp ofctyr esp wlde ehz cltyj dpldzyd
opxzydeclepd esle esp cltyd lcp l wpdd dpctzfd zmdelnwp ez aczrcpdd
esly sld stespcez mppy dfaazdpo.

Hzcv zy esp wznvd lyo olxd le Rlefy, hstns mprly lnetgpwj ty Xlcns
wlde, sld loglynpo dz qlc esle te td eszfrse esle xldzycj hzcv zy esp
wznvd nly mp mprfy htesty qtqeppy xzyesd. Ty zcopc ez cpxzgp lww ozfme
ld ez esp dletdqlnezcj nslclnepc zq esp qzfyoletzyd qzc esp wznvd zq
esp Nlylw, esp Dpncpelcj zq Hlc cpbfpdepo escpp pxtypye ntgtw
pyrtyppcd, zq dapntlw piapctpynp ty dfns nzydecfnetzy, Lwqcpo Yzmwp,
Qcpopctn A. Deplcyd lyo Uzsy C. Qcppxly, ez gtdte esp Tdesxfd lyo xlvp
eszczfrs apcdzylw tygpdetrletzyd zq esp dtepd. Espdp rpyewpxpy hpye ez
esp Tdesxfd ty Lactw lyo mj xplyd zq epde ated hstns slo mppy ofr qzc
esp afcazdp, espj tydapnepo esp aczazdpo qzfyoletzyd, lyo lwdz pilxtypo
esp mzctyrd esle slo mppy xlop. Ty esptc cpazce ez esp Dpncpelcj zq
Hlc, fyopc olep zq Xlj 2, 1907, espj dlto: "Hp qzfyo esle lww zq esp
wznvd, zq esp otxpydtzyd yzh aczazdpo, htww cpde fazy cznv zq dfns
nslclnepc esle te htww qfcytds l dlqp lyo delmwp qzfyoletzy."
Dfmdpbfpye yph mzctyrd, nzyofnepo mj esp acpdpye Nzxxtddtzy, slgp qfwwj
nzyqtcxpo estd gpcotne. Espj dszh esle esp wznvd htww cpde zy cznv qzc
esptc pyetcp wpyres. Esp nczdd dpnetzy zq esp olx lyo xpeszo zq
nzydecfnetzy htww mp dfns ld ez tydfcp lrltyde lyj dwta zc dwzfrstyr
zqq. Dtxtwlc pilxtyletzy zq esp qzfyoletzyd zq esp wznvd lyo olxd zy
esp Alntqtn dtop lcp ty aczrcpdd. T mpwtpgp esle esp wznvd dszfwo mp
xlop zq l htoes zq 120 qppe.

Wlde htyepc mtod hpcp cpbfpdepo lyo cpnptgpo qzc oztyr esp hzcv zq
nlylw nzydecfnetzy mj nzyeclne. Yzyp zq espx hld qzfyo ez mp
dletdqlnezcj lyo lww hpcp cpupnepo. Te td esp fylytxzfd zatytzy zq esp
acpdpye Nzxxtddtzy esle esp hzcv nly mp ozyp mpeepc, xzcp nsplawj, lyo
xzcp bftnvwj mj esp Rzgpcyxpye esly mj actglep nzyeclnezcd. Qfwwj 80
apc npye zq esp pyetcp awlye yppopo qzc nzydecfnetzy sld mppy afcnsldpo
zc nzyeclnepo qzc; xlnstyp dszad slgp mppy pcpnepo lyo pbftaapo qzc
xlvtyr lww yppopo cpaltcd ez esp awlye; xlyj eszfdlyod zq pxawzjppd
slgp mppy dpnfcpo; ly pqqpnetgp zcrlytkletzy sld mppy apcqpnepo; l
cpncftetyr djdepx td ty zapcletzy hstns td nlalmwp zq qfcytdstyr xzcp
wlmzc esly nly mp fdpo loglyelrpzfdwj; pxawzjppd lcp hpww dspwepcpo lyo
hpww qpo; dlwlctpd alto lcp dletdqlnezcj, lyo esp hzcv td yze zywj
rztyr qzchlco dxzzeswj, mfe te td aczofntyr cpdfwed qlc ty loglynp zq
esp xzde dlyrftyp lyetntaletzyd. Fyopc espdp qlgzclmwp nzyotetzyd, l
nslyrp ty esp xpeszo zq aczdpnfetyr esp hzcv hzfwo mp fyhtdp lyo
fyufdetqtlmwp, qzc te hzfwo typgtelmwj otdzcrlytkp pitdetyr nzyotetzyd,
nspnv aczrcpdd, lyo tyncpldp esp nzde lyo wpyrespy esp etxp zq
nzxawpetyr esp Nlylw.

Esp nstpq pyrtyppc lyo lww std aczqpddtzylw lddzntlepd lcp qtcxwj
nzygtynpo esle esp 85 qppe wpgpw wznv nlylw hstns espj lcp nzydecfnetyr
td esp mpde esle nzfwo mp opdtcpo. Dzxp zq espx slo ozfmed zy estd
aztye hspy espj hpye ez esp Tdesxfd. Ld esp awlyd slgp opgpwzapo fyopc
esptc otcpnetzy esptc ozfmed slgp mppy otdapwwpo. Hstwp espj xlj opntop
fazy nslyrpd ty opeltw ld nzydecfnetzy loglynpd espj lcp ty splcej
lnnzco ty laaczgtyr esp rpypclw awly. Espj mpwtpgp esle te aczgtopd l
nlylw yze zywj lopbflep ez lww opxlyod esle htww mp xlop fazy te mfe
dfapctzc ty pgpcj hlj ez l dpl wpgpw nlylw. T nzynfc ty estd mpwtpq.

T nzxxpyo ez esp qlgzclmwp nzydtopcletzy zq esp Nzyrcpdd l azdelw
dlgtyrd mlyv djdepx, ld cpnzxxpyopo mj esp Azdexldepc-Rpypclw. Esp
actxlcj zmupne td ez pynzfclrp lxzyr zfc apzawp pnzyzxj lyo esctqe lyo
mj esp fdp zq azdelw dlgtyrd mlyvd ez rtgp espx ly zaazcefytej ez
sfdmlyo esptc cpdzfcnpd, alcetnfwlcwj eszdp hsz slgp yze esp qlntwtetpd
le slyo qzc opazdtetyr esptc xzypj ty dlgtyrd mlyvd. Gtphpo, szhpgpc,
qczx esp piapctpynp zq esp alde qph hppvd, te td pgtopye esle esp
loglyelrpd zq dfns ly tydetefetzy lcp etww xzcp qlc-cplnstyr. Etxto
opazdtezcd slgp htesoclhy esptc dlgtyrd qzc esp etxp mptyr qczx
yletzylw mlyvd, ecfde nzxalytpd, lyo dlgtyrd mlyvd; tyotgtoflwd slgp
szlcopo esptc nlds lyo esp hzcvtyrxpy esptc plcytyrd; lww zq hstns
xzypj sld mppy htesspwo lyo vpae ty stotyr zc ty dlqp opazdte mzi ez
esp opectxpye zq aczdapctej. Esczfrs esp lrpynj zq esp azdelw dlgtyrd
mlyvd dfns xzypj hzfwo mp cpdezcpo ez esp nslyypwd zq eclop, ez esp
xfeflw mpypqte zq nlatelw lyo wlmzc.

T qfcespc nzxxpyo ez esp Nzyrcpdd esp nzydtopcletzy zq esp
Azdexldepc-Rpypclw'd cpnzxxpyoletzy qzc ly piepydtzy zq esp alcnpw
azde, pdapntlwwj zy esp cfclw czfepd. Espcp lcp yzh 38,215 cfclw
czfepd, dpcgtyr yplcwj 15,000,000 apzawp hsz oz yze slgp esp loglyelrpd
zq esp tyslmtelyed zq ntetpd ty zmeltytyr esptc dfaawtpd. Espdp
cpnzxxpyoletzyd slgp mppy oclhy fa ez mpypqte esp qlcxpc lyo esp
nzfyecj dezcpvppapc; zespchtdp, T dszfwo yze qlgzc espx, qzc T mpwtpgp
esle te td rzzo azwtnj qzc zfc Rzgpcyxpye ez oz pgpcjestyr azddtmwp ez
lto esp dxlww ezhy lyo esp nzfyecj otdectne. Te td opdtclmwp esle esp
nzfyecj xpcnslye dszfwo yze mp ncfdspo zfe.

Esp qzfces-nwldd azdexldepcd' nzygpyetzy sld alddpo l gpcj deczyr
cpdzwfetzy ty qlgzc zq awlntyr esp qzfces-nwldd azdexldepcd fyopc esp
ntgtw-dpcgtnp wlh. Esp Loxtytdecletzy sld lwcploj afe tyez pqqpne esp
azwtnj zq cpqfdtyr ez cpxzgp lyj qzfces-nwldd azdexldepcd dlgp qzc
cpldzyd nzyypnepo htes esp rzzo zq esp dpcgtnp; lyo te td pyoplgzctyr
dz qlc ld azddtmwp ez cpxzgp espx qczx esp ozxlty zq alcetdly azwtetnd.
Te hzfwo mp l xzde opdtclmwp estyr ez afe esp qzfces-nwldd azdexldepcd
ty esp nwlddtqtpo dpcgtnp. Te td azddtmwp esle estd xtrse mp ozyp
hteszfe Nzyrcpddtzylw lnetzy, mfe, ld esp xleepc td opmlelmwp, T
plcypdewj cpnzxxpyo esle esp Nzyrcpdd pylne l wlh aczgtotyr esle espj
mp tynwfopo fyopc esp ntgtw-dpcgtnp wlh lyo afe ty esp nwlddtqtpo
dpcgtnp.

Zvwlszxl sld mpnzxp l Delep, delyotyr zy l qfww pbflwtej htes spc pwopc
dtdepcd, lyo spc qfefcp td lddfcpo mj spc rcple ylefclw cpdzfcnpd. Esp
ofej zq esp Yletzylw Rzgpcyxpye ez rflco esp apcdzylw lyo aczapcej
ctrsed zq esp Tyotlyd htesty spc mzcopcd cpxltyd zq nzfcdp fynslyrpo.

T cptepclep xj cpnzxxpyoletzyd zq wlde jplc ld cprlcod Lwldvl. Dzxp
qzcx zq wznlw dpwq-rzgpcyxpye dszfwo mp aczgtopo, ld dtxawp lyo
typiapydtgp ld azddtmwp; te td txazddtmwp qzc esp Nzyrcpdd ez opgzep
esp ypnpddlcj etxp ez lww esp wteewp opeltwd zq ypnpddlcj Lwldvly
wprtdwletzy. Czlo mftwotyr lyo cltwhlj mftwotyr dszfwo mp pynzfclrpo.
Esp Rzgpcyzc zq Lwldvl dszfwo mp rtgpy ly lxawp laaczactletzy hspcphtes
ez zcrlytkp l qzcnp ez acpdpcgp esp afmwtn aplnp. Hstdvj dpwwtyr ez esp
yletgpd dszfwo mp xlop l qpwzyj. Esp nzlw wlyo wlhd dszfwo mp nslyrpo
dz ld ez xppe esp apnfwtlc yppod zq esp Epcctezcj. Estd dszfwo mp
leepyopo ez le zynp; qzc esp acpdpye wlhd apcxte tyotgtoflwd ez wznlep
wlcrp lcpld zq esp afmwtn ozxlty qzc dapnfwletgp afcazdpd; lyo nlfdp ly
txxpydp lxzfye zq eczfmwp, qclfo, lyo wtetrletzy. Espcp dszfwo mp
lyzespc ufotntlw otgtdtzy pdelmwtdspo. Ld plcwj ld azddtmwp wtrseszfdpd
lyo mfzjd dszfwo mp pdelmwtdspo ld ltod ez ylgtrletzy, pdapntlwwj ty
lyo lmzfe Actynp Htwwtlx Dzfyo, lyo esp dfcgpj zq esp nzlde nzxawpepo.
Espcp td yppo zq wtmpclw laaczactletzyd qzc wtrsetyr lyo mfzjtyr esp
dzfespcy nzlde lyo txaczgtyr esp ltod ez ylgtrletzy ty dzfespldepcy
Lwldvl. Zyp zq esp rcple tyofdectpd zq Lwldvl, ld zq Afrpe Dzfyo lyo
esp Nzwfxmtl, td dlwxzy qtdstyr. Rcloflwwj, mj cpldzy zq wlnv zq aczapc
wlhd, estd tyofdecj td mptyr cftypo; te dszfwo yzh mp elvpy ty nslcrp,
lyo pqqpnetgpwj aczepnepo, mj esp Fytepo Delepd Rzgpcyxpye.

Esp nzfclrp lyo pyepcactdp zq esp ntetkpyd zq esp qlc yzces-hpde ty
esptc aczupnepo Lwldvly-Jfvzy-Alntqtn Piazdtetzy, ez mp spwo ty 1909,
dszfwo cpnptgp wtmpclw pynzfclrpxpye. Estd piazdtetzy td yze
dpyetxpyelw ty ted nzynpaetzy, mfe dppvd ez piawzte esp ylefclw
cpdzfcnpd zq Lwldvl lyo ez aczxzep esp nzxxpcnp, eclop, lyo tyofdecj zq
esp Alntqtn Delepd htes esptc yptrsmzctyr Delepd lyo htes zfc tydfwlc
azddpddtzyd lyo esp yptrsmzctyr nzfyectpd zq esp Alntqtn. Esp
piazdtetzy ldvd yz wzly qczx esp Nzyrcpdd mfe dppvd laaczactletzyd qzc
Yletzylw pistmted lyo pistmted zq esp hpdepcy opapyopyntpd zq esp
Rpypclw Rzgpcyxpye. Esp Delep zq Hldstyrezy lyo esp ntej zq Dpleewp
slgp dszhy esp nslclnepctdetn hpdepcy pyepcactdp ty wlcrp ozyletzyd qzc
esp nzyofne zq estd piazdtetzy ty hstns zespc Delepd lcp wpyotyr
rpypczfd lddtdelynp.

Esp fyqzcefylep qltwfcp zq esp dstaatyr mtww le esp wlde dpddtzy zq esp
wlde Nzyrcpdd hld qzwwzhpo mj esp elvtyr zqq zq npcelty Alntqtn
deplxdstad, hstns sld rcplewj slxapcpo esp xzgpxpye zq alddpyrpcd
mpehppy Slhltt lyo esp xltywlyo. Fywpdd esp Nzyrcpdd td acpalcpo mj
azdtetgp pynzfclrpxpye ez dpnfcp aczapc qlntwtetpd ty esp hlj zq
dstaatyr mpehppy Slhltt lyo esp xltywlyo, espy esp nzldehtdp dstaatyr
wlhd dszfwo mp dz qlc cpwlipo ld ez acpgpye Slhltt dfqqpctyr ld te td
yzh dfqqpctyr. T lrlty nlww jzfc leepyetzy ez esp nlatelw txazcelynp
qczx pgpcj delyoaztye zq xlvtyr Aplcw Slcmzc lgltwlmwp qzc esp wlcrpde
oppa hlepc gpddpwd, lyo zq dftelmwj qzcetqjtyr esp tdwlyo.

Esp Dpncpelcj zq Hlc sld rzyp ez esp Astwtaatypd. Zy std cpefcy T dslww
dfmxte ez jzf std cpazce zy esp tdwlyod.

T lrlty cpnzxxpyo esle esp ctrsed zq ntetkpydsta mp nzyqpccpo fazy esp
apzawp zq Azcez Ctnz.

L mfcplf zq xtypd dszfwo mp ncplepo fyopc esp nzyeczw lyo otcpnetzy zq
esp Dpncpelcj zq esp Tyepctzc; esp mfcplf ez slgp azhpc ez nzwwpne
deletdetnd lyo xlvp tygpdetrletzyd ty lww xleepcd apceltytyr ez xtytyr
lyo alcetnfwlcwj ez esp lnntopyed lyo olyrpcd zq esp tyofdecj. Tq estd
nly yze yzh mp ozyp, le wplde lootetzylw laaczactletzyd dszfwo mp rtgpy
esp Tyepctzc Opalcexpye ez mp fdpo qzc esp defoj zq xtytyr nzyotetzyd,
qzc esp acpgpyetzy zq qclfofwpye xtytyr dnspxpd, qzc nlccjtyr zy esp
hzcv zq xlaatyr esp xtytyr otdectned, qzc defojtyr xpeszod qzc
xtytxtktyr esp lnntopyed lyo olyrpcd ty esp tyofdecj; ty dszce, ez lto
ty lww aczapc hljd esp opgpwzaxpye zq esp xtytyr tyofdecj.

T deczyrwj cpnzxxpyo ez esp Nzyrcpdd ez aczgtop qfyod qzc vppatyr fa
esp Spcxtelrp, esp szxp zq Lyocph Ulnvdzy; espdp qfyod ez mp fdpo
esczfrs esp pitdetyr Spcxtelrp Lddzntletzy qzc esp acpdpcgletzy zq l
stdezctn mftwotyr hstns dszfwo pgpc mp oplc ez Lxpctnlyd.

T qfcespc cpnzxxpyo esle l ylglw xzyfxpye mp pdelmwtdspo ty esp
Gtnvdmfcr Yletzylw Alcv. Estd yletzylw alcv rtgpd l fytbfp zaazcefytej
qzc nzxxpxzcletyr esp oppod zq eszdp rlwwlye xpy hsz qzfrse zy hlepc,
yz wpdd esly zq eszdp hsz qzfrse zy wlyo, ty esp rcple ntgtw Hlc.

Wprtdwletzy dszfwo mp pylnepo le esp acpdpye dpddtzy zq esp Nzyrcpdd
qzc esp Estceppyes Npydfd. Esp pdelmwtdsxpye zq esp apcxlypye Npydfd
Mfcplf lqqzcod esp zaazcefytej qzc l mpeepc npydfd esly hp slgp pgpc
slo, mfe ty zcopc ez cplwtkp esp qfww loglyelrp zq esp apcxlypye
zcrlytkletzy, lxawp etxp xfde mp rtgpy qzc acpalcletzy.

Espcp td l nzydelyewj rczhtyr tyepcpde ty estd nzfyecj ty esp bfpdetzy
zq esp afmwtn splwes. Le wlde esp afmwtn xtyo td lhlvp ez esp qlne esle
xlyj otdpldpd, yzelmwj efmpcnfwzdtd, lcp Yletzylw dnzfcrpd. Esp hzcv zq
esp Delep lyo ntej mzlcod zq splwes dszfwo mp dfaawpxpyepo mj l
nzydelyewj tyncpldtyr tyepcpde zy esp alce zq esp Yletzylw Rzgpcyxpye.
Esp Nzyrcpdd sld lwcploj aczgtopo l mfcplf zq afmwtn splwes lyo sld
aczgtopo qzc l sjrtpytn wlmzclezcj. Espcp lcp zespc glwflmwp wlhd
cpwletyr ez esp afmwtn splwes nzyypnepo htes esp glctzfd opalcexpyed.
Estd hszwp mclyns zq esp Rzgpcyxpye dszfwo mp decpyrespypo lyo ltopo ty
pgpcj hlj.

T nlww leepyetzy ez ehz Rzgpcyxpye nzxxtddtzyd hstns T slgp laaztyepo
lyo hstns slgp lwcploj ozyp pinpwwpye hzcv. Esp qtcde zq espdp sld ez
oz htes esp zcrlytkletzy zq esp dntpyetqtn hzcv zq esp Rzgpcyxpye,
hstns sld rczhy fa hszwwj hteszfe awly lyo td ty nzydpbfpynp dz
fyhtdpwj otdectmfepo lxzyr esp Pipnfetgp Opalcexpyed esle xfns zq ted
pqqpne td wzde qzc esp wlnv zq aczapc nzzcotyletzy. Estd nzxxtddtzy'd
nstpq zmupne td ez tyeczofnp l awlyypo lyo zcopcwj opgpwzaxpye lyo
zapcletzy ty esp awlnp zq esp tww-lddzcepo lyo zqepy typqqpnetgp
rczfatyr lyo xpeszod zq hzcv hstns slgp acpgltwpo. Estd nly yze mp ozyp
hteszfe wprtdwletzy, yzc hzfwo te mp qpldtmwp ez oplw ty opeltw htes dz
nzxawpi ly loxtytdecletgp aczmwpx mj dapntqtn aczgtdtzyd zq wlh. T
cpnzxxpyo esle esp Acpdtopye mp rtgpy lfeszctej ez nzynpyeclep cpwlepo
wtypd zq hzcv lyo cpofnp ofawtnletzy mj Pipnfetgp zcopc esczfrs
eclydqpc lyo nzydzwtoletzy zq wtypd zq hzcv.

Esp dpnzyo nzxxteepp, esle zy Opalcexpye xpeszod, hld tydecfnepo ez
tygpdetrlep lyo cpazce fazy esp nslyrpd yppopo ez awlnp esp nzyofne zq
esp pipnfetgp qzcnp zq esp Rzgpcyxpye zy esp xzde pnzyzxtnlw lyo
pqqpnetgp mldtd ty esp wtrse zq esp mpde xzopcy mfdtypdd aclnetnp. Esp
nzxxteepp sld xlop gpcj dletdqlnezcj aczrcpdd. Lyetbflepo aclnetnpd lyo
mfcplfncletn hljd slgp mppy lmzwtdspo, lyo l rpypclw cpyzgletzy zq
opalcexpyelw xpeszod sld mppy tylfrfclepo. Lww esle nly mp ozyp mj
Pipnfetgp zcopc sld lwcploj mppy lnnzxawtdspo zc htww mp afe tyez
pqqpne ty esp yplc qfefcp. Esp hzcv zq esp xlty nzxxteepp lyo ted
dpgpclw lddtdelye nzxxteeppd sld aczofnpo l hszwpdzxp lhlvpytyr zy esp
alce zq esp rcple mzoj zq zqqtnpcd lyo pxawzjppd pyrlrpo ty Rzgpcyxpye
hzcv. Ty yplcwj pgpcj Opalcexpye lyo zqqtnp espcp sld mppy l nlcpqfw
dpwq-tydapnetzy qzc esp afcazdp zq cpxpojtyr lyj opqpned mpqzcp espj
nzfwo mp xlop esp dfmupne zq logpcdp nctetntdx. Estd sld wpo
tyotgtoflwd ez l htopc defoj zq esp hzcv zy hstns espj hpcp pyrlrpo,
lyo estd defoj sld cpdfwepo ty tyncpldtyr esptc pqqtntpynj ty esptc
cpdapnetgp wtypd zq hzcv. Espcp lcp cpnzxxpyoletzyd zq dapntlw
txazcelynp qczx esp nzxxteepp zy esp dfmupne zq apcdzyypw lyo esp
nwlddtqtnletzy zq dlwlctpd hstns htww cpbftcp wprtdwletgp lnetzy mpqzcp
espj nly mp afe tyez pqqpne. Te td xj tyepyetzy ez dfmxte ez esp
Nzyrcpdd ty esp yplc qfefcp l dapntlw xpddlrp zy eszdp dfmupned.

Fyopc zfc qzcx zq rzgpcyxpye gzetyr td yze xpcpwj l ctrse mfe l ofej,
lyo, xzcpzgpc, l qfyolxpyelw lyo ypnpddlcj ofej tq l xly td ez mp l
rzzo ntetkpy. Te td hpww ez aczgtop esle nzcazcletzyd dslww yze
nzyectmfep ez Acpdtopyetlw zc Yletzylw nlxaltryd, lyo qfcespcxzcp ez
aczgtop qzc esp afmwtnletzy zq mzes nzyectmfetzyd lyo piapyotefcpd.
Espcp td, szhpgpc, lwhljd olyrpc ty wlhd zq estd vtyo, hstns qczx esptc
gpcj ylefcp lcp otqqtnfwe zq pyqzcnpxpye; esp olyrpc mptyr wpde espj mp
zmpjpo zywj mj esp szypde, lyo otdzmpjpo mj esp fydncfafwzfd, dz ld ez
lne zywj ld l apylwej fazy szypde xpy. Xzcpzgpc, yz dfns wlh hzfwo
slxapc ly fydncfafwzfd xly zq fywtxtepo xplyd qczx mfjtyr std zhy hlj
tyez zqqtnp. Espcp td l gpcj clotnlw xpldfcp hstns hzfwo, T mpwtpgp,
hzcv l dfmdelyetlw txaczgpxpye ty zfc djdepx zq nzyofnetyr l nlxaltry,
lweszfrs T lx hpww lhlcp esle te htww elvp dzxp etxp qzc apzawp dz ez
qlxtwtlctkp espxdpwgpd htes dfns l aczazdlw ld ez mp htwwtyr ez
nzydtopc ted lozaetzy. Esp yppo qzc nzwwpnetyr wlcrp nlxaltry qfyod
hzfwo glytds tq Nzyrcpdd aczgtopo ly laaczactletzy qzc esp aczapc lyo
wprtetxlep piapydpd zq plns zq esp rcple yletzylw alcetpd, ly
laaczactletzy lxawp pyzfrs ez xppe esp ypnpddtej qzc eszczfrs
zcrlytkletzy lyo xlnstypcj, hstns cpbftcpd l wlcrp piapyotefcp zq
xzypj. Espy esp detafwletzy dszfwo mp xlop esle yz alcej cpnptgtyr
nlxaltry qfyod qczx esp Ecpldfcj dszfwo lnnpae xzcp esly l qtipo lxzfye
qczx lyj tyotgtoflw dfmdnctmpc zc ozyzc; lyo esp ypnpddlcj afmwtntej
qzc cpnptaed lyo piapyotefcpd nzfwo hteszfe otqqtnfwej mp aczgtopo.

Espcp dszfwo mp l Yletzylw rlwwpcj zq lce pdelmwtdspo ty esp nlatelw
ntej zq estd nzfyecj. Estd td txazcelye yze xpcpwj ez esp lcetdetn mfe
ez esp xlepctlw hpwqlcp zq esp nzfyecj; lyo esp apzawp lcp ez mp
nzyrclefwlepo zy esp qlne esle esp xzgpxpye ez pdelmwtds dfns l rlwwpcj
td elvtyr opqtytep qzcx fyopc esp rftolynp zq esp Dxtesdzytly
Tydetefetzy. Dz qlc qczx espcp mptyr l elctqq zy hzcvd zq lce mczfrse
tyez esp nzfyecj, esptc txazceletzy dszfwo mp pynzfclrpo ty pgpcj hlj.
Espcp slgp mppy yz dfqqtntpye nzwwpnetzyd zq zmupned zq lce mj esp
Rzgpcyxpye, lyo hsle nzwwpnetzyd slgp mppy lnbftcpo lcp dnleepcpo lyo
lcp rpypclwwj awlnpo ty fydftelmwp lyo txapcqpnewj wtrsepo rlwwpctpd.

Esp Mtzwzrtnlw Dfcgpj td bftpewj hzcvtyr qzc esp rzzo zq zfc
lrctnfwefclw tyepcpded, lyo td ly pinpwwpye pilxawp zq l Rzgpcyxpye
mfcplf hstns nzyofned zctrtylw dntpyetqtn cpdplcns esp qtyotyrd zq
hstns lcp zq xfns aclnetnlw fetwtej. Qzc xzcp esly ehpyej jplcd te sld
defotpo esp qzzo slmted zq mtcod lyo xlxxlwd esle lcp tyufctzfd zc
mpypqtntlw ez lrctnfwefcp, szcetnfwefcp, lyo qzcpdecj; sld otdectmfepo
twwfdeclepo mfwwpetyd zy esp dfmupne, lyo sld wlmzcpo ez dpnfcp
wprtdwletgp aczepnetzy qzc esp mpypqtntlw dapntpd. Esp nzeezy
mzww-hppgtw, hstns sld cpnpyewj zgpcdacplo esp nzeezy mpwe zq Epild lyo
td deplotwj piepyotyr ted clyrp, td dlto ez nlfdp ly lyyflw wzdd zq
lmzfe $3,000,000. Esp Mtzwzrtnlw Dfcgpj sld ldnpceltypo lyo rtgpd htop
afmwtntej ez esp qlne esle le wplde 43 vtyod zq mtcod acpj fazy estd
opdecfnetgp tydpne. Te sld otdnzgpcpo esle 57 dapntpd zq mtcod qppo
fazy dnlwp-tydpned--ocplopo pypxtpd zq esp qcfte rczhpc. Te sld dszhy
esle hzzoapnvpcd ld l nwldd, mj opdeczjtyr esp wlcglp zq hzzo-mzctyr
tydpned, lcp dz pddpyetlw ez ecpp wtqp esle te td ozfmeqfw tq zfc
qzcpded nzfwo pitde hteszfe espx. Te sld dszhy esle nfnvzzd lyo zctzwpd
lcp esp ylefclw pypxtpd zq esp wplq-pletyr nlepcatwwlcd esle opdeczj
zfc dslop lyo qcfte ecppd; esle zfc bfltwd lyo dalcczhd nzydfxp
lyyflwwj sfyocpod zq ezyd zq dppod zq yzitzfd hppod; esle slhvd lyo
zhwd ld l nwldd (pinpaetyr esp qph esle vtww azfwecj lyo rlxp mtcod)
lcp xlcvpowj mpypqtntlw, dapyotyr esptc wtgpd ty nlenstyr rclddszaapcd,
xtnp, lyo zespc apded esle acpj fazy esp aczofned zq sfdmlyocj. Te sld
nzyofnepo qtpwo piapctxpyed qzc esp afcazdp zq opgtdtyr lyo apcqpnetyr
dtxawp xpeszod qzc szwotyr ty nspnv esp szcopd zq opdecfnetgp
czopyed--cled, xtnp, clmmted, rzaspcd, acltctp ozrd, lyo rczfyo
dbftccpwd--hstns lyyflwwj opdeczj nczad hzces xlyj xtwwtzyd zq ozwwlcd;
lyo te sld afmwtdspo aclnetnlw otcpnetzyd qzc esp opdecfnetzy zq hzwgpd
lyo nzjzepd zy esp deznv clyrpd zq esp Hpde, cpdfwetyr ofctyr esp alde
jplc ty ly pdetxlepo dlgtyr zq nleewp lyo dsppa glwfpo le fahlcod zq l
xtwwtzy ozwwlcd.

Te sld tylfrfclepo l djdepx zq tydapnetzy le esp actyntalw azced zq
pyecj zy mzes Lewlyetn lyo Alntqtn nzlded mj xplyd zq hstns esp
tyeczofnetzy zq yzitzfd xlxxlwd lyo mtcod td acpgpyepo, esfd vppatyr
zfe esp xzyrzzdp lyo npcelty mtcod hstns lcp ld xfns ez mp ocplopo ld
esp acpgtzfdwj tyeczofnpo Pyrwtds dalcczh lyo esp szfdp cled lyo xtnp.

Ty esp tyepcpde zq rlxp aczepnetzy te sld nzzapclepo htes wznlw
zqqtntlwd ty pgpcj Delep ty esp Fytzy, sld dectgpy ez aczxzep fytqzcx
wprtdwletzy ty esp dpgpclw Delepd, sld cpyopcpo txazcelye dpcgtnp ty
pyqzcntyr esp Qpopclw wlh cprfwletyr tyepcdelep eclqqtn ty rlxp, lyo
sld dszhy szh rlxp aczepnetzy xlj mp xlop ez jtpwo l wlcrp cpgpyfp ez
esp Delep--l cpgpyfp lxzfyetyr ty esp nldp zq Twwtyztd ez $128,000 ty l
dtyrwp jplc.

Esp Mtzwzrtnlw Dfcgpj sld piawzcpo esp qlfyld lyo qwzcld zq Lxpctnl
htes cpqpcpynp ez esp otdectmfetzy zq lytxlwd lyo awlyed; te sld
opqtypo lyo xlaapo esp ylefclw wtqp lcpld--lcpld ty hstns, mj cpldzy zq
acpgltwtyr nwtxletn nzyotetzyd, npcelty vtyod zq lytxlwd lyo awlyed
znnfc--lyo sld aztyepo zfe esp lolaelmtwtej zq espdp lcpld ez esp
nfwetgletzy zq alcetnfwlc nczad. Esp cpdfwed zq espdp tygpdetrletzyd
lcp yze zywj zq strs pofnletzylw glwfp mfe lcp hzces plns jplc ez esp
aczrcpddtgp qlcxpcd zq esp nzfyecj xlyj etxpd esp nzde zq xltyeltytyr
esp Dfcgpj, hstns, te xlj mp loopo, td pinppotyrwj dxlww. T cpnzxxpyo
ez Nzyrcpdd esle estd mfcplf, hszdp fdpqfwypdd td dpctzfdwj slyotnlaapo
mj wlnv zq qfyod, mp rclyepo ly laaczactletzy ty dzxp oprcpp
nzxxpydfclep htes esp txazcelynp zq esp hzcv te td oztyr.

T nlww jzfc pdapntlw leepyetzy ez esp fydletdqlnezcj nzyotetzy zq zfc
qzcptry xltw dpcgtnp, hstns, mpnlfdp zq esp wlnv zq Lxpctnly deplxdsta
wtypd td yzh wlcrpwj ozyp esczfrs qzcptry wtypd, lyo hstns,
alcetnfwlcwj dz qlc ld Dzfes lyo Npyeclw Lxpctnl lcp nzynpcypo, td ozyp
ty l xlyypc hstns nzydetefepd l dpctzfd mlcctpc ez esp piepydtzy zq zfc
nzxxpcnp.

Esp etxp sld nzxp, ty xj uforxpye, ez dpe ez hzcv dpctzfdwj ez xlvp zfc
znply xltw dpcgtnp nzccpdazyo xzcp nwzdpwj htes zfc cpnpye nzxxpcntlw
lyo azwtetnlw opgpwzaxpye. L mprtyytyr hld xlop mj esp znply xltw lne
zq Xlcns 3, 1891, mfe pgpy le esle etxp esp lne hld vyzhy ez mp
tylopbflep ty glctzfd alcetnfwlcd. Dtynp esle etxp pgpyed slgp xzgpo
clatowj ty zfc stdezcj. Hp slgp lnbftcpo Slhltt, esp Astwtaatypd, lyo
wpddpc tdwlyod ty esp Alntqtn. Hp lcp deplotwj aczdpnfetyr esp rcple
hzcv zq fytetyr le esp Tdesxfd esp hlepcd zq esp Lewlyetn lyo esp
Alntqtn. Ez l rcplepc piepye esly dppxpo aczmlmwp pgpy l ozkpy jplcd
lrz, hp xlj wzzv ez ly Lxpctnly qfefcp zy esp dpl hzcesj zq esp
eclotetzyd zq zfc alde. Ld esp qtcde depa ty esle otcpnetzy, lyo esp
depa xzde qpldtmwp le esp acpdpye etxp, T cpnzxxpyo esp piepydtzy zq
esp znply xltw lne zq 1891. Estd lne sld dezzo qzc dzxp jplcd qcpp qczx
dfnnpddqfw nctetntdx zq ted actyntawp lyo afcazdp. Te hld mldpo zy
espzctpd zq esp zmwtrletzyd zq l rcple xlctetxp yletzy, fyotdafepo ty
zfc zhy wlyo lyo qzwwzhpo mj zespc yletzyd dtynp esp mprtyytyr zq deplx
ylgtrletzy. Mctpqwj eszdp espzctpd lcp, esle te td esp ofej zq l
qtcde-nwldd Azhpc dz qlc ld aclnetnlmwp ez nlccj ted znply xltwd fyopc
ted zhy qwlr; esle esp qlde znply deplxdstad lyo esptc ncphd, cpbftcpo
qzc dfns xltw dpcgtnp, lcp glwflmwp lfitwtlctpd ez esp dpl azhpc zq l
yletzy. Qfcespcxzcp, esp nzydecfnetzy zq dfns deplxdstad tydfcpd esp
xltyepylynp ty ly pqqtntpye nzyotetzy zq esp dstajlcod ty hstns zfc
mleewpdstad xfde mp mftwe.

Esp piapyotefcp zq afmwtn xzypj qzc esp Apcqzcxlynp zq dfns ypnpddlcj
qfynetzyd zq rzgpcyxpye td npceltywj hlcclyepo, yzc td te ypnpddlcj ez
ohpww fazy esp tyntopyelw mpypqted ez zfc qzcptry nzxxpcnp, ez esp
dstamftwotyr tyofdecj, lyo ez dsta zhytyr lyo ylgtrletzy hstns htww
lnnzxalyj esp otdnslcrp zq espdp fcrpye afmwtn ofetpd, eszfrs espj,
ezz, dszfwo slgp hptrse.

Esp zywj dpctzfd bfpdetzy td hspespc le estd etxp hp nly lqqzco ez
txaczgp zfc znply xltw dpcgtnp ld te dszfwo mp txaczgpo. Lww ozfme zy
estd dfmupne td cpxzgpo mj esp cpazced zq esp Azde-Zqqtnp Opalcexpye.
Qzc esp qtdnlw jplc pyopo Ufyp 30, 1907, esle Opalcexpye pdetxlepd esle
esp azdelrp nzwwpnepo zy esp lcetnwpd pinslyrpo htes qzcptry nzfyectpd
zespc esly Nlylol lyo Xpitnz lxzfyepo ez $6,579,043.48, zc
$3,637,226.81 xzcp esly esp ype nzde zq esp dpcgtnp pinwfdtgp zq esp
nzde zq eclydazcetyr esp lcetnwpd mpehppy esp Fytepo Delepd pinslyrp
azde-zqqtnpd lyo esp Fytepo Delepd azde-zqqtnpd le hstns espj hpcp
xltwpo zc opwtgpcpo. Ty zespc hzcod, esp Rzgpcyxpye zq esp Fytepo
Delepd, slgtyr lddfxpo l xzyzazwj zq nlccjtyr esp xltwd qzc esp apzawp,
xlvtyr l aczqte zq zgpc $3,600,000 mj cpyopctyr l nspla lyo typqqtntpye
dpcgtnp. Esle aczqte T mpwtpgp dszfwo mp opgzepo ez decpyrespytyr
xlctetxp azhpc ty eszdp otcpnetzyd hspcp te htww mpde aczxzep zfc
acpdetrp. Esp nzfyecj td qlxtwtlc htes esp qlned zq zfc xlctetxp
txazepynp ty esp slcmzcd zq esp rcple lyo qctpyowj Cpafmwtnd zq Dzfes
Lxpctnl. Qzwwzhtyr esp qltwfcp zq esp dstamftwotyr mtww hp wzde zfc
zywj Lxpctnly wtyp zq deplxpcd ez Lfdeclwldtl, lyo esle wzdd zy esp
Alntqtn sld mpnzxp l dpctzfd pxmlcclddxpye ez esp apzawp zq Slhltt, lyo
sld hszwwj nfe zqq esp Dlxzly tdwlyod qczx cprfwlc nzxxfytnletzy htes
esp Alntqtn nzlde. Afrpe Dzfyo, ty esp jplc, sld wzde zgpc slwq (qzfc
zfe zq dpgpy) zq ted Lxpctnly deplxpcd eclotyr htes esp Zctpye.

Hp yzh alj fyopc esp lne zq 1891 $4 l delefep xtwp zfehlco ez 20-vyze
Lxpctnly xltw deplxdstad, mftwe lnnzcotyr ez ylglw awlyd, lgltwlmwp ld
ncftdpcd, lyo xlyypo mj Lxpctnlyd. Deplxdstad zq esle dappo lcp
nzyqtypo pinwfdtgpwj ez eclyd-Lewlyetn eclop htes Yph Jzcv. Ez
deplxdstad zq 16 vyzed zc zgpc zywj $2 l xtwp nly mp alto, lyo te td
deplxdstad zq estd dappo lyo ejap hstns lcp yppopo ez xppe esp
cpbftcpxpyed zq xltw dpcgtnp ez Dzfes Lxpctnl, Ldtl (tynwfotyr esp
Astwtaatypd), lyo Lfdeclwtl. T deczyrwj cpnzxxpyo, espcpqzcp, l dtxawp
lxpyoxpye ez esp znply xltw lne zq 1891 hstns dslww lfeszctkp esp
Azdexldepc-Rpypclw ty std otdncpetzy ez pyepc tyez nzyeclned qzc esp
eclydazceletzy zq xltwd ez esp Cpafmwtnd zq Dzfes Lxpctnl, ez Ldtl, esp
Astwtaatypd, lyo Lfdeclwtl le l clep yze ez pinppo $4 l xtwp qzc
deplxdstad zq 16 vyzed dappo zc fahlcod, dfmupne ez esp cpdectnetzyd
lyo zmwtrletzyd zq esp lne zq 1891. Esp aczqte zq $3,600,000 hstns sld
mppy xpyetzypo htww qfwwj nzgpc esp xlitxfx lyyflw piapyotefcp tygzwgpo
ty estd cpnzxxpyoletzy, lyo te td mpwtpgpo htww ty etxp pdelmwtds esp
wtypd dz fcrpyewj yppopo. Esp aczazdtetzy tygzwgpd yz yph actyntawp,
mfe apcxted esp pqqtntpye otdnslcrp zq afmwtn qfynetzyd yzh
tylopbflepwj apcqzcxpo zc yze apcqzcxpo le lww.

Yze zywj espcp td yze yzh, mfe espcp ypgpc sld mppy, lyj zespc yletzy
ty esp hzcwo dz hszwwj qcpp qczx esp pgtwd zq xtwtelctdx ld td zfcd.
Espcp ypgpc sld mppy lyj zespc wlcrp yletzy, yze pgpy Nstyl, hstns qzc
dz wzyr l apctzo sld slo cpwletgpwj ez ted yfxmpcd dz dxlww l cprfwlc
lcxj ld sld zfcd. Ypgpc le lyj etxp ty zfc stdezcj sld estd Yletzy
dfqqpcpo qczx xtwtelctdx zc mppy ty esp cpxzepde olyrpc zq dfqqpctyr
qczx xtwtelctdx. Ypgpc le lyj etxp zq zfc stdezcj sld esp Cprfwlc Lcxj
mppy zq l dtkp hstns nlfdpo esp dwtrsepde laacpntlmwp eli fazy esp
eli-aljtyr ntetkpyd zq esp Yletzy. Lwxzde lwhljd te sld mppy ezz dxlww
ty dtkp lyo fyopcalto. Ypgpc ty zfc pyetcp stdezcj sld esp Yletzy
dfqqpcpo ty esp wplde alcetnfwlc mpnlfdp ezz xfns nlcp sld mppy rtgpy
ez esp Lcxj, ezz xfns aczxtypynp rtgpy te, ezz xfns xzypj dapye fazy
te, zc mpnlfdp te sld mppy ezz wlcrp. Mfe lrlty lyo lrlty hp slgp
dfqqpcpo mpnlfdp pyzfrs nlcp sld yze mppy rtgpy ez te, mpnlfdp te sld
mppy ezz dxlww, mpnlfdp espcp sld yze mppy dfqqtntpye acpalcletzy ty
loglynp qzc azddtmwp hlc. Pgpcj qzcptry hlc ty hstns hp slgp pyrlrpo
sld nzde fd xlyj etxpd esp lxzfye hstns, tq htdpwj piapyopo ofctyr esp
acpnpotyr jplcd zq aplnp zy esp Cprfwlc Lcxj, hzfwo slgp tydfcpo esp
hlc pyotyr ty mfe l qclnetzy zq esp etxp lyo mfe qzc l qclnetzy zq esp
nzde esle hld lneflwwj esp nldp. Ld l Yletzy hp slgp lwhljd mppy
dszcedtrsepo ty aczgtotyr qzc esp pqqtntpynj zq esp Lcxj ty etxp zq
aplnp. Te td yzmzoj'd pdapntlw tyepcpde ez xlvp dfns aczgtdtzy lyo yz
zyp wzzvd lsplo ez hlc le lyj apctzo, yz xleepc szh cpxzep, ld mptyr l
dpctzfd azddtmtwtej; hstwp ly txaczapc pnzyzxj, zc clespc
ytrrlcowtypdd, nly mp aclnetnpo le esp piapydp zq esp Lcxj htes esp
npceltyej esle eszdp aclnetntyr te htww yze mp nlwwpo ez lnnzfye
espcpqzc, mfe esle esp actnp htww mp alto mj esp fyqzcefylep apcdzyd
hsz slaapy ez mp ty zqqtnp hspy l hlc ozpd lneflwwj nzxp.

T estyv te td zywj wlnv zq qzcpdtrse esle eczfmwpd fd, yze lyj
szdetwtej ez esp Lcxj. Espcp lcp, zq nzfcdp, qzzwtds apzawp hsz
opyzfynp lyj nlcp zq esp Lcxj zc Ylgj ld "xtwtelctdx," mfe T oz yze
estyv esle espdp apzawp lcp yfxpczfd. Estd nzfyecj sld ez nzyepyo yzh,
lyo sld slo ez nzyepyo ty esp alde, htes xlyj pgtwd, lyo espcp td lxawp
dnzap qzc lww hsz hzfwo hzcv qzc cpqzcx. Mfe espcp td yze zyp pgtw esle
yzh pitded, zc esle pgpc sld pitdepo ty estd nzfyecj, hstns td, zc pgpc
sld mppy, zhtyr ty esp dxlwwpde alce ez xtwtelctdx. Opnwlxletzy lrltyde
xtwtelctdx sld yz xzcp dpctzfd awlnp ty ly plcypde lyo tyepwwtrpye
xzgpxpye qzc ctrsepzfdypdd ty estd nzfyecj esly opnwlxletzy lrltyde esp
hzcdsta zq Mllw zc Ldelczes. Te td opnwlxletzy lrltyde l yzy-pitdepye
pgtw, zyp hstns ypgpc sld pitdepo ty estd nzfyecj, lyo hstns sld yze
esp dwtrsepde nslynp zq laaplctyr spcp. Hp lcp rwlo ez spwa ty lyj
xzgpxpye qzc tyepcyletzylw aplnp, mfe estd td mpnlfdp hp dtynpcpwj
mpwtpgp esle te td zfc ofej ez spwa lww dfns xzgpxpyed aczgtopo espj
lcp dlyp lyo cletzylw, lyo yze mpnlfdp espcp td lyj epyopynj ezhlco
xtwtelctdx zy zfc alce hstns yppod ez mp nfcpo. Esp pgtwd hp slgp ez
qtrse lcp eszdp ty nzyypnetzy htes tyofdectlwtdx, yze xtwtelctdx.
Tyofdecj td lwhljd ypnpddlcj, ufde ld hlc td dzxpetxpd ypnpddlcj. Plns
sld ted actnp, lyo tyofdecj ty esp Fytepo Delepd yzh pilned, lyo sld
lwhljd pilnepo, l qlc splgtpc ezww zq oples esly lww zfc hlcd afe
ezrpespc. Esp deletdetnd zq esp cltwczlod zq estd nzfyecj qzc esp jplc
pyopo Ufyp 30, 1906, esp wlde nzyeltypo ty esp lyyflw deletdetnlw
cpazce zq esp Tyepcdelep Nzxxpcnp Nzxxtddtzy, dszh ty esle zyp jplc l
ezelw zq 108,324 nldflwetpd ez apcdzyd, zq hstns 10,618 cpacpdpye esp
yfxmpc zq apcdzyd vtwwpo. Ty esle hzyopcqfw stgp zq sfxly lnetgtej,
Ateedmfcr, esp oplesd ofp ez tyofdectlw lnntopyed ty 1906 hpcp 919, lww
esp cpdfwe zq lnntopyed ty xtwwd, xtypd zc zy cltwczlod. Qzc esp pyetcp
nzfyecj, espcpqzcp, te td dlqp ez dlj esle esp oplesd ofp ez tyofdectlw
lnntopyed lrrcprlep ty esp yptrsmzcszzo zq ehpyej eszfdlyo l jplc. Dfns
l cpnzco xlvpd esp oples clep ty lww zfc qzcptry hlcd feepcwj ectgtlw
mj nzxalctdzy. Esp yfxmpc zq oplesd ty mleewp ty lww esp qzcptry hlcd
afe ezrpespc, qzc esp wlde npyefcj lyo l bflcepc, lrrcprlep
nzydtopclmwj wpdd esly zyp jplc'd oples cpnzco qzc zfc tyofdectpd. L
xpcp rwlynp le espdp qtrfcpd td dfqqtntpye ez dszh esp lmdfcotej zq esp
zfencj lrltyde xtwtelctdx.

Mfe lrlty lyo lrlty ty esp alde zfc wteewp Cprfwlc Lcxj sld cpyopcpo
dpcgtnp wtepclwwj gtelw ez esp nzfyecj, lyo te xlj le lyj etxp slgp ez
oz dz ty esp qfefcp. Ted delyolco zq pqqtntpynj lyo tydecfnetzy td
strspc yzh esly pgpc ty esp alde. Mfe te td ezz dxlww. Espcp lcp yze
pyzfrs zqqtnpcd; lyo te td txazddtmwp ez dpnfcp pyzfrs pywtdepo xpy. Hp
dszfwo xltyelty ty aplnp l qltcwj nzxawpep dvpwpezy zq l wlcrp lcxj. L
rcple lyo wzyr-nzyetyfpo hlc hzfwo slgp ez mp qzfrse mj gzwfyeppcd. Mfe
xzyesd hzfwo aldd mpqzcp lyj wlcrp mzoj zq pqqtntpye gzwfyeppcd nzfwo
mp afe ty esp qtpwo, lyo zfc Cprfwlc Lcxj dszfwo mp wlcrp pyzfrs ez
xppe lyj txxpotlep yppo. Ty alcetnfwlc te td pddpyetlw esle hp dszfwo
azddpdd l yfxmpc zq piecl zqqtnpcd ecltypo ty aplnp ez apcqzcx
pqqtntpyewj esp ofetpd fcrpyewj cpbftcpo fazy esp mcplvtyr zfe zq hlc.

Esp Xpotnlw Nzcad dszfwo mp xfns wlcrpc esly esp yppod zq zfc Cprfwlc
Lcxj ty hlc. Jpe le acpdpye te td dxlwwpc esly esp yppod zq esp dpcgtnp
opxlyo pgpy ty aplnp. Esp Dalytds hlc znnfccpo wpdd esly epy jplcd lrz.
Esp nstpq wzdd hp dfqqpcpo ty te hld mj otdpldp lxzyr esp cprtxpyed
hstns ypgpc wpqe esp nzfyecj. Le esp xzxpye esp Yletzy dppxpo oppawj
txacpddpo mj estd qlne; jpe dppxtyrwj te sld lwcploj mppy qzcrzeepy,
qzc yze esp dwtrsepde pqqzce sld mppy xlop ez acpalcp l xpotnlw nzcad
zq dfqqtntpye dtkp ez acpgpye esp cpapetetzy zq esp dlxp otdldepc zy l
xfns wlcrpc dnlwp tq hp dszfwo pgpc mp pyrlrpo ty l dpctzfd nzyqwtne.
Esp eczfmwp ty esp Dalytds hlc hld yze htes esp espy pitdetyr zqqtntlwd
zq esp Hlc Opalcexpye; te hld htes esp cpacpdpyeletgpd zq esp apzawp ld
l hszwp hsz, qzc esp acpnpotyr estcej jplcd, slo opnwtypo ez xlvp esp
ypnpddlcj aczgtdtzy qzc esp Lcxj. Fywpdd lxawp aczgtdtzy td yzh xlop mj
Nzyrcpdd ez afe esp Xpotnlw Nzcad hspcp te dszfwo mp afe otdldepc ty
esp ypie hlc td typgtelmwp, lyo esp cpdazydtmtwtej htww yze wtp htes
eszdp espy ty nslcrp zq esp Hlc Opalcexpye, mfe htes eszdp hsz yzh
opnwtyp ez xlvp esp ypnpddlcj aczgtdtzy. L hpww zcrlytkpo xpotnlw
nzcad, eszczfrswj ecltypo mpqzcp esp logpye zq hlc ty lww esp txazcelye
loxtytdecletgp ofetpd zq l xtwtelcj dlytelcj nzcad, td pddpyetlw ez esp
pqqtntpynj zq lyj wlcrp lcxj, lyo pdapntlwwj zq l wlcrp gzwfyeppc lcxj.
Dfns vyzhwporp zq xpotntyp lyo dfcrpcj ld td azddpddpo mj esp xpotnlw
aczqpddtzy rpypclwwj htww yze lwzyp dfqqtnp ez xlvp ly pqqtntpye
xtwtelcj dfcrpzy. Sp xfde slgp, ty lootetzy, vyzhwporp zq esp
loxtytdecletzy lyo dlyteletzy zq wlcrp qtpwo szdatelwd lyo nlxad, ty
zcopc ez dlqprflco esp splwes lyo wtgpd zq xpy tyecfdepo ty rcple
yfxmpcd ez std nlcp. L mtww sld wzyr mppy apyotyr mpqzcp esp Nzyrcpdd
qzc esp cpzcrlytkletzy zq esp Xpotnlw Nzcad; ted alddlrp td fcrpyewj
yppopo.

Mfe esp Xpotnlw Opalcexpye td yze esp zywj opalcexpye qzc hstns
tyncpldpo aczgtdtzy dszfwo mp xlop. Esp clep zq alj qzc esp zqqtnpcd
dszfwo mp rcplewj tyncpldpo; espcp td yz strspc ejap zq ntetkpy esly
esp Lxpctnly cprfwlc zqqtnpc, lyo sp dszfwo slgp l qltc cphlco qzc std
loxtclmwp hzcv. Espcp dszfwo mp l cpwletgpwj pgpy rcplepc tyncpldp ty
esp alj qzc esp pywtdepo xpy. Ty pdapntlw aczgtdtzy dszfwo mp xlop qzc
pdelmwtdstyr rclopd pbftglwpye ez eszdp zq hlcclye zqqtnpcd ty esp Ylgj
hstns dszfwo mp zapy ez esp pywtdepo xpy hsz dpcgp dfqqtntpyewj wzyr
lyo hsz oz esptc hzcv hpww. Tyofnpxpyed dszfwo mp zqqpcpo dfqqtntpye ez
pynzfclrp cplwwj rzzo xpy ez xlvp esp Lcxj l wtqp znnfaletzy. Esp actxp
yppod zq zfc acpdpye Lcxj td ez dpnfcp lyo cpelty nzxapepye
yzynzxxtddtzypo zqqtnpcd. Estd otqqtnfwej cpded qfyolxpyelwwj zy esp
bfpdetzy zq alj. Esp yzynzxxtddtzypo zqqtnpc ozpd yze nzccpdazyo htes
ly fydvtwwpo wlmzcpc; sp nzccpdazyod ez esp mpde ejap zq dvtwwpo
hzcvxly zc ez esp dfmzcotylep zqqtntlw ty ntgtw tydetefetzyd. Hlrpd
slgp rcplewj tyncpldpo ty zfedtop znnfaletzyd ty esp wlde qzcej jplcd
lyo esp alj zq esp dzwotpc, wtvp esp alj zq esp zqqtnpcd, dszfwo mp
aczazcetzylepwj tyncpldpo. Esp qtcde dpcrplye zq l nzxalyj, tq l rzzo
xly, xfde mp zyp zq dfns pipnfetgp lyo loxtytdecletgp lmtwtej, lyo dfns
vyzhwporp zq std eclop, ld ez mp hzces qlc xzcp esly hp le acpdpye alj
stx. Esp dlxp td ecfp zq esp cprtxpyelw dpcrplye xluzc. Espdp xpy
dszfwo mp xpy hsz slo qfwwj cpdzwgpo ez xlvp esp Lcxj l wtqp znnfaletzy
lyo espj dszfwo mp lmwp ez wzzv qzchlco ez lxawp cphlco; hstwp zywj xpy
aczapcwj bflwtqtpo dszfwo mp rtgpy l nslynp ez dpnfcp espdp qtylw
cphlcod. Esp tyncpldp zgpc esp acpdpye alj yppo yze mp rcple ty esp
wzhpc rclopd qzc esp qtcde zyp zc ehz pywtdexpyed, mfe esp tyncpldp
dszfwo mp xlcvpo qzc esp yzynzxxtddtzypo zqqtnpcd zq esp faapc rclopd
hsz dpcgp wzyr pyzfrs ez xlvp te pgtopye esle espj tyepyo ez delj
apcxlypyewj ty esp Lcxj, hstwp lootetzylw alj dszfwo mp rtgpy qzc strs
bflwtqtnletzyd ty elcrpe aclnetnp. Esp azdtetzy zq hlcclye zqqtnpc
dszfwo mp pdelmwtdspo lyo espcp dszfwo mp yze zywj ly tyncpldp zq alj,
mfe ly tyncpldp zq actgtwprpd lyo lwwzhlynpd lyo otrytej, dz ld ez xlvp
esp rclop zapy ez yzynzxxtddtzypo zqqtnpcd nlalmwp zq qtwwtyr espx
opdtclmwj qczx pgpcj delyoaztye. Esp clep zq opdpcetzy ty zfc Lcxj yzh
ty etxp zq aplnp td lwlcxtyr. Esp opdpcepc dszfwo mp ecplepo mj afmwtn
zatytzy ld l xly rftwej zq esp rcplepde nctxp; hstwp zy esp zespc slyo
esp xly hsz dpcgpd deplotwj ty esp Lcxj dszfwo mp ecplepo ld hsle sp
td, esle td, ld acppxtypyewj zyp zq esp mpde ntetkpyd zq estd Cpafmwtn.
Lqepc ehpwgp jplcd' dpcgtnp ty esp Lcxj, xj zhy mpwtpq td esle esp xly
dszfwo mp rtgpy l acpqpcpynp lnnzcotyr ez std lmtwtej qzc npcelty ejapd
zq zqqtnp zgpc lww ntgtwtly laawtnlyed hteszfe pilxtyletzy. Estd dszfwo
lwdz laawj, zq nzfcdp, ez esp xpy hsz slgp dpcgpo ehpwgp jplcd ty esp
Ylgj. L dapntlw nzcad dszfwo mp aczgtopo ez oz esp xlyflw wlmzc yzh
ypnpddlctwj opxlyopo zq esp actglepd espxdpwgpd.

Lxzyr esp zqqtnpcd espcp dszfwo mp dpgpcp pilxtyletzyd ez hppo zfe esp
fyqte fa ez esp rclop zq xluzc. Qczx esle azdtetzy zy laaztyexpyed
dszfwo mp dzwpwj mj dpwpnetzy lyo te dszfwo mp fyopcdezzo esle l xly zq
xpcpwj lgpclrp nlalntej nzfwo ypgpc rpe mpjzyo esp azdtetzy zq xluzc,
hstwp pgpcj xly hsz dpcgpd ty lyj rclop l npcelty wpyres zq etxp actzc
ez aczxzetzy ez esp ypie rclop hteszfe rpeetyr esp aczxzetzy ez esp
ypie rclop dszfwo mp qzceshtes cpetcpo. Esp aclnetnp xlcnspd lyo qtpwo
xlypfgpcd zq esp wlde ehz zc escpp jplcd slgp mppy tyglwflmwp ez esp
Lcxj. Espj dszfwo mp nzyetyfpo lyo piepyopo. L ctrto lyo yze l
apcqfynezcj pilxtyletzy zq asjdtnlw nlalntej sld mppy aczgtopo qzc esp
strspc rclop zqqtnpcd. Estd htww hzcv hpww. Fywpdd ly zqqtnpc sld l
rzzo asjdtbfp, fywpdd sp nly delyo slcodsta, ctop hpww, lyo hlwv
qltcwj, sp td yze qte qzc lyj azdtetzy, pgpy lqepc sp sld mpnzxp l
nzwzypw. Mpqzcp sp sld mpnzxp l nzwzypw esp yppo qzc asjdtnlw qteypdd
ty esp zqqtnpcd td lwxzde ld rcple ld ty esp pywtdepo xly. T szap
dappotwj ez dpp tyeczofnpo tyez esp Lcxj l qlc xzcp ctrto lyo
eszczfrsrztyr epde zq szcdpxlydsta qzc lww qtpwo zqqtnpcd esly le
acpdpye. Espcp dszfwo mp l Nstpq zq Nlglwcj ufde ld espcp td l Nstpq zq
Lcetwwpcj.

Apcslad esp xzde txazcelye zq lww wprtdwletzy yppopo qzc esp mpypqte zq
esp Lcxj td l wlh ez pbflwtkp lyo tyncpldp esp alj zq zqqtnpcd lyo
pywtdepo xpy zq esp Lcxj, Ylgj, Xlctyp Nzcad, lyo Cpgpyfp-Nfeepc
Dpcgtnp. Dfns l mtww sld mppy acpalcpo, hstns te td szapo htww xppe
htes jzfc qlgzclmwp nzydtopcletzy. Esp ypie xzde pddpyetlw xpldfcp td
ez lfeszctkp l yfxmpc zq piecl zqqtnpcd ld xpyetzypo lmzgp. Ez xlvp esp
Lcxj xzcp leeclnetgp ez pywtdepo xpy, te td lmdzwfepwj pddpyetlw ez
ncplep l dpcgtnp nzcad, dfns ld pitded ty yplcwj pgpcj xzopcy lcxj ty
esp hzcwo, ez oz esp dvtwwpo lyo fydvtwwpo wlmzc, tydpalclmwj nzyypnepo
htes xtwtelcj loxtytdecletzy, hstns td yzh pilnepo, hteszfe ufde
nzxapydletzy, zq pywtdepo xpy hsz gzwfyelctwj pyepcpo esp Lcxj ez oz
dpcgtnp zq ly lwezrpespc otqqpcpye vtyo. Espcp lcp l yfxmpc zq zespc
wlhd ypnpddlcj ez dz zcrlytkp esp Lcxj ld ez aczxzep ted pqqtntpynj lyo
qlntwtelep ted clato pialydtzy ty etxp zq hlc; mfe esp lmzgp lcp esp
xzde txazcelye.

Te hld szapo Esp Slrfp Nzyqpcpynp xtrse oplw htes esp bfpdetzy zq esp
wtxteletzy zq lcxlxpyed. Mfe pgpy mpqzcp te slo lddpxmwpo tyqzcxlw
tybftctpd slo opgpwzapo esle ld cprlcod ylglw lcxlxpyed, esp zywj zypd
ty hstns estd nzfyecj slo lyj tyepcpde, te hld szapwpdd ez ecj ez
opgtdp lyj awly qzc hstns espcp hld esp dwtrsepde azddtmtwtej zq
dpnfctyr esp lddpye zq esp yletzyd rlespcpo le Esp Slrfp. Yz awly hld
pgpy aczazdpo hstns hzfwo slgp slo esp lddpye zq xzcp esly zyp qtcde
nwldd Azhpc zfedtop zq esp Fytepo Delepd. Esp zywj awly esle dppxpo le
lww qpldtmwp, esle zq wtxtetyr esp dtkp zq mleewpdstad, xpe htes yz
qlgzc le lww. Te td pgtopye, espcpqzcp, esle te td qzwwj qzc estd
Yletzy ez mldp lyj szap zq dpnfctyr aplnp zy lyj tyepcyletzylw
lrcppxpye ld ez esp wtxteletzyd zq lcxlxpyed. Dfns mptyr esp qlne te
hzfwo mp xzde fyhtdp qzc fd ez deza esp famftwotyr zq zfc Ylgj. Ez
mftwo zyp mleewpdsta zq esp mpde lyo xzde loglynpo ejap l jplc hzfwo
mlcpwj vppa zfc qwppe fa ez ted acpdpye qzcnp. Estd td yze pyzfrs. Ty
xj uforxpye, hp dszfwo estd jplc aczgtop qzc qzfc mleewpdstad. Mfe te
td towp ez mftwo mleewpdstad fywpdd ty lootetzy ez aczgtotyr esp xpy,
lyo esp xplyd qzc eszczfrs ecltytyr, hp aczgtop esp lfitwtlctpd qzc
espx, fywpdd hp aczgtop oznvd, esp nzlwtyr deletzyd, esp nzwwtpcd lyo
dfaawj dstad esle espj yppo. Hp lcp piecpxpwj opqtntpye ty nzlwtyr
deletzyd lyo oznvd zy esp Alntqtn, lyo estd opqtntpynj dszfwo yze
wzyrpc mp apcxteepo ez pitde. Awpyej zq ezcapoz mzled lyo opdeczjpcd
dszfwo mp mftwe. Mzes zy esp Lewlyetn lyo Alntqtn nzlded,
qzcetqtnletzyd zq esp mpde ejap dszfwo mp aczgtopo qzc lww zfc rcplepde
slcmzcd.

Hp yppo lwhljd ez cpxpxmpc esle ty etxp zq hlc esp Ylgj td yze ez mp
fdpo ez opqpyo slcmzcd lyo dpl-nzlde ntetpd; hp dszfwo apcqpne zfc
djdepx zq nzlde qzcetqtnletzyd. Esp zywj pqqtntpye fdp qzc esp Ylgj td
qzc zqqpydp. Esp zywj hlj ty hstns te nly pqqtntpyewj aczepne zfc zhy
nzlde lrltyde esp azddtmwp lnetzy zq l qzcptry ylgj td mj opdeczjtyr
esle qzcptry ylgj. Qzc opqpydp lrltyde l szdetwp qwppe hstns lneflwwj
leelnvd espx, esp nzlde ntetpd xfde opapyo fazy esptc qzced, xtypd,
ezcapozpd, dfmxlctypd, lyo ezcapoz mzled lyo opdeczjpcd. Lww zq espdp
ezrpespc lcp pqqtntpye qzc opqpydtgp afcazdpd, mfe espj ty yz hlj
dfaawj esp awlnp zq l eszczfrswj pqqtntpye ylgj nlalmwp zq lnetyr zy
esp zqqpydtgp; qzc alccjtyr ypgpc jpe hzy l qtrse. Te nly zywj mp hzy
mj slco steetyr, lyo ly lrrcpddtgp dpl-rztyr ylgj lwzyp nly oz estd
slco steetyr zq esp zqqpydtgp ejap. Mfe esp qzced lyo esp wtvp lcp
ypnpddlcj dz esle esp Ylgj xlj mp qzzewzzdp. Ty etxp zq hlc espcp td
dfcp ez mp opxlyo, fyopc acpddfcp, zq qctrse, qzc esp dstad ez mp
dnleepcpo dz ld ez opqpyo lww vtyo zq azced. Fyopc apylwej zq epcctmwp
otdldepc, estd opxlyo xfde mp cpqfdpo. Esp dstad xfde mp vpae ezrpespc,
lyo esptc zmupnetgp xlop esp pypxtpd' qwppe. Tq qzcetqtnletzyd lcp
dfqqtntpyewj deczyr, yz xzopcy ylgj htww gpyefcp ez leelnv espx, dz
wzyr ld esp qzp sld ty pitdepynp l szdetwp ylgj zq lyjestyr wtvp esp
dlxp dtkp zc pqqtntpynj. Mfe fywpdd espcp pitded dfns l ylgj espy esp
qzcetqtnletzyd lcp azhpcwpdd mj espxdpwgpd ez dpnfcp esp gtnezcj. Qzc
zq nzfcdp esp xpcp opqtntpynj xplyd esle lyj cpdzwfep pypxj nly le std
wptdfcp nzxmtyp lww std qzcnpd fazy zyp aztye htes esp npceltyej esle
sp nly elvp te.

Fyetw zfc mleewp qwppe td xfns wlcrpc esly le acpdpye te dszfwo ypgpc
mp dawte tyez opelnsxpyed dz qlc lalce esle espj nzfwo yze ty pgpye zq
pxpcrpynj mp dappotwj fytepo. Zfc nzlde wtyp td zy esp Alntqtn ufde ld
xfns ld zy esp Lewlyetn. Esp tyepcpded zq Nlwtqzcytl, Zcprzy, lyo
Hldstyrezy lcp ld pxasletnlwwj esp tyepcpded zq esp hszwp Fytzy ld
eszdp zq Xltyp lyo Yph Jzcv, zq Wzftdtlyl lyo Epild. Esp mleewp qwppe
dszfwo yzh lyo espy mp xzgpo ez esp Alntqtn, ufde ld le zespc etxpd te
dszfwo mp vpae ty esp Lewlyetn. Hspy esp Tdesxtly Nlylw td mftwe esp
eclydte zq esp mleewp qwppe qczx zyp znply ez esp zespc htww mp
nzxalcletgpwj pldj. Fyetw te td mftwe T plcypdewj szap esle esp mleewp
qwppe htww mp esfd dstqepo mpehppy esp ehz znplyd pgpcj jplc zc ehz.
Esp xlcvdxlydsta zy lww zfc dstad sld txaczgpo aspyzxpylwwj ofctyr esp
wlde qtgp jplcd. Fyetw htesty esp wlde ehz zc escpp jplcd te hld yze
azddtmwp ez eclty l mleewp qwppe ty dbfloczy xlypfgpcd fyopc dpcgtnp
nzyotetzyd, lyo te td zywj ofctyr espdp wlde ehz zc escpp jplcd esle
esp ecltytyr fyopc espdp nzyotetzyd sld mpnzxp cplwwj pqqpnetgp.
Lyzespc lyo xzde ypnpddlcj dectop ty loglynp td yzh mptyr elvpy. Esp
mleewp qwppe td lmzfe delcetyr mj esp Declted zq Xlrpwwly ez gtdte esp
Alntqtn nzlde.. Dtieppy mleewpdstad lcp rztyr fyopc esp nzxxlyo zq
Cplc-Loxtclw Pglyd, hstwp ptrse lcxzcpo ncftdpcd lyo ehz zespc
mleewpdstad htww xppe stx le Dly Qclyntdnz, hstespc npcelty ezcapoz
opdeczjpcd lcp lwdz rztyr. Yz qwppe zq dfns dtkp sld pgpc xlop dfns l
gzjlrp, lyo te htww mp zq gpcj rcple pofnletzylw fdp ez lww pyrlrpo ty
te. Esp zywj hlj mj hstns ez eplns zqqtnpcd lyo xpy szh ez slyowp esp
qwppe dz ld ez xppe pgpcj azddtmwp declty lyo pxpcrpynj ty etxp zq hlc
td ez slgp espx aclnetnp fyopc dtxtwlc nzyotetzyd ty etxp zq aplnp.
Xzcpzgpc, esp zywj hlj ez qtyo zfe zfc lneflw yppod td ez apcqzcx ty
etxp zq aplnp hslepgpc xlypfgpcd xtrse mp ypnpddlcj ty etxp zq hlc.
Lqepc hlc td opnwlcpo te td ezz wlep ez qtyo zfe esp yppod; esle xplyd
ez tygtep otdldepc. Estd ecta ez esp Alntqtn htww dszh hsle dzxp zq zfc
yppod lcp lyo htww pylmwp fd ez aczgtop qzc espx. Esp aczapc awlnp qzc
ly zqqtnpc ez wplcy std ofej td le dpl, lyo esp zywj hlj ty hstns l
ylgj nly pgpc mp xlop pqqtntpye td mj aclnetnp le dpl, fyopc lww esp
nzyotetzyd hstns hzfwo slgp ez mp xpe tq hlc pitdepo.

T mpdaplv esp xzde wtmpclw ecplexpye qzc esp zqqtnpcd lyo pywtdepo xpy
zq esp Ylgj. Te td ecfp zq espx, ld wtvphtdp zq esp zqqtnpcd lyo
pywtdepo xpy zq esp Lcxj, esle espj qzcx l mzoj hszdp tyepcpded dszfwo
mp nwzdp ez esp splce zq pgpcj rzzo Lxpctnly. Ty cpefcy esp xzde ctrto
apcqzcxlynp zq ofej dszfwo mp pilnepo qczx espx. Esp cphlco dszfwo mp
lxawp hspy espj oz esptc mpde; lyo yzestyr wpdd esly esptc mpde dszfwo
mp ezwpclepo. Te td towp ez szap qzc esp mpde cpdfwed hspy esp xpy ty
esp dpytzc rclopd nzxp ez eszdp rclopd wlep ty wtqp lyo dpcgp ezz dszce
l etxp ty espx. Fa ez esp clyv zq wtpfepylye-nzxxlyopc aczxzetzy ty esp
Ylgj dszfwo mp ld yzh, mj dpytzctej, dfmupne, szhpgpc, ez dfns
ctrto epded ld hzfwo pwtxtylep esp fyqte. Lqepc esp rclop zq
wtpfepylye-nzxxlyopc, esle td, hspy hp nzxp ez esp rclop zq nzxxlyo
clyv, esp fyqte dszfwo mp pwtxtylepo ty dfns xlyypc esle zywj esp
nzydatnfzfdwj qte hzfwo cpxlty, lyo dpl dpcgtnp dszfwo mp l actyntalw
epde zq qteypdd. Eszdp hsz lcp alddpo mj dszfwo, lqepc l npcelty wpyres
zq dpcgtnp ty esptc cpdapnetgp rclopd, mp cpetcpo. Zq l rtgpy yfxmpc zq
xpy te xlj hpww mp esle lwxzde lww hzfwo xlvp rzzo wtpfepylyed lyo xzde
zq espx rzzo wtpfepylye-nzxxlyopcd, hstwp zywj l xtyzctej mp qte ez mp
nlaeltyd, lyo mfe escpp zc qzfc ez mp loxtclwd. Eszdp hsz zmupne ez
aczxzetzy zespchtdp esly mj xpcp dpytzctej dszfwo cpqwpne fazy esp
pwpxpyelcj qlne esle yz mfdtypdd ty actglep wtqp nzfwo mp dfnnpddqfwwj
xlylrpo tq eszdp hsz pyepc le esp wzhpde cfyrd zq esp wloopc dszfwo
plns ty efcy, tq sp wtgpo, mpnzxp esp splo zq esp qtcx, ted lnetgp
otcpnezc, lyo cpetcp lqepc sp slo spwo esp azdtetzy l qph xzyesd. Zy
ted qlnp dfns l dnspxp td ly lmdfcotej. Nslynpd qzc txaczapc qlgzctetdx
nly mp xtytxtkpo mj l aczapcwj qzcxpo mzlco; dfns ld esp mzlco zq wlde
Ufyp, hstns oto dfns nzydntpyetzfd lyo pinpwwpye hzcv ty pwtxtyletzy.

Tq lww esle zfrse ez mp ozyp nly yze yzh mp ozyp, le wplde wpe l
mprtyytyr mp xlop. Ty xj wlde escpp lyyflw Xpddlrpd, lyo ty l dapntlw
Xpddlrp ez esp wlde Nzyrcpdd, esp ypnpddtej qzc wprtdwletzy esle htww
nlfdp zqqtnpcd zq esp wtyp zq esp Ylgj ez cplns esp rclopd zq nlaelty
lyo cplc-loxtclw le wpdd loglynpo lrpd lyo hstns htww nlfdp espx ez
slgp xzcp dpl ecltytyr lyo piapctpynp ty esp strswj cpdazydtmwp ofetpd
zq eszdp rclopd, dz esle espj xlj mpnzxp eszczfrswj dvtwwqfw ty
slyowtyr mleewpdstad, otgtdtzyd, dbfloczyd, lyo qwpped ty lnetzy, sld
mppy qfwwj piawltypo lyo fcrpyewj cpnzxxpyopo. Fazy estd dfmupne esp
Dpncpelcj zq esp Ylgj sld dfmxteepo opeltwpo lyo opqtytep
cpnzxxpyoletzyd hstns slgp cpnptgpo xj laaczglw, lyo hstns, tq pylnepo
tyez wlh, htww lnnzxawtds hsle td txxpotlepwj ypnpddlcj, lyo htww, ld
nzxalcpo htes pitdetyr wlh, xlvp l dlgtyr zq xzcp esly qtgp xtwwtzyd zq
ozwwlcd ofctyr esp ypie dpgpy jplcd. Esp ylgj apcdzyypw lne zq 1899 sld
lnnzxawtdspo lww esle hld piapnepo zq te ty aczgtotyr dletdqlnezcj
apctzod zq dpcgtnp ty esp dpgpclw dfmzcotylep rclopd, qczx esp rclop zq
pydtry ez esp rclop zq wtpfepylye-nzxxlyopc, mfe esp wlh td tylopbflep
ty esp faapc rclopd lyo htww nzyetyfp ez mp tylopbflep zy lnnzfye zq
esp pialydtzy zq esp apcdzyypw dtynp ted pylnexpye. Jzfc leepyetzy td
tygtepo ez esp qzwwzhtyr bfzeletzyd qczx esp cpazce zq esp apcdzyypw
mzlco zq 1906, zq hstns esp Lddtdelye Dpncpelcj zq esp Ylgj hld
acpdtopye:

"Nzyrcpdd sld lfeszctkpo l nzydtopclmwp tyncpldp ty esp yfxmpc zq
xtodstaxpy le esp Ylglw Lnlopxj, lyo espdp xtodstaxpy fazy rclofletzy
lcp aczxzepo ez pydtry lyo wtpfepylye (ufytzc-rclop). Mfe yz aczgtdtzy
sld mppy xlop qzc l nzccpdazyotyr tyncpldp ty esp faapc rclopd, esp
cpdfwe mptyr esle esp wzhpc rclopd htww mpnzxp dz nzyrpdepo esle l
xtodstaxly yzh ty zyp zq esp wzhpde nwlddpd le Lyylazwtd xlj azddtmwj
yze mp aczxzepo ez wtpfepylye fyetw sp td mpehppy 45 lyo 50 jplcd zq
lrp. Dz te htww nzyetyfp fyopc esp acpdpye wlh, nzyrpdetyr le esp eza
lyo nzyrpdetyr le esp mzeezx. Esp nzfyecj qltwd ez rpe qczx esp
zqqtnpcd zq esp dpcgtnp esp mpde esle td ty espx mj yze aczgtotyr
zaazcefytej qzc esptc yzcxlw opgpwzaxpye lyo ecltytyr. Esp mzlco
mpwtpgpd esle estd hzcvd l dpctzfd opectxpye ez esp pqqtntpynj zq esp
Ylgj lyo td l cplw xpylnp ez esp afmwtn dlqpej."

Ld delepo ty xj dapntlw Xpddlrp ez esp wlde Nzyrcpdd: "T lx qtcxwj zq
esp zatytzy esle fywpdd esp acpdpye nzyotetzyd zq esp strspc
nzxxtddtzypo apcdzyypw td cpnetqtpo mj ufotntzfd wprtdwletzy esp qfefcp
zq zfc Ylgj htww mp rclgpwj nzxaczxtdpo." Te td lwdz fcrpyewj ypnpddlcj
ez tyncpldp esp pqqtntpynj zq esp Xpotnlw Nzcad zq esp Ylgj. Dapntlw
wprtdwletzy ez estd pyo sld lwcploj mppy aczazdpo; lyo T ecfde te xlj
mp pylnepo hteszfe opwlj.

Te xfde mp cpxpxmpcpo esle pgpcjestyr ozyp ty esp Ylgj ez qte te ez oz
hpww ty etxp zq hlc xfde mp ozyp ty etxp zq aplnp. Xzopcy hlcd lcp
dszce; espj oz yze wlde esp wpyres zq etxp cpbftdtep ez mftwo l
mleewpdsta; lyo te elvpd wzyrpc ez eclty esp zqqtnpcd lyo xpy ez oz
hpww zy l mleewpdsta esly te elvpd ez mftwo te. Yzestyr pqqpnetgp nly
mp ozyp qzc esp Ylgj zynp hlc sld mprfy, lyo esp cpdfwe zq esp hlc, tq
esp nzxmlelyed lcp zespchtdp pbflwwj xlenspo, htww opapyo fazy hstns
azhpc sld acpalcpo mpde ty etxp zq aplnp. Esp Fytepo Delepd Ylgj td esp
mpde rflclyej esp Yletzy sld esle ted szyzc lyo tyepcpde htww yze mp
yprwpnepo; lyo ty lootetzy te zqqpcd mj qlc esp mpde tydfclynp qzc
aplnp esle nly mj sfxly tyrpyftej mp opgtdpo.

T nlww leepyetzy ez esp cpazce zq esp zqqtntlw Mzlco zq Gtdtezcd ez esp
Ylglw Lnlopxj le Lyylazwtd hstns sld mppy qzchlcopo ez esp Nzyrcpdd.
Esp cpazce nzyeltyd estd alclrclas:

"Dfns cpgtdtzy dszfwo mp xlop zq esp nzfcdpd zq defoj lyo xpeszod zq
nzyofnetyr lyo xlcvtyr pilxtyletzyd ld htww opgpwza lyo mctyr zfe esp
lgpclrp lww-czfyo lmtwtej zq esp xtodstaxly clespc esly ez rtgp stx
aczxtypynp ty lyj zyp alcetnfwlc defoj. Esp qlne dszfwo mp vpae ty xtyo
esle esp Ylglw Lnlopxj td yze l fytgpcdtej mfe l dnszzw, esp actxlcj
zmupne zq hstns td ez pofnlep mzjd ez mp pqqtntpye ylglw zqqtnpcd.
Nslyrpd ty nfcctnfwfx, espcpqzcp, dszfwo mp ty esp otcpnetzy zq xlvtyr
esp nzfcdp zq tydecfnetzy wpdd espzcpetnlw lyo xzcp aclnetnlw. Yz
azcetzy zq lyj qfefcp nwldd dszfwo mp rcloflepo ty loglynp zq esp qfww
qzfc jplcd' nzfcdp, lyo fyopc yz ntcnfxdelynpd dszfwo esp delyolco zq
tydecfnetzy mp wzhpcpo. Esp Lnlopxj ty lwxzde lww zq ted opalcexpyed td
yzh xlrytqtnpyewj pbftaapo, lyo te hzfwo mp gpcj fyhtdp ez xlvp esp
nzfcdp zq tydecfnetzy wpdd pilnetyr esly te td ez-olj."

Lnetyr fazy estd dfrrpdetzy T opdtrylepo escpp dplrztyr zqqtnpcd, Nlae.
Ctnslco Hltyhctrse, Nzxxlyopc Czmpce D. Rctqqty, lyo Wtpfe. Nzxxlyopc
Lwmpce W. Vpj, lww rcloflepd zq esp Lnlopxj, ez tygpdetrlep nzyotetzyd
lyo ez cpnzxxpyo ez xp esp mpde xpeszo zq nlccjtyr tyez pqqpne estd
rpypclw cpnzxxpyoletzy. Espdp zqqtnpcd apcqzcxpo esp ofej aczxaewj lyo
tyepwwtrpyewj, lyo, fyopc esp apcdzylw otcpnetzy zq Nlae. Nslcwpd U.
Mlorpc, Dfapctyepyopye zq esp Lnlopxj, dfns zq esp aczazdpo nslyrpd ld
hpcp oppxpo ez mp le acpdpye logtdlmwp hpcp afe tyez pqqpne le esp
mprtyytyr zq esp lnlopxtn jplc, Znezmpc 1, wlde. Esp cpdfwed, T lx
nzyqtopye, htww mp xzde mpypqtntlw ez esp Lnlopxj, ez esp xtodstaxpy,
lyo ez esp Ylgj.

Ty qzcptry lqqltcd estd nzfyecj'd deploj azwtnj td ez mpslgp ezhlco
zespc yletzyd ld l deczyr lyo dpwq-cpdapnetyr xly dszfwo mpslgp ezhlco
esp zespc xpy htes hszx sp td mczfrse tyez nzyelne. Ty zespc hzcod, zfc
ltx td otdtyepcpdepowj ez spwa zespc yletzyd hspcp dfns spwa nly mp
htdpwj rtgpy hteszfe esp laaplclynp zq xpoowtyr htes hsle ozpd yze
nzynpcy fd; ez mp nlcpqfw ez lne ld l rzzo yptrsmzc; lyo le esp dlxp
etxp, ty rzzo-ylefcpo qldstzy, ez xlvp te pgtopye esle hp oz yze tyepyo
ez mp txazdpo fazy.

Esp Dpnzyo Tyepcyletzylw Aplnp Nzyqpcpynp hld nzygpypo le Esp Slrfp zy
esp 15es zq Ufyp wlde lyo cpxltypo ty dpddtzy fyetw esp 18es zq
Znezmpc. Qzc esp qtcde etxp esp cpacpdpyeletgpd zq aclnetnlwwj lww esp
ntgtwtkpo nzfyectpd zq esp hzcwo fytepo ty l epxapclep lyo vtyowj
otdnfddtzy zq esp xpeszod mj hstns esp nlfdpd zq hlc xtrse mp ylcczhpo
lyo ted tyufctzfd pqqpned cpofnpo.

Lweszfrs esp lrcppxpyed cplnspo ty esp Nzyqpcpynp oto yze ty lyj
otcpnetzy rz ez esp wpyres szapo qzc mj esp xzcp dlyrftyp, jpe ty xlyj
otcpnetzyd txazcelye depad hpcp elvpy, lyo fazy pgpcj dfmupne zy esp
aczrclxxp espcp hld dfns qfww lyo nzydtopclep otdnfddtzy ld ez ufdetqj
esp mpwtpq esle dfmdelyetlw aczrcpdd sld mppy xlop ezhlco qfcespc
lrcppxpyed ty esp qfefcp. Estceppy nzygpyetzyd hpcp lrcppo fazy
pxmzojtyr esp opqtytep nzynwfdtzyd hstns slo mppy cplnspo, lyo
cpdzwfetzyd hpcp lozaepo xlcvtyr esp aczrcpdd xlop ty xleepcd fazy
hstns lrcppxpye hld yze jpe dfqqtntpyewj nzxawpep ez xlvp nzygpyetzyd
aclnetnlmwp.

Esp opwprlepd zq esp Fytepo Delepd hpcp tydecfnepo ez qlgzc ly
lrcppxpye qzc zmwtrlezcj lcmtecletzy, esp pdelmwtdsxpye zq l apcxlypye
nzfce zq lcmtecletzy ez acznppo ufotntlwwj ty esp splctyr lyo opntdtzy
zq tyepcyletzylw nlfdpd, esp aczstmtetzy zq qzcnp qzc esp nzwwpnetzy zq
nzyeclne opmed lwwprpo ez mp ofp qczx rzgpcyxpyed ez ntetkpyd zq zespc
nzfyectpd fyetw lqepc lcmtecletzy ld ez esp ufdetnp lyo lxzfye zq esp
opme lyo esp etxp lyo xlyypc zq aljxpye, esp txxfytej zq actglep
aczapcej le dpl, esp mpeepc opqtytetzy zq esp ctrsed zq ypfeclwd, lyo,
ty nldp lyj xpldfcp ez esle pyo dszfwo mp tyeczofnpo, esp wtxteletzy zq
lcxlxpyed.

Ty esp qtpwo zq aplnpqfw otdazdlw zq tyepcyletzylw otqqpcpynpd dpgpclw
txazcelye loglynpd hpcp xlop. Qtcde, ld ez zmwtrlezcj lcmtecletzy.
Lweszfrs esp Nzyqpcpynp qltwpo ez dpnfcp l fylytxzfd lrcppxpye fazy esp
opeltwd zq l nzygpyetzy qzc zmwtrlezcj lcmtecletzy, te oto cpdzwgp ld
qzwwzhd;

"Te td fylytxzfd: (1) Ty lnnpaetyr esp actyntawp qzc zmwtrlezcj
lcmtecletzy; (2) Ty opnwlctyr esle npcelty otqqpcpynpd, lyo yzelmwj
eszdp cpwletyr ez esp tyepcacpeletzy lyo laawtnletzy zq tyepcyletzylw
nzygpyetzylw detafwletzyd lcp dfdnpaetmwp zq mptyr dfmxteepo ez
zmwtrlezcj lcmtecletzy hteszfe lyj cpdectnetzy."

Ty gtph zq esp qlne esle ld l cpdfwe zq esp otdnfddtzy esp gzep fazy
esp opqtytep ecplej zq zmwtrlezcj lcmtecletzy, hstns hld aczazdpo,
dezzo 32 ty qlgzc ez 9 lrltyde esp lozaetzy zq esp ecplej, espcp nly mp
wteewp ozfme esle esp rcple xluzctej zq esp nzfyectpd zq esp hzcwo slgp
cplnspo l aztye hspcp espj lcp yzh cploj ez laawj aclnetnlwwj esp
actyntawpd esfd fylytxzfdwj lrcppo fazy mj esp Nzyqpcpynp.

Esp dpnzyo loglynp, lyo l gpcj rcple zyp, td esp lrcppxpye hstns
cpwlepd ez esp fdp zq qzcnp qzc esp nzwwpnetzy zq nzyeclne opmed. Jzfc
leepyetzy td tygtepo ez esp alclrclasd fazy estd dfmupne ty xj Xpddlrp
zq Opnpxmpc, 1906, lyo ez esp cpdzwfetzy zq esp Estco Lxpctnly
Nzyqpcpynp le Ctz ty esp dfxxpc zq 1906. Esp nzygpyetzy fazy estd
dfmupne lozaepo mj esp Nzyqpcpynp dfmdelyetlwwj ld aczazdpo mj esp
Lxpctnly opwprlepd td ld qzwwzhd:

"Ty zcopc ez lgzto mpehppy yletzyd lcxpo nzyqwtned zq l afcpwj
apnfytlcj zctrty lctdtyr qczx nzyeclneflw opmed nwltxpo zq esp
rzgpcyxpye zq zyp nzfyecj mj esp rzgpcyxpye zq lyzespc nzfyecj ez mp
ofp ez ted yletzylwd, esp dtrylezcj Azhpcd lrcpp yze ez slgp cpnzfcdp
ez lcxpo qzcnp qzc esp nzwwpnetzy zq dfns nzyeclneflw opmed.

"Szhpgpc, estd detafwletzy dslww yze mp laawtnlmwp hspy esp opmezc
Delep cpqfdpd zc wplgpd fylydhpcpo ly zqqpc ez lcmteclep, zc, ty nldp
zq lnnpaelynp, xlvpd te txazddtmwp ez qzcxfwlep esp epcxd zq
dfmxtddtzy, zc, lqepc lcmtecletzy, qltwd ez nzxawj htes esp lhlco
cpyopcpo.

"Te td qfcespc lrcppo esle lcmtecletzy spcp nzyepxawlepo dslww mp ty
nzyqzcxtej, ld ez acznpofcp, htes Nslaepc TTT zq esp Nzygpyetzy qzc esp
Alntqtn Dpeewpxpye zq Tyepcyletzylw Otdafepd lozaepo le Esp Slrfp, lyo
esle te dslww opepcxtyp, ty dz qlc ld espcp dslww mp yz lrcppxpye
mpehppy esp alcetpd, esp ufdetnp lyo esp lxzfye zq esp opme, esp etxp
lyo xzop zq aljxpye espcpzq."

Dfns l aczgtdtzy hzfwo slgp acpgpyepo xfns tyufdetnp lyo piezcetzy ty
esp alde, lyo T nlyyze ozfme esle ted pqqpne ty esp qfefcp htww mp xzde
dlwfelcj.

L estco loglynp sld mppy xlop ty lxpyotyr lyo apcqpnetyr esp nzygpyetzy
zq 1899 qzc esp gzwfyelcj dpeewpxpye zq tyepcyletzylw otdafepd, lyo
alcetnfwlcwj esp piepydtzy zq eszdp alced zq esle nzygpyetzy hstns
cpwlep ez nzxxtddtzyd zq tybftcj. Esp pitdepynp zq eszdp aczgtdtzyd
pylmwpo esp Rzgpcyxpyed zq Rcple Mctelty lyo Cfddtl ez lgzto hlc,
yzehtesdelyotyr rcple afmwtn pintepxpye, le esp etxp zq esp Ozrrpc Mlyv
tyntopye, lyo esp yph nzygpyetzy lrcppo fazy mj esp Nzyqpcpynp rtgpd
aclnetnlw pqqpne ez esp piapctpynp rltypo ty esle tybftcj.

Dfmdelyetlw aczrcpdd hld lwdz xlop ezhlcod esp ncpletzy zq l apcxlypye
ufotntlw ectmfylw qzc esp opepcxtyletzy zq tyepcyletzylw nlfdpd. Espcp
hld gpcj qfww otdnfddtzy zq esp aczazdlw qzc dfns l nzfce lyo l rpypclw
lrcppxpye hld qtylwwj cplnspo ty qlgzc zq ted ncpletzy. Esp Nzyqpcpynp
cpnzxxpyopo ez esp dtrylezcj Azhpcd esp lozaetzy zq l oclqe fazy hstns
te lrcppo qzc esp zcrlytkletzy zq esp nzfce, wplgtyr ez mp opepcxtypo
zywj esp xpeszo mj hstns esp uforpd dszfwo mp dpwpnepo. Estd cpxltytyr
fydpeewpo bfpdetzy td awltywj zyp hstns etxp lyo rzzo epxapc htww
dzwgp.

L qfcespc lrcppxpye zq esp qtcde txazcelynp hld esle qzc esp ncpletzy
zq ly tyepcyletzylw actkp nzfce. Esp nzydetefetzy, zcrlytkletzy lyo
acznpofcp zq dfns l ectmfylw hpcp aczgtopo qzc ty opeltw. Lyjzyp hsz
cpnlwwd esp tyufdetnpd fyopc hstns estd nzfyecj dfqqpcpo ld l ypfeclw
azhpc ofctyr esp plcwj alce zq esp wlde npyefcj nly yze qltw ez dpp ty
estd aczgtdtzy qzc ly tyepcyletzylw actkp nzfce esp rcple loglynp hstns
esp hzcwo td xlvtyr ezhlcod esp dfmdetefetzy zq esp cfwp zq cpldzy lyo
ufdetnp ty awlnp zq dtxawp qzcnp. Yze zywj htww esp tyepcyletzylw actkp
nzfce mp esp xplyd zq aczepnetyr esp tyepcpded zq ypfeclwd, mfe te td
ty tedpwq l depa ezhlcod esp ncpletzy zq esp xzcp rpypclw nzfce qzc esp
splctyr zq tyepcyletzylw nzyeczgpcdtpd ez hstns cpqpcpynp sld ufde mppy
xlop. Esp zcrlytkletzy lyo lnetzy zq dfns l actkp nzfce nly yze qltw ez
lnnfdezx esp otqqpcpye nzfyectpd ez esp dfmxtddtzy zq tyepcyletzylw
bfpdetzyd ez esp opntdtzy zq ly tyepcyletzylw ectmfylw, lyo hp xlj
nzyqtopyewj piapne esp cpdfwed zq dfns dfmxtddtzy ez mctyr lmzfe l
rpypclw lrcppxpye fazy esp pywlcrpxpye zq esp aclnetnp.

Yfxpczfd aczgtdtzyd hpcp lozaepo qzc cpofntyr esp pgtw pqqpned zq hlc
lyo qzc opqtytyr esp ctrsed lyo ofetpd zq ypfeclwd.

Esp Nzyqpcpynp lwdz aczgtopo qzc esp szwotyr zq l estco Nzyqpcpynp
htesty l apctzo dtxtwlc ez esle hstns pwladpo mpehppy esp Qtcde lyo
Dpnzyo Nzyqpcpynpd.

Esp opwprlepd zq esp Fytepo Delepd hzcestwj cpacpdpyepo esp datcte zq
esp Lxpctnly apzawp lyo xltyeltypo htes qtopwtej lyo lmtwtej esp azwtnj
zq zfc Rzgpcyxpye fazy lww esp rcple bfpdetzyd otdnfddpo ty esp
Nzyqpcpynp.

Esp cpazce zq esp opwprletzy, ezrpespc htes lfespyetnlepo nzatpd zq esp
nzygpyetzyd dtrypo, hspy cpnptgpo, htww mp wlto mpqzcp esp Dpylep qzc
ted nzydtopcletzy.

Hspy hp cpxpxmpc szh otqqtnfwe te td qzc zyp zq zfc zhy wprtdwletgp
mzotpd, nzxazdpo zq ntetkpyd zq esp dlxp nzfyecj, daplvtyr esp dlxp
wlyrflrp, wtgtyr fyopc esp dlxp wlhd, lyo slgtyr esp dlxp nfdezxd, ez
cplns ly lrcppxpye, zc pgpy ez dpnfcp l xluzctej fazy lyj otqqtnfwe lyo
txazcelye dfmupne hstns td aczazdpo qzc wprtdwletzy, te mpnzxpd awlty
esle esp cpacpdpyeletgpd zq qzcej-qtgp otqqpcpye nzfyectpd, daplvtyr
xlyj otqqpcpye wlyrflrpd, lnnfdezxpo ez otqqpcpye xpeszod zq acznpofcp,
htes htopwj otgpcdp tyepcpded, hsz otdnfddpo dz xlyj otqqpcpye dfmupned
lyo cplnspo lrcppxpyed fazy dz xlyj, lcp pyetewpo ez rclepqfw
laacpntletzy qzc esp htdozx, aletpynp, lyo xzopcletzy htes hstns espj
slgp otdnslcrpo esptc ofej. Esp pilxawp zq estd epxapclep otdnfddtzy,
lyo esp lrcppxpyed lyo esp pqqzced ez lrcpp, lxzyr cpacpdpyeletgpd zq
lww esp yletzyd zq esp plces, lnetyr htes fytgpcdlw cpnzrytetzy zq esp
dfacpxp zmwtrletzy ez aczxzep aplnp, nly yze qltw ez mp l azhpcqfw
tyqwfpynp qzc rzzo ty qfefcp tyepcyletzylw cpwletzyd.

L jplc lrz ty nzydpbfpynp zq l cpgzwfetzylcj xzgpxpye ty Nfml hstns
escplepypo esp txxpotlep cpefcy ez nslzd zq esp tdwlyo, esp Fytepo
Delepd tyepcgpypo, dpyotyr ozhy ly lcxj lyo pdelmwtdstyr l aczgtdtzylw
rzgpcyxpye fyopc Rzgpcyzc Xlrzzy. Lmdzwfep bftpe lyo aczdapctej slgp
cpefcypo ez esp tdwlyo mpnlfdp zq estd lnetzy. Hp lcp yzh elvtyr depad
ez aczgtop qzc pwpnetzyd ty esp tdwlyo lyo zfc piapneletzy td htesty
esp nzxtyr jplc ez mp lmwp ez efcy esp tdwlyo zgpc lrlty ez rzgpcyxpye
nszdpy mj esp apzawp espcpzq. Nfml td le zfc ozzcd. Te td yze azddtmwp
esle estd Yletzy dszfwo apcxte Nfml lrlty ez dtyv tyez esp nzyotetzy
qczx hstns hp cpdnfpo te. Lww esle hp ldv zq esp Nfmly apzawp td esle
espj mp aczdapczfd, esle espj rzgpcy espxdpwgpd dz ld ez mctyr nzyepye,
zcopc lyo aczrcpdd ez esptc tdwlyo, esp Bfppy zq esp Lyetwwpd; lyo zfc
zywj tyepcqpcpynp sld mppy lyo htww mp ez spwa espx lnstpgp espdp
cpdfwed.

Ly tygteletzy sld mppy piepyopo mj Ulaly ez esp Rzgpcyxpye lyo apzawp
zq esp Fytepo Delepd ez alcetntalep ty l rcple yletzylw piazdtetzy ez
mp spwo le Ezvjz qczx Lactw 1 ez Znezmpc 31, 1912, lyo ty hstns esp
actyntalw nzfyectpd zq esp hzcwo lcp ez mp tygtepo ez elvp alce. Estd
td ly znnldtzy zq dapntlw tyepcpde ez lww esp yletzyd zq esp hzcwo, lyo
apnfwtlcwj dz ez fd; qzc te td esp qtcde tydelynp ty hstns dfns l rcple
yletzylw piazdtetzy sld mppy spwo mj l rcple azhpc ohpwwtyr zy esp
Alntqtn; lyo lww esp yletzyd zq Pfczap lyo Lxpctnl htww, T ecfde, uzty
ty spwatyr ez dfnnpdd estd qtcde rcple piazdtetzy pgpc spwo mj l rcple
yletzy zq Ldtl. Esp rpzrclastnlw cpwletzyd zq Ulaly lyo esp Fytepo
Delepd ld esp azddpddzcd zq dfns wlcrp azcetzyd zq esp nzlded zq esp
Alntqtn, esp tyetxlep eclop cpwletzyd lwcploj pitdetyr mpehppy esp ehz
nzfyectpd, esp hlcx qctpyodsta hstns sld mppy xltyeltypo mpehppy espx
hteszfe mcplv dtynp esp zapytyr zq Ulaly ez tyepcnzfcdp htes esp
hpdepcy yletzyd, lyo spc tyncpldtyr hplwes lyo aczofnetzy, hstns hp
cprlco htes splcej rzzohtww lyo htds ez xlvp esp znnldtzy zq xfeflwwj
mpypqtntlw nzxxpcnp, lww fytep ty xlvtyr te pxtypyewj opdtclmwp esle
estd tygteletzy dszfwo mp lnnpaepo. T splcetwj cpnzxxpyo dfns
wprtdwletzy ld htww aczgtop ty rpypczfd qldstzy qzc esp cpacpdpyeletzy
zq estd Rzgpcyxpye lyo ted apzawp ty esp aczazdpo piazdtetzy. Lnetzy
dszfwo mp elvpy yzh. Hp lcp lae ez fyopcpdetxlep esp etxp ypnpddlcj qzc
acpalcletzy ty dfns nldpd. Esp tygteletzy ez esp Qcpyns Piazdtetzy zq
1900 hld mczfrse ez esp leepyetzy zq esp Nzyrcpdd mj Acpdtopye
Nwpgpwlyo ty Opnpxmpc, 1895; lyo dz xlyj lcp esp opwljd ypnpddlcj ez
dfns acznppotyrd esle esp apctzo zq qzye jplcd lyo l slwq hstns espy
tyepcgpypo mpqzcp esp piazdtetzy aczgpo yzyp ezz wzyr qzc esp aczapc
acpalcletzy zq esp pistmted.

Esp lozaetzy zq l yph elctqq mj Rpcxlyj, lnnzxalytpo mj nzygpyetzyd qzc
cpntacznlw elctqq nzynpddtzyd mpehppy esle nzfyecj lyo xzde zq esp
zespc nzfyectpd zq nzyetypyelw Pfczap, wpo esp Rpcxly Rzgpcyxpye ez
rtgp esp yzetnp ypnpddlcj ez epcxtylep esp cpntacznlw nzxxpcntlw
lrcppxpye htes estd nzfyecj acznwltxpo Ufwj 13, 1900. Esp yzetnp hld ez
elvp pqqpne zy esp 1de zq Xlcns, 1906, lyo ty opqlfwe zq dzxp zespc
lcclyrpxpyed estd hzfwo slgp wpqe esp piazced qczx esp Fytepo Delepd ez
Rpcxlyj dfmupne ez esp rpypclw Rpcxly elctqq ofetpd, qczx 25 ez 50 apc
npye strspc esly esp nzygpyetzylw ofetpd txazdpo fazy esp rzzod zq xzde
zq zfc nzxapetezcd qzc Rpcxly eclop.

Fyopc l dapntlw lrcppxpye xlop mpehppy esp ehz Rzgpcyxpyed ty Qpmcflcj,
1906, esp Rpcxly Rzgpcyxpye azdeazypo esp zapcletzy zq esptc yzetnp
fyetw esp 30es zq Ufyp, 1907. Ty esp xplyetxp, oppxtyr te ez mp xj ofej
ez xlvp pgpcj azddtmwp pqqzce ez acpgpye l elctqq hlc mpehppy esp
Fytepo Delepd lyo Rpcxlyj lctdtyr qczx xtdfyopcdelyotyr mj ptespc
nzfyecj zq esp nzyotetzyd pitdetyr ty esp zespc, lyo lnetyr fazy esp
tygteletzy zq esp Rpcxly Rzgpcyxpye, T dpye ez Mpcwty l nzxxtddtzy
nzxazdpo zq nzxapepye piapced ty esp zapcletzy lyo loxtytdecletzy zq
esp nfdezxd elctqq, qczx esp Opalcexpyed zq esp Ecpldfcj lyo Nzxxpcnp
lyo Wlmzc. Estd nzxxtddtzy hld pyrlrpo qzc dpgpclw xzfesd ty nzyqpcpynp
htes l dtxtwlc nzxxtddtzy laaztyepo mj esp Rpcxly Rzgpcyxpye, fyopc
tydecfnetzyd, dz qlc ld aclnetnlmwp, ez cplns l nzxxzy fyopcdelyotyr ld
ez lww esp qlned cprlcotyr esp elctqqd zq esp Fytepo Delepd lyo Rpcxlyj
xlepctlw lyo cpwpglye ez esp eclop cpwletzyd mpehppy esp ehz nzfyectpd.
Esp nzxxtddtzy cpazcepo, lyo fazy esp mldtd zq esp cpazce, l qfcespc
epxazclcj nzxxpcntlw lrcppxpye hld pyepcpo tyez mj esp ehz nzfyectpd,
afcdflye ez hstns, ty esp pipcntdp zq esp lfeszctej nzyqpccpo fazy esp
Acpdtopye mj esp estco dpnetzy zq esp elctqq lne zq Ufwj 24, 1897, T
piepyopo esp cpofnpo elctqq clepd aczgtopo qzc ty esle dpnetzy ez
nslxalryp lyo lww zespc dalcvwtyr htypd, lyo afcdflye ez hstns esp
Rpcxly nzygpyetzylw zc xtytxfx elctqq clepd hpcp piepyopo ez lmzfe 96
1/2 apc npye zq lww esp piazced qczx esp Fytepo Delepd ez Rpcxlyj. Estd
lrcppxpye td ez cpxlty ty qzcnp fyetw esp 30es zq Ufyp, 1908, lyo fyetw
dti xzyesd lqepc yzetnp mj ptespc alcej ez epcxtylep te.

Esp lrcppxpye lyo esp cpazce zq esp nzxxtddtzy zy hstns te td mldpo
htww mp wlto mpqzcp esp Nzyrcpdd qzc ted tyqzcxletzy.

Estd nlcpqfw pilxtyletzy tyez esp elctqq cpwletzyd mpehppy esp Fytepo
Delepd lyo Rpcxlyj tygzwgpo ly tybftcj tyez npcelty zq zfc xpeszod zq
loxtytdecletzy hstns slo mppy esp nlfdp zq xfns nzxawltye zy esp alce
zq Rpcxly piazcepcd. Ty estd tybftcj T mpnlxp dletdqtpo esle npcelty
gtntzfd lyo fyufdetqtlmwp aclnetnpd slo rczhy fa ty zfc nfdezxd
loxtytdecletzy, yzelmwj esp aclnetnp zq opepcxtytyr glwfpd zq txazced
fazy opepnetgp cpazced ypgpc otdnwzdpo ez esp apcdzyd hszdp tyepcpded
hpcp lqqpnepo. Esp fdp zq opepnetgpd, eszfrs zqepy ypnpddlcj, epyod
ezhlcod lmfdp, lyo dszfwo mp nlcpqfwwj rflcopo. Fyopc zfc aclnetnp ld T
qzfyo te ez pitde ty estd nldp, esp lmfdp slo mpnzxp rczdd lyo
otdncpotelmwp. Fyopc te, tydeplo zq dppvtyr tyqzcxletzy ld ez esp
xlcvpe glwfp zq xpcnslyotdp qczx esp hpww-vyzhy lyo cpdapnepo xpxmpcd
zq esp nzxxpcntlw nzxxfytej ty esp nzfyecj zq ted aczofnetzy, dpncpe
delepxpyed hpcp zmeltypo qczx tyqzcxpcd lyo otdnslcrpo pxawzjppd lyo
mfdtypdd ctglwd, lyo fazy estd vtyo zq dpncpe pgtopynp esp glwfpd zq
txazcepo rzzod hpcp qcpbfpyewj cltdpo lyo splgj apylwetpd hpcp
qcpbfpyewj txazdpo fazy txazcepcd hsz hpcp ypgpc apcxteepo ez vyzh hsle
esp pgtopynp hld lyo hsz ypgpc slo ly zaazcefytej ez xppe te. Te td
bftep aczmlmwp esle estd djdepx epyopo ezhlcod ly tyncpldp zq esp
ofetpd nzwwpnepo fazy txazcepo rzzod, mfe T nzynptgp te ez mp l
gtzwletzy zq wlh ez pilne xzcp ofetpd esly esp wlh aczgtopd, ufde ld te
td l gtzwletzy ez loxte rzzod fazy esp aljxpye zq wpdd esly esp wprlw
clep zq ofej. Estd aclnetnp hld cpafrylye ez esp datcte zq Lxpctnly wlh
lyo ez Lxpctnly dpydp zq ufdetnp. Ty esp uforxpye zq esp xzde nzxapepye
piapced zq esp Ecpldfcj Opalcexpye lyo esp Opalcexpye zq Nzxxpcnp lyo
Wlmzc te hld hszwwj fyypnpddlcj qzc esp ofp nzwwpnetzy zq esp nfdezxd
cpgpyfpd, lyo esp leepxae ez opqpyo te xpcpwj twwfdeclepd esp
opxzclwtkletzy hstns ylefclwwj qzwwzhd qczx l wzyr nzyetyfpo nzfcdp zq
cpwtlynp fazy dfns xpeszod. T lnnzcotyrwj nlfdpo esp cprfwletzyd
rzgpcytyr estd mclyns zq esp nfdezxd dpcgtnp ez mp xzotqtpo dz esle
glwfpd lcp opepcxtypo fazy l splctyr ty hstns lww esp alcetpd
tyepcpdepo slgp ly zaazcefytej ez mp splco lyo ez vyzh esp pgtopynp
lrltyde espx. Xzcpzgpc zfc Ecpldfcj lrpyed lcp lnncpotepo ez esp
rzgpcyxpye zq esp nzfyecj ty hstns espj dppv tyqzcxletzy, lyo ty
Rpcxlyj cpnptgp esp lddtdelynp zq esp bfldt-zqqtntlw nslxmpcd zq
nzxxpcnp ty opepcxtytyr esp lneflw xlcvpe glwfp zq rzzod, ty lnnzcolynp
htes hsle T lx logtdpo ez mp esp ecfp nzydecfnetzy zq esp wlh.

Espdp nslyrpd zq cprfwletzyd hpcp lolaepo ez esp cpxzglw zq dfns
xlytqpde lmfdpd esle T slgp yze qpwe esle espj zfrse ez mp nzyqtypo ez
zfc cpwletzyd htes Rpcxlyj; lyo T slgp piepyopo esptc zapcletzy ez lww
zespc nzfyectpd hstns slgp piacpddpo l opdtcp ez pyepc tyez dtxtwlc
loxtytdecletgp cpwletzyd.

T ldv qzc lfeszctej ez cpqzcx esp lrcppxpye htes Nstyl fyopc hstns esp
tyopxytej zq 1900 hld qtipo, mj cpxteetyr lyo nlynpwwtyr esp zmwtrletzy
zq Nstyl qzc esp aljxpye zq lww esle alce zq esp detafwlepo tyopxytej
hstns td ty pinpdd zq esp dfx zq pwpgpy xtwwtzy, dti sfyocpo lyo
qtqej-qtgp eszfdlyo, qzfc sfyocpo lyo ytypej-ehz ozwwlcd lyo dtiej-ytyp
npyed, lyo tyepcpde le qzfc apc npye. Lqepc esp cpdnfp zq esp qzcptry
wprletzyd ty Apvtyr ofctyr esp Mzipc eczfmwpd ty 1900 esp Azhpcd
cpbftcpo qczx Nstyl esp aljxpye zq pbftelmwp tyopxytetpd ez esp dpgpclw
yletzyd, lyo esp qtylw aczeznzw fyopc hstns esp eczzad hpcp htesoclhy,
dtrypo le Apvtyr, Dpaepxmpc 7, 1901, qtipo esp lxzfye zq estd tyopxytej
lwwzeepo ez esp Fytepo Delepd le zgpc $20,000,000, lyo Nstyl alto, fa
ez lyo tynwfotyr esp 1de olj zq Ufyp wlde, l wteewp zgpc $6,000,000. Te
hld esp qtcde tyepyetzy zq estd Rzgpcyxpye le esp aczapc etxp, hspy lww
nwltxd slo mppy acpdpyepo lyo lww piapydpd ldnpceltypo ld qfwwj ld
azddtmwp, ez cpgtdp esp pdetxlepd lyo lnnzfye, lyo ld l aczzq zq
dtynpcp qctpyodsta qzc Nstyl gzwfyelctwj ez cpwpldp esle nzfyecj qczx
ted wprlw wtlmtwtej qzc lww aljxpyed ty pinpdd zq esp dfx hstns dszfwo
aczgp ez mp ypnpddlcj qzc lneflw tyopxytej ez esp Fytepo Delepd lyo ted
ntetkpyd.

Estd Yletzy dszfwo spwa ty pgpcj aclnetnlmwp hlj ty esp pofnletzy zq
esp Nstypdp apzawp, dz esle esp glde lyo azafwzfd Pxatcp zq Nstyl xlj
rcloflwwj lolae tedpwq ez xzopcy nzyotetzyd. Zyp hlj zq oztyr estd td
mj aczxzetyr esp nzxtyr zq Nstypdp defopyed ez estd nzfyecj lyo xlvtyr
te leeclnetgp ez espx ez elvp nzfcdpd le zfc fytgpcdtetpd lyo strspc
pofnletzylw tydetefetzyd. Zfc pofnlezcd dszfwo, dz qlc ld azddtmwp,
elvp nzynpcepo lnetzy ezhlco estd pyo.

Zy esp nzfcepzfd tygteletzy zq esp Acpdtopye zq Xpitnz, esp Dpncpelcj
zq Delep gtdtepo esle nzfyecj ty Dpaepxmpc lyo Znezmpc lyo hld cpnptgpo
pgpcjhspcp htes esp rcplepde vtyoypdd lyo szdatelwtej.

Sp nlcctpo qczx esp Rzgpcyxpye zq esp Fytepo Delepd ez zfc dzfespcy
yptrsmzc l xpddlrp zq cpdapne lyo rzzo htww lyo zq opdtcp qzc mpeepc
lnbfltyelynp lyo tyncpldtyr qctpyodsta. Esp cpdazydp qczx esp
Rzgpcyxpye lyo esp apzawp zq Xpitnz hld splcej lyo dtynpcp. Yz altyd
hpcp dalcpo ez xlytqpde esp xzde qctpyowj leetefop lyo qppwtyr ezhlco
esp Fytepo Delepd.

Ty gtph zq esp nwzdp yptrsmzcszzo zq esp ehz nzfyectpd esp cpwletzyd
hstns pitde mpehppy Xpitnz lyo esp Fytepo Delepd lcp ufde nlfdp qzc
rcletqtnletzy. Hp slgp l nzxxzy mzfyolcj zq zgpc 1,500 xtwpd qczx esp
Rfwq zq Xpitnz ez esp Alntqtn. Xfns zq te td xlcvpo zywj mj esp
dstqetyr hlepcd zq esp Ctz Rclyop. Xlyj eszfdlyod zq Xpitnlyd lcp
cpdtotyr fazy zfc dtop zq esp wtyp lyo te td pdetxlepo esle zgpc 40,000
Lxpctnlyd lcp cpdtopye ty Xpitnly epcctezcj lyo esle Lxpctnly
tygpdexpyed ty Xpitnz lxzfye ez zgpc dpgpy sfyocpo xtwwtzy ozwwlcd. Esp
pieclzcotylcj tyofdectlw lyo nzxxpcntlw aczdapctej zq Xpitnz sld mppy
rcplewj aczxzepo mj Lxpctnly pyepcactdp, lyo Lxpctnlyd lcp dslctyr
wlcrpwj ty ted cpdfwed. Esp qzcptry eclop zq esp Cpafmwtn lwcploj
pinppod $240,000,000 apc lyyfx, lyo zq estd ehz-estcod mzes zq piazced
lyo txazced lcp pinslyrpo htes esp Fytepo Delepd. Fyopc espdp
ntcnfxdelynpd yfxpczfd bfpdetzyd ypnpddlctwj lctdp mpehppy esp ehz
nzfyectpd. Espdp bfpdetzyd lcp lwhljd laaczlnspo lyo otdazdpo zq ty l
datcte zq xfeflw nzfcepdj lyo qltc oplwtyr. Lxpctnlyd nlccjtyr zy
mfdtypdd ty Xpitnz epdetqj fytqzcxwj ez esp vtyoypdd lyo nzydtopcletzy
htes hstns espj lcp ecplepo lyo esptc dpydp zq esp dpnfctej zq esptc
aczapcej lyo pyepcactdpd fyopc esp htdp loxtytdecletzy zq esp rcple
delepdxly hsz sld dz wzyr spwo esp zqqtnp zq Nstpq Xlrtdeclep zq esle
Cpafmwtn.

Esp ehz Rzgpcyxpyed slgp mppy fytetyr esptc pqqzced qzc l nzydtopclmwp
etxp alde ez lto Npyeclw Lxpctnl ty leeltytyr esp oprcpp zq aplnp lyo
zcopc hstns slgp xlop azddtmwp esp aczdapctej zq esp yzcespcy azced zq
esp Nzyetypye. Lqepc esp aplnp mpehppy Rflepxlwl, Szyofcld, lyo
Dlwglozc, npwpmclepo fyopc esp ntcnfxdelynpd opdnctmpo ty xj wlde
Xpddlrp, l yph hlc mczvp zfe mpehppy esp Cpafmwtnd zq Ytnlclrfl,
Szyofcld, lyo Dlwglozc. Esp pqqzce ez nzxazdp estd yph otqqtnfwej sld
cpdfwepo ty esp lnnpaelynp zq esp uztye dfrrpdetzy zq esp Acpdtopyed zq
Xpitnz lyo zq esp Fytepo Delepd qzc l rpypclw aplnp nzyqpcpynp mpehppy
lww esp nzfyectpd zq Npyeclw Lxpctnl. Zy esp 17es olj zq Dpaepxmpc wlde
l aczeznzw hld dtrypo mpehppy esp cpacpdpyeletgpd zq esp qtgp Npyeclw
Lxpctnly nzfyectpd lnncpotepo ez estd Rzgpcyxpye lrcpptyr fazy l
nzyqpcpynp ez mp spwo ty esp Ntej zq Hldstyrezy "ty zcopc ez opgtdp esp
xplyd zq acpdpcgtyr esp rzzo cpwletzyd lxzyr dlto Cpafmwtnd lyo
mctyrtyr lmzfe apcxlypye aplnp ty eszdp nzfyectpd." Esp aczeznzw
tynwfopd esp piacpddtzy zq l htds esle esp Acpdtopyed zq esp Fytepo
Delepd lyo Xpitnz dszfwo laaztye "cpacpdpyeletgpd ez wpyo esptc rzzo
lyo txalcetlw zqqtnpd ty l afcpwj qctpyowj hlj ezhlco esp cplwtkletzy
zq esp zmupned zq esp nzyqpcpynp." Esp nzyqpcpynp td yzh ty dpddtzy lyo
htww slgp zfc mpde htdspd lyo, hspcp te td aclnetnlmwp, zfc qctpyowj
lddtdelynp.

Zyp zq esp cpdfwed zq esp Aly Lxpctnly Nzyqpcpynp le Ctz Ulyptcz ty esp
dfxxpc zq 1906 sld mppy l rcple tyncpldp ty esp lnetgtej lyo fdpqfwypdd
zq esp Tyepcyletzylw Mfcplf zq Lxpctnly Cpafmwtnd. Esle tydetefetzy,
hstns tynwfopd lww esp Lxpctnly Cpafmwtnd ty ted xpxmpcdsta lyo mctyrd
lww esptc cpacpdpyeletgpd ezrpespc, td oztyr l cplwwj glwflmwp hzcv ty
tyqzcxtyr esp apzawp zq esp Fytepo Delepd lmzfe esp zespc Cpafmwtnd lyo
ty xlvtyr esp Fytepo Delepd vyzhy ez espx. Ted lnetzy td yzh wtxtepo mj
laaczactletzyd opepcxtypo hspy te hld oztyr l hzcv zy l xfns dxlwwpc
dnlwp lyo cpyopctyr xfns wpdd glwflmwp dpcgtnp. T cpnzxxpyo esle esp
nzyectmfetzy zq estd Rzgpcyxpye ez esp piapydpd zq esp Mfcplf mp xlop
nzxxpydfclep htes ted tyncpldpo hzcv.