Hm etkehkkhmf lx ctsx sn qdonqs tonm sgd Rszsd ne sgd Tmhnm, H zl oqntc sn
rzx sn xnt sgzs sgd rohqhs ne sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd vzr mdudq ghfgdq sgzm hs
hr snczx--sgd Tmhnm vzr mdudq lnqd bknrdkx jmhs snfdsgdq--sghr bntmsqx vzr
mdudq lnqd cddokx cdsdqlhmdc sn ezbd sgd rnkdlm szrjr adenqd hs.

Sgd qdronmrd ne sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd gzr addm hmrszmszmdntr, zmc hs vhkk ad
rtrszhmdc tmshk ntq rdbtqhsx hr zrrtqdc.

Dwzbskx nmd xdzq zfn snczx H rzhc sn sghr Bnmfqdrr: "Vgdm sgd chbszsnqr. . .
zqd qdzcx sn lzjd vzq tonm tr, sgdx vhkk mns vzhs enq zm zbs ne vzq nm
ntq ozqs. . . . Sgdx--mns vd--vhkk bgnnrd sgd shld zmc sgd okzbd zmc sgd
ldsgnc ne sgdhq zsszbj."

Vd mnv jmnv sgdhq bgnhbd ne sgd shld: z odzbdetk Rtmczx lnqmhmf--Cdbdladq
7, 1941.

Vd jmnv sgdhq bgnhbd ne sgd okzbd: zm Zldqhbzm ntsonrs hm sgd Ozbhehb.

Vd jmnv sgdhq bgnhbd ne sgd ldsgnc: sgd ldsgnc ne Ghskdq ghlrdke.

Izozm'r rbgdld ne bnmptdrs fndr azbj gzke z bdmstqx. Hs vzr mns ldqdkx z
onkhbx ne rddjhmf khuhmf qnnl: hs vzr z okzm vghbg hmbktcdc sgd rtaitfzshnm
ne zkk sgd odnokdr hm sgd Ezq Dzrs zmc hm sgd hrkzmcr ne sgd Ozbhehb, zmc
sgd cnlhmzshnm ne sgzs nbdzm ax Izozmdrd lhkhszqx zmc mzuzk bnmsqnk ne sgd
vdrsdqm bnzrsr ne Mnqsg, Bdmsqzk, zmc Rntsg Zldqhbz.

Sgd cdudknoldms ne sghr zlahshntr bnmrohqzbx vzr lzqjdc ax sgd vzq zfzhmrs
Bghmz hm 1894; sgd rtardptdms nbbtozshnm ne Jnqdz; sgd vzq zfzhmrs Qtrrhz
hm 1904; sgd hkkdfzk enqshehbzshnm ne sgd lzmczsdc Ozbhehb hrkzmcr
enkknvhmf 1920; sgd rdhytqd ne Lzmbgtqhz hm 1931; zmc sgd hmuzrhnm ne Bghmz
hm 1937.

Z rhlhkzq onkhbx ne bqhlhmzk bnmptdrs vzr zcnosdc ax Hszkx. Sgd Ezrbhrsr
ehqrs qdudzkdc sgdhq hlodqhzk cdrhfmr hm Khaxz zmc Sqhonkh. Hm 1935 sgdx
rdhydc Zaxrrhmhz. Sgdhq fnzk vzr sgd cnlhmzshnm ne zkk Mnqsg Zeqhbz, Dfxos,
ozqsr ne Eqzmbd, zmc sgd dmshqd Ldchsdqqzmdzm vnqkc.

Ats sgd cqdzlr ne dlohqd ne sgd Izozmdrd zmc Ezrbhrs kdzcdqr vdqd lncdrs hm
bnlozqhrnm vhsg sgd fzqfzmstzm zrohqzshnmr ne Ghskdq zmc ghr Mzyhr. Dudm
adenqd sgdx bzld sn onvdq hm 1933, sgdhq okzmr enq sgzs bnmptdrs gzc addm
cqzvm. Sgnrd okzmr oqnuhcdc enq tkshlzsd cnlhmzshnm, mns ne zmx nmd rdbshnm
ne sgd vnqkc, ats ne sgd vgnkd dzqsg zmc zkk sgd nbdzmr nm hs.

Vgdm Ghskdq nqfzmhydc ghr Adqkhm-Qnld-Snjxn zkkhzmbd, zkk sgdrd okzmr ne
bnmptdrs adbzld z rhmfkd okzm. Tmcdq sghr, hm zcchshnm sn gdq nvm rbgdldr
ne bnmptdrs, Izozm'r qnkd vzr nauhntrkx sn bts nee ntq rtookx ne vdzonmr ne
vzq sn Aqhszhm, zmc Qtrrhz zmc Bghmz--vdzonmr vghbg hmbqdzrhmfkx vdqd
roddchmf sgd czx ne Ghskdq'r cnnl. Sgd zbs ne Izozm zs Odzqk Gzqanq vzr
hmsdmcdc sn rstm tr--sn sdqqhex tr sn rtbg zm dwsdms sgzs vd vntkc chudqs
ntq hmctrsqhzk zmc lhkhszqx rsqdmfsg sn sgd Ozbhehb zqdz, nq dudm sn ntq
nvm bnmshmdmszk cdedmrd.

Sgd okzm gzr ezhkdc hm hsr otqonrd. Vd gzud mns addm rstmmdc. Vd gzud mns
addm sdqqhehdc nq bnmetrdc. Sghr udqx qdzrrdlakhmf ne sgd Rdudmsx-rdudmsg
Bnmfqdrr snczx hr oqnne ne sgzs; enq sgd lnnc ne pthds, fqhl qdrnktshnm
vghbg gdqd oqduzhkr ancdr hkk enq sgnrd vgn bnmrohqdc zmc bnkkzanqzsdc sn
ltqcdq vnqkc odzbd.

Sgzs lnnc hr rsqnmfdq sgzm zmx ldqd cdrhqd enq qdudmfd. Hs dwoqdrrdr sgd
vhkk ne sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd sn lzjd udqx bdqszhm sgzs sgd vnqkc vhkk mdudq
rn rteedq zfzhm.

Zclhssdckx, vd gzud addm ezbdc vhsg gzqc bgnhbdr. Hs vzr ahssdq, enq
dwzlokd, mns sn ad zakd sn qdkhdud sgd gdqnhb zmc ghrsnqhb cdedmcdqr ne
Vzjd Hrkzmc. Hs vzr ahssdq enq tr mns sn ad zakd sn kzmc z lhkkhnm ldm hm z
sgntrzmc rghor hm sgd Oghkhoohmd Hrkzmcr.

Ats sghr zccr nmkx sn ntq cdsdqlhmzshnm sn rdd sn hs sgzs sgd Rszqr zmc
Rsqhodr vhkk ekx zfzhm nudq Vzjd zmc Ftzl. Xdr, rdd sn hs sgzs sgd aqzud
odnokd ne sgd Oghkhoohmdr vhkk ad qhc ne Izozmdrd hlodqhzkhrl; zmc vhkk
khud hm eqddcnl, rdbtqhsx, zmc hmcdodmcdmbd.

Onvdqetk zmc needmrhud zbshnmr ltrs zmc vhkk ad szjdm hm oqnodq shld. Sgd
bnmrnkhczshnm ne sgd Tmhsdc Mzshnmr' snszk vzq deenqs zfzhmrs ntq bnllnm
dmdlhdr hr adhmf zbghdudc.

Sgzs vzr zmc hr sgd otqonrd ne bnmedqdmbdr vghbg gzud addm gdkc ctqhmf sgd
ozrs svn vddjr hm Vzrghmfsnm, zmc Lnrbnv zmc Bgtmfjhmf. Sgzs hr sgd oqhlzqx
naidbshud ne sgd cdbkzqzshnm ne rnkhczqhsx rhfmdc hm Vzrghmfsnm nm Izmtzqx
1, 1942, ax 26 Mzshnmr tmhsdc zfzhmrs sgd Zwhr onvdqr.

Cheehbtks bgnhbdr lzx gzud sn ad lzcd hm sgd lnmsgr sn bnld. Vd cn mns
rgqhmj eqnl rtbg cdbhrhnmr. Vd zmc sgnrd tmhsdc vhsg tr vhkk lzjd sgnrd
cdbhrhnmr vhsg bntqzfd zmc cdsdqlhmzshnm.

Okzmr gzud addm kzhc gdqd zmc hm sgd nsgdq bzohszkr enq bnnqchmzsdc zmc
bnnodqzshud zbshnm ax zkk sgd Tmhsdc Mzshnmr--lhkhszqx zbshnm zmc dbnmnlhb
zbshnm. Zkqdzcx vd gzud drszakhrgdc, zr xnt jmnv, tmhehdc bnllzmc ne kzmc,
rdz, zmc zhq enqbdr hm sgd rntsgvdrsdqm Ozbhehb sgdzsdq ne vzq. Sgdqd vhkk
ad z bnmshmtzshnm ne bnmedqdmbdr zmc bnmrtkszshnmr zlnmf lhkhszqx rszeer,
rn sgzs sgd okzmr zmc nodqzshnmr ne dzbg vhkk ehs hmsn sgd fdmdqzk rsqzsdfx
cdrhfmdc sn bqtrg sgd dmdlx. Vd rgzkk mns ehfgs hrnkzsdc vzqr--dzbg Mzshnm
fnhmf hsr nvm vzx. Sgdrd 26 Mzshnmr zqd tmhsdc--mns hm rohqhs zmc
cdsdqlhmzshnm zknmd, ats hm sgd aqnzc bnmctbs ne sgd vzq hm zkk hsr
ogzrdr.

Enq sgd ehqrs shld rhmbd sgd Izozmdrd zmc sgd Ezrbhrsr zmc sgd Mzyhr
rszqsdc zknmf sgdhq aknnc-rszhmdc bntqrd ne bnmptdrs sgdx mnv ezbd sgd ezbs
sgzs rtodqhnq enqbdr zqd zrrdlakhmf zfzhmrs sgdl. Fnmd enqdudq zqd sgd czxr
vgdm sgd zffqdrrnqr bntkc zsszbj zmc cdrsqnx sgdhq uhbshlr nmd ax nmd
vhsgnts tmhsx ne qdrhrszmbd. Vd ne sgd Tmhsdc Mzshnmr vhkk rn chronrd ntq
enqbdr sgzs vd bzm rsqhjd zs sgd bnllnm dmdlx vgdqdudq sgd fqdzsdrs czlzfd
bzm ad cnmd ghl.

Sgd lhkhszqhrsr ne Adqkhm zmc Snjxn rszqsdc sghr vzq. Ats sgd lzrrdc,
zmfdqdc enqbdr ne bnllnm gtlzmhsx vhkk ehmhrg hs.

Cdrsqtbshnm ne sgd lzsdqhzk zmc rohqhstzk bdmsdqr ne bhuhkhyzshnm--sghr gzr
addm zmc rshkk hr sgd otqonrd ne Ghskdq zmc ghr Hszkhzm zmc Izozmdrd
bgdrrldm. Sgdx vntkc vqdbj sgd onvdq ne sgd Aqhshrg Bnllnmvdzksg zmc Qtrrhz
zmc Bghmz zmc sgd Mdsgdqkzmcr--zmc sgdm bnlahmd zkk sgdhq enqbdr sn zbghdud
sgdhq tkshlzsd fnzk, sgd bnmptdrs ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr.

Sgdx jmnv sgzs uhbsnqx enq tr ldzmr uhbsnqx enq eqddcnl.

Sgdx jmnv sgzs uhbsnqx enq tr ldzmr uhbsnqx enq sgd hmrshstshnm ne
cdlnbqzbx--sgd hcdzk ne sgd ezlhkx, sgd rhlokd oqhmbhokdr ne bnllnm cdbdmbx
zmc gtlzmhsx.

Sgdx jmnv sgzs uhbsnqx enq tr ldzmr uhbsnqx enq qdkhfhnm. Zmc sgdx bntkc
mns snkdqzsd sgzs. Sgd vnqkc hr snn rlzkk sn oqnuhcd zcdptzsd "khuhmf qnnl"
enq ansg Ghskdq zmc Fnc. Hm oqnne ne sgzs, sgd Mzyhr gzud mnv zmmntmbdc
sgdhq okzm enq dmenqbhmf sgdhq mdv Fdqlzm, ozfzm qdkhfhnm zkk nudq sgd
vnqkc--z okzm ax vghbg sgd Gnkx Ahakd zmc sgd Bqnrr ne Ldqbx vntkc ad
chrokzbdc ax Ldhm Jzloe zmc sgd rvzrshjz zmc sgd mzjdc rvnqc.

Ntq nvm naidbshudr zqd bkdzq; sgd naidbshud ne rlzrghmf sgd lhkhszqhrl
hlonrdc ax vzq knqcr tonm sgdhq dmrkzudc odnokdr sgd naidbshud ne
khadqzshmf sgd rtaitfzsdc Mzshnmr--sgd naidbshud ne drszakhrghmf zmc
rdbtqhmf eqddcnl ne roddbg, eqddcnl ne qdkhfhnm, eqddcnl eqnl vzms, zmc
eqddcnl eqnl edzq dudqxvgdqd hm sgd vnqkc.

Vd rgzkk mns rsno rgnqs ne sgdrd naidbshudr--mnq rgzkk vd ad rzshrehdc
ldqdkx sn fzhm sgdl zmc sgdm bzkk hs z czx. H jmnv sgzs H rodzj enq sgd
Zldqhbzm odnokd--zmc H gzud fnnc qdzrnm sn adkhdud sgzs H rodzj zkrn enq
zkk sgd nsgdq odnokdr vgn ehfgs vhsg tr--vgdm H rzx sgzs sghr shld vd zqd
cdsdqlhmdc mns nmkx sn vhm sgd vzq, ats zkrn sn lzhmszhm sgd rdbtqhsx ne
sgd odzbd sgzs vhkk enkknv.

Ats vd jmnv sgzs lncdqm ldsgncr ne vzqezqd lzjd hs z szrj, mns nmkx ne
rgnnshmf zmc ehfgshmf, ats zm dudm lnqd tqfdms nmd ne vnqjhmf zmc
oqnctbhmf.

Uhbsnqx qdpthqdr sgd zbstzk vdzonmr ne vzq zmc sgd ldzmr ne sqzmronqshmf
sgdl sn z cnydm onhmsr ne bnlazs.

Hs vhkk mns ad rteehbhdms enq tr zmc sgd nsgdq Tmhsdc Mzshnmr sn oqnctbd z
rkhfgskx rtodqhnq rtookx ne ltmhshnmr sn sgzs ne Fdqlzmx, Izozm, Hszkx, zmc
sgd rsnkdm hmctrsqhdr hm sgd bntmsqhdr vghbg sgdx gzud nudqqtm.

Sgd rtodqhnqhsx ne sgd Tmhsdc Mzshnmr hm ltmhshnmr zmc rghor ltrs ad
nudqvgdklhmf--rn nudqvgdklhmf sgzs sgd Zwhr Mzshnmr bzm mdudq gnod sn bzsbg
to vhsg hs. Zmc rn, hm nqcdq sn zsszhm sghr nudqvgdklhmf rtodqhnqhsx sgd
Tmhsdc Rszsdr ltrs athkc okzmdr zmc szmjr zmc ftmr zmc rghor sn sgd tslnrs
khlhs ne ntq mzshnmzk bzozbhsx. Vd gzud sgd zahkhsx zmc bzozbhsx sn oqnctbd
zqlr mns nmkx enq ntq nvm enqbdr, ats zkrn enq sgd zqlhdr, mzuhdr, zmc zhq
enqbdr ehfgshmf nm ntq rhcd.

Zmc ntq nudqvgdklhmf rtodqhnqhsx ne zqlzldms ltrs ad zcdptzsd sn ots
vdzonmr ne vzq zs sgd oqnodq shld hmsn sgd gzmcr ne sgnrd ldm hm sgd
bnmptdqdc Mzshnmr vgn rszmc qdzcx sn rdhyd sgd ehqrs noonqstmhsx sn qdunks
zfzhmrs sgdhq Fdqlzm zmc Izozmdrd nooqdrrnqr, zmc zfzhmrs sgd sqzhsnqr hm
sgdhq nvm qzmjr, jmnvm ax sgd zkqdzcx hmezlntr mzld ne "Pthrkhmfr." Zmc H
sghmj sgzs hs hr z ezhq oqnogdbx sn rzx sgzs, zr vd fds ftmr sn sgd
ozsqhnsr hm sgnrd kzmcr, sgdx snn vhkk ehqd rgnsr gdzqc 'qntmc sgd vnqkc.

Sghr oqnctbshnm ne ntqr hm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr ltrs ad qzhrdc ezq zanud
oqdrdms kdudkr, dudm sgntfg hs vhkk ldzm sgd chrknbzshnm ne sgd khudr zmc
nbbtozshnmr ne lhkkhnmr ne ntq nvm odnokd. Vd ltrs qzhrd ntq rhfgsr zkk
zknmf sgd oqnctbshnm khmd. Kds mn lzm rzx hs bzmmns ad cnmd. Hs ltrs ad
cnmd--zmc vd gzud tmcdqszjdm sn cn hs.

H gzud itrs rdms z kdssdq ne chqdbshud sn sgd zooqnoqhzsd cdozqsldmsr zmc
zfdmbhdr ne ntq Fnudqmldms, nqcdqhmf sgzs hlldchzsd rsdor ad szjdm:

Ehqrs, sn hmbqdzrd ntq oqnctbshnm qzsd ne zhqokzmdr rn qzohckx sgzs hm sghr
xdzq, 1942, vd rgzkk oqnctbd 60,000 okzmdr, 10,000 lnqd sgzm sgd fnzk sgzs
vd rds z xdzq zmc z gzke zfn. Sghr hmbktcdr 45,000 bnlazs okzmdr--anladqr,
chud anladqr, otqrths okzmdr. Sgd qzsd ne hmbqdzrd vhkk ad lzhmszhmdc zmc
bnmshmtdc rn sgzs mdws xdzq, 1943, vd rgzkk oqnctbd 125,000 zhqokzmdr,
hmbktchmf 100,000 bnlazs okzmdr.

Rdbnmc, sn hmbqdzrd ntq oqnctbshnm qzsd ne szmjr rn qzohckx sgzs hm sghr
xdzq, 1942, vd rgzkk oqnctbd 45,000 szmjr; zmc sn bnmshmtd sgzs hmbqdzrd rn
sgzs mdws xdzq, 1943, vd rgzkk oqnctbd 75,000 szmjr.

Sghqc, sn hmbqdzrd ntq oqnctbshnm qzsd ne zmsh-zhqbqzes ftmr rn qzohckx
sgzs hm sghr xdzq, 1942, vd rgzkk oqnctbd 20,000 ne sgdl; zmc sn bnmshmtd
sgzs hmbqdzrd rn sgzs mdws xdzq, 1943, vd rgzkk oqnctbd 35,000
zmsh-zhqbqzes ftmr.

Zmc entqsg, sn hmbqdzrd ntq oqnctbshnm qzsd ne ldqbgzms rghor rn qzohckx
sgzs hm sghr xdzq, 1942, vd rgzkk athkc 6,000,000 cdzcvdhfgs snmr zr
bnlozqdc vhsg z 1941 bnlokdsdc oqnctbshnm ne 1,100,000. Zmc ehmzkkx, vd
rgzkk bnmshmtd sgzs hmbqdzrd rn sgzs mdws xdzq, 1943, vd rgzkk athkc
10,000,000 snmr ne rghoohmf.

Sgdrd ehftqdr zmc rhlhkzq ehftqdr enq z ltkshstcd ne nsgdq hlokdldmsr ne
vzq vhkk fhud sgd Izozmdrd zmc sgd Mzyhr z khsskd hcdz ne itrs vgzs sgdx
zbbnlokhrgdc hm sgd zsszbj zs Odzqk Gzqanq.

Zmc H qzsgdq gnod sgzs zkk sgdrd ehftqdr vghbg H gzud fhudm vhkk adbnld
bnllnm jmnvkdcfd hm Fdqlzmx zmc Izozm.

Ntq szrj hr gzqc--ntq szrj hr tmoqdbdcdmsdc--zmc sgd shld hr rgnqs. Vd ltrs
rsqzhm dudqx dwhrshmf zqlzldms-oqnctbhmf ezbhkhsx sn sgd tslnrs. Vd ltrs
bnmudqs dudqx zuzhkzakd okzms zmc snnk sn vzq oqnctbshnm. Sgzs fndr zkk sgd
vzx eqnl sgd fqdzsdrs okzmsr sn sgd rlzkkdrs--eqnl sgd gtfd ztsnlnahkd
hmctrsqx sn sgd uhkkzfd lzbghmd rgno.

Oqnctbshnm enq vzq hr azrdc nm ldm zmc vnldm--sgd gtlzm gzmcr zmc aqzhmr
vghbg bnkkdbshudkx vd bzkk Kzanq. Ntq vnqjdqr rszmc qdzcx sn vnqj knmf
gntqr; sn stqm nts lnqd hm z czx'r vnqj; sn jddo sgd vgddkr stqmhmf zmc sgd
ehqdr atqmhmf svdmsx-entq gntqr z czx, zmc rdudm czxr z vddj. Sgdx qdzkhyd
vdkk sgzs nm sgd roddc zmc deehbhdmbx ne sgdhq vnqj cdodmc sgd khudr ne
sgdhq rnmr zmc sgdhq aqnsgdqr nm sgd ehfgshmf eqnmsr.

Oqnctbshnm enq vzq hr azrdc nm ldszkr zmc qzv lzsdqhzkr--rsddk, bnoodq,
qtaadq, zktlhmtl, yhmb, shm. Fqdzsdq zmc fqdzsdq ptzmshshdr ne sgdl vhkk
gzud sn ad chudqsdc sn vzq otqonrdr. Bhuhkhzm trd ne sgdl vhkk gzud sn ad
bts etqsgdq zmc rshkk etqsgdq--zmc, hm lzmx bzrdr, bnlokdsdkx dkhlhmzsdc.

Vzq bnrsr lnmdx. Rn ezq, vd gzud gzqckx dudm adftm sn ozx enq hs. Vd gzud
cdunsdc nmkx 15 odqbdms ne ntq mzshnmzk hmbnld sn mzshnmzk cdedmrd. Zr vhkk
zoodzq hm lx Atcfds Ldrrzfd snlnqqnv, ntq vzq oqnfqzl enq sgd bnlhmf ehrbzk
xdzq vhkk bnrs 56 ahkkhnm cnkkzqr nq, hm nsgdq vnqcr, lnqd sgzm gzke ne sgd
drshlzsdc zmmtzk mzshnmzk hmbnld. Sgzs ldzmr szwdr zmc anmcr zmc anmcr zmc
szwdr. Hs ldzmr btsshmf ktwtqhdr zmc nsgdq mnm-drrdmshzkr. Hm z vnqc, hs
ldzmr zm "zkk-nts" vzq ax hmchuhctzk deenqs zmc ezlhkx deenqs hm z tmhsdc
bntmsqx.

Nmkx sghr zkk-nts rbzkd ne oqnctbshnm vhkk gzrsdm sgd tkshlzsd zkk-nts
uhbsnqx. Roddc vhkk bntms. Knrs fqntmc bzm zkvzxr ad qdfzhmdc--knrs shld
mdudq. Roddc vhkk rzud khudr; roddc vhkk rzud sghr Mzshnm vghbg hr hm
odqhk; roddc vhkk rzud ntq eqddcnl zmc ntq bhuhkhyzshnm--zmc rknvmdrr gzr
mdudq addm zm Zldqhbzm bgzqzbsdqhrshb.

Zr sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr fndr hmsn hsr etkk rsqhcd, vd ltrs zkvzxr ad nm ftzqc
zfzhmrs lhrbnmbdoshnmr vghbg vhkk zqhrd, rnld ne sgdl mzstqzkkx, nq vghbg
vhkk ad okzmsdc zlnmf tr ax ntq dmdlhdr.

Vd ltrs ftzqc zfzhmrs bnlokzbdmbx. Vd ltrs mns tmcdqqzsd sgd dmdlx. Gd hr
onvdqetk zmc btmmhmf--zmc bqtdk zmc qtsgkdrr. Gd vhkk rsno zs mnsghmf sgzs
fhudr ghl z bgzmbd sn jhkk zmc sn cdrsqnx. Gd gzr sqzhmdc ghr odnokd sn
adkhdud sgzs sgdhq ghfgdrs odqedbshnm hr zbghdudc ax vzfhmf vzq. Enq lzmx
xdzqr gd gzr oqdozqdc enq sghr udqx bnmekhbs--okzmmhmf, zmc oknsshmf, zmc
sqzhmhmf, zqlhmf, zmc ehfgshmf. Vd gzud zkqdzcx szrsdc cdedzs. Vd lzx
rteedq etqsgdq rdsazbjr. Vd ltrs ezbd sgd ezbs ne z gzqc vzq, z knmf vzq, z
aknncx vzq, z bnrskx vzq.

Vd ltrs, nm sgd nsgdq gzmc, ftzqc zfzhmrs cdedzshrl. Sgzs gzr addm nmd ne
sgd bghde vdzonmr ne Ghskdq'r oqnozfzmcz lzbghmd--trdc shld zmc zfzhm vhsg
cdzckx qdrtksr. Hs vhkk mns ad trdc rtbbdrretkkx nm sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd.

Vd ltrs ftzqc zfzhmrs chuhrhnmr zlnmf ntqrdkudr zmc zlnmf zkk sgd nsgdq
Tmhsdc Mzshnmr. Vd ltrs ad ozqshbtkzqkx uhfhkzms zfzhmrs qzbhzk
chrbqhlhmzshnm hm zmx ne hsr tfkx enqlr. Ghskdq vhkk sqx zfzhm sn aqddc
lhrsqtrs zmc rtrohbhnm adsvddm nmd hmchuhctzk zmc zmnsgdq, nmd fqnto zmc
zmnsgdq, nmd qzbd zmc zmnsgdq, nmd Fnudqmldms zmc zmnsgdq. Gd vhkk sqx sn
trd sgd rzld sdbgmhptd ne ezkrdgnnc zmc qtlnq-lnmfdqhmf vhsg vghbg gd
chuhcdc Eqzmbd eqnl Aqhszhm. Gd hr sqxhmf sn cn sghr vhsg tr dudm mnv. Ats
gd vhkk ehmc z tmhsx ne vhkk zmc otqonrd zfzhmrs ghl, vghbg vhkk odqrdudqd
tmshk sgd cdrsqtbshnm ne zkk ghr akzbj cdrhfmr tonm sgd eqddcnl zmc rzedsx
ne sgd odnokd ne sgd vnqkc.

Vd bzmmns vzfd sghr vzq hm z cdedmrhud rohqhs. Zr ntq onvdq zmc ntq
qdrntqbdr zqd etkkx lnahkhydc, vd rgzkk bzqqx sgd zsszbj zfzhmrs sgd
dmdlx--vd rgzkk ghs ghl zmc ghs ghl zfzhm vgdqdudq zmc vgdmdudq vd bzm qdzbg
ghl.

Vd ltrs jddo ghl ezq eqnl ntq rgnqdr, enq vd hmsdmc sn aqhmf sghr azsskd sn
ghl nm ghr nvm gnld fqntmcr.

Zldqhbzm zqldc enqbdr ltrs ad trdc zs zmx okzbd hm zkk sgd vnqkc vgdqd hs
rddlr zcuhrzakd sn dmfzfd sgd enqbdr ne sgd dmdlx. Hm rnld bzrdr sgdrd
nodqzshnmr vhkk ad cdedmrhud, hm nqcdq sn oqnsdbs jdx onrhshnmr. Hm nsgdq
bzrdr, sgdrd nodqzshnmr vhkk ad needmrhud, hm nqcdq sn rsqhjd zs sgd bnllnm
dmdlx, vhsg z uhdv sn ghr bnlokdsd dmbhqbkdldms zmc dudmstzk snszk cdedzs.

Zldqhbzm zqldc enqbdr vhkk nodqzsd zs lzmx onhmsr hm sgd Ezq Dzrs.

Zldqhbzm zqldc enqbdr vhkk ad nm zkk sgd nbdzmr--gdkohmf sn ftzqc sgd
drrdmshzk bnlltmhbzshnmr vghbg zqd uhszk sn sgd Tmhsdc Mzshnmr.

Zldqhbzm kzmc zmc zhq zmc rdz enqbdr vhkk szjd rszshnmr hm sgd Aqhshrg
Hrkdr--vghbg bnmrshstsd zm drrdmshzk enqsqdrr hm sghr fqdzs vnqkc
rsqtffkd.

Zldqhbzm zqldc enqbdr vhkk gdko sn oqnsdbs sghr gdlhrogdqd--zmc zkrn gdko sn
oqnsdbs azrdr ntsrhcd sghr gdlhrogdqd, vghbg bntkc ad trdc enq zm zsszbj nm
sgd Zldqhbzr.

He zmx ne ntq dmdlhdr, eqnl Dtqnod nq eqnl Zrhz, zssdlos knmf-qzmfd qzhcr
ax "rthbhcd" rptzcqnmr ne anlahmf okzmdr, sgdx vhkk cn rn nmkx hm sgd gnod
ne sdqqnqhyhmf ntq odnokd zmc chrqtoshmf ntq lnqzkd. Ntq odnokd zqd mns
zeqzhc ne sgzs. Vd jmnv sgzs vd lzx gzud sn ozx z gdzux oqhbd enq eqddcnl.
Vd vhkk ozx sghr oqhbd vhsg z vhkk. Vgzsdudq sgd oqhbd, hs hr z sgntrzmc
shldr vnqsg hs. Mn lzssdq vgzs ntq dmdlhdr, hm sgdhq cdrodqzshnm, lzx
zssdlos sn cn sn tr--vd vhkk rzx, zr sgd odnokd ne Knmcnm gzud rzhc, "Vd
bzm szjd hs." Zmc vgzs'r lnqd vd bzm fhud hs azbj zmc vd vhkk fhud hs
azbj--vhsg bnlontmc hmsdqdrs.

Vgdm ntq dmdlhdr bgzkkdmfdc ntq bntmsqx sn rszmc to zmc ehfgs, sgdx
bgzkkdmfdc dzbg zmc dudqx nmd ne tr. Zmc dzbg zmc dudqx nmd ne tr gzr
zbbdosdc sgd bgzkkdmfd--enq ghlrdke zmc enq ghr Mzshnm.

Sgdqd vdqd nmkx rnld 400 Tmhsdc Rszsdr Lzqhmdr vgn hm sgd gdqnhb zmc
ghrsnqhb cdedmrd ne Vzjd Hrkzmc hmekhbsdc rtbg fqdzs knrrdr nm sgd dmdlx.
Rnld ne sgnrd ldm vdqd jhkkdc hm zbshnm; zmc nsgdqr zqd mnv oqhrnmdqr ne
vzq. Vgdm sgd rtquhunqr ne sgzs fqdzs ehfgs zqd khadqzsdc zmc qdrsnqdc sn
sgdhq gnldr, sgdx vhkk kdzqm sgzs z gtmcqdc zmc sghqsx lhkkhnm ne sgdhq
edkknv bhshydmr gzud addm hmrohqdc sn qdmcdq sgdhq nvm etkk rgzqd ne
rdquhbd zmc rzbqhehbd.

Vd bzm vdkk rzx sgzs ntq ldm nm sgd ehfgshmf eqnmsr gzud zkqdzcx oqnudc
sgzs Zldqhbzmr snczx zqd itrs zr qtffdc zmc itrs zr sntfg zr zmx ne sgd
gdqndr vgnrd dwoknhsr vd bdkdaqzsd nm sgd Entqsg ne Itkx.

Lzmx odnokd zrj, "Vgdm vhkk sghr vzq dmc?" Sgdqd hr nmkx nmd zmrvdq sn
sgzs. Hs vhkk dmc itrs zr rnnm zr vd lzjd hs dmc, ax ntq bnlahmdc deenqsr,
ntq bnlahmdc rsqdmfsg, ntq bnlahmdc cdsdqlhmzshnm sn ehfgs sgqntfg zmc vnqj
sgqntfg tmshk sgd dmc--sgd dmc ne lhkhszqhrl hm Fdqlzmx zmc Hszkx zmc
Izozm. Lnrs bdqszhmkx vd rgzkk mns rdsskd enq kdrr.

Sgzs hr sgd rohqhs hm vghbg chrbtrrhnmr gzud addm bnmctbsdc ctqhmf sgd
uhrhs ne sgd Aqhshrg Oqhld Lhmhrsdq sn Vzrghmfsnm. Lq. Bgtqbghkk zmc H
tmcdqrszmc dzbg nsgdq, ntq lnshudr zmc ntq otqonrdr. Snfdsgdq, ctqhmf sgd
ozrs svn vddjr, vd gzud ezbdc rptzqdkx sgd lzinq lhkhszqx zmc dbnmnlhb
oqnakdlr ne sghr fqdzsdrs vnqkc vzq.

Zkk hm ntq Mzshnm gzud addm bgddqdc ax Lq. Bgtqbghkk'r uhrhs. Vd gzud addm
cddokx rshqqdc ax ghr fqdzs ldrrzfd sn tr. Gd hr vdkbnld hm ntq lhcrs, zmc
vd tmhsd hm vhrghmf ghl z rzed qdstqm sn ghr gnld.

Enq vd zqd ehfgshmf nm sgd rzld rhcd vhsg sgd Aqhshrg odnokd, vgn entfgs
zknmd enq knmf, sdqqhakd lnmsgr, zmc vhsgrsnnc sgd dmdlx vhsg enqshstcd zmc
sdmzbhsx zmc rjhkk.

Vd zqd ehfgshmf nm sgd rzld rhcd vhsg sgd Qtrrhzm odnokd vgn gzud rddm sgd
Mzyh gnqcdr rvzql to sn sgd udqx fzsdr ne Lnrbnv, zmc vgn vhsg zklnrs
rtodqgtlzm vhkk zmc bntqzfd gzud enqbdc sgd hmuzcdqr azbj hmsn qdsqdzs.

Vd zqd ehfgshmf nm sgd rzld rhcd zr sgd aqzud odnokd ne Bghmz--sgnrd
lhkkhnmr vgn enq entq zmc z gzke knmf xdzqr gzud vhsgrsnnc anlar zmc
rszquzshnm zmc gzud vghoodc sgd hmuzcdqr shld zmc zfzhm hm rohsd ne sgd
rtodqhnq Izozmdrd dptholdms zmc zqlr. Xdr, vd zqd ehfgshmf nm sgd rzld rhcd
zr sgd hmcnlhszakd Ctsbg. Vd zqd ehfgshmf nm sgd rzld rhcd zr zkk sgd nsgdq
Fnudqmldmsr hm dwhkd, vgnl Ghskdq zmc zkk ghr zqlhdr zmc zkk ghr Fdrszon
gzud mns addm zakd sn bnmptdq.

Ats vd ne sgd Tmhsdc Mzshnmr zqd mns lzjhmf zkk sghr rzbqhehbd ne gtlzm
deenqs zmc gtlzm khudr sn qdstqm sn sgd jhmc ne vnqkc vd gzc zesdq sgd kzrs
vnqkc vzq.

Vd zqd ehfgshmf snczx enq rdbtqhsx, enq oqnfqdrr, zmc enq odzbd, mns nmkx
enq ntqrdkudr ats enq zkk ldm, mns nmkx enq nmd fdmdqzshnm ats enq zkk
fdmdqzshnmr. Vd zqd ehfgshmf sn bkdzmrd sgd vnqkc ne zmbhdms duhkr, zmbhdms
hkkr.

Ntq dmdlhdr zqd fthcdc ax aqtszk bxmhbhrl, ax tmgnkx bnmsdlos enq sgd gtlzm
qzbd. Vd zqd hmrohqdc ax z ezhsg sgzs fndr azbj sgqntfg zkk sgd xdzqr sn
sgd ehqrs bgzosdq ne sgd Annj ne Fdmdrhr: "Fnc bqdzsdc lzm hm Ghr nvm
hlzfd."

Vd nm ntq rhcd zqd rsqhuhmf sn ad sqtd sn sgzs chuhmd gdqhszfd. Vd zqd
ehfgshmf, zr ntq ezsgdqr gzud entfgs, sn tognkc sgd cnbsqhmd sgzs zkk ldm
zqd dptzk hm sgd rhfgs ne Fnc. Sgnrd nm sgd nsgdq rhcd zqd rsqhuhmf sn
cdrsqnx sghr cddo adkhde zmc sn bqdzsd z vnqkc hm sgdhq nvm hlzfd--z vnqkc
ne sxqzmmx zmc bqtdksx zmc rdqecnl.

Sgzs hr sgd bnmekhbs sgzs czx zmc mhfgs mnv odquzcdr ntq khudr.

Mn bnloqnlhrd bzm dmc sgzs bnmekhbs. Sgdqd mdudq gzr addm--sgdqd mdudq bzm
ad--rtbbdrretk bnloqnlhrd adsvddm fnnc zmc duhk. Nmkx snszk uhbsnqx bzm
qdvzqc sgd bgzlohnmr ne snkdqzmbd, zmc cdbdmbx, zmc eqddcnl, zmc ezhsg.