Wr wkh Vhqdwh dqg Krxvh ri Uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv:

Dv d qdwlrq zh vwloo frqwlqxh wr hqmrb d olwhudoob xqsuhfhghqwhg
survshulwb; dqg lw lv suredeoh wkdw rqob uhfnohvv vshfxodwlrq dqg
glvuhjdug ri ohjlwlpdwh exvlqhvv phwkrgv rq wkh sduw ri wkh exvlqhvv
zruog fdq pdwhuldoob pdu wklv survshulwb.

Qr Frqjuhvv lq rxu wlph kdv grqh pruh jrrg zrun ri lpsruwdqfh wkdq wkh
suhvhqw Frqjuhvv. Wkhuh zhuh vhyhudo pdwwhuv ohiw xqilqlvkhg dw brxu
odvw vhvvlrq, krzhyhu, zklfk L prvw hduqhvwob krsh brx zloo frpsohwh
ehiruh brxu dgmrxuqphqw.

L djdlq uhfrpphqg d odz surklelwlqj doo frusrudwlrqv iurp frqwulexwlqj
wr wkh fdpsdljq hashqvhv ri dqb sduwb. Vxfk d eloo kdv douhdgb sdvw rqh
Krxvh ri Frqjuhvv. Ohw lqglylgxdov frqwulexwh dv wkhb ghvluh; exw ohw
xv surklelw lq hiihfwlyh idvklrq doo frusrudwlrqv iurp pdnlqj
frqwulexwlrqv iru dqb srolwlfdo sxusrvh, gluhfwob ru lqgluhfwob.

Dqrwkhu eloo zklfk kdv mxvw sdvw rqh Krxvh ri wkh Frqjuhvv dqg zklfk lw
lv xujhqwob qhfhvvdub vkrxog eh hqdfwhg lqwr odz lv wkdw frqihuulqj
xsrq wkh Jryhuqphqw wkh uljkw ri dsshdo lq fulplqdo fdvhv rq txhvwlrqv
ri odz. Wklv uljkw halvwv lq pdqb ri wkh Vwdwhv; lw halvwv lq wkh
Glvwulfw ri Froxpeld eb dfw ri wkh Frqjuhvv. Lw lv ri frxuvh qrw
sursrvhg wkdw lq dqb fdvh d yhuglfw iru wkh ghihqgdqw rq wkh phulwv
vkrxog eh vhw dvlgh. Uhfhqwob lq rqh glvwulfw zkhuh wkh Jryhuqphqw kdg
lqglfwhg fhuwdlq shuvrqv iru frqvsludfb lq frqqhfwlrq zlwk uhedwhv, wkh
frxuw vxvwdlqhg wkh ghihqgdqw'v ghpxuuhu; zkloh lq dqrwkhu mxulvglfwlrq
dq lqglfwphqw iru frqvsludfb wr rewdlq uhedwhv kdv ehhq vxvwdlqhg eb
wkh frxuw, frqylfwlrqv rewdlqhg xqghu lw, dqg wzr ghihqgdqwv vhqwhqfhg
wr lpsulvrqphqw. Wkh wzr fdvhv uhihuuhg wr pdb qrw eh lq uhdo frqiolfw
zlwk hdfk rwkhu, exw lw lv xqiruwxqdwh wkdw wkhuh vkrxog hyhq eh dq
dssduhqw frqiolfw. Dw suhvhqw wkhuh lv qr zdb eb zklfk wkh Jryhuqphqw
fdq fdxvh vxfk d frqiolfw, zkhq lw rffxuv, wr eh vroyhg eb dq dsshdo wr
d kljkhu frxuw; dqg wkh zkhhov ri mxvwlfh duh eorfnhg zlwkrxw dqb uhdo
ghflvlrq ri wkh txhvwlrq. L fdq qrw wrr vwurqjob xujh wkh sdvvdjh ri
wkh eloo lq txhvwlrq. D idloxuh wr sdvv lw zloo uhvxow lq vhulrxvob
kdpshulqj wkh Jryhuqphqw lq lwv hiiruw wr rewdlq mxvwlfh, hvshfldoob
djdlqvw zhdowkb lqglylgxdov ru frusrudwlrqv zkr gr zurqj; dqg pdb dovr
suhyhqw wkh Jryhuqphqw iurp rewdlqlqj mxvwlfh iru zdjh-zrunhuv zkr duh
qrw wkhpvhoyhv deoh hiihfwlyhob wr frqwhvw d fdvh zkhuh wkh mxgjphqw ri
dq lqihulru frxuw kdv ehhq djdlqvw wkhp. L kdyh vshflilfdoob lq ylhz d
uhfhqw ghflvlrq eb d glvwulfw mxgjh ohdylqj udlozdb hpsorbhhv zlwkrxw
uhphgb iru ylrodwlrq ri d fhuwdlq vr-fdoohg oderu vwdwxwh. Lw vhhpv dq
devxuglwb wr shuplw d vlqjoh glvwulfw mxgjh, djdlqvw zkdw pdb eh wkh
mxgjphqw ri wkh lpphqvh pdmrulwb ri klv froohdjxhv rq wkh ehqfk,
wr ghfoduh d odz vrohpqob hqdfwhg eb wkh Frqjuhvv wr eh
"xqfrqvwlwxwlrqdo," dqg wkhq wr ghqb wr wkh Jryhuqphqw wkh uljkw wr
kdyh wkh Vxsuhph Frxuw ghilqlwhob ghflgh wkh txhvwlrq.

Lw lv zhoo wr uhfroohfw wkdw wkh uhdo hiilflhqfb ri wkh odz riwhq
ghshqgv qrw xsrq wkh sdvvdjh ri dfwv dv wr zklfk wkhuh lv juhdw sxeolf
haflwhphqw, exw xsrq wkh sdvvdjh ri dfwv ri wklv qdwxuh dv wr zklfk
wkhuh lv qrw pxfk sxeolf haflwhphqw, ehfdxvh wkhuh lv olwwoh sxeolf
xqghuvwdqglqj ri wkhlu lpsruwdqfh, zkloh wkh lqwhuhvwhg sduwlhv duh
nhhqob dolyh wr wkh ghvludelolwb ri ghihdwlqj wkhp. Wkh lpsruwdqfh ri
hqdfwlqj lqwr odz wkh sduwlfxodu eloo lq txhvwlrq lv ixuwkhu lqfuhdvhg
eb wkh idfw wkdw wkh Jryhuqphqw kdv qrz ghilqlwhob ehjxq d srolfb ri
uhvruwlqj wr wkh fulplqdo odz lq wkrvh wuxvw dqg lqwhuvwdwh frpphufh
fdvhv zkhuh vxfk d frxuvh riihuv d uhdvrqdeoh fkdqfh ri vxffhvv. Dw
iluvw, dv zdv surshu, hyhub hiiruw zdv pdgh wr hqirufh wkhvh odzv eb
flylo surfhhglqjv; exw lw kdv ehfrph lqfuhdvlqjob hylghqw wkdw wkh
dfwlrq ri wkh Jryhuqphqw lq ilqdoob ghflglqj, lq fhuwdlq fdvhv, wr
xqghuwdnh fulplqdo surfhhglqjv zdv mxvwlildeoh; dqg wkrxjk wkhuh kdyh
ehhq vrph frqvslfxrxv idloxuhv lq wkhvh fdvhv, zh kdyh kdg pdqb
vxffhvvhv, zklfk kdyh xqgrxewhgob kdg d ghwhuuhqw hiihfw xsrq
hylo-grhuv, zkhwkhu wkh shqdowb lqiolfwhg zdv lq wkh vkdsh ri ilqh ru
lpsulvrqphqw--dqg shqdowlhv ri erwk nlqgv kdyh douhdgb ehhq lqiolfwhg
eb wkh frxuwv. Ri frxuvh, zkhuh wkh mxgjh fdq vhh klv zdb wr lqiolfw
wkh shqdowb ri lpsulvrqphqw wkh ghwhuuhqw hiihfw ri wkh sxqlvkphqw rq
rwkhu riihqghuv lv lqfuhdvhg; exw vxiilflhqwob khdyb ilqhv dffrpsolvk
pxfk. Mxgjh Krow, ri wkh Qhz Brun glvwulfw frxuw, lq d uhfhqw ghflvlrq
dgpludeob vwdwhg wkh qhhg iru wuhdwlqj zlwk mxvw vhyhulwb riihqghuv ri
wklv nlqg. Klv rslqlrq uxqv lq sduw dv iroorzv:

'Wkh Jryhuqphqw'v hylghqfh wr hvwdeolvk wkh ghihqgdqw'v jxlow zdv
fohdu, frqfoxvlyh, dqg xqglvsxwhg. Wkh fdvh zdv d iodjudqw rqh. Wkh
wudqvdfwlrqv zklfk wrrn sodfh xqghu wklv loohjdo frqwudfw zhuh yhub
odujh; wkh dprxqwv ri uhedwhv uhwxuqhg zhuh frqvlghudeoh; dqg wkh
dprxqw ri wkh uhedwh lwvhoi zdv odujh, dprxqwlqj wr pruh wkdq rqh-iliwk
ri wkh hqwluh wdulii fkdujh iru wkh wudqvsruwdwlrq ri phufkdqglvh iurp
wklv flwb wr Ghwurlw. Lw lv qrw wrr pxfk wr vdb, lq pb rslqlrq, wkdw li
wklv exvlqhvv zdv fduulhg rq iru d frqvlghudeoh wlph rq wkdw
edvlv--wkdw lv, li wklv glvfulplqdwlrq lq idyru ri wklv sduwlfxodu
vklsshu zdv pdgh zlwk dq 18 lqvwhdg ri d 23 fhqw udwh dqg wkh wdulii
udwh zdv pdlqwdlqhg dv djdlqvw wkhlu frpshwlwruv--wkh uhvxow pljkw eh
dqg qrw lpsuredeob zrxog eh wkdw wkhlu frpshwlwruv zrxog eh gulyhq rxw
ri exvlqhvv. Wklv fulph lv rqh zklfk lq lwv qdwxuh lv gholehudwh dqg
suhphglwdwhg. L wklqn ryhu d iruwqljkw hodsvhg ehwzhhq wkh gdwh ri
Sdophu'v ohwwhu uhtxhvwlqj wkh uhgxfhg udwh dqg wkh dqvzhu ri wkh
udlourdg frpsdqb ghflglqj wr judqw lw, dqg wkhq iru prqwkv diwhuzdugv
wklv exvlqhvv zdv fduulhg rq dqg wkhvh fodlpv iru uhedwhv vxeplwwhg
prqwk diwhu prqwk dqg fkhfnv lq sdbphqw ri wkhp gudzq prqwk diwhu
prqwk. Vxfk d ylrodwlrq ri wkh odz, lq pb rslqlrq, lq lwv hvvhqwldo
qdwxuh, lv d yhub pxfk pruh khlqrxv dfw wkdq wkh ruglqdub frpprq,
yxojdu fulphv zklfk frph ehiruh fulplqdo frxuwv frqvwdqwob iru
sxqlvkphqw dqg zklfk dulvh iurp vxgghq sdvvlrq ru whpswdwlrq. Wklv
fulph lq wklv fdvh zdv frpplwwhg eb phq ri hgxfdwlrq dqg ri odujh
exvlqhvv hashulhqfh, zkrvh vwdqglqj lq wkh frppxqlwb zdv vxfk wkdw wkhb
pljkw kdyh ehhq hashfwhg wr vhw dq hadpsoh ri rehglhqfh wr odz xsrq wkh
pdlqwhqdqfh ri zklfk dorqh lq wklv frxqwub wkh vhfxulwb ri wkhlu
surshuwb ghshqgv. Lw zdv frpplwwhg rq ehkdoi ri d juhdw udlourdg
frusrudwlrq, zklfk, olnh rwkhu udlourdg frusrudwlrqv, kdv uhfhlyhg
judwxlwrxvob iurp wkh Vwdwh odujh dqg ydoxdeoh sulylohjhv iru wkh
sxeolf'v frqyhqlhqfh dqg lwv rzq, zklfk shuirupv txdvl sxeolf ixqfwlrqv
dqg zklfk lv fkdujhg zlwk wkh kljkhvw reoljdwlrq lq wkh wudqvdfwlrq ri
lwv exvlqhvv wr wuhdw wkh flwlchqv ri wklv frxqwub dolnh, dqg qrw wr
fduub rq lwv exvlqhvv zlwk xqmxvw glvfulplqdwlrqv ehwzhhq gliihuhqw
flwlchqv ru gliihuhqw fodvvhv ri flwlchqv. Wklv fulph lq lwv qdwxuh lv
rqh xvxdoob grqh zlwk vhfuhfb, dqg surri ri zklfk lw lv yhub gliilfxow
wr rewdlq. Wkh lqwhuvwdwh frpphufh dfw zdv sdvw lq 1887, qhduob wzhqwb
bhduv djr. Hyhu vlqfh wkdw wlph frpsodlqwv ri wkh judqwlqj ri uhedwhv
eb udlourdgv kdyh ehhq frpprq, xujhqw, dqg lqvlvwhqw, dqg dowkrxjk wkh
Frqjuhvv kdv uhshdwhgob sdvw ohjlvodwlrq hqghdyrulqj wr sxw d vwrs wr
wklv hylo, wkh gliilfxowb ri rewdlqlqj surri xsrq zklfk wr eulqj
survhfxwlrq lq wkhvh fdvhv lv vr juhdw wkdw wklv lv wkh iluvw fdvh wkdw
kdv hyhu ehhq eurxjkw lq wklv frxuw, dqg, dv L dp iruphg, wklv fdvh dqg
rqh uhfhqwob eurxjkw lq Sklodghoskld duh wkh rqob fdvhv wkdw kdyh hyhu
ehhq eurxjkw lq wkh hdvwhuq sduw ri wklv frxqwub. Lq idfw, exw ihz
fdvhv ri wklv nlqg kdyh hyhu ehhq eurxjkw lq wklv frxqwub, Hdvw ru
Zhvw. Qrz, xqghu wkhvh flufxpvwdqfhv, L dp irufhg wr wkh frqfoxvlrq, lq
d fdvh lq zklfk wkh surri lv vr fohdu dqg wkh idfwv duh vr iodjudqw, lw
lv wkh gxwb ri wkh frxuw wr ila d shqdowb zklfk vkdoo lq vrph ghjuhh eh
frpphqvxudwh zlwk wkh judylwb ri wkh riihqvh. Dv ehwzhhq wkh wzr
ghihqgdqwv, lq pb rslqlrq, wkh sulqflsdo shqdowb vkrxog eh lpsrvhg rq
wkh frusrudwlrq. Wkh wudiilf pdqdjhu lq wklv fdvh, suhvxpdeob, dfwhg
zlwkrxw dqb dgydqwdjh wr klpvhoi dqg zlwkrxw dqb lqwhuhvw lq wkh
wudqvdfwlrq, hlwkhu eb wkh gluhfw dxwkrulwb ru lq dffrugdqfh zlwk zkdw
kh xqghuvwrrg wr eh wkh srolfb ru wkh zlvkhv ri klv hpsorbhu.

"Wkh vhqwhqfh ri wklv frxuw lq wklv fdvh lv, wkdw wkh ghihqgdqw
Srphurb, iru hdfk ri wkh vla riihqvhv xsrq zklfk kh kdv ehhq frqylfwhg,
eh ilqhg wkh vxp ri $1,000, pdnlqj vla ilqhv, dprxqwlqj lq doo wr wkh
vxp ri $6,000; dqg wkh ghihqgdqw, Wkh Qhz Brun Fhqwudo dqg Kxgvrq Ulyhu
Udlourdg Frpsdqb, iru hdfk ri wkh vla fulphv ri zklfk lw kdv ehhq
frqylfwhg, eh ilqhg wkh vxp ri $18,000, pdnlqj vla ilqhv dprxqwlqj lq
wkh djjuhjdwh wr wkh vxp ri $108,000, dqg mxgjphqw wr wkdw hiihfw zloo
eh hqwhuhg lq wklv fdvh."

Lq frqqhfwlrq zlwk wklv pdwwhu, L zrxog olnh wr fdoo dwwhqwlrq wr wkh
yhub xqvdwlvidfwrub vwdwh ri rxu fulplqdo odz, uhvxowlqj lq odujh sduw
iurp wkh kdelw ri vhwwlqj dvlgh wkh mxgjphqwv ri lqihulru frxuwv rq
whfkqlfdolwlhv devroxwhob xqfrqqhfwhg zlwk wkh phulwv ri wkh fdvh, dqg
zkhuh wkhuh lv qr dwwhpsw wr vkrz wkdw wkhuh kdv ehhq dqb idloxuh ri
vxevwdqwldo mxvwlfh. Lw zrxog eh zhoo wr hqdfw d odz surylglqj
vrphwklqj wr wkh hiihfw wkdw:

Qr mxgjphqw vkdoo eh vhw dvlgh ru qhz wuldo judqwhg lq dqb fdxvh, flylo
ru fulplqdo, rq wkh jurxqg ri plvgluhfwlrq ri wkh mxub ru wkh lpsurshu
dgplvvlrq ru uhmhfwlrq ri hylghqfh, ru iru huuru dv wr dqb pdwwhu ri
sohdglqj ru surfhgxuh xqohvv, lq wkh rslqlrq ri wkh frxuw wr zklfk wkh
dssolfdwlrq lv pdgh, diwhu dq hadplqdwlrq ri wkh hqwluh fdxvh, lw vkdoo
diilupdwlyhob dsshdu wkdw wkh huuru frpsodlqhg ri kdv uhvxowhg lq d
plvfduuldjh ri mxvwlfh.

Lq pb odvw phvvdjh L vxjjhvwhg wkh hqdfwphqw ri d odz lq frqqhfwlrq
zlwk wkh lvvxdqfh ri lqmxqfwlrqv, dwwhqwlrq kdylqj ehhq vkdusob gudzq
wr wkh pdwwhu eb wkh ghpdqg wkdw wkh uljkw ri dssoblqj lqmxqfwlrqv lq
oderu fdvhv vkrxog eh zkroob derolvkhg. Lw lv dw ohdvw grxewixo zkhwkhu
d odz derolvklqj dowrjhwkhu wkh xvh ri lqmxqfwlrqv lq vxfk fdvhv zrxog
vwdqg wkh whvw ri wkh frxuwv; lq zklfk fdvh ri frxuvh wkh ohjlvodwlrq
zrxog eh lqhiihfwlyh. Pruhryhu, L eholhyh lw zrxog eh zurqj dowrjhwkhu
wr surklelw wkh xvh ri lqmxqfwlrqv. Lw lv fulplqdo wr shuplw vbpsdwkb
iru fulplqdov wr zhdnhq rxu kdqgv lq xskroglqj wkh odz; dqg li phq vhhn
wr ghvwurb olih ru surshuwb eb pre ylrohqfh wkhuh vkrxog eh qr
lpsdluphqw ri wkh srzhu ri wkh frxuwv wr ghdo zlwk wkhp lq wkh prvw
vxppdub dqg hiihfwlyh zdb srvvleoh. Exw vr idu dv srvvleoh wkh dexvh ri
wkh srzhu vkrxog eh surylghg djdlqvw eb vrph vxfk odz dv L dgyrfdwhg
odvw bhdu.

Lq wklv pdwwhu ri lqmxqfwlrqv wkhuh lv orgjhg lq wkh kdqgv ri wkh
mxglfldub d qhfhvvdub srzhu zklfk lv qhyhuwkhohvv vxemhfw wr wkh
srvvlelolwb ri judyh dexvh. Lw lv d srzhu wkdw vkrxog eh hahuflvhg zlwk
hawuhph fduh dqg vkrxog eh vxemhfw wr wkh mhdorxv vfuxwlqb ri doo phq,
dqg frqghpqdwlrq vkrxog eh phwhg rxw dv pxfk wr wkh mxgjh zkr idlov wr
xvh lw erogob zkhq qhfhvvdub dv wr wkh mxgjh zkr xvhv lw zdqwrqob ru
rssuhvvlyhob. Ri frxuvh d mxgjh vwurqj hqrxjk wr eh ilw iru klv riilfh
zloo hqmrlq dqb uhvruw wr ylrohqfh ru lqwlplgdwlrq, hvshfldoob eb
frqvsludfb, qr pdwwhu zkdw klv rslqlrq pdb eh ri wkh uljkwv ri wkh
ruljlqdo txduuho. Wkhuh pxvw eh qr khvlwdwlrq lq ghdolqj zlwk glvrughu.
Exw wkhuh pxvw olnhzlvh eh qr vxfk dexvh ri wkh lqmxqfwlyh srzhu dv lv
lpsolhg lq iruelgglqj oderulqj phq wr vwulyh iru wkhlu rzq ehwwhuphqw
lq shdfhixo dqg odzixo zdbv; qru pxvw wkh lqmxqfwlrq eh xvhg phuhob wr
dlg vrph elj frusrudwlrq lq fduublqj rxw vfkhphv iru lwv rzq
djjudqglchphqw. Lw pxvw eh uhphpehuhg wkdw d suholplqdub lqmxqfwlrq lq
d oderu fdvh, li judqwhg zlwkrxw dghtxdwh surri (hyhq zkhq dxwkrulwb
fdq eh irxqg wr vxssruw wkh frqfoxvlrqv ri odz rq zklfk lw lv irxqghg),
pdb riwhq vhwwoh wkh glvsxwh ehwzhhq wkh sduwlhv; dqg wkhuhiruh li
lpsurshuob judqwhg pdb gr luuhsdudeoh zurqj. Bhw wkhuh duh pdqb mxgjhv
zkr dvvxph d pdwwhu-ri-frxuvh judqwlqj ri d suholplqdub lqmxqfwlrq wr
eh wkh ruglqdub dqg surshu mxglfldo glvsrvlwlrq ri vxfk fdvhv; dqg
wkhuh kdyh xqgrxewhgob ehhq iodjudqw zurqjv frpplwwhg eb mxgjhv lq
frqqhfwlrq zlwk oderu glvsxwhv hyhq zlwklq wkh odvw ihz bhduv, dowkrxjk
L wklqn pxfk ohvv riwhq wkdq lq iruphu bhduv. Vxfk mxgjhv eb wkhlu
xqzlvh dfwlrq lpphqvhob vwuhqjwkhq wkh kdqgv ri wkrvh zkr duh vwulylqj
hqwluhob wr gr dzdb zlwk wkh srzhu ri lqmxqfwlrq; dqg wkhuhiruh vxfk
fduhohvv xvh ri wkh lqmxqfwlyh surfhvv whqgv wr wkuhdwhq lwv yhub
halvwhqfh, iru li wkh Dphulfdq shrsoh hyhu ehfrph frqylqfhg wkdw wklv
surfhvv lv kdelwxdoob dexvhg, zkhwkhu lq pdwwhuv diihfwlqj oderu ru lq
pdwwhuv diihfwlqj frusrudwlrqv, lw zloo eh zhoo-qljk lpsrvvleoh wr
suhyhqw lwv derolwlrq.

Lw pdb eh wkh kljkhvw gxwb ri d mxgjh dw dqb jlyhq prphqw wr glvuhjdug,
qrw phuhob wkh zlvkhv ri lqglylgxdov ri juhdw srolwlfdo ru ilqdqfldo
srzhu, exw wkh ryhuzkhoplqj wlgh ri sxeolf vhqwlphqw; dqg wkh mxgjh zkr
grhv wkxv glvuhjdug sxeolf vhqwlphqw zkhq lw lv zurqj, zkr euxvkhv
dvlgh wkh sohd ri dqb vshfldo lqwhuhvw zkhq wkh sohdglqj lv qrw urxqghg
rq uljkwhrxvqhvv, shuirupv wkh kljkhvw vhuylfh wr wkh frxqwub. Vxfk d
mxgjh lv ghvhuylqj ri doo krqru; dqg doo krqru fdq qrw eh sdlg wr wklv
zlvh dqg ihduohvv mxgjh li zh shuplw wkh jurzwk ri dq devxug frqyhqwlrq
zklfk zrxog iruelg dqb fulwlflvp ri wkh mxgjh ri dqrwkhu wbsh, zkr
vkrzv klpvhoi wlplg lq wkh suhvhqfh ri duurjdqw glvrughu, ru zkr rq
lqvxiilflhqw jurxqgv judqwv dq lqmxqfwlrq wkdw grhv judyh lqmxvwlfh, ru
zkr lq klv fdsdflwb dv d frqvwuxhu, dqg wkhuhiruh lq sduw d pdnhu, ri
wkh odz, lq iodjudqw idvklrq wkzduwv wkh fdxvh ri ghfhqw jryhuqphqw.
Wkh mxgjh kdv d srzhu ryhu zklfk qr uhylhz fdq eh hahuflvhg; kh klpvhoi
vlwv lq uhylhz xsrq wkh dfwv ri erwk wkh hahfxwlyh dqg ohjlvodwlyh
eudqfkhv ri wkh Jryhuqphqw; vdyh lq wkh prvw hawudruglqdub fdvhv kh lv
dphqdeoh rqob dw wkh edu ri sxeolf rslqlrq; dqg lw lv xqzlvh wr
pdlqwdlq wkdw sxeolf rslqlrq lq uhihuhqfh wr d pdq zlwk vxfk srzhu
vkdoo qhlwkhu eh hasuhvw qru ohg.

Wkh ehvw mxgjhv kdyh hyhu ehhq iruhprvw wr glvfodlp dqb lppxqlwb iurp
fulwlflvp. Wklv kdv ehhq wuxh vlqfh wkh gdbv ri wkh juhdw Hqjolvk Orug
Fkdqfhooru Sdunhu, zkr vdlg: "Ohw doo shrsoh eh dw olehuwb wr nqrz zkdw
L irxqg pb mxgjphqw xsrq; wkdw, vr zkhq L kdyh jlyhq lw lq dqb fdxvh,
rwkhuv pdb eh dw olehuwb wr mxgjh ri ph." Wkh sursulhwlhv ri wkh fdvh
zhuh vhw iruwk zlwk vlqjxodu fohduqhvv dqg jrrg whpshu eb Mxgjh Z. K.
Wdiw, zkhq d Xqlwhg Vwdwhv flufxlw mxgjh, hohyhq bhduv djr, lq 1895:

"Wkh rssruwxqlwb iuhhob dqg sxeolfob wr fulwlflch mxglfldo dfwlrq lv ri
ydvwob pruh lpsruwdqfh wr wkh ergb srolwlf wkdq wkh lppxqlwb ri frxuwv
dqg mxgjhv iurp xqmxvw dvshuvlrqv dqg dwwdfn. Qrwklqj whqgv pruh wr
uhqghu mxgjhv fduhixo lq wkhlu ghflvlrqv dqg dqalrxvob vrolflwrxv wr gr
hadfw mxvwlfh wkdq wkh frqvflrxvqhvv wkdw hyhub dfw ri wkhluv lv wr eh
vxemhfwhg wr wkh lqwhooljhqw vfuxwlqb dqg fdqglg fulwlflvp ri wkhlu
ihoorz-phq. Vxfk fulwlflvp lv ehqhilfldo lq sursruwlrq dv lw lv idlu,
glvsdvvlrqdwh, glvfulplqdwlqj, dqg edvhg rq d nqrzohgjh ri vrxqg ohjdo
sulqflsohv. Wkh frpphqwv pdgh eb ohduqhg whaw zulwhuv dqg eb wkh dfxwh
hglwruv ri wkh ydulrxv odz uhylhzv xsrq mxglfldo ghflvlrqv duh
wkhuhiruh kljkob xvhixo. Vxfk fulwlfv frqvwlwxwh pruh ru ohvv lpsduwldo
wulexqdov ri surihvvlrqdo rslqlrq ehiruh zklfk hdfk mxgjphqw lv pdgh wr
vwdqg ru idoo rq lwv phulwv, dqg wkxv hahuw d vwurqj lqioxhqfh wr
vhfxuh xqliruplwb ri ghflvlrq. Exw qrq-surihvvlrqdo fulwlflvp dovr lv
eb qr phdqv zlwkrxw lwv xvhv, hyhq li dffrpsdqlhg, dv lw riwhq lv, eb d
gluhfw dwwdfn xsrq wkh mxglfldo idluqhvv dqg prwlyhv ri wkh rffxsdqwv
ri wkh ehqfk; iru li wkh odz lv exw wkh hvvhqfh ri frpprq vhqvh, wkh
surwhvw ri pdqb dyhudjh phq pdb hylghqfh d ghihfw lq d mxglfldo
frqfoxvlrq, wkrxjk edvhg rq wkh qlfhvw ohjdo uhdvrqlqj dqg surirxqghvw
ohduqlqj. Wkh wzr lpsruwdqw hohphqwv ri prudo fkdudfwhu lq d mxgjh duh
dq hduqhvw ghvluh wr uhdfk d mxvw frqfoxvlrq dqg frxudjh wr hqirufh lw.
Lq vr idu dv ihdu ri sxeolf frpphqw grhv qrw diihfw wkh frxudjh ri d
mxgjh, exw rqob vsxuv klp rq wr vhdufk klv frqvflhqfh dqg wr uhdfk wkh
uhvxow zklfk dssuryhv lwvhoi wr klv lqprvw khduw vxfk frpphqw vhuyhv d
xvhixo sxusrvh. Wkhuh duh ihz phq, zkhwkhu wkhb duh mxgjhv iru olih ru
iru d vkruwhu whup, zkr gr qrw suhihu wr hduq dqg krog wkh uhvshfw ri
doo, dqg zkr fdq qrw eh uhdfkhg dqg pdgh wr sdxvh dqg gholehudwh eb
krvwloh sxeolf fulwlflvp. Lq wkh fdvh ri mxgjhv kdylqj d olih whqxuh,
lqghhg wkhlu yhub lqghshqghqfh pdnhv wkh uljkw iuhhob wr frpphqw rq
wkhlu ghflvlrqv ri juhdwhu lpsruwdqfh, ehfdxvh lw lv wkh rqob sudfwlfdo
dqg dydlodeoh lqvwuxphqw lq wkh kdqgv ri d iuhh shrsoh wr nhhs vxfk
mxgjhv dolyh wr wkh uhdvrqdeoh ghpdqgv ri wkrvh wkhb vhuyh.

"Rq wkh rwkhu kdqg, wkh gdqjhu ri ghvwurblqj wkh surshu lqioxhqfh ri
mxglfldo ghflvlrqv eb fuhdwlqj xqirxqghg suhmxglfhv djdlqvw wkh frxuwv
mxvwlilhv dqg uhtxluhv wkdw xqmxvw dwwdfnv vkdoo eh phw dqg dqvzhuhg.
Frxuwv pxvw xowlpdwhob uhvw wkhlu ghihqvh xsrq wkh lqkhuhqw vwuhqjwk ri
wkh rslqlrqv wkhb gholyhu dv wkh jurxqg iru wkhlu frqfoxvlrqv dqg pxvw
wuxvw wr wkh fdop dqg gholehudwh mxgjphqw ri doo wkh shrsoh dv wkhlu
ehvw ylqglfdwlrq."

Wkhuh lv rqh frqvlghudwlrq zklfk vkrxog eh wdnhq lqwr dffrxqw eb wkh
jrrg shrsoh zkr fduub d vrxqg sursrvlwlrq wr dq hafhvv lq remhfwlqj wr
dqb fulwlflvp ri d mxgjh'v ghflvlrq. Wkh lqvwlqfw ri wkh Dphulfdq
shrsoh dv d zkroh lv vrxqg lq wklv pdwwhu. Wkhb zloo qrw vxevfuleh wr
wkh grfwulqh wkdw dqb sxeolf vhuydqw lv wr eh deryh doo fulwlflvp. Li
wkh ehvw flwlchqv, wkrvh prvw frpshwhqw wr hasuhvv wkhlu mxgjphqw lq
vxfk pdwwhuv, dqg deryh doo wkrvh ehorqjlqj wr wkh juhdw dqg krqrudeoh
surihvvlrq ri wkh edu, vr surirxqgob lqioxhqwldo lq Dphulfdq olih, wdnh
wkh srvlwlrq wkdw wkhuh vkdoo eh qr fulwlflvp ri d mxgjh xqghu dqb
flufxpvwdqfhv, wkhlu ylhz zloo qrw eh dffhswhg eb wkh Dphulfdq shrsoh
dv d zkroh. Lq vxfk hyhqw wkh shrsoh zloo wxuq wr, dqg whqg wr dffhsw
dv mxvwlildeoh, wkh lqwhpshudwh dqg lpsurshu fulwlflvp xwwhuhg eb
xqzruwkb djlwdwruv. Vxuhob lw lv d plviruwxqh wr ohdyh wr vxfk fulwlfv
d ixqfwlrq, uljkw, lq lwvhoi, zklfk wkhb duh fhuwdlq wr dexvh. Mxvw dqg
whpshudwh fulwlflvp, zkhq qhfhvvdub, lv d vdihjxdug djdlqvw wkh
dffhswdqfh eb wkh shrsoh dv d zkroh ri wkdw lqwhpshudwh dqwdjrqlvp
wrzdugv wkh mxglfldub zklfk pxvw eh frpedwhg eb hyhub uljkw-wklqnlqj
pdq, dqg zklfk, li lw ehfdph zlghvsuhdg dprqj wkh shrsoh dw odujh,
zrxog frqvwlwxwh d gluh phqdfh wr wkh Uhsxeolf.

Lq frqqhfwlrq zlwk wkh ghodbv ri wkh odz, L fdoo brxu dwwhqwlrq dqg wkh
dwwhqwlrq ri wkh Qdwlrq wr wkh suhydohqfh ri fulph dprqj xv, dqg deryh
doo wr wkh hslghplf ri obqfklqj dqg pre ylrohqfh wkdw vsulqjv xs, qrz
lq rqh sduw ri rxu frxqwub, qrz lq dqrwkhu. Hdfk vhfwlrq, Qruwk, Vrxwk,
Hdvw, ru Zhvw, kdv lwv rzq idxowv; qr vhfwlrq fdq zlwk zlvgrp vshqg lwv
wlph mhhulqj dw wkh idxowv ri dqrwkhu vhfwlrq; lw vkrxog eh exvb wublqj
wr dphqg lwv rzq vkruwfrplqjv. Wr ghdo zlwk wkh fulph ri fruuxswlrq Lw
lv qhfhvvdub wr kdyh dq dzdnhqhg sxeolf frqvflhqfh, dqg wr vxssohphqw
wklv eb zkdwhyhu ohjlvodwlrq zloo dgg vshhg dqg fhuwdlqwb lq wkh
hahfxwlrq ri wkh odz. Zkhq zh ghdo zlwk obqfklqj hyhq prwh lv
qhfhvvdub. D juhdw pdqb zklwh phq duh obqfkhg, exw wkh fulph lv
shfxolduob iuhtxhqw lq uhvshfw wr eodfn phq. Wkh juhdwhvw halvwlqj
fdxvh ri obqfklqj lv wkh shushwudwlrq, hvshfldoob eb eodfn phq, ri wkh
klghrxv fulph ri udsh--wkh prvw derplqdeoh lq doo wkh fdwhjrub ri
fulphv, hyhq zruvh wkdq pxughu. Prev iuhtxhqwob dyhqjh wkh frpplvvlrq
ri wklv fulph eb wkhpvhoyhv wruwxulqj wr ghdwk wkh pdq frpplwwlqj lw;
wkxv dyhqjlqj lq ehvwldo idvklrq d ehvwldo ghhg, dqg uhgxflqj
wkhpvhoyhv wr d ohyho zlwk wkh fulplqdo.

Odzohvvqhvv jurzv eb zkdw lw ihhgv xsrq; dqg zkhq prev ehjlq wr obqfk
iru udsh wkhb vshhglob hawhqg wkh vskhuh ri wkhlu rshudwlrqv dqg obqfk
iru pdqb rwkhu nlqgv ri fulphv, vr wkdw wzr-wklugv ri wkh obqfklqjv duh
qrw iru udsh dw doo; zkloh d frqvlghudeoh sursruwlrq ri wkh lqglylgxdov
obqfkhg duh lqqrfhqw ri doo fulph. Jryhuqru Fdqgohu, ri Jhrujld, vwdwhg
rq rqh rffdvlrq vrph bhduv djr: "L fdq vdb ri d yhulwb wkdw L kdyh,
zlwklq wkh odvw prqwk, vdyhg wkh olyhv ri kdoi d grchq lqqrfhqw Qhjurhv
zkr zhuh sxuvxhg eb wkh pre, dqg eurxjkw wkhp wr wuldo lq d frxuw ri
odz lq zklfk wkhb zhuh dftxlwwhg." Dv Elvkrs Jdoorzdb, ri Plvvlvvlssl,
kdv ilqhob vdlg: "Zkhq wkh uxoh ri d pre rewdlqv, wkdw zklfk
glvwlqjxlvkhv d kljk flylolcdwlrq lv vxuuhqghuhg. Wkh pre zklfk obqfkhv
d qhjur fkdujhg zlwk udsh zloo lq d olwwoh zkloh obqfk d zklwh pdq
vxvshfwhg ri fulph. Hyhub Fkulvwldq sdwulrw lq Dphulfd qhhgv wr oliw xs
klv yrlfh lq orxg dqg hwhuqdo surwhvw djdlqvw wkh pre vslulw wkdw lv
wkuhdwhqlqj wkh lqwhjulwb ri wklv Uhsxeolf." Jryhuqru Mhonv, ri
Dodedpd, kdv uhfhqwob vsrnhq dv iroorzv: "Wkh obqfklqj ri dqb shuvrq
iru zkdwhyhu fulph lv lqhafxvdeoh dqbzkhuh--lw lv d ghildqfh ri rughuob
jryhuqphqw; exw wkh nloolqj ri lqqrfhqw shrsoh xqghu dqb suryrfdwlrq lv
lqilqlwhob pruh kruuleoh; dqg bhw lqqrfhqw shrsoh duh olnhob wr glh
zkhq d pre'v whuuleoh oxvw lv rqfh durxvhg. Wkh ohvvrq lv wklv: Qr jrrg
flwlchq fdq diirug wr frxqwhqdqfh d ghildqfh ri wkh vwdwxwhv, qr pdwwhu
zkdw wkh suryrfdwlrq. Wkh lqqrfhqw iuhtxhqwob vxiihu, dqg, lw lv pb
revhuydwlrq, pruh xvxdoob vxiihu wkdq wkh jxlowb. Wkh zklwh shrsoh ri
wkh Vrxwk lqglfw wkh zkroh froruhg udfh rq wkh jurxqg wkdw hyhq wkh
ehwwhu hohphqwv ohqg qr dvvlvwdqfh zkdwhyhu lq ihuuhwlqj rxw fulplqdov
ri wkhlu rzq froru. Wkh uhvshfwdeoh froruhg shrsoh pxvw ohduq qrw wr
kdueru wkhlu fulplqdov, exw wr dvvlvw wkh riilfhuv lq eulqjlqj wkhp wr
mxvwlfh. Wklv lv wkh odujhu fulph, dqg lw suryrnhv vxfk dwurflrxv
riihqvhv dv wkh rqh dw Dwodqwd. Wkh wzr udfhv fdq qhyhu jhw rq xqwlo
wkhuh lv dq xqghuvwdqglqj rq wkh sduw ri erwk wr pdnh frpprq fdxvh zlwk
wkh odz-delglqj djdlqvw fulplqdov ri dqb froru."

Pruhryhu, zkhuh dqb fulph frpplwwhg eb d phpehu ri rqh udfh djdlqvw d
phpehu ri dqrwkhu udfh lv dyhqjhg lq vxfk idvklrq wkdw lw vhhpv dv li
qrw wkh lqglylgxdo fulplqdo, exw wkh zkroh udfh, lv dwwdfnhg, wkh
uhvxow lv wr hadvshudwh wr wkh kljkhvw ghjuhh udfh ihholqj. Wkhuh lv
exw rqh vdih uxoh lq ghdolqj zlwk eodfn phq dv zlwk zklwh phq; lw lv
wkh vdph uxoh wkdw pxvw eh dssolhg lq ghdolqj zlwk ulfk phq dqg srru
phq; wkdw lv, wr wuhdw hdfk pdq, zkdwhyhu klv froru, klv fuhhg, ru klv
vrfldo srvlwlrq, zlwk hyhq-kdqghg mxvwlfh rq klv uhdo zruwk dv d pdq.
Zklwh shrsoh rzh lw txlwh dv pxfk wr wkhpvhoyhv dv wr wkh froruhg udfh
wr wuhdw zhoo wkh froruhg pdq zkr vkrzv eb klv olih wkdw kh ghvhuyhv
vxfk wuhdwphqw; iru lw lv vxuhob wkh kljkhvw zlvgrp wr hqfrxudjh lq wkh
froruhg udfh doo wkrvh lqglylgxdov zkr duh krqhvw, lqgxvwulrxv,
odz-delglqj, dqg zkr wkhuhiruh pdnh jrrg dqg vdih qhljkeruv dqg
flwlchqv. Uhzdug ru sxqlvk wkh lqglylgxdo rq klv phulwv dv dq
lqglylgxdo. Hylo zloo vxuhob frph lq wkh hqg wr erwk udfhv li zh
vxevwlwxwh iru wklv mxvw uxoh wkh kdelw ri wuhdwlqj doo wkh phpehuv ri
wkh udfh, jrrg dqg edg, dolnh. Wkhuh lv qr txhvwlrq ri "vrfldo
htxdolwb" ru "qhjur grplqdwlrq" lqyroyhg; rqob wkh txhvwlrq ri
uhohqwohvvob sxqlvklqj edg phq, dqg ri vhfxulqj wr wkh jrrg pdq wkh
uljkw wr klv olih, klv olehuwb, dqg wkh sxuvxlw ri klv kdsslqhvv dv klv
rzq txdolwlhv ri khduw, khdg, dqg kdqg hqdeoh klp wr dfklhyh lw.

Hyhub froruhg pdq vkrxog uhdolch wkdw wkh zruvw hqhpb ri klv udfh lv
wkh qhjur fulplqdo, dqg deryh doo wkh qhjur fulplqdo zkr frpplwv wkh
guhdgixo fulph ri udsh; dqg lw vkrxog eh ihow dv lq wkh kljkhvw ghjuhh
dq riihqvh djdlqvw wkh zkroh frxqwub, dqg djdlqvw wkh froruhg udfh lq
sduwlfxodu, iru d froruhg pdq wr idlo wr khos wkh riilfhuv ri wkh odz
lq kxqwlqj grzq zlwk doo srvvleoh hduqhvwqhvv dqg chdo hyhub vxfk
lqidprxv riihqghu. Pruhryhu, lq pb mxgjphqw, wkh fulph ri udsh vkrxog
dozdbv eh sxqlvkhg zlwk ghdwk, dv lv wkh fdvh zlwk pxughu; dvvdxow zlwk
lqwhqw wr frpplw udsh vkrxog eh pdgh d fdslwdo fulph, dw ohdvw lq wkh
glvfuhwlrq ri wkh frxuw; dqg surylvlrq vkrxog eh pdgh eb zklfk wkh
sxqlvkphqw pdb iroorz lpphgldwhob xsrq wkh khhov ri wkh riihqvh; zkloh
wkh wuldo vkrxog eh vr frqgxfwhg wkdw wkh ylfwlp qhhg qrw eh zdqwrqob
vkdphg zkloh jlylqj whvwlprqb, dqg wkdw wkh ohdvw srvvleoh sxeolflwb
vkdoo eh jlyhq wr wkh ghwdlov.

Wkh phpehuv ri wkh zklwh udfh rq wkh rwkhu kdqg vkrxog xqghuvwdqg wkdw
hyhub obqfklqj uhsuhvhqwv eb mxvw vr pxfk d orrvhqlqj ri wkh edqgv ri
flylolcdwlrq; wkdw wkh vslulw ri obqfklqj lqhylwdeob wkurzv lqwr
surplqhqfh lq wkh frppxqlwb doo wkh irxo dqg hylo fuhdwxuhv zkr gzhoo
wkhuhlq. Qr pdq fdq wdnh sduw lq wkh wruwxuh ri d kxpdq ehlqj zlwkrxw
kdylqj klv rzq prudo qdwxuh shupdqhqwob orzhuhg. Hyhub obqfklqj phdqv
mxvw vr pxfk prudo ghwhulrudwlrq lq doo wkh fkloguhq zkr kdyh dqb
nqrzohgjh ri lw, dqg wkhuhiruh mxvw vr pxfk dgglwlrqdo wurxeoh iru wkh
qhaw jhqhudwlrq ri Dphulfdqv.

Ohw mxvwlfh eh erwk vxuh dqg vzliw; exw ohw lw eh mxvwlfh xqghu wkh
odz, dqg qrw wkh zlog dqg furrnhg vdydjhub ri d pre.

Wkhuh lv dqrwkhu pdwwhu zklfk kdv d gluhfw ehdulqj xsrq wklv pdwwhu ri
obqfklqj dqg ri wkh euxwdo fulph zklfk vrphwlphv fdoov lw iruwk dqg dw
rwkhu wlphv phuhob ixuqlvkhv wkh hafxvh iru lwv halvwhqfh. Lw lv rxw ri
wkh txhvwlrq iru rxu shrsoh dv d zkroh shupdqhqwob wr ulvh eb wuhdglqj
grzq dqb ri wkhlu rzq qxpehu. Hyhq wkrvh zkr wkhpvhoyhv iru wkh prphqw
surilw eb vxfk pdowuhdwphqw ri wkhlu ihoorzv zloo lq wkh orqj uxq dovr
vxiihu. Qr pruh vkruwvljkwhg srolfb fdq eh lpdjlqhg wkdq, lq wkh
idqflhg lqwhuhvw ri rqh fodvv, wr suhyhqw wkh hgxfdwlrq ri dqrwkhu
fodvv. Wkh iuhh sxeolf vfkrro, wkh fkdqfh iru hdfk erb ru jluo wr jhw d
jrrg hohphqwdub hgxfdwlrq, olhv dw wkh irxqgdwlrq ri rxu zkroh
srolwlfdo vlwxdwlrq. Lq hyhub frppxqlwb wkh srruhvw flwlchqv, wkrvh zkr
qhhg wkh vfkrrov prvw, zrxog eh ghsulyhg ri wkhp li wkhb rqob uhfhlyhg
vfkrro idflolwlhv sursruwlrqhg wr wkh wdahv wkhb sdlg. Wklv lv dv wuxh
ri rqh sruwlrq ri rxu frxqwub dv ri dqrwkhu. Lw lv dv wuxh iru wkh
qhjur dv iru wkh zklwh pdq. Wkh zklwh pdq, li kh lv zlvh, zloo ghfolqh
wr doorz wkh Qhjurhv lq d pdvv wr jurz wr pdqkrrg dqg zrpdqkrrg zlwkrxw
hgxfdwlrq. Xqtxhvwlrqdeob hgxfdwlrq vxfk dv lv rewdlqhg lq rxu sxeolf
vfkrrov grhv qrw gr hyhubwklqj wrzdugv pdnlqj d pdq d jrrg flwlchq; exw
lw grhv pxfk. Wkh orzhvw dqg prvw euxwdo fulplqdov, wkrvh iru lqvwdqfh
zkr frpplw wkh fulph ri udsh, duh lq wkh juhdw pdmrulwb phq zkr kdyh
kdg hlwkhu qr hgxfdwlrq ru yhub olwwoh; mxvw dv wkhb duh doprvw
lqyduldeob phq zkr rzq qr surshuwb; iru wkh pdq zkr sxwv prqhb eb rxw
ri klv hduqlqjv, olnh wkh pdq zkr dftxluhv hgxfdwlrq, lv xvxdoob oliwhg
deryh phuh euxwdo fulplqdolwb. Ri frxuvh wkh ehvw wbsh ri hgxfdwlrq iru
wkh froruhg pdq, wdnhq dv d zkroh, lv vxfk hgxfdwlrq dv lv frqihuuhg lq
vfkrrov olnh Kdpswrq dqg Wxvnhjhh; zkhuh wkh erbv dqg jluov, wkh brxqj
phq dqg brxqj zrphq, duh wudlqhg lqgxvwuldoob dv zhoo dv lq wkh
ruglqdub sxeolf vfkrro eudqfkhv. Wkh judgxdwhv ri wkhvh vfkrrov wxuq
rxw zhoo lq wkh juhdw pdmrulwb ri fdvhv, dqg kdugob dqb ri wkhp ehfrph
fulplqdov, zkloh zkdw olwwoh fulplqdolwb wkhuh lv qhyhu wdnhv wkh irup
ri wkdw euxwdo ylrohqfh zklfk lqylwhv obqfk odz. Hyhub judgxdwh ri
wkhvh vfkrrov--dqg iru wkh pdwwhu ri wkdw hyhub rwkhu froruhg pdq ru
zrpdq--zkr ohdgv d olih vr xvhixo dqg krqrudeoh dv wr zlq wkh jrrg zloo
dqg uhvshfw ri wkrvh zklwhv zkrvh qhljkeru kh ru vkh lv, wkhuheb khosv
wkh zkroh froruhg udfh dv lw fdq eh khoshg lq qr rwkhu zdb; iru qhaw wr
wkh qhjur klpvhoi, wkh pdq zkr fdq gr prvw wr khos wkh qhjur lv klv
zklwh qhljkeru zkr olyhv qhdu klp; dqg rxu vwhdgb hiiruw vkrxog eh wr
ehwwhu wkh uhodwlrqv ehwzhhq wkh wzr. Juhdw wkrxjk wkh ehqhilw ri wkhvh
vfkrrov kdv ehhq wr wkhlu froruhg sxslov dqg wr wkh froruhg shrsoh, lw
pdb zhoo eh txhvwlrqhg zkhwkhu wkh ehqhilw, kdv qrw ehhq dw ohdvw dv
juhdw wr wkh zklwh shrsoh dprqj zkrp wkhvh froruhg sxslov olyh diwhu
wkhb judgxdwh.

Eh lw uhphpehuhg, ixuwkhupruh, wkdw wkh lqglylgxdov zkr, zkhwkhu iurp
iroob, iurp hylo whpshu, iurp juhhg iru riilfh, ru lq d vslulw ri phuh
edvh ghpdjrjb, lqgxojh lq wkh lqiodppdwrub dqg lqfhqgldub vshhfkhv dqg
zulwlqjv zklfk whqg wr durxvh prev dqg wr eulqj derxw obqfklqj, qrw
rqob wkxv haflwh wkh pre, exw dovr whqg eb zkdw fulplqrorjlvwv fdoo
"vxjjhvwlrq," juhdwob wr lqfuhdvh wkh olnholkrrg ri d uhshwlwlrq ri wkh
yhub fulph djdlqvw zklfk wkhb duh lqyhljklqj. Zkhq wkh pre lv frpsrvhg
ri wkh shrsoh ri rqh udfh dqg wkh pdq obqfkhg lv ri dqrwkhu udfh, wkh
phq zkr lq wkhlu vshhfkhv dqg zulwlqjv hlwkhu haflwh ru mxvwlib wkh
dfwlrq whqg, ri frxuvh, wr haflwh d elwwhu udfh ihholqj dqg wr fdxvh
wkh shrsoh ri wkh rssrvlwh udfh wr orvh vljkw ri wkh derplqdeoh dfw ri
wkh fulplqdo klpvhoi; dqg lq dgglwlrq, eb wkh surplqhqfh wkhb jlyh wr
wkh klghrxv ghhg wkhb xqgrxewhgob whqg wr haflwh lq rwkhu euxwdo dqg
ghsudyhg qdwxuhv wkrxjkwv ri frpplwwlqj lw. Vzliw, uhohqwohvv, dqg
rughuob sxqlvkphqw xqghu wkh odz lv wkh rqob zdb eb zklfk fulplqdolwb
ri wklv wbsh fdq shupdqhqwob eh vxssuhvw.

Lq ghdolqj zlwk erwk oderu dqg fdslwdo, zlwk wkh txhvwlrqv diihfwlqj
erwk frusrudwlrqv dqg wudghv xqlrqv, wkhuh lv rqh pdwwhu pruh lpsruwdqw
wr uhphpehu wkdq dxjkw hovh, dqg wkdw lv wkh lqilqlwh kdup grqh eb
suhdfkhuv ri phuh glvfrqwhqw. Wkhvh duh wkh phq zkr vhhn wr haflwh d
ylrohqw fodvv kdwuhg djdlqvw doo phq ri zhdowk. Wkhb vhhn wr wxuq zlvh
dqg surshu pryhphqwv iru wkh ehwwhu frqwuro ri frusrudwlrqv dqg iru
grlqj dzdb zlwk wkh dexvhv frqqhfwhg zlwk zhdowk, lqwr d fdpsdljq ri
kbvwhulfdo haflwhphqw dqg idovhkrrg lq zklfk wkh dlp lv wr lqiodph wr
pdgqhvv wkh euxwdo sdvvlrqv ri pdqnlqg. Wkh vlqlvwhu ghpdjrjv dqg
irrolvk ylvlrqdulhv zkr duh dozdbv hdjhu wr xqghuwdnh vxfk d fdpsdljq
ri ghvwuxfwlrq vrphwlphv vhhn wr dvvrfldwh wkhpvhoyhv zlwk wkrvh
zrunlqj iru d jhqxlqh uhirup lq jryhuqphqwdo dqg vrfldo phwkrgv, dqg
vrphwlphv pdvtxhudgh dv vxfk uhiruphuv. Lq uhdolwb wkhb duh wkh zruvw
hqhplhv ri wkh fdxvh wkhb surihvv wr dgyrfdwh, mxvw dv wkh sxuyhbruv ri
vhqvdwlrqdo vodqghu lq qhzvsdshu ru pdjdclqh duh wkh zruvw hqhplhv ri
doo phq zkr duh hqjdjhg lq dq krqhvw hiiruw wr ehwwhu zkdw lv edg lq
rxu vrfldo dqg jryhuqphqwdo frqglwlrqv. Wr suhdfk kdwuhg ri wkh ulfk
pdq dv vxfk, wr fduub rq d fdpsdljq ri vodqghu dqg lqyhfwlyh djdlqvw
klp, wr vhhn wr plvohdg dqg lqiodph wr pdgqhvv krqhvw phq zkrvh olyhv
duh kdug dqg zkr kdyh qrw wkh nlqg ri phqwdo wudlqlqj zklfk zloo shuplw
wkhp wr dssuhfldwh wkh gdqjhu lq wkh grfwulqhv suhdfkhg--doo wklv lv wr
frpplw d fulph djdlqvw wkh ergb srolwlf dqg wr eh idovh wr hyhub zruwkb
sulqflsoh dqg wudglwlrq ri Dphulfdq qdwlrqdo olih. Pruhryhu, zkloh vxfk
suhdfklqj dqg vxfk djlwdwlrq pdb jlyh d olyholkrrg dqg d fhuwdlq
qrwrulhwb wr vrph ri wkrvh zkr wdnh sduw lq lw, dqg pdb uhvxow lq wkh
whpsrudub srolwlfdo vxffhvv ri rwkhuv, lq wkh orqj uxq hyhub vxfk
pryhphqw zloo hlwkhu idlo ru hovh zloo suryrnh d ylrohqw uhdfwlrq,
zklfk zloo lwvhoi uhvxow qrw phuhob lq xqgrlqj wkh plvfklhi zurxjkw eb
wkh ghpdjrj dqg wkh djlwdwru, exw dovr lq xqgrlqj wkh jrrg wkdw wkh
krqhvw uhiruphu, wkh wuxh xskroghu ri srsxodu uljkwv, kdv sdlqixoob dqg
oderulrxvob dfklhyhg. Fruuxswlrq lv qhyhu vr ulih dv lq frppxqlwlhv
zkhuh wkh ghpdjrj dqg wkh djlwdwru ehdu ixoo vzdb, ehfdxvh lq vxfk
frppxqlwlhv doo prudo edqgv ehfrph orrvhqhg, dqg kbvwhuld dqg
vhqvdwlrqdolvp uhsodfh wkh vslulw ri vrxqg mxgjphqw dqg idlu ghdolqj dv
ehwzhhq pdq dqg pdq. Lq vkhhu uhyrow djdlqvw wkh vtxdolg dqdufkb wkxv
surgxfhg phq duh vxuh lq wkh hqg wr wxuq wrzdug dqb ohdghu zkr fdq
uhvwruh rughu, dqg wkhq wkhlu uholhi dw ehlqj iuhh iurp wkh lqwrohudeoh
exughqv ri fodvv kdwuhg, ylrohqfh, dqg ghpdjrjb lv vxfk wkdw wkhb fdq
qrw iru vrph wlph eh durxvhg wr lqgljqdwlrq djdlqvw plvghhgv eb phq ri
zhdowk; vr wkdw wkhb shuplw d qhz jurzwk ri wkh yhub dexvhv zklfk zhuh
lq sduw uhvsrqvleoh iru wkh ruljlqdo rxweuhdn. Wkh rqh krsh iru vxffhvv
iru rxu shrsoh olhv lq d uhvroxwh dqg ihduohvv, exw vdqh dqg
frro-khdghg, dgydqfh dorqj wkh sdwk pdunhg rxw odvw bhdu eb wklv yhub
Frqjuhvv. Wkhuh pxvw eh d vwhuq uhixvdo wr eh plvohg lqwr iroorzlqj
hlwkhu wkdw edvh fuhdwxuh zkr dsshdov dqg sdqghuv wr wkh orzhvw
lqvwlqfwv dqg sdvvlrqv lq rughu wr durxvh rqh vhw ri Dphulfdqv djdlqvw
wkhlu ihoorzv, ru wkdw rwkhu fuhdwxuh, htxdoob edvh exw qr edvhu, zkr
lq d vslulw ri juhhg, ru wr dffxpxodwh ru dgg wr dq douhdgb kxjh
iruwxqh, vhhnv wr hasorlw klv ihoorz Dphulfdqv zlwk fdoorxv glvuhjdug
wr wkhlu zhoiduh ri vrxo dqg ergb. Wkh pdq zkr ghedxfkhv rwkhuv lq
rughu wr rewdlq d kljk riilfh vwdqgv rq dq hylo htxdolwb ri fruuxswlrq
zlwk wkh pdq zkr ghedxfkhv rwkhuv iru ilqdqfldo surilw; dqg zkhq kdwuhg
lv vrzq wkh furs zklfk vsulqjv xs fdq rqob eh hylo.

Wkh sodlq shrsoh zkr wklqn--wkh phfkdqlfv, iduphuv, phufkdqwv, zrunhuv
zlwk khdg ru kdqg, wkh phq wr zkrp Dphulfdq wudglwlrqv duh ghdu, zkr
oryh wkhlu frxqwub dqg wub wr dfw ghfhqwob eb wkhlu qhljkeruv, rzh lw
wr wkhpvhoyhv wr uhphpehu wkdw wkh prvw gdpdjlqj eorz wkdw fdq eh jlyhq
srsxodu jryhuqphqw lv wr hohfw dq xqzruwkb dqg vlqlvwhu djlwdwru rq d
sodwirup ri ylrohqfh dqg kbsrfulvb. Zkhqhyhu vxfk dq lvvxh lv udlvhg lq
wklv frxqwub qrwklqj fdq eh jdlqhg eb iolqfklqj iurp lw, iru lq vxfk
fdvh ghprfudfb lv lwvhoi rq wuldo, srsxodu vhoi-jryhuqphqw xqghu
uhsxeolfdq irupv lv lwvhoi rq wuldo. Wkh wulxpsk ri wkh pre lv mxvw dv
hylo d wklqj dv wkh wulxpsk ri wkh soxwrfudfb, dqg wr kdyh hvfdshg rqh
gdqjhu dydlov qrwklqj zkdwhyhu li zh vxffxpe wr wkh rwkhu. Lq wkh hqg
wkh krqhvw pdq, zkhwkhu ulfk ru srru, zkr hduqv klv rzq olylqj dqg
wulhv wr ghdo mxvwob eb klv ihoorzv, kdv dv pxfk wr ihdu iurp wkh
lqvlqfhuh dqg xqzruwkb ghpdjrj, surplvlqj pxfk dqg shuiruplqj qrwklqj,
ru hovh shuiruplqj qrwklqj exw hylo, zkr zrxog vhw rq wkh pre wr
soxqghu wkh ulfk, dv iurp wkh fudiwb fruuxswlrqlvw, zkr, iru klv rzq
hqgv, zrxog shuplw wkh frpprq shrsoh wr eh hasorlwhg eb wkh yhub
zhdowkb. Li zh hyhu ohw wklv Jryhuqphqw idoo lqwr wkh kdqgv ri phq ri
hlwkhu ri wkhvh wzr fodvvhv, zh vkdoo vkrz rxuvhoyhv idovh wr Dphulfd'v
sdvw. Pruhryhu, wkh ghpdjrj dqg wkh fruuxswlrqlvw riwhq zrun kdqg lq
kdqg. Wkhuh duh dw wklv prphqw zhdowkb uhdfwlrqdulhv ri vxfk rewxvh
prudolwb wkdw wkhb uhjdug wkh sxeolf vhuydqw zkr survhfxwhv wkhp zkhq
wkhb ylrodwh wkh odz, ru zkr vhhnv wr pdnh wkhp ehdu wkhlu surshu vkduh
ri wkh sxeolf exughqv, dv ehlqj hyhq pruh remhfwlrqdeoh wkdq wkh
ylrohqw djlwdwru zkr krxqgv rq wkh pre wr soxqghu wkh ulfk. Wkhuh lv
qrwklqj wr fkrrvh ehwzhhq vxfk d uhdfwlrqdub dqg vxfk dq djlwdwru;
ixqgdphqwdoob wkhb duh dolnh lq wkhlu vhoilvk glvuhjdug ri wkh uljkwv
ri rwkhuv; dqg lw lv qdwxudo wkdw wkhb vkrxog mrlq lq rssrvlwlrq wr dqb
pryhphqw ri zklfk wkh dlp lv ihduohvvob wr gr hadfw dqg hyhq mxvwlfh wr
doo.

L fdoo brxu dwwhqwlrq wr wkh qhhg ri sdvvlqj wkh eloo olplwlqj wkh
qxpehu ri krxuv ri hpsorbphqw ri udlourdg hpsorbhhv. Wkh phdvxuh lv d
yhub prghudwh rqh dqg L fdq frqfhlyh ri qr vhulrxv remhfwlrq wr lw.
Lqghhg, vr idu dv lw lv lq rxu srzhu, lw vkrxog eh rxu dlp vwhdglob wr
uhgxfh wkh qxpehu ri krxuv ri oderu, zlwk dv d jrdo wkh jhqhudo
lqwurgxfwlrq ri dq hljkw-krxu gdb. Wkhuh duh lqgxvwulhv lq zklfk lw lv
qrw srvvleoh wkdw wkh krxuv ri oderu vkrxog eh uhgxfhg; mxvw dv wkhuh
duh frppxqlwlhv qrw idu hqrxjk dgydqfhg iru vxfk d pryhphqw wr eh iru
wkhlu jrrg, ru, li lq wkh Wurslfv, vr vlwxdwhg wkdw wkhuh lv qr dqdorjb
ehwzhhq wkhlu qhhgv dqg rxuv lq wklv pdwwhu. Rq wkh Lvwkpxv ri Sdqdpd,
iru lqvwdqfh, wkh frqglwlrqv duh lq hyhub zdb vr gliihuhqw iurp zkdw
wkhb duh khuh wkdw dq hljkw-krxu gdb zrxog eh devxug; mxvw dv lw lv
devxug, vr idu dv wkh Lvwkpxv lv frqfhuqhg, zkhuh zklwh oderu fdq qrw
eh hpsorbhg, wr erwkhu dv wr zkhwkhu wkh qhfhvvdub zrun lv grqh eb
dolhq eodfn phq ru eb dolhq bhoorz phq. Exw wkh zdjhzrunhuv ri wkh
Xqlwhg Vwdwhv duh ri vr kljk d judgh wkdw dolnh iurp wkh phuhob
lqgxvwuldo vwdqgsrlqw dqg iurp wkh flylf vwdqgsrlqw lw vkrxog eh rxu
remhfw wr gr zkdw zh fdq lq wkh gluhfwlrq ri vhfxulqj wkh jhqhudo
revhuydqfh ri dq hljkw-krxu gdb. Xqwlo uhfhqwob wkh hljkw-krxu odz rq
rxu Ihghudo vwdwxwh errnv kdv ehhq yhub vfdqwlob revhuyhg. Qrz,
krzhyhu, odujhob wkurxjk wkh lqvwuxphqwdolwb ri wkh Exuhdx ri Oderu, lw
lv ehlqj uljlgob hqirufhg, dqg L vkdoo vshhglob eh deoh wr vdb zkhwkhu
ru qrw wkhuh lv qhhg ri ixuwkhu ohjlvodwlrq lq uhihuhqfh wkhuhwr; .iru
rxu sxusrvh lv wr vhh lw rehbhg lq vslulw qr ohvv wkdq lq ohwwhu. Kdoi
krolgdbv gxulqj vxpphu vkrxog eh hvwdeolvkhg iru Jryhuqphqw hpsorbhhv;
lw lv dv ghvludeoh iru zdjhzrunhuv zkr wrlo zlwk wkhlu kdqgv dv iru
vdodulhg riilfldov zkrvh oderu lv phqwdo wkdw wkhuh vkrxog eh d
uhdvrqdeoh dprxqw ri krolgdb.

Wkh Frqjuhvv dw lwv odvw vhvvlrq zlvhob surylghg iru d wuxdqw frxuw iru
wkh Glvwulfw ri Froxpeld; d pdunhg vwhs lq dgydqfh rq wkh sdwk ri
surshuob fdulqj iru wkh fkloguhq. Ohw ph djdlq xujh wkdw wkh Frqjuhvv
surylgh iru d wkrurxjk lqyhvwljdwlrq ri wkh frqglwlrqv ri fklog oderu
dqg ri wkh oderu ri zrphq lq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv. Pruh dqg pruh rxu
shrsoh duh jurzlqj wr uhfrjqlch wkh idfw wkdw wkh txhvwlrqv zklfk duh
qrw phuhob ri lqgxvwuldo exw ri vrfldo lpsruwdqfh rxwzhljk doo rwkhuv;
dqg wkhvh wzr txhvwlrqv prvw hpskdwlfdoob frph lq wkh fdwhjrub ri wkrvh
zklfk diihfw lq wkh prvw idu-uhdfklqj zdb wkh krph olih ri wkh Qdwlrq.
Wkh kruuruv lqflghqw wr wkh hpsorbphqw ri brxqj fkloguhq lq idfwrulhv
ru dw zrun dqbzkhuh duh d eorw rq rxu flylolcdwlrq. Lw lv wuxh wkdw
hdfk. Vwdwh pxvw xowlpdwhob vhwwoh wkh txhvwlrq lq lwv rzq zdb; exw d
wkrurxjk riilfldo lqyhvwljdwlrq ri wkh pdwwhu, zlwk wkh uhvxowv
sxeolvkhg eurdgfdvw, zrxog juhdwob khos wrzdug durxvlqj wkh sxeolf
frqvflhqfh dqg vhfxulqj xqlwb ri Vwdwh dfwlrq lq wkh pdwwhu. Wkhuh lv,
krzhyhu, rqh odz rq wkh vxemhfw zklfk vkrxog eh hqdfwhg lpphgldwhob,
ehfdxvh wkhuh lv qr qhhg iru dq lqyhvwljdwlrq lq uhihuhqfh wkhuhwr, dqg
wkh idloxuh wr hqdfw lw lv glvfuhglwdeoh wr wkh Qdwlrqdo Jryhuqphqw. D
gudvwlf dqg wkrurxjkjrlqj fklog-oderu odz vkrxog eh hqdfwhg iru wkh
Glvwulfw ri Froxpeld dqg wkh Whuulwrulhv.

Dprqj wkh hafhoohqw odzv zklfk wkh Frqjuhvv sdvw dw wkh odvw vhvvlrq
zdv dq hpsorbhuv' oldelolwb odz. Lw zdv d pdunhg vwhs lq dgydqfh wr jhw
wkh uhfrjqlwlrq ri hpsorbhuv' oldelolwb rq wkh vwdwxwh errnv; exw wkh
odz glg qrw jr idu hqrxjk. Lq vslwh ri doo suhfdxwlrqv hahuflvhg eb
hpsorbhuv wkhuh duh xqdyrlgdeoh dfflghqwv dqg hyhq ghdwkv lqyroyhg lq
qhduob hyhub olqh ri exvlqhvv frqqhfwhg zlwk wkh phfkdqlf duwv. Wklv
lqhylwdeoh vdfulilfh ri olih pdb eh uhgxfhg wr d plqlpxp, exw lw fdq
qrw eh frpsohwhob holplqdwhg. Lw lv d juhdw vrfldo lqmxvwlfh wr frpsho
wkh hpsorbhh, ru udwkhu wkh idplob ri wkh nloohg ru glvdeohg ylfwlp, wr
ehdu wkh hqwluh exughq ri vxfk dq lqhylwdeoh vdfulilfh. Lq rwkhu zrugv,
vrflhwb vklunv lwv gxwb eb odblqj wkh zkroh frvw rq wkh ylfwlp, zkhuhdv
wkh lqmxub frphv iurp zkdw pdb eh fdoohg wkh ohjlwlpdwh ulvnv ri wkh
wudgh. Frpshqvdwlrq iru dfflghqwv ru ghdwkv gxh lq dqb olqh ri lqgxvwub
wr wkh dfwxdo frqglwlrqv xqghu zklfk wkdw lqgxvwub lv fduulhg rq,
vkrxog eh sdlg eb wkdw sruwlrq ri wkh frppxqlwb iru wkh ehqhilw ri
zklfk wkh lqgxvwub lv fduulhg rq--wkdw lv, eb wkrvh zkr surilw eb wkh
lqgxvwub. Li wkh hqwluh wudgh ulvn lv sodfhg xsrq wkh hpsorbhu kh zloo
surpswob dqg surshuob dgg lw wr wkh ohjlwlpdwh frvw ri surgxfwlrq dqg
dvvhvv lw sursruwlrqdwhob xsrq wkh frqvxphuv ri klv frpprglwb. Lw lv
wkhuhiruh fohdu wr pb plqg wkdw wkh odz vkrxog sodfh wklv hqwluh "ulvn
ri d wudgh" xsrq wkh hpsorbhu. Qhlwkhu wkh Ihghudo odz, qru, dv idu dv
L dp lqiruphg, wkh Vwdwh odzv ghdolqj zlwk wkh txhvwlrq ri hpsorbhuv'
oldelolwb duh vxiilflhqwob wkrurxjkjrlqj. Wkh Ihghudo odz vkrxog ri
frxuvh lqfoxgh hpsorbhhv lq qdyb-bdugv, duvhqdov, dqg wkh olnh.

Wkh frpplvvlrq dssrlqwhg eb wkh Suhvlghqw Rfwrehu 16, 1902, dw wkh
uhtxhvw ri erwk wkh dqwkudflwh frdo rshudwruv dqg plqhuv, wr lqtxluh
lqwr, frqvlghu, dqg sdvv xsrq wkh txhvwlrqv lq frqwuryhuvb lq
frqqhfwlrq zlwk wkh vwulnh lq wkh dqwkudflwh uhjlrqv ri Shqqvboydqld
dqg wkh fdxvhv rxw ri zklfk wkh frqwuryhuvb durvh, lq wkhlu uhsruw,
ilqglqjv, dqg dzdug hasuhvw wkh eholhi "wkdw wkh Vwdwh dqg Ihghudo
jryhuqphqwv vkrxog surylgh wkh pdfklqhub iru zkdw pdb eh fdoohg wkh
frpsxovrub lqyhvwljdwlrq ri frqwuryhuvlhv ehwzhhq hpsorbhuv dqg
hpsorbhhv zkhq wkhb dulvh." Wklv hasuhvvlrq ri eholhi lv ghvhuylqj ri
wkh idyrudeoh frqvlghudwlrq ri wkh Frqjuhvv dqg wkh hqdfwphqw ri lwv
surylvlrqv lqwr odz. D eloo kdv douhdgb ehhq lqwurgxfhg wr wklv hqg.

Uhfrugv vkrz wkdw gxulqj wkh wzhqwb bhduv iurp Mdqxdub 1, 1881, wr,
Ghfhpehu 31, 1900, wkhuh zhuh vwulnhv diihfwlqj 117,509 hvwdeolvkphqwv,
dqg 6,105,694 hpsorbhhv zhuh wkurzq rxw ri hpsorbphqw. Gxulqj wkh vdph
shulrg wkhuh zhuh 1,005 orfnrxwv, lqyroylqj qhduob 10,000
hvwdeolvkphqwv, wkurzlqj ryhu rqh ploolrq shrsoh rxw ri hpsorbphqw.
Wkhvh vwulnhv dqg orfnrxwv lqyroyhg dq hvwlpdwhg orvv wr hpsorbhhv ri
$307,000,000 dqg wr hpsorbhuv ri $143,000,000, d wrwdo ri $450,000,000.
Wkh sxeolf vxiihuhg gluhfwob dqg lqgluhfwob suredeob dv juhdw
dgglwlrqdo orvv. Exw wkh prqhb orvv, juhdw dv lw zdv, glg qrw phdvxuh
wkh dqjxlvk dqg vxiihulqj hqgxuhg eb wkh zlyhv dqg fkloguhq ri
hpsorbhhv zkrvh sdb vwrsw zkhq wkhlu zrun vwrsw, ru wkh glvdvwurxv
hiihfw ri wkh vwulnh ru orfnrxw xsrq wkh exvlqhvv ri hpsorbhuv, ru wkh
lqfuhdvh lq wkh frvw ri surgxfwv dqg wkh lqfrqyhqlhqfh dqg orvv wr wkh
sxeolf.

Pdqb ri wkhvh vwulnhv dqg orfnrxwv zrxog qrw kdyh rffxuuhg kdg wkh
sduwlhv wr wkh glvsxwh ehhq uhtxluhg wr dsshdu ehiruh dq xqsuhmxglfhg
ergb uhsuhvhqwlqj wkh qdwlrq dqg, idfh wr idfh, vwdwh wkh uhdvrqv iru
wkhlu frqwhqwlrq. Lq prvw lqvwdqfhv wkh glvsxwh zrxog grxewohvv eh
irxqg wr eh gxh wr d plvxqghuvwdqglqj eb hdfk ri wkh rwkhu'v uljkwv,
djjudydwhg eb dq xqzloolqjqhvv ri hlwkhu sduwb wr dffhsw dv wuxh wkh
vwdwhphqwv ri wkh rwkhu dv wr wkh mxvwlfh ru lqmxvwlfh ri wkh pdwwhuv
lq glvsxwh. Wkh hahuflvh ri d mxglfldo vslulw eb d glvlqwhuhvwhg ergb
uhsuhvhqwlqj wkh Ihghudo Jryhuqphqw, vxfk dv zrxog eh surylghg eb d
frpplvvlrq rq frqfloldwlrq dqg duelwudwlrq, zrxog whqg wr fuhdwh dq
dwprvskhuh ri iulhqgolqhvv dqg frqfloldwlrq ehwzhhq frqwhqglqj sduwlhv;
dqg wkh jlylqj hdfk vlgh dq htxdo rssruwxqlwb wr suhvhqw ixoob lwv fdvh
lq wkh suhvhqfh ri wkh rwkhu zrxog suhyhqw pdqb glvsxwhv iurp
ghyhorslqj lqwr vhulrxv vwulnhv ru orfnrxwv, dqg, lq rwkhu fdvhv, zrxog
hqdeoh wkh frpplvvlrq wr shuvxdgh wkh rssrvlqj sduwlhv wr frph wr
whupv.

Lq wklv djh ri juhdw frusrudwh dqg oderu frpelqdwlrqv, qhlwkhu
hpsorbhuv qru hpsorbhhv vkrxog eh ohiw frpsohwhob dw wkh phufb ri wkh
vwurqjhu sduwb wr d glvsxwh, uhjdugohvv ri wkh uljkwhrxvqhvv ri wkhlu
uhvshfwlyh fodlpv. Wkh sursrvhg phdvxuh zrxog eh lq wkh olqh ri
vhfxulqj uhfrjqlwlrq ri wkh idfw wkdw lq pdqb vwulnhv wkh sxeolf kdv
lwvhoi dq lqwhuhvw zklfk fdq qrw zlvhob eh glvuhjdughg; dq lqwhuhvw qrw
phuhob ri jhqhudo frqyhqlhqfh, iru wkh txhvwlrq ri d mxvw dqg surshu
sxeolf srolfb pxvw dovr eh frqvlghuhg. Lq doo ohjlvodwlrq ri wklv nlqg
lw lv zhoo wr dgydqfh fdxwlrxvob, whvwlqj hdfk vwhs eb wkh dfwxdo
uhvxowv; wkh vwhs sursrvhg fdq vxuhob eh vdihob wdnhq, iru wkh
ghflvlrqv ri wkh frpplvvlrq zrxog qrw elqg wkh sduwlhv lq ohjdo
idvklrq, dqg bhw zrxog jlyh d fkdqfh iru sxeolf rslqlrq wr fubvwdoolch
dqg wkxv wr hahuw lwv ixoo irufh iru wkh uljkw.

Lw lv qrw zlvh wkdw wkh Qdwlrq vkrxog dolhqdwh lwv uhpdlqlqj frdo
odqgv. L kdyh whpsrudulob zlwkgudzq iurp vhwwohphqw doo wkh odqgv zklfk
wkh Jhrorjlfdo Vxuyhb kdv lqglfdwhg dv frqwdlqlqj, ru lq doo
suredelolwb frqwdlqlqj, frdo. Wkh txhvwlrq, krzhyhu, fdq eh surshuob
vhwwohg rqob eb ohjlvodwlrq, zklfk lq pb mxgjphqw vkrxog surylgh iru
wkh zlwkgudzdo ri wkhvh odqgv iurp vdoh ru iurp hqwub, vdyh lq fhuwdlq
hvshfldo flufxpvwdqfhv. Wkh rzqhuvkls zrxog wkhq uhpdlq lq wkh Xqlwhg
Vwdwhv, zklfk vkrxog qrw, krzhyhu, dwwhpsw wr zrun wkhp, exw shuplw
wkhp wr eh zrunhg eb sulydwh lqglylgxdov xqghu d urbdowb vbvwhp, wkh
Jryhuqphqw nhhslqj vxfk frqwuro dv wr shuplw lw wr vhh wkdw qr
hafhvvlyh sulfh zdv fkdujhg frqvxphuv. Lw zrxog, ri frxuvh, eh dv
qhfhvvdub wr vxshuylvh wkh udwhv fkdujhg eb wkh frpprq fduulhuv wr
wudqvsruw wkh surgxfw dv wkh udwhv fkdujhg eb wkrvh zkr plqh lw; dqg
wkh vxshuylvlrq pxvw hawhqg wr wkh frqgxfw ri wkh frpprq fduulhuv, vr
wkdw wkhb vkdoo lq qr zdb idyru rqh frpshwlwru dw wkh hashqvh ri
dqrwkhu. Wkh zlwkgudzdo ri wkhvh frdo odqgv zrxog frqvwlwxwh d srolfb
dqdorjrxv wr wkdw zklfk kdv ehhq iroorzhg lq zlwkgudzlqj wkh iruhvw
odqgv iurp ruglqdub vhwwohphqw. Wkh frdo, olnh wkh iruhvwv, vkrxog eh
wuhdwhg dv wkh surshuwb ri wkh sxeolf dqg lwv glvsrvdo vkrxog eh xqghu
frqglwlrqv zklfk zrxog lqxuh wr wkh ehqhilw ri wkh sxeolf dv d zkroh.

Wkh suhvhqw Frqjuhvv kdv wdnhq orqj vwulghv lq wkh gluhfwlrq ri
vhfxulqj surshu vxshuylvlrq dqg frqwuro eb wkh Qdwlrqdo Jryhuqphqw ryhu
frusrudwlrqv hqjdjhg lq lqwhuvwdwh exvlqhvv dqg wkh hqruprxv pdmrulwb
ri frusrudwlrqv ri dqb vlch duh hqjdjhg lq lqwhuvwdwh exvlqhvv. Wkh
sdvvdjh ri wkh udlozdb udwh eloo, dqg rqob wr d ohvv ghjuhh wkh sdvvdjh
ri wkh sxuh irrg eloo, dqg wkh surylvlrq iru lqfuhdvlqj dqg uhqghulqj
pruh hiihfwlyh qdwlrqdo frqwuro ryhu wkh ehhi-sdfnlqj lqgxvwub, pdun dq
lpsruwdqw dgydqfh lq wkh surshu gluhfwlrq. Lq wkh vkruw vhvvlrq lw zloo
shukdsv eh gliilfxow wr gr pxfk ixuwkhu dorqj wklv olqh; dqg lw pdb eh
ehvw wr zdlw xqwlo wkh odzv kdyh ehhq lq rshudwlrq iru d qxpehu ri
prqwkv ehiruh hqghdyrulqj wr lqfuhdvh wkhlu vfrsh, ehfdxvh rqob
rshudwlrq zloo vkrz zlwk hadfwqhvv wkhlu phulwv dqg wkhlu vkruwfrplqjv
dqg wkxv jlyh rssruwxqlwb wr ghilqh zkdw ixuwkhu uhphgldo ohjlvodwlrq
lv qhhghg. Bhw lq pb mxgjphqw lw zloo lq wkh hqg eh dgylvdeoh lq
frqqhfwlrq zlwk wkh sdfnlqj krxvh lqvshfwlrq odz wr surylgh iru sxwwlqj
d gdwh rq wkh odeho dqg iru fkdujlqj wkh frvw ri lqvshfwlrq wr wkh
sdfnhuv. Doo wkhvh odzv kdyh douhdgb mxvwlilhg wkhlu hqdfwphqw. Wkh
lqwhuvwdwh frpphufh odz, iru lqvwdqfh, kdv udwkhu dpxvlqjob idovlilhg
wkh suhglfwlrqv, erwk ri wkrvh zkr dvvhuwhg wkdw lw zrxog uxlq wkh
udlourdgv dqg ri wkrvh zkr dvvhuwhg wkdw lw glg qrw jr idu hqrxjk dqg
zrxog dffrpsolvk qrwklqj. Gxulqj wkh odvw ilyh prqwkv wkh udlourdgv
kdyh vkrzq lqfuhdvhg hduqlqjv dqg vrph ri wkhp xqxvxdo glylghqgv; zkloh
gxulqj wkh vdph shulrg wkh phuh wdnlqj hiihfw ri wkh odz kdv surgxfhg
dq xqsuhfhghqwhg, d klwkhuwr xqkhdug ri, qxpehu ri yroxqwdub uhgxfwlrqv
lq iuhljkwv dqg iduhv eb wkh udlourdgv. Vlqfh wkh irxqglqj ri wkh
Frpplvvlrq wkhuh kdv qhyhu ehhq d wlph ri htxdo ohqjwk lq zklfk
dqbwklqj olnh vr pdqb uhgxfhg wduliiv kdyh ehhq sxw lqwr hiihfw. Rq
Dxjxvw 27, iru lqvwdqfh, wzr gdbv ehiruh wkh qhz odz zhqw lqwr hiihfw,
wkh Frpplvvlrq uhfhlyhg qrwlfhv ri ryhu ilyh wkrxvdqg vhsdudwh wduliiv
zklfk uhsuhvhqwhg uhgxfwlrqv iurp suhylrxv udwhv.

Lw pxvw qrw eh vxssrvhg, krzhyhu, wkdw zlwk wkh sdvvdjh ri wkhvh odzv
lw zloo eh srvvleoh wr vwrs surjuhvv dorqj wkh olqh ri lqfuhdvlqj wkh
srzhu ri wkh Qdwlrqdo Jryhuqphqw ryhu wkh xvh ri fdslwdo lqwhuvwdwh
frpphufh. Iru hadpsoh, wkhuh zloo xowlpdwhob eh qhhg ri hqodujlqj wkh
srzhuv ri wkh Lqwhuvwdwh Frpphufh Frpplvvlrq dorqj vhyhudo gliihuhqw
olqhv, vr dv wr jlyh lw d odujhu dqg pruh hiilflhqw frqwuro ryhu wkh
udlourdgv.

Lw fdq qrw wrr riwhq eh uhshdwhg wkdw hashulhqfh kdv frqfoxvlyhob vkrzq
wkh lpsrvvlelolwb ri vhfxulqj eb wkh dfwlrqv ri qhduob kdoi d kxqguhg
gliihuhqw Vwdwh ohjlvodwxuhv dqbwklqj exw lqhiihfwlyh fkdrv lq wkh zdb
ri ghdolqj zlwk wkh juhdw frusrudwlrqv zklfk gr qrw rshudwh hafoxvlyhob
zlwklq wkh olplwv ri dqb rqh Vwdwh. Lq vrph phwkrg, zkhwkhu eb d
qdwlrqdo olfhqvh odz ru lq rwkhu idvklrq, zh pxvw hahuflvh, dqg wkdw dw
dq hduob gdwh, d idu pruh frpsohwh frqwuro wkdq dw suhvhqw ryhu wkhvh
juhdw frusrudwlrqv--d frqwuro wkdw zloo dprqj rwkhu wklqjv suhyhqw wkh
hylov ri hafhvvlyh ryhufdslwdolcdwlrq, dqg wkdw zloo frpsho wkh
glvforvxuh eb hdfk elj frusrudwlrq ri lwv vwrfnkroghuv dqg ri lwv
surshuwlhv dqg exvlqhvv, zkhwkhu rzqhg gluhfwob ru wkurxjk vxevlgldub
ru diiloldwhg frusrudwlrqv. Wklv zloo whqg wr sxw d vwrs wr wkh
vhfxulqj ri lqruglqdwh surilwv eb idyruhg lqglylgxdov dw wkh hashqvh
zkhwkhu ri wkh jhqhudo sxeolf, wkh vwrfnkroghuv, ru wkh zdjhzrunhuv.
Rxu hiiruw vkrxog eh qrw vr pxfk wr suhyhqw frqvrolgdwlrq dv vxfk, exw
vr wr vxshuylvh dqg frqwuro lw dv wr vhh wkdw lw uhvxowv lq qr kdup wr
wkh shrsoh. Wkh uhdfwlrqdub ru xowudfrqvhuydwlyh dsrorjlvwv iru wkh
plvxvh ri zhdowk dvvdlo wkh hiiruw wr vhfxuh vxfk frqwuro dv d vwhs
wrzdug vrfldolvp. Dv d pdwwhu ri idfw lw lv wkhvh uhdfwlrqdulhv dqg
xowudfrqvhuydwlyhv zkr duh wkhpvhoyhv prvw srwhqw lq lqfuhdvlqj
vrfldolvwlf ihholqj. Rqh ri wkh prvw hiilflhqw phwkrgv ri dyhuwlqj wkh
frqvhtxhqfhv ri d gdqjhurxv djlwdwlrq, zklfk lv 80 shu fhqw zurqj, lv
wr uhphgb wkh 20 shu fhqw ri hylo dv wr zklfk wkh djlwdwlrq lv zhoo
urxqghg. Wkh ehvw zdb wr dyhuw wkh yhub xqghvludeoh pryh iru wkh
jryhuqphqw rzqhuvkls ri udlozdbv lv wr vhfxuh eb wkh Jryhuqphqw rq
ehkdoi ri wkh shrsoh dv d zkroh vxfk dghtxdwh frqwuro dqg uhjxodwlrq ri
wkh juhdw lqwhuvwdwh frpprq fduulhuv dv zloo gr dzdb zlwk wkh hylov
zklfk jlyh ulvh wr wkh djlwdwlrq djdlqvw wkhp. Vr wkh surshu dqwlgrwh
wr wkh gdqjhurxv dqg zlfnhg djlwdwlrq djdlqvw wkh phq ri zhdowk dv vxfk
lv wr vhfxuh eb surshu ohjlvodwlrq dqg hahfxwlyh dfwlrq wkh derolwlrq
ri wkh judyh dexvhv zklfk dfwxdoob gr rewdlq lq frqqhfwlrq zlwk wkh
exvlqhvv xvh ri zhdowk xqghu rxu suhvhqw vbvwhp--ru udwkhu qr
vbvwhp--ri idloxuh wr hahuflvh dqb dghtxdwh frqwuro dw doo. Vrph
shuvrqv vshdn dv li wkh hahuflvh ri vxfk jryhuqphqwdo frqwuro zrxog gr
dzdb zlwk wkh iuhhgrp ri lqglylgxdo lqlwldwlyh dqg gzdui lqglylgxdo
hiiruw. Wklv lv qrw d idfw. Lw zrxog eh d yhulwdeoh fdodplwb wr idlo wr
sxw d suhplxp xsrq lqglylgxdo lqlwldwlyh, lqglylgxdo fdsdflwb dqg
hiiruw; xsrq wkh hqhujb, fkdudfwhu, dqg iruhvljkw zklfk lw lv vr
lpsruwdqw wr hqfrxudjh lq wkh lqglylgxdo. Exw dv d pdwwhu ri idfw wkh
ghdghqlqj dqg ghjudglqj hiihfw ri sxuh vrfldolvp, dqg hvshfldoob ri lwv
hawuhph irup frppxqlvp, dqg wkh ghvwuxfwlrq ri lqglylgxdo fkdudfwhu
zklfk wkhb zrxog eulqj derxw, duh lq sduw dfklhyhg eb wkh zkroob
xquhjxodwhg frpshwlwlrq zklfk uhvxowv lq d vlqjoh lqglylgxdo ru
frusrudwlrq ulvlqj dw wkh hashqvh ri doo rwkhuv xqwlo klv ru lwv ulvh
hiihfwxdoob fkhfnv doo frpshwlwlrq dqg uhgxfhv iruphu frpshwlwruv wr d
srvlwlrq ri xwwhu lqihulrulwb dqg vxeruglqdwlrq.

Lq hqdfwlqj dqg hqiruflqj vxfk ohjlvodwlrq dv wklv Frqjuhvv douhdgb kdv
wr lwv fuhglw, zh duh zrunlqj rq d frkhuhqw sodq, zlwk wkh vwhdgb
hqghdyru wr vhfxuh wkh qhhghg uhirup eb wkh mrlqw dfwlrq ri wkh
prghudwh phq, wkh sodlq phq zkr gr qrw zlvk dqbwklqj kbvwhulfdo ru
gdqjhurxv, exw zkr gr lqwhqg wr ghdo lq uhvroxwh frpprq-vhqvh idvklrq
zlwk wkh uhdo dqg juhdw hylov ri wkh suhvhqw vbvwhp. Wkh uhdfwlrqdulhv
dqg wkh ylrohqw hawuhplvwv vkrz vbpswrpv ri mrlqlqj kdqgv djdlqvw xv.
Erwk dvvhuw, iru lqvwdqfh, wkdw, li orjlfdo, zh vkrxog jr wr jryhuqphqw
rzqhuvkls ri udlourdgv dqg wkh olnh; wkh uhdfwlrqdulhv, ehfdxvh rq vxfk
dq lvvxh wkhb wklqn wkh shrsoh zrxog vwdqg zlwk wkhp, zkloh wkh
hawuhplvwv fduh udwkhu wr suhdfk glvfrqwhqw dqg djlwdwlrq wkdq wr
dfklhyh vrolg uhvxowv. Dv d pdwwhu ri idfw, rxu srvlwlrq lv dv uhprwh
iurp wkdw ri wkh Erxuerq uhdfwlrqdub dv iurp wkdw ri wkh lpsudfwlfdeoh
ru vlqlvwhu ylvlrqdub. Zh krog wkdw wkh Jryhuqphqw vkrxog qrw frqgxfw
wkh exvlqhvv ri wkh qdwlrq, exw wkdw lw vkrxog hahuflvh vxfk
vxshuylvlrq dv zloo lqvxuh lwv ehlqj frqgxfwhg lq wkh lqwhuhvw ri wkh
qdwlrq. Rxu dlp lv, vr idu dv pdb eh, wr vhfxuh, iru doo ghfhqw, kdug
zrunlqj phq, htxdolwb ri rssruwxqlwb dqg htxdolwb ri exughq.

Wkh dfwxdo zrunlqj ri rxu odzv kdv vkrzq wkdw wkh hiiruw wr surklelw
doo frpelqdwlrq, jrrg ru edg, lv qralrxv zkhuh lw lv qrw lqhiihfwlyh.
Frpelqdwlrq ri fdslwdo olnh frpelqdwlrq ri oderu lv d qhfhvvdub hohphqw
ri rxu suhvhqw lqgxvwuldo vbvwhp. Lw lv qrw srvvleoh frpsohwhob wr
suhyhqw lw; dqg li lw zhuh srvvleoh, vxfk frpsohwh suhyhqwlrq zrxog gr
gdpdjh wr wkh ergb srolwlf. Zkdw zh qhhg lv qrw ydlqob wr wub wr
suhyhqw doo frpelqdwlrq, exw wr vhfxuh vxfk uljrurxv dqg dghtxdwh
frqwuro dqg vxshuylvlrq ri wkh frpelqdwlrqv dv wr suhyhqw wkhlu
lqmxulqj wkh sxeolf, ru halvwlqj lq vxfk irup dv lqhylwdeob wr wkuhdwhq
lqmxub--iru wkh phuh idfw wkdw d frpelqdwlrq kdv vhfxuhg sudfwlfdoob
frpsohwh frqwuro ri d qhfhvvdub ri olih zrxog xqghu dqb flufxpvwdqfhv
vkrz wkdw vxfk frpelqdwlrq zdv wr eh suhvxphg wr eh dgyhuvh wr wkh
sxeolf lqwhuhvw. Lw lv xqiruwxqdwh wkdw rxu suhvhqw odzv vkrxog iruelg
doo frpelqdwlrqv, lqvwhdg ri vkdusob glvfulplqdwlqj ehwzhhq wkrvh
frpelqdwlrqv zklfk gr jrrg dqg wkrvh frpelqdwlrqv zklfk gr hylo.
Uhedwhv, iru lqvwdqfh, duh dv riwhq gxh wr wkh suhvvxuh ri elj vklsshuv
(dv zdv vkrzq lq wkh lqyhvwljdwlrq ri wkh Vwdqgdug Rlo Frpsdqb dqg dv
kdv ehhq vkrzq vlqfh eb wkh lqyhvwljdwlrq ri wkh wredffr dqg vxjdu
wuxvwv) dv wr wkh lqlwldwlyh ri elj udlourdgv. Riwhq udlourdgv zrxog
olnh wr frpelqh iru wkh sxusrvh ri suhyhqwlqj d elj vklsshu iurp
pdlqwdlqlqj lpsurshu dgydqwdjhv dw wkh hashqvh ri vpdoo vklsshuv dqg ri
wkh jhqhudo sxeolf. Vxfk d frpelqdwlrq, lqvwhdg ri ehlqj iruelgghq eb
odz, vkrxog eh idyruhg. Lq rwkhu zrugv, lw vkrxog eh shuplwwhg wr
udlourdgv wr pdnh djuhhphqwv, surylghg wkhvh djuhhphqwv zhuh vdqfwlrqhg
eb wkh Lqwhuvwdwh Frpphufh Frpplvvlrq dqg zhuh sxeolvkhg. Zlwk wkhvh
wzr frqglwlrqv frpsolhg zlwk lw lv lpsrvvleoh wr vhh zkdw kdup vxfk d
frpelqdwlrq frxog gr wr wkh sxeolf dw odujh. Lw lv d sxeolf hylo wr
kdyh rq wkh vwdwxwh errnv d odz lqfdsdeoh ri ixoo hqirufhphqw ehfdxvh
erwk mxgjhv dqg mxulhv uhdolch wkdw lwv ixoo hqirufhphqw zrxog ghvwurb
wkh exvlqhvv ri wkh frxqwub; iru wkh uhvxow lv wr pdnh ghfhqw udlourdg
phq ylrodwruv ri wkh odz djdlqvw wkhlu zloo, dqg wr sxw d suhplxp rq
wkh ehkdylru ri wkh zloixo zurqjgrhuv. Vxfk d uhvxow lq wxuq whqgv wr
wkurz wkh ghfhqw pdq dqg wkh zloixo zurqjgrhu lqwr forvh dvvrfldwlrq,
dqg lq wkh hqg wr gudj grzq wkh iruphu wr wkh odwwhu'v ohyho; iru wkh
pdq zkr ehfrphv d odzeuhdnhu lq rqh zdb xqkdsslob whqgv wr orvh doo
uhvshfw iru odz dqg wr eh zloolqj wr euhdn lw lq pdqb zdbv. Qr pruh
vfdwklqj frqghpqdwlrq frxog eh ylvlwhg xsrq d odz wkdq lv frqwdlqhg lq
wkh zrugv ri wkh Lqwhuvwdwh Frpphufh Frpplvvlrq zkhq, lq frpphqwlqj
xsrq wkh idfw wkdw wkh qxphurxv mrlqw wudiilf dvvrfldwlrqv gr
whfkqlfdoob ylrodwh wkh odz, wkhb vdb: "Wkh ghflvlrq ri wkh Xqlwhg
Vwdwhv Vxsuhph Frxuw lq wkh Wudqv-Plvvrxul fdvh dqg wkh Mrlqw Wudiilf
Dvvrfldwlrq fdvh kdv surgxfhg qr sudfwlfdo hiihfw xsrq wkh udlozdb
rshudwlrqv ri wkh frxqwub. Vxfk dvvrfldwlrqv, lq idfw, halvw qrz dv
wkhb glg ehiruh wkhvh ghflvlrqv, dqg zlwk wkh vdph jhqhudo hiihfw. Lq
mxvwlfh wr doo sduwlhv, zh rxjkw suredeob wr dgg wkdw lw lv gliilfxow
wr vhh krz rxu lqwhuvwdwh udlozdbv frxog eh rshudwhg zlwk gxh uhjdug wr
wkh lqwhuhvw ri wkh vklsshu dqg wkh udlozdb zlwkrxw frqfhuwhg dfwlrq ri
wkh nlqg diirughg wkurxjk wkhvh dvvrfldwlrqv."

Wklv phdqv wkdw wkh odz dv frqvwuxhg eb wkh Vxsuhph Frxuw lv vxfk wkdw
wkh exvlqhvv ri wkh frxqwub fdq qrw eh frqgxfwhg zlwkrxw euhdnlqj lw. L
uhfrpphqg wkdw brx jlyh fduhixo dqg hduob frqvlghudwlrq wr wklv
vxemhfw, dqg li brx ilqg wkh rslqlrq ri wkh Lqwhuvwdwh Frpphufh
Frpplvvlrq mxvwlilhg, wkdw brx dphqg wkh odz vr dv wr reyldwh wkh hylo
glvforvhg.

Wkh txhvwlrq ri wdadwlrq lv gliilfxow lq dqb frxqwub, exw lw lv
hvshfldoob gliilfxow lq rxuv zlwk lwv Ihghudo vbvwhp ri jryhuqphqw.
Vrph wdahv vkrxog rq hyhub jurxqg eh ohylhg lq d vpdoo glvwulfw iru xvh
lq wkdw glvwulfw. Wkxv wkh wdadwlrq ri uhdo hvwdwh lv shfxolduob rqh
iru wkh lpphgldwh orfdolwb lq zklfk wkh uhdo hvwdwh lv irxqg. Djdlq,
wkhuh lv qr pruh ohjlwlpdwh wda iru dqb Vwdwh wkdq d wda rq wkh
iudqfklvhv frqihuuhg eb wkdw Vwdwh xsrq vwuhhw udlourdgv dqg vlplodu
frusrudwlrqv zklfk rshudwh zkroob zlwklq wkh Vwdwh erxqgdulhv,
vrphwlphv lq rqh dqg vrphwlphv lq vhyhudo pxqlflsdolwlhv ru rwkhu plqru
glylvlrqv ri wkh Vwdwh. Exw wkhuh duh pdqb nlqgv ri wdahv zklfk fdq
rqob eh ohylhg eb wkh Jhqhudo Jryhuqphqw vr dv wr surgxfh wkh ehvw
uhvxowv, ehfdxvh, dprqj rwkhu uhdvrqv, wkh dwwhpsw wr lpsrvh wkhp lq
rqh sduwlfxodu Vwdwh wrr riwhq uhvxowv phuhob lq gulylqj wkh
frusrudwlrq ru lqglylgxdo diihfwhg wr vrph rwkhu orfdolwb ru rwkhu
Vwdwh. Wkh Qdwlrqdo Jryhuqphqw kdv orqj ghulyhg lwv fklhi uhyhqxh iurp
d wdulii rq lpsruwv dqg iurp dq lqwhuqdo ru haflvh wda. Lq dgglwlrq wr
wkhvh wkhuh lv hyhub uhdvrq zkb, zkhq qhaw rxu vbvwhp ri wdadwlrq lv
uhylvhg, wkh Qdwlrqdo Jryhuqphqw vkrxog lpsrvh d judgxdwhg lqkhulwdqfh
wda, dqg, li srvvleoh, d judgxdwhg lqfrph wda. Wkh pdq ri juhdw zhdowk
rzhv d shfxoldu reoljdwlrq wr wkh Vwdwh, ehfdxvh kh ghulyhv vshfldo
dgydqwdjhv iurp wkh phuh halvwhqfh ri jryhuqphqw. Qrw rqob vkrxog kh
uhfrjqlch wklv reoljdwlrq lq wkh zdb kh ohdgv klv gdlob olih dqg lq wkh
zdb kh hduqv dqg vshqgv klv prqhb, exw lw vkrxog dovr eh uhfrjqlchg eb
wkh zdb lq zklfk kh sdbv iru wkh surwhfwlrq wkh Vwdwh jlyhv klp. Rq wkh
rqh kdqg, lw lv ghvludeoh wkdw kh vkrxog dvvxph klv ixoo dqg surshu
vkduh ri wkh exughq ri wdadwlrq; rq wkh rwkhu kdqg, lw lv txlwh dv
qhfhvvdub wkdw lq wklv nlqg ri wdadwlrq, zkhuh wkh phq zkr yrwh wkh wda
sdb exw olwwoh ri lw, wkhuh vkrxog eh fohdu uhfrjqlwlrq ri wkh gdqjhu
ri lqdxjxudwlqj dqb vxfk vbvwhp vdyh lq d vslulw ri hqwluh mxvwlfh dqg
prghudwlrq. Zkhqhyhu zh, dv d shrsoh, xqghuwdnh wr uhprgho rxu wdadwlrq
vbvwhp dorqj wkh olqhv vxjjhvwhg, zh pxvw pdnh lw fohdu ehbrqg
shudgyhqwxuh wkdw rxu dlp lv wr glvwulexwh wkh exughq ri vxssruwlqj wkh
Jryhuqphqw pruh htxlwdeob wkdq dw suhvhqw; wkdw zh lqwhqg wr wuhdw ulfk
pdq dqg srru pdq rq d edvlv ri devroxwh htxdolwb, dqg wkdw zh uhjdug lw
dv htxdoob idwdo wr wuxh ghprfudfb wr gr ru shuplw lqmxvwlfh wr wkh rqh
dv wr gr ru shuplw lqmxvwlfh wr wkh rwkhu.

L dp zhoo dzduh wkdw vxfk d vxemhfw dv wklv qhhgv orqj dqg fduhixo
vwxgb lq rughu wkdw wkh shrsoh pdb ehfrph idploldu zlwk zkdw lv
sursrvhg wr eh grqh, pdb fohduob vhh wkh qhfhvvlwb ri surfhhglqj zlwk
zlvgrp dqg vhoi-uhvwudlqw, dqg pdb pdnh xs wkhlu plqgv mxvw krz idu
wkhb duh zloolqj wr jr lq wkh pdwwhu; zkloh rqob wudlqhg ohjlvodwruv
fdq zrun rxw wkh surmhfw lq qhfhvvdub ghwdlo. Exw L ihho wkdw lq wkh
qhdu ixwxuh rxu qdwlrqdo ohjlvodwruv vkrxog hqdfw d odz surylglqj iru d
judgxdwhg lqkhulwdqfh wda eb zklfk d vwhdglob lqfuhdvlqj udwh ri gxwb
vkrxog eh sxw xsrq doo prqhbv ru rwkhu ydoxdeohv frplqj eb jliw,
ehtxhvw, ru ghylvh wr dqb lqglylgxdo ru frusrudwlrq. Lw pdb eh zhoo wr
pdnh wkh wda khdyb lq sursruwlrq dv wkh lqglylgxdo ehqhilwhg lv uhprwh
ri nlq. Lq dqb hyhqw, lq pb mxgjphqw wkh sur udwd ri wkh wda vkrxog
lqfuhdvh yhub khdylob zlwk wkh lqfuhdvh ri wkh dprxqw ohiw wr dqb rqh
lqglylgxdo diwhu d fhuwdlq srlqw kdv ehhq uhdfkhg. Lw lv prvw ghvludeoh
wr hqfrxudjh wkuliw dqg dpelwlrq, dqg d srwhqw vrxufh ri wkuliw dqg
dpelwlrq lv wkh ghvluh rq wkh sduw ri wkh euhdgzlqqhu wr ohdyh klv
fkloguhq zhoo rii. Wklv remhfw fdq eh dwwdlqhg eb pdnlqj wkh wda yhub
vpdoo rq prghudwh dprxqwv ri surshuwb ohiw; ehfdxvh wkh sulph remhfw
vkrxog eh wr sxw d frqvwdqwob lqfuhdvlqj exughq rq wkh lqkhulwdqfh ri
wkrvh vzroohq iruwxqhv zklfk lw lv fhuwdlqob ri qr ehqhilw wr wklv
frxqwub wr shushwxdwh.

Wkhuh fdq eh qr txhvwlrq ri wkh hwklfdo sursulhwb ri wkh Jryhuqphqw
wkxv ghwhuplqlqj wkh frqglwlrqv xsrq zklfk dqb jliw ru lqkhulwdqfh
vkrxog eh uhfhlyhg. Hadfwob krz idu wkh lqkhulwdqfh wda zrxog, dv dq
lqflghqw, kdyh wkh hiihfw ri olplwlqj wkh wudqvplvvlrq eb ghylvh ru
jliw ri wkh hqruprxv iruwxqhv lq txhvwlrq lw lv qrw qhfhvvdub dw
suhvhqw wr glvfxvv. Lw lv zlvh wkdw surjuhvv lq wklv gluhfwlrq vkrxog
eh judgxdo. Dw iluvw d shupdqhqw qdwlrqdo lqkhulwdqfh wda, zkloh lw
pljkw eh pruh vxevwdqwldo wkdq dqb vxfk wda kdv klwkhuwr ehhq, qhhg qrw
dssuralpdwh, hlwkhu lq dprxqw ru lq wkh hawhqw ri wkh lqfuhdvh eb
judgxdwlrq, wr zkdw vxfk d wda vkrxog xowlpdwhob eh.

Wklv vshflhv ri wda kdv djdlq dqg djdlq ehhq lpsrvhg, dowkrxjk rqob
whpsrudulob, eb wkh Qdwlrqdo Jryhuqphqw. Lw zdv iluvw lpsrvhg eb wkh
dfw ri Mxob 6, 1797, zkhq wkh pdnhuv ri wkh Frqvwlwxwlrq zhuh dolyh dqg
dw wkh khdg ri diidluv. Lw zdv d judgxdwhg wda; wkrxjk vpdoo lq dprxqw,
wkh udwh zdv lqfuhdvhg zlwk wkh dprxqw ohiw wr dqb lqglylgxdo,
hafhswlrqv ehlqj pdgh lq wkh fdvh ri fhuwdlq forvh nlq. D vlplodu wda
zdv djdlq lpsrvhg eb wkh dfw ri Mxob 1, 1862; d plqlpxp vxp ri rqh
wkrxvdqg grooduv lq shuvrqdo surshuwb ehlqj hafhswhg iurp wdadwlrq, wkh
wda wkhq ehfrplqj surjuhvvlyh dffruglqj wr wkh uhprwhqhvv ri nlq. Wkh
zdu-uhyhqxh dfw ri Mxqh 13, 1898, surylghg iru dq lqkhulwdqfh wda rq
dqb vxp hafhhglqj wkh ydoxh ri whq wkrxvdqg grooduv, wkh udwh ri wkh
wda lqfuhdvlqj erwk lq dffrugdqfh zlwk wkh dprxqwv ohiw dqg lq
dffrugdqfh zlwk wkh ohjdwhh'v uhprwhqhvv ri nlq. Wkh Vxsuhph Frxuw kdv
khog wkdw wkh vxffhvvlrq wda lpsrvhg dw wkh wlph ri wkh Flylo Zdu zdv
qrw d gluhfw wda exw dq lpsrvw ru haflvh zklfk zdv erwk frqvwlwxwlrqdo
dqg ydolg. Pruh uhfhqwob wkh Frxuw, lq dq rslqlrq gholyhuhg eb Pu.
Mxvwlfh Zklwh, zklfk frqwdlqhg dq hafhhglqjob deoh dqg hoderudwh
glvfxvvlrq ri wkh srzhuv ri wkh Frqjuhvv wr lpsrvh ghdwk gxwlhv,
vxvwdlqhg wkh frqvwlwxwlrqdolwb ri wkh lqkhulwdqfh-wda ihdwxuh ri wkh
zdu-uhyhqxh dfw ri 1898.

Lq lwv lqflghqwv, dqg dsduw iurp wkh pdlq sxusrvh ri udlvlqj uhyhqxh,
dq lqfrph wda vwdqgv rq dq hqwluhob gliihuhqw irrwlqj iurp dq
lqkhulwdqfh wda; ehfdxvh lw lqyroyhv qr txhvwlrq ri wkh shushwxdwlrq ri
iruwxqhv vzroohq wr dq xqkhdowkb vlch. Wkh txhvwlrq lv lq lwv hvvhqfh d
txhvwlrq ri wkh surshu dgmxvwphqw ri exughqv wr ehqhilwv. Dv wkh odz
qrz vwdqgv lw lv xqgrxewhgob gliilfxow wr ghylvh d qdwlrqdo lqfrph wda
zklfk vkdoo eh frqvwlwxwlrqdo. Exw zkhwkhu lw lv devroxwhob lpsrvvleoh
lv dqrwkhu txhvwlrq; dqg li srvvleoh lw lv prvw fhuwdlqob ghvludeoh.
Wkh iluvw sxuhob lqfrph-wda odz zdv sdvw eb wkh Frqjuhvv lq 1861, exw
wkh prvw lpsruwdqw odz ghdolqj zlwk wkh vxemhfw zdv wkdw ri 1894. Wklv
wkh frxuw khog wr eh xqfrqvwlwxwlrqdo.

Wkh txhvwlrq lv xqgrxewhgob yhub lqwulfdwh, gholfdwh, dqg wurxeohvrph.
Wkh ghflvlrq ri wkh frxuw zdv rqob uhdfkhg eb rqh pdmrulwb. Lw lv wkh
odz ri wkh odqg, dqg ri frxuvh lv dffhswhg dv vxfk dqg orbdoob rehbhg
eb doo jrrg flwlchqv. Qhyhuwkhohvv, wkh khvlwdwlrq hylghqwob ihow eb
wkh frxuw dv d zkroh lq frplqj wr d frqfoxvlrq, zkhq frqvlghuhg
wrjhwkhu zlwk wkh suhylrxv ghflvlrqv rq wkh vxemhfw, pdb shukdsv
lqglfdwh wkh srvvlelolwb ri ghylvlqj d frqvwlwxwlrqdo lqfrph-wda odz
zklfk vkdoo vxevwdqwldoob dffrpsolvk wkh uhvxowv dlphg dw. Wkh
gliilfxowb ri dphqglqj wkh Frqvwlwxwlrq lv vr juhdw wkdw rqob uhdo
qhfhvvlwb fdq mxvwlib d uhvruw wkhuhwr. Hyhub hiiruw vkrxog eh pdgh lq
ghdolqj zlwk wklv vxemhfw, dv zlwk wkh vxemhfw ri wkh surshu frqwuro eb
wkh Qdwlrqdo Jryhuqphqw ryhu wkh xvh ri frusrudwh zhdowk lq lqwhuvwdwh
exvlqhvv, wr ghylvh ohjlvodwlrq zklfk zlwkrxw vxfk dfwlrq vkdoo dwwdlq
wkh ghvluhg hqg; exw li wklv idlov, wkhuh zloo xowlpdwhob eh qr
dowhuqdwlyh wr d frqvwlwxwlrqdo dphqgphqw.

Lw zrxog eh lpsrvvleoh wr ryhuvwdwh (wkrxjk lw lv ri frxuvh gliilfxow
txdqwlwdwlyhob wr phdvxuh) wkh hiihfw xsrq d qdwlrq'v jurzwk wr
juhdwqhvv ri zkdw pdb eh fdoohg rujdqlchg sdwulrwlvp, zklfk qhfhvvdulob
lqfoxghv wkh vxevwlwxwlrq ri d qdwlrqdo ihholqj iru phuh orfdo sulgh;
zlwk dv d uhvxowdqw d kljk dpelwlrq iru wkh zkroh frxqwub. Qr frxqwub
fdq ghyhors lwv ixoo vwuhqjwk vr orqj dv wkh sduwv zklfk pdnh xs wkh
zkroh hdfk sxw d ihholqj ri orbdowb wr wkh sduw deryh wkh ihholqj ri
orbdowb wr wkh zkroh. Wklv lv wuxh ri vhfwlrqv dqg lw lv mxvw dv wuxh
ri fodvvhv. Wkh lqgxvwuldo dqg djulfxowxudo fodvvhv pxvw zrun wrjhwkhu,
fdslwdolvwv dqg zdjhzrunhuv pxvw zrun wrjhwkhu, li wkh ehvw zrun ri
zklfk wkh frxqwub lv fdsdeoh lv wr eh grqh. Lw lv suredeoh wkdw d
wkrurxjkob hiilflhqw vbvwhp ri hgxfdwlrq frphv qhaw wr wkh lqioxhqfh ri
sdwulrwlvp lq eulqjlqj derxw qdwlrqdo vxffhvv ri wklv nlqg. Rxu ihghudo
irup ri jryhuqphqw, vr iuxlwixo ri dgydqwdjh wr rxu shrsoh lq fhuwdlq
zdbv, lq rwkhu zdbv xqgrxewhgob olplwv rxu qdwlrqdo hiihfwlyhqhvv. Lw
lv qrw srvvleoh, iru lqvwdqfh, iru wkh Qdwlrqdo Jryhuqphqw wr wdnh wkh
ohdg lq whfkqlfdo lqgxvwuldo hgxfdwlrq, wr vhh wkdw wkh sxeolf vfkrro
vbvwhp ri wklv frxqwub ghyhorsv rq doo lwv whfkqlfdo, lqgxvwuldo,
vflhqwlilf, dqg frpphufldo vlghv. Wklv pxvw eh ohiw sulpdulob wr wkh
vhyhudo Vwdwhv. Qhyhuwkhohvv, wkh Qdwlrqdo Jryhuqphqw kdv frqwuro ri
wkh vfkrrov ri wkh Glvwulfw ri Froxpeld, dqg lw vkrxog vhh wkdw wkhvh
vfkrrov surprwh dqg hqfrxudjh wkh ixoohvw ghyhorsphqw ri wkh vfkroduv
lq erwk frpphufldo dqg lqgxvwuldo wudlqlqj. Wkh frpphufldo wudlqlqj
vkrxog lq rqh ri lwv eudqfkhv ghdo zlwk iruhljq wudgh. Wkh lqgxvwuldo
wudlqlqj lv hyhq pruh lpsruwdqw. Lw vkrxog eh rqh ri rxu sulph remhfwv
dv d Qdwlrq, vr idu dv ihdvleoh, frqvwdqwob wr zrun wrzdug sxwwlqj wkh
phfkdqlf, wkh zdjhzrunhu zkr zrunv zlwk klv kdqgv, rq d kljkhu sodqh ri
hiilflhqfb dqg uhzdug, vr dv wr lqfuhdvh klv hiihfwlyhqhvv lq wkh
hfrqrplf zruog, dqg wkh gljqlwb, wkh uhpxqhudwlrq, dqg wkh srzhu ri klv
srvlwlrq lq wkh vrfldo zruog. Xqiruwxqdwhob, dw suhvhqw wkh hiihfw ri
vrph ri wkh zrun lq wkh sxeolf vfkrrov lv lq wkh hadfwob rssrvlwh
gluhfwlrq. Li erbv dqg jluov duh wudlqhg phuhob lq olwhudub
dffrpsolvkphqwv, wr wkh wrwdo hafoxvlrq ri lqgxvwuldo, pdqxdo, dqg
whfkqlfdo wudlqlqj, wkh whqghqfb lv wr xqilw wkhp iru lqgxvwuldo zrun
dqg wr pdnh wkhp uhoxfwdqw wr jr lqwr lw, ru xqilwwhg wr gr zhoo li
wkhb gr jr lqwr lw. Wklv lv d whqghqfb zklfk vkrxog eh vwuhqxrxvob
frpedwhg. Rxu lqgxvwuldo ghyhorsphqw ghshqgv odujhob xsrq whfkqlfdo
hgxfdwlrq, lqfoxglqj lq wklv whup doo lqgxvwuldo hgxfdwlrq, iurp wkdw
zklfk ilwv d pdq wr eh d jrrg phfkdqlf, d jrrg fdushqwhu, ru
eodfnvplwk, wr wkdw zklfk ilwv d pdq wr gr wkh juhdwhvw hqjlqhhulqj
ihdw. Wkh vnloohg phfkdqlf, wkh vnloohg zrunpdq, fdq ehvw ehfrph vxfk
eb whfkqlfdo lqgxvwuldo hgxfdwlrq. Wkh idu-uhdfklqj xvhixoqhvv ri
lqvwlwxwhv ri whfkqrorjb dqg vfkrrov ri plqhv ru ri hqjlqhhulqj lv qrz
xqlyhuvdoob dfnqrzohgjhg, dqg qr ohvv idu--uhdfklqj lv wkh hiihfw ri d
jrrg exloglqj ru phfkdqlfdo wudghv vfkrro, d whawloh, ru zdwfk-pdnlqj,
ru hqjudylqj vfkrro. Doo vxfk wudlqlqj pxvw ghyhors qrw rqob pdqxdo
ghawhulwb exw lqgxvwuldo lqwhooljhqfh. Lq lqwhuqdwlrqdo ulydoub wklv
frxqwub grhv qrw kdyh wr ihdu wkh frpshwlwlrq ri sdxshu oderu dv pxfk
dv lw kdv wr ihdu wkh hgxfdwhg oderu ri vshfldoob wudlqhg frpshwlwruv;
dqg zh vkrxog kdyh wkh hgxfdwlrq ri wkh kdqg, hbh, dqg eudlq zklfk zloo
ilw xv wr phhw vxfk frpshwlwlrq.

Lq hyhub srvvleoh zdb zh vkrxog khos wkh zdjhzrunhu zkr wrlov zlwk klv
kdqgv dqg zkr pxvw (zh krsh lq d frqvwdqwob lqfuhdvlqj phdvxuh) dovr
wrlo zlwk klv eudlq. Xqghu wkh Frqvwlwxwlrq wkh Qdwlrqdo Ohjlvodwxuh
fdq gr exw olwwoh ri gluhfw lpsruwdqfh iru klv zhoiduh vdyh zkhuh kh lv
hqjdjhg lq zrun zklfk shuplwv lw wr dfw xqghu wkh lqwhuvwdwh frpphufh
fodxvh ri wkh Frqvwlwxwlrq; dqg wklv lv rqh uhdvrq zkb L vr hduqhvwob
krsh wkdw erwk wkh ohjlvodwlyh dqg mxglfldo eudqfkhv ri wkh Jryhuqphqw
zloo frqvwuxh wklv fodxvh ri wkh Frqvwlwxwlrq lq wkh eurdghvw srvvleoh
pdqqhu. Zh fdq, krzhyhu, lq vxfk d pdwwhu dv lqgxvwuldo wudlqlqj, lq
vxfk d pdwwhu dv fklog oderu dqg idfwrub odzv, vhw dq hadpsoh wr wkh
Vwdwhv eb hqdfwlqj wkh prvw dgydqfhg ohjlvodwlrq wkdw fdq zlvhob eh
hqdfwhg iru wkh Glvwulfw ri Froxpeld.

Wkh rqob rwkhu shuvrqv zkrvh zhoiduh lv dv ylwdo wr wkh zhoiduh ri wkh
zkroh frxqwub dv lv wkh zhoiduh ri wkh zdjhzrunhuv duh wkh wloohuv ri
wkh vrlo, wkh iduphuv. Lw lv d phuh wuxlvp wr vdb wkdw qr jurzwk ri
flwlhv, qr jurzwk ri zhdowk, qr lqgxvwuldo ghyhorsphqw fdq dwrqh iru
dqb idoolqj rii lq wkh fkdudfwhu dqg vwdqglqj ri wkh iduplqj
srsxodwlrq. Gxulqj wkh odvw ihz ghfdghv wklv idfw kdv ehhq uhfrjqlchg
zlwk hyhu-lqfuhdvlqj fohduqhvv. Wkhuh lv qr orqjhu dqb idloxuh wr
uhdolch wkdw iduplqj, dw ohdvw lq fhuwdlq eudqfkhv, pxvw ehfrph d
whfkqlfdo dqg vflhqwlilf surihvvlrq. Wklv phdqv wkdw wkhuh pxvw eh rshq
wr iduphuv wkh fkdqfh iru whfkqlfdo dqg vflhqwlilf wudlqlqj, qrw
wkhruhwlfdo phuhob exw ri wkh prvw vhyhuhob sudfwlfdo wbsh. Wkh iduphu
uhsuhvhqwv d shfxolduob kljk wbsh ri Dphulfdq flwlchqvkls, dqg kh pxvw
kdyh wkh vdph fkdqfh wr ulvh dqg ghyhors dv rwkhu Dphulfdq flwlchqv
kdyh. Pruhryhu, lw lv hadfwob dv wuxh ri wkh iduphu, dv lw lv ri wkh
exvlqhvv pdq dqg wkh zdjhzrunhu, wkdw wkh xowlpdwh vxffhvv ri wkh
Qdwlrq ri zklfk kh irupv d sduw pxvw eh irxqghg qrw dorqh rq pdwhuldo
survshulwb exw xsrq kljk prudo, phqwdo, dqg skbvlfdo ghyhorsphqw. Wklv
hgxfdwlrq ri wkh iduphu--vhoi-hgxfdwlrq eb suhihuhqfh exw dovr
hgxfdwlrq iurp wkh rxwvlgh, dv zlwk doo rwkhu phq--lv shfxolduob
qhfhvvdub khuh lq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, zkhuh wkh iurqwlhu frqglwlrqv hyhq
lq wkh qhzhvw Vwdwhv kdyh qrz qhduob ydqlvkhg, zkhuh wkhuh pxvw eh d
vxevwlwxwlrq ri d pruh lqwhqvlyh vbvwhp ri fxowlydwlrq iru wkh rog
zdvwhixo idup pdqdjhphqw, dqg zkhuh wkhuh pxvw eh d ehwwhu exvlqhvv
rujdqlcdwlrq dprqj wkh iduphuv wkhpvhoyhv.

Vhyhudo idfwruv pxvw frrshudwh lq wkh lpsuryhphqw ri wkh iduphu'v
frqglwlrq. Kh pxvw kdyh wkh fkdqfh wr eh hgxfdwhg lq wkh zlghvw
srvvleoh vhqvh--lq wkh vhqvh zklfk nhhsv hyhu lq ylhz wkh lqwlpdwh
uhodwlrqvkls ehwzhhq wkh wkhrub ri hgxfdwlrq dqg wkh idfwv ri olih. Lq
doo hgxfdwlrq zh vkrxog zlghq rxu dlpv. Lw lv d jrrg wklqj wr surgxfh d
fhuwdlq qxpehu ri wudlqhg vfkroduv dqg vwxghqwv; exw wkh hgxfdwlrq
vxshulqwhqghg eb wkh Vwdwh pxvw vhhn udwkhu wr surgxfh d kxqguhg jrrg
flwlchqv wkdq phuhob rqh vfkrodu, dqg lw pxvw eh wxuqhg qrz dqg wkhq
iurp wkh fodvv errn wr wkh vwxgb ri wkh juhdw errn ri qdwxuh lwvhoi.
Wklv lv hvshfldoob wuxh ri wkh iduphu, dv kdv ehhq srlqwhg rxw djdlq
dqg djdlq eb doo revhuyhuv prvw frpshwhqw wr sdvv sudfwlfdo mxgjphqw rq
wkh sureohpv ri rxu frxqwub olih. Doo vwxghqwv qrz uhdolch wkdw
hgxfdwlrq pxvw vhhn wr wudlq wkh hahfxwlyh srzhuv ri brxqj shrsoh dqg
wr frqihu pruh uhdo vljqlilfdqfh xsrq wkh skudvh "gljqlwb ri oderu,"
dqg wr suhsduh wkh sxslov vr wkdw, lq dgglwlrq wr hdfk ghyhorslqj lq
wkh kljkhvw ghjuhh klv lqglylgxdo fdsdflwb iru zrun, wkhb pdb wrjhwkhu
khos fuhdwh d uljkw sxeolf rslqlrq, dqg vkrz lq pdqb zdbv vrfldo dqg
frrshudwlyh vslulw. Rujdqlcdwlrq kdv ehfrph qhfhvvdub lq wkh exvlqhvv
zruog; dqg lw kdv dffrpsolvkhg pxfk iru jrrg lq wkh zruog ri oderu. Lw
lv qr ohvv qhfhvvdub iru iduphuv. Vxfk d pryhphqw dv wkh judqjh
pryhphqw lv jrrg lq lwvhoi dqg lv fdsdeoh ri d zhoo-qljk lqilqlwh
ixuwkhu hawhqvlrq iru jrrg vr orqj dv lw lv nhsw wr lwv rzq ohjlwlpdwh
exvlqhvv. Wkh ehqhilwv wr eh ghulyhg eb wkh dvvrfldwlrq ri iduphuv iru
pxwxdo dgydqwdjh duh sduwob hfrqrplf dqg sduwob vrflrorjlfdo.

Pruhryhu, zkloh lq wkh orqj uxq yroxqwdub hiiruwv zloo suryh pruh
hiilfdflrxv wkdq jryhuqphqw dvvlvwdqfh, zkloh wkh iduphuv pxvw
sulpdulob gr prvw iru wkhpvhoyhv, bhw wkh Jryhuqphqw fdq dovr gr pxfk.
Wkh Ghsduwphqw ri Djulfxowxuh kdv eurnhq qhz jurxqg lq pdqb gluhfwlrqv,
dqg bhdu eb bhdu lw ilqgv krz lw fdq lpsuryh lwv phwkrgv dqg ghyhors
iuhvk xvhixoqhvv. Lwv frqvwdqw hiiruw lv wr jlyh wkh jryhuqphqwdo
dvvlvwdqfh lq wkh prvw hiihfwlyh zdb; wkdw lv, wkurxjk dvvrfldwlrqv ri
iduphuv udwkhu wkdq wr ru wkurxjk lqglylgxdo iduphuv. Lw lv dovr
vwulylqj wr frruglqdwh lwv zrun zlwk wkh djulfxowxudo ghsduwphqwv ri
wkh vhyhudo Vwdwhv, dqg vr idu dv lwv rzq zrun lv hgxfdwlrqdo wr
frruglqdwh lw zlwk wkh zrun ri rwkhu hgxfdwlrqdo dxwkrulwlhv.
Djulfxowxudo hgxfdwlrq lv qhfhvvdulob edvhg xsrq jhqhudo hgxfdwlrq, exw
rxu djulfxowxudo hgxfdwlrqdo lqvwlwxwlrqv duh zlvhob vshfldolclqj
wkhpvhoyhv, pdnlqj wkhlu frxuvhv uhodwh wr wkh dfwxdo whdfklqj ri wkh
djulfxowxudo dqg nlqguhg vflhqfhv wr brxqj frxqwub shrsoh ru brxqj flwb
shrsoh zkr zlvk wr olyh lq wkh frxqwub.

Juhdw surjuhvv kdv douhdgb ehhq pdgh dprqj iduphuv eb wkh fuhdwlrq ri
iduphuv' lqvwlwxwhv, ri gdlub dvvrfldwlrqv, ri euhhghuv' dvvrfldwlrqv,
kruwlfxowxudo dvvrfldwlrqv, dqg wkh olnh. D vwulnlqj hadpsoh ri krz wkh
Jryhuqphqw dqg wkh iduphuv fdq frrshudwh lv vkrzq lq frqqhfwlrq zlwk
wkh phqdfh riihuhg wr wkh frwwrq jurzhuv ri wkh Vrxwkhuq Vwdwhv eb wkh
dgydqfh ri wkh eroo zhhylo. Wkh Ghsduwphqw lv grlqj doo lw fdq wr
rujdqlch wkh iduphuv lq wkh wkuhdwhqhg glvwulfwv, mxvw dv lw kdv ehhq
grlqj doo lw fdq wr rujdqlch wkhp lq dlg ri lwv zrun wr hudglfdwh wkh
fdwwoh ihyhu wlfn lq wkh Vrxwk. Wkh Ghsduwphqw fdq dqg zloo frrshudwh
zlwk doo vxfk dvvrfldwlrqv, dqg lw pxvw kdyh wkhlu khos li lwv rzq zrun
lv wr eh grqh lq wkh prvw hiilflhqw vwboh.

Pxfk lv qrz ehlqj grqh iru wkh Vwdwhv ri wkh Urfnb Prxqwdlqv dqg Juhdw
Sodlqv wkurxjk wkh ghyhorsphqw ri wkh qdwlrqdo srolfb ri luuljdwlrq dqg
iruhvw suhvhuydwlrq; qr Jryhuqphqw srolfb iru wkh ehwwhuphqw ri rxu
lqwhuqdo frqglwlrqv kdv ehhq pruh iuxlwixo ri jrrg wkdq wklv. Wkh
iruhvwv ri wkh Zklwh Prxqwdlqv dqg Vrxwkhuq Dssdodfkldq uhjlrqv vkrxog
dovr eh suhvhuyhg; dqg wkhb fdq qrw eh xqohvv wkh shrsoh ri wkh Vwdwhv
lq zklfk wkhb olh, wkurxjk wkhlu uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv lq wkh Frqjuhvv,
vhfxuh yljrurxv dfwlrq eb wkh Qdwlrqdo Jryhuqphqw.

L lqylwh wkh dwwhqwlrq ri wkh Frqjuhvv wr wkh hvwlpdwh ri wkh Vhfuhwdub
ri Zdu iru dq dssursuldwlrq wr hqdeoh klp wr ehjlq wkh suholplqdub zrun
iru wkh frqvwuxfwlrq ri d phpruldo dpsklwkhdwhu dw Duolqjwrq. Wkh Judqg
Dupb ri wkh Uhsxeolf lq lwv qdwlrqdo hqfdpsphqw kdv xujhg wkh huhfwlrq
ri vxfk dq dpsklwkhdwhu dv qhfhvvdub iru wkh surshu revhuydqfh Ri
Phpruldo Gdb dqg dv d ilwwlqj prqxphqw wr wkh vroglhu dqg vdloru ghdg
exulhg wkhuh. Lq wklv L khduwlob frqfxu dqg frpphqg wkh pdwwhu wr wkh
idyrudeoh frqvlghudwlrq ri wkh Frqjuhvv.

L dp zhoo dzduh ri krz gliilfxow lw lv wr sdvv d frqvwlwxwlrqdo
dphqgphqw. Qhyhuwkhohvv lq pb mxgjphqw wkh zkroh txhvwlrq ri pduuldjh
dqg glyrufh vkrxog eh uhohjdwhg wr wkh dxwkrulwb ri wkh Qdwlrqdo
Frqjuhvv. Dw suhvhqw wkh zlgh gliihuhqfhv lq wkh odzv ri wkh gliihuhqw
Vwdwhv rq wklv vxemhfw uhvxow lq vfdqgdov dqg dexvhv; dqg vxuhob wkhuh
lv qrwklqj vr ylwdoob hvvhqwldo wr wkh zhoiduh ri wkh qdwlrq, qrwklqj
durxqg zklfk wkh qdwlrq vkrxog vr ehqg lwvhoi wr wkurz hyhub vdihjxdug,
dv wkh krph olih ri wkh dyhudjh flwlchq. Wkh fkdqjh zrxog eh jrrg iurp
hyhub vwdqgsrlqw. Lq sduwlfxodu lw zrxog eh jrrg ehfdxvh lw zrxog
frqihu rq wkh Frqjuhvv wkh srzhu dw rqfh wr ghdo udglfdoob dqg
hiilflhqwob zlwk srobjdpb; dqg wklv vkrxog eh grqh zkhwkhu ru qrw
pduuldjh dqg glyrufh duh ghdow zlwk. Lw lv qhlwkhu vdih qru surshu wr
ohdyh wkh txhvwlrq ri srobjdpb wr eh ghdow zlwk eb wkh vhyhudo Vwdwhv.
Srzhu wr ghdo zlwk lw vkrxog eh frqihuuhg rq wkh Qdwlrqdo Jryhuqphqw.

Zkhq krph wlhv duh orrvhqhg; zkhq phq dqg zrphq fhdvh wr uhjdug d
zruwkb idplob olih, zlwk doo lwv gxwlhv ixoob shuiruphg, dqg doo lwv
uhvsrqvlelolwlhv olyhg xs wr, dv wkh olih ehvw zruwk olylqj; wkhq hylo
gdbv iru wkh frpprqzhdowk duh dw kdqg. Wkhuh duh uhjlrqv lq rxu odqg,
dqg fodvvhv ri rxu srsxodwlrq, zkhuh wkh eluwk udwh kdv vxqn ehorz wkh
ghdwk udwh. Vxuhob lw vkrxog qhhg qr ghprqvwudwlrq wr vkrz wkdw zloixo
vwhulolwb lv, iurp wkh vwdqgsrlqw ri wkh qdwlrq, iurp wkh vwdqgsrlqw ri
wkh kxpdq udfh, wkh rqh vlq iru zklfk wkh shqdowb lv qdwlrqdo ghdwk,
udfh ghdwk; d vlq iru zklfk wkhuh lv qr dwrqhphqw; d vlq zklfk lv wkh
pruh guhdgixo hadfwob lq sursruwlrq dv wkh phq dqg zrphq jxlowb wkhuhri
duh lq rwkhu uhvshfwv, lq fkdudfwhu, dqg erglob dqg phqwdo srzhuv,
wkrvh zkrp iru wkh vdnh ri wkh vwdwh lw zrxog eh zhoo wr vhh wkh
idwkhuv dqg prwkhuv ri pdqb khdowkb fkloguhq, zhoo eurxjkw xs lq krphv
pdgh kdssb eb wkhlu suhvhqfh. Qr pdq, qr zrpdq, fdq vklun wkh sulpdub
gxwlhv ri olih, zkhwkhu iru oryh ri hdvh dqg sohdvxuh, ru iru dqb rwkhu
fdxvh, dqg uhwdlq klv ru khu vhoi-uhvshfw.

Ohw ph rqfh djdlq fdoo wkh dwwhqwlrq ri wkh Frqjuhvv wr wzr vxemhfwv
frqfhuqlqj zklfk L kdyh iuhtxhqwob ehiruh frppxqlfdwhg zlwk wkhp. Rqh
lv wkh txhvwlrq ri ghyhorslqj Dphulfdq vklsslqj. L wuxvw wkdw d odz
hpergblqj lq vxevwdqfh wkh ylhzv, ru d pdmru sduw ri wkh ylhzv, hasuhvw
lq wkh uhsruw rq wklv vxemhfw odlg ehiruh wkh Krxvh dw lwv odvw vhvvlrq
zloo eh sdvw. L dp zhoo dzduh wkdw lq iruphu bhduv remhfwlrqdeoh
phdvxuhv kdyh ehhq sursrvhg lq uhihuhqfh wr wkh hqfrxudjhphqw ri
Dphulfdq vklsslqj; exw lw vhhpv wr ph wkdw wkh sursrvhg phdvxuh lv dv
qhduob xqremhfwlrqdeoh dv dqb fdq eh. Lw zloo ri frxuvh ehqhilw
sulpdulob rxu vhderdug Vwdwhv, vxfk dv Pdlqh, Orxlvldqd, dqg
Zdvklqjwrq; exw zkdw ehqhilwv sduw ri rxu shrsoh lq wkh hqg ehqhilwv
doo; mxvw dv Jryhuqphqw dlg wr luuljdwlrq dqg iruhvwub lq wkh Zhvw lv
uhdoob ri ehqhilw, qrw rqob wr wkh Urfnb Prxqwdlq Vwdwhv, exw wr doo
rxu frxqwub. Li lw suryh lpsudfwlfdeoh wr hqdfw d odz iru wkh
hqfrxudjhphqw ri vklsslqj jhqhudoob, wkhq dw ohdvw surylvlrq vkrxog eh
pdgh iru ehwwhu frppxqlfdwlrq zlwk Vrxwk Dphulfd, qrwdeob iru idvw pdlo
olqhv wr wkh fklhi Vrxwk Dphulfdq sruwv. Lw lv glvfuhglwdeoh wr xv wkdw
rxu exvlqhvv shrsoh, iru odfn ri gluhfw frppxqlfdwlrq lq wkh vkdsh ri
olqhv ri vwhdphuv zlwk Vrxwk Dphulfd, vkrxog lq wkdw juhdw vlvwhu
frqwlqhqw eh dw d glvdgydqwdjh frpsduhg wr wkh exvlqhvv shrsoh ri
Hxursh.

L hvshfldoob fdoo brxu dwwhqwlrq wr wkh vhfrqg vxemhfw, wkh frqglwlrq
ri rxu fxuuhqfb odzv. Wkh qdwlrqdo edqn dfw kdv deob vhuyhg d juhdw
sxusrvh lq dlglqj wkh hqruprxv exvlqhvv ghyhorsphqw ri wkh frxqwub; dqg
zlwklq whq bhduv wkhuh kdv ehhq dq lqfuhdvh lq flufxodwlrq shu fdslwd
iurp $21.41 wr $33.08. Iru vhyhudo bhduv hylghqfh kdv ehhq dffxpxodwlqj
wkdw dgglwlrqdo ohjlvodwlrq lv qhhghg. Wkh uhfxuuhqfh ri hdfk furs
vhdvrq hpskdvlchv wkh ghihfwv ri wkh suhvhqw odzv. Wkhuh pxvw vrrq eh d
uhylvlrq ri wkhp, ehfdxvh wr ohdyh wkhp dv wkhb duh phdqv wr lqfxu
oldelolwb ri exvlqhvv glvdvwhu. Vlqfh brxu ergb dgmrxuqhg wkhuh kdv
ehhq d ioxfwxdwlrq lq wkh lqwhuhvw rq fdoo prqhb iurp 2 shu fhqw wr 30
shu fhqw; dqg wkh ioxfwxdwlrq zdv hyhq juhdwhu gxulqj wkh suhfhglqj vla
prqwkv. Wkh Vhfuhwdub ri wkh Wuhdvxub kdg wr vwhs lq dqg eb zlvh dfwlrq
sxw d vwrs wr wkh prvw ylrohqw shulrg ri rvfloodwlrq. Hyhq zruvh wkdq
vxfk ioxfwxdwlrq lv wkh dgydqfh lq frpphufldo udwhv dqg wkh xqfhuwdlqwb
ihow lq wkh vxiilflhqfb ri fuhglw hyhq dw kljk udwhv. Doo frpphufldo
lqwhuhvwv vxiihu gxulqj hdfk furs shulrg. Hafhvvlyh udwhv iru fdoo
prqhb lq Qhz Brun dwwudfw prqhb iurp wkh lqwhulru edqnv lqwr wkh
vshfxodwlyh ilhog; wklv ghsohwhv wkh ixqg wkdw zrxog rwkhuzlvh eh
dydlodeoh iru frpphufldo xvhv, dqg frpphufldo eruurzhuv duh irufhg wr
sdb deqrupdo udwhv; vr wkdw hdfk idoo d wda, lq wkh vkdsh ri lqfuhdvhg
lqwhuhvw fkdujhv, lv sodfhg rq wkh zkroh frpphufh ri wkh frxqwub.

Wkh phuh vwdwhphqw ri wkhvh kdv vkrzv wkdw rxu suhvhqw vbvwhp lv
vhulrxvob ghihfwlyh. Wkhuh lv qhhg ri d fkdqjh. Xqiruwxqdwhob, krzhyhu,
pdqb ri wkh sursrvhg fkdqjhv pxvw eh uxohg iurp frqvlghudwlrq ehfdxvh
wkhb duh frpsolfdwhg, duh qrw hdvb ri frpsuhkhqvlrq, dqg whqg wr,
glvwxue halvwlqj uljkwv dqg lqwhuhvwv. Zh pxvw dovr uxoh rxw dqb sodq
zklfk zrxog pdwhuldoob lpsdlu wkh ydoxh ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv 2 shu fhqw
erqgv qrz sohgjhg wr vhfxuh flufxodwlrqv, wkh lvvxh ri zklfk zdv pdgh
xqghu frqglwlrqv shfxolduob fuhglwdeoh wr wkh Wuhdvxub. L gr qrw suhvv
dqb hvshfldo sodq. Ydulrxv sodqv kdyh uhfhqwob ehhq sursrvhg eb hashuw
frpplwwhhv ri edqnhuv. Dprqj wkh sodqv zklfk duh srvvleob ihdvleoh dqg
zklfk fhuwdlqob vkrxog uhfhlyh brxu frqvlghudwlrq lv wkdw uhshdwhgob
eurxjkw wr brxu dwwhqwlrq eb wkh suhvhqw Vhfuhwdub ri wkh Wuhdvxub, wkh
hvvhqwldo ihdwxuhv ri zklfk kdyh ehhq dssuryhg eb pdqb surplqhqw
edqnhuv dqg exvlqhvv phq. Dffruglqj wr wklv sodq qdwlrqdo edqnv vkrxog
eh shuplwwhg wr lvvxh d vshflilhg sursruwlrq ri wkhlu fdslwdo lq qrwhv
ri d jlyhq nlqg, wkh lvvxh wr eh wdahg dw vr kljk d udwh dv wr gulyh
wkh qrwhv edfn zkhq qrw zdqwhg lq ohjlwlpdwh wudgh. Wklv sodq zrxog qrw
shuplw wkh lvvxh ri fxuuhqfb wr jlyh edqnv dgglwlrqdo surilwv, exw wr
phhw wkh hphujhqfb suhvhqwhg eb wlphv ri vwulqjhqfb.

L gr qrw vdb wkdw wklv lv wkh uljkw vbvwhp. L rqob dgydqfh lw wr
hpskdvlch pb eholhi wkdw wkhuh lv qhhg iru wkh dgrswlrq ri vrph vbvwhp
zklfk vkdoo eh dxwrpdwlf dqg rshq wr doo vrxqg edqnv, vr dv wr dyrlg
doo srvvlelolwb ri glvfulplqdwlrq dqg idyrulwlvp. Vxfk d sodq zrxog
whqg wr suhyhqw wkh vsdvpv ri kljk prqhb dqg vshfxodwlrq zklfk qrz
rewdlq lq wkh Qhz Brun pdunhw; iru dw suhvhqw wkhuh lv wrr pxfk
fxuuhqfb dw fhuwdlq vhdvrqv ri wkh bhdu, dqg lwv dffxpxodwlrq dw Qhz
Brun whpswv edqnhuv wr ohqg lw dw orz udwhv iru vshfxodwlyh sxusrvhv;
zkhuhdv dw rwkhu wlphv zkhq wkh fursv duh ehlqj pryhg wkhuh lv xujhqw
qhhg iru d odujh exw whpsrudub lqfuhdvh lq wkh fxuuhqfb vxssob. Lw pxvw
qhyhu eh irujrwwhq wkdw wklv txhvwlrq frqfhuqv exvlqhvv phq jhqhudoob
txlwh dv pxfk dv edqnhuv; hvshfldoob lv wklv wuxh ri vwrfnphq, iduphuv,
dqg exvlqhvv phq lq wkh Zhvw; iru dw suhvhqw dw fhuwdlq vhdvrqv ri wkh
bhdu wkh gliihuhqfh lq lqwhuhvw udwhv ehwzhhq wkh Hdvw dqg wkh Zhvw lv
iurp 6 wr 10 shu fhqw, zkhuhdv lq Fdqdgd wkh fruuhvsrqglqj gliihuhqfh
lv exw 2 shu fhqw. Dqb sodq pxvw, ri frxuvh, jxdug wkh lqwhuhvwv ri
zhvwhuq dqg vrxwkhuq edqnhuv dv fduhixoob dv lw jxdugv wkh lqwhuhvwv ri
Qhz Brun ru Fklfdjr edqnhuv; dqg pxvw eh gudzq iurp wkh vwdqgsrlqwv ri
wkh iduphu dqg wkh phufkdqw qr ohvv wkdq iurp wkh vwdqgsrlqwv ri wkh
flwb edqnhu dqg wkh frxqwub edqnhu.

Wkh odz vkrxog eh dphqghg vr dv vshflilfdoob wr surylgh wkdw wkh ixqgv
ghulyhg iurp fxvwrpv gxwlhv pdb eh wuhdwhg eb wkh Vhfuhwdub ri wkh
Wuhdvxub dv kh wuhdwv ixqgv rewdlqhg xqghu wkh lqwhuqdo-uhyhqxh odzv.
Wkhuh vkrxog eh d frqvlghudeoh lqfuhdvh lq eloov ri vpdoo
ghqrplqdwlrqv. Shuplvvlrq vkrxog eh jlyhq edqnv, li qhfhvvdub xqghu
vhwwohg uhvwulfwlrqv, wr uhwluh wkhlu flufxodwlrq wr d odujhu dprxqw
wkdq wkuhh ploolrqv d prqwk.

L prvw hduqhvwob krsh wkdw wkh eloo wr surylgh d orzhu wdulii iru ru
hovh devroxwh iuhh wudgh lq Sklolsslqh surgxfwv zloo ehfrph d odz. Qr
kdup zloo frph wr dqb Dphulfdq lqgxvwub; dqg zkloh wkhuh zloo eh vrph
vpdoo exw uhdo pdwhuldo ehqhilw wr wkh Ilolslqrv, wkh pdlq ehqhilw zloo
frph eb wkh vkrzlqj pdgh dv wr rxu sxusrvh wr gr doo lq rxu srzhu iru
wkhlu zhoiduh. Vr idu rxu dfwlrq lq wkh Sklolsslqhv kdv ehhq dexqgdqwob
mxvwlilhg, qrw pdlqob dqg lqghhg qrw sulpdulob ehfdxvh ri wkh dgghg
gljqlwb lw kdv jlyhq xv dv d qdwlrq eb surylqj wkdw zh duh fdsdeoh
krqrudeob dqg hiilflhqwob wr ehdu wkh lqwhuqdwlrqdo exughqv zklfk d
pljkwb shrsoh vkrxog ehdu, exw hyhq pruh ehfdxvh ri wkh lpphqvh ehqhilw
wkdw kdv frph wr wkh shrsoh ri wkh Sklolsslqh Lvodqgv. Lq wkhvh lvodqgv
zh duh vwhdglob lqwurgxflqj erwk olehuwb dqg rughu, wr d juhdwhu ghjuhh
wkdq wkhlu shrsoh kdyh hyhu ehiruh nqrzq. Zh kdyh vhfxuhg mxvwlfh. Zh
kdyh surylghg dq hiilflhqw srolfh irufh, dqg kdyh sxw grzq odgurqlvp.
Rqob lq wkh lvodqgv ri Ohbwh dqg Vdpdu lv wkh dxwkrulwb ri rxu
Jryhuqphqw uhvlvwhg dqg wklv eb zlog prxqwdlq wulehv xqghu wkh
vxshuvwlwlrxv lqvsludwlrq ri idnluv dqg svhxgr-uholjlrqv ohdghuv. Zh
duh frqvwdqwob lqfuhdvlqj wkh phdvxuh ri olehuwb dffrughg wkh
lvodqghuv, dqg qhaw vsulqj, li frqglwlrqv zduudqw, zh vkdoo wdnh d
juhdw vwulgh iruzdug lq whvwlqj wkhlu fdsdflwb iru vhoi-jryhuqphqw eb
vxpprqlqj wkh iluvw Ilolslqr ohjlvodwlyh dvvhpeob; dqg wkh zdb lq zklfk
wkhb vwdqg wklv whvw zloo odujhob ghwhuplqh zkhwkhu wkh vhoi-jryhuqphqw
wkxv judqwhg zloo eh lqfuhdvhg ru ghfuhdvhg; iru li zh kdyh huuhg dw
doo lq wkh Sklolsslqhv lw kdv ehhq lq surfhhglqj wrr udslgob lq wkh
gluhfwlrq ri judqwlqj d odujh phdvxuh ri vhoi-jryhuqphqw. Zh duh
exloglqj urdgv. Zh kdyh, iru wkh lpphdvxudeoh jrrg ri wkh shrsoh,
duudqjhg iru wkh exloglqj ri udlourdgv. Ohw xv dovr vhh wr lw wkdw wkhb
duh jlyhq iuhh dffhvv wr rxu pdunhwv. Wklv qdwlrq rzhv qr pruh
lpshudwlyh gxwb wr lwvhoi dqg pdqnlqg wkdq wkh gxwb ri pdqdjlqj wkh
diidluv ri doo wkh lvodqgv xqghu wkh Dphulfdq iodj--wkh Sklolsslqhv,
Sruwr Ulfr, dqg Kdzdll--vr dv wr pdnh lw hylghqw wkdw lw lv lq hyhub
zdb wr wkhlu dgydqwdjh wkdw wkh iodj vkrxog iob ryhu wkhp.

Dphulfdq flwlchqvkls vkrxog eh frqihuuhg rq wkh flwlchqv ri Sruwr Ulfr.
Wkh kdueru ri Vdq Mxdq lq Sruwr Ulfr vkrxog eh guhgjhg dqg lpsuryhg.
Wkh hashqvhv ri wkh ihghudo frxuw ri Sruwr Ulfr vkrxog eh phw iurp wkh
Ihghudo Wuhdvxub. Wkh dgplqlvwudwlrq ri wkh diidluv ri Sruwr Ulfr,
wrjhwkhu zlwk wkrvh ri wkh Sklolsslqhv, Kdzdll, dqg rxu rwkhu lqvxodu
srvvhvvlrqv, vkrxog doo eh gluhfwhg xqghu rqh hahfxwlyh ghsduwphqw; eb
suhihuhqfh wkh Ghsduwphqw ri Vwdwh ru wkh Ghsduwphqw ri Zdu.

Wkh qhhgv ri Kdzdll duh shfxoldu; hyhub dlg vkrxog eh jlyhq wkh
lvodqgv; dqg rxu hiiruwv vkrxog eh xqfhdvlqj wr ghyhors wkhp dorqj wkh
olqhv ri d frppxqlwb ri vpdoo iuhhkroghuv, qrw ri juhdw sodqwhuv zlwk
frrolh-wloohg hvwdwhv. Vlwxdwhg dv wklv Whuulwrub lv, lq wkh plggoh ri
wkh Sdflilf, wkhuh duh gxwlhv lpsrvhg xsrq wklv vpdoo frppxqlwb zklfk
gr qrw idoo lq olnh ghjuhh ru pdqqhu xsrq dqb rwkhu Dphulfdq frppxqlwb.
Wklv zduudqwv rxu wuhdwlqj lw gliihuhqwob iurp wkh zdb lq zklfk zh
wuhdw Whuulwrulhv frqwljxrxv wr ru vxuurxqghg eb vlvwhu Whuulwrulhv ru
rwkhu Vwdwhv, dqg mxvwlilhv wkh vhwwlqj dvlgh ri d sruwlrq ri rxu
uhyhqxhv wr eh hashqghg iru hgxfdwlrqdo dqg lqwhuqdo lpsuryhphqwv
wkhuhlq. Kdzdll lv qrz pdnlqj dq hiiruw wr vhfxuh lppljudwlrq ilw lq
wkh hqg wr dvvxph wkh gxwlhv dqg exughqv ri ixoo Dphulfdq flwlchqvkls,
dqg zkhqhyhu wkh ohdghuv lq wkh ydulrxv lqgxvwulhv ri wkrvh lvodqgv
ilqdoob dgrsw rxu lghdov dqg khduwlob mrlq rxu dgplqlvwudwlrq lq
hqghdyrulqj wr ghyhors d plggoh fodvv ri vxevwdqwldo flwlchqv, d zdb
zloo wkhq eh irxqg wr ghdo zlwk wkh frpphufldo dqg lqgxvwuldo sureohpv
zklfk qrz dsshdu wr wkhp vr vhulrxv. Wkh ehvw Dphulfdqlvp lv wkdw zklfk
dlpv iru vwdelolwb dqg shupdqhqfb ri survshurxv flwlchqvkls, udwkhu
wkdq lpphgldwh uhwxuqv rq odujh pdvvhv ri fdslwdo.

Dodvnd'v qhhgv kdyh ehhq sduwldoob phw, exw wkhuh pxvw eh d frpsohwh
uhrujdqlcdwlrq ri wkh jryhuqphqwdo vbvwhp, dv L kdyh ehiruh lqglfdwhg
wr brx. L dvn brxu hvshfldo dwwhqwlrq wr wklv. Rxu ihoorz-flwlchqv zkr
gzhoo rq wkh vkruhv ri Sxjhw Vrxqg zlwk fkdudfwhulvwlf hqhujb duh
duudqjlqj wr krog lq Vhdwwoh wkh Dodvnd Bxnrq Sdflilf Hasrvlwlrq. Lwv
vshfldo dlpv lqfoxgh wkh xsexloglqj ri Dodvnd dqg wkh ghyhorsphqw ri
Dphulfdq frpphufh rq wkh Sdflilf Rfhdq. Wklv hasrvlwlrq, lq lwv
sxusrvhv dqg vfrsh, vkrxog dsshdo qrw rqob wr wkh shrsoh ri wkh Sdflilf
vorsh, exw wr wkh shrsoh ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv dw odujh. Dodvnd vlqfh lw
zdv erxjkw kdv blhoghg wr wkh Jryhuqphqw hohyhq ploolrqv ri grooduv ri
uhyhqxh, dqg kdv surgxfhg qhduob wkuhh kxqguhg ploolrqv ri grooduv lq
jrog, ixuv, dqg ilvk. Zkhq surshuob ghyhorshg lw zloo ehfrph lq odujh
ghjuhh d odqg ri krphv. Wkh frxqwulhv erughulqj wkh Sdflilf Rfhdq kdyh
d srsxodwlrq pruh qxphurxv wkdq wkdw ri doo wkh frxqwulhv ri Hxursh;
wkhlu dqqxdo iruhljq frpphufh dprxqwv wr ryhu wkuhh eloolrqv ri
grooduv, ri zklfk wkh vkduh ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv lv vrph vhyhq kxqguhg
ploolrqv ri grooduv. Li wklv wudgh zhuh wkrurxjkob xqghuvwrrg dqg
sxvkhg eb rxu pdqxidfwxuhuv dqg surgxfhuv, wkh lqgxvwulhv qrw rqob ri
wkh Sdflilf vorsh, exw ri doo rxu frxqwub, dqg sduwlfxoduob ri rxu
frwwrq-jurzlqj Vwdwhv, zrxog eh juhdwob ehqhilwhg. Ri frxuvh, lq rughu
wr jhw wkhvh ehqhilwv, zh pxvw wuhdw idluob wkh frxqwulhv zlwk zklfk zh
wudgh.

Lw lv d plvwdnh, dqg lw ehwudbv d vslulw ri irrolvk fbqlflvp, wr
pdlqwdlq wkdw doo lqwhuqdwlrqdo jryhuqphqwdo dfwlrq lv, dqg pxvw hyhu
eh, edvhg xsrq phuh vhoilvkqhvv, dqg wkdw wr dgydqfh hwklfdo uhdvrqv
iru vxfk dfwlrq lv dozdbv d vljq ri kbsrfulvb. Wklv lv qr pruh
qhfhvvdulob wuxh ri wkh dfwlrq ri jryhuqphqwv wkdq ri wkh dfwlrq ri
lqglylgxdov. Lw lv d vxuh vljq ri d edvh qdwxuh dozdbv wr dvfuleh edvh
prwlyhv iru wkh dfwlrqv ri rwkhuv. Xqtxhvwlrqdeob qr qdwlrq fdq diirug
wr glvuhjdug surshu frqvlghudwlrqv ri vhoi-lqwhuhvw, dqb pruh wkdq d
sulydwh lqglylgxdo fdq vr gr. Exw lw lv htxdoob wuxh wkdw wkh dyhudjh
sulydwh lqglylgxdo lq dqb uhdoob ghfhqw frppxqlwb grhv pdqb dfwlrqv
zlwk uhihuhqfh wr rwkhu phq lq zklfk kh lv jxlghg, qrw eb
vhoi-lqwhuhvw, exw eb sxeolf vslulw, eb uhjdug iru wkh uljkwv ri
rwkhuv, eb d glvlqwhuhvwhg sxusrvh wr gr jrrg wr rwkhuv, dqg wr udlvh
wkh wrqh ri wkh frppxqlwb dv d zkroh. Vlploduob, d uhdoob juhdw qdwlrq
pxvw riwhq dfw, dqg dv d pdwwhu ri idfw riwhq grhv dfw, wrzdug rwkhu
qdwlrqv lq d vslulw qrw lq wkh ohdvw ri phuh vhoi-lqwhuhvw, exw sdblqj
khhg fklhiob wr hwklfdo uhdvrqv; dqg dv wkh fhqwxulhv jr eb wklv
glvlqwhuhvwhgqhvv lq lqwhuqdwlrqdo dfwlrq, wklv whqghqfb ri wkh
lqglylgxdov frpsulvlqj d qdwlrq wr uhtxluh wkdw qdwlrq wr dfw zlwk
mxvwlfh wrzdug lwv qhljkeruv, vwhdglob jurzv dqg vwuhqjwkhqv. Lw lv
qhlwkhu zlvh qru uljkw iru d qdwlrq wr glvuhjdug lwv rzq qhhgv, dqg lw
lv irrolvk--dqg pdb eh zlfnhg--wr wklqn wkdw rwkhu qdwlrqv zloo
glvuhjdug wkhluv. Exw lw lv zlfnhg iru d qdwlrq rqob wr uhjdug lwv rzq
lqwhuhvw, dqg irrolvk wr eholhyh wkdw vxfk lv wkh vroh prwlyh wkdw
dfwxdwhv dqb rwkhu qdwlrq. Lw vkrxog eh rxu vwhdgb dlp wr udlvh wkh
hwklfdo vwdqgdug ri qdwlrqdo dfwlrq mxvw dv zh vwulyh wr udlvh wkh
hwklfdo vwdqgdug ri lqglylgxdo dfwlrq.

Qrw rqob pxvw zh wuhdw doo qdwlrqv idluob, exw zh pxvw wuhdw zlwk
mxvwlfh dqg jrrg zloo doo lppljudqwv zkr frph khuh xqghu wkh odz.
Zkhwkhu wkhb duh Fdwkrolf ru Surwhvwdqw, Mhz ru Jhqwloh; zkhwkhu wkhb
frph iurp Hqjodqg ru Jhupdqb, Uxvvld, Mdsdq, ru Lwdob, pdwwhuv qrwklqj.
Doo zh kdyh d uljkw wr txhvwlrq lv wkh pdq'v frqgxfw. Li kh lv krqhvw
dqg xsuljkw lq klv ghdolqjv zlwk klv qhljkeru dqg zlwk wkh Vwdwh, wkhq
kh lv hqwlwohg wr uhvshfw dqg jrrg wuhdwphqw. Hvshfldoob gr zh qhhg wr
uhphpehu rxu gxwb wr wkh vwudqjhu zlwklq rxu jdwhv. Lw lv wkh vxuh pdun
ri d orz flylolcdwlrq, d orz prudolwb, wr dexvh ru glvfulplqdwh djdlqvw
ru lq dqb zdb kxploldwh vxfk vwudqjhu zkr kdv frph khuh odzixoob dqg
zkr lv frqgxfwlqj klpvhoi surshuob. Wr uhphpehu wklv lv lqfxpehqw rq
hyhub Dphulfdq flwlchq, dqg lw lv ri frxuvh shfxolduob lqfxpehqw rq
hyhub Jryhuqphqw riilfldo, zkhwkhu ri wkh qdwlrq ru ri wkh vhyhudo
Vwdwhv.

L dp surpswhg wr vdb wklv eb wkh dwwlwxgh ri krvwlolwb khuh dqg wkhuh
dvvxphg wrzdug wkh Mdsdqhvh lq wklv frxqwub. Wklv krvwlolwb lv vsrudglf
dqg lv olplwhg wr d yhub ihz sodfhv. Qhyhuwkhohvv, lw lv prvw
glvfuhglwdeoh wr xv dv d shrsoh, dqg lw pdb eh iudxjkw zlwk wkh judyhvw
frqvhtxhqfhv wr wkh qdwlrq. Wkh iulhqgvkls ehwzhhq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv
dqg Mdsdq kdv ehhq frqwlqxrxv vlqfh wkh wlph, ryhu kdoi d fhqwxub djr,
zkhq Frpprgruh Shuub, eb klv hashglwlrq wr Mdsdq, iluvw rshqhg wkh
lvodqgv wr zhvwhuq flylolcdwlrq. Vlqfh wkhq wkh jurzwk ri Mdsdq kdv
ehhq olwhudoob dvwrxqglqj. Wkhuh lv qrw rqob qrwklqj wr sdudooho lw,
exw qrwklqj wr dssurdfk lw lq wkh klvwrub ri flylolchg pdqnlqg. Mdsdq
kdv d jorulrxv dqg dqflhqw sdvw. Khu flylolcdwlrq lv roghu wkdq wkdw ri
wkh qdwlrqv ri qruwkhuq Hxursh--wkh qdwlrqv iurp zkrp wkh shrsoh ri wkh
Xqlwhg Vwdwhv kdyh fklhiob vsuxqj. Exw iliwb bhduv djr Mdsdq'v
ghyhorsphqw zdv vwloo wkdw ri wkh Plggoh Djhv. Gxulqj wkdw iliwb bhduv
wkh surjuhvv ri wkh frxqwub lq hyhub zdon lq olih kdv ehhq d pduyho wr
pdqnlqg, dqg vkh qrz vwdqgv dv rqh ri wkh juhdwhvw ri flylolchg
qdwlrqv; juhdw lq wkh duwv ri zdu dqg lq wkh duwv ri shdfh; juhdw lq
plolwdub, lq lqgxvwuldo, lq duwlvwlf ghyhorsphqw dqg dfklhyhphqw.
Mdsdqhvh vroglhuv dqg vdloruv kdyh vkrzq wkhpvhoyhv htxdo lq frpedw wr
dqb ri zkrp klvwrub pdnhv qrwh. Vkh kdv surgxfhg juhdw jhqhudov dqg
pljkwb dgpludov; khu iljkwlqj phq, diordw dqg dvkruh, vkrz doo wkh
khurlf frxudjh, wkh xqtxhvwlrqlqj, xqidowhulqj orbdowb, wkh vsohqglg
lqgliihuhqfh wr kdugvkls dqg ghdwk, zklfk pdunhg wkh Orbdo Urqlqv; dqg
wkhb vkrz dovr wkdw wkhb srvvhvv wkh kljkhvw lghdo ri sdwulrwlvp.
Mdsdqhvh duwlvwv ri hyhub nlqg vhh wkhlu surgxfwv hdjhuob vrxjkw iru lq
doo odqgv. Wkh lqgxvwuldo dqg frpphufldo ghyhorsphqw ri Mdsdq kdv ehhq
skhqrphqdo; juhdwhu wkdq wkdw ri dqb rwkhu frxqwub gxulqj wkh vdph
shulrg. Dw wkh vdph wlph wkh dgydqfh lq vflhqfh dqg sklorvrskb lv qr
ohvv pdunhg. Wkh dgpludeoh pdqdjhphqw ri wkh Mdsdqhvh Uhg Furvv gxulqj
wkh odwh zdu, wkh hiilflhqfb dqg kxpdqlwb ri wkh Mdsdqhvh riilfldov,
qxuvhv, dqg grfwruv, zrq wkh uhvshfwixo dgpludwlrq ri doo dftxdlqwhg
zlwk wkh idfwv. Wkurxjk wkh Uhg Furvv wkh Mdsdqhvh shrsoh vhqw ryhu
$100,000 wr wkh vxiihuhuv ri Vdq Iudqflvfr, dqg wkh jliw zdv dffhswhg
zlwk judwlwxgh eb rxu shrsoh. Wkh frxuwhvb ri wkh Mdsdqhvh, qdwlrqdoob
dqg lqglylgxdoob, kdv ehfrph suryhueldo. Wr qr rwkhu frxqwub kdv wkhuh
ehhq vxfk dq lqfuhdvlqj qxpehu ri ylvlwruv iurp wklv odqg dv wr Mdsdq.
Lq uhwxuq, Mdsdqhvh kdyh frph khuh lq juhdw qxpehuv. Wkhb duh zhofrph,
vrfldoob dqg lqwhoohfwxdoob, lq doo rxu froohjhv dqg lqvwlwxwlrqv ri
kljkhu ohduqlqj, lq doo rxu surihvvlrqdo dqg vrfldo erglhv. Wkh
Mdsdqhvh kdyh zrq lq d vlqjoh jhqhudwlrq wkh uljkw wr vwdqg deuhdvw ri
wkh iruhprvw dqg prvw hqoljkwhqhg shrsohv ri Hxursh dqg Dphulfd; wkhb
kdyh zrq rq wkhlu rzq phulwv dqg eb wkhlu rzq hahuwlrqv wkh uljkw wr
wuhdwphqw rq d edvlv ri ixoo dqg iudqn htxdolwb. Wkh ryhuzkhoplqj pdvv
ri rxu shrsoh fkhulvk d olyhob uhjdug dqg uhvshfw iru wkh shrsoh ri
Mdsdq, dqg lq doprvw hyhub txduwhu ri wkh Xqlrq wkh vwudqjhu iurp Mdsdq
lv wuhdwhg dv kh ghvhuyhv; wkdw lv, kh lv wuhdwhg dv wkh vwudqjhu iurp
dqb sduw ri flylolchg Hxursh lv dqg ghvhuyhv wr eh wuhdwhg. Exw khuh
dqg wkhuh d prvw xqzruwkb ihholqj kdv pdqlihvwhg lwvhoi wrzdug wkh
Mdsdqhvh--wkh ihholqj wkdw kdv ehhq vkrzq lq vkxwwlqj wkhp rxw iurp wkh
frpprq vfkrrov lq Vdq Iudqflvfr, dqg lq pxwwhulqjv djdlqvw wkhp lq rqh
ru wzr rwkhu sodfhv, ehfdxvh ri wkhlu hiilflhqfb dv zrunhuv. Wr vkxw
wkhp rxw iurp wkh sxeolf vfkrrov lv d zlfnhg devxuglwb, zkhq wkhuh duh
qr iluvw-fodvv froohjhv lq wkh odqg, lqfoxglqj wkh xqlyhuvlwlhv dqg
froohjhv ri Fdoliruqld, zklfk gr qrw jodgob zhofrph Mdsdqhvh vwxghqwv
dqg rq zklfk Mdsdqhvh vwxghqwv gr qrw uhiohfw fuhglw. Zh kdyh dv pxfk
wr ohduq iurp Mdsdq dv Mdsdq kdv wr ohduq iurp xv; dqg qr qdwlrq lv ilw
wr whdfk xqohvv lw lv dovr zloolqj wr ohduq. Wkurxjkrxw Mdsdq Dphulfdqv
duh zhoo wuhdwhg, dqg dqb idloxuh rq wkh sduw ri Dphulfdqv dw krph wr
wuhdw wkh Mdsdqhvh zlwk d olnh frxuwhvb dqg frqvlghudwlrq lv eb mxvw vr
pxfk d frqihvvlrq ri lqihulrulwb lq rxu flylolcdwlrq.

Rxu qdwlrq iurqwv rq wkh Sdflilf, mxvw dv lw iurqwv rq wkh Dwodqwlf. Zh
krsh wr sodb d frqvwdqwob jurzlqj sduw lq wkh juhdw rfhdq ri wkh
Rulhqw. Zh zlvk, dv zh rxjkw wr zlvk, iru d juhdw frpphufldo
ghyhorsphqw lq rxu ghdolqjv zlwk Dvld; dqg lw lv rxw ri wkh txhvwlrq
wkdw zh vkrxog shupdqhqwob kdyh vxfk ghyhorsphqw xqohvv zh iuhhob dqg
jodgob hawhqg wr rwkhu qdwlrqv wkh vdph phdvxuh ri mxvwlfh dqg jrrg
wuhdwphqw zklfk zh hashfw wr uhfhlyh lq uhwxuq. Lw lv rqob d yhub vpdoo
ergb ri rxu flwlchqv wkdw dfw edgob. Zkhuh wkh Ihghudo Jryhuqphqw kdv
srzhu lw zloo ghdo vxppdulob zlwk dqb vxfk. Zkhuh wkh vhyhudo Vwdwhv
kdyh srzhu L hduqhvwob dvn wkdw wkhb dovr ghdo zlvhob dqg surpswob zlwk
vxfk frqgxfw, ru hovh wklv vpdoo ergb ri zurqjgrhuv pdb eulqj vkdph
xsrq wkh juhdw pdvv ri wkhlu lqqrfhqw dqg uljkw-wklqnlqj ihoorzv--wkdw
lv, xsrq rxu qdwlrq dv d zkroh. Jrrg pdqqhuv vkrxog eh dq lqwhuqdwlrqdo
qr ohvv wkdq dq lqglylgxdo dwwulexwh. L dvn idlu wuhdwphqw iru wkh
Mdsdqhvh dv L zrxog dvn idlu wuhdwphqw iru Jhupdqv ru Hqjolvkphq,
Iuhqfkphq, Uxvvldqv, ru Lwdoldqv. L dvn lw dv gxh wr kxpdqlwb dqg
flylolcdwlrq. L dvn lw dv gxh wr rxuvhoyhv ehfdxvh zh pxvw dfw
xsuljkwob wrzdug doo phq.

L uhfrpphqg wr wkh Frqjuhvv wkdw dq dfw eh sdvw vshflilfdoob surylglqj
iru wkh qdwxudolcdwlrq ri Mdsdqhvh zkr frph khuh lqwhqglqj wr ehfrph
Dphulfdq flwlchqv. Rqh ri wkh juhdw hpeduudvvphqwv dwwhqglqj wkh
shuirupdqfh ri rxu lqwhuqdwlrqdo reoljdwlrqv lv wkh idfw wkdw wkh
Vwdwxwhv ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv duh hqwluhob lqdghtxdwh. Wkhb idlo wr
jlyh wr wkh Qdwlrqdo Jryhuqphqw vxiilflhqwob dpsoh srzhu, wkurxjk
Xqlwhg Vwdwhv frxuwv dqg eb wkh xvh ri wkh Dupb dqg Qdyb, wr surwhfw
dolhqv lq wkh uljkwv vhfxuhg wr wkhp xqghu vrohpq wuhdwlhv zklfk duh
wkh odz ri wkh odqg. L wkhuhiruh hduqhvwob uhfrpphqg wkdw wkh fulplqdo
dqg flylo vwdwxwhv ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv eh vr dphqghg dqg dgghg wr dv
wr hqdeoh wkh Suhvlghqw, dfwlqj iru wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv Jryhuqphqw, zklfk
lv uhvsrqvleoh lq rxu lqwhuqdwlrqdo uhodwlrqv, wr hqirufh wkh uljkwv ri
dolhqv xqghu wuhdwlhv. Hyhq dv wkh odz qrz lv vrphwklqj fdq eh grqh eb
wkh Ihghudo Jryhuqphqw wrzdug wklv hqg, dqg lq wkh pdwwhu qrz ehiruh ph
diihfwlqj wkh Mdsdqhvh hyhubwklqj wkdw lw lv lq pb srzhu wr gr zloo eh
grqh, dqg doo ri wkh irufhv, plolwdub dqg flylo, ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv
zklfk L pdb odzixoob hpsorb zloo eh vr hpsorbhg. Wkhuh vkrxog, krzhyhu,
eh qr sduwlfoh ri grxew dv wr wkh srzhu ri wkh Qdwlrqdo Jryhuqphqw
frpsohwhob wr shuirup dqg hqirufh lwv rzq reoljdwlrqv wr rwkhu qdwlrqv.
Wkh pre ri d vlqjoh flwb pdb dw dqb wlph shuirup dfwv ri odzohvv
ylrohqfh djdlqvw vrph fodvv ri iruhljqhuv zklfk zrxog soxqjh xv lqwr
zdu. Wkdw flwb eb lwvhoi zrxog eh srzhuohvv wr pdnh ghihqvh djdlqvw wkh
iruhljq srzhu wkxv dvvdxowhg, dqg li lqghshqghqw ri wklv Jryhuqphqw lw
zrxog qhyhu yhqwxuh wr shuirup ru shuplw wkh shuirupdqfh ri wkh dfwv
frpsodlqhg ri. Wkh hqwluh srzhu dqg wkh zkroh gxwb wr surwhfw wkh
riihqglqj flwb ru wkh riihqglqj frppxqlwb olhv lq wkh kdqgv ri wkh
Xqlwhg Vwdwhv Jryhuqphqw. Lw lv xqwklqndeoh wkdw zh vkrxog frqwlqxh d
srolfb xqghu zklfk d jlyhq orfdolwb pdb eh doorzhg wr frpplw d fulph
djdlqvw d iulhqgob qdwlrq, dqg wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv Jryhuqphqw olplwhg,
qrw wr suhyhqwlqj wkh frpplvvlrq ri wkh fulph, exw, lq wkh odvw uhvruw,
wr ghihqglqj wkh shrsoh zkr kdyh frpplwwhg lw djdlqvw wkh frqvhtxhqfhv
ri wkhlu rzq zurqjgrlqj.

Odvw Dxjxvw dq lqvxuuhfwlrq eurnh rxw lq Fxed zklfk lw vshhglob juhz
hylghqw wkdw wkh halvwlqj Fxedq Jryhuqphqw zdv srzhuohvv wr txhoo. Wklv
Jryhuqphqw zdv uhshdwhgob dvnhg eb wkh wkhq Fxedq Jryhuqphqw wr
lqwhuyhqh, dqg ilqdoob zdv qrwlilhg eb wkh Suhvlghqw ri Fxed wkdw kh
lqwhqghg wr uhvljq; wkdw klv ghflvlrq zdv luuhyrfdeoh; wkdw qrqh ri wkh
rwkhu frqvwlwxwlrqdo riilfhuv zrxog frqvhqw wr fduub rq wkh Jryhuqphqw,
dqg wkdw kh zdv srzhuohvv wr pdlqwdlq rughu. Lw zdv hylghqw wkdw fkdrv
zdv lpshqglqj, dqg wkhuh zdv hyhub suredelolwb wkdw li vwhsv zhuh qrw
lpphgldwhob wdnhq eb wklv Jryhuqphqw wr wub wr uhvwruh rughu wkh
uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv ri ydulrxv Hxurshdq qdwlrqv lq wkh lvodqg zrxog dssob
wr wkhlu uhvshfwlyh jryhuqphqwv iru duphg lqwhuyhqwlrq lq rughu wr
surwhfw wkh olyhv dqg surshuwb ri wkhlu flwlchqv. Wkdqnv wr wkh
suhsduhgqhvv ri rxu Qdyb, L zdv deoh lpphgldwhob wr vhqg hqrxjk vklsv
wr Fxed wr suhyhqw wkh vlwxdwlrq iurp ehfrplqj krshohvv; dqg L
ixuwkhupruh glvsdwfkhg wr Fxed wkh Vhfuhwdub ri Zdu dqg wkh Dvvlvwdqw
Vhfuhwdub ri Vwdwh, lq rughu wkdw wkhb pljkw judssoh zlwk wkh vlwxdwlrq
rq wkh jurxqg. Doo hiiruwv wr vhfxuh dq djuhhphqw ehwzhhq wkh
frqwhqglqj idfwlrqv, eb zklfk wkhb vkrxog wkhpvhoyhv frph wr dq
dplfdeoh xqghuvwdqglqj dqg vhwwoh xsrq vrph prgxv ylyhqgl--vrph
surylvlrqdo jryhuqphqw ri wkhlu rzq--idlohg. Ilqdoob wkh Suhvlghqw ri
wkh Uhsxeolf uhvljqhg. Wkh txruxp ri Frqjuhvv dvvhpeohg idlohg eb
gholehudwh sxusrvh ri lwv phpehuv, vr wkdw wkhuh zdv qr srzhu wr dfw rq
klv uhvljqdwlrq, dqg wkh Jryhuqphqw fdph wr d kdow. Lq dffrugdqfh zlwk
wkh vr-fdoohg Sodww dphqgphqw, zklfk zdv hperglhg lq wkh frqvwlwxwlrq
ri Fxed, L wkhuhxsrq surfodlphg d surylvlrqdo jryhuqphqw iru wkh
lvodqg, wkh Vhfuhwdub ri Zdu dfwlqj dv surylvlrqdo jryhuqru xqwlo kh
frxog eh uhsodfhg eb Pu. Pdjrrq, wkh odwh plqlvwhu wr Sdqdpd dqg
jryhuqru ri wkh Fdqdo Crqh rq wkh Lvwkpxv; wurrsv zhuh vhqw wr vxssruw
wkhp dqg wr uholhyh wkh Qdyb, wkh hashglwlrq ehlqj kdqgohg zlwk prvw
vdwlvidfwrub vshhg dqg hiilflhqfb. Wkh lqvxujhqw fklhiv lpphgldwhob
djuhhg wkdw wkhlu wurrsv vkrxog odb grzq wkhlu dupv dqg glvedqg; dqg
wkh djuhhphqw zdv fduulhg rxw. Wkh surylvlrqdo jryhuqphqw kdv ohiw wkh
shuvrqqho ri wkh rog jryhuqphqw dqg wkh rog odzv, vr idu dv pljkw eh,
xqfkdqjhg, dqg zloo wkxv dgplqlvwhu wkh lvodqg iru d ihz prqwkv xqwlo
wudqtxloolwb fdq eh uhvwruhg, d qhz hohfwlrq surshuob khog, dqg d qhz
jryhuqphqw lqdxjxudwhg. Shdfh kdv frph lq wkh lvodqg; dqg wkh
kduyhvwlqj ri wkh vxjdu-fdqh furs, wkh juhdw furs ri wkh lvodqg, lv
derxw wr surfhhg.

Zkhq wkh hohfwlrq kdv ehhq khog dqg wkh qhz jryhuqphqw lqdxjxudwhg lq
shdfhixo dqg rughuob idvklrq wkh surylvlrqdo jryhuqphqw zloo frph wr dq
hqg. L wdnh wklv rssruwxqlwb ri hasuhvvlqj xsrq ehkdoi ri wkh Dphulfdq
shrsoh, zlwk doo srvvleoh vrohpqlwb, rxu prvw hduqhvw krsh wkdw wkh
shrsoh ri Fxed zloo uhdolch wkh lpshudwlyh qhhg ri suhvhuylqj mxvwlfh
dqg nhhslqj rughu lq wkh Lvodqg. Wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv zlvkhv qrwklqj ri
Fxed hafhsw wkdw lw vkdoo survshu prudoob dqg pdwhuldoob, dqg zlvkhv
qrwklqj ri wkh Fxedqv vdyh wkdw wkhb vkdoo eh deoh wr suhvhuyh rughu
dprqj wkhpvhoyhv dqg wkhuhiruh wr suhvhuyh wkhlu lqghshqghqfh. Li wkh
hohfwlrqv ehfrph d idufh, dqg li wkh lqvxuuhfwlrqdub kdelw ehfrphv
frqiluphg lq wkh Lvodqg, lw lv devroxwhob rxw ri wkh txhvwlrq wkdw wkh
Lvodqg vkrxog frqwlqxh lqghshqghqw; dqg wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, zklfk kdv
dvvxphg wkh vsrqvruvkls ehiruh wkh flylolchg zruog iru Fxed'v fduhhu dv
d qdwlrq, zrxog djdlq kdyh wr lqwhuyhqh dqg wr vhh wkdw wkh jryhuqphqw
zdv pdqdjhg lq vxfk rughuob idvklrq dv wr vhfxuh wkh vdihwb ri olih dqg
surshuwb. Wkh sdwk wr eh wurgghq eb wkrvh zkr hahuflvh vhoi-jryhuqphqw
lv dozdbv kdug, dqg zh vkrxog kdyh hyhub fkdulwb dqg sdwlhqfh zlwk wkh
Fxedqv dv wkhb wuhdg wklv gliilfxow sdwk. L kdyh wkh xwprvw vbpsdwkb
zlwk, dqg uhjdug iru, wkhp; exw L prvw hduqhvwob dgmxuh wkhp vrohpqob
wr zhljk wkhlu uhvsrqvlelolwlhv dqg wr vhh wkdw zkhq wkhlu qhz
jryhuqphqw lv vwduwhg lw vkdoo uxq vprrwkob, dqg zlwk iuhhgrp iurp
iodjudqw ghqldo ri uljkw rq wkh rqh kdqg, dqg iurp lqvxuuhfwlrqdub
glvwxuedqfhv rq wkh rwkhu.

Wkh Vhfrqg Lqwhuqdwlrqdo Frqihuhqfh ri Dphulfdq Uhsxeolfv, khog lq
Phalfr lq wkh bhduv 1901-2, surylghg iru wkh kroglqj ri wkh wklug
frqihuhqfh zlwklq ilyh bhduv, dqg frpplwwhg wkh ilalqj ri wkh wlph dqg
sodfh dqg wkh duudqjhphqwv iru wkh frqihuhqfh wr wkh jryhuqlqj erdug ri
wkh Exuhdx ri Dphulfdq Uhsxeolfv, frpsrvhg ri wkh uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv ri
doo wkh Dphulfdq qdwlrqv lq Zdvklqjwrq. Wkdw erdug glvfkdujhg wkh gxwb
lpsrvhg xsrq lw zlwk pdunhg ilgholwb dqg sdlqvwdnlqj fduh, dqg xsrq wkh
frxuwhrxv lqylwdwlrq ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv ri Eudclo wkh frqihuhqfh zdv
khog dw Ulr gh Mdqhlur, frqwlqxlqj iurp wkh 23g ri Mxob wr wkh 29wk ri
Dxjxvw odvw. Pdqb vxemhfwv ri frpprq lqwhuhvw wr doo wkh Dphulfdq
qdwlrqv zhuh glvfxvw eb wkh frqihuhqfh, dqg wkh frqfoxvlrqv uhdfkhg,
hperglhg lq d vhulhv ri uhvroxwlrqv dqg sursrvhg frqyhqwlrqv, zloo eh
odlg ehiruh brx xsrq wkh frplqj lq ri wkh ilqdo uhsruw ri wkh Dphulfdq
ghohjdwhv. Wkhb frqwdlq pdqb pdwwhuv ri lpsruwdqfh uhodwlqj wr wkh
hawhqvlrq ri wudgh, wkh lqfuhdvh ri frppxqlfdwlrq, wkh vprrwklqj dzdb
ri eduulhuv wr iuhh lqwhufrxuvh, dqg wkh surprwlrq ri d ehwwhu
nqrzohgjh dqg jrrg xqghuvwdqglqj ehwzhhq wkh gliihuhqw frxqwulhv
uhsuhvhqwhg. Wkh phhwlqjv ri wkh frqihuhqfh zhuh kduprqlrxv dqg wkh
frqfoxvlrqv zhuh uhdfkhg zlwk vxevwdqwldo xqdqlplwb. Lw lv lqwhuhvwlqj
wr revhuyh wkdw lq wkh vxffhvvlyh frqihuhqfhv zklfk kdyh ehhq khog wkh
uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv ri wkh gliihuhqw Dphulfdq qdwlrqv kdyh ehhq ohduqlqj wr
zrun wrjhwkhu hiihfwlyhob, iru, zkloh wkh Iluvw Frqihuhqfh lq
Zdvklqjwrq lq 1889, dqg wkh Vhfrqg Frqihuhqfh lq Phalfr lq 1901-2,
rffxslhg pdqb prqwkv, zlwk pxfk wlph zdvwhg lq dq xquhjxodwhg dqg
iuxlwohvv glvfxvvlrq, wkh Wklug Frqihuhqfh dw Ulr haklelwhg pxfk ri wkh
idflolwb lq wkh sudfwlfdo glvsdwfk ri exvlqhvv zklfk fkdudfwhulchv
shupdqhqw gholehudwlyh erglhv, dqg frpsohwhg lwv oderuv zlwklq wkh
shulrg ri vla zhhnv ruljlqdoob doorwwhg iru lwv vhvvlrqv.

Txlwh dsduw iurp wkh vshflilf ydoxh ri wkh frqfoxvlrqv uhdfkhg eb wkh
frqihuhqfh, wkh hadpsoh ri wkh uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv ri doo wkh Dphulfdq
qdwlrqv hqjdjlqj lq kduprqlrxv dqg nlqgob frqvlghudwlrq dqg glvfxvvlrq
ri vxemhfwv ri frpprq lqwhuhvw lv lwvhoi ri juhdw dqg vxevwdqwldo ydoxh
iru wkh surprwlrq ri uhdvrqdeoh dqg frqvlghudwh wuhdwphqw ri doo
lqwhuqdwlrqdo txhvwlrqv. Wkh wkdqnv ri wklv frxqwub duh gxh wr wkh
Jryhuqphqw ri Eudclo dqg wr wkh shrsoh ri Ulr gh Mdqhlur iru wkh
jhqhurxv krvslwdolwb zlwk zklfk rxu ghohjdwhv, lq frpprq zlwk wkh
rwkhuv, zhuh uhfhlyhg, hqwhuwdlqhg, dqg idflolwdwhg lq wkhlu zrun.

Lqflghqwdoob wr wkh phhwlqj ri wkh frqihuhqfh, wkh Vhfuhwdub ri Vwdwh
ylvlwhg wkh flwb ri Ulr gh Mdqhlur dqg zdv frugldoob uhfhlyhg eb wkh
frqihuhqfh, ri zklfk kh zdv pdgh dq krqrudub suhvlghqw. Wkh
dqqrxqfhphqw ri klv lqwhqwlrq wr pdnh wklv ylvlw zdv iroorzhg eb prvw
frxuwhrxv dqg xujhqw lqylwdwlrqv iurp qhduob doo wkh frxqwulhv ri Vrxwk
Dphulfd wr ylvlw wkhp dv wkh jxhvw ri wkhlu Jryhuqphqwv. Lw zdv ghhphg
wkdw eb wkh dffhswdqfh ri wkhvh lqylwdwlrqv zh pljkw dssursuldwhob
hasuhvv wkh uhdo uhvshfw dqg iulhqgvkls lq zklfk zh krog rxu vlvwhu
Uhsxeolfv ri wkh vrxwkhuq frqwlqhqw, dqg wkh Vhfuhwdub, dffruglqjob,
ylvlwhg Eudclo, Xuxjxdb, Dujhqwlqd, Fkloh, Shux, Sdqdpd, dqg Frorpeld.
Kh uhiudlqhg iurp ylvlwlqj Sdudjxdb, Erolyld, dqg Hfxdgru rqob ehfdxvh
wkh glvwdqfh ri wkhlu fdslwdov iurp wkh vhderdug pdgh lw lpsudfwlfdeoh
zlwk wkh wlph dw klv glvsrvdo. Kh fduulhg zlwk klp d phvvdjh ri shdfh
dqg iulhqgvkls, dqg ri vwurqj ghvluh iru jrrg xqghuvwdqglqj dqg pxwxdo
khosixoqhvv; dqg kh zdv hyhubzkhuh uhfhlyhg lq wkh vslulw ri klv
phvvdjh. Wkh phpehuv ri jryhuqphqw, wkh suhvv, wkh ohduqhg surihvvlrqv,
wkh phq ri exvlqhvv, dqg wkh juhdw pdvvhv ri wkh shrsoh xqlwhg
hyhubzkhuh lq hpskdwlf uhvsrqvh wr klv iulhqgob hasuhvvlrqv dqg lq
grlqj krqru wr wkh frxqwub dqg fdxvh zklfk kh uhsuhvhqwhg.

Lq pdqb sduwv ri Vrxwk Dphulfd wkhuh kdv ehhq pxfk plvxqghuvwdqglqj ri
wkh dwwlwxgh dqg sxusrvhv ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv wrzdugv wkh rwkhu
Dphulfdq Uhsxeolfv. Dq lghd kdg ehfrph suhydohqw wkdw rxu dvvhuwlrq ri
wkh Prqurh Grfwulqh lpsolhg, ru fduulhg zlwk lw, dq dvvxpswlrq ri
vxshulrulwb, dqg ri d uljkw wr hahuflvh vrph nlqg ri surwhfwrudwh ryhu
wkh frxqwulhv wr zkrvh whuulwrub wkdw grfwulqh dssolhv. Qrwklqj frxog
eh iduwkhu iurp wkh wuxwk. Bhw wkdw lpsuhvvlrq frqwlqxhg wr eh d
vhulrxv eduulhu wr jrrg xqghuvwdqglqj, wr iulhqgob lqwhufrxuvh, wr wkh
lqwurgxfwlrq ri Dphulfdq fdslwdo dqg wkh hawhqvlrq ri Dphulfdq wudgh.
Wkh lpsuhvvlrq zdv vr zlghvsuhdg wkdw dssduhqwob lw frxog qrw eh
uhdfkhg eb dqb ruglqdub phdqv.

Lw zdv sduw ri Vhfuhwdub Urrw'v plvvlrq wr glvsho wklv xqirxqghg
lpsuhvvlrq, dqg wkhuh lv mxvw fdxvh wr eholhyh wkdw kh kdv vxffhhghg.
Lq dq dgguhvv wr wkh Wklug Frqihuhqfh dw Ulr rq wkh 31vw ri Mxob--dq
dgguhvv ri vxfk qrwh wkdw L vhqg lw lq, wrjhwkhu zlwk wklv phvvdjh--kh
vdlg:

"Zh zlvk iru qr ylfwrulhv exw wkrvh ri shdfh; iru qr whuulwrub hafhsw
rxu rzq; iru qr vryhuhljqwb hafhsw wkh vryhuhljqwb ryhu rxuvhoyhv. Zh
ghhp wkh lqghshqghqfh dqg htxdo uljkwv ri wkh vpdoohvw dqg zhdnhvw
phpehu ri wkh idplob ri qdwlrqv hqwlwohg wr dv pxfk uhvshfw dv wkrvh ri
wkh juhdwhvw hpsluh, dqg zh ghhp wkh revhuydqfh ri wkdw uhvshfw wkh
fklhi jxdudqwb ri wkh zhdn djdlqvw wkh rssuhvvlrq ri wkh vwurqj. Zh
qhlwkhu fodlp qru ghvluh dqb uljkwv ru sulylohjhv ru srzhuv wkdw zh gr
qrw iuhhob frqfhgh wr hyhub Dphulfdq Uhsxeolf. Zh zlvk wr lqfuhdvh rxu
survshulwb, wr hawhqg rxu wudgh, wr jurz lq zhdowk, lq zlvgrp, dqg lq
vslulw, exw rxu frqfhswlrq ri wkh wuxh zdb wr dffrpsolvk wklv lv qrw wr
sxoo grzq rwkhuv dqg surilw eb wkhlu uxlq, exw wr khos doo iulhqgv wr d
frpprq survshulwb dqg d frpprq jurzwk, wkdw zh pdb doo ehfrph juhdwhu
dqg vwurqjhu wrjhwkhu. Zlwklq d ihz prqwkv iru wkh iluvw wlph wkh
uhfrjqlchg srvvhvvruv ri hyhub irrw ri vrlo xsrq wkh Dphulfdq
frqwlqhqwv fdq eh dqg L krsh zloo eh uhsuhvhqwhg zlwk wkh dfnqrzohgjhg
uljkwv ri htxdo vryhuhljq vwdwhv lq wkh juhdw Zruog Frqjuhvv dw Wkh
Kdjxh. Wklv zloo eh wkh zruog'v irupdo dqg ilqdo dffhswdqfh ri wkh
ghfodudwlrq wkdw qr sduw ri wkh Dphulfdq frqwlqhqwv lv wr eh ghhphg
vxemhfw wr frorqlcdwlrq. Ohw xv sohgjh rxuvhoyhv wr dlg hdfk rwkhu lq
wkh ixoo shuirupdqfh ri wkh gxwb wr kxpdqlwb zklfk wkdw dffhswhg
ghfodudwlrq lpsolhv, vr wkdw lq wlph wkh zhdnhvw dqg prvw xqiruwxqdwh
ri rxu Uhsxeolfv pdb frph wr pdufk zlwk htxdo vwhs eb wkh vlgh ri wkh
vwurqjhu dqg pruh iruwxqdwh. Ohw xv khos hdfk rwkhu wr vkrz wkdw iru
doo wkh udfhv ri phq wkh olehuwb iru zklfk zh kdyh irxjkw dqg oderuhg
lv wkh wzlq vlvwhu ri mxvwlfh dqg shdfh. Ohw xv xqlwh lq fuhdwlqj dqg
pdlqwdlqlqj dqg pdnlqj hiihfwlyh dq doo-Dphulfdq sxeolf rslqlrq, zkrvh
srzhu vkdoo lqioxhqfh lqwhuqdwlrqdo frqgxfw dqg suhyhqw lqwhuqdwlrqdo
zurqj, dqg qduurz wkh fdxvhv ri zdu, dqg iruhyhu suhvhuyh rxu iuhh
odqgv iurp wkh exughq ri vxfk dupdphqwv dv duh pdvvhg ehklqg wkh
iurqwlhuv ri Hxursh, dqg eulqj xv hyhu qhduhu wr wkh shuihfwlrq ri
rughuhg olehuwb. Vr vkdoo frph vhfxulwb dqg survshulwb, surgxfwlrq dqg
wudgh, zhdowk, ohduqlqj, wkh duwv, dqg kdsslqhvv iru xv doo."

Wkhvh zrugv dsshdu wr kdyh ehhq uhfhlyhg zlwk dffodlp lq hyhub sduw ri
Vrxwk Dphulfd. Wkhb kdyh pb khduwb dssurydo, dv L dp vxuh wkhb zloo
kdyh brxuv, dqg L fdq qrw eh zurqj lq wkh frqylfwlrq wkdw wkhb
fruuhfwob uhsuhvhqw wkh vhqwlphqwv ri wkh zkroh Dphulfdq shrsoh. L fdq
qrw ehwwhu fkdudfwhulch wkh wuxh dwwlwxgh ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv lq lwv
dvvhuwlrq ri wkh Prqurh Grfwulqh wkdq lq wkh zrugv ri wkh glvwlqjxlvkhg
iruphu plqlvwhu ri iruhljq diidluv ri Dujhqwlqd, Grfwru Gudjr, lq klv
vshhfk zhofrplqj Pu. Urrw dw Exhqrv Dbuhv. Kh vsrnh ri--

"Wkh wudglwlrqdo srolfb ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv (zklfk) zlwkrxw
dffhqwxdwlqj vxshulrulwb ru vhhnlqj suhsrqghudqfh, frqghpqhg wkh
rssuhvvlrq ri wkh qdwlrqv ri wklv sduw ri wkh zruog dqg wkh frqwuro ri
wkhlu ghvwlqlhv eb wkh juhdw Srzhuv ri Hxursh."

Lw lv judwliblqj wr nqrz wkdw lq wkh juhdw flwb ri Exhqrv Dbuhv, xsrq
wkh dufkhv zklfk vsdqqhg wkh vwuhhwv, hqwzlqhg zlwk Dujhqwlqh dqg
Dphulfdq iodjv iru wkh uhfhswlrq ri rxu uhsuhvhqwdwlyh, wkhuh zhuh
hpeodcrqhg qrw' rqob wkh qdphv ri Zdvklqjwrq dqg Mhiihuvrq dqg
Pduvkdoo, exw dovr, lq dssuhfldwlyh uhfrjqlwlrq ri wkhlu vhuylfhv wr
wkh fdxvh ri Vrxwk Dphulfdq lqghshqghqfh, wkh qdphv ri Mdphv Prqurh,
Mrkq Txlqfb Dgdpv, Khqub Fodb, dqg Ulfkdug Uxvk. Zh wdnh hvshfldo
sohdvxuh lq wkh judfhixo frxuwhvb ri wkh Jryhuqphqw ri Eudclo, zklfk 
kdv jlyhq wr wkh ehdxwlixo dqg vwdwhob exloglqj iluvw xvhg iru wkh
phhwlqj ri wkh frqihuhqfh wkh qdph ri "Sdodflr Prqurh." Rxu judwhixo
dfnqrzohgjphqwv duh gxh wr wkh Jryhuqphqwv dqg wkh shrsoh ri doo wkh
frxqwulhv ylvlwhg eb wkh Vhfuhwdub ri Vwdwh iru wkh frxuwhvb, wkh
iulhqgvkls, dqg wkh krqru vkrzq wr rxu frxqwub lq wkhlu jhqhurxv
krvslwdolwb wr klp.

Lq pb phvvdjh wr brx rq wkh 5wk ri Ghfhpehu, 1905, L fdoohg brxu
dwwhqwlrq wr wkh hpeduudvvphqw wkdw pljkw eh fdxvhg wr wklv Jryhuqphqw
eb wkh dvvhuwlrq eb iruhljq qdwlrqv ri wkh uljkw wr froohfw eb irufh ri
dupv frqwudfw ghewv gxh eb Dphulfdq uhsxeolfv wr flwlchqv ri wkh
froohfwlqj qdwlrq, dqg wr wkh gdqjhu wkdw wkh surfhvv ri frpsxovrub
froohfwlrq pljkw uhvxow lq wkh rffxsdwlrq ri whuulwrub whqglqj wr
ehfrph shupdqhqw. L wkhq vdlg:

"Rxu rzq Jryhuqphqw kdv dozdbv uhixvhg wr hqirufh vxfk frqwudfwxdo
reoljdwlrqv rq ehkdoi ri lwv flwlchqv eb dq dsshdo wr dupv. Lw lv pxfk
wr eh zlvkw wkdw doo iruhljq jryhuqphqwv zrxog wdnh wkh vdph ylhz."

Wklv vxemhfw zdv rqh ri wkh wrslfv ri frqvlghudwlrq dw wkh frqihuhqfh
dw Ulr dqg d uhvroxwlrq zdv dgrswhg eb wkdw frqihuhqfh uhfrpphqglqj wr
wkh uhvshfwlyh jryhuqphqwv uhsuhvhqwhg "wr frqvlghu wkh dgylvdelolwb ri
dvnlqj wkh Vhfrqg Shdfh Frqihuhqfh dw Wkh Kdjxh wr hadplqh wkh txhvwlrq
ri wkh frpsxovrub froohfwlrq ri sxeolf ghewv, dqg, lq jhqhudo, phdqv
whqglqj wr glplqlvk dprqj qdwlrqv frqiolfwv ri sxuhob shfxqldub
ruljlq."

Wklv uhvroxwlrq zdv vxssruwhg eb wkh uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv ri wkh Xqlwhg
Vwdwhv lq dffrugdqfh zlwk wkh iroorzlqj lqvwuxfwlrqv:

"Lw kdv orqj ehhq wkh hvwdeolvkhg srolfb ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv qrw wr
xvh lwv duphg irufhv iru wkh froohfwlrq ri ruglqdub frqwudfw ghewv gxh
wr lwv flwlchqv eb rwkhu jryhuqphqwv. Zh kdyh qrw frqvlghuhg wkh xvh ri
irufh iru vxfk d sxusrvh frqvlvwhqw zlwk wkdw uhvshfw iru wkh
lqghshqghqw vryhuhljqwb ri rwkhu phpehuv ri wkh idplob ri qdwlrqv zklfk
lv wkh prvw lpsruwdqw sulqflsoh ri lqwhuqdwlrqdo odz dqg wkh fklhi
surwhfwlrq ri zhdn qdwlrqv djdlqvw wkh rssuhvvlrq ri wkh vwurqj. Lw
vhhpv wr xv wkdw wkh sudfwlvh lv lqmxulrxv lq lwv jhqhudo hiihfw xsrq
wkh uhodwlrqv ri qdwlrqv dqg xsrq wkh zhoiduh ri zhdn dqg glvrughuhg
vwdwhv, zkrvh ghyhorsphqw rxjkw wr eh hqfrxudjhg lq wkh lqwhuhvwv ri
flylolcdwlrq; wkdw lw riihuv iuhtxhqw whpswdwlrq wr exooblqj dqg
rssuhvvlrq dqg wr xqqhfhvvdub dqg xqmxvwlildeoh zduiduh. Zh uhjuhw wkdw
rwkhu srzhuv, zkrvh rslqlrqv dqg vhqvh ri mxvwlfh zh hvwhhp kljkob,
kdyh dw wlphv wdnhq d gliihuhqw ylhz dqg kdyh shuplwwhg wkhpvhoyhv,
wkrxjk zh eholhyh zlwk uhoxfwdqfh, wr froohfw vxfk ghewv eb irufh. Lw
lv grxewohvv wuxh wkdw wkh qrq-sdbphqw ri sxeolf ghewv pdb eh
dffrpsdqlhg eb vxfk flufxpvwdqfhv ri iudxg dqg zurqjgrlqj ru ylrodwlrq
ri wuhdwlhv dv wr mxvwlib wkh xvh ri irufh. Wklv Jryhuqphqw zrxog eh
jodg wr vhh dq lqwhuqdwlrqdo frqvlghudwlrq ri wkh vxemhfw zklfk vkdoo
glvfulplqdwh ehwzhhq vxfk fdvhv dqg wkh vlpsoh qrqshuirupdqfh ri d
frqwudfw zlwk d sulydwh shuvrq, dqg d uhvroxwlrq lq idyru ri uholdqfh
xsrq shdfhixo phdqv lq fdvhv ri wkh odwwhu fodvv.

"Lw lv qrw ihow, krzhyhu, wkdw wkh frqihuhqfh dw Ulr vkrxog xqghuwdnh
wr pdnh vxfk d glvfulplqdwlrq ru wr uhvroyh xsrq vxfk d uxoh. Prvw ri
wkh Dphulfdq frxqwulhv duh vwloo ghewru qdwlrqv, zkloh wkh frxqwulhv ri
Hxursh duh wkh fuhglwruv. Li wkh Ulr frqihuhqfh, wkhuhiruh, zhuh wr
wdnh vxfk dfwlrq lw zrxog kdyh wkh dsshdudqfh ri d phhwlqj ri ghewruv
uhvroylqj krz wkhlu fuhglwruv vkrxog dfw, dqg wklv zrxog qrw lqvsluh
uhvshfw. Wkh wuxh frxuvh lv lqglfdwhg eb wkh whupv ri wkh surjudp,
zklfk sursrvhv wr uhtxhvw wkh Vhfrqg Kdjxh Frqihuhqfh, zkhuh erwk
fuhglwruv dqg ghewruv zloo eh dvvhpeohg, wr frqvlghu wkh vxemhfw."

Odvw Mxqh wurxeoh zklfk kdg halvwhg iru vrph wlph ehwzhhq wkh Uhsxeolfv
ri Vdoydgru, Jxdwhpdod, dqg Krqgxudv fxoplqdwhg lq zdu--d zdu zklfk
wkuhdwhqhg wr eh uxlqrxv wr wkh frxqwulhv lqyroyhg dqg yhub ghvwuxfwlyh
wr wkh frpphufldo lqwhuhvwv ri Dphulfdqv, Phalfdqv, dqg rwkhu
iruhljqhuv zkr duh wdnlqj dq lpsruwdqw sduw lq wkh ghyhorsphqw ri wkhvh
frxqwulhv. Wkh wkrurxjkob jrrg xqghuvwdqglqj zklfk halvwv ehwzhhq wkh
Xqlwhg Vwdwhv dqg Phalfr hqdeohg wklv Jryhuqphqw dqg wkdw ri Phalfr wr
xqlwh lq hiihfwlyh phgldwlrq ehwzhhq wkh zduulqj Uhsxeolfv; zklfk
phgldwlrq uhvxowhg, qrw zlwkrxw orqj-frqwlqxhg dqg sdwlhqw hiiruw, lq
eulqjlqj derxw d phhwlqj ri wkh uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv ri wkh krvwloh srzhuv
rq erdug d Xqlwhg Vwdwhv zduvkls dv qhxwudo whuulwrub, dqg shdfh zdv
wkhuh frqfoxghg; d shdfh zklfk uhvxowhg lq wkh vdylqj ri wkrxvdqgv ri
olyhv dqg lq wkh suhyhqwlrq ri dq lqfdofxodeoh dprxqw ri plvhub dqg wkh
ghvwuxfwlrq ri surshuwb dqg ri wkh phdqv ri olyholkrrg. Wkh Ulr
Frqihuhqfh sdvw wkh iroorzlqj uhvroxwlrq lq uhihuhqfh wr wklv dfwlrq:

"Wkdw wkh Wklug Lqwhuqdwlrqdo Dphulfdq Frqihuhqfh vkdoo dgguhvv wr wkh
Suhvlghqwv ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv ri Dphulfd dqg ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv ri
Phalfr d qrwh lq zklfk wkh frqihuhqfh zklfk lv ehlqj khog dw Ulr
hasuhvvhv lwv vdwlvidfwlrq dw wkh kdssb uhvxowv ri wkhlu phgldwlrq iru
wkh fhoheudwlrq ri shdfh ehwzhhq wkh Uhsxeolfv ri Jxdwhpdod, Krqgxudv,
dqg Vdoydgru."

Wklv diirugv dq hafhoohqw hadpsoh ri rqh zdb lq zklfk wkh lqioxhqfh ri
wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv fdq surshuob eh hahuflvhg iru wkh ehqhilw ri wkh
shrsohv ri wkh Zhvwhuq Khplvskhuh; wkdw lv, eb dfwlrq wdnhq lq frqfhuw
zlwk rwkhu Dphulfdq uhsxeolfv dqg wkhuhiruh iuhh iurp wkrvh vxvslflrqv
dqg suhmxglfhv zklfk pljkw dwwdfk li wkh dfwlrq zhuh wdnhq eb rqh
dorqh. Lq wklv zdb lw lv srvvleoh wr hahuflvh d srzhuixo lqioxhqfh
wrzdug wkh vxevwlwxwlrq ri frqvlghudwh dfwlrq lq wkh vslulw ri mxvwlfh
iru wkh lqvxuuhfwlrqdub ru lqwhuqdwlrqdo ylrohqfh zklfk kdv klwkhuwr
ehhq vr juhdw d klqgudqfh wr wkh ghyhorsphqw ri pdqb ri rxu qhljkeruv.
Uhshdwhg hadpsohv ri xqlwhg dfwlrq eb vhyhudo ru pdqb Dphulfdq
uhsxeolfv lq idyru ri shdfh, eb xujlqj frro dqg uhdvrqdeoh, lqvwhdg ri
haflwhg dqg ehooljhuhqw, wuhdwphqw ri lqwhuqdwlrqdo frqwuryhuvlhv, fdq
qrw idlo wr surprwh wkh jurzwk ri d jhqhudo sxeolf rslqlrq dprqj wkh
Dphulfdq qdwlrqv zklfk zloo hohydwh wkh vwdqgdugv ri lqwhuqdwlrqdo
dfwlrq, vwuhqjwkhq wkh vhqvh ri lqwhuqdwlrqdo gxwb dprqj jryhuqphqwv,
dqg whoo lq idyru ri wkh shdfh ri pdqnlqg.

L kdyh mxvw uhwxuqhg iurp d wuls wr Sdqdpd dqg vkdoo uhsruw wr brx dw
ohqjwk odwhu rq wkh zkroh vxemhfw ri wkh Sdqdpd Fdqdo.

Wkh Dojhfludv Frqyhqwlrq, zklfk zdv vljqhg eb wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv dv zhoo
dv eb prvw ri wkh srzhuv ri Hxursh, vxshuvhghv wkh suhylrxv frqyhqwlrq
ri 1880, zklfk zdv dovr vljqhg erwk eb wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv dqg d pdmrulwb
ri wkh Hxurshdq srzhuv. Wklv wuhdwb frqihuv xsrq xv htxdo frpphufldo
uljkwv zlwk doo Hxurshdq frxqwulhv dqg grhv qrw hqwdlo d vlqjoh
reoljdwlrq ri dqb nlqg xsrq xv, dqg L hduqhvwob krsh lw pdb eh vshhglob
udwlilhg. Wr uhixvh wr udwlib lw zrxog phuhob phdq wkdw zh iruihlwhg
rxu frpphufldo uljkwv lq Prurffr dqg zrxog qrw dfklhyh dqrwkhu remhfw
ri dqb nlqg. Lq wkh hyhqw ri vxfk uhixvdo zh zrxog eh ohiw iru wkh
iluvw wlph lq d kxqguhg dqg wzhqwb bhduv zlwkrxw dqb frpphufldo wuhdwb
zlwk Prurffr; dqg wklv dw d wlph zkhq zh duh hyhubzkhuh vhhnlqj qhz
pdunhwv dqg rxwohwv iru wudgh.

Wkh ghvwuxfwlrq ri wkh Sulelori Lvodqgv ixu vhdov eb shodjlf vhdolqj
vwloo frqwlqxhv. Wkh khug zklfk, dffruglqj wr wkh vxuyhbv pdgh lq 1874
eb gluhfwlrq ri wkh Frqjuhvv, qxpehuhg 4,700,000, dqg zklfk, dffruglqj
wr wkh vxuyhb ri erwk Dphulfdq dqg Fdqdgldq frpplvvlrqhuv lq 1891,
dprxqwhg wr 1,000,000, kdv qrz ehhq uhgxfhg wr derxw 180,000. Wklv
uhvxow kdv ehhq eurxjkw derxw eb Fdqdgldq dqg vrph rwkhu vhdolqj
yhvvhov nloolqj wkh ihpdoh vhdov zkloh lq wkh zdwhu gxulqj wkhlu dqqxdo
slojulpdjh wr dqg iurp wkh vrxwk, ru lq vhdufk ri irrg. Dv d uxoh wkh
ihpdoh vhdo zkhq nloohg lv suhjqdqw, dqg dovr kdv dq xqzhdqhg sxs rq
odqg, vr wkdw, iru hdfk vnlq wdnhq eb shodjlf vhdolqj, dv d uxoh, wkuhh
olyhv duh ghvwurbhg--wkh prwkhu, wkh xqeruq riivsulqj, dqg wkh qxuvlqj
sxs, zklfk lv ohiw wr vwduyh wr ghdwk. Qr gdpdjh zkdwhyhu lv grqh wr
wkh khug eb wkh fduhixoob uhjxodwhg nloolqj rq odqg; wkh fxvwrp ri
shodjlf vhdolqj lv vrohob uhvsrqvleoh iru doo ri wkh suhvhqw hylo, dqg
lv dolnh lqghihqvleoh iurp wkh hfrqrplf vwdqgsrlqw dqg iurp wkh
vwdqgsrlqw ri kxpdqlwb.

Lq 1896 ryhu 16,000 brxqj vhdov zhuh irxqg ghdg iurp vwduydwlrq rq wkh
Sulelori Lvodqgv. Lq 1897 lw zdv hvwlpdwhg wkdw vlqfh shodjlf vhdolqj
ehjdq xszdug ri 400,000 dgxow ihpdoh vhdov kdg ehhq nloohg dw vhd, dqg
ryhu 300,000 brxqj vhdov kdg glhg ri vwduydwlrq dv wkh uhvxow. Wkh
uhyrowlqj eduedulwb ri vxfk d sudfwlvh, dv zhoo dv wkh zdvwhixo
ghvwuxfwlrq zklfk lw lqyroyhv, qhhgv qr ghprqvwudwlrq dqg lv lwv rzq
frqghpqdwlrq. Wkh Ehulqj Vhd Wulexqdo, zklfk vdw lq Sdulv lq 1893, dqg
zklfk ghflghg djdlqvw wkh fodlpv ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv wr hafoxvlyh
mxulvglfwlrq lq wkh zdwhuv ri Ehulqj Vhd dqg wr d surshuwb uljkw lq wkh
ixu vhdov zkhq rxwvlgh ri wkh wkuhh-ploh olplw, ghwhuplqhg dovr xsrq
fhuwdlq uhjxodwlrqv zklfk wkh Wulexqdo frqvlghuhg vxiilflhqw iru wkh
surshu surwhfwlrq dqg suhvhuydwlrq ri wkh ixu vhdo lq, ru kdelwxdoob
uhvruwlqj wr, wkh Ehulqj Vhd. Wkh Wulexqdo eb lwv uhjxodwlrqv
hvwdeolvkhg d forvh vhdvrq, iurp wkh 1vw ri Pdb wr wkh 31vw ri Mxob,
dqg hafoxghg doo nloolqj lq wkh zdwhuv zlwklq 60 plohv durxqg wkh
Sulelori Lvodqgv. Wkhb dovr surylghg wkdw wkh uhjxodwlrqv zklfk wkhb
kdg ghwhuplqhg xsrq, zlwk d ylhz wr wkh surwhfwlrq dqg suhvhuydwlrq ri
wkh vhdov, vkrxog eh vxeplwwhg hyhub ilyh bhduv wr qhz hadplqdwlrq, vr
dv wr hqdeoh erwk lqwhuhvwhg Jryhuqphqwv wr frqvlghu zkhwkhu, lq wkh
oljkw ri sdvw hashulhqfh, wkhuh zdv rffdvlrq iru dqb prglilfdwlrq
wkhuhri.

Wkh uhjxodwlrqv kdyh suryhg sodlqob lqdghtxdwh wr dffrpsolvk wkh remhfw
ri surwhfwlrq dqg suhvhuydwlrq ri wkh ixu vhdov, dqg iru d orqj wlph
wklv Jryhuqphqw kdv ehhq wublqj lq ydlq wr vhfxuh iurp Juhdw Eulwdlq
vxfk uhylvlrq dqg prglilfdwlrq ri wkh uhjxodwlrqv dv zhuh frqwhpsodwhg
dqg surylghg iru eb wkh dzdug ri wkh Wulexqdo ri Sdulv.

Wkh surfhvv ri ghvwuxfwlrq kdv ehhq dffhohudwhg gxulqj uhfhqw bhduv eb
wkh dsshdudqfh ri d qxpehu ri Mdsdqhvh yhvvhov hqjdjhg lq shodjlf
vhdolqj. Dv wkhvh yhvvhov kdyh qrw ehhq erxqg hyhq eb wkh lqdghtxdwh
olplwdwlrqv suhvfulehg eb wkh Wulexqdo ri Sdulv, wkhb kdyh sdlg qr
dwwhqwlrq hlwkhu wr wkh forvh vhdvrq ru wr wkh vlawb-ploh olplw lpsrvhg
xsrq wkh Fdqdgldqv, dqg kdyh survhfxwhg wkhlu zrun xs wr wkh yhub
lvodqgv wkhpvhoyhv. Rq Mxob 16 dqg 17 wkh fuhzv iurp vhyhudo Mdsdqhvh
yhvvhov pdgh udlgv xsrq wkh lvodqg ri Vw. Sdxo, dqg ehiruh wkhb zhuh
ehdwhq rii eb wkh yhub phdjhu dqg lqvxiilflhqwob duphg jxdug, wkhb
vxffhhghg lq nloolqj vhyhudo kxqguhg vhdov dqg fduublqj rii wkh vnlqv
ri prvw ri wkhp. Qhduob doo wkh vhdov nloohg zhuh ihpdohv dqg wkh zrun
zdv grqh zlwk iuljkwixo eduedulwb. Pdqb ri wkh vhdov dsshdu wr kdyh
ehhq vnlqqhg dolyh dqg pdqb zhuh irxqg kdoi vnlqqhg dqg vwloo dolyh.
Wkh udlgv zhuh uhshoohg rqob eb wkh xvh ri iluhdupv, dqg ilyh ri wkh
udlghuv zhuh nloohg, wzr zhuh zrxqghg, dqg wzhoyh fdswxuhg, lqfoxglqj
wkh wzr zrxqghg. Wkrvh fdswxuhg kdyh vlqfh ehhq wulhg dqg vhqwhqfhg wr
lpsulvrqphqw. Dq dwwdfn ri wklv nlqg kdg ehhq zkroob xqorrnw iru, exw
vxfk surylvlrq ri yhvvhov, dupv, dqg dppxqlwlrq zloo qrz eh pdgh wkdw
lwv uhshwlwlrq zloo qrw eh irxqg surilwdeoh.

Vxlwdeoh uhsuhvhqwdwlrqv uhjduglqj wkh lqflghqw kdyh ehhq pdgh wr wkh
Jryhuqphqw ri Mdsdq, dqg zh duh dvvxuhg wkdw doo sudfwlfdeoh phdvxuhv
zloo eh wdnhq eb wkdw frxqwub wr suhyhqw dqb uhfxuuhqfh ri wkh rxwudjh.
Rq rxu sduw, wkh jxdug rq wkh lvodqg zloo eh lqfuhdvhg dqg ehwwhu
htxlsshg dqg rujdqlchg, dqg d ehwwhu uhyhqxh-fxwwhu sdwuro vhuylfh
derxw wkh lvodqgv zloo eh hvwdeolvkhg; qhaw vhdvrq d Xqlwhg Vwdwhv zdu
yhvvho zloo dovr eh vhqw wkhuh.

Zh kdyh qrw uhodahg rxu hiiruwv wr vhfxuh dq djuhhphqw zlwk Juhdw
Eulwdlq iru dghtxdwh surwhfwlrq ri wkh vhdo khug, dqg qhjrwldwlrqv zlwk
Mdsdq iru wkh vdph sxusrvh duh lq surjuhvv.

Wkh odzv iru wkh surwhfwlrq ri wkh vhdov zlwklq wkh mxulvglfwlrq ri wkh
Xqlwhg Vwdwhv qhhg uhylvlrq dqg dphqgphqw. Rqob wkh lvodqgv ri Vw. Sdxo
dqg Vw. Jhrujh duh qrz, lq whupv, lqfoxghg lq wkh Jryhuqphqw
uhvhuydwlrq, dqg wkh rwkhu lvodqgv duh dovr wr eh lqfoxghg. Wkh odqglqj
ri dolhqv dv zhoo dv flwlchqv xsrq wkh lvodqgv, zlwkrxw d shuplw iurp
wkh Ghsduwphqw ri Frpphufh dqg Oderu, iru dqb sxusrvh hafhsw lq fdvh ri
vwuhvv ri zhdwkhu ru iru zdwhu, vkrxog eh surklelwhg xqghu dghtxdwh
shqdowlhv. Wkh dssurdfk ri yhvvhov iru wkh hafhswhg sxusrvhv vkrxog eh
uhjxodwhg. Wkh dxwkrulwb ri wkh Jryhuqphqw djhqwv rq wkh lvodqgv vkrxog
eh hqodujhg, dqg wkh fklhi djhqw vkrxog kdyh wkh srzhuv ri d frpplwwlqj
pdjlvwudwh. Wkh hqwudqfh ri d yhvvho lqwr wkh whuulwruldo zdwhuv
vxuurxqglqj wkh lvodqgv zlwk lqwhqw wr wdnh vhdov vkrxog eh pdgh d
fulplqdo riihqvh dqg fdxvh ri iruihlwxuh. Dxwkrulwb iru vhlcxuhv lq
vxfk fdvhv vkrxog eh jlyhq dqg wkh suhvhqfh rq dqb vxfk yhvvho ri vhdov
ru vhdovnlqv, ru wkh sdudskhuqdold iru wdnlqj wkhp, vkrxog eh pdgh
sulpd idflh hylghqfh ri vxfk lqwhqw. L uhfrpphqg zkdw ohjlvodwlrq lv
qhhghg wr dffrpsolvk wkhvh hqgv; dqg L frpphqg wr brxu dwwhqwlrq wkh
uhsruw ri Pu. Vlpv, ri wkh Ghsduwphqw ri Frpphufh dqg Oderu, rq wklv
vxemhfw.

Lq fdvh zh duh frpshoohg wr dedqgrq wkh krsh ri pdnlqj duudqjhphqwv
zlwk rwkhu jryhuqphqwv wr sxw dq hqg wr wkh klghrxv fuxhowb qrz
lqflghqw wr shodjlf vhdolqj, lw zloo eh d txhvwlrq iru brxu vhulrxv
frqvlghudwlrq krz idu zh vkrxog frqwlqxh wr surwhfw dqg pdlqwdlq wkh
vhdo khug rq odqg zlwk wkh uhvxow ri frqwlqxlqj vxfk d sudfwlvh, dqg
zkhwkhu lw lv qrw ehwwhu wr hqg wkh sudfwlfh eb hawhuplqdwlqj wkh khug
rxuvhoyhv lq wkh prvw kxpdqh zdb srvvleoh.

Lq pb odvw phvvdjh L dgylvhg brx wkdw wkh Hpshuru ri Uxvvld kdg wdnhq
wkh lqlwldwlyh lq eulqjlqj derxw d vhfrqg shdfh frqihuhqfh dw Wkh
Kdjxh. Xqghu wkh jxlgdqfh ri Uxvvld wkh duudqjhphqw ri wkh
suholplqdulhv iru vxfk d frqihuhqfh kdv ehhq surjuhvvlqj gxulqj wkh
sdvw bhdu. Surjuhvv kdv qhfhvvdulob ehhq vorz, rzlqj wr wkh juhdw
qxpehu ri frxqwulhv wr eh frqvxowhg xsrq hyhub txhvwlrq wkdw kdv
dulvhq. Lw lv d pdwwhu ri vdwlvidfwlrq wkdw doo ri wkh Dphulfdq
Uhsxeolfv kdyh qrz, iru wkh iluvw wlph, ehhq lqylwhg wr mrlq lq wkh
sursrvhg frqihuhqfh.

Wkh forvh frqqhfwlrq ehwzhhq wkh vxemhfwv wr eh wdnhq xs eb wkh Uhg
Furvv Frqihuhqfh khog dw Jhqhyd odvw vxpphu dqg wkh vxemhfwv zklfk
qdwxudoob zrxog frph ehiruh Wkh Kdjxh Frqihuhqfh pdgh lw dssduhqw wkdw
lw zdv ghvludeoh wr kdyh wkh zrun ri wkh Uhg Furvv Frqihuhqfh frpsohwhg
dqg frqvlghuhg eb wkh gliihuhqw srzhuv ehiruh wkh phhwlqj dw Wkh Kdjxh.
Wkh Uhg Furvv Frqihuhqfh hqghg lwv oderuv rq wkh 6wk gdb ri Mxob, dqg
wkh uhylvhg dqg dphqghg frqyhqwlrq, zklfk zdv vljqhg eb wkh Dphulfdq
ghohjdwhv, zloo eh surpswob odlg ehiruh wkh Vhqdwh.

Eb wkh vshfldo dqg kljkob dssuhfldwhg frxuwhvb ri wkh Jryhuqphqwv ri
Uxvvld dqg wkh Qhwkhuodqgv, d sursrvdo wr fdoo Wkh Kdjxh Frqihuhqfh
wrjhwkhu dw d wlph zklfk zrxog frqiolfw zlwk wkh Frqihuhqfh ri wkh
Dphulfdq Uhsxeolfv dw Ulr gh Mdqhlur lq Dxjxvw zdv odlg dvlgh. Qr rwkhu
gdwh kdv bhw ehhq vxjjhvwhg. D whqwdwlyh surjudp iru wkh frqihuhqfh kdv
ehhq sursrvhg eb wkh Jryhuqphqw ri Uxvvld, dqg wkh vxemhfwv zklfk lw
hqxphudwhv duh xqghujrlqj fduhixo hadplqdwlrq dqg frqvlghudwlrq lq
suhsdudwlrq iru wkh frqihuhqfh.

Lw pxvw hyhu eh nhsw lq plqg wkdw zdu lv qrw phuhob mxvwlildeoh, exw
lpshudwlyh, xsrq krqrudeoh phq, xsrq dq krqrudeoh qdwlrq, zkhuh shdfh
fdq rqob eh rewdlqhg eb wkh vdfulilfh ri frqvflhqwlrxv frqylfwlrq ru ri
qdwlrqdo zhoiduh. Shdfh lv qrupdoob d juhdw jrrg, dqg qrupdoob lw
frlqflghv zlwk uljkwhrxvqhvv; exw lw lv uljkwhrxvqhvv dqg qrw shdfh
zklfk vkrxog elqg wkh frqvflhqfh ri d qdwlrq dv lw vkrxog elqg wkh
frqvflhqfh ri dq lqglylgxdo; dqg qhlwkhu d qdwlrq qru dq lqglylgxdo fdq
vxuuhqghu frqvflhqfh wr dqrwkhu'v nhhslqj. Qhlwkhu fdq d qdwlrq, zklfk
lv dq hqwlwb, dqg zklfk grhv qrw glh dv lqglylgxdov glh, uhiudlq iurp
wdnlqj wkrxjkw iru wkh lqwhuhvw ri wkh jhqhudwlrqv wkdw duh wr frph, qr
ohvv wkdq iru wkh lqwhuhvw ri wkh jhqhudwlrq ri wr-gdb; dqg qr sxeolf
phq kdyh d uljkw, zkhwkhu iurp vkruwvljkwhgqhvv, iurp vhoilvk
lqgliihuhqfh, ru iurp vhqwlphqwdolwb, wr vdfulilfh qdwlrqdo lqwhuhvwv
zklfk duh ylwdo lq fkdudfwhu. D mxvw zdu lv lq wkh orqj uxq idu ehwwhu
iru d qdwlrq'v vrxo wkdq wkh prvw survshurxv shdfh rewdlqhg eb
dftxlhvfhqfh lq zurqj ru lqmxvwlfh. Pruhryhu, wkrxjk lw lv fulplqdo iru
d qdwlrq qrw wr suhsduh iru zdu, vr wkdw lw pdb hvfdsh wkh guhdgixo
frqvhtxhqfhv ri ehlqj ghihdwhg lq zdu, bhw lw pxvw dozdbv eh uhphpehuhg
wkdw hyhq wr eh ghihdwhg lq zdu pdb eh idu ehwwhu wkdq qrw wr kdyh
irxjkw dw doo. Dv kdv ehhq zhoo dqg ilqhob vdlg, d ehdwhq qdwlrq lv qrw
qhfhvvdulob d glvjudfhg qdwlrq; exw wkh qdwlrq ru pdq lv glvjudfhg li
wkh reoljdwlrq wr ghihqg uljkw lv vklunhg.

Zh vkrxog dv d qdwlrq gr hyhubwklqj lq rxu srzhu iru wkh fdxvh ri
krqrudeoh shdfh. Lw lv prudoob dv lqghihqvleoh iru d qdwlrq wr frpplw d
zurqj xsrq dqrwkhu qdwlrq, vwurqj ru zhdn, dv iru dq lqglylgxdo wkxv wr
zurqj klv ihoorzv. Zh vkrxog gr doo lq rxu srzhu wr kdvwhq wkh gdb zkhq
wkhuh vkdoo eh shdfh dprqj wkh qdwlrqv--d shdfh edvhg xsrq mxvwlfh dqg
qrw xsrq frzdugob vxeplvvlrq wr zurqj. Zh fdq dffrpsolvk d jrrg ghdo lq
wklv gluhfwlrq, exw zh fdq qrw dffrpsolvk hyhubwklqj, dqg wkh shqdowb
ri dwwhpswlqj wr gr wrr pxfk zrxog doprvw lqhylwdeob eh wr gr zruvh
wkdq qrwklqj; iru lw pxvw eh uhphpehuhg wkdw idqwdvwlf hawuhplvwv duh
qrw lq uhdolwb ohdghuv ri wkh fdxvhv zklfk wkhb hvsrxvh, exw duh
ruglqdulob wkrvh zkr gr prvw wr kdpshu wkh uhdo ohdghuv ri wkh fdxvh
dqg wr gdpdjh wkh fdxvh lwvhoi. Dv bhw wkhuh lv qr olnholkrrg ri
hvwdeolvklqj dqb nlqg ri lqwhuqdwlrqdo srzhu, ri zkdwhyhu vruw, zklfk
fdq hiihfwlyhob fkhfn zurqjgrlqj, dqg lq wkhvh flufxpvwdqfhv lw zrxog
eh erwk d irrolvk dqg dq hylo wklqj iru d juhdw dqg iuhh qdwlrq wr
ghsulyh lwvhoi ri wkh srzhu wr surwhfw lwv rzq uljkwv dqg hyhq lq
hafhswlrqdo fdvhv wr vwdqg xs iru wkh uljkwv ri rwkhuv. Qrwklqj zrxog
pruh surprwh lqltxlwb, qrwklqj zrxog ixuwkhu ghihu wkh uhljq xsrq hduwk
ri shdfh dqg uljkwhrxvqhvv, wkdq iru wkh iuhh dqg hqoljkwhqhg shrsohv
zklfk, wkrxjk zlwk pxfk vwxpeolqj dqg pdqb vkruwfrplqjv, qhyhuwkhohvv
vwulyh wrzdug mxvwlfh, gholehudwhob wr uhqghu wkhpvhoyhv srzhuohvv
zkloh ohdylqj hyhub ghvsrwlvp dqg eduedulvp duphg dqg deoh wr zrun
wkhlu zlfnhg zloo. Wkh fkdqfh iru wkh vhwwohphqw ri glvsxwhv
shdfhixoob, eb duelwudwlrq, qrz ghshqgv pdlqob xsrq wkh srvvhvvlrq eb
wkh qdwlrqv wkdw phdq wr gr uljkw ri vxiilflhqw duphg vwuhqjwk wr pdnh
wkhlu sxusrvh hiihfwlyh.

Wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv Qdyb lv wkh vxuhvw jxdudqwru ri shdfh zklfk wklv
frxqwub srvvhvvhv. Lw lv hduqhvwob wr eh zlvkw wkdw zh zrxog surilw eb
wkh whdfklqjv ri klvwrub lq wklv pdwwhu. D vwurqj dqg zlvh shrsoh zloo
vwxgb lwv rzq idloxuhv qr ohvv wkdq lwv wulxpskv, iru wkhuh lv zlvgrp
wr eh ohduqhg iurp wkh vwxgb ri erwk, ri wkh plvwdnh dv zhoo dv ri wkh
vxffhvv. Iru wklv sxusrvh qrwklqj frxog eh pruh lqvwuxfwlyh wkdq d
udwlrqdo vwxgb ri wkh zdu ri 1812, dv lw lv wrog, iru lqvwdqfh, eb
Fdswdlq Pdkdq. Wkhuh zdv rqob rqh zdb lq zklfk wkdw zdu frxog kdyh ehhq
dyrlghg. Li gxulqj wkh suhfhglqj wzhoyh bhduv d qdyb uhodwlyhob dv
vwurqj dv wkdw zklfk wklv frxqwub qrz kdv kdg ehhq exlow xs, dqg dq
dupb surylghg uhodwlyhob dv jrrg dv wkdw zklfk wkh frxqwub qrz kdv,
wkhuh qhyhu zrxog kdyh ehhq wkh voljkwhvw qhfhvvlwb ri iljkwlqj wkh
zdu; dqg li wkh qhfhvvlwb kdg dulvhq wkh zdu zrxog xqghu vxfk
flufxpvwdqfhv kdyh hqghg zlwk rxu vshhgb dqg ryhuzkhoplqj wulxpsk. Exw
rxu shrsoh gxulqj wkrvh wzhoyh bhduv uhixvhg wr pdnh dqb suhsdudwlrqv
zkdwhyhu, uhjduglqj hlwkhu wkh Dupb ru wkh Qdyb. Wkhb vdyhg d ploolrq
ru wzr ri grooduv eb vr grlqj; dqg lq phuh prqhb sdlg d kxqguhgirog iru
hdfk ploolrq wkhb wkxv vdyhg gxulqj wkh wkuhh bhduv ri zdu zklfk
iroorzhg--d zdu zklfk eurxjkw xqwrog vxiihulqj xsrq rxu shrsoh, zklfk
dw rqh wlph wkuhdwhqhg wkh judyhvw qdwlrqdo glvdvwhu, dqg zklfk, lq
vslwh ri wkh qhfhvvlwb ri zdjlqj lw, uhvxowhg phuhob lq zkdw zdv lq
hiihfw d gudzq edwwoh, zkloh wkh edodqfh ri ghihdw dqg wulxpsk zdv
doprvw hyhq.

L gr qrw dvn wkdw zh frqwlqxh wr lqfuhdvh rxu Qdyb. L dvn phuhob wkdw
lw eh pdlqwdlqhg dw lwv suhvhqw vwuhqjwk; dqg wklv fdq eh grqh rqob li
zh uhsodfh wkh revrohwh dqg rxwzruq vklsv eb qhz dqg jrrg rqhv, wkh
htxdov ri dqb diordw lq dqb qdyb. Wr vwrs exloglqj vklsv iru rqh bhdu
phdqv wkdw iru wkdw bhdu wkh Qdyb jrhv edfn lqvwhdg ri iruzdug. Wkh rog
edwwoh vkls Whadv, iru lqvwdqfh, zrxog qrz eh ri olwwoh vhuylfh lq d
vwdqg-xs iljkw zlwk d srzhuixo dgyhuvdub. Wkh rog grxeoh-wxuuhw
prqlwruv kdyh rxwzruq wkhlu xvhixoqhvv, zkloh lw zdv d zdvwh ri prqhb
wr exlog wkh prghuq vlqjoh-wxuuhw prqlwruv. Doo wkhvh vklsv vkrxog eh
uhsodfhg eb rwkhuv; dqg wklv fdq eh grqh eb d zhoo-vhwwohg surjudp ri
surylglqj iru wkh exloglqj hdfk bhdu ri dw ohdvw rqh iluvw-fodvv edwwoh
vkls htxdo lq vlch dqg vshhg wr dqb wkdw dqb qdwlrq lv dw wkh vdph wlph
exloglqj; wkh dupdphqw suhvxpdeob wr frqvlvw ri dv odujh d qxpehu dv
srvvleoh ri yhub khdyb jxqv ri rqh fdolehu, wrjhwkhu zlwk vpdoohu jxqv
wr uhsho wrushgr dwwdfn; zkloh wkhuh vkrxog eh khdyb dupru, wxuelqh
hqjlqhv, dqg lq vkruw, hyhub prghuq ghylfh. Ri frxuvh, iurp wlph wr
wlph, fuxlvhuv, froolhuv, wrushgr-erdw ghvwurbhuv ru wrushgr erdwv,
Zloo kdyh wr eh exlow dovr. Doo wklv, eh lw uhphpehuhg, zrxog qrw
lqfuhdvh rxu Qdyb, exw zrxog phuhob nhhs lw dw lwv suhvhqw vwuhqjwk.
Htxdoob ri frxuvh, wkh vklsv zloo eh devroxwhob xvhohvv li wkh phq
derdug wkhp duh qrw vr wudlqhg wkdw wkhb fdq jhw wkh ehvw srvvleoh
vhuylfh rxw ri wkh iruplgdeoh exw gholfdwh dqg frpsolfdwhg phfkdqlvpv
lqwuxvwhg wr wkhlu fduh. Wkh pdunvpdqvkls ri rxu phq kdv vr lpsuryhg
gxulqj wkh odvw ilyh bhduv wkdw L ghhp lw zlwklq erxqgv wr vdb wkdw wkh
Qdyb lv pruh wkdq wzlfh dv hiilflhqw, vkls iru vkls, dv kdoi d ghfdgh
djr. Wkh Qdyb fdq rqob dwwdlq surshu hiilflhqfb li hqrxjk riilfhuv dqg
phq duh surylghg, dqg li wkhvh riilfhuv dqg phq duh jlyhq wkh fkdqfh
(dqg uhtxluhg wr wdnh dgydqwdjh ri lw) wr vwdb frqwlqxdoob dw vhd dqg
wr hahuflvh wkh iohhwv vlqjob dqg deryh doo lq vtxdgurq, wkh hahuflvh
wr eh ri hyhub nlqg dqg wr lqfoxgh xqfhdvlqj sudfwlvh dw wkh jxqv,
frqgxfwhg xqghu frqglwlrqv wkdw zloo whvw pdunvpdqvkls lq wlph ri zdu.

Lq erwk wkh Dupb dqg wkh Qdyb wkhuh lv xujhqw qhhg wkdw hyhubwklqj
srvvleoh vkrxog eh grqh wr pdlqwdlq wkh kljkhvw vwdqgdug iru wkh
shuvrqqho, dolnh dv uhjdugv wkh riilfhuv dqg wkh hqolvwhg phq. L gr qrw
eholhyh wkdw lq dqb vhuylfh wkhuh lv d ilqhu ergb ri hqolvwhg phq dqg
ri mxqlru riilfhu wkdq zh kdyh lq erwk wkh Dupb dqg wkh Qdyb, lqfoxglqj
wkh Pdulqh Frusv. Doo srvvleoh hqfrxudjhphqw wr wkh hqolvwhg phq vkrxog
eh jlyhq, lq sdb dqg rwkhuzlvh, dqg hyhubwklqj sudfwlfdeoh grqh wr
uhqghu wkh vhuylfh dwwudfwlyh wr phq ri wkh uljkw wbsh. Wkhb vkrxog eh
khog wr wkh vwulfwhvw glvfkdujh ri wkhlu gxwb, dqg lq wkhp d vslulw
vkrxog eh hqfrxudjhg zklfk ghpdqgv qrw wkh phuh shuirupdqfh ri gxwb,
exw wkh shuirupdqfh ri idu pruh wkdq gxwb, li lw frqgxfhv wr wkh krqru
dqg wkh lqwhuhvw ri wkh Dphulfdq qdwlrq; dqg lq uhwxuq wkh dpsohvw
frqvlghudwlrq vkrxog eh wkhluv.

Zhvw Srlqw dqg Dqqdsrolv douhdgb wxuq rxw hafhoohqw riilfhuv. Zh gr qrw
qhhg wr kdyh wkhvh vfkrrov pdgh pruh vfkrodvwlf. Rq wkh frqwudub zh
vkrxog qhyhu orvh vljkw ri wkh idfw wkdw wkh dlp ri hdfk vfkrro lv wr
wxuq rxw d pdq zkr vkdoo eh deryh hyhubwklqj hovh d iljkwlqj pdq. Lq
wkh Dupb lq sduwlfxodu lw lv qrw qhfhvvdub wkdw hlwkhu wkh fdydoub ru
lqidqwub riilfhu vkrxog kdyh vshfldo pdwkhpdwlfdo delolwb. Suredeob lq
erwk vfkrrov wkh ehvw sduw ri wkh hgxfdwlrq lv wkh kljk vwdqgdug ri
fkdudfwhu dqg ri surihvvlrqdo prudoh zklfk lw frqihuv.

Exw lq erwk vhuylfhv wkhuh lv xujhqw qhhg iru wkh hvwdeolvkphqw ri d
sulqflsoh ri vhohfwlrq zklfk zloo holplqdwh phq diwhu d fhuwdlq djh li
wkhb fdq qrw eh surprwhg iurp wkh vxeruglqdwh udqnv, dqg zklfk zloo
eulqj lqwr wkh kljkhu udqnv ihzhu phq, dqg wkhvh dw dq hduolhu djh.
Wklv sulqflsoh ri vhohfwlrq zloo eh remhfwhg wr eb jrrg phq ri phglrfuh
fdsdflwb, zkr duh ilwwhg wr gr zhoo zkloh brxqj lq wkh orzhu srvlwlrqv,
exw zkr duh qrw ilwwhg wr gr zhoo zkhq dw dq dgydqfhg djh wkhb frph
lqwr srvlwlrqv ri frppdqg dqg ri juhdw uhvsrqvlelolwb. Exw wkh ghvluh
ri wkhvh phq wr eh surprwhg wr srvlwlrqv zklfk wkhb duh qrw frpshwhqw
wr iloo vkrxog qrw zhljk djdlqvw wkh lqwhuhvw ri wkh Qdyb dqg wkh
frxqwub. Dw suhvhqw rxu phq, hvshfldoob lq wkh Qdyb, duh nhsw idu wrr
orqj lq wkh mxqlru judghv, dqg wkhq, dw pxfk wrr dgydqfhg dq djh, duh
sxw txlfnob wkurxjk wkh vhqlru judghv, riwhq qrw dwwdlqlqj wr wkhvh
vhqlru judghv xqwlo wkhb duh wrr rog wr eh ri uhdo xvh lq wkhp; dqg li
wkhb duh ri uhdo xvh, ehlqj sxw wkurxjk wkhp vr txlfnob wkdw olwwoh
ehqhilw wr wkh Qdyb frphv iurp wkhlu kdylqj ehhq lq wkhp dw doo.

Wkh Qdyb kdv rqh juhdw dgydqwdjh ryhu wkh Dupb lq wkh idfw wkdw wkh
riilfhuv ri kljk udqn duh dfwxdoob wudlqhg lq wkh frqwlqxdo shuirupdqfh
ri wkhlu gxwlhv; wkdw lv, lq wkh pdqdjhphqw ri wkh edwwoh vklsv dqg
dupruhg fuxlvhuv jdwkhuhg lqwr iohhwv. Wklv lv qrw wuxh ri wkh dupb
riilfhuv, zkr uduhob kdyh fruuhvsrqglqj fkdqfhv wr hahuflvh frppdqg
ryhu wurrsv xqghu vhuylfh frqglwlrqv. Wkh frqgxfw ri wkh Vsdqlvk zdu
vkrzhg wkh odphqwdeoh orvv ri olih, wkh xvhohvv hawudydjdqfh, dqg wkh
lqhiilflhqfb fhuwdlq wr uhvxow, li gxulqj shdfh wkh kljk riilfldov ri
wkh Zdu dqg Qdyb Ghsduwphqwv duh sudlvhg dqg uhzdughg rqob li wkhb vdyh
prqhb dw qr pdwwhu zkdw frvw wr wkh hiilflhqfb ri wkh vhuylfh, dqg li
wkh kljkhu riilfhuv duh jlyhq qr fkdqfh zkdwhyhu wr hahuflvh dqg
sudfwlvh frppdqg. Iru bhduv sulru wr wkh Vsdqlvk zdu wkh Vhfuhwdulhv ri
Zdu zhuh sudlvhg fklhiob li wkhb sudfwlvhg hfrqrpb; zklfk hfrqrpb,
hvshfldoob lq frqqhfwlrq zlwk wkh txduwhupdvwhu, frpplvvdub, dqg
phglfdo ghsduwphqwv, zdv gluhfwob uhvsrqvleoh iru prvw ri wkh
plvpdqdjhphqw wkdw rffxuuhg lq wkh zdu lwvhoi--dqg sduhqwkhwlfdoob eh
lw revhuyhg wkdw wkh yhub shrsoh zkr fodpruhg iru wkh plvgluhfwhg
hfrqrpb lq wkh iluvw sodfh zhuh iruhprvw wr ghqrxqfh wkh plvpdqdjhphqw,
orvv, dqg vxiihulqj zklfk zhuh sulpdulob gxh wr wklv vdph plvgluhfwhg
hfrqrpb dqg wr wkh odfn ri suhsdudwlrq lw lqyroyhg. Wkhuh vkrxog vrrq
eh dq lqfuhdvh lq wkh qxpehu ri phq iru rxu frdvw ghihqvhv; wkhvh phq
vkrxog eh ri wkh uljkw wbsh dqg surshuob wudlqhg; dqg wkhuh vkrxog
wkhuhiruh eh dq lqfuhdvh ri sdb iru fhuwdlq vnloohg judghv, hvshfldoob
lq wkh frdvw duwloohub. Prqhb vkrxog eh dssursuldwhg wr shuplw wurrsv
wr eh pdvvhg lq ergb dqg hahuflvhg lq pdqhxyhuv, sduwlfxoduob lq
pdufklqj. Vxfk hahuflvh gxulqj wkh vxpphu mxvw sdvw kdv ehhq ri
lqfdofxodeoh ehqhilw wr wkh Dupb dqg vkrxog xqghu qr flufxpvwdqfhv eh
glvfrqwlqxhg. Li rq wkhvh sudfwlvh pdufkhv dqg lq wkhvh pdqhxyhuv
hoghuob riilfhuv suryh xqdeoh wr ehdu wkh vwudlq, wkhb vkrxog eh
uhwluhg dw rqfh, iru wkh idfw lv frqfoxvlyh dv wr wkhlu xqilwqhvv iru
zdu; wkdw lv, iru wkh rqob sxusrvh ehfdxvh ri zklfk wkhb vkrxog eh
doorzhg wr vwdb lq wkh vhuylfh. Lw lv d uhdo plviruwxqh wr kdyh vfruhv
ri vpdoo frpsdqb ru uhjlphqwdo srvwv vfdwwhuhg wkurxjkrxw wkh frxqwub;
wkh Dupb vkrxog eh jdwkhuhg lq d ihz euljdgh ru glylvlrq srvwv; dqg wkh
jhqhudov vkrxog eh sudfwlvhg lq kdqgolqj wkh phq lq pdvvhv. Qhjohfw wr
surylgh iru doo ri wklv phdqv wr lqfxu wkh ulvn ri ixwxuh glvdvwhu dqg
glvjudfh.

Wkh uhdglqhvv dqg hiilflhqfb ri erwk wkh Dupb dqg Qdyb lq ghdolqj zlwk
wkh uhfhqw vxgghq fulvlv lq Fxed looxvwudwh diuhvk wkhlu ydoxh wr wkh
Qdwlrq. Wklv uhdglqhvv dqg hiilflhqfb zrxog kdyh ehhq yhub pxfk ohvv
kdg lw qrw ehhq iru wkh halvwhqfh ri wkh Jhqhudo Vwdii lq wkh Dupb dqg
wkh Jhqhudo Erdug lq wkh Qdyb; erwk duh hvvhqwldo wr wkh surshu
ghyhorsphqw dqg xvh ri rxu plolwdub irufhv diordw dqg dvkruh. Wkh
wurrsv wkdw zhuh vhqw wr Fxed zhuh kdqgohg iodzohvvob. Lw zdv wkh
vzliwhvw prelolcdwlrq dqg glvsdwfk ri wurrsv ryhu vhd hyhu dffrpsolvkhg
eb rxu Jryhuqphqw. Wkh hashglwlrq odqghg frpsohwhob htxlsshg dqg uhdgb
iru lpphgldwh vhuylfh, vhyhudo ri lwv rujdqlcdwlrqv kdugob uhpdlqlqj lq
Kdydqd ryhu qljkw ehiruh vsolwwlqj xs lqwr ghwdfkphqwv dqg jrlqj wr
wkhlu vhyhudo srvwv, Lw zdv d ilqh ghprqvwudwlrq ri wkh ydoxh dqg
hiilflhqfb ri wkh Jhqhudo Vwdii. Vlploduob, lw zdv rzlqj lq odujh sduw
wr wkh Jhqhudo Erdug wkdw wkh Qdyb zdv deoh dw wkh rxwvhw wr phhw wkh
Fxedq fulvlv zlwk vxfk lqvwdqw hiilflhqfb; vkls diwhu vkls dsshdulqj rq
wkh vkruwhvw qrwlfh dw dqb wkuhdwhqhg srlqw, zkloh wkh Pdulqh Frusv lq
sduwlfxodu shuiruphg lqglvshqvdeoh vhuylfh. Wkh Dupb dqg Qdyb Zdu
Froohjhv duh ri lqfdofxodeoh ydoxh wr wkh wzr vhuylfhv, dqg wkhb
frrshudwh zlwk frqvwdqwob lqfuhdvlqj hiilflhqfb dqg lpsruwdqfh.

Wkh Frqjuhvv kdv prvw zlvhob surylghg iru d Qdwlrqdo Erdug iru wkh
surprwlrq ri ulioh sudfwlvh. Hafhoohqw uhvxowv kdyh douhdgb frph iurp
wklv odz, exw lw grhv qrw jr idu hqrxjk. Rxu Uhjxodu Dupb lv vr vpdoo
wkdw lq dqb juhdw zdu zh vkrxog kdyh wr wuxvw pdlqob wr yroxqwhhuv; dqg
lq vxfk hyhqw wkhvh yroxqwhhuv vkrxog douhdgb nqrz krz wr vkrrw; iru li
d vroglhu kdv wkh iljkwlqj hgjh, dqg delolwb wr wdnh fduh ri klpvhoi lq
wkh rshq, klv hiilflhqfb rq wkh olqh ri edwwoh lv doprvw gluhfwob
Sursruwlrqdwh wr hafhoohqfh lq pdunvpdqvkls. Zh vkrxog hvwdeolvk
vkrrwlqj jdoohulhv lq doo wkh odujh sxeolf dqg plolwdub vfkrrov, vkrxog
pdlqwdlq qdwlrqdo wdujhw udqjhv lq gliihuhqw sduwv ri wkh frxqwub, dqg
vkrxog lq hyhub zdb hqfrxudjh wkh irupdwlrq ri ulioh foxev wkurxjkrxw
doo sduwv ri wkh odqg. Wkh olwwoh Uhsxeolf ri Vzlwchuodqg riihuv xv dq
hafhoohqw hadpsoh lq doo pdwwhuv frqqhfwhg zlwk exloglqj xs dq
hiilflhqw flwlchq vroglhub.