Yd. Bdqeupqzf, Yd. Ebqmwqd, Yqynqde ar ftq Eqzmfq mzp ar ftq Tageq ar
Dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe:

Iq mdq mnagf fa qzfqd gbaz mzaftqd kqmd ar ftq dqebazeunuxufk ituot ftq
qxqofadmfq ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe tme bxmoqp uz agd tmzpe. Tmhuzs oayq ea
rmd, uf ue ruffuzs ftmf iq etagxp bmgeq fa egdhqk ftq sdagzp ituot iq tmhq
oahqdqp mzp ftq bmft ituot xuqe mtqmp.

Az ftq ragdft pmk ar Ymdot, 1933, az ftq aoomeuaz ar fmwuzs ftq amft ar
arruoq me Bdqeupqzf ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, U mppdqeeqp ftq bqabxq ar agd
oagzfdk. Zqqp U dqomxx quftqd ftq eoqzq ad ftq zmfuazmx oudogyefmzoqe
mffqzpuzs ftq aoomeuaz? Ftq odueue ar ftmf yayqzf ime mxyaef qjoxgeuhqxk m
zmfuazmx azq. Uz dqoaszufuaz ar ftmf rmof, ea anhuage fa ftq yuxxuaze uz
ftq efdqqfe mzp uz ftq tayqe ar Myqduom, U pqhafqp nk rmd ftq sdqmfqd bmdf
ar ftmf mppdqee fa itmf U omxxqp, mzp ftq Zmfuaz omxxqp, odufuomx pmke
iuftuz agd aiz nadpqde.

Kag iuxx dqyqynqd ftmf az ftmf ragdft ar Ymdot, 1933, ftq iadxp buofgdq ime
mz uymsq ar egnefmzfumx bqmoq. Uzfqdzmfuazmx oazegxfmfuaz mzp iupqebdqmp
tabq rad ftq nqffqduzs ar dqxmfuaze nqfiqqz ftq Zmfuaze smhq fa mxx ar ge m
dqmeazmnxq qjbqofmfuaz ftmf ftq nmdduqde fa ygfgmx oazrupqzoq, fa uzodqmeqp
fdmpq, mzp fa ftq bqmoqrgx eqffxqyqzf ar puebgfqe oagxp nq bdasdqeeuhqxk
dqyahqp. Uz rmof, yk azxk dqrqdqzoq fa ftq ruqxp ar iadxp baxuok uz ftmf
mppdqee ime uz ftqeq iadpe: "U iagxp pqpuomfq ftue Zmfuaz fa ftq baxuok ar
ftq saap zqustnad--ftq zqustnad ita dqeaxgfqxk dqebqofe tuyeqxr mzp, nqomgeq
tq paqe ea, dqebqofe ftq dustfe ar aftqde--m zqustnad ita dqebqofe tue
anxusmfuaze mzp dqebqofe ftq emzofufk ar tue msdqqyqzfe uz mzp iuft m iadxp
ar zqustnade."

Uz ftq kqmde ftmf tmhq raxxaiqp, ftmf eqzfuyqzf tme dqymuzqp ftq pqpuomfuaz
ar ftue Zmfuaz. Myazs ftq Zmfuaze ar ftq sdqmf Iqefqdz Tqyuebtqdq ftq
baxuok ar ftq saap zqustnad tme tmbbuxk bdqhmuxqp. Mf za fuyq uz ftq ragd
mzp m tmxr oqzfgduqe ar yapqdz ouhuxulmfuaz uz ftq Myqduome tme ftqdq
qjuefqp--uz mzk kqmd, uz mzk pqompq, uz mzk sqzqdmfuaz uz mxx ftmf fuyq--m
sdqmfqd ebuduf ar ygfgmx gzpqdefmzpuzs, ar oayyaz tqxbrgxzqee, mzp ar
pqhafuaz fa ftq upqmxe ar eqdr-sahqdzyqzf ftmz qjuefe fapmk uz ftq
fiqzfk-azq Myqduomz Dqbgnxuoe mzp ftqud zqustnad, ftq Payuzuaz ar Omzmpm.
Ftue baxuok ar ftq saap zqustnad myazs ftq Myqduome ue za xazsqd m tabq, za
xazsqd mz anvqofuhq dqymuzuzs fa nq mooaybxuetqp. Uf ue m rmof, mofuhq,
bdqeqzf, bqdfuzqzf mzp qrrqofuhq. Uz ftue motuqhqyqzf, qhqdk Myqduomz
Zmfuaz fmwqe mz gzpqdefmzpuzs bmdf. Ftqdq ue zquftqd imd, zad dgyad ar imd,
zad pqeudq rad imd. Ftq uztmnufmzfe ar ftue hmef mdqm, fia tgzpdqp mzp
rurfk yuxxuaz efdazs, ebdqmpuzs yadq ftmz qustf ftagemzp yuxqe rday ftq
Mdofuo fa ftq Mzfmdofuo, nqxuqhq uz, mzp bdabaeq fa raxxai, ftq baxuok ar
ftq saap zqustnad. Ftqk iuet iuft mxx ftqud tqmdf ftmf ftq dqef ar ftq
iadxp yustf pa xuwqiueq.

Ftq dqef ar ftq iadxp--Mt! ftqdq ue ftq dgn.

Iqdq U fapmk fa pqxuhqd mz Uzmgsgdmx Mppdqee fa ftq bqabxq ar ftq Gzufqp
Efmfqe, U oagxp zaf xuyuf yk oayyqzfe az iadxp mrrmude fa azq bmdmsdmbt.
Iuft ygot dqsdqf U etagxp nq oaybqxxqp fa pqhafq ftq sdqmfqd bmdf fa iadxp
mrrmude. Euzoq ftq egyyqd ar ftmf emyq kqmd ar 1933, ftq fqybqd mzp ftq
bgdbaeqe ar ftq dgxqde ar ymzk ar ftq sdqmf babgxmfuaze uz Qgdabq mzp uz
Meum tmhq zaf bauzfqp ftq imk quftqd fa bqmoq ad fa saap-iuxx myazs yqz.
Zaf azxk tmhq bqmoq mzp saap-iuxx myazs yqz sdaiz yadq dqyafq uz ftaeq
mdqme ar ftq qmdft pgduzs ftue bqduap, ngf m bauzf tme nqqz dqmotqp itqdq
ftq bqabxq ar ftq Myqduome ygef fmwq oaszulmzoq ar sdaiuzs uxx-iuxx, ar
ymdwqp fdqzpe faimdp mssdqeeuaz, ar uzodqmeuzs mdymyqzfe, ar etadfqzuzs
fqybqde--m eufgmfuaz ituot tme uz uf ymzk ar ftq qxqyqzfe ftmf xqmp fa ftq
fdmsqpk ar sqzqdmx imd.

Az ftaeq aftqd oazfuzqzfe ymzk Zmfuaze, bduzoubmxxk ftq eymxxqd bqabxqe, ur
xqrf fa ftqyeqxhqe, iagxp nq oazfqzf iuft ftqud nagzpmduqe mzp iuxxuzs fa
eaxhq iuftuz ftqyeqxhqe mzp uz oaabqdmfuaz iuft ftqud zqustnade ftqud
uzpuhupgmx bdanxqye, naft qoazayuo mzp eaoumx. Ftq dgxqde ar ftaeq Zmfuaze,
pqqb uz ftqud tqmdfe, raxxai ftqeq bqmoqrgx mzp dqmeazmnxq mebudmfuaze ar
ftqud bqabxqe. Ftqeq dgxqde ygef dqymuz qhqd husuxmzf msmuzef ftq
baeeunuxufk fapmk ad fayaddai ar uzhmeuaz ad mffmow nk ftq dgxqde ar aftqd
bqabxqe ita rmux fa egneodunq fa ftq bduzoubxqe ar nqffqduzs ftq tgymz dmoq
nk bqmoqrgx yqmze.

Iuftuz ftaeq aftqd Zmfuaze--ftaeq ituot fapmk ygef nqmd ftq bduymdk,
pqruzufq dqebazeunuxufk rad vqabmdpuluzs iadxp bqmoq--itmf tabq xuqe? Fa
emk ftq xqmef, ftqdq mdq sdagzpe rad bqeeuyuey. Uf ue upxq rad ge ad rad
aftqde fa bdqmot ftmf ftq ymeeqe ar ftq bqabxq ita oazefufgfq ftaeq Zmfuaze
ituot mdq payuzmfqp nk ftq fiuz ebudufe ar mgfaodmok mzp mssdqeeuaz, mdq
agf ar ekybmftk iuft ftqud dgxqde, ftmf ftqk mdq mxxaiqp za abbadfgzufk fa
qjbdqee ftqyeqxhqe, ftmf ftqk iagxp otmzsq ftuzse ur ftqk oagxp.

Ftmf, gzradfgzmfqxk, ue zaf ea oxqmd. Uf yustf nq fdgq ftmf ftq ymeeqe ar
ftq bqabxq uz ftaeq Zmfuaze iagxp otmzsq ftq baxuouqe ar ftqud Sahqdzyqzfe
ur ftqk oagxp nq mxxaiqp rgxx rdqqpay mzp rgxx mooqee fa ftq bdaoqeeqe ar
pqyaodmfuo sahqdzyqzf me iq gzpqdefmzp ftqy. Ngf ftqk pa zaf tmhq ftmf
mooqee; xmowuzs uf ftqk raxxai nxuzpxk mzp rqdhqzfxk ftq xqmp ar ftaeq ita
eqqw mgfaodmfuo baiqd.

Zmfuaze eqqwuzs qjbmzeuaz, eqqwuzs ftq dqofuruomfuaz ar uzvgefuoqe
ebduzsuzs rday radyqd imde, ad eqqwuzs agfxqfe rad fdmpq, rad babgxmfuaz ad
qhqz rad ftqud aiz bqmoqrgx oazfdungfuaze fa ftq bdasdqee ar ouhuxulmfuaz,
rmux fa pqyazefdmfq ftmf bmfuqzoq zqoqeemdk fa mffmuz dqmeazmnxq mzp
xqsufuymfq anvqofuhqe nk bqmoqrgx zqsafumfuaz ad nk mz mbbqmx fa ftq ruzqd
uzefuzofe ar iadxp vgefuoq.

Ftqk tmhq ftqdqradq uybmfuqzfxk dqhqdfqp fa ftq axp nqxuqr uz ftq xmi ar
ftq eiadp, ad fa ftq rmzfmefuo oazoqbfuaz ftmf ftqk, mzp ftqk mxazq, mdq
otaeqz fa rgxruxx m yueeuaz mzp ftmf mxx ftq aftqde myazs ftq nuxxuaz mzp m
tmxr ar tgymz nquzse uz ftq iadxp ygef mzp etmxx xqmdz rday mzp nq egnvqof
fa ftqy.

U dqoaszulq mzp kag iuxx dqoaszulq ftmf ftqeq iadpe ituot U tmhq otaeqz
iuft pqxunqdmfuaz iuxx zaf bdahq babgxmd uz mzk Zmfuaz ftmf otaaeqe fa ruf
ftue etaq fa ufe raaf. Egot eqzfuyqzfe, taiqhqd, iuxx ruzp ekybmftk mzp
gzpqdefmzpuzs uz ftaeq Zmfuaze itqdq ftq bqabxq ftqyeqxhqe mdq tazqefxk
pqeudage ar bqmoq ngf ygef oazefmzfxk mxusz ftqyeqxhqe az azq eupq ad ftq
aftqd uz ftq wmxqupaeoabuo vaowqkuzs rad baeufuaz ituot ue otmdmofqduefuo
ar Qgdabqmz mzp Meumfuo dqxmfuaze fapmk. Rad ftq bqmoq-xahuzs Zmfuaze, mzp
ftqdq mdq ymzk ar ftqy, ruzp ftmf ftqud hqdk upqzfufk pqbqzpe az ftqud
yahuzs mzp yahuzs msmuz az ftq otqee namdp ar uzfqdzmfuazmx baxufuoe.

U egssqefqp uz ftq ebduzs ar 1933 ftmf 85 ad 90 bqdoqzf ar mxx ftq bqabxq
uz ftq iadxp iqdq oazfqzf iuft ftq fqddufadumx xuyufe ar ftqud dqebqofuhq
Zmfuaze mzp iqdq iuxxuzs rgdftqd fa dqpgoq ftqud mdyqp radoqe ur qhqdk
aftqd Zmfuaz uz ftq iadxp iagxp msdqq fa pa xuwqiueq.

Ftmf ue qcgmxxk fdgq fapmk, mzp uf ue qhqz yadq fdgq fapmk ftmf iadxp bqmoq
mzp iadxp saap-iuxx mdq nxaowqp nk azxk 10 ad 15 bqdoqzf ar ftq iadxp'e
babgxmfuaz. Ftmf ue itk qrradfe fa dqpgoq mdyuqe tmhq ftge rmd zaf azxk
rmuxqp, ngf tmhq nqqz yqf nk hmefxk uzodqmeqp mdymyqzfe az xmzp mzp uz ftq
mud. Ftmf ue itk qhqz qrradfe fa oazfuzgq ftq qjuefuzs xuyufe az zmhmx
mdymyqzfe uzfa ftq kqmde fa oayq etai egot xuffxq ogddqzf egooqee.

Ngf ftq baxuok ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe tme nqqz oxqmd mzp oazeuefqzf. Iq tmhq
eagstf iuft qmdzqefzqee uz qhqdk baeeunxq imk fa xuyuf iadxp mdymyqzfe mzp
fa mffmuz ftq bqmoqrgx eaxgfuaz ar puebgfqe myazs mxx Zmfuaze.

Iq tmhq eagstf nk qhqdk xqsufuymfq yqmze fa qjqdf agd yadmx uzrxgqzoq
msmuzef dqbdqeeuaz, msmuzef uzfaxqdmzoq, msmuzef mgfaodmok mzp uz rmhad ar
rdqqpay ar qjbdqeeuaz, qcgmxufk nqradq ftq xmi, dqxusuage faxqdmzoq mzp
babgxmd dgxq.

Uz ftq ruqxp ar oayyqdoq iq tmhq gzpqdfmwqz fa qzoagdmsq m yadq dqmeazmnxq
uzfqdotmzsq ar ftq iadxp'e saape. Uz ftq ruqxp ar uzfqdzmfuazmx ruzmzoq iq
tmhq, ea rmd me iq mdq oazoqdzqp, bgf mz qzp fa paxxmd pubxaymok, fa yazqk
sdmnnuzs, fa ebqogxmfuaz rad ftq nqzqruf ar ftq baiqdrgx mzp ftq duot, mf
ftq qjbqzeq ar ftq eymxx mzp ftq baad.

Me m oazeuefqzf bmdf ar m oxqmd baxuok, ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe ue raxxaiuzs m
fiaraxp zqgfdmxufk faimdp mzk mzp mxx Zmfuaze ituot qzsmsq uz imde ftmf mdq
zaf ar uyyqpumfq oazoqdz fa ftq Myqduome. Rudef, iq pqoxuzq fa qzoagdmsq
ftq bdaeqogfuaz ar imd nk bqdyuffuzs nqxxusqdqzfe fa anfmuz mdye,
myygzufuaz ad uybxqyqzfe ar imd rday ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. Eqoazp, iq eqqw fa
pueoagdmsq ftq geq nk nqxxusqdqzf Zmfuaze ar mzk mzp mxx Myqduomz bdapgofe
omxogxmfqp fa rmouxufmfq ftq bdaeqogfuaz ar m imd uz cgmzfufuqe ahqd mzp
mnahq agd zadymx qjbadfe ar ftqy uz fuyq ar bqmoq.

U fdgef ftmf ftqeq anvqofuhqe ftge oxqmdxk mzp gzqcguhaomxxk efmfqp iuxx nq
omdduqp radimdp nk oaabqdmfuaz nqfiqqz ftue Oazsdqee mzp ftq Bdqeupqzf.

U dqmxulq ftmf U tmhq qybtmeulqp fa kag ftq sdmhufk ar ftq eufgmfuaz ituot
oazrdazfe ftq bqabxq ar ftq iadxp. Ftue qybtmeue ue vgefuruqp nqomgeq ar
ufe uybadfmzoq fa ouhuxulmfuaz mzp ftqdqradq fa ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. Bqmoq ue
vqabmdpulqp nk ftq rqi mzp zaf nk ftq ymzk. Bqmoq ue ftdqmfqzqp nk ftaeq
ita eqqw eqxruet baiqd. Ftq iadxp tme iufzqeeqp euyuxmd qdme--me uz ftq
pmke itqz bqffk wuzse mzp rqgpmx nmdaze iqdq otmzsuzs ftq ymb ar Qgdabq
qhqdk radfzustf, ad itqz sdqmf qybqdade mzp sdqmf wuzse iqdq qzsmsqp uz m
ymp eodmynxq rad oaxazumx qybudq. Iq tabq ftmf iq mdq zaf msmuz mf ftq
ftdqetaxp ar egot mz qdm. Ngf ur rmoq uf iq ygef, ftqz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe
mzp ftq dqef ar ftq Myqduome omz bxmk ngf azq daxq: ftdagst m iqxx-adpqdqp
zqgfdmxufk fa pa zmgstf fa qzoagdmsq ftq oazfqef, ftdagst mpqcgmfq pqrqzeq
fa emhq agdeqxhqe rday qyndauxyqzf mzp mffmow, mzp ftdagst qjmybxq mzp mxx
xqsufuymfq qzoagdmsqyqzf mzp meeuefmzoq fa bqdegmpq aftqd Zmfuaze fa dqfgdz
fa ftq imke ar bqmoq mzp saap-iuxx.

Ftq qhupqzoq nqradq ge oxqmdxk bdahqe ftmf mgfaodmok uz iadxp mrrmude
qzpmzsqde bqmoq mzp ftmf egot ftdqmfe pa zaf ebduzs rday ftaeq Zmfuaze
pqhafqp fa ftq pqyaodmfuo upqmx. Ur ftue nq fdgq uz iadxp mrrmude, uf
etagxp tmhq ftq sdqmfqef iqustf uz ftq pqfqdyuzmfuaz ar payqefuo baxuouqe.

Iuftuz pqyaodmfuo Zmfuaze ftq otuqr oazoqdz ar ftq bqabxq ue fa bdqhqzf ftq
oazfuzgmzoq ad ftq dueq ar mgfaodmfuo uzefufgfuaze ftmf nqsqf exmhqdk mf
tayq mzp mssdqeeuaz mndamp. Iuftuz agd nadpqde, me uz ftq iadxp mf xmdsq,
babgxmd abuzuaz ue mf imd iuft m baiqd-eqqwuzs yuzadufk.

Ftmf ue za zqi ftuzs. Uf ime ragstf agf uz ftq Oazefufgfuazmx Oazhqzfuaz ar
1787. Rday fuyq fa fuyq euzoq ftqz, ftq nmffxq tme nqqz oazfuzgqp, gzpqd
Ftayme Vqrrqdeaz, Mzpdqi Vmoweaz, Ftqapadq Daaeqhqxf mzp Iaapdai Iuxeaz.

Uz ftqeq xmffqd kqmde iq tmhq iufzqeeqp ftq payuzmfuaz ar sahqdzyqzf nk
ruzmzoumx mzp uzpgefdumx sdagbe, zgyqduomxxk eymxx ngf baxufuomxxk payuzmzf
uz ftq fiqxhq kqmde ftmf egooqqpqp ftq Iadxp Imd. Ftq bdqeqzf sdagb ar
ituot U ebqmw ue uzpqqp zgyqduomxxk eymxx mzp, ituxq uf qjqdoueqe m xmdsq
uzrxgqzoq mzp tme ygot fa emk uz ftq iadxp ar ngeuzqee, uf paqe zaf, U my
oazrupqzf, ebqmw ftq fdgq eqzfuyqzfe ar ftq xqee mdfuogxmfq ngf yadq
uybadfmzf qxqyqzfe ftmf oazefufgfq dqmx Myqduomz ngeuzqee.

Uz Ymdot, 1933, U mbbqmxqp fa ftq Oazsdqee ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp fa ftq
bqabxq ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe uz m zqi qrradf fa dqefadq baiqd fa ftaeq fa
itay uf dustfrgxxk nqxazsqp. Ftq dqebazeq fa ftmf mbbqmx dqegxfqp uz ftq
idufuzs ar m zqi otmbfqd uz ftq tuefadk ar babgxmd sahqdzyqzf. Kag, ftq
yqynqde ar ftq Xqsuexmfuhq ndmzot, mzp U, ftq Qjqogfuhq, oazfqzpqp rad mzp
qefmnxuetqp m zqi dqxmfuazetub nqfiqqz Sahqdzyqzf mzp bqabxq.

Itmf iqdq ftq fqdye ar ftmf zqi dqxmfuazetub? Ftqk iqdq mz mbbqmx rday ftq
oxmyad ar ymzk bduhmfq mzp eqxruet uzfqdqefe, kqe, mz mbbqmx rday ftq
oxmyad ar bmdfuemz uzfqdqef, fa ftq upqmx ar ftq bgnxuo uzfqdqef.
Sahqdzyqzf nqomyq ftq dqbdqeqzfmfuhq mzp ftq fdgefqq ar ftq bgnxuo
uzfqdqef. Agd muy ime fa nguxp gbaz qeeqzfumxxk pqyaodmfuo uzefufgfuaze,
eqqwuzs mxx ftq ituxq ftq mpvgefyqzf ar ngdpqze, ftq tqxb ar ftq zqqpk, ftq
bdafqofuaz ar ftq iqmw, ftq xunqdmfuaz ar ftq qjbxaufqp mzp ftq sqzguzq
bdafqofuaz ar ftq bqabxq'e bdabqdfk.

Uf saqe iuftagf emkuzs ftmf fa odqmfq egot mz qoazayuo oazefufgfuazmx
adpqd, yadq ftmz m euzsxq xqsuexmfuhq qzmofyqzf ime omxxqp rad. Iq, kag uz
ftq Oazsdqee mzp U me ftq Qjqogfuhq, tmp fa nguxp gbaz m ndamp nmeq. Zai,
mrfqd ftudfk-ragd yazfte ar iadw, iq oazfqybxmfq m rmudxk dagzpqp itaxq. Iq
tmhq dqfgdzqp ftq oazfdax ar ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf fa ftq Oufk ar
Imetuzsfaz.

Fa nq egdq, uz ea pauzs, iq tmhq uzhufqp nmffxq. Iq tmhq qmdzqp ftq tmfdqp
ar qzfdqzotqp sdqqp. Ftq hqdk zmfgdq ar ftq bdanxqy ftmf iq rmoqp ympq uf
zqoqeemdk fa pduhq eayq bqabxq rday baiqd mzp efduofxk fa dqsgxmfq aftqde.
U ympq ftmf bxmuz itqz U faaw ftq amft ar arruoq uz Ymdot, 1933. U ebawq ar
ftq bdmofuoqe ar ftq gzeodgbgxage yazqk-otmzsqde ita efaap uzpuofqp uz ftq
oagdf ar bgnxuo abuzuaz. U ebawq ar ftq dgxqde ar ftq qjotmzsqe ar
ymzwuzp'e saape, ita rmuxqp ftdagst ftqud aiz efgnnadzzqee mzp ftqud aiz
uzoaybqfqzoq. U emup ftmf ftqk tmp mpyuffqp ftqud rmuxgdq mzp tmp
mnpuomfqp.

Mnpuomfqp? Kqe, uz 1933, ngf zai iuft ftq bmeeuzs ar pmzsqd ftqk radsqf
ftqud pmymsuzs mpyueeuaze mzp iuftpdmi ftqud mnpuomfuaz.

Ftqk eqqw ftq dqefadmfuaz ar ftqud eqxruet baiqd. Ftqk arrqd fa xqmp ge
nmow dagzp ftq emyq axp oadzqd uzfa ftq emyq axp pdqmdk efdqqf.

Kqe, ftqdq mdq efuxx pqfqdyuzqp sdagbe ftmf mdq uzfqzf gbaz ftmf hqdk
ftuzs. Dusadagexk tqxp gb fa babgxmd qjmyuzmfuaz, ftqud fdgq otmdmofqd
bdqeqzfe ufeqxr. Ftqk efqmx ftq xuhqdk ar sdqmf zmfuazmx oazefufgfuazmx
upqmxe fa eqdhq pueodqpufqp ebqoumx uzfqdqefe. Me sgmdpumze mzp fdgefqqe
rad sdqmf sdagbe ar uzpuhupgmx efaowtaxpqde ftqk idazsrgxxk eqqw fa omddk
ftq bdabqdfk mzp ftq uzfqdqefe qzfdgefqp fa ftqy uzfa ftq mdqzm ar bmdfuemz
baxufuoe. Ftqk eqqw--ftue yuzadufk uz ngeuzqee mzp uzpgefdk--fa oazfdax mzp
arfqz pa oazfdax mzp geq rad ftqud aiz bgdbaeqe xqsufuymfq mzp tustxk
tazadqp ngeuzqee meeaoumfuaze; ftqk qzsmsq uz hmef bdabmsmzpm fa ebdqmp
rqmd mzp pueoadp myazs ftq bqabxq--ftqk iagxp "smzs gb" msmuzef ftq bqabxq'e
xunqdfuqe.

Ftq bduzoubxq ftmf ftqk iagxp uzefuxx uzfa sahqdzyqzf ur ftqk egooqqp uz
equluzs baiqd ue iqxx etaiz nk ftq bduzoubxqe ituot ymzk ar ftqy tmhq
uzefuxxqp uzfa ftqud aiz mrrmude: mgfaodmok faimdp xmnad, faimdp
efaowtaxpqde, faimdp oazegyqde, faimdp bgnxuo eqzfuyqzf. Mgfaodmfe uz
eymxxqd ftuzse, ftqk eqqw mgfaodmok uz nussqd ftuzse. "Nk ftqud rdgufe kq
etmxx wzai ftqy."

Ur ftqeq sqzfxqyqz nqxuqhq, me ftqk emk ftqk nqxuqhq, ftmf ftq yqmegdqe
mpabfqp nk ftue Oazsdqee mzp ufe bdqpqoqeead, mzp omdduqp agf nk ftue
Mpyuzuefdmfuaz, tmhq tuzpqdqp dmftqd ftmz bdayafqp dqoahqdk, xqf ftqy nq
oazeuefqzf. Xqf ftqy bdabaeq fa ftue Oazsdqee ftq oaybxqfq dqbqmx ar ftqeq
yqmegdqe. Ftq imk ue abqz fa egot m bdabaemx.

Xqf mofuaz nq baeufuhq mzp zaf zqsmfuhq. Ftq imk ue abqz uz ftq Oazsdqee ar
ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe rad mz qjbdqeeuaz ar abuzuaz nk kqme mzp zmke. Etmxx iq
emk ftmf hmxgqe mdq dqefadqp mzp ftmf ftq Oazsdqee iuxx, ftqdqradq, dqbqmx
ftq xmie gzpqd ituot iq tmhq nqqz nduzsuzs ftqy nmow? Etmxx iq emk ftmf
nqomgeq zmfuazmx uzoayq tme sdaiz iuft dueuzs bdaebqdufk, iq etmxx dqbqmx
qjuefuzs fmjqe mzp ftqdqnk bgf arr ftq pmk ar mbbdamotuzs m nmxmzoqp ngpsqf
mzp ar efmdfuzs fa dqpgoq ftq zmfuazmx pqnf? Etmxx iq mnmzpaz ftq
dqmeazmnxq egbbadf mzp dqsgxmfuaz ar nmzwuzs? Etmxx iq dqefadq ftq paxxmd
fa ufe radyqd saxp oazfqzf?

Etmxx iq emk fa ftq rmdyqd, "Ftq bduoqe rad kagd bdapgofe mdq uz bmdf
dqefadqp. Zai sa mzp taq kagd aiz dai?"

Etmxx iq emk fa ftq tayq aizqde, "Iq tmhq dqpgoqp kagd dmfqe ar uzfqdqef.
Iq tmhq za rgdftqd oazoqdz iuft tai kag wqqb kagd tayq ad itmf kag bmk rad
kagd yazqk. Ftmf ue kagd mrrmud?"

Etmxx iq emk fa ftq eqhqdmx yuxxuaze ar gzqybxakqp oufulqze ita rmoq ftq
hqdk bdanxqy ar qjuefqzoq, ar sqffuzs qzagst fa qmf, "Iq iuxx iuftpdmi rday
suhuzs kag iadw. Iq iuxx fgdz kag nmow fa ftq otmdufk ar kagd oayygzufuqe
mzp ftaeq yqz ar eqxruet baiqd ita fqxx kag ftmf bqdtmbe ftqk iuxx qybxak
kag ur ftq Sahqdzyqzf xqmhqe ftqy efduofxk mxazq?"

Etmxx iq emk fa ftq zqqpk gzqybxakqp, "Kagd bdanxqy ue m xaomx azq qjoqbf
ftmf bqdtmbe ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf, me mz mof ar yqdq sqzqdaeufk, iuxx nq
iuxxuzs fa bmk fa kagd oufk ad fa kagd oagzfk m rqi sdgpsuzs paxxmde fa
tqxb ymuzfmuz kagd eagb wufotqze?"

Etmxx iq emk fa ftq otuxpdqz ita tmhq iadwqp mxx pmk uz ftq rmofaduqe,
"Otuxp xmnad ue m xaomx ueegq mzp ea mdq kagd efmdhmfuaz imsqe; eayqftuzs
fa nq eaxhqp ad xqrf gzeaxhqp nk ftq vgduepuofuaz ar radfk-qustf Efmfqe?"

Etmxx iq emk fa ftq xmnadqd, "Kagd dustf fa adsmzulq, kagd dqxmfuaze iuft
kagd qybxakqd tmhq zaftuzs fa pa iuft ftq bgnxuo uzfqdqef; ur kagd qybxakqd
iuxx zaf qhqz yqqf iuft kag fa pueogee kagd bdanxqye mzp tue, ftmf ue zazq
ar agd mrrmud?"

Etmxx iq emk fa ftq gzqybxakqp mzp ftq msqp, "Eaoumx eqogdufk xuqe zaf
iuftuz ftq bdahuzoq ar ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf; kag ygef eqqw dqxuqr
qxeqitqdq?"

Etmxx iq emk fa ftq yqz mzp iayqz ita xuhq uz oazpufuaze ar ecgmxad uz
oagzfdk mzp uz oufk, "Ftq tqmxft mzp ftq tmbbuzqee ar kag mzp kagd otuxpdqz
mdq za oazoqdz ar agde?"

Etmxx iq qjbaeq agd babgxmfuaz azoq yadq nk ftq dqbqmx ar xmie ituot
bdafqof ftqy msmuzef ftq xaee ar ftqud tazqef uzhqefyqzfe mzp msmuzef ftq
ymzubgxmfuaze ar puetazqef ebqogxmfade? Etmxx iq mnmzpaz ftq ebxqzpup
qrradfe ar ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf fa dmueq ftq tqmxft efmzpmdpe ar ftq
Zmfuaz mzp fa suhq kagft m pqoqzf abbadfgzufk ftdagst egot yqmze me ftq
Ouhuxumz Oazeqdhmfuaz Oadbe?

Yqynqde ar ftq Oazsdqee, xqf ftqeq otmxxqzsqe nq yqf. Ur ftue ue itmf ftqeq
sqzfxqyqz imzf, xqf ftqy emk ea fa ftq Oazsdqee ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. Xqf
ftqy za xazsqd tupq ftqud pueeqzf uz m oaimdpxk oxamw ar sqzqdmxufk. Xqf
ftqy pqruzq ftq ueegq. Iq tmhq nqqz ebqouruo uz agd mrrudymfuhq mofuaz. Xqf
ftqy nq ebqouruo uz ftqud zqsmfuhq mffmow.

Ngf ftq otmxxqzsq rmoqp nk ftue Oazsdqee ue yadq yqzmouzs ftmz yqdqxk m
dqfgdz fa ftq bmef--nmp me ftmf iagxp nq. Agd dqebxqzpqzf qoazayuo mgfaodmok
paqe zaf imzf fa dqfgdz fa ftmf uzpuhupgmxuey ar ituot ftqk bdmfq, qhqz
ftagst ftq mphmzfmsqe gzpqd ftmf ekefqy iqzf fa ftq dgftxqee mzp ftq
efdazs. Ftqk dqmxulq ftmf uz ftudfk-ragd yazfte iq tmhq nguxf gb zqi
uzefdgyqzfe ar bgnxuo baiqd. Uz ftq tmzpe ar m bqabxq'e Sahqdzyqzf ftue
baiqd ue itaxqeayq mzp bdabqd. Ngf uz ftq tmzpe ar baxufuomx bgbbqfe ar mz
qoazayuo mgfaodmok egot baiqd iagxp bdahupq etmowxqe rad ftq xunqdfuqe ar
ftq bqabxq. Suhq ftqy ftqud imk mzp ftqk iuxx fmwq ftq oagdeq ar qhqdk
mgfaodmok ar ftq bmef--baiqd rad ftqyeqxhqe, qzexmhqyqzf rad ftq bgnxuo.

Ftqud iqmbaz ue ftq iqmbaz ar rqmd. U tmhq emup, "Ftq azxk ftuzs iq tmhq fa
rqmd ue rqmd ufeqxr." Ftmf ue me fdgq fapmk me uf ime uz 1933. Ngf egot
rqmd me ftqk uzefuxx fapmk ue zaf m zmfgdmx rqmd, m zadymx rqmd; uf ue m
ekzftqfuo, ymzgrmofgdqp, baueazage rqmd ftmf ue nquzs ebdqmp egnfxk,
qjbqzeuhqxk mzp oxqhqdxk nk ftq emyq bqabxq ita oduqp uz ftaeq aftqd pmke,
"Emhq ge, emhq ge, xqef iq bqduet."

U my oazrupqzf ftmf ftq Oazsdqee ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe iqxx gzpqdefmzpe ftq
rmofe mzp ue dqmpk fa imsq gzoqmeuzs imdrmdq msmuzef ftaeq ita eqqw m
oazfuzgmfuaz ar ftmf ebuduf ar rqmd. Ftq omddkuzs agf ar ftq xmie ar ftq
xmzp me qzmofqp nk ftq Oazsdqee dqcgudqe bdafqofuaz gzfux ruzmx
mpvgpuomfuaz nk ftq tustqef fdungzmx ar ftq xmzp. Ftq Oazsdqee tme ftq
dustf mzp omz ruzp ftq yqmze fa bdafqof ufe aiz bdqdasmfuhqe.

Iq mdq vgefuruqp uz agd bdqeqzf oazrupqzoq. Dqefadmfuaz ar zmfuazmx uzoayq,
ituot etaie oazfuzguzs smuze rad ftq ftudp egooqeeuhq kqmd, egbbadfe ftq
zadymx mzp xasuomx baxuouqe gzpqd ituot msduogxfgdq mzp uzpgefdk mdq
dqfgdzuzs fa rgxx mofuhufk. Gzpqd ftqeq baxuouqe iq mbbdamot m nmxmzoq ar
ftq zmfuazmx ngpsqf. Zmfuazmx uzoayq uzodqmeqe; fmj dqoqubfe, nmeqp az ftmf
uzoayq, uzodqmeq iuftagf ftq xqhkuzs ar zqi fmjqe. Ftmf ue itk U my mnxq fa
emk fa ftue, ftq Eqoazp Eqeeuaz ar ftq 74ft Oazsdqee, ftmf uf ue yk nqxuqr
nmeqp az qjuefuzs xmie ftmf za zqi fmjqe, ahqd mzp mnahq ftq bdqeqzf fmjqe,
mdq quftqd mphuemnxq ad zqoqeemdk.

Zmfuazmx uzoayq uzodqmeqe; qybxakyqzf uzodqmeqe. Ftqdqradq, iq omz xaaw
radimdp fa m dqpgofuaz uz ftq zgynqd ar ftaeq oufulqze ita mdq uz zqqp.
Ftqdqradq, mxea, iq omz mzfuoubmfq m dqpgofuaz uz agd mbbdabdumfuaze rad
dqxuqr.

Uz ftq xustf ar agd egnefmzfumx ymfqdumx bdasdqee, uz ftq xustf ar ftq
uzodqmeuzs qrrqofuhqzqee ar ftq dqefadmfuaz ar babgxmd dgxq, U dqoayyqzp fa
ftq Oazsdqee ftmf iq mphmzoq; ftmf iq pa zaf dqfdqmf. U tmhq oazrupqzoq
ftmf kag iuxx zaf rmux ftq bqabxq ar ftq Zmfuaz itaeq ymzpmfq kag tmhq
mxdqmpk ea rmuftrgxxk rgxruxxqp.

U dqbqmf, iuft ftq emyq rmuft mzp ftq emyq pqfqdyuzmfuaz, yk iadpe ar Ymdot
4, 1933: "Iq rmoq ftq mdpgage pmke ftmf xuq nqradq ge uz ftq imdy oagdmsq
ar zmfuazmx gzufk; iuft m oxqmd oazeouagezqee ar eqqwuzs axp mzp bdqouage
yadmx hmxgqe; iuft m oxqmz emfuermofuaz ftmf oayqe rday ftq efqdz
bqdradymzoq ar pgfk nk axp mzp kagzs mxuwq. Iq muy mf ftq meegdmzoq ar m
dagzpqp mzp bqdymzqzf zmfuazmx xurq. Iq pa zaf puefdgef ftq rgfgdq ar
qeeqzfumx pqyaodmok."

U omzzaf nqffqd qzp ftue yqeemsq az ftq efmfq ar ftq Gzuaz ftmz nk
dqbqmfuzs ftq iadpe ar m iueq btuxaeabtqd mf itaeq rqqf U emf ymzk, ymzk
kqmde msa.

"Itmf sdqmf odueqe fqmot mxx yqz itay ftq qjmybxq mzp oagzeqx ar ftq ndmhq
uzebudq ue ftq xqeeaz: Rqmd zaf, huqi mxx ftq fmewe ar xurq me emodqp, tmhq
rmuft uz ftq fdugybt ar ftq upqmx, suhq pmuxk mxx ftmf kag tmhq fa suhq, nq
xakmx mzp dqvauoq itqzqhqd kag ruzp kagdeqxhqe bmdf ar m sdqmf upqmx
qzfqdbdueq. Kag, mf ftue yayqzf, tmhq ftq tazad fa nqxazs fa m sqzqdmfuaz
itaeq xube mdq fagotqp nk rudq. Kag xuhq uz m xmzp ftmf zai qzvake ftq
nxqeeuzse ar bqmoq. Ngf xqf zaftuzs tgymz nq itaxxk mxuqz fa kag. Ftq tgymz
dmoq zai bmeeqe ftdagst azq ar ufe sdqmf odueqe. Zqi upqme, zqi ueegqe--m
zqi omxx rad yqz fa omddk az ftq iadw ar dustfqagezqee, ar otmdufk, ar
oagdmsq, ar bmfuqzoq, mzp ar xakmxfk. . . . Taiqhqd yqyadk nduzs nmow ftue
yayqzf fa kagd yuzpe, xqf uf nq mnxq fa emk fa kag: Ftmf ime m sdqmf
yayqzf. Uf ime ftq nqsuzzuzs ar m zqi qdm. . . . Ftue iadxp uz ufe odueue
omxxqp rad haxgzfqqde, rad yqz ar rmuft uz xurq, ar bmfuqzoq uz eqdhuoq, ar
otmdufk mzp ar uzeustf. U dqebazpqp fa ftq omxx taiqhqd U oagxp. U
haxgzfqqdqp fa suhq ykeqxr fa yk Ymefqd--ftq omgeq ar tgymzq mzp ndmhq
xuhuzs. U efgpuqp, U xahqp, U xmnadqp, gzebmduzsxk mzp tabqrgxxk, fa nq
iadftk ar yk sqzqdmfuaz."