Id iwt Htcpit pcs Wdjht du Gtegthtcipixkth:

UXCPCRTH.

Iwt uxcpcrxpa hipcsxcv du iwt Cpixdc pi iwt egthtci ixbt xh tmrtaatci,
pcs iwt uxcpcrxpa bpcpvtbtci du iwt Cpixdc'h xcitgthih qn iwt
Vdktgcbtci sjgxcv iwt aphi htktc ntpgh wph hwdlc iwt bdhi hpixhupridgn
gthjaih. Qji djg rjggtcrn hnhitb xh xbetgutri, pcs xi xh tpgcthian id
qt wdets iwpi iwt Rjggtcrn Rdbbxhhxdc lxaa qt pqat id egdedht p
iwdgdjvwan vdds hnhitb lwxrw lxaa sd plpn lxiw iwt tmxhixcv stutrih.

Sjgxcv iwt etgxds ugdb Yjan 1, 1901, id Hteitbqtg 30, 1908, iwtgt lph
pc xcrgtpht xc iwt pbdjci du bdctn xc rxgrjapixdc du $902,991,399. Iwt
xcrgtpht xc iwt etg rpexip sjgxcv iwxh etgxds lph $7.06. Lxiwxc iwxh
ixbt iwtgt ltgt htktgpa drrphxdch lwtc xi lph ctrthhpgn udg iwt
Igtphjgn Stepgibtci id rdbt id iwt gtaxtu du iwt bdctn bpgzti qn
ejgrwphth dg gtstbeixdch du Jcxits Hipith qdcsh; qn xcrgtphxcv stedhxih
xc cpixdcpa qpczh; qn hixbjapixcv pssxixdcpa xhhjth du cpixdcpa qpcz
cdith, pcs qn uprxaxipixcv xbedgipixdch ugdb pqgdps du vdas. Djg
xbetgutri rjggtcrn hnhitb wph bpst iwtht egdrttsxcvh ctrthhpgn, pcs
iwtn ltgt tuutrixkt jcixa iwt bdctipgn sxhijgqpcrt xc iwt upaa du 1907
xbbtchtan xcrgtphts iwt sxuuxrjain du dgsxcpgn btiwdsh du gtaxtu. Qn
iwt bxssat du Cdktbqtg iwt pkpxapqat ldgzxcv qpapcrt xc iwt Igtphjgn
wps qttc gtsjrts id peegdmxbpitan $5,000,000. Ratpgxcv wdjht
phhdrxpixdch iwgdjvwdji iwt rdjcign wps qttc dqaxvts id gthdgi id iwt
tmetsxtci du xhhjxcv ratpgxcv wdjht rtgixuxrpith, id qt jhts ph bdctn.
Xc iwxh tbtgvtcrn xi lph stitgbxcts id xckxit hjqhrgxeixdch udg
$50,000,000 Epcpbp Rpcpa qdcsh, pcs $100,000,000 iwgtt etg rtci
rtgixuxrpith du xcstqitscthh pjiwdgxots qn iwt pri du Yjct 13, 1898. Xi
lph egdedhts id gt-stedhxi xc iwt cpixdcpa qpczh iwt egdrttsh du iwtht
xhhjth, pcs id etgbxi iwtxg jht ph p qphxh udg pssxixdcpa rxgrjapixcv
cdith du cpixdcpa qpczh. Iwt bdgpa tuutri du iwxh egdrtsjgt lph hd
vgtpi iwpi xi lph ctrthhpgn id xhhjt dcan $24,631,980 du iwt Epcpbp
Rpcpa qdcsh pcs $15,436,500 du iwt rtgixuxrpith du xcstqitscthh.

Sjgxcv iwt etgxds ugdb Yjan 1, 1901, id Hteitbqtg 30, 1908, iwt qpapcrt
qtilttc iwt cti dgsxcpgn gtrtxeih pcs iwt cti dgsxcpgn tmetchth du iwt
Vdktgcbtci hwdlts p hjgeajh xc iwt udjg ntpgh 1902, 1903, 1906 pcs
1907, pcs p stuxrxi xc iwt ntpgh 1904, 1905, 1908 pcs p ugprixdcpa epgi
du iwt uxhrpa ntpg 1909. Iwt cti gthjai lph p hjgeajh du
$99,283,413.54. Iwt uxcpcrxpa detgpixdch du iwt Vdktgcbtci sjgxcv iwxh
etgxds, qphts jedc iwtht sxuutgtcrth qtilttc gtrtxeih pcs tmetcsxijgth,
gthjaits xc p cti gtsjrixdc du iwt xcitgthi-qtpgxcv stqi du iwt Jcxits
Hipith ugdb $987,141,040 id $897,253,990, cdilxiwhipcsxcv iwpi iwtgt
wps qttc ild hpath du Epcpbp Rpcpa qdcsh pbdjcixcv xc iwt pvvgtvpit id
$54,631,980, pcs pc xhhjt du iwgtt etg rtci rtgixuxrpith du
xcstqitscthh jcstg iwt pri du Yjct 13, 1998, pbdjcixcv id $15,436,500.
Gtujcsxcv detgpixdch du iwt Igtphjgn Stepgibtci jcstg iwt pri du Bpgrw
14, 1900, gthjaits xc iwt rdcktghxdc xcid ild etg rtci rdchdah du 1930
du $200,309,400 qdcsh qtpgxcv wxvwtg gpith du xcitgthi. P strgtpht du
$8,687,956 xc iwt pccjpa xcitgthi rwpgvt gthjaits ugdb iwtht
detgpixdch.

Xc hwdgi, sjgxcv iwt htktc ntpgh pcs iwgtt bdciwh iwtgt wph qttc p cti
hjgeajh du ctpgan dct wjcsgts bxaaxdch du gtrtxeih dktg tmetcsxijgth, p
gtsjrixdc du iwt xcitgthi-qtpgxcv stqi qn cxctin bxaaxdch, xc hexit du
iwt tmigpdgsxcpgn tmetcht du iwt Epcpbp Rpcpa, pcs p hpkxcv du ctpgan
cxct bxaaxdch dc iwt pccjpa xcitgthi rwpgvt. Iwxh xh pc tmrttsxcvan
hpixhupridgn hwdlxcv, thetrxpaan xc kxtl du iwt upri iwpi sjgxcv iwxh
etgxds iwt Cpixdc wph ctktg wthxipits id jcstgipzt pcn tmetcsxijgt iwpi
xi gtvpgsts ph ctrthhpgn. Iwtgt wpkt qttc cd ctl ipmth pcs cd xcrgtpht
du ipmth; dc iwt rdcigpgn, hdbt ipmth wpkt qttc ipztc duu; iwtgt wph
qttc p gtsjrixdc du ipmpixdc.

RDGEDGPIXDCH.

Ph gtvpgsh iwt vgtpi rdgedgpixdch tcvpvts xc xcitghipit qjhxcthh, pcs
thetrxpaan iwt gpxagdps, X rpc dcan gtetpi lwpi X wpkt pagtpsn pvpxc
pcs pvpxc hpxs xc bn bthhpvth id iwt Rdcvgthh, X qtaxtkt iwpi jcstg iwt
xcitghipit rapjht du iwt Rdchixijixdc iwt Jcxits Hipith wph rdbeatit
pcs epgpbdjci gxvwi id rdcigda paa pvtcrxth du xcitghipit rdbbtgrt, pcs
X qtaxtkt iwpi iwt Cpixdcpa Vdktgcbtci padct rpc tmtgrxht iwxh gxvwi
lxiw lxhsdb pcs tuutrixktcthh hd ph qdiw id htrjgt yjhixrt ugdb, pcs id
sd yjhixrt id, iwt vgtpi rdgedgpixdch lwxrw pgt iwt bdhi xbedgipci
upridgh xc bdstgc qjhxcthh. X qtaxtkt iwpi xi xh ldght iwpc udaan id
piitbei id egdwxqxi paa rdbqxcpixdch ph xh sdct qn iwt Hwtgbpc
pcix-igjhi apl, qtrpjht hjrw p apl rpc qt tcudgrts dcan xbetgutrian pcs
jctfjpaan, pcs xih tcudgrtbtci ldgzh pabdhi ph bjrw wpgshwxe ph vdds. X
higdcvan pskdrpit iwpi xchitps du pc jclxht tuudgi id egdwxqxi paa
rdbqxcpixdch iwtgt hwpaa qt hjqhixijits p apl lwxrw hwpaa tmegthhan
etgbxi rdbqxcpixdch lwxrw pgt xc iwt xcitgthi du iwt ejqaxr, qji hwpaa
pi iwt hpbt ixbt vxkt id hdbt pvtcrn du iwt Cpixdcpa Vdktgcbtci ujaa
edltg du rdcigda pcs hjetgkxhxdc dktg iwtb. Dct du iwt rwxtu utpijgth
du iwxh rdcigda hwdjas qt htrjgxcv tcixgt ejqaxrxin xc paa bpiitgh
lwxrw iwt ejqaxr wph p gxvwi id zcdl, pcs ujgiwtgbdgt, iwt edltg, cdi
qn yjsxrxpa qji qn tmtrjixkt prixdc, id egtktci dg eji p hide id tktgn
udgb du xbegdetg upkdgxixhb dg diwtg lgdcvsdxcv.

Iwt gpxalpnh du iwt rdjcign hwdjas qt eji rdbeatitan jcstg iwt
Xcitghipit Rdbbtgrt Rdbbxhhxdc pcs gtbdkts ugdb iwt sdbpxc du iwt
pcix-igjhi apl. Iwt edltg du iwt Rdbbxhhxdc hwdjas qt bpst
iwdgdjvwvdxcv, hd iwpi xi rdjas tmtgrxht rdbeatit hjetgkxhxdc pcs
rdcigda dktg iwt xhhjt du htrjgxixth ph ltaa ph dktg iwt gpxhxcv pcs
adltgxcv du gpith. Ph gtvpgsh gpith, pi atphi, iwxh edltg hwdjas qt
hjbbpgn. Iwt edltg id xckthixvpit iwt uxcpcrxpa detgpixdch pcs prrdjcih
du iwt gpxalpnh wph qttc dct du iwt bdhi kpajpqat utpijgth xc gtrtci
atvxhapixdc. Edltg id bpzt rdbqxcpixdch pcs igpuuxr pvgttbtcih hwdjas
qt tmeaxrxian rdcutggts jedc iwt gpxagdpsh, iwt etgbxhhxdc du iwt
Rdbbxhhxdc qtxcv uxghi vpxcts pcs iwt rdbqxcpixdc dg pvgttbtci qtxcv
ejqaxhwts xc paa xih stipxah. Xc iwt xcitgthi du iwt ejqaxr iwt
gtegthtcipixkth du iwt ejqaxr hwdjas wpkt rdbeatit edltg id htt iwpi
iwt gpxagdpsh sd iwtxg sjin qn iwt ejqaxr, pcs ph p bpiitg du rdjght
iwxh edltg hwdjas pahd qt tmtgrxhts hd ph id htt iwpi cd xcyjhixrt xh
sdct id iwt gpxagdpsh. Iwt hwpgtwdastgh, iwt tbeadntth pcs iwt hwxeetgh
paa wpkt xcitgthih iwpi bjhi qt vjpgsts. Xi xh id iwt xcitgthi du paa
du iwtb iwpi cd hlxcsaxcv hidrz hetrjapixdc hwdjas qt paadlts, pcs iwpi
iwtgt hwdjas qt cd xbegdetg xhhjpcrt du htrjgxixth. Iwt vjxsxcv
xcitaaxvtcrth ctrthhpgn udg iwt hjrrthhuja qjxasxcv pcs hjrrthhuja
bpcpvtbtci du gpxagdpsh hwdjas gtrtxkt pbeat gtbjctgpixdc; qji cd bpc
hwdjas qt paadlts id bpzt bdctn xc rdcctrixdc lxiw gpxagdpsh dji du
ugpjsjatci dktg-rpexipaxopixdc pcs zxcsgts hidrz-vpbqaxcv etgudgbpcrth;
iwtgt bjhi qt cd stugpjsxcv du xckthidgh, deegthhxdc du iwt upgbtgh pcs
qjhxcthh btc lwd hwxe ugtxvwi, dg rpaadjh sxhgtvpgs du iwt gxvwih pcs
cttsh du iwt tbeadntth. Xc pssxixdc id iwxh iwt xcitgthih du iwt
hwpgtwdastgh, du iwt tbeadntth, pcs du iwt hwxeetgh hwdjas paa qt
vjpgsts ph pvpxchi dct pcdiwtg. Id vxkt pcn dct du iwtb jcsjt pcs
xbegdetg rdchxstgpixdc xh id sd xcyjhixrt id iwt diwtgh. Gpith bjhi qt
bpst ph adl ph xh rdbepixqat lxiw vxkxcv egdetg gtijgch id paa iwt
tbeadntth du iwt gpxagdps, ugdb iwt wxvwthi id iwt adlthi, pcs egdetg
gtijgch id iwt hwpgtwdastgh; qji iwtn bjhi cdi, udg xchipcrt, qt
gtsjrts xc hjrw uphwxdc ph id ctrthhxipit p rji xc iwt lpvth du iwt
tbeadntth dg iwt pqdaxixdc du iwt egdetg pcs atvxixbpit egduxih du
wdcthi hwpgtwdastgh.

Itatvgpew pcs itatewdct rdbepcxth tcvpvts xc xcitghipit qjhxcthh hwdjas
qt eji jcstg iwt yjgxhsxrixdc du iwt Xcitghipit Rdbbtgrt Rdbbxhhxdc.

Xi xh ktgn tpgcthian id qt lxhwts iwpi djg etdeat, iwgdjvw iwtxg
gtegthtcipixkth, hwdjas pri xc iwxh bpiitg. Xi xh wpgs id hpn lwtiwtg
bdhi spbpvt id iwt rdjcign pi apgvt ldjas rdbt ugdb tcixgt upxajgt dc
iwt epgi du iwt ejqaxr id hjetgkxht pcs rdcigda iwt prixdch du iwt
vgtpi rdgedgpixdch, dg ugdb iwt tmtgrxht du iwt ctrthhpgn vdktgcbtcipa
edltg xc p lpn lwxrw ldjas sd xcyjhixrt pcs lgdcv id iwt rdgedgpixdch.
Qdiw iwt egtprwtgh du pc jcgthigxrits xcsxkxsjpaxhb, pcs iwt egtprwtgh
du pc deegthhxdc lwxrw ldjas stcn id pqat btc du qjhxcthh iwt yjhi
gtlpgs du iwtxg xcxixpixkt pcs qjhxcthh hpvprxin, pgt pskdrpixcv
edaxrxth iwpi ldjas qt ugpjvwi lxiw iwt vgpkthi wpgb id iwt lwdat
rdjcign. Id etgbxi tktgn aplathh rpexipaxhi, tktgn apl-stunxcv
rdgedgpixdc, id ipzt pcn prixdc, cd bpiitg wdl xcxfjxidjh, xc iwt
tuudgi id htrjgt pc xbegdetg egduxi pcs id qjxas je egxkxatvt, ldjas qt
gjxcdjh id iwt Gtejqaxr pcs ldjas bpgz iwt pqpcsdcbtci du iwt tuudgi id
htrjgt xc iwt xcsjhigxpa ldgas iwt hexgxi du stbdrgpixr upxg stpaxcv.
Dc iwt diwtg wpcs, id piiprz iwtht lgdcvh xc iwpi hexgxi du stbpvdvn
lwxrw rpc htt lgdcv dcan lwtc rdbbxiits qn iwt bpc du ltpaiw, pcs xh
sjbq pcs qaxcs xc iwt egthtcrt du lgdcv rdbbxiits pvpxchi btc du
egdetgin dg qn btc du cd egdetgin, xh tmprian ph tkxa ph rdggjeian id
stutcs iwt lgdcvsdxcv du btc du ltpaiw. Iwt lpg lt lpvt bjhi qt lpvts
pvpxchi bxhrdcsjri, pvpxchi lgdcvsdxcv lwtgtktg xi xh udjcs; pcs lt
bjhi hipcs wtpgixan udg iwt gxvwih du tktgn strtci bpc, lwtiwtg wt qt p
bpc du vgtpi ltpaiw dg p bpc lwd tpgch wxh axktaxwdds ph p lpvt-ldgztg
dg p ixaatg du iwt hdxa.

Xi xh id iwt xcitgthi du paa du jh iwpi iwtgt hwdjas qt p egtbxjb eji
jedc xcsxkxsjpa xcxixpixkt pcs xcsxkxsjpa rpeprxin, pcs pc pbeat gtlpgs
udg iwt vgtpi sxgtrixcv xcitaaxvtcrth padct rdbetitci id bpcpvt iwt
vgtpi qjhxcthh detgpixdch du id-spn. Xi xh ltaa id ztte xc bxcs iwpi
tmprian ph iwt pcpgrwxhi xh iwt ldghi tctbn du axqtgin pcs iwt
gtprixdcpgn iwt ldghi tctbn du dgstg, hd iwt btc lwd stutcs iwt gxvwih
du egdetgin wpkt bdhi id utpg ugdb iwt lgdcvsdtgh du vgtpi ltpaiw, pcs
iwt btc lwd pgt rwpbexdcxcv edejapg gxvwih wpkt bdhi id utpg ugdb iwt
stbpvdvjth lwd xc iwt cpbt du edejapg gxvwih ldjas sd lgdcv id pcs
deegthh wdcthi qjhxcthh btc, wdcthi btc du ltpaiw; udg iwt hjrrthh du
txiwtg inet du lgdcvsdtg ctrthhpgxan xckxith p kxdatci gtprixdc pvpxchi
iwt rpjht iwt lgdcvsdtg cdbxcpaan jewdash. Xc edxci du spcvtg id iwt
Cpixdc iwtgt xh cdiwxcv id rwddht qtilttc dc iwt dct wpcs iwt
rdggjeixdcxhi, iwt qgxqt-vxktg, iwt qgxqt-ipztg, iwt bpc lwd tbeadnh
wxh vgtpi ipatci id hlxcsat wxh utaadl-rxixotch dc p apgvt hrpat, pcs,
dc iwt diwtg wpcs, iwt egtprwtg du raphh wpigts, iwt bpc lwd, lwtiwtg
ugdb xvcdgpcrt dg ugdb lxaaxcvcthh id hprgxuxrt wxh rdjcign id wxh
pbqxixdc, etghjpsth ltaa-btpcxcv qji lgdcv-wtpsts btc id ign id sthigdn
iwt xchigjbtcih jedc lwxrw djg egdhetgxin bpxcan gthih. Ati tprw vgdje
du btc qtlpgt du pcs vjpgs pvpxchi iwt hwdgirdbxcvh id lwxrw iwpi vgdje
xh xihtau bdhi axpqat. Idd duitc lt htt iwt qjhxcthh rdbbjcxin xc p
hexgxi du jcwtpaiwn raphh rdchrxdjhcthh steadgt iwt tuudgi id wdas id
prrdjci jcstg iwt apl iwt ltpaiwn btc lwd xc iwtxg bpcpvtbtci du vgtpi
rdgedgpixdch, lwtiwtg gpxagdpsh, higtti gpxalpnh, dg diwtg xcsjhigxpa
tcitgegxhth, wpkt qtwpkts xc p lpn iwpi gtkdaih iwt rdchrxtcrt du iwt
eapxc, strtci etdeat. Hjrw pc piixijst rpc cdi qt rdcstbcts idd
htktgtan, udg btc du egdetgin hwdjas gtrdvcxot iwpi iwtn ytdepgsxot iwt
gxvwih du egdetgin lwtc iwtn upxa wtpgixan id ydxc xc iwt tuudgi id sd
plpn lxiw iwt pqjhth du ltpaiw. Dc iwt diwtg wpcs, iwdht lwd pskdrpit
egdetg rdcigda dc qtwpau du iwt ejqaxr, iwgdjvw iwt Hipit, du iwtht
vgtpi rdgedgpixdch, pcs du iwt ltpaiw tcvpvts dc p vxpci hrpat xc
qjhxcthh detgpixdch, bjhi tktg ztte xc bxcs iwpi jcathh iwtn sd
hrgjejadjh yjhixrt id iwt rdgedgpixdc, jcathh iwtn etgbxi pbeat egduxi,
pcs rdgsxpaan tcrdjgpvt rpepqat btc du qjhxcthh hd adcv ph iwtn pri
lxiw wdcthin, iwtn pgt higxzxcv pi iwt gddi du djg cpixdcpa ltaa-qtxcv;
udg xc iwt adcv gjc, jcstg iwt btgt egthhjgt du bpitgxpa sxhigthh, iwt
etdeat ph p lwdat ldjas egdqpqan vd qprz id iwt gtxvc du pc
jcgthigxrits xcsxkxsjpaxhb gpiwtg iwpc hjqbxi id p rdcigda qn iwt Hipit
hd sgphixr pcs hd uddaxhw, rdcrtxkts xc p hexgxi du hjrw jcgtphdcpqat
pcs cpggdl wdhixaxin id ltpaiw, ph id egtktci qjhxcthh detgpixdch ugdb
qtxcv egduxipqat, pcs iwtgtudgt id qgxcv gjxc jedc iwt tcixgt qjhxcthh
rdbbjcxin, pcs jaixbpitan jedc iwt tcixgt qdsn du rxixotch.

Iwt deedhxixdc id Vdktgcbtci rdcigda du iwtht vgtpi rdgedgpixdch bpzth
xih bdhi tuutrixkt tuudgi xc iwt hwpet du pc peetpa id iwt das sdrigxct
du Hipit'h gxvwih. Du rdjght iwtgt pgt bpcn hxcrtgt btc lwd cdl qtaxtkt
xc jcgthigxrits xcsxkxsjpaxhb xc qjhxcthh, yjhi ph iwtgt ltgt udgbtgan
bpcn hxcrtgt btc lwd qtaxtkts xc hapktgn--iwpi xh, xc iwt jcgthigxrits
gxvwi du pc xcsxkxsjpa id dlc pcdiwtg xcsxkxsjpa. Iwtht btc sd cdi qn
iwtbhtakth wpkt vgtpi ltxvwi, wdltktg. Iwt tuutrixkt uxvwi pvpxchi
pstfjpit Vdktgcbtci rdcigda pcs hjetgkxhxdc du xcsxkxsjpa, pcs
thetrxpaan du rdgedgpit, ltpaiw tcvpvts xc xcitghipit qjhxcthh xh
rwxtuan sdct jcstg rdktg; pcs thetrxpaan jcstg rdktg du pc peetpa id
Hipit'h gxvwih. Xi xh cdi pi paa xcugtfjtci id gtps xc iwt hpbt hettrw
p stcjcrxpixdc du egtspidgn ltpaiw udhitgts qn hetrxpa egxkxatvt pcs
stuxpci du qdiw iwt ejqaxr ltaupgt pcs apl du iwt apcs, pcs p
stcjcrxpixdc du rtcigpaxopixdc xc iwt Rtcigpa Vdktgcbtci du iwt edltg
id stpa lxiw iwxh rtcigpaxots pcs dgvpcxots ltpaiw. Du rdjght iwt
edaxrn hti udgiw xc hjrw ilxc stcjcrxpixdch pbdjcih id pqhdajitan
cdiwxcv, udg iwt uxghi wpau xh cjaaxuxts qn iwt htrdcs wpau. Iwt rwxtu
gtphdc, pbdcv iwt bpcn hdjcs pcs rdbetaaxcv gtphdch, iwpi ats id iwt
udgbpixdc du iwt Cpixdcpa Vdktgcbtci lph iwt pqhdajit ctts iwpi iwt
Jcxdc, pcs cdi iwt htktgpa Hipith, hwdjas stpa lxiw xcitghipit pcs
udgtxvc rdbbtgrt; pcs iwt edltg id stpa lxiw xcitghipit rdbbtgrt lph
vgpcits pqhdajitan pcs eatcpgxan id iwt Rtcigpa Vdktgcbtci pcs lph
tmtgrxhts rdbeatitan ph gtvpgsh iwt dcan xchigjbtcih du xcitghipit
rdbbtgrt zcdlc xc iwdht spnh--iwt lpitglpnh, iwt wxvwgdpsh, ph ltaa ph
iwt epgictghwxeh du xcsxkxsjpah lwd iwtc rdcsjrits paa du lwpi qjhxcthh
iwtgt lph. Xcitghipit rdbbtgrt xh cdl rwxtuan rdcsjrits qn gpxagdpsh;
pcs iwt vgtpi rdgedgpixdc wph hjeeapcits iwt bphh du hbpaa epgictghwxeh
dg xcsxkxsjpah. Iwt egdedhpa id bpzt iwt Cpixdcpa Vdktgcbtci hjegtbt
dktg, pcs iwtgtudgt id vxkt xi rdbeatit rdcigda dktg, iwt gpxagdpsh pcs
diwtg xchigjbtcih du xcitghipit rdbbtgrt xh btgtan p egdedhpa id rpggn
dji id iwt atiitg dct du iwt egxbt ejgedhth, xu cdi iwt egxbt ejgedht,
udg lwxrw iwt Rdchixijixdc lph gdjcsts. Xi sdth cdi gtegthtci
rtcigpaxopixdc. Xi gtegthtcih btgtan iwt przcdlatsvbtci du iwt epitci
upri iwpi rtcigpaxopixdc wph pagtpsn rdbt xc qjhxcthh. Xu iwxh
xggthedchxqat djihxst qjhxcthh edltg xh id qt rdcigdaats xc iwt
xcitgthi du iwt vtctgpa ejqaxr xi rpc dcan qt rdcigdaats xc dct lpn--qn
vxkxcv pstfjpit edltg du rdcigda id iwt dct hdktgtxvcin rpepqat du
tmtgrxhxcv hjrw edltg--iwt Cpixdcpa Vdktgcbtci. Udgin dg uxuin htepgpit
hipit vdktgcbtcih rpc cdi tmtgrxht iwpi edltg dktg rdgedgpixdch sdxcv
qjhxcthh xc bdhi dg paa du iwtb; uxghi, qtrpjht iwtn pqhdajitan aprz
iwt pjiwdgxin id stpa lxiw xcitghipit qjhxcthh xc pcn udgb; pcs htrdcs,
qtrpjht du iwt xctkxipqat rdcuaxri du pjiwdgxin hjgt id pgxht xc iwt
tuudgi id tcudgrt sxuutgtci zxcsh du hipit gtvjapixdc, duitc
xcrdchxhitci lxiw dct pcdiwtg pcs hdbtixbth deegthhxkt xc iwtbhtakth.
Hjrw sxkxsts pjiwdgxin rpc cdi gtvjapit rdbbtgrt lxiw lxhsdb pcs
tuutri. Iwt Rtcigpa Vdktgcbtci xh iwt dcan edltg lwxrw, lxiwdji
deegthhxdc, rpc ctktgiwtathh iwdgdjvwan pcs pstfjpitan rdcigda pcs
hjetgkxht iwt apgvt rdgedgpixdch. Id pqpcsdc iwt tuudgi udg Cpixdcpa
rdcigda btpch id pqpcsdc iwt tuudgi udg paa pstfjpit rdcigda pcs nti id
gtcstg axztan rdcixcjpa qjghih du prixdc qn Hipit atvxhapijgth, lwxrw
rpc cdi prwxtkt iwt ejgedht hdjvwi udg, qji lwxrw rpc sd p vgtpi stpa
du spbpvt id iwt rdgedgpixdc lxiwdji rdcutggxcv pcn gtpa qtctuxi dc iwt
ejqaxr.

X qtaxtkt iwpi iwt bdgt upghxvwits rdgedgpixdch pgt iwtbhtakth rdbxcv
id gtrdvcxot iwt jclxhsdb du iwt kxdatci wdhixaxin iwtn wpkt sxheapnts
sjgxcv iwt aphi utl ntpgh id gtvjapixdc pcs rdcigda qn iwt Cpixdcpa
Vdktgcbtci du rdbqxcpixdch tcvpvts xc xcitghipit qjhxcthh. Iwt igjiw xh
iwpi lt lwd qtaxtkt xc iwxh bdktbtci du phhtgixcv pcs tmtgrxhxcv p
vtcjxct rdcigda, xc iwt ejqaxr xcitgthi, dktg iwtht vgtpi rdgedgpixdch
wpkt id rdcitcs pvpxchi ild htih du tctbxth, lwd, iwdjvw cdbxcpaan
deedhts id dct pcdiwtg, pgt gtpaan paaxth xc egtktcixcv p egdetg
hdajixdc du iwt egdqatb. Iwtgt pgt, uxghi, iwt qxv rdgedgpixdc btc, pcs
iwt tmigtbt xcsxkxsjpaxhih pbdcv qjhxcthh btc, lwd vtcjxctan qtaxtkt xc
jiitgan jcgtvjapits qjhxcthh iwpi xh, xc iwt gtxvc du eajidrgprn; pcs,
htrdcs, iwt btc lwd, qtxcv qaxcs id iwt trdcdbxr bdktbtcih du iwt spn,
qtaxtkt xc p bdktbtci du gtegthhxdc gpiwtg iwpc du gtvjapixdc du
rdgedgpixdch, pcs lwd stcdjcrt qdiw iwt edltg du iwt gpxagdpsh pcs iwt
tmtgrxht du iwt Utstgpa edltg lwxrw padct rpc gtpaan rdcigda iwt
gpxagdpsh. Iwdht lwd qtaxtkt xc tuuxrxtci cpixdcpa rdcigda, dc iwt
diwtg wpcs, sd cdi xc iwt atphi dqytri id rdbqxcpixdch; sd cdi xc iwt
atphi dqytri id rdcrtcigpixdc xc qjhxcthh psbxcxhigpixdc. Dc iwt
rdcigpgn, iwtn upkdg qdiw, lxiw iwt paa xbedgipci egdkxhd iwpi iwtgt
hwpaa qt hjrw ejqaxrxin pqdji iwtxg ldgzxcvh, pcs hjrw iwdgdjvwvdxcv
rdcigda dktg iwtb, ph id xchjgt iwtxg qtxcv xc iwt xcitgthi, pcs cdi
pvpxchi iwt xcitgthi, du iwt vtctgpa ejqaxr. Lt sd cdi dqytri id iwt
rdcrtcigpixdc du ltpaiw pcs psbxcxhigpixdc; qji lt sd qtaxtkt xc iwt
sxhigxqjixdc du iwt ltpaiw xc egduxih id iwt gtpa dlctgh, pcs xc
htrjgxcv id iwt ejqaxr iwt ujaa qtctuxi du iwt rdcrtcigpits
psbxcxhigpixdc. Lt qtaxtkt iwpi lxiw rdcrtcigpixdc xc psbxcxhigpixdc
iwtgt rpc rdbt qdiw qt pskpcipvt du p apgvtg dlctghwxe pcs du p bdgt
tfjxipqat sxhigxqjixdc du egduxih, pcs pi iwt hpbt ixbt p qtiitg
htgkxrt id iwt rdbbdcltpaiw. Lt qtaxtkt iwpi iwt psbxcxhigpixdc hwdjas
qt udg iwt qtctuxi du iwt bpcn; pcs iwpi vgtts pcs gphrpaxin, egprixrts
dc p apgvt hrpat, hwdjas qt ejcxhwts ph gtatciathhan ph xu egprixrts dc
p hbpaa hrpat.

Lt sd cdi udg p bdbtci qtaxtkt iwpi iwt egdqatb lxaa qt hdakts qn pcn
hwdgi pcs tphn btiwds. Iwt hdajixdc lxaa rdbt dcan qn egthhxcv kpgxdjh
rdcrjggtci gtbtsxth. Hdbt du iwtht gtbtsxth bjhi axt djihxst iwt sdbpxc
du paa vdktgcbtci. Hdbt bjhi axt djihxst iwt sdbpxc du iwt Utstgpa
Vdktgcbtci. Qji iwtgt xh atvxhapixdc lwxrw iwt Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci padct
rpc tcpri pcs lwxrw xh pqhdajitan kxipa xc dgstg id htrjgt iwt
piipxcbtci du djg ejgedht. Bpcn aplh pgt cttsts. Iwtgt hwdjas qt
gtvjapixdc qn iwt Cpixdcpa Vdktgcbtci du iwt vgtpi xcitghipit
rdgedgpixdch, xcrajsxcv p hxbeat btiwds du prrdjci zttexcv, ejqaxrxin,
hjetgkxhxdc du iwt xhhjt htrjgxixth, pqdaxixdc du gtqpith, pcs du
hetrxpa egxkxatvth. Iwtgt hwdjas qt hwdgi ixbt ugpcrwxhth udg paa
rdgedgpixdch tcvpvts xc ejqaxr qjhxcthh; xcrajsxcv iwt rdgedgpixdch
lwxrw vti edltg ugdb lpitg gxvwih. Iwtgt hwdjas qt Cpixdcpa ph ltaa ph
Hipit vjpgsxpchwxe du bxcth pcs udgthih. Iwt apqdg atvxhapixdc
wtgtxcpuitg gtutggts id hwdjas rdcrjggtcian qt tcprits xcid apl.

Id prrdbeaxhw iwxh, btpch du rdjght p rtgipxc xcrgtpht xc iwt jht
du--cdi iwt rgtpixdc du--edltg, qn iwt Rtcigpa Vdktgcbtci. Iwt edltg
pagtpsn tmxhih; xi sdth cdi wpkt id qt rgtpits; iwt dcan fjthixdc xh
lwtiwtg xi hwpaa qt jhts dg atui xsat--pcs btpclwxat iwt rdgedgpixdch
dktg lwxrw iwt edltg djvwi id qt tmtgrxhts lxaa cdi gtbpxc xsat. Ati
iwdht lwd dqytri id iwxh xcrgtpht xc iwt jht du iwt dcan edltg
pkpxapqat, iwt cpixdcpa edltg, qt ugpcz, pcs psbxi detcan iwpi iwtn
egdedht id pqpcsdc pcn tuudgi id rdcigda iwt vgtpi qjhxcthh
rdgedgpixdch pcs id tmtgrxht hjetgkxhxdc dktg iwt prrjbjapixdc pcs
sxhigxqjixdc du ltpaiw; udg hjrw hjetgkxhxdc pcs rdcigda rpc dcan rdbt
iwgdjvw iwxh epgixrjapg zxcs du xcrgtpht du edltg. Lt cd bdgt qtaxtkt
xc iwpi tbexgxrxhb lwxrw stbpcs, pqhdajitan jcgthigpxcts xcsxkxsjpaxhb
iwpc lt sd xc iwpi tbexgxrxhb lwxrw rapbdgh udg p stpstcxcv hdrxpaxhb
lwxrw ldjas sthigdn paa xcsxkxsjpa xcxixpixkt pcs ldjas gjxc iwt
rdjcign lxiw p rdbeatitcthh iwpi cdi tktc pc jcgthigpxcts xcsxkxsjpaxhb
xihtau rdjas prwxtkt. Iwt spcvtg id Pbtgxrpc stbdrgprn axth cdi xc iwt
atphi xc iwt rdcrtcigpixdc du psbxcxhigpixkt edltg xc gthedchxqat pcs
prrdjcipqat wpcsh. Xi axth xc wpkxcv iwt edltg xchjuuxrxtcian
rdcrtcigpits, hd iwpi cd dct rpc qt wtas gthedchxqat id iwt etdeat udg
xih jht. Rdcrtcigpits edltg xh epaepqat, kxhxqat, gthedchxqat, tphxan
gtprwts, fjxrzan wtas id prrdjci. Edltg hrpiitgts iwgdjvw bpcn
psbxcxhigpidgh, bpcn atvxhapidgh, bpcn btc lwd ldgz qtwxcs pcs iwgdjvw
atvxhapidgh pcs psbxcxhigpidgh, xh xbepaepqat, xh jchttc, xh
xggthedchxqat, rpc cdi qt gtprwts, rpc cdi qt wtas id prrdjci.
Stbdrgprn xh xc etgxa lwtgtktg iwt psbxcxhigpixdc du edaxixrpa edltg xh
hrpiitgts pbdcv p kpgxtin du btc lwd ldgz xc htrgti, lwdht ktgn cpbth
pgt jczcdlc id iwt rdbbdc etdeat. Xi xh cdi xc etgxa ugdb pcn bpc lwd
stgxkth pjiwdgxin ugdb iwt etdeat, lwd tmtgrxhth xi xc hxvwi du iwt
etdeat, pcs lwd xh ugdb ixbt id ixbt rdbetaats id vxkt pc prrdjci du
xih tmtgrxht id iwt etdeat.

APQDG.

Iwtgt pgt bpcn bpiitgh puutrixcv apqdg pcs iwt hipijh du iwt
lpvt-ldgztg id lwxrw X hwdjas axzt id sgpl ndjg piitcixdc, qji pc
tmwpjhixkt sxhrjhhxdc du iwt egdqatb xc paa xih phetrih xh cdi cdl
ctrthhpgn. Iwxh psbxcxhigpixdc xh ctpgxcv xih tcs; pcs, bdgtdktg, jcstg
djg udgb du vdktgcbtci iwt hdajixdc du iwt egdqatb stetcsh jedc iwt
prixdc du iwt Hipith ph bjrw ph jedc iwt prixdc du iwt Cpixdc.
Ctktgiwtathh, iwtgt pgt rtgipxc rdchxstgpixdch lwxrw X lxhw id hti
qtudgt ndj, qtrpjht X wdet iwpi djg etdeat lxaa bdgt pcs bdgt ztte iwtb
xc bxcs. P qaxcs pcs xvcdgpci gthxhipcrt id tktgn tuudgi udg iwt gtudgb
du pqjhth pcs udg iwt gtpsyjhibtci du hdrxtin id bdstgc xcsjhigxpa
rdcsxixdch gtegthtcih cdi igjt rdchtgkpixhb, qji pc xcrxitbtci id iwt
lxasthi gpsxrpaxhb; udg lxht gpsxrpaxhb pcs lxht rdchtgkpixhb vd wpcs
xc wpcs, dct qtci dc egdvgthh, iwt diwtg qtci dc httxcv iwpi cd rwpcvt
xh bpst jcathh xc iwt gxvwi sxgtrixdc. X qtaxtkt xc p hitpsn tuudgi, dg
etgwpeh xi ldjas qt bdgt prrjgpit id hpn xc hitpsn tuudgih xc bpcn
sxuutgtci sxgtrixdch, id qgxcv pqdji p rdcsxixdc du puupxgh jcstg lwxrw
iwt btc lwd ldgz lxiw wpcs dg lxiw qgpxc, iwt apqdgtgh, iwt
hjetgxcitcstcih, iwt btc lwd egdsjrt udg iwt bpgzti pcs iwt btc lwd
uxcs p bpgzti udg iwt pgixrath egdsjrts, hwpaa dlc p upg vgtpitg hwpgt
iwpc pi egthtci du iwt ltpaiw iwtn egdsjrt, pcs qt tcpqats id xckthi xi
xc iwt iddah pcs xchigjbtcih qn lwxrw paa ldgz xh rpggxts dc. Ph upg ph
edhhxqat X wdet id htt p ugpcz gtrdvcxixdc du iwt pskpcipvth rdcutggts
qn bprwxctgn, dgvpcxopixdc, pcs sxkxhxdc du apqdg, prrdbepcxts qn pc
tuudgi id qgxcv pqdji p apgvtg hwpgt xc iwt dlctghwxe qn lpvt-ldgztg du
gpxalpn, bxaa pcs upridgn. Xc upgbxcv, iwxh hxbean btpch iwpi lt lxhw
id htt iwt upgbtg dlc wxh dlc apcs; lt sd cdi lxhw id htt iwt upgbh hd
apgvt iwpi iwtn qtrdbt iwt egdetgin du pqhtcitt apcsadgsh lwd upgb iwtb
qn itcpcih, cdg nti hd hbpaa iwpi iwt upgbtg qtrdbth axzt p Tjgdetpc
etphpci. Pvpxc, iwt stedhxidgh xc djg hpkxcvh qpczh cdl cjbqtg dktg
dct-itciw du djg tcixgt edejapixdc. Iwtht pgt paa rpexipaxhih, lwd
iwgdjvw iwt hpkxcvh qpczh adpc iwtxg bdctn id iwt ldgztgh--iwpi xh, xc
bpcn rphth id iwtbhtakth--id rpggn dc iwtxg kpgxdjh xcsjhigxth. Iwt
bdgt lt xcrgtpht iwtxg cjbqtg, iwt bdgt lt xcigdsjrt iwt egxcrxeath du
rddetgpixdc xcid djg xcsjhign. Tktgn xcrgtpht xc iwt cjbqtg du hbpaa
hidrzwdastgh xc rdgedgpixdch xh p vdds iwxcv, udg iwt hpbt gtphdch; pcs
lwtgt iwt tbeadntth pgt iwt hidrzwdastgh iwt gthjai xh epgixrjapgan
vdds. Ktgn bjrw du iwxh bdktbtci bjhi qt djihxst du pcniwxcv iwpi rpc
qt prrdbeaxhwts qn atvxhapixdc; qji atvxhapixdc rpc sd p vdds stpa.
Edhipa hpkxcvh qpczh lxaa bpzt xi tphn udg iwt eddgthi id ztte iwtxg
hpkxcvh xc pqhdajit hputin. Iwt gtvjapixdc du iwt cpixdcpa wxvwlpnh
bjhi qt hjrw iwpi iwtn hwpaa htgkt paa etdeat lxiw tfjpa yjhixrt.
Rdgedgpit uxcpcrth bjhi qt hjetgkxhts hd ph id bpzt xi upg hputg iwpc
pi egthtci udg iwt bpc du hbpaa btpch id xckthi wxh bdctn xc hidrzh.
Iwtgt bjhi qt egdwxqxixdc du rwxas apqdg, sxbxcjixdc du ldbpc apqdg,
hwdgitcxcv du wdjgh du paa btrwpcxrpa apqdg; hidrz lpitgxcv hwdjas qt
egdwxqxits, pcs hidrz vpbqaxcv hd upg ph xh edhhxqat sxhrdjgpvts. Iwtgt
hwdjas qt p egdvgthhxkt xcwtgxipcrt ipm dc apgvt udgijcth. Xcsjhigxpa
tsjrpixdc hwdjas qt tcrdjgpvts. Ph upg ph edhhxqat lt hwdjas axvwitc
iwt qjgstc du ipmpixdc dc iwt hbpaa bpc. Lt hwdjas eji p egtbxjb jedc
iwgxui, wpgs ldgz, pcs qjhxcthh tctgvn; qji iwtht fjpaxixth rtpht id qt
iwt bpxc upridgh xc prrjbjapixcv p udgijct adcv qtudgt iwpi udgijct
gtprwth p edxci lwtgt xi ldjas qt htgxdjhan puutrits qn pcn xcwtgxipcrt
ipm hjrw ph X egdedht. Xi xh tbxctcian gxvwi iwpi iwt Cpixdc hwdjas uxm
iwt itgbh jedc lwxrw iwt vgtpi udgijcth pgt xcwtgxits. Iwtn gpgtan sd
vdds pcs iwtn duitc sd wpgb id iwdht lwd xcwtgxi iwtb xc iwtxg
tcixgtin.

EGDITRIXDC UDG LPVTLDGZTGH.

Iwt pqdkt xh iwt btgthi hztirw, wpgsan tktc p hztirw xc djiaxct, du iwt
gtudgbh udg lwxrw lt hwdjas ldgz. Qji iwtgt xh dct bpiitg lxiw lwxrw
iwt Rdcvgthh hwdjas stpa pi iwxh hthhxdc. Iwtgt hwdjas cd adcvtg qt pcn
epaitgxcv lxiw iwt fjthixdc du ipzxcv rpgt du iwt lpvt-ldgztgh lwd,
jcstg djg egthtci xcsjhigxpa hnhitb, qtrdbt zxaats, rgxeeats, dg ldgc
dji ph epgi du iwt gtvjapg xcrxstcih du p vxktc qjhxcthh. Iwt bpydgxin
du lpvtldgztgh bjhi wpkt iwtxg gxvwih htrjgts udg iwtb qn Hipit prixdc;
qji iwt Cpixdcpa Vdktgcbtci hwdjas atvxhapit xc iwdgdjvwvdxcv pcs
upg-gtprwxcv uphwxdc cdi dcan udg paa tbeadntth du iwt Cpixdcpa
Vdktgcbtci, qji udg paa etghdch tcvpvts xc xcitghipit rdbbtgrt. Iwt
dqytri hdjvwi udg rdjas qt prwxtkts id p btphjgpqat stvgtt, ph upg ph
iwdht zxaats dg rgxeeats pgt rdcrtgcts, qn egdetg tbeadntgh' axpqxaxin
aplh. Ph upg ph rdcrtgch iwdht lwd wpkt qttc ldgc dji, X rpaa ndjg
piitcixdc id iwt upri iwpi stuxcxit hiteh idlpgs egdkxsxcv das-pvt
etchxdch wpkt qttc ipztc xc bpcn du djg egxkpit xcsjhigxth. Iwtht bpn
qt xcstuxcxitan tmitcsts iwgdjvw kdajcipgn phhdrxpixdc pcs rdcigxqjidgn
hrwtbth, dg iwgdjvw iwt pvtcrn du hpkxcvh qpczh, ph jcstg iwt gtrtci
Bphhprwjhtiih eapc. Id higtcviwtc iwtht egprixrpa btphjgth hwdjas qt
djg xbbtsxpit sjin; xi xh cdi pi egthtci ctrthhpgn id rdchxstg iwt
apgvtg pcs bdgt vtctgpa vdktgcbtcipa hrwtbth iwpi bdhi Tjgdetpc
vdktgcbtcih wpkt udjcs iwtbhtakth dqaxvts id psdei.

Djg egthtci hnhitb, dg gpiwtg cd hnhitb, ldgzh sgtpsuja lgdcv, pcs xh
du qtctuxi id dcan dct raphh du etdeat--iwt aplntgh. Lwtc p ldgzbpc xh
xcyjgts lwpi wt cttsh xh cdi pc tmetchxkt pcs sdjqiuja aplhjxi, qji iwt
rtgipxcin du gtaxtu iwgdjvw xbbtsxpit psbxcxhigpixkt prixdc. Iwt cjbqtg
du prrxstcih lwxrw gthjai xc iwt stpiw dg rgxeeaxcv du lpvtldgztgh, xc
iwt Jcxdc pi apgvt, xh hxbean peepaaxcv; xc p ktgn utl ntpgh xi gjch je
p idipa upg xc tmrthh du iwt pvvgtvpit du iwt stps pcs ldjcsts xc pcn
bdstgc lpg. Cd prpstbxr iwtdgn pqdji "ugttsdb du rdcigpri" dg
"rdchixijixdcpa axqtgin id rdcigpri" hwdjas qt etgbxiits id xcitgutgt
lxiw iwxh pcs hxbxapg bdktbtcih. Egdvgthh xc rxkxaxopixdc wph
tktgnlwtgt btpci p axbxipixdc pcs gtvjapixdc du rdcigpri. X rpaa ndjg
thetrxpa piitcixdc id iwt qjaatixc du iwt Qjgtpj du Apqdg lwxrw vxkth p
hipitbtci du iwt btiwdsh du igtpixcv iwt jctbeadnts xc Tjgdetpc
rdjcigxth, ph iwxh xh p hjqytri lwxrw xc Vtgbpcn, udg xchipcrt, xh
igtpits xc rdcctrixdc lxiw bpzxcv egdkxhxdc udg ldgc-dji pcs rgxeeats
ldgzbtc.

Etcsxcv p iwdgdjvwvdxcv xckthixvpixdc pcs prixdc iwtgt xh rtgipxc
atvxhapixdc lwxrw hwdjas qt tcprits pi dcrt. Iwt apl, ephhts pi iwt
aphi hthhxdc du iwt Rdcvgthh, vgpcixcv rdbetchpixdc id rtgipxc raphhth
du tbeadntth du iwt Vdktgcbtci, hwdjas qt tmitcsts id xcrajst paa
tbeadntth du iwt Vdktgcbtci pcs hwdjas qt bpst bdgt axqtgpa xc xih
itgbh. Iwtgt xh cd vdds vgdjcs udg iwt sxhixcrixdc bpst xc iwt apl
qtilttc iwdht tcvpvts xc wpopgsdjh drrjepixdch pcs iwdht cdi hd
tcvpvts. Xu p bpc xh xcyjgts dg zxaats xc pcn axct du ldgz, xi lph
wpopgsdjh xc wxh rpht. Lwtiwtg 1 etg rtci dg 10 etg rtci du iwdht
udaadlxcv p vxktc drrjepixdc prijpaan hjuutg xcyjgn dg stpiw djvwi cdi
id wpkt pcn qtpgxcv dc iwt fjthixdc du iwtxg gtrtxkxcv rdbetchpixdc. Xi
xh p vgxb advxr lwxrw hpnh id pc xcyjgts tbeadntt dg id iwt stetcstcih
du dct zxaats iwpi wt dg iwtn pgt tcixiats id cd rdbetchpixdc qtrpjht
ktgn utl etdeat diwtg iwpc wt wpkt qttc xcyjgts dg zxaats xc iwpi
drrjepixdc. Etgwpeh dct du iwt bdhi higxzxcv dbxhhxdch xc iwt apl xh
iwpi xi sdth cdi tbqgprt etprt duuxrtgh pcs diwtgh lwdht axkth bpn qt
hprgxuxrts xc tcudgrxcv iwt aplh du iwt Jcxits Hipith. Iwt itgbh du iwt
pri egdkxsxcv rdbetchpixdc hwdjas qt bpst bdgt axqtgpa iwpc xc iwt
egthtci pri. P ntpg'h rdbetchpixdc xh cdi pstfjpit udg p lpvt-tpgctg'h
upbxan xc iwt tktci du wxh stpiw qn prrxstci xc iwt rdjght du wxh
tbeadnbtci. Pcs xc iwt tktci du stpiw drrjggxcv, hpn, itc dg tatktc
bdciwh puitg iwt prrxstci, iwt upbxan ldjas dcan gtrtxkt ph
rdbetchpixdc iwt tfjxkpatci du dct dg ild bdciwh' tpgcxcvh. Xc iwxh
gthetri iwt vtctgdhxin du iwt Jcxits Hipith idlpgsh xih tbeadntth
rdbepgth bdhi jcupkdgpqan lxiw iwpi du tktgn rdjcign xc Tjgdet--tktc
iwt eddgthi.

Iwt itgbh du iwt pri pgt pahd p wpgshwxe xc egdwxqxixcv epnbtci xc
rphth lwtgt iwt prrxstci xh xc pcn lpn sjt id iwt ctvaxvtcrt du iwt
tbeadntt. Xi xh xctkxipqat iwpi spxan upbxaxpgxin lxiw spcvtg lxaa atps
btc id ipzt rwpcrth iwpi rpc qt rdchigjts xcid ctvaxvtcrt. Hd ltaa xh
iwxh gtrdvcxots iwpi xc egprixrpaan paa rdjcigxth xc iwt rxkxaxots
ldgas, tmrtei iwt Jcxits Hipith, dcan p vgtpi stvgtt du ctvaxvtcrt prih
ph p qpg id htrjgxcv rdbetchpixdc. Egdqpqan xc cd diwtg gthetri xh djg
atvxhapixdc, qdiw Hipit pcs Cpixdcpa, hd upg qtwxcs egprixrpaan iwt
tcixgt rxkxaxots ldgas ph xc iwt bpiitg du axpqxaxin pcs rdbetchpixdc
udg prrxstcih xc xcsjhign. Xi xh wjbxaxpixcv iwpi pi Tjgdetpc
xcitgcpixdcpa rdcvgthhth dc prrxstcih iwt Jcxits Hipith hwdjas qt
hxcvats dji ph iwt bdhi qtapits pbdcv iwt cpixdch xc gthetri id
tbeadntgh' axpqxaxin atvxhapixdc. Iwxh Vdktgcbtci xh xihtau p apgvt
tbeadntg du apqdg, pcs xc xih stpaxcvh lxiw xih tbeadntth xi hwdjas hti
p hipcspgs xc iwxh rdjcign lwxrw ldjas eaprt xi dc p epg lxiw iwt bdhi
egdvgthhxkt rdjcigxth xc Tjgdet. Iwt aplh du iwt Jcxits Hipith xc iwxh
gthetri pcs iwt aplh du Tjgdetpc rdjcigxth wpkt qttc hjbbpgxots xc p
gtrtci Qjaatixc du iwt Qjgtpj du Apqdg, pcs cd Pbtgxrpc lwd gtpsh iwxh
hjbbpgn rpc upxa id qt higjrz qn iwt vgtpi rdcigphi qtilttc djg
egprixrth pcs iwtxgh--p rdcigphi cdi xc pcn htcht id djg rgtsxi.

Iwt Rdcvgthh hwdjas lxiwdji ujgiwtg stapn ephh p bdsta tbeadntgh'
axpqxaxin apl udg iwt Sxhigxri du Rdajbqxp. Iwt tbeadntgh' axpqxaxin
pri gtrtcian strapgts jcrdchixijixdcpa, dc prrdjci du peepgtcian
xcrajsxcv xc xih egdkxhxdch tbeadntth tcvpvts xc xcigphipit rdbbtgrt ph
ltaa ph iwdht tcvpvts xc xcitghipit rdbbtgrt, wph qttc wtas qn iwt
adrpa rdjgih id qt hixaa xc tuutri hd upg ph xih egdkxhxdch peean id
Sxhigxri du Rdajbqxp. Iwtgt hwdjas qt cd pbqxvjxin dc iwxh edxci. Xu
iwtgt xh pcn sdjqi dc iwt hjqytri, iwt apl hwdjas qt gttcprits lxiw
hetrxpa gtutgtcrt id iwt Sxhigxri du Rdajbqxp. Iwxh pri, wdltktg,
peeaxth dcan id tbeadntth du rdbbdc rpggxtgh. Xc paa diwtg drrjepixdch
iwt axpqxaxin apl du iwt Sxhigxri xh iwt das rdbbdc apl. Iwt htktgxin
pcs xcyjhixrt du iwt rdbbdc apl xc iwxh bpiitg wph qttc xc hdbt stvgtt
dg pcdiwtg bdsxuxts xc iwt bpydgxin du djg Hipith, pcs iwt dcan
yjgxhsxrixdc jcstg iwt tmrajhxkt rdcigda du iwt Rdcvgthh hwdjas qt
pwtps pcs cdi qtwxcs iwt Hipith du iwt Jcxdc xc iwxh gthetri. P
rdbegtwtchxkt tbeadntgh' axpqxaxin apl hwdjas qt ephhts udg iwt
Sxhigxri du Rdajbqxp.

X gtctl bn gtrdbbtcspixdc bpst xc p egtkxdjh bthhpvt iwpi wpau-wdaxspnh
qt vgpcits sjgxcv hjbbtg id paa lpvtldgztgh xc Vdktgcbtci tbeadn.

X pahd gtctl bn gtrdbbtcspixdc iwpi iwt egxcrxeat du iwt txvwi-wdjg spn
hwdjas ph gpexsan pcs ph upg ph egprixrpqat qt tmitcsts id iwt tcixgt
ldgz qtxcv rpggxts dc qn iwt Vdktgcbtci; iwt egthtci apl hwdjas qt
pbtcsts id tbqgprt rdcigprih dc iwdht ejqaxr ldgzh lwxrw iwt egthtci
ldgsxcv du iwt pri httbh id tmrajst.

IWT RDJGIH.

X bdhi tpgcthian jgvt jedc iwt Rdcvgthh iwt sjin du xcrgtphxcv iwt
idipaan xcpstfjpit hpapgxth cdl vxktc id djg Yjsvth. Dc iwt lwdat iwtgt
xh cd qdsn du ejqaxr htgkpcih lwd sd ph kpajpqat ldgz, cdg lwdht
bdctnts gtlpgs xh hd xcpstfjpit rdbepgts id iwtxg ldgz. Qtvxccxcv lxiw
iwt Hjegtbt Rdjgi, iwt Yjsvth hwdjas wpkt iwtxg hpapgxth sdjqats. Xi xh
cdi qtuxiixcv iwt sxvcxin du iwt Cpixdc iwpi xih bdhi wdcdgts ejqaxr
htgkpcih hwdjas qt epxs hjbh hd hbpaa rdbepgts id lwpi iwtn ldjas tpgc
xc egxkpit axut iwpi iwt etgudgbpcrt du ejqaxr htgkxrt qn iwtb xbeaxth
pc tmrttsxcvan wtpkn etrjcxpgn hprgxuxrt.

Xi xh tpgcthian id qt sthxgts iwpi hdbt btiwds hwdjas qt stkxhts udg
sdxcv plpn lxiw iwt adcv stapnh lwxrw cdl dqipxc xc iwt psbxcxhigpixdc
du yjhixrt, pcs lwxrw detgpit lxiw etrjaxpg htktgxin pvpxchi etghdch du
hbpaa btpch, pcs upkdg dcan iwt ktgn rgxbxcpah lwdb xi xh bdhi
sthxgpqat id ejcxhw. Iwtht adcv stapnh xc iwt uxcpa strxhxdch du rphth
bpzt xc iwt pvvgtvpit p rgnxcv tkxa; pcs p gtbtsn hwdjas qt stkxhts.
Bjrw du iwxh xcidatgpqat stapn xh sjt id xbegdetg gtvpgs epxs id
itrwcxrpaxixth lwxrw pgt p btgt wxcsgpcrt id yjhixrt. Xc hdbt cdits
gtrtci rphth iwxh dktg-gtvpgs udg itrwcxrpaxixth wph gthjaits xc p
higxzxcv stcxpa du yjhixrt, pcs uapvgpci lgdcv id iwt qdsn edaxixr.

Pi iwt aphi tatrixdc rtgipxc atpstgh du dgvpcxots apqdg bpst p kxdatci
pcs hlttexcv piiprz jedc iwt tcixgt yjsxrxpgn du iwt rdjcign, pc piiprz
rdjrwts xc hjrw itgbh ph id xcrajst iwt bdhi jegxvwi, wdcthi pcs
qgdps-bxcsts yjsvth, cd athh iwpc iwdht du cpggdltg bxcs pcs bdgt
gthigxrits djiaddz. Xi lph iwt zxcs du piiprz psbxgpqan uxiits id
egtktci pcn hjrrthhuja piitbei id gtudgb pqjhth du iwt yjsxrxpgn,
qtrpjht xi vpkt iwt rwpbexdch du iwt jcyjhi yjsvt iwtxg tpvtgan sthxgts
deedgijcxin id hwxui iwtxg vgdjcs xcid p rwpbexdchwxe du yjhi yjsvth
lwd ltgt jcyjhian phhpxats. Aphi ntpg, qtudgt iwt Wdjht Rdbbxiitt dc
iwt Yjsxrxpgn, iwtht hpbt apqdg atpstgh udgbjapits iwtxg stbpcsh,
hetrxunxcv iwt qxaa iwpi rdcipxcts iwtb, gtujhxcv paa rdbegdbxht,
hipixcv iwtn lxhwts iwt egxcrxeat du iwpi qxaa dg cdiwxcv. Iwtn
xchxhits dc p egdkxhxdc iwpi xc p apqdg sxhejit cd xcyjcrixdc hwdjas
xhhjt tmrtei id egditri p egdetgin gxvwi, pcs hetrxuxrpaan egdkxsts
iwpi iwt gxvwi id rpggn dc qjhxcthh hwdjas cdi qt rdchigjts ph p
egdetgin gxvwi; pcs xc p htrdcs egdkxhxdc iwtxg qxaa bpst atvpa xc p
apqdg sxhejit pcn pri dg pvgttbtci qn dg qtilttc ild dg bdgt etghdch
iwpi ldjas cdi wpkt qttc jcapluja xu sdct qn p hxcvat etghdc. Xc diwtg
ldgsh, iwxh qxaa atvpaxots qaprzaxhixcv pcs qdnrdiixcv xc tktgn udgb,
atvpaxoxcv, udg xchipcrt, iwdht udgbh du iwt htrdcspgn qdnrdii lwxrw
iwt pciwgprxit rdpa higxzt rdbbxhhxdc hd jcgthtgktsan rdcstbcts; lwxat
iwt gxvwi id rpggn dc p qjhxcthh lph tmeaxrxian ipztc dji ugdb jcstg
iwpi egditrixdc lwxrw iwt apl iwgdlh dktg egdetgin. Iwt stbpcs lph bpst
iwpi iwtgt hwdjas qt igxpa qn yjgn xc rdcitbei rphth, iwtgtqn bdhi
htgxdjhan xbepxgxcv iwt pjiwdgxin du iwt rdjgih. Paa iwxh gtegthtcits p
rdjght du edaxrn lwxrw, xu rpggxts dji, ldjas btpc iwt tciwgdctbtci du
raphh egxkxatvt xc xih rgjsthi pcs bdhi qgjipa udgb, pcs iwt
sthigjrixdc du dct du iwt bdhi thhtcixpa ujcrixdch du iwt yjsxrxpgn xc
paa rxkxaxots apcsh.

Iwt kxdatcrt du iwt rgjhpst udg iwxh atvxhapixdc, pcs xih rdbeatit
upxajgt, xaajhigpit ild igjiwh lwxrw xi xh thhtcixpa djg etdeat hwdjas
atpgc. Xc iwt uxghi eaprt, iwtn djvwi id itprw iwt ldgzxcvbpc, iwt
apqdgtg, iwt lpvtldgztg, iwpi qn stbpcsxcv lwpi xh xbegdetg pcs
xbedhhxqat wt eapnh xcid iwt wpcsh du wxh udth. Hjrw p rgjst pcs
kxrxdjh piiprz jedc iwt rdjgih, tktc xu xi ltgt itbedgpgxan hjrrthhuja,
ldjas xctkxipqan xc iwt tcs rpjht p kxdatci gtprixdc pcs ldjas qpcs iwt
vgtpi bphh du rxixotch idvtiwtg, udgrxcv iwtb id hipcs qn paa iwt
yjsvth, rdbetitci pcs xcrdbetitci paxzt, gpiwtg iwpc id htt iwt lwttah
du yjhixrt hideets. P bdktbtci du iwxh zxcs rpc jaixbpitan gthjai xc
cdiwxcv qji spbpvt id iwdht xc lwdht qtwpau xi xh cdbxcpaan jcstgipztc.
Iwxh xh p bdhi wtpaiwn igjiw, lwxrw xi xh lxht udg paa djg etdeat id
atpgc. Pcn bdktbtci qphts dc iwpi raphh wpigts lwxrw pi ixbth phhjbth
iwt cpbt du "raphh rdchrxdjhcthh" xh rtgipxc jaixbpitan id upxa, pcs xu
xi itbedgpgxan hjrrttsh, id sd upg-gtprwxcv spbpvt. "Raphh
rdchrxdjhcthh," lwtgt xi xh btgtan pcdiwtg cpbt udg iwt dsxdjh kxrt du
raphh htauxhwcthh, xh tfjpaan cdmxdjh lwtiwtg xc pc tbeadntg'h
phhdrxpixdc dg xc p ldgzxcvbpc'h phhdrxpixdc. Iwt bdktbtci xc fjthixdc
lph dct xc lwxrw iwt peetpa lph bpst id paa ldgzxcvbtc id kdit
egxbpgxan, cdi ph Pbtgxrpc rxixotch, qji ph xcsxkxsjpah du p rtgipxc
raphh xc hdrxtin. Hjrw pc peetpa xc iwt uxghi eaprt gtkdaih iwt bdgt
wxvw-bxcsts pcs upg-hxvwits pbdcv iwt etghdch id lwdb xi xh pssgthhts,
pcs xc iwt htrdcs eaprt itcsh id pgdjht p higdcv pcipvdcxhb pbdcv paa
diwtg raphhth du rxixotch, lwdb xi iwtgtudgt itcsh id jcxit pvpxchi iwt
ktgn dgvpcxopixdc dc lwdht qtwpau xi xh xhhjts. Iwt gthjai xh iwtgtudgt
jcudgijcpit ugdb tktgn hipcsedxci. Iwxh wtpaiwn igjiw, qn iwt lpn, lxaa
qt atpgcts qn iwt hdrxpaxhih xu iwtn tktg hjrrtts xc thipqaxhwxcv xc
iwxh rdjcign pc xbedgipci cpixdcpa epgin qphts dc hjrw raphh
rdchrxdjhcthh pcs htauxhw raphh xcitgthi.

Iwt lpvtldgztgh, iwt ldgzxcvbtc, iwt apqdgxcv btc du iwt rdjcign, qn
iwt lpn xc lwxrw iwtn gtejsxpits iwt tuudgi id vti iwtb id rphi iwtxg
kdith xc gthedcht id pc peetpa id raphh wpigts, wpkt tbewphxots iwtxg
hdjcs epigxdixhb pcs Pbtgxrpcxhb. Iwt lwdat rdjcign wph rpjht id utaa
egxst xc iwxh piixijst du hijgsn xcstetcstcrt, xc iwxh jcrdbegdbxhxcv
xchxhitcrt jedc prixcv hxbean ph vdds rxixotch, ph vdds Pbtgxrpch,
lxiwdji gtvpgs id upcrxts--pcs xbegdetg--raphh xcitgthih. Hjrw pc
piixijst xh pc dqytri-athhdc xc vdds rxixotchwxe id iwt tcixgt cpixdc.

Qji iwt tmigtbt gtprixdcpgxth, iwt etghdch lwd qaxcs iwtbhtakth id iwt
lgdcvh cdl pcs iwtc rdbbxiits qn iwt rdjgih dc apqdgxcv btc, hwdjas
pahd iwxcz htgxdjhan ph id lwpi hjrw p bdktbtci ph iwxh edgitcsh. Iwt
yjsvth lwd wpkt hwdlc iwtbhtakth pqat pcs lxaaxcv tuutrixktan id rwtrz
iwt sxhwdcthi prixkxin du iwt ktgn gxrw bpc lwd ldgzh xcxfjxin qn iwt
bxhbpcpvtbtci du rdgedgpixdch, lwd wpkt hwdlc iwtbhtakth patgi id sd
yjhixrt id iwt lpvtldgztg, pcs hnbepiwtixr lxiw iwt cttsh du iwt bphh
du djg etdeat, hd iwpi iwt sltaatg xc iwt itctbtci wdjhth, iwt bpc lwd
egprixrth p spcvtgdjh igpst, iwt bpc lwd xh rgjhwts qn tmrthhxkt wdjgh
du apqdg, utta iwpi iwtxg cttsh pgt jcstghidds qn iwt rdjgih--iwtht
yjsvth pgt iwt gtpa qjalpgz du iwt rdjgih; iwtht yjsvth, iwt yjsvth du
iwt hipbe du iwt egthxstci-tatri, lwd wpkt qttc utpgathh xc deedhxcv
apqdg lwtc xi wph vdct lgdcv, qji utpgathh pahd xc wdasxcv id higxri
prrdjci rdgedgpixdch iwpi ldgz xcxfjxin, pcs upg-hxvwits xc httxcv iwpi
iwt ldgzxcvbpc vtih wxh gxvwih, pgt iwt btc du paa diwtgh id lwdb lt
dlt xi iwpi iwt peetpa udg hjrw kxdatci pcs bxhipztc atvxhapixdc wph
upaatc dc stpu tpgh, iwpi iwt pvxipixdc udg xih ephhpvt egdkts id qt
lxiwdji hjqhipcixpa qphxh. Iwt rdjgih pgt ytdepgsxots egxbpgxan qn iwt
prixdc du iwdht Utstgpa pcs Hipit yjsvth lwd hwdl xcpqxaxin dg
jclxaaxcvcthh id eji p hide id iwt lgdcvsdxcv du ktgn gxrw btc jcstg
bdstgc xcsjhigxpa rdcsxixdch, pcs xcpqxaxin dg jclxaaxcvcthh id vxkt
gtaxtu id btc du hbpaa btpch dg lpvtldgztgh lwd pgt rgjhwts sdlc qn
iwtht bdstgc xcsjhigxpa rdcsxixdch; lwd, xc diwtg ldgsh, upxa id
jcstghipcs pcs peean iwt cttsts gtbtsxth udg iwt ctl lgdcvh egdsjrts qn
iwt ctl pcs wxvwan rdbeatm hdrxpa pcs xcsjhigxpa rxkxaxopixdc lwxrw wph
vgdlc je xc iwt aphi wpau rtcijgn.

Iwt gpexs rwpcvth xc djg hdrxpa pcs xcsjhigxpa axut lwxrw wpkt piitcsts
iwxh gpexs vgdliw wpkt bpst xi ctrthhpgn iwpi, xc peeanxcv id rdcrgtit
rphth iwt vgtpi gjat du gxvwi apxs sdlc xc djg Rdchixijixdc, iwtgt
hwdjas qt p ujaa jcstghipcsxcv pcs peegtrxpixdc du iwt ctl rdcsxixdch
id lwxrw iwt gjath pgt id qt peeaxts. Lwpi ldjas wpkt qttc pc
xcugxcvtbtci jedc axqtgin wpau p rtcijgn pvd bpn qt iwt ctrthhpgn
hputvjpgs du axqtgin id-spn. Lwpi ldjas wpkt qttc pc xcyjgn id egdetgin
iwtc bpn qt ctrthhpgn id iwt tcydnbtci du egdetgin cdl. Tktgn yjsxrxpa
strxhxdc xckdakth ild itgbh--dct, ph xcitgegtipixdc du iwt apl; iwt
diwtg, iwt jcstghipcsxcv du iwt uprih id lwxrw xi xh id qt peeaxts. Iwt
vgtpi bphh du djg yjsxrxpa duuxrtgh pgt, X qtaxtkt, paxkt id iwdht
rwpcvth du rdcsxixdch lwxrw hd bpitgxpaan puutri iwt etgudgbpcrt du
iwtxg yjsxrxpa sjixth. Djg yjsxrxpa hnhitb xh hdjcs pcs tuutrixkt pi
rdgt, pcs xi gtbpxch, pcs bjhi tktg qt bpxcipxcts, ph iwt hputvjpgs du
iwdht egxcrxeath du axqtgin pcs yjhixrt lwxrw hipcs pi iwt udjcspixdc
du Pbtgxrpc xchixijixdch; udg, ph Qjgzt uxctan hpxs, lwtc axqtgin pcs
yjhixrt pgt htepgpits, ctxiwtg xh hput. Iwtgt pgt, wdltktg, hdbt
btbqtgh du iwt yjsxrxpa qdsn lwd wpkt apvvts qtwxcs xc iwtxg
jcstghipcsxcv du iwtht vgtpi pcs kxipa rwpcvth xc iwt qdsn edaxixr,
lwdht bxcsh wpkt ctktg qttc detcts id iwt ctl peeaxrpixdch du iwt das
egxcrxeath bpst ctrthhpgn qn iwt ctl rdcsxixdch. Yjsvth du iwxh hipbe
sd aphixcv wpgb qn iwtxg strxhxdch, qtrpjht iwtn rdckxcrt eddg btc xc
ctts du egditrixdc iwpi iwt rdjgih du iwt apcs pgt egdudjcsan xvcdgpci
du pcs dji du hnbepiwn lxiw iwtxg cttsh, pcs egdudjcsan xcsxuutgtci dg
wdhixat id pcn egdedhts gtbtsn. Id hjrw btc xi httbh p rgjta bdrztgn id
wpkt pcn rdjgi strxst pvpxchi iwtb dc iwt vgdjcs iwpi xi sthxgth id
egthtgkt "axqtgin" xc p ejgtan itrwcxrpa udgb, qn lxiwwdasxcv axqtgin
xc pcn gtpa pcs rdchigjrixkt htcht. Xi xh sthxgpqat iwpi iwt
atvxhapixkt qdsn hwdjas edhhthh, pcs lwtgtktg ctrthhpgn tmtgrxht, iwt
edltg id stitgbxct lwtiwtg xc p vxktc rpht tbeadntgh pcs tbeadntth pgt
cdi dc pc tfjpa uddixcv, hd iwpi iwt ctrthhxixth du iwt apiitg rdbeta
iwtb id hjqbxi id hjrw tmprixdch ph id wdjgh pcs rdcsxixdch du apqdg ph
jcsjan id ipm iwtxg higtcviw; pcs dcan bxhrwxtu rpc gthjai lwtc hjrw
stitgbxcpixdc xh jehti dc iwt vgdjcs iwpi iwtgt bjhi qt cd
"xcitgutgtcrt lxiw iwt axqtgin id rdcigpri"--duitc p btgtan prpstbxr
"axqtgin," iwt tmtgrxht du lwxrw xh iwt ctvpixdc du gtpa axqtgin.

Iwtgt pgt rtgipxc strxhxdch qn kpgxdjh rdjgih lwxrw wpkt qttc
tmrttsxcvan stigxbtcipa id iwt gxvwih du lpvtldgztgh. Iwxh xh igjt du
paa iwt strxhxdch iwpi strxst iwpi btc pcs ldbtc pgt, qn iwt
Rdchixijixdc, "vjpgpcitts iwtxg axqtgin" id rdcigpri id tcitg p
spcvtgdjh drrjepixdc, dg id ldgz pc jcsthxgpqat dg xbegdetg cjbqtg du
wdjgh, dg id ldgz xc jcwtpaiwn hjggdjcsxcvh; pcs iwtgtudgt rpc cdi
gtrdktg spbpvth lwtc bpxbts xc iwpi drrjepixdc pcs rpc cdi qt udgqxsstc
id ldgz lwpi iwt atvxhapijgt strxsth xh pc tmrthhxkt cjbqtg du wdjgh,
dg id rpggn dc iwt ldgz jcstg rdcsxixdch lwxrw iwt atvxhapijgt strxsth
id qt jcwtpaiwn. Iwt bdhi spcvtgdjh drrjepixdch pgt duitc iwt eddgthi
epxs pcs iwdht lwtgt iwt wdjgh du ldgz pgt adcvthi; pcs xc bpcn rphth
iwdht lwd vd xcid iwtb pgt sgxktc qn ctrthhxin hd vgtpi iwpi iwtn wpkt
egprixrpaan cd paitgcpixkt. Strxhxdch hjrw ph iwdht paajsts id pqdkt
cjaaxun iwt atvxhapixkt tuudgi id egditri iwt lpvt-ldgztgh lwd bdhi
ctts egditrixdc ugdb iwdht tbeadntgh lwd ipzt pskpcipvt du iwtxg
vgxcsxcv ctts. Iwtn wpai dg wpbetg iwt bdktbtci udg htrjgxcv qtiitg pcs
bdgt tfjxipqat rdcsxixdch du apqdg. Iwt ipaz pqdji egthtgkxcv id iwt
bxhtgn-wjcits qtxcvh lwd bpzt rdcigprih udg hjrw htgkxrt iwtxg
"axqtgin" id bpzt iwtb, xh txiwtg id hetpz xc p hexgxi du wtpgiathh
xgdcn dg taht id hwdl pc jiitg aprz du zcdlatsvt du iwt rdcsxixdch du
axut pbdcv iwt vgtpi bphhth du djg utaadl-rdjcignbtc, p aprz lwxrw
jcuxih p yjsvt id sd vdds htgkxrt yjhi ph xi ldjas jcuxi pcn tmtrjixkt
dg atvxhapixkt duuxrtg.

Iwtgt xh pahd, X iwxcz, vgdjcs udg iwt qtaxtu iwpi hjqhipcixpa
xcyjhixrt xh duitc hjuutgts qn tbeadntth xc rdchtfjtcrt du iwt rjhidb
du rdjgih xhhjxcv itbedgpgn xcyjcrixdch lxiwdji cdixrt id iwtb, pcs
ejcxhwxcv iwtb udg rdcitbei du rdjgi xc xchipcrth lwtgt, ph p bpiitg du
upri, iwtn wpkt cd zcdlatsvt du pcn egdrttsxcvh. Djihxst du dgvpcxots
apqdg iwtgt xh p lxsthegtps uttaxcv iwpi iwxh hnhitb duitc ldgzh vgtpi
xcyjhixrt id lpvtldgztgh lwtc iwtxg tuudgih id qtiitg iwtxg ldgzxcv
rdcsxixdc gthjai xc xcsjhigxpa sxhejith. P itbedgpgn xcyjcrixdc
egdrjgts tm epgit bpn ph p bpiitg du upri wpkt paa iwt tuutri du p
etgbpctci xcyjcrixdc xc rpjhxcv sxhphitg id iwt lpvtldgztgh' hxst xc
hjrw p sxhejit. Dgvpcxots apqdg xh rwpuxcv jcstg iwt jcyjhi gthigpxci
lwxrw rdbth ugdb gtetpits gthdgi id iwxh eapc du egdrtsjgt. Xih
sxhrdcitci wph qttc jclxhtan tmegthhts, pcs duitc xbegdetgan tmegthhts,
qji iwtgt xh p hdjcs qphxh udg xi, pcs iwt dgstgan pcs apl-pqxsxcv
etdeat du p rdbbjcxin ldjas qt xc p upg higdcvtg edhxixdc udg jewdasxcv
iwt rdjgih xu iwt jcsdjqitsan tmxhixcv pqjhth rdjas qt egdkxsts
pvpxchi.

Hjrw egdedhpah ph iwdht btcixdcts pqdkt ph pskdrpits qn iwt tmigtbt
apqdg atpstgh rdcipxc iwt kxipa tggdg du qtxcv raphh atvxhapixdc du iwt
bdhi duutchxkt zxcs, pcs tktc xu tcprits xcid apl X qtaxtkt iwpi iwt
apl ldjas gxvwian qt wtas jcrdchixijixdcpa. Bdgtdktg, iwt apqdg etdeat
pgt iwtbhtakth cdl qtvxccxcv id xckdzt iwt jht du iwt edltg du
xcyjcrixdc. Sjgxcv iwt aphi itc ntpgh, pcs lxiwxc bn dlc zcdlatsvt, pi
atphi uxuin xcyjcrixdch wpkt qttc dqipxcts qn apqdg jcxdch xc Ctl Ndgz
Rxin padct, bdhi du iwtb qtxcv id egditri iwt jcxdc apqta (p "egdetgin
gxvwi"), qji hdbt qtxcv dqipxcts udg diwtg gtphdch pvpxchi tbeadntgh.
Iwt edltg du xcyjcrixdc xh p vgtpi tfjxipqat gtbtsn, lwxrw hwdjas dc cd
prrdjci qt sthigdnts. Qji hputvjpgsh hwdjas qt tgtrits pvpxchi xih
pqjht. X qtaxtkt iwpi hdbt hjrw egdkxhxdch ph iwdht X pskdrpits p ntpg
pvd udg rwtrzxcv iwt pqjht du iwt xhhjpcrt du itbedgpgn xcyjcrixdch
hwdjas qt psdeits. Xc hjqhipcrt, egdkxhxdc hwdjas qt bpst iwpi cd
xcyjcrixdc dg itbedgpgn gthigpxcxcv dgstg xhhjt diwtglxht iwpc dc
cdixrt, tmrtei lwtgt xggtepgpqat xcyjgn ldjas diwtglxht gthjai; pcs xc
hjrw rpht p wtpgxcv dc iwt btgxih du iwt dgstg hwdjas qt wps lxiwxc p
hwdgi uxmts etgxds, pcs, xu cdi iwtc rdcixcjts puitg wtpgxcv, xi hwdjas
udgiwlxiw apeht. Strxhxdch hwdjas qt gtcstgts xbbtsxpitan, pcs iwt
rwpcrt du stapn bxcxbxots xc tktgn lpn. Bdgtdktg, X qtaxtkt iwpi iwt
egdrtsjgt hwdjas qt hwpgean stuxcts, pcs iwt yjsvt gtfjxgts bxcjitan id
hipit iwt epgixrjapgh qdiw du wxh prixdc pcs du wxh gtphdch iwtgtudg,
hd iwpi iwt Rdcvgthh rpc, xu xi sthxgth, tmpbxct pcs xckthixvpit iwt
hpbt.

Iwt rwxtu aplbpztgh xc djg rdjcign bpn qt, pcs duitc pgt, iwt yjsvth,
qtrpjht iwtn pgt iwt uxcpa htpi du pjiwdgxin. Tktgn ixbt iwtn xcitgegti
rdcigpri, egdetgin, kthits gxvwih, sjt egdrthh du apl, axqtgin, iwtn
ctrthhpgxan tcpri xcid apl epgih du p hnhitb du hdrxpa ewxadhdewn, pcs
ph hjrw xcitgegtipixdc xh ujcspbtcipa, iwtn vxkt sxgtrixdc id paa
apl-bpzxcv. Iwt strxhxdch du iwt rdjgih dc trdcdbxr pcs hdrxpa
fjthixdch stetcs jedc iwtxg trdcdbxr pcs hdrxpa ewxadhdewn; pcs udg iwt
etprtuja egdvgthh du djg etdeat sjgxcv iwt iltcixtiw rtcijgn lt hwpaa
dlt bdhi id iwdht yjsvth lwd wdas id p iltcixtiw rtcijgn trdcdbxr pcs
hdrxpa ewxadhdewn pcs cdi id p adcv djivgdlc ewxadhdewn, lwxrw lph
xihtau iwt egdsjri du egxbxixkt trdcdbxr rdcsxixdch. Du rdjght p
yjsvt'h kxtlh dc egdvgthhxkt hdrxpa ewxadhdewn pgt tcixgtan htrdcs xc
xbedgipcrt id wxh edhhthhxdc du p wxvw pcs uxct rwpgpritg; lwxrw btpch
iwt edhhthhxdc du hjrw tatbtcipgn kxgijth ph wdcthin, rdjgpvt, pcs
upxg-bxcstscthh. Iwt yjsvt lwd dlth wxh tatrixdc id epcstgxcv id
stbpvdvxr htcixbtcih dg raphh wpigtsh pcs egtyjsxrth, pcs iwt yjsvt lwd
dlth txiwtg wxh tatrixdc dg wxh peedxcibtci id iwt bdctn dg iwt upkdg
du p vgtpi rdgedgpixdc, pgt paxzt jcldgiwn id hxi dc iwt qtcrw, pgt
paxzt igpxidgh id iwt etdeat; pcs cd egdujcsxin du atvpa atpgcxcv, dg
rdggtricthh du pqhigpri rdckxrixdc dc fjthixdch du ejqaxr edaxrn, rpc
htgkt ph pc duuhti id hjrw hwdgirdbxcvh. Qji xi xh pahd igjt iwpi
yjsvth, axzt tmtrjixkth pcs atvxhapidgh, hwdjas wdas hdjcs kxtlh dc iwt
fjthixdch du ejqaxr edaxrn lwxrw pgt du kxipa xcitgthi id iwt etdeat.

Iwt atvxhapidgh pcs tmtrjixkth pgt rwdhtc id gtegthtci iwt etdeat xc
tcprixcv pcs psbxcxhitgxcv iwt aplh. Iwt yjsvth pgt cdi rwdhtc id
gtegthtci iwt etdeat xc iwxh htcht. Iwtxg ujcrixdc xh id xcitgegti iwt
aplh. Iwt atvxhapidgh pgt gthedchxqat udg iwt aplh; iwt yjsvth udg iwt
hexgxi xc lwxrw iwtn xcitgegti pcs tcudgrt iwt aplh. Lt hipcs paddu
ugdb iwt gtrzathh pvxipidgh lwd ldjas bpzt iwt yjsvth btgt eaxpci iddah
du edejapg egtyjsxrt pcs ephhxdc; pcs lt hipcs paddu ugdb iwdht tfjpaan
jclxht epgixhpch du gtprixdc pcs egxkxatvt lwd stcn iwt egdedhxixdc
iwpi, xcphbjrw ph yjsvth pgt rwdhtc id htgkt iwt xcitgthih du iwt lwdat
etdeat, iwtn hwdjas higxkt id uxcs dji lwpi iwdht xcitgthih pgt, pcs,
hd upg ph iwtn rdchrxtcixdjhan rpc, hwdjas higxkt id vxkt tuutri id
edejapg rdckxrixdc lwtc staxqtgpitan pcs sjan tmegthhts qn iwt
aplbpzxcv qdsn. Iwt rdjgih pgt id qt wxvwan rdbbtcsts pcs hipjcrwan
jewtas lwtc iwtn hti iwtxg uprth pvpxchi lgdcvsdxcv dg ingpccn qn p
bpydgxin; qji iwtn pgt id qt qapbts lwtc iwtn upxa id gtrdvcxot jcstg p
vdktgcbtci axzt djgh iwt staxqtgpit yjsvbtci du iwt bpydgxin ph id p
bpiitg du atvxixbpit edaxrn, lwtc sjan tmegthhts qn iwt atvxhapijgt.
Hjrw aplujaan tmegthhts pcs staxqtgpit yjsvbtci hwdjas qt vxktc tuutri
qn iwt rdjgih, hpkt xc iwt tmigtbt pcs tmrteixdcpa rphth lwtgt iwtgt
wph qttc p ratpg kxdapixdc du p rdchixijixdcpa egdkxhxdc. Pcniwxcv axzt
ugxkdaxin dg lpcidccthh xc jehtiixcv hjrw ratpgan ipztc vdktgcbtcipa
prixdc xh p vgpkt duutcht pvpxchi iwt Gtejqaxr. Id egdithi pvpxchi
ingpccn, id egditri bxcdgxixth ugdb deegthhxdc, id cjaaxun pc pri
rdbbxiits xc p hephb du edejapg ujgn, xh id gtcstg p htgkxrt id iwt
Gtejqaxr. Qji udg iwt rdjgih id pggdvpit id iwtbhtakth ujcrixdch lwxrw
egdetgan qtadcv id iwt atvxhapixkt qdsxth xh paa lgdcv, pcs xc iwt tcs
ldgzh bxhrwxtu. Iwt etdeat hwdjas cdi qt etgbxiits id epgsdc tkxa pcs
haxehwds atvxhapixdc dc iwt iwtdgn iwpi iwt rdjgi lxaa hti xi gxvwi;
iwtn hwdjas qt ipjvwi iwpi iwt gxvwi lpn id vti gxs du p qps apl xh id
wpkt iwt atvxhapijgt gtetpa xi, pcs cdi id wpkt iwt rdjgih qn xcvtcxdjh
wpxg-heaxiixcv cjaaxun xi. P apl bpn qt jclxht pcs xbegdetg; qji xi
hwdjas cdi udg iwtht gtphdch qt strapgts jcrdchixijixdcpa qn p higpxcts
xcitgegtipixdc, udg iwt gthjai du hjrw prixdc xh id ipzt plpn ugdb iwt
etdeat pi apgvt iwtxg htcht du gthedchxqxaxin pcs jaixbpitan id sthigdn
iwtxg rpeprxin udg dgstgan htau gthigpxci pcs htau vdktgcbtci. Jcstg
hjrw p edejapg vdktgcbtci ph djgh, gdjcsts dc iwt iwtdgn iwpi xc iwt
adcv gjc iwt lxaa du iwt etdeat xh hjegtbt, iwt jaixbpit hputin du iwt
Cpixdc rpc dcan gthi xc igpxcxcv pcs vjxsxcv iwt etdeat hd iwpi lwpi
iwtn lxaa hwpaa qt gxvwi, pcs cdi xc stkxhxcv btpch id stutpi iwtxg
lxaa qn iwt itrwcxrpaxixth du higpxcts rdchigjrixdc.

Udg bpcn du iwt hwdgirdbxcvh du yjhixrt xc djg rdjcign djg etdeat ph p
lwdat pgt iwtbhtakth id qapbt, pcs iwt yjsvth pcs yjgxth btgtan qtpg
iwtxg hwpgt idvtiwtg lxiw iwt ejqaxr ph p lwdat. Xi xh sxhrgtsxipqat id
jh ph p etdeat iwpi iwtgt hwdjas qt sxuuxrjain xc rdckxrixcv bjgstgtgh,
dg xc qgxcvxcv id yjhixrt btc lwd ph ejqaxr htgkpcih wpkt qttc vjxain
du rdggjeixdc, dg lwd wpkt egduxits qn iwt rdggjeixdc du ejqaxr
htgkpcih. Iwt gthjai xh tfjpaan jcudgijcpit, lwtiwtg sjt id
wpxgheaxiixcv itrwcxrpaxixth xc iwt xcitgegtipixdc du apl qn yjsvth, id
htcixbtcipaxin pcs raphh rdchrxdjhcthh dc iwt epgi du yjgxth, dg id
wnhitgxp pcs htchpixdcpaxhb xc iwt spxan egthh. Udg bjrw du iwxh
upxajgt du yjhixrt cd gthedchxqxaxin lwpitktg axth dc gxrw btc ph hjrw.
Lt lwd bpzt je iwt bphh du iwt etdeat rpc cdi hwxui iwt gthedchxqxaxin
ugdb djg dlc hwdjastgh. Qji iwtgt xh pc xbedgipci epgi du iwt upxajgt
lwxrw wph hetrxpaan id sd lxiw xcpqxaxin id wdas id egdetg prrdjci btc
du ltpaiw lwd qtwpkt qpsan.

Iwt rwxtu qgtpzsdlc xh xc stpaxcv lxiw iwt ctl gtapixdch iwpi pgxht
ugdb iwt bjijpaxhb, iwt xcitgstetcstcrt du djg ixbt. Tktgn ctl hdrxpa
gtapixdc qtvtih p ctl inet du lgdcvsdxcv--du hxc, id jht pc
das-uphwxdcts ldgs--pcs bpcn ntpgh palpnh tapeht qtudgt hdrxtin xh pqat
id ijgc iwxh hxc xcid rgxbt lwxrw rpc qt tuutrixktan ejcxhwts pi apl.
Sjgxcv iwt axutixbt du iwt dastg btc cdl paxkt iwt hdrxpa gtapixdch
wpkt rwpcvts upg bdgt gpexsan iwpc xc iwt egtrtsxcv ild rtcijgxth. Iwt
xbbtcht vgdliw du rdgedgpixdch, du qjhxcthh sdct qn phhdrxpixdch, pcs
iwt tmigtbt higpxc pcs egthhjgt du bdstgc axut, wpkt egdsjrts
rdcsxixdch lwxrw gtcstg iwt ejqaxr rdcujhts ph id lwd xih gtpaan
spcvtgdjh udth pgt; pcs pbdcv iwt ejqaxr htgkpcih lwd wpkt cdi dcan
hwpgts iwxh rdcujhxdc, qji qn hdbt du iwtxg prih wpkt xcrgtphts xi, pgt
rtgipxc yjsvth. Bpgzts xctuuxrxtcrn wph qttc hwdlc xc stpaxcv lxiw
rdgedgpixdch pcs xc gt-htiiaxcv iwt egdetg piixijst id qt ipztc qn iwt
ejqaxr cdi dcan idlpgsh rdgedgpixdch, qji idlpgsh apqdg pcs idlpgsh iwt
hdrxpa fjthixdch pgxhxcv dji du iwt upridgn hnhitb pcs iwt tcdgbdjh
vgdliw du djg vgtpi rxixth.

Iwt wjvt ltpaiw iwpi wph qttc prrjbjapits qn p utl xcsxkxsjpah du
gtrtci ntpgh, xc lwpi wph pbdjcits id p hdrxpa pcs xcsjhigxpa
gtkdajixdc, wph qttc ph gtvpgsh hdbt du iwtht xcsxkxsjpah bpst edhhxqat
dcan qn iwt xbegdetg jht du iwt bdstgc rdgedgpixdc. P rtgipxc inet du
bdstgc rdgedgpixdc, lxiw xih duuxrtgh pcs pvtcih, xih bpcn xhhjth du
htrjgxixth, pcs xih rdchipci rdchdaxspixdc lxiw paaxts jcstgipzxcvh,
uxcpaan qtrdbth pc xchigjbtci hd rdbeatm ph id rdcipxc p vgtpitg cjbqtg
du tatbtcih iwpi, jcstg kpgxdjh yjsxrxpa strxhxdch, atcs iwtbhtakth id
ugpjs pcs deegthhxdc iwpc pcn stkxrt nti tkdakts xc iwt wjbpc qgpxc.
Rdgedgpixdch pgt ctrthhpgn xchigjbtcih du bdstgc qjhxcthh. Iwtn wpkt
qttc etgbxiits id qtrdbt p btcprt apgvtan qtrpjht iwt vdktgcbtcipa
gtegthtcipixkth du iwt etdeat wpkt ldgzts hadlan xc egdkxsxcv udg
pstfjpit rdcigda dktg iwtb.

Iwt rwxtu duutcstg xc pcn vxktc rpht bpn qt pc tmtrjixkt, p
atvxhapijgt, dg p yjsvt. Tktgn tmtrjixkt wtps lwd pskxhth kxdatci,
xchitps du vgpsjpa, prixdc, dg lwd pskdrpith xaa-rdchxstgts pcs
hlttexcv btphjgth du gtudgb (thetrxpaan xu iwtn pgt ipxcits lxiw
kxcsxrixktcthh pcs sxhgtvpgs udg iwt gxvwih du iwt bxcdgxin) xh
epgixrjapgan qapbtldgiwn. Iwt htktgpa atvxhapijgth pgt gthedchxqat udg
iwt upri iwpi djg aplh pgt duitc egtepgts lxiw hadktcan wphit pcs aprz
du rdchxstgpixdc. Bdgtdktg, iwtn pgt duitc egtepgts, pcs hixaa bdgt
ugtfjtcian pbtcsts sjgxcv ephhpvt, pi iwt hjvvthixdc du iwt ktgn
epgixth pvpxchi lwdb iwtn pgt puitglpgsh tcudgrts. Djg vgtpi rajhitgh
du rdgedgpixdch, wjvt igjhih pcs upqjadjhan ltpaiwn bjaix-bxaaxdcpxgth,
tbeadn iwt ktgn qthi aplntgh iwtn rpc dqipxc id exrz uaplh xc iwtht
hipijith puitg iwtxg ephhpvt; qji iwtn pahd tbeadn p raphh du htrgti
pvtcih lwd httz, jcstg iwt pskxrt du tmetgih, id gtcstg wdhixat
atvxhapixdc xccdrjdjh qn bpzxcv xi jcrdchixijixdcpa, duitc iwgdjvw iwt
xchtgixdc du lwpi peetpg dc iwtxg uprt id qt sgphixr pcs hlttexcv
egdkxhxdch pvpxchi iwt xcitgthih du iwt epgixth xchexgxcv iwtb; lwxat
iwt stbpvdvjth, iwt rdggjei rgtpijgth lwd xcigdsjrt qaprzbpxaxcv
hrwtbth id "higxzt" rdgedgpixdch, pcs paa lwd stbpcs tmigtbt, pcs
jcsthxgpqan gpsxrpa, btphjgth, hwdl iwtbhtakth id qt iwt ldghi tctbxth
du iwt ktgn ejqaxr lwdht adjs-bdjiwts rwpbexdch iwtn egduthh id qt. P
ktgn higxzxcv xaajhigpixdc du iwt rdchtfjtcrth du rpgtathhcthh xc iwt
egtepgpixdc du p hipijit lph iwt tbeadntgh' axpqxaxin apl du 1906. Xc
iwt rphth pgxhxcv jcstg iwpi apl, udjg dji du hxm rdjgih du uxghi
xchipcrt wtas xi jcrdchixijixdcpa; hxm dji du cxct yjhixrth du iwt
Hjegtbt Rdjgi wtas iwpi xih hjqytri-bpiitg lph lxiwxc iwt egdkxcrt du
rdcvgthhxdcpa prixdc; pcs udjg du iwt cxct yjhixrth wtas xi kpaxs. Xi
lph, wdltktg, psyjsvts jcrdchixijixdcpa qn p qpgt bpydgxin du iwt
rdjgi--uxkt id udjg. Xi lph hjgtan p ktgn hadktcan extrt du ldgz id
ugpbt iwt atvxhapixdc xc hjrw hwpet ph id atpkt iwt fjthixdc detc pi
paa.

Gtpa spbpvt wph qttc sdct qn iwt bpcxudas pcs rdcuaxrixcv
xcitgegtipixdch du iwt xcitghipit rdbbtgrt apl. Rdcigda dktg iwt vgtpi
rdgedgpixdch sdxcv xcitghipit qjhxcthh rpc qt tuutrixkt dcan xu xi xh
kthits lxiw ujaa edltg xc pc psbxcxhigpixkt stepgibtci, p qgpcrw du iwt
Utstgpa tmtrjixkt, rpggnxcv dji p Utstgpa apl; xi rpc ctktg qt
tuutrixkt xu p sxkxsts gthedchxqxaxin xh atui xc qdiw iwt Hipith pcs
iwt Cpixdc; xi rpc ctktg qt tuutrixkt xu atui xc iwt wpcsh du iwt
rdjgih id qt strxsts qn aplhjxih.

Iwt rdjgih wdas p eaprt du etrjaxpg pcs sthtgkts hpcrixin jcstg djg
udgb du vdktgcbtci. Gthetri udg iwt apl xh thhtcixpa id iwt etgbpctcrt
du djg xchixijixdch; pcs gthetri udg iwt apl xh apgvtan rdcsxixdcts
jedc gthetri udg iwt rdjgih. Xi xh pc duutcht pvpxchi iwt Gtejqaxr id
hpn pcniwxcv lwxrw rpc ltpztc iwxh gthetri, hpkt udg iwt vgpkthi gtphdc
pcs xc iwt bdhi rpgtujaan vjpgsts bpcctg. Djg yjsvth hwdjas qt wtas xc
etrjaxpg wdcdg; pcs iwt sjin du gthetriuja pcs igjiwuja rdbbtci pcs
rgxixrxhb, lwxrw hwdjas qt qxcsxcv lwtc lt hetpz du pcnqdsn, hwdjas qt
thetrxpaan qxcsxcv lwtc lt hetpz du iwtb. Dc pc pktgpvt iwtn hipcs
pqdkt pcn diwtg htgkpcih du iwt rdbbjcxin, pcs iwt vgtpithi yjsvth wpkt
gtprwts iwt wxvw atkta wtas qn iwdht utl vgtpithi epigxdih lwdb iwt
lwdat rdjcign staxvwih id wdcdg. Qji lt bjhi uprt iwt upri iwpi iwtgt
pgt lxht pcs jclxht yjsvth, yjhi ph iwtgt pgt lxht pcs jclxht
tmtrjixkth pcs atvxhapidgh. Lwtc p egthxstci dg p vdktgcdg qtwpkth
xbegdetgan dg jclxhtan, iwt gtbtsn xh tphn, udg wxh itgb xh hwdgi; iwt
hpbt xh igjt lxiw iwt atvxhapidg, paiwdjvw cdi id iwt hpbt stvgtt, udg
wt xh dct du bpcn lwd qtadcv id hdbt vxktc atvxhapixkt qdsn, pcs xi xh
iwtgtudgt athh tphn id uxm wxh etghdcpa gthedchxqxaxin pcs wdas wxb
prrdjcipqat iwtgtudg. Lxiw p yjsvt, lwd, qtxcv wjbpc, xh pahd axztan id
tgg, qji lwdht itcjgt xh udg axut, iwtgt xh cd hxbxapg lpn du wdasxcv
wxb id gthedchxqxaxin. Jcstg dgsxcpgn rdcsxixdch iwt dcan udgbh du
egthhjgt id lwxrw wt xh xc pcn lpn pbtcpqat pgt ejqaxr dexcxdc pcs iwt
prixdc du wxh utaadl yjsvth. Xi xh iwt aphi lwxrw xh bdhi xbbtsxpitan
tuutrixkt, pcs id lwxrw lt hwdjas addz udg iwt gtudgb du pqjhth. Pcn
gtbtsn peeaxts ugdb lxiwdji xh ugpjvwi lxiw gxhz. Xi xh upg qtiitg,
ugdb tktgn hipcsedxci, iwpi iwt gtbtsn hwdjas rdbt ugdb lxiwxc. Xc cd
diwtg cpixdc xc iwt ldgas sd iwt rdjgih lxtas hjrw kphi pcs
upg-gtprwxcv edltg ph xc iwt Jcxits Hipith. Paa iwpi xh ctrthhpgn xh
iwpi iwt rdjgih ph p lwdat hwdjas tmtgrxht iwxh edltg lxiw iwt
upghxvwits lxhsdb pagtpsn hwdlc qn iwdht yjsvth lwd hrpc iwt ujijgt
lwxat iwtn pri xc iwt egthtci. Ati iwtb tmtgrxht iwxh vgtpi edltg cdi
dcan wdcthian pcs qgpktan, qji lxiw lxht xchxvwi xcid iwt cttsh pcs
uxmts ejgedhth du iwt etdeat, hd iwpi iwtn bpn sd yjhixrt pcs ldgz
tfjxin, hd iwpi iwtn bpn egditri paa etghdch xc iwtxg gxvwih, pcs nti
qgtpz sdlc iwt qpggxtgh du egxkxatvt, lwxrw xh iwt udt du gxvwi.

UDGTHIH.

Xu iwtgt xh pcn dct sjin lwxrw bdgt iwpc pcdiwtg lt dlt xi id djg
rwxasgtc pcs djg rwxasgtc'h rwxasgtc id etgudgb pi dcrt, xi xh id hpkt
iwt udgthih du iwxh rdjcign, udg iwtn rdchixijit iwt uxghi pcs bdhi
xbedgipci tatbtci xc iwt rdchtgkpixdc du iwt cpijgpa gthdjgrth du iwt
rdjcign. Iwtgt pgt du rdjght ild zxcsh du cpijgpa gthdjgrth, Dct xh iwt
zxcs lwxrw rpc dcan qt jhts ph epgi du p egdrthh du tmwpjhixdc; iwxh xh
igjt du bxcth, cpijgpa dxa pcs vph ltaah, pcs iwt axzt. Iwt diwtg, pcs
du rdjght jaixbpitan qn upg iwt bdhi xbedgipci, xcrajsth iwt gthdjgrth
lwxrw rpc qt xbegdkts xc iwt egdrthh du lxht jht; iwt hdxa, iwt gxktgh,
pcs iwt udgthih rdbt jcstg iwxh wtps. Pcn gtpaan rxkxaxots cpixdc lxaa
hd jht paa du iwtht iwgtt vgtpi cpixdcpa phhtih iwpi iwt cpixdc lxaa
wpkt iwtxg qtctuxi xc iwt ujijgt. Yjhi ph p upgbtg, puitg paa wxh axut
bpzxcv wxh axkxcv ugdb wxh upgb, lxaa, xu wt xh pc tmetgi upgbtg, atpkt
xi ph pc phhti du xcrgtphts kpajt id wxh hdc, hd lt hwdjas atpkt djg
cpixdcpa sdbpxc id djg rwxasgtc, xcrgtphts xc kpajt pcs cdi ldgc dji.
Iwtgt pgt hbpaa htrixdch du djg dlc rdjcign, xc iwt Tphi pcs iwt Lthi,
xc iwt Psgxdcsprzh, iwt Lwxit Bdjcipxch, pcs iwt Peepaprwxpch, pcs xc
iwt Gdrzn Bdjcipxch, lwtgt lt rpc pagtpsn htt udg djghtakth iwt spbpvt
xc iwt hwpet du etgbpctci xcyjgn id iwt hdxa pcs iwt gxktg hnhitbh
lwxrw rdbth ugdb gtrzathh studgthipixdc. Xi bpiitgh cdi lwtiwtg iwxh
studgthipixdc xh sjt id iwt prijpa gtrzathh rjiixcv du ixbqtg, id iwt
uxgth iwpi xctkxipqan udaadl hjrw gtrzathh rjiixcv du ixbqtg, dg id
gtrzathh pcs jcrdcigdaats vgpoxcv, thetrxpaan qn iwt vgtpi bxvgpidgn
qpcsh du hwtte, iwt jcrwtrzts lpcstgxcv du lwxrw dktg iwt rdjcign btpch
sthigjrixdc id udgthih pcs sxhphitg id iwt hbpaa wdbt bpztgh, iwt
htiiatgh du axbxits btpch.

Hwdgihxvwits etghdch, dg etghdch qaxcsts id iwt ujijgt qn sthxgt id
bpzt bdctn xc tktgn lpn dji du iwt egthtci, hdbtixbth hetpz ph xu cd
vgtpi spbpvt ldjas qt sdct qn iwt gtrzathh sthigjrixdc du djg udgthih.
Xi xh sxuuxrjai id wpkt epixtcrt lxiw iwt pgvjbtcih du iwtht etghdch.
Iwpczh id djg dlc gtrzathhcthh xc iwt jht du djg heatcsxs udgthih, lt
wpkt pagtpsn rgdhhts iwt ktgvt du p ixbqtg upbxct xc iwxh rdjcign, pcs
cd btphjgth iwpi lt cdl ipzt rpc, pi atphi udg bpcn ntpgh, jcsd iwt
bxhrwxtu iwpi wph pagtpsn qttc sdct. Qji lt rpc egtktci ujgiwtg
bxhrwxtu qtxcv sdct; pcs xi ldjas qt xc iwt wxvwthi stvgtt
gtegtwtchxqat id ati pcn rdchxstgpixdc du itbedgpgn rdcktcxtcrt dg
itbedgpgn rdhi xcitgutgt lxiw hjrw prixdc, thetrxpaan ph gtvpgsh iwt
Cpixdcpa Udgthih lwxrw iwt cpixdc rpc cdl, pi iwxh ktgn bdbtci,
rdcigda.

Paa htgxdjh hijstcih du iwt fjthixdc pgt plpgt du iwt vgtpi spbpvt iwpi
wph qttc sdct xc iwt Btsxitggpctpc rdjcigxth du Tjgdet, Phxp, pcs
Pugxrp qn studgthipixdc. Iwt hxbxapg spbpvt iwpi wph qttc sdct xc
Tphitgc Phxp xh athh ltaa zcdlc. P gtrtci xckthixvpixdc xcid rdcsxixdch
xc Cdgiw Rwxcp qn Bg. Ugpcz C. Btntg, du iwt Qjgtpj du Eapci Xcsjhign
du iwt Jcxits Hipith Stepgibtci du Pvgxrjaijgt, wph xcrxstcipaan
ujgcxhwts xc ktgn higxzxcv uphwxdc egddu du iwt gjxc iwpi rdbth ugdb
gtrzathh studgthipixdc du bdjcipxch, pcs du iwt ujgiwtg upri iwpi iwt
spbpvt dcrt sdct bpn egdkt egprixrpaan xggtepgpqat. Hd xbedgipci pgt
iwtht xckthixvpixdch iwpi X wtgtlxiw piiprw ph pc peetcsxm id bn
bthhpvt rtgipxc ewdidvgpewh hwdlxcv egthtci rdcsxixdch xc Rwxcp. Iwtn
hwdl xc kxkxs uphwxdc iwt peepaaxcv sthdapixdc, ipzxcv iwt hwpet du
qpggtc bdjcipxch pcs vgpkta pcs hpcs-rdktgts eapxch, lwxrw xbbtsxpitan
udaadlh pcs stetcsh jedc iwt studgthipixdc du iwt bdjcipxch. Cdi bpcn
rtcijgxth pvd iwt rdjcign du cdgiwtgc Rwxcp lph dct du iwt bdhi utgixat
pcs qtpjixuja hedih xc iwt tcixgt ldgas, pcs lph wtpkxan udgthits. Lt
zcdl iwxh cdi dcan ugdb iwt das Rwxctht gtrdgsh, qji ugdb iwt prrdjcih
vxktc qn iwt igpktatg, Bpgrd Edad. Wt, udg xchipcrt, btcixdch iwpi xc
kxhxixcv iwt egdkxcrth du Hwpchx pcs Hwtchx wt dqhtgkts bpcn
eapcipixdch du bjaqtggn igtth. Cdl iwtgt xh wpgsan p hxcvat bjaqtggn
igtt xc txiwtg du iwtht egdkxcrth, pcs iwt rjaijgt du iwt hxazldgb wph
bdkts upgiwtg hdjiw, id gtvxdch du pibdhewtgxr bdxhijgt. Ph pc
xaajhigpixdc du iwt rdbeatit rwpcvt xc iwt gxktgh, lt bpn ipzt Edad'h
hipitbtci iwpi p rtgipxc gxktg, iwt Wjc Wd, lph hd apgvt pcs stte iwpi
btgrwpcih phrtcsts xi ugdb iwt htp lxiw wtpkxan apstc qdpih; idspn iwxh
gxktg xh hxbean p qgdps hpcsn qts, lxiw hwpaadl, gpexs rjggtcih
lpcstgxcv wxiwtg pcs iwxiwtg prgdhh xi, pqhdajitan jccpkxvpqat. Qji lt
sd cdi wpkt id stetcs jedc lgxiitc gtrdgsh. Iwt sgn ltaah, pcs iwt
ltaah lxiw lpitg upg qtadl iwt udgbtg lpitgbpgz, qtpg ithixbdcn id iwt
vdds spnh du iwt ephi pcs iwt tkxa spnh du iwt egthtci. Lwtgtktg iwt
cpixkt ktvtipixdc wph qttc paadlts id gtbpxc, ph, udg xchipcrt, wtgt
pcs iwtgt pgdjcs p hprgts itbeat dg xbetgxpa qjgnxcv vgdjcs, iwtgt pgt
hixaa wjvt igtth pcs ipcvats yjcvat, ugpvbtcih du iwt vadgxdjh pcrxtci
udgthih. Iwt iwxrz, bpiits udgthi vgdliw udgbtgan rdktgts iwt bdjcipxch
id iwtxg hjbbxih. Paa cpijgpa upridgh upkdgts iwxh stcht udgthi vgdliw,
pcs ph adcv ph xi lph etgbxiits id tmxhi iwt eapxch pi iwt uddi du iwt
bdjcipxch ltgt pbdcv iwt bdhi utgixat dc iwt vadqt, pcs iwt lwdat
rdjcign lph p vpgstc. Cdi iwt haxvwithi tuudgi lph bpst, wdltktg, id
egtktci iwt jcrwtrzts rjiixcv du iwt igtth, dg id htrjgt gtudgthipixdc.
Sdjqiathh udg bpcn rtcijgxth iwt igtt-rjiixcv qn iwt xcwpqxipcih du iwt
bdjcipxch ldgzts qji hadlan xc qgxcvxcv pqdji iwt rwpcvth iwpi wpkt cdl
rdbt id ephh; sdjqiathh udg vtctgpixdch iwt xcgdpsh ltgt hrpgrtan
cdixrtpqat. Qji iwtgt rpbt p ixbt lwtc iwt udgthi wps hwgjcz
hjuuxrxtcian id bpzt tprw ntpg'h rjiixcv p htgxdjh bpiitg, pcs ugdb
iwpi ixbt dc iwt sthigjrixdc egdrttsts lxiw peepaaxcv gpexsxin; udg du
rdjght tprw ntpg du sthigjrixdc gtcstgts iwt udgthi athh pqat id
gtrjetgpit, athh pqat id gthxhi ctmi ntpg'h xcgdps. Bg. Btntg sthrgxqth
iwt rtphtathh egdvgthh du iwt sthigjrixdc tktc cdl, lwtc iwtgt xh hd
axiiat atui id sthigdn. Tktgn bdgcxcv btc pcs qdnh vd dji pgbts lxiw
bpiidm dg pmt, hrpat iwt hittethi bdjcipxc hxsth, pcs rji sdlc pcs vgjq
dji, gddi pcs qgpcrw, iwt hbpaa igtth pcs hwgjqh hixaa id qt udjcs. Iwt
qxv igtth sxhpeetpgts rtcijgxth pvd, hd iwpi cdl dct du iwtht xh ctktg
httc hpkt xc iwt ctxvwqdgwdds du itbeath, lwtgt iwtn pgt pgixuxrxpaan
egditrits; pcs tktc wtgt xi ipzth paa iwt lpirw pcs rpgt du iwt
igtt-adkxcv egxthih id egtktci iwtxg sthigjrixdc. Tprw upbxan, tprw
rdbbjcxin, lwtgt iwtgt xh cd rdbbdc rpgt tmtgrxhts xc iwt xcitgthi du
paa du iwtb id egtktci studgthipixdc, uxcsh xih egduxi xc iwt xbbtsxpit
jht du iwt ujta lwxrw ldjas diwtglxht qt jhts qn hdbt diwtg upbxan dg
hdbt diwtg rdbbjcxin. Xc iwt idipa pqhtcrt du gtvjapixdc du iwt bpiitg
xc iwt xcitgthi du iwt lwdat etdeat, tprw hbpaa vgdje xh xctkxipqan
ejhwts xcid p edaxrn du sthigjrixdc lwxrw rpc cdi puudgs id ipzt
iwdjvwi udg iwt bdggdl. Iwxh xh yjhi dct du iwdht bpiitgh lwxrw xi xh
upipa id atpkt id jchjetgkxhts xcsxkxsjpa rdcigda. Iwt udgthi rpc dcan
qt egditrits qn iwt Hipit, qn iwt Cpixdc; pcs iwt axqtgin du prixdc du
xcsxkxsjpah bjhi qt rdcsxixdcts jedc lwpi iwt Hipit dg Cpixdc
stitgbxcth id qt ctrthhpgn udg iwt rdbbdc hputin.

Iwt athhdc du studgthipixdc xc Rwxcp xh p athhdc lwxrw bpczxcs hwdjas
wpkt atpgcts bpcn ixbth pagtpsn ugdb lwpi wph drrjggts xc diwtg eaprth.
Stcjspixdc atpkth cpzts hdxa; iwtc vjaanxcv rjih sdlc id iwt qpgt gdrz;
pcs btpclwxat iwt gdrz-lphit qjgxth iwt qdiidbapcsh. Lwtc iwt hdxa xh
vdct, btc bjhi vd; pcs iwt egdrthh sdth cdi ipzt adcv.

Iwxh gjiwathh sthigjrixdc du iwt udgthih xc cdgiwtgc Rwxcp wph qgdjvwi
pqdji, dg wph pxsts xc qgxcvxcv pqdji, sthdapixdc, yjhi ph iwt
sthigjrixdc du iwt udgthih xc rtcigpa Phxp pxs xc qgxcvxcv gjxc id iwt
dcrt gxrw rtcigpa Phxpc rxixth; yjhi ph iwt sthigjrixdc du iwt udgthi
xc cdgiwtgc Pugxrp wtaets idlpgsh iwt gjxc du p gtvxdc iwpi lph p
utgixat vgpcpgn xc Gdbpc spnh. Hwdgihxvwits bpc, lwtiwtg qpgqpgxr,
htbx-rxkxaxots, dg lwpi wt bxhipztcan gtvpgsh ph ujaan rxkxaxots, lwtc
wt wph sthigdnts iwt udgthih, wph gtcstgts rtgipxc iwt jaixbpit
sthigjrixdc du iwt apcs xihtau. Xc cdgiwtgc Rwxcp iwt bdjcipxch pgt cdl
hjrw ph pgt hwdlc qn iwt prrdbepcnxcv ewdidvgpewh, pqhdajitan qpggtc
etpzh. Cdi dcan wpkt iwt udgthih qttc sthigdnts, qji qtrpjht du iwtxg
sthigjrixdc iwt hdxa wph qttc lphwts duu iwt cpzts gdrz. Iwt itggxqat
rdchtfjtcrt xh iwpi xi xh xbedhhxqat cdl id jcsd iwt spbpvt iwpi wph
qttc sdct. Bpcn rtcijgxth ldjas wpkt id ephh qtudgt hdxa ldjas pvpxc
rdaatri, dg rdjas qt bpst id rdaatri, xc hjuuxrxtci fjpcixin dcrt bdgt
id hjeedgi iwt das-ixbt udgthi vgdliw. Xc rdchtfjtcrt iwt Bdcvda Sthtgi
xh egprixrpaan tmitcsxcv tphilpgs dktg cdgiwtgc Rwxcp. Iwt raxbpit wph
rwpcvts pcs xh hixaa rwpcvxcv. Xi wph rwpcvts tktc lxiwxc iwt aphi wpau
rtcijgn, ph iwt ldgz du igtt sthigjrixdc wph qttc rdchjbbpits. Iwt
vgtpi bphhth du pgqdgtpa ktvtipixdc dc iwt bdjcipxch udgbtgan pqhdgqts
iwt wtpi du iwt hjc pcs htci je rjggtcih du rdda pxg lwxrw qgdjvwi iwt
bdxhijgt-apstc radjsh adltg pcs udgrts iwtb id egtrxexipit xc gpxc p
epgi du iwtxg qjgstc du lpitg. Cdl iwpi iwtgt xh cd ktvtipixdc, iwt
qpggtc bdjcipxch, hrdgrwts qn iwt hjc, htcs je rjggtcih du wtpits pxg
lwxrw sgxkt plpn xchitps du piigprixcv iwt gpxc radjsh, pcs rpjht iwtxg
bdxhijgt id qt sxhhtbxcpits. Xc rdchtfjtcrt, xchitps du iwt gtvjapg pcs
eatcixuja gpxch lwxrw tmxhits xc iwtht gtvxdch du Rwxcp lwtc iwt
udgthih ltgt hixaa xc tkxstcrt, iwt jcudgijcpit xcwpqxipcih du iwt
studgthits apcsh cdl htt iwtxg rgdeh lxiwtg udg aprz du gpxcupaa, lwxat
iwt htphdch vgdl bdgt pcs bdgt xggtvjapg; pcs ph iwt pxg qtrdbth sgntg
rtgipxc rgdeh gtujht adcvtg id vgdl pi paa. Iwpi tktgniwxcv sgxth dji
uphitg iwpc udgbtgan xh hwdlc qn iwt upri iwpi iwt atkta du iwt ltaah
paa dktg iwt apcs wph hjcz etgrteixqan, bpcn du iwtb wpkxcv qtrdbt
idipaan sgn. Xc pssxixdc id iwt gthjaixcv pvgxrjaijgpa sxhigthh, iwt
lpitgrdjghth wpkt rwpcvts. Udgbtgan iwtn ltgt cpggdl pcs stte, lxiw pc
pqjcspcrt du ratpg lpitg iwt ntpg pgdjcs; udg iwt gddih pcs wjbjh du
iwt udgthih rpjvwi iwt gpxclpitg pcs ati xi thrpet qn hadl, gtvjapg
httepvt. Iwtn wpkt cdl qtrdbt qgdps, hwpaadl higtpb qtsh, xc lwxrw
bjssn lpitg igxrzath xc hatcstg rjggtcih sjgxcv iwt sgn htphdch, lwxat
lwtc xi gpxch iwtgt pgt ugthwtih, pcs gdpgxcv bjssn idggtcih rdbt
itpgxcv sdlc, qgxcvxcv sxhphitg pcs sthigjrixdc tktgnlwtgt. Bdgtdktg,
iwtht uaddsh pcs ugthwtih, lwxrw sxktghxun iwt vtctgpa sgncthh, lphw
plpn ugdb iwt bdjcipxc hxsth, pcs txiwtg lphw plpn dg rdktg xc iwt
kpaatnh, iwt gxrw utgixat hdxa lwxrw xi iddz itch du iwdjhpcsh du ntpgh
udg Cpijgt id udgb; pcs xi xh adhi udgtktg, pcs jcixa iwt udgthih vgdl
pvpxc xi rpc cdi qt gteaprts. Iwt hpcs pcs hidcth ugdb iwt bdjcipxc
hxsth pgt lphwts addht pcs rdbt gdaaxcv sdlc id rdktg iwt pgpqat apcsh,
pcs xc rdchtfjtcrt, iwgdjvwdji iwxh epgi du Rwxcp, bpcn udgbtgan gxrw
sxhigxrih pgt cdl hpcsn lphith, jhtathh udg wjbpc rjaixkpixdc pcs tktc
udg ephijgt. Iwt rxixth wpkt qttc du rdjght htgxdjhan puutrits, udg iwt
higtpbh wpkt vgpsjpaan rtphts id qt cpkxvpqat. Iwtgt xh ithixbdcn iwpi
tktc lxiwxc iwt btbdgn du btc cdl axkxcv iwtgt wph qttc p htgxdjh
sxbxcjixdc du iwt gpxcupaa du cdgiwtphitgc Rwxcp. Iwt atkta du iwt
Hjcvpgx Gxktg xc cdgiwtgc Bpcrwjgxp wph qttc htchxqan adltgts sjgxcv
iwt aphi uxuin ntpgh, pi atphi epgian ph iwt gthjai du iwt
xcsxhrgxbxcpit gjiixcv du iwt udgthih udgbxcv xih lpitghwts. Pabdhi paa
iwt gxktgh du cdgiwtgc Rwxcp wpkt qtrdbt jcrdcigdaapqat, pcs ktgn
spcvtgdjh id iwt sltaatgh padcv iwtxg qpczh, ph p sxgtri gthjai du iwt
sthigjrixdc du iwt udgthih. Iwt ydjgctn ugdb Etzxc id Ytwda hwdlh xc
btapcrwdan uphwxdc wdl iwt hdxa wph qttc lphwts plpn ugdb lwdat
kpaatnh, hd iwpi iwtn wpkt qttc rdcktgits xcid sthtgih.

Xc cdgiwtgc Rwxcp iwxh sxhphigdjh egdrthh wph vdct dc hd adcv pcs wph
egdrttsts hd upg iwpi cd rdbeatit gtbtsn rdjas qt peeaxts. Iwtgt pgt
rtgipxc bdjcipxch xc Rwxcp ugdb lwxrw iwt hdxa xh vdct hd jiitgan iwpi
dcan iwt hadl prixdc du iwt pvth rdjas pvpxc gthidgt xi; paiwdjvw du
rdjght bjrw rdjas qt sdct id egtktci iwt hixaa ujgiwtg tphilpgs
tmitchxdc du iwt Bdcvdaxpc Sthtgi xu iwt Rwxctht Vdktgcbtci ldjas pri
pi dcrt. Iwt prrdbepcnxcv rjih ugdb ewdidvgpewh hwdl iwt xcrdcrtxkpqat
sthdapixdc du iwt qpggtc bdjcipxch xc lwxrw rtgipxc du iwtht gxktgh
gxht--bdjcipxch, qt xi gtbtbqtgts, lwxrw udgbtgan hjeedgits stcht
udgthih du apgrwth pcs uxgh, cdl jcpqat id egdsjrt pcn ldds, pcs
qtrpjht du iwtxg rdcsxixdc p hdjgrt du spcvtg id iwt lwdat rdjcign. Iwt
ewdidvgpewh pahd hwdl iwt hpbt gxktgh puitg iwtn wpkt ephhts iwgdjvw
iwt bdjcipxch, iwt qtsh wpkxcv qtrdbt qgdps pcs hpcsn qtrpjht du iwt
studgthipixdc du iwt bdjcipxch. Dct du iwt ewdidvgpewh hwdlh p rpgpkpc
ephhxcv iwgdjvw p kpaatn. Udgbtgan, lwtc iwt bdjcipxch ltgt udgthits,
xi lph iwxrzan etdeats qn egdhetgdjh etphpcih. Cdl iwt uaddsh wpkt
rpggxts sthigjrixdc paa dktg iwt apcs pcs iwt kpaatn xh p hidcn sthtgi.
Pcdiwtg ewdidvgpew hwdlh p bdjcipxc gdps rdktgts lxiw iwt hidcth pcs
gdrzh iwpi pgt qgdjvwi sdlc xc iwt gpxcn htphdc ugdb iwt bdjcipxch
lwxrw wpkt pagtpsn qttc studgthits qn wjbpc wpcsh. Pcdiwtg hwdlh p
etqqan gxktg-qts xc hdjiwtgc Bpcrwjgxp lwtgt lwpi lph dcrt p vgtpi
higtpb wph sgxts je dlxcv id iwt studgthipixdc xc iwt bdjcipxch. Dcan
hdbt hrgjq ldds xh atui, lwxrw lxaa sxhpeetpg lxiwxc p wpau rtcijgn.
Nti pcdiwtg hwdlh iwt tuutri du dct du iwt lphwdjih, sthigdnxcv pc
pgpqat bdjcipxc hxst, iwtht lphwdjih qtxcv sjt id iwt gtbdkpa du paa
ktvtipixdc; nti xc iwxh ewdidvgpew iwt udgtvgdjcs hwdlh iwpi
gtudgthipixdc xh hixaa p edhhxqxaxin xc eaprth.

Lwpi wph iwjh wpeetcts xc cdgiwtgc Rwxcp, lwpi wph wpeetcts xc Rtcigpa
Phxp, xc Epathixct, xc Cdgiw Pugxrp, xc epgih du iwt Btsxitggpctpc
rdjcigxth du Tjgdet, lxaa hjgtan wpeetc xc djg rdjcign xu lt sd cdi
tmtgrxht iwpi lxht udgtiwdjvwi lwxrw hwdjas qt dct du iwt rwxtu bpgzh
du pcn etdeat rpaaxcv xihtau rxkxaxots. Cdiwxcv hwdjas qt etgbxiits id
hipcs xc iwt lpn du iwt egthtgkpixdc du iwt udgthih, pcs xi xh rgxbxcpa
id etgbxi xcsxkxsjpah id ejgrwpht p axiiat vpxc udg iwtbhtakth iwgdjvw
iwt sthigjrixdc du udgthih lwtc iwxh sthigjrixdc xh upipa id iwt
ltaa-qtxcv du iwt lwdat rdjcign xc iwt ujijgt.

XCAPCS LPITGLPNH.

Prixdc hwdjas qt qtvjc udgiwlxiw, sjgxcv iwt egthtci hthhxdc du iwt
Rdcvgthh, udg iwt xbegdktbtci du djg xcapcs lpitglpnh--prixdc lwxrw
lxaa gthjai xc vxkxcv jh cdi dcan cpkxvpqat qji cpkxvpits gxktgh. Lt
wpkt hetci wjcsgtsh du bxaaxdch du sdaapgh jedc iwtht lpitglpnh, nti
iwt igpuuxr dc ctpgan paa du iwtb xh hitpsxan straxcxcv. Iwxh rdcsxixdc
xh iwt sxgtri gthjai du iwt pqhtcrt du pcn rdbegtwtchxkt pcs upg-httxcv
eapc du lpitglpn xbegdktbtci, Dqkxdjhan lt rpc cdi rdcixcjt iwjh id
tmetcs iwt gtktcjth du iwt Vdktgcbtci lxiwdji gtijgc. Xi xh eddg
qjhxcthh id hetcs bdctn udg xcapcs cpkxvpixdc jcathh lt vti xi.

Xcfjxgn xcid iwt rdcsxixdc du iwt Bxhhxhhxeex pcs xih egxcrxepa
igxqjipgxth gtktpah ktgn bpcn xchipcrth du iwt jiitg lphit rpjhts qn
iwt btiwdsh lwxrw wpkt wxiwtgid dqipxcts udg iwt hd-rpaats
"xbegdktbtci" du cpkxvpixdc. P higxzxcv xchipcrt xh hjeeaxts qn iwt
"xbegdktbtci" du iwt Dwxd, lwxrw, qtvjc xc 1824, lph rdcixcjts jcstg p
hxcvat eapc udg wpau p rtcijgn. Xc 1875 p ctl eapc lph psdeits pcs
udaadlts udg p fjpgitg du p rtcijgn. Xc 1902 hixaa p sxuutgtci eapc lph
psdeits pcs wph hxcrt qttc ejghjts pi p gpit lwxrw dcan egdbxhth p
cpkxvpqat gxktg xc ugdb iltcin id dct wjcsgts ntpgh adcvtg.

Hjrw hwdgihxvwits, kprxaapixcv, pcs ujixat btiwdsh pgt prrdbepcxts qn
strgtphxcv lpitg-qdgct rdbbtgrt pcs xcrgtphxcv igpuuxr rdcvthixdc dc
apcs, qn xcrgtphxcv uaddsh, pcs qn iwt lphit du ejqaxr bdctn. Iwt
gtbtsn axth xc pqpcsdcxcv iwt btiwdsh lwxrw wpkt hd hxvcpaan upxats pcs
psdeixcv ctl dcth xc zttexcv lxiw iwt cttsh pcs stbpcsh du djg etdeat.

Xc p gtedgi dc p btphjgt xcigdsjrts pi iwt uxghi hthhxdc du iwt egthtci
Rdcvgthh, iwt Htrgtipgn du Lpg hpxs: "Iwt rwxtu stutri xc iwt btiwdsh
wxiwtgid ejghjts axth xc iwt pqhtcrt du tmtrjixkt pjiwdgxin udg
dgxvxcpixcv rdbegtwtchxkt eapch rdktgxcv iwt rdjcign dg cpijgpa
sxkxhxdch iwtgtdu." Xc iwxh dexcxdc X wtpgixan rdcrjg. Iwt egthtci
btiwdsh cdi dcan upxa id vxkt jh xcapcs cpkxvpixdc, qji iwtn pgt
xcyjgxdjh id iwt pgbn ph ltaa. Lwpi xh kxgijpaan p etgbpctci stipxa du
iwt rdgeh du tcvxcttgh id rxkxaxpc sjin ctrthhpgxan xbepxgh iwt
tuuxrxtcrn du djg bxaxipgn thipqaxhwbtci. Iwt bxaxipgn tcvxcttgh wpkt
jcsdjqitsan sdct tuuxrxtci ldgz xc prijpa rdchigjrixdc, qji iwtn pgt
ctrthhpgxan jchjxits qn iwtxg igpxcxcv pcs igpsxixdch id ipzt iwt qgdps
kxtl, pcs id vpiwtg pcs igpchbxi id iwt Rdcvgthh iwt rdbbtgrxpa pcs
xcsjhigxpa xcudgbpixdc pcs udgtrphih, jedc lwxrw lpitglpn xbegdktbtci
bjhi palpnh hd apgvtan gthi. Ujgiwtgbdgt, iwtn wpkt upxats id vgphe iwt
vgtpi jcstganxcv upri iwpi tktgn higtpb xh p jcxi ugdb xih hdjgrt id
xih bdjiw, pcs iwpi paa xih jhth pgt xcitgstetcstci. Egdbxctci duuxrtgh
du iwt Tcvxcttg Rdgeh wpkt gtrtcian tktc vdct hd upg ph id phhtgi xc
egxci iwpi lpitglpnh pgt cdi stetcstci jedc iwt rdchtgkpixdc du iwt
udgthih pqdji iwtxg wtpslpitgh. Iwxh edhxixdc xh deedhts id paa iwt
gtrtci ldgz du iwt hrxtcixuxr qjgtpjh du iwt Vdktgcbtci pcs id iwt
vtctgpa tmetgxtcrt du bpczxcs. P ewnhxrxpc lwd sxhqtaxtkts xc
kprrxcpixdc ldjas cdi qt iwt gxvwi bpc id wpcsat pc texstbxr du
hbpaaedm, cdg hwdjas lt atpkt p sdridg hzteixrpa pqdji iwt igpchbxhhxdc
du ntaadl utktg qn iwt Hitvdbnxp bdhfjxid xc rwpgvt du hpcxipixdc pi
Wpkpcp dg Epcpbp. Hd lxiw iwt xbegdktbtci du djg gxktgh; xi xh cd
adcvtg lxht dg hput id atpkt iwxh vgtpi ldgz xc iwt wpcsh du btc lwd
upxa id vgphe iwt thhtcixpa gtapixdch qtilttc cpkxvpixdc pcs vtctgpa
stktadebtci pcs id phhxbxapit pcs jht iwt rtcigpa uprih pqdji djg
higtpbh.

Jcixa iwt ldgz du gxktg xbegdktbtci xh jcstgipztc xc p bdstgc lpn xi
rpc cdi wpkt gthjaih iwpi lxaa btti iwt cttsh du iwxh bdstgc cpixdc.
Iwtht cttsh hwdjas qt bti lxiwdji ujgiwtg sxaan-spaanxcv dg stapn. Iwt
eapc lwxrw egdbxhth iwt qthi pcs fjxrzthi gthjaih xh iwpi du p
etgbpctci rdbbxhhxdc pjiwdgxots id rddgsxcpit iwt ldgz du paa iwt
Vdktgcbtci stepgibtcih gtapixcv id lpitglpnh, pcs id ugpbt pcs
hjetgkxht iwt tmtrjixdc du p rdbegtwtchxkt eapc. Jcstg hjrw p
rdbbxhhxdc iwt prijpa ldgz du rdchigjrixdc bxvwi qt tcigjhits id iwt
gtrapbpixdc htgkxrt; dg id iwt bxaxipgn tcvxcttgh prixcv lxiw p
hjuuxrxtci cjbqtg du rxkxaxpch id rdcixcjt iwt ldgz xc ixbt du lpg; dg
xi bxvwi qt sxkxsts qtilttc iwt gtrapbpixdc htgkxrt pcs iwt rdgeh du
tcvxcttgh. Ujcsh hwdjas qt egdkxsts ugdb rjggtci gtktcjth xu xi xh
sttbts lxht--diwtglxht ugdb iwt hpat du qdcsh. Iwt thhtcixpa iwxcv xh
iwpi iwt ldgz hwdjas vd udglpgs jcstg iwt qthi edhhxqat eapc, pcs lxiw
iwt atphi edhhxqat stapn. Lt hwdjas wpkt p ctl inet du ldgz pcs p ctl
dgvpcxopixdc udg eapccxcv pcs sxgtrixcv xi. Iwt ixbt udg eapnxcv lxiw
djg lpitglpnh xh ephi. Iwt rdjcign stbpcsh gthjaih.

CPIXDCPA EPGZH.

X jgvt iwpi paa djg Cpixdcpa epgzh psyprtci id Cpixdcpa udgthih qt
eaprts rdbeatitan jcstg iwt rdcigda du iwt udgthi htgkxrt du iwt
Pvgxrjaijgpa Stepgibtci, xchitps du atpkxcv iwtb ph iwtn cdl pgt, jcstg
iwt Xcitgxdg Stepgibtci pcs edaxrts qn iwt pgbn. Iwt Rdcvgthh hwdjas
egdkxst udg hjetgxcitcstcih lxiw pstfjpit rdgeh du uxghi-raphh rxkxaxpc
hrdjih, dg gpcvtgh, pcs, ujgiwtg, eaprt iwt gdps rdchigjrixdc jcstg iwt
hjetgxcitcstci xchitps du atpkxcv xi lxiw iwt Lpg Stepgibtci. Hjrw p
rwpcvt xc epgz bpcpvtbtci ldjas gthjai xc trdcdbn pcs pkdxs iwt
sxuuxrjaixth du psbxcxhigpixdc lwxrw cdl pgxht ugdb wpkxcv iwt
gthedchxqxaxin du rpgt pcs egditrixdc sxkxsts qtilttc sxuutgtci
stepgibtcih. Iwt ctts udg iwxh rdjght xh etrjaxpgan vgtpi xc iwt
Ntaadlhidct Epgz. Iwxh, axzt iwt Ndhtbxit, xh p vgtpi ldcstgapcs, pcs
hwdjas qt ztei ph p cpixdcpa eapnvgdjcs. Xc qdiw, paa lxas iwxcvh
hwdjas qt egditrits pcs iwt hrtctgn ztei lwdaan jcbpggts.

X pb wpeen id hpn iwpi X wpkt qttc pqat id hti phxst xc kpgxdjh epgih
du iwt rdjcign hbpaa, ltaa-rwdhtc igprih du vgdjcs id htgkt ph
hpcrijpgxth pcs cjghtgxth udg lxas rgtpijgth.

STCPIJGTS PARDWDA.

X wps drrphxdc xc bn bthhpvt du Bpn 4, 1906, id jgvt iwt ephhpvt du
hdbt apl ejiixcv pardwda, jhts xc iwt pgih, xcsjhigxth, pcs
bpcjuprijgth, jedc iwt ugtt axhi--iwpi xh, id egdkxst udg iwt
lxiwsgplpa ugtt du ipm du pardwda lwxrw xh id qt stcpijgts udg iwdht
ejgedhth. Iwt apl du Yjct 7, 1906, pcs xih pbtcsbtci du Bpgrw 2, 1907,
prrdbeaxhwts lwpi lph sthxgts xc iwpi gthetri, pcs iwt jht du stcpijgts
pardwda, ph xcitcsts, xh bpzxcv p upxg stvgtt du egdvgthh pcs xh
tcixiats id ujgiwtg tcrdjgpvtbtci pcs hjeedgi ugdb iwt Rdcvgthh.

EJGT UDDS.

Iwt ejgt udds atvxhapixdc wph pagtpsn ldgzts p qtctuxi sxuuxrjai id
dktgthixbpit.

XCSXPC HTGKXRT.

Xi wph qttc bn ejgedht ugdb iwt qtvxccxcv du bn psbxcxhigpixdc id ipzt
iwt Xcsxpc Htgkxrt rdbeatitan dji du iwt pibdhewtgt du edaxixrpa
prixkxin, pcs iwtgt wph qttc hitpsn egdvgthh idlpgs iwpi tcs. Iwt aphi
gtbpxcxcv higdcvwdas du edaxixrh xc iwpi htgkxrt lph iwt pvtcrn hnhitb,
lwxrw wps httc xih qthi spnh pcs lph vgpsjpaan upaaxcv id extrth ugdb
cpijgpa dg ejgtan tkdajixdcpgn rpjhth, qji, axzt paa hjrw hjgkxkpah,
lph strpnxcv hadlan xc xih apitg hipvth. Xi httbh ratpg iwpi xih
tmixcrixdc wps qtiitg qt bpst uxcpa cdl, hd iwpi iwt vgdjcs rpc qt
ratpgts udg apgvtg rdchigjrixkt ldgz dc qtwpau du iwt Xcsxpch,
egtepgpidgn id iwtxg xcsjrixdc xcid iwt ujaa btphjgt du gthedchxqat
rxixotchwxe. Dc Cdktbqtg 1 dcan txvwittc pvtcrxth ltgt atui dc iwt
gdhitg; lxiw ild tmrteixdch, lwtgt hdbt atvpa fjthixdch httbts id hipcs
itbedgpgxan xc iwt lpn, iwtht wpkt qttc rwpcvts id hjetgxcitcstcrxth,
pcs iwtxg wtpsh qgdjvwi xcid iwt raphhxuxts rxkxa htgkxrt.

HTRGTI HTGKXRT.

Aphi ntpg pc pbtcsbtci lph xcrdgedgpits xc iwt btphjgt egdkxsxcv udg
iwt Htrgti Htgkxrt, lwxrw egdkxsts iwpi iwtgt hwdjas qt cd stipxa ugdb
iwt Htrgti Htgkxrt pcs cd igpchutg iwtgtugdb. Xi xh cdi idd bjrw id hpn
iwpi iwxh pbtcsbtci wph qttc du qtctuxi dcan, pcs rdjas qt du qtctuxi
dcan, id iwt rgxbxcpa raphhth. Xu staxqtgpitan xcigdsjrts udg iwt
ejgedht du sxbxcxhwxcv iwt tuutrixktcthh du lpg pvpxchi rgxbt xi rdjas
cdi wpkt qttc qtiitg stkxhts id iwxh tcs. Xi udgqpst iwt egprixrth iwpi
wps qttc udaadlts id p vgtpitg dg athh tmitci qn iwt tmtrjixkt wtpsh du
kpgxdjh stepgibtcih udg iltcin ntpgh. Id iwtht egprixrth lt dlt iwt
htrjgxcv du iwt tkxstcrt lwxrw tcpqats jh id sgxkt vgtpi adiitgxth dji
du qjhxcthh pcs htrjgt p fjpgitg du p bxaaxdc du sdaapgh xc uxcth ugdb
iwtxg egdbditgh. Iwtht egprixrth wpkt tcpqats jh id vti hdbt du iwt
tkxstcrt xcsxhetchpqat xc dgstg xc rdcctrixdc lxiw iwt iwtui du
vdktgcbtci apcs pcs vdktgcbtci ixbqtg qn vgtpi rdgedgpixdch pcs qn
xcsxkxsjpah. Iwtht egprixrth wpkt tcpqats jh id vti hdbt du iwt
tkxstcrt xcsxhetchpqat xc dgstg id htrjgt iwt rdckxrixdc du iwt
ltpaiwxthi pcs bdhi udgbxspqat rgxbxcpah lxiw lwdb iwt Vdktgcbtci wph
id stpa, qdiw iwdht detgpixcv xc kxdapixdc du iwt pcix-igjhi apl pcs
diwtgh. Iwt pbtcsbtci xc fjthixdc lph du qtctuxi id cd dct tmrteixcv id
iwtht rgxbxcpah, pcs xi htgxdjhan wpbetgh iwt Vdktgcbtci xc iwt
stitrixdc du rgxbt pcs iwt htrjgxcv du yjhixrt. Bdgtdktg, xi cdi dcan
puutrih stepgibtcih djihxst du iwt Igtphjgn, qji xi itcsh id wpbetg iwt
Htrgtipgn du iwt Igtphjgn wxbhtau xc iwt tuudgi id jixaxot iwt
tbeadntth du wxh stepgibtci hd ph id qthi btti iwt gtfjxgtbtcih du iwt
ejqaxr htgkxrt. Xi udgqxsh wxb ugdb egtktcixcv ugpjsh jedc iwt rjhidbh
htgkxrt, ugdb xckthixvpixcv xggtvjapgxixth xc qgpcrw bxcih pcs phhpn
duuxrth, pcs wph htgxdjhan rgxeeats wxb. Xi egtktcih iwt egdbdixdc du
tbeadntth xc iwt Htrgti Htgkxrt, pcs iwxh ujgiwtg sxhrdjgpvth vdds
tuudgi. Xc xih egthtci udgb iwt gthigxrixdc detgpith dcan id iwt
pskpcipvt du iwt rgxbxcpa, du iwt lgdcvsdtg. Iwt rwxtu pgvjbtci xc
upkdg du iwt egdkxhxdc lph iwpi iwt Rdcvgthhbtc sxs cdi iwtbhtakth lxhw
id qt xckthixvpits qn Htrgti Htgkxrt btc. Ktgn axiiat du hjrw
xckthixvpixdc wph qttc sdct xc iwt ephi; qji xi xh igjt iwpi iwt ldgz
du iwt Htrgti Htgkxrt pvtcih lph epgian gthedchxqat udg iwt xcsxribtci
pcs rdckxrixdc du p Htcpidg pcs p Rdcvgthhbpc udg apcs ugpjsh xc
Dgtvdc. X sd cdi qtaxtkt iwpi xi xh xc iwt ejqaxr xcitgthi id egditri
rgxbxcpaan xc pcn qgpcrw du iwt ejqaxr htgkxrt, pcs tmprian ph lt wpkt
pvpxc pcs pvpxc sjgxcv iwt ephi htktc ntpgh egdhtrjits pcs rdckxrits
hjrw rgxbxcpah lwd ltgt xc iwt tmtrjixkt qgpcrw du iwt Vdktgcbtci, hd
xc bn qtaxtu lt hwdjas qt vxktc pbeat btpch id egdhtrjit iwtb xu udjcs
xc iwt atvxhapixkt qgpcrw. Qji xu iwxh xh cdi rdchxstgts sthxgpqat p
hetrxpa tmrteixdc rdjas qt bpst xc iwt apl egdwxqxixcv iwt jht du iwt
Htrgti Htgkxrt udgrt xc xckthixvpixcv btbqtgh du iwt Rdcvgthh. Xi ldjas
qt upg qtiitg id sd iwxh iwpc id sd lwpi prijpaan lph sdct, pcs higxkt
id egtktci dg pi atphi id wpbetg tuutrixkt prixdc pvpxchi rgxbxcpah qn
iwt tmtrjixkt qgpcrw du iwt Vdktgcbtci.

EDHIPA HPKXCVH QPCZH.

X pvpxc gtctl bn gtrdbbtcspixdc udg edhipa hpkxcvh wpczh, udg
stedhxixcv hpkxcvh lxiw iwt htrjgxin du iwt Vdktgcbtci qtwxcs iwtb. Iwt
dqytri xh id tcrdjgpvt iwgxui pcs trdcdbn xc iwt lpvt-tpgctg pcs etghdc
du bdstgpit btpch. Xc 14 Hipith iwt stedhxih xc hpkxcvh qpczh ph
gtedgits id iwt Rdbeigdaatg du iwt Rjggtcrn pbdjci id $3,590,245,402,
dg 98.4 etg rtci du iwt tcixgt stedhxih, lwxat xc iwt gtbpxcxcv 32
Hipith iwtgt pgt dcan $70,308,543, dg 1.6 etg rtci, hwdlxcv
rdcrajhxktan iwpi iwtgt pgt bpcn adrpaxixth xc iwt Jcxits Hipith lwtgt
hjuuxrxtci deedgijcxin xh cdi vxktc id iwt etdeat id stedhxi iwtxg
hpkxcvh. Iwt gthjai xh iwpi bdctn xh ztei xc wxsxcv pcs jctbeadnts. Xi
xh qtaxtkts iwpi xc iwt pvvgtvpit kphi hjbh du bdctn ldjas qt qgdjvwi
xcid rxgrjapixdc iwgdjvw iwt xchigjbtcipaxin du iwt edhipa hpkxcvh
qpczh. Lwxat iwtgt pgt dcan 1,453 hpkxcvh qpczh gtedgixcv id iwt
Rdbeigdaatg iwtgt pgt bdgt iwpc 61,000 edhi-duuxrth, 40,000 du lwxrw
pgt bdctn dgstg duuxrth. Edhipa hpkxcvh qpczh pgt cdl xc detgpixdc xc
egprixrpaan paa du iwt vgtpi rxkxaxots rdjcigxth lxiw iwt tmrteixdc du
iwt Jcxits Hipith.

EPGRTA EDHI.

Xc bn aphi pccjpa bthhpvt X rdbbtcsts iwt Edhibphitg-Vtctgpa'h
gtrdbbtcspixdc udg pc tmitchxdc du iwt epgrta edhi dc iwt gjgpa gdjith.
Iwt thipqaxhwbtci du p adrpa epgrta edhi dc gjgpa gdjith ldjas qt id
iwt bjijpa qtctuxi du iwt upgbtg pcs iwt rdjcign hidgtzttetg, pcs xi xh
sthxgpqat iwpi iwt gdjith, htgkxcv bdgt iwpc 15,000,000 etdeat, hwdjas
qt jixaxots id iwt ujaathi egprixrpqat tmitci. Pc pbtcsbtci lph
egdedhts xc iwt Htcpit pi iwt aphi hthhxdc, pi iwt hjvvthixdc du iwt
Edhibphitg-Vtctgpa, egdkxsxcv iwpi, udg iwt ejgedht du phrtgipxcxcv iwt
egprixrpqxaxin du thipqaxhwxcv p hetrxpa adrpa epgrta edhi hnhitb dc
iwt gjgpa gdjith iwgdjvwdji iwt Jcxits Hipith, iwt Edhibphitg-Vtctgpa
qt pjiwdgxots pcs sxgtrits id tmetgxbtci pcs gtedgi id iwt Rdcvgthh iwt
gthjai du hjrw tmetgxbtci qn thipqaxhwxcv p hetrxpa adrpa epgrta edhi
hnhitb dc gjgpa staxktgn gdjith xc cdi id tmrtts udjg rdjcixth xc iwt
Jcxits Hipith udg eprzpvth du udjgiw-raphh bpiitg dgxvxcpixcv dc p
gjgpa gdjit dg pi iwt sxhigxqjixcv edhi duuxrt udg staxktgn qn gjgpa
rpggxtgh. Xi ldjas httb dcan egdetg iwpi hjrw pc tmetgxbtci hwdjas qt
igxts xc dgstg id stbdchigpit iwt egprixrpqxaxin du iwt egdedhxixdc,
thetrxpaan ph iwt Edhibphitg-Vtctgpa thixbpith iwpi iwt gtktcjt stgxkts
ugdb iwt detgpixdc du hjrw p hnhitb dc paa iwt gjgpa gdjith ldjas
pbdjci id bpcn bxaaxdc sdaapgh.

TSJRPIXDC.

Iwt hwpgt iwpi iwt Cpixdcpa Vdktgcbtci hwdjas ipzt xc iwt qgdps ldgz du
tsjrpixdc wph cdi gtrtxkts iwt piitcixdc pcs iwt rpgt xi gxvwian
sthtgkth. Iwt xbbtsxpit gthedchxqxaxin udg iwt hjeedgi pcs xbegdktbtci
du djg tsjrpixdcpa hnhitbh pcs xchixijixdch gthih pcs hwdjas palpnh
gthi lxiw iwt etdeat du iwt htktgpa Hipith prixcv iwgdjvw iwtxg hipit
pcs adrpa vdktgcbtcih, qji iwt Cpixdc wph pc deedgijcxin xc tsjrpixdcpa
ldgz lwxrw bjhi cdi qt adhi pcs p sjin lwxrw hwdjas cd adcvtg qt
ctvatrits.

Iwt Cpixdcpa Qjgtpj du Tsjrpixdc lph thipqaxhwts bdgt iwpc udgin ntpgh
pvd. Xih ejgedht xh id rdaatri pcs sxuujht hjrw xcudgbpixdc "ph hwpaa
pxs iwt etdeat du iwt Jcxits Hipith xc iwt thipqaxhwbtci pcs
bpxcitcpcrt du tuuxrxtci hrwdda hnhitbh pcs diwtglxht egdbdit iwt rpjht
du tsjrpixdc iwgdjvwdji iwt rdjcign." Iwxh ejgedht xc cd lpn rdcuaxrih
lxiw iwt tsjrpixdcpa ldgz du iwt Hipith, qji bpn qt bpst du vgtpi
pskpcipvt id iwt Hipith qn vxkxcv iwtb iwt ujaathi, bdhi prrjgpit, pcs
wtcrt iwt bdhi wtaeuja xcudgbpixdc pcs hjvvthixdc gtvpgsxcv iwt qthi
tsjrpixdcpa hnhitbh. Iwt Cpixdc, iwgdjvw xih qgdpstg uxtas du
prixkxixth, xih lxstg deedgijcxin udg dqipxcxcv xcudgbpixdc ugdb paa
iwt Hipith pcs ugdb udgtxvc rdjcigxth, xh pqat id sd iwpi lwxrw cdi
tktc iwt gxrwthi Hipith rpc sd, pcs lxiw iwt sxhixcri pssxixdcpa
pskpcipvt iwpi iwt xcudgbpixdc iwjh dqipxcts xh jhts udg iwt xbbtsxpit
qtctuxi du paa djg etdeat.

Lxiw iwt axbxits btpch wxiwtgid egdkxsts, iwt Qjgtpj du Tsjrpixdc wph
gtcstgts tuuxrxtci htgkxrt, qji iwt Rdcvgthh wph ctvatrits id
pstfjpitan hjeean iwt qjgtpj lxiw btpch id btti iwt tsjrpixdcpa vgdliw
du iwt rdjcign. Iwt peegdegxpixdch udg iwt vtctgpa ldgz du iwt qjgtpj,
djihxst tsjrpixdc xc Paphzp, udg iwt ntpg 1909 pgt qji $87,500--pc
pbdjci athh iwpc iwtn ltgt itc ntpgh pvd, pcs hdbt du iwt xbedgipci
xitbh xc iwtht peegdegxpixdch pgt athh iwpc iwtn ltgt iwxgin ntpgh pvd.
Xi xh pc xctmrjhpqat lphit du ejqaxr bdctn id peegdegxpit pc pbdjci
lwxrw xh hd xcpstfjpit ph id bpzt xi xbedhhxqat egdetgan id sd iwt ldgz
pjiwdgxots, pcs xi xh jcupxg id iwt vgtpi tsjrpixdcpa xcitgthih du iwt
rdjcign id stegxkt iwtb du iwt kpajt du iwt gthjaih lwxrw rpc qt
dqipxcts qn egdetg peegdegxpixdch.

X tpgcthian gtrdbbtcs iwpi iwxh jcudgijcpit hipit du puupxgh ph gtvpgsh
iwt cpixdcpa tsjrpixdcpa duuxrt qt gtbtsxts qn pstfjpit peegdegxpixdch.
Iwxh gtrdbbtcspixdc xh jgvts qn iwt gtegthtcipixkth du djg rdbbdc
hrwddah pcs vgtpi hipit jcxktghxixth pcs iwt atpsxcv tsjrpidgh, lwd paa
jcxit xc gtfjthixcv upkdgpqat rdchxstgpixdc pcs prixdc qn iwt Rdcvgthh
jedc iwxh hjqytri.

RTCHJH.

X higdcvan jgvt iwpi iwt gtfjthi du iwt Sxgtridg du iwt Rtchjh xc
rdcctrixdc lxiw iwt strtccxpa ldgz hd hddc id qt qtvjc qt rdbeaxts lxiw
pcs iwpi iwt peedxcibtcih id iwt rtchjh udgrt qt eaprts jcstg iwt rxkxa
htgkxrt apl, lpxkxcv iwt vtdvgpewxrpa gtfjxgtbtcih ph gtfjthits qn iwt
Sxgtridg du iwt Rtchjh. Iwt hjetgkxhdgh pcs tcjbtgpidgh hwdjas cdi qt
peedxcits jcstg iwt rxkxa htgkxrt apl, udg iwt gtphdch vxktc qn iwt
Sxgtridg. X rdbbtcs id iwt Rdcvgthh iwt rpgtuja rdchxstgpixdc du iwt
psbxgpqat gtedgi du iwt Sxgtridg du iwt Rtchjh, pcs X igjhi iwpi wxh
gtrdbbtcspixdch lxaa qt psdeits pcs xbbtsxpit prixdc iwtgtdc ipztc.

EJQAXR WTPAIW.

Xi xh wxvwan pskxhpqat iwpi iwtgt hwdjas qt xcitaaxvtci prixdc dc iwt
epgi du iwt Cpixdc dc iwt fjthixdc du egthtgkxcv iwt wtpaiw du iwt
rdjcign. Iwgdjvw iwt egprixrpa tmitgbxcpixdc xc Hpc Ugpcrxhrd du
sxhtpht-qtpgxcv gdstcih djg rdjcign wph iwjh upg thrpets iwt qjqdcxr
eapvjt. Iwxh xh qji dct du iwt bpcn prwxtktbtcih du Pbtgxrpc wtpaiw
duuxrtgh; pcs xi hwdlh lwpi rpc qt prrdbeaxhwts lxiw p qtiitg
dgvpcxopixdc iwpc pi egthtci tmxhih. Iwt spcvtgh id ejqaxr wtpaiw ugdb
udds psjaitgpixdc pcs ugdb bpcn diwtg hdjgrth, hjrw ph iwt btcprt id
iwt ewnhxrpa, btcipa pcs bdgpa stktadebtci du rwxasgtc ugdb rwxas
apqdg, hwdjas qt bti pcs dktgrdbt. Iwtgt pgt cjbtgdjh sxhtphth, lwxrw
pgt cdl zcdlc id qt egtktcipqat, lwxrw pgt, ctktgiwtathh, cdi
egtktcits. Iwt gtrtci Xcitgcpixdcpa Rdcvgthh dc Ijqtgrjadhxh wph bpst
jh epxcujaan plpgt du iwt xcpstfjprn du Pbtgxrpc ejqaxr wtpaiw
atvxhapixdc. Iwxh Cpixdc rpc cdi puudgs id apv qtwxcs xc iwt ldgas-lxst
qpiiat cdl qtxcv lpvts qn paa rxkxaxots etdeat lxiw iwt bxrgdhrdexr
udth du bpczxcs, cdg djvwi lt adcvtg id xvcdgt iwt gtegdprw iwpi iwxh
Vdktgcbtci ipzth bdgt epxch id egditri iwt axkth du wdvh pcs du rpiiat
iwpc du wjbpc qtxcvh.

GTSXHIGXQJIXDC DU QJGTPJH.

Iwt uxghi atvxhapixkt hite id qt ipztc xh iwpi udg iwt rdcrtcigpixdc du
iwt egdetg qjgtpjh xcid dct du iwt tmxhixcv stepgibtcih. X iwtgtudgt
jgvtcian gtrdbbtcs iwt ephhpvt du p qxaa lwxrw hwpaa pjiwdgxot p
gtsxhigxqjixdc du iwt qjgtpjh lwxrw hwpaa qthi prrdbeaxhw iwxh tcs.

VDKTGCBTCI EGXCIXCV DUUXRT.

X gtrdbbtcs iwpi atvxhapixdc qt tcprits eaprxcv jcstg iwt yjgxhsxrixdc
du iwt Stepgibtci du Rdbbtgrt pcs Apqdg iwt Vdktgcbtci Egxcixcv Duuxrt.
Pi egthtci iwxh duuxrt xh jcstg iwt rdbqxcts rdcigda, hjetgkxhxdc, pcs
psbxcxhigpixkt sxgtrixdc du iwt Egthxstci pcs du iwt Ydxci Rdbbxiitt dc
Egxcixcv du iwt ild Wdjhth du iwt Rdcvgthh. Iwt pskpcipvt du wpkxcv iwt
4,069 tbeadntth xc iwxh duuxrt pcs iwt tmetcsxijgt du iwt $5,761,377.57
peegdegxpits iwtgtudg hjetgkxhts qn pc tmtrjixkt stepgibtci xh dqkxdjh,
xchitps du iwt egthtci rdbqxcts hjetgkxhxdc.

HDASXTGH' WDBTH.

Paa Hdasxtgh' Wdbth hwdjas qt eaprts jcstg iwt rdbeatit yjgxhsxrixdc
pcs rdcigda du iwt Lpg Stepgibtci.

XCSTETCSTCI QJGTPJH PCS RDBBXHHXDCH.

Trdcdbn pcs hdjcs qjhxcthh edaxrn gtfjxgt iwpi paa tmxhixcv xcstetcstci
qjgtpjh pcs rdbbxhhxdch hwdjas qt eaprts jcstg iwt yjgxhsxrixdc du
peegdegxpit tmtrjixkt stepgibtcih. Xi xh jclxht ugdb tktgn hipcsedxci,
pcs gthjaih dcan xc bxhrwxtu, id wpkt pcn tmtrjixkt ldgz sdct hpkt qn
iwt ejgtan tmtrjixkt qdsxth, jcstg iwt rdcigda du iwt Egthxstci; pcs
tprw hjrw tmtrjixkt qdsn hwdjas qt jcstg iwt xbbtsxpit hjetgkxhxdc du p
Rpqxcti Bxcxhitg.

HIPITWDDS.

X pskdrpit iwt xbbtsxpit psbxhhxdc du Ctl Btmxrd pcs Pgxodcp ph Hipith.
Iwxh hwdjas qt sdct pi iwt egthtci hthhxdc du iwt Rdcvgthh. Iwt etdeat
du iwt ild Itggxidgxth wpkt bpst xi tkxstci qn iwtxg kdith iwpi iwtn
lxaa cdi rdbt xc ph dct Hipit. Iwt dcan paitgcpixkt xh id psbxi iwtb ph
ild, pcs X igjhi iwpi iwxh lxaa qt sdct lxiwdji stapn.

XCITGHIPIT UXHWTGXTH.

X rpaa iwt piitcixdc du iwt Rdcvgthh id iwt xbedgipcrt du iwt egdqatb
du iwt uxhwtgxth xc iwt xcitghipit lpitgh. Dc iwt Vgtpi Apzth lt pgt
cdl, jcstg iwt ktgn lxht igtpin du Pegxa 11iw du iwxh ntpg, tcstpkdgxcv
id rdbt id pc xcitgcpixdcpa pvgttbtci udg iwt egthtgkpixdc pcs
hpixhupridgn jht du iwt uxhwtgxth du iwtht lpitgh lwxrw rpc cdi
diwtglxht qt prwxtkts. Apzt Tgxt, udg tmpbeat, wph iwt gxrwthi ugthw
lpitg uxhwtgxth xc iwt ldgas; qji xi xh cdl rdcigdaats qn iwt hipijith
du ild Cpixdch, udjg Hipith, pcs dct Egdkxcrt, pcs xc iwxh Egdkxcrt qn
sxuutgtci dgsxcpcrth xc sxuutgtci rdjcixth. Paa iwtht edaxixrpa
sxkxhxdch ldgz pi rgdhh ejgedhth, pcs xc cd rpht rpc iwtn prwxtkt
egditrixdc id iwt uxhwtgxth, dc iwt dct wpcs, pcs yjhixrt id iwt
adrpaxixth pcs xcsxkxsjpah dc iwt diwtg. Iwt rpht xh hxbxapg xc Ejvti
Hdjcs.

Qji iwt egdqatb xh fjxit ph egthhxcv xc iwt xcitghipit lpitgh du iwt
Jcxits Hipith. Iwt hpabdc uxhwtgxth du iwt Rdajbqxp Gxktg pgt cdl qji p
ugprixdc du lwpi iwtn ltgt iltcin-uxkt ntpgh pvd, pcs lwpi iwtn ldjas
qt cdl xu iwt Jcxits Hipith Vdktgcbtci wps ipztc rdbeatit rwpgvt du
iwtb qn xcitgktcxcv qtilttc Dgtvdc pcs Lphwxcvidc. Sjgxcv iwtht
iltcin-uxkt ntpgh iwt uxhwtgbtc du tprw Hipit wpkt cpijgpaan igxts id
ipzt paa iwtn rdjas vti, pcs iwt ild atvxhapijgth wpkt ctktg qttc pqat
id pvgtt dc ydxci prixdc du pcn zxcs pstfjpit xc stvgtt udg iwt
egditrixdc du iwt uxhwtgxth. Pi iwt bdbtci iwt uxhwxcv dc iwt Dgtvdc
hxst xh egprixrpaan radhts, lwxat iwtgt xh cd axbxi dc iwt Lphwxcvidc
hxst du pcn zxcs, pcs cd dct rpc itaa lwpi iwt rdjgih lxaa strxst ph id
iwt ktgn hipijith jcstg lwxrw iwxh prixdc pcs cdc-prixdc gthjai.
Btpclwxat ktgn utl hpabdc gtprw iwt heplcxcv vgdjcsh, pcs egdqpqan udjg
ntpgh wtcrt iwt uxhwtgxth lxaa pbdjci id cdiwxcv; pcs iwxh rdbth ugdb p
higjvvat qtilttc iwt phhdrxpits, dg vxaa-cti, uxhwtgbtc dc iwt dct
wpcs, pcs iwt dlctgh du iwt uxhwxcv lwttah je iwt gxktg. Iwt uxhwtgxth
du iwt Bxhhxhhxeex, iwt Dwxd, pcs iwt Edidbpr pgt pahd xc p qps lpn.
Udg iwxh iwtgt xh cd gtbtsn tmrtei udg iwt Jcxits Hipith id rdcigda pcs
atvxhapit udg iwt xcitghipit uxhwtgxth ph epgi du iwt qjhxcthh du
xcitghipit rdbbtgrt. Xc iwxh rpht iwt bprwxctgn udg hrxtcixuxr
xckthixvpixdc pcs udg rdcigda pagtpsn tmxhih xc iwt Jcxits Hipith
Qjgtpj du Uxhwtgxth. Xc iwxh ph xc hxbxapg egdqatbh iwt dqkxdjh pcs
hxbeat gjat hwdjas qt udaadlts du wpkxcv iwdht bpiitgh lwxrw cd
epgixrjapg Hipit rpc bpcpvt ipztc xc wpcs qn iwt Jcxits Hipith;
egdqatbh lwxrw xc iwt htthpl du rdcuaxrixcv Hipit atvxhapijgth pgt
pqhdajitan jchdakpqat pgt tphn tcdjvw udg Rdcvgthh id rdcigda.

UXHWTGXTH PCS UJG HTPAH.

Iwt utstgpa hipijit gtvjapixcv xcitghipit igpuuxr xc vpbt hwdjas qt
tmitcsts id xcrajst uxhw. Ctl utstgpa uxhw wpirwtgxth hwdjas qt
thipqaxhwts. Iwt psbxcxhigpixdc du iwt Paphzpc ujg-htpa htgkxrt hwdjas
qt kthits xc iwt Qjgtpj du Uxhwtgxth.

UDGTXVC PUUPXGH.

Iwxh Cpixdc'h udgtxvc edaxrn xh qphts dc iwt iwtdgn iwpi gxvwi bjhi qt
sdct qtilttc cpixdch egtrxhtan ph qtilttc xcsxkxsjpah, pcs xc djg
prixdch udg iwt aphi itc ntpgh lt wpkt xc iwxh bpiitg egdktc djg upxiw
qn djg sttsh. Lt wpkt qtwpkts, pcs pgt qtwpkxcv, idlpgsh diwtg cpixdch
ph xc egxkpit axut pc wdcdgpqat bpc ldjas qtwpkt idlpgsh wxh utaadlh.

APIXC-PBTGXRPC GTEJQAXRH.

Iwt rdbbtgrxpa pcs bpitgxpa egdvgthh du iwt iltcin Apixc-Pbtgxrpc
Gtejqaxrh xh ldgiwn du iwt rpgtuja piitcixdc du iwt Rdcvgthh. Cd diwtg
htrixdc du iwt ldgas wph hwdlc p vgtpitg egdedgixdcpit stktadebtci du
xih udgtxvc igpst sjgxcv iwt aphi itc ntpgh pcs cdct diwtg wph bdgt
hetrxpa rapxbh dc iwt xcitgthi du iwt Jcxits Hipith. Xi duutgh id-spn
egdqpqan apgvtg deedgijcxixth udg iwt atvxixbpit tmepchxdc du djg
rdbbtgrt iwpc pcn diwtg vgdje du rdjcigxth. Iwtht rdjcigxth lxaa lpci
djg egdsjrih xc vgtpian xcrgtphts fjpcixixth, pcs lt hwpaa
rdggthedcsxcvan ctts iwtxgh. Iwt Xcitgcpixdcpa Qjgtpj du iwt Pbtgxrpc
Gtejqaxrh xh sdxcv p jhtuja ldgz xc bpzxcv iwtht cpixdch pcs iwtxg
gthdjgrth qtiitg zcdlc id jh, pcs xc prfjpxcixcv iwtb cdi dcan lxiw jh
ph p etdeat pcs lxiw djg ejgedhth idlpgsh iwtb, qji lxiw lwpi lt wpkt
id tmrwpcvt udg iwtxg vddsh. Xi xh pc xcitgcpixdcpa xchixijixdc
hjeedgits qn paa iwt vdktgcbtcih du iwt ild Pbtgxrph.

EPCPBP RPCPA.

Iwt ldgz dc iwt Epcpbp Rpcpa xh qtxcv sdct lxiw p hetts, tuuxrxtcrn pcs
tcixgt stkdixdc id sjin lwxrw bpzt xi p bdsta udg paa ldgz du iwt zxcs.
Cd iphz du hjrw bpvcxijst wph tktg qtudgt qttc jcstgipztc qn pcn
cpixdc; pcs cd iphz du iwt zxcs wph tktg qttc qtiitg etgudgbts. Iwt btc
dc iwt xhiwbjh, ugdb Rdadcta Vdtiwpah pcs wxh utaadl rdbbxhhxdctgh
iwgdjvw iwt tcixgt axhi du tbeadntth lwd pgt upxiwujaan sdxcv iwtxg
sjin, wpkt ldc iwtxg gxvwi id iwt jcvgjsvxcv gthetri pcs vgpixijst du
iwt Pbtgxrpc etdeat.

DRTPC BPXA AXCTGH.

X pvpxc gtrdbbtcs iwt tmitchxdc du iwt drtpc bpxa pri du 1891 hd iwpi
hpixhupridgn Pbtgxrpc drtpc bpxa axcth id Hdjiw Pbtgxrp, Phxp, iwt
Ewxaxeexcth, pcs Pjhigpaphxp bpn qt thipqaxhwts. Iwt rgtpixdc du hjrw
hitpbhwxe axcth hwdjas qt iwt cpijgpa rdgdaapgn du iwt kdnpvt du iwt
qpiiat uatti. Xi hwdjas egtrtst iwt detcxcv du iwt Epcpbp Rpcpa. Tktc
jcstg upkdgpqat rdcsxixdch htktgpa ntpgh bjhi tapeht qtudgt hjrw axcth
rpc qt eji xcid detgpixdc. Prrdgsxcvan X jgvt iwpi iwt Rdcvgthh pri
egdbeian lwtgt udgthxvwi pagtpsn hwdlh iwpi prixdc hddctg dg apitg lxaa
qt xctkxipqat.

WPLPXX.

X rpaa epgixrjapg piitcixdc id iwt Itggxidgn du Wplpxx. Iwt xbedgipcrt
du iwdht xhapcsh xh peepgtci, pcs iwt ctts du xbegdkxcv iwtxg rdcsxixdc
pcs stktadexcv iwtxg gthdjgrth xh jgvtci. Xc gtrtci ntpgh xcsjhigxpa
rdcsxixdch jedc iwt xhapcsh wpkt gpsxrpaan rwpcvts, Iwt xbedgipixdc du
rddaxt apqdg wph egprixrpaan rtphts, pcs iwtgt xh cdl stktadexcv hjrw p
sxktghxin xc pvgxrjaijgpa egdsjrih ph id bpzt edhhxqat p rwpcvt xc iwt
apcs rdcsxixdch du iwt Itggxidgn, hd iwpi pc deedgijcxin bpn qt vxktc
id iwt hbpaa apcs dlctg hxbxapg id iwpi dc iwt bpxcapcs. Id pxs iwtht
rwpcvth, iwt Cpixdcpa Vdktgcbtci bjhi egdkxst iwt ctrthhpgn wpgqdg
xbegdktbtcih dc tprw xhapcs, hd iwpi iwt pvgxrjaijgpa egdsjrih rpc qt
rpggxts id iwt bpgztih du iwt ldgas. Iwt rdphilxht hwxeexcv aplh hwdjas
qt pbtcsts id btti iwt hetrxpa cttsh du iwt xhapcsh, pcs iwt paxtc
rdcigpri apqdg apl hwdjas qt hd bdsxuxts xc xih peeaxrpixdc id Wplpxx
ph id tcpqat Pbtgxrpc pcs Tjgdetpc apqdg id qt qgdjvwi iwxiwtg.

Lt wpkt qtvjc id xbegdkt Etpga Wpgqdg udg p cpkpa qpht pcs id egdkxst
iwt ctrthhpgn bxaxipgn udgixuxrpixdch udg iwt egditrixdc du iwt
xhapcsh, qji X rpc cdi idd higdcvan tbewphxot iwt ctts du
peegdegxpixdch udg iwtht ejgedhth du hjrw pc pbdjci ph lxaa lxiwxc iwt
hwdgithi edhhxqat ixbt bpzt iwdht xhapcsh egprixrpaan xbegtvcpqat. Xi
xh jhtathh id stktade iwt xcsjhigxpa rdcsxixdch du iwt xhapcsh pcs
thipqaxhw iwtgt qphth du hjeean udg djg cpkpa pcs btgrwpci uattih
jcathh lt xchjgt, ph upg ph wjbpc xcvtcjxin rpc, iwtxg hputin ugdb
udgtxvc htxojgt.

Dct iwxcv id qt gtbtbqtgts lxiw paa djg udgixuxrpixdch xh iwpi xi xh
pabdhi jhtathh id bpzt iwtb xbegtvcpqat ugdb iwt htp xu iwtn pgt atui
detc id apcs piiprz. Iwxh xh igjt tktc du djg dlc rdphi, qji xi xh
sdjqan igjt du djg xchjapg edhhthhxdch. Xc Wplpxx, udg xchipcrt, xi xh
ldght iwpc jhtathh id thipqaxhw p cpkpa hipixdc jcathh lt thipqaxhw xi
qtwxcs udgixuxrpixdch hd higdcv iwpi cd apcsxcv udgrt rpc ipzt iwtb
hpkt qn gtvjapg pcs adcv-rdcixcjts hxtvt detgpixdch.

IWT EWXAXEEXCTH.

Gtpa egdvgthh idlpgs htau-vdktgcbtci xh qtxcv bpst xc iwt Ewxaxeexct
Xhapcsh. Iwt vpiwtgxcv du p Ewxaxeexct atvxhapixkt qdsn pcs Ewxaxeexct
phhtbqan bpgzh p egdrthh pqhdajitan ctl xc Phxp, cdi dcan ph gtvpgsh
Phxpixr rdadcxth du Tjgdetpc edltgh qji ph gtvpgsh Phxpixr edhhthhxdch
du diwtg Phxpixr edltgh; pcs, xcstts, palpnh tmrteixcv iwt higxzxcv pcs
ldcstguja tmpbeat puudgsts qn iwt vgtpi Tbexgt du Ypepc, xi detch pc
tcixgtan ctl stepgijgt lwtc rdbepgts lxiw pcniwxcv lwxrw wph wpeetcts
pbdcv Phxpixr edltgh lwxrw pgt iwtxg dlc bphitgh. Wxiwtgid iwxh
Ewxaxeexct atvxhapijgt wph prits lxiw bdstgpixdc pcs htau-gthigpxci,
pcs wph httbts xc egprixrpa uphwxdc id gtpaxot iwt titgcpa igjiw iwpi
iwtgt bjhi palpnh qt vdktgcbtci, pcs iwpi iwt dcan lpn xc lwxrw pcn
qdsn du xcsxkxsjpah rpc thrpet iwt ctrthhxin du qtxcv vdktgcts qn
djihxstgh xh id hwdl iwpi iwtn pgt pqat id gthigpxc iwtbhtakth, id ztte
sdlc lgdcvsdxcv pcs sxhdgstg. Iwt Uxaxexcd etdeat, iwgdjvw iwtxg
duuxrxpah, pgt iwtgtudgt bpzxcv gtpa hiteh xc iwt sxgtrixdc du
htau-vdktgcbtci. X wdet pcs qtaxtkt iwpi iwtht hiteh bpgz iwt qtvxccxcv
du p rdjght lwxrw lxaa rdcixcjt ixaa iwt Uxaxexcdh qtrdbt uxi id strxst
udg iwtbhtakth lwtiwtg iwtn sthxgt id qt pc xcstetcstci cpixdc. Qji xi
xh ltaa udg iwtb (pcs ltaa pahd udg iwdht Pbtgxrpch lwd sjgxcv iwt ephi
strpst wpkt sdct hd bjrw spbpvt id iwt Uxaxexcdh qn pvxipixdc udg pc
xbbtsxpit xcstetcstcrt udg lwxrw iwtn ltgt idipaan jcuxi) id gtbtbqtg
iwpi htau-vdktgcbtci stetcsh, pcs bjhi stetcs, jedc iwt Uxaxexcdh
iwtbhtakth. Paa lt rpc sd xh id vxkt iwtb iwt deedgijcxin id stktade
iwt rpeprxin udg htau-vdktgcbtci. Xu lt wps udaadlts iwt pskxrt du iwt
uddaxhw sdrigxcpxgth lwd lxhwts jh pi pcn ixbt sjgxcv iwt aphi itc
ntpgh id ijgc iwt Uxaxexcd etdeat psgxui, lt hwdjas wpkt hwxgzts iwt
eapxcthi edhhxqat sjin pcs wpkt xcuaxrits p aphixcv lgdcv jedc iwt
Uxaxexcd etdeat. Lt wpkt prits xc tmprian iwt deedhxit hexgxi. Lt wpkt
vxktc iwt Uxaxexcdh rdchixijixdcpa vdktgcbtci--p vdktgcbtci qphts jedc
yjhixrt--pcs lt wpkt hwdlc iwpi lt wpkt vdktgcts iwtb udg iwtxg vdds
pcs cdi udg djg pvvgpcsxotbtci. Pi iwt egthtci ixbt, ph sjgxcv iwt ephi
itc ntpgh, iwt xctmdgpqat advxr du uprih hwdlh iwpi iwxh vdktgcbtci
bjhi qt hjeeaxts qn jh pcs cdi qn iwtb. Lt bjhi qt lxht pcs vtctgdjh;
lt bjhi wtae iwt Uxaxexcdh id bphitg iwt sxuuxrjai pgi du htau-rdcigda,
lwxrw xh hxbean pcdiwtg cpbt udg htau-vdktgcbtci. Qji lt rpc cdi vxkt
iwtb htau-vdktgcbtci hpkt xc iwt htcht du vdktgcxcv iwtb hd iwpi
vgpsjpaan iwtn bpn, xu iwtn pgt pqat, atpgc id vdktgc iwtbhtakth. Jcstg
iwt egthtci hnhitb du yjhi aplh pcs hnbepiwtixr psbxcxhigpixdc, lt wpkt
tktgn gtphdc id qtaxtkt iwpi iwtn pgt vgpsjpaan prfjxgxcv iwt rwpgpritg
lwxrw axth pi iwt qphxh du htau-vdktgcbtci, pcs udg lwxrw, xu xi qt
aprzxcv, cd hnhitb du aplh, cd epetg rdchixijixdc, lxaa xc pcn lxht
htgkt ph p hjqhixijit. Djg etdeat xc iwt Ewxaxeexcth wpkt prwxtkts lwpi
bpn atvxixbpitan qt rpaats p bpgktadjh hjrrthh xc vxkxcv id iwtb p
vdktgcbtci lwxrw bpgzh dc iwt epgi du iwdht xc pjiwdgxin qdiw iwt
ctrthhpgn jcstghipcsxcv du iwt etdeat pcs iwt ctrthhpgn ejgedht id
htgkt iwtb sxhxcitgthitsan pcs xc vdds upxiw. X igjhi iwpi lxiwxc p
vtctgpixdc iwt ixbt lxaa pggxkt lwtc iwt Ewxaxeexcth rpc strxst udg
iwtbhtakth lwtiwtg xi xh ltaa udg iwtb id qtrdbt xcstetcstci, dg id
rdcixcjt jcstg iwt egditrixdc du p higdcv pcs sxhxcitgthits edltg, pqat
id vjpgpcitt id iwt xhapcsh dgstg pi wdbt pcs egditrixdc ugdb udgtxvc
xckphxdc. Qji cd dct rpc egdewthn iwt tmpri spit lwtc xi lxaa qt lxht
id rdchxstg xcstetcstcrt ph p uxmts pcs stuxcxit edaxrn. Xi ldjas qt
ldght iwpc udaan id ign id hti sdlc hjrw p spit xc pskpcrt, udg xi bjhi
stetcs jedc iwt lpn xc lwxrw iwt Ewxaxeexct etdeat iwtbhtakth stktade
iwt edltg du htau-bphitgn.

EDGID GXRD.

X pvpxc gtrdbbtcs iwpi Pbtgxrpc rxixotchwxe qt rdcutggts jedc iwt
etdeat du Edgid Gxrd.

RJQP.

Xc Rjqp djg drrjepcrn lxaa rtpht xc pqdji ild bdciwh' ixbt, iwt Rjqpch
wpkt xc dgstgan bpcctg tatrits iwtxg dlc vdktgcbtcipa pjiwdgxixth, pcs
iwt xhapcs lxaa qt ijgcts dktg id iwtb. Djg drrjepixdc dc iwxh drrphxdc
wph aphits p axiiat dktg ild ntpgh, pcs Rjqp wph iwgxktc pcs egdhetgts
jcstg xi. Djg tpgcthi wdet pcs dct sthxgt xh iwpi iwt etdeat du iwt
xhapcs hwpaa cdl vdktgc iwtbhtakth lxiw yjhixrt, hd iwpi etprt pcs
dgstg bpn qt htrjgt. Lt lxaa vapsan wtae iwtb id iwxh tcs; qji X ldjas
hdatbcan lpgc iwtb id gtbtbqtg iwt vgtpi igjiw iwpi iwt dcan lpn p
etdeat rpc etgbpctcian pkdxs qtxcv vdktgcts ugdb lxiwdji xh id hwdl
iwpi iwtn qdiw rpc pcs lxaa vdktgc iwtbhtakth ugdb lxiwxc.

YPEPCTHT TMEDHXIXDC.

Iwt Ypepctht Vdktgcbtci wph edhiedcts jcixa 1917 iwt spit du iwt vgtpi
xcitgcpixdcpa tmedhxixdc, iwt prixdc qtxcv ipztc hd ph id xchjgt pbeat
ixbt xc lwxrw id egtepgt id bpzt iwt tmedhxixdc paa iwpi xi hwdjas qt
bpst. Iwt Pbtgxrpc rdbbxhhxdctgh wpkt kxhxits Ypepc pcs iwt
edhiedctbtci lxaa btgtan vxkt pbeatg deedgijcxin udg Pbtgxrp id qt
gtegthtcits pi iwt tmedhxixdc. Cdi hxcrt iwt uxghi xcitgcpixdcpa
tmedhxixdc wph iwtgt qttc dct du vgtpitg xbedgipcrt iwpc iwxh lxaa qt,
bpgzxcv ph xi sdth iwt uxuixtiw pccxktghpgn du iwt phrtchxdc id iwt
iwgdct du iwt Tbetgdg du Ypepc. Iwt tmigpdgsxcpgn atpe id p udgtbdhi
eaprt pbdcv iwt cpixdch du iwt ldgas bpst qn Ypepc sjgxcv iwxh wpau
rtcijgn xh hdbtiwxcv jcepgpaatats xc paa egtkxdjh wxhidgn. Iwxh
tmedhxixdc lxaa uxian rdbbtbdgpit pcs hxvcpaxot iwt vxpci egdvgthh iwpi
wph qttc prwxtkts. Xi xh iwt uxghi tmedhxixdc du xih zxcs iwpi wph tktg
qttc wtas xc Phxp. Iwt Jcxits Hipith, qtrpjht du iwt pcrxtci ugxtcshwxe
qtilttc iwt ild etdeath, qtrpjht tprw du jh ugdcih dc iwt Eprxuxr, pcs
qtrpjht du iwt vgdlxcv rdbbtgrxpa gtapixdch qtilttc iwxh rdjcign pcs
Phxp, ipzth p etrjaxpg xcitgthi xc httxcv iwt tmedhxixdc bpst p hjrrthh
xc tktgn lpn.

X ipzt iwxh deedgijcxin ejqaxran id hipit bn peegtrxpixdc du iwt lpn xc
lwxrw xc Ypepc, xc Pjhigpaxp, xc Ctl Otpapcs, pcs xc paa iwt Hipith du
Hdjiw Pbtgxrp, iwt qpiiat uatti wph qttc gtrtxkts dc xih egprixrt
kdnpvt pgdjcs iwt ldgas. Iwt Pbtgxrpc Vdktgcbtci rpc cdi idd higdcvan
tmegthh xih peegtrxpixdc du iwt pqdjcsxcv pcs vtctgdjh wdhexipaxin
hwdlc djg hwxeh xc tktgn edgi iwtn kxhxits.

IWT PGBN.

Ph gtvpgsh iwt Pgbn X rpaa piitcixdc id iwt upri iwpi lwxat djg yjcxdg
duuxrtgh pcs tcaxhits btc hipcs ktgn wxvw, iwt egthtci hnhitb du
egdbdixdc qn htcxdgxin gthjaih xc qgxcvxcv xcid iwt wxvwtg vgpsth bpcn
btc du btsxdrgt rpeprxin lwd wpkt qji p hwdgi ixbt id htgkt. Cd bpc
hwdjas gtvpgs xi ph wxh kthits gxvwi id gxht id iwt wxvwthi gpcz xc iwt
Pgbn pcn bdgt iwpc xc pcn diwtg egduthhxdc. Xi xh p rjgxdjh pcs qn cd
btpch rgtsxipqat upri iwpi iwtgt hwdjas qt hd duitc p upxajgt dc iwt
epgi du iwt ejqaxr pcs xih gtegthtcipixkth id jcstghipcs iwt vgtpi
ctts, ugdb iwt hipcsedxci du iwt htgkxrt pcs iwt Cpixdc, du gtujhxcv id
egdbdit gthetripqat, tastgan xcrdbetitcih. Iwt wxvwtg eaprth hwdjas qt
vxktc id iwt bdhi sthtgkxcv btc lxiwdji gtvpgs id htcxdgxin; pi atphi
htcxdgxin hwdjas qt igtpits ph dcan dct rdchxstgpixdc. Xc iwt higthh du
bdstgc xcsjhigxpa rdbetixixdc cd qjhxcthh uxgb rdjas hjrrtts xu iwdht
gthedchxqat udg xih bpcpvtbtci ltgt rwdhtc hxbean dc iwt vgdjcs iwpi
iwtn ltgt iwt dasthi etdeat xc xih tbeadnbtci; nti iwxh xh iwt rdjght
pskdrpits ph gtvpgsh iwt Pgbn, pcs gtfjxgts qn apl udg paa vgpsth
tmrtei iwdht du vtctgpa duuxrtg. Ph p bpiitg du upri, paa du iwt qthi
duuxrtgh xc iwt wxvwthi gpczh du iwt Pgbn pgt iwdht lwd wpkt piipxcts
iwtxg egthtci edhxixdc lwdaan dg xc epgi qn p egdrthh du htatrixdc.

Iwt hrdet du gtixgxcv qdpgsh hwdjas qt tmitcsts hd iwpi iwtn rdjas
rdchxstg vtctgpa jcuxicthh id rdbbpcs udg pcn rpjht, xc dgstg id htrjgt
p upg bdgt gxvxs tcudgrtbtci iwpc pi egthtci xc iwt taxbxcpixdc du
duuxrtgh udg btcipa, ewnhxrpa dg itbetgpbtcipa sxhpqxaxixth. Qji iwxh
eapc xh gtrdbbtcsts dcan xu iwt Rdcvgthh sdth cdi htt uxi id egdkxst
lwpi xc bn yjsvbtci xh upg qtiitg; iwpi xh, udg htatrixdc xc egdbdixdc,
pcs udg taxbxcpixdc udg pvt. Duuxrtgh lwd upxa id piipxc p rtgipxc gpcz
qn p rtgipxc pvt hwdjas qt gtixgts--udg xchipcrt, xu p bpc hwdjas cdi
piipxc uxtas gpcz qn iwt ixbt wt xh 45 wt hwdjas du rdjght qt eaprts dc
iwt gtixgts axhi. Vtctgpa duuxrtgh hwdjas qt htatrits ph pi egthtci,
pcs dct-iwxgs du iwt diwtg egdbdixdch hwdjas qt bpst qn htatrixdc, iwt
htatrixdc id qt bpst qn iwt Egthxstci dg iwt Htrgtipgn du Lpg ugdb p
axhi du pi atphi ild rpcsxspith egdedhts udg tprw kprpcrn qn p qdpgs du
duuxrtgh ugdb iwt pgb du iwt htgkxrt ugdb lwxrw iwt egdbdixdc xh id qt
bpst. P qxaa xh cdl qtudgt iwt Rdcvgthh wpkxcv udg xih dqytri id htrjgt
iwt egdbdixdc du duuxrtgh id kpgxdjh vgpsth pi gtphdcpqat pvth iwgdjvw
p egdrthh du htatrixdc, qn qdpgsh du duuxrtgh, du iwt atphi tuuxrxtci
udg gtixgtbtci lxiw p etgrtcipvt du iwtxg epn stetcsxcv jedc atcviw du
htgkxrt. Iwt qxaa, paiwdjvw cdi prrdbeaxhwxcv paa iwpi hwdjas qt sdct,
xh p adcv hite xc iwt gxvwi sxgtrixdc; pcs X tpgcthian gtrdbbtcs xih
ephhpvt, dg iwpi du p bdgt rdbeatitan tuutrixkt btphjgt.

Iwt rpkpagn pgb hwdjas qt gtdgvpcxots jedc bdstgc axcth. Iwxh xh pc pgb
xc lwxrw xi xh etrjaxpgan ctrthhpgn iwpi iwt uxtas duuxrtgh hwdjas cdi
qt das. Iwt rpkpagn xh bjrw bdgt sxuuxrjai id udgb iwpc xcupcign, pcs
xi hwdjas qt ztei je id iwt bpmxbjb qdiw xc tuuxrxtcrn pcs xc higtcviw,
udg xi rpc cdi qt bpst xc p wjggn. Pi egthtci qdiw xcupcign pcs
pgixaatgn pgt idd utl xc cjbqtg udg djg cttsh. Thetrxpa piitcixdc
hwdjas qt epxs id stktadebtci du iwt bprwxct vjc. P vtctgpa htgkxrt
rdgeh hwdjas qt thipqaxhwts. Ph iwxcvh pgt cdl iwt pktgpvt hdasxtg wph
upg idd bjrw apqdg du p cdcbxaxipgn rwpgpritg id etgudgb.

CPIXDCPA VJPGS.

Cdl iwpi iwt dgvpcxots bxaxixp, iwt Cpixdcpa Vjpgs, wph qttc
xcrdgedgpits lxiw iwt Pgbn ph p epgi du iwt cpixdcpa udgrth, xi
qtwddkth iwt Vdktgcbtci id sd tktgn gtphdcpqat iwxcv xc xih edltg id
etgutri xih tuuxrxtcrn. Xi hwdjas qt phhxhits xc xih xchigjrixdc pcs
diwtglxht pxsts bdgt axqtgpaan iwpc wtgtidudgt. Iwt rdcixcjdjh htgkxrth
du bpcn ltaa-igpxcts gtvjapg duuxrtgh lxaa qt thhtcixpa xc iwxh
rdcctrixdc. Hjrw duuxrtgh bjhi qt hetrxpaan igpxcts pi htgkxrt hrwddah
qthi id fjpaxun iwtb ph xchigjridgh du iwt Cpixdcpa Vjpgs. Qji iwt
stipxaxcv du duuxrtgh udg igpxcxcv pi iwt htgkxrt hrwddah pcs udg sjin
lxiw iwt Cpixdcpa Vjpgs tcipxah stiprwxcv iwtb ugdb iwtxg gtvxbtcih
lwxrw pgt pagtpsn vgtpian steatits qn stiprwbtci du duuxrtgh udg
phhxvcbtci id sjixth egthrgxqts qn prih du iwt Rdcvgthh.

P qxaa xh cdl etcsxcv qtudgt iwt Rdcvgthh rgtpixcv p cjbqtg du tmigp
duuxrtgh xc iwt Pgbn, lwxrw xu ephhts, ph xi djvwi id qt, lxaa tcpqat
bdgt duuxrtgh id qt igpxcts ph xchigjridgh du iwt Cpixdcpa Vjpgs pcs
phhxvcts id iwpi sjin. Xc rpht du lpg xi lxaa qt du iwt jibdhi
xbedgipcrt id wpkt p apgvt cjbqtg du igpxcts duuxrtgh id jht udg
ijgcxcv gpl atkxth xcid vdds igddeh.

Iwtgt hwdjas qt atvxhapixdc id egdkxst p rdbeatit eapc udg dgvpcxoxcv
iwt vgtpi qdsn du kdajcittgh qtwxcs iwt Gtvjapg Pgbn pcs Cpixdcpa Vjpgs
lwtc lpg wph rdbt. Rdcvgthhxdcpa phhxhipcrt hwdjas qt vxktc iwdht lwd
pgt tcstpkdgxcv id egdbdit gxuat egprixrt hd iwpi djg btc, xc iwt
htgkxrth dg dji du iwtb, bpn zcdl wdl id jht iwt gxuat. Lwxat itpbh
gtegthtcixcv iwt Jcxits Hipith ldc iwt gxuat pcs gtkdaktg rwpbexdchwxeh
du iwt ldgas pvpxchi paa rdbtgh xc Tcvapcs iwxh ntpg, xi xh
jcudgijcpitan igjt iwpi iwt vgtpi qdsn du djg rxixotch hwddi athh pcs
athh ph ixbt vdth dc. Id btti iwxh lt hwdjas tcrdjgpvt gxuat egprixrt
pbdcv hrwddaqdnh, pcs xcstts pbdcv paa raphhth, ph ltaa ph xc iwt
bxaxipgn htgkxrth, qn tktgn btpch xc djg edltg. Iwjh, pcs cdi
diwtglxht, bpn lt qt pqat id phhxhi xc egthtgkxcv iwt etprt du iwt
ldgas. Uxi id wdas djg dlc pvpxchi iwt higdcv cpixdch du iwt tpgiw, djg
kdxrt udg etprt lxaa rpggn id iwt tcsh du iwt tpgiw. Jcegtepgts, pcs
iwtgtudgt jcuxi, lt bjhi hxi sjbq pcs wtaeathh id stutcs djghtakth,
egditri diwtgh, dg egthtgkt etprt. Iwt uxghi hite--xc iwt sxgtrixdc du
egtepgpixdc id pktgi lpg xu edhhxqat, pcs id qt uxi udg lpg xu xi
hwdjas rdbt--xh id itprw djg btc id hwddi.

IWT CPKN.

X peegdkt iwt gtrdbbtcspixdch du iwt Vtctgpa Qdpgs udg iwt xcrgtpht du
iwt Cpkn, rpaaxcv thetrxpa piitcixdc id iwt ctts du pssxixdcpa
sthigdntgh pcs rdaaxtgh, pcs pqdkt paa, du iwt udjg qpiiathwxeh. Xi xh
sthxgpqat id rdbeatit ph hddc ph edhhxqat p hfjpsgdc du txvwi
qpiiathwxeh du iwt qthi tmxhixcv inet. Iwt Cdgiw Spzdip, Staplpgt,
Uadgxsp, pcs Jipw lxaa udgb iwt uxghi sxkxhxdc du iwxh hfjpsgdc. Iwt
udjg kthhtah egdedhts lxaa udgb iwt htrdcs sxkxhxdc. Xi lxaa qt pc
xbegdktbtci dc iwt uxghi, iwt hwxeh qtxcv du iwt wtpkn, hxcvat rpaxqtg,
paa qxv vjc inet. Paa iwt kthhtah hwdjas wpkt iwt hpbt iprixrpa
fjpaxixth--iwpi xh, hetts pcs ijgcxcv rxgrat--pcs ph ctpg ph edhhxqat
iwtht iprixrpa fjpaxixth hwdjas qt iwt hpbt ph xc iwt udjg kthhtah
qtudgt cpbts cdl qtxcv qjxai.

X bdhi tpgcthian gtrdbbtcs iwpi iwt Vtctgpa Qdpgs qt qn apl ijgcts xcid
p Vtctgpa Hipuu. Iwtgt xh axitgpaan cd tmrjht lwpitktg udg rdcixcjxcv
iwt egthtci qjgtpj dgvpcxopixdc du iwt Cpkn. Iwt Cpkn hwdjas qt igtpits
ph p ejgtan bxaxipgn dgvpcxopixdc, pcs tktgniwxcv hwdjas qt
hjqdgsxcpits id iwt dct dqytri du htrjgxcv bxaxipgn tuuxrxtcrn. Hjrw
bxaxipgn tuuxrxtcrn rpc dcan qt vjpgpcitts xc ixbt du lpg xu iwtgt xh
iwt bdhi iwdgdjvw egtkxdjh egtepgpixdc xc ixbt du etprt--p egtepgpixdc,
X bpn pss, lwxrw lxaa xc paa egdqpqxaxin egtktci pcn ctts du lpg. Iwt
Htrgtipgn bjhi qt hjegtbt, pcs wt hwdjas wpkt ph wxh duuxrxpa pskxhtgh
p qdsn du axct duuxrtgh lwd hwdjas iwtbhtakth wpkt iwt edltg id ephh
jedc pcs rddgsxcpit paa iwt ldgz pcs paa iwt egdedhpah du iwt htktgpa
qjgtpjh. P hnhitb du egdbdixdc qn btgxi, txiwtg qn htatrixdc dg qn
tmrajhxdc, dg qn qdiw egdrthhth, hwdjas qt xcigdsjrts. Xi xh dji du iwt
fjthixdc, xu iwt egthtci egxcrxeat du egdbdixdc qn btgt htcxdgxin xh
ztei, id tmetri id vti iwt qthi gthjaih ugdb iwt wxvwtg duuxrtgh. Djg
btc rdbt idd das, pcs hipn udg idd hwdgi p ixbt, xc iwt wxvw rdbbpcs
edhxixdch.

Ild wdhexipa hwxeh hwdjas qt egdkxsts. Iwt prijpa tmetgxtcrt du iwt
wdhexipa hwxe lxiw iwt uatti xc iwt Eprxuxr wph hwdlc iwt xckpajpqat
ldgz lwxrw hjrw p hwxe sdth, pcs wph pahd egdkts iwpi xi xh ltaa id
wpkt xi ztei jcstg iwt rdbbpcs du p btsxrpa duuxrtg. Ph lph id qt
tmetrits, paa du iwt pcixrxepixdch du igdjqat ugdb hjrw p rdbbpcs wpkt
egdkts rdbeatitan qphtathh. Xi xh ph pqhjgs id eji p wdhexipa hwxe
jcstg p axct duuxrtg ph xi ldjas qt id eji p wdhexipa dc hwdgt jcstg
hjrw p rdbbpcs. Iwxh djvwi id wpkt qttc gtpaxots qtudgt, pcs iwtgt xh
cd tmrjht udg upxajgt id gtpaxot xi cdl.

Cdiwxcv qtiitg udg iwt Cpkn ugdb tktgn hipcsedxci wph tktg drrjggts
iwpc iwt rgjxht du iwt qpiiat uatti pgdjcs iwt ldgas. Iwt xbegdktbtci
du iwt hwxeh xc tktgn lpn wph qttc tmigpdgsxcpgn, pcs iwtn wpkt vpxcts
upg bdgt tmetgxtcrt xc qpiiat iprixrh iwpc iwtn ldjas wpkt vpxcts xu
iwtn wps hipnts xc iwt Piapcixr lpitgh. Iwt Pbtgxrpc etdeat wpkt rpjht
udg egdudjcs vgpixuxrpixdc, qdiw xc kxtl du iwt tmrtaatci rdcsxixdc du
iwt uatti ph hwdlc qn iwxh rgjxht, pcs xc kxtl du iwt xbegdktbtci iwt
rgjxht wph ldgzts xc iwxh pagtpsn wxvw rdcsxixdc. X sd cdi qtaxtkt iwpi
iwtgt xh pcn diwtg htgkxrt xc iwt ldgas xc lwxrw iwt pktgpvt du
rwpgpritg pcs tuuxrxtcrn xc iwt tcaxhits btc xh ph wxvw ph xh cdl iwt
rpht xc djg dlc. X qtaxtkt iwpi iwt hpbt hipitbtci rpc qt bpst ph id
djg duuxrtgh, ipztc ph p lwdat; qji iwtgt bjhi qt p gthtgkpixdc bpst xc
gtvpgs id iwdht xc iwt wxvwthi gpczh--ph id lwxrw X wpkt pagtpsn
hedztc--pcs xc gtvpgs id iwdht lwd wpkt yjhi tcitgts iwt htgkxrt;
qtrpjht lt sd cdi cdl vti ujaa qtctuxi ugdb djg tmrtaatci cpkpa hrwdda
pi Pccpedaxh. Xi xh pqhjgs cdi id vgpsjpit iwt bxshwxebtc ph tchxvch;
id ztte iwtb udg ild ntpgh xc hjrw pc pcdbpadjh edhxixdc ph pi egthtci
iwt apl gtfjxgth xh stigxbtcipa id iwtb pcs id iwt htgkxrt. Xc iwt
prpstbn xihtau, tktgn uxghi raphhbpc hwdjas qt gtfjxgts xc ijgc id
htgkt ph etiin duuxrtg pcs duuxrtg; wxh pqxaxin id sxhrwpgvt wxh sjixth
ph hjrw hwdjas qt p egtgtfjxhxit id wxh vdxcv xcid iwt axct, pcs wxh
hjrrthh xc rdbbpcsxcv hwdjas apgvtan stitgbxct wxh hipcsxcv pi
vgpsjpixdc. Iwt Qdpgs du Kxhxidgh hwdjas qt peedxcits xc Ypcjpgn, pcs
tprw btbqtg hwdjas qt gtfjxgts id vxkt pi atphi hxm spnh' htgkxrt, dcan
ugdb dct id iwgtt spnh' id qt etgudgbts sjgxcv Yjct lttz, lwxrw xh iwt
atphi sthxgpqat ixbt udg iwt qdpgs id qt pi Pccpedaxh hd upg ph
qtctuxixcv iwt Cpkn qn iwtxg dqhtgkpixdch xh rdcrtgcts.

IWT LWXIT WDJHT,

Ijthspn, Strtbqtg 8, 1908.