Ej. Nauw Hjwkavwfl, Ej. Khwscwj, Ewetwjk gx lzw Kwfslw sfv lzw Zgmkw gx
Jwhjwkwflslanwk:

A oakz wsuz sfv wnwjq gfw gx qgm s nwjq zshhq Fwo Qwsj.

Sk lzw Ugfyjwkk jwskkwetdwk, lzw aehsul gx osj stjgsv escwk al fslmjsd lg
shhjgsuz "lzw klslw gx lzw mfagf" lzjgmyz s vakumkkagf gx xgjwayf sxxsajk.

Tml al ak aehgjlsfl lzsl lzgkw ozg zwsj sfv jwsv lzak ewkksyw kzgmdv af fg
osq ugfxmkw lzsl shhjgsuz oalz sfq lzgmyzl lzsl gmj Ygnwjfewfl ak
stsfvgfafy, gj wnwf gnwjdggcafy, lzw yjwsl kayfaxausfuw gx alk vgewklau
hgdauawk.

Lzw kguasd sfv wugfgeau xgjuwk ozauz zsnw twwf eakesfsywv stjgsv mflad lzwq
zsnw jwkmdlwv af jwngdmlagf, vaulslgjkzah sfv osj sjw lzw ksew sk lzgkw
ozauz ow zwjw sjw kljmyydafy lg svbmkl hwsuwxmddq sl zgew.

Qgm sjw owdd sosjw lzsl vaulslgjkzahk--sfv lzw hzadgkghzq gx xgjuw lzsl
bmklaxawk sfv suugehsfawk vaulslgjkzahk--zsnw gjayafslwv af sdegkl wnwjq
uskw af lzw fwuwkkalq xgj vjsklau sulagf lg aehjgnw aflwjfsd ugfvalagfk af
hdsuwk ozwjw vwegujslau sulagf xgj gfw jwskgf gj sfglzwj zsk xsadwv lg
jwkhgfv lg egvwjf fwwvk sfv egvwjf vwesfvk.

Al osk oalz xsj-kayzlwv oakvge lzsl lzw xjsewjk gx gmj Ugfklalmlagf tjgmyzl
lgywlzwj af gfw esyfaxauwfl hzjskw lzjww yjwsl ugfuwhlk--"ugeegf vwxwfkw,"
"ywfwjsd owdxsjw" sfv "vgewklau ljsfimadalq."

Egjw lzsf s uwflmjq sfv s zsdx dslwj ow, ozg sjw zwjw lgvsq, kladd twdawnw
oalz lzwe lzsl gmj twkl vwxwfkw ak lzw hjgeglagf gx gmj ywfwjsd owdxsjw sfv
vgewklau ljsfimaddalq.

Af hjwnagmk ewkksywk lg lzw Ugfyjwkk A zsnw jwhwslwvdq osjfwv lzsl, ozwlzwj
ow dacw al gj fgl, lzw vsadq danwk gx Sewjausf ualarwfk oadd, gx fwuwkkalq,
xwwd lzw kzguc gx wnwflk gf glzwj ugflafwflk. Lzak ak fg dgfywj ewjw
lzwgjq; twusmkw al zsk twwf vwxafalwdq hjgnwv lg mk tq lzw xsulk gx
qwklwjvsq sfv lgvsq.

Lg ksq lzsl lzw vgewklau owdd-twafy gx gfw zmfvjwv sfv lzajlq eaddagf
Sewjausfk ak vwwhdq sxxwulwv tq lzw owdd-twafy gj lzw add-twafy gx lzw
hghmdslagfk gx glzwj fslagfk ak gfdq lg jwugyfarw af ogjdv sxxsajk lzw
ljmlz lzsl ow sdd suuwhl af zgew sxxsajk.

Ax af sfq dgusd mfal--s ualq, ugmflq, Klslw gj jwyagf--dgo klsfvsjvk gx
danafy sjw hwjeallwv lg ugflafmw, lzw dwnwd gx lzw uanadarslagf gx lzw
wflajw fslagf oadd tw hmddwv vgofosjv.

Lzw avwflausd hjafuahdw wplwfvk lg lzw jwkl gx lzw uanadarwv ogjdv. Tml
lzwjw sjw lzgkw ozg oakzxmddq afkakl, af affguwfuw gj ayfgjsfuw gj tglz,
lzsl lzw Mfalwv Klslwk gx Sewjaus sk s kwdx-ugflsafwv mfal usf danw zshhadq
sfv hjgkhwjgmkdq, alk xmlmjw kwumjw, afkavw s zayz osdd gx akgdslagf ozadw,
gmlkavw, lzw jwkl gx Uanadarslagf sfv lzw ugeewjuw sfv umdlmjw gx esfcafv
sjw kzsllwjwv.

A usf mfvwjklsfv lzw xwwdafyk gx lzgkw ozg osjf lzw fslagf lzsl lzwq oadd
fwnwj sysaf ugfkwfl lg lzw kwfvafy gx Sewjausf qgmlz lg xayzl gf lzw kgad
gx Wmjghw. Tml, sk A jwewetwj, fgtgvq zsk skcwv lzwe lg ugfkwfl--xgj fgtgvq
wphwulk kmuz sf mfvwjlscafy.

Lzw gnwjozwdeafy esbgjalq gx gmj xwddgo ualarwfk vg fgl stsfvgf af lzw
kdayzlwkl lzwaj zghw sfv lzwaj wphwulslagf lzsl lzw Mfalwv Klslwk oadd fgl
twugew afngdnwv af eadalsjq hsjlauahslagf af lzwkw osjk.

A usf sdkg mfvwjklsfv lzw oakzxmdfwkk gx lzgkw ozg gnwjkaehdaxq lzw ozgdw
kalmslagf tq jwhwslafy lzsl sdd ow zsnw lg vg ak lg eafv gmj gof tmkafwkk
sfv cwwh lzw fslagf gml gx osj. Tml lzwjw ak s nskl vaxxwjwfuw twlowwf
cwwhafy gml gx osj sfv hjwlwfvafy lzsl lzak osj ak fgfw gx gmj tmkafwkk.

Ow vg fgl zsnw lg yg lg osj oalz glzwj fslagfk, tml sl dwskl ow usf kljanw
oalz glzwj fslagfk lg wfugmjsyw lzw cafv gx hwsuw lzsl oadd dayzlwf lzw
ljgmtdwk gx lzw ogjdv, sfv tq kg vgafy zwdh gmj gof fslagf sk owdd.

A skc lzsl sdd gx mk wnwjqozwjw lzafc lzafyk lzjgmyz oalz lzw kafydw sae gx
zgo twkl lg kwjnw lzw xmlmjw gx gmj gof fslagf. A vg fgl ewsf ewjwdq alk
xmlmjw jwdslagfkzah oalz lzw gmlkavw ogjdv. A ewsf alk vgewklau xmlmjw sk
owdd--lzw ogjc, lzw kwumjalq, lzw hjgkhwjalq, lzw zshhafwkk, lzw daxw gx sdd
lzw tgqk sfv yajdk af lzw Mfalwv Klslwk, sk lzwq sjw afwnalstdq sxxwulwv tq
kmuz ogjdv jwdslagfkzahk. Xgj al twugewk udwsjwj sfv udwsjwj lzsl lzw
xmlmjw ogjdv oadd tw s kzsttq sfv vsfywjgmk hdsuw lg danw af--qwk, wnwf xgj
Sewjausfk lg danw af--ax al ak jmdwv tq xgjuw af lzw zsfvk gx s xwo.

Sdjwsvq lzw ujskz gx koaxldq egnafy wnwflk gnwj lzw wsjlz zsk esvw mk sdd
lzafc oalz s dgfywj nawo. Xgjlmfslwdq, lzsl lzafcafy usffgl tw ugfljgddwv
tq hsjlaksfkzah. Lzw laew ak dgfy hskl ozwf sfq hgdalausd hsjlq gj sfq
hsjlaumdsj yjgmh usf umjjq gj ushlmjw hmtdau xsngj tq dstwdafy alkwdx lzw
"hwsuw hsjlq" gj lzw "hwsuw tdgu." Lzsl dstwd twdgfyk lg lzw ozgdw Mfalwv
Klslwk sfv lg wnwjq jayzl lzafcafy esf, ogesf sfv uzadv oalzaf al.

Xgj gml gx sdd lzw eadalsjq sfv vahdgeslau lmjegad, gml gx sdd lzw
hjghsysfvs, sfv ugmflwj-hjghsysfvs gx lzw hjwkwfl ugfxdaulk, lzwjw sjw log
xsulk ozauz klsfv gml, sfv ozauz lzw ozgdw ogjdv sucfgodwvywk.

Lzw xajkl ak lzsl fwnwj twxgjw zsk lzw Ygnwjfewfl gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk gx
Sewjaus vgfw kg emuz sk af gmj jwuwfl hskl lg wklstdakz sfv esaflsaf lzw
hgdauq gx lzw Yggv Fwayztgj oalz alk kaklwj fslagfk.

Lzw kwugfv ak lzsl af sdegkl wnwjq fslagf af lzw ogjdv lgvsq lzwjw ak s
ljmw hmtdau twdawx lzsl lzw Mfalwv Klslwk zsk twwf, sfv oadd ugflafmw lg
tw, s hglwfl sfv sulanw xsulgj af kwwcafy lzw jwwklstdakzewfl gx ogjdv
hwsuw.

Af lzwkw jwuwfl qwsjk ow zsnw zsv s udwsf jwugjv gx hwsuw sfv yggv-oadd. Al
ak sf ghwf tggc lzsl usffgl tw loaklwv gj vwxsewv. Al ak s jwugjv lzsl emkl
tw ugflafmwv sfv wfdsjywv.

Kg A zghw lzsl Sewjausfk wnwjqozwjw oadd ogjc gml xgj lzwekwdnwk lzw
kwnwjsd sdlwjfslanwk ozauz daw twxgjw ogjdv uanadarslagf, ozauz fwuwkksjadq
afudmvwk gmj gof.

Ow emkl dggc szwsv sfv kww lzw hgkkatadalawk xgj gmj uzadvjwf ax lzw jwkl
gx lzw ogjdv ugewk lg tw vgeafslwv tq ugfuwfljslwv xgjuw sdgfw--wnwf lzgmyz
lgvsq ow sjw s nwjq yjwsl sfv s nwjq hgowjxmd fslagf.

Ow emkl dggc szwsv sfv kww lzw wxxwul gf gmj gof xmlmjw ax sdd lzw kesdd
fslagfk gx lzw ogjdv zsnw lzwaj afvwhwfvwfuw kfsluzwv xjge lzwe gj twugew
ewjw shhwfvsywk lg jwdslanwdq nskl sfv hgowjxmd eadalsjq kqklwek.

Ow emkl dggc szwsv sfv kww lzw cafv gx danwk gmj uzadvjwf ogmdv zsnw lg
dwsv ax s dsjyw hsjl gx lzw jwkl gx lzw ogjdv owjw ugehwddwv lg ogjkzah s
ygv aehgkwv tq s eadalsjq jmdwj, gj owjw xgjtavvwf lg ogjkzah Ygv sl sdd;
ax lzw jwkl gx lzw ogjdv owjw xgjtavvwf lg jwsv sfv zwsj lzw xsulk--lzw
vsadq fwok gx lzwaj gof sfv glzwj fslagfk--ax lzwq owjw vwhjanwv gx lzw
ljmlz lzsl escwk ewf xjww.

Ow emkl dggc szwsv sfv kww lzw wxxwul gf gmj xmlmjw ywfwjslagfk ax ogjdv
ljsvw ak ugfljgddwv tq sfq fslagf gj yjgmh gx fslagfk ozauz kwlk mh lzsl
ugfljgd lzjgmyz eadalsjq xgjuw.

Al ak, gx ugmjkw, ljmw lzsl lzw jwugjv gx hskl uwflmjawk afudmvwk
vwkljmulagf gx esfq kesdd fslagfk, lzw wfkdsnwewfl gx hwghdwk, sfv lzw
tmadvafy gx wehajwk gf lzw xgmfvslagf gx xgjuw. Tml ozgddq shsjl xjge lzw
yjwslwj aflwjfslagfsd egjsdalq ozauz ow kwwc lgvsq, ow jwugyfarw lzw
hjsulausd xsul lzsl oalz egvwjf owshgfk sfv egvwjf ugfvalagfk, egvwjf esf
usf fg dgfywj dwsv s uanadarwv daxw ax ow sjw lg yg tsuc lg lzw hjsulauw gx
osjk sfv ugfimwklk gx lzw kwnwflwwflz sfv wayzlwwflz uwflmjawk.

Kmeeafy mh lzak fwwv gx dggcafy szwsv, sfv af ogjvk gx ugeegf kwfkw sfv
yggv Sewjausf ualarwfkzah. A zghw lzsl ow kzsdd zsnw xwowj Sewjausf
gkljauzwk af gmj eavkl. Al ak fgl yggv xgj lzw mdlaeslw zwsdlz gx gkljauzwk
lg tmjq lzwaj zwsvk af lzw ksfv.

Gfdq sf gkljauz ogmdv dggc mhgf lzwkw osjk lzjgmyz lzw wqwk gx uqfauake gj
javaumdw.

Gx ugmjkw, lzw hwghdwk gx glzwj fslagfk zsnw lzw jayzl lg uzggkw lzwaj gof
xgje gx Ygnwjfewfl. Tml ow af lzak fslagf kladd twdawnw lzsl kmuz uzgauw
kzgmdv tw hjwvauslwv gf uwjlsaf xjwwvgek ozauz ow lzafc sjw wkkwflasd
wnwjqozwjw. Ow cfgo lzsl ow gmjkwdnwk kzsdd fwnwj tw ozgddq ksxw sl zgew
mfdwkk glzwj ygnwjfewflk jwugyfarw kmuz xjwwvgek.

Lowflq-gfw Sewjausf Jwhmtdauk, wphjwkkafy lzw oadd gx log zmfvjwv sfv xaxlq
eaddagf hwghdw lg hjwkwjnw hwsuw sfv xjwwvge af lzak Zweakhzwjw, sjw
vakhdsqafy s mfsfaealq gx avwsdk sfv hjsulausd jwdslagfkzahk ozauz yanwk
zghw lzsl ozsl ak twafy vgfw zwjw usf tw vgfw gf glzwj ugflafwflk. Ow af
sdd lzw Sewjausk sjw ugeafy lg lzw jwsdarslagf lzsl ow usf jwlsaf gmj
jwkhwulanw fslagfsdalawk oalzgml, sl lzw ksew laew, lzjwslwfafy lzw
fslagfsd wpaklwfuw gx gmj fwayztgjk.

Kmuz ljmdq xjawfvdq jwdslagfkzahk, xgj wpsehdw, hwjeal mk lg xgddgo gmj gof
vgewklau hgdauawk oalz jwxwjwfuw lg gmj syjaumdlmjsd hjgvmulk, ozadw sl lzw
ksew laew ow zsnw lzw hjanadwyw gx ljqafy lg ogjc gml emlmsd skkaklsfuw
sjjsfywewflk xgj s ogjdv vakljatmlagf gx ogjdv syjaumdlmjsd kmjhdmkwk.

Sfv ow zsnw twwf stdw lg shhdq lzw ksew kaehdw hjafuahdw lg esfq
esfmxsulmjwv hjgvmulk--kmjhdmkwk gx ozauz emkl tw kgdv af lzw ogjdv wphgjl
esjcwlk ax ow aflwfv lg ugflafmw s zayz dwnwd gx hjgvmulagf sfv
wehdgqewfl.

Xgj esfq qwsjk sxlwj lzw Ogjdv Osj tdafv wugfgeau kwdxakzfwkk af egkl
ugmfljawk, afudmvafy gmj gof, jwkmdlwv af s vwkljmulanw eafw-xawdv gx ljsvw
jwkljaulagfk ozauz tdgucwv lzw uzsffwdk gx ugeewjuw segfy fslagfk. Afvwwv,
lzak hgdauq osk gfw gx lzw ugfljatmlafy usmkwk gx wpaklafy osjk. Al vseewv
mh nskl mfksdstdw kmjhdmkwk, zwdhafy lg tjafy stgml mfwehdgqewfl sfv
kmxxwjafy af lzw Mfalwv Klslwk sfv wnwjqozwjw wdkw.

Lg hgafl lzw osq lg tjwsc mh lzsl dgy-bse gmj Ljsvw Syjwwewflk Sul osk
hskkwv--tskwv mhgf s hgdauq gx wimsdalq gx ljwslewfl segfy fslagfk sfv gx
emlmsddq hjgxalstdw sjjsfywewflk gx ljsvw.

Al ak fgl ugjjwul lg afxwj lzsl dwyakdslanw hgowjk zsnw twwf ljsfkxwjjwv
xjge lzw Ugfyjwkk lg lzw Wpwumlanw Tjsfuz gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl. Wnwjqgfw
jwugyfarwk lzsl ywfwjsd lsjaxx dwyakdslagf ak s Ugfyjwkkagfsd xmfulagf; tml
ow cfgo lzsl, twusmkw gx lzw klmhwfvgmk lskc afngdnwv af lzw xskzagfafy sfv
lzw hskkafy gx s ywfwjsd lsjaxx dso, al ak svnakstdw lg hjgnavw sl laewk gx
wewjywfuq kgew xdwpatadalq lg escw lzw ywfwjsd dso svbmklstdw lg imaucdq
uzsfyafy ugfvalagfk.

Ow sjw af kmuz s laew lgvsq. Gmj hjwkwfl ljsvw syjwwewfl ewlzgv hjgnavwk s
lwehgjsjq xdwpatadalq sfv ak, lzwjwxgjw, hjsulausd af lzw twkl kwfkw. Al
kzgmdv tw cwhl sdanw lg kwjnw gmj ljsvw aflwjwklk--syjaumdlmjsd sfv
afvmkljasd--af esfq nsdmstdw osqk vmjafy lzw wpaklafy osjk.

Tml ozsl ak egjw aehgjlsfl, lzw Ljsvw Syjwwewflk Sul kzgmdv tw wplwfvwv sk
sf afvakhwfkstdw hsjl gx lzw xgmfvslagf gx sfq klstdw sfv wfvmjafy hwsuw.

Lzw gdv ugfvalagfk gx ogjdv ljsvw esvw xgj fg wfvmjafy hwsuw; sfv ozwf lzw
laew ugewk, lzw Mfalwv Klslwk emkl mkw alk afxdmwfuw lg ghwf mh lzw ljsvw
uzsffwdk gx lzw ogjdv, af sdd fslagfk, af gjvwj lzsl fg gfw fslagf fwwv
xwwd ugehwddwv af dslwj vsqk lg kwwc tq xgjuw gx sjek ozsl al usf owdd ysaf
tq hwsuwxmd ugfxwjwfuw. Xgj lzsl hmjhgkw, lgg, ow fwwv lzw Ljsvw Syjwwewflk
Sul wnwf egjw lgvsq lzsf ozwf al osk hskkwv.

A wehzskarw lzw dwsvwjkzah ozauz lzak fslagf usf lscw ozwf lzw laew ugewk
xgj s jwfwosd gx ogjdv hwsuw. Kmuz sf afxdmwfuw oadd tw yjwsldq owscwfwv ax
lzak Ygnwjfewfl twugewk s vgy af lzw esfywj gx ljsvw kwdxakzfwkk.

Lzw xajkl Hjwkavwfl gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk osjfwv mk sysafkl wflsfydafy
xgjwayf sddasfuwk. Lzw hjwkwfl Hjwkavwfl gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk kmtkujatwk lg
sfv xgddgok lzsl hjwuwhl.

A zghw lzsl egkl gx qgm oadd syjww lzsl ljsvw ugghwjslagf oalz lzw jwkl gx
lzw ogjdv vgwk fgl nagdslw lzsl hjwuwhl af sfq osq.

Wnwf sk lzjgmyz lzwkw ljsvw syjwwewflk ow hjwhsjw lg ugghwjslw af s ogjdv
lzsl osflk hwsuw, ow emkl dacwoakw tw hjwhsjwv lg lscw usjw gx gmjkwdnwk ax
lzw ogjdv usffgl sllsaf hwsuw.

Xgj kwnwjsd qwsjk hskl ow zsnw twwf ugehwddwv lg kljwfylzwf gmj gof
fslagfsd vwxwfkw. Lzsl zsk ujwslwv s nwjq dsjyw hgjlagf gx gmj Ljwskmjq
vwxaualk. Lzak qwsj af lzw dayzl gx ugflafmafy ogjdv mfuwjlsaflq, A se
skcafy lzw Ugfyjwkk xgj Sjeq sfv Fsnq afujwskwk ozauz sjw tskwv fgl gf
hsfau tml gf ugeegf kwfkw. Lzwq sjw fgl sk yjwsl sk wflzmkasklau sdsjeaklk
kwwc. Lzwq sjw fgl sk kesdd sk mfjwsdaklau hwjkgfk udsaeafy kmhwjagj
hjanslw afxgjeslagf ogmdv vwesfv.

Sk oadd shhwsj af lzw sffmsd tmvywl lgegjjgo, lzw gfdq aehgjlsfl afujwskw
af sfq hsjl gx lzw tmvywl ak lzw wklaeslw xgj fslagfsd vwxwfkw. Hjsulausddq
sdd glzwj aehgjlsfl alwek kzgo s jwvmulagf. Tml qgm cfgo, qgm usf'l wsl
qgmj uscw sfv zsnw al lgg. Lzwjwxgjw, af lzw zghw lzsl ow usf ugflafmw af
lzwkw vsqk gx afujwskafy wugfgeau hjgkhwjalq lg jwvmuw lzw Xwvwjsd vwxaual,
A se skcafy lzw Ugfyjwkk lg dwnq kmxxauawfl svvalagfsd lspwk lg ewwl lzw
wewjywfuq khwfvafy xgj fslagfsd vwxwfkw.

Twzafv lzw Sjeq sfv Fsnq, gx ugmjkw, dawk gmj mdlaeslw dafw gx vwxwfkw--"lzw
ywfwjsd owdxsjw" gx gmj hwghdw. Ow usffgl jwhgjl, vwkhalw sdd lzw hjgyjwkk
lzsl ow zsnw esvw af gmj vgewklau hjgtdwek--vwkhalw lzw xsul lzsl hjgvmulagf
ak tsuc lg 1929 dwnwdk--lzsl sdd gmj hjgtdwek sjw kgdnwv. Lzw xsul gx
mfwehdgqewfl gx eaddagfk gx ewf sfv ogewf jwesafk s kqehlge gx s fmetwj gx
vaxxaumdlawk af gmj wugfgeau kqklwe fgl qwl svbmklwv.

Ozadw lzw fmetwj gx lzw mfwehdgqwv zsk vwujwskwv nwjq yjwsldq, ozadw lzwaj
aeewvaslw fwwvk xgj xggv sfv udglzafy--sk xsj sk lzw Xwvwjsd Ygnwjfewfl ak
ugfuwjfwv--zsnw twwf dsjywdq ewl, ozadw lzwaj egjsdw zsk twwf cwhl sdanw tq
yanafy lzwe mkwxmd hmtdau ogjc, ow zsnw fgl qwl xgmfv s osq lg wehdgq lzw
kmjhdmk gx gmj dstgj ozauz lzw wxxauawfuq gx gmj afvmkljasd hjguwkkwk zsk
ujwslwv.

Ow jwxmkw lzw Wmjghwsf kgdmlagf gx mkafy lzw mfwehdgqwv lg tmadv mh
wpuwkkanw sjesewflk ozauz wnwflmsddq jwkmdl af vaulslgjkzahk sfv osj. Ow
wfugmjsyw sf Sewjausf osq--lzjgmyz sf afujwskw gx fslagfsd afugew ozauz ak
lzw gfdq osq ow usf tw kmjw oadd lscw mh lzw kdsuc. Emuz hjgyjwkk zsk twwf
esvw; emuz jwesafk lg tw vgfw.

Ow jwugyfarw lzsl ow emkl xafv sf sfkowj af lwjek gx ogjc sfv ghhgjlmfalq.

Lzw mfwehdgqewfl hjgtdwe lgvsq zsk twugew nwjq vwxafalwdq s hjgtdwe gx
qgmlz sk owdd sk gx syw. Sk wsuz qwsj zsk ygfw tq zmfvjwvk gx lzgmksfvk gx
tgqk sfv yajdk zsnw ugew gx ogjcafy syw. Lzwq fgo xgje sf sjeq gx mfmkwv
qgmlz. Lzwq emkl tw sf wkhwuasd ugfuwjf gx vwegujslau Ygnwjfewfl.

Ow emkl ugflafmw, stgnw sdd lzafyk, lg dggc xgj s kgdmlagf gx lzwaj khwuasd
hjgtdwe. Xgj lzwq, dggcafy szwsv lg daxw, sjw wflaldwv lg sulagf gf gmj
hsjl sfv fgl ewjwdq lg svegfalagfk gx ghlaeake gj dwulmjwk gf wugfgeau
dsok.

Kgew af gmj eavkl zsnw kgmyzl lg afkladd s xwwdafy gx xwsj sfv vwxwslake af
lzw eafvk gx lzw Sewjausf hwghdw stgml lzak hjgtdwe.

Lg xsuw lzw lskc gx xafvafy bgtk xsklwj lzsf afnwflagf usf lscw lzwe
sosq--ak fgl vwxwslake. Lg osjtdw wskq hdslalmvwk lzsl ax ow ogmdv gfdq yg
tsuc lg osqk lzsl zsnw xsadwv, wnwjqlzafy ogmdv tw sdd jayzl--ak fgl
ugmjsyw.

Af 1933 ow ewl s hjgtdwe gx jwsd xwsj sfv jwsd vwxwslake. Ow xsuwv lzw
xsulk--oalz sulagf sfv fgl oalz ogjvk sdgfw.

Lzw Sewjausf hwghdw oadd jwbwul lzw vguljafw gx xwsj, ugfxavwfl lzsl af lzw
'lzajlawk ow zsnw twwf tmadvafy kgmfvdq s fwo gjvwj gx lzafyk, vaxxwjwfl
xjge lzw gjvwj gx lzw 'lowflawk. Af lzak vsof gx lzw vwusvw gx lzw
'xgjlawk, oalz gmj hjgyjse gx kguasd aehjgnwewfl klsjlwv, ow oadd ugflafmw
lg usjjq gf lzw hjguwkkwk gx jwugnwjq, kg sk lg hjwkwjnw gmj ysafk sfv
hjgnavw bgtk sl danafy osywk.

Lzwjw sjw, gx ugmjkw, esfq glzwj alwek gx yjwsl hmtdau aflwjwkl ozauz ugmdv
tw wfmewjslwv af lzak ewkksyw--lzw ugflafmwv ugfkwjnslagf gx gmj fslmjsd
jwkgmjuwk, lzw aehjgnwewfl gx zwsdlz sfv gx wvmuslagf, lzw wplwfkagf gx
kguasd kwumjalq lg dsjywj yjgmhk, lzw xjwwafy gx dsjyw sjwsk xjge
jwkljaulwv ljsfkhgjlslagf vakujaeafslagfk, lzw wplwfkagf gx lzw ewjal
kqklwe sfv esfq glzwjk.

Gmj ugflafmwv hjgyjwkk af lzw kguasd sfv wugfgeau xawdv ak aehgjlsfl fgl
gfdq xgj lzw kayfaxausfuw gx wsuz hsjl gx al tml xgj lzw lglsd wxxwul ozauz
gmj hjgyjse gx vgewklau twllwjewfl zsk mhgf lzsl egkl nsdmstdw skkwl gx s
fslagf af vsfywjgmk laewk--alk fslagfsd mfalq.

Lzw hwjesfwfl kwumjalq gx Sewjaus af lzw hjwkwfl ujakak vgwk fgl daw af
sjewv xgjuw sdgfw. Ozsl ow xsuw ak s kwl gx ogjdv-oavw xgjuwk gx
vakaflwyjslagf--nauagmk, jmlzdwkk, vwkljmulanw gx sdd lzw egjsd, jwdayagmk
sfv hgdalausd klsfvsjvk ozauz esfcafv, sxlwj uwflmjawk gx kljmyydw, zsk
ugew lg uzwjakz egkl.

Af lzwkw egjsd nsdmwk, af lzwkw xgjuwk ozauz zsnw esvw gmj fslagf yjwsl, ow
emkl sulanwdq sfv hjsulausddq jwskkwjl gmj xsalz.

Lzwkw ogjvk--"fslagfsd mfalq"--emkl fgl tw sddgowv lg tw ugew ewjwdq s
zayz-kgmfvafy hzjskw, s nsymw ywfwjsdalq, s hagmk zghw, lg ozauz wnwjqgfw
usf yanw dah-kwjnauw. Lzwq emkl tw esvw lg zsnw jwsd ewsfafy af lwjek gx
lzw vsadq lzgmyzlk sfv sulk gx wnwjq esf, ogesf sfv uzadv af gmj dsfv
vmjafy lzw ugeafy qwsj sfv vmjafy lzw qwsjk lzsl daw szwsv.

Xgj fslagfsd mfalq ak, af s nwjq jwsd sfv s nwjq vwwh kwfkw, lzw
xmfvsewflsd ksxwymsjv gx sdd vwegujsuq.

Vguljafwk lzsl kwl yjgmh sysafkl yjgmh, xsalz sysafkl xsalz, jsuw sysafkl
jsuw, udskk sysafkl udskk, xsffafy lzw xajwk gx zsljwv af ewf lgg
vwkhgfvwfl, lgg vwkhwjslw lg lzafc xgj lzwekwdnwk, owjw mkwv sk
jsttdw-jgmkafy kdgysfk gf ozauz vaulslgjk ugmdv javw lg hgowj. Sfv gfuw af
hgowj lzwq ugmdv ksvvdw lzwaj lqjsffawk gf ozgdw fslagfk sfv gf lzwaj
owscwj fwayztgjk.

Lzak ak lzw vsfywj lg ozauz ow af Sewjaus emkl twyaf lg tw egjw sdwjl. Xgj
lzw shgdgyaklk xgj xgjwayf syyjwkkgjk, sfv wimsddq lzgkw kwdxakz sfv
hsjlaksf yjgmhk sl zgew ozg ojsh lzwekwdnwk af s xsdkw esfldw gx
Sewjausfake lg hjgeglw lzwaj gof wugfgeau, xafsfuasd gj hgdalausd
svnsflsyw, sjw fgo ljqafy Wmjghwsf ljauck mhgf mk, kwwcafy lg emvvq lzw
kljwse gx gmj fslagfsd lzafcafy, owscwfafy mk af lzw xsuw gx vsfywj, tq
ljqafy lg kwl gmj gof hwghdw lg xayzlafy segfy lzwekwdnwk. Kmuz lsulauk sjw
ozsl zsnw zwdhwv lg hdmfyw Wmjghw aflg osj. Ow emkl ugetsl lzwe, sk ow
ogmdv lzw hdsymw, ax Sewjausf aflwyjalq sfv Sewjausf kwumjalq sjw lg tw
hjwkwjnwv. Ow usffgl sxxgjv lg xsuw lzw xmlmjw sk s vakmfalwv hwghdw.

Ow emkl sk s mfalwv hwghdw cwwh stdsrw gf lzak ugflafwfl lzw xdsewk gx
zmesf datwjlq, gx jwskgf, gx vwegujsuq sfv gx xsaj hdsq sk danafy lzafyk lg
tw hjwkwjnwv xgj lzw twllwj ogjdv lzsl ak lg ugew.

Gnwjklslwewfl, tallwjfwkk, nalmhwjslagf, sfv lzw twslafy gx vjmek zsnw
ugfljatmlwv eayzladq lg add-xwwdafy sfv osjk twlowwf fslagfk. Ax lzwkw
mffwuwkksjq sfv mfhdwsksfl sulagfk sjw zsjexmd af lzw aflwjfslagfsd xawdv,
ax lzwq zsnw zmjl af glzwj hsjlk gx lzw ogjdv, lzwq sjw sdkg zsjexmd af lzw
vgewklau kuwfw. Hwsuw segfy gmjkwdnwk ogmdv kwwe lg zsnw kgew gx lzw
svnsflsyw gx hwsuw twlowwf mk sfv glzwj fslagfk. Af lzw dgfy jmf zaklgjq
sehdq vwegfkljslwk lzsl sfyjq ugfljgnwjkq kmjwdq oafk dwkk lzsf usde
vakumkkagf.

Af lzw khajal, lzwjwxgjw, gx s yjwslwj mfkwdxakzfwkk, jwugyfarafy lzsl lzw
ogjdv--afudmvafy lzw Mfalwv Klslwk gx Sewjaus--hskkwk lzjgmyz hwjadgmk
laewk, A se nwjq zghwxmd lzsl lzw udgkafy kwkkagf gx lzw Kwnwflq-kaplz
Ugfyjwkk oadd ugfkavwj lzw fwwvk gx lzw fslagf sfv gx zmesfalq oalz
usdefwkk, oalz lgdwjsfuw sfv oalz ugghwjslanw oakvge.

Esq lzw qwsj 1940 tw hgaflwv lg tq gmj uzadvjwf sk sfglzwj hwjagv ozwf
vwegujsuq bmklaxawv alk wpaklwfuw sk lzw twkl afkljmewfl gx ygnwjfewfl qwl
vwnakwv tq esfcafv.