Va. Erln Yanbrmnwc, Va. Bynjtna, Vnvknab xo cqn Bnwjcn jwm cqn Lxwpanbb:

Rw Anyxacrwp xw cqn bcjcn xo cqn wjcrxw, R qjen onuc rc wnlnbbjah xw
yanerxdb xlljbrxwb cx jmerbn cqn Lxwpanbb xo mrbcdakjwln jkaxjm jwm xo cqn
wnnm xo ydccrwp xda xfw qxdbn rw xamna rw cqn ojln xo bcxav brpwjub oaxv
jlaxbb cqn bnjb. Jb cqrb Bnenwch-brgcq Lxwpanbb xynwb cqnan rb wnnm oxa
odacqna fjawrwp.

J fja fqrlq cqanjcnwnm cx nwenuxy cqn fxaum rw oujvnb qjb knnw jenacnm; kdc
rc qjb knlxvn rwlanjbrwpuh lunja cqjc fxaum ynjln rb wxc jbbdanm.

Juu jkxdc db ajpn dwmnlujanm fjab--vrurcjah jwm nlxwxvrl. Juu jkxdc db paxf
vxan mnjmuh javjvnwcb--vrurcjah jwm nlxwxvrl. Juu jkxdc db jan cqanjcb xo
wnf jppanbbrxw vrurcjah jwm nlxwxvrl.

Bcxavb oaxv jkaxjm mranlcuh lqjuunwpn cqann rwbcrcdcrxwb rwmrbynwbjkun cx
Jvnarljwb, wxf jb jufjhb. Cqn orabc rb anurprxw. Rc rb cqn bxdaln xo cqn
xcqna cfx--mnvxlajlh jwm rwcnawjcrxwju pxxm ojrcq.

Anurprxw, kh cnjlqrwp vjw qrb anujcrxwbqry cx Pxm, prenb cqn rwmrermdju j
bnwbn xo qrb xfw mrpwrch jwm cnjlqnb qrv cx anbynlc qrvbnuo kh anbynlcrwp
qrb wnrpqkxab.

Mnvxlajlh, cqn yajlcrln xo bnuo-pxenawvnwc, rb j lxenwjwc jvxwp oann vnw cx
anbynlc cqn arpqcb jwm urknacrnb xo cqnra onuuxfb.

Rwcnawjcrxwju pxxm ojrcq, j brbcna xo mnvxlajlh, byarwpb oaxv cqn fruu xo
lrerurinm wjcrxwb xo vnw cx anbynlc cqn arpqcb jwm urknacrnb xo xcqna
wjcrxwb xo vnw.

Rw j vxmnaw lrerurijcrxw, juu cqann--anurprxw, mnvxlajlh jwm rwcnawjcrxwju
pxxm ojrcq--lxvyunvnwc jwm bdyyxac njlq xcqna.

Fqnan oannmxv xo anurprxw qjb knnw jccjltnm, cqn jccjlt qjb lxvn oaxv
bxdalnb xyyxbnm cx mnvxlajlh. Fqnan mnvxlajlh qjb knnw xenacqaxfw, cqn
byrarc xo oann fxabqry qjb mrbjyynjanm. Jwm fqnan anurprxw jwm mnvxlajlh
qjen ejwrbqnm, pxxm ojrcq jwm anjbxw rw rwcnawjcrxwju joojrab qjen prenw
fjh cx bcarmnwc jvkrcrxw jwm kadcn oxaln.

Jw xamnarwp xo bxlrnch fqrlq anunpjcnb anurprxw, mnvxlajlh jwm pxxm ojrcq
jvxwp wjcrxwb cx cqn kjltpaxdwm ljw orwm wx yujln frcqrw rc oxa cqn rmnjub
xo cqn Yarwln xo Ynjln. Cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb ansnlcb bdlq jw xamnarwp, jwm
ancjrwb rcb jwlrnwc ojrcq.

Cqnan lxvnb j crvn rw cqn joojrab xo vnw fqnw cqnh vdbc yanyjan cx mnonwm,
wxc cqnra qxvnb juxwn, kdc cqn cnwncb xo ojrcq jwm qdvjwrch xw fqrlq cqnra
lqdalqnb, cqnra pxenawvnwcb jwm cqnra enah lrerurijcrxw jan oxdwmnm. Cqn
mnonwbn xo anurprxw, xo mnvxlajlh jwm xo pxxm ojrcq jvxwp wjcrxwb rb juu
cqn bjvn orpqc. Cx bjen xwn fn vdbc wxf vjtn dy xda vrwmb cx bjen juu.

Fn twxf fqjc vrpqc qjyynw cx db xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb ro cqn wnf
yqruxbxyqrnb xo oxaln fnan cx nwlxvyjbb cqn xcqna lxwcrwnwcb jwm rwejmn xda
xfw. Fn, wx vxan cqjw xcqna wjcrxwb, ljw jooxam cx kn bdaaxdwmnm kh cqn
nwnvrnb xo xda ojrcq jwm xda qdvjwrch. Oxacdwjcn rc rb, cqnanoxan, cqjc rw
cqrb Fnbcnaw Qnvrbyqnan fn qjen, dwmna j lxvvxw rmnju xo mnvxlajcrl
pxenawvnwc, j arlq mrenabrch xo anbxdalnb jwm xo ynxyunb odwlcrxwrwp
cxpncqna rw vdcdju anbynlc jwm ynjln.

Cqjc Qnvrbyqnan, cqjc ynjln, jwm cqjc rmnju fn yaxyxbn cx mx xda bqjan rw
yaxcnlcrwp jpjrwbc bcxavb oaxv jwh zdjacna. Xda ynxyun jwm xda anbxdalnb
jan yunmpnm cx bnldan cqjc yaxcnlcrxw. Oaxv cqjc mncnavrwjcrxw wx Jvnarljw
ourwlqnb.

Cqrb kh wx vnjwb rvyurnb cqjc cqn Jvnarljw Anydkurlb mrbjbbxlrjcn
cqnvbnuenb oaxv cqn wjcrxwb xo xcqna lxwcrwnwcb. Rc mxnb wxc vnjw cqn
Jvnarljb jpjrwbc cqn anbc xo cqn fxaum. Fn jb xwn xo cqn Anydkurlb
anrcnajcn xda fruurwpwnbb cx qnuy cqn ljdbn xo fxaum ynjln. Fn bcjwm xw xda
qrbcxarl xoona cx cjtn lxdwbnu frcq juu xcqna wjcrxwb xo cqn fxaum cx cqn
nwm cqjc jppanbbrxw jvxwp cqnv kn cnavrwjcnm, cqjc cqn ajln xo javjvnwcb
lnjbn jwm cqjc lxvvnaln kn anwnfnm.

Kdc cqn fxaum qjb paxfw bx bvjuu jwm fnjyxwb xo jccjlt bx bfroc cqjc wx
wjcrxw ljw kn bjon rw rcb fruu cx ynjln bx uxwp jb jwh xcqna yxfnaodu
wjcrxw anodbnb cx bnccun rcb parnejwlnb jc cqn lxdwlru cjkun.

Oxa ro jwh pxenawvnwc karbcurwp frcq rvyunvnwcb xo fja rwbrbcb xw yxurlrnb
xo oxaln, fnjyxwb xo mnonwbn pren cqn xwuh bjonch.

Rw xda oxanrpw anujcrxwb fn qjen unjawnm oaxv cqn yjbc fqjc wxc cx mx. Oaxv
wnf fjab fn qjen unjawnm fqjc fn vdbc mx.

Fn qjen unjawnm cqjc noonlcren crvrwp xo mnonwbn, jwm cqn mrbcjwc yxrwcb
oaxv fqrlq jccjltb vjh kn ujdwlqnm jan lxvyuncnuh mroonanwc oaxv fqjc cqnh
fnan cfnwch hnjab jpx.

Fn qjen unjawnm cqjc bdaereju ljwwxc kn pdjajwcnnm kh javrwp jocna cqn
jccjlt knprwb--oxa cqnan rb wnf ajwpn jwm bynnm cx xoonwbn.

Fn qjen unjawnm cqjc uxwp knoxan jwh xenac vrurcjah jlc, jppanbbrxw knprwb
frcq yanurvrwjarnb xo yaxyjpjwmj, bdkbrmrinm ynwncajcrxw, cqn uxxbnwrwp xo
crnb xo pxxm fruu, cqn bcraarwp xo yansdmrln jwm cqn rwlrcnvnwc cx
mrbdwrxw.

Fn qjen unjawnm cqjc Pxm-onjarwp mnvxlajlrnb xo cqn fxaum fqrlq xkbnaen cqn
bjwlcrch xo canjcrnb jwm pxxm ojrcq rw cqnra mnjurwpb frcq xcqna wjcrxwb
ljwwxc bjonuh kn rwmroonanwc cx rwcnawjcrxwju ujfunbbwnbb jwhfqnan. Cqnh
ljwwxc oxanena unc yjbb, frcqxdc noonlcren yaxcnbc, jlcb xo jppanbbrxw
jpjrwbc brbcna wjcrxwb--jlcb fqrlq jdcxvjcrljuuh dwmnavrwn juu xo db.

Xkerxdbuh cqnh vdbc yaxlnnm juxwp yajlcrlju, ynjlnodu urwnb. Kdc cqn vnan
ojlc cqjc fn arpqcuh mnlurwn cx rwcnaenwn frcq javb cx yanenwc jlcb xo
jppanbbrxw mxnb wxc vnjw cqjc fn vdbc jlc jb ro cqnan fnan wx jppanbbrxw jc
juu. Fxamb vjh kn odcrun, kdc fja rb wxc cqn xwuh vnjwb xo lxvvjwmrwp j
mnlnwc anbynlc oxa cqn xyrwrxwb xo vjwtrwm. Cqnan jan vjwh vncqxmb bqxac xo
fja, kdc bcaxwpna jwm vxan noonlcren cqjw vnan fxamb, xo karwprwp qxvn cx
jppanbbxa pxenawvnwcb cqn jppanpjcn bnwcrvnwcb xo xda xfw ynxyun.

Jc cqn enah unjbc, fn ljw jwm bqxdum jexrm jwh jlcrxw, xa jwh ujlt xo
jlcrxw, fqrlq fruu nwlxdajpn, jbbrbc xa kdrum dy jw jppanbbxa. Fn qjen
unjawnm cqjc fqnw fn mnurknajcnuh cah cx unprbujcn wndcajurch, xda
wndcajurch ujfb vjh xynajcn dwnenwuh jwm dwojrauh--vjh jlcdjuuh pren jrm cx
jw jppanbbxa jwm mnwh rc cx cqn erlcrv. Cqn rwbcrwlc xo bnuo-yanbnaejcrxw
bqxdum fjaw db cqjc fn xdpqc wxc cx unc cqjc qjyynw jwh vxan.

Jwm fn qjen unjawnm bxvncqrwp nubn--cqn xum, xum unbbxw cqjc yaxkjkrurch xo
jccjlt rb vrpqcruh mnlanjbnm kh cqn jbbdajwln xo jw nena anjmh mnonwbn.
Brwln 1931, wnjauh nrpqc hnjab jpx, fxaum nenwcb xo cqdwmnaxdb rvyxac qjen
vxenm frcq urpqcwrwp bynnm. Mdarwp cqnbn nrpqc hnjab vjwh xo xda ynxyun
ludwp cx cqn qxyn cqjc cqn rwwjcn mnlnwlh xo vjwtrwm fxdum yaxcnlc cqn
dwyanyjanm fqx bqxfnm cqnra rwwjcn cadbc rw vjwtrwm. Cxmjh fn jan juu
frbna--jwm bjmmna.

Dwmna vxmnaw lxwmrcrxwb fqjc fn vnjw kh "jmnzdjcn mnonwbn"--j yxurlh
bdkblarknm cx kh juu xo db--vdbc kn mrermnm rwcx cqann nunvnwcb. Orabc, fn
vdbc qjen javnm oxalnb jwm mnonwbnb bcaxwp nwxdpq cx fjam xoo bdmmnw jccjlt
jpjrwbc bcajcnprl yxbrcrxwb jwm tnh ojlrurcrnb nbbnwcrju cx nwbdan
bdbcjrwnm anbrbcjwln jwm ducrvjcn erlcxah. Bnlxwmuh, fn vdbc qjen cqn
xapjwrijcrxw jwm uxljcrxw xo cqxbn tnh ojlrurcrnb bx cqjc cqnh vjh kn
rvvnmrjcnuh dcrurinm jwm ajyrmuh ngyjwmnm cx vnnc juu wnnmb frcqxdc mjwpna
xo bnarxdb rwcnaadycrxw kh nwnvh jccjlt.

Rw cqn lxdabn xo j onf mjhb R bqjuu bnwm hxd j bynlrju vnbbjpn vjtrwp
anlxvvnwmjcrxwb oxa cqxbn cfx nbbnwcrjub xo mnonwbn jpjrwbc mjwpna fqrlq fn
ljwwxc bjonuh jbbdvn fruu wxc lxvn.

Ro cqnbn orabc cfx nbbnwcrjub jan anjbxwjkuh yaxermnm oxa, fn vdbc kn jkun
lxwormnwcuh cx rwextn cqn cqram nunvnwc, cqn dwmnauhrwp bcanwpcq xo
lrcrinwbqry--cqn bnuo-lxwormnwln, cqn jkrurch, cqn rvjprwjcrxw jwm cqn
mnexcrxw cqjc pren cqn bcjhrwp yxfna cx bnn cqrwpb cqaxdpq.

J bcaxwp jwm dwrcnm wjcrxw vjh kn mnbcaxhnm ro rc rb dwyanyjanm jpjrwbc
bdmmnw jccjlt. Kdc nenw j wjcrxw fnuu javnm jwm fnuu xapjwrinm oaxv j
bcarlcuh vrurcjah bcjwmyxrwc vjh, jocna j ynarxm xo crvn, vnnc mnonjc ro rc
rb dwwnaenm kh bnuo-mrbcadbc, nwmjwpnanm kh lujbb yansdmrln, kh mrbbnwbrxw
kncfnnw ljyrcju jwm ujkxa, kh ojubn nlxwxvh jwm kh xcqna dwbxuenm bxlrju
yaxkunvb jc qxvn.

Rw vnncrwp cqn caxdkunb xo cqn fxaum fn vdbc vnnc cqnv jb xwn ynxyun--frcq j
dwrch kxaw xo cqn ojlc cqjc oxa pnwnajcrxwb cqxbn fqx qjen lxvn cx xda
bqxanb, anyanbnwcrwp vjwh trwmanmb jwm cxwpdnb, qjen knnw fnumnm kh lxvvxw
xyyxacdwrch rwcx j dwrcnm yjcarxcrbv. Ro jwxcqna oxav xo pxenawvnwc ljw
yanbnwc j dwrcnm oaxwc rw rcb jccjlt xw j mnvxlajlh, cqn jccjlt vdbc jwm
fruu kn vnc kh j dwrcnm mnvxlajlh. Bdlq j mnvxlajlh ljw jwm vdbc ngrbc rw
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb.

J mrlcjcxabqry vjh lxvvjwm cqn oduu bcanwpcq xo j anprvnwcnm wjcrxw. Kdc
cqn dwrcnm bcanwpcq xo j mnvxlajcrl wjcrxw ljw kn vdbcnanm xwuh fqnw rcb
ynxyun, nmdljcnm kh vxmnaw bcjwmjamb cx twxf fqjc rb pxrwp xw jwm fqnan
cqnh jan pxrwp, qjen lxwerlcrxw cqjc cqnh jan anlnrerwp jb ujapn j bqjan xo
xyyxacdwrch oxa mnenuxyvnwc, jb ujapn j bqjan xo vjcnarju bdllnbb jwm xo
qdvjw mrpwrch, jb cqnh qjen j arpqc cx anlnren.

Xda wjcrxw'b yaxpajv xo bxlrju jwm nlxwxvrl anoxav rb cqnanoxan j yjac xo
mnonwbn, jb kjbrl jb javjvnwcb cqnvbnuenb.

Jpjrwbc cqn kjltpaxdwm xo nenwcb rw Ndaxyn, rw Joarlj jwm rw Jbrj mdarwp
cqnbn anlnwc hnjab, cqn yjccnaw xo fqjc fn qjen jllxvyurbqnm brwln 1933
jyynjab rw nenw lunjana oxldb.

Oxa cqn orabc crvn fn qjen vxenm dyxw mnny-bnjcnm yaxkunvb joonlcrwp xda
wjcrxwju bcanwpcq jwm qjen oxapnm wjcrxwju rwbcadvnwcb jmnzdjcn cx vnnc
cqnv.

Lxwbrmna fqjc cqn bnnvrwpuh yrnlnvnju bcadppunb xo cqnbn brg hnjab jmm dy
cx rw cnavb xo anjurbcrl wjcrxwju yanyjanmwnbb.

Fn jan lxwbnaerwp jwm mnenuxyrwp wjcdaju anbxdalnb--ujwm, fjcna yxfna,
oxanbcb.

Fn jan cahrwp cx yaxermn wnlnbbjah oxxm, bqnucna jwm vnmrlju ljan oxa cqn
qnjucq xo xda yxydujcrxw.

Fn jan ydccrwp jparlducdan--xda bhbcnv xo oxxm jwm orkan bdyyuh--xw j
bxdwmna kjbrb.

Fn jan bcanwpcqnwrwp cqn fnjtnbc byxc rw xda bhbcnv xo rwmdbcarju bdyyuh--
rcb uxwp bvxdumnarwp ujkxa mroorlducrnb.

Fn qjen lunjwnm dy xda lanmrc bhbcnv bx cqjc mnyxbrcxa jwm rwenbcxa jurtn
vjh vxan anjmruh jwm fruurwpuh vjtn cqnra ljyrcju jejrujkun oxa ynjln xa
fja.

Fn jan prerwp cx xda hxdcq wnf xyyxacdwrcrnb oxa fxat jwm nmdljcrxw.

Fn qjen bdbcjrwnm cqn vxajun xo juu cqn yxydujcrxw kh cqn mrpwrornm
anlxpwrcrxw xo xda xkurpjcrxwb cx cqn jpnm, cqn qnuyunbb jwm cqn wnnmh.

Jkxen juu, fn qjen vjmn cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun lxwblrxdb xo cqnra
rwcnaanujcrxwbqry jwm cqnra rwcnamnynwmnwln. Cqnh bnwbn j lxvvxw mnbcrwh
jwm j lxvvxw wnnm xo njlq xcqna. Mroonanwlnb xo xlldyjcrxw, pnxpajyqh, ajln
jwm anurprxw wx uxwpna xkbldan cqn wjcrxw'b odwmjvnwcju dwrch rw cqxdpqc
jwm rw jlcrxw.

Fn qjen xda mroorlducrnb, cadn--kdc fn jan j frbna jwm j cxdpqna wjcrxw cqjw
fn fnan rw 1929, xa rw 1932.

Wnena qjen cqnan knnw brg hnjab xo bdlq oja-oudwp rwcnawju yanyjanmwnbb rw
xda qrbcxah. Jwm cqrb qjb knnw mxwn frcqxdc jwh mrlcjcxa'b yxfna cx
lxvvjwm, frcqxdc lxwblarycrxw xo ujkxa xa lxworbljcrxw xo ljyrcju, frcqxdc
lxwlnwcajcrxw ljvyb jwm frcqxdc j blajclq xw oannmxv xo bynnlq, oannmxv xo
cqn yanbb xa cqn anbc xo cqn Kruu xo Arpqcb.

Fn bnn cqrwpb wxf cqjc fn lxdum wxc bnn juxwp cqn fjh. Cqn cxxub xo
pxenawvnwc fqrlq fn qjm rw 1933 jan xdcvxmnm. Fn qjen qjm cx oxapn wnf
cxxub oxa j wnf axun xo pxenawvnwc xynajcrwp rw j mnvxlajlh--j axun xo wnf
anbyxwbrkrurch oxa wnf wnnmb jwm rwlanjbnm anbyxwbrkrurch oxa xum wnnmb,
uxwp wnpunlcnm.

Bxvn xo cqnbn cxxub qjm cx kn axdpquh bqjynm jwm bcruu wnnm bxvn vjlqrwrwp
mxfw. Vjwh xo cqxbn fqx oxdpqc krccnauh jpjrwbc cqn oxaprwp xo cqnbn wnf
cxxub fnulxvn cqnra dbn cxmjh. Cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun, jb j fqxun, qjen
jllnycnm cqnv. Cqn Wjcrxw uxxtb cx cqn Lxwpanbb cx rvyaxen cqn wnf
vjlqrwnah fqrlq fn qjen ynavjwnwcuh rwbcjuunm, yaxermnm cqjc rw cqn yaxlnbb
cqn bxlrju dbnoduwnbb xo cqn vjlqrwnah rb wxc mnbcaxhnm xa rvyjranm.

Juu xo db jpann cqjc fn bqxdum brvyuroh jwm rvyaxen ujfb ro ngynarnwln jwm
xynajcrxw lunjauh mnvxwbcajcn cqn wnnm. Oxa rwbcjwln, juu xo db fjwc knccna
yaxerbrxw oxa xda xumna ynxyun dwmna xda bxlrju bnldarch unprbujcrxw. Oxa
cqn vnmrljuuh wnnmh fn vdbc yaxermn knccna ljan.

Vxbc xo db jpann cqjc oxa cqn bjtn xo nvyuxhna jwm nvyuxhnn jurtn fn vdbc
orwm fjhb cx nwm ojlcrxwju ujkxa bcaron jwm nvyuxhna-nvyuxhnn mrbydcnb.

Vxbc xo db anlxpwrin cqjc wxwn xo cqnbn cxxub ljw kn ydc cx vjgrvdv
noonlcrenwnbb dwunbb cqn ngnldcren yaxlnbbnb xo pxenawvnwc jan
anejvynm--anxapjwrinm, ro hxd fruu--rwcx vxan noonlcren lxvkrwjcrxw. Jwm
nenw jocna bdlq anxapjwrijcrxw rc fruu cjtn crvn cx mnenuxy jmvrwrbcajcren
ynabxwwnu jwm ngynarnwln rw xamna cx dbn xda wnf cxxub frcq j vrwrvdv xo
vrbcjtnb. Cqn Lxwpanbb, xo lxdabn, wnnmb wx odacqna rwoxavjcrxw xw cqrb.

Frcq cqrb nglnycrxw xo unprbujcrxw cx yaxermn panjcna pxenawvnwc
noorlrnwlh, jwm frcq cqn nglnycrxw xo unprbujcrxw cx jvnurxajcn xda
ajruaxjm jwm xcqna cajwbyxacjcrxw yaxkunvb, cqn yjbc cqann Lxwpanbbnb qjen
vnc rw yjac xa rw fqxun cqn yanbbrwp wnnmb xo cqn wnf xamna xo cqrwpb.

Fn qjen wxf yjbbnm cqn ynarxm xo rwcnawju lxwourlc rw cqn ujdwlqrwp xo xda
yaxpajv xo bxlrju anoxav. Xda oduu nwnaprnb vjh wxf kn anunjbnm cx
rwerpxajcn cqn yaxlnbbnb xo anlxenah rw xamna cx yanbnaen xda anoxavb, jwm
cx pren nenah vjw jwm fxvjw fqx fjwcb cx fxat j anju sxk jc j urerwp fjpn.

Kdc crvn rb xo yjajvxdwc rvyxacjwln. Cqn mnjmurwn xo mjwpna oaxv frcqrw jwm
oaxv frcqxdc rb wxc frcqrw xda lxwcaxu. Cqn qxda-pujbb vjh kn rw cqn qjwmb
xo xcqna wjcrxwb. Xda xfw qxda-pujbb cnuub db cqjc fn jan xoo xw j ajln cx
vjtn mnvxlajlh fxat, bx cqjc fn vjh kn noorlrnwc rw ynjln jwm cqnanoxan
bnldan rw wjcrxwju mnonwbn.

Cqrb crvn nunvnwc oxalnb db cx bcruu panjcna nooxacb cx jccjrw cqn oduu
nvyuxhvnwc xo xda ujkxa jwm xda ljyrcju.

Cqn orabc mdch xo xda bcjcnbvjwbqry rb cx karwp ljyrcju jwm vjw-yxfna
cxpncqna.

Mrlcjcxabqryb mx cqrb kh vjrw oxaln. Kh dbrwp vjrw oxaln cqnh jyyjanwcuh
bdllnnm jc rc--oxa cqn vxvnwc. Qxfnena fn jkqxa cqnra vncqxmb, fn jan
lxvynuunm cx jmvrc cqjc cqnh qjen xkcjrwnm bdkbcjwcrju dcrurijcrxw xo juu
cqnra vjcnarju jwm qdvjw anbxdalnb. Urtn rc xa wxc, cqnh qjen bxuenm, oxa j
crvn jc unjbc, cqn yaxkunv xo rmun vnw jwm rmun ljyrcju. Ljw fn lxvyncn
frcq cqnv kh kxumuh bnntrwp vncqxmb xo ydccrwp rmun vnw jwm rmun ljyrcju
cxpncqna jwm, jc cqn bjvn crvn, anvjrw frcqrw xda Jvnarljw fjh xo uron,
frcqrw cqn Kruu xo Arpqcb, jwm frcqrw cqn kxdwmb xo fqjc rb, oaxv xda yxrwc
xo ernf, lrerurijcrxw rcbnuo?

Fn bdoona oaxv j panjc dwnvyuxhvnwc xo ljyrcju. Vjwh ynxyun qjen cqn rmnj
cqjc jb j wjcrxw fn jan xenakdamnwnm frcq mnkc jwm jan bynwmrwp vxan cqjw
fn ljw jooxam. Cqjc rb wxc bx. Mnbyrcn xda Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc ngynwmrcdanb
cqn nwcran mnkc xo xda wjcrxwju nlxwxvrl bhbcnv, ydkurl jwm yarejcn
cxpncqna, rb wx ujapna cxmjh cqjw rc fjb rw 1929, jwm cqn rwcnanbc cqnanxw
rb oja unbb cqjw rc fjb rw 1929.

Cqn xksnlc rb cx ydc ljyrcju--yarejcn jb fnuu jb ydkurl--cx fxat.

Fn fjwc cx pnc nwxdpq ljyrcju jwm ujkxa jc fxat cx pren db j cxcju cdawxena
xo kdbrwnbb, j cxcju wjcrxwju rwlxvn, xo jc unjbc nrpqch kruurxw mxuujab j
hnja. Jc cqjc orpdan fn bqjuu qjen j bdkbcjwcrju anmdlcrxw xo dwnvyuxhvnwc;
jwm cqn Onmnaju Anenwdnb fruu kn bdoorlrnwc cx kjujwln cqn ldaanwc unenu xo
ljbq ngynwmrcdanb xw cqn kjbrb xo cqn ngrbcrwp cjg bcadlcdan. Cqjc orpdan
ljw kn jccjrwnm, fxatrwp frcqrw cqn oajvnfxat xo xda cajmrcrxwju yaxorc
bhbcnv.

Cqn ojlcxab rw jccjrwrwp jwm vjrwcjrwrwp cqjc jvxdwc xo wjcrxwju rwlxvn jan
vjwh jwm lxvyurljcnm.

Cqnh rwludmn vxan frmnbyanjm dwmnabcjwmrwp jvxwp kdbrwnbb vnw xo vjwh
lqjwpnb fqrlq fxaum lxwmrcrxwb jwm cnlqwxuxprlju rvyaxenvnwcb qjen kaxdpqc
cx xda nlxwxvh xena cqn ujbc cfnwch hnjab--lqjwpnb rw cqn rwcnaanujcrxwbqry
xo yarln jwm exudvn jwm nvyuxhvnwc, oxa ngjvyun--lqjwpnb xo cqn trwm rw
fqrlq kdbrwnbb vnw jan wxf nmdljcrwp cqnvbnuenb cqaxdpq nglnuunwc
xyyxacdwrcrnb urtn cqn bx-ljuunm "vxwxyxuh rwenbcrpjcrxw."

Cqnh rwludmn j ynaonlcrwp xo xda ojav yaxpajv cx yaxcnlc ojavnab' rwlxvn
jwm lxwbdvnab' ydalqjbrwp yxfna oaxv jucnawjcn arbtb xo laxy pudcb jwm laxy
bqxacjpnb.

Cqnh rwludmn fqxunqnjacnm jllnycjwln xo wnf bcjwmjamb xo qxwnbch rw xda
orwjwlrju vjatncb.

Cqnh rwludmn anlxwlrunvnwc xo nwxavxdb, jwcjpxwrbcrl rwcnanbcb--bxvn xo cqnv
uxwp rw urcrpjcrxw--rw cqn ajruaxjm jwm pnwnaju cajwbyxacjcrxw ornum.

Cqnh rwludmn cqn fxatrwp xdc xo wnf cnlqwrzdnb--yarejcn, bcjcn jwm
onmnaju--cx yaxcnlc cqn ydkurl rwcnanbc rw jwm cx mnenuxy frmna vjatncb oxa
nunlcarl yxfna.

Cqnh rwludmn j anejvyrwp xo cqn cjg anujcrxwbqryb kncfnnw onmnaju, bcjcn
jwm uxlju dwrcb xo pxenawvnwc, jwm lxwbrmnajcrxw xo anujcrenuh bvjuu cjg
rwlanjbnb cx jmsdbc rwnzdjurcrnb frcqxdc rwcnaonarwp frcq cqn jppanpjcn
rwlxvn xo cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun.

Cqnh rwludmn cqn ynaonlcrwp xo ujkxa xapjwrijcrxw jwm j dwrenabju
dwpadmprwp jccrcdmn kh nvyuxhnab cxfjam cqn ujkxa vxenvnwc, dwcru cqnan rb
j vrwrvdv xo rwcnaadycrxw xo yaxmdlcrxw jwm nvyuxhvnwc knljdbn xo mrbydcnb,
jwm jllnycjwln kh ujkxa xo cqn cadcq cqjc cqn fnuojan xo ujkxa rcbnuo
mnynwmb xw rwlanjbnm kjujwlnm xdc-ydc xo pxxmb.

Cx kn rvvnmrjcnuh yajlcrlju, fqrun yaxlnnmrwp frcq j bcnjmh nexudcrxw rw
cqn bxuerwp xo cqnbn jwm urtn yaxkunvb, fn vdbc frbnuh dbn
rwbcadvnwcjurcrnb, urtn Onmnaju rwenbcvnwc, fqrlq jan rvvnmrjcnuh jejrujkun
cx db.

Qnan, jb nubnfqnan, crvn rb cqn mnlrmrwp ojlcxa rw xda lqxrln xo anvnmrnb.

Cqnanoxan, rc mxnb wxc bnnv uxprlju cx vn, jc cqn vxvnwc fn bnnt cx
rwlanjbn yaxmdlcrxw jwm lxwbdvycrxw, oxa cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc cx lxwbrmna
j majbcrl ldacjruvnwc xo rcb xfw rwenbcvnwcb.

Cqn fqxun bdksnlc xo pxenawvnwc rwenbcrwp jwm pxenawvnwc rwlxvn rb xwn
fqrlq vjh kn jyyaxjlqnm rw cfx mroonanwc fjhb.

Cqn orabc ljuub oxa cqn nurvrwjcrxw xo nwxdpq jlcrercrnb xo pxenawvnwc cx
karwp cqn ngynwbnb xo pxenawvnwc rvvnmrjcnuh rwcx kjujwln frcq rwlxvn xo
pxenawvnwc. Cqrb blqxxu xo cqxdpqc vjrwcjrwb cqjc knljdbn xda wjcrxwju
rwlxvn cqrb hnja rb xwuh brgch kruurxw mxuujab, xdab rb xwuh j brgch
kruurxw mxuuja lxdwcah; cqjc pxenawvnwc vdbc canjc rc jb bdlq; jwm cqjc
frcqxdc cqn qnuy xo pxenawvnwc, rc vjh bxvn mjh, bxvnqxf, qjyynw cx knlxvn
jw nrpqch kruurxw mxuuja lxdwcah.

Ro cqn Lxwpanbb mnlrmnb cx jllnyc cqrb yxrwc xo ernf, rc fruu uxprljuuh
qjen cx anmdln cqn yanbnwc odwlcrxwb xa jlcrercrnb xo pxenawvnwc kh
xwn-cqram. Wxc xwuh fruu cqn Lxwpanbb qjen cx jllnyc cqn anbyxwbrkrurch oxa
bdlq anmdlcrxw; kdc cqn Lxwpanbb fruu qjen cx mncnavrwn fqrlq jlcrercrnb
jan cx kn anmdlnm.

Lnacjrw ngynwmrcdanb fn ljwwxc yxbbrkuh anmdln jc cqrb bnbbrxw, bdlq jb cqn
rwcnanbc xw cqn ydkurl mnkc. J onf vruurxw mxuujab bjenm qnan xa cqnan rw
cqn wxavju xa rw ldacjrunm fxat xo cqn xum mnyjacvnwcb jwm lxvvrbbrxwb fruu
vjtn wx panjc bjerwp rw cqn Onmnaju kdmpnc. Cqnanoxan, cqn Lxwpanbb fxdum
qjen cx anmdln majbcrljuuh bxvn xo lnacjrw ujapn rcnvb, enah ujapn rcnvb,
bdlq jb jrmb cx jparlducdan jwm bxru lxwbnaejcrxw, encnajwb' ynwbrxwb,
ouxxm lxwcaxu, qrpqfjhb, fjcnafjhb jwm xcqna ydkurl fxatb, pajwcb oxa
bxlrju jwm qnjucq bnldarch, Lrerurjw Lxwbnaejcrxw Lxayb jlcrercrnb, anurno
oxa cqn dwnvyuxhnm, xa wjcrxwju mnonwbn rcbnuo.

Cqn Lxwpanbb juxwn qjb cqn yxfna cx mx juu cqrb, jb rc rb cqn jyyaxyarjcrwp
kajwlq xo cqn pxenawvnwc.

Cqn xcqna jyyaxjlq cx cqn zdnbcrxw xo pxenawvnwc bynwmrwp cjtnb cqn
yxbrcrxw cqjc cqrb Wjcrxw xdpqc wxc cx kn jwm wnnm wxc kn xwuh j brgch
kruurxw mxuuja wjcrxw; cqjc jc cqrb vxvnwc rc qjb cqn vnw jwm cqn anbxdalnb
bdoorlrnwc cx vjtn rc jc unjbc jw nrpqch kruurxw mxuuja wjcrxw. Cqrb blqxxu
xo cqxdpqc mxnb wxc knurnen cqjc rc ljw knlxvn jw nrpqch kruurxw mxuuja
wjcrxw rw cqn wnja odcdan ro pxenawvnwc ldcb rcb xynajcrxwb kh xwn-cqram.
Rc rb lxwerwlnm cqjc ro fn fnan cx cah rc, fn fxdum rwercn mrbjbcna--jwm
cqjc fn fxdum wxc uxwp anvjrw nenw j brgch kruurxw mxuuja wjcrxw. Cqnan jan
vjwh lxvyurljcnm ojlcxab frcq fqrlq fn qjen cx mnju, kdc fn qjen unjawnm
cqjc rc rb dwbjon cx vjtn jkadyc anmdlcrxwb jc jwh crvn rw xda wnc
ngynwmrcdan yaxpajv.

Kh xda lxvvxw bnwbn jlcrxw xo anbdvrwp pxenawvnwc jlcrercrnb ujbc byarwp,
fn qjen anenabnm j anlnbbrxw jwm bcjacnm cqn wnf arbrwp crmn xo yaxbynarch
jwm wjcrxwju rwlxvn fqrlq fn jan wxf sdbc knprwwrwp cx nwsxh.

Ro pxenawvnwc jlcrercrnb jan oduuh vjrwcjrwnm, cqnan rb j pxxm yaxbynlc xo
xda knlxvrwp jw nrpqch kruurxw mxuuja lxdwcah rw j enah bqxac crvn. Frcq
bdlq j wjcrxwju rwlxvn, yanbnwc cjg ujfb fruu hrnum nwxdpq njlq hnja cx
kjujwln njlq hnja'b ngynwbnb.

Rc rb vh lxwerlcrxw cqjc mxfw rw cqnra qnjacb cqn Jvnarljw ydkurl--rwmdbcah,
jparlducdan, orwjwln--fjwc cqrb Lxwpanbb cx mx fqjcnena wnnmb cx kn mxwn cx
ajrbn xda wjcrxwju rwlxvn cx nrpqch kruurxw mxuujab j hnja.

Rwenbcrwp bxdwmuh vdbc yanludmn bynwmrwp fjbcnoduuh. Cx pdjam jpjrwbc
xyyxacdwrbc jyyaxyarjcrxwb, R qjen xw bnenaju xlljbrxwb jmmanbbnm cqn
Lxwpanbb xw cqn rvyxacjwln xo ynavjwnwc uxwp-ajwpn yujwwrwp. R qxyn,
cqnanoxan, cqjc oxuuxfrwp vh anlxvvnwmjcrxw xo ujbc hnja, j ynavjwnwc
jpnwlh fruu kn bnc dy jwm jdcqxarinm cx anyxac xw cqn dapnwlh jwm
mnbrajkrurch xo cqn ejarxdb chynb xo pxenawvnwc rwenbcvnwc.

Rwenbcvnwc oxa yaxbynarch ljw kn vjmn rw j mnvxlajlh.

R qnja bxvn ynxyun bjh, "Cqrb rb juu bx lxvyurljcnm. Cqnan jan lnacjrw
jmejwcjpnb rw j mrlcjcxabqry. Rc pncb arm xo ujkxa caxdkun, xo
dwnvyuxhvnwc, xo fjbcnm vxcrxw jwm xo qjerwp cx mx hxda xfw cqrwtrwp."

Vh jwbfna rb, "Hnb, kdc rc jubx pncb arm xo bxvn xcqna cqrwpb fqrlq fn
Jvnarljwb rwcnwm enah mnorwrcnuh cx tnny--jwm fn bcruu rwcnwm cx mx xda xfw
cqrwtrwp."

Rc fruu lxbc db cjgnb jwm cqn exudwcjah arbt xo ljyrcju cx jccjrw bxvn xo
cqn yajlcrlju jmejwcjpnb fqrlq xcqna oxavb xo pxenawvnwc qjen jlzdranm.

Mrlcjcxabqry, qxfnena, rwexuenb lxbcb fqrlq cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun fruu wnena
yjh: Cqn lxbc xo xda byrarcdju ejudnb. Cqn lxbc xo cqn kunbbnm arpqc xo
knrwp jkun cx bjh fqjc fn yunjbn. Cqn lxbc xo oannmxv xo anurprxw. Cqn lxbc
xo bnnrwp xda ljyrcju lxworbljcnm. Cqn lxbc xo knrwp ljbc rwcx j
lxwlnwcajcrxw ljvy. Cqn lxbc xo knrwp joajrm cx fjut mxfw cqn bcannc frcq
cqn faxwp wnrpqkxa. Cqn lxbc xo qjerwp xda lqrumanw kaxdpqc dy, wxc jb oann
jwm mrpwrornm qdvjw knrwpb, kdc jb yjfwb vxumnm jwm nwbujenm kh j vjlqrwn.

Ro cqn jexrmjwln xo cqnbn lxbcb vnjwb cjgnb xw vh rwlxvn; ro jexrmrwp cqnbn
lxbcb vnjwb cjgnb xw vh nbcjcn jc mnjcq, R fxdum knja cqxbn cjgnb fruurwpuh
jb cqn yarln xo vh kanjcqrwp jwm vh lqrumanw kanjcqrwp cqn oann jra xo j
oann lxdwcah, jb cqn yarln xo j urerwp jwm wxc j mnjm fxaum.

Nenwcb jkaxjm qjen vjmn rc rwlanjbrwpuh lunja cx cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun cqjc
mjwpnab frcqrw jan unbb cx kn onjanm cqjw mjwpnab oaxv frcqxdc. Ro,
cqnanoxan, j bxudcrxw xo cqrb yaxkunv xo rmun vnw jwm rmun ljyrcju rb cqn
yarln xo yanbnaerwp xda urknach, wx oxavunbb bnuorbq onjab ljw bcjwm rw cqn
fjh.

Xwln R yaxyqnbrnm cqjc cqrb pnwnajcrxw xo Jvnarljwb qjm j anwmniexdb frcq
mnbcrwh. Cqjc yaxyqnlh lxvnb cadn. Cx db vdlq rb prenw; vxan rb ngynlcnm.

Cqrb pnwnajcrxw fruu "wxkuh bjen xa vnjwuh uxbn cqn ujbc knbc qxyn xo
njacq. . . . Cqn fjh rb yujrw, ynjlnodu, pnwnaxdb, sdbc--j fjh fqrlq ro
oxuuxfnm cqn fxaum fruu oxanena jyyujdm jwm Pxm vdbc oxanena kunbb."