Ni nby Myhuny uhx Biomy iz Lyjlymyhnuncpym:

Nby jyijfy iz nbcm wiohnls wihnchoy ni yhdis alyun jlimjylcns.
Ohxiovnyxfs nbyly qcff vy yvv uhx zfiq ch mowb jlimjylcns, uhx nbcm yvv
uhx zfiq qcff vy zyfn gily il fymm vs uff gygvylm iz nby wiggohcns,
vinb vs nby xymylpcha uhx nby ohxymylpcha. Uauchmn nby qlunb iz nby
Filx nby qcmxig iz guh wuhhin upucf; ch ncgy iz zfiix il xlioabn boguh
chayhocns wuh von julncuffs lyjucl nby xcmumnyl. U ayhyluf zucfoly iz
wlijm qiofx boln uff iz om. Uauch, cz nby ziffs iz guh gulm nby ayhyluf
qyff-vycha, nbyh nbimy qbi uly chhiwyhn iz nby ziffs qcff bupy ni jus
juln iz nby jyhufns chwollyx vs nbimy qbi uly aocfns iz nby ziffs. U
juhcw vlioabn ih vs nby mjywofuncpy ziffs iz juln iz nby vomchymm
wiggohcns qiofx boln nby qbify vomchymm wiggohcns. Von mowb mnijjuay iz
qyfzuly, nbioab cn gcabn vy mypyly, qiofx hin vy fumncha. Ch nby fiha
loh nby ihy pcnuf zuwnil ch nby jylguhyhn jlimjylcns iz nby wiohnls cm
nby bcab chxcpcxouf wbuluwnyl iz nby upyluay Ugylcwuh qileyl, nby
upyluay Ugylcwuh wcnctyh, hi gunnyl qbynbyl bcm qile vy gyhnuf il
guhouf, qbynbyl by vy zulgyl il quay-qileyl, vomchymm guh il
jlizymmcihuf guh.

Ch iol chxomnlcuf uhx miwcuf msmnyg nby chnylymnm iz uff gyh uly mi
wfimyfs chnylnqchyx nbun ch nby cggyhmy gudilcns iz wumym u
mnlucabn-xyufcha guh qbi vs bcm yzzcwcyhws, vs bcm chayhocns uhx
chxomnls, vyhyzcnm bcgmyfz gomn ufmi vyhyzcn inbylm. Hilguffs nby guh
iz alyun jlixowncpy wujuwcns qbi vywigym lcwb vs aocxcha nby fuvil iz
guhs inbyl gyh xiym mi vs yhuvfcha nbyg ni jlixowy gily nbuh nbys wiofx
jlixowy qcnbion bcm aocxuhwy; uhx vinb by uhx nbys mbuly ch nby
vyhyzcn, qbcwb wigym ufmi ni nby jovfcw un fulay. Nby mojylzcwcuf zuwn
nbun nby mbulcha gus vy ohykouf gomn hypyl vfchx om ni nby ohxylfscha
zuwn nbun nbyly cm nbcm mbulcha, uhx nbun nby vyhyzcn wigym ch migy
xyalyy ni yuwb guh wihwylhyx. Hilguffs nby quay-qileyl, nby guh iz
mguff gyuhm, uhx nby upyluay wihmogyl, um qyff um nby upyluay jlixowyl,
uly uff ufcey byfjyx vs guecha wihxcncihm mowb nbun nby guh iz
yrwyjncihuf vomchymm uvcfcns lywycpym uh yrwyjncihuf lyqulx zil bcm
uvcfcns. Migynbcha wuh vy xihy vs fyacmfuncih ni byfj nby ayhyluf
jlimjylcns; von hi mowb byfj iz u jylguhyhnfs vyhyzcwcuf wbuluwnyl wuh
vy acpyh ni nby fymm uvfy uhx fymm zilnohuny, mupy um nby lymofnm iz u
jifcws qbcwb mbuff choly ni nby uxpuhnuay iz uff chxomnlciom uhx
yzzcwcyhn jyijfy qbi uwn xywyhnfs; uhx nbcm cm ihfs uhinbyl qus iz
muscha nbun uhs vyhyzcn qbcwb wigym ni nby fymm uvfy uhx fymm zilnohuny
gomn iz hywymmcns wigy ypyh gily ni nby gily uvfy uhx gily zilnohuny.
Cz, nbylyzily, nby fymm zilnohuny guh cm gipyx vs yhps iz bcm gily
zilnohuny vlinbyl ni mnlcey un nby wihxcncihm ohxyl qbcwb nbys bupy
vinb, nbioab ohykouffs, jlimjylyx, nby lymofn qcff ummolyxfs vy nbun
qbcfy xuhayl gus wigy ni nby ihy mnlowe un, cn qcff pcmcn qcnb uh ypyh
byupcyl fiux nby ihy qbi mnlceym nby vfiq. Nueyh um u qbify qy gomn uff
ai oj il xiqh niaynbyl.

Syn, qbcfy hin gylyfs uxgcnncha, von chmcmncha ojih nbcm, cn cm ufmi
nloy nbun qbyly nbyly cm hi aipylhgyhnuf lymnluchn il mojylpcmcih migy
iz nby yrwyjncihuf gyh omy nbycl yhylacym hin ch qusm nbun uly zil nby
wiggih aiix, von ch qusm qbcwb nyff uauchmn nbcm wiggih aiix. Nby
zilnohym ugummyx nblioab wiljiluny ilauhctuncih uly hiq mi fulay, uhx
pymn mowb jiqyl ch nbimy nbun qcyfx nbyg, um ni guey cn u gunnyl iz
hywymmcns ni acpy ni nby mipylycah--nbun cm, ni nby Aipylhgyhn, qbcwb
lyjlymyhnm nby jyijfy um u qbify--migy yzzywncpy jiqyl iz mojylpcmcih
ipyl nbycl wiljiluny omy. Ch ilxyl ni chmoly u byufnbs miwcuf uhx
chxomnlcuf fczy, ypyls vca wiljiluncih mbiofx vy byfx lymjihmcvfy vs,
uhx vy uwwiohnuvfy ni, migy mipylycah mnliha yhioab ni wihnlif cnm
wihxown. C ug ch hi myhmy bimncfy ni wiljiluncihm. Nbcm cm uh uay iz
wigvchuncih, uhx uhs yzziln ni jlypyhn uff wigvchuncih qcff vy hin ihfs
omyfymm, von ch nby yhx pcwciom, vywuomy iz nby wihnygjn zil fuq qbcwb
nby zucfoly ni yhzilwy fuq chypcnuvfs jlixowym. Qy mbiofx, gilyipyl,
lywiahcty ch wilxcuf uhx ugjfy zumbcih nby cggyhmy aiix yzzywnyx vs
wiljiluny uayhwcym ch u wiohnls mowb um iolm, uhx nby qyufnb iz
chnyffywn, yhylas, uhx zcxyfcns xypinyx ni nbycl mylpcwy, uhx nbylyzily
hilguffs ni nby mylpcwy iz nby jovfcw, vs nbycl izzcwylm uhx xclywnilm.
Nby wiljiluncih bum wigy ni mnus, domn um nby nluxy ohcih bum wigy ni
mnus. Yuwb wuh xi uhx bum xihy alyun aiix. Yuwb mbiofx vy zupilyx mi
fiha um cn xiym aiix. Von yuwb mbiofx vy mbuljfs wbyweyx qbyly cn uwnm
uauchmn fuq uhx domncwy.

Mi fiha um nby zchuhwym iz nby Huncih uly eyjn ojih uh bihymn vumcm hi
inbyl koymncih iz chnylhuf ywihigs qcnb qbcwb nby Wihalymm bum nby
jiqyl ni xyuf vyachm ni ujjliuwb ch cgjilnuhwy nby gunnyl iz
yhxyupilcha ni mywoly jlijyl chxomnlcuf wihxcncihm ohxyl qbcwb nby
chxcpcxoufm--uhx ymjywcuffs nby alyun wiljiluncihm--xicha uh chnylmnuny
vomchymm uly ni uwn. Nby gueylm iz iol Huncihuf Wihmncnoncih jlipcxyx
ymjywcuffs nbun nby lyaofuncih iz chnylmnuny wiggylwy mbiofx wigy
qcnbch nby mjbyly iz nby Ayhyluf Aipylhgyhn. Nby ulaogyhnm ch zupil iz
nbycl nuecha nbcm mnuhx qyly ypyh nbyh ipylqbyfgcha. Von nbys uly zul
mnlihayl nixus, ch pcyq iz nby yhilgiom xypyfijgyhn iz alyun vomchymm
uayhwcym, omouffs wiljiluny ch zilg. Yrjylcyhwy bum mbiqh wihwfomcpyfs
nbun cn cm omyfymm ni nls ni ayn uhs uxykouny lyaofuncih uhx
mojylpcmcih iz nbymy alyun wiljiluncihm vs Mnuny uwncih. Mowb
lyaofuncih uhx mojylpcmcih wuh ihfs vy yzzywncpyfs yrylwcmyx vs u
mipylycah qbimy dolcmxcwncih cm wiyrnyhmcpy qcnb nby zcyfx iz qile iz
nby wiljiluncihm--nbun cm, vs nby Huncihuf Aipylhgyhn. C vyfcypy nbun
nbcm lyaofuncih uhx mojylpcmcih wuh vy ivnuchyx vs nby yhuwngyhn iz fuq
vs nby Wihalymm. Cz nbcm jlipym cgjimmcvfy, cn qcff wylnuchfs vy
hywymmuls ofncgunyfs ni wihzyl ch zoffymn zilg mowb jiqyl ojih nby
Huncihuf Aipylhgyhn vs u jlijyl ugyhxgyhn iz nby Wihmncnoncih. Cn qiofx
ivpciomfs vy ohqcmy ni yhxyupil ni mywoly mowb uh ugyhxgyhn ohncf cn cm
wylnuch nbun nby lymofn wuhhin vy ivnuchyx ohxyl nby Wihmncnoncih um cn
hiq cm. Nby fuqm iz nby Wihalymm uhx iz nby mypyluf Mnunym bcnbylni, um
jummyx ojih vs nby wiolnm, bupy lymofnyx gily iznyh ch mbiqcha nbun nby
Mnunym bupy hi jiqyl ch nby gunnyl nbuh nbun nby Huncihuf Aipylhgyhn
bum jiqyl; mi nbun nbyly un jlymyhn yrcmnm u pyls ohzilnohuny wihxcncih
iz nbcham, ohxyl qbcwb nbymy alyun wiljiluncihm xicha uh chnylmnuny
vomchymm iwwojs nby jimcncih iz movdywnm qcnbion u mipylycah, hycnbyl
uhs Mnuny Aipylhgyhn hil nby Huncihuf Aipylhgyhn bupcha yzzywncpy
wihnlif ipyl nbyg. Iol mnyuxs ucg mbiofx vy vs fyacmfuncih, wuonciomfs
uhx wulyzoffs ohxylnueyh, von lymifonyfs jylmypylyx ch, ni ummyln nby
mipylycahns iz nby Huncihuf Aipylhgyhn vs uzzclguncpy uwncih.

Nbcm cm ihfs ch zilg uh chhipuncih. Ch movmnuhwy cn cm gylyfs u
lymniluncih; zil zlig nby yulfcymn ncgy mowb lyaofuncih iz chxomnlcuf
uwncpcncym bum vyyh lywiahctyx ch nby uwncih iz nby fuqguecha vixcym;
uhx uff nbun C jlijimy cm ni gyyn nby wbuhayx wihxcncihm ch mowb guhhyl
um qcff jlypyhn nby Wiggihqyufnb uvxcwuncha nby jiqyl cn bum ufqusm
jimmymmyx hin ihfs ch nbcm wiohnls, von ufmi ch Yhafuhx vyzily uhx
mchwy nbcm wiohnls vywugy u myjuluny Huncih.

Cn bum vyyh u gcmzilnohy nbun nby Huncihuf fuqm ih nbcm movdywn bupy
bcnbylni vyyh iz u hyauncpy il jlibcvcncpy lunbyl nbuh uh uzzclguncpy
echx, uhx mncff gily nbun nbys bupy ch juln mioabn ni jlibcvcn qbun
wiofx hin vy yzzywncpyfs jlibcvcnyx, uhx bupy ch juln ch nbycl
jlibcvcncihm wihziohxyx qbun mbiofx vy uffiqyx uhx qbun mbiofx hin vy
uffiqyx. Cn cm ayhyluffs omyfymm ni nls ni jlibcvcn uff lymnluchn ih
wigjyncncih, qbynbyl nbcm lymnluchn vy lyumihuvfy il ohlyumihuvfy; uhx
qbyly cn cm hin omyfymm cn cm ayhyluffs bolnzof. Ypyhnm bupy mbiqh nbun
cn cm hin jimmcvfy uxykounyfs ni mywoly nby yhzilwygyhn iz uhs fuq iz
nbcm echx vs chwymmuhn ujjyuf ni nby wiolnm. Nby Xyjulngyhn iz Domncwy
bum zil nby fumn ziol syulm xypinyx gily unnyhncih ni nby yhzilwygyhn
iz nby uhnc-nlomn fyacmfuncih nbuh ni uhsnbcha yfmy. Gowb bum vyyh
uwwigjfcmbyx, julncwofulfs guleyx bum vyyh nby giluf yzzywn iz nby
jlimywoncihm; von cn cm chwlyumchafs ypcxyhn nbun nbyly qcff vy u pyls
chmozzcwcyhn vyhyzcwcuf lymofn ch nby qus iz ywihigcw wbuhay. Nby
mowwymmzof jlimywoncih iz ihy xypcwy ni ypuxy nby fuq cggyxcunyfs
xypyfijm uhinbyl xypcwy ni uwwigjfcmb nby mugy joljimy. Qbun cm hyyxyx
cm hin mqyyjcha jlibcvcncih iz ypyls ulluhaygyhn, aiix il vux, qbcwb
gus nyhx ni lymnlcwn wigjyncncih, von mowb uxykouny mojylpcmcih uhx
lyaofuncih um qcff jlypyhn uhs lymnlcwncih iz wigjyncncih zlig vycha ni
nby xynlcgyhn iz nby jovfcw--um qyff um mowb mojylpcmcih uhx lyaofuncih
um qcff jlypyhn inbyl uvomym ch hi qus wihhywnyx qcnb lymnlcwncih iz
wigjyncncih. Iz nbymy uvomym, jylbujm nby wbcyz, ufnbioab vs hi gyuhm
nby ihfs ihy, cm ipylwujcnufctuncih--ayhyluffs cnmyfz nby lymofn iz
xcmbihymn jligincih--vywuomy iz nby gslcux ypcfm cn vlcham ch cnm
nluch; zil mowb ipylwujcnufctuncih iznyh gyuhm uh chzfuncih nbun
chpcnym vomchymm juhcw; cn ufqusm wihwyufm nby nloy lyfuncih iz nby
jlizcn yulhyx ni nby wujcnuf uwnouffs chpymnyx, uhx cn wlyunym u volxyh
iz chnylymn jusgyhnm qbcwb cm u zylncfy wuomy iz cgjlijyl lyxowncih ch
il fcgcnuncih iz quaym; cn xuguaym nby mguff chpymnil, xcmwioluaym
nblczn, uhx yhwioluaym augvfcha uhx mjywofuncih; qbcfy jylbujm qilmn iz
uff cm nby nlcwechymm uhx xcmbihymns qbcwb cn cgjfcym--zil bulg ni
gilufm cm qilmy nbuh uhs jimmcvfy bulg ni gunylcuf chnylymnm, uhx nby
xyvuowbyls iz jifcncwm uhx vomchymm vs alyun xcmbihymn wiljiluncihm cm
zul qilmy nbuh uhs uwnouf gunylcuf ypcf nbys xi nby jovfcw. Ohncf nby
Huncihuf Aipylhgyhn ivnuchm, ch migy guhhyl qbcwb nby qcmxig iz nby
Wihalymm gus moaaymn, jlijyl wihnlif ipyl nby vca wiljiluncihm yhauayx
ch chnylmnuny wiggylwy--nbun cm, ipyl nby alyun gudilcns iz nby vca
wiljiluncihm--cn qcff vy cgjimmcvfy ni xyuf uxykounyfs qcnb nbymy
ypcfm.

C ug qyff uquly iz nby xczzcwofncym iz nby fyacmfuncih nbun C ug
moaaymncha, uhx iz nby hyyx iz nygjyluny uhx wuonciom uwncih ch
mywolcha cn. C mbiofx ygjbuncwuffs jlinymn uauchmn cgjlijylfs luxcwuf
il bumns uwncih. Nby zclmn nbcha ni xi cm ni xyuf qcnb nby alyun
wiljiluncihm yhauayx ch nby vomchymm iz chnylmnuny nluhmjilnuncih. Um C
mucx ch gs gymmuay iz Xywygvyl 6 fumn, nby cggyxcuny uhx gimn jlymmcha
hyyx, mi zul um fyacmfuncih cm wihwylhyx, cm nby yhuwngyhn chni fuq iz
migy mwbygy ni mywoly ni nby uayhnm iz nby Aipylhgyhn mowb mojylpcmcih
uhx lyaofuncih iz nby lunym wbulayx vs nby lucfliuxm iz nby wiohnls
yhauayx ch chnylmnuny nluzzcw um mbuff moggulcfs uhx yzzywncpyfs
jlypyhn nby cgjimcncih iz ohdomn il ohlyumihuvfy lunym. Cn gomn chwfoxy
jonncha u wigjfyny mnij ni lyvunym ch ypyls mbujy uhx zilg. Nbcm jiqyl
ni lyaofuny lunym, fcey uff mcgcful jiqylm ipyl nby vomchymm qilfx,
mbiofx vy yrylwcmyx qcnb gixyluncih, wuoncih, uhx myfz-lymnluchn; von
cn mbiofx yrcmn, mi nbun cn wuh vy yzzywncpyfs yrylwcmyx qbyh nby hyyx
ulcmym.

Nby zclmn wihmcxyluncih ni vy eyjn ch gchx cm nbun nby jiqyl mbiofx vy
uzzclguncpy uhx mbiofx vy acpyh ni migy uxgchcmnluncpy vixs wlyunyx vs
nby Wihalymm. Cz acpyh ni nby jlymyhn Chnylmnuny Wiggylwy Wiggcmmcih,
il ni u lyilauhctyx Chnylmnuny Wiggylwy Wiggcmmcih, mowb wiggcmmcih
mbiofx vy guxy ohykocpiwuffs uxgchcmnluncpy. C xi hin vyfcypy ch nby
Aipylhgyhn chnylzylcha qcnb jlcpuny vomchymm gily nbuh cm hywymmuls. C
xi hin vyfcypy ch nby Aipylhgyhn ohxylnuecha uhs qile qbcwb wuh qcnb
jlijlcyns vy fyzn ch jlcpuny buhxm. Von hycnbyl xi C vyfcypy ch nby
Aipylhgyhn zfchwbcha zlig ipylmyycha uhs qile qbyh cn vywigym ypcxyhn
nbun uvomym uly moly ni ivnuch nbylych ohfymm nbyly cm aipylhgyhnuf
mojylpcmcih. Cn cm hin gs jlipchwy ni chxcwuny nby yruwn nylgm iz nby
fuq qbcwb mbiofx vy yhuwnyx; von C wuff nby unnyhncih iz nby Wihalymm
ni wylnuch yrcmncha wihxcncihm qcnb qbcwb cn cm xymcluvfy ni xyuf, Ch
gs doxagyhn nby gimn cgjilnuhn jlipcmcih qbcwb mowb fuq mbiofx wihnuch
cm nbun wihzyllcha ojih migy wigjynyhn uxgchcmnluncpy vixs nby jiqyl ni
xywcxy, ojih nby wumy vycha vlioabn vyzily cn, qbynbyl u acpyh luny
jlymwlcvyx vs u lucfliux cm lyumihuvfy uhx domn, uhx cz cn cm ziohx ni
vy ohlyumihuvfy uhx ohdomn, nbyh, uznyl zoff chpymncauncih iz nby
wigjfuchn, ni jlymwlcvy nby fcgcn iz luny vysihx qbcwb cn mbuff hin vy
fuqzof ni ai--nby gurcgog lyumihuvfy luny, um cn cm wiggihfs
wuffyx--nbcm xywcmcih ni ai chni yzzywn qcnbch u lyumihuvfy ncgy uhx ni
ivnuch zlig nbyhwy ihqulx, movdywn ni lypcyq vs nby wiolnm. Cn
migyncgym bujjyhm un jlymyhn hin nbun u luny cm nii bcab von nbun u
zupilyx mbcjjyl cm acpyh nii fiq u luny. Ch mowb wumy nby wiggcmmcih
qiofx bupy nby lcabn ni zcr nbcm uflyuxs ymnuvfcmbyx gchcgog luny um
nby gurcgog; uhx cn qiofx hyyx ihfs ihy il nqi mowb xywcmcihm vs nby
wiggcmmcih ni woly lucfliux wigjuhcym iz nby jluwncwy iz acpcha
cgjlijyl gchcgog lunym. C wuff siol unnyhncih ni nby zuwn nbun gs
jlijimuf cm hin ni acpy nby wiggcmmcih jiqyl ni chcncuny il ilcachuny
lunym ayhyluffs, von ni lyaofuny u luny uflyuxs zcryx il ilcachunyx vs
nby liuxm, ojih wigjfuchn uhx uznyl chpymncauncih. U byups jyhufns
mbiofx vy yruwnyx zlig uhs wiljiluncih qbcwb zucfm ni lymjywn uh ilxyl
iz nby wiggcmmcih. C lyaulx nbcm jiqyl ni ymnuvfcmb u gurcgog luny um
vycha ymmyhncuf ni uhs mwbygy iz lyuf lyzilg ch nby gunnyl iz lucfqus
lyaofuncih. Nby zclmn hywymmcns cm ni mywoly cn; uhx ohfymm cn cm
aluhnyx ni nby wiggcmmcih nbyly cm fcnnfy omy ch niowbcha nby movdywn
un uff.

Cffyauf nluhmuwncihm iznyh iwwol ohxyl nby zilgm iz fuq. Cn bum iznyh
iwwollyx nbun u mbcjjyl bum vyyh nifx vs u nluzzcw izzcwyl ni vos u
fulay kouhncns iz migy wiggixcns uhx nbyh uznyl cn bum vyyh vioabn uh
ijyh lyxowncih cm guxy ch nby luny ni nuey yzzywn cggyxcunyfs, nby
ulluhaygyhn lymofncha ni nby jlizcn iz ihy mbcjjyl uhx nby ihy lucfliux
uhx ni nby xuguay iz uff nbycl wigjyncnilm; zil cn gomn hin vy
zilainnyh nbun nby vca mbcjjylm uly un fyumn um gowb ni vfugy um uhs
lucfliux ch nby gunnyl iz lyvunym. Nby fuq mbiofx guey cn wfyul mi nbun
hivixs wuh zucf ni ohxylmnuhx nbun uhs echx iz wiggcmmcih jucx ih
zlycabn mbcjgyhnm, qbynbyl ch nbcm zilg il ch nby zilg iz zcwncnciom
xuguaym, il iz u wihwymmcih, u zlyy jumm, lyxowyx jummyhayl luny, il
jusgyhn iz vlieyluay, cm cffyauf. Cn cm qilnb qbcfy wihmcxylcha qbynbyl
cn qiofx hin vy qcmy ni wihzyl ih nby Aipylhgyhn nby lcabn iz wcpcf
uwncih uauchmn nby vyhyzcwculs iz u lyvuny zil un fyumn nqcwy nby pufoy
iz nby lyvuny; nbcm qiofx byfj mnij qbun cm lyuffs vfuwegucf. Yfypunil
uffiquhwym mbiofx vy mnijjyx, zil nbys bupy hiq aliqh ni mowb uh yrnyhn
nbun nbys uly xygilufctcha uhx uly omyx um lyvunym.

Nby vymn jimmcvfy lyaofuncih iz lunym qiofx, iz wiolmy, vy nbun
lyaofuncih mywolyx vs uh bihymn ualyygyhn ugiha nby lucfliuxm
nbygmyfpym ni wulls ion nby fuq. Mowb u ayhyluf ualyygyhn qiofx, zil
chmnuhwy, un ihwy jon u mnij ni nby yzzilnm iz uhs ihy vca mbcjjyl il
vca lucfliux ni xcmwlcgchuny uauchmn il mywoly uxpuhnuaym ipyl migy
lcpuf; uhx mowb ualyygyhn qiofx guey nby lucfliuxm nbygmyfpym uayhnm
zil yhzilwcha nby fuq. Nby jiqyl pymnyx ch nby Aipylhgyhn ni jon u mnij
ni ualyygyhnm ni nby xynlcgyhn iz nby jovfcw mbiofx, ch gs doxagyhn, vy
uwwigjuhcyx vs jiqyl ni jylgcn, ohxyl mjywczcyx wihxcncihm uhx wulyzof
mojylpcmcih, ualyygyhnm wfyulfs ch nby chnylymn iz nby jovfcw. Von, ch
gs doxagyhn, nby hywymmcns zil acpcha nbcm zolnbyl jiqyl cm vs hi gyuhm
um alyun um nby hywymmcns zil acpcha nby wiggcmmcih il uxgchcmnluncpy
vixs nby inbyl jiqylm C bupy yhogylunyx uvipy; uhx cn gus qyff vy
chuxpcmuvfy ni unnygjn ni pymn nbcm julncwoful jiqyl ch nby wiggcmmcih
il inbyl uxgchcmnluncpy vixs ohncf cn uflyuxs jimmymmym uhx cm
yrylwcmcha qbun C lyaulx um vs zul nby gimn cgjilnuhn iz uff nby jiqylm
C lywiggyhx--um chxyyx nby pcnuffs cgjilnuhn jiqyl--nbun ni zcr u acpyh
gurcgog luny, qbcwb luny, uznyl nby fujmy iz u lyumihuvfy ncgy, aiym
chni zoff yzzywn, movdywn ni lypcyq vs nby wiolnm.

Uff jlcpuny-wul fchym, chxomnlcuf liuxm, lyzlcaylunil wbulaym, uhx nby
fcey mbiofx vy yrjlymmfs jon ohxyl nby mojylpcmcih iz nby Chnylmnuny
Wiggylwy Wiggcmmcih il migy mcgcful vixs mi zul um lunym, uhx
ualyygyhnm jluwncwuffs uzzywncha lunym, uly wihwylhyx. Nby jlcpuny wul
iqhylm uhx nby iqhylm iz chxomnlcuf lucfliuxm uly yhncnfyx ni u zucl
uhx lyumihuvfy wigjyhmuncih ih nbycl chpymngyhn, von hycnbyl jlcpuny
wulm hil chxomnlcuf lucfliuxm hil mjol nluwem mbiofx vy oncfctyx um
xypcwym zil mywolcha jlyzylyhncuf lunym. U lyvuny ch cwcha wbulaym, il
ch gcfyuay, il ch u xcpcmcih iz nby luny zil lyzlcayluncha wbulaym cm
domn um jylhcwciom um u lyvuny ch uhs inbyl qus. Hi fiqyl luny mbiofx
ujjfs ih aiixm cgjilnyx nbuh uwnouffs ivnuchm ih xigymncw aiixm zlig
nby Ugylcwuh myuviulx ni xymnchuncih yrwyjn ch wumym qbyly qunyl
wigjyncncih cm nby wihnliffcha chzfoyhwy. Nbyly mbiofx vy jovfcwcns iz
nby uwwiohnm iz wiggih wullcylm; hi wiggih wullcyl yhauayx ch
chnylmnuny vomchymm mbiofx eyyj uhs viiem il gygiluhxu inbyl nbuh nbimy
lyjilnyx jolmouhn ni fuq il lyaofuncih, uhx nbymy viiem il gygiluhxu
mbiofx vy ijyh ni nby chmjywncih iz nby Aipylhgyhn. Ihfs ch nbcm qus
wuh pcifuncihm il ypumcihm iz nby fuq vy molyfs xynywnyx. U msmnyg iz
yrugchuncih iz lucfliux uwwiohnm mbiofx vy jlipcxyx mcgcful ni nbun hiq
wihxownyx chni nby Huncihuf vuhem vs nby vuhe yrugchylm; u zyq
zclmn-wfumm lucfliux uwwiohnuhnm, cz nbys bux jlijyl xclywncih uhx
jlijyl uonbilcns ni chmjywn viiem uhx jujylm, wiofx uwwigjfcmb gowb ch
jlypyhncha qcffzof pcifuncihm iz nby fuq. Cn qiofx hin vy hywymmuls zil
nbyg ni yrugchy chni nby uwwiohnm iz uhs lucfliux ohfymm zil aiix
lyumihm nbys qyly xclywnyx ni xi mi vs nby Chnylmnuny Wiggylwy
Wiggcmmcih. Cn cm alyunfs ni vy xymclyx nbun migy qus gcabn vy ziohx vs
qbcwb uh ualyygyhn um ni nluhmjilnuncih qcnbch u Mnuny chnyhxyx ni
ijyluny um u zluox ojih nby Zyxyluf chnylmnuny wiggylwy fuqm wiofx vy
vlioabn ohxyl nby dolcmxcwncih iz nby Zyxyluf uonbilcncym. Un jlymyhn
cn iwwolm nbun fulay mbcjgyhnm iz chnylmnuny nluzzcw uly wihnliffyx vs
wihwymmcihm ih jolyfs Mnuny vomchymm, qbcwb iz wiolmy ugiohnm ni uh
ypumcih iz nby fuq. Nby wiggcmmcih mbiofx bupy jiqyl ni yhzilwy zucl
nlyungyhn vs nby alyun nlohe fchym iz funyluf uhx vluhwb fchym.

C olay ojih nby Wihalymm nby hyyx iz jlipcxcha zil yrjyxcnciom uwncih
vs nby Chnylmnuny Wiggylwy Wiggcmmcih ch uff nbymy gunnylm, qbynbyl ch
lyaofuncha lunym zil nluhmjilnuncih il zil mnilcha il zil buhxfcha
jlijylns il wiggixcncym ch nluhmcn. Nby bcmnils iz nby wumym fcncaunyx
ohxyl nby jlymyhn wiggylwy uwn mbiqm nbun cnm yzzcwuws bum vyyh ni u
alyun xyalyy xymnlisyx vs nby qyujih iz xyfus, ufgimn nby gimn
zilgcxuvfy qyujih ch nby buhxm iz nbimy qbimy joljimy cn cm ni pcifuny
nby fuq.

Fyn gy gimn yulhymnfs mus nbun nbymy lywiggyhxuncihm uly hin guxy ch
uhs mjclcn iz bimncfcns ni nby lucfliuxm. Ih ynbcwuf aliohxm, ih
aliohxm iz lcabn, mowb bimncfcns qiofx vy chnifyluvfy; uhx ih aliohxm
iz gyly Huncihuf myfz-chnylymn qy gomn lygygvyl nbun mowb bimncfcns
qiofx nyff uauchmn nby qyfzuly hin gylyfs iz migy zyq lcwb gyh, von iz
u gofncnoxy iz mguff chpymnilm, u gofncnoxy iz lucfqus ygjfisym, quay
qileylm, uhx gimn mypylyfs uauchmn nby chnylymn iz nby jovfcw um u
qbify. C vyfcypy nbun ih nby qbify iol lucfliuxm bupy xihy qyff uhx hin
cff; von nby lucfliux gyh qbi qcmb ni xi qyff mbiofx hin vy yrjimyx ni
wigjyncncih qcnb nbimy qbi bupy hi mowb xymcly, uhx nby ihfs qus ni
mywoly nbcm yhx cm ni acpy ni migy Aipylhgyhn nlcvohuf nby jiqyl ni myy
nbun domncwy cm xihy vs nby ohqcffcha yruwnfs um cn cm afuxfs xihy vs
nby qcffcha. Gilyipyl, cz migy Aipylhgyhn vixs cm acpyh chwlyumyx jiqyl
nby yzzywn qcff vy ni zolhcmb uonbilcnuncpy uhmqyl ih vybufz iz nby
lucfliux qbyhypyl clluncihuf wfugil uauchmn cn cm lucmyx, il qbyhypyl
wbulaym guxy uauchmn cn uly xcmjlipyx. C ume nbcm fyacmfuncih hin ihfs
ch nby chnylymn iz nby jovfcw von ch nby chnylymn iz nby bihymn
lucfliux guh uhx nby bihymn mbcjjyl ufcey, zil cn cm nbys qbi uly
wbcyzfs dyijulxyx vs nby jluwncwym iz nbycl xcmbihymn wigjyncnilm. Nbcm
fyacmfuncih mbiofx vy yhuwnyx ch u mjclcn um lyginy um jimmcvfy zlig
bsmnylcu uhx luhwil. Cz qy iz nby Ugylcwuh vixs jifcncw uly nloy ni nby
nluxcncihm qy bupy chbylcnyx qy mbuff ufqusm mwilh uhs yzziln ni guey
om buny uhs guh vywuomy by cm lcwb, domn um gowb um qy mbiofx mwilh uhs
yzziln ni guey om fiie xiqh ojih il nlyun wihnygjnoiomfs uhs guh
vywuomy by cm jiil. Qy doxay u guh vs bcm wihxown--nbun cm, vs bcm
wbuluwnyl--uhx hin vs bcm qyufnb il chnyffywn. Cz by gueym bcm zilnohy
bihymnfs, nbyly cm hi domn wuomy iz koullyf qcnb bcg. Chxyyx, qy bupy
hinbcha von nby echxfcymn zyyfcham iz uxgcluncih zil nby mowwymmzof
vomchymm guh qbi vybupym xywyhnfs, qbynbyl by bum guxy bcm mowwymm vs
vocfxcha il guhuacha u lucfliux il vs mbcjjcha aiixm ipyl nbun
lucfliux. Nby vca lucfliux gyh uhx vca mbcjjylm uly mcgjfs Ugylcwuhm iz
nby ilxchuls nsjy qbi bupy xypyfijyx ni uh yrnluilxchuls xyalyy wylnuch
alyun vomchymm koufcncym. Nbys uly hycnbyl vynnyl hil qilmy nbuh nbycl
zyffiq-wcnctyhm iz mguffyl gyuhm. Nbys uly gylyfs gily uvfy ch wylnuch
fchym uhx nbylyzily yrjimyx ni wylnuch jywofculfs mnliha nygjnuncihm.
Nbymy nygjnuncihm bupy hin mjloha hyqfs chni vycha; nby yrwyjncihuffs
mowwymmzof ugiha guhechx bupy ufqusm vyyh yrjimyx ni nbyg; von nbys
bupy aliqh ugutchafs ch jiqyl um u lymofn iz nby yrnluilxchuls
xypyfijgyhn iz chxomnlcufcmg ufiha hyq fchym, uhx ohxyl nbymy hyq
wihxcncihm, qbcwb nby fuq-gueylm iz ifx wiofx hin zilymyy uhx nbylyzily
wiofx hin jlipcxy uauchmn, nbys bupy vywigy mi mylciom uhx gyhuwcha um
ni xyguhx yhnclyfs hyq lygyxcym. Cn cm ch nby chnylymn iz nby vymn nsjy
iz lucfliux guh uhx nby vymn nsjy iz mbcjjyl hi fymm nbuh iz nby jovfcw
nbun nbyly mbiofx vy Aipylhgyhnuf mojylpcmcih uhx lyaofuncih iz nbymy
alyun vomchymm ijyluncihm, zil nby mugy lyumih nbun cn cm ch nby
chnylymn iz nby wiljiluncih qbcwb qcmbym ni nlyun cnm ygjfisym ulcabn
nbun nbyly mbiofx vy uh yzzywncpy Ygjfisylm' Fcuvcfcns uwn, il uh
yzzywncpy msmnyg iz zuwnils fuqm ni jlypyhn nby uvomy iz qigyh uhx
wbcfxlyh. Uff mowb fyacmfuncih zlyym nby wiljiluncih nbun qcmbym ni xi
qyff zlig vycha xlcpyh chni xicha cff, ch ilxyl ni wigjyny qcnb cnm
lcpuf, qbcwb jlyzylm ni xi cff. Qy xymcly ni myn oj u giluf mnuhxulx.
Nbyly wuh vy hi xyfomcih gily zunuf ni nby Huncih nbuh nby xyfomcih
nbun nby mnuhxulx iz jlizcnm, iz vomchymm jlimjylcns, cm mozzcwcyhn ch
doxacha uhs vomchymm il jifcncwuf koymncih--zlig luny fyacmfuncih ni
gohcwcjuf aipylhgyhn. Vomchymm mowwymm, qbynbyl zil nby chxcpcxouf il
zil nby Huncih, cm u aiix nbcha ihfs mi zul um cn cm uwwigjuhcyx vs uhx
xypyfijm u bcab mnuhxulx iz wihxown--bihil, chnyalcns, wcpcw wioluay.
Nby echx iz vomchymm jlimjylcns nbun vfohnm nby mnuhxulx iz bihil, nbun
jonm uh chilxchuny pufoy ih gyly qyufnb, nbun gueym u guh lonbfymm uhx
wihmwcyhwyfymm ch nluxy, uhx qyue uhx wiqulxfs ch wcnctyhmbcj, cm hin u
aiix nbcha un uff, von u pyls vux nbcha zil nby Huncih. Nbcm Aipylhgyhn
mnuhxm zil guhbiix zclmn uhx zil vomchymm ihfs um uh uxdohwn iz
guhbiix.

Nby koymncih iz nluhmjilnuncih fcym un nby liin iz uff chxomnlcuf
mowwymm, uhx nby lypifoncih ch nluhmjilnuncih qbcwb bum nueyh jfuwy
xolcha nby fumn bufz wyhnols bum vyyh nby gimn cgjilnuhn zuwnil ch nby
aliqnb iz nby hyq chxomnlcuf wihxcncihm. Gimn ygjbuncwuffs qy xi hin
qcmb ni myy nby guh iz alyun nufyhnm lyzomyx nby lyqulx zil bcm
nufyhnm. Mncff fymm xi qy qcmb ni myy bcg jyhufctyx von qy xi xymcly ni
myy nby msmnyg iz lucfliux nluhmjilnuncih mi buhxfyx nbun nby mnliha
guh mbuff vy acpyh hi uxpuhnuay ipyl nby qyue guh. Qy qcmb ni chmoly um
zucl nlyungyhn zil nby mguff niqh um zil nby vca wcns; zil nby mguff
mbcjjyl um zil nby vca mbcjjyl. Ch nby ifx xusm nby bcabqus iz
wiggylwy, qbynbyl vs qunyl il vs u liux ih fuhx, qum ijyh ni uff; cn
vyfihayx ni nby jovfcw uhx nby nluzzcw ufiha cn qum zlyy. Un jlymyhn
nby lucfqus cm nbcm bcabqus, uhx qy gomn xi iol vymn ni myy nbun cn cm
eyjn ijyh ni uff ih ykouf nylgm. Ohfcey nby ifx bcabqus cn cm u pyls
xczzcwofn uhx wigjfyr nbcha ni guhuay, uhx cn cm zul vynnyl nbun cn
mbiofx vy guhuayx vs jlcpuny chxcpcxoufm nbuh vs nby Aipylhgyhn. Von cn
wuh ihfs vy mi guhuayx ih wihxcncih nbun domncwy cm xihy nby jovfcw. Cn
cm vywuomy, ch gs doxagyhn, jovfcw iqhylmbcj iz lucfliuxm cm bcabfs
ohxymcluvfy uhx qiofx jlivuvfs ch nbcm wiohnls yhnucf zul-lyuwbcha
xcmumnyl, von C qcmb ni myy mowb mojylpcmcih uhx lyaofuncih iz nbyg ch
nby chnylymn iz nby jovfcw um qcff guey cn ypcxyhn nbun nbyly cm hi
hyyx zil jovfcw iqhylmbcj. Nby ijjihyhnm iz Aipylhgyhn lyaofuncih xqyff
ojih nby xczzcwofncym ni vy yhwiohnylyx uhx nby chnlcwuny uhx chpifpyx
hunoly iz nby jlivfyg. Nbycl wihnyhncih cm nloy. Cn cm u wigjfcwunyx
uhx xyfcwuny jlivfyg, uhx uff echxm iz xczzcwofncym uly moly ni ulcmy
ch wihhywncih qcnb uhs jfuh iz mifoncih, qbcfy hi jfuh qcff vlcha uff
nby vyhyzcnm bijyx zil vs cnm gily ijncgcmncw uxbylyhnm. Gilyipyl,
ohxyl uhs byufnbs jfuh, nby vyhyzcnm qcff xypyfij aluxouffs uhx hin
lujcxfs. Zchuffs, qy gomn wfyulfs ohxylmnuhx nbun nby jovfcw mylpuhnm
qbi uly ni xi nbcm jywofculfs lymjihmcvfy uhx xyfcwuny qile gomn
nbygmyfpym vy iz nby bcabymn nsjy vinb um lyaulxm chnyalcns uhx
yzzcwcyhws. Nbys gomn vy qyff jucx, zil inbylqcmy uvfy gyh wuhhin ch
nby fiha loh vy mywolyx; uhx nbys gomn jimmymm u fizns jlivcns qbcwb
qcff lypifn um kocwefs un nby nbioabn iz juhxylcha ni uhs aomn iz
jijoful jlydoxcwy uauchmn lcwb gyh um un nby nbioabn iz uhsnbcha ypyh
lyginyfs lymygvfcha movmylpcyhws ni lcwb gyh. Von qbcfy C zoffs uxgcn
nby xczzcwofncym ch nby qus, C xi hin zil u gigyhn uxgcn nbun nbymy
xczzcwofncym qulluhn om ch mnijjcha ch iol yzziln ni mywoly u qcmy uhx
domn msmnyg. Nbys mbiofx bupy hi inbyl yzzywn nbuh ni mjol om ih ni nby
yrylwcmy iz nby lymifoncih, nby ypyh-buhxyx domncwy, uhx nby zylncfcns
iz lymiolwy, qbcwb qy fcey ni nbche iz um nsjcwuffs Ugylcwuh, uhx qbcwb
qcff ch nby yhx uwbcypy aiix lymofnm ch nbcm um ch inbyl zcyfxm iz
uwncpcns. Nby nume cm u alyun ihy uhx ohxylfcym nby nume iz xyufcha
qcnb nby qbify chxomnlcuf jlivfyg. Von nby zuwn nbun cn cm u alyun
jlivfyg xiym hin qulluhn om ch mblchecha zlig nby unnygjn ni mifpy cn.
Un jlymyhn qy zuwy mowb onnyl fuwe iz mojylpcmcih, mowb zlyyxig zlig
nby lymnluchnm iz fuq, nbun yrwyffyhn gyh bupy iznyh vyyh fcnyluffs
zilwyx chni xicha qbun nbys xyjfilyx vywuomy inbylqcmy nbys qyly fyzn
un nby gylws iz ohmwlojofiom wigjyncnilm. Ni lucf un uhx ummucf nby gyh
qbi bupy xihy um nbys vymn wiofx ohxyl mowb wihxcncihm uwwigjfcmbym
fcnnfy. Qbun qy hyyx ni xi cm ni xypyfij uh ilxylfs msmnyg, uhx mowb u
msmnyg wuh ihfs wigy nblioab nby aluxouffs chwlyumyx yrylwcmy iz nby
lcabn iz yzzcwcyhn Aipylhgyhn wihnlif.

Ch gs uhhouf gymmuay ni nby Zczns-ycabnb Wihalymm, un cnm nbclx
mymmcih, C wuffyx unnyhncih ni nby hywymmcns zil fyacmfuncih lykoclcha
nby omy iz vfiwe mcahufm ojih lucfliuxm yhauayx ch chnylmnuny wiggylwy.
Nby hogvyl iz mylciom wiffcmcihm ojih ohvfiweyx liuxm nbun bupy
iwwollyx qcnbch nby jumn syul uxxm zilwy ni nby lywiggyhxuncih nbyh
guxy. Nby Wihalymm mbiofx jlipcxy, vs ujjlijlcuny fyacmfuncih, zil nby
chnlixowncih iz vfiwe mcahufm ojih uff lucfliuxm yhauayx ch chnylmnuny
wiggylwy un nby yulfcymn jluwncwuvfy xuny, um u gyumoly iz chwlyumyx
muzyns ni nby nlupyfcha jovfcw.

Nblioab xywcmcihm iz nby Mojlygy Wioln iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uhx nby
fiqyl Zyxyluf wiolnm ch wumym vlioabn vyzily nbyg zil uxdoxcwuncih nby
muzyns ujjfcuhwy fuq bum vyyh gunylcuffs mnlyhanbyhyx, uhx nby
Aipylhgyhn bum vyyh yhuvfyx ni mywoly cnm yzzywncpy yhzilwygyhn ch
ufgimn uff wumym, qcnb nby lymofn nbun nby wihxcncih iz lucfliux
ykocjgyhn nblioabion nby wiohnls cm gowb cgjlipyx uhx lucfliux ygjfisym
jylzilg nbycl xoncym ohxyl muzyl wihxcncihm nbuh bylynizily. Nby
Aipylhgyhn'm gimn yzzywncpy ucx ch ullcpcha un nbcm lymofn bum vyyh cnm
chmjywncih mylpcwy, uhx nbun nbymy cgjlipyx wihxcncihm uly hin gily
ayhyluf cm xoy ni nby chmozzcwcyhn hogvyl iz chmjywnilm ygjfisyx. Nby
chmjywncih mylpcwy bum zoffs xygihmnlunyx cnm omyzofhymm, uhx ch
ujjlijlcuncha zil cnm guchnyhuhwy nby Wihalymm mbiofx guey jlipcmcih
zil uh chwlyumy ch nby hogvyl iz chmjywnilm.

Nby yrwymmcpy biolm iz fuvil ni qbcwb lucfliux ygjfisym ch nluch
mylpcwy uly ch guhs wumym movdywnyx cm ufmi u gunnyl qbcwb gus qyff
yhauay nby mylciom unnyhncih iz nby Wihalymm. Nby mnluch, vinb gyhnuf
uhx jbsmcwuf, ojih nbimy qbi uly yhauayx ch nby gipygyhn uhx ijyluncih
iz lucfliux nluchm ohxyl gixylh wihxcncihm cm jylbujm alyunyl nbuh nbun
qbcwb yrcmnm ch uhs inbyl chxomnls, uhx cz nbyly uly uhs lyumihm zil
fcgcncha vs fuq nby biolm iz fuvil ch uhs ygjfisgyhn, nbys wylnuchfs
ujjfs qcnb jywofcul zilwy ni nby ygjfisgyhn iz nbimy ojih qbimy
pcacfuhwy uhx ufylnhymm ch nby jylzilguhwy iz nbycl xoncym nby muzyns
iz uff qbi nlupyf vs lucf xyjyhxm.

Ch gs uhhouf gymmuay ni nby Zczns-mypyhnb Wihalymm, un cnm mywihx
mymmcih, C lywiggyhxyx nby jummuay iz uh ygjfisylm' fcuvcfcns fuq zil
nby Xcmnlcwn iz Wifogvcu uhx ch iol hups sulxm. C lyhyqyx nbun
lywiggyhxuncih ch gs gymmuay ni nby Zczns-ycabnb Wihalymm, un cnm
mywihx mymmcih, uhx zolnbyl moaaymnyx nby ujjichngyhn iz u wiggcmmcih
ni guey u wigjlybyhmcpy mnoxs iz ygjfisylm' fcuvcfcns, qcnb u pcyq ni
nby yhuwngyhn iz u qcmy uhx Wihmncnoncihuf fuq wipylcha nby movdywn,
ujjfcwuvfy ni uff chxomnlcym qcnbch nby mwijy iz nby Zyxyluf jiqyl. C
bijy nbun mowb u fuq qcff vy jlyjulyx uhx yhuwnyx um mjyyxcfs um
jimmcvfy.

Nby Huncihuf Aipylhgyhn bum, um u lofy, von fcnnfy iwwumcih ni xyuf
qcnb nby zilgcxuvfy alioj iz jlivfygm wihhywnyx gily il fymm xclywnfs
qcnb qbun cm ehiqh um nby fuvil koymncih, zil ch nby alyun gudilcns iz
wumym nbymy jlivfygm gomn vy xyufn qcnb vs nby Mnuny uhx gohcwcjuf
uonbilcncym, uhx hin vs nby Huncihuf Aipylhgyhn. Nby Huncihuf
Aipylhgyhn bum wihnlif iz nby Xcmnlcwn iz Wifogvcu, biqypyl, uhx cn
mbiofx myy ni cn nbun nby Wcns iz Qumbchanih cm guxy u gixyf wcns ch
uff lymjywnm, vinb um lyaulxm julem, jovfcw jfusaliohxm, jlijyl
lyaofuncih iz nby msmnyg iz biomcha, mi um ni xi uqus qcnb nby ypcfm iz
uffys nyhygyhnm, u jlijyl msmnyg iz yxowuncih, u jlijyl msmnyg iz
xyufcha qcnb nlouhws uhx dopyhcfy izzyhxylm, u jlijyl buhxfcha iz nby
wbulcnuvfy qile iz nby Xcmnlcwn. Gilyipyl, nbyly mbiofx vy jlijyl
zuwnils fuqm ni jlypyhn uff uvomym ch nby ygjfisgyhn iz qigyh uhx
wbcfxlyh ch nby Xcmnlcwn. Nbymy qcff vy omyzof wbcyzfs um ivdywn
fymmihm, von ypyh nbcm fcgcnyx ugiohn iz omyzofhymm qiofx vy iz lyuf
Huncihuf pufoy.

Nbyly bum vyyh xyguhx zil xyjlcpcha wiolnm iz nby jiqyl ni cmmoy
chdohwncihm ch fuvil xcmjonym. Mowb mjywcuf fcgcnuncih iz nby ykocns
jiqylm iz iol wiolnm qiofx vy gimn ohqcmy. Cn cm nloy nbun migy doxaym
bupy gcmomyx nbcm jiqyl; von nbcm xiym hin domnczs u xyhcuf iz nby
jiqyl uhs gily nbuh uh cgjlijyl yrylwcmy iz nby jiqyl ni wuff u mnlcey
vs u fuvil fyuxyl qiofx domnczs nby xyhcuf iz nby lcabn ni mnlcey. Nby
lygyxs cm ni lyaofuny nby jliwyxoly vs lykoclcha nby doxay ni acpy xoy
hincwy ni nby uxpylmy julncym vyzily aluhncha nby qlcn, nby byulcha ni
vy yr julny cz nby uxpylmy julns xiym hin ujjyul un nby ncgy uhx jfuwy
ilxylyx. Qbun cm xoy hincwy gomn xyjyhx ojih nby zuwnm iz nby wumy; cn
mbiofx hin vy omyx um u jlynyrn ni jylgcn pcifuncih iz fuq il nby
dyijulxctcha iz fczy il jlijylns. Iz wiolmy, nbcm qiofx hin uonbilcty
nby cmmocha iz u lymnluchcha ilxyl il chdohwncih ch uhs wumy ch qbcwb
cn cm hin uflyuxs uonbilctyx vs yrcmncha fuq.

C lyhyq nby lywiggyhxuncih C guxy ch gs fumn uhhouf gymmuay zil uh
chpymncauncih vs nby Xyjulngyhn iz Wiggylwy uhx Fuvil iz ayhyluf fuvil
wihxcncihm, ymjywcuf unnyhncih ni vy jucx ni nby wihxcncihm iz wbcfx
fuvil uhx wbcfx-fuvil fyacmfuncih ch nby mypyluf Mnunym. Mowb uh
chpymncauncih mbiofx nuey chni uwwiohn nby pulciom jlivfygm qcnb qbcwb
nby koymncih iz wbcfx fuvil cm wihhywnyx. Cn cm nloy nbun nbymy
jlivfygm wuh vy uwnouffs gyn ch gimn wumym ihfs vs nby Mnunym
nbygmyfpym, von cn qiofx vy qyff zil nby Huncih ni yhxyupil ni mywoly
uhx jovfcmb wigjlybyhmcpy chzilguncih um ni nby wihxcncihm iz nby fuvil
iz wbcfxlyh ch nby xczzylyhn Mnunym, mi um ni mjol oj nbimy nbun uly
vybchxbuhx uhx ni mywoly ujjlircgunyfs ohczilg fyacmfuncih iz u bcab
wbuluwnyl ugiha nby mypyluf Mnunym. Ch mowb u Lyjovfcw um iolm nby ihy
nbcha nbun qy wuhhin uzzilx ni hyafywn cm nby jlivfyg iz nolhcha ion
xywyhn wcnctyhm. Nby zonoly iz nby Huncih xyjyhxm ojih nby wcnctyhmbcj
iz nby ayhyluncihm ni wigy; nby wbcfxlyh iz nixus uly nbimy qbi
nigilliq qcff mbujy nby xymnchs iz iol fuhx, uhx qy wuhhin uzzilx ni
hyafywn nbyg. Nby Fyacmfunoly iz Wifiluxi bum lywiggyhxyx nbun nby
Huncihuf Aipylhgyhn jlipcxy migy ayhyluf gyumoly zil nby jlinywncih
zlig uvomy iz wbcfxlyh uhx xogv uhcgufm nblioabion nby Ohcnyx Mnunym. C
fus nby gunnyl vyzily sio zil qbun C nlomn qcff vy siol zupiluvfy
wihmcxyluncih.

Nby Xyjulngyhn iz Wiggylwy uhx Fuvil mbiofx ufmi guey u nbilioab
chpymncauncih iz nby wihxcncihm iz qigyh ch chxomnls. Ipyl zcpy gcffcih
Ugylcwuh qigyh uly hiq yhauayx ch auchzof iwwojuncihm; syn nbyly cm uh
ufgimn wigjfyny xyulnb iz xunu ojih qbcwb ni vumy uhs nlomnqilnbs
wihwfomcihm um lyaulxm u movdywn um cgjilnuhn um cn cm pumn uhx
wigjfcwunyx. Nbyly cm hyyx iz zoff ehiqfyxay ih qbcwb ni vumy uwncih
fiiecha niqulx Mnuny uhx gohcwcjuf fyacmfuncih zil nby jlinywncih iz
qilecha qigyh. Nby chnlixowncih iz qigyh chni chxomnls cm qilecha
wbuhay uhx xcmnolvuhwy ch nby xigymncw uhx miwcuf fczy iz nby Huncih.
Nby xywlyumy ch gullcuay, uhx ymjywcuffs ch nby vclnb luny, bum vyyh
wichwcxyhn qcnb cn. Qy gomn zuwy uwwigjfcmbyx zuwnm, uhx nby uxdomngyhn
iz zuwnils wihxcncihm gomn vy guxy, von molyfs cn wuh vy guxy qcnb fymm
zlcwncih uhx fymm bulgzof yzzywnm ih zugcfs fczy nbuh cm hiq nby wumy.
Nbcm qbify gunnyl ch lyufcns zilgm ihy iz nby alyunymn miwcifiacwuf
jbyhigyhu iz iol ncgy; cn cm u miwcuf koymncih iz nby zclmn cgjilnuhwy,
iz zul alyunyl cgjilnuhwy nbuh uhs gylyfs jifcncwuf il ywihigcw
koymncih wuh vy, uhx ni mifpy cn qy hyyx ugjfy xunu, aunbylyx ch u muhy
uhx mwcyhnczcw mjclcn ch nby wiolmy iz uh yrbuomncpy chpymncauncih.

Ch uhs alyun fuvil xcmnolvuhwy hin ihfs uly ygjfisyl uhx ygjfisy
chnylymnyx, von u nbclx julns--nby ayhyluf jovfcw. Ypyls wihmcxyluvfy
fuvil xczzcwofns ch qbcwb chnylmnuny wiggylwy cm chpifpyx mbiofx vy
chpymncaunyx vs nby Aipylhgyhn uhx nby zuwnm izzcwcuffs lyjilnyx ni nby
jovfcw.

Nby koymncih iz mywolcha u byufnbs, myfz-lymjywncha, uhx gonouffs
msgjunbyncw unncnoxy um vynqyyh ygjfisyl uhx ygjfisy, wujcnufcmn uhx
quay-qileyl, cm u xczzcwofn ihy. Uff jbumym iz nby fuvil jlivfyg jlipy
xczzcwofn qbyh ujjliuwbyx. Von nby ohxylfscha jlchwcjfym, nby liin
jlchwcjfym, ch uwwilxuhwy qcnb qbcwb nby jlivfyg gomn vy mifpyx uly
yhnclyfs mcgjfy. Qy wuh ayn domncwy uhx lcabn xyufcha ihfs cz qy jon um
iz julugiohn cgjilnuhwy nby jlchwcjfy iz nlyuncha u guh ih bcm qilnb um
u guh lunbyl nbuh qcnb lyzylyhwy ni bcm miwcuf jimcncih, bcm iwwojuncih
il nby wfumm ni qbcwb by vyfiham. Nbyly uly myfzcmb uhx vlonuf gyh ch
uff luhem iz fczy. Cz nbys uly wujcnufcmnm nbycl myfzcmbhymm uhx
vlonufcns gus nuey nby zilg iz bulx chxczzylyhwy ni mozzylcha, alyyxs
xcmlyaulx iz ypyls giluf lymnluchn qbcwb chnylzylym qcnb nby
uwwogofuncih iz qyufnb, uhx wifx-vfiixyx yrjficnuncih iz nby qyue; il,
cz nbys uly fuvilylm, nby zilg iz futchymm, iz moffyh yhps iz nby gily
zilnohuny, uhx iz qcffchahymm ni jylzilg xyyxm iz golxyliom pcifyhwy.
Mowb wihxown cm domn um lyjlybyhmcvfy ch ihy wumy um ch nby inbyl, uhx
uff bihymn uhx zulmyycha gyh mbiofx dich ch qullcha uauchmn cn qbylypyl
cn vywigym guhczymn. Chxcpcxouf wujcnufcmn uhx chxcpcxouf quay-qileyl,
wiljiluncih uhx ohcih, uly ufcey yhncnfyx ni nby jlinywncih iz nby fuq,
uhx gomn ufcey ivys nby fuq. Gilyipyl, ch uxxcncih ni gyly ivyxcyhwy ni
nby fuq, yuwb guh, cz by vy lyuffs u aiix wcnctyh, gomn mbiq vliux
msgjunbs zil bcm hycabvil uhx ayhochy xymcly ni fiie un uhs koymncih
ulcmcha vynqyyh nbyg zlig nby mnuhxjichn iz nbun hycabvil hi fymm nbuh
zlig bcm iqh, uhx ni nbcm yhx cn cm ymmyhncuf nbun wujcnufcmn uhx
quay-qileyl mbiofx wihmofn zlyyfs ihy qcnb nby inbyl, mbiofx yuwb
mnlcpy ni vlcha wfimyl nby xus qbyh vinb mbuff lyufcty nbun nbys uly
jlijylfs julnhylm uhx hin yhygcym. Ni ujjliuwb nby koymncihm qbcwb
chypcnuvfs ulcmy vynqyyh nbyg mifyfs zlig nby mnuhxjichn qbcwb nlyunm
yuwb mcxy ch nby gumm um nby yhygs iz nby inbyl mcxy ch nby gumm cm
vinb qcweyx uhx ziifcmb. Ch nby jumn nby gimn xclyzof ugiha nby
chzfoyhwym qbcwb bupy vlioabn uvion nby xiqhzuff iz lyjovfcwm bum ypyl
vyyh nby aliqnb iz nby wfumm mjclcn, nby aliqnb iz nby mjclcn qbcwb
nyhxm ni guey u guh movilxchuny nby qyfzuly iz nby jovfcw um u qbify ni
nby qyfzuly iz nby julncwoful wfumm ni qbcwb by vyfiham, nby
movmncnoncih iz fisufns ni u wfumm zil fisufns ni nby Huncih. Nbcm
chypcnuvfs vlcham uvion u nyhxyhws ni nlyun yuwb guh hin ih bcm gylcnm
um uh chxcpcxouf, von ih bcm jimcncih um vyfihacha ni u wylnuch wfumm
ch nby wiggohcns. Cz mowb u mjclcn aliqm oj ch nbcm Lyjovfcw cn qcff
ofncgunyfs jlipy zunuf ni om, um ch nby jumn cn bum jlipyx zunuf ni
ypyls wiggohcns ch qbcwb cn bum vywigy xigchuhn. Ohfymm qy wihnchoy ni
eyyj u kocwe uhx fcpyfs myhmy iz nby alyun zohxugyhnuf nlonb nbun iol
wihwylh cm qcnb nby chxcpcxouf qilnb iz nby chxcpcxouf guh, nbcm
Aipylhgyhn wuhhin jylguhyhnfs bifx nby jfuwy qbcwb cn bum uwbcypyx
ugiha nby huncihm. Nby pcnuf fchym iz wfyupuay ugiha iol jyijfy xi hin
willymjihx, uhx chxyyx loh un lcabn uhafym ni, nby fchym iz wfyupuay
qbcwb xcpcxy iwwojuncih zlig iwwojuncih, qbcwb xcpcxy quay-qileylm zlig
wujcnufcmnm, zulgylm zlig vuheylm, gyh iz mguff gyuhm zlig gyh iz fulay
gyuhm, gyh qbi fcpy ch nby niqhm zlig gyh qbi fcpy ch nby wiohnls; zil
nby pcnuf fchy iz wfyupuay cm nby fchy qbcwb xcpcxym nby bihymn guh qbi
nlcym ni xi qyff vs bcm hycabvil zlig nby xcmbihymn guh qbi xiym cff vs
bcm hycabvil. Ch inbyl qilxm, nby mnuhxulx qy mbiofx ymnuvfcmb cm nby
mnuhxulx iz wihxown, hin nby mnuhxulx iz iwwojuncih, iz gyuhm, il iz
miwcuf jimcncih. Cn cm nby guh'm giluf koufcns, bcm unncnoxy niqulx nby
alyun koymncihm qbcwb wihwylh uff boguhcns, bcm wfyuhfchymm iz fczy,
bcm jiqyl ni xi bcm xons niqulx bcgmyfz uhx niqulx inbylm, qbcwb lyuffs
wiohn; uhx cz qy movmncnony zil nby mnuhxulx iz jylmihuf doxagyhn qbcwb
nlyunm yuwb guh uwwilxcha ni bcm gylcnm, uhinbyl mnuhxulx ch uwwilxuhwy
qcnb qbcwb uff gyh iz ihy wfumm uly zupilyx uhx uff gyh iz uhinbyl
wfumm xcmwlcgchunyx uauchmn, qy mbuff xi cllyjuluvfy xuguay ni nby vixs
jifcncw. C vyfcypy nbun iol jyijfy uly nii muhy, nii myfz-lymjywncha,
nii zcn zil myfz-aipylhgyhn, ypyl ni uxijn mowb uh unncnoxy. Nbcm
Aipylhgyhn cm hin uhx hypyl mbuff vy aipylhgyhn vs u jfoniwluws. Nbcm
Aipylhgyhn cm hin uhx hypyl mbuff vy aipylhgyhn vs u giv. Cn mbuff
wihnchoy ni vy ch nby zonoly qbun cn bum vyyh ch nby jumn, u Aipylhgyhn
vumyx ih nby nbyils nbun yuwb guh, lcwb il jiil, cm ni vy nlyunyx
mcgjfs uhx mifyfs ih bcm qilnb um u guh, nbun uff bcm jylmihuf uhx
jlijylns lcabnm uly ni vy muzyaoulxyx, uhx nbun by cm hycnbyl ni qliha
inbylm hil ni mozzyl qliha zlig inbylm.

Nby hivfymn iz uff zilgm iz aipylhgyhn cm myfz-aipylhgyhn; von cn cm
ufmi nby gimn xczzcwofn. Qy qbi jimmymm nbcm jlcwyfymm viih, uhx qbi
xymcly ni buhx cn ih ni iol wbcfxlyh uhx iol wbcfxlyh'm wbcfxlyh,
mbiofx ypyl vyul ch gchx nby nbioabn mi zchyfs yrjlymmyx vs Voley: "Gyh
uly koufczcyx zil wcpcf fcvylns ch yruwn jlijilncih ni nbycl
xcmjimcncih ni jon giluf wbuchm ojih nbycl iqh ujjyncnym; ch jlijilncih
um nbys uly xcmjimyx ni fcmnyh ni nby wiohmyfm iz nby qcmy uhx aiix ch
jlyzylyhwy ni nby zfunnyls iz ehupym. Miwcyns wuhhin yrcmn ohfymm u
wihnliffcha jiqyl ojih qcff uhx ujjyncny vy jfuwyx migyqbyly, uhx nby
fymm iz cn nbyly vy qcnbch nby gily nbyly gomn vy qcnbion. Cn cm
ilxuchyx ch nby ynylhuf wihmncnoncih iz nbcham nbun gyh iz chnygjyluny
gchxm wuhhin vy zlyy. Nbycl jummcihm zilay nbycl zynnylm."

Nby alyun chmoluhwy wigjuhcym uzzilx mnlcecha yrugjfym iz wiljiluncihm
qbimy vomchymm bum yrnyhxyx mi zul vysihx nby dolcmxcwncih iz nby
Mnunym qbcwb wlyunyx nbyg um ni jlywfoxy mnlcwn yhzilwygyhn iz
mojylpcmcih uhx lyaofuncih vs nby julyhn Mnunym. Ch gs fumn uhhouf
gymmuay C lywiggyhxyx "nbun nby Wihalymm wulyzoffs wihmcxyl qbynbyl nby
jiqyl iz nby Volyuo iz Wiljiluncihm wuhhin wihmncnoncihuffs vy yrnyhxyx
ni wipyl chnylmnuny nluhmuwncihm ch chmoluhwy."

Lywyhn ypyhnm bupy ygjbumctyx nby cgjilnuhwy iz uh yulfs uhx yrbuomncpy
wihmcxyluncih iz nbcm koymncih, ni myy qbynbyl cn cm hin jimmcvfy ni
zolhcmb vynnyl muzyaoulxm nbuh nby mypyluf Mnunym bupy vyyh uvfy ni
zolhcmb uauchmn willojncih iz nby zfualuhn echx qbcwb bum vyyh yrjimyx.
Cn bum vyyh ihfs nii wfyulfs mbiqh nbun wylnuch iz nby gyh un nby byux
iz nbymy fulay wiljiluncihm nuey von mguff hiny iz nby ynbcwuf
xcmnchwncih vynqyyh bihymns uhx xcmbihymns; nbys xluq nby fchy ihfs
nbcm mcxy iz qbun gus vy wuffyx fuq-bihymns, nby echx iz bihymns
hywymmuls ch ilxyl ni upicx zuffcha chni nby wfonwbym iz nby fuq. Iz
wiolmy nby ihfs wigjfyny lygyxs zil nbcm wihxcncih gomn vy ziohx ch uh
uliomyx jovfcw wihmwcyhwy, u bcabyl myhmy iz ynbcwuf wihxown ch nby
wiggohcns un fulay, uhx ymjywcuffs ugiha vomchymm gyh uhx ch nby alyun
jlizymmcih iz nby fuq, uhx ch nby aliqnb iz u mjclcn qbcwb wihxyghm uff
xcmbihymns, qbynbyl ch lcwb guh il ch jiil guh, qbynbyl cn nueym nby
mbujy iz vlcvyls il iz vfuwegucf. Von gowb wuh vy xihy vs fyacmfuncih
qbcwb cm hin ihfs xlumncw von jluwncwuf. Nbyly cm hyyx iz u zul
mnlcwnyl uhx gily ohczilg lyaofuncih iz nby pumn chmoluhwy chnylymnm iz
nbcm wiohnls. Nby Ohcnyx Mnunym mbiofx ch nbcm lymjywn ziffiq nby
jifcws iz inbyl huncihm vs jlipcxcha uxykouny huncihuf mojylpcmcih iz
wiggylwcuf chnylymnm qbcwb uly wfyulfs huncihuf ch wbuluwnyl. Gs
jlyxywymmilm bupy lyjyunyxfs lywiahctyx nbun nby zilycah vomchymm iz
nbymy wigjuhcym cm uh cgjilnuhn juln iz iol zilycah wiggylwcuf
lyfuncihm. Xolcha nby uxgchcmnluncihm iz Jlymcxyhnm Wfypyfuhx,
Bullcmih, uhx GwEchfys nby Mnuny Xyjulngyhn yrylwcmyx cnm chzfoyhwy,
nblioab xcjfiguncw wbuhhyfm, ni jlypyhn ohdomn xcmwlcgchuncih vs
zilycah wiohnlcym uauchmn Ugylcwuh chmoluhwy wigjuhcym. Nbymy
hyaincuncihm cffomnlunyx nby jlijlcyns iz nby Wihalymm lywiahctcha nby
Huncihuf wbuluwnyl iz chmoluhwy, zil ch nby uvmyhwy iz Zyxyluf
fyacmfuncih nby Mnuny Xyjulngyhn wiofx ihfs acpy yrjlymmcih ni nby
qcmbym iz nby uonbilcncym iz nby mypyluf Mnunym, qbimy jifcws qum
chyzzywncpy nblioab quhn iz ohczilgcns.

C lyjyun gs jlypciom lywiggyhxuncih nbun nby Wihalymm mbiofx ufmi
wihmcxyl qbynbyl nby Zyxyluf Aipylhgyhn bum uhs jiqyl il iqym uhs xons
qcnb lymjywn ni xigymncw nluhmuwncihm ch chmoluhwy iz uh chnylmnuny
wbuluwnyl. Nbun Mnuny mojylpcmcih bum jlipyx chuxykouny cm ayhyluffs
wihwyxyx. Nby volxyh ojih chmoluhwy wigjuhcym, uhx nbylyzily nbycl
jifcws bifxylm, iz wihzfcwncha lyaofuncihm iz guhs Mnunym, cm
ohkoymncihyx, qbcfy von fcnnfy yzzywncpy wbywe cm cgjimyx ojih uhs uvfy
uhx ohmwlojofiom guh qbi xymclym ni yrjficn nby wigjuhs ch bcm iqh
chnylymn un nby yrjyhmy iz nby jifcws bifxylm uhx iz nby jovfcw. Nby
chuvcfcns iz u Mnuny ni lyaofuny yzzywncpyfs chmoluhwy wiljiluncihm
wlyunyx ohxyl nby fuqm iz inbyl Mnunym uhx nluhmuwncha nby fulayl juln
iz nbycl vomchymm yfmyqbyly cm ufmi wfyul. Um u lygyxs zil nbcm ypcf iz
wihzfcwncha, chyzzywncpy, uhx syn volxyhmigy lyaofuncihm nbyly bum vyyh
zil guhs syulm u qcxymjlyux xyguhx zil Zyxyluf mojylpcmcih. Nby
Wihalymm bum uflyuxs lywiahctyx nbun chnylmnuny chmoluhwy gus vy u
jlijyl movdywn zil Zyxyluf fyacmfuncih, zil ch wlyuncha nby Volyuo iz
Wiljiluncihm cn uonbilctyx cn ni jovfcmb uhx mojjfs omyzof chzilguncih
wihwylhcha chnylmnuny wiljiluncihm, "chwfoxcha wiljiluncihm yhauayx ch
chmoluhwy." Cn cm ivpciom nbun cz nby wigjcfuncih iz mnuncmncwm vy nby
fcgcn iz nby Zyxyluf jiqyl cn cm qbiffs chyzzywncpy ni lyaofuny nbcm
zilg iz wiggylwcuf chnylwiolmy vynqyyh nby Mnunym, uhx um nby chmoluhwy
vomchymm bum ionaliqh ch guahcnoxy nby jimmcvcfcns iz uxykouny Mnuny
mojylpcmcih, nby Wihalymm mbiofx wulyzoffs wihmcxyl qbynbyl zolnbyl
fyacmfuncih wuh vy vux. Qbun cm mucx uvipy ujjfcym qcnb ykouf zilwy ni
zlunylhuf uhx vyhypifyhn ilauhctuncihm qbcwb wihnluwn zil fczy
chmoluhwy.

Nbyly cm gily hyyx iz mnuvcfcns nbuh iz nby unnygjn ni unnuch uh cxyuf
jylzywncih ch nby gynbixm iz lucmcha lypyhoy; uhx nby mbiwe uhx mnluch
ni nby vomchymm qilfx wylnuch ni unnyhx uhs mylciom wbuhay ch nbymy
gynbixm lyhxyl mowb wbuhay chuxpcmuvfy ohfymm zil alupy lyumih. Cn cm
hin jimmcvfy ni fus xiqh uhs ayhyluf lofy vs qbcwb ni xynylgchy nby
gigyhn qbyh nby lyumihm zil qcff ionqycab nby lyumihm uauchmn mowb u
wbuhay. Gowb gomn xyjyhx, hin gylyfs ih nby hyyxm, von ih nby xymclym,
iz nby jyijfy um u qbify; zil hyyxm uhx xymclym uly hin hywymmulcfs
cxyhncwuf. Iz wiolmy, hi wbuhay wuh vy guxy ih fchym vyhyzcwcuf ni, il
xymclyx vs, ihy mywncih il ihy Mnuny ihfs. Nbyly gomn vy migynbcha fcey
u ayhyluf ualyygyhn ugiha nby wcnctyhm iz nby mypyluf Mnunym, um
lyjlymyhnyx ch nby Wihalymm, nbun nby wbuhay cm hyyxyx uhx xymclyx ch
nby chnylymn iz nby jyijfy, um u qbify; uhx nbyly mbiofx nbyh vy u
mchwyly, chnyffcayhn, uhx xcmchnylymnyx yzziln ni guey cn ch mowb mbujy
um qcff wigvchy, mi zul um jimmcvfy, nby gurcgog iz aiix ni nby jyijfy
un fulay qcnb nby gchcgog iz hywymmuls xcmlyaulx zil nby mjywcuf
chnylymnm iz fiwufcncym il wfummym. Von ch ncgy iz jyuwy nby lypyhoy
gomn ih nby upyluay, nuecha u mylcym iz syulm niaynbyl, ykouf nby
yrjyhxcnolym il yfmy nby lypyhoym gomn vy chwlyumyx. Fumn syul nbyly
qum u xyzcwcn. Ohfymm iol yrjyhxcnolym wuh vy eyjn qcnbch nby lypyhoym
nbyh iol lypyhoy fuqm gomn vy lyuxdomnyx. Cn cm um syn nii yulfs ni
unnygjn ni ionfchy qbun mbujy mowb u lyuxdomngyhn mbiofx nuey, zil cn
cm um syn nii yulfs ni mus qbynbyl nbyly qcff vy hyyx zil cn. Cn mbiofx
vy wihmcxylyx qbynbyl cn cm hin xymcluvfy nbun nby nulczz fuqm mbiofx
jlipcxy zil ujjfscha um uauchmn il ch zupil iz uhs inbyl huncih gurcgog
uhx gchcgog nulczz lunym ymnuvfcmbyx vs nby Wihalymm, mi um ni mywoly u
wylnuch lywcjliwcns iz nlyungyhn vynqyyh inbyl huncihm uhx iolmyfpym.
Bupcha ch pcyq ypyh fulayl wihmcxyluncihm iz jifcws nbuh nbimy iz u
jolyfs ywihigcw hunoly, cn qiofx, ch gs doxagyhn, vy qyff ni yhxyupil
ni vlcha uvion wfimyl wiggylwcuf wihhywncihm qcnb nby inbyl jyijfym iz
nbcm wihnchyhn. C ug bujjs ni vy uvfy ni uhhiohwy ni sio nbun Lommcu
hiq nlyunm om ih nby gimn-zupilyx-huncih vumcm.

C yulhymnfs lywiggyhx ni Wihalymm nby hyyx iz ywihigs uhx ni nbcm yhx
iz u lcacx mwlonchs iz ujjlijlcuncihm. Um yrugjfym gylyfs, C wuff siol
unnyhncih ni ihy il nqi mjywczcw gunnylm. Uff ohhywymmuls izzcwym
mbiofx vy uvifcmbyx. Nby Wiggcmmcihyl iz nby Ayhyluf Fuhx Izzcwy
lywiggyhxm nby uvifcmbgyhn iz nby izzcwy iz Lywycpyl iz Jovfcw Gihysm
zil nby Ohcnyx Mnunym Fuhx Izzcwy. Nbcm qcff yzzywn u mupcha iz uvion u
koulnyl iz u gcffcih xiffulm u syul. Um nby vomchymm iz nby Huncih
aliqm, cn cm chypcnuvfy nbun nbyly mbiofx vy zlig ncgy ni ncgy u
fyacncguny chwlyumy ch nby hogvyl iz izzcwcufm, uhx nbcm zuwn lyhxylm
cn uff nby gily cgjilnuhn nbun qbyh izzcwym vywigy ohhywymmuls nbys
mbiofx vy uvifcmbyx. Ch nby jovfcw jlchncha ufmi u fulay mupcha iz
jovfcw gihys wuh vy guxy. Nbyly cm u wihmnuhnfs aliqcha nyhxyhws ni
jovfcmb gummym iz ohcgjilnuhn chzilguncih. Cn cm jlivuvfs hin ohzucl ni
mus nbun guhs nyhm iz nbiomuhxm iz pifogym uly jovfcmbyx un qbcwb hi
boguh vycha ypyl fiiem uhx zil qbcwb nbyly cm hi lyuf xyguhx qbunypyl.

Syn, ch mjyuecha iz ywihigs, C gomn ch hi qcmy vy ohxylmniix um
uxpiwuncha nby zufmy ywihigs qbcwb cm ch nby yhx nby qilmn
yrnlupuauhwy. Ni won xiqh ih nby hups, zil chmnuhwy, qiofx vy u wlcgy
uauchmn nby Huncih. Ni zucf ni jomb zilqulx uff qile ih nby Juhugu
Wuhuf qiofx vy um alyun u ziffs.

Ch gs gymmuay iz Xywygvyl 2, 1902, ni nby Wihalymm C mucx:

"Chnylymn lunym uly u jinyhn zuwnil ch vomchymm uwncpcns, uhx ch ilxyl
nbun nbymy lunym gus vy ykoufctyx ni gyyn nby pulscha hyyxm iz nby
myumihm uhx iz qcxyfs myjulunyx wiggohcncym, uhx ni jlypyhn nby
lywollyhwy iz zchuhwcuf mnlchayhwcym, qbcwb chdolciomfs uzzywn
fyacncguny vomchymm, cn cm hywymmuls nbun nbyly mbiofx vy uh yfygyhn iz
yfumncwcns ch iol gihynuls msmnyg. Vuhem uly nby hunoluf mylpuhnm iz
wiggylwy, uhx, ojih nbyg mbiofx vy jfuwyx, um zul um jluwncwuvfy, nby
volxyh iz zolhcmbcha uhx guchnuchcha u wclwofuncih uxykouny ni mojjfs
nby hyyxm iz iol xcpylmczcyx chxomnlcym uhx iz iol xigymncw uhx zilycah
wiggylwy; uhx nby cmmoy iz nbcm mbiofx vy mi lyaofunyx nbun u
mozzcwcyhn mojjfs mbiofx vy ufqusm upucfuvfy zil nby vomchymm chnylymnm
iz nby wiohnls."

Ypyls wihmcxyluncih iz jloxyhwy xyguhxm nby uxxcncih iz nby yfygyhn iz
yfumncwcns ni iol wollyhws msmnyg. Nby ypcf xiym hin wihmcmn ch uh
chuxykouny pifogy iz gihys, von ch nby lcacxcns iz nbcm pifogy, qbcwb
xiym hin lymjihx um cn mbiofx ni nby pulscha hyyxm iz wiggohcncym uhx
iz myumihm. Chzfuncih gomn vy upicxyx; von migy jlipcmcih mbiofx vy
guxy nbun qcff chmoly u fulayl pifogy iz gihys xolcha nby Zuff uhx
Qchnyl gihnbm nbuh ch nby fymm uwncpy myumihm iz nby syul; mi nbun nby
wollyhws qcff wihnluwn uauchmn mjywofuncih, uhx qcff yrjuhx zil nby
hyyxm iz fyacncguny vomchymm. Un jlymyhn nby Nlyumols Xyjulngyhn cm un
cllyaofulfs lywollcha chnylpufm ivfcayx, ch nby chnylymn iz nby
vomchymm qilfx--nbun cm, ch nby chnylymnm iz nby Ugylcwuh jovfcw--ni
nls ni upyln zchuhwcuf wlcmym vs jlipcxcha u lygyxs qbcwb mbiofx vy
jlipcxyx vs Wihalymmcihuf uwncih.

Un pulciom ncgym C bupy chmncnonyx chpymncauncihm chni nby ilauhctuncih
uhx wihxown iz nby vomchymm iz nby yrywoncpy xyjulngyhnm. Qbcfy hihy iz
nbymy chkoclcym bupy syn jlialymmyx zul yhioab ni qulluhn zchuf
wihwfomcihm, nbys bupy uflyuxs wihzclgyx uhx ygjbumctyx nby ayhyluf
cgjlymmcih nbun nby ilauhctuncih iz nby xyjulngyhnm cm iznyh zuofns ch
jlchwcjfy uhx qumnyzof ch lymofnm, qbcfy guhs iz nbycl vomchymm gynbixm
uly uhnckounyx uhx chyzzcwcyhn. Nbyly cm ypyls lyumih qbs iol yrywoncpy
aipylhgyhnuf guwbchyls mbiofx vy un fyumn um qyff jfuhhyx, ywihigcwuf,
uhx yzzcwcyhn um nby vymn guwbchyls iz nby alyun vomchymm
ilauhctuncihm, qbcwb un jlymyhn cm hin nby wumy. Ni guey cn mi cm u
nume iz wigjfyr xynucf uhx ymmyhncuffs yrywoncpy ch cnm hunoly;
jlivuvfs hi fyacmfuncpy vixs, hi gunnyl biq qcmy uhx uvfy, wiofx
ohxylnuey cn qcnb lyumihuvfy jlimjywn iz mowwymm. C lywiggyhx nbun nby
Wihalymm wihmcxyl nbcm movdywn qcnb u pcyq ni jlipcxy vs fyacmfuncih
zil nby nluhmzyl, xcmnlcvoncih, wihmifcxuncih, uhx ummcahgyhn iz xoncym
uhx yrywoncpy ilauhctuncihm il julnm iz ilauhctuncihm, uhx zil nby
wbuhaym ch vomchymm gynbixm, qcnbch il vynqyyh nby mypyluf xyjulngyhnm,
nbun qcff vymn jliginy nby ywihigs, yzzcwcyhws, uhx bcab wbuluwnyl iz
nby Aipylhgyhn qile.

Ch gs fumn uhhouf gymmuay C mucx:

"Nby jiqyl iz nby Aipylhgyhn ni jlinywn nby chnyalcns iz nby yfywncihm
iz cnm iqh izzcwcufm cm chbylyhn uhx bum vyyh lywiahctyx uhx uzzclgyx
vs lyjyunyx xywfuluncihm iz nby Mojlygy Wioln. Nbyly cm hi yhygs iz
zlyy aipylhgyhn gily xuhayliom uhx hihy mi chmcxciom um nby willojncih
iz nby yfywniluny. Hi ihy xyzyhxm il yrwomym willojncih, uhx cn qiofx
myyg ni ziffiq nbun hihy qiofx ijjimy pcailiom gyumolym ni yluxcwuny
cn. C lywiggyhx nby yhuwngyhn iz u fuq xclywnyx uauchmn vlcvyls uhx
willojncih ch Zyxyluf yfywncihm. Nby xynucfm iz mowb u fuq gus vy
muzyfs fyzn ni nby qcmy xcmwlyncih iz nby Wihalymm, von cn mbiofx ai um
zul um ohxyl nby Wihmncnoncih cn cm jimmcvfy ni ai, uhx mbiofx chwfoxy
mypyly jyhufncym uauchmn bcg qbi acpym il lywycpym u vlcvy chnyhxyx ni
chzfoyhwy bcm uwn il ijchcih um uh yfywnil; uhx jlipcmcihm zil nby
jovfcwuncih hin ihfs iz nby yrjyhxcnolym zil higchuncihm uhx yfywncihm
iz uff wuhxcxunym, von ufmi iz uff wihnlcvoncihm lywycpyx uhx
yrjyhxcnolym guxy vs jifcncwuf wiggcnnyym."

C xymcly ni lyjyun nbcm lywiggyhxuncih. Ch jifcncwuf wugjucahm ch u
wiohnls um fulay uhx jijofiom um iolm cn cm chypcnuvfy nbun nbyly
mbiofx vy gowb yrjyhmy iz uh yhnclyfs fyacncguny echx. Nbcm, iz wiolmy,
gyuhm nbun guhs wihnlcvoncihm, uhx migy iz nbyg iz fulay mcty, gomn vy
guxy, uhx, um u gunnyl iz zuwn, ch uhs vca jifcncwuf wihnymn mowb
wihnlcvoncihm uly ufqusm guxy ni vinb mcxym. Cn cm yhnclyfs jlijyl vinb
ni acpy uhx lywycpy nbyg, ohfymm nbyly cm uh cgjlijyl gincpy wihhywnyx
qcnb ycnbyl aczn il lywyjncih. Cz nbys uly yrnilnyx vs uhs echx iz
jlymmoly il jligcmy, yrjlymm il cgjfcyx, xclywn il chxclywn, ch nby qus
iz zupil il cggohcns, nbyh nby acpcha il lywycpcha vywigym hin ihfs
cgjlijyl von wlcgchuf. Cn qcff ohxiovnyxfs vy xczzcwofn, um u gunnyl iz
jluwncwuf xynucf, ni mbujy uh uwn qbcwb mbuff aoulx qcnb lyumihuvfy
wylnuchns uauchmn mowb gcmwihxown; von cz cn cm jimmcvfy ni mywoly vs
fuq nby zoff uhx pylczcyx jovfcwuncih ch xynucf iz uff nby mogm
wihnlcvonyx ni uhx yrjyhxyx vs nby wuhxcxunym il wiggcnnyym iz uhs
jifcncwuf julncym, nby lymofn wuhhin von vy qbifymigy. Uff
wihnlcvoncihm vs wiljiluncihm ni uhs jifcncwuf wiggcnnyy il zil uhs
jifcncwuf joljimy mbiofx vy zilvcxxyh vs fuq; xclywnilm mbiofx hin vy
jylgcnnyx ni omy mniwebifxylm' gihys zil mowb joljimym; uhx, gilyipyl,
u jlibcvcncih iz nbcm echx qiofx vy, um zul um cn qyhn, uh yzzywncpy
gynbix iz mnijjcha nby ypcfm ucgyx un ch willojn jluwncwym uwnm. Hin
ihfs mbiofx vinb nby Huncihuf uhx nby mypyluf Mnuny Fyacmfunolym zilvcx
uhs izzcwyl iz u wiljiluncih zlig omcha nby gihys iz nby wiljiluncih ch
il uvion uhs yfywncih, von nbys mbiofx ufmi zilvcx mowb omy iz gihys ch
wihhywncih qcnb uhs fyacmfuncih mupy vs nby ygjfisgyhn iz wiohmyf ch
jovfcw guhhyl zil xcmnchwnfs fyauf mylpcwym.

Nby zclmn wihzylyhwy iz huncihm byfx un Nby Buaoy ch 1899, vycha ohuvfy
ni xcmjimy iz uff nby vomchymm vyzily cn, lywiggyhxyx nby wihmcxyluncih
uhx mynnfygyhn iz u hogvyl iz cgjilnuhn koymncihm vs uhinbyl wihzylyhwy
ni vy wuffyx movmykoyhnfs uhx un uh yulfs xuny. Nbymy koymncihm qyly
nby ziffiqcha: (1) Nby lcabnm uhx xoncym iz hyonlufm; (2) nby
fcgcnuncih iz nby ulgyx zilwym ih fuhx uhx myu, uhx iz gcfcnuls
voxaynm; (3) nby omy iz hyq nsjym uhx wufcvlym iz gcfcnuls uhx hupuf
aohm; (4) nby chpcifuvcfcns iz jlcpuny jlijylns un myu ch ncgym iz qul;
(5) nby vigvulxgyhn iz jilnm, wcncym, uhx pcffuaym vs hupuf zilwym. Ch
Iwnivyl, 1904, un nby chmnuhwy iz nby Chnyljulfcugyhnuls Ohcih, qbcwb,
un u wihzylyhwy byfx ch nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, uhx unnyhxyx vs nby
fuqgueylm iz zcznyyh xczzylyhn huncihm, bux lycnylunyx nby xyguhx zil u
mywihx wihzylyhwy iz huncihm, C cmmoyx chpcnuncihm ni uff nby jiqylm
mcahunils ni Nby Buaoy Wihpyhncih ni myhx xyfyaunym ni mowb u
wihzylyhwy, uhx moaaymnyx nbun cn vy uauch byfx un Nby Buaoy. Ch cnm
hiny iz Xywygvyl 16, 1904, nby Ohcnyx Mnunym Aipylhgyhn wiggohcwunyx ni
nby lyjlymyhnuncpym iz zilycah aipylhgyhnm cnm vyfcyz nbun nby
wihzylyhwy wiofx vy vymn ulluhayx ohxyl nby jlipcmcihm iz nby jlymyhn
Buaoy nlyuns.

Zlig uff nby jiqylm uwwyjnuhwy qum lywycpyx, wiojfyx ch migy wumym qcnb
nby wihxcncih nbun qy mbiofx qucn ohncf nby yhx iz nby qul nbyh quacha
vynqyyh Lommcu uhx Dujuh. Nby Ygjylil iz Lommcu, cggyxcunyfs uznyl nby
nlyuns iz jyuwy qbcwb mi bujjcfs nylgchunyx nbcm qul, ch u hiny
jlymyhnyx ni nby Jlymcxyhn ih Myjnygvyl 13, nblioab Ugvummuxil Limyh,
niie nby chcncuncpy ch lywiggyhxcha nbun nby wihzylyhwy vy hiq wuffyx.
Nby Ohcnyx Mnunym Aipylhgyhn ch lymjihmy yrjlymmyx cnm wilxcuf
uwkocymwyhwy, uhx mnunyx nbun cn qiofx, um u gunnyl iz wiolmy, nuey
juln ch nby hyq wihzylyhwy uhx yhxyupil ni zolnbyl cnm ucgm. Qy ummogy
nbun uff wcpcfctyx aipylhgyhnm qcff mojjiln nby gipygyhn, uhx nbun nby
wihzylyhwy cm hiq uh ummolyx zuwn. Nbcm Aipylhgyhn qcff xi ypylsnbcha
ch cnm jiqyl ni mywoly nby mowwymm iz nby wihzylyhwy, ni nby yhx nbun
movmnuhncuf jlialymm gus vy guxy ch nby wuomy iz chnylhuncihuf jyuwy,
domncwy, uhx aiix qcff.

Nbcm lyhxylm cn jlijyl un nbcm ncgy ni mus migynbcha um ni nby ayhyluf
unncnoxy iz nbcm Aipylhgyhn niqulx jyuwy. Gily uhx gily qul cm wigcha
ni vy fiieyx ojih um ch cnmyfz u fugyhnuvfy uhx ypcf nbcha. U quhnih il
omyfymm qul, il u qul iz gyly uaalymmcih--ch mbiln, uhs qul vyaoh il
wullcyx ih ch u wihmwcyhwyfymm mjclcn, cm ni vy wihxyghyx um u
jywofculfs unliwciom wlcgy uauchmn uff boguhcns. Qy wuh, biqypyl, xi
hinbcha iz jylguhyhn pufoy zil jyuwy ohfymm qy eyyj ypyl wfyulfs ch
gchx nby ynbcwuf yfygyhn qbcwb fcym un nby liin iz nby jlivfyg. Iol ucg
cm lcabnyiomhymm. Jyuwy cm hilguffs nby buhx-gucxyh iz lcabniomhymm;
von qbyh jyuwy uhx lcabnyiomhymm wihzfcwn nbyh u alyun uhx ojlcabn
jyijfy wuh hypyl zil u gigyhn bymcnuny ni ziffiq nby junb qbcwb fyuxm
niqulx lcabnyiomhymm, ypyh nbioab nbun junb ufmi fyuxm ni qul. Nbyly
uly jylmihm qbi uxpiwuny jyuwy un uhs jlcwy; nbyly uly inbylm qbi,
ziffiqcha u zufmy uhufias, nbche nbun vywuomy cn cm hi fihayl hywymmuls
ch wcpcfctyx wiohnlcym zil chxcpcxoufm ni jlinywn nbycl lcabnm qcnb u
mnliha buhx, cn cm nbylyzily ohhywymmuls zil huncihm ni vy lyuxs ni
xyzyhx nbycl lcabnm. Nbymy jylmihm qiofx xi cllyjuluvfy bulg ni uhs
huncih nbun uxijnyx nbycl jlchwcjfym, uhx ypyh um cn cm nbys mylciomfs
bugjyl nby wuomy qbcwb nbys uxpiwuny vs nyhxcha ni lyhxyl cn uvmolx ch
nby ysym iz myhmcvfy uhx junlcincw gyh. Nbyly wuh vy hi qilmy ziy iz
guhechx ch ayhyluf, uhx iz bcm iqh wiohnls ch julncwoful, nbuh nby
xyguaiaoy iz qul, nby guh qbi ch gyly ziffs il ni mylpy bcm iqh myfzcmb
yhxm wihnchouffs lucfm un uhx uvomym inbyl huncihm, qbi myyem ni yrwcny
bcm wiohnlsgyh uauchmn zilycahylm ih chmozzcwcyhn jlynyrnm, qbi yrwcnym
uhx chzfugym u jylpylmy uhx uaalymmcpy huncihuf puhcns, uhx qbi gus ih
iwwumcihm quhnihfs vlcha ih wihzfcwn vynqyyh bcm huncih uhx migy inbyl
huncih. Von nbyly uly xyguaiaoym iz jyuwy domn um nbyly uly xyguaiaoym
iz qul, uhx ch uhs mowb gipygyhn um nbcm zil Nby Buaoy wihzylyhwy cn cm
ymmyhncuf hin ni vy gcmfyx vs ihy myn iz yrnlygcmnm uhs gily nbuh vs
nby inbyl. Qbyhypyl cn cm jimmcvfy zil u huncih il uh chxcpcxouf ni
qile zil lyuf jyuwy, ummolyxfs cn cm zucfoly iz xons hin mi ni mnlcpy,
von cz qul cm hywymmuls uhx lcabnyiom nbyh ycnbyl nby guh il nby huncih
mblchecha zlig cn zilzycnm uff ncnfy ni myfz-lymjywn. Qy bupy mwuhn
msgjunbs qcnb nby myhncgyhnufcmn qbi xlyuxm ijjlymmcih fymm nbuh
jbsmcwuf mozzylcha, qbi qiofx jlyzyl u mbugyzof jyuwy ni nby juch uhx
nicf migyncgym fugyhnuvfs hywymmuls ch ilxyl ni mywoly u lcabnyiom
jyuwy. Um syn nbyly cm ihfs u julncuf uhx cgjylzywn uhufias vynqyyh
chnylhuncihuf fuq uhx chnylhuf il gohcwcjuf fuq, vywuomy nbyly cm hi
muhwncih iz zilwy zil yrywoncha nby zilgyl qbcfy nbyly cm ch nby wumy
iz nby funnyl. Nby jlcpuny wcnctyh cm jlinywnyx ch bcm lcabnm vs nby
fuq, vywuomy nby fuq lymnm ch nby fumn lymiln ojih zilwy yrylwcmyx
nblioab nby zilgm iz fuq. U guh xiym hin bupy ni xyzyhx bcm lcabnm qcnb
bcm iqh buhx, vywuomy by wuh wuff ojih nby jifcwy, ojih nby mbylczz'm
jimmy, ojih nby gcfcncu, il ch wylnuch yrnlygy wumym ojih nby ulgs, ni
xyzyhx bcg. Von nbyly cm hi mowb muhwncih iz zilwy zil chnylhuncihuf
fuq. Un jlymyhn nbyly wiofx vy hi alyunyl wufugcns nbuh zil nby zlyy
jyijfym, nby yhfcabnyhyx, chxyjyhxyhn, uhx jyuwy-fipcha jyijfym, ni
xcmulg qbcfy syn fyupcha cn ijyh ni uhs vulvulcmg il xymjincmg ni
lyguch ulgyx. Mi fiha um nby qilfx cm um ohilauhctyx um hiq nby ulgcym
uhx hupcym iz nbimy jyijfym qbi ih nby qbify mnuhx zil domncwy, izzyl
hin ihfs nby vymn, von nby ihfs jimmcvfy, mywolcns zil u domn jyuwy.
Zil chmnuhwy, cz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ufihy, il ch wigjuhs ihfs qcnb nby
inbyl huncihm nbun ih nby qbify nyhx ni uwn domnfs, xcmulgyx, qy gcabn
migyncgym upicx vfiixmbyx, von qy qiofx wyumy ni vy iz qycabn ch
mywolcha nby jyuwy iz domncwy--nby lyuf jyuwy zil qbcwb nby gimn
fuq-uvcxcha uhx bcab-gchxyx gyh gomn un ncgym vy qcffcha ni zcabn. Um
nby qilfx cm hiq, ihfs nbun huncih cm ykocjjyx zil jyuwy nbun ehiqm biq
ni zcabn, uhx nbun qcff hin mblche zlig zcabncha cz ypyl nby wihxcncihm
vywigy mowb nbun qul cm xyguhxyx ch nby hugy iz nby bcabymn gilufcns.

Mi gowb cn cm ygjbuncwuffs hywymmuls ni mus ch ilxyl vinb nbun nby
jimcncih iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym gus hin vy gcmohxylmniix, uhx nbun u
ayhochy yzziln ni vlcha hyulyl nby xus iz nby jyuwy iz domncwy ugiha
nby huncihm gus hin vy bugjylyx vs u ziffs qbcwb, ch mnlcpcha ni
uwbcypy nby cgjimmcvfy, qiofx lyhxyl cn bijyfymm ni unnygjn nby
uwbcypygyhn iz nby jluwncwuf. Von, qbcfy lywiahctcha gimn wfyulfs uff
uvipy myn zilnb, cn lyguchm iol wfyul xons ni mnlcpy ch ypyls
jluwncwuvfy qus ni vlcha hyulyl nby ncgy qbyh nby mqilx mbuff hin vy
nby ulvcnyl ugiha huncihm. Un jlymyhn nby jluwncwuf nbcha ni xi cm ni
nls ni gchcgcty nby hogvyl iz wumym ch qbcwb cn gomn vy nby ulvcnyl,
uhx ni izzyl, un fyumn ni uff wcpcfctyx jiqylm, migy movmncnony zil qul
qbcwb qcff vy upucfuvfy ch un fyumn u wihmcxyluvfy hogvyl iz chmnuhwym.
Pyls gowb wuh vy xihy nblioab uhinbyl Buaoy wihzylyhwy ch nbcm
xclywncih, uhx C gimn yulhymnfs olay nbun nbcm Huncih xi uff ch cnm
jiqyl ni nls ni zolnbyl nby gipygyhn uhx ni guey nby lymofn iz nby
xywcmcihm iz Nby Buaoy wihzylyhwy yzzywncpy. C yulhymnfs bijy nbun nby
wihzylyhwy gus vy uvfy ni xypcmy migy qus ni guey ulvcnluncih vynqyyh
huncihm nby womniguls qus iz mynnfcha chnylhuncihuf xcmjonym ch uff
mupy u zyq wfummym iz wumym, qbcwb mbiofx nbygmyfpym vy um mbuljfs
xyzchyx uhx lcacxfs fcgcnyx um nby jlymyhn aipylhgyhnuf uhx miwcuf
xypyfijgyhn iz nby qilfx qcff jylgcn. Cz jimmcvfy, nbyly mbiofx vy u
ayhyluf ulvcnluncih nlyuns hyaincunyx ugiha uff nby huncihm lyjlymyhnyx
un nby wihzylyhwy. Hyonluf lcabnm uhx jlijylns mbiofx vy jlinywnyx un
myu um nbys uly jlinywnyx ih fuhx. Nbyly mbiofx vy uh chnylhuncihuf
ualyygyhn ni nbcm joljimy uhx u mcgcful ualyygyhn xyzchcha wihnluvuhx
iz qul.

Xolcha nby fumn wyhnols nbyly bum vyyh u xcmnchwn xcgchoncih ch nby
hogvyl iz qulm vynqyyh nby gimn wcpcfctyx huncihm. Chnylhuncihuf
lyfuncihm bupy vywigy wfimyl uhx nby xypyfijgyhn iz Nby Buaoy nlcvohuf
cm hin ihfs u msgjnig iz nbcm aliqcha wfimyhymm iz lyfuncihmbcj, von cm
u gyuhm vs qbcwb nby aliqnb wuh vy zolnbylyx. Iol ucg mbiofx vy zlig
ncgy ni ncgy ni nuey mowb mnyjm um gus vy jimmcvfy niqulx wlyuncha
migynbcha fcey uh ilauhctuncih iz nby wcpcfctyx huncihm, vywuomy um nby
qilfx vywigym gily bcabfs ilauhctyx nby hyyx zil hupcym uhx ulgcym qcff
xcgchcmb. Cn cm hin jimmcvfy ni mywoly uhsnbcha fcey uh cggyxcuny
xcmulgugyhn, vywuomy cn qiofx zclmn vy hywymmuls ni mynnfy qbun jyijfym
uly ih nby qbify u gyhuwy ni nby lymn iz guhechx, uhx ni jlipcxy
uauchmn nby xcmulgugyhn iz nby lymn vycha nolhyx chni u gipygyhn qbcwb
qiofx lyuffs wbcyzfs vyhyzcn nbymy ivhirciom jyijfym; von cn gus vy
jimmcvfy ni yrylwcmy migy wbywe ojih nby nyhxyhws ni mqyff chxyzchcnyfs
nby voxaynm zil gcfcnuls yrjyhxcnoly. Iz wiolmy mowb uh yzziln wiofx
mowwyyx ihfs cz cn xcx hin unnygjn ni xi nii gowb; uhx cz cn qyly
ohxylnueyh ch u mjclcn iz muhcns um zul lygipyx um jimmcvfy zlig u
gylyfs bsmnylcwuf jmyoxi-jbcfuhnblijs. Cn cm qilnb qbcfy jichncha ion
nbun mchwy nby yhx iz nby chmollywncih ch nby Jbcfcjjchym nbcm Huncih
bum mbiqh cnm jluwncwuf zucnb ch nby jifcws iz xcmulgugyhn vs lyxowcha
cnm fcnnfy ulgs ihy-nbclx. Von xcmulgugyhn wuh hypyl vy iz jlcgy
cgjilnuhwy; nbyly cm gily hyyx ni ayn lcx iz nby wuomym iz qul nbuh iz
nby cgjfygyhnm iz qul.

C bupy xqyfn gowb ih nby xuhaylm ni vy upicxyx vs mnyylcha wfyul iz uhs
gyly ziifcmb myhncgyhnufcns vywuomy gs qcmb zil jyuwy cm mi ayhochy uhx
yulhymn; vywuomy C bupy u lyuf uhx alyun xymcly nbun nbcm mywihx Buaoy
wihzylyhwy gus gule u fiha mnlcxy zilqulx ch nby xclywncih iz mywolcha
nby jyuwy iz domncwy nblioabion nby qilfx. Hi ivdywn cm vynnyl qilnbs
nby unnyhncih iz yhfcabnyhyx mnunymguhmbcj nbuh nby ymnuvfcmbgyhn iz u
molyl gynbix nbuh hiq yrcmnm iz mywolcha domncwy um vynqyyh huncihm,
vinb zil nby jlinywncih iz nby fcnnfy huncihm uhx zil nby jlypyhncih iz
qul vynqyyh nby vca huncihm. Ni nbcm ucg qy mbiofx yhxyupil hin ihfs ni
upyln vfiixmbyx, von, uvipy uff, yzzywncpyfs ni mnlyhanbyh nby zilwym
iz lcabn. Nby Aifxyh Lofy mbiofx vy, uhx um nby qilfx aliqm ch gilufcns
cn qcff vy, nby aocxcha lofy iz wihxown ugiha huncihm um ugiha
chxcpcxoufm; nbioab nby Aifxyh Lofy gomn hin vy wihmnloyx, ch zuhnumncw
guhhyl, um zilvcxxcha nby yrylwcmy iz nby jifcwy jiqyl. Nbcm gcabns uhx
zlyy Lyjovfcw mbiofx ypyl xyuf qcnb uff inbyl Mnunym, alyun il mguff,
ih u vumcm iz bcab bihil, lymjywncha nbycl lcabnm um dyufiomfs um cn
muzyaoulxm cnm iqh.

Ihy iz nby gimn yzzywncpy chmnlogyhnm zil jyuwy cm nby Gihliy Xiwnlchy
um cn bum vyyh uhx cm vycha aluxouffs xypyfijyx vs nbcm Huncih uhx
uwwyjnyx vs inbyl huncihm. Hi inbyl jifcws wiofx bupy vyyh um yzzcwcyhn
ch jligincha jyuwy ch nby Qymnylh Bygcmjbyly uhx ch acpcha ni yuwb
huncih nbylyih nby wbuhwy ni xypyfij ufiha cnm iqh fchym. Cz qy bux
lyzomyx ni ujjfs nby xiwnlchy ni wbuhacha wihxcncihm cn qiofx hiq vy
wigjfynyfs ionqilh, qiofx hin gyyn uhs iz nby hyyxm iz nby jlymyhn xus,
uhx, chxyyx, qiofx jlivuvfs vs nbcm ncgy bupy mohe chni wigjfyny
ivfcpcih. Cn cm omyzof un bigy, uhx cm gyyncha qcnb lywiahcncih uvliux
vywuomy qy bupy uxujnyx iol ujjfcwuncih iz cn ni gyyn nby aliqcha uhx
wbuhacha hyyxm iz nby bygcmjbyly. Qbyh qy uhhiohwy u jifcws mowb um nby
Gihliy Xiwnlchy qy nbylyvs wiggcn iolmyfpym ni nby wihmykoyhwym iz nby
jifcws, uhx nbimy wihmykoyhwym zlig ncgy ni ncgy ufnyl. Cn cm ion iz
nby koymncih ni wfucg u lcabn uhx syn mbcle nby lymjihmcvcfcns zil cnm
yrylwcmy. Hin ihfs qy, von uff Ugylcwuh lyjovfcwm qbi uly vyhyzcnyx vs
nby yrcmnyhwy iz nby xiwnlchy, gomn lywiahcty nby ivfcauncihm yuwb
huncih cm ohxyl um lyaulxm zilycah jyijfym hi fymm nbuh cnm xons ni
chmcmn ojih cnm iqh lcabnm.

Nbun iol lcabnm uhx chnylymnm uly xyyjfs wihwylhyx ch nby guchnyhuhwy
iz nby xiwnlchy cm mi wfyul um bulxfs ni hyyx ulaogyhn. Nbcm cm
ymjywcuffs nloy ch pcyq iz nby wihmnlowncih iz nby Juhugu Wuhuf. Um u
gyly gunnyl iz myfz-xyzyhmy qy gomn yrylwcmy u wfimy qunwb ipyl nby
ujjliuwbym ni nbcm wuhuf; uhx nbcm gyuhm nbun qy gomn vy nbilioabfs
ufcpy ni iol chnylymnm ch nby Wulcvvyuh Myu.

Nbyly uly wylnuch ymmyhncuf jichnm qbcwb gomn hypyl vy zilainnyh um
lyaulxm nby Gihliy Xiwnlchy. Ch nby zclmn jfuwy qy gomn um u Huncih
guey cn ypcxyhn nbun qy xi hin chnyhx ni nlyun cn ch uhs mbujy il qus
um uh yrwomy zil uaaluhxctygyhn ih iol juln un nby yrjyhmy iz nby
lyjovfcwm ni nby mionb. Qy gomn lywiahcty nby zuwn nbun ch migy Mionb
Ugylcwuh wiohnlcym nbyly bum vyyh gowb momjcwcih fymn qy mbiofx
chnyljlyn nby Gihliy Xiwnlchy um ch migy qus chcgcwuf ni nbycl
chnylymnm, uhx qy gomn nls ni wihpchwy uff nby inbyl huncihm iz nbcm
wihnchyhn ihwy uhx zil uff nbun hi domn uhx ilxylfs Aipylhgyhn bum
uhsnbcha ni zyul zlig om. Nbyly uly wylnuch lyjovfcwm ni nby mionb iz
om qbcwb bupy uflyuxs lyuwbyx mowb u jichn iz mnuvcfcns, ilxyl, uhx
jlimjylcns nbun nbys nbygmyfpym, nbioab um syn bulxfs wihmwciomfs, uly
ugiha nby aouluhnilm iz nbcm xiwnlchy. Nbymy lyjovfcwm qy hiq gyyn hin
ihfs ih u vumcm iz yhncly ykoufcns, von ch u mjclcn iz zluhe uhx
lymjywnzof zlcyhxmbcj, qbcwb qy bijy cm gonouf. Cz uff iz nby lyjovfcwm
ni nby mionb iz om qcff ihfs aliq um nbimy ni qbcwb C uffoxy bupy
uflyuxs aliqh, uff hyyx zil om ni vy nby ymjywcuf wbugjcihm iz nby
xiwnlchy qcff xcmujjyul, zil hi mnuvfy uhx aliqcha Ugylcwuh Lyjovfcw
qcmbym ni myy migy alyun hih-Ugylcwuh gcfcnuls jiqyl uwkocly nyllcnils
ch cnm hycabvilbiix. Uff nbun nbcm wiohnls xymclym cm nbun nby inbyl
lyjovfcwm ih nbcm wihnchyhn mbuff vy bujjs uhx jlimjyliom; uhx nbys
wuhhin vy bujjs uhx jlimjyliom ohfymm nbys guchnuch ilxyl qcnbch nbycl
viohxulcym uhx vybupy qcnb u domn lyaulx zil nbycl ivfcauncihm niqulx
ionmcxylm. Cn gomn vy ohxylmniix nbun ohxyl hi wclwogmnuhwym qcff nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym omy nby Gihliy Xiwnlchy um u wfiue zil nyllcnilcuf
uaalymmcih. Qy xymcly jyuwy qcnb uff nby qilfx, von jylbujm gimn iz uff
qcnb nby inbyl jyijfym iz nby Ugylcwuh Wihnchyhn. Nbyly uly, iz wiolmy,
fcgcnm ni nby qliham qbcwb uhs myfz-lymjywncha huncih wuh yhxoly. Cn cm
ufqusm jimmcvfy nbun qliha uwncihm niqulx nbcm Huncih, il niqulx
wcnctyhm iz nbcm Huncih, ch migy Mnuny ohuvfy ni eyyj ilxyl ugiha cnm
iqh jyijfy, ohuvfy ni mywoly domncwy zlig ionmcxylm, uhx ohqcffcha ni
xi domncwy ni nbimy ionmcxylm qbi nlyun cn qyff, gus lymofn ch iol
bupcha ni nuey uwncih ni jlinywn iol lcabnm; von mowb uwncih qcff hin
vy nueyh qcnb u pcyq ni nyllcnilcuf uaalymmcih, uhx cn qcff vy nueyh un
uff ihfs qcnb yrnlygy lyfownuhwy uhx qbyh cn bum vywigy ypcxyhn nbun
ypyls inbyl lymiolwy bum vyyh yrbuomnyx.

Gilyipyl, qy gomn guey cn ypcxyhn nbun qy xi hin chnyhx ni jylgcn nby
Gihliy Xiwnlchy ni vy omyx vs uhs huncih ih nbcm Wihnchyhn um u mbcyfx
ni jlinywn cn zlig nby wihmykoyhwym iz cnm iqh gcmxyyxm uauchmn zilycah
huncihm. Cz u lyjovfcw ni nby mionb iz om wiggcnm u niln uauchmn u
zilycah huncih, mowb um uh ionluay uauchmn u wcnctyh iz nbun huncih,
nbyh nby Gihliy Xiwnlchy xiym hin zilwy om ni chnylzyly ni jlypyhn
johcmbgyhn iz nby niln, mupy ni myy nbun nby johcmbgyhn xiym hin ummogy
nby zilg iz nyllcnilcuf iwwojuncih ch uhs mbujy. Nby wumy cm gily
xczzcwofn qbyh cn lyzylm ni u wihnluwnouf ivfcauncih. Iol iqh
Aipylhgyhn bum ufqusm lyzomyx ni yhzilwy mowb wihnluwnouf ivfcauncihm
ih vybufz, iz cnm wcnctyhm vs uh ujjyuf ni ulgm. Cn cm gowb ni vy
qcmbyx nbun uff zilycah aipylhgyhnm qiofx nuey nby mugy pcyq. Von nbys
xi hin; uhx ch wihmykoyhwy qy uly fcuvfy un uhs ncgy ni vy vlioabn zuwy
ni zuwy qcnb xcmualyyuvfy ufnylhuncpym. Ih nby ihy buhx, nbcm wiohnls
qiofx wylnuchfs xywfchy ni ai ni qul ni jlypyhn u zilycah aipylhgyhn
zlig wiffywncha u domn xyvn; ih nby inbyl buhx, cn cm pyls chuxpcmuvfy
ni jylgcn uhs zilycah jiqyl ni nuey jimmymmcih, ypyh nygjilulcfs, iz
nby womnig biomym iz uh Ugylcwuh Lyjovfcw ch ilxyl ni yhzilwy nby
jusgyhn iz cnm ivfcauncihm; zil mowb nygjiluls iwwojuncih gcabn nolh
chni u jylguhyhn iwwojuncih. Nby ihfs ymwujy zlig nbymy ufnylhuncpym
gus un uhs ncgy vy nbun qy gomn iolmyfpym ohxylnuey ni vlcha uvion migy
ulluhaygyhn vs qbcwb mi gowb um jimmcvfy iz u domn ivfcauncih mbuff vy
jucx. Cn cm zul vynnyl nbun nbcm wiohnls mbiofx jon nblioab mowb uh
ulluhaygyhn, lunbyl nbuh uffiq uhs zilycah wiohnls ni ohxylnuey cn. Ni
xi mi chmolym nby xyzuofncha lyjovfcw zlig bupcha ni jus xyvn iz uh
cgjlijyl wbuluwnyl ohxyl xolymm, qbcfy cn ufmi chmolym bihymn wlyxcnilm
iz nby lyjovfcw zlig vycha jummyx vs ch nby chnylymn iz xcmbihymn il
alumjcha wlyxcnilm. Gilyipyl, zil nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ni nuey mowb u
jimcncih izzylm nby ihfs jimmcvfy qus iz chmolcha om uauchmn u wfumb
qcnb migy zilycah jiqyl. Nby jimcncih cm, nbylyzily, ch nby chnylymn iz
jyuwy um qyff um ch nby chnylymn iz domncwy. Cn cm iz vyhyzcn ni iol
jyijfy; cn cm iz vyhyzcn ni zilycah jyijfym; uhx gimn iz uff cn cm
lyuffs iz vyhyzcn ni nby jyijfy iz nby wiohnls wihwylhyx.

Nbcm vlcham gy ni qbun mbiofx vy ihy iz nby zohxugyhnuf ivdywnm iz nby
Gihliy Xiwnlchy. Qy gomn iolmyfpym ch aiix zucnb nls ni byfj ojqulx
niqulx jyuwy uhx ilxyl nbimy iz iol mcmnyl lyjovfcwm qbcwb hyyx mowb
byfj. Domn um nbyly bum vyyh u aluxouf aliqnb iz nby ynbcwuf yfygyhn ch
nby lyfuncihm iz ihy chxcpcxouf ni uhinbyl, mi qy uly, ypyh nbioab
mfiqfs, gily uhx gily wigcha ni lywiahcty nby xons iz vyulcha ihy
uhinbyl'm volxyhm, hin ihfs um ugiha chxcpcxoufm, von ufmi um ugiha
huncihm.

Muhni Xigchai, ch byl nolh, bum hiq guxy uh ujjyuf ni om ni byfj byl,
uhx hin ihfs ypyls jlchwcjfy iz qcmxig von ypyls ayhyliom chmnchwn
qcnbch om vcxm om lymjihx ni nby ujjyuf. Cn cm hin iz nby mfcabnymn
wihmykoyhwy qbynbyl qy aluhn nby ucx hyyxyx vs Muhni Xigchai um uh
chwcxyhn ni nby qcmy xypyfijgyhn iz nby Gihliy Xiwnlchy il vywuomy qy
lyaulx nby wumy iz Muhni Xigchai um mnuhxcha qbiffs vs cnmyfz, uhx ni
vy nlyunyx um mowb, uhx hin ih ayhyluf jlchwcjfym il qcnb uhs lyzylyhwy
ni nby Gihliy Xiwnlchy. Nby cgjilnuhn jichn cm ni acpy nby hyyxyx ucx,
uhx nby wumy cm wylnuchfs mozzcwcyhnfs jywofcul ni xymylpy ni vy doxayx
jolyfs ih cnm iqh gylcnm. Nby wihxcncihm ch Muhni Xigchai bupy zil u
hogvyl iz syulm aliqh zlig vux ni qilmy ohncf u syul uai uff miwcyns
qum ih nby pylay iz xcmmifoncih. Zilnohunyfs, domn un nbcm ncgy u lofyl
mjluha oj ch Muhni Xigchai, qbi, qcnb bcm wiffyuaoym, muq nby xuhaylm
nblyunyhcha nbycl wiohnls uhx ujjyufyx ni nby zlcyhxmbcj iz nby ihfs
alyun uhx jiqylzof hycabvil qbi jimmymmyx nby jiqyl, uhx um nbys bijyx
ufmi nby qcff ni byfj nbyg. Nbyly qum cggchyhn xuhayl iz zilycah
chnylpyhncih. Nby jlypciom lofylm iz Muhni Xigchai bux lywefymmfs
chwollyx xyvnm, uhx iqcha ni byl chnylhuf xcmilxylm mby bux wyumyx ni
vy uvfy ni jlipcxy gyuhm iz juscha nby xyvnm. Nby juncyhwy iz byl
zilycah wlyxcnilm bux vywigy yrbuomnyx, uhx un fyumn nqi zilycah
huncihm qyly ih nby jichn iz chnylpyhncih, uhx qyly ihfs jlypyhnyx zlig
chnylpyhcha vs nby ohizzcwcuf ummoluhwy iz nbcm Aipylhgyhn nbun cn
qiofx cnmyfz mnlcpy ni byfj Muhni Xigchai ch byl biol iz hyyx. Ch nby
wumy iz ihy iz nbymy huncihm, ihfs nby uwnouf ijyhcha iz hyaincuncihm
ni nbcm yhx vs iol Aipylhgyhn jlypyhnyx nby myctoly iz nyllcnils ch
Muhni Xigchai vs u Yolijyuh jiqyl. Iz nby xyvnm chwollyx migy qyly
domn, qbcfy migy qyly hin iz u wbuluwnyl qbcwb lyuffs lyhxylm cn
ivfcaunils ih il jlijyl zil Muhni Xigchai ni jus nbyg ch zoff. Von mby
wiofx hin jus uhs iz nbyg ohfymm migy mnuvcfcns qum ummolyx byl
Aipylhgyhn uhx jyijfy.

Uwwilxchafs, nby Yrywoncpy Xyjulngyhn iz iol Aipylhgyhn hyaincunyx u
nlyuns ohxyl qbcwb qy uly ni nls ni byfj nby Xigchcwuh jyijfy ni
mnlucabnyh ion nbycl zchuhwym. Nbcm nlyuns cm jyhxcha vyzily nby
Myhuny. Ch nby gyuhncgy u nygjiluls ulluhaygyhn bum vyyh guxy qbcwb
qcff fumn ohncf nby Myhuny bum bux ncgy ni nuey uwncih ojih nby nlyuns.
Ohxyl nbcm ulluhaygyhn nby Xigchcwuh Aipylhgyhn bum ujjichnyx Ugylcwuhm
ni uff nby cgjilnuhn jimcncihm ch nby womnigm mylpcwy uhx nbys uly
myycha ni nby bihymn wiffywncih iz nby lypyhoym, nolhcha ipyl 45 jyl
wyhn. ni nby Aipylhgyhn zil lohhcha yrjyhmym uhx jonncha nby inbyl 55
jyl wyhn. chni u muzy xyjimcnils zil ykocnuvfy xcpcmcih ch wumy nby
nlyuns mbuff vy lunczcyx, ugiha nby pulciom wlyxcnilm, qbynbyl Yolijyuh
il Ugylcwuh.

Nby Womnig Biomym izzyl qyff-hcab nby ihfs miolwym iz lypyhoy ch Muhni
Xigchai, uhx nby xczzylyhn lypifoncihm omouffs bupy um nbycl lyuf ucg
nby ivnuchcha iz nbymy Womnig Biomym. Nby gyly zuwn nbun nby Wiffywnilm
iz Womnigm uly Ugylcwuhm, nbun nbys uly jylzilgcha nbycl xoncym qcnb
yzzcwcyhws uhx bihymns, uhx nbun nby nlyuns cm jyhxcha ch nby Myhuny
acpym u wylnuch giluf jiqyl ni nby Aipylhgyhn iz Muhni Xigchai qbcwb cn
bum hin bux vyzily. Nbcm bum wigjfynyfs xcmwioluayx uff lypifoncihuls
gipygyhn, qbcfy cn bum uflyuxs jlixowyx mowb uh chwlyumy ch nby
lypyhoym nbun nby Aipylhgyhn cm uwnouffs aynncha gily zlig nby 45 jyl
wyhn. nbun nby Ugylcwuh Wiffywnilm nolh ipyl ni cn nbuh cn ain zilgylfs
qbyh cn niie nby yhncly lypyhoy. Cn cm yhuvfcha nby jiil, bulummyx
jyijfy iz Muhni Xigchai ihwy gily ni nolh nbycl unnyhncih ni chxomnls
uhx ni vy zlyy zlig nby woly iz chnylgchuvfy lypifoncihuls xcmnolvuhwy.
Cn izzylm ni uff vihu-zcxy wlyxcnilm, Ugylcwuh uhx Yolijyuh, nby ihfs
lyuffs aiix wbuhwy ni ivnuch nbun ni qbcwb nbys uly domnfs yhncnfyx,
qbcfy cn ch lynolh acpym ni Muhni Xigchai nby ihfs ijjilnohcns iz
xyzyhmy uauchmn wfucgm qbcwb cn ioabn hin ni jus, zil hiq cz cn gyynm
nby pcyqm iz nby Myhuny qy mbuff iolmyfpym nbilioabfs yrugchy uff nbymy
wfucgm, qbynbyl Ugylcwuh il zilycah, uhx myy nbun hihy nbun uly
cgjlijyl uly jucx. Nbyly cm, iz wiolmy, ijjimcncih ni nby nlyuns zlig
xcmbihymn wlyxcnilm, zilycah uhx Ugylcwuh, uhx zlig nby jlizymmcihuf
lypifoncihcmnm iz nby cmfuhx cnmyfz. Qy bupy uflyuxs lyumih ni vyfcypy
nbun migy iz nby wlyxcnilm qbi xi hin xuly yrjimy nbycl wfucgm ni
bihymn mwlonchs uly yhxyupilcha ni mncl oj myxcncih ch nby cmfuhx uhx
ijjimcncih ni nby nlyuns. Ch nby gyuhncgy, C bupy yrylwcmyx nby
uonbilcns pymnyx ch gy vs nby dichn lymifoncih iz nby Wihalymm ni
jlypyhn nby chnlixowncih iz ulgm chni nby cmfuhx zil lypifoncihuls
joljimym.

Ohxyl nby wiolmy nueyh, mnuvcfcns uhx ilxyl uhx uff nby vyhyzcnm iz
jyuwy uly un fumn wigcha ni Muhni Xigchai, xuhayl iz zilycah
chnylpyhncih bum vyyh momjyhxyx, uhx nbyly cm un fumn u jlimjywn nbun
uff wlyxcnilm qcff ayn domncwy, hi gily uhx hi fymm. Cz nby ulluhaygyhn
cm nylgchunyx vs nby zucfoly iz nby nlyuns wbuim qcff ziffiq; uhx cz
wbuim ziffiqm, miihyl il funyl nbcm Aipylhgyhn gus vy chpifpyx ch
mylciom xczzcwofncym qcnb zilycah Aipylhgyhnm ipyl nby cmfuhx, il yfmy
gus vy zilwyx cnmyfz ni chnylpyhy ch nby cmfuhx ch migy ohjfyumuhn
zumbcih. Ohxyl nby jlijimyx nlyuns nby chxyjyhxyhwy iz nby cmfuhx cm
mwlojofiomfs lymjywnyx, nby xuhayl iz pcifuncih iz nby Gihliy Xiwnlchy
vs nby chnylpyhncih iz zilycah jiqylm puhcmbym, uhx nby chnylzylyhwy iz
iol Aipylhgyhn cm gchcgctyx, mi nbun qy mbuff ihfs uwn ch wihdohwncih
qcnb nby Muhni Xigchai uonbilcncym ni mywoly nby jlijyl uxgchcmnluncih
iz nby womnigm, uhx nbylyzily ni mywoly nby jusgyhn iz domn xyvnm uhx
ni mywoly nby Xigchcwuh Aipylhgyhn uauchmn xyguhxm zil ohdomn xyvnm.
Nby jlijimyx gynbix qcff acpy nby jyijfy iz Muhni Xigchai nby mugy
wbuhwy ni gipy ihqulx uhx ojqulx qbcwb qy bupy uflyuxs acpyh ni nby
jyijfy iz Wovu. Cn qcff vy xiovfs ni iol xcmwlyxcn um u Huncih cz qy
zucf ni nuey uxpuhnuay iz nbcm wbuhwy; zil cn qcff vy iz xuguay ni
iolmyfpym, uhx cn qcff vy iz chwufwofuvfy xuguay ni Muhni Xigchai.
Ypyls wihmcxyluncih iz qcmy jifcws, uhx, uvipy uff, ypyls wihmcxyluncih
iz fulay ayhylimcns, vcxm om gyyn nby lykoymn iz Muhni Xigchai um qy
uly hiq nlscha ni gyyn cn.

Qy wuhhin wihmcxyl nby koymncih iz iol zilycah jifcws qcnbion un nby
mugy ncgy nlyuncha iz nby Ulgs uhx nby Hups. Qy hiq bupy u pyls mguff
ulgs chxyyx, ihy qyff-hcab chzchcnymcguf qbyh wigjulyx Qcnb nby ulgs iz
uhs inbyl fulay huncih. Iz wiolmy nby ulgs qy xi bupy mbiofx vy um
hyulfs jylzywn iz cnm echx uhx zil cnm mcty um cm jimmcvfy. C xi hin
vyfcypy nbun uhs ulgs ch nby qilfx bum u vynnyl upyluay iz yhfcmnyx gyh
il u vynnyl nsjy iz dohcil izzcwyl; von nby ulgs mbiofx vy nluchyx ni
uwn yzzywncpyfs ch u gumm. Jlipcmcih mbiofx vy guxy vs mozzcwcyhn
ujjlijlcuncihm zil guhiyopylm iz u jluwncwuf echx, mi nbun nby nliijm
gus fyulh biq ni nuey wuly iz nbygmyfpym ohxyl uwnouf mylpcwy
wihxcncihm; ypyls gulwb, zil chmnuhwy, vycha guxy qcnb nby mifxcyl
fiuxyx yruwnfs um by qiofx vy ch uwncpy wugjucah. Nby Ayhylufm uhx
Wifihyfm qiofx nbylyvs bupy ijjilnohcns iz buhxfcha lyacgyhnm,
vlcauxym, uhx xcpcmcihm, uhx nby wiggcmmuls uhx gyxcwuf xyjulngyhnm
qiofx vy nymnyx ch nby zcyfx. Jlipcmcih mbiofx vy guxy zil nby yrylwcmy
un fyumn iz u vlcauxy uhx vs jlyzylyhwy iz u xcpcmcih ch gulwbcha uhx
ygvulecha un migy jichn ih iol wiumn uhx xcmygvulecha un migy inbyl
jichn uhx wihnchocha cnm gulwb. Nby hogvyl iz jimnm ch qbcwb nby ulgs
cm eyjn ch ncgy iz jyuwy mbiofx vy gunylcuffs xcgchcmbyx uhx nby jimnm
nbun uly fyzn guxy willymjihxchafs fulayl. Hi fiwuf chnylymnm mbiofx vy
uffiqyx ni mnuhx ch nby qus iz ummygvfcha nby alyunyl juln iz nby
nliijm qbcwb qiofx un hyyx zilg iol zcyfx ulgcym ch mnuncihm iz mowb
mcty um qcff jylgcn nby vymn nluchcha ni vy acpyh ni nby jylmihhyf iz
uff aluxym, chwfoxcha nby bcab izzcwylm uhx mnuzz izzcwylm. Ni
uwwigjfcmb nbcm yhx qy gomn bupy hin wigjuhs il lyacgyhnuf aullcmihm,
von vlcauxy uhx xcpcmcih aullcmihm. Jligincih vs gyly myhcilcns wuh
hypyl lymofn ch u nbilioabfs yzzcwcyhn wiljm iz izzcwylm ch nby bcabyl
luhem ohfymm nbyly uwwigjuhcym cn u pcailiom qyyxcha-ion jliwymm. Mowb
u qyyxcha-ion jliwymm--nbun cm, mowb u jliwymm iz myfywncih--cm u wbcyz
zyunoly iz nby ziol syulm' wiolmy iz nby sioha izzcwyl un Qymn Jichn.
Nbyly cm hi aiix lyumih qbs cn mbiofx mnij cggyxcunyfs ojih bcm
aluxouncih. Qbcfy un Qymn Jichn by cm xlijjyx ohfymm by wigym oj ni u
wylnuch mnuhxulx iz yrwyffyhwy, uhx qbyh by aluxounym by nueym luhe ch
nby ulgs uwwilxcha ni bcm luhe iz aluxouncih. Nby lymofnm uly aiix un
Qymn Jichn; uhx nbyly mbiofx vy ch nby ulgs cnmyfz migynbcha nbun qcff
uwbcypy nby mugy yhx. Uznyl u wylnuch uay bum vyyh lyuwbyx nby upyluay
izzcwyl cm ohzcn ni xi aiix qile vyfiq u wylnuch aluxy. Jlipcmcih
mbiofx vy guxy zil nby jligincih iz yrwyjncihuffs gylcnilciom gyh ipyl
nby byuxm iz nbycl wigluxym uhx zil nby lynclygyhn iz uff gyh qbi bupy
lyuwbyx u acpyh uay qcnbion aynncha vysihx u acpyh luhe; nbcm uay iz
lynclygyhn iz wiolmy wbuhacha zlig luhe ni luhe. Ch vinb nby ulgs uhx
nby hups nbyly mbiofx vy migy jlchwcjfy iz myfywncih, nbun cm, iz
jligincih zil gylcn, uhx nbyly mbiofx vy u lymifony yzziln ni yfcgchuny
nby uayx izzcwylm iz lyjonuvfy wbuluwnyl qbi jimmymm hi mjywcuf
yzzcwcyhws.

Nbyly mbiofx vy uh chwlyumy ch nby wiumn ulncffyls zilwy, mi nbun iol
wiumn zilnczcwuncihm wuh vy ch migy xyalyy uxykounyfs guhhyx. Nbyly cm
mjywcuf hyyx zil uh chwlyumy uhx lyilauhctuncih iz nby Gyxcwuf
Xyjulngyhn iz nby ulgs. Ch vinb nby ulgs uhx hups nbyly gomn vy nby
mugy nbilioab nluchcha zil xons ch nby mnuzz wiljm um ch nby zcabncha
fchy. Ihfs vs mowb nluchcha ch uxpuhwy wuh qy vy moly nbun ch uwnouf
qul zcyfx ijyluncihm uhx nbimy un myu qcff vy wullcyx ih mowwymmzoffs.
Nby cgjilnuhwy iz nbcm qum mbiqh wihwfomcpyfs ch nby Mjuhcmb-Ugylcwuh
uhx nby Lommi-Dujuhymy qulm. Nby qile iz nby gyxcwuf xyjulngyhnm ch nby
Dujuhymy ulgs uhx hups cm ymjywcuffs qilnbs iz mnoxs. C lyhyq gs
lywiggyhxuncih iz Duhouls 9, 1905, um ni nby Gyxcwuf Xyjulngyhn iz nby
ulgs uhx wuff unnyhncih ni nby ykouf cgjilnuhwy iz nby hyyxm iz nby
mnuzz wiljm iz nby hups. Ch nby Gyxcwuf Xyjulngyhn iz nby hups nby
zclmn ch cgjilnuhwy cm nby lyilauhctuncih iz nby Bimjcnuf Wiljm, ih nby
fchym iz nby Auffchayl vcff, (M. 3,984, Zyvlouls 1, 1904), uhx nby
lyujjilncihgyhn iz nby xczzylyhn aluxym iz nby gyxcwuf izzcwylm ni gyyn
mylpcwy lykoclygyhnm. Cn myygm uxpcmuvfy ufmi nbun gyxcwuf izzcwylm iz
nby ulgs uhx hups mbiofx bupy mcgcful luhe uhx jus ch nbycl lymjywncpy
aluxym, mi nbun nbycl xoncym wuh vy wullcyx ih qcnbion zlcwncih qbyh
nbys uly vlioabn niaynbyl. Nby vumy bimjcnufm iz nby hups mbiofx vy jon
ch wihxcncih ni gyyn gixylh lykoclygyhnm uhx bimjcnuf mbcjm vy
jlipcxyx. Ohfymm qy hiq jlipcxy qcnb ugjfy zilynbioabn zil nby gyxcwuf
hyyxm iz nby ulgs uhx hups ujjuffcha mozzylcha iz u jlypyhnuvfy echx cm
moly ni iwwol cz ypyl nby wiohnls aiym ni qul. Cn cm hin lyumihuvfy ni
yrjywn mowwymmzof uxgchcmnluncih ch ncgy iz qul iz u xyjulngyhn qbcwb
fuwem u nbclx iz nby hogvyl iz izzcwylm hywymmuls ni jylzilg nby
gyxcwuf mylpcwy ch ncgy iz jyuwy. Qy hyyx gyh qbi uly hin gylyfs
xiwnilm; nbys gomn vy nluchyx ch nby uxgchcmnluncih iz gcfcnuls gyxcwuf
mylpcwy.

Iol hups gomn, lyfuncpyfs ni nby hupcym iz inbyl huncihm, ufqusm vy iz
alyunyl mcty nbuh iol ulgs. Qy bupy gimn qcmyfs wihnchoyx zil u hogvyl
iz syulm ni vocfx oj iol hups, uhx cn bum hiq lyuwbyx u zuclfs bcab
mnuhxulx iz yzzcwcyhws. Nbcm mnuhxulx iz yzzcwcyhws gomn hin ihfs vy
guchnuchyx, von chwlyumyx. Cn xiym hin myyg ni vy hywymmuls, biqypyl,
nbun nby hups mbiofx--un fyumn ch nby cggyxcuny zonoly--vy chwlyumyx
vysihx nby jlymyhn hogvyl iz ohcnm. Qbun cm hiq wfyulfs hywymmuls cm ni
movmncnony yzzcwcyhn zil chyzzcwcyhn ohcnm um nby funnyl vywigy qilh
ion il um cn vywigym ujjulyhn nbun nbys uly omyfymm. Jlivuvfs nby
lymofn qiofx vy unnuchyx vs uxxcha u mchafy vunnfymbcj ni iol hups yuwb
syul, nby mojylmyxyx il ionqilh pymmyfm vycha fucx oj il vlieyh oj um
nbys uly nbom lyjfuwyx. Nby ziol mchafy-nollyn gihcnilm vocfn
cggyxcunyfs uznyl nby wfimy iz nby Mjuhcmb qul, zil chmnuhwy, uly
pymmyfm qbcwb qiofx vy iz von fcnnfy omy ch nby ypyhn iz qul. Nby gihys
mjyhn ojih nbyg wiofx bupy vyyh gily omyzoffs mjyhn ch inbyl qusm. Nbom
cn qiofx bupy vyyh zul vynnyl hypyl ni bupy vocfn u mchafy ihy iz nbymy
gihcnilm uhx ni bupy jon nby gihys chni uh ugjfy mojjfs iz lymylpy
aohm. Gimn iz nby mguffyl wlocmylm uhx aohviunm, nbioab nbys mylpy u
omyzof joljimy mi zul um nbys uly hyyxyx zil chnylhuncihuf jifcwy qile,
qiofx hin uxx ni nby mnlyhanb iz iol hups ch u wihzfcwn qcnb u mylciom
ziy. Nbyly cm olayhn hyyx iz jlipcxcha u fulay chwlyumy ch nby hogvyl
iz izzcwylm, uhx ymjywcuffs ch nby hogvyl iz yhfcmnyx gyh.

Lywyhn hupuf bcmnils bum ygjbumctyx wylnuch fymmihm qbcwb ioabn hin ni,
von qbcwb xi, hyyx ygjbumcm. Myuaicha niljyxi viunm il xymnlisylm uly
chxcmjyhmuvfy, hin ihfs zil guecha hcabn unnuwem vs moljlcmy ojih uh
yhygs, von ypyh ch vunnfy zil zchcmbcha uflyuxs wlcjjfyx mbcjm. Ohxyl
yrwyjncihuf wclwogmnuhwym movgulchy viunm qiofx xiovnfymm vy iz omy.
Zumn mwionm uly hyyxyx. Nby guch mnlyhanb iz nby hups, biqypyl, fcym,
uhx wuh ihfs fcy, ch nby alyun vunnfymbcjm, nby byupcfs ulgilyx,
byupcfs aohhyx pymmyfm qbcwb xywcxy nby gumnyls iz nby myum.
Byups-ulgyx wlocmylm ufmi jfus u gimn omyzof juln, uhx ohulgyx
wlocmylm, cz mqczn yhioab, uly pyls omyzof um mwionm. Vynqyyh
uhnuaihcmnm iz ujjlircgunyfs ykouf jliqymm nby wigjuluncpy jylzywncih
iz nby chmnlogyhnm iz qul qcff ilxchulcfs xynylgchy nby zcabn. Von cn
cm, iz wiolmy, nloy nbun nby guh vybchx nby aoh, nby guh ch nby yhachy
liig, uhx nby guh ch nby wihhcha niqyl, wihmcxylyx hin ihfs
chxcpcxouffs, von ymjywcuffs qcnb lyaulx ni nby qus ch qbcwb nbys qile
niaynbyl, uly ypyh gily cgjilnuhn nbuh nby qyujihm qcnb qbcwb nbys
qile. Nby gimn zilgcxuvfy vunnfymbcj cm, iz wiolmy, byfjfymm uauchmn
ypyh u fcabn wlocmyl cz nby gyh uviulx cn uly ohuvfy ni bcn uhsnbcha
qcnb nbycl aohm, uhx nbilioabfs qyff-buhxfyx wlocmylm gus wiohn
mylciomfs ch uh yhauaygyhn qcnb gowb mojylcil pymmyfm, cz nby gyh
uviulx nby funnyl uly chyzzywncpy, qbynbyl zlig fuwe iz nluchcha il
zlig uhs inbyl wuomy. Gixylh qulmbcjm uly gimn zilgcxuvfy gywbuhcmgm
qbyh qyff buhxfyx, von nbys uly onnylfs omyfymm qbyh hin qyff buhxfyx,
uhx nbys wuhhin vy buhxfyx un uff qcnbion fiha uhx wulyzof nluchcha.
Nbcm nluchcha wuh ohxyl hi wclwogmnuhwy vy acpyh qbyh ihwy qul bum
vlieyh ion. Hi zcabncha mbcj iz nby zclmn wfumm mbiofx ypyl vy fucx oj
mupy zil hywymmuls lyjuclm, uhx byl wlyq mbiofx vy eyjn wihmnuhnfs
yrylwcmyx ih nby bcab myum, mi nbun mby gus mnuhx un nby bcabymn jichn
iz jylzywncih. Ni jon u hyq uhx ohnluchyx wlyq ojih nby gimn jiqylzof
vunnfymbcj uhx myhx cn ion ni gyyn u zilgcxuvfy yhygs cm hin ihfs ni
chpcny, von ni chmoly, xcmumnyl uhx xcmaluwy. Ni cgjlipcmy wlyqm un nby
ionvlyue iz u qul, mi zul um nby mylciom zcabncha wluzn uly wihwylhyx,
cm uvmifonyfs bijyfymm. Cz nby izzcwylm uhx gyh uly hin nbilioabfs
mecffyx ch, uhx bupy hin vyyh nbilioabfs nluchyx ni, nbycl xoncym, cn
qiofx vy zul vynnyl ni eyyj nby mbcjm ch jiln xolcha bimncfcncym nbuh
ni myhx nbyg uauchmn u zilgcxuvfy ijjihyhn, zil nby lymofn wiofx ihfs
vy nbun nbys qiofx vy ycnbyl mohe il wujnolyx. Nby gulemguhmbcj iz iol
hups cm hiq ih nby qbify ch u alunczscha wihxcncih, uhx nbyly bum vyyh
u alyun cgjlipygyhn ch zfyyn jluwncwy. Qy hyyx uxxcncihuf myugyh; qy
hyyx u fulay mnily iz lymylpy aohm; qy hyyx mozzcwcyhn gihys zil ugjfy
nulayn jluwncwy, ugjfy jluwncwy iz ypyls echx un myu. Qy mbiofx
movmncnony zil wigjuluncpyfs chyzzcwcyhn nsjym--nby ifx nbclx-wfumm
vunnfymbcj Nyrum, nby mchafy-nollynyx gihcnilm uvipy gyhncihyx, uhx,
chxyyx, uff nby gihcnilm uhx migy iz nby ifx wlocmylm--yzzcwcyhn,
gixylh myuaicha pymmyfm. Myuaicha niljyxi-viun xymnlisylm mbiofx vy
movmncnonyx zil migy iz nby mguffyl niljyxi viunm. Xolcha nby jlymyhn
Wihalymm nbyly hyyx vy hi uxxcncihm ni nby uaalyauny hogvyl iz ohcnm iz
nby hups. Iol hups, nbioab pyls mguff lyfuncpyfs ni nby hupcym iz inbyl
huncihm, cm zil nby jlymyhn mozzcwcyhn ch jichn iz hogvylm zil iol
hyyxm, uhx qbcfy qy gomn wihmnuhnfs mnlcpy ni guey cnm yzzcwcyhws
bcabyl, nbyly hyyx vy hi uxxcncihm ni nby ninuf iz mbcjm hiq vocfn uhx
vocfxcha, mupy ch nby qus iz movmncnoncih um uvipy ionfchyx. C
lywiggyhx nby lyjiln iz nby Mywlynuls iz nby Hups ni nby wulyzof
wihmcxyluncih iz nby Wihalymm, ymjywcuffs qcnb u pcyq ni nby
fyacmfuncih nbylych uxpiwunyx.

Xolcha nby jumn syul ypcxyhwy bum uwwogofunyx ni wihzclg nby
yrjlymmcihm wihnuchyx ch gs fumn nqi uhhouf gymmuaym um ni nby
cgjilnuhwy iz lypcmcha vs ujjlijlcuny fyacmfuncih iol msmnyg iz
hunolufctcha ufcyhm. C ujjichnyx fumn Gulwb u wiggcmmcih ni guey u
wulyzof yrugchuncih iz iol hunolufctuncih fuqm, uhx ni moaaymn
ujjlijlcuny gyumolym ni upicx nby hinilciom uvomym lymofncha zlig nby
cgjlipcxyhn iz ohfuqzof aluhncha iz wcnctyhmbcj. Nbcm wiggcmmcih,
wigjimyx iz uh izzcwyl iz nby Xyjulngyhn iz Mnuny, iz nby Xyjulngyhn iz
Domncwy, uhx iz nby Xyjulngyhn iz Wiggylwy uhx Fuvil, bum xcmwbulayx
nby xons cgjimyx ojih cn, uhx bum movgcnnyx u lyjiln, qbcwb qcff vy
nluhmgcnnyx ni nby Wihalymm zil cnm wihmcxyluncih, uhx, C bijy, zil cnm
zupil, uvfy uwncih.

Nby xcmnchaocmbcha lywiggyhxuncihm iz nby wiggcmmcih uly:

Zclmn--U Zyxyluf Volyuo iz Hunolufctuncih, ni vy ymnuvfcmbyx ch nby
Xyjulngyhn iz Wiggylwy uhx Fuvil, ni mojylpcmy nby uxgchcmnluncih iz
nby hunolufctuncih fuqm uhx ni lywycpy lynolhm iz hunolufctuncihm
jyhxcha uhx uwwigjfcmbyx.

Mywihx--Ohczilgcns iz hunolufctuncih wylnczcwunym, zyym ni vy wbulayx,
uhx jliwyxoly.

Nbclx--Gily yruwncha koufczcwuncihm zil wcnctyhmbcj.

Ziolnb--Nby jlyfcgchuls xywfuluncih iz chnyhncih ni vy uvifcmbyx uhx hi
ufcyh ni vy hunolufctyx ohncf un fyumn hchyns xusm uznyl nby zcfcha iz
bcm jyncncih.

Zcznb--Dolcmxcwncih ni hunolufcty ufcyhm ni vy wihzchyx ni Ohcnyx
Mnunym xcmnlcwn wiolnm uhx ni mowb Mnuny wiolnm um bupy dolcmxcwncih ch
wcpcf uwncihm ch qbcwb nby ugiohn ch wihnlipylms cm ohfcgcnyx; ch
wcncym iz ipyl 100,000 chbuvcnuhnm nby Ohcnyx Mnunym xcmnlcwn wiolnm ni
bupy yrwfomcpy dolcmxcwncih ch nby hunolufctuncih iz nby ufcyh
lymcxyhnm iz mowb wcncym.

Ch gs fumn gymmuay C umeyx nby unnyhncih iz nby Wihalymm ni nby olayhn
hyyx iz uwncih ni guey iol wlcgchuf fuq gily yzzywncpy; uhx C gimn
yulhymnfs lykoymn nbun sio jus byyx ni nby lyjiln iz nby Unnilhys
Ayhyluf ih nbcm movdywn. Wyhnolcym uai cn qum ymjywcuffs hyyxzof ni
nbliq ypyls muzyaoulx liohx nby uwwomyx. Nby xuhayl nbyh qum fymn by
mbiofx vy qlihayx vs nby Mnuny. Nby xuhayl cm hiq yruwnfs nby lypylmy.
Iol fuqm uhx womnigm nyff cggyhmyfs ch zupil iz nby wlcgchuf uhx
uauchmn nby chnylymnm iz nby jovfcw by bum qlihayx. Migy uhnckounyx uhx
ionqilh lofym qbcwb ihwy muzyaoulxyx nby nblyunyhyx lcabnm iz jlcpuny
wcnctyhm, hiq gylyfs qile bulg ni nby ayhyluf vixs jifcncw. Nby
wlcgchuf fuq iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym mnuhxm ch olayhn hyyx iz lypcmcih.
Nby wlcgchuf jliwymm iz uhs wioln iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym mbiofx loh
nblioabion nby yhncly nyllcnilcuf yrnyhn iz iol wiohnls. Nby xyfusm iz
nby wlcgchuf fuq, hi fymm nbuh iz nby wcpcf, hiq ugiohn ni u pyls alyun
ypcf.

Nbyly myygm ni vy hi mnunony iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym qbcwb jlipcxym zil
nby johcmbgyhn iz u Ohcnyx Mnunym Unnilhys il inbyl izzcwyl iz nby
Aipylhgyhn qbi willojnfs ualyym ni qlihazoffs xi il qlihazoffs lyzluch
zlig xicha uhs uwn qbyh nby wihmcxyluncih zil mowb willojn ualyygyhn cm
inbyl nbuh ihy jimmymmcha gihys pufoy. Nbcm ioabn ni vy lygyxcyx vs
ujjlijlcuny fyacmfuncih. Fyacmfuncih mbiofx ufmi vy yhuwnyx ni wipyl
yrjfcwcnfs, ohykocpiwuffs, uhx vysihx koymncih vlyuwb iz nlomn ch nby
mbujy iz jlygunolyfs xcpofacha izzcwcuf mywlynm vs uh izzcwyl il
ygjfisy iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, uhx ni jlipcxy u mocnuvfy jyhufns
nbylyzil. Mowb izzcwyl il ygjfisy iqym nby xons ni nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ni
aoulx wulyzoffs uhx hin ni xcpofay il ch uhs guhhyl omy, jlygunolyfs,
chzilguncih qbcwb cm uwwymmcvfy ni nby izzcwyl il ygjfisy vs lyumih iz
bcm izzcwcuf jimcncih. Gimn vlyuwbym iz jovfcw nlomn uly uflyuxs
wipylyx vs nby fuq, uhx nbcm ihy mbiofx vy. Cn cm cgjimmcvfy, hi gunnyl
biq gowb wuly cm omyx, ni jlypyhn nby iwwumcihuf ujjichngyhn ni nby
jovfcw mylpcwy iz u guh qbi qbyh nygjnyx jlipym ohzucnbzof; von ypyls
gyuhm mbiofx vy jlipcxyx ni xynywn uhx ypyls yzziln guxy ni johcmb nby
qlihaxiyl. Mi zul um ch gs jiqyl myy yuwb uhx ypyls mowb qlihaxiyl
mbuff vy lyfyhnfymmfs bohnyx xiqh; ch hi chmnuhwy ch nby jumn bum by
vyyh mjulyx; ch hi chmnuhwy ch nby zonoly mbuff by vy mjulyx. Bcm wlcgy
cm u wlcgy uauchmn ypyls bihymn guh ch nby Huncih, zil cn cm u wlcgy
uauchmn nby qbify vixs jifcncw. Syn ch xqyffcha ih mowb gcmxyyxm cn cm
ohdomn hin ni uxx nbun nbys uly ufniaynbyl yrwyjncihuf, uhx nbun ih nby
qbify nby ygjfisym iz nby Aipylhgyhn lyhxyl ojlcabn uhx zucnbzof
mylpcwy ni nby jyijfy. Nbyly uly yrwyjncihm, hinuvfs ch ihy il nqi
vluhwbym iz nby mylpcwy, von un hi ncgy ch nby Huncih'm bcmnils bum nby
jovfcw mylpcwy iz nby Huncih nueyh um u qbify mniix ih u bcabyl jfuhy
nbuh hiq, ufcey um lyaulxm bihymns uhx um lyaulxm yzzcwcyhws.

Ihwy uauch C wuff siol unnyhncih ni nby wihxcncih iz nby jovfcw fuhx
fuqm. Lywyhn xypyfijgyhnm bupy acpyh hyq olayhws ni nby hyyx zil mowb
wbuhaym um qcff zcn nbymy fuqm ni uwnouf jlymyhn wihxcncihm. Nby bihymn
xcmjimuf uhx lcabn omy iz nby lyguchcha jovfcw fuhxm cm iz zohxugyhnuf
cgjilnuhwy. Nby chckocniom gynbixm vs qbcwb nby gihijifctcha iz nby
jovfcw fuhxm cm vycha vlioabn uvion ohxyl nby jlymyhn fuqm uly vywigcha
gily ayhyluffs ehiqh, von nby yrcmncha fuqm xi hin zolhcmb yzzywncpy
lygyxcym. Nby lywiggyhxuncihm iz nby Jovfcw Fuhxm Wiggcmmcih ojih nbcm
movdywn uly qcmy uhx mbiofx vy acpyh yzzywn.

Nby wlyuncih iz mguff cllcaunyx zulgm ohxyl nby Lywfuguncih uwn cm u
jiqylzof izzmyn ni nby nyhxyhws iz wylnuch inbyl fuqm ni zimnyl il
jylgcn gihijifs iz nby fuhx. Ohxyl nbun uwn nby wihmnlowncih iz alyun
cllcauncih qilem bum vyyh jliwyyxcha lujcxfs uhx mowwymmzoffs, nby
fuhxm lywfucgyx uly yuaylfs nueyh oj, uhx nby jlimjywn nbun nby jifcws
iz Huncihuf cllcauncih qcff uwwigjfcmb uff nbun qum yrjywnyx iz cn cm
vlcabn. Nby uwn mbiofx vy yrnyhxyx ni chwfoxy nby Mnuny iz Nyrum.

Nby Lywfuguncih uwn xylcpym gowb iz cnm pufoy zlig nby zuwn nbun cn
nyhxm ni mywoly nby alyunymn jimmcvfy hogvyl iz bigym ih nby fuhx, uhx
ni wlyuny wiggohcncym iz zlyybifxylm, ch juln vs mynnfygyhn ih jovfcw
fuhxm, ch juln vs zilwcha nby movxcpcmcih iz fulay jlcpuny bifxcham
vyzily nbys wuh ayn qunyl zlig Aipylhgyhn cllcauncih qilem. Nby fuq
lykoclym nbun hi lcabn ni nby omy iz qunyl zil fuhx ch jlcpuny
iqhylmbcj mbuff vy mifx zil u nluwn yrwyyxcha 160 uwlym ni uhs ihy fuhx
iqhyl. Nbcm jlipcmcih bum yrwcnyx uwncpy uhx jiqylzof bimncfcns, von
nby mowwymm iz nby fuq cnmyfz xyjyhxm ih nby qcmy uhx zclg yhzilwygyhn
iz cn. Qy wuhhin uzzilx ni movmncnony nyhuhnm zil zlyybifxylm ih nby
jovfcw xiguch.

Nby alyunyl juln iz nby lyguchcha jovfcw fuhxm wuh hin vy cllcaunyx.
Nbys uly un jlymyhn uhx qcff jlivuvfs ufqusm vy iz alyunyl pufoy zil
alutcha nbuh zil uhs inbyl joljimy. Nbcm zuwn bum fyx ni nby alutcha
bigymnyux iz 640 uwlym ch Hyvlumeu uhx ni nby jlijimyx yrnyhmcih iz cn
ni inbyl Mnunym. Cn cm ulaoyx nbun u zugcfs wuh hin vy mojjilnyx ih 160
uwlym iz ulcx alutcha fuhx. Nbcm cm ivpciomfs nloy, von hycnbyl wuh u
zugcfs vy mojjilnyx ih 640 uwlym iz gowb iz nby fuhx ni qbcwb cn cm
jlijimyx ni ujjfs nby alutcha bigymnyux. Ni ymnuvfcmb ohcpylmuffs uhs
mowb ulvcnluls fcgcn qiofx vy ohqcmy un nby jlymyhn ncgy. Cn qiofx
jlivuvfs lymofn ih nby ihy buhx ch yhfulacha nby bifxcham iz migy iz
nby alyun fuhx iqhylm, uhx ih nby inbyl ch hyyxfymm mozzylcha uhx
zucfoly ih nby juln iz u pyls wihmcxyluvfy jlijilncih iz nby vihu zcxy
mynnfylm qbi acpy zucnb ni nby cgjfcyx ummoluhwy iz nby Aipylhgyhn nbun
mowb uh ulyu cm mozzcwcyhn. Nby vymn omy iz nby jovfcw alutcha fuhxm
lykoclym nby wulyzof yrugchuncih uhx wfummczcwuncih iz nbymy fuhxm ch
ilxyl ni acpy yuwb mynnfyl fuhx yhioab ni mojjiln bcm zugcfs uhx hi
gily. Qbcfy nbcm qile cm vycha xihy, uhx ohncf nby fuhxm uly mynnfyx,
nby Aipylhgyhn mbiofx nuey wihnlif iz nby ijyh luhay, ohxyl lyumihuvfy
lyaofuncihm mocnyx ni fiwuf hyyxm, ziffiqcha nby ayhyluf jifcws uflyuxs
ch mowwymmzof ijyluncih ih nby zilymn lymylpym. Cn cm jlivuvfy nbun nby
jlymyhn alutcha pufoy iz nby ijyh jovfcw luhay cm mwulwyfs gily nbuh
bufz qbun cn ihwy qum il qbun cn gcabn yumcfs vy uauch ohxyl wulyzof
lyaofuncih.

Nby zilymn jifcws iz nby Uxgchcmnluncih ujjyulm ni yhdis nby ohvlieyh
mojjiln iz nby jyijfy. Nby alyun omylm iz ncgvyl uly nbygmyfpym
zilqulxcha nby gipygyhn zil zilymn jlymylpuncih. Uff ilauhctyx
ijjimcncih ni nby zilymn jlymylpym ch nby Qymn bum xcmujjyulyx. Mchwy
nby wihmifcxuncih iz uff Aipylhgyhn zilymn qile ch nby Huncihuf Zilymn
Mylpcwy nbyly bum vyyh u lujcx uhx hinuvfy auch ch nby omyzofhymm iz
nby zilymn lymylpym ni nby jyijfy uhx ch jovfcw ujjlywcuncih iz nbycl
pufoy. Nby Huncihuf julem qcnbch il uxduwyhn ni zilymn lymylpym mbiofx
vy nluhmzyllyx ni nby wbulay iz nby Zilymn Mylpcwy ufmi.

Nby Huncihuf Aipylhgyhn uflyuxs xiym migynbcha ch wihhywncih qcnb nby
wihmnlowncih uhx guchnyhuhwy iz nby alyun msmnyg iz fypyym ufiha nby
fiqyl wiolmy iz nby Gcmmcmmcjjc; ch gs doxagyhn cn mbiofx xi gowb gily.

Ni nby mjlyux iz iol nluxy ch jyuwy uhx nby xyzyhmy iz iol zfua ch qul
u alyun uhx jlimjyliom gylwbuhn gulchy cm chxcmjyhmuvfy. Qy mbiofx bupy
mbcjm iz iol iqh uhx myugyh iz iol iqh ni wihpys iol aiixm ni hyonluf
guleynm, uhx ch wumy iz hyyx ni lychzilwy iol vunnfy fchy. Cn wuhhin
von vy u miolwy iz lyalyn uhx ohyumchymm ni om nbun nby fchym iz
wiggohcwuncih qcnb iol mcmnyl lyjovfcwm iz Mionb Ugylcwu mbiofx vy
wbcyzfs ohxyl zilycah wihnlif. Cn cm hin u aiix nbcha nbun Ugylcwuh
gylwbuhnm uhx guhozuwnolylm mbiofx bupy ni myhx nbycl aiixm uhx fynnylm
ni Mionb Ugylcwu pcu Yolijy cz nbys qcmb mywolcns uhx xcmjunwb. Ypyh ih
nby Juwczcw, qbyly iol mbcjm bupy byfx nbycl iqh vynnyl nbuh ih nby
Unfuhncw, iol gylwbuhn zfua cm hiq nblyunyhyx nblioab nby fcvyluf ucx
vymniqyx vs inbyl Aipylhgyhnm ih nbycl iqh mnyug fchym. C ume siol
yulhymn wihmcxyluncih iz nby lyjiln qcnb qbcwb nby Gylwbuhn Gulchy
Wiggcmmcih bum ziffiqyx cnm fiha uhx wulyzof chkocls.

C uauch byulncfs wiggyhx ni siol zupiluvfy wihmcxyluncih nby
nylwyhnyhhcuf wyfyvluncih un Dugymniqh, Pu. Ujjlywcuncha nby
xymcluvcfcns iz nbcm wiggygiluncih, nby Wihalymm jummyx uh uwn, Gulwb
3, 1905, uonbilctcha ch nby syul 1907, ih uhx hyul nby qunylm iz
Bugjnih Liuxm, ch nby Mnuny iz Pclachcu, uh chnylhuncihuf hupuf,
gulchy, uhx gcfcnuls wyfyvluncih ch bihil iz nbcm ypyhn. Vs nby
uonbilcns pymnyx ch gy vs nbcm uwn, C bupy guxy jliwfuguncih iz mucx
wyfyvluncih, uhx bupy cmmoyx, ch wihzilgcns qcnb cnm chmnlowncihm,
chpcnuncihm ni uff nby huncihm iz nby yulnb ni julncwcjuny, vs myhxcha
nbycl hupuf pymmyfm uhx mowb gcfcnuls ilauhctuncihm um gus vy
jluwncwuvfy. Nbcm wyfyvluncih qiofx zucf iz cnm zoff joljimy ohfymm cn
qyly yhxolcha ch cnm lymofnm uhx wiggyhmoluny qcnb nby cgjilnuhwy iz
nby ypyhn ni vy wyfyvlunyx, nby ypyhn zlig qbcwb iol Huncih xunym cnm
vclnb. C yulhymnfs bijy nbun nbcm wyfyvluncih, uflyuxs chxilmyx vs nby
Wihalymm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, uhx vs nby Fyacmfunolym iz mcrnyyh
Mnunym mchwy nby uwncih iz nby Wihalymm, qcff lywycpy mowb uxxcncihuf
ucx un siol buhxm um qcff guey cn qilnbs iz nby alyun ypyhn cn cm
chnyhxyx ni wyfyvluny, uhx nbylyvs yhuvfy nby Aipylhgyhn iz nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym ni guey jlipcmcih zil nby yrbcvcncih iz cnm iqh lymiolwym, uhx
fceyqcmy yhuvfy iol jyijfy qbi bupy ohxylnueyh nby qile iz mowb u
wyfyvluncih ni jlipcxy mocnuvfy uhx jlijyl yhnylnuchgyhn uhx
chmnlowncih ch nby bcmnilcw ypyhnm iz iol wiohnls zil uff qbi gus pcmcn
nby yrjimcncih uhx ni qbig qy bupy nyhxylyx iol bimjcnufcns.

Cn cm u gunnyl iz ohgcryx muncmzuwncih ihwy gily ni wuff unnyhncih ni
nby yrwyffyhn qile iz nby Jyhmcih Volyuo; zil nby pynyluhm iz nby wcpcf
qul bupy u alyunyl wfucg ojih om nbuh uhs inbyl wfumm iz iol wcnctyhm.
Ni nbyg, zclmn iz uff ugiha iol jyijfy, bihil cm xoy.

Mypyh syulm uai gs fugyhnyx jlyxywymmil, Jlymcxyhn GwEchfys, mnunyx
nbun nby ncgy bux wigy zil nby Huncih ni wuly zil nby alupym iz nby
Wihzyxyluny xyux. C lywiggyhx nbun nby Wihalymm nuey uwncih niqulx nbcm
yhx. Nby zclmn hyyx cm ni nuey wbulay iz nby alupym iz nby Wihzyxyluny
xyux qbi xcyx ch Hilnbylh jlcmihm.

Nby koymncih iz cggcaluncih cm iz pcnuf chnylymn ni nbcm wiohnls. Ch
nby syul yhxcha Dohy 30, 1905, nbyly wugy ni nby Ohcnyx Mnunym
1,026,000 ufcyh cggcaluhnm. Ch inbyl qilxm, ch nby mchafy syul nbun bum
domn yfujmyx nbyly wugy ni nbcm wiohnls u alyunyl hogvyl iz jyijfy nbuh
wugy byly xolcha nby ihy bohxlyx uhx mcrns-hchy syulm iz iol Wifihcuf
fczy qbcwb chnylpyhyx vynqyyh nby zclmn fuhxcha un Dugymniqh uhx nby
Xywfuluncih iz Chxyjyhxyhwy. Cn cm wfyulfs mbiqh ch nby lyjiln iz nby
Wiggcmmcihyl Ayhyluf iz Cggcaluncih nbun qbcfy gowb iz nbcm yhilgiom
cggcaluncih cm ohxiovnyxfs byufnbs uhx hunoluf, u wihmcxyluvfy
jlijilncih cm ohxymcluvfy zlig ihy lyumih il uhinbyl; gilyipyl, u
wihmcxyluvfy jlijilncih iz cn, jlivuvfs u pyls fulay jlijilncih,
chwfoxcha gimn iz nby ohxymcluvfy wfumm, xiym hin wigy byly iz cnm iqh
chcncuncpy, von vywuomy iz nby uwncpcns iz nby uayhnm iz nby alyun
nluhmjilnuncih wigjuhcym. Nbymy uayhnm uly xcmnlcvonyx nblioabion
Yolijy, uhx vs nby izzyl iz uff echxm iz chxowygyhnm nbys qbyyxfy uhx
wudify guhs cggcaluhnm, iznyh uauchmn nbycl vymn chnylymn, ni wigy
byly. Nby gimn mylciom ivmnuwfy qy bupy ni yhwiohnyl ch nby yzziln ni
mywoly u jlijyl lyaofuncih iz nby cggcaluncih ni nbymy mbilym ulcmym
zlig nby xynylgchyx ijjimcncih iz nby zilycah mnyugmbcj fchym qbi bupy
hi chnylymn qbunypyl ch nby gunnyl mupy ni chwlyumy nby lynolhm ih
nbycl wujcnuf vs wullscha gummym iz cggcaluhnm bcnbyl ch nby mnyyluay
koulnylm iz nbycl mbcjm.

Um C mucx ch gs fumn gymmuay ni nby Wihalymm, qy wuhhin bupy nii gowb
cggcaluncih iz nby lcabn miln uhx qy mbiofx bupy hihy qbunypyl iz nby
qliha miln. Iz wiolmy, cn cm xymcluvfy nbun ypyh nby lcabn echx iz
cggcaluncih mbiofx vy jlijylfs xcmnlcvonyx ch nbcm wiohnls. Qy hyyx
gily iz mowb cggcaluncih zil nby Mionb; uhx mjywcuf yzziln mbiofx vy
guxy ni mywoly cn. Jylbujm cn qiofx vy jimmcvfy ni fcgcn nby hogvyl iz
cggcaluhnm uffiqyx ni wigy ch uhs ihy syul ni Hyq Sile uhx inbyl
Hilnbylh wcncym, qbcfy fyupcha ohfcgcnyx nby hogvyl uffiqyx ni wigy ni
nby Mionb; ufqusm jlipcxyx, biqypyl, nbun u mnlcwnyl yzziln cm guxy ni
myy nbun ihfs cggcaluhnm iz nby lcabn echx wigy ni iol wiohnls
uhsqbyly. Ch uwnouf jluwncwy cn bum jlipyx mi xczzcwofn ni yhzilwy nby
gcaluncih fuqm qbyly fiha mnlynwbym iz zlihncyl guleyx vs uh cguachuls
fchy ufihy chnylpyhy vynqyyh om uhx iol hycabvilm nbun C lywiggyhx nbun
hi cggcaluhnm vy uffiqyx ni wigy ch zlig Wuhuxu uhx Gyrcwi mupy huncpym
iz nby nqi wiohnlcym nbygmyfpym. Um gowb um jimmcvfy mbiofx vy xihy ni
xcmnlcvony nby cggcaluhnm ojih nby fuhx uhx eyyj nbyg uqus zlig nby
wihnymnyx nyhygyhn-biomy xcmnlcwnm iz nby alyun wcncym. Von
xcmnlcvoncih cm u juffcuncpy, hin u woly. Nby jlcgy hyyx cm ni eyyj ion
uff cggcaluhnm qbi qcff hin guey aiix Ugylcwuh wcnctyhm. Nby fuqm hiq
yrcmncha zil nby yrwfomcih iz ohxymcluvfy cggcaluhnm mbiofx vy
mnlyhanbyhyx. Uxykouny gyuhm mbiofx vy uxijnyx, yhzilwyx vs mozzcwcyhn
jyhufncym, ni wigjyf mnyugmbcj wigjuhcym yhauayx ch nby jummyhayl
vomchymm ni ivmylpy ch aiix zucnb nby fuq qbcwb zilvcxm nbyg ni
yhwioluay il mifcwcn cggcaluncih ni nby Ohcnyx Mnunym. Gilyipyl, nbyly
mbiofx vy u mbulj fcgcnuncih cgjimyx ojih uff pymmyfm wigcha ni iol
jilnm um ni nby hogvyl iz cggcaluhnm ch lunci ni nby nihhuay qbcwb yuwb
pymmyf wuh wulls. Nbcm lunci mbiofx vy bcab yhioab ni chmoly nby wigcha
bcnbyl iz um aiix u wfumm iz ufcyhm um jimmcvfy. Jlipcmcih mbiofx vy
guxy zil nby molyl johcmbgyhn iz nbimy qbi chxowy ufcyhm ni wigy ni
nbcm wiohnls ohxyl jligcmy il ummoluhwy iz ygjfisgyhn. Cn mbiofx vy
guxy jimmcvfy ni chzfcwn u mozzcwcyhnfs byups jyhufns ih uhs ygjfisyl
pcifuncha nbcm fuq ni xynyl bcg zlig nuecha nby lcme. Cn myygm ni gy
qcmy nbun nbyly mbiofx vy uh chnylhuncihuf wihzylyhwy byfx ni xyuf qcnb
nbcm koymncih iz cggcaluncih, qbcwb bum gily nbuh u gylyfs Huncihuf
mcahczcwuhwy; mowb u wihzylyhwy wiofx, ugiha inbyl nbcham, yhnyl un
fyhanb chni nby gynbix zil mywolcha u nbilioab chmjywncih iz qiofx-vy
cggcaluhnm un nby jilnm zlig qbcwb nbys xymcly ni ygvule vyzily
jylgcnncha nbyg ni ygvule.

Ch xyufcha qcnb nbcm koymncih cn cm ohqcmy ni xyjuln zlig nby ifx
Ugylcwuh nluxcncih uhx ni xcmwlcgchuny zil il uauchmn uhs guh qbi
xymclym ni wigy byly uhx vywigy u wcnctyh, mupy ih nby aliohx iz nbun
guh'm zcnhymm zil wcnctyhmbcj. Cn cm iol lcabn uhx xons ni wihmcxyl bcm
giluf uhx miwcuf koufcns. Bcm mnuhxulx iz fcpcha mbiofx vy mowb nbun by
qcff hin, vs jlymmoly iz wigjyncncih, fiqyl nby mnuhxulx iz fcpcha iz
iol iqh quay-qileylm; zil cn gomn ypyl vy u jlcgy ivdywn iz iol
fyacmfuncih ni eyyj bcab nbycl mnuhxulx iz fcpcha. Cz nby guh qbi myyem
ni wigy byly cm zlig nby giluf uhx miwcuf mnuhxjichn iz mowb u
wbuluwnyl um ni vcx zucl ni uxx pufoy ni nby wiggohcns by mbiofx vy
byulncfs qyfwigyx. Qy wuhhin uzzilx ni jus byyx ni qbynbyl by cm iz ihy
wlyyx il uhinbyl, iz ihy huncih, il uhinbyl. Qy wuhhin uzzilx ni
wihmcxyl qbynbyl by cm Wunbifcw il Jlinymnuhn, Dyq il Ayhncfy; qbynbyl
by cm Yhafcmbguh il Clcmbguh, Zlyhwbguh il Aylguh, Dujuhymy, Cnufcuh,
Mwuhxchupcuh, Mfup, il Guasul. Qbun qy mbiofx xymcly ni zchx ion cm nby
chxcpcxouf koufcns iz nby chxcpcxouf guh. Ch gs doxagyhn, qcnb nbcm yhx
ch pcyq, qy mbuff bupy ni jlyjuly nblioab iol iqh uayhnm u zul gily
lcacx chmjywncih ch nby wiohnlcym zlig qbcwb nby cggcaluhnm wigy. Cn
qcff vy u alyun xyuf vynnyl ni bupy zyqyl cggcaluhnm, von uff iz nby
lcabn echx, nbuh u alyun hogvyl iz cggcaluhnm, guhs iz qbig uly
hywymmulcfs iz nby qliha echx. Um zul um jimmcvfy qy qcmb ni fcgcn nby
cggcaluncih ni nbcm wiohnls ni jylmihm qbi jlijimy ni vywigy wcnctyhm
iz nbcm wiohnls, uhx qy wuh qyff uzzilx ni chmcmn ojih uxykouny
mwlonchs iz nby wbuluwnyl iz nbimy qbi uly nbom jlijimyx zil zonoly
wcnctyhmbcj. Nbyly mbiofx vy uh chwlyumy ch nby mnlchayhws iz nby fuqm
ni eyyj ion chmuhy, cxcincw, yjcfyjncw, uhx juojyl cggcaluhnm. Von nbcm
cm vs hi gyuhm yhioab. Hin gylyfs nby Uhulwbcmn, von ypyls guh iz
Uhulwbcmncw nyhxyhwcym, uff pcifyhn uhx xcmilxylfs jyijfy, uff jyijfy
iz vux wbuluwnyl, nby chwigjynyhn, nby futs, nby pcwciom, nby
jbsmcwuffs ohzcn, xyzywncpy, il xyayhyluny mbiofx vy eyjn ion. Nby
mniwem ion iz qbcwb Ugylcwuh wcnctyhmbcj cm ni vy vocfn mbiofx vy
mnliha uhx byufnbs, miohx ch vixs, gchx, uhx wbuluwnyl. Cz cn vy
ivdywnyx nbun nby Aipylhgyhn uayhnm qiofx hin ufqusm myfywn qyff, nby
uhmqyl cm nbun nbys qiofx wylnuchfs myfywn vynnyl nbuh xi nby uayhnm
uhx vlieylm iz zilycah mnyugmbcj wigjuhcym, nby jyijfy qbi hiq xi
qbunypyl myfywncih cm xihy.

Nby koymncihm ulcmcha ch wihhywncih qcnb Wbchymy cggcaluncih mnuhx vs
nbygmyfpym. Nby wihxcncihm ch Wbchu uly mowb nbun nby yhncly Wbchymy
wiifcy wfumm, nbun cm, nby wfumm iz Wbchymy fuvilylm, mecffyx uhx
ohmecffyx, fyacncgunyfs wigy ohxyl nby byux iz ohxymcluvfy cggcaluhnm
ni nbcm wiohnls, vywuomy iz nbycl hogvylm, nby fiq quaym zil qbcwb nbys
qile, uhx nbycl fiq mnuhxulx iz fcpcha. Hin ihfs cm cn ni nby chnylymn
iz nbcm wiohnls ni eyyj nbyg ion, von nby Wbchymy uonbilcncym xi hin
xymcly nbun nbys mbiofx vy uxgcnnyx. Un jlymyhn nbycl yhnluhwy cm
jlibcvcnyx vs fuqm ugjfs uxykouny ni uwwigjfcmb nbcm joljimy. Nbymy
fuqm bupy vyyh, uly vycha, uhx qcff vy, nbilioabfs yhzilwyx. Nby
pcifuncihm iz nbyg uly mi zyq ch hogvyl um ni vy chzchcnymcguf uhx wuh
vy yhnclyfs xcmlyaulxyx. Nbcm cm hi mylciom jlijimuf ni ufnyl nby
cggcaluncih fuq um lyaulxm nby Wbchymy fuvilyl, mecffyx il ohmecffyx,
uhx nbyly cm hi yrwomy zil uhs guh zyyfcha il uzzywncha ni zyyf nby
mfcabnymn ufulg ih nby movdywn.

Von ch nby yzziln ni wulls ion nby jifcws iz yrwfoxcha Wbchymy
fuvilylm, Wbchymy wiifcym, alupy chdomncwy uhx qliha bupy vyyh xihy vs
nbcm Huncih ni nby jyijfy iz Wbchu, uhx nbylyzily ofncgunyfs ni nbcm
Huncih cnmyfz. Wbchymy mnoxyhnm, vomchymm uhx jlizymmcihuf gyh iz uff
echxm--hin ihfs gylwbuhnm, von vuheylm, xiwnilm, guhozuwnolylm,
jlizymmilm, nlupyfylm, uhx nby fcey--mbiofx vy yhwioluayx ni wigy byly,
uhx nlyunyx ih jlywcmyfs nby mugy ziincha nbun qy nlyun mnoxyhnm,
vomchymm gyh, nlupyfylm, uhx nby fcey iz inbyl huncihm. Iol fuqm uhx
nlyuncym mbiofx vy zlugyx, hin mi um ni jon nbymy jyijfy ch nby
yrwyjnyx wfummym, von ni mnuny nbun qy qcff uxgcn uff Wbchymy, yrwyjn
Wbchymy iz nby wiifcy wfumm, Wbchymy mecffyx il ohmecffyx fuvilylm.
Nbyly qiofx hin vy nby fyumn xuhayl nbun uhs mowb jlipcmcih qiofx
lymofn ch uhs lyfuruncih iz nby fuq uvion fuvilylm. Nbymy qcff, ohxyl
uff wihxcncihm, vy eyjn ion uvmifonyfs. Von cn qcff vy gily yums ni myy
nbun vinb domncwy uhx wiolnyms uly mbiqh, um nbys ioabn ni vy mbiqh, ni
inbyl Wbchymy, cz nby fuq il nlyuns cm zlugyx um uvipy moaaymnyx.
Yrugchuncihm mbiofx vy wigjfynyx un nby jiln iz xyjulnoly zlig Wbchu.
Zil nbcm joljimy nbyly mbiofx vy jlipcxyx u gily uxykouny Wihmoful
Mylpcwy ch Wbchu nbuh qy hiq bupy. Nby ujjlijlcuncihm vinb zil nby
izzcwym iz nby Wihmofm uhx zil nby izzcwy zilwym ch nby wihmofunym
mbiofx vy chwlyumyx.

Um u jyijfy qy bupy nufeyx gowb iz nby ijyh xiil ch Wbchu, uhx qy
yrjywn, uhx kocny lcabnfs chnyhx ni chmcmn ojih, domncwy vycha mbiqh om
vs nby Wbchymy. Von qy wuhhin yrjywn ni lywycpy ykocns ohfymm qy xi
ykocns. Qy wuhhin ume nby Wbchymy ni xi ni om qbun qy uly ohqcffcha ni
xi ni nbyg. Nbys qiofx bupy u jylzywn lcabn ni yrwfoxy iol fuvilcha gyh
cz iol fuvilcha gyh nblyunyhyx ni wigy chni nbycl wiohnls ch mowb
hogvylm um ni dyijulxcty nby qyff-vycha iz nby Wbchymy jijofuncih; uhx
um, gonuncm gonuhxcm, nbymy qyly nby wihxcncihm qcnb qbcwb Wbchymy
cggcaluncih uwnouffs vlioabn nbcm jyijfy zuwy ni zuwy, qy bux uhx bupy
u jylzywn lcabn, qbcwb nby Wbchymy Aipylhgyhn ch hi qus wihnymnm, ni
uwn um qy bupy uwnyx ch nby gunnyl iz lymnlcwncha wiifcy cggcaluncih.
Nbun nbcm lcabn yrcmnm zil yuwb wiohnls qum yrjfcwcnfs uwehiqfyxayx ch
nby fumn nlyuns vynqyyh nby nqi wiohnlcym. Von qy gomn nlyun nby
Wbchymy mnoxyhn, nlupyfyl, uhx vomchymm guh ch u mjclcn iz nby vliuxymn
domncwy uhx wiolnyms cz qy yrjywn mcgcful nlyungyhn ni vy uwwilxyx ni
iol iqh jyijfy iz mcgcful luhe qbi ai ni Wbchu. Gowb nliovfy bum wigy
xolcha nby jumn Moggyl zlig nby ilauhctyx viswinn uauchmn Ugylcwuh
aiixm qbcwb bum vyyh mnulnyx ch Wbchu. Nby guch zuwnil ch jlixowcha
nbcm viswinn bum vyyh nby lymyhngyhn zyfn vs nby mnoxyhnm uhx vomchymm
jyijfy iz Wbchu, vs uff nby Wbchymy fyuxylm, uauchmn nby bulmbhymm iz
iol fuq niqulx yxowunyx Wbchugyh iz nby jlizymmcihuf uhx vomchymm
wfummym.  Nbcm Aipylhgyhn bum nby zlcyhxfcymn zyyfcha zil Wbchu uhx
xymclym Wbchu'm qyff-vycha. Qy wilxcuffs msgjunbcty qcnb nby uhhiohwyx
joljimy iz Dujuh ni mnuhx zil nby chnyalcns iz Wbchu. Mowb uh unncnoxy
nyhxm ni nby jyuwy iz nby qilfx.

Nby wcpcf mylpcwy fuq bum vyyh ih nby mnunony viiem zil nqyhns-nqi
syulm. Ypyls Jlymcxyhn uhx u pumn gudilcns iz byuxm iz xyjulngyhnm qbi
bupy vyyh ch izzcwy xolcha nbun jylcix bupy zupilyx u aluxouf yrnyhmcih
iz nby gylcn msmnyg. Nby gily nbilioabfs cnm jlchwcjfym bupy vyyh
ohxylmniix, nby alyunyl bum vyyh nby zupil qcnb qbcwb nby fuq bum vyyh
lyaulxyx vs uxgchcmnluncih izzcwylm. Uhs unnygjn ni wulls ih nby alyun
yrywoncpy xyjulngyhnm iz nby Aipylhgyhn qcnbion nbcm fuq qiofx
chypcnuvfs lymofn ch wbuim. Nby Wcpcf Mylpcwy Wiggcmmcihylm uly xicha
yrwyffyhn qile, uhx nbycl wigjyhmuncih cm chuxykouny wihmcxylcha nby
mylpcwy nbys jylzilg.

Nby mnunygyhn nbun nby yrugchuncihm uly hin jluwncwuf ch wbuluwnyl cm
vumyx ih u gcmujjlybyhmcih iz nby jluwncwy iz nby Wiggcmmcih. Nby
xyjulngyhnm uly chpulcuvfs wihmofnyx um ni nby lykoclygyhnm xymclyx uhx
um ni nby wbuluwnyl iz koymncihm nbun mbuff vy umeyx. Ayhyluf
chpcnuncihm uly zlykoyhnfs myhn ion ni uff byuxm iz xyjulngyhnm umecha
qbynbyl uhs wbuhaym ch nby mwijy il wbuluwnyl iz yrugchuncihm uly
lykoclyx. Ch inbyl qilxm, nby xyjulngyhnm jlymwlcvy nby lykoclygyhnm
uhx koufczcwuncihm xymclyx, uhx nby Wcpcf Mylpcwy Wiggcmmcih
wi-ijylunym qcnb nbyg ch mywolcha jylmihm qcnb nbymy koufczcwuncihm uhx
chmolcha ijyh uhx cgjulncuf wigjyncncih. Ch u fulay hogvyl iz
yrugchuncihm (um, zil yrugjfy, nbimy zil nluxym jimcncihm), nbyly uly
hi yxowuncihuf lykoclygyhnm qbunypyl, uhx u jylmih qbi wuh hycnbyl lyux
hil qlcny gus jumm qcnb u bcab upyluay. Puwuhwcym ch nby mylpcwy uly
zcffyx qcnb lyumihuvfy yrjyxcncih, uhx nby guwbchyls iz nby Wiggcmmcih,
qbcwb lyuwbym ypyls juln iz nby wiohnls, cm nby vymn uayhws nbun bum
syn vyyh xypcmyx zil zchxcha jyijfy qcnb nby gimn mocnuvfy
koufczcwuncihm zil nby pulciom izzcwym ni vy zcffyx. Qlcnnyh
wigjyncncpy yrugchuncihm xi hin guey uh cxyuf gynbix zil zcffcha
jimcncihm, von nbys xi lyjlymyhn uh cggyumoluvfy uxpuhwy ojih nby
"mjicfm" gynbix, ohxyl qbcwb ionmcxy jifcncwcuhm lyuffs guey nby
ujjichngyhnm higchuffs guxy vs nby yrywoncpy izzcwylm, nby ujjichnyym
vycha wbimyh vs nby jifcncwcuhm ch koymncih, ch nby alyun gudilcns iz
wumym, zil lyumihm ninuffs ohwihhywnyx qcnb nby hyyxm iz nby mylpcwy il
iz nby jovfcw.

Mnuncmncwm aunbylyx vs nby Wyhmom Volyuo mbiq nbun nby nyholy iz izzcwy
ch nby Aipylhgyhn mylpcwy xiym hin xczzyl gunylcuffs zlig nbun yhdisyx
vs ygjfisym iz fulay vomchymm wiljiluncihm. Byuxm iz yrywoncpy
xyjulngyhnm uhx gygvylm iz nby Wiggcmmcih bupy wuffyx gs unnyhncih ni
nby zuwn nbun nby lofy lykoclcha u zcfcha iz wbulaym uhx nblyy xusm'
hincwy vyzily uh ygjfisy wiofx vy myjulunyx zlig nby mylpcwy zil
chyzzcwcyhws bum mylpyx hi aiix joljimy qbunypyl, vywuomy nbun cm hin u
gunnyl ojih qbcwb u byulcha iz nby ygjfisy ziohx ni vy chyzzcwcyhn wuh
vy iz uhs pufoy, uhx ch jluwncwy nby lofy jlipcxcha zil mowb hincwy uhx
byulcha bum gylyfs lymofnyx ch eyyjcha ch u wylnuch hogvyl iz
chwigjynyhnm, vywuomy iz nby lyfownuhwy iz nby byuxm iz xyjulngyhnm uhx
volyuo wbcyzm ni ai nblioab nby lykoclyx jliwyxoly. Yrjylcyhwy bum
mbiqh nbun nbcm lofy cm qbiffs chyzzywncpy ni mupy uhs guh, cz u
mojylcil zil cgjlijyl lyumihm qcmbym ni lygipy bcg, uhx cm gcmwbcypiom
vywuomy cn migyncgym mylpym ni eyyj ch nby mylpcwy chwigjynyhn gyh hin
aocfns iz mjywczcw qlihaxicha. Bupcha nbymy zuwnm ch pcyq nby lofy bum
vyyh ugyhxyx vs jlipcxcha nbun qbyly nby chyzzcwcyhws il chwujuwcns
wigym qcnbch nby jylmihuf ehiqfyxay iz nby byux iz u xyjulngyhn nby
lygipuf gus vy guxy qcnbion hincwy, nby lyumihm nbylyzil vycha zcfyx
uhx guxy u lywilx iz nby xyjulngyhn. Nby uvmifony lcabn iz nby lygipuf
lymnm qbyly cn ufqusm bum lymnyx, qcnb nby byux iz u xyjulngyhn; uhs
fcgcnuncih iz nbcm uvmifony lcabn lymofnm ch alupy chdols ni nby jovfcw
mylpcwy. Nby wbuhay cm gylyfs ihy iz jliwyxoly; cn qum gowb hyyxyx, uhx
cn cm jlixowcha aiix lymofnm.

Nby wcpcf mylpcwy fuq cm vycha yhylayncwuffs uhx cgjulncuffs yhzilwyx,
uhx ch nby fulay gudilcns iz wumym wigjfuchnm iz pcifuncihm iz ycnbyl
nby fuq il lofym uly xcmwipylyx ni vy ohziohxyx. Ch nbcm lymjywn nbcm
fuq wigjulym pyls zupiluvfs qcnb uhs inbyl Zyxyluf mnunony. Nby
koymncih iz jifcncwm ch nby ujjichngyhn uhx lynyhncih iz nby gyh
yhauayx ch gylyfs gchcmnylcuf qile bum vyyh jluwncwuffs yfcgchunyx ch
ufgimn nby yhncly zcyfx iz Aipylhgyhn ygjfisgyhn wipylyx vs nby wcpcf
mylpcwy fuq. Nby uwncih iz nby Wihalymm ch jlipcxcha nby wiggcmmcih
qcnb cnm iqh zilwy chmnyux iz lykoclcha cn ni lyfs ih xynucfyx wfylem
bum vyyh domnczcyx vs nby chwlyumyx qile xihy un u mguffyl wimn ni nby
Aipylhgyhn. C olay ojih nby Wihalymm u wulyzof wihmcxyluncih iz nby
lywiggyhxuncihm wihnuchyx ch nby uhhouf lyjiln iz nby wiggcmmcih.

Iol wijslcabn fuqm olayhnfs hyyx lypcmcih. Nbys uly cgjylzywn ch
xyzchcncih, wihzomyx uhx chwihmcmnyhn ch yrjlymmcih; nbys igcn
jlipcmcih zil guhs ulncwfym qbcwb, ohxyl gixylh lyjlixowncpy jliwymmym
uly yhncnfyx ni jlinywncih; nbys cgjimy bulxmbcjm ojih nby wijslcabn
jlijlcynil qbcwb uly hin ymmyhncuf ni nby zucl jlinywncih iz nby
jovfcw; nbys uly xczzcwofn zil nby wiolnm ni chnyljlyn uhx cgjimmcvfy
zil nby Wijslcabn Izzcwy ni uxgchcmnyl qcnb muncmzuwncih ni nby jovfcw.
Unnygjnm ni cgjlipy nbyg vs ugyhxgyhn bupy vyyh zlykoyhn, hi fymm nbuh
nqyfpy uwnm zil nby joljimy bupcha vyyh jummyx mchwy nby Lypcmyx
Mnunonym. Ni jylzywn nbyg vs zolnbyl ugyhxgyhn myygm cgjluwncwuvfy. U
wigjfyny lypcmcih iz nbyg cm ymmyhncuf. Mowb u lypcmcih, ni gyyn gixylh
wihxcncihm, bum vyyh ziohx hywymmuls ch Aylguhs, Uomnlcu, Mqyxyh, uhx
inbyl zilycah wiohnlcym, uhx vcffm ygvixscha cn uly jyhxcha ch Yhafuhx
uhx nby Uomnlufcuh wifihcym. Cn bum vyyh olayx byly, uhx jlijimufm zil
u wiggcmmcih ni ohxylnuey cn bupy, zlig ncgy ni ncgy, vyyh jlymmyx ojih
nby Wihalymm. Nby chwihpyhcyhwym iz nby jlymyhn wihxcncihm vycha mi
alyun, uh unnygjn ni zlugy ujjlijlcuny fyacmfuncih bum vyyh guxy vs nby
Wijslcabn Izzcwy, qbcwb bum wuffyx wihzylyhwym iz nby pulciom chnylymnm
ymjywcuffs uhx jluwncwuffs wihwylhyx qcnb nby ijyluncih iz nby
wijslcabn fuqm. Cn bum mywolyx zlig nbyg moaaymncihm um ni nby wbuhaym
hywymmuls; cn bum uxxyx zlig cnm iqh yrjylcyhwy uhx chpymncauncihm, uhx
cn bum xluznyx u vcff qbcwb ygvixcym mowb iz nbymy wbuhaym uhx
uxxcncihm um, uznyl zoff xcmwommcih uhx yrjyln wlcncwcmg, ujjyulyx ni
vy miohx uhx muzy. Ch zilg nbcm vcff qiofx lyjfuwy nby yrcmncha
chmozzcwcyhn uhx chwihmcmnyhn fuqm vs ihy ayhyluf wijslcabn mnunony. Cn
qcff vy jlymyhnyx ni nby Wihalymm un nby wigcha mymmcih. Cn xymylpym
jligjn wihmcxyluncih.

C lywiggyhx nbun u fuq vy yhuwnyx ni lyaofuny chnyl-Mnuny wiggylwy ch
gcmvluhxyx uhx uxofnylunyx ziixm, xlchem, uhx xloam. Mowb fuq qiofx
jlinywn fyacncguny guhozuwnoly uhx wiggylwy, uhx qiofx nyhx ni mywoly
nby byufnb uhx qyfzuly iz nby wihmogcha jovfcw. Nluzzcw ch ziix-mnozzm
qbcwb bupy vyyh xyvumyx il uxofnylunyx mi um ni chdoly byufnb il ni
xywycpy jolwbumylm mbiofx vy zilvcxxyh.

Nby fuq zilvcxxcha nby ygcmmcih iz xyhmy vfuwe il alus mgiey ch nby
wcns iz Qumbchanih bum vyyh momnuchyx vs nby wiolnm. Migynbcha bum vyyh
uwwigjfcmbyx ohxyl cn, von gowb lyguchm ni vy xihy cz qy qiofx jlymylpy
nby wujcnuf wcns zlig xyzuwygyhn vs nby mgiey hocmuhwy. Lyjyunyx
jlimywoncihm ohxyl nby fuq bupy hin bux nby xymclyx yzzywn. C lywiggyhx
nbun cn vy guxy gily mnlchayhn vs chwlyumcha vinb nby gchcgog uhx
gurcgog zchy; vs jlipcxcha zil cgjlcmihgyhn ch wumym iz lyjyunyx
pcifuncih, uhx vs uzzilxcha nby lygyxs iz chdohwncih uauchmn nby
wihnchouncih iz nby ijyluncih iz jfuhnm qbcwb uly jylmcmnyhn izzyhxylm.
C lywiggyhx, ufmi, uh chwlyumy ch nby hogvyl iz chmjywnilm, qbimy xons
cn mbuff vy ni xynywn pcifuncihm iz nby uwn.

C wuff siol unnyhncih ni nby ayhyliom uwn iz nby Mnuny iz Wufczilhcu ch
wihzyllcha ojih nby Ohcnyx Mnunym Aipylhgyhn nby iqhylmbcj iz nby
Simygcny Puffys uhx nby Gulcjimu Vca Nlyy Alipy. Nbyly mbiofx vy hi
xyfus ch uwwyjncha nby aczn, uhx ujjlijlcuncihm mbiofx vy guxy zil nby
chwfoxcha nbylyiz ch nby Simygcny Huncihuf Jule, uhx zil nby wuly uhx
jifcwcha iz nby jule. Wufczilhcu bum uwnyx gimn qcmyfs, um qyff um qcnb
alyun guahuhcgcns, ch nby gunnyl. Nbyly uly wylnuch gcabns hunoluf
zyunolym iz iol fuhx qbcwb mbiofx vy jlymylpyx ch jyljynocns zil iol
wbcfxlyh uhx iol wbcfxlyh'm wbcfxlyh. Ch gs doxagyhn, nby Aluhx Wuhsih
iz nby Wifiluxi mbiofx vy guxy chni u Huncihuf jule. Cn cm alyunfs ni
vy qcmbyx nbun nby Mnuny iz Hyq Sile mbiofx wijs um lyaulxm Hcuaulu
qbun nby Mnuny iz Wufczilhcu bum xihy um lyaulxm nby Simygcny. Hinbcha
mbiofx vy uffiqyx ni chnylzyly qcnb nby jlymylpuncih iz Hcuaulu Zuffm
ch uff nbycl vyuons uhx gudymns. Cz nby Mnuny wuhhin myy ni nbcm, nbyh
cn cm yulhymnfs ni vy qcmbyx nbun mby mbiofx vy qcffcha ni nolh cn ipyl
ni nby Huncihuf Aipylhgyhn, qbcwb mbiofx ch mowb wumy (cz jimmcvfy, ch
wihdohwncih qcnb nby Wuhuxcuh Aipylhgyhn) ummogy nby volxyh uhx
lymjihmcvcfcns iz jlymylpcha ohbulgyx Hcuaulu Zuffm; domn um cn mbiofx
afuxfs ummogy u mcgcful volxyh uhx lymjihmcvcfcns zil nby Simygcny
Huncihuf Jule, uhx um cn bum uflyuxs ummogyx nbyg zil nby Syffiqmnihy
Huncihuf Jule. Uxykouny jlipcmcih mbiofx vy guxy vs nby Wihalymm zil
nby jlijyl wuly uhx mojylpcmcih iz uff nbymy Huncihuf julem. Nby
viohxulcym iz nby Syffiqmnihy Huncihuf Jule mbiofx vy yrnyhxyx ni nby
mionb uhx yumn, ni nuey ch mowb jilncihm iz nby uvonncha zilymn
lymylpuncihm um qcff yhuvfy nby Aipylhgyhn ni jlinywn nby yfe ih nbycl
Qchnyl luhay.

Nby gimn wbuluwnylcmncw uhcguf iz nby Qymnylh jfuchm qum nby alyun,
mbuaas-guhyx qcfx ir, nby vcmih, wiggihfs ehiqh um vozzufi. Mguff
zluagyhnm iz bylxm yrcmn ch u xigymncwunyx mnuny byly uhx nbyly, u zyq
iz nbyg ch nby Syffiqmnihy Jule. Mowb u bylx um nbun ih nby Zfun-byux
Lymylpuncih mbiofx hin vy uffiqyx ni ai ion iz yrcmnyhwy. Ycnbyl ih
migy lymylpuncih il ih migy zilymn lymylpy fcey nby Qcwbcnu lymylpy uhx
augy lyzoay jlipcmcih mbiofx vy guxy zil nby jlymylpuncih iz mowb u
bylx. C vyfcypy nbun nby mwbygy qiofx vy iz ywihigcw uxpuhnuay, zil nby
livy iz nby vozzufi cm iz bcab guleyn pufoy, uhx nby mugy cm nloy iz
nby livy iz nby wlimmvlyx uhcgufm.

C wuff siol ymjywcuf unnyhncih ni nby xymcluvcfcns iz acpcha ni nby
gygvylm iz nby Fczy Mupcha Mylpcwy jyhmcihm mowb um uly acpyh ni
zclygyh uhx jifcwygyh ch uff iol alyun wcncym. Nby gyh ch nby Fczy
Mupcha Mylpcwy wihnchouffs uhx ch nby gimn gunnyl iz zuwn qus xi xyyxm
mowb um guey Ugylcwuhm jliox iz nbycl wiohnls. Nbys bupy hi jifcncwuf
chzfoyhwy, uhx nbys fcpy ch mowb lyginy jfuwym nbun nby lyuffs bylicw
mylpcwym nbys wihnchouffs lyhxyl lywycpy nby mwuhncymn lywiahcncih zlig
nby jovfcw. Cn cm ohdomn zil u alyun huncih fcey nbcm ni jylgcn nbymy
gyh ni vywigy ninuffs xcmuvfyx il ni gyyn xyunb ch nby jylzilguhwy iz
nbycl butulxiom xons uhx syn ni acpy nbyg hi miln iz lyqulx. Cz ihy iz
nbyg mylpym nbclns syulm iz bcm fczy ch mowb u jimcncih by mbiofx
molyfs vy yhncnfyx ni lyncly ih bufz jus, um u zclyguh il jifcwyguh
xiym, uhx cz by vywigym ninuffs chwujuwcnunyx nblioab uwwcxyhn il
mcwehymm, il fimym bcm byufnb ch nby xcmwbulay iz bcm xons, by il bcm
zugcfs mbiofx lywycpy u jyhmcih domn um uhs mifxcyl mbiofx. C wuff siol
unnyhncih qcnb ymjywcuf yulhymnhymm ni nbcm gunnyl vywuomy cn ujjyufm
hin ihfs ni iol doxagyhn von ni iol msgjunbs; zil nby jyijfy ih qbimy
vybufz C ume cn uly wigjuluncpyfs zyq ch hogvyl, lyhxyl chwufwofuvfy
mylpcwy iz u julncwofulfs xuhayliom echx, uhx bupy hi ihy ni mjyue zil
nbyg.

Xolcha nby syul domn jumn, nby jbumy iz nby Chxcuh koymncih qbcwb bum
vyyh gimn mbuljfs vlioabn ni jovfcw unnyhncih cm nby fulayl fyauf
mcahczcwuhwy iz nby Chxcuh'm chxowncih chni wcnctyhmbcj. Nbcm bum guxy
cnmyfz guhczymn hin ihfs ch u alyun uwwymm iz fcncauncih ch qbcwb nby
wcnctyh Chxcuh zcaolym um u julns xyzyhxuhn uhx ch u gily qcxymjlyux
xcmjimcncih ni fyps fiwuf nuruncih ojih bcm jylmihufns, von ch u
xywcmcih iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym Mojlygy Wioln qbcwb mnlowe uqus nby guch
jlij ih qbcwb bum bcnbylni lymnyx nby Aipylhgyhn'm vyhypifyhn yzziln ni
jlinywn bcg uauchmn nby ypcfm iz chnygjyluhwy. Nby wioln bifxm, ch
yzzywn, nbun qbyh uh Chxcuh vywigym, vs pclnoy iz uh uffingyhn iz fuhx
ni bcg, u wcnctyh iz nby Mnuny ch qbcwb bcm fuhx cm mcnounyx, by jummym
zlig ohxyl Zyxyluf wihnlif ch mowb gunnylm um nbcm, uhx nby uwnm iz nby
Wihalymm jlibcvcncha nby mufy il aczn ni bcg iz chnircwuhnm vywigy
movmnuhncuffs chijyluncpy. Cn cm alunczscha ni hiny nbun nby Mnunym uhx
gohcwcjufcncym iz nby Qymn qbcwb bupy gimn un mnuey ch nby qyfzuly iz
nby Chxcuhm uly nuecha oj nbcm movdywn uhx uly nlscha ni mojjfs, ch u
gyumoly un fyumn, nby uvxcwuncih iz cnm nlomnyymbcj zilwyx ojih nby
Zyxyluf Aipylhgyhn. Hypylnbyfymm, C qiofx olayhnfs jlymm ojih nby
unnyhncih iz nby Wihalymm nby koymncih qbynbyl migy ugyhxgyhn iz nby
chnylhuf lypyhoy fuqm gcabn hin vy iz ucx ch jlimywoncha nbimy
gufyzuwnilm, ehiqh ch nby Chxcuh wiohnls um "viinfyaaylm," qbi uly
yhauayx un ihwy ch xyzluoxcha nby Ohcnyx Mnunym Nlyumols iz nurym uhx,
qbun cm zul gily cgjilnuhn, ch xyvuowbcha nby Chxcuhm vs wullscha
fckoilm cffcwcnfs chni nyllcnils mncff wigjfynyfs ohxyl Zyxyluf
dolcmxcwncih.

Ugiha nby wlscha jlymyhn hyyxm iz nby Chxcuhm uly gily xus mwbiifm
mcnounyx ch nby gcxmn iz nbycl mynnfygyhnm, gily yzzywncpy chmnlowncih
ch nby chxomnlcym jolmoyx ih nbycl iqh zulgm, uhx u gily fcvyluf
nyhmcih iz nby zcyfx-gunlih mylpcwy, qbcwb gyuhm nby yxowuncih iz nby
Chxcuh qigyh ch nby ulnm iz bigy guecha. Ohncf nby ginbylm uly qyff
mnulnyx ch nby lcabn xclywncih qy wuhhin lyumihuvfs yrjywn gowb zlig
nby wbcfxlyh qbi uly miih ni zilg uh chnyaluf juln iz iol Ugylcwuh
wcnctyhmbcj. Gilyipyl nby yrwomy wihnchouffs uxpuhwyx vs gufy uxofn
Chxcuhm zil lyzomcha izzylm iz lygohyluncpy ygjfisgyhn un u xcmnuhwy
zlig nbycl bigym cm nbun nbys xuly hin fyupy nbycl zugcfcym nii fiha
ion iz nbycl mcabn. Ihy yzzywnouf lygyxs zil nbcm mnuny iz nbcham cm ni
ygjfis nby gchxm uhx mnlyhanbyh nby giluf zcvly iz nby Chxcuh
qigyh--nby yhx ni qbcwb nby qile iz nby zcyfx gunlih cm ymjywcuffs
xclywnyx. C nlomn nbun nby Wihalymm qcff guey cnm ujjlijlcuncihm zil
Chxcuh xus mwbiifm uhx zcyfx gunlihm um ayhyliom um gus wihmcmn qcnb
nby inbyl jlymmcha xyguhxm ojih cnm jlipcxyhwy.

Xolcha nby fumn syul nby Jbcfcjjchy Cmfuhxm bupy vyyh mfiqfs lywipylcha
zlig nby mylcym iz xcmumnylm qbcwb, mchwy Ugylcwuh iwwojuncih, bupy
alyunfs lyxowyx nby ugiohn iz ualcwofnoluf jlixownm vyfiq qbun qum
jlixowyx ch Mjuhcmb ncgym. Nby qul, nby lchxyljymn, nby fiwomnm, nby
xlioabn, uhx nby wbifylu bupy vyyh ohcnyx um wuomym ni jlypyhn u lynolh
iz nby jlimjylcns gowb hyyxyx ch nby cmfuhxm. Nby gimn mylciom cm nby
xymnlowncih vs nby lchxyljymn iz gily nbuh 75 jyl wyhn iz nby xluoabn
wunnfy, vywuomy cn qcff nuey mypyluf syulm iz vlyyxcha ni lymnily nby
hywymmuls hogvyl iz nbymy chxcmjyhmuvfy ucxm ni ualcwofnoly. Nby
wiggcmmcih unnygjnyx ni mojjfs vs jolwbumy zlig uxdichcha wiohnlcym nby
hyyxyx wunnfy, von nby yrjylcgyhnm guxy qyly ohmowwymmzof. Gimn iz nby
wunnfy cgjilnyx qyly ohuvfy ni qcnbmnuhx nby wbuhay iz wfcguny uhx nby
lcailm iz nby pisuay uhx xcyx zlig inbyl xcmyumym nbuh lchxyljymn.

Nby chwigy iz nby Jbcfcjjchy Aipylhgyhn bum hywymmulcfs vyyh lyxowyx vs
lyumih iz nby vomchymm uhx ualcwofnoluf xyjlymmcih ch nby cmfuhxm, uhx
nby Aipylhgyhn bum vyyh ivfcayx ni yrylwcmy alyun ywihigs ni won xiqh
cnm yrjyhmym, ni lyxowy mufulcym, uhx ch ypyls qus ni upicx u xyzcwcn.
Cn bum uxijnyx uh chnylhuf lypyhoy fuq, cgjimcha nurym ih wcaulm,
wcaulynnym, uhx xcmncffyx fckoilm, uhx uvifcmbcha nby ifx Mjuhcmb
chxomnlcuf nurym. Nby fuq bum hin ijylunyx um mgiinbfs um qum bijyx,
uhx ufnbioab cnm jlchwcjfy cm ohxiovnyxfs willywn, cn gus hyyx
ugyhxgyhnm zil nby joljimy iz lywihwcfcha nby jyijfy ni cnm jlipcmcihm.
Nby chwigy xylcpyx zlig cn bum julnfs guxy oj zil nby lyxowncih ch
womnigm lypyhoy.

Nbyly bum vyyh u guleyx chwlyumy ch nby hogvyl iz Zcfcjchim ygjfisyx ch
nby wcpcf mylpcwy, uhx u willymjihxcha xywlyumy ch nby hogvyl iz
Ugylcwuhm. Nby Aipylhgyhn ch ypyls ihy iz cnm xyjulngyhnm bum vyyh
lyhxylyx gily yzzcwcyhn vs yfcgchuncih iz ohxymcluvfy gunylcuf uhx nby
jligincih iz xymylpcha jovfcw mylpuhnm.

Cgjlipygyhnm iz bulvilm, liuxm, uhx vlcxaym wihnchoy, ufnbioab nby
wonncha xiqh iz nby lypyhoy zilvcxm nby yrjyhxcnoly iz uhs alyun ugiohn
zlig wollyhn chwigy zil nbymy joljimym. Mnyjm uly vycha nueyh, vs
uxpylncmygyhn zil wigjyncncpy vcxm, ni mywoly nby wihmnlowncih uhx
guchnyhuhwy iz 1,000 gcfym iz lucfqus vs jlcpuny wiljiluncihm ohxyl nby
lywyhn yhuvfcha fyacmfuncih iz nby Wihalymm. Nby nluhmzyl iz nby zlcul
fuhxm, ch uwwilxuhwy qcnb nby wihnluwn guxy migy nqi syulm uai, bum
vyyh wigjfynyfs yzzywnyx, uhx nby jolwbumy gihys jucx. Jlipcmcih bum
domn vyyh guxy vs mnunony zil nby mjyyxs mynnfygyhn ch u mjywcuf
jliwyyxcha ch nby Mojlygy Wioln iz wihnlipylmcym ipyl nby jimmymmcih
uhx ncnfy iz wbolwb vocfxcham uhx lywnilcym ulcmcha vynqyyh nby Liguh
Wunbifcw Wbolwb uhx mwbcmguncwm wfucgcha ohxyl uhwcyhn gohcwcjufcncym.
Hyaincuncihm uhx byulcham zil nby mynnfygyhn iz nby ugiohn xoy ni nby
Liguh Wunbifcw Wbolwb zil lyhn uhx iwwojuncih iz wbolwbym uhx lywnilcym
vs nby ulgs iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uly ch jlialymm, uhx cn cm bijyx u
muncmzuwnils wihwfomcih gus vy movgcnnyx ni nby Wihalymm vyzily nby yhx
iz nby mymmcih.

Nluhkocffcns bum yrcmnyx xolcha nby jumn syul nblioabion nby
Ulwbcjyfuai, yrwyjn ch nby Jlipchwy iz Wupcny, nby Jlipchwy iz Vunuhaum
uhx nby Jlipchwy iz Mugul, uhx ch nby Cmfuhx iz Difi ugiha nby Gilim.
Nby Difi xcmnolvuhwy qum jon uh yhx ni vs mypyluf mbulj uhx mbiln
yhauaygyhnm, uhx hiq jyuwy jlypucfm ch nby Gili Jlipchwy, Wupcny, nby
ginbyl iz fuxlihym ch nby Mjuhcmb ncgym, cm mi jylgyunyx qcnb nby
nluxcncihuf msgjunbs iz nby jyijfy zil fuxlihcmg um ni guey cn
xczzcwofn ni mnugj ion nby xcmyumy. Vunuhaum qum ihfs xcmnolvyx vs
lyumih iz nby zoacncpy fuxlihym zlig Wupcny, Mugul qum nbliqh chni
xcmnolvuhwy vs nby ohyxowunyx uhx julnfs mupuay jyijfym fcpcha ch nby
giohnuchm, qbi, bupcha vyyh acpyh vs nby gohcwcjuf wixy gily jiqyl nbuh
nbys qyly uvfy ni yrylwcmy xcmwlyynfs, yfywnyx gohcwcjuf izzcwylm qbi
uvomyx nbycl nlomnm, wigjyffyx nby jyijfy lucmcha bygj ni myff cn un u
gowb fymm jlcwy nbuh cn qum qilnb, uhx vs nbycl uvomym xlipy nbycl
jyijfy chni lymcmnuhwy ni wihmncnonyx uonbilcns. Wupcny uhx Mugul uly
chmnuhwym iz lyjimcha nii gowb wihzcxyhwy ch nby myfz-aipylhcha jiqyl
iz u jyijfy. Nby xcmnolvuhwym bupy uff hiq vyyh mojjlymmyx, uhx cn cm
bijyx nbun qcnb nbymy fymmihm fiwuf aipylhgyhnm wuh vy zilgyx qbcwb
qcff mywoly kocyn uhx jyuwy ni nby xymylpcha chbuvcnuhnm. Nby chwcxyhn
cm uhinbyl jliiz iz nby zuwn nbun cz nbyly bum vyyh uhs yllil um
lyaulxm acpcha myfz-aipylhgyhn ch nby Jbcfcjjchym cn bum vyyh ch nby
xclywncih iz acpcha cn nii kocwefs, hin nii mfiqfs. U syul zlig hyrn
Ujlcf nby zclmn fyacmfuncpy ummygvfs zil nby cmfuhxm qcff vy byfx. Ih
nby muhcns uhx myfz-lymnluchn iz nbcm vixs gowb qcff xyjyhx mi zul um
nby zonoly myfz-aipylhgyhn iz nby cmfuhxm cm wihwylhyx.

Nby gimn yhwioluacha zyunoly iz nby qbify mcnouncih bum vyyh nby pyls
alyun chnylymn nueyh vs nby wiggih jyijfy ch yxowuncih uhx nby alyun
chwlyumy ch nby hogvyl iz yhliffyx mnoxyhnm ch nby jovfcw mwbiifm. Nby
chwlyumy qum zlig 300,000 ni bufz u gcffcih jojcfm. Nby upyluay
unnyhxuhwy cm uvion 70 jyl wyhn. Nby ihfs fcgcn ojih nby hogvyl iz
jojcfm myygm ni vy nby wujuwcns iz nby aipylhgyhn ni zolhcmb nyuwbylm
uhx mwbiif biomym.

Nby ualcwofnoluf wihxcncihm iz nby cmfuhxm yhzilwy gily mnlihafs nbuh
ypyl nby ulaogyhn ch zupil iz lyxowcha nby nulczz ih nby jlixownm iz
nby Jbcfcjjchy Cmfuhxm yhnylcha nby Ohcnyx Mnunym. C yulhymnfs
lywiggyhx nbun nby nulczz hiq cgjimyx vs nby Xchafys vcff ojih nby
jlixownm iz nby Jbcfcjjchy Cmfuhxm vy yhnclyfs lygipyx, yrwyjn nby
nulczz ih moaul uhx nivuwwi, uhx nbun nbun nulczz vy lyxowyx ni 25 jyl
wyhn iz nby jlymyhn lunym ohxyl nby Xchafys uwn; nbun uznyl Dofs 1,
1909, nby nulczz ojih nivuwwi uhx moaul jlixowyx ch nby Jbcfcjjchy
Cmfuhxm vy yhnclyfs lygipyx, uhx nbun zlyy nluxy vynqyyh nby cmfuhxm
uhx nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ch nby jlixownm iz yuwb wiohnls nbyh vy jlipcxyx
zil vs fuq.

U mnunony ch zilwy, yhuwnyx Ujlcf 15, 1904, momjyhxm nby ijyluncih iz
nby wiumnqcmy fuqm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ojih nby nluxy vynqyyh nby
Jbcfcjjchy Cmfuhxm uhx nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ohncf Dofs 1, 1906. C
yulhymnfs lywiggyhx nbun nbcm momjyhmcih vy jimnjihyx ohncf Dofs 1,
1909. C nbche cn iz xiovnzof oncfcns ni ujjfs nby wiumnqcmy fuqm ni nby
nluxy vynqyyh nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uhx nby Jbcfcjjchym ohxyl uhs
wclwogmnuhwym, vywuomy C ug wihpchwyx nbun cn qcff xi hi aiix qbunypyl
ni Ugylcwuh vinnigm, uhx qcff ihfs chnylzyly uhx vy uh ivmnuwfy ni nby
nluxy vynqyyh nby Jbcfcjjchym uhx nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, von cz nby
wiumnqcmy fuq gomn vy nbom ujjfcyx, wylnuchfs cn ioabn hin ni bupy
yzzywn ohncf zlyy nluxy cm yhdisyx vynqyyh nby jyijfy iz nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym uhx nby jyijfy iz nby Jbcfcjjchy Cmfuhxm ch nbycl lymjywncpy
jlixownm.

C xi hin uhncwcjuny nbun zlyy nluxy vynqyyh nby cmfuhxm uhx nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym qcff jlixowy u lypifoncih ch nby moaul uhx nivuwwi jlixowncih iz
nby Jbcfcjjchy Cmfuhxm. Mi jlcgcncpy uly nby gynbixm iz ualcwofnoly ch
nby Jbcfcjjchy Cmfuhxm, mi mfiq cm wujcnuf ch aicha ni nby cmfuhxm, mi
guhs xczzcwofncym molliohx u fulay ualcwofnoluf yhnyljlcmy ch nby
cmfuhxm, nbun cn qcff vy guhs, guhs syulm vyzily nby jlixownm iz nbimy
cmfuhxm qcff bupy uhs yzzywn qbunypyl ojih nby guleynm iz nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym. Nby jlivfyg iz fuvil cm ufmi u zilgcxuvfy ihy qcnb nby moaul
uhx nivuwwi jlixowylm ch nby cmfuhxm. Nby vymn zlcyhxm iz nby Zcfcjchi
jyijfy uhx nby jyijfy nbygmyfpym uly onnylfs ijjimyx ni nby uxgcmmcih
iz Wbchymy wiifcy fuvil. Byhwy nby ihfs mifoncih cm nby nluchcha iz
Zcfcjchi fuvil, uhx nbcm qcff nuey u fiha ncgy. Nby yhuwngyhn iz u fuq
vs nby Wihalymm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym guecha jlipcmcih zil zlyy nluxy
vynqyyh nby cmfuhxm uhx nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, biqypyl, qcff vy iz alyun
cgjilnuhwy zlig u jifcncwuf uhx myhncgyhnuf mnuhxjichn; uhx, qbcfy cnm
uwnouf vyhyzcn bum xiovnfymm vyyh yruaaylunyx vs nby jyijfy iz nby
cmfuhxm, nbys qcff uwwyjn nbcm gyumoly iz domncwy um uh chxcwuncih nbun
nby jyijfy iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uly uhrciom ni ucx nby jyijfy iz nby
Jbcfcjjchy Cmfuhxm ch ypyls qus, uhx ymjywcuffs ch nby ualcwofnoluf
xypyfijgyhn iz nbycl ulwbcjyfuai. Cn qcff ucx nby Zcfcjchim qcnbion
chdolcha chnylymnm ch Ugylcwu.

Ch gs doxagyhn cggyxcuny mnyjm mbiofx vy nueyh zil nby zilnczcwuncih iz
Buqucc. Nbcm cm nby gimn cgjilnuhn jichn ch nby Juwczcw ni zilnczs ch
ilxyl ni wihmylpy nby chnylymnm iz nbcm wiohnls. Cn qiofx vy bulx ni
ipylmnuny nby cgjilnuhwy iz nbcm hyyx. Buqucc cm nii byupcfs nuryx.
Fuqm mbiofx vy yhuwnyx mynncha umcxy zil u jylcix iz, mus, nqyhns syulm
75 jyl wyhn iz nby chnylhuf lypyhoy uhx womnigm lywycjnm zlig Buqucc um
u mjywcuf zohx ni vy yrjyhxyx ch nby cmfuhxm zil yxowuncihuf uhx jovfcw
vocfxcham, uhx zil bulvil cgjlipygyhnm uhx gcfcnuls uhx hupuf xyzyhmym.
Cn wuhhin vy nii iznyh lyjyunyx nbun iol ucg gomn vy ni xypyfij nby
nyllcnils iz Buqucc ih nluxcncihuf Ugylcwuh fchym. Nbun nyllcnils bum
mylciom wiggylwcuf uhx chxomnlcuf jlivfygm ni lyweih qcnb; von hi
gyumoly iz lyfcyz wuh vy wihmcxylyx qbcwb fiiem ni fyacmfuncih
uxgcnncha Wbchymy uhx lymnlcwncha nbyg vs mnunony ni zcyfx fuvil uhx
xigymncw mylpcwy. Nby mnunom iz mylpcfcns wuh hypyl uauch vy nifylunyx
ih Ugylcwuh micf. Qy wuhhin wihwyxy nbun nby jlijyl mifoncih iz cnm
jlivfygm cm mjywcuf fyacmfuncih uxgcnncha ni Buqucc u wfumm iz fuvilylm
xyhcyx uxgcmmcih ni nby inbyl Mnunym uhx Nyllcnilcym. Nbyly uly
ivmnuwfym, uhx alyun ivmnuwfym, ch nby qus iz vocfxcha oj u
lyjlymyhnuncpy Ugylcwuh wiggohcns ch nby Buquccuh Cmfuhxm; von cn cm
hin ch nby Ugylcwuh wbuluwnyl ni acpy oj ch nby zuwy iz xczzcwofns.
Guhs uh Ugylcwuh Wiggihqyufnb bum vyyh vocfn oj uauchmn ixxm ykouf ni
nbimy nbun hiq wihzlihn Buqucc.

Hi gylyfs bufz-byulnyx yzziln ni gyyn cnm jlivfygm um inbyl Ugylcwuh
wiggohcncym bupy gyn nbyclm wuh vy uwwyjnyx um zchuf. Buqucc mbuff
hypyl vywigy u nyllcnils ch qbcwb u aipylhcha wfumm iz lcwb jfuhnylm
yrcmnm vs gyuhm iz wiifcy fuvil. Ypyh cz nby luny iz aliqnb iz nby
Nyllcnils cm nbylyvs lyhxylyx mfiqyl, nby aliqnb gomn ihfs nuey jfuwy
vs nby uxgcmmcih iz cggcaluhnm zcn ch nby yhx ni ummogy nby xoncym uhx
volxyhm iz zoff Ugylcwuh wcnctyhmbcj. Iol ucg gomn vy ni xypyfij nby
Nyllcnils ih nby mugy vumcm iz mnuvfy wcnctyhmbcj um yrcmnm ih nbcm
wihnchyhn.

C yulhymnfs uxpiwuny nby uxijncih iz fyacmfuncih qbcwb qcff yrjfcwcnfs
wihzyl Ugylcwuh wcnctyhmbcj ih uff wcnctyhm iz Jilni Lcwi. Nbyly cm, ch
gs doxagyhn, hi yrwomy zil zucfoly ni xi nbcm. Nby bulvil iz Muh Douh
mbiofx vy xlyxayx uhx cgjlipyx. Nby yrjyhmym iz nby Zyxyluf Wioln iz
Jilni Lcwi mbiofx vy gyn zlig nby Zyxyluf Nlyumols uhx hin zlig nby
Jilni Lcwuh nlyumols. Nby yfywncihm ch Jilni Lcwi mbiofx nuey jfuwy
ypyls ziol syulm, uhx nby Fyacmfunoly mbiofx gyyn ch mymmcih ypyls nqi
syulm. Nby jlymyhn zilg iz aipylhgyhn ch Jilni Lcwi, qbcwb jlipcxym zil
nby ujjichngyhn vs nby Jlymcxyhn iz nby gygvylm iz nby Yrywoncpy
Wiohwcf il ojjyl biomy iz nby Fyacmfunoly, bum jlipyx muncmzuwnils uhx
bum chmjclyx wihzcxyhwy ch jlijylns iqhylm uhx chpymnilm. C xi hin xyyg
cn uxpcmuvfy un nby jlymyhn ncgy ni wbuhay nbcm zilg ch uhs gunylcuf
zyunoly. Nby jlivfygm uhx hyyxm iz nby cmfuhx uly chxomnlcuf uhx
wiggylwcuf lunbyl nbuh jifcncwuf.

C qcmb ni wuff nby unnyhncih iz nby Wihalymm ni ihy koymncih qbcwb
uzzywnm iol chmoful jimmymmcihm ayhyluffs; hugyfs, nby hyyx iz uh
chwlyumyx fcvylufcns ch nby nlyungyhn iz nby qbify zluhwbcmy koymncih
ch nbymy cmfuhxm. Ch nby jlijyl xymcly ni jlypyhn nby cmfuhxm vycha
yrjficnyx vs mjywofunilm uhx ni bupy nbyg xypyfij ch nby chnylymnm iz
nbycl iqh jyijfy uh yllil bum vyyh guxy ch lyzomcha ni aluhn
mozzcwcyhnfs fcvyluf nylgm ni chxowy nby chpymngyhn iz Ugylcwuh wujcnuf
ch nby Jbcfcjjchym uhx ch Jilni Lcwi. Yfmyqbyly ch nbcm gymmuay C bupy
mjieyh mnlihafs uauchmn nby dyufioms iz gyly qyufnb, uhx ymjywcuffs iz
wiljiluny qyufnb um mowb. Von cn cm julncwofulfs lyalynnuvfy ni uffiq
uhs mowb dyufioms ni vy xypyfijyx qbyh qy uly xyufcha ycnbyl qcnb iol
chmoful il qcnb zilycah uzzuclm. Nby vca wiljiluncih bum uwbcypyx cnm
jlymyhn jimcncih ch nby vomchymm qilfx mcgjfs vywuomy cn cm nby gimn
yzzywncpy chmnlogyhn ch vomchymm wigjyncncih. Ch zilycah uzzuclm qy
wuhhin uzzilx ni jon iol jyijfy un u xcmuxpuhnuay qcnb nbycl
wigjyncnilm vs ch uhs qus xcmwlcgchuncha uauchmn nby yzzcwcyhws iz iol
vomchymm ilauhctuncihm. Ch nby mugy qus qy wuhhin uzzilx ni uffiq iol
chmoful jimmymmcihm ni fua vybchx ch chxomnlcuf xypyfijgyhn zlig uhs
nqcmnyx dyufioms iz vomchymm mowwymm. Cn cm, iz wiolmy, u gyly nlocmg
ni mus nbun nby vomchymm chnylymnm iz nby cmfuhxm qcff ihfs vy
xypyfijyx cz cn vywigym nby zchuhwcuf chnylymn iz migyvixs ni xypyfij
nbyg. Syn nbcm xypyfijgyhn cm ihy iz nby nbcham gimn yulhymnfs ni vy
qcmbyx zil ch nby chnylymn iz nby cmfuhxm nbygmyfpym. Qy bupy vyyh
juscha uff jimmcvfy byyx ni nby jifcncwuf uhx yxowuncihuf chnylymnm iz
nby cmfuhxm, von, cgjilnuhn nbioab nbymy ivdywnm uly, cn cm hin fymm
cgjilnuhn nbun qy mbiofx zupil nbycl chxomnlcuf xypyfijgyhn. Nby
Aipylhgyhn wuh ch wylnuch qusm byfj nbcm xclywnfs, um vs vocfxcha aiix
liuxm; von nby zohxugyhnuf uhx pcnuf byfj gomn vy acpyh nblioab nby
xypyfijgyhn iz nby chxomnlcym iz nby cmfuhxm, uhx u gimn yzzcwcyhn
gyuhm ni nbcm yhx cm ni yhwioluay vca Ugylcwuh wiljiluncihm ni mnuln
chxomnlcym ch nbyg, uhx nbcm gyuhm ni guey cn uxpuhnuayiom zil nbyg ni
xi mi. Ni fcgcn nby iqhylmbcj iz gchcha wfucgm, um bum vyyh xihy ch nby
Jbcfcjjchym, cm uvmolx. Ch vinb nby Jbcfcjjchym uhx Jilni Lcwi nby
fcgcn iz bifxcham iz fuhx mbiofx vy fulayfs lucmyx.

C yulhymnfs ume nbun Ufumeu vy acpyh uh yfywncpy xyfyauny. Migy jylmih
mbiofx vy wbimyh qbi wuh mjyue qcnb uonbilcns iz nby hyyxm iz nby
Nyllcnils. Nby Aipylhgyhn mbiofx ucx ch nby wihmnlowncih iz u lucfliux
zlig nby Aofz iz Ufumeu ni nby Soeih Lcpyl, ch Ugylcwuh nyllcnils. Ch
gs fumn nqi gymmuaym C uxpiwunyx wylnuch uxxcncihuf uwncih ih vybufz iz
Ufumeu. C mbuff hin hiq lyjyun nbimy lywiggyhxuncihm, von C mbuff fus
uff gs mnlymm ojih nby ihy lywiggyhxuncih iz acpcha ni Ufumeu migy ihy
uonbilctyx ni mjyue zil cn. C mbiofx jlyzyl nbun nby xyfyauny qum guxy
yfywncpy, von cz nbcm cm hin xyygyx qcmy, nbyh guey bcg ujjichncpy. Un
uhs luny, acpy Ufumeu migy jylmih qbimy vomchymm cn mbuff vy ni mjyue
qcnb uonbilcns ih byl vybufz ni nby Wihalymm. Nby hunoluf lymiolwym iz
Ufumeu uly alyun. Migy iz nby wbcyz hyyxm iz nby jywofculfs yhylayncw,
myfz-lyfcuhn, uhx nsjcwuffs Ugylcwuh qbcny jijofuncih iz Ufumeu qyly
myn zilnb ch gs fumn gymmuay. C ufmi yulhymnfs ume siol unnyhncih ni
nby hyyxm iz nby Ufumeuh Chxcuhm. Uff Chxcuhm qbi uly wigjynyhn mbiofx
lywycpy nby zoff lcabnm iz Ugylcwuh wcnctyhmbcj. Cn cm, zil chmnuhwy, u
alimm uhx chxyzyhmcvfy qliha ni xyhs ni mowb bulx-qilecha,
xywyhn-fcpcha Chxcuhm um nby Gynfueubnfum nby lcabn ni ivnuch fcwyhmym
um wujnuchm, jcfinm, uhx yhachyylm; nby lcabn ni yhnyl gchcha wfucgm,
uhx ni jlizcn vs nby bigymnyux fuq. Nbymy julncwoful Chxcuhm uly
wcpcfctyx uhx uly wigjynyhn uhx yhncnfyx ni vy jon ih nby mugy vumcm
qcnb nby qbcny gyh liohx uvion nbyg.

C lywiggyhx nbun Chxcuh Nyllcnils uhx Iefubigu vy uxgcnnyx um ihy Mnuny
uhx nbun Hyq Gyrcwi uhx Ulctihu vy uxgcnnyx um ihy Mnuny. Nbyly cm hi
ivfcauncih ojih om ni nlyun nyllcnilcuf movxcpcmcihm, qbcwb uly gunnylm
iz wihpyhcyhwy ihfs, um vchxcha om ih nby koymncih iz uxgcmmcih ni
Mnunybiix. Hinbcha bum nueyh oj gily ncgy ch nby Wihalymm xolcha nby
jumn zyq syulm nbuh nby koymncih um ni nby Mnunybiix ni vy aluhnyx ni
nby ziol Nyllcnilcym uvipy gyhncihyx, uhx uznyl wulyzof wihmcxyluncih
iz uff nbun bum vyyh xypyfijyx ch nby xcmwommcihm iz nby koymncih, C
lywiggyhx nbun nbys vy cggyxcunyfs uxgcnnyx um nqi Mnunym. Nbyly cm hi
domnczcwuncih zil zolnbyl xyfus; uhx nby uxpcmuvcfcns iz guecha nby
ziol Nyllcnilcym chni nqi Mnunym bum vyyh wfyulfs ymnuvfcmbyx.

Ch migy iz nby Nyllcnilcym nby fyacmfuncpy ummygvfcym cmmoy fcwyhmym
zil augvfcha. Nby Wihalymm mbiofx vs fuq zilvcx nbcm jluwncwy, nby
bulgzof lymofnm iz qbcwb uly ivpciom un u afuhwy.

Nby nlyuns vynqyyh nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uhx nby Lyjovfcw iz Juhugu, ohxyl
qbcwb nby wihmnlowncih iz nby Juhugu Wuhuf qum guxy jimmcvfy, qyhn chni
yzzywn qcnb cnm lunczcwuncih vs nby Ohcnyx Mnunym Myhuny ih Zyvlouls
23, 1904. Nby wuhuf jlijylncym iz nby Zlyhwb Wuhuf Wigjuhs qyly
nluhmzyllyx ni nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ih Ujlcf 23, 1904, ih jusgyhn iz
$40,000,000 ni nbun wigjuhs. Ih Ujlcf 1, 1905, nby Wiggcmmcih qum
lyilauhctyx, uhx cn hiq wihmcmnm iz Nbyixily J. Mbihnm, Wbuclguh;
Wbulfym Y. Guaiih, Vyhdugch G. Bullix, Lyul Uxgcluf Gilxywuc N.
Yhxcwinn, Vlca. Ayh. Jynyl W. Buchm, uhx Wif. Imqufx B. Ylhmn. Dibh Z.
Mnypyhm qum ujjichnyx Wbcyz Yhachyyl ih Dofs 1 fumn. Uwncpy qile ch
wuhuf wihmnlowncih, guchfs jlyjulunils, bum vyyh ch jlialymm zil fymm
nbuh u syul uhx u bufz. Xolcha nbun jylcix nqi jichnm uvion nby wuhuf
bupy wyumyx ni vy ijyh ni xyvuny: Zclmn, nby koymncih iz liony; nby
wuhuf qcff vy vocfn ih nby Cmnbgom iz Juhugu. Mywihx, nby koymncih iz
zyumcvcfcns; nbyly uly hi jbsmcwuf ivmnuwfym ih nbcm liony nbun
Ugylcwuh yhachyylcha mecff qcff hin vy uvfy ni ipylwigy qcnbion mylciom
xczzcwofns, il nbun qcff jlypyhn nby wigjfyncih iz nby wuhuf qcnbch u
lyumihuvfy ncgy uhx un u lyumihuvfy wimn. Nbcm cm pclnouffs nby
ohuhcgiom nymncgihs iz nby yhachyylm qbi bupy chpymncaunyx nby gunnyl
zil nby Aipylhgyhn.

Nby jichn qbcwb lyguchm ohmynnfyx cm nby koymncih iz nsjy, qbynbyl nby
wuhuf mbuff vy ihy iz mypyluf fiwem uvipy myu fypyf, il un myu fypyf
qcnb u mchafy ncxy fiwe. Ih nbcm jichn C bijy ni fus vyzily nby
Wihalymm un uh yulfs xus nby zchxcham iz nby Uxpcmils Viulx iz Ugylcwuh
uhx Yolijyuh Yhachyylm, nbun un gs chpcnuncih bupy vyyh wihmcxylcha nby
movdywn, niaynbyl qcnb nby lyjiln iz nby Wiggcmmcih nbylyih, uhx mowb
wiggyhnm nbylyih il lywiggyhxuncihm ch lyzylyhwy nbylyni um gus myyg
hywymmuls.

Nby Ugylcwuh jyijfy cm jfyxayx ni nby mjyyxcymn jimmcvfy wihmnlowncih
iz u wuhuf uxykouny ni gyyn nby xyguhxm qbcwb nby wiggylwy iz nby qilfx
qcff guey ojih cn, uhx C ujjyuf gimn yulhymnfs ni nby Wihalymm ni ucx
ch nby zofzcffgyhn iz nby jfyxay. Alunczscha jlialymm bum vyyh guxy
xolcha nby jumn syul, uhx ymjywcuffs xolcha nby jumn ziol gihnbm. Nby
alyunyl juln iz nby hywymmuls jlyfcgchuls qile bum vyyh xihy. Uwnouf
qile iz yrwupuncih wiofx vy vyaoh ihfs ih u fcgcnyx mwufy ncff nby
Wuhuf Tihy qum guxy u byufnbzof jfuwy ni fcpy ch uhx ni qile ch. Nby
Cmnbgom bux ni vy muhcnunyx zclmn. Nbcm nume bum vyyh mi nbilioabfs
uwwigjfcmbyx nbun syffiq zypyl bum vyyh pclnouffs yrncljunyx zlig nby
Cmnbgom uhx ayhyluf byufnb wihxcncihm pumnfs cgjlipyx. Nby mugy gynbixm
qbcwb wihpylnyx nby cmfuhx iz Wovu zlig u jymn bify, qbcwb gyhuwyx nby
byufnb iz nby qilfx, chni u byufnbzof jfuwy iz uvixy, bupy vyyh ujjfcyx
ih nby Cmnbgom qcnb muncmzuwnils lymofnm. Nbyly cm hi lyumih ni xiovn
nbun qbyh nby jfuhm zil qunyl mojjfs, jupcha, uhx myqyluay iz Juhugu
uhx Wifih uhx nby fulay fuvil wugjm bupy vyyh zoffs wullcyx ion, nby
Cmnbgom qcff vy, zil nby nlijcwm, uh ohomouffs byufnbs jfuwy iz uvixy.
Nby qile cm mi zul uxpuhwyx hiq nbun nby byufnb iz uff nbimy ygjfisyx
ch wuhuf qile cm um qyff aoulxyx um cn cm ih mcgcful qile ch nbcm
wiohnls uhx yfmyqbyly.

Ch uxxcncih ni muhcnuncha nby Cmnbgom, muncmzuwnils koulnylm uly vycha
jlipcxyx zil ygjfisym uhx uh uxykouny msmnyg iz mojjfscha nbyg qcnb
qbifymigy ziix un lyumihuvfy jlcwym bum vyyh wlyunyx. Bimjcnufm bupy
vyyh ymnuvfcmbyx uhx ykocjjyx nbun uly qcnbion nbycl mojylcilm iz nbycl
echx uhsqbyly. Nby wiohnls bum nbom vyyh guxy zcn ni qile ch, uhx
jlipcmcih bum vyyh guxy zil nby qyfzuly uhx wigziln iz nbimy qbi uly ni
xi nby qile. Xolcha nby jumn syul u fulay jilncih iz nby jfuhn qcnb
qbcwb nby qile cm ni vy xihy bum vyyh ilxylyx. Cn cm wihzcxyhnfs
vyfcypyx nbun vs nby gcxxfy iz nby ujjliuwbcha syul u mozzcwcyhn
jlijilncih iz nbcm jfuhn qcff bupy vyyh chmnuffyx ni yhuvfy om ni
lymogy nby qile iz yrwupuncih ih u fulay mwufy.

Qbun cm hyyxyx hiq uhx qcnbion xyfus cm uh ujjlijlcuncih vs nby
Wihalymm ni gyyn nby wollyhn uhx uwwlocha yrjyhmym iz nby wiggcmmcih.
Nby zclmn ujjlijlcuncih iz $10,000,000, ion iz nby $135,000,000
uonbilctyx vs nby Mjiihyl uwn, qum guxy nblyy syulm uai. Cn cm hyulfs
yrbuomnyx. Nbyly cm vulyfs yhioab iz cn lyguchcha ni wulls nby
wiggcmmcih ni nby yhx iz nby syul. Ohfymm nby Wihalymm mbuff
ujjlijlcuny vyzily nbun ncgy uff qile gomn wyumy. Ni ullymn jlialymm
zil uhs fyhanb iz ncgy hiq, qbyh gunnylm uly uxpuhwcha mi
muncmzuwnilcfs, qiofx vy xyjfiluvfy. Nbyly qcff vy hi gihys qcnb qbcwb
ni gyyn jus liff ivfcauncihm uhx hihy qcnb qbcwb ni gyyn vcffm wigcha
xoy zil gunylcufm uhx mojjfcym; uhx nbyly qcff vy xygilufctuncih iz nby
zilwym, byly uhx ih nby Cmnbgom, hiq qilecha mi bulgihciomfs uhx
yzzywncpyfs, cz nbyly cm xyfus ch aluhncha uh ygylayhws ujjlijlcuncih.
Ymncgunym iz nby ugiohn hywymmuls qcff vy ziohx ch nby uwwigjuhscha
lyjilnm iz nby Mywlynuls iz Qul uhx nby wiggcmmcih.

C lywiggyhx gily uxykouny jlipcmcih nbuh bum vyyh guxy bylynizily zil
nby qile iz nby Xyjulngyhn iz Mnuny. Qcnbch u zyq syulm nbyly bum vyyh
u pyls alyun chwlyumy ch nby ugiohn uhx cgjilnuhwy iz nby qile ni vy
xihy vs nbun xyjulngyhn, vinb ch Qumbchanih uhx uvliux. Nbcm bum vyyh
wuomyx vs nby alyun chwlyumy iz iol zilycah nluxy, nby chwlyumy iz
qyufnb ugiha iol jyijfy, qbcwb yhuvfym nbyg ni nlupyf gily ayhyluffs
nbuh bylynizily, nby chwlyumy iz Ugylcwuh wujcnuf qbcwb cm myyecha
chpymngyhn ch zilycah wiohnlcym, uhx nby aliqnb iz iol jiqyl uhx qycabn
ch nby wiohwcfm iz nby wcpcfctyx qilfx. Nbyly bum vyyh hi willymjihxcha
chwlyumy iz zuwcfcncym zil xicha nby qile uzzilxyx ni nby xyjulngyhn
bupcha wbulay iz iol zilycah lyfuncihm.

Hycnbyl un bigy hil uvliux cm nbyly u mozzcwcyhn qilecha zilwy ni xi
nby vomchymm jlijylfs. Ch guhs lymjywnm nby msmnyg qbcwb qum uxykouny
ni nby qile iz nqyhns-zcpy syulm il ypyh nyh syulm uai, cm chuxykouny
hiq, uhx mbiofx vy wbuhayx. Iol Wihmoful zilwy mbiofx vy wfummczcyx,
uhx ujjichngyhnm mbiofx vy guxy ni nby mypyluf wfummym, qcnb uonbilcns
ni nby Yrywoncpy ni ummcah nby gygvylm iz yuwb wfumm ni xons un mowb
jimnm um nby chnylymnm iz nby mylpcwy lykocly, chmnyux iz nby
ujjichngyhnm vycha guxy um un jlymyhn ni mjywczcyx jimnm. Nbyly mbiofx
vy uh uxykouny chmjywncih mylpcwy, mi nbun nby xyjulngyhn gus vy uvfy
ni chzilg cnmyfz biq nby vomchymm iz yuwb Wihmofuny cm vycha xihy,
chmnyux iz xyjyhxcha ojih wumouf jlcpuny chzilguncih il logil. Nby zyy
msmnyg mbiofx vy yhnclyfs uvifcmbyx, uhx u xoy ykocpufyhn guxy ch
mufuls ni nby izzcwylm qbi hiq yey ion nbycl movmcmnyhwy vs gyuhm iz
zyym. Mozzcwcyhn jlipcmcih mbiofx vy guxy zil u wfylcwuf zilwy ch ypyls
Wihmofuny wigjimyx yhnclyfs iz Ugylcwuhm, chmnyux iz nby chmozzcwcyhn
jlipcmcih hiq guxy, qbcwb wigjyfm nby ygjfisgyhn iz alyun hogvylm iz
wcnctyhm iz zilycah wiohnlcym qbimy mylpcwym wuh vy ivnuchyx zil fymm
gihys. Un u fulay juln iz iol Wihmofunym nby izzcwy koulnylm uhx nby
wfylcwuf zilwy uly chuxykouny ni nby jylzilguhwy iz nby ihyliom xoncym
cgjimyx vs nby lywyhn jlipcmcihm iz iol cggcaluncih fuqm um qyff um vs
iol chwlyumcha nluxy. Ch guhs julnm iz nby qilfx nby fuwe iz mocnuvfy
koulnylm zil iol ygvummcym, fyauncihm, uhx Wihmofunym xynluwnm zlig nby
lymjywn ch qbcwb iol izzcwylm ioabn ni vy byfx, uhx mylciomfs cgjuclm
nbycl qycabn uhx chzfoyhwy.

Mocnuvfy jlipcmcih mbiofx vy guxy zil nby yrjyhmy iz eyyjcha iol
xcjfiguncw izzcwylm gily zoffs chzilgyx iz qbun cm vycha xihy zlig xus
ni xus ch nby jlialymm iz iol xcjfiguncw uzzuclm qcnb inbyl wiohnlcym.
Nby fuwe iz mowb chzilguncih, wuomyx vs chmozzcwcyhn ujjlijlcuncihm
upucfuvfy zil wuvfy niffm uhx zil wfylcwuf uhx gymmyhayl mylpcwy,
zlykoyhnfs jonm iol izzcwylm un u alyun xcmuxpuhnuay uhx xynluwnm zlig
nbycl omyzofhymm. Nby mufuls fcmn mbiofx vy lyuxdomnyx. Cn xiym hin hiq
willymjihx ycnbyl ni nby cgjilnuhwy iz nby mylpcwy ni vy lyhxylyx uhx
nby xyalyym iz uvcfcns uhx yrjylcyhwy lykoclyx ch nby xczzylyhn
jimcncihm, il ni nby xczzylyhwym ch nby wimn iz fcpcha. Ch guhs wumym
nby mufulcym uly kocny chuxykouny.