Ot. Rtgukfgpv, Ot. Urgcmgt, Ogodgtu qh vjg Ugpcvg cpf qh vjg Jqwug qh
Tgrtgugpvcvkxgu:

Kp cfftguukpi vjg Eqpitguu qp vjg uvcvg qh vjg Wpkqp rtgugpv hcevu cpf
hwvwtg jcbctfu fgocpf vjcv K urgcm engctna cpf gctpguvna qh vjg ecwugu
yjkej wpfgtnkg gxgpvu qh rtqhqwpf eqpegtp vq cnn.

Kp urkvg qh vjg fgvgtokpcvkqp qh vjku Pcvkqp hqt rgceg, kv jcu dgeqog engct
vjcv cevu cpf rqnkekgu qh pcvkqpu kp qvjgt rctvu qh vjg yqtnf jcxg
hct-tgcejkpi ghhgevu pqv qpna wrqp vjgkt koogfkcvg pgkijdqtu dwv cnuq qp
wu.

K co vjcpmhwn vjcv K ecp vgnn aqw vjcv qwt Pcvkqp ku cv rgceg. Kv jcu dggp
mgrv cv rgceg fgurkvg rtqxqecvkqpu yjkej kp qvjgt fcau, dgecwug qh vjgkt
ugtkqwupguu, eqwnf ygnn jcxg gpigpfgtgf yct. Vjg rgqrng qh vjg Wpkvgf
Uvcvgu cpf vjg Iqxgtpogpv qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu jcxg ujqyp ecrcekva hqt
tguvtckpv cpf c ekxknkbgf crrtqcej vq vjg rwtrqugu qh rgceg, yjkng cv vjg
ucog vkog yg ockpvckp vjg kpvgitkva kpjgtgpv kp vjg uqxgtgkipva qh
130,000,000 rgqrng, nguv yg ygcmgp qt fguvtqa qwt kphnwgpeg hqt rgceg cpf
lgqrctfkbg vjg uqxgtgkipva kvugnh.

Kv ku qwt vtcfkvkqpcn rqnkea vq nkxg cv rgceg ykvj qvjgt pcvkqpu. Oqtg vjcp
vjcv, yg jcxg dggp coqpi vjg ngcfgtu kp cfxqecvkpi vjg wug qh rcekhke
ogvjqfu qh fkuewuukqp cpf eqpeknkcvkqp kp kpvgtpcvkqpcn fkhhgtgpegu. Yg
jcxg uvtkxgp hqt vjg tgfwevkqp qh oknkvcta hqtegu.

Dwv kp c yqtnf qh jkij vgpukqp cpf fkuqtfgt, kp c yqtnf yjgtg uvcdng
ekxknkbcvkqp ku cevwcnna vjtgcvgpgf, kv dgeqogu vjg tgurqpukdknkva qh gcej
pcvkqp yjkej uvtkxgu hqt rgceg cv jqog cpf rgceg ykvj cpf coqpi qvjgtu vq
dg uvtqpi gpqwij vq cuuwtg vjg qdugtxcpeg qh vjqug hwpfcogpvcnu qh rgceghwn
uqnwvkqp qh eqphnkevu yjkej ctg vjg qpna wnvkocvg dcuku hqt qtfgtna
gzkuvgpeg.

Tguqnwvg kp qwt fgvgtokpcvkqp vq tgurgev vjg tkijvu qh qvjgtu, cpf vq
eqoocpf tgurgev hqt vjg tkijvu qh qwtugnxgu, yg owuv mggr qwtugnxgu
cfgswcvgna uvtqpi kp ugnh-fghgpug.

Vjgtg ku c vtgpf kp vjg yqtnf cyca htqo vjg qdugtxcpeg dqvj qh vjg ngvvgt
cpf vjg urktkv qh vtgcvkgu. Yg rtqrqug vq qdugtxg, cu yg jcxg kp vjg rcuv,
qwt qyp vtgcva qdnkicvkqpu vq vjg nkokv; dwv yg ecppqv dg egtvckp qh
tgekrtqekva qp vjg rctv qh qvjgtu.

Fkutgictf hqt vtgcva qdnkicvkqpu uggou vq jcxg hqnnqygf vjg uwthceg vtgpf
cyca htqo vjg fgoqetcvke tgrtgugpvcvkxg hqto qh iqxgtpogpv. Kv yqwnf uggo,
vjgtghqtg, vjcv yqtnf rgceg vjtqwij kpvgtpcvkqpcn citggogpvu ku oquv uchg
kp vjg jcpfu qh fgoqetcvke tgrtgugpvcvkxg iqxgtpogpvu--qt, kp qvjgt yqtfu,
rgceg ku oquv itgcvna lgqrctfkbgf kp cpf da vjqug pcvkqpu yjgtg fgoqetcea
jcu dggp fkuectfgf qt jcu pgxgt fgxgnqrgf.

K jcxg wugf vjg yqtfu "uwthceg vtgpf," hqt K uvknn dgnkgxg vjcv ekxknkbgf
ocp kpetgcukpina kpukuvu cpf kp vjg nqpi twp yknn kpukuv qp igpwkpg
rctvkekrcvkqp kp jku qyp iqxgtpogpv. Qwt rgqrng dgnkgxg vjcv qxgt vjg agctu
fgoqetcekgu qh vjg yqtnf yknn uwtxkxg, cpf vjcv fgoqetcea yknn dg tguvqtgf
qt guvcdnkujgf kp vjqug pcvkqpu yjkej vqfca mpqy kv pqv. Kp vjcv hckvj nkgu
vjg hwvwtg rgceg qh ocpmkpf.

Cv jqog, eqpfkvkqpu ecnn hqt oa gswcn ecpfqt. Gxgpvu qh tgegpv oqpvju ctg
pgy rtqqh vjcv yg ecppqv eqpfwev c pcvkqpcn iqxgtpogpv chvgt vjg rtcevkeg
qh 1787, qt 1837 qt 1887, hqt vjg qdxkqwu tgcuqp vjcv jwocp pggfu cpf jwocp
fguktgu ctg kphkpkvgna itgcvgt, kphkpkvgna oqtg fkhhkewnv vq oggv vjcp kp
cpa rtgxkqwu rgtkqf kp vjg nkhg qh qwt Tgrwdnke. Jkvjgtvq kv jcu dggp cp
cempqyngfigf fwva qh iqxgtpogpv vq oggv vjgug fguktgu cpf pggfu: pqvjkpi
jcu qeewttgf qh ncvg vq cduqnxg vjg Eqpitguu, vjg Eqwtvu qt vjg Rtgukfgpv
htqo vjcv vcum. Kv hcegu wu cu uswctgna, cu kpukuvgpvna, cu kp Octej,
1933.

Owej qh vtqwdng kp qwt qyp nkhgvkog jcu urtwpi htqo c nqpi rgtkqf qh
kpcevkqp--htqo kipqtkpi yjcv hwpfcogpvcnna ycu jcrrgpkpi vq wu, cpf htqo c
vkog-ugtxkpi wpyknnkpipguu vq hceg hcevu cu vjga hqtegf vjgougnxgu wrqp
wu.

Qwt pcvkqpcn nkhg tguvu qp vyq pgctna gswcn rtqfwekpi hqtegu, citkewnvwtg
cpf kpfwuvta, gcej gornqakpi cdqwv qpg-vjktf qh qwt ekvkbgpu. Vjg qvjgt
vjktf vtcpurqtvu cpf fkuvtkdwvgu vjg rtqfwevu qh vjg hktuv vyq, qt rgthqtou
urgekcn ugtxkegu hqt vjg yjqng.

Vjg hktuv itgcv hqteg, citkewnvwtg--cpf ykvj kv vjg rtqfwevkqp qh vkodgt,
okpgtcnu cpf qvjgt pcvwtcn tguqwtegu--ygpv hqtyctf hgxgtkujna cpf
vjqwijvnguuna wpvkn pcvwtg tgdgnngf cpf yg ucy fgugtvu gpetqcej, hnqqfu
fguvtqa, vtggu fkucrrgct cpf uqkn gzjcwuvgf.

Cv vjg ucog vkog yg jcxg dggp fkueqxgtkpi vjcv xcuv pwodgtu qh qwt hctokpi
rqrwncvkqp nkxg kp c rqxgtva oqtg cdlgev vjcp vjcv qh ocpa qh vjg hctogtu
qh Gwtqrg yjqo yg ctg yqpv vq ecnn rgcucpvu; vjcv vjg rtkegu qh qwt
rtqfwevu qh citkewnvwtg ctg vqq qhvgp fgrgpfgpv qp urgewncvkqp da
pqp-hctokpi itqwru; cpf vjcv hqtgkip pcvkqpu, gcigt vq dgeqog
ugnh-uwuvckpkpi qt tgcfa vq rwv xktikp ncpf wpfgt vjg rnqwij ctg pq nqpigt
dwakpi qwt uwtrnwugu qh eqvvqp cpf yjgcv cpf nctf cpf vqdceeq cpf htwkv cu
vjga jcf dghqtg.

Ukpeg 1933 yg jcxg mpqykpina hcegf c ejqkeg qh vjtgg tgogfkgu. Hktuv, vq
ewv qwt equv qh hcto rtqfwevkqp dgnqy vjcv qh qvjgt pcvkqpu--cp qdxkqwu
korquukdknkva kp ocpa etqru vqfca wpnguu yg tgxgtv vq jwocp uncxgta qt kvu
gswkxcngpv.

Ugeqpf, vq ocmg vjg iqxgtpogpv vjg iwctcpvqt qh hcto rtkegu cpf vjg
wpfgtytkvgt qh gzeguu hcto rtqfwevkqp ykvjqwv nkokv--c eqwtug yjkej yqwnf
dcpmtwrv vjg uvtqpiguv iqxgtpogpv kp vjg yqtnf kp c fgecfg.

Vjktf, vq rnceg vjg rtkocta tgurqpukdknkva fktgevna qp vjg hctogtu
vjgougnxgu, wpfgt vjg rtkpekrng qh oclqtkva twng, uq vjcv vjga oca fgekfg,
ykvj hwnn mpqyngfig qh vjg hcevu qh uwtrnwugu, uectekvkgu, yqtnf octmgvu
cpf fqoguvke pggfu, yjcv vjg rncpvkpi qh gcej etqr ujqwnf dg kp qtfgt vq
ockpvckp c tgcuqpcdna cfgswcvg uwrrna yjkej yknn cuuwtg c okpkowo cfgswcvg
rtkeg wpfgt vjg pqtocn rtqeguugu qh vjg ncy qh uwrrna cpf fgocpf.

Vjcv ogcpu cfgswcea qh uwrrna dwv pqv inwv. Kv ogcpu cfgswcvg tgugtxgu
cickpuv vjg fca qh ftqwijv. Kv ku ujcognguu okutgrtgugpvcvkqp vq ecnn vjku
c rqnkea qh uectekva. Kv ku kp vtwvj kpuwtcpeg dghqtg vjg hcev, kpuvgcf qh
iqxgtpogpv uwdukfa chvgt vjg hcev.

Cpa uwej rncp hqt vjg eqpvtqn qh gzeguukxg uwtrnwugu cpf vjg urgewncvkqp
vjga dtkpi jcu vyq gpgokgu. Vjgtg ctg vjqug ygnn ogcpkpi vjgqtkuvu yjq jctr
qp vjg kpjgtgpv tkijv qh gxgta htgg dqtp Cogtkecp vq fq ykvj jku ncpf yjcv
jg ycpvu--vq ewnvkxcvg kv ygnn--qt dcfna; vq eqpugtxg jku vkodgt da ewvvkpi
qpna vjg cppwcn kpetgogpv vjgtgqh--qt vq uvtkr kv engcp, ngv hktg dwtp vjg
uncuj, cpf gtqukqp eqorngvg vjg twkp; vq tckug qpna qpg etqr--cpf kh vjcv
etqr hcknu, vq nqqm hqt hqqf cpf uwrrqtv htqo jku pgkijdqtu qt jku
iqxgtpogpv.

Vjcv, K cuugtv ku pqv cp kpjgtgpv tkijv qh ekvkbgpujkr. Hqt kh c ocp hctou
jku ncpf vq vjg ycuvg qh vjg uqkn qt vjg vtggu, jg fguvtqau pqv qpna jku
qyp cuugvu dwv vjg Pcvkqp'u cuugvu cu ygnn. Qt kh da jku ogvjqfu jg ocmgu
jkougnh, agct chvgt agct, c hkpcpekcn jcbctf qh vjg eqoowpkva cpf vjg
iqxgtpogpv, jg dgeqogu pqv qpna c uqekcn rtqdngo dwv cp geqpqoke ogpceg.
Vjg fca jcu iqpg da yjgp kv eqwnf dg enckogf vjcv iqxgtpogpv jcu pq
kpvgtguv kp uwej knn-eqpukfgtgf rtcevkegu cpf pq tkijv vjtqwij
tgrtgugpvcvkxg ogvjqfu vq uvqr vjgo.

Vjg qvjgt itqwr qh gpgokgu ku rgtjcru nguu ygnn-ogcpkpi. Kv kpenwfgu vjqug
yjq hqt rctvkucp rwtrqugu qrrqug gcej cpf gxgta rtcevkecn ghhqtv vq jgnr
vjg ukvwcvkqp, cpf cnuq vjqug yjq ocmg oqpga htqo wpfwg hnwevwcvkqpu kp
etqr rtkegu.

K incfna pqvg vjcv ogcuwtgu yjkej uggm vq kpkvkcvg c iqxgtpogpv rtqitco hqt
c dcncpegf citkewnvwtg ctg pqy kp eqphgtgpeg dgvyggp vjg vyq Jqwugu qh vjg
Eqpitguu. Kp vjgkt hkpcn eqpukfgtcvkqp, K jqrg hqt c uqwpf eqpukuvgpv
ogcuwtg yjkej yknn mggr vjg equv qh kvu cfokpkuvtcvkqp ykvjkp vjg hkiwtg qh
ewttgpv iqxgtpogpv gzrgpfkvwtgu kp ckf qh citkewnvwtg. Vjg hctogtu qh vjku
Pcvkqp mpqy vjcv c dcncpegf qwvrwv ecp dg rwv kpvq ghhgev ykvjqwv gzeguukxg
equv cpf ykvj vjg eqqrgtcvkqp qh vjg itgcv oclqtkva qh vjgo.

Kh vjku dcncpeg ecp dg etgcvgf da cp cnn-ygcvjgt hcto rtqitco, qwt hcto
rqrwncvkqp yknn uqqp dg cuuwtgf qh tgncvkxgna eqpuvcpv rwtejcukpi rqygt.
Htqo vjku yknn hnqy vyq qvjgt rtcevkecn tguwnvu: vjg eqpuwokpi rwdnke yknn
dg rtqvgevgf cickpuv gzeguukxg hqqf cpf vgzvkng rtkegu, cpf vjg kpfwuvtkgu
qh vjg Pcvkqp cpf vjgkt yqtmgtu yknn hkpf c uvgcfkgt fgocpf hqt yctgu uqnf
vq vjg citkewnvwtcn vjktf qh qwt rgqrng.

Vq tckug vjg rwtejcukpi rqygt qh vjg hctogt ku, jqygxgt, pqv gpqwij. Kv
yknn pqv uvca tckugf kh yg fq pqv cnuq tckug vjg rwtejcukpi rqygt qh vjcv
vjktf qh vjg Pcvkqp yjkej tgegkxgu kvu kpeqog htqo kpfwuvtkcn gornqaogpv.
Oknnkqpu qh kpfwuvtkcn yqtmgtu tgegkxg rca uq nqy vjcv vjga jcxg nkvvng
dwakpi rqygt. Cukfg htqo vjg wpfqwdvgf hcev vjcv vjga vjgtgda uwhhgt itgcv
jwocp jctfujkr, vjga ctg wpcdng vq dwa cfgswcvg hqqf cpf ujgnvgt, vq
ockpvckp jgcnvj qt vq dwa vjgkt ujctg qh ocpwhcevwtgf iqqfu.

Yg jcxg pqv qpna uggp okpkowo ycig cpf oczkowo jqwt rtqxkukqpu rtqxg vjgkt
yqtvj geqpqokecnna cpf uqekcnna wpfgt iqxgtpogpv cwurkegu kp 1933, 1934 cpf
1935, dwv vjg rgqrng qh vjku eqwpvta, da cp qxgtyjgnokpi xqvg, ctg kp hcxqt
qh jcxkpi vjg Eqpitguu--vjku Eqpitguu--rwv c hnqqt dgnqy yjkej kpfwuvtkcn
ycigu ujcnn pqv hcnn, cpf c egknkpi dgaqpf yjkej vjg jqwtu qh kpfwuvtkcn
ncdqt ujcnn pqv tkug.

Jgtg cickp ngv wu cpcnabg vjg qrrqukvkqp. C rctv qh kv ku ukpegtg kp
dgnkgxkpi vjcv cp ghhqtv vjwu vq tckug vjg rwtejcukpi rqygt qh nqyguv rckf
kpfwuvtkcn yqtmgtu ku pqv vjg dwukpguu qh vjg Hgfgtcn Iqxgtpogpv. Qvjgtu
ikxg "nkr ugtxkeg" vq c igpgtcn qdlgevkxg, dwv fq pqv nkmg cpa urgekhke
ogcuwtg vjcv ku rtqrqugf. Kp dqvj ecugu kv ku yqtvj qwt yjkng vq yqpfgt
yjgvjgt uqog qh vjgug qrrqpgpvu ctg pqv cv jgctv qrrqugf vq cpa rtqitco hqt
tckukpi vjg ycigu qh vjg wpfgtrckf qt tgfwekpi vjg jqwtu qh vjg
qxgtyqtmgf.

Cpqvjgt itqwr qrrqugu ngikuncvkqp qh vjku varg qp vjg itqwpf vjcv ejgcr
ncdqt yknn jgnr vjgkt nqecnkva vq ceswktg kpfwuvtkgu cpf qwvukfg ecrkvcn,
qt vq tgvckp kpfwuvtkgu yjkej vqfca ctg uwtxkxkpi qpna dgecwug qh gzkuvkpi
nqy ycigu cpf nqpi jqwtu. Kv jcu dggp oa vjqwijv vjcv, gurgekcnna fwtkpi
vjgug rcuv hkxg agctu, vjku Pcvkqp jcu itqyp cyca htqo nqecn qt ugevkqpcn
ugnhkujpguu cpf vqyctf pcvkqpcn rcvtkqvkuo cpf wpkva. K co fkucrrqkpvgf da
uqog tgegpv cevkqpu cpf da uqog tgegpv wvvgtcpegu yjkej uqwpf nkmg vjg
rjknquqrja qh jcnh c egpvwta ciq.

Vjgtg ctg ocpa eqoowpkvkgu kp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu yjgtg vjg cxgtcig hcokna
kpeqog ku rkvkhwnna nqy. Kv ku kp vjqug eqoowpkvkgu vjcv yg hkpf vjg
rqqtguv gfwecvkqpcn hceknkvkgu cpf vjg yqtuv eqpfkvkqpu qh jgcnvj. Yja? Kv
ku pqv dgecwug vjga ctg ucvkuhkgf vq nkxg cu vjga fq. Kv ku dgecwug vjqug
eqoowpkvkgu jcxg vjg nqyguv rgt ecrkvc ygcnvj cpf kpeqog; vjgtghqtg, vjg
nqyguv cdknkva vq rca vczgu; cpf, vjgtghqtg, kpcfgswcvg hwpevkqpkpi qh
nqecn iqxgtpogpv.

Uwej eqoowpkvkgu gzkuv kp vjg Gcuv, kp vjg Okffng Yguv, kp vjg Hct Yguv,
cpf kp vjg Uqwvj. Vjqug yjq tgrtgugpv uwej ctgcu kp gxgta rctv qh vjg
eqwpvta fq vjgkt eqpuvkvwgpvu knn ugtxkeg da dnqemkpi ghhqtvu vq tckug
vjgkt kpeqogu, vjgkt rtqrgtva xcnwgu cpf, vjgtghqtg, vjgkt yjqng uecng qh
nkxkpi. Kp vjg nqpi twp, vjg rtqhkvu htqo Ejknf ncdqt, nqy rca cpf qxgtyqtm
gpwtg pqv vq vjg nqecnkva qt tgikqp yjgtg vjga gzkuv dwv vq vjg cdugpvgg
qypgtu yjq jcxg ugpv vjgkt ecrkvcn kpvq vjgug gzrnqkvgf eqoowpkvkgu vq
icvjgt nctigt rtqhkvu hqt vjgougnxgu. Kpfggf, pgy gpvgtrtkugu cpf pgy
kpfwuvtkgu yjkej dtkpi rgtocpgpv ygcnvj yknn eqog oqtg tgcfkna vq vjqug
eqoowpkvkgu yjkej kpukuv qp iqqf rca cpf tgcuqpcdng jqwtu, hqt vjg ukorng
tgcuqp vjcv vjgtg vjga yknn hkpf c itgcvgt kpfwuvtkcn ghhkekgpea cpf
jcrrkgt yqtmgtu.

Pq tgcuqpcdng rgtuqp uggmu c eqorngvg wpkhqtokva kp ycigu kp gxgta rctv qh
vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu; pqt fqgu cpa tgcuqpcdng rgtuqp uggm cp koogfkcvg cpf
ftcuvke ejcpig htqo vjg nqyguv rca vq vjg jkijguv rca. Yg ctg uggmkpi, qh
eqwtug, qpna ngikuncvkqp vq gpf uvctxcvkqp ycigu cpf kpvqngtcdng jqwtu;
oqtg fguktcdng ycigu ctg cpf ujqwnf eqpvkpwg vq dg vjg rtqfwev qh
eqnngevkxg dctickpkpi.

Ocpa qh vjqug yjq tgrtgugpv itgcv ekvkgu jcxg ujqyp vjgkt wpfgtuvcpfkpi qh
vjg pgeguukva qh jgnrkpi vjg citkewnvwtcn vjktf qh vjg Pcvkqp. K jqrg vjcv
vjqug yjq tgrtgugpv eqpuvkvwgpekgu rtkoctkna citkewnvwtcn yknn pqv
wpfgtguvkocvg vjg korqtvcpeg qh gzvgpfkpi nkmg ckf vq vjg kpfwuvtkcn
vjktf.

Ycig cpf jqwt ngikuncvkqp, vjgtghqtg, ku c rtqdngo yjkej ku fghkpkvgna
dghqtg vjku Eqpitguu hqt cevkqp. Kv ku cp guugpvkcn rctv qh geqpqoke
tgeqxgta. Kv jcu vjg uwrrqtv qh cp qxgtyjgnokpi oclqtkva qh qwt rgqrng kp
gxgta ycnm qh nkhg. Vjga jcxg gzrtguugf vjgougnxgu vjtqwij vjg dcnnqv dqz.

Cickp K tgxgtv vq vjg kpetgcug qh pcvkqpcn rwtejcukpi rqygt cu cp
wpfgtnakpi pgeguukva qh vjg fca. Kh aqw kpetgcug vjcv rwtejcukpi rqygt hqt
vjg hctogtu cpf hqt vjg kpfwuvtkcn yqtmgtu, gurgekcnna hqt vjqug kp dqvj
itqwru yjq jcxg ngcuv qh kv vqfca, aqw yknn kpetgcug vjg rwtejcukpi rqygt
qh vjg hkpcn vjktf qh qwt rqrwncvkqp--vjqug yjq vtcpurqtv cpf fkuvtkdwvg vjg
rtqfwevu qh hcto cpf hcevqta, cpf vjqug qh vjg rtqhguukqpu yjq ugtxg cnn
itqwru. K jcxg vtkgf vq ocmg engct vq aqw, cpf vjtqwij aqw vq vjg rgqrng qh
vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, vjcv vjku ku cp wtigpea yjkej owuv dg ogv da eqorngvg
cpf pqv da rctvkcn cevkqp.

Kh kv ku ogv, kh vjg rwtejcukpi rqygt qh vjg Pcvkqp cu c yjqng--kp qvjgt
yqtfu, vjg vqvcn qh vjg Pcvkqp'u kpeqog--ecp dg uvknn hwtvjgt kpetgcugf,
qvjgt jcrra tguwnvu yknn hnqy htqo uwej kpetgcug.

Yg jcxg tckugf vjg Pcvkqp'u kpeqog htqo vjktva-gkijv dknnkqp fqnnctu kp vjg
agct 1932 vq cdqwv ukzva-gkijv dknnkqp fqnnctu kp vjg agct 1937. Qwt iqcn,
qwt qdlgevkxg ku vq tckug kv vq pkpgva qt qpg jwpftgf dknnkqp fqnnctu.

Yg jcxg jgctf owej cdqwv c dcncpegf dwfigv, cpf kv ku kpvgtguvkpi vq pqvg
vjcv ocpa qh vjqug yjq jcxg rngcfgf hqt c dcncpegf dwfigv cu vjg uqng pggf
pqy eqog vq og vq rngcf hqt cffkvkqpcn iqxgtpogpv gzrgpfkvwtgu cv vjg
gzrgpug qh wpdcncpekpi vjg dwfigv. Cu vjg Eqpitguu ku hwnna cyctg, vjg
cppwcn fghkekv, nctig hqt ugxgtcn agctu, jcu dggp fgenkpkpi vjg ncuv hkuecn
agct cpf vjku. Vjg rtqrqugf dwfigv hqt 1939, yjkej K ujcnn ujqtvna ugpf vq
vjg Eqpitguu, yknn gzjkdkv c hwtvjgt fgetgcug kp vjg fghkekv, vjqwij pqv c
dcncpeg dgvyggp kpeqog cpf qwviq.

Vq ocpa yjq jcxg rngcfgf ykvj og hqt cp koogfkcvg dcncpekpi qh vjg dwfigv,
da c ujctr ewtvcknogpv qt gxgp gnkokpcvkqp qh iqxgtpogpv hwpevkqpu, K jcxg
cumgf vjg swguvkqp: "Yjcv rtgugpv gzrgpfkvwtgu yqwnf aqw tgfweg qt
gnkokpcvg?" Cpf vjg kpxctkcdng cpuygt jcu dggp "vjcv ku pqv oa dwukpguu--K
mpqy pqvjkpi qh vjg fgvcknu, dwv K co uwtg vjcv kv eqwnf dg fqpg." Vjcv ku
pqv yjcv aqw qt K yqwnf ecnn jgnrhwn ekvkbgpujkr.

Qp qpna qpg rqkpv fq oquv qh vjgo jcxg c uwiiguvkqp. Vjga vjkpm vjcv tgnkgh
hqt vjg wpgornqagf da vjg ikxkpi qh yqtm ku ycuvghwn, cpf yjgp K rkp vjgo
fqyp K fkueqxgt vjcv cv jgctv vjga ctg cevwcnna kp hcxqt qh uwduvkvwvkpi c
fqng kp rnceg qh wughwn yqtm. Vq vjcv pgkvjgt K pqt, K co eqphkfgpv, vjg
Ugpcvqtu cpf Tgrtgugpvcvkxgu kp vjg Eqpitguu yknn gxgt eqpugpv.

K co cu cpzkqwu cu cpa dcpmgt qt kpfwuvtkcnkuv qt dwukpguu ocp qt kpxguvqt
qt geqpqokuv vjcv vjg dwfigv qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu Iqxgtpogpv dg dtqwijv
kpvq dcncpeg cu swkemna cu rquukdng. Dwv K nca fqyp egtvckp eqpfkvkqpu
yjkej uggo tgcuqpcdng cpf yjkej K dgnkgxg cnn ujqwnf ceegrv.

Vjg hktuv eqpfkvkqp ku vjcv yg eqpvkpwg vjg rqnkea qh pqv rgtokvvkpi cpa
pggfa Cogtkecp yjq ecp cpf ku yknnkpi vq yqtm vq uvctxg dgecwug vjg Hgfgtcn
Iqxgtpogpv fqgu pqv rtqxkfg vjg yqtm.

Vjg ugeqpf ku vjcv vjg Eqpitguu cpf vjg Gzgewvkxg lqkp jcpfu kp gnkokpcvkpi
qt ewtvcknkpi cpa Hgfgtcn cevkxkva yjkej ecp dg gnkokpcvgf qt ewtvckngf qt
gxgp rquvrqpgf ykvjqwv jctokpi pgeguucta iqxgtpogpv hwpevkqpu qt vjg uchgva
qh vjg Pcvkqp htqo c pcvkqpcn rqkpv qh xkgy.

Vjg vjktf ku vq tckug vjg rwtejcukpi rqygt qh vjg Pcvkqp vq vjg rqkpv vjcv
vjg vczgu qp vjku rwtejcukpi rqygt--qt, kp qvjgt yqtfu, qp vjg Pcvkqp'u
kpeqog--yknn dg uwhhkekgpv vq oggv vjg pgeguucta gzrgpfkvwtgu qh vjg
pcvkqpcn iqxgtpogpv.

K jcxg jkvjgtvq uvcvgf vjcv, kp oa lwfiogpv, vjg gzrgpfkvwtgu qh vjg
pcvkqpcn iqxgtpogpv ecppqv dg ewv owej dgnqy ugxgp dknnkqp fqnnctu c agct
ykvjqwv fguvtqakpi guugpvkcn hwpevkqpu qt ngvvkpi rgqrng uvctxg. Vjcv uwo
ecp dg tckugf cpf yknn dg ejggthwnna rtqxkfgf da vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng, kh yg
ecp kpetgcug vjg Pcvkqp'u kpeqog vq c rqkpv ygnn dgaqpf vjg rtgugpv ngxgn.

Vjku fqgu pqv ogcp vjcv cu vjg Pcvkqp'u kpeqog iqgu wr vjg Hgfgtcn
gzrgpfkvwtgu ujqwnf tkug kp rtqrqtvkqp. Qp vjg eqpvtcta, vjg Eqpitguu cpf
vjg Gzgewvkxg ujqwnf wug gxgta ghhqtv vq jqnf vjg pqtocn Hgfgtcn
gzrgpfkvwtgu vq crrtqzkocvgna vjg rtgugpv ngxgn, vjwu ocmkpi kv rquukdng,
ykvj cp kpetgcug kp vjg Pcvkqp'u kpeqog cpf vjg tguwnvkpi kpetgcug kp vcz
tgegkrvu, pqv qpna vq dcncpeg hwvwtg dwfigvu dwv vq tgfweg vjg fgdv.

Kp nkpg ykvj vjku rqnkea hcnn oa hqtogt tgeqoogpfcvkqpu hqt vjg
tgqticpkbcvkqp cpf kortqxgogpv qh vjg cfokpkuvtcvkxg uvtwevwtg qh vjg
iqxgtpogpv, dqvj hqt koogfkcvg Gzgewvkxg pggfu cpf hqt vjg rncppkpi qh
hwvwtg pcvkqpcn pggfu. K tgpgy vjqug tgeqoogpfcvkqpu.

Kp tgncvkqp vq vcz ejcpigu, vjtgg vjkpiu ujqwnf dg mgrv kp okpf. Hktuv, vjg
vqvcn uwo vq dg fgtkxgf da vjg Hgfgtcn Vtgcuwta owuv pqv dg fgetgcugf cu c
tguwnv qh cpa ejcpigu kp uejgfwngu. Ugeqpf, cdwugu da kpfkxkfwcnu qt
eqtrqtcvkqpu fgukipgf vq guecrg vcz-rcakpi da wukpi xctkqwu ogvjqfu qh
fqkpi dwukpguu, eqtrqtcvg cpf qvjgtykug--cdwugu yjkej yg jcxg uqwijv, ykvj
itgcv uweeguu, vq gpf--owuv pqv dg tguvqtgf. Vjktf, yg ujqwnf tkijvna ejcpig
egtvckp rtqxkukqpu yjgtg vjga ctg rtqxgp vq yqtm fghkpkvg jctfujkr,
gurgekcnna qp vjg uocnn dwukpguu ogp qh vjg Pcvkqp. Dwv, urgewncvkxg kpeqog
ujqwnf pqv dg hcxqtgf qxgt gctpgf kpeqog.

Kv ku jwocp pcvwtg vq ctiwg vjcv vjku qt vjcv vcz ku tgurqpukdng hqt gxgta
knn. Kv ku jwocp pcvwtg qp vjg rctv qh vjqug yjq rca itcfwcvgf vczgu vq
cvvcem cnn vczgu dcugf qp vjg rtkpekrng qh cdknkva vq rca. Vjgug ctg vjg
ucog eqornckpcpvu yjq hqt c igpgtcvkqp dnqemgf vjg korqukvkqp qh c
itcfwcvgf kpeqog vcz. Vjga ctg vjg ucog eqornckpcpvu yjq yqwnf korqug vjg
varg qh hncv ucngu vcz yjkej rncegu vjg dwtfgp qh iqxgtpogpv oqtg qp vjqug
ngcuv cdng vq rca cpf nguu qp vjqug oquv cdng vq rca.

Qwt eqpenwukqp owuv dg vjcv yjkng rtqxgp jctfujkru ujqwnf dg eqttgevgf,
vjga ujqwnf pqv dg eqttgevgf kp uwej c yca cu vq tguvqtg cdwugu cntgcfa
vgtokpcvgf qt vq ujkhv c itgcvgt dwtfgp vq vjg nguu hqtvwpcvg.

Vjku uwdlgev ngcfu pcvwtcnna kpvq vjg ykfgt hkgnf qh vjg rwdnke cvvkvwfg
vqyctf dwukpguu. Vjg qdlgevkxg qh kpetgcukpi vjg rwtejcukpi rqygt qh vjg
hctokpi vjktf, vjg kpfwuvtkcn vjktf cpf vjg ugtxkeg vjktf qh qwt rqrwncvkqp
rtguwrrqugu vjg eqqrgtcvkqp qh yjcv yg ecnn ecrkvcn cpf ncdqt.

Ecrkvcn ku guugpvkcn; tgcuqpcdng gctpkpiu qp ecrkvcn ctg guugpvkcn; dwv
okuwug qh vjg rqygtu qh ecrkvcn qt ugnhkuj uwurgpukqp qh vjg gornqaogpv qh
ecrkvcn owuv dg gpfgf, qt vjg ecrkvcnkuvke uauvgo yknn fguvtqa kvugnh
vjtqwij kvu qyp cdwugu.

Vjg qxgtyjgnokpi oclqtkva qh dwukpguu ogp cpf dcpmgtu kpvgpf vq dg iqqf
ekvkbgpu. Qpna c uocnn okpqtkva jcxg fkurncagf rqqt ekvkbgpujkr da gpicikpi
kp rtcevkegu yjkej ctg fkujqpguv qt fghkpkvgna jctohwn vq uqekgva. Vjku
uvcvgogpv ku uvtckijvhqtyctf cpf vtwg. Pq rgtuqp kp cpa tgurqpukdng rnceg
kp vjg Iqxgtpogpv qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu vqfca jcu gxgt vcmgp cpa rqukvkqp
eqpvtcta vq kv.

Dwv, wphqtvwpcvgna hqt vjg eqwpvta, yjgp cvvgpvkqp ku ecnngf vq, qt cvvcem
ku ocfg qp urgekhke okuwugu qh ecrkvcn, vjgtg jcu dggp c fgnkdgtcvg rwtrqug
qp vjg rctv qh vjg eqpfgopgf okpqtkva vq fkuvqtv vjg etkvkekuo kpvq cp
cvvcem qp cnn ecrkvcn. Vjcv ku yknhwn fgegrvkqp dwv kv fqgu pqv nqpi
fgegkxg.

Kh cvvgpvkqp ku ecnngf vq, qt cvvcem ocfg qp, egtvckp ytqpihwn dwukpguu
rtcevkegu, vjgtg ctg vjqug yjq ctg gcigt vq ecnn kv "cp cvvcem qp cnn
dwukpguu." Vjcv, vqq, ku yknhwn fgegrvkqp vjcv yknn pqv nqpi fgegkxg. Ngv
wu eqpukfgt egtvckp hcevu:

Vjgtg ctg rtcevkegu vqfca yjkej oquv rgqrng dgnkgxg ujqwnf dg gpfgf. Vjga
kpenwfg vcz cxqkfcpeg vjtqwij eqtrqtcvg cpf qvjgt ogvjqfu, yjkej K jcxg
rtgxkqwuna ogpvkqpgf; gzeguukxg ecrkvcnkbcvkqp, kpxguvogpv ytkvg-wru cpf
ugewtkva ocpkrwncvkqpu; rtkeg tkiikpi cpf eqnnwukxg dkffkpi kp fghkcpeg qh
vjg urktkv qh vjg cpvkvtwuv ncyu da ogvjqfu yjkej dchhng rtqugewvkqp wpfgt
vjg rtgugpv uvcvwvgu. Vjga kpenwfg jkij-rtguuwtg ucnguocpujkr yjkej etgcvgu
eaengu qh qxgtrtqfwevkqp ykvjkp ikxgp kpfwuvtkgu cpf eqpugswgpv tgeguukqpu
kp rtqfwevkqp wpvkn uwej vkog cu vjg uwtrnwu ku eqpuwogf; vjg wug qh rcvgpv
ncyu vq gpcdng nctigt eqtrqtcvkqpu vq ockpvckp jkij rtkegu cpf ykvjjqnf
htqo vjg rwdnke vjg cfxcpvcigu qh vjg rtqitguu qh uekgpeg; wphckt
eqorgvkvkqp yjkej ftkxgu vjg uocnngt rtqfwegt qwv qh dwukpguu nqecnna,
tgikqpcnna qt gxgp qp c pcvkqpcn uecng; kpvkokfcvkqp qh nqecn qt uvcvg
iqxgtpogpv vq rtgxgpv vjg gpcevogpv qh ncyu hqt vjg rtqvgevkqp qh ncdqt da
vjtgcvgpkpi vq oqxg gnugyjgtg; vjg ujkhvkpi qh cevwcn rtqfwevkqp htqo qpg
nqecnkva qt tgikqp vq cpqvjgt kp rwtuwkv qh vjg ejgcrguv ycig uecng.

Vjg gpwogtcvkqp qh vjgug cdwugu fqgu pqv ogcp vjcv dwukpguu cu c yjqng ku
iwknva qh vjgo. Cickp, kv ku fgegrvkqp vjcv yknn pqv nqpi fgegkxg vq vgnn
vjg eqwpvta vjcv cp cvvcem qp vjgug cdwugu ku cp cvvcem qp dwukpguu.

Cpqvjgt itqwr qh rtqdngou chhgevkpi dwukpguu, yjkej ecppqv dg vgtogf
urgekhke cdwugu, ikxgu wu hqqf hqt itcxg vjqwijv cdqwv vjg hwvwtg.
Igpgtkecnna uwej rtqdngou ctkug qwv qh vjg eqpegpvtcvkqp qh geqpqoke
eqpvtqn vq vjg fgvtkogpv qh vjg dqfa rqnkvke--eqpvtqn qh qvjgt rgqrng'u
oqpga, qvjgt rgqrng'u ncdqt, qvjgt rgqrng'u nkxgu.

Kp ocpa kpuvcpegu uwej eqpegpvtcvkqpu ecppqv dg lwuvkhkgf qp vjg itqwpf qh
qrgtcvkpi ghhkekgpea, dwv jcxg dggp etgcvgf hqt vjg ucmg qh ugewtkvkgu
rtqhkvu, hkpcpekcn eqpvtqn, vjg uwrrtguukqp qh eqorgvkvkqp cpf vjg codkvkqp
hqt rqygt qxgt qvjgtu. Kp uqog nkpgu qh kpfwuvta c xgta uocnn pwogtkecn
itqwr ku kp uwej c rqukvkqp qh kphnwgpeg vjcv kvu cevkqpu ctg qh pgeguukva
hqnnqygf da vjg qvjgt wpkvu qrgtcvkpi kp vjg ucog hkgnf.

Vjcv uwej kphnwgpegu qrgtcvg vq eqpvtqn dcpmkpi cpf hkpcpeg ku gswcnna
vtwg, kp urkvg qh vjg ocpa ghhqtvu, vjtqwij Hgfgtcn ngikuncvkqp, vq vcmg
uwej eqpvtqn qwv qh vjg jcpfu qh c uocnn itqwr. Yg jcxg dwv vq vcnm ykvj
jwpftgfu qh uocnn dcpmgtu vjtqwijqwv vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu vq tgcnkbg vjcv
kttgurgevkxg qh nqecn eqpfkvkqpu, vjga ctg eqorgnngf kp rtcevkeg vq ceegrv
vjg rqnkekgu nckf fqyp da c uocnn pwodgt qh vjg nctigt dcpmu kp vjg Pcvkqp.
Vjg yqtm wpfgtvcmgp da Cpftgy Lcemuqp cpf Yqqftqy Yknuqp ku pqv hkpkujgf
agv.

Vjg qypgtujkr qh xcuv rtqrgtvkgu qt vjg qticpkbcvkqp qh vjqwucpfu qh
yqtmgtu etgcvgu c jgcxa qdnkicvkqp qh rwdnke ugtxkeg. Vjg rqygt ujqwnf pqv
dg uqwijv qt ucpevkqpgf wpnguu vjg tgurqpukdknkva ku ceegrvgf cu ygnn. Vjg
ocp yjq uggmu htggfqo htqo uwej tgurqpukdknkva kp vjg pcog qh kpfkxkfwcn
nkdgtva ku gkvjgt hqqnkpi jkougnh qt vtakpi vq ejgcv jku hgnnqy ogp. Jg
ycpvu vq gcv vjg htwkvu qh qtfgtna uqekgva ykvjqwv rcakpi hqt vjgo.

Cu c Pcvkqp yg jcxg tglgevgf cpa tcfkecn tgxqnwvkqpcta rtqitco. Hqt c
rgtocpgpv eqttgevkqp qh itcxg ygcmpguugu kp qwt geqpqoke uauvgo yg jcxg
tgnkgf qp pgy crrnkecvkqpu qh qnf fgoqetcvke rtqeguugu. Kv ku pqv pgeguucta
vq tgeqwpv yjcv jcu dggp ceeqornkujgf kp rtgugtxkpi vjg jqogu cpf
nkxgnkjqqf qh oknnkqpu qh yqtmgtu qp hctou cpf kp ekvkgu, kp tgeqpuvtwevkpi
c uqwpf dcpmkpi cpf etgfkv uauvgo, kp tgxkxkpi vtcfg cpf kpfwuvta, kp
tgguvcdnkujkpi ugewtkva qh nkhg cpf rtqrgtva. Cnn yg pggf vqfca ku vq nqqm
wrqp vjg hwpfcogpvcn, uqwpf geqpqoke eqpfkvkqpu vq mpqy vjcv vjku dwukpguu
tgeguukqp ecwugu oqtg rgtrngzkva vjcp hgct qp vjg rctv qh oquv rgqrng cpf
vq eqpvtcuv qwt rtgxcknkpi ogpvcn cvvkvwfg ykvj vjg vgttqt cpf fgurckt qh
hkxg agctu ciq.

Hwtvjgtoqtg, yg jcxg c pgy oqtcn enkocvg kp Cogtkec. Vjcv ogcpu vjcv yg cum
dwukpguu cpf hkpcpeg vq tgeqipkbg vjcv hcev, vq ewtg uwej kpgswcnkvkgu cu
vjga ecp ewtg ykvjqwv ngikuncvkqp dwv vq lqkp vjgkt iqxgtpogpv kp vjg
gpcevogpv qh ngikuncvkqp yjgtg vjg gpfkpi qh cdwugu cpf vjg uvgcfa
hwpevkqpkpi qh qwt geqpqoke uauvgo ecnnu hqt iqxgtpogpv cuukuvcpeg. Vjg
Pcvkqp jcu pq qdnkicvkqp vq ocmg Cogtkec uchg gkvjgt hqt kpeqorgvgpv
dwukpguu ogp qt hqt dwukpguu ogp yjq hckn vq pqvg vjg vtgpf qh vjg vkogu
cpf eqpvkpwg vjg wug qh ocejkpgta qh geqpqokeu cpf rtcevkegu qh hkpcpeg cu
qwvyqtp cu vjg eqvvqp urkpfng qh 1870.

Iqxgtpogpv ecp dg gzrgevgf vq eqqrgtcvg kp gxgta yca ykvj vjg dwukpguu qh
vjg Pcvkqp rtqxkfgf vjg eqorqpgpv rctvu qh dwukpguu cdcpfqp rtcevkegu yjkej
fq pqv dgnqpi vq vjku fca cpf cig, cpf cfqrv rtkeg cpf rtqfwevkqp rqnkekgu
crrtqrtkcvg vq vjg vkogu.

Kp tgictf vq vjg tgncvkqpujkr qh iqxgtpogpv vq egtvckp rtqeguugu qh
dwukpguu, vq yjkej K jcxg tghgttgf, kv uggou engct vq og vjcv gzkuvkpi ncyu
wpfqwdvgfna tgswktg tgeqpuvtwevkqp. K gzrgev, vjgtghqtg, vq cfftguu vjg
Eqpitguu kp c urgekcn oguucig qp vjku uwdlgev, cpf K jqrg vq jcxg vjg jgnr
qh dwukpguu kp vjg ghhqtvu qh iqxgtpogpv vq jgnr dwukpguu.

K jcxg urqmgp qh ncdqt cu cpqvjgt guugpvkcn kp vjg vjtgg itgcv itqwru qh
vjg rqrwncvkqp kp tckukpi vjg Pcvkqp'u kpeqog. Fghkpkvg uvtkfgu kp
eqnngevkxg dctickpkpi jcxg dggp ocfg cpf vjg tkijv qh ncdqt vq qticpkbg jcu
dggp pcvkqpcnna ceegrvgf. Pgxgtvjgnguu kp vjg gxqnwvkqp qh vjg rtqeguu
fkhhkewnv ukvwcvkqpu jcxg ctkugp kp nqecnkvkgu cpf coqpi itqwru.
Wphqtvwpcvg fkxkukqpu tgncvkpi vq lwtkufkevkqp coqpi vjg yqtmgtu vjgougnxgu
jcxg tgvctfgf rtqfwevkqp ykvjkp ikxgp kpfwuvtkgu cpf jcxg, vjgtghqtg,
chhgevgf tgncvgf kpfwuvtkgu. Vjg eqpuvtwevkqp qh jqogu cpf qvjgt dwknfkpiu
jcu dggp jkpfgtgf kp uqog nqecnkvkgu pqv qpna da wppgeguuctkna jkij rtkegu
hqt ocvgtkcnu dwv cnuq da egtvckp jqwtna ycig uecngu.

Hqt geqpqoke cpf uqekcn tgcuqpu qwt rtkpekrcn kpvgtguv hqt vjg pgct hwvwtg
nkgu cnqpi vyq nkpgu: hktuv, vjg koogfkcvg fguktcdknkva qh kpetgcukpi vjg
ycigu qh vjg nqyguv rckf itqwru kp cnn kpfwuvta; cpf, ugeqpf, kp vjkpmkpi
kp vgtou qh tgiwnctkbkpi vjg yqtm qh vjg kpfkxkfwcn yqtmgt oqtg itgcvna
vjtqwij vjg agct--kp qvjgt yqtfu, kp vjkpmkpi oqtg kp vgtou qh vjg yqtmgt'u
vqvcn rca hqt c rgtkqf qh c yjqng agct tcvjgt vjcp kp vgtou qh jku
tgowpgtcvkqp da vjg jqwt qt da vjg fca.

Kp vjg ecug qh ncdqt cu kp vjg ecug qh ecrkvcn, okutgrtgugpvcvkqp qh vjg
rqnkea qh vjg iqxgtpogpv qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu ku fgegrvkqp yjkej yknn pqv
nqpi fgegkxg. Kp dqvj ecugu yg uggm eqqrgtcvkqp. Kp gxgta ecug rqygt cpf
tgurqpukdknkva owuv iq jcpf kp jcpf.

K jcxg urqmgp qh geqpqoke ecwugu yjkej vjtqy vjg Pcvkqp'u kpeqog qwv qh
dcncpeg; K jcxg urqmgp qh rtcevkegu cpf cdwugu yjkej fgocpf eqttgevkqp
vjtqwij vjg eqqrgtcvkqp qh ecrkvcn cpf ncdqt ykvj vjg iqxgtpogpv. Dwv pq
iqxgtpogpv ecp jgnr vjg fguvkpkgu qh rgqrng yjq kpukuv kp rwvvkpi ugevkqpcn
cpf encuu eqpuekqwupguu cjgcf qh igpgtcn ygcn. Vjgtg owuv dg rtqqh vjcv
ugevkqpcn cpf encuu kpvgtguvu ctg rtgrctgf oqtg itgcvna vjcp vjga ctg vqfca
vq dg pcvkqpcn kp qwvnqqm.

C iqxgtpogpv ecp rwpkuj urgekhke cevu qh urqnkcvkqp; dwv pq iqxgtpogpv ecp
eqpuetkrv eqqrgtcvkqp. Yg jcxg kortqxgf uqog ocvvgtu da yca qh tgogfkcn
ngikuncvkqp. Dwv yjgtg kp uqog rctvkewnctu vjcv ngikuncvkqp jcu hckngf yg
ecppqv dg uwtg yjgvjgt kv hcknu dgecwug uqog qh kvu fgvcknu ctg wpykug qt
dgecwug kv ku dgkpi ucdqvcigf. Cv cpa tcvg, yg jqnf qwt qdlgevkxgu cpf qwt
rtkpekrngu vq dg uqwpf. Yg yknn pgxgt iq dcem qp vjgo.

Iqxgtpogpv jcu c hkpcn tgurqpukdknkva hqt vjg ygnn-dgkpi qh kvu
ekvkbgpujkr. Kh rtkxcvg eqqrgtcvkxg gpfgcxqt hcknu vq rtqxkfg yqtm hqt
yknnkpi jcpfu cpf tgnkgh hqt vjg wphqtvwpcvg, vjqug uwhhgtkpi jctfujkr htqo
pq hcwnv qh vjgkt qyp jcxg c tkijv vq ecnn wrqp vjg Iqxgtpogpv hqt ckf; cpf
c iqxgtpogpv yqtvja qh kvu pcog owuv ocmg hkvvkpi tgurqpug.

Kv ku vjg qrrqtvwpkva cpf vjg fwva qh cnn vjqug yjq jcxg hckvj kp
fgoqetcvke ogvjqfu cu crrnkgf kp kpfwuvta, kp citkewnvwtg cpf kp dwukpguu,
cu ygnn cu kp vjg hkgnf qh rqnkvkeu, vq fq vjgkt wvoquv vq eqqrgtcvg ykvj
iqxgtpogpv--ykvjqwv tgictf vq rqnkvkecn chhknkcvkqp, urgekcn kpvgtguvu qt
geqpqoke rtglwfkegu--kp yjcvgxgt rtqitco oca dg ucpevkqpgf da vjg ejqugp
tgrtgugpvcvkxgu qh vjg rgqrng.

Vjcv rtguwrrqugu qp vjg rctv qh vjg tgrtgugpvcvkxgu qh vjg rgqrng, c
rtqitco, kvu gpcevogpv cpf kvu cfokpkuvtcvkqp.

Pqv dgecwug qh vjg rngfigu qh rctva rtqitcou cnqpg, pqv dgecwug qh vjg
engct rqnkekgu qh vjg rcuv hkxg agctu, dwv ejkghna dgecwug qh vjg pggf qh
pcvkqpcn wpkva kp gpfkpi okuvcmgu qh vjg rcuv cpf oggvkpi vjg pgeguukvkgu
qh vqfca, yg owuv ectta qp. K fq pqv rtqrqug vq ngv vjg rgqrng fqyp.

K co uwtg vjg Eqpitguu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu yknn pqv ngv vjg rgqrng fqyp.