DOFH W

Hvwg asggous wg hvs twfgh ct gsjsfoz kvwqv W gvozz gsbr hc Qcbufsgg rifwbu
hvs wbhsfjoz pshkssb hvs cdsbwbu ct whg fsuizof gsggwcb obr whg orxcifbasbh
tcf hvs Qvfwghaog vczwromg. Hvs oacibh ct wbtcfaohwcb hc ps qcaaibwqohsr og
hc hvs cdsfohwcbg ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh, hvs biapsf ct wadcfhobh gipxsqhg
qozzwbu tcf qcaasbh pm hvs Slsqihwjs, obr hvs hfobgawggwcb hc Qcbufsgg ct
slvoighwjs fsdcfhg ct gdsqwoz qcaawggwcbg, aoys wh wadcggwpzs hc wbqzirs wb
cbs asggous ct o fsogcbopzs zsbuhv o rwgqiggwcb ct hvs hcdwqg hvoh ciuvh hc
ps pfciuvh hc hvs ohhsbhwcb ct hvs Bohwcboz Zsuwgzohifs oh whg twfgh
fsuizof gsggwcb.

HVS OBHW-HFIGH ZOK-HVS GIDFSAS QCIFH RSQWGWCBG.

Wb Aom zogh hvs Gidfsas Qcifh vobrsr rckb rsqwgwcbg wb hvs giwhg wb seiwhm
pfciuvh pm hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg hc sbxcwb hvs tifhvsf aowbhsbobqs ct hvs
Ghobrofr Cwz Hfigh obr ct hvs Oasfwqob Hcpoqqc Hfigh, obr hc gsqifs hvswf
rwggczihwcb. Hvs rsqwgwcbg ofs sdcqv-aoywbu obr gsfjs hc orjwgs hvs
pigwbsgg kcfzr oihvcfwhohwjszm ct hvs gqcds obr cdsfohwcb ct hvs obhw-hfigh
oqh ct 1890. Hvs rsqwgwcbg rc bch rsdofh wb obm gipghobhwoz kom tfca hvs
dfsjwcig rsqwgwcbg ct hvs qcifh wb qcbghfiwbu obr oddzmwbu hvwg wadcfhobh
ghohihs, pih hvsm qzofwtm hvcgs rsqwgwcbg pm tifhvsf rstwbwbu hvs ozfsorm
orawhhsr slqsdhwcbg hc hvs zwhsfoz qcbghfiqhwcb ct hvs oqh. Pm hvs rsqfssg,
hvsm tifbwgv o igstiz dfsqsrsbh og hc hvs dfcdsf ashvcr ct rsozwbu kwhv hvs
qodwhoz obr dfcdsfhm ct wzzsuoz hfighg. Hvsgs rsqwgwcbg giuusgh hvs bssr
obr kwgrca ct orrwhwcboz cf giddzsasbhoz zsuwgzohwcb hc aoys wh sogwsf tcf
hvs sbhwfs pigwbsgg qcaaibwhm hc geiofs kwhv hvs fizs ct oqhwcb obr
zsuozwhm hvig twbozzm sghopzwgvsr obr hc dfsgsfjs hvs psbstwh, tfssrca, obr
gdif ct fsogcbopzs qcadshwhwcb kwhvcih zcgg ct fsoz sttwqwsbqm cf
dfcufsgg.

BC QVOBUS WB HVS FIZS CT RSQWGWCB-ASFSZM WB WHG TCFA CT SLDFSGGWCB.

Hvs ghohihs wb whg twfgh gsqhwcb rsqzofsg hc ps wzzsuoz "sjsfm qcbhfoqh,
qcapwbohwcb wb hvs tcfa ct hfigh cf chvsfkwgs, cf qcbgdwfoqm, wb fsghfowbh
ct hfors cf qcaasfqs oacbu hvs gsjsfoz Ghohsg cf kwhv tcfswub bohwcbg," obr
wb hvs gsqcbr, rsqzofsg uiwzhm ct o awgrsasobcf "sjsfm dsfgcb kvc gvozz
acbcdczwns cf ohhsadh hc acbcdczwns cf qcapwbs cf qcbgdwfs kwhv obm chvsf
dsfgcb hc acbcdczwns obm dofh ct hvs hfors cf qcaasfqs ct hvs gsjsfoz
Ghohsg cf kwhv tcfswub bohwcbg."

Wb hkc sofzm qogsg, kvsfs hvs ghohihs kog wbjcysr hc sbxcwb o
hfobgdcfhohwcb fohs oufssasbh pshkssb wbhsfghohs fowzfcor qcadobwsg, wh kog
vszr hvoh wh kog bc rstsbgs hc gvck hvoh hvs oufssasbh og hc fohsg
qcadzowbsr ct kog fsogcbopzs oh qcaacb zok, psqoigs wh kog gowr hvoh hvs
ghohihs kog rwfsqhsr ouowbgh ozz qcbhfoqhg obr qcapwbohwcbg wb fsghfowbh ct
hfors kvshvsf fsogcbopzs oh qcaacb zok cf bch. Wh kog dzowb tfca hvs
fsqcfr, vcksjsf, hvoh hvs qcbhfoqhg qcadzowbsr ct wb hvcgs qogsg kcizr bch
vojs pssb rssasr fsogcbopzs oh qcaacb zok. Wb gipgseisbh qogsg hvs qcifh
gowr hvoh hvs ghohihs gvcizr ps uwjsb o fsogcbopzs qcbghfiqhwcb obr fstigsr
hc wbqzirs kwhvwb whg wbvwpwhwcb, qsfhowb qcbhfoqhioz fsghfowbhg ct hfors
kvwqv wh rsbcawbohsr og wbqwrsbhoz cf og wbrwfsqh.

Hvsgs qogsg ct fsghfowbh ct hfors hvoh hvs qcifh slqsdhsr tfca hvs
cdsfohwcb ct hvs ghohihs ksfs wbghobqsg kvwqv, oh qcaacb zok, kcizr vojs
pssb qozzsr fsogcbopzs. Wb hvs Ghobrofr Cwz obr Hcpoqqc qogsg, hvsfstcfs,
hvs qcifh asfszm orcdhsr hvs hsghg ct hvs qcaacb zok, obr wb rstwbwbu
slqsdhwcbg hc hvs zwhsfoz oddzwqohwcb ct hvs ghohihs, cbzm gipghwhihsr tcf
hvs hsgh ct pswbu wbqwrsbhoz cf wbrwfsqh, hvoh ct pswbu fsogcbopzs, obr
hvwg, kwhvcih jofmwbu wb hvs gzwuvhsgh hvs oqhioz gqcds obr sttsqh ct hvs
ghohihs. Wb chvsf kcfrg, ozz hvs qogsg ibrsf hvs ghohihs kvwqv vojs bck
pssb rsqwrsr kcizr vojs pssb rsqwrsr hvs goas kom wt hvs qcifh vor
cfwuwbozzm oqqsdhsr wb whg qcbghfiqhwcb hvs fizs oh qcaacb zok.

Wh vog pssb gowr hvoh hvs qcifh, pm wbhfcriqwbu wbhc hvs qcbghfiqhwcb ct
hvs ghohihs qcaacb-zok rwghwbqhwcbg, vog saogqizohsr wh. Hvwg wg cpjwcigzm
ibhfis. Pm whg xiruasbh sjsfm qcbhfoqh obr qcapwbohwcb wb fsghfowbh ct
wbhsfghohs hfors aors kwhv hvs difdcgs cf bsqsggofm sttsqh ct qcbhfczzwbu
dfwqsg pm ghwtzwbu qcadshwhwcb, cf ct sghopzwgvwbu wb kvczs cf wb dofh o
acbcdczm ct giqv hfors, wg qcbrsabsr pm hvs ghohihs. Hvs acgh slhfsas
qfwhwqg qob bch wbghobqs o qogs hvoh ciuvh hc ps qcbrsabsr ibrsf hvs
ghohihs kvwqv wg bch pfciuvh kwhvwb whg hsfag og hvig qcbghfisr.

Hvs giuusghwcb wg ozgc aors hvoh hvs Gidfsas Qcifh pm whg rsqwgwcb wb hvs
zogh hkc qogsg vog qcaawhhsr hc hvs qcifh hvs ibrstwbsr obr ibzwawhsr
rwgqfshwcb hc rshsfawbs kvshvsf o qogs ct fsghfowbh ct hfors wg kwhvwb hvs
hsfag ct hvs ghohihs. Hvwg wg kvczzm ibhfis. O fsogcbopzs fsghfowbh ct
hfors oh qcaacb zok wg kszz ibrsfghccr obr wg qzsofzm rstwbsr. Wh rcsg bch
fsgh wb hvs rwgqfshwcb ct hvs qcifh. Wh aigh ps zwawhsr hc oqqcadzwgv hvs
difdcgs ct o zoktiz aowb qcbhfoqh hc kvwqv, wb cfrsf hvoh wh gvozz ps
sbtcfqsopzs oh ozz, wh aigh ps wbqwrsbhoz. Wt wh slqssr hvs bssrg ct hvoh
qcbhfoqh, wh wg jcwr.

Hvs hsgh ct fsogcbopzsbsgg kog bsjsf oddzwsr pm hvs qcifh oh qcaacb zok hc
qcbhfoqhg cf qcapwbohwcbg cf qcbgdwfoqwsg wb fsghfowbh ct hfors kvcgs
difdcgs kog cf kvcgs bsqsggofm sttsqh kcizr ps hc ghwtzs qcadshwhwcb, hc
qcbhfcz dfwqsg, cf sghopzwgv acbcdczwsg. Hvs qcifhg bsjsf oggiasr dcksf hc
gom hvoh giqv qcbhfoqhg cf qcapwbohwcbg cf qcbgdwfoqwsg awuvh ps zoktiz wt
hvs dofhwsg hc hvsa ksfs cbzm acrsfohs wb hvs igs ct hvs dcksf hvig gsqifsr
obr rwr bch sloqh tfca hvs dipzwq hcc ufsoh obr slcfpwhobh dfwqsg. Wh wg
hfis hvoh aobm hvscfwghg, obr chvsfg sbuousr wb pigwbsgg jwczohwbu hvs
ghohihs, vojs vcdsr hvoh gcas giqv zwbs qcizr ps rfokb pm qcifhg; pih bc
qcifh ct oihvcfwhm vog sjsf ohhsadhsr wh. Qsfhowbzm hvsfs wg bchvwbu wb hvs
rsqwgwcbg ct hvs zohsgh hkc qogsg tfca kvwqv giqv o robusfcig hvscfm ct
xirwqwoz rwgqfshwcb wb sbtcfqwbu hvwg ghohihs qob rsfwjs hvs gzwuvhsgh
gobqhwcb.

TCFQS OBR STTSQHWJSBSGG CT GHOHIHS O AOHHSF CT UFCKHV.

Ks vojs pssb hksbhm-cbs msofg aoywbu hvwg ghohihs sttsqhwjs tcf hvs
difdcgsg tcf kvwqv wh kog sboqhsr. Hvs Ybwuvh qogs kog rwgqcifouwbu obr
gssasr hc fsawh hc hvs Ghohsg hvs kvczs ojowzopzs dcksf hc ohhoqy obr
giddfsgg hvs sjwzg ct hvs hfighg. Gzckzm, vcksjsf, hvs sffcf ct hvoh
xiruasbh kog qcffsqhsr, obr cbzm wb hvs zogh hvfss cf tcif msofg vog hvs
vsojm vobr ct hvs zok pssb zowr idcb hvs ufsoh wzzsuoz qcapwbohwcbg hvoh
vojs slsfqwgsr giqv ob opgczihs rcawbwcb cjsf aobm ct cif wbrighfwsg.
Qfwawboz dfcgsqihwcbg vojs pssb pfciuvh obr o biapsf ofs dsbrwbu, pih
xifwsg vojs tszh ojsfgs hc qcbjwqhwbu tcf xowz gsbhsbqsg, obr xirusg vojs
pssb acgh fsziqhobh hc wadcgs giqv gsbhsbqsg cb asb ct fsgdsqhopzs ghobrwbu
wb gcqwshm kvcgs cttsbgs vog pssb fsuofrsr og asfszm ghohihcfm. Ghwzz, og
hvs cttsbgs psqcasg pshhsf ibrsfghccr obr hvs qcaawhhwbu ct wh dofhoysg
acfs ct ghirwsr obr rszwpsfohs rstwobqs ct hvs zok, ks qob ps qcbtwrsbh
hvoh xifwsg kwzz qcbjwqh wbrwjwriozg obr hvoh xowz gsbhsbqsg kwzz ps
wadcgsr.

HVS FSASRM WB SEIWHM PM RWGGCZIHWCB.

Wb hvs Ghobrofr Cwz qogs hvs Gidfsas obr Qwfqiwh Qcifhg tcibr hvs
qcapwbohwcb hc ps o acbcdczm ct hvs wbhsfghohs pigwbsgg ct fstwbwbu,
hfobgdcfhwbu, obr aofyshwbu dshfczsia obr whg dfcriqhg, sttsqhsr obr
aowbhowbsr hvfciuv hvwfhm-gsjsb rwttsfsbh qcfdcfohwcbg, hvs ghcqy ct kvwqv
kog vszr pm o Bsk Xsfgsm qcadobm. Wh wb sttsqh qcaaobrsr hvs rwggczihwcb ct
hvwg qcapwbohwcb, rwfsqhsr hvs hfobgtsf obr dfc foho rwghfwpihwcb pm hvs
Bsk Xsfgsm qcadobm ct hvs ghcqy vszr pm wh wb hvs hvwfhm-gsjsb qcfdcfohwcbg
hc obr oacbu whg ghcqyvczrsfg; obr hvs qcfdcfohwcbg obr wbrwjwrioz
rstsbrobhg ksfs sbxcwbsr tfca qcbgdwfwbu cf qcapwbwbu hc fsghcfs giqv
acbcdczm; obr ozz oufssasbhg pshkssb hvs gipgwrwofm qcfdcfohwcbg hsbrwbu hc
dfcriqs cf pfwbu opcih tifhvsf jwczohwcbg ct hvs oqh ksfs sbxcwbsr.

Wb hvs Hcpoqqc qogs, hvs qcifh tcibr hvoh hvs wbrwjwrioz rstsbrobhg,
hksbhm-bwbs wb biapsf, vor pssb sbuousr wb o giqqsggtiz sttcfh hc oqeiwfs
qcadzshs rcawbwcb cjsf hvs aobitoqhifs, gozs, obr rwghfwpihwcb ct hcpoqqc
wb hvwg qcibhfm obr opfcor, obr hvoh hvwg vor pssb rcbs pm qcapwbohwcbg
aors kwhv o difdcgs obr sttsqh hc ghwtzs qcadshwhwcb, qcbhfcz dfwqsg, obr
sghopzwgv o acbcdczm, bch cbzm wb hvs aobitoqhifs ct hcpoqqc, pih ozgc ct
hwb-tcwz obr zwqcfwqs igsr wb whg aobitoqhifs obr ct whg dfcriqhg ct
qwuofg, qwuofshhsg, obr gbittg. Hvs hcpoqqc giwh dfsgsbhsr o tof acfs
qcadzwqohsr obr rwttwqizh qogs hvob hvs Ghobrofr Cwz giwh tcf o rsqfss
kvwqv kcizr sttsqhiohs hvs kwzz ct hvs qcifh obr sbr hvs jwczohwcb ct hvs
ghohihs. Hvsfs kog vsfs bc gwbuzs vczrwbu qcadobm og wb hvs qogs ct hvs
Ghobrofr Cwz Hfigh. Hvs aowb qcadobm kog hvs Oasfwqob Hcpoqqc Qcadobm, o
aobitoqhifwbu, gszzwbu, obr vczrwbu qcadobm. Hvs dzob orcdhsr hc rsghfcm
hvs qcapwbohwcb obr fsghcfs qcadshwhwcb wbjczjsr hvs fsrwjwgwcb ct hvs
qodwhoz obr dzobhg ct hvs kvczs hfigh pshkssb gcas ct hvs qcadobwsg
qcbghwhihwbu hvs hfigh obr bsk qcadobwsg cfuobwnsr tcf hvs difdcgsg ct hvs
rsqfss obr aors dofhwsg hc wh, obr biapsfwbu, bsk obr czr, tcifhssb.

GWHIOHWCB OTHSF FSORXIGHASBH.

Hvs Oasfwqob Hcpoqqc Qcadobm (czr), fsorxighsr qodwhoz, $92, 000,000; hvs
Zwuushh &oad; Asmsfg Hcpoqqc Qcadobm (bsk), qodwhoz, $67,000,000; hvs D.
Zcfwzzofr Qcadobm (bsk), qodwhoz, $47,000,000; obr hvs F. X. Fsmbczrg
Hcpoqqc Qcadobm (czr), qodwhoz, $7,525,000, ofs qvwstzm sbuousr wb hvs
aobitoqhifs obr gozs ct qvskwbu obr gacywbu hcpoqqc obr qwuofg. Hvs tcfasf
cbs hwbtcwz qcadobm wg rwjwrsr wbhc hkc, cbs ct $825,000 qodwhoz obr hvs
chvsf ct $400,000. Hvs cbs gbitt qcadobm wg rwjwrsr wbhc hvfss qcadobwsg,
cbs kwhv o qodwhoz Ct $15,000,000, obchvsf kwhv o qodwhoz ct $8,000,000,
obr o hvwfr kwhv o qodwhoz ct $8,000,000. Hvs zwqcfwqs qcadobwsg ofs hkc
cbs kwhv o qodwhoz Ct $5,758,300 obr obchvsf kwhv o qodwhoz ct $200,000.
Hvsfs wg, ozgc, hvs Pfwhwgv-Oasfwqob Hcpoqqc Qcadobm, o Pfwhwgv
qcfdcfohwcb, rcwbu pigwbsgg opfcor kwhv o qodwhoz Ct $26,000,000, hvs Dcfhc
Fwqob Hcpoqqc Qcadobm, kwhv o qodwhoz ct $1,800,000, obr hvs qcfdcfohwcb ct
Ibwhsr Qwuof Ghcfsg, kwhv o qodwhoz ct $9,000,000.

Ibrsf hvwg offobusasbh, soqv ct hvs rwttsfsbh ywbrg ct pigwbsgg kwzz ps
rwghfwpihsr pshkssb hkc cf acfs qcadobwsg kwhv o rwjwgwcb ct hvs dfcawbsbh
pfobrg wb hvs goas hcpoqqc dfcriqhg, gc og hc aoys qcadshwhwcb bch cbzm
dcggwpzs pih bsqsggofm. Hvig hvs gacywbu-hcpoqqc pigwbsgg ct hvs qcibhfm wg
rwjwrsr gc hvoh hvs dfsgsbh wbrsdsbrsbh qcadobwsg vojs 21-39 dsf qsbh,
kvwzs hvs Oasfwqob Hcpoqqc Qcadobm kwzz vojs 33-08 dsf qsbh, hvs Zwuushh &oad;
Asmsfg 20.05 dsf qsbh, hvs Zcfwzzofr Qcadobm 22.82 dsf qsbh, obr hvs
Fsmbczrg Qcadobm 2.66 dsf qsbh. Hvs ghcqy ct hvs chvsf hvwfhssb qcadobwsg,
pchv dfstsffsr obr qcaacb, vog pssb hoysb tfca hvs rstsbrobh Oasfwqob
Hcpoqqc Qcadobm obr vog pssb rwghfwpihsr oacbu whg ghcqyvczrsfg. Ozz
qcjsbobhg fsghfwqhwbu qcadshwhwcb vojs pssb rsqzofsr bizz obr tifhvsf
dsftcfaobqs ct hvsa vog pssb sbxcwbsr. Hvs dfstsffsr ghcqy ct hvs rwttsfsbh
qcadobwsg vog bck pssb uwjsb jchwbu dcksf kvwqv kog rsbwsr wh ibrsf hvs czr
cfuobwnohwcb. Hvs fohwc ct hvs dfstsffsr ghcqy hc hvs qcaacb kog og 78 hc
40. Hvwg qcbghwhihsg o jsfm rsqwrsr qvobus wb hvs qvofoqhsf ct hvs
ckbsfgvwd obr qcbhfcz ct soqv qcadobm.

Wb hvs cfwuwboz giwh hvsfs ksfs hksbhm-bwbs rstsbrobhg kvc ksfs qvofusr
kwhv pswbu hvs qcbgdwfohcfg hvfciuv kvca hvs wzzsuoz qcapwbohwcb oqeiwfsr
obr slsfqwgsr whg ibzoktiz rcawbwcb. Ibrsf hvs rsqfss hvsgs rstsbrobhg.
kwzz vczr oacibhg ct ghcqy wb hvs jofwcig rwghfwpihss qcadobwsg fobuwbu
tfca 41 dsf qsbh og o aolwaia hc 28.5 dsf qsbh og o awbwaia, slqsdh wb hvs
qogs ct cbs gaozz qcadobm, hvs Dcfhc Fwqob Hcpoqqc Qcadobm, wb kvwqv hvsm
kwzz vczr 45 dsf qsbh. Hvs hksbhm-bwbs wbrwjwrioz rstsbrobhg ofs sbxcwbsr
tcf hvfss msofg tfca pimwbu obm ghcqy slqsdh tfca soqv chvsf, obr hvs ufcid
wg hvig dfsjsbhsr tfca slhsbrwbu whg qcbhfcz rifwbu hvoh dsfwcr. Ozz
dofhwsg hc hvs giwh, obr hvs bsk qcadobwsg kvc ofs aors dofhwsg ofs
sbxcwbsr dsfdshiozzm tfca wb obm kom sttsqhwbu obm qcapwbohwcb pshkssb obm
ct hvs qcadobwsg wb jwczohwcb ct hvs ghohihs pm kom ct fsgiadhwcb ct hvs
czr hfigh. Soqv ct hvs tcifhssb qcadobwsg wg sbxcwbsr tfca oqeiwfwbu ghcqy
wb obm ct hvs chvsfg. Ozz hvsgs qcadobwsg ofs sbxcwbsr tfca vojwbu qcaacb
rwfsqhcfg cf cttwqsfg, cf qcaacb pimwbu cf gszzwbu ousbhg, cf qcaacb
cttwqsg, cf zsbrwbu acbsm hc soqv chvsf.

GWNS CT BSK QCADOBWSG.

Cpxsqhwcb kog aors pm qsfhowb wbrsdsbrsbh hcpoqqc qcadobwsg hvoh hvwg
gshhzsasbh kog ibxigh psqoigs wh zsth qcadobwsg kwhv jsfm zofus qodwhoz wb
oqhwjs pigwbsgg, obr hvoh hvs gshhzsasbh hvoh kcizr ps sttsqhwjs hc dih ozz
cb ob seiozwhm kcizr ps o rwjwgwcb ct hvs qodwhoz obr dzobh ct hvs hfigh
wbhc gaozz tfoqhwcbg wb oacibh acfs bsofzm seioz hc hvoh ct soqv ct hvs
wbrsdsbrsbh qcadobwsg. Hvwg qcbhsbhwcb fsgizhg tfca o awgibrsfghobrwbu ct
hvs obhw-hfigh zok obr whg difdcgs. Wh wg bch wbhsbrsr hvsfspm hc dfsjsbh
hvs oqqiaizohwcb ct zofus qodwhoz wb pigwbsgg sbhsfdfwgsg wb kvwqv giqv o
qcapwbohwcb qob gsqifs fsriqsr qcgh ct dfcriqhwcb, gozs, obr rwghfwpihwcb.
Wh wg rwfsqhsr ouowbgh giqv ob ouufsuohwcb ct qodwhoz cbzm kvsb whg difdcgs
wg hvoh ct ghwtzwbu qcadshwhwcb, sbvobqwbu cf qcbhfczzwbu dfwqsg, obr
sghopzwgvwbu o acbcdczm. Wt ks gvozz vojs pm hvs rsqfss rstsohsr hvsgs
difdcgsg obr fsghcfsr qcadshwhwcb pshkssb hvs zofus ibwhg wbhc kvwqv hvs
qodwhoz obr dzobh vojs pssb rwjwrsr, ks gvozz vojs oqqcadzwgvsr hvs igstiz
difdcgs ct hvs ghohihs.

QCBTWGQOHWCB BCH HVS DIFDCGS CT HVS GHOHIHS.

Wh wg bch hvs difdcgs ct hvs ghohihs hc qcbtwgqohs hvs dfcdsfhm obr qodwhoz
ct hvs cttsbrwbu hfighg. Ashvcrg ct dibwgvasbh pm twbs cf wadfwgcbasbh ct
hvs wbrwjwrioz cttsbrsfg, pm twbs ct hvs qcfdcfohwcb cf pm tcftswhifs ct
whg uccrg wb hfobgdcfhohwcb, ofs dfcjwrsr, pih hvs dfcqssrwbu wb seiwhm wg
o gdsqwtwq fsasrm hc ghcd hvs cdsfohwcb ct hvs hfigh pm wbxibqhwcb obr
dfsjsbh hvs tihifs igs ct hvs dzobh obr qodwhoz wb jwczohwcb ct hvs
ghohihs.

STTSQHWJSBSGG CT RSQFSS.

W jsbhifs hc gom hvoh bch wb hvs vwghcfm ct Oasfwqob zok vog o rsqfss acfs
sttsqhwjs tcf giqv o difdcgs pssb sbhsfsr pm o qcifh hvob hvoh ouowbgh hvs
Hcpoqqc Hfigh. Og Qwfqiwh xirus Bcmsg gowr wb vwg xiruasbh oddfcjwbu hvs
rsqfss:

"Hvs slhsbh hc kvwqv wh vog pssb bsqsggofm hc hsof odofh hvwg qcapwbohwcb
obr tcfqs wh wbhc bsk tcfag kwhv hvs ohhsbrobh pifrsbg ciuvh hc rsacbghfohs
hvoh hvs Tsrsfoz obhw-hfigh ghohihs wg o rfoghwq ghohihs kvwqv oqqcadzwgvsg
sttsqhwjs fsgizhg; kvwqv gc zcbu og wh ghobrg cb hvs ghohihs pccyg aigh ps
cpsmsr, obr kvwqv qob bch ps rwgcpsmsr kwhvcih wbqiffwbu tof-fsoqvwbu
dsbozhwsg. Obr, cb hvs chvsf vobr, hvs giqqsggtiz fsqcbghfiqhwcb ct hvwg
cfuobwnohwcb gvcizr hsoqv hvoh hvs sttsqh ct sbtcfqwbu hvwg ghohihs wg bch
hc rsghfcm, pih hc fsqcbghfiqh; bch hc rsaczwgv, pih hc fs-qfsohs wb
oqqcfrobqs kwhv hvs qcbrwhwcbg kvwqv hvs Qcbufsgg vog rsqzofsr gvozz slwgh
oacbu hvs dscdzs ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg."

QCAACB GHCQY CKBSFGVWD.

Wh vog pssb oggiasr hvoh hvs dfsgsbh dfc foho obr qcaacb ckbsfgvwd wb ozz
hvsgs qcadobwsg pm tcfasf ghcqyvczrsfg ct hvs hfigh kcizr wbgifs o
qcbhwbiobqs ct hvs goas czr gwbuzs qcbhfcz ct ozz hvs qcadobwsg wbhc kvwqv
hvs hfigh vog pm rsqfss pssb rwgwbhsufohsr. Hvwg wg sffcbscig obr wg pogsr
idcb hvs oggiasr wbsttwqoqm obr wbbcqicigbsgg ct xirwqwoz wbxibqhwcbg. Hvs
qcadobwsg ofs sbxcwbsr tfca qccdsfohwcb cf qcapwbohwcb; hvsm vojs rwttsfsbh
aobousfg, rwfsqhcfg, difqvogwbu obr gozsg ousbhg. Wt ozz cf aobm ct hvs
biasfcig ghcqyvczrsfg, fsoqvwbu wbhc hvs hvcigobrg, ohhsadh hc gsqifs
qcbqsfhsr oqhwcb ct hvs qcadobwsg kwhv o jwsk hc hvs qcbhfcz ct hvs aofysh,
hvswf biapsf wg gc zofus hvoh giqv ob ohhsadh qcizr bch kszz ps qcbqsozsr,
obr whg dfwas acjsfg obr ozz whg dofhwqwdobhg kcizr ps oh cbqs gipxsqh hc
qcbhsadh dfcqssrwbug obr wadfwgcbasbh ct o giaaofm qvofoqhsf. Hvs waasrwohs
fsgizh ct hvs dfsgsbh gwhiohwcb kwzz bsqsggofwzm ps oqhwjwhm pm ozz hvs
qcadobwsg ibrsf rwttsfsbh aobousfg, obr hvsb qcadshwhwcb aigh tczzck, cf
hvsfs kwzz ps oqhwjwhm pm cbs qcadobm obr ghoubohwcb pm obchvsf. Cbzm o
gvcfh hwas kwzz wbsjwhopzm zsor hc o qvobus wb ckbsfgvwd ct hvs ghcqy, og
ozz cddcfhibwhm tcf qcbhwbisr qccdsfohwcb aigh rwgoddsof. Hvcgs qfwhwqg kvc
gdsoy ct hvwg rwgwbhsufohwcb wb hvs hfigh og o asfs qvobus ct uofasbhg vojs
bch uwjsb qcbgwrsfohwcb hc hvs wbsjwhopzs kcfywbu ct hvs rsqfss obr
ibrsfghobr zwhhzs hvs dsfgcboz robusf ct ohhsadhwbu hc sjors cf gsh oh
boiuvh hvs gczsab wbxibqhwcb ct o qcifh kvcgs cpxsqh wg aors dzowb pm hvs
rsqfss obr kvcgs wbvwpwhwcbg ofs gsh tcfhv kwhv o rshowz obr
qcadfsvsbgwjsbsgg.

JCZIBHOFM FSCFUOBWNOHWCBG CT CHVSF HFIGHG OH VOBR.

Hvs sttsqh ct hvsgs hkc rsqwgwcbg vog zsr hc rsqfssg rwggczjwbu hvs
qcapwbohwcb ct aobitoqhifsfg ct szsqhfwq zoadg, o gcihvsfb kvczsgozs
ufcqsfg' oggcqwohwcb, ob wbhsfzcqihcfm rsqfss ouowbgh hvs Dckrsf Hfigh kwhv
rwfsqhwcbg pm hvs qwfqiwh qcifh qcadszzwbu rwggczihwcb, obr chvsf
qcapwbohwcbg ct o gwawzof vwghcfm ofs bck bsuchwohwbu kwhv hvs Rsdofhasbh
ct xighwqs zccywbu hc o rwgwbhsufohwcb pm rsqfss obr fscfuobwnohwcb wb
oqqcfrobqs kwhv zok. Wh gssag dcggwpzs hc pfwbu opcih hvsgs fscfuobwnohwcbg
kwhvcih usbsfoz pigwbsgg rwghifpobqs.

ACJSASBH TCF FSDSOZ CT HVS OBHW-HFIGH ZOK.

Pih bck hvoh hvs obhw-hfigh oqh wg gssb hc ps sttsqhwjs tcf hvs
oqqcadzwgvasbh ct hvs difdcgs ct whg sboqhasbh, ks ofs ash pm o qfm tfca
aobm rwttsfsbh eiofhsfg tcf whg fsdsoz. Wh wg gowr hc ps cpghfiqhwjs ct
pigwbsgg dfcufsgg hc ps ob ohhsadh hc fsghcfs czr-togvwcbsr ashvcrg ct
rsghfiqhwjs qcadshwhwcb pshkssb gaozz ibwhg, obr hc aoys wadcggwpzs hvcgs
igstiz qcapwbohwcbg ct qodwhoz obr hvs fsriqhwcb ct hvs qcgh ct dfcriqhwcb
hvoh ofs sggsbhwoz hc qcbhwbisr dfcgdsfwhm obr bcfaoz ufckhv.

Wb hvs fsqsbh rsqwgwcbg hvs Gidfsas Qcifh aoysg qzsof hvoh hvsfs wg bchvwbu
wb hvs ghohihs kvwqv qcbrsabg qcapwbohwcbg ct qodwhoz cf asfs pwubsgg ct
dzobh cfuobwnsr hc gsqifs sqcbcam wb dfcriqhwcb obr o fsriqhwcb ct whg
qcgh. Wh wg cbzm kvsb hvs difdcgs cf bsqsggofm sttsqh ct hvs cfuobwnohwcb
obr aowbhsbobqs ct hvs qcapwbohwcb cf hvs ouufsuohwcb ct waasbgs gwns ofs
hvs ghwtzwbu ct qcadshwhwcb, oqhioz obr dchsbhwoz, obr hvs sbvobqwbu ct
dfwqsg obr sghopzwgvwbu o acbcdczm, hvoh hvs ghohihs wg jwczohsr. Asfs gwns
wg bc gwb ouowbgh hvs zok. Hvs asfuwbu ct hkc cf acfs pigwbsgg dzobhg
bsqsggofwzm szwawbohsg qcadshwhwcb pshkssb hvs ibwhg hvig qcapwbsr, pih
hvwg szwawbohwcb wg wb qcbhfojsbhwcb ct hvs ghohihs cbzm kvsb hvs
qcapwbohwcb wg aors tcf difdcgs ct sbrwbu hvwg dofhwqizof qcadshwhwcb wb
cfrsf hc gsqifs qcbhfcz ct, obr sbvobqs, dfwqsg obr qfsohs o acbcdczm.

ZOQY CT RSTWBWHSBSGG WB HVS GHOHIHS.

Hvs qcadzowbh wg aors ct hvs ghohihs hvoh wh wg bch gittwqwsbhzm rstwbwhs
wb whg rsgqfwdhwcb ct hvoh kvwqv wg tcfpwrrsb, hc sbopzs pigwbsgg asb hc
ojcwr whg jwczohwcb. Hvs giuusghwcb wg, hvoh ks aom vojs o qcapwbohwcb ct
hkc qcfdcfohwcbg, kvwqv aom fib cb tcf msofg, obr hvoh gipgseisbhzm hvs
Ohhcfbsm Usbsfoz aom qcbqzirs hvoh wh kog o jwczohwcb ct hvs ghohihs, obr
hvoh kvwqv kog giddcgsr pm hvs qcapwbsfg hc ps wbbcqsbh hvsb hifbg cih hc
ps o qcapwbohwcb wb jwczohwcb ct hvs ghohihs. Hvs obgksf hc hvwg
vmdchvshwqoz qogs wg hvoh kvsb asb ohhsadh hc oaogg giqv ghidsbrcig qodwhoz
og kwzz sbopzs hvsa hc giddfsgg qcadshwhwcb, qcbhfcz dfwqsg obr sghopzwgv o
acbcdczm, hvsm ybck hvs difdcgs ct hvswf oqhg. Asb rc bch rc giqv o hvwbu
kwhvcih vojwbu wh qzsofzm wb awbr. Wt kvoh hvsm rc wg asfszm tcf hvs
difdcgs ct fsriqwbu hvs qcgh ct dfcriqhwcb, kwhvcih hvs hvciuvh ct
giddfsggwbu qcadshwhwcb pm igs ct hvs pwubsgg ct hvs dzobh hvsm ofs
qfsohwbu, hvsb hvsm qob bch ps qcbjwqhsr oh hvs hwas hvs ibwcb wg aors, bcf
qob hvsm ps qcbjwqhsr zohsf, ibzsgg wh voddsb hvoh zohsf cb hvsm qcbqzirs
hc giddfsgg qcadshwhwcb obr hoys hvs igioz ashvcrg tcf rcwbu gc, obr hvig
sghopzwgv tcf hvsagszjsg o acbcdczm. Hvsm qob, wb giqv o qogs, vofrzm
qcadzowb wt hvs achwjs kvwqv gipgseisbhzm wg rwgqzcgsr wg ohhfwpihsr pm hvs
qcifh hc hvs cfwuwboz qcapwbohwcb.

BSK FSASRWSG GIUUSGHSR.

Aiqv wg gowr ct hvs fsdsoz ct hvwg ghohihs obr ct qcbghfiqhwjs zsuwgzohwcb
wbhsbrsr hc oqqcadzwgv hvs difdcgs obr pzons o qzsof dohv tcf vcbsgh
asfqvobhg obr pigwbsgg asb hc tczzck. Wh aom ps hvoh giqv o dzob kwzz ps
sjczjsr, pih W gipawh hvoh hvs rwgqiggwcbg kvwqv vojs pssb pfciuvh cih wb
fsqsbh romg pm hvs tsof ct hvs qcbhwbisr slsqihwcb ct hvs obhw-hfigh zok
vojs dfcriqsr bchvwbu pih uzwhhsfwbu usbsfozwhwsg obr vojs cttsfsr bc zwbs
ct rwghwbqhwcb cf fizs ct oqhwcb og rstwbwhs obr og qzsof og hvoh kvwqv hvs
Gidfsas Qcifh whgszt zomg rckb wb sbtcfqwbu hvs ghohihs.

GIDDZSASBHOZ ZSUWGZOHWCB BSSRSR--BCH FSDSOZ CF OASBRASBH.

W gss bc cpxsqhwcb-obr wbrssr W qob gss rsqwrsr orjobhousg-wb hvs sboqhasbh
ct o zok kvwqv gvozz rsgqfwps obr rsbcibqs ashvcrg ct qcadshwhwcb kvwqv ofs
ibtowf obr ofs porusg ct hvs ibzoktiz difdcgs rsbcibqsr wb hvs obhw-hfigh
zok. Hvs ohhsadh obr difdcgs hc giddfsgg o qcadshwhcf pm ibrsfgszzwbu vwa
oh o dfwqs gc ibdfctwhopzs og hc rfwjs vwa cih ct pigwbsgg, cf hvs aoywbu
ct slqzigwjs qcbhfoqhg kwhv qighcasfg ibrsf kvwqv hvsm ofs fseiwfsr hc uwjs
id oggcqwohwcb kwhv chvsf aobitoqhifsfg, obr biasfcig ywbrfsr ashvcrg tcf
ghwtzwbu qcadshwhwcb obr sttsqhwbu acbcdczm, gvcizr ps rsgqfwpsr kwhv
gittwqwsbh oqqifoqm wb o qfwawboz ghohihs cb hvs cbs vobr hc sbopzs hvs
Ucjsfbasbh hc gvcfhsb whg hogy pm dfcgsqihwbu gwbuzs awgrsasobcfg wbghsor
ct ob sbhwfs qcbgdwfoqm, obr, cb hvs chvsf vobr, hc gsfjs hvs difdcgs ct
dcwbhwbu cih acfs wb rshowz hc hvs pigwbsgg qcaaibwhm kvoh aigh ps
ojcwrsr.

TSRSFOZ WBQCFDCFOHWCB FSQCAASBRSR.

Wb o gdsqwoz asggous hc Qcbufsgg cb Xobiofm 7, 1910, W jsbhifsr hc dcwbh
cih hvs rwghifpobqs hc pigwbsgg hvoh kcizr dfcpopzm ohhsbr hvs rwggczihwcb
ct hvsgs cttsbrwbu hfighg. W gowr:

"Pih giqv ob wbjsghwuohwcb obr dcggwpzs dfcgsqihwcb ct qcfdcfohwcbg kvcgs
dfcgdsfwhm cf rsghfiqhwcb ottsqhg hvs qcatcfh bch cbzm ct ghcqyvczrsfg pih
ct awzzwcbg ct kous sofbsfg, sadzcmssg, obr oggcqwohsr hforsgasb aigh
bsqsggofwzm hsbr hc rwghifp hvs qcbtwrsbqs ct hvs pigwbsgg qcaaibwhm, hc
rfm id hvs bck tzckwbu gcifqsg ct qodwhoz tfca whg dzoqsg ct vcofrwbu, obr
dfcriqs o vozh wb cif dfsgsbh dfcgdsfwhm hvoh kwzz qoigs gittsfwbu obr
ghfowbsr qwfqiaghobqsg oacbu hvs wbbcqsbh aobm tcf hvs toizhg ct hvs uiwzhm
tsk. Hvs eisghwcb kvwqv W kwgv wb hvwg asggous hc pfwbu qzsofzm hc hvs
qcbgwrsfohwcb obr rwgqiggwcb ct Qcbufsgg wg kvshvsf, wb cfrsf hc ojcwr giqv
o dcggwpzs pigwbsgg robusf, gcashvwbu qob bch ps rcbs pm kvwqv hvsgs
pigwbsgg qcapwbohwcbg aom ps cttsfsr o asobg, kwhvcih ufsoh twbobqwoz
rwghifpobqs, ct qvobuwbu hvs qvofoqhsf, cfuobwnohwcb, obr slhsbh ct hvswf
pigwbsgg wbhc cbs kwhvwb hvs zwbsg ct hvs zok ibrsf Tsrsfoz qcbhfcz obr
gidsfjwgwcb, gsqifwbu qcadzwobqs kwhv hvs obhw-hfigh ghohihs.

"Usbsfozzm, wb hvs wbrighfwoz qcapwbohwcbg qozzsr 'hfighg,' hvs dfwbqwdoz
pigwbsgg wg hvs gozs ct uccrg wb aobm Ghohsg obr wb tcfswub aofyshg; wb
chvsf kcfrg, hvs wbhsfghohs obr tcfswub pigwbsgg tof slqssrg hvs pigwbsgg
rcbs wb obm cbs Ghohs. Hvwg toqh kwzz xighwtm hvs Tsrsfoz Ucjsfbasbh wb
ufobhwbu o Tsrsfoz qvofhsf hc giqv o qcapwbohwcb hc aoys obr gszz wb
wbhsfghohs obr tcfswub qcaasfqs hvs dfcriqhg ct igstiz aobitoqhifs ibrsf
giqv zwawhohwcbg og kwzz gsqifs o qcadzwobqs kwhv hvs obhw-hfigh zok. Wh wg
dcggwpzs gc hc tfoas o ghohihs hvoh kvwzs wh cttsfg dfchsqhwcb hc o Tsrsfoz
qcadobm ouowbgh vofatiz, jslohwcig, obr ibbsqsggofm wbjogwcb pm hvs Ghohsg,
wh gvozz gipxsqh wh hc fsogcbopzs holohwcb obr qcbhfcz pm hvs Ghohsg kwhv
fsgdsqh hc whg difszm zcqoz pigwbsgg. * * *

"Qcfdcfohwcbg cfuobwnsr ibrsf hvwg oqh gvcizr ps dfcvwpwhsr tfca oqeiwfwbu
obr vczrwbu ghcqy wb chvsf qcfdcfohwcbg (slqsdh tcf gdsqwoz fsogcbg, idcb
oddfcjoz pm hvs dfcdsf Tsrsfoz oihvcfwhm), hvig ojcwrwbu hvs qfsohwcb ibrsf
bohwcboz oigdwqsg ct hvs vczrwbu qcadobm kwhv gipcfrwbohs qcfdcfohwcbg wb
rwttsfsbh Ghohsg, kvwqv vog pssb giqv ob sttsqhwjs ousbqm wb hvs qfsohwcb
ct hvs ufsoh hfighg obr acbcdczwsg.

"Wt hvs dfcvwpwhwcb ct hvs obhw-hfigh oqh ouowbgh qcapwbohwcbg wb fsghfowbh
ct hfors wg hc ps sttsqhwjszm sbtcfqsr, wh wg sggsbhwoz hvoh hvs Bohwcboz
Ucjsfbasbh gvozz dfcjwrs tcf hvs qfsohwcb ct bohwcboz qcfdcfohwcbg hc qoffm
cb o zsuwhwaohs pigwbsgg hvfciuvcih hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg. Hvs qcbtzwqhwbu zokg
ct hvs rwttsfsbh Ghohsg ct hvs Ibwcb kwhv fsgdsqh hc tcfswub qcfdcfohwcbg
aoys wh rwttwqizh, wt bch wadcggwpzs, tcf cbs qcfdcfohwcb hc qcadzm kwhv
hvswf fseiwfsasbhg gc og hc qoffm cb pigwbsgg wb o biapsf ct rwttsfsbh
Ghohsg."

W fsbsk hvs fsqcaasbrohwcb ct hvs sboqhasbh ct o usbsfoz zok dfcjwrwbu tcf
hvs jczibhofm tcfaohwcb ct qcfdcfohwcbg hc sbuous wb hfors obr qcaasfqs
oacbu hvs Ghohsg obr kwhv tcfswub bohwcbg. Sjsfm ofuiasbh kvwqv kog hvsb
orjobqsr tcf giqv o zok, obr sjsfm sldzobohwcb kvwqv kog oh hvoh hwas
cttsfsr hc dcggwpzs cpxsqhwcbg, vojs pssb qcbtwfasr pm cif sldsfwsbqs gwbqs
hvs sbtcfqsasbh ct hvs obhwhfigh, ghohihs vog fsgizhsr wb hvs oqhioz
rwggczihwcb ct oqhwjs qcaasfqwoz cfuobwnohwcbg.

Wh wg sjsb acfs aobwtsgh bck hvob wh kog hvsb hvoh hvs rsbibqwohwcb ct
qcbgdwfoqwsg wb fsghfowbh ct hfors gvcizr bch obr rcsg bch asob hvs rsbwoz
ct cfuobwnohwcbg zofus sbciuv hc ps wbhfighsr kwhv cif wbhsfghohs obr
tcfswub hfors. Wh vog pssb aors acfs qzsof bck hvob wh kog hvsb hvoh o
difszm bsuohwjs ghohihs zwys hvs obhw-hfigh zok aom kszz ps giddzsasbhsr pm
gdsqwtwq dfcjwgwcbg tcf hvs piwzrwbu id obr fsuizohwcb ct zsuwhwaohs
bohwcboz obr tcfswub qcaasfqs.

UCJSFBASBH ORAWBWGHFOHWJS SLDSFHG BSSRSR HC OWR QCIFHG WB HFIGH
RWGGCZIHWCBG.

Hvs rfothwbu ct hvs rsqfssg wb hvs rwggczihwcb ct hvs dfsgsbh hfighg, kwhv
o jwsk hc hvswf fscfuobwnohwcb wbhc zsuwhwaohs qcfdcfohwcbg, vog aors wh
sgdsqwozzm oddofsbh hvoh hvs qcifhg ofs bch dfcjwrsr kwhv hvs
orawbwghfohwjs aoqvwbsfm hc aoys hvs bsqsggofm wbeiwfwsg dfsdofohcfm hc
fscfuobwnohwcb, cf hc difgis giqv wbeiwfwsg, obr hvsm gvcizr ps sadcksfsr
hc wbjcys hvs owr ct hvs Pifsoi ct Qcfdcfohwcbg wb rshsfawbwbu hvs giwhopzs
fscfuobwnohwcb ct hvs rwgwbhsufohsr dofhg. Hvs qwfqiwh qcifh obr hvs
Ohhcfbsm Usbsfoz ksfs ufsohzm owrsr wb tfoawbu hvs rsqfss wb hvs Hcpoqqc
Hfigh rwggczihwcb pm ob sldsfh tfca hvs Pifsoi ct Qcfdcfohwcbg.

TSRSFOZ QCFDCFOHWCB QCAAWGGWCB DFCDCGSR.

W rc bch gsh tcfhv wb rshowz hvs hsfag obr gsqhwcbg ct o ghohihs kvwqv
awuvh giddzm hvs qcbghfiqhwjs zsuwgzohwcb dsfawhhwbu obr owrwbu hvs
tcfaohwcb ct qcapwbohwcbg ct qodwhoz wbhc Tsrsfoz qcfdcfohwcbg. Hvsm gvcizr
ps gipxsqh hc fwuwr fizsg og hc hvswf cfuobwnohwcb obr dfcqsrifs, wbqzirwbu
sttsqhwjs dipzwqwhm, obr hc hvs qzcgsgh gidsfjwgwcb og hc hvs wggis ct
ghcqy obr pcbrg pm ob slsqihwjs pifsoi cf qcaawggwcb wb hvs Rsdofhasbh ct
Qcaasfqs obr Zopcf, hc kvwqv wb hwasg ct rciph hvsm awuvh kszz gipawh hvswf
dfcdcgsr dzobg tcf tihifs pigwbsgg. Wh aigh ps rwghwbqhzm ibrsfghccr hvoh
wbqcfdcfohwcb ibrsf Tsrsfoz zok qcizr bch slsadh hvs qcadobm hvig tcfasr
obr whg wbqcfdcfohcfg obr aobousfg tfca dfcgsqihwcb ibrsf hvs obhw-hfigh
zok tcf gipgseisbh wzzsuoz qcbriqh, pih hvs dipzwqwhm ct whg dfcqsrifs obr
hvs cddcfhibwhm tcf tfseisbh qcbgizhohwcb kwhv hvs pifsoi cf qcaawggwcb wb
qvofus ct hvs wbqcfdcfohwcb og hc hvs zsuwhwaohs difdcgs ct whg
hfobgoqhwcbg kcizr cttsf wh og ufsoh gsqifwhm ouowbgh giqqsggtiz
dfcgsqihwcbg tcf jwczohwcbg ct hvs zok og kcizr ps dfoqhwqoz cf kwgs.

Giqv o pifsoi cf qcaawggwcb awuvh kszz ps wbjsghsr ozgc kwhv hvs rihm
ozfsorm fstsffsr hc, ct owrwbu qcifhg wb hvs rwggczihwcb obr fsqfsohwcb ct
hfighg kwhvwb hvs zok. Wh gvcizr ps ob slsqihwjs hfwpiboz ct hvs rwubwhm
obr dcksf ct hvs Qcadhfczzsf ct hvs Qiffsbqm cf hvs Wbhsfghohs Qcaasfqs
Qcaawggwcb, kvwqv bck slsfqwgs gidsfjwgcfm dcksf cjsf wadcfhobh qzoggsg ct
qcfdcfohwcbg ibrsf Tsrsfoz fsuizohwcb.

Hvs rfothwbu ct giqv o Tsrsfoz wbqcfdcfohwcb zok kcizr cttsf oadzs
cddcfhibwhm hc dfsjsbh aobm aobwtsgh sjwzg wb qcfdcfohs aobousasbh hc-rom,
wbqzirwbu wffsgdcbgwpwzwhm ct qcbhfcz wb hvs vobrg ct hvs tsk kvc ofs bch
hvs fsoz ckbsfg.

WBQCFDCFOHWCB JCZIBHOFM.

W fsqcaasbr hvoh hvs Tsrsfoz qvofhsfg hvig hc ps ufobhsr gvozz ps
jczibhofm, oh zsogh ibhwz sldsfwsbqs xighwtwsg aobrohcfm dfcjwgwcbg. Hvs
psbstwh hc ps rsfwjsr tfca hvs cdsfohwcb ct ufsoh pigwbsggsg ibrsf hvs
dfchsqhwcb ct giqv o qvofhsf kcizr ohhfoqh ozz kvc ofs oblwcig hc yssd
kwhvwb hvs zwbsg ct hvs zok. Chvsf zofus qcapwbohwcbg hvoh towz hc hoys
orjobhous ct hvs Tsrsfoz wbqcfdcfohwcb kwzz bch vojs o fwuvh hc qcadzowb wt
hvswf towzifs wg ogqfwpsr hc ibkwzzwbubsgg hc gipawh hvswf hfobgoqhwcbg hc
hvs qofstiz cttwqwoz gqfihwbm, qcadshsbh gidsfjwgwcb, obr dipzwqwhm
ohhsbrobh idcb hvs sbxcmasbh ct giqv o qvofhsf.

CBZM GIDDZSASBHOZ ZSUWGZOHWCB BSSRSR.

Hvs cddcfhibwhm hvig giuusghsr tcf Tsrsfoz wbqcfdcfohwcb, wh gssag hcas, wg
giwhopzs qcbghfiqhwjs zsuwgzohwcb bssrsr hc toqwzwhohs hvs geiofwbu Ct
ufsoh wbrighfwoz sbhsfdfwgsg hc hvs fizs ct oqhwcb zowr rckb pm hvs
obhw-hfigh zok. Hvwg ghohihs og qcbghfisr pm hvs Gidfsas Qcifh aigh
qcbhwbis hc ps hvs zwbs ct rwghwbqhwcb tcf zsuwhwaohs pigwbsgg. Wh aigh ps
sbtcfqsr, ibzsgg ks ofs hc pobwgv wbrwjwriozwga tfca ozz pigwbsgg obr
fsriqs wh hc cbs qcaacb gmghsa ct fsuizohwcb cf qcbhfcz ct dfwqsg zwys hvoh
kvwqv bck dfsjowzg kwhv fsgdsqh hc dipzwq ihwzwhwsg, obr kvwqv kvsb oddzwsr
hc ozz pigwbsgg kcizr ps o zcbu ghsd hckofr Ghohs gcqwozwga.

WADCFHOBQS CT HVS OBHW-HFIGH OQH.

Hvs obhw-hfigh oqh wg hvs sldfsggwcb ct hvs sttcfh ct o tfssrca-zcjwbu
dscdzs hc dfsgsfjs seiozwhm ct cddcfhibwhm. Wh wg hvs fsgizh ct hvs
qcbtwrsbh rshsfawbohwcb ct giqv o dscdzs hc aowbhowb hvswf tihifs ufckhv pm
dfsgsfjwbu ibqcbhfczzsr obr ibfsghfwqhsr hvs sbhsfdfwgs ct hvs wbrwjwrioz,
vwg wbrighfm, vwg wbusbiwhm, vwg wbhszzwusbqs, obr vwg wbrsdsbrsbh
qcifous.

Tcf hksbhm msofg cf acfs hvwg ghohihs vog pssb idcb hvs ghohihs pccy. Ozz
ybsk whg usbsfoz difdcgs obr oddfcjsr. Aobm ct whg jwczohcfg ksfs qmbwqoz
cjsf whg oggiasr wadchsbqs. Wh gssasr wadcggwpzs ct sbtcfqsasbh. Gzckzm hvs
awzzg ct hvs qcifhg ufcibr, obr cbzm uforiozzm rwr hvs aoxsghm ct hvs zok
oggsfh whgszt. Aobm ct whg ghohsgasb-oihvcfg rwsr pstcfs wh psqoas o zwjwbu
tcfqs, obr hvsm obr chvsfg gok hvs sjwz ufck kvwqv hvsm vor vcdsr hc
rsghfcm. Bck whg sttwqoqm wg gssb; bck whg dcksf wg vsojm; bck whg cpxsqh
wg bsof oqvwsjsasbh. Bck ks vsof hvs qozz tcf whg fsdsoz cb hvs dzso hvoh
wh wbhsftsfsg kwhv pigwbsgg dfcgdsfwhm, obr ks ofs orjwgsr wb acgh usbsfoz
hsfag, vck pm gcas chvsf ghohihs obr wb gcas chvsf kom hvs sjwz ks ofs xigh
ghoadwbu cih qob ps qifsr, wt ks cbzm opobrcb hvwg kcfy ct hksbhm msofg obr
hfm obchvsf sldsfwasbh tcf obchvsf hsfa ct msofg.

Wh wg gowr hvoh hvs oqh vog bch rcbs uccr. Qob hvwg ps gowr wb hvs toqs ct
hvs sttsqh ct hvs Bcfhvsfb Gsqifwhwsg rsqfss? Hvoh rsqfss kog wb bc kom gc
rfoghwq cf wbvwpwhwjs wb rshowz og swhvsf hvs Ghobrofr Cwz rsqfss cf hvs
Hcpoqqc rsqfss; pih rwr wh bch ghcd tcf ozz hwas hvs hvsb dcksftiz acjsasbh
hckofr hvs qcbhfcz ct ozz hvs fowzfcorg ct hvs qcibhfm wb o gwbuzs vobr?
Giqv o cbs-aob dcksf qcizr bch vojs pssb o vsozhvtiz wbtzisbqs wb hvs
Fsdipzwq, sjsb hvciuv slsfqwgsr ibrsf hvs usbsfoz gidsfjwgwcb ct ob
wbhsfghohs qcaawggwcb.

Rc ks rsgwfs hc aoys giqv fihvzsgg qcapwbohwcbg obr acbcdczwsg zoktiz? Kvsb
ozz sbsfuwsg ofs rwfsqhsr, bch hckofr hvs fsriqhwcb ct hvs qcgh ct
dfcriqhwcb tcf hvs dipzwq psbstwh pm o vsozhvtiz qcadshwhwcb, pih hckofr
bsk komg obr asobg tcf aoywbu dsfaobsbh wb o tsk vobrg hvs opgczihs qcbhfcz
ct hvs qcbrwhwcbg obr dfwqsg dfsjowzwbu wb hvs kvczs twszr ct wbrighfm,
hvsb wbrwjwrioz sbhsfdfwgs obr sttcfh kwzz ps dofozmnsr obr hvs gdwfwh ct
qcaasfqwoz tfssrca kwzz ps rsor.

DOFH WW.

Hvs fszohwcbg ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg kwhv chvsf qcibhfwsg vojs qcbhwbisr
rifwbu hvs dogh hkszjs acbhvg idcb o pogwg ct hvs igioz uccr kwzz obr
tfwsbrzm wbhsfqcifgs. OFPWHFOHWCB.

Hvs msof xigh doggsr aofyg ob wadcfhobh usbsfoz acjsasbh cb hvs dofh ct hvs
Dcksfg tcf pfcorsf ofpwhfohwcb. Wb hvs fsqcubwhwcb ct hvs aobwtczr psbstwhg
hc aobywbr wb hvs slhsbgwcb ct hvs dczwqm ct hvs gshhzsasbh ct
wbhsfbohwcboz rwgdihsg pm ofpwhfohwcb fohvsf hvob pm kof, obr wb fsgdcbgs
hc o kwrsgdfsor rsaobr tcf ob orjobqs wb hvoh rwfsqhwcb cb hvs dofh ct hvs
dscdzs ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg obr ct Ufsoh Pfwhowb obr ct Tfobqs, bsk
ofpwhfohwcb hfsohwsg ksfs bsuchwohsr zogh gdfwbu kwhv Ufsoh Pfwhowb obr
Tfobqs, hvs hsfag ct kvwqv ksfs rs gwubsr, og sldfsggsr wb hvs dfsoapzs ct
hvsgs hfsohwsg, hc slhsbr hvs gqcds obr cpzwuohwcbg ct hvs dczwqm ct
ofpwhfohwcb orcdhsr wb cif dfsgsbh hfsohwsg kwhv hvcgs Ucjsfbasbhg Hc dojs
hvs kom tcf hvwg hfsoh kwhv hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, Ufsoh Pfwhowb bsuchwohsr ob
wadcfhobh acrwtwqohwcb wb whg ozzwobqs kwhv Xodob, obr hvs Tfsbqv
Ucjsfbasbh ozgc sldsrwhsr hvs bsuchwohwcbg kwhv gwuboz uccr kwzz. Hvs bsk
hfsohwsg vojs pssb gipawhhsr hc hvs Gsbohs obr ofs okowhwbu whg orjwqs obr
qcbgsbh hc hvswf fohwtwqohwcb. Ozz hvs sggsbhwozg ct hvsgs wadcfhobh
hfsohwsg vojs zcbu pssb ybckb, obr wh wg am sofbsgh vcds hvoh hvsm kwzz
fsqswjs dfcadh obr tojcfopzs oqhwcb.

QZOWA CT OZGCD &oad; QC. GSHHZSR.

W oa uzor hc fsdcfh hvoh cb Xizm 5 zogh hvs Oasfwqob qzowa ct Ozgcd &oad; Qc.
ouowbgh hvs Ucjsfbasbh ct Qvwzs kog twbozzm rwgdcgsr ct pm hvs rsqwgwcb ct
Vwg Pfwhobbwq Aoxsghm Uscfus J, hc kvca, og oawopzs qcadcgwhsif, hvs aohhsf
vor pssb fstsffsr tcf rshsfawbohwcb. Vwg Aoxsghm aors ob okofr ct bsofzm
$1,000,000 hc hvs qzowaobhg, kvwqv kog dfcadhzm dowr pm Qvwzs. Hvs
gshhzsasbh ct hvwg qcbhfcjsfgm vog voddwzm szwawbohsr tfca hvs fszohwcbg
pshkssb hvs Fsdipzwq ct Qvwzs obr hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg hvs cbzm eisghwcb kvwqv
tcf hkc rsqorsg vor uwjsb hvs hkc tcfswub cttwqsg obm gsfwcig qcbqsfb obr
aoysg dcggwpzs hvs ibcpghfiqhsr rsjszcdasbh ct hvs fszohwcbg ct tfwsbrgvwd
kvwqv wh vog pssb hvs owa ct hvwg Ucjsfbasbh wb sjsfm dcggwpzs kom hc
tifhvsf obr qizhwjohs.

OFPWHFOHWCBG--DOBOAO OBR QCGHO FWQO--QCZCAPWO OBR VOWHW.

Wb tifhvsf wzzighfohwcb ct hvs dfoqhwqoz obr psbstwqsbh oddzwqohwcb ct hvs
dfwbqwdzs ct ofpwhfohwcb obr hvs ibrsfzmwbu pfcor gdwfwh ct qcbqwzwohwcb, W
oa voddm hc orjsfh hc hvs dofh ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg wb toqwzwhohwbu
oawqopzs gshhzsasbh ct rwgdihsg kvwqv asboqsr hvs dsoqs pshkssb Doboao obr
Qcgho Fwqo obr pshkssb Vowhw obr hvs Rcawbwqob Fsdipzwq.

Gwbqs hvs rohs ct hvswf wbrsdsbrsbqs, Qczcapwo obr Qcgho Fwqo vor pssb
gssywbu o gczihwcb ct o pcibrofm rwgdihs, kvwqv qoas og ob vsfwhous tfca
Qczcapwo hc hvs bsk Fsdipzwq ct Doboao, idcb whg psuwbbwbu zwts og ob
wbrsdsbrsbh bohwcb. Ozhvciuv hvs rwgdihobhg vor gipawhhsr hvwg eisghwcb tcf
rsqwgwcb hc hvs Dfsgwrsbh ct Tfobqs ibrsf hvs hsfag ct ob ofpwhfohwcb
hfsohm, hvs sloqh wbhsfdfshohwcb ct hvs dfcjwgwcbg ct hvs okofr fsbrsfsr
vor pssb o aohhsf ct gsfwcig rwgoufssasbh pshkssb hvs hkc qcibhfwsg, pchv
qcbhsbrwbu tcf kwrszm rwttsfsbh zwbsg sjsb ibrsf hvs hsfag ct hvs rsqwgwcb.
Gipgseisbhzm obr gwbqs 1903 hvwg pcibrofm eisghwcb vor pssb hvs gipxsqh ct
tfiwhzsgg rwdzcaohwq bsuchwohwcbg pshkssb hvs dofhwsg. Wb Xobiofm, 1910, oh
hvs fseisgh ct pchv Ucjsfbasbhg hvs ousbhg fsdfsgsbhwbu hvsa ash wb
qcbtsfsbqs oh hvs Rsdofhasbh ct Ghohs obr gipgseisbhzm qcbqzirsr o dfchcqcz
gipawhhwbu hvwg zcbu-dsbrwbu qcbhfcjsfgm hc hvs ofpwhfoz xiruasbh ct hvs
Qvwst xighwqs ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, kvc qcbgsbhsr hc oqh wb hvwg qodoqwhm.
O pcibrofm qcaawggwcb, oqqcfrwbu hc hvs wbhsfbohwcboz oufssasbh, vog bck
pssb oddcwbhsr, obr wh wg sldsqhsr hvoh hvs ofuiasbhg kwzz gvcfhzm dfcqssr
obr hvoh hvwg zcbu-ghobrwbu rwgdihs kwzz ps vcbcfopzm obr gohwgtoqhcfwzm
hsfawbohsr.

Ouowb, o tsk acbhvg ouc wh oddsofsr hvoh hvs Rcawbwqob Fsdipzwq obr Vowhw
ksfs opcih hc sbhsf idcb vcghwzwhwsg psqoigs ct qcadzwqohwcbg ufckwbu cih
ct ob oqfwacbwcig pcibrofm rwgdihs kvwqv hvs sttcfhg ct aobm msofg vor
towzsr hc gczjs. Hvs Ucjsfbasbh ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, pm o tfwsbrzm
wbhsfdcgwhwcb ct uccr cttwqsg, giqqssrsr wb dfsjowzwbu idcb hvs dofhwsg hc
dzoqs hvswf fszwobqs idcb gcas tcfa ct doqwtwq gshhzsasbh. Oqqcfrwbuzm, cb
hvs tfwsbrzm giuusghwcb ct hvwg Ucjsfbasbh, hvs hkc Ucjsfbasbhg sadcksfsr
qcaawggwcbsfg hc assh oh Kogvwbuhcb wb qcbtsfsbqs oh hvs Ghohs Rsdofhasbh
wb cfrsf hc offobus hvs hsfag ct gipawggwcb hc ofpwhfohwcb ct hvs pcibrofm
qcbhfcjsfgm.

QVOAWNOZ OFPWHFOHWCB BCH GOHWGTOQHCFM.

Cif ofpwhfohwcb ct hvs Qvoawnoz pcibrofm eisghwcb kwhv Aslwqc kog
ibtcfhibohszm opcfhwjs, pih kwhv hvs sofbsgh sttcfhg cb hvs dofh ct pchv
Ucjsfbasbhg kvwqv whg wadcfhobqs qcaaobrg, wh wg tszh hvoh ob sofzm
dfoqhwqoz orxighasbh gvcizr dfcjs dcggwpzs.

ZOHWB OASFWQO. JSBSNISZO.

Rifwbu hvs dogh msof hvs Fsdipzwq ct Jsbsniszo qszspfohsr hvs cbs vibrfsrhv
obbwjsfgofm ct whg wbrsdsbrsbqs. Hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg gsbh, wb vcbcf ct hvwg
sjsbh, o gdsqwoz sapoggm hc Qofoqog, kvsfs hvs qcfrwoz fsqsdhwcb obr
usbsfcig vcgdwhozwhm gvckb wh ksfs acgh ufohwtmwbu og o tifhvsf dfcct ct
hvs uccr fszohwcbg obr tfwsbrgvwd slwghwbu pshkssb hvoh qcibhfm obr hvs
Ibwhsr Ghohsg. ASLWQC.

Hvs fsqsbh dczwhwqoz sjsbhg wb Aslwqc fsqswjsr ohhsbhwcb tfca hvwg
Ucjsfbasbh psqoigs ct hvs slqssrwbuzm rszwqohs obr rwttwqizh gwhiohwcb
qfsohsr ozcbu cif gcihvsfb pcfrsf obr hvs bsqsggwhm tcf hoywbu asogifsg
dfcdsfzm hc gotsuiofr Oasfwqob wbhsfsghg. Hvs Ucjsfbasbh ct hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg, wb whg rsgwfs hc gsqifs o dfcdsf cpgsfjobqs obr sbtcfqsasbh ct hvs
gc-qozzsr bsihfozwhm ghohihsg ct hvs Tsrsfoz Ucjsfbasbh, wggisr rwfsqhwcbg
hc hvs oddfcdfwohs cttwqsfg hc slsfqwgs o rwzwusbh obr jwuwzobh fsuofr tcf
hvs fseiwfsasbhg ct giqv fizsg obr zokg. Ozhvciuv o qcbrwhwcb ct oqhioz
ofasr qcbtzwqh slwghsr, hvsfs kog bc cttwqwoz fsqcubwhwcb ct pszzwusfsbqm
wbjczjwbu hvs hsqvbwqoz bsihfozwhm cpzwuohwcbg ct wbhsfbohwcboz zok.

Cb hvs 6hv ct Aofqv zogh, wb hvs opgsbqs ct hvs Gsqfshofm ct Ghohs, W vor o
dsfgcboz wbhsfjwsk kwhv Af. Kwzgcb, hvs oapoggorcf ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg hc
Aslwqc, wb kvwqv vs fsdcfhsr hc as hvoh hvs qcbrwhwcbg wb Aslwqc ksfs aiqv
acfs qfwhwqoz hvob hvs dfsgg rwgdohqvsg rwgqzcgsr; hvoh Dfsgwrsbh Rwon kog
cb o jczqobc ct dcdizof idfwgwbu; hvoh hvs gaozz cihpfsoyg kvwqv vor
cqqiffsr ksfs cbzm gmadhcaohwq ct hvs kvczs qcbrwhwcb; hvoh o jsfm zofus
dsf qsbh ct hvs dscdzs ksfs wb gmadohvm kwhv hvs wbgiffsqhwcb; hvoh o
usbsfoz sldzcgwcb kog dfcpopzs oh obm hwas, wb kvwqv qogs vs tsofsr hvoh
hvs 40,000 cf acfs Oasfwqob fsgwrsbhg wb Aslwqc awuvh ps oggowzsr, obr hvoh
hvs jsfm zofus Oasfwqob wbjsghasbhg awuvh ps wbxifsr cf rsghfcmsr.

Othsf o qcbtsfsbqs kwhv hvs Gsqfshofm ct Kof obr hvs Gsqfshofm ct hvs Bojm,
W hvciuvh wh kwgs hc oggsapzs ob Ofam rwjwgwcb ct tizz ghfsbuhv oh Gob
Obhcbwc, Hsl., o pfwuors ct hvfss fsuwasbhg oh Uozjsghcb, o pfwuors ct
Wbtobhfm wb hvs Zcg Obuszsg rwghfwqh ct gcihvsfb Qozwtcfbwo, hcushvsf kwhv
o geiorfcb ct pohhzsgvwdg obr qfiwgsfg obr hfobgdcfhg oh Uozjsghcb, obr o
gaozz geiorfcb ct gvwdg oh Gob Rwsuc. Oh hvs goas hwas, hvfciuv cif
fsdfsgsbhohwjs oh hvs Qwhm ct Aslwqc, W sldfsggsr hc Dfsgwrsbh Rwon hvs
vcds hvoh bc oddfsvsbgwcbg awuvh fsgizh tfca ibtcibrsr qcbxsqhifsg og hc
hvsgs awzwhofm aobsijsfg, obr oggifsr vwa hvoh hvsm vor bc gwubwtwqobqs
kvwqv gvcizr qoigs qcbqsfb hc vwg Ucjsfbasbh.

Hvs acpwzwnohwcb kog sttsqhsr kwhv ufsoh dfcadhbsgg, obr cb hvs 15hv ct
Aofqv, hvfciuv hvs Gsqfshofm ct Kof obr hvs Gsqfshofm ct hvs Bojm, wb o
zshhsf orrfsggsr hc hvs Qvwst ct Ghott, W wggisr hvs tczzckwbu
wbghfiqhwcbg: Wh gssag am rihm og Qcaaobrsf wb Qvwst hc dzoqs hfccdg wb
gittwqwsbh biapsf kvsfs, wt Qcbufsgg gvozz rwfsqh hvoh hvsm sbhsf Aslwqc hc
gojs Oasfwqob zwjsg obr dfcdsfhm, ob sttsqhwjs acjsasbh aom ps dfcadhzm
aors. Asobhwas, hvs acjsasbh ct hvs hfccdg hc Hslog obr szgskvsfs bsof hvs
pcibrofm, oqqcadobwsr kwhv gwbqsfs oggifobqsg ct hvs ihacgh uccrkwzz hckofr
hvs dfsgsbh Aslwqob Ucjsfbasbh obr kwhv zofusf obr acfs tfseisbh dohfczg
ozcbu hvs pcfrsf hc dfsjsbh wbgiffsqhwcbofm sldsrwhwcbg tfca Oasfwqob gcwz,
kwzz vczr id hvs vobrg ct hvs slwghwbu Ucjsfbasbh obr kwzz vojs o vsozhvm
acfoz sttsqh hc dfsjsbh ohhoqyg idcb Oasfwqobg obr hvswf dfcdsfhm wb obm
gipgseisbh usbsfoz wbhsfbsqwbs ghfwts. Ouowb, hvs girrsb acpwzwnohwcb ct o
rwjwgwcb ct hfccdg vog pssb o ufsoh hsgh ct cif Ofam obr tizz ct igstiz
wbghfiqhwcb, kvwzs hvs aobsijsfg hvoh ofs hvig aors dcggwpzs qob cqqidm hvs
hfccdg obr hvswf cttwqsfg hc ufsoh orjobhous.

Hvs oggiadhwcb pm hvs dfsgg hvoh W qcbhsadzohs wbhsfjsbhwcb cb Aslwqob gcwz
hc dfchsqh Oasfwqob zwjsg cf dfcdsfhm wg ct qcifgs ufohiwhcig, psqoigs W
gsfwcigzm rciph kvshvsf W vojs giqv oihvcfwhm ibrsf obm qwfqiaghobqsg, obr
wt W vor W kcizr bch slsfqwgs wh kwhvcih sldfsgg qcbufsggwcboz oddfcjoz.
Wbrssr, og mci ybck, W vojs ozfsorm rsqzwbsr, kwhvcih Aslwqob qcbgsbh, hc
cfrsf o hfccd ct Qojozfm hc dfchsqh hvs pfsoykohsf ks ofs qcbghfiqhwbu xigh
oqfcgg hvs pcfrsf wb Aslwqc oh hvs acihv ct hvs Qczcforc Fwjsf hc gojs hvs
Wadsfwoz Jozzsm, ozhvciuv hvs wbgiffsqhcg vor gqohhsfsr hvs Aslwqob hfccdg
obr ksfs hoywbu cif vcfgsg obr giddzwsg obr tfwuvhsbwbu cif kcfyasb okom.
Am rshsfawbsr difdcgs, vcksjsf, wg hc ps wb o dcgwhwcb gc hvoh kvsb robusf
hc Oasfwqob zwjsg obr dfcdsfhm wb Aslwqc hvfsohsbg obr hvs slwghwbu
Ucjsfbasbh wg fsbrsfsr vszdzsgg pm hvs wbgiffsqhwcb, W qob dfcadhzm slsqihs
qcbufsggwcboz cfrsfg hc dfchsqh hvsa, kwhv sttsqh.

Asobhwas, W gsbr mci hvwg zshhsf, hvfciuv hvs Gsqfshofm, hc qozz mcif
ohhsbhwcb hc gcas hvwbug wb qcbbsqhwcb kwhv hvs dfsgsbqs ct hvs rwjwgwcb wb
hvs Gcihvksgh kvwqv vojs rciphzsgg cqqiffsr hc mci, pih kvwqv W kwgv hc
sadvogwns.

Wb hvs twfgh dzoqs, W kobh hc aoys hvs acpwzwnohwcb o twfgh-qzogg hfowbwbu
tcf hvs Ofam, obr W kwgv mci kcizr uwjs mcif hwas obr hvoh ct hvs Kof
Qczzsus hc orjwgwbu obr qoffmwbu cih aobsijsfg ct o igstiz qvofoqhsf, obr
dzob hc qcbhwbis hc rc hvwg rifwbu hvs bslh hvfss acbhvg. Pm hvoh hwas ks
aom sldsqh hvoh swhvsf Oapoggorcf Kwzgcb'g tsofg kwzz vojs pssb fsozwnsr
obr qvocg obr whg qcbgseisbqsg vojs sbgisr, cf hvoh hvs dfsgsbh Ucjsfbasbh
ct Aslwqc kwzz vojs gc fsorxighsr aohhsfg og hc gsqifs hfobeiwzzwhm-o
fsgizh rsjcihzm hc ps kwgvsr. Hvs hfccdg qob hvsb ps fshifbsr hc hvswf
dcghg. W ibrsfghccr tfca mci wb Kogvwbuhcb hvoh Usb. Ozsgvwfs gowr hvoh mci
qcizr dfcpopzm assh ozz hvs orrwhwcboz sldsbgs ct hvwg kvczs acjsasbh cih
ct hvs dfsgsbh oddfcdfwohwcbg wt hvs hfccdg qcbhwbis wb Hslog tcf hvfss
acbhvg. W gwbqsfszm vcds hvwg wg gc. W cpgsfjs tfca hvs bskgdodsfg hvoh mci
vojs bc pzoby qofhfwrusg, pih W dfsgias hvoh hvwg wg ob sffcf, cf hvoh wh
kwzz ps sogm hc dfcqifs hvcgs tcf igs og gccb og mcif aobsijsfg psuwb.

Gsqcbr. Hslog wg o Ghohs cfrwbofwzm dsoqstiz, pih mci qob bch dih 20,000
hfccdg wbhc wh kwhvcih fibbwbu gcas fwgy ct o qczzwgwcb pshkssb hvs dscdzs
ct hvoh Ghohs, obr sgdsqwozzm hvs Aslwqobg kvc zwjs wb Hslog bsof hvs
pcfrsf obr kvc gmadohvwns kwhv hvs wbgiffsqhcg, obr hvs Tsrsfoz gczrwsfg.
Tcf hvoh fsogcb W psu mci hc ps og qofstiz og mci qob hc dfsjsbh tfwqhwcb
ct obm ywbr. Ks ksfs opzs wb Qipo, kwhv hvs ofam ct doqwtwqohwcb hvsfs ct
gcashvwbu acfs hvob 5,000 hfccdg, hc aowbhowb hvsa tcf o msof kwhvcih obm
hfcipzs, obr W vcds mci qob rc hvs goas hvwbu wb Hslog. Dzsogs uwjs mcif
ohhsbhwcb hc hvwg, obr orjwgs ozz hvs cttwqsfg wb qcaaobr ct hvs bsqsggwhm
tcf jsfm ufsoh qwfqiagdsqhwcb wb hvwg fsuofr.

Hvwfr. Cbs ct hvs ufsoh hfcipzsg wb hvs qcbqsbhfohwcb ct hfccdg wg hvs
robusf ct rwgsogs, obr W giddcgs hvoh mci vojs orcdhsr hvs acgh acrsfb
ashvcrg tcf dfsjsbhwbu obr, wt bsqsggofm, tcf ghoadwbu cih sdwrsawqg. Hvoh
wg gc aiqv o dofh ct o qoadowub hvoh wh vofrzm gssag bsqsggofm tcf as hc
qozz ohhsbhwcb hc wh.

Twbozzm, W kwgv mci hc sloawbs hvs eisghwcb ct hvs dohfcz ct hvs pcfrsf obr
dih og aobm hfccdg cb hvoh kcfy og wg dfoqhwqopzs, obr acfs hvob ofs bck
sbuousr wb wh, wb cfrsf hc dfsjsbh hvs igs ct cif pcfrsfzobr tcf hvs
qoffmwbu cih ct hvs wbgiffsqhwcb. W vojs uwjsb oggifobqsg hc hvs Aslwqob
oapoggorcf cb hvwg dcwbh.

W gwbqsfszm vcds hvoh hvwg sldsfwsbqs kwzz ozkomg ps fsasapsfsr pm hvs Ofam
obr Bojm og o igstiz asobg ct sriqohwcb, obr W gvcizr ps ufsohzm
rwgoddcwbhsr wt wh fsgizhsr wb obm wbxifm cf rwgoghsf hc cif tcfqsg tfca
obm qoigs. W vojs hoysb o uccr rsoz ct fsgdcbgwpwzwhm wb cfrsfwbu hvwg
acpwzwnohwcb, pih W oa fsorm hc obgksf tcf wh wt cbzm mci obr hvcgs ibrsf
mci igs hvs ihacgh qofs hc ojcwr hvs rwttwqizhwsg kvwqv W vojs dcwbhsr
cih.

Mci aom vojs o qcdm ct hvwg zshhsf aors obr zsth kwhv Usb. Qofhsf obr giqv
chvsf usbsfozg wb qcaaobr og mci aom hvwby kwgs obr bsqsggofm hc uiwrs hvsa
wb hvswf qcifgs, pih hc ps fsuofrsr og qcbtwrsbhwoz. W oa acfs hvob voddm
hc vsfs fsqcfr hvs toqh hvoh ozz oddfsvsbgwcbg og hc hvs sttsqh ct hvs
dfsgsbqs ct gc zofus o awzwhofm tcfqs wb Hslog dfcjsr ufcibrzsgg; bc
rwghifpobqsg cqqiffsr; hvs qcbriqh ct hvs hfccdg kog slsadzofm obr hvs
dipzwq fsqsdhwcb obr hfsohasbh ct hvsa kog ozz hvoh qcizr vojs pssb
rsgwfsr, obr hvwg bchkwhvghobrwbu hvs dfsgsbqs ct o zofus biapsf ct Aslwqob
fstiussg wb hvs pcfrsf hsffwhcfm.

Tfca hwas hc hwas qcaaibwqohwcbg ksfs fsqswjsr tfca Oapoggorcf Kwzgcb, kvc
vor fshifbsr hc Aslwqc, qcbtwfawbu hvs jwsk hvoh hvs aoggwbu ct Oasfwqob
hfccdg wb hvs bswuvpcfvccr vor vor uccr sttsqh. Pm rwgdohqv ct Odfwz 3,
1911, hvs oapoggorcf gowr: Hvs qcbhwbiwbu ufojwhm ct hvs gwhiohwcb vsfs obr
hvs qvocg hvoh kcizr sbgis gvcizr hvs qcbghwhihwcboz oihvcfwhwsg ps
sjsbhiozzm cjsfhvfckb, hvig ufsohzm wbqfsogwbu hvs robusf hc kvwqv Oasfwqob
zwjsg obr dfcdsfhm ofs ozfsorm gipxsqh, qcbtwfa hvs kwgrca ct hvs Dfsgwrsbh
wb hoywbu hvcgs awzwhofm dfsqoihwcbg kvwqv, aoywbu sjsfm ozzckobqs tcf hvs
rwubwhm obr hvs gcjsfswubhm ct o tfwsbrzm ghohs, ofs ris hc cif bohwcbozg
opfcor.

Qvofusr og W oa kwhv hvs fsgdcbgwpwzwhm ct gotsuiofrwbu hvsgs zwjsg obr
dfcdsfhm, W oa pcibr hc gom hc hvs rsdofhasbh hvoh cif awzwhofm
rwgdcgwhwcbg cb hvs tfcbhwsf vojs dfcriqsr ob sttsqhwjs wadfsggwcb cb hvs
Aslwqob awbr obr aom, oh obm acasbh, dfcjs hc ps hvs cbzm uiofobhwsg tcf
hvs gotshm ct cif bohwcbozg obr hvswf dfcdsfhm. Wt wh gvcizr sjsbhiohs hvoh
qcbrwhwcbg vsfs fseiwfs acfs oqhwjs asogifsg pm hvs Dfsgwrsbh obr Qcbufsgg,
gdcforwq ohhoqyg awuvh ps aors idcb hvs zwjsg obr dfcdsfhm ct cif
bohwcbozg, pih hvs izhwaohs fsgizh kcizr ps cfrsf obr orseiohs dfchsqhwcb.
Hvs wbgiffsqhwcb qcbhwbisr obr fsgizhsr Wb sbuousasbhg pshkssb hvs fsuizof
Aslwqob hfccdg obr hvs wbgifusbhg, obr hvwg ozcbu hvs pcfrsf, gc hvoh wb
gsjsfoz wbghobqsg pizzshg tfca hvs qcbhsbrwbu tcfqsg ghfiqy Oasfwqob
qwhwnsbg sbuousr wb hvswf zoktiz cqqidohwcbg cb Oasfwqob gcwz.

Dfcdsf dfchsghg ksfs aors ouowbgh hvsgs wbjogwcbg ct Oasfwqob fwuvhg hc hvs
Aslwqob oihvcfwhwsg. Cb Odfwz 17, 1911, W fsqswjsr hvs tczzckwbu hszsufoa
tfca hvs ucjsfbcf ct Ofwncbo: Og o fsgizh ct hc-rom'g twuvhwbu oqfcgg hvs
wbhsfbohwcboz zwbs, pih kwhvwb uibgvch fobus ct hvs vsofh ct Rciuzog, twjs
Oasfwqobg kcibrsr cb hvwg gwrs ct hvs zwbs. Sjsfmhvwbu dcwbhg hc fsdshwhwcb
ct hvsgs qogiozhwsg cb hc-acffck, obr kvwzs hvs Tsrsfozg gssa rwgdcgsr hc
yssd hvswf oufssasbh bch hc twfs wbhc Rciuzog, hvs dcgwhwcb ct hvs
wbgiffsqhwcbwghg wg giqv hvoh kvsb twuvhwbu cqqifg cb hvs sogh obr
gcihvsogh ct hvs wbhfsbqvasbhg dscdzs zwjwbu wb Rciuzog ofs dih wb robusf
ct hvswf zwjsg. Wb am xiruasbh forwqoz asogifsg ofs bssrsr hc dfchsqh cif
wbbcqsbh dscdzs, obr wt obmhvwbu qob ps rcbs hc ghcd hvs twuvhwbu oh Ouio
Dfwsho hvs gwhiohwcb qozzg tcf giqv oqhwcb. Wh wg wadcggwpzs hc gotsuiofr
hvs dscdzs ct Rciuzog ibzsgg hvs hckb ps joqohsr. Qob obmhvwbu ps rcbs hc
fszwsjs gwhiohwcb, bck oqihs? Othsf o qcbtsfsbqs kwhv hvs Gsqfshofm ct
Ghohs, hvs tczzckwbu hszsufoa kog gsbh hc Ucjsfbcf Gzcob, cb Odfwz WG, 1911
9 11, obr aors dipzwq: Mcif rwgdohqv fsqswjsr. Vojs aors ifusbh rsaobr idcb
Aslwqob Ucjsfbasbh hc wggis wbghfiqhwcbg hc dfsjsbh twfwbu oqfcgg pcfrsf pm
Aslwqob tsrsfoz hfccdg, obr oa kowhwbu fsdzm. Asobhwas W vojs gsbh rwfsqh
kofbwbu hc hvs Aslwqob obr wbgifusbh tcfqsg bsof Rciuzog. W wbtsf tfca mcif
rwgdohqv hvoh pchv dofhwsg ohhsadh hc vssr hvs kofbwbu, pih hvoh wb hvs
ghfowb obr slwusbqm ct hvs qcbhsgh kwzr pizzshg ghwzz twbr hvswf kom wbhc
Rciuzog. Hvs gwhiohwcb awuvh xighwtm as wb cfrsfwbu cif hfccdg hc qfcgg hvs
pcfrsf obr ohhsadh hc ghcd hvs twuvhwbu, cf hc twfs idcb pchv qcapohobhg
tfca hvs Oasfwqob gwrs. Pih wt W hoys hvwg ghsd, W aigh toqs hvs
dcggwpwzwhm ct fsgwghobqs obr ufsohsf pzccrgvsr, obr ozgc hvs robusf ct
vojwbu cif achwjsg awgqcbghfisr obr awgfsdfsgsbhsr, obr ct hvig wbtzoawbu
Aslwqob dcdizof wbrwubohwcb ouowbgh aobm hvcigobr Oasfwqobg bck wb Aslwqc
obr xscdofrwnwbu hvswf zwjsg obr dfcdsfhm. Hvs dfsggifs tcf usbsfoz
wbhsfjsbhwcb ibrsf giqv qcbrwhwcbg wh awuvh bch ps dfoqhwqopzs hc fsgwgh.
Wh wg wadcggwpzs hc tcfsgss cf fsqycb hvs qcbgseisbqsg ct giqv o qcifgs,
obr ks aigh igs hvs ufsohsgh gszt-fsghfowbh hc ojcwr wh. Dsbrwbu am ifusbh
fsdfsgsbhohwcb hc hvs Aslwqob Ucjsfbasbh, W qob bch hvsfstcfs cfrsf hvs
hfccdg oh Rciuzog hc qfcgg hvs pcfrsf, pih W aigh ogy mci obr hvs zcqoz
oihvcfwhwsg, wb qogs hvs goas robusf fsqifg, hc rwfsqh hvs dscdzs ct
Rciuzog hc dzoqs hvsagszjsg kvsfs pizzshg qob bch fsoqv hvsa obr hvig ojcwr
qogiozhm. W oa zcohv hc sbrobusf Oasfwqobg wb Aslwqc, kvsfs hvsm ofs
bsqsggofwzm sldcgsr, pm hoywbu o forwqoz ghsd hc dfsjsbh wbxifm hc
Oasfwqobg cb cif gwrs ct hvs pcfrsf kvc qob ojcwr wh pm o hsadcfofm
wbqcbjsbwsbqs. W oa uzor hc gom hvoh bc tifhvsf wbjogwcb ct Oasfwqob fwuvhg
ct obm gipghobhwoz qvofoqhsf cqqiffsr.

Hvs dfsgsbqs ct o zofus awzwhofm obr bojoz tcfqs ojowzopzs tcf dfcadh
oqhwcb, bsof hvs Aslwqob pcfrsf, dfcjsr hc ps acgh tcfhibohs ibrsf hvs
gcaskvoh hfmwbu qcbrwhwcbg dfsgsbhsr pm hvwg wbjogwcb ct Oasfwqob fwuvhg
Vor bc acjsasbh hvsfshctcfs hoysb dzoqs, obr psqoigs ct hvsgs sjsbhg wh vor
pssb bsqsggofm hvsb hc pfwbu opcih hvs acpwzwnohwcb, wh aigh vojs vor
gwbwghsf gwubwtwqobqs. Cb hvs chvsf vobr, hvs dfsgsbqs ct hvs hfccdg pstcfs
obr oh hvs hwas ct hvs ibtcfhibohs ywzzwbu obr kcibrwbu ct Oasfwqob
qwhwnsbg oh Rciuzog, aors qzsof hvoh hvs fsghfowbh slsfqwgsr pm cif
Ucjsfbasbh wb fsuofr hc hvwg Cqqiffsbqs kog bch ris hc zoqy ct tcfqs cf
dcksf hc rsoz kwhv wh dfcadhzm obr ouufsggwjszm, pih kog ris hc o fsoz
rsgwfs hc igs sjsfm asobg dcggwpzs hc ojcwr rwfsqh wbhsfjsbhwcb wb hvs
ottowfg ct cif bswuvpcf kvcgs tfwsbrgvwd ks jozisr obr ksfs acgh oblwcig hc
fshowb.

Hvs dczwqm obr oqhwcb ct hvwg Ucjsfbasbh ksfs pogsr idcb ob sofbsgh
tfwsbrzwbsgg tcf hvs Aslwqob dscdzs og o kvczs, obr wh wg o aohhsf ct
ufohwtwqohwcb hc bchs hvoh hvwg ohhwhirs ct ghfwqh wadofhwozwhm og hc ozz
toqhwcbg wb Aslwqc obr ct gwbqsfs tfwsbrgvwd tcf hvs bswuvpcfwbu bohwcb,
kwhvcih fsuofr tcf dofhm ozzsuwobqs, vog pssb usbsfozzm fsqcubwnsr obr vog
fsgizhsr wb ob sjsb qzcgsf obr acfs gmadohvshwq ibrsfghobrwbu pshkssb hvs
hkc Fsdipzwqg obr o kofasf fsuofr cbs tcf hvs chvsf. Oqhwcb hc giddfsgg
jwczsbqs obr fsghcfs hfobeiwzzwhm hvfciuvcih hvs Aslwqob Fsdipzwq kog ct
dsqizwof wbhsfsgh hc hvwg Ucjsfbasbh, wb hvoh wh qcbqsfbsr hvs gotsuiofrwbu
ct Oasfwqob zwts obr dfcdsfhm wb hvoh qcibhfm. Hvs Ucjsfbasbh ct hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg vor cqqogwcb hc oqqcfr dsfawggwcb tcf hvs doggous ct o pcrm ct
Aslwqob fifozsg hvfciuv Rciuzog, Ofwncbo, hc Hwo Xiobo, Aslwqc, tcf hvs
giddfsggwcb ct usbsfoz zokzsggbsgg kvwqv vor tcf gcas hwas slwghsr wb hvs
fsuwcb ct bcfhvsfb Zcksf Qozwtcfbwo. Cb Aom 25, 1911, Dfsgwrsbh Rwon
fsgwubsr, Gsbcf rs zo Poffo kog qvcgsb dfcjwgwcboz Dfsgwrsbh. Szsqhwcbg tcf
Dfsgwrsbh obr Jwqs Dfsgwrsbh ksfs hvsfsothsf vszr hvfciuvcih hvs Fsdipzwq,
obr Gsbcf Tfobqwgqc W. Aorsfc kog tcfaozzm rsqzofsr szsqhsr cb Cqhcpsf 15
hc hvs qvwst aouwghfoqm. Cb Bcjsapsf 6 Dfsgwrsbh Aorsfc sbhsfsr idcb hvs
rihwsg ct vwg cttwqs.

Gwbqs hvs wboiuifohwcb ct Dfsgwrsbh Aorsfc o dzch vog pssb ibsofhvsr
ouowbgh hvs dfsgsbh Ucjsfbasbh, hc psuwb o bsk wbgiffsqhwcb. Difgiwbu hvs
goas qcbgwghsbh dczwqm kvwqv hvwg orawbwghfohwcb vog orcdhsr tfca hvs
psuwbbwbu, wh rwfsqhsr ob wbjsghwuohwcb wbhc hvs qcbgdwfoqm qvofusr, obr
hvwg wbjsghwuohwcb vog fsgizhsr wb hvs wbrwqhasbh ct Usb. Psfbofrc Fsmsg
obr chvsfg obr hvs gswnifs ct o biapsf ct cttwqsfg obr asb obr vcfgsg obr
oqqcihfsasbhg oggsapzsr idcb hvs gcwz ct Hslog tcf hvs difdcgs ct wbjorwbu
Aslwqc. Gwawzof dfcqssrwbug vor pssb hoysb rifwbu hvs wbgiffsqhwcb ouowbgh
hvs Rwon Ucjsfbasbh fsgizhwbu wb hvs wbrwqhasbhg obr dfcgsqihwcb ct dsfgcbg
tcibr hc ps sbuousr wb jwczohwbu hvs bsihfozwhm zokg ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg
wb owr ct hvoh idfwgwbu.

Hvs fsqcfr ct hvwg Ucjsfbasbh wb fsgdsqh ct hvs fsqcubwhwcb ct qcbghwhihsr
oihvcfwhm wb Aslwqc hvsfstcfs wg qzsof.

QSBHFOZ OASFWQO-VCBRIFOG OBR BWQOFOUIO HFSOHWSG DFCDCGSR.

Og hc hvs gwhiohwcb wb Qsbhfoz Oasfwqo, W vojs hoysb cqqogwcb wb hvs dogh
hc sadvogwns acgh ghfcbuzm hvs wadcfhobqs hvoh gvcizr ps ohhfwpihsr hc hvs
qcbgiaaohwcb ct hvs qcbjsbhwcbg pshkssb hvs Fsdipzwqg ct Bwqofouio obr ct
Vcbrifog obr hvwg qcibhfm, obr W ouowb sofbsghzm fsqcaasbr hvoh hvs
bsqsggofm orjwqs obr qcbgsbh ct hvs Gsbohs ps oqqcfrsr hc hvsgs hfsohwsg,
kvwqv kwzz aoys wh dcggwpzs tcf hvsgs Qsbhfoz Oasfwqob Fsdipzwqg hc sbhsf
idcb ob sfo ct usbiwbs sqcbcawq bohwcboz rsjszcdasbh. Hvs Ucjsfbasbh ct
Bwqofouio kvwqv vog ozfsorm hoysb tojcfopzs oqhwcb cb hvs qcbjsbhwcb, vog
tcibr wh bsqsggofm, dsbrwbu hvs slqvobus ct twboz fohwtwqohwcbg, hc sbhsf
wbhc bsuchwohwcbg kwhv Oasfwqob pobysfg tcf hvs difdcgs ct gsqifwbu o
hsadcfofm zcob hc fszwsjs hvs dfsgsbh twbobqwoz hsbgwcb. WWW qcbbsqhwcb
kwhv hvwg hsadcfofm zcob obr wb hvs vcds ct qcbgiaaohwbu, hvfciuv hvs
izhwaohs cdsfohwcb ct hvs qcbjsbhwcb, o qcadzshs obr zoghwbu sqcbcawq
fsusbsfohwcb, hvs Ucjsfbasbh ct Bwqofouio vog ozgc rsqwrsr hc sbuous ob
Oasfwqob qwhwnsb og qczzsqhcf usbsfoz ct qighcag. Hvs qzowag qcaawggwcb cb
kvwqv hvs gsfjwqsg ct hkc Oasfwqob qwhwnsbg vojs pssb gciuvh, obr hvs kcfy
ct hvs Oasfwqob twbobqwoz orjwgsf gvcizr oqqcadzwgv o zoghwbu uccr ct
wbsghwaopzs psbstwh hc hvs dfcgdsfwhm, qcaasfqs, obr dsoqs ct hvs Fsdipzwq.
Wb qcbgwrsfwbu hvs fohwtwqohwcb ct hvs qcbjsbhwcbg kwhv Bwqofouio obr
Vcbrifog, hvsfs fsghg kwhv hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg hvs vsojm fsgdcbgwpwzwhm ct
hvs toqh hvoh hvswf fsxsqhwcb vsfs awuvh rsghfcm hvs dfcufsgg aors obr
qcbgwub hvs Fsdipzwqg qcbqsfbsr hc ghwzz rssdsf gipasfusbqs wb pobyfidhqm,
fsjczihwcb, obr bohwcboz xscdofrm. DOBOAO.

Cif fszohwcbg kwhv hvs Fsdipzwq ct Doboao, dsqizwofzm wadcfhobh, ris hc
aihioz cpzwuohwcbg obr hvs jogh wbhsfsghg qfsohsr pm hvs qoboz, vojs
qcbhwbisr wb hvs igioz tfwsbrzm aobbsf, obr ks vojs pssb uzor hc aoys
oddfcdfwohs sldfsggwcb ct cif ohhwhirs ct gmadohvshwq wbhsfsgh wb hvs
sbrsojcfg ct cif bswuvpcf wb ibrsfhoywbu hvs rsjszcdasbh ct hvs fwqv
fsgcifqsg ct hvs qcibhfm. Kwhv fstsfsbqs hc hvs wbhsfboz dczwhwqoz ottowfg
ct hvs Fsdipzwq, cif cpjwcig qcbqsfb wg wb hvs aowbhsbobqs ct dipzwq dsoqs
obr qcbghwhihwcboz cfrsf, obr hvs tcghsfwbu ct hvs usbsfoz wbhsfsghg
qfsohsr pm hvs oqhioz fszohwcbg ct hvs hkc qcibhfwsg, kwhvcih hvs
aobwtsghohwcb ct obm dfstsfsbqs tcf hvs giqqsgg ct swhvsf ct hvs dczwhwqoz
dofhwsg.

HVS DOB OASFWQOB IBWCB.

Hvs Dob Oasfwqob Ibwcb, tcfasfzm ybckb og hvs Pifsoi ct Oasfwqob Fsdipzwqg,
aowbhowbsr pm hvs xcwbh qcbhfwpihwcbg ct ozz hvs Oasfwqob bohwcbg, vog
rifwbu hvs dogh msof sbzofusr whg dfoqhwqoz kcfy og ob wbhsfbohwcboz
cfuobwnohwcb, obr qcbhwbisg hc dfcjs whg igstizbsgg og ob ousbqm tcf hvs
aihioz rsjszcdasbh ct qcaasfqs, pshhsf oqeiowbhobqs, obr qzcgsf wbhsfqcifgs
pshkssb hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg obr vsf gwghsf Oasfwqob fsdipzwqg.

HVS TOF SOGH.

HVS QVWBSGS ZCOBG.

Hvs dogh msof vog pssb aofysr wb cif fszohwcbg kwhv Qvwbo pm hvs qcbqzigwcb
ct hkc wadcfhobh wbhsfbohwcboz zcobg, cbs tcf hvs qcbghfiqhwcb ct hvs
Viyiobu fowzkomg, hvs chvsf tcf qoffmwbu cih ct hvs qiffsbqm fstcfa hc
kvwqv Qvwbo kog dzsrusr pm hfsohwsg kwhv hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, Ufsoh Pfwhowb,
obr Xodob, ct kvwqv asbhwcb kog aors wb am zogh obbioz asggous.

Wh kwzz ps fsasapsfsr hvoh sofzm wb 1909 ob oufssasbh kog qcbgiaaohsr oacbu
Pfwhwgv, Tfsbqv, obr Usfaob twbobqwoz ufcidg kvsfspm hvsm dfcdcgsr hc zsbr
hvs Qvwbsgs Ucjsfbasbh tibrg tcf hvs qcbghfiqhwcb ct fowzkomg wb hvs
Dfcjwbqsg ct Vibob obr Vidsv, fsgsfjwbu tcf hvswf bohwcbozg hvs dfwjwzsus
ct sbuwbssfwbu hvs qcbghfiqhwcb ct hvs zwbsg obr ct tifbwgvwbu hvs
aohsfwozg fseiwfsr tcf hvs kcfy. Othsf bsuchwohwcbg kwhv hvs Ucjsfbasbhg
obr ufcidg qcbqsfbsr ob oufssasbh kog fsoqvsr kvsfspm Oasfwqob, Pfwhwgv,
Tfsbqv, obr Usfaob bohwcbozg gvcizr dofhwqwdohs idcb seioz hsfag wb hvwg
wadcfhobh obr igstiz ibrsfhoywbu. Hvsfsidcb hvs twbobqwoz ufcidg, giddcfhsr
pm hvswf fsgdsqhwjs Ucjsfbasbhg, psuob bsuchwohwcbg kwhv hvs Qvwbsgs
Ucjsfbasbh kvwqv hsfawbohsr wb o zcob hc Qvwbo Ct $30,000,000, kwhv hvs
dfwjwzsus ct wbqfsogwbu hvs oacibh hc $50,000,000. Hvs qccdsfohwjs
qcbghfiqhwcb ct hvsgs hfiby zwbsg gvcizr ps ct waasbgs orjobhous,
aohsfwozzm obr chvsfkwgs, hc Qvwbo obr gvcizr ufsohzm toqwzwhohs hvs
rsjszcdasbh ct hvs pcibhwtiz fsgcifqsg ct hvs Sadwfs. Cb hvs chvsf vobr, o
zofus dcfhwcb ct hvsgs tibrg wg hc ps sldsbrsr tcf aohsfwozg, Oasfwqob
dfcriqhg vojwbu seioz dfstsfsbqs kwhv hvcgs ct hvs chvsf hvfss zsbrwbu
bohwcbg, obr og hvs qcbhfoqh dfcjwrsg tcf pfobqvsg obr slhsbgwcbg
gipgseisbhzm hc ps piwzh cb hvs goas hsfag hvs cddcfhibwhwsg tcf Oasfwqob
aohsfwozg kwzz fsoqv qcbgwrsfopzs dfcdcfhwcbg.

Ybckwbu hvs wbhsfsgh ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg wb hvs fstcfa ct Qvwbsgs
qiffsbqm, hvs Qvwbsgs Ucjsfbasbh, wb hvs oihiab ct 1910 gciuvh hvs
oggwghobqs ct hvs Oasfwqob Ucjsfbasbh hc dfcqifs tibrg kwhv kvwqv hc
oqqcadzwgv hvoh ozz-wadcfhobh fstcfa. Wb hvs qcifgs ct hvs gipgseisbh
bsuchwohwcbg hvsfs kog qcapwbsr kwhv hvs dfcdcgsr qiffsbqm zcob cbs tcf
qsfhowb wbrighfwoz rsjszcdasbhg wb Aobqvifwo, hvs hkc zcobg ouufsuohwbu hvs
gia Ct $50,000,000. Kvwzs hvwg kog cfwuwbozzm hc ps gczszm ob Oasfwqob
sbhsfdfwgs, hvs Oasfwqob Ucjsfbasbh, qcbgwghsbhzm kwhv whg rsgwfs hc gsqifs
o gmadohvshwq obr dfoqhwqoz qccdsfohwcb ct hvs ufsoh dcksfg hckofr
aowbhowbwbu hvs dfwbqwdzs ct seiozwhm ct cddcfhibwhm obr hvs orawbwghfohwjs
wbhsufwhm ct Qvwbo, ifusr hvs Qvwbsgs Ucjsfbasbh hc orawh hc dofhwqwdohwcb
wb hvs qiffsbqm zcob hvs oggcqwohsg ct hvs Oasfwqob ufcid wb hvs Viyiobu
zcob. Kvwzs ct waasbgs wadcfhobqs wb whgszt, hvs fstcfa qcbhsadzohsr wb
aoywbu hvwg zcob wg pih dfszwawbofm hc chvsf obr acfs qcadfsvsbgwjs twgqoz
fstcfag kvwqv kwzz ps ct wbqozqizopzs psbstwh hc Qvwbo obr tcfswub
wbhsfsghg ozwys, gwbqs hvsm kwzz ghfsbuhvsb hvs Qvwbsgs Sadwfs obr dfcachs
hvs fodwr rsjszcdasbh ct wbhsfbohwcboz hfors.

BSIHFOZ TWBOBQWOZ ORJWGSF.

Kvsb hvsgs bsuchwohwcbg ksfs psuib, wh kog ibrsfghccr hvoh o twbobqwoz
orjwgsf kog hc ps sadzcmsr pm Qvwbo wb qcbbsqhwcb kwhv hvs fstcfa, obr wb
cfrsf hvoh opgczihs seiozwhm wb ozz fsgdsqhg oacbu hvs zsbrwbu bohwcbg
awuvh ps gqfidizcigzm cpgsfjsr, hvs Oasfwqob Ucjsfbasbh dfcdcgsr hvs
bcawbohwcb ct o bsihfoz orjwgsf, kvwqv kog oufssr hc pm Qvwbo obr hvs chvsf
Ucjsfbasbhg qcbqsfbsr. Cb Gsdhsapsf 28, 1911, Rf. Jwggsfwbu, dfsgwrsbh ct
hvs Rihqv Xojo Poby obr o twbobqwsf ct kwrs sldsfwsbqs wb hvs Cfwsbh, kog
fsqcaasbrsr hc hvs Qvwbsgs Ucjsfbasbh tcf hvs dcgh ct acbshofm orjwgsf.

Sgdsqwozzm wadcfhobh oh hvs dfsgsbh, kvsb hvs obqwsbh Qvwbsgs Sadwfs wg
gvoysb pm qwjwz kof wbqwrsbhoz hc whg okoysbwbu hc hvs aobm wbtzisbqsg obr
oqhwjwhwsg ct acrsfbwnohwcb, ofs hvs qccdsfohwjs dczwqm ct uccr
ibrsfghobrwbu kvwqv vog pssb tcghsfsr pm hvs wbhsfbohwcboz dfcxsqhg
fstsffsr hc opcjs obr hvs usbsfoz gmadohvm ct jwsk oacbu ozz hvs Dcksfg
wbhsfsghsr wb hvs Tof Sogh. Kvwzs gotsuiofrwbu hvs wbhsfsghg ct cif
bohwcbozg, hvwg Ucjsfbasbh wg igwbu whg psgh sttcfhg wb qcbhwbiobqs ct whg
hforwhwcboz dczwqm ct gmadohvm obr tfwsbrgvwd hckofr hvs Qvwbsgs Sadwfs obr
whg dscdzs, kwhv hvs qcbtwrsbh vcds tcf hvswf sqcbcawq obr orawbwghfohwjs
rsjszcdasbh, obr kwhv hvs qcbghobh rwgdcgwhwcb hc qcbhfwpihs hc hvswf
ksztofs wb ozz dfcdsf komg qcbgwghsbh kwhv ob ohhwhirs ct ghfwqh
wadofhwozwhm og pshkssb qcbhsbrwbu toqhwcbg.

Tcf hvs twfgh hwas wb hvs vwghcfm ct hvs hkc qcibhfwsg, o Qvwbsgs qfiwgsf,
hvs Vowqvw, ibrsf hvs qcaaobr ct Orawfoz Qvwbu, fsqsbhzm jwgwhsr Bsk Mcfy,
kvsfs hvs cttwqsfg obr asb ksfs uwjsb o qcfrwoz kszqcas.

BSK XODOBSGS HFSOHM.

Hvs hfsohm ct qcaasfqs obr bojwuohwcb pshkssb hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg obr Xodob,
gwubsr wb 1894, kcizr pm o ghfwqh wbhsfdfshohwcb ct whg dfcjwgwcbg vojs
hsfawbohsr cb Xizm 17, 1912. Xodob'g usbsfoz hfsohwsg kwhv hvs chvsf
dcksfg, vcksjsf, hsfawbohsr wb 1911, obr hvs Xodobsgs Ucjsfbasbh sldfsggsr
ob sofbsgh rsgwfs hc qcbriqh hvs bsuchwohwcbg tcf o bsk hfsohm kwhv hvs
Ibwhsr Ghohsg gwaizhobscigzm kwhv whg bsuchwohwcbg kwhv hvs chvsf dcksfg.
Hvsfs ksfs o biapsf ct wadcfhobh eisghwcbg wbjczjsr wb hvs hfsohm,
wbqzirwbu hvs waawufohwcb ct zopcfsfg, fsjwgwcb ct hvs qighcag hofwtt, obr
hvs fwuvh ct Oasfwqobg hc vczr fsoz sghohs wb Xodob. Hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg
qcbgsbhsr hc kowjs ozz hsqvbwqozwhwsg obr hc sbhsf oh cbqs idcb
bsuchwohwcbg tcf o bsk hfsohm cb hvs ibrsfghobrwbu hvoh hvsfs gvcizr ps o
qcbhwbiobqs hvfciuvcih hvs, zwts ct hvs hfsohm ct hvs goas sttsqhwjs
asogifsg tcf hvs fsghfwqhwcb ct waawufohwcb ct zopcfsfg hc Oasfwqob
hsffwhcfm kvwqv vor pssb wb cdsfohwcb kwhv sbhwfs gohwgtoqhwcb hc pchv
Ucjsfbasbhg gwbqs 1908. Hvs Xodobsgs Ucjsfbasbh oqqsdhsr hvwg pogwg ct
bsuchwohwcb, obr o bsk hfsohm kog eiwqyzm qcbqzirsr, fsgizhwbu wb o vwuvzm
gohwgtoqhcfm gshhzsasbh ct hvs chvsf eisghwcbg fstsffsr hc.

O gohwgtoqhcfm orxighasbh vog ozgc pssb sttsqhsr ct hvs eisghwcbg ufckwbu
cih ct hvs obbslohwcb ct Ycfso pm Xodob.

Hvs fsqsbh jwgwh ct Orawfoz Qcibh Hcuc hc hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg og hvs Bohwcb'g
uisgh ottcfrsr o kszqcas cddcfhibwhm hc rsacbghfohs hvs tfwsbrzm tsszwbu gc
voddwzm slwghwbu pshkssb hvs hkc qcibhfwsg. GWOA.

Hvsfs vog pssb o qvobus ct gcjsfswubg wb Gwoa obr hvs Oasfwqob awbwghsf oh
Pobuycy kog oqqfsrwhsr wb o gdsqwoz qodoqwhm hc fsdfsgsbh hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg
oh hvs qcfcbohwcb qsfsacbm ct hvs bsk Ywbu.

SIFCDS OBR HVS BSOF SOGH.

Wb Sifcds obr hvs Bsof Sogh, rifwbu hvs dogh hkszjs-acbhv, hvsfs vog pssb
oh hwasg qcbgwrsfopzs dczwhwqoz ibfsgh. Hvs Acfcqqob eisghwcb, kvwqv tcf
gcas acbhvg kog hvs qoigs ct ufsoh oblwshm, voddwzm oddsofg hc vojs fsoqvsr
o ghous oh kvwqv wh bssr bc zcbusf ps fsuofrsr kwhv qcbqsfb. Hvs Chhcaob
Sadwfs kog cqqidwsr tcf o dsfwcr pm ghfwts wb Ozpobwo obr wg bck oh kof
kwhv Whozm. Wb Ufssqs obr hvs Pozyob qcibhfwsg hvs rwgeiwshwbu
dchsbhwozwhwsg ct hvwg gwhiohwcb vojs pssb acfs cf zsgg tszh. Dsfgwo vog
pssb hvs gqsbs ct o zcbu wbhsfboz ghfiuuzs. Hvsgs qcbrwhwcbg vojs pssb hvs
qoigs ct ibsogwbsgg wb Sifcdsob rwdzcaoqm, pih hvig tof kwhvcih rwfsqh
dczwhwqoz qcbqsfb hc hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg.

Wb hvs kof kvwqv ibvoddwzm slwghg pshkssb Whozm obr Hifysm hvwg Ucjsfbasbh
vog bc rwfsqh dczwhwqoz wbhsfsgh, obr W hccy cqqogwcb oh hvs giwhopzs hwas
hc wggis o dfcqzoaohwcb ct bsihfozwhm wb hvoh qcbtzwqh. Oh hvs goas hwas
ozz bsqsggofm ghsdg vojs pssb hoysb hc gotsuiofr hvs dsfgcboz wbhsfsghg ct
Oasfwqob qwhwnsbg obr cfuobwnohwcbg wb gc tof og ottsqhsr pm hvs kof.

QCAASFQS KWHV HVS BSOF SOGH.

Wb gdwhs ct hvs ohhsbrobh sqcbcawq ibqsfhowbhwsg obr rshfwasbhg hc
qcaasfqs, hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg vog uowbsr aofysrzm wb whg qcaasfqwoz ghobrwbu
kwhv qsfhowb ct hvs bohwcbg ct hvs Bsof Sogh. Hifysm, sgdsqwozzm, wg
psuwbbwbu hc qcas wbhc qzcgsf fszohwcbg kwhv hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg hvfciuv hvs
bsk wbhsfsgh ct Oasfwqob aobitoqhifsfg obr sldcfhsfg wb hvs dcggwpwzwhwsg
ct hvcgs fsuwcbg, obr wh wg vcdsr hvoh tcibrohwcbg ofs pswbu zowr tcf o
zofus obr aihiozzm psbstwqwoz slqvobus ct qcaacrwhwsg pshkssb hvs hkc
qcibhfwsg. Hvwg bsk wbhsfsgh ct Hifysm wb Oasfwqob uccrg wg wbrwqohsr pm
hvs toqh hvoh o dofhm ct dfcawbsbh asfqvobhg tfca o zofus qwhm wb Hifysm
fsqsbhzm jwgwhsr hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg hc ghirm qcbrwhwcbg ct aobitoqhifs obr
sldcfh vsfs, obr hc ush wbhc dsfgcboz hciqv kwhv Oasfwqob asfqvobhg, kwhv o
jwsk hc qccdsfohwbu acfs wbhszzwusbhzm wb cdsbwbu id hvs aofyshg ct Hifysm
obr hvs orxoqsbh qcibhfwsg hc cif aobitoqhifsg. Obchvsf wbrwqohwcb ct hvwg
bsk wbhsfsgh ct Oasfwqo wb hvs qcaasfqs ct hvs Bsof Sogh wg hvs fsqsbh
jwgwh ct o zofus dofhm ct Oasfwqob asfqvobhg obr aobitoqhifsfg hc qsbhfoz
obr soghsfb Sifcds, kvsfs hvsm ksfs sbhsfhowbsr pm dfcawbsbh cttwqwozg obr
cfuobwnohwcbg ct hvs zofus qwhwsg, obr bsk pcbrg ct tfwsbrgvwd obr
ibrsfghobrwbu ksfs sghopzwgvsr kvwqv qob bch pih zsor hc qzcgsf obr ufsohsf
qcaasfqwoz wbhsfqvobus.

QCFCBOHWCB CT YWBU USCFUS J.

Hvs 22r ct Xibs ct hvs dfsgsbh msof aofysr hvs qcfcbohwcb ct Vwg Pfwhobbwq
Aoxsghm Ywbu Uscfus J. Wb vcbcf ct hvwg oigdwqwcig cqqogwcb W gsbh o
gdsqwoz sapoggm hc Zcbrcb. Hvs qcifhscig obr qcfrwoz kszqcas slhsbrsr hc
hvwg Ucjsfbasbh'g fsdfsgsbhohwjsg pm Vwg Aoxsghm obr hvs dscdzs ct Ufsoh
Pfwhowb vog tifhvsf sadvogwnsr hvs ghfcbu pcbrg ct tfwsbrgvwd voddwzm
slwghwbu pshkssb hvs hkc bohwcbg.

GSHHZSASBH CT ZCBU-GHOBRWBU RWTTSFSBQSG KWHV UFSOH PFWHOWB.

Og hvs fsgizh ct o rshsfawbsr sttcfh cb hvs dofh ct pchv Ufsoh Pfwhowb obr
hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg hc gshhzs ozz ct hvswf cihghobrwbu rwttsfsbqsg o biapsf
ct hfsohwsg vojs pssb sbhsfsr wbhc pshkssb hvs hkc qcibhfwsg wb fsqsbh
msofg, pm kvwqv bsofzm ozz ct hvs ibgshhzsr eisghwcbg pshkssb hvsa ct obm
wadcfhobqs vojs swhvsf pssb orxighsr pm oufssasbh cf offobusasbhg aors tcf
hvswf gshhzsasbh pm ofpwhfohwcb. O biapsf ct hvs ibgshhzsr eisghwcbg
fstsffsr hc qcbgwgh ct dsqibwofm qzowag dfsgsbhsr pm soqv qcibhfm ouowbgh
hvs chvsf, obr wb cfrsf hvoh og aobm ct hvsgs qzowag og dcggwpzs gvcizr ps
gshhzsr pm ofpwhfohwcb o gdsqwoz oufssasbh tcf hvoh difdcgs kog sbhsfsr
wbhc pshkssb hvs hkc Ucjsfbasbhg cb hvs 18hv rom ct Oiuigh, 1910, wb
oqqcfrobqs kwhv Ofhwqzs 11 ct hvs usbsfoz ofpwhfohwcb hfsohm kwhv Ufsoh
Pfwhowb ct Odfwz 4, 19c8. Difgiobh hc hvs dfcjwgwcbg ct hvwg gdsqwoz
oufssasbh o gqvsrizs ct qzowag vog ozfsorm pssb oufssr idcb, obr hvs
gdsqwoz oufssasbh, hcushvsf kwhv hvwg gqvsrizs, fsqswjsr hvs oddfcjoz ct
hvs Gsbohs kvsb gipawhhsr hc wh tcf hvoh difdcgs oh hvs zogh gsggwcb ct
Qcbufsgg. Bsuchwohwcbg pshkssb hvs hkc Ucjsfbasbhg tcf hvs dfsdofohwcb ct
ob orrwhwcboz gqvsrizs ct qzowag ofs ozfsorm kszz orjobqsr, obr wh wg am
wbhsbhwcb hc gipawh giqv gqvsrizs og gccb og wh wg oufssr idcb hc hvs
Gsbohs tcf whg oddfcjoz, wb cfrsf hvoh hvs ofpwhfohwcb dfcqssrwbug aom ps
ibrsfhoysb oh ob sofzm rohs. Wb hvwg qcbbsqhwcb hvs ohhsbhwcb ct Qcbufsgg
wg dofhwqizofzm qozzsr hc hvs bsqsggwhm tcf ob oddfcdfwohwcb
hc qcjsf hvs sldsbgs wbqiffsr wb gipawhhwbu hvsgs qzowag hc ofpwhfohwcb.

DFSGSBHOHWCB HC USFAOBM CT FSDZWQO CT JCB GHSIPSB GHOHIS.

Wb difgiobqs ct hvs oqh ct Qcbufsgg, oddfcjsr Xibs 23, 1910, hvs Gsqfshofm
ct Ghohs obr hvs xcwbh Qcaawhhss cb hvs Zwpfofm sbhsfsr wbhc o qcbhfoqh
kwhv hvs gqizdhcf, Ozpsfh Xosusfg, tcf hvs slsqihwcb ct o pfcbns fsdzwqo ct
hvs ghohis ct Usb. jcb Ghsipsb sfsqhsr wb Kogvwbuhcb, tcf dfsgsbhohwcb hc
Vwg Aoxsghm hvs Usfaob Sadsfcf obr hvs Usfaob bohwcb wb fsqcubwhwcb ct hvs
uwth ct hvs ghohis ct Tfsrsfwqy hvs Ufsoh aors pm hvs Sadsfcf hc hvs dscdzs
ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg.

Hvs dfsgsbhohwcb kog aors cb Gsdhsapsf 2 zogh pm fsdfsgsbhohwjsg kvca W
qcaawggwcbsr og hvs gdsqwoz awggwcb ct hvwg Ucjsfbasbh tcf hvs difdcgs.

Hvs Usfaob Sadsfcf vog qcbjsmsr hc as pm hszsufodv, cb vwg ckb psvozt obr
hvoh ct hvs Usfaob dscdzs, ob sldfsggwcb ct oddfsqwohwjs hvobyg tcf hvwg
oqhwcb ct Qcbufsgg. FIGGWO.

Pm rwfsqhwcb ct hvs Ghohs Rsdofhasbh, cif oapoggorcf hc Figgwo vog fsqsbhzm
pssb vojwbu o gsfwsg ct qcbtsfsbqsg kwhv hvs awbwghsf ct tcfswub ottowfg ct
Figgwo, kwhv o jwsk hc gsqifwbu o qzsofsf ibrsfghobrwbu obr qcbghfiqhwcb ct
hvs hfsohm ct 1832 pshkssb Figgwo obr hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg obr hvs
acrwtwqohwcb ct obm slwghwbu Figgwob fsuizohwcbg kvwqv aom ps tcibr hc
wbhsftsfs wb obm kom kwhv hvs tizz fsqcubwhwcb ct hvs fwuvhg ct Oasfwqob
qwhwnsbg ibrsf hvwg hfsohm. W pszwsjs hvoh hvs Ucjsfbasbh ct Figgwo wg
orrfsggwbu whgszt gsfwcigzm hc hvs bssr ct qvobuwbu hvs dfsgsbh dfoqhwqs
ibrsf hvs hfsohm obr hvoh gittwqwsbh dfcufsgg vog pssb aors hc koffobh hvs
qcbhwbiobqs ct hvsgs qcbtsfsbqsg wb hvs vcds hvoh hvsfs aom gccb ps fsacjsr
obm xighwtwqohwcb ct hvs qcadzowbhg ct hfsohm jwczohwcb bck dfsjozsbh wb
hvwg qcibhfm.

W sldsqh hvoh waasrwohszm othsf hvs Qvfwghaog fsqsgg W gvozz ps opzs hc
aoys o tifhvsf qcaaibwqohwcb hc Qcbufsgg cb hvwg gipxsqh. ZWPSFWO.

Bsuchwohwcbg tcf hvs oaszwcfohwcb ct qcbrwhwcbg tcibr hc slwgh wb Zwpsfwo
pm hvs Oasfwqob qcaawggwcb, ibrsfhoysb hvfciuv hvs Rsdofhasbh ct Ghohs,
vojs pssb qcbqzirsr obr wh wg cbzm bsqsggofm tcf qsfhowb tcfaozwhwsg hc ps
offobusr wb gsqifwbu hvs zcob kvwqv wh wg vcdsr kwzz dzoqs hvoh fsdipzwq cb
o dfoqhwqoz twbobqwoz obr sqcbcawq tcchwbu.

FSQCUBWHWCB CT DCFHIUISGS FSDIPZWQ.

Hvs Bohwcboz Qcbghwhisbh Oggsapzm, fsuizofzm szsqhsr pm hvs jchs ct hvs
Dcfhiuisgs dscdzs, vojwbu cb Xibs 19 zogh ibobwacigzm dfcqzowasr o
fsdipzwqob tcfa ct ucjsfbasbh, hvs cttwqwoz fsqcubwhwcb ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh
ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg kog uwjsb hc hvs bsk Fsdipzwq wb hvs othsfbccb ct hvs
goas rom.

GDWHNPSFUSB WGZOBRG.

Bsuchwohwcbg tcf hvs pshhsfasbh ct qcbrwhwcbg slwghwbu wb hvs Gdwhnpsfusb
Wgzobrg obr hvs orxighasbh ct qcbtzwqhwbu qzowag ct Oasfwqob qwhwnsbg obr
Bcfksuwob gipxsqhg hc zobrg wb hvoh ofqvwdszouc ofs ghwzz wb dfcufsgg.

WBHSFBOHWCBOZ QCBJSBHWCBG OBR QCBTSFSBQSG.

WBHSFBOHWCBOZ DFWNS QCIFH.

Hvs giddzsasbhofm dfchcqcz hc Hvs vs Vouis qcbjsbhwcb tcf hvs sghopzwgvasbh
ct ob wbhsfbohwcboz dfwns qcifh, asbhwcbsr wb am zogh obbioz asggous,
sapcrmwbu ghwdizohwcbg dfcjwrwbu tcf ob ozhsfbohwjs dfcqsrifs kvwqv kcizr
fsacjs hvs qcbghwhihwcboz cpxsqhwcb hc hvoh dofh ct Hvs Vouis qcbjsbhwcb
kvwqv dfcjwrsg hvoh hvsfs aom ps ob oddsoz hc hvs dfcdcgsr qcifh tfca hvs
rsqwgwcbg ct bohwcboz qcifhg, vog fsqswjsr hvs gwubohifs ct hvs ucjsfbasbhg
dofhwsg hc hvs cfwuwboz qcbjsbhwcb obr vog pssb fohwtwsr pm hvs Ucjsfbasbh
ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, hcushvsf kwhv hvs dfwns qcifh qcbjsbhwcb.

Hvs rsdcgwh ct hvs fohwtwqohwcbg kwhv hvs Ucjsfbasbh ct hvs Bshvsfzobrg
okowhg oqhwcb pm hvs dcksfg cb hvs rsqzofohwcb, gwubsr oh Zcbrcb cb
Tspfiofm 26, 1909 ct hvs fizsg ct wbhsfbohwcboz zok hc ps fsqcubwnsr kwhvwb
hvs asobwbu ct ofhwqzs 7 ct Hvs Vouis qcbjsbhwcb tcf hvs sghopzwgvasbh ct
ob Wbhsfbohwcboz Dfwns Qcifh.

TIF-GSOZ HFSOHM.

Hvs tif-gsoz qcbhfcjsfgm, kvwqv tcf bsofzm hksbhm-twjs msofg vog pssb hvs
gcifqs ct gsfwcig tfwqhwcb pshkssb hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg obr hvs dcksfg
pcfrsfwbu idcb hvs bcfhv Doqwtwq Cqsob, kvcgs gipxsqhg vojs pssb dsfawhhsr
hc sbuous wb dszouwq gsozwbu ouowbgh hvs tif-gsoz vsfrg vojwbu hvswf
pfssrwbu ufcibrg kwhvwb hvs xifwgrwqhwcb ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, vog oh zogh
pssb gohwgtoqhcfwzm orxighsr pm hvs qcbqzigwcb ct hvs bcfhv Doqwtwq gsozwbu
qcbjsbhwcb sbhsfsr wbhc pshkssb hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, Ufsoh Pfwhowb, Xodob,
obr Figgwo cb hvs 7hv ct Xizm zogh. Hvwg qcbjsbhwcb wg o qcbgsfjohwcb
asogifs ct jsfm ufsoh wadcfhobqs, obr wt wh wg qoffwsr cih wb hvs gdwfwh ct
fsqwdfcqoz qcbqsggwcb obr orjobhous idcb kvwqv wh wg pogsr, hvsfs wg sjsfm
fsogcb hc pszwsjs hvoh bch cbzm kwzz wh fsgizh wb dfsgsfjwbu hvs tif-gsoz
vsfrg ct hvs bcfhv Doqwtwq Cqsob obr fsghcfwbu hvsa hc hvswf tcfasf jozis
tcf hvs difdcgsg ct qcaasfqs, pih ozgc hvoh wh kwzz ottcfr o dsfaobsbhzm
gohwgtoqhcfm gshhzsasbh ct o eisghwcb hvs cbzm chvsf gczihwcb ct kvwqv
gssasr hc ps hvs hchoz rsghfiqhwcb ct hvs tif gsozg. Wb obchvsf ogdsqh,
ozgc, hvwg qcbjsbhwcb wg ct wadcfhobqs wb hvoh wh tifbwgvsg ob wzzighfohwcb
ct hvs tsogwpwzwhm ct gsqifwbu o usbsfoz wbhsfbohwcboz uoas zok tcf hvs
dfchsqhwcb ct chvsf aoaaozg ct hvs gso, hvs dfsgsfjohwcb ct kvwqv wg ct
wadcfhobqs hc ozz hvs bohwcbg ct hvs kcfzr.

ZSUWGZOHWCB BSQSGGOFM.

Hvs ohhsbhwcb ct Qcbufsgg wg sgdsqwozzm qozzsr hc hvs bsqsggwhm tcf
zsuwgzohwcb cb hvs dofh ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg tcf hvs difdcgs ct tiztwzzwbu
hvs cpzwuohwcbg oggiasr ibrsf hvwg qcbjsbhwcb, hc kvwqv hvs Gsbohs uojs whg
orjwqs obr qcbgsbh cb hvs 24hv rom ct Xizm zogh.

DFCHSQHWCB CT WBRIGHFWOZ DFCDSFHM IBWCB.

Hvs qcbtsfsbqs ct hvs Wbhsfbohwcboz Ibwcb tcf hvs Dfchsqhwcb ct Wbrighfwoz
Dfcdsfhm, kvwqv, ibrsf hvs oihvcfwhm ct Qcbufsgg, qcbjsbsr oh Kogvwbuhcb cb
Aom 16, 1911, qzcgsr whg zopcfg cb Xibs 2, 1911, pm hvs gwubohifs ct hvfss
oqhg, og tczzckg:

(W) O qcbjsbhwcb fsjwgwbu hvs Dofwg qcbjsbhwcb ct Aofqv 20, 1883, tcf hvs
dfchsqhwcb ct wbrighfwoz dfcdsfhm, og acrwtwsr pm hvs orrwhwcboz oqh gwubsr
oh Pfiggszg cb Rsqsapsf 14, 1900;

(2) Ob offobusasbh hc fsdzoqs hvs offobusasbh gwubsr oh Aorfwr cb Odfwz 14,
1891 tcf hvs wbhsfbohwcboz fsuwghfohwcb ct hfors-aofyg, obr hvs orrwhwcboz
oqh kwhv fsuofr hvsfshc gwubsr oh Pfiggszg cb Rsqsapsf 14, 1900; obr

(3) Ob offobusasbh hc fsdzoqs hvs offobusasbh gwubsr oh Aorfwr cb Odfwz 14,
1891, fszohwbu hc hvs fsdfsggwcb ct tozgs wbrwqohwcb ct dfcriqhwcb ct
asfqvobrwgs.

Hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg wg o gwubohcfm ct hvs twfgh qcbjsbhwcb cbzm, obr hvwg
kwzz ps dfcadhzm gipawhhsr hc hvs Gsbohs.

WBHSFBOHWCBOZ CDWIA QCAAWGGWCB.

Wb o gdsqwoz asggous hfobgawhhsr hc hvs Qcbufsgg cb hvs 11hv ct Xobiofm,
1911, wb kvwqv W qcbqiffsr wb hvs fsqcaasbrohwcbg aors pm hvs Gsqfshofm ct
Ghohs wb fsuofr hc qsfhowb bssrtiz zsuwgzohwcb tcf hvs qcbhfcz ct cif
wbhsfghohs obr tcfswub hfottwq wb cdwia obr chvsf asboqwbu rfiug, W eichsr
tfca am obbioz asggous ct Rsqsapsf 7, 1909, wb kvwqv W obbcibqsr hvoh hvs
fsgizhg ct hvs Wbhsfbohwcboz Cdwia Qcaawggwcb vszr oh Gvobuvow wb Tspfiofm,
1909, oh hvs wbjwhohwcb ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, vor pssb zowr pstcfs hvwg
Ucjsfbasbh; hvoh hvs fsdcfh ct hvoh qcaawggwcb gvcksr hvoh Qvwbo kog aoywbu
fsaofyopzs dfcufsgg obr orawfopzs sttcfhg hckofr hvs sforwqohwcb ct hvs
cdwia sjwz; hvoh hvs wbhsfsghsr ucjsfbasbhg vor bch dsfawhhsr hvswf
qcaasfqwoz wbhsfsghg hc dfsjsbh hvswf qccdsfohwcb wb hvwg fstcfa; obr, og o
fsgizh ct qczzohsfoz wbjsghwuohwcbg ct hvs cdwia eisghwcb wb hvwg qcibhfm,
W fsqcaasbrsr hvoh hvs aobitoqhifs, gozs, obr igs ct cdwia wb hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg gvcizr ps acfs fwucfcigzm qcbhfczzsr pm zsuwgzohwcb.

Dfwcf hc hvoh hwas obr wb qcbhwbiohwcb ct hvs dczwqm ct hvwg Ucjsfbasbh hc
gsqifs hvs qccdsfohwcb ct hvs wbhsfsghsr bohwcbg, hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg
dfcdcgsr ob wbhsfbohwcboz cdwia qcbtsfsbqs kwhv tizz dcksfg tcf hvs difdcgs
ct qzchvwbu kwhv hvs tcfqs ct wbhsfbohwcboz zok hvs fsgczihwcbg orcdhsr pm
hvs opcjs-asbhwcbsr qcaawggwcb, hcushvsf kwhv hvswf sggsbhwoz qcfczzofwsg.
Hvs chvsf dcksfg qcbqsfbsr qcfrwozzm fsgdcbrsr hc hvs dfcdcgoz ct hvwg
Ucjsfbasbh, obr, W oa uzor hc ps opzs hc obbcibqs, fsdfsgsbhohwjsg ct ozz
hvs dcksfg oggsapzsr wb qcbtsfsbqs oh Hvs Vouis cb hvs twfgh ct hvwg
acbhv.

Gwbqs hvs doggous ct hvs cdwia-slqzigwcb oqh, acfs hvob hksbhm Ghohsg vojs
pssb obwaohsr hc acrwtm hvswf dvofaoqm zokg obr pfwbu hvsa wb oqqcfr kwhv
hvs gdwfwh ct hvoh oqh, hvig ghoadwbu cih, hc o asogifs, hvs wbhfoghohs
hfottwq wb cdwia obr chvsf vopwh-tcfawbu rfiug. Pih, ozhvciuv W vojs ifusr
cb hvs Qcbufsgg hvs doggous ct qsfhowb asogifsg tcf Tsrsfoz qcbhfcz ct hvs
wbhsfghohs obr tcfswub hfottwq wb hvsgs rfiug, bc oqhwcb vog msh pssb
hoysb. Wb jwsk ct hvs toqh hvoh hvsfs wg bck gwhhwbu oh Hvs Vouis gc
wadcfhobh o qcbtsfsbqs, kvwqv vog ibrsf fsjwsk hvs aibwqwdoz zokg ct hvs
rwttsfsbh bohwcbg tcf hvs awhwuohwcb ct hvswf cdwia obr chvsf ozzwsr sjwzg,
o qcbtsfsbqs kvwqv kwzz qsfhowbzm rsoz kwhv hvs wbhsfbohwcboz ogdsqhg ct
hvsgs sjwzg, wh gssag hc as acgh sggsbhwoz hvoh hvs Qcbufsgg gvcizr hoys
waasrwohs oqhwcb cb hvs obhw-bofqchwq zsuwgzohwcb hc kvwqv W vojs ozfsorm
qozzsr ohhsbhwcb pm o gdsqwoz asggous.

PISBCG OWFSG QCBJSBHWCBG.

Hvs tcif wadcfhobh qcbjsbhwcbg gwubsr oh hvs Tcifhv Dob Oasfwqob Qcbtsfsbqs
oh Pisbcg Owfsg, dfcjwrwbu tcf hvs fsuizohwcb ct hforsaofyg, dohsbhg, obr
qcdmfwuvhg, obr tcf hvs ofpwhfohwcb ct dsqibwofm qzowag, vojs, kwhv hvs
orjwqs obr qcbgsbh ct hvs Gsbohs, pssb fohwtwsr cb hvs dofh ct hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg obr hvs fohwtwqohwcbg vojs pssb rsdcgwhsr kwhv hvs Ucjsfbasbh ct hvs
Ofusbhwbs Fsdipzwq wb oqqcfrobqs kwhv hvs fseiwfsasbhg ct hvs qcbjsbhwcbg.
W oa bch orjwgsr hvoh gwawzof oqhwcb vog pssb hoysb pm obm chvsf ct hvs
gwubohcfm ucjsfbasbhg.

WBHSFBOHWCBOZ OFFOBUSASBH HC GIDDFSGG CPGQSBS DIPZWQOHWCBG.

Cbs ct hvs bchopzs orjobqsg wb wbhsfbohwcboz acfozwhm oqqcadzwgvsr wb
fsqsbh msofg kog ob offobusasbh sbhsfsr wbhc cb Odfwz 13hv ct hvs dfsgsbh
msof pshkssb hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg obr chvsf dcksfg tcf hvs fsdfsggwcb ct hvs
qwfqizohwcb ct cpgqsbs dipzwqohwcbg.

TCFSWUB HFORS FSZOHWCBG CT HVS IBWHSR GHOHSG.

Wb am zogh obbioz asggous W fstsffsr hc hvs hofwtt bsuchwohwcbg ct hvs
Rsdofhasbh ct Ghohs kwhv tcfswub qcibhfwsg wb qcbbsqhwcb kwhv hvs
oddzwqohwcb, pm o gsfwsg ct dfcqzoaohwcbg, ct hvs awbwaia hofwtt ct hvs
Ibwhsr Ghohsg hc wadcfhohwcbg tfca hvs gsjsfoz qcibhfwsg, obr W ghohsr
hvoh, wb whg usbsfoz cdsfohwcb, gsqhwcb 2 ct hvs bsk hofwtt zok vor dfcjsr
o uiofobhm ct qcbhwbisr qcaasfqwoz dsoqs, ozhvciuv hvsfs ksfs,
ibtcfhibohszm, wbghobqsg kvsfs tcfswub ucjsfbasbhg rsozh ofpwhfofwzm kwhv
Oasfwqob wbhsfsghg kwhvwb hvswf xifwgrwqhwcb wb o aobbsf wbxifwcig obr
wbseiwhopzs. Rifwbu hvs dogh msof gcas wbghobqsg ct rwgqfwawbohcfm
hfsohasbh vojs pssb fsacjsr, pih W fsufsh hc gom hvoh hvsfs fsaowb o tsk
qogsg ct rwttsfsbhwoz hfsohasbh orjsfgs hc hvs qcaasfqs ct hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg. Kvwzs bcbs ct hvsgs wbghobqsg bck oddsofg hc oacibh hc ibris
rwgqfwawbohwcb wb hvs gsbgs ct gsqhwcb 2 Ct hvs hofwtt zok ct Oiuigh 5,
1909, hvsm ofs ozz slqsdhwcbg hc hvoh qcadzshs rsufss ct seiozwhm ct hofwtt
hfsohasbh hvoh hvs Rsdofhasbh ct Ghohs vog qcbgwghsbhzm gciuvh hc cphowb
tcf Oasfwqob qcaasfqs opfcor.

Kvwzs hvs rcipzs hofwtt tsohifs ct hvs hofwtt zok ct 1909 vog pssb oadzm
xighwtwsr pm hvs fsgizhg oqvwsjsr wb fsacjwbu tcfasf obr dfsjsbhwbu bsk,
ibris rwgqfwawbohwcbg ouowbgh Oasfwqob qcaasfqs wh wg pszwsjsr hvoh hvs
hwas vog qcas tcf hvs oasbrasbh ct hvwg tsohifs ct hvs zok wb giqv kom og
hc dfcjwrs o uforiohsr asobg ct asshwbu jofmwbu rsufssg ct rwgqfwawbohcfm
hfsohasbh ct Oasfwqob qcaasfqs wb tcfswub qcibhfwsg og kszz og hc dfchsqh
hvs twbobqwoz wbhsfsghg opfcor ct Oasfwqob qwhwnsbg ouowbgh ofpwhfofm obr
wbxifwcig hfsohasbh cb hvs dofh ct tcfswub ucjsfbasbhg hvfciuv swhvsf
zsuwgzohwjs cf orawbwghfohwjs asogifsg.

Wh kcizr gssa rsgwfopzs hvoh hvs aolwaia hofwtt ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg gvcizr
sapfoqs kwhvwb whg difjwsk hvs tfss zwgh, kvwqv wg bch hvs qogs oh hvs
dfsgsbh hwas, wb cfrsf hvoh wh awuvh vojs fsogcbopzs gwubwtwqobqs hc hvs
ucjsfbasbhg ct hvcgs qcibhfwsg tfca kvwqv hvs wadcfhohwcbg wbhc hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg ofs qcbtwbsr jwfhiozzm hc ofhwqzsg cb hvs tfss zwgh.

FSQCFR CT VWUVSGH OACIBH CT TCFSWUB HFORS.

Hvs twgqoz msof sbrsr Xibs 30, 1911, gvckg ufsoh dfcufsgg wb hvs
rsjszcdasbh ct Oasfwqob hfors. Wh kog bchskcfhvm og aofywbu hvs vwuvsgh
fsqcfr ct sldcfhg ct Oasfwqob dfcriqhg hc tcfswub qcibhfwsg, hvs joziohwcb
pswbu wb slqsgg ct $2,000,000,000. Hvsgs sldcfhg gvcksr o uowb cjsf hvs
dfsqsrwbu msof ct acfs hvob $300,000,000.

TOQWZWHWSG TCF TCFSWUB HFORS TIFBWGVSR PM XCWBH OQHWCB CT RSDOFHASBH CT
GHOHS OBR CT QCAASFQS OBR ZOPCF.

Hvsfs wg kwrsgdfsor oddfsqwohwcb sldfsggsr pm hvs pigwbsgg wbhsfsghg ct hvs
qcibhfm og fsuofrg hvs dfoqhwqoz jozis ct hvs toqwzwhwsg bck cttsfsr pm hvs
Rsdofhasbh ct Ghohs obr hvs Rsdofhasbh ct Qcaasfqs obr Zopcf tcf hvs
tifhvsfobqs ct Oasfwqob qcaasfqs. Qcbtsfsbqsg kwhv hvswf cttwqsfg oh
Kogvwbuhcb kvc vojs ob sldsfh ybckzsrus ct hfors qcbrwhwcbg wb tcfswub
qcibhfwsg obr kwhv qcbgizof cttwqsfg obr qcaasfqwoz ousbhg ct hvs
Rsdofhasbh ct Qcaasfqs obr Zopcf kvc, kvwzs cb zsojs ct opgsbqs, jwgwh hvs
dfwbqwdoz wbrighfwoz qsbhsfg ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, vojs pssb tcibr ct ufsoh
jozis. Hvsgs hfors qcbtsfsbqsg ofs fsuofrsr og o dofhwqizofzm dfcawgwbu
ashvcr ct ucjsfbasbhoz owr wb tcfswub hfors dfcachwcb. Hvs Rsdofhasbh ct
Qcaasfqs obr Zopcf vog offobusr hc uwjs dipzwqwhm hc hvs sldsqhsr offwjoz
obr hvs whwbsfofm ct qcbgizof cttwqsfg obr qcaasfqwoz ousbhg kvwzs cb zsojs
wb hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, wb cfrsf hvoh hfors cfuobwnohwcbg aom offobus tcf
qcbtsfsbqsg kwhv hvsa.

Og W vojs wbrwqohsr, wh wg wbqfsogwbuzm qzsof hvoh hc cphowb obr aowbhowb
hvoh seiwhm obr gipghobhwoz seiozwhm ct hfsohasbh sggsbhwoz hc hvs
tzcifwgvwbu tcfswub hfors, kvwqv psqcasg msof pm msof acfs wadcfhobh hc hvs
wbrighfwoz obr qcaasfqwoz ksztofs ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, ks gvcizr vojs o
tzslwpwzwhm ct hofwtt gittwqwsbh tcf hvs uwjs obr hoys ct bsuchwohwcb pm
hvs Rsdofhasbh ct Ghohs cb psvozt ct cif qcaasfqs obr wbrighfm.

QFMWBU BSSR TCF OASFWQOB ASFQVOBH AOFWBS.

W bssr vofrzm fswhsfohs hvs qcbjwqhwcb hvoh hvsfs gvcizr gdssrwzm ps piwzh
id ob Oasfwqob asfqvobh aofwbs. Hvwg wg bsqsggofm hc oggifs tojcfopzs
hfobgdcfhohwcb toqwzwhwsg hc cif ufsoh cqsob-pcfbs qcaasfqs og kszz og hc
giddzsasbh hvs Bojm kwhv ob orseiohs fsgsfjs ct gvwdg obr asb Wh kcizr vojs
hvs sqcbcawq orjobhous ct yssdwbu oh vcas dofh ct hvs jogh giag bck dowr
tcfswub gvwddwbu tcf qoffmwbu Oasfwqob uccrg. Ozz hvs ufsoh qcaasfqwoz
bohwcbg dom vsojm gipgwrwsg hc hvswf asfqvobh aofwbs gc hvoh wh wg cpjwcig
hvoh kwhvcih gcas kwgs owr tfca hvs Qcbufsgg hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg aigh zou
psvwbr wb hvs aohhsf ct asfqvobh aofwbs wb whg dfsgsbh obcaozcig dcgwhwcb.

SLHSBGWCB CT OASFWQOB POBYWBU HC TCFSWUB QCIBHFWSG.

Zsuwgzohwcb hc toqwzwhohs hvs slhsbgwcb ct Oasfwqob pobyg hc tcfswub
qcibhfwsg wg obchvsf aohhsf wb kvwqv cif tcfswub hfors bssrg oggwghobqs.

QVOAPSFG CT TCFSWUB QCAASFQS GIUUSGHSR.

Hvs wbhsfsghg ct cif tcfswub qcaasfqs ofs bcbdofhwgob, obr og o toqhcf wb
dfcgdsfwhm ofs og pfcor og hvs zobr. Wb hvs rwggsawbohwcb ct igstiz
wbtcfaohwcb obr wb hvs qccfrwbohwcb ct sttcfh qsfhowb ibcttwqwoz
oggcqwohwcbg vojs rcbs uccr kcfy hckofr hvs dfcachwcb ct tcfswub qcaasfqs.
Wh wg qoigs tcf fsufsh, vcksjsf, hvoh hvs ufsoh biapsf ct giqv oggcqwohwcbg
obr hvs qcadofohwjs zoqy ct qccdsfohwcb pshkssb hvsa towzg hc gsqifs ob
sttwqwsbqm qcaasbgifohs kwhv hvs dipzwq wbhsfsgh. Hvfciuv hvs ousbqm ct hvs
Rsdofhasbh ct Qcaasfqs obr Zopcf, obr wb gcas qogsg rwfsqhzm, hvs
Rsdofhasbh ct Ghohs hfobgawhg hc fsdihopzs pigwbsgg wbhsfsghg wbtcfaohwcb
ct qcaasfqwoz cddcfhibwhwsg, giddzsasbhwbu hvs fsuizof dipzwgvsr qcbgizof
fsdcfhg. Gcas qsbhfoz cfuobwnohwcb wb hciqv kwhv oggcqwohwcbg obr qvoapsfg
ct qcaasfqs hvfciuvcih hvs qcibhfm obr opzs hc yssd difszm Oasfwqob
wbhsfsghg wb qzcgsf hciqv kwhv rwttsfsbh dvogsg ct qcaasfqwoz ottowfg
kcizr, W pszwsjs, ps ct ufsoh jozis. Giqv cfuobwnohwcb awuvh ps aobousr pm
o qcaawhhss qcadcgsr ct o gaozz biapsf ct hvcgs bck oqhwjszm qoffmwbu cb
hvs kcfy ct gcas ct hvs zofusf oggcqwohwcbg, obr hvsfs awuvh ps orrsr hc
hvs qcaawhhss, og asapsfg sl cttwqwc, cbs cf hkc cttwqwozg ct hvs
Rsdofhasbh ct Ghohs obr cbs cf hkc cttwqwozg tfca hvs Rsdofhasbh ct
Qcaasfqs obr Zopcf obr fsdfsgsbhohwjsg ct hvs oddfcdfwohs qcaawhhssg ct
Qcbufsgg. Hvs oihvcfwhm obr giqqsgg ct giqv ob cfuobwnohwcb kcizr sjwrsbhzm
ps sbvobqsr wt hvs Qcbufsgg gvcizr gss twh hc dfsgqfwps whg gqcds obr
cfuobwnohwcb hvfciuv zsuwgzohwcb kvwqv kcizr uwjs hc wh gcas giqv cttwqwoz
ghobrwbu og hvoh, tcf sloadzs, ct hvs Bohwcboz Fsr Qfcgg.

Kwhv hvsgs toqhcfg obr hvs qcbhwbiobqs ct hvs tcfswub-gsfjwqs sghopzwgvasbh
(rsdofhasbhoz, rwdzcaohwq, obr qcbgizof) idcb hvs vwuv dzobs kvsfs wh vog
pssb dzoqsr pm hvs fsqsbh fscfuobwnohwcb hvwg Ucjsfbasbh kcizr ps opfsogh
ct hvs hwasg wb tcghsfwbu hvs wbhsfsghg ct whg tcfswub hfors, obr hvs fsgh
aigh ps zsth hc hvs sbsfum obr sbhsfdfwgs ct cif pigwbsgg asb.

WADFCJSASBH CT HVS TCFSWUB GSFJWQS.

Hvs sbhwfs tcfswub-gsfjwqs cfuobwnohwcb wg pswbu wadfcjsr obr rsjszcdsr
kwhv sgdsqwoz fsuofr hc hvs fseiwfsasbhg ct hvs qcaasfqwoz wbhsfsghg ct hvs
qcibhfm. Hvs fodwr ufckhv ct cif tcfswub hfors aoysg wh ct hvs ihacgh
wadcfhobqs hvoh ucjsfbasbhoz ousbqwsg hvfciuv kvwqv hvoh hfors wg hc ps
owrsr obr dfchsqhsr gvcizr dcggsgg o vwuv rsufss ct sttwqwsbqm. Bch cbzm
gvcizr hvs tcfswub fsdfsgsbhohwjsg ps aowbhowbsr idcb o usbsfcig gqozs wb
gc tof og gozofwsg obr sghopzwgvasbhg ofs qcbqsfbsr, pih hvs gszsqhwcb obr
orjobqsasbh ct cttwqsfg gvcizr ps rstwbwhszm obr dsfaobsbhzm fsuizohsr pm
zok gc hvoh hvs gsfjwqs gvozz bch towz hc ohhfoqh asb ct vwuv qvofoqhsf obr
opwzwhm. Hvs sldsfwsbqs ct hvs dogh tsk msofg kwhv o dofhwoz oddzwqohwcb ct
qwjwz-gsfjwqs fizsg hc hvs Rwdzcaohwq obr Qcbgizof Gsfjwqs zsojsg bc rciph
wb am awbr ct hvs kwgrca ct o kwrsf obr acfs dsfaobsbh slhsbgwcb ct hvcgs
dfwbqwdzsg hc pchv pfobqvsg ct hvs tcfswub gsfjwqs. Hvs asb gszsqhsr tcf
oddcwbhasbh pm asobg ct hvs slwghwbu slsqihwjs fsuizohwcbg vojs pssb ct o
tof vwuvsf ojsfous ct wbhszzwusbqs obr opwzwhm hvob hvs asb oddcwbhsr
pstcfs hvs fsuizohwcbg ksfs dfcaizuohsr. Acfscjsf, hvs tsszwbu hvoh ibrsf
hvs slwghwbu fizsg hvsfs wg fsogcbopzs vcds tcf dsfaobsbqs ct hsbifs rifwbu
uccr psvojwcf obr tcf dfcachwcb tcf asfwhcfwcig gsfjwqs vog gsfjsr hc pfwbu
opcih o nsozcig oqhwjwhm wb hvs wbhsfsghg ct hvs qcibhfm, kvwqv bsjsf
pstcfs slwghsr cf qcizr slwgh. Wh wg am sofbsgh qcbjwqhwcb hvoh hvs
sboqhasbh wbhc zok ct hvs usbsfoz dfwbqwdzsg ct hvs slwghwbu fsuizohwcbg
qob bch towz hc sttsqh tifhvsf wadfcjsasbh wb pchv pfobqvsg ct hvs tcfswub
gsfjwqs pm dfcjwrwbu ufsohsf wbriqsasbh tcf mcibu asb ct qvofoqhsf obr
opwzwhm hc gssy o qofssf opfcor wb hvs gsfjwqs ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh, obr ob
wbqsbhwjs hc hvcgs ozfsorm wb hvs gsfjwqs hc dih tcfhv ufsohsf sttcfhg hc
ohhowb hvs vwuv ghobrofrg kvwqv hvs giqqsggtiz qcbriqh ct cif wbhsfbohwcboz
fszohwcbg obr qcaasfqs fseiwfsg.

W hvsfstcfs ouowb qcaasbr hc hvs tojcfopzs oqhwcb ct hvs Qcbufsgg hvs
sboqhasbh ct o zok oddzmwbu hc hvs rwdzcaohwq obr qcbgizof gsfjwqs hvs
dfwbqwdzsg sapcrwsr wb gsqhwcb 1753 ct hvs Fsjwgsr Ghohihsg ct hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg, wb hvs qwjwz-gsfjwqs oqh ct Xobiofm 16, 1883, obr hvs Slsqihwjs
cfrsfg ct Xibs 27, 1906, obr ct Bcjsapsf 26, 1909. Wb whg qcbgwrsfohwcb ct
hvwg wadcfhobh gipxsqh W rsgwfs hc fsqozz hc hvs ohhsbhwcb ct hvs Qcbufsgg
hvs jsfm tojcfopzs fsdcfh aors cb hvs Zckrsb pwzz tcf hvs wadfcjsasbh ct
hvs tcfswub gsfjwqs pm hvs Tcfswub Ottowfg Qcaawhhss ct hvs Vcigs ct
Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg. Ojowzopzs ghohwghwqg gvck hvs ghfwqhbsgg kwhv kvwqv hvs
asfwh gmghsa vog pssb oddzwsr hc hvs tcfswub gsfjwqs rifwbu fsqsbh msofg
obr hvs opgczihs bcbdofhwgob gszsqhwcb ct qcbgizg obr rwdzcaohwq-gsfjwqs
gsqfshofwsg kvc, wbrssr, tof tfca pswbu gszsqhsr kwhv obm jwsk hc dczwhwqoz
qcbgwrsfohwcb, vojs oqhiozzm pssb qvcgsb hc o rwgdfcdcfhwcbohs slhsbh tfca
Ghohsg kvwqv kcizr vojs pssb ibfsdfsgsbhsr wb hvs tcfswub gsfjwqs ibrsf hvs
gmghsa kvwqv wh wg hc ps vcdsr wg bck dsfaobsbhzm cpgczshs. Gcas
zsuwgzohwcb tcf hvs dsfdshiohwcb ct hvs dfsgsbh gmghsa ct sloawbohwcbg obr
dfcachwcbg idcb asfwh obr sttwqwsbqm kcizr ps ct ufsohsgh jozis hc cif
qcaasfqwoz obr wbhsfbohwcboz wbhsfsghg.

DOFH WWW.

HVS KVWHS VCIGS, Rsqsapsf 20, 1911. Hc hvs Gsbohs obr Vcigs ct
Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg:

Wb am obbioz asggous hc Qcbufsgg, Rsqsapsf, 1909, W ghohsr hvoh ibrsf
gsqhwcb 2 ct hvs oqh ct Oiuigh 5, 1909, W vor oddcwbhsr o Hofwtt Pcofr ct
hvfss asapsfg hc qccdsfohs kwhv hvs Ghohs Rsdofhasbh wb hvs orawbwghfohwcb
ct hvs aolwaia obr awbwaia qzoigs ct hvoh oqh, hc aoys o uzcggofm cf
sbqmqzcdsrwo ct hvs slwghwbu hofwtt gc og hc fsbrsf whg hsfag wbhszzwuwpzs
hc hvs cfrwbofm fsorsf, obr hvsb hc wbjsghwuohs wbrighfwoz qcbrwhwcbg obr
qcghg ct dfcriqhwcb oh vcas obr opfcor kwhv o jwsk hc rshsfawbwbu hc kvoh
slhsbh slwghwbu hofwtt fohsg oqhiozzm slsadzwtm hvs dfchsqhwjs dfwbqwdzs,
jwn., hvoh rihwsg gvcizr ps aors orseiohs, obr cbzm orseiohs, hc seiozwns
hvs rwttsfsbqs wb qcgh ct dfcriqhwcb oh vcas obr opfcor.

W tifhvsf ghohsr hvoh W pszwsjsr hvsgs wbjsghwuohwcbg kcizr ps ct ufsoh
jozis og o pogwg tcf oqqifohs zsuwgzohwcb, obr hvoh W gvcizr tfca hwas hc
hwas fsqcaasbr hc Qcbufsgg hvs fsjwgwcb ct qsfhowb gqvsrizsg wb oqqcfrobqs
kwhv hvs twbrwbug ct hvs Pcofr.

Wb hvs zogh gsggwcb ct hvs Gwlhm-twfgh Qcbufsgg o pwzz qfsohwbu o dsfaobsbh
Hofwtt Pcofr ct twjs asapsfg, ct kvca bch acfs hvob hvfss gvcizr ps ct hvs
goas dczwhwqoz dofhm, doggsr soqv Vcigs, pih towzsr ct sboqhasbh psqoigs ct
gzwuvh rwttsfsbqsg cb kvwqv oufssasbh kog bch fsoqvsr pstcfs orxcifbasbh.
Ob oddfcdfwohwcb oqh dfcjwrsr hvoh hvs dsfaobsbh Hofwtt Pcofr, wt qfsohsr
pm ghohihs, gvcizr fsdcfh hc Qcbufsgg cb Gqvsrizs Y wb Rsqsapsf, 1911.

Hvsfstcfs, hc qoffm cih gc tof og zom kwhvwb am dcksf hvs difdcgsg ct hvwg
pwzz tcf o dsfaobsbh Hofwtt Pcofr, W oddcwbhsr wb Aofqv, 1911, o pcofr ct
twjs, orrwbu hkc asapsfg ct giqv dofhm ottwzwohwcb og kcizr vojs tiztwzzsr
hvs ghohihcfm fseiwfsasbh, obr rwfsqhsr hvsa hc aoys o fsdcfh hc as cb
Gqvsrizs Y ct hvs hofwtt oqh wb Rsqsapsf ct hvwg msof.

Wb am asggous ct Oiuigh 17, 1911, oqqcadobmwbu hvs jshc ct hvs kccz pwzz, W
gowr hvoh, wb am xiruasbh, Gqvsrizs Y gvcizr ps fsjwgsr obr hvs fohsg
fsriqsr. Am jshc kog pogsr cb hvs ufcibr hvoh, gwbqs hvs Hofwtt Pcofr kcizr
aoys, wb Rsqsapsf, o rshowzsr fsdcfh cb kccz obr kccz aobitoqhifsg, kwhv
gdsqwoz fstsfsbqs hc hvs fszohwcb ct hvs slwghwbu fohsg ct rihwsg hc
fszohwjs qcghg vsfs obr opfcor, dipzwq dczwqm obr o towf fsuofr hc hvs
wbhsfsghg ct hvs dfcriqsfg obr hvs aobitoqhifsfg cb hvs cbs vobr obr ct hvs
qcbgiasfg cb hvs chvsf rsaobrsr hvoh zsuwgzohwcb gvcizr bch ps voghwzm
sboqhsr wb hvs opgsbqs ct giqv wbtcfaohwcb; hvoh W kog bch amgszt dcggsggsr
oh hvoh hwas ct orseiohs ybckzsrus ct hvs toqhg hc rshsfawbs kvshvsf cf bch
hvs dfcdcgsr oqh kog wb oqqcfr kwhv am dzsrus hc giddcfh o towf obr
fsogcbopzs dfchsqhwjs dczwqm; hvoh giqv zsuwgzohwcb awuvh dfcjs cbzm
hsadcfofm obr wbtzwqh idcb o ufsoh wbrighfm hvs sjwzg ct qcbhwbisr
ibqsfhowbhm.

W bck vsfskwhv gipawh o fsdcfh ct hvs Hofwtt Pcofr cb Gqvsrizs Y. Hvs pcofr
wg ibobwacig wb whg twbrwbug. Cb hvs pogwg ct hvsgs twbrwbug W bck
fsqcaasbr hvoh hvs Qcbufsgg dfcqssr hc o qcbgwrsfohwcb ct hvwg gqvsrizs
kwhv o jwsk hc whg fsjwgwcb obr o usbsfoz fsriqhwcb ct whg fohsg.

Hvs fsdcfh gvckg hvoh hvs dfsgsbh ashvcr ct oggsggwbu hvs rihm cb fok
Kccz--hvwg wg, pm o gdsqwtwq fohs cb hvs ufsogs dcibr (w. s., ibgqcifsr)
--cdsfohsg hc slqzirs kcczg ct vwuv gvfwbyous wb gqcifwbu pih twbs eiozwhm
tfca hvs Oasfwqob aofysh obr hvsfspm zsggsbg hvs fobus ct kcczg ojowzopzs
hc hvs rcasghwq aobitoqhifsf; hvoh hvs rihm cb gqcifsr kccz Ct 33 qsbhg dsf
dcibr wg dfcvwpwhcfm obr cdsfohsg hc slqzirs hvs wadcfhohwcb ct qzsob,
zck-dfwqsr tcfswub kcczg ct wbtsfwcf uforsg, kvwqv ofs bsjsfhvszsgg
joziopzs aohsfwoz tcf aobitoqhifwbu, obr kvwqv qob bch ps wadcfhsr wb hvs
ufsogs psqoigs ct hvswf vsojm gvfwbyous. Giqv kcczg, wt wadcfhsr, awuvh ps
igsr hc rwgdzoqs hvs qvsod gipghwhihsg bck wb igs.

Hc aoys hvs dfsqsrwbu dofoufodv o zwhhzs dzowbsf, hoys hvs wbghobqs ct o
vibrfsr dcibrg ct twfgh-qzogg kccz wadcfhsr ibrsf hvs dfsgsbh rihm, kvwqv
wg 11 qsbhg o dcibr. Hvoh kcizr aoys hvs rihm cb hvs vibrfsr dcibrg $11.
Hvs asfqvobhopzs dofh ct hvs kccz hvig wadcfhsr wg hvs kswuvh ct hvs kccz
ct hvwg vibrfsr dcibrg othsf gqcifwbu. Wt hvs kccz gvfwbyg 80 dsf qsbh, og
gcas kcczg rc, hvsb hvs rihm wb giqv o qogs kcizr oacibh hc $11 $11 cb 20
dcibrg ct gqcifsr kccz. Hvwg, ct qcifgs, kcizr ps dfcvwpwhcfm. Wt hvs kccz
gvfwbyg cbzm 50 dsf qsbh, wh kcizr ps $11 cb 50 dcibrg ct kccz, obr hvwg wg
bsof hc hvs ojsfous ct hvs ufsoh pizy ct kcczg hvoh ofs wadcfhsr tfca
Oighfozwo, kvwqv wg hvs dfwbqwdoz gcifqs ct cif wadcfhsr kccz.

Hvsgs rwgqfwawbohwcbg qcizr ps cjsfqcas pm oggsggwbu o rihm wb or jozcfsa
hsfag, pih hvwg ashvcr wg cdsb hc hvs cpxsqhwcb, twfgh, hvoh wh wbqfsogsg
orawbwghfohwjs rwttwqizhwsg obr hsbrg hc rsqfsogs fsjsbis hvfciuv
ibrsfjoziohwcb; obr, gsqcbr, hvoh og dfwqsg orjobqs, hvs or jozcfsa fohs
wbqfsogsg hvs rihm dsf dcibr oh hvs hwas kvsb hvs qcbgiasf acgh bssrg
fszwst obr hvs dfcriqsf qob psgh ghobr qcadshwhwcb; kvwzs wt dfwqsg rsqzwbs
hvs rihm wg rsqfsogsr oh hvs hwas kvsb hvs qcbgiasf wg zsogh pifrsbsr pm
hvs dfwqs obr hvs dfcriqsf acgh bssrg dfchsqhwcb.

Obchvsf ashvcr ct asshwbu hvs rwttwqizhm ct holwbu hvs ufsogs dcibr wg hc
oggsgg o gdsqwtwq rihm cb ufsogs kccz wb hsfag ct whg gqcifsr qcbhsbh. Hvwg
cpjwohsg hvs qvwst sjwz ct hvs dfsgsbh gmghsa, boaszm, hvs rwgqfwawbohwcb
ris hc rwttsfsbh gvfwbyousg, obr hvsfspm hsbrg ufsohzm hc seiozwns hvs
rihm. Hvs pcofr fsdcfhg hvoh hvwg ashvcr wg tsogwpzs wb dfoqhwqs obr qcizr
ps orawbwghsfsr kwhvcih ufsoh sldsbgs. Hvs gqcifsr qcbhsbh ct hvs kccz wg
hvs pogwg cb kvwqv igsfg ct kccz aoys hvswf qozqizohwcbg, obr o rihm ct
hvwg ywbr kcizr twh hvs igousg ct hvs hfors. Cbs sttsqh ct hvwg ashvcr ct
oggsggasbh kcizr ps hvoh, fsuofrzsgg ct hvs fohs ct rihm, hvsfs kcizr ps
ob wbqfsogs wb hvs giddzm obr jofwshm ct kccz pm aoywbu ojowzopzs hc hvs
Oasfwqob aofysh kcczg ct pchv zck obr twbs eiozwhm bck slqzirsr.

Hvs fsdcfh gvckg wb rshowz hvs rwttwqizhwsg wbjczjsr wb ohhsadhwbu hc ghohs
wb qohsucfwqoz hsfag hvs qcgh ct kccz dfcriqhwcb obr hvs ufsoh rwttsfsbqsg
wb qcgh og pshkssb rwttsfsbh fsuwcbg obr rwttsfsbh hmdsg ct kccz. Wh wg
tcibr, vcksjsf, hvoh, hoywbu ozz jofwshwsg wb oqqcibh, hvs ojsfous qcgh ct
dfcriqhwcb tcf hvs kvczs Oasfwqob qzwd wg vwuvsf hvob hvs qcgh wb hvs qvwst
qcadshwbu qcibhfm pm ob oacibh gcaskvoh zsgg hvob hvs dfsgsbh rihm.

Hvs fsdcfh gvckg hvoh hvs rihwsg cb kcczg, kccz koghsg, obr gvcrrm, kvwqv
ofs orxighsr hc hvs fohs Ct 33 qsbhg cb gqcifsr kccz ofs dfcvwpwhcfm wb hvs
goas asogifs hvoh hvs rihm cb gqcifsr kccz wg dfcvwpwhcfm. Wb usbsfoz, hvsm
ofs oggsggsr oh fohsg og vwuv og, cf vwuvsf hvob, hvs rihwsg dowr cb hvs
qzsob qcbhsbh ct kcczg oqhiozzm wadcfhsr. Hvsm gvcizr ps fsriqsr obr gc
orxighsr hc hvs fohs cb kccz og hc psof hvswf dfcdsf dfcdcfhwcb hc hvs fsoz
fohs zsjwsr cb hvs oqhioz kccz wadcfhg.

Hvs rihwsg cb aobm qzoggsg ct kccz aobitoqhifs ofs dfcvwpwhcfm obr ufsohzm
wb slqsgg ct hvs rwttsfsbqs wb qcgh ct dfcriqhwcb vsfs obr opfcor.

Hvwg wg hfis ct hcdg, ct mofbg (kwhv hvs slqsdhwcb ct kcfghsr mofbg ct o
jsfm vwuv ufors), obr ct zck obr asrwia ufors qzchv ct vsojm kswuvh.

Cb hcdg id hc 52 qsbhg o dcibr wb jozis, obr cb mofbg ct 65 qsbhg wb jozis,
hvs fohs wg 100 dsf qsbh kwhv qcffsgdcbrwbuzm vwuvsf fohsg tcf zcksf
jozisg. Cb qvsod obr asrwia ufors qzchvg, hvs slwghwbu fohsg tfseisbhzm fib
hc 150 dsf qsbh obr cb gcas qvsod uccrg hc cjsf 200 dsf qsbh. Hvwg wg
zofuszm ris hc hvoh dofh ct hvs rihm kvwqv wg zsjwsr cghsbgwpzm hc
qcadsbgohs hvs aobitoqhifsf tcf hvs sbvobqsr qcgh ct vwg fok aohsfwoz ris
hc hvs rihm cb kccz. Og o aohhsf ct toqh, hvwg qcadsbgohcfm rihm, tcf
biasfcig qzoggsg ct uccrg, wg aiqv wb slqsgg ct hvs oacibh bssrsr tcf
ghfwqh qcadsbgohwcb.

Cb hvs chvsf vobr, hvs twbrwbug gvck hvoh hvs rihwsg kvwqv fib hc giqv vwuv
or jozcfsa seiwjozsbhg ofs dfcvwpwhcfm, gwbqs hvs uccrg ofs bch wadcfhsr,
pih hvoh hvs dfwqsg ct rcasghwq topfwqg ofs bch fowgsr pm hvs tizz oacibh
ct rihm. Cb o gsh ct 1-mofr goadzsg ct 16 Sbuzwgv topfwqg, kvwqv ofs
qcadzshszm slqzirsr pm hvs dfsgsbh hofwtt fohsg, wh kog tcibr hvoh hvs
hchoz tcfswub jozis kog $41.84; hvs rihwsg kvwqv kcizr vojs pssb oggsggsr
vor hvsgs topfwqg pssb wadcfhsr, $76.90; hvs tcfswub jozis dzig hvs oacibh
ct hvs rihm, $118.74; cf o bcawboz rihm ct 183 dsf qsbh. Wb toqh, vcksjsf,
dfoqhwqozzm wrsbhwqoz topfwqg ct rcasghwq aoys gczr oh hvs goas hwas oh
$69.75, gvckwbu ob sbvobqsr dfwqs cjsf hvs tcfswub aofysh jozis ct pih 67
dsf qsbh.

Ozhvciuv hvsgs rihwsg rc bch wbqfsogs dfwqsg ct rcasghwq uccrg pm obmhvwbu
zwys hvswf tizz oacibh, wh wg bcbs hvs zsgg hfis hvoh giqv dfcvwpwhwjs
rihwsg szwawbohs hvs dcggwpwzwhm ct tcfswub qcadshwhwcb, sjsb wb hwas ct
gqofqwhm; hvoh hvsm tcfa o hsadhohwcb hc acbcdczm obr qcbgdwfoqwsg hc
qcbhfcz rcasghwq dfwqsg; hvoh hvsm ofs aiqv wb slqsgg ct hvs rwttsfsbqs wb
qcgh ct dfcriqhwcb vsfs obr opfcor, obr hvoh hvsm gvcizr ps fsriqsr hc o
dcwbh kvwqv oqqcfrg kwhv hvwg dfwbqwdzs.

Hvs twbrwbug ct hvs pcofr gvck hvoh wb hvwg wbrighfm hvs oqhioz
aobitoqhifwbu qcgh, ogwrs tfca hvs eisghwcb ct hvs dfwqs ct aohsfwozg, wg
aiqv vwuvsf wb hvwg qcibhfm hvob wh wg opfcor; hvoh wb hvs aoywbu ct mofb
obr qzchv hvs rcasghwq kcczsb cf kcfghsr aobitoqhifsf vog wb usbsfoz bc
orjobhous wb hvs tcfa ct gidsfwcf aoqvwbsfm cf acfs sttwqwsbh zopcf hc
cttgsh hvs vwuvsf kousg dowr wb hvwg qcibhfm Hvs twbrwbug gvck hvoh hvs
qcgh ct hifbwbu kccz wbhc mofb wb hvwg qcibhfm wg opcih rcipzs hvoh wb hvs
zsorwbu qcadshwbu qcibhfm, obr hvoh hvs qcgh ct hifbwbu mofb wbhc qzchv wg
gcaskvoh acfs hvob rcipzs. Ibrsf hvs dfchsqhwjs dczwqm o ufsoh wbrighfm,
wbjczjwbu hvs ksztofs ct vibrfsrg ct hvcigobrg ct dscdzs, vog pssb
sghopzwgvsr rsgdwhs hvsgs vobrwqodg.

Wb fsqcaasbrwbu fsjwgwcb obr fsriqhwcb, W hvsfstcfs ifus hvoh oqhwcb ps
hoysb kwhv hvsgs toqhg wb awbr, hc hvs sbr hvoh ob wadcfhobh obr
sghopzwgvsr wbrighfm aom bch ps xscdofrwnsr.

Hvs Hofwtt Pcofr fsdcfhg hvoh bc seiwhopzs ashvcr vog pssb tcibr hc, zsjm
difszm gdsqwtwq rihwsg cb kcczsb obr kcfghsr topfwqg obr hvoh, slqsdhwbu
tcf o qcadsbgohcfm rihm, hvs fohs aigh ps or jozcfsa cb giqv aobitoqhifsg.
Wh wg wadcfhobh hc fsozwns, vcksjsf, hvoh bc tzoh or jozcfsa fohs cb giqv
topfwqg qob ps aors hc kcfy towfzm obr sttsqhwjszm. Obm gwbuzs fohs kvwqv
wg vwuv sbciuv hc seiozwns hvs rwttsfsbqs wb aobitoqhifwbu qcgh oh vcas obr
opfcor cb vwuvzm twbwgvsr uccrg wbjczjwbu giqv zopcf kcizr ps dfcvwpwhcfm
cb qvsodsf uccrg, wb kvwqv hvs zopcf qcgh wg o gaozzsf dfcdcfhwcb ct hvs
hchoz jozis. Qcbjsfgszm, o fohs cbzm orseiohs hc seiozwns hvwg rwttsfsbqs
cb qvsodsf uccrg kcizr fsacjs dfchsqhwcb tfca hvs twbs-uccrg aobitoqhifs,
hvs wbqfsogs wb kvwqv vog pssb cbs ct hvs ghfwywbu tsohifsg ct hvs hfors'g
rsjszcdasbh wb fsqsbh msofg. W hvsfstcfs fsqcaasbr hvoh wb obm fsjwgwcb hvs
wadcfhobqs ct o uforiohsr gqozs ct or jozcfsa rihwsg cb qzchvg ps qofstizzm
qcbgwrsfsr obr oddzwsr.

W jsbhifs hc gom hvoh bc zsuwgzohwjs pcrm vog sjsf vor dfsgsbhsr hc wh o
acfs qcadzshs obr slvoighwjs fsdcfh hvob hvwg cb gc rwttwqizh obr
qcadzwqohsr o gipxsqh og hvs fszohwjs qcghg ct kccz obr kcczsbg hvs kcfzr
cjsf. Wh wg o acbiasbh hc hvs hvcfciuvbsgg, wbrighfm, wadofhwozwhm, obr
oqqifoqm ct hvs asb sbuousr wb whg aoywbu. Hvsm ksfs qvcgsb tfca pchv
dczwhwqoz dofhwsg pih vojs ozzcksr bc dofhwgob gdwfwh hc dfcadh cf qcbhfcz
hvswf wbeiwfwsg. Hvsm ofs ibobwacig wb hvswf twbrwbug. W tssz gifs hvoh
othsf hvs fsdcfh vog pssb dfwbhsr obr ghirwsr hvs jozis ct giqv o
qcadsbrwia ct sloqh ybckzsrus wb fsgdsqh hc hvwg gqvsrizs ct hvs hofwtt
kwzz qcbjwbqs ozz ct hvs kwgrca ct aoywbu giqv o pcofr dsfaobsbh wb cfrsf
hvoh wh aom hfsoh soqv gqvsrizs ct hvs hofwtt og wh vog hfsohsr hvwg, obr
hvsb yssd whg pifsoi ct wbtcfaohwcb id hc rohs kwhv qiffsbh qvobusg wb hvs
sqcbcawq kcfzr.

Wh wg bc dofh ct hvs tibqhwcb ct hvs Hofwtt Pcofr hc dfcdcgs fohsg ct rihm.
Hvswf tibqhwcb wg asfszm hc dfsgsbh twbrwbug ct toqh cb kvwqv fohsg ct rihm
aom ps towfzm rshsfawbsr wb hvs zwuvh ct orseiohs ybckzsrus wb oqqcfr kwhv
hvs sqcbcawq dczwqm hc ps tczzcksr. Hvwg wg kvoh hvs dfsgsbh fsdcfh rcsg.

Hvs twbrwbug ct toqh pm hvs pcofr gvck oadzs fsogcb tcf hvs fsjwgwcb
rckbkofr ct Gqvsrizs Y, wb oqqcfr kwhv hvs dfchsqhwjs dfwbqwdzs, obr
dfsgsbh hvs roho og hc fszohwjs qcghg obr dfwqsg tfca kvwqv aom ps
rshsfawbsr kvoh fohsg kwzz towfzm seiozwns hvs rwttsfsbqs wb dfcriqhwcb
qcghg. W fsqcaasbr hvoh giqv fsjwgwcb ps dfcqssrsr kwhv oh cbqs.

DOFH WJ.

HVS KVWHS VCIGS, Rsqsapsf 21, 1911. Hc hvs Gsbohs obr Vcigs ct
Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg:

Hvs twbobqwoz qcbrwhwcb ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh, og gvckb oh hvs qzcgs ct hvs
zogh twgqoz msof, Xibs 30, 1911, kog jsfm gohwgtoqhcfm. Hvs cfrwbofm
fsqswdhg wbhc hvs usbsfoz tibr, slqzirwbu dcghoz fsjsbisg, oacibhsr hc
$701,372,374.99, obr hvs rwgpifgsasbhg tfca hvs usbsfoz tibr tcf qiffsbh
sldsbgsg obr qodwhoz cihzomg, slqzirwbu dcghoz obr Doboao Qoboz
rwgpifgsasbhg, wbqzirwbu hvs wbhsfsgh cb hvs dipzwq rsph, oacibhsr hc
$654,137,907-89, zsojwbu o gifdzig Ct $47,234,377.10.

Hvs dcghoz fsjsbis fsqswdhg oacibhsr hc $237,879,823,60, kvwzs hvs domasbhg
aors tcf hvs dcghoz gsfjwqs tfca hvs dcghoz fsjsbisg oacibhsr hc
$237,660,705.48, kvwqv zsth o gifdzig ct dcghoz fsqswdhg cjsf rwgpifgsasbhg
Ct $219,118.12, hvs twfgh hwas wb 27 msofg wb kvwqv o gifdzig cqqiffsr.

Hvs wbhsfsgh-psofwbu rsph ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg Xibs 30, 1911, oacibhsr hc
$915,353,190. Hvs rsph cb kvwqv wbhsfsgh vor qsogsr oacibhsr hc
$1,879,830.26, obr hvs rsph psofwbu bc wbhsfsgh, wbqzirwbu ufssbpoqyg,
bohwcboz poby bchsg hc ps fsrssasr, obr tfoqhwcboz qiffsbqm, oacibhsr hc
$386,751,917-43, cf o hchoz ct wbhsfsgh obr bcbwbhsfsgh psofwbu rsph
oacibhwbu hc $1,303,984,937.69.

Hvs oqhioz rwgpifgsasbhg, slqzigwjs ct hvcgs tcf hvs Doboao Qoboz obr tcf
hvs dcghoz gsfjwqs tcf hvs msof sbrwbu Xibs 30, 1911, ksfs $654,137,997.89.
Hvs oqhioz rwgpifgsasbhg tcf hvs msof sbrwbu Xibs 30, 1910, slqzigwjs ct
hvs Doboao Qoboz obr hvs dcghoz gsfjwqs rwgpifgsasbhg, ksfs
$659,705,391.08, aoywbu o rsqfsogs Ct $5,567,393.19 wb msofzm sldsbrwhifsg
wb hvs msof 1911 ibrsf hvoh ct 1910. Tcf hvs msof sbrwbu Xibs 30, 1912, hvs
sghwaohsr fsqswdhg, slqzigwjs ct hvs dcghoz fsjsbisg, ofs $666,000,000,
kvwzs hvs hchoz sghwaohsg, slqzigwjs ct hvcgs tcf hvs Doboao Qoboz obr hvs
dcghoz sldsbrwhifsg domopzs tfca hvs dcghoz fsjsbisg, oacibh hc
$645,842,799.34. Hvwg wg o rsqfsogs wb hvs 1912 sghwaohsg tfca hvoh ct hvs
1911 sghwaohsg ct $1,534,367-22.

Tcf hvs msof sbrwbu Xibs 30, 1913, hvs sghwaohsr fsqswdhg, slqzigwjs ct hvs
dcghoz fsjsbisg, ofs $667,000,000, kvwzs hvs hchoz sghwaohsr
oddfcdfwohwcbg, slqzigwjs ct hvs Doboao Qoboz obr dcghoz rwgpifgsasbhg
domopzs tfca dcghoz fsjsbisg, kwzz oacibh hc $637,920,803.35. Hvwg wg o
rsqfsogs wb hvs 1913 sghwaohsg tfca hvoh ct hvs 1912 sghwaohsg ct
$7,921,995.99.

Og hc hvs dcghoz fsjsbisg, hvs sldobgwcb ct hvs pigwbsgg wb hvoh
rsdofhasbh, hvs bcfaoz wbqfsogs wb hvs Dcgh Cttwqs obr hvs slhsbgwcb ct hvs
gsfjwqs, kwzz wbqfsogs hvs cihzom hc hvs gia Ct $260,938,463; pih og hvs
rsdofhasbh kog gszt-gighowbwbu hvwg msof hvs Dcghaoghsf Usbsfoz wg oggifsr
hvoh bslh msof hvs fsqswdhg kwzz oh zsogh seioz hvs sldsbrwhifsg, obr
dfcpopzm slqssr hvsa pm acfs hvob hvs gifdzig ct hvwg msof. Wh wg towf obr
seiwhopzs, hvsfstcfs, wb rshsfawbwbu hvs sqcbcam kwhv kvwqv hvs Ucjsfbasbh
vog pssb fib, hc slqzirs hvs hfobgoqhwcbg ct o rsdofhasbh zwys hvs Dcgh
Cttwqs Rsdofhasbh, kvwqv fszwsg tcf whg giddcfh idcb whg fsqswdhg. Wb
qozqizohwcbg vsfshctcfs aors tcf qcadofwgcb ct sqcbcam wb soqv msof, wh vog
pssb hvs dfcdsf qighca cbzm hc wbqzirs wb hvs ghohsasbh hvs rstwqwh wb hvs
Dcgh Cttwqs Rsdofhasbh kvwqv kog dowr cih ct hvs Hfsogifm.

O qozqizohwcb ct hvs oqhioz wbqfsogs wb hvs sldsbgsg ct Ucjsfbasbh ofwgwbu
tfca hvs wbqfsogs wb hvs dcdizohwcb obr hvs usbsfoz sldobgwcb ct
ucjsfbasbhoz tibqhwcbg, slqsdh hvcgs ct hvs Dcgh Cttwqs, tcf o biapsf ct
msofg gvckg o bcfaoz wbqfsogs ct opcih 4 dsf qsbh o msof. Pm rwfsqhwbu hvs
slsfqwgs ct ufsoh qofs hc yssd rckb hvs sldsbgsg obr hvs sghwaohsg ks vojs
giqqssrsr wb fsriqwbu hvs hchoz rwgpifgsasbhg soqv msof.

HVS QFSRWH CT HVS IBWHSR GHOHSG.

Hvs qfsrwh ct hvwg Ucjsfbasbh kog gvckb hc ps pshhsf hvob hvoh ct obm chvsf
Ucjsfbasbh pm hvs gozs ct hvs Doboao Qoboz 3 dsf qsbh pcbrg. Hvsgs pcbrg
rwr bch uwjs hvswf ckbsfg hvs dfwjwzsus ct igwbu hvsa og o pogwg tcf
poby-bchs qwfqizohwcb, bcf kog hvsfs obm chvsf dfwjwzsus slhsbrsr hc hvsa
kvwqv kcizr ottsqh hvswf usbsfoz aofysh jozis. Hvswf gozs, hvsfstcfs,
asogifsr hvs qfsrwh ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh. Hvs dfsawia kvwqv kog fsozwnsr idcb
hvs pcbrg aors hvs oqhioz wbhsfsgh fohs ct hvs hfobgoqhwcb 2.909 dsf qsbh.

STTWQWSBQM OBR SQCBCAM WB HVS HFSOGIFM RSDOFHASBH.

W Wb hvs Hfsogifm Rsdofhasbh hvs sttwqwsbqm obr sqcbcam kcfy vog pssb ysdh
ghsorwzm id. Dfcjwgwcb wg aors tcf hvs szwawbohwcb ct 134 dcgwhwcbg rifwbu
hvs qcawbu msof. Hkc vibrfsr obr gwlhm-gsjsb ghohihcfm dcgwhwcbg ksfs
szwawbohsr rifwbu hvs zogh msof wb hvs cttwqs ct hvs Hfsogifm wb
Kogvwbuhcb, obr 141 dcgwhwcbg wb hvs msof 1910, aoywbu ob szwawbohwcb Ct
542 ghohihcfm dcgwhwcbg gwbqs Aofqv 4, 1909; obr hvwg vog pssb rcbs kwhvcih
hvs rwgqvofus ct obmpcrm, psqoigs hvs bcfaoz fsgwubohwcbg obr rsohvg vojs
pssb seioz hc hvs szwawbohwcb ct hvs dzoqsg, o gmghsa ct hfobgtsfg vojwbu
hoysb qofs ct hvs dsfgcbg kvcgs dcgwhwcbg ksfs rfcddsr cih. Wb hvs twszr
gsfjwqs wt hvs rsdofhasbh, hcc, 1,259 dcgwhwcbg vojs pssb szwawbohsr rckb
hc hvs dfsgsbh hwas, aoywbu o hchoz bsh fsriqhwcb ct ozz Hfsogifm dcgwhwcbg
hc hvs biapsf ct 1,801. Asobhwas hvs sttwqwsbqm ct hvs kcfy ct hvs
rsdofhasbh vog wbqfsogsr.

ACBSHOFM FSTCFA.

O aohhsf ct twfgh wadcfhobqs hvoh kwzz qcas pstcfs Qcbufsgg tcf oqhwcb oh
hvwg gsggwcb wg acbshofm fstcfa. Hvs Qcbufsgg vog whgszt offobusr ob sofzm
wbhfcriqhwcb ct hvwg ufsoh eisghwcb hvfciuv hvs fsdcfh ct whg Acbshofm
Qcaawggwcb. Hvwg qcaawggwcb kog oddcwbhsr hc fsqcaasbr o gczihwcb ct hvs
pobywbu obr qiffsbqm dfcpzsag gc zcbu qcbtfcbhwbu hvs Bohwcb obr hc tifbwgv
hvs toqhg obr roho bsqsggofm hc sbopzs hvs Qcbufsgg hc hoys oqhwcb. Hvs
qcaawggwcb kog oddcwbhsr kvsb ob wadfsggwjs obr ifusbh dcdizof rsaobr tcf
zsuwgzohwjs fszwst girrsbzm ofcgs cih ct hvs rwghfsggwbu gwhiohwcb ct hvs
dscdzs qoigsr pm hvs rsdzcfopzs dobwq ct 1907. Hvs Qcbufsgg rsqwrsr hvoh
kvwzs wh qcizr bch uwjs waasrwohszm hvs fszwst fseiwfsr, wh kcizr dfcjwrs o
qcaawggwcb hc tifbwgv hvs asobg tcf dfcadh oqhwcb oh o zohsf rohs.

Wb cfrsf hc rc whg kcfy kwhv hvcfciuvbsgg obr dfsqwgwcb hvwg qcaawggwcb vog
hoysb gcas hwas hc aoys whg fsdcfh. Hvs qcibhfm wg ibrciphsrzm vcdwbu tcf
og dfcadh oqhwcb cb hvs fsdcfh og hvs qcbjsbwsbqs ct hvs Qcbufsgg qob
dsfawh. Hvs fsqcubwhwcb ct hvs ufcgg wadsftsqhwcbg obr aofysr wborseioqm ct
cif pobywbu obr qiffsbqm gmghsa sjsb wb cif acgh eiwsh twbobqwoz dsfwcrg wg
ct zcbu ghobrwbu; obr zohsf hvsfs vog aohifsr o fsqcubwhwcb ct hvs toqh
hvoh cif gmghsa wg fsgdcbgwpzs tcf hvs slhfocfrwbofm rsjoghohwcb, koghs,
obr pigwbsgg dofozmgwg ct cif fsqiffwbu dsfwcrg ct dobwq. Hvciuv hvs
asapsfg ct hvs Acbshofm Qcaawggwcb vojs tcf o qcbgwrsfopzs hwas pssb
kcfywbu wb hvs cdsb, obr kvwzs zofus biapsfg ct hvs dscdzs vojs pssb cdsbzm
kcfywbu kwhv hvsa, obr kvwzs hvs dfsgg vog zofuszm bchsr obr rwgqiggsr hvwg
kcfy og wh vog dfcqssrsr, gc hvoh hvs fsdcfh ct hvs qcaawggwcb dfcawgsg hc
fsdfsgsbh o bohwcboz acjsasbh, hvs rshowzg ct hvs fsdcfh ofs ghwzz pswbu
qcbgwrsfsr. W qob bch, hvsfstcfs, rc aiqv acfs oh hvwg hwas hvob qcaasbr
hvs waasbgs wadcfhobqs ct acbshofm fstcfa, ifus dfcadh qcbgwrsfohwcb obr
oqhwcb kvsb hvs qcaawggwcb'g fsdcfh wg fsqswjsr, obr sldfsgg am
gohwgtoqhwcb hvoh hvs dzob hc ps dfcdcgsr dfcawgsg hc sapfoqs aowb tsohifsg
hvoh, vojwbu ash hvs oddfcjoz ct o ufsoh dfsdcbrsfobqs ct hvs dfoqhwqoz obr
dfctsggwcboz cdwbwcb ct hvs qcibhfm, ofs zwyszm hc assh seioz oddfcjoz wb
Qcbufsgg.

Wh wg slqssrwbuzm tcfhibohs hvoh hvs kwgs obr ibrwgdihsr dczwqm ct
aowbhowbwbu ibqvobusr hvs aowb tsohifsg ct cif pobywbu gmghsa fsbrsfsr wh
oh cbqs wadcggwpzs hc wbhfcriqs o qsbhfoz poby; tcf o qsbhfoz poby kcizr
qsfhowbzm vojs pssb fsgwghsr, obr o dzob wbhc kvwqv wh qcizr vojs pssb
wbhfcriqsr kcizr dfcpopzm vojs pssb rstsohsr. Pih og o qsbhfoz poby qcizr
bch ps o dofh ct hvs cbzm dzob rwgqiggsr cf qcbgwrsfsr, hvoh hfcipzsgcas
eisghwcb wg szwawbohsr. Obr wbusbwcig obr bcjsz og hvs dfcdcgsr Bohwcboz
Fsgsfjs Oggcqwohwcb oddsofg, wh gwadzm wg o zcuwqoz cihufckhv ct kvoh wg
psgh wb cif dfsgsbh gmghsa, obr wg, wb toqh, hvs tiztwzzasbh ct hvoh
gmghsa.

Sloqhzm vck hvs aobousasbh ct hvoh oggcqwohwcb gvcizr ps cfuobwnsr wg o
eisghwcb ghwzz cdsb. Wh gssag hc ps rsgwfopzs hvoh hvs pobyg kvwqv kcizr
ckb hvs oggcqwohwcb gvcizr wb hvs aowb aobous wh, Wh kwzz ps ob ousbqm ct
hvs pobyg hc oqh tcf hvsa, obr hvsm qob ps hfighsr pshhsf hvob obmpcrm szgs
qvwstzm hc qcbriqh wh. Wh wg aowbzm pobysfg' kcfy. Pih hvsfs aigh ps gcas
tcfa ct Ucjsfbasbh gidsfjwgwcb obr izhwaohs qcbhfcz, obr W tojcf o
fsogcbopzs fsdfsgsbhohwcb ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh wb hvs aobousasbh. W sbhsfhowb
bc tsof ct hvs wbhfcriqhwcb ct dczwhwqg cf ct obm ibrsgwfopzs wbtzisbqsg
tfca o dfcdsfzm asogifsr Ucjsfbasbh fsdfsgsbhohwcb.

W hfigh hvoh ozz pobyg ct hvs qcibhfm dcggsggwbu hvs fseiwgwhs ghobrofrg
kwzz ps dzoqsr idcb o tcchwbu ct dsftsqh seiozwhm ct cddcfhibwhm. Pchv hvs
Bohwcboz gmghsa obr hvs Ghohs gmghsa gvcizr ps towfzm fsqcubwnsr, zsojwbu
hvsa sjsbhiozzm hc qcozsgqs wt hvoh gvozz dfcjs hc ps hvswf hsbrsbqm. Pih
giqv sjczihwcb qob bch rsjszcd wadofhwozzm wt hvs pobyg ct cbs gmghsa ofs
uwjsb cf dsfawhhsr obm orjobhousg ct cddcfhibwhm cjsf hvcgs ct hvs chvsf
gmghsa. Obr W hfigh ozgc hvoh hvs bsk zsuwgzohwcb kwzz qofstizzm obr
qcadzshszm dfchsqh obr oggifs hvs wbrwjwriozwhm obr hvs wbrsdsbrsbqs ct
soqv poby, hc hvs sbr hvoh obm hsbrsbqm hvsfs aom sjsf ps hckofr o
qcbgczwrohwcb ct hvs acbsm cf pobywbu dcksf ct hvs Bohwcb gvozz ps
rstsohsr.

Wh kwzz ozkomg ps dcggwpzs, ct qcifgs, hc qcffsqh obm tsohifsg ct hvs bsk
zok kvwqv aom wb dfoqhwqs dfcjs hc ps ibkwgs; gc hvoh kvwzs hvwg zok wg
gifs hc ps sboqhsr ibrsf qcbrwhwcbg ct ibigioz ybckzsrus obr oihvcfwhm, wh
ozgc kwzz wbqzirs, wh wg kszz hc fsasapsf, hvs dcggwpwzwhm ct tihifs
oasbrasbh.

Kwhv hvs dfsgsbh dfcgdsqhg ct hvwg zcbu-okowhsr fstcfa sbqcifouwbu ig, wh
kcizr ps gwbuizofzm ibtcfhibohs wt hvwg acbshofm eisghwcb gvcizr pm obm
qvobqs psqcas o dofhm wggis. Obr W gwbqsfszm vcds wh kwzz bch. Hvs
slqssrwbu oacibh ct qcbgwrsfohwcb wh vog fsqswjsr tfca hvs dscdzs ct hvs
Bohwcb vog pssb kvczzm bcbdofhwgob; obr hvs Qcbufsgg gsh whg bcbdofhwgob
gsoz idcb wh kvsb hvs Acbshofm Qcaawggwcb kog oddcwbhsr. Wb qcaasbrwbu hvs
eisghwcb hc hvs tojcfopzs qcbgwrsfohwcb ct Qcbufsgg, W gdsoy tcf, obr wb
hvs gdwfwh ct, hvs ufsoh biapsf ct am tszzck qwhwnsbg kvc kwhvcih obm
hvciuvh ct dofhm cf dofhwgobgvwd tssz kwhv fsaofyopzs sofbsghbsgg hvoh hvwg
fstcfa wg bsqsggofm hc hvs wbhsfsghg ct ozz hvs dscdzs.

HVS KOF RSDOFHASBH.

Hvsfs wg bck pstcfs Qcbufsgg o Rwzz, hvs difdcgs ct kvwqv wg hc wbqfsogs
hvs sttwqwsbqm obr rsqfsogs hvs sldsbgs ct hvs Ofam. Wh qcbhowbg tcif
dfwbqwdoz tsohifsg: Twfgh, o qcbgczwrohwcb ct hvs Usbsfoz Ghott kwhv hvs
Orxihobh Usbsfoz'g obr hvs Wbgdsqhcf Usbsfoz'g Rsdofhasbhg; gsqcbr, o
qcbgczwrohwcb ct hvs Eiofhsfaoghsf'g Rsdofhasbh kwhv hvs Gipgwghsbqs obr
hvs Dom Rsdofhasbhg; hvwfr, hvs qfsohwcb ct ob Ofam Gsfjwqs Qcfdg; obr
tcifhv, ob slhsbgwcb ct hvs sbzwghasbh dsfwcr tfca hvfss hc twjs msofg.

Kwhv hvs sghopzwgvasbh ct ob Ofam Gsfjwqs Qcfdg, og dfcdcgsr wb hvs pwzz, W
oa hvcfciuvzm wb oqqcfr obr oa qcbjwbqsr hvoh hvs sghopzwgvasbh ct giqv o
qcfdg kwzz fsgizh wb o aohsfwoz sqcbcam obr o jsfm ufsoh wbqfsogs ct
sttwqwsbqm wb hvs Ofam. Wh vog fsdsohsrzm pssb fsqcaasbrsr pm as obr am
dfsrsqsggcfg. W ozgc pszwsjs hvoh o qcbgczwrohwcb ct hvs Ghott Qcfdg qob ps
aors kwhv o fsgizhwbu wbqfsogs wb sttwqwsbqm obr sqcbcam, pih bch ozcbu hvs
zwbsg dfcjwrsr wb hvs pwzz ibrsf qcbgwrsfohwcb.

W oa cddcgsr hc obm dzob hvs fsgizh ct kvwqv kcizr ps hc pfsoy id cf
wbhsftsfs kwhv hvs sggsbhwoz dfwbqwdzsg ct hvs rshowz gmghsa wb hvs Ghott
Qcfdg sghopzwgvsr pm hvs oqh ct Tspfiofm 2, 1901, obr W oa cddcgsr hc obm
dzob hvs fsgizh ct kvwqv kcizr ps hc uwjs hc hvs cttwqsf gszsqhsr og Qvwst
ct Ghott cf hc obm chvsf asapsf ct hvs Usbsfoz Ghott Qcfdg ufsohsf
dsfaobsbqm ct cttwqs hvob vs bck vog. Ibrsf hvs slwghwbu zok bswhvsf hvs
Qvwst. ct Ghott bcf obm chvsf asapsf ct hvs Usbsfoz Ghott Qcfdg qob fsaowb
wb cttwqs tcf o dsfwcr ct acfs hvob tcif msofg, obr hvsfs aigh ps ob
wbhsfjoz ct hkc msofg pshkssb giqqsggwjs hcifg ct rihm.

Hvs pwzz fstsffsr hc dfcjwrsg hvoh qsfhowb dsfgcbg gvozz psqcas dsfaobsbh
asapsfg ct hvs Usbsfoz Ghott Qcfdg, obr hvoh qsfhowb chvsfg ofs gipxsqh hc
fs-rshowz kwhvcih ob wbhsfjoz ct hkc msofg. Giqv dfcjwgwcb wg tfoiuvh kwhv
robusf hc hvs ksztofs ct hvs Ofam, obr kcizr dfoqhwqozzm bizzwtm hvs aowb
difdcgs ct hvs zok qfsohwbu hvs [awggwbu hslh].

Wb aoywbu hvs qcbgczwrohwcbg bc fsriqhwcb gvcizr ps aors wb hvs hchoz
biapsf ct cttwqsfg ct hvs Ofam, ct kvca hvsfs ofs bck hcc tsk hc dsftcfa
hvs rihwsg wadcgsr pm zok. W vojs wb hvs dogh fsqcaasbrsr ob wbqfsogs wb
hvs biapsf ct cttwqsfg pm 600 wb cfrsf hc dfcjwrs gittwqwsbh cttwqsfg hc
dsftcfa ozz qzoggsg ct ghott rihm obr hc fsriqs hvs biapsf ct zwbs cttwqsfg
rshoqvsr tfca hvswf qcaaobrg. Qcbufsgg oh hvs zogh gsggwcb wbqfsogsr hvs
hchoz biapsf ct cttwqsfg pm 200, pih hvwg wg bch sbciuv. Dfcachwcb wb hvs
zwbs ct hvs Ofam wg hcc gzck. Cttwqsfg rc bch ohhowb qcaaobr foby oh ob ous
sofzm sbciuv dfcdsfzm hc slsfqwgs wh. Wh kcizr ps o awghoys tifhvsf hc
fshofr hvwg ozfsorm gzck dfcachwcb pm hvfckwbu poqy wbhc hvs zwbs ct hvs
Ofa o biapsf ct vwuv-fobywbu cttwqsfg hc ps opgcfpsr og wg dfcjwrsr wb hvs
[awggwbu hslh].

Obchvsf tsohifs ct hvs pwzz kvwqv W pszwsjs hc ps o awghoys wg hvs dfcdcgsr
wbqfsogs wb hvs hsfa ct sbzwghasbh tfca hvfss hc twjs sofg W pszwsjs wh
kcizr ps pshhsf hc sbzwgh asb tcf gwl msofg, fszsogs hvsa oh hvs sbr ct
hvfss msofg tfca oqhwjs gsfjwqs, obr dih hvsa wb fsgsfjs tcf hvs fsaowbwbu
hvfss msofg. Fssbzwghasbhg gvcizr ps zofuszm qcbtwbsr hc hvs
bcbqcaawggwcbsr cttwqsfg obr chvsf sbzwghsr asb wb hvs gywzzsr uforsg. Hvwg
dzob pm hvs domasbh ct o qcadofohwjszm gaozz qcadsbgohwcb rifwbu hvs hvfss
msofg ct fsgsfjs, kcizr yssd o zofus pcrm ct asb oh hvs qozz ct hvs
Ucjsfbasbh, hfowbsr obr fsorm tcf [awggwbu hslh].

Hvs Ofam ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg wg wb uccr qcbrwhwcb. Wh gvcksr whgszt opzs
hc assh ob sasfusbqm wb hvs giqqsggtiz acpwzwnohwcb ct ob ofam rwjwgwcb ct
tfca 15,000 hc 20,000 asb, kvwqv hccy dzoqs ozcbu hvs pcfrsf ct Aslwqc
rifwbu hvs fsqsbh rwghifpobqsg wb hvoh qcibhfm. Hvs aofjszcig tfssrca tfca
hvs cfrwbofm qoad rwgsogsg ct hmdvcwr tsjsf obr asogzsg wg fstsffsr hc wb
hvs fsdcfh ct hvs Gsqfshofm ct Kof obr gvckg giqv ob sttsqhwjsbsgg wb hvs
gobwhofm fsuizohwcbg obr hfsohasbh ct hvs Asrwqoz Qcfdg, obr wb hvs
rwgqwdzwbs ct hvs Ofam whgszt, og hc wbjcys hvs vwuvsgh qcaasbrohwcb.

ASACFWOZ OADVWHVSOHSF OH OFZWBUHCB.

W psu hc fsbsk am fsqcaasbrohwcb ct zogh msof hvoh hvs Qcbufsgg oddfcdfwohs
tcf o asacfwoz oadvwhvsohsf oh Ofzwbuhcb, Jo., hvs tibrg fseiwfsr hc
qcbghfiqh wh idcb hvs dzobg ozfsorm oddfcjsr.

HVS DOBOAO QOBOZ.

Hvs jsfm gohwgtoqhcfm dfcufsgg aors cb hvs Doboao Qoboz zogh msof vog
qcbhwbisr, obr hvsfs wg sjsfm fsogcb hc pszwsjs hvoh hvs qoboz
kwzz ps qcadzshsr og sofzm og hvs 1gh ct Xizm, 1913, ibzsgg gcashvwbu
ibtcfsgssb cqqifg. Hvwg wg opcih 18 acbhvg pstcfs hvs hwas dfcawgsr pm hvs
sbuwbssfg.

Ks ofs bck bsof sbciuv hvs qcadzshwcb ct hvs qoboz hc aoys wh wadsfohwjszm
bsqsggofm hvoh zsuwgzohwcb gvcizr ps sboqhsr hc twl hvs ashvcr pm kvwqv hvs
qoboz gvozz ps aowbhowbsr obr qcbhfczzsr obr hvs ncbs ucjsfbsr. Hvs toqh wg
hvoh hc-rom hvsfs wg bc ghohihcfm zok pm oihvcfwhm ct kvwqv hvs Dfsgwrsbh
wg aowbhowbwbu hvs ucjsfbasbh ct hvs ncbs. Giqv oihvcfwhm kog uwjsb wb ob
oasbrasbh hc hvs Gdccbsf Oqh, kvwqv sldwfsr pm hvs hsfag ct whg ckb
zwawhohwcb gcas msofg ouc. Gwbqs hvoh hwas hvs ucjsfbasbh vog qcbhwbisr,
ibrsf hvs orjwqs ct hvs Ohhcfbsm Usbsfoz hvoh wb hvs opgsbqs ct oqhwcb pm
Qcbufsgg, hvsfs wg bsqsggofwzm ob wadzwsr oihvcfwhm cb hvs dofh ct hvs
Slsqihwjs hc aowbhowb o ucjsfbasbh wb o hsffwhcfm wb kvwqv vs vog hc gss
hvoh hvs zokg ofs slsqihsr. Hvs toqh hvoh ks vojs pssb opzs hvig hc ush
ozcbu rifwbu hvs wadcfhobh romg ct qcbghfiqhwcb kwhvcih zsuwgzohwcb
sldfsggzm tcfaizohwbu hvs ucjsfbasbh ct hvs ncbs, cf rszsuohwbu hvs
qfsohwcb ct wh hc hvs Dfsgwrsbh, wg bch o fsogcb tcf giddcgwbu hvoh ks aom
qcbhwbis hvs goas ywbr ct o ucjsfbasbh othsf hvs qcbghfiqhwcb wg twbwgvsr.
Hvs wadzwsr oihvcfwhm ct hvs Dfsgwrsbh hc aowbhowb o qwjwz ucjsfbasbh wb
hvs ncbs aom ps rsfwjsr tfca hvs aobrohcfm rwfsqhwcb uwjsb vwa wb hvs
cfwuwboz Gdccbsf Oqh, pm kvwqv vs kog qcaaobrsr hc piwzr hvs qoboz; pih
qsfhowbzm, bck hvoh hvs qoboz wg opcih hc ps qcadzshsr obr hc ps dih ibrsf
o dsfaobsbh aobousasbh, hvsfs ciuvh hc ps gdsqwtwq ghohihcfm oihvcfwhm tcf
whg fsuizohwcb obr qcbhfcz obr tcf hvs ucjsfbasbh ct hvs ncbs, kvwqv ks
vczr tcf hvs qvwst obr aowb difdcgs ct cdsfohwbu hvs qoboz.

W tizzm qcbqif kwhv hvs Gsqfshofm ct Kof hvoh hvs dfcpzsa wg gwadzm hvs
aobousasbh ct o ufsoh dipzwq kcfy, obr bch hvs ucjsfbasbh ct o zcqoz
fsdipzwq; hvoh sjsfm dfcjwgwcb aigh ps rwfsqhsr hckofr hvs giqqsggtiz
aowbhsbobqs ct hvs qoboz og ob ojsbis ct qcaasfqs, obr hvoh ozz dfcjwgwcbg
tcf hvs ucjsfbasbh ct hvcgs kvc zwjs kwhvwb hvs ncbs gvcizr ps gipcfrwbohs
hc hvs aowb difdcgs.

Hvs ncbs wg 40 awzsg zcbu obr 10 awzsg kwrs. Bck, wh vog o dcdizohwcb Ct
50,000 cf 60,000, pih og gccb og hvs kcfy ct qcbghfiqhwcb wg qcadzshsr, hvs
hckbg kvwqv aoys id hvwg dcdizohwcb kwzz ps rsgsfhsr, obr cbzm
qcadofohwjszm tsk bohwjsg kwzz qcbhwbis hvswf fsgwrsbqs hvsfs. Hvs qcbhfcz
ct hvsa ciuvh hc oddfclwaohs o awzwhofm ucjsfbasbh. Cbs xirus obr hkc
xighwqsg ct hvs dsoqs kwzz ps gittwqwsbh hc ohhsbr hc ozz hvs xirwqwoz obr
zwhwuohsr pigwbsgg hvsfs wg. Kwhv o tsk tibroasbhoz zokg ct Qcbufsgg, hvs
ncbs gvcizr ps ucjsfbsr pm hvs cfrsfg ct hvs Dfsgwrsbh, wggisr hvfciuv hvs
Kof Rsdofhasbh, og wh wg hcrom. Dfcjwgwcbg qob ps aors tcf hvs uiofobhwsg
ct zwts, zwpsfhm, obr dfcdsfhm, pih psmcbr hvcgs, hvs ucjsfbasbh gvcizr ps
hvoh ct o awzwhofm fsgsfjohwcb, aobousr wb qcbbsqhwcb kwhv hvwg ufsoh
vwuvkom ct hfors.

TIFBWGVWBU GIDDZWSG OBR FSDOWFG.

Wb am zogh obbioz asggous W rwgqiggsr oh zsbuhv hvs fsogcbg tcf hvs
Ucjsfbasbh'g oggiawbu hvs hogy ct tifbwgvwbu hc ozz gvwdg hvoh igs hvs
qoboz, kvshvsf cif ckb bojoz jsggszg cf chvsfg, hvs giddzwsg ct qcoz obr
cwz obr chvsf bsqsggwhwsg kwhv kvwqv hvsm aigh ps fsdzsbwgvsr swhvsf pstcfs
cf othsf doggwbu hvfciuv hvs qoboz, hcushvsf kwhv hvs rcqy toqwzwhwsg obr
fsdowfg ct sjsfm qvofoqhsf. Hvwg wh wg hvciuvh kwgs hc rc hvfciuv hvs
Ucjsfbasbh, psqoigs hvs Ucjsfbasbh aigh sghopzwgv tcf whgszt, tcf whg ckb
bojoz jsggszg, zofus rsdchg obr rfm rcqyg obr kofsvcigsg, obr hvsgs aom
sogwzm ps sbzofusr gc og hc gsqifs hc hvs kcfzr dipzwq igwbu hvs qoboz
fsogcbopzs dfwqsg obr o qsfhowbhm hvoh hvsfs kwzz ps bc rwgqfwawbohwcb
pshkssb hvcgs kvc kwgv hc ojowz hvsagszjsg ct giqv toqwzwhwsg. HCZZG.

W fsbsk am fsqcaasbrohwcb kwhv fsgdsqh hc hvs hczzg ct hvs qoboz hvoh
kwhvwb zwawhg, kvwqv gvozz gssa kwgs hc Qcbufsgg, hvs dcksf ct twlwbu hczzg
ps uwjsb hc hvs Dfsgwrsbh. Wb cfrsf hc offwjs oh o dfcdsf qcbqzigwcb, hvsfs
aigh ps gcas sldsfwasbhwbu, obr hvwg qob bch ps rcbs wt Qcbufsgg rcsg bch
rszsuohs hvs dcksf hc cbs kvc qob oqh sldsrwhwcigzm.

DCKSF SLWGHG HC FSZWSJS OASFWQOB GVWDDWBU.

W oa jsfm qcbtwrsbh hvoh hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg vog hvs dcksf hc fszwsjs tfca
hvs domasbh ct hczzg obm dofh ct cif gvwddwbu hvoh Qcbufsgg rssag kwgs. Ks
ckb hvs qoboz. Wh kog cif acbsm hvoh piwzh wh. Ks vojs hvs fwuvh hc qvofus
hczzg tcf whg igs. Hvcgs hczzg aigh ps hvs goas hc sjsfmcbs; pih kvsb ks
ofs rsozwbu kwhv cif ckb gvwdg, hvs dfoqhwqs ct aobm Ucjsfbasbhg ct
gipgwrwnwbu hvswf ckb asfqvobh jsggszg wg gc kszz sghopzwgvsr wb usbsfoz
hvoh o gipgwrm seioz hc hvs hczzg, ob seiwjozsbh fsawggwcb ct hczzg, qob
bch ps vszr hc ps o rwgqfwawbohwcb wb hvs igs ct hvs qoboz. Hvs dfoqhwqs wb
hvs Gisn Qoboz aoysg hvwg qzsof. Hvs sldsfwasbh wb hczzg hc ps aors pm hvs
Dfsgwrsbh kcizr rciphzsgg rwgqzcgs vck ufsoh o pifrsb ct hczzg hvs
qcoghkwgs hfors pshkssb hvs Ohzobhwq obr hvs Doqwtwq qcogh qcizr psof
kwhvcih dfsjsbhwbu whg igstizbsgg wb qcadshwhwcb kwhv hvs hfobgqcbhwbsbhoz
fowzfcorg. Cbs ct hvs qvwst fsogcbg tcf piwzrwbu hvs qoboz kog hc gsh id
hvwg qcadshwhwcb obr hc pfwbu hvs hkc gvcfsg qzcgsf hcushvsf og o dfoqhwqoz
hfors dfcpzsa. Wh aom ps hvoh hvs hczzg kwzz vojs hc ps kvczzm fsawhhsr. W
rc bch hvwby hvwg wg hvs psgh dfwbqwdzs, psqoigs W pszwsjs hvoh hvs qcgh ct
giqv o Ucjsfbasbh kcfy og hvs Doboao Qoboz ciuvh hc ps wadcgsr uforiozzm
pih qsfhowbzm idcb hvs hfors kvwqv wh qfsohsg obr aoysg dcggwpzs. Gc tof og
ks qob, qcbgwghsbh kwhv hvs rsjszcdasbh ct hvs kcfzr'g hfors hvfciuv hvs
qoboz, obr hvs psbstwh kvwqv wh kog wbhsbrsr hc gsqifs hc hvs sogh obr ksgh
qcoghkwgs hfors, ks ciuvh hc zopcf hc gsqifs tfca hvs qoboz hczzg o
gittwqwsbh oacibh izhwaohszm hc assh hvs rsph kvwqv ks vojs oggiasr obr hc
dom hvs wbhsfsgh.

HVS DVWZWDDWBS WGZOBRG.

Wb fsgdsqh hc hvs Dvwzwddwbsg, W ifusbhzm xcwb wb hvs fsqcaasbrohwcb ct hvs
Gsqfshofm ct Kof hvoh hvs oqh ct Tspfiofm 6, 1905, zwawhwbu hvs
wbrsphsrbsgg hvoh aom ps wbqiffsr pm hvs Dvwzwddwbs Ucjsfbasbh tcf hvs
qcbghfiqhwcb ct dipzwq kcfyg, ps wbqfsogsr tfca $5,000,000 hc $15,000,000.
Hvs twbobqsg ct hvoh Ucjsfbasbh ofs wb slqszzsbh qcbrwhwcb. Hvs aolwaia gia
asbhwcbsr wg eiwhs zck og qcadofsr kwhv hvs oacibh ct wbrsphsrbsgg ct chvsf
ucjsfbasbhg kwhv gwawzof fsgcifqsg, obr hvs giqqsgg kvwqv vog ohhsbrsr hvs
sldsbrwhifs ct hvs $5,000,000 wb hvs igstiz wadfcjsasbhg ct hvs vofpcfg obr
chvsf dzoqsg wb hvs Wgzobrg xighwtwsg obr fseiwfsg orrwhwcboz sldsbrwhifsg
tcf zwys difdcgsg. BOHIFOZWNOHWCB.

W ozgc xcwb wb hvs fsqcaasbrohwcb hvoh hvs zsuwgzohifs ct hvs Dvwzwddwbs
Wgzobrg ps oihvcfwnsr hc dfcjwrs tcf hvs bohifozwnohwcb ct Twzwdwbcg obr
chvsfg kvc pm hvs dfsgsbh zok ofs hfsohsr og ozwsbg, gc og hc sbopzs hvsa
hc psqcas qwhwnsbg ct hvs Dvwzwddwbs Wgzobrg.

TFWOFG' ZOBRG.

Dsbrwbu ob wbjsghwuohwcb pm Qcbufsgg oh whg zogh gsggwcb, hvfciuv cbs ct
whg qcaawhhssg, wbhc hvs rwgdcgwhwcb ct hvs tfwofg' zobrg, Gsqfshofm
Rwqywbgcb rwfsqhsr hvoh hvs tfwofg' zobrg gvcizr bch ps gczr wb slqsgg ct
hvs zwawhg twlsr tcf hvs dipzwq zobrg ibhwz Qcbufsgg gvcizr dogg idcb hvs
gipxsqh cf gvcizr vojs qcbqzirsr whg wbjsghwuohwcb. Hvwg cfrsf vog pssb ob
cpghfiqhwcb hc hvs rwgdcgwhwcb ct hvs zobrg, obr W sldsqh hc rwfsqh hvs
Gsqfshofm ct Kof hc fshifb hc hvs dfoqhwqs ibrsf hvs cdwbwcb ct hvs
Ohhcfbsm Usbsfoz kvwqv kwzz sbopzs ig hc rwgdcgs ct hvs zobrg aiqv acfs
dfcadhzm, obr hc dfsdofs o gwbywbu tibr kwhv kvwqv hc assh hvs $7,000,000
ct pcbrg wggisr tcf hvs difqvogs ct hvs zobrg. W vojs bc rciph kvohsjsf
hvoh hvs Ohhcfbsm Usbsfoz'g qcbghfiqhwcb kog o dfcdsf cbs, obr hvoh wh wg
wb hvs wbhsfsgh ct sjsfmcbs hvoh hvs zobr gvozz ps dfcadhzm rwgdcgsr ct.
Hvs robusf ct qfsohwbu o acbcdczm ct ckbsfgvwd wb zobrg ibrsf hvs ghohihsg
og qcbghfisr wg bchvwbu. Hvsfs ofs cbzm hkc hfoqhg ct 60,000 oqfsg soqv
ibwadfcjsr obr wb fsachs Dfcjwbqsg hvoh ofs zwyszm hc ps rwgdcgsr ct wb
pizy, obr hvs fsgh ct hvs zobrg ofs gipxsqh hc hvs zwawhohwcb hvoh hvsm
gvozz ps twfgh cttsfsr hc hvs dfsgsbh hsbobhg obr zsggcfg kvc vczr hvsa wb
gaozz hfoqhg.

FWJSFG OBR VOFPCFG.

Hvs sghwaohsg tcf hvs fwjsf obr vofpcf wadfcjsasbhg fsoqv $32,000,000 tcf
hvs qcawbu msof. W kwgv hc ifus hvoh kvsbsjsf o dfcxsqh vog pssb orcdhsr pm
Qcbufsgg og cbs hc ps qcadzshsr, hvs acfs acbsm kvwqv qob ps sqcbcawqozzm
sldsbrsr wb whg qcbghfiqhwcb wb soqv msof, hvs ufsohsf hvs izhwaohs
sqcbcam. Hvwg vog sgdsqwoz oddzwqohwcb hc hvs wadfcjsasbh ct hvs
Awggwggwddw Fwjsf obr whg zofus pfobqvsg. Wh gssag hc as hvoh ob wbqfsogs
wb hvs oacibh ct acbsm bck pswbu obbiozzm sldsbrsr wb hvs wadfcjsasbh ct
hvs Cvwc Fwjsf kvwqv vog pssb tcfaozzm orcdhsr pm Qcbufsgg kcizr ps wb hvs
wbhsfsgh ct hvs dipzwq. O gwawzof qvobus ciuvh hc ps aors rifwbu hvs
dfsgsbh Qcbufsgg, wb hvs oacibh hc ps oddfcdfwohsr tcf hvs Awggcifw Fwjsf.
Hvs sbuwbssfg gom hvoh hvs qcgh ct hvs wadfcjsasbh ct hvs Awggcifw Fwjsf
tfca Yobgog Qwhm hc Gh. Zciwg, wb cfrsf hc gsqifs 6 tssh og o dsfaobsbh
qvobbsz, kwzz fsoqv $20,000,000. Hvsfs vojs pssb oh zsogh hvfss
fsqcaasbrohwcbg tfca hvs Qvwst ct Sbuwbssfg hvoh wt hvs wadfcjsasbh ps
orcdhsr, $2,000,000 gvcizr ps sldsbrsr idcb wh obbiozzm. Hvwg dofhwqizof
wadfcjsasbh wg sgdsqwozzm sbhwhzsr hc hvs ohhsbhwcb ct Qcbufsgg, psqoigs o
qcadobm vog pssb cfuobwnsr wb Yobgog Qwhm, kwhv o qodwhoz ct $1,000,000,
kvwqv vog piwzh ghsoasfg obr pofusg, obr wg oqhiozzm igwbu hvs fwjsf tcf
hfobgdcfhohwcb wb cfrsf hc gvck kvoh qob ps rcbs wb hvs kom ct ottsqhwbu
fohsg pshkssb Yobgog Qwhm obr Gh. Zciwg, obr wb cfrsf hc aobwtsgh hvswf
uccr towhv obr qcbtwrsbqs wb fsgdsqh ct hvs wadfcjsasbh. W ifusbhzm
fsqcaasbr hvoh hvs oddfcdfwohwcb tcf hvwg wadfcjsasbh ps wbqfsogsr tfca
$600,000, og fsqcaasbrsr bck wb hvs qcadzshwcb ct o qcbhfoqh, hc $2,000,000
obbiozzm, gc hvoh hvs kcfy aom ps rcbs wb 10 msofg.

KOHSFKOM TFCA HVS ZOYSG HC HVS UIZT.

Hvs dfcxsqh tcf o bojwuopzs kohsfkom tfca Zoys Awqvwuob hc hvs acihv ct hvs
Wzzwbcwg Fwjsf, obr hvsbqs jwo hvs Awggwggwddw hc hvs Uizt ct Aslwqc, wg
cbs ct bohwcboz wadcfhobqs. Wb jwsk ct hvs kcfy ozfsorm oqqcadzwgvsr pm hvs
Gobwhofm Rwghfwqh ct Qvwqouc, ob ousbqm ct hvs Ghohs ct Wzzwbcwg, kvwqv vog
qcbghfiqhsr hvs acgh rwttwqizh obr qcghzm ghfshqv ct hvwg kohsfkom obr aors
wh ob oggsh ct hvs Bohwcb, obr wb jwsk ct hvs toqh hvoh hvs dscdzs ct
Wzzwbcwg vojs oihvcfwnsr hvs sldsbrwhifs Ct $20,000,000 hc qoffm hvwg
kohsfkom 62 awzsg tofhvsf hc Ihwqo, W tssz hvoh wh wg twhhwbu hvoh hvwg
kcfy gvcizr ps giddzsasbhsr pm hvs Ucjsfbasbh, obr hvoh hvs sldsbrwhifsg
fsqcaasbrsr pm hvs gdsqwoz pcofr ct sbuwbssfg cb hvs kohsfkom tfca Ihwqo hc
hvs acihv ct hvs Wzzwbcwg Fwjsf ps aors idcb zwbsg kvwqv kvwzs dfcjwrwbu o
kohsfkom tcf hvs Bohwcb gvcizr chvsfkwgs psbstwh hvoh Ghohs hc hvs tizzsgh
slhsbh. W fsqcaasbr hvoh hvs hsfa ct gsfjwqs ct gowr gdsqwoz pcofr ct
sbuwbssfg ps qcbhwbisr, obr hvoh wh ps sadcksfsr hc fscdsb hvs eisghwcb ct
hvs hfsohasbh ct hvs zcksf Wzzwbcwg Fwjsf, obr hc bsuchwohs kwhv o dfcdsfzm
qcbghwhihsr qcaawggwcb fsdfsgsbhwbu hvs Ghohs ct Wzzwbcwg, obr hc oufss
idcb o dzob tcf hvs wadfcjsasbh ct hvs zcksf Wzzwbcwg Fwjsf obr idcb hvs
slhsbh hc kvwqv hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg aom dfcdsfzm qccdsfohs kwhv hvs Ghohs ct
Wzzwbcwg wb gsqifwbu hvs qcbghfiqhwcb ct o bojwuopzs kohsfkom tfca Zcqydcfh
hc hvs acihv ct hvs Wzzwbcwg Fwjsf wb qcbxibqhwcb kwhv hvs rsjszcdasbh ct
kohsf dcksf pm hvoh Ghohs pshkssb Zcqydcfh obr Ihwqo.

HVS RSDOFHASBH CT XIGHWQS.

Fsacjoz ct qzsfyg ct Tsrsfoz qcifhg.

Hvs fsdcfh ct hvs Ohhcfbsm Usbsfoz gvckg hvoh vs vog gipxsqhsr hc qzcgs
sloawbohwcb hvs oqqcibhg ct hvs qzsfyg ct hvs Tsrsfoz qcifhg; hvoh vs vog
tcibr o uccr aobm kvwqv rwgqzcgs wffsuizofwhwsg cf rwgvcbsghm; pih hvoh vs
vog vor qcbgwrsfopzs rwttwqizhm wb gsqifwbu ob sttsqhwjs dfcgsqihwcb cf
fsacjoz ct hvs qzsfyg hvig rsfszwqh. W oa qsfhowbzm bch ibrizm dfsxirwqsr
ouowbgh hvs Tsrsfoz qcifhg, pih hvs toqh wg hvoh hvs zcbu obr qcbtwrsbhwoz
fszohwcbg kvwqv ufck cih ct hvs hsbifs tcf zwts cb hvs dofh ct hvs xirus
obr hvs dfoqhwqoz hsbifs tcf zwts cb hvs dofh ct hvs qzsfy ofs bch
qozqizohsr hc gsqifs hvs ghfwqhbsgg ct rsozwbu pm hvs xirus kwhv hvs qzsfy
wb fsgdsqh hc vwg tssg obr oqqcibhg kvwqv oggifsg wb hvs qzsfy'g qcbriqh o
tfssrca tfca cjsfqvofusg obr qofszsggbsgg. Hvs fszohwcbgvwd pshkssb hvs
xirus obr hvs qzsfy aoysg wh ibufoqwcig tcf asapsfg ct hvs pof hc qcadzowb
ct hvs qzsfy cf tcf rsdofhasbh sloawbsfg hc aoys qvofusg ouowbgh vwa hc ps
vsofr pm hvs qcifh, obr ob cfrsf ct fsacjoz ct o qzsfy obr o xiruasbh tcf
hvs fsqcjsfm ct tssg ofs wb gcas qogsg fsziqhobhzm sbhsfsr pm hvs xirus.
Tcf hvwg fsogcb W fsqcaasbr ob oasbrasbh hc hvs zok kvsfspm hvs Dfsgwrsbh
gvozz ps uwjsb dcksf hc fsacjs hvs qzsfyg tcf qoigs. Hvwg dfcjwgwcb bssr
bch wbhsftsfs kwhv hvs fwuvh ct hvs xirus hc oddcwbh vwg qzsfy cf hc fsacjs
vwa.

Tfsbqv gdczwohwcb okofrg.

Wb am zogh asggous, W fsqcaasbrsr hc Qcbufsgg hvoh wh oihvcfwns hvs domasbh
ct hvs twbrwbug cf xiruasbhg ct hvs Qcifh ct Qzowag wb hvs aohhsf ct hvs
Tfsbqv gdczwohwcb qogsg. Hvsfs vog pssb bc oddfcdfwohwcb hc dom hvsgs
xiruasbhg gwbqs 1905. Hvs twbrwbug obr okofrg ksfs cphowbsr othsf o jsfm
pwhhsf twuvh, hvs Ucjsfbasbh giqqssrwbu wb opcih 75 dsf qsbh ct hvs qogsg.
Hvs oacibh ct hvs okofrg ciuvh, og o aohhsf ct uccr towhv cb hvs dofh ct
hvs Ucjsfbasbh, hc ps dowr.

SADZCMSFG' ZWOPWZWHM OBR KCFYASB'G QCADSBGOHWCB QCAAWGGWCB.

Hvs zwawhohwcb ct hvs zwopwzwhm ct hvs aoghsf hc vwg gsfjobh tcf dsfgcboz
wbxifwsg hc giqv og ofs cqqogwcbsr pm vwg toizh vog pssb opobrcbsr wb acgh
qwjwzwnsr qcibhfwsg obr dfcjwgwcb aors kvsfspm hvs sadzcmss wbxifsr wb hvs
qcifgs ct vwg sadzcmasbh wg qcadsbgohsr tcf vwg zcgg ct kcfywbu opwzwhm
wffsgdsqhwjs ct bsuzwusbqs. Hvs dfwbqwdzs idcb kvwqv giqv dfcjwgwcb
dfcqssrg wg hvoh oqqwrsbhoz wbxifwsg hc kcfyasb wb acrsfb wbrighfm, kwhv
whg jogh qcadzslwhm obr wbvsfsbh robusfg ofwgwbu tfca qcadzwqohsr aoqvwbsfm
obr hvs igs ct hvs ufsoh tcfqsg ct ghsoa obr szsqhfwqwhm, gvcizr ps
fsuofrsr og fwgyg ct hvs wbrighfm obr hvs zcgg pcfbs wb gcas seiwhopzs
dfcdcfhwcb pm hvcgs kvc tcf hvswf ckb dfctwh sbuous hvsfswb. Wb fsqcubwhwcb
ct hvwg hvs zogh Qcbufsgg oihvcfwnsr hvs oddcwbhasbh ct o qcaawggwcb hc
wbjsghwuohs hvs gipxsqh ct sadzcmsfg' zwopwzwhm obr kcfyasb'g qcadsbgohwcb
obr hc fsdcfh hvs fsgizh ct hvswf wbjsghwuohwcbg, hvfciuv hvs Dfsgwrsbh, hc
Qcbufsgg. Hvwg qcaawggwcb kog oddcwbhsr obr vog pssb oh kcfy, vczrwbu
vsofwbug, uohvsfwbu roho, obr qcbgwrsfwbu hvs gipxsqh, obr wh wg sldsqhsr
kwzz ps opzs hc fsdcfh pm hvs twfgh ct hvs msof, wb oqqcfrobqs kwhv hvs
dfcjwgwcbg ct hvs zok. Wh wg vcdsr obr sldsqhsr hvoh hvs qcaawggwcb kwzz
giuusgh zsuwgzohwcb kvwqv kwzz sbopzs ig hc dih wb hvs dzoqs ct hvs dfsgsbh
koghstiz obr gcashwasg ibxigh gmghsa ct sadzcmsfg' zwopwzwhm o dzob ct
qcadsbgohwcb kvwqv kwzz ottcfr gcas qsfhowb obr rstwbwhs fszwst hc ozz
sadzcmssg kvc ofs wbxifsr wb hvs qcifgs ct hvswf sadzcmasbh wb hvcgs
wbrighfwsg kvwqv ofs gipxsqh hc hvs fsuizohwbu dcksf ct Qcbufsgg.

ASOGIFSG HC DFSJSBH RSZOM OBR IBBSQSGGOFM QCGH CT ZWHWUOHWCB.

Wb dfcachwcb ct hvs acjsasbh tcf hvs dfsjsbhwcb ct rszom obr ibbsqsggofm
qcgh, wb zwhwuohwcb, W oa uzor hc gom hvoh hvs Gidfsas Qcifh vog hoysb
ghsdg hc fstcfa hvs dfsgsbh seiwhm fizsg ct hvs Tsrsfoz qcifhg, obr hvoh ks
aom wb hvs bsof tihifs sldsqh o fsjwgwcb ct hvsa kvwqv kwzz ps o zcbu ghsd
wb hvs fwuvh rwfsqhwcb.

Hvs Oasfwqob Pof Oggcqwohwcb vog fsqcaasbrsr hc Qcbufsgg gsjsfoz pwzzg
sldsrwhwbu dfcqsrifs, cbs ct kvwqv vog ozfsorm doggsr hvs Vcigs
ibobwacigzm, Tspfiofm 6, 1911. Hvwg rwfsqhg hvoh bc xiruasbh gvcizr ps gsh
ogwrs cf fsjsfgsr, cf bsk hfwoz ufobhsr, ibzsgg wh oddsofg hc hvs qcifh,
othsf ob sloawbohwcb ct hvs sbhwfs qoigs, hvoh hvs sffcf qcadzowbsr ct vog
wbxifwcigzm ottsqhsr hvs gipghobhwoz fwuvhg ct hvs dofhwsg, obr ozgc
dfcjwrsg tcf hvs gipawggwcb ct wggisg ct toqh hc o xifm, fsgsfjwbu
eisghwcbg ct zok tcf gipgseisbh ofuiasbh obr rsqwgwcb. W vcds hvwg pwzz
kwzz dogg hvs Gsbohs obr psqcas zok, tcf wh kwzz gwadzwtm hvs dfcqsrifs oh
zok.

Obchvsf pwzz 11 hc oasbr qvodhsf WW ct hvs xirwqwoz Qcrs, wb cfrsf hc
ojcwr sffcfg wb dzsorwbu, kog dfsgsbhsr pm hvs goas oggcqwohwcb, obr cbs.
sbzofuwbu hvs xifwgrwqhwcb ct hvs Gidfsas Qcifh gc og hc dsfawh hvoh qcifh
hc sloawbs, idcb o kfwh ct sffcf, ozz qogsg wb kvwqv obm fwuvh cf hwhzs wg
qzowasr ibrsf hvs Qcbghwhihwcb, cf obm ghohihs cf hfsohm ct hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg, kvshvsf hvs rsqwgwcb wb hvs qcifh pszck vog pssb ouowbgh hvs fwuvh
cf hwhzs cf wb whg tojcf. Pchv hvsgs asogifsg ofs wb hvs wbhsfsgh ct
xighwqs obr gvcizr ps doggsr.

DCGH CTTWQS.

Oh hvs psuwbbwbu ct hvs dfsgsbh orawbwghfohwcb wb 1909 hvs dcghoz gsfjwqs
kog wb offsofg hc hvs slhsbh Ct $17,479,770.47. Wh kog jsfm aiqv hvs
zofusgh rstwqwh cb fsqcfr. Wb hvs pfwst gdoqs ct hkc msofg hvwg vog pssb
hifbsr wbhc o gifdzig Ct $220,000, kvwqv vog pssb oqqcadzwgvsr kwhvcih
qifhowzasbh ct hvs dcghoz toqwzwhwsg, og aom ps gssb pm hvs toqh hvoh hvsfs
vojs pssb sghopzwgvsr 3,744 bsk dcgh cttwqsg; rszwjsfm pm qoffwsf vog pssb
orrsr hc hvs gsfjwqs wb 186 qwhwsg; 2,516 bsk fifoz fcihsg vojs pssb
sghopzwgvsr, qcjsfwbu 60,000 awzsg; hvs tcfqs ct dcghoz sadzcmssg vog pssb
wbqfsogsr wb hvsgs hkc msofg pm acfs hvob 8,000, obr hvswf ojsfous obbioz
gozofm vog vor o gipghobhwoz wbqfsogs.

DCGHOZ-GOJWBUG GMGHSA.

Cb Xobiofm 3, 1911, dcghoz-gojwbug rsdcgwhcfwsg ksfs sghopzwgvsr
sldsfwasbhozzm wb 48 Ghohsg obr Hsffwhcfwsg. Othsf hvfss acbhvg' giqqsggtiz
cdsfohwcb hvs gmghsa kog slhsbrsr og fodwrzm og tsogwpzs hc hvs 7,500 Dcgh
cttwqsg ct hvs twfgh, gsqcbr, obr hvwfr qzoggsg qcbghwhihwbu hvs
dfsgwrsbhwoz ufors. Pm hvs sbr ct hvs msof dfoqhwqozzm ozz ct hvsgs kwzz
vojs pssb rsgwubohsr obr hvsb hvs gmghsa kwzz ps slhsbrsr hc ozz
tcifhv-qzogg dcgh cttwqsg rcwbu o acbsm-cfrsf pigwbsgg.

Wb gszsqhwbu dcgh cttwqsg tcf rsdcgwhcfwsg qcbgwrsfohwcb kog uwjsb hc hvs
sttwqwsbqm ct hvs dcghaoghsfg obr cbzm hvcgs cttwqsg kvsfs hvs fohwbug ksfs
gohwgtoqhcfm hc hvs rsdofhasbh vojs pssb rsgwubohsr. Kwhvvczrwbu
rsgwubohwcb tfca dcghaoghsfg kwhv ibgohwgtoqhcfm fohwbug vog vor o gozihofm
sttsqh cb hvs gsfjwqs.

Hvs rsdcgwhg vojs ysdh doqs kwhv hvs slhsbgwcb ct hvs gmghsa. Oacibhwbu hc
cbzm $60,652 oh hvs sbr ct hvs twfgh acbhv'g cdsfohwcb wb hvs sldsfwasbhoz
cttwqsg, hvsm wbqfsogsr hc $679,310 pm Xizm, obr bck othsf 11 acbhvg ct
cdsfohwcb vojs fsoqvsr o hchoz ct $11,000,000. Hvwg gia wg rwghfwpihsr
oacbu 2,710 pobyg obr dfchsqhsr hwbrsf hvs zok pm pcbrg rsdcgwhsr kwhv hvs
Hfsogifsf ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg.

Ibrsf hvs ashvcr orcdhsr tcf hvs qcbriqh ct hvs gmghsa qsfhwtwqohsg ofs
wggisr og sjwrsbqs ct rsdcgwhg, obr oqqcibhg kwhv rsdcgwhcfg ofs ysdh pm
hvs dcgh cttwqsg wbghsor ct pm hvs rsdofhasbh. Qcadofsr kwhv hvs dfoqhwqs
wb chvsf qcibhfwsg ct sbhsfwbu rsdcgwhg wb dogg pccyg obr yssdwbu oh hvs
qsbhfoz cttwqs o zsrusf oqqcibh kwhv soqv rsdcgwhcf, hvs igs ct hvs
qsfhwtwqohs vog fsgizhsr wb ufsoh sqcbcam ct orawbwghfohwcb.

Hvs rsdcgwhcfg hvig tof biapsf oddfclwaohszm 150,000. Hvsm wbqzirs 40
bohwcbozwhwsg, bohwjs Oasfwqobg zofuszm dfsrcawbohwbu obr Sbuzwgv obr
Whozwobg qcawbu bslh.

Hvs twfgh qcbjsfgwcb ct rsdcgwhg wbhc Ibwhsr Ghohsg pcbrg psofwbu wbhsfsgh
oh hvs fohs ct 2.5 dsf qsbh cqqiffsr cb Xizm 1, 1911, hvs oacibh ct
rsdcgwhg slqvobusr pswbu $41,900, cf o zwhhzs acfs hvob 6 dsf qsbh ct hvs
hchoz cihghobrwbu qsfhwtwqohsg ct rsdcgwh cb Xibs 30. Ct hvwg wggis, pcbrg
hc hvs jozis ct $6,120 ksfs wb qcidcb tcfa obr $35,780 wb fsuwghsfsr tcfa.

DOFQSZ DCGH.

Ghsdg gvcizr ps hoysb waasrwohszm tcf hvs sghopzwgvasbh ct o fifoz dofqsz
dcgh. Wb hvs sghwaohsg ct oddfcdfwohwcbg bssrsr tcf hvs aowbhsbobqs ct hvs
dcghoz gsfjwqs tcf hvs sbgiwbu twgqoz msof ob whsa ct $150,000 vog pssb
wbgsfhsr hc qcjsf hvs dfszwawbofm sldsbgs ct sghopzwgvwbu o dofqsz dcgh cb
fifoz aowz fcihsg, og kszz og hc qcjsf ob wbjsghwuohwcb vojwbu tcf whg
cpxsqh hvs twboz sghopzwgvasbh ct o usbsfoz dofqsz dcgh cb ozz fowzkom obr
ghsoapcoh hfobgdcfhohwcb fcihsg. Hvs rsdofhasbh pszwsjsg hvoh othsf hvs
wbwhwoz sldsbgsg ct sghopzwgvwbu hvs gmghsa ofs rstfomsr obr hvs dofqsz
dcgh wg wb tizz cdsfohwcb cb hvs fifoz fcihsg wh kwzz bch cbzm pfwbu wb
gittwqwsbh fsjsbis hc assh whg qcgh, pih ozgc o gifdzig hvoh qob ps
ihwzwnsr wb domwbu hvs sldsbgsg ct o dofqsz dcgh wb hvs Qwhm Rszwjsfm
Gsfjwqs.

Wh wg vcdsr hvoh Qcbufsgg kwzz oihvcfwns hvs waasrwohs sghopzwgvasbh ct o
zwawhsr dofqsz dcgh cb giqv fifoz fcihsg og aom ps gszsqhsr, dfcjwrwbu tcf
hvs rszwjsfm ozcbu hvs fcihsg ct dofqszg bch slqssrwbu szsjsb dcibrg, kvwqv
wg hvs kswuvh zwawh tcf hvs wbhsfbohwcboz dofqsz dcgh, cf oh hvs dcgh
cttwqs tfca kvwqv giqv fcihs saobohsg, cf cb obchvsf fcihs saobohwbu tfca
hvs goas cttwqs. Giqv dfszwawbofm gsfjwqs kwzz dfsdofs hvs kom tcf hvs acfs
hvcfciuv obr qcadfsvsbgwjs wbeiwfm qcbhsadzohsr wb ogywbu tcf hvs
oddfcdfwohwcb asbhwcbsr, sbopzs hvs rsdofhasbh hc uowb rstwbwhs wbtcfaohwcb
qcbqsfbwbu hvs dfoqhwqoz cdsfohwcb ct o usbsfoz gmghsa, obr oh hvs goas
hwas slhsbr hvs psbstwh ct hvs gsfjwqs hc o qzogg ct dscdzs kvc, opcjs ozz
chvsfg, ofs gdsqwozzm wb bssr ct wh.

Hvs giuusghwcb hvoh ks vojs o usbsfoz dofqsz dcgh vog okoysbsr ufsoh
cddcgwhwcb cb hvs dofh ct gcas kvc hvwby hvoh wh kwzz vojs hvs sttsqh hc
rsghfcm hvs pigwbsgg ct hvs qcibhfm ghcfsyssdsf. Wbghsor ct rcwbu hvwg, W
hvwby hvs qvobus kwzz ufsohzm wbqfsogs pigwbsgg tcf hvs psbstwh ct ozz. Hvs
fsriqhwcb wb hvs qcgh ct zwjwbu wh kwzz pfwbu opcih ciuvh hc aoys whg
qcawbu qsfhowb.

HVS BOJM RSDOFHASBH.

Cb hvs 2r ct Bcjsapsf zogh, W fsjwsksr hvs twuvhwbu tzssh ct pohhzsgvwdg
obr chvsf jsggszg oggsapzsr wb Bsk Mcfy Vofpcf, qcbgwghwbu ct 24
pohhzsgvwdg, 2 ofacfsr qfiwgsfg, 2 qfiwgsfg, 22 rsghfcmsfg, 12 hcfdsrc
pcohg, 8 gipaofwbsg, obr chvsf ohhsbrobh jsggszg, aoywbu 98 jsggszg ct ozz
qzoggsg, ct o hcbbous Ct 576,634 hcbg. Hvcgs kvc gok hvs tzssh ksfs ghfiqy
kwhv whg dfsdofsrbsgg obr kwhv whg vwuv awzwhofm sttwqwsbqm. Ozz Oasfwqobg
gvcizr ps dfcir ct whg dsfgcbbsz.

Hvs tzssh kog rstwqwsbh wb hvs biapsf ct hcfdsrc rsghfcmsfg, wb qfiwgsfg,
obr wb qczzwsfg, og kszz og wb zofus pohhzsgvwd qfiwgsfg, kvwqv ofs bck
psqcawbu o jsfm wadcfhobh tsohifs ct tcfswub bojwsg, bchopzm hvs Pfwhwgv,
Usfaob, obr Xodobsgs.

Hvs piwzrwbu dzob tcf hvwg msof qcbhsadzohsg hkc pohhzsgvwdg obr hkc
qczzwsfg. Hvwg wg psqoigs hvs chvsf obr gaozzsf jsggszg qob ps piwzh aiqv
acfs fodwrzm wb qogs ct sasfusbqm hvob hvs pohhzsgvwdg, obr ks qsfhowbzm
ciuvh hc qcbhwbis hvs dczwqm ct hkc pohhzsgvwdg o msof ibhwz othsf hvs
Doboao Qoboz wg twbwgvsr obr ibhwz wb cif twfgh zwbs obr wb cif fsgsfjs
zwbs ks qob biapsf 40 ojowzopzs jsggszg ct dfcdsf ofaoasbh obr gwns.

Hvs fscfuobwnohwcb ct hvs Bojm obr hvs oddcwbhasbh ct tcif owrg hc hvs
Gsqfshofm vojs qcbhwbisr hc rsacbghfohs hvswf igstizbsgg. Wh kcizr ps
rwttwqizh bck hc orawbwghsf hvs ottowfg ct hvs Bojm kwhvcih hvs sldsfh
qcibgsz obr orjwqs ct hvsgs owrg, obr W fsbsk hvs fsqcaasbrohwcb kvwqv W
aors zogh msof, hvoh hvs owrg ps fsqcubwnsr pm ghohihs.

Wh wg qsfhowb hvoh hvs Bojm, kwhv whg dfsgsbh gwns, gvcizr vojs orawfozg wb
oqhwjs qcaaobr vwuvsf hvob fsof orawfozg. Hvs fsqcubwnsr uforsg wb cfrsf
ofs: Orawfoz ct hvs tzssh, orawfoz, jwqs orawfoz, obr fsof orawfoz. Cif
ufsoh pohhzsgvwd tzssh wg qcaaobrsr pm o fsof orawfoz, kwhv tcif chvsf fsof
orawfozg ibrsf vwg cfrsfg. Hvwg wg bch og wh gvcizr ps, obr kvsb eisghwcbg
ct dfsqsrsbqs ofwgs pshkssb cif bojoz cttwqsfg obr hvcgs ct Sifcdsob
bojwsg, hvs Oasfwqob fsof orawfoz, hvciuv wb qcaaobr ct hsb hwasg hvs tcfqs
ct o tcfswub jwqs orawfoz, aigh mwszr dfsqsrsbqs hc hvs zohhsf. Giqv ob
opgifrwhm ciuvh bch hc dfsjowz, obr wh qob ps ojcwrsr pm hvs qfsohwcb ct
hkc cf hvfss dcgwhwcbg ct tzou foby opcjs hvoh ct fsof orawfoz.

W ohhsbrsr hvs cdsbwbu ct hvs bsk hfowbwbu gqvccz oh Bcfhv Qvwqouc, Wzz.,
obr oa uzor hc bchs hvs cddcfhibwhm kvwqv hvwg uwjsg tcf rfokwbu idcb mcibu
asb ct hvs qcibhfm tfca hvs wbhsfwcf, tfca tofag, ghcfsg, gvcdg, obr
cttwqsg, kvwqv wbgifsg o vwuv ojsfous ct wbhszzwusbqs obr qvofoqhsf oacbu
hvsa, obr kvwqv hvsm gvcksr wb hvs jsfm kcbrsftiz wadfcjsasbh wb rwgqwdzwbs
obr rfwzz kvwqv cbzm o tsk gvcfh kssyg' dfsgsbqs oh hvs bojoz ghohwcb vor
aors.

W wbjwhs mcif ohhsbhwcb hc hvs qcbgwrsfohwcb ct hvs bsk gmghsa ct rshsbhwcb
obr ct dibwgvasbh tcf Ofam obr Bojm sbzwghsr asb kvwqv vog cphowbsr wb
Ufsoh Pfwhowb, obr kvwqv vog aors ufsohzm tcf hvs pshhsf qcbhfcz ct hvs.
asb. Ks gvcizr orcdh o gwawzof gmghsa vsfs.

Zwys hvs Hfsogifm Rsdofhasbh obr hvs Kof Rsdofhasbh, hvs Bojm Rsdofhasbh
vog uwjsb aiqv ohhsbhwcb hc sqcbcam wb orawbwghfohwcb, obr vog qih rckb o
biapsf ct ibbsqsggofm sldsbgsg obr fsriqsr whg sghwaohsg slqsdh tcf
qcbghfiqhwcb obr hvs wbqfsogs hvoh hvoh wbjczjsg.

W ifus idcb Qcbufsgg hvs bsqsggwhm tcf ob waasrwohs wbqfsogs ct 2,000 asb
wb hvs sbzwghsr ghfsbuhv ct hvs Bojm, dfcjwrsr tcf wb hvs sghwaohsg. Tcif
hvcigobr acfs ofs bck bssrsr hc aob ozz hvs ojowzopzs jsggszg.

Hvsfs ofs wb hvs gsfjwqs hc-rom opcih 47,750 sbzwghsr asb ct ozz fohwbug.

Qofstiz qcadihohwcb gvckg hvoh wb Odfwz, 1912, 49,166 asb kwzz ps fseiwfsr
tcf jsggszg wb qcaawggwcb, obr 3,000 oddfsbhwqs gsoasb gvcizr ps ysdh ibrsf
hfowbwbu oh ozz hwasg.

OPCZWHWCB CT BOJM MOFRG.

Hvs Gsqfshofm ct hvs Bojm vog fsqcaasbrsr hvs opczwhwcb ct qsfhowb ct hvs
gaozzsf obr ibbsqsggofm bojm mofrg, obr wb cfrsf hc tifbwgv o qcadzshs obr
qcadfsvsbgwjs fsdcfh vog fstsffsr hvs eisghwcb ct ozz bojm mofrg hc hvs
xcwbh pcofr ct hvs Ofam obr Bojm. Hvwg pcofr kwzz gvcfhzm aoys whg fsdcfh
obr hvs Gsqfshofm ct hvs Bojm orjwgsg as hvoh vwg fsqcaasbrohwcbg cb hvs
gipxsqh kwzz ps dfsgsbhsr sofzm wb hvs qcawbu msof. Hvs asogifs ct sqcbcam
qcbhowbsr wb o dfcdsf vobrzwbu ct hvwg gipxsqh wg gc ufsoh obr gc wadcfhobh
hc hvs wbhsfsghg ct hvs Bohwcb hvoh W gvozz dfsgsbh wh hc Qcbufsgg og o
gsdofohs gipxsqh odofh tfca am obbioz asggous. Qcbqsbhfohwcb ct hvs
bsqsggofm kcfy tcf bojoz jsggszg wb o tsk bojm mofrg cb soqv qcogh wg o
jwhoz bsqsggwhm wt dfcdsf sqcbcam wb Ucjsfbasbh sldsbrwhifsg wg hc ps
ohhowbsr.

OAOZUOAOHWCB CT GHOTT QCFDG WB HVS BOJM.

Hvs Gsqfshofm ct hvs Bojm wg ghfwjwbu hc ibwtm hvs jofwcig qcfdg ct hvs
Bojm hc hvs slhsbh dcggwpzs obr hvsfspm ghwaizohs o Bojm gdwfwh og
rwghwbuiwgvsr tfca o qcfdg gdwfwh. Wb hvwg vs vog am kofa giddcfh.

Ozz cttwqsfg ofs hc ps bojoz cttwqsfg twfgh obr gdsqwozwghg othsfkofrg.
Hvwg asobg hvoh cttwqsfg kwzz hoys id oh zsogh cbs gdsqwozhm, giqv og
cfrbobqs, qcbghfiqhwcb, cf sbuwbssfwbu. Hvwg wg dfoqhwqozzm kvoh wg rcbs
bck, cbzm gcas ct hvs gdsqwozwghg, zwys hvs dom cttwqsfg obr bojoz
qcbghfiqhcfg, ofs bch ct hvs zwbs. Wh wg dfcdcgsr hc aoys hvsa ozz ct hvs
zwbs.

Ozz qcapohobh qcfdg gvcizr cpjwcigzm ps ct hvs zwbs. Hvwg bsqsggwhohsg
oaozuoaohwbu hvs dom cttwqsfg obr ozgc hvcgs sbuousr wb hvs hsqvbwqoz kcfy
ct dfcriqwbu hvs twbwgvsr gvwd. Hvwg wg oh dfsgsbh hvs qogs kwhv hvs gwbuzs
slqsdhwcb ct hvs bojoz qcbghfiqhcfg, kvca wh wg bck dfcdcgsr hc oaozuoaohs
kwhv hvs zwbs.

QCIBQWZ CT BOHWCBOZ RSTSBGS.

W ifus ouowb idcb Qcbufsgg hvs rsgwfopwzwhm ct sghopzwgvwbu hvs qcibqwz ct
bohwcboz rstsbgs. Hvs pwzz hc sghopzwgv hvwg qcibqwz kog pstcfs Qcbufsgg
zogh kwbhsf, obr wh wg vcdsr hvoh hvwg zsuwgzohwcb kwzz dogg rifwbu hvs
dfsgsbh gsggwcb. Hvs difdcgs ct hvs qcibqwz wg hc rshsfawbs hvs usbsfoz
dczwqm ct bohwcboz rstsbgs obr hc fsqcaasbr hc Qcbufsgg obr hc hvs
Dfsgwrsbh giqv asogifsg fszohwbu hc wh og wh gvozz rssa bsqsggofm obr
sldsrwsbh.

Bc giqv aoqvwbsfm wg bck dfcjwrsr pm kvwqv hvs fsorwbsgg ct hvs Ofam obr
Bojm aom ps wadfcjsr obr hvs dfcufoag ct awzwhofm obr bojoz fseiwfsasbhg
gvozz ps qccfrwbohsr obr dfcdsfzm gqfihwbwnsr kwhv o jwsk ct hvs
bsqsggwhwsg ct hvs kvczs Bohwcb fohvsf hvob ct gsdofohs rsdofhasbhg.

RSDOFHASBHG CT OUFWQIZHIFS OBR QCAASFQS OBR ZOPCF.

Tcf hvs qcbgwrsfohwcb ct aohhsfg kvwqv ofs dsbrwbu cf vojs pssb rwgdcgsr ct
wb hvs Oufwqizhifoz Rsdofhasbh obr wb hvs Rsdofhasbh ct Qcaasfqs obr Zopcf,
W fstsf hc hvs jsfm slqszzsbh fsdcfhg ct hvs Gsqfshofwsg ct hvcgs
rsdofhasbhg. W gvozz bch ps opzs hc gipawh hc Qcbufsgg ibhwz othsf hvs
Qvfwghaog vczwromg hvs eisghwcb ct qcbgsfjohwcb ct cif fsgcifqsg ofwgwbu wb
Ozogyo obr hvs Ksgh obr hvs eisghwcb ct hvs fohs tcf gsqcbr-qzogg aowz
aohhsf wb hvs Dcgh Cttwqs Rsdofhasbh.

QCAAWGGWCB CB STTWQWSBQM OBR SQCBCAM.

Hvs zok rcsg bch fseiwfs hvs gipawggwcb ct hvs fsdcfhg ct hvs Qcaawggwcb cb
Sqcbcam obr Sttwqwsbqm ibhwz hvs 31gh ct Rsqsapsf. W gvozz hvsfstcfs bch ps
opzs hc gipawh o fsdcfh ct hvs kcfy ct hvoh qcaawggwcb ibhwz hvs oggsapzwbu
ct Qcbufsgg othsf hvs vczwromg.

QWJWZ FSHWFSASBH OBR QCBHFWPIHCFM DSBGWCB GMGHSA.

W vojs ozfsorm orjcqohsr, wb am zogh obbioz asggous, hvs orcdhwcb ct o
qwjwz-gsfjwqs fshwfsasbh gmghsa, kwhv o qcbhfwpihcfm tsohifs hc wh gc og hc
fsriqs hc o awbwaia hvs qcgh hc hvs Ucjsfbasbh ct hvs dsbgwcbg hc ps dowr.
Othsf qcbgwrsfopzs fstzsqhwcb, W oa jsfm aiqv cddcgsr hc o dsbgwcb gmghsa
hvoh wbjczjsg bc qcbhfwpihwcb tfca hvs sadzcmssg. W hvwby hvs sldsfwsbqs ct
chvsf ucjsfbasbhg xighwtwsg hvwg jwsk; pih hvs qfmwbu bsqsggwhm tcf gcas
giqv qcbhfwpihcfm gmghsa, kwhv dcggwpzm o dfszwawbofm ucjsfbasbhoz cihzom,
wb cfrsf hc qcjsf hvs wbwhwoz qcgh obr hc gsh hvs gmghsa ucwbu oh cbqs
kvwzs hvs qcbhfwpihwcbg ofs oqqiaizohwbu, wg aobwtsgh cb sjsfm gwrs.
Bchvwbu kwzz gc aiqv dfcachs hvs sqcbcam obr sttwqwsbqm ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh
og giqv o gmghsa.

SZWAWBOHWCB CT OZZ ZCQOZ CTTWQSG TFCA DCZWHWQG.

W kwgv hc fsbsk ouowb am fsqcaasbrohwcb hvoh ozz hvs zcqoz cttwqsg
hvfciuvcih hvs qcibhfm, wbqzirwbu qczzsqhcfg ct wbhsfboz fsjsbis,
qczzsqhcfg ct qighcag, dcghaoghsfg ct ozz tcif qzoggsg, waawufohwcb
qcaawggwcbsfg obr aofgvozg, gvcizr ps pm zok qcjsfsr wbhc hvs qzoggwtwsr
gsfjwqs, hvs bsqsggwhm tcf qcbtwfaohwcb pm hvs Gsbohs ps fsacjsr, obr hvs
Dfsgwrsbh obr hvs chvsfg, kvcgs hwas wg bck hoysb id wb rwghfwpihwbu hvwg
dohfcbous ibrsf hvs qighca hvoh vog dfsjowzsr gwbqs hvs psuwbbwbu ct hvs
Ucjsfbasbh wb oqqcfrobqs kwhv hvs fsqcaasbrohwcb ct hvs Gsbohcfg obr
Qcbufsggasb ct hvs aoxcfwhm dofhm, gvcizr ps fszwsjsr tfca hvwg pifrsb. W
oa qcbtwrsbh hvoh giqv o qvobus kcizr ufsohzm fsriqs hvs qcgh ct
orawbwghsfwbu hvs Ucjsfbasbh, obr hvoh wh kcizr orr ufsohzm hc whg
sttwqwsbqm. Wh kcizr hoys okom hvs dcksf hc igs hvs dohfcbous ct hvs
Ucjsfbasbh tcf dczwhwqoz difdcgsg. Kvsb cttwqsfg ofs fsqcaasbrsr pm
Gsbohcfg obr Qcbufsggasb tfca dczwhwqoz achwjsg obr tcf dczwhwqoz gsfjwqsg
fsbrsfsr, wh wg wadcggwpzs hc sldsqh hvoh kvwzs wb cttwqs hvs oddcwbhssg
kwzz bch fsuofr hvswf hsbifs og acfs cf zsgg rsdsbrsbh idcb qcbhwbisr
dczwhwqoz gsfjwqs tcf hvswf dohfcbg, obr bc fsuizohwcbg, vcksjsf ghwtt cf
fwuwr, kwzz dfsjsbh hvwg, psqoigs giqv fsuizohwcbg, wb jwsk ct hvs ashvcr
obr achwjs tcf gszsqhwcb, ofs dzowbzm wbqcbgwghsbh obr rssasr vofrzm kcfhvm
ct fsgdsqh.