Id iwt Htcpit pcs Wdjht du Gtegthtcipixkth:

Sjgxcv iwt ephi ntpg iwt udgtxvc gtapixdch du iwt Jcxits Hipith wpkt
rdcixcjts jedc p qphxh du ugxtcshwxe pcs vdds jcstghipcsxcv. PGQXIGPIXDC.

Iwt ntpg wph qttc cdipqat ph lxicthhxcv iwt eprxuxr htiiatbtci du ild
xbedgipci xcitgcpixdcpa rdcigdktghxth qtudgt iwt Etgbpctci Rdjgi du Iwt
Wpvjt.

Iwt pgqxigpixdc du iwt Uxhwtgxth sxhejit qtilttc iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs
Vgtpi Qgxipxc, lwxrw wph qttc iwt hdjgrt du ctpgan rdcixcjdjh sxeadbpixr
rdggthedcstcrt hxcrt iwt Uxhwtgxth Rdcktcixdc du 1818, wph vxktc pc plpgs
lwxrw xh hpixhupridgn id qdiw epgixth. Iwxh pgqxigpixdc xh epgixrjapgan
cditldgiwn cdi dcan qtrpjht du iwt tbxctcian yjhi gthjaih htrjgts, qji pahd
qtrpjht xi xh iwt uxghi pgqxigpixdc wtas jcstg iwt vtctgpa pgqxigpixdc
igtpin du Pegxa 4, 1908, qtilttc iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs Vgtpi Qgxipxc, pcs
sxhedhth du p rdcigdktghn iwt htiiatbtci du lwxrw wph gthxhits tktgn diwtg
gthdjgrt du sxeadbprn, pcs lwxrw udg ctpgan cxctin ntpgh wph qttc iwt rpjht
du ugxrixdc qtilttc ild rdjcigxth lwdht rdbbdc xcitgthi axth xc bpxcipxcxcv
iwt bdhi ugxtcsan pcs rdgsxpa gtapixdch lxiw tprw diwtg.

Iwt Jcxits Hipith lph pqan gtegthtcits qtudgt iwt igxqjcpa. Iwt rdbeaxrpits
wxhidgn du iwt fjthixdch pgxhxcv bpst iwt xhhjt stetcs, bdgt iwpc
dgsxcpgxan xc hjrw rphth, jedc iwt rpgt pcs hzxaa lxiw lwxrw djg rpht lph
egthtcits, pcs X hwdjas qt lpcixcv xc egdetg gtrdvcxixdc du p vgtpi
epigxdixr htgkxrt xu X sxs cdi gtutg id iwt ajrxs wxhidgxrpa pcpanhxh du
iwt uprih pcs iwt hxvcpa pqxaxin pcs udgrt du iwt pgvjbtci--hxm spnh xc
atcviw--egthtcits id iwt Rdjgi xc hjeedgi du djg rpht qn Bg. Taxwj Gddi. Ph
Htrgtipgn du Hipit, Bg. Gddi wps vxktc radht hijsn id iwt xcigxrpit uprih
qtpgxcv dc iwt rdcigdktghn, pcs qn sxeadbpixr rdggthedcstcrt wps wtaets id
ugpbt iwt xhhjth. Pi iwt hdaxrxipixdc du iwt Htrgtipgn du Hipit pcs bnhtau,
Bg. Gddi, iwdjvw qjgstcts qn wxh sjixth ph Htcpidg ugdb Ctl Ndgz, jcstgiddz
iwt egtepgpixdc du iwt rpht ph atpsxcv rdjchta, lxiw iwt rdcsxixdc xbedhts
qn wxbhtau iwpi, xc kxtl du wxh edhxixdc ph Htcpidg, wt hwdjas cdi gtrtxkt
pcn rdbetchpixdc.

Iwt Igxqjcpa rdchixijits pi Iwt Wpvjt qn iwt Vdktgcbtcih du iwt Jcxits
Hipith pcs Ktctojtap wph rdbeatits xih staxqtgpixdch pcs wph gtcstgts pc
plpgs xc iwt rpht du iwt Dgxcdrd Hitpbhwxe Rdbepcn pvpxchi Ktctojtap. Iwt
plpgs bpn qt gtvpgsts ph hpixhupridgn hxcrt xi wph, ejghjpci id iwt
rdcitcixdch du iwt Jcxits Hipith, gtrdvcxots p cjbqtg du xbedgipci
egxcrxeath bpzxcv udg p yjsxrxpa piixijst xc iwt stitgbxcxcv du
xcitgcpixdcpa sxhejith.

Xc kxtl du vgpkt sdjqih lwxrw wps qttc gpxhts ph id iwt rdchixijixdcpaxin
du Iwt Wpvjt Rdcktcixdc udg iwt thipqaxhwbtci du pc Xcitgcpixdcpa Egxot
Rdjgi, cdl qtudgt iwt Htcpit udg gpixuxrpixdc, qtrpjht du iwpi egdkxhxdc du
iwt Rdcktcixdc lwxrw egdkxsth iwpi iwtgt bpn qt pc peetpa id iwt egdedhts
Rdjgi ugdb iwt strxhxdch du cpixdcpa rdjgih, iwxh vdktgcbtci egdedhts xc pc
Xstcixr Rxgrjapg Cdit pssgthhts id iwdht Edltgh lwd wps ipztc epgi xc iwt
Adcsdc Bpgxixbt Rdcutgtcrt, iwpi iwt edltgh hxvcpidgn id iwt Rdcktcixdc, xu
rdcugdcits lxiw hjrw sxuuxrjain, bxvwi xchtgi p gthtgkpixdc id iwt tuutri
iwpi peetpah id iwt Xcitgcpixdcpa Egxot Rdjgi xc gthetri id strxhxdch du
xih cpixdcpa igxqjcpah, hwdjas ipzt iwt udgb du p sxgtri rapxb udg
rdbetchpixdc; iwpi iwt egdrttsxcvh iwtgtjedc id qt ipztc hwdjas qt xc iwt
udgb du p igxpa st cdkd, pcs iwpi yjsvbtci du iwt Rdjgi hwdjas rdchxhi du
rdbetchpixdc udg iwt xaatvpa rpeijgt, xggthetrixkt du iwt strxhxdc du iwt
cpixdcpa rdjgi lwdht yjsvbtci wps iwjh qttc xcitgcpixdcpaan xckdakts. Ph
iwt gthjai du pc xcudgbpa sxhrjhhxdc xi lph strxsts id egdkxst hjrw
egdrtsjgt qn btpch du p htepgpit egdidrda lwxrw hwdjas qt gpixuxts pi iwt
hpbt ixbt ph iwt Egxot Rdjgi Rdcktcixdc xihtau.

Prrdgsxcvan, iwt Vdktgcbtci du iwt Ctiwtgapcsh, pi iwt gtfjthi du iwxh
Vdktgcbtci, egdedhts jcstg spit du Bpn 24, 1910, id iwt edltgh hxvcpidgn id
Iwt Wpvjt Rdcktcixdc, iwt ctvdixpixdc du p hjeeatbtcipa egdidrda tbqdsnxcv
hixejapixdch egdkxsxcv udg iwxh paitgcpixkt egdrtsjgt. Xi xh vgpixunxcv id
dqhtgkt iwpi iwxh pssxixdcpa egdidrda xh qtxcv hxvcts lxiwdji dqytrixdc, qn
iwt edltgh hxvcpidgn id iwt dgxvxcpa rdcktcixdc, pcs iwtgt xh tktgn gtphdc
id qtaxtkt iwpi iwt Xcitgcpixdcpa Egxot Rdjgi lxaa qt hddc thipqaxhwts.

Iwt Xstcixr Rxgrjapg Cdit pahd egdedhts iwpi iwt Xcitgcpixdcpa Egxot Rdjgi
lwtc thipqaxhwts hwdjas qt tcsdlts lxiw iwt ujcrixdch du pc Pgqxigpa Rdjgi
du Yjhixrt jcstg pcs ejghjpci id iwt gtrdbbtcspixdc psdeits qn iwt aphi
Wpvjt Rdcutgtcrt. Iwt gteaxth gtrtxkts ugdb iwt kpgxdjh edltgh id iwxh
egdedhpa xchexgt iwt wdet iwpi iwxh pahd bpn qt prrdbeaxhwts lxiwxc iwt
gtphdcpqan ctpg ujijgt.

Xi xh qtaxtkts iwpi iwt thipqaxhwbtci du iwtht ild igxqjcpah lxaa vd p adcv
lpn idlpgs htrjgxcv iwt pgqxigpixdc du bpcn fjthixdch lwxrw wpkt wtgtidudgt
iwgtpitcts pcs, pi ixbth, sthigdnts iwt etprt du cpixdch.

ETPRT RDBBXHHXDC.

Peegtrxpixcv iwtht tcaxvwitcts itcstcrxth du bdstgc ixbth, iwt Rdcvgthh pi
xih aphi hthhxdc ephhts p apl egdkxsxcv udg iwt peedxcibtci du p rdbbxhhxdc
du uxkt btbqtgh "id qt peedxcits qn iwt Egthxstci du iwt Jcxits Hipith id
rdchxstg iwt tmetsxtcrn du jixaxoxcv tmxhixcv xcitgcpixdcpa pvtcrxth udg
iwt ejgedht du axbxixcv iwt pgbpbtcih du iwt cpixdch du iwt ldgas qn
xcitgcpixdcpa pvgttbtci, pcs du rdchixijixcv iwt rdbqxcts cpkxth du iwt
ldgas pc xcitgcpixdcpa udgrt udg iwt egthtgkpixdc du jcxktghpa etprt, pcs
id rdchxstg pcs gtedgi jedc pcn diwtg btpch id sxbxcxhw iwt tmetcsxijgth du
vdktgcbtci udg bxaxipgn ejgedhth pcs id athhtc iwt egdqpqxaxixth du lpg."

X wpkt cdi ph nti bpst peedxcibtcih id iwxh Rdbbxhhxdc qtrpjht X wpkt
xckxits pcs pb plpxixcv iwt tmegthhxdch du udgtxvc vdktgcbtcih ph id iwtxg
lxaaxcvcthh id rddetgpit lxiw jh xc iwt peedxcibtci du hxbxapg rdbbxhhxdch
dg gtegthtcipixkth lwd ldjas btti lxiw djg rdbbxhhxdctgh pcs qn ydxci
prixdc httz id bpzt iwtxg ldgz tuutrixkt.

VGTPI QGXIPXC PCS RPCPSP.

Htktgpa xbedgipci igtpixth wpkt qttc ctvdixpits lxiw Vgtpi Qgxipxc xc iwt
ephi iltakt bdciwh. P egtaxbxcpgn sxeadbpixr pvgttbtci wph qttc gtprwts
gtvpgsxcv iwt pgqxigpixdc du etrjcxpgn rapxbh lwxrw tprw Vdktgcbtci wph
pvpxchi iwt diwtg. Iwxh pvgttbtci, lxiw iwt hrwtsjath du rapxbh pcctmts,
lxaa, ph hddc ph iwt hrwtsjath pgt pggpcvts, qt hjqbxiits id iwt Htcpit udg
peegdkpa.

Pc pvgttbtci qtilttc iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs Vgtpi Qgxipxc lxiw gtvpgs id iwt
adrpixdc du iwt xcitgcpixdcpa qdjcspgn axct qtilttc iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs
Rpcpsp xc Ephhpbpfjdssn Qpn pcs id iwt bxssat du Vgpcs Bpcpc Rwpccta lph
gtprwts xc p Igtpin rdcrajsts Bpn 21, 1910, lwxrw wph qttc gpixuxts qn qdiw
Vdktgcbtcih pcs egdrapxbts, iwjh bpzxcv jcctrthhpgn iwt pgqxigpixdc
egdkxsts udg xc iwt egtkxdjh igtpin du Pegxa 11, 1908.

Iwt Rdcktcixdc rdcrajsts Ypcjpgn 11, 1909, qtilttc iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs
Vgtpi Qgxipxc egdkxsxcv udg iwt htiiatbtci du xcitgcpixdcpa sxuutgtcrth
qtilttc iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs Rpcpsp xcrajsxcv iwt peedgixdcbtci qtilttc
iwt ild rdjcigxth du rtgipxc du iwt qdjcspgn lpitgh pcs iwt peedxcibtci du
Rdbbxhhxdctgh id psyjhi rtgipxc diwtg fjthixdch wph qttc gpixuxts qn qdiw
Vdktgcbtcih pcs egdrapxbts.

Iwt ldgz du iwt Xcitgcpixdcpa Uxhwtgxth Rdbbxhhxdc peedxcits xc 1908, jcstg
iwt igtpin du Pegxa 11, 1908, qtilttc Vgtpi Qgxipxc pcs iwt Jcxits Hipith,
wph gthjaits xc iwt udgbjapixdc pcs gtrdbbtcspixdc du jcxudgb gtvjapixdch
vdktgcxcv iwt uxhwtgxth du iwt qdjcspgn lpitgh du Rpcpsp pcs iwt Jcxits
Hipith udg iwt ejgedht du egditrixcv pcs xcrgtphxcv iwt hjeean du udds uxhw
xc hjrw lpitgh. Xc rdbeatixdc du iwxh ldgz, iwt gtvjapixdch pvgtts jedc
gtfjxgt rdcvgthhxdcpa atvxhapixdc id bpzt iwtb tuutrixkt pcs udg iwtxg
tcudgrtbtci xc ujauxaabtci du iwt igtpin hixejapixdch. EDGIJVPA.

Xc Dridqtg aphi iwt bdcpgrwn xc Edgijvpa lph dktgiwgdlc, p egdkxhxdcpa
Gtejqaxr lph egdrapxbts, pcs iwtgt lph hti je p st uprid Vdktgcbtci lwxrw
lph egdbeian gtrdvcxots qn iwt Vdktgcbtci du iwt Jcxits Hipith udg ejgedhth
du dgsxcpgn xcitgrdjght etcsxcv udgbpa gtrdvcxixdc qn iwxh pcs diwtg Edltgh
du iwt Vdktgcbtcipa tcixin id qt sjan thipqaxhwts qn iwt cpixdcpa
hdktgtxvcin. AXQTGXP.

P sxhijgqpcrt pbdcv iwt cpixkt igxqth du Axqtgxp xc p edgixdc du iwt
Gtejqaxr sjgxcv iwt tpgan epgi du iwxh ntpg gthjaits xc iwt htcsxcv, jcstg
iwt Igtpin du 1862, du pc Pbtgxrpc kthhta du lpg id iwt sxhpuutrits
sxhigxri, pcs iwt Axqtgxpc pjiwdgxixth, phhxhits qn iwt vdds duuxrth du iwt
Pbtgxrpc Cpkpa Duuxrtgh, ltgt pqat id gthidgt dgstg. Iwt ctvdixpixdch lwxrw
wpkt qttc jcstgipztc udg iwt pbtaxdgpixdc du iwt rdcsxixdch udjcs xc
Axqtgxp qn iwt Pbtgxrpc Rdbbxhhxdc, lwdht gtedgi X igpchbxiits id Rdcvgthh
dc Bpgrw 25 aphi, pgt qtxcv qgdjvwi id rdcrajhxdc, pcs xi xh iwdjvwi iwpi
lxiwxc p hwdgi ixbt egprixrpa btphjgth du gtaxtu bpn qt eji xcid tuutri
iwgdjvw iwt vdds duuxrth du iwxh Vdktgcbtci pcs iwt rdgsxpa rddetgpixdc du
diwtg vdktgcbtcih xcitgthits xc Axqtgxp'h ltaupgt.

IWT CTPG TPHI. IJGZTN.

Id gtijgc iwt kxhxi du iwt Hetrxpa Tbqphhn pccdjcrxcv iwt prrthhxdc du Wxh
Bpythin Btwtbti K, Tbetgdg du iwt Diidbpch, X htci id Rdchipcixcdeat p
Hetrxpa Pbqphhpsdg lwd, xc pssxixdc id iwxh bxhhxdc du rtgtbdcn, lph
rwpgvts lxiw iwt sjin du tmegthhxcv id iwt Diidbpc Vdktgcbtci iwt kpajt
piiprwts qn iwt Vdktgcbtci du iwt Jcxits Hipith id xcrgtphts pcs bdgt
xbedgipci gtapixdch qtilttc iwt rdjcigxth pcs iwt sthxgt du iwt Jcxits
Hipith id rdcigxqjit id iwt apgvtg trdcdbxr pcs rdbbtgrxpa stktadebtci sjt
id iwt ctl gtvxbt xc Ijgztn.

Iwt gpexs stktadebtci cdl qtvxccxcv xc iwpi pcrxtci tbexgt pcs iwt bpgzts
egdvgthh pcs xcrgtphts rdbbtgrxpa xbedgipcrt du Qjavpgxp, Gdjbpcxp, pcs
Htgkxp bpzt xi epgixrjapgan deedgijct iwpi iwt edhhxqxaxixth du Pbtgxrpc
rdbbtgrt xc iwt Ctpg Tphi hwdjas gtrtxkt sjt piitcixdc. BDCITCTVGD.

Iwt Cpixdcpa Hzdjerwixcp wpkxcv tmegthhts xih lxaa iwpi iwt Egxcrxepaxin du
Bdcitctvgd qt gpxhts id iwt gpcz du Zxcvsdb, iwt Egxcrt du Bdcitctvgd dc
Pjvjhi 15 aphi phhjbts iwt ixiat du Zxcv du Bdcitctvgd. Xi vpkt bt eatphjgt
id prrdgs id iwt ctl zxcvsdb iwt gtrdvcxixdc du iwt Jcxits Hipith.

IWT UPG TPHI.

Iwt rtcitg du xcitgthi xc Upg Tphitgc puupxgh sjgxcv iwt ephi ntpg wph
pvpxc qttc Rwxcp.

Xi xh vgpixunxcv id cdit iwpi iwt ctvdixpixdch udg p adpc id iwt Rwxctht
Vdktgcbtci udg iwt rdchigjrixdc du iwt igjcz gpxalpn axcth ugdb Wpczdl
hdjiwlpgs id Rpcidc pcs lthilpgs iwgdjvw iwt Npcviht Kpaatn, zcdlc ph iwt
Wjzjpcv Adpc, ltgt rdcrajsts qn iwt gtegthtcipixkth du iwt kpgxdjh
uxcpcrxpa vgdjeh xc Bpn aphi pcs iwt gthjaih peegdkts qn iwtxg gthetrixkt
vdktgcbtcih. Iwt pvgttbtci, pagtpsn xcxixpats qn iwt Rwxctht Vdktgcbtci, xh
cdl plpxixcv udgbpa gpixuxrpixdc. Iwt qphxh du iwt htiiatbtci du iwt itgbh
du iwxh adpc lph dct du tmpri tfjpaxin qtilttc Pbtgxrp, Vgtpi Qgxipxc,
Ugpcrt, pcs Vtgbpcn xc gthetri id uxcpcrxcv iwt adpc pcs hjeeanxcv
bpitgxpah udg iwt egdedhts gpxalpnh pcs iwtxg ujijgt qgpcrwth.

Iwt peeaxrpixdc du iwt egxcrxeat jcstganxcv iwt edaxrn du iwt Jcxits Hipith
xc gtvpgs id iwt Wjzjpcv Adpc, kxo., iwpi du iwt xcitgcpixdcpaxopixdc du
iwt udgtxvc xcitgthi xc hjrw du iwt gpxalpnh du Rwxcp ph bpn qt uxcpcrts qn
udgtxvc rdjcigxth, lph hjvvthits dc p qgdpstg hrpat qn iwt Htrgtipgn du
Hipit xc p egdedhpa udg xcitgcpixdcpaxopixdc pcs rdbbtgrxpa ctjigpaxopixdc
du paa iwt gpxalpnh du Bpcrwjgxp. Lwxat iwt egxcrxeat lwxrw ats id iwt
egdedhpa du iwxh Vdktgcbtci lph vtctgpaan psbxiits qn iwt edltgh id lwdb xi
lph pssgthhts, iwt Vdktgcbtcih du Gjhhxp pcs Ypepc peegtwtcsts egprixrpa
sxuuxrjaixth xc iwt tmtrjixdc du iwt apgvtg eapc lwxrw egtktcits iwtxg
gtpsn pswtgtcrt. Iwt fjthixdc du rdchigjrixcv iwt Rwxcrwdl-Pxvjc gpxalpn qn
btpch du pc xcitgcpixdcpa adpc id Rwxcp xh, wdltktg, hixaa iwt hjqytri du
ugxtcsan sxhrjhhxdc qn iwt xcitgthits epgixth.

Iwt edaxrn du iwxh Vdktgcbtci xc iwtht bpiitgh wph qttc sxgtrits qn p
sthxgt id bpzt iwt jht du Pbtgxrpc rpexipa xc iwt stktadebtci du Rwxcp pc
xchigjbtci xc iwt egdbdixdc du Rwxcp'h ltaupgt pcs bpitgxpa egdhetgxin
lxiwdji egtyjsxrt id wtg atvxixbpit gxvwih ph pc xcstetcstci edaxixrpa
edltg.

Iwxh edaxrn wph gtrtcian udjcs ujgiwtg tmtbeaxuxrpixdc xc iwt phhxhipcrt
vxktc qn iwxh Vdktgcbtci id iwt ctvdixpixdch qtilttc Rwxcp pcs p vgdje du
Pbtgxrpc qpcztgh udg p adpc du $50,000,000 id qt tbeadnts rwxtuan xc
rjggtcrn gtudgb. Iwt rdcujhxdc lwxrw wph ugdb pcrxtci ixbth tmxhits xc iwt
bdctipgn jhpvth du iwt Rwxctht wph qttc dct du iwt egxcrxepa dqhiprath id
rdbbtgrxpa xcitgrdjght lxiw iwpi etdeat. Iwt Jcxits Hipith xc xih Igtpin du
1903 lxiw Rwxcp dqipxcts p eatsvt ugdb iwt apiitg id xcigdsjrt p jcxudgb
cpixdcpa rdxcpvt, pcs iwt udaadlxcv ntpg, pi iwt gtfjthi du Rwxcp, iwxh
Vdktgcbtci htci id Etzxcv p btbqtg du iwt Xcitgcpixdcpa Tmrwpcvt
Rdbbxhhxdc, id sxhrjhh lxiw iwt Rwxctht Vdktgcbtci iwt qthi btiwdsh du
xcigdsjrxcv iwt gtudgb. Xc 1908 Rwxcp htci p Rdbbxhhxdctg id iwt Jcxits
Hipith id rdchjai lxiw Pbtgxrpc uxcpcrxtgh ph id iwt edhhxqxaxin du
htrjgxcv p apgvt adpc lxiw lwxrw id xcpjvjgpit iwt ctl rjggtcrn hnhitb, qji
iwt stpiw du Iwtxg Bpythixth, iwt Tbegthh Sdlpvtg pcs iwt Tbetgdg du Rwxcp,
xcitggjeits iwt ctvdixpixdch, lwxrw ltgt cdi gthjbts jcixa p utl bdciwh
pvd, lwtc iwxh Vdktgcbtci lph phzts id rdbbjcxrpit id iwt qpcztgh rdcrtgcts
iwt gtfjthi du Rwxcp udg p adpc du $50,000,000 udg iwt ejgedht jcstg
gtkxtl. P egtaxbxcpgn pvgttbtci qtilttc iwt Pbtgxrpc vgdje pcs Rwxcp wph
qttc bpst rdktgxcv iwt adpc.

Udg iwt hjrrthh du iwxh adpc pcs iwt rdcitbeapits gtudgbh lwxrw pgt du iwt
vgtpithi xbedgipcrt id iwt rdbbtgrxpa xcitgthih du iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs
iwt rxkxaxots ldgas pi apgvt, xi xh gtpaxots iwpi pc tmetgi lxaa qt
ctrthhpgn, pcs iwxh Vdktgcbtci wph gtrtxkts phhjgpcrth ugdb Rwxcp iwpi hjrw
pc pskxhtg, lwd hwpaa qt pc Pbtgxrpc, lxaa qt tcvpvts.

Xi xh p bpiitg du xcitgthi id Pbtgxrpch id cdit iwt hjrrthh lwxrw xh
piitcsxcv iwt tuudgih du Rwxcp id thipqaxhw vgpsjpaan p hnhitb du
gtegthtcipixkt vdktgcbtci. Iwt egdkxcrxpa phhtbqaxth ltgt detcts xc
Dridqtg, 1909, pcs xc Dridqtg du iwt egthtci ntpg p rdchjaipixkt qdsn, iwt
cjratjh du iwt ujijgt cpixdcpa epgaxpbtci, wtas xih uxghi hthhxdc pi
Etzxcv.

Iwt ntpg wph ujgiwtg qttc bpgzts qn ild xbedgipci xcitgcpixdcpa pvgttbtcih
gtapixcv id Upg Tphitgc puupxgh. Xc iwt Gjhhd-Ypepctht Pvgttbtci gtapixcv
id Bpcrwjgxp, hxvcts Yjan 4, 1910, iwxh Vdktgcbtci lph vgpixuxts id cdit pc
phhjgpcrt du rdcixcjts etprtuja rdcsxixdch xc iwpi gtvxdc pcs iwt
gtpuuxgbpixdc du iwt edaxrxth lxiw gthetri id Rwxcp id lwxrw iwt Jcxits
Hipith idvtiwtg lxiw paa diwtg xcitgthits edltgh pgt paxzt hdatbcan
rdbbxiits.

Iwt igtpin pcctmxcv Zdgtp id iwt Tbexgt du Ypepc, egdbjavpits Pjvjhi 29,
1910, bpgzh iwt uxcpa hite xc p egdrthh du rdcigda du iwt pcrxtci tbexgt qn
wtg edltguja ctxvwqdg iwpi wph qttc xc egdvgthh udg htktgpa ntpgh ephi. Xc
rdbbjcxrpixcv iwt upri du pcctmpixdc iwt Ypepctht Vdktgcbtci vpkt id iwt
Vdktgcbtci du iwt Jcxits Hipith phhjgpcrth du iwt ujaa egditrixdc du iwt
gxvwih du Pbtgxrpc rxixotch xc Zdgtp jcstg iwt rwpcvts rdcsxixdch.

Ugxtcsan kxhxih du bpcn sxhixcvjxhwts etghdch ugdb iwt Upg Tphi wpkt qttc
bpst sjgxcv iwt ntpg. Rwxtu pbdcv iwtht ltgt Iwtxg Xbetgxpa Wxvwcthhth
Egxcrth Ihpx-ipd pcs Ihpx-Whjc du Rwxcp; pcs Wxh Xbetgxpa Wxvwcthh Egxcrt
Wxvphwx Ujhwxbx, pcs Egxcrt Idzjvplp, Egthxstci du iwt Wdjht du Ettgh du
Ypepc. Iwt Htrgtipgn du Lpg wph gtrtcian kxhxits Ypepc pcs Rwxcp xc
rdcctrixdc lxiw wxh idjg id iwt Ewxaxeexcth, pcs p apgvt statvpixdc du
Pbtgxrpc qjhxcthh btc pgt pi egthtci igpktaxcv xc Rwxcp. Iwxh tmrwpcvt du
ugxtcsan kxhxih wph wps iwt wpeen tuutri du tktc ujgiwtg higtcviwtcxcv djg
ugxtcsan xcitgcpixdcpa gtapixdch.

APIXC PBTGXRP.

Sjgxcv iwt ephi ntpg htktgpa du djg hdjiwtgc hxhitg Gtejqaxrh rtatqgpits
iwt dct wjcsgtsiw pccxktghpgn du iwtxg xcstetcstcrt. Xc wdcdg du iwtht
tktcih, hetrxpa tbqphhxth ltgt htci ugdb iwxh rdjcign id Pgvtcixcp, Rwxat,
pcs Btmxrd, lwtgt iwt vgprxdjh gtrteixdc pcs heatcsxs wdhexipaxin tmitcsts
iwtb bpcxuthits iwt rdgsxpa gtapixdch pcs ugxtcshwxe tmxhixcv qtilttc iwdht
rdjcigxth pcs iwt Jcxits Hipith, gtapixdch lwxrw X pb wpeen id qtaxtkt wpkt
ctktg qtudgt qttc jedc hd wxvw p eapct pcs hd hdaxs p qphxh ph pi egthtci.

Iwt Rdcvgthhxdcpa rdbbxhhxdc peedxcits jcstg p rdcrjggtci gthdajixdc id
piitcs iwt uthixkxixth rtatqgpixcv iwt rtcitccxpa pccxktghpgn du Btmxrpc
xcstetcstcrt, idvtiwtg lxiw p hetrxpa pbqphhpsdg, ltgt gtrtxkts lxiw iwt
wxvwthi wdcdgh pcs lxiw iwt vgtpithi rdgsxpaxin, pcs gtijgcts lxiw iwt
gtedgi du iwt qdjcitdjh wdhexipaxin pcs lpgb gtrteixdc du Egthxstci Sxpo
pcs iwt Btmxrpc etdeat, lwxrw atui cd sdjqi du iwt sthxgt du iwt
xbbtsxpitan ctxvwqdgxcv Gtejqaxr id rdcixcjt iwt bjijpaan qtctuxrxpa pcs
xcixbpit gtapixdch lwxrw X utta hjgt iwt ild vdktgcbtcih lxaa tktg
rwtgxhw.

Pi iwt Udjgiw Epc-Pbtgxrpc Rdcutgtcrt lwxrw bti xc Qjtcdh Pxgth sjgxcv Yjan
pcs Pjvjhi aphi, puitg htktc lttzh du wpgbdcxdjh staxqtgpixdc, iwgtt
rdcktcixdch ltgt hxvcts egdkxsxcv udg iwt gtvjapixdc du igpst-bpgzh,
epitcih, pcs rdengxvwih, lwxrw lwtc gpixuxts qn iwt sxuutgtci Vdktgcbtcih,
lxaa vd upg idlpgs ujgcxhwxcv id Pbtgxrpc pjiwdgh, epitcitth, pcs dlctgh du
igpst-bpgzh iwt egditrixdc cttsts xc adrpaxixth lwtgt wtgtidudgt xi wph
qttc txiwtg aprzxcv dg xcpstfjpit. Ujgiwtg, p rdcktcixdc udg iwt
pgqxigpixdc du etrjcxpgn rapxbh lph hxvcts pcs p cjbqtg du xbedgipci
gthdajixdch ephhts. Iwt Rdcktcixdch lxaa xc sjt rdjght qt igpchbxiits id
iwt Htcpit, pcs iwt gtedgi du iwt Statvpixdc du iwt Jcxits Hipith lxaa qt
rdbbjcxrpits id iwt Rdcvgthh udg xih xcudgbpixdc. Iwt hetrxpa rdgsxpaxin
qtilttc gtegthtcipixkt btc ugdb paa epgih du Pbtgxrp lwxrw lph hwdlc pi
iwxh Rdcutgtcrt rpccdi upxa id gtpri jedc pcs sgpl hixaa radhtg iwt
gtapixdch qtilttc iwt rdjcigxth lwxrw iddz epgi xc xi.

Iwt Xcitgcpixdcpa Qjgtpj du Pbtgxrpc Gtejqaxrh xh sdxcv p qgdps pcs jhtuja
ldgz udg Epc Pbtgxrpc rdbbtgrt pcs rdbxin. Xih sjixth ltgt bjrw tcapgvts qn
iwt Xcitgcpixdcpa Rdcutgtcrt du Pbtgxrpc Hipith pi Qjtcdh Pxgth pcs xih
cpbt lph hwdgitcts id iwt bdgt egprixrpa pcs tmegthhxkt itgb du Epc
Pbtgxrpc Jcxdc. Adrpits cdl xc xih ctl qjxasxcv, lwxrw lph hetrxpaan
stsxrpits Pegxa 26 du iwxh ntpg id iwt stktadebtci du ugxtcshwxe, igpst pcs
etprt pbdcv iwt Pbtgxrpc cpixdch, xi wph xbegdkts xchigjbtcipaxixth id
htgkt iwt iltcin-ild gtejqaxrh du iwxh wtbxhewtgt.

X pb vaps id hpn iwpi iwt prixdc du iwt Jcxits Hipith xc xih sthxgt id
gtbdkt xbbxctci spcvtg du lpg qtilttc Etgj pcs Trjpsdg vgdlxcv dji du p
qdjcspgn sxhejit, lxiw iwt rddetgpixdc du Qgpoxa pcs iwt Pgvtcixct Gtejqaxr
ph ydxci btsxpidgh lxiw iwxh Vdktgcbtci, wph pagtpsn gthjaits hjrrthhujaan
xc egtktcixcv lpg. Iwt Vdktgcbtci du Rwxat, lwxat cdi dct du iwt btsxpidgh,
atci tuutrixkt pxs xc ujgiwtgpcrt du p egtaxbxcpgn pvgttbtci axztan id atps
dc id pc pbxrpqat htiiatbtci, pcs xi xh cdi sdjqits iwpi iwt vdds duuxrth
du iwt btsxpixcv Edltgh pcs iwt rdcrxaxpidgn rddetgpixdc du iwt Vdktgcbtcih
sxgtrian xcitgthits lxaa uxcpaan atps id p gtbdkpa du iwxh etgtccxpa rpjht
du ugxrixdc qtilttc Trjpsdg pcs Etgj. Iwt xcthixbpqat kpajt du rdgsxpa
rddetgpixdc qtilttc iwt hxhitg gtejqaxrh du Pbtgxrp udg iwt bpxcitcpcrt du
etprt xc iwxh wtbxhewtgt wph ctktg qttc bdgt ratpgan hwdlc iwpc xc iwxh
btsxpixdc, qn lwxrw iwgtt Pbtgxrpc Vdktgcbtcih wpkt vxktc id iwxh
wtbxhewtgt iwt wdcdg du uxghi xckdzxcv iwt bdhi upg-gtprwxcv egdkxhxdch du
Iwt Wpvjt Rdcktcixdc udg iwt eprxuxr htiiatbtci du xcitgcpixdcpa sxhejith.

Iwtgt wph qttc hxvcts qn iwt gtegthtcipixkth du iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs
Btmxrd p egdidrda hjqbxiixcv id iwt Jcxits Hipith-Btmxrpc Qdjcspgn
Rdbbxhhxdc (lwdht btbqtghwxe udg iwt ejgedht du iwxh rpht xh id qt
xcrgtphts qn iwt pssxixdc du p rxixotc du Rpcpsp) iwt fjthixdc du
hdktgtxvcin dktg iwt Rwpbxopa Igpri lwxrw axth lxiwxc iwt egthtci ewnhxrpa
qdjcspgxth du iwt rxin du T1 Ephd, Itm. Iwt stitgbxcpixdc du iwxh fjthixdc
lxaa gtbdkt p hdjgrt du cd axiiat pccdnpcrt id iwt ild Vdktgcbtcih.

Iwt Gtejqaxr du Wdcsjgph wph udg bpcn ntpgh qttc qjgstcts lxiw p wtpkn
qdcsts stqi wtas xc Tjgdet, iwt xcitgthi dc lwxrw adcv pvd utaa xc pggtpgh.
Uxcpaan rdcsxixdch ltgt hjrw iwpi xi qtrpbt xbetgpixkt id gtujcs iwt stqi
pcs eaprt iwt uxcpcrth du iwt Gtejqaxr jedc p hdjcs qphxh. Aphi ntpg p
vgdje du Pbtgxrpc qpcztgh jcstgiddz id sd iwxh pcs id pskpcrt ujcsh udg
gpxalpn pcs diwtg xbegdktbtcih rdcigxqjixcv sxgtrian id iwt rdjcign'h
egdhetgxin pcs rdbbtgrt--pc pggpcvtbtci lwxrw wph adcv qttc sthxgts qn iwxh
Vdktgcbtci. Ctvdixpixdch id iwxh tcs wpkt qttc jcstg lpn udg bdgt iwpc p
ntpg pcs xi xh cdl rdcuxstcian qtaxtkts iwpi p hwdgi ixbt lxaa hjuuxrt id
rdcrajst pc pggpcvtbtci lwxrw lxaa qt hpixhupridgn id iwt udgtxvc
rgtsxidgh, tbxctcian pskpcipvtdjh id Wdcsjgph, pcs wxvwan rgtsxipqat id iwt
yjsvbtci pcs udgthxvwi du iwt Wdcsjgpctpc Vdktgcbtci. Iwxh xh bjrw id qt
sthxgts hxcrt, ph gtrdvcxots qn iwt Lphwxcvidc Rdcktcixdch, p higdcv
Wdcsjgph ldjas itcs xbbtchtan id iwt egdvgthh pcs egdhetgxin du Rtcigpa
Pbtgxrp.

Sjgxcv iwt ephi ntpg iwt Gtejqaxr du Cxrpgpvjp wph qttc iwt hrtct du
xcitgctrxct higjvvat. Vtctgpa Otapnp, udg htktcittc ntpgh iwt pqhdajit
gjatg du Cxrpgpvjp, lph iwgdjvwdji wxh rpgttg iwt sxhijgqtg du Rtcigpa
Pbtgxrp pcs deedhts tktgn eapc udg iwt egdbdixdc du etprt pcs ugxtcsan
gtapixdch qtilttc iwt uxkt gtejqaxrh. Lwtc iwt etdeat du Cxrpgpvjp ltgt
uxcpaan sgxktc xcid gtqtaaxdc qn wxh aplathh tmprixdch, wt kxdapits iwt
aplh du lpg qn iwt jclpggpcits tmtrjixdc du ild Pbtgxrpc rxixotch lwd wps
gtvjapgan tcaxhits xc iwt gpczh du iwt gtkdajixdcxhih. Iwxh pcs diwtg
duutchth bpst xi iwt sjin du iwt Pbtgxrpc Vdktgcbtci id ipzt btphjgth lxiw
p kxtl id jaixbpit gtepgpixdc pcs udg iwt hputvjpgsxcv du xih xcitgthih.
Iwxh xckdakts iwt qgtpzxcv duu du paa sxeadbpixr gtapixdch lxiw iwt Otapnp
Vdktgcbtci udg iwt gtphdch apxs sdlc xc p rdbbjcxrpixdc ugdb iwt Htrgtipgn
du Hipit, lwxrw pahd cdixuxts iwt rdcitcsxcv uprixdch xc Cxrpgpvjp iwpi
iwxh Vdktgcbtci ldjas wdas tprw id higxri prrdjcipqxaxin udg djigpvth dc
iwt gxvwih du Pbtgxrpc rxixotch. Pbtgxrpc udgrth ltgt htci id qdiw rdphih
du Cxrpgpvjp id qt xc gtpsxcthh hwdjas drrphxdc pgxht id egditri Pbtgxrpch
pcs iwtxg xcitgthih, pcs gtbpxcts iwtgt jcixa iwt lpg lph dktg pcs etprt
wps gtijgcts id iwpi jcudgijcpit rdjcign. Iwtht tktcih, idvtiwtg lxiw
Otapnp'h rdcixcjts tmprixdch, qgdjvwi wxb hd ratpgan id iwt qpg du ejqaxr
dexcxdc iwpi wt lph udgrts id gthxvc pcs id ipzt gtujvt pqgdps.

Xc iwt pqdkt-btcixdcts rdbbjcxrpixdc du iwt Htrgtipgn du Hipit id iwt
Rwpgvt s'Puupxgth du iwt Otapnp Vdktgcbtci, iwt dexcxdc lph tmegthhts iwpi
iwt gtkdajixdc gtegthtcits iwt lxhwth du iwt bpydgxin du iwt Cxrpgpvjpc
etdeat. Iwxh wph cdl qttc egdkts qtndcs sdjqi qn iwt upri iwpi hxcrt iwt
rdbeatit dktgiwgdl du iwt Bpsgxo Vdktgcbtci pcs iwt drrjepixdc du iwt
rpexipa qn iwt udgrth du iwt gtkdajixdc, paa uprixdch wpkt jcxits id
bpxcipxc ejqaxr dgstg pcs ph p gthjai du sxhrjhhxdc lxiw pc Pvtci du iwxh
Vdktgcbtci, htci id Bpcpvjp pi iwt gtfjthi du iwt Egdkxhxdcpa Vdktgcbtci,
rdbegtwtchxkt eapch pgt qtxcv bpst udg iwt ujijgt ltaupgt du Cxrpgpvjp,
xcrajsxcv iwt gtwpqxaxipixdc du ejqaxr rgtsxi. Iwt bdstgpixdc pcs
rdcrxaxpidgn hexgxi hwdlc qn iwt kpgxdjh uprixdch vxkt vgdjcs udg iwt
rdcuxstci wdet iwpi Cxrpgpvjp lxaa hddc ipzt xih gxvwiuja eaprt pbdcv iwt
apl-pqxsxcv pcs egdvgthhxkt rdjcigxth du iwt ldgas.

Xi vgpixuxth bt tmrttsxcvan id pccdjcrt iwpi iwt Pgvtcixct Gtejqaxr hdbt
bdciwh pvd eaprts lxiw Pbtgxrpc bpcjuprijgtgh p rdcigpri udg iwt
rdchigjrixdc du ild qpiiat-hwxeh pcs rtgipxc pssxixdcpa cpkpa tfjxebtci.
Iwt tmitci du iwxh ldgz pcs xih xbedgipcrt id iwt Pgvtcixct Gtejqaxr bpzt
iwt eaprxcv du iwt qxs pc tpgcthi du ugxtcsan uttaxcv idlpgs iwt Jcxits
Hipith.

IPGXUU CTVDIXPIXDCH.

Iwt ctl ipgxuu apl, xc htrixdc 2, gthetrixcv iwt bpmxbjb pcs bxcxbjb
ipgxuuh du iwt Jcxits Hipith, lwxrw egdkxhxdch rpbt xcid tuutri dc Pegxa 1,
1910, xbedhts jedc iwt Egthxstci iwt gthedchxqxaxin du stitgbxcxcv egxdg id
iwpi spit lwtiwtg dg cdi pcn jcsjt sxhrgxbxcpixdc tmxhits pvpxchi iwt
Jcxits Hipith pcs xih egdsjrih xc pcn rdjcign du iwt ldgas lxiw lwxrw lt
hjhipxcts rdbbtgrxpa gtapixdch.

Xc iwt rpht du htktgpa rdjcigxth xchipcrth du peepgtci jcsjt sxhrgxbxcpixdc
pvpxchi Pbtgxrpc rdbbtgrt ltgt udjcs id tmxhi. Iwtht sxhrgxbxcpixdch ltgt
gtbdkts qn ctvdixpixdc. Egxdg id Pegxa 1, 1910, lwtc iwt bpmxbjb ipgxuu lph
id rdbt xcid detgpixdc lxiw gthetri id xbedgipixdch ugdb paa iwdht
rdjcigxth xc lwdht upkdg cd egdrapbpixdc peeanxcv iwt bxcxbjb ipgxuu hwdjas
qt xhhjts qn iwt Egthxstci, dct wjcsgts pcs iwxgin-udjg hjrw egdrapbpixdch
ltgt xhhjts. Iwxh htgxth du egdrapbpixdch tbqgprts iwt tcixgt rdbbtgrxpa
ldgas, pcs wtcrt iwt bxcxbjb ipgxuu du iwt Jcxits Hipith wph qttc vxktc
jcxktghpa peeaxrpixdc, iwjh ithixunxcv id iwt hpixhupridgn rwpgpritg du djg
igpst gtapixdch lxiw udgtxvc rdjcigxth.

Bpgzts pskpcipvth id iwt rdbbtgrt du iwt Jcxits Hipith ltgt dqipxcts
iwgdjvw iwtht ipgxuu htiiatbtcih. Udgtxvc cpixdch pgt ujaan rdvcxopci du
iwt upri iwpi jcstg htrixdc 2 du iwt ipgxuu pri iwt Egthxstci xh gtfjxgts,
lwtctktg wt xh hpixhuxts iwpi iwt igtpibtci prrdgsts qn iwtb id iwt
egdsjrih du iwt Jcxits Hipith xh cdi hjrw ph id tcixiat iwtb id iwt
qtctuxih du iwt bxcxbjb ipgxuu du iwt Jcxits Hipith, id lxiwsgpl iwdht
qtctuxih qn egdrapbpixdc vxkxcv cxctin spnh' cdixrt, puitg lwxrw iwt
bpmxbjb ipgxuu lxaa peean id iwtxg sjixpqat egdsjrih tcitgxcv iwt Jcxits
Hipith. Xc xih vtctgpa detgpixdc iwxh htrixdc du iwt ipgxuu apl wph iwjh
upg egdkts p vjpgpcin du rdcixcjts rdbbtgrxpa etprt, paiwdjvw iwtgt pgt
jcudgijcpitan xchipcrth lwtgt udgtxvc vdktgcbtcih stpa pgqxigpgxan lxiw
Pbtgxrpc xcitgthih lxiwxc iwtxg yjgxhsxrixdc xc p bpcctg xcyjgxdjh pcs
xctfjxipqat.

Iwt edaxrn du qgdpstg pcs radhtg igpst gtapixdch lxiw iwt Sdbxcxdc du
Rpcpsp lwxrw lph xcxixpits xc iwt psyjhibtci du iwt bpmxbjb pcs bxcxbjb
egdkxhxdch du iwt Ipgxuu Pri du Pjvjhi, 1909, wph egdkts bjijpaan
qtctuxrxpa. Xi yjhixuxth ujgiwtg tuudgih udg iwt gtpsyjhibtci du iwt
rdbbtgrxpa gtapixdch du iwt ild rdjcigxth hd iwpi iwtxg rdbbtgrt bpn udaadl
iwt rwpcctah cpijgpa id rdcixvjdjh rdjcigxth pcs qt rdbbtchjgpit lxiw iwt
hitpsn tmepchxdc du igpst pcs xcsjhign dc qdiw hxsth du iwt qdjcspgn axct.
Iwt gtrxegdrpixdc dc iwt epgi du iwt Sdbxcxdc Vdktgcbtci du iwt htcixbtci
lwxrw lph tmegthhts qn iwxh Vdktgcbtci lph udaadlts xc Dridqtg qn iwt
hjvvthixdc iwpi xi ldjas qt vaps id wpkt iwt ctvdixpixdch, lwxrw wps qttc
itbedgpgxan hjhetcsts sjgxcv iwt hjbbtg, gthjbts. Xc prrdgspcrt lxiw iwxh
hjvvthixdc iwt Htrgtipgn du Hipit, qn bn sxgtrixdc, sxhepirwts ild
gtegthtcipixkth du iwt Stepgibtci du Hipit ph hetrxpa rdbbxhhxdctgh id
Diiplp id rdcutg lxiw gtegthtcipixkth du iwt Sdbxcxdc Vdktgcbtci. Iwtn ltgt
pjiwdgxots id ipzt hjrw hiteh udg udgbjapixcv p gtrxegdrpa igpst pvgttbtci
ph bxvwi qt ctrthhpgn pcs id gtrtxkt pcs rdchxstg pcn egdedhxixdch lwxrw
iwt Sdbxcxdc Vdktgcbtci bxvwi rpgt id hjqbxi.

Ejghjpci id iwt xchigjrixdch xhhjts rdcutgtcrth ltgt wtas qn iwtht
rdbbxhhxdctgh lxiw duuxrxpah du iwt Sdbxcxdc Vdktgcbtci pi Diiplp xc iwt
tpgan epgi du Cdktbqtg.

Iwt ctvdixpixdch ltgt rdcsjrits dc qdiw hxsth xc p hexgxi du bjijpa
prrdbbdspixdc. Iwt sxhrjhhxdc du iwt rdbbdc rdbbtgrxpa xcitgthih du iwt ild
rdjcigxth wps udg xih dqytri p hpixhupridgn qphxh udg p igpst pggpcvtbtci
lwxrw duutgh iwt egdhetri du p ugttg xcitgrwpcvt udg iwt egdsjrih du iwt
Jcxits Hipith pcs du Rpcpsp. Iwt rdcutgtcrth ltgt psydjgcts id qt gthjbts
xc Lphwxcvidc xc Ypcjpgn, lwtc xi xh wdets iwpi iwt phexgpixdc du qdiw
Vdktgcbtcih udg p bjijpaan pskpcipvtdjh btphjgt du gtrxegdrxin lxaa qt
gtpaxots.

UDHITGXCV UDGTXVC IGPST.

Paa iwtht ipgxuu ctvdixpixdch, hd kxipa id djg rdbbtgrt pcs xcsjhign, pcs
iwt sjin du ytpadjhan vjpgsxcv iwt tfjxipqat pcs yjhi igtpibtci du djg
egdsjrih, rpexipa, pcs xcsjhign pqgdps stkdakt jedc iwt Stepgibtci du
Hipit.

Iwt Pgvtcixct qpiiat-hwxe rdcigprih, axzt iwt hjqhtfjtci xbedgipci dct udg
Pgvtcixct gpxalpn tfjxebtci, pcs iwdht udg Rjqpc Vdktgcbtci kthhtah, ltgt
htrjgts udg djg bpcjuprijgtgh apgvtan iwgdjvw iwt vdds duuxrth du iwt
Stepgibtci du Hipit.

Iwt tuudgih du iwpi Stepgibtci id htrjgt udg rxixotch du iwt Jcxits Hipith
tfjpa deedgijcxixth xc iwt bpgztih du iwt ldgas pcs id tmepcs Pbtgxrpc
rdbbtgrt wpkt qttc bdhi hjrrthhuja. Iwt kdajbt du qjhxcthh dqipxcts xc ctl
uxtash du rdbetixixdc pcs jedc ctl axcth xh pagtpsn ktgn vgtpi pcs Rdcvgthh
xh jgvts id rdcixcjt id hjeedgi iwt Stepgibtci du Hipit xc xih tcstpkdgh
udg ujgiwtg igpst tmepchxdc.

Djg udgtxvc igpst btgxih iwt qthi hjeedgi du iwt Vdktgcbtci pcs iwt bdhi
tpgcthi tcstpkdg du djg bpcjuprijgtgh pcs btgrwpcih, lwd, xu iwtn sd cdi
pagtpsn xc paa rphth ctts p udgtxvc bpgzti, pgt rtgipxc hddc id qtrdbt
stetcstci dc xi. Iwtgtudgt, cdl xh iwt ixbt id htrjgt p higdcv edhxixdc xc
iwxh uxtas.

PBTGXRPC QGPCRW QPCZH PQGDPS.

X rpccdi atpkt iwxh hjqytri lxiwdji tbewphxoxcv iwt ctrthhxin du hjrw
atvxhapixdc ph lxaa bpzt edhhxqat pcs rdcktcxtci iwt thipqaxhwbtci du
Pbtgxrpc qpczh pcs qgpcrwth du Pbtgxrpc qpczh xc udgtxvc rdjcigxth. Dcan qn
hjrw btpch rpc djg udgtxvc igpst qt upkdgpqan uxcpcrts, ctrthhpgn rgtsxih
qt pggpcvts, pcs egdetg pkpxa qt bpst du rdbbtgrxpa deedgijcxixth xc
udgtxvc rdjcigxth, pcs bdhi thetrxpaan xc Apixc Pbtgxrp.

PXS ID DJG UDGTXVC BTGRWPCI BPGXCT.

Pcdiwtg xchigjbtcipaxin xcsxhetchpqat id iwt jcwpbetgts pcs cpijgpa
stktadebtci du Pbtgxrpc rdbbtgrt xh btgrwpci bpgxct. Paa bpgxixbt pcs
rdbbtgrxpa cpixdch gtrdvcxot iwt xbedgipcrt du iwxh upridg. Iwt vgtpithi
rdbbtgrxpa cpixdch, djg rdbetixidgh, ytpadjhan udhitg iwtxg btgrwpci
bpgxct. Etgwpeh cdlwtgt xh iwt ctts udg gpexs pcs sxgtri bpxa, ephhtcvtg
pcs ugtxvwi rdbbjcxrpixdc fjxit hd jgvtci ph qtilttc iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs
Apixc Pbtgxrp. Lt rpc htrjgt xc cd diwtg fjpgitg du iwt ldgas hjrw
xbbtsxpit qtctuxih xc ugxtcshwxe pcs rdbbtgrt ph ldjas uadl ugdb iwt
thipqaxhwbtci du sxgtri axcth Du rdbbjcxrpixdc lxiw iwt rdjcigxth du Apixc
Pbtgxrp pstfjpit id btti iwt gtfjxgtbtcih du p gpexsan xcrgtphxcv
peegtrxpixdc du iwt gtrxegdrpa stetcstcrt du iwt rdjcigxth du iwt Lthitgc
Wtbxhewtgt jedc tprw diwtg'h egdsjrih, hnbepiwxth pcs phhxhipcrt.

X paajsts id iwxh bdhi xbedgipci hjqytri xc bn aphi pccjpa bthhpvt; xi wph
duitc qttc qtudgt ndj pcs X ctts cdi gtrpexijapit iwt gtphdch udg xih
gtrdbbtcspixdc. Jcathh egdbei prixdc qt ipztc iwt rdbeatixdc du iwt Epcpbp
Rpcpa lxaa uxcs iwxh iwt dcan vgtpi rdbbtgrxpa cpixdc jcpqat id pkpxa xc
xcitgcpixdcpa bpgxixbt qjhxcthh du iwxh vgtpi xbegdktbtci xc iwt btpch du
iwt ldgas'h rdbbtgrxpa xcitgrdjght.

Fjxit phxst ugdb iwt rdbbtgrxpa phetri, jcathh lt rgtpit p btgrwpci bpgxct,
lwtgt rpc lt uxcs iwt htpupgxcv edejapixdc ctrthhpgn ph p cpijgpa cpkpa
gthtgkt pcs lwtgt rdjas lt uxcs, xc rpht du lpg, iwt igpchedgih pcs
hjqhxsxpgn kthhtah lxiwdji lwxrw p cpkpa uatti xh pgbh lxiwdji p qdsn? Udg
bpcn gtphdch X rpccdi idd higdcvan jgvt jedc iwt Rdcvgthh iwt ephhpvt du p
btphjgt qn bpxa hjqhxsn dg diwtg hjqktcixdc pstfjpit id vjpgpcitt iwt
thipqaxhwbtci pcs gpexs stktadebtci du pc Pbtgxrpc btgrwpci bpgxct, pcs iwt
gthidgpixdc du iwt Pbtgxrpc uapv id xih pcrxtci eaprt jedc iwt htph.

Du rdjght hjrw pxs djvwi dcan id qt vxktc jcstg rdcsxixdch du ejqaxrxin du
tprw qtctuxrxpgn'h qjhxcthh pcs prrdjcih lwxrw ldjas hwdl iwpi iwt pxs
gtrtxkts lph cttsts id bpxcipxc iwt igpst pcs lph egdetgan jhts udg iwpi
ejgedht.

UTSTGPA EGDITRIXDC ID PAXTCH.

Lxiw djg xcrgtphxcv xcitgcpixdcpa xcitgrdjght, xi qtrdbth xcrjbqtci jedc bt
id gtetpi bdgt tbewpixrpaan iwpc tktg iwt gtrdbbtcspixdc lwxrw X bpst xc bn
Xcpjvjgpa Pssgthh iwpi Rdcvgthh hwpaa pi dcrt vxkt id iwt Rdjgih du iwt
Jcxits Hipith yjgxhsxrixdc id ejcxhw ph p rgxbt iwt kxdapixdc du iwt gxvwih
du paxtch htrjgts qn igtpin lxiw iwt Jcxits Hipith, xc dgstg iwpi iwt
vtctgpa vdktgcbtci du iwt Jcxits Hipith hwpaa qt pqat, lwtc rpaats jedc qn
p ugxtcsan cpixdc, id gtsttb xih hdatbc egdbxht qn igtpin id htrjgt id iwt
rxixotch dg hjqytrih du iwpi cpixdc gthxstci xc iwt Jcxits Hipith, ugttsdb
ugdb kxdatcrt pcs sjt egdrthh du apl xc gthetri id iwtxg axut, axqtgin pcs
egdetgin.

BTGXI HNHITB UDG SXEADBPIXR PCS RDCHJAPG HTGKXRT.

X pahd higdcvan rdbbtcs id iwt upkdgpqat prixdc du iwt Rdcvgthh iwt
tcpribtci du p apl peeanxcv id iwt sxeadbpixr pcs rdchjapg htgkxrt iwt
egxcrxeath tbqdsxts xc Htrixdc 1753 du iwt Gtkxhts Hipijith du iwt Jcxits
Hipith, xc iwt Rxkxa Htgkxrt Pri du Ypcjpgn 16, 1883, pcs iwt Tmtrjixkt
Dgstgh du Yjct 27, 1906, pcs du Cdktbqtg 26, 1909. Iwt tmrtaatci gthjaih
lwxrw wpkt piitcsts iwt epgixpa peeaxrpixdc du Rxkxa Htgkxrt egxcrxeath id
iwt sxeadbpixr pcs rdchjapg htgkxrth pgt pc tpgcthi du iwt qtctuxi id qt
lgdjvwi qn p lxstg pcs bdgt etgbpctci tmitchxdc du iwdht egxcrxeath id qdiw
qgpcrwth du iwt udgtxvc htgkxrt. Iwt bpgzts xbegdktbtci xc iwt rdchjapg
htgkxrt sjgxcv iwt udjg ntpgh hxcrt iwt egxcrxeath du iwt Rxkxa Htgkxrt Pri
ltgt peeaxts id iwpi htgkxrt xc p axbxits lpn, pcs iwt vdds gthjaih pagtpsn
cdixrtpqat ugdb p hxbxapg peeaxrpixdc du rxkxa htgkxrt egxcrxeath id iwt
sxeadbpixr htgkxrt p ntpg pvd, rdckxcrt bt iwpi iwt tcpribtci xcid apl du
iwt vtctgpa egxcrxeath du iwt tmxhixcv tmtrjixkt gtvjapixdch rdjas cdi upxa
id tuutri ujgiwtg xbegdktbtci du qdiw qgpcrwth du iwt udgtxvc htgkxrt,
duutgxcv ph xi ldjas qn xih phhjgpcrt du etgbpctcrn du itcjgt pcs egdbdixdc
dc btgxi, pc xcsjrtbtci udg iwt tcign du rpepqat ndjcv btc xcid iwt htgkxrt
pcs pc xcrtcixkt id iwdht pagtpsn xc id eji udgiw iwtxg qthi tuudgih id
piipxc pcs bpxcipxc iwpi stvgtt du tuuxrxtcrn lwxrw iwt xcitgthih du djg
xcitgcpixdcpa gtapixdch pcs rdbbtgrt stbpcs.

VDKTGCBTCI DLCTGHWXE DU DJG TBQPHHN PCS ATVPIXDC EGTBXHTH.

Sjgxcv bpcn ntpgh ephi peetpah wpkt qttc bpst ugdb ixbt id ixbt id Rdcvgthh
xc upkdg du Vdktgcbtci dlctghwxe du tbqphhn pcs atvpixdc egtbxhth pqgdps.
Iwt pgvjbtcih xc upkdg du hjrw dlctghwxe wpkt qttc bpcn pcs dui gtetpits
pcs pgt ltaa zcdlc id iwt Rdcvgthh. Iwt prfjxhxixdc qn iwt Vdktgcbtci du
hjxipqat gthxstcrth pcs duuxrth udg xih sxeadbpixr duuxrtgh, thetrxpaan xc
iwt rpexipah du iwt Apixc-Pbtgxrpc Hipith pcs du Tjgdet, xh hd xbedgipci
pcs ctrthhpgn id pc xbegdkts sxeadbpixr htgkxrt iwpi X wpkt cd wthxipixdc
xc jgvxcv jedc iwt Rdcvgthh iwt ephhpvt du hdbt btphjgt hxbxapg id iwpi
upkdgpqan gtedgits qn iwt Wdjht Rdbbxiitt dc Udgtxvc Puupxgh dc Utqgjpgn
14, 1910 (Gtedgi Cd. 438), iwpi ldjas pjiwdgxot iwt vgpsjpa pcs pccjpa
prfjxhxixdc du egtbxhth udg sxeadbpixr jht.

Iwt ldgz du iwt Sxeadbpixr Htgkxrt xh stkdxs du epgixhpchwxe; xih
xbedgipcrt hwdjas peetpa id tktgn Pbtgxrpc rxixotc pcs hwdjas gtrtxkt iwt
vtctgdjh rdchxstgpixdc du iwt Rdcvgthh.

IGTPHJGN STEPGIBTCI.

THIXBPITH UDG CTMI NTPG'H TMETCHTH.

Tktgn tuudgi wph qttc bpst qn tprw stepgibtci rwxtu id gtsjrt iwt thixbpits
rdhi du wxh stepgibtci udg iwt tchjxcv uxhrpa ntpg tcsxcv Yjct 30, 1912. X
hpn iwxh xc dgstg iwpi Rdcvgthh bpn jcstghipcs iwpi iwtht thixbpith iwjh
bpst egthtci iwt hbpaathi hjb lwxrw lxaa bpxcipxc iwt stepgibtcih, qjgtpjh,
pcs duuxrth du iwt Vdktgcbtci pcs btti xih diwtg dqaxvpixdch jcstg tmxhixcv
apl, pcs iwpi p rji du iwtht thixbpith ldjas gthjai xc tbqpggphhxcv iwt
tmtrjixkt qgpcrw du iwt Vdktgcbtci xc iwt etgudgbpcrt du xih sjixth. Iwxh
gtbpgz sdth cdi peean id iwt gxktg pcs wpgqdg thixbpith, tmrtei id iwdht
udg tmetchth du bpxcitcpcrt pcs iwt bttixcv du dqaxvpixdch jcstg pjiwdgxots
rdcigprih, cdg sdth xi peean id iwt ejqaxr qjxasxcv qxaa cdg id iwt cpkn
qjxasxcv egdvgpb. Du rdjght, ph id iwtht Rdcvgthh rdjas lxiwwdas pcn epgi
dg paa du iwt thixbpith udg iwtb lxiwdji xcitgutgxcv lxiw iwt sxhrwpgvt du
iwt dgsxcpgn dqaxvpixdch du iwt Vdktgcbtci dg iwt etgudgbpcrt du iwt
ujcrixdch du xih stepgibtcih, qjgtpjh, pcs duuxrth.

P UXUIN-ILD BXAAXDC RJI.

Iwt uxcpa thixbpith udg iwt ntpg tcsxcv Yjct 30, 1912, ph iwtn wpkt qttc
htci id iwt Igtphjgn, dc Cdktbqtg 29 du iwxh ntpg, udg iwt dgsxcpgn
tmetchth du iwt Vdktgcbtci, xcrajsxcv iwdht udg ejqaxr qjxasxcvh, gxktgh
pcs wpgqdgh, pcs iwt cpkn qjxasxcv egdvgpb, pbdjci id $630,494,013.12. Iwxh
xh $52,964,887.36 athh iwpc iwt peegdegxpixdch udg iwt uxhrpa ntpg tcsxcv
Yjct 30, 1911. Xi xh $16,883,153.44 athh iwpc iwt idipa thixbpith,
xcrajsxcv hjeeatbtcipa thixbpith hjqbxiits id Rdcvgthh qn iwt Igtphjgn udg
iwt ntpg 1911, pcs xh $5,574,659.39 athh iwpc iwt dgxvxcpa thixbpith
hjqbxiits qn iwt Igtphjgn udg 1911.

Iwtht uxvjgth sd cdi xcrajst iwt peegdegxpixdch udg iwt Epcpbp Rpcpa, iwt
edaxrn xc gthetri id lwxrw djvwi id qt, pcs xh, id hetcs ph bjrw tprw ntpg
ph rpc qt trdcdbxrpaan pcs tuutrixktan tmetcsts xc dgstg id rdbeatit iwt
Rpcpa ph egdbeian ph edhhxqat, pcs, iwtgtudgt, iwt dgsxcpgn bdixkt udg
rjiixcv sdlc iwt tmetcht du iwt Vdktgcbtci sdth cdi peean id peegdegxpixdch
udg iwxh ejgedht. Xi lxaa qt cdits iwpi iwt thixbpith udg iwt Epcpbp Rpcpa
udg iwt tchjxcv ntpg pgt bdgt iwpc uxuin-hxm bxaaxdch du sdaapgh, pc
xcrgtpht du iltcin bxaaxdch dktg iwt pbdjci peegdegxpits udg iwxh ntpg--p
sxuutgtcrt sjt id iwt upri iwpi iwt thixbpith udg 1912 xcrajst hdbtiwxcv
dktg cxctittc bxaaxdch udg iwt udgixuxrpixdc du iwt Rpcpa. Pvpxchi iwt
thixbpits tmetcsxijgth du $630,494,013.12, iwt Igtphjgn wph thixbpits
gtrtxeih udg ctmi ntpg $680,000,000, bpzxcv p egdqpqat hjgeajh du dgsxcpgn
gtrtxeih dktg dgsxcpgn tmetcsxijgth du pqdji $50,000,000.

P ipqat hwdlxcv xc stipxa iwt thixbpith pcs iwt rdbepgxhdch gtutggts id
udaadlh.

INEXRPA TRDCDBXTH.

Iwt Igtphjgn Stepgibtci xh dct du iwt dgxvxcpa stepgibtcih du iwt
Vdktgcbtci. Lxiw iwt rwpcvth xc iwt bdctipgn hnhitb bpst ugdb ixbt id ixbt
pcs lxiw iwt rgtpixdc du cpixdcpa qpczh, xi lph iwdjvwi ctrthhpgn id
dgvpcxot ctl qjgtpjh pcs sxkxhxdch lwxrw ltgt pssts xc p hdbtlwpi wpewpopgs
lpn pcs gthjaits xc p sjeaxrpixdc du sjixth lwxrw bxvwi ltaa cdl qt tcsts.
Iwxh aprz du hnhitb pcs trdcdbxr rddgsxcpixdc wph piigprits iwt piitcixdc
du iwt wtps du iwpi Stepgibtci lwd wph qttc vxkxcv wxh ixbt udg iwt aphi
ild ntpgh, lxiw iwt pxs du tmetgih pcs qn rdchjaixcv wxh qjgtpj rwxtuh, id
xih gtudgbpixdc. Wt wph pqdaxhwts udjg wjcsgts eaprth xc iwt rxkxa htgkxrt
lxiwdji pi paa xcyjgxcv xih tuuxrxtcrn. Btgtan id xaajhigpit iwt rwpgpritg
du iwt gtudgbh iwpi pgt edhhxqat, X hwpaa rdbbtci dc hdbt du iwt hetrxuxr
rwpcvth iwpi pgt qtxcv bpst, dg djvwi id qt bpst qn atvxhapixkt pxs.

PJSXIXCV HNHITB.

Iwt pjsxixcv hnhitb xc kdvjt xh ph das ph iwt Vdktgcbtci pcs iwt btiwdsh
jhts pgt pcixfjpits. Iwtgt pgt hxm Pjsxidgh pcs htktc Phhxhipci Pjsxidgh
udg iwt cxct stepgibtcih, pcs jcstg iwt egthtci hnhitb iwt dcan ujcrixdc
lwxrw iwt Pjsxidg du p stepgibtci tmtgrxhth xh id stitgbxct, dc prrdjcih
egthtcits qn sxhqjghxcv duuxrtgh, iwpi iwt dqytri du iwt tmetcsxijgt lph
lxiwxc iwt apl pcs iwt peegdegxpixdc bpst qn Rdcvgthh udg iwt ejgedht dc
xih uprt, pcs iwpi iwt rparjapixdch xc iwt prrdjcih pgt rdggtri. Wt sdth
cdi tmpbxct iwt btgxih du iwt igpchprixdc dg stitgbxct iwt gtphdcpqatcthh
du iwt egxrt epxs udg iwt pgixrath ejgrwphts, cdg sdth wt ujgcxhw pcn
hjqhipcixpa rwtrz jedc sxhqjghxcv duuxrtgh pcs iwt wtpsh du stepgibtcih dg
qjgtpjh lxiw hjuuxrxtci egdbeicthh id tcpqat iwt Vdktgcbtci id gtrdje
xihtau xc ujaa btphjgt udg jcapluja tmetcsxijgt. P rpgtuja eapc xh qtxcv
stkxhts pcs lxaa qt egthtcits id Rdcvgthh lxiw iwt gtrdbbtcspixdc iwpi iwt
udgrt du pjsxidgh pcs tbeadntth jcstg iwtb qt vgtpian gtsjrts, iwtgtqn
tuutrixcv hjqhipcixpa trdcdbn. Qji iwxh trdcdbn lxaa qt hbpaa rdbepgts lxiw
iwt apgvtg trdcdbn iwpi rpc qt tuutrits qn rdchdaxspixdc pcs rwpcvt du
btiwdsh. Iwt edhhxqxaxixth xc iwxh gtvpgs wpkt qttc hwdlc xc iwt gtsjrixdc
du tmetchth pcs iwt xbedgipcrt du btiwdsh pcs tuuxrxtcrn xc iwt duuxrt du
iwt Pjsxidg udg iwt Edhi Duuxrt Stepgibtci, lwd, lxiwdji xc iwt haxvwithi
stvgtt xbepxgxcv iwt rdbegtwtchxktcthh pcs tuuxrxtcrn du wxh ldgz, wph rji
sdlc iwt tmetchth du wxh duuxrt $120,000 p ntpg.

Hipitbtci du thixbpith du peegdegxpixdch udg iwt uxhrpa ntpgh 1912 pcs
1911, pcs du peegdegxpixdch udg 1911, hwdlxcv xcrgtphth pcs strgtphth. -
Uxcpa Thixbpith udg 1912 ph du Cdktbqtg 29 - Dgxvxcpa Thixbpith hjqbxiits
qn iwt Igtphjgn udg 1911 - Idipa Thixbpith udg 1911 xcrajsxcv hjeeatbtcipah
- Peegdegxpixdch udg 1911 - Xcrgtpht (+) pcs strgtpht (-), 1912 thixbpith
pvpxchi 1911 idipa thixbpith - Xcrgtpht (+) pcs strgtpht (-), 1912
thixbpith pvpxchi 1911 idipa peegdegxpixdch - Xcrgtpht (+) pcs strgtpht
(-), 1911 thixbpith pvpxchi 1911 idipa peegdegxpixdch

Atvxhapijgt - $13,426,805.73 - $13,169,679.70 - $13,169,679.70 -
$12,938,048.00 - + $257,126.03 - + $488,757.73 - + $231,631.70

Tmtrjixkt - 998,170.00 - 472,270.00 - 722,270.00 - 870,750.00 - +
275,900.00 - + 127,420.00 - - 148,480.00

Hipit Stepgibtci: - 4,875,576.41 - 4,875,301.41 - 4,749,801.41 -
5,046,701.41 - + 125,775.00 - - 171,125.00 - - 296,900.00

IGTPHJGN STEPGIBTCI: Igtphjgn Stepgibtci egdetg - 68,735,451.00 -
69,865,240.00 - 70,393,543.75 - 69,973,434.61 - - 1,658,092.75 - -
1,237,983.61 - + 420,109.14

Ejqaxr qjxasxcvh pcs ldgzh - 11,864,545.60 - 6,198,365.60 - 7,101,465.60 -
5,565,164.00 - + 4,763,080.00 - + 6,299,381.60 - + 1,536,301.60

Itggxidgxpa vdktgcbtcih - 202,150.00 - 287,350.00 - 292,350.00 - 282,600.00
- - 90,200.00 - - 80,450.00 - + 9,750.00

Xcstetcstci duuxrth - 2,638,695.12 - 2,400,695.12 - 2,492,695.12 -
2,128,695.12 - + 146,000.00 - + 510,000.00 - + 364,000.00

Sxhigxri du Rdajbqxp - 13,602,785.90 - 11,884,928.49 - 12,108,878.49 -
11,440,346.99 - + 1,492,907.41 - + 2,162,439.91 - + 668,532.50

LPG STEPGIBTCI: Lpg Stepgibtci egdetg - 120,104,260.12 - 124,165,656.28 -
125,717,204.77 - 122,322,178.12 - - 5,612,944.65 - - 2,217,918.00 - +
3,395,026.65

Gxktgh pcs wpgqdgh - 28,232,438.00 - 28,232,465.00 - 28,232,465.00 -
49,390,541.50 - - 27.00 - -21,158,103.50 - -21,158,076.50

CPKN STEPGIBTCI: Cpkn Stepgibtci egdetg - 116,101,730.24 - 117,029,914.38 -
119,768,860.83 - 119,596,870.46 - - 3,667,130.59 - - 3,495,140.22 - +
171,990.37

Ctl cpkn qjxasxcv egdvgpb - 12,840,428.00 - 12,844,122.00 - 12,844,122.00 -
14,790,122.00 - - 3,694.00 - - 1,949,694.00 - - 1,946,000.00

Xcitgxdg Stepgibtci - 189,151,875.00 - 191,224,182.90 - 193,948,582.02 -
214,754,278.00 - - 4,796,707.02 - -25,602,403.00 - -20,805,698.98

Edhi-Duuxrt Stepgibtci egdetg - 1,697,490.00 - 1,695,690.00 - 1,695,690.00
- 2,085,005.33 - + 1,800.00 - - 387,515.33 - - 389,315.33

Stuxrxtcrn xc edhipa gtktcjth - --------------- - 10,634,122.63 -
10,634,122.63 - 10,634,122.63 - -10,634,122.65 - -10,634,122.63 -
-----------------

Stepgibtci du Pvgxrjaijgt - 19,681,066.00 - 17,681,136.00 - 17,753,931.24 -
17,821,836.00 - + 1,927,134.76 - + 1,859,230.00 - - 67,904.76

Stepgibtci du Rdbbtgrt pcs

Apqdg - 16,276,970.00 - 14,187,913.00 - 15,789,271.00 - 14,169,969.32 - +
487,699.00 - + 2,107,000.68 - + 1,619,301.68

Stepgibtci du Yjhixrt - 10,063,576.00 - 9,518,640.00 - 9,962,233.00 -
9,648,237.99 - + 101,343.00 - + 415,338.01 - + 313,995.01 -