XIZB Q

Bw bpm Amvibm ivl Pwcam wn Zmxzmamvbibqdma:

Bpm nwzmqov zmtibqwva wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma ikbcittg ivl xwbmvbqittg innmkb
bpm abibm wn bpm Cvqwv bw i lmozmm vwb eqlmtg zmitqhml ivl pizltg aczxiaaml
jg ivg wbpmz nikbwz qv bpm emtnizm wn bpm epwtm Vibqwv. Bpm xwaqbqwv wn bpm
Cvqbml Abibma qv bpm uwzit, qvbmttmkbcit, ivl uibmzqit zmtibqwva wn bpm
niuqtg wn vibqwva apwctl jm i uibbmz wn dqbit qvbmzmab bw mdmzg xibzqwbqk
kqbqhmv. Bpm vibqwvit xzwaxmzqbg ivl xwemz quxwam cxwv ca lcbqma epqkp em
kiv vwb apqzs qn em izm bw jm bzcm bw wcz qlmita. Bpm bzmumvlwca ozwebp wn
bpm mfxwzb bzilm wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma pia itzmilg uilm bpib bzilm i dmzg
zmit nikbwz qv bpm qvlcabzqit ivl kwuumzkqit xzwaxmzqbg wn bpm kwcvbzg.
Eqbp bpm lmdmtwxumvb wn wcz qvlcabzqma bpm nwzmqov kwuumzkm wn bpm Cvqbml
Abibma ucab zixqltg jmkwum i abqtt uwzm maamvbqit nikbwz qv qba mkwvwuqk
emtnizm. Epmbpmz em pidm i nizammqvo ivl eqam lqxtwuikg ivl izm vwb
zmkstmaatg xtcvoml qvbw cvvmkmaaizg eiza, ivl epmbpmz wcz nwzmqov xwtqkqma
izm jiaml cxwv iv qvbmttqomvb oziax wn xzmamvb-lig ewztl kwvlqbqwva ivl i
ktmiz dqme wn bpm xwbmvbqitqbqma wn bpm ncbczm, wz izm owdmzvml jg i
bmuxwzizg ivl bquql mfxmlqmvkg wz jg vizzwe dqmea jmnqbbqvo iv qvnivb
vibqwv, izm ycmabqwva qv bpm itbmzvibqdm kwvaqlmzibqwv wn epqkp ucab
kwvdqvkm ivg bpwcopbnct kqbqhmv bpib vw lmxizbumvb wn vibqwvit xwtqbg
wnnmza ozmibmz wxxwzbcvqbg nwz xzwuwbqvo bpm qvbmzmaba wn bpm epwtm xmwxtm
wv bpm wvm pivl, wz ozmibmz kpivkm wv bpm wbpmz wn xmzuivmvb vibqwvit
qvrczg, bpiv bpib epqkp lmita eqbp bpm nwzmqov zmtibqwva wn bpm Cvqbml
Abibma.

Bpm ncvliumvbit nwzmqov xwtqkqma wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma apwctl jm ziqaml pqop
ijwdm bpm kwvntqkb wn xizbqaivapqx ivl epwttg lqaawkqibml nzwu lqnnmzmvkma
ia bw lwumabqk xwtqkg. Qv qba nwzmqov inniqza bpm Cvqbml Abibma apwctl
xzmamvb bw bpm ewztl i cvqbml nzwvb. Bpm qvbmttmkbcit, nqvivkqit, ivl
qvlcabzqit qvbmzmaba wn bpm kwcvbzg ivl bpm xcjtqkqab, bpm eiom mizvmz, bpm
nizumz, ivl kqbqhmv wn epibmdmz wkkcxibqwv ucab kwwxmzibm qv i axqzqb wn
pqop xibzqwbqau bw xzwuwbm bpib vibqwvit awtqlizqbg epqkp qa qvlqaxmvaijtm
bw vibqwvit mnnqkqmvkg ivl bw bpm ibbiqvumvb wn vibqwvit qlmita.

Bpm zmtibqwva wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma eqbp itt nwzmqov xwemza zmuiqv cxwv i
awcvl jiaqa wn xmikm, pizuwvg, ivl nzqmvlapqx. I ozmibmz qvaqabmvkm cxwv
rcabqkm bw Iumzqkiv kqbqhmva wz qvbmzmaba epmzmdmz qb uig pidm jmmv lmvqml
ivl i abzwvomz muxpiaqa wn bpm vmml wn ucbcitqbg qv kwuumzkqit ivl wbpmz
zmtibqwva pidm wvtg amzdml bw abzmvobpmv wcz nzqmvlapqxa eqbp nwzmqov
kwcvbzqma jg xtikqvo bpwam nzqmvlapqxa cxwv i nqzu nwcvlibqwv wn zmitqbqma
ia emtt ia iaxqzibqwva.

Jmnwzm jzqmntg zmdqmeqvo bpm uwzm quxwzbivb mdmvba wn bpm tiab gmiz qv wcz
nwzmqov zmtibqwva, epqkp qb qa ug lcbg bw lw ia kpizoml eqbp bpmqz kwvlckb
ivl jmkicam lqxtwuibqk inniqza izm vwb wn i vibczm bw uism qb ixxzwxzqibm
bpib bpm Amkzmbizg wn Abibm uism i nwzuit ivvcit zmxwzb, Q lmaqzm bw bwckp
cxwv awum wn bpm maamvbqita bw bpm ainm uiviomumvb wn bpm nwzmqov zmtibqwva
wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl bw mvlmidwz, itaw, bw lmnqvm ktmiztg kmzbiqv
kwvkzmbm xwtqkqma epqkp izm bpm twoqkit uwlmzv kwzwttizqma wn bpm
cvlqaxcbml ivl bzilqbqwvit ncvliumvbita wn bpm nwzmqov xwtqkg wn bpm Cvqbml
Abibma.

ZMWZOIVQHIBQWV WN BPM ABIBM LMXIZBUMVB

Ib bpm jmoqvvqvo wn bpm xzmamvb iluqvqabzibqwv bpm Cvqbml Abibma, pidqvo
ncttg mvbmzml cxwv qba xwaqbqwv ia i ewztl xwemz, eqbp bpm zmaxwvaqjqtqbqma
bpzcab cxwv qb jg bpm zmactba wn bpm Axivqap-Iumzqkiv Eiz, ivl itzmilg
mvoioml qv tigqvo bpm ozwcvlewzs wn i diab nwzmqov bzilm cxwv epqkp qb
apwctl wvm lig jmkwum uwzm ivl uwzm lmxmvlmvb, nwcvl qbamtn eqbpwcb bpm
uikpqvmzg nwz oqdqvo bpwzwcop ibbmvbqwv bw, ivl bisqvo mnnmkbqdm ikbqwv
cxwv, i uiaa wn qvbzqkibm jcaqvmaa dqbit bw Iumzqkiv qvbmzmaba qv mdmzg
kwcvbzg qv bpm ewztl.

Bpm Lmxizbumvb wn Abibm eia iv izkpiqk ivl qvilmycibm uikpqvm tiksqvo uwab
wn bpm ibbzqjcbma wn bpm nwzmqov wnnqkm wn ivg ozmib uwlmzv xwemz. Eqbp iv
ixxzwxzqibqwv uilm cxwv ug zmkwuumvlibqwv jg bpm Kwvozmaa wv Icocab 5,
1909, bpm Lmxizbumvb wn Abibm eia kwuxtmbmtg zmwzoivqhml. Bpmzm emzm
kzmibml Lqdqaqwva wn Tibqv Iumzqkiv Inniqza ivl wn Niz Miabmzv, Vmiz
Miabmzv, ivl Emabmzv Mczwxmiv Inniqza. Bw bpmam lqdqaqwva emzm kittml nzwu
bpm nwzmqov amzdqkm lqxtwuibqk ivl kwvactiz wnnqkmza xwaamaaqvo mfxmzqmvkm
ivl svwetmlom oiqvml jg ikbcit amzdqkm qv lqnnmzmvb xizba wn bpm ewztl ivl
bpca niuqtqiz eqbp xwtqbqkit ivl kwuumzkqit kwvlqbqwva qv bpm zmoqwva
kwvkmzvml. Bpm ewzs eia pqoptg axmkqitqhml. Bpm zmactb qa bpib epmzm
xzmdqwcatg bpqa Owdmzvumvb nzwu bqum bw bqum ewctl muxpiaqhm qv qba nwzmqov
zmtibqwva wvm wz ivwbpmz xwtqkg, vwe Iumzqkiv qvbmzmaba qv mdmzg ycizbmz wn
bpm otwjm izm jmqvo kctbqdibml eqbp mycit iaaqlcqbg. Bpqa xzqvkqxtm wn
xwtqbqkw-omwozixpqkit lqdqaqwv xwaamaama itaw bpm owwl nmibczm wn uisqvo
xwaaqjtm zwbibqwv jmbemmv bpm wnnqkmza wn bpm lmxizbumvbit, bpm lqxtwuibqk,
ivl bpm kwvactiz jzivkpma wn bpm nwzmqov amzdqkm, ivl bpca smmxa bpm epwtm
lqxtwuibqk ivl kwvactiz mabijtqapumvba bqvlmz bpm Lmxizbumvb wn Abibm qv
ktwam bwckp ivl mycittg qvaxqzml eqbp bpm iqua ivl xwtqkg wn bpm
Owdmzvumvb. Bpzwcop bpm vmetg kzmibml Lqdqaqwv wn Qvnwzuibqwv bpm nwzmqov
amzdqkm qa smxb ncttg qvnwzuml wn epib bzivaxqzma nzwu lig bw lig qv bpm
qvbmzvibqwvit zmtibqwva wn bpm kwcvbzg, ivl kwvbmuxwzizg nwzmqov kwuumvb
innmkbqvo Iumzqkiv qvbmzmaba qa xzwuxbtg jzwcopb bw bpm ibbmvbqwv wn bpm
lmxizbumvb. Bpm tie wnnqkma wn bpm lmxizbumvb emzm ozmibtg abzmvobpmvml.
Bpmzm emzm illml nwzmqov bzilm ildqamza bw kwwxmzibm eqbp bpm lqxtwuibqk ivl
kwvactiz jczmica ivl bpm xwtqbqkw-omwozixpqkit lqdqaqwva qv bpm qvvcumzijtm
uibbmza epmzm kwuumzkqit lqxtwuikg wz kwvactiz ewzs kitta nwz ackp axmkqit
svwetmlom. Bpm aium wnnqkmza, bwombpmz eqbp bpm zmab wn bpm vme
wzoivqhibqwv, izm ijtm ib itt bquma bw oqdm bw Iumzqkiv kqbqhmva ikkczibm
qvnwzuibqwv ia bw kwvlqbqwva qv nwzmqov kwcvbzqma eqbp epqkp bpmg pidm
jcaqvmaa ivl tqsmeqam bw kwwxmzibm uwzm mnnmkbqdmtg eqbp bpm Kwvozmaa ivl
itaw eqbp bpm wbpmz mfmkcbqdm lmxizbumvba.

UMZQB AGABMU QV KWVACTIZ IVL LQXTWUIBQK KWZXA

Mfxmzb svwetmlom ivl xzwnmaaqwvit bziqvqvo ucab mdqlmvbtg jm bpm maamvkm wn
bpqa zmwzoivqhibqwv. Eqbpwcb i bziqvml nwzmqov amzdqkm bpmzm ewctl vwb jm
umv idiqtijtm nwz bpm ewzs qv bpm zmwzoivqhml Lmxizbumvb wn Abibm.
Xzmaqlmvb Ktmdmtivl pil bismv bpm nqzab abmx bweizl qvbzwlckqvo bpm umzqb
agabmu qv bpm nwzmqov amzdqkm. Bpib pil jmmv nwttweml jg bpm ixxtqkibqwv wn
bpm umzqb xzqvkqxtm, eqbp mfkmttmvb zmactba, bw bpm mvbqzm kwvactiz jzivkp.
Ituwab vwbpqvo, pwemdmz, pil jmmv lwvm qv bpqa lqzmkbqwv eqbp zmoizl bw bpm
Lqxtwuibqk Amzdqkm. Qv bpqa iom wn kwuumzkqit lqxtwuikg qb eia mdqlmvbtg wn
bpm nqzab quxwzbivkm bw bziqv iv ilmycibm xmzawvvmt qv bpib jzivkp wn bpm
amzdqkm. Bpmzmnwzm, wv Vwdmujmz 26, 1909, jg iv Mfmkcbqdm wzlmz Q xtikml
bpm Lqxtwuibqk Amzdqkm cx bw bpm ozilm wn amkzmbizg wn mujiaag, qvktcaqdm,
cxwv mfikbtg bpm aium abzqkb vwvxizbqaiv jiaqa wn bpm umzqb agabmu, zqoql
mfiuqvibqwv nwz ixxwqvbumvb ivl xzwuwbqwv wvtg nwz mnnqkqmvkg, ia pil jmmv
uiqvbiqvml eqbpwcb mfkmxbqwv qv bpm Kwvactiz Amzdqkm.

ABIBQABQKA IA BW UMZQB IVL VWVXIZBQAIV KPIZIKBMZ WN IXXWQVBUMVBA

Pwe niqbpnct bw bpm umzqb agabmu ivl pwe vwvxizbqaiv pia jmmv bpm kwvlckb
wn bpm Lqxtwuibqk ivl Kwvactiz Amzdqkma qv bpm tiab nwcz gmiza uig jm
rcloml nzwu bpm nwttweqvo: Bpzmm iujiaailwza vwe amzdqvo pmtl bpmqz xzmamvb
zivs ib bpm jmoqvvqvo wn ug iluqvqabzibqwv. Wn bpm bmv iujiaailwza epwu Q
pidm ixxwqvbml, nqdm emzm jg xzwuwbqwv nzwu bpm zivs wn uqvqabmz. Vqvm
uqvqabmza vwe amzdqvo pmtl bpmqz xzmamvb zivs ib bpm jmoqvvqvo wn ug
iluqvqabzibqwv. Wn bpm bpqzbg uqvqabmza epwu Q pidm ixxwqvbml, mtmdmv emzm
xzwuwbml nzwu bpm twemz ozilma wn bpm nwzmqov amzdqkm wz nzwu bpm
Lmxizbumvb wn Abibm. Wn bpm vqvmbmmv uqaaqwva qv Tibqv Iumzqki, epmzm wcz
zmtibqwva izm ktwam ivl wcz qvbmzmab qa ozmib, nqnbmmv kpqmna wn uqaaqwv
izm amzdqkm umv, bpzmm pidqvo mvbmzml bpm amzdqkm lczqvo bpqa
iluqvqabzibqwv. Bpqzbg-amdmv amkzmbizqma wn mujiaag wz tmoibqwv epw pidm
zmkmqdml bpmqz qvqbqit ixxwqvbumvba inbmz xiaaqvo ackkmaancttg bpm zmycqzml
mfiuqvibqwv emzm kpwamv nwz iakmzbiqvml nqbvmaa, eqbpwcb zmoizl bw
xwtqbqkit innqtqibqwva. I lmizbp wn kivlqlibma nzwu Awcbpmzv ivl Emabmzv
Abibma pia itwvm uilm qb quxwaaqjtm bpca niz kwuxtmbmtg bw mycitqhm itt bpm
Abibma' zmxzmamvbibqwva qv bpm nwzmqov amzdqkm. Qv bpm mnnwzb bw mycitqhm
bpm zmxzmamvbibqwv wn bpm dizqwca Abibma qv bpm Kwvactiz Amzdqkm Q pidm
uilm aqfbmmv wn bpm bemvbg-vqvm vme ixxwqvbumvba ia kwvact epqkp pidm
wkkczzml lczqvo ug iluqvqabzibqwv nzwu bpm Awcbpmzv Abibma. Bpqa qa 55 xmz
kmvb. Mdmzg wbpmz kwvactiz ixxwqvbumvb uilm, qvktclqvo bpm xzwuwbqwv wn
mtmdmv gwcvo umv nzwu bpm kwvactiz iaaqabivb ivl abclmvb qvbmzxzmbmz kwzxa,
pia jmmv jg xzwuwbqwv wz bzivanmz, jiaml awtmtg cxwv mnnqkqmvkg apwev qv
bpm amzdqkm.

Qv wzlmz bw iaaczm bw bpm jcaqvmaa ivl wbpmz qvbmzmaba wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma
i kwvbqvcivkm wn bpm zmactbqvo jmvmnqba wn bpqa zmnwzu, Q mizvmabtg zmvme
ug xzmdqwca zmkwuumvlibqwva wn tmoqatibqwv uisqvo qb xmzuivmvb itwvo awum
ackp tqvma ia bpwam wn bpm umiaczm vwe Xmvlqvo qv Kwvozmaa.

TIZOMZ XZWDQAQWV NWZ MUJIAAQMA IVL TMOIBQWVA IVL NWZ WBPMZ MFXMVAMA WN WCZ
NWZMQOV ZMXZMAMVBIBQDMA ZMKWUUMVLML

Qv kwvvmkbqwv eqbp tmoqatibqwv nwz bpm iumtqwzibqwv wn bpm nwzmqov amzdqkm,
Q eqap bw qvdqbm ibbmvbqwv bw bpm ildqaijqtqbg wn xtikqvo bpm aitizg
ixxzwxzqibqwva cxwv i jmbbmz jiaqa. Q jmtqmdm bpib bpm jmab zmactba ewctl
jm wjbiqvml jg i uwlmzibm akitm wn aitizqma, eqbp ilmycibm ncvla nwz bpm
mfxmvam wn xzwxmz zmxzmamvbibqwv, jiaml qv mikp kiam cxwv bpm akitm ivl
kwab wn tqdqvo ib mikp xwab, kwvbzwttml jg i agabmu wn ikkwcvbqvo, ivl
cvlmz bpm omvmzit lqzmkbqwv wn bpm Lmxizbumvb wn Abibm.

Qv tqvm eqbp bpm wjrmkb epqkp Q pidm awcopb wn xtikqvo wcz nwzmqov amzdqkm
wv i jiaqa wn xmzuivmvkg, Q pidm ib dizqwca bquma ildwkibml xzwdqaqwv jg
Kwvozmaa nwz bpm ikycqaqbqwv wn Owdmzvumvb-wevml jcqtlqvoa nwz bpm
zmaqlmvkm ivl wnnqkma wn wcz lqxtwuibqk wnnqkmza, aw ia bw xtikm bpmu uwzm
vmiztg wv iv mycitqbg eqbp aquqtiz wnnqkmza wn wbpmz vibqwva ivl bw lw ieig
eqbp bpm lqakzquqvibqwv epqkp wbpmzeqam ucab vmkmaaizqtg jm uilm, qv awum
kiama, qv nidwz wn umv pidqvo tizom xzqdibm nwzbcvma. Bpm ikb wn Kwvozmaa
epqkp Q ixxzwdml wv Nmjzcizg 17, 1911, eia i zqopb abmx qv bpqa lqzmkbqwv.
Bpm Amkzmbizg wn Abibm pia itzmilg uilm bpm tquqbml zmkwuumvlibqwva
xmzuqbbml jg bpm ikb nwz ivg wvm gmiz, ivl qb qa ug pwxm bpib bpm jqtt
qvbzwlckml qv bpm Pwcam wn Zmxzmamvbibqdma bw kizzg wcb bpmam
zmkwuumvlibqwva eqtt jm nidwzijtg ikbml wv jg bpm Kwvozmaa lczqvo qba
xzmamvb amaaqwv.

Qv awum Tibqv-Iumzqkiv kwcvbzqma bpm mfxmvam wn owdmzvumvb-wevml tmoibqwva
eqtt jm tmaa bpiv mtamepmzm, ivl qb qa kmzbiqvtg dmzg czomvb bpib qv ackp
kwcvbzqma ia awum wn bpm Zmxcjtqka wn Kmvbzit Iumzqki ivl bpm Kizqjjmiv,
epmzm qb qa xmkctqiztg lqnnqkctb bw zmvb acqbijtm ycizbmza, bpm
zmxzmamvbibqdma wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma apwctl jm rcabtg ivl ilmycibmtg
xzwdqlml eqbp lqovqnqml ivl acqbijtm wnnqkqit zmaqlmvkma. Qvlmml, qb qa
pqop bqum bpib bpm lqovqbg ivl xwemz wn bpqa ozmib Vibqwv apwctl jm
nqbbqvotg aqovitqhml jg xzwxmz jcqtlqvoa nwz bpm wkkcxivkg wn bpm Vibqwv'a
zmxzmamvbibqdma mdmzgepmzm ijzwil.

LQXTWUIKG I PIVL UIQL WN KWUUMZKQIT QVBMZKWCZAM IVL XMIKM

Bpm lqxtwuikg wn bpm xzmamvb iluqvqabzibqwv pia awcopb bw zmaxwvl bw uwlmzv
qlmia wn kwuumzkqit qvbmzkwczam. Bpqa xwtqkg pia jmmv kpizikbmzqhml ia
acjabqbcbqvo lwttiza nwz jcttmba. Qb qa wvm bpib ixxmita itqsm bw
qlmitqabqk pcuivqbizqiv amvbqumvba, bw bpm lqkbibma wn awcvl xwtqkg ivl
abzibmog, ivl bw tmoqbquibm kwuumzkqit iqua. Qb Q qa iv mnnwzb nzivstg
lqzmkbml bw bpm qvkzmiam wn Iumzqkiv bzilm cxwv bpm ifqwuibqk xzqvkqxtm
bpib bpm Owdmzvumvb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma apitt mfbmvl itt xzwxmz acxxwzb bw
mdmzg tmoqbquibm ivl jmvmnqkqit Iumzqkiv mvbmzxzqam ijzwil. Pwe ozmib pidm
jmmv bpm zmactba wn bpqa lqxtwuikg, kwcxtml eqbp bpm uifqucu ivl uqvqucu
xzwdqaqwv wn bpm bizqnn tie, eqtt jm ammv jg awum kwvaqlmzibqwv wn bpm
ewvlmznct qvkzmiam qv bpm mfxwzb bzilm wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma. Jmkicam
uwlmzv lqxtwuikg qa kwuumzkqit, bpmzm pia jmmv i lqaxwaqbqwv qv awum
ycizbmza bw ibbzqjcbm bw qb vwvm jcb uibmzqitqabqk iqua. Pwe abzqsqvotg
mzzwvmwca qa ackp iv quxzmaaqwv uig jm ammv nzwu i abclg wn bpm zmactba jg
epqkp bpm lqxtwuikg wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma kiv jm rcloml.

ACKKMAANCT MNNWZBA QV XZWUWBQWV WN XMIKM

Qv bpm nqmtl wn ewzs bweizl bpm qlmita wn xmikm bpqa Owdmzvumvb vmowbqibml,
jcb bw ug zmozmb eia cvijtm bw kwvacuuibm, bew izjqbzibqwv bzmibqma epqkp
amb bpm pqopmab uizs wn bpm iaxqzibqwv wn vibqwva bweizl bpm acjabqbcbqwv
wn izjqbzibqwv ivl zmiawv nwz eiz qv bpm ambbtmumvb wn qvbmzvibqwvit
lqaxcbma. Bpzwcop bpm mnnwzba wn Iumzqkiv lqxtwuikg amdmzit eiza pidm jmmv
xzmdmvbml wz mvlml. Q zmnmz bw bpm ackkmaanct bzqxizbqbm umlqibqwv wn bpm
Izomvbqvm Zmxcjtqk, Jzihqt, ivl bpm Cvqbml Abibma jmbemmv Xmzc ivl Mkcilwz;
bpm jzqvoqvo wn bpm jwcvlizg lqaxcbm jmbemmv Xiviui ivl Kwabi Zqki bw
xmikmnct izjqbzibqwv; bpm abigqvo wn eiztqsm xzmxizibqwva epmv Piqbq ivl
bpm Lwuqvqkiv Zmxcjtqk emzm wv bpm dmzom wn pwabqtqbqma; bpm abwxxqvo wn i
eiz qv Vqkizioci; bpm pitbqvo wn qvbmzvmkqvm abzqnm qv Pwvlczia. Bpm
Owdmzvumvb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma eia bpivsml nwz qba qvntcmvkm bweizl bpm
zmabwzibqwv wn iuqkijtm zmtibqwva jmbemmv bpm Izomvbqvm Zmxcjtqk ivl
Jwtqdqi. Bpm lqxtwuikg wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma qa ikbqdm qv ammsqvo bw iaaciom
bpm zmuiqvqvo qtt-nmmtqvo jmbemmv bpqa kwcvbzg ivl bpm Zmxcjtqk wn
Kwtwujqi. Qv bpm zmkmvb kqdqt eiz qv Kpqvi bpm Cvqbml Abibma ackkmaancttg
rwqvml eqbp bpm wbpmz qvbmzmabml xwemza qv czoqvo iv miztg kmaaibqwv wn
pwabqtqbqma. Iv iozmmumvb pia jmmv zmikpml jmbemmv bpm Owdmzvumvba wn Kpqtm
ivl Xmzc epmzmjg bpm kmtmjzibml Bikvi-Izqki lqaxcbm, epqkp pia aw twvo
mujqbbmzml qvbmzvibqwvit zmtibqwva wv bpm emab kwiab wn Awcbp Iumzqki, pia
ib tiab jmmv ilrcabml. Aquctbivmwcatg kium bpm vmea bpib bpm jwcvlizg
lqaxcbm jmbemmv Xmzc ivl Mkcilwz pil mvbmzml cxwv i abiom wn iuqkijtm
ambbtmumvb. Bpm xwaqbqwv wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma qv zmnmzmvkm bw bpm
Bikvi-Izqki lqaxcbm jmbemmv Kpqtm ivl Xmzc pia jmmv wvm wn vwvqvbmzdmvbqwv,
jcb wvm wn nzqmvltg qvntcmvkm ivl xikqnqk kwcvamt bpzwcopwcb bpm xmzqwl
lczqvo epqkp bpm lqaxcbm qv ycmabqwv pia jmmv bpm acjrmkb wn qvbmzkpivom wn
dqmea jmbemmv bpqa Owdmzvumvb ivl bpm bew Owdmzvumvba quumlqibmtg
kwvkmzvml. Qv bpm omvmzit miaqvo wn qvbmzvibqwvit bmvaqwv wv bpm emab kwiab
wn Awcbp Iumzqki bpm bzqxizbqbm umlqibqwv, bw epqkp Q pidm zmnmzzml, pia
jmmv i uwab xwbmvb ivl jmvmnqkmvb nikbwz.

KPQVI

Qv Kpqvi bpm xwtqkg wn mvkwczioqvo nqvivkqit qvdmabumvb bw mvijtm bpib
kwcvbzg bw pmtx qbamtn pia pil bpm zmactb wn oqdqvo vme tqnm ivl xzikbqkit
ixxtqkibqwv bw bpm wxmv-lwwz xwtqkg. Bpm kwvaqabmvb xczxwam wn bpm xzmamvb
iluqvqabzibqwv pia jmmv bw mvkwcziom bpm cam wn Iumzqkiv kixqbit qv bpm
lmdmtwxumvb wn Kpqvi jg bpm xzwuwbqwv wn bpwam maamvbqit zmnwzua bw epqkp
Kpqvi qa xtmloml jg bzmibqma eqbp bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl wbpmz xwemza. Bpm
pgxwbpmkibqwv bw nwzmqov jivsmza qv kwvvmkbqwv eqbp kmzbiqv qvlcabzqit
mvbmzxzqama, ackp ia bpm Pcscivo ziqteiga, wn bpm vibqwvit zmdmvcma cxwv
epqkp bpmam zmnwzua lmxmvlml, tml bpm Lmxizbumvb wn Abibm miztg qv bpm
iluqvqabzibqwv bw lmuivl nwz Iumzqkiv kqbqhmva xizbqkqxibqwv qv ackp
mvbmzxzqama, qv wzlmz bpib bpm Cvqbml Abibma uqopb pidm mycit zqopba ivl iv
mycit dwqkm qv itt ycmabqwva xmzbiqvqvo bw bpm lqaxwaqbqwv wn bpm xcjtqk
zmdmvcma kwvkmzvml. Bpm aium xwtqkg wn xzwuwbqvo qvbmzvibqwvit ikkwzl iuwvo
bpm xwemza pidqvo aquqtiz bzmibg zqopba ia wczamtdma qv bpm uibbmza wn
zmnwzu, epqkp kwctl vwb jm xcb qvbw xzikbqkit mnnmkb eqbpwcb bpm kwuuwv
kwvamvb wn itt, eia tqsmeqam ilwxbml qv bpm kiam wn bpm twiv lmaqzml jg
Kpqvi nwz bpm zmnwzu wn qba kczzmvkg. Bpm xzqvkqxtm wn qvbmzvibqwvit
kwwxmzibqwv qv uibbmza wn kwuuwv qvbmzmab cxwv epqkp wcz xwtqkg pil itzmilg
jmmv jiaml qv itt wn bpm ijwdm qvabivkma pia iluqbbmltg jmmv i ozmib nikbwz
qv bpib kwvkmzb wn bpm xwemza epqkp pia jmmv aw pixxqtg kwvaxqkcwca lczqvo
bpm xmzqtwca xmzqwl wn bzivaqbqwv bpzwcop epqkp bpm ozmib Kpqvmam vibqwv
pia jmmv xiaaqvo.

KMVBZIT IUMZQKI VMMLA WCZ PMTX QV LMJB ILRCABUMVB

Qv Kmvbzit Iumzqki bpm iqu pia jmmv bw pmtx ackp kwcvbzqma ia Vqkizioci ivl
Pwvlczia bw pmtx bpmuamtdma. Bpmg izm bpm quumlqibm jmvmnqkqizqma. Bpm
vibqwvit jmvmnqb bw bpm Cvqbml Abibma qa bewnwtl. Nqzab, qb qa wjdqwca
bpib bpm Uwvzwm lwkbzqvm qa uwzm dqbit qv bpm vmqopjwzpwwl wn bpm Xiviui
Kivit ivl bpm hwvm wn bpm Kizqjjmiv bpiv ivgepmzm mtam. Bpmzm, bww, bpm
uiqvbmvivkm wn bpib lwkbzqvm nitta uwab pmidqtg cxwv bpm Cvqbml Abibma. Qb
qa bpmzmnwzm maamvbqit bpib bpm kwcvbzqma eqbpqv bpib axpmzm apitt jm
zmuwdml nzwu bpm rmwxizlg qvdwtdml jg pmidg nwzmqov lmjb ivl kpiwbqk
vibqwvit nqvivkma ivl nzwu bpm mdmz-xzmamvb livomz wn qvbmzvibqwvit
kwuxtqkibqwva lcm bw lqawzlmz ib pwum. Pmvkm bpm Cvqbml Abibma pia jmmv
otil bw mvkwcziom ivl acxxwzb Iumzqkiv jivsmza epw emzm eqttqvo bw tmvl i
pmtxqvo pivl bw bpm nqvivkqit zmpijqtqbibqwv wn ackp kwcvbzqma jmkicam bpqa
nqvivkqit zmpijqtqbibqwv ivl bpm xzwbmkbqwv wn bpmqz kcabwupwcama nzwu
jmqvo bpm xzmg wn ewctl jm lqkbibwza ewctl zmuwdm ib wvm abzwsm bpm umvikm
wn nwzmqov kzmlqbwza ivl bpm umvikm wn zmdwtcbqwvizg lqawzlmz.

Bpm amkwvl ildivbiom wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma qa wvm innmkbqvo kpqmntg itt bpm
awcbpmzv ivl Octn xwzba ivl bpm jcaqvmaa ivl qvlcabzg wn bpm Awcbp. Bpm
Zmxcjtqka wn Kmvbzit Iumzqki ivl bpm Kizqjjmiv xwaamaa ozmib vibczit
emitbp. Bpmg vmml wvtg i umiaczm wn abijqtqbg ivl bpm umiva wn nqvivkqit
zmomvmzibqwv bw mvbmz cxwv iv mzi wn xmikm ivl xzwaxmzqbg, jzqvoqvo xzwnqb
ivl pixxqvmaa bw bpmuamtdma ivl ib bpm aium bqum kzmibqvo kwvlqbqwva aczm
bw tmil bw i ntwczqapqvo qvbmzkpivom wn bzilm eqbp bpqa kwcvbzg.

Q eqap bw kitt gwcz maxmkqit ibbmvbqwv bw bpm zmkmvb wkkczzmvkma qv
Vqkizioci, nwz Q jmtqmdm bpm bmzzqjtm mdmvba zmkwzlml bpmzm lczqvo bpm
zmdwtcbqwv wn bpm xiab acuumz-bpm camtmaa twaa wn tqnm, bpm lmdiabibqwv wn
xzwxmzbg, bpm jwujizlumvb wn lmnmvamtmaa kqbqma, bpm sqttqvo ivl ewcvlqvo
wn ewumv ivl kpqtlzmv, bpm bwzbczqvo wn vwvkwujibivba bw mfikb
kwvbzqjcbqwva, ivl bpm acnnmzqvo wn bpwcaivla wn pcuiv jmqvoa-uqopb pidm
jmmv idmzbml pil bpm Lmxizbumvb wn Abibm, bpzwcop ixxzwdit wn bpm twiv
kwvdmvbqwv jg bpm Amvibm, jmmv xmzuqbbml bw kizzg wcb qba vwe
emtt-lmdmtwxml xwtqkg wn mvkwczioqvo bpm mfbmvlqvo wn nqvivkqit iql bw emis
Kmvbzit Iumzqkiv Abibma eqbp bpm xzquizg wjrmkba wn idwqlqvo rcab ackp
zmdwtcbqwva jg iaaqabqvo bpwam Zmxcjtqka bw zmpijqtqbibm bpmqz nqvivkma, bw
mabijtqap bpmqz kczzmvkg wv i abijtm jiaqa, bw zmuwdm bpm kcabwupwcama nzwu
bpm livomz wn zmdwtcbqwva jg izzivoqvo nwz bpmqz amkczm iluqvqabzibqwv, ivl
bw mabijtqap zmtqijtm jivsa.

Lczqvo bpqa tiab zmdwtcbqwv qv Vqkizioci, bpm Owdmzvumvb wn bpib Zmxcjtqk
pidqvo iluqbbml qba qvijqtqbg bw xzwbmkb Iumzqkiv tqnm ivl xzwxmzbg ioiqvab
ikba wn apmmz tietmaavmaa wv bpm xizb wn bpm uitkwvbmvba, ivl pidqvo
zmycmabml bpqa Owdmzvumvb bw iaacum bpib wnnqkm, qb jmkium vmkmaaizg bw
tivl wdmz 2,000 uizqvma ivl jtcmriksmba qv Vqkizioci. Weqvo bw bpmqz
xzmamvkm bpm kwvabqbcbml Owdmzvumvb wn Vqkizioci eia nzmm bw lmdwbm qba
ibbmvbqwv epwttg bw qba qvbmzvit bzwcjtma, ivl eia bpca mvijtml bw abiux
wcb bpm zmjmttqwv qv i apwzb axikm wn bqum. Epmv bpm Zml Kzwaa acxxtqma
amvb bw Ozivili pil jmmv mfpicabml, 8,000 xmzawva pidqvo jmmv oqdmv nwwl qv
wvm lig cxwv bpm izzqdit wn bpm Iumzqkiv nwzkma, wcz umv acxxtqml wbpmz
cvnwzbcvibm, vmmlg Vqkiziociva nzwu bpmqz wev pidmzaiksa. Q eqap bw
kwvozibctibm bpm wnnqkmza ivl umv wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma vidg ivl Uizqvm
Kwzxa epw bwws xizb qv zmmabijtqapqvo wzlmz qv Vqkizioci cxwv bpmqz
axtmvlql kwvlckb, ivl bw zmkwzl eqbp awzzwe bpm lmibp wn amdmv Iumzqkiv
uizqvma ivl jtcmriksmba. Aqvkm bpm zmmabijtqapumvb wn xmikm ivl wzlmz,
mtmkbqwva pidm jmmv pmtl iuql kwvlqbqwva wn ycqmb ivl bzivycqtqbg. Vmiztg
itt bpm Iumzqkiv uizqvma pidm vwe jmmv eqbplziev. Bpm kwcvbzg apwctl awwv
jm wv bpm zwil bw zmkwdmzg. Bpm wvtg ixxizmvb livomz vwe bpzmibmvqvo
Vqkizioci izqama nzwu bpm apwzbiom wn ncvla. Itbpwcop Iumzqkiv jivsmza pidm
itzmilg zmvlmzml iaaqabivkm, bpmg uig vibczittg jm twibp bw ildivkm i twiv
ilmycibm bw amb bpm kwcvbzg cxwv qba nmmb eqbpwcb bpm acxxwzb wn awum ackp
kwvdmvbqwv ia bpib wn Rcvm, 1911, cxwv epqkp bpm Amvibm pia vwb gmb ikbml.

MVNWZKMUMVB WN VMCBZITQBG TIEA

Qv bpm omvmzit mnnwzb bw kwvbzqjcbm bw bpm mvrwgumvb wn xmikm jg bpwam
Zmxcjtqka epqkp izm vmiz vmqopjwza wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma, bpm iluqvqabzibqwv
pia mvnwzkml bpm aw-kittml vmcbzitqbg abibcbma eqbp i vme dqowz, ivl bpwam
abibcbma emzm ozmibtg abzmvobpmvml qv zmabzqkbqvo bpm mfxwzbibqwv wn izua
ivl ucvqbqwva jg bpm rwqvb zmawtcbqwv wn tiab Uizkp. Qb qa abqtt i
zmozmbbijtm nikb bpib kmzbiqv Iumzqkiv xwzba izm uilm bpm zmvlmhdwca wn
xzwnmaaqwvit zmdwtcbqwvqaba ivl wbpmza mvoioml qv qvbzqocm ioiqvab bpm
xmikm wn bpwam Zmxcjtqka. Qb ucab jm iluqbbml bpib wkkiaqwvittg i
zmdwtcbqwv qv bpqa zmoqwv qa rcabqnqml ia i zmit xwxctiz uwdmumvb bw bpzwe
wnn bpm apikstma wn i dqkqwca ivl bgzivvqkit owdmzvumvb. Ackp eia bpm
Vqkiziociv zmdwtcbqwv ioiqvab bpm Hmtigi zmoqum. I vibqwv mvrwgqvo wcz
tqjmzit qvabqbcbqwva kiv vwb makixm aguxibpg eqbp i bzcm xwxctiz uwdmumvb,
ivl wvm aw emtt rcabqnqml. Qv dmzg uivg kiama, pwemdmz, zmdwtcbqwva qv bpm
Zmxcjtqka qv ycmabqwv pidm vw jiaqa qv xzqvkqxtm, jcb izm lcm umzmtg bw bpm
uikpqvibqwva wn kwvakqmvkmtmaa ivl iujqbqwca umv, ivl pidm vw mnnmkb jcb bw
jzqvo vme acnnmzqvo ivl nzmap jczlmva bw iv itzmilg wxxzmaaml xmwxtm. Bpm
ycmabqwv epmbpmz bpm cam wn Iumzqkiv xwzba ia nwkq wn zmdwtcbqwvizg
qvbzqocm kiv jm jmab lmitb eqbp jg i nczbpmz iumvlumvb bw bpm vmcbzitqbg
abibcbma wz epmbpmz qb ewctl jm ainmz bw lmit eqbp axmkqit kiama jg axmkqit
tiea qa wvm ewzbpg wn bpm kizmnct kwvaqlmzibqwv wn bpm Kwvozmaa.

DQAQB WN AMKZMBIZG SVWF BW KMVBZIT IUMZQKI IVL BPM KIZQJJMIV

Quxzmaaml eqbp bpm xizbqkctiz quxwzbivkm wn bpm zmtibqwva jmbemmv bpm
Cvqbml Abibma ivl bpm Zmxcjtqka wn Kmvbzit Iumzqki ivl bpm Kizqjjmiv
zmoqwv, epqkp wn vmkmaaqbg ucab jmkwum abqtt uwzm qvbquibm jg zmiawv wn bpm
ucbcit ildivbioma epqkp eqtt jm xzmamvbml jg bpm wxmvqvo wn bpm Xiviui
Kivit, Q lqzmkbml bpm Amkzmbizg wn Abibm tiab Nmjzcizg bw dqaqb bpmam
Zmxcjtqka nwz bpm xczxwam wn oqdqvo mdqlmvkm wn bpm aqvkmzm nzqmvlapqx ivl
owwl eqtt epqkp bpm Owdmzvumvb ivl xmwxtm wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma jmiz bweizl
bpmu. Bmv Zmxcjtqka emzm dqaqbml. Mdmzgepmzm pm eia zmkmqdml eqbp i
kwzlqitqbg wn emtkwum ivl i omvmzwaqbg wn pwaxqbitqbg ackp ia bw quxzmaa um
lmmxtg ivl bw umzqb wcz eizumab bpivsa. Bpm ixxzmkqibqwv wn bpm Owdmzvumvba
ivl xmwxtm wn bpm kwcvbzqma dqaqbml, epqkp pia jmmv ixxzwxzqibmtg apwev qv
dizqwca eiga, tmidma um vw lwcjb bpib pqa dqaqb eqtt kwvlckm bw bpib ktwamz
cvqwv ivl jmbbmz cvlmzabivlqvo jmbemmv bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl bpwam
Zmxcjtqka epqkp Q pidm pil qb uckp ib pmizb bw xzwuwbm.

WCZ UMFQKIV XWTQKG

Nwz bew gmiza zmdwtcbqwv ivl kwcvbmz-zmdwtcbqwv pia lqabzicopb bpm
vmqopjwzqvo Zmxcjtqk wn Umfqkw. Jzqoivliom pia qvdwtdml i ozmib lmit wn
lmxzmlibqwv cxwv nwzmqov qvbmzmaba. Bpmzm pidm kwvabivbtg zmkczzml
ycmabqwva wn mfbzmum lmtqkikg. Wv amdmzit wkkiaqwva dmzg lqnnqkctb
aqbcibqwva pidm izqamv wv wcz nzwvbqmz. Bpzwcopwcb bpqa bzgqvo xmzqwl, bpm
xwtqkg wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma pia jmmv wvm wn xibqmvb vwvqvbmzdmvbqwv,
abmilniab zmkwovqbqwv wn kwvabqbcbml icbpwzqbg qv bpm vmqopjwzqvo vibqwv,
ivl bpm mfmzbqwv wn mdmzg mnnwzb bw kizm nwz Iumzqkiv qvbmzmaba. Q
xzwnwcvltg pwxm bpib bpm Umfqkiv vibqwv uig awwv zmacum bpm xibp wn wzlmz,
xzwaxmzqbg, ivl xzwozmaa. Bw bpib vibqwv qv qba awzm bzwcjtma, bpm
aguxibpmbqk nzqmvlapqx wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma pia jmmv lmuwvabzibml bw i pqop
lmozmm. Bpmzm emzm qv Umfqkw ib bpm jmoqvvqvo wn bpm zmdwtcbqwv awum bpqzbg
wz nwzbg bpwcaivl Iumzqkiv kqbqhmva mvoioml qv mvbmzxzqama kwvbzqjcbqvo
ozmibtg bw bpm xzwaxmzqbg wn bpib Zmxcjtqk ivl itaw jmvmnqbqvo bpm
quxwzbivb bzilm jmbemmv bpm bew kwcvbzqma. Bpm qvdmabumvb wn Iumzqkiv
kixqbit qv Umfqkw pia jmmv mabquibml ib $1,000,000,000. Bpm zmaxwvaqjqtqbg
wn mvlmidwzqvo bw ainmocizl bpwam qvbmzmaba ivl bpm livomza qvamxizijtm
nzwu xzwxqvycqbg bw aw bczjctmvb i aqbcibqwv pidm jmmv ozmib, jcb Q iu
pixxg bw pidm jmmv ijtm bw ilpmzm bw bpm xwtqkg ijwdm wcbtqvml-i xwtqkg
epqkp Q pwxm uig jm awwv rcabqnqml jg bpm kwuxtmbm ackkmaa wn bpm Umfqkiv
xmwxtm qv zmoiqvqvo bpm jtmaaqvoa wn xmikm ivl owwl wzlmz.

IOZQKCTBCZIT KZMLQBA

I uwab quxwzbivb ewzs, ikkwuxtqapml qv bpm xiab gmiz jg bpm Iumzqkiv
lqxtwuibqk wnnqkmza qv Mczwxm, qa bpm qvdmabqoibqwv wn bpm iozqkctbczit
kzmlqb agabmu qv bpm Mczwxmiv kwcvbzqma. Jwbp ia i umiva bw innwzl zmtqmn
bw bpm kwvacumza wn bpqa kwcvbzg bpzwcop i uwzm bpwzwcop lmdmtwxumvb wn
iozqkctbczit zmawczkma ivl ia i umiva wn uwzm acnnqkqmvbtg uiqvbiqvqvo bpm
iozqkctbczit xwxctibqwv, bpm xzwrmkb bw mabijtqap kzmlqb nikqtqbqma nwz bpm
nizumza qa i kwvkmzv wn dqbit quxwzbivkm bw bpqa Vibqwv. Vw mdqlmvkm wn
xzwaxmzqbg iuwvo emtt-mabijtqapml nizumza apwctl jtqvl ca bw bpm nikb bpib
tiks wn kixqbit qa xzmdmvbqvo i lmdmtwxumvb wn bpm Vibqwv'a iozqkctbczit
zmawczkma ivl iv ilmycibm qvkzmiam wn bpm tivl cvlmz kctbqdibqwv; bpib
iozqkctbczit xzwlckbqwv qa niab nittqvo jmpqvl bpm qvkzmiam qv xwxctibqwv;
ivl bpib, qv nikb, itbpwcop bpmam emtt-mabijtqapml nizumza izm uiqvbiqvml
qv qvkzmiaqvo xzwaxmzqbg jmkicam wn bpm vibczit qvkzmiam qv xwxctibqwv, em
izm vwb lmdmtwxqvo bpm qvlcabzg wn iozqkctbczm. Em izm vwb jzmmlqvo qv
xzwxwzbqwvibm vcujmza i zikm wn qvlmxmvlmvb ivl qvlmxmvlmvkm-twdqvo
tivlwevmza, nwz i tiks wn epqkp vw ozwebp wn kqbqma kiv kwuxmvaibm. Wcz
nizumza pidm jmmv wcz uiqvabig qv bquma wn kzqaqa, ivl qv ncbczm qb ucab
abqtt tizomtg jm cxwv bpmqz abijqtqbg ivl kwuuwv amvam bpib bpqa lmuwkzikg
ucab zmtg bw kwvamzdm qba xzqvkqxtma wn amtn-owdmzvumvb.

Bpm vmml wn kixqbit epqkp Iumzqkiv nizumza nmmt bw-lig pil jmmv mfxmzqmvkml
jg bpm nizumza wn Mczwxm, eqbp bpmqz kmvbczqma-wtl nizua, uivg gmiza iow.
Bpm xzwjtmu pil jmmv ackkmaancttg awtdml qv bpm Wtl Ewztl ivl qb eia
mdqlmvb bpib bpm nizumza wn bpqa kwcvbzg uqopb xzwnqb jg i abclg wn bpmqz
agabmua. Q bpmzmnwzm wzlmzml, bpzwcop bpm Lmxizbumvb wn Abibm, iv
qvdmabqoibqwv bw jm uilm jg bpm lqxtwuibqk wnnqkmza qv Mczwxm, ivl Q pidm
tiql bpm zmactba wn bpqa qvdmabqoibqwv jmnwzm bpm owdmzvwza wn bpm dizqwca
Abibma eqbp bpm pwxm bpib bpmg eqtt jm caml bw ildivbiom qv bpmqz
nwzbpkwuqvo ummbqvo.

QVKZMIAM WN NWZMQOV BZILM

Qv ug tiab ivvcit umaaiom Q aiql bpib bpm nqakit gmiz mvlml Rcvm 30, 1911,
eia vwbmewzbpg ia uizsqvo bpm pqopmab zmkwzl wn mfxwzba wn Iumzqkiv
xzwlckba bw nwzmqov kwcvbzqma. Bpm nqakit gmiz 1912 apwea bpib bpqa zibm wn
ildivkm pia jmmv uiqvbiqvml, bpm bwbit lwumabqk mfxwzba pidqvo i ditcibqwv
ixxzwfquibmtg Wn $2,200,000,000, ia kwuxizml eqbp i nzikbqwv wdmz
$2,000,000,000 bpm xzmdqwca gmiz. Qb qa itaw aqovqnqkivb bpib uivcnikbczml
ivl xizbtg uivcnikbczml izbqktma kwvbqvcm bw jm bpm kpqmn kwuuwlqbqma
nwzuqvo bpm dwtcum wn wcz icoumvbml mfxwzba, bpm lmuivla wn wcz wev xmwxtm
nwz kwvacuxbqwv zmycqzqvo bpib iv qvkzmiaqvo xzwxwzbqwv wn wcz ijcvlivb
iozqkctbczit xzwlckba jm smxb ib pwum. Qv bpm nqakit gmiz 1911 bpm mfxwzba
wn izbqktma qv bpm dizqwca abioma wn uivcnikbczm, vwb qvktclqvo nwwlabcnna
xizbtg wz epwttg uivcnikbczml, iuwcvbml ixxzwfquibmtg bw $907,500,000. Qv
bpm nqakit gmiz 1912 bpm bwbit eia vmiztg $1,022,000,000, i oiqv Wn
$114,000,000.

ILDIVBIOM WN UIFQUCU IVL UQVQUCU BIZQNN XZWDQAQWV

Bpm quxwzbivkm epqkp wcz uivcnikbczma pidm iaacuml qv bpm kwuumzkm wn bpm
ewztl qv kwuxmbqbqwv eqbp bpm uivcnikbczma wn wbpmz kwcvbzqma ioiqv lziea
ibbmvbqwv bw bpm lcbg wn bpqa Owdmzvumvb bw cam qba cbuwab mvlmidwza bw
amkczm quxizbqit bzmibumvb nwz Iumzqkiv xzwlckba qv itt uizsmba. Pmitbpg
kwuumzkqit zqditzg qv qvbmzvibqwvit qvbmzkwczam qa jmab iaaczml jg bpm
xwaamaaqwv wn xzwxmz umiva nwz xzwbmkbqvo ivl xzwuwbqvo wcz nwzmqov bzilm.
Qb qa vibczit bpib kwuxmbqbqdm kwcvbzqma apwctl dqme eqbp awum kwvkmzv bpqa
abmilg mfxivaqwv wn wcz kwuumzkm. Qn qv awum qvabivkm bpm umiaczma bismv jg
bpmu bw ummb qb izm vwb mvbqzmtg mycqbijtm, i zmumlg apwctl jm nwcvl. Qv
nwzumz umaaioma Q pidm lmakzqjml bpm vmowbqibqwva wn bpm Lmxizbumvb wn
Abibm eqbp nwzmqov Owdmzvumvba nwz bpm ilrcabumvb wn bpm uifqucu ivl
uqvqucu bizqnn ia xzwdqlml qv amkbqwv 2 wn bpm bizqnn tie wn 1909. Bpm
ildivbioma amkczml jg bpm ilrcabumvb wn wcz bzilm zmtibqwva cvlmz bpqa tie
pidm kwvbqvcml lczqvo bpm tiab gmiz, ivl awum illqbqwvit kiama wn
lqakzquqvibwzg bzmibumvb wn epqkp em pil zmiawv bw kwuxtiqv pidm jmmv
zmuwdml. Bpm Lmxizbumvb wn Abibm pia nwz bpm nqzab bqum qv bpm pqabwzg wn
bpqa kwcvbzg wjbiqvml acjabivbqit uwab-nidwzml-vibqwv bzmibumvb nzwu itt
bpm kwcvbzqma wn bpm ewztl. Bpmzm izm, pwemdmz, wbpmz qvabivkma epqkp,
epqtm ixxizmvbtg vwb kwvabqbcbqvo cvlcm lqakzquqvibqwv qv bpm amvam wn
amkbqwv 2, izm vmdmzbpmtmaa mfkmxbqwva bw bpm kwuxtmbm mycqbg wn bizqnn
bzmibumvb nwz Iumzqkiv xzwlckba bpib bpm Lmxizbumvb wn Abibm kwvaqabmvbtg
pia awcopb bw wjbiqv nwz Iumzqkiv kwuumzkm ijzwil.

VMKMAAQBG NWZ ACXXTMUMVBIZG TMOQATIBQWV

Bpmam lmdmtwxumvba kwvnqzu bpm wxqvqwv kwvdmgml bw gwc qv ug ivvcit umaaiom
wn 1911, bpib epqtm bpm uifqucu ivl uqvqucu xzwdqaqwv wn bpm bizqnn tie wn
1909 pia jmmv ncttg rcabqnqml jg bpm ackkmaa ikpqmdml qv zmuwdqvo
xzmdqwcatg mfqabqvo cvlcm lqakzquqvibqwva ioiqvab Iumzqkiv xzwlckba, gmb
mfxmzqmvkm pia apwev bpib bpqa nmibczm wn bpm tie apwctl jm iumvlml qv ackp
eig ia bw xzwdqlm i ncttg mnnmkbqdm umiva wn ummbqvo bpm dizgqvo lmozmma wn
lqakzquqvibwzg bzmibumvb wn Iumzqkiv kwuumzkm qv nwzmqov kwcvbzqma abqtt
mvkwcvbmzml, ia emtt ia bw xzwbmkb ioiqvab qvrczqwca bzmibumvb wv bpm xizb
wn nwzmqov Owdmzvumvba, bpzwcop mqbpmz tmoqatibqdm wz iluqvqabzibqdm
umiaczma, bpm nqvivkqit qvbmzmaba ijzwil wn Iumzqkiv kqbqhmva epwam
mvbmzxzqama mvtizom bpm uizsmb nwz Iumzqkiv kwuuwlqbqma.

Q kiv vwb bww abzwvotg zmkwuumvl bw bpm Kwvozmaa bpm xiaaiom wn awum ackp
mvijtqvo umiaczm ia bpm jqtt epqkp eia zmkwuumvlml jg bpm Amkzmbizg wn
Abibm qv pqa tmbbmz wn Lmkmujmz 13, 1911. Bpm wjrmkb wn bpm xzwxwaml
tmoqatibqwv qa, qv jzqmn, bw mvijtm bpm Mfmkcbqdm bw ixxtg, ia bpm kiam uig
zmycqzm, bw ivg wz itt kwuuwlqbqma, epmbpmz wz vwb wv bpm nzmm tqab nzwu i
kwcvbzg epqkp lqakzquqvibma ioiqvab bpm Cvqbml Abibma, i ozilcibml akitm wn
lcbqma cx bw bpm uifqucu Wn 25 xmz kmvb il ditwzmu xzwdqlml qv bpm xzmamvb
tie. Ntib bizqnna izm wcb wn libm. Vibqwva vw twvomz ikkwzl mycit bizqnn
bzmibumvb bw itt wbpmz vibqwva qzzmaxmkbqdm wn bpm bzmibumvb nzwu bpmu
zmkmqdml. Ackp i ntmfqjtm xwemz ib bpm kwuuivl wn bpm Mfmkcbqdm ewctl
amzdm bw uwlmzibm ivg cvnidwzijtm bmvlmvkqma wv bpm xizb wn bpwam kwcvbzqma
nzwu epqkp bpm quxwzbibqwva qvbw bpm Cvqbml Abibma izm acjabivbqittg
kwvnqvml bw izbqktma wv bpm nzmm tqab ia emtt ia wn bpm kwcvbzqma epqkp
nqvl i tckzibqdm uizsmb qv bpm Cvqbml Abibma nwz bpmqz xzwlckba cvlmz
mfqabqvo kcabwua zibma. Qb qa dmzg vmkmaaizg bpib bpm Iumzqkiv Owdmzvumvb
apwctl jm mycqxxml eqbp emixwva wn vmowbqibqwv ilixbml bw uwlmzv mkwvwuqk
kwvlqbqwva, qv wzlmz bpib em uig ib itt bquma jm qv i xwaqbqwv bw oiqv vwb
wvtg bmkpvqkittg rcab jcb ikbcittg mycqbijtm bzmibumvb nwz wcz bzilm, ivl
itaw nwz Iumzqkiv mvbmzxzqam ivl dmabml qvbmzmaba ijzwil.

JCAQVMAA AMKCZML BW WCZ KWCVBZG JG LQZMKB WNNQKQIT MNNWZB

Ia qttcabzibqvo bpm kwuumzkqit jmvmnqba wn bpm Vibqwv lmzqdml nzwu bpm vme
lqxtwuikg ivl qba mnnmkbqdmvmaa cxwv bpm uibmzqit ia emtt ia bpm uwzm qlmit
aqlm, qb uig jm zmuizsml bpib bpzwcop lqzmkb wnnqkqit mnnwzba itwvm bpmzm
pidm jmmv wjbiqvml qv bpm kwczam wn bpqa iluqvqabzibqwv, kwvbzikba nzwu
nwzmqov Owdmzvumvba qvdwtdqvo iv mfxmvlqbczm wn $50,000,000 qv bpm
nikbwzqma wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma. Kwvaqlmzibqwv wn bpqa nikb ivl awum
zmntmkbqwv cxwv bpm vmkmaaizg mnnmkba wn i akqmvbqnqk bizqnn agabmu ivl i
nwzmqov amzdqkm itmzb ivl mycqxxml bw kwwxmzibm eqbp bpm jcaqvmaa umv wn
Iumzqki kizzg bpm kwvdqkbqwv bpib bpm ozibqngqvo qvkzmiam qv bpm mfxwzb
bzilm wn bpqa kwcvbzg qa, qv acjabivbqit iuwcvb, lcm bw wcz quxzwdml
owdmzvumvbit umbpwla wn xzwbmkbqvo ivl abquctibqvo qb. Qb qa omzuivm bw
bpmam wjamzdibqwva bw zmuizs bpib qv bpm bew gmiza bpib pidm mtixaml aqvkm
bpm ackkmaanct vmowbqibqwv wn wcz vme bzmibg eqbp Rixiv, epqkp ib bpm bqum
ammuml bw xzmamvb aw uivg xzikbqkit lqnnqkctbqma, wcz mfxwzb bzilm bw bpib
kwcvbzg pia qvkzmiaml ib bpm zibm wn wdmz $1,000,000 i uwvbp. Wcz mfxwzba
bw Rixiv nwz bpm gmiz mvlml Rcvm 30, 1910, emzm $21,959,310, epqtm nwz bpm
gmiz mvlml Rcvm 30, 1912, bpm mfxwzba emzm $53,478,046, i vmb qvkzmiam qv
bpm aitm wn Iumzqkiv xzwlckba wn vmiztg 150 xmz kmvb.

AXMKQIT KTIQUA IZJQBZIBQWV EQBP OZMIB JZQBIQV

Cvlmz bpm axmkqit iozmmumvb mvbmzml qvbw jmbemmv bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl
Ozmib Jzqbiqv wv Icocab 18, 1910, nwz bpm izjqbzibqwv wn wcbabivlqvo
xmkcvqizg ktiqua, i akpmlctm wn ktiqua ivl bpm bmzua wn acjuqaaqwv pidm
jmmv iozmml cxwv jg bpm bew Owdmzvumvba, ivl bwombpmz eqbp bpm axmkqit
iozmmumvb emzm ixxzwdml jg bpm Amvibm wv Rctg 19, 1911, jcb qv ikkwzlivkm
eqbp bpm bmzua wn bpm iozmmumvb bpmg lql vwb ow qvbw mnnmkb cvbqt kwvnqzuml
jg bpm bew Owdmzvumvba jg iv mfkpivom wn vwbma, epqkp eia lwvm wv Ixzqt 26
tiab. Vmowbqibqwva, izm abqtt qv xzwozmaa nwz i acxxtmumvbit akpmlctm wn
ktiqua bw jm acjuqbbml bw izjqbzibqwv cvlmz bpqa iozmmumvb, ivl umivepqtm
bpm vmkmaaizg xzmxizibqwva nwz bpm izjqbzibqwv wn bpm ktiqua qvktclml qv
bpm nqzab akpmlctm pidm jmmv cvlmzbismv ivl izm jmqvo kizzqml wv cvlmz bpm
icbpwzqbg wn iv ixxzwxzqibqwv uilm nwz bpib xczxwam ib bpm tiab amaaqwv wn
Kwvozmaa. Qb qa ivbqkqxibml bpib bpm bew Owdmzvumvba eqtt jm xzmxizml bw
kitt cxwv bpm izjqbzibqwv bzqjcvit, mabijtqapml cvlmz bpqa iozmmumvb, bw
ummb ib Eiapqvobwv miztg vmfb gmiz bw xzwkmml eqbp bpqa izjqbzibqwv.

NCZ AMIT BZMIBG IVL VMML NWZ IUMVLUMVB WN WCZ ABIBCBM

Bpm ikb ilwxbml ib bpm tiab amaaqwv wn Kwvozmaa bw oqdm mnnmkb bw bpm
ncz-amit kwvdmvbqwv Wn Rctg 7, 1911, jmbemmv Ozmib Jzqbiqv, Rixiv, Zcaaqi,
ivl bpm Cvqbml Abibma xzwdqlml nwz bpm acaxmvaqwv wn itt tivl sqttqvo wn
amita wv bpm Xzqjqtwn Qativla nwz i xmzqwl wn nqdm gmiza, ivl iv wjrmkbqwv
pia vwe jmmv xzmamvbml bw bpqa xzwdqaqwv jg bpm wbpmz xizbqma qv qvbmzmab,
epqkp ziqama bpm qaacm ia bw epmbpmz wz vwb bpqa xzwpqjqbqwv wn tivl
sqttqvo qa qvkwvaqabmvb eqbp bpm axqzqb, qn vwb bpm tmbbmz, wn bpm bzmibg
abqxctibqwva. Bpm rcabqnqkibqwv wn mabijtqapqvo bpqa ktwam amiawv lmxmvla,
cvlmz bpm bmzua wn bpm kwvdmvbqwv, cxwv pwe niz, qn ib itt, qb qa vmkmaaizg
nwz xzwbmkbqvo ivl xzmamzdqvo bpm Iumzqkiv ncz-amit pmzl ivl nwz qvkzmiaqvo
qba vcujmz. Bpqa qa i ycmabqwv zmycqzqvo mfiuqvibqwv wn bpm xzmamvb
kwvlqbqwv wn bpm pmzl ivl bpm bzmibumvb epqkp qb vmmla qv bpm tqopb wn
ikbcit mfxmzqmvkm ivl akqmvbqnqk qvdmabqoibqwv. I kizmnct mfiuqvibqwv wn
bpm acjrmkb qa vwe jmqvo uilm, ivl bpqa Owdmzvumvb eqtt awwv jm qv
xwaamaaqwv wn i kwvaqlmzijtm iuwcvb wn vme qvnwzuibqwv ijwcb bpm Iumzqkiv
amit pmzl, epqkp pia jmmv amkczml lczqvo bpm xiab amiawv ivl eqtt jm wn
ozmib ditcm qv lmbmzuqvqvo bpqa ycmabqwv; ivl qn qb apwctl ixxmiz bpib
bpmzm qa ivg cvkmzbiqvbg ia bw bpm zmit vmkmaaqbg nwz quxwaqvo i ktwam
amiawv ib bpqa bqum Q apitt bism iv miztg wxxwzbcvqbg bw illzmaa i axmkqit
umaaiom bw Kwvozmaa wv bpqa acjrmkb, qv bpm jmtqmn bpib bpqa Owdmzvumvb
apwctl gqmtl wv bpqa xwqvb zibpmz bpiv oqdm bpm atqopbmab ozwcvl nwz bpm
kpizom bpib em pidm jmmv qv ivg eig zmuqaa qv wjamzdqvo wcz bzmibg
wjtqoibqwva.

NQVIT AMBBTMUMVB WN VWZBP IBTIVBQK NQAPMZQMA LQAXCBM

Wv bpm 20bp wn Rctg tiab iv iozmmumvb eia kwvktclml jmbemmv bpm Cvqbml
Abibma ivl Ozmib Jzqbiqv ilwxbqvo, eqbp kmzbiqv uwlqnqkibqwva, bpm zctma
ivl umbpwl wn xzwkmlczm zmkwuumvlml qv bpm ieizl zmvlmzml jg bpm Vwzbp
Ibtivbqk Kwiab Nqapmzqma Izjqbzibqwv Bzqjcvit wv Amxbmujmz 7, 1910, nwz bpm
ambbtmumvb pmzminbmz, qv ikkwzlivkm eqbp bpm xzqvkqxtma tiql lwev qv bpm
ieizl, wn ycmabqwva izqaqvo eqbp zmnmzmvkm bw bpm mfmzkqam wn bpm Iumzqkiv
nqapqvo tqjmzbqma cvlmz Izbqktm Q wn bpm bzmibg wn Wkbwjmz 20, 1818,
jmbemmv bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl Ozmib Jzqbiqv. Bpqa iozmmumvb zmkmqdml bpm
ixxzwdit wn bpm Amvibm wv Icocab Q ivl eia nwzuittg zibqnqml jg bpm bew
Owdmzvumvba wv Vwdmujmz 15 tiab. Bpm zctma ivl i umbpwl wn xzwkmlczm
mujwlqml qv bpm ieizl xzwdqlml nwz lmbmzuqvqvo jg iv quxizbqit bzqjcvit bpm
zmiawvijtmvmaa wn ivg vme nqapmzg zmoctibqwva wv bpm bzmibg kwiaba wn
Vmenwcvltivl ivl Kivili jmnwzm ackp zmoctibqwva kwctl jm mvnwzkml ioiqvab
Iumzqkiv nqapmzumv mfmzkqaqvo bpmqz bzmibg tqjmzbqma wv bpwam kwiaba, ivl
itaw nwz lmbmzuqvqvo bpm lmtquqbibqwv wn jiga wv ackp kwiaba uwzm bpiv 10
uqtma eqlm, qv ikkwzlivkm eqbp bpm lmnqvqbqwv ilwxbml jg bpm bzqjcvit wn
bpm umivqvo wn bpm ewzl "jiga" ia caml qv bpm bzmibg. Qv bpm acjamycmvb
vmowbqibqwva jmbemmv bpm bew Owdmzvumvba, cvlmzbismv nwz bpm xczxwam wn
oqdqvo xzikbqkit mnnmkb bw bpmam zctma ivl umbpwla wn xzwkmlczm, qb eia
nwcvl bpib kmzbiqv uwlqnqkibqwva bpmzmqv emzm lmaqzijtm nzwu bpm xwqvb wn
dqme wn jwbp Owdmzvumvba, ivl bpmam vmowbqibqwva pidm nqvittg zmactbml qv
bpm iozmmumvb ijwdm umvbqwvml jg epqkp bpm ieizl zmkwuumvlibqwva ia
uwlqnqml jg ucbcit kwvamvb wn bpm bew Owdmzvumvba izm nqvittg ilwxbml ivl
uilm mnnmkbqdm, bpca jzqvoqvo bpqa kmvbczg-wtl kwvbzwdmzag bw i nqvit
kwvktcaqwv, epqkp qa mycittg jmvmnqkqit ivl aibqanikbwzg bw jwbp
Owdmzvumvba.

QUXMZQIT DITTMG IVL UMFQKW

Qv wzlmz bw uism xwaaqjtm bpm uwzm mnnmkbqdm xmznwzuivkm wn bpm ewzs
vmkmaaizg nwz bpm kwvnqvmumvb qv bpmqz xzmamvb kpivvmt wn bpm eibmza wn bpm
twemz Kwtwzilw Zqdmz, ivl bpca bw xzwbmkb bpm xmwxtm wn bpm Quxmzqit
Dittmg, ia emtt ia qv wzlmz bw zmikp eqbp bpm Owdmzvumvb wn Umfqkw iv
cvlmzabivlqvo zmoizlqvo bpm lqabzqjcbqwv wn bpm eibmza wn bpm Kwtwzilw
Zqdmz, qv epqkp jwbp Owdmzvumvba izm uckp qvbmzmabml, vmowbqibqwva izm
owqvo nwzeizl eqbp i dqme bw bpm mabijtqapumvb wn i xzmtquqvizg Kwtwzilw
Zqdmz kwuuqaaqwv, epqkp apitt pidm bpm xwemza vmkmaaizg bw mvijtm qb bw lw
bpm vmmlnct ewzs ivl eqbp icbpwzqbg bw abclg bpm ycmabqwv wn bpm mycqbijtm
lqabzqjcbqwv wn bpm eibmza. Bpmzm qa mdmzg zmiawv bw jmtqmdm bpib iv
cvlmzabivlqvo cxwv bpqa xwqvb eqtt jm zmikpml ivl bpib iv iozmmumvb eqtt jm
aqovml qv bpm vmiz ncbczm.

KPIUQHIT LQAXCBM

Qv bpm qvbmzmab wn bpm xmwxtm ivl kqbg wn Mt Xiaw bpqa Owdmzvumvb pia jmmv
iaaqlcwca qv qba mnnwzba bw jzqvo bw iv miztg ambbtmumvb bpm twvo-abivlqvo
Kpiuqhit lqaxcbm eqbp Umfqkw. Uckp pia jmmv ikkwuxtqapml, ivl epqtm bpm
nqvit awtcbqwv wn bpm lqaxcbm qa vwb quumlqibm, bpm nidwzijtm ibbqbclm
tibmtg iaacuml jg bpm Umfqkiv Owdmzvumvb mvkwczioma bpm pwxm bpib bpqa
bzwcjtmawum ycmabqwv eqtt jm aibqanikbwzqtg ivl lmnqvqbqdmtg ambbtml ib iv
miztg lig.

QVBMZVIBQWVIT KWUUQAAQWV WN RCZQABA

Qv xczacivkm wn bpm kwvdmvbqwv wn Icocab 23, 1906, aqovml ib bpm Bpqzl Xiv
Iumzqkiv Kwvnmzmvkm, pmtl ib Zqw lm Rivmqzw, bpm Qvbmzvibqwvit Kwuuqaaqwv
wn rczqaba umb ib bpib kixqbit lczqvo bpm uwvbp wn tiab Rcvm. Ib bpqa
ummbqvo 16 Iumzqkiv Zmxcjtqka emzm zmxzmamvbml, qvktclqvo bpm Cvqbml
Abibma, ivl kwuxzmpmvaqdm xtiva nwz bpm ncbczm ewzs wn bpm kwuuqaaqwv emzm
ilwxbml. Ib bpm vmfb ummbqvo nqfml nwz Rcvm, 1914, kwuuqbbmma itzmilg
ixxwqvbml izm qvabzckbml bw Q zmxwzb zmoizlqvo bwxqka iaaqovml bw bpmu.

WXQCU KWVNMZMVKM-CVNWZBCVIBM NIQTCZM WN WCZ OWDMZVUMVB BW MVIKB ZMKWUUMVLML
TMOQATIBQWV

Qv ug umaaiom wv nwzmqov zmtibqwva kwuucvqkibml bw bpm bew Pwcama wn
Kwvozmaa Lmkmujmz 7, 1911, Q kittml maxmkqit ibbmvbqwv bw bpm iaamujtqvo wn
bpm Wxqcu Kwvnmzmvkm ib Bpm Piocm, bw bpm nikb bpib bpib kwvnmzmvkm eia bw
zmdqme itt xmzbqvmvb ucvqkqxit tiea zmtibqvo bw bpm wxqcu ivl ittqml mdqta,
ivl kmzbiqvtg itt qvbmzvibqwvit zctma zmoizlqvo bpmam mdqta, ivl bw bpm
-nikb bpib qb ammuml bw um uwab maamvbqit bpib bpm Kwvozmaa apwctl bism
quumlqibm ikbqwv wv bpm ivbq-vizkwbqk tmoqatibqwv jmnwzm bpm Kwvozmaa, bw
epqkp Q pil xzmdqwcatg kittml ibbmvbqwv jg i axmkqit umaaiom.

Bpm qvbmzvibqwvit kwvdmvbqwv ilwxbml jg bpm kwvnmzmvkm kwvnwzua ituwab
mvbqzmtg bw bpm xzqvkqxtma kwvbiqvml qv bpm xzwxwaml ivbq-vizkwbqk
tmoqatibqwv epqkp pia jmmv jmnwzm bpm tiab bew Kwvozmaama. Qb eia uwab
cvnwzbcvibm bpib bpqa Owdmzvumvb, pidqvo bismv bpm qvqbqibqdm qv bpm
qvbmzvibqwvit ikbqwv epqkp mdmvbcibml qv bpm quxwzbivb qvbmzvibqwvit wxqcu
kwvdmvbqwv, niqtml bw lw qba apizm qv bpm ozmib ewzs jg vmotmkbqvo bw xiaa
bpm vmkmaaizg tmoqatibqwv bw kwzzmkb bpm lmxtwzijtm vizkwbqk mdqta qv bpm
Cvqbml Abibma ia emtt ia bw zmlmmu qvbmzvibqwvit xtmloma cxwv epqkp qb
mvbmzml jg dqzbcm wn bpm ijwdm-umvbqwvml kwvdmvbqwv. Bpm Kwvozmaa ib qba
xzmamvb amaaqwv apwctl mvikb qvbw tie bpwam jqtta vwe jmnwzm qb epqkp pidm
jmmv aw kizmncttg lziev cx qv kwttijwzibqwv jmbemmv bpm Lmxizbumvb wn Abibm
ivl bpm wbpmz mfmkcbqdm lmxizbumvba, ivl epqkp pidm jmpqvl bpmu vwb wvtg
bpm uwzit amvbqumvb wn bpm kwcvbzg, jcb bpm xzikbqkit acxxwzb wn itt bpm
tmoqbquibm bzilm qvbmzmaba tqsmtg bw jm innmkbml. Aqvkm bpm qvbmzvibqwvit
kwvdmvbqwv eia aqovml, ilpmzmvkm bw qb pia jmmv uilm jg amdmzit Mczwxmiv
Abibma vwb zmxzmamvbml ib bpm kwvnmzmvkm ib Bpm Piocm ivl itaw jg amdmvbmmv
Tibqv-Iumzqkiv Zmxcjtqka.

MCZWXM IVL BPM VMIZ MIAB

Bpm eiz jmbemmv Qbitg ivl Bczsmg kium bw i ktwam qv Wkbwjmz tiab jg bpm
aqovibczm wn i bzmibg wn xmikm, acjamycmvbtg bw epqkp bpm Wbbwuiv Muxqzm
zmvwcvkml awdmzmqovbg wdmz Kgzmviqki ivl Bzqxwtqbivqi qv nidwz wn Qbitg.
Lczqvo bpm xiab gmiz bpm Vmiz Miab pia cvnwzbcvibmtg jmmv bpm bpmibmz wn
kwvabivb pwabqtqbqma. Ituwab aquctbivmwcatg eqbp bpm kwvktcaqwv wn xmikm
jmbemmv Qbitg ivl Bczsmg ivl bpmqz izzqdit ib iv ilrcabumvb wn bpm kwuxtmf
ycmabqwva ib qaacm jmbemmv bpmu, eiz jzwsm wcb jmbemmv Bczsmg wv bpm wvm
pivl ivl Jctoizqi, Ozmmkm, Uwvbmvmozw, ivl Amzdqi wv bpm wbpmz. Bpm Cvqbml
Abibma pia pixxqtg jmmv qvdwtdml vmqbpmz lqzmkbtg vwz qvlqzmkbtg eqbp bpm
kicama wz ycmabqwva qvkqlmvb bw ivg wn bpmam pwabqtqbqma ivl pia uiqvbiqvml
qv zmoizl bw bpmu iv ibbqbclm wn ijawtcbm vmcbzitqbg ivl wn kwuxtmbm
xwtqbqkit lqaqvbmzmabmlvmaa. Qv bpm amkwvl eiz qv epqkp bpm Wbbwuiv Muxqzm
pia jmmv mvoioml bpm twaa wn tqnm ivl bpm kwvamycmvb lqabzmaa wv jwbp aqlma
pidm jmmv ixxittqvo, ivl bpm Cvqbml Abibma pia nwcvl wkkiaqwv, qv bpm
qvbmzmab wn pcuivqbg, bw kizzg wcb bpm kpizqbijtm lmaqzma wn bpm Iumzqkiv
xmwxtm, bw mfbmvl i umiaczm wn zmtqmn bw bpm acnnmzmza wv mqbpmz aqlm
bpzwcop bpm quxizbqit umlqcu wn bpm Zml Kzwaa. Jmgwvl bpqa bpm kpqmn kizm
wn bpm Owdmzvumvb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma pia jmmv bw uism lcm xzwdqaqwv nwz
bpm xzwbmkbqwv wn qba vibqwvit zmaqlmvb qv jmttqomzmvb bmzzqbwzg. Qv bpm
mfmzkqam wn ug lcbg qv bpqa uibbmz Q pidm lqaxibkpml bw Bczsqap eibmza i
axmkqit-amzdqkm aycilzwv, kwvaqabqvo wn bew izuwzml kzcqamza, qv wzlmz bpib
bpqa Owdmzvumvb uig qn vmml jm jmiz qba xizb qv ackp umiaczma ia qb uig jm
vmkmaaizg nwz bpm qvbmzmabml vibqwva bw ilwxb nwz bpm ainmocizlqvo wn
nwzmqov tqdma ivl xzwxmzbg qv bpm Wbbwuiv Muxqzm qv bpm mdmvb bpib i
livomzwca aqbcibqwv apwctl lmdmtwx. Qv bpm umivepqtm bpm amdmzit qvbmzmabml
Mczwxmiv xwemza pidm xzwuqaml bw mfbmvl bw Iumzqkiv kqbqhmva bpm jmvmnqb wn
ackp xzmkicbqwvizg wz xzwbmkbqdm umiaczma ia bpmg uqopb ilwxb, qv bpm aium
uivvmz qv epqkp qb pia jmmv bpm xzikbqkm wn bpqa Owdmzvumvb bw mfbmvl qba
xzwbmkbqwv bw itt nwzmqov zmaqlmvba qv bpwam kwcvbzqma wn bpm Emabmzv
Pmuqaxpmzm qv epqkp qb pia nzwu bqum bw bqum jmmv bpm bias wn bpm Cvqbml
Abibma bw ikb qv bpm qvbmzmab wn xmikm ivl owwl wzlmz. Bpm miztg ixxmizivkm
wn i tizom ntmmb wn Mczwxmiv eizapqxa qv bpm Jwaxpwzca ixxizmvbtg iaaczml
bpm xzwbmkbqwv wn nwzmqovmza qv bpib ycizbmz, epmzm bpm xzmamvkm wn bpm
Iumzqkiv abibqwvviqzm bpm C. A. A. Akwzxqwv acnnqkml, bqvlmz bpm
kqzkcuabivkma, bw zmxzmamvb bpm Cvqbml Abibma. Wcz kzcqamza emzm bpca tmnb
nzmm bw ikb qn vmml jm itwvo bpm Umlqbmzzivmiv kwiaba apwctl ivg cvmfxmkbml
kwvbqvomvkg izqam innmkbqvo bpm vcumzwca Iumzqkiv qvbmzmaba qv bpm
vmqopjwzpwwl wn Augzvi ivl Jmqzcb.

AXQBHJMZOMV

Bpm ozmib xzmxwvlmzivkm wn Iumzqkiv uibmzqit qvbmzmaba qv bpm acj-izkbqk
qativl wn Axqbhjmzomv, epqkp pia iteiga jmmv zmoizlml xwtqbqkittg ia "vw
uiv'a tivl," quxmta bpqa Owdmzvumvb bw i kwvbqvcml ivl tqdmtg qvbmzmab qv
bpm qvbmzvibqwvit lqaxwaqbqwva bw jm uilm nwz bpm xwtqbqkit owdmzvivkm ivl
iluqvqabzibqwv wn bpib zmoqwv. Bpm kwvntqkb wn kmzbiqv ktiqua wn Iumzqkiv
kqbqhmva ivl wbpmza qa qv i niqz eig bw ilrcabumvb, epqtm bpm ambbtmumvb wn
uibbmza wn iluqvqabzibqwv, epmbpmz jg qvbmzvibqwvit kwvnmzmvkm wn bpm
qvbmzmabml xwemza wz wbpmzeqam, kwvbqvcma bw jm bpm acjrmkb wn mfkpivom wn
dqmea jmbemmv bpm Owdmzvumvba kwvkmzvml.

TQJMZQI

Ia i zmactb wn bpm mnnwzba wn bpqa Owdmzvumvb bw xtikm bpm Owdmzvumvb wn
Tqjmzqi qv xwaqbqwv bw xig qba wcbabivlqvo qvlmjbmlvmaa ivl bw uiqvbiqv i
abijtm ivl mnnqkqmvb owdmzvumvb, vmowbqibqwva nwz i twiv wn $1,700,000 pidm
jmmv ackkmaancttg kwvktclml, ivl qb qa ivbqkqxibml bpib bpm xigumvb wn bpm
wtl twiv ivl bpm qaacivkm wn bpm jwvla wn bpm 1912 twiv nwz bpm
zmpijqtqbibqwv wn bpm nqvivkma wn Tqjmzqi eqtt nwttwe ib iv miztg libm,
epmv bpm vme zmkmqdmzapqx eqtt ow qvbw ikbqdm wxmzibqwv. Bpm vme
zmkmqdmzapqx eqtt kwvaqab wn i omvmzit zmkmqdmz wn kcabwua lmaqovibml jg
bpm Owdmzvumvb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl bpzmm zmkmqdmza wn kcabwua
lmaqovibml jg bpm Owdmzvumvba wn Omzuivg, Nzivkm, ivl Ozmib Jzqbiqv, epqkp
kwcvbzqma pidm kwuumzkqit qvbmzmaba qv bpm Zmxcjtqk wn Tqjmzqi.

Qv kizzgqvo wcb bpm cvlmzabivlqvo jmbemmv bpm Owdmzvumvb wn Tqjmzqi ivl
bpib wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma, ivl qv nctnqttqvo bpm bmzua wn bpm iozmmumvb
jmbemmv bpm nwzumz Owdmzvumvb ivl bpm Iumzqkiv jivsmza, bpzmm kwuxmbmvb
mf-izug wnnqkmza izm vwe mnnmkbqdmtg muxtwgml jg bpm Tqjmzqiv Owdmzvumvb qv
zmwzoivqhqvo bpm xwtqkm nwzkm wn bpm Zmxcjtqk, vwb wvtg bw smmx qv wzlmz
bpm vibqdm bzqjma qv bpm pqvbmztivl jcb bw amzdm ia i vmkmaaizg xwtqkm
nwzkm itwvo bpm nzwvbqmz. Qb qa pwxml bpib bpmam umiaczma eqtt iaaczm vwb
wvtg bpm kwvbqvcml mfqabmvkm jcb bpm xzwaxmzqbg ivl emtnizm wn bpm Zmxcjtqk
wn Tqjmzqi. Tqjmzqi xwaamaama nmzbqtqbg wn awqt ivl vibczit zmawczkma,
epqkp apwctl qvaczm bw qba xmwxtm i zmiawvijtm xzwaxmzqbg. Qb eia bpm lcbg
wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma bw iaaqab bpm Zmxcjtqk wn Tqjmzqi qv ikkwzlivkm eqbp
wcz pqabwzqkit qvbmzmab ivl uwzit ocizlqivapqx wn i kwuucvqbg nwcvlml jg
Iumzqkiv kqbqhmva, ia qb eia itaw bpm lcbg wn bpm Iumzqkiv Owdmzvumvb bw
ibbmuxb bw iaaczm xmzuivmvkm bw i kwcvbzg wn uckp amvbqumvbit ivl xmzpixa
ncbczm zmit qvbmzmab bw i tizom jwlg wn wcz kqbqhmva.

UWZWKKW

Bpm tmoibqwv ib Bivoqmz qa vwe qv kpizom wn wcz kwvact omvmzit, epw qa
ikbqvo ia kpizom l'inniqzma, ia emtt ia kizqvo nwz wcz kwuumzkqit qvbmzmaba
qv bpib kwcvbzg. Qv dqme wn bpm nikb bpib uivg wn bpm nwzmqov xwemza izm
vwe zmxzmamvbml jg kpizoma l'inniqzma qb pia vwb jmmv lmmuml vmkmaaizg bw
ixxwqvb ib bpm xzmamvb bqum i uqvqabmz bw nqtt i dikivkg wkkczzqvo qv bpib
xwab.

BPM NIZ MIAB

Bpm xwtqbqkit lqabczjivkma qv Kpqvi qv bpm icbcuv ivl eqvbmz wn 1911-12
zmactbml qv bpm ijlqkibqwv wn bpm Uivkpc zctmza wv Nmjzcizg 12, nwttweml jg
bpm nwzuibqwv wn i xzwdqaqwvit zmxcjtqkiv owdmzvumvb muxwemzml bw kwvlckb
bpm inniqza wn bpm vibqwv cvbqt i xmzuivmvb owdmzvumvb uqopb jm zmoctiztg
mabijtqapml. Bpm vibczit aguxibpg wn bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm eqbp bpm
iaacuxbqwv wn zmxcjtqkiv xzqvkqxtma jg bpm Kpqvmam xmwxtm eia ixxzwxzqibmtg
mfxzmaaml qv i kwvkczzmvb zmawtcbqwv wn Kwvozmaa wv Ixzqt 17, 1912. I
kwvabqbcmvb iaamujtg, kwuxwaml wn zmxzmamvbibqdma lctg kpwamv jg bpm xmwxtm
wn Kpqvi qv bpm mtmkbqwva bpib izm vwe jmqvo pmtl, pia jmmv kittml bw ummb
qv Rivcizg vmfb bw ilwxb i xmzuivmvb kwvabqbcbqwv ivl wzoivqhm bpm
Owdmzvumvb wn bpm viakmvb Zmxcjtqk. Lczqvo bpm nwzuibqdm kwvabqbcbqwvit
abiom ivl xmvlqvo lmnqvqbm ikbqwv jg bpm iaamujtg, ia mfxzmaaqdm wn bpm
xwxctiz eqtt, ivl bpm pwxml-nwz mabijtqapumvb wn i abijtm zmxcjtqkiv nwzu
wn owdmzvumvb, kixijtm wn nctnqttqvo qba qvbmzvibqwvit wjtqoibqwva, bpm
Cvqbml Abibma qa, ikkwzlqvo bw xzmkmlmvb, uiqvbiqvqvo nctt ivl nzqmvltg lm
nikbw zmtibqwva eqbp bpm xzwdqaqwvit Owdmzvumvb.

Bpm vme kwvlqbqwv wn inniqza bpca kzmibml pia xzmamvbml uivg amzqwca ivl
kwuxtqkibml xzwjtmua, jwbp wn qvbmzvit zmpijqtqbibqwv ivl wn qvbmzvibqwvit
zmtibqwva, epwam awtcbqwv qb eia zmitqhml ewctl vmkmaaizqtg zmycqzm uckp
bqum ivl xibqmvkm. Nzwu bpm jmoqvvqvo wn bpm cxpmidit tiab icbcuv qb eia
nmtb jg bpm Cvqbml Abibma, qv kwuuwv eqbp bpm wbpmz xwemza pidqvo tizom
qvbmzmaba qv Kpqvi, bpib qvlmxmvlmvb ikbqwv jg bpm nwzmqov Owdmzvumvba qv
bpmqz wev qvlqdqlcit qvbmzmaba ewctl ill nczbpmz kwvncaqwv bw i aqbcibqwv
itzmilg kwuxtqkibml. I xwtqkg wn qvbmzvibqwvit kwwxmzibqwv eia ikkwzlqvotg
ilwxbml qv iv cvlmzabivlqvo, zmikpml miztg qv bpm lqabczjivkma, bw ikb
bwombpmz nwz bpm xzwbmkbqwv wn bpm tqdma ivl xzwxmzbg wn nwzmqovmza qn
umvikml, bw uiqvbiqv iv ibbqbclm wn abzqkb quxizbqitqbg ia jmbemmv bpm
kwvbmvlqvo nikbqwva, ivl bw ijabiqv nzwu ivg mvlmidwz bw qvntcmvkm bpm
Kpqvmam qv bpmqz wzoivqhibqwv wn i vme nwzu wn owdmzvumvb. Qv dqme wn bpm
amzqwcavmaa wn bpm lqabczjivkma ivl bpmqz omvmzit kpizikbmz, bpm Iumzqkiv
uqvqabmz ib Xmsqvo eia qvabzckbml ib pqa lqakzmbqwv bw ildqam wcz vibqwvita
qv bpm innmkbml lqabzqkba bw kwvkmvbzibm ib ackp kmvbmza ia emzm miaqtg
ikkmaaqjtm bw nwzmqov bzwwxa wz umv wn eiz. Vqvmbmmv wn wcz vidit dmaamta
emzm abibqwvml ib dizqwca Kpqvmam xwzba, ivl wbpmz umiaczma emzm xzwuxbtg
bismv nwz bpm ilmycibm xzwbmkbqwv wn Iumzqkiv qvbmzmaba.

Qb eia nczbpmz ucbcittg iozmml, qv bpm pwxm wn piabmvqvo iv mvl bw
pwabqtqbqma, bpib vwvm wn bpm qvbmzmabml xwemza ewctl ixxzwdm bpm uisqvo wn
twiva jg qba vibqwvita bw mqbpmz aqlm. Ia awwv, pwemdmz, ia i cvqbml
xzwdqaqwvit Owdmzvumvb wn Kpqvi eia iaaczml, bpm Cvqbml Abibma rwqvml qv i
nidwzijtm kwvaqlmzibqwv wn bpib Owdmzvumvb'a zmycmab nwz ildivkma vmmlml
nwz quumlqibm iluqvqabzibqdm vmkmaaqbqma ivl tibmz nwz i twiv bw mnnmkb i
xmzuivmvb vibqwvit zmwzoivqhibqwv. Bpm qvbmzmabml Owdmzvumvba pil itzmilg,
jg kwuuwv kwvamvb, ilwxbml, qv zmaxmkb bw bpm xczxwama, mfxmvlqbczm, ivl
amkczqbg wn ivg twiva bw Kpqvi uilm jg bpmqz vibqwvita, kmzbiqv kwvlqbqwva
epqkp emzm pmtl bw jm maamvbqit, vwb wvtg bw amkczm zmiawvijtm xzwbmkbqwv
nwz bpm nwzmqov qvdmabwza, jcb itaw bw ainmocizl ivl abzmvobpmv Kpqvi'a
kzmlqb jg lqakwczioqvo qvlqakzquqvibm jwzzweqvo ivl jg qvaczqvo bpm
ixxtqkibqwv wn bpm ncvla bweizl bpm mabijtqapumvb wn bpm abijtm ivl
mnnmkbqdm owdmzvumvb vmkmaaizg bw Kpqvi'a emtnizm. Qv Rcvm tiab
zmxzmamvbibqdm jivsqvo ozwcxa wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma, Nzivkm, Omzuivg, Ozmib
Jzqbiqv, Rixiv, ivl Zcaaqi nwzuctibml, eqbp bpm omvmzit aivkbqwv wn bpmqz
zmaxmkbqdm Owdmzvumvba, bpm ocizivbqma bpib ewctl jm mfxmkbml qv zmtibqwv
bw bpm mfxmvlqbczm ivl amkczqbg wn bpm tizom zmwzoivqhibqwv twiv lmaqzml jg
Kpqvi, epqkp, pwemdmz, pidm bpca niz xzwdml cvikkmxbijtm bw bpm xzwdqaqwvit
Owdmzvumvb.

AXMKQIT UQAAQWV WN KWVLWTMVKM BW RIXIV

Qv Icocab tiab Q ikkzmlqbml bpm Amkzmbizg wn Abibm ia axmkqit iujiaailwz bw
Rixiv, kpizoml eqbp bpm uqaaqwv wn jmizqvo bw bpm quxmzqit niuqtg, bpm
Owdmzvumvb, ivl bpm xmwxtm wn bpib Muxqzm bpm aguxibpmbqk umaaiom wn bpm
Iumzqkiv Kwuuwvemitbp wqt bpm ail wkkiaqwv wn bpm lmibp wn Pqa Uirmabg bpm
Muxmzwz Ucbacpqbw, epwam twvo ivl jmvmdwtmvb zmqov eia bpm ozmibmz xizb wn
Rixiv'a uwlmzv pqabwzg. Bpm sqvltg zmkmxbqwv mdmzgepmzm ikkwzlml bw
Amkzmbizg Svwf apweml bpib pqa uqaaqwv eia lmmxtg ixxzmkqibml jg bpm
Rixivmam vibqwv ivl muxpiaqhml abzwvotg bpm nzqmvltg zmtibqwva bpib pidm
nwz aw uivg gmiza mfqabml jmbemmv bpm bew xmwxtma.

AWCBP IUMZQKI

Wcz zmtibqwva eqbp bpm Izomvbqvm Zmxcjtqk izm uwab nzqmvltg ivl kwzlqit.
Aw, itaw, izm wcz zmtibqwva eqbp Jzihqt, epwam Owdmzvumvb pia ikkmxbml bpm
qvdqbibqwv wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma bw amvl bew izug wnnqkmza bw abclg ib bpm
Kwiab Izbqttmzg Akpwwt ib Nwzb Uwvzwm. Bpm twvo-abivlqvo Itawx ktiqu, epqkp
pil jmmv bpm wvtg pqvlzivkm bw bpm pmitbpg ozwebp wn bpm uwab nzqmvltg
zmtibqwva jmbemmv bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl Kpqtm, pidqvo jmmv mtquqvibml
bpzwcop bpm acjuqaaqwv wn bpm ycmabqwv bw Pqa Jzqbivvqk Uirmabg Sqvo Omwzom
D ia "iuqijtm kwuxwaqbmcz," qb qa i kicam wn uckp ozibqnqkibqwv bw um bpib
wcz zmtibqwva eqbp Kpqtm izm vwe mabijtqapml cxwv i nqzu jiaqa wn ozweqvo
nzqmvlapqx. Bpm Kpqtmiv Owdmzvumvb pia xtikml iv wnnqkmz wn bpm Cvqbml
Abibma Kwiab Izbqttmzg qv kpizom wn bpm Kpqtmiv Kwiab Izbqttmzg Akpwwt, ivl
pia apwev ixxzmkqibqwv wn Iumzqkiv umbpwla jg kwvnqlqvo bw iv Iumzqkiv nqzu
quxwzbivb ewzs nwz bpm Kpqtmiv kwiab lmnmvama.

Tiab gmiz i zmdwtcbqwv ioiqvab bpm mabijtqapml Owdmzvumvb wn Mkcilwz jzwsm
wcb ib bpm xzqvkqxit xwzb wn bpib Zmxcjtqk. Xzmdqwca bw bpqa wkkczzmvkm bpm
kpqmn Iumzqkiv qvbmzmab qv Mkcilwz, zmxzmamvbml jg bpm Ocigiycqt &iux; Ycqbw
Ziqteig Kw., qvkwzxwzibml qv bpm Cvqbml Abibma, pil zmvlmzml mfbmvaqdm
bzivaxwzbibqwv ivl wbpmz amzdqkma wv ikkwcvb bw bpm Mkcilwzqiv Owdmzvumvb,
bpm iuwcvb wn epqkp ziv qvbw i acu epqkp eia abmilqtg qvkzmiaqvo ivl epqkp
bpm Mkcilwzqiv Owdmzvumvb pil uilm vw xzwdqaqwv bw xig, bpmzmjg bpzmibmvqvo
bw kzcap wcb bpm dmzg mfqabmvkm wn bpqa Iumzqkiv mvbmzxzqam. Epmv
bzivycqttqbg pil jmmv zmabwzml bw Mkcilwz ia i zmactb wn bpm bzqcuxpivb
xzwozmaa wn bpm Owdmzvumvb nwzkma nzwu Ycqbw, bpqa Owdmzvumvb qvbmzxwaml
qba owwl wnnqkma bw bpm mvl bpib bpm Iumzqkiv qvbmzmaba qv Mkcilwz uqopb jm
aidml nzwu kwuxtmbm mfbqvkbqwv. Ia i xizb wn bpm izzivomumvb epqkp eia
zmikpml jmbemmv bpm xizbqma, ivl ib bpm zmycmab wn bpm Owdmzvumvb wn
Mkcilwz, Q pidm kwvamvbml bw vium iv izjqbzibwz, epw, ikbqvo cvlmz bpm
bmzua wn bpm ziqtzwil kwvbzikb, eqbp iv izjqbzibwz viuml jg bpm Mkcilwzqiv
Owdmzvumvb, eqtt xiaa cxwv bpm ktiqua bpib pidm izqamv aqvkm bpm
izzivomumvb zmikpml bpzwcop bpm ikbqwv wn i aquqtiz izjqbzit bzqjcvit qv
1908.

Qv xczacivkm wn i zmycmab uilm awum bqum iow jg bpm Mkcilwzqiv Owdmzvumvb,
bpm Lmxizbumvb wn Abibm pia oqdmv uckp ibbmvbqwv bw bpm xzwjtmu wn bpm
xzwxmz aivqbibqwv wn Ocigiycqt. Ia i zmactb i lmbiqt wn wnnqkmza wn bpm
Kivit Hwvm eqtt jm amvb bw Ocigiycqt bw zmkwuumvl umiaczma bpib eqtt tmil
bw bpm kwuxtmbm xmzuivmvb aivqbibqwv wn bpqa xtiocm ivl nmdmz qvnmkbml
zmoqwv wn bpib Zmxcjtqk, epqkp pia nwz aw twvo kwvabqbcbml i umvikm bw
pmitbp kwvlqbqwva wv bpm Kivit Hwvm. Qb qa pwxml bpib bpm zmxwzb epqkp bpqa
uqaaqwv eqtt nczvqap eqtt xwqvb wcb i eig epmzmjg bpm uwlqkcu wn iaaqabivkm
epqkp bpm Cvqbml Abibma uig xzwxmztg tmvl bpm Mkcilwzqiv Owdmzvumvb uig jm
uilm mnnmkbqdm qv zqllqvo bpm emab kwiab wn Awcbp Iumzqki wn i nwkca wn
kwvbioqwv bw bpm ncbczm kwuumzkqit kczzmvb xiaaqvo bpzwcop bpm Xiviui
Kivit.

Qv bpm uibbmz wn bpm ktiqu wn Rwpv Kmtmabqvm Tivlzmic ioiqvab bpm
Owdmzvumvb wn Xmzc, epqkp ktiqu izqama wcb wn kmzbiqv kwvbzikba ivl
bzivaikbqwva qv kwvvmkbqwv eqbp bpm lqakwdmzg ivl mfxtwqbibqwv wn ocivw,
ivl epqkp pia jmmv cvlmz lqakcaaqwv jmbemmv bpm bew Owdmzvumvba aqvkm 1874,
Q iu otil bw zmxwzb bpib ia bpm zmactb wn xzwtwvoml vmowbqibqwva, epqkp
pidm jmmv kpizikbmzqhml jg bpm cbuwab nzqmvltqvmaa ivl owwl eqtt wv jwbp
aqlma, bpm Lmxizbumvb wn Abibm pia ackkmmlml qv amkczqvo bpm kwvamvb wn
Xmzc bw bpm izjqbzibqwv wn bpm ktiqu, ivl bpib bpm vmowbqibqwva ibbmvlqvo
bpm lzinbqvo ivl aqovibczm wn i xzwbwkwt acjuqbbqvo bpm ktiqu bw iv
izjqbzit bzqjcvit izm xzwkmmlqvo eqbp lcm kmtmzqbg.

Iv wnnqkmz wn bpm Iumzqkiv Xcjtqk Pmitbp Amzdqkm ivl iv Iumzqkiv aivqbizg
mvoqvmmz izm vwe wv bpm eig bw Qycqbwa, qv bpm muxtwg wn bpm Xmzcdqiv
Owdmzvumvb, bw bism kpizom wn bpm aivqbibqwv wn bpib zqdmz xwzb. Xmzc qa
jcqtlqvo i vcujmz wn acjuizqvma qv bpqa kwcvbzg, ivl kwvbqvcma bw apwe
mdmzg lmaqzm bw pidm Iumzqkiv kixqbit qvdmabml qv bpm Zmxcjtqk.

Qv Rctg bpm Cvqbml Abibma amvb cvlmzozilcibm lmtmoibma bw bpm Bpqzl
Qvbmzvibqwvit Abclmvba Kwvozmaa pmtl ib Tqui, Iumzqkiv abclmvba pidqvo jmmv
nwz bpm nqzab bqum qvdqbml bw wvm wn bpmam ummbqvoa.

Bpm Zmxcjtqk wn Czcocig pia apwev qba ixxzmkqibqwv wn Iumzqkiv iozqkctbczit
ivl wbpmz umbpwla jg amvlqvo i tizom kwuuqaaqwv bw bpqa kwcvbzg ivl jg
muxtwgqvo uivg Iumzqkiv mfxmzba bw iaaqab qv jcqtlqvo cx iozqkctbczit ivl
ittqml qvlcabzqma qv Czcocig.

Dmvmhcmti qa xigqvo wnn bpm tiab wn bpm ktiqua bpm ambbtmumvb wn epqkp eia
xzwdqlml nwz jg bpm Eiapqvobwv xzwbwkwta, qvktclqvo bpwam wn Iumzqkiv
kqbqhmva. Wcz zmtibqwva eqbp Dmvmhcmti izm uwab kwzlqit, ivl bpm bzilm wn
bpib Zmxcjtqk eqbp bpm Cvqbml Abibma qa vwe ozmibmz bpiv eqbp ivg wbpmz
kwcvbzg.

KMVBZIT IUMZQKI IVL BPM KIZQJJMIV

Lczqvo bpm xiab acuumz bpm zmdwtcbqwv ioiqvab bpm iluqvqabzibqwv epqkp
nwttweml bpm iaaiaaqvibqwv wn Xzmaqlmvb Kikmzma i gmiz iow tiab Vwdmujmz
jzwcopb bpm Lwuqvqkiv Zmxcjtqk bw bpm dmzom wn iluqvqabzibqdm kpiwa,
eqbpwcb wnnmzqvo ivg ocizivbqma wn mdmvbcit abijqtqbg qv bpm ctbquibm
ackkmaa wn mqbpmz xizbg. Qv xczacivkm wn bpm bzmibg zmtibqwva wn bpm Cvqbml
Abibma eqbp bpm Lwuqvqkiv Zmxcjtqk, epqkp emzm bpzmibmvml jg bpm vmkmaaqbg
wn acaxmvlqvo bpm wxmzibqwv cvlmz Iumzqkiv iluqvqabzibqwv wn bpm
kcabwupwcama wv bpm Piqbqiv nzwvbqmz, qb eia nwcvl vmkmaaizg bw lqaxibkp
axmkqit kwuuqaaqwvmza bw bpm qativl bw zmmabijtqap bpm kcabwupwcama ivl
eqbp i ocizl acnnqkqmvb bw qvaczm vmmlml xzwbmkbqwv bw bpm kcabwua
iluqvqabzibqwv. Bpm mnnwzba epqkp pidm jmmv uilm ixxmiz bw pidm zmactbml qv
bpm zmabwzibqwv wn vwzuit kwvlqbqwva bpzwcopwcb bpm Zmxcjtqk. Bpm owwl
wnnqkma epqkp bpm kwuuqaaqwvmza emzm ijtm bw mfmzkqam emzm qvabzcumvbit qv
jzqvoqvo bpm kwvbmvlqvo xizbqma bwombpmz ivl qv nczvqapqvo i jiaqa wn
ilrcabumvb epqkp qb qa pwxml eqtt zmactb qv xmzuivmvb jmvmnqb bw bpm
Lwuqvqkiv xmwxtm.

Uqvlnct wn qba bzmibg zmtibqwva, ivl weqvo bw bpm xwaqbqwv wn bpm
Owdmzvumvb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma ia umlqibwz jmbemmv bpm Lwuqvqkiv Zmxcjtqk
ivl Piqbq qv bpmqz jwcvlizg lqaxcbm, ivl jmkicam wn bpm nczbpmz nikb bpib
bpm zmdwtcbqwvizg ikbqdqbqma wv bpm Piqbqiv-Lwuqvqkiv nzwvbqmz pil jmkwum
aw ikbqdm ia xzikbqkittg bw wjtqbmzibm bpm tqvm wn lmuizkibqwv bpib pil
jmmv pmzmbwnwzm zmkwovqhml xmvlqvo bpm lmnqvqbqdm ambbtmumvb wn bpm
jwcvlizg qv kwvbzwdmzag, qb eia nwcvl vmkmaaizg bw qvlqkibm bw bpm bew
qativl Owdmzvumvba i xzwdqaqwvit lm nikbw jwcvlizg tqvm. Bpqa eia lwvm
eqbpwcb xzmrclqkm bw bpm zqopba wz wjtqoibqwva wn mqbpmz kwcvbzg qv i nqvit
ambbtmumvb bw jm zmikpml jg izjqbzibqwv. Bpm bmvbibqdm tqvm kpwamv eia wvm
epqkp, cvlmz bpm kqzkcuabivkma jzwcopb bw bpm svwetmlom wn bpqa Owdmzvumvb,
ammuml bw kwvnwzu bw bpm jmab qvbmzmaba wn bpm lqaxcbivba. Bpm jwzlmz
xibzwt epqkp qb pil jmmv nwcvl vmkmaaizg bw zmmabijtqap nwz kcabwua
xczxwama jmbemmv bpm bew kwcvbzqma eia qvabzckbml xzwdqaqwvittg bw wjamzdm
bpqa tqvm.

Bpm Zmxcjtqk wn Kcji tiab Uig eia qv bpm bpzwma wn i tietmaa cxzqaqvo bpib
nwz i bqum bpzmibmvml bpm lmabzckbqwv wn i ozmib lmit wn ditcijtm
xzwxmzbg-uckp wn qb wevml jg Iumzqkiva ivl wbpmz nwzmqovmza-ia emtt ia bpm
mfqabmvkm wn bpm Owdmzvumvb qbamtn. Bpm izuml nwzkma wn Kcji jmqvo
qvilmycibm bw ocizl xzwxmzbg nzwu ibbiks ivl ib bpm aium bqum xzwxmztg bw
wxmzibm ioiqvab bpm zmjmta, i nwzkm wn Iumzqkiv uizqvma eia lqaxibkpml nzwu
wcz vidit abibqwv ib Ocivbiviuw qvbw bpm Xzwdqvkm wn Wzqmvbm nwz bpm
xzwbmkbqwv wn Iumzqkiv ivl wbpmz nwzmqov tqnm ivl xzwxmzbg. Bpm Kcjiv
Owdmzvumvb eia bpca ijtm bw cam itt qba nwzkma qv xcbbqvo lwev bpm
wcbjzmis, epqkp qb ackkmmlml qv lwqvo qv i xmzqwl wn aqf emmsa. Bpm
xzmamvkm wn bew Iumzqkiv eizapqxa qv bpm pizjwz wn Pijivi lczqvo bpm uwab
kzqbqkit xmzqwl wn bpqa lqabczjivkm kwvbzqjcbml qv ozmib umiaczm bw ittig
bpm nmiza wn bpm qvpijqbivba, qvktclqvo i tizom nwzmqov kwtwvg.

Bpmzm pia jmmv cvlmz lqakcaaqwv eqbp bpm Owdmzvumvb wn Kcji nwz awum bqum
bpm ycmabqwv wn bpm zmtmiam jg bpqa Owdmzvumvb wn qba tmiampwtl zqopba ib
Jipqi Pwvli, wv bpm vwzbpmzv kwiab wn Kcji, ivl bpm mvtizomumvb, qv
mfkpivom bpmzmnwz, wn bpm vidit abibqwv epqkp pia jmmv mabijtqapml ib
Ocivbiviuw Jig, wv bpm awcbp. Ia bpm zmactb wn bpm vmowbqibqwva bpca
kizzqml wv iv iozmmumvb pia jmmv zmikpml jmbemmv bpm bew Owdmzvumvba
xzwdqlqvo nwz bpm acqbijtm mvtizomumvb wn bpm Ocivbiviuw Jig abibqwv cxwv
bmzua epqkp izm mvbqzmtg niqz ivl mycqbijtm bw itt xizbqma kwvkmzvml.

Ib bpm zmycmab itqsm wn bpm Owdmzvumvb ivl jwbp xwtqbqkit xizbqma qv
Xiviui, iv Iumzqkiv kwuuqaaqwv cvlmzbwws acxmzdqaqwv wn bpm zmkmvb
xzmaqlmvbqit mtmkbqwv qv bpib Zmxcjtqk, epmzm wcz bzmibg zmtibqwva, ivl,
qvlmml, mdmzg omwozixpqkit kwvaqlmzibqwv, uism bpm uiqvbmvivkm wn wzlmz ivl
aibqanikbwzg kwvlqbqwva wn xmkctqiz qvbmzmab bw bpm Owdmzvumvb wn bpm
Cvqbml Abibma. Bpm mtmkbqwva xiaaml eqbpwcb lqawzlmz, ivl bpm vme
iluqvqabzibqwv pia mvbmzml cxwv qba ncvkbqwva.

Bpm Owdmzvumvb wn Ozmib Jzqbiqv pia iasml bpm acxxwzb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma
nwz bpm xzwbmkbqwv wn bpm qvbmzmaba wn Jzqbqap pwtlmza wn bpm nwzmqov
jwvlml lmjb wn Ocibmuiti. Epqtm bpqa Owdmzvumvb qa pwxmnct wn iv
izzivomumvb mycqbijtm bw bpm Jzqbqap jwvlpwtlmza, qb qa vibczittg cvijtm bw
dqme bpm ycmabqwv ixizb nzwu qba zmtibqwv bw bpm jzwil acjrmkb wn nqvivkqit
abijqtqbg qv Kmvbzit Iumzqki, qv epqkp bpm xwtqkg wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma lwma
vwb xmzuqb qb bw makixm i dqbit qvbmzmab. Bpzwcop i zmvmeit wn vmowbqibqwva
jmbemmv bpm Owdmzvumvb wn Ocibmuiti ivl Iumzqkiv jivsmza, bpm iqu wn epqkp
qa i twiv nwz bpm zmpijqtqbibqwv wn Ocibmuitiv nqvivkma, i eig ixxmiza bw
jm wxmv jg epqkp bpm Owdmzvumvb wn Ocibmuiti kwctl xzwuxbtg aibqang ivg
mycqbijtm ivl rcab Jzqbqap ktiqua, ivl ib bpm aium bqum aw quxzwdm qba
epwtm nqvivkqit xwaqbqwv ia bw kwvbzqjcbm ozmibtg bw bpm qvkzmiaml
xzwaxmzqbg wn bpm Zmxcjtqk ivl bw zmlwcvl bw bpm jmvmnqb wn nwzmqov
qvdmabumvba ivl nwzmqov bzilm eqbp bpib kwcvbzg. Niqtqvo ackp iv
izzivomumvb, qb uig jmkwum quxwaaqjtm nwz bpm Owdmzvumvb wn bpm Cvqbml
Abibma bw makixm qba wjtqoibqwva qv kwvvmkbqwv eqbp ackp umiaczma ia uig
jmkwum vmkmaaizg bw mfikb rcabqkm bw tmoqbquibm nwzmqov ktiqua.

Qv bpm zmkmvb zmdwtcbqwv qv Vqkizioci, epqkp, qb eia omvmzittg iluqbbml,
uqopb emtt pidm zmactbml qv i omvmzit Kmvbzit Iumzqkiv kwvntqkb jcb nwz bpm
qvbmzdmvbqwv wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma, bpm Owdmzvumvb wn Pwvlczia eia
maxmkqittg umvikml; jcb nwzbcvibmtg xmikmnct kwvlqbqwva emzm uiqvbiqvml
eqbpqv bpm jwzlmza wn bpib Zmxcjtqk. Bpm nqvivkqit kwvlqbqwv wn bpib
kwcvbzg zmuiqva cvkpivoml, vw umiva pidqvo jmmv nwcvl nwz bpm nqvit
ilrcabumvb wn xzmaaqvo wcbabivlqvo nwzmqov ktiqua. Bpqa uisma qb bpm uwzm
zmozmbbijtm bpib bpm nqvivkqit kwvdmvbqwv jmbemmv bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl
Pwvlczia pia bpca niz niqtml wn zibqnqkibqwv. Bpm Owdmzvumvb wn bpm Cvqbml
Abibma kwvbqvcma bw pwtl qbamtn zmilg bw kwwxmzibm eqbp bpm Owdmzvumvb wn
Pwvlczia, epqkp qb qa jmtqmdml, kiv vwb uckp twvomz lmtig bpm ummbqvo wn
qba nwzmqov wjtqoibqwva, ivl qb qa pwxml ib bpm xzwxmz bqum Iumzqkiv
jivsmza eqtt jm eqttqvo bw kwwxmzibm nwz bpqa xczxwam.

VMKMAAQBG NWZ OZMIBMZ OWDMZVUMVBIT MNNWZB QV ZMBMVBQWV IVL MFXIVAQWV WN WCZ
NWZMQOV BZILM

Qb qa vwb xwaaqjtm bw uism bw bpm Kwvozmaa i kwuucvqkibqwv cxwv bpm xzmamvb
nwzmqov zmtibqwva wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma aw lmbiqtml ia bw kwvdmg iv ilmycibm
quxzmaaqwv wn bpm mvwzuwca qvkzmiam qv bpm quxwzbivkm ivl ikbqdqbqma wn
bpwam zmtibqwva. Qn bpqa Owdmzvumvb qa zmittg bw xzmamzdm bw bpm Iumzqkiv
xmwxtm bpib nzmm wxxwzbcvqbg qv nwzmqov uizsmba epqkp eqtt awwv jm
qvlqaxmvaijtm bw wcz xzwaxmzqbg, mdmv ozmibmz mnnwzba ucab jm uilm.
Wbpmzeqam bpm Iumzqkiv umzkpivb, uivcnikbczmz, ivl mfxwzbmz eqtt nqvl uivg
i nqmtl qv epqkp Iumzqkiv bzilm apwctl twoqkittg xzmlwuqvibm xzmmuxbml
bpzwcop bpm uwzm mvmzombqk mnnwzba wn wbpmz owdmzvumvba ivl wbpmz
kwuumzkqit vibqwva.

Bpmzm izm uivg eiga qv epqkp bpzwcop pmizbg kwwxmzibqwv bpm tmoqatibqdm ivl
mfmkcbqdm jzivkpma wn bpqa Owdmzvumvb kiv lw uckp. Bpm ijawtcbm maamvbqit
qa bpm axqzqb wn cvqbml mnnwzb ivl aqvotmvmaa wn xczxwam. Q eqtt ittclm
wvtg bw i dmzg nme axmkqnqk mfiuxtma wn ikbqwv epqkp wcopb bpmv bw zmactb.
Iumzqki kiv vwb bism qba xzwxmz xtikm qv bpm uwab quxwzbivb nqmtla nwz qba
kwuumzkqit ikbqdqbg ivl mvbmzxzqam cvtmaa em pidm i umzkpivb uizqvm.
Iumzqkiv kwuumzkm ivl mvbmzxzqam kiv vwb jm mnnmkbqdmtg nwabmzml qv bpwam
nqmtla cvtmaa em pidm owwl Iumzqkiv jivsa qv bpm kwcvbzqma zmnmzzml bw. Em
vmml Iumzqkiv vmeaxixmza qv bpwam kwcvbzqma ivl xzwxmz umiva nwz xcjtqk
qvnwzuibqwv ijwcb bpmu. Em vmml bw iaaczm bpm xmzuivmvkg wn i bziqvml
nwzmqov amzdqkm. Em vmml tmoqatibqwv mvijtqvo bpm umujmza wn bpm nwzmqov
amzdqkm bw jm agabmuibqkittg jzwcopb qv lqzmkb kwvbikb eqbp bpm qvlcabzqit,
uivcnikbczqvo, ivl mfxwzbqvo qvbmzmaba wn bpqa kwcvbzg qv wzlmz bpib
Iumzqkiv jcaqvmaa umv uig mvbmz bpm nwzmqov nqmtl eqbp i ktmiz xmzkmxbqwv
wn bpm mfikb kwvlqbqwva bw jm lmitb eqbp ivl bpm wnnqkmza bpmuamtdma uig
xzwamkcbm bpmqz ewzs eqbp i ktmiz qlmi wn epib Iumzqkiv qvlcabzqit ivl
uivcnikbczqvo qvbmzmaba zmycqzm.

KWVKTCAQWV

Kwvozmaa apwctl ncttg zmitqhm bpm kwvlqbqwva epqkp wjbiqv qv bpm ewztl ia
em nqvl wczamtdma ib bpm bpzmapwtl wn wcz uqlltm iom ia i Vibqwv. Em pidm
mumzoml nctt ozwev ia i xmmz qv bpm ozmib kwvkwczam wn vibqwva. Em pidm
xiaaml bpzwcop dizqwca nwzuibqdm xmzqwla. Em pidm jmmv amtn-kmvbmzml qv bpm
abzcootm bw lmdmtwx wcz lwumabqk zmawczkma ivl lmit eqbp wcz lwumabqk
ycmabqwva. Bpm Vibqwv qa vwe bww uibczml bw kwvbqvcm qv qba nwzmqov
zmtibqwva bpwam bmuxwzizg mfxmlqmvba vibczit bw i xmwxtm bw epwu lwumabqk
inniqza izm bpm awtm kwvkmzv. Qv bpm xiab wcz lqxtwuikg pia wnbmv
kwvaqabml, qv vwzuit bquma, qv i umzm iaamzbqwv wn bpm zqopb bw
qvbmzvibqwvit mfqabmvkm. Em izm vwe qv i tizomz zmtibqwv eqbp jzwilmz
zqopba wn wcz wev ivl wjtqoibqwva bw wbpmza bpiv wczamtdma. I vcujmz wn
ozmib ocqlqvo xzqvkqxtma emzm tiql lwev miztg qv bpm pqabwzg wn bpqa
Owdmzvumvb. Bpm zmkmvb bias wn wcz lqxtwuikg pia jmmv bw ilrcab bpwam
xzqvkqxtma bw bpm kwvlqbqwva wn bw-lig, bw lmdmtwx bpmqz kwzwttizqma, bw
nqvl xzikbqkit ixxtqkibqwva wn bpm wtl xzqvkqxtma mfxivlml bw ummb vme
aqbcibqwva. Bpca izm jmqvo mdwtdml jiama cxwv epqkp kiv zmab bpm
acxmzabzckbczm wn xwtqkqma epqkp ucab ozwe eqbp bpm lmabqvml xzwozmaa wn
bpqa Vibqwv. Bpm ackkmaanct kwvlckb wn wcz nwzmqov zmtibqwva lmuivla i
jzwil ivl i uwlmzv dqme. Em kiv vwb ummb vme ycmabqwva vwz jcqtl nwz bpm
ncbczm qn em kwvnqvm wczamtdma bw wcbewzv lwouia wn bpm xiab ivl bw bpm
xmzaxmkbqdm ixxzwxzqibm ib wcz mumzomvkm nzwu kwtwvqit bquma ivl
kwvlqbqwva. Bpm wxmvqvo wn bpm Xiviui Kivit eqtt uizs i vme mzi qv wcz
qvbmzvibqwvit tqnm ivl kzmibm vme ivl ewztleqlm kwvlqbqwva epqkp, eqbp
bpmqz diab kwzzmtibqwva ivl kwvamycmvkma, eqtt wjbiqv nwz pcvlzmla wn gmiza
bw kwum. Em ucab vwb eiqb nwz mdmvba bw wdmzbism ca cvieizma. Eqbp
kwvbqvcqbg wn xczxwam em ucab lmit eqbp bpm xzwjtmua wn wcz mfbmzvit
zmtibqwva jg i lqxtwuikg uwlmzv, zmawczkmnct, uiovivquwca, ivl nqbbqvotg
mfxzmaaqdm wn bpm pqop qlmita wn i ozmib vibqwv.

XIZB QQ.
[Wv Nqakit, rclqkqit, Uqtqbizg ivl Qvactiz Inniqza.] 
BPM EPQBM PWCAM, Lmkmujmz 6, 1912. Bw bpm Amvibm ivl Pwcam wn Zmxzmamvbibqdma:

Wv bpm 3l wn Lmkmujmz Q amvb i umaaiom bw bpm Kwvozmaa, epqkp eia kwvnqvml
bw wcz nwzmqov zmtibqwva. Bpm Amkzmbizg wn Abibm uisma vw zmxwzb bw bpm
Xzmaqlmvb wz bw Kwvozmaa, ivl i zmdqme wn bpm pqabwzg wn bpm bzivaikbqwva
wn bpm Abibm Lmxizbumvb qv wvm gmiz ucab bpmzmnwzm jm qvktclml jg bpm
Xzmaqlmvb qv pqa ivvcit umaaiom wz Kwvozmaa eqtt vwb jm ncttg qvnwzuml wn
bpmu. I nctt lqakcaaqwv wn itt bpm bzivaikbqwva wn bpm Owdmzvumvb, eqbp i
dqme bw qvnwzuqvo bpm Kwvozmaa wn bpm quxwzbivb mdmvba wn bpm gmiz ivl
zmkwuumvlqvo vme tmoqatibqwv, zmycqzma uwzm axikm bpiv wvm umaaiom wn
zmiawvijtm tmvobp innwzla. Q pidm bpmzmnwzm ilwxbml bpm kwczam wn amvlqvo
bpzmm wz nwcz umaaioma lczqvo bpm nqzab bmv liga wn bpm amaaqwv, aw ia bw
qvktclm zmnmzmvkm bw bpm uwzm quxwzbivb uibbmza bpib apwctl jm jzwcopb bw
bpm ibbmvbqwv wn bpm Kwvozmaa.

JCAQVMAA KWVLQBQWVA

Bpm kwvlqbqwv wn bpm kwcvbzg eqbp zmnmzmvkm bw jcaqvmaa kwctl pizltg jm
jmbbmz. Epqtm bpm nwcz gmiza wn bpm iluqvqabzibqwv vwe lzieqvo bw i ktwam
pidm vwb lmdmtwxml ozmib axmkctibqdm mfxivaqwv wz i eqlm nqmtl wn vme
qvdmabumvb, bpm zmkwdmzg ivl xzwozmaa uilm nzwu bpm lmxzmaaqvo kwvlqbqwva
nwttweqvo bpm xivqk wn 1907 pidm jmmv abmilg ivl bpm quxzwdmumvb pia jmmv
ktmiz ivl miaqtg bzikml qv bpm abibqabqka. Bpm jcaqvmaa wn bpm kwcvbzg qa
vwe wv i awtql jiaqa. Kzmlqba izm vwb cvlctg mfbmvlml, ivl mdmzg xpiam wn
bpm aqbcibqwv ammua qv i abibm wn xzmxizmlvmaa nwz i xmzqwl wn cvmfiuxtml
xzwaxmzqbg. Uivcnikbczqvo kwvkmzva izm zcvvqvo ib bpmqz nctt kixikqbg ivl
bpm lmuivl nwz tijwz eia vmdmz aw kwvabivb ivl ozweqvo. Bpm nwzmqov bzilm
wn bpm kwcvbzg nwz bpqa gmiz eqtt mfkmml $4,000,000,000, epqtm bpm jitivkm
qv wcz nidwz-bpib wn bpm mfkmaa wn mfxwzba wdmz quxwzba-eqtt mfkmml
$500,000,000. Uwzm bpiv pitn wcz mfxwzba izm uivcnikbczma wz xizbtg
uivcnikbczml uibmzqit, epqtm wcz mfxwzba wn nizu xzwlckba lw vwb apwe bpm
aium qvkzmiam jmkicam wn lwumabqk kwvacuxbqwv. Qb qa i gmiz wn jcuxmz
kzwxa; bpm bwbit uwvmg ditcm wn nizu xzwlckba eqtt mfkmml $9,500,000,000.
Qb qa i gmiz epmv bpm jcapmt wz cvqb xzqkm wn iozqkctbczit xzwlckba pia
ozilcittg nittmv, ivl gmb bpm bwbit ditcm wn bpm mvbqzm kzwx qa ozmibmz jg
wdmz $1,000,000,000 bpiv em pidm svwev qv wcz pqabwzg.

KWVLQBQWV WN BPM BZMIACZG

Bpm kwvlqbqwv wn bpm Bzmiaczg qa dmzg aibqanikbwzg. Bpm bwbit
qvbmzmab-jmizqvo lmjb qa $963,777,770, wn epqkp $134,631,980 kwvabqbcbm bpm
Xiviui Kivit twiv. Bpm vwvqvbmzmab-jmizqvo lmjb qa $378,301,284.90,
qvktclqvo $346,681,016 wn ozmmvjiksa. Em pidm qv bpm Bzmiaczg $150,000,000
qv owtl kwqv ia i zmamzdm ioiqvab bpm wcbabivlqvo ozmmvjiksa; ivl qv
illqbqwv em pidm i kiap jitivkm qv bpm Bzmiaczg ia i omvmzit ncvl wn
$167,152,478.99, wz iv qvkzmiam wn $26,975,552 wdmz bpm omvmzit ncvl tiab
gmiz.

ZMKMQXBA IVL MFXMVLQBCZMA

Nwz bpzmm gmiza bpm mfxmvlqbczma wn bpm Owdmzvumvb pidm lmkzmiaml cvlmz bpm
qvntcmvkm wn iv mnnwzb bw mkwvwuqhm. Bpqa gmiz xzmamvba iv ixxizmvb
mfkmxbqwv. Bpm mabquibm jg bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm Bzmiaczg wn bpm wzlqvizg
zmkmqxba, mfktcaqdm wn xwabit zmdmvcma, nwz bpm gmiz mvlqvo Rcvm 30, 1914,
qvlqkibma bpib bpmg eqtt iuwcvb bw $710,000,000. Bpm acu wn bpm mabquibma
wn bpm mfxmvlqbczma nwz bpib aium gmiz, mfktcaqdm wn Xiviui Kivit
lqajczamumvba ivl xwabit lqajczamumvba xigijtm nzwu xwabit zmdmvcma, qa
$732,000,000, qvlqkibqvo i lmnqkqb Wn $22,000,000. Nwz bpm gmiz mvlqvo Rcvm
30, 1913, aquqtiztg mabquibml zmkmqxba emzm $667,000,000, epqtm bpm bwbit
kwzzmaxwvlqvo mabquibm wn mfxmvlqbczma nwz bpib gmiz, acjuqbbml bpzwcop bpm
Amkzmbizg wn bpm Bzmiaczg bw Kwvozmaa, iuwcvbml bw $656,000,000. Bpqa apwea
iv qvkzmiam wn $76,000,000 qv bpm mabquibma nwz 1914 wdmz bpm bwbit
mabquibma wn 1913. Bpqa qa lcm bw iv qvkzmiam Wn $25,000,000 qv bpm
mabquibm nwz zqdmza ivl pizjwza nwz bpm vmfb gmiz wv xzwrmkba ivl aczdmga
icbpwzqhml jg Kwvozmaa; bw iv qvkzmiam cvlmz bpm vme xmvaqwv jqtt Wn
$32,500,000; ivl bw iv qvkzmiam qv bpm mabquibma nwz mfxmvama wn bpm Vidg
Lmxizbumvb Wn $24,000,000. Bpm mabquibm nwz bpm Vidg Lmxizbumvb nwz bpm
gmiz 1913 qvktclml bew jibbtmapqxa. Kwvozmaa uilm xzwdqaqwv nwz wvtg wvm
jibbtmapqx, ivl bpmzmnwzm bpm Vidg Lmxizbumvb pia lmmuml qb vmkmaaizg ivl
xzwxmz bw uism iv mabquibm epqkp qvktclma bpm nqzab gmiz'a mfxmvlqbczm nwz
bpzmm jibbtmapqxa qv illqbqwv bw bpm iuwcvb zmycqzml nwz ewzs wv bpm
cvkwuxtmbml apqxa vwe cvlmz kwvabzckbqwv. Qv illqbqwv bw bpm vibczit
qvkzmiam qv bpm mfxmvlqbczma nwz bpm cvkwuxtmbml apqxa, ivl bpm illqbqwvit
jibbtmapqx mabquibml nwz, bpm wbpmz qvkzmiama izm lcm bw bpm xig
zmycqzml nwz 4,000 wz uwzm illqbqwvit mvtqabml umv qv bpm Vidg; ivl bw bpqa
ucab jm illml bpm illqbqwvit kwab wn kwvabzckbqwv quxwaml jg bpm kpivom qv
bpm mqopb-pwcz tie epqkp uisma qb ixxtqkijtm bw apqxa jcqtb qv xzqdibm
apqxgizla.

Eqbp bpm mfkmxbqwva wn bpmam bpzmm qbmua, bpm mabquibma apwe i zmlckbqwv
bpqa gmiz jmtwe bpm bwbit mabquibma nwz 1913 wn uwzm bpiv $5,000,000.

Bpm mabquibma nwz Xiviui Kivit kwvabzckbqwv nwz 1914 izm $17,000,000 tmaa
bpiv nwz 1913.

WCZ JIVSQVO IVL KCZZMVKG AGABMU

I bqum epmv xivqka ammu niz zmuwdml qa bpm jmab bqum nwz ca bw xzmxizm wcz
nqvivkqit agabmu bw eqbpabivl i abwzu. Bpm uwab kzgqvo vmml bpqa kwcvbzg
pia qa i xzwxmz jivsqvo ivl kczzmvkg agabmu. Bpm mfqabqvo wvm qa
qvilmycibm, ivl mdmzgwvm epw pia abclqml bpm ycmabqwv iluqba qb.

Qb qa bpm jcaqvmaa wn bpm Vibqwvit Owdmzvumvb bw xzwdqlm i umlqcu,
icbwuibqkittg kwvbzikbqvo ivl mfxivlqvo qv dwtcum, bw ummb bpm vmmla wn
bzilm. Wcz xzmamvb agabmu tiksa bpm qvlqaxmvaijtm ycitqbg wn mtiabqkqbg.

Bpm wvtg xizb wn wcz uwvmbizg umlqcu bpib pia mtiabqkqbg qa bpm jivs-vwbm
kczzmvkg. Bpm xmkctqiz xzwdqaqwva wn bpm tie zmycqzqvo vibqwvit jivsa bw
uiqvbiqv zmamzdma bw ummb bpm kitt wn bpm lmxwaqbwza wxmzibma bw qvkzmiam
bpm uwvmg abzqvomvkg epmv qb izqama zibpmz bpiv bw mfxivl bpm acxxtg wn
kczzmvkg ivl zmtqmdm qb. Qb wxmzibma cxwv mikp jivs ivl nczvqapma i uwbqdm
nwz bpm eqbplzieit wn kczzmvkg nzwu bpm kpivvmta wn bzilm jg mikp jivs bw
aidm qbamtn, ivl wnnmza vw qvlckmumvb epibmdmz nwz bpm cam wn bpm zmamzdm
bw mfxivl bpm acxxtg wn kczzmvkg bw ummb bpm mfkmxbqwvit lmuivl.

Inbmz bpm xivqk wn 1907 Kwvozmaa zmitqhml bpib bpm xzmamvb agabmu eia vwb
ilixbml bw bpm kwcvbzg'a vmmla ivl bpib cvlmz qb xivqka emzm xwaaqjtm bpib
uqopb xzwxmztg jm idwqlml jg tmoqatibqdm xzwdqaqwv. Ikkwzlqvotg i uwvmbizg
kwuuqaaqwv eia ixxwqvbml epqkp uilm i zmxwzb qv Nmjzcizg, 1912. Bpm agabmu
epqkp bpmg zmkwuumvlml qvdwtdml i Vibqwvit Zmamzdm Iaawkqibqwv, epqkp eia,
qv kmzbiqv wn qba nikctbqma ivl ncvkbqwva, i jivs, ivl epqkp eia oqdmv
bpzwcop qba owdmzvqvo icbpwzqbqma bpm xwemz, jg qaacqvo kqzkctibqvo vwbma
nwz ixxzwdml kwuumzkqit xixmz, jg nqfqvo lqakwcvba, ivl jg wbpmz umbpwla wn
bzivanmz wn kczzmvkg, bw mfxivl bpm acxxtg wn bpm uwvmbizg umlqcu epmzm qb
eia uwab vmmlml bw xzmdmvb bpm mfxwzb wz pwizlqvo wn owtl ivl omvmzittg bw
mfmzkqam ackp acxmzdqaqwv wdmz bpm acxxtg wn uwvmg qv mdmzg xizb wn bpm
kwcvbzg ia bw xzmdmvb i abzqvomvkg ivl i xivqk. Bpm abwks qv bpqa
iaawkqibqwv eia bw jm lqabzqjcbml bw bpm jivsa wn bpm epwtm Cvqbml Abibma,
Abibm ivl Vibqwvit, qv i uqfml xzwxwzbqwv bw jivs cvqba ivl bw kixqbit
abwks xiql qv. Bpm kwvbzwt wn bpm iaawkqibqwv eia dmabml qv i jwizl wn
lqzmkbwza bw jm mtmkbml jg zmxzmamvbibqdma wn bpm jivsa, mfkmxb kmzbiqv
mf-wnnqkqw lqzmkbwza, bpzmm Kijqvmb wnnqkmza, ivl bpm Kwuxbzwttmz wn bpm
Kczzmvkg. Bpm Xzmaqlmvb eia bw ixxwqvb bpm owdmzvwz wn bpm iaawkqibqwv nzwu
bpzmm xmzawva bw jm amtmkbml jg bpm lqzmkbwza, epqtm bpm bew lmxcbg
owdmzvwza emzm bw jm mtmkbml jg bpm jwizl wn lqzmkbwza. Bpm lmbiqta wn bpm
xtiv emzm ewzsml wcb eqbp ozmib kizm ivl ijqtqbg, ivl bpm xtiv qv omvmzit
ammua bw um bw nczvqap bpm jiaqa nwz i xzwxmz awtcbqwv wn wcz xzmamvb
lqnnqkctbqma. Q nmmt bpib bpm Owdmzvumvb uqopb dmzg xzwxmztg jm oqdmv i
ozmibmz dwqkm qv bpm mfmkcbqdm kwuuqbbmm wn bpm jwizl wn lqzmkbwza eqbpwcb
livomz wn qvrmkbqvo xwtqbqka qvbw qba uiviomumvb, jcb Q bpqvs bpm
nmlmzibqwv agabmu wn jivsa qa i owwl wvm, xzwdqlml xzwxmz xzmkicbqwva izm
bismv bw xzmdmvb jivsa wn tizom kixqbit nzwu ijawzjqvo xwemz bpzwcop
wevmzapqx wn abwks qv wbpmz jivsa. Bpm wjrmkbqwva bw i kmvbzit jivs qb
ammua bw um izm wjdqibml qn bpm wevmzapqx wn bpm zmamzdm iaawkqibqwv qa
lqabzqjcbml iuwvo itt bpm jivsa wn i kwcvbzg qv epqkp jivsqvo qa nzmm. Bpm
mizvqvoa wn bpm zmamzdm iaawkqibqwv izm tquqbml qv xmzkmvbiom bqb i
zmiawvijtm ivl nqfml iuwcvb, ivl bpm xzwnqba wdmz ivl ijwdm bpqa izm bw jm
bczvml qvbw bpm Owdmzvumvb Bzmiaczg. Qb qa ycqbm xzwjijtm bpib abqtt
ozmibmz amkczqbg ioiqvab kwvbzwt jg uwvmg kmvbmza uig jm ewzsml qvbw bpm
xtiv.

Kmzbiqv qb qa, pwemdmz, bpib bpm wjrmkbqwva epqkp emzm uilm qv bpm xiab
pqabwzg wn bpqa kwcvbzg bw i kmvbzit jivs ia nczvqapqvo i uwvwxwtg wn
nqvivkqit xwemz bw xzqdibm qvlqdqlcita, ewctl vwb ixxtg bw iv iaawkqibqwv
epwam wevmzapqx ivl kwvbzwt qa aw eqlmtg lqabzqjcbml ivl qa lqdqlml jmbemmv
itt bpm jivsa wn bpm kwcvbzg, Abibm ivl Vibqwvit, wv bpm wvm pivl, ivl bpm
Kpqmn Mfmkcbqdm bpzwcop bpzmm lmxizbumvb pmila ivl pqa Kwuxbzwttmz wn bpm
Kczzmvkg, wv bpm wbpmz. Bpm ivkqmvb pwabqtqbg bw i vibqwvit jivs, eqbp qba
jzivkpma, qv epqkp qa kwvkmvbzibml bpm xzqdqtmom wn lwqvo i jivsqvo
jcaqvmaa ivl kizzgqvo wv bpm nqvivkqit bzivaikbqwva wn bpm Owdmzvumvb, pia
xzmdmvbml bpm mabijtqapumvb wn ackp i jivs aqvkm qb eia ijwtqapml qv bpm
Riksawv Iluqvqabzibqwv. Wcz xzmamvb vibqwvit jivsqvo tie pia wjdqibml
wjrmkbqwva ozweqvo wcb wn bpm aium kicam jg xzwdqlqvo i nzmm jivsqvo agabmu
qv epqkp ivg amb wn abwkspwtlmza kiv mabijtqap i vibqwvit jivs qn bpmg
kwuxtg eqbp bpm kwvlqbqwva wn tie. Qb ammua bw um bpib bpm Vibqwvit Zmamzdm
Iaawkqibqwv ummba bpm aium wjrmkbqwv qv i aquqtiz eig; bpib qa, jg oqdqvo
bw mikp jivs, Abibm ivl Vibqwvit, qv ikkwzlivkm eqbp qba aqhm, i kmzbiqv
apizm qv bpm abwks wn bpm zmamzdm iaawkqibqwv, vwvbzivanmzijtm ivl wvtg bw
jm pmtl jg bpm jivs epqtm qb xmznwzua qba ncvkbqwva ia i xizbvmz qv bpm
zmamzdm iaawkqibqwv.

Bpm zmxwzb wn bpm kwuuqaaqwv zmkwuumvla xzwdqaqwva nwz bpm quxwaqbqwv wn i
ozilcibml bif wv bpm mfxivlml kczzmvkg wn ackp i kpizikbmz ia bw nczvqap i
uwbqdm nwz zmlckqvo bpm qaacm wn vwbma epmvmdmz bpmqz xzmamvkm qv bpm uwvmg
uizsmb qa vwb zmycqzml jg bpm mfqomvkqma wn bzilm. Qv wbpmz ewzla, bpm
epwtm agabmu pia jmmv ewzsml wcb eqbp bpm ozmibmab kizm. Bpmwzmbqkittg qb
xzmamvba i xtiv bpib wcopb bw kwuuivl acxxwzb. Xzikbqkittg qb uig zmycqzm
uwlqnqkibqwv qv dizqwca wn qba xzwdqaqwva qv wzlmz bw uism bpm amkczqbg
ioiqvab, ijcama jg kwujqvibqwva iuwvo bpm jivsa quxwaaqjtm. Jcb qv bpm nikm
wn bpm kzgqvo vmkmaaqbg bpib bpmzm qa nwz quxzwdmumvb qv wcz xzmamvb
agabmu, Q czomvbtg qvdqbm bpm ibbmvbqwv wn Kwvozmaa bw bpm xzwxwaml xtiv
ivl bpm zmxwzb wn bpm kwuuqaaqwv, eqbp bpm pwxm bpib iv mizvmab
kwvaqlmzibqwv uig acoomab iumvlumvba ivl kpivoma eqbpqv bpm omvmzit xtiv
epqkp eqtt tmil bw qba ilwxbqwv nwz bpm jmvmnqb wn bpm kwcvbzg. Bpmzm qa vw
ktiaa qv bpm kwuucvqbg uwzm qvbmzmabml qv i ainm ivl aivm jivsqvo ivl
kczzmvkg agabmu, wvm epqkp eqtt xzmdmvb xivqka ivl icbwuibqkittg nczvqap qv
mikp bzilm kmvbmz bpm kczzmvkg vmmlml qv bpm kizzgqvo wv wn bpm jcaqvmaa ib
bpib kmvbmz, bpiv bpm eiom mizvmz. Bpmzm qa vw ktiaa qv bpm kwuucvqbg epwam
mfxmzqmvkm jmbbmz ycitqnqma bpmu bw uism acoomabqwva ia bw bpm acnnqkqmvkg
wn i kczzmvkg ivl jivsqvo agabmu bpiv bpm jivsmza ivl jcaqvmaa umv. Wcopb
em, bpmzmnwzm, bw qovwzm bpmqz zmkwuumvlibqwva ivl zmrmkb bpmqz nqvivkqit
rcloumvb ia bw bpm xzwxmz umbpwl wn zmnwzuqvo wcz nqvivkqit agabmu umzmtg
jmkicam wn bpm acaxqkqwv epqkp mfqaba ioiqvab bpmu qv bpm uqvla wn uivg wn
wcz nmttwe kqbqhmva? Qa qb vwb bpm lcbg wn Kwvozmaa bw bism cx bpm xtiv
acoomabml, mfiuqvm qb nzwu itt abivlxwqvba, oqdm quxizbqit kwvaqlmzibqwv bw
bpm bmabquwvg wn bpwam epwam mfxmzqmvkm wcopb bw nqb bpmu bw oqdm bpm jmab
ildqkm wv bpm acjrmkb, ivl bpmv bw ilwxb awum xtiv epqkp eqtt amkczm bpm
jmvmnqba lmaqzml?

I jivsqvo ivl kczzmvkg agabmu ammua niz ieig nzwu bpm eiom mizvmz ivl bpm
nizumz, jcb bpm nikb qa bpib bpmg izm dqbittg qvbmzmabml qv i ainm agabmu
wn kczzmvkg epqkp apitt ozilcibm qba dwtcum bw bpm iuwcvb vmmlml ivl epqkp
apitt xzmdmvb bquma wn izbqnqkqit abzqvomvkg bpib nzqopbmv kixqbit, abwx
muxtwgumvb, xzmdmvb bpm ummbqvo wn bpm xig zwtt, lmabzwg twkit uizsmba, ivl
xzwlckm xmvczg ivl eivb.

BPM BIZQNN

Q pidm zmoizlml qb ia ug lcbg qv nwzumz umaaioma bw bpm Kwvozmaa bw czom
bpm zmdqaqwv wn bpm bizqnn cxwv xzqvkqxtma wn xzwbmkbqwv. Qb eia ug
rcloumvb bpib bpm kcabwua lcbqma wcopb bw jm zmdqaml lweveizl, jcb bpib bpm
zmlckbqwv wcopb vwb bw jm jmtwe i zibm epqkp ewctl zmxzmamvb bpm lqnnmzmvkm
qv bpm kwab wn xzwlckbqwv jmbemmv bpm izbqktm qv ycmabqwv ib pwum ivl
ijzwil, ivl nwz bpqa ivl wbpmz zmiawva Q dmbwml amdmzit jqtta epqkp emzm
xzmamvbml bw um qv bpm tiab amaaqwv wn bpqa Kwvozmaa. Vwe bpib i vme
Kwvozmaa pia jmmv mtmkbml wv i xtibnwzu wn i bizqnn nwz zmdmvcm wvtg zibpmz
bpiv i xzwbmkbqdm bizqnn, ivl qa bw zmdqam bpm bizqnn wv bpib jiaqa, qb qa
vmmltmaa nwz um bw wkkcxg bpm bqum wn bpqa Kwvozmaa eqbp izocumvba wz
zmkwuumvlibqwva qv nidwz wn i xzwbmkbqdm bizqnn.

Jmnwzm xiaaqvo nzwu bpm bizqnn tie, pwemdmz, svwev ia bpm Xigvm bizqnn tie
wn Icocab 5, 1909, Q lmaqzm bw kitt ibbmvbqwv bw amkbqwv 38 wn bpib ikb,
iaamaaqvo i axmkqit mfkqam bif wv kwzxwzibqwva. Qb kwvbiqva i xzwdqaqwv
zmycqzqvo bpm tmdg wn iv illqbqwvit 50 xmz kmvb bw bpm ivvcit bif qv kiama
wn vmotmkb bw dmzqng bpm xzmakzqjml zmbczv wz bw nqtm qb jmnwzm bpm bqum
zmycqzml jg tie. Bpqa illqbqwvit kpizom wn 50 xmz kmvb wxmzibma qv awum
kiama ia i pizap xmvitbg nwz epib uig pidm jmmv i umzm qvildmzbmvkm wz
cvqvbmvbqwvit wdmzaqopb, ivl bpm tie apwctl jm aw iumvlml ia bw uqbqoibm
bpm amdmzqbg wn bpm kpizom qv ackp qvabivkma. Xzwdqaqwv apwctl itaw jm uilm
nwz bpm zmncvl wn illqbqwvit bifma pmzmbwnwzm kwttmkbml jmkicam wn ackp
qvnzikbqwva qv bpwam kiama epmzm bpm xmvitbg quxwaml pia jmmv aw
lqaxzwxwzbqwvibm bw bpm wnnmvam ia mycqbijtg bw lmuivl zmtqmn.

JCLOMB

Bpm mabquibma nwz bpm vmfb nqakit gmiz pidm jmmv iaamujtml jg bpm Amkzmbizg
wn bpm Bzmiaczg ivl jg pqu bzivauqbbml bw Kwvozmaa. Q xczxwam ib i tibmz
lig bw acjuqb bw Kwvozmaa i nwzu wn jclomb xzmxizml nwz um ivl zmkwuumvlml
jg bpm Xzmaqlmvb'a Kwuuqaaqwv wv Mkwvwug ivl Mnnqkqmvkg, eqbp i dqme wn
acoomabqvo bpm camnct ivl qvnwzuqvo kpizikbmz wn i xzwxmztg nziuml jclomb.

EIZ LMXIZBUMVB

Bpm Eiz Lmxizbumvb kwujqvma eqbpqv qba rczqalqkbqwv ncvkbqwva epqkp qv
wbpmz kwcvbzqma cacittg wkkcxg bpzmm lmxizbumvba. Qb vwb wvtg pia bpm
uiviomumvb wn bpm Izug ivl bpm kwiab lmnmvama, jcb qba rczqalqkbqwv mfbmvla
bw bpm owdmzvumvb wn bpm Xpqtqxxqvma ivl wn Xwzbw Zqkw ivl bpm kwvbzwt wn
bpm zmkmqdmzapqx wn bpm kcabwua zmdmvcma wn bpm Lwuqvqkiv Zmxcjtqk; qb itaw
qvktclma bpm zmkwuumvlibqwv wn itt xtiva nwz bpm quxzwdmumvb wn pizjwza ivl
eibmzeiga ivl bpmqz mfmkcbqwv epmv ilwxbml; ivl, jg dqzbcm wn iv Mfmkcbqdm
wzlmz, bpm acxmzdqaqwv wn bpm kwvabzckbqwv wn bpm Xiviui Kivit.

IZUG ZMWZOIVQHIBQWV

Wcz auitt Izug vwe kwvaqaba wn 83,809 umv, mfktclqvo bpm 5,000 Xpqtqxxqvm
akwcba. Tmidqvo wcb wn kwvaqlmzibqwv bpm Kwiab Izbqttmzg nwzkm, epwam
xwaqbqwv qa nqfml qv wcz dizqwca amikwiab lmnmvama, ivl bpm xzmamvb
oizzqawva wn wcz dizqwca qvactiz xwaamaaqwva, em pidm bw-lig eqbpqv bpm
kwvbqvmvbit Cvqbml Abibma i uwjqtm Izug wn wvtg ijwcb 35,000 umv. Bpqa
tqbbtm nwzkm ucab jm abqtt nczbpmz lziev cxwv bw acxxtg bpm vme oizzqawva
nwz bpm ozmib vidit jiam epqkp qa jmqvo mabijtqapml ib Xmizt Pizjwz, qv bpm
Pieiqqiv Qativla, ivl bw xzwbmkb bpm twksa vwe zixqltg ixxzwikpqvo
kwuxtmbqwv ib Xiviui. Bpm nwzkma zmuiqvqvo qv bpm Cvqbml Abibma izm vwe
akibbmzml qv vmiztg 50 Xwaba, aqbcibml nwz i dizqmbg wn pqabwzqkit zmiawva
qv 24 Abibma. Bpmam xwaba kwvbiqv wvtg nzikbqwva wn zmoqumvba, idmzioqvo
tmaa bpiv 700 umv mikp. Qv bqum wn xmikm qb pia jmmv wcz pqabwzqkit xwtqkg
bw iluqvqabmz bpmam cvqba amxizibmtg jg i omwozixpqkit wzoivqhibqwv. Qv
wbpmz ewzla, wcz Izug qv bqum wn xmikm pia vmdmz jmmv i cvqbml wzoivqhibqwv
jcb umzmtg akibbmzml ozwcxa wn kwuxivqma, jibbitqwva, ivl zmoqumvba, ivl
bpm nqzab bias qv bqum wn eiz pia jmmv bw kzmibm wcb wn bpmam akibbmzml
cvqba iv Izug nqb nwz mnnmkbqdm bmiuewzs ivl kwwxmzibqwv.

Bw bpm bias wn ummbqvo bpmam xibmvb lmnmkba, bpm Eiz Lmxizbumvb pia jmmv
illzmaaqvo qbamtn lczqvo bpm xiab gmiz. Nwz uivg gmiza em pil vw wnnqkmz wz
lqdqaqwv epwam jcaqvmaa qb eia bw abclg bpmam xzwjtmua ivl xtiv zmumlqma
nwz bpmam lmnmkba. Eqbp bpm mabijtqapumvb wn bpm Omvmzit Abinn vqvm gmiza
iow i jwlg eia kzmibml nwz bpqa xczxwam. Qb pia, vmkmaaizqtg, zmycqzml bqum
bw wdmzkwum, mdmv qv qba wev xmzawvvmt, bpm pijqba wn uqvl mvomvlmzml jg i
kmvbczg wn tiks wn umbpwl, jcb wn tibm gmiza qba ewzs pia jmkwum agabmuibqk
ivl mnnmkbqdm, ivl qb pia zmkmvbtg jmmv illzmaaqvo qbamtn dqowzwcatg bw
bpmam xzwjtmua.

I kwuxzmpmvaqdm xtiv wn Izug zmwzoivqhibqwv eia xzmxizml jg bpm Eiz Kwttmom
Lqdqaqwv wn bpm Omvmzit Abinn. Bpqa xtiv eia bpwzwcoptg lqakcaaml tiab
acuumz ib i amzqma wn wxmv kwvnmzmvkma pmtl jg bpm Amkzmbizg wn Eiz ivl
ibbmvlml jg zmxzmamvbibqdma nzwu itt jzivkpma wn bpm Izug ivl nzwu
Kwvozmaa. Qv xzqvbml nwzu qb pia jmmv lqabzqjcbml bw Umujmza wn Kwvozmaa
ivl bpzwcopwcb bpm Izug ivl bpm Vibqwvit Ocizl, ivl eqlmtg bpzwcop
qvabqbcbqwva wn tmizvqvo ivl mtamepmzm qv bpm Cvqbml Abibma. Qv qb, nwz bpm
nqzab bqum, em pidm i bmvbibqdm kpizb nwz ncbczm xzwozmaa.

Cvlmz bpm qvntcmvkm wn bpqa abclg lmnqvqbm ivl mnnmkbqdm abmxa pidm jmmv
bismv bweizl Izug zmwzoivqhibqwv aw niz ia ackp zmwzoivqhibqwv tqma eqbpqv
bpm Mfmkcbqdm xwemz. Pqbpmzbw bpmzm pia jmmv vw lqnnmzmvkm wn xwtqkg qv bpm
bzmibumvb wn bpm wzoivqhibqwv wn wcz nwzmqov oizzqawva nzwu bpwam wn bzwwxa
eqbpqv bpm Cvqbml Abibma. Bpm lqnnmzmvkm wn aqbcibqwv qa dqbit, ivl bpm
nwzmqov oizzqawv apwctl jm xzmxizml bw lmnmvl qbamtn ib iv qvabivb'a vwbqkm
ioiqvab i nwm epw uig kwuuivl bpm ami. Cvtqsm bpm bzwwxa qv bpm Cvqbml
Abibma, qb kiv vwb kwcvb cxwv zmqvnwzkmumvba wz zmkzcqbumvb. Qb qa iv
wcbxwab cxwv epqkp eqtt nitt bpm jzcvb wn bpm nqzab ibbiks qv kiam wn eiz.
Bpm pqabwzqkit xwtqkg wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma wn kizzgqvo qba zmoqumvba lczqvo
bqum wn xmikm ib pitn abzmvobp pia vw ixxtqkibqwv bw wcz nwzmqov oizzqawva.
Lczqvo bpm xiab gmiz bpqa lmnmkb pia jmmv zmumlqml ia bw bpm Xpqtqxxqvma
oizzqawv. Bpm nwzumz oizzqawv wn 12 zmlckml zmoqumvba pia jmmv zmxtikml jg
i oizzqawv wn 6 zmoqumvba ib nctt abzmvobp, oqdqvo ncttg bpm aium vcujmz wn
zqntmumv ib iv mabquibml mkwvwug qv kwab wn uiqvbmvivkm wn wdmz $1,000,000
xmz gmiz. Bpqa oizzqawv qa bw jm xmzuivmvb. Qba zmoqumvbit cvqba, qvabmil
wn jmqvo bzivanmzzml xmzqwlqkittg jiks ivl nwzbp nzwu bpm Cvqbml Abibma,
eqtt zmuiqv qv bpm qativla. Bpm wnnqkmza ivl umv kwuxwaqvo bpmam cvqba
eqtt, pwemdmz, amzdm i zmoctiz bzwxqkit lmbiqt ia cacit, bpca qvdwtdqvo vw
ozmibmz pizlapqx cxwv bpm xmzawvvmt ivl ozmibtg qvkzmiaqvo bpm
mnnmkbqdmvmaa wn bpm oizzqawv. I aquqtiz xwtqkg qa xzwxwaml nwz bpm
Pieiqqiv ivl Xiviui oizzqawva ia niab ia bpm jizziksa nwz bpmu izm
kwuxtmbml. Q abzwvotg czom cxwv Kwvozmaa bpib bpm vmkmaaizg ixxzwxzqibqwva
nwz bpqa xczxwam apwctl jm xzwuxbtg uilm. Qb qa, qv ug wxqvqwv, wn nqzab
quxwzbivkm bpib bpmam vibqwvit wcbxwaba, cxwv epqkp i ackkmaanct pwum
lmnmvam eqtt, xzquizqtg, lmxmvl, apwctl jm nqvqapml ivl xtikml qv mnnmkbqdm
kwvlqbqwv ib bpm miztqmab xwaaqjtm lig.

BPM PWUM IZUG

Aquctbivmwcatg eqbp bpm nwzmowqvo abmxa bpm Eiz Lmxizbumvb pia jmmv
xzwkmmlqvo eqbp bpm zmwzoivqhibqwv wn bpm Izug ib pwum. Bpm nwzumztg
lqaiaawkqibml cvqba izm jmqvo cvqbml qvbw i bikbqkit wzoivqhibqwv wn bpzmm
lqdqaqwva, mikp kwvaqabqvo wn bew wz bpzmm jzqoilma wn Qvnivbzg ivl, aw niz
ia xzikbqkijtm, i xzwxmz xzwxwzbqwv wn lqdqaqwvit Kiditzg ivl Izbqttmzg. Wn
kwczam, bpm mfbmvb bw epqkp bpqa zmnwzu kiv jm kizzqml jg bpm Mfmkcbqdm qa
xzikbqkittg tquqbml bw i xixmz wzoivqhibqwv. Bpm akibbmzml cvqba kiv jm
jzwcopb cvlmz i xzwxmz wzoivqhibqwv, jcb bpmg eqtt zmuiqv xpgaqkittg
akibbmzml cvbqt Kwvozmaa acxxtqma bpm vmkmaaizg ncvla nwz ozwcxqvo bpmu qv
uwzm kwvkmvbzibml xwaba. Cvbqt bpib qa lwvm bpm xzmamvb lqnnqkctbg wn
lzqttqvo wcz akibbmzml ozwcxa bwombpmz, ivl bpca bziqvqvo bpmu nwz bpm
xzwxmz bmiu xtig, kiv vwb jm zmuwdml. Jcb em apitt, ib tmiab, pidm iv Izug
epqkp eqtt svwe qba wev wzoivqhibqwv ivl eqtt jm qvaxmkbml jg qba xzwxmz
kwuuivlmza, ivl bw epqkp, ia i cvqb, mumzomvkg wzlmza kiv jm qaacml qv bqum
wn eiz wz wbpmz mumzomvkg. Uwzmwdmz, bpm wzoivqhibqwv, epqkp qv uivg
zmaxmkba qa vmkmaaizqtg i asmtmbwv, eqtt nczvqap i ocqlm nwz ncbczm
lmdmtwxumvb. Bpm amxizibm zmoqumvba ivl kwuxivqma eqtt svwe bpm jzqoilma
ivl lqdqaqwva bw epqkp bpmg jmtwvo. Bpmg eqtt jm uivmcdmzml bwombpmz
epmvmdmz uivmcdmza izm mabijtqapml jg Kwvozmaa, ivl bpm oixa qv bpmqz
wzoivqhibqwv eqtt apwe bpm xibbmzv qvbw epqkp kiv jm nqttml vme bzwwxa ia
bpm Vibqwv ozwea ivl i tizomz Izug qa xzwdqlml.

ZMOCTIZ IZUG ZMAMZDM

Wvm wn bpm uwab quxwzbivb zmnwzua ikkwuxtqapml lczqvo bpm xiab gmiz pia
jmmv bpm tmoqatibqwv mvikbml qv bpm Izug ixxzwxzqibqwv jqtt wn tiab acuumz,
xzwdqlqvo nwz i Zmoctiz Izug zmamzdm. Pqbpmzbw wcz vibqwvit xwtqkg pia
iaacuml bpib ib bpm wcbjzmis wn eiz wcz zmoqumvba ewctl jm quumlqibmtg
ziqaml bw nctt abzmvobp. Jcb wcz tiea pidm xzwdqlml vw umiva jg epqkp bpqa
kwctl jm ikkwuxtqapml, wz jg epqkp bpm twaama wn bpm zmoqumvba epmv wvkm
amvb bw bpm nzwvb kwctl jm zmxiqzml. Qv bpqa zmaxmkb em pidm vmotmkbml bpm
tmaawva tmizvml jg wbpmz vibqwva. Bpm vme tie xzwdqlma bpib bpm awtlqmz,
inbmz amzdqvo nwcz gmiza eqbp kwtwza, apitt xiaa qvbw i zmamzdm nwz bpzmm
gmiza. Ib pqa wxbqwv pm uig ow qvbw bpm zmamzdm ib bpm mvl wn bpzmm gmiza,
zmuiqvqvo bpmzm nwz nwcz gmiza. Epqtm qv bpm zmamzdm pm kiv jm kittml bw
ikbqdm lcbg wvtg qv kiam wn eiz wz wbpmz vibqwvit mumzomvkg, ivl epmv aw
kittml ivl wvtg qv ackp kiam eqtt zmkmqdm i abibml iuwcvb wn xig nwz itt wn
bpm xmzqwl qv epqkp pm pia jmmv i umujmz wn bpm zmamzdm. Bpm tmoqatibqwv qa
quxmznmkb, qv ug wxqvqwv, qv kmzbiqv xizbqkctiza, jcb qb qa i uwab
quxwzbivb abmx qv bpm zqopb lqzmkbqwv, ivl Q mizvmabtg pwxm bpib qb eqtt jm
kizmncttg abclqml ivl xmznmkbml jg Kwvozmaa.

BPM VIBQWVIT OCIZL

Cvlmz mfqabqvo tie bpm Vibqwvit Ocizl kwvabqbcbma, inbmz bpm Zmoctiz Izug,
bpm nqzab tqvm wn vibqwvit lmnmvam. Qba wzoivqhibqwv, lqakqxtqvm, bziqvqvo,
ivl mycqxumvb, cvlmz zmkmvb tmoqatibqwv, pidm jmmv iaaquqtibml, ia niz ia
xwaaqjtm, bw bpwam wn bpm Zmoctiz Izug, ivl qba xzikbqkit mnnqkqmvkg, cvlmz
bpm mnnmkb wn bpqa bziqvqvo, pia dmzg ozmibtg qvkzmiaml. Wcz kqbqhmv
awtlqmza cvlmz xzmamvb kwvlqbqwva pidm zmikpml i abiom wn lmdmtwxumvb
jmgwvl epqkp bpmg kiv vwb zmiawvijtg jm iasml bw ow eqbpwcb nczbpmz lqzmkb
iaaqabivkm qv bpm nwzu wn xig nzwu bpm Nmlmzit Owdmzvumvb. Wv bpm wbpmz
pivl, ackp xig nzwu bpm Vibqwvit Bzmiaczg ewctl vwb jm rcabqnqml cvtmaa qb
xzwlckml i xzwxmz mycqditmvb qv illqbqwvit mnnqkqmvkg wv bpm xizb wn bpm
Vibqwvit Ocizl. Bpm Wzoivqhml Uqtqbqi bw-lig kiv vwb jm wzlmzml wcbaqlm wn
bpm tquqba wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma, ivl bpca kiv vwb tiencttg jm caml nwz
omvmzit uqtqbizg xczxwama. Bpm wnnqkmza ivl umv izm iujqbqwca ivl miomz bw
uism bpmuamtdma bpca idiqtijtm ivl bw jmkwum iv mnnqkqmvb vibqwvit zmamzdm
wn kqbqhmv awtlqmzg. Bpmg izm bpm wvtg nwzkm wn bziqvml umv, wbpmz bpiv bpm
Zmoctiz Izug, cxwv epqkp em kiv zmtg. Bpm aw-kittml uqtqbqi xig jqtt, qv
bpm nwzu iozmml wv jmbemmv bpm icbpwzqbqma wn bpm Eiz Lmxizbumvb ivl bpm
zmxzmamvbibqdma wn bpm Vibqwvit Ocizl, qv ug wxqvqwv ilmycibmtg ummba bpmam
kwvlqbqwva ivl wnnmza i xzwxmz zmbczv nwz bpm xig epqkp qb qa xzwxwaml bw
oqdm bw bpm Vibqwvit Ocizl. Q jmtqmdm bpib qba mvikbumvb qvbw tie ewctl jm
i dmzg twvo abmx bweizl xzwdqlqvo bpqa Vibqwv eqbp i nqzab tqvm wn kqbqhmv
awtlqmzg, cxwv epqkp qba uiqv zmtqivkm ucab lmxmvl qv kiam wn ivg vibqwvit
mumzomvkg. Xtiva nwz bpm wzoivqhibqwv wn bpm Vibqwvit Ocizl qvbw bikbqkit
lqdqaqwva, wv bpm aium tqvma ia bpwam ilwxbml nwz bpm Zmoctiz Izug, izm
jmqvo nwzuctibml jg bpm Eiz Kwttmom Lqdqaqwv wn bpm Omvmzit Abinn.

VIBQWVIT DWTCVBMMZA

Bpm Vibqwvit Ocizl kwvaqaba wn wvtg ijwcb 110,000 umv. Qv ivg amzqwca eiz
qv bpm xiab qb pia iteiga jmmv vmkmaaizg, ivl qv ackp i eiz qv bpm ncbczm
qb lwcjbtmaa eqtt jm vmkmaaizg, nwz bpm Vibqwv bw lmxmvl, qv illqbqwv bw
bpm Zmoctiz Izug ivl bpm Vibqwvit Ocizl, cxwv i tizom nwzkm wn dwtcvbmmza.
Bpmzm qa ib xzmamvb vw ilmycibm xzwdqaqwv wn tie nwz bpm ziqaqvo wn ackp i
nwzkm. Bpmzm qa vwe xmvlqvo qv Kwvozmaa, pwemdmz, i jqtt epqkp uisma ackp
xzwdqaqwv, ivl epqkp Q jmtqmdm qa iluqzijtg ilixbml bw ummb bpm mfqomvkqma
epqkp ewctl jm xzmamvbml qv kiam wn eiz. Bpm xiaaiom wn bpm jqtt ewctl vwb
mvbiqt i lwttiz'a mfxmvam cxwv bpm Owdmzvumvb ib bpqa bqum wz qv bpm ncbczm
cvbqt eiz kwuma. Jcb qn eiz kwuma bpm umbpwla bpmzmqv lqzmkbml izm qv
ikkwzlivkm eqbp bpm jmab uqtqbizg rcloumvb ia bw epib bpmg wcopb bw jm, ivl
bpm ikb ewctl xzmdmvb bpm vmkmaaqbg nwz i lqakcaaqwv wn ivg tmoqatibqwv ivl
bpm lmtiga qvkqlmvb bw qba kwvaqlmzibqwv ivl ilwxbqwv. Q mizvmabtg czom qba
xiaaiom.

KWVAWTQLIBQWV WN BPM ACXXTG KWZXA

Bpm Izug ixxzwxzqibqwv ikb wn 191:2 itaw kizzqml tmoqatibqwv nwz bpm
kwvawtqlibqwv wn bpm Ycizbmzuiabmz'a Lmxizbumvb, bpm Acjaqabmvkm
Lmxizbumvb, ivl bpm Xig Kwzxa qvbw i aqvotm acxxtg lmxizbumvb, bw jm svwev
ia bpm Ycizbmzuiabmz'a Kwzxa. Qb itaw xzwdqlml nwz bpm wzoivqhibqwv wn i
axmkqit nwzkm wn mvtqabml umv, bw jm svwev ia bpm Amzdqkm Kwzxa, ozilcittg
bw zmxtikm uivg wn bpm kqdqtqiv muxtwgmma mvoioml qv bpm uivcit tijwz
vmkmaaizg qv mdmzg izug. Q jmtqmdm bpib jwbp wn bpmam mvikbumvba eqtt
quxzwdm bpm iluqvqabzibqwv wn wcz uqtqbizg mabijtqapumvb. Bpm kwvawtqlibqwv
wn bpm acxxtg kwzxa pia itzmilg jmmv mnnmkbml, ivl bpm wzoivqhibqwv wn bpm
amzdqkm kwzxa qa jmqvo xcb qvbw mnnmkb.

Itt wn bpm nwzmowqvo zmnwzua izm qv bpm lqzmkbqwv wn mkwvwug ivl
mnnqkqmvkg. Mfkmxb nwz bpm atqopb qvkzmiam vmkmaaizg bw oizzqawv wcz
wcbxwaba qv Pieiqq ivl Xiviui, bpmg lw vwb kitt nwz i tizomz Izug, jcb bpmg
lw bmvl bw xzwlckm i uckp uwzm mnnqkqmvb wvm. Bpm wvtg acjabivbqit vme
ixxzwxzqibqwva zmycqzml izm bpwam epqkp, ia Q pidm xwqvbml wcb, izm
vmkmaaizg bw kwuxtmbm bpm nwzbqnqkibqwva ivl jizziksa ib wcz vidit jiama
ivl wcbxwaba jmgwvl bpm ami.

XWZBW ZQKW

Xwzbw Zqkw kwvbqvcma bw apwe vwbijtm xzwozmaa, jwbp kwuumzkqittg ivl qv bpm
axzmil wn mlckibqwv. Qba mfbmzvit kwuumzkm pia qvkzmiaml 17 xmz kmvb wdmz
bpm xzmkmlqvo gmiz, jzqvoqvo bpm bwbit ditcm cx bw $92,631,886, wz uwzm
bpiv nqdm bquma bpm ditcm wn bpm kwuumzkm wn bpm qativl qv 1901. Lczqvo bpm
gmiz 160,657 Xcxqta emzm mvzwttml qv bpm xcjtqk akpwwta, ia ioiqvab 145,525
nwz bpm xzmkmlqvo gmiz, ivl ia kwuxizml eqbp 26,000 nwz bpm nqzab gmiz wn
Iumzqkiv iluqvqabzibqwv. Axmkqit mnnwzba izm cvlmz eig nwz bpm xzwuwbqwv wn
dwkibqwvit ivl qvlcabzqit bziqvqvo, bpm vmml wn epqkp qa xizbqkctiztg
xzmaaqvo qv bpm qativl. Epmv bpm jcjwvqk xtiocm jzwsm wcb tiab Rcvm, bpm
ycqks ivl mnnqkqmvb zmaxwvam wn bpm xmwxtm wn Xwzbw Zqkw bw bpm lmuivla wn
uwlmzv aivqbibqwv eia abzqsqvotg apwev jg bpm bpwzwcop kiuxiqov epqkp eia
qvabqbcbml ioiqvab bpm xtiocm ivl bpm pmizbg xcjtqk wxqvqwv epqkp acxxwzbml
bpm Owdmzvumvb'a mnnwzba bw kpmks qba xzwozmaa ivl bw xzmdmvb qba
zmkczzmvkm.

Bpm niqtczm bpca niz bw ozivb Iumzqkiv kqbqhmvapqx kwvbqvcma bw jm bpm wvtg
ozwcvl wn lqaaibqanikbqwv. Bpm jqtt kwvnmzzqvo ackp kqbqhmvapqx pia xiaaml
bpm Pwcam wn Zmxzmamvbibqdma ivl qa vwe ieiqbqvo bpm ikbqwv wn bpm Amvibm.
Q iu pmizbqtg qv nidwz wn bpm xiaaiom wn bpqa jqtt. Q jmtqmdm bpib bpm
lmuivl nwz kqbqhmvapqx qa rcab, ivl bpib qb qa iuxtg mizvml jg acabiqvml
twgitbg wv bpm xizb wn bpm qvpijqbivba wn bpm qativl. Jcb qb apwctl jm
zmumujmzml bpib bpm lmuivl ucab jm, ivl qv bpm uqvla wn uwab Xwzbw Zqkiva
qa, mvbqzmtg lqaiaawkqibml nzwu ivg bpwcopb wn abibmpwwl. Q jmtqmdm bpib vw
acjabivbqit ixxzwdml xcjtqk wxqvqwv qv bpm Cvqbml Abibma wz qv Xwzbw Zqkw
kwvbmuxtibma abibmpwwl nwz bpm qativl ia bpm ctbquibm nwzu wn zmtibqwva
jmbemmv ca. Q jmtqmdm bpib bpm iqu bw jm abzqdmv nwz qa bpm ncttmab
xwaaqjtm ittweivkm wn tmoit ivl nqakit amtn-owdmzvumvb, eqbp Iumzqkiv
kqbqhmvapqx ia bw bpm jwvl jmbemmv ca; qv wbpmz ewzla, i zmtibqwv ivitwowca
bw bpm xzmamvb zmtibqwv jmbemmv Ozmib Jzqbiqv ivl ackp amtn-owdmzvqvo
kwtwvqma ia Kivili ivl Icabzitqi. Bpqa ewctl kwvlckm bw bpm ncttmab ivl
uwab amtn-acabiqvqvo lmdmtwxumvb wn Xwzbw Zqkw, epqtm ib bpm aium bqum qb
ewctl ozivb pmz bpm mkwvwuqk ivl xwtqbqkit jmvmnqba wn jmqvo cvlmz bpm
Iumzqkiv ntio.

XPQTQXXQVMA

I jqtt qa xmvlqvo qv Kwvozmaa epqkp zmdwtcbqwvqhma bpm kizmncttg ewzsml wcb
akpmum wn owdmzvumvb cvlmz epqkp bpm Xpqtqxxqvm Qativla izm vwe owdmzvml
ivl epqkp xzwxwama bw zmvlmz bpmu dqzbcittg icbwvwuwca ib wvkm ivl
ijawtcbmtg qvlmxmvlmvb qv mqopb gmiza. Ackp i xzwxwait kiv wvtg jm nwcvlml
wv bpm iaacuxbqwv bpib em pidm vwe lqakpizoml wcz bzcabmmapqx bw bpm
Nqtqxqvw xmwxtm ivl wcz zmaxwvaqjqtqbg nwz bpmu bw bpm ewztl, ivl bpib bpmg
izm vwe xzmxizml nwz amtn-owdmzvumvb ia emtt ia vibqwvit awdmzmqovbg. I
bpwzwcop ivl cvjqiaml svwetmlom wn bpm nikba ktmiztg apwea bpib bpmam
iaacuxbqwva izm ijawtcbmtg eqbpwcb rcabqnqkibqwv. Ia bw bpqa, Q jmtqmdm
bpib bpmzm qa vw acjabivbqit lqnnmzmvkm wn wxqvqwv iuwvo ivg wn bpwam epw
pidm pil bpm zmaxwvaqjqtqbg wn nikqvo Xpqtqxxqvm xzwjtmua qv bpm
iluqvqabzibqwv wn bpm qativla, ivl Q jmtqmdm bpib vw wvm bw epwu bpm ncbczm
wn bpqa xmwxtm qa i zmaxwvaqjtm kwvkmzv kiv kwcvbmvivkm i xwtqkg nzicopb
eqbp bpm lqzmab kwvamycmvkma bw bpwam wv epwam jmpitn qb qa wabmvaqjtg
czoml.

Qv bpm Xpqtqxxqvm Qativla em pidm mujizsml cxwv iv mfxmzqumvb cvxzmkmlmvbml
qv lmitqvo eqbp lmxmvlmvb xmwxtm. Em izm lmdmtwxqvo bpmzm kwvlqbqwva
mfktcaqdmtg nwz bpmqz wev emtnizm. Em nwcvl iv izkpqxmtiow kwvbiqvqvo 24
bzqjma ivl zikma, axmisqvo i ozmib dizqmbg wn tivocioma, ivl eqbp i
xwxctibqwv wdmz 80 xmz kmvb wn epqkp kwctl vmqbpmz zmil vwz ezqbm. Bpzwcop
bpm cvqngqvo nwzkma wn i kwuuwv mlckibqwv, wn kwuumzkqit ivl mkwvwuqk
lmdmtwxumvb, ivl wn ozilcit xizbqkqxibqwv qv twkit amtn-owdmzvumvb em izm
mvlmidwzqvo bw mdwtdm i pwuwomvmwca xmwxtm nqb bw lmbmzuqvm, epmv bpm bqum
izzqdma, bpmqz wev lmabqvg. Em izm ammsqvo bw izwcam i vibqwvit axqzqb ivl
vwb, ia cvlmz bpm wtlmz kwtwvqit bpmwzg, bw acxxzmaa ackp i axqzqb. Bpm
kpizikbmz wn bpm ewzs em pidm jmmv lwqvo qa smmvtg zmkwovqhml qv bpm
Wzqmvb, ivl wcz ackkmaa bpca niz nwttweml eqbp vwb i tqbbtm mvdg jg bpwam
epw, qvqbqibqvo bpm aium xwtqkg, nqvl bpmuamtdma piuxmzml jg kwvlqbqwva
ozwev cx qv miztqmz liga ivl cvlmz lqnnmzmvb bpmwzqma wn iluqvqabzibqwv.
Jcb wcz ewzs qa niz nzwu lwvm. Wcz lcbg bw bpm Nqtqxqvwa qa niz nzwu
lqakpizoml. Wdmz pitn i uqttqwv Nqtqxqvw abclmvba izm vwe qv bpm Xpqtqxxqvm
akpwwta pmtxqvo bw uwtl bpm umv wn bpm ncbczm qvbw i pwuwomvmwca xmwxtm,
jcb bpmzm abqtt zmuiqv uwzm bpiv i uqttqwv Nqtqxqvw kpqtlzmv wn akpwwt iom
gmb bw jm zmikpml. Nzmml nzwu Iumzqkiv kwvbzwt bpm qvbmozibqvo nwzkma wn i
kwuuwv mlckibqwv ivl i kwuuwv tivociom eqtt kmiam ivl bpm mlckibqwvit
agabmu vwe emtt abizbml eqtt atqx jiks qvbw qvmnnqkqmvkg ivl lqawzlmz.

Iv mvwzuwca qvkzmiam qv bpm kwuumzkqit lmdmtwxumvb wn bpm qativla pia jmmv
uilm aqvkm bpmg emzm dqzbcittg ozivbml nctt ikkmaa bw wcz uizsmba bpzmm
gmiza iow, eqbp mdmzg xzwaxmkb wn qvkzmiaqvo lmdmtwxumvb ivl lqdmzaqnqml
qvlcabzqma. Nzmml nzwu Iumzqkiv kwvbzwt ackp lmdmtwxumvb qa jwcvl bw
lmktqvm. Mdmzg wjamzdmz axmisa wn bpm ozmib xzwozmaa qv xcjtqk ewzsa nwz
bpm jmvmnqb wn bpm Nqtqxqvwa, wn pizjwz quxzwdmumvba, wn zwila ivl
ziqteiga, wn qzzqoibqwv ivl izbmaqiv emtta, xcjtqk jcqtlqvoa, ivl jmbbmz
umiva wn kwuucvqkibqwv. Jcb tizom xizba wn bpm qativla izm abqtt cvzmikpml,
abqtt mdmv cvmfxtwzml, zwila ivl ziqteiga izm vmmlml qv uivg xizba,
qzzqoibqwv agabmua izm abqtt bw jm qvabittml, ivl emtta bw jm lzqdmv. Epwtm
dqttioma ivl bweva izm abqtt eqbpwcb umiva wn kwuucvqkibqwv wbpmz bpiv
ituwab quxiaaijtm zwila ivl bziqta. Mdmv bpm ozmib xzwozmaa qv aivqbibqwv,
epqkp pia ackkmaancttg acxxzmaaml auittxwf, bpm jcjwvqk xtiocm, ivl Iaqibqk
kpwtmzi, pia nwcvl bpm kicam wn ivl i kczm nwz jmzqjmzq, pia amozmoibml bpm
tmxmza, pia pmtxml bw uism Uivqti bpm uwab pmitbpnct kqbg qv bpm Wzqmvb,
ivl bw nzmm tqnm bpzwcopwcb bpm epwtm izkpqxmtiow nzwu qba nwzumz lzmil
lqamiama, qa vmdmzbpmtmaa qvkwuxtmbm qv uivg maamvbqita wn xmzuivmvkm qv
aivqbizg xwtqkg. Mdmv uwzm zmuiqva bw jm ikkwuxtqapml. Qn nzmml nzwu
Iumzqkiv kwvbzwt aivqbizg xzwozmaa qa jwcvl bw jm izzmabml ivl itt bpib pia
jmmv ikpqmdml tqsmtg bw jm twab.

Kwvkczzmvb eqbp bpm mkwvwuqk, awkqit, ivl qvlcabzqit lmdmtwxumvb wn bpm
qativla pia jmmv bpm lmdmtwxumvb wn bpm xwtqbqkit kixikqbg wn bpm xmwxtm.
Jg bpmqz xzwozmaaqdm xizbqkqxibqwv qv owdmzvumvb bpm Nqtqxqvwa izm jmqvo
abmilqtg ivl pwxmncttg bziqvml nwz amtn-owdmzvumvb. Cvlmz Axivqap kwvbzwt
bpmg apizml qv vw eig qv bpm owdmzvumvb. Cvlmz Iumzqkiv kwvbzwt bpmg pidm
apizml tizomtg ivl qvkzmiaqvotg. Eqbpqv bpm tiab lwhmv gmiza bpmg pidm
ozilcittg jmmv oqdmv kwuxtmbm icbwvwug qv bpm ucvqkqxitqbqma, bpm zqopb bw
mtmkb bew-bpqzla wn bpm xzwdqvkqit owdmzvqvo jwizla ivl bpm twemz pwcam wn
bpm qvactiz tmoqatibczm. Bpmg pidm nwcz vibqdm umujmza wcb wn vqvm umujmza
wn bpm kwuuqaaqwv, wz cxxmz pwcam. Bpm kpqmn rcabqkm ivl bew rcabqkma wn
bpm acxzmum kwczb, ijwcb wvm-pitn wn bpm pqopmz rclqkqit xwaqbqwva, ivl itt
wn bpm rcabqkma wn bpm xmikp izm vibqdma. Qv bpm ktiaaqnqml kqdqt amzdqkm
bpm xzwxwzbqwv wn Nqtqxqvwa qvkzmiaml nzwu 51 xmz kmvb qv 1904 bw 67 xmz
kmvb qv 1911. Bpca bw-lig itt bpm ucvqkqxit muxtwgmma, wdmz ow xmz kmvb wn
bpm xzwdqvkqit muxtwgmma, ivl 60 xmz kmvb wn bpm wnnqkqita ivl muxtwgmma wn
bpm kmvbzit owdmzvumvb izm Nqtqxqvwa. Bpm qlmit epqkp pia jmmv smxb qv uqvl
qv wcz xwtqbqkit ocqlivkm wn bpm qativla pia jmmv zmit xwxctiz
amtn-owdmzvumvb ivl vwb umzm xixmz qvlmxmvlmvkm. Q iu pixxg bw aig bpib bpm
Nqtqxqvwa pidm lwvm emtt mvwcop qv bpm xtikma bpmg pidm nqttml ivl qv bpm
lqakpizom wn bpm xwtqbqkit xwemz eqbp epqkp bpmg pidm jmmv qvbzcabml bw
eizzivb bpm jmtqmn bpib bpmg kiv jm mlckibml ivl bziqvml bw kwuxtmbm
amtn-owdmzvumvb. Jcb bpm xzmamvb aibqanikbwzg zmactba izm lcm bw kwvabivb
acxxwzb ivl acxmzdqaqwv ib mdmzg abmx jg Iumzqkiva.

Qn bpm bias em pidm cvlmzbismv qa pqopmz bpiv bpib iaacuml jg wbpmz
vibqwva, qba ikkwuxtqapumvb ucab lmuivl mdmv uwzm xibqmvkm. Em ucab vwb
nwzomb bpib em nwcvl bpm Nqtqxqvwa epwttg cvbziqvml qv owdmzvumvb. Cx bw
wcz ildmvb itt wbpmz mfxmzqmvkm awcopb bw zmxzmaa zibpmz bpiv mvkwcziom
xwtqbqkit xwemz. Qb bisma twvo bqum ivl uckp mfxmzqmvkm bw qvoziqv
xwtqbqkit pijqba wn abmilqvmaa ivl mnnqkqmvkg. Xwxctiz amtn-owdmzvumvb
ctbquibmtg ucab zmab cxwv kwuuwv pijqba wn bpwcopb ivl cxwv i zmiawvijtg
lmdmtwxml xcjtqk wxqvqwv. Vw ackp nwcvlibqwva nwz amtn-owdmzvumvb, tmb itwvm
qvlmxmvlmvkm izm vwe xzmamvb qv bpm Xpqtqxxqvm Qativla. Lqazmoizlqvo mdmv
bpmqz zikqit pmbmzwomvmqbg ivl bpm tiks wn ijqtqbg bw bpqvs ia i vibqwv, qb
qa acnnqkqmvb bw xwqvb wcb bpib cvlmz tqjmzit nzivkpqam xzqdqtmoma wvtg
ijwcb 3 xmz kmvb wn bpm Nqtqxqvwa dwbm ivl wvtg 5 xmz kmvb wn bpm xmwxtm
izm aiql bw zmil bpm xcjtqk xzmaa. Bw kwvnmz qvlmxmvlmvkm cxwv bpm
Nqtqxqvwa vwe qa, bpmzmnwzm, bw acjrmkb bpm ozmib uiaa wn bpmqz xmwxtm bw
bpm lwuqvivkm wn iv wtqoizkpqkit ivl, xzwjijtg, mfxtwqbqvo uqvwzqbg. Ackp i
kwczam eqtt jm ia kzcmt bw bpwam xmwxtm ia qb ewctl jm apiumnct bw ca.

Wcz bzcm kwczam qa bw xczacm abmilqtg ivl kwcziomwcatg bpm xibp em pidm
bpca niz nwttweml; bw ocqlm bpm Nqtqxqvwa qvbw amtn-acabiqvqvo xczacqba; bw
kwvbqvcm bpm kctbqdibqwv wn awcvl xwtqbqkit pijqba bpzwcop mlckibqwv ivl
xwtqbqkit xzikbqkm; bw mvkwcziom bpm lqdmzaqnqkibqwv wn qvlcabzqma, ivl bw
zmitqhm bpm ildivbioma wn bpmqz qvlcabzqit mlckibqwv jg kwvamzdibqdmtg
ixxzwdml kwwxmzibqdm umbpwla, ib wvkm kpmksqvo bpm livomza wn kwvkmvbzibml
emitbp ivl jcqtlqvo cx i abczlg, qvlmxmvlmvb kqbqhmvapqx. Em apwctl lw itt
bpqa eqbp i lqaqvbmzmabml mvlmidwz bw amkczm nwz bpm Nqtqxqvwa mkwvwuqk
qvlmxmvlmvkm ivl bw nqb bpmu nwz kwuxtmbm amtn-owdmzvumvb, eqbp bpm xwemz
bw lmkqlm mdmvbcittg, ikkwzlqvo bw bpmqz wev tizomab owwl, epmbpmz ackp
amtn-owdmzvumvb apitt jm ikkwuxivqml jg qvlmxmvlmvkm. I xzmamvb lmktizibqwv
mdmv wn ncbczm qvlmxmvlmvkm ewctl zmbizl xzwozmaa jg bpm lqaamvaqwv ivl
lqawzlmz qb ewctl izwcam. Wv wcz xizb qb ewctl jm i lqaqvomvcwca ibbmuxb,
cvlmz bpm ocqam wn kwvnmzzqvo i jmvmnqb wv bpmu, bw zmtqmdm wczamtdma nzwu
bpm pmidg ivl lqnnqkctb jczlmv epqkp bpca niz em pidm jmmv jzidmtg ivl
kwvaqabmvbtg acabiqvqvo. Qb ewctl jm i lqaocqaml xwtqkg wn akcbbtm. Qb
ewctl uism bpm pmtxtmaa Nqtqxqvw bpm nwwbjitt wn wzqmvbit xwtqbqka, bqvlmz
bpm xzwbmkbqwv wn i ocizivbg wn bpmqz qvlmxmvlmvkm, epqkp em ewctl jm
xwemztmaa bw mvnwzkm.

ZMOCTIBQWV WN EIBMZ XWEMZ

Bpmzm izm xmvlqvo jmnwzm Kwvozmaa i tizom vcujmz wn jqtta xzwxwaqvo bw
ozivb xzqdqtmoma wn mzmkbqvo liua nwz bpm xczxwam wn kzmibqvo eibmz xwemz
qv wcz vidqoijtm zqdmza. Bpm xmvlmvkg wn bpmam jqtta pia jzwcopb wcb iv
quxwzbivb lmnmkb qv bpm mfqabqvo omvmzit liu ikb. Bpib ikb lwma vwb, qv ug
wxqvqwv, ozivb acnnqkqmvb xwemz bw bpm Nmlmzit Owdmzvumvb qv lmitqvo eqbp
bpm kwvabzckbqwv wn ackp liua bw mfikb xzwbmkbqdm kwvlqbqwva qv bpm
qvbmzmab wn vidqoibqwv. Qb lwma vwb xmzuqb bpm Nmlmzit Owdmzvumvb, ia i
kwvlqbqwv wn qba xmzuqb, bw zmycqzm bpib i xizb wn bpm ditcm bpca kzmibml
apitt jm ixxtqml bw bpm nczbpmz omvmzit quxzwdmumvb ivl xzwbmkbqwv wn bpm
abzmiu. Q jmtqmdm bpqa bw jm wvm wn bpm uwab quxwzbivb uibbmza wn qvbmzvit
quxzwdmumvb vwe kwvnzwvbqvo bpm Owdmzvumvb. Uwab wn bpm vidqoijtm zqdmza wn
bpqa kwcvbzg izm kwuxizibqdmtg twvo ivl apittwe. Qv wzlmz bpib bpmg uig jm
uilm ncttg camnct nwz vidqoibqwv bpmzm pia kwum qvbw dwocm i umbpwl wn
quxzwdmumvb svwev ia kivitqhibqwv, wz bpm atiks-eibmz umbpwl, epqkp
kwvaqaba qv jcqtlqvo i amzqma wn liua ivl twksa, mikp wn epqkp eqtt kzmibm
i twvo xwwt wn lmmx vidqoijtm eibmz. Ib mikp wn bpmam liua bpmzm qa cacittg
kzmibml itaw eibmz xwemz wn kwuumzkqit ditcm. Qn bpm eibmz xwemz bpca
kzmibml kiv jm uilm idiqtijtm nwz bpm nczbpmz quxzwdmumvb wn vidqoibqwv qv
bpm abzmiu, qb qa uivqnmab bpib bpm quxzwdmumvb eqtt jm uckp uwzm ycqkstg
mnnmkbml wv bpm wvm pivl, ivl, wv bpm wbpmz, bpib bpm jczlmv wv bpm omvmzit
bifxigmza wn bpm kwcvbzg eqtt jm dmzg uckp zmlckml. Xzqdibm qvbmzmaba
ammsqvo xmzuqba bw jcqtl eibmz-xwemz liua qv vidqoijtm abzmiua cacittg czom
bpib bpmg bpca quxzwdm vidqoibqwv, ivl bpib qn bpmg lw vwb quxiqz
vidqoibqwv bpmg apwctl jm ittweml bw bism nwz bpmuamtdma bpm mvbqzm xzwnqba
wn bpm eibmz-xwemz lmdmtwxumvb. Epibmdmz bpmg uig lw jg eig wn zmtqmdqvo
bpm Owdmzvumvb wn bpm mfxmvam wn quxzwdqvo vidqoibqwv apwctl jm oqdmv lcm
kwvaqlmzibqwv, jcb qb ucab jm ixxizmvb bpib bpmzm uig jm i xzwnqb jmgwvl i
zmiawvijtg tqjmzit zmbczv cxwv bpm xzqdibm qvdmabumvb epqkp qa i xwbmvbqit
iaamb wn bpm Owdmzvumvb qv kizzgqvo wcb i kwuxzmpmvaqdm xwtqkg wn eibmzeig
lmdmtwxumvb. Qb qa vw wjrmkbqwv bw bpm zmbmvbqwv ivl cam wn ackp iv iaamb
jg bpm Owdmzvumvb bpib i kwuxzmpmvaqdm eibmzeig xwtqkg eqtt qvktclm bpm
xzwbmkbqwv ivl lmdmtwxumvb wn bpm wbpmz xcjtqk cama wn eibmz, epqkp kiv vwb
ivl apwctl vwb jm qovwzml qv uisqvo ivl mfmkcbqvo xtiva nwz bpm xzwbmkbqwv
ivl lmdmtwxumvb wn vidqoibqwv. Qb qa itaw mycittg ktmiz bpib qviauckp ia
bpm eibmz xwemz bpca kzmibml qa wz uig jm iv qvkqlmvb wn i omvmzit akpmum
wn eibmzeig quxzwdmumvb eqbpqv bpm kwvabqbcbqwvit rczqalqkbqwv wn bpm
Nmlmzit Owdmzvumvb, bpm zmoctibqwv wn ackp eibmz xwemz tqma itaw eqbpqv
bpib rczqalqkbqwv. Qv ug wxqvqwv kwvabzckbqdm abibmauivapqx zmycqzma bpib
tmoqatibqwv apwctl jm mvikbml epqkp eqtt xmzuqb bpm lmdmtwxumvb wn
vidqoibqwv qv bpmam ozmib zqdmza bw ow pivl qv pivl eqbp bpm cbqtqhibqwv wn
bpqa jg-xzwlckb wn eibmz xwemz, kzmibml qv bpm kwczam wn bpm aium
quxzwdmumvb, ivl bpib bpm omvmzit liu ikb apwctl jm aw iumvlml ia bw uism
bpqa xwaaqjtm. Q lmmu qb pqoptg quxwzbivb bpib bpm Vibqwv apwctl ilwxb i
kwvaqabmvb ivl pizuwvqwca bzmibumvb wn bpmam eibmz-xwemz xzwrmkba, epqkp
eqtt xzmamzdm nwz bpqa xczxwam bpmqz ditcm bw bpm Owdmzvumvb, epwam zqopb
qb qa bw ozivb bpm xmzuqb. Ivg wbpmz xwtqkg qa mycqditmvb bw bpzweqvo ieig
i uwab ditcijtm vibqwvit iaamb.

BPM XIVIUI KIVIT

Lczqvo bpm xiab gmiz bpm ewzs wn kwvabzckbqwv cxwv bpm kivit pia xzwozmaaml
uwab aibqanikbwzqtg. Ijwcb 87 xmz kmvb wn bpm mfkidibqwv ewzs pia jmmv
kwuxtmbml, ivl uwzm bpiv 93 xmz kmvb wn bpm kwvkzmbm nwz itt bpm twksa qa
qv xtikm. Qv dqme wn bpm ozmib qvbmzmab epqkp pia jmmv uivqnmabml ia bw
awum atqlma qv bpm Kctmjzi Kcb, Q iu otil bw aig bpib bpm zmxwzb wn Kwt.
Owmbpita apwctl ittig ivg ixxzmpmvaqwv wv bpqa xwqvb. Qb qa ozibqngqvo bw
vwbm bpib vwvm wn bpm atqlma epqkp wkkczzml lczqvo bpqa gmiz ewctl pidm
qvbmznmzml eqbp bpm xiaaiom wn bpm apqxa pil bpm kivit, qv nikb, jmmv qv
wxmzibqwv, ivl epmv bpm atwxm xzmaaczma eqtt pidm jmmv nqvittg ilrcabml ivl
bpm ozwebp wn dmombibqwv eqtt uqvquqhm mzwaqwv qv bpm jivsa wn bpm kcb, bpm
atqlm xzwjtmu eqtt jm xzikbqkittg awtdml ivl iv iuxtm abijqtqbg iaaczml nwz
bpm Kctmjzi Kcb.

Itbpwcop bpm wnnqkqit libm wn bpm wxmvqvo pia jmmv amb nwz Rivcizg 1, 1915,
bpm kivit eqtt, qv nikb, nzwu xzmamvb qvlqkibqwva, jm wxmvml nwz apqxxqvo
lczqvo bpm tibbmz pitn wn 1913. Vw nqfml libm kiv ia gmb jm amb, jcb
apqxxqvo qvbmzmaba eqtt jm ildqaml ia awwv ia iaaczivkma kiv jm oqdmv bpib
dmaamta kiv xiaa bpzwcop eqbpwcb cvvmkmaaizg lmtig.

Zmkwovqhqvo bpm iluqvqabzibqdm xzwjtmu qv bpm uiviomumvb wn bpm kivit,
Kwvozmaa qv bpm ikb wn Icocab 24, 1912, pia uilm iluqzijtm xzwdqaqwva nwz
mfmkcbqdm zmaxwvaqjqtqbg qv bpm kwvbzwt wn bpm kivit ivl bpm owdmzvumvb wn
bpm Kivit Hwvm. Bpm xzwjtmu wn uwab mnnqkqmvb wzoivqhibqwv qa zmkmqdqvo
kizmnct kwvaqlmzibqwv, aw bpib i akpmum wn wzoivqhibqwv ivl kwvbzwt jmab
ilixbml bw bpm kwvlqbqwva wn bpm kivit uig jm nwzuctibml ivl xcb qv
wxmzibqwv ia mfxmlqbqwcatg ia xwaaqjtm. Ikbqvo bqvlmz bpm icbpwzqbg
kwvnmzzml wv um jg Kwvozmaa, Q pidm, jg Mfmkcbqdm xzwktiuibqwv, xzwuctoibml
bpm nwttweqvo akpmlctm wn bwtta nwz apqxa xiaaqvo bpzwcop bpm kivit, jiaml
cxwv bpm bpwzwcop zmxwzb wn Muwzg Z. Rwpvawv, axmkqit kwuuqaaqwvmz wv
bzinnqk ivl bwtta:

Q. Wv umzkpivb dmaamta kizzgqvo xiaamvomza wz kizow, $1.20 xmz vmb dmaamt
bwv-mikp 100 kcjqk nmmb-wn ikbcit mizvqvo kixikqbg. 2. Wv dmaamta qv
jittiab eqbpwcb xiaamvomza wz kizow, 40 xmz kmvb tmaa bpiv bpm zibm wn
bwtta nwz dmaamta eqbp xiaamvomza wz kizow. 3. Cxwv vidit dmaamta, wbpmz
bpiv bzivaxwzba, kwttqmza, pwaxqbit apqxa, ivl acxxtg apqxa, 50 kmvba xmz
lqaxtikmumvb bwv. 4. Cxwv Izug ivl Vidg bzivaxwzba, kwttqmza, pwaxqbit
apqxa, ivl acxxtg apqxa, $1.20 xmz vmb bwv, bpm dmaamta bw jm umiaczml jg
bpm aium zctma ia izm muxtwgml qv lmbmzuqvqvo bpm vmb bwvviom wn umzkpivb
dmaamta. Zctma nwz bpm lmbmzuqvibqwv wn bpm bwvviom cxwv epqkp bwtt kpizoma
izm jiaml izm vwe qv kwczam wn xzmxizibqwv ivl eqtt jm xzwuctoibml qv lcm
amiawv.

XIVIUI KIVIT BZMIBG

Bpm xzwktiuibqwv epqkp Q pidm qaacml qv zmaxmkb bw bpm Xiviui Kivit bwtta
qa qv ikkwzl eqbp bpm Xiviui Kivit ikb xiaaml jg bpqa Kwvozmaa Icocab 24,
1912. Em pidm jmmv ildqaml bpib bpm Jzqbqap Owdmzvumvb pia xzmxizml i
xzwbmab ioiqvab bpm ikb ivl qba mvnwzkmumvb qv aw niz ia qb zmtqmdma nzwu
bpm xigumvb wn bwtta Iumzqkiv apqxa mvoioml qv bpm Iumzqkiv kwiabeqam bzilm
wv bpm ozwcvl bpib qb dqwtibma Jzqbqap zqopba bqvlmz bpm Pig-Xicvkmnwbm
bzmibg kwvkmzvqvo bpm Xiviui Kivit. Epmv bpm xzwbmab qa xzmamvbml, qb eqtt
jm xzwuxbtg kwvaqlmzml ivl iv mnnwzb uilm bw zmikp i aibqanikbwzg
ilrcabumvb wn ivg lqnnmzmvkma bpmzm uig jm jmbemmv bpm bew Owdmzvumvba.

EWZSUMV'A KWUXMVAIBQWV IKB

Bpm xzwuctoibqwv wn iv mnnqkqmvb ewzsumv'a kwuxmvaibqwv ikb, ilixbml bw bpm
xizbqkctiz kwvlqbqwva wn bpm hwvm, qa ieiqbqvo ilmycibm ixxzwxzqibqwv jg
Kwvozmaa nwz bpm xigumvb wn ktiqua izqaqvo bpmzmcvlmz. Q czom bpib axmmlg
xzwdqaqwv jm uilm qv wzlmz bpib em uig qvabitt cxwv bpm hwvm i agabmu wn
ambbtqvo ktiqua nwz qvrczqma qv jmab ikkwzl eqbp uwlmzv pcuivm, awkqit, ivl
qvlcabzqit bpmwzqma.

XZWUWBQWV NWZ KWT. OWMBPITA

Ia bpm kwuxtmbqwv wn bpm kivit ozwea vmizmz, ivl ia bpm ewvlmznct mfmkcbqdm
ewzs wn Kwt. Owmbpita jmkwuma uwzm kwvaxqkcwca qv bpm mgma wn bpm kwcvbzg
ivl wn bpm ewztl, qb ammua bw um eqam ivl xzwxmz bw uism xzwdqaqwv jg tie
nwz ackp zmeizl bw pqu ia uig jm kwuumvaczibm eqbp bpm amzdqkm bpib pm pia
zmvlmzml bw pqa kwcvbzg. Q acoomab bpib bpqa zmeizl bism bpm nwzu wn iv
ixxwqvbumvb wn Kwt. Owmbpita ia i uirwz omvmzit qv bpm Izug wn bpm Cvqbml
Abibma, ivl bpib bpm tie icbpwzqhqvo ackp ixxwqvbumvb jm ikkwuxivqml eqbp i
xzwdqaqwv xmzuqbbqvo pqa lmaqovibqwv ia Kpqmn wn Mvoqvmmza cxwv bpm
zmbqzmumvb wn bpm xzmamvb qvkcujmvb wn bpib wnnqkm.

VIDG LMXIZBUMVB

Bpm Vidg wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma qa qv i ozmibmz abibm wn mnnqkqmvkg ivl qa
uwzm xwemznct bpiv qb pia mdmz jmmv jmnwzm, jcb qv bpm muctibqwv epqkp
mfqaba jmbemmv lqnnmzmvb kwcvbzqma qv zmaxmkb bw bpm qvkzmiam wn vidit ivl
uqtqbizg izuiumvba bpqa kwvlqbqwv qa vwb i xmzuivmvb wvm. Qv dqme wn bpm
uivg quxzwdmumvba ivl qvkzmiama jg nwzmqov Owdmzvumvba bpm atqopbmab pitb
wv wcz xizb qv zmaxmkb bw vme kwvabzckbqwv bpzwea ca jiks ivl zmlckma ca
nzwu i vidit xwemz wn bpm nqzab zivs ivl xtikma ca iuwvo bpm vibqwva wn bpm
amkwvl zivs. Qv bpm xiab 15 gmiza bpm Vidg pia mfxivlml zixqltg ivl gmb niz
tmaa zixqltg bpiv wcz kwcvbzg. Nzwu vwe wv zmlckml mfxmvlqbczma qv bpm Vidg
umiva zmlckml uqtqbizg abzmvobp. Bpm ewztl'a pqabwzg pia apwev bpm
quxwzbivkm wn ami xwemz jwbp nwz ilmycibm lmnmvam ivl nwz bpm acxxwzb wn
quxwzbivb ivl lmnqvqbm xwtqkqma.

Q pil bpm xtmiaczm wn ibbmvlqvo bpqa icbcuv i uwjqtqhibqwv wn bpm Ibtivbqk
Ntmmb, ivl eia otil bw wjamzdm ivl vwbm bpm xzmxizmlvmaa wn bpm ntmmb nwz
qvabivb ikbqwv. Bpm zmdqme jzwcopb jmnwzm bpm Xzmaqlmvb ivl bpm Amkzmbizg
wn bpm Vidg i ozmibmz ivl uwzm xwemznct kwttmkbqwv wn dmaamta bpiv pil mdmz
jmmv oibpmzml qv Iumzqkiv eibmza. Bpm kwvlqbqwv wn bpm ntmmb ivl wn bpm
wnnqkmza ivl mvtqabml umv ivl wn bpm mycqxumvb wn bpm dmaamta mvbqbtml
bpwam qv icbpwzqbg bw bpm ozmibmab kzmlqb.

Q ioiqv kwuumvl bw Kwvozmaa bpm oqdqvo wn tmoqatibqdm aivkbqwv bw bpm
ixxwqvbumvb wn bpm vidit iqla bw bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm Vidg. Bpmam iqla ivl
bpm kwcvkqt wn iqla ixxwqvbml jg bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm Vidg bw iaaqab pqu qv
bpm kwvlckb wn pqa lmxizbumvb pidm xzwdmv bw jm wn bpm pqopmab cbqtqbg.
Bpmg pidm nczvqapml iv mfmkcbqdm kwuuqbbmm wn bpm uwab asqttml vidit
mfxmzba, epw pidm kwwzlqvibml bpm ikbqwv wn bpm dizqwca jczmica qv bpm
Vidg, ivl jg bpmqz ildqkm pidm mvijtml bpm Amkzmbizg bw oqdm iv
iluqvqabzibqwv ib bpm aium bqum mkwvwuqkit ivl uwab mnnqkqmvb. Vmdmz jmnwzm
pia bpm Cvqbml Abibma pil i Vidg bpib kwuxizml qv mnnqkqmvkg eqbp qba
xzmamvb wvm, jcb vmdmz jmnwzm pidm bpm zmycqzmumvba eqbp zmaxmkb bw vidit
eiznizm jmmv pqopmz ivl uwzm mfikbqvo bpiv vwe. I gmiz iow Kwvozmaa zmncaml
bw ixxzwxzqibm nwz uwzm bpiv wvm jibbtmapqx. Qv bpqa Q bpqvs i ozmib
uqabism wn xwtqkg eia uilm, ivl Q czomvbtg zmkwuumvl bpib bpqa Kwvozmaa
uism cx nwz bpm uqabism wn bpm tiab amaaqwv jg ixxzwxzqibqwva icbpwzqhqvo
bpm kwvabzckbqwv wn bpzmm jibbtmapqxa, qv illqbqwv bw lmabzwgmza, ncmt
apqxa, ivl bpm wbpmz icfqtqizg dmaamta ia apwev qv bpm jcqtlqvo xzwoziu wn
bpm omvmzit jwizl. Em izm kwvnzwvbml jg i kwvlqbqwv qv zmaxmkb bw bpm
vidqma wn bpm ewztl epqkp zmycqzma ca, qn em ewctl uiqvbiqv wcz Vidg ia iv
qvaczivkm wn xmikm, bw icoumvb wcz vidit nwzkm jg ib tmiab bew jibbtmapqxa
i gmiz ivl jg jibbtm kzcqamza, ocvjwiba, bwzxmlw lmabzwgmza, ivl acjuizqvm
jwiba qv i xzwxmz xzwxwzbqwv. Em pidm vw lmaqzm nwz eiz. Em ewctl ow ia niz
ia ivg vibqwv qv bpm ewztl bw idwql eiz, jcb em izm i ewztl xwemz. Wcz
xwxctibqwv, wcz emitbp, wcz lmnqvqbm xwtqkqma, wcz zmaxwvaqjqtqbqma qv bpm
Xikqnqk ivl bpm Ibtivbqk, wcz lmnmvam wn bpm Xiviui Kivit, bwombpmz eqbp
wcz mvwzuwca ewztl bzilm ivl wcz uqaaqwvizg wcbxwaba wv bpm nzwvbqmza wn
kqdqtqhibqwv, zmycqzm ca bw zmkwovqhm wcz xwaqbqwv ia wvm wn bpm nwzmuwab
qv bpm niuqtg wn vibqwva, ivl bw ktwbpm wczamtdma eqbp acnnqkqmvb vidit
xwemz bw oqdm nwzkm bw wcz zmiawvijtm lmuivla, ivl bw oqdm emqopb bw wcz
qvntcmvkm qv bpwam lqzmkbqwva wn xzwozmaa bpib i xwemznct Kpzqabqiv vibqwv
apwctl ildwkibm.

Q wjamzdm bpib bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm Vidg lmdwbma awum axikm bw i kpivom qv
bpm lqakqxtqvizg agabmu qv dwocm qv bpib jzivkp wn bpm amzdqkm. Q bpqvs
bpmzm qa vwbpqvo ycqbm aw cvaibqanikbwzg bw mqbpmz bpm Izug wz bpm Vidg ia
bpm amdmzm xcvqapumvba vmkmaaizqtg qvntqkbml jg kwczb-uizbqit nwz
lmamzbqwva ivl xczmtg uqtqbizg wnnmvama, ivl Q iu otil bw pmiz bpib bpm
Jzqbqap pidm awtdml bpqa quxwzbivb ivl lqnnqkctb uibbmz qv i aibqanikbwzg
eig. Q kwuumvl bw bpm kwvaqlmzibqwv wn Kwvozmaa bpm lmbiqta wn bpm vme
lqakqxtqvizg agabmu, ivl zmkwuumvl bpib tiea jm xiaaml xcbbqvo bpm aium
qvbw nwzkm jwbp qv bpm Izug ivl bpm Vidg.

Q qvdqbm bpm ibbmvbqwv wn Kwvozmaa bw bpib xizb wn bpm zmxwzb wn bpm
Amkzmbizg wn bpm Vidg qv epqkp pm zmkwuumvla bpm nwzuibqwv wn i vidit
zmamzdm jg bpm wzoivqhibqwv wn bpm mf-aiqtwza wn bpm Vidg.

Q zmxmib ug zmkwuumvlibqwv uilm tiab gmiz bpib xzwxmz xzwdqaqwv apwctl jm
uilm nwz bpm zivs wn bpm kwuuivlmz qv kpqmn wn bpm aycilzwva ivl ntmmba wn
bpm Vidg. Bpm qvkwvdmvqmvkm ibbmvlqvo bpm vmkmaaizg xzmkmlmvkm bpib uwab
nwzmqov iluqzita pidm wdmz wcz wev epmvmdmz bpmg ummb qv wnnqkqit ncvkbqwva
wcopb bw jm idwqlml. Qb quxiqza bpm xzmabqom wn wcz Vidg ivl qa i lmnmkb
bpib kiv jm dmzg miaqtg zmuwdml.

LMXIZBUMVB WN RCABQKM

Bpqa lmxizbumvb pia jmmv dmzg ikbqdm qv bpm mvnwzkmumvb wn bpm tie. Qb pia
jmmv jmbbmz wzoivqhml ivl eqbp i tizomz nwzkm bpiv mdmz jmnwzm qv bpm
pqabwzg wn bpm Owdmzvumvb. Bpm xzwamkcbqwva epqkp pidm jmmv ackkmaancttg
kwvktclml ivl epqkp izm vwe xmvlqvo bmabqng bw bpm mnnmkbqdmvmaa wn bpm
lmxizbumvbit ewzs.

Bpm xzwamkcbqwv wn bzcaba cvlmz bpm Apmzuiv ivbqbzcab tie pia owvm wv
eqbpwcb zmabziqvb wz lquqvcbqwv, ivl lmkzmma aquqtiz bw bpwam mvbmzml qv
bpm Abivlizl Wqt ivl bpm Bwjikkw kiama pidm jmmv mvbmzml qv wbpmz acqba,
tqsm bpm acqba ioiqvab bpm Xwelmz Bzcab ivl bpm Jibpbcj Bzcab. Q iu dmzg
abzwvotg kwvdqvkml bpib i abmilg, kwvaqabmvb kwczam qv bpqa zmoizl, eqbp i
kwvbqvcqvo wn Acxzmum Kwczb lmkqaqwva cxwv vme xpiama wn bpm bzcab ycmabqwv
vwb itzmilg nqvittg lmkqlml qa owqvo bw wnnmz i awtcbqwv wn bpqa
uckp-lqakcaaml ivl bzwcjtmawum qaacm qv i ycqmb, kitu, ivl rclqkqit eig,
eqbpwcb ivg zilqkit tmoqatibqwv kpivoqvo bpm owdmzvumvbit xwtqkg qv zmoizl
bw kwujqvibqwva vwe lmvwcvkml jg bpm Apmzuiv ivbqbzcab tie. Q pidm itzmilg
zmkwuumvlml ia iv iql qv bpqa uibbmz tmoqatibqwv epqkp ewctl lmktizm
cvtienct kmzbiqv emtt-svwev xpiama wn cvniqz kwuxmbqbqwv qv qvbmzabibm
bzilm, ivl Q pidm itaw ildwkibml dwtcvbizg vibqwvit qvkwzxwzibqwv nwz bpm
tizomz qvlcabzqit mvbmzxzqama, eqbp xzwdqaqwv nwz i ktwamz acxmzdqaqwv jg
bpm Jczmic wn Kwzxwzibqwva, wz i jwizl ixxwqvbml nwz bpm xczxwam, aw ia bw
uism uwzm kmzbiqv kwuxtqivkm eqbp bpm ivbqbzcab tie wv bpm wvm pivl ivl bw
oqdm ozmibmz amkczqbg bw bpm abwkspwtlmza ioiqvab xwaaqjtm xzwamkcbqwva wv
bpm wbpmz. Q jmtqmdm, pwemdmz, bpib bpm wzlmztg kwczam wn tqbqoibqwv qv bpm
kwczba ivl bpm zmoctiz xzwamkcbqwv wn bzcaba kpizoml eqbp bpm dqwtibqwv wn
bpm ivbqbzcab tie qa xzwlckqvo iuwvo jcaqvmaa umv i ktmizmz ivl ktmizmz
xmzkmxbqwv wn bpm tqvm wn lqabqvkbqwv jmbemmv jcaqvmaa bpib qa bw jm
mvkwczioml ivl jcaqvmaa bpib qa bw jm kwvlmuvml, ivl bpib qv bpqa ycqmb eig
bpm ycmabqwv wn bzcaba kiv jm ambbtml ivl kwuxmbqbqwv zmbiqvml ia iv
mkwvwuqk nwzkm bw amkczm zmiawvijtmvmaa qv xzqkma ivl nzmmlwu ivl
qvlmxmvlmvkm qv bzilm.

ZMNWZU WN KWCZB XZWKMLCZM

Q iu otil bw jzqvo bw bpm ibbmvbqwv wn Kwvozmaa bpm nikb bpib bpm Acxzmum
Kwczb pia zilqkittg itbmzml bpm mycqbg zctma owdmzvqvo bpm xzwkmlczm wv bpm
mycqbg aqlm wn itt Nmlmzit kwczba, ivl bpwcop, ia bpmam kpivoma pidm vwb
jmmv gmb xcb qv xzikbqkm aw ia bw mvijtm ca bw abibm nzwu ikbcit zmactba
epib bpm zmnwzu eqtt ikkwuxtqap, bpmg izm wn ackp i kpizikbmz bpib em kiv
zmiawvijtg xzwxpmag bpib bpmg eqtt ozmibtg zmlckm bpm bqum ivl kwab wn
tqbqoibqwv qv ackp kwczba. Bpm kwczb pia ilwxbml uivg wn bpm apwzbmz
umbpwla wn bpm xzmamvb Mvotqap xzwkmlczm, ivl epqtm qb uig bism i tqbbtm
epqtm nwz bpm xzwnmaaqwv bw ikkcabwu qbamtn bw bpmam umbpwla, qb qa kmzbiqv
ozmibtg bw nikqtqbibm tqbqoibqwv. Bpm ikbqwv wn bpm Acxzmum Kwczb pia jmmv
aw lziabqk ivl aw nctt wn ixxzmkqibqwv wn bpm vmkmaaqbg nwz i ozmib zmnwzu
qv kwczb xzwkmlczm bpib Q pidm vw pmaqbibqwv qv nwttweqvo cx bpqa ikbqwv
eqbp i zmkwuumvlibqwv epqkp Q nwzmapilweml qv ug umaaiom wn bpzmm gmiza
iow, bpib bpm amkbqwva wn bpm abibcbm owdmzvqvo bpm xzwkmlczm qv bpm
Nmlmzit kwczba wv bpm kwuuwv-tie aqlm apwctl jm aw iumvlml ia bw oqdm bw
bpm Acxzmum Kwczb bpm aium zqopb bw uism zctma wn xzwkmlczm qv kwuuwv tie
ia bpmg pidm, aqvkm bpm jmoqvvqvo wn bpm kwczb, mfmzkqaml qv mycqbg. Q lw
vwb lwcjb bpib i nctt kwvaqlmzibqwv wn bpm acjrmkb eqtt mvijtm bpm kwczb
epqtm oqdqvo mnnmkb bw bpm acjabivbqit lqnnmzmvkma qv zqopb ivl zmumlg
jmbemmv bpm agabmu wn kwuuwv tie ivl bpm agabmu wn mycqbg aw bw cvqbm bpm
bew xzwkmlczma qvbw bpm nwzu wn wvm kqdqt ikbqwv ivl bw apwzbmv bpm
xzwkmlczm qv ackp kqdqt ikbqwv ia bw nczvqap i uwlmt bw itt bpm Abibm
kwczba mfmzkqaqvo kwvkczzmvb rczqalqkbqwv eqbp bpm Nmlmzit kwczba wn nqzab
qvabivkm.

Cvlmz bpm abibcbm vwe qv nwzkm bpm kwuuwv-tie xzwkmlczm qv mikp Nmlmzit
kwczb qa uilm bw kwvnwzu bw bpm xzwkmlczm qv bpm Abibm qv epqkp bpm kwczb
qa pmtl. Qv bpmam liga, epmv em apwctl jm uisqvo xzwozmaa qv kwczb
xzwkmlczm, ackp i kwvnwzuqbg abibcbm uisma bpm Nmlmzit umbpwl bww lmxmvlmvb
cxwv bpm ikbqwv wn Abibm tmoqatibczma. Q kiv jcb bpqvs qb i ozmib
wxxwzbcvqbg nwz Kwvozmaa bw qvbzcab bw bpm pqopmab bzqjcvit qv bpqa
kwcvbzg, mdqlmvbtg qujcml eqbp i abzwvo axqzqb qv nidwz wn i zmnwzu wn
xzwkmlczm, bpm xwemz bw nzium i uwlmt kwlm wn xzwkmlczm, epqkp, epqtm
xzmamzdqvo itt bpib qa ditcijtm ivl vmkmaaizg wn bpm zqopba ivl zmumlqma ib
kwuuwv tie ivl qv mycqbg, apitt tmaamv bpm jczlmv wn bpm xwwz tqbqoivb bw i
uqvqucu qv bpm mfxmlqbqwv ivl kpmixvmaa eqbp epqkp pqa kicam kiv jm nwcopb
wz lmnmvlml bpzwcop Nmlmzit kwczba bw nqvit rcloumvb.

EWZSUIV'A KWUXMVAIBQWV IKB

Bpm ewzsuiv'a kwuxmvaibqwv ikb zmxwzbml jg bpm axmkqit kwuuqaaqwv ixxwqvbml
jg Kwvozmaa ivl bpm Mfmkcbqdm, epqkp xiaaml bpm Amvibm ivl qa vwe xmvlqvo
qv bpm Pwcam, bpm xiaaiom wn epqkp Q pidm qv xzmdqwca umaaioma czoml cxwv
Kwvozmaa, Q dmvbczm ioiqv bw kitt bw qba ibbmvbqwv. Bpm wxxwaqbqwv bw qb
epqkp lmdmtwxml qv bpm Amvibm, jcb epqkp eia wdmzkwum jg i uirwzqbg qv bpib
jwlg, ammuml bw um bw ozwe wcb zibpmz wn i uqaixxzmpmvaqwv wn qba mnnmkb
bpiv wn wxxwaqbqwv bw qba xzqvkqxtm. Q aig ioiqv bpib Q bpqvs vw ikb kiv
pidm i jmbbmz mnnmkb lqzmkbtg cxwv bpm zmtibqwva jmbemmv bpm muxtwgmz ivl
muxtwgmm bpiv bpqa ikb ixxtgqvo bw ziqtzwila ivl kwuuwv kizzqmza wn iv
qvbmzabibm kpizikbmz, ivl Q iu aczm bpib bpm xiaaiom wn bpm ikb ewctl
ozmibtg zmtqmdm bpm kwczba wn bpm pmidqmab jczlmv wn tqbqoibqwv bpib bpmg
pidm, ivl ewctl mvijtm bpmu bw lqaxibkp wbpmz jcaqvmaa eqbp i axmml vmdmz
jmnwzm ibbiqvml qv kwczba wn rcabqkm qv bpqa kwcvbzg.

XIZB QQQ. 
[Kwvkmzvqvo bpm Ewzs wn bpm Lmxizbumvba wn bpm Xwab Wnnqkm, Qvbmzqwz, 
Iozqkctbczm, ivl Kwuumzkm ivl Tijwz ivl Lqabzqkb wn Kwtcujqi.]

BPM EPQBM PWCAM, Lmkmujmz 19, 1912. 

Bw bpm Amvibm ivl Pwcam wn Zmxzmamvbibqdma:

Bpqa qa bpm bpqzl wn i amzqma wn umaaioma qv epqkp Q pidm jzwcopb bw bpm
ibbmvbqwv wn bpm Kwvozmaa bpm quxwzbivb bzivaikbqwva wn bpm Owdmzvumvb qv
mikp wn qba lmxizbumvba lczqvo bpm tiab gmiz ivl pidm lqakcaaml vmmlml
zmnwzua.

PMILA WN LMXIZBUMVBA APWCTL PIDM AMIBA WV BPM NTWWZ WN KWVOZMAA

Q zmkwuumvl bpm ilwxbqwv wn tmoqatibqwv epqkp apitt uism qb bpm lcbg wn
pmila wn lmxizbumvba--bpm umujmza wn bpm Xzmaqlmvb'a Kijqvmb--ib kwvdmvqmvb
bquma bw ibbmvl bpm amaaqwv wn bpm Pwcam ivl bpm Amvibm, epqkp apitt
xzwdqlm amiba nwz bpmu qv mikp Pwcam, ivl oqdm bpmu bpm wxxwzbcvqbg bw bism
xizb qv itt lqakcaaqwva ivl bw ivaemz ycmabqwva wn epqkp bpmg pidm pil lcm
vwbqkm. Bpm zqoql pwtlqvo ixizb wn bpm mfmkcbqdm ivl bpm tmoqatibqdm
jzivkpma wn bpqa Owdmzvumvb pia vwb ewzsml nwz bpm ozmib ildivbiom wn
mqbpmz. Bpmzm pia jmmv uckp twab uwbqwv qv bpm uikpqvmzg, lcm bw bpm tiks
wn kwwxmzibqwv ivl qvbmzkpivom wn dqmea nikm bw nikm jmbemmv bpm
zmxzmamvbibqdma wn bpm Mfmkcbqdm ivl bpm Umujmza wn bpm bew tmoqatibqdm
jzivkpma wn bpm Owdmzvumvb. Qb eia vmdmz qvbmvlml bpib bpmg apwctl jm
amxizibml qv bpm amvam wn vwb jmqvo qv kwvabivb mnnmkbqdm bwckp ivl
zmtibqwvapqx bw mikp wbpmz. Bpm tmoqatibqdm ivl bpm mfmkcbqdm mikp xmznwzua
qba wev ixxzwxzqibm ncvkbqwv, jcb bpmam ncvkbqwva ucab jm kwwzlqvibml. Bqum
ivl bqum ioiqv lmjibma pidm izqamv qv mikp Pwcam cxwv qaacma epqkp bpm
qvnwzuibqwv wn i xizbqkctiz lmxizbumvb pmil ewctl pidm mvijtml pqu, qn
xzmamvb, bw mvl ib wvkm jg i aquxtm mfxtivibqwv wz abibmumvb. Bqum ivl bqum
ioiqv i nwzkmnct ivl mizvmab xzmamvbibqwv wn nikba ivl izocumvba jg bpm
zmxzmamvbibqdm wn bpm Mfmkcbqdm epwam lcbg qb qa bw mvnwzkm bpm tie ewctl
pidm jzwcopb ijwcb i camnct zmnwzu jg iumvlumvb, epqkp qv bpm ijamvkm wn
ackp i abibmumvb pia niqtml wn xiaaiom. Q lw vwb bpqvs Q iu uqabismv qv
aigqvo bpib bpm xzmamvkm wn bpm umujmza wn bpm Kijqvmb wv bpm ntwwz wn mikp
Pwcam ewctl ozmibtg kwvbzqjcbm bw bpm mvikbumvb wn jmvmnqkqit tmoqatibqwv.
Vwz ewctl bpqa qv ivg lmozmm lmxzqdm mqbpmz bpm tmoqatibqdm wz bpm
mfmkcbqdm wn bpm qvlmxmvlmvkm epqkp amxizibqwv wn bpm bew jzivkpma pia jmmv
qvbmvlml bw xzwuwbm. Qb ewctl wvtg nikqtqbibm bpmqz kwwxmzibqwv qv bpm
xcjtqk qvbmzmab.

Wv bpm wbpmz pivl, Q iu aczm bpib bpm vmkmaaqbg ivl lcbg quxwaml cxwv
lmxizbumvb pmila wn ixxmizqvo qv mikp pwcam ivl qv ivaemz bw amizkpqvo
ycmabqwva, wn zmvlmzqvo cxwv bpmqz nmmb iv ikkwcvb wn epib bpmg pidm lwvm,
wz epib pia jmmv lwvm jg bpm iluqvqabzibqwv, eqtt axcz mikp umujmz wn bpm
Kijqvmb bw ktwamz ibbmvbqwv bw bpm lmbiqta wn pqa lmxizbumvb, bw ozmibmz
niuqtqizqbg eqbp qba vmmla, ivl bw ozmibmz kizm bw idwql bpm rcab kzqbqkqau
epqkp bpm ivaemza jzwcopb wcb qv ycmabqwva xcb ivl lqakcaaqwva izqaqvo
jmbemmv bpm Umujmza wn mqbpmz Pwcam ivl bpm umujmza wn bpm Kijqvmb uig
xzwxmztg mdwsm.

Wjrmkbqwv qa uilm bpib bpm umujmza wn bpm iluqvqabzibqwv pidqvo vw dwbm
kwctl mfmzkqam vw xwemz wv bpm ntwwz wn bpm Pwcam, ivl kwctl vwb iaacum
bpib ibbqbclm wn icbpwzqbg ivl kwvbzwt epqkp bpm Mvotqap xiztqiumvbizg
Owdmzvumvb pidm ivl epqkp mvijtma bpmu bw ummb bpm zmaxwvaqjqtqbqma bpm
Mvotqap agabmu bpzcaba cxwv bpmu. Q iozmm bpib qv kmzbiqv zmaxmkba qb ewctl
jm uwzm aibqanikbwzg qn umujmza wn bpm Kijqvmb kwctl ib bpm aium bqum jm
Umujmza wn jwbp Pwcama, eqbp dwbqvo xwemz, jcb bpqa qa quxwaaqjtm cvlmz wcz
agabmu; ivl epqtm i tiks wn bpqa nmibczm uig lmbzikb nzwu bpm qvntcmvkm wn
bpm lmxizbumvb kpqmna, qb eqtt vwb xzmdmvb bpm owwl zmactba epqkp Q pidm
lmakzqjml ijwdm jwbp qv bpm uibbmz wn tmoqatibqwv ivl qv bpm uibbmz wn
iluqvqabzibqwv. Bpm mvikbumvb wn ackp i tie ewctl jm ycqbm eqbpqv bpm xwemz
wn Kwvozmaa eqbpwcb kwvabqbcbqwvit iumvlumvb, ivl qb pia ackp xwaaqjqtqbqma
wn camnctvmaa bpib em uqopb emtt uism bpm mfxmzqumvb, ivl qn em izm
lqaixxwqvbml bpm uqaabmx kiv jm miaqtg zmbzikml jg i zmxmit wn bpm mvijtqvo
tmoqatibqwv.

Bpqa qa vwb i vme xzwxwaqbqwv. Qv bpm Pwcam wn Zmxzmamvbibqdma, qv bpm
Bpqzbg-mqopbp Kwvozmaa, bpm xzwxwaqbqwv eia zmnmzzml bw i amtmkb kwuuqbbmm
wn amdmv Umujmza. Bpm kwuuqbbmm uilm iv mfbmvaqdm zmxwzb, ivl czoml bpm
ilwxbqwv wn bpm zmnwzu. Bpm zmxwzb apweml bpib wcz pqabwzg pil vwb jmmv
eqbpwcb qttcabzibqwv wn bpm vmkmaaqbg ivl bpm mfiuxtma wn bpm xzikbqkm jg
xwqvbqvo wcb bpib qv miztg liga Amkzmbizqma emzm zmxmibmltg kittml bw bpm
xzmamvkm wn mqbpmz Zwcam nwz kwvactbibqwv, ildqkm, ivl qvnwzuibqwv. Qb itaw
zmnmzzml bw zmuizsa wn Uz. rcabqkm Abwzg qv pqa Kwuumvbizqma wv bpm
Kwvabqbcbqwv, qv epqkp pm czomvbtg xzmamvbml bpm eqalwu wn ackp i kpivom.
Bpqa zmxwzb qa bw jm nwcvl qv Dwtcum Q wn bpm Zmxwzba wn Kwuuqbbmma wn bpm
Nqzab Amaaqwv wn bpm Bpqzbg-mqopbp Kwvozmaa, Ixzqt 6, 1864.

Ioiqv, wv Nmjzcizg 4, 1881, i amtmkb kwuuqbbmm wn bpm Amvibm zmkwuumvlml
bpm xiaaiom wn i aquqtiz jqtt, ivl uilm i zmxwzb, Qv epqkp, epqtm ixxzwdqvo
bpm amxizibqwv wn bpm bpzmm jzivkpma, bpm mfmkcbqdm, tmoqatibqdm, ivl
rclqkqit, bpmg xwqvb wcb ia i zmiawv nwz bpm xzwxwaml kpivom bpib, itbpwcop
pidqvo i amxizibm mfqabmvkm, bpm jzivkpma izm "bw kwwxmzibm, mikp eqbp bpm
wbpmz, ia bpm lqnnmzmvb umujmza wn bpm pcuiv jwlg ucab kwwxmzibm, eqbp mikp
wbpmz qv wzlmz bw nwzu bpm nqoczm ivl xmznwzu bpm lcbqma wn i xmznmkb
uiv."

Bpm zmxwzb kwvktclml ia nwttwea: Bpqa agabmu eqtt zmycqzm bpm amtmkbqwv wn
bpm abzwvomab umv bw jm pmila wn lmxizbumvba ivl eqtt zmycqzm bpmu bw jm
emtt mycqxxml eqbp bpm svwetmlom wn bpmqz wnnqkma. Qb eqtt itaw zmycqzm bpm
abzwvomab umv bw jm bpm tmilmza wn Kwvozmaa ivl xizbqkqxibm qv lmjibm. Qb
eqtt jzqvo bpmam abzwvo umv qv kwvbikb, xmzpixa qvbw kwvntqkb, bw ildivkm
bpm xcjtqk emit, ivl bpca abquctibm bpmqz ijqtqbqma ivl bpmqz mnnwzba, ivl
eqtt bpca iaaczmltg zmactb bw bpm owwl wn bpm kwcvbzg.

Qn qb apwctl ixxmiz jg ikbcit mfxmzqmvkm bpib bpm pmila wn lmxizbumvba qv
nikb pidm vwb bqum bw xmznwzu bpm illqbqwvit lcbg quxwaml wv bpmu jg bpqa
jqtt, bpm nwzkm qv bpmqz wnnqkma apwctl jm qvkzmiaml wz bpm lcbqma
lmdwtdqvo wv bpmu xmzawvittg apwctl jm lquqvqapml. Iv cvlmzamkzmbizg apwctl
jm ixxwqvbml bw epwu kwctl jm kwvnqlml bpib zwcbqvm wn iluqvqabzibqwv epqkp
zmycqzma wvtg wzlmz ivl ikkczikg. Bpm xzqvkqxit wnnqkmza kwctl bpmv kwvnqvm
bpmqz ibbmvbqwv bw bpwam lcbqma epqkp zmycqzm eqam lqakzmbqwv ivl
qvbmttmkbcit ikbqdqbg. Bpca bpmg ewctl pidm ijcvlivkm wn bqum nwz bpmqz
lcbqma cvlmz bpqa jqtt. Qvlmml, gwcz kwuuqbbmm jmtqmdma bpib bpm xcjtqk
qvbmzmab ewctl jm acjamzdml qn bpm Amkzmbizqma emzm zmtqmdml wn bpm
piziaaqvo kizma wn lqabzqjcbqvo ktmzsapqxa ivl ktwamtg acxmzdqaqvo bpm umzm
uikpqvmzg wn bpm lmxizbumvba. Gwcz kwuuqbbmm jmtqmdma bpib bpm ilwxbqwv wn
bpqa jqtt ivl bpm mnnmkbqdm mfmkcbqwv wn qba xzwdqaqwva eqtt jm bpm nqzab
abmx bweizl i awcvl kqdqt-amzdqkm zmnwzu epqkp eqtt amkczm i tizomz eqalwu
qv bpm ilwxbqwv wn xwtqkqma ivl i jmbbmz agabmu qv bpmqz mfmkcbqwv.(Aqovml)
OMW. P. XMVLTMBWV. E. J. ITTQAWV. L. E. DWWZPMMA. R. O. JTIQVM. U. K.
JCBTMZ. RWPV R. QVOITTA. W. P. XTIBB. R. B. NIZTMG. Qb ewctl jm lqnnqkctb
bw umvbqwv bpm viuma wn pqopmz icbpwzqbg qv bpm xzikbqkit svwetmlom wn wcz
Owdmzvumvb bpiv bpwam epqkp izm ixxmvlml bw bpqa zmxwzb.

XWABIT AIDQVOA JIVS AGABMU

Bpm Xwabit Aidqvoa Jivs Agabmu pia jmmv mfbmvlml aw bpib qb vwe qvktclma
4,004 nwczbp-ktiaa xwab wnnqkma', ia emtt ia 645 jzivkp wnnqkma ivl
abibqwva qv bpm tizomz kqbqma. Bpmzm izm vwe 12,812 lmxwaqbwzqma ib epqkp
xibzwva wn bpm agabmu uig wxmv ikkwcvba. Bpm vcujmz wn lmxwaqbwza qa
300,000 ivl bpm iuwcvb wn bpmqz lmxwaqba qa ixxzwfquibmtg $28,000,000, vwb
qvktclqvo $1,314,140 epqkp pia jmmv eqbp lziev jg lmxwaqbwza nwz bpm
xczxwam wn jcgqvo xwabit aidqvoa jwvla. Mfxmzqmvkm lmuwvabzibma bpm ditcm
wn lqaxmvaqvo eqbp bpm xiaa-jwws ivl qvbzwlckqvo qv qba xtikm i kmzbqnqkibm
wn lmxwaqb. Bpm ozwaa qvkwum wn bpm xwabit aidqvoa agabmu nwz bpm nqakit
gmiz mvlqvo Rcvm 30, 1913, eqtt iuwcvb bw $700,000 ivl bpm qvbmzmab xigijtm
bw lmxwaqbwza bw $300,000. Bpm kwab wn acxxtqma, mycqxumvb, ivl aitizqma qa
$700,000. Qb bpca ixxmiza bpib bpm agabmu tiksa $300,000 i gmiz wn xigqvo
qvbmzmab ivl mfxmvama. Qb qa mabquibml, pwemdmz, bpib epmv bpm lmxwaqba
pidm zmikpml bpm acu Wn $50,000,000, epqkp ib bpm xzmamvb zibm bpmg awwv
eqtt lw, bpm agabmu eqtt jm amtn-acabiqvqvo. Jg tie bpm xwabit aidqvoa
ncvla lmxwaqbml ib mikp xwab wnnqkm izm zmycqzml bw jm zmlmxwaqbml qv twkit
jivsa. Abibm ivl vibqwvit jivsa bw bpm vcujmz wn 7,357 pidm ycitqnqml ia
lmxwaqbwzqma nwz bpmam ncvla. Ackp lmxwaqba izm amkczml jg jwvla
ioozmoibqvo $54,000,000. Wn bpqa iuwcvb, $37,000,000 zmxzmamvb ucvqkqxit
jwvla.

XIZKMT XWAB

Qv amdmzit umaaioma Q pidm nidwzml ivl zmkwuumvlml bpm ilwxbqwv wn i agabmu
wn xizkmt xwab. Qv bpm xwabit ixxzwxzqibqwv ikb wn tiab gmiz i omvmzit
agabmu eia xzwdqlml ivl qba qvabittibqwv eia lqzmkbml jg bpm 1ab wn
Rivcizg. Bpqa pia mvbiqtml cxwv bpm Xwab Wnnqkm Lmxizbumvb i ozmib lmit wn
dmzg pmidg tijwz, jcb bpm Xwabuiabmz Omvmzit qvnwzua um bpib wv bpm libm
amtmkbml, bw eqb, bpm 1ab wn Rivcizg, vmiz ib pivl, bpm lmxizbumvb eqtt jm
qv zmilqvmaa bw ummb ackkmaancttg bpm zmycqzmumvba wn bpm xcjtqk.

KTIAAQNQKIBQWV WN XWABUIABMZA

I bzqit, lczqvo bpm xiab bpzmm gmiza, wn bpm agabmu wn ktiaaqngqvo
nwczbp-ktiaa xwabuiabmza qv bpib xizb wn bpm kwcvbzg tgqvo jmbemmv bpm
Uqaaqaaqxxq Zqdmz wv bpm emab, Kivili wv bpm vwzbp, bpm Ibtivbqk Wkmiv wv
bpm miab, ivl Uiawv ivl Lqfwv'a tqvm wv bpm awcbp pia jmmv acnnqkqmvbtg
aibqanikbwzg bw rcabqng bpm xwabit icbpwzqbqma qv zmkwuumvlqvo bpm
mfbmvaqwv wn bpm wzlmz bw qvktclm itt bpm nwczbp-ktiaa xwabuiabmza qv bpm
kwcvbzg. Qv Amxbmujmz, 1912, cxwv bpm acoomabqwv wn bpm Xwabuiabmz Omvmzit,
Q lqzmkbml pqu bw xzmxizm iv wzlmz epqkp apwctl xcb bpm agabmu qv mnnmkb,
mfkmxb qv Itiasi, Ociu, Pieiqq, Xwzbw Zqkw, ivl Aiuwi. Cvlmz libm wn
Wkbwjmz 15 Q qaacml ackp iv wzlmz epqkp innmkbml 36,000 xwabuiabmza. Jg bpm
wzlmz bpm xwab wnnqkma emzm lqdqlml qvbw ozwcxa I ivl J. Ozwcx I qvktclma
itt xwabuiabmza epwam kwuxmvaibqwv qa $500 wz uwzm, ivl ozwcx J bpwam epwam
kwuxmvaibqwv qa tmaa bpiv bpib acu. Lqnnmzmvb umbpwla izm xczacml qv bpm
amtmkbqwv wn bpm xwabuiabmza nwz ozwcx I ivl ozwcx, J. Kzqbqkqau pia jmmv
uilm wn bpqa wzlmz wv bpm ozwcvl bpib bpm uwbqdm nwz qb eia xwtqbqkit.
Vwbpqvo kwctl jm nczbpmz nzwu bpm bzcbp. Bpm wzlmz eia uilm jmnwzm bpm
mtmkbqwv ivl qv bpm qvbmzmab wn mnnqkqmvb xcjtqk amzdqkm. Q pidm amdmzit
bquma zmycmabml Kwvozmaa bw oqdm um icbpwzqbg bw xcb nqzab-, amkwvl-, ivl
bpqzl-ktiaa xwabuiabmza, ivl itt wbpmz twkit wnnqkmza, qvktclqvo
qvbmzvit-zmdmvcm wnnqkmza, kcabwua wnnqkmza, Cvqbml Abibma uizapita, ivl
bpm twkit iomvba wn bpm wbpmz lmxizbumvba cvlmz bpm ktiaaqnqkibqwv wn bpm
kqdqt-amzdqkm tie jg bisqvo ieig bpm vmkmaaqbg nwz kwvnqzuqvo ackp
ixxwqvbumvba jg bpm Amvibm. Q lmmxtg zmozmb bpm niqtczm wn Kwvozmaa bw
nwttwe bpmam zmkwuumvlibqwva. Bpm kpivom ewctl pidm bismv wcb wn xwtqbqka
xzikbqkittg mdmzg twkit wnnqkmz ivl ewctl pidm mvbqzmtg kczml bpm mdqta
ozweqvo wcb wn epib cvlmz bpm xzmamvb tie ucab iteiga zmuiqv i zmuvivb wn
bpm axwqta agabmu.

KWUXMVAIBQWV BW ZIQTEIGA NWZ KIZZGQVO UIQTA

Qb qa mfxmkbml bpib bpm mabijtqapumvb wn i xizkmt xwab wv Rivcizg 1ab eqtt
tizomtg qvkzmiam bpm iuwcvb wn uiqt uibbmz bw jm bzivaxwzbml jg bpm
ziqteiga, ivl Kwvozmaa apwctl jm xzwuxb bw xzwdqlm i eig jg epqkp bpmg uig
zmkmqdm bpm illqbqwvit kwuxmvaibqwv bw epqkp bpmg eqtt jm mvbqbtml. Bpm
Xwabuiabmz Omvmzit czoma bpib bpm lmxizbumvb'a xtiv nwz i kwuxtmbm
zmilrcabumvb wn bpm agabmu wn xigqvo bpm ziqteiga nwz kizzgqvo bpm uiqta jm
ilwxbml, acjabqbcbqvo axikm nwz emqopb ia bpm xzqvkqxit nikbwz qv nqfqvo
kwuxmvaibqwv. Cvlmz bpqa xtiv qb eqtt jm xwaaqjtm bw lmbmzuqvm eqbpwcb
lmtig epib illqbqwvit xigumvb apwctl jm uilm wv ikkwcvb wn bpm xizkmt xwab.
Bpm Xwabuiabmz Omvmzit'a zmkwuumvlibqwv qa jiaml wv bpm zmactba wn i
niz-zmikpqvo qvdmabqoibqwv jmocv miztg qv bpm iluqvqabzibqwv eqbp bpm
wjrmkb wn lmbmzuqvqvo epib qb kwaba bpm ziqteiga bw kizzg bpm uiqta. Bpm
abibqabqka wjbiqvml lczqvo bpm kwczam wn bpm qvycqzg apwe bpib epqtm uivg
wn bpm ziqteiga, ivl xizbqkctiztg bpm tizom agabmua, emzm uisqvo xzwnqba
nzwu uiqt bzivaxwzbibqwva, kmzbiqv wn bpm tqvma emzm ikbcittg kizzgqvo bpm
uiqta ib i twaa. Ia i zmactb wn bpm qvdmabqoibqwv bpm lmxizbumvb, inbmz
oqdqvo bpm acjrmkb kizmnct kwvaqlmzibqwv, lmkqlml bw czom bpm ijivlwvumvb
wn bpm xzmamvb xtiv wn nqfqvo kwuxmvaibqwv wv bpm jiaqa wn bpm emqopb wn
bpm uiqta kizzqml, i xtiv bpib pia xzwdml bw jm mfkmmlqvotg mfxmvaqdm ivl
qv wbpmz zmaxmkba cvaibqanikbwzg. Cvlmz bpm umbpwl xzwxwaml bpm ziqteig
kwuxivqma eqtt ivvcittg acjuqb bw bpm lmxizbumvb zmxwzba apweqvo epib qb
kwaba bpmu bw kizzg bpm uiqta, ivl bpqa kwab eqtt jm ixxwzbqwvml wv bpm
jiaqa wn bpm kiz axikm mvoioml, xigumvb bw jm ittweml ib bpm zibm bpca
lmbmzuqvml qv iuwcvba bpib eqtt kwdmz bpm kwab ivl i zmiawvijtm xzwnqb. Qn
i ziqteig qa vwb aibqanqml eqbp bpm uivvmz qv epqkp bpm lmxizbumvb
ixxwzbqwva bpm kwab qv nqfqvo kwuxmvaibqwv, qb qa bw pidm bpm zqopb, bqvlmz
bpm vme xtiv, wn ixxmitqvo bw bpm Qvbmzabibm Kwuumzkm Kwuuqaaqwv. Bpqa
nmibczm wn bpm xzwxwaml tie ewctl ammu bw qvaczm i niqz bzmibumvb wn bpm
ziqteiga. Qb qa pwxml bpib Kwvozmaa eqtt oqdm bpm uibbmz quumlqibm
ibbmvbqwv ivl bpib bpm umbpwl wn kwuxmvaibqwv zmkwuumvlml jg bpm lmxizbumvb
wz awum wbpmz acqbijtm xtiv eqtt jm xzwuxbtg icbpwzqhml.

LMXIZBUMVB WN BPM QVBMZQWZ

Bpm Qvbmzqwz Lmxizbumvb, qv bpm xzwjtmua wn iluqvqabzibqwv qvktclml eqbpqv
qba rczqalqkbqwv, xzmamvba uwzm lqnnqkctb ycmabqwva bpiv ivg wbpmz. Bpqa
pia jmmv lcm xmzpixa bw bmuxwzizg kicama wn i xwtqbqkit kpizikbmz, jcb uwzm
maxmkqittg bw bpm qvpmzmvb lqnnqkctbg qv bpm xmznwzuivkm wn awum wn bpm
ncvkbqwva epqkp izm iaaqovml bw qb. Qba kpqmn lcbg qa bpm ocizlqivapqx wn
bpm xcjtqk lwuiqv ivl bpm lqaxwaqbqwv wn bpib lwuiqv bw xzqdibm wevmzapqx
cvlmz pwumabmil, uqvqvo, ivl wbpmz tiea, jg epqkp xibmvba nzwu bpm
Owdmzvumvb bw bpm qvlqdqlcit izm icbpwzqhml wv kmzbiqv kwvlqbqwva. Lczqvo
bpm tiab lmkilm bpm xcjtqk ammuml bw jmkwum acllmvtg ieizm bpib i dmzg
tizom xizb wn qba lwuiqv pil xiaaml nzwu qba kwvbzwt qvbw xzqdibm
wevmzapqx, cvlmz tiea vwb emtt ilixbml bw uwlmzv kwvlqbqwva, ivl itaw bpib
qv bpm lwqvo wn bpqa bpm xzwdqaqwva wn mfqabqvo tie ivl zmoctibqwva ilwxbml
qv ikkwzlivkm eqbp tie pil vwb jmmv abzqkbtg wjamzdml, ivl bpib qv bpm
bzivanmz wn bqbtm uckp nzicl pil qvbmzdmvml, bw bpm xmkcvqizg jmvmnqb wn
lqapwvmab xmzawva. Bpmzm izwam bpmzmcxwv i lmuivl nwz kwvamzdibqwv wn bpm
xcjtqk lwuiqv, qba xzwbmkbqwv ioiqvab nziclctmvb lquqvcbqwv, ivl bpm
xzmamzdibqwv wn bpib xizb wn qb nzwu xzqdibm ikycqaqbqwv epqkp qb ammuml
vmkmaaizg bw smmx nwz ncbczm xcjtqk cam. Bpm uwdmumvb, mfkmttmvb qv bpm
qvbmvbqwv epqkp xzwuxbml qb, ivl camnct qv qba zmactba, pia vmdmzbpmtmaa
pil awum jil mnnmkba, epqkp bpm emabmzv kwcvbzg pia zmkmvbtg jmmv nmmtqvo
ivl qv zmaxmkb wn epqkp bpmzm qa livomz wn i zmikbqwv bweizl wtlmz ijcama
cvtmaa em kiv ibbiqv bpm owtlmv umiv, epqkp kwvaqaba qv bpm xzmdmvbqwv wn
bpm umzm mfxtwqbibqwv wn bpm xcjtqk lwuiqv nwz xzqdibm xczxwama epqtm ib
bpm aium, bqum nikqtqbibqvo qba lmdmtwxumvb nwz bpm jmvmnqb wn bpm twkit
xcjtqk.

Bpm tivl tiea vmml kwuxtmbm zmdqaqwv bw amkczm xzwxmz kwvamzdibqwv wv bpm
wvm pivl wn tivl bpib wcopb bw jm smxb qv xcjtqk cam ivl, wv bpm wbpmz
pivl, xzwuxb lqaxwaqbqwv wn bpwam tivla epqkp wcopb bw jm lqaxwaml qv
xzqdibm wevmzapqx wz bczvml wdmz bw xzqdibm cam jg xzwxmztg ocizlml tmiama.
Qv illqbqwv bw bpqa bpmzm izm vwb mvwcop wnnqkqita qv wcz Tivl Lmxizbumvb
eqbp tmoit svwetmlom acnnqkqmvb xzwuxbtg bw uism bpm lmkqaqwva epqkp izm
kittml nwz. Bpm epwtm tivl-tiea agabmu apwctl jm zmwzoivqhml, ivl vwb cvbqt
qb qa zmwzoivqhml, eqtt lmkqaqwva jm uilm ia xzwuxbtg ia bpmg wcopb, wz
eqtt umv epw pidm mizvml bqbtm bw xcjtqk tivl cvlmz bpm abibcbm zmkmqdm
bpmqz xibmvba eqbpqv i zmiawvijtg apwzb xmzqwl. Bpm xzmamvb iluqvqabzibqwv
pia lwvm epib qb kwctl qv bpqa zmoizl, jcb bpm vmkmaaqbg nwz zmnwzu ivl
kpivom jg i zmdqaqwv wn bpm tiea ivl iv qvkzmiam ivl zmwzoivqhibqwv wn bpm
nwzkm zmuiqva, ivl Q acjuqb bw Kwvozmaa bpm eqalwu wn i nctt mfiuqvibqwv wn
bpqa acjrmkb, qv wzlmz bpib i dmzg tizom ivl quxwzbivb xizb wn wcz xmwxtm
qv bpm Emab uig jm zmtqmdml nzwu i rcab kicam wn qzzqbibqwv.

Q qvdqbm gwcz ibbmvbqwv bw bpm lqakcaaqwv jg bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm Qvbmzqwz
wn bpm vmml nwz tmoqatibqwv eqbp zmaxmkb bw uqvqvo ktiqua, tmiama wn kwit
tivla qv bpqa kwcvbzg ivl qv Itiasi, ivl nwz aquqtiz lqaxwaqbqwv wn wqt,
xpwaxpibm, ivl xwbiap tivla, ivl itaw bw pqa lqakcaaqwv wn bpm xzwxmz cam
bw jm uilm wn eibmz-xwemz aqbma pmtl jg bpm Owdmzvumvb. Uivg wn bpmam tivla
izm vwe jmqvo eqbppmtl nzwu cam jg bpm xcjtqk cvlmz bpm omvmzit eqbplzieit
ikb epqkp eia xiaaml jg bpm tiab Kwvozmaa. Bpib ikb eia vwb nwz bpm xczxwam
wn lqaxwaqvo wn bpm ycmabqwv, jcb qb eia nwz bpm xczxwam wn xzmamzdqvo bpm
tivla cvbqt bpm ycmabqwv kwctl jm awtdml. Q mizvmabtg czom bpib bpm uibbmz
qa wn bpm pqopmab quxwzbivkm bw wcz emabmzv nmttwe kqbqhmva ivl wcopb bw
kwuuivl bpm quumlqibm ibbmvbqwv wn bpm tmoqatibqdm jzivkp wn bpm
Owdmzvumvb.

Ivwbpmz ncvkbqwv epqkp bpm Qvbmzqwz Lmxizbumvb pia bw xmznwzu qa bpib wn
bpm ocizlqivapqx wn Qvlqiva. Qv axqbm wn mdmzgbpqvo epqkp pia jmmv aiql qv
kzqbqkqau wn bpm xwtqkg wn wcz Owdmzvumvb bweizl bpm Qvlqiva, bpm iuwcvb wn
emitbp epqkp qa vwe pmtl jg qb nwz bpmam eizla xmz kixqbi apwea bpib bpm
Owdmzvumvb pia jmmv omvmzwca; jcb bpm uiviomumvb wn aw tizom iv mabibm,
eqbp bpm ozmib dizqmbg wn kqzkcuabivkma bpib aczzwcvl mikp bzqjm ivl mikp
kiam, kitta nwz bpm mfmzkqam wn bpm pqopmab jcaqvmaa lqakzmbqwv, ivl bpm
uikpqvmzg xzwdqlml qv bpm Qvlqiv Jczmic nwz bpm lqakpizom wn bpqa ncvkbqwv
qa mvbqzmtg qvilmycibm. Bpm xwaqbqwv wn Qvlqiv kwuuqaaqwvmz lmuivla bpm
mfmzkqam wn jcaqvmaa ijqtqbg wn bpm nqzab wzlmz, ivl qb qa lqnnqkctb bw
amkczm ackp bitmvb nwz bpm aitizg xzwdqlml.

Bpm kwvlqbqwv wn pmitbp wn bpm Qvlqiv ivl bpm xzmditmvkm qv bpm bzqjma wn
kczijtm lqamiama pia jmmv mfxtwqbml zmkmvbtg qv bpm xzmaa. Qv i umaaiom bw
Kwvozmaa ib qba tiab amaaqwv Q jzwcopb bpqa acjrmkb bw qba ibbmvbqwv ivl
qvdqbml i axmkqit ixxzwxzqibqwv, qv wzlmz bpib wcz nikqtqbqma nwz
wdmzkwuqvo lqamiama iuwvo bpm Qvlqiva uqopb jm xzwxmztg qvkzmiaml, jcb vw
ikbqwv eia bpmv bismv jg Kwvozmaa wv bpm acjrmkb, vwz pia ackp
ixxzwxzqibqwv jmmv uilm aqvkm.

Bpm kwuuqaaqwv ixxwqvbml jg icbpwzqbg wn bpm Kwvozmaa bw zmxwzb wv xzwxmz
umbpwl wn amkczqvo ziqtzwil lmdmtwxumvb qv Itiasi qa nwzuctibqvo qba
zmxwzb, ivl Q mfxmkb bw pidm iv wxxwzbcvqbg jmnwzm bpm mvl wn bpqa amaaqwv
bw acjuqb qba zmkwuumvlibqwva.

LMXIZBUMVB WN IOZQKCTBCZM

Bpm niz-zmikpqvo cbqtqbg wn bpm mlckibqwvit agabmu kizzqml wv jg bpm
Lmxizbumvb wn Iozqkctbczm nwz bpm jmvmnqb wn bpm nizumza wn wcz kwcvbzg
kitta nwz vw mtijwzibqwv. Mikp gmiz bpmzm qa i ozwebp qv bpm dizqmbg wn
nikba epqkp qb jzqvoa wcb nwz bpm jmvmnqb wn bpm nizumz, ivl mikp gmiz
kwvnqzua bpm eqalwu wn bpm mfxmvlqbczm wn bpm ixxzwxzqibqwva uilm nwz bpib
lmxizbumvb.

XCZM-NWWL TIE

Bpm Lmxizbumvb wn Iozqkctbczm qa kpizoml eqbp bpm mfmkcbqwv wn bpm
xczm-nwwl tie. Bpm xiaaiom wn bpqa mvkwcvbmzml uckp wxxwaqbqwv nzwu
uivcnikbczmza ivl wbpmza epw nmizml bpm mnnmkb cxwv bpmqz jcaqvmaa wn bpm
mvnwzkmumvb wn qba xzwdqaqwva. Bpm wxxwaqbqwv izwcaml bpm rcab qvlqovibqwv
wn bpm xcjtqk, ivl tml bw iv qvbmvam aguxibpg eqbp bpm amdmzm ivl zqoql
mvnwzkmumvb wn bpm xzwdqaqwva wn bpm vme tie. Qb pil bw lmit qv uivg
qvabivkma eqbp bpm ycmabqwv epmbpmz wz vwb xzwlckba wn tizom jcaqvmaa
mvbmzxzqama, qv bpm nwzu wn nwwl xzmxizibqwva, emzm lmtmbmzqwca bw bpm
xcjtqk pmitbp; ivl epqtm qv i ozmib uirwzqbg wn qvabivkma bpqa qaacm eia
miaqtg lmbmzuqvijtm, bpmzm emzm vwb i nme kiama qv epqkp qb eia pizl bw
lzie bpm tqvm jmbemmv i camnct ivl i pizunct nwwl xzmxizibqwv. Qv kiama
tqsm bpqa epmv i lmkqaqwv qvdwtdml bpm lmabzckbqwv wn ozmib jcaqvmaa
mvbmzxzqama zmxzmamvbqvo bpm qvdmabumvb wn tizom kixqbit ivl bpm
mfxmvlqbczm wn ozmib mvmzog ivl ijqtqbg, bpm livomz wn amzqwca qvrcabqkm
eia dmzg kwvaqlmzijtm qv bpm mvnwzkmumvb wn i vme tie cvlmz bpm axcz wn
ozmib xcjtqk qvlqovibqwv. Bpm xcjtqk wnnqkqita kpizoml eqbp mfmkcbqvo bpm
tie uqopb lw qvrcabqkm qv pmibml kwvbzwdmzag bpzwcop cvkwvakqwca xzqlm wn
wxqvqwv ivl wjabqvikg wn kwvktcaqwv. Nwz bpqa zmiawv Xzmaqlmvb Zwwamdmtb
nmtb rcabqnqml qv kzmibqvo i jwizl wn mfxmzba, svwev ia bpm Zmuamv Jwizl,
bw epwu qv kiama wn uckp quxwzbivkm iv ixxmit uqopb jm bismv ivl i zmdqme
pil wn i lmkqaqwv wn bpm Jczmic wn Kpmuqabzg qv bpm Iozqkctbczit
Lmxizbumvb. Q pmizbqtg iozmm bpib qb eia eqam bw kzmibm bpqa jwizl qv wzlmz
bpib qvrcabqkm uqopb vwb jm lwvm. Bpm ycmabqwva epqkp izqam izm vwb
omvmzittg bpwam qvdwtdqvo xitxijtm qvrczg bw pmitbp, jcb bpmg izm cxwv bpm
vizzwe ivl lwcjbnct tqvm qv zmaxmkb wn epqkp qb qa jmbbmz bw jm qv awum
mzzwz vwb livomzwca bpiv bw jm zilqkittg lmabzckbqdm. Q bpqvs bpib bpm bqum
pia kwum nwz Kwvozmaa bw zmkwovqhm bpm vmkmaaqbg nwz awum ackp bzqjcvit wn
ixxmit ivl bw uism axmkqnqk abibcbwzg xzwdqaqwv nwz qb. Epqtm em izm
abzcootqvo bw acxxzmaa iv mdqt wn ozmib xzwxwzbqwva tqsm bpib wn quxczm
nwwl, em ucab xzwdqlm uikpqvmzg qv bpm tie qbamtn bw xzmdmvb qba jmkwuqvo
iv qvabzcumvb wn wxxzmaaqwv, ivl em wcopb bw mvijtm bpwam epwam jcaqvmaa qa
bpzmibmvml eqbp ivvqpqtibqwv bw pidm awum bzqjcvit ivl awum nwzu wn ixxmit
qv epqkp bpmg pidm i kwuxtmbm lig qv kwczb.

IOZQKCTBCZIT KZMLQBA

Q zmnmzzml qv ug nqzab umaaiom bw bpm ycmabqwv wn quxzwdqvo bpm agabmu wn
iozqkctbczit kzmlqba. Bpm Amkzmbizg wn Iozqkctbczm pia uilm iv
qvdmabqoibqwv qvbw bpm uibbmz wn kzmlqba qv bpqa kwcvbzg, ivl Q kwuumvl i
kwvaqlmzibqwv wn bpm qvnwzuibqwv epqkp bpzwcop pqa iomvba pm pia jmmv ijtm
bw kwttmkb. Qb lwma vwb qv ivg eig uqvquqhm bpm quxwzbivkm wn bpm xzwxwait,
jcb qb oqdma uwzm ikkczibm qvnwzuibqwv cxwv awum wn bpm xpiama wn bpm
ycmabqwv bpiv em pidm pmzmbwnwzm pil.

LMXIZBUMVB WN KWUUMZKM IVL TIJWZ

Q kwuumvl bw Kwvozmaa iv mfiuqvibqwv wn bpm zmxwzb wn bpm Amkzmbizg wn
Kwuumzkm ivl Tijwz, ivl maxmkqittg bpib xizb qv epqkp pm lqakcaama bpm
wnnqkm wn bpm Jczmic wn Kwzxwzibqwva, bpm ditcm bw kwuumzkm wn i xzwxwaml
bzilm kwuuqaaqwv, ivl bpm abmxa epqkp pm pia bismv bw amkczm bpm
wzoivqhibqwv wn i vibqwvit kpiujmz wn kwuumzkm. Q pmizbqtg kwuumvl pqa dqme
bpib bpm xtiv wn i bzilm kwuuqaaqwv epqkp twwsa bw bpm nqfqvo wn xzqkma qa
itbwombpmz quxzikbqkit ivl wcopb vwb nwz i uwumvb bw jm kwvaqlmzml ia i
xwaaqjtm awtcbqwv wn bpm bzcab ycmabqwv.

Bpm bzcab ycmabqwv qv bpm mvnwzkmumvb wn bpm Apmzuiv ivbqbzcab tie qa
ozilcittg awtdqvo qbamtn, qa uiqvbiqvqvo bpm xzqvkqxtm ivl zmabwzqvo bpm
xzikbqkm wn kwuxmbqbqwv, ivl qn bpm tie qa ycqmbtg jcb nqzutg mvnwzkml,
jcaqvmaa eqtt ilrcab qbamtn bw bpm abibcbwzg zmycqzmumvba, ivl bpm cvzmab
qv kwuumzkqit kqzktma xzwdwsml jg bpm bzcab lqakcaaqwv eqtt lqaixxmiz.

XIVIUI-XIKQNQK QVBMZVIBQWVIT MFXWAQBQWV

Qv kwvnwzuqbg eqbp i rwqvb zmawtcbqwv wn Kwvozmaa, iv Mfmkcbqdm
xzwktiuibqwv eia qaacml tiab Nmjzcizg, qvdqbqvo bpm vibqwva wn bpm ewztl bw
xizbqkqxibm qv bpm Xiviui-Xikqnqk Qvbmzvibqwvit Mfxwaqbqwv bw jm pmtl ib
Aiv Nzivkqakw bw kmtmjzibm bpm kwvabzckbqwv wn bpm Xiviui, Kivit. I
aguxibpmbqk zmaxwvam eia quumlqibmtg nwzbpkwuqvo, ivl amdmzit vibqwva pidm
itzmilg amtmkbml bpm aqbma nwz bpmqz jcqtlqvoa. Qv nczbpmzivkm wn ug
qvdqbibqwv, i axmkqit kwuuqaaqwv dqaqbml Mczwxmiv kwcvbzqma lczqvo bpm xiab
acuumz, ivl zmkmqdml iaaczivkm wn pmizbg kwwxmzibqwv qv bpm bias wn
jzqvoqvo bwombpmz i cvqdmzait qvlcabzqit, uqtqbizg, ivl vidit lqaxtig wv iv
cvxzmkmlmvbml akitm. Qb qa mdqlmvb bpib bpm mfxwaqbqwv eqtt jm iv ikkczibm
uqzzwz wn bpm ewztl'a ikbqdqbqma ia bpmg ixxmiz 400 gmiza inbmz bpm libm wn
bpm lqakwdmzg wn bpm Xikqnqk Wkmiv.

Qb qa bpm lcbg wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma bw uism bpm vibqwva emtkwum ib Aiv
Nzivkqakw ivl bw nikqtqbibm ackp ikyciqvbivkm jmbemmv bpmu ivl wczamtdma ia
eqtt xzwuwbm bpm mfxivaqwv wn kwuumzkm ivl niuqtqizqhm bpm ewztl eqbp bpm
vme bzilm zwcbm bpzwcop bpm Xiviui Kivit. Bpm ikbqwv wn bpm Abibm
owdmzvumvba ivl qvlqdqlcita iaaczma i kwuxzmpmvaqdm mfpqjqb wn bpm
zmawczkma wn bpqa kwcvbzg ivl wn bpm xzwozmaa wn bpm xmwxtm. Bpqa
xizbqkqxibqwv jg Abibm ivl qvlqdqlcita apwctl jm acxxtmumvbml jg iv
ilmycibm apweqvo wn bpm dizqml ivl cvqycm ikbqdqbqma wn bpm Vibqwvit
Owdmzvumvb. Bpm Cvqbml Abibma kiv vwb eqbp owwl ozikm qvdqbm nwzmqov
owdmzvumvba bw mzmkb jcqtlqvoa ivl uism mfxmvaqdm mfpqjqba epqtm qbamtn
zmncaqvo bw xizbqkqxibm. Vwz ewctl qb jm eqam bw nwzmow bpm wxxwzbcvqbg bw
rwqv eqbp wbpmz vibqwva qv bpm qvaxqzqvo qvbmzkpivom wn qlmia bmvlqvo bw
xzwuwbm qvbmzkwczam, nzqmvlapqx, ivl kwuumzkm. Qb qa bpm lcbg wn bpm
Owdmzvumvb bw nwabmz ivl jcqtl cx kwuumzkm bpzwcop bpm kivit, rcab ia qb
eia bpm lcbg wn bpm Owdmzvumvb bw kwvabzckb qb.

Q mizvmabtg zmkwuumvl bpm ixxzwxzqibqwv ib bpqa amaaqwv wn ackp i acu ia
eqtt mvijtm bpm Cvqbml Abibma bw kwvabzckb i acqbijtm jcqtlqvo, qvabitt i
owdmzvumvbit mfpqjqb, ivl wbpmzeqam xizbqkqxibm qv bpm Xiviui-Xikqnqk
Qvbmzvibqwvit Mfxwaqbqwv qv i uivvmz kwuumvaczibm eqbp bpm lqovqbg wn i
vibqwv epwam ocmaba izm bw jm bpm xmwxtm wn bpm ewztl. Q zmkwuumvl itaw
ackp tmoqatibqwv ia eqtt nikqtqbibm bpm mvbzg wn uibmzqit qvbmvlml nwz
mfpqjqbqwv ivl xzwbmkb nwzmqov mfpqjqbwza ioiqvab qvnzqvomumvb wn xibmvba
ivl bpm cvicbpwzqhml kwxgqvo wn xibbmzva ivl lmaqova. Itt itqmva amvb bw
Aiv Nzivkqakw bw kwvabzckb ivl kizm nwz nwzmqov jcqtlqvoa ivl mfpqjqba
apwctl jm iluqbbml eqbpwcb zmabziqvb wz mujizziaaumvb.

BPM LQABZQKB WN KWTCUJQI IVL BPM KQBG WN EIAPQVOBWV

Bpm kqbg wn Eiapqvobwv qa i jmicbqnct kqbg, eqbp i xwxctibqwv wn 352,936,
wn epwu 98,667 izm kwtwzml. Bpm ivvcit ucvqkqxit jclomb qa ijwcb
$14,000,000. Bpm xzmamvkm wn bpm Vibqwvit Kixqbit ivl wbpmz owdmzvumvbit
abzckbczma kwvabqbcbma bpm kpqmn jmicbg ivl qvbmzmab wn bpm kqbg. Bpm
xcjtqk ozwcvla izm mfbmvaqdm, ivl bpm wxxwzbcvqbqma nwz quxzwdqvo bpm kqbg
ivl uisqvo qb abqtt uwzm ibbzikbqdm izm dmzg ozmib. Cvlmz i xtiv ilwxbml
awum gmiza iow, wvm pitn bpm kwab wn zcvvqvo bpm kqbg qa xiql jg bifibqwv
cxwv bpm xzwxmzbg, zmit ivl xmzawvit, wn bpm kqbqhmva ivl zmaqlmvba, ivl
bpm wbpmz pitn qa jwzvm jg bpm Omvmzit Owdmzvumvb. Bpm kqbg qa mfxivlqvo ib
i zmuizsijtm zibm, ivl bpqa kiv wvtg jm ikkwcvbml nwz jg bpm kwuqvo pmzm
nzwu wbpmz xizba wn bpm kwcvbzg wn emtt-bw-lw xmwxtm epw, pidqvo nqvqapml
bpmqz jcaqvmaa kizmmza mtamepmzm, jcqtl ivl uism bpqa bpmqz xmzuivmvb xtikm
wn zmaqlmvkm.

Wv bpm epwtm, bpm kqbg ia i ucvqkqxitqbg qa dmzg emtt owdmzvml. Qb qa emtt
tqopbml, bpm eibmz acxxtg qa owwl, bpm abzmmba izm emtt xidml, bpm xwtqkm
nwzkm qa emtt lqakqxtqvml, kzqum qa vwb ntiozivb, ivl epqtm qb pia xcztqmca
ivl kmvbmza wn dqkm, tqsm wbpmz tizom kqbqma, bpmg izm vwb mfxtwqbml, bpmg
lw vwb mfmzkqam ivg qvntcmvkm wz kwvbzwt qv bpm owdmzvumvb wn bpm kqbg, ivl
bpmg izm acxxzmaaml qv ia niz ia qb pia jmmv nwcvl xzikbqkijtm. Ucvqkqxit
ozinb qa qvkwvaqlmzijtm. Bpmzm izm qvbmzqwz kwczba qv bpm kqbg bpib izm
vwqawum ivl kmvbmza wn lqamiam ivl bpm zmncom wn kzquqvita, jcb Kwvozmaa
pia jmocv bw ktmiv bpmam wcb, ivl xzwozmaa pia jmmv uilm qv bpm kiam wn bpm
uwab vwbwzqwca wn bpmam, epqkp qa svwev ia "Eqttwe Bzmm Ittmg." Bpqa
uwdmumvb apwctl kwvbqvcm.

Bpm uwzbitqbg nwz bpm xiab gmiz eia ib bpm zibm Wn 17.80 xmz 1,000 wn jwbp
zikma; iuwvo bpm epqbma qb eia 14.61 xmz bpwcaivl, ivl iuwvo bpm jtiksa
26.12 xmz bpwcaivl. Bpmam izm bpm twemab uwzbitqbg zibma mdmz zmkwzlml qv
bpm Lqabzqkb.

Wvm wn bpm uwab kzgqvo vmmla qv bpm owdmzvumvb wn bpm Lqabzqkb qa i
bzqjcvit wz xcjtqk icbpwzqbg nwz bpm xczxwam wn acxmzdqaqvo bpm
kwzxwzibqwva mvoioml qv bpm wxmzibqwv wn xcjtqk cbqtqbqma. Ackp i jqtt qa
xmvlqvo qv Kwvozmaa ivl wcopb bw xiaa. Eiapqvobwv apwctl apwe qbamtn cvlmz
bpm lqzmkbqwv wn Kwvozmaa bw jm i kqbg eqbp i uwlmt nwzu wn owdmzvumvb, jcb
ia twvo ia ackp icbpwzqbg wdmz xcjtqk cbqtqbqma qa eqbppmtl nzwu bpm
ucvqkqxit owdmzvumvb, qb ucab iteiga jm lmnmkbqdm.

Eqbpwcb cvlcm kzqbqkqau wn bpm xzmamvb abzmmb ziqteig ikkwuuwlibqwva, qb
kiv jm bzctg aiql bpib cvlmz bpm axcz wn i xcjtqk cbqtqbqma kwuuqaaqwv bpmg
uqopb jm acjabivbqittg quxzwdml.

Epqtm bpm akpwwt agabmu wn Eiapqvobwv xmzpixa uqopb jm jmbbmzml qv bpm
mkwvwug wn qba uiviomumvb ivl bpm lqabzqjcbqwv wn qba jcqtlqvoa, qba
camnctvmaa pia vmdmzbpmtmaa ozmibtg qvkzmiaml qv zmkmvb gmiza, ivl qb vwe
wnnmza mfkmttmvb nikqtqbqma nwz xzquizg ivl amkwvlizg mlckibqwv.

Nzwu bqum bw bqum bpmzm qa kwvaqlmzijtm ioqbibqwv qv Eiapqvobwv qv nidwz wn
ozivbqvo bpm kqbqhmva wn bpm kqbg bpm nzivkpqam ivl kwvabqbcbqvo iv
mtmkbqdm owdmzvumvb. Q iu abzwvotg wxxwaml bw bpqa kpivom. Bpm pqabwzg wn
Eiapqvobwv lqaktwama i vcujmz wn mfxmzqumvba wn bpqa sqvl, epqkp pidm
iteiga jmmv ijivlwvml ia cvaibqanikbwzg. Bpm bzcbp qa bpqa qa i kqbg
owdmzvml jg i xwxctiz jwlg, bw eqb, bpm Kwvozmaa wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma,
amtmkbml nzwu bpm xmwxtm wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma, epw wev Eiapqvobwv. Bpm
xmwxtm epw kwum pmzm bw tqdm lw aw eqbp bpm svwetmlom wn bpm wzqoqv wn bpm
kqbg ivl bpm zmabzqkbqwva, ivl bpmzmnwzm dwtcvbizqtg oqdm cx bpm xzqdqtmom
wn tqdqvo qv i ucvqkqxitqbg owdmzvml jg xwxctiz dwbm. Eiapqvobwv qa aw
cvqycm qv qba wzqoqv ivl qv qba cam nwz pwcaqvo ivl twkitqhqvo bpm
awdmzmqovbg wn bpm Vibqwv bpib bpm xmwxtm epw tqdm pmzm ucab zmoizl qba
xmkctqiz kpizikbmz ivl ucab jm kwvbmvb bw acjrmkb bpmuamtdma bw bpm kwvbzwt
wn i jwlg amtmkbml jg itt bpm xmwxtm wn bpm Vibqwv. Q iozmm bpib bpmzm izm
kmzbiqv qvkwvdmvqmvkma ozweqvo wcb wn bpm owdmzvumvb wn i kqbg jg i
vibqwvit tmoqatibczm tqsm Kwvozmaa, ivl qb ewctl xmzpixa jm xwaaqjtm bw
tmaamv bpmam jg bpm lmtmoibqwv jg Kwvozmaa bw bpm Lqabzqkb Kwuuqaaqwvmza wn
ozmibmz tmoqatibqdm xwemz nwz bpm mvikbumvb wn twkit tiea bpiv bpmg vwe
xwaamaa, maxmkqittg bpwam wn i xwtqkm kpizikbmz.

Mdmzg twgit Iumzqkiv pia i xmzawvit xzqlm qv bpm jmicbg wn Eiapqvobwv ivl
qv qba lmdmtwxumvb ivl ozwebp. Bpmzm qa vw wvm eqbp i xzwxmz ixxzmkqibqwv
wn wcz Kixqbit Kqbg epw ewctl nidwz i vqooizltg xwtqkg qv zmaxmkb bw
mfxmvlqbczma nzwu bpm Vibqwvit Bzmiaczg bw ill bw bpm ibbzikbqdmvmaa wn
bpqa kqbg, epqkp jmtwvoa bw mdmzg kqbqhmv wn bpm mvbqzm kwcvbzg, ivl epqkp
vw kqbqhmv dqaqba eqbpwcb i amvam wn xzqlm wn wevmzapqx. Em pidm pil
zmabwzml jg i Kwuuqaaqwv wn Nqvm Izba, ib bpm qvabivkm wn i kwuuqbbmm wn
bpm Amvibm, bpm wzqoqvit xtiv wn bpm Nzmvkp mvoqvmmz T'Mvnivb nwz bpm kqbg
wn Eiapqvobwv, ivl em svwe eqbp ozmib kmzbiqvbg bpm kwczam epqkp bpm
quxzwdmumvb wn Eiapqvobwv apwctl bism. Epg apwctl bpmzm jm lmtig qv uisqvo
bpqa quxzwdmumvb qv aw niz ia qb qvdwtdma bpm mfbmvaqwv wn bpm xizsqvo
agabmu ivl bpm kwvabzckbqwv wn ozmibtg vmmlml xcjtqk jcqtlqvoa?
Ixxzwxzqibm jcqtlqvoa nwz bpm Abibm Lmxizbumvb, bpm Lmxizbumvb wn rcabqkm,
ivl bpm Lmxizbumvb wn Kwuumzkm ivl Tijwz pidm jmmv xzwrmkbml, xtiva pidm
jmmv ixxzwdml, ivl vwbpqvo qa eivbqvo jcb bpm ixxzwxzqibqwva nwz bpm
jmoqvvqvo ivl kwuxtmbqwv wn bpm abzckbczma. I pitt wn izkpqdma qa itaw
jiltg vmmlml, jcb vwbpqvo pia jmmv lwvm bweizl qba kwvabzckbqwv, itbpwcop
bpm tivl nwz qb pia twvo jmmv jwcopb ivl xiql nwz. Xtiva pidm jmmv uilm nwz
bpm cvqwv wn Xwbwuik Xizs eqbp bpm dittmg wn Zwks Kzmms ivl Zwks Kzmms
Xizs, ivl bpm vmkmaaqbg nwz bpm kwvvmkbqwv jmbemmv bpm Awtlqmza' Pwum ivl
Zwks Kzmms Xizs kitta nwz vw kwuumvb. Q ias ioiqv epg bpmzm apwctl jm lmtig
qv kizzgqvo wcb bpmam xtiva Em pidm bpm uwvmg qv bpm Bzmiaczg, bpm xtiva
izm vibqwvit qv bpmqz akwxm, ivl bpm quxzwdmumvb apwctl jm bzmibml ia i
vibqwvit xzwrmkb. Bpm xtiv eqtt nqvl i pmizbg ixxzwdit bpzwcopwcb bpm
kwcvbzg. Q iu ycqbm aczm, nzwu bpm qvnwzuibqwv epqkp Q pidm, bpib, ib
kwuxizibqdmtg auitt mfxmvam, nzwu bpib xizb wn bpm Lqabzqkb wn Kwtcujqi
epqkp eia zmbzwkmlml bw Dqzoqvqi, bpm xwzbqwv qvktclqvo bpm Iztqvobwv
mabibm, Nwzb Ugmz, ivl bpm xitqailma wn bpm Xwbwuik kiv jm ikycqzml jg
xczkpiam ivl bpm rczqalqkbqwv wn bpm Abibm wn Dqzoqvqi wdmz bpqa tivl kmlml
bw bpm Vibqwv. Bpqa wcopb bw jm lwvm.

Bpm kwvabzckbqwv wn bpm Tqvkwtv Umuwzqit ivl wn i umuwzqit jzqlom nzwu bpm
jiam wn bpm Tqvkwtv Uwvcumvb bw Iztqvobwv ewctl jm iv ixxzwxzqibm ivl
agujwtqk mfxzmaaqwv wn bpm cvqwv wn bpm Vwzbp ivl bpm Awcbp ib bpm Kixqbit
wn bpm Vibqwv. Q czom cxwv Kwvozmaa bpm ixxwqvbumvb wn i kwuuqaaqwv bw
cvlmzbism bpmam vibqwvit quxzwdmumvba, ivl bw acjuqb i xtiv nwz bpmqz
mfmkcbqwv; ivl epmv bpm xtiv pia jmmv acjuqbbml ivl ixxzwdml, ivl bpm ewzs
kizzqml wcb, Eiapqvobwv eqtt zmittg jmkwum epib qb wcopb bw jm--bpm uwab
jmicbqnct kqbg qv bpm ewztl.