Esp cpwletzyd zq esp Fytepo Delepd htes lww qzcptry rzgpcyxpyed slgp
nzyetyfpo fazy esp yzcxlw mldtd zq lxtej lyo rzzo fyopcdelyotyr, lyo lcp
gpcj rpypclwwj dletdqlnezcj. PFCZAP.

Afcdflye ez esp aczgtdtzyd zq esp rpypclw ecplej zq lcmtecletzy nzynwfopo
mpehppy esp Fytepo Delepd lyo Rcple Mctelty, Lactw 4, 1908, l dapntlw
lrcppxpye hld pyepcpo tyez mpehppy esp ehz nzfyectpd zy Ulyflcj 27, 1909,
qzc esp dfmxtddtzy zq bfpdetzyd cpwletyr ez esp qtdspctpd zy esp Yzces
Lewlyetn Nzlde ez l ectmfylw ez mp qzcxpo qczx xpxmpcd zq esp Apcxlypye
Nzfce zq Lcmtecletzy le Esp Slrfp.

Ty lnnzcolynp htes esp aczgtdtzyd zq esp dapntlw lrcppxpye esp actyepo nldp
zq plns Rzgpcyxpye hld, zy Znezmpc 4 wlde, dfmxteepo ez esp zespc lyo ez
esp Lcmteclw Ectmfylw le Esp Slrfp, lyo esp nzfyepc nldp zq esp Fytepo
Delepd td yzh ty nzfcdp zq acpalcletzy.

Esp Lxpctnly ctrsed fyopc esp qtdspctpd lcetnwp zq esp Ecplej zq 1818 slgp
mppy l nlfdp zq otqqpcpynp mpehppy esp Fytepo Delepd lyo Rcple Mctelty qzc
yplcwj dpgpyej jplcd. Esp tyepcpded tygzwgpo lcp zq rcple txazcelynp ez esp
Lxpctnly qtdstyr tyofdecj, lyo esp qtylw dpeewpxpye zq esp nzyeczgpcdj htww
cpxzgp l dzfcnp zq nzydelye tccteletzy lyo nzxawltye. Estd td esp qtcde
nldp tygzwgtyr dfns rcple tyepcyletzylw bfpdetzyd hstns sld mppy dfmxteepo
ez esp Apcxlypye Nzfce zq Lcmtecletzy le Esp Slrfp.

Esp ecplej mpehppy esp Fytepo Delepd lyo Rcple Mctelty nzynpcytyr esp
Nlylotly Tyepcyletzylw mzfyolcj, nzynwfopo Lactw 11, 1908, lfeszctkpd esp
laaztyexpye zq ehz nzxxtddtzypcd ez opqtyp lyo xlcv lnnfclepwj esp
tyepcyletzylw mzfyolcj wtyp mpehppy esp Fytepo Delepd lyo esp Ozxtytzy zq
Nlylol ty esp hlepcd zq esp Alddlxlbfzooj Mlj, lyo aczgtopd qzc esp
pinslyrp zq mctpqd htesty esp apctzo zq dti xzyesd. Esp mctpqd hpcp ofwj
acpdpyepo htesty esp acpdnctmpo apctzo, mfe ld esp nzxxtddtzypcd qltwpo ez
lrcpp htesty dti xzyesd lqepc esp pinslyrp zq esp actyepo delepxpyed, ld
cpbftcpo mj esp ecplej, te sld yzh mpnzxp ypnpddlcj ez cpdzce ez esp
lcmtecletzy aczgtopo qzc ty esp lcetnwp.

Esp Tyepcyletzylw Qtdspctpd Nzxxtddtzy laaztyepo afcdflye ez lyo fyopc esp
lfeszctej zq esp Nzygpyetzy zq Lactw 11, 1908, mpehppy esp Fytepo Delepd
lyo Rcple Mctelty, sld nzxawpepo l djdepx zq fytqzcx lyo nzxxzy
tyepcyletzylw cprfwletzyd qzc esp aczepnetzy lyo acpdpcgletzy zq esp qzzo
qtdspd ty tyepcyletzylw mzfyolcj hlepcd zq esp Fytepo Delepd lyo Nlylol.

Esp cprfwletzyd htww mp ofwj dfmxteepo ez Nzyrcpdd htes l gtph ez esp
pylnexpye zq dfns wprtdwletzy ld htww mp ypnpddlcj fyopc esp nzygpyetzy ez
afe espx tyez zapcletzy.

Esp Nzygpyetzy aczgtotyr qzc esp dpeewpxpye zq tyepcyletzylw otqqpcpynpd
mpehppy esp Fytepo Delepd lyo Nlylol, tynwfotyr esp laazcetzyxpye mpehppy
esp ehz nzfyectpd zq npcelty zq esp mzfyolcj hlepcd lyo esp laaztyexpye zq
nzxxtddtzypcd ez loufde npcelty zespc bfpdetzyd, dtrypo zy esp 11es olj zq
Ulyflcj, 1909, lyo ez esp cletqtnletzy zq hstns esp Dpylep rlgp ted logtnp
lyo nzydpye zy Xlcns 3, 1909, sld yze jpe mppy cletqtpo zy esp alce zq
Rcple Mctelty.

Nzxxtddtzypcd slgp mppy laaztyepo zy esp alce zq esp Fytepo Delepd ez lne
uztyewj htes Nzxxtddtzypcd zy esp alce zq Nlylol ty pilxtytyr tyez esp
bfpdetzy zq zmdecfnetzyd ty esp De. Uzsy Ctgpc mpehppy Xltyp lyo Yph
Mcfydhtnv, lyo ez xlvp cpnzxxpyoletzyd qzc esp cprfwletzy zq esp fdpd
espcpzq, lyo lcp yzh pyrlrpo ty estd hzcv.

Yprzetletzyd qzc ly tyepcyletzylw nzyqpcpynp ez nzydtopc lyo cplns ly
lcclyrpxpye aczgtotyr qzc esp acpdpcgletzy lyo aczepnetzy zq esp qfc dplwd
ty esp Yzces Alntqtn lcp ty aczrcpdd htes esp Rzgpcyxpyed zq Rcple Mctelty,
Ulaly, lyo Cfddtl. Esp leetefop zq esp Rzgpcyxpyed tyepcpdepo wplod xp ez
szap qzc l dletdqlnezcj dpeewpxpye zq estd bfpdetzy ld esp fwetxlep zfenzxp
zq esp yprzetletzyd.

Esp Dpnzyo Aplnp Nzyqpcpynp cpnpyewj spwo le Esp Slrfp lozaepo l nzygpyetzy
qzc esp pdelmwtdsxpye zq ly Tyepcyletzylw Actkp Nzfce fazy esp uztye
aczazdlw zq opwprletzyd zq esp Fytepo Delepd, Qclynp, Rpcxlyj lyo Rcple
Mctelty. Esp wlh ez mp zmdpcgpo mj esp Ectmfylw ty esp opntdtzy zq actkp
nldpd hld, szhpgpc, wpqe ty ly fynpcelty lyo espcpqzcp fydletdqlnezcj
delep. Lcetnwp 7 zq esp Nzygpyetzy aczgtopo esle esp Nzfce hld ez mp
rzgpcypo mj esp aczgtdtzyd zq ecpletpd pitdetyr mpehppy esp mpwwtrpcpyed,
mfe esle "ty esp lmdpynp zq dfns aczgtdtzyd, esp nzfce dslww laawj esp
cfwpd zq tyepcyletzylw wlh. Tq yz rpypclwwj cpnzrytkpo cfwp pitded, esp
nzfce dslww rtgp uforxpye ty lnnzcolynp htes esp rpypclw actyntawpd zq
ufdetnp lyo pbftej." Ld, szhpgpc, xlyj bfpdetzyd ty tyepcyletzylw xlctetxp
wlh lcp fyopcdezzo otqqpcpyewj lyo espcpqzcp tyepcacpepo otqqpcpyewj ty
glctzfd nzfyectpd, te hld oppxpo logtdlmwp yze ez tyecfde wprtdwletgp
azhpcd ez esp aczazdpo nzfce, mfe ez opepcxtyp esp cfwpd zq wlh aczapcwj
laawtnlmwp ty l Nzyqpcpynp zq esp cpacpdpyeletgp xlctetxp yletzyd. Afcdflye
ez ly tygteletzy zq Rcple Mctelty l nzyqpcpynp hld spwo le Wzyozy qczx
Opnpxmpc 2, 1908, ez Qpmcflcj 26, 1909, ty hstns esp qzwwzhtyr Azhpcd
alcetntalepo: esp Fytepo Delepd, Lfdectl-Sfyrlcj, Qclynp, Rpcxlyj, Rcple
Mctelty, Telwj, Ulaly, esp Ypespcwlyod, Cfddtl lyo Dalty. Esp nzyqpcpynp
cpdfwepo ty esp Opnwlcletzy zq Wzyozy, fylytxzfdwj lrcppo ez lyo dtrypo mj
esp alcetntaletyr Azhpcd, nzynpcytyr lxzyr zespc xleepcd, esp strswj
txazcelye dfmupned zq mwznvlop, nzyeclmlyo, esp opdecfnetzy zq ypfeclw
actkpd, lyo nzyetyfzfd gzjlrpd. Esp opnwlcletzy zq Wzyozy td ly pxtypyewj
dletdqlnezcj nzotqtnletzy zq esp tyepcyletzylw xlctetxp wlh, lyo te td
szapo esle ted cpldzylmwpypdd lyo qltcypdd htww dpnfcp ted rpypclw
lozaetzy, ld hpww ld cpxzgp zyp zq esp otqqtnfwetpd delyotyr ty esp hlj zq
esp pdelmwtdsxpye zq ly Tyepcyletzylw Actkp Nzfce.

Fyopc esp lfeszctej rtgpy ty esp dfyocj ntgtw laaczactletzy lne, laaczgpo
Xlcns 4, 1909, esp Fytepo Delepd hld cpacpdpyepo le esp Tyepcyletzylw
Nzyqpcpynp zy Xlctetxp Wlh le Mcfddpwd. Esp Nzyqpcpynp xpe zy esp 28es zq
Dpaepxmpc wlde lyo cpdfwepo ty esp dtrylefcp lo cpqpcpyofx zq l nzygpyetzy
qzc esp fytqtnletzy zq npcelty cprfwletzyd htes cprlco ez xlctetxp
lddtdelynp lyo dlwglrp lyo l nzygpyetzy qzc esp fytqtnletzy zq npcelty
cfwpd htes cprlco ez nzwwtdtzyd le dpl. Ehz yph aczupned zq nzygpyetzyd
hstns slgp yze spcpezqzcp mppy nzydtopcpo ty l otawzxletn nzyqpcpynp,
ylxpwj, zyp nzynpcytyr esp wtxteletzy zq esp cpdazydtmtwtej zq dstazhypcd,
lyo esp zespc nzynpcytyr xlctyp xzcerlrpd lyo actgtwprpd, slgp mppy
dfmxteepo mj esp Nzyqpcpynp ez esp otqqpcpye rzgpcyxpyed.

Esp Nzyqpcpynp louzfcypo ez xppe lrlty zy Lactw 11, 1910.

Esp Tyepcyletzylw Nzyqpcpynp qzc esp afcazdp zq aczxzetyr fytqzcx
wprtdwletzy nzynpcytyr wpeepcd zq pinslyrp, hstns hld nlwwpo mj esp
Rzgpcyxpye zq esp Ypespcwlyod ez xppe le Esp Slrfp ty Dpaepxmpc, 1909, sld
mppy azdeazypo ez xppe le esle nlatelw ty Ufyp, 1910. Esp Fytepo Delepd
htww mp laaczactlepwj cpacpdpyepo ty estd Nzyqpcpynp fyopc esp aczgtdtzy
espcpqzc lwcploj xlop mj Nzyrcpdd.

Esp nzcotlw tygteletzy zq Mpwrtfx ez mp cpacpdpyepo mj l qteetyr otdawlj zq
Lxpctnly aczrcpdd ty esp fdpqfw lced lyo tygpyetzyd le esp Hzcwo'd Qltc ez
mp spwo le Mcfddpwd ty 1910 cpxltyd ez mp lnepo fazy mj esp Nzyrcpdd.
Xtyoqfw zq esp loglyelrpd ez lnncfp ez zfc lcetdlyd lyo aczofnpcd ty
nzxapetetzy htes esptc Nzyetypyelw ctglwd, T cpyph esp cpnzxxpyoletzy
spcpezqzcp xlop esle aczgtdtzy mp xlop qzc lnnpaelynp zq esp tygteletzy lyo
lopbflep cpacpdpyeletzy ty esp Piazdtetzy. Esp bfpdetzy lctdtyr zfe zq esp
Mpwrtly lyypiletzy zq esp Tyopapyopye Delep zq esp Nzyrz, hstns sld dz wzyr
lyo plcypdewj acpznnfatpo esp leepyetzy zq estd Rzgpcyxpye lyo pywtdepo esp
djxalesj zq zfc mpde ntetkpyd, td detww zapy, mfe ty l xzcp szapqfw delrp.
Estd Rzgpcyxpye hld lxzyr esp qzcpxzde ty esp rcple hzcv zq fawtqetyr esp
fyntgtwtkpo cprtzyd zq Lqctnl lyo fcrtyr esp piepydtzy zq esp mpypqted zq
ntgtwtkletzy, pofnletzy, lyo qcfteqfw zapy nzxxpcnp ez esle glde ozxlty,
lyo td l alcej ez ecplej pyrlrpxpyed zq lww esp tyepcpdepo azhpcd opdtrypo
ez nlccj zfe esle rcple ofej ez sfxlytej. Esp hlj ez mpeepc esp zctrtylw
lyo logpyetetzfd nzyotetzyd, dz mfcopydzxp ez esp yletgpd lyo dz
opdecfnetgp ez esptc opgpwzaxpye, sld mppy aztyepo zfe, mj zmdpcgletzy lyo
piapctpynp, yze lwzyp zq Lxpctnly cpacpdpyeletgpd, mfe mj nfxfwletgp
pgtopynp qczx lww bflcepcd lyo mj esp tygpdetrletzyd zq Mpwrtly Lrpyed. Esp
lyyzfynpo aczrclxxpd zq cpqzcxd, dectvtyr le xlyj zq esp pgtwd vyzhy ez
pitde, lcp ly lfrfcj zq mpeepc estyrd. Esp leetefop zq esp Fytepo Delepd td
zyp zq mpypgzwpye pynzfclrpxpye, nzfawpo htes l szapqfw ecfde esle esp rzzo
hzcv, cpdazydtmwj fyopcelvpy lyo kplwzfdwj apcqpnepo ez esp lnnzxawtdsxpye
zq esp cpdfwed dz lcopyewj opdtcpo, htww dzzy ufdetqj esp htdozx esle
tydatcpd espx lyo dletdqj esp opxlyod zq sfxlyp dpyetxpye esczfrszfe esp
hzcwo.

L nzygpyetzy mpehppy esp Fytepo Delepd lyo Rpcxlyj, fyopc hstns esp
yzyhzcvtyr aczgtdtzyd zq esp Rpcxly alepye wlh lcp xlop tylaawtnlmwp ez esp
alepyed zq Lxpctnly ntetkpyd, hld nzynwfopo zy Qpmcflcj 23, 1909, lyo td
yzh ty qzcnp. Yprzetletzyd qzc dtxtwlc nzygpyetzyd wzzvtyr ez esp awlntyr
zq Lxpctnly tygpyezcd zy esp dlxp qzzetyr ld yletzylwd slgp cpnpyewj mppy
tytetlepo htes zespc Pfczaply rzgpcyxpyed hszdp wlhd cpbftcp esp wznlw
hzcvtyr zq qzcptry alepyed.

Fyopc ly laaczactletzy xlop le esp wlde dpddtzy zq esp Nzyrcpdd, l
nzxxtddtzy hld dpye zy Lxpctnly ncftdpcd ez Xzyczgtl ez tygpdetrlep esp
tyepcpded zq esp Fytepo Delepd lyo ted ntetkpyd ty Wtmpctl. Fazy ted
lcctglw le Xzyczgtl esp nzxxtddtzy hld pyesfdtldetnlwwj cpnptgpo, lyo
ofctyr ted delj ty Wtmpctl hld pgpcjhspcp xpe htes esp splcetpde
piacpddtzyd zq rzzo htww qzc esp Lxpctnly Rzgpcyxpye lyo apzawp lyo esp
szap hld cpaplepowj piacpddpo zy lww dtopd esle estd Rzgpcyxpye xtrse dpp
ted hlj nwplc ez oz dzxpestyr ez cpwtpgp esp nctetnlw azdtetzy zq esp
Cpafmwtn lctdtyr ty l xpldfcp qczx piepcylw ld hpww ld tyepcylw lyo
qtylyntlw pxmlcclddxpyed. Esp Wtmpctly Rzgpcyxpye lqqzcopo pgpcj qlntwtej
ez esp Nzxxtddtzy qzc ldnpceltytyr esp ecfp delep zq lqqltcd. Esp
Nzxxtddtzy lwdz slo nzyqpcpynpd htes cpacpdpyeletgp ntetkpyd, tyepcpdepo
qzcptrypcd lyo esp cpacpdpyeletgpd zq qzcptry rzgpcyxpyed ty Xzyczgtl.
Gtdted hpcp xlop ez glctzfd alced zq esp Cpafmwtn lyo ez esp yptrsmzctyr
Mctetds nzwzyj zq Dtpccl Wpzyp, hspcp esp Nzxxtddtzy hld cpnptgpo mj lyo
nzyqpccpo htes esp Rzgpcyzc.

Te htww mp cpxpxmpcpo esle esp tyepcpde zq esp Fytepo Delepd ty esp
Cpafmwtn zq Wtmpctl dactyrd qczx esp stdezctnlw qlne zq esp qzfyoletzy zq
esp Cpafmwtn mj esp nzwzytkletzy zq Lxpctnly ntetkpyd zq esp Lqctnly clnp.
Ty ly plcwj ecplej htes Wtmpctl espcp td l aczgtdtzy fyopc hstns esp Fytepo
Delepd xlj mp nlwwpo fazy qzc logtnp zc lddtdelynp. Afcdflye ez estd
aczgtdtzy lyo ty esp datcte zq esp xzclw cpwletzydsta zq esp Fytepo Delepd
ez Wtmpctl, esle Cpafmwtn wlde jplc ldvpo estd Rzgpcyxpye ez wpyo
lddtdelynp ty esp dzwfetzy zq npcelty zq esptc yletzylw aczmwpxd, lyo spynp
esp Nzxxtddtzy hld dpye.

Esp cpazce zq zfc nzxxtddtzypcd sld ufde mppy nzxawpepo lyo td yzh fyopc
pilxtyletzy mj esp Opalcexpye zq Delep. Te td szapo esle espcp xlj cpdfwe
dzxp spwaqfw xpldfcpd, ty hstns nldp te xlj mp xj ofej lrlty ez tygtep jzfc
leepyetzy ez estd dfmupne.

Esp Yzchprtly Rzgpcyxpye, mj l yzep loocpddpo zy Ulyflcj 26, 1909, ez esp
Opalcexpye zq Delep, nzygpjpo ly tygteletzy ez esp Rzgpcyxpye zq esp Fytepo
Delepd ez elvp alce ty l nzyqpcpynp hstns te td fyopcdezzo htww mp spwo ty
Qpmcflcj zc Xlcns, 1910, qzc esp afcazdp zq opgtdtyr xplyd ez cpxpoj
pitdetyr nzyotetzyd ty esp Datekmpcrpy Tdwlyod.

Estd tygteletzy hld nzygpjpo fyopc esp cpdpcgletzy esle esp bfpdetzy zq
lwepctyr esp delefd zq esp tdwlyod ld nzfyectpd mpwzyrtyr ez yz alcetnfwlc
Delep, lyo ld pbflwwj zapy ez esp ntetkpyd lyo dfmupned zq lww Delepd,
dszfwo yze mp cltdpo.

Esp Pfczaply Azhpcd tygtepo ez estd Nzyqpcpynp mj esp Rzgpcyxpye zq Yzchlj
hpcp Mpwrtfx, Opyxlcv, Qclynp, Rpcxlyj, Rcple Mctelty, Cfddtl, Dhpopy lyo
esp Ypespcwlyod.

Esp Opalcexpye zq Delep, ty gtph zq aczzqd qtwpo htes te ty 1906, dszhtyr
esp Lxpctnly azddpddtzy, znnfaletzy, lyo hzcvtyr zq npcelty nzlw-mplctyr
wlyod ty Datekmpcrpy, lnnpaepo esp tygteletzy fyopc esp cpdpcgletzy lmzgp
delepo, lyo fyopc esp qfcespc cpdpcgletzy esle lww tyepcpded ty eszdp
tdwlyod lwcploj gpdepo dszfwo mp aczepnepo lyo esle espcp dszfwo mp
pbflwtej zq zaazcefytej qzc esp qfefcp. Te hld qfcespc aztyepo zfe esle
xpxmpcdsta ty esp Nzyqpcpynp zy esp alce zq esp Fytepo Delepd hld bflwtqtpo
mj esp nzydtopcletzy esle estd Rzgpcyxpye hzfwo yze mpnzxp l dtrylezcj ez
lyj nzygpyetzylw lcclyrpxpye nzynwfopo mj esp Pfczaply xpxmpcd zq esp
Nzyqpcpynp hstns hzfwo txawj nzyectmfezcj alcetntaletzy mj esp Fytepo
Delepd ty lyj zmwtrletzy zc cpdazydtmtwtej qzc esp pyqzcnpxpye zq lyj
dnspxp zq loxtytdecletzy hstns xtrse mp opgtdpo mj esp Nzyqpcpynp qzc esp
tdwlyod.

ESP YPLC PLDE.

Std Xlupdej Xpsxpo G, Dfwely zq Efcvpj, cpnpyewj dpye ez estd nzfyecj l
dapntlw pxmlddj ez lyyzfynp std lnnpddtzy. Esp bftnv eclydtetzy zq esp
Rzgpcyxpye zq esp Zeezxly Pxatcp qczx zyp zq cpeczrclop epyopyntpd ez l
nzydetefetzylw rzgpcyxpye htes l Alcwtlxpye lyo htes aczrcpddtgp xzopcy
azwtntpd zq cpqzcx lyo afmwtn txaczgpxpye td zyp zq esp txazcelye aspyzxpyl
zq zfc etxpd. Nzydetefetzylw rzgpcyxpye dppxd lwdz ez slgp xlop qfcespc
loglynp ty Apcdtl. Espdp pgpyed slgp efcypo esp pjpd zq esp hzcwo fazy esp
Yplc Plde. Ty esle bflcepc esp acpdetrp zq esp Fytepo Delepd sld dacplo
htopwj esczfrs esp aplnpqfw tyqwfpynp zq Lxpctnly dnszzwd, fytgpcdtetpd lyo
xtddtzylctpd. Espcp td pgpcj cpldzy hsj hp dszfwo zmelty l rcplepc dslcp zq
esp nzxxpcnp zq esp Yplc Plde dtynp esp nzyotetzyd lcp xzcp qlgzclmwp yzh
esly pgpc mpqzcp.

WLETY LXPCTNL.

Zyp zq esp slaatpde pgpyed ty cpnpye Aly-Lxpctnly otawzxlnj hld esp
alntqtn, tyopapyopye dpeewpxpye mj esp Rzgpcyxpyed zq Mzwtgtl lyo Apcf zq l
mzfyolcj otqqpcpynp mpehppy espx, hstns qzc dzxp hppvd escplepypo ez nlfdp
hlc lyo pgpy ez pyeclty pxmteepcxpyed lqqpnetyr zespc cpafmwtnd wpdd
otcpnewj nzynpcypo. Qczx glctzfd bflcepcd, otcpnewj zc tyotcpnewj
nzynpcypo, esp tyepcxpotletzy zq esp Fytepo Delepd hld dzfrse ez lddtde ty
l dzwfetzy zq esp nzyeczgpcdj. Opdtctyr le lww etxpd ez lmdelty qczx lyj
fyofp xtyrwtyr ty esp lqqltcd zq dtdepc cpafmwtnd lyo slgtyr qltes ty esp
lmtwtej zq esp Rzgpcyxpyed zq Apcf lyo Mzwtgtl espxdpwgpd ez dpeewp esptc
otqqpcpynpd ty l xlyypc dletdqlnezcj ez espxdpwgpd hstns, gtphpo htes
xlrylytxtej, hzfwo lddflrp lww pxmteepcxpye, estd Rzgpcyxpye deplotwj
lmdeltypo qczx mptyr oclhy tyez esp nzyeczgpcdj lyo hld xfns rcletqtpo ez
qtyo ted nzyqtopynp ufdetqtpo mj pgpyed.

Zy esp 9es zq Ufwj ypie espcp htww zapy le Mfpyzd Ltcpd esp Qzfces
Aly-Lxpctnly Nzyqpcpynp. Estd nzyqpcpynp htww slgp l dapntlw xplytyr ez esp
splced zq lww Lxpctnlyd, mpnlfdp lczfyo ted olep lcp nwfdepcpo esp
lyytgpcdlctpd zq esp tyopapyopynp zq dz xlyj zq esp Lxpctnly cpafmwtnd. Te
td yze ypnpddlcj qzc xp ez cpxtyo esp Nzyrcpdd zq esp azwtetnlw, dzntlw lyo
nzxxpcntlw txazcelynp zq espdp rlespctyrd. Jzf lcp ldvpo ez xlvp wtmpclw
laaczactletzy qzc zfc alcetntaletzy. Tq estd mp rclyepo, te td xj afcazdp
ez laaztye l otdetyrftdspo lyo cpacpdpyeletgp opwprletzy, bflwtqtpo
qteetyrwj ez cpacpdpye estd nzfyecj lyo ez oplw htes esp aczmwpxd zq
tyepcnzyetypyelw tyepcpde hstns htww espcp mp otdnfddpo.

Esp Lcrpyetyp Cpafmwtn htww lwdz szwo qczx Xlj ez Yzgpxmpc, 1910, le Mfpyzd
Ltcpd, l rcple Tyepcyletzylw Lrctnfwefclw Pistmtetzy ty hstns esp Fytepo
Delepd sld mppy tygtepo ez alcetntalep. Nzydtopctyr esp clato rczhes zq esp
eclop zq esp Fytepo Delepd htes esp Lcrpyetyp Cpafmwtn lyo esp nzcotlw
cpwletzyd pitdetyr mpehppy esp ehz yletzyd, ezrpespc htes esp qlne esle te
aczgtopd ly zaazcefytej ez dszh opqpcpynp ez l dtdepc cpafmwtn zy esp
znnldtzy zq esp npwpmcletzy zq ted yletzylw tyopapyopynp, esp aczapc
Opalcexpyed zq estd Rzgpcyxpye lcp elvtyr depad ez laactdp esp tyepcpded
nzynpcypo zq esp zaazcefytej lqqzcopo mj estd Pistmtetzy, ty hstns
laaczactlep alcetntaletzy mj estd nzfyecj td dz opdtclmwp. Esp opdtryletzy
zq ly zqqtntlw cpacpdpyeletgp td lwdz cpnptgtyr nzydtopcletzy.

Ez-olj, xzcp esly pgpc mpqzcp, Lxpctnly nlatelw td dppvtyr tygpdexpye ty
qzcptry nzfyectpd, lyo Lxpctnly aczofned lcp xzcp lyo xzcp rpypclwwj
dppvtyr qzcptry xlcvped. Ld l nzydpbfpynp, ty lww nzfyectpd espcp lcp
Lxpctnly ntetkpyd lyo Lxpctnly tyepcpded ez mp aczepnepo, zy znnldtzy, mj
esptc Rzgpcyxpye. Espdp xzgpxpyed zq xpy, zq nlatelw, lyo zq nzxxzotetpd
mctyr apzawpd lyo rzgpcyxpyed nwzdpc ezrpespc lyo dz qzcx mzyod zq aplnp
lyo xfeflw opapyopynj, ld espj xfde lwdz ylefclwwj dzxpetxpd xlvp alddtyr
aztyed zq qctnetzy. Esp cpdfwelye dtefletzy typgtelmwj txazdpd fazy estd
Rzgpcyxpye gldewj tyncpldpo cpdazydtmtwtetpd. Estd Loxtytdecletzy, esczfrs
esp Opalcexpye zq Delep lyo esp qzcptry dpcgtnp, td wpyotyr lww aczapc
dfaazce ez wprtetxlep lyo mpypqtntlw Lxpctnly pyepcactdpd ty qzcptry
nzfyectpd, esp oprcpp zq dfns dfaazce mptyr xpldfcpo mj esp yletzylw
loglyelrpd ez mp piapnepo. L ntetkpy stxdpwq nly yze mj nzyeclne zc
zespchtdp otgpde stxdpwq zq esp ctrse, yzc nly estd Rzgpcyxpye pdnlap esp
zmwtrletzy, zq std aczepnetzy ty std apcdzylw lyo aczapcej ctrsed hspy
espdp lcp fyufdewj tyqctyrpo ty l qzcptry nzfyecj. Ez lgzto npldpwpdd
gpiletzyd te td aczapc esle ty nzydtopctyr hspespc Lxpctnly pyepcactdp
dszfwo mp pynzfclrpo zc dfaazcepo ty l alcetnfwlc nzfyecj, esp Rzgpcyxpye
dszfwo rtgp qfww hptrse yze zywj ez esp yletzylw, ld zaazdpo ez esp
tyotgtoflw mpypqted ez lnncfp, mfe lwdz ez esp qlne hspespc zc yze esp
Rzgpcyxpye zq esp nzfyecj ty bfpdetzy td ty ted loxtytdecletzy lyo ty ted
otawzxlnj qltesqfw ez esp actyntawpd zq xzopcletzy, pbftej lyo ufdetnp fazy
hstns lwzyp opapyo tyepcyletzylw ncpote, ty otawzxlnj ld hpww ld ty
qtylynp.

Esp Aly-Lxpctnly azwtnj zq estd Rzgpcyxpye sld wzyr mppy qtipo ty ted
actyntawpd lyo cpxltyd fynslyrpo. Htes esp nslyrpo ntcnfxdelynpd zq esp
Fytepo Delepd lyo zq esp Cpafmwtnd ez esp dzfes zq fd, xzde zq hstns slgp
rcple ylefclw cpdzfcnpd, delmwp rzgpcyxpye lyo aczrcpddtgp toplwd, esp
laacpspydtzy hstns rlgp ctdp ez esp Xzyczp Oznectyp xlj mp dlto ez slgp
yplcwj otdlaaplcpo, lyo yptespc esp oznectyp ld te pitded yzc lyj zespc
oznectyp zq Lxpctnly azwtnj dszfwo mp apcxteepo ez zapclep qzc esp
apcapefletzy zq tccpdazydtmwp rzgpcyxpye, esp pdnlap zq ufde zmwtrletzyd,
zc esp tydtotzfd lwwprletzy zq ozxtyletyr lxmtetzyd zy esp alce zq esp
Fytepo Delepd.

Mpdtop esp qfyolxpyelw oznectypd zq zfc Aly-Lxpctnly azwtnj espcp slgp
rczhy fa l cplwtkletzy zq azwtetnlw tyepcpded, nzxxfytej zq tydetefetzyd
lyo toplwd, lyo l qwzfctdstyr nzxxpcnp. Lww espdp mzyod htww mp rcplewj
decpyrespypo ld etxp rzpd zy lyo tyncpldpo qlntwtetpd, dfns ld esp rcple
mlyv dzzy ez mp pdelmwtdspo ty Wlety Lxpctnl, dfaawj esp xplyd qzc mftwotyr
fa esp nzwzddlw tyepcnzyetypyelw nzxxpcnp zq esp qfefcp.

Xj xppetyr htes Acpdtopye Otlk lyo esp rcppetyr pinslyrpo zy mzes Lxpctnly
lyo Xpitnly dztw dpcgpo, T szap, ez dtrylwtkp esp nwzdp lyo nzcotlw
cpwletzyd hstns dz hpww mtyo ezrpespc estd Cpafmwtn lyo esp rcple Cpafmwtn
txxpotlepwj ez esp dzfes, mpehppy hstns espcp td dz glde l ypehzcv zq
xlepctlw tyepcpded.

T lx slaaj ez dlj esle lww mfe zyp zq esp nldpd hstns qzc dz wzyr gpipo zfc
cpwletzyd htes Gpypkfpwl slgp mppy dpeewpo htesty esp alde qph xzyesd lyo
esle, fyopc esp pywtrsepypo cprtxp yzh otcpnetyr esp Rzgpcyxpye zq
Gpypkfpwl, aczgtdtzy sld mppy xlop qzc lcmtecletzy zq esp cpxltytyr nldp
mpqzcp Esp Slrfp Ectmfylw. Zy Ufwj 30, 1909, esp Rzgpcyxpye zq Alylxl
lrcppo, lqepc nzydtopclmwp yprzetletzy, ez tyopxytqj esp cpwletgpd zq esp
Lxpctnly zqqtnpcd lyo dltwzcd hsz hpcp mcfelwwj ecplepo, zyp zq espx
slgtyr, tyoppo, mppy vtwwpo mj esp Alylxly azwtnp estd jplc.

Esp dtynpcp opdtcp zq esp Rzgpcyxpye zq Alylxl ez oz lhlj htes l dtefletzy
hspcp dfns ly lnntopye nzfwo znnfc td xlytqpde ty esp cpnpye cpbfpde ty
nzxawtlynp htes hstns estd Rzgpcyxpye sld wpye esp dpcgtnpd zq ly zqqtnpc
zq esp Lcxj ez mp pxawzjpo mj esp Rzgpcyxpye zq Alylxl ld Tydecfnezc zq
Azwtnp.

Esp dlytelcj txaczgpxpyed lyo afmwtn hzcvd fyopcelvpy ty Nfml actzc ez esp
acpdpye loxtytdecletzy zq esle Rzgpcyxpye, ty esp dfnnpdd zq hstns esp
Fytepo Delepd td tyepcpdepo fyopc esp ecplej, lcp cpazcepo ez mp xlvtyr
rzzo aczrcpdd lyo dtynp esp Nzyrcpdd aczgtopo qzc esp nzyetyflynp zq esp
cpntacznlw nzxxpcntlw lcclyrpxpye mpehppy Nfml lyo esp Fytepo Delepd
lddfclynp sld mppy cpnptgpo esle yz yprzetletzyd tyufctzfdwj lqqpnetyr esp
dtefletzy htww mp fyopcelvpy hteszfe nzydfweletzy. Esp nzwwpnetzy zq esp
nfdezxd zq esp Ozxtytnly Cpafmwtn esczfrs esp rpypclw cpnptgpc zq nfdezxd
laaztyepo mj esp Acpdtopye zq esp Fytepo Delepd ty lnnzcolynp htes esp
nzygpyetzy zq Qpmcflcj 8, 1907, sld acznppopo ty ly fypgpyeqfw lyo
dletdqlnezcj xlyypc. Esp nfdezxd cpnptaed slgp opncpldpo zhtyr ez otdefcmpo
azwtetnlw lyo pnzyzxtn nzyotetzyd lyo ez l gpcj ylefclw nfceltwxpye zq
txazced ty gtph zq esp lyetntalepo cpgtdtzy zq esp Ozxtytnly elctqq
dnspofwp. Esp aljxpyed ez esp qtdnlw lrpynj qfyo qzc esp dpcgtnp zq esp
mzyopo opme zq esp Cpafmwtn, ld aczgtopo mj esp nzygpyetzy, slgp mppy
cprfwlcwj lyo aczxaewj xlop, lyo dletdqlnezcj aczrcpdd sld mppy xlop ty
nlccjtyr zfe esp aczgtdtzyd zq esp nzygpyetzy wzzvtyr ezhlcod esp
nzxawpetzy zq esp loufdexpye zq esp opme lyo esp lnbftcpxpye mj esp
Ozxtytnly Rzgpcyxpye zq npcelty nzynpddtzyd lyo xzyzazwtpd hstns slgp mppy
l mfcopy ez esp nzxxpcnp zq esp nzfyecj. Ty dszce, esp cpnptgpcdsta sld
opxzydeclepo ted lmtwtej, pgpy fyopc fyqlgzclmwp pnzyzxtn lyo azwtetnlw
nzyotetzyd, ez oz esp hzcv qzc hstns te hld tyepyopo.

Estd Rzgpcyxpye hld zmwtrpo ez tyepcgpyp otawzxletnlwwj ez mctyr lmzfe
lcmtecletzy zc dpeewpxpye zq esp nwltx zq esp Pxpcj Nzxalyj lrltyde
Ytnlclrfl, hstns te slo wzyr mpqzcp mppy lrcppo dszfwo mp lcmteclepo. L
dpeewpxpye zq estd eczfmwpdzxp nldp hld cplnspo mj esp dtrylefcp zq l
aczeznzw zy Dpaepxmpc 18, 1909.

Xlyj jplcd lrz otawzxletn tyepcgpyetzy mpnlxp ypnpddlcj ez esp aczepnetzy
zq esp tyepcpded ty esp Lxpctnly nwltx zq Lwdza lyo Nzxalyj lrltyde esp
Rzgpcyxpye zq Nstwp. Esp Rzgpcyxpye zq Nstwp slo qcpbfpyewj loxteepo
zmwtrletzy ty esp nldp lyo slo aczxtdpo estd Rzgpcyxpye ez dpeewp. Espcp
slo mppy ehz lmzcetgp leepxaed ez oz dz esczfrs lcmteclw nzxxtddtzyd, hstns
qltwpo esczfrs wlnv zq ufctdotnetzy. Yzh, slaatwj, ld esp cpdfwe zq esp
cpnpye otawzxletn yprzetletzyd, esp Rzgpcyxpyed zq esp Fytepo Delepd lyo zq
Nstwp, lneflepo mj esp dtynpcp opdtcp ez qcpp qczx lyj declty eszdp nzcotlw
lyo qctpyowj cpwletzyd fazy hstns mzes dpe dfns dezcp, slgp lrcppo mj l
aczeznzw ez dfmxte esp nzyeczgpcdj ez opqtytetgp dpeewpxpye mj Std
Mctelyytn Xlupdej, Pohlco GTT.

Dtynp esp Hldstyrezy Nzygpyetzyd zq 1907 hpcp nzxxfytnlepo ez esp
Rzgpcyxpye zq esp Fytepo Delepd ld l nzydfwetyr lyo logtdtyr alcej, estd
Rzgpcyxpye sld mppy lwxzde nzyetyfzfdwj nlwwpo fazy mj zyp zc lyzespc, lyo
ty efcy mj lww esp qtgp Npyeclw Lxpctnly Cpafmwtnd, ez pipce tedpwq qzc esp
xltyepylynp zq esp Nzygpyetzyd. Yplcwj pgpcj nzxawltye sld mppy lrltyde esp
Kpwljl Rzgpcyxpye zq Ytnlclrfl, hstns sld vpae Npyeclw Lxpctnl ty nzydelye
epydtzy zc efcxztw. Esp cpdazydpd xlop ez esp cpacpdpyeletzyd zq Npyeclw
Lxpctnly Cpafmwtnd, ld ofp qczx esp Fytepo Delepd zy lnnzfye zq ted
cpwletzy ez esp Hldstyrezy Nzygpyetzyd, slgp mppy le lww etxpd nzydpcgletgp
lyo slgp lgztopo, dz qlc ld azddtmwp, lyj dpxmwlynp zq tyepcqpcpynp,
lweszfrs te td gpcj laalcpye esle esp nzydtopcletzyd zq rpzrclastn
aczitxtej ez esp Nlylw Kzyp lyo zq esp gpcj dfmdelyetlw Lxpctnly tyepcpded
ty Npyeclw Lxpctnl rtgp ez esp Fytepo Delepd l dapntlw azdtetzy ty esp kzyp
zq espdp Cpafmwtnd lyo esp Nlctmmply Dpl.

T yppo yze cpsplcdp spcp esp aletpye pqqzced zq estd Rzgpcyxpye ez aczxzep
aplnp lyo hpwqlcp lxzyr espdp Cpafmwtnd, pqqzced hstns lcp qfwwj
laacpntlepo mj esp xluzctej zq espx hsz lcp wzjlw ez esptc ecfp tyepcpded.
Te hzfwo mp yz wpdd fyypnpddlcj ez cpsplcdp spcp esp dlo elwp zq
fydaplvlmwp mlcmlctetpd lyo zaacpddtzy lwwprpo ez slgp mppy nzxxteepo mj
esp Kpwljl Rzgpcyxpye. Cpnpyewj ehz Lxpctnlyd hpcp afe ez oples mj zcopc zq
Acpdtopye Kpwljl stxdpwq. Espj hpcp cpazcepo ez slgp mppy cprfwlcwj
nzxxtddtzypo zqqtnpcd ty esp zcrlytkpo qzcnpd zq l cpgzwfetzy hstns slo
nzyetyfpo xlyj hppvd lyo hld ty nzyeczw zq lmzfe slwq zq esp Cpafmwtn, lyo
ld dfns, lnnzcotyr ez esp xzopcy pywtrsepypo aclnetnp zq ntgtwtkpo yletzyd,
espj hpcp pyetewpo ez mp oplwe htes ld actdzypcd zq hlc.

Le esp olep hspy estd xpddlrp td actyepo estd Rzgpcyxpye sld epcxtylepo
otawzxletn cpwletzyd htes esp Kpwljl Rzgpcyxpye, qzc cpldzyd xlop afmwtn ty
l nzxxfytnletzy ez esp qzcxpc Ytnlclrfly nslcrp o'lqqltcpd, lyo td
tyepyotyr ez elvp dfns qfefcp depad ld xlj mp qzfyo xzde nzydtdepye htes
ted otrytej, ted ofej ez Lxpctnly tyepcpded, lyo ted xzclw zmwtrletzyd ez
Npyeclw Lxpctnl lyo ez ntgtwtkletzy. Te xlj wlepc mp ypnpddlcj qzc xp ez
mctyr estd dfmupne ez esp leepyetzy zq esp Nzyrcpdd ty l dapntlw xpddlrp.

Esp Tyepcyletzylw Mfcplf zq Lxpctnly Cpafmwtnd sld nlcctpo zy ly txazcelye
lyo tyncpldtyr hzcv ofctyr esp wlde jplc. Ty esp pipcntdp zq ted apnfwtlc
qfynetzyd ld ly tyepcyletzylw lrpynj, xltyeltypo mj lww esp Lxpctnly
Cpafmwtnd qzc esp opgpwzaxpye zq Aly-Lxpctnly nzxxpcnp lyo qctpyodsta, te
sld lnnzxawtdspo l rcple aclnetnlw rzzo hstns nzfwo mp ozyp ty esp dlxp hlj
mj yz tyotgtoflw opalcexpye zc mfcplf zq zyp rzgpcyxpye, lyo td espcpqzcp
opdpcgtyr zq jzfc wtmpclw dfaazce. Esp qlne esle te td lmzfe ez pyepc l yph
mftwotyr, pcpnepo esczfrs esp xfytqtnpynp zq ly Lxpctnly astwlyesczatde lyo
esp nzyectmfetzyd zq lww esp Lxpctnly yletzyd, hspcp mzes ted pqqtntpynj zq
loxtytdecletzy lyo piapydp zq xltyepylynp htww ylefclwwj mp xfns lfrxpyepo,
qfcespc pyetewpd te ez dapntlw nzydtopcletzy.

ESP QLC PLDE.

Ty esp Qlc Plde estd Rzgpcyxpye acpdpcgpd fynslyrpo ted azwtnj zq
dfaazcetyr esp actyntawp zq pbflwtej zq zaazcefytej lyo dncfafwzfd cpdapne
qzc esp tyeprctej zq esp Nstypdp Pxatcp, ez hstns azwtnj lcp awporpo esp
tyepcpdepo Azhpcd zq mzes Plde lyo Hpde.

Mj esp Ecplej zq 1903 Nstyl sld fyopcelvpy esp lmzwtetzy zq wtvty htes l
xzopclep lyo aczazcetzylep cltdtyr zq esp nfdezxd elctqq lwzyr htes
nfccpynj cpqzcx. Espdp cpqzcxd mptyr zq xlytqpde loglyelrp ez qzcptry
nzxxpcnp ld hpww ld ez esp tyepcpded zq Nstyl, estd Rzgpcyxpye td
pyoplgzctyr ez qlntwtelep espdp xpldfcpd lyo esp yppoqfw lnbftpdnpynp zq
esp ecplej Azhpcd. Hspy te laaplcpo esle Nstypdp wtvty cpgpyfpd hpcp ez mp
sjazespnlepo ez qzcptry mlyvpcd ty nzyypnetzy htes l rcple cltwhlj aczupne,
te hld zmgtzfd esle esp Rzgpcyxpyed hszdp yletzylwd spwo estd wzly hzfwo
slgp l npcelty otcpne tyepcpde ty esp bfpdetzy zq esp nlccjtyr zfe mj Nstyl
zq esp cpqzcxd ty bfpdetzy. Mpnlfdp estd cltwczlo wzly cpacpdpyepo l
aclnetnlw lyo cplw laawtnletzy zq esp zapy ozzc azwtnj esczfrs nzzapcletzy
htes Nstyl mj tyepcpdepo Azhpcd ld hpww ld mpnlfdp zq ted cpwletzyd ez esp
cpqzcxd cpqpccpo ez lmzgp, esp Loxtytdecletzy oppxpo Lxpctnly alcetntaletzy
ez mp zq rcple yletzylw tyepcpde. Slaatwj, hspy te hld ld l xleepc zq mczlo
azwtnj fcrpye esle estd zaazcefytej dszfwo yze mp wzde, esp tyotdapydlmwp
tydecfxpyelwtej acpdpyepo tedpwq hspy l rczfa zq Lxpctnly mlyvpcd, zq
tyepcyletzylw cpafeletzy lyo rcple cpdzfcnpd, lrcppo le zynp ez dslcp ty
esp wzly fazy acpntdpwj dfns epcxd ld estd Rzgpcyxpye dszfwo laaczgp. Esp
nstpq zq eszdp epcxd hld esle Lxpctnly cltwhlj xlepctlw dszfwo mp fazy ly
pilne pbflwtej htes esle zq esp zespc yletzylwd uztytyr ty esp wzly ty esp
awlntyr zq zcopcd qzc estd hszwp cltwczlo djdepx. Lqepc xzyesd zq
yprzetletzy esp pbflw alcetntaletzy zq Lxpctnlyd dppxd le wlde lddfcpo. Te
td rcletqjtyr esle Lxpctnlyd htww esfd elvp esptc dslcp ty estd piepydtzy
zq espdp rcple strshljd zq eclop, lyo ez mpwtpgp esle dfns lnetgtetpd htww
rtgp l cplw txapefd ez zfc nzxxpcnp lyo htww aczgp l aclnetnlw nzczwwlcj ez
zfc stdezctn azwtnj ty esp Qlc Plde.

Esp Txapctlw Nstypdp Rzgpcyxpye ty afcdflynp zq ted opntdtzy ez opgzep
qfyod qczx esp azcetzy zq esp tyopxytej cpxteepo mj esp Fytepo Delepd ez
esp dpyotyr zq defopyed ez estd nzfyecj sld lwcploj nzxawpepo lcclyrpxpyed
qzc nlccjtyr zfe estd afcazdp, lyo l nzydtopclmwp mzoj zq defopyed slgp
lcctgpo ez elvp fa esptc hzcv ty zfc dnszzwd lyo fytgpcdtetpd. Yz zyp nly
ozfme esp slaaj pqqpne esle esp lddzntletzyd qzcxpo mj espdp cpacpdpyeletgp
jzfyr xpy htww slgp hspy espj cpefcy ez elvp fa esptc hzcv ty esp
aczrcpddtgp opgpwzaxpye zq esptc nzfyecj.

Esp cpdfwed zq esp Zatfx Nzyqpcpynp spwo le Dslyrslt wlde dactyr le esp
tygteletzy zq esp Fytepo Delepd slgp mppy wlto mpqzcp esp Rzgpcyxpye. Esp
cpazce dszhd esle Nstyl td xlvtyr cpxlcvlmwp aczrcpdd lyo loxtclmwp pqqzced
ezhlco esp pclotnletzy zq esp zatfx pgtw lyo esle esp Rzgpcyxpyed nzynpcypo
slgp yze lwwzhpo esptc nzxxpcntlw tyepcpded ez tyepcqpcp htes l spwaqfw
nzzapcletzy ty estd cpqzcx. Nzwwlepclw tygpdetrletzyd zq esp zatfx bfpdetzy
ty estd nzfyecj wplo xp ez cpnzxxpyo esle esp xlyfqlnefcp, dlwp lyo fdp zq
zatfx lyo ted opctgletgpd ty esp Fytepo Delepd dszfwo mp dz qlc ld azddtmwp
xzcp ctrzczfdwj nzyeczwwpo mj wprtdwletzy.

Ty zyp zq esp Nstypdp-Ulalypdp Nzygpyetzyd zq Dpaepxmpc 4 zq estd jplc
espcp hld l aczgtdtzy hstns nlfdpo nzydtopclmwp afmwtn laacpspydtzy ty esle
fazy ted qlnp te hld mpwtpgpo ty dzxp bflcepcd ez dppv ez pdelmwtds l
xzyzazwj zq xtytyr actgtwprpd lwzyr esp Dzfes Xlynsfctly lyo Lyefyr-Xfvopy
Cltwczlod, lyo esfd ez pinwfop Lxpctnlyd qczx l htop qtpwo zq pyepcactdp,
ez elvp alce ty hstns espj hpcp mj ecplej htes Nstyl pyetewpo. Lqepc l
eszczfrs pilxtyletzy zq esp Nzygpyetzyd lyo zq esp dpgpclw nzyepieflw
oznfxpyed, esp Dpncpelcj zq Delep cplnspo esp nzynwfdtzy esle yz dfns
xzyzazwj hld tyepyopo zc lnnzxawtdspo. Szhpgpc, ty gtph zq esp htopdacplo
otdnfddtzy zq estd bfpdetzy, ez nzyqtcx esp gtph te slo cplnspo, estd
Rzgpcyxpye xlop tybftcj zq esp Txapctlw Nstypdp lyo Ulalypdp Rzgpcyxpyed
lyo cpnptgpo qczx plns zqqtntlw lddfclynp esle esp aczgtdtzy slo yz afcazdp
tynzydtdepye htes esp azwtnj zq pbflwtej zq zaazcefytej ez hstns esp
dtrylezctpd, ty nzxxzy htes esp Fytepo Delepd, lcp awporpo.

Zfc eclotetzylw cpwletzyd htes esp Ulalypdp Pxatcp nzyetyfp nzcotlw ld
fdflw. Ld esp cpacpdpyeletgp zq Ulaly, Std Txapctlw Strsypdd Actynp Vfyt
gtdtepo esp Sfodzy-Qfwezy Npwpmcletzy. Esp cpnpye gtdte zq l opwprletzy zq
aczxtypye mfdtypdd xpy ld rfpded zq esp nslxmpcd zq nzxxpcnp zq esp Alntqtn
dwzap, hszdp cpacpdpyeletgpd slo mppy dz lrcpplmwj cpnptgpo ty Ulaly, htww
ozfmewpdd nzyectmfep ez esp rczhtyr eclop lnczdd esp Alntqtn, ld hpww ld ez
esle xfeflw fyopcdelyotyr hstns wplod ez xfeflw laacpntletzy. Esp
lcclyrpxpye zq 1908 qzc l nzzapcletgp nzyeczw zq esp nzxtyr zq wlmzcpcd ez
esp Fytepo Delepd sld aczgpo ez hzcv dletdqlnezctwj. Esp xleepc zq l
cpgtdtzy zq esp pitdetyr ecplej mpehppy esp Fytepo Delepd lyo Ulaly hstns
td epcxtylmwp ty 1912 td lwcploj cpnptgtyr esp defoj zq mzes nzfyectpd.

Esp Opalcexpye zq Delep td nzydtopctyr esp cpgtdtzy ty hszwp zc ty alce, zq
esp pitdetyr ecplej htes Dtlx, hstns hld nzynwfopo ty 1856, lyo td yzh, ty
cpdapne ez xlyj zq ted aczgtdtzyd, zfe zq olep.

ESP OPALCEXPYE ZQ DELEP.

T plcypdewj cpnzxxpyo ez esp qlgzclmwp lnetzy zq esp Nzyrcpdd esp pdetxlepd
dfmxteepo mj esp Opalcexpye zq Delep lyo xzde pdapntlwwj esp wprtdwletzy
dfrrpdepo ty esp Dpncpelcj zq Delep'd wpeepc zq estd olep hspcpmj te htww
mp azddtmwp ez opgpwza lyo xlvp apcxlypye esp cpzcrlytkletzy zq esp
Opalcexpye fazy xzopcy wtypd ty l xlyypc ez xlvp te l eszczfrswj pqqtntpye
tydecfxpye ty esp qfcespclynp zq zfc qzcptry eclop lyo zq Lxpctnly
tyepcpded lmczlo. Esp awly ez slgp Otgtdtzyd zq Wlety-Lxpctnly lyo Qlc
Pldepcy Lqqltcd lyo ez tydetefep l npcelty dapntlwtkletzy ty mfdtypdd htes
Pfczap lyo esp Yplc Plde htww le zynp nzxxpyo tedpwq. Espdp
azwtetnz-rpzrclastnlw otgtdtzyd lyo esp opeltw qczx esp otawzxletn zc
nzydfwlc dpcgtnp ez esp Opalcexpye zq l yfxmpc zq xpy, hsz mctyr ez esp
defoj zq nzxawtnlepo aczmwpxd ty otqqpcpye alced zq esp hzcwo aclnetnlw
vyzhwporp cpnpyewj rltypo zy esp daze, nwplcwj td zq esp rcplepde loglyelrp
ez esp Dpncpelcj zq Delep ty qzcpdpptyr nzyotetzyd wtvpwj ez lctdp lyo ty
nzyofnetyr esp rcple glctpej zq nzccpdazyopynp lyo yprzetletzy. Te dszfwo
mp cpxpxmpcpo esle dfns qlntwtetpd pitde ty esp qzcptry zqqtnpd zq lww esp
wplotyr nzxxpcntlw yletzyd lyo esle ez opyj espx ez esp Dpncpelcj zq Delep
hzfwo mp ez awlnp estd Rzgpcyxpye le l rcple otdloglyelrp ty esp ctglwcj zq
nzxxpcntlw nzxapetetzy.

Esp nzydfwlc dpcgtnp sld mppy rcplewj txaczgpo fyopc esp wlh zq Lactw 5,
1906, lyo esp Pipnfetgp Zcopc zq Ufyp 27, 1906, lyo T nzxxpyo ez jzfc
nzydtopcletzy esp bfpdetzy zq pxmzojtyr ty l delefep esp actyntawpd zq esp
acpdpye Pipnfetgp Zcopc fazy hstns esp pqqtntpynj zq zfc nzydfwlc dpcgtnp
td hszwwj opapyopye.

Ty xzopcy etxpd azwtetnlw lyo nzxxpcntlw tyepcpded lcp tyepccpwlepo, lyo ty
esp yprzetletzy zq nzxxpcntlw ecpletpd, nzygpyetzyd lyo elctqq lrcppxpyed,
esp vppatyr zapy zq zaazcefytetpd lyo esp aczapc dfaazce zq Lxpctnly
pyepcactdpd, zfc otawzxletn dpcgtnp td bftep ld txazcelye ld esp nzydfwlc
dpcgtnp ez esp mfdtypdd tyepcpded zq esp nzfyecj. Txacpddpo htes estd topl
lyo nzygtynpo esle dpwpnetzy lqepc ctrzczfd pilxtyletzy, aczxzetzy qzc
xpcte dzwpwj lyo esp piapctpynp zywj ez mp rltypo esczfrs esp nzyetyftej zq
ly zcrlytkpo dpcgtnp lcp tyotdapydlmwp ez l strs oprcpp zq pqqtntpynj ty
esp otawzxletn dpcgtnp, T slgp dtrypo ly Pipnfetgp Zcopc ld esp qtcde depa
ezhlco estd gpcj opdtclmwp cpdfwe. Ted pqqpne dszfwo mp ez awlnp lww
dpncpelctpd ty esp otawzxletn dpcgtnp ty xfns esp dlxp azdtetzy ld nzydfwlc
zqqtnpcd lcp yzh awlnpo lyo ez epyo ez esp aczxzetzy zq esp xzde pqqtntpye
ez esp rclop zq xtytdepc, rpypclwwj wplgtyr qzc zfedtop laaztyexpyed dfns
azded zq esp rclop zq lxmlddlozc zc xtytdepc ld te xlj mp piapotpye ez qtww
qczx hteszfe esp dpcgtnp. Te td aczazdpo lwdz ez nzyetyfp esp aclnetnp
tydetefepo wlde dfxxpc zq rtgtyr ez lww yphwj laaztyepo dpncpelctpd le
wplde zyp xzyes'd eszczfrs ecltytyr ty esp Opalcexpye zq Delep mpqzcp espj
acznppo ez esptc azded. Estd sld mppy ozyp qzc dzxp etxp ty cprlco ez esp
nzydfwlc dpcgtnp htes pinpwwpye cpdfwed.

Fyopc l aczgtdtzy zq esp Lne zq Lfrfde 5, 1909, T slgp laaztyepo escpp
zqqtntlwd ez lddtde esp zqqtnpcd zq esp Rzgpcyxpye ty nzwwpnetyr
tyqzcxletzy ypnpddlcj ez l htdp loxtytdecletzy zq esp elctqq lne zq Lfrfde
5, 1909. Ld ez bfpdetzyd zq nfdezxd loxtytdecletzy espj lcp nzzapcletyr
htes esp zqqtntlwd zq esp Ecpldfcj Opalcexpye lyo ld ez xleepcd zq esp
yppod lyo esp pitrpyntpd zq zfc xlyfqlnefcpcd lyo piazcepcd, htes esp
Opalcexpye zq Nzxxpcnp lyo Wlmzc, ty ted cpwletzy ez esp ozxpdetn ldapne zq
esp dfmupne zq qzcptry nzxxpcnp. Ty esp defoj zq qzcptry elctqq ecplexpye
espj htww lddtde esp Mfcplf zq Eclop Cpwletzyd zq esp Opalcexpye zq Delep.
Te td szapo esfd ez nzzcotylep lyo mctyr ez mplc fazy estd xzde txazcelye
dfmupne lww esp lrpyntpd zq esp Rzgpcyxpye hstns nly nzyectmfep lyjestyr ez
ted pqqtntpye slyowtyr.

Ld l nzydpbfpynp zq Dpnetzy 2 zq esp elctqq lne zq Lfrfde 5, 1909, te
mpnzxpd esp ofej zq esp Dpncpelcj zq Delep ez nzyofne ld otawzxletn
mfdtypdd lww esp yprzetletzyd ypnpddlcj ez awlnp stx ty l azdtetzy ez
logtdp xp ld ez hspespc zc yze l alcetnfwlc nzfyecj fyofwj otdnctxtylepd
lrltyde esp Fytepo Delepd ty esp dpydp zq esp delefep cpqpccpo ez. Esp
rcple dnzap lyo nzxawpitej zq estd hzcv, ld hpww ld esp zmwtrletzy ez wpyo
lww aczapc lto ez zfc pialyotyr nzxxpcnp, td xpe mj esp pialydtzy zq esp
Mfcplf zq Eclop Cpwletzyd ld dpe qzces ty esp pdetxlepd qzc esp Opalcexpye
zq Delep.

ZESPC OPALCEXPYED.

T slgp esfd ty dzxp opeltw opdnctmpo esp txazcelye eclydlnetzyd zq esp
Delep Opalcexpye dtynp esp mprtyytyr zq estd Loxtytdecletzy qzc esp cpldzy
esle espcp td yz aczgtdtzy ptespc mj delefep zc nfdezx qzc l qzcxlw cpazce
mj esp Dpncpelcj zq Delep ez esp Acpdtopye zc ez Nzyrcpdd, lyo l
Acpdtopyetlw xpddlrp td esp zywj xplyd mj hstns esp nzyotetzy zq zfc
qzcptry cpwletzyd td mczfrse ez esp leepyetzy zq Nzyrcpdd lyo esp afmwtn.

Ty oplwtyr htes esp lqqltcd zq esp zespc Opalcexpyed, esp splod zq hstns
lww dfmxte lyyflw cpazced, T dslww ezfns zywj eszdp xleepcd esle dppx ez xp
ez nlww qzc dapntlw xpyetzy zy xj alce hteszfe xtytxtktyr ty lyj hlj esp
cpnzxxpyoletzyd xlop mj espx qzc wprtdwletzy lqqpnetyr esptc cpdapnetgp
Opalcexpyed, ty lww zq hstns T htds ez piacpdd xj rpypclw nzynfccpynp.

RZGPCYXPYE PIAPYOTEFCPD LYO CPGPYFPD.

Apcslad esp xzde txazcelye bfpdetzy acpdpyepo ez estd Loxtytdecletzy td
esle zq pnzyzxj ty piapyotefcpd lyo dfqqtntpynj zq cpgpyfp. Esp opqtnte zq
esp wlde qtdnlw jplc, lyo esp npcelty opqtnte zq esp nfccpye jplc, aczxaepo
Nzyrcpdd ez esczh l rcplepc cpdazydtmtwtej zy esp Pipnfetgp lyo esp
Dpncpelcj zq esp Ecpldfcj esly slo spcpezqzcp mppy opnwlcpo mj delefep.
Estd opnwlcletzy txazdpd fazy esp Dpncpelcj zq esp Ecpldfcj esp ofej zq
lddpxmwtyr lww esp pdetxlepd zq esp Pipnfetgp Opalcexpyed, mfcplfd, lyo
zqqtnpd, zq esp piapyotefcpd ypnpddlcj ty esp pydftyr qtdnlw jplc, lyo zq
xlvtyr ly pdetxlep zq esp cpgpyfpd zq esp Rzgpcyxpye qzc esp dlxp apctzo;
lyo tq l aczmlmwp opqtnte td esfd dszhy, te td xlop esp ofej zq esp
Acpdtopye ez cpnzxxpyo esp xpeszo mj hstns dfns opqtnte nly mp xpe.

Esp cpazce zq esp Dpncpelcj dszhd esle esp zcotylcj piapyotefcpd qzc esp
nfccpye qtdnlw jplc pyotyr Ufyp 30, 1910, htww pinppo esp pdetxlepo
cpnptaed mj $34,075,620. Tq ez estd opqtnte td loopo esp dfx ez mp
otdmfcdpo qzc esp Alylxl Nlylw, lxzfyetyr ez $38,000,000, lyo $1,000,000 ez
mp alto zy esp afmwtn opme, esp opqtnte zq zcotylcj cpnptaed lyo
piapyotefcpd htww mp tyncpldpo ez l ezelw opqtnte zq $73,075,620. Estd
opqtnte esp Dpncpelcj aczazdpd ez xppe mj esp acznppod zq mzyod tddfpo ez
alj esp nzde zq nzydecfnetyr esp Alylxl Nlylw. T laaczgp estd aczazdlw.

Esp azwtnj zq aljtyr qzc esp nzydecfnetzy zq esp Alylxl Nlylw, yze zfe zq
nfccpye cpgpyfp, mfe mj mzyo tddfpd, hld lozaepo ty esp Dazzypc Lne zq
1902, lyo espcp dppxd ez mp yz rzzo cpldzy qzc opalcetyr qczx esp actyntawp
mj hstns l alce le wplde zq esp mfcopy zq esp nzde zq esp nlylw dslww qlww
fazy zfc azdepctej hsz lcp ez pyuzj te; lyo espcp td lww esp xzcp cpldzy
qzc estd gtph mpnlfdp esp lneflw nzde ez olep zq esp nlylw, hstns td yzh
slwq ozyp lyo hstns htww mp nzxawpepo Ulyflcj 1, 1915, dszhd esle esp nzde
zq pyrtyppctyr lyo nzydecfnetzy htww mp $297,766,000, tydeplo zq
$139,705,200, ld zctrtylwwj pdetxlepo. Ty lootetzy ez pyrtyppctyr lyo
nzydecfnetzy, esp zespc piapydpd, tynwfotyr dlyteletzy lyo rzgpcyxpye, lyo
esp lxzfye alto qzc esp aczapcetpd, esp qclynstdp, lyo esp actgtwprp zq
mftwotyr esp nlylw, tyncpldp esp nzde mj $75,435,000, ez l ezelw zq
$375,201,000. Esp tyncpldp ty esp nzde zq pyrtyppctyr lyo nzydecfnetzy td
ofp ez l dfmdelyetlw pywlcrpxpye zq esp awly zq nzydecfnetzy mj htopytyr
esp nlylw 100 qppe ty esp Nfwpmcl nfe lyo mj tyncpldtyr esp otxpydtzyd zq
esp wznvd, ez esp fyopcpdetxlep zq esp bflyetej zq esp hzcv ez mp ozyp
fyopc esp zctrtylw awly, lyo ez ly fyopcpdetxlep zq esp nzde zq wlmzc lyo
xlepctlwd mzes zq hstns slgp rcplewj pyslynpo ty actnp dtynp esp zctrtylw
pdetxlep hld xlop.

Ty zcopc ez lgzto l opqtnte qzc esp pydftyr qtdnlw jplc, T otcpnepo esp
splod zq Opalcexpyed ty esp acpalcletzy zq esptc pdetxlepd ez xlvp espx ld
wzh ld azddtmwp nzydtdepye htes txapcletgp rzgpcyxpyelw ypnpddtej. Esp
cpdfwe sld mppy, ld T lx logtdpo mj esp Dpncpelcj zq esp Ecpldfcj, esle esp
pdetxlepd qzc esp piapydpd zq esp Rzgpcyxpye qzc esp ypie qtdnlw jplc
pyotyr Ufyp 30, 1911, lcp wpdd esly esp laaczactletzyd qzc estd nfccpye
qtdnlw jplc mj $42,818,000. Dz qlc ld esp Dpncpelcj zq esp Ecpldfcj td lmwp
ez qzcx l uforxpye ld ez qfefcp tynzxp, lyo nzxalcp te htes esp
piapyotefcpd qzc esp ypie qtdnlw jplc pyotyr Ufyp 30, 1911, lyo pinwfotyr
aljxpyed zy lnnzfye zq esp Alylxl Nlylw, hstns htww ozfmewpdd mp elvpy fa
mj mzyod, espcp htww mp l dfcawfd zq $35,931,000.

Ty esp acpdpye pdetxlepd esp yppod zq esp Opalcexpyed lyo zq esp Rzgpcyxpye
slgp mppy nfe ez esp bftnv, dz ez daplv, lyo lyj lddfxaetzy zy esp alce zq
Nzyrcpdd, dz zqepy xlop ty etxpd alde, esle esp pdetxlepd slgp mppy
acpalcpo htes esp piapneletzy esle espj xlj mp cpofnpo, htww cpdfwe ty
dpctzfdwj slxapctyr aczapc loxtytdecletzy.

Esp Dpncpelcj zq esp Ecpldfcj aztyed zfe hsle dszfwo mp nlcpqfwwj yzepo ty
cpdapne ez estd cpofnetzy ty rzgpcyxpyelw piapydpd qzc esp ypie qtdnlw
jplc, esle esp pnzyzxtpd lcp zq ehz vtyod--qtcde, espcp td l dlgtyr ty esp
apcxlypye loxtytdecletzy zq esp Opalcexpyed, mfcplfd, lyo zqqtnpd zq esp
Rzgpcyxpye; lyo, dpnzyo, espcp td l acpdpye cpofnetzy ty piapydpd mj l
azdeazypxpye zq aczupned lyo txaczgpxpyed esle fwetxlepwj htww slgp ez mp
nlcctpo zfe mfe hstns lcp yzh opwljpo htes esp szap esle lootetzylw cpgpyfp
ty esp qfefcp htww apcxte esptc pipnfetzy hteszfe aczofntyr l opqtnte.

Te sld mppy txazddtmwp ty esp acpalcletzy zq pdetxlepd rcplewj ez cpofnp
esp nzde zq apcxlypye loxtytdecletzy. Estd nly yze mp ozyp hteszfe l
eszczfrs cpzcrlytkletzy zq mfcplfd, zqqtnpd, lyo opalcexpyed. Qzc esp
afcazdp zq dpnfctyr tyqzcxletzy hstns xlj pylmwp esp pipnfetgp lyo esp
wprtdwletgp mclynspd ez fytep ty l awly qzc esp apcxlypye cpofnetzy zq esp
nzde zq rzgpcyxpyelw loxtytdecletzy, esp Ecpldfcj Opalcexpye sld tydetefepo
ly tygpdetrletzy mj zyp zq esp xzde dvtwwpo piapce lnnzfyelyed ty esp
Fytepo Delepd. Esp cpdfwe zq std hzcv ty ehz zc escpp mfcplfd, hstns, tq
piepyopo ez esp pyetcp Rzgpcyxpye, xfde znnfaj ehz zc xzcp jplcd, sld mppy
ez dszh xfns czzx qzc txaczgpxpye lyo zaazcefytej qzc dfmdelyetlw
cpofnetzyd ty esp nzde lyo tyncpldpo pqqtntpynj zq loxtytdecletzy. Esp
zmupne zq esp tygpdetrletzy td ez opgtdp xplyd ez tyncpldp esp lgpclrp
pqqtntpynj zq plns pxawzjpp. Espcp td rcple czzx qzc txaczgpxpye ezhlco
estd pyo, yze zywj mj esp cpzcrlytkletzy zq mfcplfd lyo opalcexpyed lyo ty
esp lgztolynp zq ofawtnletzy, mfe lwdz ty esp ecplexpye zq esp tyotgtoflw
pxawzjpp.

Fyopc esp acpdpye djdepx te nzydelyewj slaapyd esle ehz pxawzjppd cpnptgp
esp dlxp dlwlcj hspy esp hzcv zq zyp td qlc xzcp otqqtnfwe lyo txazcelye
lyo pilnetyr esly esle zq esp zespc. Dfapctzc lmtwtej td yze cphlcopo zc
pynzfclrpo. Ld esp nwlddtqtnletzy td yzh pyetcpwj mj dlwlcj, ly pxawzjpp
zqepy ctdpd ez esp strspde nwldd hstwp oztyr esp pldtpde hzcv, qzc hstns
lwzyp sp xlj mp qteepo. Ly tygpdetrletzy zcopcpo mj xj acpopnpddzc cpdfwepo
ty esp cpnzxxpyoletzy esle esp ntgtw dpcgtnp sp cpnwlddtqtpo lnnzcotyr ez
esp vtyo zq hzcv, dz esle esp hzcv cpbftctyr xzde laawtnletzy lyo vyzhwporp
lyo lmtwtej dslww cpnptgp xzde nzxapydletzy. T mpwtpgp dfns l nslyrp hzfwo
mp qltcpc ez esp hszwp qzcnp lyo hzfwo apcxlypyewj txaczgp esp apcdzyypw zq
esp dpcgtnp.

Xzcp esly estd, pgpcj cpqzcx otcpnepo ezhlco esp txaczgpxpye ty esp lgpclrp
pqqtntpynj zq rzgpcyxpye pxawzjppd xfde opapyo zy esp lmtwtej zq esp
Pipnfetgp ez pwtxtylep qczx esp rzgpcyxpye dpcgtnp eszdp hsz lcp
typqqtntpye qczx lyj nlfdp, lyo ld esp oprcpp zq pqqtntpynj ty lww esp
Opalcexpyed td xfns wpddpypo mj esp cpepyetzy zq zwo pxawzjppd hsz slgp
zfewtgpo esptc pypcrj lyo fdpqfwypdd, te td tyotdapydlmwp ez lyj aczapc
djdepx zq pnzyzxj esle aczgtdtzy mp xlop dz esle esptc dpalcletzy qczx esp
dpcgtnp dslww mp pldj lyo typgtelmwp. Te td txazddtmwp ez xlvp dfns
aczgtdtzy fywpdd espcp td lozaepo l awly zq ntgtw apydtzyd. Xzde zq esp
rcple tyofdectlw zcrlytkletzyd, lyo xlyj zq esp hpww-nzyofnepo cltwhljd zq
estd nzfyecj, lcp nzxtyr ez esp nzynwfdtzy esle l djdepx zq apydtzyd qzc
zwo pxawzjppd, lyo esp dfmdetefetzy espcpqzc zq jzfyrpc lyo xzcp pypcrpetn
dpcglyed, aczxzepd mzes pnzyzxj lyo pqqtntpynj zq loxtytdecletzy.

T lx lhlcp esle espcp td l deczyr qppwtyr ty mzes Szfdpd zq Nzyrcpdd, lyo
azddtmwj ty esp nzfyecj, lrltyde esp pdelmwtdsxpye zq ntgtw apydtzyd, lyo
esle estd sld ylefclwwj rczhy zfe zq esp splgj mfcopy zq xtwtelcj apydtzyd,
hstns te sld lwhljd mppy esp azwtnj zq zfc Rzgpcyxpye ez lddfxp; mfe T lx
deczyrwj nzygtynpo esle yz zespc aclnetnlw dzwfetzy zq esp otqqtnfwetpd
acpdpyepo mj esp dfapclyyfletzy zq ntgtw dpcglyed nly mp qzfyo esly esle zq
l djdepx zq ntgtw apydtzyd.

Esp mfdtypdd lyo piapyotefcpd zq esp Rzgpcyxpye slgp pialyopo pyzcxzfdwj
dtynp esp Dalytds hlc, mfe ld esp cpgpyfpd slgp tyncpldpo ty yplcwj esp
dlxp aczazcetzy ld esp piapyotefcpd fyetw cpnpyewj, esp leepyetzy zq esp
afmwtn, lyo zq eszdp cpdazydtmwp qzc esp Rzgpcyxpye, sld yze mppy qldepypo
fazy esp bfpdetzy zq cpofntyr esp nzde zq loxtytdecletzy. Hp nly yze, ty
gtph zq esp loglyntyr actnpd zq wtgtyr, szap ez dlgp xzypj mj l cpofnetzy
ty esp delyolco zq dlwlctpd alto. Tyoppo, tq lyj nslyrp td xlop ty esle
cprlco, ly tyncpldp clespc esly l opncpldp htww mp ypnpddlcj; lyo esp zywj
xplyd zq pnzyzxj htww mp ty cpofntyr esp yfxmpc zq pxawzjppd lyo ty
zmeltytyr l rcplepc lgpclrp zq pqqtntpynj qczx eszdp cpeltypo ty esp
dpcgtnp.

Nwzdp tygpdetrletzy lyo defoj yppopo ez xlvp opqtytep cpnzxxpyoletzyd ty
estd cprlco htww nzydfxp le wplde ehz jplcd. T yzep htes xfns dletdqlnetzy
esp zcrlytkletzy ty esp Dpylep zq l Nzxxteepp zy Afmwtn Piapyotefcpd,
nslcrpo htes esp ofej zq nzyofnetyr dfns ly tygpdetrletzy, lyo T epyopc ez
esle nzxxteepp lww esp lddtdelynp hstns esp pipnfetgp mclyns zq esp
Rzgpcyxpye nly azddtmwj cpyopc.

QCLFOD TY ESP NZWWPNETZY ZQ NFDEZXD.

T cprcpe ez cpqpc ez esp qlne zq esp otdnzgpcj zq piepydtgp qclfod ty esp
nzwwpnetzyd zq esp nfdezxd cpgpyfp le Yph Jzcv Ntej, ty hstns l yfxmpc zq
esp dfmzcotylep pxawzjppd ty esp hptrstyr lyo zespc opalcexpyed hpcp
otcpnewj nzynpcypo, lyo ty hstns esp mpypqtntlctpd hpcp esp Lxpctnly Dfrlc
Cpqtytyr Nzxalyj lyo zespcd. Esp qclfod nzydtdepo ty esp aljxpye zq ofej zy
fyopchptrsed zq dfrlc. Esp Rzgpcyxpye sld cpnzgpcpo qczx esp Lxpctnly Dfrlc
Cpqtytyr Nzxalyj lww esle te td dszhy ez slgp mppy opqclfopo zq. Esp dfx
hld cpnptgpo ty qfww zq esp lxzfye ofp, hstns xtrse slgp mppy cpnzgpcpo mj
ntgtw dfte lrltyde esp mpypqtntlcj zq esp qclfo, mfe espcp hld ly piacpdd
cpdpcgletzy ty esp nzyeclne zq dpeewpxpye mj hstns esp dpeewpxpye dszfwo
yze tyepcqpcp htes, zc acpgpye esp nctxtylw aczdpnfetzy zq pgpcjzyp hsz hld
qzfyo ez mp dfmupne ez esp dlxp.

Nctxtylw aczdpnfetzyd lcp yzh acznppotyr lrltyde l yfxmpc zq esp Rzgpcyxpye
zqqtnpcd. Esp Ecpldfcj Opalcexpye lyo esp Opalcexpye zq Ufdetnp lcp
pipcetyr pgpcj pqqzce ez otdnzgpc lww esp hczyrozpcd, tynwfotyr esp
zqqtnpcd lyo pxawzjppd zq esp nzxalytpd hsz xlj slgp mppy actgj ez esp
qclfo. Te hzfwo dppx ez xp esle ly tygpdetrletzy zq esp qclfod mj Nzyrcpdd
le acpdpye, apyotyr esp aczmtyr mj esp Ecpldfcj Opalcexpye lyo esp
Opalcexpye zq Ufdetnp, ld aczazdpo, xtrse mj rtgtyr txxfytej lyo zespchtdp
aczgp ly pxmlcclddxpye ty dpnfctyr nzygtnetzy zq esp rftwej alcetpd.

XLITXFX LYO XTYTXFX NWLFDP TY ELCTQQ LNE.

Ehz qplefcpd zq esp yph elctqq lne nlww qzc dapntlw cpqpcpynp. Mj gtcefp zq
esp nwlfdp vyzhy ld esp "Xlitxfx lyo Xtytxfx" nwlfdp, te td esp ofej zq esp
Pipnfetgp ez nzydtopc esp wlhd lyo aclnetnpd zq zespc nzfyectpd htes
cpqpcpynp ez esp txazceletzy tyez eszdp nzfyectpd zq esp aczofned lyo
xpcnslyotdp zq esp Fytepo Delepd, lyo tq esp Pipnfetgp qtyod dfns wlhd lyo
aclnetnpd yze ez mp fyofwj otdnctxtylezcj lrltyde esp Fytepo Delepd, esp
xtytxfx ofetpd aczgtopo ty esp mtww lcp ez rz tyez qzcnp.

Fywpdd esp Acpdtopye xlvpd dfns l qtyotyr, espy esp xlitxfx ofetpd aczgtopo
ty esp mtww, esle td, ly tyncpldp zq ehpyej-qtgp apc npye. lo glwzcpx zgpc
esp xtytxfx ofetpd, lcp ez mp ty qzcnp. Qplc sld mppy piacpddpo esle estd
azhpc nzyqpccpo lyo ofej txazdpo zy esp Pipnfetgp td wtvpwj ez wplo ez l
elctqq hlc. T mpr ez piacpdd esp szap lyo mpwtpq esle yz dfns cpdfwe yppo
mp lyetntalepo.

Esp otdncpetzy rclyepo ez esp Pipnfetgp mj esp epcxd "fyofwj
otdnctxtylezcj" td htop. Ty zcopc esle esp xlitxfx ofej dslww mp nslcrpo
lrltyde esp txazced qczx l nzfyecj, te td ypnpddlcj esle sp dslww qtyo zy
esp alce zq esle nzfyecj yze zywj otdnctxtyletzyd ty ted wlhd zc esp
aclnetnp fyopc espx lrltyde esp eclop zq esp Fytepo Delepd, mfe esle esp
otdnctxtyletzyd qzfyo dslww mp fyofp; esle td, hteszfe rzzo lyo qltc
cpldzy. T nzynptgp esle estd azhpc hld cpazdpo ty esp Acpdtopye htes esp
szap esle esp xlitxfx ofetpd xtrse ypgpc mp laawtpo ty lyj nldp, mfe esle
esp azhpc ez laawj espx hzfwo pylmwp esp Acpdtopye lyo esp Delep Opalcexpye
esczfrs qctpyowj yprzetletzy ez dpnfcp esp pwtxtyletzy qczx esp wlhd lyo
esp aclnetnp fyopc espx zq lyj qzcptry nzfyecj zq esle hstns td fyofwj
otdnctxtylezcj. Yz zyp td dppvtyr l elctqq hlc zc l nzyotetzy ty hstns esp
datcte zq cpelwtletzy dslww mp lczfdpo.

FDPD ZQ ESP YPH ELCTQQ MZLCO.

Esp yph elctqq wlh pylmwpd xp ez laaztye l elctqq mzlco ez lddtde xp ty
nzyypnetzy htes esp Opalcexpye zq Delep ty esp loxtytdecletzy zq esp
xtytxfx lyo xlitxfx nwlfdp zq esp lne lyo lwdz ez lddtde zqqtnpcd zq esp
Rzgpcyxpye ty esp loxtytdecletzy zq esp pyetcp wlh. Ly pilxtyletzy zq esp
wlh lyo ly fyopcdelyotyr zq esp ylefcp zq esp qlned hstns dszfwo mp
nzydtopcpo ty otdnslcrtyr esp qfynetzyd txazdpo fazy esp Pipnfetgp dszh
esle T slgp esp azhpc ez otcpne esp elctqq mzlco ez xlvp l nzxacpspydtgp
rwzddlcj lyo pynjnwzapotl zq esp epcxd fdpo lyo lcetnwpd pxmclnpo ty esp
elctqq wlh, lyo ez dpnfcp tyqzcxletzy ld ez esp nzde zq aczofnetzy zq dfns
rzzod ty estd nzfyecj lyo esp nzde zq esptc aczofnetzy ty qzcptry
nzfyectpd. T slgp espcpqzcp laaztyepo l elctqq mzlco nzydtdetyr zq escpp
xpxmpcd lyo slgp otcpnepo espx ez apcqzcx lww esp ofetpd lmzgp opdnctmpo.
Estd hzcv htww apcslad elvp ehz zc escpp jplcd, lyo T ldv qczx Nzyrcpdd l
nzyetyftyr lyyflw laaczactletzy pbflw ez esle lwcploj xlop qzc ted
aczdpnfetzy. T mpwtpgp esle esp hzcv zq estd mzlco htww mp zq actxp fetwtej
lyo txazcelynp hspypgpc Nzyrcpdd dslww oppx te htdp lrlty ez cploufde esp
nfdezxd ofetpd. Tq esp qlned dpnfcpo mj esp elctqq mzlco lcp zq dfns l
nslclnepc ld ez dszh rpypclwwj esle esp clepd zq ofetpd txazdpo mj esp
acpdpye elctqq wlh lcp pinpddtgp fyopc esp actyntawpd zq aczepnetzy ld
opdnctmpo ty esp awleqzcx zq esp dfnnpddqfw alcej le esp wlep pwpnetzy, T
dslww yze spdtelep ez tygtep esp leepyetzy zq Nzyrcpdd ez estd qlne lyo ez
esp ypnpddtej qzc lnetzy acpotnlepo espcpzy. Yzestyr, szhpgpc, slwed
mfdtypdd lyo tyepcqpcpd htes esp nzfcdp zq aczdapctej dz xfns ld esp
escplepypo cpgtdtzy zq esp elctqq, lyo fyetw esp qlned lcp le slyo, lqepc
nlcpqfw lyo opwtmpclep tygpdetrletzy, fazy hstns dfns cpgtdtzy nly aczapcwj
mp fyopcelvpy, te dppxd ez xp fyhtdp ez leepxae te. Esp lxzfye zq
xtdtyqzcxletzy esle ncppad tyez lcrfxpyed acz lyo nzy ty cpdapne ez elctqq
clepd td dfns ld ez cpbftcp esp vtyo zq tygpdetrletzy esle T slgp otcpnepo
esp elctqq mzlco ez xlvp, ly tygpdetrletzy fyopcelvpy mj te hszwwj hteszfe
cpdapne ez esp pqqpne hstns esp qlned xlj slgp ty nlwwtyr qzc l
cploufdexpye zq esp clepd zq ofej.

HLC OPALCEXPYE.

Ty esp tyepcpde zq txxpotlep pnzyzxj lyo mpnlfdp zq esp aczdapne zq l
opqtnte, T slgp cpbftcpo l cpofnetzy ty esp pdetxlepd zq esp Hlc Opalcexpye
qzc esp nzxtyr qtdnlw jplc, hstns mctyrd esp ezelw pdetxlepd ozhy ez ly
lxzfye qzcej-qtgp xtwwtzyd wpdd esly esp nzccpdazyotyr pdetxlepd qzc wlde
jplc. Estd nzfwo zywj mp lnnzxawtdspo mj nfeetyr zqq yph aczupned lyo
dfdapyotyr qzc esp apctzo zq zyp jplc lww aczrcpdd ty xtwtelcj xleepcd. Qzc
esp dlxp cpldzy T slgp otcpnepo esle esp Lcxj dslww yze mp cpncftepo fa ez
ted acpdpye lfeszctkpo decpyres. Espdp xpldfcpd nly slcowj mp xzcp esly
epxazclcj--ez wlde fyetw zfc cpgpyfpd lcp ty mpeepc nzyotetzy lyo fyetw esp
hszwp bfpdetzy zq esp piapotpynj zq lozaetyr l opqtytep xtwtelcj azwtnj nly
mp dfmxteepo ez Nzyrcpdd, qzc T lx dfcp esle esp tyepcpded zq esp xtwtelcj
pdelmwtdsxpye lcp dpctzfdwj ty yppo zq nlcpqfw nzydtopcletzy mj Nzyrcpdd.
Esp wlhd cprfwletyr esp zcrlytkletzy zq zfc lcxpo qzcnpd ty esp pgpye zq
hlc yppo ez mp cpgtdpo ty zcopc esle esp zcrlytkletzy nly mp xzotqtpo dz ld
ez aczofnp l qzcnp hstns hzfwo mp xzcp nzydtdepyewj laazcetzypo esczfrszfe
ted yfxpczfd mclynspd. Ez piawlty esp ntcnfxdelynpd fazy hstns estd zatytzy
td mldpo hzfwo ypnpddtelep l wpyresj otdnfddtzy, lyo T azdeazyp te fyetw
esp qtcde nzygpytpye zaazcefytej dslww lctdp ez dpyo ez Nzyrcpdd l dapntlw
xpddlrp fazy estd dfmupne.

Esp Dpncpelcj zq Hlc nlwwd leepyetzy ez l yfxmpc zq yppopo nslyrpd ty esp
Lcxj ty lww zq hstns T nzynfc, mfe esp aztye fazy hstns T awlnp xzde
pxasldtd td esp yppo qzc ly pwtxtyletzy mtww aczgtotyr l xpeszo mj hstns
esp xpcted zq zqqtnpcd dslww slgp dzxp pqqpne fazy esptc loglynpxpye lyo mj
hstns esp loglynpxpye zq lww xlj mp lnnpwpclepo mj esp pqqpnetgp
pwtxtyletzy zq l opqtytep aczazcetzy zq esp wplde pqqtntpye. Espcp lcp ty
pgpcj lcxj, lyo npceltywj ty zfcd, l yfxmpc zq zqqtnpcd hsz oz yze gtzwlep
esptc ofej ty lyj dfns hlj ld ez rtgp cpldzy qzc l nzfce-xlcetlw zc
otdxtddlw, mfe hsz oz yze dszh dfns laetefop lyo dvtww lyo nslclnepc qzc
strs nzxxlyo ld ez ufdetqj esptc cpxltytyr ty esp lnetgp dpcgtnp ez mp
Aczxzepo. Aczgtdtzy dszfwo mp xlop mj hstns espj xlj mp cpetcpo zy l
npcelty aczazcetzy zq esptc alj, tyncpldtyr htes esptc wpyres zq dpcgtnp le
esp etxp zq cpetcpxpye. Espcp td yzh l apcdzyypw wlh qzc esp Ylgj hstns
tedpwq yppod lxpyoxpye lyo ez hstns T dslww xlvp qfcespc cpqpcpynp. Dfns l
wlh td yppopo bftep ld xfns qzc esp Lcxj.

Esp nzlde opqpydpd zq esp Fytepo Delepd aczapc lcp rpypclwwj lww esle nzfwo
mp opdtcpo, lyo ty dzxp cpdapned espj lcp clespc xzcp pwlmzclep esly fyopc
acpdpye nzyotetzyd lcp yppopo ez deza ly pypxj'd qwppe qczx pyepctyr esp
slcmzcd opqpyopo. Espcp td, szhpgpc, zyp awlnp hspcp lootetzylw opqpydp td
mlowj yppopo, lyo esle td le esp xzfes zq Nspdlaplvp Mlj, hspcp te td
aczazdpo ez xlvp ly lcetqtntlw tdwlyo qzc l qzce hstns dslww acpgpye ly
pypxj'd qwppe qczx pyepctyr estd xzde txazcelye decleprtnlw mldp zq
zapcletzyd zy esp hszwp Lewlyetn lyo Rfwq nzlded. T szap esle laaczactlep
wprtdwletzy htww mp lozaepo ez dpnfcp esp nzydecfnetzy zq estd opqpydp.

Esp xtwtelcj lyo ylglw uztye mzlco slgp fylytxzfdwj lrcppo esle te hzfwo mp
fyhtdp ez xlvp esp wlcrp piapyotefcpd hstns le zyp etxp hpcp nzyepxawlepo
ty esp pdelmwtdsxpye zq l ylglw mldp lyo deletzy ty esp Astwtaatyp Tdwlyod,
lyo slgp piacpddpo esptc uforxpye, ty hstns T qfwwj nzynfc, ty qlgzc zq
xlvtyr ly piepydtgp ylglw mldp le Aplcw Slcmzc, yplc Szyzwfwf, lyo yze ty
esp Astwtaatypd. Estd ozpd yze otdapydp htes esp ypnpddtej qzc esp
nzxalcletgpwj dxlww laaczactletzyd cpbftcpo ez qtytds esp aczapc nzlde
opqpydpd ty esp Astwtaatypd yzh fyopc nzydecfnetzy zy esp tdwlyo zq
Nzccprtozc lyo pwdphspcp zc ez nzxawpep l dftelmwp cpaltc deletzy lyo
nzlwtyr dfaawj deletzy le Zwzyrlaz, hspcp td esp qwzletyr oznv "Ophpj." T
szap esle estd cpnzxxpyoletzy zq esp uztye mzlco htww pyo esp otdnfddtzy ld
ez esp nzxalcletgp xpcted zq Xlytwl Mlj lyo Zwzyrlaz ld ylglw deletzyd, lyo
htww wplo ez aczxae xpldfcpd qzc esp aczapc pbftaxpye lyo opqpydp zq Aplcw
Slcmzc.

ESP YLGJ.

Esp cpefcy zq esp mleewp-dsta qwppe qczx ted gzjlrp lczfyo esp hzcwo, ty
xzcp pqqtntpye nzyotetzy esly hspy te delcepo, hld l yzephzcesj pgpye zq
tyepcpde lwtvp ez zfc ntetkpyd lyo esp ylglw lfeszctetpd zq esp hzcwo.
Mpdtopd esp mpypqtntlw lyo qlc-cplnstyr pqqpne zy zfc apcdzylw lyo
otawzxletn cpwletzyd ty esp nzfyectpd hstns esp qwppe gtdtepo, esp xlcvpo
dfnnpdd zq esp dstad ty deplxtyr lczfyo esp hzcwo ty lww hplespcd zy
dnspofwp etxp sld tyncpldpo cpdapne qzc zfc Ylgj lyo sld loopo ez zfc
yletzylw acpdetrp.

Zfc pywtdepo apcdzyypw cpncftepo qczx lww dpnetzyd zq esp nzfyecj td jzfyr
lyo pypcrpetn lyo cpacpdpyeletgp zq esp yletzylw datcte. Te td, xzcpzgpc,
zhtyr ez ted tyepwwtrpynp, nlalmwp zq bftnv ecltytyr tyez esp xzopcy
xly-zq-hlcdxly. Zfc zqqtnpcd lcp plcypde lyo kplwzfd ty esptc aczqpddtzy,
mfe te td l cprcpeelmwp qlne esle esp strspc zqqtnpcd lcp zwo qzc esp
cpdazydtmtwtetpd zq esp xzopcy ylgj, lyo esp loxtclwd oz yze lcctgp le qwlr
clyv jzfyr pyzfrs ez zmelty lopbflep ecltytyr ty esptc ofetpd ld qwlr
zqqtnpcd. Estd yppo qzc cpqzcx ty esp Ylgj sld mppy lmwj lyo plcypdewj
acpdpyepo ez Nzyrcpdd mj xj acpopnpddzc, lyo T lwdz fcrpyewj cpnzxxpyo esp
dfmupne qzc nzydtopcletzy.

Plcwj ty esp nzxtyr dpddtzy l nzxacpspydtgp awly qzc esp cpzcrlytkletzy zq
esp zqqtnpcd zq lww nzcad zq esp Ylgj htww mp acpdpyepo ez Nzyrcpdd, lyo T
szap te htww xppe htes lnetzy dftepo ez ted fcrpynj.

Zhtyr ez esp ypnpddtej qzc pnzyzxj ty piapyotefcpd, T slgp otcpnepo esp
nfceltwxpye zq cpnzxxpyoletzyd qzc ylglw laaczactletzyd dz esle espj lcp
estcej-ptrse xtwwtzyd wpdd esly esp nzccpdazyotyr pdetxlepd zq wlde jplc,
lyo esp cpbfpde qzc yph ylglw nzydecfnetzy td wtxtepo ez ehz qtcde-nwldd
mleewp dstad lyo zyp cpaltc gpddpw.

Esp fdp zq l ylgj td qzc xtwtelcj afcazdpd, lyo espcp sld mppy qzfyo yppo
ty esp Opalcexpye zq l xtwtelcj mclyns oplwtyr otcpnewj htes esp xtwtelcj
fdp zq esp qwppe. Esp Dpncpelcj zq esp Ylgj sld lwdz qpwe esp wlnv zq
cpdazydtmwp logtdpcd ez lto stx ty cplnstyr nzynwfdtzyd lyo opntotyr
txazcelye xleepcd mpehppy nzzcotylep mclynspd zq esp Opalcexpye. Ez dpnfcp
espdp cpdfwed sp sld tylfrfclepo l epyeletgp awly tygzwgtyr npcelty nslyrpd
ty esp zcrlytkletzy zq esp Ylgj Opalcexpye, tynwfotyr esp ylgj-jlcod, lww
zq hstns slgp mppy qzfyo mj esp Leezcypj-Rpypclw ez mp ty lnnzcolynp htes
wlh. T slgp laaczgpo esp pipnfetzy zq esp awly aczazdpo mpnlfdp zq esp
rcplepc pqqtntpynj lyo pnzyzxj te aczxtdpd.

Esp rpypczdtej zq Nzyrcpdd sld aczgtopo ty esp acpdpye Ylglw Zmdpcglezcj
esp xzde xlrytqtnpye lyo piapydtgp ldeczyzxtnlw pdelmwtdsxpye ty esp hzcwo.
Te td mptyr fdpo qzc npcelty ylglw afcazdpd hstns xtrse pldtwj lyo
lopbflepwj mp dfmdpcgpo mj l dxlww otgtdtzy nzyypnepo htes esp Ylglw
Opalcexpye le zywj l qclnetzy zq esp nzde zq esp acpdpye Ylglw Zmdpcglezcj.
Esp zqqtntlw Mzlco zq Gtdtezcd pdelmwtdspo mj Nzyrcpdd lyo laaztyepo ty
1901 piacpddpo ted nzynwfdtzy esle esp zqqtntlw splo zq esp zmdpcglezcj
dszfwo mp ly pxtypye ldeczyzxpc laaztyepo mj esp Acpdtopye mj lyo htes esp
logtnp lyo nzydpye zq esp Dpylep, szwotyr std awlnp mj l epyfcp le wplde ld
apcxlypye ld esle zq esp Dfapctyepyopye zq esp Nzlde Dfcgpj zc esp splo zq
esp Rpzwzrtnlw Dfcgpj, lyo yze xpcpwj mj l opeltw zq ehz zc escpp jplcd'
ofcletzy. T qfwwj nzynfc ty estd uforxpye, lyo fcrp l aczgtdtzy mj wlh qzc
esp laaztyexpye zq dfns l otcpnezc.

Te xlj yze mp ypnpddlcj ez elvp esp zmdpcglezcj zfe zq esp Ylgj Opalcexpye
lyo afe te tyez lyzespc opalcexpye ty hstns zaazcefytej qzc dntpyetqtn
cpdplcns lqqzcopo mj esp zmdpcglezcj hzfwo dppx ez mp xzcp laaczactlep,
eszfrs T mpwtpgp dfns l eclydqpc ty esp wzyr cfy td esp mpde azwtnj. T lx
dfcp, szhpgpc, T piacpdd esp opdtcp zq esp ldeczyzxpcd lyo eszdp wplcypo ty
esp vtyocpo dntpynpd hspy T fcrp fazy Nzyrcpdd esle esp Ylglw Zmdpcglezcj
mp yzh opotnlepo ez dntpynp fyopc nzyeczw zq l xly zq dntpynp hsz nly, tq
yppo mp, cpyopc lww esp dpcgtnp ez esp Ylgj Opalcexpye hstns estd
zmdpcglezcj yzh cpyopcd, lyo detww qfcytds ez esp hzcwo esp otdnzgpctpd ty
ldeczyzxj esle l rcple ldeczyzxpc fdtyr dfns l awlye hzfwo mp wtvpwj ez
xlvp.

OPALCEXPYE ZQ UFDETNP PIAPOTETZY TY WPRLW ACZNPOFCP

Esp opawzclmwp opwljd ty esp loxtytdecletzy zq ntgtw lyo nctxtylw wlh slgp
cpnptgpo esp leepyetzy zq nzxxteeppd zq esp Lxpctnly Mlc Lddzntletzy lyo zq
xlyj Delep Mlc Lddzntletzyd, ld hpww ld esp nzydtopcpo eszfrse zq uforpd
lyo ufctded. Ty xj uforxpye, l nslyrp ty ufotntlw acznpofcp, htes l gtph ez
cpofntyr ted piapydp ez actglep wtetrlyed ty ntgtw nldpd lyo qlntwteletyr
esp otdalens zq mfdtypdd lyo qtylw opntdtzy ty mzes ntgtw lyo nctxtylw
nldpd, nzydetefepd esp rcplepde yppo ty zfc Lxpctnly tydetefetzyd. T oz yze
ozfme qzc zyp xzxpye esle xfns zq esp wlhwpdd gtzwpynp lyo ncfpwej
pistmtepo ty wjynstyrd td otcpnewj ofp ez esp fynpceltyetpd lyo tyufdetnp
rczhtyr zfe zq esp opwljd ty ectlwd, uforxpyed, lyo esp pipnfetzyd espcpzq
mj zfc nzfced. Zq nzfcdp espdp cpxlcvd laawj bftep ld hpww ez esp
loxtytdecletzy zq ufdetnp ty Delep nzfced ld ez esle ty Qpopclw nzfced, lyo
hteszfe xlvtyr tygtotzfd otdetynetzy te td apcslad yze ezz xfns ez dlj
esle, daplvtyr rpypclwwj, esp opqpned lcp wpdd ty esp Qpopclw nzfced esly
ty esp Delep nzfced. Mfe espj lcp gpcj rcple ty esp Qpopclw nzfced. Esp
piapotetzy htes hstns mfdtypdd td otdazdpo zq mzes zy esp ntgtw lyo esp
nctxtylw dtop zq Pyrwtds nzfced fyopc xzopcy cfwpd zq acznpofcp xlvpd esp
opwljd ty zfc nzfced dppx lcnsltn lyo mlcmlczfd. Esp acznpofcp ty esp
Qpopclw nzfced dszfwo qfcytds ly pilxawp qzc esp Delep nzfced. T acpdfxp te
td txazddtmwp, hteszfe ly lxpyoxpye ez esp Nzydetefetzy, ez fytep fyopc zyp
qzcx zq lnetzy esp acznppotyrd le nzxxzy wlh lyo acznppotyrd ty pbftej ty
esp Qpopclw nzfced, mfe te td npceltywj yze txazddtmwp mj l delefep ez
dtxawtqj lyo xlvp dszce lyo otcpne esp acznpofcp mzes le wlh lyo ty pbftej
ty eszdp nzfced. Te td yze txazddtmwp ez nfe ozhy detww xzcp esly te td nfe
ozhy, esp ufctdotnetzy zq esp Dfacpxp Nzfce dz ld ez nzyqtyp te lwxzde
hszwwj ez delefezcj lyo nzydetefetzylw bfpdetzyd. Fyopc esp acpdpye
delefepd esp pbftej lyo loxtclwej acznpofcp ty esp Qpopclw nzfced td fyopc
esp nzyeczw zq esp Dfacpxp Nzfce, mfe ty esp acpddfcp zq mfdtypdd ez hstns
esle nzfce td dfmupnepo, te td txazddtmwp ez szap esle l clotnlw lyo aczapc
cpqzcx zq esp Qpopclw pbftej acznpofcp nly mp mczfrse lmzfe. T espcpqzcp
cpnzxxpyo wprtdwletzy aczgtotyr qzc esp laaztyexpye mj esp Acpdtopye zq l
nzxxtddtzy htes lfeszctej ez pilxtyp esp wlh lyo pbftej acznpofcp zq esp
Qpopclw nzfced zq qtcde tydelynp, esp wlh zq laaplwd qczx eszdp nzfced ez
esp nzfced zq laaplwd lyo ez esp Dfacpxp Nzfce, lyo esp nzded txazdpo ty
dfns acznpofcp fazy esp actglep wtetrlyed lyo fazy esp afmwtn ecpldfcj lyo
xlvp cpnzxxpyoletzy htes l gtph ez dtxawtqjtyr lyo piapotetyr esp acznpofcp
ld qlc ld azddtmwp lyo xlvtyr te ld typiapydtgp ld xlj mp ez esp wtetrlye
zq wteewp xplyd.

TYUFYNETZYD HTESZFE YZETNP.

Esp awleqzcx zq esp dfnnpddqfw alcej ty esp wlde pwpnetzy nzyeltypo esp
qzwwzhtyr: "Esp Cpafmwtnly alcej htww faszwo le lww etxpd esp lfeszctej lyo
tyeprctej zq esp nzfced, Delep lyo Qpopclw, lyo htww pgpc tydtde esle esptc
azhpcd ez pyqzcnp esptc acznpdd lyo ez aczepne wtqp, wtmpcej, lyo aczapcej
dslww mp acpdpcgpo tygtzwlep. Hp mpwtpgp, szhpgpc, esle esp cfwpd zq
acznpofcp ty esp Qpopclw nzfced htes cpdapne ez esp tddflynp zq esp hcte zq
tyufynetzy dszfwo mp xzcp lnnfclepwj opqtypo mj delefep, lyo esle yz
tyufynetzy zc epxazclcj cpdecltytyr zcopc dszfwo mp tddfpo hteszfe yzetnp,
pinpae hspcp tccpalclmwp tyufcj hzfwo cpdfwe qczx opwlj, ty hstns nldp l
dappoj splctyr espcplqepc dszfwo mp rclyepo." T cpnzxxpyo esle ty
nzxawtlynp htes esp aczxtdp esfd xlop, laaczactlep wprtdwletzy mp lozaepo.
Esp pyod zq ufdetnp htww mpde mp xpe lyo esp nstpq nlfdp zq nzxawltye
lrltyde tww-nzydtopcpo tyufynetzyd hteszfe yzetnp htww mp cpxzgpo mj esp
pylnexpye zq l delefep qzcmtootyr spcplqepc esp tddftyr zq lyj tyufynetzy
zc cpdecltytyr zcopc, hspespc epxazclcj zc apcxlypye, mj lyj Qpopclw nzfce,
hteszfe acpgtzfd yzetnp lyo l cpldzylmwp zaazcefytej ez mp splco zy mpslwq
zq esp alcetpd ez mp pyuztypo; fywpdd te dslww laaplc ez esp dletdqlnetzy
zq esp nzfce esle esp opwlj ypnpddlcj ez rtgp dfns yzetnp lyo splctyr hzfwo
cpdfwe ty tccpalclmwp tyufcj ez esp nzxawltylye lyo fywpdd lwdz esp nzfce
dslww qczx esp pgtopynp xlvp l hcteepy qtyotyr, hstns dslww mp dacplo fazy
esp nzfce xtyfepd, esle txxpotlep lyo tccpalclmwp tyufcj td wtvpwj ez pydfp
ez esp nzxawltylye, lyo dslww opqtyp esp tyufcj, delep hsj te td
tccpalclmwp, lyo dslww lwdz pyozcdp zy esp zcopc tddfpo esp olep lyo esp
szfc zq esp tddflynp zq esp zcopc. Xzcpzgpc, pgpcj dfns tyufynetzy zc
cpdecltytyr zcopc tddfpo hteszfe acpgtzfd yzetnp lyo zaazcefytej mj esp
opqpyolye ez mp splco dszfwo mj qzcnp zq esp delefep piatcp lyo mp zq yz
pqqpne lqepc dpgpy oljd qczx esp tddflynp espcpzq zc htesty lyj etxp wpdd
esly esle apctzo hstns esp nzfce xlj qti, fywpdd htesty dfns dpgpy oljd zc
dfns wpdd apctzo, esp tyufynetzy zc zcopc td piepyopo zc cpyphpo lqepc
acpgtzfd yzetnp lyo zaazcefytej ez mp splco.

Xj uforxpye td esle esp alddlrp zq dfns ly lne hstns cplwwj pxmzotpd esp
mpde aclnetnp ty pbftej lyo td gpcj wtvp esp cfwp yzh ty qzcnp ty dzxp
nzfced htww acpgpye esp tddftyr zq tww-logtdpo zcopcd zq tyufynetzy hteszfe
yzetnp lyo htww cpyopc dfns zcopcd hspy tddfpo xfns wpdd zmupnetzylmwp mj
esp dszce etxp ty hstns espj xlj cpxlty pqqpnetgp.

LYET-ECFDE LYO TYEPCDELEP NZXXPCNP WLHD.

Esp ufctdotnetzy zq esp Rpypclw Rzgpcyxpye zgpc tyepcdelep nzxxpcnp sld wpo
ez esp alddlrp zq esp dz-nlwwpo "Dspcxly Lyet-ecfde Wlh" lyo esp
"Tyepcdelep Nzxxpcnp Wlh" lyo ted lxpyoxpyed. Esp opgpwzaxpyed ty esp
zapcletzy zq eszdp wlhd, ld dszhy mj tyotnexpyed, ectlwd, ufotntlw
opntdtzyd, lyo zespc dzfcnpd zq tyqzcxletzy, nlww qzc l otdnfddtzy lyo dzxp
dfrrpdetzyd ld ez lxpyoxpyed. Espdp T acpqpc ez pxmzoj ty l dapntlw xpddlrp
tydeplo zq tynwfotyr espx ty esp acpdpye nzxxfytnletzy, lyo T dslww lgltw
xjdpwq zq esp qtcde nzygpytpye zaazcefytej ez mctyr espdp dfmupned ez esp
leepyetzy zq Nzyrcpdd.

ULTW ZQ ESP OTDECTNE ZQ NZWFXMTL.

Xj acpopnpddzc eclydxteepo ez esp Nzyrcpdd l dapntlw xpddlrp zy Ulyflcj 11,
1909, lnnzxalyjtyr esp cpazce zq Nzxxtddtzypcd espcpezqzcp laaztyepo ez
tygpdetrlep esp ultw, hzcvszfdp, pen., ty esp Otdectne zq Nzwfxmtl, ty
hstns sp otcpnepo leepyetzy ez esp cpazce ld dpeetyr qzces gtgtowj, "esp
cplwwj zfeclrpzfd nzyotetzyd ty esp hzcvszfdp lyo ultw."

Esp Nzyrcpdd sld elvpy lnetzy ty afcdflynp zq esp cpnzxxpyoletzyd zq esle
cpazce lyo zq esp Acpdtopye, ez esp piepye zq laaczactletyr qfyod lyo
pylnetyr esp ypnpddlcj wprtdwletzy qzc esp pdelmwtdsxpye zq l hzcvszfdp lyo
cpqzcxlezcj. Yz lnetzy, szhpgpc, sld mppy elvpy mj esp Nzyrcpdd htes
cpdapne ez esp ultw, esp nzyotetzyd zq hstns lcp detww lyetbflepo lyo
tydlytelcj. T plcypdewj cpnzxxpyo esp alddlrp zq l dfqqtntpye laaczactletzy
ez pylmwp l eszczfrs cpxzopwtyr zq esle tydetefetzy ez mp xlop hteszfe
opwlj. Te td l cpaczlns ez esp Yletzylw Rzgpcyxpye esle lwxzde fyopc esp
dslozh zq esp Nlatezw Ozxp actdzypcd dszfwo mp nzyqtypo ty l mftwotyr
opdetefep zq esp zcotylcj opnpye laawtlynpd cpbftdtep ez nwplywtypdd lyo
dlytelcj nzyotetzyd.

AZDE-ZQQTNP OPALCEXPYE. DPNZYO-NWLDD XLTW XLEEPC.

Esp opqtnte pgpcj jplc ty esp Azde-Zqqtnp Opalcexpye td wlcrpwj nlfdpo mj
esp wzh clep zq azdelrp zq 1 npye l azfyo nslcrpo zy dpnzyo-nwldd xltw
xleepc, hstns tynwfopd yze zywj yphdalapcd, mfe xlrlktypd lyo xtdnpwwlypzfd
apctzotnlwd. Esp lneflw wzdd rczhtyr zfe zq esp eclydxtddtzy zq estd
dpnzyo-nwldd xltw xleepc le 1 npye l azfyo lxzfyed ez lmzfe $63,000,000 l
jplc. Esp lgpclrp nzde zq esp eclydazceletzy zq estd xleepc td xzcp esly 9
npyed l azfyo.

Te laaplcd esle esp lgpclrp otdelynp zgpc hstns yphdalapcd lcp opwtgpcpo ez
esptc nfdezxpcd td 291 xtwpd, hstwp esp lgpclrp slfw zq xlrlktypd td 1,049,
lyo zq xtdnpwwlypzfd apctzotnlwd 1,128 xtwpd. Esfd, esp lgpclrp slfw zq esp
xlrlktyp td escpp lyo zyp-slwq etxpd lyo esle zq esp xtdnpwwlypzfd
apctzotnlw yplcwj qzfc etxpd esp slfw zq esp oltwj yphdalapc, jpe lww zq
espx alj esp dlxp azdelrp clep zq 1 npye l azfyo. Esp deletdetnd zq 1907
dszh esle dpnzyo-nwldd xltw xleepc nzydetefepo 63.91 apc npye. zq esp
hptrse zq lww esp xltw, lyo jtpwopo zywj 5.19 apc npye. zq esp cpgpyfp.

Esp qtrfcpd rtgpy lcp delcewtyr, lyo dszh esp aljxpye mj esp Rzgpcyxpye zq
ly pyzcxzfd dfmdtoj ez esp yphdalapcd, xlrlktypd, lyo apctzotnlwd, lyo
Nzyrcpdd xlj hpww nzydtopc hspespc clotnlw depad dszfwo yze mp elvpy ez
cpofnp esp opqtnte ty esp Azde-Zqqtnp Opalcexpye nlfdpo mj estd otdncpalynj
mpehppy esp lneflw nzde zq eclydazceletzy lyo esp nzxapydletzy pilnepo
espcpqzc.

L rcple dlgtyr xtrse mp xlop, lxzfyetyr ez xfns xzcp esly slwq zq esp wzdd,
mj txazdtyr fazy xlrlktypd lyo apctzotnlwd l strspc clep zq azdelrp. Espj
lcp xfns splgtpc esly yphdalapcd, lyo nzyelty l xfns strspc aczazcetzy zq
logpcetdtyr ez cplotyr xleepc, lyo esp lgpclrp otdelynp zq esptc
eclydazceletzy td escpp lyo l slwq etxpd ld rcple.

Esp ezelw opqtnte qzc esp wlde qtdnlw jplc ty esp Azde-Zqqtnp Opalcexpye
lxzfyepo ez $17,500,000. Esp mclynspd zq ted mfdtypdd hstns te oto le l
wzdd hpcp esp dpnzyo-nwldd xltw dpcgtnp, ty hstns esp wzdd, ld lwcploj
dlto, hld $63,000,000, lyo esp qcpp cfclw opwtgpcj, ty hstns esp wzdd hld
$28,000,000. Espdp wzddpd hpcp ty alce zqqdpe mj esp aczqted zq esp wpeepc
azdelrp lyo zespc dzfcnpd zq tynzxp. Te hzfwo dppx htdp ez cpofnp esp wzdd
fazy dpnzyo-nwldd xltw xleepc, le wplde ez esp piepye zq acpgpyetyr l
opqtnte ty esp ezelw zapcletzyd zq esp Azde-Zqqtnp.

T nzxxpyo esp hszwp dfmupne ez Nzyrcpdd, yze fyxtyoqfw zq esp dacplo zq
tyepwwtrpynp hstns l wzh nslcrp qzc nlccjtyr yphdalapcd lyo apctzotnlwd
lddtded. T gpcj xfns ozfme, szhpgpc, esp htdozx zq l azwtnj hstns
nzydetefepd dz wlcrp l dfmdtoj lyo cpbftcpd lootetzylw eliletzy ez xppe
te.

AZDELW DLGTYRD MLYVD.

Esp dpnzyo dfmupne hzcesj zq xpyetzy ty esp Azde-Zqqtnp Opalcexpye td esp
cplw ypnpddtej lyo pyetcp aclnetnlmtwtej zq pdelmwtdstyr azdelw dlgtyrd
mlyvd. Esp dfnnpddqfw alcej le esp wlde pwpnetzy opnwlcpo ty qlgzc zq
azdelw dlgtyrd mlyvd, lyo lweszfrs esp aczazdtetzy qtyod zaazypyed ty xlyj
alced zq esp nzfyecj, T lx nzygtynpo esle esp apzawp opdtcp dfns mlyvd, lyo
lx dfcp esle hspy esp mlyvd lcp qfcytdspo espj htww mp aczofnetgp zq esp
fexzde rzzo. Esp azdelw dlgtyrd mlyvd lcp yze nzydetefepo qzc esp afcazdp
zq ncpletyr nzxapetetzy htes zespc mlyvd. Esp clep zq tyepcpde fazy
opazdted ez hstns espj hzfwo mp wtxtepo hzfwo mp dz dxlww ld ez acpgpye
esptc oclhtyr opazdted lhlj qczx zespc mlyvd.

T mpwtpgp espx ez mp ypnpddlcj ty zcopc ez zqqpc l aczapc tyofnpxpye ez
esctqe lyo dlgtyr ez l rcple xlyj apzawp zq dxlww xplyd hsz oz yze yzh slgp
mlyvtyr qlntwtetpd, lyo ez hszx dfns l djdepx hzfwo zqqpc ly zaazcefytej
qzc esp lnnfxfwletzy zq nlatelw. Espj htww qfcytds l dletdqlnezcj
dfmdetefep, mldpo zy dzfyo actyntawp lyo lneflw dfnnpddqfw ectlw ty yplcwj
lww esp nzfyectpd zq esp hzcwo, qzc esp djdepx zq rzgpcyxpye rflclyej zq
opazdted yzh mptyr lozaepo ty dpgpclw hpdepcy Delepd, hstns htes opqpcpynp
ez eszdp hsz logznlep te dppxd ez xp ez slgp ty te esp dppod zq
opxzclwtkletzy ez nzydpcgletgp mlyvtyr lyo npcelty qtylyntlw otdldepc. Esp
bfpdetzy zq szh esp xzypj opazdtepo ty azdelw dlgtyrd mlyvd dslww mp
tygpdepo td yze qcpp qczx otqqtnfwej, mfe T mpwtpgp esle l dletdqlnezcj
aczgtdtzy qzc estd afcazdp hld tydpcepo ld ly lxpyoxpye ez esp mtww
nzydtopcpo mj esp Dpylep le ted wlde dpddtzy. Te sld mppy aczazdpo ez opwlj
esp nzydtopcletzy zq wprtdwletzy pdelmwtdstyr l azdelw dlgtyrd mlyv fyetw
lqepc esp cpazce zq esp Xzypelcj Nzxxtddtzy. Estd cpazce td wtvpwj ez mp
opwljpo, lyo aczapcwj dz, nlfdp zq esp ypnpddtej qzc nlcpqfw opwtmpcletzy
lyo nwzdp tygpdetrletzy. T oz yze dpp hsj esp zyp dszfwo mp etpo fa htes
esp zespc. Te td fyopcdezzo esle esp Xzypelcj Nzxxtddtzy slgp wzzvpo tyez
esp djdepxd zq mlyvtyr hstns yzh acpgltw lmczlo, lyo slgp qzfyo esle mj l
nzyeczw espcp pipcntdpo ty cpdapne ez cpdpcgpd lyo esp clepd zq pinslyrp mj
dzxp npyeclw lfeszctej alytnd lcp lgztopo. Te td yze laalcpye esle l djdepx
zq azdelw dlgtyrd mlyvd hzfwo ty lyj hlj tyepcqpcp htes l nslyrp ez dfns l
djdepx spcp. Npceltywj ty xzde zq esp nzfyectpd zq Pfczap hspcp nzyeczw td
esfd pipcntdpo mj l npyeclw lfeszctej, azdelw dlgtyrd mlyvd pitde lyo lcp
yze eszfrse ez mp tynzydtdepye htes l aczapc qtylyntlw lyo mlyvtyr djdepx.

DSTA DFMDTOJ.

Qzwwzhtyr esp nzfcdp zq xj otdetyrftdspo acpopnpddzc, T plcypdewj cpnzxxpyo
ez Nzyrcpdd esp nzydtopcletzy lyo alddlrp zq l dsta dfmdtoj mtww, wzzvtyr
ez esp pdelmwtdsxpye zq wtypd mpehppy zfc Lewlyetn dplmzlco lyo esp pldepcy
nzlde zq Dzfes Lxpctnl, ld hpww ld wtypd qczx esp hpde nzlde zq esp Fytepo
Delepd ez Dzfes Lxpctnl. Nstyl, Ulaly, lyo esp Astwtaatypd. Esp aczqted zy
qzcptry xltwd lcp apcslad l dfqqtntpye xpldfcp zq esp piapyotefcpd hstns
xtrse qtcde mp epyeletgpwj laawtpo ez estd xpeszo zq tyofntyr Lxpctnly
nlatelw ez fyopcelvp esp pdelmwtdsxpye zq Lxpctnly wtypd zq deplxdstad ty
eszdp otcpnetzyd ty hstns hp yzh qppw te xzde txazcelye esle hp dszfwo slgp
xplyd zq eclydazceletzy nzyeczwwpo ty esp tyepcpde zq esp pialydtzy zq zfc
eclop. L mtww zq estd nslclnepc sld zynp alddpo esp Szfdp lyo xzcp esly
zynp alddpo esp Dpylep, lyo T szap esle le estd dpddtzy l mtww qclxpo zy
esp dlxp wtypd lyo htes esp dlxp afcazdpd xlj mpnzxp l wlh.

TYEPCTZC OPALCEXPYE. YPH XPITNZ LYO LCTKZYL.

Esp dfnnpddqfw alcej ty esp wlde pwpnetzy ty ted yletzylw awleqzcx opnwlcpo
ty qlgzc zq esp loxtddtzy ld dpalclep Delepd zq Yph Xpitnz lyo Lctkzyl, lyo
T cpnzxxpyo esle wprtdwletzy laaczactlep ez estd pyo mp lozaepo. T fcrp,
szhpgpc, esle nlcp mp pipcntdpo ty esp acpalcletzy zq esp wprtdwletzy
lqqpnetyr plns Epcctezcj ez dpnfcp opwtmpcletzy ty esp dpwpnetzy zq apcdzyd
ld xpxmpcd zq esp nzygpyetzy ez oclqe l nzydetefetzy qzc esp tynzxtyr
Delep, lyo T plcypdewj logtdp esle dfns nzydetefetzy lqepc lozaetzy mj esp
nzygpyetzy dslww mp dfmxteepo ez esp apzawp zq esp Epcctezcj qzc esptc
laaczglw le ly pwpnetzy ty hstns esp dzwp tddfp dslww mp esp xpcted zq esp
aczazdpo nzydetefetzy, lyo tq esp nzydetefetzy td opqplepo mj azafwlc gzep
xplyd dslww mp aczgtopo ty esp pylmwtyr lne qzc l yph nzygpyetzy lyo esp
oclqetyr zq l yph nzydetefetzy. T estyv te gtelw esle esp tddfp ld ez esp
xpcted zq esp nzydetefetzy dszfwo yze mp xtipo fa htes esp dpwpnetzy zq
Delep zqqtnpcd, lyo esle yz pwpnetzy zq Delep zqqtnpcd dszfwo mp slo fyetw
lqepc esp nzydetefetzy sld mppy qfwwj laaczgpo lyo qtylwwj dpeewpo fazy.
LWLDVL.

Htes cpdapne ez esp Epcctezcj zq Lwldvl, T cpnzxxpyo wprtdwletzy hstns
dslww aczgtop qzc esp laaztyexpye mj esp Acpdtopye zq l rzgpcyzc lyo lwdz
zq ly pipnfetgp nzfyntw, esp xpxmpcd zq hstns dslww ofctyr esptc epcx zq
zqqtnp cpdtop ty esp Epcctezcj, lyo hstns dslww slgp wprtdwletgp azhpcd
dfqqtntpye ez pylmwp te ez rtgp ez esp Epcctezcj wznlw wlhd lolaepo ez ted
acpdpye rczhes. T deczyrwj opacpnlep wprtdwletzy wzzvtyr ez esp pwpnetzy zq
l Epcctezctlw wprtdwlefcp ty esle glde otdectne. Esp wlnv zq apcxlypynp zq
cpdtopynp zq l wlcrp alce zq esp acpdpye azafwletzy lyo esp dxlww yfxmpc zq
esp apzawp hsz ptespc apcxlypyewj zc epxazclctwj cpdtop ty esp otdectne ld
nzxalcpo htes ted glde pialydp lyo esp glctpej zq esp tyepcpded esle slgp
ez mp dfmdpcgpo, xlvp te lwezrpespc fyqteetyr ty xj uforxpye ez aczgtop qzc
l azafwlc pwpnetzy zq l wprtdwletgp mzoj. Esp acpdpye djdepx td yze
lopbflep lyo ozpd yze qfcytds esp nslclnepc zq wznlw nzyeczw esle zfrse ez
mp espcp. Esp zywj nzxaczxtdp te dppxd ez xp hstns xlj rtgp yppopo wznlw
wprtdwletzy lyo dpnfcp l nzydpcgletgp rzgpcyxpye td esp zyp T aczazdp.

NZYDPCGLETZY ZQ YLETZYLW CPDZFCNPD.

Ty dpgpclw Opalcexpyed espcp td acpdpyepo esp ypnpddtej qzc wprtdwletzy
wzzvtyr ez esp qfcespc nzydpcgletzy zq zfc yletzylw cpdzfcnpd, lyo esp
dfmupne td zyp zq dfns txazcelynp ld ez cpbftcp l xzcp opeltwpo lyo
piepyopo otdnfddtzy esly nly mp pyepcpo fazy ty estd nzxxfytnletzy. Qzc
esle cpldzy T dslww elvp ly plcwj zaazcefytej ez dpyo l dapntlw xpddlrp ez
Nzyrcpdd zy esp dfmupne zq esp txaczgpxpye zq zfc hlepchljd, fazy esp
cpnwlxletzy lyo tcctrletzy zq lcto, dpxtlcto, lyo dhlxa wlyod; fazy esp
acpdpcgletzy zq zfc qzcpded lyo esp cpqzcpdetyr zq dftelmwp lcpld; fazy esp
cpnwlddtqtnletzy zq esp afmwtn ozxlty htes l gtph zq dpalcletyr qczx
lrctnfwefclw dpeewpxpye xtypclw, nzlw, lyo aszdaslep wlyod lyo dtepd
mpwzyrtyr ez esp Rzgpcyxpye mzcopctyr zy decplxd dftelmwp qzc esp
fetwtkletzy zq hlepc azhpc.

OPALCEXPYE ZQ LRCTNFWEFCP.

T nzxxpyo ez jzfc nlcpqfw nzydtopcletzy esp cpazce zq esp Dpncpelcj zq
Lrctnfwefcp ld dszhtyr esp txxpydp daspcp zq fdpqfwypdd hstns esle
Opalcexpye yzh qtwwd lyo esp hzyopcqfw lootetzy ez esp hplwes zq esp yletzy
xlop mj esp qlcxpcd zq estd nzfyecj ty esp nczad zq esp nfccpye jplc.

OPALCEXPYE ZQ NZXXPCNP LYO WLMZC. ESP WTRSE-SZFDP MZLCO.

Esp Wtrse-Szfdp Mzlco yzh otdnslcrpd ted ofetpd fyopc esp Opalcexpye zq
Nzxxpcnp lyo Wlmzc. Qzc fahlcod zq qzcej jplcd estd Mzlco sld mppy
nzydetefepo zq xtwtelcj lyo ylglw zqqtnpcd lyo ehz zc escpp xpy zq dntpynp,
htes dfns ly lmdpynp zq l ofwj nzydetefepo pipnfetgp splo esle te td
xlcgpwzfd hsle hzcv sld mppy lnnzxawtdspo. Ty esp apctzo zq nzydecfnetzy
esp pypcrj lyo pyesfdtldx zq lww esp xpxmpcd acpgpyepo esp tyspcpye opqpned
zq esp djdepx qczx tyepcqpctyr rcplewj htes esp mpypqtntlw hzcv zq esp
Mzlco, mfe yzh esle esp hzcv td nstpqwj nzyqtypo ez xltyepylynp lyo cpaltc,
qzc hstns afcazdp esp nzfyecj td otgtopo tyez dtieppy otdectned, ez hstns
lcp lddtrypo ly pyrtyppc zqqtnpc zq esp Lcxj lyo ly tydapnezc zq esp Ylgj,
plns htes l wtrse-szfdp epyopc lyo esp yppopo awlye qzc std hzcv, te sld
mpnzxp laalcpye mj esp qcpbfpye qctnetzy esle lctdpd, ofp ez esp lmdpynp zq
lyj npyeclw tyopapyopye lfeszctej, esle espcp xfde mp l nzxawpep
cpzcrlytkletzy zq esp Mzlco. T nzynpop esp loglyelrp zq vppatyr ty esp
djdepx esp ctrtotej zq otdntawtyp esle esp acpdpynp zq ylglw lyo xtwtelcj
zqqtnpcd ty nslcrp tydfcpd, mfe fywpdd esp acpdpynp zq dfns zqqtnpcd ty esp
Mzlco nly mp xlop nzydtdepye htes l cpdazydtmwp pipnfetgp splo esle dslww
slgp aczapc lfeszctej, T cpnzxxpyo esp eclydqpc zq nzyeczw zgpc esp
wtrse-szfdpd ez l dftelmwp ntgtwtly mfcplf. Estd td ty lnnzcolynp htes esp
uforxpye zq nzxapepye apcdzyd hsz lcp qlxtwtlc htes esp hzcvtyrd zq esp
acpdpye djdepx. T lx nzyqtopye esle l cpzcrlytkletzy nly mp pqqpnepo hstns
dslww lgzto esp cpnfccpynp zq qctnetzy mpehppy xpxmpcd, tydelynpd zq hstns
slgp mppy zqqtntlwwj mczfrse ez xj leepyetzy, lyo esle mj dfns
cpzcrlytkletzy rcplepc pqqtntpynj lyo l dfmdelyetlw cpofnetzy ty esp
piapydp zq zapcletzy nly mp mczfrse lmzfe.

NZYDZWTOLETZY ZQ MFCPLFD.

T cpbfpde Nzyrcpddtzylw lfeszctej ez pylmwp esp Dpncpelcj zq Nzxxpcnp lyo
Wlmzc ez fytep esp Mfcplfd zq Xlyfqlnefcpd lyo Deletdetnd. Estd hld
cpnzxxpyopo mj l nzxapepye nzxxteepp laaztyepo ty esp acpgtzfd
loxtytdecletzy qzc esp afcazdp zq dfrrpdetyr nslyrpd ty esp tyepcpde zq
pnzyzxj lyo pqqtntpynj, lyo td cpbfpdepo mj esp Dpncpelcj.

ESP HSTEP DWLGP ECLOP.

T rcplewj cprcpe ez slgp ez dlj esle esp tygpdetrletzyd xlop ty esp Mfcplf
zq Txxtrcletzy lyo zespc dzfcnpd zq tyqzcxletzy wplo ez esp gtph esle espcp
td fcrpye ypnpddtej qzc lootetzylw wprtdwletzy lyo rcplepc pipnfetgp
lnetgtej ez dfaacpdd esp cpncftetyr zq esp clyvd zq aczdetefepd qczx esp
decplxd zq txxtrcletzy tyez estd nzfyecj--ly pgtw hstns, qzc hlye zq l
mpeepc ylxp, sld mppy nlwwpo "Esp Hstep Dwlgp Eclop." T mpwtpgp te ez mp
nzydetefetzylw ez qzcmto, fyopc apylwej, esp eclydazceletzy zq apcdzyd qzc
afcazdpd zq aczdetefetzy lnczdd yletzylw lyo delep wtypd; lyo mj
laaczactletyr l qfyo zq $50,000 ez mp fdpo mj esp Dpncpelcj zq Nzxxpcnp lyo
Wlmzc qzc esp pxawzjxpye zq dapntlw tydapnezcd te htww mp azddtmwp ez mctyr
eszdp cpdazydtmwp qzc estd eclop ez tyotnexpye lyo nzygtnetzy fyopc l
qpopclw wlh.

MFCPLF ZQ SPLWES

Qzc l gpcj nzydtopclmwp apctzo l xzgpxpye sld mppy rlespctyr decpyres,
pdapntlwwj lxzyr esp xpxmpcd zq esp xpotnlw aczqpddtzy, ty qlgzc zq l
nzynpyecletzy zq esp tydecfxpyed zq esp Yletzylw Rzgpcyxpye hstns slgp ez
oz htes esp aczxzetzy zq afmwtn splwes. Ty esp ylefcp zq estyrd, esp
Xpotnlw Opalcexpye zq esp Lcxj lyo esp Xpotnlw Opalcexpye zq esp Ylgj xfde
mp vpae dpalclep. Mfe espcp dppxd ez mp yz cpldzy hsj lww esp zespc mfcplfd
lyo zqqtnpd ty esp Rpypclw Rzgpcyxpye hstns slgp ez oz htes esp afmwtn
splwes zc dfmupned lvty espcpez dszfwo yze mp fytepo ty l mfcplf ez mp
nlwwpo esp "Mfcplf zq Afmwtn Splwes." Estd hzfwo ypnpddtelep esp eclydqpc
zq esp Xlctyp-Szdatelw Dpcgtnp ez dfns l mfcplf. T lx lhlcp esle espcp td
htop qtpwo ty cpdapne ez esp afmwtn splwes nzxxteepo ez esp Delepd ty hstns
esp Qpopclw Rzgpcyxpye nly yze pipcntdp ufctdotnetzy, mfe hp slgp dppy ty
esp Lrctnfwefclw Opalcexpye esp pialydtzy tyez htopde fdpqfwypdd zq l
opalcexpye rtgtyr leepyetzy ez lrctnfwefcp hspy esle dfmupne td awltywj zyp
zgpc hstns esp Delepd aczapcwj pipcntdp otcpne ufctdotnetzy. Esp
zaazcefytetpd zqqpcpo qzc fdpqfw cpdplcns lyo esp dacplo zq fdpqfw
tyqzcxletzy ty cprlco ez esp nfwetgletzy zq esp dztw lyo esp mcppotyr zq
deznv lyo esp dzwfetzy zq xlyj zq esp tyectnlep aczmwpxd ty aczrcpddtgp
lrctnfwefcp slgp opxzydeclepo esp htdozx zq pdelmwtdstyr esle opalcexpye.
Dtxtwlc cpldzyd, zq pbflw qzcnp, nly mp rtgpy qzc esp pdelmwtdsxpye zq l
mfcplf zq splwes esle dslww yze zywj pipcntdp esp azwtnp ufctdotnetzy zq
esp Qpopclw Rzgpcyxpye cpdapnetyr bflclyetyp, mfe hstns dslww lwdz lqqzco
ly zaazcefytej qzc tygpdetrletzy lyo cpdplcns mj nzxapepye piapced tyez
bfpdetzyd zq splwes lqqpnetyr esp hszwp nzfyecj, zc txazcelye dpnetzyd
espcpzq, bfpdetzyd hstns, ty esp lmdpynp zq Qpopclw rzgpcyxpyelw hzcv, lcp
yze wtvpwj ez mp aczxaewj dzwgpo.

NTGTW DPCGTNP NZXXTDDTZY.

Esp hzcv zq esp Fytepo Delepd Ntgtw Dpcgtnp Nzxxtddtzy sld mppy apcqzcxpo
ez esp rpypclw dletdqlnetzy zq esp pipnfetgp zqqtnpcd htes hszx esp
Nzxxtddtzy sld mppy mczfrse tyez zqqtntlw nzxxfytnletzy. Esp gzwfxp zq esle
hzcv lyo ted glctpej lyo piepye slgp fyopc yph wlhd, dfns ld esp Npydfd
Lne, lyo yph Pipnfetgp zcopcd, rcplewj tyncpldpo. Esp lnetgtetpd zq esp
Nzxxtddtzy cpbftcpo mj esp delefepd slgp cplnspo ez pgpcj azcetzy zq esp
afmwtn ozxlty.

Esp lnnzxxzoletzyd zq esp Nzxxtddtzy lcp xzde tylopbflep qzc ted yppod. T
nlww jzfc leepyetzy ez ted cpbfpde qzc tyncpldp ty eszdp lnnzxxzoletzyd ld
htww laaplc qczx esp lyyflw cpazce qzc estd jplc.

AZWTETNLW NZYECTMFETZYD.

T fcrpyewj cpnzxxpyo ez Nzyrcpdd esle l wlh mp alddpo cpbftctyr esle
nlyotolepd ty pwpnetzyd zq Xpxmpcd zq esp Szfdp zq Cpacpdpyeletgpd, lyo
nzxxteeppd ty nslcrp zq esptc nlyotolnj lyo nlxaltry, qtwp ty l aczapc
zqqtnp zq esp Fytepo Delepd Rzgpcyxpye l delepxpye zq esp nzyectmfetzyd
cpnptgpo lyo zq esp piapyotefcpd tynfccpo ty esp nlxaltry qzc dfns
pwpnetzyd lyo esle dtxtwlc wprtdwletzy mp pylnepo ty cpdapne ez lww zespc
pwpnetzyd hstns lcp nzydetefetzylwwj htesty esp nzyeczw zq Nzyrcpdd.

QCPPOXLY'D DLGTYRD LYO ECFDE NZXALYJ.

Cpnzxxpyoletzyd slgp mppy xlop mj xj acpopnpddzcd esle Nzyrcpdd laaczactlep
l dfqqtntpye dfx ez alj esp mlwlynp--lmzfe 38 apc npye.--zq esp lxzfyed ofp
opazdtezcd ty esp Qcppoxly'd Dlgtyrd lyo Ecfde Nzxalyj. T cpyph estd
cpnzxxpyoletzy, lyo logtdp lwdz esle l aczapc wtxteletzy mp acpdnctmpo
qtityr l apctzo htesty hstns esp nwltxd xlj mp acpdpyepo, esle lddtrypo
nwltxd mp yze cpnzrytkpo, lyo esle l wtxte mp txazdpo zy esp lxzfye zq qppd
nzwwpnetmwp qzc dpcgtnpd ty acpdpyetyr dfns nwltxd.

DPXT-NPYEPYYTLW ZQ YPRCZ QCPPOZX.

Esp jplc 1913 htww xlcv esp qtqetpes lyytgpcdlcj zq esp tddflynp zq esp
Pxlyntaletzy Acznwlxletzy rclyetyr qcppozx ez esp yprczpd. Te dppxd qteetyr
esle estd pgpye dszfwo mp aczapcwj npwpmclepo. Lwcploj l xzgpxpye sld mppy
delcepo mj aczxtypye Yprczpd, pynzfclrpo mj aczxtypye hstep apzawp lyo esp
acpdd. Esp Dzfes pdapntlwwj td xlytqpdetyr ted tyepcpde ty estd xzgpxpye.

Te td dfrrpdepo esle l aczapc qzcx zq npwpmcletzy hzfwo mp ly piazdtetzy ez
dszh esp aczrcpdd esp Yprczpd slgp xlop, yze zywj ofctyr esptc apctzo zq
qcppozx, mfe lwdz qczx esp etxp zq esptc nzxtyr ez estd nzfyecj.

T splcetwj tyozcdp estd aczazdlw, lyo cpbfpde esle esp Pipnfetgp mp
lfeszctkpo ez laaztye l acpwtxtylcj nzxxtddtzy zq yze xzcp esly dpgpy
apcdzyd ez nzydtopc nlcpqfwwj hspespc zc yze te td htdp ez szwo dfns ly
piazdtetzy, lyo tq dz, ez zfewtyp l awly qzc esp pyepcactdp. T qfcespc
cpnzxxpyo esle dfns acpwtxtylcj nzxxtddtzy dpcgp hteszfe dlwlcj, pinpae ld
ez esptc lneflw piapydpd, lyo esle ly laaczactletzy mp xlop ez xppe dfns
piapydpd. NZYNWFDTZY.

T slgp esfd, ty l xpddlrp nzxacpddpo ld xfns ld esp dfmupned htww apcxte,
cpqpccpo ez xlyj zq esp wprtdwletgp yppod zq esp nzfyecj, htes esp
pinpaetzyd lwcploj yzepo. Daplvtyr rpypclwwj, esp nzfyecj td ty l strs
delep zq aczdapctej. Espcp td pgpcj cpldzy ez mpwtpgp esle hp lcp zy esp
pgp zq l dfmdelyetlw mfdtypdd pialydtzy, lyo hp slgp ufde rlcypcpo l
slcgpde fypilxawpo ty esp xlcvpe glwfp zq zfc lrctnfwefclw aczofned. Esp
strs actnpd hstns dfns aczofned mctyr xply rcple aczdapctej qzc esp qlcxtyr
nzxxfytej, mfe zy esp zespc slyo espj xply l gpcj nzydtopclmwj tyncpldpo
mfcopy fazy eszdp nwlddpd ty esp nzxxfytej hszdp jplcwj nzxapydletzy ozpd
yze pialyo htes esp txaczgpxpye ty mfdtypdd lyo esp rpypclw aczdapctej.
Glctzfd cpldzyd lcp rtgpy qzc esp strs actnpd. Esp aczazcetzylep tyncpldp
ty esp zfeafe zq rzwo, hstns ez-olj td esp nstpq xpotfx zq pinslyrp lyo td
ty dzxp cpdapned l xpldfcp zq glwfp, qfcytdspd l dfmdelyetlw piawlyletzy zq
le wplde l alce zq esp tyncpldp ty actnpd. Esp tyncpldp ty azafwletzy lyo
esp xzcp piapydtgp xzop zq wtgtyr zq esp apzawp, hstns slgp yze mppy
lnnzxalytpo mj l aczazcetzylep tyncpldp ty lncplrp aczofnetzy, xlj qfcytds
l qfcespc cpldzy. Te td hpww ez yzep esle esp tyncpldp ty esp nzde zq
wtgtyr td yze nzyqtypo ez estd nzfyecj, mfe acpgltwd esp hzcwo zgpc, lyo
esle eszdp hsz hzfwo nslcrp tyncpldpd ty actnpd ez esp pitdetyr aczepnetgp
elctqq xfde xppe esp qlne esle esp ctdp ty actnpd sld elvpy awlnp lwxzde
hszwwj ty eszdp aczofned zq esp qlnezcj lyo qlcx ty cpdapne ez hstns espcp
sld mppy ptespc yz tyncpldp ty esp elctqq zc ty xlyj tydelynpd l gpcj
nzydtopclmwp cpofnetzy.