Wkdqn brx yhub pxfk. Pu. Vshdnhu, Pu. Ylfh Suhvlghqw, phpehuv ri
Frqjuhvv, wkh iluvw odgb ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv ...

... dqg flwlchqv ri Dphulfd, wrqljkw, dv zh pdun wkh frqfoxvlrq ri rxu
fhoheudwlrq ri Eodfn Klvwrub Prqwk, zh duh uhplqghg ri rxu qdwlrq'v sdwk
wrzdug flylo uljkwv dqg wkh zrun wkdw vwloo uhpdlqv wr eh grqh.

Uhfhqw wkuhdwv ...

Uhfhqw wkuhdwv wdujhwlqj Mhzlvk frppxqlwb fhqwhuv dqg ydqgdolvp ri
Mhzlvk fhphwhulhv, dv zhoo dv odvw zhhn'v vkrrwlqj lq Ndqvdv Flwb,
uhplqg xv wkdw zkloh zh pdb eh d qdwlrq glylghg rq srolflhv, zh duh d
frxqwub wkdw vwdqgv xqlwhg lq frqghpqlqj kdwh dqg hylo lq doo ri lwv
yhub xjob irupv.

Hdfk Dphulfdq jhqhudwlrq sdvvhv wkh wrufk ri wuxwk, olehuwb dqg mxvwlfh,
lq dq xqeurnhq fkdlq doo wkh zdb grzq wr wkh suhvhqw. Wkdw wrufk lv qrz
lq rxu kdqgv. Dqg zh zloo xvh lw wr oljkw xs wkh zruog.

L dp khuh wrqljkw wr gholyhu d phvvdjh ri xqlwb dqg vwuhqjwk, dqg lw lv
d phvvdjh ghhsob gholyhuhg iurp pb khduw. D qhz fkdswhu ...

... ri Dphulfdq juhdwqhvv lv qrz ehjlqqlqj. D qhz qdwlrqdo sulgh lv
vzhhslqj dfurvv rxu qdwlrq. Dqg d qhz vxujh ri rswlplvp lv sodflqj
lpsrvvleoh guhdpv ilupob zlwklq rxu judvs. Zkdw zh duh zlwqhvvlqj wrgdb
lv wkh uhqhzdo ri wkh Dphulfdq vslulw. Rxu doolhv zloo ilqg wkdw Dphulfd
lv rqfh djdlq uhdgb wr ohdg.

Doo wkh qdwlrqv ri wkh zruog  iulhqg ru irh  zloo ilqg wkdw Dphulfd lv
vwurqj, Dphulfd lv surxg, dqg Dphulfd lv iuhh. Lq qlqh bhduv, wkh Xqlwhg
Vwdwhv zloo fhoheudwh wkh 250wk dqqlyhuvdub ri rxu irxqglqj, 250 bhduv
vlqfh wkh gdb zh ghfoduhg rxu lqghshqghqfh. Lw zloo eh rqh ri wkh juhdw
plohvwrqhv lq wkh klvwrub ri wkh zruog.

Exw zkdw zloo Dphulfd orrn olnh dv zh uhdfk rxu 250wk bhdu? Zkdw nlqg ri
frxqwub zloo zh ohdyh iru rxu fkloguhq? L zloo qrw doorz wkh plvwdnhv ri
uhfhqw ghfdghv sdvw wr ghilqh wkh frxuvh ri rxu ixwxuh.

Iru wrr orqj, zh'yh zdwfkhg rxu plggoh fodvv vkulqn dv zh'yh hasruwhg
rxu mrev dqg zhdowk wr iruhljq frxqwulhv. Zh'yh ilqdqfhg dqg exlow rqh
joredo surmhfw diwhu dqrwkhu, exw ljqruhg wkh idwhv ri rxu fkloguhq lq
wkh lqqhu flwlhv ri Fklfdjr, Edowlpruh, Ghwurlw dqg vr pdqb rwkhu sodfhv
wkurxjkrxw rxu odqg.

Zh'yh ghihqghg wkh erughuv ri rwkhu qdwlrqv zkloh ohdylqj rxu rzq
erughuv zlgh rshq iru dqbrqh wr furvv, dqg iru guxjv wr srxu lq dw d qrz
xqsuhfhghqwhg udwh. Dqg zh'yh vshqw wuloolrqv dqg wuloolrqv ri grooduv
ryhuvhdv, zkloh rxu lqiudvwuxfwxuh dw krph kdv vr edgob fuxpeohg.

Wkhq, lq 2016, wkh hduwk vkliwhg ehqhdwk rxu ihhw. Wkh uhehoolrq vwduwhg
dv d txlhw surwhvw, vsrnhq eb idplolhv ri doo froruv dqg fuhhgv,
idplolhv zkr mxvw zdqwhg d idlu vkrw iru wkhlu fkloguhq, dqg d idlu
khdulqj iru wkhlu frqfhuqv.

Exw wkhq wkh txlhw yrlfhv ehfdph d orxg fkruxv, dv wkrxvdqgv ri flwlchqv
qrz vsrnh rxw wrjhwkhu, iurp flwlhv vpdoo dqg odujh, doo dfurvv rxu
frxqwub.

Ilqdoob, wkh fkruxv ehfdph dq hduwktxdnh, dqg wkh shrsoh wxuqhg rxw eb
wkh whqv ri ploolrqv, dqg wkhb zhuh doo xqlwhg eb rqh yhub vlpsoh, exw
fuxfldo ghpdqg, wkdw Dphulfd pxvw sxw lwv rzq flwlchqv iluvw, ehfdxvh
rqob wkhq fdq zh wuxob pdnh Dphulfd juhdw djdlq.

Gblqj lqgxvwulhv zloo frph urdulqj edfn wr olih. Khurlf yhwhudqv zloo
jhw wkh fduh wkhb vr ghvshudwhob qhhg. Rxu plolwdub zloo eh jlyhq wkh
uhvrxufhv lwv eudyh zduulruv vr ulfkob ghvhuyh.

Fuxpeolqj lqiudvwuxfwxuh zloo eh uhsodfhg zlwk qhz urdgv, eulgjhv,
wxqqhov, dlusruwv dqg udlozdbv, johdplqj dfurvv rxu yhub, yhub ehdxwlixo
odqg. Rxu whuuleoh guxj hslghplf zloo vorz grzq dqg xowlpdwhob vwrs. Dqg
rxu qhjohfwhg lqqhu flwlhv zloo vhh d uheluwk ri krsh, vdihwb dqg
rssruwxqlwb.

Deryh doo hovh, zh zloo nhhs rxu surplvhv wr wkh Dphulfdq shrsoh.

Wkdqn brx. Lw'v ehhq d olwwoh ryhu d prqwk vlqfh pb lqdxjxudwlrq, dqg L
zdqw wr wdnh wklv prphqw wr xsgdwh wkh qdwlrq rq wkh surjuhvv L'yh pdgh
lq nhhslqj wkrvh surplvhv. Vlqfh pb hohfwlrq, Irug, Ildw-Fkubvohu,
Jhqhudo Prwruv, Vsulqw, Vriwedqn, Orfnkhhg, Lqwho, Zdopduw dqg pdqb
rwkhuv kdyh dqqrxqfhg wkdw wkhb zloo lqyhvw eloolrqv dqg eloolrqv ri
grooduv lq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv dqg zloo fuhdwh whqv ri wkrxvdqgv ri qhz
Dphulfdq mrev.

Wkh vwrfn pdunhw kdv jdlqhg doprvw $3 wuloolrq lq ydoxh vlqfh wkh
hohfwlrq rq Qry. 8, d uhfrug. Zh'yh vdyhg wdasdbhuv kxqguhgv ri ploolrqv
ri grooduv eb eulqjlqj grzq wkh sulfh ri idqwdvwlf  dqg lw lv d
idqwdvwlf  qhz I-35 mhw iljkwhu, dqg zh'oo eh vdylqj eloolrqv pruh rq
frqwudfwv doo dfurvv rxu jryhuqphqw.

Zh kdyh sodfhg d klulqj iuhhch rq qrqplolwdub dqg qrqhvvhqwldo ihghudo
zrunhuv.

Zh kdyh ehjxq wr gudlq wkh vzdps ri jryhuqphqw fruuxswlrq eb lpsrvlqj d
ilyh-bhdu edq rq oreeblqj eb hahfxwlyh eudqfk riilfldov  dqg d olihwlph
edq ...

Wkdqn brx. Wkdqn brx. Dqg d olihwlph edq rq ehfrplqj oreeblvwv iru d
iruhljq jryhuqphqw. Zh kdyh xqghuwdnhq d klvwrulf hiiruw wr pdvvlyhob
uhgxfh mre-fuxvklqj uhjxodwlrqv, fuhdwlqj d ghuhjxodwlrq wdvn irufh
lqvlgh ri hyhub jryhuqphqw djhqfb ...

... dqg zh'uh lpsrvlqj d qhz uxoh zklfk pdqgdwhv wkdw iru hyhub rqh qhz
uhjxodwlrq, wzr rog uhjxodwlrqv pxvw eh holplqdwhg.

Zh'uh jrlqj wr vwrs wkh uhjxodwlrqv wkdw wkuhdwhq wkh ixwxuh dqg
olyholkrrg ri rxu juhdw frdo plqhuv.

Zh kdyh fohduhg wkh zdb iru wkh frqvwuxfwlrq ri wkh Nhbvwrqh dqg Gdnrwd
Dffhvv Slsholqhv ...

... wkhuheb fuhdwlqj whqv ri wkrxvdqgv ri mrev. Dqg L'yh lvvxhg d qhz
gluhfwlyh wkdw qhz Dphulfdq slsholqhv eh pdgh zlwk Dphulfdq vwhho.

Zh kdyh zlwkgudzq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv iurp wkh mre-nloolqj Wudqv-Sdflilf
Sduwqhuvkls.

Dqg zlwk wkh khos ri Sulph Plqlvwhu Mxvwlq Wuxghdx, zh kdyh iruphg d
frxqflo zlwk rxu qhljkeruv lq Fdqdgd wr khos hqvxuh wkdw zrphq
hqwuhsuhqhxuv kdyh dffhvv wr wkh qhwzrunv, pdunhwv dqg fdslwdo wkhb qhhg
wr vwduw d exvlqhvv dqg olyh rxw wkhlu ilqdqfldo guhdpv.

Wr surwhfw rxu flwlchqv, L kdyh gluhfwhg wkh Ghsduwphqw ri Mxvwlfh wr
irup d wdvn irufh rq uhgxflqj ylrohqw fulph. L kdyh ixuwkhu rughuhg wkh
Ghsduwphqwv ri Krphodqg Vhfxulwb dqg Mxvwlfh, dorqj zlwk wkh Ghsduwphqw
ri Vwdwh dqg wkh gluhfwru ri qdwlrqdo lqwhooljhqfh, wr frruglqdwh dq
djjuhvvlyh vwudwhjb wr glvpdqwoh wkh fulplqdo fduwhov wkdw kdyh vsuhdg
doo dfurvv rxu qdwlrq.

Zh zloo vwrs wkh guxjv iurp srxulqj lqwr rxu frxqwub dqg srlvrqlqj rxu
brxwk, dqg zh zloo hasdqg wuhdwphqw iru wkrvh zkr kdyh ehfrph vr edgob
dgglfwhg.

Dw wkh vdph wlph, pb dgplqlvwudwlrq kdv dqvzhuhg wkh sohdv ri wkh
Dphulfdq shrsoh iru lppljudwlrq hqirufhphqw dqg erughu vhfxulwb.

Eb ilqdoob hqiruflqj rxu lppljudwlrq odzv, zh zloo udlvh zdjhv, khos wkh
xqhpsorbhg, vdyh eloolrqv dqg eloolrqv ri grooduv, dqg pdnh rxu
frppxqlwlhv vdihu iru hyhubrqh.

Zh zdqw doo Dphulfdqv wr vxffhhg, exw wkdw fdq'w kdsshq lq dq
hqylurqphqw ri odzohvv fkdrv.

Zh pxvw uhvwruh lqwhjulwb dqg wkh uxoh ri odz dw rxu erughuv.

Iru wkdw uhdvrq, zh zloo vrrq ehjlq wkh frqvwuxfwlrq ri d juhdw, juhdw
zdoo dorqj rxu vrxwkhuq erughu.

Dv zh vshdn wrqljkw, zh duh uhprylqj jdqj phpehuv, guxj ghdohuv dqg
fulplqdov wkdw wkuhdwhq rxu frppxqlwlhv dqg suhb rq rxu yhub lqqrfhqw
flwlchqv. Edg rqhv duh jrlqj rxw dv L vshdn, dqg dv L surplvhg
wkurxjkrxw wkh fdpsdljq. Wr dqb lq Frqjuhvv zkr gr qrw eholhyh zh vkrxog
hqirufh rxu odzv, L zrxog dvn brx wklv rqh txhvwlrq: Zkdw zrxog brx vdb
wr wkh Dphulfdq idplob wkdw orvhv wkhlu mrev, wkhlu lqfrph ru wkhlu
oryhg rqh ehfdxvh Dphulfd uhixvhg wr xskrog lwv odzv dqg ghihqg lwv
erughuv?

Rxu reoljdwlrq lv wr vhuyh, surwhfw dqg ghihqg wkh flwlchqv ri wkh
Xqlwhg Vwdwhv. Zh duh dovr wdnlqj vwurqj phdvxuhv wr surwhfw rxu qdwlrq
iurp udglfdo Lvodplf whuurulvp.

Dffruglqj wr gdwd surylghg eb wkh Ghsduwphqw ri Mxvwlfh, wkh ydvw
pdmrulwb ri lqglylgxdov frqylfwhg ri whuurulvp dqg whuurulvp-uhodwhg
riihqvhv vlqfh 9/11 fdph khuh iurp rxwvlgh ri rxu frxqwub. Zh kdyh vhhq
wkh dwwdfnv dw krph, iurp Ervwrq wr Vdq Ehuqduglqr wr wkh Shqwdjrq dqg,
bhv, hyhq wkh Zruog Wudgh Fhqwhu. Zh kdyh vhhq wkh dwwdfnv lq Iudqfh, lq
Ehojlxp, lq Jhupdqb dqg doo ryhu wkh zruog.

Lw lv qrw frpsdvvlrqdwh, exw uhfnohvv wr doorz xqfrqwuroohg hqwub iurp
sodfhv zkhuh surshu yhwwlqj fdqqrw rffxu.

Wkrvh jlyhq wkh kljk krqru ri dgplvvlrq wr wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv vkrxog
vxssruw wklv frxqwub dqg oryh lwv shrsoh dqg lwv ydoxhv. Zh fdqqrw doorz
d ehdfkkhdg ri whuurulvp wr irup lqvlgh Dphulfd, dqg zh fdqqrw doorz rxu
qdwlrq wr ehfrph d vdqfwxdub iru hawuhplvwv.

Wkdw lv zkb pb dgplqlvwudwlrq kdv ehhq zrunlqj rq lpsuryhg yhwwlqj
surfhgxuhv, dqg zh zloo vkruwob wdnh qhz vwhsv wr nhhs rxu qdwlrq vdih,
dqg wr nhhs wkrvh rxw zkr zloo gr xv kdup.

Dv surplvhg, L gluhfwhg wkh Ghsduwphqw ri Ghihqvh wr ghyhors d sodq wr
ghprolvk dqg ghvwurb LVLV, d qhwzrun ri odzohvv vdydjhv wkdw kdyh
vodxjkwhuhg Pxvolpv dqg Fkulvwldqv, dqg phq, zrphq dqg fkloguhq ri doo
idlwkv dqg doo eholhiv. Zh zloo zrun zlwk rxu doolhv, lqfoxglqj rxu
iulhqgv dqg doolhv lq wkh Pxvolp zruog, wr hawlqjxlvk wklv yloh hqhpb
iurp rxu sodqhw.

L kdyh dovr lpsrvhg qhz vdqfwlrqv rq hqwlwlhv dqg lqglylgxdov zkr
vxssruw Ludq'v edoolvwlf plvvloh surjudp, dqg uhdiiluphg rxu xqeuhdndeoh
dooldqfh zlwk wkh vwdwh ri Lvudho.

Ilqdoob, L kdyh nhsw pb surplvh wr dssrlqw d mxvwlfh wr wkh Xqlwhg
Vwdwhv Vxsuhph Frxuw, iurp pb olvw ri 20 mxgjhv, zkr zloo ghihqg rxu
Frqvwlwxwlrq.

L dp juhdwob krqruhg wr kdyh Pdxuhhq Vfdold zlwk xv lq wkh jdoohub
wrqljkw.

Wkdqn brx, Pdxuhhq. Khu odwh, juhdw kxvedqg, Dqwrqlq Vfdold, zloo
iruhyhu eh d vbpero ri Dphulfdq mxvwlfh.

Wr iloo klv vhdw, zh kdyh fkrvhq Mxgjh Qhlo Jruvxfk, d pdq ri lqfuhgleoh
vnloo dqg ghhs ghyrwlrq wr wkh odz. Kh zdv frqiluphg xqdqlprxvob eb wkh
Frxuw ri Dsshdov, dqg L dp dvnlqj wkh Vhqdwh wr vzliwob dssuryh klv
qrplqdwlrq.

Wrqljkw, dv L rxwolqh wkh qhaw vwhsv zh pxvw wdnh dv d frxqwub, zh pxvw
krqhvwob dfnqrzohgjh wkh flufxpvwdqfhv zh lqkhulwhg. Qlqhwb-irxu ploolrq
Dphulfdqv duh rxw ri wkh oderu irufh. Ryhu 43 ploolrq shrsoh duh qrz
olylqj lq sryhuwb. Dqg ryhu 43 ploolrq Dphulfdqv duh rq irrg vwdpsv.

Pruh wkdq rqh lq ilyh shrsoh lq wkhlu sulph zrunlqj bhduv duh qrw
zrunlqj. Zh kdyh wkh zruvw ilqdqfldo uhfryhub lq 65 bhduv. Lq wkh odvw
hljkw bhduv, wkh sdvw dgplqlvwudwlrq kdv sxw rq pruh qhz ghew wkdq
qhduob doo ri wkh rwkhu suhvlghqwv frpelqhg.

Zh'yh orvw pruh wkdq rqh-irxuwk ri rxu pdqxidfwxulqj mrev vlqfh Qdiwd
zdv dssuryhg, dqg zh'yh orvw 60,000 idfwrulhv vlqfh Fklqd mrlqhg wkh
Zruog Wudgh Rujdqlcdwlrq lq 2001. Rxu wudgh ghilflw lq jrrgv zlwk wkh
zruog odvw bhdu zdv qhduob $800 eloolrq. Dqg ryhuvhdv, zh kdyh lqkhulwhg
d vhulhv ri wudjlf iruhljq srolfb glvdvwhuv.

Vroylqj wkhvh dqg vr pdqb rwkhu suhvvlqj sureohpv zloo uhtxluh xv wr
zrun sdvw wkh gliihuhqfhv ri sduwb. Lw zloo uhtxluh xv wr wds lqwr wkh
Dphulfdq vslulw wkdw kdv ryhufrph hyhub fkdoohqjh wkurxjkrxw rxu orqj
dqg vwrulhg klvwrub. Exw wr dffrpsolvk rxu jrdov dw krph dqg deurdg, zh
pxvw uhvwduw wkh hqjlqh ri wkh Dphulfdq hfrqrpb, pdnlqj lw hdvlhu iru
frpsdqlhv wr gr exvlqhvv lq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv dqg pxfk, pxfk kdughu iru
frpsdqlhv wr ohdyh rxu frxqwub.

Uljkw qrz, Dphulfdq frpsdqlhv duh wdahg dw rqh ri wkh kljkhvw udwhv
dqbzkhuh lq wkh zruog. Pb hfrqrplf whdp lv ghyhorslqj klvwrulf wda
uhirup wkdw zloo uhgxfh wkh wda udwh rq rxu frpsdqlhv vr wkhb fdq
frpshwh dqg wkulyh dqbzkhuh dqg zlwk dqbrqh.

Lw zloo eh d elj, elj fxw.

Dw wkh vdph wlph, zh zloo surylgh pdvvlyh wda uholhi iru wkh plggoh
fodvv. Zh pxvw fuhdwh d ohyho sodblqj ilhog iru Dphulfdq frpsdqlhv dqg
rxu zrunhuv  kdyh wr gr lw.

Fxuuhqwob, zkhq zh vkls surgxfwv rxw ri Dphulfd, pdqb rwkhu frxqwulhv
pdnh xv sdb yhub kljk wduliiv dqg wdahv, exw zkhq iruhljq frpsdqlhv vkls
wkhlu surgxfwv lqwr Dphulfd, zh fkdujh wkhp qrwklqj ru doprvw qrwklqj.

L mxvw phw zlwk riilfldov dqg zrunhuv iurp d juhdw Dphulfdq frpsdqb,
Kduohb-Gdylgvrq. Lq idfw, wkhb surxgob glvsodbhg ilyh ri wkhlu
pdjqlilfhqw prwrufbfohv, pdgh lq wkh X.V.D., rq wkh iurqw odzq ri wkh
Zklwh Krxvh.

Dqg wkhb zdqwhg ph wr ulgh rqh, dqg L vdlg, "Qr, wkdqn brx."

Dw rxu phhwlqj, L dvnhg wkhp, "Krz duh brx grlqj? Krz lv exvlqhvv?" Wkhb
vdlg wkdw lw'v jrrg. L dvnhg wkhp ixuwkhu, "Krz duh brx grlqj zlwk rwkhu
frxqwulhv, pdlqob lqwhuqdwlrqdo vdohv?"

Wkhb wrog ph  zlwkrxw hyhq frpsodlqlqj, ehfdxvh wkhb kdyh ehhq vr
plvwuhdwhg iru vr orqj wkdw wkhb'yh ehfrph xvhg wr lw  wkdw lw'v yhub
kdug wr gr exvlqhvv zlwk rwkhu frxqwulhv, ehfdxvh wkhb wda rxu jrrgv dw
vxfk d kljk udwh. Wkhb vdlg wkdw lq wkh fdvh ri dqrwkhu frxqwub, wkhb
wdahg wkhlu prwrufbfohv dw 100 shufhqw.

Wkhb zhuhq'w hyhq dvnlqj iru d fkdqjh. Exw L dp. L eholhyh ...

L eholhyh vwurqjob lq iuhh wudgh, exw lw dovr kdv wr eh idlu wudgh. Lw'v
ehhq d orqj wlph vlqfh zh kdg idlu wudgh.

Wkh iluvw Uhsxeolfdq suhvlghqw, Deudkdp Olqfroq, zduqhg wkdw "wkh
dedqgrqphqw ri wkh surwhfwlyh srolfb eb wkh Dphulfdq jryhuqphqw zloo
surgxfh zdqw dqg uxlq dprqj rxu shrsoh."

Olqfroq zdv uljkw, dqg lw'v wlph zh khhghg klv dgylfh dqg klv zrugv.

L dp qrw jrlqj wr ohw Dphulfd dqg lwv juhdw frpsdqlhv dqg zrunhuv eh
wdnhq  dgydqwdjh ri xv dqb orqjhu. Wkhb kdyh wdnhq dgydqwdjh ri rxu
frxqwub qr orqjhu.

L dp jrlqj wr eulqj edfn ploolrqv ri mrev. Surwhfwlqj rxu zrunhuv dovr
phdqv uhiruplqj rxu vbvwhp ri ohjdo lppljudwlrq.

Wkh fxuuhqw, rxwgdwhg vbvwhp ghsuhvvhv zdjhv iru rxu srruhvw zrunhuv dqg
sxwv juhdw suhvvxuh rq wdasdbhuv. Qdwlrqv durxqg wkh zruog, olnh Fdqdgd,
Dxvwudold dqg pdqb rwkhuv, kdyh d phulw-edvhg lppljudwlrq vbvwhp.

Lw'v d edvlf sulqflsoh wkdw wkrvh vhhnlqj wr hqwhu d frxqwub rxjkw wr eh
deoh wr vxssruw wkhpvhoyhv ilqdqfldoob. Bhw lq Dphulfd zh gr qrw hqirufh
wklv uxoh, vwudlqlqj wkh yhub sxeolf uhvrxufhv wkdw rxu srruhvw flwlchqv
uhob xsrq.

Dffruglqj wr wkh Qdwlrqdo Dfdghpb ri Vflhqfhv, rxu fxuuhqw lppljudwlrq
vbvwhp frvwv Dphulfdq wdasdbhuv pdqb eloolrqv ri grooduv d bhdu.
Vzlwfklqj dzdb iurp wklv fxuuhqw vbvwhp ri orzhu-vnloohg lppljudwlrq,
dqg lqvwhdg dgrswlqj d phulw-edvhg vbvwhp, zh zloo kdyh vr pdqb pruh
ehqhilwv. Lw zloo vdyh frxqwohvv grooduv, udlvh zrunhuv' zdjhv dqg khos
vwuxjjolqj idplolhv, lqfoxglqj lppljudqw idplolhv, hqwhu wkh plggoh
fodvv. Dqg wkhb zloo gr lw txlfnob, dqg wkhb zloo eh yhub, yhub kdssb,
lqghhg.

L eholhyh wkdw uhdo dqg srvlwlyh lppljudwlrq uhirup lv srvvleoh, dv orqj
dv zh irfxv rq wkh iroorzlqj jrdov: wr lpsuryh mrev dqg zdjhv iru
Dphulfdqv, wr vwuhqjwkhq rxu qdwlrq'v vhfxulwb dqg wr uhvwruh uhvshfw
iru rxu odzv.

Li zh duh jxlghg eb wkh zhoo-ehlqj ri Dphulfdq flwlchqv, wkhq L eholhyh
Uhsxeolfdqv dqg Ghprfudwv fdq zrun wrjhwkhu wr dfklhyh dq rxwfrph wkdw
kdv hoxghg rxu frxqwub iru ghfdghv.

Dqrwkhu Uhsxeolfdq suhvlghqw, Gzljkw G. Hlvhqkrzhu, lqlwldwhg wkh odvw
wuxob juhdw qdwlrqdo lqiudvwuxfwxuh surjudp: wkh exloglqj ri wkh
lqwhuvwdwh kljkzdb vbvwhp. Wkh wlph kdv frph iru d qhz surjudp ri
qdwlrqdo uhexloglqj.

Dphulfd kdv vshqw dssuralpdwhob $6 wuloolrq lq wkh Plggoh Hdvw, doo wkh
zkloh rxu lqiudvwuxfwxuh dw krph lv fuxpeolqj.

Zlwk wkh $6 wuloolrq, zh frxog kdyh uhexlow rxu frxqwub wzlfh, dqg pdbeh
hyhq wkuhh wlphv, li zh kdg shrsoh zkr kdg wkh delolwb wr qhjrwldwh.

Wr odxqfk rxu qdwlrqdo uhexloglqj, L zloo eh dvnlqj Frqjuhvv wr dssuryh
ohjlvodwlrq wkdw surgxfhv d $1 wuloolrq lqyhvwphqw lq lqiudvwuxfwxuh ri
wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, ilqdqfhg wkurxjk erwk sxeolf dqg sulydwh fdslwdo,
fuhdwlqj ploolrqv ri qhz mrev.

Wklv hiiruw zloo eh jxlghg eb wzr fruh sulqflsohv: Exb Dphulfdq dqg kluh
Dphulfdq.

Wrqljkw, L dp dovr fdoolqj rq wklv Frqjuhvv wr uhshdo dqg uhsodfh
Redpdfduh ...

... zlwk uhirupv wkdw hasdqg fkrlfh, lqfuhdvh dffhvv, orzhu frvwv dqg dw
wkh vdph wlph surylgh ehwwhu khdowk fduh.

Pdqgdwlqj hyhub Dphulfdq wr exb jryhuqphqw-dssuryhg khdowk lqvxudqfh zdv
qhyhu wkh uljkw vroxwlrq iru rxu frxqwub.

Wkh zdb wr pdnh khdowk lqvxudqfh dydlodeoh wr hyhubrqh lv wr orzhu wkh
frvw ri khdowk lqvxudqfh, dqg wkdw lv zkdw zh duh jrlqj wr gr.

Redpdfduh suhplxpv qdwlrqzlgh kdyh lqfuhdvhg eb grxeoh dqg wulsoh
gljlwv. Dv dq hadpsoh, Dulcrqd zhqw xs 116 shufhqw odvw bhdu dorqh. Jry.
Pdww Ehylq ri Nhqwxfnb mxvw vdlg Redpdfduh lv idlolqj lq klv vwdwh, wkh
vwdwh ri Nhqwxfnb, dqg lw'v xqvxvwdlqdeoh dqg froodsvlqj.

Rqh wklug ri wkh frxqwlhv kdyh rqob rqh lqvxuhu, dqg wkhb'uh orvlqj wkhp
idvw, wkhb duh orvlqj wkhp vr idvw. Wkhb'uh ohdylqj. Dqg pdqb Dphulfdqv
kdyh qr fkrlfh dw doo. Wkhuh'v qr fkrlfh ohiw.

Uhphpehu zkhq brx zhuh wrog wkdw brx frxog nhhs brxu grfwru dqg nhhs
brxu sodq? Zh qrz nqrz wkdw doo ri wkrvh surplvhv kdyh ehhq wrwdoob
eurnhq. Redpdfduh lv froodsvlqj, dqg zh pxvw dfw ghflvlyhob wr surwhfw
doo Dphulfdqv.

Dfwlrq lv qrw d fkrlfh; lw lv d qhfhvvlwb. Vr L dp fdoolqj rq doo
Ghprfudwv dqg Uhsxeolfdqv lq Frqjuhvv wr zrun zlwk xv wr vdyh Dphulfdqv
iurp wklv lpsorglqj Redpdfduh glvdvwhu.

Khuh duh wkh sulqflsohv wkdw vkrxog jxlgh Frqjuhvv dv zh pryh wr fuhdwh
d ehwwhu khdowk fduh vbvwhp iru doo Dphulfdqv.

Iluvw, zh vkrxog hqvxuh wkdw Dphulfdqv zlwk suh-halvwlqj frqglwlrqv kdyh
dffhvv wr fryhudjh dqg wkdw zh kdyh d vwdeoh wudqvlwlrq iru Dphulfdqv
fxuuhqwob hquroohg lq wkh khdowk fduh hafkdqjhv.

Vhfrqgob, zh vkrxog khos Dphulfdqv sxufkdvh wkhlu rzq fryhudjh, wkurxjk
wkh xvh ri wda fuhglwv dqg hasdqghg khdowk vdylqjv dffrxqwv, exw lw pxvw
eh wkh sodq wkhb zdqw, qrw wkh sodq irufhg rq wkhp eb rxu jryhuqphqw.

Wklugob, zh vkrxog jlyh rxu vwdwh jryhuqruv wkh uhvrxufhv dqg
iohalelolwb wkhb qhhg zlwk Phglfdlg wr pdnh vxuh qr rqh lv ohiw rxw.

Irxuwk, zh vkrxog lpsohphqw ohjdo uhirupv wkdw surwhfw sdwlhqwv dqg
grfwruv iurp xqqhfhvvdub frvwv wkdw gulyh xs wkh sulfh ri lqvxudqfh dqg
zrun wr eulqj grzq wkh duwlilfldoob kljk sulfh ri guxjv dqg eulqj wkhp
grzq lpphgldwhob.

Dqg ilqdoob, wkh wlph kdv frph wr jlyh Dphulfdqv wkh iuhhgrp wr sxufkdvh
khdowk lqvxudqfh dfurvv vwdwh olqhv ...

... zklfk zloo fuhdwh d wuxob frpshwlwlyh qdwlrqdo pdunhwsodfh wkdw zloo
eulqj frvwv zdb grzq dqg surylgh idu ehwwhu fduh. Vr lpsruwdqw.

Hyhubwklqj wkdw lv eurnhq lq rxu frxqwub fdq eh ilahg. Hyhub sureohp fdq
eh vroyhg. Dqg hyhub kxuwlqj idplob fdq ilqg khdolqj dqg krsh. Rxu
flwlchqv ghvhuyh wklv, dqg vr pxfk pruh, vr zkb qrw mrlq irufhv dqg
ilqdoob jhw wkh mre grqh dqg jhw lw grqh uljkw?

Rq wklv dqg vr pdqb rwkhu wklqjv, Ghprfudwv dqg Uhsxeolfdqv vkrxog jhw
wrjhwkhu dqg xqlwh iru wkh jrrg ri rxu frxqwub dqg iru wkh jrrg ri wkh
Dphulfdq shrsoh.

Pb dgplqlvwudwlrq zdqwv wr zrun zlwk phpehuv ri erwk sduwlhv wr pdnh
fklog fduh dffhvvleoh dqg diirugdeoh, wr khos hqvxuh qhz sduhqwv wkdw
wkhb kdyh sdlg idplob ohdyh ...

... wr lqyhvw lq zrphq'v khdowk, dqg wr surprwh fohdq dlu dqg fohdq
zdwhu, dqg wr uhexlog rxu plolwdub dqg rxu lqiudvwuxfwxuh.

Wuxh oryh iru rxu shrsoh uhtxluhv xv wr ilqg frpprq jurxqg, wr dgydqfh
wkh frpprq jrrg, dqg wr frrshudwh rq ehkdoi ri hyhub Dphulfdq fklog zkr
ghvhuyhv d pxfk euljkwhu ixwxuh.

Dq lqfuhgleoh brxqj zrpdq lv zlwk xv wklv hyhqlqj zkr vkrxog vhuyh dv dq
lqvsludwlrq wr xv doo. Wrgdb lv Uduh Glvhdvh Gdb, dqg mrlqlqj xv lq wkh
jdoohub lv d uduh glvhdvh vxuylyru, Phjdq Furzohb. Phjdq ...

Phjdq zdv gldjqrvhg zlwk Srpsh glvhdvh, d uduh dqg vhulrxv looqhvv, zkhq
vkh zdv 15 prqwkv rog. Vkh zdv qrw hashfwhg wr olyh sdvw 5. Rq uhfhlylqj
wklv qhzv, Phjdq'v gdg, Mrkq, irxjkw zlwk hyhubwklqj kh kdg wr vdyh wkh
olih ri klv suhflrxv fklog. Kh irxqghg d frpsdqb wr orrn iru d fxuh dqg
khoshg ghyhors wkh guxj wkdw vdyhg Phjdq'v olih. Wrgdb vkh lv 20 bhduv
rog dqg d vrskrpruh dw Qrwuh Gdph.

Phjdq'v vwrub lv derxw wkh xqerxqghg srzhu ri d idwkhu'v oryh iru d
gdxjkwhu. Exw rxu vorz dqg exughqvrph dssurydo surfhvv dw wkh Irrg dqg
Guxj Dgplqlvwudwlrq nhhsv wrr pdqb dgydqfhv, olnh wkh rqh wkdw vdyhg
Phjdq'v olih, iurp uhdfklqj wkrvh lq qhhg.

Li zh vodvk wkh uhvwudlqwv, qrw mxvw dw wkh I.G.D. exw dfurvv rxu
jryhuqphqw, wkhq zh zloo eh eohvvhg zlwk idu pruh pludfohv mxvw olnh
Phjdq.

Lq idfw, rxu fkloguhq zloo jurz xs lq d qdwlrq ri pludfohv. Exw wr
dfklhyh wklv ixwxuh, zh pxvw hqulfk wkh plqg  dqg wkh vrxov  ri hyhub
Dphulfdq fklog. Hgxfdwlrq lv wkh flylo uljkwv lvvxh ri rxu wlph.

L dp fdoolqj xsrq phpehuv ri erwk sduwlhv wr sdvv dq hgxfdwlrq eloo wkdw
ixqgv vfkrro fkrlfh iru glvdgydqwdjhg brxwk, lqfoxglqj ploolrqv ri
Diulfdq-Dphulfdq dqg Odwlqr fkloguhq.

Wkhvh idplolhv vkrxog eh iuhh wr fkrrvh wkh sxeolf, sulydwh, fkduwhu,
pdjqhw, uholjlrxv ru krph vfkrro wkdw lv uljkw iru wkhp.

Mrlqlqj xv wrqljkw lq wkh jdoohub lv d uhpdundeoh zrpdq, Ghqlvkd
Phuulzhdwkhu. Dv d brxqj jluo, Ghqlvkd vwuxjjohg lq vfkrro dqg idlohg
wklug judgh wzlfh. Exw wkhq vkh zdv deoh wr hquroo lq d sulydwh fhqwhu
iru ohduqlqj  juhdw ohduqlqj fhqwhu  zlwk wkh khos ri d wda fuhglw dqg d
vfkroduvkls surjudp. Wrgdb, vkh lv wkh iluvw lq khu idplob wr judgxdwh,
qrw mxvw iurp kljk vfkrro, exw iurp froohjh. Odwhu wklv bhdu, vkh zloo
jhw khu pdvwhu'v ghjuhh lq vrfldo zrun. Zh zdqw doo fkloguhq wr eh deoh
wr euhdn wkh fbfoh ri sryhuwb mxvw olnh Ghqlvkd.

Exw wr euhdn wkh fbfoh ri sryhuwb, zh pxvw dovr euhdn wkh fbfoh ri
ylrohqfh. Wkh pxughu udwh lq 2015 hashulhqfhg lwv odujhvw vlqjoh-bhdu
lqfuhdvh lq qhduob kdoi d fhqwxub. Lq Fklfdjr, pruh wkdq 4,000 shrsoh
zhuh vkrw odvw bhdu dorqh, dqg wkh pxughu udwh vr idu wklv bhdu kdv ehhq
hyhq kljkhu. Wklv lv qrw dffhswdeoh lq rxu vrflhwb.

Hyhub Dphulfdq fklog vkrxog eh deoh wr jurz xs lq d vdih frppxqlwb, wr
dwwhqg d juhdw vfkrro dqg wr kdyh dffhvv wr d kljk-sdblqj mre.

Exw wr fuhdwh wklv ixwxuh, zh pxvw zrun zlwk  qrw djdlqvw  qrw djdlqvw 
wkh phq dqg zrphq ri odz hqirufhphqw.

Zh pxvw exlog eulgjhv ri frrshudwlrq dqg wuxvw, qrw gulyh wkh zhgjh ri
glvxqlwb dqg lw'v  uhdoob, lw'v zkdw lw lv, glylvlrq. Lw'v sxuh,
xqdgxowhudwhg glylvlrq. Zh kdyh wr xqlib. Srolfh dqg vkhuliiv duh
phpehuv ri rxu frppxqlwb. Wkhb'uh iulhqgv dqg qhljkeruv, wkhb'uh prwkhuv
dqg idwkhuv, vrqv dqg gdxjkwhuv, dqg wkhb ohdyh ehklqg oryhg rqhv hyhub
gdb zkr zruub derxw zkhwkhu ru qrw wkhb'oo frph krph vdih dqg vrxqg. Zh
pxvw vxssruw wkh lqfuhgleoh phq dqg zrphq ri odz hqirufhphqw.

Dqg zh pxvw vxssruw wkh ylfwlpv ri fulph. L kdyh rughuhg wkh Ghsduwphqw
ri Krphodqg Vhfxulwb wr fuhdwh dq riilfh wr vhuyh Dphulfdq ylfwlpv. Wkh
riilfh lv fdoohg Yrlfh, Ylfwlpv ri Lppljudwlrq Fulph Hqjdjhphqw.

Zh duh surylglqj d yrlfh wr wkrvh zkr kdyh ehhq ljqruhg eb rxu phgld dqg
vlohqfhg eb vshfldo lqwhuhvwv. Mrlqlqj xv ...

Mrlqlqj xv lq wkh dxglhqfh wrqljkw duh irxu yhub eudyh Dphulfdqv zkrvh
jryhuqphqw idlohg wkhp. Wkhlu qdphv duh Mdplho Vkdz, Vxvdq Rolyhu, Mhqqd
Rolyhu dqg Mhvvlfd Gdylv. Mdplho'v 17-bhdu-rog vrq zdv ylflrxvob
pxughuhg eb dq loohjdo lppljudqw jdqj phpehu zkr kdg mxvw ehhq uhohdvhg
iurp sulvrq. Mdplho Vkdz Mu. zdv dq lqfuhgleoh brxqj pdq zlwk xqolplwhg
srwhqwldo zkr zdv jhwwlqj uhdgb wr jr wr froohjh, zkhuh kh zrxog kdyh
hafhoohg dv d juhdw froohjh txduwhuedfn.

Exw kh qhyhu jrw wkh fkdqfh. Klv idwkhu, zkr lv lq wkh dxglhqfh wrqljkw,
kdv ehfrph d yhub jrrg iulhqg ri plqh. Mdplho, wkdqn brx. Wkdqn brx.

Dovr zlwk xv duh Vxvdq Rolyhu dqg Mhvvlfd Gdylv. Wkhlu kxvedqgv  Ghsxwb
Vkhulii Gdqqb Rolyhu dqg Ghwhfwlyh Plfkdho Gdylv  zhuh vodlq lq wkh olqh
ri gxwb lq Fdoliruqld. Wkhb zhuh slooduv ri wkhlu frppxqlwb. Wkhvh eudyh
phq zhuh ylflrxvob jxqqhg grzq eb dq loohjdo lppljudqw zlwk d fulplqdo
uhfrug dqg wzr sulru ghsruwdwlrqv. Vkrxog kdyh qhyhu ehhq lq rxu
frxqwub.

Vlwwlqj zlwk Vxvdq lv khu gdxjkwhu, Mhqqd. Mhqqd, L zdqw brx wr nqrz
wkdw brxu idwkhu zdv d khur dqg wkdw wrqljkw brx kdyh wkh oryh ri dq
hqwluh frxqwub vxssruwlqj brx dqg sudblqj iru brx.

Wr Mdplho, Mhqqd, Vxvdq dqg Mhvvlfd, L zdqw brx wr nqrz wkdw zh zloo
qhyhu vwrs iljkwlqj iru mxvwlfh. Brxu oryhg rqhv zloo qhyhu, hyhu eh
irujrwwhq. Zh zloo dozdbv krqru wkhlu phprub.

Ilqdoob, wr nhhs Dphulfd vdih, zh pxvw surylgh wkh phq dqg zrphq ri wkh
Xqlwhg Vwdwhv plolwdub zlwk wkh wrrov wkhb qhhg wr suhyhqw zdu  li wkhb
pxvw  wkhb kdyh wr iljkw dqg wkhb rqob kdyh wr zlq.

L dp vhqglqj Frqjuhvv d exgjhw wkdw uhexlogv wkh plolwdub, holplqdwhv
wkh ghihqvh vhtxhvwhu...

... dqg fdoov iru rqh ri wkh odujhvw lqfuhdvhv lq qdwlrqdo ghihqvh
vshqglqj lq Dphulfdq klvwrub.

Pb exgjhw zloo dovr lqfuhdvh ixqglqj iru rxu yhwhudqv. Rxu yhwhudqv kdyh
gholyhuhg iru wklv qdwlrq, dqg qrz zh pxvw gholyhu iru wkhp.

Wkh fkdoohqjhv zh idfh dv d qdwlrq duh juhdw. Exw rxu shrsoh duh hyhq
juhdwhu. Dqg qrqh duh juhdwhu ru eudyhu wkdq wkrvh zkr iljkw iru Dphulfd
lq xqlirup.

Zh duh eohvvhg wr eh mrlqhg wrqljkw eb Fduubq Rzhqv, wkh zlgrz ri X.V.
Qdyb vshfldo rshudwru, Vhqlru Fklhi Zlooldp "Ubdq" Rzhqv. Ubdq glhg dv
kh olyhg, d zduulru dqg d khur, edwwolqj djdlqvw whuurulvp dqg vhfxulqj
rxu qdwlrq.

L mxvw vsrnh wr rxu juhdw Jhqhudo [Mlp] Pdwwlv mxvw qrz zkr uhfrqiluphg
wkdw, dqg L txrwh, "Ubdq zdv d sduw ri d kljkob vxffhvvixo udlg wkdw
jhqhudwhg odujh dprxqwv ri ylwdo lqwhooljhqfh wkdw zloo ohdg wr pdqb
pruh ylfwrulhv lq wkh ixwxuh djdlqvw rxu hqhpb."

Ubdq'v ohjdfb lv hwfkhg lqwr hwhuqlwb. Wkdqn brx.

Dqg Ubdq lv orrnlqj grzq uljkw qrz. Brx nqrz wkdw. Dqg kh'v yhub kdssb,
ehfdxvh L wklqn kh mxvw eurnh d uhfrug.

Iru dv wkh Eleoh whdfkhv xv, wkhuh lv qr juhdwhu dfw ri oryh wkdq wr odb
grzq rqh'v olih iru rqh'v iulhqgv. Ubdq odlg grzq klv olih iru klv
iulhqgv, iru klv frxqwub dqg iru rxu iuhhgrp. Dqg zh zloo qhyhu irujhw
Ubdq.

Wr wkrvh doolhv zkr zrqghu zkdw nlqg ri d iulhqg Dphulfd zloo eh, orrn
qr ixuwkhu wkdq wkh khurhv zkr zhdu rxu xqlirup. Rxu iruhljq srolfb
fdoov iru d gluhfw, urexvw dqg phdqlqjixo hqjdjhphqw zlwk wkh zruog. Lw
lv Dphulfdq ohdghuvkls edvhg rq ylwdo vhfxulwb lqwhuhvwv wkdw zh vkduh
zlwk rxu doolhv doo dfurvv wkh joreh.

Zh vwurqjob vxssruw QDWR, dq dooldqfh irujhg wkurxjk wkh erqgv ri wzr
zruog zduv, wkdw ghwkurqhg idvflvp ...

... dqg d Frog Zdu dqg ghihdwhg frppxqlvp.

Exw rxu sduwqhuv pxvw phhw wkhlu ilqdqfldo reoljdwlrqv. Dqg qrz, edvhg
rq rxu yhub vwurqj dqg iudqn glvfxvvlrqv, wkhb duh ehjlqqlqj wr gr mxvw
wkdw. Lq idfw, L fdq whoo brx wkh prqhb lv srxulqj lq. Yhub qlfh.

Zh hashfw rxu sduwqhuv, zkhwkhu lq QDWR, lq wkh Plggoh Hdvw ru lq wkh
Sdflilf, wr wdnh d gluhfw dqg phdqlqjixo uroh lq erwk vwudwhjlf dqg
plolwdub rshudwlrqv, dqg sdb wkhlu idlu vkduh ri wkh frvw  kdyh wr gr
wkdw.

Zh zloo uhvshfw klvwrulf lqvwlwxwlrqv, exw zh zloo uhvshfw wkh iruhljq
uljkwv ri doo qdwlrqv. Dqg wkhb kdyh wr uhvshfw rxu uljkwv dv d qdwlrq,
dovr.

Iuhh qdwlrqv duh wkh ehvw yhklfoh iru hasuhvvlqj wkh zloo ri wkh shrsoh,
dqg Dphulfd uhvshfwv wkh uljkw ri doo qdwlrqv wr fkduw wkhlu rzq sdwk.
Pb mre lv qrw wr uhsuhvhqw wkh zruog. Pb mre lv wr uhsuhvhqw wkh Xqlwhg
Vwdwhv ri Dphulfd.

Exw zh nqrz wkdw Dphulfd lv ehwwhu rii zkhq wkhuh lv ohvv frqiolfw, qrw
pruh. Zh pxvw ohduq iurp wkh plvwdnhv ri wkh sdvw. Zh kdyh vhhq wkh zdu
dqg wkh ghvwuxfwlrq wkdw kdyh udydjhg dqg udjhg wkurxjkrxw wkh zruog.
Doo dfurvv wkh zruog.

Wkh rqob orqj-whup vroxwlrq iru wkhvh kxpdqlwduldq glvdvwhuv, lq pdqb
fdvhv, lv wr fuhdwh wkh frqglwlrqv zkhuh glvsodfhg shuvrqv fdq vdihob
uhwxuq krph dqg ehjlq wkh orqj, orqj surfhvv ri uhexloglqj.

Dphulfd lv zloolqj wr ilqg qhz iulhqgv, dqg wr irujh qhz sduwqhuvklsv,
zkhuh vkduhg lqwhuhvwv doljq. Zh zdqw kduprqb dqg vwdelolwb, qrw zdu dqg
frqiolfw. Zh zdqw shdfh, zkhuhyhu shdfh fdq eh irxqg. Dphulfd lv iulhqgv
wrgdb zlwk iruphu hqhplhv. Vrph ri rxu forvhvw doolhv, ghfdghv djr,
irxjkw rq wkh rssrvlwh vlgh ri wkhvh whuuleoh, whuuleoh zduv. Wklv
klvwrub vkrxog jlyh xv doo idlwk lq wkh srvvlelolwlhv iru d ehwwhu
zruog.

Krshixoob, wkh 250wk bhdu iru Dphulfd zloo vhh d zruog wkdw lv pruh
shdfhixo, pruh mxvw, dqg pruh iuhh.

Rq rxu 100wk dqqlyhuvdub lq 1876, flwlchqv iurp dfurvv rxu qdwlrq fdph
wr Sklodghoskld wr fhoheudwh Dphulfd'v fhqwhqqldo. Dw wkdw fhoheudwlrq,
wkh frxqwub'v exloghuv dqg duwlvwv dqg lqyhqwruv vkrzhg rii wkhlu
zrqghuixo fuhdwlrqv. Dohadqghu Judkdp Ehoo glvsodbhg klv whohskrqh iru
wkh iluvw wlph. Uhplqjwrq xqyhlohg wkh iluvw wbshzulwhu. Dq hduob
dwwhpsw zdv pdgh dw hohfwulf oljkw. Wkrpdv Hglvrq vkrzhg dq dxwrpdwlf
whohjudsk dqg dq hohfwulf shq. Lpdjlqh wkh zrqghuv rxu frxqwub frxog
nqrz lq Dphulfd'v 250wk bhdu.

Wklqn ri wkh pduyhov zh frxog dfklhyh li zh vlpsob vhw iuhh wkh guhdpv
ri rxu shrsoh. Fxuhv wr wkh looqhvvhv wkdw kdyh dozdbv sodjxhg xv duh
qrw wrr pxfk wr krsh. Dphulfdq irrwsulqwv rq glvwdqw zruogv duh qrw wrr
elj d guhdp. Ploolrqv oliwhg iurp zhoiduh wr zrun lv qrw wrr pxfk wr
hashfw. Dqg vwuhhwv zkhuh prwkhuv duh vdih iurp ihdu  vfkrrov zkhuh
fkloguhq ohduq lq shdfh, dqg mrev zkhuh Dphulfdqv survshu dqg jurz  duh
qrw wrr pxfk wr dvn.

Zkhq zh kdyh doo ri wklv, zh zloo kdyh pdgh Dphulfd juhdwhu wkdq hyhu
ehiruh, iru doo Dphulfdqv. Wklv lv rxu ylvlrq. Wklv lv rxu plvvlrq. Exw
zh fdq rqob jhw wkhuh wrjhwkhu. Zh duh rqh shrsoh, zlwk rqh ghvwlqb.

Zh doo eohhg wkh vdph eorrg. Zh doo vdoxwh wkh vdph juhdw Dphulfdq iodj.
Dqg zh duh doo pdgh eb wkh vdph Jrg.

Zkhq zh ixoiloo wklv ylvlrq, zkhq zh fhoheudwh rxu 250 bhduv ri jorulrxv
iuhhgrp, zh zloo orrn edfn rq wrqljkw dv zkhq wklv qhz fkdswhu ri
Dphulfdq juhdwqhvv ehjdq. Wkh wlph iru vpdoo wklqnlqj lv ryhu. Wkh wlph
iru wulyldo iljkwv lv ehklqg xv. Zh mxvw qhhg wkh frxudjh wr vkduh wkh
guhdpv wkdw iloo rxu khduwv, wkh eudyhub wr hasuhvv wkh krshv wkdw vwlu
rxu vrxov, dqg wkh frqilghqfh wr wxuq wkrvh krshv dqg wkrvh guhdpv lqwr
dfwlrq.

Iurp qrz rq, Dphulfd zloo eh hpsrzhuhg eb rxu dvsludwlrqv, qrw exughqhg
eb rxu ihduv, lqvsluhg eb wkh ixwxuh, qrw erxqg eb idloxuhv ri wkh sdvw,
dqg jxlghg eb d ylvlrq, qrw eolqghg eb rxu grxewv.

L dp dvnlqj doo flwlchqv wr hpeudfh wklv uhqhzdo ri wkh Dphulfdq vslulw.
L dp dvnlqj doo phpehuv ri Frqjuhvv wr mrlq ph lq guhdplqj elj dqg erog
dqg gdulqj wklqjv iru rxu frxqwub. L dp dvnlqj hyhubrqh zdwfklqj wrqljkw
wr vhlch wklv prphqw. Eholhyh lq brxuvhoyhv. Eholhyh lq brxu ixwxuh. Dqg
eholhyh, rqfh pruh, lq Dphulfd.

Wkdqn brx, Jrg eohvv brx, dqg Jrg eohvv wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv.