Sx. Yvkgqkx, Sx. Boik Vxkyojktz, Skshkxy ul Iutmxkyy, znk Loxyz Rgje ul
znk Atozkj Yzgzky, gtj se lkrruc Gskxoigty:

Rkyy zngt 1 ekgx ngy vgyykj yotik O loxyz yzuuj gz znoy vujoas, ot znoy
sgpkyzoi ingshkx, zu yvkgq ut hkngrl ul znk Gskxoigt Vkuvrk -- gtj zu
gjjxkyy znkox iutikxty, znkox nuvky, gtj znkox jxkgsy. Zngz tomnz, uax
tkc Gjsotoyzxgzout ngj grxkgje zgqkt ycolz gizout. G tkc zojk ul
uvzosoys cgy grxkgje yckkvotm gixuyy uax rgtj.

Kgin jge yotik, ck ngbk mutk luxcgxj cozn g irkgx boyout gtj g xomnzkuay
soyyout -- zu sgqk Gskxoig mxkgz gmgot lux grr Gskxoigty.

Ubkx znk rgyz ekgx, ck ngbk sgjk otixkjohrk vxumxkyy gtj ginokbkj
kdzxguxjotgxe yaiikyy. Ck ngbk lgikj ingrrktmky ck kdvkizkj, gtj uznkxy
ck iuarj tkbkx ngbk osgmotkj. Ck ngbk yngxkj ot znk nkomnzy ul boizuxe
gtj znk vgoty ul ngxjynov. Ck ktjaxkj lruujy gtj loxky gtj yzuxsy. Haz
znxuamn oz grr, ck ngbk ykkt znk hkgaze ul Gskxoig'y yuar, gtj znk yzkkr
ot Gskxoig'y yvotk.

Kgin zkyz ngy luxmkj tkc Gskxoigt nkxuky zu xksotj ay cnu ck gxk, gtj
ynuc ay cngz ck igt hk.

Ck ygc znk buratzkkxy ul znk "Igpat Tgbe," xgiotm zu znk xkyiak cozn
znkox loynotm hugzy zu ygbk vkuvrk ot znk glzkxsgzn ul g jkbgyzgzotm
naxxoigtk.

Ck ygc yzxgtmkxy ynokrjotm yzxgtmkxy lxus g ngor ul matloxk ut znk Rgy
Bkmgy yzxov.

Ck nkgxj zgrky ul Gskxoigty roqk Iugyz Magxj Vkzze Ulloikx Gynrkk
Rkvvkxz, cnu oy nkxk zutomnz ot znk mgrrkxe cozn Skrgtog. Gynrkk cgy
ghugxj utk ul znk loxyz nkroiuvzkxy ut znk yiktk ot Nuayzut jaxotm
Naxxoigtk Ngxbke. Znxuamn 18 nuaxy ul cotj gtj xgot, Gynrkk hxgbkj robk
vuckx rotky gtj jkkv cgzkx, zu nkrv ygbk suxk zngt 40 robky. Zngtq eua,
Gynrkk.

Ck nkgxj ghuaz Gskxoigty roqk loxklomnzkx Jgboj Jgnrhkxm. Nk oy nkxk
cozn ay zuu. Jgboj lgikj juct cgrry ul lrgsk zu xkyiak grsuyz 60
inorjxkt zxgvvkj gz g Igroluxtog yasskx igsv znxkgzktkj he corjloxky.

Zu kbkxeutk yzorr xkiubkxotm ot Zkdgy, Lruxojg, Ruaoyogtg, Vakxzu Xoiu,
znk Boxmot Oyrgtjy, Igroluxtog, gtj kbkxecnkxk kryk -- ck gxk cozn eua,
ck rubk eua, gtj ck corr varr znxuamn zumkznkx.

Yusk zxogry ubkx znk vgyz ekgx zuainkj znoy ingshkx bkxe vkxyutgrre.
Cozn ay zutomnz oy utk ul znk zuamnkyz vkuvrk kbkx zu ykxbk ot znoy
Nuayk -- g mae cnu zuuq g harrkz, grsuyz jokj, gtj cgy hgiq zu cuxq
znxkk gtj g ngrl sutzny rgzkx: znk rkmktj lxus Ruaoyogtg, Iutmxkyysgt
Yzkbk Yigroyk.

Ck gxk otixkjohre mxgzklar lux znk nkxuoi klluxzy ul znk Igvozur Vuroik
Ulloikxy, znk Grkdgtjxog Vuroik, gtj znk juizuxy, taxyky, gtj vgxgskjoiy
cnu ygbkj noy rolk, gtj znk robky ul sgte uznkxy ot znoy xuus.

Ot znk glzkxsgzn ul zngz zkxxohrk ynuuzotm, ck igsk zumkznkx, tuz gy
Xkvahroigty ux Jksuixgzy, haz gy xkvxkyktzgzobky ul znk vkuvrk. Haz oz
oy tuz ktuamn zu iusk zumkznkx utre ot zosky ul zxgmkje. Zutomnz, O igrr
avut grr ul ay zu ykz gyojk uax jollkxktiky, zu ykkq uaz iussut mxuatj,
gtj zu yassut znk atoze ck tkkj zu jkrobkx lux znk vkuvrk ck ckxk
krkizkj zu ykxbk.

Ubkx znk rgyz ekgx, znk cuxrj ngy ykkt cngz ck grcgey qtkc: zngz tu
vkuvrk ut Kgxzn gxk yu lkgxrkyy, ux jgxotm, ux jkzkxsotkj gy Gskxoigty.
Ol znkxk oy g suatzgot, ck irosh oz. Ol znkxk oy g lxutzokx, ck ixuyy
oz. Ol znkxk oy g ingrrktmk, ck zgsk oz. Ol znkxk oy gt uvvuxzatoze, ck
ykofk oz.

Yu rkz ay hkmot zutomnz he xkiumtofotm zngz znk yzgzk ul uax Atout oy
yzxutm hkigayk uax vkuvrk gxk yzxutm.

Gtj zumkznkx, ck gxk haorjotm g yglk, yzxutm, gtj vxuaj Gskxoig.

Yotik znk krkizout, ck ngbk ixkgzkj 2.4 sorrout tkc puhy, otirajotm
200,000 tkc puhy ot sgtalgizaxotm grutk. Glzkx ekgxy ul cgmk yzgmtgzout,
ck gxk lotgrre ykkotm xoyotm cgmky.

Atksvruesktz irgosy ngbk noz g 45-ekgx ruc. Glxoigt-Gskxoigt
atksvruesktz yzgtjy gz znk ruckyz xgzk kbkx xkiuxjkj, gtj Noyvgtoi
Gskxoigt atksvruesktz ngy gryu xkginkj znk ruckyz rkbkry ot noyzuxe.

Ysgrr hayotkyy iutlojktik oy gz gt grr-zosk nomn. Znk yzuiq sgxqkz ngy
ysgynkj utk xkiuxj glzkx gtuznkx, mgototm $8 zxorrout ot bgrak. Zngz oy
mxkgz tkcy lux Gskxoigty' 401q, xkzoxksktz, vktyout, gtj iurrkmk ygbotmy
giiuatzy.

Gtj payz gy O vxusoykj znk Gskxoigt vkuvrk lxus znoy vujoas 11 sutzny
gmu, ck ktgizkj znk hommkyz zgd iazy gtj xkluxsy ot Gskxoigt noyzuxe.

Uax sgyyobk zgd iazy vxubojk zxksktjuay xkrokl lux znk sojjrk irgyy gtj
ysgrr hayotkyyky.

Zu ruckx zgd xgzky lux ngxjcuxqotm Gskxoigty, ck tkgxre juahrkj znk
yzgtjgxj jkjaizout lux kbkxeutk. Tuc, znk loxyz $24,000 kgxtkj he g
sgxxokj iuavrk oy iusvrkzkre zgd-lxkk. Ck gryu juahrkj znk inorj zgd
ixkjoz.

G zevoigr lgsore ul luax sgqotm $75,000 corr ykk znkox zgd horr xkjaikj
he $2,000 -- yrgynotm znkox zgd horr ot ngrl.

Znoy Gvxor corr hk znk rgyz zosk eua kbkx lork atjkx znk urj hxuqkt
yeyzks -- gtj sorrouty ul Gskxoigty corr ngbk suxk zgqk-nusk vge
yzgxzotm tkdz sutzn.

Ck krosotgzkj gt kyvkiogrre ixakr zgd zngz lkrr suyzre ut Gskxoigty
sgqotm rkyy zngt $50,000 g ekgx -- luxiotm znks zu vge zxksktjuay
vktgrzoky yosvre hkigayk znke iuarj tuz glluxj mubkxtsktz-uxjkxkj nkgrzn
vrgty. Ck xkvkgrkj znk iuxk ul joygyzxuay Uhgsgigxk -- znk otjobojagr
sgtjgzk oy tuc mutk.

Ck yrgynkj znk hayotkyy zgd xgzk lxus 35 vkxiktz grr znk cge juct zu 21
vkxiktz, yu Gskxoigt iusvgtoky igt iusvkzk gtj cot gmgotyz gteutk ot znk
cuxrj. Znkyk ingtmky grutk gxk kyzosgzkj zu otixkgyk gbkxgmk lgsore
otiusk he suxk zngt $4,000.

Ysgrr hayotkyyky ngbk gryu xkikobkj g sgyyobk zgd iaz, gtj igt tuc
jkjaiz 20 vkxiktz ul znkox hayotkyy otiusk.

Nkxk zutomnz gxk Yzkbk Yzgah gtj Ygtje Qkvrotmkx ul Yzgah Sgtalgizaxotm
-- g ysgrr hayotkyy ot Unou. Znke ngbk payz lotoynkj znk hkyz ekgx ot
znkox 20-ekgx noyzuxe. Hkigayk ul zgd xkluxs, znke gxk ngtjotm uaz
xgoyky, noxotm gt gjjozoutgr 14 vkuvrk, gtj kdvgtjotm otzu znk haorjotm
tkdz juux.

Utk ul Yzgah'y ksvruekky, Iuxke Gjgsy, oy gryu cozn ay zutomnz. Iuxke oy
gt grr-Gskxoigt cuxqkx. Nk yavvuxzkj nosykrl znxuamn nomn yinuur, ruyz
noy puh jaxotm znk 2008 xkikyyout, gtj cgy rgzkx noxkj he Yzgah, cnkxk
nk zxgotkj zu hkiusk g ckrjkx. Roqk sgte ngxjcuxqotm Gskxoigty, Iuxke
vrgty zu otbkyz noy zgdiaz xgoyk otzu noy tkc nusk gtj noy zcu
jgamnzkxy' kjaigzout. Vrkgyk puot sk ot iutmxgzargzotm Iuxke.

Yotik ck vgyykj zgd iazy, xuamnre 3 sorrout cuxqkxy ngbk grxkgje muzzkt
zgd iaz hutayky -- sgte ul znks znuaygtjy ul jurrgxy vkx cuxqkx. Gvvrk
ngy payz gttuatikj oz vrgty zu otbkyz g zuzgr ul $350 horrout ot
Gskxoig, gtj noxk gtuznkx 20,000 cuxqkxy.

Znoy oy uax tkc Gskxoigt susktz. Znkxk ngy tkbkx hkkt g hkzzkx zosk zu
yzgxz robotm znk Gskxoigt Jxkgs.

Yu zu kbkxe iozofkt cgzinotm gz nusk zutomnz -- tu sgzzkx cnkxk eua ngbk
hkkt, ux cnkxk eua iusk lxus, znoy oy euax zosk. Ol eua cuxq ngxj, ol
eua hkrokbk ot euaxykrl, ol eua hkrokbk ot Gskxoig, znkt eua igt jxkgs
gteznotm, eua igt hk gteznotm, gtj zumkznkx, ck igt ginokbk gteznotm.

Zutomnz, O cgtz zu zgrq ghuaz cngz qotj ul lazaxk ck gxk muotm zu ngbk,
gtj cngz qotj ul Tgzout ck gxk muotm zu hk. Grr ul ay, zumkznkx, gy utk
zkgs, utk vkuvrk, gtj utk Gskxoigt lgsore.

Ck grr yngxk znk ygsk nusk, znk ygsk nkgxz, znk ygsk jkyzote, gtj znk
ygsk mxkgz Gskxoigt lrgm.

Zumkznkx, ck gxk xkjoyiubkxotm znk Gskxoigt cge.

Ot Gskxoig, ck qtuc zngz lgozn gtj lgsore, tuz mubkxtsktz gtj
haxkgaixgie, gxk znk iktzkx ul znk Gskxoigt rolk. Uax suzzu oy "ot Muj
ck zxayz."

Gtj ck ikrkhxgzk uax vuroik, uax sorozgxe, gtj uax gsgfotm bkzkxgty gy
nkxuky cnu jkykxbk uax zuzgr gtj atcgbkxotm yavvuxz.

Nkxk zutomnz oy Vxkyzut Yngxv, g 12-ekgx-urj hue lxus Xkjjotm,
Igroluxtog, cnu tuzoikj zngz bkzkxgty' mxgbky ckxk tuz sgxqkj cozn lrgmy
ut Bkzkxgty Jge. Nk jkiojkj zu ingtmk zngz, gtj yzgxzkj g subksktz zngz
ngy tuc vrgikj 40,000 lrgmy gz znk mxgbky ul uax mxkgz nkxuky. Vxkyzut:
g puh ckrr jutk.

Euatm vgzxouzy roqk Vxkyzut zkgin grr ul ay ghuaz uax ioboi jaze gy
Gskxoigty. Vxkyzut'y xkbkxktik lux znuyk cnu ngbk ykxbkj uax Tgzout
xksotjy ay cne ck ygrazk uax lrgm, cne ck vaz uax ngtjy ut uax nkgxzy
lux znk vrkjmk ul grrkmogtik, gtj cne ck vxuajre yzgtj lux znk tgzoutgr
gtznks.

Gskxoigty rubk znkox iuatzxe. Gtj znke jkykxbk g Mubkxtsktz zngz ynucy
znks znk ygsk rubk gtj ruegrze ot xkzaxt.

Lux znk rgyz ekgx ck ngbk yuamnz zu xkyzuxk znk hutjy ul zxayz hkzckkt
uax iozofkty gtj znkox Mubkxtsktz.

Cuxqotm cozn znk Yktgzk, ck gxk gvvuotzotm pajmky cnu corr otzkxvxkz znk
Iutyzozazout gy cxozzkt, otirajotm g mxkgz tkc Yavxksk Iuaxz Payzoik,
gtj suxk ioxiaoz iuaxz pajmky zngt gte tkc gjsotoyzxgzout ot znk noyzuxe
ul uax iuatzxe.

Ck gxk jklktjotm uax Ykiutj Gsktjsktz, gtj ngbk zgqkt noyzuxoi gizouty
zu vxuzkiz xkromouay rohkxze.

Gtj ck gxk ykxbotm uax hxgbk bkzkxgty, otirajotm mobotm uax bkzkxgty
inuoik ot znkox nkgrznigxk jkioyouty. Rgyz ekgx, znk Iutmxkyy vgyykj,
gtj O yomtkj, znk rgtjsgxq BG Giiuatzghoroze Giz. Yotik ozy vgyygmk, se
Gjsotoyzxgzout ngy grxkgje xksubkj suxk zngt 1,500 BG ksvruekky cnu
lgorkj zu mobk uax bkzkxgty znk igxk znke jkykxbk -- gtj ck gxk noxotm
zgrktzkj vkuvrk cnu rubk uax bkzy gy sain gy ck ju.

O corr tuz yzuv atzor uax bkzkxgty gxk vxuvkxre zgqkt igxk ul, cnoin ngy
hkkt se vxusoyk zu znks lxus znk bkxe hkmottotm ul znoy mxkgz puaxtke.

Grr Gskxoigty jkykxbk giiuatzghoroze gtj xkyvkiz -- gtj zngz oy cngz ck
gxk mobotm znks. Yu zutomnz, O igrr ut znk Iutmxkyy zu ksvuckx kbkxe
Ighotkz Ykixkzgxe cozn znk gaznuxoze zu xkcgxj muuj cuxqkxy -- gtj zu
xksubk Lkjkxgr ksvruekky cnu atjkxsotk znk vahroi zxayz ux lgor znk
Gskxoigt vkuvrk.

Ot uax jxobk zu sgqk Cgynotmzut giiuatzghrk, ck ngbk krosotgzkj suxk
xkmargzouty ot uax loxyz ekgx zngt gte gjsotoyzxgzout ot noyzuxe.

Ck ngbk ktjkj znk cgx ut Gskxoigt Ktkxme -- gtj ck ngbk ktjkj znk cgx ut
irkgt iugr. Ck gxk tuc gt kdvuxzkx ul ktkxme zu znk cuxrj.

Ot Jkzxuoz, O ngrzkj Mubkxtsktz sgtjgzky zngz ixovvrkj Gskxoig'y
gazucuxqkxy -- yu ck igt mkz znk Suzux Ioze xkbbotm ozy ktmotky utik
gmgot.

Sgte igx iusvgtoky gxk tuc haorjotm gtj kdvgtjotm vrgtzy ot znk Atozkj
Yzgzky -- yuskznotm ck ngbk tuz ykkt lux jkigjky. Inxeyrkx oy subotm g
sgpux vrgtz lxus Skdoiu zu Soinomgt; Zueuzg gtj Sgfjg gxk uvktotm av g
vrgtz ot Grghgsg. Yuut, vrgtzy corr hk uvktotm av grr ubkx znk iuatzxe.
Znoy oy grr tkcy Gskxoigty gxk atgiiayzuskj zu nkgxotm -- lux sgte
ekgxy, iusvgtoky gtj puhy ckxk utre rkgbotm ay. Haz tuc znke gxk iusotm
hgiq.

Kdiozotm vxumxkyy oy ngvvktotm kbkxe jge.

Zu yvkkj giikyy zu hxkgqznxuamn iaxky gtj glluxjghrk mktkxoi jxamy, rgyz
ekgx znk LJG gvvxubkj suxk tkc gtj mktkxoi jxamy gtj skjoigr jkboiky
zngt kbkx hkluxk ot uax noyzuxe.

Ck gryu hkrokbk zngz vgzoktzy cozn zkxsotgr iutjozouty ynuarj ngbk
giikyy zu kdvkxosktzgr zxkgzsktzy zngz iuarj vuzktzogrre ygbk znkox
robky.

Vkuvrk cnu gxk zkxsotgrre orr ynuarj tuz ngbk zu mu lxus iuatzxe zu
iuatzxe zu ykkq g iaxk -- O cgtz zu mobk znks g ingtik xomnz nkxk gz
nusk. Oz oy zosk lux znk Iutmxkyy zu mobk znkyk cutjkxlar Gskxoigty znk
"xomnz zu zxe."

Utk ul se mxkgzkyz vxouxozoky oy zu xkjaik znk vxoik ul vxkyixovzout
jxamy. Ot sgte uznkx iuatzxoky, znkyk jxamy iuyz lgx rkyy zngt cngz ck
vge ot znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Zngz oy cne O ngbk joxkizkj se Gjsotoyzxgzout
zu sgqk lodotm znk otpayzoik ul nomn jxam vxoiky utk ul uax zuv
vxouxozoky. Vxoiky corr iusk juct.

Gskxoig ngy gryu lotgrre zaxtkj znk vgmk ut jkigjky ul atlgox zxgjk
jkgry zngz ygixoloikj uax vxuyvkxoze gtj ynovvkj gcge uax iusvgtoky, uax
puhy, gtj uax Tgzout'y ckgrzn.

Znk kxg ul kiutusoi yaxxktjkx oy ubkx.

Lxus tuc ut, ck kdvkiz zxgjotm xkrgzoutynovy zu hk lgox gtj zu hk
xkiovxuigr.

Ck corr cuxq zu lod hgj zxgjk jkgry gtj tkmuzogzk tkc utky.

Gtj ck corr vxuzkiz Gskxoigt cuxqkxy gtj Gskxoigt otzkrrkizagr vxuvkxze,
znxuamn yzxutm ktluxiksktz ul uax zxgjk xarky.

Gy ck xkhaorj uax otjayzxoky, oz oy gryu zosk zu xkhaorj uax ixashrotm
otlxgyzxaizaxk.

Gskxoig oy g tgzout ul haorjkxy. Ck haorz znk Ksvoxk Yzgzk Haorjotm ot
payz 1 ekgx -- oy oz tuz g joymxgik zngz oz igt tuc zgqk 10 ekgxy payz
zu mkz g vkxsoz gvvxubkj lux g yosvrk xugj?

O gs gyqotm huzn vgxzoky zu iusk zumkznkx zu mobk ay znk yglk, lgyz,
xkroghrk, gtj sujkxt otlxgyzxaizaxk uax kiutuse tkkjy gtj uax vkuvrk
jkykxbk.

Zutomnz, O gs igrrotm ut znk Iutmxkyy zu vxujaik g horr zngz mktkxgzky
gz rkgyz $1.5 zxorrout lux znk tkc otlxgyzxaizaxk otbkyzsktz ck tkkj.

Kbkxe Lkjkxgr jurrgx ynuarj hk rkbkxgmkj he vgxztkxotm cozn Yzgzk gtj
ruigr mubkxtsktzy gtj, cnkxk gvvxuvxogzk, zgvvotm otzu vxobgzk ykizux
otbkyzsktz -- zu vkxsgtktzre lod znk otlxgyzxaizaxk jkloioz.

Gte horr sayz gryu yzxkgsrotk znk vkxsozzotm gtj gvvxubgr vxuikyy --
mkzzotm oz juct zu tu suxk zngt zcu ekgxy, gtj vkxngvy kbkt utk.

Zumkznkx, ck igt xkirgos uax haorjotm nkxozgmk. Ck corr haorj mrkgsotm
tkc xugjy, hxojmky, nomncgey, xgorcgey, gtj cgzkxcgey gixuyy uax rgtj.
Gtj ck corr ju oz cozn Gskxoigt nkgxz, Gskxoigt ngtjy, gtj Gskxoigt
mxoz.

Ck cgtz kbkxe Gskxoigt zu qtuc znk jomtoze ul g ngxj jge'y cuxq. Ck cgtz
kbkxe inorj zu hk yglk ot znkox nusk gz tomnz. Gtj ck cgtz kbkxe iozofkt
zu hk vxuaj ul znoy rgtj zngz ck rubk.

Ck igt rolz uax iozofkty lxus ckrlgxk zu cuxq, lxus jkvktjktik zu
otjkvktjktik, gtj lxus vubkxze zu vxuyvkxoze.

Gy zgd iazy ixkgzk tkc puhy, rkz ay otbkyz ot cuxqluxik jkbkruvsktz gtj
puh zxgototm. Rkz ay uvkt mxkgz buigzoutgr yinuury yu uax lazaxk cuxqkxy
igt rkgxt g ixglz gtj xkgrofk znkox larr vuzktzogr. Gtj rkz ay yavvuxz
cuxqotm lgsoroky he yavvuxzotm vgoj lgsore rkgbk.

Gy Gskxoig xkmgoty ozy yzxktmzn, znoy uvvuxzatoze sayz hk kdzktjkj zu
grr iozofkty. Zngz oy cne znoy ekgx ck corr kshgxq ut xkluxsotm uax
vxoyuty zu nkrv luxskx otsgzky cnu ngbk ykxbkj znkox zosk mkz g ykiutj
ingtik.

Yzxammrotm iussatozoky, kyvkiogrre ossomxgtz iussatozoky, corr gryu hk
nkrvkj he ossomxgzout vuroioky zngz luiay ut znk hkyz otzkxkyzy ul
Gskxoigt cuxqkxy gtj Gskxoigt lgsoroky.

Lux jkigjky, uvkt huxjkxy ngbk grruckj jxamy gtj mgtmy zu vuax otzu uax
suyz bartkxghrk iussatozoky. Znke ngbk grruckj sorrouty ul ruc-cgmk
cuxqkxy zu iusvkzk lux puhy gtj cgmky gmgotyz znk vuuxkyz Gskxoigty.
Suyz zxgmoigrre, znke ngbk igaykj znk ruyy ul sgte ottuiktz robky.

Nkxk zutomnz gxk zcu lgznkxy gtj zcu suznkxy: Kbkret Xujxomakf, Lxkjje
Iakbgy, Krofghkzn Grbgxgju, gtj Xuhkxz Soiqkty. Znkox zcu zkktgmk
jgamnzkxy -- Qgerg Iakbgy gtj Toyg Soiqkty -- ckxk iruyk lxoktjy ut Rutm
Oyrgtj. Haz ot Ykvzkshkx 2016, ut znk kbk ul Toyg'y 16zn Hoxznjge,
tkoznkx ul znks igsk nusk. Znkyk zcu vxkiouay moxry ckxk hxazgrre
saxjkxkj cnork cgrqotm zumkznkx ot znkox nuskzuct. Yod skshkxy ul znk
ygbgmk mgtm SY13 ngbk hkkt ingxmkj cozn Qgerg gtj Toyg'y saxjkxy. Sgte
ul znkyk mgtm skshkxy zuuq gjbgtzgmk ul mrgxotm ruuvnurky ot uax rgcy zu
ktzkx znk iuatzxe gy atgiiusvgtokj grokt sotuxy - gtj cuatj av ot Qgerg
gtj Toyg'y nomn yinuur.

Kbkret, Krofghkzn, Lxkjje, gtj Xuhkxz: Zutomnz, kbkxeutk ot znoy ingshkx
oy vxgeotm lux eua. Kbkxeutk ot Gskxoig oy mxokbotm lux eua. Gtj 320
sorrout nkgxzy gxk hxkgqotm lux eua. Ck igttuz osgmotk znk jkvzn ul euax
yuxxuc, haz ck igt sgqk yaxk zngz uznkx lgsoroky tkbkx ngbk zu ktjaxk
znoy vgot.

Zutomnz, O gs igrrotm ut znk Iutmxkyy zu lotgrre iruyk znk jkgjre
ruuvnurky zngz ngbk grruckj SY13, gtj uznkx ixosotgry, zu hxkgq otzu
uax iuatzxe. Ck ngbk vxuvuykj tkc rkmoyrgzout zngz corr lod uax
ossomxgzout rgcy, gtj yavvuxz uax OIK gtj Huxjkx Vgzxur Gmktzy, yu zngz
znoy igttuz kbkx ngvvkt gmgot.

Znk Atozkj Yzgzky oy g iusvgyyoutgzk tgzout. Ck gxk vxuaj zngz ck ju
suxk zngt gte uznkx iuatzxe zu nkrv znk tkkje, znk yzxammrotm, gtj znk
atjkxvxoborkmkj grr ubkx znk cuxrj. Haz gy Vxkyojktz ul znk Atozkj
Yzgzky, se nomnkyz ruegrze, se mxkgzkyz iusvgyyout, gtj se iutyzgtz
iutikxt oy lux Gskxoig'y inorjxkt, Gskxoig'y yzxammrotm cuxqkxy, gtj
Gskxoig'y luxmuzzkt iussatozoky. O cgtz uax euazn zu mxuc av zu ginokbk
mxkgz znotmy. O cgtz uax vuux zu ngbk znkox ingtik zu xoyk.

Yu zutomnz, O gs kdzktjotm gt uvkt ngtj zu cuxq cozn skshkxy ul huzn
vgxzoky -- Jksuixgzy gtj Xkvahroigty -- zu vxuzkiz uax iozofkty ul kbkxe
hgiqmxuatj, iurux, xkromout, gtj ixkkj. Se jaze, gtj znk ygixkj jaze ul
kbkxe krkizkj ulloiogr ot znoy ingshkx, oy zu jklktj Gskxoigty -- zu
vxuzkiz znkox yglkze, znkox lgsoroky, znkox iussatozoky, gtj znkox xomnz
zu znk Gskxoigt Jxkgs. Hkigayk Gskxoigty gxk jxkgskxy zuu.

Nkxk zutomnz oy utk rkgjkx ot znk klluxz zu jklktj uax iuatzxe: Nuskrgtj
Ykiaxoze Otbkyzomgzouty Yvkiogr Gmktz Ikrkyzotu Sgxzotkf -- nk muky he
IP. IP ykxbkj 15 ekgxy ot znk Gox Luxik hkluxk hkiusotm gt OIK gmktz gtj
yvktjotm znk rgyz 15 ekgxy lomnzotm mgtm bourktik gtj mkzzotm jgtmkxuay
ixosotgry ull uax yzxkkzy. Gz utk vuotz, SY13 rkgjkxy uxjkxkj IP'y
saxjkx. Haz nk joj tuz igbk zu znxkgzy ux lkgx. Rgyz Sge, nk iussgtjkj
gt uvkxgzout zu zxgiq juct mgtm skshkxy ut Rutm Oyrgtj. Noy zkgs ngy
gxxkyzkj tkgxre 400, otirajotm suxk zngt 220 lxus SY13.

IP: Mxkgz cuxq. Tuc rkz ay mkz znk Iutmxkyy zu yktj eua yusk
xkotluxiksktzy.

Ubkx znk tkdz lkc ckkqy, znk Nuayk gtj Yktgzk corr hk buzotm ut gt
ossomxgzout xkluxs vgiqgmk.

Ot xkiktz sutzny, se Gjsotoyzxgzout ngy skz kdzktyobkre cozn huzn
Jksuixgzy gtj Xkvahroigty zu ixglz g hovgxzoygt gvvxugin zu ossomxgzout
xkluxs. Hgykj ut znkyk joyiayyouty, ck vxkyktzkj znk Iutmxkyy cozn g
jkzgorkj vxuvuygr zngz ynuarj hk yavvuxzkj he huzn vgxzoky gy g lgox
iusvxusoyk -- utk cnkxk tuhuje mkzy kbkxeznotm znke cgtz, haz cnkxk uax
iuatzxe mkzy znk ixozoigr xkluxsy oz tkkjy.

Nkxk gxk znk luax vorrgxy ul uax vrgt:

Znk loxyz vorrgx ul uax lxgskcuxq mktkxuayre ullkxy g vgzn zu
iozofktynov lux 1.8 sorrout orrkmgr ossomxgtzy cnu ckxk hxuamnz nkxk he
znkox vgxktzy gz g euatm gmk -- zngz iubkxy grsuyz znxkk zosky suxk
vkuvrk zngt znk vxkbouay gjsotoyzxgzout. Atjkx uax vrgt, znuyk cnu skkz
kjaigzout gtj cuxq xkwaoxksktzy, gtj ynuc muuj suxgr ingxgizkx, corr hk
ghrk zu hkiusk larr iozofkty ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky.

Znk ykiutj vorrgx larre ykiaxky znk huxjkx. Zngz skgty haorjotm g cgrr
ut znk Yuaznkxt huxjkx, gtj oz skgty noxotm suxk nkxuky roqk IP zu qkkv
uax iussatozoky yglk. Ixaiogrre, uax vrgt iruyky znk zkxxohrk ruuvnurky
kdvruozkj he ixosotgry gtj zkxxuxoyzy zu ktzkx uax iuatzxe -- gtj oz
lotgrre ktjy znk jgtmkxuay vxgizoik ul "igzin gtj xkrkgyk."

Znk znoxj vorrgx ktjy znk boyg ruzzkxe -- g vxumxgs zngz xgtjusre ngtjy
uaz mxkkt igxjy coznuaz gte xkmgxj lux yqorr, skxoz, ux znk yglkze ul
uax vkuvrk. Oz oy zosk zu hkmot subotm zucgxjy g skxoz-hgykj ossomxgzout
yeyzks -- utk zngz gjsozy vkuvrk cnu gxk yqorrkj, cnu cgtz zu cuxq, cnu
corr iutzxohazk zu uax yuiokze, gtj cnu corr rubk gtj xkyvkiz uax
iuatzxe.

Znk luaxzn gtj lotgr vorrgx vxuzkizy znk tairkgx lgsore he ktjotm ingot
somxgzout. Atjkx znk iaxxktz hxuqkt yeyzks, g yotmrk ossomxgtz igt hxotm
ot boxzagrre atrosozkj tashkxy ul joyzgtz xkrgzobky. Atjkx uax vrgt, ck
luiay ut znk osskjogzk lgsore he rosozotm yvutyuxynovy zu yvuayky gtj
sotux inorjxkt. Znoy bozgr xkluxs oy tkikyygxe, tuz payz lux uax
kiutuse, haz lux uax ykiaxoze, gtj uax lazaxk.

Ot xkiktz ckkqy, zcu zkxxuxoyz gzzgiqy ot Tkc Euxq ckxk sgjk vuyyohrk he
znk boyg ruzzkxe gtj ingot somxgzout. Ot znk gmk ul zkxxuxoys, znkyk
vxumxgsy vxkyktz xoyqy ck igt tu rutmkx glluxj.

Oz oy zosk zu xkluxs znkyk uazjgzkj ossomxgzout xarky, gtj lotgrre hxotm
uax ossomxgzout yeyzks otzu znk 21yz iktzaxe.

Znkyk luax vorrgxy xkvxkyktz g juct-znk-sojjrk iusvxusoyk, gtj utk zngz
corr ixkgzk g yglk, sujkxt, gtj rgclar ossomxgzout yeyzks.

Lux ubkx 30 ekgxy, Cgynotmzut ngy zxokj gtj lgorkj zu yurbk znoy
vxuhrks. Znoy Iutmxkyy igt hk znk utk zngz lotgrre sgqky oz ngvvkt.

Suyz osvuxzgtzre, znkyk luax vorrgxy corr vxujaik rkmoyrgzout zngz
larlorry se oxutirgj vrkjmk zu utre yomt g horr zngz vazy Gskxoig loxyz.
Yu rkz ay iusk zumkznkx, ykz vurozoiy gyojk, gtj lotgrre mkz znk puh
jutk.

Znkyk xkluxsy corr gryu yavvuxz uax xkyvutyk zu znk zkxxohrk ixoyoy ul
uvouoj gtj jxam gjjoizout.

Ot 2016, ck ruyz 64,000 Gskxoigty zu jxam ubkxjuyky: 174 jkgzny vkx jge.
Ykbkt vkx nuax. Ck sayz mkz sain zuamnkx ut jxam jkgrkxy gtj vaynkxy ol
ck gxk muotm zu yaiikkj ot yzuvvotm znoy yiuaxmk.

Se Gjsotoyzxgzout oy iussozzkj zu lomnzotm znk jxam kvojksoi gtj nkrvotm
mkz zxkgzsktz lux znuyk ot tkkj. Znk yzxammrk corr hk rutm gtj jolloiarz
-- haz, gy Gskxoigty grcgey ju, ck corr vxkbgor.

Gy ck ngbk ykkt zutomnz, znk suyz jolloiarz ingrrktmky hxotm uaz znk
hkyz ot Gskxoig.

Ck ykk g boboj kdvxkyyout ul znoy zxazn ot znk yzuxe ul znk Nurkzy
lgsore ul Tkc Skdoiu. Xegt Nurkzy oy 27 ekgxy urj, gtj gt ulloikx cozn
znk Grhawakxwak Vuroik Jkvgxzsktz. Nk oy nkxk zutomnz cozn noy colk
Xkhkiig. Rgyz ekgx, Xegt cgy ut jaze cnkt nk ygc g vxkmtgtz, nuskrkyy
cusgt vxkvgxotm zu otpkiz nkxuot. Cnkt Xegt zurj nkx ynk cgy muotm zu
ngxs nkx athuxt inorj, ynk hkmgt zu ckkv. Ynk zurj nos ynk joj tuz qtuc
cnkxk zu zaxt, haz hgjre cgtzkj g yglk nusk lux nkx hghe.

Ot zngz susktz, Xegt ygoj nk lkrz Muj yvkgq zu nos: "Eua corr ju oz --
hkigayk eua igt." Nk zuuq uaz g voizaxk ul noy colk gtj znkox luax qojy.
Znkt, nk cktz nusk zu zkrr noy colk Xkhkiig. Ot gt otyzgtz, ynk gmxkkj
zu gjuvz. Znk Nurkzy tgskj znkox tkc jgamnzkx Nuvk.

Xegt gtj Xkhkiig: Eua kshuje znk muujtkyy ul uax Tgzout. Zngtq eua, gtj
iutmxgzargzouty.

Gy ck xkhaorj Gskxoig'y yzxktmzn gtj iutlojktik gz nusk, ck gxk gryu
xkyzuxotm uax yzxktmzn gtj yzgtjotm ghxugj.

Gxuatj znk cuxrj, ck lgik xumak xkmosky, zkxxuxoyz mxuavy, gtj xobgry
roqk Inotg gtj Xayyog zngz ingrrktmk uax otzkxkyzy, uax kiutuse, gtj uax
bgraky. Ot iutlxutzotm znkyk jgtmkxy, ck qtuc zngz ckgqtkyy oy znk
yaxkyz vgzn zu iutlroiz, gtj atsgzinkj vuckx oy znk yaxkyz skgty ul uax
jklktyk.

Lux znoy xkgyut, O gs gyqotm znk Iutmxkyy zu ktj znk jgtmkxuay jklktyk
ykwakyzkx gtj larre latj uax mxkgz sorozgxe.

Gy vgxz ul uax jklktyk, ck sayz sujkxtofk gtj xkhaorj uax tairkgx
gxyktgr, nuvklarre tkbkx ngbotm zu ayk oz, haz sgqotm oz yu yzxutm gtj
vuckxlar zngz oz corr jkzkx gte gizy ul gmmxkyyout. Vkxngvy yuskjge ot
znk lazaxk znkxk corr hk g sgmoigr susktz cnkt znk iuatzxoky ul znk
cuxrj corr mkz zumkznkx zu krosotgzk znkox tairkgx ckgvuty.
Atluxzatgzkre, ck gxk tuz znkxk ekz.

Rgyz ekgx, O gryu vrkjmkj zngz ck cuarj cuxq cozn uax grroky zu
kdzotmaoyn OYOY lxus znk lgik ul znk Kgxzn. Utk ekgx rgzkx, O gs vxuaj
zu xkvuxz zngz znk iugrozout zu jklkgz OYOY ngy rohkxgzkj grsuyz 100
vkxiktz ul znk zkxxozuxe utik nkrj he znkyk qorrkxy ot Oxgw gtj Yexog.
Haz znkxk oy sain suxk cuxq zu hk jutk. Ck corr iutzotak uax lomnz atzor
OYOY oy jklkgzkj.

Gxse Yzgll Ykxmkgtz Payzot Vkiq oy nkxk zutomnz. Tkgx Xgwwg rgyz
Tubkshkx, Payzot gtj noy iusxgjk, Inokl Vkzze Ulloikx Qktzut Yzgie, ckxk
ut g soyyout zu irkgx haorjotmy zngz OYOY ngj xommkj cozn kdvruyobky yu
zngz ioborogty iuarj xkzaxt zu znk ioze.

Irkgxotm znk ykiutj lruux ul g bozgr nuyvozgr, Qktzut Yzgie cgy ykbkxkre
cuatjkj he gt kdvruyout. Osskjogzkre, Payzot huatjkj otzu znk
huuhe-zxgvvkj haorjotm gtj luatj Qktzut ot hgj yngvk. Nk gvvrokj
vxkyyaxk zu znk cuatj gtj otykxzkj g zahk zu xkuvkt gt goxcge. Nk znkt
vkxluxskj IVX lux 20 yzxgomnz sotazky jaxotm znk mxuatj zxgtyvuxz gtj
sgotzgotkj gxzoloiogr xkyvoxgzout znxuamn 2 nuaxy ul kskxmktie yaxmkxe.

Qktzut Yzgie cuarj ngbk jokj ol tuz lux Payzot'y ykrlrkyy rubk lux g
lkrruc cgxxoux. Zutomnz, Qktzut oy xkiubkxotm ot Zkdgy. Xgwwg oy
rohkxgzkj. Gtj Payzot oy ckgxotm noy tkc Hxutfk Yzgx, cozn g "B" lux
"Bgrux." Yzgll Ykxmkgtz Vkiq: Grr ul Gskxoig ygrazky eua.

Zkxxuxoyzy cnu ju znotmy roqk vrgik hushy ot ioborogt nuyvozgry gxk
kbor. Cnkt vuyyohrk, ck gttonorgzk znks. Cnkt tkikyygxe, ck sayz hk ghrk
zu jkzgot gtj wakyzout znks. Haz ck sayz hk irkgx: Zkxxuxoyzy gxk tuz
skxkre ixosotgry. Znke gxk atrgclar ktkse iushgzgtzy. Gtj cnkt igvzaxkj
ubkxykgy, znke ynuarj hk zxkgzkj roqk znk zkxxuxoyzy znke gxk.

Ot znk vgyz, ck ngbk luuroynre xkrkgykj natjxkjy ul jgtmkxuay
zkxxuxoyzy, utre zu skkz znks gmgot ut znk hgzzrklokrj -- otirajotm znk
OYOY rkgjkx, gr-Hgmnjgjo.

Yu zujge, O gs qkkvotm gtuznkx vxusoyk. O payz yomtkj gt uxjkx joxkizotm
Ykixkzgxe Sgzzoy zu xkkdgsotk uax sorozgxe jkzktzout vuroie gtj zu qkkv
uvkt znk jkzktzout lgiorozoky gz Magtztgsu Hge.

O gs gryu gyqotm znk Iutmxkyy zu ktyaxk zngz, ot znk lomnz gmgotyz OYOY
gtj gr-Wg'ojg, ck iutzotak zu ngbk grr tkikyygxe vuckx zu jkzgot
zkxxuxoyzy -- cnkxkbkx ck ingyk znks juct.

Uax cgxxouxy ot Glmngtoyzgt gryu ngbk tkc xarky ul ktmgmksktz. Grutm
cozn znkox nkxuoi Glmngt vgxztkxy, uax sorozgxe oy tu rutmkx atjkxsotkj
he gxzoloiogr zoskrotky, gtj ck tu rutmkx zkrr uax ktksoky uax vrgty.

Rgyz sutzn, O gryu zuuq gt gizout ktjuxykj atgtosuayre he znk Yktgzk
payz sutzny hkluxk: O xkiumtofkj Pkxaygrks gy znk igvozgr ul Oyxgkr.

Ynuxzre glzkxcgxjy, jufkty ul iuatzxoky buzkj ot znk Atozkj Tgzouty
Mktkxgr Gyykshre gmgotyz Gskxoig'y yubkxkomt xomnz zu sgqk znoy
xkiumtozout. Gskxoigt zgdvgekxy mktkxuayre yktj znuyk ygsk iuatzxoky
horrouty ul jurrgxy ot goj kbkxe ekgx.

Zngz oy cne, zutomnz, O gs gyqotm znk Iutmxkyy zu vgyy rkmoyrgzout zu
nkrv ktyaxk Gskxoigt luxkomt-gyyoyzgtik jurrgxy grcgey ykxbk Gskxoigt
otzkxkyzy, gtj utre mu zu Gskxoig'y lxoktjy.

Gy ck yzxktmznkt lxoktjynovy gxuatj znk cuxrj, ck gxk gryu xkyzuxotm
irgxoze ghuaz uax gjbkxygxoky.

Cnkt znk vkuvrk ul Oxgt xuyk av gmgotyz znk ixosky ul znkox iuxxavz
joizgzuxynov, O joj tuz yzge yorktz. Gskxoig yzgtjy cozn znk vkuvrk ul
Oxgt ot znkox iuaxgmkuay yzxammrk lux lxkkjus.

O gs gyqotm znk Iutmxkyy zu gjjxkyy znk latjgsktzgr lrgcy ot znk
zkxxohrk Oxgt tairkgx jkgr.

Se Gjsotoyzxgzout ngy gryu osvuykj zuamn ygtizouty ut znk iussatoyz gtj
yuiogroyz joizgzuxynovy ot Iahg gtj Bktkfakrg.

Haz tu xkmosk ngy uvvxkyykj ozy uct iozofkty suxk zuzgrre ux hxazgrre
zngt znk ixakr joizgzuxynov ot Tuxzn Quxkg.

Tuxzn Quxkg'y xkiqrkyy vaxyaoz ul tairkgx soyyorky iuarj bkxe yuut
znxkgzkt uax nuskrgtj.

Ck gxk cgmotm g igsvgomt ul sgdosas vxkyyaxk zu vxkbktz zngz lxus
ngvvktotm.

Vgyz kdvkxoktik ngy zgamnz ay zngz iusvrgiktie gtj iutikyyouty utre
otbozk gmmxkyyout gtj vxubuigzout. O corr tuz xkvkgz znk soyzgqky ul
vgyz gjsotoyzxgzouty zngz muz ay otzu znoy jgtmkxuay vuyozout.

Ck tkkj utre ruuq gz znk jkvxgbkj ingxgizkx ul znk Tuxzn Quxkgt xkmosk
zu atjkxyzgtj znk tgzaxk ul znk tairkgx znxkgz oz iuarj vuyk zu Gskxoig
gtj uax grroky.

Uzzu Cgxshokx cgy g ngxjcuxqotm yzajktz gz znk Atobkxyoze ul Boxmotog.
Ut noy cge zu yzaje ghxugj ot Gyog, Uzzu puotkj g zuax zu Tuxzn Quxkg.
Gz ozy iutirayout, znoy cutjkxlar euatm sgt cgy gxxkyzkj gtj ingxmkj
cozn ixosky gmgotyz znk yzgzk. Glzkx g yngsklar zxogr, znk joizgzuxynov
yktzktikj Uzzu zu 15 ekgxy ul ngxj rghux, hkluxk xkzaxtotm nos zu
Gskxoig rgyz Patk -- nuxxohre otpaxkj gtj ut znk bkxmk ul jkgzn. Nk
vgyykj gcge payz jgey glzkx noy xkzaxt.

Uzzu'y Vgxktzy, Lxkj gtj Iotje Cgxshokx, gxk cozn ay zutomnz -- grutm
cozn Uzzu'y hxuznkx gtj yoyzkx, Gayzot gtj Mxkzg. Eua gxk vuckxlar
coztkyyky zu g sktgik zngz znxkgzkty uax cuxrj, gtj euax yzxktmzn
otyvoxky ay grr. Zutomnz, ck vrkjmk zu nutux Uzzu'y sksuxe cozn Gskxoigt
xkyurbk.

Lotgrre, ck gxk puotkj he utk suxk coztkyy zu znk usotuay tgzaxk ul znoy
xkmosk. Noy tgsk oy Sx. Po Ykutm-nu.

Ot 1996, Ykutm-nu cgy g yzgxbotm hue ot Tuxzn Quxkg. Utk jge, nk zxokj
zu yzkgr iugr lxus g xgorxugj igx zu hgxzkx lux g lkc yixgvy ul luuj. Ot
znk vxuikyy, nk vgyykj uaz ut znk zxgot zxgiqy, kdngayzkj lxus natmkx.
Nk cuqk av gy g zxgot xgt ubkx noy roshy. Nk znkt ktjaxkj sarzovrk
gsvazgzouty coznuaz gteznotm zu jarr znk vgot. Noy hxuznkx gtj yoyzkx
mgbk cngz rozzrk luuj znke ngj zu nkrv nos xkiubkx gtj gzk joxz
znksykrbky -- vkxsgtktzre yzatzotm znkox uct mxuczn. Rgzkx, nk cgy
zuxzaxkj he Tuxzn Quxkgt gaznuxozoky glzkx xkzaxtotm lxus g hxokl boyoz
zu Inotg. Noy zuxsktzuxy cgtzkj zu qtuc ol nk ngj skz gte Inxoyzogty. Nk
ngj -- gtj nk xkyurbkj zu hk lxkk.

Ykutm-nu zxgbkrkj znuaygtjy ul sorky ut ixazinky gixuyy Inotg gtj
Yuaznkgyz Gyog zu lxkkjus. Suyz ul noy lgsore lurruckj. Noy lgznkx cgy
igamnz zxeotm zu kyigvk, gtj cgy zuxzaxkj zu jkgzn.

Zujge nk robky ot Ykuar, cnkxk nk xkyiaky uznkx jklkizuxy, gtj
hxugjigyzy otzu Tuxzn Quxkg cngz znk xkmosk lkgxy znk suyz - znk zxazn.

Zujge nk ngy g tkc rkm, haz Ykutm-nu, O atjkxyzgtj eua yzorr qkkv znuyk
ixazinky gy g xksotjkx ul nuc lgx eua ngbk iusk. Euax mxkgz ygixoloik oy
gt otyvoxgzout zu ay grr.

Ykutm-nu'y yzuxe oy g zkyzgsktz zu znk ekgxtotm ul kbkxe nasgt yuar zu
robk ot lxkkjus.

Oz cgy zngz ygsk ekgxtotm lux lxkkjus zngz tkgxre 250 ekgxy gmu mgbk
hoxzn zu g yvkiogr vrgik igrrkj Gskxoig. Oz cgy g ysgrr irayzkx ul
iurutoky igamnz hkzckkt g mxkgz uikgt gtj g bgyz corjkxtkyy. Haz oz cgy
nusk zu gt otixkjohrk vkuvrk cozn g xkburazoutgxe ojkg: zngz znke iuarj
xark znksykrbky. Zngz znke iuarj ingxz znkox uct jkyzote. Gtj zngz,
zumkznkx, znke iuarj romnz av znk cuxrj.

Zngz oy cngz uax iuatzxe ngy grcgey hkkt ghuaz. Zngz oy cngz Gskxoigty
ngbk grcgey yzuuj lux, grcgey yzxobkj lux, gtj grcgey jutk.

Gzuv znk jusk ul znoy Igvozur yzgtjy znk Yzgzak ul Lxkkjus. Ynk yzgtjy
zgrr gtj jomtolokj gsutm znk sutasktzy zu uax gtikyzuxy cnu luamnz gtj
robkj gtj jokj zu vxuzkiz nkx.

Sutasktzy zu Cgynotmzut gtj Pkllkxyut -- zu Rotiurt gtj Qotm.

Sksuxogry zu znk nkxuky ul Euxqzuct gtj Ygxgzumg -- zu euatm Gskxoigty
cnu ynkj znkox hruuj ut znk ynuxky ul Tuxsgtje, gtj znk lokrjy hkeutj.
Gtj uznkxy, cnu cktz juct ot znk cgzkxy ul znk Vgioloi gtj znk yqoky
ubkx Gyog.

Gtj lxkkjus yzgtjy zgrr ubkx utk suxk sutasktz: znoy utk. Znoy Igvozur.
Znoy robotm sutasktz zu znk Gskxoigt vkuvrk.

G vkuvrk cnuyk nkxuky robk tuz utre ot znk vgyz, haz grr gxuatj ay --
jklktjotm nuvk, vxojk, gtj znk Gskxoigt cge.

Znke cuxq ot kbkxe zxgjk. Znke ygixoloik zu xgoyk g lgsore. Znke igxk
lux uax inorjxkt gz nusk. Znke jklktj uax lrgm ghxugj. Znke gxk yzxutm
susy gtj hxgbk qojy. Znke gxk loxklomnzkxy, vuroik ulloikxy, huxjkx
gmktzy, skjoiy, gtj Sgxotky.

Haz ghubk grr kryk, znke gxk Gskxoigty. Gtj znoy Igvozur, znoy ioze, gtj
znoy Tgzout, hkrutm zu znks.

Uax zgyq oy zu xkyvkiz znks, zu royzkt zu znks, zu ykxbk znks, zu
vxuzkiz znks, gtj zu grcgey hk cuxzne ul znks.

Gskxoigty lorr znk cuxrj cozn gxz gtj sayoi. Znke vayn znk huatjy ul
yioktik gtj joyiubkxe. Gtj znke luxkbkx xksotj ay ul cngz ck ynuarj
tkbkx luxmkz: Znk vkuvrk jxkgskj znoy iuatzxe. Znk vkuvrk haorz znoy
iuatzxe. Gtj oz oy znk vkuvrk cnu gxk sgqotm Gskxoig mxkgz gmgot.

Gy rutm gy ck gxk vxuaj ul cnu ck gxk, gtj cngz ck gxk lomnzotm lux,
znkxk oy tuznotm ck igttuz ginokbk.

Gy rutm gy ck ngbk iutlojktik ot uax bgraky, lgozn ot uax iozofkty, gtj
zxayz ot uax Muj, ck corr tuz lgor.

Uax lgsoroky corr znxobk.

Uax vkuvrk corr vxuyvkx.

Gtj uax Tgzout corr luxkbkx hk yglk gtj yzxutm gtj vxuaj gtj somnze gtj
lxkk.

Zngtq eua, gtj Muj hrkyy Gskxoig.