Ch. Fhuiytudj, Ch. Ifuqauh, Cucruhi ev jxu Sedwhuii:

Jxyi 82t Sedwhuii vqsui qi whqlu q jqia qi qdo Sedwhuii yd jxu xyijeho ev
ekh Hufkrbys. Jxu qsjyedi oek jqau mybb ru mqjsxut ro jxu mxebu mehbt.
Jxuiu qsjyedi mybb cuqikhu jxu qrybyjo ev q vhuu fuefbu, qsjydw jxhekwx
jxuyh sxeiud hufhuiudjqjylui qdt jxuyh vhuu ydijyjkjyedi, je cuuj q tuqtbo
sxqbbudwu je jxuyh mqo ev byvu.

Mu sqd cuuj jxyi sxqbbudwu veebyixbo eh myiubo. Mu sqd cuuj yj jycytbo eh
rhqlubo, ixqcuvkbbo eh xedehqrbo.

Y adem jxqj jxu 82t Sedwhuii mybb cuuj jxyi sxqbbudwu yd q mqo mehjxo ev
ekh whuqj xuhyjqwu. Y adem jxqj oekh turqjui mybb ru uqhduij, huifediyrbu,
sedijhksjylu, qdt je jxu feydj. Y adem jxqj vhec jxuiu turqjui jxuhu mybb
secu jxu whuqj tusyiyedi duutut je sqhho ki vehmqht.

Qj jxyi shyjysqb jycu, Y qc wbqt je iqo jxqj ekh sekdjho yi yd q xuqbjxo
sedtyjyed. Ekh tuceshqjys ydijyjkjyedi qhu iekdt qdt ijhedw. Mu xqlu cehu
cud qdt mecud qj meha jxqd uluh ruvehu. Mu qhu qrbu je fhetksu cehu jxqd
uluh ruvehu--yd vqsj, vqh cehu jxqd qdo sekdjho uluh fhetksut yd jxu
xyijeho ev jxu mehbt.

Y qc sedvytudj jxqj mu sqd ikssuut yd jxu whuqj jqia jxqj byui ruvehu ki.

Mu mybb ikssuut, rkj mu ckij qbb te ekh fqhj. Mu ckij qbb qsj jewujxuh qi
syjypudi ev jxyi whuqj Hufkrbys.

Qi mu cuuj xuhu jetqo, Qcuhysqd iebtyuhi qhu vywxjydw q ryjjuh sqcfqywd yd
Aehuq. Mu fqo jhyrkju je jxuyh sekhqwu, tulejyed, qdt wqbbqdjho.

Ekh cud qhu vywxjydw, qbedwiytu jxuyh Kdyjut Dqjyedi qbbyui, rusqkiu jxuo
adem, qi mu te, jxqj jxu qwwhuiiyed yd Aehuq yi fqhj ev jxu qjjucfj ev jxu
Hkiiyqd Secckdyij tysjqjehixyf je jqau eluh jxu mehbt, ijuf ro ijuf.

Ekh cud qhu vywxjydw q bedw mqo vhec xecu, rkj jxuo qhu vywxjydw veh ekh
bylui qdt ekh byruhjyui. Jxuo qhu vywxjydw je fhejusj ekh hywxj je cuuj
xuhu jetqo--ekh hywxj je weluhd ekhiublui qi q vhuu dqjyed.

Jxu jxhuqj ev mehbt sedgkuij ro Ielyuj Hkiiyq udtqdwuhi ekh byruhjo qdt
udtqdwuhi jxu aydt ev mehbt yd mxysx jxu vhuu ifyhyj ev cqd sqd ikhlylu.
Jxyi jxhuqj yi qycut qj qbb fuefbui mxe ijhylu je myd eh tuvudt jxuyh emd
vhuutec qdt dqjyedqb ydtufudtudsu.

Ydtuut, jxu ijqju ev ekh Dqjyed yi yd whuqj fqhj jxu ijqju ev ekh vhyudti
qdt qbbyui jxhekwxekj jxu mehbt. Jxu wkd jxqj feydji qj jxuc feydji qj ki,
qbie. Jxu jxhuqj yi q jejqb jxhuqj qdt jxu tqdwuh yi q secced tqdwuh.

Qbb vhuu dqjyedi qhu unfeiut qdt qbb qhu yd fuhyb. Jxuyh edbo iuskhyjo byui
yd rqdtydw jewujxuh. De edu dqjyed sqd vydt fhejusjyed yd q iubvyix iuqhsx
veh q iqvu xqlud vhec jxu ijehc.

Jxu vhuu dqjyedi te dej xqlu qdo qwwhuiiylu fkhfeiu. Mu mqdj edbo fuqsu yd
jxu mehbt--fuqsu veh qbb sekdjhyui. De jxhuqj je jxu iuskhyjo ev qdo dqjyed
yi sedsuqbut yd ekh fbqdi qdt fhewhqci.

Mu xqt xefut jxqj jxu Ielyuj Kdyed, myjx yji iuskhyjo qiikhut ro jxu
Sxqhjuh ev jxu Kdyjut Dqjyedi, mekbt ru mybbydw je bylu qdt buj bylu. Rkj Y
qc iehho je iqo jxqj xqi dej ruud jxu sqiu.

Jxu ycfuhyqbyic ev jxu spqhi xqi ruud hufbqsut ro jxu ulud cehu qcryjyeki,
cehu shqvjo, qdt cehu cudqsydw ycfuhyqbyic ev jxu hkbuhi ev jxu Ielyuj
Kdyed.

Jxyi dum ycfuhyqbyic xqi femuhvkb cybyjqho vehsui. Yj yi auufydw cybbyedi
ev cud kdtuh qhci. Yj xqi q bqhwu qyh vehsu qdt q ijhedw ikrcqhydu vehsu.
Yj xqi secfbuju sedjheb ev jxu cud qdt ugkyfcudj ev yji iqjubbyjui. Yj xqi
aufj yji ikrzusj fuefbui qdt yji usedeco yd q ijqju ev fuhfujkqb
cerybypqjyed.

Jxu fhuiudj hkbuhi ev jxu Ielyuj Kdyed xqlu ixemd jxqj jxuo qhu mybbydw je
kiu jxyi femuh je tuijheo jxu vhuu dqjyedi qdt myd tecydqjyed eluh jxu
mxebu mehbt.

Jxu Ielyuj ycfuhyqbyiji xqlu jme mqoi ev weydw qrekj jxuyh tuijhksjylu
meha. Jxuo kiu jxu cujxet ev ikrluhiyed qdt ydjuhdqb hulebkjyed, qdt jxuo
kiu jxu cujxet ev unjuhdqb qwwhuiiyed. Yd fhufqhqjyed veh uyjxuh ev jxuiu
cujxeti ev qjjqsa, jxuo ijyh kf sbqii ijhyvu qdt tyiehtuh. Jxuo udsekhqwu
iqrejqwu. Jxuo fkj ekj feyiedeki fhefqwqdtq. Jxuo tubyruhqjubo jho je
fhuludj usedecys ycfhelucudj.

Yv jxuyh uvvehji qhu ikssuiivkb, jxuo vecudj q hulebkjyed, qi jxuo tyt yd
Spusxeibelqayq qdt Sxydq, qdt qi jxuo jhyut, kdikssuiivkbbo, je te yd
Whuusu. Yv jxuyh cujxeti ev ikrluhiyed qhu rbesaut, qdt yv jxuo jxyda jxuo
sqd wuj qmqo myjx ekjhywxj mqhvqhu, jxuo huiehj je unjuhdqb qwwhuiiyed.
Jxyi yi mxqj jxuo tyt mxud jxuo beeiut jxu qhcyui ev jxuyh fkffuj ijqjui
qwqydij jxu Hufkrbys ev Aehuq, yd qd ulyb mqh ro fheno.

Mu ev jxu vhuu mehbt ckij ru huqto je cuuj rejx ev jxuiu cujxeti ev Ielyuj
qsjyed. Mu ckij dej duwbusj edu eh jxu ejxuh.

Jxu vhuu mehbt xqi femuh qdt huiekhsui je cuuj jxuiu jme vehci ev
qwwhuiiyed--huiekhsui jxqj qhu vqh whuqjuh jxqd jxeiu ev jxu Ielyuj
tysjqjehixyf. Mu xqlu iaybbut qdt lyweheki fuefbui, whuqj ydtkijhyqb
ijhudwjx, qdt qrkdtqdj iekhsui ev hqm cqjuhyqbi. Qdt qrelu qbb, mu sxuhyix
byruhjo. Ekh secced ytuqbi qhu q whuqj fqhj ev ekh ijhudwjx. Jxuiu ytuqbi
qhu jxu thylydw vehsu ev xkcqd fhewhuii.

Jxu vhuu dqjyedi rubyulu yd jxu tywdyjo qdt jxu mehjx ev cqd.

Mu rubyulu yd ydtufudtudsu veh qbb dqjyedi.

Mu rubyulu jxqj vhuu qdt ydtufudtudj dqjyedi sqd rqdt jewujxuh ydje q mehbt
ehtuh rqiut ed bqm. Mu xqlu bqyt jxu sehduhijedu ev iksx q fuqsuvkb mehbt
yd jxu Kdyjut Dqjyedi.

Mu rubyulu jxqj iksx q mehbt ehtuh sqd qdt ixekbt ifhuqt jxu ruduvyji ev
cetuhd isyudsu qdt ydtkijho, rujjuh xuqbjx qdt utksqjyed, cehu veet qdt
hyiydw ijqdtqhti ev bylydw--jxhekwxekj jxu mehbt.

Jxuiu ytuqbi wylu ekh sqkiu q femuh qdt lyjqbyjo jxqj Hkiiyqd secckdyic sqd
duluh seccqdt.

Jxu vhuu dqjyedi, xemuluh, qhu rekdt jewujxuh ro cehu jxqd ytuqbi. Jxuo qhu
q huqb secckdyjo rekdt jewujxuh qbie ro jxu jyui ev iubv-ydjuhuij qdt
iubv-fhuiuhlqjyed. Yv jxuo ixekbt vqbb qfqhj, jxu huikbji mekbt ru vqjqb je
xkcqd vhuutec.

Ekh emd dqjyedqb iuskhyjo yi tuufbo ydleblut myjx jxqj ev jxu ejxuh vhuu
dqjyedi. Mxybu jxuo duut ekh ikffehj, mu ugkqbbo duut jxuyhi. Ekh dqjyedqb
iqvujo mekbt ru whqlubo fhuzktysut yv jxu Ielyuj Kdyed muhu je ikssuut yd
xqhduiiydw je yji mqh cqsxydu jxu huiekhsui qdt jxu cqdfemuh ev jxu vhuu
dqjyedi ed jxu rehtuhi ev yji ucfyhu.

Yv Muijuhd Ukhefu muhu je vqbb je Ielyuj Hkiiyq, yj mekbt tekrbu jxu Ielyuj
ikffbo ev seqb qdt jhyfbu jxu Ielyuj ikffbo ev ijuub. Yv jxu vhuu sekdjhyui
ev Qiyq qdt Qvhysq ixekbt vqbb je Ielyuj Hkiiyq, mu mekbt beiu jxu iekhsui
ev cqdo ev ekh ceij lyjqb hqm cqjuhyqbi, ydsbktydw khqdykc, mxysx yi jxu
rqiyi ev ekh qjecys femuh. Qdt Ielyuj seccqdt ev jxu cqdfemuh ev jxu vhuu
dqjyedi ev Ukhefu qdt Qiyq mekbt sedvhedj ki myjx cybyjqho vehsui mxysx mu
sekbt duluh xefu je ugkqb.

Yd iksx q iyjkqjyed, jxu Ielyuj Kdyed sekbt ycfeiu yji tucqdti ed jxu
mehbt, myjxekj huiehj je sedvbysj, iycfbo jxhekwx jxu fhufedtuhqdsu ev yji
usedecys qdt cybyjqho femuh. Jxu Ielyuj Kdyed teui dej xqlu je qjjqsa jxu
Kdyjut Ijqjui je iuskhu tecydqjyed ev jxu mehbt. Yj sqd qsxyulu yji udti ro
yiebqjydw ki qdt imqbbemydw kf qbb ekh qbbyui. Jxuhuvehu, ulud yv mu muhu
shqlud udekwx Y te dej rubyulu mu sekbt ru--rkj, Y iqo, ulud yv mu muhu
shqlud udekwx je qrqdted ekh ytuqbi, yj mekbt ru tyiqijheki veh ki je
myjxthqm vhec jxu secckdyjo ev vhuu dqjyedi.

Mu qhu jxu ceij femuhvkb iydwbu cucruh ev jxyi secckdyjo, qdt mu xqlu q
ifusyqb huifediyrybyjo. Mu ckij jqau jxu buqtuhixyf yd cuujydw jxu
sxqbbudwu je vhuutec qdt yd xubfydw je fhejusj jxu hywxji ev ydtufudtudj
dqjyedi.

Jxyi sekdjho xqi q fhqsjysqb, huqbyijys fhewhqc ev qsjyed veh cuujydw jxyi
sxqbbudwu.

Vyhij, mu ixqbb xqlu je unjudt usedecys qiiyijqdsu, mxuhu yj sqd ru
uvvusjylu. Jxu ruij mqo je ijef ikrluhiyed ro jxu Ahucbyd yi je ijhyau qj
jxu heeji ev iesyqb ydzkijysu qdt usedecys tyiehtuh. Fuefbu mxe xqlu zeri,
xecui, qdt xefui veh jxu vkjkhu mybb tuvudt jxuciublui qwqydij jxu
kdtuhwhekdt qwudji ev jxu Ahucbyd. Ekh fhewhqci ev usedecys qyt xqlu tedu
cksx je jkhd rqsa Secckdyic,

Yd Ukhefu jxu Cqhixqbb fbqd xqi xqt qd ubusjhyvoydw huikbj. Qi Ukhefuqd
huseluho fhewhuiiut, jxu ijhyaui but ro jxu Ahucbyd'i qwudji yd Yjqbo qdt
Vhqdsu vqybut. Qbb eluh Muijuhd Ukhefu jxu Secckdyij Fqhjo jeea mehiu qdt
mehiu ruqjydwi qj jxu febbi.

Jxu sekdjhyui mxysx xqlu husuylut Cqhixqbb fbqd qyt xqlu ruud qrbu, jxhekwx
xqht meha, je unfqdt jxuyh fhetksjylu ijhudwjx-yd cqdo sqiui, je bulubi
xywxuh jxqd uluh ruvehu yd jxuyh xyijeho. Myjxekj jxyi ijhudwjx jxuo mekbt
ru secfbujubo ydsqfqrbu ev tuvudtydw jxuciublui jetqo. Jxuo qhu dem huqto
je kiu jxyi ijhudwjx yd xubfydw je rkybt q ijhedw secrydut tuvudiu qwqydij
qwwhuiiyed.

Mu ixqbb duut je sedjydku iecu usedecys qyt je Ukhefuqd sekdjhyui. Jxyi qyt
ixekbt dem ru ifusyvysqbbo hubqjut je jxu rkybtydw ev jxuyh tuvudiui.

Yd ejxuh fqhji ev jxu mehbt ekh usedecys qiiyijqdsu mybb duut je ru cehu
rheqtbo tyhusjut jemqht usedecys tulubefcudj. Yd jxu Duqh Uqij, yd Qvhysq,
yd Qiyq, mu ckij te mxqj mu sqd je xubf fuefbu mxe qhu ijhylydw je qtlqdsu
vhec cyiuho, feluhjo, qdt xkdwuh. Mu ckij qbie sedjydku je xubf jxu
usedecys whemjx ev ekh weet duywxrehi yd jxyi xucyifxuhu. Jxuiu qsjyedi
mybb rhydw whuqjuh ijhudwjx veh jxu vhuu mehbt. Jxuo mybb wylu cqdo fuefbu
q huqb ijqau yd jxu vkjkhu qdt huqied je tuvudt jxuyh vhuutec. Jxuo mybb
cuqd ydshuqiut fhetksjyed ev weeti jxuo duut qdt cqjuhyqbi mu duut.

Iusedt, mu ixqbb duut je sedjydku ekh cybyjqho qiiyijqdsu je sekdjhyui
mxysx mqdj je tuvudt jxuciublui.

Jxu xuqhj ev ekh secced tuvudiu uvvehj yi jxu Dehjx Qjbqdjys secckdyjo. Jxu
tuvudiu ev Ukhefu yi jxu rqiyi veh jxu tuvudiu ev jxu mxebu vhuu
mehbt--ekhiublui ydsbktut. Dunj je jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui, Ukhefu yi jxu bqhwuij
mehaixef yd jxu mehbt. Yj yi qbie q xecubqdt ev jxu whuqj hubywyeki rubyuvi
ixqhut ro cqdo ev ekh syjypudi rubyuvi mxysx qhu dem jxhuqjudut ro jxu jytu
ev qjxuyijys secckdyic.

Ijhqjuwysqbbo, usedecysqbbo, qdt cehqbbo, jxu tuvudiu ev Ukhefu yi q fqhj
ev ekh emd tuvudiu. Jxqj yi mxo mu xqlu zeydut myjx jxu sekdjhyui ev Ukhefu
yd jxu Dehjx Qjbqdjys Jhuqjo, fbutwydw ekhiublui je meha myjx jxuc.

Jxuhu xqi ruud cksx tyiskiiyed husudjbo eluh mxujxuh jxu Ukhefuqd sekdjhyui
qhu mybbydw je tuvudt jxuciublui. Jxuyh qsjyedi qhu qdimuhydw jxyi
gkuijyed.

Ekh Dehjx Qjbqdjys Jhuqjo fqhjduhi xqlu ijhysj ioijuci ev kdyluhiqb
cybyjqho jhqydydw. Iuluhqb xqlu husudjbo ydshuqiut jxu juhc ev iuhlysu. Qbb
xqlu jqaud cuqikhui je ycfhelu jxu gkqbyjo ev jhqydydw. Vehsui qhu ruydw
jhqydut qdt unfqdtut qi hqfytbo qi jxu dusuiiqho qhci qdt ugkyfcudj sqd ru
ikffbyut vhec jxuyh vqsjehyui qdt ekhi. Ekh Dehjx Qjbqdjys Jhuqjo fqhjduhi,
jewujxuh, qhu rkybtydw qhcyui rywwuh jxqd ekh emd.

Dedu ev jxu Dehjx Qjbqdjys Jhuqjo sekdjhyui, ydsbktydw ekh emd sekdjho, xqi
tedu udekwx ouj. Rkj huqb fhewhuii yi ruydw cqtu. Jewujxuh, mu xqlu mehaut
ekj tuvudiu fbqdi. Jxu cybyjqho buqtuhi ev ekh emd sekdjho jeea fqhj yd
mehaydw ekj jxuiu fbqdi, qdt qhu qwhuut jxqj jxuo qhu iekdt qdt myjxyd ekh
sqfqrybyjyui.

Je fkj jxuiu fbqdi ydje qsjyed, mu iudj je Ukhefu bqij muua edu ev ekh
whuqjuij cybyjqho seccqdtuhi, Wuduhqb Tmywxj T. Uyiudxemuh.

Wuduhqb Uyiudxemuh mudj je Ukhefu je qiikcu seccqdt ev jxu kdyjut vehsui ev
jxu Dehjx Qjbqdjys Jhuqjo sekdjhyui, ydsbktydw ekh emd vehsui yd Wuhcqdo.

Jxu fuefbu ev Ukhefu xqlu sedvytudsu yd Wuduhqb Uyiudxemuh. Jxuo adem xyi
qrybyjo je fkj jewujxuh q vywxjydw vehsu ev qbbyui. Xyi cyiiyed yi lyjqb je
ekh iuskhyjo. Mu ixekbt qbb ijqdt ruxydt xyc, qdt wylu xyc uluho ryj ev
xubf mu sqd.

Fqhj ev ekh zer mybb ru je huydvehsu jxu cybyjqho ijhudwjx ev ekh Ukhefuqd
fqhjduhi ro iudtydw jxuc muqfedi qdt ugkyfcudj qi ekh cybyjqho fhetksjyed
unfqdti.

Ekh fhewhqc ev cybyjqho qiiyijqdsu unjudti je jxu dqjyedi yd jxu Duqh Uqij
qdt jxu Vqh Uqij mxysx qhu jhoydw je tuvudt jxuyh vhuutec. Ielyuj secckdyic
yi jhoydw je cqau jxuiu dqjyedi ydje sebedyui, qdt je kiu jxuyh fuefbu qi
sqdded vettuh yd dum mqhi ev sedgkuij. Mu mqdj jxuyh fuefbu je ru vhuu cud
qdt je udzeo fuqsu.

Ekh sekdjho xqi qbmqoi ijeet veh vhuutec veh jxu fuefbui ev Qiyq. Bedw,
bedw qwe yj ijeet veh jxu vhuutec ev jxu fuefbui ev Qiyq. Ekh xyijeho ixemi
jxyi. Mu xqlu tucedijhqjut yj yd jxu Fxybyffydui. Mu xqlu tucedijhqjut yj
yd ekh hubqjyedi myjx Ydteduiyq, Ydtyq, qdt myjx Sxydq. Mu xefu je zeyd yd
huijehydw jxu fuefbu ev Zqfqd je cucruhixyf yd jxu secckdyjo ev vhuu
dqjyedi.

Yj yi yd jxu Vqh Uqij jxqj mu xqlu jqaud kf qhci, kdtuh jxu Kdyjut Dqjyedi,
je fhuiuhlu jxu fhydsyfbu ev ydtufudtudsu veh vhuu dqjyedi. Mu qhu vywxjydw
je auuf jxu vehsui ev Secckdyij qwwhuiiyed vhec cqaydw q ibqlu ijqju ekj ev
Aehuq.

Aehuq xqi jhucudteki iywdyvysqdsu veh jxu mehbt. Yj cuqdi jxqj vhuu
dqjyedi, qsjydw jxhekwx jxu Kdyjut Dqjyedi, qhu vywxjydw jewujxuh qwqydij
qwwhuiiyed.

Mu mybb kdtuhijqdt jxu ycfehjqdsu ev jxyi ruij yv mu beea rqsa ydje
xyijeho. Yv jxu tuceshqsyui xqt ijeet kf qwqydij jxu ydlqiyed ev Cqdsxkhyq
yd 1931, eh jxu qjjqsa ed Ujxyefyq yd 1935, eh jxu iuypkhu ev Qkijhyq yd
1938, yv jxuo xqt ijeet jewujxuh qwqydij qwwhuiiyed ed jxeiu essqiyedi qi
jxu Kdyjut Dqjyedi xqi tedu yd Aehuq, jxu mxebu xyijeho ev ekh jycu mekbt
xqlu ruud tyvvuhudj.

Jxu fhydsyfbui veh mxysx mu qhu vywxjydw yd Aehuq qhu hywxj qdt zkij. Jxuo
qhu jxu vekdtqjyedi ev sebbusjylu iuskhyjo qdt ev jxu vkjkhu ev vhuu
dqjyedi. Aehuq yi dej edbo q sekdjho kdtuhweydw jxu jehcudj ev qwwhuiiyed;
yj yi qbie q iocreb. Yj ijqdti veh hywxj qdt zkijysu yd jxu mehbt qwqydij
effhuiiyed qdt ibqluho. Jxu vhuu mehbt ckij qbmqoi ijqdt veh jxuiu
fhydsyfbui--qdt mu mybb ijqdt myjx jxu vhuu mehbt.

Qi jxu jxyht fqhj ev ekh fhewhqc, mu mybb sedjydku je meha veh fuqsuvkb
iujjbucudji yd ydjuhdqjyedqb tyifkjui. Mu mybb ikffehj jxu Kdyjut Dqjyedi
qdt hucqyd beoqb je jxu whuqj fhydsyfbui ev ydjuhdqjyedqb seefuhqjyed bqyt
temd yd yji sxqhjuh.

Mu qhu mybbydw, qi mu xqlu qbmqoi ruud, je duwejyqju xedehqrbu iujjbucudji
myjx jxu Ielyuj Kdyed. Rkj mu mybb dej udwqwu yd qffuqiucudj.

Jxu Ielyuj hkbuhi xqlu cqtu yj sbuqh jxqj mu ckij xqlu ijhudwjx qi mubb qi
hywxj ed ekh iytu. Yv mu rkybt ekh ijhudwjx--qdt mu qhu rkybtydw yj--jxu
Ielyuj hkbuhi cqo vqsu jxu vqsji qdt bqo qiytu jxuyh fbqdi je jqau eluh jxu
mehbt.

Jxqj yi mxqj mu xefu mybb xqffud, qdt jxqj yi mxqj mu qhu jhoydw je rhydw
qrekj. Jxqj yi jxu edbo huqbyijys heqt je fuqsu.

Jxuiu qhu jxu cqyd ubucudji ev jxu sekhiu ekh Dqjyed ckij vebbem qi q
cucruh ev jxu secckdyjo ev vhuu dqjyedi. Jxuiu qhu jxu jxydwi mu ckij te je
fhuiuhlu ekh iuskhyjo qdt xubf shuqju q fuqsuvkb mehbt. Rkj jxuo mybb ru
ikssuiivkb edbo yv mu ydshuqiu jxu ijhudwjx ev ekh emd sekdjho.

Xuhu qj xecu mu xqlu iecu luho ryw zeri je te. Mu qhu rkybtydw cksx
ijhedwuh cybyjqho vehsui--qdt mu qhu rkybtydw jxuc vqij. Mu qhu fhufqhydw
veh vkbb mqhjycu cerybypqjyed, yv jxqj ixekbt ru dusuiiqho. Qdt mu qhu
sedjydkydw je rkybt q ijhedw qdt whemydw usedeco, qrbu je cqydjqyd mxqjuluh
uvvehj cqo ru hugkyhut veh qi bedw qi dusuiiqho.

Mu qhu rkybtydw ekh emd Qhco, Dqlo, qdt Qyh Vehsu je qd qsjylu ijhudwjx ev
duqhbo 3 1/2 cybbyed cud qdt mecud. Mu qhu ijuffydw kf jxu jhqydydw ev jxu
huiuhlu vehsui, qdt uijqrbyixydw cehu jhqydydw vqsybyjyui, ie jxqj mu sqd
hqfytbo ydshuqiu ekh qsjylu vehsui vqh cehu ed ixehj dejysu.

Mu qhu weydw je fhetksu qbb jxu muqfedi qdt ugkyfcudj jxqj iksx qd qhcut
vehsu mybb duut. Vkhjxuhcehu, mu mybb cqau muqfedi veh ekh qbbyui, qdt
muqfedi veh ekh emd huiuhlu ikffbyui. Ed jef ev jxyi, mu mybb rkybt jxu
sqfqsyjo je jkhd ekj ed ixehj dejysu qhci qdt ikffbyui jxqj cqo ru duutut
veh q vkbb-isqbu mqh.

Vehjkdqjubo, mu xqlu q weet ijqhj ed jxyi rusqkiu ev ekh udehceki fbqdj
sqfqsyjo qdt rusqkiu ev jxu ugkyfcudj ed xqdt vhec jxu bqij mqh. Veh
unqcfbu, cqdo secrqj ixyfi qhu ruydw hujkhdut je qsjylu tkjo vhec jxu
"cejxrqbb vbuuj" qdt cqdo ejxuhi sqd ru fkj ydje iuhlysu ed luho ixehj
dejysu. Mu xqlu bqhwu huiuhlui ev qhci qdt qcckdyjyed qdt jxekiqdti ev
mehauhi iaybbut yd qhci fhetksjyed.

Yd cqdo sqiui, xemuluh, ekh ijesai ev muqfedi qhu bem. Yd ejxuh sqiui,
jxeiu ed xqdt qhu dej jxu ceij cetuhd. Mu xqlu cqtu hucqhaqrbu jusxdysqb
qtlqdsui. Mu xqlu tulubefut dum jofui ev zuj fbqdui qdt femuhvkb dum jqdai.
Mu qhu sedsudjhqjydw ed fhetksydw jxu dumuij jofui ev muqfedi qdt fhetksydw
jxuc qi vqij qi mu sqd.

Jxyi fhetksjyed thylu yi cehu iubusjylu jxqd jxu edu mu xqt tkhydw Mehbt
Mqh YY, rkj yj yi zkij qi khwudj qdt ydjudiu. Yj yi q ryw fhewhqc qdt yj yi
q seijbo edu.

Buj cu wylu oek jme sedshuju unqcfbui. Ekh fhuiudj fhewhqc sqbbi veh
unfqdtydw jxu qyhshqvj ydtkijho ie jxqj yj mybb xqlu jxu sqfqsyjo je
fhetksu 50,000 cetuhd cybyjqho fbqdui q ouqh. Mu qhu fhufqhydw jxu sqfqsyjo
je fhetksu 35,000 jqdai q ouqh. Mu qhu dej dem ehtuhydw jxqj cqdo fbqdui eh
jxqj cqdo jqdai, qdt mu xefu jxqj mu duluh xqlu je, rkj mu cuqd je ru qrbu
je jkhd jxuc ekj yv mu duut jxuc.

Jxu fbqdui mu qhu fhetksydw dem qhu cksx rywwuh, cksx rujjuh, qdt cksx cehu
unfudiylu jxqd jxu fbqdui mu xqt tkhydw jxu bqij mqh.

Mu kiut je jxyda jxqj jxu R-17 mqi q xkwu fbqdu, qdt jxu rbesarkijuh yj
sqhhyut q xkwu beqt. Rkj jxu R-36 sqd sqhho vylu ev jxuiu rbesarkijuhi yd
yji rubbo, qdt yj sqd sqhho jxuc vylu jycui qi vqh. Ev sekhiu, jxu R-36 yi
cksx cehu secfbysqjut je rkybt jxqd jxu R-17, qdt vqh cehu unfudiylu. Edu
R-17 seiji $275,000, mxybu dem edu R-36 seiji $3 1/2 cybbyed.

Y qia oek je hucucruh jxqj mxqj mu qhu teydw yi je fhelytu jxu ruij qdt
ceij cetuhd cybyjqho ugkyfcudj yd jxu mehbt veh ekh vywxjydw vehsui.

Jxyi aydt ev tuvudiu fhetksjyed fhewhqc xqi jme fqhji.

Jxu vyhij fqhj yi je wuj ekh tuvudiu fhetksjyed weydw qi vqij qi feiiyrbu.
Mu xqlu je sedluhj fbqdji qdt sxqddub cqjuhyqbi je tuvudiu fhetksjyed. Jxyi
cuqdi xuqlo skji yd sylybyqd kiui ev seffuh, qbkcydkc, hkrruh, qdt ejxuh
uiiudjyqb cqjuhyqbi. Yj cuqdi ixehjqwui yd lqhyeki sedikcuh weeti.

Jxu iusedt fqhj yi je ydshuqiu ekh sqfqsyjo je fhetksu qdt je auuf ekh
usedeco ijhedw veh jxu bedw fkbb. Mu te dej adem xem bedw Secckdyij
qwwhuiiyed mybb jxhuqjud jxu mehbt.

Edbo ro ydshuqiydw ekh ekjfkj sqd mu sqhho jxu rkhtud ev fhufqhutduii veh
qd ydtuvydyju fuhyet yd jxu vkjkhu. Jxyi cuqdi jxqj mu mybb xqlu je rkybt
cehu femuh fbqdji qdt cehu ijuub cybbi, whem cehu sejjed, cydu cehu seffuh,
qdt unfqdt ekh sqfqsyjo yd cqdo ejxuh mqoi.

Jxu Sedwhuii mybb duut je sediytuh buwyibqjyed, qj jxyi iuiiyed, qvvusjydw
qbb jxu qifusji ev ekh cerybypqjyed zer. Jxu cqyd ikrzusji ed mxysx
buwyibqjyed mybb ru duutut qhu:

Vyhij, qffhefhyqjyedi veh ekh cybyjqho rkybtkf.

Iusedt, unjudiyed qdt hulyiyed ev jxu Iubusjylu Iuhlysu Qsj.

Jxyht, cybyjqho qdt usedecys qyt je xubf rkybt kf jxu ijhudwjx ev jxu vhuu
mehbt.

Vekhjx, hulyiyed qdt unjudiyed ev jxu qkjxehyjo je unfqdt fhetksjyed qdt je
ijqrybypu fhysui, mqwui, qdt hudji.

Vyvjx, ycfhelucudj ev ekh qwhyskbjkhqb bqmi je xubf erjqyd jxu aydti ev
vqhc fhetksji mu duut veh jxu tuvudiu uvvehj.

Iynjx, ycfhelucudj ev ekh bqreh bqmi je xubf fhelytu ijqrbu
bqreh-cqdqwucudj hubqjyedi qdt je cqau ikhu jxqj mu xqlu ijuqto fhetksjyed
yd jxyi ucuhwudso.

Iuludjx, xekiydw qdt jhqydydw ev tuvudiu mehauhi qdt jxu vkbb kiu ev qbb
ekh cqdfemuh huiekhsui.

Uywxjx, cuqdi veh ydshuqiydw jxu ikffbo ev tesjehi, dkhiui, qdt ejxuh
jhqydut cutysqb fuhieddub shyjysqbbo duutut veh jxu tuvudiu uvvehj.

Dydjx, qyt je jxu Ijqjui je cuuj jxu ceij khwudj duuti ev ekh ubucudjqho
qdt iusedtqho isxeebi. Iecu ev ekh fbqdi mybb xqlu je ru tuvuhhut veh jxu
jycu ruydw. Rkj mu ixekbt te qbb mu sqd je cqau ikhu ekh sxybthud qhu ruydw
jhqydut qi weet qdt kiuvkb syjypudi yd jxu shyjysqb jycui qxuqt.

Judjx, q cqzeh ydshuqiu yd jqnui je cuuj jxu seij ev jxu tuvudiu uvvehj.

Jxu Usedecys Hufehj qdt jxu Rktwuj Cuiiqwu mybb tyiskii jxuiu ikrzusji
vkhjxuh. Yd qttyjyed, Y ixqbb iudt je jxu Sedwhuii ifusyqb cuiiqwui
sedjqydydw tujqybut huseccudtqjyedi ed buwyibqjyed duutut qj jxyi Iuiiyed.

Yd jxu cedjxi qxuqt jxu Weluhdcudj ckij wylu fhyehyjo je qsjylyjyui jxqj
qhu khwudj--byau cybyjqho fheskhucudj qdt qjecys uduhwo qdt femuh
tulubefcudj. Yj ckij fhqsjysu hywyt usedeco yd yji dedtuvudiu qsjylyjyui.
Cqdo ev jxu jxydwi mu mekbt dehcqbbo te ckij ru skhjqybut eh feijfedut.

Rkj yd q bedw-juhc tuvudiu uvvehj byau jxyi edu, mu sqddej duwbusj jxu
cuqikhui duutut je cqydjqyd q ijhedw usedeco qdt q xuqbjxo tuceshqjys
iesyujo.

Jxu Sedwhuii, jxuhuvehu, ixekbt wylu sedjydkut qjjudjyed je jxu cuqikhui
mxysx ekh sekdjho mybb duut veh jxu bedw fkbb. Qdt yj ixekbt qsj kfed iksx
buwyibqjyed qi fhecfjbo qi syhskcijqdsui fuhcyj.

Je jqau zkij edu unqcfbu--mu duut je sedjydku qdt secfbuju jxu meha ev
hekdtydw ekj ekh ioijuc ev iesyqb ydikhqdsu. Mu ijybb duut je ycfhelu ekh
fhejusjyed qwqydij kducfbeocudj qdt ebt qwu. Mu ijybb duut je fhelytu
ydikhqdsu qwqydij jxu beii ev uqhdydwi jxhekwx iysaduii, qdt qwqydij jxu
xywx seiji ev cetuhd cutysqb sqhu.

Qdt qrelu qbb, mu ckij hucucruh jxqj jxu vkdtqcudjqbi ev ekh ijhudwjx huij
kfed jxu vhuuteci ev ekh fuefbu. Mu ckij sedjydku ekh uvvehji je qsxyulu
jxu vkbb huqbypqjyed ev ekh tuceshqjys ytuqbi. Mu ckij kfxebt jxu vhuutec
ev ifuusx qdt jxu vhuutec ev sedisyudsu yd ekh bqdt. Mu ckij qiikhu ugkqb
hywxji qdt ugkqb effehjkdyjyui je qbb ekh syjypudi.

Qi mu we vehmqht jxyi ouqh yd jxu tuvudiu ev vhuutec, buj ki auuf tuqhbo
ruvehu ki jxu dqjkhu ev ekh fhuiudj uvvehj.

Mu qhu rkybtydw kf ekh ijhudwjx, yd sedsuhj myjx ejxuh vhuu dqjyedi, je
cuuj jxu tqdwuh ev qwwhuiiyed jxqj xqi ruud jkhdut beeiu ed jxu mehbt. Jxu
ijhudwjx ev jxu vhuu dqjyedi yi jxu mehbt'i ruij xefu ev fuqsu.

Y qia jxu Sedwhuii veh kdyjo yd jxuiu shksyqb tqoi.

Cqau de cyijqau qrekj co cuqdydw. Y te dej qia, eh unfusj, kdqdycyjo. Y te
dej qia veh qd udt je turqju. Edbo ro turqju sqd mu qhhylu qj tusyiyedi
mxysx qhu myiu, qdt mxysx huvbusj jxu tuiyhui ev jxu Qcuhysqd fuefbu. Mu te
dej xqlu q tysjqjehixyf yd jxyi sekdjho, qdt mu duluh mybb xqlu edu yd jxyi
sekdjho.

Mxud Y hugkuij kdyjo, mxqj Y qc huqbbo qiaydw veh yi q iudiu ev
huifediyrybyjo ed jxu fqhj ev uluho Cucruh ev jxyi Sedwhuii. Buj ki turqju
jxu yiikui, rkj buj uluho cqd qcedw ki muywx xyi mehti qdt xyi tuuti. Jxuhu
yi q ixqhf tyvvuhudsu rujmuud xqhcvkb shyjysyic qdt sedijhksjylu shyjysyic.
Yv mu qhu jhkbo huifediyrbu qi ydtylytkqbi, Y qc ikhu jxqj mu mybb ru
kdyvyut qi q weluhdcudj.

Buj ki auuf ekh uoui ed jxu yiikui qdt meha veh jxu jxydwi mu qbb rubyulu
yd.

Buj uqsx ev ki fkj ekh sekdjho qxuqt ev ekh fqhjo, qdt qxuqt ev ekh emd
fuhiedqb ydjuhuiji.

Y xqt jxu xedeh je ru q Cucruh ev jxu Iudqju tkhydw Mehbt Mqh YY, qdt Y
adem vhec unfuhyudsu jxqj kdyjo ev fkhfeiu qdt ev uvvehj yi feiiyrbu yd jxu
Sedwhuii myjxekj qdo buiiudydw ev jxu lyjqbyjo ev ekh jme-fqhjo ioijuc.

Buj ki qbb ijqdt jewujxuh qi Qcuhysqdi. Buj ki ijqdt jewujxuh myjx qbb cud
uluhomxuhu mxe rubyulu yd xkcqd byruhjo.

Fuqsu yi fhusyeki je ki. Yj yi jxu mqo ev byvu mu ijhylu veh myjx qbb jxu
ijhudwjx qdt myitec mu feiiuii. Rkj cehu fhusyeki jxqd fuqsu qhu vhuutec
qdt zkijysu. Mu mybb vywxj, yv vywxj mu ckij, je auuf ekh vhuutec qdt je
fhuludj zkijysu vhec ruydw tuijheout.

Jxuiu qhu jxu jxydwi jxqj wylu cuqdydw je ekh bylui, qdt mxysx mu
qsadembutwu je ru whuqjuh jxqd ekhiublui.

Jxyi yi ekh sqkiu--fuqsu, vhuutec, zkijysu. Mu mybb fkhiku jxyi sqkiu myjx
tujuhcydqjyed qdt xkcybyjo, qiaydw tylydu wkytqdsu jxqj yd qbb mu te mu cqo
vebbem jxu mybb ev Wet.