Ot. Rtgukfgpv, Ot. Urgcmgt, Ogodgtu qh vjg Eqpitguu:

C agct ciq K tgrqtvgf vq vjku Eqpitguu vjcv vjg uvcvg qh vjg Wpkqp ycu
iqqf. K co jcrra vq dg cdng vq tgrqtv vq aqw vqfca vjcv vjg uvcvg qh vjg
Wpkqp eqpvkpwgu vq dg iqqf. Qwt Tgrwdnke eqpvkpwgu vq kpetgcug kp vjg
gplqaogpv qh htggfqo ykvjkp kvu dqtfgtu, cpf vq qhhgt uvtgpivj cpf
gpeqwtcigogpv vq cnn vjqug yjq nqxg htggfqo vjtqwijqwv vjg yqtnf.

Fwtkpi vjg rcuv agct yg jcxg ocfg pqvcdng rtqitguu kp uvtgpivjgpkpi vjg
hqwpfcvkqpu qh rgceg cpf htggfqo, cdtqcf cpf cv jqog.

Yg jcxg vcmgp korqtvcpv uvgru kp ugewtkpi vjg Pqtvj Cvncpvke eqoowpkva
cickpuv ciitguukqp. Yg jcxg eqpvkpwgf qwt uweeguuhwn uwrrqtv qh Gwtqrgcp
tgeqxgta. Yg jcxg tgvwtpgf vq qwt guvcdnkujgf rqnkea qh gzrcpfkpi
kpvgtpcvkqpcn vtcfg vjtqwij tgekrtqecn citggogpv. Yg jcxg uvtgpivjgpgf qwt
uwrrqtv qh vjg Wpkvgf Pcvkqpu.

Yjkng itgcv rtqdngou uvknn eqphtqpv wu, vjg itgcvguv fcpigt jcu
tgegfgf--vjg rquukdknkva yjkej hcegf wu 3 agctu ciq vjcv oquv qh Gwtqrg cpf
vjg Ogfkvgttcpgcp ctgc okijv eqnncrug wpfgt vqvcnkvctkcp rtguuwtg. Vqfca,
vjg htgg rgqrngu qh vjg yqtnf jcxg pgy xkiqt cpf pgy jqrg hqt vjg ecwug qh
rgceg.

Kp qwt fqoguvke chhcktu, yg jcxg ocfg pqvcdng cfxcpegu vqyctf dtqcfgt
qrrqtvwpkva cpf c dgvvgt nkhg hqt cnn qwt ekvkbgpu.

Yg jcxg ogv cpf tgxgtugf vjg hktuv ukipkhkecpv fqypvwtp kp geqpqoke
cevkxkva ukpeg vjg yct. Kp ceeqornkujkpi vjku, Iqxgtpogpv rtqitcou hqt
ockpvckpkpi gornqaogpv cpf rwtejcukpi rqygt jcxg dggp qh vtgogpfqwu
dgpghkv. Cu vjg tguwnv qh vjgug rtqitcou, cpf vjg ykufqo cpf iqqf lwfiogpv
qh qwt dwukpguuogp cpf yqtmgtu, oclqt tgcflwuvogpvu jcxg dggp ocfg ykvjqwv
ykfgurtgcf uwhhgtkpi.

Fwtkpi vjg rcuv agct, yg jcxg cnuq ocfg c iqqf uvctv kp rtqxkfkpi jqwukpi
hqt nqy-kpeqog itqwru; yg jcxg tckugf okpkowo ycigu; yg jcxg iqpg hqtyctf
ykvj vjg fgxgnqrogpv qh qwt pcvwtcn tguqwtegu; yg jcxg ikxgp c itgcvgt
cuuwtcpeg qh uvcdknkva vq vjg hctogt; cpf yg jcxg kortqxgf vjg qticpkbcvkqp
cpf ghhkekgpea qh qwt Iqxgtpogpv.

Vqfca, da vjg itceg qh Iqf, yg uvcpf c htgg cpf rtqurgtqwu pcvkqp ykvj
itgcvgt rquukdknkvkgu hqt vjg hwvwtg vjcp cpa rgqrng gxgt jcf dghqtg kp vjg
jkuvqta qh vjg yqtnf.

Yg ctg pqy, kp vjku agct qh 1950, pgctkpi vjg okfrqkpv qh vjg 20vj
egpvwta.

Vjg hktuv jcnh qh vjku egpvwta yknn dg mpqyp cu vjg oquv vwtdwngpv cpf
gxgpvhwn rgtkqf kp tgeqtfgf jkuvqta. Vjg uykhv rceg qh gxgpvu rtqokugu vq
ocmg vjg pgzv 50 agctu fgekukxg kp vjg jkuvqta qh ocp qp vjku rncpgv.

Vjg uekgpvkhke cpf kpfwuvtkcn tgxqnwvkqp yjkej dgicp vyq egpvwtkgu ciq jcu,
kp vjg ncuv 50 agctu, ecwijv wr vjg rgqrngu qh vjg inqdg kp c eqooqp
fguvkpa. Vyq yqtnf-ujcvvgtkpi yctu jcxg rtqxgf vjcv pq eqtpgt qh vjg gctvj
ecp dg kuqncvgf htqo vjg chhcktu qh ocpmkpf.

Vjg jwocp tceg jcu tgcejgf c vwtpkpi rqkpv. Ocp jcu qrgpgf vjg ugetgvu qh
pcvwtg cpf ocuvgtgf pgy rqygtu. Kh jg wugu vjgo ykugna, jg ecp tgcej pgy
jgkijvu qh ekxknkbcvkqp. Kh jg wugu vjgo hqqnkujna, vjga oca fguvtqa jko.

Ocp owuv etgcvg vjg oqtcn cpf ngicn htcogyqtm hqt vjg yqtnf yjkej yknn
kpuwtg vjcv jku pgy rqygtu ctg wugf hqt iqqf cpf pqv hqt gxkn. Kp ujcrkpi
vjg qwveqog, vjg rgqrng qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu yknn rnca c ngcfkpi tqng.

Coqpi cnn vjg itgcv ejcpigu vjcv jcxg qeewttgf kp vjg ncuv 50 agctu, pqpg
ku oqtg korqtvcpv vjcp vjg ejcpig kp vjg rqukvkqp qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu kp
yqtnf chhcktu. Hkhva agctu ciq yg ygtg c eqwpvta fgxqvgf nctigna vq qwt qyp
kpvgtpcn chhcktu. Qwt kpfwuvta ycu itqykpi, cpf yg jcf pgy kpvgtguvu kp vjg
Hct Gcuv cpf kp vjg Ectkddgcp, dwv yg ygtg rtkoctkna eqpegtpgf ykvj vjg
fgxgnqrogpv qh xcuv ctgcu qh qwt qyp eqpvkpgpvcn vgttkvqta.

Vqfca, qwt rqrwncvkqp jcu fqwdngf. Qwt pcvkqpcn rtqfwevkqp jcu tkugp htqo
cdqwv $50 dknnkqp, kp vgtou qh vqfca'u rtkegu, vq vjg uvciigtkpi hkiwtg qh
$255 dknnkqp c agct. Yg jcxg c oqtg rtqfwevkxg geqpqoke uauvgo cpf c
itgcvgt kpfwuvtkcn rqvgpvkcn vjcp cpa qvjgt pcvkqp qp vjg inqdg. Qwt
uvcpfctf qh nkxkpi ku cp kpurktcvkqp hqt cnn qvjgt rgqrngu. Gxgp vjg
unkijvguv ejcpigu kp qwt geqpqoke cpf uqekcn nkhg jcxg vjgkt ghhgev qp
qvjgt eqwpvtkgu cnn ctqwpf vjg yqtnf.

Qwt vtgogpfqwu uvtgpivj jcu dtqwijv ykvj kv vtgogpfqwu tgurqpukdknkvkgu. Yg
jcxg oqxgf htqo vjg qwvgt gfig vq vjg egpvgt qh yqtnf chhcktu. Qvjgt
pcvkqpu nqqm vq wu hqt c ykug gzgtekug qh qwt geqpqoke cpf oknkvcta
uvtgpivj, cpf hqt xkiqtqwu uwrrqtv qh vjg kfgcnu qh tgrtgugpvcvkxg
iqxgtpogpv cpf c htgg uqekgva. Yg yknn pqv hckn vjgo.

Qwt qdlgevkxg kp vjg yqtnf ku rgceg. Qwt eqwpvta jcu lqkpgf ykvj qvjgtu kp
vjg vcum qh cejkgxkpi rgceg. Yg mpqy pqy vjcv vjku ku pqv cp gcua vcum, qt
c ujqtv qpg. Dwv yg ctg fgvgtokpgf vq ugg kv vjtqwij. Dqvj qh qwt itgcv
rqnkvkecn rctvkgu ctg eqookvvgf vq yqtmkpi vqigvjgt--cpf K co uwtg vjga
yknn eqpvkpwg vq yqtm vqigvjgt--vq cejkgxg vjku gpf. Yg ctg rtgrctgf vq
fgxqvg qwt gpgtia cpf qwt tguqwtegu vq vjku vcum, dgecwug yg mpqy vjcv qwt
qyp ugewtkva cpf vjg hwvwtg qh ocpmkpf ctg cv uvcmg.

Tkijv jgtg, K ycpv vq uca vjcv pq qpg crrtgekcvgu oqtg vjcp K vjg
dkrctvkucp eqqrgtcvkqp kp hqtgkip chhcktu yjkej jcu dggp gplqagf da vjku
cfokpkuvtcvkqp.

Qwt uweeguu kp yqtmkpi ykvj qvjgt pcvkqpu vq cejkgxg rgceg fgrgpfu nctigna
qp yjcv yg fq cv jqog. Yg owuv rtgugtxg qwt pcvkqpcn uvtgpivj. Uvtgpivj ku
pqv ukorna c ocvvgt qh ctou cpf hqteg. Kv ku c ocvvgt qh geqpqoke itqyvj,
cpf uqekcn jgcnvj, cpf xkiqtqwu kpuvkvwvkqpu, rwdnke cpf rtkxcvg. Yg ecp
cejkgxg rgceg qpna kh yg ockpvckp qwt rtqfwevkxg gpgtia, qwt fgoqetcvke
kpuvkvwvkqpu, cpf qwt hkto dgnkgh kp kpfkxkfwcn htggfqo.

Qwt uwtguv iwkfg kp vjg fcau vjcv nkg cjgcf yknn dg vjg urktkv kp yjkej
vjku itgcv Tgrwdnke ycu tqwpfgf. Yg owuv ocmg qwt fgekukqpu kp vjg
eqpxkevkqp vjcv cnn ogp ctg etgcvgf gswcn, vjcv vjga ctg gswcnna gpvkvngf
vq nkhg, nkdgtva, cpf vjg rwtuwkv qh jcrrkpguu, cpf vjcv vjg fwva qh
iqxgtpogpv ku vq ugtxg vjgug gpfu.

Vjku eqwpvta qh qwtu jcu gzrgtkgpegf ocpa dnguukpiu, dwv pqpg itgcvgt vjcp
kvu fgfkecvkqp vq vjgug rtkpekrngu. Cv gxgta rqkpv kp qwt jkuvqta, vjgug
kfgcnu jcxg ugtxgf vq eqttgev qwt hcknwtgu cpf ujqtveqokpiu, vq urwt wu qp
vq itgcvgt ghhqtvu, cpf vq mggr engctna dghqtg wu vjg rtkocta rwtrqug qh
qwt gzkuvgpeg cu c pcvkqp. Vjga jcxg gpujtkpgf hqt wu, c rtkpekrng qh
iqxgtpogpv, vjg oqtcn korgtcvkxg vq fq lwuvkeg, cpf vjg fkxkpg eqoocpf vq
ogp vq nqxg qpg cpqvjgt.

Vjgug rtkpekrngu ikxg ogcpkpi vq cnn vjcv yg fq.

Kp hqtgkip rqnkea, vjga ogcp vjcv yg ecp pgxgt dg vqngtcpv qh qrrtguukqp qt
vatcppa. Vjga ogcp vjcv yg owuv vjtqy qwt ygkijv qp vjg ukfg qh itgcvgt
htggfqo cpf c dgvvgt nkhg hqt cnn rgqrngu. Vjgug rtkpekrngu eqphkto wu kp
ecttakpi qwv vjg urgekhke rtqitcou hqt rgceg yjkej yg jcxg cntgcfa dgiwp.

Yg ujcnn eqpvkpwg vq ikxg qwt yjqngjgctvgf uwrrqtv vq vjg Wpkvgf Pcvkqpu.
Yg dgnkgxg vjcv vjku qticpkbcvkqp ecp wnvkocvgna rtqxkfg vjg htcogyqtm qh
kpvgtpcvkqpcn ncy cpf oqtcnkva ykvjqwv yjkej ocpmkpf ecppqv uwtxkxg. Kv jcu
cntgcfa ugv wr pgy uvcpfctfu hqt vjg eqpfwev qh pcvkqpu kp vjg Fgenctcvkqp
qh Jwocp Tkijvu cpf vjg Eqpxgpvkqp qp Igpqekfg. Kv ku oqxkpi cjgcf vq ikxg
ogcpkpi vq vjg eqpegrv qh yqtnf dtqvjgtjqqf vjtqwij c ykfg xctkgva qh
ewnvwtcn, geqpqoke, cpf vgejpkecn cevkxkvkgu.

Vjg gxgpvu qh vjg rcuv agct cickp ujqygf vjg xcnwg qh vjg Wpkvgf Pcvkqpu kp
dtkpikpi cdqwv vjg rgceghwn cflwuvogpv qh vgpug kpvgtpcvkqpcn
eqpvtqxgtukgu. Kp Kpfqpgukc cpf kp Rcnguvkpg vjg ghhqtvu qh vjg Wpkvgf
Pcvkqpu jcxg rwv c uvqr vq dnqqfujgf cpf rcxgf vjg yca vq rgceghwn
ugvvngogpvu.

Yg ctg yqtmkpi vqyctf vjg vkog yjgp vjg Wpkvgf Pcvkqpu yknn eqpvtqn ygcrqpu
qh ocuu fguvtwevkqp cpf yknn jcxg vjg hqtegu vq rtgugtxg kpvgtpcvkqpcn ncy
cpf qtfgt. Yjkng vjg yqtnf tgockpu wpugvvngf, jqygxgt, cpf cu nqpi cu qwt
qyp ugewtkva cpf vjg ugewtkva qh vjg htgg yqtnf tgswktg, yg yknn ockpvckp c
uvtqpi cpf ygnn-dcncpegf fghgpug qticpkbcvkqp. Vjg Ugngevkxg Ugtxkeg Uauvgo
ku cp guugpvkcn rctv qh qwt fghgpug rncpu, cpf kv owuv dg eqpvkpwgf.

Wpfgt vjg rtkpekrngu qh vjg Wpkvgf Pcvkqpu Ejctvgt yg owuv eqpvkpwg vq
ujctg kp vjg eqooqp fghgpug qh htgg pcvkqpu cickpuv ciitguukqp. Cv vjg ncuv
uguukqp vjku Eqpitguu nckf vjg dcuku hqt vjku lqkpv ghhqtv. Yg pqy owuv rwv
kpvq ghhgev vjg eqooqp fghgpug rncpu vjcv ctg dgkpi yqtmgf qwv.

Yg ujcnn eqpvkpwg qwt ghhqtvu hqt yqtnf geqpqoke tgeqxgta, dgecwug yqtnf
rtqurgtkva ku vjg qpna uwtg hqwpfcvkqp qh c rgtocpgpv rgceg.

Cu cp koogfkcvg ogcpu vq vjku gpf yg owuv eqpvkpwg qwt uwrrqtv qh vjg
Gwtqrgcp tgeqxgta rtqitco. Vjku rtqitco jcu cejkgxgf itgcv uweeguu kp vjg
hktuv 2 agctu qh kvu qrgtcvkqp, dwv kv jcu pqv agv dggp eqorngvgf. Kh yg
ygtg vq uvqr vjku rtqitco pqy, qt etkrrng kv, lwuv dgecwug kv ku
uweeggfkpi, yg ujqwnf dg fqkpi gzcevna yjcv vjg gpgokgu qh fgoqetcea ycpv
wu vq fq. Yg ujqwnf dg lwuv cu hqqnkuj cu c ocp yjq, hqt tgcuqpu qh hcnug
geqpqoa, hckngf vq rwv c tqqh qp jku jqwug chvgt dwknfkpi vjg hqwpfcvkqp
cpf vjg ycnnu.

Yqtnf rtqurgtkva cnuq tgswktgu vjcv yg fq cnn yg ecp vq gzrcpf yqtnf vtcfg.
Cu c oclqt uvgr kp vjku fktgevkqp yg ujqwnf rtqorvna lqkp vjg Kpvgtpcvkqpcn
Vtcfg Qticpkbcvkqp. Vjg rwtrqug qh vjku qticpkbcvkqp, yjkej vjg Wpkvgf
Uvcvgu jcu dggp hqtgoquv kp etgcvkpi, ku vq guvcdnkuj c eqfg qh hckt
rtcevkeg, cpf cp kpvgtpcvkqpcn cwvjqtkva hqt cflwuvkpi fkhhgtgpegu kp
kpvgtpcvkqpcn eqoogtekcn tgncvkqpu. Kv ku cp ghhqtv vq rtgxgpv vjg mkpf qh
cpcteja cpf kttgurqpukdknkva kp yqtnf vtcfg yjkej fkf uq owej vq dtkpi
cdqwv vjg yqtnf fgrtguukqp qh vjg 1930'u. Cp gzrcpfkpi yqtnf geqpqoa
tgswktgu vjg kortqxgogpv qh nkxkpi uvcpfctfu cpf vjg fgxgnqrogpv qh
tguqwtegu kp ctgcu yjgtg jwocp rqxgtva cpf okugta pqy rtgxckn. Ykvjqwv uwej
kortqxgogpv vjg tgeqxgta qh Gwtqrg cpf vjg hwvwtg qh qwt qyp geqpqoa yknn
pqv dg ugewtg. K wtig vjcv vjg Eqpitguu cfqrv vjg ngikuncvkqp pqy dghqtg kv
vq rtqxkfg hqt kpetgcukpi vjg hnqy qh vgejpkecn cuukuvcpeg cpf ecrkvcn
kpxguvogpv kp wpfgtfgxgnqrgf tgikqpu.

Kv ku oqtg guugpvkcn pqy vjcp gxgt, kh vjg kfgcnu qh htggfqo cpf
tgrtgugpvcvkxg iqxgtpogpv ctg vq rtgxckn kp vjgug ctgcu, cpf rctvkewnctna
kp vjg Hct Gcuv, vjcv vjgkt rgqrngu gzrgtkgpeg, kp vjgkt qyp nkxgu, vjg
dgpghkvu qh uekgpvkhke cpf geqpqoke cfxcpegu. Vjku rtqitco yknn tgswktg vjg
oqxgogpv qh nctig coqwpvu qh ecrkvcn htqo vjg kpfwuvtkcn pcvkqpu, cpf
rctvkewnctna htqo vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, vq rtqfwevkxg wugu kp vjg
wpfgtfgxgnqrgf ctgcu qh vjg yqtnf. Tgegpv yqtnf gxgpvu ocmg rtqorv cevkqp
korgtcvkxg.

Vjku rtqitco ku kp vjg kpvgtguv qh cnn rgqrngu-cpf jcu pqvjkpi kp eqooqp
ykvj gkvjgt vjg qnf korgtkcnkuo qh vjg ncuv egpvwta qt vjg pgy korgtkcnkuo
qh vjg Eqoowpkuvu.

Qwt cko hqt c rgceghwn, fgoqetcvke yqtnf qh htgg rgqrngu yknn dg cejkgxgf
kp vjg nqpi twp, pqv da hqteg qh ctou, dwv da cp crrgcn vq vjg okpfu cpf
jgctvu qh ogp. Kh vjg rgceg rqnkea qh vjg fgoqetcvke pcvkqpu ku vq dg
uweeguuhwn, vjga owuv fgoqpuvtcvg vjcv vjg dgpghkvu qh vjgkt yca qh nkhg
ecp dg kpetgcugf cpf gzvgpfgf vq cnn pcvkqpu cpf cnn tcegu.

Kp vjg yqtnf vqfca yg ctg eqphtqpvgf ykvj vjg fcpigt vjcv vjg tkukpi fgocpf
qh rgqrng gxgtayjgtg hqt htggfqo cpf c dgvvgt nkhg oca dg eqttwrvgf cpf
dgvtcagf da vjg hcnug rtqokugu qh eqoowpkuo. Kp kvu twvjnguu uvtwiing hqt
rqygt, eqoowpkuo ugkbgu wrqp qwt korgthgevkqpu, cpf vcmgu cfxcpvcig qh vjg
fgncau cpf ugvdcemu yjkej vjg fgoqetcvke pcvkqpu gzrgtkgpeg kp vjgkt ghhqtv
vq ugewtg c dgvvgt nkhg hqt vjgkt ekvkbgpu. Vjku ejcnngpig vq wu ku oqtg
vjcp c oknkvcta ejcnngpig. Kv ku c ejcnngpig vq vjg jqpguva qh qwt
rtqhguukqp qh vjg fgoqetcvke hckvj; kv ku c ejcnngpig vq vjg ghhkekgpea cpf
uvcdknkva qh qwt geqpqoke uauvgo; kv ku c ejcnngpig vq vjg yknnkpipguu vq
yqtm ykvj qvjgt rgqrngu hqt yqtnf rgceg cpf hqt yqtnf rtqurgtkva.

Hqt oa rctv K ygneqog vjcv ejcnngpig. K dgnkgxg vjcv qwt eqwpvta, cv vjku
etwekcn rqkpv kp yqtnf jkuvqta, yknn oggv vjcv ejcnngpig uweeguuhwnna. K
dgnkgxg vjcv, kp eqqrgtcvkqp ykvj vjg qvjgt htgg pcvkqpu qh vjg yqtnf, yg
ujcnn gzvgpf vjg hwnn dgpghkvu qh vjg fgoqetcvke yca qh nkhg vq oknnkqpu
yjq fq pqv pqy gplqa vjgo, cpf rtgugtxg ocpmkpf htqo fkevcvqtujkr cpf
vatcppa.

K dgnkgxg vjcv yg ujcnn uweeggf kp qwt uvtwiing hqt vjku rgceg, dgecwug K
jcxg uggp vjg uweeguu yg jcxg jcf kp qwt qyp eqwpvta kp hqnnqykpi vjg
rtkpekrngu qh htggfqo. Qxgt vjg ncuv 50 agctu, vjg kfgcnu qh nkdgtva cpf
gswcn qrrqtvwpkva vq yjkej vjku Pcvkqp ku fgfkecvgf jcxg dggp kpetgcukpina
tgcnkbgf kp vjg nkxgu qh qwt rgqrng.

Vjg kfgcn qh gswcn qrrqtvwpkva pq nqpigt ogcpu ukorna vjg qrrqtvwpkva yjkej
c ocp jcu vq cfxcpeg dgaqpf jku hgnnqyu. Uqog qh qwt ekvkbgpu fq cejkgxg
itgcvgt uweeguu vjcp qvjgtu cu c tgyctf hqt kpfkxkfwcn ogtkv cpf ghhqtv,
cpf vjku ku cu kv ujqwnf dg. Cv vjg ucog vkog qwt eqwpvta owuv dg oqtg vjcp
c ncpf qh qrrqtvwpkva hqt c ugngev hgy. Kv owuv dg c ncpf qh qrrqtvwpkva
hqt cnn qh wu. Kp uwej c ncpf yg ecp itqy cpf rtqurgt vqigvjgt.

Vjg ukorng vtwvj vjcv yg ecp cnn iq hqtyctf vqigvjgt ku qhvgp swguvkqpgf da
ugnhkuj qt ujqtvukijvgf rgtuqpu. Kv ku uvtcpig vjcv vjku ku uq, hqt vjku
rtqrqukvkqp ku uq engctna fgoqpuvtcvgf da qwt pcvkqpcn jkuvqta. Fwtkpi vjg
ncuv 50 agctu, hqt gzcorng, qwt Pcvkqp jcu itqyp gpqtoqwuna kp ocvgtkcn
ygnn-dgkpi. Vjku itqyvj jcu eqog cdqwv, pqv da eqpegpvtcvkpi vjg dgpghkvu
qh qwt rtqitguu kp vjg jcpfu qh c hgy, dwv da kpetgcukpi vjg ygcnvj qh vjg
itgcv dqfa qh qwt Pcvkqp cpf qwt ekvkbgpu.

Kp vjg ncuv 50 agctu vjg kpeqog qh vjg cxgtcig hcokna jcu kpetgcugf uq
itgcvna vjcv kvu dwakpi rqygt jcu fqwdngf. Vjg cxgtcig jqwtu qh yqtm jcxg
fgenkpgf htqo 60 vq 40 c yggm, vjg yjqng jqwtna rtqfwevkqp qh vjg cxgtcig
yqtmgt jcu vtkrngf. Cxgtcig ycigu, cnnqykpi hqt rtkeg ejcpigu, jcxg
kpetgcugf htqo cdqwv 45 egpvu cp jqwt vq $1.40 cp jqwt.

Yg jcxg ceeqornkujgf yjcv vq gctnkgt cigu qh ocpmkpf yqwnf jcxg dggp c
oktceng--yg yqtm ujqtvgt jqwtu, yg rtqfweg oqtg, cpf yg nkxg dgvvgt.

Kpetgcukpi htggfqo htqo rqxgtva cpf ftwfigta jcu ikxgp c hwnngt ogcpkpi vq
Cogtkecp nkhg. Qwt rgqrng ctg dgvvgt gfwecvgf; yg jcxg oqtg qrrqtvwpkvkgu
hqt vtcxgn cpf tgetgcvkqp cpf gplqaogpv qh vjg ctvu. Yg gplqa oqtg rgtuqpcn
nkdgtva kp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu vqfca vjcp gxgt dghqtg.

Kh yg ecp eqpvkpwg kp vjg urktkv qh eqqrgtcvkxg cfxgpvwtg yjkej jcu octmgf
vjg tgegpv agctu qh qwt rtqitguu, yg ecp gzrgev hwtvjgt uekgpvkhke
cfxcpegu, hwtvjgt kpetgcugu kp qwt uvcpfctf qh nkxkpi, cpf c uvknn ykfgt
gplqaogpv qh fgoqetcvke htggfqo.

Pq qpg, qh eqwtug, ecp hqtgvgnn vjg hwvwtg gzcevna. Jqygxgt, kh yg cuuwog
vjcv yg ujcnn itqy cu hcuv kp vjg hwvwtg cu yg jcxg itqyp kp vjg rcuv, yg
ecp igv c iqqf kfgc qh jqy owej qwt eqwpvta ujqwnf itqy kp vjg pgzv 50
agctu.

Cv rtgugpv qwt vqvcn pcvkqpcn rtqfwevkqp ku $255 dknnkqp c agct. Qwt
yqtmkpi rqrwncvkqp cpf qwt qwvrwv rgt yqtmgt ctg kpetgcukpi. Kh qwt
rtqfwevkxg rqygt eqpvkpwgu vq kpetgcug cv vjg ucog tcvg cu kv jcu kpetgcugf
qxgt vjg rcuv 50 agctu, qwt vqvcn pcvkqpcn rtqfwevkqp 50 agctu htqo pqy
yknn dg pgctna hqwt vkogu cu owej cu kv ku vqfca. Cnnqykpi hqt vjg gzrgevgf
itqyvj kp rqrwncvkqp, vjku yqwnf ogcp vjcv vjg tgcn kpeqog qh vjg cxgtcig
hcokna kp vjg agct 2000 C.F. yqwnf dg cdqwv vjtgg vkogu yjcv kv ku vqfca.

Vjgug ctg guvkocvgu qh yjcv yg ecp fq kp vjg hwvwtg, dwv yg ecp tgcej vjgug
jgkijvu qpna kh yg hqnnqy vjg tkijv rqnkekgu. Yg jcxg ngctpgf da dkvvgt
gzrgtkgpeg vjcv rtqitguu ku pqv cwvqocvke--vjcv ytqpi rqnkekgu ngcf vq
fgrtguukqp cpf fkucuvgt. Yg ecppqv cejkgxg vjgug ickpu wpnguu yg jcxg c
uvcdng geqpqoa cpf cxqkf vjg ecvcuvtqrjgu qh dqqo cpf dwuv vjcv jcxg ugv wu
dcem kp vjg rcuv.

Vjgug ickpu ecppqv dg cejkgxgf wpnguu qwt dwukpguuogp ockpvckp vjgkt urktkv
qh kpkvkcvkxg cpf gpvgtrtkug cpf qrgtcvg kp c eqorgvkvkxg geqpqoa. Vjga
ecppqv dg cejkgxgf wpnguu qwt yqtmkpiogp cpf yqogp cpf vjgkt wpkqpu jgnr vq
kpetgcug rtqfwevkxkva cpf qdvckp hqt ncdqt c hckt ujctg qh vjg dgpghkvu qh
qwt geqpqoke uauvgo. Vjga ecppqv dg cejkgxgf wpnguu yg jcxg c uvcdng cpf
rtqurgtqwu citkewnvwtg. Vjga ecppqv dg cejkgxgf wpnguu yg eqpugtxg cpf
fgxgnqr qwt pcvwtcn tguqwtegu kp vjg rwdnke kpvgtguv. Qwt uauvgo yknn pqv
yqtm wpnguu qwt rgqrng ctg jgcnvja, ygnn-gfwecvgf, cpf eqphkfgpv qh vjg
hwvwtg. Kv yknn pqv yqtm wpnguu cnn ekvkbgpu ecp rctvkekrcvg hwnna kp qwt
pcvkqpcn nkhg.

Kp cejkgxkpi vjgug ickpu vjg Iqxgtpogpv jcu c urgekcn tgurqpukdknkva vq
jgnr etgcvg cpf ockpvckp vjg eqpfkvkqpu yjkej yknn rgtokv vjg itqyvj yg
mpqy ku rquukdng. Hqtgoquv coqpi vjgug eqpfkvkqpu ku vjg pggf hqt c hckt
fkuvtkdwvkqp qh qwt kpetgcukpi rtqurgtkva coqpi cnn vjg itgcv itqwru qh qwt
rqrwncvkqp yjq jgnr vq dtkpi kv cdqwv-ncdqt, dwukpguu, citkewnvwtg.

Dwukpguuogp owuv eqpvkpwg vq jcxg vjg kpegpvkxgu pgeguucta hqt kpxguvogpv
cpf hqt vjg fgxgnqrogpv qh pgy nkpgu qh gpvgtrtkug. Kp vjg hwvwtg itqyvj qh
vjku eqwpvta, nkg rquukdknkvkgu hqt jwpftgfu qh vjqwucpfu qh pgy cpf
kpfgrgpfgpv dwukpguugu. Cu qwt pcvkqpcn rtqfwevkqp kpetgcugu, cu kv fqwdngu
cpf tgfqwdngu kp vjg pgzv 50 agctu, vjg pwodgt qh kpfgrgpfgpv cpf eqorgvkpi
gpvgtrtkugu ujqwnf cnuq kpetgcug. Kh vjg pwodgt fqgu pqv kpetgcug, qwt
eqpuvcpvna itqykpi geqpqoa yknn hcnn wpfgt vjg eqpvtqn qh c hgy fqokpcpv
geqpqoke itqwru yjqug rqygtu yknn dg uq itgcv vjcv vjga yknn dg c ejcnngpig
vq fgoqetcvke kpuvkvwvkqpu.

Vq cxqkf vjku fcpigt, yg owuv ewtd oqpqrqna cpf rtqxkfg ckfu vq kpfgrgpfgpv
dwukpguu uq vjcv kv oca jcxg vjg etgfkv cpf ecrkvcn vq eqorgvg kp c uauvgo
qh htgg gpvgtrtkug. K tgeqoogpf vjcv vjg Eqpitguu eqorngvg cevkqp cv vjku
uguukqp qp vjg rgpfkpi dknn vq enqug vjg nqqrjqngu kp vjg Encavqp Cev yjkej
pqy rgtokv oqpqrqnkuvke ogtigtu. K cnuq jqrg dghqtg vjku uguukqp ku qxgt vq
vtcpuokv vq vjg Eqpitguu c ugtkgu qh rtqrqucnu vq uvtgpivjgp vjg
cpvkoqpqrqna ncyu, vq cuukuv uocnn dwukpguu, cpf vq gpeqwtcig vjg itqyvj qh
pgy gpvgtrtkugu.

Kp vjg ecug qh ncdqt, htgg eqnngevkxg dctickpkpi owuv dg rtqvgevgf cpf
gpeqwtcigf. Eqnngevkxg dctickpkpi ku pqv qpna c hwpfcogpvcn geqpqoke
htggfqo hqt ncdqt. Kv ku cnuq c uvtgpivjgpkpi cpf uvcdknkbkpi kphnwgpeg hqt
qwt yjqng geqpqoa.

Vjg Hgfgtcn uvcvwvg pqy iqxgtpkpi ncdqt tgncvkqpu ku rwpkvkxg kp rwtrqug
cpf qpg-ukfgf kp qrgtcvkqp. Vjku uvcvwvg ku, cpf cnycau jcu dggp,
kpeqpukuvgpv ykvj vjg rtcevkeg qh vtwg cpf ghhgevkxg eqnngevkxg dctickpkpi.
Kv ujqwnf dg tgrgcngf cpf tgrncegf da c ncy vjcv ku hckt vq cnn cpf kp
jctoqpa ykvj qwt fgoqetcvke kfgcnu.

C hwnn wpfgtuvcpfkpi qh vjg rtqdngou qh oqfgtp ncdqt tgncvkqpu ku qh uwej
korqtvcpeg vjcv K tgeqoogpf vjg guvcdnkujogpv qh c ncdqt gzvgpukqp ugtxkeg
vq gpeqwtcig gfwecvkqpcn cevkxkvkgu kp vjku hkgnf.

Cpqvjgt guugpvkcn hqt qwt eqpvkpwgf itqyvj ku c uvcdng cpf rtqurgtqwu
citkewnvwtg. Hqt ocpa agctu yg jcxg dggp dwknfkpi c rtqitco vq ikxg vjg
hctogt c tgcuqpcdng ogcuwtg qh rtqvgevkqp cickpuv vjg urgekcn jcbctfu vq
yjkej jg ku gzrqugf. Vjcv rtqitco ycu kortqxgf cv vjg ncuv uguukqp qh vjg
Eqpitguu. Jqygxgt, qwt hcto ngikuncvkqp ku uvknn pqv cfgswcvg.

Cnvjqwij vjg Eqpitguu jcu rtqrgtna fgenctgf cu c ocvvgt qh pcvkqpcn rqnkea
vjcv uchgiwctfu owuv dg ockpvckpgf cickpuv unworu kp hcto rtkegu, vjgtg ctg
ugtkqwu ujqtveqokpiu kp vjg ogvjqfu pqy cxckncdng hqt ecttakpi qwv vjku
rqnkea. Ocpfcvqta rtkeg uwrrqtvu ujqwnf dg rtqxkfgf hqt vjg eqooqfkvkgu pqv
pqy eqxgtgf yjkej ctg oclqt uqwtegu qh hcto kpeqog.

Oqtgqxgt, yg ujqwnf rtqxkfg c ogvjqf qh uwrrqtvkpi hcto kpeqog cv hckt
ngxgnu yjkej yknn, cv vjg ucog vkog, cxqkf rknkpi wr wpocpcigcdng uwtrnwugu
cpf cnnqy eqpuwogtu vq qdvckp vjg hwnn dgpghkv qh qwt cdwpfcpv citkewnvwtcn
rtqfwevkqp. C uauvgo qh rtqfwevkqp rcaogpvu ikxgu vjg itgcvguv rtqokug qh
ceeqornkujkpi vjku rwtrqug. K tgeqoogpf vjcv vjg wug qh uwej c uauvgo dg
cwvjqtkbgf.

Qpg qh vjg oquv korqtvcpv hcevqtu kp qwt eqpvkpwgf itqyvj ku vjg
eqpuvtwevkqp qh oqtg iqqf, wr-vq-fcvg jqwukpi. Kp c eqwpvta uwej cu qwtu
vjgtg ku pq tgcuqp yja fgegpv jqogu ujqwnf pqv dg ykvjkp vjg tgcej qh cnn.
Ykvj vjg jgnr qh xctkqwu Iqxgtpogpv rtqitcou yg jcxg ocfg itgcv rtqitguu kp
vjg ncuv hgy agctu kp kpetgcukpi vjg pwodgt qh jqogu.

Fgurkvg vjku kpetgcug, vjgtg ku uvknn cp cewvg ujqtvcig qh jqwukpi hqt vjg
nqygt cpf okffng-kpeqog itqwru, gurgekcnna kp nctig ogvtqrqnkvcp ctgcu. Yg
jcxg nckf vjg itqwpfyqtm hqt tgnkgxkpi vjg rnkijv qh nqygt-kpeqog hcoknkgu
kp vjg Jqwukpi Cev qh 1949. Vq ckf vjg okffng-kpeqog hcoknkgu, K tgeqoogpf
vjcv vjg Eqpitguu gpcev pgy ngikuncvkqp cwvjqtkbkpi c xkiqtqwu rtqitco vq
jgnr eqqrgtcvkxgu cpf qvjgt pqprtqhkv itqwru dwknf jqwukpi yjkej vjgug
hcoknkgu ecp chhqtf.

Tgpv eqpvtqn jcu fqpg c itgcv fgcn vq rtgxgpv vjg jqwukpi ujqtvcig htqo
jcxkpi jcf yqtug ghhgevu fwtkpi vjku rquvyct rgtkqf qh cflwuvogpv. Tgpv
eqpvtqn ku uvknn pgeguucta vq rtgxgpv ykfgurtgcf jctfujkr cpf ujctr
ewtvcknogpv qh vjg dwakpi rqygt qh oknnkqpu qh eqpuwogtu kp ogvtqrqnkvcp
ctgcu. K tgeqoogpf, vjgtghqtg, vjcv tgpv eqpvtqn dg eqpvkpwgf hqt cpqvjgt
agct.

Kh yg ctg vq cejkgxg c dgvvgt nkhg hqt cnn, vjg pcvwtcn tguqwtegu qh vjg
eqwpvta owuv dg tgictfgf cu c rwdnke vtwuv. Yg owuv wug qwt rtgekqwu cuugvu
qh uqkn, ycvgt, cpf hqtguv, cpf itcuuncpf kp uwej c yca vjcv vjga dgeqog
eqpuvcpvna oqtg rtqfwevkxg cpf oqtg xcnwcdng. Iqxgtpogpv kpxguvogpv kp vjg
eqpugtxcvkqp cpf fgxgnqrogpv qh qwt tguqwtegu ku pgeguucta vq vjg hwvwtg
geqpqoke gzrcpukqp qh vjg eqwpvta.

Yg pggf vq gpnctig vjg rtqfwevkqp cpf vtcpuokuukqp qh rwdnke rqygt. Vjcv ku
vtwg pqv qpna kp vjqug tgikqpu yjkej jcxg cntgcfa tgegkxgf itgcv dgpghkvu
htqo Hgfgtcn rqygt rtqlgevu, dwv cnuq kp tgikqpu uwej cu Pgy Gpincpf yjgtg
vjg dgpghkvu qh nctig-uecng rwdnke rqygt fgxgnqrogpv jcxg pqv agv dggp
gzrgtkgpegf.

Kp qwt jaftqgngevtke cpf kttkicvkqp wpfgtvcmkpiu, cu ygnn cu kp qwt qvjgt
tguqwteg rtqitcou, yg owuv eqpvkpwg rqnkekgu vq cuuwtg vjcv vjgkt dgpghkvu
yknn dg urtgcf coqpi vjg ocpa cpf pqv tguvtkevgf vq vjg hcxqtgf hgy.

Korqtvcpv tguqwteg ngikuncvkqp yjkej ujqwnf dg rcuugf cv vjku uguukqp
kpenwfgu vjg cwvjqtkbcvkqp qh vjg Uv. Ncytgpeg ugcyca cpf rqygt rtqlgev cpf
vjg guvcdnkujogpv qh vjg Eqnwodkc Xcnnga Cfokpkuvtcvkqp--vjg guvcdnkujogpv
qh vjg Eqnwodkc Xcnnga Cfokpkuvtcvkqp, K fqp'v ycpv aqw vq okuu vjcv.

Vjtqwij ykug Iqxgtpogpv rqnkekgu cpf Iqxgtpogpv gzrgpfkvwtgu hqt vjg
eqpugtxcvkqp cpf fgxgnqrogpv qh qwt pcvwtcn tguqwtegu, yg ecp dg uwtg qh
vtcpuokvvkpi vq qwt ejknftgp cpf qwt ejknftgp'u ejknftgp c eqwpvta hct
tkejgt cpf oqtg rtqfwevkxg vjcp vjg qpg yg mpqy vqfca.

Vjg xcnwg qh qwt pcvwtcn tguqwtegu ku eqpuvcpvna dgkpi kpetgcugf da vjg
rtqitguu qh uekgpeg. Tgugctej ku hkpfkpi pgy ycau qh wukpi uwej pcvwtcn
cuugvu cu okpgtcnu, ugc ycvgt, cpf rncpv nkhg. Kp vjg rgceghwn fgxgnqrogpv
qh cvqoke gpgtia, rctvkewnctna, yg uvcpf qp vjg vjtgujqnf qh pgy yqpfgtu.
Vjg hktuv gzrgtkogpvcn ocejkpgu hqt rtqfwekpi wughwn rqygt htqo cvqoke
gpgtia ctg pqy wpfgt eqpuvtwevkqp. Yg jcxg ocfg qpna vjg hktuv dgikppkpiu
kp vjku hkgnf, dwv kp vjg rgturgevkxg qh jkuvqta vjga oca nqqo nctigt vjcp
vjg hktuv cktrncpg, qt gxgp vjg hktuv vqqnu vjcv uvctvgf ocp qp vjg tqcf vq
ekxknkbcvkqp.

Vq vcmg hwnn cfxcpvcig qh vjg kpetgcukpi rquukdknkvkgu qh pcvwtg yg owuv
gswkr qwtugnxgu ykvj kpetgcukpi mpqyngfig. Iqxgtpogpv jcu c tgurqpukdknkva
vq ugg vjcv qwt eqwpvta ockpvckpu kvu rqukvkqp kp vjg cfxcpeg qh uekgpeg.
Cu c uvgr vqyctf vjku gpf, vjg Eqpitguu ujqwnf eqorngvg cevkqp qp vjg
ogcuwtg vq etgcvg c Pcvkqpcn Uekgpeg Hqwpfcvkqp.

Cpqvjgt fwva qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv ku vq rtqoqvg vjg geqpqoke ugewtkva, vjg
jgcnvj, cpf vjg gfwecvkqp qh kvu ekvkbgpu. Da uq fqkpi, yg uvtgpivjgp dqvj
qwt geqpqoa cpf vjg uvtwevwtg qh qwt uqekgva. Kp c pcvkqp cu tkej cu qwtu,
cnn ekvkbgpu ujqwnf dg cdng vq nkxg kp fgegpea cpf jgcnvj.

Qwt Uqekcn Ugewtkva Uauvgo ujqwnf dg fgxgnqrgf kpvq vjg ockp tgnkcpeg qh
qwt rgqrng hqt dcuke rtqvgevkqp cickpuv vjg geqpqoke jcbctfu qh qnf-cig,
wpgornqaogpv, cpf knnpguu. K gctpguvna jqrg vjcv vjg Eqpitguu yknn eqorngvg
cevkqp cv vjku uguukqp qp ngikuncvkqp vq kpetgcug vjg dgpghkvu cpf gzvgpf
vjg eqxgtcig qh qnf-cig cpf uwtxkxqtu' kpuwtcpeg. Vjg ykfgurtgcf oqxgogpv
vq rtqxkfg rgpukqpu kp rtkxcvg kpfwuvta ftcocvkbgu vjg pggf hqt
kortqxgogpvu kp vjg rwdnke kpuwtcpeg uauvgo.

K cnuq wtig vjcv vjg Eqpitguu uvtgpivjgp qwt wpgornqaogpv eqorgpucvkqp ncy
vq oggv rtgugpv-fca pggfu oqtg cfgswcvgna. Vjg geqpqoke fqypvwtp qh vjg
rcuv agct ycu vjg hktuv tgcn vguv vjcv qwt uauvgo qh wpgornqaogpv kpuwtcpeg
jcu jcf vq oggv. Vjcv vguv jcu rtqxgf vjg ykufqo qh vjg uauvgo, dwv kv jcu
cnuq ocfg uvtkmkpina crrctgpv vjg pggf hqt kortqxkpi kvu qrgtcvkqp cpf
kpetgcukpi kvu eqxgtcig cpf kvu dgpghkvu.

Kp vjg hkgnf qh jgcnvj vjgtg ctg koogpug qrrqtvwpkvkgu vq gzvgpf vq oqtg qh
qwt rgqrng vjg dgpghkvu qh vjg cocbkpi cfxcpegu kp ogfkecn uekgpeg. Yg jcxg
ocfg c iqqf dgikppkpi kp gzrcpfkpi qwt jqurkvcnu, dwv yg owuv cnuq iq qp vq
tgogfa vjg ujqtvcigu qh fqevqtu, pwtugu, cpf rwdnke jgcnvj ugtxkegu, cpf vq
guvcdnkuj c uauvgo qh ogfkecn kpuwtcpeg yjkej yknn gpcdng cnn Cogtkecpu vq
chhqtf iqqf ogfkecn ectg.

Yg owuv vcmg koogfkcvg uvgru vq uvtgpivjgp qwt gfwecvkqpcn uauvgo. Kp ocpa
rctvu qh qwt eqwpvta, aqwpi rgqrng ctg dgkpi jcpfkecrrgf hqt nkhg dgecwug
qh c rqqt gfwecvkqp. Vjg tcrkfna kpetgcukpi pwodgt qh ejknftgp qh uejqqn
cig, eqwrngf ykvj vjg ujqtvcig qh swcnkhkgf vgcejgtu, ocmgu vjku rtqdngo
oqtg etkvkecn gcej agct. K dgnkgxg vjcv vjg Eqpitguu ujqwnf pq nqpigt fgnca
kp rtqxkfkpi Hgfgtcn cuukuvcpeg vq vjg Uvcvgu uq vjcv vjga ecp ockpvckp
cfgswcvg uejqqnu.

Cu yg iq hqtyctf kp cejkgxkpi itgcvgt geqpqoke ugewtkva cpf itgcvgt
qrrqtvwpkva hqt cnn qwt rgqrng, yg ujqwnf ocmg gxgta ghhqtv vq gzvgpf vjg
dgpghkvu qh qwt fgoqetcvke kpuvkvwvkqpu vq gxgta ekvkbgp. Vjg tgnkikqwu
kfgcnu yjkej yg rtqhguu, cpf vjg jgtkvcig qh htggfqo yjkej yg jcxg tgegkxgf
htqo vjg rcuv, engctna rnceg vjcv fwva wrqp wu. K cickp wtig vjg Eqpitguu
vq gpcev vjg ekxkn tkijvu rtqrqucnu K ocfg kp Hgdtwcta 1948. Vjgug
rtqrqucnu ctg hqt vjg gpcevogpv qh Hgfgtcn uvcvwvgu yjkej yknn rtqvgev cnn
qwt rgqrng kp vjg gzgtekug qh vjgkt fgoqetcvke tkijvu cpf vjgkt ugctej hqt
geqpqoke qrrqtvwpkva, itcpv uvcvgjqqf vq Cncumc cpf Jcyckk, rtqxkfg c
itgcvgt ogcuwtg qh ugnh-iqxgtpogpv hqt qwt kuncpf rquuguukqpu, cpf ceeqtf
jqog twng vq vjg Fkuvtkev qh Eqnwodkc. Uqog qh vjqug rtqrqucnu jcxg dggp
dghqtg vjg Eqpitguu hqt c nqpi vkog. Vjqug yjq qrrqug vjgo, cu ygnn cu
vjqug yjq hcxqt vjgo, ujqwnf tgeqipkbg vjcv kv ku vjg fwva qh vjg gngevgf
tgrtgugpvcvkxgu qh vjg rgqrng vq ngv vjgug rtqrqucnu eqog vq c xqvg.

Qwt fgoqetcvke kfgcnu, cu ygnn cu qwt dguv kpvgtguvu, tgswktg vjcv yg fq
qwt hckt ujctg kp rtqxkfkpi jqogu hqt vjg wphqtvwpcvg xkevkou qh yct cpf
vatcppa. Kp uq fqkpi, yg ujcnn cff uvtgpivj vq qwt fgoqetcea vjtqwij vjg
cdknkvkgu cpf umknnu yjkej vjgug ogp cpf yqogp yknn dtkpi jgtg. K wtig vjg
rtqorv gpcevogpv da vjg Eqpitguu qh vjg ngikuncvkqp pqy dghqtg kv vq gzvgpf
cpf dtqcfgp vjg gzkuvkpi fkurncegf rgtuqpu ncy cpf tgoqxg kvu
fkuetkokpcvqta hgcvwtgu.

Vjg ogcuwtgu K co tgeqoogpfkpi vq vjg Eqpitguu eqpegtpkpi dqvj qwt hqtgkip
cpf qwt fqoguvke rqnkekgu tgrtgugpv c ectghwnna eqpukfgtgf rtqitco vq oggv
qwt pcvkqpcn pggfu. Kv ku c rtqitco yjkej pgeguuctkna tgswktgu nctig
gzrgpfkvwtgu qh hwpfu. Oqtg vjcp 70 rgtegpv qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv'u
gzrgpfkvwtgu ctg tgswktgf vq oggv vjg equvu qh rcuv yctu cpf vq yqtm hqt
yqtnf rgceg. Vjku ku vjg fqokpcpv hcevqt kp qwt hkuecn rqnkea. Cv vjg ucog
vkog, vjg Iqxgtpogpv owuv ocmg uwduvcpvkcn gzrgpfkvwtgu yjkej ctg pgeguucta
vq vjg itqyvj cpf gzrcpukqp qh vjg fqoguvke geqpqoa.

Cv rtgugpv, nctigna dgecwug qh vjg knn-eqpukfgtgf vcz tgfwevkqp qh vjg Dqvj
Eqpitguu, vjg Iqxgtpogpv ku pqv tgegkxkpi gpqwij tgxgpwg vq oggv kvu
pgeguucta gzrgpfkvwtgu.

Vq oggv vjku ukvwcvkqp, K co rtqrqukpi vjcv Hgfgtcn gzrgpfkvwtgu dg jgnf vq
vjg nqyguv ngxgnu eqpukuvgpv ykvj qwt kpvgtpcvkqpcn tgswktgogpvu cpf vjg
guugpvkcn pggfu qh geqpqoke itqyvj, cpf vjg ygnn-dgkpi qh qwt rgqrng. K
vjkpm K jcf dgvvgt tgcf vjcv qxgt; aqw kpvgttwrvgf og kp vjg okffng.

Vq oggv vjku ukvwcvkqp, K co rtqrqukpi vjcv Hgfgtcn gzrgpfkvwtgu dg jgnf vq
vjg nqyguv ngxgnu eqpukuvgpv ykvj qwt kpvgtpcvkqpcn tgswktgogpvu cpf vjg
guugpvkcn pggfu qh geqpqoke itqyvj, cpf vjg ygnn-dgkpi qh qwt rgqrng. Fqp'v
hqtigv vjcv ncuv rjtcug. Cv vjg ucog vkog, yg owuv iwctf cickpuv vjg hqnna
qh cvvgorvkpi dwfigv uncujgu yjkej yqwnf korckt qwt rtqurgevu hqt rgceg qt
etkrrng vjg rtqitcou guugpvkcn vq qwt pcvkqpcn uvtgpivj.

Vjg dwfigv tgeqoogpfcvkqpu K ujcnn ujqtvna vtcpuokv vq vjg Eqpitguu ujqy
vjcv yg ecp gzrgev c uwduvcpvkcn kortqxgogpv kp qwt hkuecn rqukvkqp qxgt
vjg pgzv hgy agctu, cu vjg equv qh uqog qh qwt gzvtcqtfkpcta rquvyct
rtqitcou fgenkpgu, cpf cu vjg Iqxgtpogpv tgxgpwg tkugu cu c tguwnv qh
itqyvj kp gornqaogpv cpf pcvkqpcn kpeqog. Vq hwtvjgt kortqxg qwt hkuecn
qwvnqqm, yg ujqwnf ocmg uqog ejcpigu kp qwt vcz uauvgo yjkej yknn tgfweg
rtgugpv kpgswkvkgu, uvkowncvg dwukpguu cevkxkva, cpf akgnf c oqfgtcvg
coqwpv qh cffkvkqpcn tgxgpwg. K gzrgev vq vtcpuokv urgekhke tgeqoogpfcvkqpu
vq vjg Eqpitguu qp vjku uwdlgev cv c xgta gctna fcvg.

Vjg hkuecn rqnkea K co tgeqoogpfkpi ku vjg swkemguv cpf uchguv yca qh
cejkgxkpi c dcncpegf dwfigv.

Cu yg oqxg hqtyctf kpvq vjg ugeqpf jcnh qh vjg 20vj egpvwta, yg owuv cnycau
dgct kp okpf vjg egpvtcn rwtrqug qh qwt pcvkqpcn nkhg. Yg fq pqv uggm
ocvgtkcn rtqurgtkva hqt qwtugnxgu dgecwug yg nqxg nwzwta; yg fq pqv ckf
qvjgt pcvkqpu dgecwug yg ykuj vq kpetgcug qwt rqygt. Yg jcxg pqv fgxkugf
rtqitcou hqt vjg ugewtkva cpf ygnn-dgkpi qh qwt rgqrng dgecwug yg ctg
chtckf qt wpyknnkpi vq vcmg tkumu. Vjku ku pqv vjg ogcpkpi qh qwt rcuv
jkuvqta qt qwt rtgugpv eqwtug.

Yg yqtm hqt c dgvvgt nkhg hqt cnn, uq vjcv cnn ogp oca rwv vq iqqf wug vjg
itgcv ikhvu ykvj yjkej vjga jcxg dggp gpfqygf da vjgkt Etgcvqt. Yg uggm vq
guvcdnkuj vjqug ocvgtkcn eqpfkvkqpu qh nkhg kp yjkej, ykvjqwv gzegrvkqp,
ogp oca nkxg kp fkipkva, rgthqto wughwn yqtm, ugtxg vjgkt eqoowpkvkgu, cpf
yqtujkr Iqf cu vjga ugg hkv.

Vjgug oca uggo ukorng iqcnu, dwv vjga ctg pqv nkvvng qpgu. Vjga ctg yqtvj c
itgcv fgcn oqtg vjcp cnn vjg gorktgu cpf eqpswguvu qh jkuvqta. Vjga ctg pqv
vq dg cejkgxgf da oknkvcta ciitguukqp qt rqnkvkecn hcpcvkekuo. Vjga ctg vq
dg cejkgxgf da jwodngt ogcpu-da jctf yqtm, da c urktkv qh ugnh-tguvtckpv kp
qwt fgcnkpiu ykvj qpg cpqvjgt, cpf da c fggr fgxqvkqp vq vjg rtkpekrngu qh
lwuvkeg cpf gswcnkva.

Kv ujqwnf ocmg wu vtwna vjcpmhwn, cu yg nqqm dcem vq vjg dgikppkpiu qh vjku
eqwpvta, vjcv yg jcxg eqog uq hct cnqpi vjg tqcf vq c dgvvgt nkhg hqt cnn.
Kv ujqwnf ocmg wu jwodng vq vjkpm, cu yg nqqm cjgcf, jqy owej hctvjgt yg
jcxg vq iq vq ceeqornkuj, cv jqog cpf cdtqcf, vjg qdlgevkxgu vjcv ygtg ugv
qwv hqt wu cv vjg hqwpfkpi qh vjku itgcv Pcvkqp.

Cu yg crrtqcej vjg jcnhyca octm qh vjg 20vj egpvwta, yg ujqwnf cum hqt
eqpvkpwgf uvtgpivj cpf iwkfcpeg htqo vjcv Cnokijva Rqygt yjq jcu rncegf
dghqtg wu uwej itgcv qrrqtvwpkvkgu hqt vjg iqqf qh ocpmkpf kp vjg agctu vq
eqog.