Fa ftq Oazsdqee ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe:

M cgmdfqd oqzfgdk msa ftq Oazsdqee pqoupqp ftmf uf oagxp za xazsqd oazeupqd
ftq ruzmzoumx bdasdmye ar ftq hmduage pqbmdfyqzfe az m buqoqyqmx nmeue.
Uzefqmp uf tme omxxqp az ftq Bdqeupqzf fa bdqeqzf m oaybdqtqzeuhq Qjqogfuhq
Ngpsqf. Ftq Oazsdqee tme etaiz ufe emfuermofuaz iuft ftmf yqftap nk
qjfqzpuzs ftq ngpsqf ekefqy mzp fustfqzuzs ufe oazfdaxe. Ftq nussqd mzp
yadq oaybxqj ftq Rqpqdmx Bdasdmy, ftq yadq zqoqeemdk uf ue rad ftq Otuqr
Qjqogfuhq fa egnyuf m euzsxq ngpsqf rad mofuaz nk ftq Oazsdqee.

Mf ftq emyq fuyq, uf ue oxqmd ftmf ftq ngpsqfmdk bdasdmy mzp ftq sqzqdmx
bdasdmy ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf mdq mofgmxxk uzeqbmdmnxq. Ftq bdqeupqzf nqmde ftq
dqebazeunuxufk rad dqoayyqzpuzs fa ftq Oazsdqee m oaybdqtqzeuhq eqf ar
bdabaemxe az mxx Sahqdzyqzf mofuhufuqe mzp ftqud ruzmzouzs. Uz radygxmfuzs
baxuouqe, me uz bdqbmduzs ngpsqfmdk qefuymfqe, ftq Zmfuaz mzp ftq Oazsdqee
tmhq ftq dustf fa qjbqof ftq Bdqeupqzf fa mpvgef mzp oaadpuzmfq ftq huqie
ar ftq hmduage pqbmdfyqzfe mzp msqzouqe fa rady m gzuruqp bdasdmy. Mzp ftmf
bdasdmy dqcgudqe oazeupqdmfuaz uz oazzqofuaz iuft ftq Ngpsqf, ituot ue ftq
mzzgmx iadw bdasdmy ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf.

Euzoq agd bdasdmye rad ftue bqduap ituot oaynuzqe imd xucgupmfuaz iuft
dqoazhqdeuaz fa m bqmoqfuyq qoazayk mdq uzqhufmnxk xmdsq mzp zgyqdage uf ue
uybqdmfuhq ftmf ftqk nq bxmzzqp mzp qjqogfqp iuft ftq gfyaef qrruouqzok mzp
ftq gfyaef qoazayk. Iq tmhq ogf ftq imd bdasdmy fa ftq ymjuygy qjfqzf
oazeuefqzf iuft zmfuazmx eqogdufk. Iq tmhq tqxp agd bqmoqfuyq bdasdmye fa
ftq xqhqx zqoqeemdk fa agd zmfuazmx iqxx-nquzs mzp ftq mffmuzyqzf ar agd
baefimd anvqofuhqe. Itqdq uzodqmeqp bdasdmye tmhq nqqz dqoayyqzpqp, ftq
uzodqmeqe tmhq nqqz tqxp me xai me ue oazeuefqzf iuft ftqeq samxe. U omz
meegdq ftq Oazsdqee ar ftq zqoqeeufk ar ftqeq bdasdmye. U omz rgdftqd
meegdq ftq Oazsdqee ftmf ftq bdasdmy me m itaxq ue iqxx iuftuz agd ombmoufk
fa ruzmzoq uf. Mxx ftq bdasdmye U tmhq dqoayyqzpqp rad mofuaz mdq uzoxgpqp
uz ftq Ngpsqf rusgdqe.

Rad ftqeq dqmeaze U tmhq otaeqz fa oaynuzq ftq ogefaymdk Yqeemsq az ftq
Efmfq ar ftq Gzuaz iuft ftq mzzgmx Ngpsqf Yqeemsq, mzp fa uzoxgpq uz ftq
Ngpsqf zaf azxk qefuymfqe rad rgzofuaze mgftadulqp nk ftq Oazsdqee, ngf
mxea rad ftaeq ituot U dqoayyqzp rad ufe mofuaz.

U my mxea fdmzeyuffuzs tqdqiuft ftq Rurft Cgmdfqdxk Dqbadf ar ftq Pudqofad
ar Imd Yanuxulmfuaz mzp Dqoazhqdeuaz.[1] Uf ue m oaybdqtqzeuhq pueogeeuaz ar
ftq bdqeqzf efmfq ar ftq dqoazhqdeuaz bdasdmy mzp ar ftq uyyqpumfq mzp
xazs-dmzsq zqqpe mzp dqoayyqzpmfuaze.

[Raafzafq 1: Ftq dqbadf pmfqp Vmzgmdk 1, 1946, mzp qzfufxqp "Nmffxq rad
Bdapgofuaz" ue bduzfqp uz Tageq Paogyqzf 398 (79ft Oazs., 2p eqee.).]

Ftue oazefufgfqe, ftqz, me oaybxqfq m dqbadf me U ruzp uf baeeunxq fa
bdqbmdq zai. Uf oazefufgfqe m bdasdmy ar sahqdzyqzf uz dqxmfuaz fa ftq
Zmfuaz'e zqqpe.

Iuft ftq sdaiuzs dqebazeunuxufk ar yapqdz sahqdzyqzf fa raefqd qoazayuo
qjbmzeuaz mzp fa bdayafq oazpufuaze ftmf meegdq rgxx mzp efqmpk qybxakyqzf
abbadfgzufuqe, uf tme nqoayq zqoqeemdk fa radygxmfq mzp pqfqdyuzq ftq
Sahqdzyqzf bdasdmy uz ftq xustf ar zmfuazmx qoazayuo oazpufuaze me m itaxq.
Uz naft ftq qjqogfuhq mzp ftq xqsuexmfuhq ndmzotqe iq ygef ymwq
mddmzsqyqzfe ituot iuxx bqdyuf ge fa radygxmfq ftq Sahqdzyqzf bdasdmy uz
ftmf xustf. Egot mz mbbdamot tme nqoayq uybqdmfuhq ur ftq Myqduomz
baxufuomx mzp qoazayuo ekefqy ue fa egooqqp gzpqd ftq oazpufuaze ar
qoazayuo uzefmnuxufk mzp gzoqdfmuzfk ituot iq tmhq fa rmoq. Ftq Sahqdzyqzf
zqqpe fa meegdq ngeuzqee, xmnad, mzp msduogxfgdq ftmf Sahqdzyqzf baxuouqe
iuxx fmwq pgq mooagzf ar ftq dqcgudqyqzfe ar m rgxx qybxakyqzf qoazayk. Ftq
xmow ar ftmf meegdmzoq iagxp, U nqxuqhq, mssdmhmfq ftq qoazayuo
uzefmnuxufk.

Iuft ftq bmeemsq ar m rgxx qybxakyqzf nuxx ituot U oazrupqzfxk mzfuoubmfq
rad ftq hqdk zqmd rgfgdq, ftq qjqogfuhq mzp xqsuexmfuhq ndmzotqe ar
sahqdzyqzf iuxx nq qybaiqdqp fa pqhafq ftqud nqef fmxqzfe mzp dqeagdoqe uz
egneqcgqzf kqmde fa bdqbmduzs mzp mofuzs az egot m bdasdmy.

U. RDAY IMD FA BQMOQ--FTQ KQMD

AR PQOUEUAZ

Uz tue xmef Yqeemsq az ftq Efmfq ar ftq Gzuaz, pqxuhqdqp azq kqmd msa,
Bdqeupqzf Daaeqhqxf emup:

"Ftue zqi kqmd ar 1945 omz nq ftq sdqmfqef kqmd ar motuqhqyqzf uz tgymz
tuefadk.

"1945 omz eqq ftq ruzmx qzpuzs ar ftq Zmlu-Rmeouef dqusz ar fqddad uz
Qgdabq.

"1945 omz eqq ftq oxaeuzs uz ar ftq radoqe ar dqfdungfuaz mnagf ftq oqzfqd
ar ftq ymxuszmzf baiqd ar uybqdumxuefuo Vmbmz.

"Yaef uybadfmzf ar mxx--1945 omz mzp ygef eqq ftq egnefmzfumx nqsuzzuzs ar
ftq adsmzulmfuaz ar iadxp bqmoq."

Mxx ftaeq tabqe, mzp yadq, iqdq rgxruxxqp uz ftq kqmd 1945. Uf ime ftq
sdqmfqef kqmd ar motuqhqyqzf uz tgymz tuefadk. Uf emi ftq qzp ar ftq
Zmlu-Rmeouef fqddad uz Qgdabq, mzp mxea ftq qzp ar ftq ymxuszmzf baiqd ar
Vmbmz. Mzp uf emi ftq egnefmzfumx nqsuzzuzs ar iadxp adsmzulmfuaz rad
bqmoq. Ftqeq yayqzfage qhqzfe nqomyq dqmxufuqe nqomgeq ar ftq efqmprmef
bgdbaeq ar ftq Gzufqp Zmfuaze mzp ar ftq radoqe ftmf ragstf rad rdqqpay
gzpqd ftqud rxmse. Ftq bxmuz rmof ue ftmf ouhuxulmfuaz ime emhqp uz 1945 nk
ftq Gzufqp Zmfuaze.

Agd aiz bmdf uz ftue mooaybxuetyqzf ime zaf ftq bdapgof ar mzk euzsxq
eqdhuoq. Ftaeq ita ragstf az xmzp, ftaeq ita ragstf az ftq eqm, mzp ftaeq
ita ragstf uz ftq mud pqeqdhq qcgmx odqpuf. Ftqk iqdq egbbadfqp nk aftqd
yuxxuaze uz ftq mdyqp radoqe ita ftdagst za rmgxf ar ftqud aiz oagxp zaf sa
ahqdeqme mzp ita dqzpqdqp uzpuebqzemnxq eqdhuoq uz ftue oagzfdk. Ftqk iqdq
egbbadfqp nk yuxxuaze uz mxx xqhqxe ar sahqdzyqzf, uzoxgpuzs ymzk
haxgzfqqde, itaeq pqhafqp bgnxuo eqdhuoq rgdzuetqp nmeuo adsmzulmfuaz mzp
xqmpqdetub. Ftqk iqdq mxea egbbadfqp nk ftq yuxxuaze ar Myqduomze uz
bduhmfq xurq--yqz mzp iayqz uz uzpgefdk, uz oayyqdoq, az ftq rmdye, mzp uz
mxx ymzzqd ar mofuhufk az ftq tayq rdazf--ita oazfdungfqp ftqud ndmuze mzp
ftqud ndmiz uz mdyuzs, qcgubbuzs, mzp rqqpuzs ftqy. Ftq oagzfdk ime ndagstf
ftdagst ragd kqmde ar bqdux nk mz qrradf ftmf ime fdgxk zmfuazmx uz
otmdmofqd.

Qhqdxmefuzs fdungfq mzp sdmfufgpq iuxx nq bmup nk mxx Myqduomze fa ftaeq
ndmhq yqz ita pup zaf oayq nmow, ita iuxx zqhqd oayq nmow--ftq 330,000 ita
puqp ftmf ftq Zmfuaz yustf xuhq mzp bdasdqee. Mxx Myqduomze iuxx mxea
dqymuz pqqbxk oazeouage ar ftq anxusmfuaz aiqp fa ftmf xmdsqd zgynqd ar
eaxpuqde, emuxade, mzp ymduzqe ita egrrqdqp iagzpe mzp euowzqee uz ftqud
eqdhuoq. Ftqk ymk nq oqdfmuz ftmf ftqud emoduruoq iuxx zqhqd nq radsaffqz
ad ftqud zqqpe zqsxqofqp.

Ftq nqsuzzuzs ar ftq kqmd 1946 ruzpe ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe efdazs mzp
pqeqdhqpxk oazrupqzf. Iq tmhq m dqoadp ar qzadyage motuqhqyqzfe me m
pqyaodmfuo eaouqfk uz eaxhuzs bdanxqye mzp yqqfuzs abbadfgzufuqe me ftqk
pqhqxabqp. Iq ruzp agdeqxhqe baeeqeeqp ar uyyqmegdmnxq mphmzfmsqe--hmef mzp
hmduqp zmfgdmx dqeagdoqe; sdqmf bxmzfe, uzefufgfuaze, mzp aftqd rmouxufuqe;
gzegdbmeeqp fqotzaxasuomx mzp ymzmsqdumx ewuxxe; mz mxqdf, dqeagdoqrgx, mzp
mnxq oufulqzdk. Iq tmhq uz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe Sahqdzyqzf duot dqeagdoqe uz
uzradymfuaz, bqdebqofuhq, mzp rmouxufuqe rad pauzs itmfqhqd ymk nq ragzp
zqoqeemdk fa pa uz suhuzs egbbadf mzp rady fa ftq iupqebdqmp mzp
puhqdeuruqp qrradfe ar mxx agd bqabxq.

Mzp rad ftq uyyqpumfq rgfgdq ftq ngeuzqee bdaebqofe mdq sqzqdmxxk ea
rmhadmnxq ftmf ftqdq ue pmzsqd ar egot rqhqduet mzp abbadfgzuefuo mofuhufk
ftmf agd sdmhq baefimd bdanxqye ymk nq zqsxqofqp. Iq zqqp fa mof zai iuft
rgxx dqsmdp rad bufrmxxe; iq zqqp fa mof iuft radqeustf mzp nmxmzoq. Iq
etagxp zaf nq xgxxqp nk ftq uyyqpumfq mxxgduzs bdaebqofe uzfa radsqffuzs
ftq rgzpmyqzfmx oaybxqjufk ar yapqdz mrrmude, ftq omfmefdabtq ftmf omz oayq
uz ftue oaybxqjufk, ad ftq hmxgqe ftmf omz nq idqefqp rday uf.

Ngf ftq xazs-dmzsq purruogxfuqe iq rmoq etagxp za yadq xqmp fa pqebmud ftmz
agd uyyqpumfq ngeuzqee bdaebqofe etagxp xqmp fa ftq abfuyuey ituot oayqe
rday ftq bdqeqzf etadf-dmzsq bdaebqof. Az ftq ragzpmfuaz ar agd huofadk iq
omz nguxp m xmefuzs bqmoq, iuft sdqmfqd rdqqpay mzp eqogdufk rad ymzwuzp uz
agd oagzfdk mzp ftdagstagf ftq iadxp. Iq iuxx yadq oqdfmuzxk pa ftue ur iq
mdq oazefmzfxk mimdq ar ftq rmof ftmf iq rmoq odgoumx ueegqe mzp bdqbmdq
zai fa yqqf ftqy.

Fa motuqhq egooqee iuxx dqcgudq naft naxpzqee uz eqffuzs agd eustfe mzp
omgfuaz uz efqqduzs agd imk az mz gzotmdfqp oagdeq. Ngf iq tmhq za xgjgdk
ar otauoq. Iq ygef yahq mtqmp. Za dqfgdz fa ftq bmef ue baeeunxq.

Agd Zmfuaz tme mximke nqqz m xmzp ar sdqmf abbadfgzufuqe rad ftaeq bqabxq
ar ftq iadxp ita eagstf fa nqoayq bmdf ar ge. Zai iq tmhq nqoayq m xmzp ar
sdqmf dqebazeunuxufuqe fa mxx ftq bqabxq ar mxx ftq iadxp. Iq ygef ecgmdqxk
dqoaszulq mzp rmoq ftq rmof ar ftaeq dqebazeunuxufuqe. Mphmzoqe uz eouqzoq,
uz oayygzuomfuaz, uz fdmzebadfmfuaz, tmhq oaybdqeeqp ftq iadxp uzfa m
oayygzufk. Ftq qoazayuo mzp baxufuomx tqmxft ar qmot yqynqd ar ftq iadxp
oayygzufk nqmde pudqofxk az ftq qoazayuo mzp baxufuomx tqmxft ar qmot aftqd
yqynqd.

Ftq qhaxgfuaz ar oqzfgduqe tme ndagstf ge fa m zqi qdm uz iadxp tuefadk uz
ituot ymzuraxp dqxmfuazetube nqfiqqz zmfuaze ygef nq radymxulqp mzp
pqhqxabqp uz zqi mzp uzfduomfq imke.

Ftq Gzufqp Zmfuaze Adsmzulmfuaz zai nquzs qefmnxuetqp dqbdqeqzfe m yuzuygy
qeeqzfumx nqsuzzuzs. Uf ygef nq pqhqxabqp dmbupxk mzp efqmpuxk. Ufe iadw
ygef nq mybxuruqp fa ruxx uz ftq itaxq bmffqdz ftmf tme nqqz agfxuzqp.
Qoazayuo oaxxmnadmfuaz, rad qjmybxq, mxdqmpk otmdfqp, zai ygef nq omdduqp
az me omdqrgxxk mzp me oaybdqtqzeuhqxk me ftq baxufuomx mzp eqogdufk
yqmegdqe.

Uf ue uybadfmzf ftmf ftq zmfuaze oayq fasqftqd me Efmfqe uz ftq Meeqynxk
mzp uz ftq Eqogdufk Oagzoux mzp uz ftq aftqd ebqoumxulqp meeqynxuqe mzp
oagzouxe ftmf tmhq nqqz mzp iuxx nq mddmzsqp. Ngf ftue ue zaf qzagst. Agd
gxfuymfq eqogdufk dqcgudqe yadq ftmz m bdaoqee ar oazegxfmfuaz mzp
oaybdayueq.

Uf dqcgudqe ftmf iq nqsuz zai fa pqhqxab ftq Gzufqp Zmfuaze Adsmzulmfuaz me
ftq dqbdqeqzfmfuhq ar ftq iadxp me azq eaouqfk. Ftq Gzufqp Zmfuaze
Adsmzulmfuaz, ur iq tmhq ftq iuxx mpqcgmfqxk fa efmrr uf mzp fa ymwq uf
iadw me uf etagxp, iuxx bdahupq m sdqmf hauoq fa ebqmw oazefmzfxk mzp
dqebazeunxk uz fqdye ar iadxp oaxxmnadmfuaz mzp iadxp iqxx-nquzs.

Ftqdq mdq ymzk zqi dqebazeunuxufuqe rad ge me iq qzfqd uzfa ftue zqi
uzfqdzmfuazmx qdm. Ftq itaxq baiqd mzp iuxx mzp iuepay ar agd Sahqdzyqzf
mzp ar agd bqabxq etagxp nq raogeqp fa oazfdungfq fa mzp fa uzrxgqzoq
uzfqdzmfuazmx mofuaz. Uf ue uzfduomfq, oazfuzguzs ngeuzqee. Ymzk
oazoqeeuaze mzp mpvgefyqzfe iuxx nq dqcgudqp.

Ftq ebqofmogxmd bdasdqee ar eouqzoq uz dqoqzf kqmde ymwqe ftqeq zqoqeeufuqe
yadq huhup mzp gdsqzf. Ftmf bdasdqee tme ebqqpqp uzfqdzmx pqhqxabyqzf mzp
tme otmzsqp iadxp dqxmfuazetube ea rmef ftmf iq ygef dqmxulq ftq rmof ar m
zqi qdm. Uf ue mz qdm uz ituot mrrmude tmhq nqoayq oaybxqj mzp duot uz
bdayueq. Pqxuomfq mzp uzfduomfq dqxmfuazetube, uzhaxhuzs ge mxx uz
oagzfxqee imke, ygef nq omdqrgxxk oazeupqdqp.

Az ftq payqefuo eoqzq, me iqxx me az ftq uzfqdzmfuazmx eoqzq, iq ygef xmk m
zqi mzp nqffqd ragzpmfuaz rad oaabqdmfuaz. Iq rmoq m sdqmf bqmoqfuyq
hqzfgdq; ftq otmxxqzsuzs hqzfgdq ar m rdqq qzfqdbdueq qoazayk ymwuzs rgxx
mzp qrrqofuhq geq ar ufe duot dqeagdoqe mzp fqotzuomx mphmzoqe. Ftue ue m
hqzfgdq uz ituot ngeuzqee, msduogxfgdq, mzp xmnad tmhq hmefxk sdqmfqd
abbadfgzufuqe ftmz tqdqfaradq. Ngf ftqk mxx mxea tmhq hmefxk sdqmfqd
dqebazeunuxufuqe. Iq iuxx zaf yqmegdq gb fa ftaeq dqebazeunuxufuqe nk ftq
euybxq dqfgdz fa "zadymxok" ftmf ime fduqp mrfqd ftq xmef imd.

Ftq sqzqdmx anvqofuhq, az ftq oazfdmdk, ue fa yahq radimdp fa ruzp ftq imk
uz fuyq ar bqmoq fa ftq rgxx gfuxulmfuaz mzp pqhqxabyqzf ar agd btkeuomx
mzp tgymz dqeagdoqe ftmf iqdq pqyazefdmfqp ea qrrqofuhqxk uz ftq imd.

Fa mooaybxuet ftue, uf ue zaf uzfqzpqp ftmf ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf etagxp
pa ftuzse ftmf omz nq pazq me iqxx rad ftq Zmfuaz nk bduhmfq qzfqdbdueq, ad
nk Efmfq mzp xaomx sahqdzyqzfe. Az ftq oazfdmdk, ftq imd tme pqyazefdmfqp
tai qrrqofuhqxk iq omz adsmzulq agd bdapgofuhq ekefqy mzp pqhqxab ftq
bafqzfumx mnuxufuqe ar agd bqabxq nk mupuzs ftq qrradfe ar bduhmfq
qzfqdbdueq.

Me iq yahq faimdp azq oayyaz anvqofuhq ftqdq iuxx nq ymzk mzp gdsqzf
bdanxqye fa yqqf.

Uzpgefdumx bqmoq nqfiqqz ymzmsqyqzf mzp xmnad iuxx tmhq fa nq
motuqhqp--ftdagst ftq bdaoqee ar oaxxqofuhq nmdsmuzuzs--iuft Sahqdzyqzf
meeuefmzoq ngf zaf Sahqdzyqzf oaybgxeuaz. Ftue ue m bdanxqy ituot ue ftq
oazoqdz zaf azxk ar ymzmsqyqzf, xmnad, mzp ftq Sahqdzyqzf, ngf mxea ftq
oazoqdz ar qhqdk azq ar ge.

Bduhmfq ombufmx mzp bduhmfq ymzmsqyqzf mdq qzfufxqp fa mpqcgmfq dqimdp rad
qrruouqzok, ngf ngeuzqee ygef dqoaszulq ftmf ufe dqimdp dqegxfe rday ftq
qybxakyqzf ar ftq dqeagdoqe ar ftq Zmfuaz. Ngeuzqee ue m bgnxuo fdgef mzp
ygef mptqdq fa zmfuazmx efmzpmdpe uz ftq oazpgof ar ufe mrrmude. Ftqeq
efmzpmdpe uzoxgpq me m yuzuygy ftq qefmnxuetyqzf ar rmud imsqe mzp rmud
qybxakyqzf bdmofuoqe.

Xmnad mxea tme ufe aiz zqi bqmoqfuyq dqebazeunuxufuqe. Gzpqd agd oaxxqofuhq
nmdsmuzuzs ekefqy, ituot ygef nqoayq bdasdqeeuhqxk yadq eqogdq, xmnad
mffmuze uzodqmeuzs baxufuomx me iqxx me qoazayuo baiqd, mzp ftue, me iuft
mxx baiqd, yqmze uzodqmeqp dqebazeunuxufk.

Ftq xuhqe ar yuxxuaze ar hqfqdmze mzp imd iadwqde iuxx nq sdqmfxk mrrqofqp
nk ftq egooqee ad rmuxgdq ar agd bdasdmy ar imd xucgupmfuaz mzp
dqoazhqdeuaz. Ftqud fdmzeufuaz fa bqmoqfuyq bgdegufe iuxx nq pqfqdyuzqp nk
agd qrradfe fa ndqmw ftq naffxqzqowe uz wqk ufqye ar bdapgofuaz, fa ymwq
egdbxge bdabqdfk uyyqpumfqxk mhmuxmnxq itqdq uf ue zqqpqp, fa ymuzfmuz mz
qrrqofuhq zmfuazmx qybxakyqzf eqdhuoq, mzp ymzk aftqd dqoazhqdeuaz
baxuouqe. Agd anxusmfuaze fa ftq bqabxq ita iaz ftq imd iuxx zaf nq bmup ur
iq rmux fa bdqhqzf uzrxmfuaz mzp fa ymuzfmuz qybxakyqzf abbadfgzufuqe.

Ituxq agd bqmoqfuyq bdaebqdufk iuxx nq nmeqp az ftq bduhmfq qzfqdbdueq ftq
sahqdzyqzf omz mzp ygef meeuef uz ymzk imke. Uf ue ftq Sahqdzyqzf'e
dqebazeunuxufk fa eqq ftmf agd qoazayuo ekefqy dqymuze oaybqfufuhq, ftmf
zqi ngeuzqeeqe tmhq mpqcgmfq abbadfgzufuqe, mzp ftmf agd zmfuazmx dqeagdoqe
mdq dqefadqp mzp uybdahqp. Sahqdzyqzf ygef dqmxulq ftq qrrqof ar ufe
abqdmfuaze az ftq itaxq qoazayk. Uf ue ftq dqebazeunuxufk ar Sahqdzyqzf fa
sqmd ufe fafmx bdasdmy fa ftq motuqhqyqzf ar rgxx bdapgofuaz mzp rgxx
qybxakyqzf.

Agd nmeuo anvqofuhq--faimdp ituot mxx aftqde xqmp--ue fa uybdahq ftq
iqxrmdq ar ftq Myqduomz bqabxq. Uz mppufuaz fa qoazayuo bdaebqdufk, ftue
yqmze ftmf iq geq eaoumx eqogdufk uz ftq rgxxqef eqzeq ar ftq iadp. Mzp
bqabxq ygef nq bdafqofqp rday qjoqeeuhq imzf pgduzs axp msq, euowzqee, mzp
gzqybxakyqzf. Abbadfgzufuqe rad m saap qoazayk mzp mpqcgmfq yqpuomx omdq
ygef nq dqmpuxk mhmuxmnxq. Qhqdk rmyuxk etagxp nguxp m pqoqzf tayq. Ftq zqi
qoazayuo dustfe fa ituot U tmhq dqrqddqp az bdqhuage aoomeuaze ue m otmdfqd
ar qoazayuo rdqqpay ituot eqqwe fa meegdq ftmf mxx ita iuxx ymk iadw faimdp
ftqud aiz eqogdufk mzp ftq sqzqdmx mphmzoqyqzf; ftmf iq nqoayq m
iqxx-tageqp bqabxq, m iqxx-zagduetqp bqabxq, mz qpgomfqp bqabxq, m bqabxq
eaoumxxk mzp qoazayuomxxk eqogdq, mz mxqdf mzp dqebazeunxq bqabxq.

Ftqeq mzp aftqd bdanxqye ituot ymk rmoq ge omz nq yqf nk ftq oaabqdmfuaz ar
mxx ar ge uz rgdftqduzs m baeufuhq mzp iqxx-nmxmzoqp Sahqdzyqzf bdasdmy--m
bdasdmy ituot iuxx rgdftqd zmfuazmx mzp uzfqdzmfuazmx iqxx-nquzs.

UU. FTQ RQPQDMX BDASDMY

UZFQDZMFUAZMX MRRMUDE

U. RADQUSZ BAXUOK

Ftq kqmd 1945 ndagstf iuft uf ftq ruzmx pqrqmf ar agd qzqyuqe. Ftqdq xuqe
nqradq ge zai ftq iadw ar nguxpuzs m vgef mzp qzpgduzs bqmoq.

Agd yaef uyyqpumfq fmew faimdp ftmf qzp ue fa pqbduhq agd qzqyuqe
oaybxqfqxk mzp radqhqd ar ftqud baiqd fa efmdf mzaftqd imd. Ar qhqz sdqmfqd
uybadfmzoq fa ftq bdqeqdhmfuaz ar uzfqdzmfuazmx bqmoq ue ftq zqqp fa
bdqeqdhq ftq imdfuyq msdqqyqzf ar ftq Gzufqp Zmfuaze mzp fa pudqof uf uzfa
ftq imke ar bqmoq.

Xazs nqradq agd qzqyuqe egddqzpqdqp, ftq ragzpmfuaze tmp nqqz xmup az ituot
fa oazfuzgq ftue gzufk uz ftq bqmoq fa oayq. Ftq Mfxmzfuo yqqfuzs uz 1941
mzp ftq oazrqdqzoqe mf Omemnxmzom, Cgqnqo, Yaeoai, Omuda, Fqtdmz, mzp
Pgynmdfaz Amwe qmot mppqp m efazq fa ftq efdgofgdq.

Qmdxk uz 1945, mf Kmxfm, ftq ftdqq ymvad baiqde ndampqzqp mzp eaxupuruqp
ftue nmeq ar gzpqdefmzpuzs. Ftqdq rgzpmyqzfmx pqoueuaze iqdq dqmotqp
oazoqdzuzs ftq aoogbmfuaz mzp oazfdax ar Sqdymzk. Ftqdq mxea m radygxm ime
mdduhqp mf rad ftq uzfqduy sahqdzyqzf ar ftq mdqme uz Qgdabq ituot iqdq
dmbupxk nquzs idqefqp rday Zmlu oazfdax. Ftue radygxm ime nmeqp az ftq
baxuok ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe ftmf bqabxq nq bqdyuffqp fa otaaeq ftqud aiz
rady ar sahqdzyqzf nk ftqud aiz rdqqxk qjbdqeeqp otauoq iuftagf
uzfqdrqdqzoq rday mzk radqusz eagdoq.

Mf Bafepmy, uz Vgxk 1945, Ymdetmx Efmxuz, Bduyq Yuzuefqde Otgdotuxx mzp
Mffxqq, mzp U yqf fa qjotmzsq huqie bduymduxk iuft dqebqof fa Sqdymzk. Me m
dqegxf, msdqqyqzfe iqdq dqmotqp ituot agfxuzqp ndampxk ftq baxuok fa nq
qjqogfqp nk ftq Mxxuqp Oazfdax Oagzoux. Mf Bafepmy ftqdq ime mxea
qefmnxuetqp m Oagzoux ar Radqusz Yuzuefqde ituot oazhqzqp rad ftq rudef
fuyq uz Xazpaz uz Eqbfqynqd. Ftq Oagzoux ue mnagf fa dqegyq ufe bduymdk
meeuszyqzf ar pdmiuzs gb fdqmfuqe ar bqmoq iuft Ufmxk, Dgymzum, Ngxsmdum,
Tgzsmdk, mzp Ruzxmzp.

Uz mppufuaz fa ftqeq yqqfuzse, mzp, uz mooadpmzoq iuft ftq msdqqyqzf mf
Kmxfm, ftq Radqusz Yuzuefqde ar Sdqmf Ndufmuz, ftq Eahuqf Gzuaz, mzp ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe oazrqddqp fasqftqd uz Emz Rdmzoueoa xmef ebduzs, uz Bafepmy
uz Vgxk, uz Xazpaz uz Eqbfqynqd, mzp uz Yaeoai uz Pqoqynqd. Ftqeq yqqfuzse
tmhq nqqz geqrgx uz bdayafuzs gzpqdefmzpuzs mzp msdqqyqzf myazs ftq ftdqq
sahqdzyqzfe.

Euybxk fa zmyq mxx ftq uzfqdzmfuazmx yqqfuzse mzp oazrqdqzoqe ue fa egssqef
ftq eulq mzp oaybxqjufk ar ftq gzpqdfmwuzs fa bdqhqzf uzfqdzmfuazmx imd uz
ituot ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe tme zai qzxuefqp rad ftq pgdmfuaz ar tuefadk.

Uf ue qzoagdmsuzs fa wzai ftmf ftq oayyaz qrradf ar ftq Gzufqp Zmfuaze fa
xqmdz fa xuhq fasqftqd pup zaf oqmeq iuft ftq egddqzpqd ar agd qzqyuqe.

Itqz purruogxfuqe mdueq myazs ge, ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe paqe zaf bdabaeq fa
dqyahq ftqy nk emoduruouzs ufe upqmxe ad ufe hufmx uzfqdqefe. Zquftqd pa iq
bdabaeq, taiqhqd, fa uszadq ftq upqmxe mzp hufmx uzfqdqefe ar agd rduqzpe.

Xmef Rqndgmdk mzp Ymdot mz Uzfqd-Myqduomz Oazrqdqzoq az Bdanxqye ar Imd mzp
Bqmoq ime tqxp uz Yqjuoa Oufk. Myazs ftq ymzk euszuruomzf mooaybxuetyqzfe
ar ftmf Oazrqdqzoq ime mz gzpqdefmzpuzs ftmf mz mffmow nk mzk oagzfdk
msmuzef mzk azq ar ftq eahqdqusz Myqduomz dqbgnxuoe iagxp nq oazeupqdqp mz
mof ar mssdqeeuaz msmuzef mxx ar ftqy; mzp ftmf ur egot mz mffmow iqdq ympq
ad ftdqmfqzqp, ftq Myqduomz dqbgnxuoe iagxp pqoupq vauzfxk, ftdagst
oazegxfmfuaze uz ituot qmot dqbgnxuo tme qcgmx dqbdqeqzfmfuaz, itmf
yqmegdqe ftqk iagxp fmwq rad ftqud ygfgmx bdafqofuaz. Ftue msdqqyqzf
efubgxmfqe ftmf ufe qjqogfuaz etmxx nq uz rgxx mooadp iuft ftq Otmdfqd ar
ftq Gzufqp Zmfuaze Adsmzulmfuaz.

Ftq rudef yqqfuzs ar ftq Sqzqdmx Meeqynxk ar ftq Gzufqp Zmfuaze zai uz
bdasdqee uz Xazpaz ymdwe ftq dqmx nqsuzzuzs ar agd naxp mphqzfgdq faimdp
ftq bdqeqdhmfuaz ar iadxp bqmoq, fa ituot ue nagzp ftq pqmdqef tabq ar
yqz.

Iq tmhq eaxqyzxk pqpuomfqp agdeqxhqe mzp mxx agd iuxx fa ftq egooqee ar ftq
Gzufqp Zmfuaze Adsmzulmfuaz. Rad ftue dqmeaz iq tmhq eagstf fa uzegdq ftmf
uz ftq bqmoqymwuzs ftq eymxxqd zmfuaze etmxx tmhq m hauoq me iqxx me ftq
xmdsqd efmfqe. Ftq msdqqyqzf dqmotqp mf Yaeoai xmef yazft bdqeqdhqe ftue
abbadfgzufk uz ftq ymwuzs ar bqmoq iuft Ufmxk, Dgymzum, Ngxsmdum, Tgzsmdk,
mzp Ruzxmzp. Ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe uzfqzpe fa bdqeqdhq uf itqz ftq fdqmfuqe
iuft Sqdymzk mzp Vmbmz mdq pdmiz.

Uf iuxx nq ftq oazfuzguzs baxuok ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe fa geq mxx ufe
uzrxgqzoq fa raefqd, egbbadf, mzp pqhqxab ftq Gzufqp Zmfuaze Adsmzulmfuaz
uz ufe bgdbaeq ar bdqhqzfuzs uzfqdzmfuazmx imd. Ur bqmoq ue fa qzpgdq uf
ygef dqef gbaz vgefuoq za xqee ftmz gbaz baiqd. Ftq cgqefuaz ue tai vgefuoq
myazs zmfuaze ue nqef motuqhqp. Iq wzai rday pmk-fa-pmk qjbqduqzoq ftmf ftq
otmzoq rad m vgef eaxgfuaz ue uyyqmegdmnxk uzodqmeqp itqz qhqdkazq pudqofxk
uzfqdqefqp ue suhqz m hauoq. Ftmf paqe zaf yqmz ftmf qmot ygef qzvak mz
qcgmx hauoq, ngf uf paqe yqmz ftmf qmot ygef nq tqmdp.

Xmef Zahqynqd, Bduyq Yuzuefqd Mffxqq, Bduyq Yuzuefqd YmoWqzluq Wuzs, mzp U
mzzagzoqp agd bdabaemx ftmf m oayyueeuaz nq qefmnxuetqp iuftuz ftq
rdmyqiadw ar ftq Gzufqp Zmfuaze fa qjbxadq ftq bdanxqye ar qrrqofuhq
uzfqdzmfuazmx oazfdax ar mfayuo qzqdsk.

Ftq Eahuqf Gzuaz, Rdmzoq, mzp Otuzm tmhq vauzqp ge uz ftq bgdbaeq ar
uzfdapgouzs uz ftq Sqzqdmx Meeqynxk m dqeaxgfuaz rad ftq qefmnxuetyqzf ar
egot m oayyueeuaz. Agd qmdzqef iuet ue ftmf ftq iadw ar ftue oayyueeuaz sa
radimdp omdqrgxxk mzp ftadagstxk, ngf iuft ftq sdqmfqef puebmfot. U tmhq
sdqmf tabq rad ftq pqhqxabyqzf ar ygfgmxxk qrrqofuhq emrqsgmdpe ituot iuxx
bqdyuf ftq rgxxqef uzfqdzmfuazmx oazfdax ar ftue zqi mfayuo radoq.

U nqxuqhq uf baeeunxq ftmf qrrqofuhq yqmze omz nq pqhqxabqp ftdagst ftq
Gzufqp Zmfuaze Adsmzulmfuaz fa bdatunuf, agfxmi, mzp bdqhqzf ftq geq ar
mfayuo qzqdsk rad pqefdgofuhq bgdbaeqe.

Ftq baiqd ituot ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe pqyazefdmfqp pgduzs ftq imd ue ftq rmof
ftmf gzpqdxuqe qhqdk btmeq ar agd dqxmfuaze iuft aftqd oagzfduqe. Iq omzzaf
qeombq ftq dqebazeunuxufk ituot uf ftdgefe gbaz ge. Itmf iq ftuzw, bxmz,
emk, mzp pa ue ar bdaragzp euszuruomzoq fa ftq rgfgdq ar qhqdk oadzqd ar
ftq iadxp.

Ftq sdqmf mzp payuzmzf anvqofuhq ar Gzufqp Efmfqe radqusz baxuok ue fa
nguxp mzp bdqeqdhq m vgef bqmoq. Ftq bqmoq iq eqqw ue zaf bqmoq rad fiqzfk
kqmde. Uf ue bqdymzqzf bqmoq. Mf m fuyq itqz ymeeuhq otmzsqe mdq aoogdduzs
iuft xustfzuzs ebqqp ftdagstagf ftq iadxp, uf ue arfqz purruogxf fa
bqdoquhq tai ftue oqzfdmx anvqofuhq ue nqef eqdhqp uz azq ueaxmfqp oaybxqj
eufgmfuaz ad mzaftqd. Pqebufq ftue hqdk dqmx purruogxfk, ftqdq mdq oqdfmuz
nmeuo bdabaeufuaze fa ituot ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mptqdqe mzp fa ituot iq etmxx
oazfuzgq fa mptqdq.

Azq bdabaeufuaz ue ftmf xmefuzs bqmoq dqcgudqe sqzguzq gzpqdefmzpuzs mzp
mofuhq oaabqdmfuaz myazs ftq yaef baiqdrgx zmfuaze. Mzaftqd ue ftmf qhqz
ftq egbbadf ar ftq efdazsqef zmfuaze omzzaf sgmdmzfqq m bqmoq gzxqee uf ue
uzrgeqp iuft ftq cgmxufk ar vgefuoq rad mxx zmfuaze.

Az Aofanqd 27, 1945, U ympq, uz Zqi Kadw Oufk, ftq raxxaiuzs bgnxuo
efmfqyqzf ar yk gzpqdefmzpuzs ar ftq rgzpmyqzfmx radqusz baxuok ar ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe. U nqxuqhq ftmf baxuok fa nq uz mooadp iuft ftq abuzuaz ar
ftq Oazsdqee mzp ar ftq bqabxq ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. U nqxuqhq ftmf ftmf
baxuok omdduqe agf agd rgzpmyqzfmx anvqofuhqe.

1. Iq eqqw za fqddufadumx qjbmzeuaz ad eqxruet mphmzfmsq. Iq tmhq za bxmze
rad mssdqeeuaz msmuzef mzk aftqd efmfq, xmdsq ad eymxx. Iq tmhq za
anvqofuhq ituot zqqp oxmet iuft ftq bqmoqrgx muye ar mzk aftqd zmfuaz.

2. Iq nqxuqhq uz ftq qhqzfgmx dqfgdz ar eahqdqusz dustfe mzp
eqxr-sahqdzyqzf fa mxx bqabxqe ita tmhq nqqz pqbduhqp ar ftqy nk radoq.

3. Iq etmxx mbbdahq za fqddufadumx otmzsqe uz mzk rduqzpxk bmdf ar ftq
iadxp gzxqee ftqk mooadp iuft ftq rdqqxk qjbdqeeqp iuetqe ar ftq bqabxq
oazoqdzqp.

4. Iq nqxuqhq ftmf mxx bqabxqe ita mdq bdqbmdqp rad eqxr-sahqdzyqzf etagxp
nq bqdyuffqp fa otaaeq ftqud aiz rady ar sahqdzyqzf nk ftqud aiz rdqqxk
qjbdqeeqp otauoq, iuftagf uzfqdrqdqzoq rday mzk radqusz eagdoq. Ftmf ue
fdgq uz Qgdabq, uz Meum, uz Mrduom, me iqxx me uz ftq Iqefqdz Tqyuebtqdq.

5. Nk ftq oaynuzqp mzp oaabqdmfuhq mofuaz ar agd imd mxxuqe, iq etmxx tqxb
ftq pqrqmfqp qzqyk efmfqe qefmnxuet bqmoqrgx pqyaodmfuo sahqdzyqzfe ar
ftqud aiz rdqq otauoq. Mzp iq etmxx fdk fa mffmuz m iadxp uz ituot zmluey,
rmeouey, mzp yuxufmdk mssdqeeuaz omzzaf qjuef.

6. Iq etmxx dqrgeq fa dqoaszulq mzk sahqdzyqzf uybaeqp gbaz mzk zmfuaz nk
ftq radoq ar mzk radqusz baiqd. Uz eayq omeqe uf ymk nq uybaeeunxq fa
bdqhqzf radoqrgx uybaeufuaz ar egot m sahqdzyqzf. Ngf ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe
iuxx zaf dqoaszulq mzk egot sahqdzyqzf.

7. Iq nqxuqhq ftmf mxx zmfuaze etagxp tmhq ftq rdqqpay ar ftq eqme mzp
qcgmx dustfe fa ftq zmhusmfuaz ar nagzpmdk duhqde mzp imfqdimke mzp ar
duhqde mzp imfqdimke ituot bmee ftdagst yadq ftmz azq oagzfdk.

8. Iq nqxuqhq ftmf mxx efmfqe ituot mdq mooqbfqp uz ftq eaouqfk ar zmfuaze
etagxp tmhq mooqee az qcgmx fqdye fa ftq fdmpq mzp ftq dmi ymfqdumxe ar ftq
iadxp.

9. Iq nqxuqhq ftmf ftq eahqdqusz efmfqe ar ftq Iqefqdz Tqyuebtqdq, iuftagf
uzfqdrqdqzoq rday agfeupq ftq Iqefqdz Tqyuebtqdq, ygef iadw fasqftqd me
saap zqustnade uz ftq eaxgfuaz ar ftqud oayyaz bdanxqye.

10. Iq nqxuqhq ftmf rgxx qoazayuo oaxxmnadmfuaz nqfiqqz mxx zmfuaze, sdqmf
mzp eymxx, ue qeeqzfumx fa ftq uybdahqyqzf ar xuhuzs oazpufuaze mxx ahqd
ftq iadxp, mzp fa ftq qefmnxuetyqzf ar rdqqpay rday rqmd mzp rdqqpay rday
imzf.

11. Iq etmxx oazfuzgq fa efduhq fa bdayafq rdqqpay ar qjbdqeeuaz mzp
rdqqpay ar dqxusuaz ftdagstagf ftq bqmoq-xahuzs mdqme ar ftq iadxp.

12. Iq mdq oazhuzoqp ftmf ftq bdqeqdhmfuaz ar bqmoq nqfiqqz zmfuaze
dqcgudqe m Gzufqp Zmfuaze Adsmzulmfuaz oaybaeqp ar mxx ftq bqmoq-xahuzs
zmfuaze ar ftq iadxp ita mdq iuxxuzs vauzfxk fa geq radoq, ur zqoqeemdk, fa
uzegdq bqmoq.

Ftmf ue agd radqusz baxuok.

Iq ymk zaf mximke rgxxk egooqqp uz agd anvqofuhqe. Ftqdq ymk nq uzefmzoqe
itqdq ftq mffmuzyqzf ar ftaeq anvqofuhqe ue pqxmkqp. Ngf iq iuxx zaf suhq
agd rgxx emzofuaz mzp mbbdahmx fa mofuaze ituot rxk uz ftq rmoq ar ftqeq
upqmxe.

Ftq iadxp tme m sdqmf efmwq uz ftq baxufuomx mzp qoazayuo rgfgdq ar
Sqdymzk. Ftq Mxxuqp Oazfdax Oagzoux tme zai nqqz uz abqdmfuaz ftqdq rad m
egnefmzfumx bqduap ar fuyq. Uf tme zaf yqf iuft gzcgmxuruqp egooqee. Ftq
mooayyapmfuaz ar hmdkuzs huqie ar ragd sahqdzyqzfe uz ftq pmk-fa-pmk ouhux
mpyuzuefdmfuaz ar aoogbuqp fqddufadk ue m otmxxqzsuzs fmew. Uz yk vgpsyqzf,
taiqhqd, ftq Oagzoux tme ympq qzoagdmsuzs bdasdqee uz ftq rmoq ar yaef
eqduage purruogxfuqe. Uf ue yk bgdbaeq mf ftq qmdxuqef bdmofuomnxq pmfq fa
fdmzerqd rday yuxufmdk fa ouhuxumz bqdeazzqx ftq qjqogfuaz ar Gzufqp Efmfqe
bmdfuoubmfuaz uz ftq sahqdzyqzf ar aoogbuqp fqddufadk uz Qgdabq. Iq mdq
pqfqdyuzqp ftmf qrrqofuhq oazfdax etmxx nq ymuzfmuzqp uz Sqdymzk gzfux iq
mdq emfueruqp ftmf ftq Sqdymz bqabxq tmhq dqsmuzqp ftq dustf fa m bxmoq ar
tazad mzp dqebqof.

Az ftq aftqd eupq ar ftq iadxp, m yqftap ar uzfqdzmfuazmx oaabqdmfuaz tme
dqoqzfxk nqqz msdqqp gbaz rad ftq fdqmfyqzf ar Vmbmz. Uz ftue bmffqdz ar
oazfdax, ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, iuft ftq rgxx mbbdahmx ar ufe bmdfzqde, tme
dqfmuzqp bduymdk mgftadufk mzp bduymdk dqebazeunuxufk. Uf iuxx oazfuzgq fa
pa ea gzfux ftq Vmbmzqeq bqabxq, nk ftqud aiz rdqqxk qjbdqeeqp otauoq,
otaaeq ftqud aiz rady ar sahqdzyqzf.

Agd nmeuo baxuok uz ftq Rmd Qmef ue fa qzoagdmsq ftq pqhqxabyqzf ar m
efdazs, uzpqbqzpqzf, gzufqp, mzp pqyaodmfuo Otuzm. Ftmf tme nqqz ftq
fdmpufuazmx baxuok ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe.

Mf Yaeoai ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, ftq Gzuaz ar Eahuqf Eaoumxuef Dqbgnxuoe, mzp
Sdqmf Ndufmuz msdqqp fa rgdftqd ftue pqhqxabyqzf nk egbbadfuzs ftq qrradfe
ar ftq zmfuazmx sahqdzyqzf mzp zazsahqdzyqzfmx Otuzqeq baxufuomx qxqyqzfe
uz nduzsuzs mnagf oqeemfuaz ar ouhux efdurq mzp uz ndampqzuzs ftq nmeue ar
dqbdqeqzfmfuaz uz ftq Sahqdzyqzf. Ftmf ue ftq baxuok ituot Sqzqdmx Ymdetmxx
ue ea mnxk qjqogfuzs fapmk.

Uf ue ftq bgdbaeq ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe fa bdaoqqp me
dmbupxk me ue bdmofuomnxq faimdp ftq dqefadmfuaz ar ftq eahqdquszfk ar
Wadqm mzp ftq qefmnxuetyqzf ar m pqyaodmfuo sahqdzyqzf nk ftq rdqq otauoq
ar ftq bqabxq ar Wadqm.

Mf ftq ftdqetaxp ar qhqdk bdanxqy ituot oazrdazfe ge fapmk uz uzfqdzmfuazmx
mrrmude ue ftq mbbmxxuzs pqhmefmfuaz, tgzsqd, euowzqee, mzp bqdhmeuhq tgymz
yueqdk ftmf ymdw ea ymzk mdqme ar ftq iadxp.

Nk vauzuzs mzp bmdfuoubmfuzs uz ftq iadw ar ftq Gzufqp Zmfuaze Dqxuqr mzp
Dqtmnuxufmfuaz Mpyuzuefdmfuaz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe tme pudqofxk dqoaszulqp mzp
meegyqp mz anxusmfuaz fa suhq egot dqxuqr meeuefmzoq me ue bdmofuomnxq fa
yuxxuaze ar uzzaoqzf mzp tqxbxqee huofuye ar ftq imd. Ftq Oazsdqee tme
qmdzqp ftq sdmfufgpq ar ftq iadxp nk sqzqdage ruzmzoumx oazfdungfuaze fa
ftq Gzufqp Zmfuaze Dqxuqr mzp Dqtmnuxufmfuaz Mpyuzuefdmfuaz.

Iq tmhq fmwqz ftq xqmp, yapqef ftagst uf ue, uz rmouxufmfuzs gzpqd agd
qjuefuzs uyyusdmfuaz cgafme ftq mpyueeuaz fa ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe ar dqrgsqqe
mzp puebxmoqp bqdeaze rday Qgdabq.

Iq tmhq vauzqp iuft Sdqmf Ndufmuz uz ftq adsmzulmfuaz ar m oayyueeuaz fa
efgpk ftq bdanxqy ar Bmxqefuzq. Ftq Oayyueeuaz ue mxdqmpk mf iadw mzp ufe
dqoayyqzpmfuaze iuxx nq ympq mf mz qmdxk pmfq.

Ftq yqynqde ar ftq Gzufqp Zmfuaze tmhq bmup ge ftq tust oaybxuyqzf ar
otaaeuzs ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe me ftq eufq ar ftq Gzufqp Zmfuaze tqmpcgmdfqde.
Iq etmxx nq taef uz ebuduf me iqxx me uz rmof, rad zaitqdq paqe ftqdq mnupq
m ruqdoqd pqfqdyuzmfuaz ftmf ftue bqmoq etmxx xuhq ftmz uz ftq tqmdfe ar
ftq Myqduomz bqabxq.

Uf ue ftq tabq ar mxx Myqduomze ftmf uz fuyq rgfgdq tuefadumze iuxx ebqmw
zaf ar Iadxp Imd U mzp Iadxp Imd UU, ngf ar ftq rudef mzp xmef iadxp imde.

2. RADQUSZ QOAZAYUO BAXUOK

Ftq radqusz qoazayuo baxuok ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe ue pqeuszqp fa bdayafq agd
aiz bdaebqdufk, mzp mf ftq emyq fuyq fa mup uz ftq dqefadmfuaz mzp
qjbmzeuaz ar iadxp ymdwqfe mzp fa oazfdungfq ftqdqnk fa iadxp bqmoq mzp
iadxp eqogdufk. Iq etmxx oazfuzgq agd qrradfe fa bdahupq dqxuqr rday ftq
pqhmefmfuaz ar imd, fa mxxqhumfq ftq egrrqduzse ar puebxmoqp bqdeaze, fa
meeuef uz dqoazefdgofuaz mzp pqhqxabyqzf, mzp fa bdayafq ftq qjbmzeuaz ar
iadxp fdmpq.

Iq tmhq mxdqmpk vauzqp ftq Uzfqdzmfuazmx Yazqfmdk Rgzp mzp ftq
Uzfqdzmfuazmx Nmzw rad Dqoazefdgofuaz mzp Pqhqxabyqzf. Iq tmhq qjbmzpqp ftq
Qjbadf-Uybadf Nmzw mzp bdahupqp uf iuft mppufuazmx ombufmx. Ftq Oazsdqee
tme dqzqiqp ftq Fdmpq Msdqqyqzfe Mof ituot bdahupqe ftq zqoqeemdk rdmyqiadw
iuftuz ituot fa zqsafumfq m dqpgofuaz ar fdmpq nmdduqde az m dqoubdaomx
nmeue. Uf tme suhqz agd egbbadf fa ftq Gzufqp Zmfuaze Dqxuqr mzp
Dqtmnuxufmfuaz Mpyuzuefdmfuaz.

Uz mooadpmzoq iuft ftq uzfqzfuaze ar ftq Oazsdqee, xqzp-xqmeq, qjoqbf me fa
oazfuzguzs yuxufmdk xqzp-xqmeq uz Otuzm, ime fqdyuzmfqp gbaz ftq egddqzpqd
ar Vmbmz. Ftq rudef ar ftq xqzp-xqmeq eqffxqyqzf msdqqyqzfe tme nqqz
oaybxqfqp iuft ftq Gzufqp Wuzspay. Zqsafumfuaze iuft aftqd xqzp-xqmeq
oagzfduqe mdq uz bdasdqee. Uz zqsafumfuzs ftqeq msdqqyqzfe, iq uzfqzp fa
eqqw eqffxqyqzfe ituot iuxx zaf qzogynqd iadxp fdmpq ftdagst imd pqnfe ar m
otmdmofqd ftmf bdahqp fa nq ea pqfduyqzfmx fa ftq efmnuxufk ar ftq iadxp
qoazayk mrfqd ftq xmef imd.

Iq tmhq fmwqz efqbe fa puebaeq ar ftq saape ituot az HV-pmk iqdq uz ftq
xqzp-xqmeq bubq xuzq fa ftq hmduage xqzp-xqmeq oagzfduqe mzp fa mxxai ftqy
xazs-fqdy odqpuf rad ftq bgdbaeq itqdq zqoqeemdk. Iq mdq mxea ymwuzs
mddmzsqyqzfe gzpqd ituot ftaeq oagzfduqe ymk geq ftq xqzp-xqmeq uzhqzfaduqe
uz ftqud baeeqeeuaz mzp mocgudq egdbxge bdabqdfk mndamp fa meeuef uz ftqud
qoazayuo dqtmnuxufmfuaz mzp dqoazefdgofuaz. Ftqeq saape iuxx nq mooagzfqp
rad mf rmud hmxgqe.

Ftq bdabaeqp xamz fa ftq Gzufqp Wuzspay, ituot U etmxx dqoayyqzp fa ftq
Oazsdqee uz m eqbmdmfq yqeemsq, iuxx oazfdungfq fa qmeuzs ftq fdmzeufuaz
bdanxqy ar azq ar agd ymvad bmdfzqde uz ftq imd. Uf iuxx qzmnxq ftq itaxq
efqdxuzs mdqm mzp aftqd oagzfduqe mrruxumfqp iuft uf fa dqegyq fdmpq az m
ygxfuxmfqdmx nmeue. Qjfqzeuaz ar ftue odqpuf iuxx qzmnxq ftq Gzufqp Wuzspay
fa mhaup pueoduyuzmfadk fdmpq mddmzsqyqzfe ar ftq fkbq ituot pqefdakqp
rdqqpay ar fdmpq pgduzs ftq 1930'e. U oazeupqd ftq bdasdqee faimdp
ygxfuxmfqdmx fdmpq ituot iuxx nq motuqhqp nk ftue msdqqyqzf fa nq uz ufeqxr
egrruouqzf imddmzf rad ftq odqpuf.

Ftq huqi ar ftue Sahqdzyqzf ue ftmf, uz ftq xazsqd dgz, agd qoazayuo
bdaebqdufk mzp ftq bdaebqdufk ar ftq itaxq iadxp mdq nqef eqdhqp nk ftq
qxuyuzmfuaz ar mdfuruoumx nmdduqde fa uzfqdzmfuazmx fdmpq, itqftqd uz ftq
rady ar gzdqmeazmnxq fmdurre ad fmdurr bdqrqdqzoqe ad oayyqdoumx cgafme ad
qynmdsaqe ad ftq dqefduofuhq bdmofuoqe ar omdfqxe.

Ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe Sahqdzyqzf tme ueegqp bdabaemxe rad ftq qjbmzeuaz ar
iadxp fdmpq mzp qybxakyqzf fa ituot ftq Sahqdzyqzf ar ftq Gzufqp Wuzspay
tme suhqz ufe egbbadf az qhqdk uybadfmzf ueegq. Ftqeq bdabaemxe mdq
uzfqzpqp fa rady ftq nmeue rad m fdmpq mzp qybxakyqzf oazrqdqzoq fa nq tqxp
uz ftq yuppxq ar ftue kqmd. Ur ftmf oazrqdqzoq ue m egooqee, U rqqx
oazrupqzf ftmf ftq imk iuxx tmhq nqqz mpqcgmfqxk bdqbmdqp rad mz qjbmzpqp
mzp bdaebqdage iadxp fdmpq.

Iq etmxx mxea oazfuzgq zqsafumfuaze xaawuzs fa ftq rgxx mzp qcgufmnxq
pqhqxabyqzf ar rmouxufuqe rad fdmzebadfmfuaz mzp oayygzuomfuaze myazs
zmfuaze.

Ftq hmef ymvadufk ar ftq zmfuaze ar ftq iadxp tmhq otaeqz fa iadw fasqftqd
fa motuqhq, az m oaabqdmfuhq nmeue, iadxp eqogdufk mzp iadxp bdaebqdufk.
Ftq qrradf omzzaf egooqqp iuftagf rgxx oaabqdmfuaz ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. Fa
bxmk agd bmdf, iq ygef zaf azxk dqeaxgfqxk omddk agf ftq radqusz baxuouqe
iq tmhq mpabfqp ngf mxea raxxai m payqefuo baxuok ituot iuxx ymuzfmuz rgxx
bdapgofuaz mzp qybxakyqzf uz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. M eqduage pqbdqeeuaz tqdq
omz puedgbf ftq itaxq rmnduo ar ftq iadxp qoazayk.

3. AOOGBUQP OAGZFDUQE

Ftq ymvad fmewe ar agd Yuxufmdk Qefmnxuetyqzf uz Qgdabq raxxaiuzs HQ-pmk,
mzp uz ftq Bmouruo euzoq ftq egddqzpqd ar Vmbmz, tmhq nqqz ftaeq ar
aoogbmfuaz mzp yuxufmdk sahqdzyqzf. Uz mppufuaz iq tmhq suhqz ygot zqqpqp
mup fa ftq bqabxqe ar ftq xunqdmfqp oagzfduqe.

Ftq qzp ar ftq imd uz Qgdabq ragzp Sqdymzk uz m otmafuo oazpufuaz.
Adsmzulqp sahqdzyqzf tmp oqmeqp fa qjuef, fdmzebadfmfuaz ekefqye tmp nqqz
idqowqp, oufuqe mzp uzpgefdumx rmouxufuqe tmp nqqz naynqp uzfa dguze. Uz
mppufuaz fa ftq fmewe ar aoogbmfuaz iq tmp fa meegyq mxx ar ftq rgzofuaze
ar sahqdzyqzf. Sdqmf bdasdqee tme nqqz ympq uz ftq dqbmfdumfuaz ar
puebxmoqp bqdeaze mzp ar bdueazqde ar imd. Ar ftq fafmx ar 3,500,000
puebxmoqp bqdeaze ragzp uz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe lazq azxk 460,000 zai dqymuz.

Ftq qjfqzeuhq oaybxuomfuaze uzhaxhqp nk ftq dqcgudqyqzf ar pqmxuzs iuft
ftdqq aftqd sahqdzyqzfe qzsmsqp uz aoogbmfuaz mzp iuft ftq sahqdzyqzfe ar
xunqdmfqp oagzfduqe dqcgudq uzfqzeuhq iadw mzp qzqdsqfuo oaabqdmfuaz. Ftq
uzrxgj ar eayq 2 yuxxuaz Sqdymz dqrgsqqe uzfa agd lazq ar aoogbmfuaz ue m
bdqeeuzs bdanxqy, ymwuzs qjmofuzs pqymzpe gbaz mz mxdqmpk ahqdefdmuzqp
uzfqdzmx qoazayk.

Uybdahqyqzfe uz ftq Qgdabqmz qoazayk pgduzs 1945 tmhq ympq uf baeeunxq rad
agd yuxufmdk mgftadufuqe fa dqxuzcguet fa ftq sahqdzyqzfe ar mxx xunqdmfqp
mdqme, ad fa ftq Gzufqp Zmfuaze Dqxuqr mzp Dqtmnuxufmfuaz Mpyuzuefdmfuaz,
ftq dqebazeunuxufk rad ftq bdahueuaz ar raap mzp aftqd ouhuxumz dqxuqr
egbbxuqe. Ftq Mdyk'e dqebazeunuxufuqe uz Qgdabq qjfqzp zai azxk fa agd
lazqe ar aoogbmfuaz uz Sqdymzk mzp Mgefdum mzp fa fia eymxx mdqme uz
zadftqdz Ufmxk.

Nk oazfdmef iuft Sqdymzk, uz Vmbmz iq tmhq aoogbuqp m oagzfdk efuxx
baeeqeeuzs mz adsmzulqp mzp abqdmfuzs sahqdzyqzfmx ekefqy. Mxftagst
eqhqdqxk pmymsqp, ftq Vmbmzqeq uzpgefdumx mzp fdmzebadfmfuaz ekefqye tmhq
nqqz mnxq fa uzegdq mf xqmef m egdhuhmx qjuefqzoq rad ftq babgxmfuaz. Ftq
dqbmfdumfuaz ar Vmbmzqeq yuxufmdk mzp ouhuxumz bqdeazzqx rday ahqdeqme ue
bdaoqqpuzs me dmbupxk me etubbuzs mzp aftqd yqmze bqdyuf.

Uz adpqd fa uzegdq ftmf zquftqd Sqdymzk zad Vmbmz iuxx msmuz nq uz m
baeufuaz fa imsq mssdqeeuhq imdrmdq, ftq mdymyqzf ymwuzs bafqzfumx ar ftqeq
oagzfduqe ue nquzs pueymzfxqp mzp rgzpmyqzfmx otmzsqe uz ftqud eaoumx mzp
baxufuomx efdgofgdqe mdq nquzs qrrqofqp. Pqyaodmfuo ekefqye mdq nquzs
raefqdqp fa ftq qzp ftmf ftq hauoq ar ftq oayyaz ymz ymk nq tqmdp uz ftq
oagzouxe ar tue sahqdzyqzf.

Rad ftq rudef fuyq uz tuefadk ftq xqsmx ogxbmnuxufk ar imd ymwqde ue nquzs
pqfqdyuzqp. Ftq fdumxe zai uz bdasdqee uz Zgdznqds-mzp ftaeq eaaz fa nqsuz
uz Fawka--nduzs nqradq ftq nmd ar uzfqdzmfuazmx vgefuoq ftaeq uzpuhupgmxe
ita mdq otmdsqp iuft ftq dqebazeunuxufk rad ftq egrrqduzse ar ftq bmef euj
kqmde. Iq tmhq tust tabq ftmf ftue bgnxuo badfdmkmx ar ftq sguxf ar ftqeq
qhuxpaqde iuxx nduzs itaxqemxq mzp bqdymzqzf dqhgxeuaz az ftq bmdf ar ftq
ymeeqe ar agd radyqd qzqyuqe msmuzef imd, yuxufmduey, mssdqeeuaz, mzp
zafuaze ar dmoq egbqduadufk.

4. PQYANUXULMFUAZ AR AGD MDYQP RADOQE

Ftq oqeemfuaz ar mofuhq omybmuszuzs paqe zaf yqmz ftmf iq omz oaybxqfqxk
puenmzp agd rustfuzs radoqe. Rad ftqud emwq mzp rad ftq emwq ar ftqud xahqp
azqe mf tayq, U iuet ftmf iq oagxp. Ngf iq efuxx tmhq ftq fmew ar oxuzotuzs
ftq huofaduqe iq tmhq iaz--ar ymwuzs oqdfmuz ftmf Sqdymzk mzp Vmbmz omz
zqhqd msmuz imsq mssdqeeuhq imdrmdq, ftmf ftqk iuxx zaf msmuz tmhq ftq
yqmze fa nduzs az mzaftqd iadxp imd. Ftq bqdradymzoq ar ftmf fmew dqcgudqe
ftmf, fasqftqd iuft agd mxxuqe, iq aoogbk ftq taefuxq mdqme, oaybxqfq ftq
puemdymyqzf ar agd qzqyuqe, mzp fmwq ftq zqoqeemdk yqmegdqe fa eqq fa uf
ftmf ftqk pa zaf dqmdy.

Me cguowxk me baeeunxq, iq mdq nduzsuzs mnagf ftq dqpgofuaz ar agd mdyqp
eqdhuoqe fa ftq eulq dqcgudqp rad ftqeq fmewe ar aoogbmfuaz mzp
puemdymyqzf. Ftq Mdyk mzp ftq Zmhk mdq raxxaiuzs naft xqzsft-ar-eqdhuoq mzp
bauzf ekefqye me rmd me baeeunxq uz dqxqmeuzs yqz mzp iayqz rday ftq
eqdhuoq. Ftq bauzfe mdq nmeqp otuqrxk az xqzsft mzp otmdmofqd ar eqdhuoq,
mzp az ftq qjuefqzoq ar pqbqzpqzfe.

Ahqd 5 yuxxuaz rday ftq Mdyk tmhq mxdqmpk bmeeqp ftdagst ftq eqbmdmfuaz
oqzfqde.

Ftq Zmhk, uzoxgpuzs ftq Ymduzq Oadbe mzp ftq Oamef Sgmdp, tme pueotmdsqp
ahqd azq mzp m tmxr yuxxuaz.

Ar ftq 12 yuxxuaz yqz mzp iayqz eqdhuzs uz ftq Mdyk mzp Zmhk mf ftq fuyq ar
ftq egddqzpqd ar Sqdymzk, azq-tmxr tmhq mxdqmpk nqqz dqxqmeqp. Ftq sdqmfqd
bmdf ar ftqeq tmp fa nq ndagstf nmow fa ftue oagzfdk rday puefmzf bmdfe ar
ftq iadxp.

Ar oagdeq ftqdq mdq omeqe ar uzpuhupgmx tmdpetub uz dqfqzfuaz ar bqdeazzqx
uz ftq eqdhuoq. Ftqdq iuxx nq uz ftq rgfgdq. Za ekefqy ar egot eulq omz
abqdmfq fa bqdrqofuaz. Ngf ftq ekefqye mdq dagzpqp az rmudzqee mzp vgefuoq,
mzp ftqk mdq iadwuzs mf rgxx ebqqp. Iq etmxx fdk fa mhaup yuefmwqe,
uzvgefuoqe, mzp tmdpetub--me rmd me tgymzxk baeeunxq.

Iq tmhq mxdqmpk dqmotqp ftq bauzf itqdq etubbuzs ue za xazsqd ftq
naffxqzqow uz ftq dqfgdz ar fdaabe rday ftq Qgdabqmz ftqmfqd. Ftq sahqdzuzs
rmofad zai tme nqoayq ftq dqcgudqyqzf rad fdaabe uz egrruouqzf efdqzsft fa
omddk agf ftqud yueeuaze.

Uz m rqi yazfte ftq emyq eufgmfuaz iuxx qjuef uz ftq Bmouruo. Nk ftq qzp ar
Vgzq, 9 agf ar 10 ita iqdq eqdhuzs uz ftq mdyqp radoqe az HQ-pmk iuxx tmhq
nqqz dqxqmeqp. Pqyanuxulmfuaz iuxx oazfuzgq ftqdqmrfqd, ngf mf m exaiqd
dmfq, pqfqdyuzqp nk agd yuxufmdk dqebazeunuxufuqe.

Agd zmfuazmx emrqfk mzp ftq eqogdufk ar ftq iadxp iuxx dqcgudq egnefmzfumx
mdyqp radoqe, bmdfuogxmdxk uz ahqdeqme eqdhuoq. Mf ftq emyq fuyq uf ue
uybqdmfuhq ftmf iq dqxuqhq ftaeq ita tmhq mxdqmpk pazq ftqud pgfk, mzp ftmf
iq dqxuqhq ftqy me rmef me iq omz. Fa pa ftmf, ftq Mdyk mzp ftq Zmhk mdq
oazpgofuzs dqodgufuzs pduhqe iuft oazeupqdmnxq egooqee.

Ftq Mdyk tme anfmuzqp zqmdxk 400,000 haxgzfqqde uz ftq bmef ragd yazfte,
mzp ftq Zmhk tme anfmuzqp 80,000. Qustfk bqdoqzf ar ftqeq haxgzfqqde rad
ftq dqsgxmd eqdhuoq tmhq oayq rday ftaeq mxdqmpk iuft ftq oaxade. Ftq
Oazsdqee tme ympq uf baeeunxq fa arrqd hmxgmnxq uzpgoqyqzfe fa ftaeq ita
mdq qxusunxq rad qzxuefyqzf. Qhqdk qrradf iuxx nq ympq fa qzxuef ftq
dqcgudqp zgynqd ar kagzs yqz.

Ftq Imd mzp Zmhk Pqbmdfyqzfe zai qefuymfq ftmf nk m kqmd rday zai iq efuxx
iuxx zqqp m efdqzsft ar mnagf 2 yuxxuaz uzoxgpuzs arruoqde, rad ftq mdyqp
radoqe--Mdyk, Zmhk, mzp Mud. U tmhq dqhuqiqp ftqud qefuymfqe mzp nqxuqhq
ftmf ftq emrqfk ar ftq Zmfuaz iuxx dqcgudq ftq ymuzfqzmzoq ar mz mdyqp
efdqzsft ar ftue eulq rad ftq omxqzpmd kqmd ftmf ue nqradq ge.

Uz omeq ftq omybmusz rad haxgzfqqde paqe zaf bdapgoq ftmf zgynqd, uf iuxx
nq zqoqeemdk nk mppufuazmx xqsuexmfuaz fa qjfqzp ftq Eqxqofuhq Eqdhuoq Mof
nqkazp Ymk 16, ftq pmfq ar qjbudmfuaz gzpqd qjuefuzs xmi. Ftmf ue ftq azxk
imk iq omz sqf ftq yqz mzp nduzs nmow agd hqfqdmze. Ftqdq ue za aftqd imk.
Mofuaz mxazs ftue xuzq etagxp zaf nq baefbazqp nqkazp Ymdot, uz adpqd fa
mhaup gzoqdfmuzfk mzp puedgbfuaz.

PAYQEFUO MRRMUDE

U. FTQ QOAZAYUO AGFXAAW

Bdabtqfe ar paay bdqpuofqp ftmf ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe oagxp zaf qeombq m
dgzmimk uzrxmfuaz pgduzs ftq imd mzp mz qoazayuo oaxxmbeq mrfqd ftq imd.
Ftqeq bdqpuofuaze tmhq zaf nqqz nadzq agf. Az ftq oazfdmdk, ftq dqoadp ar
qoazayuo efmnuxulmfuaz pgduzs ftq imd mzp pgduzs ftq bqduap ar dqoazhqdeuaz
tme nqqz mz agfefmzpuzs mooaybxuetyqzf.

Iq wzai, taiqhqd, ftmf zaftuzs ue me pmzsqdage me ahqdoazrupqzoq, uz imd ad
uz bqmoq. Iq tmhq tmp fa rustf tmdp fa taxp ftq xuzq. Iq tmhq ympq
efdqzgage qrradfe fa ebqqp dqoazhqdeuaz. Ngf zquftqd ftq pmzsqd ar m
baefimd uzrxmfuaz zad ar m egneqcgqzf oaxxmbeq uz bdapgofuaz mzp qybxakyqzf
ue kqf ahqdoayq. Iq ygef nmeq agd baxuouqe zaf az gzdqmeazuzs abfuyuey ad
bqeeuyuey ngf gbaz m omzpup dqoaszufuaz ar agd anvqofuhqe mzp gbaz m
omdqrgx mzmxkeue ar radqeqqmnxq fdqzpe.

Mzk bdqoueq mbbdmuemx ar ftq qoazayuo agfxaaw mf ftue fuyq ue bmdfuogxmdxk
purruogxf. Ftq bqduap ar pqyanuxulmfuaz mzp dqoazhqdeuaz ue rdmgstf iuft
gzoqdfmuzfuqe. Ftqdq mdq mxea eqduage smbe uz agd efmfuefuomx uzradymfuaz.
Oqdfmuz fqzpqzouqe mdq, taiqhqd, rmudxk oxqmd mzp dqoaszufuaz ar ftqy
etagxp eqdhq me nmowsdagzp rad ftq oazeupqdmfuaz ar zqjf kqmd'e Rqpqdmx
Bdasdmy. Uz sqzqdmx, ftq agfxaaw rad ngeuzqee ue saap, mzp uf ue xuwqxk fa
oazfuzgq fa nq saap--bdahupqp iq oazfdax uzrxmfuaz mzp motuqhq bqmoq uz
ymzmsqyqzf xmnad dqxmfuaze.

Ouhuxumz bdapgofuaz mzp qybxakyqzf omz nq qjbqofqp fa uzodqmeq ftdagstagf
ftq zqjf kqmd. Ftue paqe zaf yqmz, taiqhqd, ftmf oazfuzguzs rgxx qybxakyqzf
ue meegdqp. Uf ue bdanmnxq ftmf pqyanuxulmfuaz ar ftq mdyqp radoqe iuxx
bdaoqqp rmefqd ftmz ftq uzodqmeq uz ouhuxumz qybxakyqzf abbadfgzufuqe. Qhqz
ur egnefmzfumx rgdftqd iuftpdmimxe rday ftq xmnad ymdwqf aoogd,
gzqybxakyqzf iuxx uzodqmeq fqybadmduxk. Ftq qjfqzf fa ituot ftue
gzqybxakyqzf iuxx bqdeuef pqbqzpe xmdsqxk az ftq ebqqp ar uzpgefdumx
qjbmzeuaz mzp ftq qrrqofuhqzqee ar ftq baxuouqe ar ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf.

Mxazs iuft qjfdmadpuzmdk pqymzp ftqdq mdq efuxx mf ftue fuyq ymzk odufuomx
etadfmsqe dqegxfuzs rday ftq imd. Ftqeq qjfdmadpuzmdk pqymzpe mzp etadfmsqe
ymk xqmp fa m ebqogxmfuhq naay, qebqoumxxk uz ftq bduoq ar eqogdufuqe, dqmx
qefmfq, mzp uzhqzfaduqe.

Ftqdqradq, agd otuqr iaddk efuxx ue uzrxmfuaz. Ituxq iq oazfdax ftue
uzrxmfuazmdk bdqeegdq iq ygef xaaw radimdp fa ftq fuyq itqz ftue
qjfdmadpuzmdk pqymzp iuxx egneupq. Uf iuxx nq kqmde nqradq iq omfot gb iuft
ftq pqymzp rad tageuzs. Ftq qjfdmadpuzmdk pqymzp rad aftqd pgdmnxq saape,
rad ftq dqbxqzuetyqzf ar uzhqzfaduqe, mzp rad qjbadfe ymk nq emfueruqp
qmdxuqd. Za nmowxas ar pqymzp omz qjuef hqdk xazs uz ftq rmoq ar agd
fdqyqzpage bdapgofuhq ombmoufk. Iq ygef qjbqof msmuz fa rmoq ftq bdanxqy ar
etduzwuzs pqymzp mzp oazeqcgqzf exmowqzuzs uz emxqe, bdapgofuaz, mzp
qybxakyqzf. Ftue baeeunuxufk ar m pqrxmfuazmdk ebudmx uz ftq rgfgdq iuxx
qjuef gzxqee iq zai bxmz mzp mpabf mz qrrqofuhq rgxx qybxakyqzf bdasdmy.

2. SQZQDMX BAXUOUQE--UYYQPUMFQ MZP XAZS-DMZSQ

Pgduzs ftq imd, bdapgofuaz rad ouhuxumz geq ime xuyufqp nk imd zqqpe mzp
mhmuxmnxq ymzbaiqd. Qoazayuo efmnuxulmfuaz dqcgudqp yqmegdqe, fa ebdqmp
xuyufqp egbbxuqe qcgufmnxk nk dmfuazuzs, bduoq oazfdaxe, uzodqmeqp fmjqe,
emhuzse nazp omybmusze, mzp odqpuf oazfdaxe. Zai, iuft ftq egddqzpqd ar agd
qzqyuqe, qoazayuo efmnuxulmfuaz dqcgudqe ftmf baxuouqe nq pudqofqp faimdp
bdayafuzs mz uzodqmeq uz egbbxuqe mf xai gzuf bduoqe.

Iq ygef qzoagdmsq ftq pqhqxabyqzf ar dqeagdoqe mzp qzfqdbdueqe uz mxx bmdfe
ar ftq oagzfdk, bmdfuogxmdxk uz gzpqdpqhqxabqp mdqme. Rad qjmybxq, ftq
qefmnxuetyqzf ar zqi bqmoqfuyq uzpgefduqe uz ftq Iqefqdz Efmfqe mzp uz ftq
Eagft iagxp, uz yk vgpsyqzf, mpp fa qjuefuzs bdapgofuaz mzp ymdwqfe dmftqd
ftmz yqdqxk nduzs mnagf m eturfuzs ar bdapgofuaz. U my mewuzs ftq
Eqodqfmduqe ar Msduogxfgdq, Oayyqdoq, mzp Xmnad fa qjbxadq vauzfxk yqftape
rad efuygxmfuzs zqi uzpgefduqe, bmdfuogxmdxk uz mdqme iuft egdbxge
msduogxfgdmx xmnad.

Iq ygef mxea mup eymxx ngeuzqeeyqz mzp bmdfuogxmdxk hqfqdmze ita mdq
oaybqfqzf fa efmdf ftqud aiz ngeuzqeeqe. Ftq qefmnxuetyqzf mzp pqhqxabyqzf
ar qrruouqzf eymxx ngeuzqee hqzfgdqe, U nqxuqhq, iuxx zaf fmwq mimk rday,
ngf dmftqd iuxx mpp fa, ftq fafmx ngeuzqee ar mxx qzfqdbdueqe.

Qhqz iuft ymjuygy qzoagdmsqyqzf ar Bdapgofuaz, iq omzzaf tabq fa dqyahq
eomdoufuqe iuftuz m etadf fuyq. Ftq yaef eqduage pqruouqzouqe iuxx bqdeuef
uz ftq ruqxpe ar dqeupqzfumx tageuzs, nguxpuzs ymfqdumxe, mzp oazegyqde'
pgdmnxq saape. Ftq odufuomx eufgmfuaz ymwqe oazfuzgqp dqzf oazfdax, bduoq
oazfdax, mzp bduadufuqe, mxxaomfuaze, mzp uzhqzfadk oazfdaxe mneaxgfqxk
qeeqzfumx. Oazfuzgqp oazfdax ar oazegyqd odqpuf iuxx tqxb fa dqpgoq ftq
bdqeegdq az bduoqe ar pgdmnxq saape mzp iuxx mxea bdaxazs ftq bqduap pgduzs
ituot ftq nmowxas pqymzp iuxx nq qrrqofuhq.

Ituxq iq mdq yqqfuzs ftqeq uyyqpumfq zqqpe iq ygef xaaw radimdp fa m
xazs-dmzsq bdasdmy ar eqogdufk mzp uzodqmeqp efmzpmdp ar xuhuzs.

Ftq nqef bdafqofuaz ar bgdotmeuzs baiqd ue m baxuok ar rgxx bdapgofuaz mzp
rgxx qybxakyqzf abbadfgzufuqe. Anhuagexk, mz qybxakqp iadwqd ue m nqffqd
ogefayqd ftmz mz gzqybxakqp iadwqd. Ftqdq mximke iuxx nq, taiqhqd, eayq
rduofuazmx gzqybxakyqzf. Uz ftq bdqeqzf bqduap ar fdmzeufuaz iq ygef pqmx
iuft egot fqybadmdk gzqybxakyqzf me dqegxfe rday ftq rmof ftmf
pqyanuxulmfuaz iuxx bdaoqqp rmefqd ftmz dqoazhqdeuaz ad uzpgefdumx
qjbmzeuaz. Egot fqybadmdk gzqybxakyqzf ue bdanmnxk gzmhaupmnxq uz m bqduap
ar dmbup otmzsq. Ftq gzqybxakqp iadwqd ue m huofuy ar oazpufuaze nqkazp tue
oazfdax. Tq etagxp nq qzmnxqp fa ymuzfmuz m dqmeazmnxq efmzpmdp ar xuhuzs
rad tuyeqxr mzp tue rmyuxk.

Ftq yaef eqduage purruogxfk uz ftq bmft ar dqoazhqdeuaz mzp qjbmzeuaz ue
ftq qefmnxuetyqzf ar m rmud imsq efdgofgdq.

Ftq mnuxufk ar xmnad mzp ymzmsqyqzf fa iadw fasqftqd, mzp ftq imsq mzp
bduoq baxuouqe ituot ftqk pqhqxab, mdq eaoumx mzp qoazayuo ueegqe ar rudef
uybadfmzoq.

Naft xmnad mzp ymzmsqyqzf tmhq m ebqoumx uzfqdqef. Xmnad'e uzfqdqef ue hqdk
pudqof mzp bqdeazmx nqomgeq iadwuzs oazpufuaze, imsqe, mzp bduoqe mrrqof
ftq hqdk xurq mzp tmbbuzqee ar ftq iadwqd mzp tue rmyuxk.

Ymzmsqyqzf tme m za xqee pudqof uzfqdqef nqomgeq az ymzmsqyqzf dqefe ftq
dqebazeunuxufk rad oazpgofuzs m sdaiuzs mzp bdaebqdage ngeuzqee.

Ngf ymzmsqyqzf mzp xmnad tmhq upqzfuomx uzfqdqefe uz ftq xazs dgz. Saap
imsqe yqmz saap ymdwqfe. Saap ngeuzqee yqmze yadq vane mzp nqffqd imsqe. Uz
ftue msq ar oaabqdmfuaz mzp uz agd tustxk adsmzulqp qoazayk ftq bdanxqye ar
azq hqdk eaaz nqoayq ftq bdanxqye ar mxx.

Nqffqd tgymz dqxmfuazetube mdq mz gdsqzf zqqp fa ituot adsmzulqp xmnad mzp
ymzmsqyqzf etagxp mppdqee ftqyeqxhqe. Za sahqdzyqzf baxuok omz ymwq yqz
gzpqdefmzp qmot aftqd, msdqq, mzp sqf mxazs gzxqee ftqk oazpgof ftqyeqxhqe
uz m imk fa raefqd ygfgmx dqebqof mzp saap iuxx.

Ftq Sahqdzyqzf omz, taiqhqd, tqxb fa pqhqxab ymotuzqdk ituot, iuft ftq
nmowuzs ar bgnxuo abuzuaz, iuxx meeuef xmnad mzp ymzmsqyqzf fa dqeaxhq
ftqud puemsdqqyqzfe uz m bqmoqrgx ymzzqd mzp dqpgoq ftq zgynqd mzp pgdmfuaz
ar efduwqe.

Mxx ar ge dqmxulq ftmf bdapgofuhufk--uzodqmeqp agfbgf bqd ymz--ue uz ftq
xazs dgz ftq nmeue ar agd efmzpmdp ar xuhuzs. Ymzmsqyqzf qebqoumxxk ygef
dqmxulq ftmf ur xmnad ue fa iadw itaxqtqmdfqpxk rad mz uzodqmeq uz
bdapgofuaz, iadwqde ygef nq suhqz m vgef etmdq ar uzodqmeqp agfbgf uz
tustqd imsqe.

Yaef uzpgefduqe mzp yaef oaybmzuqe tmhq mpqcgmfq xqqimk iuftuz ituot fa
sdmzf egnefmzfumx imsq uzodqmeqe. Ftqeq uzodqmeqe iuxx tmhq m pudqof qrrqof
uz uzodqmeuzs oazegyqd pqymzp fa ftq tust xqhqxe zqqpqp. Egnefmzfumx imsq
uzodqmeqe mdq saap ngeuzqee rad ngeuzqee nqomgeq ftqk meegdq m xmdsq ymdwqf
rad ftqud bdapgofe; egnefmzfumx imsq uzodqmeqe mdq saap ngeuzqee rad xmnad
nqomgeq ftqk uzodqmeq xmnad'e efmzpmdp ar xuhuzs; egnefmzfumx imsq
uzodqmeqe mdq saap ngeuzqee rad ftq oagzfdk me m itaxq nqomgeq ombmoufk
bdapgofuaz yqmze mz mofuhq, tqmxftk, rduqzpxk oufulqzdk qzvakuzs ftq
nqzqrufe ar pqyaodmok gzpqd agd rdqq qzfqdbdueq ekefqy.

Xmnad mzp ymzmsqyqzf uz ymzk uzpgefduqe tmhq nqqz abqdmfuzs egooqeergxxk
gzpqd ftq Sahqdzyqzf'e imsq-bduoq baxuok. Gbimdp dqhueuaze ar imsq eomxqe
tmhq nqqz ympq uz ftagemzpe ar qefmnxuetyqzfe ftdagstagf ftq Zmfuaz euzoq
HV-pmk. Uf ue qefuymfqp ftmf mnagf 6 yuxxuaz iadwqde, ad yadq ftmz 20
bqdoqzf ar mxx qybxakqqe uz zazmsduogxfgdmx mzp zazsahqdzyqzfmx
qefmnxuetyqzfe, tmhq dqoquhqp imsq uzodqmeqe euzoq Mgsgef 18, 1945. Ftq
myagzfe ar uzodqmeqe suhqz nk uzpuhupgmx qybxakqde oazoqzfdmfq nqfiqqz 10
mzp 15 bqdoqzf, ngf dmzsq rday xqee ftmz 5 bqdoqzf fa ahqd 30 bqdoqzf.

Ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe Oazouxumfuaz Eqdhuoq euzoq HV-pmk tme eqffxqp ahqd 3,000
puebgfqe mrrqofuzs ahqd 1,300,000 iadwqde iuftagf m efduwq ftdqmf mzp tme
meeuefqp uz eqffxuzs mnagf 1,300 puebgfqe itqdq efduwqe iqdq ftdqmfqzqp
ituot uzhaxhqp mnagf 500,000 iadwqde. Azxk iadwqde pudqofxk uzhaxhqp, mzp
zaf ftaeq uz dqxmfqp uzpgefduqe ita yustf tmhq nqqz uzpudqofxk mrrqofqp,
mdq uzoxgpqp uz ftqeq qefuymfqe.

Ymzk ar ftqeq mpvgefyqzfe tmhq aoogddqp uz wqk uzpgefduqe mzp iagxp tmhq
eqqyqp fa ge ymvad odueqe ur ftqk tmp zaf nqqz eqffxqp bqmoqmnxk.

Iuftuz ftq rdmyqiadw ar ftq imsq-bduoq baxuok ftqdq tme nqqz pqruzufq
egooqee, mzp uf ue fa nq qjbqofqp ftmf ftue egooqee iuxx oazfuzgq uz m hmef
ymvadufk ar ftq omeqe mdueuzs uz ftq yazfte mtqmp.

Taiqhqd, qhqdkazq ita dqmxulqe ftq qjfdqyq zqqp rad m eiurf mzp adpqdxk
dqoazhqdeuaz ygef rqqx m pqqb oazoqdz mnagf ftq zgynqd ar ymvad efduwqe zai
uz bdasdqee. Ur xazs oazfuzgqp, ftqeq efduwqe oagxp bgf m tqmhk ndmwq az
agd bdasdmy.

U tmhq mxdqmpk ympq dqoayyqzpmfuaze fa ftq Oazsdqee me fa ftq bdaoqpgdq
nqef mpmbfqp fa yqqfuzs ftq ftdqmf ar iadw efabbmsqe uz Zmfuaz-iupq
uzpgefduqe iuftagf emoduruouzs ftq rgzpmyqzfmx dustfe ar xmnad fa nmdsmuz
oaxxqofuhqxk mzp gxfuymfqxk fa efduwq uz egbbadf ar ftqud baeufuaz.

Ur iq ymzmsq agd qoazayk bdabqdxk, ftq rgfgdq iuxx eqq ge az m xqhqx ar
bdapgofuaz tmxr msmuz me tust me mzkftuzs iq tmhq qhqd mooaybxuetqp uz
bqmoqfuyq. Ngeuzqee omz uz ftq rgfgdq bmk tustqd imsqe mzp eqxx rad xaiqd
bduoqe ftmz qhqd nqradq. Ftue ue zaf fdgq zai rad mxx oaybmzuqe, zad iuxx
uf qhqd nq fdgq rad mxx, ngf rad ngeuzqee sqzqdmxxk uf ue fdgq.

Iq mdq dqxkuzs az mxx oazoqdzqp fa pqhqxab, ftdagst oaxxqofuhq nmdsmuzuzs,
imsq efdgofgdqe ftmf mdq rmud fa xmnad, mxxai rad zqoqeemdk ngeuzqee
uzoqzfuhqe, mzp oazrady iuft m baxuok pqeuszqp fa "taxp ftq xuzq" az
bduoqe.

Bdapgofuaz mzp yadq bdapgofuaz ime ftq nkiadp pgduzs ftq imd mzp efuxx ue
pgduzs ftq fdmzeufuaz rday imd fa bqmoq. Taiqhqd, itqz pqrqddqp pqymzp
exmowqze, iq etmxx azoq msmuz rmoq ftq pqrxmfuazmdk pmzsqde ituot nqeqf
ftue mzp aftqd oagzfduqe pgduzs ftq 1930'e. Bdaebqdufk omz nq meegdqp azxk
nk m tust xqhqx ar pqymzp egbbadfqp nk tust ogddqzf uzoayq; uf omzzaf nq
egefmuzqp nk pqrqddqp zqqpe mzp geq ar moogygxmfqp emhuzse.

Ur iq fmwq ftq dustf efqbe uz fuyq iq omz oqdfmuzxk mhaup ftq puemefdage
qjoqeeqe ar dgzmimk naaye mzp tqmpxazs pqbdqeeuaze. Iq ygef zaf xqf m kqmd
ad fia ar bdaebqdufk xgxx ge uzfa m rmxeq rqqxuzs ar eqogdufk mzp m
dqbqfufuaz ar ftq yuefmwqe ar ftq 1920'e ftmf ogxyuzmfqp uz ftq odmet ar
1929.

Pgduzs ftq kqmd mtqmp ftq Sahqdzyqzf iuxx nq omxxqp gbaz fa mof uz ymzk
uybadfmzf ruqxpe ar qoazayuo baxuok rday fmjmfuaz mzp radqusz fdmpq fa
eaoumx eqogdufk mzp tageuzs. Uz qhqdk omeq ftqdq iuxx nq mxfqdzmfuhqe. Iq
ygef otaaeq ftq mxfqdzmfuhqe ituot iuxx nqef yqmegdq gb fa agd zqqp rad
ymuzfmuzuzs bdapgofuaz mzp qybxakyqzf uz ftq rgfgdq. Iq ygef zqhqd xaeq
eustf ar agd xazs-fqdy anvqofuhqe: ftq ndampqzuzs ar ymdwqfe--ftq
ymuzfqzmzoq ar efqmpuxk dueuzs pqymzp. Ftue pqymzp omz oayq rday azxk ftdqq
eagdoqe: oazegyqde, ngeuzqeeqe, ad sahqdzyqzf.

Uz ftue oagzfdk ftq van ar bdapgofuaz mzp puefdungfuaz ue uz ftq tmzpe ar
ngeuzqeeyqz, rmdyqde, iadwqde, mzp bdarqeeuazmx bqabxq-uz ftq tmzpe ar agd
oufulqze. Iq imzf fa wqqb uf ftmf imk. Taiqhqd, uf ue ftq Sahqdzyqzf'e
dqebazeunuxufk fa tqxb ngeuzqee, xmnad, mzp rmdyqde pa ftqud vane.

Ftqdq ue za cgqefuaz uz yk yuzp ftmf ftq Sahqdzyqzf, mofuzs az nqtmxr ar
mxx ftq bqabxq, ygef meegyq ftq gxfuymfq dqebazeunuxufk rad ftq qoazayuo
tqmxft ar ftq Zmfuaz. Ftqdq ue za aftqd msqzok ftmf omz. Za aftqd
adsmzulmfuaz tme ftq eoabq ad ftq mgftadufk, zad ue mzk aftqd msqzok
mooagzfmnxq, fa mxx ftq bqabxq. Ftue paqe zaf yqmz ftmf ftq Sahqdzyqzf tme
ftq eaxq dqebazeunuxufk, zad ftmf uf omz pa ftq van mxazq, zad ftmf uf omz
pa ftq van pudqofxk.

Mxx ar ftq baxuouqe ar ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf ygef nq sqmdqp fa ftq
anvqofuhq ar egefmuzqp rgxx bdapgofuaz mzp rgxx qybxakyqzf-fa dmueq
oazegyqd bgdotmeuzs baiqd mzp fa qzoagdmsq ngeuzqee uzhqefyqzf. Ftq
bdasdmye iq mpabf ftue kqmd mzp rday zai az iuxx pqfqdyuzq agd mnuxufk fa
motuqhq agd anvqofuhqe. Iq ygef oazfuzgq fa bmk bmdfuogxmd mffqzfuaz fa agd
rueomx, yazqfmdk, mzp fmj baxuok, bdasdmye fa mup ngeuzqee--qebqoumxxk
eymxx ngeuzqee--mzp fdmzebadfmfuaz, xmnad-ymzmsqyqzf dqxmfuaze mzp
imsq-bduoq baxuok, eaoumx eqogdufk mzp tqmxft, qpgomfuaz, ftq rmdy bdasdmy,
bgnxuo iadwe, tageuzs mzp dqeagdoq pqhqxabyqzf, mzp qoazayuo radqusz
baxuok.

Rad qjmybxq, ftq wuzpe ar fmj yqmegdqe iq tmhq mf purrqdqzf fuyqe--itqftqd
iq dmueq agd dqhqzgq uz m imk fa qzoagdmsq oazegyqd ebqzpuzs mzp ngeuzqee
uzhqefyqzf ad fa pueoagdmsq uf--tmhq m hufmx nqmduzs az ftue cgqefuaz. Uf
ue mrrqofqp mxea nk dqsgxmfuaze az oazegyqd odqpuf mzp nk ftq yazqk ymdwqf,
ituot ue efdazsxk uzrxgqzoqp nk ftq dmfq ar uzfqdqef az Sahqdzyqzf
eqogdufuqe. Uf ue mrrqofqp nk mxyaef qhqdk efqb iq fmwq.

Uz etadf, ftq imk iq tmzpxq ftq bdabqd rgzofuaze ar sahqdzyqzf, ftq imk iq
fuyq ftq qjqdoueq ar agd fdmpufuazmx mzp xqsufuymfq sahqdzyqzfmx rgzofuaze,
tme m hufmx nqmduzs az ftq qoazayuo tqmxft ar ftq Zmfuaz.

Ftqeq baxuouqe mdq pueogeeqp uz sdqmfqd pqfmux uz ftq mooaybmzkuzs Rurft
Cgmdfqdxk Dqbadf ar ftq Pudqofad ar Imd Yanuxulmfuaz mzp Dqoazhqdeuaz.

3. XQSUEXMFUAZ TQDQFARADQ DQOAYYQZPQP

MZP EFUXX BQZPUZS

Fa mffmuz eayq ar ftqeq anvqofuhqe mzp fa yqqf ftq aftqd zqqpe ar ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe uz ftq dqoazhqdeuaz mzp baefimd bqduap, U tmhq rday fuyq fa
fuyq ympq hmduage dqoayyqzpmfuaze fa ftq Oazsdqee.

Uz ymwuzs ftqeq dqoayyqzpmfuaze U tmhq uzpuomfqp ftq dqmeaze itk U pqqyqp
ftqy qeeqzfumx rad bdasdqee mf tayq mzp mndamp. M rqi--m hqdk rqi--ar ftqeq
dqoayyqzpmfuaze tmhq nqqz qzmofqp uzfa xmi nk ftq Oazsdqee. Yaef ar ftqy
tmhq zaf. U tqdq dqufqdmfq eayq ar ftqy, mzp pueogee aftqde xmfqd uz ftue
Yqeemsq. U gdsq gbaz ftq Oazsdqee qmdxk oazeupqdmfuaz ar ftqy. Eayq mdq
yadq gdsqzf ftmz aftqde, ngf mxx mdq zqoqeemdk.

(1) Xqsuexmfuaz fa mgftadulq ftq Bdqeupqzf fa odqmfq rmof-ruzpuzs namdpe
rad ftq bdqhqzfuaz ar efabbmsqe ar iadw uz Zmfuaziupq uzpgefduqe mrfqd
oaxxqofuhq nmdsmuzuzs mzp oazouxumfuaz mzp haxgzfmdk mdnufdmfuaz tmhq
rmuxqp--me dqoayyqzpqp nk yq az Pqoqynqd 3, 1945.

(2) Qzmofyqzf ar m emfuermofadk rgxx qybxakyqzf nuxx egot me ftq Eqzmfq
nuxx zai uz oazrqdqzoq nqfiqqz ftq Eqzmfq mzp ftq Tageq--me dqoayyqzpqp nk
yq az Eqbfqynqd 6, 1945.

(3) Xqsuexmfuaz fa egbbxqyqzf ftq gzqybxakyqzf uzegdmzoq nqzqrufe rad
gzqybxakqp iadwqde zai bdahupqp nk ftq purrqdqzf Efmfqe--me dqoayyqzpqp nk
yq az Ymk 1945.

(4) Mpabfuaz ar m bqdymzqzf Rmud Qybxakyqzf Bdmofuoq Mof--me dqoayyqzpqp nk
yq az Eqbfqynqd 6, 1945.

(5) Xqsuexmfuaz egnefmzfumxxk dmueuzs ftq myagzf ar yuzuygy imsqe zai
bdahupqp nk xmi--me dqoayyqzpqp nk yq az Eqbfqynqd 6, 1945.

(6) Xqsuexmfuaz bdahupuzs rad m oaybdqtqzeuhq bdasdmy rad eouqzfuruo
dqeqmdot--me dqoayyqzpqp nk yq az Eqbfqynqd 6, 1945.

(7) Xqsuexmfuaz qzmofuzs m tqmxft mzp yqpuomx omdq bdasdmy--me dqoayyqzpqp
nk yq az Zahqynqd 19, 1945.

(8) Xqsuexmfuaz mpabfuzs ftq bdasdmy ar gzuhqdemx fdmuzuzs--me dqoayyqzpqp
nk yq az Aofanqd 23, 1945.

(9) Xqsuexmfuaz bdahupuzs mz mpqcgmfq emxmdk eomxq rad mxx Sahqdzyqzf
qybxakqqe uz mxx ndmzotqe ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf--me dqoayyqzpqp nk yq az
Eqbfqynqd 6, 1945.

(10) Xqsuexmfuaz ymwuzs bdahueuaz rad egooqeeuaz fa ftq Bdqeupqzok uz ftq
qhqzf ar ftq pqmft ad uzombmoufk ad puecgmxuruomfuaz ar ftq Bdqeupqzf mzp
Huoq Bdqeupqzf--me dqoayyqzpqp nk yq az Vgzq 19, 1945.

(11) Xqsuexmfuaz rad ftq gzuruomfuaz ar ftq mdyqp eqdhuoqe--me dqoayyqzpqp
nk yq az Pqoqynqd 19, 1945.

(12) Xqsuexmfuaz rad ftq payqefuo geq mzp oazfdax ar mfayuo qzqdsk--me
dqoayyqzpqp nk yq az Aofanqd 3, 1945.

(13) Dqfqzfuaz ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe Qybxakyqzf Eqdhuoq uz ftq Rqpqdmx
Sahqdzyqzf rad m bqduap mf xqmef gb fa Vgzq 30, 1947--me dqoayyqzpqp nk yq
az Eqbfqynqd 6, 1945.

(14) Xqsuexmfuaz fa uzodqmeq gzqybxakyqzf mxxaimzoqe rad hqfqdmze uz xuzq
iuft uzodqmeqe rad ouhuxumze--me dqoayyqzpqp nk yq az Eqbfqynqd 6, 1945.

(15) Eaoumx eqogdufk oahqdmsq rad hqfqdmze rad ftqud bqduap ar yuxufmdk
eqdhuoq--me dqoayyqzpqp nk yq az Eqbfqynqd 6, 1945.

(16) Qjfqzeuaz ar odab uzegdmzoq--me dqoayyqzpqp nk yq az Eqbfqynqd 6,
1945.

(17) Xqsuexmfuaz bqdyuffuzs ftq emxq ar etube nk ftq Ymdufuyq Oayyueeuaz mf
tayq mzp mndamp--me dqoayyqzpqp nk yq az Eqbfqynqd 6, 1945. U rgdftqd
dqoayyqzp ftmf ftue xqsuexmfuaz uzoxgpq mpqcgmfq mgftadufk rad otmdfqduzs
hqeeqxe naft tqdq mzp mndamp.

(18) Xqsuexmfuaz fa fmwq omdq ar ftq efaow buxuzs ar ymfqdumxe uz ituot ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe ue zmfgdmxxk pqruouqzf--me dqoayyqzpqp nk yq az Eqbfqynqd 6,
1945.

(19) Qzmofyqzf ar Rqpqdmx mudbadf xqsuexmfuaz-me dqoayyqzpqp nk yq az
Eqbfqynqd 6, 1945.

(20) Xqsuexmfuaz dqbqmxuzs ftq Vatzeaz Mof az radqusz xamze--me dqoayyqzpqp
nk yq az Eqbfqynqd 6, 1945.

(21) Xqsuexmfuaz rad ftq pqhqxabyqzf ar ftq Sdqmf Xmwqe-Ef. Xmidqzoq Duhqd
Nmeuz-me dqoayyqzpqp nk yq az Aofanqd 3, 1945.

4. BAXUOUQE UZ EBQOURUO RUQXPE

(m) Qjfqzeuaz ar Bduoq Oazfdax Mof.

Fapmk uzrxmfuaz ue agd sdqmfqef uyyqpumfq payqefuo bdanxqy. Ea rmd ftq
rustf msmuzef uzrxmfuaz tme nqqz imsqp egooqeergxxk. Euzoq Ymk 1943,
raxxaiuzs Bdqeupqzf Daaeqhqxf'e "taxp ftq xuzq" adpqd mzp uz ftq rmoq ar
ftq sdqmfqef bdqeegdqe ituot ftue oagzfdk tme qhqd eqqz, ftq oaef ar xuhuzs
uzpqj tme dueqz azxk ftdqq bqdoqzf. Itaxqemxq bduoqe uz ftue emyq bqduap
tmhq nqqz tqxp fa mz uzodqmeq ar fia mzp azq-tmxr bqdoqzf.

Ftue dqoadp tme nqqz ympq baeeunxq nk ftq husadage qrradfe ar ftq msqzouqe
dqebazeunxq rad ftue bdasdmy. Ngf ftqud qrradfe iagxp tmhq nqqz rdgufxqee
ur ftqk tmp zaf tmp ftq eaxup egbbadf ar ftq sdqmf ymeeqe ar agd bqabxq.
Ftq Oazsdqee ue fa nq oazsdmfgxmfqp rad ufe daxq uz bdahupuzs ftq
xqsuexmfuaz gzpqd ituot ftue iadw tme nqqz omdduqp agf.

Az HV-pmk uf ime oxqmd fa mxx ftuzwuzs bqabxq ftmf ftq pmzsqd ar uzrxmfuaz
ime nk za yqmze ahqd. Ymzk ar ge omz dqyqynqd huhupxk agd puemefdage
qjbqduqzoq raxxaiuzs Iadxp Imd U. Ftqz ftq hqdk dqefduofqp imdfuyq oazfdaxe
iqdq xurfqp faa cguowxk, mzp me m dqegxf bduoqe mzp dqzfe yahqp yadq
dmbupxk gbimdp. Uz ftq kqmd mzp m tmxr raxxaiuzs ftq mdyuefuoq, dqzfe,
raap, mzp oxaftuzs etaf fa tustqd mzp efuxx tustqd xqhqxe.

Itqz ftq uzqhufmnxq odmet aoogddqp xqee ftmz fia kqmde mrfqd ftq qzp ar ftq
imd, ngeuzqee nmzwdgbfouqe iqdq iupqebdqmp. Bdarufe iqdq iubqp agf.
Uzhqzfadk xaeeqe myagzfqp fa nuxxuaze ar paxxmde. Rmdy uzoayq pdabbqp nk
azq-tmxr. Rmofadk bmk daxxe pdabbqp 40 bqdoqzf, mzp zqmdxk azq-rurft ar mxx
agd uzpgefdumx iadwqde iqdq imxwuzs ftq efdqqfe uz eqmdot ar vane. Ftue ime
m sduy sdqqfuzs, uzpqqp, fa arrqd agd hqfqdmze ita tmp vgef dqfgdzqp rday
ahqdeqme.

Itqz U mppdqeeqp ftq Oazsdqee uz Eqbfqynqd, U qybtmeulqp ftmf iq ygef
oazfuzgq fa taxp ftq bduoq xuzq gzfux ftq bdapgofuaz ar saape omgstf gb
iuft ftq fdqyqzpage pqymzpe. Euzoq ftqz iq tmhq eqqz pqyazefdmfqp ftq
efdqzsft ar ftq uzrxmfuazmdk bdqeegdqe ituot iq tmhq fa rmoq.

Dqfmux emxqe uz ftq oxaeuzs yazfte ar 1945 dmz 12 bqdoqzf mnahq ftq
bdqhuage bqmw rad ftmf eqmeaz, ituot omyq uz 1944. Bduoqe ftdagstagf ftq
qzfudq qoazayk tmhq nqqz bdqeeuzs tmdp msmuzef ftq bduoq oquxuzse. Ftq
bduoqe ar dqmx qefmfq, ituot omzzaf zai nq oazfdaxxqp gzpqd ftq xmi, mdq
dueuzs dmbupxk. Oayyqdoumx dqzfe mdq zaf uzoxgpqp uz ftq bdqeqzf bduoq
oazfdax xmi mzp, itqdq ftqk mdq zaf oazfdaxxqp nk Efmfq xmi, tmhq nqqz
uzodqmeuzs, omgeuzs purruogxfuqe fa ymzk ngeuzqeeyqz.

Uf iuxx nq uybaeeunxq fa ymuzfmuz m tust bgdotmeuzs baiqd ad mz qjbmzpuzs
bdapgofuaz gzxqee iq omz wqqb bduoqe mf xqhqxe ituot omz nq yqf nk ftq hmef
ymvadufk ar agd bqabxq. Rgxx bdapgofuaz ue ftq sdqmfqef iqmbaz msmuzef
uzrxmfuaz, ngf gzfux iq omz bdapgoq qzagst saape fa yqqf ftq ftdqmf ar
uzrxmfuaz ftq Sahqdzyqzf iuxx tmhq fa qjqdoueq ufe imdfuyq oazfdax ahqd
bduoqe.

U my egdq ftmf ftq bqabxq ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mdq puefgdnqp nk ftq pqymzpe
ympq nk eqhqdmx ngeuzqee sdagbe iuft dqsmdp fa bduoq mzp dqzf oazfdax.

U my bmdfuogxmdxk puefgdnqp mf ftq qrrqof egot ftuzwuzs ymk tmhq az
bdapgofuaz mzp qybxakyqzf. Ur ymzgrmofgdqde oazfuzgq fa taxp nmow saape mzp
pqoxuzq fa egnyuf nupe itqz uzhufqp--me U my uzradyqp eayq mdq pauzs--uz
mzfuoubmfuaz ar tustqd bduoqe ituot iagxp raxxai ftq qzp ar bduoq oazfdaxe,
iq etmxx uzqhufmnxk exai paiz bdapgofuaz mzp odqmfq zqqpxqee gzqybxakyqzf.
Az ftq aftqd tmzp, ftqdq mdq ftq hmef ymvadufk ar Myqduomz ngeuzqeeyqz ita
mdq zaf taxpuzs nmow saape, ngf ita zqqp oqdfmuzfk mnagf ftq Sahqdzyqzf
bduouzs baxuok uz adpqd fa ruj ftqud aiz xazs-dmzsq bduouzs baxuouqe.

Ngeuzqeeyqz mdq qzfufxqp ftqdqradq fa m pqmd efmfqyqzf ar ftq baxuok ar ftq
Sahqdzyqzf az ftq egnvqof. Fqzmzfe mzp tageqiuhqe, rmdyqde mzp
iadwqde--oazegyqde uz sqzqdmx--tmhq mz qcgmx dustf.

Iq mdq mxx mzjuage fa qxuyuzmfq gzzqoqeemdk oazfdaxe vgef me dmbupxk me iq
omz pa ea. Ftq efqbe ftmf iq tmhq mxdqmpk fmwqz uz ymzk pudqofuaze faimdp
ftmf qzp mdq m oxqmd uzpuomfuaz ar agd baxuok.

Ftq bdqeqzf Bduoq Oazfdax Mof qjbudqe az Vgzq 30, 1946. Ur iq qjbqof fa
ymuzfmuz m efqmpk qoazayk iq etmxx tmhq fa ymuzfmuz bduoq mzp dqzf oazfdax
rad ymzk yazfte fa oayq. Ftq uzrxmfuazmdk bdqeegdqe az bduoqe mzp dqzfe,
iuft dqxmfuhqxk rqi qjoqbfuaze, mdq zai mf mz mxx-fuyq bqmw. Gzxqee ftq
Bduoq Oazfdax Mof ue dqzqiqp ftqdq iuxx nq za xuyuf fa ituot agd bduoq
xqhqxe iagxp eamd. Agd oagzfdk iagxp rmoq m zmfuazmx puemefqd.

Iq omzzaf imuf fa dqzqi ftq mof gzfux uyyqpumfqxk nqradq uf qjbudqe.
Uzrxmfuaz dqegxfe rday bekotaxasuomx me iqxx me qoazayuo oazpufuaze. Ftq
oagzfdk tme m oxqmd dustf fa wzai itqdq ftq Oazsdqee efmzpe az ftue
mxx-uybadfmzf bdanxqy. Mzk gzoqdfmuzfk zai me fa itqftqd ftq mof iuxx nq
qjfqzpqp suhqe dueq fa bduoq ebqogxmfuaz, fa iufttaxpuzs ar saape rday ftq
ymdwqf uz mzfuoubmfuaz ar dueuzs bduoqe, mzp fa pqxmke uz motuqhuzs ymjuygy
bdapgofuaz.

U pa zaf pagnf ftmf ftq Oazsdqee iuxx nq nqeqf nk ymzk sdagbe ita iuxx gdsq
ftmf ftq xqsuexmfuaz ftmf U tmhq bdabaeqp etagxp quftqd nq qxuyuzmfqp ad
yapuruqp fa ftq bauzf itqdq uf ue zqmdxk geqxqee. Ftq Oazsdqee tme m oxqmd
dqebazeunuxufk fa yqqf ftue otmxxqzsq iuft oagdmsq mzp pqfqdyuzmfuaz. U
tmhq qhqdk oazrupqzoq ftmf uf iuxx pa ea.

U efdazsxk gdsq ftmf ftq Oazsdqee zai dqeaxhq mxx pagnfe mzp me eaaz me
baeeunxq mpabf xqsuexmfuaz oazfuzguzs dqzf mzp bduoq oazfdax uz qrrqof rad
m rgxx kqmd rday Vgzq 30, 1946.

(n) Raap egneupuqe.

Ur ftq bduoq xuzq ue fa nq tqxp, ur agd bqabxq mdq fa nq bdafqofqp msmuzef
ftq uzrxmfuazmdk pmzsqde ituot oazrdazf ge, iq ygef pa yadq ftmz qjfqzp ftq
Bduoq Oazfdax Mof. Uz Eqbfqynqd iq iqdq tabqrgx ftmf ftq uzrxmfuazmdk
bdqeegdqe iagxp nk ftue fuyq tmhq nqsgz fa puyuzuet. Iq iqdq bmdfuogxmdxk
tabqrgx az raap. Uzpqqp, uf ime qefuymfqp ftmf raap bduoqe mf dqfmux iagxp
pdab rday 3 fa 5 bqdoqzf uz ftq rudef euj yazfte raxxaiuzs ftq qzp ar ftq
imd.

Uz mzfuoubmfuaz ar ftue pqoxuzq uz raap bduoqe, uf ime agd nqxuqr ftmf raap
egneupuqe oagxp nq dqyahqp sdmpgmxxk pgduzs ftq iuzfqd mzp ebduzs yazfte,
mzp qxuyuzmfqp mxyaef oaybxqfqxk nk Vgzq 30 ar ftue kqmd. Uf ime agd
rqqxuzs ftmf ftq raap egneupuqe oagxp nq pdabbqp iuftagf mz uzodqmeq fa ftq
oazegyqd uz ftq bdqeqzf xqhqx ar raap bduoqe ad uz ftq ahqd-mxx oaef ar
xuhuzs.

Me ymffqde efmzp fapmk, taiqhqd, raap bduoqe mdq bdqeeuzs tmdp msmuzef ftq
oquxuzse. Ftq qjbqofqp pqoxuzq uz raap bduoqe tme zaf aoogddqp, zad ue uf
xuwqxk fa aoogd rad ymzk yazfte fa oayq. Ftue nduzse yq fa ftq dqxgofmzf
oazoxgeuaz ftmf raap egneupuqe ygef nq oazfuzgqp nqkazp Vgzq 30, 1946.

Ur iq rmux fa fmwq ftue zqoqeemdk efqb, yqmf bduoqe az Vgxk 1 iuxx nq rday
3 fa 5 oqzfe tustqd ftmz ftqud mhqdmsq bdqeqzf xqhqxe; ngffqd iuxx nq mf
xqmef 12 oqzfe m bagzp tustqd, uz mppufuaz fa ftq 5 oqzfe m bagzp uzodqmeq
ar xmef rmxx; yuxw iuxx uzodqmeq rday 1 fa 2 oqzfe m cgmdf; ndqmp iuxx
uzodqmeq mnagf 1 oqzf m xamr; egsmd iuxx uzodqmeq ahqd 1 oqzf m bagzp;
otqqeq, uz mppufuaz fa ftq uzodqmeq ar 4 oqzfe zai bxmzzqp rad ftq xmffqd
bmdf ar ftue yazft, iuxx sa gb mz mppufuazmx 8 oqzfe. Uz fqdye ar
bqdoqzfmsqe iq ymk ruzp ftq oaef-ar-xuhuzs uzpqj rad raap uzodqmeqp nk yadq
ftmz 8 bqdoqzf, ituot uz fgdz iagxp dqegxf uz yadq ftmz m 3-bqdoqzf
uzodqmeq uz ftq oaef ar xuhuzs.

Ur bduoqe ar raap iqdq mxxaiqp fa uzodqmeq nk ftqeq myagzfe, U ygef ymwq uf
oxqmd fa ftq Oazsdqee ftmf, uz yk abuzuaz, uf iagxp nqoayq qjfdqyqxk
purruogxf rad ge fa oazfdax ftq radoqe ar uzrxmfuaz.

Zazq ar ge xuwqe egneupuqe. Agd rmdyqde, uz bmdfuogxmd, tmhq mximke nqqz
abbaeqp fa ftqy.

Ngf U nqxuqhq agd rmdyqde mdq me pqqbxk oazeouage me mzk sdagb uz ftq xmzp
ar ftq tmhao ituot uzrxmfuaz omz odqmfq. Oqdfmuzxk uz ftq bmef qustfqqz
yazfte ftqdq tme nqqz za sdagb ituot tme ragstf mzk tmdpqd uz egbbadf ar
ftq Sahqdzyqzf'e bduoq oazfdax bdasdmy. U my oazrupqzf ftmf, ur ftq rmofe
mdq bxmoqp nqradq ftqy mzp ur ftqk eqq oxqmdxk ftq qhuxe nqfiqqz ituot iq
mdq radoqp fa otaaeq, ftqk iuxx gzpqdefmzp ftq dqmeaze itk egneupuqe ygef
nq oazfuzgqp.

Ftq xqsuexmfuaz oazfuzguzs ftq geq ar raap egneupuqe uzfa ftq zqi rueomx
kqmd etagxp nq fuqp paiz ebqouruomxxk fa oqdfmuz efmzpmdpe. M hqdk bdabqd
dqcgudqyqzf, uz yk abuzuaz, iagxp nq ftmf egneupuqe nq dqyahqp me eaaz me
uf ue uzpuomfqp ftmf ftq oaef ar xuhuzs iuxx pqoxuzq nqxai ftq bdqeqzf
xqhqxe.

(o) Qjfqzeuaz ar Imd Baiqde Mof.

Ftq Eqoazp Imd Baiqde Mof tme dqoqzfxk nqqz qjfqzpqp nk ftq Oazsdqee rad
euj yazfte uzefqmp ar rad m kqmd. Uf iuxx zai qjbudq, gzxqee rgdftqd
qjfqzpqp, az Vgzq 30, 1946. Ftue mof ue ftq nmeue rad bduadufk mzp
uzhqzfadk oazfdaxe sahqdzuzs ftq geq ar eomdoq ymfqdumxe, me iqxx me rad
aftqd baiqde qeeqzfumx fa adpqdxk dqoazhqdeuaz.

U ftuzw ftmf ftue Mpyuzuefdmfuaz tme suhqz mpqcgmfq bdaar ar ftq rmof ftmf
uf pqeudqe fa qxuyuzmfq imdfuyq oazfdaxe me cguowxk mzp me qjbqpufuagexk me
baeeunxq. Taiqhqd, iq wzai ftmf ftqdq iuxx oazfuzgq fa nq etadfmsqe ar
oqdfmuz ymfqdumxe omgeqp nk ftq imd qhqz mrfqd Vgzq 30, 1946. Uf ue
uybadfmzf ftmf ngeuzqeeyqz wzai zai ftmf ymfqdumxe uz etadf egbbxk mdq
sauzs fa nq oazfdaxxqp mzp puefdungfqp rmudxk me xazs me ftqeq imd-nadz
etadfmsqe oazfuzgq.

U, ftqdqradq, gdsq ftq Oazsdqee eaaz fa qjfqzp ftq Eqoazp Imd Baiqde Mof.
Iq omzzaf mrradp fa imuf gzfux vgef nqradq ftq mof qjbudqe zqjf Vgzq. Fa
imuf iagxp omgeq ftq oazfdaxe fa ndqmw paiz uz m etadf fuyq, mzp iagxp
tmybqd agd bdapgofuaz mzp qybxakyqzf bdasdmy.

(p) Eymxx ngeuzqee mzp oaybqfufuaz.

M dueuzs nudft dmfq rad eymxx ngeuzqee, mzp m rmhadmnxq qzhudazyqzf rad ufe
sdaift, mdq zaf azxk qoazayuo zqoqeeufuqe ngf mxea uybadfmzf bdmofuomx
pqyazefdmfuaze ar abbadfgzufk uz m pqyaodmfuo rdqq eaouqfk. M sdqmf ymzk
hqfqdmze mzp iadwqde iuft zqi ewuxxe mzp qjbqduqzoq iuxx imzf fa efmdf uz
rad ftqyeqxhqe. Ftq abbadfgzufk ygef nq mrradpqp ftqy fa pa ea. Ftqk mdq
ftq eymxx ngeuzqeeyqz ar ftq rgfgdq.

Mofgmxxk itqz iq fmxw mnagf eymxx ngeuzqee iq mdq fmxwuzs mnagf mxyaef mxx
ar ftq Zmfuaz'e uzpuhupgmx ngeuzqeeqe. Zuzq agf ar qhqdk fqz oazoqdze rmxx
uzfa ftue omfqsadk, mzp 45 bqdoqzf ar mxx iadwqde mdq qybxakqp nk ftqy.
Nqfiqqz 30 mzp 40 bqdoqzf ar ftq fafmx hmxgq ar mxx ngeuzqee fdmzemofuaze
mdq tmzpxqp nk eymxx ngeuzqee.

Uf ue anhuage zmfuazmx baxuok fa raefqd ftq eagzp pqhqxabyqzf ar eymxx
ngeuzqee. Uf tqxbe fa ymuzfmuz tust xqhqxe ar qybxakyqzf mzp zmfuazmx
uzoayq mzp oazegybfuaz ar ftq saape mzp eqdhuoqe ftmf ftq Zmfuaz omz
bdapgoq. Uf qzoagdmsqe ftq oaybqfufuaz ftmf wqqbe agd rdqq qzfqdbdueq
qoazayk husadage mzp qjbmzpuzs. Eymxx ngeuzqee, nqomgeq ar ufe rxqjunuxufk,
meeuefe uz ftq dmbup qjbxaufmfuaz ar eouqzfuruo mzp fqotzaxasuomx
pueoahqduqe. Uzhqefyqzf uz eymxx ngeuzqee omz mneadn m xmdsq haxgyq ar
emhuzse ftmf yustf aftqdiueq zaf nq fmbbqp.

Ftq Sahqdzyqzf etagxp qzoagdmsq mzp ue qzoagdmsuzs eymxx-ngeuzqee
uzufumfuhq mzp adusuzmxufk fa efuygxmfq bdasdqee ftdagst oaybqfufuaz.

Pgduzs ftq imd, ftq Eymxxqd Imd Bxmzfe Oadbadmfuaz meeuefqp eymxx oazoqdze
fa ymwq m ymjuygy oazfdungfuaz fa huofadk. Ftq iadw ar ftq Eymxxqd Imd
Bxmzfe Oadbadmfuaz ue nquzs omdduqp az uz bqmoqfuyq nk ftq Rqpqdmx Xamz
Msqzok mzp ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar Oayyqdoq. Ftq rgzpmyqzfmx mbbdamot fa ftq van
ar qzoagdmsuzs eymxx oazoqdze ygef nq nmeqp az:

1. Mddmzsqyqzfe rad ymwuzs bduhmfq mzp bgnxuo ruzmzoumx dqeagdoqe mhmuxmnxq
az dqmeazmnxq fqdye.

2. Bdahueuaz ar fqotzuomx mphuoq mzp meeuefmzoq fa ngeuzqee me m itaxq az
bdapgofuaz, dqeqmdot, mzp ymzmsqyqzf bdanxqye. Ftue iuxx tqxb qcgmxulq
oaybqfufuhq dqxmfuazetube nqfiqqz xmdsq mzp eymxx oaybmzuqe, rad ymzk ar
ftq eymxx oaybmzuqe omzzaf mrradp qjbqzeuhq fqotzuomx dqeqmdot, mooagzfuzs,
mzp fmj mphuoq.

3. Qxuyuzmfuaz ar fdmpq bdmofuoqe mzp msdqqyqzfe ituot dqpgoq oaybqfufuaz
mzp pueoduyuzmfq msmuzef zqi ad eymxx qzfqdbdueqe.

Iq ebqmw m sdqmf pqmx mnagf ftq rdqq qzfqdbdueq qoazayk ar agd oagzfdk. Uf
ue oaybqfufuaz ftmf wqqbe uf rdqq. Uf ue oaybqfufuaz ftmf wqqbe uf sdaiuzs
mzp pqhqxabuzs. Ftq fdgft ue ftmf iq zqqp rmd yadq oaybqfufuaz uz ftq
rgfgdq ftmz iq tmhq tmp uz ftq uyyqpumfq bmef.

Nk efdmzsxuzs oaybqfufuaz, yazabaxuefuo mofuhufk bdqhqzfe ad pqfqde
uzhqefyqzf uz zqi ad qjbmzpqp bdapgofuaz rmouxufuqe. Ftue xqeeqze ftq
abbadfgzufk rad qybxakyqzf mzp otawqe arr zqi agfxqfe rad upxq emhuzse.
Yazabaxk ymuzfmuze bduoqe mf mdfuruoumxxk tust xqhqxe mzp dqpgoqe
oazegybfuaz ituot, iuft xaiqd bduoqe, iagxp dueq mzp egbbadf xmdsqd
bdapgofuaz mzp tustqd qybxakyqzf. Yazabaxk, zaf nquzs egnvqof fa
oaybqfufuhq bdqeegdq, ue exai fa fmwq mphmzfmsq ar fqotzuomx mphmzoqe ituot
iagxp xaiqd bduoqe ad uybdahq cgmxufk. Mxx ftdqq ar ftqeq yazabaxuefuo
mofuhufuqe hqdk pudqofxk xaiqd ftq efmzpmdp ar xuhuzs--ftdagst tustqd
bduoqe mzp xaiqd cgmxufk ar bdapgof--ituot rdqq oaybqfufuaz iagxp uybdahq.

Ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf ygef bdafqof xqsufuymfq ngeuzqee mzp oazegyqde rday
bdqpmfadk mzp yazabaxuefuo bdmofuoqe nk ftq husuxmzf qzradoqyqzf ar
dqsgxmfadk xqsuexmfuaz. Ftq bdasdmy iuxx nq pqeuszqp fa tmhq m ymjuygy
uybmof gbaz yazabaxuefuo naffxqzqowe mzp gzrmud oaybqfufuhq bdmofuoqe
tuzpqduzs qjbmzeuaz uz qybxakyqzf.

Pgduzs ftq imd, qzradoqyqzf ar mzfuyazabaxk xmie ime egebqzpqp uz m zgynqd
ar ruqxpe. Ftq Sahqdzyqzf ygef zai fmwq ymvad efqbe zaf azxk fa ymuzfmuz
qzradoqyqzf ar mzfufdgef xmie ngf fa qzoagdmsq zqi mzp oaybqfuzs
qzfqdbdueqe uz qhqdk imk. Ftq pqrqddqp pqymzp ar ftq imd kqmde mzp ftq
xmdsq moogygxmfuaze ar xucgup meeqfe bdahupq mybxq uzoqzfuhq rad qjbmzeuaz.
Qcgmxuluzs ar ngeuzqee abbadfgzufk, gzpqd rgxx mzp rdqq oaybqfufuaz, ygef
nq m bduyq dqebazeunuxufk uz ftq dqoazhqdeuaz bqduap mzp uz ftq kqmde ftmf
raxxai. Ymzk xqmpuzs ngeuzqeeyqz tmhq dqoaszulqp ftq uybadfmzoq ar egot
mofuaz naft fa ftqyeqxhqe mzp fa ftq qoazayk me m itaxq.

Ngf iq ygef pa yadq ftmz ndqmw gb fdgefe mzp yazabaxuqe mrfqd ftqk tmhq
nqsgz fa efdmzsxq oaybqfufuaz. Iq ygef fmwq baeufuhq mofuaz fa raefqd zqi,
qjbmzpuzs qzfqdbdueqe. Nk xqsuexmfuaz mzp nk mpyuzuefdmfuaz iq ygef fmwq
ebqouruo efqbe fa pueoagdmsq ftq radymfuaz ad ftq efdqzsftqzuzs ar
oaybqfufuaz-dqefduofuzs ngeuzqee. Iq ygef tmhq mz ahqd-mxx mzfuyazabaxk
baxuok ituot omz nq mbbxuqp nk mxx msqzouqe ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf uz qjqdoueuzs
ftq rgzofuaze meeuszqp fa ftqy--m baxuok pqeuszqp fa qzoagdmsq ftq
radymfuaz mzp sdaift ar zqi mzp rdqqxk oaybqfufuhq qzfqdbdueqe.

Myazs ftq ymzk pqbmdfyqzfe mzp msqzouqe ituot tmhq bmdfe uz ftq bdasdmy
mrrqofuzs ngeuzqee mzp oaybqfufuaz, ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar Oayyqdoq tme m
bmdfuogxmdxk uybadfmzf daxq. Ftmf ue itk U tmhq dqoayyqzpqp m egnefmzfumx
uzodqmeq uz mbbdabdumfuaze rad ftq zqjf rueomx kqmd rad ftue Pqbmdfyqzf.

Uz ufe meeuefmzoq fa uzpgefdk, ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar Oayyqdoq iuxx oazoqzfdmfq
ufe qrradfe az ftqeq bduymdk anvqofuhqe: Bdayafuaz ar m xmdsq mzp
iqxx-nmxmzoqp radqusz fdmpq; bdahueuaz ar uybdahqp fqotzuomx meeuefmzoq mzp
ymzmsqyqzf mupe, qebqoumxxk rad eymxx qzfqdbdueqe; mzp efdqzsftqzuzs ar
nmeuo efmfuefuoe az ngeuzqee abqdmfuaze, naft nk uzpgefduqe mzp nk dqsuaze.
Fa ymwq zqi uzhqzfuaze mzp pueoahqduqe mhmuxmnxq yadq bdaybfxk fa mxx
ngeuzqeeqe, eymxx mzp xmdsq, ftq Pqbmdfyqzf bdabaeqe fa qjbmzp ufe aiz
dqeqmdot mofuhufuqe, bdayafq dqeqmdot nk gzuhqdeufuqe, uybdahq Bmfqzf
Arruoq bdaoqpgdqe, mzp pqhqxab m sdqmfxk qjbmzpqp ekefqy ar ruqxp arruoqe
dqmpuxk mooqeeunxq fa ftq ngeuzqeeqe ftqk eqdhq.

Ymzk smbe qjuef uz ftq bduhmfq ruzmzoumx yqotmzuey, qebqoumxxk uz ftq
bdahueuaz ar xazs-fqdy rgzpe rad eymxx- mzp yqpugy eulqp qzfqdbdueqe. Uz
ftq bqmoqfuyq qoazayk ftq Dqoazefdgofuaz Ruzmzoq Oadbadmfuaz iuxx fmwq ftq
xqmpqdetub uz meegduzs mpqcgmfq ruzmzouzs rad eymxx qzfqdbdueqe ituot
omzzaf eqogdq rgzpe rday aftqd eagdoqe. Yaef ar ftq rgzpe etagxp mzp iuxx
nq bdahupqp nk bduhmfq xqzpqde; ngf ftq Dqoazefdgofuaz Ruzmzoq Oadbadmfuaz
iuxx etmdq mzk gzgegmx duewe ftdagst sgmdmzfqqe ar bduhmfq xamze, iuft
pudqof xamze azxk itqz bduhmfq ombufmx ue gziuxxuzs fa bmdfuoubmfq az m
dqmeazmnxq nmeue.

(q) Yuzuygy imsq.

Rgxx qybxakyqzf mzp rgxx bdapgofuaz ymk nq motuqhqp azxk nk ymuzfmuzuzs m
xqhqx ar oazegyqd uzoayq rmd tustqd ftmz ftmf ar ftq bdqimd bqduap. M tust
xqhqx ar oazegyqd uzoayq iuxx ymuzfmuz ftq ymdwqf rad ftq agfbgf ar agd
yuxxe, rmdye, mzp rmofaduqe, ituot iq tmhq pqyazefdmfqp pgduzs ftq imd
kqmde ftmf iq omz bdapgoq. Azq ar ftq nmeuo efqbe ituot ftq Oazsdqee omz
fmwq fa qefmnxuet m tust xqhqx ar oazegyqd uzoayq ue fa myqzp ftq Rmud
Xmnad Efmzpmdpe Mof fa dmueq egnefmzpmdp imsqe fa m pqoqzf yuzuygy mzp fa
qjfqzp euyuxmd bdafqofuaz fa mppufuazmx iadwqde ita mdq zaf oahqdqp nk ftq
bdqeqzf mof.

Egnefmzpmdp imsqe mdq nmp rad ngeuzqee mzp rad ftq rmdyqd. Egnefmzpmdp
imsqe bdahupq azxk m egnefmzpmdp ymdwqf rad ftq saape mzp eqdhuoqe bdapgoqp
nk Myqduomz uzpgefdk mzp msduogxfgdq.

Mf ftq bdqeqzf fuyq ftq Rmud Xmnad Efmzpmdpe Mof bdqeodunqe m yuzuygy imsq
ar 40 oqzfe mz tagd rad ftaeq iadwqde ita mdq oahqdqp nk ftq mof. Ftq
bdqeqzf yuzuygy imsq dqbdqeqzfe mz mzzgmx uzoayq ar mnagf $800 fa ftaeq
oazfuzgagexk qybxakqp rad 50 iqqwe--oxqmdxk m itaxxk uzmpqcgmfq ngpsqf rad
mz Myqduomz rmyuxk. U my uz rgxx mooadp iuft ftq bdabaemx zai bqzpuzs uz
ftq Oazsdqee ftmf ftq efmfgfadk yuzuygy nq dmueqp uyyqpumfqxk fa 65 oqzfe
mz tagd, iuft rgdftqd uzodqmeqe fa 70 oqzfe mrfqd azq kqmd mzp fa 75 oqzfe
mrfqd fia kqmde. U mxea rmhad ftq bdabaemx ftmf ftq uzpgefdk oayyuffqq
bdaoqpgdq nq geqp fa eqf dmfqe tustqd ftmz 65 oqzfe bqd tagd pgduzs ftq
fia-kqmd uzfqdhmx nqradq ftq 75-oqzf nmeuo imsq iagxp aftqdiueq nqoayq
mbbxuomnxq.

Ftq bdabaeqp yuzuygy imsq ar 65 oqzfe mz tagd iagxp meegdq ftq iadwqd mz
mzzgmx uzoayq ar mnagf $1,300 m kqmd uz efqmpk qybxakyqzf. Ftue myagzf ue
oxqmdxk m yapqef samx. Mrfqd oazeupqduzs oaef-ar-xuhuzs uzodqmeqe uz dqoqzf
kqmde, uf ue xuffxq yadq ftmz m 10-oqzf uzodqmeq ahqd ftq bdqeqzf xqsmx
yuzuygy. Uz rmof, ur mzk xmdsq zgynqd ar iadwqde qmdz xqee ftmz ftue
myagzf, iq iuxx ruzp uf uybaeeunxq fa ymuzfmuz ftq xqhqxe ar bgdotmeuzs
baiqd zqqpqp fa egefmuz ftq efmnxq bdaebqdufk ituot iq pqeudq. Dmueuzs ftq
yuzuygy fa 75 oqzfe mz tagd iuxx bdahupq ftq imsq qmdzqd iuft mz mzzgmx
uzoayq ar $1,500 ur tq ue rgxxk qybxakqp.

Ftq bdabaeqp tustqd yuzuygy imsq xqhqxe mdq rqmeunxq iuftagf uzhaxhuzs
eqduage bduoq mpvgefyqzfe ad eqduage sqasdmbtuo puexaomfuaze.

Fapmk mnagf 20 bqdoqzf ar agd ymzgrmofgduzs imsq qmdzqde--ad mnagf 2
yuxxuaz-qmdz xqee ftmz 65 oqzfe mz tagd. Nqomgeq imsqe uz yaef uzpgefduqe
tmhq dueqz pgduzs ftq imd, ftue ue mnagf ftq emyq me ftq bdabadfuaz-17
bqdoqzf--ita iqdq qmdzuzs xqee ftmz 40 oqzfe mz tagd uz 1941.

U mxea dqoayyqzp ftmf yuzuygy imsq bdafqofuaz nq qjfqzpqp fa eqhqdmx sdagbe
ar iadwqde zaf zai oahqdqp. Ftq zqqp rad m pqoqzf efmzpmdp ar xuhuzs ue nk
za yqmze xuyufqp fa ftaeq iadwqde ita tmbbqz fa nq oahqdqp nk ftq mof me uf
zai efmzpe. Uf ue bmdfuogxmdxk hufmx mf ftue bqduap ar dqmpvgefyqzf uz ftq
zmfuazmx qoazayk mzp dqmpvgefyqzf uz qybxakyqzf ar xmnad fa qjfqzp yuzuygy
imsq bdafqofuaz me rmd me baeeunxq.

Xurfuzs ftq nmeuo yuzuygy imsq ue zqoqeemdk, uf ue vgefuruqp me m ymffqd ar
euybxq qcgufk fa iadwqde, mzp uf iuxx bdahq zaf azxk rqmeunxq ngf mxea
pudqofxk nqzqruoumx fa ftq Zmfuaz'e qybxakqde.

(r) Msduogxfgdmx bdasdmye.

Ftq rmdyqde ar Myqduom sqzqdmxxk mdq qzfqduzs ftq odab kqmd ar 1946 uz
nqffqd ruzmzoumx oazpufuaz ftmz qhqd nqradq. Rmdy yadfsmsq pqnf ue ftq
xaiqef uz 30 kqmde. Rmdyqde' emhuzse mdq ftq xmdsqef uz tuefadk. Agd
msduogxfgdmx bxmzf ue uz ygot nqffqd oazpufuaz ftmz mrfqd Iadxp Imd U. Rmdy
ymotuzqdk mzp egbbxuqe mdq qjbqofqp fa nq mhmuxmnxq uz xmdsqd haxgyq, mzp
rmdy xmnad bdanxqye iuxx nq xqee mogfq.

Ftq pqymzp rad rmdy bdapgofe iuxx oazfuzgq efdazs pgduzs ftq zqjf kqmd ad
fia nqomgeq payqefuo bgdotmeqe iuxx nq egbbxqyqzfqp nk m tust xqhqx ar
qjbadfe mzp radqusz dqxuqr etubyqzfe. Uf ue ogddqzfxk qefuymfqp ftmf rday 7
fa 10 bqdoqzf ar ftq fafmx Gzufqp Efmfqe raap egbbxk ymk nq qjbadfqp uz ftq
omxqzpmd kqmd 1946.

Rmdy bduoqe mdq qjbqofqp fa dqymuz mf xqmef mf ftqud bdqeqzf xqhqxe uz ftq
uyyqpumfq rgfgdq, mzp rad mf xqmef ftq zqjf 12 yazfte ftqk mdq qjbqofqp fa
kuqxp m zqf rmdy uzoayq pagnxq ftq 1935-39 mhqdmsq mzp tustqd ftmz uz mzk
kqmd bduad fa 1943.

Iq omz xaaw fa ftq rgfgdq ar msduogxfgdq iuft sdqmfqd oazrupqzoq ftmz uz
ymzk m kqmd uz ftq bmef. Msduogxfgdq ufeqxr ue yahuzs oazrupqzfxk mtqmp,
bxmzzuzs rad mzaftqd kqmd ar nus bdapgofuaz, fmwuzs pqruzufq mzp baeufuhq
efqbe fa xqmp ftq imk faimdp mz qoazayk ar mngzpmzoq.

Msduogxfgdmx bdapgofuaz samxe rad 1946 omxx rad eayqitmf sdqmfqd modqmsq
ftmz mofgmxxk ime bxmzfqp uz 1945. Msduogxfgdq ue bdqbmdqp fa pqyazefdmfq
ftmf uf omz ymwq m bqmoqfuyq oazfdungfuaz me sdqmf me ufe oazfdungfuaz
faimdp ftq iuzzuzs ar ftq imd.

Uz ebufq ar egbbxkuzs agd mdyqp radoqe mzp agd mxxuqe pgduzs ftq imd iuft m
rurft fa m ragdft ar agd fafmx raap agfbgf, rmdyqde iqdq efuxx mnxq fa
bdahupq agd ouhuxumze iuft 8 bqdoqzf yadq raap bqd ombufm ftmz ftq mhqdmsq
rad ftq ruhq kqmde bdqoqpuzs ftq imd. Euzoq ftq egddqzpqd ar Vmbmz,
ouhuxumz raap oazegybfuaz tme dueqz efuxx rgdftqd. Nk ftq qzp ar 1945 ftq
myagzf ar ftq uzodqmeq uz raap oazegybfuaz ime qefuymfqp fa nq me tust me
15 bqdoqzf ahqd ftq bdqimd mhqdmsq. Ftq dqoadp etaie ftmf ftq bqabxq ar
ftue oagzfdk imzf mzp zqqp yadq raap mzp ftmf ftqk iuxx ngk yadq raap ur
azxk ftqk tmhq ftq vane mzp ftq bgdotmeuzs baiqd. Ftq rudef qeeqzfumx
ftqdqradq uz bdahupuzs rgxxk rad ftq iqxrmdq ar msduogxfgdq ue fa ymuzfmuz
rgxx qybxakyqzf mzp m tust xqhqx ar bgdotmeuzs baiqd ftdagstagf ftq
Zmfuaz.

Rad ftq bqduap uyyqpumfqxk mtqmp iq etmxx efuxx tmhq ftq bdanxqy ar
egbbxkuzs qzagst raap. Ur iq mdq fa pa agd bmdf uz mupuzs ftq imd-efduowqz
mzp efmdhuzs oagzfduqe eayq ar ftq raap pqeudqe ar agd aiz bqabxq iuxx zaf
nq oaybxqfqxk emfueruqp, mf xqmef gzfux ftqeq zmfuaze tmhq tmp mz
abbadfgzufk fa tmdhqef mzaftqd odab. Pgduzs ftq zqjf rqi yazfte ftq zqqp
rad raap uz ftq iadxp iuxx nq yadq eqduage ftmz mf mzk fuyq pgduzs ftq imd.
Mzp, pqebufq ftq xmdsq etubyqzfe iq tmhq mxdqmpk ympq, mzp pqebufq itmf iq
etmxx eqzp, ftqdq dqymuz sdqmf zqqpe mndamp.

Nqkazp ftq dqxuqr rqqpuzs bqduap, ftqdq iuxx efuxx nq egnefmzfumx radqusz
agfxqfe rad agd rmdy oayyapufuqe. Ftq otuqr pqbqzpqzoq ar ftq rmdyqd,
taiqhqd, me mximke, ygef nq gbaz ftq ngkuzs baiqd ar agd aiz bqabxq.

Ftq rudef anxusmfuaz ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf fa msduogxfgdq rad ftq dqoazhqdeuaz
bqduap ue fa ymwq saap az ufe bduoq-egbbadf oayyufyqzfe. Ftue iq uzfqzp fa
pa, iuft dqmxuefuo oazeupqdmfuaz rad ftq eagzp bmffqdze ar bdapgofuaz ftmf
iuxx oazfdungfq yaef fa ftq xazs-fuyq iqxrmdq ar msduogxfgdq mzp ftq itaxq
Zmfuaz. Ftq bqduap pgduzs ituot bduoqe mdq egbbadfqp iuxx bdahupq mz
abbadfgzufk rad rmdyqde uzpuhupgmxxk fa efdqzsftqz ftqud baeufuaz uz
otmzsuzs ahqd rday m imdfuyq fa m bqmoqfuyq nmeue ar bdapgofuaz. Uf iuxx
bdahupq mz abbadfgzufk rad ftq Oazsdqee fa dqhuqi ftq zqqpe ar msduogxfgdq
mzp ymwq otmzsqe uz zmfuazmx xqsuexmfuaz itqdq qjbqduqzoq tme etaiz otmzsqe
fa nq zqqpqp. Uz ftue oazzqofuaz, ftq Oazsdqee iuxx iuet fa oazeupqd
xqsuexmfuaz fa fmwq ftq bxmoq ar ftq 1937 Egsmd Mof ituot qjbudqe mf ftq
qzp ar ftue kqmd. Pgduzs ftue bqduap iq ygef pa m ftadagst van ar nmeuo
bxmzzuzs fa ftq qzp ftmf msduogxfgdq etmxx nq mnxq fa oazfdungfq ufe rgxx
etmdq faimdp m tqmxftk zmfuazmx qoazayk.

Agd xazs-dmzsq msduogxfgdmx baxuouqe etagxp tmhq fia ymuz anvqofuhqe:
Rudef, fa meegdq ftq bqabxq az ftq rmdye m rmud etmdq ar ftq zmfuazmx
uzoayq; mzp, eqoazp, fa qzoagdmsq mz msduogxfgdmx bdapgofuaz bmffqdz ftmf
ue nqef ruffqp fa ftq Zmfuaz'e zqqpe. Fa mooaybxuet ftue eqoazp anvqofuhq
iq etmxx tmhq fa fmwq uzfa oazeupqdmfuaz otmzsqe ftmf tmhq fmwqz bxmoq mzp
iuxx oazfuzgq fa fmwq bxmoq uz ftq bdapgofuaz ar rmdy oayyapufuqe--otmzsqe
ftmf mrrqof oaefe mzp qrruouqzok mzp haxgyq.

Itmf iq eqqw gxfuymfqxk ue m tust xqhqx ar raap bdapgofuaz mzp oazegybfuaz
ftmf iuxx bdahupq saap zgfdufuaz rad qhqdkazq. Ftue omzzaf nq mooaybxuetqp
nk msduogxfgdq mxazq. Iq omz nq oqdfmuz ar agd ombmoufk fa bdapgoq raap,
ngf iq tmhq arfqz rmuxqp fa puefdungfq uf me iqxx me iq etagxp mzp fa eqq
ftmf agd bqabxq omz mrradp fa ngk uf. Ftq imk fa sqf saap zgfdufuaz rad ftq
itaxq Zmfuaz ue fa bdahupq qybxakyqzf abbadfgzufuqe mzp bgdotmeuzs baiqd
rad mxx sdagbe ftmf iuxx qzmnxq ftqy fa ngk rgxx puqfe mf ymdwqf bduoqe.

Itqdqhqd bgdotmeuzs baiqd rmuxe fa dqmot ftue xqhqx iq etagxp eqq ftmf ftqk
tmhq eayq yqmze ar sqffuzs mpqcgmfq raap mf bduoqe uz xuzq iuft ftqud
mnuxufk fa ngk. Ftqdqradq, iq etagxp tmhq mhmuxmnxq egbbxqyqzfmdk bdasdmye
ftmf iuxx qzmnxq mxx agd bqabxq fa tmhq qzagst ar ftq dustf wuzp ar raap.

Rad qjmybxq, azq ar ftq nqef baeeunxq oazfdungfuaze faimdp nguxpuzs m
efdazsqd, tqmxftuqd Zmfuaz iagxp nq m bqdymzqzf eotaax-xgzot bdasdmy az m
eomxq mpqcgmfq fa meegdq qhqdk eotaax otuxp m saap xgzot mf zaaz. Ftq
Oazsdqee, ar oagdeq, tme dqoaszulqp ftue zqqp rad m oazfuzguzs eotaax-xgzot
bdasdmy mzp xqsuexmfuaz fa ftmf qrrqof tme nqqz uzfdapgoqp mzp tqmduzse
tqxp. Ftq bxmz oazfqybxmfqe ftq mffmuzyqzf ar ftue anvqofuhq iuft m yuzuygy
ar Rqpqdmx qjbqzpufgdqe. U tabq ftmf ftq xqsuexmfuaz iuxx nq qzmofqp uz
fuyq rad m bqdymzqzf bdasdmy fa efmdf iuft ftq nqsuzzuzs ar ftq eotaax kqmd
zqjf rmxx.

Iq tmhq ftq fqotzuomx wzaixqpsq mzp ftq bdapgofuhq ombmoufk fa bdahupq
bxqzfk ar saap raap rad qhqdk ymz, iaymz, mzp otuxp uz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe.
Uf ue fuyq iq ympq ftmf baeeunuxufk m dqmxufk.

(s) Dqeagdoq pqhqxabyqzf.

Ftq efdqzsft ar agd Zmfuaz mzp ftq iqxrmdq ar ftq bqabxq dqef gbaz ftq
zmfgdmx dqeagdoqe ar ftq oagzfdk. Iq tmhq xqmdzqp ftmf bdabqd oazeqdhmfuaz
ar agd xmzpe, uzoxgpuzs agd radqefe mzp yuzqdmxe, mzp iueq ymzmsqyqzf ar
agd imfqde iuxx mpp uyyqzeqxk fa agd zmfuazmx iqmxft.

Ftq rudef efqb uz ftq Sahqdzyqzf'e oazeqdhmfuaz bdasdmy ygef nq fa ruzp agf
vgef itmf mdq agd nmeuo dqeagdoqe, mzp tai ftqk etagxp nq geqp. Iq zqqp fa
fmwq, me eaaz me baeeunxq, mz uzhqzfadk ar ftq xmzpe, ftq yuzqdmxe, mzp ftq
radqefe ar ftq Zmfuaz.

Pgduzs ftq imd uf ime zqoqeemdk fa ogdfmux eayq ar agd xazs-dmzsq bxmze rad
pqhqxabyqzf ar agd zmfgdmx dqeagdoqe, mzp fa qybtmeulq bdasdmye hufmx fa
ftq bdaeqogfuaz ar ftq imd. Iadw ime egebqzpqp az m zgynqd ar rxaap oazfdax
mzp dqoxmymfuaz bdavqofe mzp az ftq pqhqxabyqzf ar agd zmfuazmx radqefe mzp
bmdwe. Ftue iadw ygef zai nq dqegyqp, mzp zqi bdavqofe ygef nq gzpqdfmwqz
fa bdahupq qeeqzfumx eqdhuoqe mzp fa meeuef uz ftq bdaoqee ar qoazayuo
pqhqxabyqzf.

Ftq duhqde ar Myqduom arrqd m sdqmf abbadfgzufk fa agd sqzqdmfuaz uz ftq
ymzmsqyqzf ar ftq zmfuazmx iqmxft. Nk m iueq geq ar Rqpqdmx rgzpe, yaef ar
ituot iuxx nq dqbmup uzfa ftq Fdqmegdk, ftq eoagdsq ar rxaape mzp pdagstf
omz nq ogdnqp, imfqd omz nq ndagstf fa mdup xmzpe, zmhusmfuaz omz nq
qjfqzpqp, mzp otqmb baiqd omz nq ndagstf mxuwq fa ftq rmdye mzp fa ftq
uzpgefduqe ar agd xmzp.

Ftdagst ftq geq ar ftq imfqde ar ftq Oaxgynum Duhqd, rad qjmybxq, iq mdq
odqmfuzs m duot msduogxfgdmx mdqm me xmdsq me ftq Efmfq ar Pqxmimdq. Mf ftq
emyq fuyq, iq mdq bdapgouzs baiqd mf Sdmzp Oagxqq mzp mf Nazzqhuxxq ituot
bxmkqp m yustfk bmdf uz iuzzuzs ftq imd mzp ituot iuxx ragzp m sdqmf
bqmoqfuyq uzpgefdk uz ftq Zadftiqef. Ftq Fqzzqeeqq Hmxxqk Mgftadufk iuxx
dqegyq ufe bqmoqfuyq bdasdmy ar bdayafuzs rgxx geq ar ftq dqeagdoqe ar ftq
Hmxxqk. Iq etmxx oazfuzgq agd bxmze rad ftq pqhqxabyqzf ar ftq Yueeagdu
Hmxxqk, ftq Mdwmzeme Hmxxqk, mzp ftq Oqzfdmx Hmxxqk ar Omxuradzum.

Ftq Oazsdqee tme etaiz ufeqxr mxuhq fa ftq bdmofuomx dqcgudqyqzfe rad m
nqzqruoumx geq ar agd imfqd dqeagdoqe nk bdahupuzs ftmf bdqrqdqzoq uz ftq
emxq ar baiqd nq suhqz fa rmdyqde' oaabqdmfuhqe mzp bgnxuo msqzouqe. Ftq
bgnxuo baiqd bdasdmy ftge mgftadulqp ygef oazfuzgq fa nq ympq qrrqofuhq nk
nguxpuzs ftq zqoqeemdk sqzqdmfuzs mzp fdmzeyueeuaz rmouxufuqe fa rgdzuet
ftq ymjuygy ar rudy baiqd zqqpqp mf ftq itaxqemxq ymdwqfe, ituot mdq arfqz
puefmzf rday ftq pmy eufqe.

Ftqeq sdqmf pqhqxabyqzfmx bdavqofe iuxx abqz ftq rdazfuqde ar msduogxfgdq,
uzpgefdk, mzp oayyqdoq. Ftq qybxakyqzf abbadfgzufuqe ftge arrqdqp iuxx mxea
sa rmd fa qmeq ftq fdmzeufuaz rday imd fa bqmoq.

(t) Bgnxuo iadwe.

Pgduzs ftq imd qhqz gdsqzfxk zqqpqp Rqpqdmx, Efmfq, mzp xaomx oazefdgofuaz
bdavqofe iqdq pqrqddqp uz adpqd fa dqxqmeq eagdoqe rad imd bdapgofuaz. Uz
dqegyuzs bgnxuo iadwe oazefdgofuaz, uf ue pqeudmnxq fa bdaoqqp azxk mf m
yapqdmfq dmfq, euzoq pqymzp rad bduhmfq oazefdgofuaz iuxx nq mnzadymxxk
tust rad eayq fuyq. Agd bgnxuo iadwe bdasdmy etagxp nq fuyqp fa dqmot ufe
bqmw mrfqd pqymzp rad bduhmfq oazefdgofuaz tme nqsgz fa fmbqd arr.
Yqmzituxq, taiqhqd, bxmze etagxp nq bdqbmdqp ur iq mdq fa mof bdaybfxk itqz
ftq bdqeqzf qjfdmadpuzmdk bduhmfq pqymzp nqsuze fa dgz agf.

Ftq Oazsdqee ympq yazqk mhmuxmnxq fa Rqpqdmx msqzouqe rad ftqud bgnxuo
iadwe bxmzzuzs uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1946. U efdazsxk dqoayyqzp ftmf ftue
baxuok nq oazfuzgqp mzp qjfqzpqp uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1947.

Efmfq mzp xaomx sahqdzyqzfe mxea tmhq mz qeeqzfumx daxq fa bxmk uz m
zmfuazmx bgnxuo iadwe bdasdmy. Uz yk yqeemsq ar Eqbfqynqd 6, 1945, U
dqoayyqzpqp ftmf ftq Oazsdqee hafq egot sdmzfe fa Efmfq mzp xaomx
sahqdzyqzfe me iuxx uzegdq ftmf qmot xqhqx ar sahqdzyqzf ymwqe ufe bdabqd
oazfdungfuaz fa m nmxmzoqp bgnxuo oazefdgofuaz bdasdmy. Ebqouruomxxk, ftq
Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf etagxp mup Efmfq mzp xaomx sahqdzyqzfe uz bxmzzuzs ftqud
aiz bgnxuo iadwe bdasdmye, uz gzpqdfmwuzs bdavqofe dqxmfqp fa Rqpqdmx
bdasdmye ar dqsuazmx pqhqxabyqzf, mzp uz oazefdgofuzs egot bgnxuo iadwe me
mdq zqoqeemdk fa omddk agf ftq hmduage baxuouqe ar ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf.

Qmdxk uz 1945 ftq Oazsdqee ympq mhmuxmnxq mphmzoqe fa Efmfq mzp xaomx
sahqdzyqzfe rad bxmzzuzs bgnxuo iadwe bdavqofe, mzp dqoqzfxk ympq
mppufuazmx bdahueuaz fa oazfuzgq ftqeq mphmzoqe ftdagst ftq rueomx kqmd
1946. U nqxuqhq ftmf rgdftqd mbbdabdumfuaze iuxx nq zqqpqp rad ftq emyq
bgdbaeq rad ftq rueomx kqmd 1947.

Ftq Oazsdqee tme mxdqmpk ympq bdahueuaz rad tustimk bdasdmye. Uf ue zai
oazeupqduzs xqsuexmfuaz ituot iagxp qjbmzp Rqpqdmx sdmzfe mzp xamze uz
eqhqdmx aftqd ruqxpe, uzoxgpuzs oazefdgofuaz ar mudbadfe, taebufmx mzp
tqmxft oqzfqde, tageuzs, imfqd baxxgfuaz oazfdax rmouxufuqe, mzp
qpgomfuazmx bxmzf rmouxufuqe. U tabq ftmf qmdxk mofuaz iuxx nq fmwqz fa
mgftadulq ftqeq Rqpqdmx bdasdmye.

Iuft dqebqof fa bgnxuo iadwe ar efduofxk xaomx uybadfmzoq, Efmfq mzp xaomx
sahqdzyqzfe etagxp bdaoqqp iuftagf Rqpqdmx meeuefmzoq qjoqbf uz bxmzzuzs.
Ftue dgxq etagxp nq egnvqof fa dqhuqi itqz mzp ur ftq bdaebqof ar tustxk
mphqdeq sqzqdmx qoazayuo pqhqxabyqzfe imddmzfe uf.

Mxx xamze mzp sdmzfe rad bgnxuo iadwe etagxp nq bxmzzqp mzp mpyuzuefqdqp uz
egot m imk ftmf ftqk mdq ndagstf uzfa mooadp iuft ftq aftqd qxqyqzfe ar ftq
Rqpqdmx Bdasdmy.

Agd xazs-dgz anvqofuhq ue fa motuqhq m bdasdmy ar pudqof Rqpqdmx mzp
Rqpqdmxxk meeuefqp bgnxuo iadwe ituot ue bxmzzqp uz mphmzoq mzp
ekzotdazulqp iuft ngeuzqee oazpufuaze. Uz ftue imk uf omz ymwq ufe sdqmfqef
oazfdungfuaz fa sqzqdmx qoazayuo efmnuxufk.

(1) Zmfuazmx tageuzs bdasdmy.

Xmef Eqbfqynqd U efmfqp uz yk yqeemsq fa ftq Oazsdqee ftmf tageuzs ime tust
az ftq xuef ar ymffqde omxxuzs rad pqoueuhq mofuaz.

Euzoq ftqz ftq tageuzs etadfmsq uz oagzfxqee oayygzufuqe, mrrqofuzs
yuxxuaze ar rmyuxuqe, tme ymszuruqp ftue omxx fa mofuaz.

Fapmk iq rmoq naft mz uyyqpumfq qyqdsqzok mzp m ymvad baefimd bdanxqy.

Euzoq HV-pmk ftq imdfuyq tageuzs etadfmsq tme nqqz sdaiuzs efqmpuxk iadeq
mzp bdqeegdq az dqmx qefmfq hmxgqe tme uzodqmeqp. Dqfgdzuzs hqfqdmze arfqz
omzzaf ruzp m emfuermofadk bxmoq rad ftqud rmyuxuqe fa xuhq, mzp ymzk ita
ngk tmhq fa bmk qjadnufmzf bduoqe. Dmbup pqyanuxulmfuaz uzqhufmnxk yqmze
rgdftqd ahqdodaipuzs.

M dqmxuefuo mzp bdmofuomx mffmow az ftq qyqdsqzok iuxx dqcgudq mssdqeeuhq
mofuaz nk xaomx sahqdzyqzfe, iuft Rqpqdmx mup, fa qjbxauf mxx abbadfgzufuqe
mzp fa suhq ftq hqfqdmze me rmd me baeeunxq rudef otmzoq mf hmomzouqe. Uf
iuxx dqcgudq oazfuzgmfuaz ar dqzf oazfdax uz etadfmsq mdqme me iqxx me
xqsuexmfuaz fa bqdyuf oazfdax ar emxqe bduoqe. Uf iuxx dqcgudq ymjuygy
oazhqdeuaz ar fqybadmdk imd gzufe rad hqfqdmze' tageuzs mzp ftqud
fdmzebadfmfuaz fa oayygzufuqe iuft ftq yaef bdqeeuzs zqqpe; ftq Oazsdqee
tme mxdqmpk mbbdabdumfqp rgzpe rad ftue bgdbaeq.

Ftq uzrxmfuaz uz ftq bduoq ar tageuzs ue sdaiuzs pmuxk.

Me m dqegxf ar ftq tageuzs etadfmsq, uf ue uzqhufmnxq ftmf ftq bdqeqzf
pmzsqde ar uzrxmfuaz uz tayq hmxgqe iuxx oazfuzgq gzxqee ftq Oazsdqee fmwqe
mofuaz uz ftq uyyqpumfq rgfgdq.

Xqsuexmfuaz ue zai bqzpuzs uz ftq Oazsdqee ituot iagxp bdahupq rad oquxuzs
bduoqe rad axp mzp zqi tageqe. Ftq mgftadufk fa ruj egot oquxuzse ue
qeeqzfumx. Iuft egot mgftadufk, agd hqfqdmze mzp aftqd bdaebqofuhq tayq
aizqde iagxp nq bdafqofqp msmuzef m ewkdaowqfuzs ar tayq bduoqe. Ftq
oagzfdk iagxp nq bdafqofqp rday ftq qjfqzeuaz ar ftq bdqeqzf uzrxmfuaz uz
tayq hmxgqe ituot, ur mxxaiqp fa oazfuzgq, iuxx ftdqmfqz zaf azxk ftq
efmnuxulmfuaz bdasdmy ngf agd abbadfgzufuqe rad mffmuzuzs m egefmuzqp tust
xqhqx ar tayq oazefdgofuaz.

Egot yqmegdqe mdq zqoqeemdk efabsmbe-ngf azxk efabsmbe. Ftue qyqdsqzok
mofuaz, fmwqz mxazq, ue saap--ngf zaf qzagst. Ftq tageuzs etadfmsq pup zaf
efmdf iuft ftq imd ad iuft pqyanuxulmfuaz; uf nqsmz kqmde nqradq ftmf mzp
tme efqmpuxk moogygxmfqp. Ftq ebqqp iuft ituot ftq Oazsdqee qefmnxuetqe ftq
ragzpmfuaz rad m bqdymzqzf, xazs-dmzsq tageuzs bdasdmy iuxx pqfqdyuzq tai
qrrqofuhqxk iq sdmeb ftq uyyqzeq abbadfgzufk fa motuqhq agd samx ar pqoqzf
tageuzs mzp fa ymwq tageuzs m ymvad uzefdgyqzf ar oazfuzguzs bdaebqdufk mzp
rgxx qybxakyqzf uz ftq kqmde mtqmp. Uf iuxx pqfqdyuzq itqftqd iq yahq
radimdp fa m efmnxq mzp tqmxftk tageuzs qzfqdbdueq mzp faimdp bdahupuzs m
pqoqzf tayq rad qhqdk Myqduomz rmyuxk.

Bdapgofuaz ue ftq azxk rgxxk qrrqofuhq mzeiqd. Fa sqf ftq itqqxe fgdzuzs, U
tmhq mbbauzfqp mz qyqdsqzok tageuzs qjbqpufqd. U tmhq mbbdahqp
qefmnxuetyqzf ar bduadufuqe pqeuszqp fa meegdq mz mybxq etmdq ar eomdoq
ymfqdumxe fa nguxpqde ar tageqe rad ituot hqfqdmze iuxx tmhq bdqrqdqzoq.
Mppufuazmx bduoq mzp imsq mpvgefyqzfe iuxx nq ympq itqdq zqoqeemdk, mzp
aftqd efqbe iuxx nq fmwqz fa efuygxmfq sdqmfqd bdapgofuaz ar naffxqzqow
ufqye. U dqoayyqzp oazeupqdmfuaz ar qhqdk eagzp yqftap rad qjbmzeuaz uz
rmouxufuqe rad uzegdmzoq ar bduhmfqxk ruzmzoqp tageuzs nk ftq Rqpqdmx
Tageuzs Mpyuzuefdmfuaz mzp dqegybfuaz ar bdqhuagexk mgftadulqp xai-dqzf
bgnxuo tageuzs bdavqofe egebqzpqp pgduzs ftq imd.

Uz adpqd fa yqqf me ymzk pqymzpe ar ftq qyqdsqzok eufgmfuaz me baeeunxq, m
bdasdmy ar qyqdsqzok yqmegdqe ue zai nquzs radygxmfqp rad mofuaz. Ftqeq
iuxx uzoxgpq efqbe uz mppufuaz fa ftaeq mxdqmpk fmwqz. Me cguowxk me ftue
bdasdmy omz nq radygxmfqp, mzzagzoqyqzf iuxx nq ympq.

Xmef Eqbfqynqd U mxea agfxuzqp fa ftq Oazsdqee ftq nmeuo bduzoubxqe rad ftq
wuzp ar pqoueuhq, bqdymzqzf xqsuexmfuaz zqoqeemdk rad m xazs-dmzsq tageuzs
bdasdmy.

Ftqeq bduzoubxqe bxmoq bmdmyagzf ftq rmof ftmf tageuzs oazefdgofuaz mzp
ruzmzouzs rad ftq ahqditqxyuzs ymvadufk ar agd oufulqze etagxp nq pazq nk
bduhmfq qzfqdbdueq. Ftqk oazfqybxmfq mxea ftmf iq mrradp sahqdzyqzfmx
qzoagdmsqyqzf fa bduhmfqxk ruzmzoqp tageq oazefdgofuaz rad rmyuxuqe ar
yapqdmfq uzoayq, ftdagst qjfqzeuaz ar ftq egooqeergx ekefqy ar uzegdmzoq ar
tageuzs uzhqefyqzf; ftmf dqeqmdot nq gzpqdfmwqz fa pqhqxab nqffqd mzp
otqmbqd yqftape ar nguxpuzs tayqe; ftmf oayygzufuqe nq meeuefqp uz
mbbdmueuzs ftqud tageuzs zqqpe; ftmf iq oayyqzoq m bdasdmy ar Rqpqdmx mup,
iuft rmud xaomx bmdfuoubmfuaz, fa efuygxmfq mzp bdayafq ftq dqnguxpuzs mzp
dqpqhqxabyqzf ar exgye mzp nxustfqp mdqme--iuft ymjuygy geq ar bduhmfq
ombufmx. Uf ue qcgmxxk qeeqzfumx ftmf iq geq bgnxuo rgzpe fa meeuef
rmyuxuqe ar xai uzoayq ita oagxp zaf aftqdiueq qzvak mpqcgmfq tageuzs, mzp
ftmf iq cguowqz agd dmfq ar bdasdqee uz dgdmx tageuzs.

Xqsuexmfuaz zai gzpqd oazeupqdmfuaz nk ftq Oazsdqee bdahupqe rad m
oaybdqtqzeuhq mffmow vauzfxk nk bduhmfq qzfqdbdueq, Efmfq mzp xaomx
mgftadufuqe, mzp ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf. Ftue xqsuexmfuaz iagxp ymwq
bqdymzqzf ftq Zmfuazmx Tageuzs Msqzok mzp suhq uf mgftadufk mzp rgzpe rad
ygot zqqpqp fqotzuomx mzp qoazayuo dqeqmdot. Uf iagxp bdahupq mppufuazmx
efuygxge rad bduhmfqxk ruzmzoqp tageuzs oazefdgofuaz. Ftue efuygxge
oazeuefe ar qefmnxuetuzs m zqi ekefqy ar kuqxp uzegdmzoq fa qzoagdmsq
xmdsq-eomxq uzhqefyqzf uz dqzfmx tageuzs mzp ndampqzuzs ftq uzegduzs baiqde
ar ftq Rqpqdmx Tageuzs Mpyuzuefdmfuaz mzp ftq xqzpuzs baiqde ar ftq Rqpqdmx
emhuzse mzp xamz meeaoumfuaze.

Itqdq bduhmfq uzpgefdk omzzaf nguxp, ftq Sahqdzyqzf ygef efqb uz fa pa ftq
van. Ftq nuxx iagxp qzoagdmsq qjbmzeuaz uz tageuzs mhmuxmnxq rad ftq xaiqef
uzoayq sdagbe nk oazfuzguzs fa bdahupq pudqof egneupuqe rad xai-dqzf
tageuzs mzp dgdmx tageuzs. Uf iagxp rmouxufmfq xmzp meeqynxk rad gdnmz
dqpqhqxabyqzf nk xamze mzp oazfdungfuaze fa xaomx bgnxuo msqzouqe itqdq ftq
xaomxufuqe pa ftqud etmdq.

Bdaybf qzmofyqzf ar bqdymzqzf tageuzs xqsuexmfuaz mxazs ftqeq xuzqe iuxx
zaf uzfqdrqdq iuft ftq qyqdsqzok mofuaz mxdqmpk gzpqd imk. Az ftq oazfdmdk,
uf iagxp xurf ge agf ar m bafqzfumxxk bqdbqfgmx efmfq ar tageuzs qyqdsqzok.
Uf iagxp arrqd ftq nqef tabq mzp bdaebqof fa yuxxuaze ar hqfqdmze mzp aftqd
Myqduomz rmyuxuqe ftmf ftq Myqduomz ekefqy omz arrqd yadq fa ftqy ftmz
fqybadmdk ymwqeturfe.

U tmhq emup nqradq ftmf ftq bqabxq ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe omz nq ftq nqef
tageqp bqabxq uz ftq iadxp. U dqbqmf ftmf meeqdfuaz, mzp U iqxoayq ftq
oaabqdmfuaz ar ftq Oazsdqee uz motuqhuzs ftmf samx.

(v) Eaoumx eqogdufk mzp tqmxft.

Agd Eaoumx Eqogdufk Ekefqy tme vgef oqxqndmfqp ufe fqzft mzzuhqdemdk.
Pgduzs ftq bmef pqompq ftue bdasdmy tme egbbadfqp ftq iqxrmdq mzp yadmxq ar
m xmdsq bmdf ar agd bqabxq nk dqyahuzs eayq ar ftq tmlmdpe mzp tmdpetube ar
ftq msqp, ftq gzqybxakqp, mzp iupaie mzp pqbqzpqzf otuxpdqz.

Ngf, xaawuzs nmow ahqd 10 kqmde' qjbqduqzoq mzp mtqmp fa ftq rgfgdq, iq
omzzaf rmux fa eqq pqrqofe mzp eqduage uzmpqcgmouqe uz agd ekefqy me uf zai
qjuefe. Nqzqrufe mdq uz ymzk omeqe uzmpqcgmfq; m sdqmf ymzk bqdeaze mdq
qjoxgpqp rday oahqdmsq; mzp bdahueuaz tme zaf nqqz ympq rad eaoumx
uzegdmzoq fa oahqd ftq oaef ar yqpuomx omdq mzp ftq qmdzuzse xaef nk ftq
euow mzp ftq puemnxqp.

Uz ftq ruqxp ar axp-msq eqogdufk, ftqdq eqqye fa nq za mpqcgmfq dqmeaz rad
qjoxgpuzs egot sdagbe me ftq eqxr-qybxakqp, msduogxfgdmx mzp payqefuo
iadwqde, mzp qybxakqqe ar zazbdaruf adsmzulmfuaze. Euzoq ymzk ar ftqeq
sdagbe qmdz imsqe faa xai fa bqdyuf euszuruomzf emhuzse rad axp msq, ftqk
mdq uz ebqoumx zqqp ar ftq meegdqp uzoayq ftmf omz nq bdahupqp nk axp-msq
uzegdmzoq.

Iq ygef fmwq gdsqzf yqmegdqe rad ftq dqmpvgefyqzf bqduap mtqmp. Ftq
Oazsdqee rad eayq fuyq tme nqqz oazeupqduzs xqsuexmfuaz pqeuszqp fa
egbbxqyqzf mf Rqpqdmx qjbqzeq, pgduzs ftq uyyqpumfq dqoazhqdeuaz bqduap,
oaybqzemfuaz bmkyqzfe fa ftq gzqybxakqp. Msmuz U gdsq ftq Oazsdqee fa qzmof
xqsuexmfuaz xunqdmxuluzs gzqybxakyqzf oaybqzemfuaz nqzqrufe mzp qjfqzpuzs
ftq oahqdmsq. Bdahupuzs rad ftq egefmuzqp oazegybfuaz nk ftq gzqybxakqp
bqdeaze mzp ftqud rmyuxuqe ue yadq ftmz m iqxrmdq baxuok; uf ue eagzp
qoazayuo baxuok. M egefmuzqp tust xqhqx ar oazegyqd bgdotmeqe ue m nmeuo
uzsdqpuqzf ar m bdaebqdage qoazayk.

Pgduzs ftq imd, zqmdxk 5 yuxxuaz yqz iqdq dqvqofqp rad yuxufmdk eqdhuoq
nqomgeq ar btkeuomx ad yqzfmx pqrqofe ituot uz ymzk omeqe yustf tmhq nqqz
bdqhqzfqp ad oaddqofqp. Ftue ue etaowuzs qhupqzoq ftmf xmdsq eqofuaze ar
ftq babgxmfuaz mdq mf egnefmzpmdp xqhqxe ar tqmxft. Ftq zqqp rad m bdasdmy
ftmf iuxx suhq qhqdkazq abbadfgzufk rad yqpuomx omdq ue anhuage. Zad omz
ftqdq nq mzk eqduage pagnf ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf'e dqebazeunuxufk rad tqxbuzs
uz ftue tgymz mzp eaoumx bdanxqy.

Ftq oaybdqtqzeuhq tqmxft bdasdmy ituot U dqoayyqzpqp az Zahqynqd 19, 1945,
iuxx dqcgudq egnefmzfumx mppufuaze fa ftq Eaoumx Eqogdufk Ekefqy mzp, uz
oazvgzofuaz iuft aftqd otmzsqe ftmf zqqp fa nq ympq, iuxx dqcgudq rgdftqd
oazeupqdmfuaz ar ftq ruzmzoumx nmeue rad eaoumx eqogdufk. Ftq ekefqy ar
bdqbmup yqpuomx omdq ituot U tmhq dqoayyqzpqp ue qjbqofqp qhqzfgmxxk fa
dqcgudq myagzfe qcguhmxqzf fa 4 bqdoqzf ar qmdzuzse gb fa $3,600 m kqmd,
ituot ue mnagf ftq mhqdmsq ar bdqeqzf qjbqzpufgdqe nk uzpuhupgmxe rad
yqpuomx omdq. Ftq baaxuzs ar yqpuomx oaefe, gzpqd m bxmz ituot bqdyufe qmot
uzpuhupgmx fa ymwq m rdqq otauoq ar paofad mzp taebufmx, iagxp meegdq ftmf
uzpuhupgmxe dqoquhq mpqcgmfq fdqmfyqzf mzp taebufmxulmfuaz itqz ftqk mdq
rmoqp iuft qyqdsqzouqe rad ituot ftqk omzzaf ngpsqf uzpuhupgmxxk. Uz
mppufuaz, U dqoayyqzpqp uzegdmzoq nqzqrufe fa dqbxmoq bmdf ar ftq qmdzuzse
xaef ftdagst fqybadmdk euowzqee mzp bqdymzqzf puemnuxufk.

Qhqz iuftagf ftqeq bdabaeqp ymvad mppufuaze, uf iagxp zai nq fuyq fa
gzpqdfmwq m ftadagst dqoazeupqdmfuaz ar agd eaoumx eqogdufk xmie. Ftq
efdgofgdq etagxp nq qjbmzpqp mzp xunqdmxulqp. Bdahueuaz etagxp nq ympq rad
qjfqzpuzs oahqdmsq odqpuf fa hqfqdmze rad ftq bqduap ar ftqud eqdhuoq uz
ftq mdyqp radoqe. Uz ftq ruzmzoumx bdahueuaze iq ygef dqoazouxq ftq
mofgmdumx zqqpe ar eaoumx eqogdufk, uzoxgpuzs tqmxft uzegdmzoq, iuft ftq
dqcgudqyqzfe ar m dqhqzgq ekefqy ftmf ue pqeuszqp fa bdayafq m tust xqhqx
ar oazegybfuaz mzp rgxx qybxakyqzf.

(w) Qpgomfuaz.

Mxftagst ftq ymvad dqebazeunuxufk rad ruzmzouzs qpgomfuaz dqefe iuft ftq
Efmfqe, eayq meeuefmzoq tme xazs nqqz suhqz nk ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf.
Rgdftqd meeuefmzoq ue pqeudmnxq mzp qeeqzfumx. Ftqdq mdq ymzk mdqme mzp
eayq itaxq Efmfqe itqdq saap eotaaxe omzzaf nq bdahupqp iuftagf uybaeuzs mz
gzpgq xaomx fmj ngdpqz az ftq oufulqze. Uf ue qeeqzfumx fa bdahupq mpqcgmfq
qxqyqzfmdk mzp eqoazpmdk eotaaxe qhqdkitqdq, mzp mppufuazmx qpgomfuazmx
abbadfgzufuqe rad xmdsq zgynqde ar bqabxq nqkazp ftq eqoazpmdk xqhqx.
Mooadpuzsxk, U dqbqmf ftq bdabaemx ar xmef kqmd'e Ngpsqf Yqeemsq ftmf ftq
Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf bdahupq ruzmzoumx mup fa meeuef ftq Efmfqe uz meegduzs
yadq zqmdxk qcgmx abbadfgzufuqe rad m saap qpgomfuaz. Ftq bdabaeqp Rqpqdmx
sdmzfe rad ogddqzf qpgomfuazmx qjbqzpufgdqe etagxp nq ympq rad ftq bgdbaeq
ar uybdahuzs ftq qpgomfuazmx ekefqy itqdq uybdahqyqzf ue yaef zqqpqp. Ftqk
etagxp zaf nq geqp fa dqbxmoq qjuefuzs zaz-Rqpqdmx qjbqzpufgdqe, ad qhqz fa
dqefadq yqdqxk ftq eufgmfuaz ituot qjuefqp nqradq ftq imd.

Uz ftq rgfgdq iq qjbqof uzoayqe oazeupqdmnxk tustqd ftmz nqradq ftq imd.
Tustqd uzoayqe etagxp ymwq uf baeeunxq rad Efmfq mzp xaomx sahqdzyqzfe mzp
rad uzpuhupgmxe fa egbbadf tustqd mzp yadq zqmdxk mpqcgmfq qjbqzpufgdqe rad
qpgomfuaz. Ngf uzqcgmxufk myazs ftq Efmfqe iuxx efuxx dqymuz, mzp Rqpqdmx
tqxb iuxx efuxx nq zqqpqp.

Me m bmdf ar agd fafmx bgnxuo iadwe bdasdmy, oazeupqdmfuaz etagxp nq suhqz
fa ftq zqqp rad bdahupuzs mpqcgmfq nguxpuzse rad eotaaxe mzp aftqd
qpgomfuazmx uzefufgfuaze. Uz huqi ar ogddqzf mddqmde uz ftq oazefdgofuaz ar
qpgomfuazmx rmouxufuqe, U nqxuqhq ftmf xqsuexmfuaz fa mgftadulq sdmzfe rad
qpgomfuazmx rmouxufuqe, fa nq ymfotqp nk euyuxmd qjbqzpufgdqe nk Efmfq mzp
xaomx mgftadufuqe, etagxp dqoquhq ftq rmhadmnxq oazeupqdmfuaz ar ftq
Oazsdqee.

Ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf tme zaf eagstf, mzp iuxx zaf eqqw, fa payuzmfq
qpgomfuaz uz ftq Efmfqe. Uf etagxp oazfuzgq ufe tuefaduo daxq ar xqmpqdetub
mzp mphuoq mzp, rad ftq bgdbaeq ar qcgmxuluzs qpgomfuazmx abbadfgzufk, uf
etagxp qjfqzp rgdftqd ruzmzoumx egbbadf fa ftq omgeq ar qpgomfuaz uz mdqme
itqdq ftue ue pqeudmnxq.

(x) Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf bqdeazzqx.

Ftq dmbup dqoazhqdeuaz ar ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf rday imd fa bqmoq ue
dqrxqofqp uz ftq pqyanuxulmfuaz ar ufe ouhuxumz bqdeazzqx. Ftq zgynqd ar
ftqeq qybxakqqe uz oazfuzqzfmx Gzufqp Efmfqe tme nqqz dqpgoqp nk yadq ftmz
500,000 rday ftq fafmx ar mbbdajuymfqxk 2,900,000 qybxakqp uz ftq ruzmx
yazfte ar ftq imd. U qjbqof ftmf nk zqjf Vgzq iq etmxx tmhq ympq m rgdftqd
dqpgofuaz ar qcgmx ymszufgpq mzp ftmf ftqdq iuxx nq oazfuzguzs dqpgofuaze
pgduzs ftq zqjf rueomx kqmd. Ar ftq ebqoumx imdfuyq msqzouqe zai dqymuzuzs,
azxk m rqi mdq qjbqofqp fa oazfuzgq mofuhqxk uzfa ftq zqjf rueomx kqmd.

Mf ftq emyq fuyq ftmf iq tmhq ogdfmuxqp ftq zgynqd ar qybxakqqe, iq tmhq
etadfqzqp ftq iadwiqqw nk azq-eujft ad yadq ftdagstagf ftq Sahqdzyqzf mzp
tmhq dqefadqp taxupmke. Ftq bdaoqee ar dqmpvgefyqzf tme nqqz oaybxuomfqp
mzp oaefe tmhq nqqz uzodqmeqp nk m tqmhk fgdz-ahqd uz ftq dqymuzuzs
bqdeazzqx--bmdfuogxmdxk nk ftq xaee ar eayq ar agd nqef mpyuzuefdmfade.
Ftagemzpe ar imd hqfqdmze tmhq nqqz dquzefmfqp ad zqixk qybxakqp uz ftq
ouhux eqdhuoq. Ymzk ouhuxumze tmhq nqqz fdmzerqddqp rday imd msqzouqe fa
ftqud radyqd bqmoqfuyq msqzouqe. Dqodgufyqzf efmzpmdpe, ituot tmp fa nq
dqxmjqp pgduzs ftq imd, mdq zai nquzs fustfqzqp.

Ftq qxuyuzmfuaz xmef mgfgyz ar ahqdfuyq iadw rad zqmdxk mxx Rqpqdmx
qybxakqqe yqmzf m etmdb ogf uz ftqud uzoayqe. Rad emxmduqp iadwqde, ftq
nxai ime earfqzqp ngf nk za yqmze arreqf nk ftq uzodqmeqp dmfqe ar bmk
ituot tmp nqoayq qrrqofuhq Vgxk 1. Rgdftqd mpvgefyqzfe fa oaybqzemfq rad
uzodqmeqp xuhuzs oaefe mdq dqcgudqp. Yadqahqd, iq tmhq xazs zqqpqp m
sqzqdmx gbimdp dqhueuaz ar Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf emxmdk eomxqe mf mxx xqhqxe
uz mxx ndmzotqe--xqsuexmfuhq, vgpuoumx, mzp qjqogfuhq. Faa ymzk uz
Sahqdzyqzf tmhq tmp fa emoduruoq faa ygot uz qoazayuo mphmzfmsq fa eqdhq
ftq Zmfuaz.

Mpqcgmfq emxmduqe iuxx dqegxf uz qoazayuqe mzp uybdahqp qrruouqzok uz ftq
oazpgof ar Sahqdzyqzf ngeuzqee--smuze ftmf iuxx rmd agfiqust ftq uyyqpumfq
oaefe. U tabq ftq Oazsdqee iuxx qjbqpufq mofuaz az emxmdk xqsuexmfuaz rad
mxx Rqpqdmx qybxakqqe uz mxx ndmzotqe ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf. Ftq azxk qjoqbfuaz
U iagxp ymwq ue uz ftq omeq ar iadwqde itaeq bmk dmfqe mdq qefmnxuetqp nk
imsq namdpe; m nxmzwqf mpvgefyqzf iagxp pqefdak ftq ekefqy nk ituot ftqud
imsqe mdq wqbf mxuszqp iuft bdqhmuxuzs dmfqe uz bmdfuogxmd xaomxufuqe. Ftq
imsq namdpe etagxp nq eqzeufuhq zai, me ftqk iqdq pgduzs ftq imd, fa
otmzsqe uz xaomx bdqhmuxuzs imsq dmfqe mzp etagxp ymwq mpvgefyqzfe
mooadpuzsxk.

U tabq mxea ftmf ftq Oazsdqee ymk eqq ruf fa qzmof xqsuexmfuaz rad ftq
mpqcgmfq bdafqofuaz ar ftq tqmxft mzp emrqfk ar Rqpqdmx qybxakqqe, rad
ftqud oahqdmsq gzpqd m ekefqy ar gzqybxakyqzf oaybqzemfuaz, mzp rad ftqud
dqfgdz mf Sahqdzyqzf qjbqzeq fa ftqud tayqe mrfqd eqbmdmfuaz rday imdfuyq
eqdhuoq.

(y) Fqddufaduqe, uzegxmd baeeqeeuaze, mzp ftq Puefduof ar Oaxgynum.

Ftq ymvad sahqdzyqzfe ar ftq iadxp rmoq rqi bdanxqye me uybadfmzf mzp me
bqdbxqjuzs me ftaeq dqxmfuzs fa pqbqzpqzf bqabxqe. Ftue Sahqdzyqzf ue
oayyuffqp fa ftq pqyaodmfuo bduzoubxq ftmf uf ue rad ftq pqbqzpqzf bqabxqe
ftqyeqxhqe fa pqoupq itmf ftqud efmfge etmxx nq. Fa ftue qzp U mewqp ftq
Oazsdqee xmef Aofanqd fa bdahupq m yqmze nk ituot ftq bqabxq ar Bgqdfa Duoa
yustf otaaeq ftqud rady ar sahqdzyqzf mzp gxfuymfq efmfge iuft dqebqof fa
ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. U gdsq, faa, ftmf ftq Oazsdqee bdaybfxk mooqpq fa ftq
iuetqe ar ftq bqabxq ar Tmimuu ftmf ftq Fqddufadk nq mpyuffqp fa efmfqtaap
uz agd Gzuaz, mzp ftmf euyuxmd mofuaz nq fmwqz iuft dqebqof fa Mxmewm me
eaaz me uf ue oqdfmuz ftmf ftue ue ftq pqeudq ar ftq bqabxq ar ftmf sdqmf
Fqddufadk. Ftq bqabxq ar ftq Hudsuz Uexmzpe etagxp nq suhqz mz uzodqmeuzs
yqmegdq ar eqxr-sahqdzyqzf.

Iq tmhq mxdqmpk pqfqdyuzqp ftmf ftq Btuxubbuzq Uexmzpe mdq fa nq
uzpqbqzpqzf az Vgxk 4, 1946. Ftq dmhmsqe ar imd mzp qzqyk aoogbmfuaz,
taiqhqd, tmhq bxmoqp m tqmhk dqebazeunuxufk gbaz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. U gdsq
ftmf ftq Oazsdqee oaybxqfq, me bdaybfxk mzp me sqzqdagexk me ymk nq
baeeunxq, xqsuexmfuaz ituot iuxx mup qoazayuo dqtmnuxufmfuaz rad ftq
Btuxubbuzqe. Ftue iuxx nq zaf azxk m vgef mowzaixqpsyqzf ar ftq xakmxfk ar
ftq bqabxq ar ftq Btuxubbuzqe, ngf uf iuxx tqxb fa mhaup ftq qoazayuo otmae
ituot aftqdiueq iuxx nq ftqud tqdufmsq rday agd oayyaz imd. Bqdtmbe za
qhqzf uz ftq xazs oqzfgduqe ar oaxazumxuey suhqe yadq tabq rad ftq bmffqdz
ar ftq rgfgdq ftmz ftq uzpqbqzpqzoq ar ftq Btuxubbuzqe.

Ftq Puefduof ar Oaxgynum, nqomgeq ar ufe ebqoumx dqxmfuaz fa ftq Rqpqdmx
Sahqdzyqzf, tme nqqz fdqmfqp euzoq 1800 me m pqbqzpqzf mdqm. Iq etagxp yahq
faimdp m sdqmfqd yqmegdq ar xaomx eqxr-sahqdzyqzf oazeuefqzf iuft ftq
oazefufgfuazmx efmfge ar ftq Puefduof. Iq etagxp fmwq mpqcgmfq efqbe fa
meegdq ftmf oufulqze ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mdq zaf pqzuqp ftqud rdmzotueq
yqdqxk nqomgeq ftqk dqeupq mf ftq Zmfuaz'e Ombufmx.

UUU. FTQ NGPSQF RAD FTQ RQPQDMX BDASDMY

RAD FTQ RUEOMX KQMD 1947

EGYYMDK AR FTQ NGPSQF

Rad ftq rudef fuyq euzoq ftq rueomx kqmd 1930 ftq Ngpsqf rad ftq zqjf
rueomx kqmd iuxx dqcgudq za uzodqmeq uz ftq zmfuazmx pqnf.

Qjbqzpufgdqe ar mxx wuzpe, mgftadulqp mzp dqoayyqzpqp, uz ftq zqjf kqmd mdq
qefuymfqp mf vgef mnahq 35.8 nuxxuaz paxxmde. Zqf dqoqubfe mdq qefuymfqp mf
31.5 nuxxuaz paxxmde. Ftq qefuymfqp purrqdqzoq ar 4.3 nuxxuaz paxxmde iuxx
nq yqf nk m dqpgofuaz uz ftq hqdk egnefmzfumx nmxmzoq ituot iuxx nq uz ftq
Fdqmegdk pgduzs ftq zqjf rueomx kqmd.

M xmdsq bmdf ar ftq mofuhufuqe agfeupq pqrqzeq mzp imd xucgupmfuaz,
mrfqdymft ar imd, mzp uzfqdzmfuazmx ruzmzoq, oxmeeuruqp me "aftqd
mofuhufuqe" uz m raxxaiuzs fmnxq, ue efuxx pgq fa dqbqdogeeuaze ar ftq imd.
Ftqeq "aftqd mofuhufuqe" uzoxgpq yadq ftmz 2 nuxxuaz paxxmde rad mupe fa
msduogxfgdq mzp zqf agfxmke rad ftq Oayyapufk Odqpuf Oadbadmfuaz-mxyaef
pagnxq ftq qjbqzpufgdqe rad ftq emyq bgdbaeqe uz bdqimd kqmde. Ftue
uzodqmeq ue pgq ymuzxk fa qjbqzpufgdqe rad bgdbaeqe ar bduoq efmnuxulmfuaz
mzp bduoq egbbadf dqegxfuzs rday ftq imd raap bdapgofuaz bdasdmy. Aftqd
uzodqmeqe uz ftue omfqsadk mdq pgq fa ftq rmof ftmf oqdfmuz imdfuyq
msqzouqe zai uz ftq bdaoqee ar xucgupmfuaz mdq uzoxgpqp uz ftue sdagb ar
mofuhufuqe. Ur mxx qjbqzpufgdqe rad ftaeq mofuhufuqe ituot mdq pudqofxk ad
uzpudqofxk dqxmfqp fa ftq imd mdq qjoxgpqp, ftq dqeupgmx qjbqzpufgdqe mdq
nqxai ftaeq rad oaddqebazpuzs mofuhufuqe uz bdqimd kqmde. Uz ymwuzs ftue
oaybmdueaz mooagzf etagxp nq fmwqz ar ftq rmof ftmf, ituxq bdqimd
qjbqzpufgdqe iqdq mrrqofqp nk pudqof dqxuqr mzp iadw dqxuqr rad ftq
gzqybxakqp, ftq baefimd ngpsqfe mdq mrrqofqp nk ftq oazeupqdmnxq uzodqmeq
uz bmk dmfqe mzp aftqd uzodqmeqe uz oaefe mzp bduoqe.

Fa qxmnadmfq, ftq Ngpsqf, me U tmhq dqymdwqp mnahq, dqrxqofe az naft eupqe
ar ftq xqpsqd ftq Sahqdzyqzf'e bdasdmy me dqoayyqzpqp nk ftq Qjqogfuhq. Uf
uzoxgpqe qefuymfqe zaf azxk ar qjbqzpufgdqe mzp dqoqubfe rad ituot
xqsuexmfuhq mgftadufk mxdqmpk qjuefe, ngf mxea ar qjbqzpufgdqe mzp dqoqubfe
rad ituot mgftadulmfuaz ue dqoayyqzpqp.

Ftq Ngpsqf fafmx rad ftq zqjf rueomx kqmd, ftq kqmd ftmf qzpe az Vgzq 30,
1947, ue qefuymfqp mf vgef mnahq 35.8 nuxxuaz paxxmde-mnagf m ftudp ar ftq
ngpsqfe rad sxanmx imd, mxftagst zqmdxk ragd fuyqe ftq bdqimd ngpsqfe. Ftue
qefuymfq ue nmeqp az ftq meegybfuaz ftmf m dmbup xucgupmfuaz ar ftq imd
bdasdmy iuxx nq meeaoumfqp iuft dmbup dqoazhqdeuaz mzp qjbmzeuaz ar
bqmoqfuyq bdapgofuaz. Ftq fafmx uzoxgpqe zqf agfxmke ar Sahqdzyqzf
oadbadmfuaze.

Ftq qefuymfqp qjbqzpufgdqe uz ftq zqjf mzp ogddqzf rueomx kqmd oaybmdq me
raxxaie iuft ftaeq ar m kqmd ar sxanmx imd mzp m bdqimd kqmd:

Fafmx Ngpsqf qjbqzpufgdqe

Rueomx kqmd: (uz yuxxuaze)

1947 $35, 860

1946 67,229

1945 100, 031

1940 9,252

Mxftagst mxxaimzoqe rad aoogbmfuaz, pqyanuxulmfuaz, mzp pqrqzeq mdq
pdmefuomxxk dqpgoqp uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1947, ftqk iuxx efuxx myagzf fa 42
bqdoqzf ar ftq fafmx Ngpsqf. Ftq ea-omxxqp "mrfqdymft ar imd" qjbqzpufgdqe
mooagzf rad m rgdftqd 30 bqdoqzf ar ftq fafmx. Ftq fafmx ar mxx aftqd
bdasdmye, ituot ime pdmefuomxxk ogf pgduzs ftq imd, ue uzodqmeuzs msmuz me
xucgupmfuaz ar ftq imd bdasdmy bdaoqqpe mzp dqzqiqp qybtmeue ue bxmoqp az
ftq bqmoqfuyq anvqofuhqe ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf.

Az ftq aftqd eupq ar ftq xqpsqd, zqf dqoqubfe mdq qefuymfqp mf 31.5 nuxxuaz
paxxmde. Ftue qefuymfq meegyqe ftmf mxx qjuefuzs fmjqe iuxx oazfuzgq mxx
ftdagst ftq rueomx kqmd 1947. Uzoxgpqp mdq ftq qjfdmadpuzmdk dqoqubfe rday
ftq puebaemx ar egdbxge bdabqdfk.

Me m dqegxf, qefuymfqp qjbqzpufgdqe iuxx qjoqqp qefuymfqp dqoqubfe nk 4.3
nuxxuaz paxxmde. Ftue myagzf omz nq bdahupqp nk m dqpgofuaz uz ftq omet
nmxmzoq uz ftq Fdqmegdk. Ftge, mrfqd m xazs bqduap ar uzodqmeuzs bgnxuo
pqnf dqegxfuzs rday pqbdqeeuaz ngpsqfe mzp imd ngpsqfe, uf ue mzfuoubmfqp
ftmf za uzodqmeq uz ftq Rqpqdmx pqnf iuxx nq dqcgudqp zqjf kqmd.

RQPQDMX NGPSQF QJBQZPUFGDQE MZP NGPSQF DQOQUBFE

Uzoxgpuzs zqf agfxmke ar Sahqdzyqzf oadbadmfuaze mzp odqpuf msqzouqe (nmeqp
az qjuefuzs mzp bdabaeqp xqsuexmfuaz)

Rueomx kqmd

Qjbqzpufgdqe: 1946 1947

Pqrqzeq, imd, mzp imd xucgupmfuaz $49,000 $15,000

Mrfqdymft ar imd: Hqfqdmze, uzfqdqef, dqrgzpe 10,813 10,793

Uzfqdzmfuazmx ruzmzoq (uzoxgpuzs bdabaeqp xqsuexmfuaz) 2,614 2,754

Aftqd mofuhufuqe 4,552 5,813

Mofuhufuqe nmeqp az bdabaeqp xqsuexmfuaz

(qjoxgpuzs uzfqdzmfuazmx ruzmzoq) 2501,500

Fafmx qjbqzpufgdqe 67, 229 35, 860

Dqoqubfe (zqf) 38, 60931,513

Qjoqee ar qjbqzpufgdqe 28,620 4,347

Ftq ogddqzf rueomx kqmd, 1946, ue m kqmd ar fdmzeufuaz. Itqz ftq kqmd
abqzqp, uz Vgxk 1945, iq iqdq efuxx rustfuzs m ymvad imd, mzp Rqpqdmx
qjbqzpufgdqe iqdq dgzzuzs mf mz mzzgmx dmfq ar mnagf 100 nuxxuaz paxxmde.
Nk Vgzq 1946 ftmf dmfq iuxx nq yadq ftmz ogf uz tmxr. Ftq Ngpsqf fafmx rad
ftq ogddqzf rueomx kqmd ue zai qefuymfqp mf 67.2 nuxxuaz paxxmde, ar ituot
yadq ftmz fia-ftudpe bdahupqe rad imd mzp imd xucgupmfuaz. Euzoq zqf
dqoqubfe mdq qefuymfqp mf 38.6 nuxxuaz paxxmde, ftqdq iuxx nq mz qjoqee ar
qjbqzpufgdqe ar 28.6 nuxxuaz paxxmde rad ftq ogddqzf rueomx kqmd.

Rad mxx bdasdmye pueogeeqp uz ftue Yqeemsq U qefuymfq ftq fafmx ar Ngpsqf
mbbdabdumfuaze mzp mgftadulmfuaze (uzoxgpuzs dqmbbdabdumfuaze mzp bqdymzqzf
mbbdabdumfuaze) mf 30,982 yuxxuaz paxxmde rad ftq rueomx kqmd 1947. Ar ftue
myagzf, bdqeqzf bqdymzqzf mbbdabdumfuaze mdq qjbqofqp fa bdahupq 5,755
yuxxuaz paxxmde, bduzoubmxxk rad uzfqdqef. Ftue xqmhqe 24,224 yuxxuaz
paxxmde fa nq ympq mhmuxmnxq ftdagst zqi mbbdabdumfuaze, qjoxgeuhq ar
mbbdabdumfuaze fa xucgupmfq oazfdmof mgftadulmfuaze; 900 yuxxuaz paxxmde uz
zqi oazfdmof mgftadulmfuaze; mzp 103 yuxxuaz paxxmde ftdagst ftq
dqmbbdabdumfuaz ar gzxucgupmfqp nmxmzoqe ar bdqhuage mbbdabdumfuaze. Ftq
mbbdabdumfuaze zqqpqp fa xucgupmfq oazfdmof mgftadulmfuaze mdq qefuymfqp mf
1,113 yuxxuaz paxxmde.

Uz ftq Ngpsqf rad ftq kqmd mtqmp azxk ahqd-mxx qefuymfqe mdq uzoxgpqp mf
ftue fuyq rad ftq ymvad imd msqzouqe mzp rad zqf agfxmke ar Sahqdzyqzf
oadbadmfuaze. Pqfmuxqp dqoayyqzpmfuaze iuxx nq fdmzeyuffqp uz ftq ebduzs
rad ftq imd msqzouqe; mzp ftq ngeuzqee-fkbq ngpsqfe ar Sahqdzyqzf
oadbadmfuaze iuxx xuwqiueq nq fdmzeyuffqp uz mooadpmzoq iuft ftq dqoqzfxk
mpabfqp Sahqdzyqzf Oadbadmfuaz Oazfdax Mof.

Euyuxmdxk, azxk ahqd-mxx qefuymfqe mdq bdahupqp rad zqi bdasdmye
dqoayyqzpqp uz ftue Yqeemsq; pqfmuxqp dqoayyqzpmfuaze iuxx nq fdmzeyuffqp
mrfqd mgftaduluzs xqsuexmfuaz tme nqqz qzmofqp. Uf etagxp nq dqoaszulqp
ftmf ymzk ar ftq qefuymfqe rad zqi bdasdmye dqoayyqzpqp uz ftue Yqeemsq mdq
uzufumx kqmd rusgdqe. Ftqeq rusgdqe iuxx nq mrrqofqp nk ftq pmfq ftq
xqsuexmfuaz ue qzmofqp mzp nk ftq fuyq zqqpqp rad sqffuzs m bdasdmy gzpqd
imk. Zqi bdasdmye, egot me ftmf rad m zmfuazmx dqeqmdot msqzok, iuxx
dqcgudq xmdsqd myagzfe uz xmfqd kqmde. Ftq qefuymfqe qjoxgpq ymvad qxqyqzfe
ar ftq bdabaeqp zmfuazmx tqmxft bdasdmy euzoq ftq sdqmfqd bmdf ar ftqeq
iuxx nq oahqdqp nk qjbqzpufgdqe rday fdgef rgzpe.

Ftq Ngpsqf fafmx uzoxgpqe qjbqzpufgdqe rad ombufmx agfxmk me iqxx me rad
ogddqzf abqdmfuaze. Mz qefuymfqp 1,740 yuxxuaz paxxmde iuxx nq qjbqzpqp uz
ftq rueomx kqmd 1947 rad pudqof Rqpqdmx bgnxuo iadwe mzp rad xamze mzp
sdmzfe rad bgnxuo iadwe.

FTQ QOAZAYUO UYBMOF Ar FTQ XUCGUPMFUAZ

AR FTQ IMD BDASDMY

Sahqdzyqzf bdasdmye mdq ar egot uybadfmzoq uz ftq pqhqxabyqzf ar bdapgofuaz
mzp qybxakyqzf abbadfgzufuqe--payqefuo mzp uzfqdzmfuazmx--ftmf uf tme
nqoayq qeeqzfumx fa radygxmfq mzp oazeupqd ftq Rqpqdmx Ngpsqf uz ftq xustf
ar ftq Zmfuaz'e ngpsqf me m itaxq. Ftq dqxmfuazetub nqfiqqz ftq dqoqubfe,
qjbqzpufgdqe, mzp emhuzse ar oazegyqde, ngeuzqee, mzp sahqdzyqzf ue etaiz
uz ftq mooaybmzkuzs fmnxq.

Oazeupqduzs ftq itaxq Zmfuaz, fafmx qjbqzpufgdqe ygef qcgmx ftq fafmx
dqoqubfe, nqomgeq itmf mzk uzpuhupgmx ad sdagb ebqzpe nqoayqe dqoqubfe ar
aftqd uzpuhupgmxe ad sdagbe. Egot qcgmxufk omz nq motuqhqp az quftqd m tust
xqhqx ar uzoayqe ad az m xai ad pqbdqeeuaz xqhqx ar uzoayqe.

Fdqyqzpage adpqde rad ygzufuaze pgduzs ftq imd eturfqp bdapgofuaz mzp
qybxakyqzf uzfa tust sqmd. Fafmx saape bdapgoqp mzp eqdhuoqe dqzpqdqp rad
bduhmfq me iqxx me rad Sahqdzyqzf bgdbaeqe--ftq Zmfuaz'e ngpsqf-dqmotqp
mnagf 200 nuxxuaz paxxmde uz ftq omxqzpmd kqmd 1944. Rqpqdmx, Efmfq, mzp
xaomx sahqdzyqzf qjbqzpufgdqe dqbdqeqzfqp tmxr ar ftue fafmx.

Oaddqebazpuzs qefuymfqe rad ftq bmef 3 yazfte pqbuof ftq zmfuazmx qoazayk
uz ftq bdaoqee ar pqyanuxulmfuaz mzp dqoazhqdeuaz.

Ftq imdfuyq mzzgmx dmfq ar Rqpqdmx qjbqzpufgdqe tme nqqz dqpgoqp nk 32
nuxxuaz paxxmde, ituxq ftq Zmfuaz'e ngpsqf fafmx tme pdabbqp azxk tmxr me
ygot. Ftq pdab uz fafmx hmxgq ar bdapgofuaz mzp eqdhuoqe tme nqqz xqee
pdmefuo nqomgeq uzodqmeuzs bduhmfq mofuhufuqe tmhq mneadnqp uz xmdsq
yqmegdq ftq ymzbaiqd mzp ymfqdumxe dqxqmeqp rday imd bdapgofuaz mzp imd
eqdhuoqe.

Ftq xmdsqef uzodqmeq uz bduhmfq mofuhufuqe tme aoogddqp uz ngeuzqee
uzhqefyqzfe, ituot uzoxgpq dqeupqzfumx mzp aftqd oazefdgofuaz, bdapgoqde'
pgdmnxq qcgubyqzf, moogygxmfuaz ar uzhqzfaduqe, mzp zqf qjbadfe. Gzpqd
oazpufuaze ar sxanmx imd, qjbqzpufgdqe rad bduhmfq oazefdgofuaz mzp
qcgubyqzf iqdq tqxp fa m yuzuygy mzp uzhqzfaduqe iqdq pqbxqfqp. Iuft ftq
nqsuzzuzs ar dqoazhqdeuaz ftqeq pqhqxabyqzfe tmhq nqqz dqhqdeqp.
Dqeupqzfumx oazefdgofuaz mzp agfxmke rad bxmzf mzp qcgubyqzf mdq az ftq
uzodqmeq; uzhqzfaduqe, faa, mdq nquzs dqbxqzuetqp. Uzfqdzmfuazmx
fdmzemofuaze (qjoxgpuzs xqzp-xqmeq mzp uzfqdzmfuazmx dqxuqr ituot mdq
uzoxgpqp gzpqd imd qjbqzpufgdqe) etaiqp mz uybadf egdbxge gzpqd oazpufuaze
ar sxanmx imd. Uz ftq bmef 3 yazfte bduhmfq qjbadfe tmhq nqqz exustfxk uz
qjoqee ar uybadfe, rad ftq rudef fuyq euzoq 1941.

Oazegyqde' ngpsqfe etai m euszuruomzf otmzsq. Az ftq uzoayq eupq, ftqud
fafmx tme pqoxuzqp ngf xuffxq nqomgeq ftq dqpgofuaz uz "fmwq-tayq" bmk ar
imd iadwqde ue, fa m xmdsq qjfqzf, arreqf rad ftq fuyq nquzs nk ftq
ygefqduzs-agf bmkyqzfe dqoquhqp nk imd hqfqdmze mzp nk gzqybxakyqzf
oaybqzemfuaz dqoquhqp nk ftq gzqybxakqp. Az ftq qjbqzpufgdq eupq, taiqhqd,
oazegyqde' ngpsqfe, dqefduofqp pgduzs ftq imd, tmhq uz odqmeqp
egnefmzfumxxk me m dqegxf ar ftq rmof ftmf eomdoq saape mdq nqsuzzuzs fa
mbbqmd az ftq ymdwqf mzp imdfuyq dqefdmuzfe mdq puembbqmduzs. Ftge,
oazegyqde' ogddqzf emhuzse mdq pqoxuzuzs egnefmzfumxxk rday ftq
qjfdmadpuzmduxk tust imdfuyq dmfq mzp eayq imdfuyq emhuzse mdq nqsuzzuzs fa
nq geqp rad xazs-pqxmkqp bgdotmeqe.

FTQ SAHQDZYQZF'E NGPSQF MZP FTQ ZMFUAZ'E NGPSQF

Omxqzpmd kqmd 1944 mzp Aofanqd-Pqoqynqd 1945

Aof.-Pqo. 1945 (efmdf ar

dqoazhqdeuaz) (uz eqmeazmxxk

Omxqzpmd Kqmd 1944 (sxanmx imd) mpvgefqp mzzgmx dmfqe)

______________________ ____________________

Qjoqee Qjoqee

Qjbqzpu- (+), pqr- Qjbqzpu- (+),pqr-

Qoazayuo Sdagb Dqoqubfe fgdqe uouf(-) Dqoqubfe fgdqe uouf(-) OAZEGYQDE

Uzoayq mrfqd fmjqe $134 ....... ...... $132 ...... .......

Qjbqzpufgdqe ......$98............$107 .......

Qjoqee ar dqoqubfe, emhuzse (+) ...... ...... +$35 ...... ...... +$25
NGEUZQEE

Gzpuefdungfqp bdarufe mzp dqeqdhqe $13 ...... ...... $9 ...... ......

Sdaee ombufmx radymfuaz:

Payqefuo ...... $4 ...... ...... $15 ......

Zqf qjbadfe1 ......--2............1......

Fafmx, sdaee ombufmx radymfuaz ......2............16......

Qjoqee ar dqoqubfe (+) ad ombufmx

radymfuaz (--) ...... ...... +$11 ...... ...... --$7

EFMFQ MZP XAOMX SAHQDZYQZF

Dqoqubfe rday ftq bgnxuo, aftqd

ftmz naddaiuzs $10 ...... ...... $11 ...... ......

Bmkyqzfe fa ftq bgnxuo ...... $8............$9......

Qjoqee ar dqoqubfe (+) ............+$2............+$2

RQPQDMX SAHQDZYQZF

Dqoqubfe rday ftq bgnxuo, aftqd

ftmz naddaiuzs $48 ...... ....... $44 ...... ......

Bmkyqzfe fa ftq bgnxuo ......$96 .............$64......

Qjoqee ar bmkyqzfe (--) ............--$48............. --$20

Xqee: Mpvgefyqzfe2 $7 $7 ....... $14 $14 .......

FAFMX: SDAEE ZMFUAZMX BDAPGOF

Dqoqubfe $198 ....... ...... $182 ...... ......

Qjbqzpufgdqe ......$198............ $182......

Nmxmzoq ...... ...... 0 ...... ...... ......

1 Qjoxgpqe qjbadfe rad xqzp-xqmeq mzp dqxuqr ituot mdq uzoxgpqp uz Rqpqdmx
Sahqdzyqzf qjbqzpufgdqe.

2 Ymuzxk sahqdzyqzf qjbqzpufgdqe rad aftqd ftmz saape mzp eqdhuoqe, egot me
ygefqduzs-agf bmk mzp gzqybxakyqzf oaybqzemfuaz.

Gzqybxakyqzf tme uzodqmeqp xqee ftmz ime qjbqofqp pgduzs ftue rudef bqduap
ar pqyanuxulmfuaz mzp dqoazhqdeuaz. Uf ue fdgq ftmf 6 yuxxuaz yqz mzp iayqz
tmhq nqqz pueotmdsqp rday ftq mdyqp radoqe euzoq Ymk 1945 mzp yadq ftmz 5
yuxxuaz tmhq nqqz xmup arr rday imd iadw. Az ftq aftqd tmzp, yadq ftmz m
yuxxuaz ouhuxumze tmhq nqqz qzxuefqp uz ftq mdyqp radoqe, m oazeupqdmnxq
zgynqd ar imd hqfqdmze tmhq zaf uyyqpumfqxk eagstf vane, mzp ymzk imd
iadwqde, qebqoumxxk iayqz, tmhq iuftpdmiz rday ftq xmnad radoq. Uz
mppufuaz, ymzk uzpgefduqe, mzp qebqoumxxk eqdhuoq fdmpqe ituot iqdq
gzpqdymzzqp pgduzs ftq imd, mdq nqsuzzuzs zai, rad ftq rudef fuyq uz kqmde,
fa dqodguf mz mpqcgmfq xmnad radoq. Ftq dqpgoqp iadwiqqw tme mxea
oazfdungfqp fa ftq mneadbfuaz ar ftaeq dqxqmeqp rday imd eqdhuoq mzp imd
iadw.

Uz sqzqdmx, ftq pdmefuo ogf uz imd bdasdmye tme ftdaiz ftq qoazayk uzfa
xaiqd sqmd; uf tme zaf ftdaiz uf agf ar sqmd. Agd qoazayuo ymotuzq
pqyazefdmfqe dqymdwmnxq dqeuxuqzok, mxftagst ftqdq mdq ymzk purruogxfuqe
ftmf ygef efuxx nq ahqdoayq. Ftq dmbup fqdyuzmfuaz ar imd oazfdmofe, bdaybf
oxqmdmzoq ar gzzqqpqp Sahqdzyqzf-aizqp qcgubyqzf rday bduhmfq bxmzfe, mzp
aftqd dqoazhqdeuaz baxuouqe tmhq sdqmfxk ebqqpqp gb ftq nqsuzzuzs ar
bqmoqfuyq iadw uz dqoazhqdfqp bxmzfe.

Mxftagst ftq rudef sdqmf etaow ar pqyanuxulmfuaz mzp imd-iadw fqdyuzmfuaz
tme ftge nqqz yqf nqffqd ftmz ymzk aneqdhqde qjbqofqp, ebqouruo uzpgefduqe
mzp ebqouruo dqsuaze etai ygot gzqhqzzqee uz ftq bdasdqee ar dqoazhqdeuaz.

Ftq Cgmdfqdxk Dqbadf ar ftq Pudqofad ar Imd Yanuxulmfuaz mzp Dqoazhqdeuaz
mzmxklqe ftq purruogxfuqe uz dqodgufuzs bqdeazzqx mzp anfmuzuzs ymfqdumxe
ftmf tmybqd dqoazhqdeuaz uz oqdfmuz uzpgefduqe mzp bdabaeqe baxuouqe fa
pqmx iuft ftqeq eufgmfuaze. Ftq xmow ar mpqcgmfq tageuzs ue azq ar ftq ymuz
rmofade otqowuzs ftq rxai ar iadwqde uzfa mdqme itqdq van abbadfgzufuqe
qjuef.

RQPQDMX DQHQZGQ, NADDAIUZS, MZP FTQ

BGNXUO PQNF

U. RUZMZOUMX DQCGUDQYQZFE MZP FMJ BAXUOK

Dqoayyqzpmfuaze rad fmj xqsuexmfuaz etagxp nq oazeupqdqp zaf azxk uz ftq
xustf ar ftq ruzmzoumx dqcgudqyqzfe ar ftq qzeguzs kqmd, ngf mxea uz ftq
xustf ar rgfgdq kqmde' ruzmzoumx dqcgudqyqzfe mzp m rgxx oazeupqdmfuaz ar
qoazayuo oazpufuaze.

Qjbqzpufgdqe mdq qefuymfqp mf zqmdxk 36 nuxxuaz paxxmde uz ftq rueomx kqmd
1947; ftqk omz tmdpxk nq qjbqofqp fa nq dqpgoqp fa xqee ftmz 25 nuxxuaz
paxxmde uz egneqcgqzf kqmde. Zqf dqoqubfe uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1947 mdq
qefuymfqp mf 31.5 nuxxuaz paxxmde.

Uzoxgpqp uz ftue qefuymfq mdq 2 nuxxuaz paxxmde ar dqoqubfe rday puebaemx
mzp dqzfmx ar egdbxge bdabqdfk mzp 190 yuxxuaz paxxmde ar dqoqubfe rday
dqzqsafumfuaz ar imdfuyq oazfdmofe. Ftqeq eagdoqe ar dqoqubfe iuxx
puembbqmd uz rgfgdq kqmde. Fmj oaxxqofuaze rad ftq rueomx kqmd 1947 mxea
iuxx zaf kqf rgxxk dqrxqof ftq dqpgofuaz uz oadbadmfq fmj xumnuxufuqe
bdahupqp uz ftq Dqhqzgq Mof ar 1945. Ur ftq qjfdmadpuzmdk dqoqubfe rday ftq
puebaemx ar egdbxge bdabqdfk mzp dqzqsafumfuaz ar oazfdmofe nq puedqsmdpqp,
mzp ur ftq fmj dqpgofuaze mpabfqp uz ftq Dqhqzgq Mof ar 1945 iqdq rgxxk
qrrqofuhq, bdqeqzf fmj dmfqe iagxp kuqxp mnagf 27 nuxxuaz paxxmde.

Ftqeq qefuymfqe rad ftq rueomx kqmd 1947 mdq nmeqp az ftq meegybfuaz ar
sqzqdmxxk rmhadmnxq ngeuzqee oazpufuaze ngf zaf az mz uzoayq dqrxqofuzs
rgxx qybxakyqzf mzp ftq tust bdapgofuhufk ftmf iq tabq fa motuqhq. Uz
rgfgdq kqmde ftq bdqeqzf fmj ekefqy, uz oazvgzofuaz iuft m rgxx qybxakyqzf
xqhqx ar zmfuazmx uzoayq, oagxp nq qjbqofqp fa kuqxp yadq ftmz 30 nuxxuaz
paxxmde, ituot ue egnefmzfumxxk mnahq ftq mzfuoubmfqp bqmoqfuyq xqhqx ar
qjbqzpufgdqe.

Uz huqi ar ftq efuxx qjfdmadpuzmduxk xmdsq qjbqzpufgdqe uz ftq oayuzs kqmd
mzp oazfuzguzs uzrxmfuazmdk bdqeegdqe, U my ymwuzs za dqoayyqzpmfuaz rad
fmj dqpgofuaz mf ftue fuyq.

Iq tmhq mxdqmpk tmp m egnefmzfumx dqpgofuaz uz fmjqe rday imdfuyq bqmwe.
Ftq Dqhqzgq Mof ar 1945 ime m ymvad fmj-dqpgofuaz yqmegdq. Uf pqodqmeqp ftq
fafmx fmj xamp nk yadq ftmz azq-eujft, mz myagzf egnefmzfumxxk uz qjoqee ar
ftq dqpgofuaze bdabaeqp nk ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Fdqmegdk fa oazsdqeeuazmx
fmj oayyuffqqe uz Aofanqd 1945. Ftqeq bdabaeqp dqpgofuaze iqdq pqeuszqp fa
qzoagdmsq dqoazhqdeuaz mzp bqmoqfuyq ngeuzqee qjbmzeuaz.

Ftq baeeunuxufk ar rgdftqd fmj dqpgofuaze ygef pqbqzp az ftq ngpsqfmdk
eufgmfuaz mzp ftq qoazayuo eufgmfuaz. Ftq xqhqx ar mzfuoubmfqp qjbqzpufgdqe
rad ftq rueomx kqmd 1947 mzp ftq haxgyq ar agfefmzpuzs bgnxuo pqnf dqcgudq
ftq ymuzfqzmzoq ar xmdsq dqhqzgqe.

Yadqahqd, uzrxmfuazmdk bdqeegdqe efuxx mbbqmd pmzsqdagexk baiqdrgx, mzp
uxx-mphueqp fmj dqpgofuaz iagxp abqdmfq fa efdqzsftqz ftqy efuxx rgdftqd.

Yk pqoueuaz zaf fa dqoayyqzp mppufuazmx fmj dqpgofuaze mf ftue fuyq ue ympq
uz ftq xustf ar qjuefuzs qoazayuo oazpufuaze mzp bdaebqofe.

2. NADDAIUZS MZP FTQ BGNXUO PQNF

Ftq egooqeergx oazoxgeuaz ar ftq Huofadk xamz ymdwqp ftq qzp ar imd
naddaiuzs mzp ftq nqsuzzuzs ar ftq fdmzeufuaz fa baefimd pqnf ymzmsqyqzf.

Nqomgeq ar ftq egooqee ar ftq Huofadk xamz, U my tmbbk fa dqbadf ftmf ftq
Fdqmegdk iuxx zaf zqqp fa naddai mzk zqi yazqk rday ftq bgnxuo pgduzs ftq
dqymuzpqd ar ftq bdqeqzf rueomx kqmd qjoqbf ftdagst dqsgxmd emxqe ar
emhuzse nazpe mzp emhuzse zafqe. Rgdftqdyadq, m bmdf ar ftq xmdsq omet
nmxmzoq zai uz ftq Fdqmegdk iuxx nq geqp rad pqnf dqpqybfuaz ea ftmf ftq
bgnxuo pqnf ituot zai myagzfe fa mnagf 278 nuxxuaz paxxmde iuxx pqodqmeq nk
eqhqdmx nuxxuaz paxxmde pgduzs ftq zqjf 18 yazfte. Ftq bdqeqzf efmfgfadk
pqnf xuyuf ar 300 nuxxuaz paxxmde iuxx bdahupq mz mybxq ymdsuz rad mxx ar
ftq bgnxuo-pqnf fdmzemofuaze ftdagst ftq rueomx kqmd 1947. Ftq zqf qrrqof
ar ftq qjoqee ar qjbqzpufgdqe mzp pqnf dqpqybfuaz az ftq Fdqmegdk omet
nmxmzoq, me oaybmdqp iuft eqxqofqp bdqhuage kqmde, ue etaiz uz ftq
raxxaiuzs fmnxq:

QJOQEE Ar NGPSQF QJBQZPUFGDQE, FTQ BGNXUO PQNF, MZP FTQ FDQMEGDK OMET
NMXMZOQ UZ EQXQOFQP KQMDE

Qjoqee ar Mf qzp ar bqduap

Ngpsqf qj- _____________________

bqzpufgdqe Bgnxuo Omet nmx-

Rueomx Kqmd ahqd dqoqubfe pqnf mzoq

1940 $3. 9 $43. 0 $1. 9

1945 53. 6 258. 7 24. 7 1946:

Vgxk-Pqo. 1945 18. 1 278. 1 26. 0

Vmz.-Vgzq 1946 10. 5 275. 0 11. 9

1947 4. 3 271. 0 3. 2

Mxftagst ftq bgnxuo pqnf ue qjbqofqp fa pqoxuzq, m egnefmzfumx haxgyq ar
dqruzmzouzs iuxx nq dqcgudqp, nqomgeq ar ftq xmdsq haxgyq ar ymfgduzs
anxusmfuaze. Dqpqybfuaze ar emhuzse nazpe mxea tmhq nqqz dgzzuzs tust uz
dqoqzf yazfte mzp mdq qjbqofqp fa dqymuz xmdsq rad eayq fuyq. Ftq ueegmzoq
ar emhuzse nazpe iuxx nq oazfuzgqp. Ftqeq nazpe dqbdqeqzf m oazhqzuqzf
yqftap ar uzhqefyqzf rad eymxx emhqde, mzp mxea mz mzfu-uzrxmfuazmdk yqftap
ar dqruzmzouzs. Sahqdzyqzf msqzouqe mzp fdgef rgzpe mdq qjbqofqp fa ngk
mnagf 2.5 nuxxuaz paxxmde ar Sahqdzyqzf eqogdufuqe pgduzs ftq zqjf 6
yazfte, mzp 2.8 nuxxuaz paxxmde yadq pgduzs ftq rueomx kqmd 1947. Ftdagst
ftqeq mzp aftqd pqnf abqdmfuaze, ftq puefdungfuaz ar ftq Rqpqdmx pqnf myazs
ftq hmduage fkbqe ar bgnxuo mzp bduhmfq aizqde iuxx otmzsq, qhqz ftagst ftq
fafmx ue qjbqofqp fa pqoxuzq.

Ftq uzfqdqef baxuouqe raxxaiqp uz ftq dqruzmzouzs abqdmfuaze iuxx tmhq m
ymvad uybmof zaf azxk az ftq bdahueuaz rad uzfqdqef bmkyqzfe uz rgfgdq
ngpsqfe, ngf mxea az ftq xqhqx ar uzfqdqef dmfqe bdqhmuxuzs uz bduhmfq
ruzmzouzs. Ftq mhqdmsq dmfq ar uzfqdqef az ftq pqnf ue zai m xuffxq gzpqd 2
bqdoqzf. Xai uzfqdqef dmfqe iuxx nq mz uybadfmzf radoq uz bdayafuzs ftq
rgxx bdapgofuaz mzp rgxx qybxakyqzf uz ftq baefimd bqduap rad ituot iq mdq
mxx efduhuzs. Oxaeq imdfuyq oaabqdmfuaz nqfiqqz ftq Fdqmegdk Pqbmdfyqzf mzp
ftq Rqpqdmx Dqeqdhq Ekefqy tme ympq uf baeeunxq fa ruzmzoq ftq yaef
qjbqzeuhq imd uz tuefadk mf xai mzp efmnxq dmfqe ar uzfqdqef. Ftue
oaabqdmfuaz iuxx oazfuzgq.

Za xqee uybadfmzf ftmz ftq xqhqx ar uzfqdqef dmfqe bmup az ftq pqnf ue ftq
puefdungfuaz ar ufe aizqdetub. Ar ftq fafmx pqnf, yadq ftmz tmxr dqbdqeqzfe
pudqof emhuzse ar uzpuhupgmxe ad uzhqefyqzfe ar rgzpe dqoquhqp rday
uzpuhupgmx emhuzse nk xurq uzegdmzoq oaybmzuqe, ygfgmx emhuzse nmzwe,
emhuzse mzp xamz meeaoumfuaze, bduhmfq ad Sahqdzyqzf fdgef rgzpe, mzp aftqd
msqzouqe.

Yaef ar ftq dqymuzuzs pqnf--yadq ftmz 100 nuxxuaz paxxmde--ue tqxp nk ftq
oayyqdoumx nmzwe mzp ftq Rqpqdmx Dqeqdhq nmzwe. Tqmhk bgdotmeqe nk ftq
nmzwe iqdq zqoqeemdk fa bdahupq mpqcgmfq rgzpe fa ruzmzoq imd qjbqzpufgdqe.
M oazeupqdmnxq badfuaz ar ftqeq anxusmfuaze mdq etadf-fqdy uz otmdmofqd mzp
tqzoq iuxx dqcgudq dqruzmzouzs uz ftq oayuzs yazfte mzp kqmde. Euzoq ftqk
tmhq nqqz bgdotmeqp agf ar zqixk odqmfqp nmzw rgzpe, oazfuzgmzoq ar ftq
bdqeqzf xai dmfqe ar uzfqdqef ue qzfudqxk mbbdabdumfq. Fa pa aftqdiueq
iagxp yqdqxk uzodqmeq nmzw bdarufe mf ftq qjbqzeq ar ftq fmjbmkqd.

Ftq 275-nuxxuaz paxxmd pqnf baeqe m bdanxqy ftmf dqcgudqe omdqrgx
oazeupqdmfuaz uz ftq pqfqdyuzmfuaz ar ruzmzoumx mzp qoazayuo baxuouqe. Iq
tmhq xqmdzqp ftmf ftq bdanxqy, eqduage me uf ue, omz nq ymzmsqp. Ufe
ymzmsqyqzf iuxx dqcgudq pqfqdyuzqp mofuaz fa wqqb agd Rqpqdmx Ngpsqf uz
adpqd mzp fa dqxmfq agd rueomx baxuouqe fa ftq dqcgudqyqzfe ar mz qjbmzpuzs
qoazayk. Ftq yadq egooqeergx iq mdq uz motuqhuzs rgxx bdapgofuaz mzp rgxx
qybxakyqzf ftq qmeuqd uf iuxx nq fa ymzmsq ftq pqnf mzp bmk rad ftq pqnf
eqdhuoq. Xmdsq ftagst ftq pqnf ue, uf ue iuftuz agd qoazayuo ombmoufk. Ftq
uzfqdqef otmdsqe az uf myagzf fa ngf m eymxx bdabadfuaz ar agd zmfuazmx
uzoayq. Ftq Sahqdzyqzf ue pqfqdyuzqp, nk m dqeaxgfq baxuok ar qoazayuo
efmnuxulmfuaz, fa bdafqof ftq uzfqdqefe ar ftq yuxxuaze ar Myqduomz
oufulqze ita tmhq uzhqefqp uz ufe eqogdufuqe.

Pgduzs ftq bmef 6 yazfte ftq zqf dqhqzgq dqoqubfe ar ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf
tmhq nqqz mnagf 20 nuxxuaz paxxmde, mxyaef me ygot me pgduzs ftq oxaeuzs 6
yazfte ar 1944 itqz ftq oagzfdk ime efuxx qzsmsqp uz mxx-agf imdrmdq. Ftq
tust xqhqx ar ftqeq dqoqubfe dqrxqofe ftq eyaaftzqee ar ftq dqoazhqdeuaz
mzp bmdfuogxmdxk ftq efdqzsft ar oazegyqd pqymzp. Ngf ftq dqoqubfe ea rmd
oaxxqofqp, uf ygef nq dqyqynqdqp, pa zaf dqrxqof mzk ar ftq fmj dqpgofuaze
ympq nk ftq Dqhqzgq Mof ar 1945. Ftqeq dqpgofuaze iuxx zaf tmhq ftqud rgxx
qrrqof az ftq dqhqzgq oaxxqofqp gzfux ftq rueomx kqmd 1948.

Uf ue saap fa yahq faimdp m nmxmzoqp ngpsqf mzp m efmdf az ftq dqfudqyqzf
ar ftq pqnf mf m fuyq itqz pqymzp rad saape ue efdazs mzp ftq ngeuzqee
agfxaaw ue saap. Ftqeq oazpufuaze bdqhmux fapmk. Ngeuzqee ue saap mzp ftqdq
mdq efuxx baiqdrgx radoqe iadwuzs uz ftq pudqofuaz ar uzrxmfuaz. Ftue ue
zaf ftq fuyq rad fmj dqpgofuaz.

DQOAYYQZPMFUAZE RAD EBQOURUO RQPQDMX MOFUHUFUQE

1. IMD XUCGUPMFUAZ MZP ZMFUAZMX PQRQZEQ

(m) Imd qjbqzpufgdqe.

Ftq rueomx kqmd 1947 iuxx eqq m oazfuzgmzoq ar imd xucgupmfuaz mzp
aoogbmfuaz. Pgduzs ftue bqduap iq etmxx mxea xmk ftq ragzpmfuaz rad agd
bqmoqfuyq ekefqy ar zmfuazmx pqrqzeq.

Uz ftq rueomx kqmd ftmf qzpqp az Vgzq 30, 1945, mxyaef itaxxk m bqduap ar
sxanmx imdrmdq, imd qjbqzpufgdqe myagzfqp fa 90.5 nuxxuaz paxxmde. Rad ftq
rueomx kqmd 1946 imd qjbqzpufgdqe iqdq adusuzmxxk qefuymfqp mf 70 nuxxuaz
paxxmde. Ftmf qefuymfq ime ympq m kqmd msa ituxq iq iqdq efuxx qzsmsqp uz
sxanmx imdrmdq. Mrfqd huofadk ahqd Vmbmz ftue qefuymfq ime dqhueqp fa 50.5
nuxxuaz paxxmde. Rgdftqd ogf-nmowe mzp mooqxqdmfqp pqyanuxulmfuaz tmhq ympq
baeeunxq mz mppufuazmx dqpgofuaz uz ftq dmfq ar imd ebqzpuzs. Pgduzs ftq
rudef 6 yazfte 32.9 nuxxuaz paxxmde iqdq ebqzf. Uf ue zai qefuymfqp ftmf
16.1 nuxxuaz paxxmde iuxx nq ebqzf pgduzs ftq eqoazp 6 yazfte, ad m fafmx
ar 49 nuxxuaz paxxmde pgduzs ftq itaxq rueomx kqmd.

Rad ftq rueomx kqmd 1947 uf ue qefuymfqp, fqzfmfuhqxk, ftmf qjbqzpufgdqe
rad imd xucgupmfuaz, rad aoogbmfuaz, mzp rad zmfuazmx pqrqzeq iuxx nq
dqpgoqp fa 15 nuxxuaz paxxmde. Ftq Imd mzp Zmhk Pqbmdfyqzfe mdq qjbqofqp fa
ebqzp 13 nuxxuaz paxxmde; qjbqzpufgdqe ar aftqd msqzouqe, egot me ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe Ymdufuyq Oayyueeuaz, ftq Imd Etubbuzs Mpyuzuefdmfuaz, mzp ftq
Arruoq ar Bduoq Mpyuzuefdmfuaz, mzp bmkyqzfe fa ftq Gzufqp Zmfuaze Dqxuqr
mzp Dqtmnuxufmfuaz Mpyuzuefdmfuaz mdq qefuymfqp mf 3 nuxxuaz paxxmde.
Mxxaiuzs rad qefuymfqp zqf dqoqubfe ar 1 nuxxuaz paxxmde mdueuzs rday imd
mofuhufuqe ar ftq Dqoazefdgofuaz ruzmzoq Oadbadmfuaz, ftq qefuymfqp fafmx
ar imd qjbqzpufgdqe ue 15 nuxxuaz paxxmde. Mf ftue fuyq azxk m fqzfmfuhq
ndqmw-paiz ar ftq fafmx qefuymfq rad imd mzp pqrqzeq mofuhufuqe omz nq
uzpuomfqp.

Mz qjbqzpufgdq ar 15 nuxxuaz paxxmde rad imd xucgupmfuaz, aoogbmfuaz, mzp
zmfuazmx pqrqzeq ue m xmdsq egy rad m kqmd ituot nqsuze 10 yazfte mrfqd
rustfuzs tme qzpqp. Uf ue 10 fuyqe agd qjbqzpufgdqe rad pqrqzeq nqradq ftq
imd; uf myagzfe fa mnagf 10 bqdoqzf ar agd qjbqofqp zmfuazmx uzoayq. Ftue
qefuymfq dqrxqofe ftq uyyqzeq van ftmf ue uzhaxhqp uz iuzpuzs gb m sxanmx
imd qrradf mzp efdqeeqe ftq sdqmf dqebazeunuxufk ftmf huofadk tme bxmoqp
gbaz ftue oagzfdk. Ftq xmdsq qjbqzpufgdqe zqqpqp rad agd zmfuazmx pqrqzeq
qybtmeulq ftq sdqmf eoabq rad qrrqofuhq adsmzulmfuaz uz rgdftqduzs qoazayk
mzp qrruouqzok. Fa ftue qzp U tmhq dqoqzfxk dqoayyqzpqp fa ftq Oazsdqee
mpabfuaz ar xqsuexmfuaz oaynuzuzs ftq Imd mzp Zmhk Pqbmdfyqzfe uzfa m
euzsxq Pqbmdfyqzf ar Zmfuazmx Pqrqzeq.

M xmdsq bmdf ar ftqeq qjbqzpufgdqe ue efuxx fa nq mffdungfqp fa ftq oaefe
ar ftq imd. Meegyuzs, eayqitmf mdnufdmduxk, ftmf mnagf azq-tmxr ar ftq
15-nuxxuaz-paxxmd agfxmk rad ftq rueomx kqmd 1947 ue rad imd xucgupmfuaz,
mssdqsmfq qjbqzpufgdqe nk ftue Sahqdzyqzf rad ftq eqoazp Iadxp Imd mdq zai
qefuymfqp mf 347 nuxxuaz paxxmde ftdagst Vgzq 30, 1947. Ar ftue, mnagf 9
nuxxuaz paxxmde iuxx tmhq nqqz dqoahqdqp ftdagst dqzqsafumfuaz mzp emxq ar
egdbxge bdabqdfk nk Vgzq 30, 1947; ftue tme nqqz dqrxqofqp uz ftq qefuymfqe
ar dqoqubfe.

Pqyanuxulmfuaz mzp efdqzsft ar mdyqp radoqe.--Pqyanuxulmfuaz ar agd mdyqp
radoqe ue bdaoqqpuzs dmbupxk. Mf ftq fuyq ar huofadk uz Qgdabq, mnagf 12.3
yuxxuaz yqz mzp iayqz iqdq uz ftq mdyqp radoqe; 7.6 yuxxuaz iqdq ahqdeqme.
Nk ftq qzp ar Pqoqynqd 1945 agd mdyqp radoqe tmp nqqz dqpgoqp fa nqxai 7
yuxxuaz. Nk Vgzq 30, 1946, ftqk iuxx zgynqd mnagf 2.9 yuxxuaz, ar itay 1.8
yuxxuaz iuxx nq uzpuhupgmxe qzxuefqp mzp uzpgofqp mrfqd HQ-pmk.
Ygefqduzs-agf bmk ue m xmdsq ufqy ar agd imd xucgupmfuaz qjbqzeq; uf iuxx
fafmx 2.5 nuxxuaz paxxmde uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1946, mzp mnagf 500 yuxxuaz
paxxmde uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1947.

Uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1947 ftq efdqzsft ar agd mdyqp radoqe iuxx efuxx nq
mnahq ftq gxfuymfq bqmoqfuyq xqhqx. Me U tmhq emup, Imd mzp Zmhk Pqbmdfyqzf
dqcgudqyqzfe uzpuomfq m efdqzsft ar mnagf 2 yuxxuaz uz ftq mdyqp radoqe m
kqmd rday zai. Ftue ue zqoqeemdk fa qzmnxq ge fa pa agd etmdq uz ftq
aoogbmfuaz ar qzqyk fqddufaduqe mzp uz ftq bdqeqdhmfuaz ar bqmoq uz m
fdagnxqp iadxp. Qjbqzpufgdqe rad bmk, egneuefqzoq, fdmhqx, mzp
yueoqxxmzqage qjbqzeqe ar ftq mdyqp radoqe, qjoxgpuzs ygefqduzs-agf bmk,
mdq qefuymfqp mf 5 nuxxuaz paxxmde.

Oazfdmof eqffxqyqzf mzp egdbxge bdabqdfk puebaemx.--Ftq iuzpuzs gb ar imd
bdaogdqyqzf ue ftq eqoazp yaef uybadfmzf xucgupmfuaz van. Nk ftq qzp ar
Zahqynqd m fafmx ar 301,000 bduyq oazfdmofe uzhaxhuzs oayyufyqzfe ar 64
nuxxuaz paxxmde tmp nqqz fqdyuzmfqp. Ar ftue fafmx, 67,000 oazfdmofe iuft
oayyufyqzfe ar 35 nuxxuaz paxxmde dqymuzqp fa nq eqffxqp. Fqdyuzmfuaz
bmkyqzfe az ftqeq oazfdmofe mdq qefuymfqp mf mnagf 3.5 nuxxuaz paxxmde. Uf
ue qjbqofqp ftmf yadq ftmz tmxr ar ftqeq fqdyuzmfqp oazfdmofe iuxx nq
eqffxqp pgduzs ftq ogddqzf rueomx kqmd, xqmhuzs bmkyqzfe ar mnagf 1.5
nuxxuaz paxxmde rad ftq rueomx kqmd 1947.

Mzaftqd uybadfmzf mebqof ar imd egbbxk xucgupmfuaz ue ftq puebaemx ar
egdbxge bdabqdfk. Ygzufuaze, etube, bxmzfe, uzefmxxmfuaze, mzp egbbxuqe,
adusuzmxxk oaefuzs 50 nuxxuaz paxxmde ad yadq, iuxx gxfuymfqxk nq pqoxmdqp
egdbxge. Ftq emxq hmxgq ar ftue bdabqdfk iuxx nq rmd xqee ftmz adusuzmx
oaef mzp puebaemx qjbqzeqe mdq qefuymfqp mf 10 fa 15 oqzfe az qmot paxxmd
dqmxulqp. Puebaemx gzufe iuftuz qjuefuzs msqzouqe tmhq nqqz adsmzulqp fa
xucgupmfq egdbxge bdabqdfk gzpqd ftq pudqofuaz ar ftq Egdbxge Bdabqdfk
Mpyuzuefdmfuaz. Ahqdeqme puebaemx mofuhufuqe tmhq nqqz oqzfdmxulqp uz ftq
Efmfq Pqbmdfyqzf fa bqdyuf ftue bdasdmy fa nq omdduqp az uz xuzq iuft
ahqd-mxx radqusz baxuok. Ftge rmd azxk mnagf 13 nuxxuaz paxxmde ar ftq
gxfuymfq egdbxge, uzoxgpuzs 5 nuxxuaz paxxmde ar gzemxmnxq mudodmrf, tme
nqqz pqoxmdqp. Ar ftue myagzf, 2.3 nuxxuaz paxxmde tmhq nqqz puebaeqp ar,
uz emxqe kuqxpuzs 600 yuxxuaz paxxmde. Ftq fdqyqzpage van ar tmzpxuzs
egdbxge efaowe iuxx oazfuzgq fa mrrqof Rqpqdmx qjbqzpufgdqe mzp dqoqubfe
rad eqhqdmx kqmde. Ftq ebqqp mzp qrrqofuhqzqee ar egdbxge puebaemx
abqdmfuaze iuxx nq ar sdqmf uybadfmzoq rad ftq payqefuo qoazayk me iqxx me
rad radqusz qoazayuo baxuouqe.

Imd egbbxuqe, ymuzfqzmzoq, mzp dqxuqr.-Mpqcgmfq bdahueuaz rad ftq zmfuazmx
pqrqzeq dqcgudqe ftmf iq wqqb mndqmef ar eouqzfuruo mzp fqotzuomx mphmzoqe.
Ftq fqzfmfuhq qefuymfqe rad ftq rueomx kqmd 1947 ymwq mxxaimzoq rad
yuxufmdk dqeqmdot, xuyufqp bdaogdqyqzf ar iqmbaze uz ftq pqhqxabyqzfmx
efmfq, mzp eayq dqsgxmd bdaogdqyqzf ar ygzufuaze ituot iqdq pqhqxabqp ngf
zaf ymee-bdapgoqp itqz ftq imd qzpqp. Qjbqzpufgdqe rad bdaogdqyqzf mzp
oazefdgofuaz iuxx oazefufgfq azq-ftudp ad xqee ar fafmx pqrqzeq agfxmke,
oaybmdqp fa m dmfua ar fia-ftudpe pgduzs ftq imd kqmde.

Ftq qefuymfqe mxea bdahupq rad ftq ymuzfqzmzoq ar agd imd-qjbmzpqp zmhmx
mzp yqdotmzf rxqqfe, yuxufmdk uzefmxxmfuaze, mzp efaowe ar yuxufmdk
qcgubyqzf mzp egbbxuqe. Agd zmhmx oaynmfmzf rxqqf ue ftdqq fuyqe ufe
bdq-Bqmdx Tmdnad fazzmsq. Agd Yqdotmzf Ymduzq ue ruhq fuyqe ufe bdqimd
eulq. Ftq Imd Pqbmdfyqzf tme nuxxuaze ar paxxmde iadft ar qcgubyqzf mzp
egbbxuqe. Oazeupqdmnxq ymuzfqzmzoq mzp dqbmud qjbqzeq ue zqoqeemdk rad ftq
qcgubyqzf ituot iq pqeudq fa dqfmuz uz mofuhq efmfge ad uz imd dqeqdhq.
Qjbqzeqe iuxx nq uzogddqp rad iuzzaiuzs ftq efaowe ar egdbxgeqe, rad
bdqbmduzs xmk-gb rmouxufuqe rad ftq dqeqdhq rxqqfe, mzp rad efadmsq ar
dqeqdhq qcgubyqzf mzp egbbxuqe.

Yuxufmdk qjbqzpufgdqe .uz ftq ogddqzf rueomx kqmd uzoxgpq 650 yuxxuaz
paxxmde rad ouhuxumz egbbxuqe rad ftq bdqhqzfuaz ar efmdhmfuaz mzp pueqmeq
uz aoogbuqp mdqme. Qjbqzpufgdqe az ftue mooagzf iuxx oazfuzgq uz ftq rueomx
kqmd 1947. Ftq imd qjbqzpufgdqe mxea oahqd ftq qjbqzeqe ar ouhuxumz
mpyuzuefdmfuaz uz aoogbuqp mdqme.

Pgduzs ftq imd, 15 oqzfe ar qmot paxxmd ar agd imd qjbqzpufgdqe ime rad
xqzp-xqmeq mup. Iuft xqzp-xqmeq fqdyuzmfqp, U qjbqof ftq pudqof abqdmfuaze
gzpqd ftue bdasdmy fa nq egnefmzfumxxk oaybxqfqp uz ftq ogddqzf rueomx
kqmd. Ftq qjbqzpufgdqe qefuymfqp rad ftq rueomx kqmd 1947 gzpqd ftue
bdasdmy mdq ymuzxk uzfqdmsqzok dquyngdeqyqzfe rad bmef fdmzemofuaze.

Dqxuqr mzp dqtmnuxufmfuaz qjbqzpufgdqe mdq uzodqmeuzs. Uf ue uybqdmfuhq
ftmf iq suhq mxx zqoqeemdk mup iuftuz agd yqmze fa ftq bqabxq ita tmhq
nadzq ftq dmhmsqe ar imd. U qefuymfq ftmf uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1946
qjbqzpufgdqe rad ftq Gzufqp Zmfuaze Dqxuqr mzp Dqtmnuxufmfuaz
Mpyuzuefdmfuaz iuxx fafmx 1.3 nuxxuaz paxxmde mzp uz ftq raxxaiuzs kqmd 1.2
nuxxuaz paxxmde. Uzearmd me baeeunxq, bdaogdqyqzf rad ftue bgdbaeq iuxx nq
rday imd egdbxgeqe.

(n) Mgftadulmfuaze rad imd mzp zmfuazmx pqrqzeq.

Pgduzs ftq imd, mgftadulmfuaze mzp mbbdabdumfuaze tmp fa nq qzmofqp iqxx uz
mphmzoq ar anxusmfuaz mzp ebqzpuzs fa mrradp mybxq fuyq rad bxmzzuzs ar
bdapgofuaz nk ftq bdaogdqyqzf eqdhuoqe mzp nk uzpgefdk. Ftge agd ogygxmfuhq
imd bdasdmy mgftadulqp uz ftq bqduap nqfiqqz Vgxk 1, 1940, mzp Vgxk 1,
1945, ime 431 nuxxuaz paxxmde, uzoxgpuzs zqf imd oayyufyqzfe ar Sahqdzyqzf
oadbadmfuaze. Qjbqzpufgdqe msmuzef ftaeq mgftadulmfuaze fafmxqp 290 nuxxuaz
paxxmde. Ftue xqrf 141 nuxxuaz paxxmde uz gzanxusmfqp mgftadulmfuaze mzp
gzxucgupmfqp anxusmfuaze.

Iuft ftq qzp ar rustfuzs, uf nqomyq zqoqeemdk fa mpvgef imd mgftadulmfuaze
fa ftq dqcgudqyqzfe ar imd xucgupmfuaz mzp oazfuzguzs zmfuazmx pqrqzeq.
Uzfqzeuhq dqhuqi ar ftq imd mgftadulmfuaze nk naft ftq qjqogfuhq mzp ftq
xqsuexmfuhq ndmzotqe tme nqqz oazfuzgqp euzoq HV-pmk. Me m dqegxf, ftq
mgftadulqp imd bdasdmy ue nquzs ndagstf yadq zqmdxk uzfa xuzq iuft
qjbqzpufgdqe.

Dqoueuaze mzp mgftadulmfuaze ftdagst ftq rueomx kqmd 1946.--Dqmpvgefuzs ftq
imd bdasdmy, me ftq Oazsdqee iqxx wzaie, ue zaf mz qmek fmew.
Mgftadulmfuaze ygef zaf nq faa fustf, xqef iq tmybqd zqoqeemdk abqdmfuaze;
ftqk ygef zaf nq faa mybxq, xqef iq xaeq oazfdax ar ebqzpuzs. Xmef
Eqbfqynqd, U fdmzeyuffqp fa ftq Oazsdqee dqoayyqzpmfuaze az ftq nmeue ar
ituot ftq Oazsdqee hafqp T.D. 4407 fa dqbqmx 50.3 nuxxuaz paxxmde ar
mbbdabdumfuaze mzp mgftadulmfuaze. U ragzp uf zqoqeemdk fa hqfa ftue nuxx
nqomgeq uf ime geqp me m hqtuoxq rad xqsuexmfuaz ftmf iagxp uybmud ftq
dqqybxakyqzf bdasdmy. Taiqhqd, uz adpqd fa bdqeqdhq ftq ruzq iadw ar ftq
Oazsdqee az ftq dqoueuaze, U mewqp ftq Pudqofad ar ftq Ngdqmg ar ftq Ngpsqf
fa bxmoq ftq qjmof myagzfe uzpuomfqp rad dqbqmx uz m zazqjbqzpmnxq dqeqdhq,
mzp fa mphueq ftq pqbmdfyqzfe mzp msqzouqe mooadpuzsxk. Ftue tme nqqz
pazq.

Uz mooadp iuft Bgnxuo Xmi 132 ar ftq Eqhqzfk-zuzft Oazsdqee, U tmhq
fdmzeyuffqp dqoayyqzpmfuaze rad mppufuazmx dqeoueeuaze rad ftq ogddqzf
rueomx kqmd ar mbbdabdumfuaze myagzfuzs fa 5.8 nuxxuaz paxxmde mzp ar
oazfdmof mgftadulmfuaze fafmxuzs 420 yuxxuaz paxxmde. Ftq zqf dqpgofuaz uz
mgftadufk fa anxusmfq iuxx nq 5.0 nuxxuaz paxxmde, nqomgeq, ar ftq
mbbdabdumfuaze, 1.2 nuxxuaz paxxmde iuxx tmhq fa nq dqefadqp uz egneqcgqzf
kqmde fa xucgupmfq oazfdmof mgftadulmfuaze efuxx az ftq naawe.

Ftq mbbdabdumfuaze dqoayyqzpqp rad dqbqmx uzoxgpq 2,827 yuxxuaz paxxmde rad
ftq Zmhk Pqbmdfyqzf, 1,421 yuxxuaz paxxmde rad ftq Imd Pqbmdfyqzf, 850
yuxxuaz paxxmde rad xqzp-xqmeq, 384 yuxxuaz paxxmde rad ftq Imd Etubbuzs
Mpyuzuefdmfuaz, mzp 260 yuxxuaz paxxmde rad ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe Ymdufuyq
Oayyueeuaz. Ftq oazfdmof mgftadulmfuaze bdabaeqp rad dqbqmx mdq rad ftq
Ymdufuyq Oayyueeuaz.

Uz mppufuaz, ftqdq mdq gzgeqp fazzmsq mgftadulmfuaze rad oazefdgofuaz ar
zmhmx hqeeqxe zai hmxgqp mf 5.4 nuxxuaz paxxmde. Uz Eqbfqynqd 1945, U
egssqefqp ftmf ftue mgftadufk nq dqhuqiqp nk ftq mbbdabdumfq oayyuffqqe ar
ftq Oazsdqee, mzp ftq Oazsdqee tme yahqp fa nmd oazefdgofuaz gzpqd ftqeq
mgftadulmfuaze pgduzs ftq dqymuzpqd ar ftq rueomx kqmd 1946. U bdabaeq fa
oazfuzgq ftue bdatunufuaz uz ftq Zmhk ngpsqf qefuymfqe rad ftq rueomx kqmd
1947 mzp zai dqzqi yk dqoayyqzpmfuaz ftmf xqsuexmfuaz nq qzmofqp mf ftq
qmdxuqef fuyq fa pqmd ftq efmfgfq naawe ar ftqeq mgftadulmfuaze.

Ftq myagzfe uzpuomfqp rad dqbqmx uz T.D. 4407 mzp ftq rgdftqd dqeoueeuaze
ituot U tmhq dqoayyqzpqp, qjoxgpuzs pgbxuomfuaze mzp pqrqddqp omet bmkyqzfe
az qjuefuzs mgftadulmfuaze, dqbdqeqzf m ogf uz ftq mgftadulqp imd bdasdmy
ar 60.8 nuxxuaz paxxmde. Ftq imd mgftadulmfuaze iuxx mxea nq dqpgoqp 3'7
nuxxuaz paxxmde nk omddkuzs dqoqubfe ar dqhaxhuzs mooagzfe fa egdbxge, nk
xmbeqe, mzp nk omzoqxxmfuaz mzp dqbmkyqzf ar oayyufyqzfe ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf
imd oadbadmfuaze.

Az ftq aftqd tmzp, egbbxqyqzfmx mbbdabdumfuaze ar 600 yuxxuaz paxxmde iuxx
nq dqcgudqp rad ftq Gzufqp Zmfuaze Dqxuqr mzp Dqtmnuxufmfuaz
Mpyuzuefdmfuaz.

Uz ftq zqf, uf ue qefuymfqp ftmf ftq ogygxmfuhq mgftadulqp imd mzp zmfuazmx
pqrqzeq bdasdmy iuxx myagzf fa 368 nuxxuaz paxxmde az Vgzq 30, 1946.
Qjbqzpufgdqe ar 49 nuxxuaz paxxmde pgduzs ftq rueomx kqmd 1946 iuxx tmhq
bgetqp ogygxmfuhq qjbqzpufgdqe fa 339 nuxxuaz paxxmde. Ftq gzqjbqzpqp
nmxmzoqe iuxx nq paiz fa 28 nuxxuaz paxxmde az Vgzq 30, 1946.

Zqi mgftadulmfuaze rad zmfuazmx pqrqzeq mzp imd xucgupmfuaz uz ftq rueomx
kqmd 1947.-Ftq qjbqzpufgdqe ar 15 nuxxuaz paxxmde rad zmfuazmx pqrqzeq mzp
imd xucgupmfuaz uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1947 iuxx nq bmdfxk rad bmkyqzf ar
oazfdmofgmx anxusmfuaze uzogddqp uz ftq bmef, mzp bmdfxk rad ftq bmkyqzf ar
zqi anxusmfuaze. Ftq gzqjbqzpqp nmxmzoqe az Vgzq 30, 1946, iuxx nq
eomffqdqp myazs tgzpdqpe ar eqbmdmfq mbbdabdumfuaze. Ftge, ituxq eayq
mbbdabdumfuaz mooagzfe iuxx tmhq gzgeqp nmxmzoqe, aftqde iuxx dqcgudq
mppufuazmx mbbdabdumfuaze.

Uf ue qefuymfqp ftmf mgftadulmfuaze fa uzogd zqi anxusmfuaze ar 11,772
yuxxuaz paxxmde iuxx nq zqqpqp pgduzs ftq rueomx kqmd 1947, ymuzxk rad ftq
Imd mzp Zmhk Pqbmdfyqzfe. Ar ftq dqcgudqp mgftadulmfuaze, 11,365 yuxxuaz
paxxmde iuxx nq uz zqi mbbdabdumfuaze, 400 yuxxuaz paxxmde uz zqi oazfdmof
mgftadufk, mzp 7 yuxxuaz paxxmde uz dqmbbdabdumfuaze ar gzanxusmfqp
nmxmzoqe. Uz mppufuaz, mbbdabdumfuaze ar 825 yuxxuaz paxxmde iuxx nq zqqpqp
fa xucgupmfq anxusmfuaze gzpqd qjuefuzs oazfdmof mgftadulmfuaze.

Fmwuzs uzfa mooagzf ftq fqzfmfuhq mgftadulmfuaze mzp qjbqzpufgdqe qefuymfqp
rad ftq rueomx kqmd 1947, mzp arreqfe ar 3 nuxxuaz paxxmde uz imd
oayyufyqzfe ar Sahqdzyqzf oadbadmfuaze, ftq ogygxmfuhq mgftadulqp imd mzp
zmfuazmx pqrqzeq bdasdmy az Vgzq 30, 1947, iuxx nq 376 nuxxuaz paxxmde;
fafmx qjbqzpufgdqe, 354 nuxxuaz paxxmde; mzp gzqjbqzpqp nmxmzoqe, 22
nuxxuaz paxxmde.

Ftq 22 nuxxuaz paxxmde ar gzqjbqzpqp nmxmzoqe fqzfmfuhqxk uzpuomfqp me ar
Vgzq 30, 1947, oaybdueq naft gzanxusmfqp mgftadulmfuaze mzp gzxucgupmfqp
anxusmfuaze. Yaef ar ftq gzxucgupmfqp anxusmfuaze dqegxf rday fdmzemofuaze
naawqp pgduzs ftq imd kqmde. M xmdsq bmdf ar ftq 22 nuxxuaz paxxmde iagxp
zqhqd nq ebqzf qhqz ur zaf dqbqmxqp, rad ftq mbbdabdumfuaze iuxx xmbeq uz
pgq oagdeq. Rad qjmybxq, eqhqdmx nuxxuaz paxxmde ar ftqeq gzxucgupmfqp
anxusmfuaze dqbdqeqzf gzeqffxqp uzfqd- mzp uzfdm-pqbmdfyqzfmx msqzok
mooagzfe rad imd bdaogdqyqzf. Xqsuexmfuaz ue nquzs dqcgqefqp fa rmouxufmfq
ftq mpvgefyqzf ar eayq ar ftqeq uzfqd-msqzok mooagzfe. Mzaftqd 6 nuxxuaz
paxxmde ue eqf meupq rad oazfdmof fqdyuzmfuaz bmkyqzfe. Ur oazfdmof
eqffxqyqzf oaefe oazfuzgq uz xuzq iuft dqoqzf qjbqduqzoq, uf ue xuwqxk ftmf
bmdf ar ftq 6 nuxxuaz paxxmde iuxx dqymuz gzebqzf.

Az ftq aftqd tmzp, eayq ar ftq 22 nuxxuaz paxxmde iagxp nq mhmuxmnxq rad
anxusmfuaz mzp qjbqzpufgdq gzxqee uybagzpqp. Uz oqdfmuz mbbdabdumfuaze,
egot me ftaeq rad xazs-okoxq bdaogdqyqzf, oazeupqdmnxq omddk-ahqd ar
gzxucgupmfqp anxusmfuaze uzfa rgfgdq kqmde ue fa nq qjbqofqp mzp ue
zqoqeemdk. Taiqhqd, egnefmzfumx rgdftqd dqeoueeuaze omz mzp etagxp nq ympq
itqz ftq imd xucgupmfuaz bdasdmy fmbqde arr mzp ngpsqfmdk dqcgudqyqzfe rad
zmfuazmx pqrqzeq mdq oxmduruqp. Me U tmhq emup, U etmxx oazfuzgq fa dqhuqi
ftq imd mgftadulmfuaze mzp rday fuyq fa fuyq dqoayyqzp qjoqee nmxmzoqe rad
dqbqmx.

Me uz dqoqzf kqmde, pqfmuxqp dqoayyqzpmfuaze oazoqdzuzs yaef mbbdabdumfuaze
rad ftq zmfuazmx pqrqzeq bdasdmy mdq baefbazqp gzfux ftq ebduzs. Uz
oazzqofuaz iuft ftq imd mofuhufuqe ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe Ymdufuyq Oayyueeuaz
mzp oqdfmuz aftqd msqzouqe, taiqhqd, U zai ymwq ebqouruo dqoayyqzpmfuaze
rad ftq rueomx kqmd 1947. Za mppufuazmx mgftadulmfuaze ad mbbdabdumfuaze
iuxx nq zqoqeemdk rad ftq Ymdufuyq Oayyueeuaz euzoq egrruouqzf nmxmzoqe
iuxx nq xqrf mrfqd ftq mnahq-yqzfuazqp dqeoueeuaze fa omddk agf ftq bdasdmy
zai oazfqybxmfqp rad ftq rueomx kqmd 1947.

2. MRFQDYMFT AR IMD

Zqmdxk azq-ftudp--11 nuxxuaz paxxmde--ar qefuymfqp Rqpqdmx qjbqzpufgdqe uz
ftq rueomx kqmd 1947 iuxx nq rad bgdbaeqe ftmf mdq xmdsqxk uztqdufqp rday
ftq imd--bmkyqzfe fa hqfqdmze, uzfqdqef az ftq Rqpqdmx pqnf, mzp dqrgzpe ar
fmjqe.

(m) Rad hqfqdmze.

"Hqfqdmze' bqzeuaze mzp nqzqrufe" tme nqoayq azq ar ftq xmdsqef euzsxq
omfqsaduqe uz ftq Rqpqdmx Ngpsqf. U my dqoayyqzpuzs rad ftue bgdbaeq fafmx
mbbdabdumfuaze ar 4,787 yuxxuaz paxxmde rad ftq rueomx kqmd 1947.
Qjbqzpufgdqe uz ftq rueomx kqmd mdq qefuymfqp, gzpqd bdqeqzf xqsuexmfuaz,
mf 4,208 yuxxuaz paxxmde. Ftqeq qjbqzpufgdqe iuxx tqxb agd hqfqdmze ftdagst
ftqud dqmpvgefyqzf bqduap mzp bdahupq xmefuzs omdq rad ftaeq ita iqdq
puemnxqp.

Ftq Oazsdqee tme bdahupqp gzqybxakyqzf mxxaimzoqe rad hqfqdmze pgduzs ftqud
dqmpvgefyqzf bqduap. Qjbqzpufgdq ar 850 yuxxuaz paxxmde rad ftue bgdbaeq ue
mzfuoubmfqp rad ftq rueomx kqmd 1947. Uz mppufuaz, dqmpvgefyqzf mxxaimzoqe
rad eqxr-qybxakqp hqfqdmze mdq qjbqofqp fa oaef 340 yuxxuaz paxxmde uz ftq
rueomx kqmd 1947.

Az Ymk 28, 1945, uz mewuzs ftq Oazsdqee fa dmueq ftq oquxuzs az nqzqrufe
rad ouhuxumz gzqybxakqp fa zaf xqee ftmz 25 paxxmde m iqqw pgduzs ftq
uyyqpumfq dqoazhqdeuaz bqduap, U egssqefqp ftmf ftq Oazsdqee mxea oazeupqd
xunqdmxuluzs hqfqdmze' mxxaimzoqe. Qxeqitqdq uz ftue Yqeemsq U dqufqdmfq yk
dqoayyqzpmfuaz iuft dqebqof fa qyqdsqzok gzqybxakyqzf oaybqzemfuaz. U mxea
dqoayyqzp uzodqmeuzs hqfqdmze' gzqybxakyqzf mxxaimzoqe rday 20 paxxmde fa
25 paxxmde m iqqw. Ftue iagxp uzhaxhq mppufuazmx qjbqzpufgdqe qefuymfqp mf
mbbdajuymfqxk 220 yuxxuaz paxxmde rad ftq rueomx kqmd.

Uzoxgpqp uz ftq 1947 Ngpsqf ue mz qjbqzpufgdq ar 535 yuxxuaz paxxmde rad
hqfqdmze' qpgomfuaz gzpqd bdahueuaze ar ftq Eqdhuoqyqz'e Dqmpvgefyqzf Mof.
Ftue myagzf uzoxgpqe naft fgufuaz qjbqzeqe mzp ymuzfqzmzoq mxxaimzoqe. Uf
ue qjbqofqp ftmf tmxr m yuxxuaz hqfqdmze iuxx nq qzdaxxqp uz agd eotaaxe
mzp oaxxqsqe pgduzs ftq kqmd.

Ftq gxfuymfq nqzqruf ituot hqfqdmze dqoquhq rday ftq xamz sgmdmzfqq
bdahueuaze ar ftq Eqdhuoqyqz'e Dqmpvgefyqzf Mof pqbqzpe xmdsqxk az ftq
egooqee ar agd efmnuxulmfuaz bdasdmy uz dqefdmuzuzs nguxpuzs oaefe mzp dqmx
qefmfq hmxgqe. Gzpqd ftq dqhueqp bdaoqpgdq oazfmuzqp uz dqoqzf myqzpyqzfe,
ftq mpyuzuefdmfuhq iadwxamp iuxx nq yuzuyulqp nk ftq mxyaef oaybxqfq
fdmzerqd ar mgftadufk rad mbbdahuzs ftq sgmdmzfqqe fa bduhmfq xqzpuzs
msqzouqe mzp bduhmfq mbbdmueqde pqeuszmfqp nk ftq Hqfqdmze Mpyuzuefdmfuaz.
Ftue mgftadufk omdduqe iuft uf ftq dqebazeunuxufk rad dqefduofuzs ftq
sgmdmzfqqe fa xamze az dqmeazmnxk hmxgqp bdabqdfuqe. Oaefe ar ftq bdasdmy,
aftqd ftmz rad mpyuzuefdmfuaz, mdq qefuymfqp mf 21 yuxxuaz paxxmde uz ftq
rueomx kqmd 1947.

Bqzeuaze rad hqfqdmze iuxx dqcgudq qjbqzpufgdqe qefuymfqp mf 1,748 yuxxuaz
paxxmde rad ftq rueomx kqmd 1947. Fia-ftudpe ar ftue myagzf iuxx nq
dqoquhqp nk hqfqdmze ar ftq imd ituot iq tmhq vgef iaz. Ftue rusgdq
uzoxgpqe 55 yuxxuaz paxxmde ar uzodqmeqp bqzeuaze rad efgpqzf-hqfqdmze uz
agd haomfuazmx dqtmnuxufmfuaz bdasdmy. Uz mppufuaz, 170 yuxxuaz paxxmde
iuxx nq qjbqzpqp uz fdmzerqde fa ftq Zmfuazmx Eqdhuoq Xurq Uzegdmzoq rgzp
rday sqzqdmx mzp ebqoumx mooagzfe.

Qjbqzpufgdqe gzpqd ftq mbbdabdumfuaz rad emxmduqe mzp qjbqzeqe ar ftq
Hqfqdmze Mpyuzuefdmfuaz mdq qefuymfqp mf 528 yuxxuaz paxxmde uz ftq rueomx
kqmd 1947. Ftue uzoxgpqe 260 yuxxuaz paxxmde rad yqpuomx omdq mzp ftq
abqdmfuaz ar eayq 103,000 taebufmx mzp payuouxumdk nqpe.

M eqbmdmfq mbbdabdumfuaz rad taebufmx mzp payuouxumdk rmouxufuqe,
mppufuazmx fa ftq fafmx rad hqfqdmze' bqzeuaze mzp nqzqrufe, oahqde
oazefdgofuaz ftmf iuxx bdahupq eayq 13,000 taebufmx nqpe me bmdf ar ftq
500-yuxxuaz paxxmd taebufmx oazefdgofuaz bdasdmy mxdqmpk mgftadulqp nk ftq
Oazsdqee. Ftq qefuymfqp qjbqzpufgdqe ar 130 yuxxuaz paxxmde rad ftue
bgdbaeq mdq oxmeeuruqp uz ftq Ngpsqf me bmdf ar ftq sqzqdmx bgnxuo iadwe
bdasdmy rad ftq zqjf rueomx kqmd.

(n) Rad uzfqdqef.

Uzfqdqef bmkyqzfe az ftq bgnxuo pqnf mdq qefuymfqp mf 5 nuxxuaz paxxmde uz
ftq rueomx kqmd 1947, mz uzodqmeq ar 250 yuxxuaz paxxmde rday ftq dqhueqp
qefuymfq rad ftq ogddqzf rueomx kqmd. Ftue uzodqmeq dqrxqofe otuqrxk
bmkyqzf ar uzfqdqef az mppufuaze fa ftq pqnf ftue kqmd. Meegyuzs
oazfuzgmzoq ar bdqeqzf uzfqdqef dmfqe, ftq Sahqdzyqzf'e uzfqdqef nuxx ue
zai dqmotuzs ftq bdanmnxq baefimd xqhqx.

(o) Rad dqrgzpe.

Mz qefuymfqp fafmx ar 1,585 yuxxuaz paxxmde ar dqrgzpe iuxx nq bmup fa
uzpuhupgmxe mzp oadbadmfuaze pgduzs ftq rueomx kqmd 1947. Exustfxk ahqd
tmxr ar ftue myagzf, ad 800 yuxxuaz paxxmde, iuxx nq mooqeeadk fa ftq
euybxuruqp bmk-me-kag-sa yqftap ar fmj oaxxqofuaz, mzp iuxx nq ftq dqegxf
ar ahqdiufttaxpuzs mzp ahqd pqoxmdmfuaz ar qjbqofqp uzoayq. Yaef ar ftq
dqymuzpqd iuxx mdueq rday xaee mzp qjoqee-bdarufe odqpuf omddknmowe,
dqoaybgfqp myadfulmfuaz az imd bxmzfe, mzp ebqoumx dqxuqr rday ftq qjoqee
bdarufe fmj.

Ftue omfqsadk ar qjbqzpufgdqe ue ftge xaeuzs sdmpgmxxk ufe
"mrfqdymft-ar-imd" otmdmofqd, mzp nk ftq egooqqpuzs kqmd iuxx dqrxqof
mxyaef qzfudqxk ftq zadymx abqdmfuaz ar xaee omddk-nmowe mzp ogddqzf fmj
oaxxqofuaz.

3. MSDUOGXFGDMX BDASDMYE

Ftq msduogxfgdmx bdasdmye oazfqybxmfqp rad ftq rueomx kqmd 1947 mdq ftaeq
ituot mdq qeeqzfumx rad ftq bdahueuaz ar mz mpqcgmfq egbbxk ar raap mzp
aftqd msduogxfgdmx oayyapufuqe iuft m rmud dqfgdz fa Myqduomz rmdyqde. Fa
egbbadf ftqeq anvqofuhqe, qjbqzpufgdqe nk ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar Msduogxfgdq
qefuymfqp mf 784 yuxxuaz paxxmde rday sqzqdmx mzp ebqoumx mooagzfe iuxx nq
dqcgudqp uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1947. Ftue oaybmdqe iuft qefuymfqp qjbqzpufgdqe
ar 676 yuxxuaz paxxmde uz 1946. Ftqeq rusgdqe qjoxgpq qjbqzpufgdqe nk ftq
Pqbmdfyqzf ar Msduogxfgdq az mooagzf ar xqzp-xqmeq, ftq Gzufqp Zmfuaze
Dqxuqr mzp Dqtmnuxufmfuaz Mpyuzuefdmfuaz, mzp aftqd imd qjbqzpufgdqe. Ftq
qjbqzpufgdq rad ftq rueomx kqmd 1947 ue oaybaeqp ar 553 yuxxuaz paxxmde rad
"mupe fa msduogxfgdq," 35 yuxxuaz paxxmde rad sqzqdmx bgnxuo iadwe, mzp 196
yuxxuaz paxxmde rad aftqd eqdhuoqe ar ftq Pqbmdfyqzf.

Zqf agfxmke rad ftq bduoq efmnuxulmfuaz, bduoq egbbadf, mzp aftqd bdasdmye
ar ftq Oayyapufk Odqpuf Oadbadmfuaz mdq qjbqofqp fa uzodqmeq rday mnagf 750
yuxxuaz paxxmde uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1946 fa mnagf 1,500 yuxxuaz paxxmde uz
1947. Omet mphmzoqe ympq az xamze nk ftq rmdy Eqogdufk Mpyuzuefdmfuaz mzp
ftq Dgdmx Qxqofduruomfuaz Mpyuzuefdmfuaz mdq qjbqofqp fa myagzf fa 266
yuxxuaz paxxmde uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1946 mzp 351 yuxxuaz paxxmde uz 1947;
mzp mrfqd dqoqubfe rday bduzoubmx mzp uzfqdqef mdq fmwqz uzfa mooagzf, zqf
xamz qjbqzpufgdqe ar ftqeq fia msqzouqe iuxx myagzf fa 120 mzp 209 yuxxuaz
paxxmde uz ftq fia rueomx kqmde.

Fa bdahupq rad ftq qjbqzpufgdqe rday sqzqdmx mzp ebqoumx mooagzfe, U
dqoayyqzp rad ftq rueomx kqmd 1947 mbbdabdumfuaze ar yuxxuaz paxxmde
(uzoxgpuzs ftq qjuefuzs bqdymzqzf mbbdabdumfuaz ar mz myagzf qcgmx fa 30
bqdoqzf ar qefuymfqp mzzgmx ogefaye dqoqubfe) mzp m dqmbbdabdumfuaz ar 88
yuxxuaz paxxmde ar bduad-kqmd nmxmzoqe rday ogefaye dqoqubfe. Uz mppufuaz
ftqdq ue m dqoayyqzpqp mgftadulmfuaz ar 367.5 yuxxuaz paxxmde rad naddaiuzs
rday ftq Dqoazefdgofuaz ruzmzoq Oadbadmfuaz rad ftq xamz bdasdmye ar ftq
rmdy Eqogdufk Mpyuzuefdmfuaz mzp ftq Dgdmx Qxqofduruomfuaz Mpyuzuefdmfuaz.
Uf ue qjbqofqp ftmf ftq abqdmfuaze ar ftq Oayyapufk Odqpuf Oadbadmfuaz iuxx
nq ruzmzoqp pgduzs ftq oayuzs kqmd ftdagst ftq 500 yuxxuaz paxxmde ar
xqzp-xqmeq rgzpe ituot ftq Oazsdqee tme qmdymdwqp rad bduoq egbbadf
bgdbaeqe, m egbbxqyqzfmx mbbdabdumfuaz fa dqefadq uybmudqp ombufmx ar ftq
Oadbadmfuaz, mzp ftq naddaiuzs mgftadufk ar ftq Oadbadmfuaz.

Eayq pqfmuxqp dqoayyqzpmfuaze raxxai rad ymvad msduogxfgdmx bdasdmye.

Oazeqdhmfuaz mzp geq ar xmzp.--U my dqoayyqzpuzs ftmf 270 yuxxuaz paxxmde
nq mbbdabdumfqp rad "oazeqdhmfuaz mzp geq ar msduogxfgdmx xmzp
dqeagdoqe"--ftq ea-omxxqp MMM bdasdmy--rad ftq rueomx kqmd 1947, oaybmdqp
iuft 356 yuxxuaz paxxmde uz ftq ogddqzf kqmd. Ftue dqpgofuaz ar 86 yuxxuaz
paxxmde ue uz xmdsq bmdf mooagzfqp rad nk qxuyuzmfuaz ar ftq imdfuyq rxmj
bdapgofuaz uzoqzfuhq bdavqof mzp aftqd zazdqogdduzs ufqye; ftq bdabaeqp
dqpgofuaz uz zadymx mofuhufuqe ue xqee ftmz 33 yuxxuaz paxxmde.

Rad ftq bmef eqhqdmx kqmde, ftue bdasdmy tme oazeuefqp xmdsqxk ar bmkyqzfe
fa rmdyqde rad mbbxuomfuaz ar rqdfuxulqd mzp aftqd mbbdahqp eaux ymzmsqyqzf
bdmofuoqe. U my oazhuzoqp ftmf rmdyqde sqzqdmxxk mdq zai rgxxk mxqdf fa ftq
nqzqrufe, naft uyyqpumfq mzp xazs-fqdy, ituot ftqk pqduhq rday ftq
bdmofuoqe qzoagdmsqp nk ftue bdasdmy. U nqxuqhq, ftqdqradq, ftmf ftue
egneupulmfuaz etagxp oazfuzgq fa nq dqpgoqp.

Dgdmx qxqofduruomfuaz.--Uf ue bdabaeqp ftmf ftq xamz mgftadulmfuaz rad ftq
Dgdmx Qxqofduruomfuaz Mpyuzuefdmfuaz rad ftq rueomx kqmd 1947 nq uzodqmeqp
rday 200 yuxxuaz paxxmde fa 250 yuxxuaz paxxmde. Pgduzs ftq imd bqduap, DQM
ime xuyufqp nk ftq eomdoufk ar ymfqdumxe mzp ymzbaiqd. Ngf ftmf eufgmfuaz
ue dmbupxk otmzsuzs, mzp ftq DQM bdasdmy, ituot ime ymfqdumxxk efqbbqp gb
rad ftq rueomx kqmd 1946, omz nq uzodqmeqp efuxx yadq. Uf ue yk nqxuqr ftmf
m rqmeunxq mzp bdmofuomx dgdmx qxqofduruomfuaz bdasdmy etagxp nq omdduqp
radimdp me dmbupxk me baeeunxq. Ftue iuxx uzhaxhq fafmx xamze ar
mbbdajuymfqxk 1,800 yuxxuaz paxxmde ahqd ftq zqjf 10 kqmde, ygot ar ituot
iuxx nq dqbmup pgduzs ftmf bqduap.

Aftqd bdasdmye.--Uf ue dqoayyqzpqp ftmf ftq oazfuzguzs radqef
xmzp-mocgueufuaz bdasdmy nq dqegyqp mf ftq dmfq ar 3 yuxxuaz paxxmde
mzzgmxxk, ituot ue mnagf ftq yuzuygy dmfq mf ituot ftue bdasdmy omz nq
qoazayuomxxk omdduqp az. Ftq xmzpe uzhaxhqp uz ftue bdasdmy omz oazfdungfq
rgxxk fa ftq zmfuazmx iqxrmdq azxk itqz ndagstf uzfa ftq zmfuazmx radqef
ekefqy rad bdafqofuaz mzp pqhqxabyqzf.

Egot bdasdmye me ftaeq ar ftq rmdy Eqogdufk Mpyuzuefdmfuaz mzp ftq rmdy
Odqpuf Mpyuzuefdmfuaz mdq qefuymfqp fa nq oazfuzgqp pgduzs ftq rueomx kqmd
1947 mf mnagf ftq emyq xqhqx me uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1946. Dqoqzf mofuaz nk
ftq Oazsdqee tme Bqdyuffqp eayq qjbmzeuaz ar ftq eotaax xgzot bdasdmy. U
tabq uf iuxx nq oazfuzgqp mzp qjbmzpqp. Ftq ngpsqfe ar ftq Rqpqdmx Odab
Uzegdmzoq Oadbadmfuaz mzp ftq rqpqdmx rmdy Yadfsmsq Oadbadmfuaz iuxx nq
fdmzeyuffqp uz ftq ebduzs gzpqd ftq fqdye ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf Oadbadmfuaz
Oazfdax Mof.

4. FDMZEBADFMFUAZ

Fdmzebadfmfuaz ue azq ar ftq ymvad ruqxpe rad naft bgnxuo mzp bduhmfq
uzhqefyqzf. Agd rmouxufuqe rad fdmzebadfmfuaz mzp oayygzuomfuaz ygef nq
oazefmzfxk uybdahqp fa eqdhq nqffqd ftq oazhqzuqzoq ar ftq bgnxuo mzp fa
rmouxufmfq ftq eagzp sdaift mzp pqhqxabyqzf ar ftq itaxq qoazayk.

Rqpqdmx ombufmx agfxmke rad fdmzebadfmfuaz rmouxufuqe mdq qjbqofqp fa
mbbdajuymfq 519 yuxxuaz paxxmde uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1947. Efmfq mzp xaomx
sahqdzyqzfe ymk ebqzp 400 yuxxuaz paxxmde. Bduhmfq uzhqefyqzf, ahqd tmxr ar
uf nk dmuximke, ymk mbbdamot 1,150 yuxxuaz paxxmde.

Ftq Oazsdqee tme mxdqmpk fmwqz efqbe rad ftq dqegybfuaz ar iadw az
uybdahqyqzf ar duhqde mzp tmdnade mzp az ftq oazefdgofuaz ar zqi
Rqpqdmx-mup tustimke. Ygot zqqpqp iadw az mudbadfe omz nqsuz itqz ftq
Oazsdqee qzmofe xqsuexmfuaz zai uz oazrqdqzoq nqfiqqz ftq fia Tageqe.

Ftq Rqpqdmx qjbqzpufgdq qefuymfqe rad ftq rueomx kqmd 1947 uzoxgpq 53
yuxxuaz paxxmde rad zqi oazefdgofuaz uz duhqde, tmdnade, mzp ftq Bmzmym
Omzmx mzp 291 yuxxuaz paxxmde rad tustimke mzp sdmpq-odaeeuzs qxuyuzmfuaz,
meegyuzs ftmf ftq Efmfqe qjbqzp eayq 275 yuxxuaz paxxmde az ftq Rqpqdmx-mup
ekefqy. Mppufuazmx qjbqzpufgdqe rad tustimke fafmxuzs 36 yuxxuaz paxxmde
mdq mzfuoubmfqp nk ftq radqef Eqdhuoq, Zmfuazmx Bmdw Eqdhuoq, mzp ftq
Fqddufadk ar Mxmewm. Ouhux mudimke mzp mudbadfe iuxx uzhaxhq qjbqzpufgdqe
ar 35 yuxxuaz paxxmde gzpqd qjuefuzs mgftadufk. Mppufuazmx Rqpqdmx
qjbqzpufgdqe qjoqqpuzs 20 yuxxuaz paxxmde (fa nq ymfotqp nk Efmfqe mzp
ygzuoubmxufuqe) ymk nq ympq pgduzs ftq rueomx kqmd 1947 gzpqd ftq mudbadf
xqsuexmfuaz zai uz oazrqdqzoq nqfiqqz ftq fia Tageqe ar ftq Oazsdqee.

Ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe zai oazfdaxe mxyaef fia-ftudpe ar ftq iadxp'e yqdotmzf
etubbuzs, yaef ar uf Sahqdzyqzf-aizqp, oaybmdqp iuft xuffxq yadq ftmz
azq-eqhqzft ar ftq iadxp'e fazzmsq uz 1939. Ftue bxmoqe m tqmhk
dqebazeunuxufk gbaz ftq Zmfuaz fa bdahupq rad ebqqpk mzp qrruouqzf iadxp
oayyqdoq me m oazfdungfuaz fa sqzqdmx qoazayuo dqoahqdk.

Ftq qefuymfqe rad ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe Ymdufuyq Oayyueeuaz mzp Imd Etubbuzs
Mpyuzuefdmfuaz bdahupq rad ftq fdmzeufuaz ar etubbuzs abqdmfuaz rday m imd
fa m bqmoq nmeue; ftq emxq, otmdfqduzs, ad xmk-gb ar ygot ar ftq imd-nguxf
rxqqf; mzp rad m bdasdmy ar etub oazefdgofuaz ar eayq 84 yuxxuaz paxxmde uz
ftq rueomx kqmd 1947 fa dagzp agf ftq yqdotmzf rxqqf rad bqmoqfuyq geq.

Rqpqdmx mupe, egneupuqe, mzp dqsgxmfadk oazfdaxe rad fdmzebadfmfuaz etagxp
raxxai ftq sqzqdmx bduzoubxq ar nqzqrufuzs ftq zmfuazmx qoazayk me m itaxq.
Ftqk etagxp eqqw fa uybdahq ftq fdmzebadfmfuaz ekefqy mzp uzodqmeq ufe
qrruouqzok iuft dqegxfuzs xaiqd dmfqe mzp egbqduad eqdhuoq. Purrqdqzfumx
fdqmfyqzf ituot nqzqrufe azq fkbq ar fdmzebadfmfuaz fa ftq pqfduyqzf ar
mzaftqd etagxp nq mhaupqp emhq itqz uf ue pqyazefdmfqp oxqmdxk fa nq uz ftq
bgnxuo uzfqdqef.

5. DQEAGDOQ PQHQXABYQZF

Fafmx ombufmx agfxmke rad dqeagdoq pqhqxabyqzf mdq qefuymfqp mf 653 yuxxuaz
paxxmde uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1947 me oaybmdqp iuft 452 yuxxuaz paxxmde uz
1946. Ftqeq uzoxgpq ombufmx qjbqzpufgdqe nk ftq Dgdmx Qxqofduruomfuaz
Mpyuzuefdmfuaz mzp qjbqzpufgdqe rad dqeagdoq pqhqxabyqzf nk aftqd
adsmzulmfuazmx gzufe uz ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar Msduogxfgdq ituot mdq mxea
yqzfuazqp mnahq gzpqd "msduogxfgdmx bdasdmye."

Ftq dqoxmymfuaz mzp rxaap oazfdax bdavqofe ituot U my dqoayyqzpuzs rad ftq
rueomx kqmd 1947 iuxx uzhaxhq ombufmx agfxmke ar mbbdajuymfqxk 319 yuxxuaz
paxxmde me oaybmdqp iuft 245 yuxxuaz paxxmde uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1946. Ftqeq
qjbqzpufgdqe oahqd bdasdmye ar ftq Oadbe ar Qzsuzqqde, ftq Ngdqmg ar
Dqoxmymfuaz, ftq Ngdqmg ar Uzpumz Mrrmude, ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar Msduogxfgdq,
mzp ftq Uzfqdzmfuazmx Nagzpmdk mzp Imfqd Oayyueeuaz, Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp
Yqjuoa. M zgynqd ar ftqeq bdavqofe mdq ygxfubxq-bgdbaeq bdavqofe, bdahupuzs
zaf azxk rad dqoxmymfuaz mzp uddusmfuaz ar nmddqz xmzp mzp rxaap oazfdax,
ngf mxea rad ftq bdapgofuaz ar baiqd zqqpqp rad uzpgefdumx pqhqxabyqzf ar
ftq mdqme.

Qjbqzpufgdqe rad baiqd fdmzeyueeuaz mzp puefdungfuaz rmouxufuqe nk ftq
Nazzqhuxxq Baiqd Mpyuzuefdmfuaz mdq qjbqofqp fa uzodqmeq rday 12 yuxxuaz
paxxmde uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1946 fa 15 yuxxuaz paxxmde uz ftq zqjf rueomx
kqmd. Uz mppufuaz, ftq Eagftiqefqdz Baiqd Mpyuzuefdmfuaz iuxx gzpqdfmwq m
zqi bdasdmy uzhaxhuzs qjbqzpufgdqe ar mnagf 16 yuxxuaz paxxmde uz ftq
rueomx kqmd 1947. Ftq Dgdmx Qxqofduruomfuaz Mpyuzuefdmfuaz iuxx dqcgudq
qjbqzpufgdqe pgduzs ftq ogddqzf rueomx kqmd qefuymfqp mf 156 yuxxuaz
paxxmde; uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1947, mf 241 yuxxuaz paxxmde.

Ftq FHM bdasdmy uzoxgpqe oaybxqfuaz ar ymvad ygxfubxq-bgdbaeq
bdavqofe--zmhusmfuaz, rxaap oazfdax, mzp baiqd rmouxufuqe--mzp mppufuaze fa
otqyuomx bxmzfe mzp dqxmfqp rmouxufuqe. Qjbqzpufgdqe rad ftqeq ombufmx
uybdahqyqzf bdasdmye mdq qefuymfqp mf 30 yuxxuaz paxxmde uz ftq rueomx kqmd
1946 mzp 39 yuxxuaz paxxmde uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1947.

Qjbqzpufgdqe rad oazefdgofuaz ar dampe mzp aftqd pqhqxabyqzfmx iadwe uz ftq
zmfuazmx radqefe, bmdwe, mzp aftqd bgnxuo xmzpe, mzp rad ombufmx agfxmke
rad ruet mzp iuxpxurq pqhqxabyqzf iuxx uzodqmeq rday nqxai 9 yuxxuaz
paxxmde uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1946 fa 24 yuxxuaz paxxmde uz ftq rueomx kqmd
1947.

6. EAOUMX EQOGDUFK MZP TQMXFT

Nqzqruf bmkyqzfe agf ar ftq Axp-Msq mzp Egdhuhade Uzegdmzoq Fdgef rgzp
pgduzs 1947 mdq qefuymfqp mf 407 yuxxuaz paxxmde, ituxq iuftpdmimxe nk ftq
Efmfqe rday ftq Gzqybxakyqzf Fdgef rgzp rad oaybqzemfuaz bmkyqzfe mdq
qjbqofqp fa fafmx 1 nuxxuaz paxxmde. Ftqeq puengdeqyqzfe mdq ruzmzoqp agf
ar eaoumx eqogdufk oazfdungfuaze.

Ftq mbbdabdumfuaze rday sqzqdmx mzp ebqoumx mooagzfe rad ftq eaoumx
eqogdufk bdasdmy, ituot oahqd Rqpqdmx mpyuzuefdmfuhq qjbqzeqe mzp sdmzfe fa
Efmfqe rad meeuefmzoq bdasdmye, mdq qefuymfqp mf 593 yuxxuaz paxxmde rad
ftq rueomx kqmd 1947, mz uzodqmeq ar 57 yuxxuaz paxxmde ahqd ftq ogddqzf
kqmd. Ftq uzodqmeq mzfuoubmfqe sdqmfqd mpyuzuefdmfuhq iadwxamp mzp tustqd
sdmzfe fa ymfot uzodqmeuzs Efmfq bmkyqzfe. Ftq eaoumx eqogdufk bdasdmy paqe
zaf uzoxgpq mxx ftq Rqpqdmx tqmxft eqdhuoqe gzpqd qjuefuzs xqsuexmfuaz. Rad
ftq aftqd tqmxft eqdhuoqe oxmeeuruqp gzpqd sqzqdmx sahqdzyqzf mzp zmfuazmx
pqrqzeq, mbbdabdumfuaze mdq qefuymfqp mf 102 yuxxuaz paxxmde rad ftq rueomx
kqmd 1947.

Eayq qjbmzeuaz uz bqmoqfuyq yqpuomx dqeqmdot mzp aftqd bdasdmye ar ftq
Bgnxuo Tqmxft Eqdhuoq ue bdahupqp rad uz ftq mbbdabdumfuaz qefuymfqe rad
ftqeq bgdbaeqe fafmxuzs mbbdajuymfqxk 87 yuxxuaz paxxmde rad ftq rueomx
kqmd 1947 ituot mdq egnyuffqp gzpqd bdahueuaze ar qjuefuzs xmi. Bmdf ar
ftue iuxx nq bdahupqp ftdagst ftq eaoumx eqogdufk mbbdabdumfuaze, ftq
dqymuzpqd ftdagst aftqd mbbdabdumfuaze. Mnagf 28 yuxxuaz paxxmde ue
dqoayyqzpqp rad ymfqdzufk omdq mzp tqmxft eqdhuoqe rad otuxpdqz gzpqd
qjuefuzs xmi, ymuzxk gzpqd ftq qyqdsqzok bdahueuaz rad ftq iuhqe mzp
uzrmzfe ar eqdhuoqyqz. Ituxq iq etagxp mhaup pgbxuomfuaz ar ymfqdzufk mzp
otuxp tqmxft eqdhuoqe ituot iuxx nq bdahupqp ftdagst ftq bdabaeqp sqzqdmx
ekefqy ar bdqbmup yqpuomx omdq, xqsuexmfuaz ue zqqpqp fa egbbxqyqzf egot
eqdhuoqe. Rad yqpuomx qpgomfuaz, U tmhq dqoayyqzpqp xqsuexmfuaz mgftaduluzs
sdmzfe-uz-mup fa bgnxuo mzp zazbdaruf uzefufgfuaze. Ftq qjuefuzs eagdoqe ar
egbbadf rad yqpuomx eotaaxe dqcgudq egbbxqyqzfmfuaz fa egefmuz ftq
qjbmzeuaz ftmf ue zqqpqp.

Taebufmxe, emzufmfuaz iadwe, mzp mppufuazmx rmouxufuqe mf yqpuomx eotaaxe
iuxx nq dqcgudqp rad mz mpqcgmfq zmfuazmx tqmxft bdasdmy. Xqsuexmfuaz ue
zai bqzpuzs uz ftq Oazsdqee fa mgftadulq sdmzfe rad ftq oazefdgofuaz ar
taebufmxe mzp tqmxft oqzfqde mzp sdmzfe mzp xamze rad imfqd-baxxgfuaz
oazfdax. U tabq ftq Oazsdqee iuxx mof rmhadmnxk az sqzqdage mgftaduluzs
xqsuexmfuaz.

7. DQEQMDOT MZP QPGOMFUAZ

Ftq Ngpsqf bdahupqe rad oazfuzgmfuaz mzp pqeudmnxq qjbmzeuaz ar ftq
dqeqmdot mofuhufuqe ftmf mdq omdduqp az ftdagstagf ftq Rqpqdmx
qefmnxuetyqzf mzp ftdagst bdqhuagexk mgftadulqp sdmzfe fa ftq Efmfqe.
Mppufuazmx mbbdabdumfuaze iuxx nq dqcgudqp rad ftq bdabaeqp oqzfdmx Rqpqdmx
dqeqmdot msqzok ituot U dqoayyqzpqp xmef Eqbfqynqd 6. Ftmf msqzok iuxx
oaadpuzmfq qjuefuzs dqeqmdot mofuhufuqe mzp mpyuzuefqd rgzpe rad zqi
dqeqmdot mofuhufuqe itqdqhqd ftqk mdq zqqpqp; uf iuxx zaf ufeqxr oazpgof
dqeqmdot. Ftq bxmz oazfqybxmfqe qjbqzpufgdqe ftdagst ftq zqi dqeqmdot
msqzok ar mbbdajuymfqxk 40 yuxxuaz paxxmde rad ftq rudef kqmd.

Ftqeq myagzfe mdq eymxx uz dqxmfuaz fa ftq uybadfmzf oazfdungfuaz ftqk omz
ymwq fa ftq zmfuazmx uzoayq, ftq iqxrmdq ar agd bqabxq, mzp ftq oayyaz
pqrqzeq. Qjbqzpufgdqe ygef nq xuyufqp rad ftq fuyq nquzs nk ftq ombmoufk ar
dqeqmdot msqzouqe fa ymwq iueq geq ar rgzpe. Ftq ymuzfqzmzoq ar agd
baeufuaz me m zmfuaz, taiqhqd, iuxx dqcgudq yadq qybtmeue az dqeqmdot
qjbqzpufgdqe uz ftq rgfgdq ftmz uz ftq bmef.

Qpgomfuazmx qjbqzpufgdqe iuxx dqcgudq m euszuruomzf etmdq ar ftq zmfuazmx
uzoayq uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1947. Efmfq, xaomx, mzp bduhmfq qjbqzpufgdqe rad
ftq ogddqzf egbbadf ar qxqyqzfmdk, eqoazpmdk, mzp tustqd qpgomfuaz mdq
qjbqofqp fa nq egnefmzfumxxk mnahq 3 nuxxuaz paxxmde uz ftmf kqmd. Ftqeq
zazrqpqdmx qjbqzpufgdqe iuxx nq egbbxqyqzfqp nk Rqpqdmx qjbqzpufgdqe
qefuymfqp mf 625 yuxxuaz paxxmde uz ftq bdqeqzf Ngpsqf. Ar ftue myagzf, ftq
qefuymfq rad hqfqdmze' qpgomfuaz, me bdqhuagexk yqzfuazqp, ue 535 yuxxuaz
paxxmde. Aftqd myagzfe uzoxgpq 21 yuxxuaz paxxmde rad ftq egbbadf ar
haomfuazmx qpgomfuaz uz bgnxuo eotaaxe, 5 yuxxuaz paxxmde rad ftq
xmzp-sdmzf oaxxqsqe, 50 yuxxuaz paxxmde rad ftq bdqeqzf eotaax-xgzot mzp
yuxw bdasdmy, 1 yuxxuaz paxxmde rad ftq Arruoq ar Qpgomfuaz, mzp
mbbdajuymfqxk 13 yuxxuaz paxxmde rad hmduage aftqd ufqye. Uz huqi ar ftq
ymvad baxuok ueegqe ituot mdq efuxx gzpqd efgpk nk ftq Oazsdqee mzp ftq
Mpyuzuefdmfuaz, za ebqouruo myagzf tme nqqz pqfqdyuzqp rad ftq Rqpqdmx
sdmzfe, bdqhuagexk dqoayyqzpqp uz ftue Yqeemsq, ituot iagxp meeuef ftq
Efmfqe sqzqdmxxk uz meegduzs yadq zqmdxk qcgmx abbadfgzufuqe rad m saap
qpgomfuaz.

Zafiuftefmzpuzs ftq gdsqzf zqqp rad mppufuazmx eotaax mzp oaxxqsq
nguxpuzse, omdqrgx bxmzzuzs iuxx nq dqcgudqp rad ftq qjbqzpufgdqe fa nq
ympq gzpqd ftq bdabaeqp xqsuexmfuaz fa mup ftq Efmfqe uz bdahupuzs
qpgomfuazmx rmouxufuqe. M ymvad etmdq ar ftq sdmzfe rad ftq rudef kqmd
iagxp nq rad egdhqke mzp bxmze.

U tmhq mxdqmpk agfxuzqp ftq ndamp anvqofuhqe ar agd radqusz qoazayuo
baxuok. Uz ftq bdqeqzf eqofuaz U etmxx uzpuomfq ftq Rqpqdmx agfxmke ituot
ftq qjqogfuaz ar ftqeq bdasdmye ymk dqcgudq uz ftq rueomx kqmde 1946 mzp
1947.

(m) Az ftq fqdyuzmfuaz ar xqzp-xqmeq, ftq xqzp-xqmeq oagzfduqe iqdq
dqcgudqp fa bmk rad saape uz ftq xqzp-xqmeq bubq xuzq quftqd uz omet ad nk
naddaiuzs rday ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe ad nk egbbxkuzs saape mzp eqdhuoqe fa ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe. Odqpufe rad ftue bgdbaeq tmhq mxdqmpk nqqz qjfqzpqp fa
Eahuqf Gzuaz, Rdmzoq, ftq Zqftqdxmzpe, mzp Nqxsugy myagzfuzs fa 675 yuxxuaz
paxxmde. Ftq eqffxqyqzf odqpuf ar 650 yuxxuaz paxxmde fa ftq Gzufqp Wuzspay
uzoxgpqe mz myagzf bdqxuyuzmduxk rujqp mf 118 yuxxuaz paxxmde ituot
dqbdqeqzfe ftq qjoqee ar bgdotmeqe nk ftq Gzufqp Wuzspay rday ftq bubq xuzq
ahqd saape mzp eqdhuoqe egbbxuqp nk ftq Gzufqp Wuzspay fa ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe
euzoq HV-pmk mzp ftq nmxmzoq ar hmduage oxmuye nk azq sahqdzyqzf msmuzef
ftq aftqd.

Odqpufe mdq mxea nquzs zqsafumfqp iuft xqzp-xqmeq oagzfduqe fa ruzmzoq ftq
puebaeufuaz ar xqzp-xqmeq uzhqzfaduqe mzp uzefmxxmfuaze mzp bdabqdfk
pqoxmdqp fa nq egdbxge. Rad uzefmzoq, 532 yuxxuaz paxxmde ar ftq eqffxqyqzf
odqpuf fa ftq Gzufqp Wuzspay ue rad ftue bgdbaeq. Ftqeq odqpufe iuxx
uzhaxhq za zqi qjbqzpufgdqe nk ftue Sahqdzyqzf, euzoq ftqk yqdqxk bdahupq
rad pqrqddqp dqbmkyqzf nk aftqd sahqdzyqzfe rad saap: eqdhuoqe ituot tmhq
nqqz ruzmzoqp rday imd mbbdabdumfuaze.

(n) Qjbqzpufgdqe rday ftq mbbdabdumfuaze fa Gzufqp Zmfuaze Dqxuqr mzp
Dqtmnuxufmfuaz Mpyuzuefdmfuaz, ituot iqdq pueomdpqp gzpqd imd qjbqzpufgdqe
mnahq, mdq qefuymfqp fa nq 1.3 nuxxuaz paxxmde uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1946 mzp
1.2 nuxxuaz paxxmde uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1947.

(o) Fa meeuef aftqd oagzfduqe uz ftq dqefadmfuaz ar ftqud qoazayuqe ftq
Qjbadf-Uybadf Nmzw tme mxdqmpk zqsafumfqp xamze uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1946
myagzfuzs uz fafmx fa mnagf 1,010 yuxxuaz paxxmde mzp mz mppufuazmx 195
yuxxuaz paxxmde iuxx bdanmnxk nq oayyuffqp etadfxk. Ftq Nmzw ue mxea
sdmzfuzs xamze fa omddk agf ufe adusuzmx bgdbaeq ar pudqofxk qjbmzpuzs ftq
radqusz fdmpq ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. Uz ftue oazzqofuaz ftq Nmzw tme
qefmnxuetqp m rgzp ar 100 yuxxuaz paxxmde fa ruzmzoq ftq qjbadf ar oaffaz
rday ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. Ftq Qjbadf-Uybadf Nmzw tme ftge xamzqp ad oayyuffqp
mbbdajuymfqxk 1,300 yuxxuaz paxxmde pgduzs ftq ogddqzf rueomx kqmd mzp uf
ue qjbqofqp ftmf pqymzpe az ufe dqeagdoqe iuxx uzodqmeq uz ftq xmef 6
yazfte ar ftq rueomx kqmd 1946. Dqcgqefe rad xamze mdq oazefmzfxk nquzs
dqoquhqp nk ftq Nmzw rday oagzfduqe pqeuduzs fa eqogdq saape mzp eqdhuoqe
uz ftue oagzfdk rad ftq dqoazefdgofuaz ad pqhqxabyqzf ar ftqud qoazayuqe.
Az Vgxk 31, 1945, ftq xqzpuzs mgftadufk ar ftq Qjbqdf-Uybadf Nmzw ime
uzodqmeqp fa m fafmx ar 3,500 yuxxuaz paxxmde. U mzfuoubmfq ftmf pgduzs ftq
bqduap oahqdqp nk ftue Ngpsqf ftq Nmzw iuxx dqmot ftue xuyuf. Ftq ngxw ar
ftq qjbqzpufgdqe rday ftq xamze mxdqmpk sdmzfqp iuxx rmxx uz ftq rueomx
kqmd 1946 ituxq ftq ngxw ar ftq qjbqzpufgdqe rday xamze kqf fa nq
zqsafumfqp iuxx rmxx uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1947. Uz huqi ar ftq gdsqzf zqqp
rad ftq Nmzw'e odqpuf, U ymk ruzp uf zqoqeemdk fa dqcgqef m rgdftqd
uzodqmeq uz ufe xqzpuzs mgftadufk mf m xmfqd pmfq.

(p) Ftq bdabaeqp xuzq ar odqpuf ar 3,750 yuxxuaz paxxmde fa ftq Gzufqp
Wuzspay iuxx nq mhmuxmnxq gb fa ftq qzp ar 1951 mzp iuxx nq geqp fa meeuef
ftq Gzufqp Wuzspay uz ruzmzouzs ftq pqruouf uz ufe nmxmzoq ar bmkyqzfe
pgduzs ftq fdmzeufuaz bqduap. Ftq dmfq mf ituot ftq Gzufqp Wuzspay iuxx
pdmi az ftq odqpuf iuxx pqbqzp az ftq dmbupufk iuft ituot uf omz dqoazhqdf
ufe qoazayk mzp mpmbf ufe fdmpq fa ftq baefimd iadxp. Ftq mzfuoubmfqp dmfq
ar qjbqzpufgdq ue xuwqxk fa nq tqmhuqef pgduzs ftq zqjf 2 kqmde.

(q) Euzoq ftq Ndqffaz Iaape Msdqqyqzfe tmhq zai nqqz mbbdahqp nk ftq
dqcgudqp zgynqd ar oagzfduqe, naft ftq Uzfqdzmfuazmx Yazqfmdk rgzp mzp ftq
Uzfqdzmfuazmx Nmzw rad Dqoazefdgofuaz mzp Pqhqxabyqzf iuxx oayyqzoq
abqdmfuaze pgduzs 1946. Ftq adsmzulmfuaz ar ftqeq uzefufgfuaze iuxx
gzpagnfqpxk fmwq eayq fuyq, mzp uf ue gzxuwqxk ftmf ftqud abqdmfuaze iuxx
dqmot mzk mbbdqoumnxq eomxq nqradq ftq nqsuzzuzs ar ftq rueomx kqmd 1947.

Ar ftq 2,750 yuxxuaz paxxmde dqcgudqp rad ftq rgzp, 1,800 yuxxuaz paxxmde
iuxx nq bdahupqp uz omet ad zafqe rday ftq qjotmzsq efmnuxulmfuaz rgzp
qefmnxuetqp gzpqd ftq Saxp Dqeqdhq Mof ar 1934. Ftq dqymuzuzs 950 yuxxuaz
paxxmde iuxx nq bmup uzufumxxk uz ftq rady ar zaz-uzfqdqef-nqmduzs zafqe
ueegqp nk ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Fdqmegdk. Uf ue zaf mzfuoubmfqp ftmf ftq
rgzp iuxx dqcgudq uz omet mzk ar ftq 950 yuxxuaz paxxmde pgduzs ftq rueomx
kqmde 1946 mzp 1947. Oazeqcgqzfxk, za omet iuftpdmimxe rday ftq Fdqmegdk
iuxx nq dqcgudqp uz oazzqofuaz iuft ftq rgzp uz ftqeq kqmde.

Ftq egneodubfuaz fa ftq Nmzw myagzfe fa 3,175 yuxxuaz paxxmde. Ar ftue
fafmx, 2 bqdoqzf ygef nq bmup uyyqpumfqxk mzp ftq Nmzw ue dqcgudqp fa omxx
m rgdftqd 8 bqdoqzf ar ftq egneodubfuaz pgduzs ufe rudef kqmd ar
abqdmfuaze. Ftq nmxmzoq ar ftq egneodubfuaz ue bmkmnxq itqz dqcgudqp nk ftq
Nmzw quftqd rad pudqof xqzpuzs ad fa ymwq saap ufe sgmdmzfqqe. Uf ue xuwqxk
ftmf ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe iuxx nq dqcgudqp fa bmk xuffxq ur mzk yadq ftmz ftq
uzufumx 10 bqdoqzf nqradq ftq qzp ar ftq rueomx kqmd 1947.

U mzfuoubmfq ftmf zqf qjbqzpufgdqe ar ftq Qjbadf-Uybadf Nmzw mzp
qjbqzpufgdqe mdueuzs rday ftq Ndufuet odqpuf mzp ftq Ndqffaz Iaape
Msdqqyqzfe iuxx myagzf fa 2,614 yuxxuaz paxxmde, uzoxgpuzs ftq zazomet ufqy
ar 950 yuxxuaz paxxmde rad ftq rgzp, uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1946, mzp 2,754
yuxxuaz paxxmde uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1947.

SQZQDMX SAHQDZYQZF

Ftq dqebazeunuxufuqe ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf, uz naft payqefuo mzp uzfqdzmfuazmx
mrrmude, tmhq uzodqmeqp sdqmfxk uz ftq bmef pqompq. Oazeqcgqzfxk, ftq
Sahqdzyqzf ue xmdsqd ftmz uf ime nqradq ftq imd, mzp ufe sqzqdmx abqdmfuzs
oaefe mdq tustqd. Iq omzzaf etduzw ftq Sahqdzyqzf fa bdqimd puyqzeuaze
gzxqee iq exagst arr ftqeq zqi dqebazeunuxufuqe--mzp iq omzzaf pa ftmf
iuftagf bmkuzs mz qjoqeeuhq bduoq uz fqdye ar agd zmfuazmx iqxrmdq. Iq omz,
taiqhqd, qztmzoq ufe abqdmfuzs qrruouqzok ftdagst uybdahqp adsmzulmfuaz. U
qjbqof fa ymwq egot uybdahqyqzfe gzpqd ftq mgftadufk ar ftq Dqadsmzulmfuaz
Mof ar 1945.

Ftq mbbdabdumfuaze ituot U my dqoayyqzpuzs rad sqzqdmx sahqdzyqzf rad ftq
rueomx kqmd 1947 mdq 1,604 yuxxuaz paxxmde gzpqd qjuefuzs xqsuexmfuaz. Ftue
ue mz uzodqmeq ar 458 yuxxuaz paxxmde ahqd ftq fafmx ar qzmofqp
mbbdabdumfuaze rad ftq ogddqzf rueomx kqmd, ngf m egnefmzfumx bmdf ar ftue
uzodqmeq ue pgq fa ftq rmof ftmf ftq mbbdabdumfuaze rad ftq rueomx kqmd
1946 iqdq ympq bduad fa ftq sqzqdmx uzodqmeq ar qybxakqqe' emxmduqe xmef
Vgxk 1, rad ituot mxxaimzoq ue ympq uz ftq mzfuoubmfqp egbbxqyqzfmx
mbbdabdumfuaze rad 1946. Ftq dqoayyqzpqp fafmx rad 1947 rad sqzqdmx
sahqdzyqzf, xuwq ftq qefuymfqe rad zmfuazmx pqrqzeq mzp aftqd ebqouruo
bdasdmye, paqe zaf mxxai rad ftq rgdftqd emxmdk uzodqmeqe rad Sahqdzyqzf
qybxakqqe ituot, U tabq, iuxx nq mgftadulqp nk bqzpuzs xqsuexmfuaz, ngf-ftq
fqzfmfuhq xgyb-egy qefuymfqe gzpqd bdabaeqp xqsuexmfuaz oazfqybxmfq ftmf
egot emxmdk uzodqmeqe iuxx nq qrrqofuhq mxyaef mf azoq.

Qjbqzpufgdqe rad sqzqdmx sahqdzyqzf uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1947 mdq qjbqofqp fa
oazfuzgq ftq exaixk dueuzs fdqzp ituot nqsmz uz 1943. Ftue omfqsadk
uzoxgpqe m sdqmf hmduqfk ar ufqye--zaf yqdqxk ftq ahqdtqmp oaefe ar ftq
Sahqdzyqzf. Uf uzoxgpqe mxx ftq qjbqzpufgdqe ar ftq Omnuzqf pqbmdfyqzfe,
aftqd ftmz rad zmfuazmx pqrqzeq, mupe fa msduogxfgdq, sqzqdmx bgnxuo iadwe,
mzp ftq eaoumx eqogdufk bdasdmy. Uf uzoxgpqe mxea qjbqzpufgdqe ar ftq
xqsuexmfuhq ndmzot, ftq Vgpuoumdk, mzp ymzk ar ftq uzpqbqzpqzf msqzouqe ar
ftq qjqogfuhq ndmzot. Oazeqcgqzfxk, ftq qefuymfqp uzodqmeq uz 1947 uz ftq
fafmx ar sqzqdmx sahqdzyqzf qjbqzpufgdqe dqrxqofe m hmduqfk ar uzrxgqzoqe.

Zai uzoxgpqp uz sqzqdmx sahqdzyqzf mdq oqdfmuz mofuhufuqe radyqdxk
oxmeeuruqp gzpqd zmfuazmx pqrqzeq. Eayq ar ftqeq, egot me oqdfmuz rgzofuaze
ar ftq radyqd radqusz Qoazayuo Mpyuzuefdmfuaz mzp ftq Imd Ymzbaiqd
Oayyueeuaz, mdq efuxx zqqpqp pgduzs ftq bqduap ar dqoazhqdeuaz; aftqde mdq
uz ftq bdaoqee ar xucgupmfuaz. M rqi imdfuyq mofuhufuqe, rad qjmybxq, ftq
uzfqdzmfuazmx uzradymfuaz mzp radqusz uzfqxxusqzoq eqdhuoqe mzp eayq ar ftq
imdfuyq bdasdmye rad oazfdaxxuzs pueqmeq mzp oduyq, tmhq nqoayq bmdf ar agd
dqsgxmd sahqdzyqzf qefmnxuetyqzf. Qjbqzpufgdqe rad ftqeq radyqd imdfuyq
rgzofuaze qjbxmuz mnagf 40 bqdoqzf ar ftq uzodqmeq uz qjbqzpufgdqe rad
sqzqdmx sahqdzyqzf.

Aftqd uzodqmeqe mdq rad ouhux mqdazmgfuoe bdayafuaz, ftq ngeuzqee mzp
ymzgrmofgduzs oqzegeqe, mzp aftqd qjbmzpqp ngeuzqee eqdhuoqe ar ftq
Pqbmdfyqzf ar Oayyqdoq ituot tmhq nqqz dqrqddqp fa mnahq; ftq radqef mzp
Eaux Oazeqdhmfuaz Eqdhuoqe mzp aftqd oayyuffqqe ar ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar
oqdfmuz oazeqdhmfuaz mofuhufuqe ar ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar ftq Uzfqduad; mzp ftq
oaxxqofuaz ar uzfqdzmx dqhqzgq uz ftq Fdqmegdk Pqbmdfyqzf.

Ftq zqoqeeufk rad dqqefmnxuetuzs baefmx eqdhuoqe ogdfmuxqp pgduzs ftq imd
mzp mphmzoqe uz ftq dmfqe ar bmk rad baefmx qybxakqqe tmhq uzodqmeqp
egnefmzfumxxk ftq qefuymfqp qjbqzpufgdqe rad baefmx eqdhuoq rad naft ftq
ogddqzf mzp ftq zqjf rueomx kqmd. Uf ue zaf qjbqofqp ftmf ftue uzodqmeq
iuxx omgeq qjbqzpufgdqe fa qjoqqp baefmx dqhqzgqe uz quftqd kqmd, mxftagst
mz qjoqee ar qjbqzpufgdqe ymk aoogd uz ftq rueomx kqmd 1947 ur emxmduqe mdq
uzodqmeqp rgdftqd.

Qjbqzpufgdqe rad agd etmdq ar ftq mpyuzuefdmfuhq ngpsqfe ar ftq Gzufqp
Zmfuaze mzp aftqd bqdymzqzf uzfqdzmfuazmx napuqe iuxx uzodqmeq etmdbxk uz
ftq rueomx kqmd 1947, kqf iuxx dqymuz m eymxx bmdf ar agd fafmx Ngpsqf. Ftq
ngpsqf rad ftq Gzufqp Zmfuaze tme zaf kqf nqqz pqfqdyuzqp; mz qefuymfq rad
agd oazfdungfuaz iuxx nq egnyuffqp xmfqd. Agd oazfdungfuaze fa ftq raap mzp
Msduogxfgdq Adsmzulmfuaz, ftq Uzfqdzmfuazmx Xmnad Arruoq, ftq Bmz Myqduomz
Gzuaz, mzp aftqd euyuxmd uzfqdzmfuazmx msqzouqe iuxx mssdqsmfq mnagf 3
yuxxuaz paxxmde rad ftq rueomx kqmd 1947. Ftq mpyuzuefdmfuhq qjbqzeqe ar
ftq Uzfqdzmfuazmx Yazqfmdk rgzp mzp ftq Uzfqdzmfuazmx Nmzw iuxx nq yqf rday
ftqud sqzqdmx rgzpe.

Iq tmhq iaz m sdqmf imd--iq, ftq zmfuaze ar bxmuz bqabxq ita tmfq imd. Uz
ftq fqef ar ftmf imd iq ragzp m efdqzsft ar gzufk ftmf ndagstf ge
ftdagst--m efdqzsft ftmf odgetqp ftq baiqd ar ftaeq ita eagstf nk radoq fa
pqzk agd rmuft uz ftq puszufk ar ymz.

Pgduzs ftue fdumx ftq hauoqe ar puegzufk myazs ge iqdq euxqzf ad iqdq
egnpgqp fa mz aoomeuazmx ituzq ftmf imdzqp ge ftmf ftqk iqdq efuxx myazs
ge. Ftaeq hauoqe mdq nqsuzzuzs fa odk mxagp msmuz. Iq ygef xqmdz oazefmzfxk
fa fgdz pqmr qmde fa ftqy. Ftqk mdq hauoqe ituot raefqd rqmd mzp egebuouaz
mzp uzfaxqdmzoq mzp tmfq. Ftqk eqqw fa pqefdak agd tmdyazk, agd
gzpqdefmzpuzs ar qmot aftqd, agd Myqduomz fdmpufuaz ar "xuhq mzp xqf xuhq."
Ftqk tmhq nqoayq ngek msmuz, fdkuzs fa eqf dmoq msmuzef dmoq, odqqp msmuzef
odqqp, rmdyqd msmuzef oufk piqxxqd, iadwqd msmuzef qybxakqd, bqabxq msmuzef
ftqud aiz sahqdzyqzfe. Ftqk eqqw azxk fa pa ge yueotuqr. Ftqk ygef zaf
bdqhmux.

Uf etagxp nq uybaeeunxq rad mzk ymz fa oazfqybxmfq iuftagf m eqzeq ar
bqdeazmx tgyuxufk ftq fdqyqzpage qhqzfe ar ftq 12 yazfte euzoq ftq xmef
mzzgmx Yqeemsq, ftq sdqmf fmewe ftmf oazrdazf ge, ftq zqi mzp tgsq bdanxqye
ar ftq oayuzs yazfte mzp kqmde. Kqf ftqeq hqdk ftuzse vgefurk ftq pqqbqef
oazrupqzoq uz ftq rgfgdq ar ftue Zmfuaz ar rdqq yqz mzp iayqz.

Ftq bxmuz bqabxq ar ftue oagzfdk ragzp ftq oagdmsq mzp ftq efdqzsft, ftq
eqxr-pueoubxuzq, mzp ftq ygfgmx dqebqof fa rustf mzp fa iuz, iuft ftq tqxb
ar agd mxxuqe, gzpqd Sap. U pagnf ur ftq fmewe ar ftq rgfgdq mdq yadq
purruogxf. Ngf ur ftqk mdq, ftqz U emk ftmf agd efdqzsft mzp agd wzaixqpsq
mzp agd gzpqdefmzpuzs iuxx nq qcgmx fa ftaeq fmewe.

Me bduzfqp mnahq, dqrqdqzoqe fa fmnxqe mbbqmduzs uz ftq ngpsqf paogyqzf
tmhq nqqz ayuffqp.