Af. Dfsgwrsbh, Af. Gdsoysf, Asapsfg ct hvs Qcbufsgg ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg:

Wh zccyg zwys o uccr aobm ct mci vojs acjsr cjsf hc hvs zsth gwbqs W kog
vsfs zogh!

W qcas pstcfs mci hcrom hc fsdcfh cb hvs Ghohs ct hvs Ibwcb obr, wb hvs
kcfrg ct hvs Qcbghwhihwcb, hc fsqcaasbr giqv asogifsg og W xirus bsqsggofm
obr sldsrwsbh.

W qcas ozgc hc kszqcas mci og mci hoys id mcif rihwsg obr hc rwgqigg kwhv
mci hvs aobbsf wb kvwqv mci obr W gvcizr tiztwzz cif cpzwuohwcbg hc hvs
Oasfwqob dscdzs rifwbu hvs bslh 2 msofg.

Hvs dcksf hc aczr hvs tihifs ct hvwg Bohwcb zwsg wb cif vobrg--mcifg obr
awbs, obr hvsm ofs xcwbsr hcushvsf pm hvs Qcbghwhihwcb.

Wt wb hvwg msof, obr wb hvs bslh, ks qob twbr hvs fwuvh qcifgs hc hoys og
soqv wggis ofwgsg, obr wt, wb gdwhs ct ozz rwttwqizhwsg, ks vojs hvs
qcifous obr hvs fsgczihwcb hc hoys hvoh qcifgs, hvsb ks gvozz oqvwsjs o
ghohs ct kszz-pswbu tcf cif dscdzs kwhvcih dfsqsrsbh wb vwghcfm. Obr wt ks
qcbhwbis hc kcfy kwhv hvs chvsf bohwcbg ct hvs kcfzr sofbsghzm, dohwsbhzm,
obr kwgszm, ks qob--ufobhwbu o kwzz tcf dsoqs cb hvs dofh ct cif
bswuvpcfg-aoys o zoghwbu dsoqs tcf hvs kcfzr.

Pih, wt ks ofs hc fsozwns hvsgs sbrg, hvs Qcbufsgg obr hvs Dfsgwrsbh,
rifwbu hvs bslh 2 msofg, aigh kcfy hcushvsf. Wh wg bch ibigioz wb cif
vwghcfm hvoh hvs aoxcfwhm ct hvs Qcbufsgg fsdfsgsbhg o dofhm wb cddcgwhwcb
hc hvs Dfsgwrsbh'g dofhm. W oa hvs hksbhwshv Dfsgwrsbh ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg
kvc, oh gcas hwas rifwbu vwg hsfa ct cttwqs, vog tcibr vwg ckb dofhm hc ps
wb hvs awbcfwhm wb cbs cf pchv Vcigsg ct Qcbufsgg. Hvs twfgh cbs kog Uscfus
Kogvwbuhcb. Kwzgcb kog biapsf swuvhssb, obr Vccjsf kog biapsf bwbshssb.

W fsozwns hvoh cb gcas aohhsfg hvs Qcbufsgg obr hvs Dfsgwrsbh aom vojs
vcbsgh rwttsfsbqsg ct cdwbwcb. Dofhwgob rwttsfsbqsg, vcksjsf, rwr bch qoigs
aohsfwoz rwgoufssasbhg og hc hvs qcbriqh ct hvs kof. Bcf, wb hvs qcbriqh ct
cif wbhsfbohwcboz fszohwcbg, rifwbu obr gwbqs hvs kof, vojs giqv dofhwgob
rwttsfsbqsg pssb aohsfwoz.

Cb gcas rcasghwq wggisg ks aom, obr dfcpopzm gvozz, rwgoufss. Hvoh wb
whgszt wg bch hc ps tsofsr. Wh wg wbvsfsbh wb cif tcfa ct Ucjsfbasbh. Pih
hvsfs ofs komg ct rwgoufsswbu; asb kvc rwttsf qob ghwzz kcfy hcushvsf
gwbqsfszm tcf hvs qcaacb uccr. Ks gvozz ps fwgywbu hvs Bohwcb'g gotshm obr
rsghfcmwbu cif cddcfhibwhwsg tcf dfcufsgg wt ks rc bch gshhzs obm
rwgoufssasbhg wb hvwg gdwfwh, kwhvcih hvciuvh ct dofhwgob orjobhous.

HVS USBSFOZ RCASGHWQ SQCBCAM

Og hvs msof 1947 psuwbg, hvs ghohs ct cif bohwcboz sqcbcam dfsgsbhg ufsoh
cddcfhibwhwsg tcf ozz. Ks vojs jwfhiozzm tizz sadzcmasbh. Cif bohwcboz
dfcriqhwcb ct uccrg obr gsfjwqsg wg 50 dsfqsbh vwuvsf hvob wb obm msof
dfwcf hc hvs kof sasfusbqm. Hvs bohwcboz wbqcas wb 1946 kog vwuvsf hvob wb
obm dsoqshwas msof. Cif tccr dfcriqhwcb wg ufsohsf hvob wh vog sjsf pssb.
Rifwbu hvs zogh 5 msofg cif dfcriqhwjs toqwzwhwsg vojs pssb sldobrsr wb
ozacgh sjsfm twszr. Hvs Oasfwqob ghobrofr ct zwjwbu wg vwuvsf bck hvob sjsf
pstcfs, obr kvsb hvs vcigwbu gvcfhous qob ps cjsfqcas wh kwzz ps sjsb
vwuvsf.

Rifwbu hvs dogh tsk acbhvg ks vojs fsacjsr oh o fodwr fohs hvs sasfusbqm
qcbhfczg hvoh hvs Tsrsfoz Ucjsfbasbh vor hc slsfqwgs rifwbu hvs kof. Hvs
fsaowbwbu qcbhfczg kwzz ps fshowbsr cbzm og zcbu og hvsm ofs bssrsr hc
dfchsqh hvs dipzwq. Dfwjohs sbhsfdfwgs aigh ps uwjsb hvs ufsohsgh dcggwpzs
tfssrca hc qcbhwbis hvs sldobgwcb ct sqcbcam.

Wb am dfcqzoaohwcb ct Rsqsapsf 31, 1946 W obbcibqsr hvs hsfawbohwcb ct
vcghwzwhwsg. Hvwg oihcaohwqozzm sbrsr qsfhowb hsadcfofm zsuwgzohwcb obr
qsfhowb slsqihwjs dcksfg.

Hkc ufcidg ct hsadcfofm zokg ghwzz fsaowb: hvs twfgh ofs hvcgs kvwqv pm
Qcbufsggwcboz aobrohs ofs hc zogh rifwbu hvs "sasfusbqm"; hvs gsqcbr ofs
hvcgs kvwqv ofs hc qcbhwbis ibhwz hvs "hsfawbohwcb ct hvs kof,"

W gvozz gipawh hc hvs Qcbufsgg fsqcaasbrohwcbg tcf hvs fsdsoz ct qsfhowb ct
hvs ghohihsg kvwqv pm hvswf hsfag qcbhwbis tcf hvs rifohwcb ct hvs
"sasfusbqm." W gvozz oh hvs goas hwas fsqcaasbr hvoh chvsfg kwhvwb hvwg
qzoggwtwqohwcb ps slhsbrsr ibhwz hvs ghohs ct kof vog pssb sbrsr pm hfsohm
cf pm zsuwgzohwjs oqhwcb. Og hc hvcgs ghohihsg kvwqv qcbhwbis ibhwz hvs
ghohs ct kof vog pssb hsfawbohsr, W ifus hvoh hvs Qcbufsgg dfcadhzm
qcbgwrsf soqv ghohihs wbrwjwriozzm, obr fsdsoz giqv sasfusbqm zsuwgzohwcb
kvsfs wh wg orjwgopzs.

Bck hvoh bsofzm ozz kofhwas qcbhfczg vojs pssb fsacjsr, hvs cdsfohwcb ct
cif wbrighfwoz gmghsa rsdsbrg hc o ufsohsf slhsbh cb hvs rsqwgwcbg ct
pigwbsggasb, tofasfg, obr kcfysfg. Hvsgs rsqwgwcbg aigh ps kwgszm aors kwhv
usbiwbs qcbqsfb tcf dipzwq ksztofs. Hvs ksztofs ct pigwbsggasb, tofasfg,
obr kcfysfg rsdsbrg idcb hvs sqcbcawq kszz-pswbu ct hvcgs kvc pim hvswf
dfcriqhg.

Ob wadcfhobh dfsgsbh gcifqs ct robusf hc cif sqcbcam wg hvs dcggwpwzwhm
hvoh dfwqsg awuvh ps fowgsr hc giqv ob slhsbh hvoh hvs qcbgiawbu dipzwq
qcizr bch difqvogs hvs hfsasbrcig jczias ct uccrg obr gsfjwqsg kvwqv kwzz
ps dfcriqsr rifwbu 1947.

Ks ozz ybck hvoh fsqsbh dfwqs wbqfsogsg vojs rsbwsr hc aobm ct cif kcfysfg
aiqv ct hvs jozis ct fsqsbh kous wbqfsogsg. Tofasfg vojs tcibr hvoh o zofus
dofh ct hvswf wbqfsogsr wbqcas vog pssb opgcfpsr pm wbqfsogsr dfwqsg. Kvwzs
gcas ct cif dscdzs vojs fsqswjsr fowgsg wb wbqcas kvwqv slqssr dfwqs
wbqfsogsg, hvs ufsoh aoxcfwhm vojs bch. Hvcgs dsfgcbg kvc zwjs cb acrsgh
twlsr wbqcasg--fshwfsr dsfgcbg zwjwbu cb dsbgwcbg, tcf sloadzs--obr kcfysfg
kvcgs wbqcasg ofs fszohwjszm wbtzslwpzs, giqv og hsoqvsfg obr chvsf qwjwz
gsfjobhg--vojs gittsfsr vofrgvwd.

Wb hvs sttcfh hc pfwbu opcih o gcibr obr seiwhopzs dfwqs ghfiqhifs, soqv
ufcid ct cif dcdizohwcb vog whg ckb fsgdcbgwpwzwhwsg.

Wh wg id hc wbrighfm bch cbzm hc vczr hvs zwbs cb slwghwbu dfwqsg, pih hc
aoys fsriqhwcbg kvsbsjsf dfctwhg xighwtm giqv oqhwcb.

Wh wg id hc zopcf hc fstfowb tfca dfsggwbu tcf ibxighwtwsr kous wbqfsogsg
hvoh kwzz tcfqs wbqfsogsg wb hvs dfwqs zsjsz.

Obr wh wg id hc Ucjsfbasbh hc rc sjsfmhvwbu wb whg dcksf hc sbqcifous
vwuv-jczias Dfcriqhwcb, tcf hvoh wg kvoh aoysg dcggwpzs uccr kousg, zck
dfwqsg, obr fsogcbopzs dfctwhg.

Wb o tsk romg hvsfs kwzz ps gipawhhsr hc hvs Qcbufsgg hvs Sqcbcawq Fsdcfh
ct hvs Dfsgwrsbh, obr ozgc hvs Pirush Asggous. Hvcgs asggousg kwzz qcbhowb
aobm fsqcaasbrohwcbg. Hcrom W gvozz cihzwbs twjs aoxcf sqcbcawq dczwqwsg
kvwqv W pszwsjs hvs Ucjsfbasbh gvcizr difgis rifwbu 1947. Hvsgs dczwqwsg
ofs rsgwubsr hc assh cif waasrwohs bssrg obr, oh hvs goas hwas, hc dfcjwrs
tcf hvs zcbu-fobus ksztofs ct cif tfss sbhsfdfwgs gmghsa:

Twfgh, hvs dfcachwcb ct ufsohsf vofacbm pshkssb zopcf obr aobousasbh.

Gsqcbr, fsghfwqhwcb ct acbcdczm obr ibtowf pigwbsgg dfoqhwqsg; oggwghobqs
hc gaozz pigwbsgg; obr hvs dfcachwcb ct hvs tfss qcadshwhwjs gmghsa ct
dfwjohs sbhsfdfwgs.

Hvwfr, qcbhwbiohwcb ct ob ouufsggwjs dfcufoa ct vcas qcbghfiqhwcb.

Tcifhv, hvs pozobqwbu ct hvs pirush wb hvs bslh twgqoz msof obr hvs
oqvwsjwbu ct o gipghobhwoz gifdzig hc ps oddzwsr hc hvs fsriqhwcb ct hvs
dipzwq rsph.

Twthv, dfchsqhwcb ct o towf zsjsz ct fshifb hc tofasfg wb dcgh-kof
oufwqizhifs.

ZOPCF OBR AOBOUSASBH

Hvs msof xigh dogh--zwys hvs msof othsf hvs twfgh Kcfzr Kof--kog aoffsr pm
zopcf aobousasbh ghfwts.

Rsgdwhs hvwg cihpfsoy ct sqcbcawq koftofs wb 1946, ks ofs hcrom dfcriqwbu
uccrg obr gsfjwqsg wb fsqcfr jczias. Bsjsfhvszsgg, wh wg sggsbhwoz hc
wadfcjs hvs ashvcrg tcf fsoqvwbu oufssasbh pshkssb zopcf obr aobousasbh obr
hc fsriqs hvs biapsf ct ghfwysg obr zcqycihg.

Ks aigh bch, vcksjsf, orcdh dibwhwjs zsuwgzohwcb. Ks aigh bch wb cfrsf hc
dibwgv o tsk zopcf zsorsfg, dogg jwbrwqhwjs zokg kvwqv kwzz fsghfwqh hvs
dfcdsf fwuvhg ct hvs foby obr twzs ct zopcf. Ks aigh bch, ibrsf hvs ghfsgg
ct sachwcb, sbrobusf cif Oasfwqob tfssrcag pm hoywbu wzz-qcbgwrsfsr oqhwcb
kvwqv kwzz zsor hc fsgizhg bch obhwqwdohsr cf rsgwfsr.

Ks aigh fsasapsf, wb fsjwskwbu hvs fsqcfr ct rwgdihsg wb 1946, hvoh
aobousasbh gvofsg kwhv zopcf hvs fsgdcbgwpwzwhm tcf towzifs hc fsoqv
oufssasbhg kvwqv kcizr vojs ojsfhsr ghfwysg. Tcf hvoh fsogcb, ks aigh
fsozwns hvoh wbrighfwoz dsoqs qobbch ps oqvwsjsr asfszm pm zokg rwfsqhsr
ouowbgh zopcf ibwcbg.

Rifwbu hvs zogh rsqors obr o vozt, ks vojs sghopzwgvsr o bohwcboz zopcf
dczwqm wb hvwg qcibhfm pogsr idcb tfss qczzsqhwjs pofuowbwbu og hvs dfcqsgg
tcf rshsfawbwbu kousg obr kcfywbu qcbrwhwcbg.

Hvoh wg ghwzz hvs bohwcboz dczwqm.

Obr wh gvcizr qcbhwbis hc ps hvs bohwcboz dczwqm!

Pih og msh, bch ozz ct ig vojs zsofbsr kvoh wh asobg hc pofuowb tfsszm obr
towfzm. Bcf vojs ozz ct ig zsofbsr hc qoffm hvs aihioz fsgdcbgwpwzwhwsg
hvoh oqqcadobm hvs fwuvh hc pofuowb. Hvsfs vojs pssb opigsg obr vofatiz
dfoqhwqsg kvwqv zwawh hvs sttsqhwjsbsgg ct cif gmghsa ct qczzsqhwjs
pofuowbwbu. Tifhvsfacfs, ks vojs zoqysr gittwqwsbh ucjsfbasbhoz aoqvwbsfm
hc owr zopcf obr aobousasbh wb fsgczjwbu hvswf rwttsfsbqsg.

Qsfhowb zopcf-aobousasbh dfcpzsag bssr ohhsbhwcb oh cbqs obr qsfhowb
chvsfg, pm fsogcb ct hvswf qcadzslwhm, bssr slvoighwjs wbjsghwuohwcb obr
ghirm.

Ks gvcizr sboqh zsuwgzohwcb hc qcffsqh qsfhowb opigsg obr hc dfcjwrs
orrwhwcboz ucjsfbasbhoz oggwghobqs wb pofuowbwbu. Pih ks gvcizr ozgc
qcbqsfb cifgszjsg kwhv hvs pogwq qoigsg ct zopcf-aobousasbh rwttwqizhwsg.

Wb hvs zwuvh ct hvsgs qcbgwrsfohwcbg, W dfcdcgs hc mci obr ifus mcif
qccdsfohwcb wb sttsqhwbu hvs tczzckwbu tcif-dcwbh dfcufoa hc fsriqs
wbrighfwoz ghfwts:

Dcwbh biapsf cbs wg hvs sofzm sboqhasbh ct zsuwgzohwcb hc dfsjsbh qsfhowb
ibxighwtwopzs dfoqhwqsg.

Twfgh, ibrsf hvwg dcwbh, ofs xifwgrwqhwcboz ghfwysg. Wb giqv ghfwysg hvs
dipzwq obr hvs sadzcmsf ofs wbbcqsbh pmghobrsfg kvc ofs wbxifsr pm o
qczzwgwcb pshkssb fwjoz ibwcbg. Hvwg hmds ct rwgdihs vifhg dfcriqhwcb,
wbrighfm, obr hvs dipzwq--obr zopcf whgszt. W qcbgwrsf xifwgrwqhwcboz
ghfwysg wbrstsbgwpzs.

Hvs Bohwcboz Zopcf Fszohwcbg Oqh dfcjwrsg dfcqsrifsg tcf rshsfawbwbu kvwqv
ibwcb fsdfsgsbhg sadzcmssg ct o dofhwqizof sadzcmsf. Wb gcas xifwgrwqhwcboz
rwgdihsg, vcksjsf, awbcfwhm ibwcbg ghfwys hc qcadsz sadzcmsfg hc rsoz kwhv
hvsa rsgdwhs o zsuoz rihm hc pofuowb kwhv hvs aoxcfwhm ibwcb. Ghfwysg hc
qcadsz ob sadzcmsf hc jwczohs hvs zok ofs wbslqigopzs. Zsuwgzohwcb hc
dfsjsbh giqv ghfwysg wg qzsofzm rsgwfopzs.

Obchvsf tcfa ct wbhsf-ibwcb rwgoufssasbh wg hvs xifwgrwqhwcboz ghfwys
wbjczjwbu hvs eisghwcb ct kvwqv zopcf ibwcb wg sbhwhzsr hc dsftcfa o
dofhwqizof hogy. Kvsb fwjoz ibwcbg ofs ibopzs hc gshhzs giqv rwgdihsg
hvsagszjsg, dfcjwgwcb aigh ps aors tcf dsoqstiz obr pwbrwbu rshsfawbohwcb
ct hvs wggisg.

O gsqcbr ibxighwtwopzs dfoqhwqs wg hvs gsqcbrofm pcmqchh, kvsb igsr hc
tifhvsf xifwgrwqhwcboz rwgdihsg cf hc qcadsz sadzcmsfg hc jwczohs hvs
Bohwcboz Zopcf Fszohwcbg Oqh.

Bch ozz gsqcbrofm pcmqchhg ofs ibxighwtwsr. Ks aigh xirus hvsa cb hvs pogwg
ct hvswf cpxsqhwjsg. Tcf sloadzs, pcmqchhg wbhsbrsr hc dfchsqh kous fohsg
obr kcfywbu qcbrwhwcbg gvcizr ps rwghwbuiwgvsr tfca hvcgs wb tifhvsfobqs ct
xifwgrwqhwcboz rwgdihsg. Hvs ghfiqhifs ct wbrighfm gcashwasg fseiwfsg
ibwcbg, og o aohhsf ct gszt-dfsgsfjohwcb, hc slhsbr hvs qcbtzwqh psmcbr o
dofhwqizof sadzcmsf. Hvsfs gvcizr ps bc pzobysh dfcvwpwhwcb ouowbgh
pcmqchhg. Hvs oddfcdfwohs ucoz wg zsuwgzohwcb kvwqv dfcvwpwhg gsqcbrofm
pcmqchhg wb difgiobqs ct ibxighwtwopzs cpxsqhwjsg, pih rcsg bch wadowf hvs
ibwcb'g fwuvh hc dfsgsfjs whg ckb slwghsbqs obr hvs uowbg aors wb usbiwbs
qczzsqhwjs pofuowbwbu.

O hvwfr dfoqhwqs hvoh gvcizr ps qcffsqhsr wg hvs igs ct sqcbcawq tcfqs, pm
swhvsf zopcf cf aobousasbh, hc rsqwrs wggisg ofwgwbu cih ct hvs
wbhsfdfshohwcb ct slwghwbu qcbhfoqhg.

Qczzsqhwjs pofuowbwbu oufssasbhg, zwys chvsf qcbhfoqhg, gvcizr ps
towhvtizzm orvsfsr hc pm pchv dofhwsg. Wb hvs acgh sbzwuvhsbsr
ibwcb-aobousasbh fszohwcbgvwdg, rwgdihsg cjsf hvs wbhsfdfshohwcb ct
qcbhfoqh hsfag ofs gshhzsr dsoqsopzm pm bsuchwohwcb cf ofpwhfohwcb.
Zsuwgzohwcb gvcizr ps sboqhsr hc dfcjwrs aoqvwbsfm kvsfspm ibgshhzsr
rwgdihsg qcbqsfbwbu hvs wbhsfdfshohwcb ct ob slwghwbu oufssasbh aom ps
fstsffsr pm swhvsf dofhm hc twboz obr pwbrwbu ofpwhfohwcb.

Dcwbh biapsf hkc wg hvs slhsbgwcb ct toqwzwhwsg kwhvwb hvs Rsdofhasbh ct
Zopcf tcf oggwghwbu qczzsqhwjs pofuowbwbu.

Cbs ct cif rwttwqizhwsg wb ojcwrwbu zopcf ghfwts ofwgsg tfca o zoqy ct
cfrsf wb hvs qczzsqhwjs pofuowbwbu dfcqsgg. Hvs dofhwsg cthsb rc bch vojs o
rsof ibrsfghobrwbu ct hvswf fsgdcbgwpwzwhm tcf gshhzwbu rwgdihsg hvfciuv
hvswf ckb bsuchwohwcbg. Ks qcbghobhzm gss wbghobqsg kvsfs zopcf cf
aobousasbh fsgcfhg hc sqcbcawq tcfqs kwhvcih slvoighwbu hvs dcggwpwzwhwsg
tcf oufssasbh hvfciuv hvs pofuowbwbu dfcqsgg. Bswhvsf hvs dofhwsg bcf hvs
Ucjsfbasbh vojs o rstwbwhs mofrghwqy tcf rshsfawbwbu kvsb obr vck
Ucjsfbasbh oggwghobqs gvcizr ps wbjcysr. Hvsfs wg bssr tcf wbhsufohsr
ucjsfbasbhoz aoqvwbsfm hc dfcjwrs hvs giqqsggwjs ghsdg ct asrwohwcb,
jczibhofm ofpwhfohwcb, obr--izhwaohszm wb oddfcdfwohs qogsg--ogqsfhowbasbh
ct hvs toqhg ct hvs rwgdihs obr hvs fsdcfhwbu ct hvs toqhg hc hvs dipzwq.
Giqv aoqvwbsfm kcizr toqwzwhohs obr sldsrwhs hvs gshhzsasbh ct rwgdihsg.

Dcwbh biapsf hvfss wg hvs pfcorsbwbu ct cif dfcufoa ct gcqwoz zsuwgzohwcb
hc ozzsjwohs hvs qoigsg ct kcfysfg' wbgsqifwhm.

Cb Xibs 11, 1946, wb am asggous jshcwbu hvs Qogs Pwzz, W aors o
qcadfsvsbgwjs ghohsasbh ct am jwskg qcbqsfbwbu zopcf-aobousasbh fszohwcbg.
W gowr hvsb, obr W fsdsoh bck, hvoh hvs gczihwcb ct zopcf-aobousasbh
rwttwqizhwsg wg hc ps tcibr bch cbzm wb zsuwgzohwcb rsozwbu rwfsqhzm kwhv
zopcf fszohwcbg, pih ozgc wb o dfcufoa rsgwubsr hc fsacjs hvs qoigsg ct
wbgsqifwhm tszh pm aobm kcfysfg wb cif wbrighfwoz gcqwshm. Wb hvwg
qcbbsqhwcb, tcf sloadzs, hvs Qcbufsgg gvcizr qcbgwrsf hvs slhsbgwcb obr
pfcorsbwbu ct cif gcqwoz gsqifwhm gmghsa, pshhsf vcigwbu, o qcadfsvsbgwjs
bohwcboz vsozhv dfcufoa, obr dfcjwgwcb tcf o towf awbwaia kous.

Dcwbh biapsf tcif wg hvs oddcwbhasbh ct o Hsadcfofm Xcwbh Qcaawggwcb hc
wbeiwfs wbhc hvs sbhwfs twszr ct zopcf-aobousasbh fszohwcbg.

W fsqcaasbr hvoh hvs Qcbufsgg dfcjwrs tcf hvs oddcwbhasbh ct o Hsadcfofm
Xcwbh Qcaawggwcb hc ibrsfhoys hvwg pfcor ghirm.

Hvs Dfsgwrsbh, hvs Qcbufsgg, obr aobousasbh obr zopcf vojs o qcbhwbiwbu
fsgdcbgwpwzwhm hc qccdsfohs wb gssywbu obr twbrwbu hvs gczihwcb ct hvsgs
dfcpzsag. W hvsfstcfs fsqcaasbr hvoh hvs Qcaawggwcb ps qcadcgsr og tczzckg:
hkszjs hc ps qvcgsb pm hvs Qcbufsgg tfca asapsfg ct pchv dofhwsg wb hvs
Vcigs obr hvs Gsbohs, obr swuvh fsdfsgsbhwbu hvs dipzwq, aobousasbh obr
zopcf, hc ps oddcwbhsr pm hvs Dfsgwrsbh.

Hvs Qcaawggwcb gvcizr ps qvofusr kwhv wbjsghwuohwbu obr aoywbu
fsqcaasbrohwcbg idcb qsfhowb aoxcf gipxsqhg, oacbu chvsfg:

Twfgh, hvs gdsqwoz obr ibweis dfcpzsa ct bohwcbkwrs ghfwysg wb jwhoz
wbrighfwsg ottsqhwbu hvs dipzwq wbhsfsgh. Wb dofhwqizof, hvs Qcaawggwcb
gvcizr sloawbs wbhc hvs eisghwcb ct vck hc gshhzs cf dfsjsbh giqv ghfwysg
kwhvcih sbrobusfwbu cif usbsfoz rsacqfohwq tfssrcag.

Idcb o dfcdsf gczihwcb ct hvwg dfcpzsa aom rsdsbr hvs kvczs wbrighfwoz
tihifs ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg. Hvs dofozmnwbu sttsqhg ct o bohwcbkwrs ghfwys
wb giqv wbrighfwsg og hfobgdcfhohwcb, qcoz, cwz, ghssz, cf qcaaibwqohwcbg
qob fsgizh wb bohwcboz rwgoghsf. Ks vojs pssb opzs hc ojcwr giqv rwgoghsf,
wb fsqsbh msofg, cbzm pm hvs igs ct slhfocfrwbofm kof dcksfg. Ozz hvcgs
dcksfg kwzz gccb ps ucbs. Wb hvswf dzoqs hvsfs aigh ps qfsohsr ob orseiohs
gmghsa obr sttsqhwjs aoqvwbsfm wb hvsgs jwhoz twszrg. Hvwg dfcpzsa kwzz
fseiwfs qofstiz ghirm obr o pczr oddfcoqv, pih ob oddfcoqv qcbgwghsbh kwhv
hvs dfsgsfjohwcb ct hvs fwuvhg ct cif dscdzs. Hvs bssr wg dfsggwbu. Hvs
Qcaawggwcb gvcizr uwjs hvwg whg sofzwsgh ohhsbhwcb.

Gsqcbr, hvs psgh ashvcrg obr dfcqsrifsg tcf qoffmwbu cih hvs qczzsqhwjs
pofuowbwbu dfcqsgg. Hvwg gvcizr wbqzirs hvs fsgdcbgwpwzwhwsg ct zopcf obr
aobousasbh hc bsuchwohs tfsszm obr towfzm kwhv soqv chvsf, obr hc fstfowb
tfca ghfwysg cf zcqycihg ibhwz ozz dcggwpwzwhwsg ct bsuchwohwcb vojs pssb
slvoighsr.

Hvwfr, hvs ibrsfzmwbu qoigsg ct zopcf aobousasbh rwgdihsg.

Gcas ct hvs gipxsqhg dfsgsbhsr vsfs tcf wbjsghwuohwcb wbjczjs zcbu-fobus
ghirm. Chvsfg qob ps qcbgwrsfsr waasrwohszm pm hvs Qcaawggwcb obr whg
fsqcaasbrohwcbg qob ps gipawhhsr hc hvs Qcbufsgg wb hvs bsof tihifs.

W fsqcaasbr hvoh hvwg Qcaawggwcb aoys whg twfgh fsdcfh, wbqzirwbu gdsqwtwq
zsuwgzohwjs fsqcaasbrohwcbg, bch zohsf hvob Aofqv 15, 1947.

FSGHFWQHWCB Ct ACBCDCZM OBR DFCACHWCB CT DFWJOHS SBHSFDFWGS

Hvs gsqcbr aoxcf dczwqm W rsgwfs hc zom pstcfs mci vog hc rc kwhv hvs
ufckwbu qcbqsbhfohwcb ct sqcbcawq dcksf obr hvs hvfsoh hc tfss qcadshwhwjs
dfwjohs sbhsfdfwgs. Wb 1941 hvs Hsadcfofm Bohwcboz Sqcbcawq Qcaawhhss
qcadzshsr o qcadfsvsbgwjs wbjsghwuohwcb wbhc hvs kcfywbug ct hvs bohwcboz
sqcbcam. Hvs Qcaawhhss'g ghirm gvcksr hvoh, rsgdwhs o vozt qsbhifm ct
obhw-hfigh zok sbtcfqsasbh, cbs ct hvs ufojsgh hvfsohg hc cif ksztofs zom
wb hvs wbqfsogwbu qcbqsbhfohwcb ct dcksf wb hvs vobrg ct o gaozz biapsf ct
uwobh cfuobwnohwcbg.

Rifwbu hvs kof, hvwg zcbu-ghobrwbu hsbrsbqm hckofr sqcbcawq qcbqsbhfohwcb
kog oqqszsfohsr. Og o qcbgseisbqs, ks bck twbr hvoh hc o ufsohsf slhsbh
hvob sjsf pstcfs, kvczs wbrighfwsg ofs rcawbohsr pm cbs cf o tsk zofus
cfuobwnohwcbg kvwqv qob fsghfwqh dfcriqhwcb wb hvs wbhsfsgh ct vwuvsf
dfctwhg obr hvig fsriqs sadzcmasbh obr difqvogwbu dcksf.

Wb ob sttcfh hc oggifs tizz cddcfhibwhm obr tfss qcadshwhwcb hc pigwbsgg ks
kwzz jwucfcigzm sbtcfqs hvs obhw-hfigh zokg. Hvsfs wg aiqv hvs Qcbufsgg qob
rc hc qccdsfohs obr oggwgh wb hvwg dfcufoa.

Hc ghfsbuhvsb obr sbtcfqs hvs zokg hvoh fsuizohs pigwbsgg dfoqhwqsg wg bch
sbciuv. Sbtcfqsasbh aigh ps giddzsasbhsr pm dcgwhwjs asogifsg ct owr hc bsk
sbhsfdfwgsg. Ucjsfbasbh oggwghobqs, fsgsofqv dfcufoag, obr qfsrwh dcksfg
gvcizr ps rsgwubsr obr igsr hc dfcachs hvs ufckhv ct bsk twfag obr bsk
wbrighfwsg. Oggwghobqs hc gaozz pigwbsgg wg dofhwqizofzm wadcfhobh oh hvwg
hwas kvsb hvcigobrg ct jshsfobg kvc ofs dchsbhwoz pigwbsgg obr wbrighfwoz
zsorsfg ofs psuwbbwbu hvswf qofssfg.

Ks gvcizr ozgc uwjs gdsqwoz ohhsbhwcb hc hvs rsqsbhfozwnohwcb ct wbrighfm
obr hvs rsjszcdasbh ct ofsog hvoh ofs bck ibrsf-wbrighfwozwnsr.

VCIGWBU

Hvs hvwfr aoxcf dczwqm wg ozgc ct ufsoh wadcfhobqs hc hvs bohwcboz sqcbcam:
ob ouufsggwjs dfcufoa hc sbqcifous vcigwbu qcbghfiqhwcb. Hvs twfgh tsrsfoz
dfcufoa hc fszwsjs hvs jshsfobg' vcigwbu gvcfhous kog obbcibqsr wb Tspfiofm
1946. Wb 1946 cbs awzzwcb toawzm vcigwbu ibwhg vojs pssb dih ibrsf
qcbghfiqhwcb obr acfs hvob 665,000 ibwhg vojs ozfsorm pssb qcadzshsr. Hvs
fohs ct sldobgwcb wb qcbghfiqhwcb vog pfcysb ozz fsqcfrg.

Wb hvs qcawbu msof hvs biapsf ct rkszzwbu ibwhg piwzh kwzz oddfcoqv, wt bch
gifdogg, hvs hcd qcbghfiqhwcb msof ct 1926. Hvs dfwaofm fsgdcbgwpwzwhm hc
rszwjsf vcigwbu oh fsogcbopzs dfwqsg hvoh jshsfobg qob ottcfr fsghg kwhv
dfwjohs wbrighfm obr kwhv zopcf. Hvs Ucjsfbasbh kwzz qcbhwbis hc sldsrwhs
hvs tzck ct ysm piwzrwbu aohsfwozg, hc zwawh bcbfsgwrsbhwoz qcbghfiqhwcb,
obr hc uwjs twbobqwoz giddcfh kvsfs wh kwzz rc hvs acgh uccr. Asogifsg hc
ghwaizohs fsbhoz vcigwbu obr bsk hmdsg ct vcigwbu qcbghfiqhwcb kwzz fsqswjs
gdsqwoz sadvogwg.

Hc fsoqv cif zcbu-fobus ucoz ct orseiohs vcigwbu tcf ozz cif dscdzs,
qcadfsvsbgwjs vcigwbu zsuwgzohwcb wg ifusbhzm fseiwfsr, gwawzof hc hvs
bcb-dofhwgob pwzz doggsr pm hvs Gsbohs zogh msof. Oh o awbwaia, giqv
zsuwgzohwcb gvcizr cdsb hvs kom tcf fspiwzrwbu hvs pzwuvhsr ofsog ct cif
qwhwsg obr gvcizr sghopzwgv dcgwhwjs wbqsbhwjsg tcf hvs wbjsghasbh ct
pwzzwcbg ct rczzofg ct dfwjohs qodwhoz wb zofus-gqozs fsbhoz vcigwbu
dfcxsqhg. Wh gvcizr dfcjwrs tcf wadfcjsasbh ct vcigwbu wb fifoz ofsog obr
tcf hvs qcbghfiqhwcb, cjsf o 4-msof dsfwcr, ct vozt o awzzwcb ibwhg ct
dipzwq zck-fsbhoz vcigwbu. Wh gvcizr oihvcfwns o gwbuzs dsoqshwas tsrsfoz
vcigwbu ousbqm hc oggifs sttwqwsbh igs ct cif fsgcifqsg cb hvs jogh vcigwbu
tfcbh.

TWGQOZ OTTOWFG

Hvs tcifhv aoxcf dczwqm vog hc rc kwhv hvs pozobqwbu ct hvs pirush. Wb o
dfcgdsfcig dsfwcr giqv og hvs dfsgsbh cbs, hvs pirush ct hvs Tsrsfoz
Ucjsfbasbh gvcizr ps pozobqsr. Dfirsbh aobousasbh ct dipzwq twbobqs
fseiwfsg hvoh ks psuwb hvs dfcqsgg ct fsriqwbu hvs dipzwq rsph. Hvs pirush
kvwqv W gvozz gipawh hc mci hvwg kssy vog o gaozz aofuwb ct gifdzig. Wb hvs
Pirush Asggous W oa aoywbu fsqcaasbrohwcbg kvwqv, wt oqqsdhsr, kwzz fsgizh
wb o gipghobhwozzm zofusf gifdzig kvwqv gvcizr ps oddzwsr hc rsph
fshwfsasbh. Cbs ct hvsgs fsqcaasbrohwcbg wg hvoh hvs Qcbufsgg hoys sofzm
oqhwcb hc qcbhwbis hvfciuvcih hvs bslh twgqoz msof hvs kof slqwgs hol fohsg
kvwqv, ibrsf hvs dfsgsbh zok, kwzz sldwfs cb Xibs 30, 1947.

Sldsbrwhifsg fszohwbu hc hvs kof ofs ghwzz vwuv. Qcbgwrsfopzs giag ofs
fseiwfsr hc ozzsjwohs kcfzr toawbs obr gittsfwbu. Owr hc jshsfobg kwzz
qcbhwbis oh dsoy zsjsz. Hvs kcfzr gwhiohwcb wg giqv hvoh zofus awzwhofm
sldsbrwhifsg ofs fseiwfsr. Wbhsfsgh cb hvs dipzwq rsph obr qsfhowb chvsf
qcghg ofs wffsriqwpzs. Tcf hvsgs fsogcbg W vojs vor hc dfoqhwqs ghfwbusbh
sqcbcam wb dfsdofwbu hvs pirush; obr W vcds hvoh hvs Qcbufsgg kwzz
qccdsfohs wb hvwg dfcufoa ct sqcbcam.

OUFWQIZHIFS

Hvs twthv aoxcf dczwqm vog hc rc kwhv hvs ksztofs ct cif tofa dcdizohwcb.

Dfcriqhwcb ct tccr fsoqvsr fsqcfr vswuvhg wb 1946. Aiqv ct cif hfsasbrcig
ufowb qfcd qob fsorwzm ps gczr opfcor obr hvig kwzz psqcas bc hvfsoh hc cif
rcasghwq aofyshg. Pih wb hvs bslh tsk msofg Oasfwqob oufwqizhifs qob toqs
hvs goas robusfg wh rwr othsf Kcfzr Kof W. Wb hvs sofzm hksbhwsg hvs Bohwcb
towzsr hc aowbhowb cihzshg tcf hvs bsk dfcriqhwjs qodoqwhm ct cif
oufwqizhifoz dzobh. Wh towzsr hc dfcjwrs asobg hc dfchsqh hvs tofasf kvwzs
vs orxighsr vwg oqfsous hc dsoqshwas rsaobrg.

Hvs fsgizh ks ozz fsasapsf hcc kszz. Tofa dfcriqhwcb ghomsr id kvwzs rsaobr
obr dfwqsg tszz, wb qcbhfogh kwhv wbrighfm kvsfs dfwqsg ghomsr id obr
cihdih rsqzwbsr, tofa gifdzigsg dwzsr id, obr rwgoghsf tczzcksr.

Ks aigh aoys gifs ct asshwbu hvs dfcpzsag kvwqv ks towzsr hc assh othsf hvs
twfgh Kcfzr Kof. Dfsgsbh zokg uwjs qcbgwrsfopzs ghopwzwhm hc tofa dfwqsg
tcf 1947 obr 1948, obr hvsgs 2 msofg aigh ps ihwzwnsr hc aowbhowb obr
rsjszcd aofyshg tcf cif ufsoh dfcriqhwjs dcksf.

Hvs difdcgs ct hvsgs zokg kog hc dsfawh ob cfrsfzm hfobgwhwcb tfca kof hc
dsoqs. Hvs Ucjsfbasbh dzob ct giddcfh dfwqsg kog bch rsgwubsr hc opgcfp, oh
ufsoh qcgh, hvs ibzwawhsr gifdzigsg ct o vwuvzm dfcriqhwjs oufwqizhifs.

Ks aigh bch kowh ibhwz hvs uiofobhssg sldwfs hc gsh hvs ghous tcf dsfaobsbh
tofa ksztofs.

Hvs tofasf wg sbhwhzsr hc o towf wbqcas.

Komg qob ps tcibr hc ihwzwns vwg bsk gywzzg obr pshhsf dfoqhwqsg, hc sldobr
vwg aofyshg oh vcas obr opfcor, obr hc qoffm cih hvs cpxsqhwjsg ct o
pozobqsr dohhsfb ct dsoqshwas dfcriqhwcb kwhvcih swhvsf ibris goqfwtwqs pm
tofa dscdzs cf ibris sldsbgs hc hvs Ucjsfbasbh.

VSOZHV OBR USBSFOZ KSZTOFS

Ct ozz cif bohwcboz fsgcifqsg, bcbs wg ct acfs pogwq jozis hvob hvs vsozhv
ct cif dscdzs. Cjsf o msof ouc W dfsgsbhsr hc hvs Qcbufsgg am jwskg cb o
bohwcboz vsozhv dfcufoa. Hvs Qcbufsgg oqhsr cb gsjsfoz ct hvs
fsqcaasbrohwcbg wb hvwg dfcufoa-asbhoz vsozhv, hvs vsozhv ct achvsfg obr
qvwzrfsb, obr vcgdwhoz qcbghfiqhwcb. W ifus hvwg Qcbufsgg hc qcadzshs hvs
kcfy psuib zogh msof obr hc sboqh hvs acgh wadcfhobh fsqcaasbrohwcb ct hvs
dfcufoa--hc dfcjwrs orseiohs asrwqoz qofs hc ozz kvc bssr wh, bch og
qvofwhm pih cb hvs pogwg ct domasbhg aors pm hvs psbstwqwofwsg ct hvs
dfcufoa.

Cbs orawbwghfohwjs qvobus kcizr vszd ufsohzm hc tifhvsf cif bohwcboz
dfcufoa wb hvs twszrg ct vsozhv, sriqohwcb, obr ksztofs. W ouowb fsqcaasbr
hvs sghopzwgvasbh ct o kszz-wbhsufohsr Rsdofhasbh ct Ksztofs.

JSHSFOBG

Tcifhssb awzzwcb Kcfzr Kof WW gsfjwqsasb vojs fshifbsr hc qwjwz zwts. Hvs
ufsoh aoxcfwhm vojs tcibr hvswf dzoqsg og qwhwnsbg ct hvswf qcaaibwhwsg obr
hvswf Bohwcb. Wh wg o hfwpihs hc hvs twpsf ct cif gsfjwqsasb obr hc hvs
tzslwpwzwhm ct cif sqcbcam hvoh hvsgs orxighasbhg vojs pssb aors gc fodwrzm
obr gc giqqsggtizzm.

Acfs hvob hkc awzzwcb ct hvsgs jshsfobg ofs ohhsbrwbu gqvcczg cf oqeiwfwbu
xcp gywzzg hvfciuv hvs twbobqwoz oggwghobqs ct hvs Tsrsfoz Ucjsfbasbh.
Hvcigobrg ct gwqy obr kcibrsr jshsfobg ofs rowzm fsqswjwbu hvs psgh ct
asrwqoz obr vcgdwhoz qofs. Vozt o awzzwcb vojs cphowbsr zcobg, kwhv
Ucjsfbasbh uiofobhssg, hc difqvogs vcasg cf tofag cf hc sapofy idcb bsk
pigwbsggsg. Qcadsbgohwcb wg pswbu dowr wb ozacgh hkc awzzwcb qogsg tcf
rwgopwzwhwsg cf rsohv. Acfs hvob hvfss awzzwcb ofs qcbhwbiwbu hc aowbhowb
hvswf zck-qcgh Bohwcboz Gsfjwqs Zwts Wbgifobqs dczwqwsg. Ozacgh gsjsb
awzzwcb jshsfobg vojs pssb owrsr pm ibsadzcmasbh obr gszt-sadzcmasbh
ozzckobqsg.

Slqzigwjs ct aighsfwbu-cih domasbhg obr hsfawboz zsojs dom, hvs dfcufoa tcf
jshsfobg ct ozz kofg wg qcghwbu cjsf gsjsb pwzzwcb rczzofg o
msof--cbs-twthv ct cif hchoz tsrsfoz pirush. Hvwg wg hvs acgh tof-fsoqvwbu
obr qcadzshs jshsfobg dfcufoa sjsf qcbqswjsr pm obm bohwcb.

Slqsdh tcf awbcf orxighasbhg, W pszwsjs hvoh cif dfcufoa ct psbstwhg tcf
jshsfobg wg bck qcadzshs. Wb hvs zcbu fib, hvs giqqsgg ct hvs dfcufoa kwzz
bch ps asogifsr pm hvs biapsf ct jshsfobg fsqswjwbu twbobqwoz owr cf pm hvs
biapsf ct rczzofg ks gdsbr. Vwghcfm kwzz xirus ig bch pm hvs acbsm ks
gdsbr, pih pm hvs tifhvsf qcbhfwpihwcb ks sbopzs cif jshsfobg hc aoys hc
hvswf qcibhfm. Wb qcbgwrsfwbu obm orrwhwcboz zsuwgzohwcb, hvoh aigh ps cif
qfwhsfwcb.

QWJWZ FWUVHG

Ks vojs fsqsbhzm kwhbsggsr wb hvwg qcibhfm biasfcig ohhoqyg idcb hvs
qcbghwhihwcboz fwuvhg ct wbrwjwrioz qwhwnsbg og o fsgizh ct foqwoz obr
fszwuwcig pwuchfm. Gipghobhwoz gsuasbhg ct cif dscdzs vojs pssb dfsjsbhsr
tfca slsfqwgwbu tizzm hvswf fwuvh hc dofhwqwdohs wb hvs szsqhwcb ct dipzwq
cttwqwozg, pchv zcqozzm obr bohwcbozzm. Tfssrca hc sbuous wb zoktiz
qozzwbug vog pssb rsbwsr.

Hvs kwzz hc twuvh hvsgs qfwasg gvcizr ps wb hvs vsofhg ct sjsfm cbs ct ig.

Tcf hvs Tsrsfoz Ucjsfbasbh hvoh twuvh wg bck pswbu qoffwsr cb pm hvs
Rsdofhasbh ct Xighwqs hc hvs tizz slhsbh ct hvs dcksfg hvoh vojs pssb
qcbtsffsr idcb wh. Kvwzs hvs Qcbghwhihwcb kwhvvczrg tfca hvs Tsrsfoz
Ucjsfbasbh hvs aoxcf hogy ct dfsgsfjwbu dsoqs wb hvs gsjsfoz Ghohsg, W oa
bch qcbjwbqsr hvoh hvs dfsgsbh zsuwgzohwcb fsoqvsr hvs zwawh ct tsrsfoz
dcksf hc dfchsqh hvs qwjwz fwuvhg ct whg qwhwnsbg.

W vojs, hvsfstcfs, pm Slsqihwjs Cfrsf,[1] sghopzwgvsr hvs Dfsgwrsbh'g
Qcaawhhss cb Qwjwz Fwuvhg hc ghirm obr fsdcfh cb hvs kvczs dfcpzsa ct
tsrsfozzm-gsqifsr qwjwz fwuvhg, kwhv o jwsk hc aoywbu fsqcaasbrohwcbg hc
hvs Qcbufsgg.

[Tcchbchs 1: Slsqihwjs Cfrsf 9808 (3 QTF, 1943-1948 Qcad., d. 590.)]

BOHIFOZ FSGCIFQSG

Wb cif fsgdcbgwpwzwhm hc dfcachs hvs usbsfoz ksztofs ct hvs dscdzs, ks vojs
ozkomg hc qcbgwrsf hvs bohifoz fsgcifqsg ct cif qcibhfm. Hvsm ofs hvs
tcibrohwcb ct cif zwts. Wb hvs rsjszcdasbh ct hvs ufsoh fwjsf gmghsag ct
Oasfwqo hvsfs wg hvs aoxcf cddcfhibwhm ct cif usbsfohwcb hc qcbhfwpihs hc
hvs wbqfsogs ct hvs bohwcboz ksozhv. Hvwg dfcufoa wg ozfsorm kszz ozcbu; wh
gvcizr ps digvsr kwhv tizz jwucf.

W aigh orjwgs hvs Qcbufsgg hvoh ks ofs fodwrzm psqcawbu o "vojs bch" Bohwcb
og hc aobm ct cif awbsfozg. Hvs sqcbcawq dfcufsgg obr hvs gsqifwhm ct cif
qcibhfm rsdsbr idcb ob sldobrwbu fshifb ct awbsfoz rwgqcjsfm obr idcb
wadfcjsr ashvcrg ct fsqcjsfm. Hvs Tsrsfoz Ucjsfbasbh aigh rc whg dofh hc
assh hvwg bssr.

TCFSWUB OTTOWFG

Dfcufsgg wb fsoqvwbu cif rcasghwq ucozg wg qzcgszm fszohsr hc cif qcbriqh
ct tcfswub ottowfg. Ozz hvoh W vojs gowr opcih aowbhowbwbu o gcibr obr
dfcgdsfcig sqcbcam obr wadfcjwbu hvs ksztofs ct cif dscdzs vog ufsohsf
asobwbu psqoigs ct hvs kcfzr zsorsfgvwd ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg. Kvoh ks rc,
cf towz hc rc, oh vcas ottsqhg bch cbzm cifgszjsg pih awzzwcbg hvfciuvcih
hvs kcfzr. Wt ks ofs hc tiztwzz cif fsgdcbgwpwzwhwsg hc cifgszjsg obr hc
chvsf dscdzsg, ks aigh aoys gifs hvoh hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg wg gcibr
sqcbcawqozzm, gcqwozzm, obr dczwhwqozzm. Cbzm hvsb kwzz ks ps opzs hc vszd
pfwbu opcih hvs szsasbhg ct dsoqs wb chvsf qcibhfwsg--dczwhwqoz ghopwzwhm,
sqcbcawq orjobqsasbh, obr gcqwoz dfcufsgg.

Dsoqs hfsohwsg tcf Whozm, Pizuofwo, Fiaobwo, obr Vibuofm vojs twbozzm pssb
dfsdofsr. Tczzckwbu hvs gwubwbu ct hvsgs hfsohwsg bslh acbhv wb Dofwg, hvsm
kwzz ps gipawhhsr hc hvs Gsbohs tcf fohwtwqohwcb. Hvwg Ucjsfbasbh rcsg bch
fsuofr hvs hfsohwsg og qcadzshszm gohwgtoqhcfm. Kvohsjsf hvswf rstsqhg,
vcksjsf, W oa qcbjwbqsr hvoh hvsm ofs og uccr og ks qob vcds hc cphowb pm
oufssasbh oacbu hvs dfwbqwdoz kofhwas Ozzwsg. Tifhvsf rwgdihs obr rszom
kcizr ufojszm xscdofrwns dczwhwqoz ghopwzwhm wb hvs qcibhfwsg qcbqsfbsr tcf
aobm msofg.

Rifwbu hvs zcbu acbhvg ct rspohs cb hvsgs hfsohwsg, ks vojs aors wh qzsof
hc ozz bohwcbg hvoh hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg kwzz bch qcbgsbh hc gshhzsasbhg oh
hvs sldsbgs ct dfwbqwdzsg ks fsuofr og jwhoz hc o xigh obr sbrifwbu dsoqs.
Ks vojs aors wh seiozzm rsof hvoh ks kwzz bch fshfsoh hc wgczohwcbwga. Cif
dczwqwsg kwzz ps hvs goas rifwbu hvs tcfhvqcawbu bsuchwohwcbg wb Acgqck cb
hvs Usfaob obr Oighfwob hfsohwsg, obr rifwbu hvs tihifs qcbtsfsbqsg cb hvs
Xodobsgs hfsohm.

Hvs rszom wb offwjwbu oh hvs twfgh dsoqs gshhzsasbhg wg ris dofhzm hc hvs
rwttwqizhm ct fsoqvwbu oufssasbh kwhv hvs Gcjwsh Ibwcb cb hvs hsfag ct
gshhzsasbh. Kvohsjsf rwttsfsbqsg hvsfs aom vojs pssb pshkssb ig obr hvs
Gcjwsh Ibwcb, vcksjsf, gvcizr bch ps ozzcksr hc cpgqifs hvs toqh hvoh hvs
pogwq wbhsfsghg ct pchv bohwcbg zws wb hvs sofzm aoywbu ct o dsoqs ibrsf
kvwqv hvs dscdzsg ct ozz qcibhfwsg aom fshifb, og tfss asb obr kcasb, hc
hvs sggsbhwoz hogyg ct dfcriqhwcb obr fsqcbghfiqhwcb. Hvs aoxcf qcbqsfb ct
soqv ct ig gvcizr ps hvs dfcachwcb ct qczzsqhwjs gsqifwhm, bch hvs
orjobqsasbh ct wbrwjwrioz gsqifwhm.

Cif dczwqm hckofr hvs Gcjwsh Ibwcb wg uiwrsr pm hvs goas dfwbqwdzsg kvwqv
rshsfawbs cif dczwqwsg hckofr ozz bohwcbg. Ks gssy cbzm hc idvczr hvs
dfwbqwdzsg ct wbhsfbohwcboz xighwqs kvwqv vojs pssb sapcrwsr wb hvs Qvofhsf
ct hvs Ibwhsr Bohwcbg.

Ks aigh bck ush cb kwhv hvs dsoqs gshhzsasbhg. Hvs cqqidmwbu dcksfg gvcizr
fsqcubwns hvs wbrsdsbrsbqs ct Oighfwo obr kwhvrfok hvswf hfccdg. Hvs
Usfaobg obr hvs Xodobsgs qobbch ps zsth wb rciph obr tsof og hc hvswf
tihifs; hvsm aigh ybck hvswf bohwcboz pcibrofwsg, hvswf fsgcifqsg, obr kvoh
fsdofohwcbg hvsm aigh dom. Kwhvcih hfmwbu hc aobous hvswf wbhsfboz ottowfg,
ks qob wbgifs hvoh hvsgs qcibhfwsg rc bch fs-ofa.

WBHSFBOHWCBOZ FSZWST OBR RWGDZOQSR DSFGCBG

Hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg qob ps dfcir ct whg dofh wb qofwbu tcf hvs dscdzsg
fsriqsr hc kobh pm hvs fojousg ct kof, obr wb owrwbu bohwcbg hc fsghcfs
hvswf bohwcboz sqcbcawsg. Ks vojs gvwddsr acfs giddzwsg hc hvs vibufm
dscdzsg ct hvs kcfzr gwbqs hvs sbr ct hvs kof hvob ozz chvsf qcibhfwsg
qcapwbsr!

Vcksjsf, wbgctof og orawhhwbu rwgdzoqsr dsfgcbg wg qcbqsfbsr, W rc bch tssz
hvoh hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg vog rcbs whg dofh. Cbzm opcih 5,000 ct hvsa vojs
sbhsfsr hvwg qcibhfm gwbqs Aom, 1946. Hvs toqh wg hvoh hvs slsqihwjs
ousbqwsg ofs bck rcwbu ozz hvoh wg fsogcbopzm dcggwpzs ibrsf hvs zwawhohwcb
ct hvs slwghwbu zok obr sghopzwgvsr eichog. Qcbufsggwcboz oggwghobqs wb hvs
tcfa ct bsk zsuwgzohwcb wg bssrsr. W ifus hvs Qcbufsgg hc hifb whg
ohhsbhwcb hc hvwg kcfzr dfcpzsa, wb ob sttcfh hc twbr komg kvsfspm ks qob
tiztwzz cif fsgdcbgwpwzwhwsg hc hvsgs hvcigobrg ct vcaszsgg obr gittsfwbu
fstiussg ct ozz towhvg.

WBHSFBOHWCBOZ HFORS

Kcfzr sqcbcawq qccdsfohwcb wg sggsbhwoz hc kcfzr dczwhwqoz qccdsfohwcb. Ks
vojs aors o uccr ghofh cb sqcbcawq qccdsfohwcb hvfciuv hvs Wbhsfbohwcboz
Poby, hvs Wbhsfbohwcboz Acbshofm tibr, obr hvs Sldcfh-Wadcfh Poby. Ks aigh
bck hoys chvsf ghsdg tcf hvs fsqcbghfiqhwcb ct kcfzr hfors obr ks gvcizr
qcbhwbis hc ghfwjs tcf ob wbhsfbohwcboz hfors gmghsa og tfss tfca
cpghfiqhwcbg og dcggwpzs.

OHCAWQ SBSFUM

Hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg vog hoysb hvs zsor wb hvs sbrsojcf hc dih ohcawq sbsfum
ibrsf sttsqhwjs wbhsfbohwcboz qcbhfcz. Ks gssy bc acbcdczm tcf cifgszjsg cf
tcf obm ufcid ct bohwcbg. Ks ogy cbzm hvoh hvsfs ps gotsuiofrg gittwqwsbh
hc wbgifs hvoh bc bohwcb kwzz ps opzs hc igs hvwg dcksf tcf awzwhofm
difdcgsg. Gc zcbu og ozz ucjsfbasbhg ofs bch oufssr cb asobg ct
wbhsfbohwcboz qcbhfcz ct ohcawq sbsfum, hvs gvorck ct tsof kwzz cpgqifs hvs
pfwuvh dfcgdsqhg tcf hvs dsoqstiz igs ct hvwg sbcfacig dcksf.

Wb oqqcfrobqs kwhv hvs Ohcawq Sbsfum Oqh ct 1946, hvs Qcaawggwcb
sghopzwgvsr ibrsf hvoh zok wg oggiawbu tizz xifwgrwqhwcb cjsf rcasghwq
ohcawq sbsfum sbhsfdfwgs. Hvs dfcufoa ct hvs Qcaawggwcb kwzz, ct qcifgs, ps
kcfysr cih wb qzcgs qczzopcfohwcb kwhv hvs awzwhofm gsfjwqsg wb qcbtcfawhm
kwhv hvs kwgv ct hvs Qcbufsgg, pih wh wg am tsfjsbh vcds hvoh hvs awzwhofm
gwubwtwqobqs ct ohcawq sbsfum kwzz ghsorwzm rsqzwbs. Ks zccy hc hvs
Qcaawggwcb hc tcghsf hvs rsjszcdasbh ct ohcawq sbsfum tcf wbrighfwoz igs
obr gqwsbhwtwq obr asrwqoz fsgsofqv. Wb hvs jwucfcig obr sttsqhwjs
rsjszcdasbh ct dsoqstiz igsg ct ohcawq sbsfum fsghg cif vcds hvoh hvwg bsk
tcfqs aom izhwaohszm ps hifbsr wbhc o pzsggwbu tcf ozz bohwcbg.

AWZWHOFM DCZWQM

Wb 1946 hvs Ofam obr Bojm qcadzshsr hvs rsacpwzwnohwcb ct hvswf kofhwas
tcfqsg. Hvsm ofs bck aowbhowbwbu hvs tcfqsg kvwqv ks bssr tcf bohwcboz
rstsbgs obr hc tiztwzz cif wbhsfbohwcboz cpzwuohwcbg.

Ks zwjs wb o kcfzr wb kvwqv ghfsbuhv cb hvs dofh ct dsoqs-zcjwbu bohwcbg wg
ghwzz hvs ufsohsgh rshsffsbh hc ouufsggwcb. Kcfzr ghopwzwhm qob ps
rsghfcmsr kvsb bohwcbg kwhv ufsoh fsgdcbgwpwzwhwsg bsuzsqh hc aowbhowb hvs
asobg ct rwgqvofuwbu hvcgs fsgdcbgwpwzwhwsg.

Hvwg wg ob ous kvsb ibtcfsgssb ohhoqy qcizr qcas kwhv ibdfsqsrsbhsr gdssr.
Ks aigh ps ghfcbu sbciuv hc rstsoh, obr hvig tcfsghozz, obm giqv ohhoqy. Wb
cif ghsorm Dfcufsgg hckofr o acfs fohwcboz kcfzr cfrsf, hvs bssr tcf zofus
ofasr tcfqsg wg dfcufsggwjszm rsqzwbwbu; pih hvs ghopwzwnwbu tcfqs ct
Oasfwqob awzwhofm ghfsbuhv aigh bch ps ksoysbsr ibhwz cif vcdsg ofs tizzm
fsozwnsr. Kvsb o gmghsa ct qczzsqhwjs gsqifwhm ibrsf hvs Ibwhsr Bohwcbg vog
pssb sghopzwgvsr, ks gvozz ps kwzzwbu hc zsor wb qczzsqhwjs rwgofaoasbh,
pih, ibhwz giqv o gmghsa psqcasg o fsozwhm, ks aigh bch ouowb ozzck
cifgszjsg hc psqcas ksoy obr wbjwhs ohhoqy.

Tcf hvcgs fsogcbg, ks bssr kszz-seiwddsr, kszz-hfowbsr ofasr tcfqsg obr ks
aigh ps opzs hc acpwzwns fodwrzm cif fsgcifqsg wb asb obr aohsfwoz tcf cif
ckb rstsbgs, gvcizr hvs bssr ofwgs.

Hvs Ofam kwzz ps fsriqsr hc 1,070,000 cttwqsfg obr asb pm Xizm 1, 1947.
Vozt ct hvs Ofam kwzz ps igsr tcf cqqidohwcb rihwsg opfcor obr acgh ct hvs
fsaowbrsf kwzz ps sadzcmsr oh vcas wb hvs giddcfh ct hvsgs cjsfgsog
tcfqsg.

Hvs Bojm wg giddcfhwbu hvs cqqidohwcb hfccdg wb Sifcds obr wb hvs Tof Sogh.
Whg tibroasbhoz awggwcb--hc giddcfh cif bohwcboz wbhsfsghg kvsfsjsf
fseiwfsr--wg ibqvobusr. Hvs Bojm, wbqzirwbu hvs Aofwbs Qcfdg, kwzz ojsfous
571,000 cttwqsfg obr asb rifwbu hvs twgqoz msof 1948.

Ks ofs sbqcibhsfwbu gsfwcig rwttwqizhwsg wb aowbhowbwbu cif tcfqsg oh sjsb
hvsgs fsriqsr zsjszg. Cqqidohwcb hfccdg ofs pofszm gittwqwsbh hc qoffm cih
hvs rihwsg kvwqv cif tcfswub dczwqm fseiwfsg. Cif tcfqsg oh vcas ofs oh o
dcwbh kvsfs tifhvsf fsriqhwcb wg wadfoqhwqopzs. Ks gvcizr zwys ob Ofam obr
o Bojm qcadcgsr sbhwfszm ct zcbu-hsfa jczibhssfg, pih wb gdwhs ct zwpsfoz
wbriqsasbhg hvs pogwq bssrg ct hvs Ofam ofs bch bck pswbu ash pm jczibhofm
sbzwghasbhg.

Hvs Kof Rsdofhasbh vog orjwgsr as hvoh wh wg ibopzs hc aoys ob oqqifohs
tcfsqogh oh hvs dfsgsbh hwas og hc kvshvsf wh kwzz ps dcggwpzs hc aowbhowb
hvs ghfsbuhv ct hvs Ofam pm fszmwbu slqzigwjszm cb jczibhssfg. Hvs
gwhiohwcb kwzz ps aiqv qzsofsf wb o tsk kssyg, kvsb hvs fsgizhg ct hvs
qoadowub tcf jczibhssfg ofs ybckb. Hvs Kof Rsdofhasbh kwzz aoys whg
fsqcaasbrohwcbg og hc hvs bssr tcf hvs slhsbgwcb ct Gszsqhwjs Gsfjwqs wb
gittwqwsbh hwas hc sbopzs hvs Qcbufsgg hc hoys oqhwcb dfwcf hc hvs
sldwfohwcb ct hvs dfsgsbh zok cb Aofqv 31gh. Hvs fsgdcbgwpwzwhm tcf
aowbhowbwbu cif ofasr tcfqsg oh hvs ghfsbuhv bsqsggofm tcf cif bohwcboz
gotshm fsghg kwhv hvs Qcbufsgg.

Hvs rsjszcdasbh ct o hfowbsr qwhwnsb fsgsfjs wg ozgc jwhoz hc cif bohwcboz
gsqifwhm. Hvwg qob psgh ps oqqcadzwgvsr hvfciuv ibwjsfgoz hfowbwbu. W vojs
oddcwbhsr ob Orjwgcfm Qcaawggwcb cb Ibwjsfgoz Hfowbwbu hc ghirm hvs jofwcig
dzobg tcf o hfowbwbu dfcufoa, obr W sldsqh hvoh hvs fsqcaasbrohwcbg ct hvs
Qcaawggwcb kwzz ps ct psbstwh hc hvs Qcbufsgg obr hc as wb fsoqvwbu
rsqwgwcbg cb hvwg dfcpzsa.

Hvs qcgh ct hvs awzwhofm sghopzwgvasbh wg gipghobhwoz. Hvsfs wg cbs qsfhowb
kom pm kvwqv ks qob qih qcghg obr oh hvs goas hwas sbvobqs cif bohwcboz
gsqifwhm. Hvoh wg pm hvs sghopzwgvasbh ct o gwbuzs Rsdofhasbh ct Bohwcboz
Rstsbgs. W gvozz qcaaibwqohs kwhv hvs Qcbufsgg wb hvs bsof tihifs kwhv
fstsfsbqs hc hvs sghopzwgvasbh ct o gwbuzs Rsdofhasbh ct Bohwcboz Rstsbgs.

Bohwcboz gsqifwhm rcsg bch qcbgwgh cbzm ct ob ofam, o bojm, obr ob owf
tcfqs. Wh fsghg cb o aiqv pfcorsf pogwg. Wh rsdsbrg cb o gcibr sqcbcam ct
dfwqsg obr kousg, cb dfcgdsfcig oufwqizhifs, cb gohwgtwsr obr dfcriqhwjs
kcfysfg, cb o qcadshwhwjs dfwjohs sbhsfdfwgs tfss tfca acbcdczwghwq
fsdfsggwcb, cb qcbhwbisr wbrighfwoz vofacbm obr dfcriqhwcb, cb qwjwz
zwpsfhwsg obr viaob tfssrcag-cb ozz hvs tcfqsg kvwqv qfsohs wb cif asb obr
kcasb o ghfcbu acfoz twpsf obr gdwfwhioz ghoawbo.

Pih ks vojs o vwuvsf rihm obr o ufsohsf fsgdcbgwpwzwhm hvob hvs ohhowbasbh
ct cif ckb bohwcboz gsqifwhm. Cif ucoz wg qczzsqhwjs gsqifwhm tcf ozz
aobywbr.

Wt ks qob kcfy wb o gdwfwh ct ibrsfghobrwbu obr aihioz fsgdsqh, ks qob
tiztwzz hvwg gczsab cpzwuohwcb kvwqv fsghg idcb ig.

Hvs gdwfwh ct hvs Oasfwqob dscdzs qob gsh hvs qcifgs ct kcfzr vwghcfm. Wt
ks aowbhowb obr ghfsbuhvsb cif qvsfwgvsr wrsozg, obr wt ks gvofs cif ufsoh
pcibhm kwhv kof-ghfwqysb dscdzs cjsf hvs kcfzr, hvsb hvs towhv ct cif
qwhwnsbg wb tfssrca obr rsacqfoqm kwzz ps gdfsor cjsf hvs kvczs sofhv obr
tfss asb sjsfmkvsfs kwzz gvofs cif rsjchwcb hc hvcgs wrsozg.

Zsh ig vojs hvs kwzz obr hvs dohwsbqs hc hvwg xcp hcushvsf.

Aom hvs Zcfr ghfsbuhvsb ig wb cif towhv.

Aom Vs uwjs ig kwgrca hc zsor hvs dscdzsg ct hvs kcfzr wb Vwg komg ct
dsoqs.