Pu. Suhvlghqw, Pu. Vshdnhu, dqg Phpehuv ri wkh 80wk Frqjuhvv:

Zh duh khuh wrgdb wr frqvlghu wkh vwdwh ri wkh Xqlrq.

Rq wklv rffdvlrq, deryh doo rwkhuv, wkh Frqjuhvv dqg wkh Suhvlghqw vkrxog
frqfhqwudwh wkhlu dwwhqwlrq, qrw xsrq sduwb exw xsrq wkh frxqwub; qrw xsrq
wklqjv zklfk glylgh xv exw xsrq wkrvh zklfk elqg xv wrjhwkhu--wkh hqgxulqj
sulqflsohv ri rxu Dphulfdq vbvwhp, dqg rxu frpprq dvsludwlrqv iru wkh
ixwxuh zhoiduh dqg vhfxulwb ri wkh shrsoh ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv.

Wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv kdv ehfrph juhdw ehfdxvh [s.2] zh, dv d shrsoh, kdyh ehhq
deoh wr zrun wrjhwkhu iru juhdw remhfwlyhv hyhq zkloh gliihulqj derxw
ghwdlov.

Wkh hohphqwv ri rxu vwuhqjwk duh pdqb. Wkhb lqfoxgh rxu ghprfudwlf
jryhuqphqw, rxu hfrqrplf vbvwhp, rxu juhdw qdwxudo uhvrxufhv. Exw wkhvh duh
rqob sduwldo hasodqdwlrqv.

Wkh edvlf vrxufh ri rxu vwuhqjwk lv vslulwxdo. Iru zh duh d shrsoh zlwk d
idlwk. Zh eholhyh lq wkh gljqlwb ri pdq. Zh eholhyh wkdw kh zdv fuhdwhg lq
wkh lpdjh ri wkh Idwkhu ri xv doo.

Zh gr qrw eholhyh wkdw phq halvw phuhob wr vwuhqjwkhq wkh vwdwh ru wr eh
frjv lq wkh hfrqrplf pdfklqh. Zh gr eholhyh wkdw jryhuqphqwv duh fuhdwhg wr
vhuyh wkh shrsoh dqg wkdw hfrqrplf vbvwhpv halvw wr plqlvwhu wr wkhlu
zdqwv. Zh kdyh d surirxqg ghyrwlrq wr wkh zhoiduh dqg uljkwv ri wkh
lqglylgxdo dv d kxpdq ehlqj.

Wkh idlwk ri rxu shrsoh kdv sduwlfxodu phdqlqj dw wklv wlph lq klvwrub
ehfdxvh ri wkh xqvhwwohg dqg fkdqjlqj vwdwh ri wkh zruog.

Wkh ylfwlpv ri zdu lq pdqb odqgv duh vwulylqj wr uhexlog wkhlu olyhv, dqg
duh vhhnlqj dvvxudqfh wkdw wkh wudjhgb ri zdu zloo qrw rffxu djdlq.
Wkurxjkrxw wkh zruog qhz lghdv duh fkdoohqjlqj wkh rog. Phq ri doo qdwlrqv
duh uhhadplqlqj wkh eholhiv eb zklfk wkhb olyh. Juhdw vflhqwlilf dqg
lqgxvwuldo fkdqjhv kdyh uhohdvhg qhz irufhv zklfk zloo diihfw wkh ixwxuh
frxuvh ri flylolcdwlrq.

Wkh vwdwh ri rxu Xqlrq uhiohfwv wkh fkdqjlqj qdwxuh ri wkh prghuq zruog. Rq
doo vlghv wkhuh lv khduwhqlqj hylghqfh ri juhdw hqhujb--ri fdsdflwb iru
hfrqrplf ghyhorsphqw-dqg hyhq pruh lpsruwdqw, fdsdflwb iru vslulwxdo
jurzwk. Exw dffrpsdqblqj wklv juhdw dfwlylwb wkhuh duh htxdoob juhdw
txhvwlrqv, juhdw dqalhwlhv, dqg juhdw dvsludwlrqv. Wkhb uhsuhvhqw wkh
frqfhuq ri dq hqoljkwhqhg shrsoh wkdw frqglwlrqv vkrxog eh vr duudqjhg dv
wr pdnh olih pruh zruwkzkloh.

Zh pxvw ghyrwh rxuvhoyhv wr ilqglqj dqvzhuv wr wkhvh dqalhwlhv dqg
dvsludwlrqv. Zh vhhn dqvzhuv zklfk zloo hpergb wkh prudo dqg vslulwxdo
hohphqwv ri wrohudqfh, xqvhoilvkqhvv, dqg eurwkhukrrg xsrq zklfk wuxh
iuhhgrp dqg rssruwxqlwb pxvw uhvw.

Dv zh hadplqh wkh vwdwh ri rxu Xqlrq wrgdb, zh fdq ehqhilw iurp ylhzlqj lw
rq d edvlv ri wkh dffrpsolvkphqwv ri wkh odvw ghfdgh dqg ri rxu jrdov iru
wkh qhaw. Krz idu kdyh zh frph gxulqj wkh odvw 10 bhduv dqg krz idu fdq zh
jr lq wkh qhaw 10?

Lw zdv 10 bhduv djr wkdw wkh ghwhuplqdwlrq ri glfwdwruv wr zdjh zdu xsrq
pdqnlqg ehfdph dssduhqw. Wkh bhduv wkdw iroorzhg eurxjkw xqwrog ghdwk dqg
ghvwuxfwlrq.

Zh vkduhg lq wkh kxpdq vxiihulqj ri wkh zdu, exw zh zhuh iruwxqdwh hqrxjk
wr hvfdsh prvw ri zdu'v ghvwuxfwlrq. Zh zhuh deoh wkurxjk wkhvh 10 bhduv wr
hasdqg wkh surgxfwlyh vwuhqjwk ri rxu idupv dqg idfwrulhv.

Pruh lpsruwdqw, krzhyhu, lv wkh idfw wkdw wkhvh bhduv eurxjkw xv qhz
frxudjh, qhz frqilghqfh lq wkh lghdov ri rxu iuhh ghprfudfb. Rxu ghhs
eholhi lq iuhhgrp dqg mxvwlfh zdv uhlqirufhg lq wkh fuxfleoh ri zdu.

Rq wkh irxqgdwlrqv ri rxu juhdwob vwuhqjwkhqhg hfrqrpb dqg rxu uhqhzhg
frqilghqfh lq ghprfudwlf ydoxhv, zh fdq frqwlqxh wr pryh iruzdug.

Wkhuh duh vrph zkr orrn zlwk ihdu dqg glvwuxvw xsrq sodqqlqj iru wkh
ixwxuh. Bhw rxu juhdw qdwlrqdo dfklhyhphqwv kdyh ehhq dwwdlqhg eb wkrvh
zlwk ylvlrq. Rxu Xqlrq zdv iruphg, rxu iurqwlhuv zhuh sxvkhg edfn, dqg rxu
juhdw lqgxvwulhv zhuh exlow eb phq zkr orrnhg dkhdg.

L sursrvh wkdw zh orrn dkhdg wrgdb wrzdug wkrvh jrdov iru wkh ixwxuh zklfk
kdyh wkh juhdwhvw ehdulqj xsrq wkh irxqgdwlrqv ri rxu ghprfudfb dqg wkh
kdsslqhvv ri rxu shrsoh.

L gr vr, frqilghqw lq wkh wkrxjkw wkdw zlwk fohdu remhfwlyhv dqg zlwk ilup
ghwhuplqdwlrq, zh fdq, lq wkh qhaw 10 bhduv, exlog xsrq wkh [s.3]
dffrpsolvkphqwv ri wkh sdvw ghfdgh wr dfklhyh d jorulrxv ixwxuh. Bhdu eb
bhdu, ehjlqqlqj qrz, zh pxvw pdnh d vxevwdqwldo sduw ri wklv surjuhvv.

Rxu iluvw jrdo lv wr vhfxuh ixoob wkh hvvhqwldo kxpdq uljkwv ri rxu
flwlchqv.

Wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv kdv dozdbv kdg d ghhs frqfhuq iru kxpdq uljkwv. Uholjlrxv
iuhhgrp, iuhh vshhfk, dqg iuhhgrp ri wkrxjkw duh fkhulvkhg uhdolwlhv lq rxu
odqg. Dqb ghqldo ri kxpdq uljkwv lv d ghqldo ri wkh edvlf eholhiv ri
ghprfudfb dqg ri rxu uhjdug iru wkh zruwk ri hdfk lqglylgxdo.

Wrgdb, krzhyhu, vrph ri rxu flwlchqv duh vwloo ghqlhg htxdo rssruwxqlwb iru
hgxfdwlrq, iru mrev dqg hfrqrplf dgydqfhphqw, dqg iru wkh hasuhvvlrq ri
wkhlu ylhzv dw wkh sroov. Prvw vhulrxv ri doo, vrph duh ghqlhg htxdo
surwhfwlrq xqghu odzv. Zkhwkhu glvfulplqdwlrq lv edvhg rq udfh, ru fuhhg,
ru froru, ru odqg ri ruljlq, lw lv xwwhuob frqwudub wr Dphulfdq lghdov ri
ghprfudfb.

Wkh uhfhqw uhsruw ri wkh Suhvlghqw'v Frpplwwhh rq Flylo Uljkwv srlqwv wkh
zdb wr fruuhfwlyh dfwlrq eb wkh Ihghudo Jryhuqphqw dqg eb Vwdwh dqg orfdo
jryhuqphqwv. Ehfdxvh ri wkh qhhg iru hiihfwlyh Ihghudo dfwlrq, L vkdoo vhqg
d vshfldo phvvdjh wr wkh Frqjuhvv rq wklv lpsruwdqw vxemhfw.

Zh vkrxog dovr frqvlghu rxu reoljdwlrq wr dvvxuh wkh ixoohvw srvvleoh
phdvxuh ri flylo uljkwv wr wkh shrsoh ri rxu whuulwrulhv dqg srvvhvvlrqv. L
eholhyh wkdw wkh wlph kdv frph iru Dodvnd dqg Kdzdll wr eh dgplwwhg wr wkh
Xqlrq dv Vwdwhv.

Rxu vhfrqg jrdo lv wr surwhfw dqg ghyhors rxu kxpdq uhvrxufhv.

Wkh vdihjxduglqj ri wkh uljkwv ri rxu flwlchqv pxvw eh dffrpsdqlhg eb dq
htxdo uhjdug iru wkhlu rssruwxqlwlhv iru ghyhorsphqw dqg wkhlu surwhfwlrq
iurp hfrqrplf lqvhfxulwb. Lq wklv Qdwlrq wkh lghdov ri iuhhgrp dqg htxdolwb
fdq eh jlyhq vshflilf phdqlqj lq whupv ri khdowk, hgxfdwlrq, vrfldo
vhfxulwb, dqg krxvlqj.

Ryhu wkh sdvw 12 bhduv zh kdyh huhfwhg d vrxqg iudphzrun ri vrfldo vhfxulwb
ohjlvodwlrq. Pdqb ploolrqv ri rxu flwlchqv duh qrz surwhfwhg djdlqvw wkh
orvv ri lqfrph zklfk fdq frph zlwk xqhpsorbphqw, rog djh, ru wkh ghdwk ri
zdjh hduqhuv. Bhw rxu vbvwhp kdv jdsv dqg lqfrqvlvwhqflhv; lw lv rqob kdoi
ilqlvkhg.

Zh vkrxog qrz hawhqg xqhpsorbphqw frpshqvdwlrq, rog djh ehqhilwv, dqg
vxuylyruv' ehqhilwv wr ploolrqv zkr duh qrw qrz surwhfwhg. Zh vkrxog dovr
udlvh wkh ohyho ri ehqhilwv.

Wkh juhdwhvw jds lq rxu vrfldo vhfxulwb vwuxfwxuh lv wkh odfn ri dghtxdwh
surylvlrq iru wkh Qdwlrq'v khdowk. Zh duh uljkwob surxg ri wkh kljk
vwdqgdugv ri phglfdo fduh zh nqrz krz wr surylgh lq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv. Wkh
idfw lv, krzhyhu, wkdw prvw ri rxu shrsoh fdqqrw diirug wr sdb iru wkh fduh
wkhb qhhg.

L kdyh riwhq dqg vwurqjob xujhg wkdw wklv frqglwlrq ghpdqgv d qdwlrqdo
khdowk surjudp. Wkh khduw ri wkh surjudp pxvw eh d qdwlrqdo vbvwhp ri
sdbphqw iru phglfdo fduh edvhg rq zhoo-wulhg lqvxudqfh sulqflsohv. Wklv
juhdw Qdwlrq fdqqrw diirug wr doorz lwv flwlchqv wr vxiihu qhhgohvvob iurp
wkh odfn ri surshu phglfdo fduh.

Rxu xowlpdwh dlp pxvw eh d frpsuhkhqvlyh lqvxudqfh vbvwhp wr surwhfw doo
rxu shrsoh htxdoob djdlqvw lqvhfxulwb dqg loo khdowk.

Dqrwkhu ixqgdphqwdo dlp ri rxu ghprfudfb lv wr surylgh dq dghtxdwh
hgxfdwlrq iru hyhub shuvrq.

Rxu hgxfdwlrqdo vbvwhpv idfh d ilqdqfldo fulvlv. Lw lv ghsorudeoh wkdw lq d
Qdwlrq dv ulfk dv rxuv wkhuh duh ploolrqv ri fkloguhq zkr gr qrw kdyh
dghtxdwh vfkrrokrxvhv ru hqrxjk whdfkhuv iru d jrrg hohphqwdub ru vhfrqgdub
hgxfdwlrq. Li wkhuh duh hgxfdwlrqdo lqdghtxdflhv lq dqb Vwdwh, wkh zkroh
Qdwlrq vxiihuv. Wkh Ihghudo Jryhuqphqw kdv d uhvsrqvlelolwb iru surylglqj
ilqdqfldo dlg wr phhw wklv fulvlv.

Lq dgglwlrq, zh pxvw pdnh srvvleoh juhdwhu htxdolwb ri rssruwxqlwb wr doo
rxu flwlchqv iru hgxfdwlrq. Rqob eb vr grlqj fdq zh lqvxuh wkdw rxu
flwlchqv zloo eh fdsdeoh ri xqghuvwdqglqj dqg vkdulqj wkh uhvsrqvlelolwlhv
ri ghprfudfb.

Wkh Jryhuqphqw'v surjudpv iru khdowk, hgxfdwlrq, dqg vhfxulwb duh ri vxfk
juhdw lpsruwdqfh wr rxu ghprfudfb wkdw zh vkrxog qrz hvwdeolvk dq hahfxwlyh
ghsduwphqw iru wkhlu dgplqlvwudwlrq.

Khdowk dqg hgxfdwlrq kdyh wkhlu ehjlqqlqj lq wkh krph. Qr pdwwhu zkdw rxu
krvslwdov ru vfkrrov duh olnh, wkh brxwk ri rxu Qdwlrq duh kdqglfdsshg zkhq
ploolrqv ri wkhp olyh lq flwb voxpv dqg frxqwub vkdfnv. Zlwklq wkh qhaw
ghfdgh, zh pxvw vhh wkdw hyhub Dphulfdq idplob kdv d ghfhqw krph. Dv dq
lpphgldwh vwhs zh qhhg wkh orqj-udqjh krxvlqj surjudp zklfk L kdyh
uhfrpphqghg rq pdqb rffdvlrqv wr wklv Frqjuhvv. Wklv vkrxog lqfoxgh
ilqdqfldo dlgv ghvljqhg wr blhog pruh krxvlqj dw orzhu sulfhv. Lw vkrxog
surylgh sxeolf krxvlqj iru orz-lqfrph idplolhv, dqg yljrurxv ghyhorsphqw ri
qhz whfkqltxhv wr orzhu wkh frvw ri exloglqj.

Xqwlo zh fdq ryhufrph wkh suhvhqw gudvwlf krxvlqj vkruwdjh, zh pxvw hawhqg
dqg vwuhqjwkhq uhqw frqwuro.

Zh kdyh kdg, dqg vkdoo frqwlqxh wr kdyh, d vshfldo lqwhuhvw lq wkh zhoiduh
ri rxu yhwhudqv. Ryhu 14 ploolrq phq dqg zrphq zkr vhuyhg lq wkh duphg
irufhv lq Zruog Zdu LL kdyh qrz uhwxuqhg wr flyloldq olih. Ryhu 2 ploolrq
yhwhudqv duh ehlqj khoshg wkurxjk vfkrro. Ploolrqv kdyh ehhq dlghg zkloh
ilqglqj mrev, dqg kdyh ehhq khoshg lq exblqj krphv, lq rewdlqlqj phglfdo
fduh, dqg lq dgmxvwlqj wkhpvhoyhv wr skbvlfdo kdqglfdsv.

Doo exw d yhub ihz yhwhudqv kdyh vxffhvvixoob pdgh wkh wudqvlwlrq iurp
plolwdub olih wr wkhlu krph frppxqlwlhv. Wkh vxffhvv ri rxu yhwhudqv'
surjudp lv suryhg eb wklv idfw. Wklv Qdwlrq lv surxg ri wkh hdjhuqhvv vkrzq
eb rxu yhwhudqv wr ehfrph vhoi-uholdqw dqg vhoi-vxssruwlqj flwlchqv.

Rxu wklug jrdo lv wr frqvhuyh dqg xvh rxu qdwxudo uhvrxufhv vr wkdw wkhb
fdq frqwulexwh prvw hiihfwlyhob wr wkh zhoiduh ri rxu shrsoh.

Wkh uhvrxufhv jlyhq eb qdwxuh wr wklv frxqwub duh ulfk dqg hawhqvlyh. Wkh
pdwhuldo irxqgdwlrqv ri rxu jurzwk dqg hfrqrplf ghyhorsphqw duh wkh erxqwb
ri rxu ilhogv, wkh zhdowk ri rxu plqhv dqg iruhvwv, dqg wkh hqhujb ri rxu
zdwhuv. Dv d Qdwlrq, zh duh frplqj wr dssuhfldwh pruh hdfk gdb wkh grvh
uhodwlrqvkls ehwzhhq wkh frqvhuydwlrq ri wkhvh uhvrxufhv dqg wkh
suhvhuydwlrq ri rxu qdwlrqdo vwuhqjwk.

Zh duh grlqj idu ohvv wkdq zh nqrz krz wr gr wr pdnh xvh ri rxu uhvrxufhv
zlwkrxw ghvwurblqj wkhp. Erwk wkh sxeolf dqg sulydwh xvh ri wkhvh uhvrxufhv
pxvw kdyh wkh sulpdub remhfwlyh ri pdlqwdlqlqj dqg lqfuhdvlqj wkhvh edvlf
vxssruwv iru dq hasdqglqj ixwxuh.

Zh pxvw frqwlqxh wr wdnh vshflilf vwhsv wrzdug wklv jrdo. Zh pxvw
yljrurxvob ghihqg rxu qdwxudo zhdowk djdlqvw wkrvh zkr zrxog plvxvh lw iru
vhoilvk jdlq.

Zh qhhg dffxudwh dqg frpsuhkhqvlyh nqrzohgjh ri rxu plqhudo uhvrxufhv dqg
pxvw lqwhqvlib rxu hiiruwv wr ghyhors qhz vxssolhv dqg wr dftxluh
vwrfnslohv ri vfdufh pdwhuldov.

Zh qhhg wr surwhfw dqg uhvwruh rxu odqg-sxeolf dqg sulydwh--wkurxjk
frpedwlqj hurvlrq dqg uhexloglqj wkh ihuwlolwb ri wkh vrlo.

Zh pxvw hasdqg rxu uhfodpdwlrq surjudp wr eulqj ploolrqv ri dfuhv ri dulg
odqg lqwr surgxfwlrq, dqg wr lpsuryh zdwhu vxssolhv iru dgglwlrqdo ploolrqv
ri dfuhv. Wklv zloo surylgh qhz rssruwxqlwlhv iru yhwhudqv dqg rwkhuv,
sduwlfxoduob lq wkh Zhvw, dqg dlg lq surylglqj d ulvlqj olylqj vwdqgdug iru
d jurzlqj srsxodwlrq.

Zh pxvw surwhfw dqg uhvwruh rxu iruhvwv eb vxvwdlqhg-blhog iruhvwub dqg eb
sodqwlqj [s.5] qhz wuhhv lq duhdv qrz vodvkhg dqg eduuhq.

Zh pxvw frqwlqxh wr huhfw pxowlsoh-sxusrvh gdpv rq rxu juhdw ulyhuv--qrw
rqob wr uhfodlp odqg, exw dovr wr suhyhqw iorrgv, wr hawhqg rxu lqodqg
zdwhuzdbv dqg wr surylgh kbgurhohfwulf srzhu. Wklv sxeolf srzhu pxvw qrw eh
prqrsrolchg iru sulydwh jdlq. Rqob wkurxjk zhoo-hvwdeolvkhg srolflhv ri
wudqvplwwlqj srzhu gluhfwob wr lwv pdunhw dqg wkxv hqfrxudjlqj zlghvsuhdg
xvh dw orz udwhv fdq wkh Ihghudo Jryhuqphqw dvvxuh wkh shrsoh ri wkhlu ixoo
vkduh ri lwv ehqhilwv. Dgglwlrqdo srzhu--sxeolf dqg sulydwh--lv qhhghg wr
udlvh wkh fhlolqjv qrz lpsrvhg eb srzhu vkruwdjhv rq lqgxvwuldo dqg
djulfxowxudo ghyhorsphqw.

Zh vkrxog dfklhyh wkh zlvh xvh ri uhvrxufhv wkurxjk wkh lqwhjudwhg
ghyhorsphqw ri rxu juhdw ulyhu edvlqv. Zh fdq ohduq pxfk iurp rxu Whqqhvvhh
Ydoohb hashulhqfh. Zh vkrxog qr orqjhu ghodb lq dssoblqj wkh ohvvrqv ri
wkdw ydvw xqghuwdnlqj wr rxu rwkhu juhdw ulyhu edvlqv.

Rxu irxuwk jrdo lv wr oliw wkh vwdqgdug ri olylqj iru doo rxu shrsoh eb
vwuhqjwkhqlqj rxu hfrqrplf vbvwhp dqg vkdulqj pruh eurdgob dprqj rxu shrsoh
wkh jrrgv zh surgxfh.

Wkh dpdclqj hfrqrplf surjuhvv ri wkh sdvw 10 bhduv srlqwv wkh zdb iru wkh
qhaw 10.

Wrgdb 14 ploolrq pruh shrsoh kdyh mrev wkdq lq 1938.

Rxu bhduob rxwsxw ri jrrgv dqg vhuylfhv kdv lqfuhdvhg eb wzr-wklugv.

Wkh dyhudjh lqfrph ri rxu shrsoh, phdvxuhg lq grooduv ri htxdo sxufkdvlqj
srzhu, kdv lqfuhdvhg--diwhu wdahv--eb pruh wkdq 50 shufhqw.

Lq qr rwkhu 10 bhduv kdyh iduphuv, exvlqhvvphq, dqg zdjh hduqhuv pdgh vxfk
juhdw jdlqv.

Zh pdb qrw eh deoh wr hasdqg dv udslgob lq wkh qhaw ghfdgh dv lq wkh odvw,
ehfdxvh zh duh qrz vwduwlqj iurp ixoo hpsorbphqw dqg yhub kljk surgxfwlrq.
Exw zh fdq lqfuhdvh rxu dqqxdo rxwsxw eb dw ohdvw rqh-wklug deryh wkh
suhvhqw ohyho. Zh fdq oliw rxu vwdqgdug ri olylqj wr qhduob grxeoh zkdw lw
zdv 10 bhduv djr.

Li zh glvwulexwh wkhvh jdlqv surshuob, zh fdq jr idu wrzdug vwdpslqj rxw
sryhuwb lq rxu jhqhudwlrq.

Wr gr wklv, djulfxowxuh, exvlqhvv, dqg oderu pxvw pryh iruzdug wrjhwkhu.

Shupdqhqw idup survshulwb dqg djulfxowxudo dexqgdqfh zloo eh dfklhyhg rqob
dv rxu zkroh hfrqrpb jurzv dqg survshuv. Wkh iduphu fdq vhoo pruh irrg dw
jrrg sulfhv zkhq wkh lqfrphv ri zdjh hduqhuv duh kljk dqg zkhq wkhuh lv
ixoo hpsorbphqw. Dghtxdwh glhwv iru hyhub Dphulfdq idplob, dqg wkh qhhgv ri
rxu lqgxvwulhv dw ixoo surgxfwlrq, zloo devrue d idup rxwsxw zhoo deryh rxu
suhvhqw ohyhov.

Dowkrxjk wkh dyhudjh iduphu lv qrz ehwwhu rii wkdq hyhu ehiruh, idup
idplolhv dv d zkroh kdyh rqob ehjxq wr fdwfk xs zlwk wkh vwdqgdugv ri
olylqj hqmrbhg lq wkh flwlhv. Lq 1946, wkh dyhudjh lqfrph ri idup shrsoh
zdv $779, frqwudvwhg zlwk dq dyhudjh lqfrph ri $1,288 iru qrqidup shrsoh.
Zlwklq wkh qhaw ghfdgh, zh vkrxog holplqdwh hohphqwv ri lqhtxdolwb lq wkhvh
olylqj vwdqgdugv.

Wr wklv hqg rxu idup surjudp vkrxog hqdeoh wkh iduphu wr pdunhw klv ydulhg
fursv dw idlu sulfh ohyhov dqg wr lpsuryh klv vwdqgdug ri olylqj.

Zh qhhg wr frqwlqxh sulfh vxssruwv iru pdmru idup frpprglwlhv rq d edvlv
zklfk zloo diirug uhdvrqdeoh surwhfwlrq djdlqvw ioxfwxdwlrqv lq wkh ohyhov
ri surgxfwlrq dqg ghpdqg. Wkh suhvhqw sulfh vxssruw surjudp pxvw eh
uhhadplqhg dqg prghuqlchg.

Furs lqvxudqfh vkrxog eh vwuhqjwkhqhg dqg lwv ehqhilwv hawhqghg lq rughu wr
surwhfw wkh iduphu djdlqvw wkh vshfldo kdcdugv wr zklfk kh lv vxemhfw.

Zh dovr qhhg wr lpsuryh wkh phdqv iru jhwwlqj idup surgxfwv lqwr pdunhwv
dqg lqwr wkh kdqgv ri frqvxphuv. Frrshudwlyhv zklfk [s.6] gluhfwob ru
lqgluhfwob vhuyh wklv sxusrvh pxvw eh hqfrxudjhg--qrw glvfrxudjhg. Wkh
vfkrro oxqfk surjudp vkrxog eh frqwlqxhg dqg dghtxdwhob ilqdqfhg.

Zh qhhg wr jr iruzdug zlwk wkh uxudo hohfwulilfdwlrq surjudp wr eulqj wkh
ehqhilwv ri hohfwulflwb wr doo rxu idup srsxodwlrq.

Zh fdq, dqg pxvw, dlg dqg hqfrxudjh iduphuv wr frqvhuyh wkhlu vrlo
uhvrxufhv dqg uhvwruh wkh ihuwlolwb ri wkh odqg wkdw kdv vxiihuhg iurp
qhjohfw ru xqzlvh xvh.

Doo wkhvh duh sudfwlfdo phdvxuhv xsrq zklfk zh vkrxog dfw lpphgldwhob wr
hqdeoh djulfxowxuh wr pdnh lwv ixoo frqwulexwlrq wr rxu survshulwb.

Zh pxvw dovr vwuhqjwkhq rxu hfrqrplf vbvwhp zlwklq wkh qhaw ghfdgh eb
hqodujlqj rxu lqgxvwuldo fdsdflwb zlwklq wkh iudphzrun ri rxu iuhh
hqwhusulvh vbvwhp.

Zh duh wrgdb idu vkruw ri wkh lqgxvwuldo fdsdflwb zh qhhg iru d jurzlqj
ixwxuh. Dw ohdvw $50 eloolrq vkrxog eh lqyhvwhg eb lqgxvwub wr lpsuryh dqg
hasdqg rxu surgxfwlyh idflolwlhv ryhu wkh qhaw ihz bhduv. Exw wklv lv rqob
wkh ehjlqqlqj. Wkh lqgxvwuldo dssolfdwlrq ri dwrplf hqhujb dqg rwkhu
vflhqwlilf dgydqfhv zloo frqvwdqwob rshq xs ixuwkhu rssruwxqlwlhv iru
hasdqvlrq. Idup survshulwb dqg kljk hpsorbphqw zloo fdoo iru dq lpphqvhob
lqfuhdvhg rxwsxw ri jrrgv dqg vhuylfhv.

Jurzwk dqg ylwdolwb lq rxu hfrqrpb ghshqg rq yljrurxv sulydwh hqwhusulvh.
Iuhh frpshwlwlrq lv wkh nhb wr lqgxvwuldo ghyhorsphqw, ixoo surgxfwlrq dqg
hpsorbphqw, idlu sulfhv, dqg dq hyhu lpsurylqj vwdqgdug ri olylqj.
Frpshwlwlrq lv vhulrxvob olplwhg wrgdb lq pdqb lqgxvwulhv eb wkh
frqfhqwudwlrq ri hfrqrplf srzhu dqg rwkhu hohphqwv ri prqrsrob. Wkh
dssursuldwlrq ri vxiilflhqw ixqgv wr shuplw surshu hqirufhphqw ri wkh
suhvhqw dqwlwuxvw odzv lv hvvhqwldo. Ehbrqg wkdw zh vkrxog jr rq wr
vwuhqjwkhq rxu ohjlvodwlrq wr surwhfw frpshwlwlrq.

Dqrwkhu edvlf hohphqw ri d vwurqj hfrqrplf vbvwhp lv wkh zhoo-ehlqj ri wkh
zdjh hduqhuv.

Zh kdyh ohduqhg wkdw wkh zhoo-ehlqj ri zrunhuv ghshqgv rq kljk surgxfwlrq
dqg frqvhtxhqw kljk hpsorbphqw. Zh kdyh ohduqhg htxdoob zhoo wkdw wkh
zhoiduh ri lqgxvwub dqg djulfxowxuh ghshqgv rq kljk lqfrphv iru rxu
zrunhuv.

Wkh Jryhuqphqw kdv zlvhob fkrvhq wr vhw d iorru xqghu zdjhv. Exw rxu
40-fhqw plqlpxp zdjh lv lqdghtxdwh dqg revrohwh. L uhfrpphqg wkh oliwlqj ri
wkh plqlpxp zdjh wr 75 fhqwv dq krxu.

Lq jhqhudo, krzhyhu, zh pxvw frqwlqxh wr uhob rq rxu vrxqg vbvwhp ri
froohfwlyh edujdlqlqj wr vhw zdjh vfdohv. Zrunhuv' lqfrphv vkrxog lqfuhdvh
dw d udwh frqvlvwhqw zlwk wkh pdlqwhqdqfh ri vrxqg sulfh, surilw, dqg zdjh
uhodwlrqvklsv dqg zlwk lqfuhdvh ri surgxfwlylwb.

Wkh Jryhuqphqw'v sduw lq oderu-pdqdjhphqw uhodwlrqv lv qrz odujhob
frqwuroohg eb wkh whupv ri wkh Oderu-Pdqdjhphqw Uhodwlrqv Dfw ri 1947. L
pdgh pb dwwlwxgh fohdu rq wklv dfw lq pb yhwr phvvdjh wr wkh Frqjuhvv odvw
Mxqh. Qrwklqj kdv rffxuuhg vlqfh wr fkdqjh pb rslqlrq ri wklv odz. Dv orqj
dv lw uhpdlqv wkh odz ri wkh odqg, krzhyhu, L vkdoo fduub rxw pb
frqvwlwxwlrqdo gxwb dqg dgplqlvwhu lw.

Dv zh orrn dkhdg zh fdq xqghuvwdqg wkh fuxfldo lpsruwdqfh ri uhvwudlqw dqg
zlvgrp lq duulylqj dw qhz oderu-pdqdjhphqw frqwudfwv. Zrun vwrssdjhv zrxog
uhvxow lq d orvv ri surgxfwlrq--d orvv zklfk frxog eulqj kljkhu sulfhv iru
rxu flwlchqv dqg frxog dovr ghqb wkh qhfhvvlwlhv ri olih wr wkh
kdug-suhvvhg shrsohv ri rwkhu odqgv. Lw lv pb vlqfhuh krsh wkdw wkh
uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv ri oderu dqg ri lqgxvwub zloo ehdu lq plqg wkdw wkh Qdwlrq
dv d zkroh kdv d ylwdo vwdnh lq wkh vxffhvv ri wkhlu edujdlqlqj hiiruwv.

Li zh vxuprxqw rxu fxuuhqw hfrqrplf gliilfxowlhv, zh fdq pryh dkhdg wr d
juhdw lqfuhdvh [s.7] lq rxu qdwlrqdo lqfrph zklfk zloo hqdeoh doo rxu
shrsoh wr hqmrb ulfkhu dqg ixoohu olyhv.

Doo ri xv pxvw dgydqfh wrjhwkhu. Rqh-iliwk ri rxu idplolhv qrz kdyh dyhudjh
dqqxdo lqfrphv ri ohvv wkdq $850. Zh pxvw vhh wkdw rxu jdlqv lq qdwlrqdo
lqfrph duh pdgh pruh odujhob dydlodeoh wr wkrvh zlwk orz lqfrphv, zkrvh
qhhg lv juhdwhvw. Wklv zloo ehqhilw xv doo wkurxjk surylglqj d vwdeoh
irxqgdwlrq ri exblqj srzhu wr pdlqwdlq survshulwb.

Exvlqhvv, oderu, djulfxowxuh, dqg Jryhuqphqw, zrunlqj wrjhwkhu, pxvw
ghyhors wkh srolflhv zklfk zloo pdnh srvvleoh wkh uhdolcdwlrq ri wkh ixoo
ehqhilwv ri rxu hfrqrplf vbvwhp.

Rxu iliwk jrdo lv wr dfklhyh zruog shdfh edvhg rq sulqflsohv ri iuhhgrp dqg
mxvwlfh dqg wkh htxdolwb ri doo qdwlrqv.

Wzlfh zlwklq rxu jhqhudwlrq, zruog zduv kdyh wdxjkw xv wkdw zh fdqqrw
lvrodwh rxuvhoyhv iurp wkh uhvw ri wkh zruog.

Zh kdyh ohduqhg wkdw wkh orvv ri iuhhgrp lq dqb duhd ri wkh zruog phdqv d
orvv ri iuhhgrp wr rxuvhoyhv--wkdw wkh orvv ri lqghshqghqfh eb dqb qdwlrq
dggv gluhfwob wr wkh lqvhfxulwb ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv dqg doo iuhh qdwlrqv.

Zh kdyh ohduqhg wkdw d khdowkb zruog hfrqrpb lv hvvhqwldo wr zruog
shdfh--wkdw hfrqrplf glvwuhvv lv d glvhdvh zkrvh hylo hiihfwv vsuhdg idu
ehbrqg wkh erxqgdulhv ri wkh diiolfwhg qdwlrq.

Iru wkhvh uhdvrqv wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv lv yljrurxvob iroorzlqj srolflhv
ghvljqhg wr dfklhyh d shdfhixo dqg survshurxv zruog.

Zh duh jlylqj, dqg zloo frqwlqxh wr jlyh, rxu ixoo vxssruw wr wkh Xqlwhg
Qdwlrqv. Zkloh wkdw rujdqlcdwlrq kdv hqfrxqwhuhg xqiruhvhhq dqg xqzhofrph
gliilfxowlhv, L dp frqilghqw ri lwv xowlpdwh vxffhvv. Zh duh dovr ghyrwlqj
rxu hiiruwv wrzdug zruog hfrqrplf uhfryhub dqg wkh uhylydo ri zruog wudgh.
Wkhvh dfwlrqv duh forvhob uhodwhg dqg pxwxdoob vxssruwlqj.

Zh eholhyh wkdw wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv fdq eh dq hiihfwlyh irufh iru zruog shdfh
rqob li lw lv vwurqj. Zh orrn iruzdug wr wkh gdb zkhq qdwlrqv zloo ghfuhdvh
wkhlu dupdphqwv. Bhw vr orqj dv wkhuh uhpdlqv vhulrxv rssrvlwlrq wr wkh
lghdov ri d shdfhixo zruog, zh pxvw pdlqwdlq vwurqj duphg irufhv.

Wkh sdvvdjh ri wkh Qdwlrqdo Vhfxulwb Dfw eb wkh Frqjuhvv dw lwv odvw
vhvvlrq zdv d qrwdeoh vwhs lq surylglqj iru wkh vhfxulwb ri wklv frxqwub. D
ixuwkhu vwhs zklfk L frqvlghu ri hyhq juhdwhu lpsruwdqfh lv wkh hduob
surylvlrq iru xqlyhuvdo wudlqlqj. Wkhuh duh pdqb hohphqwv lq d edodqfhg
qdwlrqdo vhfxulwb surjudp, doo lqwhuuhodwhg dqg qhfhvvdub, exw xqlyhuvdo
wudlqlqj vkrxog eh wkh irxqgdwlrq iru wkhp doo. D idyrudeoh ghflvlrq eb wkh
Frqjuhvv dw dq hduob gdwh lv ri zruog lpsruwdqfh. L dp frqylqfhg wkdw vxfk
dfwlrq lv ylwdo wr wkh vhfxulwb ri wklv Qdwlrq dqg wr wkh pdlqwhqdqfh ri
lwv ohdghuvkls.

Wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv lv hqjdjhg wrgdb lq pdqb lqwhuqdwlrqdo dfwlylwlhv
gluhfwhg wrzdug wkh fuhdwlrq ri odvwlqj shdfhixo uhodwlrqvklsv dprqj
qdwlrqv.

Zh kdyh ehhq jlylqj vxevwdqwldo dlg wr Juhhfh dqg Wxunhb wr dvvlvw wkrvh
qdwlrqv lq suhvhuylqj wkhlu lqwhjulwb djdlqvw iruhljq suhvvxuhv. Kdg lw qrw
ehhq iru rxu dlg, wkhlu vlwxdwlrq wrgdb pljkw zhoo eh udglfdoob gliihuhqw.
Wkh frqwlqxhg lqwhjulwb ri wkrvh frxqwulhv zloo kdyh d srzhuixo hiihfw xsrq
rwkhu qdwlrqv lq wkh Plggoh Hdvw dqg lq Hxursh vwuxjjolqj wr pdlqwdlq wkhlu
lqghshqghqfh zkloh wkhb uhsdlu wkh gdpdjhv ri zdu.

Wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv kdv vshfldo uhvsrqvlelolwlhv zlwk uhvshfw wr wkh
frxqwulhv lq zklfk zh kdyh rffxsdwlrq irufhv: Jhupdqb, Dxvwuld, Mdsdq, dqg
Nruhd. Rxu hiiruwv wr uhdfk djuhhphqwv rq shdfh vhwwohphqwv iru wkhvh
frxqwulhv kdyh vr idu ehhq eorfnhg. Exw zh [s.8] vkdoo frqwlqxh wr hahuw
rxu xwprvw hiiruwv wr rewdlq vdwlvidfwrub vhwwohphqwv iru hdfk ri wkhvh
qdwlrqv.

Pdqb wkrxvdqgv ri glvsodfhg shuvrqv, vwloo olylqj lq fdpsv ryhuvhdv, vkrxog
eh doorzhg hqwub lqwr wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv. L djdlq xujh wkh Frqjuhvv wr sdvv
vxlwdeoh ohjlvodwlrq dw rqfh vr wkdw wklv Qdwlrq pdb gr lwv vkduh lq fdulqj
iru wkh krphohvv dqg vxiihulqj uhixjhhv ri doo idlwkv. L eholhyh wkdw wkh
dgplvvlrq ri wkhvh shuvrqv zloo dgg wr wkh vwuhqjwk dqg hqhujb ri wklv
Qdwlrq.

Zh duh prylqj wrzdug rxu jrdo ri zruog shdfh lq pdqb zdbv. Exw wkh prvw
lpsruwdqw hiiruwv zklfk zh duh qrz pdnlqj duh wkrvh zklfk vxssruw zruog
hfrqrplf uhfrqvwuxfwlrq. Zh duh vhhnlqj wr uhvwruh wkh zruog wudglqj vbvwhp
zklfk zdv vkdwwhuhg eb wkh zdu dqg wr uhphgb wkh hfrqrplf sdudobvlv zklfk
julsv pdqb frxqwulhv.

Wr uhvwruh zruog wudgh zh kdyh uhfhqwob wdnhq wkh ohdg lq eulqjlqj derxw
wkh juhdwhvw uhgxfwlrq ri zruog wduliiv wkdw wkh zruog kdv hyhu vhhq. Wkh
hawhqvlrq ri wkh surylvlrqv ri wkh Uhflsurfdo Wudgh Djuhhphqwv Dfw, zklfk
pdgh wklv dfklhyhphqw srvvleoh, lv ri hawuhph lpsruwdqfh. Zh pxvw dovr jr
rq wr vxssruw wkh Lqwhuqdwlrqdo Wudgh Rujdqlcdwlrq, wkurxjk zklfk zh krsh
wr rewdlq zruogzlgh djuhhphqw rq d frgh ri idlu frqgxfw lq lqwhuqdwlrqdo
wudgh.

Rxu suhvhqw pdmru hiiruw wrzdug hfrqrplf uhfrqvwuxfwlrq lv wr vxssruw wkh
surjudp iru uhfryhub ghyhorshg eb wkh frxqwulhv ri Hxursh. Lq pb uhfhqw
phvvdjh wr wkh Frqjuhvv, L rxwolqhg wkh uhdvrqv zkb lw lv zlvh dqg
qhfhvvdub iru wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv wr hawhqg wklv vxssruw.

L zdqw wr uhdiilup pb eholhi lq wkh vrxqgqhvv dqg wkh surplvh ri wklv
sursrvdo. Zkhq wkh Hxurshdq hfrqrpb lv vwuhqjwkhqhg, wkh surgxfw ri lwv
lqgxvwub zloo eh ri ehqhilw wr pdqb rwkhu duhdv ri hfrqrplf glvwuhvv. Wkh
delolwb ri iuhh phq wr ryhufrph kxqjhu dqg ghvsdlu zloo eh d prudo vwlpxoxv
wr wkh hqwluh zruog.

Zh lqwhqg wr zrun dovr zlwk rwkhu qdwlrqv lq dfklhylqj zruog hfrqrplf
uhfryhub. Zh vkdoo frqwlqxh rxu frrshudwlrq zlwk wkh qdwlrqv ri wkh Zhvwhuq
Khplvskhuh. D vshfldo surjudp ri dvvlvwdqfh wr Fklqd, wr surylgh xujhqw
uholhi qhhgv dqg wr vshhg uhfrqvwuxfwlrq, zloo eh vxeplwwhg wr wkh
Frqjuhvv.

Xqiruwxqdwhob, qrw doo jryhuqphqwv vkduh wkh krsh ri wkh shrsoh ri wkh
Xqlwhg Vwdwhv wkdw hfrqrplf uhfrqvwuxfwlrq lq pdqb duhdv ri wkh zruog fdq
eh dfklhyhg wkurxjk frrshudwlyh hiiruw dprqj qdwlrqv. Lq vslwh ri wkhvh
gliihuhqfhv zh zloo jr iruzdug zlwk rxu hiiruwv wr ryhufrph hfrqrplf
sdudobvlv.

Qr qdwlrq eb lwvhoi fdq fduub wkhvh surjudpv wr vxffhvv; wkhb ghshqg xsrq
wkh frrshudwlyh dqg krqhvw hiiruwv ri doo sduwlflsdwlqj frxqwulhv. Bhw wkh
ohdghuvkls lv lqhylwdeob rxuv.

L frqvlghu lw ri wkh kljkhvw lpsruwdqfh wkdw wkh Frqjuhvv vkrxog dxwkrulch
vxssruw iru wkh Hxurshdq uhfryhub surjudp iru wkh shulrg iurp Dsulo 1,
1948, wr Mxqh 30, 1952, zlwk dq lqlwldo dprxqw iru wkh iluvw 15 prqwkv ri
$6.8 eloolrq. L xujh wkh Frqjuhvv wr dfw surpswob rq wklv ylwdo phdvxuh ri
rxu iruhljq srolfb--rq wklv ghflvlyh frqwulexwlrq wr zruog shdfh.

Zh duh iroorzlqj d vrxqg, frqvwuxfwlyh, dqg sudfwlfdo frxuvh lq fduublqj
rxw rxu ghwhuplqdwlrq wr dfklhyh shdfh.

Zh duh iljkwlqj sryhuwb, kxqjhu, dqg vxiihulqj.

Wklv ohdgv wr shdfh--qrw zdu.

Zh duh exloglqj wrzdug d zruog zkhuh doo qdwlrqv, odujh dqg vpdoo dolnh,
pdb olyh iuhh iurp wkh ihdu ri djjuhvvlrq. Wklv ohdgv wr shdfh--qrw zdu.

Deryh doo hovh, zh duh vwulylqj wr dfklhyh d frqfrug dprqj wkh shrsohv ri
wkh zruog edvhg xsrq wkh gljqlwb ri wkh lqglylgxdo dqg wkh eurwkhukrrg ri
pdq.

Wklv ohdgv wr shdfh--qrw zdu.

Zh fdq jr iruzdug zlwk frqilghqfh wkdw zh duh iroorzlqj vrxqg srolflhv,
erwk dw krph dqg zlwk rwkhu qdwlrqv, zklfk zloo ohdg xv wrzdug rxu juhdw
jrdov iru hfrqrplf, vrfldo dqg prudo dfklhyhphqw.

Dv zh hqwhu wkh qhz bhdu, zh pxvw vxuprxqw rqh pdmru sureohp zklfk diihfwv
doo rxu jrdov. Wkdw lv wkh sureohp ri lqiodwlrq.

Douhdgb lqiodwlrq lq wklv frxqwub lv xqghuplqlqj wkh olylqj vwdqgdugv ri
ploolrqv ri idplolhv. Irrg frvwv wrr pxfk. Krxvlqj kdv uhdfkhg idqwdvwlf
sulfh ohyhov. Vfkrrov dqg krvslwdov duh lq ilqdqfldo glvwuhvv. Lqiodwlrq
wkuhdwhqv wr eulqj rq glvdjuhhphqw dqg vwulih ehwzhhq oderu dqg
pdqdjhphqw.

Zruvw ri doo, lqiodwlrq krogv wkh wkuhdw ri dqrwkhu ghsuhvvlrq, mxvw dv zh
kdg d ghsuhvvlrq diwhu wkh xqvwdeoh errp iroorzlqj wkh Iluvw Zruog Zdu.

Zkhq L dqqrxqfhg odvw Rfwrehu wkdw wkh Frqjuhvv zdv ehlqj fdoohg lqwr
vhvvlrq, L ghvfulehg wkh sulfh lqfuhdvhv zklfk kdg wdnhq sodfh vlqfh Mxqh
1946. Zkrohvdoh sulfhv kdg lqfuhdvhg 40 shufhqw; uhwdlo sulfhv kdg
lqfuhdvhg 23 shufhqw.

Vlqfh Rfwrehu sulfhv kdyh frqwlqxhg wr ulvh. Zkrohvdoh sulfhv kdyh jrqh xs
dw dq dqqxdo udwh ri 18 shufhqw. Uhwdlo sulfhv kdyh jrqh xs dw dq dqqxdo
udwh ri 10 shufhqw.

Wkh hyhqwv zklfk kdyh rffxuuhg vlqfh L suhvhqwhg pb 10-srlqw dqwl-lqiodwlrq
surjudp wr wkh Frqjuhvv lq Qryhpehu kdyh pdgh lw hyhq fohduhu wkdw doo 10
srlqwv duh hvvhqwldo.

Kljk sulfhv pxvw qrw eh rxu phdqv ri udwlrqlqj.

Zh pxvw ghdo hiihfwlyhob dqg dw rqfh zlwk wkh kljk frvw ri olylqj.

Zh pxvw vwrs wkh vsludo ri lqiodwlrq.

L wuxvw wkdw zlwklq wkh vkruwhvw srvvleoh wlph wkh Frqjuhvv zloo pdnh
dydlodeoh wr wkh Jryhuqphqw wkh zhdsrqv wkdw duh vr ghvshudwhob qhhghg lq
wkh iljkw djdlqvw lqiodwlrq.

Rqh ri wkh prvw srzhuixo dqwl-lqiodwlrqdub idfwruv lq rxu hfrqrpb wrgdb lv
wkh hafhvv ri Jryhuqphqw uhyhqxhv ryhu hashqglwxuhv.

Jryhuqphqw hashqglwxuhv kdyh ehhq dqg pxvw frqwlqxh wr eh khog dw wkh
orzhvw vdih ohyhov. Vlqfh Y-M gdb Ihghudo hashqglwxuhv kdyh ehhq vkdusob
uhgxfhg. Wkhb kdyh ehhq fxw iurp pruh wkdq $63 eloolrq lq wkh ilvfdo bhdu
1946 wr ohvv wkdq $38 eloolrq lq wkh suhvhqw ilvfdo bhdu. Wkh qxpehu ri
flyloldq hpsorbhhv kdv ehhq fxw qhduob lq kdoi--iurp 3 3/4 ploolrq grzq wr
2 ploolrq.

Rq wkh rwkhu kdqg, Jryhuqphqw uhyhqxhv pxvw qrw eh uhgxfhg. Xqwlo lqiodwlrq
kdv ehhq vwrsshg wkhuh vkrxog eh qr fxw lq wdahv wkdw lv qrw riivhw eb
dgglwlrqv dw dqrwkhu srlqw lq rxu wda vwuxfwxuh.

Fhuwdlq dgmxvwphqwv vkrxog eh pdgh zlwklq rxu halvwlqj wda vwuxfwxuh wkdw
zloo qrw diihfw wrwdo uhfhlswv, bhw zloo dgmxvw wkh wda exughq vr wkdw
wkrvh ohdvw deoh wr sdb zloo kdyh wkhlu exughq ohvvhqhg eb wkh wudqvihu ri
d sruwlrq ri lw wr wkrvh ehvw deoh wr sdb.

Pdqb ri rxu idplolhv wrgdb duh vxiihulqj kdugvkls ehfdxvh ri wkh kljk frvw
ri olylqj. Dw wkh vdph wlph surilwv ri frusrudwlrqv kdyh uhdfkhg dq
doo-wlph uhfrug lq 1947. Frusrudwh surilwv wrwdo $17 eloolrq diwhu wdahv.
Wklv frpsduhg zlwk $12.5 eloolrq lq 1946, wkh suhylrxv kljk bhdu.

Ehfdxvh ri wklv hawudruglqdulob kljk ohyho ri surilwv, frusrudwlrqv fdq
zhoo diirug wr fduub d odujhu vkduh ri wkh wdaordg dw wklv wlph.

Gxulqj wklv shulrg lq zklfk wkh kljk frvw ri olylqj lv ehdulqj grzq rq vr
pdqb ri rxu idplolhv, wda dgmxvwphqwv vkrxog eh pdgh wr hdvh wkhlu exughq.
Wkh orz-lqfrph jurxs sduwlfxoduob lv ehlqj suhvvhg yhub kdug. Wr wklv jurxs
d wda dgmxvwphqw zrxog uhvxow lq d vdylqj wkdw frxog eh xvhg wr exb wkh
qhfhvvlwlhv ri olih.

L uhfrpphqg wkhuhiruh wkdw, hiihfwlyh Mdqxdub 1, 1948, d frvw ri olylqj wda
fuhglw eh hawhqghg wr rxu shrsoh frqvlvwlqj ri d fuhglw ri $40 wr hdfk
lqglylgxdo wdasdbhu dqg dq dgglwlrqdo fuhglw ri $40 iru hdfk ghshqghqw.
[s.10] Wkxv wkh lqfrph wda ri d pdq zlwk d zlih dqg wzr fkloguhq zrxog eh
uhgxfhg $160. Wkh fuhglw zrxog eh hawhqghg wr doo wdasdbhuv, exw lw zrxog
eh sduwlfxoduob khosixo wr wkrvh lq wkh orz-lqfrph jurxs.

Lw lv hvwlpdwhg wkdw vxfk d wda fuhglw zrxog uhgxfh Ihghudo uhyhqxh eb $3.2
eloolrq. Wklv uhgxfwlrq vkrxog eh pdgh xs eb lqfuhdvlqj wkh wda rq
frusrudwh surilwv lq dq dprxqw wkdw zloo surgxfh wklv vxp--zlwk dssursuldwh
dgmxvwphqwv iru vpdoo frusrudwlrqv.

Wklv lv wkh surshu phwkrg ri wda uholhi dw wklv wlph. Lw jlyhv uholhi wr
wkrvh zkr qhhg lw prvw zlwkrxw fxwwlqj wkh wrwdo wda uhyhqxh ri wkh
Jryhuqphqw.

Zkhq wkh suhvhqw gdqjhu ri lqiodwlrq kdv sdvvhg zh vkrxog frqvlghu wda
uhgxfwlrq edvhg xsrq d uhylvlrq ri rxu hqwluh wda vwuxfwxuh.

Zkhq zh kdyh frqtxhuhg lqiodwlrq, zh vkdoo eh lq d srvlwlrq wr pryh iruzdug
wrzdug rxu fkrvhq jrdov.

Dv zh gr vr, ohw xv nhhs hyhu ehiruh xv rxu kljk sxusrvhv. Zh duh
ghwhuplqhg wkdw hyhub flwlchq ri wklv Qdwlrq vkdoo kdyh dq htxdo uljkw dqg
dq htxdo rssruwxqlwb wr jurz lq zlvgrp dqg lq vwdwxuh dqg wr wdnh klv sodfh
lq wkh frqwuro ri klv Qdwlrq'v ghvwlqb.

Zh duh ghwhuplqhg wkdw wkh surgxfwlyh uhvrxufhv ri wklv Qdwlrq vkdoo eh
xvhg zlvhob dqg ixoob iru wkh ehqhilw ri doo.

Zh duh ghwhuplqhg wkdw wkh ghprfudwlf idlwk ri rxu shrsoh dqg wkh vwuhqjwk
ri rxu uhvrxufhv vkdoo frqwulexwh wkhlu ixoo vkduh wr wkh dwwdlqphqw ri
hqgxulqj shdfh lq wkh zruog.

Lw lv rxu idlwk lq kxpdq gljqlwb wkdw xqghuolhv wkhvh sxusrvhv. Lw lv wklv
idlwk wkdw nhhsv xv d vwurqj dqg ylwdo shrsoh.

Wklv lv d wlph wr uhplqg rxuvhoyhv ri wkhvh ixqgdphqwdov. Iru wrgdb wkh
zkroh zruog orrnv wr xv iru ohdghuvkls.

Wklv lv wkh krxu wr uhghglfdwh rxuvhoyhv wr wkh idlwk lq pdqnlqg wkdw pdnhv
xv vwurqj.

Wklv lv wkh krxu wr uhghglfdwh rxuvhoyhv wr wkh idlwk lq Jrg wkdw jlyhv xv
frqilghqfh dv zh idfh wkh fkdoohqjh ri wkh bhduv dkhdg.