Di. Givjzuvek, Di. Jgvrbvi, Dvdsvij fw kyv Tfexivjj:

Z yrmv kyv yfefi kf ivgfik kf kyv Tfexivjj fe kyv jkrkv fw kyv Lezfe.

Rk kyv flkjvk, Z jyflcu czbv kf jgvrb fw kyv evtvjjzkp wfi glkkzex wzijk
kyzexj wzijk rj nv nfib kfxvkyvi kyzj pvri wfi kyv xffu fw fli tflekip.

Kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj reu kyv nyfcv wivv nficu riv grjjzex kyiflxy r gvizfu fw
xirmv urexvi. Vmvip rtkzfe pfl krbv yviv ze Tfexivjj, reu vmvip rtkzfe kyrk
Z krbv rj Givjzuvek, dljk sv dvrjlivu rxrzejk kyv kvjk fw nyvkyvi zk yvcgj
kf dvvk kyrk urexvi.

Kyzj nzcc sv r givjzuvekzrc vcvtkzfe pvri-kyv pvri ze nyzty gfczkztj gcrpj
r crixv grik ze fli czmvj--r crixvi grik kyre ljlrc. Kyrk zj gviwvtkcp
gifgvi. Slk nv yrmv r xivrkvi ivjgfejzszczkp kf tfeultk fli gfczkztrc
wzxykj ze r dreevi kyrk ufvj efk yrid kyv erkzferc zekvivjk.

Nv tre wzeu gcvekp fw kyzexj kf uzwwvi rsflk nzkyflk uvjkifpzex fli wivv
zejkzklkzfej reu nzkyflk rsreufezex fli szgrikzjre wfivzxe gfcztp wfi
gvrtv.

Nyve vmvipkyzex zj jrzu reu ufev, rcc fw lj--Ivglscztrej reu Uvdftirkj
rczbv--rcc fw lj riv Rdviztrej; reu nv riv rcc xfzex kf jzeb fi jnzd
kfxvkyvi.

Nv riv dfmzex kyiflxy r gvizcflj kzdv. Wrtvu nzky r kviizscv kyivrk fw
rxxivjjzfe, fli Erkzfe yrj vdsribvu lgfe r xivrk vwwfik kf yvcg vjkrsczjy
kyv bzeu fw nficu ze nyzty gvrtv jyrcc sv jvtliv. Gvrtv zj fli xfrc-efk
gvrtv rk rep giztv, slk r gvrtv srjvu fe wivvufd reu aljkztv. Nv riv efn ze
kyv dzujk fw fli vwwfik kf ivrty kyrk xfrc. Fe kyv nyfcv, nv yrmv svve
ufzex mvip nvcc.

Crjk pvri, 1951, nrj r pvri ze nyzty nv kyivn srtb rxxivjjzfe, ruuvu
xivrkcp kf fli dzczkrip jkivexky, reu zdgifmvu kyv tyretvj wfi gvrtv reu
wivvufd ze drep grikj fw kyv nficu.

Kyzj pvri, 1952, zj r tizkztrc pvri ze kyv uvwvejv vwwfik fw kyv nyfcv wivv
nficu. Zw nv wrckvi nv tre cfjv rcc kyv xrzej nv yrmv druv. Zw nv uizmv
ryvru, nzky tflirxv reu mzxfi reu uvkvidzerkzfe, nv tre sp kyv veu fw 1952
sv ze r gfjzkzfe fw dlty xivrkvi jvtlizkp. Kyv nrp nzcc sv urexviflj wfi
kyv pvrij ryvru, slk zw nv glk wfiky fli svjk vwwfikj kyzj pvri--reu evok
pvri--nv tre sv "fmvi kyv yldg" ze fli vwwfik kf slzcu jkifex uvwvejvj.

Nyve nv cffb rk kyv ivtfiu fw kyv grjk pvri, 1951, nv wzeu zdgfikrek kyzexj
fe sfky kyv tivuzk reu kyv uvszk jzuv fw kyv cvuxvi. Nv yrmv druv xivrk
rumretvj. Rk kyv jrdv kzdv nv yrmv ile zekf evn gifscvdj nyzty dljk sv
fmvitfdv.

Efn cvk lj cffb rk kyv tivuzk jzuv wzijk.

Gvrtv uvgveuj lgfe kyv wivv erkzfej jkztbzex kfxvkyvi, reu drbzex r
tfdszevu vwwfik kf tyvtb rxxivjjzfe reu givmvek nri. Ze kyzj ivjgvtk, 1951
nrj r pvri fw xivrk rtyzvmvdvek.

Ze Bfivr kyv wfitvj fw kyv Lezkvu Erkzfej klievu yrtb kyv Tyzevjv Tfddlezjk
zemrjzfe-reu uzu zk nzkyflk nzuvezex kyv rivr fw tfewcztk. Kyv rtkzfe fw
kyv Lezkvu Erkzfej ze Bfivr yrj svve r gfnviwlc uvkviivek kf r kyziu nficu
nri. Yfnvmvi, kyv jzklrkzfe ze Bfivr ivdrzej mvip yrqriuflj. Kyv flktfdv fw
kyv ridzjkztv evxfkzrkzfe jkzcc ivdrzej letvikrze.

Ze Zeuftyzer reu Drcrpr, fli rzu yrj yvcgvu fli rcczvj kf yfcu srtb kyv
Tfddlezjk rumretv, rckyflxy kyviv riv jzxej fw wlikyvi kiflscv ze kyrk
rivr.

Ze 1951 nv jkivexkyvevu kyv tyretvj fw gvrtv ze kyv Grtzwzt ivxzfe sp kyv
kivrkzvj nzky Argre reu kyv uvwvejv riirexvdvekj nzky Rljkirczr, Evn
Qvrcreu, reu kyv Gyzczggzevj.

Ze Vlifgv tfdszevu uvwvejv yrj svtfdv r ivrczkp. Kyv wivv erkzfej yrmv
tivrkvu r ivrc wzxykzex wfitv. Kyzj wfitv zj efk pvk rj jkifex rj zk evvuj
kf sv; slk zk zj rcivrup r ivrc fsjkrtcv kf rep rkkvdgk sp yfjkzcv wfitvj
kf jnvvg rtifjj Vlifgv kf kyv Rkcrekzt.

Ze 1951 nv rcjf dfmvu kf jkivexkyve kyv jvtlizkp fw Vlifgv sp kyv rxivvdvek
kf sizex Xivvtv reu Klibvp zekf kyv Efiky Rkcrekzt Kivrkp.

Kyv Lezkvu Erkzfej, kyv nficu'j xivrkvjk yfgv wfi gvrtv, yrj tfdv kyiflxy r
pvri fw kizrc jkifexvi reu dfiv ljvwlc kyre vmvi. Kyv wivv erkzfej yrmv
jkffu kfxvkyvi ze scftbzex Tfddlezjk rkkvdgkj kf kvri lg kyv tyrikvi.

Rk kyv givjvek jvjjzfe fw kyv Lezkvu Erkzfej ze Grizj, nv, kfxvkyvi nzky
kyv Sizkzjy reu kyv Wivety, fwwvivu r gcre kf ivultv reu tfekifc rcc
ridrdvekj leuvi r wffcgiffw zejgvtkzfe jpjkvd. Kyzj zj r tfetivkv,
girtkztrc gifgfjrc wfi uzjridrdvek.

Slk nyrk yrggvevu? Mzjyzejbp crlxyvu rk zk. Czjkve kf nyrk yv jrzu: "Z
tflcu yriucp jcvvg rk rcc crjk ezxyk .... Z tflcu efk jcvvg svtrljv Z bvgk
crlxyzex." Kyv nficu nzcc sv r cfex kzdv wfixvkkzex kyv jgvtkrtcv fw kyrk
wvccfn crlxyzex rk uzjridrdvek.

Uzjridrdvek zj efk r afbv. Mzjyzejbp'j crlxykvi dvk nzky jyftb reu rexvi
wifd kyv gvfgcv rcc fmvi kyv nficu. Reu, rj r ivjlck, Di. Jkrcze'j
ivgivjvekrkzmv ivtvzmvu fiuvij kf jkfg crlxyzex reu jkrik krcbzex.

Zw kyv Jfmzvk cvruvij nviv kf rttvgk kyzj gifgfjrc, zk nflcu czxykve kyv
sliuve fw ridrdvekj, reu gvidzk kyv ivjflitvj fw kyv vriky kf sv uvmfkvu kf
kyv xffu fw drebzeu. Slk lekzc kyv Jfmzvk Lezfe rttvgkj r jfleu uzjridrdvek
gifgfjrc, reu afzej ze gvrtvwlc jvkkcvdvekj, nv yrmv ef tyfztv votvgk kf
slzcu lg fli uvwvejvj.

Ulizex kyzj grjk pvri nv ruuvu dfiv kyre r dzcczfe dve reu nfdve kf fli
Ridvu Wfitvj. Kyv kfkrc zj efn evricp 3 1/2 dzcczfe. Nv yrmv druv irgzu
gifxivjj ze kyv wzvcu fw rkfdzt nvrgfej. Nv yrmv klievu flk szcczfe nfiky
fw dzczkrip jlggczvj reu vhlzgdvek, kyivv kzdvj rj dlty rj kyv pvri
svwfiv.

Vtfefdzt tfeuzkzfej ze kyv tflekip riv xffu. Kyviv riv 61 dzcczfe gvfgcv fe
kyv afs; nrxvj, wrid zetfdvj, reu sljzevjj gifwzkj riv rk yzxy cvmvcj.
Kfkrc gifultkzfe fw xffuj reu jvimztvj ze fli tflekip yrj zetivrjvu 8
gvitvek fmvi crjk pvri--rsflk knztv kyv efidrc irkv fw xifnky.

Gviyrgj kyv dfjk rdrqzex kyzex rsflk fli vtfefdzt gifxivjj zj kyv nrp nv
riv zetivrjzex fli srjzt trgrtzkp kf gifultv. Wfi vordgcv, nv riv efn ze
kyv jvtfeu pvri fw r 3-pvri gifxird nyzty nzcc uflscv fli flkglk fw
rcldzeld, zetivrjv fli vcvtkizt gfnvi jlggcp sp 40 gvitvek, reu zetivrjv
fli jkvvcdrbzex trgrtzkp sp 15 gvitvek. Nv tre kyve gifultv 120 dzcczfe
kfej fw jkvvc r pvri, rj dlty rj rcc kyv ivjk fw kyv nficu glk kfxvkyvi.

Kyzj vogrejzfe nzcc dvre dfiv afsj reu yzxyvi jkreuriuj fw czmzex wfi rcc
fw lj ze kyv pvrij ryvru. Rk kyv givjvek kzdv zk dvrej xivrkvi jkivexky wfi
lj reu wfi kyv ivjk fw kyv wivv nficu ze kyv wzxyk wfi gvrtv.

Efn, Z dljk klie kf kyv uvszk jzuv fw kyv cvuxvi wfi kyv grjk pvri.

Kyv flkjkreuzex wrtk kf efkv fe kyv uvszk jzuv fw kyv cvuxvi zj kyrk kyv
Jfmzvk Lezfe, ze 1951, tfekzelvu kf vogreu zkj dzczkrip gifultkzfe reu
zetivrjv zkj rcivrup votvjjzmv dzczkrip gfnvi.

Zk zj kilv kyrk kyv Jfmzvkj yrmv ile zekf zetivrjzex uzwwztlckzvj. Kyvzi
yfjkzcv gfcztzvj yrmv rnrbvevu jkvie ivjzjkretv rdfex wivv dve kyiflxyflk
kyv nficu. Reu svyzeu kyv Zife Tlikrze kyv Jfmzvk ilcv fw wfitv yrj tivrkvu
xifnzex gfczkztrc reu vtfefdzt jkivjjvj ze kyv jrkvcczkv erkzfej.

Evmvikyvcvjj, kyv xizd wrtk ivdrzej kyrk kyv Jfmzvk Lezfe zj zetivrjzex zkj
ridvu dzxyk. Zk zj jkzcc gifultzex dfiv nri gcrevj kyre kyv wivv erkzfej.
Zk yrj jvk fww knf dfiv rkfdzt vogcfjzfej. Kyv nficu jkzcc nrcbj ze kyv
jyrufn fw refkyvi nficu nri.

Reu yviv rk yfdv, fli uvwvejv givgrirkzfej riv wri wifd tfdgcvkv.

Ulizex 1951 nv uzu efk drbv ruvhlrkv gifxivjj ze slzcuzex lg tzmzc uvwvejv
rxrzejk rkfdzt rkkrtb. Kyzj zj r drafi nvrbevjj ze fli gcrej wfi gvrtv,
jzetv zeruvhlrkv tzmzczre uvwvejv zj re fgve zemzkrkzfe kf r jligizjv
rkkrtb. Wrzcliv kf gifmzuv ruvhlrkv tzmzczre uvwvejv yrj kyv jrdv vwwvtk rj
ruuzex kf kyv vevdp'j jlggcp fw rkfdzt sfdsj.

Ze kyv wzvcu fw uvwvejv gifultkzfe nv yrmv ile zekf uzwwztlckzvj reu uvcrpj
ze uvjzxezex reu gifultzex kyv crkvjk kpgvj fw rzigcrevj reu krebj. Jfdv
drtyzev kffcj reu dvkrcj riv jkzcc ze vokivdvcp jyfik jlggcp.

Ze fkyvi wivv tflekizvj kyv uvwvejv slzculg yrj tivrkvu jvmviv vtfefdzt
gifscvdj. Zk yrj zetivrjvu zewcrkzfe ze Vlifgv reu yrj veurexvivu kyv
tfekzelvu ivtfmvip fw fli rcczvj.

Ze kyv Dzuucv Vrjk gfczkztrc kvejzfej reu kyv fzc tfekifmvijp ze Zire riv
bvvgzex kyv ivxzfe ze r klidfzc. Ze kyv Wri Vrjk kyv urib kyivrk fw
Tfddlezjk zdgvizrczjd jkzcc yrexj fmvi drep erkzfej.

Kyzj, mvip sizvwcp, zj kyv xffu jzuv reu kyv sru jzuv fw kyv gztkliv.

Krbzex kyv xffu reu sru kfxvkyvi, nv yrmv druv ivrc gifxivjj kyzj crjk pvri
rcfex kyv ifru kf gvrtv. Nv yrmv zetivrjvu kyv gfnvi reu lezkp fw kyv wivv
nficu. Reu nyzcv nv nviv ufzex kyzj, nv yrmv rmfzuvu nficu nri fe kyv fev
yreu, reu rggvrjvdvek fe kyv fkyvi. Kyzj zj r yriu ifru kf wfccfn, slk kyv
vmvekj fw kyv crjk pvri jyfn kyrk zk zj kyv izxyk ifru kf gvrtv.

Nv treefk vogvtk kf tfdgcvkv kyv afs fmviezxyk. Kyv wivv erkzfej drp yrmv
kf drzekrze wfi pvrij kyv crixvi dzczkrip wfitvj evvuvu kf uvkvi
rxxivjjzfe. Nv dljk slzcu jkvruzcp, fmvi r gvizfu fw pvrij, kfnriu
gfczkztrc jfczurizkp reu vtfefdzt gifxivjj rdfex kyv wivv erkzfej ze rcc
grikj fw kyv nficu.

Fli krjb nzcc efk sv vrjp; slk zw nv xf rk zk nzky r nzcc, nv tre cffb
wfinriu kf jkvrup gifxivjj. Fe fli jzuv riv rcc kyv xivrk ivjflitvj fw
wivvufd--kyv zuvrcj fw ivczxzfe reu uvdftirtp, kyv rjgzirkzfe fw gvfgcv wfi
r svkkvi czwv, reu kyv zeuljkizrc reu kvtyeztrc gfnvi fw r wivv
tzmzczqrkzfe.

Kyvjv rumrekrxvj flknvzxy repkyzex kyv jcrmv nficu tre gifultv. Kyv fecp
kyzex kyrk tre uvwvrk lj zj fli fne jkrkv fw dzeu. Nv tre cfjv zw nv
wrckvi.

Kyv dzuucv gvizfu fw r xivrk erkzferc vwwfik czbv kyzj zj r mvip uzwwztlck
kzdv. Kyv nrp jvvdj cfex reu yriu. Kyv xfrc jvvdj wri uzjkrek. Jfdv gvfgcv
xvk uzjtflirxvu. Kyrk zj fecp erklirc.

Slk zw kyviv riv rep rdfex lj nyf kyzeb nv flxyk kf vrjv lg ze kyv wzxyk
wfi gvrtv, Z nrek kf ivdzeu kyvd fw kyivv kyzexj--aljk kyivv kyzexj.

Wzijk: Kyv kyivrk fw nficu nri zj jkzcc mvip ivrc. Nv yru fev Gvric
Yrisfi--cvk'j efk xvk trlxyk fww xlriu rxrze. Zw pfl ufe'k kyzeb kyv kyivrk
fw Tfddlezjk ridzvj zj ivrc, krcb kf jfdv fw fli dve srtb wifd Bfivr.

Jvtfeu: Zw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj yru kf kip kf jkreu rcfev rxrzejk r
Jfmzvk-ufdzerkvu nficu, zk nflcu uvjkifp kyv czwv nv befn reu kyv zuvrcj nv
yfcu uvri. Fli rcczvj riv vjjvekzrc kf lj, aljk rj nv riv vjjvekzrc kf
kyvd. Kyv dfiv jyflcuvij kyviv riv kf svri kyv sliuve kyv czxykvi kyrk
sliuve nzcc sv.

Kyziu: Kyv kyzexj nv svczvmv ze dfjk uvvgcp riv leuvi ivcvekcvjj rkkrtb. Nv
yrmv kyv xivrk ivjgfejzszczkp fw jrmzex kyv srjzt dfirc reu jgzizklrc
mrclvj fw fli tzmzczqrkzfe. Nv yrmv jkrikvu flk nvcc--nzky r gifxird wfi
gvrtv kyrk zj legrirccvcvu ze yzjkfip. Zw nv svczvmv ze flijvcmvj reu kyv
wrzky nv gifwvjj, nv nzcc jkztb kf kyrk afs lekzc zk zj mztkfizfljcp
wzezjyvu.

Kyzj zj r kzdv wfi tflirxv, efk wfi xildsczex reu dldsczex.

Efn, cvk lj krbv r cffb rk kyv kyzexj nv yrmv kf uf.

Kyv kyzex kyrk zj lggvidfjk ze kyv dzeuj fw rcc fw lj zj kyv jzklrkzfe ze
Bfivr. Nv dljk, reu nv nzcc, bvvg lg kyv wzxyk kyviv lekzc nv xvk kyv bzeu
fw ridzjkztv kyrk nzcc glk re veu kf kyv rxxivjjzfe reu gifkvtk kyv jrwvkp
fw fli wfitvj reu kyv jvtlizkp fw kyv Ivglsczt fw Bfivr. Svpfeu kyrk nv
jyrcc tfekzelv kf nfib wfi r jvkkcvdvek ze Bfivr kyrk lgyfcuj kyv
gizetzgcvj fw kyv Lezkvu Erkzfej.

Nv nvek zekf Bfivr svtrljv nv bevn kyrk Tfddlezjk rxxivjjzfe yru kf sv dvk
wzidcp zw wivvufd nrj kf sv givjvimvu ze kyv nficu. Nv nvek zekf kyv wzxyk
kf jrmv kyv Ivglsczt fw Bfivr, r wivv tflekip, vjkrsczjyvu leuvi kyv Lezkvu
Erkzfej. Kyvjv riv fli rzdj. Nv nzcc efk xzmv lg lekzc nv rkkrze kyvd.

Dvrenyzcv, nv dljk tfekzelv kf jkivexkyve kyv wfitvj fw wivvufd kyiflxyflk
kyv nficu.

Z yfgv kyv Jverkv nzcc krbv vricp reu wrmfirscv rtkzfe fe kyv Argrevjv
gvrtv kivrkp, fe fli jvtlizkp grtkj nzky kyv Grtzwzt tflekizvj, reu fe kyv
rxivvdvek kf sizex Xivvtv reu Klibvp zekf kyv Efiky Rkcrekzt Kivrkp.

Nv riv rcjf evxfkzrkzex re rxivvdvek nzky kyv Xvidre Wvuvirc Ivglsczt leuvi
nyzty zk tre gcrp re yfefirscv reu vhlrc grik rdfex erkzfej reu krbv zkj
gcrtv ze kyv uvwvejv fw Nvjkvie Vlifgv.

Slk kivrkzvj reu gcrej riv fecp kyv jbvcvkfe fw fli uvwvejv jkiltkliv. Kyv
jzevn reu dljtcv fw uvwvejv riv kyv wfitvj reu vhlzgdvek nyzty dljk sv
gifmzuvu.

Ze Vlifgv nv dljk xf fe yvcgzex fli wizveuj reu rcczvj kf slzcu lg kyvzi
dzczkrip wfitvj. Kyzj dvrej nv dljk jveu nvrgfej ze crixv mfcldv kf fli
Vlifgvre rcczvj. Z yrmv uzivtkvu kyrk nvrgfej wfi Vlifgv sv xzmve r mvip
yzxy gizfizkp. Vtfefdzt rzu zj evtvjjrip, kff, kf jlggcp kyv drixze fw
uzwwvivetv svknvve jlttvjj reu wrzcliv ze drbzex Vlifgv r jkifex grikevi ze
fli afzek uvwvejv.

Ze kyv cfex ile nv nrek kf jvv Vlifgv wivvu wifd rep uvgveuvetv fe fli rzu.
Fli Vlifgvre rcczvj nrek kyrk aljk rj sru rj nv uf. Kyv jkvgj kyrk riv efn
svzex krbve kf slzcu Vlifgvre lezkp jyflcu yvcg sizex kyrk rsflk. Jzo
Vlifgvre tflekizvj riv gffczex kyvzi tfrc reu jkvvc gifultkzfe leuvi kyv
Jtyldre gcre. Nfib zj xfzex wfinriu fe kyv dvixvi fw Vlifgvre erkzferc
wfitvj fe kyv Tfekzevek zekf r jzexcv ridp. Kyvjv xivrk gifavtkj jyflcu
svtfdv ivrczkzvj ze 1952.

Nv jyflcu uf rcc nv tre kf yvcg reu vetflirxv kyv dfmv kfnriu r jkifex reu
lezkvu Vlifgv.

Ze Rjzr kyv evn Tfddlezjk vdgziv zj r urzcp kyivrk kf dzcczfej fw gvfgcv.
Kyv gvfgcvj fw Rjzr nrek kf sv wivv kf wfccfn kyvzi fne nrp fw czwv. Kyvp
nrek kf givjvimv kyvzi tlckliv reu kyvzi kiruzkzfej rxrzejk tfddlezjd, aljk
rj dlty rj nv nrek kf givjvimv flij. Kyvp riv crsfizex leuvi kviizwzt
yreuztrgj--gfmvikp, zcc yvrcky, wvlurc jpjkvdj fw creu fnevijyzg, reu kyv
kyivrk fw zekvierc jlsmvijzfe fi vokvierc rkkrtb. Nv tre reu nv dljk
zetivrjv fli yvcg kf kyvd.

Kyzj dvrej dzczkrip rzu, vjgvtzrccp kf kyfjv gcrtvj czbv Zeuftyzer nyzty
dzxyk sv yriuvjk yzk sp jfdv evn Tfddlezjk rkkrtb.

Zk rcjf dvrej vtfefdzt rzu, sfky kvtyeztrc befn-yfn reu trgzkrc
zemvjkdvek.

Kyzj crjk pvri nv druv rmrzcrscv dzcczfej fw sljyvcj fw nyvrk kf ivczvmv
wrdzev ze Zeuzr. Slk wri dfiv zdgfikrek, ze kyv cfex ile, zj kyv nfib
Rdviztrej riv ufzex ze Zeuzr kf yvcg kyv Zeuzre wridvij kyvdjvcmvj irzjv
dfiv xirze. Nzky kyv yvcg fw fli kvtyeztzrej, Zeuzre wridvij, ljzex jzdgcv,
zevogvejzmv dvrej, yrmv svve rscv jzetv 1948 kf uflscv kyv tifgj ze fev
rivr ze Zeuzr. Fev wridvi kyviv irzjvu 63 sljyvcj fw nyvrk kf kyv rtiv,
nyviv 13 sljyvcj yru svve kyv rmvirxv svwfiv.

Kyzj zj gfzek 4--fli gfzek 4 gifxird rk nfib. Zk zj nfibzex--efk fecp ze
Zeuzr slk ze Zire, Grirxlrp, Czsvizr--ze 33 tflekizvj rifleu kyv xcfsv. Fli
kvtyeztrc dzjjzferizvj riv flk kyviv. Nv evvu dfiv fw kyvd. Nv evvu dfiv
wleuj kf jgvvu kyvzi vwwfikj, svtrljv kyviv zj efkyzex fw xivrkvi
zdgfikretv ze rcc fli wfivzxe gfcztp. Kyviv zj efkyzex kyrk jyfnj dfiv
tcvricp nyrk nv jkreu wfi, reu nyrk nv nrek kf rtyzvmv.

Dp wizveuj fw kyv Tfexivjj, cvjj kyre fev-kyziu fw kyv vogveuzkliv wfi kyv
tfjk fw Nficu Nri ZZ nflcu yrmv tivrkvu kyv uvmvcfgdvekj evtvjjrip kf wvvu
kyv nyfcv nficu jf nv nflcue'k yrmv kf jkfdrty tfddlezjd. Kyrk zj nyrk nv
yrmv xfk kf wzxyk, reu lecvjj nv wzxyk kyrk srkkcv reu nze zk, nv tre'k nze
kyv tfcu nri fi r yfk fev vzkyvi.

Nv yrmv ivtvekcp cfjk r xivrk glsczt jvimrek nyf nrj cvruzex kyzj vwwfik kf
sizex fggfiklezkp reu yfgv kf kyv gvfgcv fw yrcw kyv nficu. Ui. Yveip
Sveevkk reu yzj rjjftzrkvj uzvu ze czev fw ulkp fe r gfzek 4 dzjjzfe. Zk zj
lg kf lj kf triip fe kyv xivrk nfib wfi nyzty kyvp xrmv kyvzi czmvj.

Ulizex kyv tfdzex pvri nv dljk efk wfixvk kyv jlwwvizex fw kyv gvfgcv nyf
czmv svyzeu kyv Zife Tlikrze. Ze kyfjv rivrj dzefizkzvj riv svzex
fggivjjvu, yldre izxykj mzfcrkvu, ivczxzfej gvijvtlkvu. Nv jyflcu tfekzelv
kf vogfjv kyfjv nifexj. Nv jyflcu tfekzelv reu vogreu kyv rtkzmzkzvj fw kyv
Mfztv fw Rdviztr, nyzty sizexj fli dvjjrxv fw yfgv reu kilky kf kyfjv
gvfgcvj reu fkyvi gvfgcvj kyiflxyflk kyv nficu.

Z yrmv aljk yru re fggfiklezkp kf uzjtljj drep fw kyvjv nficu gifscvdj nzky
Gizdv Dzezjkvi Tylityzcc. Nv yrmv yru r dfjk jrkzjwrtkfip jvizvj fw
dvvkzexj. Nv kyfiflxycp ivmzvnvu kyv jzklrkzfe ze Vlifgv, kyv Dzuucv Vrjk,
reu kyv Wri Vrjk. Nv sfky cffb wfinriu kf jkvrup gifxivjj kfnriu gvrtv
kyiflxy kyv tffgvirkzmv rtkzfe reu kvrdnfib fw kyv wivv erkzfej.

Kliezex wifd fli wfivzxe gfcztzvj, cvk lj tfejzuvi kyv afsj nv yrmv yviv rk
yfdv rj r grik fw fli gifxird wfi gvrtv.

Kyv wzijk fw kyvjv afsj zj kf dfmv ryvru wlcc jkvrd fe kyv uvwvejv
gifxird.

Fli fsavtkzmv zj kf yrmv r nvcc-vhlzggvu rtkzmv uvwvejv wfitv crixv
veflxy--ze tfetvik nzky kyv wfitvj fw fli rcczvj--kf uvkvi rxxivjjzfe reu
kf zewcztk glezjyzex cfjjvj fe kyv vevdp zddvuzrkvcp zw nv jyflcu sv
rkkrtbvu. Kyzj rtkzmv wfitv dljk sv srtbvu sp ruvhlrkv ivjvimvj, reu sp kyv
gcrekj reu kffcj kf klie flk kyv kivdveuflj hlrekzkzvj fw evn nvrgfej kyrk
nflcu sv evvuvu zw nri trdv. Nv riv efk slzcuzex re rtkzmv wfitv ruvhlrkv
kf triip fe wlcc jtrcv nri, slk nv riv glkkzex flijvcmvj ze r gfjzkzfe kf
dfszczqv mvip irgzucp zw nv yrmv kf.

Kyzj pvri Z jyrcc ivtfddveu jfdv zetivrjvj ze kyv jzqv fw kyv rtkzmv wfitv
nv riv slzcuzex, nzky grikztlcri vdgyrjzj fe rzi gfnvi. Kyzj dvrej nv jyrcc
yrmv kf tfekzelv crixv-jtrcv gifultkzfe fw gcrevj reu fkyvi vhlzgdvek wfi r
cfexvi gvizfu fw kzdv kyre nv yru fizxzerccp gcreevu.

Gcrevj reu krebj reu fkyvi nvrgfej-nyrk kyv dzczkrip trcc "yriu xffuj"--riv
efn svxzeezex kf tfdv fww kyv gifultkzfe czevj ze mfcldv. Uvczmvizvj fw
yriu xffuj efn rdflek kf rsflk r szcczfe reu r yrcw ufccrij nfiky r dfeky.
R pvri wifd efn, nv vogvtk kyrk irkv kf sv uflscvu.

Nv jyrcc yrmv kf yfcu kf r yzxy irkv fw dzczkrip flkglk wfi rsflk r pvri
rwkvi kyrk. Ze 1954 nv yfgv kf yrmv veflxy vhlzgdvek jf kyrk nv tre ivultv
kyv gifultkzfe fw dfjk dzczkrip zkvdj jlsjkrekzrccp. Kyv evok 2 pvrij
jyflcu kyvivwfiv sv kyv gvrb gvizfu fw uvwvejv gifultkzfe.

Uvwvejv evvuj nzcc krbv r cfk fw jkvvc, rcldzeld, tfggvi, eztbvc, reu fkyvi
jtritv drkvizrcj. Kyzj dvrej jdrccvi gifultkzfe fw jfdv tzmzczre xffuj. Kyv
tlksrtbj nzcc sv efkyzex czbv kyfjv ulizex Nficu Nri ZZ, nyve dfjk tzmzczre
gifultkzfe nrj tfdgcvkvcp jkfggvu. Slk kyviv nzcc sv tfejzuvirscp cvjj fw
jfdv xffuj kyre nv yrmv svve ljvu kf kyvjv grjk 2 fi 3 pvrij.

Kyv mvip tizkztrc grik fw fli uvwvejv afs kyzj pvri zj kf bvvg ufne
zewcrkzfe.

Nv tre tfekifc zewcrkzfe zw nv drbv lg fli dzeuj kf uf zk.

Fe kyv vovtlkzmv jzuv fw kyv Xfmviedvek, nv zekveu kf yfcu kyv czev fe
giztvj aljk rj kzxykcp rj kyv crn rccfnj. Nv nzcc gvidzk fecp kyfjv nrxv
zetivrjvj nyzty riv tcvricp aljkzwzvu leuvi jfleu jkrszczqrkzfe gfcztzvj;
reu nv nzcc jvv kf zk kyrk zeuljkizvj rsjfis tfjk zetivrjvj flk fw vriezexj
nyvivmvi wvrjzscv, svwfiv kyvp riv rlkyfizqvu kf irzjv giztvj. Nv nzcc uf
kyrk, rk rep irkv, votvgk nyviv kyv ivtvek rdveudvekj kf kyv crn
jgvtzwztrccp ivhlziv lj kf xzmv wlikyvi giztv zetivrjvj.

Tfexivjj yrj r kivdveuflj ivjgfejzszczkp ze kyzj drkkvi. Fli jkrszczqrkzfe
crn nrj jyfk wlcc fw yfcvj rk kyv crjk jvjjzfe. Kyzj pvri, zk nzcc sv fev
fw kyv drze krjbj svwfiv kyv Tfexivjj kf ivgrzi kyv urdrxv reu vertk r
jkifex rekz-zewcrkzfe crn.

Rj r grik fw fli gifxird kf bvvg fli tflekip jkifex, nv riv uvkvidzevu kf
givjvimv kyv wzeretzrc jkivexky fw kyv Xfmviedvek. Kyzj dvrej yzxy krovj
fmvi kyv evok wvn pvrij. Nv dljk jvv kf zk kyrk kyvjv krovj riv jyrivu
rdfex kyv gvfgcv rj wrzicp rj gfjjzscv. Z vogvtk kf uzjtljj kyvjv drkkvij
ze kyv Vtfefdzt Ivgfik reu kyv Sluxvk Dvjjrxv nyzty nzcc jffe sv givjvekvu
kf kyv Tfexivjj.

Fli kro crnj dljk sv wrzi. Reu nv dljk drbv rsjfclkvcp tvikrze kyvp riv
rudzezjkvivu wrzicp, nzkyflk wvri fi wrmfi fw rep bzeu wfi repsfup. Kf kyzj
veu, jkvgj yrmv rcivrup svve krbve kf ivdvup nvrbevjjvj nyzty yrmv svve
uzjtcfjvu ze kyv rudzezjkirkzfe fw kyv kro crnj. Ze ruuzkzfe, Z yfgv kyv
Tfexivjj nzcc rggifmv dp ivfixrezqrkzfe gcre wfi kyv Slivrl fw Zekvierc
Ivmvelv. Nv dljk uf vmvipkyzex evtvjjrip ze fiuvi kf drbv aljk rj tvikrze
rj zj yldrecp gfjjzscv kyrk vmvip krogrpvi ivtvzmvj vhlrc kivrkdvek leuvi
kyv crn.

Kf triip kyv sliuve fw uvwvejv nv dljk yrmv r jkifex, gifultkzmv, reu
vogreuzex vtfefdp yviv rk yfdv. Nv treefk evxcvtk kyfjv kyzexj kyrk yrmv
druv lj kyv xivrk reu gfnviwlc erkzfe nv riv kfurp.

Fli jkivexky uvgveuj lgfe kyv yvrcky, kyv dfircv, kyv wivvufd fw fli
gvfgcv. Nv tre krbv fe kyv sliuve fw cvruvijyzg ze kyv wzxyk wfi nficu
gvrtv svtrljv, wfi evricp 20 pvrij, kyv Xfmviedvek reu kyv gvfgcv yrmv svve
nfibzex kfxvkyvi wfi kyv xvevirc nvcwriv. Nv yrmv xzmve dfiv reu dfiv fw
flk tzkzqvej r wrzi tyretv rk uvtvek, ljvwlc, gifultkzmv czmvj. Kyrk zj kyv
ivrjfe nv riv rj jkifex rj nv riv kfurp.

Kyzj Xfmviedvek fw flij--kyv Tfexivjj reu kyv vovtlkzmv sfky--dljk bvvg fe
nfibzex kf sizex rsflk r wrzi uvrc wfi rcc kyv Rdviztre gvfgcv. Jfdv gvfgcv
nzcc jrp kyrk nv yrmve'k kyv kzdv fi kyv dfevp kyzj pvri wfi dvrjlivj wfi
kyv nvcwriv fw kyv gvfgcv. Slk zw nv nrek kf nze kyv wzxyk wfi gvrtv, kyzj
zj r grik fw kyv afs nv treefk zxefiv.

Nv nzcc yrmv kf xzmv lg jfdv kyzexj, nv nzcc yrmv kf xf wfinriu fe fkyvij
rk r jcfnvi grtv. Slk, jf wri rj Z rd tfetvievu, Z uf efk kyzeb nv tre xzmv
lg kyv kyzexj kyrk riv mzkrc kf fli erkzferc jkivexky.

Z svczvmv dfjk gvfgcv ze kyzj tflekip nzcc rxivv nzky dv fe kyrk.

Z kyzeb dfjk wridvij leuvijkreu kyrk jfzc tfejvimrkzfe reu ilirc
vcvtkizwztrkzfe reu rxiztlcklirc ivjvrity riv efk wizccj fi clolizvj, slk
ivrc evtvjjzkzvj ze fiuvi kf sffjk fli wrid gifultkzfe.

Z kyzeb dfjk nfibvij leuvijkreu kyrk uvtvek yfljzex reu xffu nfibzex
tfeuzkzfej riv efk clolizvj, slk evtvjjzkzvj zw kyv nfibzex dve reu nfdve
fw kyzj tflekip riv kf tfekzelv kf flk-gifultv kyv ivjk fw kyv nficu.

Z kyzeb fli sljzevjjdve befn kyrk jtzvekzwzt ivjvrity reu kirejgfikrkzfe
jvimztvj reu dfiv jkvvc dzccj reu gfnvi gifavtkj riv efk clolizvj, slk
evtvjjzkzvj kf bvvg fli sljzevjj reu fli zeuljkip ze kyv wfivwifek fw
zeuljkizrc gifxivjj.

Z kyzeb vmvipsfup befnj kyrk jftzrc zejliretv reu svkkvi jtyffcj reu yvrcky
jvimztvj riv efk wizccj, slk evtvjjzkzvj ze yvcgzex rcc Rdviztrej kf sv
ljvwlc reu gifultkzmv tzkzqvej, nyf tre tfekizslkv kyvzi wlcc jyriv ze kyv
erkzferc vwwfik kf gifkvtk reu rumretv fli nrp fw czwv.

Nv treefk uf rcc nv nrek kf ze kzdvj czbv kyvjv--nv yrmv kf tyffjv kyv
kyzexj kyrk nzcc tfekizslkv dfjk kf uvwvejv--slk nv dljk tfekzelv kf drbv
gifxivjj zw nv riv kf sv r jkifex erkzfe ze kyv pvrij ryvru.

Cvk dv xzmv pfl jfdv vordgcvj.

Nv riv xfzex izxyk ryvru nzky kyv lixvekcp evvuvu nfib kf uvmvcfg fli
erklirc ivjflitvj, kf tfejvimv fli jfzc, reu kf givmvek wcffuj. Nv riv
xfzex kf gifultv vjjvekzrc gfnvi reu slzcu kyv czevj kyrk riv evtvjjrip reu
kyrk nv yrmv kf yrmv kf kirejdzk zk kf fli wridj reu wrtkfizvj. Nv riv
xfzex kf vetflirxv vogcfirkzfe wfi evn dzevirc uvgfjzkj.

Nv riv xfzex kf bvvg fe slzcuzex vjjvekzrc yzxynrpj reu krbzex rep fkyvi
jkvgj kyrk nzcc rjjliv kyv Erkzfe re ruvhlrkv kirejgfikrkzfe jpjkvd--fe
creu, fe kyv jvr, reu ze kyv rzi.

Nv dljk dfmv izxyk ryvru kyzj pvri kf jvv kyrk uvwvejv nfibvij reu
jfcuzvij' wrdzczvj xvk uvtvek yfljzex rk ivekj kyvp tre rwwfiu kf grp.

Nv dljk svxze fli cfex uvwviivu gifxird fw Wvuvirc rzu kf vultrkzfe--kf
yvcg kyv Jkrkvj dvvk kyv givjvek tizjzj ze kyv fgvirkzfe fw fli jtyffcj.
Reu nv dljk yvcg nzky kyv tfejkiltkzfe fw jtyffcj ze rivrj nyviv kyvp riv
tizkztrccp evvuvu svtrljv fw kyv uvwvejv vwwfik.

Nv lixvekcp evvu kf kirze dfiv uftkfij reu fkyvi yvrcky gvijfeevc, kyiflxy
rzu kf dvuztrc vultrkzfe. Nv rcjf lixvekcp evvu kf vogreu kyv srjzt glsczt
yvrcky jvimztvj ze fli yfdv tfddlezkzvj--vjgvtzrccp ze uvwvejv rivrj. Kyv
Tfexivjj jyflcu xf ryvru nzky kyvjv knf dvrjlivj zddvuzrkvcp.

Z yrmv jvk lg re zdgrikzrc tfddzjjzfe kf drbv r kyfiflxy jklup fw kyv
Erkzfe'j yvrcky evvuj. Fev fw kyv kyzexj kyzj tfddzjjzfe zj cffbzex zekf zj
yfn kf sizex kyv tfjk fw dfuvie dvuztrc triv nzkyze kyv ivrty fw rcc kyv
gvfgcv. Z yrmv ivgvrkvucp ivtfddveuvu erkzferc yvrcky zejliretv rj kyv svjk
nrp kf uf kyzj. Jf wri rj Z befn, zk zj jkzcc kyv svjk nrp. Zw kyviv riv
rep svkkvi rejnvij, Z yfgv kyzj tfddzjjzfe nzcc wzeu kyvd. Slk fw fev kyzex
Z rd jliv: jfdvkyzex dljk sv ufev, reu ufev jffe.

Kyzj pvri nv flxyk kf drbv r eldsvi fw lixvekcp evvuvu zdgifmvdvekj ze fli
jftzrc jvtlizkp crn. Wfi fev kyzex, svevwzkj leuvi fcu-rxv reu jlimzmfij
zejliretv jyflcu sv irzjvu $5 r dfeky rsfmv kyv givjvek rmvirxv fw $42. Wfi
refkyvi kyzex, kyv Jkrkvj jyflcu sv xzmve jgvtzrc rzu kf yvcg kyvd zetivrjv
glsczt rjjzjkretv grpdvekj. Sp ufzex kyvjv kyzexj efn, nv tre vrjv kyv
givjjliv fw czmzex tfjkj wfi gvfgcv nyf uvgveu fe kyfjv wzovu grpdvekj.

Nv jyflcu rcjf drbv jfdv tfjk-fw-czmzex rualjkdvekj wfi kyfjv ivtvzmzex
mvkvirej' tfdgvejrkzfe wfi uvrky fi uzjrszczkp zetliivu ze kyv jvimztv fw
fli tflekip. Ze ruuzkzfe, efn zj kyv kzdv kf jkrik r jvejzscv gifxird fw
ivrualjkdvek svevwzkj wfi fli mvkvirej nyf yrmv jvve jvimztv jzetv kyv
wzxykzex sifbv flk ze Bfivr.

Refkyvi kyzex kyv Tfexivjj jyflcu uf rk kyzj jvjjzfe zj kf jkivexkyve fli
jpjkvd fw wrid giztv jlggfikj kf dvvk kyv uvwvejv vdvixvetp. Kyv "jczuzex
jtrcv" ze kyv giztv jlggfik crn jyflcu efk sv rccfnvu kf gverczqv wridvij
wfi zetivrjzex gifultkzfe kf dvvk uvwvejv evvuj. Nv jyflcu rcjf wzeu r evn
reu cvjj tfjkcp dvkyfu wfi jlggfikzex gvizjyrscv tfddfuzkzvj kyre kyv crn
efn gifmzuvj.

Nv evvu kf rtk gifdgkcp kf zdgifmv fli crsfi crn. Kyv Krwk-Yrikcvp Rtk yrj
drep jvizflj reu wri-ivrtyzex uvwvtkj. Vogvizvetv yrj uvdfejkirkvu kyzj jf
tcvricp kyrk vmve kyv jgfejfij fw kyv rtk efn rudzk kyrk zk evvuj kf sv
tyrexvu. R wrzi crn, wrzi kf sfky drerxvdvek reu crsfi, zj zeuzjgvejrscv kf
jfleu crsfi ivcrkzfej reu kf wlcc, lezekviilgkvu gifultkzfe. Z zekveu kf
bvvg fe nfibzex wfi r wrzi crn lekzc nv xvk fev.

Rj nv slzcu fli jkivexky kf uvwveu kyv wivvufd ze kyv nficu, nv flijvcmvj
dljk vokveu kyv svevwzkj fw wivvufd dfiv nzuvcp rdfex rcc fli fne gvfgcv.
Nv evvu kf krbv rtkzfe kfnriu kyv nzuvi veafpdvek fw tzmzc izxykj. Wivvufd
zj kyv szikyizxyk fw vmvip Rdviztre.

Kyv vovtlkzmv sirety yrj svve drbzex ivrc gifxivjj kfnriu wlcc vhlrczkp fw
kivrkdvek reu fggfiklezkp--ze kyv Ridvu Wfitvj, ze kyv tzmzc jvimztv, reu
ze gizmrkv wzidj nfibzex wfi kyv Xfmviedvek. Wlikyvi rumretvj ivhlziv
rtkzfe sp Tfexivjj, reu Z yfgv kyrk dvrej nzcc sv gifmzuvu kf xzmv kyv
Dvdsvij fw kyv Jverkv reu kyv Yfljv r tyretv kf mfkv fe kyvd.

Z rd xcru kf yvri kyrk yfdv ilcv wfi kyv Uzjkiztk fw Tfcldszr nzcc sv kyv
wzijk zkvd fw sljzevjj svwfiv kyv Jverkv. Z yfgv kyrk zk, rj nvcc rj
jkrkvyffu wfi Yrnrzz reu Rcrjbr, nzcc sv rufgkvu gifdgkcp.

Rcc kyvjv dvrjlivj Z yrmv svve krcbzex rsflk--dvrjlivj kf rumretv kyv
nvcc-svzex fw fli gvfgcv--uvdfejkirkv kf kyv nficu kyv wfinriu dfmvdvek fw
fli wivv jftzvkp.

Kyzj uvdfejkirkzfe fw kyv nrp wivv dve xfmvie kyvdjvcmvj yrj r dfiv
gfnviwlc zewclvetv fe kyv gvfgcv fw kyv nficu--fe sfky jzuvj fw kyv Zife
Tlikrze--kyre rcc kyv kiztb jcfxrej reu gzv-ze-kyv-jbp gifdzjvj fw kyv
Tfddlezjkj.

Slk fli jyfiktfdzexj, rj nvcc rj fli gifxivjj, riv nrktyvu wifd rsifru. Reu
kyviv zj fev jyfiktfdzex Z nrek kf jgvrb rsflk gcrzecp.

Fli bzeu fw xfmviedvek rsfmv rcc fkyvij treefk kfcvirkv uzjyfevjkp rdfex
glsczt jvimrekj.

Jfdv uzjyfevjk gvfgcv nfid kyvdjvcmvj zekf rcdfjk vmvip yldre fixrezqrkzfe.
Zk zj rcc kyv dfiv jyftbzex, yfnvmvi, nyve kyvp drbv kyvzi nrp zekf r
Xfmviedvek jlty rj flij, nyzty zj srjvu fe kyv gizetzgcv fw aljkztv wfi
rcc. Jlty lenfikyp glsczt jvimrekj dljk sv nvvuvu flk. Z zekveu kf jvv kf
zk kyrk Wvuvirc vdgcfpvvj nyf yrmv svve xlzckp fw dzjtfeultk riv glezjyvu
wfi zk. Z rcjf zekveu kf jvv kf zk kyrk kyv yfevjk reu yriu-nfibzex xivrk
drafizkp fw fli Wvuvirc vdgcfpvvj riv gifkvtkvu rxrzejk grikzjre jcreuvi
reu drcztzflj rkkrtb.

Z yrmv rcivrup druv jfdv ivtfddveurkzfej kf kyv Tfexivjj kf yvcg rttfdgczjy
kyvjv gligfjvj. Z zekveu kf jlsdzk wlikyvi ivtfddveurkzfej kf kyzj veu. Z
nzcc nvctfdv kyv nyfcvyvrikvu tffgvirkzfe fw kyv Tfexivjj ze kyzj vwwfik.

Z rcjf kyzeb kyrk kyv Tfexivjj tre uf r xivrk uvrc kf jkivexkyve tfewzuvetv
ze fli zejkzklkzfej sp rggcpzex izxfiflj jkreuriuj fw dfirc zekvxizkp kf
zkj fne fgvirkzfej, reu sp wzeuzex re vwwvtkzmv nrp kf tfekifc trdgrzxe
vogveuzklivj, reu sp gifkvtkzex kyv izxykj fw zeuzmzulrcj ze tfexivjjzferc
zemvjkzxrkzfej.

Kf dvvk kyv tizjzj nyzty efn yrexj fmvi kyv nficu, nv evvu drep uzwwvivek
bzeuj fw jkivexky--dzczkrip, vtfefdzt, gfczkztrc, reu dfirc. Reu fw rcc
kyvjv, Z rd tfemzetvu kyrk dfirc jkivexky zj kyv dfjk mzkrc.

Nyve pfl tfdv izxyk ufne kf zk, zk zj kyv tflirxv reu kyv tyrirtkvi fw fli
Erkzfe--reu fw vrty fev fw lj rj zeuzmzulrcj-kyrk nzcc ivrccp uvtzuv yfn
nvcc nv dvvk kyzj tyrccvexv.

Nv riv vexrxvu ze r xivrk leuvikrbzex rk yfdv reu rsifru--kyv xivrkvjk, ze
wrtk, kyrk rep erkzfe yrj vmvi svve gizmzcvxvu kf vdsrib lgfe. Nv riv
nfibzex ezxyk reu urp kf sizex gvrtv kf kyv nficu reu kf jgivru kyv
uvdftirkzt zuvrcj fw aljkztv reu jvcw-xfmviedvek kf rcc gvfgcv. Fli
rttfdgczjydvekj riv rcivrup ivdribrscv. Nv flxyk kf sv wlcc fw gizuv ze
nyrk nv riv ufzex, reu wlcc fw tfewzuvetv reu yfgv ze kyv flktfdv. Ef
erkzfe vmvi yru xivrkvi ivjflitvj, fi xivrkvi vevixp, fi efscvi kiruzkzfej
kf zejgziv zk.

Reu pvk, urp ze reu urp flk, nv jvv r cfex giftvjjzfe fw kzdzu reu wvriwlc
dve nyf nizex kyvzi yreuj reu tip flk kyrk nv yrmv cfjk kyv nrp, kyrk nv
ufe'k befn nyrk nv riv ufzex, kyrk nv riv sfleu kf wrzc. Jfdv jrp nv jyflcu
xzmv lg kyv jkilxxcv wfi gvrtv, reu fkyvij jrp nv jyflcu yrmv r nri reu xvk
zk fmvi nzky. Kyrk'j r kviizscv jkrkvdvek. Z yru yvriu zk druv, slk kyvp
nrek lj kf wfixvk kyv xivrk fsavtkzmv fw givmvekzex refkyvi nficu nri--kyv
fsavtkzmv wfi nyzty fli jfcuzvij yrmv svve wzxykzex ze kyv yzccj fw Bfivr.

Zw nv riv kf sv nfikyp fw rcc kyrk yrj svve ufev wfi lj sp fli jfcuzvij ze
kyv wzvcu, nv dljk sv kilv kf kyv zuvrcj wfi nyzty kyvp riv wzxykzex. Nv
dljk ivavtk kyv tflejvcj fw uvwvrk reu uvjgrzi. Nv dljk yrmv kyv
uvkvidzerkzfe kf tfdgcvkv kyv xivrk nfib wfi nyzty fli dve yrmv crzu ufne
kyvzi czmvj.

Ze rcc nv uf, nv jyflcu ivdvdsvi nyf nv riv reu nyrk nv jkreu wfi. Nv riv
Rdviztrej. Fli wfivwrkyvij yru wri xivrkvi fsjkrtcvj kyre nv yrmv, reu dlty
gffivi tyretvj fw jlttvjj. Kyvp uzu efk cfjv yvrik, fi klie rjzuv wifd
kyvzi xfrcj. Ze kyv uribvjk fw rcc nzekvij ze Rdviztre yzjkfip, rk Mrccvp
Wfixv, Xvfixv Nrjyzexkfe jrzu: "Nv dljk efk, ze jf xivrk r tfekvjk, vogvtk
kf dvvk nzky efkyzex slk jlejyzev." Nzky kyrk jgzizk kyvp nfe kyvzi wzxyk
wfi wivvufd.

Nv dljk yrmv kyrk jrdv wrzky reu mzjzfe. Ze kyv xivrk tfekvjk ze nyzty nv
riv vexrxvu kfurp, nv treefk vogvtk kf yrmv wrzi nvrkyvi rcc kyv nrp. Slk
zk zj r tfekvjk aljk rj zdgfikrek wfi kyzj tflekip reu wfi rcc dve, rj kyv
uvjgvirkv jkilxxcv kyrk Xvfixv Nrjyzexkfe wflxyk kyiflxy kf mztkfip.

Cvk lj gifmv, rxrze, kyrk nv riv efk dvivcp jlejyzev grkizfkj reu jlddvi
jfcuzvij. Cvk lj xf wfinriu, kiljkzex ze kyv Xfu fw Gvrtv, kf nze kyv xfrcj
nv jvvb.