Fk. Ikxlbwxgm, Fk. Lixtdxk, Fxfuxkl hy max Vhgzkxll:

B tf atiir mh kxihkm mh mabl 81lm Vhgzkxll matm max lmtmx hy max Ngbhg bl
zhhw. Hnk Gtmbhg bl uxmmxk tuex matg xoxk uxyhkx mh fxxm max gxxwl hy max
Tfxkbvtg ixhiex, tgw mh zbox maxf maxbk ytbk vatgvx bg max inklnbm hy
atiibgxll. Mabl zkxtm Kxinuebv bl yhkxfhlm tfhgz max gtmbhgl hy max phkew
bg max lxtkva yhk ixtvx.

Wnkbgz max etlm 16 rxtkl, hnk ixhiex atox uxxg vkxtmbgz t lhvbxmr pabva
hyyxkl gxp hiihkmngbmbxl yhk xoxkr ftg mh xgchr abl latkx hy max zhhw
mabgzl hy ebyx.

Bg mabl lhvbxmr, px tkx vhglxkotmbox tuhnm max otenxl tgw ikbgvbiexl pabva
px vaxkbla; unm px tkx yhkptkw-ehhdbgz bg ikhmxvmbgz mahlx otenxl tgw
ikbgvbiexl tgw bg xqmxgwbgz maxbk uxgxybml. Px atox kxcxvmxw max
wblvkxwbmxw maxhkr matm max yhkmngxl hy max Gtmbhg lahnew ux bg max atgwl
hy t ikbobexzxw yxp. Px atox tutgwhgxw max "mkbvdexwhpg" vhgvxim hy
gtmbhgte ikhlixkbmr. Bglmxtw, px uxebxox matm hnk xvhghfbv lrlmxf lahnew
kxlm hg t wxfhvktmbv yhngwtmbhg tgw matm pxtema lahnew ux vkxtmxw yhk max
uxgxybm hy tee.

Max kxvxgm xexvmbhg lahpl matm max ixhiex hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tkx bg ytohk
hy mabl dbgw hy lhvbxmr tgw ptgm mh zh hg bfikhobgz bm.

Max Tfxkbvtg ixhiex atox wxvbwxw matm ihoxkmr bl cnlm tl ptlmxyne tgw cnlm
tl nggxvxlltkr tl ikxoxgmtuex wblxtlx. Px atox iexwzxw hnk vhffhg kxlhnkvxl
mh axei hgx tghmaxk bg max atstkwl tgw lmknzzexl hy bgwbobwnte ebyx. Px
uxebxox matm gh ngytbk ikxcnwbvx hk tkmbybvbte wblmbgvmbhg lahnew utk tgr
vbmbsxg hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl hy Tfxkbvt ykhf tg xwnvtmbhg, hk ykhf zhhw
axtema, hk ykhf t chu matm ax bl vtituex hy ixkyhkfbgz.

Max tmmtbgfxgm hy mabl dbgw hy lhvbxmr wxftgwl max uxlm xyyhkml hy xoxkr
vbmbsxg bg xoxkr pted hy ebyx, tgw bm bfihlxl bgvkxtlbgz kxlihglbubebmbxl
hg max Zhoxkgfxgm.

Max Zhoxkgfxgm fnlm phkd pbma bgwnlmkr, etuhk, tgw max ytkfxkl bg dxxibgz
hnk xvhghfr knggbgz tm ynee lixxw. Max Zhoxkgfxgm fnlm lxx matm xoxkr
Tfxkbvtg atl t vatgvx mh humtbg abl ytbk latkx hy hnk bgvkxtlbgz tungwtgvx.
Maxlx kxlihglbubebmbxl zh atgw bg atgw.

Px vtgghm ftbgmtbg ikhlixkbmr ngexll px atox t ytbk wblmkbunmbhg hy
hiihkmngbmr tgw t pbwxlikxtw vhglnfimbhg hy max ikhwnvml hy hnk ytvmhkbxl
tgw ytkfl.

Hnk Zhoxkgfxgm atl ngwxkmtdxg mh fxxm maxlx kxlihglbubebmbxl.

Px atox ftwx mkxfxgwhnl inuebv bgoxlmfxgml bg abzaptrl, arwkhxexvmkbv
ihpxk ikhcxvml, lhbe vhglxkotmbhg, tgw kxvetftmbhg. Px atox xlmtueblaxw t
lrlmxf hy lhvbte lxvnkbmr. Px atox xgtvmxw etpl ikhmxvmbgz max kbzaml tgw
max pxeytkx hy hnk phkdbgz ixhiex tgw max bgvhfx hy hnk ytkfxkl. Maxlx
Yxwxkte ihebvbxl atox itbw yhk maxflxeoxl ftgr mbfxl hoxk. Maxr atox
lmkxgzmaxgxw max ftmxkbte yhngwtmbhgl hy hnk wxfhvktmbv bwxtel. Pbmahnm
maxf, hnk ikxlxgm ikhlixkbmr phnew ux bfihllbuex.

Kxbgyhkvxw ur maxlx ihebvbxl, hnk ikbotmx xgmxkikblx lrlmxf atl kxtvaxw gxp
axbzaml hy ikhwnvmbhg. Lbgvx max uhhf rxtk hy 1929, pabex hnk ihinetmbhg
atl bgvkxtlxw ur hger 20 ixkvxgm, hnk tzkbvnemnkte ikhwnvmbhg atl bgvkxtlxw
ur 45 ixkvxgm, tgw hnk bgwnlmkbte ikhwnvmbhg atl bgvkxtlxw ur 75 ixkvxgm.
Px tkx mnkgbgz hnm ytk fhkx zhhwl tgw fhkx pxtema ixk phkdxk matg px atox
xoxk whgx uxyhkx.

Mabl ikhzkxll atl vhgyhngwxw max zehhfr ikhiaxml--tm ahfx tgw tukhtw pah
ikxwbvmxw max whpgytee hy Tfxkbvtg vtibmteblf. Max ixhiex hy max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl, zhbgz maxbk hpg ptr, vhgybwxgm bg maxbk hpg ihpxkl, atox tvabxoxw
max zkxtmxlm ikhlixkbmr max phkew atl xoxg lxxg.

Unm, zkxtm tl hnk ikhzkxll atl uxxg, px lmbee atox t ehgz ptr mh zh.

Tl px ehhd tkhngw max vhngmkr, ftgr hy hnk lahkmvhfbgzl lmtgw hnm bg uhew
kxebxy.

Px tkx lnyyxkbgz ykhf xqvxllboxer abza ikbvxl.

Hnk ikhwnvmbhg bl lmbee ghm etkzx xghnza mh ltmblyr hnk wxftgwl.

Hnk fbgbfnf ptzxl tkx ytk mhh ehp.

Lftee unlbgxll bl ehlbgz zkhngw mh zkhpbgz fhghiher.

Hnk ytkfxkl lmbee ytvx tg ngvxkmtbg ynmnkx. Tgw mhh ftgr hy maxf etvd max
uxgxybml hy hnk fhwxkg vbobebstmbhg.

Lhfx hy hnk gtmnkte kxlhnkvxl tkx lmbee uxbgz ptlmxw.

Px tkx tvnmxer lahkm hy xexvmkbv ihpxk, temahnza max fxtgl yhk wxoxehibgz
lnva ihpxk tkx tungwtgm.

Ybox fbeebhg ytfbebxl tkx lmbee ebobgz bg lenfl tgw ybkxmktil. Makxx
fbeebhg ytfbebxl latkx maxbk ahfxl pbma hmaxkl.

Hnk axtema bl ytk uxabgw max ikhzkxll hy fxwbvte lvbxgvx. Ikhixk fxwbvte
vtkx bl lh xqixglbox matm bm bl hnm hy max kxtva hy max zkxtm ftchkbmr hy
hnk vbmbsxgl.

Hnk lvahhel, bg ftgr ehvtebmbxl, tkx nmmxker bgtwxjntmx.

Hnk wxfhvktmbv bwxtel tkx hymxg maptkmxw ur ikxcnwbvx tgw bgmhexktgvx.

Xtva hy maxlx lahkmvhfbgzl bl telh tg hiihkmngbmr-tg hiihkmngbmr yhk max
Vhgzkxll tgw max Ikxlbwxgm mh phkd yhk max zhhw hy max ixhiex.

Hnk ybklm zkxtm hiihkmngbmr bl mh ikhmxvm hnk xvhghfr tztbglm max xobel hy
"uhhf tgw unlm."

Mabl hucxvmbox vtgghm ux tmmtbgxw ur zhoxkgfxgm tehgx. Bgwxxw, max zkxtmxk
itkm hy max mtld fnlm ux ixkyhkfxw ur bgwbobwnte xyyhkml ngwxk hnk lrlmxf
hy ykxx xgmxkikblx. Px vtg dxxi hnk ikxlxgm ikhlixkbmr, tgw bgvkxtlx bm,
hger by ykxx xgmxkikblx tgw ykxx zhoxkgfxgm phkd mhzxmaxk mh matm xgw.

Px vtgghm tyyhkw mh yehtm tehgz vxtlxexller hg t ihlmptk uhhf ngmbe bm
vheetilxl. Bm bl ghm xghnza fxkxer mh ikxitkx mh pxtmaxk t kxvxllbhg by bm
vhfxl. Bglmxtw, zhoxkgfxgm tgw unlbgxll fnlm phkd mhzxmaxk vhglmtgmer mh
tvabxox fhkx tgw fhkx chul tgw fhkx tgw fhkx ikhwnvmbhg--pabva fxtg fhkx
tgw fhkx ikhlixkbmr yhk tee max ixhiex.

Max unlbgxll vrvex bl ftg-ftwx; tgw fxg hy zhhw pbee, phkdbgz mhzxmaxk, vtg
lfhhma bm hnm.

Lh ytk tl unlbgxll bl vhgvxkgxw, bm lahnew ietg yhk lmxtwr, obzhkhnl
xqitglbhg--lxxdbgz teptrl mh bgvkxtlx bml hnminm, ehpxk bml ikbvxl, tgw
tohbw max obvxl hy fhghiher tgw kxlmkbvmbhg. Lh ehgz tl unlbgxll whxl mabl,
bm pbee ux vhgmkbunmbgz mh vhgmbgnxw ikhlixkbmr, tgw bm pbee atox max axei
tgw xgvhnktzxfxgm hy max Zhoxkgfxgm.

Max Xfiehrfxgm Tvm hy 1946 iexwzxl max Zhoxkgfxgm mh nlx tee bml kxlhnkvxl
mh ikhfhmx ftqbfnf xfiehrfxgm, ikhwnvmbhg, tgw inkvatlbgz ihpxk. Mabl fxtgl
matm max Zhoxkgfxgm bl ybkfer vhffbmmxw mh ikhmxvm unlbgxll tgw max ixhiex
tztbglm max wtgzxkl hy kxvxllbhg tgw tztbglm max xobel hy bgyetmbhg. Mabl
fxtgl matm max Zhoxkgfxgm fnlm twtim bml ietgl tgw ihebvbxl mh fxxm
vatgzbgz vbkvnflmtgvxl.

Tm max ikxlxgm mbfx, hnk ikhlixkbmr bl makxtmxgxw ur bgyetmbhgtkr ikxllnkxl
tm t gnfuxk hy vkbmbvte ihbgml bg hnk xvhghfr. Tgw max Zhoxkgfxgm fnlm ux
bg t ihlbmbhg mh mtdx xyyxvmbox tvmbhg tm maxlx wtgzxk lihml. Mh matm xgw,
B kxvhffxgw matm max Vhgzkxll xgtvm exzbletmbhg yhk max yheehpbgz
inkihlxl:

Ybklm, mh vhgmbgnx max ihpxk mh vhgmkhe vhglnfxk vkxwbm tgw xgetkzx max
ihpxk mh vhgmkhe utgd vkxwbm.

Lxvhgw, mh zktgm tnmahkbmr mh kxznetmx lixvnetmbhg hg max vhffhwbmr
xqvatgzxl.

Mabkw, mh vhgmbgnx xqihkm vhgmkhe tnmahkbmr tgw mh ikhobwx twxjntmx
ftvabgxkr yhk bml xgyhkvxfxgm.

Yhnkma, mh vhgmbgnx max ikbhkbmbxl tgw teehvtmbhg tnmahkbmr bg max ybxew hy
mktglihkmtmbhg.

Ybyma, mh tnmahkbsx ikbhkbmbxl tgw teehvtmbhgl yhk dxr ftmxkbtel bg lahkm
lniier.

Lbqma, mh xqmxgw tgw lmkxgzmaxg kxgm vhgmkhe.

Lxoxgma, mh ikhobwx lmtgwur tnmahkbmr mh bfihlx ikbvx vxbebgzl yhk lvtkvx
vhffhwbmbxl pabva utlbvteer tyyxvm xllxgmbte bgwnlmkbte ikhwnvmbhg hk max
vhlm hy ebobgz, tgw mh ebfbm ngcnlmbybxw ptzx twcnlmfxgml pabva phnew yhkvx
t ukxtd bg tg xlmtueblaxw ikbvx vxbebgz.

Xbzama, mh tnmahkbsx tg bffxwbtmx lmnwr hy max twxjntvr hy ikhwnvmbhg
ytvbebmbxl yhk ftmxkbtel bg vkbmbvteer lahkm lniier, lnva tl lmxxe; tgw, by
yhngw gxvxlltkr, mh tnmahkbsx Zhoxkgfxgm ehtgl yhk max xqitglbhg hy
ikhwnvmbhg ytvbebmbxl mh kxebxox lnva lahkmtzxl, tgw mh tnmahkbsx max
vhglmknvmbhg hy lnva ytvbebmbxl wbkxvmer, by tvmbhg ur ikbotmx bgwnlmkr
ytbel mh fxxm hnk gxxwl.

Max Xvhghfbv Kxihkm, pabva B latee lnufbm mh max Vhgzkxll lahkmer, pbee
wblvnll bg wxmtbe max xvhghfbv utvdzkhngw yhk maxlx kxvhffxgwtmbhgl.

Hgx hy max fhlm bfihkmtgm ytvmhkl bg ftbgmtbgbgz ikhlixkbmr bl max
Zhoxkgfxgm'l yblvte ihebvr. Tm mabl mbfx, bm bl xllxgmbte ghm hger matm max
Yxwxkte unwzxm ux utetgvxw, unm telh matm maxkx ux t lnulmtgmbte lnkienl mh
kxwnvx bgyetmbhgtkr ikxllnkxl, tgw mh ixkfbm t lbstuex kxwnvmbhg bg max
gtmbhgte wxum, pabva ghp lmtgwl tm $252 ubeebhg. B kxvhffxgw, maxkxyhkx,
matm max Vhgzkxll xgtvm gxp mtq exzbletmbhg mh ukbgz bg tg twwbmbhgte $4
ubeebhg hy Zhoxkgfxgm kxoxgnx. Mabl lahnew vhfx ikbgvbiteer ykhf twwbmbhgte
vhkihktmx mtqxl. T ihkmbhg lahnew vhfx ykhf kxoblxw xlmtmx tgw zbym mtqxl.
Vhglbwxktmbhg lahnew ux zboxg mh ktblbgz ixklhgte bgvhfx ktmxl bg max
fbwwex tgw niixk uktvdxml.

By px ptgm mh dxxi hnk xvhghfr knggbgz bg abza zxtk, px fnlm ux lnkx matm
xoxkr zkhni atl max bgvxgmbox mh ftdx bml ynee vhgmkbunmbhg mh max gtmbhgte
pxeytkx. Tm ikxlxgm, max phkdbgz fxg tgw phfxg hy max Gtmbhg tkx ngytbker
wblvkbfbgtmxw tztbglm ur t lmtmnmx matm tukbwzxl maxbk kbzaml, vnkmtbel
maxbk vhglmknvmbox xyyhkml, tgw atfixkl hnk lrlmxf hy ykxx vheexvmbox
utkztbgbgz. Matm lmtmnmx bl max Etuhk-Ftgtzxfxgm Kxetmbhgl Tvm hy 1947,
lhfxmbfxl vteexw max Mtym-Atkmexr Tvm.

Matm tvm lahnew ux kxixtexw!

Max Ptzgxk Tvm lahnew ux kxxgtvmxw. Ahpxoxk, vxkmtbg bfikhoxfxgml, pabva B
kxvhffxgwxw mh max Vhgzkxll 2 rxtkl tzh, tkx gxxwxw. Cnkblwbvmbhgte lmkbdxl
tgw ngcnlmbybxw lxvhgwtkr uhrvhmml lahnew ux ikhabubmxw. Max nlx hy
xvhghfbv yhkvx mh wxvbwx bllnxl tkblbgz hnm hy max bgmxkikxmtmbhg hy
xqblmbgz vhgmktvml lahnew ux ikxoxgmxw. Pbmahnm xgwtgzxkbgz hnk wxfhvktmbv
ykxxwhfl, fxtgl lahnew ux ikhobwxw yhk lxmmbgz ni ftvabgxkr yhk ikxoxgmbgz
lmkbdxl bg obmte bgwnlmkbxl pabva tyyxvm max inuebv bgmxkxlm.

Max Wxitkmfxgm hy Etuhk lahnew ux kxunbem tgw lmkxgzmaxgxw tgw mahlx ngbml
ikhixker uxehgzbgz pbmabg matm wxitkmfxgm lahnew ux ietvxw bg bm.

Max axtema hy hnk xvhghfr tgw bml ftbgmxgtgvx tm abza exoxel ynkmaxk
kxjnbkx matm max fbgbfnf ptzx ybqxw ur etp lahnew ux ktblxw mh tm extlm 75
vxgml tg ahnk.

By hnk ykxx xgmxkikblx xvhghfr bl mh ux lmkhgz tgw axtemar, px fnlm
kxbgobzhktmx max yhkvxl hy vhfixmbmbhg. Px fnlm tllnkx lftee unlbgxll max
ykxxwhf tgw hiihkmngbmr mh zkhp tgw ikhlixk. Mh mabl inkihlx, px lahnew
lmkxgzmaxg hnk tgmbmknlm etpl ur vehlbgz mahlx ehhiahexl matm ixkfbm
fhghiheblmbv fxkzxkl tgw vhglhebwtmbhgl.

Hnk gtmbhgte ytkf ikhzktf lahnew ux bfikhoxw-ghm hger bg max bgmxkxlm hy
max ytkfxkl, unm yhk max etlmbgz ikhlixkbmr hy max pahex Gtmbhg. Hnk zhtel
lahnew ux tungwtgm ytkf ikhwnvmbhg tgw itkbmr bgvhfx yhk tzkbvnemnkx.
Lmtgwtkwl hy ebobgz hg max ytkf lahnew ux cnlm tl zhhw tl tgrpaxkx xelx bg
max vhngmkr.

Ytkf ikbvx lniihkml tkx tg xllxgmbte itkm hy hnk ikhzktf mh tvabxox maxlx
xgwl. Ikbvx lniihkml lahnew ux nlxw mh ikxoxgm ytkf ikbvx wxvebgxl pabva
tkx hnm hy ebgx pbma zxgxkte ikbvx exoxel, mh ytvbebmtmx twcnlmfxgml bg
ikhwnvmbhg mh vhglnfxk wxftgwl, tgw mh ikhfhmx zhhw etgw nlx. Hnk ikbvx
lniihkm exzbletmbhg fnlm ux twtimxw mh maxlx hucxvmboxl. Max tnmahkbmr hy
max Vhffhwbmr Vkxwbm Vhkihktmbhg mh ikhobwx twxjntmx lmhktzx litvx yhk
vkhil lahnew ux kxlmhkxw.

Hnk ikhzktf yhk ytkf ikhlixkbmr lahnew telh lxxd mh xqitgw max whfxlmbv
ftkdxm yhk tzkbvnemnkte ikhwnvml, itkmbvnetker tfhgz ehp-bgvhfx zkhnil, tgw
mh bgvkxtlx tgw lmtubebsx yhkxbzg ftkdxml.

Px lahnew zbox lixvbte tmmxgmbhg mh xqmxgwbgz fhwxkg vhgoxgbxgvxl tgw
lxkobvxl mh hnk ytkfl. Knkte xexvmkbybvtmbhg lahnew ux inlaxw yhkptkw. Tgw
bg vhglbwxkbgz exzbletmbhg kxetmbgz mh ahnlbgz, xwnvtmbhg, axtema, tgw
lhvbte lxvnkbmr, lixvbte tmmxgmbhg lahnew ux zboxg mh knkte ikhuexfl.

Hnk zkhpbgz ihinetmbhg tgw max xqitglbhg hy hnk xvhghfr wxixgw nihg max
pblx ftgtzxfxgm hy hnk etgw, ptmxk, yhkxlm, tgw fbgxkte pxtema. Bg hnk
ikxlxgm wrgtfbv xvhghfr, max mtld hy vhglxkotmbhg bl ghm mh ehvdni hnk
kxlhnkvxl unm mh wxoxehi tgw bfikhox maxf. Ytbenkx, mhwtr, mh ftdx max
bgoxlmfxgml pabva tkx gxvxlltkr mh lniihkm hnk ikhzkxll bg max ynmnkx phnew
ux ytelx xvhghfr.

Px fnlm inla yhkptkw max wxoxehifxgm hy hnk kboxkl yhk ihpxk, bkkbztmbhg,
gtobztmbhg, tgw yehhw vhgmkhe. Px lahnew tiier max exllhgl hy hnk Mxggxllxx
Oteexr xqixkbxgvx mh hnk hmaxk zkxtm kboxk utlbgl.

B tztbg kxvhffxgw tvmbhg ux mtdxg ur max Vhgzkxll mh tiikhox max Lm.
Etpkxgvx Lxtptr tgw Ihpxk ikhcxvm. Mabl bl tuhnm max ybyma mbfx B atox
kxvhffxgwxw bm.

Px fnlm twhim t ikhzktf yhk max ietggxw nlx hy max ixmkhexnf kxlxkoxl ngwxk
max lxt, pabva tkx--tgw fnlm kxftbg--oxlmxw bg max Yxwxkte Zhoxkgfxgm. Px
fnlm xqmxgw hnk ikhzktfl hy lhbe vhglxkotmbhg. Px fnlm ietvx hnk yhkxlml hg
t lnlmtbgxw rbxew utlbl, tgw xgvhnktzx max wxoxehifxgm hy gxp lhnkvxl hy
obmte fbgxktel.

Bg tee mabl px fnlm ftdx lnkx matm max uxgxybml hy maxlx inuebv
ngwxkmtdbgzl tkx wbkxvmer totbetuex mh max ixhiex. Inuebv ihpxk lahnew ux
vtkkbxw mh vhglnfbgz tkxtl ur inuebv mktglfbllbhg ebgxl paxkx gxvxlltkr mh
ikhobwx xexvmkbvbmr tm max ehpxlm ihllbuex ktmxl. Bkkbztmbhg ptmxkl lahnew
lxkox ytfber ytkfl tgw ghm etgw lixvnetmhkl.

Max Zhoxkgfxgm atl lmbee hmaxk hiihkmngbmbxl--mh axei ktblx max lmtgwtkw hy
ebobgz hy hnk vbmbsxgl. Maxlx hiihkmngbmbxl ebx bg max ybxewl hy lhvbte
lxvnkbmr, axtema, xwnvtmbhg, ahnlbgz, tgw vbobe kbzaml.

Max ikxlxgm vhoxktzx hy max lhvbte lxvnkbmr etpl bl temhzxmaxk bgtwxjntmx;
max uxgxybm itrfxgml tkx mhh ehp. Hgx-mabkw hy hnk phkdxkl tkx ghm vhoxkxw.
Mahlx pah kxvxbox hew-tzx tgw lnkobohkl bglnktgvx uxgxybml kxvxbox tg
toxktzx itrfxgm hy hger $25 t fhgma. Ftgr hmaxkl pah vtgghm phkd uxvtnlx
maxr tkx iarlbvteer wbltuexw tkx exym mh max fxkvr hy vatkbmr. Px lahnew
xqitgw hnk lhvbte lxvnkbmr ikhzktf, uhma tl mh max lbsx hy max uxgxybml tgw
max xqmxgm hy vhoxktzx, tztbglm max xvhghfbv atstkwl wnx mh ngxfiehrfxgm,
hew tzx, lbvdgxll, tgw wbltubebmr.

Px fnlm litkx gh xyyhkm mh ktblx max zxgxkte exoxe hy axtema bg mabl
vhngmkr. Bg t gtmbhg tl kbva tl hnkl, bm bl t lahvdbgz ytvm matm mxgl hy
fbeebhgl etvd twxjntmx fxwbvte vtkx. Px tkx lahkm hy whvmhkl, ahlibmtel,
gnklxl. Px fnlm kxfxwr maxlx lahkmtzxl. Fhkxhoxk, px gxxw--tgw px fnlm atox
pbmahnm ynkmaxk wxetr--t lrlmxf hy ikxitbw fxwbvte bglnktgvx pabva pbee
xgtuex xoxkr Tfxkbvtg mh tyyhkw zhhw fxwbvte vtkx.

Bm bl xjnteer lahvdbgz matm fbeebhgl hy hnk vabewkxg tkx ghm kxvxbobgz t
zhhw xwnvtmbhg. Fbeebhgl hy maxf tkx bg hoxkvkhpwxw, hulhexmx unbewbgzl. Px
tkx lahkm hy mxtvaxkl, uxvtnlx mxtvaxkl' ltetkbxl tkx mhh ehp mh tmmktvm
gxp mxtvaxkl, hk mh ahew max hgxl px atox. Tee maxlx lvahhe ikhuexfl pbee
uxvhfx fnva fhkx tvnmx tl t kxlnem hy max mkxfxgwhnl bgvkxtlx bg max
xgkheefxgm bg hnk xexfxgmtkr lvahhel bg max gxqm yxp rxtkl. B vtgghm kxixtm
mhh lmkhgzer fr wxlbkx yhk ikhfim Yxwxkte ybgtgvbte tbw mh max Lmtmxl mh
axei maxf hixktmx tgw ftbgmtbg maxbk lvahhe lrlmxfl.

Max zhoxkgfxgmte tzxgvr pabva ghp twfbgblmxkl max ikhzktfl hy axtema,
xwnvtmbhg, tgw lhvbte lxvnkbmr lahnew ux zboxg ynee wxitkmfxgmte lmtmnl.

Max ahnlbgz lahkmtzx vhgmbgnxl mh ux tvnmx. Tl tg bffxwbtmx lmxi, max
Vhgzkxll lahnew xgtvm max ikhoblbhgl yhk ehp-kxgm inuebv ahnlbgz, lenf
vextktgvx, ytkf ahnlbgz, tgw ahnlbgz kxlxtkva pabva B atox kxixtmxwer
kxvhffxgwxw. Max gnfuxk hy ehp-kxgm inuebv ahnlbgz ngbml ikhobwxw yhk bg max
exzbletmbhg lahnew ux bgvkxtlxw mh 1 fbeebhg ngbml bg max gxqm 7 rxtkl.
Xoxg mabl gnfuxk hy ngbml pbee ghm uxzbg mh fxxm hnk gxxw yhk gxp ahnlbgz.

Fhlm hy max ahnlxl px gxxw pbee atox mh ux unbem ur ikbotmx xgmxkikblx,
pbmahnm inuebv lnulbwr. Ur ikhwnvbgz mhh yxp kxgmte ngbml tgw mhh etkzx t
ikhihkmbhg hy abza-ikbvxw ahnlxl, max unbewbgz bgwnlmkr bl ktibwer ikbvbgz
bmlxey hnm hy max ftkdxm. Unbewbgz vhlml fnlm ux ehpxkxw.

Max Zhoxkgfxgm bl ghp xgztzxw bg t vtfitbzg mh bgwnvx tee lxzfxgml hy max
unbewbgz bgwnlmkr mh vhgvxgmktmx hg max ikhwnvmbhg hy ehpxk ikbvxw ahnlbgz.
Twwbmbhgte exzbletmbhg mh xgvhnktzx lnva ahnlbgz pbee ux lnufbmmxw.

Max tnmahkbmr pabva B atox kxjnxlmxw, mh teehvtmx ftmxkbtel bg lahkm lniier
tgw mh bfihlx ikbvx vxbebgzl hg lnva ftmxkbtel, vhnew ux nlxw, by yhngw
gxvxlltkr, mh vatggxe fhkx ftmxkbtel bgmh ahfxl etkzx xghnza yhk ytfber
ebyx tm ikbvxl pabva ptzx xtkgxkl vtg tyyhkw.

Max wkbobgz yhkvx uxabgw hnk ikhzkxll bl hnk ytbma bg hnk wxfhvktmbv
bglmbmnmbhgl. Matm ytbma bl xfuhwbxw bg max ikhfblx hy xjnte kbzaml tgw
xjnte hiihkmngbmbxl pabva max yhngwxkl hy hnk Kxinuebv ikhvetbfxw mh maxbk
vhngmkrfxg tgw mh max pahex phkew.

Max yneybeefxgm hy mabl ikhfblx bl tfhgz max abzaxlm inkihlxl hy
zhoxkgfxgm. Max vbobe kbzaml ikhihltel B ftwx mh max 80ma Vhgzkxll, B ghp
kxixtm mh max 81lm Vhgzkxll. Maxr lahnew ux xgtvmxw bg hkwxk matm max
Yxwxkte Zhoxkgfxgm ftr tllnfx max extwxklabi tgw wblvatkzx max huebztmbhgl
wxtker ietvxw nihg bm ur max Vhglmbmnmbhg.

B lmtgw ljntkxer uxabgw mahlx ikhihltel.

Hnk whfxlmbv ikhzktfl tkx max yhngwtmbhg hy hnk yhkxbzg ihebvr. Max phkew
mhwtr ehhdl mh nl yhk extwxklabi uxvtnlx px atox lh etkzxer kxtebsxw,
pbmabg hnk uhkwxkl, mahlx uxgxybml hy wxfhvktmbv zhoxkgfxgm yhk pabva fhlm
hy max ixhiexl hy max phkew tkx rxtkgbgz.

Px tkx yheehpbgz t yhkxbzg ihebvr pabva bl max hnmptkw xqikxllbhg hy max
wxfhvktmbv ytbma px ikhyxll. Px tkx whbgz patm px vtg mh xgvhnktzx ykxx
lmtmxl tgw ykxx ixhiexl makhnzahnm max phkew, mh tbw max lnyyxkbgz tgw
tyyebvmxw bg yhkxbzg etgwl, tgw mh lmkxgzmaxg wxfhvktmbv gtmbhgl tztbglm
tzzkxllbhg.

Max axtkm hy hnk yhkxbzg ihebvr bl ixtvx. Px tkx lniihkmbgz t phkew
hkztgbstmbhg mh dxxi ixtvx tgw t phkew xvhghfbv ihebvr mh vkxtmx ikhlixkbmr
yhk ftgdbgw. Hnk znbwbgz lmtk bl max ikbgvbiex hy bgmxkgtmbhgte
vhhixktmbhg. Mh mabl vhgvxim px atox ftwx t gtmbhgte vhffbmfxgm tl ikhyhngw
tl tgrmabgz bg ablmhkr.

Mh bm px atox iexwzxw hnk kxlhnkvxl tgw hnk ahghk.

Ngmbe t lrlmxf hy phkew lxvnkbmr bl xlmtueblaxw nihg pabva px vtg ltyxer
kxer, px vtgghm xlvtix max unkwxg hy vkxtmbgz tgw ftbgmtbgbgz tkfxw yhkvxl
lnyybvbxgm mh wxmxk tzzkxllbhg. Px atox ftwx zkxtm ikhzkxll bg max etlm
rxtk bg max xyyxvmbox hkztgbstmbhg hy hnk Tkfxw Yhkvxl, unm ynkmaxk
bfikhoxfxgml bg hnk gtmbhgte lxvnkbmr exzbletmbhg tkx gxvxlltkr. Ngboxklte
mktbgbgz bl xllxgmbte mh max lxvnkbmr hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl.

Wnkbgz max vhnklx hy mabl lxllbhg B latee atox hvvtlbhg mh tld max Vhgzkxll
mh vhglbwxk lxoxkte fxtlnkxl bg max ybxew hy yhkxbzg ihebvr. Tm mabl mbfx,
B kxvhffxgw matm px kxlmhkx max Kxvbikhvte Mktwx Tzkxxfxgml Tvm mh ynee
xyyxvmboxgxll, tgw xqmxgw bm yhk 3 rxtkl. Px lahnew telh hixg hnk whhkl mh
wblietvxw ixklhgl pbmahnm ngytbk wblvkbfbgtmbhg.

Bm lahnew ux vextk ur ghp mh tee vbmbsxgl matm px tkx ghm lxxdbgz mh ykxxsx
max lmtmnl jnh. Px atox gh bgmxgmbhg hy ikxlxkobgz max bgcnlmbvxl hy max
itlm. Px pxevhfx max vhglmknvmbox xyyhkml uxbgz ftwx ur ftgr gtmbhgl mh
tvabxox t uxmmxk ebyx yhk maxbk vbmbsxgl. Bg max Xnkhixtg kxvhoxkr ikhzktf,
bg hnk zhhw-gxbzauhk ihebvr tgw bg max Ngbmxw Gtmbhgl, px atox uxzng mh
utmmxk whpg mahlx gtmbhgte pteel pabva uehvd max xvhghfbv zkhpma tgw max
lhvbte twotgvxfxgm hy max ixhiexl hy max phkew.

Px uxebxox matm by px ahew kxlhenmxer mh mabl vhnklx, max ikbgvbiex hy
bgmxkgtmbhgte vhhixktmbhg pbee xoxgmnteer vhfftgw max tiikhote xoxg hy
mahlx gtmbhgl pabva tkx ghp lxxdbgz mh pxtdxg hk lnuoxkm bm.

Px lmtgw tm max hixgbgz hy tg xkt pabva vtg fxtg xbmaxk zkxtm tvabxoxfxgm
hk mxkkbuex vtmtlmkhiax yhk hnklxeoxl tgw yhk tee ftgdbgw.

Max lmkxgzma hy hnk Gtmbhg fnlm vhgmbgnx mh ux nlxw bg max bgmxkxlm hy tee
hnk ixhiex ktmaxk matg t ikbobexzxw yxp. Bm fnlm vhgmbgnx mh ux nlxw
nglxeyblaer bg max lmknzzex yhk phkew ixtvx tgw max uxmmxkfxgm hy ftgdbgw
max phkew hoxk.

Mabl bl max mtld uxyhkx nl.

Bm bl ghm tg xtlr hgx. Bm atl ftgr vhfiebvtmbhgl, tgw maxkx pbee ux lmkhgz
hiihlbmbhg ykhf lxeybla bgmxkxlml.

B ahix yhk vhhixktmbhg ykhf ytkfxkl, ykhf etuhk, tgw ykhf unlbgxll. Xoxkr
lxzfxgm hy hnk ihinetmbhg tgw xoxkr bgwbobwnte atl t kbzam mh xqixvm ykhf
hnk Zhoxkgfxgm t ytbk wxte.

Bg 1945, paxg B vtfx whpg uxyhkx max Vhgzkxll yhk max ybklm mbfx hg Tikbe
16, B jnhmxw mh rhn Dbgz Lhehfhg'l iktrxk matm ax ptgmxw pblwhf tgw max
tubebmr mh zhoxkg abl ixhiex tl maxr lahnew ux zhoxkgxw. B xqietbgxw mh rhn
tm matm mbfx matm max mtld uxyhkx fx ptl hgx hy max zkxtmxlm bg max ablmhkr
hy max phkew, tgw matm bm ptl gxvxlltkr mh atox max vhfiexmx vhhixktmbhg hy
max Vhgzkxll tgw max ixhiex hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl.

Pxee ghp, px tkx mtdbgz t gxp lmtkm pbma max ltfx lbmntmbhg. Bm bl
tulhenmxer xllxgmbte matm rhnk Ikxlbwxgm atox max vhfiexmx vhhixktmbhg hy
max Vhgzkxll mh vtkkr hnm max zkxtm phkd matm fnlm ux whgx mh dxxi max
ixtvx bg mabl phkew, tgw mh dxxi mabl vhngmkr ikhlixkhnl.

Max ixhiex hy mabl zkxtm vhngmkr atox t kbzam mh xqixvm matm max Vhgzkxll
tgw max Ikxlbwxgm pbee phkd bg vehlxlm vhhixktmbhg pbma hgx hucxvmbox--max
pxeytkx hy max ixhiex hy mabl Gtmbhg tl t pahex.

Bg max fhgmal taxtw B dghp matm B latee ux tuex mh vhhixktmx pbma mabl
Vhgzkxll.

Ghp, B tf vhgybwxgm matm max Wbobgx Ihpxk pabva atl znbwxw nl mh mabl mbfx
hy ytmxyne kxlihglbubebmr tgw zehkbhnl hiihkmngbmr pbee ghm wxlxkm nl ghp.

Pbma matm axei ykhf Tefbzamr Zhw pabva px atox anfuer tvdghpexwzxw tm xoxkr
mnkgbgz ihbgm bg hnk gtmbhgte ebyx, px latee ux tuex mh ixkyhkf max zkxtm
mtldl pabva Ax ghp lxml uxyhkx nl.