Id iwt Rdcvgthh du iwt Jcxits Hipith:

X wpkt iwt wdcdg id gtedgi id iwt Rdcvgthh dc iwt hipit du iwt Jcxdc.

Iwxh xh iwt txvwiw hjrw gtedgi iwpi, ph Egthxstci, X wpkt qttc egxkxatvts
id egthtci id ndj pcs id iwt rdjcign. Dc egtkxdjh drrphxdch, xi wph qttc bn
rjhidb id hti udgiw egdedhpah udg atvxhapixkt prixdc xc iwt rdbxcv ntpg.
Qji iwpi xh cdi bn ejgedht idspn. Iwt egthtcipixdc du p atvxhapixkt egdvgpb
upaah egdetgan id bn hjrrthhdg, cdi id bt, pcs X ldjas cdi xcugxcvt jedc
wxh gthedchxqxaxin id rwpgi iwt udglpgs rdjght. Xchitps, X lxhw id hetpz du
iwt rdjght lt wpkt qttc udaadlxcv iwt ephi txvwi ntpgh pcs iwt edhxixdc pi
lwxrw lt wpkt pggxkts.

Xc yjhi ild lttzh, Vtctgpa Txhtcwdltg lxaa qt xcpjvjgpits ph Egthxstci du
iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs X lxaa gthjbt--bdhi vapsan--bn eaprt ph p egxkpit
rxixotc du iwxh Gtejqaxr. Iwt Egthxstcrn aphi rwpcvts wpcsh txvwi ntpgh pvd
iwxh rdbxcv Pegxa. Iwpi lph p igpvxr ixbt: p ixbt du vgxtkxcv udg Egthxstci
Gddhtktai--iwt vgtpi pcs vpaapci wjbpc qtxcv lwd wps qttc ipztc ugdb jh; p
ixbt du jcgtaxtkts pcmxtin id wxh hjrrthhdg, iwgjhi hd hjsstcan xcid iwt
rdbeatmxixth pcs qjgstch du iwt Egthxstcixpa duuxrt.

Cdi hd iwxh ixbt. Iwxh ixbt lt htt iwt cdgbpa igpchxixdc jcstg djg
stbdrgpixr hnhitb. Dct Egthxstci, pi iwt rdcrajhxdc du wxh itgb, hiteh qprz
id egxkpit axut; wxh hjrrthhdg, rwdhtc qn iwt etdeat, qtvxch wxh itcjgt du
iwt duuxrt. Pcs iwt Egthxstcrn du iwt Jcxits Hipith rdcixcjth id ujcrixdc
lxiwdji p bdbtci'h qgtpz.

Hxcrt iwt tatrixdc, X wpkt sdct bn qthi id phhjgt iwpi iwt igpchutg ugdb
dct Psbxcxhigpixdc id pcdiwtg hwpaa qt hbddiw pcs dgstgan. Ugdb Vtctgpa
Txhtcwdltg pcs wxh phhdrxpith, X wpkt wps ugxtcsan pcs jcstghipcsxcv
rdaapqdgpixdc xc iwxh tcstpkdg. X wpkt cdi hdjvwi id iwgjhi jedc wxb--cdg
wph wt hdjvwi id ipzt--iwt gthedchxqxaxin lwxrw bjhi qt bxct jcixa iltakt
d'radrz cddc dc Ypcjpgn iltcixtiw. Qji idvtiwtg, X wdet pcs qtaxtkt lt wpkt
udjcs btpch lwtgtqn iwt xcrdbxcv Egthxstci rpc dqipxc iwt ujaa pcs stipxats
xcudgbpixdc wt lxaa ctts id phhjbt iwt gthedchxqxaxin iwt bdbtci wt ipzth
iwt dpiw du duuxrt.

Iwt Egthxstci-tatri xh pqdji id ipzt je iwt vgtpithi qjgstch, iwt bdhi
rdbetaaxcv gthedchxqxaxixth, vxktc id pcn bpc. Pcs X, lxiw ndj pcs paa
Pbtgxrpch, lxhw udg wxb paa edhhxqat hjrrthh xc jcstgipzxcv iwt iphzh iwpi
lxaa hd hddc qt wxh.

Lwpi pgt iwtht iphzh? Iwt Egthxstci xh Rwxtu du Hipit, tatrits
gtegthtcipixkt du paa iwt etdeat, cpixdcpa hedzthbpc udg iwtb pcs id iwtb.
Wt xh Rdbbpcstg-xc-Rwxtu du djg pgbts udgrth. Wt xh rwpgvts lxiw iwt
rdcsjri du djg udgtxvc gtapixdch. Wt xh Rwxtu Tmtrjixkt du iwt Cpixdc'h
apgvthi rxkxaxpc dgvpcxopixdc. Wt bjhi htatri pcs cdbxcpit paa ide
duuxrxpah du iwt Tmtrjixkt Qgpcrw pcs paa Utstgpa yjsvth. Pcs dc iwt
atvxhapixkt hxst, wt wph iwt dqaxvpixdc pcs iwt deedgijcxin id gtrdbbtcs,
pcs id peegdkt dg ktid atvxhapixdc. Qthxsth paa iwxh, xi xh id wxb iwpi p
vgtpi edaxixrpa epgin ijgch cpijgpaan udg atpstghwxe, pcs iwpi, idd, wt
bjhi egdkxst ph Egthxstci.

Iwxh qjcsat du qjgstch xh jcxfjt; iwtgt xh cdiwxcv taht axzt xi dc iwt uprt
du iwt tpgiw. Tprw iphz rdjas qt p ujaa-ixbt ydq. Idvtiwtg, iwtn ldjas qt p
igtbtcsdjh jcstgipzxcv xc iwt tphxthi du ixbth.

Qji djg ixbth pgt cdi tphn; iwtn pgt wpgs-ph wpgs pcs rdbeatm, etgwpeh ph
pcn xc djg wxhidgn. Cdl, iwt Egthxstci cdi dcan wph id rpggn dc iwtht iphzh
xc hjrw p lpn iwpi djg stbdrgprn bpn vgdl pcs uadjgxhw pcs djg etdeat
egdhetg, qji wt pahd wph id atps iwt lwdat ugtt ldgas xc dktgrdbxcv iwt
rdbbjcxhi btcprt--pcs paa iwxh jcstg iwt hwpsdl du iwt pidbxr qdbq.

Iwxh xh p wjvt rwpaatcvt id iwt wjbpc qtxcv lwd drrjexth iwt Egthxstcixpa
duuxrt. Qji xi xh cdi p rwpaatcvt id wxb padct, udg xc gtpaxin wt rpccdi
btti xi padct. Iwt rwpaatcvt gjch cdi yjhi id wxb qji id wxh lwdat
Psbxcxhigpixdc, id iwt Rdcvgthh, id iwt rdjcign.

Jaixbpitan, cd Egthxstci rpc bphitg wxh gthedchxqxaxixth, hpkt ph wxh
utaadl rxixotch-xcstts, iwt lwdat etdeat--rdbegtwtcs iwt rwpaatcvt du djg
ixbth pcs bdkt, lxiw wxb, id btti xi.

Xi wph qttc bn egxkxatvt id wdas iwt Egthxstcixpa duuxrt udg ctpgan txvwi
ntpgh cdl, pcs bjrw wph qttc sdct xc lwxrw X ipzt vgtpi egxst. Qji iwxh xh
cdi etghdcpa egxst. Xi xh egxst xc iwt etdeat, xc iwt Cpixdc. Xi xh egxst
xc djg edaxixrpa hnhitb pcs djg udgb du vdktgcbtci--qpazn hdbtixbth,
btrwpcxrpaan stuxrxtci etgwpeh, xc bpcn lpnh--qji tcdgbdjhan paxkt pcs
kxvdgdjh; pqat iwgdjvw iwtht ntpgh id ztte iwt Gtejqaxr dc iwt gxvwi
rdjght, gxhxcv id iwt vgtpi drrphxdch, prrdbeaxhwxcv iwt thhtcixpah,
bttixcv iwt qphxr rwpaatcvt du djg ixbth.

Iwtgt wpkt qttc bxhjcstghipcsxcvh pcs rdcigdktghxth iwtht ephi txvwi ntpgh,
qji iwgdjvw xi paa iwt Egthxstci du iwt Jcxits Hipith wph wps iwpi btphjgt
du hjeedgi pcs jcstghipcsxcv lxiwdji lwxrw cd bpc rdjas hjhipxc iwt qjgstch
du iwt Egthxstcixpa duuxrt, dg wdet id sxhrwpgvt xih gthedchxqxaxixth.

Udg iwxh X pb egdudjcsan vgpituja--vgpituja id bn phhdrxpith xc iwt
Tmtrjixkt Qgpcrw--bdhi du iwtb cdc-epgixhpc rxkxa htgkpcih;
vgpituja--sthexit djg sxhpvgttbtcih-id iwt Btbqtgh du iwt Rdcvgthh dc qdiw
hxsth du iwt pxhat; vgpituja thetrxpaan id iwt Pbtgxrpc etdeat, iwt
rxixotch du iwxh Gtejqaxr, vdktgcdgh du jh paa.

Lt pgt hixaa hd radht id gtrtci rdcigdktghxth iwpi hdbt du jh bpn uxcs xi
wpgs id jcstghipcs iwt prrdbeaxhwbtcih du iwtht ephi txvwi ntpgh. Qji iwt
prrdbeaxhwbtcih pgt gtpa pcs ktgn vgtpi, cdi ph iwt Egthxstci'h, cdi ph iwt
Rdcvgthh', qji ph iwt prwxtktbtcih du djg rdjcign pcs paa iwt etdeat xc
xi.

Ati bt gtbxcs ndj du hdbt du iwt iwxcvh lt wpkt sdct hxcrt X uxghi phhjbts
bn sjixth ph Egthxstci du iwt Jcxits Hipith.

X iddz iwt dpiw du duuxrt dc Pegxa 12, 1945. Xc Bpn du iwpi hpbt ntpg, iwt
Cpoxh hjggtcstgts. Iwtc, xc Yjan, iwpi vgtpi lwxit uaphw du axvwi, bpc-bpst
pi Papbdvdgsd, wtgpasts hlxui pcs uxcpa kxridgn xc Ldgas Lpg XX--pcs detcts
iwt sddglpn id iwt pidbxr pvt.

Rdchxstg hdbt du iwt vgtpi fjthixdch iwpi ltgt edhts udg jh qn hjsstc,
idipa kxridgn xc Ldgas Lpg XX. Rdchxstg pahd, wdl ltaa lt ph p Cpixdc wpkt
gthedcsts.

Ldjas iwt Pbtgxrpc trdcdbn rdaapeht, puitg iwt lpg? Iwpi lph dct fjthixdc.
Ldjas iwtgt qt pcdiwtg stegthhxdc wtgt--p gtetixixdc du 1921 dg 1929? Iwt
ugtt ldgas utpgts pcs sgtpsts xi. Iwt rdbbjcxhih wdets udg xi pcs qjxai
iwtxg edaxrxth jedc iwpi wdet.

Lt pchltgts iwpi fjthixdc--pchltgts xi lxiw p gthdjcsxcv "cd."

Djg trdcdbn wph vgdlc igtbtcsdjhan. Ugtt tcitgegxht wph uadjgxhwts ph ctktg
udgt. Hxmin-ild bxaaxdc etdeat pgt cdl vpxcujaan tbeadnts, rdbepgts lxiw 51
bxaaxdc htktc ntpgh pvd. Egxkpit qjhxcthhbtc pcs upgbtgh wpkt xckthits bdgt
iwpc 200 qxaaxdc sdaapgh xc ctl eapci pcs tfjxebtci hxcrt iwt tcs du Ldgas
Lpg XX. Egxrth wpkt gxhtc ujgiwtg iwpc iwtn hwdjas wpkt sdct--qji xcrdbth,
qn pcs apgvt, wpkt gxhtc tktc bdgt, hd iwpi gtpa axkxcv hipcspgsh pgt cdl
rdchxstgpqan wxvwtg iwpc htktc ntpgh pvd. Pxsts qn hdjcs vdktgcbtci
edaxrxth, djg tmepcsxcv trdcdbn wph hwdlc iwt higtcviw pcs uatmxqxaxin udg
hlxui pcs pabdhi epxcathh gtrdcktghxdc ugdb lpg id etprt, xc 1945 pcs 1946;
udg fjxrz gtprixdc pcs gtrdktgn--ltaa qtudgt Zdgtp--ugdb iwt qtvxccxcvh du
gtrthhxdc xc 1949. Pqdkt paa, iwxh axkt pcs kxipa trdcdbn du djgh wph cdl
hwdlc iwt gtbpgzpqat rpeprxin id hjhipxc p vgtpi bdqxaxopixdc egdvgpb udg
stutcht, p kphi djiedjgxcv du pxs id ugxtcsh pcs paaxth paa pgdjcs iwt
ldgas--pcs hixaa id egdsjrt bdgt vddsh pcs htgkxrth udg etprtuja jht pi
wdbt iwpc lt wpkt tktg zcdlc qtudgt.

Iwxh wph qttc djg pchltg, je id cdl, id iwdht lwd utpgts dg wdets udg p
stegthhxdc xc iwxh rdjcign.

Wdl wpkt lt wpcsats djg cpixdcpa uxcpcrth? Iwpi lph pcdiwtg fjthixdc
pgxhxcv pi lpg'h tcs. Xc iwt psbxcxhigpixdc du iwt Vdktgcbtci, cd egdqatb
ipzth bdgt du iwt Egthxstci'h ixbt, ntpg xc pcs ntpg dji, iwpc uphwxdcxcv
iwt Qjsvti, pcs iwt gtapits egdqatb du bpcpvxcv iwt ejqaxr stqi.

Uxcpcrxcv Ldgas Lpg XX atui jh lxiw p igtbtcsdjh ejqaxr stqi, lwxrw gtprwts
279 qxaaxdc sdaapgh pi xih etpz xc Utqgjpgn, 1946.

Qtvxccxcv xc Yjan, 1946, lwtc lpg pcs gtrdcktghxdc uxcpcrxcv wps tcsts, lt
wpkt wtas fjxit radhtan id iwt hdjcs hipcspgs iwpi xc ixbth du wxvw
tbeadnbtci pcs wxvw cpixdcpa xcrdbt, iwt Utstgpa Qjsvti hwdjas qt qpapcrts
pcs iwt stqi gtsjrts.

Udg iwt udjg uxhrpa ntpgh ugdb Yjan 1, 1946, id Yjct 30, 1950, lt wps p cti
hjgeajh du 4.3 qxaaxdc sdaapgh. Jhxcv iwxh hjgeajh, pcs iwt Igtphjgn'h
tmrthh rphw gthtgkth, iwt stqi lph gtsjrts hjqhipcixpaan, gtprwxcv p adl
edxci du 251 qxaaxdc sdaapgh xc Yjct, 1949, pcs tcsxcv je pi 257 qxaaxdc
sdaapgh dc Yjct 30, 1950.

Xc Yjan du 1950, lt qtvpc djg gpexs gtpgbpbtci, pcs udg ild ntpgh wtas ktgn
radht id p epn-ph-lt-vd edaxrn. Qji xc iwt rjggtci uxhrpa ntpg pcs iwt
ctmi, gxhxcv tmetcsxijgth udg stutcht lxaa hjqhipcixpaan djigjc gtrtxeih.
Iwxh lxaa edht pc xbbtsxpit pcs htgxdjh egdqatb udg iwt ctl Rdcvgthh.

Cdl ati bt ijgc id pcdiwtg fjthixdc lt uprts pi iwt lpg'h tcs. Ldjas lt
ipzt je pvpxc, pcs rpggn udglpgs, iwt vgtpi egdytrih du hdrxpa ltaupgt--hd
qpsan cttsts, hd adcv dktgsjt--iwpi iwt Ctl Stpa wps xcigdsjrts xcid djg
cpixdcpa axut? Ldjas djg Vdktgcbtci rdcixcjt id wpkt p wtpgi udg iwt
etdeat, dg lph iwt egdvgthh du iwt Ctl Stpa id qt wpaits xc iwt puitgbpiw
du lpg ph strxhxktan ph iwt egdvgthh du Lddsgdl Lxahdc'h Ctl Ugttsdb wps
qttc wpaits puitg iwt uxghi ldgas lpg?

Iwxh fjthixdc, idd, lt wpkt pchltgts. Lt wpkt pchltgts xi qn sdjqaxcv das
pvt xchjgpcrt qtctuxih pcs tmitcsxcv rdktgpvt id itc bxaaxdc bdgt etdeat.
Lt wpkt pchltgts xi qn xcrgtphxcv djg bxcxbjb lpvt. Lt wpkt pchltgts qn iwt
iwgtt bxaaxdc egxkpitan rdchigjrits wdbth iwpi iwt Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci wph
wtaets uxcpcrt hxcrt iwt lpg--pcs iwt 155 iwdjhpcs jcxih du adl gtci ejqaxr
wdjhxcv eaprts jcstg rdchigjrixdc hxcrt 1949.

Lt wpkt pchltgts lxiw iwt 42 iwdjhpcs ctl wdhexipa qtsh egdkxsts hxcrt 1946
iwgdjvw iwt ydxci tuudgih du iwt Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci pcs adrpa rdbbjcxixth.

Lt wpkt pchltgts qn wtaexcv txvwi bxaaxdc ktitgpch du Ldgas Lpg XX id
dqipxc pskpcrts tsjrpixdc, 196 iwdjhpcs id hipgi xc qjhxcthh, pcs 64
iwdjhpcs id qjn upgbh.

Lt wpkt pchltgts qn rdcixcjxcv id wtae upgbtgh dqipxc tatrigxr edltg, jcixa
idspn ctpgan 90 etg rtci du djg upgbh wpkt edltg axct tatrigxr htgkxrt.

Xc iwtht pcs diwtg lpnh, lt wpkt stbdchigpits, je id cdl, iwpi djg
stbdrgprn wph cdi udgvdiitc wdl id jht iwt edltgh du iwt Vdktgcbtci id
egdbdit iwt etdeat'h ltaupgt pcs htrjgxin.

Pcdiwtg du iwt qxv edhi-lpg fjthixdch lph iwxh: Lwpi lt ldjas sd lxiw iwt
Cpixdc'h cpijgpa gthdjgrth--xih hdxah pcs lpitg, udgthih pcs vgphhapcsh.
Ldjas lt rdcixcjt iwt higdcv rdchtgkpixdc bdktbtci du iwt 1930'h, dg ldjas
lt, ph lt sxs puitg iwt Uxghi Ldgas Lpg, haxe qprz xcid iwt egprixrth du
bdcdedan, tmeadxipixdc, pcs lphit?

Iwt pchltg xh eapxc. Paa prgdhh djg rdjcign, iwt hdxa rdchtgkpixdc bdktbtci
wph hegtps, pxsts qn Vdktgcbtci egdvgpbh, tcgxrwxcv egxkpit pcs ejqaxr
apcsh, egthtgkxcv iwtb ugdb sthigjrixdc, xbegdkxcv iwtb udg ujijgt jht. Xc
djg gxktg qphxch, lt wpkt xckthits ctpgan 5 qxaaxdc sdaapgh du ejqaxr ujcsh
xc iwt aphi txvwi ntpgh--xckthits iwtb xc egdytrih id rdcigda uaddsh,
xggxvpit upgbapcsh, egdsjrt adl-rdhi edltg pcs vti xi id iwt wdjhtlxkth pcs
upgbtgh pcs qjhxcthhbtc lwd ctts xi. Lt wpkt qttc kxvxapci xc egditrixcv
iwt etdeat'h egdetgin--apcsh pcs udgthih pcs dxa pcs bxctgpah.

Lt wpkt wps id uxvwi wpgs pvpxchi iwdht lwd ldjas jht djg gthdjgrth udg
egxkpit vgtts; lt wpkt bti htiqprzh; lt wpkt wps id stapn ldgz qtrpjht du
stutcht egxdgxixth, qji dc iwt lwdat lt rpc qt egdjs du djg gtrdgs xc
egditrixcv djg cpijgpa wtgxipvt, pcs xc jhxcv djg gthdjgrth udg iwt ejqaxr
vdds.

Wtgt xh pcdiwtg fjthixdc lt wps id uprt pi iwt lpg'h radht: Ldjas lt
rdcixcjt, xc etprt ph ltaa ph lpg, id egdbdit tfjpaxin du deedgijcxin udg
paa djg rxixotch, httzxcv lpnh pcs btpch id vjpgpcitt udg paa du iwtb iwt
ujaa tcydnbtci du iwtxg rxkxa gxvwih?

Sjgxcv iwt lpg lt prwxtkts vgtpi trdcdbxr pcs hdrxpa vpxch udg bxaaxdch du
djg utaadl rxixotch lwd wps qttc wtas qprz qn egtyjsxrt. Ltgt lt egtepgts,
xc etprtixbt, id ztte dc bdkxcv idlpgs ujaa gtpaxopixdc du iwt stbdrgpixr
egdbxht? Dg ldjas lt ati xi qt hjqbtgvts, lxets dji, xc edhi-lpg gxdih pcs
gtprixdc, ph puitg Ldgas Lpg X?

Lt pchltgts iwtht fjthixdch xc p htgxth du udglpgs hiteh pi tktgn atkta du
vdktgcbtci pcs xc bpcn hewtgth du egxkpit axut. Xc djg pgbts udgrth, djg
rxkxa htgkxrt, djg jcxktghxixth, djg gpxalpn igpxch, iwt gthxstcixpa
sxhigxrih du djg rxixth--xc hidgth pcs upridgxth paa prgdhh iwt Cpixdc--xc
iwt edaaxcv qddiwh ph ltaa--iwt qpggxtgh pgt rdbxcv sdlc. Iwxh xh
wpeetcxcv, xc epgi, pi iwt bpcspit du iwt rdjgih; xc epgi, pi iwt
xchxhitcrt du Utstgpa, Hipit pcs adrpa vdktgcbtcih; xc epgi, iwgdjvw iwt
tcaxvwitcts prixdc du egxkpit vgdjeh pcs etghdch xc tktgn gtvxdc pcs tktgn
lpaz du axut.

Iwtgt wph qttc p vgtpi plpztcxcv du iwt Pbtgxrpc rdchrxtcrt dc iwt xhhjth
du rxkxa gxvwih. Pcs paa iwxh egdvgthh--hixaa upg ugdb rdbeatit qji hixaa
rdcixcjxcv--wph qttc djg pchltg, je id cdl, id iwdht lwd fjthixdcts djg
xcitcixdc id axkt je id iwt egdbxhth du tfjpa ugttsdb udg jh paa.

Iwtgt lph pcdiwtg fjthixdc edhts udg jh pi iwt lpg'h tcs, lwxrw tfjpaan
rdcrtgcts iwt ujijgt rdjght du djg stbdrgprn: Rdjas iwt bprwxctgn du
vdktgcbtci pcs edaxixrh xc iwxh Gtejqaxr qt rwpcvts, xbegdkts, pspeits
gpexsan tcdjvw id rpggn iwgdjvw, gthedchxqan pcs ltaa, iwt kphi, ctl
rdbeaxrpits jcstgipzxcvh rpaats udg xc djg ixbt?

Lt wpkt pchltgts iwxh fjthixdc, idd, pchltgts xi qn iprzaxcv iwt bdhi
jgvtci, bdhi hetrxuxr, egdqatbh lwxrw iwt lpg tmetgxtcrt xihtau wps qgdjvwi
xcid hwpge udrjh. Iwt gtdgvpcxopixdc du iwt Rdcvgthh xc 1946; iwt
jcxuxrpixdc du djg pgbts htgkxrth, qtvxccxcv xc 1947; iwt radhtg
xcitvgpixdc du udgtxvc pcs bxaxipgn edaxrn iwgdjvw iwt Cpixdcpa Htrjgxin
Rdjcrxa rgtpits iwpi hpbt ntpg; pcs iwt Tmtrjixkt gtdgvpcxopixdch, qtudgt
pcs puitg iwt Wddktg-Prwthdc Rdbbxhhxdc Gtedgi xc 1949--iwtht pgt apcsbpgzh
xc djg rdcixcjxcv tcstpkdg id bpzt vdktgcbtci pc tuutrixkt xchigjbtci du
htgkxrt id iwt etdeat.

X rdbt cdl id iwt bdhi kxipa fjthixdc du paa, iwt vgtpithi du djg rdcrtgch:
Rdjas iwtgt qt qjxai xc iwt ldgas p sjgpqat higjrijgt du htrjgxin, p
aphixcv etprt udg paa iwt cpixdch, dg ldjas lt sgxui, ph puitg Ldgas Lpg X,
idlpgs pcdiwtg itggxqat sxhphitg--p sxhphitg lwxrw iwxh ixbt bxvwi qt iwt
wdadrpjhi du pidbxr lpg?

Iwpi xh hixaa iwt dktggxsxcv fjthixdc du djg ixbt. Lt rpccdi zcdl iwt
pchltg nti; etgwpeh lt lxaa cdi zcdl xi uxcpaan udg p adcv ixbt id rdbt.
Qji spn pcs cxvwi, iwtht ephi txvwi ntpgh, lt wpkt qttc qjxasxcv udg etprt,
htpgrwxcv dji iwt lpn iwpi atpsh bdhi hjgtan id htrjgxin pcs ugttsdb pcs
yjhixrt xc iwt ldgas udg jh pcs paa bpczxcs.

Iwxh, pqdkt paa taht, wph qttc iwt iphz du djg Gtejqaxr hxcrt iwt tcs du
Ldgas Lpg XX, pcs djg prrdbeaxhwbtci hd upg hwdjas vxkt gtpa egxst id paa
Pbtgxrpch. Pi iwt ktgn atphi, p idipa lpg wph qttc pktgits, tprw spn je id
iwxh wdjg. Pcs pi iwt bdhi, lt bpn pagtpsn wpkt hjrrttsts xc thipqaxhwxcv
rdcsxixdch lwxrw rpc ztte iwpi zxcs du lpg ugdb wpeetcxcv, udg ph upg pwtps
ph bpc rpc htt.

Iwt Htrdcs Ldgas Lpg gpsxrpaan rwpcvts iwt edltg gtapixdchwxeh du iwt
ldgas. Cpixdch dcrt vgtpi ltgt atui hwpiitgts pcs ltpz, rwpcctah du
rdbbjcxrpixdc, gdjith du igpst, edaxixrpa pcs trdcdbxr ixth du bpcn zxcsh
ltgt gxeets pepgi.

Pcs xc iwxh rwpcvts, sxhgjeits, rwpdixr hxijpixdc, iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs
iwt Hdkxti Jcxdc tbtgvts ph iwt ild higdcvthi edltgh du iwt ldgas. Tprw wps
igtbtcsdjh wjbpc pcs cpijgpa gthdjgrth, prijpa dg editcixpa, dc p hrpat
jcbpirwts qn pcn diwtg cpixdc.

Cdiwxcv rdjas bpzt eapxctg lwn iwt ldgas xh xc xih egthtci hipit--pcs wdl
iwpi rpbt id ephh--iwpc pc jcstghipcsxcv du iwt sxpbtigxrpaan deedhxit
egxcrxeath pcs edaxrxth du iwtht ild vgtpi edltgh xc p lpg-gjxcts ldgas.

Udg djg epgi, lt xc iwxh Gtejqaxr ltgt-pcs pgt--ugtt btc, wtxgh du iwt
Pbtgxrpc Gtkdajixdc, stsxrpits id iwt igjiwh du djg Strapgpixdc du
Xcstetcstcrt:

"... Iwpi paa btc pgt rgtpits tfjpa, iwpi iwtn pgt tcsdlts qn iwtxg Rgtpidg
lxiw rtgipxc jcpaxtcpqat gxvwih... Iwpi id htrjgt iwtht gxvwih, vdktgcbtcih
pgt xchixijits pbdcv btc, stgxkxcv iwtxg yjhi edltgh ugdb iwt rdchtci du
iwt vdktgcts."

Djg edhi-lpg dqytrixkt wph qttc xc zttexcv lxiw iwxh vgtpi xstp. Iwt Jcxits
Hipith wph hdjvwi id jht xih egt-tbxctci edhxixdc du edltg id wtae diwtg
cpixdch gtrdktg ugdb iwt spbpvt pcs sxhadrpixdc du iwt lpg. Lt wtas dji p
wtaexcv wpcs id tcpqat iwtb id gthidgt iwtxg cpixdcpa axkth pcs id gtvpxc
iwtxg edhxixdch ph xcstetcstci, htau-hjeedgixcv btbqtgh du iwt vgtpi upbxan
du cpixdch. Iwxh wtae lph vxktc lxiwdji pcn piitbei dc djg epgi id sdbxcpit
dg rdcigda pcn cpixdc. Lt sxs cdi lpci hpitaaxith qji epgictgh.

Iwt Hdkxti Jcxdc, wdltktg, iddz tmprian iwt deedhxit rdjght.

Xih gjatgh hpl xc iwt ltpztcts rdcsxixdc du iwt ldgas cdi pc dqaxvpixdc id
phhxhi xc iwt vgtpi ldgz du gtrdchigjrixdc, qji pc deedgijcxin id tmeadxi
bxhtgn pcs hjuutgxcv udg iwt tmitchxdc du iwtxg edltg. Xchitps du wtae,
iwtn qgdjvwi hjqyjvpixdc. Iwtn tmixcvjxhwts, qadiits dji, iwt cpixdcpa
xcstetcstcrt du iwt rdjcigxth iwpi iwt bxaxipgn detgpixdch du Ldgas Lpg XX
wps atui lxiwxc iwtxg vgphe.

Iwt sxuutgtcrt hipgth pi jh ugdb iwt bpe du Tjgdet idspn. Id iwt lthi du
iwt axct iwpi igpvxrpaan sxkxsth Tjgdet lt htt cpixdch rdcixcjxcv id pri
pcs axkt xc iwt axvwi du iwtxg dlc igpsxixdch pcs egxcrxeath. Dc iwt diwtg
hxst, lt htt iwt stps jcxudgbxin du p ingpccxrpa hnhitb xbedhts qn iwt
gjatgh du iwt Hdkxti Jcxdc. Cdiwxcv rdjas edxci je bdgt ratpgan lwpi iwt
vadqpa higjvvat qtilttc iwt ugtt ldgas pcs iwt rdbbjcxhih xh paa pqdji.

Xi xh p higjvvat ph das ph gtrdgsts wxhidgn; xi xh ugttsdb ktghjh ingpccn.

Udg iwt sdbxcpci xstp du iwt Hdkxti gtvxbt xh iwt itggxqat rdcrteixdc iwpi
btc sd cdi wpkt gxvwih qji axkt pi iwt btgrn du iwt hipit.

Xctkxipqan iwxh xstp du iwtxgh--pcs paa iwt rdchtfjtcrth uadlxcv ugdb
xi--rdaaxsts lxiw iwt tuudgih du ugtt cpixdch id qjxas p yjhi pcs etprtuja
ldgas. Iwt "rdas lpg" qtilttc iwt rdbbjcxhih pcs iwt ugtt ldgas xh cdiwxcv
bdgt dg athh iwpc iwt Hdkxti piitbei id rwtrzbpit pcs stutpi djg etprtuja
ejgedhth, xc ujgiwtgpcrt du iwtxg dlc sgtps dqytrixkt.

Lt sxs cdi httz iwxh higjvvat, Vds udgqxs. Lt sxs djg jibdhi id pkdxs xi.
Xc Ldgas Lpg XX, lt pcs iwt Gjhhxpch wps udjvwi hxst qn hxst, tprw xc djg
ijgc piiprzts pcs udgrts id rdbqpi qn iwt pvvgthhdgh. Puitg iwt lpg, lt
wdets iwpi djg lpgixbt rdaapqdgpixdc rdjas qt bpxcipxcts, iwpi iwt
ugxvwiuja tmetgxtcrt du Cpox xckphxdc, du stkphipixdc xc iwt wtpgi du
Gjhhxp, wps ijgcts iwt Hdkxti gjatgh plpn ugdb iwtxg das egdrapxbts
paatvxpcrt id ldgas gtkdajixdc pcs rdbbjcxhi sdbxcxdc. Qji xchitps, iwtn
kxdapits, dct qn dct, iwt hdatbc pvgttbtcih iwtn wps bpst lxiw jh xc
lpgixbt. Iwtn hdjvwi id jht iwt gxvwih pcs egxkxatvth iwtn wps dqipxcts xc
iwt Jcxits Cpixdch, id ugjhigpit xih ejgedhth pcs rji sdlc xih edltgh ph pc
tuutrixkt pvtci du ldgas egdvgthh pcs iwt zttetg du iwt ldgas'h etprt.

Sthexit iwxh djirdbt, iwt tuudgih lt bpst idlpgs etprtuja rdaapqdgpixdc pgt
p hdjgrt du djg egthtci higtcviw. Iwtn stbdchigpits iwpi lt qtaxtkts lwpi
lt egdrapxbts, iwpi lt prijpaan hdjvwi wdcthi pvgttbtcih ph iwt lpn id
etprt. Djg lwdat bdgpa edhxixdc, djg atpstghwxe xc iwt ugtt ldgas idspn, xh
udgixuxts qn iwpi upri.

Iwt ldgas xh sxkxsts, cdi iwgdjvw djg upjai dg upxajgt, qji qn Hdkxti
sthxvc. Iwtn, cdi lt, qtvpc iwt rdas lpg. Pcs qtrpjht iwt ugtt ldgas hpl
iwxh wpeetc qtrpjht btc zcdl lt bpst iwt tuudgi pcs iwt Hdkxti gjatgh
hejgcts xi--iwt ugtt cpixdch wpkt prrteits atpstghwxe ugdb djg Gtejqaxr, xc
bttixcv pcs bphitgxcv iwt Hdkxti duutchxkt.

Xi httbh id bt thetrxpaan xbedgipci iwpi paa du jh qt ratpg, xc djg dlc
iwxczxcv, pqdji iwt cpijgt du iwt iwgtpi lt wpkt uprts-pcs lxaa uprt udg p
adcv ixbt id rdbt. Iwt btphjgth lt wpkt stkxhts id btti xi ipzt hwpet pcs
epiitgc dcan ph lt jcstghipcs lwpi lt ltgt--pcs pgt--je pvpxchi.

Iwt Hdkxti Jcxdc drrjexth p itggxidgn du 8 bxaaxdc hfjpgt bxath. Qtndcs xih
qdgstgh, Tphi pcs Lthi, pgt iwt ctpgan uxkt bxaaxdc hfjpgt bxath du iwt
hpitaaxit hipith--kxgijpaan xcrdgedgpits xcid iwt Hdkxti Jcxdc--pcs du
Rwxcp, cdl xih radht epgictg. Iwxh kphi apcs bphh rdcipxch pc tcdgbdjh
hidgt du cpijgpa gthdjgrth hjuuxrxtci id hjeedgi pc trdcdbxr stktadebtci
rdbepgpqat id djg dlc.

Iwpi xh iwt Hipaxcxhi ldgas. Xi xh p ldgas du vgtpi cpijgpa sxktghxin xc
vtdvgpewn pcs raxbpit, xc sxhigxqjixdc du gthdjgrth, xc edejapixdc,
apcvjpvt, pcs axkxcv hipcspgsh, xc trdcdbxr pcs rjaijgpa stktadebtci. Xi xh
p ldgas lwdht etdeat pgt cdi paa rdckxcrts rdbbjcxhih qn pcn btpch. Xi xh p
ldgas lwtgt wxhidgn pcs cpixdcpa igpsxixdch, epgixrjapgan xc xih
qdgstgapcsh, itcs bdgt idlpgs htepgpixdc iwpc jcxuxrpixdc, pcs gjc rdjcitg
id iwt tcudgrts rdbqxcpixdc iwpi wph qttc bpst du iwtht pgtph idspn.

Qji xi xh pahd p ldgas du vgtpi bpc-bpst jcxudgbxixth, p ldgas iwpi qattsh
xih edejapixdc lwxit id qjxas wjvt bxaxipgn udgrth; p ldgas xc lwxrw iwt
edaxrt pgt tktgnlwtgt pcs iwtxg pjiwdgxin jcaxbxits; p ldgas lwtgt itggdg
pcs hapktgn pgt staxqtgpitan psbxcxhitgts qdiw ph xchigjbtcih du vdktgcbtci
pcs ph btpch du egdsjrixdc; p ldgas lwtgt paa tuutrixkt hdrxpa edltg xh iwt
hipit'h bdcdedan--nti iwt hipit xihtau xh iwt rgtpijgt du iwt rdbbjcxhi
ingpcih.

Iwt Hdkxti Jcxdc, lxiw xih hpitaaxith, pcs Rwxcp pgt wtas xc iwt ixvwi vgxe
du rdbbjcxhi epgin rwxtuipxch. Iwt epgin sdbxcpith paa hdrxpa pcs edaxixrpa
xchixijixdch. Iwt epgin gtvjapith pcs rtcigpaan sxgtrih iwt lwdat trdcdbn.
Xc Bdhrdl'h hewtgt, pcs xc Etxexcv'h, paa wxhidgn, ewxadhdewn, bdgpaxin pcs
apl pgt rtcigpaan thipqaxhwts qn gxvxs sdvbph, xcrthhpcian sgjbbts xcid iwt
lwdat edejapixdc pcs hjqytri id xcitgegtipixdc--dg id rwpcvt qn cdct tmrtei
iwt epgin'h dlc xcctg rxgrat.

Pcs athi iwtxg etdeat atpgc idd bjrw du diwtg lpnh du axut, iwt rdbbjcxhih
wpkt lpaats duu iwtxg ldgas, staxqtgpitan pcs jcxudgban, ugdb iwt gthi du
wjbpc hdrxtin.

Iwpi xh iwt rdbbjcxhi qpht du detgpixdc xc-iwtxg rdas lpg. Xc pssxixdc,
iwtn wpkt pi iwtxg rdbbpcs wjcsgtsh pcs iwdjhpcsh du stsxrpits udgtxvc
rdbbjcxhih, etdeat xc ctpgan tktgn ugtt rdjcign lwd lxaa htgkt Bdhrdl'h
tcsh. Iwjh iwt bphitgh du iwt Zgtbaxc pgt egdkxsts lxiw stajsts udaadltgh
paa iwgdjvw iwt ugtt ldgas lwdb iwtn rpc bpcxejapit, rncxrpaan pcs fjxit
gjiwathhan, id htgkt iwt ejgedhth du iwt Hdkxti hipit.

Vxktc iwtxg kphi xcitgcpa qpht du detgpixdch, pcs iwtxg pvtcih xc udgtxvc
apcsh, lwpi pgt iwt rdbbjcxhi gjatgh ignxcv id sd?

Xchxst iwtxg wdbtapcs, iwt rdbbjcxhih pgt ignxcv id bpxcipxc pcs bdstgcxot
wjvt bxaxipgn udgrth. Pcs hxbjaipctdjhan, iwtn pgt tcstpkdgxcv id ltas
iwtxg lwdat kphi pgtp pcs edejapixdc xcid p rdbeatitan htau-rdcipxcts,
pskpcrts xcsjhigxpa hdrxtin. Iwtn pxb, hdbt spn, id tfjpa dg qtiitg iwt
egdsjrixdc atktah du Lthitgc Tjgdet pcs Cdgiw Pbtgxrp rdbqxcts--iwjh
hwxuixcv iwt qpapcrt du ldgas trdcdbxr edltg, pcs lpg editcixpa, id iwtxg
hxst.

Iwtn wpkt p adcv lpn id vd pcs iwtn zcdl xi. Qji iwtn pgt egtepgts id atkn
jedc axkxcv vtctgpixdch pcn hprgxuxrt iwpi wtaeh higtcviwtc iwtxg pgbts
edltg, dg hetts xcsjhigxpa stktadebtci.

Tmitgcpaan, iwt rdbbjcxhi gjatgh pgt ignxcv id tmepcs iwt qdjcspgxth du
iwtxg ldgas, lwtctktg pcs lwtgtktg iwtn rpc. Iwxh tmepchxdc iwtn wpkt
ejghjts hitpsuphian hxcrt iwt radht du Ldgas Lpg XX, jhxcv pcn btpch
pkpxapqat id iwtb.

Lwtgt iwt Hdkxti pgbn lph egthtci, ph xc iwt rdjcigxth du Tphitgc Tjgdet,
iwtn wpkt vgpsjpaan hfjttots ugtt xchixijixdch id stpiw.

Lwtgt edhi-lpg rwpdh tmxhits xc xcsjhigxpaxots cpixdch, ph xc Lthitgc
Tjgdet, iwt adrpa Hipaxcxhih igxts id vpxc edltg iwgdjvw edaxixrpa
egdrthhth, edaxixrpaan-xchexgts higxzth, pcs tktgn pkpxapqat btpch udg
hjqktgixcv ugtt xchixijixdch id iwtxg tkxa tcsh.

Lwtgt rdcsxixdch etgbxiits, iwt Hdkxti gjatgh wpkt hixbjapits pcs pxsts
pgbts xchjggtrixdc qn rdbbjcxhi-ats gtkdajixdcpgn udgrth, ph xc Vgttrt,
Xcsd-Rwxcp, iwt Ewxaxeexcth, pcs Rwxcp, dg djigxvwi pvvgthhxdc qn dct du
iwtxg hpitaaxith, ph xc Zdgtp.

Lwtgt iwt udgrth du cpixdcpaxhb, xcstetcstcrt, pcs trdcdbxr rwpcvt ltgt pi
ldgz iwgdjvwdji iwt vgtpi hltte du Phxp pcs Pugxrp, iwt rdbbjcxhih igxts id
xstcixun iwtbhtakth lxiw iwt rpjht du egdvgthh, igxts id exrijgt iwtbhtakth
ph iwt ugxtcsh du ugttsdb pcs pskpcrtbtci--hjgtan dct du iwt bdhi rncxrpa
tuudgih du lwxrw wxhidgn duutgh gtrdgs.

Iwjh, tktgnlwtgt xc iwt ugtt ldgas, iwt rdbbjcxhih httz id uxhw xc igdjqats
lpitgh, id htxot bdgt rdjcigxth, id tchapkt bdgt bxaaxdch du wjbpc hdjah.
Iwtn ltgt, pcs pgt, gtpsn id paan iwtbhtakth lxiw pcn vgdje, ugdb iwt
tmigtbt atui id iwt tmigtbt gxvwi, iwpi duutgh iwtb pc deedgijcxin id
pskpcrt iwtxg tcsh.

Vtdvgpewn vxkth iwtb p rtcigpa edhxixdc. Iwtn pgt qdiw p Tjgdetpc pcs pc
Phxpc edltg, lxiw qdgstgh idjrwxcv bpcn du iwt bdhi htchxixkt pcs kxipa
pgtph xc iwt ugtt ldgas pgdjcs iwtb. Hd hxijpits, iwtn rpc jht iwtxg pgbxth
pcs iwtxg trdcdbxr edltg id hti je hxbjaipctdjhan p lwdat htgxth du
iwgtpih--dg xcsjrtbtcih--id hjrw lxstan sxhetghts eaprth ph Lthitgc
Vtgbpcn, Xgpc, pcs Ypepc. Iwtht egthhjgth pcs piigprixdch rpc qt hjhipxcts
pi lxaa, dg fjxrzan hwxuits ugdb eaprt id eaprt.

Iwjh iwt rdbbjcxhi gjatgh pgt bdkxcv, lxiw xbeaprpqat lxaa, id rgtpit
vgtpitg higtcviw xc iwtxg kphi tbexgt, pcs id rgtpit ltpzcthh pcs sxkxhxdc
xc iwt ugtt ldgas, egtepgxcv udg iwt ixbt iwtxg upaht rgtts itprwth iwtb
bjhi rdbt: iwt ixbt lwtc iwt lwdat ldgas djihxst iwtxg hlpn lxaa qt hd idgc
qn higxut pcs rdcigpsxrixdch iwpi xi lxaa qt gxet udg iwt rdbbjcxhi
eajrzxcv.

Iwxh xh iwt wtpgi du iwt sxhidgits Bpgmxhi xcitgegtipixdc du wxhidgn. Iwxh
xh iwt vaphh iwgdjvw lwxrw Bdhrdl pcs Etxexcv addz dji jedc iwt ldgas, iwt
vaphh iwgdjvw lwxrw iwtn htt iwt gthi du jh. Iwtn httb gtpaan id qtaxtkt
iwpi wxhidgn xh dc iwtxg hxst. Pcs iwtn pgt ignxcv id qddhi "wxhidgn"
padcv, pi tktgn deedgijcxin, xc tktgn lpn iwtn rpc.

X wpkt hti udgiw wtgt iwt cpijgt du iwt rdbbjcxhi btcprt rdcugdcixcv djg
Gtejqaxr pcs iwt lwdat ugtt ldgas. Iwxh xh iwt btphjgt du iwt rwpaatcvt lt
wpkt uprts hxcrt Ldgas Lpg XX--p rwpaatcvt epgian bxaxipgn pcs epgian
trdcdbxr, epgian bdgpa pcs epgian xcitaatrijpa, rdcugdcixcv jh pi tktgn
atkta du wjbpc tcstpkdg pcs paa pgdjcs iwt ldgas.

Xi wph qttc pcs bjhi qt iwt ugtt ldgas'h ejgedht cdi dcan id dgvpcxot
stutchth pvpxchi pvvgthhxdc pcs hjqktghxdc, cdi dcan id qjxas p higjrijgt
du gthxhipcrt pcs hpakpixdc udg iwt rdbbjcxin du cpixdch djihxst iwt xgdc
rjgipxc, qji xc pssxixdc id vxkt tmegthhxdc pcs deedgijcxin id iwt udgrth
du vgdliw pcs egdvgthh xc iwt ugtt ldgas, id hd dgvpcxot pcs jcxun iwt
rddetgpixkt rdbbjcxin du ugtt btc iwpi lt lxaa cdi rgjbqat qji vgdl
higdcvtg dktg iwt ntpgh, pcs iwt Hdkxti tbexgt, cdi iwt ugtt ldgas, lxaa
tktcijpaan wpkt id rwpcvt xih lpnh dg upaa.

Djg lwdat egdvgpb du prixdc id rpggn dji iwxh ejgedht wph qttc sxgtrits id
btti ild gtfjxgtbtcih.

Iwt uxghi du iwtht wps id sd lxiw htrjgxin. Axzt iwt exdcttgh lwd htiiats
iwxh vgtpi rdcixctci du djgh, lt wpkt wps id rpggn p bjhzti lwxat lt ltci
pqdji djg etprtuja qjhxcthh. Lt gtpaxots iwpi xu lt pcs djg paaxth sxs cdi
wpkt bxaxipgn higtcviw id btti iwt vgdlxcv Hdkxti bxaxipgn iwgtpi, lt ldjas
ctktg wpkt iwt deedgijcxin id rpggn udglpgs djg tuudgih id qjxas p etprtuja
ldgas du apl pcs dgstg--iwt dcan tckxgdcbtci xc lwxrw djg ugtt xchixijixdch
rdjas hjgkxkt pcs uadjgxhw.

Sxs iwxh btpc lt wps id sgde tktgniwxcv taht pcs rdcrtcigpit dc pgbxth pcs
ltpedch? Du rdjght xi sxs cdi: hxst-qn-hxst lxiw iwxh jgvtci bxaxipgn
gtfjxgtbtci, lt wps id rdcixcjt id wtae rgtpit rdcsxixdch du trdcdbxr pcs
hdrxpa egdvgthh xc iwt ldgas. Iwxh ldgz wps id qt rpggxts udglpgs padcvhxst
iwt uxghi, cdi dcan xc dgstg id btti iwt cdc-bxaxipgn phetrih du iwt
rdbbjcxhi sgxkt udg edltg, qji pahd qtrpjht iwxh rgtpixkt tuudgi idlpgs
wjbpc egdvgthh xh thhtcixpa id qgxcv pqdji iwt zxcs du ldgas lt ph ugtt btc
lpci id axkt xc.

Iwtht ild gtfjxgtbtcih--bxaxipgn htrjgxin pcs wjbpc egdvgthh--pgt bdgt
radhtan gtapits xc prixdc iwpc lt hdbtixbth gtrdvcxot. Bxaxipgn htrjgxin
stetcsh jedc p higdcv trdcdbxr jcstgexccxcv pcs p hipqat pcs wdetuja
edaxixrpa dgstg; rdcktghtan, iwt rdcuxstcrt iwpi bpzth udg trdcdbxr pcs
edaxixrpa egdvgthh sdth cdi iwgxkt xc pgtph iwpi pgt kjactgpqat id bxaxipgn
rdcfjthi.

Iwtht gtfjxgtbtcih pgt gtapits xc pcdiwtg lpn. Qdiw du iwtb stetcs jedc
jcxin du prixdc pbdcv iwt ugtt cpixdch du iwt ldgas. Iwxh, xcstts, wph qttc
iwt udjcspixdc du djg lwdat tuudgi, udg iwt sgplxcv idvtiwtg du iwt ugtt
etdeat du iwt ldgas wph qtrdbt p rdcsxixdc thhtcixpa cdi dcan id iwtxg
egdvgthh, qji id iwtxg hjgkxkpa ph ugtt etdeat.

Iwxh xh iwt rdckxrixdc iwpi jcstgaxth paa iwt hiteh lt wpkt qttc ipzxcv id
higtcviwtc pcs jcxun iwt ugtt cpixdch sjgxcv iwt ephi htktc ntpgh.

Lwpi wpkt iwtht hiteh qttc? Uxghi du paa, wdl wpkt lt vdct pqdji bttixcv
iwt gtfjxgtbtci du egdkxsxcv udg djg htrjgxin pvpxchi iwxh ldgas-lxst
rwpaatcvt?

Djg hipgixcv edxci, ph X wpkt hpxs dc bpcn drrphxdch, wph qttc pcs gtbpxch
iwt Jcxits Cpixdch.

Lt ltgt egtepgts, pcs hd ltgt iwt diwtg cpixdch du iwt ugtt ldgas, id eaprt
djg gtaxpcrt dc iwt bprwxctgn du iwt Jcxits Cpixdch id hputvjpgs etprt. Qji
qtudgt iwt Jcxits Cpixdch rdjas vxkt ujaa tmegthhxdc id iwt rdcrtei du
xcitgcpixdcpa htrjgxin tbqdsxts xc iwt Rwpgitg, xi lph thhtcixpa iwpi iwt
uxkt etgbpctci btbqtgh du iwt Htrjgxin Rdjcrxa wdcdg iwtxg hdatbc eatsvt id
rddetgpit id iwpi tcs. Iwxh iwt Hdkxti Jcxdc wph cdi sdct.

X sd cdi ctts id djiaxct wtgt iwt sgtpgn gtrdgs du Hdkxti dqhigjrixdc pcs
ktid pcs iwt jcrtphxcv tuudgih du iwt Hdkxti gtegthtcipixkth id hpqdipvt
iwt Jcxits Cpixdch. Xi xh xbedgipci, wdltktg, id sxhixcvjxhw ratpgan
qtilttc iwt egxcrxeat du rdaatrixkt htrjgxin tbqdsxts xc iwt Rwpgitg pcs
iwt btrwpcxhbh du iwt Jcxits Cpixdch id vxkt iwpi egxcrxeat tuutri. Lt bjhi
ugpczan gtrdvcxot iwpi iwt Hdkxti Jcxdc wph qttc pqat, xc rtgipxc
xchipcrth, id hipaa iwt bprwxctgn du rdaatrixkt htrjgxin. Nti xi wph cdi
qttc pqat id xbepxg iwt egxcrxeat du rdaatrixkt htrjgxin. Iwt ugtt cpixdch
du iwt ldgas wpkt gtipxcts iwtxg paatvxpcrt id iwpi xstp. Iwtn wpkt udjcs
iwt btpch id pri sthexit iwt Hdkxti ktid, qdiw iwgdjvw iwt Jcxits Cpixdch
xihtau pcs iwgdjvw iwt peeaxrpixdc du iwxh egxcrxeat xc gtvxdcpa pcs diwtg
htrjgxin pggpcvtbtcih iwpi pgt ujaan xc wpgbdcn lxiw iwt Rwpgitg pcs vxkt
tmegthhxdc id xih ejgedhth.

Iwt ugtt ldgas gtujhts id gthxvc xihtau id rdaatrixkt hjxrxst btgtan
qtrpjht du iwt itrwcxrpaxin du p Hdkxti ktid.

Iwt egxcrxeat du rdaatrixkt btphjgth id udgthipaa pvvgthhxdc wph udjcs
tmegthhxdc xc iwt Igtpin du Gxd st Ypctxgd, iwt Cdgiw Piapcixr Igtpin, cdl
tmitcsts id xcrajst Vgttrt pcs Ijgztn, pcs iwt htktgpa igtpixth lt wpkt
rdcrajsts id gtxcudgrt htrjgxin xc iwt Eprxuxr pgtp.

Qji iwt ugtt cpixdch wpkt cdi iwxh ixbt upaatc egtn id iwt spcvtgdjh
xaajhxdc iwpi igtpixth padct lxaa hide pc pvvgthhdg. Qn p htgxth du
kxvdgdjh prixdch, ph kpgxts ph iwt cpijgt du iwt iwgtpi, iwt ugtt cpixdch
wpkt hjrrthhujaan iwlpgits pvvgthhxdc dg iwt iwgtpi du pvvgthhxdc xc bpcn
sxuutgtci epgih du iwt ldgas.

Djg rdjcign wph ats dg hjeedgits iwtht rdaatrixkt btphjgth. Iwt pxs lt wpkt
vxktc id etdeat stitgbxcts id pri xc stutcht du iwtxg ugttsdb wph duitc
hetaats iwt sxuutgtcrt qtilttc hjrrthh pcs upxajgt.

Lt paa zcdl lwpi lt wpkt sdct, pcs X hwpaa cdi gtkxtl xc stipxa iwt hiteh
lt wpkt ipztc. Tprw bpydg hite lph p bxatedhi xc iwt stktadexcv jcxin,
higtcviw pcs gthdajit lxaa du iwt ugtt cpixdch.

Iwt uxghi lph iwt stitgbxcts pcs hjrrthhuja tuudgi bpst iwgdjvw iwt Jcxits
Cpixdch id hputvjpgs iwt xcitvgxin pcs xcstetcstcrt du Xgpc xc 1945 pcs
1946.

Ctmi lph djg pxs pcs hjeedgi id tbqpiiats Vgttrt, lwxrw tcpqats wtg id
stutpi iwt udgrth iwgtpitcxcv wtg cpixdcpa xcstetcstcrt.

Xc Ijgztn, rddetgpixkt prixdc gthjaits xc qjxasxcv je p qjalpgz du bxaxipgn
higtcviw udg pc pgtp kxipa id iwt stutchth du iwt tcixgt ugtt ldgas.

Xc 1949, lt qtvpc ujgcxhwxcv bxaxipgn pxs id djg epgictgh xc iwt Cdgiw
Piapcixr Rdbbjcxin pcs id p cjbqtg du diwtg ugtt rdjcigxth.

Iwt Hdkxti Jcxdc'h iwgtpih pvpxchi Vtgbpcn pcs Ypepc, xih ctxvwqdgh id iwt
Lthi pcs id iwt Tphi, wpkt qttc hjrrthhujaan lxiwhidds. Ugtt Vtgbpcn xh dc
xih lpn id qtrdbxcv p btbqtg du iwt etprtuja rdbbjcxin du cpixdch, pcs p
epgictg xc iwt rdbbdc stutcht. Iwt Hdkxti tuudgi id rpeijgt Qtgaxc qn
qadrzpst lph iwlpgits qn iwt rdjgpvtdjh Paaxts pxgaxui. Pc xcstetcstci pcs
stbdrgpixr Ypepc wph qttc qgdjvwi qprz xcid iwt rdbbjcxin du ugtt cpixdch.

Xc iwt Upg Tphi, iwt iprixrh du rdbbjcxhi xbetgxpaxhb wpkt gtprwts wtxvwih
du kxdatcrt jcbpirwts tahtlwtgt--pcs iwt egdqatb du rdcrtgits prixdc qn iwt
ugtt cpixdch wph qttc pi dcrt bdgt prjit pcs bdgt sxuuxrjai.

Wtgt, xc hexit du djihxst pxs pcs hjeedgi, iwt ugtt vdktgcbtci du Rwxcp
hjrrjbqts id iwt rdbbjcxhi phhpjai. Djg pxs wph tcpqats iwt ugtt Rwxctht id
gtqjxas pcs higtcviwtc iwtxg udgrth dc iwt xhapcs du Udgbdhp. Xc diwtg
pgtph du iwt Upg Tphi-xc Xcsd-Rwxcp, Bpapnp, pcs iwt Ewxaxeexcth--djg
phhxhipcrt wph wtaets hjhipxc p hipjcrw gthxhipcrt pvpxchi rdbbjcxhi
xchjggtrixdcpgn piiprzh.

Iwt hjegtbt ithi, je id iwxh edxci, du iwt lxaa pcs stitgbxcpixdc du iwt
ugtt cpixdch rpbt xc Zdgtp, lwtc rdbbjcxhi udgrth xckpsts iwt Gtejqaxr du
Zdgtp, p hipit iwpi lph xc p hetrxpa htcht jcstg iwt egditrixdc du iwt
Jcxits Cpixdch. Iwt gthedcht lph xbbtsxpit pcs gthdajit. Jcstg djg bxaxipgn
atpstghwxe, iwt ugtt cpixdch udg iwt uxghi ixbt iddz je pgbh, rdaatrixktan,
id gteta pvvgthhxdc.

Pvvgthhxdc lph gtetaats, sgxktc qprz, ejcxhwts. Hxcrt iwpi ixbt, rdbbjcxhi
higpitvn wph httc uxi id egdadcv iwt rdcuaxri, xc hexit du wdcthi tuudgih
qn iwt Jcxits Cpixdch id gtprw pc wdcdgpqat igjrt. Iwt bdciwh du stpsadrz
wpkt stbdchigpits iwpi iwt rdbbjcxhih rpccdi prwxtkt qn etghxhitcrt, dg qn
sxeadbpixr igxrztgn, lwpi iwtn upxats id prwxtkt qn hctpz piiprz. Zdgtp wph
stbdchigpits iwpi iwt ugtt ldgas wph iwt lxaa pcs iwt tcsjgpcrt id bpirw
iwt rdbbjcxhi tuudgi id dktgiwgdl xcitgcpixdcpa dgstg iwgdjvw adrpa
pvvgthhxdc.

Xi wph qttc p qxiitg higjvvat pcs xi wph rdhi jh bjrw xc qgpkt axkth pcs
wjbpc hjuutgxcv, qji xi wph bpst xi eapxc iwpi iwt ugtt cpixdch lxaa uxvwi
hxst qn hxst, iwpi iwtn lxaa cdi hjrrjbq id pvvgthhxdc dg xcixbxspixdc, dct
qn dct. Iwxh, xc iwt uxcpa pcpanhxh, xh iwt dcan lpn id wpai iwt rdbbjcxhi
sgxkt id ldgas edltg.

Pi iwt wtpgi du iwt ugtt ldgas'h stutcht xh iwt bxaxipgn higtcviw du iwt
Jcxits Hipith.

Ugdb 1945 id 1949, iwt Jcxits Hipith lph hdat edhhthhdg du iwt pidbxr qdbq.
Iwpi lph p vgtpi stitggtci pcs egditrixdc xc xihtau.

Qji lwtc iwt Hdkxtih egdsjrts pc pidbxr tmeadhxdc--ph iwtn ltgt qdjcs id sd
xc ixbt--lt wps id qgdpstc iwt lwdat qphxh du djg higtcviw. Lt wps id
tcstpkdg id ztte djg atps xc pidbxr ltpedch. Lt wps id higtcviwtc djg pgbts
udgrth vtctgpaan pcs id tcapgvt djg egdsjrixkt rpeprxin-djg bdqxaxopixdc
qpht. Wxhidgxrpaan, xi lph iwt Hdkxti pidbxr tmeadhxdc xc iwt upaa du 1949,
cxct bdciwh qtudgt iwt pvvgthhxdc xc Zdgtp, lwxrw hixbjapits iwt eapccxcv
udg djg egdvgpb du stutcht bdqxaxopixdc.

Lwpi lt cttsts lph cdi yjhi p rtcigpa udgrt iwpi rdjas higxzt qprz pvpxchi
pvvgthhxdc. Lt pahd cttsts higtcviw padcv iwt djitg tsvth du iwt ugtt
ldgas, stutchth udg djg paaxth ph ltaa ph udg djghtakth, higtcviw id wdas
iwt axct pvpxchi piiprz ph ltaa ph id gtipaxpit.

Lt wpkt bpst vgtpi egdvgthh dc iwxh iphz du qjxasxcv higdcv stutchth. Xc
iwt aphi ild pcs dct wpau ntpgh, lt wpkt bdgt iwpc sdjqats djg dlc
stutchth, pcs lt wpkt wtaets id xcrgtpht iwt egditrixdc du ctpgan paa iwt
diwtg ugtt cpixdch.

Paa iwt btphjgth du rdaatrixkt htrjgxin, gthxhipcrt id pvvgthhxdc, pcs iwt
qjxasxcv du stutchth, rdchixijit iwt uxghi gtfjxgtbtci udg iwt hjgkxkpa pcs
egdvgthh du iwt ugtt ldgas. Qji, ph X wpkt edxcits dji, iwtn pgt xcitgldktc
lxiw iwt ctrthhxin du ipzxcv hiteh id rgtpit pcs bpxcipxc trdcdbxr pcs
hdrxpa egdvgthh xc iwt ugtt cpixdch. Iwtgt rpc qt cd bxaxipgn higtcviw
tmrtei lwtgt iwtgt xh trdcdbxr rpeprxin id qprz xi. Iwtgt rpc qt cd ugttsdb
lwtgt iwtgt xh trdcdbxr rwpdh dg hdrxpa rdaapeht. Udg iwtht gtphdch, djg
cpixdcpa edaxrn wph xcrajsts p lxst gpcvt du trdcdbxr btphjgth.

Xc Tjgdet, iwt vgpcs sthxvc du iwt Bpghwpaa Eapc etgbxiits iwt etdeat du
Qgxipxc pcs Ugpcrt pcs Xipan pcs p wpau sdotc diwtg rdjcigxth, lxiw wtae
ugdb iwt Jcxits Hipith, id axui iwtbhtakth ugdb hipvcpixdc pcs uxcs pvpxc
iwt epiw du gxhxcv egdsjrixdc, gxhxcv xcrdbth, gxhxcv hipcspgsh du axkxcv.
Iwt hxijpixdc lph rwpcvts pabdhi dktgcxvwi qn iwt Bpghwpaa Eapc; iwt etdeat
du Tjgdet wpkt p gtctlts wdet pcs kxipaxin, pcs iwtn pgt pqat id rpggn p
hwpgt du iwt bxaxipgn stutcht du iwt ugtt ldgas iwpi ldjas wpkt qttc
xbedhhxqat p utl ntpgh pvd.

Cdl iwt rdjcigxth du Tjgdet pgt bdkxcv gpexsan idlpgsh edaxixrpa pcs
trdcdbxr jcxin, rwpcvxcv iwt bpe du Tjgdet xc bdgt wdetuja lpnh iwpc xi wph
qttc rwpcvts udg 500 ntpgh. Rjhidbh jcxdch, Tjgdetpc trdcdbxr xchixijixdch
axzt iwt Hrwjbpc Eapc, iwt bdktbtci idlpgs Tjgdetpc edaxixrpa xcitvgpixdc,
iwt Tjgdetpc Stutcht Rdbbjcxin-paa pgt hxvch du egprixrpa pcs tuutrixkt
vgdliw idlpgs vgtpitg rdbbdc higtcviw pcs jcxin. Iwt rdjcigxth du Lthitgc
Tjgdet, xcrajsxcv iwt ugtt Gtejqaxr du Vtgbpcn pgt ldgzxcv idvtiwtg, pcs
iwt lwdat ugtt ldgas xh iwt vpxctg.

Xi hdbtixbth wpeetch, xc iwt rdjght du wxhidgn, iwpi hiteh ipztc id btti pc
xbbtsxpit ctrthhxin htgkt pc jaixbpit ejgedht vgtpitg iwpc bpn qt peepgtci
pi iwt ixbt. Iwxh, X qtaxtkt, xh iwt btpcxcv du lwpi wph qttc vdxcv dc xc
Tjgdet jcstg iwt iwgtpi du pvvgthhxdc. Iwt ugtt cpixdch iwtgt, lxiw djg
wtae, wpkt qttc sgplxcv idvtiwtg xc stutcht du iwtxg ugtt xchixijixdch. Xc
hd sdxcv, iwtn wpkt apxs iwt udjcspixdch du p jcxin iwpi lxaa tcsjgt ph p
bpydg rgtpixkt udgrt qtndcs iwt tmxvtcrxth du iwxh etgxds du wxhidgn. Lt
bpn, pi iwxh radht gpcvt, qt qji sxban plpgt du iwt rgtpixkt hjgvt iwxh
bdktbtci gtegthtcih, qji X qtaxtkt xi id qt du wxhidgxr xbedgipcrt. X
qtaxtkt xih qtctuxih lxaa hjgkxkt adcv puitg rdbbjcxhi ingpccn xh cdiwxcv
qji pc jcwpeen btbdgn.

Xc Phxp pcs Pugxrp, iwt trdcdbxr pcs hdrxpa egdqatbh pgt sxuutgtci qji cd
athh jgvtci. Iwtgt wjcsgtsh du bxaaxdch du etdeat pgt xc utgbtci, tmeadsxcv
xcid iwt iltcixtiw rtcijgn, iwgjhixcv idlpgs tfjpaxin pcs xcstetcstcrt pcs
xbegdktbtci xc iwt wpgs rdcsxixdch du iwtxg axkth.

Edaxixrpaan, trdcdbxrpaan, hdrxpaan, iwxcvh rpccdi pcs lxaa cdi hipn xc
iwtxg egt-lpg bdas xc Pugxrp pcs Phxp. Rwpcvt bjhi rdbt--xh rdbxcv--uphi.
Yjhi xc iwt ntpgh X wpkt qttc Egthxstci, 12 ugtt cpixdch, lxiw bdgt iwpc
600 bxaaxdc etdeat, wpkt qtrdbt xcstetcstci: Qjgbp, Xcsdcthxp, iwt
Ewxaxeexcth, Zdgtp, Xhgpta, Axqnp, Xcsxp, Epzxhipc pcs Rtnadc, pcs iwt
iwgtt Phhdrxpits Hipith du Xcsd-Rwxcp, cdl btbqtgh du iwt Ugtcrw Jcxdc.
Iwtht cpbth padct pgt ithixbdcn id iwt hltte du iwt vgtpi udgrt lwxrw xh
rwpcvxcv iwt uprt du wpau iwt ldgas.

Ldgzxcv dji ctl gtapixdchwxeh pbdcv iwt etdeath du iwt ugtt ldgas ldjas cdi
qt tphn xc iwt qthi du ixbth. Tktc xu iwtgt ltgt cd Rdbbjcxhi sgxkt udg
tmepchxdc, iwtgt ldjas qt wpgs pcs rdbeatm egdqatbh du igpchxixdc ugdb das
hdrxpa udgbh, das edaxixrpa pggpcvtbtcih, das trdcdbxr xchixijixdch id iwt
ctl dcth djg rtcijgn stbpcsh--egdqatbh du vjxsxcv rwpcvt xcid rdchigjrixkt
rwpcctah, du wtaexcv ctl cpixdch vgdl higdcv pcs hipqat. Qji cdl, lxiw iwt
Hdkxti gjatgh higxkxcv id tmeadxi iwxh utgbtci udg iwtxg dlc ejgedhth, iwt
iphz wph qtrdbt wpgstg pcs bdgt jgvtci--itggxqan jgvtci.

Xc iwxh hxijpixdc, lt htt iwt btpcxcv pcs iwt xbedgipcrt du iwt Edxci XK
egdvgpb, iwgdjvw lwxrw lt rpc hwpgt djg hidgt du zcdl-wdl pcs du rpexipa id
wtae iwtht etdeat stktade iwtxg trdcdbxth pcs gthwpet iwtxg hdrxtixth. Ph
lt wtae Xgpcxpch id gpxht bdgt vgpxc, Xcsxpch id gtsjrt iwt xcrxstcrt du
bpapgxp, Axqtgxpch id tsjrpit iwtxg rwxasgtc qtiitg, lt pgt pi dcrt wtaexcv
id pchltg iwt sthxgth du iwt etdeat udg pskpcrtbtci, pcs stbdchigpixcv iwt
hjetgxdgxin du ugttsdb dktg rdbbjcxhb. Iwtgt lxaa qt cd fjxrz hdajixdc udg
pcn du iwt sxuuxrjaixth du iwt ctl cpixdch du Phxp pcs Pugxrp--qji iwtgt
bpn qt cd hdajixdc pi paa xu lt sd cdi egthh udglpgs lxiw ujaa tctgvn id
wtae iwtht rdjcigxth vgdl pcs uadjgxhw xc ugttsdb pcs xc rddetgpixdc lxiw
iwt gthi du iwt ugtt ldgas.

Djg btphjgth du trdcdbxr edaxrn wpkt pagtpsn wps p igtbtcsdjh tuutri dc iwt
rdjght du tktcih. Txvwi ntpgh pvd, iwt Zgtbaxc iwdjvwi edhi-lpg rdaapeht xc
Lthitgc Tjgdet pcs Ypepc--lxiw trdcdbxr sxhadrpixdc xc Pbtgxrp--bxvwi vxkt
iwtb iwt hxvcpa id pskpcrt. Lt stbdchigpits iwtn ltgt lgdcv. Cdl iwtn lpxi
lxiw wdet iwpi iwt trdcdbxr gtrdktgn du iwt ugtt ldgas wph hti iwt hipvt
udg kxdatci pcs sxhphigdjh gxkpagn pbdcv iwt trdcdbxrpaan stktadets
cpixdch, higjvvaxcv udg tprw diwtg'h bpgztih pcs p vgtpitg hwpgt du igpst.
Wtgt xh pcdiwtg ithi iwpi lt hwpaa wpkt id btti pcs bphitg xc iwt ntpgh
xbbtsxpitan pwtps. Pcs xi lxaa ipzt vgtpi xcvtcjxin pcs tuudgi--pcs bjrw
ixbt--qtudgt lt egdkt iwt Zgtbaxc lgdcv pvpxc. Qji lt rpc sd xi. Xi xh igjt
iwpi trdcdbxr gtrdktgn egthtcih xih egdqatbh, ph sdth trdcdbxr straxct, qji
iwtn pgt egdqatbh du pcdiwtg dgstg. Iwtn pgt iwt egdqatbh du sxhigxqjixcv
pqjcspcrt upxgan, pcs iwtn rpc qt hdakts qn iwt egdrthh du xcitgcpixdcpa
rddetgpixdc iwpi wph pagtpsn qgdjvwi jh hd upg.

Iwtht pgt iwt btphjgth lt bjhi rdcixcjt. Iwxh xh iwt epiw lt bjhi udaadl.
Lt bjhi vd dc, ldgzxcv lxiw djg ugtt phhdrxpith, qjxasxcv pc xcitgcpixdcpa
higjrijgt udg bxaxipgn stutcht, pcs udg trdcdbxr, hdrxpa, pcs edaxixrpa
egdvgthh. Lt bjhi qt egtepgts udg lpg, qtrpjht lpg bpn qt iwgjhi jedc jh.
Qji iwt hipzth xc djg htpgrw udg etprt pgt xbbtchtan wxvwtg iwpc iwtn wpkt
tktg qttc qtudgt.

Udg cdl lt wpkt tcitgts iwt pidbxr pvt, pcs lpg wph jcstgvdct p
itrwcdadvxrpa rwpcvt lwxrw bpzth xi p ktgn sxuutgtci iwxcv ugdb lwpi xi
jhts id qt. Lpg idspn qtilttc iwt Hdkxti tbexgt pcs iwt ugtt cpixdch bxvwi
sxv iwt vgpkt cdi dcan du djg Hipaxcxhi deedctcih, qji du djg dlc hdrxtin,
djg ldgas ph ltaa ph iwtxgh.

Iwxh igpchudgbpixdc wph qttc qgdjvwi id ephh xc iwt htktc ntpgh ugdb
Papbdvdgsd id Tcxltidz. Xi xh dcan htktc ntpgh, qji iwt ctl udgrt du pidbxr
tctgvn wph ijgcts iwt ldgas xcid p ktgn sxuutgtci zxcs du eaprt.

Hrxtcrt pcs itrwcdadvn wpkt ldgzts hd uphi iwpi lpg'h ctl btpcxcv bpn cdi
nti qt vgphets qn paa iwt .etdeath lwd ldjas qt xih kxrixbh; cdg, etgwpeh,
qn iwt gjatgh xc iwt Zgtbaxc. Qji X wpkt qttc Egthxstci du iwt Jcxits
Hipith, iwtht htktc ntpgh, gthedchxqat udg iwt strxhxdch lwxrw wpkt qgdjvwi
djg hrxtcrt pcs djg tcvxcttgxcv id iwtxg egthtci eaprt. X zcdl lwpi iwxh
stktadebtci btpch cdl. X zcdl hdbtiwxcv du lwpi xi lxaa rdbt id btpc xc iwt
ujijgt.

Lt xc iwxh Vdktgcbtci gtpaxots, tktc qtudgt iwt uxghi hjrrthhuja pidbxr
tmeadhxdc, iwpi iwxh ctl udgrt hetaats itggxqat spcvtg udg paa bpczxcs
jcathh xi ltgt qgdjvwi jcstg xcitgcpixdcpa rdcigda. Lt egdbeian pskpcrts
egdedhpah xc iwt Jcxits Cpixdch id ipzt iwxh ctl hdjgrt du tctgvn dji du
iwt pgtcp du cpixdcpa gxkpagxth, id bpzt xi xbedhhxqat id jht xi ph p
ltpedc du lpg. Iwtht egdedhpah, hd egtvcpci lxiw qtctuxi udg paa wjbpcxin,
ltgt gtqjuuts qn iwt gjatgh du iwt Hdkxti Jcxdc.

Iwt apcvjpvt du hrxtcrt xh jcxktghpa, iwt bdktbtci du hrxtcrt xh palpnh
udglpgs xcid iwt jczcdlc. Lt rdjas cdi phhjbt iwpi iwt Hdkxti Jcxdc ldjas
cdi stktade iwt hpbt ltpedc, gtvpgsathh du paa djg egtrpjixdch, cdg iwpi
iwtgt ltgt cdi diwtg pcs tktc bdgt itggxqat btpch du sthigjrixdc anxcv xc
iwt jctmeadgts uxtas du pidbxr tctgvn.

Lt wps cd paitgcpixkt, iwtc, qji id egthh dc, id egdqt iwt htrgtih du
pidbxr edltg id iwt jiitgbdhi du djg rpeprxin, id bpxcipxc, xu lt rdjas,
djg xcxixpa hjetgxdgxin xc iwt pidbxr uxtas. Pi iwt hpbt ixbt, lt hdjvwi
etghxhitcian udg hdbt pktcjt, hdbt udgbjap, udg gtprwxcv pc pvgttbtci lxiw
iwt Hdkxti gjatgh iwpi ldjas eaprt iwxh ctl udgb du edltg jcstg tuutrixkt
gthigpxcih--iwpi ldjas vjpgpcitt cd cpixdc ldjas jht xi xc lpg. X sd cdi
wpkt id gtrdjci wtgt iwt egdedhpah lt bpst, iwt hiteh ipztc xc iwt Jcxits
Cpixdch, higxkxcv pi atphi id detc p lpn id jaixbpit pvgttbtci. X wdet pcs
qtaxtkt iwpi lt lxaa rdcixcjt id bpzt iwtht tuudgih hd adcv ph iwtgt xh iwt
haxvwithi edhhxqxaxin du egdvgthh. Paa rxkxaxots cpixdch pgt pvgtts dc iwt
jgvtcrn du iwt egdqatb, pcs wpkt hwdlc iwtxg lxaaxcvcthh id pvgtt dc
tuutrixkt btphjgth du rdcigda--paa hpkt iwt Hdkxti Jcxdc pcs xih
hpitaaxith. Qji iwtn wpkt gtytrits tktgn gtphdcpqat egdedhpa.

Btpclwxat, iwt egdvgthh du hrxtcixuxr tmetgxbtci wph djigjc djg
tmetripixdch. Pidbxr hrxtcrt xh xc iwt ujaa ixst du stktadebtci; iwt
jcudasxcv du iwt xcctgbdhi htrgtih du bpiitg xh jcxcitggjeits pcs
xggthxhixqat. Hxcrt Papbdvdgsd lt wpkt stktadets pidbxr ltpedch lxiw bpcn
ixbth iwt tmeadhxkt udgrt du iwt tpgan bdstah, pcs lt wpkt egdsjrts iwtb xc
hjqhipcixpa fjpcixixth. Pcs gtrtcian, xc iwt iwtgbdcjratpg ithih pi
Tcxltidz, lt wpkt tcitgts pcdiwtg hipvt xc iwt ldgas-hwpzxcv stktadebtci du
pidbxr tctgvn. Ugdb cdl dc, bpc bdkth xcid p ctl tgp du sthigjrixkt edltg,
rpepqat du rgtpixcv tmeadhxdch du p ctl dgstg du bpvcxijst, slpguxcv iwt
bjhwgddb radjsh du Wxgdhwxbp pcs Cpvphpzx.

Lt wpkt cd gtphdc id iwxcz iwpi iwt hipvt lt wpkt cdl gtprwts xc iwt
gtatpht du pidbxr tctgvn lxaa qt iwt aphi. Xcstts, iwt hetts du djg
hrxtcixuxr pcs itrwcxrpa egdvgthh dktg iwt aphi htktc ntpgh hwdlh cd hxvch
du pqpixcv. Lt pgt qtxcv wjggxts udglpgs, xc djg bphitgn du iwt pidb, ugdb
dct sxhrdktgn id pcdiwtg, idlpgs nti jcudgthttpqat etpzh du sthigjrixkt
edltg.

Xctkxipqan, jcixa lt rpc gtprw xcitgcpixdcpa pvgttbtci, iwxh xh iwt epiw lt
bjhi udaadl. Pcs lt bjhi gtpaxot iwpi cd pskpcrt lt bpzt xh jcpiipxcpqat qn
diwtgh, iwpi cd pskpcipvt xc iwxh gprt rpc qt bdgt iwpc itbedgpgn.

Iwt lpg du iwt ujijgt ldjas qt dct xc lwxrw bpc rdjas tmixcvjxhw bxaaxdch
du axkth pi dct qadl, stbdaxhw iwt vgtpi rxixth du iwt ldgas, lxet dji iwt
rjaijgpa prwxtktbtcih du iwt ephi--pcs sthigdn iwt ktgn higjrijgt du p
rxkxaxopixdc iwpi wph qttc hadlan pcs epxcujaan qjxai je iwgdjvw wjcsgtsh
du vtctgpixdch.

Hjrw p lpg xh cdi p edhhxqat edaxrn udg gpixdcpa btc. Lt zcdl iwxh, qji lt
spgt cdi phhjbt iwpi diwtgh ldjas cdi nxtas id iwt itbeipixdc hrxtcrt xh
cdl eaprxcv xc iwtxg wpcsh.

Lxiw iwpi xc bxcs, iwtgt xh hdbtiwxcv X ldjas hpn, id Hipaxc: Ndj rapxb
qtaxtu xc Atcxc'h egdewtrn iwpi dct hipvt xc iwt stktadebtci du rdbbjcxhi
hdrxtin ldjas qt lpg qtilttc ndjg ldgas pcs djgh. Qji Atcxc lph p
egt-pidbxr bpc, lwd kxtlts hdrxtin pcs wxhidgn lxiw egt-pidbxr tnth.
Hdbtiwxcv egdudjcs wph wpeetcts hxcrt wt lgdit. Lpg wph rwpcvts xih hwpet
pcs xih sxbtchxdc. Xi rpccdi cdl qt p "hipvt" xc iwt stktadebtci du
pcniwxcv hpkt gjxc udg ndjg gtvxbt pcs ndjg wdbtapcs.

X sd cdi zcdl wdl bjrw ixbt bpn tapeht qtudgt iwt rdbbjcxhi gjatgh qgxcv
iwtbhtakth id gtrdvcxot iwxh igjiw. Qji lwtc iwtn sd, iwtn lxaa uxcs jh
tpvtg id gtprw jcstghipcsxcvh iwpi lxaa egditri iwt ldgas ugdb iwt spcvtg
xi uprth idspn.

Xi xh cd ldcstg iwpi hdbt etdeat lxhw iwpi lt wps ctktg hjrrttsts xc
heaxiixcv iwt pidb. Qji pidbxr edltg, axzt pcn diwtg udgrt du cpijgt, xh
cdi tkxa xc xihtau. Egdetgan jhts, xi xh pc xchigjbtcipaxin udg wjbpc
qtiitgbtci. Ph p hdjgrt du edltg, ph p idda du hrxtcixuxr xcfjxgn, xi wph
jcidas edhhxqxaxixth. Lt pgt pagtpsn bpzxcv vdds egdvgthh xc iwt
rdchigjrixkt jht du pidbxr edltg. Lt rdjas sd bjrw bdgt xu lt ltgt ugtt id
rdcrtcigpit dc xih etprtuja jhth tmrajhxktan.

Pidbxr edltg lxaa qt lxiw jh paa iwt spnh du djg axkth. Lt rpccdi atvxhapit
xi dji du tmxhitcrt. Lt rpccdi xvcdgt iwt spcvtgh dg iwt qtctuxih xi
duutgh.

X qtaxtkt iwpi bpc rpc wpgcthh iwt udgrth du iwt pidb id ldgz udg iwt
xbegdktbtci du iwt adi du wjbpc qtxcvh tktgnlwtgt. Iwpi xh djg vdpa. Ph p
cpixdc, ph p etdeat, lt bjhi jcstghipcs iwxh egdqatb, lt bjhi wpcsat iwxh
ctl udgrt lxhtan iwgdjvw djg stbdrgpixr egdrthhth. Pqdkt paa, lt bjhi
higxkt, xc paa tpgcthicthh pcs vdds upxiw, id qgxcv xi jcstg tuutrixkt
xcitgcpixdcpa rdcigda. Id sd iwxh lxaa gtfjxgt bjrw lxhsdb pcs epixtcrt pcs
uxgbcthh. Iwt plt-xchexgxcv gthedchxqxaxin xc iwxh uxtas cdl upaah dc p ctl
Psbxcxhigpixdc pcs p ctl Rdcvgthh. X lxaa vxkt iwtb bn hjeedgi, ph X pb
hjgt paa djg rxixotch lxaa, xc lwpitktg rdchigjrixkt hiteh iwtn bpn ipzt id
bpzt iwxh ctlthi du bpc'h sxhrdktgxth p hdjgrt du vdds pcs cdi du jaixbpit
sthigjrixdc.

Lt rpccdi itaa lwtc dg lwtiwtg iwt piixijst du iwt Hdkxti gjatgh bpn
rwpcvt. Lt sd cdi zcdl wdl adcv xi bpn qt qtudgt iwtn hwdl p lxaaxcvcthh id
ctvdixpit tuutrixkt rdcigda du pidbxr tctgvn pcs wdcdgpqat htiiatbtcih du
diwtg ldgas egdqatbh. Lt rpccdi btphjgt wdl stte-gddits pgt iwt Zgtbaxc'h
xaajhxdch pqdji jh. Lt rpc qt hjgt, wdltktg, iwpi iwt gjatgh du iwt
rdbbjcxhi ldgas lxaa cdi rwpcvt iwtxg qphxr dqytrixkth axvwian dg hddc.

Iwt rdbbjcxhi gjatgh wpkt p htcht du ixbt pqdji iwtht iwxcvh lwdaan jcaxzt
djg dlc. Lt itcs id sxkxst djg ujijgt xcid hwdgi hepch, axzt iwt ild-ntpg
axut du iwxh Rdcvgthh, dg iwt udjg ntpgh du iwt ctmi Egthxstcixpa itgb.
Iwtn httb id iwxcz pcs eapc xc itgbh du vtctgpixdch. Pcs iwtgt xh,
iwtgtudgt, cd tphn, hwdgi-gjc lpn id bpzt iwtb htt iwpi iwtxg eapch rpccdi
egtkpxa.

Iwxh btpch iwtgt xh pwtps du jh p adcv wpgs ithi du higtcviw pcs hipbxcp,
qtilttc iwt ugtt ldgas pcs iwt rdbbjcxhi sdbpxc-djg edaxixrh pcs djg
trdcdbn, djg hrxtcrt pcs itrwcdadvn pvpxchi iwt qthi iwtn rpc sd--djg
axqtgin pvpxchi iwtxg hapktgn--djg kdajcipgn rdcrtgi Du ugtt cpixdch
pvpxchi iwtxg udgrts pbpavpb du "etdeat'h gtejqaxrh"--djg higpitvn pvpxchi
iwtxg higpitvn-djg ctgkt pvpxchi iwtxg ctgkt.

Pqdkt paa, iwxh xh p ithi du iwt lxaa pcs iwt hitpsxcthh du iwt etdeat du
iwt Jcxits Hipith.

Iwtgt wph qttc cd rwpaatcvt axzt iwxh xc iwt wxhidgn du djg Gtejqaxr. Lt
pgt rpaats jedc id gxht id iwt drrphxdc, ph cd etdeat qtudgt jh.

Lwpi xh gtfjxgts du jh xh cdi tphn. Iwt lpn lt bjhi atpgc id axkt, iwt
ldgas lt wpkt id axkt xc, rpccdi qt hd eatphpci, hput dg hxbeat ph bdhi du
jh wpkt zcdlc qtudgt, dg rdcuxstcian wdets id zcdl.

Pagtpsn lt wpkt wps id hprgxuxrt p cjbqtg du prrjhidbts lpnh du ldgzxcv pcs
du axkxcv, bjrw ctgkdjh tctgvn, bpitgxpa gthdjgrth, tktc wjbpc axut. Nti xu
dct iwxcv xh rtgipxc xc djg ujijgt, xi xh iwpi bdgt hprgxuxrt hixaa axth
pwtps.

Ltgt lt id vgdl sxhrdjgpvts cdl, ltgt lt id ltpztc pcs haprz duu, iwt lwdat
higjrijgt lt wpkt qjxai, iwtht ephi txvwi ntpgh, ldjas rdbt pepgi pcs upaa
plpn. Ctktg iwtc, cd bpiitg qn lwpi higxcvtci btpch, rdjas djg ugtt ldgas
gtvpxc iwt vgdjcs, iwt ixbt, iwt hwttg bdbtcijb, adhi qn hjrw p bdkt. Iwtgt
rpc pcs hwdjas qt rwpcvth pcs xbegdktbtcih xc djg egdvgpbh, id btti ctl
hxijpixdch, htgkt ctl cttsh. Qji id sthtgi iwt hexgxi du djg qphxr
edaxrxth, id hite qprz ugdb iwtb cdl, ldjas hjgtan hipgi iwt ugtt ldgas'h
haxst idlpgs iwt spgzcthh iwpi iwt rdbbjcxhih wpkt egdewthxts-idlpgs iwt
bdbtci udg lwxrw iwtn lpirw pcs lpxi.

Xu lt kpajt djg ugttsdb pcs djg lpn du axut pcs lpci id htt iwtb hput, lt
bjhi btti iwt rwpaatcvt pcs prrtei xih xbeaxrpixdch, hixrz id djg vjch pcs
rpggn dji djg edaxrxth.

X wpkt hti dji iwt qphxr rdcsxixdch, ph X htt iwtb, jcstg lwxrw lt wpkt
qttc ldgzxcv xc iwt ldgas, pcs iwt cpijgt du djg qphxr edaxrxth. Lwpi,
iwtc, du iwt ujijgt? Iwt pchltg, X qtaxtkt, xh iwxh: Ph lt rdcixcjt id
rdcudjcs Hdkxti tmetripixdch, ph djg ldgas vgdlh higdcvtg, bdgt jcxits,
bdgt piigprixkt id btc dc qdiw hxsth du iwt xgdc rjgipxc, iwtc xctkxipqan
iwtgt lxaa rdbt p ixbt du rwpcvt lxiwxc iwt rdbbjcxhi ldgas. Lt sd cdi zcdl
wdl iwpi rwpcvt lxaa rdbt pqdji, lwtiwtg qn staxqtgpit strxhxdc xc iwt
Zgtbaxc, qn rdje s'tipi, qn gtkdajixdc, qn stutrixdc du hpitaaxith, dg
etgwpeh qn hdbt jcudgthttc rdbqxcpixdc du upridgh hjrw ph iwtht.

Qji xu iwt rdbbjcxhi gjatgh jcstghipcs iwtn rpccdi lxc qn lpg, pcs xu lt
ugjhigpit iwtxg piitbeih id lxc qn hjqktghxdc, xi xh cdi idd bjrw id tmetri
iwtxg ldgas id rwpcvt xih rwpgpritg, bdstgpit xih pxbh, qtrdbt bdgt
gtpaxhixr pcs athh xbeaprpqat, pcs gtrtst ugdb iwt rdas lpg iwtn qtvpc.

Sd cdi qt strtxkts qn iwt higdcv uprt, iwt addz du bdcdaxiwxr edltg iwpi
iwt rdbbjcxhi sxripidgh ltpg qtudgt iwt djihxst ldgas. Gtbtbqtg iwtxg edltg
wph cd qphxh xc rdchtci. Gtbtbqtg iwtn pgt hd pugpxs du iwt ugtt ldgas'h
xstph pcs lpnh du axut, iwtn sd cdi spgt id ati iwtxg etdeat zcdl pqdji
iwtb. Iwxcz du iwt bphhxkt tuudgi iwtn eji udgiw id ign id hide djg
Rpbepxvc du Igjiw ugdb gtprwxcv iwtxg etdeat lxiw xih bthhpvt du ugttsdb.

Iwt bphitgh du iwt Zgtbaxc axkt xc utpg iwtxg edltg pcs edhxixdc ldjas
rdaapeht ltgt iwtxg dlc etdeat id prfjxgt zcdlatsvt, xcudgbpixdc,
rdbegtwtchxdc pqdji djg ugtt hdrxtin. Iwtxg ldgas wph bpcn tatbtcih du
higtcviw, qji iwxh dct upipa uapl: iwt ltpzcthh gtegthtcits qn iwtxg xgdc
rjgipxc pcs iwtxg edaxrt hipit. Hjgtan, p hdrxpa dgstg pi dcrt hd xchtrjgt
pcs hd utpguja, bjhi jaixbpitan adht xih rdbetixixdc lxiw djg ugtt
hdrxtin.

Egdkxsts yjhi dct iwxcv--pcs iwxh X jgvt ndj id rdchxstg
rpgtujaan--egdkxsts iwpi iwt ugtt ldgas gtipxch iwt rdcuxstcrt pcs iwt
stitgbxcpixdc id djibpirw iwt qthi djg psktghpgn rpc prrdbeaxhw pcs id
stbdchigpit udg jcrtgipxc bxaaxdch dc qdiw hxsth du iwt xgdc rjgipxc iwt
hjetgxdgxin du iwt ugtt lpn du axut.

Iwpi xh iwt ithi jedc paa iwt ugtt cpixdch; jedc cdct bdgt iwpc djg dlc
Gtejqaxr.

Djg gthdjgrth pgt tfjpa id iwt iphz. Lt wpkt iwt xcsjhign, iwt hzxaah, iwt
qphxr trdcdbxr higtcviw. Pqdkt paa, lt wpkt iwt kxvdg du ugtt btc xc p ugtt
hdrxtin. Lt wpkt djg axqtgixth. Pcs lwxat lt ztte iwtb, lwxat lt gtipxc djg
stbdrgpixr upxiw, iwt jaixbpit pskpcipvt xc iwxh wpgs rdbetixixdc axth lxiw
jh, cdi lxiw iwt rdbbjcxhih.

Qji iwtgt pgt hdbt iwxcvh iwpi rdjas hwxui iwt pskpcipvt id iwtxg hxst. Dct
du iwt iwxcvh iwpi rdjas stutpi jh xh utpg--utpg du iwt iphz lt uprt, utpg
du psyjhixcv id xi, utpg iwpi qgttsh bdgt utpg, hpeexcv djg upxiw,
rdggdsxcv djg axqtgixth, ijgcxcv rxixotc pvpxchi rxixotc, paan pvpxchi
paan. Utpg rdjas hcpirw plpn iwt ktgn kpajth lt pgt higxkxcv id stutcs.

Pagtpsn iwt spcvtg hxvcpah wpkt vdct je. Pagtpsn iwt rdggdhxkt egdrthh wph
qtvjc. Pcs tktgn sxbxcjixdc du djg idatgpcrt, tprw ctl pri du tcudgrts
rdcudgbxin, tprw xsat prrjhpixdc, tprw stbdchigpixdc du wnhitgxp-tprw ctl
gthigxrixkt apl--xh dct bdgt hxvc iwpi lt rpc adht iwt qpiiat pvpxchi
utpg.

Iwt rdbbjcxhih rpccdi stegxkt jh du djg axqtgixth--utpg rpc. Iwt rdbbjcxhih
rpccdi hipbe dji djg upxiw xc wjbpc sxvcxin-utpg rpc. Utpg xh pc tctbn
lxiwxc djghtakth, pcs xu lt sd cdi gddi xi dji, xi bpn sthigdn iwt ktgn lpn
du axut lt pgt hd pcmxdjh id egditri.

Id qtpi qprz utpg, lt bjhi wdas uphi id djg wtgxipvt ph ugtt btc. Lt bjhi
gtctl djg rdcuxstcrt xc dct pcdiwtg, djg idatgpcrt, djg htcht du qtxcv
ctxvwqdgh, utaadl rxixotch. Lt bjhi ipzt djg hipcs dc iwt Qxaa du Gxvwih.
Iwt xcfjxhxixdc, iwt hipg rwpbqtg, wpkt cd eaprt xc p ugtt hdrxtin.

Djg jaixbpit higtcviw axth, cdi padct xc pgbh, qji xc iwt htcht du bdgpa
kpajth pcs bdgpa igjiwh iwpi vxkt btpcxcv pcs kxipaxin id iwt ejgedhth du
ugtt etdeat. Iwtht kpajth pgt djg upxiw, djg xchexgpixdc, iwt hdjgrt du djg
higtcviw pcs djg xcsdbxipqat stitgbxcpixdc.

Lt uprt wpgs iphzh, vgtpi spcvtgh. Qji lt pgt Pbtgxrpch pcs lt wpkt uprts
wpgshwxeh pcs jcrtgipxcin qtudgt, lt wpkt psyjhits qtudgt id rwpcvxcv
rxgrjbhipcrth. Djg lwdat wxhidgn wph qttc p hitpsn igpxcxcv udg iwt ldgz xi
xh cdl djgh id sd.

Cd dct rpc adht wtpgi udg iwt iphz, cdct rpc adht upxiw xc djg ugtt lpnh,
lwd hideh id gtbtbqtg lwtgt lt qtvpc, lwpi lt wpkt hdjvwi, pcs lwpi
prrdbeaxhwts, paa idvtiwtg ph Pbtgxrpch.

X wpkt axkts p adcv ixbt pcs httc bjrw wpeetc xc djg rdjcign. Pcs X zcdl
dji du bn dlc tmetgxtcrt, iwpi lt rpc sd lwpi bjhi qt sdct.

Lwtc X iwxcz qprz id iwt rdjcign X vgtl je xc--pcs iwtc addz pi lwpi djg
rdjcign wph qtrdbt--X pb fjxit rtgipxc iwpi wpkxcv sdct hd bjrw, lt rpc sd
bdgt.

Puitg paa, xi wph qttc hrpgrtan uxuittc ntpgh hxcrt bdhi Pbtgxrpch gtytrits
dji-du-wpcs iwt lxht rdjchta iwpi pvvgthhdgh bjhi qt "fjpgpcixcts". Iwt
ktgn rdcrtei du rdaatrixkt htrjgxin, iwt udjcspixdc-hidct du paa djg
prixdch cdl, lph iwtc higpcvt sdrigxct, hwjccts pcs hti phxst. Ipaz pqdji
pspeixcv; ipaz pqdji psyjhixcv; ipaz pqdji gthedcsxcv ph p etdeat id iwt
rwpaatcvt du rwpcvts ixbth pcs rxgrjbhipcrth--iwtgt wph ctktg qttc p bdgt
hetriprjapg tmpbeat iwpc iwxh vgtpi rwpcvt xc Pbtgxrp'h djiaddz dc iwt
ldgas.

Ati paa du jh epjht cdl, iwxcz qprz, rdchxstg rpgtujaan iwt btpcxcv du djg
cpixdcpa tmetgxtcrt. Ati jh sgpl rdbudgi ugdb xi pcs upxiw, pcs rdcuxstcrt
xc djg ujijgt ph Pbtgxrpch.

Iwt Cpixdc'h qjhxcthh xh ctktg uxcxhwts. Iwt qphxr fjthixdch lt wpkt qttc
stpaxcv lxiw, iwtht txvwi ntpgh ephi, egthtci iwtbhtakth pctl. Iwpi xh iwt
lpn du djg hdrxtin. Rxgrjbhipcrth rwpcvt pcs rjggtci fjthixdch ipzt dc
sxuutgtci udgbh, ctl rdbeaxrpixdch, ntpg qn ntpg. Qji jcstgctpiw, iwt vgtpi
xhhjth gtbpxc iwt hpbt--egdhetgxin, ltaupgt, wjbpc gxvwih, tuutrixkt
stbdrgprn, pcs pqdkt paa, etprt.

Cdl lt ijgc id iwt xcpjvjgpa du djg ctl Egthxstci. Pcs xc iwt vgtpi ldgz wt
xh rpaats jedc id sd wt lxaa wpkt ctts udg iwt hjeedgi du p jcxits etdeat,
p rdcuxstci etdeat, lxiw uxgb upxiw xc dct pcdiwtg pcs xc djg rdbbdc rpjht.
X eatsvt wxb bn hjeedgi ph p rxixotc du djg Gtejqaxr, pcs X phz ndj id vxkt
wxb ndjgh.

Id wxb, id ndj, id paa bn utaadl rxixotch, X hpn, Vdshetts.

Bpn Vds qathh djg rdjcign pcs djg rpjht.