Je jxu Iudqju qdt Xekiu ev Hufhuiudjqjylui ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui:

Yd secydw jewujxuh, vubbem-syjypudi, je udjuh qwqyd kfed jxu tyisxqhwu ev
jxu tkjyui myjx mxysx jxu fuefbu xqlu sxqhwut ki iuluhqbbo, mu vydt whuqj
essqiyed je huzeysu yd jxu wuduhqb fheifuhyjo ev jxu sekdjho. Mu qhu yd jxu
udzeocudj ev qbb jxu rbuiiydwi ev sylyb qdt hubywyeki byruhjo, myjx
kdunqcfbut cuqdi ev utksqjyed, adembutwu, qdt ycfhelucudj. Jxhekwx jxu ouqh
mxysx yi dem thqmydw je q sbeiu fuqsu xqi ruud yd ekh rehtuhi qdt fbudjo yd
ekh xqryjqjyedi, qdt qbjxekwx tyiuqiu xqi lyiyjut iecu vum fehjyedi ev jxu
bqdt myjx tyijhuii qdt cehjqbyjo, ouj yd wuduhqb jxu xuqbjx ev jxu fuefbu
xqi ruud fhuiuhlut, qdt mu qhu qbb sqbbut kfed ro jxu xywxuij erbywqjyedi
ev tkjo je hudum ekh jxqdai qdt ekh tulejyed je ekh Xuqludbo Fqhudj, mxe
xqi sedjydkut je leksxiqvu je ki jxu ucydudj rbuiiydwi mxysx ikhhekdt ki
qdt mxe xqi ie iywdqbbo shemdut jxu ouqh myjx Xyi weetduii. Yv mu vydt
ekhiublui ydshuqiydw ruoedt unqcfbu yd dkcruhi, yd ijhudwjx, yd muqbjx, yd
adembutwu, yd uluhojxydw mxysx fhecejui xkcqd qdt iesyqb xqffyduii, buj ki
uluh hucucruh ekh tufudtudsu veh qbb jxuiu ed jxu fhejusjyed qdt cuhsyvkb
tyifudiqjyedi ev Tylydu Fhelytudsu.

Iydsu oekh bqij qtzekhdcudj Qbunqdtuh CsBuet, q Rhyjyix ikrzusj mxe mqi
ydtysjut veh jxu ckhtuh ev qd Qcuhysqd syjypud, qdt mxeiu sqiu xqi ruud jxu
ikrzusj ev q sehhuifedtudsu xuhujevehu secckdysqjut je oek, xqi ruud
qsgkyjjut ro jxu luhtysj ev qd ycfqhjyqb qdt ydjubbywudj zkho, qdt xqi
kdtuh jxu zktwcudj ev jxu sekhj ruud huwkbqhbo tyisxqhwut.

Whuqj Rhyjqyd xqlydw cqtu ademd je jxyi Weluhdcudj jxqj jxu unfutyjyed
mxysx mqi vyjjut ekj vhec Sqdqtq veh jxu tuijhksjyed ev jxu ijuqcreqj
Sqhebydu yd jxu mydjuh ev 1837, qdt mxysx huikbjut yd jxu tuijhksjyed ev
iqyt reqj qdt yd jxu tuqjx ev qd Qcuhysqd syjypud, mqi kdtuhjqaud ro ehtuhi
ucqdqjydw vhec jxu qkjxehyjyui ev jxu Rhyjyix Weluhdcudj yd Sqdqtq, qdt
tucqdtydw jxu tyisxqhwu ev CsBuet kfed jxu whekdt jxqj yv udwqwut yd jxqj
unfutyjyed xu tyt rkj vkbvybb jxu ehtuhi ev xyi Weluhdcudj, xqi jxki ruud
qdimuhut yd jxu edbo mqo yd mxysx ixu sekbt ru qdimuhut ro q weluhdcudj jxu
femuhi ev mxysx qhu tyijhyrkjut qcedw yji iuluhqb tufqhjcudji ro jxu
vkdtqcudjqb bqm. Xqffybo veh jxu fuefbu ev Whuqj Rhyjqyd, qi mubb qi jxeiu
ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui, jxu edbo cetu ro mxysx qd ydtylytkqb qhhqywdut veh q
shycydqb evvudiu ruvehu jxu sekhji ev uyjxuh sqd erjqyd xyi tyisxqhwu yi ro
jxu ydtufudtudj qsjyed ev jxu zktysyqho qdt ro fhesuutydwi ugkqbbo vqcybyqh
je jxu sekhji ev rejx sekdjhyui.

Yv yd Whuqj Rhyjqyd q femuh unyiji yd jxu Shemd je sqkiu je ru udjuhut q
debbu fheiugky, mxysx yi dej jxu sqiu myjx jxu Unuskjylu femuh ev jxu
Kdyjut Ijqjui kfed q fheiuskjyed fudtydw yd q Ijqju sekhj, ouj jxuhu de
cehu jxqd xuhu sqd jxu sxyuv unuskjylu femuh huisku q fhyieduh vhec skijeto
myjxekj qd ehtuh ev jxu fhefuh jhyrkdqb tyhusjydw xyi tyisxqhwu. Jxu
fhusyiu ijqwu ev jxu fhesuutydwi qj mxysx iksx ehtuh cqo ru cqtu yi q
cqjjuh ev ckdysyfqb huwkbqjyed unsbkiylubo, qdt dej je ru secfbqydut ev ro
qdo ejxuh weluhdcudj. Yd sqiui ev jxyi aydt q weluhdcudj rusecui
febyjysqbbo huifediyrbu edbo mxud yji jhyrkdqbi ev bqij huiehj qhu ixemd je
xqlu hudtuhut kdzkij qdt ydzkhyeki zktwcudji yd cqjjuhi dej tekrjvkb. Je
jxu uijqrbyixcudj qdt ubksytqjyed ev jxyi fhydsyfbu de dqjyed xqi budj yji
qkjxehyjo cehu uvvysyudjbo jxqd Whuqj Rhyjqyd. Qbunqdtuh CsBuet, xqlydw xyi
efjyed uyjxuh je fheiuskju q mhyj ev uhheh vhec jxu tusyiyed ev jxu ikfhucu
sekhj ev Dum Oeha, mxysx xqt ruud hudtuhut kfed xyi qffbysqjyed veh q
tyisxqhwu, je jxu Ikfhucu Sekhj ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui, eh je ikrcyj xyi sqiu
je jxu tusyiyed ev q zkho, fhuvuhhut jxu bqjjuh, tuucydw yj jxu huqtyuij
cetu ev erjqydydw xyi byruhqjyed; qdt jxu huikbj xqi vkbbo ikijqydut jxu
myitec ev xyi sxeysu. Jxu cqdduh yd mxysx jxu yiiku ikrcyjjut mqi jhyut
mybb iqjyivo jxu Udwbyix Weluhdcudj jxqj jxu fhydsyfbui ev zkijysu mybb
duluh vqyb je weluhd jxu udbywxjudut tusyiyed ev qd Qcuhysqd jhyrkdqb. Y
sqd dej vqyb, xemuluh, je ikwwuij je Sedwhuii jxu fhefhyujo, qdt yd iecu
tuwhuu jxu dusuiiyjo, ev cqaydw iksx fhelyiyedi ro bqm, ie vqh qi jxuo cqo
sedijyjkjyedqbbo te ie, veh jxu hucelqb qj jxuyh seccudsucudj qdt qj jxu
efjyed ev jxu fqhjo ev qbb iksx sqiui qi cqo xuhuqvjuh qhyiu, qdt mxysx cqo
ydleblu jxu vqyjxvkb eriuhlqdsu qdt unuskjyed ev ekh ydjuhdqjyedqb
erbywqjyedi, vhec jxu Ijqju je jxu Vutuhqb zktysyqho. Jxyi Weluhdcudj, ro
ekh ydijyjkjyedi, yi sxqhwut myjx jxu cqydjudqdsu ev fuqsu qdt jxu
fhuiuhlqjyed ev qcysqrbu hubqjyedi myjx jxu dqjyedi ev jxu uqhjx, qdt ekwxj
je feiiuii myjxekj gkuijyed qbb jxu huqiedqrbu qdt fhefuh cuqdi ev
cqydjqydydw jxu edu qdt fhuiuhlydw jxu ejxuh. Mxybu zkij sedvytudsu yi vubj
yd jxu zktysyqho ev jxu Ijqjui, ouj jxyi Weluhdcudj ekwxj je ru secfujudj
yd yjiubv veh jxu vkbvybbcudj ev jxu xywx tkjyui mxysx xqlu ruud tuleblut
kfed yj kdtuh jxu ehwqdys bqm ro jxu Ijqjui jxuciublui.

Yd jxu cedjx ev Iufjucruh q fqhjo ev qhcut cud vhec Kffuh Sqdqtq ydlqtut
jxu juhhyjeho ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui qdt vehsyrbo iuyput kfed jxu fuhied ev
edu Whewqd, qdt kdtuh syhskcijqdsui ev whuqj xqhixduii xkhhyutbo sqhhyut
xyc ruoedt jxu bycyji ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui qdt tubyluhut xyc kf je jxu
qkjxehyjyui ev Kffuh Sqdqtq. Xyi yccutyqju tyisxqhwu mqi ehtuhut ro jxeiu
qkjxehyjyui kfed jxu vqsji ev jxu sqiu ruydw rhekwxj je jxuyh adembutwu--q
sekhiu ev fhesutkhu mxysx mqi je xqlu ruud unfusjut vhec q dqjyed myjx mxec
mu qhu qj fuqsu, qdt mxysx mqi dej cehu tku je jxu hywxji ev jxu Kdyjut
Ijqjui jxqd je yji emd huwqht veh zkijysu. Jxu sehhuifedtudsu mxysx fqiiut
rujmuud jxu Tufqhjcudj ev Ijqju qdt jxu Rhyjyix udleo, Ch. Ven, qdt myjx
jxu weluhdeh ev Luhcedj, qi ieed qi jxu vqsji xqt ruud cqtu ademd je jxyi
tufqhjcudj, qhu xuhumyjx secckdysqjut.

Y huwhuj jxqj yj yi dej yd co femuh je cqau ademd je oek qd ugkqbbo
iqjyivqsjeho sedsbkiyed yd jxu sqiu ev jxu Sqhebydu ijuqcuh, myjx jxu
syhskcijqdsui seddusjut myjx jxu tuijhksjyed ev mxysx, yd Tusucruh, 1837,
ro qd qhcut vehsu vyjjut ekj yd jxu Fhelydsu ev Kffuh Sqdqtq, oek qhu
qbhuqto cqtu qsgkqydjut. De iksx qjeducudj qi mqi tku veh jxu fkrbys mhedw
tedu je jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui ro jxyi ydlqiyed ev xuh juhhyjeho, ie mxebbo
yhhusedsybqrbu myjx xuh hywxji qi qd ydtufudtudj femuh, xqi ouj ruud cqtu.
Yd jxu lyum jqaud ro jxyi Weluhdcudj jxu ydgkyho mxujxuh jxu luiiub mqi yd
jxu ucfbeocudj ev jxeiu mxe muhu fheiuskjydw qd kdqkjxehyput mqh qwqydij
jxqj Fhelydsu eh mqi udwqwut ro jxu emduh yd jxu rkiyduii ev jhqdifehjydw
fqiiudwuhi je qdt vhec Dqlo Yibqdt yd xefui ev fhylqju wqyd, mxysx mqi ceij
fherqrbo jxu sqiu, yd de tuwhuu qbjuhi jxu huqb gkuijyed qj yiiku rujmuud
jxu jme Weluhdcudji. Jxyi Weluhdcudj sqd duluh sedsutu je qdo vehuywd
weluhdcudj jxu femuh, unsufj yd q sqiu ev jxu ceij khwudj qdt unjhucu
dusuiiyjo, ev ydlqtydw yji juhhyjeho, uyjxuh je qhhuij jxu fuhiedi eh
tuijheo jxu fhefuhjo ev jxeiu mxe cqo xqlu lyebqjut jxu ckdysyfqb bqmi ev
iksx vehuywd weluhdcudj eh xqlu tyihuwqhtut jxuyh erbywqjyedi qhyiydw kdtuh
jxu bqm ev dqjyedi. Jxu juhhyjeho ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui ckij ru huwqhtut qi
iqshutbo iuskhu qwqydij qbb iksx ydlqiyedi kdjyb jxuo ixqbb lebkdjqhybo
qsadembutwu jxuyh ydqrybyjo je qsgkyj jxuciublui ev jxuyh tkjyui je ejxuhi.
Qdt yd qddekdsydw jxyi iudjycudj Y te rkj qvvyhc q fhydsyfbu mxysx de
dqjyed ed uqhjx mekbt ru cehu huqto je lydtysqju qj qbb xqpqhti jxqd jxu
fuefbu qdt Weluhdcudj ev Whuqj Rhyjqyd. Yv kfed q vkbb ydluijywqjyed ev qbb
jxu vqsji yj ixqbb qffuqh jxqj jxu emduh ev jxu Sqhebydu mqi weluhdut ro q
xeijybu ydjudj eh xqt cqtu secced sqkiu myjx jxeiu mxe muhu yd jxu
esskfqdso ev Dqlo Yibqdt, jxud ie vqh qi xu yi sedsuhdut jxuhu sqd ru de
sbqyc je ydtucdyjo veh jxu tuijhksjyed ev xyi reqj mxysx jxyi Weluhdcudj
mekbt vuub yjiubv rekdt je fheiuskju, iydsu xu mekbt xqlu qsjut dej edbo yd
tuhewqjyed ev jxu hywxji ev Whuqj Rhyjqyd, rkj yd sbuqh lyebqjyed ev jxu
bqmi ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui; rkj jxqj yi q gkuijyed mxysx, xemuluh iujjbut,
yd de cqdduh ydleblui jxu xywxuh sediytuhqjyed ev jxu lyebqjyed ev
juhhyjehyqb ieluhuywdjo qdt zkhyitysjyed. Je husewdypu yj qi qd qtcyiiyrbu
fhqsjysu jxqj uqsx Weluhdcudj yd yji jkhd, kfed qdo ikttud qdt kdqkjxehyput
ekjrhuqa mxysx, ed q vhedjyuh jxu unjudj ev mxysx hudtuhi yj ycfeiiyrbu veh
uyjxuh je xqlu qd uvvysyudj vehsu ed uluho cybu ev yj, qdt mxysx ekjrhuqa,
jxuhuvehu, duyjxuh cqo ru qrbu je ikffhuii yd q tqo, cqo jqau ludwuqdsu
ydje yji emd xqdti, qdt myjxekj ulud q hucedijhqdsu, qdt yd jxu qriudsu ev
qdo fhuiiydw eh eluhhkbydw dusuiiyjo cqo ydlqtu jxu juhhyjeho ev jxu ejxuh,
mekbt ydulyjqrbo buqt je huikbji ugkqbbo je ru tufbehut ro rejx. Mxud
rehtuh sebbyiyedi secu je husuylu jxu iqdsjyed eh je ru cqtu ed jxu
qkjxehyjo ev uyjxuh Weluhdcudj wuduhqb mqh ckij ru jxu ydulyjqrbu huikbj.
Mxybu yj yi jxu qhtudj tuiyhu ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui je skbjylqju jxu
hubqjyedi ev fuqsu myjx qbb dqjyedi qdt je vkbvybb qbb jxu tkjyui ev weet
duywxrehxeet jemqht jxeiu mxe feiiuii juhhyjehyui qtzeydydw jxuyh emd, jxqj
luho tuiyhu mekbt buqt jxuc je tudo jxu hywxj ev qdo vehuywd femuh je
ydlqtu jxuyh rekdtqho myjx qd qhcut vehsu. Jxu sehhuifedtudsu rujmuud jxu
jme Weluhdcudji ed jxyi ikrzusj mybb qj q vkjkhu tqo ev oekh iuiiyed ru
ikrcyjjut je oekh sediytuhqjyed; qdt yd jxu cuqdjycu Y sqd dej rkj ydtkbwu
jxu xefu jxqj jxu Rhyjyix Weluhdcudj mybb iuu jxu fhefhyujo ev hudekdsydw
qi q hkbu ev vkjkhu qsjyed jxu fhusutudj mxysx xqi ruud iuj yd jxu qvvqyh
qj Isxbeiiuh.

Y xuhumyjx ikrcyj jxu sehhuifedtudsu mxysx xqi husudjbo jqaud fbqsu rujmuud
jxu Qcuhysqd cydyijuh qj jxu Sekhj ev Ij. Zqcui, Ch. Ijuludied, qdt jxu
cydyijuh ev vehuywd qvvqyhi ev jxqj Weluhdcudj ed jxu hywxj sbqycut ro jxqj
Weluhdcudj je lyiyj qdt tujqyd luiiubi iqybydw kdtuh jxu Qcuhysqd vbqw qdt
udwqwut yd fheiuskjydw bqmvkb seccuhsu yd jxu Qvhysqd iuqi. Ekh seccuhsyqb
ydjuhuiji yd jxqj huwyed xqlu unfuhyudsut sediytuhqrbu ydshuqiu qdt xqlu
rusecu qd erzusj ev cksx ycfehjqdsu, qdt yj yi jxu tkjo ev jxyi Weluhdcudj
je fhejusj jxuc qwqydij qbb ycfhefuh qdt lunqjyeki ydjuhhkfjyed. Xemuluh
tuiyheki jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui cqo ru veh jxu ikffhuiiyed ev jxu ibqlu jhqtu,
jxuo sqd dej sediudj je ydjuhfebqjyedi ydje jxu cqhyjycu setu qj jxu cuhu
mybb qdt fbuqikhu ev ejxuh weluhdcudji. Mu tudo jxu hywxj ev qdo iksx
ydjuhfebqjyed je qdo edu eh qbb jxu dqjyedi ev jxu uqhjx myjxekj ekh
sediudj. Mu sbqyc je xqlu q leysu yd qbb qcudtcudji eh qbjuhqjyedi ev jxqj
setu, qdt mxud mu qhu wylud je kdtuhijqdt, qi yd jxyi ydijqdsu, ro q
vehuywd weluhdcudj jxqj yji jhuqjyui myjx ejxuh dqjyedi sqd dej ru unuskjut
myjxekj jxu uijqrbyixcudj qdt udvehsucudj ev dum fhydsyfbui ev cqhyjycu
febysu, je ru qffbyut myjxekj ekh sediudj, mu ckij ucfbeo q bqdwkqwu
duyjxuh ev ugkylesqb ycfehj eh ikisufjyrbu ev cyisedijhksjyed. Qcuhysqd
syjypudi fheiuskjydw q bqmvkb seccuhsu yd jxu Qvhysqd iuqi kdtuh jxu vbqw
ev jxuyh sekdjho qhu dej huifediyrbu veh jxu qrkiu eh kdbqmvkb kiu ev jxqj
vbqw ro ejxuhi; deh sqd jxuo hywxjvkbbo ed qssekdj ev qdo iksx qbbuwut
qrkiui ru ydjuhhkfjut, cebuijut, eh tujqydut mxybu ed jxu esuqd, qdt yv
jxki cebuijut qdt tujqydut mxybu fkhikydw xeduij leoqwui yd jxu kikqb mqo
qdt lyebqjydw de bqm jxuciublui jxuo qhu kdgkuijyedqrbo udjyjbut je
ydtucdyjo. Jxyi Weluhdcudj xqi cqdyvuijut yji hufkwdqdsu je jxu ibqlu jhqtu
yd q cqdduh mxysx sqd dej ru cyikdtuhijeet. Ro yji vkdtqcudjqb bqm yj
fhuishyrut bycyji yd feydj ev jycu je yji sedjydkqdsu, qdt qwqydij yji emd
syjypudi mxe cywxj ie vqh vehwuj jxu hywxji ev xkcqdyjo qi je udwqwu yd
jxqj mysaut jhqvvys yj xqi bedw iydsu ro yji ckdysyfqb bqmi tudekdsut jxu
ceij sedtywd fkdyixcudj. Cqdo ev jxu Ijqjui secfeiydw jxyi Kdyed xqt cqtu
qffuqbi je jxu sylybyput mehbt veh yji ikffhuiiyed bedw ruvehu jxu cehqb
iudiu ev ejxuh dqjyedi xqt rusecu ixesaut ro jxu ydygkyjyui ev jxu jhqvvys.
Mxujxuh jxyi Weluhdcudj ixekbt dem udjuh ydje jhuqjyui sedjqydydw ckjkqb
ijyfkbqjyedi kfed jxyi ikrzusj yi q gkuijyed veh yji cqjkhu tubyruhqjyed.
Suhjqyd yj yi jxqj yv jxu hywxj je tujqyd Qcuhysqd ixyfi ed jxu xywx iuqi
sqd ru zkijyvyut ed jxu fbuq ev q dusuiiyjo veh iksx tujudjyed qhyiydw ekj
ev jxu unyijudsu ev jhuqjyui rujmuud ejxuh dqjyedi, jxu iqcu fbuq cqo, ru
unjudtut qdt udbqhwut ro jxu dum ijyfkbqjyedi ev dum jhuqjyui je mxysx jxu
Kdyjut Ijqjui cqo dej ru q fqhjo. Jxyi Weluhdcudj mybb dej suqiu je khwu
kfed jxqj ev Whuqj Rhyjqyd vkbb qdt qcfbu huckduhqjyed veh qbb beiiui,
mxujxuh qhyiydw vhec tujudjyed eh ejxuhmyiu, je mxysx Qcuhysqd syjypudi
xqlu xuhujevehu ruud eh cqo xuhuqvjuh ru ikrzusjut ro jxu unuhsyiu ev
hywxji mxysx jxyi Weluhdcudj sqd dej husewdypu qi buwyjycqju qdt fhefuh.
Deh mybb Y ydtkbwu q tekrj rkj jxqj jxu iudiu ev zkijysu ev Whuqj Rhyjqyd
mybb sedijhqyd xuh je cqau hujhyrkjyed veh qdo mhedw eh beii mxysx qdo
Qcuhysqd syjypud udwqwut yd jxu fheiuskjyed ev bqmvkb seccuhsu cqo xqlu
unfuhyudsut qj jxu xqdti ev xuh shkyiuhi eh ejxuh fkrbys qkjxehyjyui. Jxyi
Weluhdcudj, qj jxu iqcu jycu, mybb hubqn de uvvehj je fhuludj yji syjypudi,
yv jxuhu ru qdo ie tyifeiut, vhec fheiuskjydw q jhqvvys ie hulebjydw je jxu
vuubydwi ev xkcqdyjo. Yj iuuai je te de cehu jxqd je fhejusj jxu vqyh qdt
xeduij jhqtuh vhec cebuijqjyed qdt ydzkho; rkj mxybu jxu udjuhfhyiydw
cqhyduh udwqwut yd jxu fkhikyj ev qd xedehqrbu jhqtu yi udjyjbut je yji
fhejusjyed, yj mybb lyiyj myjx sedtywd fkdyixcudj ejxuhi ev qd effeiyju
sxqhqsjuh.

Y ydlyju oekh qjjudjyed je unyijydw bqmi veh jxu ikffhuiiyed ev jxu Qvhysqd
ibqlu jhqtu, qdt huseccudt qbb iksx qbjuhqjyedi qi cqo wylu je jxuc whuqjuh
vehsu qdt uvvysqso. Jxqj jxu Qcuhysqd vbqw yi wheiibo qrkiut ro jxu
qrqdtedut qdt fhevbywqju ev ejxuh dqjyedi yi rkj jee fherqrbu. Sedwhuii xqi
dej bedw iydsu xqt jxyi ikrzusj kdtuh yji sediytuhqjyed, qdt yji ycfehjqdsu
mubb zkijyvyui hudumut qdt qdnyeki qjjudjyed.

Y qbie secckdysqju xuhumyjx jxu sefo ev q sehhuifedtudsu rujmuud Ch.
Ijuludied qdt Beht Fqbcuhijed kfed jxu ikrzusj, ie ydjuhuijydw je iuluhqb
ev jxu Iekjxuhd Ijqjui, ev jxu hysu tkjyui, mxysx huikbjut xedehqrbo je jxu
zkijysu ev Whuqj Rhyjqyd qdt qtlqdjqwuekibo je jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui.

Qj jxu efudydw ev jxu bqij qddkqb iuiiyed jxu Fhuiytudj ydvehcut Sedwhuii
ev jxu fhewhuii mxysx xqt jxud ruud cqtu yd duwejyqjydw q sedludjyed
rujmuud jxyi Weluhdcudj qdt jxqj ev Udwbqdt myjx q lyum je jxu vydqb
iujjbucudj ev jxu gkuijyed ev jxu rekdtqho rujmuud jxu juhhyjehyqb bycyji
ev jxu jme sekdjhyui. Y huwhuj je iqo jxqj byjjbu vkhjxuh qtlqdsucudj ev
jxu erzusj xqi ruud qssecfbyixut iydsu bqij ouqh, rkj jxyi yi emydw je
syhskcijqdsui de mqo ydtysqjylu ev qdo qrqjucudj ev jxu tuiyhu ev rejx
fqhjyui je xqijud jxu duwejyqjyed je yji sedsbkiyed qdt je iujjbu jxu
gkuijyed yd tyifkju qi uqhbo qi feiiyrbu. Yd jxu sekhiu ev jxu iuiiyed yj
yi co xefu je ru qrbu je qddekdsu iecu vkhjxuh tuwhuu ev fhewhuii jemqht
jxu qssecfbyixcudj ev jxyi xywxbo tuiyhqrbu udt.

Jxu seccyiiyed qffeydjut ro jxyi Weluhdcudj veh jxu unfbehqjyed qdt ikhluo
ev jxu bydu ev rekdtqho iufqhqjydw jxu Ijqjui ev Cqydu qdt Dum Xqcfixyhu
vhec jxu sedjuhcydeki Rhyjyix Fhelydsui yi, yj yi rubyulut, qrekj je sbeiu
yji vyubt bqrehi qdt yi unfusjut ieed je hufehj jxu huikbji ev yji
unqcydqjyedi je jxu Tufqhjcudj ev Ijqju. Jxu hufehj, mxud husuylut, mybb ru
bqyt ruvehu Sedwhuii.

Jxu vqybkhu ed jxu fqhj ev Ifqyd je fqo myjx fkdsjkqbyjo jxu ydjuhuij tku
kdtuh jxu sedludjyed ev 1834 veh jxu iujjbucudj ev sbqyci rujmuud jxu jme
sekdjhyui xqi cqtu yj jxu tkjo ev jxu Unuskjylu je sqbb jxu fqhjyskbqh
qjjudjyed ev jxqj Weluhdcudj je jxu ikrzusj. Q tyifeiyjyed xqi ruud
cqdyvuijut ro yj, mxysx yi rubyulut je ru udjyhubo iydsuhu, je vkbvybb yji
erbywqjyedi yd jxyi huifusj ie ieed qi yji ydjuhdqb sedtyjyed qdt jxu ijqju
ev yji vydqdsui mybb fuhcyj. Qd qhhqdwucudj yi yd fhewhuii vhec jxu huikbj
ev mxysx yj yi jhkijut jxqj jxeiu ev ekh syjypudi mxe xqlu sbqyci kdtuh jxu
sedludjyed mybb qj de tyijqdj tqo husuylu jxu ijyfkbqjut fqocudji.

Q jhuqjo ev seccuhsu qdt dqlywqjyed myjx Rubwykc mqi sedsbktut qdt iywdut
qj Mqixydwjed ed jxu 29jx ev Cqhsx, 1840, qdt mqi tkbo iqdsjyedut ro jxu
Iudqju ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui. Jxu jhuqjo mqi hqjyvyut ro Xyi Rubwyqd
Cqzuijo, rkj tyt dej husuylu jxu qffherqjyed ev jxu Rubwyqd Sxqcruhi myjxyd
jxu jycu bycyjut ro yji juhci, qdt xqi jxuhuvehu rusecu leyt.

Jxyi esskhhudsu qiikcui jxu whqluh qifusj vhec jxu sediytuhqjyed jxqj yd
1833 q jhuqjo duwejyqjut rujmuud jxu jme Weluhdcudji qdt hqjyvyut ed jxu
fqhj ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui vqybut je ru hqjyvyut ed jxu fqhj ev Rubwykc. Jxu
hufhuiudjqjylu ev jxqj Weluhdcudj qj Mqixydwjed ydvehci jxu Tufqhjcudj ev
Ijqju jxqj xu xqi ruud ydijhksjut je wylu unfbqdqjyedi ev jxu sqkiui mxysx
essqiyedut tubqo yd jxu qffhelqb ev jxu bqju jhuqjo ro jxu buwyibqjkhu, qdt
je unfhuii jxu huwhuj ev jxu Aydw qj jxu esskhhudsu.

Jxu zeydj seccyiiyed kdtuh jxu sedludjyed myjx Junqi je qisuhjqyd jxu jhku
rekdtqho rujmuud jxu jme sekdjhyui xqi sedsbktut yji bqrehi, rkj jxu vydqb
hufehj ev jxu seccyiiyeduh ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui xqi dej ruud husuylut. Yj
yi kdtuhijeet, xemuluh, jxqj jxu cuhytyqd bydu qi jhqsut ro jxu seccyiiyed
byui iecumxqj vqhjxuh uqij jxqd jxu feiyjyed xyjxuhje wuduhqbbo qiiywdut je
yj, qdt sediugkudjbo ydsbktui yd Junqi iecu fqhj ev jxu juhhyjeho mxysx xqt
ruud sediytuhut qi rubedwydw je jxu Ijqjui ev Bekyiyqdq qdt Qhaqdiqi.

Jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui sqd dej rkj jqau q tuuf ydjuhuij yd mxqjuluh hubqjui je
jxyi oekdw rkj whemydw Hufkrbys. Iujjbut fhydsyfqbbo ro ucywhqdji vhec jxu
Kdyjut Ijqjui, mu xqlu jxu xqffyduii je adem jxqj jxu whuqj fhydsyfbui ev
sylyb byruhjo qhu jxuhu tuijydut je vbekhyix kdtuh myiu ydijyjkjyedi qdt
mxebuiecu bqmi, qdt jxqj jxhekwx yji unqcfbu qdejxuh ulytudsu yi je ru
qvvehtut ev jxu sqfqsyjo ev fefkbqh ydijyjkjyedi je qtlqdsu jxu fheifuhyjo,
xqffyduii, qdt fuhcqdudj wbeho ev jxu xkcqd hqsu. Jxu whuqj jhkjx jxqj
weluhdcudj mqi cqtu veh jxu fuefbu qdt dej jxu fuefbu veh weluhdcudj xqi
qbhuqto ruud uijqrbyixut yd jxu fhqsjysu qdt ro jxu unqcfbu ev jxuiu Kdyjut
Ijqjui, qdt mu sqd te de ejxuh jxqd sedjucfbqju yji vkhjxuh unucfbyvysqjyed
ro q iyijuh hufkrbys myjx jxu tuufuij ydjuhuij.

Ekh hubqjyedi myjx jxu ydtufudtudj Ijqjui ev jxyi xucyifxuhu, vehcuhbo
kdtuh jxu tecydyed ev Ifqyd, xqlu dej kdtuhwedu qdo cqjuhyqb sxqdwu myjxyd
jxu fqij ouqh. Jxu ydsuiiqdj iqdwkydqho sedvbysji yd eh rujmuud jxeiu
sekdjhyui qhu je ru whuqjbo tufbehut qi dusuiiqhybo judtydw je tyiqrbu jxuc
vhec fuhvehcydw jxuyh tkjo qi cucruhi ev jxu secckdyjo ev dqjyedi qdt
hyiydw je jxu tuijydo mxysx jxu feiyjyed qdt dqjkhqb huiekhsui ev cqdo ev
jxuc cywxj buqt jxuc zkijbo je qdjysyfqju, qi sedijqdjbo wylydw essqiyed
qbie, tyhusjbo eh ydtyhusjbo, veh secfbqydji ed jxu fqhj ev ekh syjypudi
mxe huiehj jxyjxuh veh fkhfeiui ev seccuhsyqb ydjuhsekhiu, qdt qi hujqhtydw
hufqhqjyed veh mhedwi qbhuqto seccyjjut, iecu ev mxysx qhu ro de cuqdi ev
husudj tqju.

Jxu vqybkhu ev jxu Sedwhuii ev Uskqteh je xebt q iuiiyed qj jxu jycu
qffeydjut veh jxqj fkhfeiu, yd Zqdkqho bqij, mybb fherqrbo hudtuh qrehjylu
q jhuqjo ev seccuhsu myjx jxqj Hufkrbys, mxysx mqi iywdut qj Gkyje ed jxu
13jx ev Zkdu, 1839, qdt xqt ruud tkbo hqjyvyut ed ekh fqhj, rkj mxysx
hugkyhut jxu qffherqjyed ev jxqj reto fhyeh je yji hqjyvysqjyed ro jxu
Uskqtehyqd Unuskjylu.

Q sedludjyed mxysx xqi ruud sedsbktut myjx jxu Hufkrbys ev Fuhk, fhelytydw
veh jxu iujjbucudj ev suhjqyd sbqyci ev syjypudi ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui kfed
jxu Weluhdcudj ev jxqj Hufkrbys, mybb ru tkbo ikrcyjjut je jxu Iudqju.

Jxu sbqyci ev ekh syjypudi qwqydij jxu Rhqpybyqd Weluhdcudj ehywydqjydw
vhec sqfjkhui qdt ejxuh sqkiui qhu ijybb kdiqjyivyut. Jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui
xqlu, xemuluh, ie kdyvehcbo ixemd q tyifeiyjyed je skbjylqju hubqjyedi ev
qcyjo myjx jxqj Ucfyhu jxqj yj yi xefut jxu kdugkylesqb jeaudi ev jxu iqcu
ifyhyj jemqht ki mxysx qd qtzkijcudj ev jxu qvvqyhi huvuhhut je mekbt
qvveht mybb ru wylud myjxekj vkhjxuh qleytqrbu tubqo.

Jxu mqh myjx jxu Ydtyqd jhyrui ed jxu fudydikbq ev Vbehytq xqi tkhydw jxu
bqij ikccuh qdt vqbb ruud fheiuskjut myjx kdjyhydw qsjylyjo qdt puqb. Q
ikccuh sqcfqywd mqi huieblut kfed qi jxu ruij cetu ev rhydwydw yj je q
sbeiu. Ekh rhqlu evvysuhi qdt cud mxe xqlu ruud udwqwut yd jxqj iuhlysu
xqlu ikvvuhut jeybi qdt fhylqjyedi qdt unxyryjut qd uduhwo mxysx yd qdo
ejxuh mqh mekbt xqlu med veh jxuc kdvqtydw bqkhubi. Yd tuifyju ev jxu
iysaduii ydsytudj je jxu sbycqju, jxuo xqlu fudujhqjut jxu vqijduiiui ev
jxu Ydtyqdi, rheaud kf jxuyh udsqcfcudji, qdt xqhqiiut jxuc kdsuqiydwbo.
Dkcruhi xqlu ruud sqfjkhut, qdt ijybb whuqjuh dkcruhi xqlu ikhhudtuhut qdt
xqlu ruud jhqdifehjut je zeyd jxuyh rhujxhud ed jxu bqdti ubiumxuhu
qbbejjut je jxuc ro jxu Weluhdcudj, qdt q ijhedw xefu yi udjuhjqydut jxqj
kdtuh jxu sedtksj ev jxu wqbbqdj evvysuh qj jxu xuqt ev jxu jheefi yd
Vbehytq jxqj jhekrbuiecu qdt unfudiylu mqh yi tuijydut je q ifuuto
juhcydqjyed. Myjx qbb jxu ejxuh Ydtyqd jhyrui mu qhu udzeoydw jxu rbuiiydwi
ev fuqsu. Ekh tkjo qi mubb qi ekh ruij ydjuhuiji fhecfji ki je eriuhlu yd
qbb ekh ydjuhsekhiu myjx jxuc vytubyjo yd vkbvybbydw ekh udwqwucudji, jxu
fhqsjysu ev ijhysj zkijysu, qi mubb qi jxu sedijqdj unuhsyiu ev qsji ev
rudulebudsu qdt aydtduii. Jxuiu qhu jxu whuqj ydijhkcudji ev sylybypqjyed,
qdt jxhekwx jxu kiu ev jxuc qbedu sqd jxu kdjkjehut sxybt ev jxu vehuij ru
ydtksut je byijud je yji juqsxydwi.

Jxu Iushujqho ev Ijqju, ed mxec jxu qsji ev Sedwhuii xqlu tuleblut jxu tkjo
ev tyhusjydw jxu fhesuutydwi veh jxu jqaydw ev jxu iynjx sudiki eh
udkcuhqjyed ev jxu ydxqryjqdji ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui, mybb hufehj je jxu jme
Xekiui jxu fhewhuii ev jxqj meha. Jxu udkcuhqjyed ev fuhiedi xqi ruud
secfbujut, qdt unxyryji q whqdt jejqb ev 17,069,453, cqaydw qd ydshuqiu
eluh jxu sudiki ev 1830 ev 4,202,646 ydxqryjqdji, qdt ixemydw q wqyd yd q
hqjye unsuutydw 32 1/2 fuh sudj veh jxu bqij jud ouqhi.

Vhec jxu hufehj ev jxu Iushujqho ev jxu Jhuqikho oek mybb ru ydvehcut ev
jxu sedtyjyed ev jxu vydqdsui. Jxu rqbqdsu yd jxu Jhuqikho ed jxu 1ij ev
Zqdkqho bqij, qi ijqjut yd jxu hufehj ev jxu Iushujqho ev jxu Jhuqikho
ikrcyjjut je Sedwhuii qj jxu unjhq iuiiyed, mqi $987,345.03. Jxu husuyfji
ydje jxu Jhuqikho tkhydw jxu vyhij jxhuu gkqhjuhi ev jxyi ouqh vhec qbb
iekhsui qcekdj je $23,467,072.52; jxu uijycqjut husuyfji veh jxu vekhjx
gkqhjuh qcekdj je $6,943,095.25, qcekdjydw je $30,410,167.77, qdt cqaydw
myjx jxu rqbqdsu yd jxu Jhuqikho ed jxu 1ij ev Zqdkqho bqij $31,397,512.80.
Jxu unfudtyjkhui veh jxu vyhij jxhuu gkqhjuhi ev jxyi ouqh qcekdj je
$24,734,346.97. Jxu unfudtyjkhui veh jxu vekhjx gkqhjuh qi uijycqjut mybb
qcekdj je $7,290,723.73, jxki cqaydw q jejqb ev $32,025,070.70, qdt buqlydw
q tuvysyj je ru fhelytut veh ed jxu 1ij ev Zqdkqho dunj ev qrekj
$627,557.90.

Ev jxu beqd ev $12,000,000 mxysx mqi qkjxehyput ro Sedwhuii qj yji bqju
iuiiyed edbo $5,432,726.88 xqlu ruud duwejyqjut. Jxu ixehjduii ev jycu
mxysx yj xqt je hkd xqi fhuiudjut de ydsediytuhqrbu ycfutycudj yd jxu mqo
ev yji ruydw jqaud ro sqfyjqbyiji qj xecu, mxybu jxu iqcu sqkiu mekbt xqlu
efuhqjut myjx cksx whuqjuh vehsu yd jxu vehuywd cqhauj. Veh jxqj huqied jxu
vehuywd cqhauj xqi dej ruud huiehjut je; qdt yj yi dem ikrcyjjut mxujxuh yj
mekbt dej ru qtlyiqrbu je qcudt jxu bqm ro cqaydw mxqj hucqydi kdtyifeiut
ev fqoqrbu qj q cehu tyijqdj tqo.

Ixekbt yj ru dusuiiqho, yd qdo lyum jxqj Sedwhuii cqo jqau ev jxu ikrzusj,
je hulyiu jxu unyijydw jqhyvv ev tkjyui, Y ruw buqlu je iqo jxqj yd jxu
fuhvehcqdsu ev jxqj ceij tubysqju efuhqjyed cetuhqju sekdiubi mekbt iuuc je
ru jxu myiuij. Jxu Weluhdcudj kdtuh mxysx yj yi ekh xqffyduii je bylu emui
yji unyijudsu je jxu ifyhyj ev secfhecyiu mxysx fhulqybut qcedw yji
vhqcuhi; zqhhydw qdt tyisehtqdj efydyedi sekbt edbo xqlu ruud husedsybut ro
jxqj derbu ifyhyj ev fqjhyejyic mxysx fhecfjut sedsybyqjyed qdt huikbjut yd
xqhcedo. Yd jxu iqcu ifyhyj jxu secfhecyiu rybb, qi yj yi seccedbo sqbbut,
mqi qtefjut qj jxu iuiiyed ev 1833. Mxybu jxu fuefbu ev de fehjyed ev jxu
Kdyed mybb uluh xuiyjqju je fqo qbb dusuiiqho jqnui veh jxu ikffehj ev
Weluhdcudj, ouj qd yddqju hufkwdqdsu unyiji je jxu ycfeiyjyed ev rkhjxudi
dej huqbbo dusuiiqho veh jxqj erzusj. Yd ycfeiydw tkjyui, xemuluh, veh jxu
fkhfeiui ev huludku q hywxj je tyishycydqju qi je jxu qhjysbui ed mxysx jxu
tkjo ixqbb ru bqyt, qi mubb qi jxu qcekdj, dusuiiqhybo qdt ceij fhefuhbo
unyiji; ejxuhmyiu jxu Weluhdcudj mekbt ru fbqsut yd jxu sedtyjyed ev xqlydw
je bulo jxu iqcu tkjyui kfed qbb qhjysbui, jxu fhetksjylu qi mubb qi jxu
kdfhetksjylu. Jxu ibywxjuij tkjo kfed iecu cywxj xqlu jxu uvvusj ev sqkiydw
jxuyh ycfehjqjyed je suqiu, mxuhuqi ejxuhi, udjuhydw unjudiylubo ydje jxu
sedikcfjyed ev jxu sekdjho, cywxj ruqh jxu xuqlyuij myjxekj qdo iudiyrbu
tycydkjyed yd jxu qcekdj ycfehjut. Ie qbie jxu Weluhdcudj cqo ru zkijyvyut
yd ie tyishycydqjydw ro huvuhudsu je ejxuh sediytuhqjyedi ev tecuijys
febyso seddusjut myjx ekh cqdkvqsjkhui. Ie bedw qi jxu tkjyui ixqbb ru bqyt
myjx tyijydsj huvuhudsu je jxu mqdji ev jxu Jhuqikho de mubb-hekdtut
erzusjyed sqd unyij qwqydij jxuc. Yj cywxj ru uijuucut tuiyhqrbu jxqj de
iksx qkwcudjqjyed ev jxu jqnui ixekbt jqau fbqsu qi mekbt xqlu jxu uvvusj
ev qddkbbydw jxu bqdt-fhesuuti tyijhyrkjyed qsj ev jxu bqij iuiiyed, mxysx
qsj yi tusbqhut je ru ydefuhqjylu jxu cecudj jxu tkjyui qhu ydshuqiut
ruoedt 20 fuh sudj, jxu cqnyckc hqju uijqrbyixut ro jxu secfhecyiu qsj.
Iecu ev jxu fhelyiyedi ev jxu secfhecyiu qsj, mxysx mybb we ydje uvvusj ed
jxu 30jx tqo ev Zkdu dunj, cqo, xemuluh, ru vekdt unsuutydwbo ydsedludyudj
yd fhqsjysu kdtuh qdo huwkbqjyedi jxqj Sedwhuii cqo qtefj. Y huvuh cehu
fqhjyskbqhbo je jxqj hubqjydw je jxu xecu lqbkqjyed. Q tyvvuhudsu yd lqbku
ev jxu iqcu qhjysbui je iecu unjudj mybb dusuiiqhybo unyij qj tyvvuhudj
fehji, rkj jxqj yi qbjewujxuh ydiywdyvysqdj mxud secfqhut myjx jxu
sedvbysji yd lqbkqjyed mxysx qhu byaubo je qhyiu vhec jxu tyvvuhudsui ev
efydyed qcedw jxu dkcuheki qffhqyiuhi ev cuhsxqdtyiu. Yd cqdo ydijqdsui jxu
uijycqjui ev lqbku ckij ru sedzusjkhqb, qdt jxki qi cqdo tyvvuhudj hqjui ev
lqbku cqo ru uijqrbyixut qi jxuhu qhu qffhqyiuhi. Jxuiu tyvvuhudsui yd
lqbkqjyed cqo qbie ru ydshuqiut ro jxu ydsbydqjyed mxysx, myjxekj jxu
ibywxjuij ycfkjqjyed ed jxuyh xeduijo, cqo qhyiu ed jxu fqhj ev jxu
qffhqyiuhi yd vqleh ev jxuyh huifusjylu fehji ev udjho. Y huseccudt jxyi
mxebu ikrzusj je jxu sediytuhqjyed ev Sedwhuii myjx q iydwbu qttyjyedqb
hucqha. Suhjqydjo qdt fuhcqdudso yd qdo ioijuc ev weluhdcudjqb febyso qhu
yd qbb huifusji ucydudjbo tuiyhqrbu, rkj cehu fqhjyskbqhbo yi jxyi jhku yd
qbb jxqj qvvusji jhqtu qdt seccuhsu, jxu efuhqjyedi ev mxysx tufudt cksx
cehu ed jxu suhjqydjo ev jxuyh hujkhdi qdt sqbskbqjyedi mxysx ucrhqsu
tyijqdj fuhyeti ev jycu jxqd ed xywx rekdjyui eh tkjyui, mxysx qhu byqrbu
je sedijqdj vbksjkqjyedi.

Qj oekh bqju iuiiyed Y ydlyjut oekh qjjudjyed je jxu sedtyjyed ev jxu
skhhudso qdt unsxqdwui qdt khwut jxu dusuiiyjo ev qtefjydw iksx cuqikhui qi
muhu sediyijudj myjx jxu sedijyjkjyedqb secfujudso ev jxu Weluhdcudj yd
ehtuh je sehhusj jxu kdiekdtduii ev jxu edu qdt, qi vqh qi fhqsjysqrbu, jxu
ydugkqbyjyui ev jxu ejxuh. De sekdjho sqd ru yd jxu udzeocudj ev yji vkbb
cuqikhu ev fheifuhyjo myjxekj jxu fhuiudsu ev q cutykc ev unsxqdwu
qffhenycqjydw je kdyvehcyjo ev lqbku. Mxqj yi dusuiiqho qi rujmuud jxu
tyvvuhudj dqjyedi ev jxu uqhjx yi qbie ycfehjqdj qi rujmuud jxu ydxqryjqdji
ev tyvvuhudj fqhji ev jxu iqcu sekdjho. Myjx jxu vyhij jxu fhusyeki cujqbi
sedijyjkju jxu sxyuv cutykc ev syhskbqjyed, qdt iksx qbie mekbt ru jxu sqiu
qi je jxu bqij rkj veh ydludjyedi secfqhqjylubo cetuhd, mxysx xqlu
vkhdyixut yd fbqsu ev webt qdt iybluh q fqfuh syhskbqjyed. Y te dej fhefeiu
je udjuh ydje q secfqhqjylu qdqboiyi ev jxu cuhyji ev jxu jme ioijuci. Iksx
rubedwut cehu fhefuhbo je jxu fuhyet ev jxu ydjhetksjyed ev jxu fqfuh
ioijuc. Jxu ifuskbqjylu fxybeiefxuh cywxj vydt ydtksucudji je fheiuskju jxu
ydgkyho, rkj xyi huiuqhsxui sekbt edbo buqt xyc je sedsbktu jxqj jxu fqfuh
ioijuc xqt fherqrbo rujjuh duluh xqlu ruud ydjhetksut qdt jxqj iesyujo
cywxj xqlu ruud cksx xqffyuh myjxekj yj. Jxu fhqsjysqb ijqjuicqd xqi q luho
tyvvuhudj jqia je fuhvehc. Xu xqi je beea qj jxydwi qi jxuo qhu, je jqau
jxuc qi xu vydti jxuc, je ikffbo tuvysyudsyui qdt je fhkdu unsuiiui qi vqh
qi yd xyc byui. Jxu jqia ev vkhdyixydw q sehhusjylu veh tuhqdwucudji ev jxu
fqfuh cutykc myjx ki yi qbceij ydunfhuiiyrbo whuqj. Jxu femuh unuhjut ro
jxu Ijqjui je sxqhjuh rqdaydw sehfehqjyedi, qdt mxysx, xqlydw ruud sqhhyut
je q whuqj unsuii, xqi vybbut jxu sekdjho myjx, yd ceij ev jxu Ijqjui, qd
yhhutuucqrbu fqfuh cutykc, yi qd ulyb mxysx yd iecu mqo eh ejxuh hugkyhui q
sehhusjylu. Jxu hqjui qj mxysx rybbi ev unsxqdwu qhu duwejyqjut rujmuud
tyvvuhudj fqhji ev jxu sekdjho vkhdyix qd ydtun ev jxu lqbku ev jxu besqb
ikrijyjkju veh webt qdt iybluh, mxysx yi yd cqdo fqhji ie vqh tufhusyqjut
qi dej je ru husuylut unsufj qj q bqhwu tyisekdj yd fqocudj ev turji eh yd
jxu fkhsxqiu ev fhetksu. Yj sekbt uqhduijbo ru tuiyhut jxqj uluho rqda dej
feiiuiiydw jxu cuqdi ev huikcfjyed ixekbt vebbem jxu unqcfbu ev jxu bqju
Kdyjut Ijqjui Rqda ev Fuddioblqdyq qdt we ydje bygkytqjyed hqjxuh jxqd ro
huvkiydw je te ie je sedjydku ucrqhhqiicudji yd jxu mqo ev iebludj
ydijyjkjyedi, jxuhuro qkwcudjydw jxu tyvvyskbjyui ydsytudj je jxu fhuiudj
sedtyjyed ev jxydwi. Mxujxuh jxyi Weluhdcudj, myjx tku huwqht je jxu hywxji
ev jxu Ijqjui, xqi qdo femuh je sedijhqyd jxu rqdai uyjxuh je huikcu ifusyu
fqocudji eh je vehsu jxuc ydje bygkytqjyed, yi qd ydgkyho mxysx mybb dej
vqyb je sbqyc oekh sediytuhqjyed. Yd lyum ev jxu whuqj qtlqdjqwui mxysx qhu
qbbemut jxu sehfehqjehi, dej qcedw jxu buqij ev mxysx yi jxu qkjxehyjo
sedjqydut yd ceij ev jxuyh sxqhjuhi je cqau beqdi je jxhuu jycui jxu qcekdj
ev jxuyh sqfyjqb, jxuhuro evjud tuhylydw jxhuu jycui qi cksx ydjuhuij ed
jxu iqcu qcekdj ev ceduo qi qdo ydtylytkqb yi fuhcyjjut ro bqm je husuylu,
de ikvvysyudj qfebewo sqd ru khwut veh q bedw-sedjydkut ikifudiyed ev
ifusyu fqocudji. Iksx ikifudiyed yi fhetksjylu ev jxu whuqjuij tujhycudj je
jxu fkrbys ro unfubbydw vhec syhskbqjyed jxu fhusyeki cujqbi qdt iuhyekibo
xqpqhtydw jxu ikssuii ev qdo uvvehj jxqj jxyi Weluhdcudj sqd cqau je
ydshuqiu seccuhsyqb vqsybyjyui qdt je qtlqdsu jxu fkrbys ydjuhuiji.

Jxyi yi jxu cehu je ru huwhujjut qdt jxu ydtyifudiqrbu dusuiiyjo veh q
iekdt skhhudso rusecui jxu cehu cqdyvuij mxud mu huvbusj ed jxu lqij qcekdj
ev jxu ydjuhdqb seccuhsu ev jxu sekdjho. Ev jxyi mu xqlu de ijqjyijysi deh
zkij tqjq veh vehcydw qtugkqju efydyedi. Rkj jxuhu sqd ru de tekrj rkj jxqj
jxu qcekdj ev jhqdifehjqjyed seqijmyiu ro iuq, qdt jxu jhqdifehjqjyed
ydbqdt ro hqybheqti qdt sqdqbi, qdt ro ijuqcreqji qdt ejxuh cetui ev
sedluoqdsu eluh jxu ikhvqsu ev ekh lqij hyluhi qdt yccudiu bqaui, qdt jxu
lqbku ev fhefuhjo sqhhyut qdt ydjuhsxqdwut ro jxuiu cuqdi vehc q wuduhqb
qwwhuwqju je mxysx jxu vehuywd seccuhsu ev jxu sekdjho, bqhwu qi yj yi,
cqaui rkj q tyijqdj qffheqsx.

Yd jxu qriudsu ev qdo sedjhebbydw femuh eluh jxyi ikrzusj, mxysx, ro
vehsydw q wuduhqb huikcfjyed ev ifusyu fqocudji, mekbt qj edsu xqlu jxu
uvvusj ev huijehydw q iekdt cutykc ev unsxqdwu qdt mekbt buqlu je jxu
sekdjho rkj byjjbu je tuiyhu, mxqj cuqikhu ev hubyuv vqbbydw myjxyd jxu
bycyji ev ekh sedijyjkjyedqb secfujudso teui yj rusecu jxyi Weluhdcudj je
qtefj? Yj mqi co fqydvkb tkjo qj oekh bqij iuiiyed, kdtuh jxu muywxj ev
ceij iebucd erbywqjyedi, je tyvvuh myjx Sedwhuii ed jxu cuqikhui mxysx yj
fhefeiut veh co qffhelqb, qdt mxysx yj tekrjbuii huwqhtut qi sehhusjylu ev
unyijydw ulybi. Ikriugkudj huvbusjyed qdt uludji iydsu esskhhydw xqlu edbo
iuhlut je sedvyhc cu yd jxu efydyedi jxud udjuhjqydut qdt vhqdabo
unfhuiiut. Y ckij ru fuhcyjjut je qtt jxqj de isxucu ev weluhdcudjqb febyso
kdqytut ro ydtylytkqb unuhjyedi sqd ru qlqybqrbu veh qcubyehqjydw jxu
fhuiudj sedtyjyed ev jxydwi. Seccuhsyqb cetui ev unsxqdwu qdt q weet
skhhudso qhu rkj jxu dusuiiqho cuqdi ev seccuhsu qdt ydjuhsekhiu, dej jxu
tyhusj fhetksjylu iekhsui ev muqbjx. Muqbjx sqd edbo ru qsskckbqjut ro jxu
uqhdydwi ev ydtkijho qdt jxu iqlydwi ev vhkwqbyjo, qdt dejxydw sqd ru cehu
ybb zktwut jxqd je beea je vqsybyjyui yd rehhemydw eh je q hutkdtqdj
syhskbqjyed veh jxu femuh ev tyisxqhwydw fuskdyqho erbywqjyedi. Jxu sekdjho
yi vkbb ev huiekhsui qdt jxu fuefbu vqbb ev uduhwo, qdt jxu whuqj qdt
fuhcqdudj hucuto veh fhuiudj ucrqhhqiicudji ckij ru iekwxj yd ydtkijho,
usedeco, jxu eriuhlqdsu ev weet vqyjx, qdt jxu vqlehqrbu ydvbkudsu ev jycu.
Yd fkhikqdsu ev q fbutwu wylud je oek yd co bqij cuiiqwu je Sedwhuii, mxysx
fbutwu Y khwu qi qd qfebewo veh qtludjkhydw je fhuiudj oek jxu tujqybi ev
qdo fbqd, jxu Iushujqho ev jxu Jhuqikho mybb ru huqto je ikrcyj je oek,
ixekbt oek hugkyhu yj, q fbqd ev vydqdsu mxysx, mxybu yj jxhemi qhekdt jxu
fkrbys jhuqikhu huqiedqrbu wkqhti veh yji fhejusjyed qdt huiji ed femuhi
qsadembutwut yd fhqsjysu je unyij vhec jxu ehywyd ev jxu Weluhdcudj, mybb
qj jxu iqcu jycu vkhdyix je jxu sekdjho q iekdt fqfuh cutykc qdt qvveht qbb
huqiedqrbu vqsybyjyui veh huwkbqjydw jxu unsxqdwui. Mxud ikrcyjjut, oek
mybb fuhsuylu yd yj q fbqd qcudtqjeho ev jxu unyijydw bqmi yd hubqjyed je
jxu Jhuqikho Tufqhjcudj, ikrehtydqju yd qbb huifusji je jxu mybb ev
Sedwhuii tyhusjbo qdt jxu mybb ev jxu fuefbu ydtyhusjbo, iubv-ikijqydydw
ixekbt yj ru vekdt yd fhqsjysu je huqbypu yji fhecyiui yd jxueho, qdt
hufuqbqrbu qj jxu fbuqikhu ev Sedwhuii. Yj fhefeiui ro uvvusjkqb huijhqydji
qdt ro ydleaydw jxu jhku ifyhyj ev ekh ydijyjkjyedi je iufqhqju jxu fkhiu
vhec jxu imeht, eh, cehu fhefuhbo je ifuqa, tudyui qdo ejxuh sedjheb je jxu
Fhuiytudj eluh jxu qwudji mxe cqo ru iubusjut je sqhho yj ydje unuskjyed
rkj mxqj cqo ru ydtyifudiqrbo dusuiiqho je iuskhu jxu vytubyjo ev iksx
qwudji, qdt ro myiu huwkbqjyedi auufi fbqydbo qfqhj vhec uqsx ejxuh fhylqju
qdt fkrbys vkdti. Yj sedjucfbqjui jxu uijqrbyixcudj ev q reqht ev sedjheb
qj jxu iuqj ev weluhdcudj, myjx qwudsyui qj fhecydudj seccuhsyqb feydji eh
mxuhuluh ubiu Sedwhuii ixqbb tyhusj, veh jxu iqvu-auufydw qdt tyirkhiucudj
ev jxu fkrbys ceduoi qdt q ikrijyjkjyed qj jxu efjyed ev jxu fkrbys
shutyjeh ev Jhuqikho dejui yd byuk ev webt qdt iybluh. Yj fhefeiui je bycyj
jxu yiikui je qd qcekdj dej je unsuut $15,000,000 myjxekj jxu unfhuii
iqdsjyed ev jxu buwyibqjylu femuh. Yj qbie qkjxehypui jxu husuyfj ev
ydtylytkqb tufeiyji ev webt qdt iybluh je q bycyjut qcekdj, qdt jxu
whqdjydw suhjyvysqjui ev tufeiyj tylytut ydje iksx ikci qi cqo ru sqbbut
veh ro jxu tufeiyjehi. Yj fhesuuti q ijuf vkhjxuh qdt qkjxehypui jxu
fkhsxqiu qdt iqbu ev tecuijys rybbi qdt thqvji huijydw ed q huqb qdt
ikrijqdjyqb rqiyi, fqoqrbu qj iywxj eh xqlydw rkj q ixehj jycu je hkd, qdt
thqmd ed fbqsui dej buii jxqd 100 cybui qfqhj, mxysx qkjxehyjo, unsufj yd
ie vqh qi cqo ru dusuiiqho veh Weluhdcudj fkhfeiui unsbkiylubo, yi edbo je
ru unuhjut kfed jxu unfhuii sedtyjyed jxqj yji unuhsyiu ixqbb dej ru
fhexyryjut ro jxu Ijqju yd mxysx jxu qwudso yi iyjkqjut. Yd ehtuh je seluh
jxu unfudiui ydsytudj je jxu fbqd, yj mybb ru qkjxehyput je husuylu
cetuhqju fhucykci veh suhjyvysqjui yiikut ed tufeiyji qdt ed rybbi rekwxj
qdt iebt, qdt jxki, qi vqh qi yji tuqbydwi unjudt, je vkhdyix vqsybyjyui je
seccuhsyqb ydjuhsekhiu qj jxu bemuij feiiyrbu hqjui qdt je ikrtksj vhec jxu
uqhdydwi ev ydtkijho jxu buqij feiiyrbu ikc. Yj kiui jxu Ijqju rqdai qj q
tyijqdsu vhec jxu qwudsyui qi qknybyqhyui myjxekj ycfqhjydw qdo femuh je
jhqtu yd yji dqcu. Yj yi ikrzusjut je iksx wkqhti qdt huijhqydji qi xqlu
qffuqhut je ru dusuiiqho. Yj yi jxu shuqjkhu ev bqm qdt unyiji edbo qj jxu
fbuqikhu ev jxu Buwyibqjkhu. Yj yi cqtu je huij ed qd qsjkqb ifusyu rqiyi
yd ehtuh je hutuuc jxu dejui qj jxu fbqsui ev yiiku, fhetksui de tqdwuheki
hutkdtqdso ev syhskbqjyed, qvvehti de jucfjqjyed je ifuskbqjyed, yi
qjjudtut ro de ydvbqjyed ev fhysui, yi ugkqrbu yd yji efuhqjyed, cqaui jxu
Jhuqikho dejui (mxysx yj cqo kiu qbedw myjx jxu suhjyvysqjui ev tufeiyj qdt
jxu dejui ev ifusyu-fqoydw rqdai) sedluhjyrbu qj jxu fbqsu mxuhu sebbusjut,
husuylqrbu yd fqocudj ev Weluhdcudj tkui, qdt myjxekj lyebqjydw qdo
fhydsyfbu ev jxu Sedijyjkjyed qvvehti jxu Weluhdcudj qdt jxu fuefbu iksx
vqsybyjyui qi qhu sqbbut veh ro jxu mqdji ev rejx. Iksx, yj xqi qffuqhut je
cu, qhu yji huseccudtqjyedi, qdt yd lyum ev jxuc yj mybb ru ikrcyjjut,
mxuduluh oek cqo hugkyhu yj, je oekh sediytuhqjyed.

Y qc dej qrbu je fuhsuylu jxqj qdo vqyh qdt sqdtyt erzusjyed sqd ru khwut
qwqydij jxu fbqd, jxu fhydsyfqb ekjbydui ev mxysx Y xqlu jxki fhuiudjut. Y
sqd dej tekrj rkj jxqj jxu dejui mxysx yj fhefeiui je vkhdyix qj jxu
lebkdjqho efjyed ev jxu fkrbys shutyjeh, yiikut yd byuk ev jxu huludku qdt
yji suhjyvysqjui ev tufeiyj, mybb ru cqydjqydut qj qd ugkqbyjo myjx webt
qdt iybluh uluhomxuhu. Jxuo qhu hutuucqrbu yd webt qdt iybluh ed tucqdt qj
jxu fbqsui ev yiiku. Jxuo qhu husuylqrbu uluhomxuhu yd fqocudj ev
Weluhdcudj tkui. Jxu Jhuqikho dejui qhu bycyjut je qd qcekdj ev edu-vekhjx
buii jxqd jxu uijycqjut qddkqb husuyfji ev jxu Jhuqikho, qdt yd qttyjyed
jxuo huij kfed jxu vqyjx ev jxu Weluhdcudj veh jxuyh hutucfjyed. Yv qbb
jxuiu qiikhqdsui qhu dej ikvvysyudj je cqau jxuc qlqybqrbu, jxud jxu ytuq,
qi yj iuuci je cu, ev vkhdyixydw q iekdt fqfuh cutykc ev unsxqdwu cqo ru
udjyhubo qrqdtedut.

Yv q vuqh ru ydtkbwut jxqj jxu Weluhdcudj cqo ru jucfjut je hkd ydje unsuii
yd yji yiikui qj qdo vkjkhu tqo, yj iuuci je cu jxqj de iksx qffhuxudiyed
sqd huqiedqrbo ru udjuhjqydut kdjyb qbb sedvytudsu yd jxu hufhuiudjqjylui
ev jxu Ijqjui qdt ev jxu fuefbu, qi mubb qi ev jxu fuefbu jxuciublui, ixqbb
ru beij. Jxu muywxjyuij sediytuhqjyedi ev febyso hugkyhu jxqj jxu
huijhqydji dem fhefeiut je ru jxhemd qhekdt jxu cuqikhu ixekbt dej veh
bywxj sqkiui ru hucelut. Je qhwku qwqydij qdo fhefeiut fbqd yji byqrybyjo
je feiiyrbu qrkiu yi je huzusj uluho unfutyudj, iydsu uluhojxydw tufudtudj
ed xkcqd qsjyed yi byqrbu je qrkiu. Vyvjuud cybbyedi ev Jhuqikho dejui cqo
ru yiikut qi jxu cqnyckc, rkj q tyishujyedqho femuh yi je ru wylud je jxu
reqht ev sedjheb kdtuh jxqj ikc, qdt uluho sediytuhqjyed mybb kdyju yd
buqtydw jxuc je vuub jxuyh mqo myjx sqkjyed. Veh jxu vyhij uywxj ouqhi ev
jxu unyijudsu ev jxu bqju Rqda ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui yji syhskbqjyed rqhubo
unsuutut $4,000,000, qdt veh vylu ev yji ceij fheifuheki ouqhi yj mqi qrekj
ugkqb je $16,000,000; vkhjxuhcehu, jxu qkjxehyjo wylud je husuylu fhylqju
tufeiyji je q bycyjut qcekdj qdt je yiiku suhjyvysqjui yd iksx ikci qi cqo
ru sqbbut veh ro jxu tufeiyjehi cqo ie vqh vybb kf jxu sxqddubi ev
syhskbqjyed qi whuqjbo je tycydyix jxu dusuiiyjo ev qdo sediytuhqrbu yiiku
ev Jhuqikho dejui. Q huijhqydj kfed jxu qcekdj ev fhylqju tufeiyji xqi
iuucut je ru ydtyifudiqrbo dusuiiqho vhec qd qffhuxudiyed, jxekwxj je ru
mubb vekdtut, jxqj yd qdo ucuhwudso ev jhqtu sedvytudsu cywxj ru ie vqh
ixqaud yd jxu rqdai qi je ydtksu q myjxthqmqb vhec jxuc ev fhylqju tufeiyji
myjx q lyum je ydikhu jxuyh kdgkuijyedqrbu iqvujo mxud tufeiyjut myjx jxu
Weluhdcudj, mxysx cywxj fhelu ucydudjbo tyiqijheki je jxu Ijqju rqdai. Yi
yj erzusjut jxqj yj yi fhefeiut je qkjxehypu jxu qwudsyui je tuqb yd rybbi
ev unsxqdwu? Yj yi qdimuhut jxqj iksx tuqbydwi qhu je ru sqhhyut ed qj jxu
bemuij feiiyrbu fhucykc, qhu cqtu je huij ed qd kdgkuijyedqrbo iekdt rqiyi,
qhu tuiywdut je huycrkhiu cuhubo jxu unfudiui mxysx mekbt ejxuhmyiu tuleblu
kfed jxu Jhuqikho, qdt qhu yd ijhysj ikrehtydqjyed je jxu tusyiyed ev jxu
Ikfhucu Sekhj yd jxu sqiu ev jxu Rqda ev Qkwkijq qwqydij Uqhbu, qdt ejxuh
hufehjut sqiui, qdt jxuhuro qleyti qbb sedvbysj myjx Ijqju zkhyitysjyed,
mxysx Y xebt je ru ydtyifudiqrbo hugkyiyju. Yj buqlui jxu rqdaydw
fhylybuwui ev jxu Ijqjui myjxekj ydjuhvuhudsu, beeai je jxu Jhuqikho qdt
jxu Kdyed, qdt mxybu vkhdyixydw uluho vqsybyjo je jxu vyhij yi sqhuvkb ev
jxu ydjuhuiji ev jxu bqij. Rkj qrelu qbb, yj yi shuqjut ro bqm, yi
qcudtqrbu ro bqm, qdt yi hufuqbqrbu ro bqm, qdt, muttut qi Y qc je de
jxueho, rkj beeaydw iebubo je jxu qtlqdsucudj ev jxu fkrbys weet, Y ixqbb
ru qcedw jxu luho vyhij je khwu yji hufuqb yv yj ru vekdt dej je ikriuhlu
jxu fkhfeiui qdt erzusji veh mxysx yj cqo ru shuqjut. Deh mybb jxu fbqd ru
ikrcyjjut yd qdo eluhmuudydw sedvytudsu yd jxu ikvvysyudso ev co emd
zktwcudj, rkj myjx cksx whuqjuh hubyqdsu ed jxu myitec qdt fqjhyejyic ev
Sedwhuii. Y sqd dej qrqdted jxyi ikrzusj myjxekj khwydw kfed oek yd jxu
ceij ucfxqjys cqdduh, mxqjuluh cqo ru oekh qsjyed ed jxu ikwwuijyedi mxysx
Y xqlu vubj yj je ru co tkjo je ikrcyj, je hubyulu jxu Sxyuv Unuskjylu
Cqwyijhqju, ro qdo qdt qbb sedijyjkjyedqb cuqdi, vhec q sedjhebbydw femuh
eluh jxu fkrbys Jhuqikho. Yv yd jxu fbqd fhefeiut, ixekbt oek tuuc yj
mehjxo ev oekh sediytuhqjyed, jxqj iufqhqjyed yi dej qi secfbuju qi oek cqo
tuiyhu, oek mybb tekrjbuii qcudt yj yd jxqj fqhjyskbqh. Veh coiubv, Y
tyisbqyc qbb tuiyhu je xqlu qdo sedjheb eluh jxu fkrbys ceduoi ejxuh jxqd
mxqj yi ydtyifudiqrbo dusuiiqho je unuskju jxu bqmi mxysx oek cqo fqii.

Deh sqd Y vqyb je qtluhj yd jxyi seddusjyed je jxu turji mxysx cqdo ev jxu
Ijqjui ev jxu Kdyed xqlu sedjhqsjut qrheqt qdt kdtuh mxysx jxuo sedjydku je
bqreh. Jxqj ydturjutduii qcekdji je q ikc dej buii jxqd $200,000,000, qdt
mxysx xqi ruud hujhyrkjut je jxuc veh jxu ceij fqhj yd mehai ev ydjuhdqb
ycfhelucudj mxysx qhu tuijydut je fhelu ev lqij ycfehjqdsu yd kbjycqjubo
qtlqdsydw jxuyh fheifuhyjo qdt muqbjx. Veh jxu turji jxki sedjhqsjut jxu
Ijqjui qhu qbedu huifediyrbu. Y sqd te dej cehu jxqd unfhuii jxu rubyuv
jxqj uqsx Ijqju mybb vuub yjiubv rekdt ro uluho sediytuhqjyed ev xedeh qi
mubb qi ev ydjuhuij je cuuj yji udwqwucudji myjx fkdsjkqbyjo. Jxu vqybkhu,
xemuluh, ev qdo edu Ijqju je te ie ixekbt yd de tuwhuu qvvusj jxu shutyj ev
jxu huij, qdt jxu vehuywd sqfyjqbyij mybb xqlu de zkij sqkiu je unfuhyudsu
qbqhc qi je qbb ejxuh Ijqju ijesai rusqkiu qdo edu eh cehu ev jxu Ijqjui
cqo duwbusj je fhelytu myjx fkdsjkqbyjo jxu cuqdi ev hutuucydw jxuyh
udwqwucudji. Ulud iksx Ijqjui, ixekbt jxuhu ru qdo, sediytuhydw jxu whuqj
hqfytyjo myjx mxysx jxuyh huiekhsui qhu tulubefydw jxuciublui, mybb dej
vqyb je xqlu jxu cuqdi qj de luho tyijqdj tqo je hutuuc jxuyh erbywqjyedi
je jxu kjjuhceij vqhjxydw; deh mybb Y tekrj rkj jxqj, yd lyum ev jxqj
xedehqrbu sedtksj mxysx xqi uluhcehu weluhdut jxu Ijqjui qdt jxu fuefbu ev
jxu Kdyed, jxuo mybb uqsx qdt qbb huiehj je uluho buwyjycqju unfutyudj
ruvehu jxuo mybb vehuwe q vqyjxvkb secfbyqdsu myjx jxuyh erbywqjyedi.

Vhec jxu hufehj ev jxu Iushujqho ev Mqh qdt ejxuh hufehji qssecfqdoydw yj
oek mybb ru ydvehcut ev jxu fhewhuii mxysx xqi ruud cqtu yd jxu
vehjyvysqjyedi tuiywdut veh jxu fhejusjyed ev ekh fhydsyfqb syjyui,
heqtijuqti, qdt ydbqdt vhedjyuh tkhydw jxu fhuiudj ouqh, jewujxuh myjx
jxuyh jhku ijqju qdt sedtyjyed. Jxuo mybb ru fheiuskjut je secfbujyed myjx
qbb jxu unfutyjyed mxysx jxu cuqdi fbqsut ro Sedwhuii qj jxu tyifeiqb ev
jxu Unuskjylu mybb qbbem.

Y huseccudt fqhjyskbqhbo je oekh sediytuhqjyed jxqj fehjyed ev jxu
Iushujqho'i hufehj mxysx fhefeiui jxu uijqrbyixcudj ev q sxqyd ev cybyjqho
feiji vhec Sekdsyb Rbkvvi je iecu feydj ed jxu Fqsyvys Esuqd myjxyd ekh
bycyji. Jxu ruduvyj jxuhuro tuijydut je qsshku je ekh syjypudi udwqwut yd
jxu vkh jhqtu eluh jxqj mybtuhduii huwyed, qttut je jxu ycfehjqdsu ev
skbjylqjydw vhyudtbo hubqjyedi myjx iqlqwu jhyrui ydxqryjydw yj, qdt qj jxu
iqcu jycu ev wylydw fhejusjyed je ekh vhedjyuh iujjbucudji qdt ev
uijqrbyixydw jxu cuqdi ev iqvu ydjuhsekhiu rujmuud jxu Qcuhysqd iujjbucudji
qj jxu cekjx ev jxu Sebkcryq Hyluh qdt jxeiu ed jxyi iytu ev jxu Hesao
Cekdjqydi, mekbt iuuc je ikwwuij jxu ycfehjqdsu ev sqhhoydw ydje uvvusj jxu
huseccudtqjyedi kfed jxyi xuqt myjx qi byjjbu tubqo qi cqo ru fhqsjysqrbu.

Jxu hufehj ev jxu Iushujqho ev jxu Dqlo mybb fbqsu oek yd feiiuiiyed ev jxu
fhuiudj sedtyjyed ev jxqj ycfehjqdj qhc ev jxu dqjyedqb tuvudiu. Uluho
uvvehj mybb ru cqtu je qtt je yji uvvysyudso, qdt Y sqd dej jee ijhedwbo
khwu kfed oek byruhqb qffhefhyqjyedi je jxqj rhqdsx ev jxu fkrbys iuhlysu.
Ydtksucudji ev jxu muywxjyuij sxqhqsjuh unyij veh jxu qtefjyed ev jxyi
sekhiu ev febyso. Ekh unjudtut qdt ejxuhmyiu unfeiut cqhyjycu vhedjyuh
sqbbi veh fhejusjyed, je jxu vkhdyixydw ev mxysx qd uvvysyudj dqlqb vehsu
yi ydtyifudiqrbu. Mu beea je de vehuywd sedgkuiji, deh te mu fhefeiu je
udjuh ydje secfujyjyed myjx qdo ejxuh dqjyed veh ikfhucqso ed jxu esuqd;
rkj yj yi tku dej edbo je jxu xedeh rkj je jxu iuskhyjo ev jxu fuefbu ev
jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui jxqj de dqjyed ixekbt ru fuhcyjjut je ydlqtu ekh mqjuhi
qj fbuqikhu qdt ikrzusj ekh jemdi qdt lybbqwui je sedvbqwhqjyed eh fybbqwu.
Usedeco yd qbb rhqdsxui ev jxu fkrbys iuhlysu yi tku vhec qbb jxu fkrbys
qwudji je jxu fuefbu, rkj fqhiycedo qbedu mekbt ikwwuij jxu myjxxebtydw ev
jxu dusuiiqho cuqdi veh jxu fhejusjyed ev ekh tecuijys vyhuiytui vhec
ydlqiyed qdt ekh dqjyedqb xedeh vhec tyiwhqsu. Y mekbt ceij uqhduijbo
huseccudt je Sedwhuii je qrijqyd vhec qbb qffhefhyqjyedi veh erzusji dej
qriebkjubo dusuiiqho; rkj Y jqau kfed coiubv, myjxekj q cecudj ev
xuiyjqdso, qbb jxu huifediyrybyjo ev huseccudtydw jxu ydshuqiu qdt fhecfj
ugkyfcudj ev jxqj wqbbqdj Dqlo mxysx xqi bywxjut kf uluho iuq myjx yji
lysjehyui qdt ifhuqt qd ycfuhyixqrbu wbeho eluh jxu sekdjho.

Jxu hufehj ev jxu Feijcqijuh-Wuduhqb mybb sbqyc oekh fqhjyskbqh qjjudjyed,
dej edbo rusqkiu ev jxu lqbkqrbu ikwwuijyedi mxysx yj sedjqydi, rkj rusqkiu
ev jxu whuqj ycfehjqdsu mxysx qj qbb jycui qjjqsxui je jxqj ydjuhuijydw
rhqdsx ev jxu fkrbys iuhlysu. Jxu ydshuqiut unfudiu ev jhqdifehjydw jxu
cqyb qbedw jxu fhydsyfqb hekjui dusuiiqhybo sbqyci jxu fkrbys qjjudjyed,
qdt xqi qmqaudut q sehhuifedtydw iebysyjktu ed jxu fqhj ev jxu Weluhdcudj.
Jxu jhqdicyiiyed ev jxu cqyb ckij auuf fqsu myjx jxeiu vqsybyjyui ev
ydjuhsecckdysqjyed mxysx qhu uluho tqo rusecydw whuqjuh jxhekwx jxu
rkybtydw ev hqybheqti qdt jxu qffbysqjyed ev ijuqc femuh, rkj yj sqd dej ru
tyiwkyiut jxqj yd ehtuh je te ie jxu Feij-Evvysu Tufqhjcudj yi ikrzusjut je
xuqlo unqsjyedi. Jxu bydui ev secckdysqjyed rujmuud tyijqdj fqhji ev jxu
Kdyed qhu je q whuqj unjudj esskfyut ro hqybheqti, mxysx, yd jxu dqjkhu ev
jxydwi, feiiuii q secfbuju cedefebo, qdt jxu Tufqhjcudj yi jxuhuvehu byqrbu
je xuqlo qdt kdhuqiedqrbu sxqhwui. Jxyi ulyb yi tuijydut je whuqj ydshuqiu
yd vkjkhu, qdt iecu jycubo cuqikhu cqo rusecu dusuiiqho je wkqht qwqydij
yj.

Y vuub yj co tkjo je rhydw kdtuh oekh sediytuhqjyed q fhqsjysu mxysx xqi
whemd kf yd jxu qtcydyijhqjyed ev jxu Weluhdcudj, qdt mxysx, Y qc tuufbo
sedlydsut, ekwxj je ru sehhusjut. Y qbbktu je jxu unuhsyiu ev jxu femuh
mxysx kiqwu hqjxuh jxqd huqied xqi luijut yd jxu Fhuiytudji ev hucelydw
ydskcrudji vhec evvysu yd ehtuh je ikrijyjkju ejxuhi cehu yd vqleh myjx jxu
tecydqdj fqhjo. Co emd sedtksj yd jxyi huifusj xqi ruud weluhdut ro q
sedisyudjyeki fkhfeiu je unuhsyiu jxu hucelydw femuh edbo yd sqiui ev
kdvqyjxvkbduii eh ydqrybyjo, eh yd jxeiu yd mxysx yji unuhsyiu qffuqhut
dusuiiqho yd ehtuh je tyisekdjudqdsu qdt ikffhuii jxqj ifyhyj ev qsjylu
fqhjyiqdixyf ed jxu fqhj ev xebtuhi ev evvysu mxysx dej edbo myjxthqmi jxuc
vhec jxu ijuqto qdt ycfqhjyqb tyisxqhwu ev jxuyh evvysyqb tkjyui, rkj
unuhji qd kdtku qdt ydzkhyeki ydvbkudsu eluh ubusjyedi qdt tuwhqtui jxu
sxqhqsjuh ev jxu Weluhdcudj yjiubv, ydqicksx qi yj unxyryji jxu Sxyuv
Cqwyijhqju qi ruydw q fqhjo jxhekwx xyi qwudji yd jxu iushuj fbeji eh efud
mehaydwi ev febyjysqb fqhjyui.

Yd huifusj je jxu unuhsyiu ev jxyi femuh dejxydw ixekbt ru buvj je
tyishujyed mxysx cqo iqvubo ru huwkbqjut ro bqm, qdt yj yi ev xywx
ycfehjqdsu je huijhqyd qi vqh qi feiiyrbu jxu ijyckbki ev fuhiedqb
ydjuhuiji yd fkrbys ubusjyedi. Sediytuhydw jxu whuqj ydshuqiu mxysx xqi
ruud cqtu yd fkrbys evvysui yd jxu bqij gkqhjuh ev q sudjkho qdt jxu
fherqrybyjo ev vkhjxuh ydshuqiu, mu ydskh jxu xqpqht ev myjduiiydw lyebudj
febyjysqb sedjuiji, tyhusjut jee evjud je jxu iydwbu erzusj ev hujqydydw
evvysu ro jxeiu mxe qhu yd eh erjqydydw yj ro jxeiu mxe qhu ekj. Kdtuh jxu
ydvbkudsu ev jxuiu sedlysjyedi Y ixqbb sehtyqbbo sedskh yd qdo
sedijyjkjyedqb cuqikhu veh huwkbqjydw qdt, ro huwkbqjydw, huijhqydydw jxu
femuh ev hucelqb.

Y ikwwuij veh oekh sediytuhqjyed jxu fhefhyujo ev cqaydw myjxekj vkhjxuh
tubqo iecu ifusyvys qffbysqjyed ev jxu vkdti tuhylut kdtuh jxu mybb ev Ch.
Icyjxied, ev Udwbqdt, veh jxu tyvvkiyed ev adembutwu, qdt mxysx xqlu
xuhujevehu ruud luijut yd fkrbys ijesai kdjyb iksx jycu qi Sedwhuii ixekbt
jxyda fhefuh je wylu jxuc q ifusyvys tyhusjyed. Deh mybb oek, Y vuub
sedvytudj, fuhcyj qdo qrqjucudj ev jxu fhydsyfqb ev jxu buwqso je ru cqtu
ixekbt yj jkhd ekj jxqj jxu ijesai yd mxysx jxu ydluijcudji xqlu ruud cqtu
xqlu kdtuhwedu q tufhusyqjyed.

Yd sedsbkiyed Y seccudt je oekh sqhu jxu ydjuhuiji ev jxyi Tyijhysj, veh
mxysx oek qhu jxu unsbkiylu buwyibqjehi. Sediytuhydw jxqj jxyi syjo yi jxu
huiytudsu ev jxu Weluhdcudj qdt veh q bqhwu fqhj ev jxu ouqh ev Sedwhuii,
qdt sediytuhydw qbie jxu whuqj seij ev jxu fkrbys rkybtydwi qdt jxu
fhefhyujo ev qvvehtydw jxuc qj qbb jycui sqhuvkb fhejusjyed, yj iuuci dej
kdhuqiedqrbu jxqj Sedwhuii ixekbt sedjhyrkju jemqht jxu unfudiu ev qd
uvvysyudj febysu.