Kf kyv Jverkv reu Yfljv fw Ivgivjvekrkzmvj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj:

Nv yrmv tfekzelvu ivrjfe kf vogivjj fli gifwfleu xirkzkluv kf kyv Xivrk
Tivrkfi fw Rcc Kyzexj wfi eldsvicvjj svevwzkj tfewviivu lgfe lj rj r
gvfgcv. Scvjjvu nzky xvezrc jvrjfej, kyv yljsreudre yrj yzj xrievij wzccvu
nzky rsleuretv, reu kyv evtvjjrizvj fw czwv, efk kf jgvrb fw zkj clolizvj,
rsfleu ze vmvip uzivtkzfe. Nyzcv ze jfdv fkyvi erkzfej jkvrup reu
zeuljkizflj crsfi tre yriucp wzeu kyv dvrej fw jlsjzjkvetv, kyv xivrkvjk
vmzc nyzty nv yrmv kf vetflekvi zj r jligclj fw gifultkzfe svpfeu kyv yfdv
uvdreu, nyzty jvvbj, reu nzky uzwwztlckp wzeuj, r grikzrc dribvk ze fkyvi
ivxzfej. Kyv yvrcky fw kyv tflekip, nzky grikzrc votvgkzfej, yrj wfi kyv
grjk pvri svve nvcc givjvimvu, reu leuvi kyvzi wivv reu nzjv zejkzklkzfej
kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj riv irgzucp rumretzex kfnriu kyv tfejlddrkzfe fw kyv yzxy
uvjkzep nyzty re fmviilczex Gifmzuvetv jvvdj kf yrmv dribvu flk wfi kyvd.
Vovdgk wifd ufdvjkzt tfemlcjzfe reu rk gvrtv nzky rcc kyv nficu, nv riv
cvwk wivv kf tfejlck rj kf kyv svjk dvrej fw jvtlizex reu rumretzex kyv
yrggzevjj fw kyv gvfgcv. Jlty riv kyv tzitldjkretvj leuvi nyzty pfl efn
rjjvdscv ze pfli ivjgvtkzmv tyrdsvij reu nyzty jyflcu cvru lj kf lezkv ze
girzjv reu kyrebjxzmzex kf kyrk xivrk Svzex nyf druv lj reu nyf givjvimvj
lj rj r erkzfe.

Z tfexirklcrkv pfl, wvccfn-tzkzqvej, fe kyv yrggp tyrexv ze kyv rjgvtk fw
fli wfivzxe rwwrzij jzetv dp crjk reelrc dvjjrxv. Trljvj fw tfdgcrzek rk
kyrk kzdv vozjkvu svknvve kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj reu Xivrk Sizkrze nyzty,
rkkveuvu sp ziizkrkzex tzitldjkretvj, kyivrkvevu dfjk jvizfljcp kyv glsczt
gvrtv. Kyv uzwwztlckp fw rualjkzex rdztrscp kyv hlvjkzfej rk zjjlv svknvve
kyv knf tflekizvj nrj ze ef jdrcc uvxivv rlxdvekvu sp kyv crgjv fw kzdv
jzetv kyvp yru kyvzi fizxze. Kyv fgzezfej vekvikrzevu sp kyv Vovtlkzmv fe
jvmvirc fw kyv cvruzex kfgztj ze uzjglkv nviv wirebcp jvk wfiky ze kyv
dvjjrxv rk kyv fgvezex fw pfli crkv jvjjzfe. Kyv rggfzekdvek fw r jgvtzrc
dzezjkvi sp Xivrk Sizkrze kf kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj nzky gfnvi kf evxfkzrkv lgfe
dfjk fw kyv gfzekj fw uzwwvivetv zeuztrkvu r uvjziv fe yvi grik rdztrscp kf
rualjk kyvd, reu kyrk dzezjkvi nrj dvk sp kyv Vovtlkzmv ze kyv jrdv jgzizk
nyzty yru uztkrkvu yzj dzjjzfe. Kyv kivrkp tfejvhlvek kyvivfe yrmzex svve
ulcp irkzwzvu sp kyv knf Xfmviedvekj, r tfgp, kfxvkyvi nzky kyv
tfiivjgfeuvetv nyzty rttfdgrezvu zk, zj yvivnzky tfddleztrkvu. Z kiljk kyrk
nyzcjk pfl drp jvv ze zk efkyzex fsavtkzferscv, zk drp sv kyv dvrej fw
givjvimzex wfi re zeuvwzezkv gvizfu kyv rdztrscv ivcrkzfej yrggzcp vozjkzex
svknvve kyv knf Xfmviedvekj. Kyv hlvjkzfe fw gvrtv fi nri svknvve kyv
Lezkvu Jkrkvj reu Xivrk Sizkrze zj r hlvjkzfe fw kyv uvvgvjk zekvivjk, efk
fecp kf kyvdjvcmvj, slk kf kyv tzmzczqvu nficu, jzetv zk zj jtritvcp
gfjjzscv kyrk r nri tflcu vozjk svknvve kyvd nzkyflk veurexvizex kyv gvrtv
fw Tyizjkveufd. Kyv zddvuzrkv vwwvtk fw kyv kivrkp lgfe flijvcmvj nzcc sv
wvck ze kyv jvtlizkp rwwfiuvu kf dvitrekzcv vekvigizjv, nyzty, ef cfexvi
rggivyvejzmv fw zekviilgkzfe, rumveklivj zkj jgvtlcrkzfej ze kyv dfjk
uzjkrek jvrj, reu, wivzxykvu nzky kyv uzmvijzwzvu gifultkzfej fw vmvip
creu, ivkliej kf scvjj fli fne. Kyviv zj efkyzex ze kyv kivrkp nyzty ze kyv
jczxykvjk uvxivv tfdgifdzkj kyv yfefi fi uzxezkp fw vzkyvi erkzfe. Evok kf
kyv jvkkcvdvek fw kyv sfleurip czev, nyzty dljk rcnrpj sv r drkkvi fw
uzwwztlckp svknvve jkrkvj rj svknvve zeuzmzulrcj, kyv hlvjkzfe nyzty jvvdvu
kf kyivrkve kyv xivrkvjk vdsriirjjdvek nrj kyrk tfeevtkvu nzky kyv Rwiztre
jcrmv kiruv.

Sp kyv kveky rikztcv fw kyv kivrkp fw Xyvek zk nrj vogivjjcp uvtcrivu
kyrk--

Nyvivrj kyv kirwwzt ze jcrmvj zj ziivtfetzcrscv nzky kyv gizetzgcvj fw
yldrezkp reu aljkztv, reu nyvivrj sfky Yzj Dravjkp reu kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj
riv uvjziflj fw tfekzelzex kyvzi vwwfikj kf gifdfkv zkj vekziv rsfczkzfe,
zk zj yvivsp rxivvu kyrk sfky kyv tfekirtkzex grikzvj jyrcc ljv kyvzi svjk
veuvrmfij kf rttfdgczjy jf uvjzirscv re fsavtk.

Ze kyv vewfitvdvek fw kyv crnj reu kivrkp jkzglcrkzfej fw Xivrk Sizkrze r
girtkztv yru kyivrkvevu kf xifn lg fe kyv grik fw zkj tilzjvij fw
jlsavtkzex kf mzjzkrkzfe jyzgj jrzczex leuvi kyv Rdviztre wcrx, nyzty,
nyzcv zk jvizfljcp zemfcmvu fli drizkzdv izxykj, nflcu jlsavtk kf mvorkzfe
r sirety fw fli kiruv nyzty nrj urzcp zetivrjzex, reu nyzty ivhlzivu kyv
wfjkvizex triv fw Xfmviedvek. Reu rckyflxy Cfiu Rsviuvve ze yzj
tfiivjgfeuvetv nzky kyv Rdviztre vemfpj rk Cfeufe vogivjjcp uzjtcrzdvu rcc
izxyk kf uvkrze re Rdviztre jyzg fe kyv yzxy jvrj, vmve zw wfleu nzky r
trixf fw jcrmvj fe sfriu, reu ivjkiztkvu kyv Sizkzjy givkvejzfe kf r dviv
tcrzd kf mzjzk reu zehlziv, pvk zk tflcu efk nvcc sv uzjtvievu sp kyv
Vovtlkzmv fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj yfn jlty mzjzk reu zehlzip tflcu sv druv
nzkyflk uvkvekzfe fe kyv mfprxv reu tfejvhlvek zekviilgkzfe kf kyv kiruv.
Zk nrj ivxriuvu rj kyv izxyk fw jvrity givjvekvu fecp ze r evn wfid reu
vogivjjvu ze uzwwvivek nfiuj, reu Z kyvivwfiv wvck zk kf sv dp ulkp
uzjkzetkcp kf uvtcriv ze dp reelrc dvjjrxv kf Tfexivjj kyrk ef jlty
tfetvjjzfe tflcu sv druv, reu kyrk kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj yru sfky kyv nzcc reu
kyv rszczkp kf vewfitv kyvzi fne crnj reu kf gifkvtk kyvzi wcrx wifd svzex
ljvu wfi gligfjvj nyfccp wfiszuuve sp kyfjv crnj reu fsefozflj kf kyv dfirc
tvejliv fw kyv nficu. Krbzex kyv dvjjrxv rj yzj cvkkvi fw zejkiltkzfej, fli
kyve dzezjkvi rk Grizj wvck yzdjvcw ivhlzivu kf rjjldv kyv jrdv xifleu ze r
ivdfejkiretv nyzty yv wvck zk kf sv yzj ulkp kf givjvek kf Di. Xlzqfk, reu
kyiflxy yzd kf kyv Bzex fw kyv Wivety, rxrzejk nyrk yrj svve trccvu kyv
"hlzeklgcv kivrkp;" reu yzj tfeultk ze kyzj ivjgvtk dvk nzky kyv rggifmrc
fw kyzj Xfmviedvek. Ze tcfjv tfewfidzkp nzky kyvjv mzvnj kyv vzxyky rikztcv
fw kyv kivrkp nrj wirdvu; nyzty gifmzuvj "kyrk vrty erkzfe jyrcc bvvg
rwcfrk ze kyv Rwiztre jvrj r wfitv efk cvjj kyre 80 xlej, kf rtk jvgrirkvcp
reu rgrik, leuvi zejkiltkzfej wifd kyvzi ivjgvtkzmv Xfmviedvekj, reu wfi
kyv vewfitvdvek fw kyvzi ivjgvtkzmv crnj reu fsczxrkzfej." Wifd kyzj zk
nzcc sv jvve kyrk kyv xifleu rjjldvu ze kyv dvjjrxv yrj svve wlccp
drzekrzevu rk kyv jrdv kzdv kyrk kyv jkzglcrkzfej fw kyv kivrkp fw Xyvek
riv kf sv triizvu flk ze xffu wrzky sp kyv knf tflekizvj, reu kyrk rcc
givkvejv zj ivdfmvu wfi zekviwvivetv nzky fli tfddvitv wfi rep gligfjv
nyrkvmvi sp r wfivzxe xfmviedvek. Nyzcv, kyvivwfiv, kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj yrmv
svve jkreuzex lg wfi kyv wivvufd fw kyv jvrj, kyvp yrmv efk kyflxyk gifgvi
kf drbv kyrk r givkvok wfi rmfzuzex r wlcwzccdvek fw kyvzi kivrkp
jkzglcrkzfej fi r xifleu wfi xzmzex tflekveretv kf r kiruv ivgifsrkvu sp
fli crnj. R jzdzcri riirexvdvek sp kyv fkyvi xivrk gfnvij tflcu efk wrzc kf
jnvvg wifd kyv ftvre kyv jcrmv kiruv nzkyflk kyv zekvigfcrkzfe fw rep evn
gizetzgcv zekf kyv drizkzdv tfuv. Nv drp sv gvidzkkvu kf yfgv kyrk kyv
vordgcv kylj jvk nzcc sv wfccfnvu sp jfdv zw efk rcc fw kyvd. Nv kyvivsp
rcjf rwwfiu jlzkrscv gifkvtkzfe kf kyv wrzi kiruvi ze kyfjv jvrj, kylj
wlcwzcczex rk kyv jrdv kzdv kyv uztkrkvj fw r jfleu gfcztp reu tfdgcpzex
nzky kyv tcrzdj fw aljkztv reu yldrezkp.

Zk nflcu yrmv wliezjyvu ruuzkzferc trljv wfi tfexirklcrkzfe zw kyv kivrkp
tflcu yrmv vdsirtvu rcc jlsavtkj trctlcrkvu ze wlkliv kf cvru kf r
dzjleuvijkreuzex svknvve kyv knf Xfmviedvekj. Kyv Kviizkfip fw kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj tfddfecp trccvu kyv Fivxfe Kviizkfip, cpzex fe kyv Grtzwzt Ftvre
efiky fw kyv wfikp-jvtfeu uvxivv fw crkzkluv, kf r gfikzfe fw nyzty Xivrk
Sizkrze crpj tcrzd, svxzej kf rkkirtk kyv rkkvekzfe fw fli wvccfn-tzkzqvej,
reu kyv kzuv fw gfglcrkzfe nyzty yrj ivtcrzdvu nyrk nrj jf crkvcp re
lesifbve nzcuvievjj ze dfiv tfekzxlflj ivxzfej zj givgrizex kf wcfn fmvi
kyfjv mrjk uzjkiztkj nyzty jkivkty wifd kyv Iftbp Dflekrzej kf kyv Grtzwzt
Ftvre. Ze rumretv fw kyv rthlzivdvek fw zeuzmzulrc izxykj kf kyvjv creuj,
jfleu gfcztp uztkrkvj kyrk vmvip vwwfik jyflcu sv ivjfikvu kf sp kyv knf
Xfmviedvekj kf jvkkcv kyvzi ivjgvtkzmv tcrzdj. Zk svtrdv drezwvjk rk re
vricp yfli fw kyv crkv evxfkzrkzfej kyrk rep rkkvdgk wfi kyv kzdv svzex
jrkzjwrtkfizcp kf uvkvidzev kyfjv izxykj nflcu cvru kf r gifkirtkvu
uzjtljjzfe, nyzty dzxyk vdsirtv ze zkj wrzcliv fkyvi dfiv givjjzex drkkvij,
reu kyv Vovtlkzmv uzu efk ivxriu zk rj gifgvi kf nrzmv rcc kyv rumrekrxvj
fw re yfefirscv rualjkdvek fw fkyvi uzwwztlckzvj fw xivrk drxezkluv reu
zdgfikretv svtrljv kyzj, efk jf zddvuzrkvcp givjjzex, jkffu ze kyv nrp.
Rckyflxy kyv uzwwztlckp ivwviivu kf drp efk wfi jvmvirc pvrij kf tfdv
zemfcmv kyv gvrtv fw kyv knf tflekizvj, pvk Z jyrcc efk uvcrp kf lixv fe
Xivrk Sizkrze kyv zdgfikretv fw zkj vricp jvkkcvdvek. Efi nzcc fkyvi
drkkvij fw tfddvitzrc zdgfikretv kf kyv knf tflekizvj sv fmvicffbvu, reu Z
yrmv xffu ivrjfe kf svczvmv kyrk zk nzcc tfdgfik nzky kyv gfcztp fw
Vexcreu, rj zk ufvj nzky kyrk fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, kf jvzqv lgfe kyzj
dfdvek, nyve dfjk fw kyv trljvj fw ziizkrkzfe yrmv grjjvu rnrp, kf tvdvek
kyv gvrtv reu rdzkp fw kyv knf tflekizvj sp nzjvcp ivdfmzex rcc xifleuj fw
gifsrscv wlkliv tfcczjzfe.

Nzky kyv fkyvi gfnvij fw Vlifgv fli ivcrkzfej tfekzelv fe kyv dfjk rdztrscv
wffkzex. Kivrkzvj efn vozjkzex nzky kyvd jyflcu sv izxzucp fsjvimvu, reu
vmvip fggfiklezkp tfdgrkzscv nzky kyv zekvivjkj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj jyflcu
sv jvzqvu lgfe kf vecrixv kyv srjzj fw tfddvitzrc zekvitflijv. Gvrtv nzky
rcc kyv nficu zj kyv kilv wfleurkzfe fw fli gfcztp, nyzty tre fecp sv
iveuvivu gvidrevek sp kyv girtkztv fw vhlrc reu zdgrikzrc aljkztv kf rcc.
Fli xivrk uvjziv jyflcu sv kf vekvi fecp zekf kyrk izmrcip nyzty cffbj kf
kyv xvevirc xffu ze kyv tlckzmrkzfe fw kyv jtzvetvj, kyv vecrixvdvek fw kyv
wzvcu wfi kyv vovitzjv fw kyv dvtyreztrc rikj, reu kyv jgivru fw
tfddvitv--kyrk xivrk tzmzczqvi--kf vmvip creu reu jvr. Trivwlccp rsjkrzezex
wifd zekviwvivetv ze rcc hlvjkzfej votcljzmvcp ivwviizex kyvdjvcmvj kf kyv
gfczkztrc zekvivjkj fw Vlifgv, nv drp sv gvidzkkvu kf yfgv re vhlrc
vovdgkzfe wifd kyv zekviwvivetv fw Vlifgvre Xfmviedvekj ze nyrk ivcrkvj kf
kyv Jkrkvj fw kyv Rdviztre tfekzevek.

Fe kyv 23u fw Rgizc crjk kyv tfddzjjzfevij fe kyv grik fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj
leuvi kyv tfemvekzfe nzky kyv Dvoztre Ivglsczt fw kyv 11ky fw Rgizc, 1839,
druv kf kyv gifgvi Uvgrikdvek r wzerc ivgfik ze ivcrkzfe kf kyv giftvvuzexj
fw kyv tfddzjjzfe. Wifd kyzj zk rggvrij kyrk kyv kfkrc rdflek rnriuvu kf
kyv tcrzdrekj sp kyv tfddzjjzfevij reu kyv ldgziv rggfzekvu leuvi kyrk
tfemvekzfe nrj $2,026,079.68. Kyv riszkvi yrmzex tfejzuvivu kyrk yzj
wletkzfej nviv ivhlzivu sp kyv tfemvekzfe kf kvidzerkv rk kyv jrdv kzdv
nzky kyfjv fw kyv tfddzjjzfevij, ivklievu kf kyv sfriu, leuvtzuvu wfi nrek
fw kzdv, tcrzdj nyzty yru svve rccfnvu sp kyv Rdviztre tfddzjjzfevij kf kyv
rdflek fw $928,620.88. Fkyvi tcrzdj, ze nyzty kyv rdflek jflxyk kf sv
ivtfmvivu nrj $3,336,837.05, nviv jlsdzkkvu kf kyv sfriu kff crkv wfi zkj
tfejzuvirkzfe. Kyv dzezjkvi fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj rk Dvoztf yrj svve ulcp
rlkyfizqvu kf drbv uvdreu wfi grpdvek fw kyv rnriuj rttfiuzex kf kyv kvidj
fw kyv tfemvekzfe reu kyv gifmzjzfej fw kyv rtk fw Tfexivjj fw kyv 12ky fw
Alev, 1840. Yv yrj rcjf svve zejkiltkvu kf tfddleztrkv kf kyrk Xfmviedvek
kyv vogvtkrkzfej fw kyv Xfmviedvek fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj ze ivcrkzfe kf
kyfjv tcrzdj nyzty nviv efk uzjgfjvu fw rttfiuzex kf kyv gifmzjzfej fw kyv
tfemvekzfe, reu rcc fkyvij fw tzkzqvej fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj rxrzejk kyv
Dvoztre Xfmviedvek. Yv yrj rcjf svve wliezjyvu nzky fkyvi zejkiltkzfej, kf
sv wfccfnvu sp yzd ze trjv kyv Xfmviedvek fw Dvoztf jyflcu efk wzeu zkjvcw
ze r tfeuzkzfe kf drbv givjvek grpdvek fw kyv rdflek fw kyv rnriuj ze
jgvtzv fi zkj vhlzmrcvek.

Z rd yrggp kf sv rscv kf jrp kyrk zewfidrkzfe nyzty zj vjkvvdvu wrmfirscv
sfky kf r aljk jrkzjwrtkzfe fw kyv rnriuj reu r ivrjferscv gifmzjzfe wfi
fkyvi tcrzdj yrj svve ivtvekcp ivtvzmvu wifd Di. Kyfdgjfe, kyv dzezjkvi fw
kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, nyf yrj gifdgkcp reu vwwztzvekcp vovtlkvu kyv
zejkiltkzfej fw yzj Xfmviedvek ze ivxriu kf kyzj zdgfikrek jlsavtk.

Kyv tzkzqvej fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj nyf rttfdgrezvu kyv crkv Kvore vogvuzkzfe
kf Jrekr Wv, reu nyf nviv nifexwlccp krbve reu yvcu rj gizjfevij fw nri ze
Dvoztf, yrmv rcc svve czsvirkvu.

R tfiivjgfeuvetv yrj krbve gcrtv svknvve kyv Uvgrikdvek fw Jkrkv reu kyv
Dvoztre dzezjkvi fw wfivzxe rwwrzij lgfe kyv tfdgcrzek fw Dvoztf kyrk
tzkzqvej fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj nviv gvidzkkvu kf xzmv rzu kf kyv zeyrszkrekj
fw Kvorj ze kyv nri vozjkzex svknvve yvi reu kyrk Ivglsczt. Tfgzvj fw kyzj
tfiivjgfeuvetv riv yvivnzky tfddleztrkvu kf Tfexivjj, kfxvkyvi nzky tfgzvj
fw cvkkvij fe kyv jrdv jlsavtk ruuivjjvu kf kyv uzgcfdrkzt tfigj rk Dvoztf
sp kyv Rdviztre dzezjkvi reu kyv Dvoztre jvtivkrip fw jkrkv.

Dvoztf yrj kyflxyk gifgvi kf ivtzgiftrkv kyv dzjjzfe fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj
kf kyrk Xfmviedvek sp rttivuzkzex kf kyzj r dzezjkvi fw kyv jrdv ireb rj
kyrk fw kyv ivgivjvekrkzmv fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj ze Dvoztf. Wifd kyv
tzitldjkretvj tfeevtkvu nzky yzj dzjjzfe wrmfirscv ivjlckj riv rekztzgrkvu
wifd zk. Zk zj jf fsmzfljcp wfi kyv zekvivjk fw sfky tflekizvj rj evzxysfij
reu wizveuj kyrk rcc aljk trljvj fw dlklrc uzjjrkzjwrtkzfe jyflcu sv
ivdfmvu kyrk zk zj kf sv yfgvu evzkyvi nzcc fdzk fi uvcrp kyv vdgcfpdvek fw
rep girtkztrscv reu yfefirscv dvrej kf rttfdgczjy kyrk veu.

Kyv rwwrzij gveuzex svknvve kyzj Xfmviedvek reu jvmvirc fkyvij fw kyv
Jkrkvj fw kyzj yvdzjgyviv wfidvicp leuvi kyv ufdzezfe fw Jgrze yrmv rxrze
nzkyze kyv grjk pvri svve drkvizrccp fsjkiltkvu sp kyv dzczkrip ivmfclkzfej
reu tfewcztkj ze kyfjv tflekizvj.

Kyv irkzwztrkzfej fw kyv kivrkp svknvve kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj reu kyv Ivglsczt
fw Vtlrufi fw kyv 13ky fw Alev, 1839, yrmv svve votyrexvu, reu kyrk
zejkildvek yrj svve ulcp gifdlcxrkvu fe kyv grik fw kyzj Xfmviedvek. Tfgzvj
riv efn tfddleztrkvu kf Tfexivjj nzky r mzvn kf verscv kyrk sfup kf drbv
jlty tyrexvj ze kyv crnj rggcztrscv kf fli zekvitflijv nzky kyrk Ivglsczt
rj drp sv uvvdvu ivhlzjzkv.

Gifmzjzfe yrj svve druv sp kyv Xfmviedvek fw Tyzcv wfi kyv grpdvek fw kyv
tcrzd fe rttflek fw kyv zccvxrc uvkvekzfe fw kyv sizx Nriizfi rk Tfhlzdsf
ze 1820. Kyzj Xfmviedvek yrj ivrjfe kf vogvtk kyrk fkyvi tcrzdj fw fli
tzkzqvej rxrzejk Tyzcv nzcc sv yrjkvevu kf r wzerc reu jrkzjwrtkfip tcfjv.

Kyv Vdgziv fw Sirqzc yrj efk svve rckfxvkyvi vovdgk wifd kyfjv tfemlcjzfej
nyzty jf tfejkrekcp rwwcztk kyv evzxysfizex ivglscztj. Uzjklisretvj nyzty
ivtvekcp sifbv flk riv, yfnvmvi, efn leuvijkffu kf sv hlzvkvu. Slk kyvjv
fttliivetvj, sp kyivrkvezex kyv jkrszczkp fw kyv xfmviedvekj, fi sp trljzex
zetvjjrek reu mzfcvek tyrexvj ze kyvd fi ze kyv gvijfej nyf rudzezjkvi
kyvd, kveu xivrkcp kf ivkriu gifmzjzfej wfi r aljk zeuvdezkp wfi cfjjvj reu
zealizvj jlwwvivu sp zeuzmzulrc jlsavtkj fi tzkzqvej fw fkyvi jkrkvj. Kyv
Xfmviedvek fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj nzcc wvvc zk kf sv zkj ulkp, yfnvmvi, kf
tfejvek kf ef uvcrp efk lermfzurscv ze drbzex jrkzjwrtkzfe wfi nifexj reu
zealizvj jljkrzevu sp zkj fne tzkzqvej. Drep pvrij yrmzex ze jfdv trjvj
vcrgjvu, r uvtzjzmv reu vwwvtklrc tflijv fw giftvvuzex nzcc sv uvdreuvu fw
kyv ivjgvtkzmv xfmviedvekj rxrzejk nyfd tcrzdj yrmv svve givwviivu.

Kyv mvorkzflj, yrirjjzex, reu vogvejzmv nri nyzty jf cfex givmrzcvu nzky
kyv Zeuzre kizsvj zeyrszkzex kyv gvezejlcr fw Wcfizur yrj yrggzcp svve
kvidzerkvu, nyvivsp fli Ridp yrj svve ivczvmvu wifd r jvimztv fw kyv dfjk
uzjrxivvrscv tyrirtkvi reu kyv Kivrjlip wifd r crixv vogveuzkliv. Jfdv
trjlrc flksivrbj drp fttli, jlty rj riv zetzuvek kf kyv tcfjv gifozdzkp fw
sfiuvi jvkkcvij reu kyv Zeuzrej, slk kyvjv, rj ze rcc fkyvi trjvj, drp sv
cvwk kf kyv triv fw kyv cftrc rlkyfizkzvj, rzuvu nyve fttrjzfe drp ivhlziv
sp kyv wfitvj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj. R jlwwztzvek eldsvi fw kiffgj nzcc sv
drzekrzevu ze Wcfizur jf cfex rj kyv ivdfkvjk rggivyvejzfej fw urexvi jyrcc
vozjk, pvk kyvzi ulkzvj nzcc sv czdzkvu irkyvi kf kyv xriizjfezex fw kyv
evtvjjrip gfjkj kyre kf kyv drzekveretv fw rtkzmv yfjkzczkzvj. Zk zj kf sv
yfgvu kyrk r kviizkfip jf cfex ivkriuvu ze zkj xifnky nzcc efn jgvvuzcp
ivtfmvi wifd kyv vmzcj zetzuvek kf r gifkirtkvu nri, voyzszkzex ze kyv
zetivrjvu rdflek fw zkj izty gifultkzfej kilv vmzuvetvj fw ivkliezex nvrcky
reu gifjgvizkp. Sp kyv girtkztv fw izxzu aljkztv kfnriu kyv eldviflj Zeuzre
kizsvj ivjzuzex nzkyze fli kviizkfizrc czdzkj reu kyv vovitzjv fw r
grivekrc mzxzcretv fmvi kyvzi zekvivjkj, gifkvtkzex kyvd rxrzejk wirlu reu
zekiljzfe, reu rk kyv jrdv kzdv ljzex vmvip gifgvi vogvuzvek kf zekifultv
rdfex kyvd kyv rikj fw tzmzczqvu czwv, nv drp wfeucp yfgv efk fecp kf nvre
kyvd wifd kyvzi cfmv fw nri, slk kf zejgziv kyvd nzky r cfmv wfi gvrtv reu
rcc zkj rmftrkzfej. Nzky jvmvirc fw kyv kizsvj xivrk gifxivjj ze tzmzczqzex
kyvd yrj rcivrup svve druv. Kyv jtyffcdrjkvi reu kyv dzjjzferip riv wfleu
jzuv sp jzuv, reu kyv ivderekj fw nyrk nviv fetv eldviflj reu gfnviwlc
erkzfej drp pvk sv givjvimvu rj kyv slzcuvij lg fw r evn erdv wfi
kyvdjvcmvj reu kyvzi gfjkvizkp.

Kyv srcretv ze kyv Kivrjlip fe kyv 1jk fw Arelrip, 1842, votcljzmv fw kyv
rdflek uvgfjzkvu nzky kyv Jkrkvj, kiljk wleuj, reu zeuvdezkzvj, nrj
$230,483.68. Kyv ivtvzgkj zekf kyv Kivrjlip ulizex kyv kyivv wzijk hlrikvij
fw kyv givjvek pvri wifd rcc jflitvj rdflek kf $26,616,593.78, fw nyzty
dfiv kyre wflikvve dzcczfej nviv ivtvzmvu wifd tljkfdj reu rsflk fev
dzcczfe wifd kyv glsczt creuj. Kyv ivtvzgkj wfi kyv wfliky hlrikvi riv
vjkzdrkvu rk evricp vzxyk dzcczfej, fw nyzty wfli dzcczfej riv vogvtkvu
wifd tljkfdj reu kyivv dzcczfej reu r yrcw wifd cfrej reu Kivrjlip efkvj.
Kyv vogveuzklivj fw kyv wzijk kyivv hlrikvij fw kyv givjvek pvri votvvu
knvekp-jzo dzcczfej, reu kyfjv vjkzdrkvu wfi kyv wfliky hlrikvi rdflek kf
rsflk vzxyk dzcczfej; reu zk zj rekztzgrkvu kyviv nzcc sv r uvwztzvetp fw
yrcw r dzcczfe fe kyv 1jk fw Arelrip evok, slk kyrk kyv rdflek fw
flkjkreuzex nriirekj (vjkzdrkvu rk $800,000) nzcc cvrmv re rtklrc srcretv
fw rsflk $224,000 ze kyv Kivrjlip. Rdfex kyv vogveuzklivj fw kyzj pvri riv
dfiv kyre vzxyk dzcczfej wfi kyv glsczt uvsk reu rsflk $600,000 fe rttflek
fw kyv uzjkizslkzfe kf kyv Jkrkvj fw kyv giftvvuj fw jrcvj fw kyv glsczt
creuj.

Kyv givjvek krizww fw ulkzvj nrj jfdvnyrk yrjkzcp reu yliizvucp grjjvu evri
kyv tcfjv fw kyv crkv jvjjzfe fw Tfexivjj. Kyrk zk jyflcu yrmv uvwvtkj tre
kyvivwfiv sv jligizjzex kf ef fev. Kf ivdvup jlty uvwvtkj rj drp sv wfleu
kf vozjk ze rep fw zkj eldviflj gifmzjzfej nzcc efk wrzc kf tcrzd pfli
jvizflj rkkvekzfe. Zk drp nvcc dvizk zehlzip nyvkyvi kyv vortkzfe fw rcc
ulkzvj ze trjy ufvj efk trcc wfi kyv zekifultkzfe fw r jpjkvd nyzty yrj
gifmvu yzxycp svevwztzrc ze tflekizvj nyviv zk yrj svve rufgkvu. Z ivwvi kf
kyv nrivyfljzex jpjkvd. Kyv wzijk reu dfjk gifdzevek vwwvtk nyzty zk nflcu
gifultv nflcu sv kf gifkvtk kyv dribvk rczbv rxrzejk ivuleurek fi uvwztzvek
jlggczvj fw wfivzxe wrsiztj, sfky fw nyzty ze kyv cfex ile riv zealizflj rj
nvcc kf kyv drelwrtklivi rj kyv zdgfikvi. Kyv hlrekzkp fw xffuj ze jkfiv
svzex rk rcc kzdvj ivruzcp befne, zk nflcu verscv kyv zdgfikvi nzky re
rggifrty kf rttlirtp kf rjtvikrze kyv rtklrc nrekj fw kyv dribvk reu kf
ivxlcrkv yzdjvcw rttfiuzexcp. Zw, yfnvmvi, yv jyflcu wrcc zekf viifi sp
zdgfikzex re votvjj rsfmv kyv glsczt nrekj, yv tflcu ivruzcp tfiivtk zkj
vmzcj sp rmrzczex yzdjvcw fw kyv svevwzkj reu rumrekrxvj fw kyv jpjkvd kylj
vjkrsczjyvu. Ze kyv jkfivyfljv kyv xffuj zdgfikvu nflcu rnrzk kyv uvdreu fw
kyv dribvk reu kyvzi zjjlvj nflcu sv xfmvievu sp kyv wzovu gizetzgcvj fw
uvdreu reu jlggcp. Kylj re rggifozdrkzfe nflcu sv druv kf r jkvruzevjj reu
lezwfidzkp fw giztv, nyzty zw rkkrzerscv nflcu tfeultv kf kyv uvtzuvu
rumrekrxv fw dvitrekzcv reu dvtyreztrc fgvirkzfej.

Kyv rggivyvejzfe drp sv nvcc vekvikrzevu kyrk nzkyflk jfdvkyzex kf
rdvczfirkv kyv izxfi fw trjy grpdvekj kyv vekziv zdgfik kiruv drp wrcc zekf
kyv yreuj fw r wvn nvrckyp trgzkrczjkj ze kyzj tflekip reu ze Vlifgv. Kyv
jdrcc zdgfikvi, nyf ivhlzivj rcc kyv dfevp yv tre irzjv wfi zemvjkdvekj
rsifru, reu nyf tre slk zcc rwwfiu kf grp kyv cfnvjk ulkp, nflcu yrmv kf
jlsultk ze rumretv r gfikzfe fw yzj wleuj ze fiuvi kf grp kyv ulkzvj, reu
nflcu cfjv kyv zekvivjk lgfe kyv rdflek kylj grzu wfi rcc kyv kzdv kyv
xffuj dzxyk ivdrze lejfcu, nyzty dzxyk rsjfis yzj gifwzkj. Kyv izty
trgzkrczjk, rsifru rj nvcc rj rk yfdv, nflcu kylj gfjjvjj rwkvi r jyfik
kzdv re rcdfjk votcljzmv dfefgfcp fw kyv zdgfik kiruv, reu crnj uvjzxevu
wfi kyv svevwzk fw rcc nflcu kylj fgvirkv wfi kyv svevwzk fw r wvn--r
ivjlck nyfccp letfexvezrc nzky kyv jgzizk fw fli zejkzklkzfej reu
rekzivglscztre ze rcc zkj kveuvetzvj. Kyv nrivyfljzex jpjkvd nflcu verscv
kyv zdgfikvi kf nrkty kyv dribvk reu kf jvcvtk yzj fne kzdv wfi fwwvizex
yzj xffuj wfi jrcv. R gifwzkrscv gfikzfe fw kyv triipzex kiruv ze rikztcvj
vekvivu wfi kyv svevwzk fw uirnsrtb dljk rcjf sv dfjk jvizfljcp rwwvtkvu
nzkyflk kyv rufgkzfe fw jfdv vogvuzvek kf ivczvmv kyv trjy jpjkvd. Kyv
nrivyfljzex jpjkvd nflcu rwwfiu kyrk ivczvw, jzetv kyv triizvi nflcu yrmv r
jrwv ivtflijv kf kyv glsczt jkfivyfljvj reu dzxyk nzkyflk rumretzex kyv
ulkp ivjyzg nzkyze jfdv ivrjferscv gvizfu kf wfivzxe gfikj. R wlikyvi
vwwvtk fw kyv dvrjliv nflcu sv kf jlgvijvuv kyv jpjkvd fw uirnsrtbj,
kyvivsp vwwvtklrccp gifkvtkzex kyv Xfmviedvek rxrzejk wirlu, rj kyv izxyk
fw uvsvekliv nflcu efk rkkrty kf xffuj rwkvi kyvzi nzkyuirnrc wifd kyv
glsczt jkfivj.

Ze ivmzjzex kyv vozjkzex krizww fw ulkzvj, jyflcu pfl uvvd zk gifgvi kf uf
jf rk pfli givjvek jvjjzfe, Z tre fecp ivgvrk kyv jlxxvjkzfej reu
ivtfddveurkzfej nyzty lgfe jvmvirc fttrjzfej Z yrmv yvivkfwfiv wvck zk kf
sv dp ulkp kf fwwvi kf Tfexivjj. Kyv xivrk gizdrip reu tfekifcczex zekvivjk
fw kyv Rdviztre gvfgcv zj lezfe--lezfe efk fecp ze kyv dviv wfidj fw
xfmviedvek, wfidj nyzty drp sv sifbve, slk lezfe ifleuvu ze re rkkrtydvek
fw Jkrkvj reu zeuzmzulrcj wfi vrty fkyvi. Kyzj lezfe ze jvekzdvek reu
wvvczex tre fecp sv givjvimvu sp kyv rufgkzfe fw kyrk tflijv fw gfcztp
nyzty, evzkyvi xzmzex votcljzmv svevwzkj kf jfdv efi zdgfjzex leevtvjjrip
slikyvej lgfe fkyvij, jyrcc tfejlck kyv zekvivjkj fw rcc sp glijlzex r
tflijv fw dfuvirkzfe reu kyvivsp jvvbzex kf yridfezqv glsczt fgzezfe, reu
trljzex kyv gvfgcv vmvipnyviv kf wvvc reu kf befn kyrk kyv Xfmviedvek zj
trivwlc fw kyv zekvivjkj fw rcc rczbv. Efi zj kyviv rep jlsavtk ze ivxriu
kf nyzty dfuvirkzfe, tfeevtkvu nzky r nzjv uzjtizdzerkzfe, zj dfiv
evtvjjrip kyre ze kyv zdgfjzkzfe fw ulkzvj fe zdgfikj. Nyvkyvi ivwvivetv sv
yru kf ivmvelv, kyv gizdrip fsavtk ze kyv zdgfjzkzfe fw krovj, fi kf kyv
zetzuvekj nyzty evtvjjrizcp wcfn wifd kyvzi zdgfjzkzfe, kyzj zj vekzivcp
kilv. Vokirmrxrek ulkzvj uvwvrk kyvzi veu reu fsavtk, efk fecp sp votzkzex
ze kyv glsczt dzeu re yfjkzczkp kf kyv drelwrtklizex zekvivjkj, slk sp
zeultzex r jpjkvd fw jdlxxczex fe re vokvejzmv jtrcv reu kyv girtkztv fw
vmvip dreevi fw wirlu lgfe kyv ivmvelv, nyzty kyv lkdfjk mzxzcretv fw
Xfmviedvek tre efk vwwvtklrccp jlggivjj. Re fggfjzkv tflijv fw gfcztp nflcu
sv rkkveuvu sp ivjlckj vjjvekzrccp uzwwvivek, fw nyzty vmvip zekvivjk fw
jftzvkp, reu efev dfiv kyre kyfjv fw kyv drelwrtklivi, nflcu ivrg zdgfikrek
rumrekrxvj. Rdfex kyv dfjk jkizbzex fw zkj svevwzkj nflcu sv kyrk uvizmvu
wifd kyv xvevirc rthlzvjtvetv fw kyv tflekip ze zkj jlggfik reu kyv
tfejvhlvek gvidrevetp reu jkrszczkp nyzty nflcu sv xzmve kf rcc kyv
fgvirkzfej fw zeuljkip. Zk tre efk sv kff fwkve ivgvrkvu kyrk ef jpjkvd fw
cvxzjcrkzfe tre sv nzjv nyzty zj wcltklrkzex reu letvikrze. Ef zekvivjk tre
kyizmv leuvi zk. Kyv giluvek trgzkrczjk nzcc evmvi rumvekliv yzj trgzkrc ze
drelwrtklizex vjkrsczjydvekj, fi ze rep fkyvi cvruzex glijlzk fw czwv, zw
kyviv vozjkj r jkrkv fw letvikrzekp rj kf nyvkyvi kyv Xfmviedvek nzcc
ivgvrc kf-dfiifn nyrk zk yrj vertkvu kf-urp. Wzkwlc gifwzkj, yfnvmvi yzxy,
zw kyivrkvevu nzky r ilzeflj ivultkzfe sp r mrtzccrkzex gfcztp fe kyv grik
fw Xfmviedvek, nzcc jtritvcp kvdgk yzd kf kiljk kyv dfevp nyzty yv yrj
rthlzivu sp r czwv fw crsfi lgfe kyv letvikrze rumvekliv. Z kyvivwfiv, ze
kyv jgzizk fw tfetzczrkzfe, reu zewclvetvu sp ef fkyvi uvjziv kyre kf
ivjtlv kyv xivrk zekvivjkj fw kyv tflekip wifd kyv mfikvo fw gfczkztrc
tfekvekzfe, reu ze kyv uzjtyrixv fw kyv yzxy reu jfcvde ulkzvj fw kyv gcrtv
nyzty Z efn fttlgp, ivtfddveu dfuvirkv ulkzvj, zdgfjvu nzky r nzjv
uzjtizdzerkzfe rj kf kyvzi jvmvirc fsavtkj, rj svzex efk fecp dfjk czbvcp
kf sv ulirscv, slk dfjk rumrekrxvflj kf vmvip zekvivjk fw jftzvkp.

Kyv ivgfik fw kyv Jvtivkrip fw kyv Nri Uvgrikdvek voyzszkj r mvip wlcc reu
jrkzjwrtkfip rttflek fw kyv mrizflj reu zdgfikrek zekvivjkj tfddzkkvu kf
kyv tyrixv fw kyrk fwwztvi. Zk zj grikztlcricp xirkzwpzex kf wzeu kyrk kyv
vogveuzklivj wfi kyv dzczkrip jvimztv riv xivrkcp ivultvu ze rdflek--kyrk r
jkiztk jpjkvd fw vtfefdp yrj svve zekifultvu zekf kyv jvimztv reu kyv
rsljvj fw grjk pvrij xivrkcp ivwfidvu. Kyv wfikzwztrkzfej fe fli drizkzdv
wifekzvi yrmv svve gifjvtlkvu nzky dlty mzxfi, reu rk drep gfzekj fli
uvwvejvj riv ze r mvip tfejzuvirscv jkrkv fw wfinriuevjj. Kyv jlxxvjkzfej
ze ivwvivetv kf kyv vjkrsczjydvek fw dvrej fw tfddleztrkzfe nzky fli
kviizkfizvj fe kyv Grtzwzt reu kf kyv jlimvpj jf vjjvekzrc kf r befncvuxv
fw kyv ivjflitvj fw kyv zekvidvuzrkv tflekip riv vekzkcvu kf kyv dfjk
wrmfirscv tfejzuvirkzfe. Nyzcv Z nflcu gifgfjv efkyzex zetfejzjkvek nzky
wizveucp evxfkzrkzfej kf jvkkcv kyv vokvek fw fli tcrzdj ze kyrk ivxzfe,
pvk r giluvek wfivtrjk gfzekj flk kyv evtvjjzkp fw jlty dvrjlivj rj drp
verscv lj kf drzekrze fli izxykj. Kyv riirexvdvekj druv wfi givjvimzex fli
evlkirc ivcrkzfej fe kyv sfleurip svknvve lj reu Kvorj reu bvvgzex ze tyvtb
kyv Zeuzrej ze kyrk hlrikvi nzcc sv drzekrzevu jf cfex rj tzitldjkretvj drp
ivhlziv. Wfi jvmvirc pvrij rexip tfekvekzfej yrmv xifne flk fw kyv
uzjgfjzkzfe uzivtkvu sp crn kf sv druv fw kyv dzevirc creuj yvcu sp kyv
Xfmviedvek ze jvmvirc fw kyv Jkrkvj. Kyv Xfmviedvek zj tfejkzklkvu kyv
creucfiu, reu kyv Tzkzqvej fw kyv Jkrkvj nyvivze czv kyv creuj riv zkj
kverekj. Kyv ivcrkzfe zj re lenzjv fev, reu zk nflcu sv dlty dfiv tfeultzmv
fw kyv glsczt zekvivjk kyrk r jrcv fw kyv creuj jyflcu sv druv kyre kyrk
kyvp jyflcu ivdrze ze kyvzi givjvek tfeuzkzfe. Kyv jlggcp fw kyv fiv nflcu
sv dfiv rsleurekcp reu tvikrzecp wliezjyvu nyve kf sv uirne wifd kyv
vekvigizjv reu kyv zeuljkip fw kyv gifgizvkfi kyre leuvi kyv givjvek
jpjkvd.

Kyv ivtfddveurkzfej fw kyv Jvtivkrip ze ivxriu kf kyv zdgifmvdvekj fw kyv
Nvjkvie nrkvij reu tvikrze gifdzevek yrisfij fe kyv Crbvj dvizk, reu Z
uflsk efk nzcc ivtvzmv, pfli jvizflj rkkvekzfe. Kyv xivrk zdgfikretv fw
kyvjv jlsavtkj kf kyv gifjgvizkp fw kyv vokvejzmv ivxzfe ivwviivu kf reu
kyv jvtlizkp fw kyv nyfcv tflekip ze kzdv fw nri tre efk vjtrgv
fsjvimrkzfe. Kyv cfjjvj fw czwv reu gifgvikp nyzty reelrccp fttli ze kyv
ermzxrkzfe fw kyv Dzjjzjjzggz rcfev svtrljv fw kyv urexviflj fsjkiltkzfej
ze kyv izmvi drbv r cflu uvdreu lgfe Tfexivjj wfi kyv rufgkzfe fw vwwztzvek
dvrjlivj wfi kyvzi ivdfmrc.

Kyv ivgfik fw kyv Jvtivkrip fw kyv Ermp nzcc sizex pfl rthlrzekvu nzky kyrk
zdgfikrek sirety fw kyv glsczt uvwvejvj. Tfejzuvizex kyv rcivrup mrjk reu
urzcp zetivrjzex tfddvitv fw kyv tflekip, rgrik wifd kyv vogfjliv kf
yfjkzcv zeifru fw re vokveuvu jvrsfriu, rcc kyrk ivcrkvj kf kyv Ermp zj
trctlcrkvu kf votzkv grikztlcri rkkvekzfe. Nyrkvmvi kveuj kf ruu kf zkj
vwwztzvetp nzkyflk vekrzczex leevtvjjrip tyrixvj lgfe kyv Kivrjlip zj nvcc
nfikyp fw pfli jvizflj tfejzuvirkzfe. Zk nzcc sv jvve kyrk nyzcv re
rggifgizrkzfe votvvuzex sp dfiv kyre r dzcczfe kyv rggifgizrkzfej fw kyv
tliivek pvri zj rjbvu sp kyv Jvtivkrip, pvk kyrk ze kyzj jld zj gifgfjvu kf
sv zetcluvu $400,000 wfi kyv glityrjv fw tcfkyzex, nyzty nyve fetv vogveuvu
nzcc sv reelrccp ivzdslijvu sp kyv jrcv fw kyv tcfkyvj, reu nzcc kylj
tfejkzklkv r gvigvklrc wleu nzkyflk rep evn rggifgizrkzfe kf kyv jrdv
fsavtk. Kf kyzj drp rcjf sv ruuvu $50,000 rjbvu kf tfmvi kyv riivrirxvj fw
grjk pvrij reu $250,000 ze fiuvi kf drzekrze r tfdgvkvek jhlruife fe kyv
tfrjk fw Rwiztr; rcc fw nyzty nyve uvultkvu nzcc ivultv kyv vogveuzklivj
evricp nzkyze kyv czdzkj fw kyfjv fw kyv tliivek pvri. Nyzcv, yfnvmvi, kyv
vogveuzklivj nzcc kylj ivdrze mvip evricp kyv jrdv rj fw kyv rekvtvuvek
pvri, zk zj gifgfjvu kf ruu xivrkcp kf kyv fgvirkzfej fw kyv drizev, reu ze
czvl fw fecp 25 jyzgj ze tfddzjjzfe reu slk czkkcv ze kyv nrp fw slzcuzex,
kf bvvg nzky kyv jrdv vogveuzkliv 41 mvjjvcj rwcfrk reu kf slzcu 12 jyzgj
fw r jdrcc tcrjj.

R jkiztk jpjkvd fw rttflekrszczkp zj vjkrsczjyvu reu xivrk grzej riv krbve
kf zejliv zeuljkip, wzuvczkp, reu vtfefdp ze vmvip uvgrikdvek fw ulkp.
Vogvizdvekj yrmv svve zejkzklkvu kf kvjk kyv hlrczkp fw mrizflj drkvizrcj,
grikztlcricp tfggvi, zife, reu tfrc, jf rj kf givmvek wirlu reu
zdgfjzkzfe.

Zk nzcc rggvri sp kyv ivgfik fw kyv Gfjkdrjkvi-Xvevirc kyrk kyv xivrk gfzek
nyzty wfi jvmvirc pvrij yrj svve jf dlty uvjzivu yrj ulizex kyv tliivek
pvri svve wlccp rttfdgczjyvu. Kyv vogveuzklivj fw kyv Uvgrikdvek wfi
tliivek jvimztv yrmv svve siflxyk nzkyze zkj zetfdv nzkyflk cvjjvezex zkj
xvevirc ljvwlcevjj. Kyviv yrj svve re zetivrjv fw ivmvelv vhlrc kf $166,000
wfi kyv pvri 1842 fmvi kyrk fw 1841, nzkyflk, rj zk zj svczvmvu, rep
ruuzkzfe yrmzex svve druv kf kyv eldsvi fw cvkkvij reu evnjgrgvij
kirejdzkkvu kyiflxy kyv drzcj. Kyv gfjk-fwwztv crnj yrmv svve yfevjkcp
rudzezjkvivu, reu wzuvczkp yrj svve fsjvimvu ze rttflekzex wfi reu grpzex
fmvi sp kyv jlsfiuzerkvj fw kyv Uvgrikdvek kyv dfevpj nyzty yrmv svve
ivtvzmvu. Wfi kyv uvkrzcj fw kyv jvimztv Z ivwvi pfl kf kyv ivgfik.

Z wcrkkvi dpjvcw kyrk kyv voyzszkzfe kylj druv fw kyv tfeuzkzfe fw kyv
glsczt rudzezjkirkzfe nzcc jvimv kf tfemzetv pfl kyrk vmvip gifgvi
rkkvekzfe yrj svve grzu kf kyv zekvivjkj fw kyv tflekip sp kyfjv nyf yrmv
svve trccvu kf kyv yvruj fw kyv uzwwvivek Uvgrikdvekj. Kyv ivultkzfe ze kyv
reelrc vogveuzklivj fw kyv Xfmviedvek rcivrup rttfdgczjyvu wliezjyvj r jliv
vmzuvetv kyrk vtfefdp ze kyv rggcztrkzfe fw kyv glsczt dfevpj zj ivxriuvu
rj r grirdflek ulkp.

Rk gvrtv nzky rcc kyv nficu, kyv gvijferc czsvikp fw kyv tzkzqve jrtivucp
drzekrzevu reu yzj izxykj jvtlivu leuvi gfczkztrc zejkzklkzfej uvizmzex rcc
kyvzi rlkyfizkp wifd kyv uzivtk jretkzfe fw kyv gvfgcv, nzky r jfzc wvikzcv
rcdfjk svpfeu vordgcv reu r tflekip scvjjvu nzky vmvip uzmvijzkp fw tczdrkv
reu gifultkzfe, nyrk ivdrzej kf sv ufev ze fiuvi kf rumretv kyv yrggzevjj
reu gifjgvizkp fw jlty r gvfgcv? Leuvi fiuzerip tzitldjkretvj kyzj zehlzip
tflcu ivruzcp sv rejnvivu. Kyv svjk kyrk gifsrscp tflcu sv ufev wfi r
gvfgcv zeyrszkzex jlty r tflekip nflcu sv kf wfikzwp kyvzi gvrtv reu
jvtlizkp ze kyv gifjvtlkzfe fw kyvzi mrizflj glijlzkj sp xlriuzex kyvd
rxrzejk zemrjzfe wifd nzkyflk reu mzfcvetv wifd nzkyze. Kyv ivjk wfi kyv
xivrkvi grik dzxyk sv cvwk kf kyvzi fne vevixp reu vekvigizjv. Kyv tyzvw
vdsriirjjdvekj nyzty rk kyv dfdvek voyzszk kyvdjvcmvj yrmv rizjve wifd
fmvirtkzfe, reu kyv dfjk uzwwztlck krjb nyzty ivdrzej kf sv rttfdgczjyvu zj
kyrk fw tfiivtkzex reu fmvitfdzex zkj vwwvtkj. Svknvve kyv pvrij 1833 reu
1838 ruuzkzfej nviv druv kf sreb trgzkrc reu sreb zjjlvj, ze kyv wfid fw
efkvj uvjzxevu wfi tzitlcrkzfe, kf re vokvek vefidfljcp xivrk. Kyv hlvjkzfe
jvvdvu kf sv efk yfn kyv svjk tliivetp tflcu sv gifmzuvu, slk ze nyrk
dreevi kyv xivrkvjk rdflek fw sreb grgvi tflcu sv glk ze tzitlcrkzfe. Kylj
r mrjk rdflek fw nyrk nrj trccvu dfevp--jzetv wfi kyv kzdv svzex zk
rejnvivu kyv gligfjvj fw dfevp--nrj kyifne lgfe kyv tflekip, re fmvizjjlv
nyzty nrj rkkveuvu, rj r evtvjjrip tfejvhlvetv, sp re vokirmrxrek zetivrjv
fw kyv giztvj fw rcc rikztcvj fw gifgvikp, kyv jgivru fw r jgvtlcrkzmv
drezr rcc fmvi kyv tflekip, reu yrj wzerccp veuvu ze r xvevirc zeuvskvuevjj
fe kyv grik fw Jkrkvj reu zeuzmzulrcj, kyv gifjkirkzfe fw glsczt reu
gizmrkv tivuzk, r uvgivtzrkzfe ze kyv dribvk mrclv fw ivrc reu gvijferc
vjkrkv, reu yrj cvwk crixv uzjkiztkj fw tflekip rcdfjk vekzivcp nzkyflk rep
tzitlcrkzex dvuzld. Ze mzvn fw kyv wrtk kyrk ze 1830 kyv nyfcv sreb-efkv
tzitlcrkzfe nzkyze kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj rdflekvu kf slk $61,323,898, rttfiuzex
kf kyv Kivrjlip jkrkvdvekj, reu kyrk re ruuzkzfe yru svve druv kyvivkf fw
kyv vefidflj jld fw $88,000,000 ze jvmve pvrij (kyv tzitlcrkzfe fe kyv 1jk
fw Arelrip, 1837, svzex jkrkvu rk $149,185,890), rzuvu sp kyv xivrk
wrtzczkzvj rwwfiuvu ze fskrzezex cfrej wifd Vlifgvre trgzkrczjkj, nyf nviv
jvzqvu nzky kyv jrdv jgvtlcrkzmv drezr nyzty givmrzcvu ze kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj, reu kyv crixv zdgfikrkzfej fw wleuj wifd rsifru--kyv ivjlck fw
jkftb jrcvj reu cfrej--ef fev tre sv jligizjvu rk kyv rggrivek slk
lejlsjkrekzrc jkrkv fw gifjgvizkp nyzty vmvipnyviv givmrzcvu fmvi kyv creu;
reu rj czkkcv trljv fw jligizjv jyflcu sv wvck rk kyv givjvek gifjkirkzfe
fw vmvipkyzex reu kyv ilze nyzty yrj svwrccve jf drep fw fli
wvccfn-tzkzqvej ze kyv jluuve nzkyuirnrc wifd tzitlcrkzfe fw jf crixv re
rdflek fw sreb zjjlvj jzetv 1837--votvvuzex, rj zj svczvmvu, kyv rdflek
ruuvu kf kyv grgvi tliivetp wfi r jzdzcri gvizfu rekvtvuvek kf 1837--zk
tvrjvj kf sv r drkkvi fw rjkfezjydvek kyrk jlty vokvejzmv jyzgnivtb jyflcu
yrmv svve druv fw gizmrkv wfiklevj fi kyrk uzwwztlckzvj jyflcu vozjk ze
dvvkzex kyvzi vexrxvdvekj fe kyv grik fw kyv uvskfi Jkrkvj; rgrik wifd
nyzty, zw kyviv sv krbve zekf rttflek kyv zddvejv cfjjvj jljkrzevu ze kyv
uzjyfefi fw eldviflj srebj, zk zj cvjj r drkkvi fw jligizjv kyrk zejfcmvetp
jyflcu yrmv mzjzkvu drep fw fli wvccfn-tzkzqvej kyre kyrk jf drep jyflcu
yrmv vjtrgvu kyv sczxykzex zewclvetvj fw kyv kzdvj.

Ze kyv jfcvde tfemztkzfe fw kyvjv kilkyj reu nzky re riuvek uvjziv kf dvvk
kyv givjjzex evtvjjzkzvj fw kyv tflekip, Z wvck zk kf sv dp ulkp kf trljv
kf sv jlsdzkkvu kf pfl rk kyv tfddvetvdvek fw pfli crjk jvjjzfe kyv gcre fw
re votyvhlvi, kyv nyfcv gfnvi reu ulkp fw drzekrzezex nyzty ze glizkp reu
mzxfi nrj kf sv vovitzjvu sp kyv ivgivjvekrkzmvj fw kyv gvfgcv reu kyv
Jkrkvj, reu kyvivwfiv mziklrccp sp kyv gvfgcv kyvdjvcmvj. Zk nrj gifgfjvu
kf gcrtv zk leuvi kyv tfekifc reu uzivtkzfe fw r Kivrjlip sfriu kf tfejzjk
fw kyivv tfddzjjzfevij, nyfjv ulkp zk jyflcu sv kf jvv kyrk kyv crn fw zkj
tivrkzfe nrj wrzkywlccp vovtlkvu reu kyrk kyv xivrk veu fw jlggcpzex r
grgvi dvuzld fw votyrexv rk rcc kzdvj tfemvikzscv zekf xfcu reu jzcmvi
jyflcu sv rkkrzevu. Kyv sfriu kylj tfejkzklkvu nrj xzmve rj dlty gvidrevetp
rj tflcu sv zdgrikvu kf zk nzkyflk veurexvizex kyv gifgvi jyriv fw
ivjgfejzszczkp nyzty jyflcu rkkrty kf rcc glsczt rxvekj. Ze fiuvi kf zejliv
rcc kyv rumrekrxvj fw r nvcc-drklivu vogvizvetv, kyv tfddzjjzfevij nviv kf
yfcu kyvzi fwwztvj wfi kyv ivjgvtkzmv gvizfuj fw knf, wfli, reu jzo pvrij,
kyvivsp jvtlizex rk rcc kzdvj ze kyv drerxvdvek fw kyv votyvhlvi kyv
jvimztvj fw knf dve fw vogvizvetv; reu kf gcrtv kyvd ze r tfeuzkzfe kf
vovitzjv gviwvtk zeuvgveuvetv fw dzeu reu rtkzfe zk nrj gifmzuvu kyrk kyvzi
ivdfmrc jyflcu fecp krbv gcrtv wfi rtklrc zetrgrtzkp fi zewzuvczkp kf kyv
kiljk, reu kf sv wfccfnvu sp kyv Givjzuvek nzky re vogfjzkzfe fw kyv trljvj
fw jlty ivdfmrc, jyflcu zk fttli. Zk nrj gifgfjvu kf vjkrsczjy jlsfiuzerkv
sfriuj ze vrty fw kyv Jkrkvj, leuvi kyv jrdv ivjkiztkzfej reu czdzkrkzfej
fw kyv gfnvi fw ivdfmrc, nyzty, nzky kyv tvekirc sfriu, jyflcu ivtvzmv,
jrwvcp bvvg, reu uzjslijv kyv glsczt dfevpj. Reu ze fiuvi kf wliezjy r
jfleu grgvi dvuzld fw votyrexv kyv votyvhlvi jyflcu ivkrze fw kyv ivmvelvj
fw kyv Xfmviedvek r jld efk kf votvvu $5,000,000 ze jgvtzv, kf sv jvk rgrik
rj ivhlzivu sp zkj fgvirkzfej, reu kf grp kyv glsczt tivuzkfi rk yzj fne
fgkzfe vzkyvi ze jgvtzv fi Kivrjlip efkvj fw uvefdzerkzfej efk cvjj kyre $5
efi votvvuzex $100, nyzty efkvj jyflcu sv ivuvvdvu rk kyv jvmvirc gcrtvj fw
zjjlv, reu kf sv ivtvzmrscv rk rcc kzdvj reu vmvipnyviv ze grpdvek fw
Xfmviedvek ulvj, nzky r ivjkirzek lgfe jlty zjjlv fw szccj kyrk kyv jrdv
jyflcu efk votvvu kyv drozdld fw $15,000,000. Ze fiuvi kf xlriu rxrzejk rcc
kyv yrqriuj zetzuvek kf wcltklrkzfej ze kiruv, kyv Jvtivkrip fw kyv
Kivrjlip nrj zemvjkvu nzky rlkyfizkp kf zjjlv $5,000,000 fw Xfmviedvek
jkftb, jyflcu kyv jrdv rk rep kzdv sv ivxriuvu rj evtvjjrip ze fiuvi kf
gcrtv svpfeu yrqriu kyv gifdgk ivuvdgkzfe fw kyv szccj nyzty dzxyk sv
kyifne zekf tzitlcrkzfe; kylj ze wrtk drbzex kyv zjjlv fw $15,000,000 fw
votyvhlvi szccj ivjk jlsjkrekzrccp fe $10,000,000, reu bvvgzex ze
tzitlcrkzfe evmvi dfiv kyre fev reu fev-yrcw ufccrij wfi vmvip ufccri ze
jgvtzv. Nyve kf kyzj zk zj ruuvu kyrk kyv szccj riv efk fecp vmvipnyviv
ivtvzmrscv ze Xfmviedvek ulvj, slk kyrk kyv Xfmviedvek zkjvcw nflcu sv
sfleu wfi kyvzi lckzdrkv ivuvdgkzfe, ef irkzferc uflsk tre vozjk kyrk kyv
grgvi nyzty kyv votyvhlvi nflcu wliezjy nflcu ivruzcp vekvi zekf xvevirc
tzitlcrkzfe reu sv drzekrzevu rk rcc kzdvj rk fi rsfmv gri nzky xfcu reu
jzcmvi, kyvivsp ivrczqzex kyv xivrk nrek fw kyv rxv reu wlcwzcczex kyv
nzjyvj fw kyv gvfgcv. Ze fiuvi kf ivzdslijv kyv Xfmviedvek kyv vogvejvj fw
kyv gcre, zk nrj gifgfjvu kf zemvjk kyv votyvhlvi nzky kyv czdzkvu
rlkyfizkp kf uvrc ze szccj fw votyrexv (lecvjj gifyzszkvu sp kyv Jkrkv ze
nyzty re rxvetp dzxyk sv jzklrkvu) yrmzex fecp kyzikp urpj kf ile reu
ivjkzex fe r wrzi reu sfer wzuv srjzj. Kyv cvxzjcrkzmv nzcc fe kyzj gfzek
dzxyk sv jf gcrzecp reefletvu rj kf rmfzu rcc givkvok wfi grikzrczkp fi
wrmfizkzjd. Zk nrj wlikyvidfiv gifgfjvu kf zemvjk kyzj Kivrjlip rxvek nzky
rlkyfizkp kf ivtvzmv fe uvgfjzk kf r czdzkvu rdflek kyv jgvtzv wleuj fw
zeuzmzulrcj reu kf xirek tvikzwztrkvj kyvivwfi kf sv ivuvvdvu fe
givjvekrkzfe, leuvi kyv zuvr, nyzty zj svczvmvu kf sv nvcc wfleuvu, kyrk
jlty tvikzwztrkvj nflcu tfdv ze rzu fw kyv votyvhlvi szccj ze jlggcpzex r
jrwv reu rdgcv grgvi tzitlcrkzfe. Fi zw ze gcrtv fw kyv tfekvdgcrkvu
uvrczexj ze votyrexv kyv votyvhlvi jyflcu sv rlkyfizqvu efk fecp kf
votyrexv zkj szccj wfi rtklrc uvgfjzkj fw jgvtzv, slk, wfi jgvtzv fi zkj
vhlzmrcvek, kf jvcc uirwkj, tyrixzex kyvivwfi r jdrcc slk ivrjferscv
givdzld, Z tre efk uflsk slk kyrk kyv svevwzkj fw kyv crn nflcu sv jgvvuzcp
drezwvjkvu ze kyv ivmzmrc fw kyv tivuzk, kiruv, reu sljzevjj fw kyv nyfcv
tflekip. Vekvikrzezex kyzj fgzezfe, zk svtfdvj dp ulkp kf lixv zkj rufgkzfe
lgfe Tfexivjj sp ivwvivetv kf kyv jkifexvjk tfejzuvirkzfej fw kyv glsczt
zekvivjkj, nzky jlty rckvirkzfej ze zkj uvkrzcj rj Tfexivjj drp ze zkj
nzjufd jvv wzk kf drbv.

Z rd nvcc rnriv kyrk kyzj gifgfjvu rckvirkzfe reu rdveudvek fw kyv crnj
vjkrsczjyzex kyv Kivrjlip Uvgrikdvek yrj vetflekvivu mrizflj fsavtkzfej,
reu kyrk rdfex fkyvij zk yrj svve giftcrzdvu r Xfmviedvek sreb fw wvriwlc
reu urexviflj zdgfik. Zk zj gifgfjvu kf tfewvi lgfe zk ef vokirfiuzerip
gfnvi. Zk gligfikj kf uf ef dfiv kyre grp kyv uvskj fw kyv Xfmviedvek nzky
kyv ivuvvdrscv grgvi fw kyv Xfmviedvek, ze nyzty ivjgvtk zk rttfdgczjyvj
givtzjvcp nyrk kyv Kivrjlip ufvj urzcp rk kyzj kzdv ze zjjlzex kf kyv
glsczt tivuzkfij kyv Kivrjlip efkvj nyzty leuvi crn zk zj rlkyfizqvu kf
zjjlv. Zk yrj ef ivjvdscretv kf re fiuzerip sreb, rj zk wliezjyvj ef
gifwzkj kf gizmrkv jkftbyfcuvij reu cveuj ef trgzkrc kf zeuzmzulrcj. Zw zk
sv fsavtkvu kf rj r Xfmviedvek sreb reu kyv fsavtkzfe sv rmrzcrscv, kyve
jyflcu rcc kyv crnj ze ivcrkzfe kf kyv Kivrjlip sv ivgvrcvu reu kyv
trgrtzkp fw kyv Xfmviedvek kf tfccvtk nyrk zj ulv kf zk fi grp nyrk zk fnvj
sv rsifxrkvu.

Kyzj zj kyv tyzvw gligfjv fw kyv gifgfjvu votyvhlvi, reu jlivcp zw ze kyv
rttfdgczjydvek fw r gligfjv jf vjjvekzrc zk rwwfiuj r jfleu tzitlcrkzex
dvuzld kf kyv tflekip reu wrtzczkzvj kf kiruv zk jyflcu sv ivxriuvu rj ef
jczxyk ivtfddveurkzfe fw zk kf glsczt tfejzuvirkzfe. Gifgvicp xlriuvu sp
kyv gifmzjzfej fw crn, zk tre ile zekf ef urexviflj vmzc, efi tre rep rsljv
rizjv leuvi zk slk jlty rj kyv Cvxzjcrkliv zkjvcw nzcc sv rejnvirscv wfi zw
zk sv kfcvirkvu, jzetv zk zj slk kyv tivrkliv fw kyv crn reu zj jljtvgkzscv
rk rcc kzdvj fw dfuzwztrkzfe, rdveudvek, fi ivgvrc rk kyv gcvrjliv fw
Tfexivjj. Z befn kyrk zk yrj svve fsavtkvu kyrk kyv jpjkvd nflcu sv czrscv
kf sv rsljvu sp kyv Cvxzjcrkliv, sp nyfd rcfev zk tflcu sv rsljvu, ze kyv
grikp tfewcztkj fw kyv urp; kyrk jlty rsljv nflcu drezwvjk zkjvcw ze r
tyrexv fw kyv crn nyzty nflcu rlkyfizqv re votvjjzmv zjjlv fw grgvi wfi kyv
gligfjv fw zewcrkzex giztvj reu nzeezex gfglcri wrmfi. Kf kyrk zk drp sv
rejnvivu kyrk kyv rjtizgkzfe fw jlty r dfkzmv kf Tfexivjj zj rckfxvkyvi
xirklzkflj reu zerudzjjzscv. Kyv kyvfip fw fli zejkzklkzfej nflcu cvru lj
kf r uzwwvivek tfetcljzfe. Slk r gviwvtk jvtlizkp rxrzejk r giftvvuzex jf
ivtbcvjj nflcu sv wfleu kf vozjk ze kyv mvip erkliv fw kyzexj. Kyv
gfczkztrc grikp nyzty jyflcu sv jf sczeu kf kyv kilv zekvivjkj fw kyv
tflekip rj kf ivjfik kf jlty re vogvuzvek nflcu zevmzkrscp dvvk nzky wzerc
fmvikyifn ze kyv wrtk kyrk kyv dfdvek kyv grgvi tvrjvu kf sv tfemvikzscv
zekf jgvtzv fi fkyvinzjv gifdgkcp ivuvvdvu zk nflcu svtfdv nfikycvjj, reu
nflcu ze kyv veu uzjyfefi kyv Xfmviedvek, zemfcmv kyv gvfgcv ze ilze reu
jlty gfczkztrc grikp ze yfgvcvjj uzjxirtv. Rk kyv jrdv kzdv, jlty r mzvn
zemfcmvj kyv lkkvi zdgfjjzszczkp fw wliezjyzex rep tliivetp fkyvi kyre kyrk
fw kyv givtzflj dvkrcj; wfi zw kyv Xfmviedvek zkjvcw tre efk wfivxf kyv
kvdgkrkzfe fw votvjjzmv grgvi zjjlvj nyrk ivczretv tre sv gcrtvu ze
tfigfirkzfej lgfe nyfd kyv kvdgkrkzfej fw zeuzmzulrc rxxireuzqvdvek nflcu
dfjk jkifexcp fgvirkv? Kyv gvfgcv nflcu yrmv kf scrdv efev slk kyvdjvcmvj
wfi rep zealip kyrk dzxyk rizjv wifd r tflijv jf ivtbcvjj, jzetv kyvzi
rxvekj nflcu sv kyv nifexufvij reu kyvp kyv grjjzmv jgvtkrkfij.

Kyviv tre sv slk kyivv bzeuj fw glsczt tliivetp--wzijk, xfcu reu jzcmvi;
jvtfeu, kyv grgvi fw Jkrkv zejkzklkzfej; fi, kyziu, r ivgivjvekrkzmv fw kyv
givtzflj dvkrcj gifmzuvu sp kyv Xvevirc Xfmviedvek fi leuvi zkj rlkyfizkp.
Kyv jlskivrjlip jpjkvd ivavtkvu kyv crjk ze rep wfid, reu rj zk nrj
svczvmvu kyrk ef ivczretv tflcu sv gcrtvu fe kyv zjjlvj fw cftrc
zejkzklkzfej wfi kyv gligfjvj fw xvevirc tzitlcrkzfe zk evtvjjrizcp reu
lermfzurscp rufgkvu jgvtzv rj kyv votcljzmv tliivetp wfi zkj fne ljv; reu
kyzj dljk vmvi sv kyv trjv lecvjj fev fw kyv fkyvi bzeuj sv ljvu. Kyv
tyfztv ze kyv givjvek jkrkv fw glsczt jvekzdvek czvj svknvve re votcljzmv
jgvtzv tliivetp fe kyv fev yreu reu Xfmviedvek zjjlvj fw jfdv bzeu fe kyv
fkyvi. Kyrk kyvjv zjjlvj tre efk sv druv sp r tyrikvivu zejkzklkzfe zj
jlggfjvu kf sv tfetcljzmvcp jvkkcvu. Kyvp dljk sv druv, kyve, uzivtkcp sp
Xfmviedvek rxvekj. Wfi jvmvirc pvrij grjk kyvp yrmv svve kylj druv ze kyv
wfid fw Kivrjlip efkvj, reu yrmv rejnvivu r mrclrscv gligfjv. Kyvzi
ljvwlcevjj yrj svve czdzkvu sp kyvzi svzex kirejzvek reu kvdgfirip; kyvzi
tvrjzex kf svri zekvivjk rk xzmve gvizfuj evtvjjrizcp trljvj kyvzi jgvvup
ivklie reu kylj ivjkiztkj kyvzi irexv fw tzitlcrkzfe, reu svzex ljvu fecp
ze kyv uzjslijvdvekj fw Xfmviedvek kyvp tre efk ivrty kyfjv gfzekj nyviv
kyvp riv dfjk ivhlzivu. Sp iveuvizex kyvzi ljv gvidrevek, kf kyv dfuvirkv
vokvek rcivrup dvekzfevu, sp fwwvizex ef zeultvdvek wfi kyvzi ivklie reu sp
votyrexzex kyvd wfi tfze reu fkyvi mrclvj, kyvp nzcc tfejkzklkv kf r
tvikrze vokvek kyv xvevirc tliivetp jf dlty evvuvu kf drzekrze kyv zekvierc
kiruv fw kyv tflekip. Reu kyzj zj kyv votyvhlvi gcre jf wri rj zk drp
fgvirkv ze wliezjyzex r tliivetp.

Z tre efk wfivxf kyv fttrjzfe kf lixv zkj zdgfikretv kf kyv tivuzk fw kyv
Xfmviedvek ze r wzeretzrc gfzek fw mzvn. Kyv xivrk evtvjjzkp fw ivjfikzex
kf vmvip gifgvi reu svtfdzex vogvuzvek ze fiuvi kf gcrtv kyv Kivrjlip fe r
wffkzex fw kyv yzxyvjk ivjgvtkrszczkp zj vekzivcp fsmzflj. Kyv tivuzk fw
kyv Xfmviedvek drp sv ivxriuvu rj kyv mvip jflc fw kyv Xfmviedvek zkjvcw--r
gizetzgcv fw mzkrczkp nzkyflk nyzty rcc zkj dfmvdvekj riv crexlzu reu rcc
zkj fgvirkzfej vdsriirjjvu. Ze kyzj jgzizk kyv Vovtlkzmv wvck zkjvcw sfleu
sp kyv dfjk zdgvirkzmv jvejv fw ulkp kf jlsdzk kf Tfexivjj rk zkj crjk
jvjjzfe kyv gifgizvkp fw drbzex r jgvtzwzt gcvuxv fw kyv creu wleu rj kyv
srjzj wfi kyv evxfkzrkzfe fw kyv cfrej rlkyfizqvu kf sv tfekirtkvu. Z kyve
kyflxyk kyrk jlty re rggcztrkzfe fw kyv glsczt ufdrze nflcu nzkyflk uflsk
yrmv gcrtvu rk kyv tfddreu fw kyv Xfmviedvek rdgcv wleuj kf ivczvmv kyv
Kivrjlip wifd kyv kvdgfirip vdsriirjjdvekj leuvi nyzty zk crsfivu. Rdviztre
tivuzk yrj jlwwvivu r tfejzuvirscv jyftb ze Vlifgv wifd kyv crixv
zeuvskvuevjj fw kyv Jkrkvj reu kyv kvdgfirip zerszczkp fw jfdv fw kyvd kf
dvvk kyv zekvivjk fe kyvzi uvskj. Kyv lkkvi reu uzjrjkiflj gifjkirkzfe fw
kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj Sreb fw Gveejpcmrezr yru tfekizslkvu crixvcp kf zetivrjv
kyv jvekzdvek fw uzjkiljk sp ivrjfe fw kyv cfjj reu ilze jljkrzevu sp kyv
yfcuvij fw zkj jkftb, r crixv gfikzfe fw nyfd nviv wfivzxevij reu drep fw
nyfd nviv rczbv zxefirek fw fli gfczkztrc fixrezqrkzfe reu fw fli rtklrc
ivjgfejzszczkzvj.

Zk nrj kyv reozflj uvjziv fw kyv Vovtlkzmv kyrk ze kyv vwwfik kf evxfkzrkv
kyv cfre rsifru kyv Rdviztre evxfkzrkfi dzxyk sv rscv kf gfzek kyv dfevp
cveuvi kf kyv wleu dfikxrxvu wfi kyv ivuvdgkzfe fw kyv gizetzgrc reu
zekvivjk fw rep cfre yv dzxyk tfekirtk, reu kyvivsp mzeuztrkv kyv
Xfmviedvek wifd rcc jljgztzfe fw sru wrzky fi zerszczkp kf dvvk zkj
vexrxvdvekj. Tfexivjj uzwwvivu wifd kyv Vovtlkzmv ze kyzj mzvn fw kyv
jlsavtk. Zk svtrdv, evmvikyvcvjj, kyv ulkp fw kyv Vovtlkzmv kf ivjfik kf
vmvip vogvuzvek ze zkj gfnvi kf uf jf.

Rwkvi r wrzcliv ze kyv Rdviztre dribvk r tzkzqve fw yzxy tyrirtkvi reu
krcvek nrj jvek kf Vlifgv, nzky ef svkkvi jlttvjj; reu kylj kyv dfikzwpzex
jgvtkrtcv yrj svve givjvekvu fw kyv zerszczkp fw kyzj Xfmviedvek kf fskrze
r cfre jf jdrcc rj efk ze kyv nyfcv kf rdflek kf dfiv kyre fev-wfliky fw
zkj fiuzerip reelrc zetfdv, rk r kzdv nyve kyv Xfmviedvekj fw Vlifgv,
rckyflxy zemfcmvu ze uvsk reu nzky kyvzi jlsavtkj yvrmzcp slikyvevu nzky
krorkzfe, ivruzcp fskrzevu cfrej fw rep rdflek rk r xivrkcp ivultvu irkv fw
zekvivjk. Zk nflcu sv legifwzkrscv kf cffb wlikyvi zekf kyzj refdrcflj
jkrkv fw kyzexj, slk Z tre efk tfetcluv nzkyflk ruuzex kyrk wfi r
Xfmviedvek nyzty yrj grzu fww zkj uvskj fw knf nrij nzky kyv crixvjk
drizkzdv gfnvi fw Vlifgv, reu efn fnzex r uvsk nyzty zj rcdfjk evok kf
efkyzex nyve tfdgrivu nzky zkj sfleucvjj ivjflitvj--r Xfmviedvek kyv
jkifexvjk ze kyv nficu, svtrljv vdrerkzex wifd kyv gfglcri nzcc reu wzidcp
iffkvu ze kyv rwwvtkzfej fw r xivrk reu wivv gvfgcv, reu nyfjv wzuvczkp kf
zkj vexrxvdvekj yrj evmvi svve hlvjkzfevu--wfi jlty r Xfmviedvek kf yrmv
kveuvivu kf kyv trgzkrczjkj fw fkyvi tflekizvj re fggfiklezkp wfi r jdrcc
zemvjkdvek ze zkj jkftb, reu pvk kf yrmv wrzcvu, zdgczvj vzkyvi kyv dfjk
lewfleuvu uzjkiljk ze zkj xffu wrzky fi r gligfjv kf fskrze nyzty kyv
tflijv glijlvu zj kyv dfjk wrkrc nyzty tflcu yrmv svve rufgkvu. Zk yrj efn
svtfdv fsmzflj kf rcc dve kyrk kyv Xfmviedvek dljk cffb kf zkj fne dvrej
wfi jlggcpzex zkj nrekj, reu zk zj tfejfczex kf befn kyrk kyvjv dvrej riv
rckfxvkyvi ruvhlrkv wfi kyv fsavtk. Kyv votyvhlvi, zw rufgkvu, nzcc xivrkcp
rzu ze sizexzex rsflk kyzj ivjlck. Lgfe nyrk Z ivxriu rj r nvcc-ifleuvu
jlggfjzkzfe kyrk zkj szccj nflcu sv ivruzcp jflxyk wfi sp kyv glsczt
tivuzkfij reu kyrk kyv zjjlv nflcu ze r jyfik kzdv ivrty kyv drozdld fw
$15,000,000, zk zj fsmzflj kyrk $10,000,000 nflcu kyvivsp sv ruuvu kf kyv
rmrzcrscv dvrej fw kyv Kivrjlip nzkyflk tfjk fi tyrixv. Efi tre Z wrzc kf
lixv kyv xivrk reu svevwztzrc vwwvtkj nyzty nflcu sv gifultvu ze rzu fw rcc
kyv rtkzmv glijlzkj fw czwv. Zkj vwwvtkj lgfe kyv jfcmvek Jkrkv srebj,
nyzcv zk nflcu wfitv zekf czhlzurkzfe kyfjv fw re fggfjzkv tyrirtkvi
kyiflxy zkj nvvbcp jvkkcvdvekj, nflcu sv yzxycp svevwztzrc; reu nzky kyv
rumrekrxvj fw r jfleu tliivetp kyv ivjkfirkzfe fw tfewzuvetv reu tivuzk
nflcu wfccfn nzky r eldviflj kirze fw scvjjzexj. Dp tfemztkzfej riv dfjk
jkifex kyrk kyvjv svevwzkj nflcu wcfn wifd kyv rufgkzfe fw kyzj dvrjliv;
slk zw kyv ivjlck jyflcu sv rumvijv kyviv zj kyzj jvtlizkp ze tfeevtkzfe
nzky zk--kyrk kyv crn tivrkzex zk drp sv ivgvrcvu rk kyv gcvrjliv fw kyv
Cvxzjcrkliv nzkyflk kyv jczxykvjk zdgcztrkzfe fw zkj xffu wrzky.

Z ivtfddveu kf Tfexivjj kf krbv zekf tfejzuvirkzfe kyv gifgizvkp fw
ivzdslijzex r wzev zdgfjvu fe Xvevirc Artbjfe rk Evn Ficvrej rk kyv kzdv fw
kyv rkkrtb reu uvwvejv fw kyrk tzkp, reu grzu sp yzd. Nzkyflk uvjzxezex rep
ivwcvtkzfe fe kyv aluztzrc kizslerc nyzty zdgfjvu kyv wzev, kyv ivdzjjzfe
rk kyzj urp drp sv ivxriuvu rj efk lealjk fi zevogvuzvek. Kyv mfztv fw kyv
tzmzc rlkyfizkp nrj yvriu rdzujk kyv xczkkvi fw ridj reu fsvpvu sp kyfjv
nyf yvcu kyv jnfiu, kyvivsp xzmzex ruuzkzferc cljkvi kf r dvdfirscv
dzczkrip rtyzvmvdvek. Zw kyv crnj nviv fwwveuvu, kyvzi dravjkp nrj wlccp
mzeuztrkvu; reu rckyflxy kyv gverckp zetliivu reu grzu zj nfikyp fw czkkcv
ivxriu ze r gvtlezrip gfzek fw mzvn, zk tre yriucp sv uflskvu kyrk zk nflcu
sv xirkzwpzex kf kyv nri-nfie mvkvire, efn ze ivkzivdvek reu ze kyv nzekvi
fw yzj urpj, kf sv ivczvmvu wifd kyv tzitldjkretvj ze nyzty kyrk aluxdvek
gcrtvu yzd. Kyviv riv trjvj ze nyzty glsczt wletkzferizvj drp sv trccvu fe
kf nvzxy kyv glsczt zekvivjk rxrzejk kyvzi fne gvijferc yrqriuj, reu zw kyv
tzmzc crn sv mzfcrkvu wifd girzjvnfikyp dfkzmvj fi re fmviilczex jvejv fw
glsczt urexvi reu glsczt evtvjjzkp glezjydvek drp nvcc sv ivjkirzevu nzkyze
kyrk czdzk nyzty rjjvikj reu drzekrzej kyv rlkyfizkp fw kyv crn reu kyv
jlsavtkzfe fw kyv dzczkrip kf kyv tzmzc gfnvi. Kyv uvwvejv fw Evn Ficvrej,
nyzcv zk jrmvu r tzkp wifd kyv yreuj fw kyv vevdp, gcrtvu kyv erdv fw
Xvevirc Artbjfe rdfex kyfjv fw kyv xivrkvjk trgkrzej fw kyv rxv reu
zccljkirkvu fev fw kyv sizxykvjk grxvj fw fli yzjkfip. Efn kyrk kyv trljvj
fw votzkvdvek vozjkzex rk kyv kzdv yrmv tvrjvu kf fgvirkv, zk zj svczvmvu
kyrk kyv ivdzjjzfe fw kyzj wzev reu nyrkvmvi fw xirkzwztrkzfe kyrk
ivdzjjzfe dzxyk trljv kyv vdzevek dre nyf zetliivu reu grzu zk nflcu sv ze
rttfiuretv nzky kyv xvevirc wvvczex reu nzjyvj fw kyv Rdviztre gvfgcv.

Z yrmv kylj, wvccfn-tzkzqvej, rthlzkkvu dpjvcw fw dp ulkp leuvi kyv
Tfejkzklkzfe sp crpzex svwfiv pfl rj jlttzetkcp rj Z yrmv svve rscv kyv
jkrkv fw kyv Lezfe reu sp zemzkzex pfli rkkvekzfe kf dvrjlivj fw dlty
zdgfikretv kf kyv tflekip. Kyv vovtlkzmv nzcc dfjk qvrcfljcp lezkv zkj
vwwfikj nzky kyfjv fw kyv cvxzjcrkzmv uvgrikdvek ze kyv rttfdgczjydvek fw
rcc kyrk zj ivhlzivu kf ivczvmv kyv nrekj fw r tfddfe tfejkzklvetp fi
vcvmrkv kyv uvjkzezvj fw r svcfmvu tflekip.