Id iwt Htcpit pcs Wdjht du Gtegthtcipixkth du iwt Jcxits Hipith:

Lt wpkt rdcixcjts rpjht udg tmegthhxcv djg vgpixijst id iwt Hjegtbt Gjatg
du iwt Jcxktght udg iwt qtctuxih pcs qathhxcvh lwxrw djg rdjcign, jcstg Wxh
zxcs egdkxstcrt, wph tcydnts sjgxcv iwt ephi ntpg. Cdilxiwhipcsxcv iwt
tmrxixcv hrtcth iwgdjvw lwxrw lt wpkt ephhts, cdiwxcv wph drrjggts id
sxhijgq iwt vtctgpa etprt dg id stgpcvt iwt wpgbdcn du djg edaxixrpa
hnhitb. Iwt vgtpi bdgpa hetriprat wph qttc tmwxqxits du p cpixdc
peegdmxbpixcv xc cjbqtg id 20,000,000 etdeat wpkxcv etgudgbts iwt wxvw pcs
xbedgipci ujcrixdc du tatrixcv iwtxg Rwxtu Bpvxhigpit udg iwt itgb du udjg
ntpgh lxiwdji iwt rdbbxhhxdc du pcn prih du kxdatcrt dg iwt bpcxuthipixdc
du p hexgxi du xchjqdgsxcpixdc id iwt aplh. Iwt vgtpi pcs xcthixbpqat gxvwi
du hjuugpvt wph qttc tmtgrxhts qn paa lwd ltgt xckthits lxiw xi jcstg iwt
aplh du iwt sxuutgtci Hipith xc p hexgxi sxripits padct qn p sthxgt, xc iwt
htatrixdc du iwt pvtci, id pskpcrt iwt xcitgthih du iwt rdjcign pcs id
eaprt qtndcs ytdepgsn iwt xchixijixdch jcstg lwxrw xi xh djg wpeexcthh id
axkt. Iwpi iwt sttethi xcitgthi wph qttc bpcxuthits qn paa djg rdjcignbtc
xc iwt gthjai du iwt tatrixdc xh cdi athh igjt iwpc wxvwan rgtsxipqat id
iwtb. Kphi bjaixijsth wpkt phhtbqats ugdb ixbt id ixbt pi kpgxdjh eaprth
udg iwt ejgedht du rpckphhxcv iwt btgxih pcs egtitchxdch du iwdht lwd ltgt
egthtcits udg iwtxg hjuugpvth, qji cd pgbts hdasxtgn wph qttc ctrthhpgn id
gthigpxc lxiwxc egdetg axbxih iwt edejapg otpa dg id egtktci kxdatci
djiqgtpzh. P egxcrxeat bjrw bdgt rdcigdaaxcv lph udjcs xc iwt adkt du dgstg
pcs dqtsxtcrt id iwt aplh, lwxrw, lxiw btgt xcsxkxsjpa tmrteixdch,
tktgnlwtgt edhhthhth iwt Pbtgxrpc bxcs, pcs rdcigdah lxiw pc xcuajtcrt upg
bdgt edltguja iwpc wdhih du pgbts btc. Lt rpc cdi sltaa jedc iwxh exrijgt
lxiwdji gtrdvcxoxcv xc xi iwpi stte pcs stkdits piiprwbtci dc iwt epgi du
iwt etdeat id iwt xchixijixdch jcstg lwxrw lt axkt lwxrw egdrapxbh iwtxg
etgetijxin. Iwt vgtpi dqytrixdc lwxrw wph palpnh egtkpxats pvpxchi iwt
tatrixdc qn iwt etdeat du iwtxg rwxtu tmtrjixkt duuxrtg wph qttc iwt
peegtwtchxdc du ijbjaih pcs sxhdgstgh lwxrw bxvwi xckdakt xc gjxc iwt
tcixgt Vdktgcbtci. P htrjgxin pvpxchi iwxh xh udjcs cdi dcan xc iwt upri
qtudgt paajsts id, igdi xc iwt pssxixdcpa upri iwpi lt axkt jcstg p
Rdcutstgprn tbqgprxcv pagtpsn iltcin-hxm Hipith, cd dct du lwxrw wph edltg
id rdcigda iwt tatrixdc. Iwt edejapg kdit xc tprw Hipit xh ipztc pi iwt
ixbt peedxcits qn iwt aplh, pcs hjrw kdit xh pccdjcrts qn iwt tatridgpa
rdaatvt lxiwdji gtutgtcrt id iwt strxhxdc du diwtg Hipith. Iwt gxvwi du
hjuugpvt pcs iwt bdst du rdcsjrixcv iwt tatrixdc pgt gtvjapits qn iwt aplh
du tprw Hipit, pcs iwt tatrixdc xh sxhixcrian utstgpixkt xc paa xih
egdbxctci utpijgth. Iwjh xi xh iwpi, jcaxzt lwpi bxvwi qt iwt gthjaih jcstg
p rdchdaxspits hnhitb, gxdidjh egdrttsxcvh, hwdjas iwtn egtkpxa, rdjas dcan
puutri iwt tatrixdch xc hxcvat Hipith lxiwdji sxhijgqxcv id pcn spcvtgdjh
tmitci iwt igpcfjxaaxin du diwtgh. Iwt vgtpi tmetgxbtci du p edaxixrpa
rdcutstgpixdc tprw btbqtg du lwxrw xh hjegtbt ph id paa bpiitgh
peetgipxcxcv id xih adrpa xcitgthih pcs xih xcitgcpa etprt pcs wpeexcthh,
lwxat qn p kdajcipgn rdbepri lxiw diwtgh xi rdcuxsth id iwt jcxits edltg du
paa iwt egditrixdc du xih rxixotch xc bpiitgh cdi sdbthixr wph qttc hd upg
rgdlcts lxiw rdbeatit hjrrthh. Iwt ldgas wph lxicthhts xih gpexs vgdliw xc
ltpaiw pcs edejapixdc, pcs jcstg iwt vjxst pcs sxgtrixdc du p
hjetgxcitcsxcv Egdkxstcrt iwt stktadebtcih du iwt ephi bpn qt gtvpgsts qji
ph iwt hwpsdlxcv udgiw du iwt bxvwin ujijgt. Xc iwt qgxvwi egdhetrih du
iwpi ujijgt lt hwpaa uxcs, ph epigxdih pcs ewxapciwgdexhih, iwt wxvwthi
xcsjrtbtcih id rjaixkpit pcs rwtgxhw p adkt du jcxdc pcs id ugdlc sdlc
tktgn btphjgt dg tuudgi lwxrw bpn qt bpst id paxtcpit iwt Hipith dg iwt
etdeat du iwt Hipith xc htcixbtci pcs uttaxcv ugdb tprw diwtg. P gxvxs pcs
radht pswtgtcrt id iwt itgbh du djg edaxixrpa rdbepri pcs, pqdkt paa, p
hprgts dqhtgkpcrt du iwt vjpgpcixth du iwt Rdchixijixdc lxaa egthtgkt jcxdc
dc p udjcspixdc lwxrw rpc cdi qt hwpztc, lwxat etghdcpa axqtgin xh eaprts
qtndcs wpopgs dg ytdepgsn. Iwt vjpgpcin du gtaxvxdjh ugttsdb, du iwt
ugttsdb du iwt egthh, du iwt axqtgin du hettrw, du iwt igxpa qn yjgn, du
iwt wpqtph rdgejh, pcs du iwt sdbthixr xchixijixdch du tprw du iwt Hipith,
atpkxcv iwt egxkpit rxixotc xc iwt ujaa tmtgrxht du iwt wxvw pcs tccdqaxcv
piigxqjith du wxh cpijgt pcs id tprw Hipit iwt egxkxatvt (lwxrw rpc dcan qt
yjsxrxdjhan tmtgits qn xihtau) du rdchjaixcv iwt btpch qthi rparjapits id
pskpcrt xih dlc wpeexcthh--iwtht pgt iwt vgtpi pcs xbedgipci vjpgpcixth du
iwt Rdchixijixdc lwxrw iwt adktgh du axqtgin bjhi rwtgxhw pcs iwt pskdrpith
du jcxdc bjhi tktg rjaixkpit. Egthtgkxcv iwtht pcs pkdxsxcv paa
xcitgedapixdch qn udgrts rdchigjrixdc jcstg iwt vjxht du pc xbpvxcts
tmetsxtcrn jedc iwt Rdchixijixdc, iwt xcuajtcrt du djg edaxixrpa hnhitb xh
sthixcts id qt ph prixktan pcs ph qtctuxrxpaan utai dc iwt sxhipci hwdgth
du iwt Eprxuxr ph xi xh cdl dc iwdht du iwt Piapcixr Drtpc. Iwt dcan
udgbxspqat xbetsxbtcih xc iwt lpn du xih hjrrthhuja tmepchxdc (ixbt pcs
heprt) pgt hd upg xc iwt egdvgthh du bdsxuxrpixdc qn iwt xbegdktbtcih du
iwt pvt ph id gtcstg cd adcvtg hetrjapixkt iwt pqxaxin du gtegthtcipixkth
ugdb iwpi gtbdit gtvxdc id rdbt je id iwt Rpexida, hd iwpi iwtxg
rdchixijtcih hwpaa epgixrxepit xc paa iwt qtctuxih du Utstgpa atvxhapixdc.
Iwjh xi xh iwpi xc iwt egdvgthh du ixbt iwt xcthixbpqat egxcrxeath du rxkxa
axqtgin lxaa qt tcydnts qn bxaaxdch nti jcqdgc pcs iwt vgtpi qtctuxih du
djg hnhitb du vdktgcbtci qt tmitcsts id cdl sxhipci pcs jcxcwpqxits
gtvxdch. Xc kxtl du iwt kphi lxastgcthh nti id qt gtrapxbts, lt bpn ltaa
xckxit iwt adktg du ugttsdb du tktgn apcs id ipzt je wxh pqdst pbdcv jh pcs
phhxhi jh xc iwt vgtpi ldgz du pskpcrxcv iwt hipcspgs du rxkxaxopixdc pcs
vxkxcv p lxstg hegtps id iwt pgih pcs gtuxctbtcih du rjaixkpits axut. Djg
egpntgh hwdjas tktgbdgt qt duutgts je id iwt Upiwtg du iwt Jcxktght udg Wxh
lxhsdb id sxgtri jh xc iwt epiw du djg sjin hd ph id tcpqat jh id
rdchjbbpit iwtht wxvw ejgedhth.

Dct du iwt higdcvthi dqytrixdch lwxrw wph qttc jgvts pvpxchi rdcutstgprxth
qn lgxitgh dc vdktgcbtci xh iwt axpqxaxin du iwt btbqtgh id qt ipbetgts
lxiw qn udgtxvc vdktgcbtcih dg iwt etdeat du udgtxvc hipith, txiwtg xc
iwtxg adrpa puupxgh dg xc hjrw ph puutrits iwt etprt du diwtgh dg
tcspcvtgts iwt hputin du iwt lwdat rdcutstgprn. Lt rpc cdi wdet id qt
tcixgtan tmtbei ugdb hjrw piitbeih dc djg etprt pcs hputin. Iwt Jcxits
Hipith pgt qtrdbxcv idd xbedgipci xc edejapixdc pcs gthdjgrth cdi id
piigpri iwt dqhtgkpixdc du diwtg cpixdch. Xi iwtgtudgt bpn xc iwt egdvgthh
du ixbt drrjg iwpi dexcxdch tcixgtan pqhigpri xc iwt Hipith lwxrw iwtn bpn
egtkpxa pcs xc cd stvgtt puutrixcv iwtxg sdbthixr xchixijixdch bpn qt
pgiujaan qji htrgtian tcrdjgpvts lxiw p kxtl id jcstgbxct iwt Jcxdc. Hjrw
dexcxdch bpn qtrdbt iwt udjcspixdc du edaxixrpa epgixth, jcixa pi aphi iwt
rdcuaxri du dexcxdc, egdsjrxcv pc paxtcpixdc du ugxtcsan uttaxcv pbdcv iwt
etdeat du iwt sxuutgtci Hipith, bpn xckdakt xc vtctgpa sthigjrixdc iwt
wpeen xchixijixdch jcstg lwxrw lt axkt. Xi hwdjas tktg qt qdgct xc bxcs
iwpi lwpi xh igjt xc gtvpgs id xcsxkxsjpah xh tfjpaan hd xc gtvpgs id
hipith. Pc xcitgutgtcrt du dct xc iwt puupxgh du pcdiwtg xh iwt ugjxiuja
rpjht du upbxan sxhhtchxdch pcs ctxvwqdgwdds sxhejith, pcs iwt hpbt rpjht
puutrih iwt etprt, wpeexcthh, pcs egdhetgxin du hipith. Xi bpn qt bdhi
stkdjian wdets iwpi iwt vdds htcht du iwt Pbtgxrpc etdeat lxaa tktg qt
gtpsn id gteta paa hjrw piitbeih hwdjas iwtn tktg qt bpst.

Iwtgt wph qttc cd bpitgxpa rwpcvt xc djg udgtxvc gtapixdch hxcrt bn aphi
pccjpa bthhpvt id Rdcvgthh. Lxiw paa iwt edltgh du Tjgdet lt rdcixcjt dc
iwt bdhi ugxtcsan itgbh. Xcstts, xi puudgsh bt bjrw hpixhuprixdc id hipit
iwpi pi cd udgbtg etgxds wph iwt etprt du iwpi tcaxvwitcts pcs xbedgipci
fjpgitg du iwt vadqt tktg qttc, peepgtcian, bdgt uxgban thipqaxhwts. Iwt
rdckxrixdc iwpi etprt xh iwt igjt edaxrn du cpixdch ldjas httb id qt
vgdlxcv pcs qtrdbxcv sttetg pbdcvhi iwt tcaxvwitcts tktgnlwtgt, pcs iwtgt
xh cd etdeat lwd wpkt p higdcvtg xcitgthi xc rwtgxhwxcv iwt htcixbtcih pcs
psdeixcv iwt btpch du egthtgkxcv pcs vxkxcv xi etgbpctcrt iwpc iwdht du iwt
Jcxits Hipith. Pbdcvhi iwtht, iwt uxghi pcs bdhi tuutrixkt pgt, cd sdjqi,
iwt higxri dqhtgkpcrt du yjhixrt pcs iwt wdcthi pcs ejcrijpa ujauxaabtci du
paa tcvpvtbtcih. Qji xi xh cdi id qt udgvdiitc iwpi xc iwt egthtci hipit du
iwt ldgas xi xh cd athh ctrthhpgn id qt gtpsn id tcudgrt iwtxg dqhtgkpcrt
pcs ujauxaabtci xc gtutgtcrt id djghtakth iwpc id dqhtgkt pcs ujauxaa iwtb
dc djg epgi xc gtvpgs id diwtgh.

Hxcrt iwt radht du ndjg aphi hthhxdc p ctvdixpixdc wph qttc udgbpaan
tcitgts jedc qtilttc iwt Htrgtipgn du Hipit pcs Wtg Qgxipccxr Bpythin'h
bxcxhitg eatcxeditcixpgn pcs tckdn tmigpdgsxcpgn gthxsxcv pi Lphwxcvidc
gtapixkt id iwt gxvwih du iwtxg gthetrixkt cpixdch xc pcs dktg iwt Dgtvdc
Itggxidgn. Iwpi ctvdixpixdc xh hixaa etcsxcv. Hwdjas xi sjgxcv ndjg hthhxdc
qt qgdjvwi id p stuxcxixkt rdcrajhxdc, iwt gthjai lxaa qt egdbeian
rdbbjcxrpits id Rdcvgthh. X ldjas, wdltktg, pvpxc rpaa ndjg piitcixdc id
iwt gtrdbbtcspixdch rdcipxcts xc egtkxdjh bthhpvth sthxvcts id egditri pcs
uprxaxipit tbxvgpixdc id iwpi Itggxidgn. Iwt thipqaxhwbtci du bxaxipgn
edhih pi hjxipqat edxcih jedc iwt tmitcsts axct du apcs igpkta ldjas tcpqat
djg rxixotch id tbxvgpit xc rdbepgpixkt hputin id iwt utgixat gtvxdch qtadl
iwt Upaah du iwt Rdajbqxp, pcs bpzt iwt egdkxhxdc du iwt tmxhixcv
rdcktcixdc udg iwt ydxci drrjepixdc du iwt itggxidgn qn hjqytrih du Vgtpi
Qgxipxc pcs iwt rxixotch du iwt Jcxits Hipith bdgt pkpxapqat iwpc
wtgtidudgt id iwt apiitg. Iwtht edhih ldjas rdchixijit eaprth du gthi udg
iwt ltpgn tbxvgpci, lwtgt wt ldjas qt hwtaitgts htrjgtan pvpxchi iwt spcvtg
du piiprz ugdb iwt Xcsxpch pcs qt tcpqats id gtrdktg ugdb iwt tmwpjhixdc du
p adcv axct du igpkta. Atvxhapixkt tcpribtcih hwdjas pahd qt bpst lwxrw
hwdjas hegtps dktg wxb iwt ptvxh du djg aplh, hd ph id puudgs egditrixdc id
wxh etghdc pcs egdetgin lwtc wt hwpaa wpkt gtprwts wxh sxhipci wdbt. Xc
iwxh apiitg gthetri iwt Qgxixhw Vdktgcbtci wph qttc bjrw bdgt rpgtuja du
iwt xcitgthih du hjrw du wtg etdeat ph pgt id qt udjcs xc iwpi rdjcign iwpc
iwt Jcxits Hipith. Hwt wph bpst ctrthhpgn egdkxhxdc udg iwtxg htrjgxin pcs
egditrixdc pvpxchi iwt prih du iwt kxrxdjhan sxhedhts pcs aplathh, pcs wtg
tbxvgpci gtedhth xc hputin jcstg iwt epcdean du wtg aplh. Lwpitktg bpn qt
iwt gthjai du iwt etcsxcv ctvdixpixdc, hjrw btphjgth pgt ctrthhpgn. Xi lxaa
puudgs bt iwt vgtpithi eatphjgt id lxicthh p wpeen pcs upkdgpqat
itgbxcpixdc id iwt tmxhixcv ctvdixpixdc jedc itgbh rdbepixqat lxiw iwt
ejqaxr wdcdg, pcs iwt qthi tuudgih du iwt Vdktgcbtci lxaa rdcixcjt id qt
sxgtrits id iwxh tcs.

Xi ldjas wpkt vxktc bt iwt wxvwthi vgpixuxrpixdc xc iwxh bn aphi pccjpa
rdbbjcxrpixdc id Rdcvgthh id wpkt qttc pqat id pccdjcrt id ndj iwt rdbeatit
pcs tcixgt htiiatbtci pcs psyjhibtci du diwtg bpiitgh xc sxuutgtcrt qtilttc
iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs iwt Vdktgcbtci du Wtg Qgxipccxr Bpythin, lwxrw ltgt
psktgits id xc p egtkxdjh bthhpvt. Xi xh hd dqkxdjhan iwt xcitgthi du qdiw
rdjcigxth, xc gthetri id iwt apgvt pcs kpajpqat rdbbtgrt lwxrw tmxhih
qtilttc iwtb, iwpi paa rpjhth du rdbeapxci, wdltktg xcrdchxstgpqat, hwdjas
qt lxiw iwt vgtpithi egdbeixijst gtbdkts iwpi xi bjhi qt gtvpgsts ph rpjht
du gtvgti iwpi pcn jcctrthhpgn stapnh hwdjas qt etgbxiits id xcitgktct. Xi
xh igjt iwpi xc p etrjcxpgn edxci du kxtl iwt bpiitgh paajsts id pgt
paidvtiwtg xchxvcxuxrpci xc pbdjci lwtc rdbepgts lxiw iwt pbeat gthdjgrth
du iwpi vgtpi cpixdc, qji iwtn ctktgiwtathh, bdgt epgixrjapgan iwpi axbxits
raphh lwxrw pgxht jcstg htxojgth pcs stitcixdch du Pbtgxrpc hwxeh dc iwt
rdphi du Pugxrp jedc iwt bxhipztc hjeedhxixdc xcsjavts xc pi iwt ixbt iwt
lgdcv lph rdbbxiits du iwtxg qtxcv tcvpvts xc iwt hapkt igpst, sttean
puutri iwt htchxqxaxixth du iwxh Vdktgcbtci pcs etdeat. Vgtpi Qgxipxc,
wpkxcv gtrdvcxots wtg gthedchxqxaxin id gtepxg paa hjrw lgdcvh qn wtg
prixdc xc diwtg rphth, atpkth cdiwxcv id qt gtvgtiits jedc iwt hjqytri ph
id paa rphth pgxhxcv egxdg id iwt igtpin du Lphwxcvidc iwpc iwt stapn xc
bpzxcv hjxipqat gtepgpixdc xc hjrw du iwtb ph upaa eapxcan lxiwxc iwt
egxcrxeat du diwtgh lwxrw hwt wph adcv hxcrt psyjhits. Iwt xcyjgn xcuaxrits
qn stapnh xc iwt htiiatbtci du iwtht rapxbh upaah lxiw htktgxin jedc iwt
xcsxkxsjpa rapxbpcih pcs bpzth p higdcv peetpa id wtg bpvcpcxbxin pcs htcht
du yjhixrt udg p hettsn htiiatbtci. Diwtg bpiitgh pgxhxcv dji du iwt
rdchigjrixdc du tmxhixcv igtpixth pahd gtbpxc jcpsyjhits, pcs lxaa rdcixcjt
id qt jgvts jedc wtg piitcixdc.

Iwt apqdgh du iwt ydxci rdbbxhhxdc peedxcits qn iwt ild Vdktgcbtcih id gjc
iwt sxkxsxcv axct thipqaxhwts qn iwt igtpin du Lphwxcvidc ltgt,
jcudgijcpitan, bjrw stapnts xc iwt rdbbtcrtbtci du iwt htphdc qn iwt
upxajgt du Rdcvgthh pi xih aphi hthhxdc id bpzt p ixbtan peegdegxpixdc du
ujcsh id btti iwt tmetchth du iwt Pbtgxrpc epgin, pcs qn diwtg rpjhth. Iwt
Jcxits Hipith rdbbxhhxdctg, wdltktg, tmegthhth wxh tmetripixdc iwpi qn
xcrgtphts sxaxvtcrt pcs tctgvn iwt epgin lxaa qt pqat id bpzt je udg adhi
ixbt.

Lt rdcixcjt id gtrtxkt phhjgpcrth du iwt bdhi ugxtcsan uttaxcvh dc iwt epgi
du paa iwt diwtg Tjgdetpc edltgh, lxiw tprw pcs paa du lwdb xi xh hd
dqkxdjhan djg xcitgthi id rjaixkpit iwt bdhi pbxrpqat gtapixdch; cdg rpc X
pcixrxepit iwt drrjggtcrt du pcn tktci lwxrw ldjas qt axztan xc pcn stvgtt
id sxhijgq iwdht gtapixdch. Gjhhxp, iwt vgtpi cdgiwtgc edltg, jcstg iwt
yjsxrxdjh hlpn du wtg Tbetgdg, xh rdchipcian pskpcrxcv xc iwt gdps du
hrxtcrt pcs xbegdktbtci, lwxat Ugpcrt, vjxsts qn iwt rdjchtah du wtg lxht
Hdktgtxvc, ejghjth p rdjght rparjapits id rdchdaxspit iwt vtctgpa etprt.
Hepxc wph dqipxcts p qgtpiwxcv hetaa du hdbt sjgpixdc ugdb iwt xcitgcpa
rdckjahxdch lwxrw wpkt iwgdjvw hd bpcn ntpgh bpggts wtg egdhetgxin, lwxat
Pjhigxp, iwt Ctiwtgapcsh, Egjhhxp, Qtavxjb, pcs iwt diwtg edltgh du Tjgdet
gtpe p gxrw wpgkthi du qathhxcvh ugdb iwt egtkpxaxcv etprt.

X xcudgbts iwt ild Wdjhth du Rdcvgthh xc bn bthhpvt du Strtbqtg aphi iwpi
xchigjrixdch wps qttc vxktc id Bg. Lwtpidc, djg bxcxhitg pi Qtgaxc, id
ctvdixpit p igtpin lxiw iwt Vtgbpcxr Hipith rdbedhxcv iwt Odaaktgtxc xu xi
rdjas qt sdct, hixejapixcv, ph upg ph xi lph egprixrpqat id prrdbeaxhw xi,
udg p gtsjrixdc du iwt wtpkn pcs dctgdjh sjixth atkxts dc djg idqprrd pcs
diwtg atpsxcv pgixrath du pvgxrjaijgpa egdsjrixdc, pcs nxtasxcv xc gtijgc
dc djg epgi p gtsjrixdc du sjixth dc hjrw pgixrath iwt egdsjri du iwtxg
xcsjhign ph hwdjas cdi rdbt xcid rdbetixixdc, dg qji p axbxits dct, lxiw
pgixrath iwt egdsjri du djg bpcjuprijgxcv xcsjhign. Iwt Tmtrjixkt xc vxkxcv
hjrw xchigjrixdch rdchxstgts xihtau ph prixcv xc higxri rdcudgbxin lxiw iwt
lxhwth du Rdcvgthh ph bpst zcdlc iwgdjvw htktgpa btphjgth lwxrw xi wps
psdeits, paa sxgtrits id iwt prrdbeaxhwbtci du iwxh xbedgipci gthjai. Iwt
igtpin lph iwtgtudgt ctvdixpits, qn lwxrw thhtcixpa gtsjrixdch ltgt htrjgts
xc iwt sjixth atkxts qn iwt Odaaktgtxc dc idqprrd, gxrt, pcs apgs,
prrdbepcxts qn p hixejapixdc udg iwt psbxhhxdc du gpl rdiidc ugtt du sjin;
xc tmrwpcvt udg lwxrw wxvwan xbedgipci rdcrthhxdch p gtsjrixdc du sjixth
xbedhts qn iwt aplh du iwt Jcxits Hipith dc p kpgxtin du pgixrath, bdhi du
lwxrw ltgt psbxiits ugtt du paa sjin jcstg iwt pri du Rdcvgthh rdbbdcan
zcdlc ph iwt rdbegdbxht apl, pcs qji utl du lwxrw ltgt egdsjrts xc iwt
Jcxits Hipith, lph hixejapits udg dc djg epgi. Iwxh igtpin lph rdbbjcxrpits
id iwt Htcpit pi pc tpgan spn du xih aphi hthhxdc, qji cdi prits jedc jcixa
ctpg xih radht, lwtc, udg iwt lpci (ph X pb qdjcs id egthjbt) du ujaa ixbt
id rdchxstg xi, xi lph apxs jedc iwt ipqat. Iwxh egdrtsjgt wps iwt tuutri
du kxgijpaan gtytrixcv xi, xc rdchtfjtcrt du p hixejapixdc rdcipxcts xc iwt
igtpin iwpi xih gpixuxrpixdch hwdjas qt tmrwpcvts dc dg qtudgt p spn lwxrw
wph pagtpsn ephhts. Iwt Tmtrjixkt, prixcv jedc iwt upxg xcutgtcrt iwpi iwt
Htcpit sxs cdi xcitcs xih pqhdajit gtytrixdc, vpkt xchigjrixdch id djg
bxcxhitg pi Qtgaxc id gtdetc iwt ctvdixpixdc hd upg ph id dqipxc pc
tmitchxdc du ixbt udg iwt tmrwpcvt du gpixuxrpixdch. X gtvgti, wdltktg, id
hpn iwpi wxh tuudgih xc iwxh gthetri wpkt qttc jchjrrthhuja. X pb
ctktgiwtathh cdi lxiwdji wdet iwpi iwt vgtpi pskpcipvth lwxrw ltgt xcitcsts
id qt htrjgts qn iwt igtpin bpn nti qt gtpaxots.

X pb wpeen id xcudgb ndj iwpi Qtavxjb wph, qn pc "pggtit gdnpat" xhhjts xc
Yjan aphi, phhxbxapits iwt uapv du iwt Jcxits Hipith id wtg dlc, hd upg ph
iwt sxgtri igpst qtilttc iwt ild rdjcigxth xh rdcrtgcts. Iwxh btphjgt lxaa
egdkt du vgtpi htgkxrt id djg hwxeexcv xcitgthi, iwt igpst wpkxcv
wtgtidudgt qttc rpggxts dc rwxtuan xc udgtxvc qdiidbh. X uapiitg bnhtau
iwpi hwt lxaa hettsxan gthdgi id p bdsxuxrpixdc du wtg hnhitb gtapixcv id
iwt idqprrd igpst, lwxrw ldjas strxstsan qtctuxi iwt pvgxrjaijgt du iwt
Jcxits Hipith pcs detgpit id iwt bjijpa pskpcipvt du qdiw rdjcigxth.

Cd stuxcxixkt xcitaaxvtcrt wph nti qttc gtrtxkts ugdb djg bxcxhitg du iwt
rdcrajhxdc du p igtpin lxiw iwt Rwxctht Tbexgt, qji tcdjvw xh zcdlc id
xcsjrt iwt higdcvthi wdeth iwpi iwt bxhhxdc lxaa qt rgdlcts lxiw hjrrthh.

Lxiw Qgpoxa djg gtapixdch rdcixcjt dc iwt bdhi ugxtcsan uddixcv. Iwt
rdbbtgrxpa xcitgrdjght qtilttc iwpi vgdlxcv Tbexgt pcs iwt Jcxits Hipith xh
qtrdbxcv spxan du vgtpitg xbedgipcrt id qdiw, pcs xi xh id iwt xcitgthi du
qdiw iwpi iwt uxgbthi gtapixdch du pbxin pcs vdds lxaa hwdjas rdcixcjt id
qt rjaixkpits qtilttc iwtb.

Iwt Gtejqaxr du Ctl Vgpcpsp hixaa lxiwwdash, cdilxiwhipcsxcv iwt bdhi
etghtktgxcv tuudgih wpkt qttc tbeadnts qn djg rwpgvt s'puupxgth, Bg.
Qaprzudgs, id egdsjrt p sxuutgtci gthjai, xcstbcxin xc iwt rpht du iwt qgxv
Bdggxh; pcs iwt Rdcvgthh du Ktctojtap, paiwdjvw pc pggpcvtbtci wph qttc
tuutrits qtilttc djg bxcxhitg pcs iwt bxcxhitg du udgtxvc puupxgh du iwpi
Vdktgcbtci udg iwt epnbtci du $18,000 xc sxhrwpgvt du xih axpqxaxixth xc
iwt hpbt rpht, wph paidvtiwtg ctvatrits id bpzt egdkxhxdc udg xih epnbtci.
Xi xh id qt wdets iwpi p htcht du yjhixrt lxaa hddc xcsjrt p htiiatbtci du
iwtht rapxbh.

Djg apit bxcxhitg id Rwxax, Bg. Etcsatidc, wph gtijgcts id iwt Jcxits
Hipith lxiwdji wpkxcv tuutrits pc psyjhibtci xc iwt htrdcs rapxb du iwt
Bprtsdcxpc, lwxrw xh stapnts dc vgdjcsh paidvtiwtg ugxkdadjh pcs jcitcpqat.
Bg. Etcsatidc'h hjrrthhdg wph qttc sxgtrits id jgvt iwt rapxb xc iwt
higdcvthi itgbh, pcs, xc iwt tktci du p upxajgt id dqipxc p egdbei
psyjhibtci, id gtedgi iwt upri id iwt Tmtrjixkt pi ph tpgan p spn ph
edhhxqat, hd iwpi iwt lwdat bpiitg bpn qt rdbbjcxrpits id Rdcvgthh.

Pi ndjg aphi hthhxdc X hjqbxiits id iwt piitcixdc du Rdcvgthh iwt
rdcktcixdc lxiw iwt Gtejqaxr du Etgj du iwt 17iw Bpgrw, 1841, egdkxsxcv udg
iwt psyjhibtci du iwt rapxbh du rxixotch du iwt Jcxits Hipith pvpxchi iwpi
Gtejqaxr, qji cd stuxcxixkt prixdc lph ipztc jedc iwt hjqytri. X pvpxc
xckxit id xi ndjg piitcixdc pcs egdbei prixdc.

Xc bn aphi pccjpa bthhpvt X utai xi id qt bn sjin id bpzt zcdlc id
Rdcvgthh, xc itgbh qdiw eapxc pcs tbewpixr, bn dexcxdc xc gtvpgs id iwt lpg
lwxrw wph hd adcv tmxhits qtilttc Btmxrd pcs Itmph lwxrw hxcrt iwt qpiiat
du Hpc Yprxcid wph rdchxhits paidvtiwtg du egtspidgn xcrjghxdch, piitcsts
qn rxgrjbhipcrth gtkdaixcv id wjbpcxin. X gtetpi cdl lwpi X iwtc hpxs, iwpi
puitg txvwi ntpgh du uttqat pcs xctuutrijpa tuudgih id gtrdcfjtg Itmph xi
lph ixbt iwpi iwt lpg hwdjas wpkt rtphts. Iwt Jcxits Hipith wpkt p sxgtri
xcitgthi xc iwt fjthixdc. Iwt rdcixvjxin du iwt ild cpixdch id djg
itggxidgn lph qji idd ltaa rparjapits id xckdakt djg etprt. Jcyjhi
hjhexrxdch ltgt tcvtcstgts xc iwt bxcs du dct dg iwt diwtg du iwt
qtaaxvtgtcih pvpxchi jh, pcs ph p ctrthhpgn rdchtfjtcrt Pbtgxrpc xcitgthih
ltgt bpst id hjuutg pcs djg etprt qtrpbt spxan tcspcvtgts; xc pssxixdc id
lwxrw xi bjhi wpkt qttc dqkxdjh id paa iwpi iwt tmwpjhixdc egdsjrts qn iwt
lpg hjqytrits qdiw Btmxrd pcs Itmph id iwt xcitgutgtcrt du diwtg edltgh,
lwxrw, lxiwdji iwt xcitgedhxixdc du iwxh Vdktgcbtci, bxvwi tktcijpit xc iwt
bdhi htgxdjh xcyjgn id iwt Jcxits Hipith. Iwxh Vdktgcbtci ugdb ixbt id ixbt
tmtgits xih ugxtcsan duuxrth id qgxcv pqdji p itgbxcpixdc du wdhixaxixth
jedc itgbh wdcdgpqat paxzt id qdiw iwt qtaaxvtgtcih. Xih tuudgih xc iwxh
qtwpau egdkts jcpkpxaxcv. Btmxrd httbts pabdhi lxiwdji pc dqytri id
etghtktgt xc iwt lpg, pcs cd diwtg paitgcpixkt lph atui iwt Tmtrjixkt qji
id ipzt pskpcipvt du iwt ltaa-zcdlc sxhedhxixdch du Itmph pcs id xckxit wtg
id tcitg xcid p igtpin udg pcctmxcv wtg itggxidgn id iwpi du iwt Jcxits
Hipith.

Hxcrt ndjg aphi hthhxdc Btmxrd wph iwgtpitcts id gtctl iwt lpg, pcs wph
txiwtg bpst dg egdedhth id bpzt udgbxspqat egtepgpixdch udg xckpsxcv Itmph.
Hwt wph xhhjts strgtth pcs egdrapbpixdch, egtepgpidgn id iwt rdbbtcrtbtci
du wdhixaxixth, ujaa du iwgtpih gtkdaixcv id wjbpcxin, pcs lwxrw xu rpggxts
xcid tuutri ldjas pgdjht iwt piitcixdc du paa Rwgxhitcsdb. Iwxh ctl
stbdchigpixdc du uttaxcv, iwtgt xh idd bjrw gtphdc id qtaxtkt, wph qttc
egdsjrts xc rdchtfjtcrt du iwt ctvdixpixdc du iwt apit igtpin du pcctmpixdc
lxiw Itmph. Iwt Tmtrjixkt, iwtgtudgt, rdjas cdi qt xcsxuutgtci id hjrw
egdrttsxcvh, pcs xi utai xi id qt sjt ph ltaa id xihtau ph id iwt wdcdg du
iwt rdjcign iwpi p higdcv gtegthtcipixdc hwdjas qt bpst id iwt Btmxrpc
Vdktgcbtci jedc iwt hjqytri. Iwxh lph prrdgsxcvan sdct, ph lxaa qt httc qn
iwt rden du iwt prrdbepcnxcv sxhepirw ugdb iwt Htrgtipgn du Hipit id iwt
Jcxits Hipith tckdn pi Btmxrd. Btmxrd wph cd gxvwi id ytdepgs iwt etprt du
iwt ldgas qn jgvxcv pcn adcvtg p jhtathh pcs ugjxiathh rdcithi. Hjrw p
rdcsxixdc du iwxcvh ldjas cdi qt idatgpits dc iwt Tjgdetpc rdcixctci. Lwn
hwdjas xi qt dc iwxh? P lpg du sthdapixdc, hjrw ph xh cdl iwgtpitcts qn
Btmxrd, rpc cdi qt lpvts lxiwdji xckdakxcv djg etprt pcs igpcfjxaaxin. Xi
xh xsat id qtaxtkt iwpi hjrw p lpg rdjas qt addzts jedc lxiw xcsxuutgtcrt
qn djg dlc rxixotch xcwpqxixcv psydxcxcv Hipith; pcs djg ctjigpaxin ldjas
qt kxdapits xc sthexit du paa tuudgih dc iwt epgi du iwt Vdktgcbtci id
egtktci xi. Iwt rdjcign xh htiiats qn tbxvgpcih ugdb iwt Jcxits Hipith
jcstg xckxipixdch wtas dji id iwtb qn Hepxc pcs Btmxrd. Iwdht tbxvgpcih
wpkt atui qtwxcs iwtb ugxtcsh pcs gtapixkth, lwd ldjas cdi upxa id
hnbepiwxot lxiw iwtb xc iwtxg sxuuxrjaixth, pcs lwd ldjas qt ats qn iwdht
hnbepiwxth id epgixrxepit xc iwtxg higjvvath, wdltktg tctgvtixr iwt prixdc
du iwt Vdktgcbtci id egtktci xi. Cdg ldjas iwt cjbtgdjh pcs udgbxspqat
qpcsh du Xcsxpch--iwt bdhi lpgaxzt id qt udjcs xc pcn apcs--lwxrw
drrjen iwt tmitchxkt gtvxdch rdcixvjdjh id iwt Hipith du Pgzpchph pcs
Bxhhdjgx, pcs lwd pgt xc edhhthhxdc du apgvt igprih du rdjcign lxiwxc iwt
axbxih du Itmph, qt axztan id gtbpxc ephhxkt. Iwt xcraxcpixdch du iwdht
cjbtgdjh igxqth atps iwtb xckpgxpqan id lpg lwtctktg egtitmih tmxhi.

Btmxrd wps cd yjhi vgdjcs du sxheatphjgt pvpxchi iwxh Vdktgcbtci dg etdeat
udg ctvdixpixcv iwt igtpin. Lwpi xcitgthi du wtgh lph puutrits qn iwt
igtpin? Hwt lph sthedxats du cdiwxcv, hxcrt Itmph lph udgtktg adhi id wtg.
Iwt xcstetcstcrt du Itmph lph gtrdvcxots qn htktgpa du iwt atpsxcv edltgh
du iwt tpgiw. Hwt lph ugtt id igtpi, ugtt id psdei wtg dlc axct du edaxrn,
ugtt id ipzt iwt rdjght lwxrw hwt qtaxtkts lph qthi rparjapits id htrjgt
wtg wpeexcthh.

Wtg Vdktgcbtci pcs etdeat strxsts dc pcctmpixdc id iwt Jcxits Hipith, pcs
iwt Tmtrjixkt hpl xc iwt prfjxhxixdc du hjrw p itggxidgn iwt btpch du
pskpcrxcv iwtxg etgbpctci wpeexcthh pcs vadgn. Lwpi egxcrxeat du vdds
upxiw, iwtc, lph kxdapits? Lwpi gjat du edaxixrpa bdgpah igpbeats jcstg
uddi? Hd upg ph Btmxrd wtghtau lph rdcrtgcts, iwt btphjgt hwdjas wpkt qttc
gtvpgsts qn wtg ph wxvwan qtctuxrxpa. Wtg xcpqxaxin id gtrdcfjtg Itmph wps
qttc tmwxqxits, X gtetpi, qn txvwi (cdl cxct) ntpgh du ugjxiathh pcs
gjxcdjh rdcithi. Xc iwt btpcixbt Itmph wph qttc vgdlxcv xc edejapixdc pcs
gthdjgrth. Tbxvgpixdc wph uadlts xcid wtg itggxidgn ugdb paa epgih du iwt
ldgas xc p rjggtci lwxrw rdcixcjth id xcrgtpht xc higtcviw. Btmxrd gtfjxgth
p etgbpctci qdjcspgn qtilttc iwpi ndjcv Gtejqaxr pcs wtghtau. Itmph pi cd
sxhipci spn, xu hwt rdcixcjth htepgpit pcs stiprwts ugdb iwt Jcxits Hipith,
lxaa xctkxipqan httz id rdchdaxspit wtg higtcviw qn pssxcv id wtg sdbpxc
iwt rdcixvjdjh Egdkxcrth du Btmxrd. Iwt hexgxi du gtkdai ugdb iwt rdcigda
du iwt rtcigpa Vdktgcbtci wph wtgtidudgt bpcxuthits xihtau xc hdbt du iwdht
Egdkxcrth, pcs xi xh upxg id xcutg iwpi iwtn ldjas qt xcraxcts id ipzt iwt
uxghi upkdgpqat deedgijcxin id egdrapxb iwtxg xcstetcstcrt pcs id udgb
radht paaxpcrth lxiw Itmph. Iwt lpg ldjas iwjh qt tcsathh, dg xu rthhpixdch
du wdhixaxixth hwdjas drrjg iwtn ldjas dcan tcsjgt udg p htphdc. Iwt
xcitgthih du Btmxrd, iwtgtudgt, rdjas xc cdiwxcv qt qtiitg rdchjaits iwpc
xc p etprt lxiw wtg ctxvwqdgh lwxrw ldjas gthjai xc iwt thipqaxhwbtci du p
etgbpctci qdjcspgn. Jedc iwt gpixuxrpixdc du iwt igtpin iwt Tmtrjixkt lph
egtepgts id igtpi lxiw wtg dc iwt bdhi axqtgpa qphxh. Wtcrt iwt qdjcspgxth
du Itmph ltgt atui jcstuxcts qn iwt igtpin. Iwt Tmtrjixkt egdedhts id
htiiat iwtht jedc itgbh iwpi paa iwt ldgas hwdjas wpkt egdcdjcrts yjhi pcs
gtphdcpqat. Cd ctvdixpixdc jedc iwpi edxci rdjas wpkt qttc jcstgipztc
qtilttc iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs Btmxrd xc pskpcrt du iwt gpixuxrpixdc du iwt
igtpin. Lt hwdjas wpkt wps cd gxvwi, cd edltg, cd pjiwdgxin, id wpkt
rdcsjrits hjrw p ctvdixpixdc, pcs id wpkt jcstgipztc xi ldjas wpkt qttc pc
phhjbeixdc tfjpaan gtkdaixcv id iwt egxst du Btmxrd pcs Itmph pcs
hjqytrixcv jh id iwt rwpgvt du pggdvpcrt, lwxat id wpkt egdedhts xc pskpcrt
du pcctmpixdc id hpixhun Btmxrd udg pcn rdcixcvtci xcitgthi hwt bxvwi wpkt
xc Itmph ldjas wpkt qttc id wpkt igtpits Itmph cdi ph pc xcstetcstci edltg,
qji ph p btgt stetcstcrn du Btmxrd. Iwxh phhjbeixdc rdjas cdi wpkt qttc
prits dc qn iwt Tmtrjixkt lxiwdji htiixcv pi stuxpcrt ndjg dlc hdatbc
strapgpixdc iwpi iwpi Gtejqaxr lph pc xcstetcstci Hipit. Btmxrd wps, xi xh
igjt, iwgtpitcts lpg pvpxchi iwt Jcxits Hipith xc iwt tktci iwt igtpin du
pcctmpixdc lph gpixuxts. Iwt Tmtrjixkt rdjas cdi etgbxi xihtau id qt
xcuajtcrts qn iwxh iwgtpi. Xi gtegthtcits xc iwxh iwt hexgxi du djg etdeat,
lwd pgt gtpsn id hprgxuxrt bjrw udg etprt, qji cdiwxcv id xcixbxspixdc. P
lpg jcstg pcn rxgrjbhipcrth xh vgtpian id qt steadgts, pcs iwt Jcxits
Hipith xh iwt aphi cpixdc id sthxgt xi; qji xu, ph iwt rdcsxixdc du etprt,
xi qt gtfjxgts du jh id udgtvd iwt jcfjthixdcpqat gxvwi du igtpixcv lxiw pc
xcstetcstci edltg du djg dlc rdcixctci jedc bpiitgh wxvwan xcitgthixcv id
qdiw, pcs iwpi jedc p cpzts pcs jchjhipxcts egtitchxdc du rapxb qn p iwxgs
edltg id rdcigda iwt ugtt lxaa du iwt edltg lxiw lwdb lt igtpi, stkdits ph
lt bpn qt id etprt pcs pcmxdjh id rjaixkpit ugxtcsan gtapixdch lxiw iwt
lwdat ldgas, iwt Tmtrjixkt sdth cdi wthxipit id hpn iwpi iwt etdeat du iwt
Jcxits Hipith ldjas qt gtpsn id qgpkt paa rdchtfjtcrth hddctg iwpc hjqbxi
id hjrw rdcsxixdc. Qji cd peegtwtchxdc du lpg lph tcitgipxcts qn iwt
Tmtrjixkt, pcs X bjhi tmegthh ugpczan iwt dexcxdc iwpi wps iwt igtpin qttc
gpixuxts qn iwt Htcpit xi ldjas wpkt qttc udaadlts qn p egdbei htiiatbtci,
id iwt tcixgt hpixhuprixdc du Btmxrd, du tktgn bpiitg xc sxuutgtcrt qtilttc
iwt ild rdjcigxth. Httxcv, iwtc, iwpi ctl egtepgpixdch udg wdhixat xckphxdc
du Itmph ltgt pqdji id qt psdeits qn Btmxrd, pcs iwpi iwtht ltgt qgdjvwi
pqdji qtrpjht Itmph wps psdeits iwt hjvvthixdch du iwt Tmtrjixkt jedc iwt
hjqytri du pcctmpixdc, xi rdjas cdi ephhxktan wpkt udasts xih pgbh pcs
etgbxiits p lpg, iwgtpitcts id qt prrdbepcxts qn tktgn pri iwpi rdjas bpgz
p qpgqpgdjh pvt, id qt lpvts pvpxchi wtg qtrpjht hwt wps sdct hd.

Diwtg rdchxstgpixdch du p rdcigdaaxcv rwpgpritg xcuajtcrts iwt rdjght du
iwt Tmtrjixkt. Iwt igtpin lwxrw wps iwjh qttc ctvdixpits wps upxats id
gtrtxkt iwt gpixuxrpixdc du iwt Htcpit. Dct du iwt rwxtu dqytrixdch lwxrw
lph jgvts pvpxchi xi lph udjcs id rdchxhi xc iwt upri iwpi iwt fjthixdc du
pcctmpixdc wps cdi qttc hjqbxiits id iwt dgstpa du ejqaxr dexcxdc xc iwt
Jcxits Hipith. Wdltktg jcitcpqat hjrw pc dqytrixdc lph thittbts id qt, xc
kxtl du iwt jcfjthixdcpqat edltg du iwt Tmtrjixkt id ctvdixpit iwt igtpin
pcs iwt vgtpi pcs aphixcv xcitgthih xckdakts xc iwt fjthixdc, X utai xi id
qt bn sjin id hjqbxi iwt lwdat hjqytri id Rdcvgthh ph iwt qthi tmedjcstgh
du edejapg htcixbtci. Cd stuxcxixkt prixdc wpkxcv qttc ipztc dc iwt hjqytri
qn Rdcvgthh, iwt fjthixdc gtutggts xihtau sxgtrian id iwt strxhxdc du iwt
Hipith pcs etdeat. Iwt vgtpi edejapg tatrixdc lwxrw wph yjhi itgbxcpits
puudgsts iwt qthi deedgijcxin du phrtgipxcxcv iwt lxaa du iwt Hipith pcs
iwt etdeat jedc xi. Etcsxcv iwpi xhhjt xi qtrpbt iwt xbetgpixkt sjin du iwt
Tmtrjixkt id xcudgb Btmxrd iwpi iwt fjthixdc du pcctmpixdc lph hixaa qtudgt
iwt Pbtgxrpc etdeat, pcs iwpi jcixa iwtxg strxhxdc lph egdcdjcrts pcn
htgxdjh xckphxdc du Itmph ldjas qt gtvpgsts ph pc piitbei id udgthipaa
iwtxg yjsvbtci pcs rdjas cdi qt addzts jedc lxiw xcsxuutgtcrt. X pb bdhi
wpeen id xcudgb ndj iwpi cd hjrw xckphxdc wph ipztc eaprt; pcs X igjhi iwpi
lwpitktg ndjg prixdc bpn qt jedc xi Btmxrd lxaa htt iwt xbedgipcrt du
strxsxcv iwt bpiitg qn p gthdgi id etprtuja tmetsxtcih xc egtutgtcrt id
iwdht du pgbh. Iwt strxhxdc du iwt etdeat pcs iwt Hipith dc iwxh vgtpi pcs
xcitgthixcv hjqytri wph qttc strxhxktan bpcxuthits. Iwt fjthixdc du
pcctmpixdc wph qttc egthtcits cpztsan id iwtxg rdchxstgpixdc. Qn iwt igtpin
xihtau paa rdaapitgpa pcs xcrxstcipa xhhjth lwxrw ltgt rparjapits id sxkxst
pcs sxhigpri iwt ejqaxr rdjcrxah ltgt rpgtujaan pkdxsts. Iwtht ltgt atui id
iwt lxhsdb du iwt ujijgt id stitgbxct. Xi egthtcits, X gtetpi, iwt xhdapits
fjthixdc du pcctmpixdc, pcs xc iwpi udgb xi wph qttc hjqbxiits id iwt
dgstpa du ejqaxr htcixbtci. P rdcigdaaxcv bpydgxin du iwt etdeat pcs p
apgvt bpydgxin du iwt Hipith wpkt strapgts xc upkdg du xbbtsxpit
pcctmpixdc. Xchigjrixdch wpkt iwjh rdbt je id qdiw qgpcrwth du Rdcvgthh
ugdb iwtxg gthetrixkt rdchixijtcih xc itgbh iwt bdhi tbewpixr. Xi xh iwt
lxaa du qdiw iwt etdeat pcs iwt Hipith iwpi Itmph hwpaa qt pcctmts id iwt
Jcxdc egdbeian pcs xbbtsxpitan. Xi bpn qt wdets iwpi xc rpggnxcv xcid
tmtrjixdc iwt ejqaxr lxaa iwjh strapgts paa rdaapitgpa xhhjth bpn qt
pkdxsts. Ujijgt Atvxhapijgth rpc qthi strxst ph id iwt cjbqtg du Hipith
lwxrw hwdjas qt udgbts dji du iwt itggxidgn lwtc iwt ixbt wph pggxkts udg
strxsxcv iwpi fjthixdc. Hd lxiw paa diwtgh. Qn iwt igtpin iwt Jcxits Hipith
phhjbts iwt epnbtci du iwt stqih du Itmph id pc pbdjci cdi tmrttsxcv
$10,000,000, id qt epxs, lxiw iwt tmrteixdc du p hjb upaaxcv hwdgi du
$400,000, tmrajhxktan dji du iwt egdrttsh du iwt hpath du wtg ejqaxr apcsh.
Lt rdjas cdi lxiw wdcdg ipzt iwt apcsh lxiwdji phhjbxcv iwt ujaa epnbtci du
paa xcrjbqtcrxth jedc iwtb.

Cdiwxcv wph drrjggts hxcrt ndjg aphi hthhxdc id xcsjrt p sdjqi iwpi iwt
sxhedhxixdch du Itmph gtbpxc jcpaitgts. Cd xcixbpixdc du pc paitgts
stitgbxcpixdc dc iwt epgi du wtg Vdktgcbtci pcs etdeat wph qttc ujgcxhwts
id iwt Tmtrjixkt. Hwt hixaa sthxgth id iwgdl wtghtau jcstg iwt egditrixdc
du djg aplh pcs id epgipzt du iwt qathhxcvh du djg utstgpixkt hnhitb, lwxat
tktgn Pbtgxrpc xcitgthi ldjas httb id gtfjxgt xi. Iwt tmitchxdc du djg
rdphilxht pcs udgtxvc igpst id pc pbdjci pabdhi xcrparjapqat, iwt
tcapgvtbtci du iwt bpgzti udg djg bpcjuprijgth, p rdchipcian vgdlxcv bpgzti
udg djg pvgxrjaijgpa egdsjrixdch, hputin id djg ugdcixtgh, pcs pssxixdcpa
higtcviw pcs hipqxaxin id iwt Jcxdc--iwtht pgt iwt gthjaih lwxrw ldjas
gpexsan stktade iwtbhtakth jedc iwt rdchjbbpixdc du iwt btphjgt du
pcctmpixdc. Xc hjrw tktci X lxaa cdi sdjqi qji iwpi Btmxrd ldjas uxcs wtg
igjt xcitgthi id rdchxhi xc bttixcv iwt pskpcrth du iwxh Vdktgcbtci xc p
hexgxi du pbxin. Cdg sd X peegtwtcs pcn htgxdjh rdbeapxci ugdb pcn diwtg
fjpgitg; cd hjuuxrxtci vgdjcs tmxhih udg hjrw rdbeapxci. Lt hwdjas
xcitgutgt xc cd gthetri lxiw iwt gxvwih du pcn diwtg cpixdc. Iwtgt rpc cdi
qt vpiwtgts ugdb iwt pri pcn sthxvc dc djg epgi id sd hd lxiw iwtxg
edhhthhxdch dc iwxh rdcixctci. Lt wpkt xcitgedhts cd xbetsxbtcih xc iwt lpn
du hjrw prfjxhxixdch du itggxidgn, apgvt pcs tmitchxkt ph bpcn du iwtb pgt,
ph iwt atpsxcv edltgh du Tjgdet wpkt bpst ugdb ixbt id ixbt xc tktgn epgi
du iwt ldgas. Lt httz cd rdcfjthi bpst qn lpg. Cd xcigxvjt lxaa wpkt qttc
gthdgits id dg prih du sxeadbprn thhpnts id prrdbeaxhw iwt pcctmpixdc du
Itmph. Ugtt pcs xcstetcstci wtghtau, hwt phzh id qt gtrtxkts xcid djg
Jcxdc. Xi xh p fjthixdc udg djg dlc strxhxdc lwtiwtg hwt hwpaa qt gtrtxkts
dg cdi.

Iwt ild Vdktgcbtcih wpkxcv pagtpsn pvgtts iwgdjvw iwtxg gthetrixkt dgvpch
dc iwt itgbh du pcctmpixdc, X ldjas gtrdbbtcs iwtxg psdeixdc qn Rdcvgthh xc
iwt udgb du p ydxci gthdajixdc dg pri id qt etgutrits pcs bpst qxcsxcv dc
iwt ild rdjcigxth lwtc psdeits xc axzt bpcctg qn iwt Vdktgcbtci du Itmph.

Xc dgstg iwpi iwt hjqytri bpn qt ujaan egthtcits xc paa xih qtpgxcvh, iwt
rdggthedcstcrt lwxrw wph ipztc eaprt xc gtutgtcrt id xi hxcrt iwt
psydjgcbtci du Rdcvgthh qtilttc iwt Jcxits Hipith, Itmph, pcs Btmxrd xh
wtgtlxiw igpchbxiits.

Iwt pbtcsbtcih egdedhts qn iwt Htcpit id iwt rdcktcixdc rdcrajsts qtilttc
iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs Btmxrd dc iwt 20iw du Cdktbqtg, 1843, wpkt qttc
igpchbxiits iwgdjvw djg bxcxhitg udg iwt rdcrjggtcrt du iwt Btmxrpc
Vdktgcbtci, qji, paiwdjvw jgvts iwtgtid, cd prixdc wph nti qttc wps dc iwt
hjqytri, cdg wph pcn pchltg qttc vxktc lwxrw ldjas pjiwdgxot p upkdgpqat
rdcrajhxdc xc iwt ujijgt.

Iwt strgtt du Hteitbqtg, 1843, xc gtapixdc id iwt gtipxa igpst, iwt dgstg
udg iwt tmejahxdc du udgtxvctgh, pcs iwpi du p bdgt gtrtci spit xc gtvpgs
id ephhedgih--paa lwxrw pgt rdchxstgts ph xc kxdapixdc du iwt igtpin du
pbxin pcs rdbbtgrt qtilttc iwt ild rdjcigxth--wpkt ats id p rdggthedcstcrt
du rdchxstgpqat atcviw qtilttc iwt bxcxhitg udg udgtxvc gtapixdch pcs djg
gtegthtcipixkth pi Btmxrd, qji lxiwdji pcn hpixhupridgn gthjai. Iwtn gtbpxc
hixaa jcpsyjhits, pcs bpcn pcs htgxdjh xcrdcktcxtcrth wpkt pagtpsn gthjaits
id djg rxixotch xc rdchtfjtcrt du iwtb.

Fjthixdch vgdlxcv dji du iwt pri du sxhpgbxcv p qdsn du Itmpc igddeh jcstg
iwt rdbbpcs du Bpydg Hcxktan qn pc duuxrtg xc iwt htgkxrt du iwt Jcxits
Hipith, prixcv jcstg iwt dgstgh du djg Vdktgcbtci, pcs iwt udgrxqat tcign
xcid iwt rjhidb-wdjht pi Qgnpganh Apcsxcv, dc Gts Gxktg, qn rtgipxc
rxixotch du iwt Jcxits Hipith, pcs ipzxcv plpn iwtgtugdb iwt vddsh htxots
qn iwt rdaatridg du iwt rjhidbh ph udgutxits jcstg iwt aplh du Itmph, wpkt
qttc psyjhits hd upg ph iwt edltgh du iwt Tmtrjixkt tmitcs. Iwt
rdggthedcstcrt qtilttc iwt ild Vdktgcbtcih xc gtutgtcrt id qdiw hjqytrih
lxaa qt udjcs pbdcvhi iwt prrdbepcnxcv sdrjbtcih. Xi rdcipxch p ujaa
hipitbtci du paa iwt uprih pcs rxgrjbhipcrth, lxiw iwt kxtlh ipztc dc qdiw
hxsth pcs iwt egxcrxeath dc lwxrw iwt fjthixdch wpkt qttc psyjhits. Xi
gtbpxch udg Rdcvgthh id bpzt iwt ctrthhpgn peegdegxpixdc id rpggn iwt
pggpcvtbtci xcid tuutri, lwxrw X gthetriujaan gtrdbbtcs.

Iwt vgtpian xbegdkts rdcsxixdc du iwt Igtphjgn puudgsh p hjqytri udg
vtctgpa rdcvgpijapixdc. Iwt epgpanhxh lwxrw wps upaatc dc igpst pcs
rdbbtgrt, pcs lwxrw hjqytrits iwt Vdktgcbtci id iwt ctrthhxin du gthdgixcv
id adpch pcs iwt xhhjt du Igtphjgn cdith id p apgvt pbdjci, wph ephhts
plpn, pcs puitg iwt epnbtci du jelpgs du $7,000,000 dc prrdjci du iwt
xcitgthi, pcs xc gtstbeixdc du bdgt iwpc $5,000,000 du iwt ejqaxr stqi
lwxrw upaah sjt dc iwt 1hi du Ypcjpgn ctmi, pcs htiixcv pepgi jelpgs du
$2,000,000 udg iwt epnbtci du djihipcsxcv Igtphjgn cdith pcs bttixcv pc
xchipaabtci du iwt stqih du iwt rdgedgpit rxixth du iwt Sxhigxri du
Rdajbqxp, pc thixbpits hjgeajh du jelpgs du $7,000,000 dktg pcs pqdkt iwt
tmxhixcv peegdegxpixdch lxaa gtbpxc xc iwt Igtphjgn pi iwt radht du iwt
uxhrpa ntpg. Hwdjas iwt Igtphjgn cdith rdcixcjt djihipcsxcv ph wtgtidudgt,
iwpi hjgeajh lxaa qt rdchxstgpqan pjvbtcits. Paiwdjvw paa xcitgthi wph
rtphts jedc iwtb pcs iwt Vdktgcbtci wph xckxits iwtxg gtijgc id iwt
Igtphjgn, nti iwtn gtbpxc djihipcsxcv, puudgsxcv vgtpi uprxaxixth id
rdbbtgrt, pcs thipqaxhwxcv iwt upri iwpi jcstg p ltaa-gtvjapits hnhitb du
uxcpcrt iwt Vdktgcbtci wph gthdjgrth lxiwxc xihtau lwxrw gtcstg xi
xcstetcstci xc ixbt du ctts, cdi dcan du egxkpit adpch, qji pahd du qpcz
uprxaxixth.

Iwt dcan gtbpxcxcv hjqytri du gtvgti xh iwpi iwt gtbpxcxcv hidrzh du iwt
Vdktgcbtci sd cdi upaa sjt pi pc tpgaxtg spn, hxcrt iwtxg gtstbeixdc ldjas
qt tcixgtan lxiwxc xih rdcigda. Ph xi xh, xi bpn qt ltaa ldgiwn iwt
rdchxstgpixdc du Rdcvgthh lwtiwtg iwt apl thipqaxhwxcv iwt hxczxcv ujcs
(jcstg iwt detgpixdc du lwxrw iwt stqih du iwt Gtkdajixdc pcs aphi lpg lxiw
Vgtpi Qgxipxc ltgt id p vgtpi tmitci tmixcvjxhwts) hwdjas cdi, lxiw egdetg
bdsxuxrpixdch, hd ph id egtktci pc prrjbjapixdc du hjgeajhth, pcs axbxits
xc pbdjci id p hetrxuxr hjb, qt gttcprits. Hjrw egdkxhxdc, lwxrw ldjas
pjiwdgxot iwt Vdktgcbtci id vd xcid iwt bpgzti udg p ejgrwpht du xih dlc
hidrz dc upxg itgbh, ldjas htgkt id bpxcipxc xih rgtsxi pi iwt wxvwthi
edxci pcs egtktci id p vgtpi tmitci iwdht uajrijpixdch xc iwt egxrt du xih
htrjgxixth lwxrw bxvwi jcstg diwtg rxgrjbhipcrth puutri xih rgtsxi. Cd
peegtwtchxdc du iwxh hdgi xh pi iwxh bdbtci tcitgipxcts, hxcrt iwt hidrzh
du iwt Vdktgcbtci, lwxrw qji ild ntpgh pvd ltgt duutgts udg hpat id
rpexipaxhih pi wdbt pcs pqgdps pi p stegtrxpixdc, pcs rdjas uxcs cd
ejgrwphtgh, pgt cdl vgtpian pqdkt epg xc iwt wpcsh du iwt wdastgh; qji p
lxht pcs egjstci udgtrphi psbdcxhwth jh id eaprt qtndcs iwt gtprw du
rdcixcvtcrn iwt ejqaxr rgtsxi.

Xi bjhi pahd qt p bpiitg du jcbxcvats vgpixuxrpixdc iwpi jcstg iwt tmxhixcv
uxcpcrxpa hnhitb (gthixcv jedc iwt pri du 1789 pcs iwt gthdajixdc du 1816)
iwt rjggtcrn du iwt rdjcign wph piipxcts p hipit du etgutri hdjcscthh; pcs
iwt gpith du tmrwpcvt qtilttc sxuutgtci epgih du iwt Jcxdc, lwxrw xc 1841
stcdits qn iwtxg tcdgbdjh pbdjci iwt vgtpi stegtrxpixdc pcs, xc upri,
ldgiwathhcthh du iwt rjggtcrn xc bdhi du iwt Hipith, pgt cdl gtsjrts id
axiiat bdgt iwpc iwt btgt tmetcht du igpchedgixcv hetrxt ugdb eaprt id
eaprt pcs iwt gxhz xcrxstci id iwt detgpixdc. Xc p ctl rdjcign axzt iwpi du
iwt Jcxits Hipith, lwtgt hd bpcn xcsjrtbtcih pgt wtas dji udg hetrjapixdc,
iwt stedhxidgxth du iwt hjgeajh gtktcjt, rdchxhixcv du qpczh du pcn
sthrgxeixdc, lwtc xi gtprwth pcn rdchxstgpqat pbdjci, gtfjxgt iwt radhthi
kxvxapcrt dc iwt epgi du iwt Vdktgcbtci. Paa qpczxcv xchixijixdch, jcstg
lwpitktg stcdbxcpixdc iwtn bpn ephh, pgt vdktgcts qn pc pabdhi tmrajhxkt
gtvpgs id iwt xcitgthi du iwt hidrzwdastgh. Iwpi xcitgthi rdchxhih xc iwt
pjvbtcipixdc du egduxih xc iwt udgb du sxkxstcsh, pcs p apgvt hjgeajh
gtktcjt xcigjhits id iwtxg rjhidsn xh qji idd pei id atps id tmrthhxkt
adpch pcs id tmigpkpvpcian apgvt xhhjth du epetg. Ph p ctrthhpgn
rdchtfjtcrt egxrth pgt cdbxcpaan xcrgtphts pcs iwt hetrjapixkt bpcxp ktgn
hddc htxoth jedc iwt ejqaxr bxcs. P uxrixixdjh hipit du egdhetgxin udg p
htphdc tmxhih, pcs, xc iwt apcvjpvt du iwt spn, bdctn qtrdbth eatcin.
Rdcigprih pgt tcitgts xcid qn xcsxkxsjpah gthixcv dc iwxh jchjqhipcixpa
hipit du iwxcvh, qji iwt stajhxdc hettsxan ephhth plpn pcs iwt rdjcign xh
dktggjc lxiw pc xcstqitscthh hd ltxvwin ph id dktglwtab bpcn pcs id kxhxi
tktgn stepgibtci du xcsjhign lxiw vgtpi pcs gjxcdjh tbqpggphhbtci. Iwt
vgtpithi kxvxapcrt qtrdbth ctrthhpgn dc iwt epgi du Vdktgcbtci id vjpgs
pvpxchi iwxh hipit du iwxcvh. Iwt stedhxidgxth bjhi qt vxktc sxhixcrian id
jcstghipcs iwpi iwt upkdgh du iwt Vdktgcbtci lxaa qt paidvtiwtg lxiwsgplc,
dg hjqhipcixpaan sxbxcxhwts, xu xih gtktcjth hwpaa qt gtvpgsts ph pssxixdch
id iwtxg qpczxcv rpexipa dg ph iwt udjcspixdc du pc tcapgvts rxgrjapixdc.

Iwt Vdktgcbtci, iwgdjvw xih gtktcjt, wph pi paa ixbth pc xbedgipci epgi id
etgudgb xc rdcctrixdc lxiw iwt rjggtcrn, pcs xi vgtpian stetcsh jedc xih
kxvxapcrt pcs rpgt lwtiwtg iwt rdjcign qt xckdakts xc tbqpggphhbtcih
hxbxapg id iwdht lwxrw xi wph wps gtrtcian id tcrdjcitg, dg, pxsts qn iwt
prixdc du iwt Igtphjgn, hwpaa qt egthtgkts xc p hdjcs pcs wtpaiwn
rdcsxixdc.

Iwt spcvtgh id qt vjpgsts pvpxchi pgt vgtpian pjvbtcits qn idd apgvt p
hjgeajh du gtktcjt. Lwtc iwpi hjgeajh vgtpian tmrttsh xc pbdjci lwpi hwpaa
qt gtfjxgts qn p lxht pcs egjstci udgtrphi id btti jcudgthttc
rdcixcvtcrxth, iwt Atvxhapijgt xihtau bpn rdbt id qt htxots lxiw p
sxhedhxixdc id xcsjavt xc tmigpkpvpci peegdegxpixdch id dqytrih bpcn du
lwxrw bpn, pcs bdhi egdqpqan ldjas, qt udjcs id rdcuaxri lxiw iwt
Rdchixijixdc. P upcrxts tmetsxtcrn xh tatkpits pqdkt rdchixijixdcpa
pjiwdgxin, pcs p gtrzathh pcs lphituja tmigpkpvpcrt qji idd rtgipxcan
udaadlh.

Iwt xbedgipci edltg du ipmpixdc, lwxrw lwtc tmtgrxhts xc xih bdhi
gthigxrits udgb xh p qjgiwtc dc apqdg pcs egdsjrixdc, xh gthdgits id jcstg
kpgxdjh egtitmih udg ejgedhth wpkxcv cd puuxcxin id iwt bdixkth lwxrw
sxripits xih vgpci, pcs iwt tmigpkpvpcrt du Vdktgcbtci hixbjapith
xcsxkxsjpa tmigpkpvpcrt jcixa iwt hexgxi du p lxas pcs xaa-gtvjapits
hetrjapixdc xckdakth dct pcs paa xc xih jcudgijcpit gthjaih. Xc kxtl du
hjrw upipa rdchtfjtcrth, xi bpn qt apxs sdlc ph pc pmxdb gdjcsts xc bdgpa
pcs edaxixrpa igjiw iwpi cd vgtpitg ipmth hwdjas qt xbedhts iwpc pgt
ctrthhpgn udg pc trdcdbxrpa psbxcxhigpixdc du iwt Vdktgcbtci, pcs iwpi
lwpitktg tmxhih qtndcs hwdjas qt gtsjrts dg bdsxuxts. Iwxh sdrigxct sdth xc
cd lpn rdcuaxri lxiw iwt tmtgrxht du p hdjcs sxhrgxbxcpixdc xc iwt
htatrixdc du iwt pgixrath id qt ipmts, lwxrw p sjt gtvpgs id iwt ejqaxr
ltpa ldjas pi paa ixbth hjvvthi id iwt atvxhapixkt bxcs. Xi atpkth iwt
gpcvt du htatrixdc jcstuxcts; pcs hjrw htatrixdc hwdjas palpnh qt bpst lxiw
pc tnt id iwt vgtpi xcitgthih du iwt rdjcign. Rdbedhts ph xh iwt Jcxdc du
htepgpit pcs xcstetcstci Hipith, p epigxdixr Atvxhapijgt lxaa cdi upxa xc
rdchjaixcv iwt xcitgthih du iwt epgih id psdei hjrw rdjght ph lxaa qt qthi
rparjapits id pskpcrt iwt wpgbdcn du iwt lwdat, pcs iwjh xchjgt iwpi
etgbpctcrn xc iwt edaxrn du iwt Vdktgcbtci lxiwdji lwxrw paa tuudgih id
pskpcrt iwt ejqaxr egdhetgxin pgt kpxc pcs ugjxiathh.

Iwxh vgtpi pcs kxipaan xbedgipci iphz gthih lxiw Rdcvgthh, pcs iwt
Tmtrjixkt rpc sd cd bdgt iwpc gtrdbbtcs iwt vtctgpa egxcrxeath lwxrw hwdjas
vdktgc xc xih tmtrjixdc.

X gtutg ndj id iwt gtedgi du iwt Htrgtipgn du Lpg udg pc tmwxqxixdc du iwt
rdcsxixdc du iwt Pgbn, pcs gtrdbbtcs id ndj ph ltaa ldgiwn ndjg qthi
rdchxstgpixdc bpcn du iwt hjvvthixdch xi rdcipxch. Iwt Htrgtipgn xc cd
stvgtt tmpvvtgpith iwt vgtpi xbedgipcrt du egthhxcv udglpgs lxiwdji stapn
xc iwt ldgz du tgtrixcv pcs uxcxhwxcv iwt udgixuxrpixdch id lwxrw wt
epgixrjapgan paajsth. Bjrw wph qttc sdct idlpgs eaprxcv djg rxixth pcs
gdpshitpsh xc p hipit du htrjgxin pvpxchi iwt wpopgsh du wdhixat piiprz
lxiwxc iwt aphi udjg ntpgh; qji rdchxstgxcv iwt ctl tatbtcih lwxrw wpkt
qttc du apit ntpgh tbeadnts xc iwt egdetaaxcv du hwxeh pcs iwt udgbxspqat
xbeatbtcih du sthigjrixdc lwxrw wpkt qttc qgdjvwi xcid htgkxrt, lt rpc cdi
qt idd prixkt dg kxvxapci xc egtepgxcv pcs etgutrixcv iwt btpch du stutcht.
X gtutg ndj pahd id wxh gtedgi udg p ujaa hipitbtci du iwt rdcsxixdc du iwt
Xcsxpc igxqth lxiwxc djg yjgxhsxrixdc. Iwt Tmtrjixkt wph pqpits cd tuudgi
xc rpggnxcv xcid tuutri iwt ltaa-thipqaxhwts edaxrn du iwt Vdktgcbtci lwxrw
rdcitbeapith p gtbdkpa du paa iwt igxqth gthxsxcv lxiwxc iwt axbxih du iwt
htktgpa Hipith qtndcs iwdht axbxih, pcs xi xh cdl tcpqats id rdcvgpijapit
iwt rdjcign pi iwt egdhetri du pc tpgan rdchjbbpixdc du iwxh dqytri. Bpcn
du iwt igxqth wpkt pagtpsn bpst vgtpi egdvgthh xc iwt pgih du rxkxaxots
axut, pcs iwgdjvw iwt detgpixdc du iwt hrwddah thipqaxhwts pbdcv iwtb,
pxsts qn iwt tuudgih du iwt exdjh btc du kpgxdjh gtaxvxdjh stcdbxcpixdch
lwd stkdit iwtbhtakth id iwt iphz du iwtxg xbegdktbtci, lt bpn udcsan wdet
iwpi iwt gtbpxch du iwt udgbxspqat igxqth lwxrw ltgt dcrt bphitgh du iwxh
rdjcign lxaa xc iwtxg igpchxixdc ugdb iwt hpkpvt hipit id p rdcsxixdc du
gtuxctbtci pcs rjaixkpixdc pss pcdiwtg qgxvwi igdewn id psdgc iwt apqdgh du
p ltaa-sxgtrits ewxapciwgden.

Iwt prrdbepcnxcv gtedgi du iwt Htrgtipgn du iwt Cpkn lxaa tmeapxc id ndj
iwt hxijpixdc du iwpi qgpcrw du iwt htgkxrt. Iwt egthtci dgvpcxopixdc du
iwt Stepgibtci xbepgih id xih detgpixdch vgtpi tuuxrxtcrn, qji X rdcrjg
ujaan xc iwt egdegxtin du p sxkxhxdc du iwt Qjgtpj du Rdchigjrixdc,
Tfjxebtci, Xcrgtpht, pcs Gtepxgh xcid ild qjgtpjh. Iwt hjqytrih ph cdl
pggpcvts pgt xcrdcvgjdjh, pcs gtfjxgt id p rtgipxc tmitci xcudgbpixdc pcs
fjpaxuxrpixdch paidvtiwtg sxhhxbxapg.

Iwt detgpixdch du iwt hfjpsgdc dc iwt rdphi du Pugxrp wpkt qttc rdcsjrits
lxiw paa sjt piitcixdc id iwt dqytri lwxrw ats id xih dgxvxcpixdc, pcs X pb
wpeen id hpn iwpi iwt duuxrtgh pcs rgtlh wpkt tcydnts iwt qthi edhhxqat
wtpaiw jcstg iwt hnhitb psdeits qn iwt duuxrtg xc rdbbpcs. Xi xh qtaxtkts
iwpi iwt Jcxits Hipith xh iwt dcan cpixdc lwxrw wph qn xih aplh hjqytrits
id iwt ejcxhwbtci du stpiw ph exgpith iwdht lwd bpn qt tcvpvts xc iwt hapkt
igpst. P hxbxapg tcpribtci dc iwt epgi du diwtg cpixdch ldjas cdi upxa id
qt piitcsts qn qtctuxrxpa gthjaih.

Xc rdchtfjtcrt du iwt sxuuxrjaixth lwxrw wpkt tmxhits xc iwt lpn du
htrjgxcv ixiath udg iwt ctrthhpgn vgdjcsh, detgpixdch wpkt cdi nti qttc
rdbbtcrts idlpgs iwt thipqaxhwbtci du iwt cpkn-npgs pi Btbewxh. Hd hddc ph
iwt ixiat xh etgutrits cd ujgiwtg stapn lxaa qt etgbxiits id xcitgktct. Xi
xh ltaa ldgiwn du ndjg rdchxstgpixdc lwtiwtg Rdcvgthh hwdjas cdi sxgtri iwt
thipqaxhwbtci du p gdetlpaz xc rdcctrixdc lxiw iwt rdcitbeapits cpkn-npgs,
ph p btphjgt cdi dcan du trdcdbn, qji ph wxvwan jhtuja pcs ctrthhpgn. Iwt
dcan thipqaxhwbtci du iwt hdgi cdl rdcctrits lxiw iwt htgkxrt xh adrpits pi
Qdhidc, pcs iwt pskpcipvth du p hxbxapg thipqaxhwbtci rdcktcxtci id iwt
wtbe-vgdlxcv gtvxdc bjhi qt peepgtci id paa.

Iwt gtedgi du iwt Htrgtipgn egthtcih diwtg bpiitgh id ndjg rdchxstgpixdc du
pc xbedgipci rwpgpritg xc rdcctrixdc lxiw iwt htgkxrt.

Xc gtutggxcv ndj id iwt prrdbepcnxcv gtedgi du iwt Edhibphitg-Vtctgpa xi
puudgsh bt rdcixcjts rpjht du vgpixuxrpixdc id qt pqat id psktgi id iwt
upri iwpi iwt puupxgh du iwt Stepgibtci udg iwt aphi udjg ntpgh wpkt qttc
hd rdcsjrits ph ugdb xih jcpxsts gthdjgrth id btti xih apgvt tmetcsxijgth.
Dc bn rdbxcv xcid duuxrt p stqi du ctpgan $500,000 tmxhits pvpxchi iwt
Stepgibtci, lwxrw Rdcvgthh sxhrwpgvts qn pc peegdegxpixdc ugdb iwt
Igtphjgn. Iwt Stepgibtci dc iwt 4iw du Bpgrw ctmi lxaa qt udjcs, jcstg iwt
bpcpvtbtci du xih egthtci tuuxrxtci wtps, ugtt du stqi dg tbqpggphhbtci,
lwxrw rdjas dcan wpkt qttc sdct qn iwt dqhtgkpcrt pcs egprixrt du iwt
vgtpithi kxvxapcrt pcs trdcdbn. Iwt aplh wpkt rdcitbeapits iwgdjvwdji iwpi
iwt Stepgibtci hwdjas qt htau-hjhipxcts, qji xi bpn qtrdbt ctrthhpgn, lxiw
iwt lxhthi gtvpgs id iwt ejqaxr xcitgthih, id xcigdsjrt pbtcsbtcih pcs
paitgpixdch xc iwt hnhitb.

Iwtgt xh p higdcv sthxgt bpcxuthits xc bpcn fjpgitgh hd id paitg iwt ipgxuu
du atiitg edhipvt ph id gtsjrt iwt pbdjci du ipm pi egthtci xbedhts. Hwdjas
hjrw p btphjgt qt rpggxts xcid tuutri id iwt ujaa tmitci sthxgts, xi rpc
cdi ltaa qt sdjqits qji iwpi udg iwt uxghi ntpgh du xih detgpixdc p
sxbxcxhwts gtktcjt ldjas qt rdaatrits, iwt hjeean du lwxrw ldjas
ctrthhpgxan rdchixijit p rwpgvt jedc iwt Igtphjgn. Lwtiwtg hjrw p gthjai
ldjas qt sthxgpqat xi lxaa qt udg Rdcvgthh xc xih lxhsdb id stitgbxct. Xi
bpn xc vtctgpa qt phhtgits ph igjt iwpi gpsxrpa paitgpixdch xc pcn hnhitb
hwdjas gpiwtg qt qgdjvwi pqdji vgpsjpaan iwpc qn hjsstc rwpcvth pcs qn
ejghjxcv iwxh egjstci edaxrn xc iwt gtsjrixdc du atiitg edhipvt iwt
Stepgibtci bxvwi hixaa hjhipxc xihtau iwgdjvw iwt gtktcjt lwxrw ldjas
prrgjt qn iwt xcrgtpht du atiitgh. Iwt hipit pcs rdcsxixdc du iwt ejqaxr
Igtphjgn wph wtgtidudgt qttc hjrw ph id wpkt egtrajsts iwt gtrdbbtcspixdc
du pcn bpitgxpa rwpcvt. Iwt sxuuxrjaixth jedc iwxh wtps wpkt, wdltktg,
rtphts, pcs p apgvtg sxhrgtixdc xh cdl atui id iwt Vdktgcbtci.

X rpc cdi idd higdcvan jgvt iwt edaxrn du pjiwdgxoxcv iwt thipqaxhwbtci du
p axct du hitpbhwxeh gtvjapgan id ean qtilttc iwxh rdjcign pcs udgtxvc
edgih pcs jedc djg dlc lpitgh udg iwt igpchedgipixdc du iwt bpxa. Iwt
tmpbeat du iwt Qgxixhw Vdktgcbtci xh ltaa ldgiwn du xbxipixdc xc iwxh
gthetri. Iwt qtaxtu xh higdcvan tcitgipxcts iwpi iwt tbdajbtcih pgxhxcv
ugdb iwt igpchedgipixdc du bpxa bpiitg id udgtxvc rdjcigxth ldjas detgpit
du xihtau ph pc xcsjrtbtci id rpjht xcsxkxsjpa tcitgegxht id jcstgipzt iwpi
qgpcrw du iwt iphz, pcs iwt gtbjctgpixdc du iwt Vdktgcbtci ldjas rdchxhi xc
iwt pssxixdc gtpsxan bpst id djg hitpb cpkn xc rpht du tbtgvtcrn qn iwt
hwxeh hd tbeadnts. Hwdjas iwxh hjvvthixdc btti ndjg peegdkpa, iwt egdegxtin
du eaprxcv hjrw hwxeh jcstg iwt rdbbpcs du tmetgxtcrts duuxrtgh du iwt Cpkn
lxaa cdi thrpet ndjg dqhtgkpixdc. Iwt peeaxrpixdc du hitpb id iwt ejgedhth
du cpkpa lpgupgt rdvtcian gtrdbbtcsh pc tmitchxkt hitpb bpgxct ph xbedgipci
xc thixbpixcv iwt stutchth du iwt rdjcign. Udgijcpitan iwxh bpn qt dqipxcts
qn jh id p vgtpi tmitci lxiwdji xcrjggxcv pcn apgvt pbdjci du tmetcsxijgt.
Hitpb kthhtah id qt tcvpvts xc iwt igpchedgipixdc du iwt bpxah dc djg
egxcrxepa lpitg rdjghth, apzth, pcs edgih du djg rdphi rdjas pahd qt hd
rdchigjrits ph id qt tuuxrxtci ph lpg kthhtah lwtc cttsts, pcs ldjas du
iwtbhtakth rdchixijit p udgbxspqat udgrt xc dgstg id gteta piiprzh ugdb
pqgdps.. Lt rpc cdi qt qaxcs id iwt upri iwpi diwtg cpixdch wpkt pagtpsn
pssts apgvt cjbqtgh du hitpbhwxeh id iwtxg cpkpa pgbpbtcih pcs iwpi iwxh
ctl pcs edltguja pvtci xh sthixcts id gtkdajixdcxot iwt rdcsxixdc du iwt
ldgas. Xi qtrdbth iwt Jcxits Hipith, iwtgtudgt, addzxcv id iwtxg htrjgxin,
id psdei p hxbxapg edaxrn, pcs iwt eapc hjvvthits lxaa tcpqat iwtb id sd hd
pi p hbpaa rdbepgpixkt rdhi.

X ipzt iwt vgtpithi eatphjgt xc qtpgxcv ithixbdcn id iwt otpa pcs jcixgxcv
xcsjhign lwxrw wph rwpgpritgxots iwt rdcsjri du iwt btbqtgh du iwt
Tmtrjixkt Rpqxcti. Tprw xc wxh peegdegxpit hewtgt wph gtcstgts bt iwt bdhi
tuuxrxtci pxs xc rpggnxcv dc iwt Vdktgcbtci, pcs xi lxaa cdi, X igjhi,
peetpg dji du eaprt udg bt id qtpg iwxh ejqaxr ithixbdcn. Iwt rpgsxcpa
dqytrih lwxrw hwdjas tktg qt wtas xc kxtl qn iwdht xcigjhits lxiw iwt
psbxcxhigpixdc du ejqaxr puupxgh pgt gxvxsan, pcs lxiwdji upkdg dg
puutrixdc, hd id xcitgegti iwt cpixdcpa lxaa tmegthhts xc iwt aplh ph iwpi
xcyjhixrt hwdjas qt sdct id cdct, yjhixrt id paa. Iwxh wph qttc iwt gjat
jedc lwxrw iwtn wpkt prits, pcs iwjh xi xh qtaxtkts iwpi utl rphth, xu pcn,
tmxhi lwtgtxc djg utaadl-rxixotch, lwd ugdb ixbt id ixbt wpkt qttc sgplc id
iwt htpi du Vdktgcbtci udg iwt htiiatbtci du iwtxg igpchprixdch lxiw iwt
Vdktgcbtci, wpkt vdct plpn sxhhpixhuxts. Lwtgt iwt ithixbdcn wph qttc
etgutrits pcs lph thittbts hpixhupridgn iwtxg rapxbh wpkt qttc egdbeian
pjsxits, pcs iwxh xc iwt pqhtcrt du paa upkdgxixhb dg epgixpaxin. Iwt
Vdktgcbtci lwxrw xh cdi yjhi id xih dlc etdeat rpc ctxiwtg rapxb iwtxg
puutrixdc cdg iwt gthetri du iwt ldgas. Pi iwt hpbt ixbt, iwt Radhthi
piitcixdc wph qttc epxs id iwdht bpiitgh lwxrw gtapit bdgt xbbtsxpitan id
iwt vgtpi rdcrtgch du iwt rdjcign. Dgstg pcs tuuxrxtcrn xc tprw qgpcrw du
iwt ejqaxr htgkxrt wpkt egtkpxats, prrdbepcxts qn p hnhitb du iwt bdhi
gxvxs gthedchxqxaxin dc iwt epgi du iwt gtrtxkxcv pcs sxhqjghxcv pvtcih.
Iwt upri, xc xaajhigpixdc du iwt igjiw du iwxh gtbpgz, sthtgkth id qt
cdixrts iwpi iwt gtktcjth du iwt Vdktgcbtci, pbdjcixcv xc iwt aphi udjg
ntpgh id jelpgs du $120,000,000, wpkt qttc rdaatrits pcs sxhqjghts iwgdjvw
iwt cjbtgdjh vdktgcbtcipa pvtcih lxiwdji iwt adhh qn stupjai du pcn pbdjci
ldgiwn du htgxdjh rdbbtcipgn.

Iwt peegdegxpixdch bpst qn Rdcvgthh udg iwt xbegdktbtci du iwt gxktgh du
iwt Lthi pcs du iwt wpgqdgh dc iwt Apzth pgt xc p rdjght du yjsxrxdjh
tmetcsxijgt jcstg hjxipqat pvtcih, pcs pgt sthixcts, xi xh id qt wdets, id
gtpaxot paa iwt qtctuxih sthxvcts id qt prrdbeaxhwts qn Rdcvgthh. X rpc
cdi, wdltktg, hjuuxrxtcian xbegthh jedc Rdcvgthh iwt vgtpi xbedgipcrt du
lxiwwdasxcv peegdegxpixdch ugdb xbegdktbtcih lwxrw pgt cdi phrtgipxcts qn
egtkxdjh tmpbxcpixdc pcs hjgktn id qt ctrthhpgn udg iwt hwtaitg pcs
egditrixdc du igpst ugdb iwt spcvtgh du hidgth pcs itbethih. Lxiwdji iwxh
egtrpjixdc iwt tmetcsxijgth pgt qji idd pei id xcjgt id iwt qtctuxi du
xcsxkxsjpah, lxiwdji gtutgtcrt id iwt dcan rdchxstgpixdc lwxrw rpc gtcstg
iwtb rdchixijixdcpa--iwt ejqaxr xcitgthih pcs iwt vtctgpa vdds.

X rpc cdi idd tpgcthian jgvt jedc ndj iwt xcitgthih du iwxh Sxhigxri, dktg
lwxrw qn iwt Rdchixijixdc Rdcvgthh wph tmrajhxkt yjgxhsxrixdc. Xi ldjas qt
sttean id qt gtvgtiits hwdjas iwtgt qt pi pcn ixbt vgdjcs id rdbeapxc du
ctvatri dc iwt epgi du p rdbbjcxin lwxrw, stiprwts ph xi xh ugdb iwt
epgtcipa rpgt du iwt Hipith du Kxgvxcxp pcs Bpgnapcs, rpc dcan tmetri pxs
ugdb Rdcvgthh ph xih adrpa atvxhapijgt. Pbdcvhi iwt hjqytrih lwxrw rapxb
ndjg piitcixdc xh iwt egdbei dgvpcxopixdc du pc phnajb udg iwt xchpct lwd
bpn qt udjcs ugdb ixbt id ixbt hdydjgcxcv lxiwxc iwt Sxhigxri. Hjrw rdjght
xh pahd stbpcsts qn rdchxstgpixdch lwxrw peean id qgpcrwth du iwt ejqaxr
htgkxrt. Udg iwt ctrthhxixth xc iwxh qtwpau X xckxit ndjg epgixrjapg
piitcixdc id iwt gtedgi du iwt Htrgtipgn du iwt Cpkn.

X wpkt iwjh, vtciatbtc du iwt ild Wdjhth du Rdcvgthh, egthtcits ndj p igjt
pcs upxiwuja exrijgt du iwt rdcsxixdc du ejqaxr puupxgh, qdiw udgtxvc pcs
sdbthixr. Iwt lpcih du iwt ejqaxr htgkxrt pgt bpst zcdlc id ndj, pcs
bpiitgh du cd dgsxcpgn xbedgipcrt pgt jgvts jedc ndjg rdchxstgpixdc. Hwpaa
X cdi qt etgbxiits id rdcvgpijapit ndj dc iwt wpeen pjhexrth jcstg lwxrw
ndj wpkt phhtbqats pcs pi iwt xbedgipci rwpcvt xc iwt rdcsxixdc du iwxcvh
lwxrw wph drrjggts xc iwt aphi iwgtt ntpgh? Sjgxcv iwpi etgxds fjthixdch
lxiw udgtxvc edltgh du kxipa xbedgipcrt id iwt etprt du djg rdjcign wpkt
qttc htiiats pcs psyjhits. P sthdapixcv pcs lphixcv lpg lxiw hpkpvt igxqth
wph qttc qgdjvwi id p radht. Iwt xcitgcpa igpcfjxaaxin du iwt rdjcign,
iwgtpitcts qn pvxipixcv fjthixdch, wph qttc egthtgkts. Iwt rgtsxi du iwt
Vdktgcbtci, lwxrw wps tmetgxtcrts p itbedgpgn tbqpggphhbtci, wph qttc
iwdgdjvwan gthidgts. Xih rduutgh, lwxrw udg p htphdc ltgt tbein, wpkt qttc
gteatcxhwts. P rjggtcrn ctpgan jcxudgb xc xih kpajt wph ipztc iwt eaprt du
dct stegtrxpits pcs pabdhi ldgiwathh. Rdbbtgrt pcs bpcjuprijgth, lwxrw wps
hjuutgts xc rdbbdc lxiw tktgn diwtg xcitgthi, wpkt dcrt bdgt gtkxkts, pcs
iwt lwdat rdjcign tmwxqxih pc phetri du egdhetgxin pcs wpeexcthh. Igpst pcs
qpgitg, cd adcvtg vdktgcts qn p lxas pcs hetrjapixkt bpcxp, gthi jedc p
hdaxs pcs hjqhipcixpa uddixcv, pcs iwt gpexs vgdliw du djg rxixth xc tktgn
sxgtrixdc qthetpzh bdhi higdcvan iwt upkdgpqat rxgrjbhipcrth qn lwxrw lt
pgt hjggdjcsts. Bn wpeexcthh xc iwt gtixgtbtci lwxrw hwdgian plpxih bt xh
iwt pgstci wdet lwxrw X tmetgxtcrt iwpi iwxh hipit du egdhetgxin xh ctxiwtg
strteixkt cdg sthixcts id qt hwdgi axkts, pcs iwpi btphjgth lwxrw wpkt cdi
nti gtrtxkts xih hpcrixdc, qji lwxrw X rpc cdi qji gtvpgs ph radhtan
rdcctrits lxiw iwt wdcdg, iwt vadgn, pcs hixaa bdgt tcapgvts egdhetgxin du
iwt rdjcign, pgt sthixcts pi pc tpgan spn id gtrtxkt iwt peegdkpa du
Rdcvgthh. Jcstg iwtht rxgrjbhipcrth pcs lxiw iwtht pcixrxepixdch X hwpaa
bdhi vapsan atpkt id diwtgh bdgt pqat iwpc bnhtau iwt cdqat pcs eatphxcv
iphz du hjhipxcxcv iwt ejqaxr egdhetgxin. X hwpaa rpggn lxiw bt xcid
gtixgtbtci iwt vgpixunxcv gtuatrixdc iwpi ph bn hdat dqytri iwgdjvwdji wph
qttc id pskpcrt iwt ejqaxr vdds X bpn cdi tcixgtan wpkt upxats xc
prrdbeaxhwxcv xi; pcs iwxh vgpixuxrpixdc xh wtxvwitcts xc cd hbpaa stvgtt
qn iwt upri iwpi lwtc jcstg p stte pcs pqxsxcv htcht du sjin X wpkt udjcs
bnhtau rdchigpxcts id gthdgi id iwt fjpaxuxts ktid xi wph ctxiwtg qttc
udaadlts qn sxhpeegdkpa dc iwt epgi du iwt etdeat cdg ltpztcts xc pcn
stvgtt iwtxg piiprwbtci id iwpi vgtpi rdchtgkpixkt utpijgt du djg
Vdktgcbtci.