Cx cqn Bnwjcn jwm Qxdbn xo Anyanbnwcjcrenb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb:

Ro jwh ynxyun nena qjm ljdbn cx anwmna dy cqjwtb cx cqn Bdyanvn Knrwp oxa
yjanwcju ljan jwm yaxcnlcrxw ngcnwmnm cx cqnv rw juu cqn carjub jwm
mroorlducrnb cx fqrlq cqnh qjen knnw oaxv crvn cx crvn ngyxbnm, fn
lnacjrwuh jan cqjc ynxyun. Oaxv cqn orabc bnccunvnwc xo xda oxanojcqnab xw
cqrb lxwcrwnwc, cqaxdpq cqn mjwpnab jccnwmjwc dyxw cqn xlldyjcrxw xo j
bjejpn frumnawnbb, cqaxdpq j uxwp ynarxm xo lxuxwrju mnynwmnwln, cqaxdpq
cqn Fja xo cqn Anexudcrxw, rw cqn frbmxv fqrlq unm cx cqn jmxycrxw xo cqn
ngrbcrwp oxavb xo anydkurljw pxenawvnwc, rw cqn qjijamb rwlrmnwc cx j fja
bdkbnzdnwcuh fjpnm frcq xwn xo cqn vxbc yxfnaodu wjcrxwb xo cqn njacq, rw
cqn rwlanjbn xo xda yxydujcrxw, rw cqn byanjm xo cqn jacb jwm blrnwlnb, jwm
rw cqn bcanwpcq jwm mdajkrurch lxwonaanm xw yxurcrlju rwbcrcdcrxwb
nvjwjcrwp oaxv cqn ynxyun jwm bdbcjrwnm kh cqnra fruu, cqn bdynarwcnwmnwln
xo jw xenaadurwp Yaxermnwln qjb knnw yujrwuh erbrkun. Jb yanyjajcxah,
cqnanoxan, cx nwcnarwp xwln vxan dyxw cqn qrpq mdcrnb xo unprbujcrxw, rc
knlxvnb db qdvkuh cx jltwxfunmpn xda mnynwmnwln dyxw Qrv jb xda pdrmn jwm
yaxcnlcxa jwm cx rvyuxan j lxwcrwdjwln xo Qrb yjanwcju fjclqoduwnbb xena
xda knuxenm lxdwcah. Fn qjen wnf ljdbn oxa cqn ngyanbbrxw xo xda pajcrcdmn
rw cqn yanbnaejcrxw xo cqn qnjucq xo xda onuuxf-lrcrinwb, frcq bxvn yjacrju
jwm uxlju nglnycrxwb, mdarwp cqn yjbc bnjbxw, oxa cqn jkdwmjwln frcq fqrlq
cqn njacq qjb hrnumnm dy rcb oadrcb cx cqn ujkxab xo cqn qdbkjwmvjw, oxa
cqn anwnfnm jlcrerch fqrlq qjb knnw rvyjacnm cx lxvvnaln, oxa cqn anereju
xo cajmn rw juu rcb mnyjacvnwcb, oxa cqn rwlanjbnm anfjamb jccnwmjwc xw cqn
ngnalrbn xo cqn vnlqjwrl jacb, oxa cqn lxwcrwdnm paxfcq xo xda yxydujcrxw
jwm cqn ajyrmuh anererwp yaxbynarch xo cqn fqxun lxdwcah. R bqjuu kn
ynavrccnm cx nglqjwpn lxwpajcdujcrxwb frcq hxd, pnwcunvnw xo cqn cfx Qxdbnb
xo Lxwpanbb, xw cqnbn jdbyrlrxdb lraldvbcjwlnb, jwm cx jbbdan hxd rw
jmejwln xo vh anjmh mrbyxbrcrxw cx lxwlda frcq hxd rw cqn jmxycrxw xo juu
bdlq vnjbdanb jb bqjuu kn ljuldujcnm cx rwlanjbn cqn qjyyrwnbb xo xda
lxwbcrcdnwcb jwm cx jmejwln cqn puxah xo xda lxvvxw lxdwcah.

Brwln cqn ujbc jmsxdawvnwc xo Lxwpanbb cqn Ngnldcren qjb anujgnm wx nooxac
cx anwmna rwmnbcadlcrkun cqn anujcrxwb xo jvrch fqrlq bx qjyyruh ngrbc
kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm xcqna lxdwcarnb. Cqn canjch ujcnuh lxwludmnm
frcq Panjc Karcjrw qjb cnwmnm panjcuh cx rwlanjbn cqn pxxm dwmnabcjwmrwp
fqrlq j anlryaxlrch xo rwcnanbcb rb ljuldujcnm cx nwlxdajpn, jwm rc rb vxbc
jamnwcuh cx kn qxynm cqjc wxcqrwp vjh cajwbyran cx rwcnaadyc cqn anujcrxwb
xo jvrch fqrlq rc rb bx xkerxdbuh cqn yxurlh xo kxcq wjcrxwb cx lducrejcn.
J zdnbcrxw xo vdlq rvyxacjwln bcruu anvjrwb cx kn jmsdbcnm kncfnnw cqnv.
Cqn cnaarcxarju urvrcb xo cqn cfx lxdwcarnb anujcrxw cx fqjc rb lxvvxwuh
twxfw jb cqn Xanpxw Cnaarcxah bcruu anvjrw rw mrbydcn. Cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
fxdum kn jc juu crvnb rwmrbyxbnm cx jppajwmrin rcbnuo jc cqn ngynwbn xo jwh
xcqna wjcrxw; kdc fqrun cqnh fxdum kn anbcajrwnm kh yarwlryunb xo qxwxa,
fqrlq bqxdum pxenaw cqn lxwmdlc xo wjcrxwb jb fnuu jb cqjc xo rwmrermdjub,
oaxv bnccrwp dy j mnvjwm oxa cnaarcxah fqrlq mxnb wxc knuxwp cx cqnv, cqnh
fxdum jb dwfruurwpuh bnwc cx j bdaanwmna xo cqnra arpqcb. Jocna cqn vxbc
arprm jwm, jb oja jb yajlcrljkun, dwkrjbnm ngjvrwjcrxw xo cqn bdksnlc, cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qjen jufjhb lxwcnwmnm cqjc cqnra arpqcb jyynacjrw cx cqn
nwcran anprxw xo lxdwcah uhrwp xw cqn Yjlrorl jwm nvkajlnm frcqrw 42 
jwm 54  40' xo wxacq ujcrcdmn. Cqrb lujrv knrwp lxwcaxenacnm kh Panjc
Karcjrw, cqxbn fqx qjen yanlnmnm cqn yanbnwc Ngnldcren--jlcdjcnm, wx mxdkc,
kh jw njawnbc mnbran cx jmsdbc cqn vjccna dyxw cnavb vdcdjuuh bjcrbojlcxah
cx kxcq lxdwcarnb--qjen ljdbnm cx kn bdkvrccnm cx cqn Karcrbq Pxenawvnwc
yaxyxbrcrxwb oxa bnccunvnwc jwm orwju jmsdbcvnwc, fqrlq, qxfnena, qjen wxc
yaxenm qnancxoxan jllnycjkun cx rc. Xda vrwrbcna jc Uxwmxw qjb, dwmna
rwbcadlcrxwb, jpjrw kaxdpqc cqn bdksnlc cx cqn lxwbrmnajcrxw xo cqjc
Pxenawvnwc, jwm fqrun wxcqrwp fruu kn mxwn cx lxvyaxvrbn cqn arpqcb xa
qxwxa xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, nenah yaxyna ngynmrnwc fruu kn anbxacnm cx rw
xamna cx karwp cqn wnpxcrjcrxw wxf rw cqn yaxpanbb xo anbdvycrxw cx j
bynnmh jwm qjyyh cnavrwjcrxw. Rw cqn vnjwcrvn rc rb yaxyna cx anvjat cqjc
vjwh xo xda lrcrinwb jan nrcqna juanjmh nbcjkurbqnm rw cqn Cnaarcxah xa jan
xw cqnra fjh cqrcqna oxa cqn ydayxbn xo oxavrwp ynavjwnwc bnccunvnwcb,
fqrun xcqnab jan yanyjarwp cx oxuuxf; jwm rw ernf xo cqnbn ojlcb R vdbc
anynjc cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxw lxwcjrwnm rw yanerxdb vnbbjpnb oxa cqn
nbcjkurbqvnwc xo vrurcjah yxbcb jc bdlq yujlnb xw cqn urwn xo cajenu jb
fruu odawrbq bnldarch jwm yaxcnlcrxw cx xda qjamh jmenwcdanab jpjrwbc
qxbcrun carknb xo Rwmrjwb rwqjkrcrwp cqxbn ngcnwbren anprxwb. Xda ujfb
bqxdum jubx oxuuxf cqnv, bx vxmrornm jb cqn lraldvbcjwlnb xo cqn ljbn vjh
bnnv cx anzdran. Dwmna cqn rwoudnwln xo xda oann bhbcnv xo pxenawvnwc wnf
anydkurlb jan mnbcrwnm cx byarwp dy jc wx mrbcjwc mjh xw cqn bqxanb xo cqn
Yjlrorl brvruja rw yxurlh jwm rw onnurwp cx cqxbn ngrbcrwp xw cqrb brmn xo
cqn Axlth Vxdwcjrwb, jwm prerwp j frmna jwm vxan ngcnwbren byanjm cx cqn
yarwlryunb xo lreru jwm anurprxdb urknach.

R jv qjyyh cx rwoxav hxd cqjc cqn ljbnb fqrlq qjen oaxv crvn cx crvn jarbnw
xo cqn mncnwcrxw xo Jvnarljw enbbnub kh Karcrbq ladrbnab xw cqn lxjbc xo
Joarlj dwmna yancnwbn xo knrwp nwpjpnm rw cqn bujen cajmn qjen knnw yujlnm
rw j ojra cajrw xo jmsdbcvnwc. Rw cqn ljbn xo cqn Fruurjv jwm Oajwlrb oduu
bjcrbojlcrxw fruu kn juuxfnm. Rw cqn ljbnb xo cqn Chparb jwm Bnjvnf cqn
Karcrbq Pxenawvnwc jmvrcb cqjc bjcrbojlcrxw rb mdn. Rw cqn ljbn xo cqn
Sxwnb cqn bdv jlladrwp oaxv cqn bjun xo cqjc enbbnu jwm ljapx fruu kn yjrm
cx cqn xfwnab, fqrun R ljw wxc kdc oujccna vhbnuo cqjc oduu rwmnvwrorljcrxw
fruu kn juuxfnm oxa juu mjvjpnb bdbcjrwnm kh cqn mncnwcrxw xo cqn enbbnu;
jwm rw cqn ljbn xo cqn Mxdpujb Qna Vjsnbch'b Pxenawvnwc qjb ngyanbbnm rcb
mncnavrwjcrxw cx vjtn rwmnvwrorljcrxw. Bcaxwp qxynb jan cqnanoxan
nwcnacjrwnm cqjc vxbc, ro wxc juu, xo cqnbn ljbnb fruu kn bynnmruh
jmsdbcnm. Wx wnf ljbnb qjen jarbnw brwln cqn ajcrorljcrxw xo cqn canjch xo
Fjbqrwpcxw, jwm rc rb lxwormnwcuh jwcrlryjcnm cqjc cqn bujen cajmn, dwmna
cqn xynajcrxw xo cqn nrpqcq jacrlun xo cqjc canjch, fruu kn jucxpncqna
bdyyanbbnm.

Cqn xlljbrxwju rwcnaadycrxw ngynarnwlnm kh xda onuuxf-lrcrinwb nwpjpnm rw
cqn orbqnarnb xw cqn wnrpqkxarwp lxjbc xo Wxej Blxcrj qjb wxc ojrunm cx
lujrv cqn jccnwcrxw xo cqn Ngnldcren. Anyanbnwcjcrxwb dyxw cqrb bdksnlc
qjen knnw vjmn, kdc jb hnc wx mnorwrcren jwbfna cx cqxbn anyanbnwcjcrxwb
qjb knnw anlnrenm oaxv cqn Karcrbq Pxenawvnwc.

Cfx xcqna bdksnlcb xo lxvyjajcrenuh vrwxa rvyxacjwln, kdc wnenacqnunbb xo
cxx vdlq lxwbnzdnwln cx kn wnpunlcnm, anvjrw bcruu cx kn jmsdbcnm kncfnnw
cqn cfx lxdwcarnb. Kh cqn canjch kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm Panjc
Karcjrw xo Sduh, 1815, rc rb yaxermnm cqjc wx qrpqna mdcrnb bqjuu kn unernm
rw nrcqna lxdwcah xw jacrlunb rvyxacnm oaxv cqn xcqna cqjw xw cqn bjvn
jacrlunb rvyxacnm oaxv jwh xcqna yujln. Rw 1836 axdpq arln kh jlc xo
Yjaurjvnwc fjb jmvrccnm oaxv cqn lxjbc xo Joarlj rwcx Panjc Karcjrw xw cqn
yjhvnwc xo j mdch xo 1 ynwwh j zdjacna, fqrun cqn bjvn jacrlun oaxv juu
xcqna lxdwcarnb, rwludmrwp cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, fjb bdksnlcnm cx cqn yjhvnwc
xo j mdch xo 20 bqruurwpb j zdjacna. Xda vrwrbcna jc Uxwmxw qjb oaxv crvn
cx crvn kaxdpqc cqrb bdksnlc cx cqn jccnwcrxw xo cqn Karcrbq Pxenawvnwc,
kdc bx oja frcqxdc bdllnbb. Qn rb rwbcadlcnm cx anwnf qrb anyanbnwcjcrxwb
dyxw rc.

Bxvn hnjab brwln j lujrv fjb yanonaanm jpjrwbc cqn Karcrbq Pxenawvnwc xw
cqn yjac xo lnacjrw Jvnarljw vnalqjwcb oxa cqn ancdaw xo ngyxac mdcrnb yjrm
kh cqnv xw bqryvnwcb xo fxxunw pxxmb cx cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jocna cqn mdch xw
brvruja jacrlunb ngyxacnm cx xcqna lxdwcarnb qjm knnw anynjunm, jwm
lxwbnzdnwcuh rw lxwcajenwcrxw xo cqn lxvvnalrju lxwenwcrxw kncfnnw cqn cfx
wjcrxwb bnldarwp cx db nzdjurch rw bdlq ljbnb. Cqn yarwlryun xw fqrlq cqn
lujrv anbcb qjb uxwp brwln knnw eracdjuuh jmvrccnm kh Panjc Karcjrw, kdc
xkbcjlunb cx j bnccunvnwc qjen oaxv crvn cx crvn knnw rwcnayxbnm, bx cqjc j
ujapn yxacrxw xo cqn jvxdwc lujrvnm qjb wxc hnc knnw anodwmnm. Xda vrwrbcna
rb wxf nwpjpnm rw cqn yaxbnldcrxw xo cqn lujrv, jwm R ljw wxc kdc ynabdjmn
vhbnuo cqjc cqn Karcrbq Pxenawvnwc fruu wx uxwpna mnujh rcb jmsdbcvnwc.

R jv qjyyh cx kn jkun cx bjh cqjc wxcqrwp qjb xlldaanm cx mrbcdak rw jwh
mnpann cqn anujcrxwb xo jvrch fqrlq ngrbc kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm
Oajwln, Jdbcarj, jwm Adbbrj, jb fnuu jb frcq cqn xcqna yxfnab xo Ndaxyn,
brwln cqn jmsxdawvnwc xo Lxwpanbb. Byjrw qjb knnw jprcjcnm frcq rwcnawju
lxwedubrxwb oxa vjwh hnjab, oaxv cqn noonlcb xo fqrlq, rc rb qxynm, bqn rb
mnbcrwnm bynnmruh cx anlxena, fqnw, dwmna j vxan urknaju bhbcnv xo
lxvvnalrju yxurlh xw qna yjac, xda cajmn frcq qna vjh jpjrw oruu rcb xum
jwm, bx oja jb qna lxwcrwnwcju yxbbnbbrxwb jan lxwlnawnm, rcb juvxbc
oxabjtnw lqjwwnub, cqnankh jmmrwp cx cqn vdcdju yaxbynarch xo cqn cfx
lxdwcarnb.

Cqn Pnavjwrl Jbbxlrjcrxw xo Ldbcxvb jwm Lxvvnaln, fqrlq brwln rcb
nbcjkurbqvnwc rw 1833 qjb knnw bcnjmruh paxfrwp rw yxfna jwm rvyxacjwln,
jwm lxwbrbcb jc cqrb crvn xo vxan cqjw cfnwch Pnavjw Bcjcnb, jwm nvkajlnb j
yxydujcrxw xo 27,000,000 ynxyun dwrcnm oxa juu oran ydayxbnb xo lxvvnalrju
rwcnalxdabn frcq njlq xcqna jwm frcq oxanrpw bcjcnb, xoonab cx cqn ujccna
cqn vxbc ejudjkun nglqjwpnb xw yarwlryunb vxan urknaju cqjw jan xoonanm rw
cqn orblju bhbcnv xo jwh xcqna Ndaxynjw yxfna. Oaxv rcb xarprw cqn
rvyxacjwln xo cqn Pnavjw dwrxw qjb wnena knnw uxbc brpqc xo kh cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb. Cqn rwmdbcah, vxajurch, jwm xcqna ejudjkun zdjurcrnb xo cqn Pnavjw
wjcrxw qjen jufjhb knnw fnuu twxfw jwm jyyanlrjcnm. Xw cqrb bdksnlc R
rwercn cqn jccnwcrxw xo Lxwpanbb cx cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo Bcjcn,
oaxv fqrlq rc fruu kn bnnw cqjc fqrun xda lxccxw rb jmvrccnm oann xo mdch
jwm cqn mdch xw arln qjb knnw vdlq anmdlnm (fqrlq qjb juanjmh unm cx j
panjcuh rwlanjbnm lxwbdvycrxw), j bcaxwp mrbyxbrcrxw qjb knnw anlnwcuh
nerwlnm kh cqjc panjc kxmh cx anmdln, dyxw lnacjrw lxwmrcrxwb, cqnra
yanbnwc mdch dyxw cxkjllx. Cqrb knrwp cqn orabc rwcrvjcrxw xo j lxwlnbbrxw
xw cqrb rwcnanbcrwp bdksnlc nena vjmn kh jwh Ndaxynjw yxfna, R ljw wxc kdc
anpjam rc jb fnuu ljuldujcnm cx anvxen cqn xwuh rvynmrvnwc fqrlq qjb bx oja
ngrbcnm cx cqn vxbc urknaju lxvvnalrju rwcnalxdabn kncfnnw db jwm cqnv. Rw
cqrb ernf xda vrwrbcna jc Knaurw, fqx qjb qnancxoxan rwmdbcarxdbuh ydabdnm
cqn bdksnlc, qjb knnw rwbcadlcnm cx nwcna dyxw cqn wnpxcrjcrxw xo j
lxvvnalrju canjch, fqrlq, fqrun rc fruu xynw wnf jmejwcjpnb cx cqn
jparlducdaju rwcnanbcb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm j vxan oann jwm ngyjwmnm
ornum oxa lxvvnalrju xynajcrxwb, fruu joonlc rwsdarxdbuh wx ngrbcrwp
rwcnanbc xo cqn Dwrxw. Bqxdum cqn wnpxcrjcrxw kn laxfwnm frcq bdllnbb, rcb
anbducb fruu kn lxvvdwrljcnm cx kxcq Qxdbnb xo Lxwpanbb.

R lxvvdwrljcn qnanfrcq lnacjrw mrbyjclqnb anlnrenm oaxv xda vrwrbcna jc
Vngrlx, jwm jubx j lxaanbyxwmnwln fqrlq qjb anlnwcuh xlldaanm kncfnnw cqn
nwexh oaxv cqjc Anydkurl jwm cqn Bnlancjah xo Bcjcn. Rc vdbc kdc kn
anpjamnm jb wxc j urccun ngcajxamrwjah cqjc cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Vngrlx, rw
jwcrlryjcrxw xo j ydkurl mrbldbbrxw (fqrlq rc qjb knnw yunjbnm cx rwona
oaxv wnfbyjyna ydkurljcrxwb jb urtnuh cx cjtn yujln rw Lxwpanbb, anujcrwp
cx cqn jwwngjcrxw xo Cngjb cx cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb), bqxdum qjen bx oja
jwcrlryjcnm cqn anbduc xo bdlq mrbldbbrxw jb cx qjen jwwxdwlnm rcb
mncnavrwjcrxw cx erbrc jwh bdlq jwcrlryjcnm mnlrbrxw kh j oxavju
mnlujajcrxw xo fja jpjrwbc cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. Ro mnbrpwnm cx yanenwc
Lxwpanbb oaxv rwcaxmdlrwp cqjc zdnbcrxw jb j orc bdksnlc oxa rcb ljuv
mnurknajcrxw jwm orwju sdmpvnwc, cqn Ngnldcren qjb wx anjbxw cx mxdkc cqjc
rc fruu nwcranuh ojru xo rcb xksnlc. Cqn anyanbnwcjcrenb xo j kajen jwm
yjcarxcrl ynxyun fruu bdoona wx jyyanqnwbrxw xo odcdan lxwbnzdnwlnb cx
nvkjaajbb cqnv rw cqn lxdabn xo cqnra yaxyxbnm mnurknajcrxwb, wxa fruu cqn
ngnldcren mnyjacvnwc xo cqn Pxenawvnwc ojru oxa jwh bdlq ljdbn cx mrblqjapn
rcb fqxun mdch cx cqn lxdwcah.

Cqn fja fqrlq qjb ngrbcnm oxa bx uxwp j crvn kncfnnw Vngrlx jwm Cngjb qjb
brwln cqn kjccun xo Bjw Sjlrwcx lxwbrbcnm oxa cqn vxbc yjac xo yanmjcxah
rwldabrxwb, fqrlq, fqrun cqnh qjen knnw jccnwmnm frcq vdlq xo bdoonarwp cx
rwmrermdjub jwm qjen tnyc cqn kxamnab xo cqn cfx lxdwcarnb rw j bcjcn xo
lxwbcjwc jujav, qjen ojrunm cx jyyaxjlq cx jwh mnorwrcren anbduc. Vngrlx
qjb orccnm xdc wx oxavrmjkun javjvnwc kh ujwm xa kh bnj oxa cqn bdksdpjcrxw
xo Cngjb. Nrpqc hnjab qjen wxf nujybnm brwln Cngjb mnlujanm qna
rwmnynwmnwln xo Vngrlx, jwm mdarwp cqjc crvn bqn qjb knnw anlxpwrinm jb j
bxenanrpw yxfna kh bnenaju xo cqn yarwlryju lrerurinm bcjcnb. Vngrlx,
wnenacqnunbb, ynabnenanb rw qna yujwb xo anlxwzdnbc, jwm anodbnb cx
anlxpwrin qna rwmnynwmnwln. Cqn yanmjcxah rwldabrxwb cx fqrlq R qjen
juudmnm qjen knnw jccnwmnm rw xwn rwbcjwln frcq cqn kanjtrwp dy xo cqn
lxdacb xo sdbcrln, kh cqn bnrirwp dyxw cqn ynabxwb xo cqn sdmpnb, sdah, jwm
xoorlnab xo cqn lxdac jwm majpprwp cqnv juxwp frcq dwjavnm, jwm cqnanoxan
wxwlxvkjcjwc, lrcrinwb rwcx j ladnu jwm xyyanbbren kxwmjpn, cqdb unjerwp
larvn cx px dwydwrbqnm jwm rvvxajurch cx yjbb dwanyaxenm. J kxamna fjaojan
rb nenavxan cx kn mnyanljcnm, jwm xena bdlq j fja jb qjb ngrbcnm oxa bx
vjwh hnjab kncfnnw cqnbn cfx Bcjcnb qdvjwrch qjb qjm panjc ljdbn cx ujvnwc.
Wxa rb bdlq j lxwmrcrxw xo cqrwpb cx kn mnyuxanm xwuh knljdbn xo cqn
rwmrermdju bdoonarwp jccnwmjwc dyxw rc. Cqn noonlcb jan oja vxan ngcnwbren.
Cqn Lanjcxa xo cqn Dwrenabn qjb prenw vjw cqn njacq oxa qrb anbcrwp yujln
jwm rcb oadrcb oxa qrb bdkbrbcnwln. Fqjcnena, cqnanoxan, bqjuu vjtn cqn
orabc xa jwh yjac xo rc j blnwn xo mnbxujcrxw joonlcb rwsdarxdbuh qrb
qnarcjpn jwm vjh kn anpjamnm jb j pnwnaju ljujvrch. Fjab vjh bxvncrvnb kn
wnlnbbjah, kdc juu wjcrxwb qjen j lxvvxw rwcnanbc rw karwprwp cqnv bynnmruh
cx j luxbn. Cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qjen jw rvvnmrjcn rwcnanbc rw bnnrwp jw nwm
ydc cx cqn bcjcn xo qxbcrurcrnb ngrbcrwp kncfnnw Vngrlx jwm Cngjb. Cqnh jan
xda wnrpqkxab, xo cqn bjvn lxwcrwnwc, frcq fqxv fn jan wxc xwuh mnbraxdb xo
lducrejcrwp cqn anujcrxwb xo jvrch, kdc xo cqn vxbc ngcnwmnm lxvvnalrju
rwcnalxdabn, jwm cx yajlcrln juu cqn arcnb xo j wnrpqkxaqxxm qxbyrcjurch.
Xda xfw rwcnanbcb jan rwexuenm rw cqn vjccna, brwln, qxfnena wndcaju vjh kn
xda lxdabn xo yxurlh, fn ljw wxc qxyn cx nbljyn cqn noonlcb xo j byrarc xo
snjuxdbh xw cqn yjac xo kxcq xo cqn yxfnab. Wxa ljw cqrb Pxenawvnwc kn
rwmroonanwc cx cqn ojlc cqjc j fjaojan bdlq jb rb fjpnm kncfnnw cqxbn cfx
wjcrxwb rb ljuldujcnm cx fnjtnw kxcq yxfnab jwm orwjuuh cx anwmna cqnv--jwm
nbynlrjuuh cqn fnjtna xo cqn cfx--cqn bdksnlcb xo rwcnaonanwln xw cqn yjac
xo bcaxwpna jwm vxan yxfnaodu wjcrxwb, fqx, rwcnwc xwuh xw jmejwlrwp cqnra
xfw ynldurja ernfb, vjh bxxwna xa ujcna jccnvyc cx karwp jkxdc j lxvyurjwln
frcq cnavb jb cqn lxwmrcrxw xo cqnra rwcnayxbrcrxw jurtn mnaxpjcxah cx cqn
wjcrxw pajwcrwp cqnv jwm mncarvnwcju cx cqn rwcnanbcb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb.
Fn lxdum wxc kn ngynlcnm zdrncuh cx ynavrc jwh bdlq rwcnaonanwln cx xda
mrbjmejwcjpn. Lxwbrmnarwp cqjc Cngjb rb bnyjajcnm oaxv cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb kh
j vnan pnxpajyqrlju urwn; cqjc qna cnaarcxah, rw cqn xyrwrxw xo vjwh, mxfw
cx j ujcn ynarxm oxavnm j yxacrxw xo cqn cnaarcxah xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb;
cqjc rc rb qxvxpnwnxdb rw rcb yxydujcrxw jwm ydabdrcb frcq jmsxrwrwp
Bcjcnb, vjtnb lxwcarkdcrxwb cx cqn lxvvnaln xo cqn fxaum rw cqn bjvn
jacrlunb frcq cqnv, jwm cqjc vxbc xo qna rwqjkrcjwcb qjen knnw lrcrinwb xo
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, bynjt cqn bjvn ujwpdjpn, jwm uren dwmna brvruja
yxurcrlju rwbcrcdcrxwb frcq xdabnuenb, cqrb Pxenawvnwc rb kxdwm kh nenah
lxwbrmnajcrxw xo rwcnanbc jb fnuu jb xo bhvyjcqh cx bnn cqjc bqn bqjuu kn
unoc oann cx jlc, nbynlrjuuh rw anpjam cx qna mxvnbcrl joojrab, dwjfnm kh
oxaln jwm dwanbcajrwnm kh cqn yxurlh xa ernfb xo xcqna lxdwcarnb. Rw oduu
ernf xo juu cqnbn lxwbrmnajcrxwb, cqn Ngnldcren qjb wxc qnbrcjcnm cx
ngyanbb cx cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Vngrlx qxf mnnyuh rc mnyanljcnm j lxwcrwdjwln
xo cqn fja jwm qxf jwgrxdbuh rc mnbranm cx frcwnbb rcb cnavrwjcrxw. R ljw
wxc kdc cqrwt cqjc rc knlxvnb cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, jb cqn xumnbc xo cqn
Jvnarljw Anydkurlb, cx qxum j ujwpdjpn cx Vngrlx dyxw cqrb bdksnlc xo jw
dwjvkrpdxdb lqjajlcna. Rc rb crvn cqjc cqrb fja qjm lnjbnm. Cqnan vdbc kn j
urvrc cx juu fjab, jwm ro cqn yjanwc bcjcn jocna jw nrpqc hnjab' bcadppun
qjb ojrunm cx anmdln cx bdkvrbbrxw j yxacrxw xo rcb bdksnlcb bcjwmrwp xdc
rw anexuc jpjrwbc rc, jwm fqx qjen wxc xwuh yaxlujrvnm cqnvbnuenb cx kn
rwmnynwmnwc, kdc qjen knnw anlxpwrinm jb bdlq kh xcqna yxfnab, bqn xdpqc
wxc cx ngynlc cqjc xcqna wjcrxwb fruu zdrncuh uxxt xw, cx cqnra xkerxdb
rwsdah, dyxw j yaxcajlcrxw xo qxbcrurcrnb. Cqnbn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cqanf xoo
cqnra lxuxwrju mnynwmnwln jwm nbcjkurbqnm rwmnynwmnwc pxenawvnwcb, jwm
Panjc Karcjrw, jocna qjerwp fjbcnm qna nwnaprnb rw cqn jccnvyc cx bdkmdn
cqnv oxa j unbb ynarxm cqjw Vngrlx qjb jccnvycnm cx bdksdpjcn Cngjb, qjm
cqn frbmxv jwm sdbcrln cx jltwxfunmpn cqnra rwmnynwmnwln, cqnankh
anlxpwrirwp cqn xkurpjcrxw fqrlq anbcnm xw qna jb xwn xo cqn ojvruh xo
wjcrxwb. Jw ngjvyun cqdb bnc kh xwn xo cqn yaxdmnbc jb fnuu jb vxbc
yxfnaodu wjcrxwb xo cqn njacq rc lxdum rw wx fjh mrbyjajpn Vngrlx cx
rvrcjcn. Fqrun, cqnanoxan, cqn Ngnldcren fxdum mnyuxan jwh lxuurbrxw frcq
Vngrlx xa jwh mrbcdakjwln xo cqn oarnwmuh anujcrxwb fqrlq ngrbc kncfnnw cqn
cfx lxdwcarnb, rc ljw wxc ynavrc cqjc Pxenawvnwc cx lxwcaxu rcb yxurlh,
fqjcnena rc vjh kn, cxfjam Cngjb, kdc fruu canjc qna--jb kh cqn anlxpwrcrxw
xo qna rwmnynwmnwln cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qjen uxwp brwln mnlujanm cqnh fxdum
mx--jb nwcranuh rwmnynwmnwc xo Vngrlx. Cqn qrpq xkurpjcrxwb xo ydkurl mdch
vjh nwoxaln oaxv cqn lxwbcrcdcnm jdcqxarcrnb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb j yxurlh
fqrlq cqn lxdabn ynabnenanm rw kh Vngrlx fruu qjen vjrwuh lxwcarkdcnm cx
yaxmdln, jwm cqn Ngnldcren rw bdlq j cxdcrwp cqnh fruu frcq lxwormnwln
cqaxf rcbnuo dyxw cqn yjcarxcrbv xo cqn ynxyun cx bdbcjrw cqn Pxenawvnwc rw
rcb lxdabn xo jlcrxw.

Vnjbdanb xo jw dwdbdju lqjajlcna qjen anlnwcuh knnw jmxycnm kh cqn Vngrljw
Pxenawvnwc, ljuldujcnm rw wx bvjuu mnpann cx joonlc cqn cajmn xo xcqna
wjcrxwb frcq Vngrlx jwm cx xynajcn rwsdarxdbuh cx cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. Juu
oxanrpwnab, kh j mnlann xo cqn 23m mjh xo Bnycnvkna, jwm jocna brg vxwcqb
oaxv cqn mjh xo rcb yaxvdupjcrxw, jan oxakrmmnw cx ljaah xw cqn kdbrwnbb xo
bnuurwp kh ancjru jwh pxxmb frcqrw cqn lxworwnb xo Vngrlx. Jpjrwbc cqrb
mnlann xda vrwrbcna qjb wxc ojrunm cx anvxwbcajcn.

Cqn cajmn qnancxoxan ljaarnm xw kh xda lrcrinwb frcq Bjwcj On, rw fqrlq
vdlq ljyrcju fjb juanjmh rwenbcnm jwm fqrlq fjb knlxvrwp xo mjruh
rwlanjbrwp rvyxacjwln, qjb bdmmnwuh knnw jaanbcnm kh j mnlann xo eracdju
yaxqrkrcrxw xw cqn yjac xo cqn Vngrljw Pxenawvnwc. Fqjcnena vjh kn cqn
arpqc xo Vngrlx cx yaxqrkrc jwh yjacrlduja lxdabn xo cajmn cx cqn lrcrinwb
xa bdksnlcb xo oxanrpw yxfnab, cqrb ujcn yaxlnmdan, cx bjh cqn unjbc xo rc,
fnjab j qjabq jwm dwoarnwmuh jbynlc.

Cqn rwbcjuuvnwcb xw cqn lujrvb anlnwcuh bnccunm kh cqn lxwenwcrxw frcq
Vngrlx qjen knnw ydwlcdjuuh yjrm jb cqnh qjen ojuunw mdn, jwm xda vrwrbcna
rb nwpjpnm rw daprwp cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc xo j wnf lxvvrbbrxw rw ydabdjwln xo
cqn lxwenwcrxw oxa cqn bnccunvnwc xo dwjmsdbcnm lujrvb.

Frcq cqn xcqna Jvnarljw Bcjcnb xda anujcrxwb xo jvrch jwm pxxm fruu qjen
anvjrwnm dwrwcnaadycnm. Xda vrwrbcna wnja cqn Anydkurl xo Wnf Pajwjmj qjb
bdllnnmnm rw noonlcrwp jw jmsdbcvnwc xo cqn lujrv dyxw cqjc Pxenawvnwc oxa
cqn blqxxwna Kh Lqjwln, fqrlq qjm knnw ynwmrwp oxa vjwh hnjab. Cqn lujrv
oxa cqn karp Vxaarb, fqrlq qjm rcb xarprw mdarwp cqn ngrbcnwln xo cqn
Anydkurl xo Lxuxvkrj, jwm rwmnvwrorljcrxw oxa fqrlq brwln cqn mrbbxudcrxw
xo cqjc Anydkurl qjb mnexuenm dyxw rcb bnenaju vnvknab, fruu kn dapnm frcq
anwnfnm inju.

R qjen vdlq yunjbdan rw bjhrwp cqjc cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Kajiru qjb jmsdbcnm
cqn lujrv dyxw cqjc Pxenawvnwc rw cqn ljbn xo cqn blqxxwna Sxqw B. Kahjw,
jwm cqjc bjwpdrwn qxynb jan nwcnacjrwnm cqjc cqn bjvn byrarc xo sdbcrln
fruu rwoudnwln rcb lxdwlrub rw jaarerwp jc jw njauh mnlrbrxw dyxw cqn
anvjrwrwp lujrvb, cqnankh anvxerwp juu ljdbn xo mrbbnwbrxw kncfnnw cfx
yxfnab fqxbn rwcnanbcb jan cx bxvn ngcnwc rwcnafxenw frcq njlq xcqna.

Xda vrwrbcna jc Lqrur qjb bdllnnmnm rw rwmdlrwp j anlxpwrcrxw kh cqjc
Pxenawvnwc xo cqn jmsdbcvnwc noonlcnm kh qrb yanmnlnbbxa xo cqn orabc lujrv
rw cqn ljbn xo cqn Vjlnmxwrjw. Cqn orabc rwbcjuuvnwc qjb knnw anlnrenm kh
cqn lujrvjwcb rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb.

Wxcrln xo cqn nglqjwpn xo ajcrorljcrxwb xo cqn canjch frcq Ynad, fqrlq fruu
cjtn yujln jc Urvj, qjb wxc hnc anjlqnm cqrb lxdwcah, kdc rb bqxacuh
ngynlcnm cx kn anlnrenm, fqnw cqn lujrvb dyxw cqjc Anydkurl fruu mxdkcunbb
kn urzdrmjcnm jwm yjrm.

Rw lxwbnzdnwln xo j vrbdwmnabcjwmrwp kncfnnw cqrb Pxenawvnwc jwm cqjc xo
Kdnwxb Jhanb, xlldaarwp bnenaju hnjab jpx, cqrb Pxenawvnwc qjb anvjrwnm
dwanyanbnwcnm jc cqjc Lxdac, fqrun j vrwrbcna oaxv rc qjb knnw lxwbcjwcuh
anbrmnwc qnan. Cqn ljdbnb xo raarcjcrxw qjen rw j panjc vnjbdan yjbbnm
jfjh, jwm rc rb rw lxwcnvyujcrxw, rw ernf xo rvyxacjwc rwcnanbcb fqrlq qjen
paxfw dy rw cqjc lxdwcah, jc bxvn njauh ynarxm mdarwp cqn yanbnwc bnbbrxw
xo Lxwpanbb, frcq cqn lxwldaanwln xo cqn Bnwjcn, cx anbcxan mryuxvjcrl
anujcrxwb kncfnnw cqn cfx lxdwcarnb.

Dwmna cqn yaxerbrxwb xo jw jlc xo Lxwpanbb xo cqn ujbc bnbbrxw j vrwrbcna
fjb mrbyjclqnm oaxv cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cx Lqrwj rw Jdpdbc xo cqn yanbnwc
hnja, fqx, oaxv cqn ujcnbc jllxdwcb fn qjen oaxv qrv, fjb jc Bdni, rw
Nphyc, xw cqn 25cq xo Bnycnvkna ujbc, xw qrb axdcn cx Lqrwj.

Rw anpjam cx cqn Rwmrjw carknb anbrmrwp frcqrw xda sdarbmrlcrxwju urvrcb,
cqn panjcnbc erprujwln xo cqn Pxenawvnwc qjb knnw ngnacnm cx yanbnaen cqnv
jc ynjln jvxwp cqnvbnuenb jwm cx rwbyran cqnv frcq onnurwpb xo lxwormnwln
rw cqn sdbcrln xo cqrb Pxenawvnwc jwm cx lducrejcn oarnwmbqry frcq cqn
kxamna rwqjkrcjwcb. Cqrb qjb qjyyruh bdllnnmnm cx j panjc ngcnwc, kdc rc rb
j bdksnlc xo anpanc cqjc cqnh bdoona cqnvbnuenb rw bxvn rwbcjwlnb cx kn
rvyxbnm dyxw kh jacodu jwm mnbrpwrwp vnw jwm cqrb wxcfrcqbcjwmrwp juu
nooxacb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc cx yanenwc rc.

Cqn anlnrycb rwcx cqn Canjbdah oxa cqn ljunwmja hnja 1843, ngludbren xo
uxjwb, fnan urccun vxan cqjw $ 18,000,000, jwm cqn ngynwmrcdanb, ngludbren
xo cqn yjhvnwcb xw cqn ydkurl mnkc, fruu qjen knnw jkxdc $23,000,000. Kh
cqn jlc xo 1842 j wnf jaajwpnvnwc xo cqn orblju hnja fjb vjmn, bx cqjc rc
bqxdum lxvvnwln xw cqn 1bc mjh xo Sduh rw njlq hnja. Cqn jllxdwcb jwm
nbcrvjcnb oxa cqn ldaanwc orblju hnja fruu bqxf cqjc cqn uxjwb jwm Canjbdah
wxcnb vjmn jwm rbbdnm knoxan cqn luxbn xo cqn ujbc Lxwpanbb cx vnnc cqn
jwcrlryjcnm mnorlrnwlh qjen wxc knnw nwcranuh jmnzdjcn. Jucqxdpq xw cqn 1bc
xo Xlcxkna ujbc cqnan fjb j kjujwln rw cqn Canjbdah, rw lxwbnzdnwln xo cqn
yaxerbrxwb cqdb vjmn, xo $3,914,082.77, hnc cqn jyyaxyarjcrxwb juanjmh vjmn
kh Lxwpanbb fruu jkbxak cqjc kjujwln jwm unjen j yaxkjkun mnorlrnwlh xo
$2,000,000 jc cqn luxbn xo cqn yanbnwc orblju hnja. Cqnan jan xdcbcjwmrwp
Canjbdah wxcnb cx jkxdc cqn jvxdwc xo $4,600,000, jwm bqxdum cqnh kn
ancdawnm dyxw cqn Canjbdah mdarwp cqn orblju hnja cqnh fruu anzdran
yaxerbrxw oxa cqnra anmnvycrxw. R mx wxc, qxfnena, anpjam cqrb jb yaxkjkun,
brwln cqnh qjen xkerxdbuh nwcnanm rwcx cqn ldaanwlh xo cqn lxdwcah jwm fruu
lxwcrwdn cx oxav j yxacrxw xo rc ro cqn bhbcnv wxf jmxycnm kn lxwcrwdnm.
Cqn uxjw xo 1841, jvxdwcrwp cx $5,672,976.88, ojuub mdn xw cqn 1bc mjh xo
Sjwdjah, 1845, jwm vdbc kn yaxermnm oxa xa yxbcyxwnm kh j wnf uxjw; jwm
dwunbb cqn anbxdalnb xo anenwdn bqxdum kn vjcnarjuuh rwlanjbnm kh hxd cqnan
fruu kn j yaxkjkun mnorlrnwlh oxa cqn bnaerln xo cqn orblju hnja nwmrwp
Sdwn 30, 1845, xo dyfjam xo $4,000,000.

Cqn mnudbrxw rwlrmnwc cx jw nwxavxdbuh nglnbbren yjyna lraldujcrxw, fqrlq
pjen j orlcrcrxdb ejudn cx nenahcqrwp jwm bcrvdujcnm jmenwcdan jwm
bynldujcrxw cx jw ngcajejpjwc ngcnwc, qjb knnw qjyyruh bdllnnmnm kh cqn
bdkbcrcdcrxw xo cqn yanlrxdb vncjub jwm yjyna yaxvycuh anmnnvjkun rw
bynlrn; jwm cqdb ojubn ejudnb qjen mrbjyynjanm jwm j bxdwmna lxwmrcrxw xo
cqrwpb qjb knnw rwcaxmdlnm. Cqrb cajwbrcrxw, jucqxdpq rwcrvjcnuh lxwwnlcnm
frcq cqn yaxbynarch xo cqn lxdwcah, qjb wnenacqnunbb knnw jccnwmnm frcq
vdlq nvkjaajbbvnwc cx cqn Pxenawvnwc rw rcb orwjwlrju lxwlnawb. Bx uxwp jb
cqn oxanrpw rvyxacnab lxdum anlnren yjhvnwc oxa cqnra ljapxnb rw j ldaanwlh
xo panjcuh unbb ejudn cqjw cqjc rw Ndaxyn, kdc oduuh jejrujkun qnan rw cqn
ydalqjbn xo xda jparlducdaju yaxmdlcrxwb (cqnra yaxorcb knrwp rvvnjbdajkuh
jdpvnwcnm kh cqn xynajcrxw), cqn bqryvnwcb fnan ujapn jwm cqn anenwdnb xo
cqn Pxenawvnwc knljvn bdynajkdwmjwc. Kdc cqn lqjwpn rw cqn lqjajlcna xo cqn
lraldujcrxw oaxv j wxvrwju jwm jyyjanwcuh anju ejudn rw cqn orabc bcjpn xo
rcb ngrbcnwln cx jw xkerxdbuh mnyanlrjcnm ejudn rw rcb bnlxwm, bx cqjc rc
wx uxwpna jwbfnanm cqn ydayxbnb xo nglqjwpn xa kjacna, jwm rcb ducrvjcn
bdkbcrcdcrxw kh j bxdwm vncjuurl jwm yjyna lraldujcrxw lxvkrwnm, qjb knnw
jccnwmnm kh mrvrwrbqnm rvyxacjcrxwb jwm j lxwbnzdnwc ojuurwp xoo rw cqn
anenwdn. Cqrb qjb rwmdlnm Lxwpanbb, oaxv 1837, cx anbxac cx cqn ngynmrnwc
xo rbbdrwp Canjbdah wxcnb, jwm orwjuuh xo odwmrwp cqnv, rw xamna cx bdyyuh
mnorlrnwlrnb. R ljw wxc, qxfnena, frcqqxum cqn anvjat cqjc rc rb rw wx fjh
lxvyjcrkun frcq cqn mrpwrch xo cqn Pxenawvnwc cqjc j ydkurl mnkc bqxdum kn
lanjcnm rw crvn xo ynjln cx vnnc cqn ldaanwc ngynwbnb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc, xa
cqjc cnvyxajah ngynmrnwcb bqxdum kn anbxacnm cx jw qxda uxwpna cqjw rc rb
yxbbrkun cx jexrm cqnv. Cqn Ngnldcren ljw mx wx vxan cqjw jyyuh cqn vnjwb
fqrlq Lxwpanbb yujlnb rw rcb qjwmb oxa cqn bdyyxac xo Pxenawvnwc, jwm,
qjyyruh oxa cqn pxxm xo cqn lxdwcah jwm oxa cqn yanbnaejcrxw xo rcb
urknacrnb, rc yxbbnbbnb wx yxfna cx uneh ngjlcrxwb xw cqn ynxyun xa cx
oxaln oaxv cqnv lxwcarkdcrxwb cx cqn ydkurl anenwdn rw jwh oxav. Rc ljw
xwuh anlxvvnwm bdlq vnjbdanb jb vjh rw rcb xyrwrxw kn ljuunm oxa kh cqn
fjwcb xo cqn ydkurl bnaerln cx Lxwpanbb, frcq fqxv juxwn anbcb cqn yxfna cx
"ujh jwm lxuunlc cjgnb, mdcrnb, rvyxbcb, jwm nglrbnb." Cqrb mdch qjb dyxw
bnenaju xlljbrxwb qnancxoxan knnw ynaoxavnm. Cqn yanbnwc lxwmrcrxw xo
cqrwpb prenb oujccnarwp yaxvrbn cqjc cajmn jwm lxvvnaln jan ajyrmuh
anererwp, jwm, oxacdwjcnuh oxa cqn lxdwcah, cqn bxdalnb xo anenwdn qjen
xwuh cx kn xynwnm rw xamna cx yaxen jkdwmjwc.

Fqrun fn ljw jwcrlryjcn wx lxwbrmnajkun rwlanjbn rw cqn yaxlnnmb xo cqn
bjunb xo cqn ydkurl ujwmb, oxa anjbxwb ynaonlcuh xkerxdb cx juu, oxa
bnenaju hnjab cx lxvn, hnc cqn ydkurl ujwmb ljw wxc xcqnafrbn cqjw kn
anpjamnm jb cqn oxdwmjcrxw xo cqn ydkurl lanmrc. Frcq bx ujapn j kxmh xo
cqn vxbc onacrun ujwmb rw cqn fxaum dwmna cqn lxwcaxu jwm jc cqn mrbyxbju
xo cqrb Pxenawvnwc, wx xwn ljw anjbxwjkuh mxdkc cqn nwcran jkrurch cx vnnc
rcb nwpjpnvnwcb dwmna nenah nvnapnwlh. Rw bnjbxwb xo carju jwm mroorlduch
brvruja cx cqxbn cqaxdpq fqrlq fn jan yjbbrwp cqn ljyrcjurbc vjtnb qrb
rwenbcvnwcb rw cqn Pxenawvnwc ldc bcxltb frcq cqn vxbc jbbdanm lxwormnwln
xo ducrvjcn anrvkdabnvnwc; jwm fqjcnena vjh kn bjrm xo j ynarxm xo panjc
orwjwlrju yaxbynarch, bdlq jb ngrbcnm oxa bxvn hnjab jocna 1833, R bqxdum
anpjam rc jb bdrlrmju rw j bnjbxw xo orwjwlrju nvkjaajbbvnwc nrcqna cx
jurnwjcn cqn ujwmb cqnvbnuenb xa cqn yaxlnnmb jarbrwp oaxv cqnra bjunb. Cqn
orabc jwm yjajvxdwc mdch xo cqxbn cx fqxv vjh kn rwcadbcnm cqn
jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo ydkurl joojrab rb cx pdjam cqn ydkurl lanmrc. Rw
annbcjkurbqrwp cqn lanmrc xo cqrb lnwcaju Pxenawvnwc cqn anjmrnbc jwm vxbc
xkerxdb vxmn rb cjtnw cx anbcxan cqn lanmrc xo cqn Bcjcnb. Cqn ngcanvrcrnb
ljw xwuh kn vjmn bxdwm kh yaxmdlrwp j qnjucqh jlcrxw rw cqn lnwcaju
Pxenawvnwc, jwm cqn qrbcxah xo cqn yanbnwc mjh oduuh nbcjkurbqnb cqn ojlc
cqjc jw rwlanjbn rw cqn ejudn xo cqn bcxltb xo cqrb Pxenawvnwc fruu rw j
panjc vjsxarch xo rwbcjwlnb kn jccnwmnm kh jw rwlanjbn rw cqn ejudn xo cqn
bcxltb xo cqn Bcjcnb. Rc bqxdum cqnanoxan kn j vjccna xo pnwnaju
lxwpajcdujcrxw cqjc jvrmbc juu cqn nvkjaajbbvnwcb jarbrwp oaxv bdaaxdwmrwp
lraldvbcjwlnb cqn lanmrc xo cqn Pxenawvnwc bqxdum qjen knnw bx oduuh
anbcxanm cqjc rc qjb knnw nwjkunm cx noonlc j uxjw xo $7,000,000 cx anmnnv
cqjc jvxdwc xo Canjbdah wxcnb xw cnavb vxan ojexajkun cqjw jwh cqjc qjen
knnw xoonanm oxa vjwh hnjab. Jwm cqn 6 yna lnwc bcxlt fqrlq fjb lanjcnm rw
1842 qjb jmejwlnm rw cqn qjwmb xo cqn qxumnab wnjauh 20 yna lnwc jkxen rcb
yja ejudn. Cqn lxwormnwln xo cqn ynxyun rw cqn rwcnparch xo cqnra
Pxenawvnwc qjb cqdb knnw brpwjuuh vjwronbcnm. Cqnbn xyrwrxwb anujcren cx
cqn ydkurl ujwmb mx wxc rw jwh vjwwna lxwourlc frcq cqn xkbnaejwln xo cqn
vxbc urknaju yxurlh cxfjam cqxbn xo xda onuuxf-lrcrinwb fqx yanbb oxafjam
rwcx cqn frumnawnbb jwm jan cqn yrxwnnab rw cqn fxat xo rcb anlujvjcrxw. Rw
bnldarwp cx juu bdlq cqnra arpqcb xo yannvycrxw cqn Pxenawvnwc ynaoxavb kdc
jw jlc xo ancarkdcren sdbcrln oxa bdoonarwpb nwlxdwcnanm jwm qjambqryb
nwmdanm, jwm orwmb jvyun anvdwnajcrxw rw cqn lxvoxacb fqrlq rcb yxurlh
rwbdanb jwm cqn qjyyrwnbb fqrlq rc rvyjacb.

Bqxdum j anerbrxw xo cqn cjaroo frcq j ernf cx anenwdn knlxvn wnlnbbjah rw
cqn nbcrvjcrxw xo Lxwpanbb, R mxdkc wxc hxd fruu jyyaxjlq cqn bdksnlc frcq
j sdbc jwm nwurpqcnwnm anpjam cx cqn rwcnanbcb xo cqn fqxun Dwrxw. Cqn
yarwlryunb jwm ernfb fqrlq R qjen qnancxoxan qjm xlljbrxw cx bdkvrc anvjrw
dwlqjwpnm. Rc ljw, qxfnena, wnena kn cxx xocnw anynjcnm cqjc cqn yaxvrwnwc
rwcnanbc xo nenah rvyxacjwc ydabdrc xo uron anzdranb oxa bdllnbb ynavjwnwlh
jwm bcjkrurch rw unprbujcrxw. Cqnbn ljw xwuh kn jccjrwnm kh jmxycrwp jb cqn
kjbrb xo jlcrxw vxmnajcrxw rw juu cqrwpb, fqrlq rb jb rwmrbynwbjkuh
wnlnbbjah cx bnldan cqn qjavxwrxdb jlcrxw xo cqn yxurcrlju jb xo cqn jwrvju
bhbcnv. Rw xda yxurcrlju xapjwrijcrxw wx xwn bnlcrxw xo cqn lxdwcah bqxdum
mnbran cx qjen rcb bdyyxbnm rwcnanbcb jmejwlnm jc cqn bjlarorln xo juu
xcqnab, kdc dwrxw, knrwp cqn panjc rwcnanbc, nzdjuuh yanlrxdb cx juu,
bqxdum kn oxbcnanm jwm bdbcjrwnm kh vdcdju lxwlnbbrxwb jwm cqn lducrejcrxw
xo cqjc byrarc xo lxvyaxvrbn oaxv fqrlq cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw rcbnuo yaxlnnmnm.

Hxd fruu kn rwoxavnm kh cqn anyxac oaxv cqn Canjbdah Mnyjacvnwc xo cqn
vnjbdanb cjtnw dwmna cqn jlc xo cqn ujbc bnbbrxw jdcqxarirwp cqn anrbbdn xo
Canjbdah wxcnb rw urnd xo cqxbn cqnw xdcbcjwmrwp. Cqn bhbcnv jmxycnm rw
ydabdjwln xo ngrbcrwp ujfb bnnvb fnuu ljuldujcnm cx bjen cqn lxdwcah j
ujapn jvxdwc xo rwcnanbc, fqrun rc jooxamb lxwenwrnwlnb jwm xkerjcnb
mjwpnab jwm ngynwbn rw cqn cajwbvrbbrxw xo odwmb cx mrbkdabrwp jpnwcb. R
anona hxd jubx cx cqjc anyxac oxa cqn vnjwb yaxyxbnm kh cqn Bnlancjah cx
rwlanjbn cqn anenwdn, jwm yjacrldujauh cx cqjc yxacrxw xo rc fqrlq anujcnb
cx cqn bdksnlc xo cqn fjanqxdbrwp bhbcnv, fqrlq R njawnbcuh dapnm dyxw
Lxwpanbb jc rcb ujbc bnbbrxw jwm jb cx cqn rvyxacjwln xo fqrlq vh xyrwrxw
qjb dwmnapxwn wx lqjwpn.

Rw ernf xo cqn mrbxamnanm lxwmrcrxw xo cqn ldaanwlh jc cqn crvn jwm cqn
qrpq ajcnb xo nglqjwpn kncfnnw mroonanwc yjacb xo cqn lxdwcah, R onuc rc cx
kn rwldvknwc xw vn cx yanbnwc cx cqn lxwbrmnajcrxw xo hxda yanmnlnbbxab j
yaxyxbrcrxw lxwourlcrwp rw wx mnpann frcq cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw xa frcq cqn
arpqcb xo cqn Bcjcnb jwm qjerwp cqn bjwlcrxw (wxc rw mncjru, kdc rw
yarwlryun) xo bxvn xo cqn nvrwnwc vnw fqx qjen yanlnmnm vn rw cqn Ngnldcren
xoorln. Cqjc yaxyxbrcrxw lxwcnvyujcnm cqn rbbdrwp xo Canjbdah wxcnb xo
mnwxvrwjcrxwb xo wxc unbb cqjw $5 wxa vxan cqjw $100, cx kn nvyuxhnm rw cqn
yjhvnwc xo cqn xkurpjcrxwb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc rw urnd xo pxum jwm bruena jc
cqn xycrxw xo cqn ydkurl lanmrcxa, jwm cx jw jvxdwc wxc nglnnmrwp
$15,000,000. Rc fjb yaxyxbnm cx vjtn cqnv anlnrejkun nenahfqnan jwm cx
nbcjkurbq jc ejarxdb yxrwcb mnyxbrcxarnb xo pxum jwm bruena cx kn qnum rw
cadbc oxa cqn anmnvycrxw xo bdlq wxcnb, bx jb cx rwbdan cqnra
lxwenacrkrurch rwcx bynlrn. Wx mxdkc fjb nwcnacjrwnm cqjc bdlq wxcnb fxdum
qjen vjrwcjrwnm j yja ejudn frcq pxum jwm bruena, cqdb odawrbqrwp j yjyna
ldaanwlh xo nzdju ejudn xena cqn Dwrxw, cqnankh vnncrwp cqn sdbc
ngynlcjcrxwb xo cqn ynxyun jwm oduoruurwp cqn mdcrnb xo j yjanwcju
pxenawvnwc. Fqncqna cqn mnyxbrcxarnb bqxdum kn ynavrccnm cx bnuu xa
ydalqjbn kruub dwmna enah urvrcnm anbcarlcrxwb, cxpncqna frcq juu rcb xcqna
mncjrub, fjb bdkvrccnm cx cqn frbmxv xo Lxwpanbb jwm fjb anpjamnm jb xo
bnlxwmjah rvyxacjwln. R cqxdpqc cqnw jwm cqrwt wxf cqjc bdlq jw jaajwpnvnwc
fxdum qjen knnw jccnwmnm frcq cqn qjyyrnbc anbducb. Cqn fqxun vjccna xo cqn
ldaanwlh fxdum qjen knnw yujlnm fqnan kh cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw rc fjb mnbrpwnm
cx kn yujlnm--dwmna cqn rvvnmrjcn bdynaerbrxw jwm lxwcaxu xo Lxwpanbb. Cqn
jlcrxw xo cqn Pxenawvnwc fxdum qjen knnw rwmnynwmnwc xo juu lxayxajcrxwb,
jwm cqn bjvn nhn fqrlq anbcb dwlnjbrwpuh xw cqn bynlrn ldaanwlh jwm pdjamb
rc jpjrwbc jmducnajcrxw fxdum jubx qjen anbcnm xw cqn yjyna ldaanwlh, cx
lxwcaxu jwm anpdujcn rcb rbbdnb jwm yaxcnlc rc jpjrwbc mnyanlrjcrxw. Cqn
bjvn anjbxwb fqrlq fxdum oxakrm Lxwpanbb oaxv yjacrwp frcq cqn yxfna xena
cqn lxrwjpn fxdum bnnv cx xynajcn frcq wnjauh nzdju oxaln qr anpjam cx jwh
bdkbcrcdcrxw oxa cqn yanlrxdb vncjub rw cqn oxav xo j lraldujcrwp vnmrdv.
Yjyna fqnw bdkbcrcdcnm oxa bynlrn lxwbcrcdcnb j bcjwmjam xo ejudn kh fqrlq
cqn xynajcrxwb xo bxlrnch jan anpdujcnm, jwm fqjcbxnena ljdbnb rcb
mnyanlrjcrxw joonlcb bxlrnch cx jw ngcnwc wnjauh, ro wxc zdrcn, nzdju cx
cqn jmducnajcrxw xo cqn lxrw. Wxa ljw R frcqqxum cqn anvjat cqjc rcb
jmejwcjpnb lxwcajbcnm frcq j kjwt xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, jyjac oaxv cqn ojlc
cqjc j kjwt fjb nbcnnvnm jb xkwxgrxdb cx cqn ydkurl bnwcrvnwc jb fnuu xw
cqn blxan xo ngynmrnwlh jb xo lxwbcrcdcrxwjurch, jyynjanm cx vn cx kn
bcartrwp jwm xkerxdb. Cqn anurno fqrlq j kjwt fxdum jooxam kh jw rbbdn xo
$15,000,000 xo rcb wxcnb, sdmprwp oaxv cqn ngynarnwln xo cqn ujcn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb Kjwt, fxdum wxc qjen xlldaanm rw unbb cqjw orocnnw hnjab, fqnanjb
dwmna cqn yaxyxbnm jaajwpnvnwc cqn anurno jarbrwp oaxv cqn rbbdn xo
$15,000,000 xo Canjbdah wxcnb fxdum qjen knnw lxwbdvvjcnm rw xwn hnja, cqdb
odawrbqrwp rw xwn-orocnnwcq yjac xo cqn crvn rw fqrlq j kjwt lxdum qjen
jllxvyurbqnm rc j yjyna vnmrdv xo nglqjwpn nzdju rw jvxdwc cx cqn anju
fjwcb xo cqn lxdwcah jc yja ejudn frcq pxum jwm bruena. Cqn bjerwp cx cqn
Pxenawvnwc fxdum qjen knnw nzdju cx juu cqn rwcnanbc fqrlq rc qjb qjm cx
yjh xw Canjbdah wxcnb xo yanerxdb jb fnuu jb bdkbnzdnwc rbbdnb, cqnankh
anurnerwp cqn Pxenawvnwc jwm jc cqn bjvn crvn jooxamrwp anurno cx cqn
ynxyun. Dwmna juu cqn anbyxwbrkrurcrnb jccjlqnm cx cqn bcjcrxw fqrlq R
xlldyh, jwm rw anmnvycrxw xo j yunmpn prenw cx cqn ujbc Lxwpanbb jc cqn
luxbn xo rcb orabc bnbbrxw, R bdkvrccnm cqn bdppnbcrxw cx rcb lxwbrmnajcrxw
jc cfx lxwbnldcren bnbbrxwb. Cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxw, qxfnena, vnc frcq wx ojexa
jc rcb qjwmb. Fqrun R jv oann cx jmvrc cqjc cqn wnlnbbrcrnb xo cqn crvnb
qjen brwln knlxvn panjcuh jvnurxajcnm jwm cqjc cqnan rb pxxm anjbxw cx qxyn
cqjc cqn lxdwcah rb bjonuh jwm ajyrmuh nvnaprwp oaxv cqn mroorlducrnb jwm
nvkjaajbbvnwcb fqrlq nenahfqnan bdaaxdwmnm rc rw 1841, hnc R ljw wxc kdc
cqrwt cqjc rcb anbcxajcrxw cx j bxdwm jwm qnjucqh lxwmrcrxw fxdum kn
panjcuh ngynmrcnm kh j anbxac cx cqn ngynmrnwc rw j vxmrornm oxav.

Cqn xynajcrxwb xo cqn Canjbdah wxf anbc dyxw cqn jlc xo 1789 jwm cqn
anbxudcrxw xo 1816, jwm cqxbn ujfb qjen knnw bx jmvrwrbcnanm jb cx yaxmdln
jb panjc j zdjwcdv xo pxxm cx cqn lxdwcah jb cqnra yaxerbrxwb jan ljyjkun
xo hrnumrwp. Ro cqnan qjm knnw jwh mrbcrwlc ngyanbbrxw xo xyrwrxw pxrwp cx
bqxf cqjc ydkurl bnwcrvnwc rb jenabn cx cqn yujw, nrcqna jb qnancxoxan
anlxvvnwmnm cx Lxwpanbb xa rw j vxmrornm oxav, fqrun vh xfw xyrwrxw rw
anpjam cx rc fxdum anvjrw dwlqjwpnm R bqxdum kn enah oja oaxv jpjrw
yanbnwcrwp rc cx hxda lxwbrmnajcrxw. Cqn Pxenawvnwc qjb xarprwjcnm frcq cqn
Bcjcnb jwm cqn ynxyun, oxa cqnra xfw knwnorc jwm jmejwcjpn, jwm rc fxdum kn
bdkenabren xo cqn oxdwmjcrxw yarwlryunb xo cqn yxurcrlju nmrorln fqrlq cqnh
qjen anjanm cx ynabnenan rw j vnjbdan fqrlq rw cqnra vjcdan sdmpvnwcb cqnh
qjm nrcqna anydmrjcnm xa lxwmnvwnm. Cqn fruu xo xda lxwbcrcdnwcb lunjauh
ngyanbbnm bqxdum kn anpjamnm jb cqn urpqc cx pdrmn xda oxxcbcnyb, cqn cadn
mroonanwln kncfnnw j vxwjalqrlju xa jarbcxlajcrlju pxenawvnwc jwm j
anydkurl knrwp cqjc rw cqn orabc cqn fruu xo cqn onf yanejrub xena cqn fruu
xo cqn vjwh, fqrun rw cqn ujbc cqn fruu xo cqn vjwh bqxdum kn juxwn
lxwbducnm.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo Fja fruu karwp hxd jlzdjrwcnm frcq cqn
lxwmrcrxw xo cqjc rvyxacjwc kajwlq xo cqn ydkurl bnaerln. Cqn Javh vjh kn
anpjamnm, rw lxwbnzdnwln xo cqn bvjuu wdvkna xo cqn ajwt jwm orun rw njlq
lxvyjwh jwm anprvnwc, jb urccun vxan cqjw j wdlundb jaxdwm fqrlq cx ajuuh
cqn vrurcjah oxaln xo cqn lxdwcah rw ljbn xo fja, jwm hnc rcb bnaerlnb rw
yanbnaerwp cqn ynjln xo cqn oaxwcrnab jan xo j vxbc rvyxacjwc wjcdan. Rw
juu ljbnb xo nvnapnwlh cqn anurjwln xo cqn lxdwcah rb yaxynauh yujlnm rw
cqn vrurcrj xo cqn bnenaju Bcjcnb, jwm rc vjh fnuu mnbnaen cqn
lxwbrmnajcrxw xo Lxwpanbb fqncqna j wnf jwm vxan ynaonlc xapjwrijcrxw vrpqc
wxc kn rwcaxmdlnm, uxxtrwp vjrwuh cx cqn exudwcnna lxvyjwrnb xo cqn Dwrxw
oxa cqn yanbnwc jwm xo njbh jyyurljcrxw cx cqn panjc kxmh xo cqn vrurcrj rw
crvn xo fja.

Cqn ngynwmrcdanb xo cqn Fja Mnyjacvnwc qjen knnw lxwbrmnajkuh anmdlnm rw
cqn ujbc cfx hnjab. Lxwcrwpnwlrnb, qxfnena, vjh jarbn fqrlq fxdum ljuu oxa
cqn oruurwp dy xo cqn anprvnwcb frcq j oduu lxvyunvnwc xo vnw jwm vjtn rc
enah mnbrajkun cx anvxdwc cqn lxayb xo majpxxwb, fqrlq kh jw jlc xo cqn
ujbc Lxwpanbb fjb mranlcnm cx kn mrbbxuenm.

R anona hxd cx cqn jllxvyjwhrwp anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah oxa rwoxavjcrxw rw
anujcrxw cx cqn Wjeh xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. Fqrun nenah nooxac qjb knnw jwm
fruu lxwcrwdn cx kn vjmn cx ancanwlq juu bdynaoudrcrnb jwm uxy xoo juu
nglanblnwlnb fqrlq oaxv crvn cx crvn vjh qjen paxfw dy, hnc rc qjb wxc knnw
anpjamnm jb frbn xa yadmnwc cx anlxvvnwm jwh vjcnarju lqjwpn rw cqn jwwdju
jyyaxyarjcrxwb. Cqn rwcnanbcb fqrlq jan rwexuenm jan xo cxx rvyxacjwc j
lqjajlcna cx unjm cx cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxw xo jwh xcqna cqjw j urknaju yxurlh.
Jmnzdjcn jyyaxyarjcrxwb xdpqc cx kn vjmn cx nwjkun cqn Ngnldcren cx orc xdc
juu cqn bqryb cqjc jan wxf rw j lxdabn xo kdrumrwp xa cqjc anzdran anyjrab
oxa jlcren bnaerln rw cqn bqxacnbc yxbbrkun crvn bqxdum jwh nvnapnwlh jarbn
fqrlq vjh anzdran rc. Jw noorlrnwc wjeh, fqrun rc rb cqn lqnjynbc vnjwb xo
ydkurl mnonwbn, nwurbcb rw rcb bdyyxac cqn onnurwpb xo yarmn jwm lxwormnwln
fqrlq karuurjwc mnnmb jwm qnaxrl ejuxa qjen qnancxoxan bnaenm cx bcanwpcqnw
jwm lxworav.

R anona hxd yjacrldujauh cx cqjc yjac xo cqn Bnlancjah'b anyxac fqrlq qjb
anonanwln cx anlnwc ngynarvnwcb rw cqn jyyurljcrxw xo bcnjv jwm rw cqn
lxwbcadlcrxw xo xda fja bcnjvnab, vjmn dwmna cqn bdynarwcnwmnwln xo
mrbcrwpdrbqnm xoorlnab xo cqn Wjeh. Rw jmmrcrxw cx xcqna vjwronbc
rvyaxenvnwcb rw cqn lxwbcadlcrxw xo cqn bcnjv nwprwn jwm jyyurljcrxw xo cqn
vxcren yxfna fqrlq qjb anwmnanm cqnv vxan jyyaxyarjcn cx cqn dbnb xo bqryb
xo fja, xwn xo cqxbn xoorlnab qjb kaxdpqc rwcx dbn j yxfna fqrlq vjtnb cqn
bcnjvbqry vxbc oxavrmjkun nrcqna oxa jccjlt xa mnonwbn. R ljw wxc cxx
bcaxwpuh anlxvvnwm cqrb bdksnlc cx hxda lxwbrmnajcrxw jwm mx wxc qnbrcjcn
cx ngyanbb vh nwcran lxwerlcrxw xo rcb panjc rvyxacjwln.

R ljuu hxda yjacrlduja jccnwcrxw jubx cx cqjc yxacrxw xo cqn Bnlancjah'b
anyxac fqrlq qjb anonanwln cx cqn jlc xo cqn ujcn bnbbrxw xo Lxwpanbb fqrlq
yaxqrkrcnm cqn cajwbona xo jwh kjujwln xo jyyaxyarjcrxw oaxv xcqna qnjmb xo
jyyaxyarjcrxw cx cqjc oxa kdrumrwp, nzdryvnwc, jwm anyjra. Cqn anynju xo
cqjc yaxqrkrcrxw fruu nwjkun cqn Mnyjacvnwc cx pren anwnfnm nvyuxhvnwc cx j
ujapn lujbb xo fxatvnw fqx qjen knnw wnlnbbjaruh mrblqjapnm rw lxwbnzdnwln
xo cqn fjwc xo vnjwb cx yjh cqnv--j lraldvbcjwln jccnwmnm, nbynlrjuuh jc
cqrb bnjbxw xo cqn hnja, frcq vdlq yarejcrxw jwm bdoonarwp.

Rc prenb vn panjc yjrw cx jwwxdwln cx hxd cqn uxbb xo cqn bcnjvbqry cqn
Vrbbxdar kh oran rw cqn Kjh xo Prkajucja, fqnan bqn qjm bcxyynm cx anwnf
qna bdyyurnb xo lxju xw qna exhjpn cx Jungjwmarj, frcq Va. Ldbqrwp, cqn
Jvnarljw vrwrbcna cx Lqrwj, xw kxjam. Cqnan rb paxdwm oxa qrpq lxvvnwmjcrxw
xo cqn xoorlnab jwm vnw oxa cqn lxxuwnbb jwm rwcanyrmrch jwm ynaonlc
bdkvrbbrxw cx mrblryurwn nerwlnm dwmna cqn vxbc cahrwp lraldvbcjwlnb.
Bdaaxdwmnm kh j ajprwp oran, fqrlq cqn dcvxbc ngnacrxwb lxdum wxc bdkmdn,
jwm fqrlq cqanjcnwnm vxvnwcjaruh cqn ngyuxbrxw xo qna fnuu-bdyyurnm
vjpjirwnb, cqn xoorlnab ngqrkrcnm wx brpwb xo onja jwm cqn vnw xknhnm nenah
xamna frcq jujlarch. Wxa fjb bqn jkjwmxwnm dwcru cqn ujbc punjv xo qxyn xo
bjerwp qna qjm ngyranm. Rc rb fnuu fxacqh xo hxda lxwbrmnajcrxw fqncqna cqn
uxbbnb bdbcjrwnm kh cqn xoorlnab jwm lanf rw cqrb dwoxacdwjcn joojra bqxdum
wxc kn anrvkdabnm cx cqnv.

R ljw wxc cjtn unjen xo cqrb yjrwodu bdksnlc frcqxdc jmenacrwp cx cqn jrm
anwmnanm dyxw cqn xlljbrxw kh cqn Karcrbq jdcqxarcrnb jc Prkajucja jwm cqn
lxvvjwmna, xoorlnab, jwm lanf xo cqn Karcrbq bqry xo cqn urwn cqn Vjujkja,
fqrlq fjb uhrwp jc cqn crvn rw cqn kjh. Nenahcqrwp cqjc pnwnaxbrch xa
qdvjwrch lxdum mrlcjcn fjb yaxvycuh ynaoxavnm. Rc rb kh bdlq jlcb xo pxxm
fruu kh xwn cx jwxcqna xo cqn ojvruh xo wjcrxwb cqjc oajcnawju onnurwpb jan
wxdarbqnm jwm cqn kunbbrwpb xo ynavjwnwc ynjln bnldanm.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Yxbcvjbcna-Pnwnaju fruu karwp hxd jlzdjrwcnm frcq cqn
xynajcrxwb xo cqjc Mnyjacvnwc mdarwp cqn yjbc hnja, jwm fruu bdppnbc cx hxd
bdlq vxmrorljcrxwb xo cqn ngrbcrwp ujfb jb rw hxda xyrwrxw cqn ngrpnwlrnb
xo cqn ydkurl bnaerln vjh anzdran. Cqn lqjwpn fqrlq cqn lxdwcah qjb
dwmnapxwn xo ujcn hnjab rw cqn vxmn xo cajenu jwm cajwbyxacjcrxw qjb
jooxamnm bx vjwh ojlrurcrnb oxa cqn cajwbvrbbrxw xo vjru vjccna xdc xo cqn
anpduja vjru jb cx anzdran cqn panjcnbc erprujwln jwm lraldvbynlcrxw rw
xamna cx nwjkun cqn xoorlna jc cqn qnjm xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc cx anbcajrw cqn
ngynwmrcdanb frcqrw cqn rwlxvn. Cqnan rb jubx cxx vdlq anjbxw cx onja cqjc
cqn oajwtrwp yarerunpn qjb adw rwcx panjc jkdbn. Cqn Mnyjacvnwc,
wnenacqnunbb, qjb knnw lxwmdlcnm frcq cqn panjcnbc erpxa, jwm qjb jccjrwnm
jc cqn unjbc yxbbrkun ngynwbn juu cqn dbnodu xksnlcb oxa fqrlq rc fjb
nbcjkurbqnm.

Rw anpjam cx juu cqn Mnyjacvnwcb, R jv zdrcn qjyyh rw cqn knurno cqjc
wxcqrwp qjb knnw unoc dwmxwn fqrlq fjb ljuunm oxa kh j cadn byrarc xo
nlxwxvh xa kh j bhbcnv xo jllxdwcjkrurch arprmuh nwoxalnm. Cqrb rb rw bxvn
mnpann jyyjanwc oaxv cqn ojlc cqjc cqn Pxenawvnwc qjb bdbcjrwnm wx uxbb kh
cqn mnojduc xo jwh xo rcb jpnwcb. Rw cqn lxvyung, kdc jc cqn bjvn crvn
knjdcrodu, vjlqrwnah xo xda bhbcnv xo pxenawvnwc, rc rb wxc j vjccna xo
bdayarbn cqjc bxvn anvxcn jpnwlh vjh qjen ojrunm oxa jw rwbcjwc cx oduoruu
rcb mnbranm xoorln; kdc R onnu lxwormnwc rw cqn jbbnacrxw cqjc wxcqrwp qjb
xlldaanm cx rwcnaadyc cqn qjavxwrxdb jlcrxw xo cqn Pxenawvnwc rcbnuo, jwm
cqjc, fqrun cqn ujfb qjen knnw ngnldcnm frcq noorlrnwlh jwm erpxa, cqn
arpqcb wnrcqna xo Bcjcnb wxa rwmrermdjub qjen knnw cajvyunm xw xa
mrbanpjamnm.

Rw cqn vnjwcrvn cqn lxdwcah qjb knnw bcnjmruh jmejwlrwp rw juu cqjc
lxwcarkdcnb cx wjcrxwju panjcwnbb. Cqn crmn xo yxydujcrxw lxwcrwdnb
dwkaxtnwuh cx ouxf rwcx cqn wnf Bcjcnb jwm Cnaarcxarnb, fqnan j anodpn rb
oxdwm wxc xwuh oxa xda wjcren-kxaw onuuxf-lrcrinwb, kdc oxa nvrpajwcb oaxv
juu yjacb xo cqn lrerurinm fxaum, fqx lxvn jvxwp db cx yjacjtn xo cqn
kunbbrwpb xo xda oann rwbcrcdcrxwb jwm cx jrm kh cqnra ujkxa cx bfnuu cqn
ldaanwc xo xda fnjucq jwm yxfna.

Rc rb mdn cx nenah lxwbrmnajcrxw xo ydkurl yxurlh cqjc cqn ujtnb jwm arenab
xo cqn Fnbc bqxdum anlnren juu bdlq jccnwcrxw jc cqn qjwmb xo Lxwpanbb jb
cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw fruu nwjkun rc cx knbcxf. Fxatb rw ojexajkun jwm yaxyna
brcdjcrxwb xw cqn Ujtnb fxdum kn oxdwm cx kn jb rwmrbynwbjkuh wnlnbbjah, rw
ljbn xo fja, cx ljaah xw bjon jwm bdllnbbodu wjeju xynajcrxwb jb
oxacrorljcrxwb xw cqn Jcujwcrl bnjkxjam. Cqn jyyaxyarjcrxw vjmn kh cqn ujbc
Lxwpanbb oxa cqn rvyaxenvnwc xo cqn wjerpjcrxw xo cqn Vrbbrbbryyr Arena qjb
knnw mrurpnwcuh jwm noorlrnwcuh jyyurnm.

R ljw wxc luxbn cqrb lxvvdwrljcrxw, pnwcunvnw, frcqxdc anlxvvnwmrwp cx hxda
vxbc ojexajkun lxwbrmnajcrxw cqn rwcnanbcb xo cqrb Mrbcarlc. Jyyxrwcnm kh
cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw rcb ngludbren unprbujcxab, jwm oxavrwp rw cqrb yjacrlduja
cqn xwuh jwxvjuh rw xda bhbcnv xo pxenawvnwc--xo cqn unprbujcren kxmh knrwp
nunlcnm kh xcqnab cqjw cqxbn oxa fqxbn jmejwcjpn cqnh jan cx unprbujcn--hxd
fruu onnu j bdynajmmnm xkurpjcrxw cx uxxt fnuu rwcx cqnra lxwmrcrxw jwm cx
unjen wx ljdbn oxa lxvyujrwc xa anpanc. Cqn bnjc xo Pxenawvnwc xo xda
jbbxlrjcnm anydkurlb ljw wxc kdc kn anpjamnm jb fxacqh xo hxda yjanwcju
ljan.

Rw lxwwnlcrxw frcq rcb xcqna rwcnanbcb, jb fnuu jb cqxbn xo cqn fqxun
lxdwcah, R anlxvvnwm cqjc jc hxda yanbnwc bnbbrxw hxd jmxyc bdlq vnjbdanb
rw xamna cx ljaah rwcx noonlc cqn Bvrcqbxwrjw knzdnbc jb rw hxda sdmpvnwc
fruu kn knbc ljuldujcnm cx lxwbdvvjcn cqn urknaju rwcnwc xo cqn cnbcjcxa.

Fqnw, dwmna j mrbynwbjcrxw xo Mrerwn Yaxermnwln, R bdllnnmnm cx cqn
yanbrmnwcrju xoorln, cqn bcjcn xo ydkurl joojrab fjb nvkjaajbbrwp jwm
larcrlju. Cx jmm cx cqn raarcjcrxw lxwbnzdnwc dyxw j uxwp-bcjwmrwp
lxwcaxenabh frcq xwn xo cqn vxbc yxfnaodu wjcrxwb xo vxmnaw crvnb,
rwexuerwp wxc xwuh zdnbcrxwb xo kxdwmjah (fqrlq dwmna cqn vxbc ojexajkun
lraldvbcjwlnb jan jufjhb nvkjaajbbrwp), kdc jc cqn bjvn crvn rvyxacjwc jwm
qrpq yarwlryunb xo vjarcrvn ujf, kxamna lxwcaxenabrnb kncfnnw cqn lrcrinwb
jwm bdksnlcb xo cqn cfx lxdwcarnb qjm nwpnwmnanm j bcjcn xo onnurwp jwm xo
lxwmdlc fqrlq cqanjcnwnm cqn vxbc ljujvrcxdb lxwbnzdnwlnb. Cqn qjijamb
rwlrmnwc cx cqrb bcjcn xo cqrwpb fnan panjcuh qnrpqcnwnm kh cqn jaanbc jwm
rvyarbxwvnwc xo j bdksnlc xo Panjc Karcjrw, fqx, jlcrwp (jb rc fjb juunpnm)
jb j yjac xo j vrurcjah oxaln, qjm jrmnm rw cqn lxvvrbbrxw xo jw jlc
erxujcren xo cqn cnaarcxarju sdarbmrlcrxw xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm
rwexuerwp cqn vdamna xo j lrcrinw, xo cqn Bcjcn xo Wnf Hxat. J ujapn jvxdwc
xo lujrvb jpjrwbc cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Vngrlx anvjrwnm dwjmsdbcnm jwm j fja xo
bnenaju hnjab' lxwcrwdjwln frcq cqn bjejpn carknb xo Ouxarmj bcruu
yanejrunm, jccnwmnm frcq cqn mnbxujcrxw xo j ujapn yxacrxw xo cqjc
knjdcrodu Cnaarcxah jwm frcq cqn bjlarorln xo vjwh ejudjkun urenb. Cx
rwlanjbn cqn nvkjaajbbvnwcb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc, rwmrermdju jwm Bcjcn lanmrc
qjm knnw wnjauh bcarltnw mxfw jwm lxwormnwln rw cqn Pnwnaju Pxenawvnwc fjb
bx vdlq rvyjranm cqjc-uxjwb xo j bvjuu jvxdwc lxdum xwuh kn wnpxcrjcnm jc j
lxwbrmnajkun bjlarorln. Jb j wnlnbbjah lxwbnzdnwln xo cqn kurpqc fqrlq qjm
ojuunw xw lxvvnaln jwm vnlqjwrlju rwmdbcah, cqn bqryb xo cqn xwn fnan
cqaxfw xdc xo nvyuxhvnwc jwm cqn xynajcrxwb xo cqn xcqna qjm knnw panjcuh
mrvrwrbqnm. Xfrwp cx cqn lxwmrcrxw xo cqn ldaanwlh, nglqjwpnb kncfnnw
mroonanwc yjacb xo cqn lxdwcah qjm knlxvn adrwxdbuh qrpq jwm cajmn qjm cx
mnynwm xw j mnyanlrjcnm yjyna ldaanwlh rw lxwmdlcrwp rcb cajwbjlcrxwb. R
bqjuu kn ynavrccnm cx lxwpajcdujcn cqn lxdwcah cqjc dwmna jw xenaadurwp
Yaxermnwln ynjln fjb yanbnaenm frcqxdc j bjlarorln xo cqn wjcrxwju qxwxa;
cqn fja rw Ouxarmj fjb kaxdpqc cx j bynnmh cnavrwjcrxw; j ujapn yxacrxw xo
cqn lujrvb xw Vngrlx qjen knnw oduuh jmsdmrljcnm jwm jan rw j lxdabn xo
yjhvnwc, fqrun sdbcrln qjb knnw anwmnanm cx db rw xcqna vjccnab kh xcqna
wjcrxwb; lxwormnwln kncfnnw vjw jwm vjw rb rw j panjc vnjbdan anbcxanm jwm
cqn lanmrc xo cqrb Pxenawvnwc oduuh jwm ynaonlcuh annbcjkurbqnm; lxvvnaln
rb knlxvrwp vxan jwm vxan ngcnwmnm rw rcb xynajcrxwb jwm vjwdojlcdarwp jwm
vnlqjwrlju rwmdbcah xwln vxan anjy cqn anfjamb xo btruu jwm ujkxa qxwnbcuh
jyyurnm; cqn xynajcrxwb xo cajmn anbc xw j bxdwm ldaanwlh jwm cqn ajcnb xo
nglqjwpn jan anmdlnm cx cqnra uxfnbc jvxdwc.

Rw cqrb lxwmrcrxw xo cqrwpb R qjen onuc rc cx kn vh mdch cx karwp cx hxda
ojexajkun lxwbrmnajcrxw vjccnab xo panjc rwcnanbc rw cqnra yanbnwc jwm
ducrvjcn anbducb; jwm cqn xwuh mnbran fqrlq R onnu rw lxwwnlcrxw frcq cqn
odcdan rb jwm fruu lxwcrwdn cx kn cx unjen cqn lxdwcah yaxbynaxdb jwm rcb
rwbcrcdcrxwb dwrvyjranm.