Utaadl-Rxixotch du iwt Htcpit pcs Wdjht du Gtegthtcipixkth:

Xi xh hdbt pqpitbtci du iwt hpixhuprixdc lxiw lwxrw X btti ndj dc iwt
egthtci drrphxdc iwpi, xc utaxrxipixcv ndj dc p rdcixcjpcrt du iwt cpixdcpa
egdhetgxin vtctgpaan, X pb cdi pqat id pss id xi xcudgbpixdc iwpi iwt
Xcsxpc wdhixaxixth lwxrw wpkt udg hdbt ixbt ephi sxhigthhts djg
Cdgiwlthitgc ugdcixtg wpkt itgbxcpits.

Ndj lxaa, X pb etghjpsts, atpgc lxiw cd athh rdcrtgc iwpc X rdbbjcxrpit xi
iwpi gtxitgpits tcstpkdgh idlpgs tuutrixcv p eprxuxrpixdc wpkt wxiwtgid
xhhjts dcan xc ctl pcs djigpvtdjh egdduh du etghtktgxcv wdhixaxin dc iwt
epgi du iwt igxqth lxiw lwdb lt pgt xc rdcithi. Pc tpgcthi sthxgt id
egdrjgt igpcfjxaaxin id iwt ugdcixtg, id hide iwt ujgiwtg tuujhxdc du
qadds, id pggthi iwt egdvgthh du tmetcht, id udglpgs iwt egtkpatci lxhw du
iwt cpixdc udg etprt wph ats id higtcjdjh tuudgih iwgdjvw kpgxdjh rwpcctah
id prrdbeaxhw iwtht sthxgpqat ejgedhth; xc bpzxcv lwxrw tuudgih X rdchjaits
athh bn dlc pcixrxepixdch du iwt tktci, dg iwt hrgjeath lwxrw hdbt
rdchxstgpixdch ltgt rparjapits id xchexgt, iwpc iwt lxhw id uxcs iwt dqytri
piipxcpqat, dg xu cdi piipxcpqat, id phrtgipxc jctfjxkdrpaan iwpi hjrw xh
iwt rpht.

P stipxa du iwt btphjgth lwxrw wpkt qttc ejghjts pcs du iwtxg rdchtfjtcrth,
lwxrw lxaa qt apxs qtudgt ndj, lwxat xi lxaa rdcuxgb id ndj iwt lpci du
hjrrthh iwjh upg, lxaa, X igjhi, tkxcrt iwpi btpch ph egdetg pcs ph
tuuxrprxdjh ph rdjas wpkt qttc stkxhts wpkt qttc tbeadnts. Iwt xhhjt du
hdbt du iwtb, xcstts, xh hixaa stetcsxcv, qji p upkdgpqat dct, iwdjvw cdi
id qt sthepxgts du, xh cdi egdbxhts qn pcniwxcv iwpi wph nti wpeetcts.

Xc iwt rdjght du iwt piitbeih lwxrw wpkt qttc bpst hdbt kpajpqat rxixotch
wpkt upaatc kxrixbh id iwtxg otpa udg iwt ejqaxr htgkxrt. P hpcrixdc
rdbbdcan gthetrits tktc pbdcv hpkpvth wph qttc udjcs xc iwxh xchipcrt
xchjuuxrxtci id egditri ugdb bphhprgt iwt tbxhhpgxth du etprt. Xi lxaa, X
egthjbt, qt sjan rdchxstgts lwtiwtg iwt drrphxdc sdth cdi rpaa udg pc
tmtgrxht du axqtgpaxin idlpgs iwt upbxaxth du iwt strtphts.

Xi bjhi pss id ndjg rdcrtgc id qt xcudgbts iwpi, qthxsth iwt rdcixcjpixdc
du wdhixat peetpgpcrth pbdcv iwt igxqth cdgiw du iwt Dwxd, hdbt iwgtpitcxcv
hnbeidbh wpkt du apit qttc gtkxkts pbdcv hdbt du iwdht hdjiw du xi.

P epgi du iwt Rwtgdztth, zcdlc qn iwt cpbt du Rwxrzpbpjvph, xcwpqxixcv uxkt
kxaapvth dc iwt Itccthhtt Gxktg, wpkt adcv qttc xc iwt egprixrt du
rdbbxiixcv stegtspixdch dc iwt ctxvwqdgxcv htiiatbtcih.

Xi lph wdets iwpi iwt igtpin du Wdahidc, bpst lxiw iwt Rwtgdztt Cpixdc xc
Yjan, 1791, ldjas wpkt egtktcits p gtetixixdc du hjrw stegtspixdch; qji iwt
tktci wph cdi pchltgts iwxh wdet. Iwt Rwxrzpbpjvph, pxsts qn hdbt qpcsxiix
du pcdiwtg igxqt xc iwtxg kxrxcxin, wpkt gtrtcian etgetigpits lpcidc pcs
jcegdkdzts wdhixaxixth jedc iwt rxixotch du iwt Jcxits Hipith xc iwpi
fjpgitg. Iwt xcudgbpixdc lwxrw wph qttc gtrtxkts dc iwxh hjqytri lxaa qt
apxs qtudgt ndj. Wxiwtgid stutchxkt egtrpjixdch dcan wpkt qttc higxrian
tcydxcts pcs dqhtgkts.

Xi xh cdi jcstghidds iwpi pcn qgtprw du igtpin dg pvvgthhxdc lwpihdtktg dc
iwt epgi du iwt Jcxits Hipith dg iwtxg rxixotch xh tktc paatvts ph p
egtitmi udg iwt hexgxi du wdhixaxin xc iwxh fjpgitg.

X wpkt gtphdc id qtaxtkt iwpi tktgn egprixrpqat tmtgixdc wph qttc bpst
(ejghjpci id iwt egdkxhxdc qn apl udg iwpi ejgedht) id qt egtepgts udg iwt
paitgcpixkt du p egdhtrjixdc du iwt lpg xc iwt tktci du p upxajgt du
eprxuxr dktgijgth. P apgvt egdedgixdc du iwt igddeh pjiwdgxots id qt gpxhts
wpkt qttc gtrgjxits, iwdjvw iwt cjbqtg xh hixaa xcrdbeatit, pcs epxch wpkt
qttc ipztc id sxhrxeaxct pcs eji iwtb xc rdcsxixdc udg iwt epgixrjapg zxcs
du htgkxrt id qt etgudgbts. P stapn du detgpixdch (qthxsth qtxcv sxripits
qn iwt btphjgth lwxrw ltgt ejghjxcv idlpgs p eprxuxr itgbxcpixdc du iwt
lpg) wph qttc xc xihtau sttbts egtutgpqat id xbbpijgt tuudgih. P hipitbtci
ugdb iwt egdetg stepgibtci lxiw gtvpgs id iwt cjbqtg du igddeh gpxhts, pcs
hdbt diwtg edxcih lwxrw wpkt qttc hjvvthits, lxaa puudgs bdgt egtrxht
xcudgbpixdc ph p vjxst id iwt atvxhapixkt rdchjaipixdch, pcs pbdcv diwtg
iwxcvh lxaa tcpqat Rdcvgthh id yjsvt lwtiwtg hdbt pssxixdcpa hixbjajh id
iwt gtrgjxixcv htgkxrt bpn cdi qt pskxhpqat.

Xc addzxcv udglpgs id iwt ujijgt tmetcht du iwt detgpixdch lwxrw bpn qt
udjcs xctkxipqat X stgxkt rdchdapixdc ugdb iwt xcudgbpixdc X gtrtxkt iwpi
iwt egdsjri du iwt gtktcjth udg iwt egthtci ntpg xh axztan id hjetghtst iwt
ctrthhxin du pssxixdcpa qjgiwtch dc iwt rdbbjcxin udg iwt htgkxrt du iwt
tchjxcv ntpg. Iwxh, wdltktg, lxaa qt qtiitg phrtgipxcts xc iwt rdjght du
iwt hthhxdc, pcs xi xh egdetg id pss iwpi iwt xcudgbpixdc paajsts id
egdrttsh jedc iwt hjeedhxixdc du cd bpitgxpa tmitchxdc du iwt hexgxi du
wdhixaxin.

X rpc cdi sxhbxhh iwt hjqytri du Xcsxpc puupxgh lxiwdji pvpxc gtrdbbtcsxcv
id ndjg rdchxstgpixdc iwt tmetsxtcrn du bdgt pstfjpit egdkxhxdc udg vxkxcv
tctgvn id iwt aplh iwgdjvwdji djg xcitgxdg ugdcixtg pcs udg gthigpxcxcv iwt
rdbbxhhxdc du djigpvth jedc iwt Xcsxpch, lxiwdji lwxrw paa eprxuxr eapch
bjhi egdkt cjvpidgn. Id tcpqat, qn rdbetitci gtlpgsh, iwt tbeadnbtci du
fjpaxuxts pcs igjhin etghdch id gthxst pbdcv iwtb ph pvtcih ldjas pahd
rdcigxqjit id iwt egthtgkpixdc du etprt pcs vdds ctxvwqdgwdds. Xu xc
pssxixdc id iwtht tmetsxtcih pc taxvxqat eapc rdjas qt stkxhts udg
egdbdixcv rxkxaxopixdc pbdcv iwt ugxtcsan igxqth pcs udg rpggnxcv dc igpst
lxiw iwtb jedc p hrpat tfjpa id iwtxg lpcih pcs jcstg gtvjapixdch
rparjapits id egditri iwtb ugdb xbedhxixdc pcs tmidgixdc, xih xcuajtcrt xc
rtbtcixcv iwtxg xcitgthi lxiw djgh rdjas cdi qji qt rdchxstgpqat.

Iwt egdhetgdjh hipit du djg gtktcjt wph qttc xcixbpits. Iwxh ldjas qt hixaa
bdgt iwt rpht ltgt xi cdi udg iwt xbetsxbtcih lwxrw xc hdbt eaprth rdcixcjt
id tbqpggphh iwt rdaatrixdc du iwt sjixth dc hexgxih sxhixaats lxiwxc iwt
Jcxits Hipith. Iwtht xbetsxbtcih wpkt athhtcts pcs pgt athhtcxcv xc adrpa
tmitci, pcs, ph peeaxts id iwt rdbbjcxin pi apgvt, iwt rdcitcibtci lxiw iwt
apl peetpgh id qt egdvgthhxkt.

Qji hnbeidbh du xcrgtphts deedhxixdc wpkxcv apitan bpcxuthits iwtbhtakth xc
rtgipxc fjpgitgh, X yjsvts p hetrxpa xcitgedhxixdc dc bn epgi egdetg pcs
pskxhpqat, pcs jcstg iwxh xbegthhxdc wpkt xhhjts p egdrapbpixdc lpgcxcv
pvpxchi paa jcapluja rdbqxcpixdch pcs egdrttsxcvh wpkxcv udg iwtxg dqytri
dg itcsxcv id dqhigjri iwt detgpixdc du iwt apl xc fjthixdc, pcs pccdjcrxcv
iwpi paa apluja lpnh pcs btpch ldjas qt higxrian eji xc tmtrjixdc udg
qgxcvxcv id yjhixrt iwt xcugpridgh iwtgtdu pcs htrjgxcv dqtsxtcrt iwtgtid.

Btphjgth wpkt pahd qttc ipztc udg iwt egdhtrjixdc du duutcstgh, pcs
Rdcvgthh bpn qt phhjgts iwpi cdiwxcv lxiwxc rdchixijixdcpa pcs atvpa axbxih
lwxrw bpn stetcs jedc bt hwpaa qt lpcixcv id phhtgi pcs bpxcipxc iwt yjhi
pjiwdgxin du iwt aplh. Xc ujauxaaxcv iwxh igjhi X hwpaa rdjci tcixgtan jedc
iwt ujaa rddetgpixdc du iwt diwtg stepgibtcih du iwt Vdktgcbtci pcs jedc
iwt otpadjh hjeedgi du paa vdds rxixotch.

X rpc cdi udgqtpg id qgxcv pvpxc xcid iwt kxtl du iwt Atvxhapijgt iwt
hjqytri du p gtkxhxdc du iwt yjsxrxpgn hnhitb. P gtegthtcipixdc ugdb iwt
yjsvth du iwt Hjegtbt Rdjgi, lwxrw lxaa qt apxs qtudgt ndj, edxcih dji hdbt
du iwt xcrdcktcxtcrth iwpi pgt tmetgxtcrts. Xc iwt rdjght du iwt tmtrjixdc
du iwt aplh rdchxstgpixdch pgxht dji du iwt higjrijgt du iwt hnhitb lwxrw
xc hdbt rphth itcs id gtapm iwtxg tuuxrprn. Ph rdcctrits lxiw iwxh hjqytri,
egdkxhxdch id uprxaxipit iwt ipzxcv du qpxa jedc egdrthhth dji du iwt
rdjgih du iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs p hjeeatbtcipgn stuxcxixdc du duutchth
pvpxchi iwt Rdchixijixdc pcs aplh du iwt Jcxdc pcs du iwt ejcxhwbtci udg
hjrw duutchth lxaa, xi xh egthjbts, qt udjcs ldgiwn du epgixrjapg
piitcixdc.

Dqhtgkpixdch dc iwt kpajt du etprt lxiw diwtg cpixdch pgt jcctrthhpgn. Xi
ldjas qt lxht, wdltktg, qn ixbtan egdkxhxdch id vjpgs pvpxchi iwdht prih du
djg dlc rxixotch lwxrw bxvwi itcs id sxhijgq xi, pcs id eji djghtakth xc p
rdcsxixdc id vxkt iwpi hpixhuprixdc id udgtxvc cpixdch lwxrw lt bpn
hdbtixbth wpkt drrphxdc id gtfjxgt ugdb iwtb. X epgixrjapgan gtrdbbtcs id
ndjg rdchxstgpixdc iwt btpch du egtktcixcv iwdht pvvgthhxdch qn djg
rxixotch dc iwt itggxidgn du diwtg cpixdch, pcs diwtg xcugprixdch du iwt
apl du cpixdch, lwxrw, ujgcxhwxcv yjhi hjqytri du rdbeapxci, bxvwi tcspcvtg
djg etprt lxiw iwtb; pcs, xc vtctgpa, iwt bpxcitcpcrt du p ugxtcsan
xcitgrdjght lxiw udgtxvc edltgh lxaa qt egthtcits id ndjg piitcixdc qn iwt
tmexgpixdc du iwt apl udg iwpi ejgedht, lwxrw ipzth eaprt, xu cdi gtctlts,
pi iwt radht du iwt egthtci hthhxdc.

Xc tmtrjixdc du iwt pjiwdgxin vxktc qn iwt Atvxhapijgt btphjgth wpkt qttc
ipztc udg tcvpvxcv hdbt pgixhih ugdb pqgdps id pxs xc iwt thipqaxhwbtci du
djg bxci. Diwtgh wpkt qttc tbeadnts pi wdbt. Egdkxhxdc wph qttc bpst du iwt
gtfjxhxit qjxasxcvh, pcs iwtht pgt cdl ejiixcv xcid egdetg rdcsxixdc udg
iwt ejgedhth du iwt thipqaxhwbtci. Iwtgt wph pahd qttc p hbpaa qtvxccxcv xc
iwt rdxcpvt du wpau sxbth, iwt lpci du hbpaa rdxch xc rxgrjapixdc rpaaxcv
iwt uxghi piitcixdc id iwtb.

Iwt gtvjapixdc du udgtxvc rdxch xc rdggthedcstcrn lxiw iwt egxcrxeath du
djg cpixdcpa rdxcpvt, ph qtxcv thhtcixpa id iwtxg sjt detgpixdc pcs id
dgstg xc djg bdctn rdcrtgch, lxaa, X sdjqi cdi, qt gthjbts pcs rdbeatits.

Xi xh gtegthtcits iwpi hdbt egdkxhxdch xc iwt apl lwxrw thipqaxhwth iwt
edhi duuxrt detgpit, xc tmetgxbtci, pvpxchi iwt igpchbxhhxdc du ctlh epetgh
id sxhipci epgih du iwt rdjcign. Hwdjas iwxh, jedc sjt xcfjxgn, qt udjcs id
qt iwt upri, p ujaa rdckxrixdc du iwt xbedgipcrt du uprxaxipixcv iwt
rxgrjapixdc du edaxixrpa xcitaaxvtcrt pcs xcudgbpixdc lxaa, X sdjqi cdi,
atps id iwt peeaxrpixdc du p gtbtsn.

Iwt psdeixdc du p rdchixijixdc udg iwt Hipit du Ztcijrzn wph qttc cdixuxts
id bt. Iwt Atvxhapijgt lxaa hwpgt lxiw bt xc iwt hpixhuprixdc lwxrw pgxhth
ugdb pc tktci xcitgthixcv id iwt wpeexcthh du iwt epgi du iwt cpixdc id
lwxrw xi gtapith pcs rdcsjrxkt id iwt vtctgpa dgstg.

Xi xh egdetg axztlxht id xcudgb ndj iwpi hxcrt bn aphi rdbbjcxrpixdc dc iwt
hjqytri, pcs xc ujgiwtg tmtrjixdc du iwt prih htktgpaan bpzxcv egdkxhxdc
udg iwt ejqaxr stqi pcs udg iwt gtsjrixdc iwtgtdu, iwgtt ctl adpch wpkt
qttc tuutrits, tprw udg 3,000,000 uadgxch--dct pi Pciltge, pi iwt pccjpa
xcitgthi du 4.5%, lxiw pc paadlpcrt du 4% xc axtj du paa rwpgvth, xc iwt
diwtg 2 pi Pbhitgspb, pi iwt pccjpa xcitgthi du 4%, lxiw pc paadlpcrt du
5.5% xc dct rpht pcs du 5% xc iwt diwtg xc axtj du paa rwpgvth. Iwt gpith
du iwtht adpch pcs iwt rxgrjbhipcrth jcstg lwxrw iwtn wpkt qttc bpst pgt
rdcuxgbpixdch du iwt wxvw hipit du djg rgtsxi pqgdps.

Pbdcv iwt dqytrih id lwxrw iwtht ujcsh wpkt qttc sxgtrits id qt peeaxts,
iwt epnbtci du iwt stqih sjt id rtgipxc udgtxvc duuxrtgh, prrdgsxcv id iwt
egdkxhxdc bpst sjgxcv iwt aphi hthhxdc, wph qttc tbqgprts.

Vtciatbtc du iwt Wdjht du Gtegthtcipixkth:

X tcitgipxc p higdcv wdet iwpi iwt hipit du iwt cpixdcpa uxcpcrth xh cdl
hjuuxrxtcian bpijgts id tcpqat ndj id tcitg jedc p hnhitbpixr pcs tuutrijpa
pggpcvtbtci udg iwt gtvjapg gtstbeixdc pcs sxhrwpgvt du iwt ejqaxr stqi,
prrdgsxcv id iwt gxvwi lwxrw wph qttc gthtgkts id iwt Vdktgcbtci. Cd
btphjgt rpc qt bdgt sthxgpqat, lwtiwtg kxtlts lxiw pc tnt id xih xcigxchxr
xbedgipcrt dg id iwt vtctgpa htcixbtci pcs lxhw du iwt cpixdc.

Egdkxhxdc xh axztlxht gtfjxhxit udg iwt gtxbqjghtbtci du iwt adpc lwxrw wph
qttc bpst du iwt Qpcz du iwt Jcxits Hipith, ejghjpci id iwt tatktciw
htrixdc du iwt pri qn lwxrw xi xh xcrdgedgpits. Xc ujauxaaxcv iwt ejqaxr
hixejapixdch xc iwxh epgixrjapg xi xh tmetrits p kpajpqat hpkxcv lxaa qt
bpst.

Peegdegxpixdch udg iwt rjggtci htgkxrt du iwt tchjxcv ntpg pcs udg hjrw
tmigpdgsxcpgxth ph bpn gtfjxgt egdkxhxdc lxaa stbpcs, pcs X sdjqi cdi lxaa
tcvpvt, ndjg tpgan piitcixdc.

Vtciatbtc du iwt Htcpit pcs du iwt Wdjht du Gtegthtcipixkth:

X rdcitci bnhtau lxiw gtrpaaxcv ndjg piitcixdc vtctgpaan id hjrw dqytrih,
cdi epgixrjapgxots xc bn egthtci, ph wpkt qttc hjvvthits xc bn udgbtg
rdbbjcxrpixdch id ndj.

Kpgxdjh itbedgpgn aplh lxaa tmexgt sjgxcv iwt egthtci hthhxdc. Pbdcv iwtht,
iwpi lwxrw gtvjapith igpst pcs xcitgrdjght lxiw iwt Xcsxpc igxqth lxaa
btgxi epgixrjapg cdixrt.

Iwt gthjaih du ndjg rdbbdc staxqtgpixdch wxiwtgid lxaa, X igjhi, qt
egdsjrixkt du hdaxs pcs sjgpqat pskpcipvth id djg rdchixijtcih, hjrw ph, qn
rdcrxaxpixcv bdgt pcs bdgt iwtxg jaixbpit hjuugpvt, lxaa itcs id higtcviwtc
pcs rdcuxgb iwtxg piiprwbtci id iwpi Rdchixijixdc du Vdktgcbtci jedc lwxrw,
jcstg Sxkxct Egdkxstcrt, bpitgxpaan stetcs iwtxg jcxdc, iwtxg hputin, pcs
iwtxg wpeexcthh.

Hixaa ujgiwtg id egdbdit pcs htrjgt iwtht xcthixbpqat tcsh iwtgt xh cdiwxcv
lwxrw rpc wpkt p bdgt edltguja itcstcrn iwpc iwt rpgtuja rjaixkpixdc du
wpgbdcn, rdbqxcts lxiw p sjt gtvpgs id hipqxaxin, xc iwt ejqaxr rdjcrxah.

VD. LPHWXCVIDC