Nmttwe-Kqbqhmva wn bpm Amvibm ivl Pwcam wn Zmxzmamvbibqdma:

Qv zmkczzqvo bw bpm qvbmzvit aqbcibqwv wn wcz kwcvbzg aqvkm Q pil tiab bpm
xtmiaczm bw illzmaa gwc, Q nqvl iuxtm zmiawv nwz i zmvmeml mfxzmaaqwv wn
bpib ozibqbclm bw bpm Zctmz wn bpm Cvqdmzam epqkp i kwvbqvcml amzqma wn
xzwaxmzqbg pia aw wnbmv ivl aw rcabtg kittml nwzbp.

Bpm ikba wn bpm tiab amaaqwv epqkp zmycqzml axmkqit izzivomumvba pidm jmmv
ia niz ia kqzkcuabivkma ewctl iluqb kizzqml qvbw wxmzibqwv.

Umiaczma kitkctibml bw qvaczm i kwvbqvcivkm wn bpm nzqmvlapqx wn bpm
Qvlqiva ivl bw xzmamzdm xmikm itwvo bpm mfbmvb wn wcz qvbmzqwz nzwvbqmz
pidm jmmv lqomabml ivl ilwxbml. Qv bpm nziuqvo wn bpmam kizm pia jmmv bismv
bw ocizl wv bpm wvm pivl wcz ildivkml ambbtmumvba nzwu bpm xzmlibwzg
qvkczaqwva wn bpwam cvzctg qvlqdqlcita epw kiv vwb jm zmabziqvml jg bpmqz
bzqjma, ivl wv bpm wbpmz pivl bw xzwbmkb bpm zqopba amkczml bw bpm Qvlqiva
jg bzmibg--bw lzie bpmu vmizmz bw bpm kqdqtqhml abibm ivl qvaxqzm bpmu
eqbp kwzzmkb kwvkmxbqwva wn bpm xwemz ia emtt ia rcabqkm wn bpm
Owdmzvumvb.

Bpm ummbqvo wn bpm lmxcbqma nzwu bpm Kzmms Vibqwv ib Kwtmziqv, qv bpm Abibm
wn Omwzoqi, epqkp pil nwz i xzqvkqxit wjrmkb bpm xczkpiam wn i xizkmt wn
bpmqz tivl jg bpib Abibm, jzwsm cx eqbpwcb qba jmqvo ikkwuxtqapml, bpm
vibqwv pidqvo xzmdqwca bw bpmqz lmxizbczm qvabzckbml bpmu ioiqvab uisqvo
ivg aitm. Bpm wkkiaqwv, pwemdmz, pia jmmv quxzwdml bw kwvnqzu jg i vme
bzmibg eqbp bpm Kzmmsa bpmqz xzmmfqabqvo mvoiomumvba eqbp bpm Cvqbml
Abibma, ivl bw wjbiqv bpmqz kwvamvb bw bpm mabijtqapumvb wn bzilqvo pwcama
ivl uqtqbizg xwaba eqbpqv bpmqz jwcvlizg, jg umiva wn epqkp bpmqz
nzqmvlapqx ivl bpm omvmzit xmikm uig jm uwzm mnnmkbcittg amkczml.

Bpm xmzqwl lczqvo bpm tibm amaaqwv ib epqkp bpm ixxzwxzqibqwv eia xiaaml
nwz kizzgqvo qvbw mnnmkb bpm bzmibg wn iuqbg, kwuumzkm, ivl vidqoibqwv
jmbemmv bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl Pqa Jzqbbivqk Uirmabg vmkmaaizqtg
xzwkziabqvibml bpm zmkmxbqwv wn bpm xwaba abqxctibml bw jm lmtqdmzml jmgwvl
bpm libm iaaqovml nwz bpib mdmvb. Ia awwv, pwemdmz, ia bpm Owdmzvwz-Omvmzit
wn Kivili kwctl jm illzmaaml eqbp xzwxzqmbg wv bpm acjrmkb, izzivomumvba
emzm kwzlqittg ivl xzwuxbtg kwvktclml nwz bpmqz mdikcibqwv, ivl bpm Cvqbml
Abibma bwws xwaamaaqwv wn bpm xzqvkqxit wn bpmu, kwuxzmpmvlqvo Waemow,
Vqioizi, Lmbzwqb, Uqkpqtquiksqvik, ivl Nwzb Uqiuq, epmzm ackp zmxiqza ivl
illqbqwva pidm jmmv wzlmzml bw jm uilm ia ixxmizml qvlqaxmvaijtm.

Bpm kwuuqaaqwvmza ixxwqvbml wv bpm xizb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl wn Ozmib
Jzqbiqv bw lmbmzuqvm epqkp qa bpm zqdmz Ab. Kzwqf umvbqwvml qv bpm bzmibg
wn xmikm wn 1783, iozmml qv bpm kpwqkm wn Mojmzb Jmvawv, may., wn Vme Gwzs,
nwz bpm 3zl kwuuqaaqwvmz. Bpm epwtm umb ib Ab. Ivlzme'a, qv Xiaaiuiycwllg
Jig, qv bpm jmoqvvqvo wn Wkbwjmz, ivl lqzmkbml aczdmga bw jm uilm wn bpm
zqdmza qv lqaxcbm; jcb lmmuqvo qb quxzikbqkijtm bw pidm bpmam aczdmga
kwuxtmbml jmnwzm bpm vmfb gmiz, bpmg ilrwczvml bw ummb ib Jwabwv qv Icocab,
1797, nwz bpm nqvit lmkqaqwv wn bpm ycmabqwv.

Wbpmz kwuuqaaqwvmza ixxwqvbml wv bpm xizb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma, iozmmijtg
bw bpm 7bp izbqktm wn bpm bzmibg eqbp Ozmib Jzqbiqv, zmtibqdm bw kixbczma
ivl kwvlmuvibqwv wn dmaamta ivl wbpmz xzwxmzbg, umb bpm kwuuqaaqwvmza wn
Pqa Jzqbivvqk Uirmabg qv Twvlwv qv Icocab tiab, epmv Rwpv Bzcujctt, may.,
eia kpwamv jg twb nwz bpm 5bp kwuuqaaqwvmz. Qv Wkbwjmz nwttweqvo bpm jwizl
emzm bw xzwkmml bw jcaqvmaa. Ia gmb bpmzm pia jmmv vw kwuucvqkibqwv wn
kwuuqaaqwvmza wv bpm xizb wn Ozmib Jzqbiqv bw cvqbm eqbp bpwam epw pidm
jmmv ixxwqvbml wv bpm xizb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma nwz kizzgqvo qvbw mnnmkb
bpm 6bp izbqktm wn bpm bzmibg.

Bpm bzmibg eqbp Axiqv zmycqzml bpib bpm kwuuqaaqwvmza nwz zcvvqvo bpm
jwcvlizg tqvm jmbemmv bpm bmzzqbwzg wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl Pqa Kibpwtqk
Uirmabg'a xzwdqvkma wn Miab ivl Emab Ntwzqli apwctl ummb ib bpm Vibkpmh
jmnwzm bpm mfxqzibqwv wn 6 uwvbpa inbmz bpm mfkpivom wn bpm zibqnqkibqwva,
epqkp eia mnnmkbml ib Izivrcmh wv bpm 25bp lig wn Ixzqt; ivl bpm
bzwwxa wn Pqa Kibpwtqk Uirmabg wkkcxgqvo ivg xwaba eqbpqv bpm tquqba wn
bpm Cvqbml Abibma emzm eqbpqv bpm aium bqum xmzqwl bw jm eqbplziev. Bpm
kwuuqaaqwvmz wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma bpmzmnwzm kwuumvkml pqa rwczvmg nwz bpm
Vibkpmh qv Amxbmujmz, ivl bzwwxa emzm wzlmzml bw wkkcxg bpm xwaba nzwu
epqkp bpm Axivqap oizzqawva apwctl jm eqbplziev. Qvnwzuibqwv pia jmmv
zmkmvbtg zmkmqdml wn bpm ixxwqvbumvb wn i kwuuqaaqwvmz wv bpm xizb wn Pqa
Kibpwtqk Uirmabg nwz zcvvqvo bpm jwcvlizg tqvm, jcb vwvm wn ivg ixxwqvbumvb
nwz bpm ilrcabumvb wn bpm ktiqua wn wcz kqbqhmva epwam dmaamta emzm
kixbczml jg bpm izuml dmaamta wn Axiqv.

Qv xczacivkm wn bpm ikb wn Kwvozmaa xiaaml qv bpm tiab amaaqwv nwz bpm
xzwbmkbqwv ivl zmtqmn wn Iumzqkiv ami-umv, iomvba emzm ixxwqvbml, wvm bw
zmaqlm qv Ozmib Jzqbiqv ivl bpm wbpmz qv bpm Emab Qvlqma. Bpm mnnmkba wn
bpm iomvkg qv bpm Emab Qvlqma izm vwb gmb ncttg iakmzbiqvml, jcb bpwam
epqkp pidm jmmv kwuucvqkibml innwzl ozwcvla bw jmtqmdm bpm umiaczm eqtt jm
jmvmnqkqit. Bpm iomvb lmabqvml bw zmaqlm qv Ozmib Jzqbiqv lmktqvqvo bw
ikkmxb bpm ixxwqvbumvb, bpm jcaqvmaa pia kwvamycmvbtg lmdwtdml wv bpm
uqvqabmz wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma qv Twvlwv, ivl eqtt kwuuivl pqa ibbmvbqwv
cvbqt i vme iomvb apitt jm ixxwqvbml.

Inbmz uivg lmtiga ivl lqaixxwqvbumvba izqaqvo wcb wn bpm Mczwxmiv eiz, bpm
nqvit izzivomumvba nwz nctnqttqvo bpm mvoiomumvba uilm bw bpm Lmg ivl
Zmomvkg wn Itoqmza eqtt qv itt xzmamvb ixxmizivkm jm kzwevml eqbp ackkmaa,
jcb cvlmz ozmib, bpwcop qvmdqbijtm, lqaildivbioma qv bpm xmkcvqizg
bzivaikbqwva wkkiaqwvml jg bpib eiz, epqkp eqtt zmvlmz nczbpmz xzwdqaqwv
vmkmaaizg. Bpm ikbcit tqjmzibqwv wn itt wcz kqbqhmva epw emzm xzqawvmza qv
Itoqmza, epqtm qb ozibqnqma mdmzg nmmtqvo wn pmizb, qa qbamtn iv mizvmab wn
i aibqanikbwzg bmzuqvibqwv wn bpm epwtm vmowbqibqwv. Umiaczma izm qv
wxmzibqwv nwz mnnmkbqvo bzmibqma eqbp bpm Zmomvkqma wn Bcvqa ivl Bzqxwtq.

Bw iv ikbqdm mfbmzvit kwuumzkm bpm xzwbmkbqwv wn i vidit nwzkm qa
qvlqaxmvaijtm. Bpqa qa uivqnmab eqbp zmoizl bw eiza qv epqkp i Abibm qa
qbamtn i xizbg. Jcb jmaqlma bpqa, qb qa qv wcz wev mfxmzqmvkm bpib bpm uwab
aqvkmzm vmcbzitqbg qa vwb i acnnqkqmvb ocizl ioiqvab bpm lmxzmlibqwva wn
vibqwva ib eiz. Bw amkczm zmaxmkb bw i vmcbzit ntio zmycqzma i vidit nwzkm
wzoivqhml ivl zmilg bw dqvlqkibm qb nzwu qvactb wz ioozmaaqwv. Bpqa uig
mdmv xzmdmvb bpm vmkmaaqbg wn owqvo bw eiz jg lqakwczioqvo jmttqomzmvb
xwemza nzwu kwuuqbbqvo ackp dqwtibqwva wn bpm zqopba wn bpm vmcbzit xizbg
ia uig, nqzab wz tiab, tmidm vw wbpmz wxbqwv. Nzwu bpm jmab qvnwzuibqwv Q
pidm jmmv ijtm bw wjbiqv qb ewctl ammu ia qn wcz bzilm bw bpm Umlqbmzzivmiv
eqbpwcb i xzwbmkbqvo nwzkm eqtt iteiga jm qvamkczm ivl wcz kqbqhmva mfxwaml
bw bpm kitiuqbqma nzwu epqkp vcujmza wn bpmu pidm jcb rcab jmmv zmtqmdml.

Bpmam kwvaqlmzibqwva qvdqbm bpm Cvqbml Abibma bw twws bw bpm umiva, ivl bw
amb ijwcb bpm ozilcit kzmibqwv wn i vidg. Bpm qvkzmiaqvo xzwozmaa wn bpmqz
vidqoibqwv xzwuqama bpmu ib vw lqabivb xmzqwl bpm zmycqaqbm acxxtg wn
ami-umv, ivl bpmqz umiva qv wbpmz zmaxmkba nidwz bpm cvlmzbisqvo. Qb qa iv
mvkwcziomumvb, tqsmeqam, bpib bpmqz xizbqkctiz aqbcibqwv eqtt oqdm emqopb
ivl qvntcmvkm bw i uwlmzibm vidit nwzkm qv bpmqz pivla. Eqtt qb vwb, bpmv,
jm ildqaijtm bw jmoqv eqbpwcb lmtig bw xzwdqlm ivl tig cx bpm uibmzqita nwz
bpm jcqtlqvo ivl mycqxxqvo wn apqxa wn eiz, ivl bw xzwkmml qv bpm ewzs jg
lmozmma, qv xzwxwzbqwv ia wcz zmawczkma apitt zmvlmz qb xzikbqkijtm eqbpwcb
qvkwvdmvqmvkm, aw bpib i ncbczm eiz wn Mczwxm uig vwb nqvl wcz kwuumzkm qv
bpm aium cvxzwbmkbml abibm qv epqkp qb eia nwcvl jg bpm xzmamvb?

Kwvozmaa pidm zmxmibmltg, ivl vwb eqbpwcb ackkmaa, lqzmkbml bpmqz ibbmvbqwv
bw bpm mvkwcziomumvb wn uivcnikbczma. Bpm wjrmkb qa wn bww uckp kwvamycmvkm
vwb bw qvaczm i kwvbqvcivkm wn bpmqz mnnwzba qv mdmzg eig epqkp apitt
ixxmiz mtqoqjtm. Ia i omvmzit zctm, uivcnikbczma wv xcjtqk ikkwcvb izm
qvmfxmlqmvb; jcb epmzm bpm abibm wn bpqvoa qv i kwcvbzg tmidma tqbbtm pwxm
bpib kmzbiqv jzivkpma wn uivcnikbczm eqtt nwz i ozmib tmvobp wn bqum
wjbiqv, epmv bpmam izm wn i vibczm maamvbqit bw bpm nczvqapqvo ivl
mycqxxqvo wn bpm xcjtqk nwzkm qv bqum wn eiz, izm vwb mabijtqapumvba nwz
xzwkczqvo bpmu wv xcjtqk ikkwcvb bw bpm mfbmvb wn bpm wzlqvizg lmuivl nwz
bpm xcjtqk amzdqkm zmkwuumvlml jg abzwvo kwvaqlmzibqwva wn vibqwvit xwtqkg
ia iv mfkmxbqwv bw bpm omvmzit zctm?

Wcopb wcz kwcvbzg bw zmuiqv qv ackp kiama lmxmvlmvb wv nwzmqov acxxtg,
xzmkizqwca jmkicam tqijtm bw jm qvbmzzcxbml? Qn bpm vmkmaaizg izbqktm
apwctl qv bpqa uwlm kwab uwzm qv bqum wn xmikm, eqtt vwb bpm amkczqbg ivl
qvlmxmvlmvkm bpmvkm izqaqvo nwzu iv iuxtm kwuxmvaibqwv?

Mabijtqapumvba wn bpqa awzb, kwuumvaczibm wvtg eqbp bpm kitta wn bpm xcjtqk
amzdqkm qv bqum wn xmikm, eqtt qv bqum wn eiz miaqtg jm mfbmvlml qv
xzwxwzbqwv bw bpm mfqomvkqma wn bpm Owdmzvumvb, ivl uig mdmv xmzpixa jm
uilm bw gqmtl i aczxtca nwz bpm acxxtg wn wcz kqbqhmva ib tizom, aw ia bw
uqbqoibm bpm xzqdibqwva nzwu bpm qvbmzzcxbqwv wn bpmqz bzilm. Qn ilwxbml,
bpm xtiv wcopb bw mfktclm itt bpwam jzivkpma epqkp izm itzmilg, wz tqsmtg
awwv bw jm, mabijtqapml qv bpm kwcvbzg, qv wzlmz bpib bpmzm uig jm vw livomz
wn qvbmznmzmvkm eqbp xczacqba wn qvlqdqlcit qvlcabzg.

Qb eqtt vwb jm lwcjbml bpib eqbp zmnmzmvkm mqbpmz bw qvlqdqlcit wz vibqwvit
emtnizm iozqkctbczm qa wn xzquizg quxwzbivkm. Qv xzwxwzbqwv ia vibqwva
ildivkm qv xwxctibqwv ivl wbpmz kqzkcuabivkma wn uibczqbg bpqa bzcbp
jmkwuma uwzm ixxizmvb, ivl zmvlmza bpm kctbqdibqwv wn bpm awqt uwzm ivl
uwzm iv wjrmkb wn xcjtqk xibzwviom. Qvabqbcbqwva nwz xzwuwbqvo qb ozwe cx,
acxxwzbml jg bpm xcjtqk xczam; ivl bw epib wjrmkb kiv qb jm lmlqkibml eqbp
ozmibmz xzwxzqmbg?

Iuwvo bpm umiva epqkp pidm jmmv muxtwgml bw bpqa mvl vwvm pidm jmmv
ibbmvlml eqbp ozmibmz ackkmaa bpiv bpm mabijtqapumvb wn jwizla (kwuxwaml wn
xzwxmz kpizikbmza) kpizoml eqbp kwttmkbqvo ivl lqnncaqvo qvnwzuibqwv, ivl
mvijtml jg xzmuqcua ivl auitt xmkcvqizg iqla bw mvkwcziom ivl iaaqab i
axqzqb wn lqakwdmzg ivl quxzwdmumvb. Bpqa axmkqma wn mabijtqapumvb
kwvbzqjcbma lwcjtg bw bpm qvkzmiam wn quxzwdmumvb jg abquctibqvo bw
mvbmzxzqam ivl mfxmzqumvb, ivl jg lzieqvo bw i kwuuwv kmvbmz bpm zmactba
mdmzgepmzm wn qvlqdqlcit asqtt ivl wjamzdibqwv, ivl axzmilqvo bpmu bpmvkm
wdmz bpm epwtm vibqwv. Mfxmzqmvkm ikkwzlqvotg pia apmev bpib bpmg izm dmzg
kpmix qvabzcumvba wn quumvam vibqwvit jmvmnqba.

Q pidm pmzmbwnwzm xzwxwaml bw bpm kwvaqlmzibqwv wn Kwvozmaa bpm mfxmlqmvkg
wn mabijtqapqvo i vibqwvit cvqdmzaqbg ivl itaw i uqtqbizg ikilmug. Bpm
lmaqzijtmvmaa wn jwbp bpmam qvabqbcbqwva pia aw kwvabivbtg qvkzmiaml eqbp
mdmzg vme dqme Q pidm bismv wn bpm acjrmkb bpib Q kiv vwb wuqb bpm
wxxwzbcvqbg wn wvkm nwz itt zmkittqvo gwcz ibbmvbqwv bw bpmu.

Bpm iaamujtg bw epqkp Q illzmaa ugamtn qa bww mvtqopbmvml vwb bw jm ncttg
amvaqjtm pwe uckp i ntwczqapqvo abibm wn bpm izba ivl akqmvkma kwvbzqjcbma
bw vibqwvit xzwaxmzqbg ivl zmxcbibqwv.

Bzcm qb qa bpib wcz kwcvbzg, uckp bw qba pwvwz, kwvbiqva uivg amuqvizqma wn
tmizvqvo pqoptg zmxmibijtm ivl camnct; jcb bpm ncvla cxwv epqkp bpmg zmab
izm bww vizzwe bw kwuuivl bpm ijtmab xzwnmaawza qv bpm lqnnmzmvb
lmxizbumvba wn tqjmzit svwetmlom nwz bpm qvabqbcbqwv kwvbmuxtibml, bpwcop
bpmg ewctl jm mfkmttmvb icfqtqizqma.

Iuwvoab bpm uwbqdma bw ackp iv qvabqbcbqwv, bpm iaaquqtibqwv wn bpm
xzqvkqxtma, wxqvqwva, ivl uivvmza wn wcz kwcvbzg-umv jg bpm kwuuwv
mlckibqwv wn i xwzbqwv wn wcz gwcbp nzwu mdmzg ycizbmz emtt lmamzdma
ibbmvbqwv. Bpm uwzm pwuwomvwca wcz kqbqhmva kiv jm uilm qv bpmam
xizbqkctiza bpm ozmibmz eqtt jm wcz xzwaxmkb wn xmzuivmvb cvqwv; ivl i
xzquizg wjrmkb wn ackp i vibqwvit qvabqbcbqwv apwctl jm bpm mlckibqwv wn
wcz gwcbp qv bpm akqmvkm wn owdmzvumvb. Qv i zmxcjtqk epib axmkqma wn
svwetmlom kiv jm mycittg quxwzbivb ivl epib lcbg uwzm xzmaaqvo wv qba
tmoqatibczm bpiv bw xibzwvqhm i xtiv nwz kwuucvqkibqvo qb bw bpwam epw izm
bw jm bpm ncbczm ocizlqiva wn bpm tqjmzbqma wn bpm kwcvbzg?

Bpm qvabqbcbqwv wn i uqtqbizg ikilmug qa itaw zmkwuumvlml jg kwomvb
zmiawva. Pwemdmz xikqnqk bpm omvmzit xwtqkg wn i vibqwv uig jm, qb wcopb
vmdmz bw jm eqbpwcb iv ilmycibm abwks wn uqtqbizg svwetmlom nwz
mumzomvkqma. Bpm nqzab ewctl quxiqz bpm mvmzog wn qba kpizikbmz, ivl jwbp
ewctl pihizl qba ainmbg wz mfxwam qb bw ozmibmz mdqta epmv eiz kwctl vwb jm
idwqlml; jmaqlma bpib, eiz uqopb wnbmv vwb lmxmvl cxwv qba wev kpwqkm. Qv
xzwxwzbqwv ia bpm wjamzdivkm wn xikqnqk uifqua uqopb mfmuxb i vibqwv nzwu
bpm vmkmaaqbg wn xzikbqkqvo bpm zctma wn bpm uqtqbizg izb wcopb bw jm qba
kizm qv xzmamzdqvo ivl bzivauqbbqvo, jg xzwxmz mabijtqapumvba, bpm
svwetmlom wn bpib izb.

Epibmdmz izocumvb uig jm lziev nzwu xizbqkctiz mfiuxtma acxmznqkqittg
dqmeml, i bpwzwcop mfiuqvibqwv wn bpm acjrmkb eqtt mdqvkm bpib bpm izb wn
eiz qa ib wvkm kwuxzmpmvaqdm ivl kwuxtqkibml, bpib qb lmuivla uckp xzmdqwca
abclg, ivl bpib bpm xwaamaaqwv wn qb qv qba uwab quxzwdml ivl xmznmkb abibm
qa iteiga wn ozmib uwumvb bw bpm amkczqbg wn i vibqwv. Bpqa, bpmzmnwzm,
wcopb bw jm i amzqwca kizm wn mdmzg owdmzvumvb, ivl nwz bpqa xczxwam iv
ikilmug epmzm i zmoctiz kwczam wn qvabzckbqwv qa oqdmv qa iv wjdqwca
mfxmlqmvb epqkp lqnnmzmvb vibqwva pidm ackkmaancttg muxtwgml.

Bpm kwuxmvaibqwv bw bpm wnnqkmza wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma qv dizqwca qvabivkma,
ivl qv vwvm uwzm bpiv qv zmaxmkb bw bpm uwab quxwzbivb abibqwva, ixxmiz bw
kitt nwz tmoqatibqdm zmdqaqwv. Bpm kwvamycmvkma wn i lmnmkbqdm xzwdqaqwv
izm wn amzqwca quxwzb bw bpm Owdmzvumvb. Qn xzqdibm emitbp qa bw acxxtg bpm
lmnmkb wn xcjtqk zmbzqjcbqwv, qb eqtt ozmibtg kwvbzikb bpm axpmzm eqbpqv
epqkp bpm amtmkbqwv wn kpizikbmz nwz wnnqkm qa bw jm uilm, ivl eqtt
xzwxwzbqwvittg lquqvqap bpm xzwjijqtqbg wn i kpwqkm wn umv ijtm ia emtt ia
cxzqopb. Jmaqlma bpib, qb apwctl jm zmxcovivb bw bpm dqbit xzqvkqxtma wn
wcz Owdmzvumvb dqzbcittg bw mfktclm nzwu xcjtqk bzcaba bitmvba ivl dqzbcm
cvtmaa ikkwuxivqml jg emitbp.

Epqtm qv wcz mfbmzvit zmtibqwva awum amzqwca qvkwvdmvqmvkma ivl
mujizziaaumvba pidm jmmv wdmzkwum ivl wbpmza tmaamvml, qb qa eqbp uckp xiqv
ivl lmmx zmozmb Q umvbqwv bpib kqzkcuabivkma wn i dmzg cvemtkwum vibczm
pidm tibmtg wkkczzml. Wcz bzilm pia acnnmzml ivl qa acnnmzqvo mfbmvaqdm
qvrczqma qv bpm Emab Qvlqma nzwu bpm kzcqamza ivl iomvba wn bpm Nzmvkp
Zmxcjtqk, ivl kwuucvqkibqwva pidm jmmv zmkmqdml nzwu qba uqvqabmz pmzm
epqkp qvlqkibm bpm livomz wn i nczbpmz lqabczjivkm wn wcz kwuumzkm jg qba
icbpwzqbg, ivl epqkp izm qv wbpmz zmaxmkba niz nzwu iozmmijtm.

Qb pia jmmv ug kwvabivb, aqvkmzm, ivl mizvmab eqap, qv kwvnwzuqbg eqbp bpib
wn wcz vibqwv, bw uiqvbiqv kwzlqit pizuwvg ivl i xmznmkbtg nzqmvltg
cvlmzabivlqvo eqbp bpib Zmxcjtqk. Bpqa eqap zmuiqva cvijibml, ivl Q apitt
xmzamdmzm qv bpm mvlmidwz bw nctnqtt qb bw bpm cbuwab mfbmvb wn epib apitt
jm kwvaqabmvb eqbp i rcab ivl qvlqaxmvaijtm zmoizl bw bpm zqopba ivl pwvwz
wn wcz kwcvbzg; vwz eqtt Q miaqtg kmiam bw kpmzqap bpm mfxmkbibqwv bpib i
axqzqb wn rcabqkm, kivlwz, ivl nzqmvlapqx wv bpm xizb wn bpm Zmxcjtqk eqtt
mdmvbcittg qvaczm ackkmaa.

Qv xczacqvo bpqa kwczam, pwemdmz, Q kiv vwb nwzomb epib qa lcm bw bpm
kpizikbmz wn wcz Owdmzvumvb ivl vibqwv, wz bw i nctt ivl mvbqzm kwvnqlmvkm
qv bpm owwl amvam, xibzqwbqau, amtn-zmaxmkb, ivl nwzbqbclm wn ug
kwcvbzg-umv.

Q zmamzdm nwz i axmkqit umaaiom i uwzm xizbqkctiz kwuucvqkibqwv wv bpqa
qvbmzmabqvo acjrmkb.

Omvbtmumv wn bpm Pwcam wn Zmxzmamvbibqdma:

Q pidm lqzmkbml iv mabquibm wn bpm ixxzwxzqibqwva vmkmaaizg nwz bpm amzdqkm
wn bpm mvacqvo gmiz bw jm acjuqbbml nzwu bpm xzwxmz Lmxizbumvb, eqbp i dqme
wn bpm xcjtqk zmkmqxba ivl mfxmvlqbczma bw bpm tibmab xmzqwl bw epqkp iv
ikkwcvb kiv jm xzmxizml.

Qb qa eqbp aibqanikbqwv Q iu ijtm bw qvnwzu gwc bpib bpm zmdmvcma wn bpm
Cvqbml Abibma kwvbqvcm qv i abibm wn xzwozmaaqdm quxzwdmumvb.

I zmmvnwzkmumvb wn bpm mfqabqvo xzwdqaqwva nwz lqakpizoqvo wcz xcjtqk lmjb
eia umvbqwvml qv ug illzmaa ib bpm wxmvqvo wn bpm tiab amaaqwv. Awum
xzmtquqvizg abmxa emzm bismv bweizl qb, bpm uibczqvo wn epqkp eqtt vw lwcjb
mvoiom gwcz hmitwca ibbmvbqwv lczqvo bpm xzmamvb. Q eqtt wvtg ill bpib qb
eqtt innwzl um i pmizb-nmtb aibqanikbqwv bw kwvkcz qv ackp nczbpmz umiaczma
ia eqtt iakmzbiqv bw wcz kwcvbzg bpm xzwaxmkb wn i axmmlg mfbqvocqapumvb wn
bpm lmjb. Xwabmzqbg uig pidm kicam bw zmozmb qn nzwu ivg uwbqdm qvbmzdita
wn bzivycqttqbg izm tmnb cvquxzwdml nwz ikkmtmzibqvo bpqa ditcijtm mvl.

Omvbtmumv wn bpm Amvibm ivl wn bpm Pwcam wn Zmxzmamvbibqdma:

Ug awtqkqbclm bw amm bpm uqtqbqi wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma xtikml wv iv
mnnqkqmvb mabijtqapumvb pia jmmv aw wnbmv ivl aw izlmvbtg mfxzmaaml bpib Q
apitt jcb jizmtg zmkitt bpm acjrmkb bw gwcz dqme wv bpm xzmamvb wkkiaqwv,
ib bpm aium bqum bpib Q apitt acjuqb bw gwcz qvycqzg epmbpmz wcz pizjwza
izm gmb acnnqkqmvbtg amkczml.

Bpm aqbcibqwv qv epqkp Q vwe abivl nwz bpm tiab bqum, qv bpm uqlab wn bpm
zmxzmamvbibqdma wn bpm xmwxtm wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma, vibczittg zmkitta bpm
xmzqwl epmv bpm iluqvqabzibqwv wn bpm xzmamvb nwzu wn owdmzvumvb kwuumvkml,
ivl Q kiv vwb wuqb bpm wkkiaqwv bw kwvozibctibm gwc ivl ug kwcvbzg wv bpm
ackkmaa wn bpm mfxmzqumvb, vwz bw zmxmib ug nmzdmvb acxxtqkibqwva bw bpm
Acxzmum Zctmz wn bpm Cvqdmzam ivl Awdmzmqov Izjqbmz wn Vibqwva bpib Pqa
xzwdqlmvbqit kizm uig abqtt jm mfbmvlml bw bpm Cvqbml Abibma, bpib bpm
dqzbcm ivl pixxqvmaa wn bpm xmwxtm uig jm xzmamzdml, ivl bpib bpm
Owdmzvumvb epqkp bpmg pidm qvabqbcbml nwz bpm xzwbmkbqwv wn bpmqz tqjmzbqma
uig jm xmzxmbcit.

OW. EIAPQVOBWV