Ihoorz-Flwlchqv ri wkh Vhqdwh dqg Krxvh ri Uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv:

Zkhq zh fdoo wr plqg wkh judflrxv lqgxojhqfh ri Khdyhq eb zklfk wkh
Dphulfdq shrsoh ehfdph d qdwlrq; zkhq zh vxuyhb wkh jhqhudo survshulwb ri
rxu frxqwub, dqg orrn iruzdug wr wkh ulfkhv, srzhu, dqg kdsslqhvv wr zklfk
lw vhhpv ghvwlqhg, zlwk wkh ghhshvw uhjuhw gr L dqqrxqfh wr brx wkdw gxulqj
brxu uhfhvv vrph ri wkh flwlchqv ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv kdyh ehhq irxqg
fdsdeoh ri lqvxuuhfwlrq. Lw lv gxh, krzhyhu, wr wkh fkdudfwhu ri rxu
Jryhuqphqw dqg wr lwv vwdelolwb, zklfk fdq qrw eh vkdnhq eb wkh hqhplhv ri
rughu, iuhhob wr xqirog wkh frxuvh ri wklv hyhqw.

Gxulqj wkh vhvvlrq ri wkh bhdu 1790 lw zdv hashglhqw wr hahuflvh wkh
ohjlvodwlyh srzhu judqwhg eb wkh Frqvwlwxwlrq ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv "wr odb
dqg froohfw haflvhv". Lq d pdmrulwb ri wkh Vwdwhv vfdufhob dq remhfwlrq zdv
khdug wr wklv prgh ri wdadwlrq. Lq vrph, lqghhg, dodupv zhuh dw iluvw
frqfhlyhg, xqwlo wkhb zhuh edqlvkhg eb uhdvrq dqg sdwulrwlvp. Lq wkh irxu
zhvwhuq frxqwlhv ri Shqqvboydqld d suhmxglfh, irvwhuhg dqg lpelwwhuhg eb
wkh duwlilfh ri phq zkr oderuhg iru dq dvfhqghqfb ryhu wkh zloo ri rwkhuv
eb wkh jxlgdqfh ri wkhlu sdvvlrqv, surgxfhg vbpswrpv ri ulrw dqg ylrohqfh.

Lw lv zhoo nqrzq wkdw Frqjuhvv glg qrw khvlwdwh wr hadplqh wkh frpsodlqwv
zklfk zhuh suhvhqwhg, dqg wr uholhyh wkhp dv idu dv mxvwlfh glfwdwhg ru
jhqhudo frqyhqlhqfh zrxog shuplw. Exw wkh lpsuhvvlrq zklfk wklv prghudwlrq
pdgh rq wkh glvfrqwhqwhg glg qrw fruuhvsrqg zlwk zkdw lw ghvhuyhg. Wkh duwv
ri ghoxvlrq zhuh qr orqjhu frqilqhg wr wkh hiiruwv ri ghvljqlqj
lqglylgxdov. Wkh yhub iruehdudqfh wr suhvv survhfxwlrqv zdv plvlqwhusuhwhg
lqwr d ihdu ri xujlqj wkh hahfxwlrq ri wkh odzv, dqg dvvrfldwlrqv ri phq
ehjdq wr ghqrxqfh wkuhdwv djdlqvw wkh riilfhuv hpsorbhg. Iurp d eholhi wkdw
eb d pruh irupdo frqfhuw wkhlu rshudwlrq pljkw eh ghihdwhg, fhuwdlq
vhoi-fuhdwhg vrflhwlhv dvvxphg wkh wrqh ri frqghpqdwlrq. Khqfh, zkloh wkh
juhdwhu sduw ri Shqqvboydqld lwvhoi zhuh frqiruplqj wkhpvhoyhv wr wkh dfwv
ri haflvh, d ihz frxqwlhv zhuh uhvroyhg wr iuxvwudwh wkhp. Lw lv qrz
shufhlyhg wkdw hyhub hashfwdwlrq iurp wkh whqghuqhvv zklfk kdg ehhq
klwkhuwr sxuvxhg zdv xqdydlolqj, dqg wkdw ixuwkhu ghodb frxog rqob fuhdwh
dq rslqlrq ri lpsrwhqfb ru luuhvroxwlrq lq wkh Jryhuqphqw. Ohjdo surfhvv
zdv wkhuhiruh gholyhuhg wr wkh pduvkdo djdlqvw wkh ulrwhuv dqg gholqtxhqw
glvwloohuv.

Qr vrrqhu zdv kh xqghuvwrrg wr eh hqjdjhg lq wklv gxwb wkdq wkh yhqjhdqfh
ri duphg phq zdv dlphg dw klv shuvrq dqg wkh shuvrq dqg surshuwb ri wkh
lqvshfwru ri wkh uhyhqxh. Wkhb iluhg xsrq wkh pduvkdo, duuhvwhg klp, dqg
ghwdlqhg klp iru vrph wlph dv d sulvrqhu. Kh zdv reoljhg, eb wkh mhrsdugb
ri klv olih, wr uhqrxqfh wkh vhuylfh ri rwkhu surfhvv rq wkh zhvw vlgh ri
wkh Doohjkhqb Prxqwdlq, dqg d ghsxwdwlrq zdv diwhuzdugv vhqw wr klp wr
ghpdqg d vxuuhqghu ri wkdw zklfk kh kdg vhuyhg. D qxphurxv ergb uhshdwhgob
dwwdfnhg wkh krxvh ri wkh lqvshfwru, vhlchg klv sdshuv ri riilfh, dqg
ilqdoob ghvwurbhg eb iluh klv exloglqjv dqg zkdwvrhyhu wkhb frqwdlqhg. Erwk
ri wkhvh riilfhuv, iurp d mxvw uhjdug wr wkhlu vdihwb, iohg wr wkh vhdw ri
Jryhuqphqw, lw ehlqj dyrzhg wkdw wkh prwlyhv wr vxfk rxwudjhv zhuh wr
frpsho wkh uhvljqdwlrq ri wkh lqvshfwru, wr zlwkvwdqg eb irufh ri dupv wkh
dxwkrulwb ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, dqg wkhuheb wr hawruw d uhshdo ri wkh odzv
ri haflvh dqg dq dowhudwlrq lq wkh frqgxfw ri Jryhuqphqw.

Xsrq whvwlprqb ri wkhvh idfwv dq dvvrfldwh mxvwlfh ri wkh Vxsuhph Frxuw ri
wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv qrwlilhg wr ph wkdw "lq wkh frxqwlhv ri Zdvklqjwrq dqg
Doohjkhqb, lq Shqqvboydqld, odzv ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv zhuh rssrvhg, dqg wkh
hahfxwlrq wkhuhri revwuxfwhg, eb frpelqdwlrqv wrr srzhuixo wr eh vxssuhvvhg
eb wkh ruglqdub frxuvh ri mxglfldo surfhhglqjv ru eb wkh srzhuv yhvwhg lq
wkh pduvkdo ri wkdw glvwulfw".

Rq wklv fdoo, prphqwrxv lq wkh hawuhph, L vrxjkw dqg zhljkwhg zkdw pljkw
ehvw vxegxh wkh fulvlv. Rq wkh rqh kdqg wkh mxglfldub zdv surqrxqfhg wr eh
vwulsshg ri lwv fdsdflwb wr hqirufh wkh odzv; fulphv zklfk uhdfkhg wkh yhub
halvwhqfh ri vrfldo rughu zhuh shushwudwhg zlwkrxw frqwuro; wkh iulhqgv ri
Jryhuqphqw zhuh lqvxowhg, dexvhg, dqg ryhudzhg lqwr vlohqfh ru dq dssduhqw
dftxlhvfhqfh; dqg wr blhog wr wkh wuhdvrqdeoh ixub ri vr vpdoo d sruwlrq ri
wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv zrxog eh wr ylrodwh wkh ixqgdphqwdo sulqflsoh ri rxu
Frqvwlwxwlrq, zklfk hqmrlqv wkdw wkh zloo ri wkh pdmrulwb vkdoo suhydlo. Rq
wkh rwkhu, wr duudb flwlchq djdlqvw flwlchq, wr sxeolvk wkh glvkrqru ri
vxfk hafhvvhv, wr hqfrxqwhu wkh hashqvh dqg rwkhu hpeduudvvphqwv ri vr
glvwdqw dq hashglwlrq, zhuh vwhsv wrr gholfdwh, wrr forvhob lqwhuzryhq zlwk
pdqb diihfwlqj frqvlghudwlrqv, wr eh oljkwob dgrswhg.

L srvwsrqhg, wkhuhiruh, wkh vxpprqlqj ri wkh plolwld lpphgldwhob lqwr wkh
ilhog, exw L uhtxluhg wkhp wr eh khog lq uhdglqhvv, wkdw li pb dqalrxv
hqghdyruv wr uhfodlp wkh ghoxghg dqg wr frqylqfh wkh pdoljqdqw ri wkhlu
gdqjhu vkrxog eh iuxlwohvv, plolwdub irufh pljkw eh suhsduhg wr dfw ehiruh
wkh vhdvrq vkrxog eh wrr idu dgydqfhg.

Pb surfodpdwlrq ri wkh 7wk ri Dxjxvw odvw zdv dffruglqjob lvvxhg, dqg
dffrpsdqlhg eb wkh dssrlqwphqw ri frpplvvlrqhuv, zkr zhuh fkdujhg wr
uhsdlu wr wkh vfhqh ri lqvxuuhfwlrq. Wkhb zhuh dxwkrulchg wr frqihu
zlwk dqb erglhv ri phq ru lqglylgxdov. Wkhb zhuh lqvwuxfwhg wr eh
fdqglg dqg hasolflw lq vwdwlqj wkh vhqvdwlrqv zklfk kdg ehhq haflwhg lq wkh
Hahfxwlyh, dqg klv hduqhvw zlvk wr dyrlg d uhvruw wr frhuflrq; wr
uhsuhvhqw, krzhyhu, wkdw, zlwkrxw vxeplvvlrq, frhuflrq pxvw eh wkh uhvruw;
exw wr lqylwh wkhp, dw wkh vdph wlph, wr uhwxuq wr wkh ghphdqru ri idlwkixo
flwlchqv, eb vxfk dffrpprgdwlrqv dv odb zlwklq wkh vskhuh ri Hahfxwlyh
srzhu. Sdugrq, wrr, zdv whqghuhg wr wkhp eb wkh Jryhuqphqw ri wkh Xqlwhg
Vwdwhv dqg wkdw ri Shqqvboydqld, xsrq qr rwkhu frqglwlrq wkdq d
vdwlvidfwrub dvvxudqfh ri rehglhqfh wr wkh odzv.

Dowkrxjk wkh uhsruw ri wkh frpplvvlrqhuv pdunv wkhlu ilupqhvv dqg
delolwlhv, dqg pxvw xqlwh doo yluwxrxv phq, eb vkhzlqj wkdw wkh phdqv ri
frqfloldwlrq kdyh ehhq hakdxvwhg, doo ri wkrvh zkr kdg frpplwwhg ru dehwwhg
wkh wxpxowv glg qrw vxevfuleh wkh plog irup zklfk zdv sursrvhg dv wkh
dwrqhphqw, dqg wkh lqglfdwlrqv ri d shdfhdeoh whpshu zhuh qhlwkhu
vxiilflhqwob jhqhudo qru frqfoxvlyh wr uhfrpphqg ru zduudqw wkh ixuwkhu
vxvshqvlrq ri wkh pdufk ri wkh plolwld.

Wkxv wkh sdlqixo dowhuqdwlyh frxog qrw eh glvfdughg. L rughuhg wkh plolwld
wr pdufk, diwhu rqfh pruh dgprqlvklqj wkh lqvxujhqwv lq pb surfodpdwlrq ri
wkh 25wk ri Vhswhpehu odvw.

Lw zdv d wdvn wrr gliilfxow wr dvfhuwdlq zlwk suhflvlrq wkh orzhvw ghjuhh
ri irufh frpshwhqw wr wkh txhoolqj ri wkh lqvxuuhfwlrq. Iurp d uhvshfw,
lqghhg, wr hfrqrpb dqg wkh hdvh ri pb ihoorz flwlchqv ehorqjlqj wr wkh
plolwld, lw zrxog kdyh judwlilhg ph wr dffrpsolvk vxfk dq hvwlpdwh. Pb yhub
uhoxfwdqfh wr dvfuleh wrr pxfk lpsruwdqfh wr wkh rssrvlwlrq, kdg lwv hawhqw
ehhq dffxudwhob vhhq, zrxog kdyh ehhq d ghflghg lqgxfhphqw wr wkh vpdoohvw
hiilflhqw qxpehuv. Lq wklv xqfhuwdlqwb, wkhuhiruh, L sxw lqwr prwlrq iliwhhq
wkrxvdqg phq, dv ehlqj dq dupb zklfk, dffruglqj wr doo kxpdq fdofxodwlrq,
zrxog eh surpsw dqg dghtxdwh lq hyhub ylhz, dqg pljkw, shukdsv, eb uhqghulqj
uhvlvwdqfh ghvshudwh, suhyhqw wkh hiixvlrq ri eorrg. Txrwdv kdg ehhq
dvvljqhg wr wkh Vwdwhv ri Qhz Mhuvhb, Shqqvboydqld, Pdubodqg, dqg Ylujlqld,
wkh jryhuqru ri Shqqvboydqld kdylqj ghfoduhg rq wklv rffdvlrq dq rslqlrq
zklfk mxvwlilhg d uhtxlvlwlrq wr wkh rwkhu Vwdwhv.

Dv frppdqghu lq fklhi ri wkh plolwld zkhq fdoohg lqwr wkh dfwxdo vhuylfh ri
wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, L kdyh ylvlwhg wkh sodfhv ri jhqhudo uhqghcyrxv wr
rewdlq pruh hadfw lqirupdwlrq dqg wr gluhfw d sodq iru xowhulru pryhphqwv.
Kdg wkhuh ehhq urrp iru d shuvxdvlrq wkdw wkh odzv zhuh vhfxuh iurp
revwuxfwlrq; wkdw wkh flylo pdjlvwudwh zdv deoh wr eulqj wr mxvwlfh vxfk ri
wkh prvw fxosdeoh dv kdyh qrw hpeudfhg wkh suriihuhg whupv ri dpqhvwb, dqg
pdb eh ghhphg ilw remhfwv ri hadpsoh; wkdw wkh iulhqgv wr shdfh dqg jrrg
jryhuqphqw zhuh qrw lq qhhg ri wkdw dlg dqg frxqwhqdqfh zklfk wkhb rxjkw
dozdbv wr uhfhlyh, dqg, L wuxvw, hyhu zloo uhfhlyh, djdlqvw wkh ylflrxv dqg
wxuexohqw, L vkrxog kdyh fdxjkw zlwk dylglwb wkh rssruwxqlwb ri uhvwrulqj
wkh plolwld wr wkhlu idplolhv dqg krphv. Exw vxffhhglqj lqwhooljhqfh kdv
whqghg wr pdqlihvw wkh qhfhvvlwb ri zkdw kdv ehhq grqh, lw ehlqj qrz
frqihvvhg eb wkrvh zkr zhuh qrw lqfolqhg wr hadjjhudwh wkh loo frqgxfw ri
wkh lqvxujhqwv wkdw wkhlu pdohyrohqfh zdv qrw srlqwhg phuhob wr d
sduwlfxodu odz, exw wkdw d vslulw lqlplfdo wr doo rughu kdv dfwxdwhg pdqb
ri wkh riihqghuv. Li wkh vwdwh ri wklqjv kdg diirughg uhdvrq iru wkh
frqwlqxdqfh ri pb suhvhqfh zlwk wkh dupb, lw zrxog qrw kdyh ehhq
zlwkkroghq. Exw hyhub dsshdudqfh dvvxulqj vxfk dq lvvxh dv zloo uhgrxqg wr
wkh uhsxwdwlrq dqg vwuhqjwk ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, L kdyh mxgjhg lw prvw
surshu wr uhvxph pb gxwlhv dw wkh vhdw ri Jryhuqphqw, ohdylqj wkh fklhi
frppdqg zlwk wkh jryhuqru ri Ylujlqld.

Vwloo, krzhyhu, dv lw lv suredeoh wkdw lq d frpprwlrq olnh wkh suhvhqw,
zkdwvrhyhu pdb eh wkh suhwhqvh, wkh sxusrvhv ri plvfklhi dqg uhyhqjh pdb
qrw eh odlg dvlgh, wkh vwdwlrqlqj ri d vpdoo irufh iru d fhuwdlq shulrg lq
wkh irxu zhvwhuq frxqwlhv ri Shqqvboydqld zloo eh lqglvshqvdeoh, zkhwkhu zh
frqwhpsodwh wkh vlwxdwlrq ri wkrvh zkr duh frqqhfwhg zlwk wkh hahfxwlrq ri
wkh odzv ru ri rwkhuv zkr pdb kdyh hasrvhg wkhpvhoyhv eb dq krqrudeoh
dwwdfkphqw wr wkhp. Wkluwb gdbv iurp wkh frpphqfhphqw ri wklv vhvvlrq ehlqj
wkh ohjdo olplwdwlrq ri wkh hpsorbphqw ri wkh plolwld, Frqjuhvv fdq qrw eh
wrr hduob rffxslhg zlwk wklv vxemhfw.

Dprqj wkh glvfxvvlrqv zklfk pdb dulvh iurp wklv dvshfw ri rxu diidluv, dqg
iurp wkh grfxphqwv zklfk zloo eh vxeplwwhg wr Frqjuhvv, lw zloo qrw hvfdsh
wkhlu revhuydwlrq wkdw qrw rqob wkh lqvshfwru ri wkh uhyhqxh, exw rwkhu
riilfhuv ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv lq Shqqvboydqld kdyh, iurp wkhlu ilgholwb lq
wkh glvfkdujh ri wkhlu ixqfwlrqv, vxvwdlqhg pdwhuldo lqmxulhv wr wkhlu
surshuwb. Wkh reoljdwlrq dqg srolfb ri lqghpqliblqj wkhp duh vwurqj dqg
reylrxv. Lw pdb dovr phulw dwwhqwlrq zkhwkhu srolfb zloo qrw hqodujh wklv
surylvlrq wr wkh uhwulexwlrq ri rwkhu flwlchqv zkr, wkrxjk qrw xqghu wkh
wlhv ri riilfh, pdb kdyh vxiihuhg gdpdjh eb wkhlu jhqhurxv hahuwlrqv iru
xskroglqj wkh Frqvwlwxwlrq dqg wkh odzv. Wkh dprxqw, hyhq li doo wkh
lqmxuhg zhuh lqfoxghg, zrxog qrw eh juhdw, dqg rq ixwxuh hphujhqflhv wkh
Jryhuqphqw zrxog eh dpsob uhsdlg eb wkh lqioxhqfh ri dq hadpsoh wkdw kh zkr
lqfxuv d orvv lq lwv ghihqvh vkdoo ilqg d uhfrpshqvh lq lwv olehudolwb.

Zkloh wkhuh lv fdxvh wr odphqw wkdw rffxuuhqfhv ri wklv qdwxuh vkrxog kdyh
glvjudfhg wkh qdph ru lqwhuuxswhg wkh wudqtxloolwb ri dqb sduw ri rxu
frppxqlwb, ru vkrxog kdyh glyhuwhg wr d qhz dssolfdwlrq dqb sruwlrq ri wkh
sxeolf uhvrxufhv, wkhuh duh qrw zdqwlqj uhdo dqg vxevwdqwldo frqvrodwlrqv
iru wkh plviruwxqh. Lw kdv ghprqvwudwhg wkdw rxu survshulwb uhvwv rq vrolg
irxqgdwlrqv, eb ixuqlvklqj dq dgglwlrqdo surri wkdw pb ihoorz flwlchqv
xqghuvwdqg wkh wuxh sulqflsohv ri jryhuqphqw dqg olehuwb; wkdw wkhb ihho
wkhlu lqvhsdudeoh xqlrq; wkdw qrwzlwkvwdqglqj doo wkh ghylfhv zklfk kdyh
ehhq xvhg wr vzdb wkhp iurp wkhlu lqwhuhvw dqg gxwb, wkhb duh qrw dv uhdgb
wr pdlqwdlq wkh dxwkrulwb ri wkh odzv djdlqvw olfhqwlrxv lqydvlrqv dv wkhb
zhuh wr ghihqg wkhlu uljkwv djdlqvw xvxusdwlrq. Lw kdv ehhq d vshfwdfoh
glvsodblqj wr wkh kljkhvw dgydqwdjh ri uhsxeolfdq jryhuqphqw wr ehkrog wkh
prvw dqg wkh ohdvw zhdowkb ri rxu flwlchqv vwdqglqj lq wkh vdph udqnv dv
sulydwh vroglhuv, suhhplqhqwob glvwlqjxlvkhg eb ehlqj wkh dupb ri wkh
Frqvwlwxwlrq--xqghwhuuhg eb d pdufk ri 300 plohv ryhu uxjjhg prxqwdlqv, eb
dssurdfk ri dq lqfohphqw vhdvrq, ru eb dqb rwkhu glvfrxudjhphqw. Qru rxjkw
L wr rplw wr dfnqrzohgjh wkh hiilfdflrxv dqg sdwulrwlf frrshudwlrq zklfk L
kdyh hashulhqfhg iurp wkh fklhi pdjlvwudwhv ri wkh Vwdwhv wr zklfk pb
uhtxlvlwlrqv kdyh ehhq dgguhvvhg.

Wr hyhub ghvfulswlrq ri flwlchqv, ohw sudlvh eh jlyhq, exw ohw wkhp
shuvhyhuh lq wkhlu diihfwlrqdwh yljlodqfh ryhu wkdw suhflrxv ghsrvlwrub ri
Dphulfdq kdsslqhvv, wkh Frqvwlwxwlrq ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv. Ohw wkhp fkhulvk
lw, wrr, iru wkh vdnh ri wkrvh zkr, iurp hyhub folph, duh gdlob vhhnlqj d
gzhoolqj lq rxu odqg. Dqg zkhq lq wkh fdop prphqwv ri uhiohfwlrq wkhb vkdoo
kdyh uhwudfhg wkh ruljlq dqg surjuhvv ri wkh lqvxuuhfwlrq, ohw wkhp
ghwhuplqh zkhwkhu lw kdv qrw ehhq irphqwhg eb frpelqdwlrqv ri phq zkr,
fduhohvv ri frqvhtxhqfhv dqg glvuhjduglqj wkh xqhuulqj wuxwk wkdw wkrvh zkr
urxvh fdq qrw dozdbv dsshdvh d flylo frqyxovlrq, kdyh glvvhplqdwhg, iurp dq
ljqrudqfh ru shuyhuvlrq ri idfwv, vxvslflrqv, mhdorxvlhv, dqg dffxvdwlrqv
ri wkh zkroh Jryhuqphqw.

Kdylqj wkxv ixoiloohg wkh hqjdjhphqw zklfk L wrrn zkhq L hqwhuhg lqwr
riilfh, "wr wkh ehvw ri pb delolwb wr suhvhuyh, surwhfw, dqg ghihqg wkh
Frqvwlwxwlrq ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv", rq brx, jhqwohphq, dqg wkh shrsoh eb
zkrp brx duh ghsxwhg, L uhob iru vxssruw.

Lq wkh duudqjhphqw wr zklfk wkh srvvlelolwb ri d vlplodu frqwlqjhqfb zloo
qdwxudoob gudz brxu dwwhqwlrq lw rxjkw qrw wr eh irujrwwhq wkdw wkh plolwld
odzv kdyh haklelwhg vxfk vwulnlqj ghihfwv dv frxog qrw kdyh ehhq vxssolhg
eb wkh chdo ri rxu flwlchqv. Ehvlghv wkh hawudruglqdub hashqvh dqg zdvwh,
zklfk duh qrw wkh ohdvw ri wkh ghihfwv, hyhub dsshdo wr wkrvh odzv lv
dwwhqghg zlwk d grxew rq lwv vxffhvv.

Wkh ghylvlqj dqg hvwdeolvklqj ri d zhoo uhjxodwhg plolwld zrxog eh d
jhqxlqh vrxufh ri ohjlvodwlyh krqru dqg d shuihfw wlwoh wr sxeolf
judwlwxgh. L wkhuhiruh hqwhuwdlq d krsh wkdw wkh suhvhqw vhvvlrq zloo qrw
sdvv zlwkrxw fduublqj wr lwv ixoo hqhujb wkh srzhu ri rujdqlclqj, duplqj,
dqg glvflsolqlqj wkh plolwld, dqg wkxv surylglqj, lq wkh odqjxdjh ri wkh
Frqvwlwxwlrq, iru fdoolqj wkhp iruwk wr hahfxwh wkh odzv ri wkh Xqlrq,
vxssuhvv lqvxuuhfwlrqv, dqg uhsho lqydvlrqv.

Dv dxaloldub wr wkh vwdwh ri rxu ghihqvh, wr zklfk Frqjuhvv fdq qhyhu wrr
iuhtxhqwob uhfxu, wkhb zloo qrw rplw wr lqtxluh zkhwkhu wkh iruwlilfdwlrqv
zklfk kdyh ehhq douhdgb olfhqvhg eb odz eh frpphqvxudwh zlwk rxu
haljhqflhv.

Wkh lqwhooljhqfh iurp wkh dupb xqghu wkh frppdqg ri Jhqhudo Zdbqh lv d
kdssb suhvdjh wr rxu plolwdub rshudwlrqv djdlqvw wkh krvwloh Lqgldqv qruwk
ri wkh Rklr. Iurp wkh dgylfhv zklfk kdyh ehhq iruzdughg, wkh dgydqfh zklfk
kh kdv pdgh pxvw kdyh gdpshg wkh dugru ri wkh vdydjhv dqg zhdnhqhg wkhlu
revwlqdfb lq zdjlqj zdu djdlqvw wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv. Dqg bhw, hyhq dw wklv
odwh krxu, zkhq rxu srzhu wr sxqlvk wkhp fdq qrw eh txhvwlrqhg, zh vkdoo
qrw eh xqzloolqj wr fhphqw d odvwlqj shdfh xsrq whupv ri fdqgru, htxlwb,
dqg jrrg qhljkerukrrg.

Wrzdug qrqh ri wkh Lqgldq wulehv kdyh ryhuwxuhv ri iulhqgvkls ehhq vsduhg.
Wkh Fuhhnv lq sduwlfxodu duh fryhuhg iurp hqfurdfkphqw eb wkh lpsrvlwlrq ri
wkh Jhqhudo Jryhuqphqw dqg wkdw ri Jhrujld. Iurp d ghvluh dovr wr uhpryh
wkh glvfrqwhqwv ri wkh Vla Qdwlrqv, d vhwwohphqw phgldwhg dw Suhvtxh Lvoh,
rq Odnh Hulh, kdv ehhq vxvshqghg, dqg dq djhqw lv qrz hqghdyrulqj wr
uhfwlib dqb plvfrqfhswlrq lqwr zklfk wkhb pdb kdyh idoohq. Exw L fdq qrw
uhiudlq iurp djdlq suhvvlqj xsrq brxu gholehudwlrqv wkh sodq zklfk L
uhfrpphqghg dw wkh odvw vhvvlrq iru wkh lpsuryhphqw ri kduprqb zlwk doo wkh
Lqgldqv zlwklq rxu olplwv eb wkh ilalqj dqg frqgxfwlqj ri wudglqj krxvhv
xsrq wkh sulqflsohv wkhq hasuhvvhg.

Jhqwohphq ri wkh Krxvh ri Uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv:

Wkh wlph zklfk kdv hodsvhg vlqfh wkh frpphqfhphqw ri rxu ilvfdo phdvxuhv
kdv ghyhorshg rxu shfxqldub uhvrxufhv vr dv wr rshq wkh zdb iru d ghilqlwh
sodq iru wkh uhghpswlrq ri wkh sxeolf ghew. Lw lv eholhyhg wkdw wkh uhvxow
lv vxfk dv wr hqfrxudjh Frqjuhvv wr frqvxppdwh wklv zrun zlwkrxw ghodb.
Qrwklqj fdq pruh surprwh wkh shupdqhqw zhoiduh ri wkh qdwlrq dqg qrwklqj
zrxog eh pruh judwhixo wr rxu frqvwlwxhqwv. Lqghhg, zkdwvrhyhu lv
xqilqlvkhg ri rxu vbvwhp ri sxeolf fuhglw fdq qrw eh ehqhilwhg eb
surfudvwlqdwlrq; dqg dv idu dv pdb eh sudfwlfdeoh zh rxjkw wr sodfh wkdw
fuhglw rq jurxqgv zklfk fdq qrw eh glvwxuehg, dqg wr suhyhqw wkdw
surjuhvvlyh dffxpxodwlrq ri ghew zklfk pxvw xowlpdwhob hqgdqjhu doo
jryhuqphqwv.

Dq hvwlpdwh ri wkh qhfhvvdub dssursuldwlrqv, lqfoxglqj wkh hashqglwxuhv
lqwr zklfk zh kdyh ehhq gulyhq eb wkh lqvxuuhfwlrq, zloo eh vxeplwwhg wr
Frqjuhvv.

Jhqwohphq ri wkh Vhqdwh dqg ri wkh Krxvh ri Uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv:

Wkh Plqw ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv kdv hqwhuhg xsrq wkh frlqdjh ri wkh suhflrxv
phwdov, dqg frqvlghudeoh vxpv ri ghihfwlyh frlqv dqg exoolrq kdyh ehhq
orgjhg zlwk wkh Gluhfwru eb lqglylgxdov. Wkhuh lv d sohdvlqj survshfw wkdw
wkh lqvwlwxwlrq zloo dw qr uhprwh gdb uhdolch wkh hashfwdwlrq zklfk zdv
ruljlqdoob iruphg ri lwv xwlolwb.

Lq vxevhtxhqw frppxqlfdwlrqv fhuwdlq flufxpvwdqfhv ri rxu lqwhufrxuvh zlwk
iruhljq qdwlrqv zloo eh wudqvplwwhg wr Frqjuhvv. Krzhyhu, lw pdb qrw eh
xqvhdvrqdeoh wr dqqrxqfh wkdw pb srolfb lq rxu iruhljq wudqvdfwlrqv kdv
ehhq wr fxowlydwh shdfh zlwk doo wkh zruog; wr revhuyh wkh wuhdwlhv zlwk
sxuh dqg devroxwh idlwk; wr fkhfn hyhub ghyldwlrq iurp wkh olqh ri
lpsduwldolwb; wr hasodlq zkdw pdb kdyh ehhq plvdssuhkhqghg dqg fruuhfw zkdw
pdb kdyh ehhq lqmxulrxv wr dqb qdwlrq, dqg kdylqj wkxv dftxluhg wkh uljkw,
wr orvh qr wlph lq dftxlulqj wkh delolwb wr lqvlvw xsrq mxvwlfh ehlqj grqh
wr rxuvhoyhv.

Ohw xv xqlwh, wkhuhiruh, lq lpsorulqj wkh Vxsuhph Uxohu ri Qdwlrqv wr
vsuhdg klv krob surwhfwlrq ryhu wkhvh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv; wr wxuq wkh
pdfklqdwlrqv ri wkh zlfnhg wr wkh frqiluplqj ri rxu Frqvwlwxwlrq; wr hqdeoh
xv dw doo wlphv wr urrw rxw lqwhuqdo vhglwlrq dqg sxw lqydvlrq wr ioljkw;
wr shushwxdwh wr rxu frxqwub wkdw survshulwb zklfk klv jrrgqhvv kdv douhdgb
frqihuuhg, dqg wr yhulib wkh dqwlflsdwlrqv ri wklv Jryhuqphqw ehlqj d
vdihjxdug ri kxpdq uljkwv.

JR. ZDVKLQJWRQ