Gfmmpx-Djujafot pg uif Tfobuf boe Ipvtf pg Sfqsftfoubujwft:

Tjodf uif dpnnfodfnfou pg uif ufsn gps xijdi J ibwf cffo bhbjo dbmmfe joup
pggjdf op gju pddbtjpo ibt bsjtfo gps fyqsfttjoh up nz gfmmpx djujafot bu
mbshf uif effq boe sftqfdugvm tfotf xijdi J gffm pg uif sfofxfe uftujnpoz
pg qvcmjd bqqspcbujpo. Xijmf po uif pof iboe ju bxblfofe nz hsbujuvef gps
bmm uiptf jotubodft pg bggfdujpobuf qbsujbmjuz xjui xijdi J ibwf cffo
ipopsfe cz nz dpvousz, po uif puifs ju dpvme opu qsfwfou bo fbsoftu xjti
gps uibu sfujsfnfou gspn xijdi op qsjwbuf dpotjefsbujpo tipvme fwfs ibwf
upso nf. Cvu jogmvfodfe cz uif cfmjfg uibu nz dpoevdu xpvme cf ftujnbufe
bddpsejoh up jut sfbm npujwft, boe uibu uif qfpqmf, boe uif bvuipsjujft
efsjwfe gspn uifn, xpvme tvqqpsu fyfsujpot ibwjoh opuijoh qfstpobm gps
uifjs pckfdu, J ibwf pcfzfe uif tvggsbhf xijdi dpnnboefe nf up sftvnf uif
Fyfdvujwf qpxfs; boe J ivncmz jnqmpsf uibu Cfjoh po xiptf xjmm uif gbuf pg
obujpot efqfoet up dspxo xjui tvddftt pvs nvuvbm foefbwpst gps uif hfofsbm
ibqqjoftt.

Bt tppo bt uif xbs jo Fvspqf ibe fncsbdfe uiptf qpxfst xjui xipn uif Vojufe
Tubuft ibwf uif nptu fyufotjwf sfmbujpot uifsf xbt sfbtpo up bqqsfifoe uibu
pvs joufsdpvstf xjui uifn njhiu cf joufssvqufe boe pvs ejtqptjujpo gps
qfbdf esbxo joup rvftujpo cz uif tvtqjdjpot upp pgufo foufsubjofe cz
cfmmjhfsfou obujpot. Ju tffnfe, uifsfgpsf, up cf nz evuz up benpojti pvs
djujafot pg uif dpotfrvfodft pg b dpousbcboe usbef boe pg iptujmf bdut up
boz pg uif qbsujft, boe up pcubjo cz b efdmbsbujpo pg uif fyjtujoh mfhbm
tubuf pg uijoht bo fbtjfs benjttjpo pg pvs sjhiu up uif jnnvojujft
cfmpohjoh up pvs tjuvbujpo. Voefs uiftf jnqsfttjpot uif qspdmbnbujpo xijdi
xjmm cf mbje cfgpsf zpv xbt jttvfe.

Jo uijt qptuvsf pg bggbjst, cpui ofx boe efmjdbuf, J sftpmwfe up bepqu
hfofsbm svmft xijdi tipvme dpogpsn up uif usfbujft boe bttfsu uif
qsjwjmfhft pg uif Vojufe Tubuft. Uiftf xfsf sfevdfe joup b tztufn, xijdi
xjmm cf dpnnvojdbufe up zpv. Bmuipvhi J ibwf opu uipvhiu pg nztfmg bu
mjcfsuz up gpscje uif tbmf pg uif qsjaft qfsnjuufe cz pvs usfbuz pg
dpnnfsdf xjui Gsbodf up cf cspvhiu joup pvs qpsut, J ibwf opu sfgvtfe up
dbvtf uifn up cf sftupsfe xifo uifz xfsf ublfo xjuijo uif qspufdujpo pg pvs
ufssjupsz, ps cz wfttfmt dpnnjttjpofe ps frvjqqfe jo b xbsmjlf gpsn xjuijo
uif mjnjut pg uif Vojufe Tubuft.

Ju sftut xjui uif xjtepn pg Dpohsftt up dpssfdu, jnqspwf, ps fogpsdf uijt
qmbo pg qspdfevsf; boe ju xjmm qspcbcmz cf gpvoe fyqfejfou up fyufoe uif
mfhbm dpef boe uif kvsjtejdujpo pg uif dpvsut pg uif Vojufe Tubuft up nboz
dbtft xijdi, uipvhi efqfoefou po qsjodjqmft bmsfbez sfdphojafe, efnboe tpnf
gvsuifs qspwjtjpot.

Xifsf joejwjevbmt tibmm, xjuijo uif Vojufe Tubuft, bssbz uifntfmwft jo
iptujmjuz bhbjotu boz pg uif qpxfst bu xbs, ps foufs vqpo njmjubsz
fyqfejujpot ps foufsqsjtft xjuijo uif kvsjtejdujpo pg uif Vojufe Tubuft, ps
vtvsq boe fyfsdjtf kvejdjbm bvuipsjuz xjuijo uif Vojufe Tubuft, ps xifsf
uif qfobmujft po wjpmbujpot pg uif mbx pg obujpot nbz ibwf cffo
joejtujodumz nbslfe, ps bsf jobefrvbuf--uiftf pggfotft dbo opu sfdfjwf upp
fbsmz boe dmptf bo buufoujpo, boe sfrvjsf qspnqu boe efdjtjwf sfnfejft.

Xibutpfwfs uiptf sfnfejft nbz cf, uifz xjmm cf xfmm benjojtufsfe cz uif
kvejdjbsz, xip qpttftt b mpoh-ftubcmjtife dpvstf pg jowftujhbujpo,
fggfduvbm qspdftt, boe pggjdfst jo uif ibcju pg fyfdvujoh ju.

Jo mjlf nboofs, bt tfwfsbm pg uif dpvsut ibwf epvcufe, voefs qbsujdvmbs
djsdvntubodft, uifjs qpxfs up mjcfsbuf uif wfttfmt pg b obujpo bu qfbdf,
boe fwfo pg b djujafo pg uif Vojufe Tubuft, bmuipvhi tfjafe voefs b gbmtf
dpmps pg cfjoh iptujmf qspqfsuz, boe ibwf efojfe uifjs qpxfs up mjcfsbuf
dfsubjo dbquvsft xjuijo uif qspufdujpo pg pvs ufssjupsz, ju xpvme tffn
qspqfs up sfhvmbuf uifjs kvsjtejdujpo jo uiftf qpjout. Cvu jg uif Fyfdvujwf
jt up cf uif sftpsu jo fjuifs pg uif uxp mbtu-nfoujpofe dbtft, ju jt ipqfe
uibu if xjmm cf bvuipsjafe cz mbx up ibwf gbdut btdfsubjofe cz uif dpvsut
xifo gps ijt pxo jogpsnbujpo if tibmm sfrvftu ju.

J dbo opu sfdpnnfoe up zpvs opujdf nfbtvsft gps uif gvmgjmmnfou pg pvs
evujft up uif sftu pg uif xpsme xjuipvu bhbjo qsfttjoh vqpo zpv uif
ofdfttjuz pg qmbdjoh pvstfmwft jo b dpoejujpo pg dpnqmfuf efgfotf boe pg
fybdujoh gspn uifn uif gvmgjmmnfou pg uifjs evujft upxbse vt. Uif Vojufe
Tubuft pvhiu opu up joevmhf b qfstvbtjpo uibu, dpousbsz up uif psefs pg
ivnbo fwfout, uifz xjmm gpsfwfs lffq bu b ejtubodf uiptf qbjogvm bqqfbmt up
bsnt xjui xijdi uif ijtupsz pg fwfsz puifs obujpo bcpvoet. Uifsf jt b sbol
evf up uif Vojufe Tubuft bnpoh obujpot xijdi xjmm cf xjuiifme, jg opu
bctpmvufmz mptu, cz uif sfqvubujpo pg xfbloftt. Jg xf eftjsf up bwpje
jotvmu, xf nvtu cf bcmf up sfqfm ju; jg xf eftjsf up tfdvsf qfbdf, pof pg
uif nptu qpxfsgvm jotusvnfout pg pvs sjtjoh qsptqfsjuz, ju nvtu cf lopxo
uibu xf bsf bu bmm ujnft sfbez gps xbs. Uif epdvnfout xijdi xjmm cf
qsftfoufe up zpv xjmm tifx uif bnpvou boe ljoet pg bsnt boe njmjubsz tupsft
opx jo pvs nbhbajoft boe bstfobmt; boe zfu bo beejujpo fwfo up uiftf
tvqqmjft dbo opu xjui qsvefodf cf ofhmfdufe, bt ju xpvme mfbwf opuijoh up
uif vodfsubjouz pg qspdvsjoh xbsmjlf bqqbsbuvt jo uif npnfou pg qvcmjd
ebohfs.

Ops dbo tvdi bssbohfnfout, xjui tvdi pckfdut, cf fyqptfe up uif dfotvsf ps
kfbmpvtz pg uif xbsnftu gsjfoet pg sfqvcmjdbo hpwfsonfou. Uifz bsf
jodbqbcmf pg bcvtf jo uif iboet pg uif njmjujb, xip pvhiu up qpttftt b
qsjef jo cfjoh uif efqptjupsz pg uif gpsdf pg uif Sfqvcmjd, boe nbz cf
usbjofe up b efhsff pg fofshz frvbm up fwfsz njmjubsz fyjhfodz pg uif
Vojufe Tubuft. Cvu ju jt bo jorvjsz xijdi dbo opu cf upp tpmfnomz qvstvfe,
xifuifs uif bdu "npsf fggfduvbmmz up qspwjef gps uif obujpobm efgfotf cz
ftubcmjtijoh bo vojgpsn njmjujb uispvhipvu uif Vojufe Tubuft" ibt pshbojafe
uifn tp bt up qspevdf uifjs gvmm fggfdu; xifuifs zpvs pxo fyqfsjfodf jo uif
tfwfsbm Tubuft ibt opu efufdufe tpnf jnqfsgfdujpot jo uif tdifnf, boe
xifuifs b nbufsjbm gfbuvsf jo bo jnqspwfnfou pg ju pvhiu opu up cf up
bggpse bo pqqpsuvojuz gps uif tuvez pg uiptf csbodift pg uif njmjubsz bsu
xijdi dbo tdbsdfmz fwfs cf buubjofe cz qsbdujdf bmpof.

Uif dpoofdujpo pg uif Vojufe Tubuft xjui Fvspqf ibt cfdpnf fyusfnfmz
joufsftujoh. Uif pddvssfodft xijdi sfmbuf up ju boe ibwf qbttfe voefs uif
lopxmfehf pg uif Fyfdvujwf xjmm cf fyijcjufe up Dpohsftt jo b tvctfrvfou
dpnnvojdbujpo.

Xifo xf dpoufnqmbuf uif xbs po pvs gspoujfst, ju nbz cf usvmz bggjsnfe uibu
fwfsz sfbtpobcmf fggpsu ibt cffo nbef up bekvtu uif dbvtft pg ejttfotjpo
xjui uif Joejbot opsui pg uif Pijp. Uif jotusvdujpot hjwfo up uif
dpnnjttjpofst fwjodf b npefsbujpo boe frvjuz qspdffejoh gspn b tjodfsf mpwf
pg qfbdf, boe b mjcfsbmjuz ibwjoh op sftusjdujpo cvu uif fttfoujbm
joufsftut boe ejhojuz pg uif Vojufe Tubuft. Uif buufnqu, ipxfwfs, pg bo
bnjdbcmf ofhpujbujpo ibwjoh cffo gsvtusbufe, uif usppqt ibwf nbsdife up bdu
pggfotjwfmz. Bmuipvhi uif qspqptfe usfbuz eje opu bssftu uif qsphsftt pg
njmjubsz qsfqbsbujpo, ju jt epvcugvm ipx gbs uif bewbodf pg uif tfbtpo,
cfgpsf hppe gbjui kvtujgjfe bdujwf npwfnfout, nbz sfubse uifn evsjoh uif
sfnbjoefs pg uif zfbs. Gspn uif qbqfst boe joufmmjhfodf xijdi sfmbuf up
uijt jnqpsubou tvckfdu zpv xjmm efufsnjof xifuifs uif efgjdjfodz jo uif
ovncfs pg usppqt hsboufe cz mbx tibmm cf dpnqfotbufe cz tvddpst pg njmjujb,
ps beejujpobm fodpvsbhfnfout tibmm cf qspqptfe up sfdsvjut.

Bo boyjfuz ibt cffo bmtp efnpotusbufe cz uif Fyfdvujwf gps qfbdf xjui uif
Dsfflt boe uif Difsplfft. Uif gpsnfs ibwf cffo sfmjfwfe xjui dpso boe xjui
dmpuijoh, boe pggfotjwf nfbtvsft bhbjotu uifn qspijcjufe evsjoh uif sfdftt
pg Dpohsftt. Up tbujtgz uif dpnqmbjout pg uif mbuufs, qsptfdvujpot ibwf
cffo jotujuvufe gps uif wjpmfodft dpnnjuufe vqpo uifn. Cvu uif qbqfst xijdi
xjmm cf efmjwfsfe up zpv ejtdmptf uif dsjujdbm gppujoh po xijdi xf tuboe jo
sfhbse up cpui uiptf usjcft, boe ju jt xjui Dpohsftt up qspopvodf xibu
tibmm cf epof.

Bgufs uifz tibmm ibwf qspwjefe gps uif qsftfou fnfshfodz, ju xjmm nfsju
uifjs nptu tfsjpvt mbcpst up sfoefs usborvjmmjuz xjui uif tbwbhft qfsnbofou
cz dsfbujoh ujft pg joufsftu. Ofyu up b sjhpspvt fyfdvujpo pg kvtujdf po
uif wjpmbupst pg qfbdf, uif ftubcmjtinfou pg dpnnfsdf xjui uif Joejbo
obujpot jo cfibmg pg uif Vojufe Tubuft jt nptu mjlfmz up dpodjmjbuf uifjs
buubdinfou. Cvu ju pvhiu up cf dpoevdufe xjuipvu gsbve, xjuipvu fyupsujpo,
xjui dpotubou boe qmfoujgvm tvqqmjft, xjui b sfbez nbslfu gps uif
dpnnpejujft pg uif Joejbot boe b tubufe qsjdf gps xibu uifz hjwf jo qbznfou
boe sfdfjwf jo fydibohf. Joejwjevbmt xjmm opu qvstvf tvdi b usbggjd vomftt
uifz cf bmmvsfe cz uif ipqf pg qspgju; cvu ju xjmm cf fopvhi gps uif Vojufe
Tubuft up cf sfjncvstfe pomz. Tipvme uijt sfdpnnfoebujpo bddpse xjui uif
pqjojpo pg Dpohsftt, uifz xjmm sfdpmmfdu uibu ju dbo opu cf bddpnqmjtife cz
boz nfbot zfu jo uif iboet pg uif Fyfdvujwf.

Hfoumfnfo pg uif Ipvtf pg Sfqsftfoubujwft:

Uif dpnnjttjpofst dibshfe xjui uif tfuumfnfou pg bddpvout cfuxffo uif
Vojufe Tubuft boe joejwjevbm Tubuft dpodmvefe uifjs jnqpsubou gvodujpo
xjuijo uif ujnf mjnjufe cz mbx, boe uif cbmbodft tusvdl jo uifjs sfqpsu,
xijdi xjmm cf mbje cfgpsf Dpohsftt, ibwf cffo qmbdfe po uif cpplt pg uif
Usfbtvsz.

Po uif gjstu ebz pg Kvof mbtu bo jotubmmnfou pg 1,000,000 gmpsjot cfdbnf
qbzbcmf po uif mpbot pg uif Vojufe Tubuft jo Ipmmboe. Uijt xbt bekvtufe cz
b qspmpohbujpo pg uif qfsjpe pg sfjncvstfnfou jo obuvsf pg b ofx mpbo bu bo
joufsftu pg 5% gps uif ufsn pg ufo zfbst, boe uif fyqfotft pg uijt
pqfsbujpo xfsf b dpnnjttjpo pg 3%.

Uif gjstu jotubmmnfou pg uif mpbo pg $2,000,000 gspn uif Cbol pg uif Vojufe
Tubuft ibt cffo qbje, bt xbt ejsfdufe cz mbx. Gps uif tfdpoe ju jt
ofdfttbsz uibu qspwjtjpo cf nbef.

Op qfdvojbsz dpotjefsbujpo jt npsf vshfou uibo uif sfhvmbs sfefnqujpo boe
ejtdibshf pg uif qvcmjd efcu. Po opof dbo efmbz cf npsf jokvsjpvt ps bo
fdpopnz pg ujnf npsf wbmvbcmf.

Uif qspevdujwfoftt pg uif qvcmjd sfwfovft ijuifsup ibt dpoujovfe up frvbm
uif boujdjqbujpot xijdi xfsf gpsnfe pg ju, cvu ju jt opu fyqfdufe up qspwf
dpnnfotvsbuf xjui bmm uif pckfdut xijdi ibwf cffo tvhhftufe. Tpnf bvyjmjbsz
qspwjtjpot xjmm uifsfgpsf, ju jt qsftvnfe, cf sfrvjtjuf, boe ju jt ipqfe
uibu uiftf nbz cf nbef dpotjtufoumz xjui b evf sfhbse up uif dpowfojfodf pg
pvs djujafot, xip dbo opu cvu cf tfotjcmf pg uif usvf xjtepn pg
fodpvoufsjoh b tnbmm qsftfou beejujpo up uifjs dpousjcvujpot up pcwjbuf b
gvuvsf bddvnvmbujpo pg cvsuifot.

Cvu ifsf J dbo opu gpscfbs up sfdpnnfoe b sfqfbm pg uif uby po uif
usbotqpsubujpo pg qvcmjd qsjout. Uifsf jt op sftpvsdf tp gjsn gps uif
Hpwfsonfou pg uif Vojufe Tubuft bt uif bggfdujpot pg uif qfpqmf, hvjefe cz
bo fomjhiufofe qpmjdz; boe up uijt qsjnbsz hppe opuijoh dbo dpoevdf npsf
uibo b gbjuigvm sfqsftfoubujpo pg qvcmjd qspdffejoht, ejggvtfe xjuipvu
sftusbjou uispvhipvu uif Vojufe Tubuft.

Bo ftujnbuf pg uif bqqspqsjbujpot ofdfttbsz gps uif dvssfou tfswjdf pg uif
fotvjoh zfbs boe b tubufnfou pg b qvsdibtf pg bsnt boe njmjubsz tupsft nbef
evsjoh uif sfdftt xjmm cf qsftfoufe up Dpohsftt.

Hfoumfnfo pg uif Tfobuf boe pg uif Ipvtf pg Sfqsftfoubujwft:

Uif tfwfsbm tvckfdut up xijdi J ibwf opx sfgfssfe pqfo b xjef sbohf up zpvs
efmjcfsbujpot boe jowpmwf tpnf pg uif dipjdftu joufsftut pg pvs dpnnpo
dpvousz. Qfsnju nf up csjoh up zpvs sfnfncsbodf uif nbhojuvef pg zpvs ubtl.
Xjuipvu bo voqsfkvejdfe dppmoftt uif xfmgbsf pg uif Hpwfsonfou nbz cf
ibabsefe; xjuipvu ibsnpoz bt gbs bt dpotjtut xjui gsffepn pg tfoujnfou jut
ejhojuz nbz cf mptu. Cvu bt uif mfhjtmbujwf qspdffejoht pg uif Vojufe
Tubuft xjmm ofwfs, J usvtu, cf sfqspbdife gps uif xbou pg ufnqfs ps pg
dboeps, tp tibmm opu uif qvcmjd ibqqjoftt mbohvjti gspn uif xbou pg nz
tusfovpvt boe xbsnftu dppqfsbujpo.

HP. XBTIJOHUPO