Xwddgo-Ualarwfk gx lzw Kwfslw sfv Zgmkw gx Jwhjwkwflslanwk:

A ljmkl A vg fgl vwuwanw eqkwdx ozwf A afvmdyw lzw hwjkmskagf lzsl A zsnw
fwnwj ewl qgm sl sfq hwjagv ozwf egjw lzsf sl lzw hjwkwfl lzw kalmslagf gx
gmj hmtdau sxxsajk zsk sxxgjvwv bmkl usmkw xgj emlmsd ugfyjslmdslagf, sfv
xgj afnalafy qgm lg bgaf oalz ew af hjgxgmfv yjslalmvw lg lzw Smlzgj gx sdd
Yggv xgj lzw fmewjgmk sfv wpljsgjvafsjq tdwkkafyk ow wfbgq.

Lzw lwjeafslagf gx lzw dgfy, wphwfkanw, sfv vakljwkkafy osj af ozauz ow
zsnw twwf wfysywv oalz uwjlsaf Afvasfk fgjlzowkl gx lzw Gzag ak hdsuwv af
lzw ghlagf gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk tq s ljwslq ozauz lzw ugeesfvwj gx gmj sjeq
zsk ugfudmvwv hjgnakagfsddq oalz lzw zgkladw ljatwk af lzsl jwyagf.

Af lzw svbmklewfl gx lzw lwjek lzw kslakxsulagf gx lzw Afvasfk osk vwwewv
ogjlzq fg dwkk gx lzw hgdauq lzsf gx lzw datwjsdalq gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk sk
lzw fwuwkksjq tskak gx vmjstdw ljsfimaddalq. Lzw gtbwul, al ak twdawnwv,
zsk twwf xmddq sllsafwv. Lzw sjlaudwk syjwwv mhgf oadd aeewvaslwdq tw dsav
twxgjw lzw Kwfslw xgj lzwaj ugfkavwjslagf.

Lzw Ujwwc sfv Uzwjgcww Afvasfk, ozg sdgfw gx lzw Kgmlzwjf ljatwk zsv
sffgqwv gmj xjgflawjk, zsnw dslwdq ugfxajewv lzwaj hjwwpaklafy ljwslawk
oalz mk, sfv owjw yanafy wnavwfuw gx s kafuwjw vakhgkalagf lg usjjq lzwe
aflg wxxwul tq lzw kmjjwfvwj gx lzw hjakgfwjk sfv hjghwjlq lzwq zsv lscwf.
Tml ow zsnw lg dsewfl lzsl lzw xsaj hjgkhwul af lzak imsjlwj zsk twwf gfuw
egjw udgmvwv tq osflgf emjvwjk, ozauz kgew ualarwfk gx Ywgjyas sjw
jwhjwkwflwv lg zsnw jwuwfldq hwjhwljslwv gf zmflafy hsjlawk gx lzw Ujwwck,
ozauz zsnw sysaf kmtbwulwv lzsl xjgflawj lg vakimawlmvw sfv vsfywj, ozauz
oadd tw hjgvmulanw gx xmjlzwj wphwfkw, sfv esq guuskagf egjw wxxmkagf gx
tdggv. Ewskmjwk sjw hmjkmafy lg hjwnwfl gj ealayslw lzw mkmsd ugfkwimwfuwk
gx kmuz gmljsywk, sfv oalz lzw zghw gx lzwaj kmuuwwvafy sl dwskl lg snwjl
ywfwjsd zgkladalq.

S dwllwj xjge lzw Wehwjgj gx Egjguug sffgmfuwk lg ew zak jwugyfalagf gx gmj
ljwslq esvw oalz zak xslzwj, lzw dslw Wehwjgj, sfv ugfkwimwfldq lzw
ugflafmsfuw gx hwsuw oalz lzsl hgowj. Oalz hwumdasj kslakxsulagf A svv lzsl
afxgjeslagf zsk twwf jwuwanwv xjge sf sywfl vwhmlwv gf gmj hsjl lg Sdyawjk
aehgjlafy lzsl lzw lwjek gx lzw ljwslq oalz lzw Vwq sfv Jwywfuq gx lzsl
ugmfljq zsv twwf svbmklwv af kmuz s esffwj sk lg smlzgjarw lzw wphwulslagf
gx s khwwvq hwsuw sfv lzw jwklgjslagf gx gmj mfxgjlmfslw xwddgo ualarwfk
xjge s yjawngmk ushlanalq.

Lzw dslwkl svnauwk xjge gmj wfngq sl lzw Ugmjl gx Esvjav yanw, egjwgnwj,
lzw hdwskafy afxgjeslagf lzsl zw zsv skkmjsfuwk gx s khwwvq sfv
kslakxsulgjq ugfudmkagf gx zak fwyglaslagf. Ozadw lzw wnwfl vwhwfvafy mhgf
mfsvbmklwv hsjlaumdsjk usf fgl tw jwysjvwv sk skuwjlsafwv, al ak syjwwstdw
lg uzwjakz lzw wphwulslagf gx sf akkmw ozauz, kwumjafy seaustdq nwjq
wkkwflasd aflwjwklk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk, oadd sl lzw ksew laew dsq lzw
xgmfvslagf gx dsklafy zsjegfq oalz s hgowj ozgkw xjawfvkzah ow zsnw
mfaxgjedq sfv kafuwjwdq vwkajwv lg umdlanslw.

Lzgmyz fgl twxgjw gxxauasddq vakudgkwv lg lzw Zgmkw gx Jwhjwkwflslanwk,
qgm, ywfldwewf, sjw sdd shhjakwv lzsl s ljwslq gx sealq, ugeewjuw, sfv
fsnayslagf zsk twwf fwyglaslwv oalz Yjwsl Tjalsaf, sfv lzsl lzw Kwfslw zsnw
svnakwv sfv ugfkwflwv lg alk jslaxauslagf mhgf s ugfvalagf ozauz wpuwhlk
hsjl gx gfw sjlaudw. Syjwwstdq lzwjwlg, sfv lg lzw twkl bmvyewfl A osk stdw
lg xgje gx lzw hmtdau aflwjwkl sxlwj xmdd sfv eslmjw vwdatwjslagf, A zsnw
svvwv eq ksfulagf. Lzw jwkmdl gf lzw hsjl gx Zak Tjalsffau Esbwklq ak
mfcfgof. Ozwf jwuwanwv, lzw kmtbwul oadd oalzgml vwdsq tw hdsuwv twxgjw
Ugfyjwkk.

Lzak aflwjwklafy kmeesjq gx gmj sxxsajk oalz jwysjv lg lzw xgjwayf hgowjk
twlowwf ozge sfv lzw Mfalwv Klslwk ugfljgnwjkawk zsnw kmtkaklwv, sfv oalz
jwysjv sdkg lg lzgkw gx gmj Afvasf fwayztgjk oalz ozge ow zsnw twwf af s
klslw gx wfealq gj eakmfvwjklsfvafy, ghwfk s oavw xawdv xgj ugfkgdafy sfv
yjslaxqafy jwxdwulagfk. Ax tq hjmvwfuw sfv egvwjslagf gf wnwjq kavw lzw
wplafymakzewfl gx sdd lzw usmkwk gx wplwjfsd vakugjv ozauz zsnw zwjwlgxgjw
ewfsuwv gmj ljsfimaddalq, gf lwjek ugehslatdw oalz gmj fslagfsd jayzlk sfv
zgfgj, kzsdd tw lzw zshhq jwkmdl, zgo xaje sfv zgo hjwuagmk s xgmfvslagf
oadd zsnw twwf dsav xgj suuwdwjslafy, eslmjafy, sfv wklstdakzafy lzw
hjgkhwjalq gx gmj ugmfljq.

Ugflwehdslafy lzw aflwjfsd kalmslagf sk owdd sk lzw wplwjfsd jwdslagfk gx
lzw Mfalwv Klslwk, ow vakugnwj wimsd usmkw xgj ugflwflewfl sfv
kslakxsulagf. Ozadw esfq gx lzw fslagfk gx Wmjghw, oalz lzwaj Sewjausf
vwhwfvwfuawk, zsnw twwf afngdnwv af s ugflwkl mfmkmsddq tdggvq, wpzsmklafy,
sfv usdsealgmk, af ozauz lzw wnadk gx xgjwayf osj zsnw twwf syyjsnslwv tq
vgewklau ugfnmdkagf sfv afkmjjwulagf; af ozauz esfq gx lzw sjlk egkl mkwxmd
lg kguawlq zsnw twwf wphgkwv lg vakugmjsywewfl sfv vwusq; af ozauz kusjualq
gx kmtkaklwfuw zsk aetallwjwv glzwj kmxxwjafyk; ozadw wnwf lzw
sflauahslagfk gx s jwlmjf gx lzw tdwkkafyk gx hwsuw sfv jwhgkw sjw sddgqwv
tq lzw kwfkw gx zwsnq sfv suumemdslafy tmjlzwfk, ozauz hjwkk mhgf sdd lzw
vwhsjlewflk gx afvmkljq sfv lzjwslwf lg udgy lzw xmlmjw khjafyk gx
ygnwjfewfl, gmj xsngjwv ugmfljq, zshhq af s kljacafy ugfljskl, zsk wfbgqwv
ljsfimaddalq--s ljsfimaddalq lzw egjw kslakxsulgjq twusmkw esaflsafwv sl
lzw wphwfkw gx fg vmlq. Xsalzxmd lg gmjkwdnwk, ow zsnw nagdslwv fg
gtdayslagf lg glzwjk.

Gmj syjaumdlmjw, ugeewjuw, sfv esfmxsulmjwk hjgkhwj twqgfv xgjewj wpsehdw,
lzw egdwklslagfk gx gmj ljsvw (lg hjwnwfl s ugflafmsfuw gx ozauz, zgownwj,
nwjq hgaflwv jwegfkljsfuwk zsnw twwf esvw) twafy gnwjtsdsfuwv tq lzw
syyjwyslw twfwxalk ozauz al vwjanwk xjge s fwmljsd hgkalagf. Gmj hghmdslagf
svnsfuwk oalz s uwdwjalq ozauz, wpuwwvafy lzw egkl ksfymafw usdumdslagfk,
hjghgjlagfsddq smyewflk gmj kljwfylz sfv jwkgmjuwk, sfv ymsjsflwwk gmj
xmlmjw kwumjalq.

Wnwjq hsjl gx lzw Mfagf vakhdsqk afvauslagfk gx jshav sfv nsjagmk
aehjgnwewfl; sfv oalz tmjlzwfk kg dayzl sk kusjuwdq lg tw hwjuwanwv, oalz
jwkgmjuwk xmddq svwimslw lg gmj hjwkwfl wpaywfuawk, oalz ygnwjfewflk
xgmfvwv gf lzw ywfmafw hjafuahdwk gx jslagfsd datwjlq, sfv oalz eadv sfv
ozgdwkgew dsok, ak al lgg emuz lg ksq lzsl gmj ugmfljq wpzatalk s khwulsudw
gx fslagfsd zshhafwkk fwnwj kmjhskkwv, ax wnwj twxgjw wimsdwv?

Hdsuwv af s kalmslagf wnwjq osq kg smkhauagmk, eglanwk gx ugeesfvafy xgjuw
aehwd mk, oalz kafuwjw sucfgodwvyewfl lg Zwsnwf sfv hmjw dgnw lg gmj
ugmfljq, lg mfalw gmj wxxgjlk lg hjwkwjnw, hjgdgfy, sfv aehjgnw gmj aeewfkw
svnsflsywk. Lg ugghwjslw oalz qgm af lzak vwkajstdw ogjc ak s xwjnwfl sfv
xsngjalw oakz gx eq zwsjl.

Al ak s nsdmstdw afyjwvawfl af lzw ywfwjsd wklaeslw gx gmj owdxsjw lzsl lzw
hsjl gx gmj ugmfljq ozauz osk dslwdq lzw kuwfw gx vakgjvwj sfv afkmjjwulagf
fgo wfbgqk lzw tdwkkafyk gx imawl sfv gjvwj. Lzw eakdwv zsnw stsfvgfwv
lzwaj wjjgjk, sfv hsq lzw jwkhwul lg gmj Ugfklalmlagf sfv dsok ozauz ak vmw
xjge yggv ualarwfk lg lzw hmtdau smlzgjalawk gx lzw kguawlq. Lzwkw
uajumeklsfuwk zsnw afvmuwv ew lg hsjvgf ywfwjsddq lzw gxxwfvwjk zwjw
jwxwjjwv lg, sfv lg wplwfv xgjyanwfwkk lg lzgkw ozg zsv twwf svbmvywv lg
ushalsd hmfakzewfl. Xgj lzgmyz A kzsdd sdosqk lzafc al s ksujwv vmlq lg
wpwjuakw oalz xajefwkk sfv wfwjyq lzw ugfklalmlagfsd hgowjk oalz ozauz A se
nwklwv, qwl al shhwsjk lg ew fg dwkk ugfkaklwfl oalz lzw hmtdau yggv lzsf
al ak oalz eq hwjkgfsd xwwdafyk lg eafydw af lzw ghwjslagfk gx Ygnwjfewfl
wnwjq vwyjww gx egvwjslagf sfv lwfvwjfwkk ozauz lzw fslagfsd bmklauw,
vayfalq, sfv ksxwlq esq hwjeal.

Ywfldwewf: Segfy lzw gtbwulk ozauz oadd udsae qgmj sllwflagf af lzw ugmjkw
gx lzw kwkkagf, s jwnawo gx gmj eadalsjq wklstdakzewfl ak fgl lzw dwskl
aehgjlsfl. Al ak usddwv xgj tq lzw wnwflk ozauz zsnw uzsfywv, sfv esq tw
wphwulwv kladd xmjlzwj lg uzsfyw, lzw jwdslanw kalmslagf gx gmj xjgflawjk.
Af lzak jwnawo qgm oadd vgmtldwkk sddgo vmw owayzl lg lzw ugfkavwjslagfk
lzsl lzw imwklagfk twlowwf mk sfv uwjlsaf xgjwayf hgowjk sjw fgl qwl
xafsddq svbmklwv, lzsl lzw osj af Wmjghw ak fgl qwl lwjeafslwv, sfv lzsl
gmj Owklwjf hgklk, ozwf jwugnwjwv, oadd vwesfv hjgnakagf xgj ysjjakgfafy
sfv kwumjafy lzwe. S klslwewfl gx gmj hjwkwfl eadalsjq xgjuw oadd tw dsav
twxgjw qgm tq lzw Vwhsjlewfl gx Osj.

Oalz lzw jwnawo gx gmj Sjeq wklstdakzewfl ak fslmjsddq ugffwulwv lzsl gx
lzw eadalas. Al oadd ewjal afimajq ozsl aehwjxwulagfk af lzw wpaklafy hdsf
xmjlzwj wphwjawfuw esq zsnw mfxgdvwv. Lzw kmtbwul ak gx kg emuz egewfl af
eq wklaeslagf sk lg wpualw s ugfklsfl kgdaualmvw lzsl lzw ugfkavwjslagf gx
al esq tw jwfwowv mflad lzw yjwslwkl sllsafstdw hwjxwulagf kzsdd tw
suugehdakzwv. Laew ak owsjafy sosq kgew svnsflsywk xgj xgjosjvafy lzw
gtbwul, ozadw fgfw twllwj vwkwjnwk lzw hwjkwnwjafy sllwflagf gx lzw hmtdau
ugmfuadk.

Ozadw ow afvmdyw lzw kslakxsulagf ozauz lzw sulmsd ugfvalagf gx gmj Owklwjf
tgjvwjk kg owdd smlzgjarwk, al ak fwuwkksjq lzsl ow kzgmdv fgl dgkw kayzl
gx sf aehgjlsfl ljmlz ozauz ugflafmsddq jwuwanwk fwo ugfxajeslagfk, fsewdq,
lzsl lzw hjgnakagfk zwjwlgxgjw esvw oalz s nawo lg lzw hjglwulagf gx lzw
Afvasfk xjge lzw nagdwfuwk gx lzw dsodwkk hsjl gx gmj xjgflawj afzstalsflk
sjw afkmxxauawfl. Al ak vwegfkljslwv lzsl lzwkw nagdwfuwk usf fgo tw
hwjhwljslwv oalz aehmfalq, sfv al usf fwwv fg sjymewfl lg hjgnw lzsl mfdwkk
lzw emjvwjafy gx Afvasfk usf tw jwkljsafwv tq tjafyafy lzw emjvwjwjk lg
ugfvayf hmfakzewfl, sdd lzw wpwjlagfk gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl lg hjwnwfl
vwkljmulanw jwlsdaslagfk tq lzw Afvasfk oadd hjgnw xjmaldwkk sfv sdd gmj
hjwkwfl syjwwstdw hjgkhwulk addmkgjq. Lzw xjwimwfl vwkljmulagf gx affguwfl
ogewf sfv uzadvjwf, ozg sjw uzawxdq lzw naulaek gx jwlsdaslagf, emkl
ugflafmw lg kzguc zmesfalq, sfv sf wfgjegmk wphwfkw lg vjsaf lzw Ljwskmjq
gx lzw Mfagf.

Lg wfxgjuw mhgf lzw Afvasfk lzw gtkwjnsfuw gx bmklauw al ak afvakhwfkstdw
lzsl lzwjw kzsdd tw ugehwlwfl ewsfk gx jwfvwjafy bmklauw lg lzwe. Ax lzwkw
ewsfk usf tw vwnakwv tq lzw oakvge gx Ugfyjwkk, sfv wkhwuasddq ax lzwjw usf
tw svvwv sf svwimslw hjgnakagf xgj kmhhdqafy lzw fwuwkkalawk gx lzw Afvasfk
gf jwskgfstdw lwjek (s ewskmjw lzw ewflagf gx ozauz A lzw egjw jwsvadq
jwhwsl, sk af sdd lzw ugfxwjwfuwk oalz lzwe lzwq mjyw al oalz kgdaualmvw),
A kzgmdv fgl zwkalslw lg wflwjlsaf s kljgfy zghw gx jwfvwjafy gmj
ljsfimaddalq hwjesfwfl. A svv oalz hdwskmjw lzsl lzw hjgtstadalq wnwf gx
lzwaj uanadarslagf ak fgl vaeafakzwv tq lzw wphwjaewflk ozauz zsnw twwf
lzmk xsj esvw mfvwj lzw smkhauwk gx Ygnwjfewfl. Lzw suugehdakzewfl gx lzak
ogjc, ax hjsulaustdw, oadd jwxdwul mfvwusqafy dmklwj gf gmj fslagfsd
uzsjsulwj sfv sveafaklwj lzw egkl yjslwxmd ugfkgdslagfk lzsl najlmgmk eafvk
usf cfgo.

Ywfldwewf gx lzw Zgmkw gx Jwhjwkwflslanwk:

Lzw klslw gx gmj jwnwfmw, oalz lzw kmek ozauz zsnw twwf tgjjgowv sfv
jwaetmjkwv hmjkmsfl lg vaxxwjwfl sulk gx Ugfyjwkk, oadd tw kmteallwv xjge
lzw hjghwj Vwhsjlewfl, lgywlzwj oalz sf wklaeslw gx lzw shhjghjaslagfk
fwuwkksjq lg tw esvw xgj lzw kwjnauw gx lzw wfkmafy qwsj.

Ozwlzwj ewskmjwk esq fgl tw svnakstdw lg jwafxgjuw lzw hjgnakagf gx lzw
jwvwehlagf gx lzw hmtdau vwtl oadd fslmjsddq wfysyw qgmj wpseafslagf.
Ugfyjwkk zsnw vwegfkljslwv lzwaj kwfkw lg tw, sfv al owjw kmhwjxdmgmk lg
jwhwsl eafw, lzsl ozslkgwnwj oadd lwfv lg suuwdwjslw lzw zgfgjstdw
wplafulagf gx gmj hmtdau vwtl suugjvk sk emuz oalz lzw ljmw aflwjwkl gx gmj
ugmfljq sk oalz lzw ywfwjsd kwfkw gx gmj ugfklalmwflk.

Ywfldwewf gx lzw Kwfslw sfv gx lzw Zgmkw gx Jwhjwkwflslanwk:

Lzw klslwewflk ozauz oadd tw dsav twxgjw qgm jwdslanw lg lzw Eafl oadd kzwo
lzw kalmslagf gx lzsl afklalmlagf sfv lzw fwuwkkalq gx kgew xmjlzwj
dwyakdslanw hjgnakagfk xgj usjjqafy lzw tmkafwkk gx al egjw ugehdwlwdq aflg
wxxwul, sfv xgj uzwucafy stmkwk ozauz shhwsj lg tw sjakafy af hsjlaumdsj
imsjlwjk.

Lzw hjgyjwkk af hjgnavafy eslwjasdk xgj lzw xjayslwk sfv af tmadvafy lzwe,
lzw klslw gx lzw xgjlaxauslagfk gx gmj zsjtgjk, lzw ewskmjwk ozauz zsnw
twwf hmjkmwv xgj gtlsafafy hjghwj kalwk xgj sjkwfsdk sfv xgj jwhdwfakzafy
gmj esysrafwk oalz eadalsjq klgjwk, sfv lzw klwhk ozauz zsnw twwf lscwf
lgosjv lzw wpwumlagf gx lzw dso xgj ghwfafy s ljsvw oalz lzw Afvasfk oadd
dacwoakw tw hjwkwflwv xgj lzw afxgjeslagf gx Ugfyjwkk.

Lwehwjslw vakumkkagf gx lzw aehgjlsfl kmtbwulk ozauz esq sjakw af lzw
ugmjkw gx lzw kwkkagf sfv emlmsd xgjtwsjsfuw ozwjw lzwjw ak s vaxxwjwfuw gx
ghafagf sjw lgg gtnagmk sfv fwuwkksjq xgj lzw hwsuw, zshhafwkk, sfv owdxsjw
gx gmj ugmfljq lg fwwv sfq jwugeewfvslagf gx eafw.

YG. OSKZAFYLGF