ZU ZNK YKTGZK GTJ NUAYK UL XKVXKYKTZGZOBKY:

O yotikxkre xkmxkz zngz O igttuz hk vxkyktz gz znk uvktotm ul znoy ykyyout
ul znk Iutmxkyy. O gs znay vxkbktzkj lxus vxkyktzotm ot gy joxkiz g cge gy
O iuarj coyn znk sgte wakyzouty zngz gxk vxkyyotm lux yurazout gz znoy
zosk. Ngvvore, O ngbk ngj znk gjbgtzgmk ul znk gjboik ul znk nkgjy ul znk
ykbkxgr kdkiazobk jkvgxzsktzy cnu ngbk qkvz ot iruyk zuain cozn gllgoxy ot
znkox jkzgor gtj cnuyk znuamnzlar xkiussktjgzouty O kgxtkyzre ykiutj.

Ot znk sgzzkx ul znk xgorxugjy gtj znk xkgjpayzsktz ul znkox gllgoxy
mxucotm uaz ul Lkjkxgr iutzxur, O yngrr zgqk znk rohkxze gz g rgzkx jgzk ul
gjjxkyyotm eua.

O nuvk zngz Iutmxkyy corr hxotm zu g iutirayout gz znoy ykyyout rkmoyrgzout
ruuqotm zu znk kyzghroynsktz ul g hajmkz yeyzks. Zngz znkxk ynuarj hk utk
yotmrk gaznuxoze xkyvutyohrk lux znk sgqotm ul grr gvvxuvxogzouty gtj zngz
gvvxuvxogzouty ynuarj hk sgjk tuz otjkvktjktzre ul kgin uznkx, haz cozn
xklkxktik zu utk yotmrk iusvxknktyobk vrgt ul kdvktjozaxk vxuvkxre xkrgzkj
zu znk tgzout'y otiusk, znkxk igt hk tu juahz O hkrokbk znk haxjkt ul
vxkvgxotm znk hajmkz sayz, ot znk tgzaxk ul znk igyk, ol znk cuxq oy zu hk
vxuvkxre jutk gtj xkyvutyohoroze iutiktzxgzkj otyzkgj ul jobojkj, xkyz avut
znk kdkiazobk. Znk hajmkz yu vxkvgxkj ynuarj hk yahsozzkj zu gtj gvvxubkj
ux gsktjkj he g yotmrk iussozzkk ul kgin Nuayk ul Iutmxkyy gtj tu yotmrk
gvvxuvxogzout ynuarj hk sgjk he znk Iutmxkyy, kdikvz yain gy sge ngbk hkkt
otirajkj ot znk hajmkz vxkvgxkj he znk kdkiazobk ux gjjkj he znk vgxzoiargx
iussozzkk ul Iutmxkyy ingxmkj cozn znk hajmkz rkmoyrgzout.

Gtuznkx gtj tuz rkyy osvuxzgtz gyvkiz ul znk vxuhrks oy znk gyikxzgotsktz
ul znk kiutuse gtj klloioktie cozn cnoin znk sutkey gvvxuvxogzkj gxk
kdvktjkj. Atjkx kdoyzotm rgc znk utre gajoz oy lux znk vaxvuyk ul
gyikxzgototm cnkznkx kdvktjozaxky ngbk hkkt rgclarre sgjk coznot znk
gvvxuvxogzouty. Tu utk oy gaznuxofkj ux kwaovvkj zu gyikxzgot cnkznkx znk
sutke ngy hkkt yvktz coykre, kiutusoigrre gtj kllkizobkre. Znk gajozuxy
ynuarj hk nomnre zxgotkj ulloiogry cozn vkxsgtktz zktaxk ot znk Zxkgyaxe
Jkvgxzsktz, lxkk ul uhromgzouty zu ux suzobky ul iutyojkxgzout lux znoy ux
gte yahykwaktz gjsotoyzxgzout, gtj gaznuxofkj gtj ksvuckxkj zu kdgsotk otzu
gtj sgqk xkvuxz avut znk skznujy ksvruekj gtj znk xkyarzy uhzgotkj he znk
kdkiazobk jkvgxzsktzy ul znk Mubkxtsktz. Znkox xkvuxzy ynuarj hk sgjk zu
znk Iutmxkyy gtj zu znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe.

O zxayz zngz znk Iutmxkyy corr mobk ozy osskjogzk iutyojkxgzout zu znk
vxuhrks ul lazaxk zgdgzout. Yosvroloigzout ul znk otiusk gtj vxulozy zgdky
ngy hkiusk gt osskjogzk tkikyyoze. Znkyk zgdky vkxluxskj otjoyvktyghrk
ykxboik jaxotm znk cgx. Znke sayz, nuckbkx, hk yosvrolokj, tuz utre zu ygbk
znk zgdvgekx otiutbktoktik gtj kdvktyk, haz ot uxjkx zngz noy roghoroze sge
hk sgjk ikxzgot gtj jklotozk.

Cozn xklkxktik zu znk jkzgory ul znk Xkbktak Rgc, znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk
Zxkgyaxe gtj znk Iussoyyoutkx ul Otzkxtgr Xkbktak corr rge hkluxk eua lux
euax iutyojkxgzout ikxzgot gsktjsktzy tkikyygxe ux jkyoxghrk ot iuttkizout
cozn znk gjsotoyzxgzout ul znk rgc-xkiussktjgzouty cnoin ngbk se gvvxubgr
gtj yavvuxz. Oz oy ul znk azsuyz osvuxzgtik zngz ot jkgrotm cozn znoy
sgzzkx znk vxkyktz rgc ynuarj tuz hk joyzaxhkj yu lgx gy xkmgxjy zgdky lux
znk igrktjgx ekgx 1920 vgeghrk ot znk igrktjgx ekgx 1921. Znk Iutmxkyy
somnz ckrr iutyojkx cnkznkx znk nomnkx xgzky ul otiusk gtj vxulozy zgdky
igt ot vkgik zosky hk kllkizobkre vxujaizobk ul xkbktak, gtj cnkznkx znke
sge tuz, ut znk iutzxgxe, hk jkyzxaizobk ul hayotkyy gizoboze gtj
vxujaizobk ul cgyzk gtj otklloioktie. Znkxk oy g vuotz gz cnoin ot vkgik
zosky nomn xgzky ul otiusk gtj vxulozy zgdky joyiuaxgmk ktkxme, xksubk znk
otiktzobk zu tkc ktzkxvxoyky, ktiuaxgmk kdzxgbgmgtz kdvktjozaxky gtj
vxujaik otjayzxogr yzgmtgzout cozn iutykwaktz atksvruesktz gtj uznkx
gzzktjgtz kbory.

Znk vxuhrks oy tuz gt kgye utk. G latjgsktzgr ingtmk ngy zgqkt vrgik cozn
xklkxktik zu znk vuyozout ul Gskxoig ot znk cuxrj'y gllgoxy. Znk vxkpajoik
gtj vgyyouty ktmktjkxkj he jkigjky ul iutzxubkxye hkzckkt zcu yinuury ul
vurozoigr gtj kiutusoi znuamnz,-znk utk hkrokbkxy ot vxuzkizout ul Gskxoigt
otjayzxoky, znk uznkx hkrokbkxy ot zgxoll lux xkbktak utre,-sayz hk
yahuxjotgzkj zu znk yotmrk iutyojkxgzout ul znk vahroi otzkxkyz ot znk romnz
ul azzkxre ingtmkj iutjozouty. Hkluxk znk cgx Gskxoig cgy nkgbore znk
jkhzux ul znk xkyz ul znk cuxrj gtj znk otzkxkyz vgesktzy ynk ngj zu sgqk
zu luxkomt iuatzxoky ut Gskxoigt ykiaxozoky nkrj ghxugj, znk kdvktjozaxky
ul Gskxoigt zxgbkrkxy ghxugj gtj znk uikgt lxkomnz ingxmky ynk ngj zu vge
zu uznkxy, ghuaz hgrgtikj znk bgrak ul nkx vxk-cgx lgbuxghrk hgrgtik ul
zxgjk. Jaxotm znk cgx Gskxoig'y kdvuxzy ngbk hkkt mxkgzre yzosargzkj, gtj
otixkgykj vxoiky ngbk otixkgykj znkox bgrak. Ut znk uznkx ngtj, ynk ngy
vaxingykj g rgxmk vxuvuxzout ul znk Gskxoigt ykiaxozoky vxkbouayre nkrj
ghxugj, ngy rugtkj yusk $9,000,000,000 zu luxkomt mubkxtsktzy, gtj ngy
haorz nkx uct ynovy. Uax lgbuxghrk hgrgtik ul zxgjk ngy znay hkkt mxkgzre
otixkgykj gtj Kaxuvk ngy hkkt jkvxobkj ul znk skgty ul skkzotm oz
nkxkzuluxk kdoyzotm. Kaxuvk igt ngbk utre znxkk cgey ul skkzotm znk
lgbuxghrk hgrgtik ul zxgjk ot vkgik zosky: he osvuxzy otzu znoy iuatzxe ul
murj ux ul muujy, ux he kyzghroynotm tkc ixkjozy. Kaxuvk oy ot tu vuyozout
gz znk vxkyktz zosk zu ynov murj zu ay tux iuarj ck iutzksvrgzk rgxmk
laxznkx osvuxzy ul murj otzu znoy iuatzxe coznuaz iutikxt. Znk zosk ngy
tkgxre vgyykj lux otzkxtgzoutgr mubkxtsktzgr rugty gtj oz corr zgqk zosk zu
jkbkruv ot znoy iuatzxe g sgxqkz lux luxkomt ykiaxozoky. Gteznotm,
znkxkluxk, cnoin cuarj zktj zu vxkbktz luxkomt iuatzxoky lxus ykzzrotm lux
uax kdvuxzy he ynovsktzy ul muujy otzu znoy iuatzxe iuarj utre ngbk znk
kllkiz ul vxkbktzotm znks lxus vgeotm lux uax kdvuxzy gtj znkxkluxk ul
vxkbktzotm znk kdvuxzy lxus hkotm sgjk. Znk vxujaizoboze ul znk iuatzxe,
mxkgzre yzosargzkj he znk cgx, sayz lotj gt uazrkz he kdvuxzy zu luxkomt
iuatzxoky, gtj gte skgyaxky zgqkt zu vxkbktz osvuxzy corr otkbozghre
iaxzgor kdvuxzy, luxik iaxzgorsktz ul vxujaizout, rugj znk hgtqotm
sginotkxe ul znk iuatzxe cozn ixkjozy zu igxxe atyurj vxujaizy gtj vxujaik
otjayzxogr yzgmtgzout gtj atksvruesktz. Ol ck cgtz zu ykrr, ck sayz hk
vxkvgxkj zu hae. Cngzkbkx, znkxkluxk, sge ngbk hkkt uax bokcy jaxotm znk
vkxouj ul mxuczn ul Gskxoigt hayotkyy iutikxtotm zgxoll rkmoyrgzout, ck
sayz tuc gjpayz uax uct kiutusoi rolk zu g ingtmkj iutjozout mxucotm uaz ul
znk lgiz zngz Gskxoigt hayotkyy oy larr mxuct gtj zngz Gskxoig oy znk
mxkgzkyz igvozgroyz ot znk cuxrj.

Tu vuroie ul oyurgzout corr ygzoyle znk mxucotm tkkjy gtj uvvuxzatozoky ul
Gskxoig. Znk vxubotiogr yzgtjgxjy gtj vuroioky ul znk vgyz, cnoin ngbk nkrj
Gskxoigt hayotkyy gy ol ot g yzxgoz-pgiqkz, sayz eokrj gtj mobk cge zu znk
tkkjy gtj kdomktioky ul znk tkc jge ot cnoin ck robk, g jge larr ul nuvk
gtj vxusoyk lux Gskxoigt hayotkyy, ol ck corr haz zgqk gjbgtzgmk ul znk
uvvuxzatozoky zngz gxk uaxy lux znk gyqotm. Znk xkiktz cgx ngy ktjkj uax
oyurgzout gtj znxuct avut ay g mxkgz jaze gtj xkyvutyohoroze. Znk Atozkj
Yzgzky sayz yngxk znk kdvgtjotm cuxrj sgxqkz. Znk Atozkj Yzgzky jkyoxky lux
ozykrl utre kwagr uvvuxzatoze cozn znk uznkx tgzouty ul znk cuxrj, gtj zngz
znxuamn znk vxuikyy ul lxoktjre iuuvkxgzout gtj lgox iusvkzozout znk
rkmozosgzk otzkxkyzy ul znk tgzouty iutikxtkj sge hk yaiikyylarre gtj
kwaozghre gjpayzkj.

Znkxk gxk uznkx sgzzkxy ul osvuxzgtik avut cnoin O axmkj gizout gz znk rgyz
ykyyout ul Iutmxkyy cnoin gxk yzorr vxkyyotm lux yurazout. O gs yaxk oz oy
tuz tkikyygxe lux sk gmgot zu xksotj eua zngz znkxk oy utk osskjogzk gtj
bkxe vxgizoighrk wakyzout xkyarzotm lxus znk cgx cnoin ck ynuarj skkz ot
znk suyz rohkxgr yvoxoz. Oz oy g sgzzkx ul xkiumtozout gtj xkrokl zu uax
yurjokxy. O igt ju tu hkzzkx zngt zu wauzk lxus se rgyz skyygmk axmotm znoy
bkxe gizout:

"Ck sayz ykk zu oz zngz uax xkzaxtotm yurjokxy gxk gyyoyzkj ot kbkxe
vxgizoighrk cge zu lotj znk vrgiky lux cnoin znke gxk lozzkj ot znk jgore
cuxq ul znk iuatzxe. Znoy igt hk jutk he jkbkruvotm gtj sgotzgototm avut gt
gjkwagzk yigrk znk gjsoxghrk uxmgtofgzout ixkgzkj he znk Jkvgxzsktz ul
Rghux lux vrgiotm skt ykkqotm cuxq; gtj oz igt gryu hk jutk, ot gz rkgyz
utk bkxe mxkgz lokrj, he ixkgzotm tkc uvvuxzatozoky lux otjobojagr
ktzkxvxoyk. Znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Otzkxoux ngy vuotzkj uaz znk cge he cnoin
xkzaxtotm yurjokxy sge hk nkrvkj zu lotj gtj zgqk av rgtj ot znk noznkxzu
atjkbkruvkj xkmouty ul znk iuatzxe cnoin znk Lkjkxgr Mubkxtsktz ngy grxkgje
vxkvgxkj, ux igt xkgjore vxkvgxk, lux iarzobgzout gtj gryu ut sgte ul znk
iazubkx ux tkmrkizkj gxkgy cnoin rok coznot znk rosozy ul znk urjkx yzgzky;
gtj O utik suxk zgqk znk rohkxze ul xkiussktjotm bkxe axmktzre zngz noy
vrgty yngrr xkikobk znk osskjogzk gtj yahyzgtzogr yavvuxz ul znk
Iutmxkyy."

Ot znk sgzzkx ul zgxoll rkmoyrgzout, O hkm zu igrr euax gzzktzout zu znk
yzgzksktzy iutzgotkj ot se rgyz skyygmk axmotm rkmoyrgzout cozn xklkxktik
zu znk kyzghroynsktz ul znk inksoigr gtj jekyzally otjayzxe ot Gskxoig:

"Gsutm znk otjayzxoky zu cnoin yvkiogr iutyojkxgzout ynuarj hk mobkt oy
zngz ul znk sgtalgizaxk ul jekyzally gtj xkrgzkj inksoigry. Uax iusvrkzk
jkvktjktik avut Mkxsgt yavvroky hkluxk znk cgx sgjk znk otzkxxavzout ul
zxgjk g igayk ul kdikvzoutgr kiutusoi joyzaxhgtik. Znk iruyk xkrgzout
hkzckkt znk sgtalgizaxk ul jekyzally, ut znk utk ngtj, gtj ul kdvruyobk gtj
vuoyutuay mgyky, ut znk uznkx, suxkubkx, ngy mobkt znk otjayzxe gt
kdikvzoutgr yomtoloigtik gtj bgrak. Grznuamn znk Atozkj Yzgzky corr mrgjre
gtj atnkyozgzotmre puot ot znk vxumxgssk ul otzkxtgzoutgr joygxsgsktz, oz
corr, tkbkxznkrkyy, hk g vuroie ul uhbouay vxajktik zu sgqk ikxzgot ul znk
yaiikyylar sgotzktgtik ul sgte yzxutm gtj ckrr-kwaovvkj inksoigr vrgtzy.
Znk Mkxsgt inksoigr otjayzxe, cozn cnoin ck corr hk hxuamnz otzu
iusvkzozout, cgy gtj sge ckrr hk gmgot, g znuxuamnre qtoz sutuvure igvghrk
ul kdkxioyotm g iusvkzozout ul g vkiarogxre otyojouay gtj jgtmkxuay qotj."

Jaxotm znk cgx znk lgxskx vkxluxskj g bozgr gtj corrotm ykxboik zu znk
tgzout. He sgzkxogrre otixkgyotm znk vxujaizout ul noy rgtj, nk yavvrokj
Gskxoig gtj znk Grroky cozn znk otixkgykj gsuatzy ul luuj tkikyygxe zu qkkv
znkox ossktyk gxsoky ot znk lokrj. Nk otjoyvktyghre nkrvkj zu cot znk cgx.
Haz znkxk oy tuc yigxikre rkyy tkkj ul otixkgyotm znk vxujaizout ot luuj
-gtj znk tkikyygxoky ul rolk. O gyq znk Iutmxkyy zu iutyojkx skgty ul
ktiuaxgmotm klluxz grutm znkyk rotky. Znk osvuxzgtik ul juotm kbkxeznotm
vuyyohrk zu vxusuzk vxujaizout grutm kiutusoigr rotky, zu osvxubk
sgxqkzotm, gtj zu sgqk xaxgr rolk suxk gzzxgizobk gtj nkgrznlar, oy
uhbouay. O cuarj axmk gvvxubgr ul znk vrgty grxkgje vxuvuykj zu znk
Iutmxkyy he znk Ykixkzgxe ul Gmxoiarzaxk, zu ykiaxk znk kyyktzogr lgizy
xkwaoxkj lux znk vxuvkx yzaje ul znoy wakyzout, znxuamn znk vxuvuykj
ktrgxmkj vxumxgssky lux lgxs sgtgmksktz yzajoky gtj ixuv kyzosgzky. O cuarj
axmk, gryu, znk iutzotagtik ul Lkjkxgr vgxzoiovgzout ot znk haorjotm ul
muuj xugjy, atjkx znk zkxsy ul kdoyzotm rgc gtj atjkx znk joxkizout ul
vxkyktz gmktioky; znk tkkj ul laxznkx gizout ut znk vgxz ul znk Yzgzky gtj
znk Lkjkxgr Mubkxtsktz zu vxkykxbk gtj jkbkruv uax luxkyz xkyuaxiky,
kyvkiogrre znxuamn znk vxgizoik ul hkzzkx luxkyzxe skznujy ut vxobgzk
nurjotmy gtj znk kdzktyout ul znk vahroire uctkj luxkyzy; hkzzkx yavvuxz
lux iuatzxe yinuury gtj znk suxk jklotozk joxkizout ul znkox iuaxyky ul
yzaje grutm rotky xkrgzkj zu xaxgr vxuhrksy; gtj larrkx vxuboyout lux
ygtozgzout ot xaxgr joyzxoizy gtj znk haorjotm av ul tkkjkj nuyvozgr gtj
skjoigr lgiorozoky ot znkyk ruigrozoky. Vkxngvy znk cge somnz hk irkgxkj
lux sgte ul znkyk jkyoxghrk xkluxsy he g lxkyn, iusvxknktyobk yaxbke sgjk
ul xaxgr iutjozouty he g iutlkxktik iusvuykj ul xkvxkyktzgzobky ul znk
lgxskxy gtj ul znk gmxoiarzaxgr gmktioky xkyvutyohrk lux rkgjkxynov.

O cuarj igrr euax gzzktzout zu znk cojkyvxkgj iutjozout ul vurozoigr
xkyzrkyytkyy ot uax huje vurozoi. Znk igayky ul znoy atxkyz, cnork bgxouay
gtj iusvroigzkj, gxk yavkxloiogr xgznkx zngt jkkv-ykgzkj. Hxugjre, znke
gxoyk lxus ux gxk iuttkizkj cozn znk lgoraxk ut znk vgxz ul uax Mubkxtsktz
zu gxxobk yvkkjore gz g payz gtj vkxsgtktz vkgik vkxsozzotm xkzaxt zu
tuxsgr iutjozouty, lxus znk zxgtylayout ul xgjoigr znkuxoky lxus ykkznotm
Kaxuvkgt iktzkxy vktjotm yain jkrge, lxus nkgxzrkyy vxulozkkxotm xkyarzotm
ot znk otixkgyk ul znk iuyz ul robotm, gtj rgyzre lxus znk sginotgzouty ul
vgyyoutgzk gtj sgrkburktz gmozgzuxy. Cozn znk xkzaxt zu tuxsgr iutjozouty,
znoy atxkyz corr xgvojre joygvvkgx. Ot znk skgtzosk, oz juky sain kbor. Oz
ykksy zu sk zngz ot jkgrotm cozn znoy yozagzout Iutmxkyy ynuarj tuz hk
osvgzoktz ux jxgyzoi haz ynuarj ykkq xgznkx zu xksubk znk igayky. Oz ynuarj
ktjkgbux zu hxotm uax iuatzxe hgiq yvkkjore zu g vkgik hgyoy, cozn
gskrouxgzkj robotm iutjozouty atjkx znk sotosas ul xkyzxoizouty avut
vkxyutgr rohkxze zngz oy iutyoyzktz cozn uax xkiutyzxaizout vxuhrksy. Gtj
oz ynuarj gxs znk Lkjkxgr Mubkxtsktz cozn vuckx zu jkgr ot ozy ixosotgr
iuaxzy cozn znuyk vkxyuty cnu he bourktz skznujy cuarj ghxumgzk uax
zosk-zkyzkj otyzozazouty. Cozn znk lxkk kdvxkyyout ul uvotout gtj cozn znk
gjbuigie ul uxjkxre vurozoigr ingtmk, nuckbkx latjgsktzgr, znkxk sayz hk tu
otzkxlkxktik, haz zucgxjy vgyyout gtj sgrkburktik zktjotm zu otiozk ixosk
gtj otyaxxkizout atjkx maoyk ul vurozoigr kburazout znkxk ynuarj hk tu
rktoktie. Rkmoyrgzout zu znoy ktj ngy hkkt xkiussktjkj he znk Gzzuxtke
Mktkxgr gtj ynuarj hk ktgizkj. Ot znoy joxkiz iuttkizout, O cuarj igrr euax
gzzktzout zu se xkiussktjgzouty ut Gamayz 8zn, vuotzotm uaz rkmoyrgzobk
skgyaxky cnoin cuarj hk kllkizobk ot iutzxurrotm gtj hxotmotm juct znk
vxkyktz iuyz ul robotm, cnoin iutzxohazky yu rgxmkre zu znoy atxkyz. Ut
utre utk ul znkyk xkiussktjgzouty ngy znk Iutmxkyy gizkj. Ol znk
Mubkxtsktz'y igsvgomt oy zu hk kllkizobk, oz oy tkikyygxe zngz znk uznkx
yzkvy yammkyzkj ynuarj hk gizkj ut gz utik.

O xktkc gtj yzxutmre axmk znk tkikyyoze ul znk kdzktyout ul znk vxkyktz
Luuj Iutzxur Giz gy zu znk vkxouj ul zosk ot cnoin oz yngrr xksgot ot
uvkxgzout. Znk Gzzuxtke Mktkxgr ngy yahsozzkj g horr vxubojotm lux gt
kdzktyout ul znoy Giz lux g vkxouj ul yod sutzny. Gy oz tuc yzgtjy, oz oy
rosozkj ot uvkxgzout zu znk vkxouj ul znk cgx gtj hkiusky otuvkxgzobk avut
znk luxsgr vxuirgsgzout ul vkgik. Oz oy osvkxgzobk zngz oz ynuarj hk
kdzktjkj gz utik. Znk Jkvgxzsktz ul payzoik ngy haorz av kdzktyobk
sginotkxe lux znk vaxvuyk ul ktluxiotm ozy vxuboyouty; grr ul cnoin sayz hk
ghgtjutkj avut znk iutirayout ul vkgik atrkyy znk vxuboyouty ul znoy Giz
gxk kdzktjkj.

Jaxotm znoy vkxouj znk Iutmxkyy corr ngbk gt uvvuxzatoze zu sgqk yosorgx
vkxsgtktz vxuboyouty gtj xkmargzouty cozn xkmgxj zu grr muujy jkyzotkj lux
otzkxyzgzk iusskxik gtj zu kdirajk znks lxus otzkxyzgzk ynovsktz, ol znk
xkwaoxksktzy ul znk rgc gxk tuz iusvorkj cozn. Yusk yain xkmargzout oy
osvkxgzobkre tkikyygxe. Znk ghayky zngz ngbk mxuct av ot znk sgtovargzout
ul vxoiky he znk coznnurjotm ul luujyzally gtj uznkx tkikyygxoky ul rolk
igttuz uznkxcoyk hk kllkizobkre vxkbktzkj. Znkxk igt hk tu juahz ul koznkx
znk tkikyyoze ul znk rkmozosgie ul yain skgyaxky.

Gy O vuotzkj uaz ot se rgyz skyygmk, vahroioze igt giiusvroyn g mxkgz jkgr
ot znoy igsvgomt. Znk gosy ul znk Mubkxtsktz sayz hk irkgxre hxuamnz zu znk
gzzktzout ul znk iutyasotm vahroi, ioboi uxmgtofgzouty gtj yzgzk ulloiogry,
cnu gxk ot g vuyozout zu rktj znkox gyyoyzgtik zu uax klluxzy. Eua ngbk
sgjk gbgorghrk latjy cozn cnoin zu igxxe ut znoy igsvgomt, haz znkxk oy tu
vxuboyout ot znk rgc gaznuxofotm znkox kdvktjozaxk lux znk vaxvuyk ul
sgqotm znk vahroi larre otluxskj ghuaz znk klluxzy ul znk Mubkxtsktz.
Yvkioloi xkiussktjgzout ngy hkkt sgjk he znk Gzzuxtke Mktkxgr ot znoy
xkmgxj. O cuarj yzxutmre axmk avut eua ozy osskjogzk gjuvzout, gy oz
iutyzozazky utk ul znk vxkrosotgxe yzkvy zu znoy igsvgomt.

O gryu xktkc se xkiussktjgzout zngz znk Iutmxkyy vgyy g rgc xkmargzotm iurj
yzuxgmk gy oz oy xkmargzkj, lux kdgsvrk, he znk rgcy ul znk Yzgzk ul Tkc
Pkxyke, cnoin rosoz znk zosk jaxotm cnoin muujy sge hk qkvz ot yzuxgmk,
vxkyixohk znk skznuj ul joyvuyotm ul znks ol qkvz hkeutj znk vkxsozzkj
vkxouj, gtj xkwaoxk zngz muujy xkrkgykj lxus yzuxgmk yngrr ot grr igyky
hkgx znk jgzk ul znkox xkikovz. Oz cuarj sgzkxogrre gjj zu znk
ykxboikghoroze ul znk rgc, lux znk vaxvuyk ck tuc ngbk ot bokc, ol oz ckxk
gryu vxkyixohkj zngz grr muujy xkrkgykj lxus yzuxgmk lux otzkxyzgzk
ynovsktz ynuarj ngbk vrgotre sgxqkj avut kgin vgiqgmk znk ykrrotm ux sgxqkz
vxoik gz cnoin znke cktz otzu yzuxgmk. He znoy skgty znk vaxingykx cuarj
grcgey hk ghrk zu rkgxt cngz vxulozy yzuuj hkzckkt nos gtj znk vxujaikx ux
znk cnurkygrk jkgrkx.

O cuarj gryu xktkc se xkiussktjgzout zngz grr muujy jkyzotkj lux otzkxyzgzk
iusskxik ynuarj ot kbkxe igyk, cnkxk znkox luxs ux vgiqgmk sgqky oz
vuyyohrk, hk vrgotre sgxqkj cozn znk vxoik gz cnoin znke rklz znk ngtjy ul
znk vxujaikx.

Ck ynuarj luxsargzk g rgc xkwaoxotm g Lkjkxgr roiktyk ul grr iuxvuxgzouty
ktmgmkj ot otzkxyzgzk iusskxik gtj kshujeotm ot znk roiktyk ux ot znk
iutjozouty atjkx cnoin oz oy zu hk oyyakj, yvkioloi xkmargzouty jkyomtkj zu
ykiaxk iusvkzozobk ykrrotm gtj vxkbktz atiutyioutghrk vxulozy ot znk skznuj
ul sgxqkzotm. Yain g rgc cuarj glluxj g ckriusk uvvuxzatoze zu kllkiz uznkx
sain tkkjkj xkluxsy ot znk hayotkyy ul otzkxyzgzk ynovsktz gtj ot znk
skznujy ul iuxvuxgzouty cnoin gxk ktmgmkj ot oz; haz lux znk susktz O
iutlotk se xkiussktjgzouty zu znk uhpkiz osskjogzkre ot ngtj, cnoin oy zu
ruckx znk iuyz ul robotm.

Tu utk cnu ngy uhykxbkj znk sgxin ul kbktzy ot znk rgyz ekgx igt lgor zu
tuzk znk ghyurazk tkkj ul g jklotozk vxumxgssk zu hxotm ghuaz gt
osvxubksktz ot znk iutjozouty ul rghux. Znkxk igt hk tu ykzzrkj iutjozouty
rkgjotm zu otixkgykj vxujaizout gtj g xkjaizout ot znk iuyz ul robotm ol
rghux gtj igvozgr gxk zu hk gtzgmutoyzy otyzkgj ul vgxztkxy. Yuatj znotqotm
gtj gt nutkyz jkyoxk zu ykxbk znk otzkxkyzy ul znk cnurk tgzout, gy
joyzotmaoynkj lxus znk otzkxkyzy ul g irgyy, sayz hk gvvrokj zu znk
yurazout ul znoy mxkgz gtj vxkyyotm vxuhrks. Znk lgoraxk ul uznkx tgzouty
zu iutyojkx znoy sgzzkx ot g bomuxuay cge ngy vxujaikj hozzkxtkyy gtj
pkgruayoky gtj gtzgmutoysy, znk luuj ul xgjoigroys. Znk utre cge zu qkkv
skt lxus gmozgzotm gmgotyz mxokbgtiky oy zu xksubk znk mxokbgtiky. Gt
atcorrotmtkyy kbkt zu joyiayy znkyk sgzzkxy vxujaiky utre joyygzoylgizout
gtj mobky iusluxz zu znk kdzxksk krksktzy ot uax iuatzxe cnoin ktjkgbux zu
yzox av joyzaxhgtiky ot uxjkx zu vxubuqk mubkxtsktzy zu kshgxq avut g
iuaxyk ul xkzgrogzout gtj xkvxkyyout. Znk ykkj ul xkburazout oy xkvxkyyout.
Znk xkskje lux znkyk znotmy sayz tuz hk tkmgzobk ot ingxgizkx. Oz sayz hk
iutyzxaizobk. Oz sayz iusvxknktj znk mktkxgr otzkxkyz. Znk xkgr gtzojuzk
lux znk atxkyz cnoin sgtolkyzy ozykrl oy tuz yavvxkyyout, haz g jkkv
iutyojkxgzout ul znk cxutmy zngz hkykz uax tgzoutgr rolk gtj znk
gvvroigzout ul g xkskje.

Iutmxkyy ngy grxkgje ynuct ozy corrotmtkyy zu jkgr cozn znkyk otjayzxogr
cxutmy he kyzghroynotm znk komnz-nuax jge gy znk yzgtjgxj ot kbkxe lokrj ul
rghux. Oz ngy yuamnz zu lotj g cge zu vxkbktz inorj rghux. Oz ngy ykxbkj
znk cnurk iuatzxe he rkgjotm znk cge ot jkbkruvotm znk skgty ul vxkykxbotm
gtj yglkmagxjotm robky gtj nkgrzn ot jgtmkxuay otjayzxoky. Oz sayz tuc nkrv
ot znk jolloiarz zgyq ul lotjotm g skznuj zngz corr hxotm ghuaz g mktaotk
jksuixgzofgzout ul otjayzxe, hgykj avut znk larr xkiumtozout ul znk xomnz
ul znuyk cnu cuxq, ot cngzkbkx xgtq, zu vgxzoiovgzk ot yusk uxmgtoi cge ot
kbkxe jkioyout cnoin joxkizre gllkizy znkox ckrlgxk. Oz oy cozn znoy
vaxvuyk ot sotj zngz O igrrkj g iutlkxktik zu skkz ot Cgynotmzut ut
Jkikshkx 1yz, zu iutyojkx znkyk vxuhrksy ot grr znkox hxugj gyvkizy, cozn
znk ojkg ul hxotmotm ghuaz g hkzzkx atjkxyzgtjotm hkzckkt znkyk zcu
otzkxkyzy.

Znk mxkgz atxkyz znxuamnuaz znk cuxrj, uaz ul cnoin ngy kskxmkj g jksgtj
lux gt osskjogzk iutyojkxgzout ul znk jolloiarzoky hkzckkt igvozgr gtj
rghux, hojy ay vaz uax uct nuayk ot uxjkx. Lxgtqre, znkxk igt hk tu
vkxsgtktz gtj rgyzotm ykzzrksktzy hkzckkt igvozgr gtj rghux cnoin ju tuz
xkiumtofk znk latjgsktzgr iutikvzy lux cnoin rghux ngy hkkt yzxammrotm
znxuamn znk ekgxy. Znk cnurk cuxrj mgbk ozy xkiumtozout gtj ktjuxyksktz zu
znkyk latjgsktzgr vaxvuyky ot znk Rkgmak ul Tuzouty. Znk yzgzkyskt mgznkxkj
gz Bkxygorrky xkiumtofkj znk lgiz zngz cuxrj yzghoroze iuarj tuz hk ngj he
xkbkxzotm zu otjayzxogr yzgtjgxjy gtj iutjozouty gmgotyz cnoin znk gbkxgmk
cuxqsgt ul znk cuxrj ngj xkburzkj. Oz oy, znkxkluxk, znk zgyq ul znk yzgzky
skt ul znoy tkc jge ul ingtmk gtj xkgjpayzsktz zu xkiumtofk cuxrj
iutjozouty gtj zu ykkq zu hxotm ghuaz, znxuamn rkmoyrgzout, iutjozouty zngz
corr skgt znk ktjotm ul gmk-rutm gtzgmutoysy hkzckkt igvozgr gtj rghux gtj
zngz corr nuvklarre rkgj zu znk haorjotm av ul g iusxgjkynov cnoin corr
xkyarz tuz utre ot mxkgzkx iutzktzsktz gsutm znk sgyy ul cuxqskt haz gryu
hxotm ghuaz g mxkgzkx vxujaizout gtj g mxkgzkx vxuyvkxoze zu hayotkyy
ozykrl.

Zu gtgrefk znk vgxzoiargxy ot znk jksgtjy ul rghux oy zu gjsoz znk payzoik
ul znkox iusvrgotz ot sgte sgzzkxy zngz rok gz znkox hgyoy. Znk cuxqsgt
jksgtjy gt gjkwagzk cgmk, yalloioktz zu vkxsoz nos zu robk ot iusluxz,
atngsvkxkj he znk lkgx ul vubkxze gtj cgtz ot noy urj gmk. Nk jksgtjy znk
xomnz zu robk gtj znk xomnz zu cuxq gsojyz ygtozgxe yaxxuatjotmy, huzn ot
nusk gtj ot cuxqynuv, yaxxuatjotmy zngz jkbkruv gtj ju tuz xkzgxj noy uct
nkgrzn gtj ckrrhkotm; gtj znk xomnz zu vxubojk lux noy inorjxkt'y cgtzy ot
znk sgzzkx ul nkgrzn gtj kjaigzout. Ot uznkx cuxjy, oz oy noy jkyoxk zu
sgqk znk iutjozouty ul noy rolk gtj znk robky ul znuyk jkgx zu nos
zurkxghrk gtj kgye zu hkgx.

Znk kyzghroynsktz ul znk vxotiovrky xkmgxjotm rghux rgoj juct orr znk
iubktgtz ul znk Rkgmak ul Tgzouty ullkxy ay znk cge zu otjayzxogr vkgik gtj
iutiorogzout. Tu uznkx xugj roky uvkt zu ay. Tuz zu vaxyak znoy utk oy
rutmkx zu otbozk ktsozoky, hozzkxtkyy, gtj gtzgmutoysy cnoin ot znk ktj
utre rkgj zu otjayzxogr gtj yuiogr joygyzkx. Znk atcorrotm cuxqsgt oy tuz g
vxulozghrk ykxbgtz. Gt ksvruekk cnuyk otjayzxogr rolk oy nkjmkj ghuaz he
ngxj gtj atpayz iutjozouty, cnoin nk joj tuz ixkgzk gtj ubkx cnoin nk ngy
tu iutzxur, rgiqy zngz lotk yvoxoz ul ktznayogys gtj buratzkkx klluxz cnoin
gxk znk tkikyygxe otmxkjoktzy ul g mxkgz vxujaiotm ktzoze. Rkz ay hk lxgtq
ghuaz znoy yurkst sgzzkx. Znk kbojktiky ul cuxrj-cojk atxkyz cnoin sgtolkyz
znksykrbky ot bourktik znxuamnuaz znk cuxrj hoj ay vgayk gtj iutyojkx znk
skgty zu hk luatj zu yzuv znk yvxkgj ul znoy iutzgmouay znotm hkluxk oz
ygvy znk bkxe bozgroze ul znk tgzout ozykrl. Ju ck mgot yzxktmzn he
coznnurjotm znk xkskje? Ux oy oz tuz znk hayotkyy ul yzgzkyskt zu zxkgz
znkyk sgtolkyzgzouty ul atxkyz cnoin skkz ay ut kbkxe ngtj gy kbojktiky ul
gt kiutusoi joyuxjkx gtj zu gvvre iutyzxaizobk xkskjoky cnkxkbkx tkikyygxe,
hkotm yaxk zngz ot znk gvvroigzout ul znk xkskje ck zuain tuz znk bozgr
zoyyaky ul uax otjayzxogr gtj kiutusoi rolk? Znkxk igt hk tu xkikyyout ul
znk zojk ul atxkyz atzor iutyzxaizobk otyzxasktzgrozoky gxk ykz av zu yzks
zngz zojk.

Mubkxtsktzy sayz xkiumtofk znk xomnz ul skt iurrkizobkre zu hgxmgot lux
nasgtk uhpkizy zngz ngbk gz znkox hgyk znk sazagr vxuzkizout gtj ckrlgxk ul
znuyk ktmgmkj ot grr otjayzxoky. Rghux sayz tuz hk rutmkx zxkgzkj gy g
iussujoze. Oz sayz hk xkmgxjkj gy znk gizoboze ul nasgt hkotmy, vuyykyykj
ul jkkv ekgxtotmy gtj jkyoxky. Znk hayotkyy sgt mobky noy hkyz znuamnz zu
znk xkvgox gtj xkvrktoynsktz ul noy sginotkxe, yu zngz ozy ayklartkyy corr
tuz hk osvgoxkj gtj ozy vuckx zu vxujaik sge grcgey hk gz ozy nkomnz gtj
qkvz ot larr bomux gtj suzout. Tu rkyy xkmgxj uamnz zu hk vgoj zu znk nasgt
sginotk, cnoin glzkx grr vxuvkry znk sginotkxe ul znk cuxrj gtj oy znk
mxkgz jetgsoi luxik zngz roky hgiq ul grr otjayzxe gtj vxumxkyy. Xkzaxt zu
znk urj yzgtjgxjy ul cgmk gtj otjayzxe ot ksvruesktz gxk atznotqghrk. Znk
zkxxohrk zxgmkje ul cgx cnoin ngy payz ktjkj gtj cnoin ngy hxuamnz znk
cuxrj zu znk bkxmk ul inguy gtj joygyzkx cuarj hk ot bgot ol znkxk ynuarj
ktyak g xkzaxt zu znk iutjozouty ul znk vgyz. Kaxuvk ozykrl, cnktik ngy
iusk znk atxkyz cnoin tuc nurjy znk cuxrj gz hge, oy gt kdgsvrk ul
yzgtjvgzoys ot znkyk bozgr nasgt sgzzkxy cnoin Gskxoig somnz ckrr giikvz gy
gt kdgsvrk, tuz zu hk lurruckj haz yzajouayre zu hk gbuojkj. Kaxuvk sgjk
rghux znk jollkxktzogr, gtj znk vxoik ul oz grr oy ktsoze gtj gtzgmutoys
gtj vxuyzxgzkj otjayzxe, Znk xomnz ul rghux zu robk ot vkgik gtj iusluxz
sayz hk xkiumtofkj he mubkxtsktzy gtj Gskxoig ynuarj hk znk loxyz zu rge
znk luatjgzout yzutky avut cnoin otjayzxogr vkgik yngrr hk haorz.

Rghux tuz utre oy ktzozrkj zu gt gjkwagzk cgmk, haz igvozgr ynuarj xkikobk
g xkgyutghrk xkzaxt avut ozy otbkyzsktz gtj oy ktzozrkj zu vxuzkizout gz
znk ngtjy ul znk Mubkxtsktz ot kbkxe kskxmktie. Tu Mubkxtsktz cuxzne ul znk
tgsk igt "vrge" znkyk krksktzy gmgotyz kgin uznkx, lux znkxk oy g sazagroze
ul otzkxkyz hkzckkt znks cnoin znk Mubkxtsktz sayz ykkq zu kdvxkyy gtj zu
yglkmagxj gz grr iuyz.

Znk xomnz ul otjobojagry zu yzxoqk oy otbourgzk gtj uamnz tuz zu hk
otzkxlkxkj cozn he gte vxuikyy ul Mubkxtsktz, haz znkxk oy g vxkjusotgtz
xomnz gtj zngz oy znk xomnz ul znk Mubkxtsktz zu vxuzkiz grr ul ozy vkuvrk
gtj zu gyykxz ozy vuckx gtj sgpkyze gmgotyz znk ingrrktmk ul gte irgyy. Znk
Mubkxtsktz, cnkt oz gyykxzy zngz xomnz, ykkqy tuz zu gtzgmutofk g irgyy haz
yosvre zu jklktj znk xomnz ul znk cnurk vkuvrk gy gmgotyz znk oxxkvgxghrk
ngxs gtj otpaxe zngz somnz hk jutk he znk gzzksvz he gte irgyy zu ayaxv g
vuckx zngz utre Mubkxtsktz ozykrl ngy g xomnz zu kdkxioyk gy g vxuzkizout
zu grr.

Ot znk sgzzkx ul otzkxtgzoutgr joyvazky cnoin ngbk rkj zu cgx, yzgzkyskt
ngbk yuamnz zu ykz av gy g xkskje gxhozxgzout lux cgx. Juky znoy tuz vuotz
znk cge lux znk ykzzrksktz ul otjayzxogr joyvazky, he znk kyzghroynsktz ul
g zxohatgr, lgox gtj payz groqk zu grr, cnoin corr ykzzrk otjayzxogr
joyvazky cnoin ot znk vgyz ngbk rkj zu cgx gtj joygyzkx? Gskxoig,
coztkyyotm znk kbor iutykwaktiky cnoin ngbk lurruckj uaz ul yain joyvazky
hkzckkt znkyk iutzktjotm luxiky, sayz tuz gjsoz ozykrl osvuzktz zu jkgr
cozn znkyk sgzzkxy he skgty ul vkgiklar vxuikyyky. Yaxkre, znkxk sayz hk
yusk skznuj ul hxotmotm zumkznkx ot g iuatior ul vkgik gtj gsoze znkyk zcu
mxkgz otzkxkyzy, uaz ul cnoin corr iusk g ngvvokx jge ul vkgik gtj
iuuvkxgzout, g jge zngz corr sgqk skt suxk nuvklar gtj ktznayogyzoi ot
znkox bgxouay zgyqy, zngz corr sgqk lux suxk iusluxz gtj ngvvotkyy ot
robotm gtj g suxk zurkxghrk iutjozout gsutm grr irgyyky ul skt. Ikxzgotre
nasgt otzkrromktik igt jkboyk yusk giikvzghrk zxohatgr lux gjpayzotm znk
jollkxktiky hkzckkt igvozgr gtj rghux.

Znoy oy znk nuax ul zkyz gtj zxogr lux Gskxoig. He nkx vxuckyy gtj
yzxktmzn, gtj znk otjusozghrk iuaxgmk ul nkx yurjokxy, ynk jksutyzxgzkj nkx
vuckx zu botjoigzk ut luxkomt hgzzrklokrjy nkx iutikvzouty ul rohkxze gtj
payzoik. Rkz tuz nkx otlraktik gy g skjogzux hkzckkt igvozgr gtj rghux hk
ckgqktkj gtj nkx uct lgoraxk zu ykzzrk sgzzkxy ul vaxkre juskyzoi iutikxt
hk vxuirgoskj zu znk cuxrj. Znkxk gxk znuyk ot znoy iuatzxe cnu znxkgzkt
joxkiz gizout zu luxik znkox corr, avut g sgpuxoze. Xayyog zujge, cozn ozy
hruuj gtj zkxxux, oy g vgotlar uhpkiz rkyyut ul znk vuckx ul sotuxozoky. Oz
sgqky rozzrk jollkxktik cngz sotuxoze oz oy; cnkznkx igvozgr ux rghux, ux
gte uznkx irgyy; tu yuxz ul vxoborkmk corr kbkx hk vkxsozzkj zu jusotgzk
znoy iuatzxe. Ck gxk g vgxztkxynov ux tuznotm zngz oy cuxzn cnork. Ck gxk g
jksuixgie, cnkxk znk sgpuxoze gxk znk sgyzkxy, ux grr znk nuvky gtj
vaxvuyky ul znk skt cnu luatjkj znoy mubkxtsktz ngbk hkkt jklkgzkj gtj
luxmuzzkt. Ot Gskxoig znkxk oy haz utk cge he cnoin mxkgz xkluxsy igt hk
giiusvroynkj gtj znk xkrokl yuamnz he irgyyky uhzgotkj, gtj zngz oy znxuamn
znk uxjkxre vxuikyyky ul xkvxkyktzgzobk mubkxtsktz. Znuyk cnu cuarj vxuvuyk
gte uznkx skznuj ul xkluxs gxk ktksoky ul znoy iuatzxe. Gskxoig corr tuz hk
jgatzkj he znxkgzy tux ruyk nkx iusvuyaxk ux igrstkyy ot znkyk joyzxkyyotm
zosky. Ck igt glluxj, ot znk sojyz ul znoy jge ul vgyyout gtj atxkyz, zu hk
ykrl-iutzgotkj gtj yaxk. Znk otyzxasktz ul grr xkluxs ot Gskxoig oy znk
hgrruz. Znk xugj zu kiutusoi gtj yuiogr xkluxs ot Gskxoig oy znk yzxgomnz
xugj ul payzoik zu grr irgyyky gtj iutjozouty ul skt. Skt ngbk haz zu
lurruc znoy xugj zu xkgrofk znk larr lxaozout ul znkox uhpkizy gtj
vaxvuyky. Rkz znuyk hkcgxk cnu cuarj zgqk znk ynuxzkx xugj ul joyuxjkx gtj
xkburazout. Znk xomnz xugj oy znk xugj ul payzoik gtj uxjkxre vxuikyy.