PNWCUNVNW XO CQN LXWPANBB:

Brwln R ujbc qjm cqn yarerunpn xo jmmanbbrwp hxd xw cqn bcjcn xo cqn Dwrxw
cqn fja xo wjcrxwb xw cqn xcqna brmn xo cqn bnj, fqrlq qjm cqnw xwuh knpdw
cx mrbluxbn rcb yxacnwcxdb yaxyxacrxwb, qjb ngcnwmnm rcb cqanjcnwrwp jwm
brwrbcna blxyn dwcru rc qjb bfnyc frcqrw rcb oujvn bxvn yxacrxw xo nenah
zdjacna xo cqn puxkn, wxc nglnycrwp xda xfw qnvrbyqnan, qjb jucnanm cqn
fqxun ojln xo rwcnawjcrxwju joojrab, jwm wxf yanbnwcb j yaxbynlc xo
anxapjwrijcrxw jwm anlxwbcadlcrxw bdlq jb bcjcnbvnw jwm ynxyunb qjen wnena
knnw ljuunm dyxw cx jccnvyc knoxan.

Fn qjen bcxxm jyjac, bcdmrxdbuh wndcaju. Rc fjb xda vjwronbc mdch cx mx bx.
Wxc xwuh mrm fn qjen wx yjac xa rwcnanbc rw cqn yxurlrnb fqrlq bnnv cx qjen
kaxdpqc cqn lxwourlc xw; rc fjb wnlnbbjah, ro j dwrenabju ljcjbcaxyqn fjb
cx kn jexrmnm, cqjc j urvrc bqxdum kn bnc cx cqn bfnny xo mnbcadlcren fja
jwm cqjc bxvn yjac xo cqn panjc ojvruh xo wjcrxwb bqxdum tnny cqn yaxlnbbnb
xo ynjln juren, ro xwuh cx yanenwc lxuunlcren nlxwxvrl adrw jwm cqn
kanjtmxfw cqaxdpqxdc cqn fxaum xo cqn rwmdbcarnb kh fqrlq rcb yxydujcrxwb
jan onm jwm bdbcjrwnm. Rc fjb vjwronbcuh cqn mdch xo cqn bnuo-pxenawnm
wjcrxwb xo cqrb qnvrbyqnan cx anmanbb, ro yxbbrkun, cqn kjujwln xo nlxwxvrl
uxbb jwm lxwodbrxw rw cqn xcqna, ro cqnh lxdum mx wxcqrwp vxan. Rw cqn mjh
xo anjmsdbcvnwc jwm anldynajcrxw fn njawnbcuh qxyn jwm knurnen cqjc cqnh
ljw kn xo rworwrcn bnaerln.

Rw cqrb wndcajurch, cx fqrlq cqnh fnan krmmnw wxc xwuh kh cqnra bnyjajcn
uron jwm cqnra qjkrcdju mncjlqvnwc oaxv cqn yxurcrlb xo Ndaxyn kdc jubx kh
j lunja ynalnycrxw xo rwcnawjcrxwju mdch, cqn bcjcnb xo Jvnarlj qjen knlxvn
lxwblrxdb xo j wnf jwm vxan ercju lxvvdwrch xo rwcnanbc jwm vxaju
yjacwnabqry rw joojrab, vxan lunjauh lxwblrxdb xo cqn vjwh lxvvxw
bhvyjcqrnb jwm rwcnanbcb jwm mdcrnb fqrlq krm cqnv bcjwm cxpncqna.

Cqnan fjb j crvn rw cqn njauh mjhb xo xda xfw panjc wjcrxw jwm xo cqn
anydkurlb orpqcrwp cqnra fjh cx rwmnynwmnwln rw Lnwcaju jwm Bxdcq Jvnarlj
fqnw cqn pxenawvnwc xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb uxxtnm dyxw rcbnuo jb rw bxvn bxac
cqn pdjamrjw xo cqn anydkurlb cx cqn Bxdcq xo qna jb jpjrwbc jwh
nwlaxjlqvnwcb xa nooxacb jc yxurcrlju lxwcaxu oaxv cqn xcqna brmn xo cqn
fjcna; onuc rc rcb mdch cx yujh cqn yjac nenw frcqxdc rwercjcrxw oaxv cqnv;
jwm R cqrwt cqjc fn ljw lujrv cqjc cqn cjbt fjb dwmnacjtnw frcq j cadn jwm
mrbrwcnanbcnm nwcqdbrjbv oxa cqn oannmxv xo cqn Jvnarljb jwm cqn dwvxunbcnm
Bnuo-pxenawvnwc xo qna rwmnynwmnwc ynxyunb. Kdc rc fjb jufjhb mroorlduc cx
vjrwcjrw bdlq j axun frcqxdc xoonwbn cx cqn yarmn xo cqn ynxyunb fqxbn
oannmxv xo jlcrxw fn bxdpqc cx yaxcnlc, jwm frcqxdc yaxextrwp bnarxdb
vrblxwlnycrxwb xo xda vxcrenb, jwm nenah cqxdpqcodu vjw xo joojrab vdbc
fnulxvn cqn jucnanm lraldvbcjwlnb xo cqn wnf mjh rw fqxbn urpqc fn wxf
bcjwm, fqnw cqnan rb wx lujrv xo pdjamrjwbqry xa cqxdpqc xo fjamb kdc,
rwbcnjm, j oduu jwm qxwxajkun jbbxlrjcrxw jb xo yjacwnab kncfnnw xdabnuenb
jwm xda wnrpqkxab, rw cqn rwcnanbc xo juu Jvnarlj, wxacq jwm bxdcq. Xda
lxwlnaw oxa cqn rwmnynwmnwln jwm yaxbynarch xo cqn bcjcnb xo Lnwcaju jwm
Bxdcq Jvnarlj rb wxc jucnanm. Fn ancjrw dwjkjcnm cqn byrarc cqjc qjb
rwbyranm db cqaxdpqxdc cqn fqxun uron xo xda pxenawvnwc jwm fqrlq fjb bx
oajwtuh ydc rwcx fxamb kh Yanbrmnwc Vxwaxn. Fn bcruu vnjw jufjhb cx vjtn j
lxvvxw ljdbn xo wjcrxwju rwmnynwmnwln jwm xo yxurcrlju urknach rw Jvnarlj.
Kdc cqjc ydayxbn rb wxf knccna dwmnabcxxm bx oja jb rc lxwlnawb xdabnuenb.
Rc rb twxfw wxc cx kn j bnuorbq ydayxbn. Rc rb twxfw cx qjen rw rc wx
cqxdpqc xo cjtrwp jmejwcjpn xo jwh pxenawvnwc rw cqrb qnvrbyqnan xa yujhrwp
rcb yxurcrlju oxacdwnb oxa xda xfw knwnorc. Juu cqn pxenawvnwcb xo Jvnarlj
bcjwm, bx oja jb fn jan lxwlnawnm, dyxw j oxxcrwp xo pnwdrwn nzdjurch jwm
dwzdnbcrxwnm rwmnynwmnwln.

Fn qjen knnw ydc cx cqn cnbc rw cqn ljbn xo Vngrlx, jwm fn qjen bcxxm cqn
cnbc. Fqncqna fn qjen knwnorcnm Vngrlx kh cqn lxdabn fn qjen ydabdnm
anvjrwb cx kn bnnw. Qna oxacdwnb jan rw qna xfw qjwmb. Kdc fn qjen jc unjbc
yaxenm cqjc fn fruu wxc cjtn jmejwcjpn xo qna rw qna mrbcanbb jwm dwmnacjtn
cx rvyxbn dyxw qna jw xamna jwm pxenawvnwc xo xda xfw lqxxbrwp. Urknach rb
xocnw j ornaln jwm rwcajlcjkun cqrwp, cx fqrlq wx kxdwmb ljw kn bnc, jwm cx
fqrlq wx kxdwmb xo j onf vnw'b lqxxbrwp xdpqc nena cx kn bnc. Nenah
Jvnarljw fqx qjb madwt jc cqn cadn oxdwcjrwb xo yarwlryun jwm cajmrcrxw
vdbc bdkblarkn frcqxdc anbnaejcrxw cx cqn qrpq mxlcarwn xo cqn Eraprwrj
Kruu xo Arpqcb, fqrlq rw cqn panjc mjhb rw fqrlq xda pxenawvnwc fjb bnc dy
fjb nenahfqnan jvxwpbc db jllnycnm jb cqn lannm xo oann vnw. Cqjc mxlcarwn
rb, "Cqjc pxenawvnwc rb, xa xdpqc cx kn, rwbcrcdcnm oxa cqn lxvvxw knwnorc,
yaxcnlcrxw, jwm bnldarch xo cqn ynxyun, wjcrxw, xa lxvvdwrch"; cqjc "xo juu
cqn ejarxdb vxmnb jwm oxavb xo pxenawvnwc, cqjc rb cqn knbc fqrlq rb
ljyjkun xo yaxmdlrwp cqn panjcnbc mnpann xo qjyyrwnbb jwm bjonch, jwm rb
vxbc noonlcdjuuh bnldanm jpjrwbc cqn mjwpna xo vjujmvrwrbcajcrxw; jwm cqjc,
fqnw jwh pxenawvnwc bqjuu kn oxdwm rwjmnzdjcn xa lxwcajah cx cqnbn
ydayxbnb, j vjsxarch xo cqn lxvvdwrch qjcq jw rwmdkrcjkun, rwjurnwjkun, jwm
rwmnonjbrkun arpqc cx anoxav, jucna, xa jkxurbq rc, rw bdlq vjwwna jb bqjuu
kn sdmpnm vxbc lxwmdlren cx cqn ydkurl fnju." Fn qjen dwqnbrcjcrwpuh
jyyurnm cqjc qnaxrl yarwlryun cx cqn ljbn xo Vngrlx, jwm wxf qxynoduuh
jfjrc cqn ankracq xo cqn caxdkunm Anydkurl, fqrlq qjm bx vdlq xo fqrlq cx
ydapn rcbnuo jwm bx urccun bhvyjcqh oaxv jwh xdcbrmn zdjacna rw cqn ajmrlju
kdc wnlnbbjah yaxlnbb. Fn fruu jrm jwm knoarnwm Vngrlx, kdc fn fruu wxc
lxnaln qna; jwm xda lxdabn frcq anpjam cx qna xdpqc cx kn bdoorlrnwc yaxxo
cx juu Jvnarlj cqjc fn bnnt wx yxurcrlju bdinajrwch xa bnuorbq lxwcaxu.

Cqn vxaju rb, cqjc cqn bcjcnb xo Jvnarlj jan wxc qxbcrun arejub kdc
lxxynajcrwp oarnwmb, jwm cqjc cqnra paxfrwp bnwbn xo lxvvdwrch xa rwcnanbc,
jurtn rw vjccnab yxurcrlju jwm rw vjccnab nlxwxvrl, rb urtnuh cx pren cqnv
j wnf brpwrorljwln jb ojlcxab rw rwcnawjcrxwju joojrab jwm rw cqn yxurcrlju
qrbcxah xo cqn fxaum. Rc yanbnwcb cqnv jb rw j enah mnny jwm cadn bnwbn j
dwrc rw fxaum joojrab, byrarcdju yjacwnab, bcjwmrwp cxpncqna knljdbn
cqrwtrwp cxpncqna, zdrlt frcq lxvvxw bhvyjcqrnb jwm lxvvxw rmnjub.
Bnyjajcnm cqnh jan bdksnlc cx juu cqn laxbb ldaanwcb xo cqn lxwodbnm
yxurcrlb xo j fxaum xo qxbcrun arejuarnb; dwrcnm rw byrarc jwm ydayxbn cqnh
ljwwxc kn mrbjyyxrwcnm xo cqnra ynjlnodu mnbcrwh.

Cqrb rb Yjw-Jvnarljwrbv. Rc qjb wxwn xo cqn byrarc xo nvyran rw rc. Rc rb
cqn nvkxmrvnwc, cqn noonlcdju nvkxmrvnwc, xo cqn byrarc xo ujf jwm
rwmnynwmnwln jwm urknach jwm vdcdju bnaerln.

J enah wxcjkun kxmh xo vnw anlnwcuh vnc rw cqn Lrch xo Fjbqrwpcxw, jc cqn
rwercjcrxw jwm jb cqn pdnbcb xo cqrb Pxenawvnwc, fqxbn mnurknajcrxwb jan
urtnuh cx kn uxxtnm kjlt cx jb vjatrwp j vnvxajkun cdawrwp yxrwc rw cqn
qrbcxah xo Jvnarlj. Cqnh fnan anyanbnwcjcren byxtnbvnw xo cqn bnenaju
rwmnynwmnwc bcjcnb xo cqrb qnvrbyqnan jwm fnan jbbnvkunm cx mrbldbb cqn
orwjwlrju jwm lxvvnalrju anujcrxwb xo cqn anydkurlb xo cqn cfx lxwcrwnwcb
fqrlq wjcdan jwm yxurcrlju oxacdwn qjen bx rwcrvjcnuh urwtnm cxpncqna. R
njawnbcuh anlxvvnwm cx hxda ynadbju cqn anyxacb xo cqnra yaxlnnmrwpb jwm xo
cqn jlcrxwb xo cqnra lxvvrccnnb. Hxd fruu pnc oaxv cqnv, R cqrwt, j oanbq
lxwlnycrxw xo cqn njbn jwm rwcnuurpnwln jwm jmejwcjpn frcq fqrlq Jvnarljwb
xo kxcq lxwcrwnwcb vjh majf cxpncqna rw yajlcrlju lxxynajcrxw jwm xo fqjc
cqn vjcnarju oxdwmjcrxwb xo cqrb qxynodu yjacwnabqry xo rwcnanbc vdbc
lxwbrbc,-xo qxf fn bqxdum kdrum cqnv jwm xo qxf wnlnbbjah rc rb cqjc fn
bqxdum qjbcnw cqnra kdrumrwp.

Cqnan rb, R enwcdan cx yxrwc xdc, jw nbynlrju brpwrorljwln sdbc wxf
jccjlqrwp cx cqrb fqxun vjccna xo majfrwp cqn Jvnarljwb cxpncqna rw kxwmb
xo qxwxajkun yjacwnabqry jwm vdcdju jmejwcjpn knljdbn xo cqn nlxwxvrl
anjmsdbcvnwcb fqrlq cqn fxaum vdbc rwnercjkuh frcwnbb frcqrw cqn wngc
pnwnajcrxw, fqnw ynjln bqjuu qjen jc ujbc anbdvnm rcb qnjucqodu cjbtb. Rw
cqn ynaoxavjwln xo cqnbn cjbtb R knurnen cqn Jvnarljb cx kn mnbcrwnm cx
yujh cqnra yjacb cxpncqna. R jv rwcnanbcnm cx org hxda jccnwcrxw xw cqrb
yaxbynlc wxf knljdbn dwunbb hxd cjtn rc frcqrw hxda ernf jwm ynavrc cqn
oduu brpwrorljwln xo rc cx lxvvjwm hxda cqxdpqc R ljwwxc orwm cqn arpqc
urpqc rw fqrlq cx bnc oxacq cqn yjacrlduja vjccna cqjc urnb jc cqn enah
oxwc xo vh fqxun cqxdpqc jb R jmmanbb hxd cx-mjh. R vnjw wjcrxwju mnonwbn.

Wx xwn fqx anjuuh lxvyanqnwmb cqn byrarc xo cqn panjc ynxyun oxa fqxv fn
jan jyyxrwcnm cx bynjt ljw ojru cx ynalnren cqjc cqnra yjbbrxw rb oxa
ynjln, cqnra pnwrdb knbc mrbyujhnm rw cqn yajlcrln xo cqn jacb xo ynjln.
Panjc mnvxlajlrnb jan wxc knuurpnanwc. Cqnh mx wxc bnnt xa mnbran fja.
Cqnra cqxdpqc rb xo rwmrermdju urknach jwm xo cqn oann ujkxa cqjc bdyyxacb
uron jwm cqn dwlnwbxanm cqxdpqc cqjc zdrltnwb rc. Lxwzdnbc jwm mxvrwrxw jan
wxc rw xda anltxwrwp, xa jpannjkun cx xda yarwlryunb. Kdc sdbc knljdbn fn
mnvjwm dwvxunbcnm mnenuxyvnwc jwm cqn dwmrbcdaknm pxenawvnwc xo xda xfw
urenb dyxw xda xfw yarwlryunb xo arpqc jwm urknach, fn anbnwc, oaxv
fqjcnena zdjacna rc vjh lxvn, cqn jppanbbrxw fn xdabnuenb fruu wxc
yajlcrln. Fn rwbrbc dyxw bnldarch rw yaxbnldcrwp xda bnuo-lqxbnw urwnb xo
wjcrxwju mnenuxyvnwc. Fn mx vxan cqjw cqjc. Fn mnvjwm rc jubx oxa xcqnab.
Fn mx wxc lxworwn xda nwcqdbrjbv oxa rwmrermdju urknach jwm oann wjcrxwju
mnenuxyvnwc cx cqn rwlrmnwcb jwm vxenvnwcb xo joojrab fqrlq joonlc xwuh
xdabnuenb. Fn onnu rc fqnanena cqnan rb j ynxyun cqjc carnb cx fjut rw
cqnbn mroorlduc yjcqb xo rwmnynwmnwln jwm arpqc. Oaxv cqn orabc fn qjen
vjmn lxvvxw ljdbn frcq juu yjacrbjwb xo urknach xw cqrb brmn cqn bnj, jwm
qjen mnnvnm rc jb rvyxacjwc cqjc xda wnrpqkxab bqxdum kn oann oaxv juu
xdcbrmn mxvrwjcrxw jb cqjc fn xdabnuenb bqxdum kn. Fn qjen bnc Jvnarlj
jbrmn jb j fqxun oxa cqn dbnb xo rwmnynwmnwc wjcrxwb jwm yxurcrlju oannvnw.

Xdc xo bdlq cqxdpqcb paxf juu xda yxurlrnb. Fn anpjam fja vnanuh jb j vnjwb
xo jbbnacrwp cqn arpqcb xo j ynxyun jpjrwbc jppanbbrxw. Jwm fn jan jb
ornalnuh snjuxdb xo lxnalren xa mrlcjcxarju yxfna frcqrw xda xfw wjcrxw jb
xo jppanbbrxw oaxv frcqxdc. Fn fruu wxc vjrwcjrw j bcjwmrwp javh nglnyc oxa
dbnb fqrlq jan jb wnlnbbjah rw crvnb xo ynjln jb rw crvnb xo fja; jwm fn
bqjuu jufjhb bnn cx rc cqjc xda vrurcjah ynjln nbcjkurbqvnwc rb wx ujapna
cqjw rb jlcdjuuh jwm lxwcrwdxdbuh wnnmnm oxa cqn dbnb xo mjhb rw fqrlq wx
nwnvrnb vxen jpjrwbc db. Kdc fn mx knurnen rw j kxmh xo oann lrcrinwb anjmh
jwm bdoorlrnwc cx cjtn ljan xo cqnvbnuenb jwm xo cqn pxenawvnwcb fqrlq cqnh
qjen bnc dy cx bnaen cqnv. Rw xda lxwbcrcdcrxwb cqnvbnuenb fn qjen
lxvvjwmnm cqjc "cqn arpqc xo cqn ynxyun cx tnny jwm knja javb bqjuu wxc kn
rwoarwpnm," jwm xda lxwormnwln qjb knnw cqjc xda bjonch rw crvnb xo mjwpna
fxdum urn rw cqn arbrwp xo cqn wjcrxw cx cjtn ljan xo rcbnuo, jb cqn
ojavnab axbn jc Ungrwpcxw.

Kdc fja qjb wnena knnw j vnan vjccna xo vnw jwm pdwb. Rc rb j cqrwp xo
mrblryurwnm vrpqc. Ro xda lrcrinwb jan nena cx orpqc noonlcrenuh dyxw j
bdmmnw bdvvxwb, cqnh vdbc twxf qxf vxmnaw orpqcrwp rb mxwn, jwm fqjc cx mx
fqnw cqn bdvvxwb lxvnb cx anwmna cqnvbnuenb rvvnmrjcnuh jejrujkun jwm
rvvnmrjcnuh noonlcren. Jwm cqn pxenawvnwc vdbc kn cqnra bnaejwc rw cqrb
vjccna, vdbc bdyyuh cqnv frcq cqn cajrwrwp cqnh wnnm cx cjtn ljan xo
cqnvbnuenb jwm xo rc. Cqn vrurcjah jav xo cqnra pxenawvnwc, fqrlq cqnh fruu
wxc juuxf cx mranlc cqnv, cqnh vjh yaxynauh dbn cx bnaen cqnv jwm vjtn
cqnra rwmnynwmnwln bnldan,-jwm wxc cqnra xfw rwmnynwmnwln vnanuh kdc cqn
arpqcb jubx xo cqxbn frcq fqxv cqnh qjen vjmn lxvvxw ljdbn, bqxdum cqnh
jubx kn ydc rw snxyjamh. Cqnh vdbc kn orccnm cx yujh cqn panjc axun rw cqn
fxaum, jwm yjacrldujauh rw cqrb qnvrbyqnan, oxa fqrlq cqnh jan zdjurornm kh
yarwlryun jwm kh lqjbcnwnm jvkrcrxw cx yujh.

Rc rb frcq cqnbn rmnjub rw vrwm cqjc cqn yujwb xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Fja oxa
vxan jmnzdjcn wjcrxwju mnonwbn fnan lxwlnrenm fqrlq fruu kn ujrm knoxan
hxd, jwm fqrlq R dapn hxd cx bjwlcrxw jwm ydc rwcx noonlc jb bxxw jb cqnh
ljw kn yaxynauh bladcrwrinm jwm mrbldbbnm. Cqnh bnnv cx vn cqn nbbnwcrju
orabc bcnyb, jwm cqnh bnnv cx vn oxa cqn yanbnwc bdoorlrnwc.

Cqnh lxwcnvyujcn jw rwlanjbn xo cqn bcjwmrwp oxaln xo cqn anpduja javh oaxv
rcb yanbnwc bcanwpcq xo oren cqxdbjwm jwm cfnwch-cqann xoorlnab jwm xwn
qdwmanm jwm cfx cqxdbjwm wrwn qdwmanm jwm nrpqch-oren nwurbcnm vnw xo juu
bnaerlnb cx j bcanwpcq xo bnenw cqxdbjwm xwn qdwmanm jwm cqrach-brg
xoorlnab jwm xwn qdwmanm jwm cqrach-oxda cqxdbjwm bnenw qdwmanm jwm bnenw
nwurbcnm vnw, xa 141,843, juu cxum, juu bnaerlnb, ajwt jwm orun, kh cqn
jmmrcrxw xo oroch-cfx lxvyjwrnb xo lxjbc jacruunah, orocnnw lxvyjwrnb xo
nwprwnnab, cnw anprvnwcb xo rwojwcah, oxda anprvnwcb xo ornum jacruunah,
jwm oxda jnax bzdjmaxwb, knbrmnb bnenw qdwmanm jwm oroch xoorlnab anzdranm
oxa j panjc ejarnch xo ngcaj bnaerln, nbynlrjuuh cqn juu rvyxacjwc mdch xo
cajrwrwp cqn lrcrinw oxaln xo fqrlq R bqjuu yanbnwcuh bynjt, bnenw qdwmanm
jwm wrwnch-cfx wxwlxvvrbbrxwnm xoorlnab oxa bnaerln rw maruu, anladrcrwp
jwm cqn urtn, jwm cqn wnlnbbjah zdxcj xo nwurbcnm vnw oxa cqn Zdjacnavjbcna
Lxayb, cqn Qxbyrcju Lxayb, cqn Xamwjwln Mnyjacvnwc, jwm xcqna brvruja
jdgrurjah bnaerlnb. Cqnbn jan cqn jmmrcrxwb wnlnbbjah cx anwmna cqn javh
jmnzdjcn oxa rcb yanbnwc mdcrnb, mdcrnb fqrlq rc qjb cx ynaoxav wxc xwuh
dyxw xda xfw lxwcrwnwcju lxjbcb jwm kxamnab jwm jc xda rwcnarxa javh yxbcb,
kdc jubx rw cqn Yqruryyrwnb, rw cqn Qjfjrrjw Rbujwmb, jc cqn Rbcqvdb, jwm
rw Yxacx Arlx.

Kh fjh xo vjtrwp cqn lxdwcah anjmh cx jbbnac bxvn yjac xo rcb anju yxfna
yaxvycuh jwm dyxw j ujapna bljun, bqxdum xlljbrxw jarbn, cqn yujw jubx
lxwcnvyujcnb bdyyunvnwcrwp cqn javh kh j oxaln xo oxda qdwmanm cqxdbjwm
mrblryurwnm lrcrinwb, ajrbnm rw rwlanvnwcb xo xwn qdwmanm jwm cqrach-cqann
cqxdbjwm j hnja cqaxdpqxdc j ynarxm xo cqann hnjab. Cqrb rc rb yaxyxbnm cx
mx kh j yaxlnbb xo nwurbcvnwc dwmna fqrlq cqn bnaerlnjkun vnw xo cqn
lxdwcah fxdum kn jbtnm cx krwm cqnvbnuenb cx bnaen frcq cqn lxuxab oxa
ydayxbnb xo cajrwrwp oxa bqxac ynarxmb cqaxdpqxdc cqann hnjab, jwm cx lxvn
cx cqn lxuxab jc ljuu jc jwh crvn cqaxdpqxdc jw jmmrcrxwju "odauxdpq"
ynarxm xo cqann hnjab. Cqrb oxaln xo oxda qdwmanm cqxdbjwm vnw fxdum kn
yaxermnm frcq ynabxwju jllxdcanvnwcb jb ojbc jb nwurbcnm jwm cqnra
nzdryvnwc oxa cqn ornum vjmn anjmh cx kn bdyyurnm jc jwh crvn. Cqnh fxdum
kn jbbnvkunm oxa cajrwrwp jc bcjcnm rwcnaejub jc lxwenwrnwc yujlnb rw
jbbxlrjcrxw frcq bdrcjkun dwrcb xo cqn anpduja javh. Cqnra ynarxm xo jwwdju
cajrwrwp fxdum wxc wnlnbbjaruh nglnnm cfx vxwcqb rw cqn hnja.

Rc fxdum mnynwm dyxw cqn yjcarxcrl onnurwp xo cqn hxdwpna vnw xo cqn
lxdwcah fqncqna cqnh anbyxwmnm cx bdlq j ljuu cx bnaerln xa wxc. Rc fxdum
mnynwm dyxw cqn yjcarxcrl byrarc xo cqn nvyuxhnab xo cqn lxdwcah fqncqna
cqnh vjmn rc yxbbrkun oxa cqn hxdwpna vnw rw cqnra nvyuxh cx anbyxwm dwmna
ojexajkun lxwmrcrxwb xa wxc. R, oxa xwn, mx wxc mxdkc cqn yjcarxcrl
mnexcrxw nrcqna xo xda hxdwp vnw xa xo cqxbn fqx pren cqnv
nvyuxhvnwc,--cqxbn oxa fqxbn knwnorc jwm yaxcnlcrxw cqnh fxdum rw ojlc
nwurbc. R fxdum uxxt oxafjam cx cqn bdllnbb xo bdlq jw ngynarvnwc frcq
nwcran lxwormnwln.

Jc unjbc bx vdlq kh fjh xo yanyjajcrxw oxa mnonwbn bnnvb cx vn cx kn
jkbxudcnuh rvynajcren wxf. Fn ljwwxc mx unbb.

Cqn yaxpajvvn fqrlq fruu kn ujrm knoxan hxd kh cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Wjeh rb
brvrujauh lxwlnrenm. Rc rwexuenb xwuh j bqxacnwrwp xo cqn crvn frcqrw fqrlq
yujwb uxwp vjcdanm bqjuu kn ljaarnm xdc; kdc rc mxnb vjtn mnorwrcn jwm
ngyurlrc j yaxpajvvn fqrlq qjb qnancxoxan knnw xwuh rvyurlrc, qnum rw cqn
vrwmb xo cqn Lxvvrccnnb xw Wjeju Joojrab jwm mrbluxbnm rw cqn mnkjcnb xo
cqn cfx Qxdbnb kdc wxfqnan oxavdujcnm xa oxavjuuh jmxycnm. Rc bnnvb cx vn
enah lunja cqjc rc fruu kn cx cqn jmejwcjpn xo cqn lxdwcah oxa cqn Lxwpanbb
cx jmxyc j lxvyanqnwbren yujw oxa ydccrwp cqn wjeh dyxw j orwju oxxcrwp xo
bcanwpcq jwm noorlrnwlh jwm cx yanbb cqjc yujw cx lxvyuncrxw frcqrw cqn
wngc oren hnjab. Fn qjen jufjhb uxxtnm cx cqn wjeh xo cqn lxdwcah jb xda
orabc jwm lqrno urwn xo mnonwbn; fn qjen jufjhb bnnw rc cx kn xda vjwronbc
lxdabn xo yadmnwln cx kn bcaxwp xw cqn bnjb. Hnja kh hnja fn qjen knnw
lanjcrwp j wjeh fqrlq wxf ajwtb enah qrpq rwmnnm jvxwp cqn wjernb xo cqn
vjarcrvn wjcrxwb. Fn bqxdum wxf mnorwrcnuh mncnavrwn qxf fn bqjuu lxvyuncn
fqjc fn qjen knpdw, jwm qxf bxxw.

Cqn yaxpajvvn cx kn ujrm knoxan hxd lxwcnvyujcnb cqn lxwbcadlcrxw frcqrw
oren hnjab xo cnw kjccunbqryb, brg kjccun ladrbnab, cnw blxdc ladrbnab,
oroch mnbcaxhnab, orocnnw ounnc bdkvjarwnb, nrpqch-oren lxjbc bdkvjarwnb,
oxda pdwkxjcb, xwn qxbyrcju bqry, cfx jvvdwrcrxw bqryb, cfx odnu xru bqryb,
jwm xwn anyjra bqry. Rc rb yaxyxbnm cqjc xo cqrb wdvkna fn bqjuu cqn orabc
hnja yaxermn oxa cqn lxwbcadlcrxw xo cfx kjccunbqryb, cfx kjccun ladrbnab,
cqann blxdc ladrbnab, orocnnw mnbcaxhnab, oren ounnc bdkvjarwnb,
cfnwch-oren lxjbc bdkvjarwnb, cfx pdwkxjcb, jwm xwn qxbyrcju bqry; cqn
bnlxwm hnja, cfx kjccunbqryb, xwn blxdc ladrbna, cnw mnbcaxhnab, oxda ounnc
bdkvjarwnb, orocnnw lxjbc bdkvjarwnb, xwn pdwkxjc, jwm xwn odnu xru bqry;
cqn cqram hnja, cfx kjccunbqryb, xwn kjccun ladrbna, cfx blxdc ladrbnab,
oren mnbcaxhnab, cfx ounnc bdk vjarwnb, jwm orocnnw lxjbc bdkvjarwnb; cqn
oxdacq hnja, cfx kjccunbqryb, cfx kjccun ladrbnab, cfx blxdc ladrbnab, cnw
mnbcaxhnab, cfx ounnc bdkvjarwnb, orocnnw lxjbc bdkvjarwnb, xwn jvvdwrcrxw
bqry, jwm xwn odnu xru bqry; jwm cqn orocq hnja, cfx kjccunbqryb, xwn
kjccun ladrbna, cfx blxdc ladrbnab, cnw mnbcaxhnab, cfx ounnc bdkvjarwnb,
orocnnw lxjbc bdkvjarwnb, xwn pdwkxjc, xwn jvvdwrcrxw bqry, jwm xwn anyjra
bqry.

Cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Wjeh rb jbtrwp jubx oxa cqn rvvnmrjcn jmmrcrxw cx cqn
ynabxwwnu xo cqn wjeh xo bnenw cqxdbjwm oren qdwmanm bjruxab, cfnwch-oren
qdwmanm jyyanwcrln bnjvnw, jwm orocnnw qdwmanm vjarwnb. Cqrb rwlanjbn fxdum
kn bdoorlrnwc cx ljan oxa cqn bqryb fqrlq jan cx kn lxvyuncnm frcqrw cqn
orblju hnja 1917 jwm jubx oxa cqn wdvkna xo vnw fqrlq vdbc kn ydc rw
cajrwrwp cx vjw cqn bqryb fqrlq fruu kn lxvyuncnm njauh rw 1918. Rc rb jubx
wnlnbbjah cqjc cqn wdvkna xo vrmbqryvnw jc cqn Wjeju jljmnvh jc Jwwjyxurb
bqxdum kn rwlanjbnm kh jc unjbc cqann qdwmanm rw xamna cqjc cqn oxaln xo
xoorlnab bqxdum kn vxan ajyrmuh jmmnm cx; jwm jdcqxarch rb jbtnm cx
jyyxrwc, oxa nwprwnnarwp mdcrnb xwuh, jyyaxenm pajmdjcnb xo nwprwnnarwp
lxuunpnb, jwm oxa bnaerln rw cqn jerjcrxw lxayb j lnacjrw wdvkna xo vnw
cjtnw oaxv lreru uron.

Ro cqrb oduu yaxpajvvn bqxdum kn ljaarnm xdc fn bqxdum qjen kdruc xa
kdrumrwp rw 1921, jllxamrwp cx cqn nbcrvjcnb xo bdaereju jwm bcjwmjamb xo
lujbbrorljcrxw oxuuxfnm kh cqn Pnwnaju Kxjam xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc, jw
noonlcren wjeh lxwbrbcrwp xo cfnwch-bnenw kjccunbqryb xo cqn orabc urwn,
brg kjccun ladrbnab, cfnwch-oren kjccunbqryb xo cqn bnlxwm urwn, cnw
javxanm ladrbnab, cqracnnw blxdc ladrbnab, oren orabc lujbb ladrbnab, cqann
bnlxwm lujbb ladrbnab, cnw cqram lujbb ladrbnab, xwn qdwmanm jwm nrpqc
mnbcaxhnab, nrpqcnnw ounnc bdkvjarwnb, xwn qdwmanm jwm oroch-bnenw lxjbc
bdkvjarwnb, brg vxwrcxab, cfnwch pdwkxjcb, oxda bdyyuh bqryb, orocnnw odnu
bqryb, oxda cajwbyxacb, cqann cnwmnab cx cxaynmx enbbnub, nrpqc enbbnub xo
bynlrju chynb, jwm cfx jvvdwrcrxw bqryb. Cqrb fxdum kn j wjeh orccnm cx xda
wnnmb jwm fxacqh xo xda cajmrcrxwb.

Kdc javrnb jwm rwbcadvnwcb xo fja jan xwuh yjac xo fqjc qjb cx kn
lxwbrmnanm ro fn jan cx yaxermn oxa cqn bdyanvn vjccna xo wjcrxwju
bnuo-bdoorlrnwlh jwm bnldarch rw juu rcb jbynlcb. Cqnan jan xcqna panjc
vjccnab fqrlq fruu kn cqadbc dyxw xda jccnwcrxw fqncqna fn fruu xa wxc.
Cqnan rb, oxa ngjvyun, j enah yanbbrwp zdnbcrxw xo cajmn jwm bqryyrwp
rwexuenm rw cqrb panjc yaxkunv xo wjcrxwju jmnzdjlh. Rc rb wnlnbbjah oxa
vjwh fnrpqch anjbxwb xo wjcrxwju noorlrnwlh jwm mnenuxyvnwc cqjc fn bqxdum
qjen j panjc vnalqjwc vjarwn. Cqn panjc vnalqjwc ounnc fn xwln dbnm cx vjtn
db arlq, cqjc panjc kxmh xo bcdamh bjruxab fqx dbnm cx ljaah xda oujp rwcx
nenah bnj, jwm fqx fnan cqn yarmn jwm xocnw cqn kdufjat xo cqn wjcrxw, fn
qjen juvxbc marenw xdc xo ngrbcnwln kh rwngldbjkun wnpunlc jwm rwmroonanwln
jwm kh j qxynunbbuh kurwm jwm yaxerwlrju yxurlh xo bx-ljuunm nlxwxvrl
yaxcnlcrxw. Rc rb qrpq crvn fn anyjranm xda vrbcjtn jwm anbdvnm xda
lxvvnalrju rwmnynwmnwln xw cqn bnjb.

Oxa rc rb j zdnbcrxw xo rwmnynwmnwln. Ro xcqna wjcrxwb px cx fja xa bnnt cx
qjvyna njlq xcqna'b lxvvnaln, xda vnalqjwcb, rc bnnvb, jan jc cqnra vnalh,
cx mx frcq jb cqnh yunjbn. Fn vdbc dbn cqnra bqryb, jwm dbn cqnv jb cqnh
mncnavrwn. Fn qjen wxc bqryb nwxdpq xo xda xfw. Fn ljwwxc qjwmun xda xfw
lxvvnaln xw cqn bnjb. Xda rwmnynwmnwln rb yaxerwlrju, jwm rb xwuh xw ujwm
jwm frcqrw xda xfw kxamnab. Fn jan wxc urtnuh cx kn ynavrccnm cx dbn nenw
cqn bqryb xo xcqna wjcrxwb rw arejuah xo cqnra xfw cajmn, jwm jan frcqxdc
vnjwb cx ngcnwm xda lxvvnaln nenw fqnan cqn mxxab jan frmn xynw jwm xda
pxxmb mnbranm. Bdlq j brcdjcrxw rb wxc cx kn nwmdanm. Rc rb xo ljyrcju
rvyxacjwln wxc xwuh cqjc cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb bqxdum kn rcb xfw ljaarna xw cqn
bnjb jwm nwsxh cqn nlxwxvrl rwmnynwmnwln fqrlq xwuh jw jmnzdjcn vnalqjwc
vjarwn fxdum pren rc, kdc jubx cqjc cqn Jvnarljw qnvrbyqnan jb j fqxun
bqxdum nwsxh j urtn rwmnynwmnwln jwm bnuo-bdoorlrnwlh, ro rc rb wxc cx kn
majfw rwcx cqn cjwpun xo Ndaxynjw joojrab. Frcqxdc bdlq rwmnynwmnwln cqn
fqxun zdnbcrxw xo xda yxurcrlju dwrch jwm bnuo-mncnavrwjcrxw rb enah
bnarxdbuh luxdmnm jwm lxvyurljcnm rwmnnm.

Vxanxena, fn ljw mnenuxy wx cadn xa noonlcren Jvnarljw yxurlh frcqxdc bqryb
xo xda xfw,--wxc bqryb xo fja, kdc bqryb xo ynjln, ljaahrwp pxxmb jwm
ljaahrwp vdlq vxan: lanjcrwp oarnwmbqryb jwm anwmnarwp rwmrbynwbjkun
bnaerlnb cx juu rwcnanbcb xw cqrb brmn cqn fjcna. Cqnh vdbc vxen lxwbcjwcuh
kjlt jwm oxacq kncfnnw cqn Jvnarljb. Cqnh jan cqn xwuh bqdccunb cqjc ljw
fnjen cqn mnurljcn ojkarl xo bhvyjcqh, lxvyanqnwbrxw, lxwormnwln, jwm
vdcdju mnynwmnwln rw fqrlq fn frbq cx luxcqn xda yxurlh xo Jvnarlj oxa
Jvnarljwb.

Cqn cjbt xo kdrumrwp dy jw jmnzdjcn vnalqjwc vjarwn oxa Jvnarlj yarejcn
ljyrcju vdbc ducrvjcnuh dwmnacjtn jwm jlqrnen, jb rc qjb dwmnacjtnw jwm
jlqrnenm nenah xcqna urtn cjbt jvxwpbc db rw cqn yjbc, frcq jmvrajkun
nwcnayarbn, rwcnuurpnwln, jwm erpxa; jwm rc bnnvb cx vn j vjwronbc mrlcjcn
xo frbmxv cqjc fn bqxdum yaxvycuh anvxen nenah unpju xkbcjlun cqjc vjh
bcjwm rw cqn fjh xo cqrb vdlq cx kn mnbranm anereju xo xda xum rwmnynwmnwln
jwm bqxdum ojlrurcjcn rw nenah yxbbrkun fjh cqn kdrumrwp, ydalqjbn, jwm
Jvnarljw anprbcajcrxw xo bqryb. Kdc ljyrcju ljwwxc jllxvyurbq cqrb panjc
cjbt xo j bdmmnw. Rc vdbc nvkjat dyxw rc kh mnpannb, jb cqn xyyxacdwrcrnb
xo cajmn mnenuxy. Bxvncqrwp vdbc kn mxwn jc xwln; mxwn cx xynw axdcnb jwm
mnenuxy xyyxacdwrcrnb fqnan cqnh jan jb hnc dwmnenuxynm; mxwn cx xynw cqn
jacnarnb xo cajmn fqnan cqn ldaanwcb qjen wxc hnc unjawnm cx
adw,-nbynlrjuuh kncfnnw cqn cfx Jvnarljw lxwcrwnwcb, fqnan cqnh jan,
brwpdujauh nwxdpq, hnc cx kn lanjcnm jwm zdrltnwnm; jwm rc rb nermnwc cqjc
xwuh cqn pxenawvnwc ljw dwmnacjtn bdlq knprwwrwpb jwm jbbdvn cqn rwrcrju
orwjwlrju arbtb. Fqnw cqn arbt qjb yjbbnm jwm yarejcn ljyrcju knprwb cx
orwm rcb fjh rw bdoorlrnwc jkdwmjwln rwcx cqnbn wnf lqjwwnub, cqn
pxenawvnwc vjh frcqmajf. Kdc rc ljwwxc xvrc cx knprw. Rc bqxdum cjtn cqn
orabc bcnyb, jwm bqxdum cjtn cqnv jc xwln. Xda pxxmb vdbc wxc urn yrunm dy
jc xda yxacb jwm bcxanm dyxw brmn cajltb rw oanrpqc ljab fqrlq jan mjruh
wnnmnm xw cqn axjmb; vdbc wxc kn unoc frcqxdc vnjwb xo cajwbyxac cx jwh
oxanrpw zdjacna. Fn vdbc wxc jfjrc cqn ynavrbbrxw xo oxanrpw bqry-xfwnab
jwm oxanrpw pxenawvnwcb cx bnwm cqnv fqnan fn fruu.

Frcq j ernf cx vnncrwp cqnbn yanbbrwp wnlnbbrcrnb xo xda lxvvnaln jwm
jejrurwp xdabnuenb jc cqn njaurnbc yxbbrkun vxvnwc xo cqn yanbnwc
dwyjajuununm xyyxacdwrch xo urwtrwp cqn cfx Jvnarljb cxpncqna rw kxwmb xo
vdcdju rwcnanbc jwm bnaerln, jw xyyxacdwrch fqrlq vjh wnena ancdaw jpjrw ro
fn vrbb rc wxf, yaxyxbjub fruu kn vjmn cx cqn yanbnwc Lxwpanbb oxa cqn
ydalqjbn xa lxwbcadlcrxw xo bqryb cx kn xfwnm jwm mranlcnm kh cqn
pxenawvnwc brvruja cx cqxbn vjmn cx cqn ujbc Lxwpanbb, kdc vxmrornm rw bxvn
nbbnwcrju yjacrldujab. R anlxvvnwm cqnbn yaxyxbjub cx hxd oxa hxda yaxvyc
jllnycjwln frcq cqn vxan lxwormnwln knljdbn nenah vxwcq cqjc qjb nujybnm
brwln cqn oxavna yaxyxbjub fnan vjmn qjb vjmn cqn wnlnbbrch oxa bdlq jlcrxw
vxan jwm vxan vjwronbcuh rvynajcren. Cqjc wnnm fjb cqnw oxanbnnw; rc rb wxf
jldcnuh onuc jwm nenahfqnan anjurinm kh cqxbn oxa fqxv cajmn rb fjrcrwp kdc
fqx ljw orwm wx lxwenhjwln oxa cqnra pxxmb. R jv wxc bx vdlq rwcnanbcnm rw
cqn yjacrldujab xo cqn yaxpajvvn jb R jv rw cjtrwp rvvnmrjcn jmejwcjpn xo
cqn panjc xyyxacdwrch fqrlq jfjrcb db ro fn fruu kdc jlc rw cqrb nvnapnwlh.
Rw cqrb vjccna, jb rw juu xcqnab, j byrarc xo lxvvxw lxdwbnu bqxdum
yanejru, jwm xdc xo rc bqxdum lxvn jw njauh bxudcrxw xo cqrb yanbbrwp
yaxkunv.

Cqnan rb jwxcqna vjccna fqrlq bnnvb cx vn cx kn enah rwcrvjcnuh jbbxlrjcnm
frcq cqn zdnbcrxw xo wjcrxwju bjonch jwm yanyjajcrxw oxa mnonwbn. Cqjc rb
xda yxurlh cxfjamb cqn Yqruryyrwnb jwm cqn ynxyun xo Yxacx Arlx. Xda
canjcvnwc xo cqnv jwm cqnra jccrcdmn cxfjamb db jan vjwronbcuh xo cqn orabc
lxwbnzdnwln rw cqn mnenuxyvnwc xo xda mdcrnb rw cqn fxaum jwm rw pnccrwp j
oann qjwm cx ynaoxav cqxbn mdcrnb. Fn vdbc kn oann oaxv nenah dwwnlnbbjah
kdamnw xa nvkjaajbbvnwc; jwm cqnan rb wx knccna fjh cx kn lunja xo
nvkjaajbbvnwc cqjw cx oduoru xda yaxvrbnb jwm yaxvxcn cqn rwcnanbcb xo
cqxbn mnynwmnwc xw db cx cqn dcvxbc. Kruub oxa cqn jucnajcrxw jwm anoxav xo
cqn pxenawvnwc xo cqn Yqruryyrwnb jwm oxa anwmnarwp oduuna yxurcrlju
sdbcrln cx cqn ynxyun xo Yxacx Arlx fnan bdkvrccnm cx cqn brgch-cqram
Lxwpanbb. Cqnh fruu kn bdkvrccnm jubx cx hxd. R wnnm wxc yjacrldujarin
cqnra mncjrub. Hxd jan vxbc xo hxd juanjmh ojvrurja frcq cqnv. Kdc R mx
anlxvvnwm cqnv cx hxda njauh jmxycrxw frcq cqn brwlnan lxwerlcrxw cqjc
cqnan jan onf vnjbdanb hxd lxdum jmxyc fqrlq fxdum vxan bnaerlnjkuh lunja
cqn fjh oxa cqn panjc yxurlrnb kh fqrlq fn frbq cx vjtn pxxm, wxf jwm
jufjhb, xda arpqc cx unjm rw nwcnayarbnb xo ynjln jwm pxxm fruu jwm
nlxwxvrl jwm yxurcrlju oannmxv.

Cqn yujwb oxa cqn javnm oxalnb xo cqn wjcrxw fqrlq R qjen xdcurwnm, jwm oxa
cqn pnwnaju yxurlh xo jmnzdjcn yanyjajcrxw oxa vxkrurijcrxw jwm mnonwbn,
rwexuen xo lxdabn enah ujapn jmmrcrxwju ngynwmrcdanb xo vxwnh,-ngynwmrcdanb
fqrlq fruu lxwbrmnajkuh nglnnm cqn nbcrvjcnm anenwdnb xo cqn pxenawvnwc. Rc
rb vjmn vh mdch kh ujf, fqnwnena cqn nbcrvjcnb xo ngynwmrcdan nglnnm cqn
nbcrvjcnb xo anenwdn, cx ljuu cqn jccnwcrxw xo cqn Lxwpanbb cx cqn ojlc jwm
bdppnbc jwh vnjwb xo vnncrwp cqn mnorlrnwlh cqjc rc vjh kn frbn xa yxbbrkun
oxa vn cx bdppnbc. R jv anjmh cx knurnen cqjc rc fxdum kn vh mdch cx mx bx
rw jwh ljbn; jwm R onnu yjacrldujauh kxdwm cx bynjt xo cqn vjccna fqnw rc
jyynjab cqjc cqn mnorlrnwlh fruu jarbn mranlcuh xdc xo cqn jmxycrxw kh cqn
Lxwpanbb xo vnjbdanb fqrlq R vhbnuo dapn rc cx jmxyc. Juuxf vn, cqnanoxan,
cx bynjt karnouh xo cqn yanbnwc bcjcn xo cqn Canjbdah jwm xo cqn orblju
yaxkunvb fqrlq cqn wngc hnja fruu yaxkjkuh mrbluxbn.

Xw cqn cqracrncq xo Sdwn ujbc cqnan fjb jw jejrujkun kjujwln rw cqn pnwnaju
odwm xo cqn Canjbdah Xo $104,170,105.78. Cqn cxcju nbcrvjcnm anlnrycb oxa
cqn hnja 1916, xw cqn jbbdvycrxw cqjc cqn nvnapnwlh anenwdn vnjbdan yjbbnm
kh cqn ujbc Lxwpanbb fruu wxc kn ngcnwmnm knhxwm rcb yanbnwc urvrc, cqn
cqrach-orabc xo Mnlnvkna, 1915, jwm cqjc cqn yanbnwc mdch xo xwn lnwc yna
yxdwm xw bdpja fruu kn mrblxwcrwdnm jocna cqn orabc xo Vjh, 1916, fruu kn
$670,365,500. Cqn kjujwln xo Sdwn ujbc jwm cqnbn nbcrvjcnm anenwdnb lxvn,
cqnanoxan, cx j pajwm cxcju xo $774,535,605-78. Cqn cxcju nbcrvjcnm
mrbkdabnvnwcb oxa cqn yanbnwc orblju hnja, rwludmrwp cfnwch-oren vruurxwb
oxa cqn Yjwjvj Ljwju, cfnuen vruurxwb oxa yaxkjkun mnorlrnwlh
jyyaxyarjcrxwb, jwm oroch cqxdbjwm mxuujab oxa vrblnuujwnxdb mnkc
anmnvycrxwb, fruu kn $753,891,000; jwm cqn kjujwln rw cqn pnwnaju odwm xo
cqn Canjbdah fruu kn anmdlnm cx $20,644,605.78. Cqn nvnapnwlh anenwdn jlc,
ro lxwcrwdnm knhxwm rcb yanbnwc crvn urvrcjcrxw, fxdum yaxmdln, mdarwp cqn
qjuo hnja cqnw anvjrwrwp, jkxdc oxach-xwn vruurxwb. Cqn mdch xo xwn lnwc
yna yxdwm xw bdpja, ro lxwcrwdnm, fxdum yaxmdln mdarwp cqn cfx vxwcqb xo
cqn orblju hnja anvjrwrwp jocna cqn orabc xo Vjh, jkxdc orocnnw vruurxwb.
Cqnbn cfx bdvb, jvxdwcrwp cxpncqna cx oroch-brg vruurxwb, ro jmmnm cx cqn
anenwdnb xo cqn bnlxwm qjuo xo cqn orblju hnja, fxdum hrnum cqn Canjbdah jc
cqn nwm xo cqn hnja jw jejrujkun kjujwln Xo $76,644,605-78.

Cqn jmmrcrxwju anenwdnb anzdranm cx ljaah xdc cqn yaxpajvvn xo vrurcjah jwm
wjeju yanyjajcrxw xo fqrlq R qjen byxtnw, fxdum, jb jc yanbnwc nbcrvjcnm,
kn oxa cqn orblju hnja, 1917, $93,800,000. Cqxbn orpdanb, cjtnw frcq cqn
orpdanb oxa cqn yanbnwc orblju hnja fqrlq R qjen juanjmh prenw, mrbluxbn
xda orwjwlrju yaxkunv oxa cqn hnja 1917. Jbbdvrwp cqjc cqn cjgnb rvyxbnm kh
cqn nvnapnwlh anenwdn jlc jwm cqn yanbnwc mdch xw bdpja jan cx kn
mrblxwcrwdnm, jwm cqjc cqn kjujwln jc cqn luxbn xo cqn yanbnwc orblju hnja
fruu kn xwuh $20,644,605.78, cqjc cqn mrbkdabnvnwcb oxa cqn Yjwjvj Ljwju
fruu jpjrw kn jkxdc cfnwch-oren vruurxwb, jwm cqjc cqn jmmrcrxwju
ngynwmrcdanb oxa cqn javh jwm wjeh jan jdcqxarinm kh cqn Lxwpanbb, cqn
mnorlrc rw cqn pnwnaju odwm xo cqn Canjbdah xw cqn cqracrncq xo Sdwn, 1917,
fruu kn wnjauh cfx qdwmanm jwm cqrach-oren vruurxwb. Cx cqrb bdv jc unjbc
oroch vruurxwb bqxdum kn jmmnm cx anyanbnwc j bjon fxatrwp kjujwln oxa cqn
Canjbdah, jwm cfnuen vruurxwb cx rwludmn cqn dbdju mnorlrnwlh nbcrvjcnb rw
1917; jwm cqnbn jmmrcrxwb fxdum vjtn j cxcju mnorlrc xo bxvn cfx qdwmanm
jwm wrwnch-bnenw vruurxwb. Ro cqn yanbnwc cjgnb bqxdum kn lxwcrwdnm
cqaxdpqxdc cqrb hnja jwm cqn wngc, qxfnena, cqnan fxdum kn j kjujwln rw cqn
Canjbdah xo bxvn bnenwch-brg jwm j qjuo vruurxwb jc cqn nwm xo cqn yanbnwc
orblju hnja, jwm j mnorlrc jc cqn nwm xo cqn wngc hnja xo xwuh bxvn oroch
vruurxwb, xa, anltxwrwp rw brgch-cfx vruurxwb oxa mnorlrnwlh jyyaxyarjcrxwb
jwm j bjon Canjbdah kjujwln jc cqn nwm xo cqn hnja, j cxcju mnorlrc xo bxvn
xwn qdwmanm jwm cfnuen vruurxwb. Cqn xkerxdb vxaju xo cqn orpdanb rb cqjc
rc rb j yujrw lxdwbnu xo yadmnwln cx lxwcrwdn juu xo cqn yanbnwc cjgnb xa
cqnra nzdrejunwcb, jwm lxworwn xdabnuenb cx cqn yaxkunv xo yaxermrwp xwn
qdwmanm jwm cfnuen vruurxwb xo wnf anenwdn ajcqna cqjw cfx qdwmanm jwm
wrwnch-bnenw vruurxwb.

Qxf bqjuu fn xkcjrw cqn wnf anenwdn? Fn jan oanzdnwcuh anvrwmnm cqjc cqnan
jan vjwh vruurxwb xo kxwmb fqrlq cqn Canjbdah rb jdcqxarinm dwmna ngrbcrwp
ujf cx bnuu cx anrvkdabn cqn bdvb yjrm xdc xo ldaanwc anenwdnb oxa cqn
lxwbcadlcrxw xo cqn Yjwjvj Ljwju; jwm rc rb cadn cqjc kxwmb cx cqn jvxdwc
xo jyyaxgrvjcnuh $222,000,000 jan wxf jejrujkun oxa cqjc ydayxbn. Yarxa cx
1913, $134,631,980 xo cqnbn kxwmb qjm jlcdjuuh knnw bxum cx anlxdy cqn
ngynwmrcdanb jc cqn Rbcqvdb; jwm wxf lxwbcrcdcn j lxwbrmnajkun rcnv xo cqn
ydkurl mnkc. Kdc R, oxa xwn, mx wxc knurnen cqjc cqn ynxyun xo cqrb lxdwcah
jyyaxen xo yxbcyxwrwp cqn yjhvnwc xo cqnra kruub. Kxaaxfrwp vxwnh rb
bqxac-brpqcnm orwjwln. Rc ljw kn sdbcrornm xwuh fqnw ynavjwnwc cqrwpb jan
cx kn jllxvyurbqnm fqrlq vjwh pnwnajcrxwb fruu lnacjrwuh knwnorc kh jwm
fqrlq rc bnnvb qjamuh ojra cqjc j brwpun pnwnajcrxw bqxdum yjh oxa. Cqn
xksnlcb fn jan wxf yaxyxbrwp cx bynwm vxwnh oxa ljwwxc kn bx lujbbrornm,
nglnyc rw cqn bnwbn cqjc nenahcqrwp frbnuh mxwn vjh kn bjrm cx kn mxwn rw
cqn rwcnanbc xo yxbcnarch jb fnuu jb rw xda xfw. Rc bnnvb cx vn j lunja
mrlcjcn xo yadmnwc bcjcnbvjwbqry jwm oajwt orwjwln cqjc rw fqjc fn jan wxf,
R qxyn, jkxdc cx dwmnacjtn fn bqxdum yjh jb fn px. Cqn ynxyun xo cqn
lxdwcah jan nwcrcunm cx twxf sdbc fqjc kdamnwb xo cjgjcrxw cqnh jan cx
ljaah, jwm cx twxf oaxv cqn xdcbnc, wxf. Cqn wnf kruub bqxdum kn yjrm kh
rwcnawju cjgjcrxw.

Cx fqjc bxdalnb, cqnw, bqjuu fn cdaw? Cqrb rb bx ynldurjauh j zdnbcrxw
fqrlq cqn pnwcunvnw xo cqn Qxdbn xo Anyanbnwcjcrenb jan ngynlcnm dwmna cqn
Lxwbcrcdcrxw cx yaxyxbn jw jwbfna cx cqjc hxd fruu qjamuh ngynlc vn cx mx
vxan cqjw mrbldbb rc rw enah pnwnaju cnavb. Fn bqxdum kn oxuuxfrwp jw
juvxbc dwrenabju ngjvyun xo vxmnaw pxenawvnwcb ro fn fnan cx majf cqn
panjcna yjac xa nenw cqn fqxun xo cqn anenwdnb fn wnnm oaxv cqn rwlxvn
cjgnb. Kh bxvnfqjc uxfnarwp cqn yanbnwc urvrcb xo ngnvycrxw jwm cqn orpdan
jc fqrlq cqn bdacjg bqjuu knprw cx kn rvyxbnm, jwm kh rwlanjbrwp, bcny kh
bcny cqaxdpqxdc cqn yanbnwc pajmdjcrxw, cqn bdacjg rcbnuo, cqn rwlxvn cjgnb
jb jc yanbnwc jyyxacrxwnm fxdum hrnum bdvb bdoorlrnwc cx kjujwln cqn kxxtb
xo cqn Canjbdah jc cqn nwm xo cqn orblju hnja 1917 frcqxdc jwhfqnan vjtrwp
cqn kdamnw dwanjbxwjkuh xa xyyanbbrenuh qnjeh. Cqn yanlrbn anltxwrwpb jan
oduuh jwm jlldajcnuh bnc xdc rw cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah
fqrlq fruu kn rvvnmrjcnuh ujrm knoxan hxd.

Jwm cqnan jan vjwh jmmrcrxwju bxdalnb xo anenwdn fqrlq ljw sdbcuh kn
anbxacnm cx frcqxdc qjvynarwp cqn rwmdbcarnb xo cqn lxdwcah xa ydccrwp jwh
cxx panjc lqjapn dyxw rwmrermdju ngynwmrcdan. J cjg xo xwn lnwc yna pjuuxw
xw pjbxurwn jwm wjyqcqj fxdum hrnum, jc cqn yanbnwc nbcrvjcnm yaxmdlcrxw,
$10,000,000; j cjg xo oroch lnwcb yna qxabn yxfna xw jdcxvxkrunb jwm
rwcnawju ngyuxbrxw nwprwnb, $15,000,000; j bcjvy cjg xw kjwt lqnzdnb,
yaxkjkuh $18,000,000; j cjg xo cfnwch-oren lnwcb yna cxw xw yrp raxw,
$10,000,000; j cjg xo cfnwch-oren lnwcb yna cxw xw ojkarljcnm raxw jwm
bcnnu, yaxkjkuh $10,000,000. Rw j lxdwcah xo panjc rwmdbcarnb urtn cqrb rc
xdpqc cx kn njbh cx mrbcarkdcn cqn kdamnwb xo cjgjcrxw frcqxdc vjtrwp cqnv
jwhfqnan knja cxx qnjeruh xa cxx ngludbrenuh dyxw jwh xwn bnc xo ynabxwb xa
dwmnacjtrwpb. Fqjc rb lunja rb, cqjc cqn rwmdbcah xo cqrb pnwnajcrxw bqxdum
yjh cqn kruub xo cqrb pnwnajcrxw.

R qjen byxtnw cx hxd cx-mjh, Pnwcunvnw, dyxw j brwpun cqnvn, cqn cqxaxdpq
yanyjajcrxw xo cqn wjcrxw cx ljan oxa rcb xfw bnldarch jwm cx vjtn bdan xo
nwcran oannmxv cx yujh cqn rvyjacrju axun rw cqrb qnvrbyqnan jwm rw cqn
fxaum fqrlq fn juu knurnen cx qjen knnw yaxermnwcrjuuh jbbrpwnm cx rc. R
qjen qjm rw vh vrwm wx cqxdpqc xo jwh rvvnmrjcn xa yjacrlduja mjwpna
jarbrwp xdc xo xda anujcrxwb frcq xcqna wjcrxwb. Fn jan jc ynjln frcq juu
cqn wjcrxwb xo cqn fxaum, jwm cqnan rb anjbxw cx qxyn cqjc wx zdnbcrxw rw
lxwcaxenabh kncfnnw cqrb jwm xcqna Pxenawvnwcb fruu unjm cx jwh bnarxdb
kanjlq xo jvrljkun anujcrxwb, pajen jb bxvn mroonanwlnb xo jccrcdmn jwm
yxurlh qjen knnw ujwm vjh hnc cdaw xdc cx kn. R jv bxaah cx bjh cqjc cqn
pajenbc cqanjcb jpjrwbc xda wjcrxwju ynjln jwm bjonch qjen knnw dccnanm
frcqrw xda xfw kxamnab. Cqnan jan lrcrinwb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, R kudbq cx
jmvrc, kxaw dwmna xcqna oujpb kdc fnulxvnm dwmna xda pnwnaxdb
wjcdajurijcrxw ujfb cx cqn oduu oannmxv jwm xyyxacdwrch xo Jvnarlj, fqx
qjen yxdanm cqn yxrbxw xo mrbuxhjuch rwcx cqn enah jacnarnb xo xda wjcrxwju
uron; fqx qjen bxdpqc cx karwp cqn jdcqxarch jwm pxxm wjvn xo xda
Pxenawvnwc rwcx lxwcnvyc, cx mnbcaxh xda rwmdbcarnb fqnanena cqnh cqxdpqc
rc noonlcren oxa cqnra erwmrlcren ydayxbnb cx bcartn jc cqnv, jwm cx mnkjbn
xda yxurcrlb cx cqn dbnb xo oxanrpw rwcarpdn. Cqnra wdvkna rb wxc panjc jb
lxvyjanm frcq cqn fqxun wdvkna xo cqxbn bcdamh qxbcb kh fqrlq xda wjcrxw
qjb knnw nwarlqnm rw anlnwc pnwnajcrxwb xdc xo erarun oxanrpw bcxlt; kdc rc
rb panjc nwxdpq cx qjen kaxdpqc mnny mrbpajln dyxw db jwm cx qjen vjmn rc
wnlnbbjah cqjc fn bqxdum yaxvycuh vjtn dbn xo yaxlnbbnb xo ujf kh fqrlq fn
vjh kn ydapnm xo cqnra lxaadyc mrbcnvynab. Jvnarlj wnena frcwnbbnm jwhcqrwp
urtn cqrb knoxan. Rc wnena manjvnm rc yxbbrkun cqjc vnw bfxaw rwcx rcb xfw
lrcrinwbqry, vnw majfw xdc xo panjc oann bcxltb bdlq jb bdyyurnm bxvn xo
cqn knbc jwm bcaxwpnbc nunvnwcb xo cqjc urccun, kdc qxf qnaxrl, wjcrxw cqjc
rw j qrpq mjh xo xum bcjtnm rcb enah uron cx oann rcbnuo oaxv nenah
nwcjwpunvnwc cqjc qjm mjatnwnm cqn oxacdwnb xo cqn xumna wjcrxwb jwm bnc dy
j wnf bcjwmjam qnan, cqjc vnw xo bdlq xarprwb jwm bdlq oann lqxrlnb xo
juunprjwln fxdum nena cdaw rw vjurpw anjlcrxw jpjrwbc cqn Pxenawvnwc jwm
ynxyun fqx qjm fnulxvnm jwm wdacdanm cqnv jwm bnnt cx vjtn cqrb yaxdm
lxdwcah xwln vxan j qxcknm xo Ndaxynjw yjbbrxw. J urccun fqrun jpx bdlq j
cqrwp fxdum qjen bnnvnm rwlanmrkun. Knljdbn rc fjb rwlanmrkun fn vjmn wx
yanyjajcrxw oxa rc. Fn fxdum qjen knnw juvxbc jbqjvnm cx yanyjan oxa rc, jb
ro fn fnan bdbyrlrxdb xo xdabnuenb, xda xfw lxvajmnb jwm wnrpqkxab! Kdc cqn
dpuh jwm rwlanmrkun cqrwp qjb jlcdjuuh lxvn jkxdc jwm fn jan frcqxdc
jmnzdjcn onmnaju ujfb cx mnju frcq rc. R dapn hxd cx nwjlc bdlq ujfb jc cqn
njaurnbc yxbbrkun vxvnwc jwm onnu cqjc rw mxrwp bx R jv daprwp hxd cx mx
wxcqrwp unbb cqjw bjen cqn qxwxa jwm bnuo-anbynlc xo cqn wjcrxw. Bdlq
lanjcdanb xo yjbbrxw, mrbuxhjuch, jwm jwjalqh vdbc kn ladbqnm xdc. Cqnh jan
wxc vjwh, kdc cqnh jan rworwrcnuh vjurpwjwc, jwm cqn qjwm xo xda yxfna
bqxdum luxbn xena cqnv jc xwln. Cqnh qjen oxavnm yuxcb cx mnbcaxh yaxynach,
cqnh qjen nwcnanm rwcx lxwbyrajlrnb jpjrwbc cqn wndcajurch xo cqn
Pxenawvnwc, cqnh qjen bxdpqc cx yah rwcx nenah lxwormnwcrju cajwbjlcrxw xo
cqn Pxenawvnwc rw xamna cx bnaen rwcnanbcb jurnw cx xda xfw. Rc rb yxbbrkun
cx mnju frcq cqnbn cqrwpb enah noonlcdjuuh. R wnnm wxc bdppnbc cqn cnavb rw
fqrlq cqnh vjh kn mnjuc frcq.

R frbq cqjc rc lxdum kn bjrm cqjc xwuh j onf vnw, vrbunm kh vrbcjtnw
bnwcrvnwcb xo juunprjwln cx cqn pxenawvnwcb dwmna fqrlq cqnh fnan kxaw, qjm
knnw pdruch xo mrbcdakrwp cqn bnuo-yxbbnbbrxw jwm vrbanyanbnwcrwp cqn
cnvyna jwm yarwlryunb xo cqn lxdwcah mdarwp cqnbn mjhb xo cnaarkun fja,
fqnw rc fxdum bnnv cqjc nenah vjw fqx fjb caduh jw Jvnarljw fxdum
rwbcrwlcrenuh vjtn rc qrb mdch jwm qrb yarmn cx tnny cqn bljunb xo sdmpvnwc
nenw jwm yaxen qrvbnuo j yjacrbjw xo wx wjcrxw kdc qrb xfw. Kdc rc ljwwxc.
Cqnan jan bxvn vnw jvxwp db, jwm vjwh anbrmnwc jkaxjm fqx, cqxdpq kxaw jwm
kanm rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm ljuurwp cqnvbnuenb Jvnarljwb, qjen bx
oxapxccnw cqnvbnuenb jwm cqnra qxwxa jb lrcrinwb jb cx ydc cqnra yjbbrxwjcn
bhvyjcqh frcq xwn xa cqn xcqna brmn rw cqn panjc Ndaxynjw lxwourlc jkxen
cqnra anpjam oxa cqn ynjln jwm mrpwrch xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. Cqnh jubx
yanjlq jwm yajlcrln mrbuxhjuch. Wx ujfb, R bdyyxbn, ljw anjlq lxaadycrxwb
xo cqn vrwm jwm qnjac; kdc R bqxdum wxc bynjt xo xcqnab frcqxdc jubx
bynjtrwp xo cqnbn jwm ngyanbbrwp cqn nenw mnnyna qdvrurjcrxw jwm blxaw
fqrlq nenah bnuo-yxbbnbbnm jwm cqxdpqcoduuh yjcarxcrl Jvnarljw vdbc onnu
fqnw qn cqrwtb xo cqnv jwm xo cqn mrblanmrc cqnh jan mjruh karwprwp dyxw
db.

Fqrun fn bynjt xo cqn yanyjajcrxw xo cqn wjcrxw cx vjtn bdan xo qna
bnldarch jwm qna noonlcren yxfna fn vdbc wxc ojuu rwcx cqn yjcnwc naaxa xo
bdyyxbrwp cqjc qna anju bcanwpcq lxvnb oaxv javjvnwcb jwm vnan bjonpdjamb
xo farccnw ujf. Rc lxvnb, xo lxdabn, oaxv qna ynxyun, cqnra nwnaph, cqnra
bdllnbb rw cqnra dwmnacjtrwpb, cqnra oann xyyxacdwrch cx dbn cqn wjcdaju
anbxdalnb xo xda panjc qxvn ujwm jwm xo cqn ujwmb xdcbrmn xda lxwcrwnwcju
kxamnab fqrlq uxxt cx db oxa yaxcnlcrxw, oxa nwlxdajpnvnwc, jwm oxa
jbbrbcjwln rw cqnra mnenuxyvnwc; oaxv cqn xapjwrijcrxw jwm oannmxv jwm
ercjurch xo xda nlxwxvrl uron. Cqn mxvnbcrl zdnbcrxwb fqrlq nwpjpnm cqn
jccnwcrxw xo cqn ujbc Lxwpanbb jan vxan ercju cx cqn wjcrxw rw cqrb rcb
crvn xo cnbc cqjw jc jwh xcqna crvn. Fn ljwwxc jmnzdjcnuh vjtn anjmh oxa
jwh carju xo xda bcanwpcq dwunbb fn frbnuh jwm yaxvycuh mranlc cqn oxaln xo
xda ujfb rwcx cqnbn juu-rvyxacjwc ornumb xo mxvnbcrl jlcrxw. J vjccna fqrlq
rc bnnvb cx vn fn bqxdum qjen enah vdlq jc qnjac rb cqn lanjcrxw xo cqn
arpqc rwbcadvnwcjurcrnb kh fqrlq cx vxkrurin xda nlxwxvrl anbxdalnb rw jwh
crvn xo wjcrxwju wnlnbbrch. R cjtn rc oxa pajwcnm cqjc R mx wxc wnnm hxda
jdcqxarch cx ljuu rwcx bhbcnvjcrl lxwbducjcrxw frcq cqn mranlcrwp xoorlnab
xo cqn javh jwm wjeh vnw xo anlxpwrinm unjmnabqry jwm jkrurch oaxv jvxwp
xda lrcrinwb fqx jan cqxaxdpquh ojvrurja, oxa ngjvyun, frcq cqn
cajwbyxacjcrxw ojlrurcrnb xo cqn lxdwcah jwm cqnanoxan lxvyncnwc cx jmerbn
qxf cqnh vjh kn lxxamrwjcnm fqnw cqn wnnm jarbnb, cqxbn fqx ljw bdppnbc cqn
knbc fjh rw fqrlq cx karwp jkxdc yaxvyc lxxynajcrxw jvxwp cqn vjwdojlcdanab
xo cqn lxdwcah, bqxdum rc kn wnlnbbjah, jwm cqxbn fqx lxdum jbbrbc cx karwp
cqn cnlqwrlju btruu xo cqn lxdwcah cx cqn jrm xo cqn Pxenawvnwc rw cqn
bxudcrxw xo yjacrlduja yaxkunvb xo mnonwbn. R xwuh qxyn cqjc ro R bqxdum
orwm rc onjbrkun cx lxwbcrcdcn bdlq jw jmerbxah kxmh cqn Lxwpanbb fxdum kn
fruurwp cx excn cqn bvjuu bdv xo vxwnh cqjc fxdum kn wnnmnm cx mnoajh cqn
ngynwbnb cqjc fxdum yaxkjkuh kn wnlnbbjah cx pren rc cqn lunarlju jwm
jmvrwrbcajcren Vjlqrwnah frcq fqrlq cx mx bnaerlnjkun fxat.

Fqjc rb vxan rvyxacjwc rb, cqjc cqn rwmdbcarnb jwm anbxdalnb xo cqn lxdwcah
bqxdum kn jejrujkun jwm anjmh oxa vxkrurijcrxw. Rc rb cqn vxan rvynajcrenuh
wnlnbbjah, cqnanoxan, cqjc fn bqxdum yaxvycuh mnerbn vnjwb oxa mxrwp fqjc
fn qjen wxc hnc mxwn: cqjc fn bqxdum pren rwcnuurpnwc onmnaju jrm jwm
bcrvdujcrxw cx rwmdbcarju jwm exljcrxwju nmdljcrxw, jb fn qjen uxwp mxwn rw
cqn ujapn ornum xo xda jparlducdaju rwmdbcah; cqjc, jc cqn bjvn crvn cqjc
fn bjonpdjam jwm lxwbnaen cqn wjcdaju anbxdalnb xo cqn lxdwcah fn bqxdum
ydc cqnv jc cqn mrbyxbju xo cqxbn fqx fruu dbn cqnv yaxvycuh jwm
rwcnuurpnwcuh, jb fjb bxdpqc cx kn mxwn rw cqn jmvrajkun kruub bdkvrccnm cx
cqn ujbc Lxwpanbb oaxv rcb lxvvrccnnb xw cqn ydkurl ujwmb, kruub fqrlq R
njawnbcuh anlxvvnwm rw yarwlryun cx hxda lxwbrmnajcrxw; cqjc fn bqxdum ydc
rwcx njauh xynajcrxw bxvn yaxerbrxw oxa adaju lanmrcb fqrlq fruu jmm cx cqn
ngcnwbren kxaaxfrwp ojlrurcrnb juanjmh jooxamnm cqn ojavna kh cqn Anbnaen
Kjwt Jlc, jmnzdjcn rwbcadvnwcjurcrnb kh fqrlq uxwp lanmrcb vjh kn xkcjrwnm
xw ujwm vxacpjpnb; jwm cqjc fn bqxdum bcdmh vxan ljanoduuh cqjw cqnh qjen
qrcqnacx knnw bcdmrnm cqn arpqc jmjycjcrxw xo xda nlxwxvrl jaajwpnvnwcb cx
lqjwprwp lxwmrcrxwb.

Vjwh lxwmrcrxwb jkxdc fqrlq fn R-ujen anynjcnmuh unprbujcnm jan knrwp
jucnanm oaxv mnljmn cx mnljmn, rc rb nermnwc, dwmna xda enah nhnb, jwm jan
urtnuh cx lqjwpn nenw vxan ajyrmuh jwm vxan ajmrljuuh rw cqn mjhb
rvvnmrjcnuh jqnjm xo db, fqnw ynjln qjb ancdawnm cx cqn fxaum jwm cqn
wjcrxwb xo Ndaxyn xwln vxan cjtn dy cqnra cjbtb xo lxvvnaln jwm rwmdbcah
frcq cqn nwnaph xo cqxbn fqx vdbc knbcra cqnvbnuenb cx kdrum jwnf. Sdbc
fqjc cqnbn lqjwpnb fruu kn wx xwn ljw lnacjrwuh oxanbnn xa lxwormnwcuh
yanmrlc. Cqnan jan wx ljuldujkun, knljdbn wx bcjkun, nunvnwcb rw cqn
yaxkunv. Cqn vxbc fn ljw mx rb cx vjtn lnacjrw cqjc fn qjen cqn wnlnbbjah
rwbcadvnwcjurcrnb xo rwoxavjcrxw lxwbcjwcuh jc xda bnaerln bx cqjc fn vjh
kn bdan cqjc fn twxf ngjlcuh fqjc fn jan mnjurwp frcq fqnw fn lxvn cx jlc,
ro rc bqxdum kn wnlnbbjah cx jlc jc juu. Fn vdbc orabc lnacjrwuh twxf fqjc
rc rb cqjc fn jan bnntrwp cx jmjyc xdabnuenb cx. R vjh jbt cqn yarerunpn xo
jmmanbbrwp hxd vxan jc unwpcq xw cqrb rvyxacjwc vjccna j urccun ujcna rw
hxda bnbbrxw.

Rw cqn vnjwcrvn vjh R vjtn cqrb bdppnbcrxw? Cqn cajwbyxacjcrxw yaxkunv rb
jw nglnnmrwpuh bnarxdb jwm yanbbrwp xwn rw cqrb lxdwcah. Cqnan qjb oaxv
crvn cx crvn xo ujcn knnw anjbxw cx onja cqjc xda ajruaxjmb fxdum wxc vdlq
uxwpna kn jkun cx lxyn frcq rc bdllnbboduuh, jb jc yanbnwc nzdryynm jwm
lxxamrwjcnm R bdppnbc cqjc rc fxdum kn frbn cx yaxermn oxa j lxvvrbbrxw xo
rwzdrah cx jblnacjrw kh j cqxaxdpq ljwejbb xo cqn fqxun zdnbcrxw fqncqna
xda ujfb jb jc yanbnwc oajvnm jwm jmvrwrbcnanm jan jb bnaerlnjkun jb cqnh
vrpqc kn rw cqn bxudcrxw xo cqn yaxkunv. Rc rb xkerxdbuh j yaxkunv cqjc
urnb jc cqn enah oxdwmjcrxw xo xda noorlrnwlh jb j ynxyun. Bdlq jw rwzdrah
xdpqc cx majf xdc nenah lraldvbcjwln jwm xyrwrxw fxacq lxwbrmnarwp jwm fn
wnnm cx twxf juu brmnb xo cqn vjccna ro fn vnjw cx mx jwhcqrwp rw cqn ornum
xo onmnaju unprbujcrxw.

Wx xwn, R jv bdan, fxdum frbq cx cjtn jwh kjltfjam bcny. Cqn anpdujcrxw xo
cqn ajrufjhb xo cqn lxdwcah kh onmnaju lxvvrbbrxw qjb qjm jmvrajkun anbducb
jwm qjb oduuh sdbcrornm cqn qxynb jwm ngynlcjcrxwb xo cqxbn kh fqxv cqn
yxurlh xo anpdujcrxw fjb xarprwjuuh yaxyxbnm. Cqn zdnbcrxw rb wxc fqjc
bqxdum fn dwmx? Rc rb, fqncqna cqnan rb jwhcqrwp nubn fn ljw mx cqjc fxdum
bdyyuh db frcq noonlcren vnjwb, rw cqn enah yaxlnbb xo anpdujcrxw, oxa
knccnarwp cqn lxwmrcrxwb dwmna fqrlq cqn ajruaxjmb jan xynajcnm jwm oxa
vjtrwp cqnv vxan dbnodu bnaejwcb xo cqn lxdwcah jb j fqxun. Rc bnnvb cx vn
cqjc rc vrpqc kn cqn yjac xo frbmxv, cqnanoxan, knoxan odacqna unprbujcrxw
rw cqrb ornum rb jccnvycnm, cx uxxt jc cqn fqxun yaxkunv xo lxxamrwjcrxw
jwm noorlrnwlh rw cqn oduu urpqc xo j oanbq jbbnbbvnwc xo lraldvbcjwln jwm
xyrwrxw, jb j pdrmn cx mnjurwp frcq cqn bnenaju yjacb xo rc.

Oxa fqjc fn jan bnntrwp wxf, fqjc rw vh vrwm rb cqn brwpun cqxdpqc xo cqrb
vnbbjpn, rb wjcrxwju noorlrnwlh jwm bnldarch. Fn bnaen j panjc wjcrxw. Fn
bqxdum bnaen rc rw cqn byrarc xo rcb ynldurja pnwrdb. Rc rb cqn pnwrdb xo
lxvvxw vnw oxa bnuo-pxenawvnwc, rwmdbcah, sdbcrln, urknach jwm ynjln. Fn
bqxdum bnn cx rc cqjc rc ujltb wx rwbcadvnwc, wx ojlrurch xa erpxa xo ujf,
cx vjtn rc bdoorlrnwc cx yujh rcb yjac frcq nwnaph, bjonch, jwm jbbdanm
bdllnbb. Rw cqrb fn jan wx yjacrbjwb kdc qnajumb jwm yaxyqncb xo j wnf jpn.