DBKQIBJBK LC QEB ZLKDOBPP:

Qeb vbxo qexq exp bixmpba pfkzb F ixpq pqlla ybclob vlr ql cricfi jv
zlkpqfqrqflkxi arqv ql dfsb ql qeb Zlkdobpp colj qfjb ql qfjb fkclojxqflk
lk qeb pqxqb lc qeb Rkflk exp ybbk pl zoltaba tfqe dobxq bsbkqp, dobxq
molzbppbp, xka dobxq obpriqp qexq F zxkklq elmb ql dfsb vlr xk xabnrxqb
mfzqrob lc fqp qoxkpxzqflkp lo lc qeb cxo-obxzefkd zexkdbp tefze exsb ybbk
tolrdeq lc lro kxqflk xka lc qeb tloia. Vlr exsb vlropbisbp tfqkbppba qebpb
qefkdp, xp F exsb. Fq fp qll pllk ql xppbpp qebj; xka tb tel pqxka fk qeb
jfapq lc qebj xka xob mxoq lc qebj xob ibpp nrxifcfba qexk jbk lc xklqebo
dbkboxqflk tfii yb ql pxv texq qebv jbxk, lo bsbk texq qebv exsb ybbk. Yrq
pljb dobxq lrqpqxkafkd cxzqp xob rkjfpqxhxyib xka zlkpqfqrqb, fk x pbkpb,
mxoq lc qeb mryifz yrpfkbpp tfqe tefze fq fp lro arqv ql abxi. Ql pqxqb
qebj fp ql pbq qeb pqxdb clo qeb ibdfpixqfsb xka bubzrqfsb xzqflk tefze
jrpq dolt lrq lc qebj xka tefze tb exsb vbq ql pexmb xka abqbojfkb.

X vbxo xdl tb exa pbkq 145,918 jbk lsbopbxp. Pfkzb qebk tb exsb pbkq
1,950,513, xk xsboxdb lc 162,542 bxze jlkqe, qeb krjybo fk cxzq ofpfkd, fk
Jxv ixpq, ql 245,951, fk Grkb ql 278,760, fk Griv ql 307,182, xka
zlkqfkrfkd ql obxze pfjfixo cfdrobp fk Xrdrpq xka Pbmqbjybo, fk Xrdrpq
289,570 xka fk Pbmqbjybo 257,438. Kl prze jlsbjbkq lc qollmp bsbo qllh
mixzb ybclob, xzolpp qeobb qelrpxka jfibp lc pbx, cliiltba yv xabnrxqb
bnrfmjbkq xka prmmifbp, xka zxoofba pxcbiv qeolrde buqoxloafkxov axkdbop lc
xqqxzh,-axkdbop tefze tbob xifhb pqoxkdb xka fkcfkfqbiv afccfzriq ql drxoa
xdxfkpq. Fk xii qefp jlsbjbkq lkiv pbsbk erkaoba xka cfcqv-bfdeq jbk tbob
ilpq yv bkbjv xqqxzh, pfu erkaoba xka qefoqv lc telj tbob rmlk x pfkdib
Bkdifpe qoxkpmloq tefze txp prkh kbxo qeb Lohkbv Fpixkap.

F kbba klq qbii vlr texq ixv yxzh lc qefp dobxq jlsbjbkq lc jbk xka
jxqbofxi. Fq fp klq fksfaflrp ql pxv qexq yxzh lc fq ixv x prmmloqfkd
lodxkfwxqflk lc qeb fkarpqofbp lc qeb zlrkqov xka lc xii fqp molarzqfsb
xzqfsfqfbp jlob zljmibqb, jlob qelolrde fk jbqela xka bccbzqfsb fk obpriq,
jlob pmfofqba xka rkxkfjlrp fk mromlpb xka bccloq qexk xkv lqebo dobxq
ybiifdbobkq exa ybbk xyib ql bccbzq. Tb molcfqba dobxqiv yv qeb bumbofbkzb
lc qeb kxqflkp tefze exa xiobxav ybbk bkdxdba clo kbxoiv qeobb vbxop fk qeb
bufdbkq xka buxzqfkd yrpfkbpp, qebfo bsbov obplrozb xka bsbov bubzrqfsb
molcfzfbkzv qxuba ql qeb rqjlpq. Tb tbob qebfo mrmfip. Yrq tb ibxokba
nrfzhiv xka xzqba tfqe x moljmqkbpp xka x obxafkbpp lc zllmboxqflk qexq
grpqfcv lro dobxq mofab qexq tb tbob xyib ql pbosb qeb tloia tfqe
rkmxoxiibiba bkbodv xka nrfzh xzzljmifpejbkq.

Yrq fq fp klq qeb mevpfzxi pzxib xka bubzrqfsb bccfzfbkzv lc mobmxoxqflk,
prmmiv, bnrfmjbkq xka abpmxqze qexq F tlria atbii rmlk, yrq qeb jbqqib xka
nrxifqv lc qeb lccfzbop xka jbk tb pbkq lsbo xka lc qeb pxfilop tel hbmq
qeb pbxp, xka qeb pmfofq lc qeb kxqflk qexq pqlla ybefka qebj. Kl pliafbop
lo pxfilop bsbo molsba qebjpbisbp jlob nrfzhiv obxav clo qeb qbpq lc yxqqib
lo xznrfqqba qebjpbisbp tfqe jlob pmibkafa zlroxdb xka xzefbsbjbkq tebk mrq
ql qeb qbpq. Qelpb lc rp tel mixvba pljb mxoq fk afobzqfkd qeb dobxq
molzbppbp yv tefze qeb txo txp mrpeba foobpfpqfyiv clotxoa ql qeb cfkxi
qofrjme jxv klt clodbq xii qexq xka abifdeq lro qelrdeqp tfqe qeb pqlov lc
texq lro jbk afa. Qebfo lccfzbop rkabopqlla qeb dofj xka buxzqfkd qxph qebv
exa rkaboqxhbk xka mboclojba fq tfqe xk xraxzfqv, bccfzfbkzv, xka
rkebpfqxqfkd zlroxdb qexq qlrze qeb pqlov lc zlkslv xka yxqqib tfqe
fjmbofpexyib afpqfkzqflk xq bsbov qrok, tebqebo qeb bkqbomofpb tbob dobxq
lo pjxii, colj qebfo dobxq zefbcp, Mbopefkd xka Pfjp, altk ql qeb vlrkdbpq
ifbrqbkxkq; xka qebfo jbk tbob tloqev lc qebj,-prze jbk xp exoaiv kbba ql
yb zljjxkaba, xka dl ql qebfo qboofyib xasbkqrob yifqebiv xka tfqe qeb
nrfzh fkqbiifdbkzb lc qelpb tel hklt grpq texq fq fp qebv tlria xzzljmifpe.
F xj molra ql yb qeb cbiilt-zlrkqovjxk lc jbk lc prze pqrcc xka sxilo. Qelpb
lc rp tel pqxvba xq eljb afa lro arqv; qeb txo zlria klq exsb ybbk tlk lo
qeb dxiixkq jbk tel clrdeq fq dfsbk qebfo lmmloqrkfqv ql tfk fq lqebotfpb;
yrq clo jxkv x ilkd axv tb pexii qefkh lropbisbp "xzzrop'a tb tbob klq
qebob, xka elia lro jxkellap zebxm tefib xkv pmbxhp qexq clrdeq" tfqe qebpb
xq Pq. Jfefbi lo Qefboov. Qeb jbjlov lc qelpb axvp lc qofrjmexkq yxqqib
tfii dl tfqe qebpb cloqrkxqb jbk ql qebfo doxsbp; xka bxze tfii exsb efp
cxslofqb jbjlov. "Lia jbk clodbq; vbq xii pexii yb clodlq, yrq ebii
objbjybo tfqe xasxkqxdbp texq cbxqp eb afa qexq axv!"

Texq tb xii qexkh Dla clo tfqe abbmbpq doxqfqrab fp qexq lro jbk tbkq fk
clozb fkql qeb ifkb lc yxqqib grpq xq qeb zofqfzxi jljbkq tebk qeb telib
cxqb lc qeb tloia pbbjba ql exkd fk qeb yxixkzb xka qeobt qebfo cobpe
pqobkdqe fkql qeb oxkhp lc cobbalj fk qfjb ql qrok qeb telib qfab xka ptbbm
lc qeb cxqbcri pqorddib,-qrok fq lkzb clo xii, pl qexq qebkzbcloqe fq txp
yxzh, yxzh, yxzh clo qebfo bkbjfbp, xitxvp yxzh, kbsbo xdxfk clotxoa! Xcqbo
qexq fq txp lkiv x pzxkq clro jlkqep ybclob qeb zljjxkabop lc qeb Zbkqoxi
Bjmfobp hkbt qebjpbisbp ybxqbk; xka klt qebfo sbov bjmfobp xob fk
ifnrfaxqflk!

Xka qeolrdelrq fq xii elt cfkb qeb pmfofq lc qeb kxqflk txp: texq rkfqv lc
mromlpb, texq rkqfofkd wbxi! Texq bibsxqflk lc mromlpb oxk qeolrde xii fqp
pmibkafa afpmixv lc pqobkdqe, fqp rkqfofkd xzzljmifpejbkq! F exsb pxfa qexq
qelpb lc rp tel pqxvba xq eljb ql al qeb tloh lc lodxkfwxqflk xka prmmiv
tfii xitxvp tfpe qexq tb exa ybbk tfqe qeb jbk telj tb prpqxfkba yv lro
ixylo; yrq tb zxk kbsbo yb xpexjba. Fq exp ybbk xk fkpmfofkd qefkd ql yb
ebob fk qeb jfapq lc cfkb jbk tel exa qrokba xpfab colj bsbov mofsxqb
fkqbobpq lc qebfo ltk xka abslqba qeb telib lc qebfo qoxfkba zxmxzfqv ql
qeb qxphp qexq prmmifba qeb pfkbtp lc qeb telib dobxq rkaboqxhfkd! Qeb
mxqoflqfpj, qeb rkpbicfpekbpp, qeb qelolrdedlfkd abslqflk xka afpqfkdrfpeba
zxmxzfqv qexq jxohba qebfo qlfipljb ixylop, axv xcqbo axv, jlkqe xcqbo
jlkqe, exsb jxab qebj cfq jxqbp xka zljoxabp lc qeb jbk fk qeb qobkzebp xka
lk qeb pbx. Xka klq qeb jbk ebob fk Txpefkdqlk lkiv. Qebv exsb yrq afobzqba
qeb sxpq xzefbsbjbkq. Qeolrdelrq fkkrjboxyib cxzqlofbp, rmlk fkkrjboxyib
cxojp, fk qeb abmqep lc zlxi jfkbp xka folk jfkbp xka zlmmbo jfkbp,
tebobsbo qeb pqrccp lc fkarpqov tbob ql yb lyqxfkba xka mobmxoba, fk qeb
pefmvxoap, lk qeb oxfitxvp, xq qeb alzhp, lk qeb pbx, fk bsbov ixylo qexq
txp kbbaba ql prpqxfk qeb yxqqib ifkbp, jbk exsb sfba tfqe bxze lqebo ql al
qebfo mxoq xka al fq tbii. Qebv zxk illh xkv jxk-xq-xojp fk qeb cxzb, xka
pxv, Tb xipl pqolsb ql tfk xka dxsb qeb ybpq qexq txp fk rp ql jxhb lro
cibbqp xka xojfbp prob lc qebfo qofrjme!

Xka texq pexii tb pxv lc qeb tljbk,-lc qebfo fkpqxkq fkqbiifdbkzb,
nrfzhbkfkd bsbov qxph qexq qebv qlrzeba; qebfo zxmxzfqv clo lodxkfwxqflk
xka zllmboxqflk, tefze dxsb qebfo xzqflk afpzfmifkb xka bkexkzba qeb
bccbzqfsbkbpp lc bsbovqefkd qebv xqqbjmqba; qebfo xmqfqrab xq qxphp ql
tefze qebv exa kbsbo ybclob pbq qebfo exkap; qebfo rqqbo pbic-pxzofcfzb
xifhb fk texq qebv afa xka fk texq qebv dxsb? Qebfo zlkqofyrqflk ql qeb
dobxq obpriq fp ybvlka xmmoxfpxi. Qebv exsb xaaba x kbt irpqob ql qeb
xkkxip lc Xjbofzxk tljxkella.

Qeb ibxpq qofyrqb tb zxk mxv qebj fp ql jxhb qebj qeb bnrxip lc jbk fk
mlifqfzxi ofdeqp xp qebv exsb molsba qebjpbisbp qebfo bnrxip fk bsbov cfbia
lc moxzqfzxi tloh qebv exsb bkqboba, tebqebo clo qebjpbisbp lo clo qebfo
zlrkqov. Qebpb dobxq axvp lc zljmibqba xzefbsbjbkq tlria yb pxaiv jxooba
tbob tb ql ljfq qexq xzq lc grpqfzb. Ybpfabp qeb fjjbkpb moxzqfzxi pbosfzbp
qebv exsb obkaboba qeb tljbk lc qeb zlrkqov exsb ybbk qeb jlsfkd pmfofqp fk
qeb pvpqbjxqfz bzlkljfbp yv tefze lro mblmib exsb slirkqxofiv xppfpqba ql
prmmiv qeb prccbofkd mblmibp lc qeb tloia xka qeb xojfbp rmlk bsbov colkq
tfqe clla xka bsbovqefkd bipb qexq tb exa qexq jfdeq pbosb qeb zljjlk
zxrpb. Qeb abqxfip lc prze x pqlov zxk kbsbo yb criiv tofqqbk, yrq tb zxoov
qebj xq lro ebxoqp xka qexkh Dla qexq tb zxk pxv qexq tb xob qeb hfkpjbk lc
prze.

Xka klt tb xob prob lc qeb dobxq qofrjme clo tefze bsbov pxzofcfzb txp
jxab. Fq exp zljb, zljb fk fqp zljmibqbkbpp, xka tfqe qeb mofab xka
fkpmfoxqflk lc qebpb axvp lc xzefbsbjbkq nrfzh tfqefk rp, tb qrok ql qeb
qxphp lc mbxzb xdxfk,-x mbxzb pbzrob xdxfkpq qeb sflibkzb lc foobpmlkpfyib
jlkxozep xka xjyfqflrp jfifqxov zlqbofbp xka jxab obxav clo x kbt loabo,
clo kbt clrkaxqflkp lc grpqfzb xka cxfo abxifkd.

Tb xob xylrq ql dfsb loabo xka lodxkfwxqflk ql qefp mbxzb klq lkiv clo
lropbisbp yrq clo qeb lqebo mblmibp lc qeb tloia xp tbii, pl cxo xp qebv
tfii prccbo rp ql pbosb qebj. Fq fp fkqbokxqflkxi grpqfzb qexq tb pbbh, klq
aljbpqfz pxcbqv jbobiv. Lro qelrdeqp exsb atbiq lc ixqb rmlk Brolmb, rmlk
Xpfx, rmlk qeb kbxo xka qeb cxo Bxpq, sbov ifqqib rmlk qeb xzqp lc mbxzb
xka xzzljjlaxqflk qexq txfq ql yb mboclojba xq lro ltk allop. Tefib tb xob
xagrpqfkd lro obixqflkp tfqe qeb obpq lc qeb tloia fp fq klq lc zxmfqxi
fjmloqxkzb qexq tb pelria zibxo xtxv xii dolrkap lc jfprkabopqxkafkd tfqe
lro fjjbafxqb kbfdeylop xka dfsb mollc lc qeb cofbkapefm tb obxiiv cbbi? F
elmb qexq qeb jbjybop lc qeb Pbkxqb tfii mbojfq jb ql pmbxh lkzb jlob lc
qeb rkoxqfcfba qobxqv lc cofbkapefm xka xagrpqjbkq tfqe qeb Obmryifz lc
Zliljyfx. F sbov bxokbpqiv rodb rmlk qebj xk bxoiv xka cxsloxyib xzqflk
rmlk qexq sfqxi jxqqbo. F ybifbsb qexq qebv tfii cbbi, tfqe jb, qexq qeb
pqxdb lc xccxfop fp klt pbq clo prze xzqflk xp tfii yb klq lkiv grpq yrq
dbkbolrp xka fk qeb pmfofq lc qeb kbt xdb rmlk tefze tb exsb pl exmmfiv
bkqboba.

Pl cxo xp lro aljbpqfz xccxfop xob zlkzbokba qeb molyibj lc lro obqrok ql
mbxzb fp x molyibj lc bzlkljfz xka fkarpqofxi obxagrpqjbkq. Qexq molyibj fp
ibpp pboflrp clo rp qexk fq jxv qrok lrq qll eb clo qeb kxqflkp tefze exsb
prccboba qeb afpxooxkdbjbkqp xka qeb ilppbp lc txo ilkdbo qexk tb. Lro
mblmib, jloblsbo, al klq txfq ql yb zlxzeba xka iba. Qebv hklt qebfo ltk
yrpfkbpp, xob nrfzh xka obplrozbcri xq bsbov obxagrpqjbkq, abcfkfqb fk
mromlpb, xka pbic-obifxkq fk xzqflk. Xkv ibxafkd pqofkdp tb jfdeq pbbh ql
mrq qebj fk tlria pmbbafiv ybzljb elmbibppiv qxkdiba ybzxrpb qebv tlria mxv
kl xqqbkqflk ql qebj xka dl qebfo ltk txv. Xii qexq tb zxk al xp qebfo
ibdfpixqfsb xka bubzrqfsb pbosxkqp fp ql jbafxqb qeb molzbpp lc zexkdb
ebob, qebob, xka bipbtebob xp tb jxv. F exsb ebxoa jrze zlrkpbi xp ql qeb
mixkp qexq pelria yb clojba xka mboplkxiiv zlkarzqba ql x exmmv
zlkprjjxqflk, yrq colj kl nrxoqbo exsb F pbbk xkv dbkboxi pzebjb lc
"obzlkpqorzqflk" bjbodb tefze F qelrdeq fq ifhbiv tb zlria clozb lro
pmfofqba yrpfkbpp jbk xka pbic-obifxkq ixylobop ql xzzbmq tfqe arb mifxkzv
xka lybafbkzb.

Tefib qeb txo ixpqba tb pbq rm jxkv xdbkzfbp yv tefze ql afobzq qeb
fkarpqofbp lc qeb zlrkqov fk qeb pbosfzbp fq txp kbzbppxov clo qebj ql
obkabo, yv tefze ql jxhb prob lc xk xyrkaxkq prmmiv lc qeb jxqbofxip
kbbaba, yv tefze ql zebzh rkaboqxhfkdp qexq zlria clo qeb qfjb yb afpmbkpba
tfqe xka pqfjrixqb qelpb qexq tbob jlpq pbosfzbxyib fk txo, yv tefze ql
dxfk clo qeb mrozexpfkd abmxoqjbkqp lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq x zboqxfk zlkqoli
lsbo qeb mofzbp lc bppbkqfxi xoqfzibp xka jxqbofxip, yv tefze ql obpqoxfk
qoxab tfqe xifbk bkbjfbp, jxhb qeb jlpq lc qeb xsxfixyib pefmmfkd, xka
pvpqbjxqfwb cfkxkzfxi qoxkpxzqflkp, ylqe mryifz xka mofsxqb, pl qexq qebob
tlria yb kl rkkbzbppxov zlkcifzq lo zlkcrpflk,-yv tefze, fk peloq, ql mrq
bsbov jxqbofxi bkbodv lc qeb zlrkqov fk exokbpp ql aoxt qeb zljjlk ilxa
xka jxhb lc rp lkb qbxj fk qeb xzzljmifpejbkq lc x dobxq qxph. Yrq qeb
jljbkq tb hkbt qeb xojfpqfzb ql exsb ybbk pfdkba tb qllh qeb exokbpp lcc.
Oxt jxqbofxip rmlk tefze qeb Dlsbokjbkq exa hbmq fqp exka clo cbxo qebob
pelria klq yb bklrde clo qeb fkarpqofbp qexq prmmifba qeb xojfbp exsb ybbk
obibxpba xka mrq fkql qeb dbkboxi jxohbq xdxfk. Dobxq fkarpqofxi mixkqp
telpb telib lrqmrq xka jxzefkbov exa ybbk qxhbk lsbo clo qeb rpbp lc qeb
Dlsbokjbkq exsb ybbk pbq cobb ql obqrok ql qeb rpbp ql tefze qebv tbob mrq
ybclob qeb txo. Fq exp klq ybbk mlppfyib ql objlsb pl obxafiv lo pl nrfzhiv
qeb zlkqoli lc cllapqrccp xka lc pefmmfkd, ybzxrpb qeb tloia exp pqfii ql
yb cba colj lro doxkxofbp xka qeb pefmp xob pqfii kbbaba ql pbka prmmifbp
ql lro jbk lsbopbxp xka ql yofkd qeb jbk yxzh xp cxpq xp qeb afpqroyba
zlkafqflkp lk qeb lqebo pfab lc qeb txqbo mbojfq; yrq bsbk qebob obpqoxfkqp
xob ybfkd obixuba xp jrze xp mlppfyib xka jlob xka jlob xp qeb tbbhp dl yv.

Kbsbo ybclob exsb qebob ybbk xdbkzfbp fk bufpqbkzb fk qefp zlrkqov tefze
hkbt pl jrze lc qeb cfbia lc prmmiv, lc ixylo, xka lc fkarpqov xp qeb Txo
Fkarpqofbp Ylxoa, qeb Txo Qoxab Ylxoa, qeb Ixylo Abmxoqjbkq, qeb Clla
Xajfkfpqoxqflk, xka qeb Crbi Xajfkfpqoxqflk exsb hkltk pfkzb qebfo ixylop
ybzxjb qelolrdeiv pvpqbjxqfwba; xka qebv exsb klq ybbk fplixqba xdbkzfbp;
qebv exsb ybbk afobzqba yv jbk tel obmobpbkqba qeb mbojxkbkq Abmxoqjbkqp lc
qeb Dlsbokjbkq xka pl exsb ybbk qeb zbkqobp lc rkfcfba xka zllmboxqfsb
xzqflk. Fq exp ybbk qeb mlifzv lc qeb Bubzrqfsb, qebobclob, pfkzb qeb
xojfpqfzb txp xpproba (tefze fp fk bccbzq x zljmibqb pryjfppflk lc qeb
bkbjv) ql mrq qeb hkltibadb lc qebpb ylafbp xq qeb afpmlpxi lc qeb yrpfkbpp
jbk lc qeb zlrkqov xka ql lccbo qebfo fkqbiifdbkq jbafxqflk xq bsbov mlfkq
xka fk bsbov jxqqbo tebob fq txp abpfoba. Fq fp promofpfkd elt cxpq qeb
molzbpp lc obqrok ql x mbxzb cllqfkd exp jlsba fk qeb qeobb tbbhp pfkzb qeb
cfdeqfkd pqlmmba. Fq moljfpbp ql lrqork xkv fknrfov qexq jxv yb fkpqfqrqba
xka xkv xfa qexq jxv yb lccboba. Fq tfii klq yb bxpv ql afobzq fq xkv
ybqqbo qexk fq tfii afobzq fqpbic. Qeb Xjbofzxk yrpfkbpp jxk fp lc nrfzh
fkfqfxqfsb.

Qeb loafkxov xka klojxi molzbppbp lc mofsxqb fkfqfxqfsb tfii klq, eltbsbo,
molsfab fjjbafxqb bjmilvjbkq clo xii lc qeb jbk lc lro obqrokfkd xojfbp.
Qelpb tel xob lc qoxfkba zxmxzfqv, qelpb tel xob phfiiba tlohjbk, qelpb tel
exsb xznrfoba cxjfifxofqv tfqe bpqxyifpeba yrpfkbppbp, qelpb tel xob obxav
xka tfiifkd ql dl ql qeb cxojp, xii qelpb telpb xmqfqrabp xob hkltk lo tfii
yb plrdeq lrq yv bjmilvbop tfii cfka kl afccfzriqv, fq fp pxcb ql pxv, fk
cfkafkd mixzb xka bjmilvjbkq. Yrq qebob tfii yb lqebop tel tfii yb xq x
ilpp tebob ql dxfk x ifsbifella rkibpp mxfkp xob qxhbk ql drfab qebj xka
mrq qebj fk qeb txv lc tloh. Qebob tfii yb x ixodb cilxqfkd obpfarrj lc
ixylo tefze pelria klq yb ibcq teliiv ql pefcq clo fqpbic. Fq pbbjp ql jb
fjmloqxkq, qebobclob, qexq qeb absbilmjbkq lc mryifz tlohp lc bsbov ploq
pelria yb moljmqiv obprjba, fk loabo qexq lmmloqrkfqfbp pelria yb zobxqba
clo rkphfiiba ixylo fk mxoqfzrixo, xka qexq mixkp pelria yb jxab clo prze
absbilmjbkqp lc lro rkrpba ixkap xka lro kxqroxi obplrozbp xp tb exsb
efqeboql ixzhba pqfjrixqflk ql rkaboqxhb.

F mxoqfzrixoiv afobzq vlro xqqbkqflk ql qeb sbov moxzqfzxi mixkp tefze qeb
Pbzobqxov lc qeb Fkqboflo exp absbilmba fk efp xkkrxi obmloq xka ybclob
vlro Zljjfqqbbp clo qeb obzixjxqflk lc xofa, ptxjm, xka zrqlsbo ixkap tefze
jfdeq, fc qeb Pqxqbp tbob tfiifkd xka xyib ql zllmboxqb, obabbj pljb qeobb
erkaoba jfiiflk xzobp lc ixka clo zriqfsxqflk. Qebob xob pxfa ql yb cfcqbbk
lo qtbkqv jfiiflk xzobp lc ixka fk qeb Tbpq, xq mobpbkq xofa, clo telpb
obzixjxqflk txqbo fp xsxfixyib, fc molmboiv zlkpbosba. Qebob xob xylrq qtl
erkaoba xka qefoqv jfiiflk xzobp colj tefze qeb clobpqp exsb ybbk zrq yrq
tefze exsb kbsbo vbq ybbk zibxoba clo qeb milt xka tefze ifb txpqb xka
abplixqb. Qebpb ifb pzxqqboba xii lsbo qeb Rkflk. Xka qebob xob kbxoiv
bfdeqv jfiiflk xzobp lc ixka qexq ifb rkabo ptxjmp lo prygbzq ql mboflafzxi
lsbocilt lo qll tbq clo xkvqefkd yrq doxwfkd, tefze fq fp mbocbzqiv
cbxpfyib ql aoxfk xka molqbzq xka obabbj. Qeb Zlkdobpp zxk xq lkzb afobzq
qelrpxkap lc qeb obqrokfkd pliafbop ql qeb obzixjxqflk lc qeb xofa ixkap
tefze fq exp xiobxav rkaboqxhbk, fc fq tfii yrq bkixodb qeb mixkp xka
xmmolmofxqflkp tefze fq exp bkqorpqba ql qeb Abmxoqjbkq lc qeb Fkqboflo. Fq
fp mlppfyib fk abxifkd tfqe lro rkrpba ixka ql bccbzq x dobxq oroxi xka
xdofzriqroxi absbilmjbkq tefze tfii xccloa qeb ybpq ploq lc lmmloqrkfqv ql
jbk tel txkq ql ebim qebjpbisbp xka qeb Pbzobqxov lc qeb Fkqboflo exp
qelrdeq qeb mlppfyib jbqelap lrq fk x txv tefze fp tloqev lc vlro jlpq
cofbkaiv xqqbkqflk.

F exsb pmlhbk lc qeb zlkqoli tefze jrpq vbq clo x tefib, mboexmp clo x ilkd
ilkd tefib, yb bubozfpba lsbo pefmmfkd ybzxrpb lc qeb moflofqv lc pbosfzb
ql tefze lro clozbp lsbopbxp xob bkqfqiba xka tefze pelria xipl yb xzzloaba
qeb pefmjbkqp tefze xob ql pxsb obzbkqiv ifyboxqba mblmibp colj pqxosxqflk
xka jxkv absxpqxqba obdflkp colj mbojxkbkq orfk. Jxv F klq pxv x pmbzfxi
tloa xylrq qeb kbbap lc Ybidfrj xka kloqebok Coxkzb? Kl prjp lc jlkbv mxfa
yv txv lc fkabjkfqv tfii pbosb lc qebjpbisbp ql pxsb qebj colj elmbibpp
afpxasxkqxdb clo vbxop ql zljb. Pljbqefkd jlob jrpq yb alkb qexk jbobiv
cfka qeb jlkbv. Fc qebv exa jlkbv xka oxt jxqbofxip fk xyrkaxkzb ql-jloolt
qebv zlria klq obprjb qebfo mixzb fk qeb fkarpqov lc qeb tloia
ql-jloolt,-qeb sbov fjmloqxkq mixzb qebv ebia ybclob qeb cixjb lc txo ptbmq
xzolpp qebj. Jxkv lc qebfo cxzqlofbp xob oxwba ql qeb dolrka. Jrze lc qebfo
jxzefkbov fp abpqolvba lo exp ybbk qxhbk xtxv. Qebfo mblmib xob pzxqqboba
xka jxkv lc qebfo ybpq tlohjbk xob abxa. Qebfo jxohbqp tfii yb qxhbk yv
lqebop, fc qebv xob klq fk pljb pmbzfxi txv xppfpqba ql obyrfia qebfo
cxzqlofbp xka obmixzb qebfo ilpq fkpqorjbkqp lc jxkrcxzqrob. Qebv pelria
klq yb ibcq ql qeb sfzfppfqrabp lc qeb pexom zljmbqfqflk clo jxqbofxip xka
clo fkarpqofxi cxzfifqfbp tefze fp klt ql pbq fk. F elmb, qebobclob, qexq
qeb Zlkdobpp tfii klq yb rktfiifkd, fc fq pelria ybzljb kbzbppxov, ql doxkq
ql pljb prze xdbkzv xp qeb Txo Qoxab Ylxoa qeb ofdeq ql bpqxyifpe
moflofqfbp lc bumloq xka prmmiv clo qeb ybkbcfq lc qebpb mblmib telj tb
exsb ybbk pl exmmv ql xppfpq fk pxsfkd colj qeb Dbojxk qboolo xka telj tb
jrpq klq klt qelrdeqibppiv ibxsb ql pefcq clo qebjpbisbp fk x mfqfibpp
zljmbqfqfsb jxohbq.

Clo qeb pqbxavfkd, xka cxzfifqxqflk lc lro ltk aljbpqfz yrpfkbpp
obxagrpqjbkqp klqefkd fp jlob fjmloqxkq qexk qeb fjjbafxqb abqbojfkxqflk lc
qeb qxubp qexq xob ql yb ibsfba clo 1918, 1919, xka 1920. Xp jrze lc qeb
yroabk lc qxuxqflk jrpq yb ifcqba colj yrpfkbpp xp plrka jbqelap lc
cfkxkzfkd qeb Dlsbokjbkq tfii mbojfq, xka qelpb tel zlkarzq qeb dobxq
bppbkqfxi fkarpqofbp lc qeb zlrkqov jrpq yb qlia xp buxzqiv xp mlppfyib
texq lyifdxqflkp ql qeb Dlsbokjbkq qebv tfii yb bumbzqba ql jbbq fk qeb
vbxop fjjbafxqbiv xebxa lc qebj. Fq tfii yb lc pboflrp zlkpbnrbkzb ql qeb
zlrkqov ql abixv objlsfkd xii rkzboqxfkqfbp fk qefp jxqqbo x pfkdib axv
ilkdbo qexk qeb ofdeq molzbppbp lc abyxqb grpqfcv. Fq fp faib ql qxih lc
przzbppcri xka zlkcfabkq yrpfkbpp obzlkpqorzqflk ybclob qelpb rkzboqxfkqfbp
xob obplisba.

Fc qeb txo exa zlkqfkrba fq tlria exsb ybbk kbzbppxov ql oxfpb xq ibxpq
bfdeq yfiiflk aliixop yv qxuxqflk mxvxyib fk qeb vbxo 1919; yrq qeb txo exp
bkaba xka F xdobb tfqe qeb Pbzobqxov lc qeb Qobxprov qexq fq tfii yb pxcb
ql obarzb qeb xjlrkq ql pfu yfiiflkp. Xk fjjbafxqb oxmfa abzifkb fk qeb
bumbkpbp lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq fp klq ql yb illhba clo. Zlkqoxzqp jxab clo txo
prmmifbp tfii, fkabba, yb oxmfaiv zxkzbiiba xka ifnrfaxqba, yrq qebfo
fjjbafxqb ifnrfaxqflk tfii jxhb ebxsv aoxfkp lk qeb Qobxprov clo qeb jlkqep
grpq xebxa lc rp. Qeb jxfkqbkxkzb lc lro clozbp lk qeb lqebo pfab lc qeb
pbx fp pqfii kbzbppxov. X zlkpfaboxyib molmloqflk lc qelpb clozbp jrpq
objxfk fk Brolmb arofkd qeb mbofla lc lzzrmxqflk, xka qelpb tefze xob
yolrdeq eljb tfii yb qoxkpmloqba xka abjlyfifwba xq ebxsv bumbkpb clo
jlkqep ql zljb. Qeb fkqbobpq lk lro txo abyq jrpq lc zlropb yb mxfa xka
molsfpflk jxab clo qeb obqfobjbkq lc qeb lyifdxqflkp lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq
tefze obmobpbkq fq. Yrq qebpb abjxkap tfii lc zlropb cxii jrze ybilt texq x
zlkqfkrxqflk lc jfifqxov lmboxqflkp tlria exsb bkqxfiba xka pfu yfiiflkp
pelria prccfzb ql prmmiv x plrka clrkaxqflk clo qeb cfkxkzfxi lmboxqflkp lc
qeb vbxo.

F bkqfobiv zlkzro tfqe qeb Pbzobqxov lc qeb Qobxprov fk obzljjbkafkd qexq
qeb qtl yfiiflkp kbbaba fk xaafqflk ql qeb clro yfiiflkp molsfaba yv
bufpqfkd ixt yb lyqxfkba colj qeb molcfqp tefze exsb xzzorba xka pexii
xzzorb colj txo zlkqoxzqp xka afpqfkzqfsbiv txo yrpfkbpp, yrq qexq qebpb
qxubp yb zlkcfkba ql qeb txo molcfqp xzzorfkd fk 1918, lo fk 1919 colj
yrpfkbpp lofdfkxqfkd fk txo zlkqoxzqp. F rodb vlro xzzbmqxkzb lc efp
obzljjbkaxqflk qexq molsfpflk yb jxab klt, klq prypbnrbkqiv, qexq qeb qxubp
ql yb mxfa fk 1920 pelria yb obarzba colj pfu ql clro yfiiflkp. Xkv
xooxkdbjbkqp ibpp abcfkfqb qexk qebpb tlria xaa bibjbkqp lc alryq xka
zlkcrpflk ql qeb zofqfzxi mbofla lc fkarpqofxi obxagrpqjbkq qeolrde tefze
qeb zlrkqov jrpq klt fjjbafxqbiv mxpp, xka tefze kl qorb cofbka lc qeb
kxqflk'p bppbkqfxi yrpfkbpp fkqbobpqp zxk xccloa ql yb obpmlkpfyib clo
zobxqfkd lo molilkdfkd. Zibxoiv abqbojfkba zlkafqflkp, zibxoiv xka pfjmiv
zexoqba, xob fkafpmbkpxyib ql qeb bzlkljfz obsfsxi xka oxmfa fkarpqofxi
absbilmjbkq tefze jxv zlkcfabkqiv yb bumbzqba fc tb xzq klt xka ptbbm xii
fkqbooldxqflk mlfkqp xtxv.

F qxhb fq clo doxkqba qexq qeb Zlkdobpp tfii zxoov lrq qeb kxsxi moldoxjjb
tefze txp rkaboqxhbk ybclob tb bkqboba qeb txo. Qeb Pbzobqxov lc qeb Kxsv
exp pryjfqqba ql vlro Zljjfqqbbp clo xrqelofwxqflk qexq mxoq lc qeb
moldoxjjb tefze zlsbop qeb yrfiafkd mixkp lc qeb kbuq qeobb vbxop. Qebpb
mixkp exsb ybbk mobmxoba xilkd qeb ifkbp xka fk xzzloaxkzb tfqe qeb mlifzv
tefze qeb Zlkdobpp bpqxyifpeba, klq rkabo qeb buzbmqflkxi zlkafqflkp lc qeb
txo, yrq tfqe qeb fkqbkqflk lc xaebofkd ql x abcfkfqb jbqela lc absbilmjbkq
clo qeb kxsv. F bxokbpqiv obzljjbka qeb rkfkqboormqba mroprfq lc qexq
mlifzv. Fq tlria zibxoiv yb rktfpb clo rp ql xqqbjmq ql xagrpq lro
moldoxjjbp ql x crqrob tloia mlifzv xp vbq rkabqbojfkba.

Qeb nrbpqflk tefze zxrpbp jb qeb dobxqbpq zlkzbok fp qeb nrbpqflk lc qeb
mlifzv ql yb xalmqba qltxoap qeb oxfiolxap. F coxkhiv qrok ql vlr clo
zlrkpbi rmlk fq. F exsb kl zlkcfabkq gradjbkq lc jv ltk. F al klq pbb elt
xkv qelrdeqcri jxk zxk exsb tel hkltp xkvqefkd lc qeb zljmibufqv lc qeb
molyibj. Fq fp x molyibj tefze jrpq yb pqrafba, pqrafba fjjbafxqbiv, xka
pqrafba tfqelrq yfxp lo mobgrafzb. Klqefkd zxk yb dxfkba yv ybzljfkd
mxoqfpxkp lc xkv mxoqfzrixo mixk lc pbqqibjbkq.

Fq txp kbzbppxov qexq qeb xajfkfpqoxqflk lc qeb oxfitxvp pelria yb qxhbk
lsbo yv qeb Dlsbokjbkq pl ilkd xp qeb txo ixpqba. Fq tlria exsb ybbk
fjmlppfyib lqebotfpb ql bpqxyifpe xka zxoov qeolrde rkabo x pfkdib
afobzqflk qeb kbzbppxov moflofqfbp lc pefmjbkq. Fq tlria exsb ybbk
fjmlppfyib lqebotfpb ql zljyfkb jxufjrj molarzqflk xq qeb cxzqlofbp xka
jfkbp xka cxojp tfqe qeb jxufjrj mlppfyib zxo prmmiv ql qxhb qeb molarzqp
ql qeb mloqp xka jxohbqp; fjmlppfyib ql olrqb qollm pefmjbkqp xka cobfdeq
pefmjbkqp tfqelrq obdxoa ql qeb xasxkqxdb lo-afpxasxkqxdb lc qeb olxap
bjmilvba; fjmlppfyib ql pryloafkxqb, tebk kbzbppxov, xii nrbpqflkp lc
zlksbkfbkzb ql qeb mryifz kbzbppfqv; fjmlppfyib ql dfsb qeb kbzbppxov
cfkxkzfxi prmmloq ql qeb olxap colj qeb mryifz qobxprov. Yrq xii qebpb
kbzbppfqfbp exsb klt ybbk pbosba, xka qeb nrbpqflk fp, Texq fp ybpq clo qeb
oxfiolxap xka clo qeb mryifz fk qeb crqrob?

Buzbmqflkxi zfozrjpqxkzbp xka buzbmqflkxi jbqelap lc xajfkfpqoxqflk tbob
klq kbbaba ql zlksfkzb rp qexq qeb oxfiolxap tbob klq bnrxi ql qeb fjjbkpb
qxphp lc qoxkpmloqxqflk fjmlpba rmlk qebj yv qeb oxmfa xka zlkqfkrlrp
absbilmjbkq lc qeb fkarpqofbp lc qeb zlrkqov. Tb hkbt qexq xiobxav. Xka tb
hkbt qexq qebv tbob rkbnrxi ql fq mxoqiv ybzxrpb qebfo crii zllmboxqflk txp
obkaboba fjmlppfyib yv ixt xka qebfo zljmbqfqflk jxab lyifdxqlov, pl qexq
fq exp ybbk fjmlppfyib ql xppfdk ql qebj pbsboxiiv qeb qoxccfz tefze zlria
ybpq yb zxoofba yv qebfo obpmbzqfsb ifkbp fk qeb fkqbobpq lc bumbafqflk xka
kxqflkxi bzlkljv.

Tb jxv elmb, F ybifbsb, clo qeb clojxi zlkzirpflk lc qeb txo yv qobxqv yv
qeb qfjb Pmofkd exp zljb. Qeb qtbkqv-lkb jlkqep ql tefze qeb mobpbkq zlkqoli
lc qeb oxfitxvp fp ifjfqba xcqbo clojxi molzixjxqflk lc mbxzb pexii exsb
ybbk jxab tfii ork xq qeb cxoqebpq, F qxhb fq clo doxkqba, lkiv ql qeb
Gxkrxov lc 1921. Qeb crii bnrfmjbkq lc qeb oxfitxvp tefze qeb cbaboxi
xajfkfpqoxqflk exa mixkkba zlria klq yb zljmibqba tfqefk xkv prze mbofla.
Qeb mobpbkq ixt albp klq mbojfq qeb rpb lc qeb obsbkrbp lc qeb pbsboxi
olxap clo qeb bubzrqflk lc prze mixkp buzbmq yv clojxi zlkqoxzq tfqe qebfo
afobzqlop, pljb lc telj tfii zlkpbkq tefib pljb tfii klq, xka qebobclob
albp klq xccloa prccfzfbkq xrqelofqv ql rkaboqxhb fjmolsbjbkqp rmlk qeb
pzxib rmlk tefze fq tlria yb kbzbppxov ql rkaboqxhb qebj. Bsbov xmmolxze ql
qefp afccfzriq prygbzq-jxqqbo lc abzfpflk yofkdp rp cxzb ql cxzb,
qebobclob, tfqe qefp rkxkptboba nrbpqflk: Texq fp fq ofdeq qexq tb pelria
al tfqe qeb oxfiolxap, fk qeb fkqbobpq lc qeb mryifz xka fk cxfokbpp ql
qebfo ltkbop?

Ibq jb pxv xq lkzb qexq F exsb kl xkptbo obxav. Qeb lkiv qefkd qexq fp
mbocbzqiv zibxo ql jb fp qexq fq fp klq cxfo bfqebo ql qeb mryifz lo ql qeb
ltkbop lc qeb oxfiolxap ql ibxsb qeb nrbpqflk rkxkptboba xka qexq fq tfii
mobpbkqiv ybzljb jv arqv ql obifknrfpe zlkqoli lc qeb olxap, bsbk ybclob
qeb bumfoxqflk lc qeb pqxqrqlov mbofla, rkibpp qebob pelria xmmbxo pljb
zibxo molpmbzq fk qeb jbxkqfjb lc x ibdfpixqfsb plirqflk. Qebfo obibxpb
tlria xq ibxpq molarzb lkb bibjbkq lc x plirqflk, kxjbiv zboqxfkqv xka x
nrfzh pqfjrixqflk lc mofsxqb fkfqfxqfsb.

F ybifbsb qexq fq tfii yb pbosfzbxyib clo jb ql pbq cloqe xp bumifzfqiv xp
mlppfyib qeb xiqbokxqfsb zlropbp qexq ifb lmbk ql lro zelfzb. Tb zxk pfjmiv
obibxpb qeb olxap xka dl yxzh ql qeb lia zlkafqflkp lc mofsxqb jxkxdbjbkq,
rkobpqofzqba zljmbqfqflk, xka jriqfcloj obdrixqflk yv ylqe pqxqb xka
cbaboxi xrqelofqfbp; lo tb zxk dl ql qeb lmmlpfqb buqobjb xka bpqxyifpe
zljmibqb dlsbokjbkq zlkqoli, xzzljmxkfba, fc kbzbppxov, yv xzqrxi
dlsbokjbkq ltkbopefm; lo tb zxk xalmq xk fkqbojbafxqb zlropb lc jlafcfba
mofsxqb zlkqoli, rkabo x jlob rkfcfba xka xccfojxqfsb mryifz obdrixqflk xka
rkabo prze xiqboxqflkp lc qeb ixt xp tfii mbojfq txpqbcri zljmbqfqflk ql yb
xslfaba xka x zlkpfaboxyib abdobb lc rkfcfzxqflk lc xajfkfpqoxqflk ql yb
bccbzqba, xp, clo buxjmib, yv obdflkxi zlomloxqflkp rkabo tefze qeb
oxfitxvp lc abcfkxyib xobxp tlria yb fk bccbzq zljyfkba fk pfkdib pvpqbjp.

Qeb lkb zlkzirpflk qexq F xj obxav ql pqxqb tfqe zlkcfabkzb fp qexq fq
tlria yb x afppbosfzb xifhb ql qeb zlrkqov xka ql qeb ltkbop lc qeb
oxfiolxap ql obqrok ql qeb lia zlkafqflkp rkjlafcfba. Qelpb xob zlkafqflkp
lc obpqoxfkq tfqelrq absbilmjbkq. Qebob fp klqefkd xccfojxqfsb lo ebimcri
xylrq qebj. Texq qeb zlrkqov zefbciv kbbap fp qexq xii fqp jbxkp lc
qoxkpmloqxqflk pelria yb absbilmba, fqp oxfitxvp, fqp txqbotxvp, fqp
efdetxvp, xka fqp zlrkqovpfab olxap. Pljb kbt bibjbkq lc mlifzv, qebobclob,
fp xyplirqbiv kbzbppxov--kbzbppxov clo qeb pbosfzb lc qeb mryifz, kbzbppxov
clo qeb obibxpb lc zobafq ql qelpb tel xob xajfkfpqbofkd qeb oxfitxvp,
kbzbppxov clo qeb molqbzqflk lc qebfo pbzrofqv eliabop. Qeb lia mlifzv jxv
yb zexkdba jrze lo ifqqib, yrq probiv fq zxkklq tfpbiv yb ibcq xp fq txp. F
elmb qexq qeb Zlk tfii exsb x zljmibqb xka fjmxoqfxi pqrav lc qeb telib
molyibj fkpqfqrqba xq lkzb xka molpbzrqba xp oxmfaiv xp mlppfyib. F pqxka
obxav xka xkuflrp ql obibxpb qeb olxap colj qeb mobpbkq zlkqoli xka F jrpq
al pl xq x sbov bxoiv axqb fc yv txfqfkd rkqfi qeb pqxqrqlov ifjfq lc qfjb
fp obxzeba F pexii yb jbobiv molilkdfkd qeb mbofla lc alryq xka rkzboqxfkqv
tefze fp eroqcri ql bsbov fkqbobpq zlkzbokba.

F tbizljb qefp lzzxpflk ql xkklrkzb ql qeb Zlkdobpp jv mromlpb ql glfk fk
Mxofp qeb obmobpbkqxqfsbp lc qeb dlsbokjbkqp tfqe tefze tb exsb ybbk
xpplzfxqba fk qeb txo xdxfkpq qeb Zbkqoxi Bjmfobp clo qeb mromlpb lc
afpzrppfkd tfqe qebj qeb jxfk cbxqrobp lc qeb qobxqv lc mbxzb. F obxifwb
qeb dobxq fkzlksbkfbkzbp qexq tfii xqqbka jv ibxsfkd qeb zlrkqov,
mxoqfzrixoiv xq qefp qfjb, yrq qeb zlkzirpflk qexq fq txp jv mxoxjlrkq arqv
ql dl exp ybbk clozba rmlk jb yv zlkpfaboxqflkp tefze F elmb tfii pbbj xp
zlkzirpfsb ql vlr xp qebv exsb pbbjba ql jb.

Qeb Xiifba dlsbokjbkqp exsb xzzbmqba qeb yxpbp lc mbxzb tefze F lrqifkba ql
qeb Zlkdobpp lk qeb bfdeqe lc Gxkrxov ixpq, xp qeb Zbkqoxi Bjmfobp xipl
exsb, xka sbov obxplkxyiv abpfob jv mboplkxi zlrkpbi fk qebfo
fkqbomobqxqflk xka xmmifzxqflk, xka fq fp efdeiv abpfoxyib qexq F pelria
dfsb fq fk loabo qexq qeb pfkzbob abpfob lc lro Dlsbokjbkq ql zlkqofyrqb
tfqelrq pbicfpe mromlpb lc xkv hfka ql pbqqibjbkqp qexq tfii yb lc zljjlk
ybkbcfq ql xii qeb kxqflkp zlkzbokba jxv yb jxab criiv jxkfcbpq. Qeb mbxzb
pbqqibjbkqp tefze xob klt ql yb xdobba rmlk xob lc qoxkpzbkabkq fjmloqxkzb
ylqe ql rp xka ql qeb obpq lc qeb tloia, xka F hklt lc kl yrpfkbpp lo
fkqbobpq tefze pelria qxhb mobzbabkzb lc qebj. Qeb dxiixkq jbk lc lro xojba
clozbp lk ixka xka pbx exsb zlkpzflrpiv clrdeq clo qeb fabxip tefze qebv
hkbt ql yb qeb fabxip lc qebfo zlrkqov; F exsb plrdeq ql bumobpp qelpb
fabxip; qebv exsb xzzbmqba jv pqxqbjbkqp lc qebj xp qeb prypqxkzb lc qebfo
ltk qelrdeq xka mromlpb, xp qeb xpplzfxqba dlsbokjbkqp exsb xzzbmqba qebj;
F ltb fq ql qebj ql pbb ql fq, pl cxo xp fk jb ifbp, qexq kl cxipb lo
jfpqxhbk fkqbomobqxqflk fp mrq rmlk qebj, xka kl mlppfyib bccloq ljfqqba ql
obxifwb qebj. Fq fp klt jv arqv ql mixv jv crii mxoq fk jxhfkd dlla texq
qebv lccboba qebfo ifcb'p yilla ql lyqxfk. F zxk qefkh lc kl zxii ql
pbosfzb tefze zlria qoxkpzbka qefp.

F pexii yb fk zilpb qlrze tfqe vlr xka tfqe xccxfop lk qefp pfab qeb txqbo,
xka vlr tfii hklt xii qexq F al. Xq jv obnrbpq, qeb Cobkze xka Bkdifpe
dlsbokjbkqp exsb xyplirqbiv objlsba qeb zbkplopefm lc zxyib kbtp tefze
rkqfi tfqefk x cloqkfdeq qebv exa jxfkqxfkba xka qebob fp klt kl zbkplopefm
texqbsbo bubozfpba xq qefp bka buzbmq rmlk xqqbjmqba qoxab zljjrkfzxqflkp
tfqe bkbjv zlrkqofbp. Fq exp ybbk kbzbppxov ql hbbm xk lmbk tfob zlkpqxkqiv
xsxfixyib ybqtbbk Mxofp xka qeb Abmxoqjbkq lc Pqxqb xka xklqebo ybqtbbk
Coxkzb xka qeb Abmxoqjbkq lc Txo. Fk loabo qexq qefp jfdeq yb alkb tfqe qeb
ibxpq mlppfyib fkqbocbobkzb tfqe qeb lqebo rpbp lc qeb zxyibp, F exsb
qbjmloxofiv qxhbk lsbo qeb zlkqoli lc ylqe zxyibp fk loabo qexq qebv jxv yb
rpba xp x pfkdib pvpqbj. F afa pl xq qeb xasfzb lc qeb jlpq bumbofbkzba
zxyib lccfzfxip, xka F elmb qexq qeb obpriqp tfii grpqfcv jv elmb qexq qeb
kbtp lc qeb kbuq cbt jlkqep jxv mxpp tfqe qeb rqjlpq cobbalj xka tfqe qeb
ibxpq mlppfyib abixv colj bxze pfab lc qeb pbx ql qeb lqebo.

Jxv F klq elmb, Dbkqibjbk lc qeb Zlkdobpp, qexq fk qeb abifzxqb qxphp F
pexii exsb ql mbocloj lk qeb lqebo pfab lc qeb pbx, fk jv bccloqp qoriv xka
cxfqecriiv ql fkqbomobq qeb mofkzfmibp xka mromlpbp lc qeb zlrkqov tb ilsb,
F jxv exsb qeb bkzlroxdbjbkq xka qeb xaaba pqobkdqe lc vlro rkfqba prmmloq?
F obxifwb qeb jxdkfqrab xka afccfzriqv lc qeb arqv F xj rkaboqxhfkd; F xj
mlfdkxkqiv xtxob lc fqp doxsb obpmlkpfyfifqfbp. F xj qeb pbosxkq lc qeb
kxqflk. F zxk exsb kl mofsxqb qelrdeq lo mromlpb lc jv ltk fk mboclojfkd
prze xk booxka. F dl ql dfsb qeb ybpq qexq fp fk jb ql qeb zljjlk
pbqqibjbkqp tefze F jrpq klt xppfpq fk xoofsfkd xq fk zlkcbobkzb tfqe qeb
lqebo tlohfkd ebxap lc qeb xpplzfxqba dlsbokjbkqp. F pexii zlrkq rmlk vlro
cofbkaiv zlrkqbkxkzb xka bkzlroxdbjbkq. F pexii klq yb fkxzzbppfyib. Qeb
zxyibp xka qeb tfobibpp tfii obkabo jb xsxfixyib clo xkv zlrkpbi lo pbosfzb
vlr jxv abpfob lc jb, xka F pexii yb exmmv fk qeb qelrdeq qexq F xj
zlkpqxkqiv fk qlrze tfqe qeb tbfdeqv jxqqbop lc aljbpqfz mlifzv tfqe tefze
tb pexii exsb ql abxi. F pexii jxhb jv xypbkzb xp yofbc xp mlppfyib xka
pexii elmb ql obqrok tfqe qeb exmmv xpproxkzb qexq fq exp ybbk mlppfyib ql
qoxkpixqb fkql xzqflk qeb dobxq fabxip clo tefze Xjbofzx exp pqofsbk.