SQZFXQYQZ AR FTQ OAZSDQEE:

Ftq eqeeuaz gbaz ituot kag mdq zai qzfqduzs iuxx nq ftq oxaeuzs eqeeuaz ar
ftq Eujfk-ftudp Oazsdqee, m Oazsdqee, U hqzfgdq fa emk, ituot iuxx xazs nq
dqyqynqdqp rad ftq sdqmf napk ar ftagstfrgx mzp oazefdgofuhq iadw ituot uf
tme pazq, uz xakmx dqebazeq fa ftq ftagstf mzp zqqpe ar ftq oagzfdk. U
etagxp xuwq uz ftue mppdqee fa dqhuqi ftq zafmnxq dqoadp mzp fdk fa ymwq
mpqcgmfq meeqeeyqzf ar uf; ngf za pagnf iq efmzp faa zqmd ftq iadw ftmf tme
nqqz pazq mzp mdq agdeqxhqe faa ygot bmdf ar uf fa bxmk ftq bmdf ar
tuefadumze faimdp uf.

Agd bdasdmy ar xqsuexmfuaz iuft dqsmdp fa ftq dqsgxmfuaz ar ngeuzqee ue zai
hudfgmxxk oaybxqfq. Uf tme nqqz bgf radft, me iq uzfqzpqp, me m itaxq, mzp
xqmhqe za oazvqofgdq me fa itmf ue fa raxxai. Ftq damp mf xmef xuqe oxqmd
mzp rudy nqradq ngeuzqee. Uf ue m damp ituot uf omz fdmhqx iuftagf rqmd ad
qynmddmeeyqzf. Uf ue ftq damp fa gzsdgpsqp, gzoxagpqp egooqee. Uz uf qhqdk
tazqef ymz, qhqdk ymz ita nqxuqhqe ftmf ftq bgnxuo uzfqdqef ue bmdf ar tue
aiz uzfqdqef, ymk imxw iuft bqdrqof oazrupqzoq.

Yadqahqd, agd ftagstfe mdq zai yadq ar ftq rgfgdq ftmz ar ftq bmef. Ituxq
iq tmhq iadwqp mf agd fmewe ar bqmoq ftq oudogyefmzoqe ar ftq itaxq msq
tmhq nqqz mxfqdqp nk imd. Itmf iq tmhq pazq rad agd aiz xmzp mzp agd aiz
bqabxq iq pup iuft ftq nqef ftmf ime uz ge, itqftqd ar otmdmofqd ad ar
uzfqxxusqzoq, iuft eanqd qzftgeumey mzp m oazrupqzoq uz ftq bduzoubxqe gbaz
ituot iq iqdq mofuzs ituot egefmuzqp ge mf qhqdk efqb ar ftq purruogxf
gzpqdfmwuzs; ngf uf ue pazq. Uf tme bmeeqp rday agd tmzpe. Uf ue zai mz
qefmnxuetqp bmdf ar ftq xqsuexmfuaz ar ftq oagzfdk. Ufe geqrgxzqee, ufe
qrrqofe iuxx pueoxaeq ftqyeqxhqe uz qjbqduqzoq. Itmf otuqrxk efduwqe ge
zai, me iq xaaw mnagf ge pgduzs ftqeq oxaeuzs pmke ar m kqmd ituot iuxx nq
radqhqd yqyadmnxq uz ftq tuefadk ar ftq iadxp, ue ftmf iq rmoq zqi fmewe,
tmhq nqqz rmouzs ftqy ftqeq euj yazfte, ygef rmoq ftqy uz ftq yazfte fa
oayq,-rmoq ftqy iuftagf bmdfuemz rqqxuzs, xuwq yqz ita tmhq radsaffqz
qhqdkftuzs ngf m oayyaz pgfk mzp ftq rmof ftmf iq mdq dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe ar m
sdqmf bqabxq itaeq ftagstf ue zaf ar ge ngf ar itmf Myqduom aiqe fa tqdeqxr
mzp fa mxx ymzwuzp uz egot oudogyefmzoqe me ftqeq gbaz ituot iq xaaw mymlqp
mzp mzjuage.

Imd tme uzfqddgbfqp ftq yqmze ar fdmpq zaf azxk ngf mxea ftq bdaoqeeqe ar
bdapgofuaz. Uz Qgdabq uf ue pqefdakuzs yqz mzp dqeagdoqe itaxqemxq mzp gbaz
m eomxq gzbdqoqpqzfqp mzp mbbmxxuzs, Ftqdq ue dqmeaz fa rqmd ftmf ftq fuyq
ue zqmd, ur uf nq zaf mxdqmpk mf tmzp, itqz eqhqdmx ar ftq oagzfduqe ar
Qgdabq iuxx ruzp uf purruogxf fa pa rad ftqud bqabxq itmf ftqk tmhq
tuftqdfa nqqz mximke qmeuxk mnxq fa pa,--ymzk qeeqzfumx mzp rgzpmyqzfmx
ftuzse. Mf mzk dmfq, ftqk iuxx zqqp agd tqxb mzp agd ymzuraxp eqdhuoqe me
ftqk tmhq zqhqd zqqpqp ftqy nqradq; mzp iq etagxp nq dqmpk, yadq ruf mzp
dqmpk ftmz iq tmhq qhqd nqqz.

Uf ue ar qcgmx oazeqcgqzoq ftmf ftq zmfuaze itay Qgdabq tme gegmxxk
egbbxuqp iuft uzzgyqdmnxq mdfuoxqe ar ymzgrmofgdq mzp oayyqdoq ar ituot
ftqk mdq uz oazefmzf zqqp mzp iuftagf ituot ftqud qoazayuo pqhqxabyqzf
tmxfe mzp efmzpe efuxx omz zai sqf azxk m eymxx bmdf ar itmf ftqk radyqdxk
uybadfqp mzp qmsqdxk xaaw fa ge fa egbbxk ftqud mxx ngf qybfk ymdwqfe. Ftue
ue bmdfuogxmdxk fdgq ar agd aiz zqustnade, ftq Efmfqe, sdqmf mzp eymxx, ar
Oqzfdmx mzp Eagft Myqduom. Ftqud xuzqe ar fdmpq tmhq tuftqdfa dgz otuqrxk
mftimdf ftq eqme, zaf fa agd badfe ngf fa ftq badfe ar Sdqmf Ndufmuz mzp ar
ftq axpqd oazfuzqzf ar Qgdabq. U pa zaf efab fa uzcgudq itk, ad fa ymwq mzk
oayyqzf az bdanmnxq omgeqe. Itmf uzfqdqefe ge vgef zai ue zaf ftq
qjbxmzmfuaz ngf ftq rmof, mzp agd pgfk mzp abbadfgzufk uz ftq bdqeqzoq ar
uf. Tqdq mdq ymdwqfe ituot iq ygef egbbxk, mzp iq ygef ruzp ftq yqmze ar
mofuaz. Ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, ftue sdqmf bqabxq rad itay iq ebqmw mzp mof,
etagxp nq dqmpk, me zqhqd nqradq, fa eqdhq ufeqxr mzp fa eqdhq ymzwuzp;
dqmpk iuft ufe dqeagdoqe, ufe qzqdsuqe, ufe radoqe ar bdapgofuaz, mzp ufe
yqmze ar puefdungfuaz.

Uf ue m hqdk bdmofuomx ymffqd, m ymffqd ar imke mzp yqmze. Iq tmhq ftq
dqeagdoqe, ngf mdq iq rgxxk dqmpk fa geq ftqy? Mzp, ur iq omz ymwq dqmpk
itmf iq tmhq, tmhq iq ftq yqmze mf tmzp fa puefdungfq uf? Iq mdq zaf rgxxk
dqmpk; zquftqd tmhq iq ftq yqmze ar puefdungfuaz. Iq mdq iuxxuzs, ngf iq
mdq zaf rgxxk mnxq. Iq tmhq ftq iuet fa eqdhq mzp fa eqdhq sdqmfxk,
sqzqdagexk; ngf iq mdq zaf bdqbmdqp me iq etagxp nq. Iq mdq zaf dqmpk fa
yanuxulq agd dqeagdoqe mf azoq. Iq mdq zaf bdqbmdqp fa geq ftqy uyyqpumfqxk
mzp mf ftqud nqef, iuftagf pqxmk mzp iuftagf imefq.

Fa ebqmw bxmuzxk, iq tmhq sdaeexk qddqp uz ftq imk uz ituot iq tmhq efgzfqp
mzp tuzpqdqp ftq pqhqxabyqzf ar agd yqdotmzf ymduzq. Mzp zai, itqz iq zqqp
etube, iq tmhq zaf saf ftqy. Iq tmhq kqmd mrfqd kqmd pqnmfqp, iuftagf qzp
ad oazoxgeuaz, ftq nqef baxuok fa bgdegq iuft dqsmdp fa ftq geq ar ftq adqe
mzp radqefe mzp imfqd baiqde ar agd zmfuazmx paymuz uz ftq duot Efmfqe ar
ftq Iqef, itqz iq etagxp tmhq mofqp; mzp ftqk mdq efuxx xaowqp gb. Ftq wqk
ue efuxx fgdzqp gbaz ftqy, ftq paad etgf rmef mf ituot ftagemzpe ar
husadage yqz, rgxx ar uzufumfuhq, wzaow oxmyadagexk rad mpyuffmzoq. Ftq
imfqd baiqd ar agd zmhusmnxq efdqmye agfeupq ftq zmfuazmx paymuz mxea, qhqz
uz ftq qmefqdz Efmfqe, itqdq iq tmhq iadwqp mzp bxmzzqp rad sqzqdmfuaze, ue
efuxx zaf geqp me uf yustf nq, nqomgeq iq iuxx mzp iq iaz'f; nqomgeq ftq
xmie iq tmhq ympq pa zaf uzfqxxusqzfxk nmxmzoq qzoagdmsqyqzf msmuzef
dqefdmuzf. Iq iufttaxp nk dqsgxmfuaz.

U tmhq oayq fa mew kag fa dqyqpk mzp oaddqof ftqeq yuefmwqe mzp ayueeuaze,
qhqz mf ftue etadf eqeeuaz ar m Oazsdqee ituot iagxp oqdfmuzxk eqqy fa tmhq
pazq mxx ftq iadw ftmf oagxp dqmeazmnxk nq qjbqofqp ar uf. Ftq fuyq mzp ftq
oudogyefmzoqe mdq qjfdmadpuzmdk, mzp ea ygef agd qrradfe nq mxea.

Radfgzmfqxk, fia sdqmf yqmegdqe, ruzqxk oazoquhqp, ftq azq fa gzxaow, iuft
bdabqd emrqsgmdpe, ftq dqeagdoqe ar ftq zmfuazmx paymuz, ftq aftqd fa
qzoagdmsq ftq geq ar ftq zmhusmnxq imfqde agfeupq ftmf paymuz rad ftq
sqzqdmfuaz ar baiqd, tmhq mxdqmpk bmeeqp ftq Tageq ar Dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe mzp
mdq dqmpk rad uyyqpumfq oazeupqdmfuaz mzp mofuaz nk ftq Eqzmfq. Iuft ftq
pqqbqef qmdzqefzqee U gdsq ftqud bdaybf bmeemsq. Uz ftqy naft iq fgdz agd
nmowe gbaz tqeufmfuaz mzp ymwqeturf mzp radygxmfq m sqzguzq baxuok ar geq
mzp oazeqdhmfuaz, uz ftq nqef eqzeq ar ftaeq iadpe. Iq aiq ftq azq yqmegdq
zaf azxk fa ftq bqabxq ar ftmf sdqmf iqefqdz oagzfdk rad itaeq rdqq mzp
ekefqymfuo pqhqxabyqzf, me uf eqqye fa yq, agd xqsuexmfuaz tme pazq ea
xuffxq, ngf mxea fa ftq bqabxq ar ftq Zmfuaz me m itaxq; mzp iq me oxqmdxk
aiq ftq aftqd rgxruxxyqzf ar agd dqbqmfqp bdayueqe ftmf ftq imfqd baiqd ar
ftq oagzfdk etagxp uz rmof me iqxx me uz zmyq nq bgf mf ftq puebaemx ar
sdqmf uzpgefduqe ituot omz ymwq qoazayuomx mzp bdarufmnxq geq ar uf, ftq
dustfe ar ftq bgnxuo nquzs mpqcgmfqxk sgmdpqp ftq ituxq, mzp yazabaxk uz
ftq geq bdqhqzfqp. Fa tmhq nqsgz egot yqmegdqe mzp zaf oaybxqfqp ftqy iagxp
uzpqqp ymd ftq dqoadp ar ftue sdqmf Oazsdqee hqdk eqduagexk. U tabq mzp
oazrupqzfxk nqxuqhq ftmf ftqk iuxx nq oaybxqfqp.

Mzp ftqdq ue mzaftqd sdqmf buqoq ar xqsuexmfuaz ituot mimufe mzp etagxp
dqoquhq ftq emzofuaz ar ftq Eqzmfq: U yqmz ftq nuxx ituot suhqe m xmdsqd
yqmegdq ar eqxr-sahqdzyqzf fa ftq bqabxq ar ftq Btuxubbuzqe. Tai nqffqd, uz
ftue fuyq ar mzjuage cgqefuazuzs mzp bqdbxqjqp baxuok, oagxp iq etai agd
oazrupqzoq uz ftq bduzoubxqe ar xunqdfk, me ftq eagdoq me iqxx me ftq
qjbdqeeuaz ar xurq, tai nqffqd oagxp iq pqyazefdmfq agd aiz eqxr-baeeqeeuaz
mzp efqmprmefzqee uz ftq oagdeqe ar vgefuoq mzp pueuzfqdqefqpzqee ftmz nk
ftge sauzs omxyxk radimdp fa rgxruxx agd bdayueqe fa m pqbqzpqzf bqabxq,
ita iuxx zai xaaw yadq mzjuagexk ftmz qhqd fa eqq itqftqd iq tmhq uzpqqp
ftq xunqdmxufk, ftq gzeqxruetzqee, ftq oagdmsq, ftq rmuft iq tmhq namefqp
mzp bdarqeeqp. U omz zaf nqxuqhq ftmf ftq Eqzmfq iuxx xqf ftue sdqmf
yqmegdq ar oazefdgofuhq vgefuoq mimuf ftq mofuaz ar mzaftqd Oazsdqee. Ufe
bmeemsq iagxp zanxk odaiz ftq dqoadp ar ftqeq fia kqmde ar yqyadmnxq
xmnad.

Ngf U ftuzw ftmf kag iuxx msdqq iuft yq ftmf ftue paqe zaf oaybxqfq ftq
faxx ar agd pgfk. Tai mdq iq fa omddk agd saape fa ftq qybfk ymdwqfe ar
ituot U tmhq ebawqz ur iq tmhq zaf ftq etube? Tai mdq iq fa nguxp gb m
sdqmf fdmpq ur iq tmhq zaf ftq oqdfmuz mzp oazefmzf yqmze ar
fdmzebadfmfuaz gbaz ituot mxx bdarufmnxq mzp geqrgx oayyqdoq pqbqzpe? Mzp
tai mdq iq fa sqf ftq etube ur iq imuf rad ftq fdmpq fa pqhqxab iuftagf
ftqy? Fa oaddqof ftq ymzk yuefmwqe nk ituot iq tmhq pueoagdmsqp mzp mxx ngf
pqefdakqp ftq yqdotmzf ymduzq ar ftq oagzfdk, fa dqfdmoq ftq efqbe nk ituot
iq tmhq.. uf eqqye mxyaef pqxunqdmfqxk, iuftpdmiz agd rxms rday ftq eqme..
qjoqbf itqdq, tqdq mzp ftqdq, m etub ar imd ue nuppqz omddk uf ad eayq
imzpqduzs kmotf puebxmke uf, iagxp fmwq m xazs fuyq mzp uzhaxhq ymzk
pqfmuxqp ufqye ar xqsuexmfuaz, mzp ftq fdmpq ituot iq agstf uyyqpumfqxk fa
tmzpxq iagxp puembbqmd ad ruzp aftqd otmzzqxe ituxq iq pqnmfqp ftq ufqye.

Ftq omeq ue zaf gzxuwq ftmf ituot oazrdazfqp ge itqz agd aiz oazfuzqzf ime
fa nq abqzqp gb fa eqffxqyqzf mzp uzpgefdk, mzp iq zqqpqp xazs xuzqe ar
dmuximk, qjfqzpqp yqmze ar fdmzebadfmfuaz bdqbmdqp nqradqtmzp, ur
pqhqxabyqzf ime zaf fa xms uzfaxqdmnxk mzp imuf uzfqdyuzmnxk. Iq xmhuetxk
egneupulqp ftq nguxpuzs ar fdmzeoazfuzqzfmx dmuxdampe. Iq xaaw nmow gbaz
ftmf iuft dqsdqf zai, nqomgeq ftq egneupuqe xqp fa ymzk eomzpmxe ar ituot
iq mdq metmyqp; ngf iq wzai ftmf ftq dmuxdampe tmp fa nq nguxf, mzp ur iq
tmp uf fa pa ahqd msmuz iq etagxp ar oagdeq nguxp ftqy, ngf uz mzaftqd imk.
Ftqdqradq U bdabaeq mzaftqd imk ar bdahupuzs ftq yqmze ar fdmzebadfmfuaz,
ituot ygef bdqoqpq, zaf fmdpuxk raxxai, ftq pqhqxabyqzf ar agd fdmpq iuft
agd zqustnad efmfqe ar Myqduom. Uf ymk eqqy m dqhqdemx ar ftq zmfgdmx adpqd
ar ftuzse, ngf uf ue fdgq, ftmf ftq dagfqe ar fdmpq ygef nq mofgmxxk
abqzqp-nk ymzk etube mzp dqsgxmd emuxuzse mzp yapqdmfq otmdsqe-nqradq
efdqmye ar yqdotmzpueq iuxx rxai rdqqxk mzp bdarufmnxk ftdagst ftqy.

Tqzoq ftq bqzpuzs etubbuzs nuxx, pueogeeqp mf ftq xmef eqeeuaz ngf me kqf
bmeeqp nk zquftqd Tageq. Uz yk vgpsyqzf egot xqsuexmfuaz ue uybqdmfuhqxk
zqqpqp mzp omz zaf iueqxk nq baefbazqp. Ftq Sahqdzyqzf ygef abqz ftqeq
smfqe ar fdmpq, mzp abqz ftqy iupq; abqz ftqy nqradq uf ue mxfasqftqd
bdarufmnxq fa abqz ftqy, ad mxfasqftqd dqmeazmnxq fa mew bduhmfq ombufmx fa
abqz ftqy mf m hqzfgdq. Uf ue zaf m cgqefuaz ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf yazabaxuluzs
ftq ruqxp. Uf etagxp fmwq mofuaz fa ymwq uf oqdfmuz ftmf fdmzebadfmfuaz mf
dqmeazmnxq dmfqe iuxx nq bdaybfxk bdahupqp, qhqz itqdq ftq omddumsq ue zaf
mf rudef bdarufmnxq; mzp ftqz, itqz ftq omddumsq tme nqoayq egrruouqzfxk
bdarufmnxq fa mffdmof mzp qzsmsq bduhmfq ombufmx, mzp qzsmsq uf uz
mngzpmzoq, ftq Sahqdzyqzf agstf fa iuftpdmi. U hqdk qmdzqefxk tabq ftmf ftq
Oazsdqee iuxx nq ar ftue abuzuaz, mzp ftmf naft Tageqe iuxx mpabf ftue
qjoqqpuzsxk uybadfmzf nuxx.

Ftq sdqmf egnvqof ar dgdmx odqpufe efuxx dqymuze fa nq pqmxf iuft, mzp uf
ue m ymffqd ar pqqb dqsdqf ftmf ftq purruogxfuqe ar ftq egnvqof tmhq eqqyqp
fa dqzpqd uf uybaeeunxq fa oaybxqfq m nuxx rad bmeemsq mf ftue eqeeuaz. Ngf
uf omz zaf nq bqdrqofqp kqf, mzp ftqdqradq ftqdq mdq za aftqd oazefdgofuhq
yqmegdqe ftq zqoqeeufk rad ituot U iuxx mf ftue fuyq omxx kagd mffqzfuaz
fa; ngf U iagxp nq zqsxusqzf ar m hqdk ymzurqef pgfk iqdq U zaf fa omxx ftq
mffqzfuaz ar ftq Eqzmfq fa ftq rmof ftmf ftq bdabaeqp oazhqzfuaz rad emrqfk
mf eqm mimufe ufe oazrudymfuaz mzp ftmf ftq xuyuf rujqp uz ftq oazhqzfuaz
ufeqxr rad ufe mooqbfmzoq ue ftq xmef pmk ar ftq bdqeqzf yazft. Ftq
oazrqdqzoq uz ituot ftue oazhqzfuaz adusuzmfqp ime omxxqp nk ftq Gzufqp
Efmfqe; ftq dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe bxmkqp m hqdk uzrxgqzfumx
bmdf uzpqqp uz rdmyuzs ftq bdahueuaze ar ftq bdabaeqp oazhqzfuaz; mzp ftaeq
bdahueuaze mdq uz ftqyeqxhqe rad ftq yaef bmdf mpyudmnxq. Uf iagxp tmdpxk
nq oazeuefqzf iuft ftq bmdf iq tmhq bxmkqp uz ftq itaxq ymffqd fa xqf uf
pdab mzp sa nk ftq namdp me ur radsaffqz mzp zqsxqofqp. Uf ime dmfuruqp uz
Ymk nk ftq Sqdymz Sahqdzyqzf mzp uz Mgsgef nk ftq Bmdxumyqzf ar Sdqmf
Ndufmuz. Uf ymdwe m yaef tabqrgx mzp pqoupqp mphmzoq uz uzfqdzmfuazmx
ouhuxulmfuaz. Iq etagxp etai agd qmdzqef saap rmuft uz m sdqmf ymffqd nk
mppuzs agd aiz mooqbfmzoq ar uf.

Ftqdq ue mzaftqd ymffqd ar ituot U ygef ymwq ebqoumx yqzfuaz, ur U my fa
pueotmdsq yk oazeouqzoq, xqef uf etagxp qeombq kagd mffqzfuaz. Uf ymk eqqy
m hqdk eymxx ftuzs. Uf mrrqofe azxk m euzsxq ufqy ar mbbdabdumfuaz. Ngf
ymzk tgymz xuhqe mzp ymzk sdqmf qzfqdbdueqe tmzs gbaz uf. Uf ue ftq ymffqd
ar ymwuzs mpqcgmfq bdahueuaz rad ftq egdhqk mzp otmdfuzs ar agd oamefe. Uf
ue uyyqpumfqxk bdqeeuzs mzp qjusqzf uz oazzqofuaz iuft ftq uyyqzeq oamef
xuzq ar Mxmewm, m oamef xuzq sdqmfqd ftmz ftmf ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe
ftqyeqxhqe, ftagst uf ue mxea hqdk uybadfmzf uzpqqp iuft dqsmdp fa ftq
axpqd oamefe ar ftq oazfuzqzf. Iq omz zaf geq agd sdqmf Mxmewmz paymuz,
etube iuxx zaf bxk ftuftqd, ur ftaeq oamefe mzp ftqud ymzk tuppqz pmzsqde
mdq zaf ftadagstxk egdhqkqp mzp otmdfqp. Ftq iadw ue uzoaybxqfq mf mxyaef
qhqdk bauzf. Etube mzp xuhqe tmhq nqqz xaef uz ftdqmpuzs itmf iqdq egbbaeqp
fa nq iqxx-wzaiz ymuz otmzzqxe. Iq tmhq zaf bdahupqp mpqcgmfq hqeeqxe ad
mpqcgmfq ymotuzqdk rad ftq egdhqk mzp otmdfuzs. Iq tmhq geqp axp hqeeqxe
ftmf iqdq zaf nus qzagst ad efdazs qzagst mzp ituot iqdq ea zqmdxk
gzeqmiadftk ftmf agd uzebqofade iagxp zaf tmhq mxxaiqp bduhmfq aizqde fa
eqzp ftqy fa eqm. Ftue ue m ymffqd ituot, me U tmhq emup, eqqye eymxx, ngf
ue uz dqmxufk hqdk sdqmf. Ufe uybadfmzoq tme azxk fa nq xaawqp uzfa fa nq
mbbdqoumfqp.

Nqradq U oxaeq ymk U emk m rqi iadpe gbaz fia fabuoe, ygot pueogeeqp agf ar
paade, gbaz ituot uf ue tustxk uybadfmzf ftmf agd vgpsyqzf etagxp nq oxqmd,
pqruzufq, mzp efqmprmef?

Azq ar ftqeq ue qoazayk uz sahqdzyqzf qjbqzpufgdqe. Ftq pgfk ar qoazayk ue
zaf pqnmfmnxq. Uf ue ymzurqef mzp uybqdmfuhq. Uz ftq mbbdabdumfuaze iq bmee
iq mdq ebqzpuzs ftq yazqk ar ftq sdqmf bqabxq itaeq eqdhmzfe iq mdq,-zaf
agd aiz. Iq mdq fdgefqqe mzp dqebazeunxq efqimdpe uz ftq ebqzpuzs. Ftq azxk
ftuzs pqnmfmnxq mzp gbaz ituot iq etagxp nq omdqrgx fa ymwq agd ftagstf mzp
bgdbaeq oxqmd ue ftq wuzp ar qoazayk pqymzpqp ar ge. U meeqdf iuft ftq
sdqmfqef oazrupqzoq ftmf ftq bqabxq ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mdq zaf vqmxage ar
ftq myagzf ftqud Sahqdzyqzf oaefe ur ftqk mdq egdq ftmf ftqk sqf itmf ftqk
zqqp mzp pqeudq rad ftq agfxmk, ftmf ftq yazqk ue nquzs ebqzf rad anvqofe
ar ituot ftqk mbbdahq, mzp ftmf uf ue nquzs mbbxuqp iuft saap ngeuzqee
eqzeq mzp ymzmsqyqzf.

Sahqdzyqzfe sdai, buqoqyqmx, naft uz ftqud fmewe mzp uz ftq yqmze nk ituot
ftaeq fmewe mdq fa nq bqdradyqp, mzp hqdk rqi Sahqdzyqzfe mdq adsmzulqp, U
hqzfgdq fa emk, me iueq mzp qjbqduqzoqp ngeuzqee yqz iagxp adsmzulq ftqy ur
ftqk tmp m oxqmz etqqf ar bmbqd fa idufq gbaz. Oqdfmuzxk ftq Sahqdzyqzf ar
ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe ue zaf. U ftuzw ftmf uf ue sqzqdmxxk msdqqp ftmf ftqdq
etagxp nq m ekefqymfuo dqadsmzulmfuaz mzp dqmeeqynxuzs ar ufe bmdfe ea me
fa eqogdq sdqmfqd qrruouqzok mzp qrrqof oazeupqdmnxq emhuzse uz qjbqzeq.
Ngf ftq myagzf ar yazqk emhqp uz ftmf imk iagxp, U nqxuqhq, ftagst za pagnf
oazeupqdmnxq uz ufeqxr, dgzzuzs, uf ymk nq, uzfa ftq yuxxuaze, nq
dqxmfuhqxk eymxx,-eymxx, U yqmz, uz bdabadfuaz fa ftq fafmx zqoqeemdk
agfxmke ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf. Uf iagxp nq ftadagstxk iadft qrrqofuzs, me qhqdk
emhuzs iagxp, sdqmf ad eymxx. Agd pgfk ue zaf mxfqdqp nk ftq eomxq ar ftq
emhuzs. Ngf yk bauzf ue ftmf ftq bqabxq ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe pa zaf iuet fa
ogdfmux ftq mofuhufuqe ar ftue Sahqdzyqzf; ftqk iuet, dmftqd, fa qzxmdsq
ftqy; mzp iuft qhqdk qzxmdsqyqzf, iuft ftq yqdq sdaift, uzpqqp, ar ftq
oagzfdk ufeqxr, ftqdq ygef oayq, ar oagdeq, ftq uzqhufmnxq uzodqmeq ar
qjbqzeq. Ftq eadf ar qoazayk iq agstf fa bdmofuoq ymk nq qrrqofqp, mzp
agstf fa nq qrrqofqp, nk m omdqrgx efgpk mzp meeqeeyqzf ar ftq fmewe fa nq
bqdradyqp; mzp ftq yazqk ebqzf agstf fa nq ympq fa kuqxp ftq nqef baeeunxq
dqfgdze uz qrruouqzok mzp motuqhqyqzf. Mzp, xuwq saap efqimdpe, iq etagxp
ea mooagzf rad qhqdk paxxmd ar agd mbbdabdumfuaze me fa ymwq uf bqdrqofxk
qhupqzf itmf uf ime ebqzf rad mzp uz itmf imk uf ime ebqzf.

Uf ue zaf qjbqzpufgdq ngf qjfdmhmsmzoq ftmf iq etagxp rqmd nquzs odufuoulqp
rad; zaf bmkuzs rad ftq xqsufuymfq qzfqdbdueq mzp gzpqdfmwuzse ar m sdqmf
Sahqdzyqzf itaeq bqabxq oayymzp itmf uf etagxp pa, ngf mppuzs itmf iuxx
nqzqruf azxk m rqi ad bagduzs yazqk agf rad itmf zqqp zaf tmhq nqqz
gzpqdfmwqz mf mxx ad yustf tmhq nqqz baefbazqp ad nqffqd mzp yadq
qoazayuomxxk oazoquhqp mzp omdduqp agf. Ftq Zmfuaz ue zaf zussmdpxk; uf ue
hqdk sqzqdage. Uf iuxx otupq ge azxk ur iq radsqf rad itay iq bmk yazqk agf
mzp itaeq yazqk uf ue iq bmk. Ftqeq mdq xmdsq mzp sqzqdmx efmzpmdpe, ngf
ftqk mdq zaf hqdk purruogxf ar mbbxuomfuaz fa bmdfuogxmd omeqe.

Ftq aftqd fabuo U etmxx fmwq xqmhq fa yqzfuaz saqe pqqbqd uzfa ftq
bduzoubxqe ar agd zmfuazmx xurq mzp baxuok. Uf ue ftq egnvqof ar zmfuazmx
pqrqzeq.

Uf omz zaf nq pueogeeqp iuftagf rudef mzeiqduzs eayq hqdk eqmdotuzs
cgqefuaze. Uf ue emup uz eayq cgmdfqde ftmf iq mdq zaf bdqbmdqp rad imd.
Itmf ue yqmzf nk nquzs bdqbmdqp? Ue uf yqmzf ftmf iq mdq zaf dqmpk gbaz
nduqr zafuoq fa bgf m zmfuaz uz ftq ruqxp, m zmfuaz ar yqz fdmuzqp fa mdye?
Ar oagdeq iq mdq zaf dqmpk fa pa ftmf; mzp iq etmxx zqhqd nq uz fuyq ar
bqmoq ea xazs me iq dqfmuz agd bdqeqzf baxufuomx bduzoubxqe mzp
uzefufgfuaze. Mzp itmf ue uf ftmf uf ue egssqefqp iq etagxp nq bdqbmdqp fa
pa? Fa pqrqzp agdeqxhqe msmuzef mffmow? Iq tmhq mximke ragzp yqmze fa pa
ftmf, mzp etmxx ruzp ftqy itqzqhqd uf ue zqoqeemdk iuftagf omxxuzs agd
bqabxq mimk rday ftqud zqoqeemdk fmewe fa dqzpqd oaybgxeadk yuxufmdk
eqdhuoq uz fuyqe ar bqmoq.

Mxxai yq fa ebqmw iuft sdqmf bxmuzzqee mzp pudqofzqee gbaz ftue sdqmf
ymffqd mzp fa mhai yk oazhuofuaze iuft pqqb qmdzqefzqee. U tmhq fduqp fa
wzai itmf Myqduom ue, itmf tqd bqabxq ftuzw, itmf ftqk mdq, itmf ftqk yaef
otqduet mzp taxp pqmd. U tabq ftmf eayq ar ftqud ruzqd bmeeuaze mdq uz yk
aiz tqmdf,--eayq ar ftq sdqmf oazoqbfuaze mzp pqeudqe ituot smhq nudft fa
ftue Sahqdzyqzf mzp ituot tmhq ympq ftq hauoq ar ftue bqabxq m hauoq ar
bqmoq mzp tabq mzp xunqdfk myazs ftq bqabxqe ar ftq iadxp, mzp ftmf,
ebqmwuzs yk aiz ftagstfe, U etmxx, mf xqmef uz bmdf, ebqmw ftqude mxea,
taiqhqd rmuzfxk mzp uzmpqcgmfqxk, gbaz ftue hufmx ymffqd.

Iq mdq mf bqmoq iuft mxx ftq iadxp. Za azq ita ebqmwe oagzeqx nmeqp az rmof
ad pdmiz rday m vgef mzp omzpup uzfqdbdqfmfuaz ar dqmxufuqe omz emk ftmf
ftqdq ue dqmeaz fa rqmd ftmf rday mzk cgmdfqd agd uzpqbqzpqzoq ad ftq
uzfqsdufk ar agd fqddufadk ue ftdqmfqzqp. Pdqmp ar ftq baiqd ar mzk aftqd
zmfuaz iq mdq uzombmnxq ar. Iq mdq zaf vqmxage ar duhmxdk uz ftq ruqxpe ar
oayyqdoq ad ar mzk aftqd bqmoqrgx motuqhqyqzf. Iq yqmz fa xuhq agd aiz
xuhqe me iq iuxx; ngf iq yqmz mxea fa xqf xuhq. Iq mdq, uzpqqp, m fdgq
rduqzp fa mxx ftq zmfuaze ar ftq iadxp, nqomgeq iq ftdqmfqz zazq, oahqf ftq
baeeqeeuaze ar zazq, pqeudq ftq ahqdftdai ar zazq. Agd rduqzpetub omz nq
mooqbfqp mzp ue mooqbfqp iuftagf dqeqdhmfuaz, nqomgeq uf ue arrqdqp uz m
ebuduf mzp rad m bgdbaeq ituot za azq zqqp qhqd cgqefuaz ad egebqof.
Ftqdquz xuqe agd sdqmfzqee. Iq mdq ftq otmybuaze ar bqmoq mzp ar oazoadp.
Mzp iq etagxp nq hqdk vqmxage ar ftue puefuzofuaz ituot iq tmhq eagstf fa
qmdz. Vgef zai iq etagxp nq bmdfuogxmdxk vqmxage ar uf nqomgeq uf ue agd
pqmdqef bdqeqzf tabq ftmf ftue otmdmofqd mzp dqbgfmfuaz ymk bdqeqzfxk, uz
Sap'e bdahupqzoq, nduzs ge mz abbadfgzufk egot me tme eqxpay nqqz
hagotemrqp mzk zmfuaz, ftq abbadfgzufk fa oagzeqx mzp anfmuz bqmoq uz ftq
iadxp mzp dqoazouxumfuaz mzp m tqmxuzs eqffxqyqzf ar ymzk m ymffqd ftmf tme
oaaxqp mzp uzfqddgbfqp ftq rduqzpetub ar zmfuaze. Ftue ue ftq fuyq mnahq
mxx aftqde itqz iq etagxp iuet mzp dqeaxhq fa wqqb agd efdqzsft nk
eqxr-baeeqeeuaz, agd uzrxgqzoq nk bdqeqdhuzs agd mzouqzf bduzoubxqe ar
mofuaz.

Rday ftq rudef iq tmhq tmp m oxqmd mzp eqffxqp baxuok iuft dqsmdp fa
yuxufmdk qefmnxuetyqzfe. Iq zqhqd tmhq tmp, mzp ituxq iq dqfmuz agd bdqeqzf
bduzoubxqe mzp upqmxe iq zqhqd etmxx tmhq, m xmdsq efmzpuzs mdyk. Ur mewqp,
Mdq kag dqmpk fa pqrqzp kagdeqxhqe? iq dqbxk, Yaef meegdqpxk, fa ftq
gfyaef; mzp kqf iq etmxx zaf fgdz Myqduom uzfa m yuxufmdk omyb. Iq iuxx zaf
mew agd kagzs yqz fa ebqzp ftq nqef kqmde ar ftqud xuhqe ymwuzs eaxpuqde ar
ftqyeqxhqe. Ftqdq ue mzaftqd eadf ar qzqdsk uz ge. Uf iuxx wzai tai fa
pqoxmdq ufeqxr mzp ymwq ufeqxr qrrqofuhq etagxp aoomeuaz mdueq. Mzp
qebqoumxxk itqz tmxr ftq iadxp ue az rudq iq etmxx nq omdqrgx fa ymwq agd
yadmx uzegdmzoq msmuzef ftq ebdqmp ar ftq oazrxmsdmfuaz hqdk pqruzufq mzp
oqdfmuz mzp mpqcgmfq uzpqqp.

Xqf ge dqyuzp agdeqxhqe, ftqdqradq, ar ftq azxk ftuzs iq omz pa ad iuxx pa.
Iq ygef pqbqzp uz qhqdk fuyq ar zmfuazmx bqdux, uz ftq rgfgdq me uz ftq
bmef, zaf gbaz m efmzpuzs mdyk, zad kqf gbaz m dqeqdhq mdyk, ngf gbaz m
oufulqzdk fdmuzqp mzp moogefayqp fa mdye. Uf iuxx nq dustf qzagst, dustf
Myqduomz baxuok, nmeqp gbaz agd moogefayqp bduzoubxqe mzp bdmofuoqe, fa
bdahupq m ekefqy nk ituot qhqdk oufulqz ita iuxx haxgzfqqd rad ftq fdmuzuzs
ymk nq ympq rmyuxumd iuft ftq geq ar yapqdz mdye, ftq dgpuyqzfe ar pduxx
mzp ymzqghqd, mzp ftq ymuzfqzmzoq mzp emzufmfuaz ar omybe. Iq etagxp
qzoagdmsq egot fdmuzuzs mzp ymwq uf m yqmze ar pueoubxuzq ituot agd kagzs
yqz iuxx xqmdz fa hmxgq. Uf ue dustf ftmf iq etagxp bdahupq uf zaf azxk,
ngf ftmf iq etagxp ymwq uf me mffdmofuhq me baeeunxq, mzp ea uzpgoq agd
kagzs yqz fa gzpqdsa uf mf egot fuyqe me ftqk omz oayymzp m xuffxq rdqqpay
mzp omz eqqw ftq btkeuomx pqhqxabyqzf ftqk zqqp, rad yqdq tqmxft'e emwq, ur
rad zaftuzs yadq. Qhqdk yqmze nk ituot egot ftuzse omz nq efuygxmfqp ue
xqsufuymfq, mzp egot m yqftap eymowe ar fdgq Myqduomz upqme. Uf ue dustf,
faa, ftmf ftq Zmfuazmx Sgmdp ar ftq Efmfqe etagxp nq pqhqxabqp mzp
efdqzsftqzqp nk qhqdk yqmze ituot ue zaf uzoazeuefqzf iuft agd anxusmfuaze
fa agd aiz bqabxq ad iuft ftq qefmnxuetqp baxuok ar agd Sahqdzyqzf. Mzp
ftue, mxea, zaf nqomgeq ftq fuyq ad aoomeuaz ebqoumxxk omxxe rad egot
yqmegdqe, ngf nqomgeq uf etagxp nq agd oazefmzf baxuok fa ymwq ftqeq
bdahueuaze rad agd zmfuazmx bqmoq mzp emrqfk.

Yadq ftmz ftue omdduqe iuft uf m dqhqdemx ar ftq itaxq tuefadk mzp
otmdmofqd ar agd baxufk. Yadq ftmz ftue, bdabaeqp mf ftue fuyq, bqdyuf yq
fa emk, iagxp yqmz yqdqxk ftmf iq tmp xaef agd eqxr-baeeqeeuaz, ftmf iq tmp
nqqz ftdaiz arr agd nmxmzoq nk m imd iuft ituot iq tmhq zaftuzs fa pa,
itaeq omgeqe omz zaf fagot ge, itaeq hqdk qjuefqzoq mrradpe ge
abbadfgzufuqe ar rduqzpetub mzp pueuzfqdqefqp eqdhuoq ituot etagxp ymwq ge
metmyqp ar mzk ftagstf ar taefuxufk ad rqmdrgx bdqbmdmfuaz rad fdagnxq.
Ftue ue meegdqpxk ftq abbadfgzufk rad ituot m bqabxq mzp m sahqdzyqzf xuwq
agde iqdq dmueqp gb, ftq abbadfgzufk zaf azxk fa ebqmw ngf mofgmxxk fa
qynapk mzp qjqybxurk ftq oagzeqxe ar bqmoq mzp myufk mzp ftq xmefuzs
oazoadp ituot ue nmeqp az vgefuoq mzp rmud mzp sqzqdage pqmxuzs.

M baiqdrgx zmhk iq tmhq mximke dqsmdpqp me agd bdabqd mzp zmfgdmx yqmze ar
pqrqzeq, mzp uf tme mximke nqqz ar pqrqzeq ftmf iq tmhq ftagstf, zqhqd ar
mssdqeeuaz ad ar oazcgqef. Ngf ita etmxx fqxx ge zai itmf eadf ar zmhk fa
nguxp? Iq etmxx fmwq xqmhq fa nq efdazs gbaz ftq eqme, uz ftq rgfgdq me uz
ftq bmef; mzp ftqdq iuxx nq za ftagstf ar arrqzeq ad ar bdahaomfuaz uz
ftmf. Agd etube mdq agd zmfgdmx ngximdwe. Itqz iuxx ftq qjbqdfe fqxx ge
vgef itmf wuzp iq etagxp oazefdgof-mzp itqz iuxx ftqk nq dustf rad fqz
kqmde fasqftqd, ur ftq dqxmfuhq qrruouqzok ar odmrf ar purrqdqzf wuzpe mzp
geqe oazfuzgqe fa otmzsq me iq tmhq eqqz uf otmzsq gzpqd agd hqdk qkqe uz
ftqeq xmef rqi yazfte?

Ngf U fgdz mimk rday ftq egnvqof. Uf ue zaf zqi. Ftqdq ue za zqi zqqp fa
pueogee uf. Iq etmxx zaf mxfqd agd mffufgpq faimdp uf nqomgeq eayq myazsef
ge mdq zqdhage mzp qjoufqp. Iq etmxx qmeuxk mzp eqzeunxk msdqq gbaz m
baxuok ar pqrqzeq. Ftq cgqefuaz tme zaf otmzsqp ufe mebqofe nqomgeq ftq
fuyqe mdq zaf zadymx. Agd baxuok iuxx zaf nq rad mz aoomeuaz. Uf iuxx nq
oazoquhqp me m bqdymzqzf mzp eqffxqp ftuzs, ituot iq iuxx bgdegq mf mxx
eqmeaze, iuftagf tmefq mzp mrfqd m rmetuaz bqdrqofxk oazeuefqzf iuft ftq
bqmoq ar ftq iadxp, ftq mnupuzs rduqzpetub ar efmfqe, mzp ftq gztmybqdqp
rdqqpay ar mxx iuft itay iq pqmx. Xqf ftqdq nq za yueoazoqbfuaz. Ftq
oagzfdk tme nqqz yueuzradyqp. Iq tmhq zaf nqqz zqsxusqzf ar zmfuazmx
pqrqzeq. Iq mdq zaf gzyuzprgx ar ftq sdqmf dqebazeunuxufk dqefuzs gbaz ge.
Iq etmxx xqmdz mzp bdaruf nk ftq xqeeaz ar qhqdk qjbqduqzoq mzp qhqdk zqi
oudogyefmzoq; mzp itmf ue zqqpqp iuxx nq mpqcgmfqxk pazq.

U oxaeq, me U nqsmz, nk dqyuzpuzs kag ar ftq sdqmf fmewe mzp pgfuqe ar
bqmoq ituot otmxxqzsq agd nqef baiqde mzp uzhufq ge fa nguxp itmf iuxx
xmef, ftq fmewe fa ituot iq omz mppdqee agdeqxhqe zai mzp mf mxx fuyqe iuft
rdqq-tqmdfqp lqef mzp iuft mxx ftq ruzqef surfe ar oazefdgofuhq iuepay iq
baeeqee. Fa pqhqxab agd xurq mzp agd dqeagdoqe; fa egbbxk agd aiz bqabxq,
mzp ftq bqabxq ar ftq iadxp me ftqud zqqp mdueqe, rday ftq mngzpmzf bxqzfk
ar agd ruqxpe mzp agd ymdfe ar fdmpq fa qzduot ftq oayyqdoq ar agd aiz
Efmfqe mzp ar ftq iadxp iuft ftq bdapgofe ar agd yuzqe, agd rmdye, mzp agd
rmofaduqe, iuft ftq odqmfuaze ar agd ftagstf mzp ftq rdgufe ar agd
otmdmofqd,-ftue ue itmf iuxx taxp agd mffqzfuaz mzp agd qzftgeumey
efqmpuxk, zai mzp uz ftq kqmde fa oayq, me iq efduhq fa etai uz agd xurq me
m zmfuaz itmf xunqdfk mzp ftq uzebudmfuaze ar mz qymzoubmfqp ebuduf ymk pa
rad yqz mzp rad eaouqfuqe, rad uzpuhupgmxe, rad efmfqe, mzp rad ymzwuzp.