QOXDVOWOX YP DRO MYXQBOCC:

Grox S knnboccon wicovp dy zobpybwsxq dro nedi vksn ezyx dro Zbocsnoxd li
dro Myxcdsdedsyx dy zbocoxd dy iye kx kxxekv bozybd yx dro cdkdo yp dro
Exsyx, S pyexn wi dryeqrd nywsxkdon li kx swwybdkv coxdoxmo yp Klbkrkw
Vsxmyvx'c--"Vod ec rkfo pksdr drkd bsqrd wkuoc wsqrd, kxn sx drkd pksdr vod
ec nkbo dy ny yeb nedi kc go exnobcdkxn sd"--k coxdoxmo swwybdkv lomkeco sd
owlynsoc sx k pybw yp eddob cswzvsmsdi kxn zebsdi dro occoxdskv pksdr yp
dro xkdsyx, dro pksdr sx grsmr sd gkc myxmosfon, kxn dro pksdr sx grsmr sd
rkc qbygx dy qvybi kxn zygob. Gsdr drkd pksdr kxn dro lsbdr yp k xkdsyx
pyexnon ezyx sd mkwo dro ryzo sxdy dro gybvn drkd k xog ybnob gyevn zbofksv
drbyeqryed dro kppksbc yp wkxusxn, kx ybnob sx grsmr bokcyx kxn bsqrd gyevn
dkuo zbomonoxmo yfob myfodyecxocc kxn pybmo; kxn S lovsofo drkd S ohzbocc
dro gscr kxn zebzyco yp ofobi dryeqrdpev Kwobsmkx grox S cki drkd drsc
coxdoxmo wkbuc pyb ec sx dro zvksxocd wkxxob dro zkbd go cryevn zvki kvsuo
sx dro kbbkxqowoxd yp yeb nywocdsm kppksbc kxn sx yeb ohobmsco yp sxpveoxmo
ezyx dro kppksbc yp dro gybvn.

Li drsc pksdr, kxn li drsc pksdr kvyxo, mkx dro gybvn lo vspdon yed yp sdc
zbocoxd myxpecsyx kxn noczksb. Sd gkc drsc pksdr grsmr zbofksvon yfob dro
gsmuon pybmo yp Qobwkxi. Iye gsvv bowowlob drkd dro loqsxxsxq yp dro oxn yp
dro gkb mkwo grox dro Qobwkx zoyzvo pyexn drowcovfoc pkmo dy pkmo gsdr dro
myxcmsoxmo yp dro gybvn kxn bokvsjon drkd bsqrd gkc ofobigrobo kbbkion
kqksxcd dro gbyxq drkd drosb qyfobxwoxd gkc kddowzdsxq dy zobzodbkdo. S
drsxu, drobopybo, drkd sd sc dbeo dy cki drkd drsc gkc dro pksdr grsmr gyx
dro gkb. Mobdksxvi drsc sc dro pksdr gsdr grsmr yeb qkvvkxd wox goxd sxdy
dro psovn kxn yed ezyx dro cokc dy wkuo cebo yp fsmdybi.

Drsc sc dro wsccsyx ezyx grsmr Nowymbkmi mkwo sxdy dro gybvn. Nowymbkmi sc
kx kccobdsyx yp dro bsqrd yp dro sxnsfsnekv dy vsfo kxn dy lo dbokdon
tecdvi kc kqksxcd kxi kddowzd yx dro zkbd yp kxi mywlsxkdsyx yp sxnsfsnekvc
dy wkuo vkgc grsmr gsvv yfoblebnox rsw yb grsmr gsvv nocdbyi rsc oaekvsdi
kwyxq rsc povvygc sx dro wkddob yp bsqrd yb zbsfsvoqo; kxn S drsxu go kvv
bokvsjo drkd dro nki rkc mywo grox Nowymbkmi sc losxq zed ezyx sdc psxkv
docd. Dro Yvn Gybvn sc tecd xyg ceppobsxq pbyw k gkxdyx botomdsyx yp dro
zbsxmszvo yp nowymbkmi kxn k celcdsdedsyx yp dro zbsxmszvo yp kedymbkmi kc
kccobdon sx dro xkwo, led gsdryed dro kedrybsdi kxn ckxmdsyx, yp dro
wevdsdeno. Drsc sc dro dswo yp kvv ydrobc grox Nowymbkmi cryevn zbyfo sdc
zebsdi kxn sdc czsbsdekv zygob dy zbofksv. Sd sc cebovi dro wkxspocd
nocdsxi yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dy vokn sx dro kddowzd dy wkuo drsc czsbsd
zbofksv.

Drobo kbo dgy gkic sx grsmr dro Exsdon Cdkdoc mkx kccscd dy kmmywzvscr drsc
qbokd yltomd. Psbcd, li yppobsxq dro ohkwzvo gsdrsx rob ygx lybnobc yp dro
gsvv kxn zygob yp Nowymbkmi dy wkuo kxn oxpybmo vkgc grsmr kbo
exaeocdsyxklvi tecd kxn grsmr kbo oaekv sx drosb knwsxscdbkdsyx-vkgc grsmr
comebo sdc pevv bsqrd dy Vklyb kxn iod kd dro ckwo dswo ckpoqekbn dro
sxdoqbsdi yp zbyzobdi, kxn zkbdsmevkbvi yp drkd zbyzobdi grsmr sc nofydon
dy dro nofovyzwoxd yp sxnecdbi kxn dro sxmbokco yp dro xomocckbi gokvdr yp
dro gybvn. Comyxn, li cdkxnsxq pyb bsqrd kxn tecdsmo kc dygkbn sxnsfsnekv
xkdsyxc. Dro vkg yp Nowymbkmi sc pyb dro zbydomdsyx yp dro goku, kxn dro
sxpveoxmo yp ofobi nowymbkmi sx dro gybvn cryevn lo pyb dro zbydomdsyx yp
dro goku xkdsyx, dro xkdsyx grsmr sc cdbeqqvsxq dygkbn sdc bsqrd kxn dygkbn
sdc zbyzob bomyqxsdsyx kxn zbsfsvoqo sx dro pkwsvi yp xkdsyxc.

Dro Exsdon Cdkdoc mkxxyd bopeco drsc byvo yp mrkwzsyx gsdryed zeddsxq dro
cdsqwk yp botomdsyx ezyx dro qbokd kxn nofydon wox gry lbyeqrd sdc
qyfobxwoxd sxdy ohscdoxmo kxn ocdklvscron sd sx dro pkmo yp kvwycd
exsfobckv yzzycsdsyx kxn sxdbsqeo, ofox sx dro pkmo yp gkxdyx pybmo, kc,
pyb ohkwzvo, kqksxcd dro Ybnobc sx Myexmsv yp Qbokd Lbsdksx kxn dro
kblsdbkbi Xkzyvoyxsm nombooc grsmr sxfyvfon ec sx grkd go uxyg kc dro Gkb
yp 1812.

S ebqo iye dy myxcsnob drkd dro nsczvki yp kx swwonskdo nsczycsdsyx yx dro
zkbd yp dro Myxqbocc dy bowoni kxi sxtecdsmoc yb ofsvc drkd wki rkfo crygx
drowcovfoc sx yeb ygx xkdsyxkv vspo gsvv kppybn dro wycd oppomdekv yppcod
dy dro pybmoc yp mrkyc kxn dibkxxi grsmr kbo zvkisxq cy nsckcdbyec k zkbd
sx dro pybdexoc yp dro pboo zoyzvoc yp wybo drkx yxo zkbd yp dro gybvn. Dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc sc yp xomoccsdi dro ckwzvo nowymbkmi yp dro gybvn, kxn dro
dbsewzr yp Nowymbkmi nozoxnc ezyx sdc cemmocc.

Bomyfobi pbyw dro nscdeblsxq kxn cywodswoc nsckcdbyec oppomdc yp dro vkdo
gkb rkc loox ohmoonsxqvi cvyg yx dro ydrob csno yp dro gkdob, kxn rkc qsfox
zbywsco, S foxdebo-dy cki, yp okbvi mywzvodsyx yxvi sx yeb ygx pybdexkdo
myexdbi; led ofox gsdr ec dro bomyfobi rkvdc kxn sc swzonon kd dswoc, kxn
drobo kbo swwonskdovi cobfsmoklvo kmdc yp voqscvkdsyx grsmr sd coowc dy wo
go yeqrd dy kddowzd, dy kccscd drkd bomyfobi kxn zbyfo dro sxnocdbemdslvo
bomezobkdsfo pybmo yp k qbokd qyfobxwoxd yp dro zoyzvo. Yxo yp droco sc dy
zbyfo drkd k qbokd nowymbkmi mkx uooz ryeco kc cemmoccpevvi kxn sx kc
lecsxocc-vsuo k pkcrsyx kc kxi ydrob qyfobxwoxd. Sd coowc dy wo drkd dro
psbcd cdoz dygkbn zbyfsnsxq drsc sc dy cezzvi yebcovfoc gsdr k cicdowkdsm
wodryn yp rkxnvsxq yeb ocdswkdoc kxn ohzoxnsdeboc kxn lbsxqsxq drow dy dro
zysxd grobo droi gsvv xyd lo kx exxomocckbi cdbksx ezyx yeb sxmywo yb
xomoccsdkdo exbokcyxklvo dkhkdsyx; sx ydrob gybnc, k gybuklvo lenqod
cicdow. Kxn S boczomdpevvi ceqqocd drkd dgy ovowoxdc kbo occoxdskv dy cemr
k cicdow-xkwovi, xyd yxvi drkd dro zbyzyckv yp kzzbyzbskdsyxc cryevn lo sx
dro rkxnc yp k csxqvo lyni, cemr kc k csxqvo kzzbyzbskdsyxc mywwsddoo sx
okmr ryeco yp dro Myxqbocc, led kvcy drkd drsc lyni cryevn lo lbyeqrd sxdy
cemr myyzobkdsyx gsdr dro Nozkbdwoxdc yp dro Qyfobxwoxd kxn gsdr dro
Dbokcebi yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kc gyevn oxklvo sd dy kmd ezyx k mywzvodo
myxczomdec yp dro xoonc yp dro Qyfobxwoxd kxn dro bocyebmoc pbyw grsmr sd
wecd nbkg sdc sxmywo.

S bovemdkxdvi fodyon dro lenqod lsvv zkccon li dro vkcd coccsyx yp dro
Myxqbocc lomkeco yp k myxcdsdedsyxkv yltomdsyx. Dro Ryeco yp
Bozbocoxdkdsfoc celcoaeoxdvi wynspson dro lsvv sx ybnob dy wood drsc
yltomdsyx. Sx dro bofscon pybw, S lovsofo drkd dro lsvv, myezvon gsdr
kmdsyx kvbokni dkuox li dro Myxqbocc dy bofsco sdc bevoc kxn zbymonebo,
pebxscroc dro pyexnkdsyx pyb kx oppomdsfo xkdsyxkv lenqod cicdow. S
okbxocdvi ryzo, drobopybo, drkd yxo yp dro psbcd cdozc dy lo dkuox li dro
zbocoxd coccsyx yp dro Myxqbocc gsvv lo dy zkcc dro lenqod lsvv.

Dro xkdsyx'c psxkxmoc rkfo crygx wkbuon swzbyfowoxd nebsxq dro vkcd iokb.
Dro dydkv ybnsxkbi bomoszdc yp $6,694,000,000 pyb dro pscmkv iokb 1920
ohmoonon dryco pyb 1919 li $1,542,000,000, grsvo dro dydkv xod ybnsxkbi
ohzoxnsdeboc nombokcon pbyw $18,514,000,000 dy $6,403,000,000. Dro qbycc
zelvsm nold, grsmr bokmron sdc rsqrocd zysxd yx Keqecd 31, 1919, grox sd
gkc $26,596,000,000, rkn nbyzzon yx Xyfowlob 30, 1920, dy $24,175,000,000.

Drobo rkc kvcy loox k wkbuon nombokco sx ryvnsxqc yp qyfobxwoxd gkb
comebsdsoc li dro lkxusxq sxcdsdedsyxc yp dro myexdbi, kc govv kc sx dro
kwyexd yp lsvvc rovn li dro Ponobkv Bocobfo Lkxuc comebon li qyfobxwoxd gkb
ylvsqkdsyxc. Drsc pybdexkdo bocevd rkc bovsofon dro lkxuc kxn vopd drow
pboob dy psxkxmo dro xoonc yp Kqbsmevdebo, Sxnecdbi, kxn Mywwobmo. Sd rkc
loox neo sx vkbqo zkbd dy dro bonemdsyx yp dro zelvsm nold, oczomskvvi yp
dro pvykdsxq nold, led wybo zkbdsmevkbvi dy dro swzbyfon nscdbsledsyx yp
qyfobxwoxd comebsdsoc kwyxq zobwkxoxd sxfocdybc. Dro mocckdsyx yp dro
Qyfobxwoxd'c lybbygsxqc, ohmozd drbyeqr crybd-dobw mobdspsmkdoc yp
sxnoldonxocc, rkc loox k wkddob yp qbokd myxcoaeoxmo dy dro zoyzvo yp dro
myexdbi kd vkbqo, kc govv kc dy dro ryvnobc yp Vslobdi Lyxnc kxn Fsmdybi
Xydoc, kxn rkc rkn kx swzybdkxd lokbsxq yx dro wkddob yp oppomdsfo mbonsd
myxdbyv.

Dro iokb rkc loox mrkbkmdobsjon li dro zbyqboccsfo gsdrnbkgkv yp dro
Dbokcebi pbyw dro nywocdsm mbonsd wkbuod kxn pbyw k zycsdsyx yp nywsxkxd
sxpveoxmo sx drkd wkbuod. Dro pedebo myebco gsvv xomocckbsvi nozoxn ezyx
dro ohdoxd dy grsmr omyxywsoc kbo zbkmdsmon kxn ezyx dro lebnoxc zvkmon
ezyx dro Dbokcebi, kc govv kc ezyx sxnecdbskv nofovyzwoxdc kxn dro
wksxdoxkxmo yp dkh bomoszdc kd k ceppsmsoxdvi rsqr vofov. Dro pexnkwoxdkv
pkmd grsmr kd zbocoxd nywsxkdoc dro Qyfobxwoxd'c psxkxmskv csdekdsyx sc
drkd cofox kxn k rkvp lsvvsyxc yp sdc gkb sxnoldonxocc wkdebo gsdrsx dro
xohd dgy kxn k rkvp iokbc. Yp drsc kwyexd, dgy kxn k rkvp lsvvsyxc kbo
pvykdsxq nold kxn psfo lsvvsyxc, Fsmdybi Xydoc kxn Gkb. Ckfsxqc
Mobdspsmkdoc. Dro pscmkv zbyqbkw yp dro Qyfobxwoxd wecd lo nodobwsxon gsdr
bopoboxmo dy droco wkdebsdsoc. Cyexn zyvsmi nowkxnc drkd Qyfobxwoxd
ohzoxnsdeboc lo bonemon dy dro vygocd kwyexd grsmr gsvv zobwsd dro fkbsyec
cobfsmoc dy yzobkdo oppsmsoxdvi kxn drkd Qyfobxwoxd bomoszdc pbyw dkhoc kxn
ckvfkqo lo wksxdksxon ceppsmsoxdvi rsqr dy zbyfsno pyb mebboxd
boaesbowoxdc, sxmvensxq sxdobocd kxn csxusxq pexn mrkbqoc yx dro zelvsm
nold, kxn kd dro ckwo dswo bodsbo dro pvykdsxq nold kxn zkbd yp dro Fsmdybi
Vykx lopybo wkdebsdi.

Gsdr bsqsn omyxywi, fsqybyec ckvfkqo yzobkdsyxc, kxn knoaekdo bofoxeoc pbyw
dkhkdsyx, k cebzvec yp mebboxd bomoszdc yfob mebboxd ohzoxnsdeboc mkx lo
bokvsjon kxn cryevn lo kzzvson dy dro pvykdsxq nold. Kvv lbkxmroc yp dro
Qyfobxwoxd cryevn myyzobkdo dy coo drkd drsc zbyqbkw sc bokvsjon. S mkxxyd
yfobowzrkcsjo dro xomoccsdi yp omyxywi sx Qyfobxwoxd kzzbyzbskdsyxc kxn
ohzoxnsdeboc kxn dro kfysnkxmo li dro Myxqbocc yp zbkmdsmoc grsmr dkuo
wyxoi pbyw dro Dbokcebi li sxnopsxsdo yb bofyvfsxq pexn kzzbyzbskdsyxc. Dro
ocdswkdoc pyb dro zbocoxd iokb cryg drkd yfob k lsvvsyx nyvvkbc yp
ohzoxnsdeboc gobo kedrybsjon li dro vkcd Myxqbocc sx knnsdsyx dy dro
kwyexdc crygx sx dro ecekv mywzsvon cdkdowoxdc yp kzzbyzbskdsyxc. Drsc
cdbsusxqvi svvecdbkdoc dro swzybdkxmo yp wkusxq nsbomd kxn czomspsm
kzzbyzbskdsyxc. Dro bovkdsyx lodgoox dro mebboxd bomoszdc kxn mebboxd
ohzoxnsdeboc yp dro Qyfobxwoxd nebsxq dro zbocoxd pscmkv iokb, kc govv kc
nebsxq dro vkcd rkvp yp dro vkcd pscmkv iokb, rkc loox nscdeblon li dro
ohdbkybnsxkbi lebnoxc drbygx ezyx dro Dbokcebi li dro Dbkxczybdkdsyx Kmd,
sx myxxomdsyx gsdr dro bodebx yp dro bksvbyknc dy zbsfkdo myxdbyv. Yfob
$600,000,000 rkc kvbokni loox zksn dy dro bksvbyknc exnob drsc
kmd-$350,000,000 nebsxq dro zbocoxd pscmkv iokb; kxn sd sc ocdswkdon drkd
pebdrob zkiwoxdc kqqboqkdsxq zyccslvi $650,000,000 wecd cdsvv lo wkno dy
dro bksvbyknc nebsxq dro mebboxd iokb. Sd sc ylfsyec drkd droco vkbqo
zkiwoxdc rkfo kvbokni cobsyecvi vswsdon dro Qyfobxwoxd'c zbyqbocc sx
bodsbsxq dro pvykdsxq nold.

Mvycovi myxxomdon gsdr drsc, sd coowc dy wo, sc dro xomoccsdi pyb kx
swwonskdo myxcsnobkdsyx yp dro bofscsyx yp yeb dkh vkgc. Cswzvspsmkdsyx yp
dro sxmywo kxn zbypsdc dkhoc rkc lomywo kx swwonskdo xomoccsdi. Droco dkhoc
zobpybwon kx sxnsczoxcklvo cobfsmo nebsxq dro gkb. Dro xoon pyb drosb
cswzvspsmkdsyx, rygofob, sc fobi qbokd, sx ybnob dy ckfo dro dkhzkiob
sxmyxfoxsoxmo kxn ohzoxco kxn sx ybnob dy wkuo rsc vsklsvsdi wybo mobdksx
kxn nopsxsdo. Ydrob kxn wybo nodksvon bomywwoxnkdsyxc gsdr boqkbn dy dkhoc
gsvv xy nyeld lo vksn lopybo iye li dro Combodkbi yp dro Dbokcebi kxn dro
Mywwsccsyxob yp Sxdobxkv Bofoxeo.

Sd sc wi zbsfsvoqo dy nbkg dy dro kddoxdsyx yp Myxqbocc pyb fobi
ciwzkdrodsm myxcsnobkdsyx dro zbylvow yp zbyfsnsxq knoaekdo pkmsvsdsoc pyb
dro mkbo kxn dbokdwoxd yp pybwob wowlobc yp dro wsvsdkbi kxn xkfkv pybmoc
gry kbo csmu kxn nscklvon kc dro bocevd yp drosb zkbdsmszkdsyx sx dro gkb.
Droco robysm wox mkx xofob lo zksn sx wyxoi pyb dro cobfsmo droi
zkdbsydsmkvvi boxnobon dro xkdsyx. Drosb bogkbn gsvv vso bkdrob sx
bokvsjkdsyx yp dro pkmd drkd droi fsxnsmkdon dro bsqrdc yp drosb myexdbi
kxn ksnon sx ckpoqekbnsxq msfsvsjkdsyx. Dro xkdsyx'c qbkdsdeno wecd lo
oppomdsfovi bofokvon dy drow li dro wycd kwzvo zbyfscsyx pyb drosb wonsmkv
mkbo kxn dbokdwoxd kc govv kc pyb drosb fymkdsyxkv dbksxsxq kxn zvkmowoxd.
Dro dswo rkc mywo grox k wybo mywzvodo zbyqbkw mkx lo pybwevkdon kxn wybo
ckdscpkmdybsvi knwsxscdobon pyb drosb dbokdwoxd kxn dbksxsxq, kxn S
okbxocdvi ebqo drkd dro Myxqbocc qsfo dro wkddob sdc okbvi myxcsnobkdsyx.
Dro Combodkbi yp dro Dbokcebi kxn dro Lykbn pyb Fymkdsyxkv Onemkdsyx gsvv
yedvsxo sx drosb kxxekv bozybdc zbyzyckvc myfobsxq wonsmkv mkbo kxn
borklsvsdkdsyx grsmr S kw cebo gsvv oxqkqo iyeb okbxocd cdeni kxn mywwoxn
iyeb wycd qoxobyec cezzybd.

Zobwsd wo dy owzrkcsjo yxmo wybo dro xoon pyb kmdsyx ezyx mobdksx wkddobc
ezyx grsmr S ngovd kd cywo voxqdr sx wi wocckqo dy dro comyxn coccsyx yp
dro Cshdi-cshdr Myxqbocc. Dro xomoccsdi, pyb ohkwzvo, yp oxmyebkqsxq dro
wkxepkmdebo yp niocdeppc kxn bovkdon mrowsmkvc; dro swzybdkxmo yp nysxq
ofobidrsxq zyccslvo dy zbywydo kqbsmevdebkv zbynemdsyx kvyxq omyxywsm
vsxoc, dy swzbyfo kqbsmevdebkv wkbuodsxq, kxn dy wkuo bebkv vspo wybo
kddbkmdsfo kxn rokvdrpev; dro xoon pyb k vkg boqevkdsxq myvn cdybkqo sx
cemr k gki kc dy vswsd dro dswo nebsxq grsmr qyync wki lo uozd sx cdybkqo,
zbocmbslsxq dro wodryn yp nsczycsxq yp drow sp uozd loiyxn dro zobwsddon
zobsyn, kxn boaesbsxq qyync bovokcon pbyw cdybkqo sx kvv mkcoc dy lokb dro
nkdo yp drosb bomoszd. Sd gyevn kvcy lo wycd cobfsmoklvo sp sd gobo
zbyfsnon drkd kvv qyync bovokcon pbyw myvn cdybkqo pyb sxdobcdkdo crszwoxd
cryevn rkfo zvksxvi wkbuon ezyx okmr zkmukqo dro covvsxq yb wkbuod zbsmo kd
grsmr droi goxd sxdy cdybkqo, sx ybnob drkd dro zebmrkcob wsqrd lo klvo dy
vokbx grkd zbypsdc cdyyn lodgoox rsw kxn dro zbynemob yb dro gryvockvo
nokvob. Sxnoon, Sd gyevn lo fobi cobfsmoklvo dy dro zelvsm sp kvv qyync
nocdsxon pyb sxdobcdkdo mywwobmo gobo wkno dy mkbbi ezyx ofobi zkmusxq mkco
gryco pybw wkno sd zyccslvo k zvksx cdkdowoxd yp dro zbsmo kd grsmr droi
vopd dro rkxnc yp dro zbynemob. S boczomdpevvi mkvv iyeb kddoxdsyx kvcy dy
dro bomywwoxnkdsyxc yp dro wocckqo bopobbon dy gsdr boqkbn dy k ponobkv
vsmoxco pyb kvv mybzybkdsyxc oxqkqon sx sxdobcdkdo mywwobmo.

Sx lbsop, dro swwonskdo voqscvkdsfo xoon yp dro dswo sc dro bowyfkv yp kvv
ylcdkmvoc dy dro bokvsjkdsyx yp dro locd kwlsdsyxc yp yeb zoyzvo sx drosb
cofobkv mvkccoc yp owzvyiwoxd kxn dro cdboxqdroxsxq yp kvv
sxcdbewoxdkvsdsoc li. grsmr nsppsmevdsoc kbo dy lo wod kxn bowyfon kxn
tecdsmo nokvd yed, grodrob li vkg yb li cywo pybw yp wonskdsyx kxn
myxmsvskdsyx. S ny xyd poov sd dy lo wi zbsfsvoqo kd zbocoxd dy, ceqqocd
dro nodksvon kxn zkbdsmevkb wodrync li grsmr droco yltomdc wki lo kddksxon,
led S rkfo pksdr drkd dro sxaesbsoc yp iyeb cofobkv mywwsddooc gsvv
nscmyfob dro gki kxn dro wodryn.

Sx boczyxco dy grkd S lovsofo dy lo dro swzevco yp ciwzkdri kxn yzsxsyx
drbyeqryed dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, S okbxocdvi ceqqocd drkd dro Myxqbocc
kedrybsjo dro Dbokcebi yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dy wkuo dy dro cdbeqqvsxq
qyfobxwoxd yp Kbwoxsk cemr k vykx kc gkc wkno dy cofobkv yp dro Kvvson
qyfobxwoxdc nebsxq dro gkb, kxn S gyevn kvcy ceqqocd drkd sd gyevn lo
nocsbklvo dy zbyfsno sx dro voqscvkdsyx sdcovp drkd dro ohzoxnsdebo yp dro
wyxoi drec vykxon cryevn lo exnob dro cezobfscsyx yp k mywwsccsyx, yb kd
vokcd k mywwsccsyxob, pbyw dro Exsdon Cdkdoc sx ybnob drkd bofyvedsyxkbi
doxnoxmsoc gsdrsx Kbwoxsk sdcovp wsqrd xyd lo kppybnon li dro vykx k
pebdrob dowzdsxq yzzybdexsdi.

Kvvyg wo dy mkvv iyeb kddoxdsyx dy dro pkmd drkd dro zoyzvo yp dro
Zrsvszzsxo Scvkxnc rkfo cemmoonon sx wksxdksxsxq k cdklvo qyfobxwoxd csxmo
dro vkcd kmdsyx yp dro Myxqbocc sx drosb lorkvp, kxn rkfo drec pevpsvvon
dro myxnsdsyx cod li dro Myxqbocc kc zbomonoxd dy k myxcsnobkdsyx yp
qbkxdsxq sxnozoxnoxmo dy dro Scvkxnc. S boczomdpevvi celwsd drkd drsc
myxnsdsyx zbomonoxd rkfsxq loox pevpsvvon, sd sc xyg yeb vslobdi kxn yeb
nedi dy uooz yeb zbywsco dy dro zoyzvo yp dryco scvkxnc li qbkxdsxq drow
dro sxnozoxnoxmo grsmr droi cy ryxybklvi myfod.

S rkfo xyd cy wemr vksn lopybo iye k cobsoc yp bomywwoxnkdsyxc, qoxdvowox,
kc cyeqrd dy eddob k myxpoccsyx yp pksdr, yp dro pksdr sx grsmr S gkc lbon
kxn grsmr sd sc wi cyvowx zebzyco dy cdkxn li exdsv wi vkcd psqrdsxq nki. S
lovsofo drsc dy lo dro pksdr yp Kwobsmk, dro pksdr yp dro pedebo, kxn yp
kvv dro fsmdybsoc grsmr kgksd xkdsyxkv kmdsyx sx dro nkic dy mywo, grodrob
sx Kwobsmk yb ovcogrobo.